Kc  •<       •  x  Sv ' 
re*  ( 
*     ijw. ' 


^     - . 


.   i  S-I&A 


. 

-^£11 


THE 

LONDON  ART  OF  COOKERY, 

AND 

Domestic  Housekeepers  Complete  Assistant, 

UNITING 

THE  PRINCIPLES  OF 

ELEGANCE,  TASTE,  AND  ECONOMY; 

AND   ADAPTED 

TO  THE  VSE  OF  SERVANTS, 

AND 

FAMILIES. OF  EVERY  DESCRIPTION. 


CONTAINING 


Every  elegant  and  plain  Preparation  in  im- 
proved Modern  Cookery; 

Pickling,  Potting,  Salting,  Collaring,  and  Sous- 
ing > 

The  whole  Art  of  Confectionary,  and  making 
of  Jellies,  Jams,  Creams,  and  Ices; 


The  Preparation  of   Sugar*,  Candying,  and 
Preserving; 

Made  Wines,  Cordial-waters,  and  Malt-liquor*  j 
Bills  of  Fare  for  each  Month; 
Wood-cuts,     illustrative    of  Truising,   Carv- 
ing, &c. 


BY 

JOHN  FARLEY, 

,  FORMERLY  PRINCIPAL  COOK  AT  THE  LONDON  TAVERN- 


Cije  £toel£rt)  Ctrition. 


LONDON: 

PRINTED  FOR  SCATCHERD  AND  LETTEUMAN,  AVE-MARIA  LANE; 

C.  WILKIE  AND  J.  ROBINSON  ;  J.  WALKER  S  LONGMAN,  HURST,  REE8,  ORME,  AND 
BROWN  ;  CADELL  AND  DAVIES  ;  LACKINGTON,  ALLEN,  AND  CO.  ;  J.  RICHARDSON  ; 
DARTON  AND  HARVEY  ;  3.  NUNN  ;  B.  CROiBY  AND  CO.  J  T.  HUOHFS  }  GALE  AND 
CURTIS  ;  AND  CRADOCK  AND  JOY. 

1811- 


• 


'•"fc,{Ui.gh»B»  aud  ItuWI.-tiid,  Ht 
'  t,  U»ud«n. 


INTRODUCTION..... 1 

HINTS  ON  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY S 

CHAPTER  I.    Marketing 9 

II.     Trussing 19 

III.  Boiling 26 

IV.  Roasting 36 

V.     Baking 45 

VI.  Broiling 49 

VII.  Frying 54 

VIII.  Stews  and  Hashes 60 

IX.  Ragouts 7G 

X.  Fricandeaus..,.. 81 

XI.  Fricassees 82 

XII.     Made-dishes 134 

XIII.  Frugal-dishes 134 

XIV.  Sauces , 141 

XV.     Soups  and  Broths .,  159 

XVI.  Roots  and  Vegetables 175 

XVII.  Puddings isi 

XVIII.  Pies 199 

XIX.  Pancakes  and  Fritters , ,...,,. .'.,  218 

PART  II. 

CHAPTER  I.  Pickling , 2-25 

II.  Collaring 239 

III.  Potting 243 

IV.  Salting  and  Sousing 250 

V.  Garden-stuffs  and  Fruits., , ,  258 


vin 


CONTENTS. 


PART  III. 


CHAPTER  I.  Sugars 263 

II.  Tarts  and  Pufts * 265 

III.  Cakes 270 

IV.  Custards  and  Cheesecakes... 280 

V.  Creams  and  Jams 284 

VI.  Jellies  and  Syllabubs 290 

VII.  Preserving 298 

VIII.  Drying  and  Candying 307 

IX.  Ornaments  for  the  Table 313 

X.  Instructions  for  Carving 316 

PART  IV. 

CHAPTER  I.     Made  Wines 324 

II.     Cordial-waters 339 

III.     Malt-liquors 345 

APPENDIX. 

SECTION  I.  Considerations  on  Culinary  PoisoHs ....;..,.  36* 

II.  Bread,  Cakes,  Muffins,  &c....  367 

III.  Nourishment  for  the  Sick 371 

IV.  Necessary  Articles  for  Seafaring  Persons 376 

V.  General  Observations    on    the    Breeding  of 

Poultry 379 

CATALOGUE  OF  GARDEN-STUFFS,  POULTRY,  AND  FISH 383 

USEFUL  TABLES 387 

INDEX  .,,,,•,...,,..•.•,......,,,... 393 


PREFACE. 


V^OOKERY,  like  every  other  Art,  has  been  moving 
forward  to  Perfection  by  slow  Degrees;  and  yet 
daily  Improvements  are  still  making,  as  must  be  the 
Case  in  every  Art  depending  on  Fancy  and  Taste. 
From  the  many  Books  of  this  Kind  already  pub- 
lished, it  could  hardly  be  supposed  there  would  be 
occasion  for  another,  yet  we  flatter  ourselves,  that 
the  Readers  of  this  Work  will  find,  from  a  candid 
Perusal,  and  an  impartial  Comparison,  that  our 
Pretensions  to  the  Favours  of  the  Public  are  not  ill 
founded. 

The  Generality  of  Books  on  Cookery  are  grouped 
together,  without  Method  or  Order,  and  therefore 
rendered  intricate  and  bewildering;  even  the  Re- 
ceipts are  written  with  so  much  Carelessness  and 
Inaccuracy,  that  they  are  not  only  perplexing,  but 
frequently  unintelligible.  In  this  Work,  however, 


PREFACE. 

we  hope,  that  Perspicuity  and  Regularity  will  be 
seen  in  every  step  we  have  taken.  We  have  divided 
the  whole  Book  into  separate  Parts,  and  those  Parts 
into  Chapters;  so  that  our  Readers  have  only  to  look 
into  the  Contents,  and  they  will  there  find  at  one 
view,  the  whole  of  that  Branch  of  Cookery  they  may 
want  to  consult.  The  Utility  of  regularly  classing 
every  Thing  in  a  Book  of  this  Kind  is  too  obvious  to 
need  Arguments  lo  support  it. 

The  greatest  Care  and  Precaution  have  boon 
taken  to  admit  nothing  inelegant,  or  prejudicial  to 
the  Constitution,  in  any  of  the  Receipts ;  and  we 
have  not  only  given,  in  the  Appendix,  a  distinct 
Section  on  Culinary  Poisons,  but  have  also  in  dif- 
ferent Parts  of  the  Work  reminded  the  Cooks  of 
the  fatal  Consequences  of  not  keeping  their  Coppers 
and  Saucepans  properly  clean  and  tinned, 

As  Farley's  Cookery  is  intended  for  the  Use  of 
all  Ranks  in  general,  not  only  for  those  who  have 
attained  a  tolerable  Knowledge  of  Cookery,  but 
also  for  others  less  experienced,  .we  have  occasion- 
filly  given  the  most  simple  with  the  most  sumptuous 
dishes,  and  thereby  afforded  the  means  of  decorating 
the  Table  of  the  Peer,  or  the  M&hauic. 

The  various  Branches  of  Pastry  and  Confection- 
ary, comprising  Pies,  Puddings,  Cakes,  Custards, 


PREFACE.  VII 

Jams,  Creams,  Jellies,  Preserves,  Conserves,  Ices, 
and  all  the  other  numerous  and  elegant  Articles  of 
that  Class ;  as  well  as  the  Preparation  of  Pickles, 
the  Art  of  making  Wines,  Liqueurs,  and  Cordials, 
are  treated  under  distinct  Heads,  and  rendered 
plain,  easy,  and  familiar,  to  every  Capacity.  We 
shall  only  add,  that  neither  Labour,  Care,  nor  Ex- 
pense have  been  spared  to  make  this  Work  worthy 
of  the  Patronage  of  the  Public. 


iSCWn. 


I 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  JANUARY. 
FIRST  COURSE. 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  FEBRUARY 
FIRST  COURSE 


• 

SI 

ft 


SECOND  COURSE. 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  MARCH, 
FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  FEBRUARY. 
FIRST  COURSE 


• 


I 


SECOND  COURSE. 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  MARCH, 
FIRST  COURSE. 


1 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  APRIL. 
FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  MA 
FIRST  COURSE. 


VI 

8 
I 


I  r  V 

1 

w 

I 

yy 

^ 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  JUNE. 
FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


f 

c 


FARE  FOE  JULY. 
FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


J 
J 


rv 

J 


J-CT 

3 


AUGUST. 
FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  SEPTEMBER. 
FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


(ft 


/y/7?£  FOR  OCTOBER. 
FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


*} 


fjtt 

#} 
{# 

<*} 

<#• 

4) 
(* 

*) 

.* 

fo 

*£ 

y* 
«») 


*  ^fif 


. 

^-^^<8\^ 


{** 

*) 

(* 
*) 

{b 


OF  FARE  FOR  NOVEMBER. 
FIRST  COURSE. 


*»} 


SECOND  COURSE. 

\jheasant\ 


BILL  OF  FARE  FOR  DECEMBER 
FIRST  COURSE. 


SECOND  COURSE. 


THE 


LONDON  ART  OF  COOKERY. 


INTRODUCTION. 

AN  a  publication  like  the  present,  it  would  be  of 
little  utility  to  trace  the  origin  of  cookery;  nor  would 
it  be  easy  to  say  at  what  period  man  exchanged 
vegetable  for  animal  diet :  certain  it  is,  that  he  no 
sooner  began  to  feed  on. flesh,  fowl,  and  fish,  than 
seasonings  of  some  kind  became  requisite,  not  only 
to  render  such  food  more  pleasing  and  palatable, 
but  also  to  help  digestion  and  prevent  putrefaction. 
Of  these  seasonings,  salt  was  probably  the  first  dis- 
covered; though  some  are  inclined  to  think,  that 
savory  roots  and  herbs  were  previously  used.  Spices, 
however,  such  as  ginger,  cinnamon,  pepper,  cloves, 
and  nutmegs,  by  degrees  came  into  practice,  and 
the  whole  art  of  cookery  gradually  improved,  till  it 
reached  its  present  perfection. 

Boiling,  or  stewing,  seems  to  have  been  the  first 
mode  of, dressing;  toasting,  or  broiling,  succeeded 
next;  and  beyond  these,  no  improvements  were 
made  in  the  art  of  cookery  for  several  centuries. 
The  introduction  of  trade  and  commerce  into  Eu- 
rope, soon  made  us  acquainted  with  the  products  of 
other  countries;  and  rich  fruits  and  spices,  im- 

B 


11  INTRODUCTION. 

ported  from  the  most  remote  regions  of  the  globe 
were  soon  sought  after  with  avidity.  Cookery,  in- 
cluding pickling,  and  the  various  branches  of  con- 
fectionary, soon  became  an  art,  and  was  as  methodi- 
cally studied  as  the  more  polite  sciences.  A  regular 
apprenticeship  is  now  served  to  it;  and  the  profes- 
sors of  it  are  incorporated  by  charter,  as  forming 
one  of  the  livery  companies  of  London.  Since  then 
Cookery  must  be  considered  as  an  art,  we  shall  pro- 
ceed to  treat  of  its  different  branches  in  regular 
order ;  but  preface  our  directions,  by  some  useful 
hints  on  domestic  economy. 


1  o  every  mistress  of  a  family,  we  cannot  too  strenuously 
Recommend  the  superintendence  of  her  domestic  concerns,  the 
investigation  oP  all  accounts,  particularly  those  of  her  trades- 
men and  her  servants;  and  the  most  strict  scrutiny  into  the 
characters  of  those  she  may  admit  as  inmates  of  her  house. 
Amongst  the  minor  duties  inseparable  from  her  situation,  are, 
the  attention  to  her  storeroom,  and  linen  of  every  description. 
In  the  former,  should  be  a  selection  of  the  most  unperish^ 
able  stores,  of  which  description  are  groceries,  candles,  soap, 
starch,  &c. ;  and  of  the  latter,  no  more  should  be  delivered  to 
the  housekeeper,  than  are  absolutely  requisite  for  constant 
use  ;  and  of  these  a  correct  inventory  made,  as  a  check  upon 
the  housekeeper,  who  will  thereby  be  compelled  to  account 
for  every  deficiency. 

The  Housekeeper* 

SHOULD  take  her  orders  for  the  day,  early  in  the  morning  \ 
by  which  means  all  the  under-servants  will  have  sufficient 
time  to  perform  their  several  duties,  without  either  hurry  or 
neglect :  it  is  also  her  indispensable  duty,  not  only  to  see 
that  all  the  female  servants  perform  their  work  in  the  most 
perfect  manner ;  but  that,  in  the  discharge  of  it,  they  do  not 
waste  any  thing.  As  all  the  linen  in  constant  use  is  com- 
mitted to  her  charge,  she  should  see  that  it  is  neatly  mended 
if  torn  ;  and  should  take  care  that  it  is  not  heedlessly  torn  or 
unnecessarily  soiled  :  and  before  any  more  is  given  out,  that 
the  different  articles  already  used,  have  been  pat  in  their 
proper  places.  As  under-servants  are  ever  too  ready  to  con- 
sider coarse  cloths,  such  a.s  duste.s,  &,c.  of  little  value;  no 
more  should  be  given  them,  unless  they  produce  the  remains 
of  the  old  ones,  and  sufficiently  account  for  their  being  worn 
out.  As  she  will  have  the  care  of  the  stores  for  immediate 
consumption,  she  should  be  sparing  in  the  distribution  of 

B  2 


4  MINTS  ON  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY. 

them ;  particularly  groceries,  soap,  and  candles  :  the  former 
are  too  often  demanded  for  the  purpose  of  entertaining 
friends;  and  the  latter,  frequently  for  a  worse  purpose.  She 
should  daily  register  the  notes  of  the  butcher,  baker,  fish- 
monger, and  ot  ers ;  and  see  that  the  articles  specified  in 
those  notes,  are  actually  of  the  implied  weight  and  quality. 
As  the  housekeeper  has  more  confidence  placed  in  her  than 
any  other  servant,  of  course  her  responsibility  is  greater  ;  and 
she  cannot  do  better  than  consider  herself  as  the  faithful 
steward  of  her  master.  Her  bill  of  fare  should  contain  a  suf- 
ficient variety ;  and  the  different  articles  selected  snould,  when 
dressed,  be  so  placed  upon  the  table,  as  to  accord  with  each 
other,  thereby  forming  a  picture,  that,  by  pleasing  the  eye, 
may  excite  an  appetite. 

The  Cook 

WILL  be  immediately  under  the  inspection  of  the  house- 
keeper ;  but  it  is  her  province  to  dress  the  meat  according  to 
the  modern  costume,  and  afterwards  to  dish  it  up  in  an  ele- 
gant manner.  The  larder  must  be  particularly  attended  to, 
for  on  its  neatness,  the  keeping  of  the  meat,  poultry,  &c.  will 
very  much  depend.  The  dressers,  shelves,  &c.  must  be  well 
scoured,  and  the  floor  washed  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  and 
thoroughly  mopped  dry  :  for  want  of  this  precaution,  musti- 
ness  is  produced.  All  butcher's  meat  should  be  sent  in  before 
sun-rise  ;  but  as  it  is  almost  impossible  to  prevent  flies  from 
blowing  it,  the  whole  should  be  carefully  looked  over,  and 
wiped  clean  and  dry.  All  meat  intended  to  be  eaten  cold, 
shouloVbe  rather  over-done  in  summer ;  for  the  gravy  makes 
it  spoil :  roasted  meat  must  be  sprinkled  with  salt  before  taken 
from  the  fire.  Cold  meat  of  every  kind,  should  be  changed 
morning  and  evening  into  clean  and  dry  dishes.  Stews, 
sauces,  and  soups,  should  be  boiled  every  second  day  at  least 
in  summer,  to  prevent  fermentation.  Lardings  returned 
whole  to  the  kitchen,  should  be  covered  with  the  sheets  of 
bacon  that  covered  them  before  they  were  taken  out  of  the 
braise;  and  then  put  again  into  the  same  braise.  Tenderones 
of  lamb  and  veal,  ox  rumps,  beef  or  veal  olives,  roulards  of 
mutton  or  veal,  rump  of  beef,  and  every  other  thing  done  in 
braises,  should  be  carefully  attended  to ;  as  they  may  be  re- 
peatedly served  at  table,  with  the  same  elegance  as  at  first. 
Remember  never  to  overstock  the  larder.  For  the  care  of 
different  joints,  poultry,  £c. — See  Marketing. 

Very  much  will  depend  upon  the  care  and  economy  of  the 
cook  :  by  good  management,  she  may  be  the  means  of  saving 
a  large  sum  in  the  article  of  coals,  bv  carefully  reserving  the 
cinders  for  the  laundry.  As  much  very  valuable  china  is  an- 


HINTS  ON  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY.  5 

nually broken,  for  want  of  a  little  care;  she  will  do  well  to 
change  ail  the  best  dishes  for  common  ones,  as  soon  as  the 
dinner  is  sent  from  the  dining-room.  Respecting  her  culi- 
n.i rv  vessel,  i  hey  should  be  je\er  kept  with  the  greatest  clean- 
liness ;  and  fresh  tinned  whenever  they  may  want  it.  Tin 
meat-covers  are  soon  spoiled  if  not  wiped  dry  after  being 
u.>eJ,  and  they  may  be  restored  to  their  Conner  polish  without 
injurv,  bv  usi;tg  the  following  preparation  :  take  fine  whiting, 
ba-elv  moistened  with  olive  oil ;  with  this  and  a  piece  of  soft 
leather  rub  the  covers;  wipe  clean  with  a  soft  linen,  and 
lastly,  sprinkle  over  them  some  dr}T  whiting  in  fine  po\vder, 
and  polish  with  leather. 

The  Housemaid 

WILL  also  be  particularly  under  the  inspection  of  the  house- 
keeper; but  still  a  great  deal  will  depend  upon  her  own 
cleanliness  and  exertions  :  the  beds  not  in  use  should  be 
every  day  aired  by  shaking  t^em,  and  the  blankets  nicely 
folded  and  placed  between  the  bed  and  mattress:  the  curtains 
and  hangings  should  be  slightly  srmken  and  dusted  with  a 
proper  brush,  and  replaced  in  their  former  order.  Before 
sweeping  the  rooms,  tl>ey  should  be  sprinkled  with  tea-leaves, 
and  the  carpets  swept  with  a  proper  whisk-brush.  In  towns, 
carpets  are  very  liable  to  be  soiled  by  smoke,  dust,  &c.  in 
which  case,  the  following  application,  published  by  the  Society 
for  the  encouragement  of  Arts,  £c.  will  be  invariably  found 
to  remove  the  dirt,  £c.  For  every  gallon  of  w.,ter  intended 
to  be  used,  take  eight  raw  potatoes,  grate  them  into  fine 
pulp,  mix  them  with  the  water,  and  wash  the  carpet  slightly 
with  a  large  spunge  :  this  mixture  will  not  only  clean,  but 
restore  the  colour  of  carpets  to  their  former  beauty. 

For  removing  grease-spots  on  the  boards  — Apply  a  few  drops 
of  oil  of  turpentine,  rubbing  it  in  with  the  finger:  this  will 
dissolve  the  grease,  and  make  it  mix  with  the  soap  when 
washed. 

For  preventing  steel  and  iron  from  rusting. — Take  mutton 
suet,  melt  and  strain  it;  warm  the  steel,  or  iron;  nib  it  with 
the  melted  suet,  and  sprinkle  finely  powdered  hot  lime  over 
it:  or  take  two  pounds  of  unsalted  hogslard,  melt  it,  and  whilst 
warm,  add  as  much  black  lead  as  will  thicken  it;  rub  this  over 
the  iron  or  steel. 

For  taking:  rust  out  of  polished  grates,  fenders,  &V.— Apply 
olive  oil,  letting  it  remain  on  the  spot  for  forty-eight  hours  : 
powder  some  hot  or  unslackecl  lime,  sprinkle  it  over  the  place, 
and  rub  till  the  rust  disappear. 

For  taking  the  black  or  burnt  parts  out  of  polished  steel  bar*. — 
Boil  in  two- quarts  of  water,  one  pound  of  soft  soap,  till  re- 


6  HINTS  ON  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY. 

duced  to  one  quart:  this  when  cold  will  form  a  jelly;  of 
which  take  three  spoonsful,  and  mix  to  the  thickness  of  paste 
by  adding  powdered  rmery  :  rub  the  bars  with  some  of  this 
mixture  put  on  a  piece  of  clean  cloth,  and  polish  with  glasi 
paper. 

For  blacking  stoves. — -Take  blacklead  one  pound,  table 
beer  one  pint,  soft  soap  about  the  size  of  a  wa!  iut ;  boil  till 
the  soap  is  dissolved :  with  this  mixture  brush  over  the  stove, 
and  when  dry,  polish  with  a  common  stove  brush.  Or  take 
blacklead  one  pound,  water  a  pint  and  a  half,  common  gum 
one  ounce:  boil  till  the  gum  is  dissolved,  and  apply  it  as  in 
the  former  c.ise. 

For  blacking  stone  chimney-pieces. — Grind  together  oil  var- 
nish and  lamp  black,  add  spirits  of  turpentine,  till  reduced  to 
the  thickness  of  paint.  Having  previously  well  cleaned  the 
stone,  and  dried  it,  apply  a  coat  of  this  varnish  with  a  fine 
brush,  and  when  quite  dry  a  second  coat.  This  varnish  is 
usually  sold  under  the  name  of  Brunswick  blacking. 

For  taking  iron-moulds  cut  of  marble. — Drop  a  verv  small 
quantity  of  weak  oil  of  vitriol  on  the  spots,  rub  with  a  linen 
rag,  and  they  will  disappt-ar:  but  observe  immediately  to 
wash  the  part  with  soap  and  water.  As  marble  will  in  time 
become  yellow,  the  following  preparation  will  both- remove 
it  and  also  fresh  polish  it:  mix  unslacked  lime  with  strong 
soap-ley,  as  thick  as  batter;  lay  it  on  with  a  brush,  and  in 
two  months  time  wash  it  off  with  a  strong  lather  of  soap  and 
water:  the  polish  may  be  heightened  by  well  rubbing  with  a 
plean  hard  brush. 

The  Laundiymaid 

SHOULD  always  use  the  cinders  reserved  for  her  use  by  the 
cook,  as  they  will  answer  equally  well  with  coals;  arid  when 
burnt  either  in  the  ironing  stove  or  under  the  copper,  will 
give  an  intense  heat.  She  will  find  that  by  soaking  the 
clothes  over  night  in  soft  water,  that  they  will  wash  much 
more  easily  ;  especially  if  the  parts  most  soiled  be  slightly 
rubbed  with  soap.  The  best  laundresses  use  a  ley  made  by 
pouring  water  upon  wood-ashes,  and  straining  through  an 
hair-cloth  •  this  ley  not  only  saves  soap,  but  gives  a  beautiful 
whiteness  to  the  linen.  In  washing  flannels,  be  careful  never 
to  pour  boiling  water  upon  them,  as  it  will  thicken  them  ; 
but  take  the  flannels,  and  put  them  in  scalding  water,  which 
will  keep  them  thin.  Ink-stains,  fruit-stains,  and  iron-mould, 
are  easily  removed  by  using  the  essential  salt  of  lemons. 
Spirit  ot  salt  may  be  also  used  for  the  same  purpose ;  but  if 
the  part  -is  not  immediately  washed  with  soap  and  water,  the 
texture  of  the  linen  may  be  hurt  by  it.  In  getting  up  fine- 


HINTS  ON  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY.  7 

•things,  the  clear-starchers  use  gum-water ;  but  as  gum-arabic 
is  very  dear,  its  use  should  be  confined  to  the  finest  articles. 

The  Butler 

HAS,  in  most  situations,  nearly  as  great  responsibility  as  the 
housekeeper;  of  course,  like  her,  he  has  the  superintendence 
of  the  footmen,  and  he  should  be  particularly  careful  that 
the  table,  sideboard,  &c.  are  well  cleaned  and  rubbed ;  that 
the  glasses  and  plate  are  brilliant  and  unsullied ;  and  that 
both  the  disposition  of  the  table  and  sideboard  are  neat  and 
elegant.  For  cleaning  plate,  there  is  not  any  thing  equal  to 
rouge,  the  substance  used  for  that  purpose  by  the  silversmiths 
and  their  polishers :  it  may  be  had  at  Fenn's,  in  Newgate 
Street ;  and  at  Knight's,  in  Forster  Lane.  In  using  it,  a  very 
small  quantity  may  either  be  wetted  with  water,  and  slightly 
rubbed  over  the  plate  with  a  soft  spunge,  and  afterwards  po- 
lished with  soft  leather  :  or  it  may  be  mixed  with  olive  oil, 
and  use  the  leather.  The  cellar  should  be  ever  kept  with 
the  greatest  neatness  ;  and  it  will  be  highly  creditable  to  the 
butler,  if  a  regular  cellar-book  is  kept;  ty  means  of  which, 
his  master  will  easily  perceive  the  faithful  disposal  of  every 
bottle  consumed. — See  Wines  and  Beer. 

The  Footman 

WILL  be  under  the  control  of  the  butler,  and  it  will  be 
greatly  to  his  credit  if  every  thing  be  kept  in  the  neatest 
and  best  order.  The  decanters  are  apt  to  become  furred,  in 
which  case  they  may  be  effectually  cleansed  and  restored  to 
•their  brilliancy,  by  scraping  a  raw  potatoe  into  a  pint  of  water : 
with  this,  rinse  them,  aad  wash  it  out  with  clean  water.  An 
highly  polished  table  and  sideboard  should  be  the  foatman's 
pride  :  to  obtain  which,  the  Speenhausan  receipt  will  very 
much  contribute:  take  cold-drawn  linsed  oil,  two  quarts; 
alkanet-root  bruised,  two  ounces;  rose-pink,  one  ounce  :  put 
them  together  into  a  bottle,  let  them  stand  for  a  fortnight, 
shaking  the  bottle  three  or  four  times  a  day.  To  use  this 
oil,  the  table  must  be  first  washed  with  warm  vinegar,  and 
when  dry,  the  oil  rubbed  on  with  a  linen  cloth  ;  in  this  state 
it  should  remain  at  least  six  hours,  when  it  may  be  wiped  off 
.with  linen,  and  then  polished  with  a  linen  cloth.  Observe, 
you  must  never  use  a  woollen  cloth.  At  every  other  clean- 
ing, it  will  be  sufficient  to  use  the  oily  cloth,  and  polish  with 
a  dry  one.  Tables  rubbed  with  oil,  acquire  in  time  a  polish 
unattainable  by  any  other  means:  the  common  tables  at 
Speen  Hill  ?.re  a  proof  of  this.  But  as  this  oil  requires  .a 
constant  and  continued  use,  it  may  not  perhaps,  on  the  whole, 
be  as  well  liked  as  the  following:  take  four  ounces  of  bees- 
wax, and  half  an  ounce  of  white  rosin,  melt  them  in  one  ounce 
.of  olive  oil,  adding  rose-pink  to  make  it  of' a  beautiful  colour; 


8  MINTS  ON  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY. 

to  this  composition  add  as  much  spirit  of  turpentine  as  will 
make  it  of  the  thickness  of  honey.  Rub  it  on  the  table  with 
a  piece  of  linen  cloth,  and  polish  \\ith  a  clean  cloth.  The 
turpentine  will  fly  off,  consequently  a  little  more  must  be 
added,  as  it  grows  too  tliick.  Nothing  will  more  effectually 
clean  coats,  &c.  after  they  have  been  first  beaten  and  brushed, 
than  by  sprinkling  them  with  a  little  dry  sand,  and  brushing 
it  o.'Y  with  the  grain  of  the  cloth.  Grease  spots  may  be  re- 
moved by  scraping  upon  them  a  little  French  chalk,  rubbing 
it  in  well  with  the  finger,  and  afterwards  brushing  it  off:  or 
by  dropping  a  few  drops  of  spirit  of  turpentine  upon  it,  and 
rubbing  it  in  well.  The  best  blacking  for  shoes,  r  • -itdc  by 
dissolving  the  improved  blacking-cake  in  water,  wh  cii  i.  ^old 
by  Bailey,  in  Cockspur  Street.  And  the  following  is  an  inva- 
luable recipe  for  cleaning  boot  -tops :  take  half  an  ounce  of 
oil  of  vitriol,  two  ounces  of  water,  and  nvx  i;  ndi.;>iiy  ;n  a 
strong  earthen  pot ;  (if  not  mixed  gradually  w  ith  the  '.» ater, 
it  will  heat  too  much  and  crack  the  p^t).  With  uiis  liquid 
wash  the  boot-tops,  and  wipe  them  dry.  Huve  ready  the 
white  of  one  egg  weli  beaten  in  tlie  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
when  well  mixed,  add  half  a  pint  of  mi!k.  With  this  mix'ure, 
wash  over  the  boot-tops  :  when  dry,  wash  then.  •  ith  n,nk  and 
water,  wipe  them  quite  dry,  and  brush  them  with  a  ciean  hard 
brush. 

The  Coachman 

GFNERALLY  is  entrusted  by  his  master  to  purchase  the  hay, 
oats,  beans,  and  straw :  in  the  choice  of  all  these  he  cannot  be 
too  particular,  as  his  horses  cannot  thrive  upon  bad  coin  or 
hay,  nor  will  straw  of  a  bad  quality  last  nearly  as  long  as  good. 
In  case  of  the  illness  of  his  horses,  he  should  not  consult 
every  ignorant  farrier,  nor  undertake  the  cure  of  them  him. 
self.  It  will  be  less  expense  to  take  the  advice  of  a  veteri- 
nary surgeon.  The  varnish  of  carriages  becomes,  after  a  little 
use,  rather  dull,  even  by  the  best  care :  in  this  case  it  may  be 
much  heightened  by  using  a  little  fine  tripoli,  moistened  wilh 
olive  oil,  and  put  upon  soft  leather  :  with  this  let  the  carriage 
be  rubbed  and  then  wiped  off,  and  polish  off  with  olive  oil 
and  a  clean  leather.  The  harness  should  be  oiled  in  the  in- 
side, and  blacked  on  the  outside :  by  this  means  it  will  always 
look  well,  and  never  crack:  the  plate  maybe  cleaned  with;* 
fine  whiting. 

The  Groom 

MAY  always  easily  clean  his  stirrups,  bits,  &c.  by  rubbing 
them  over-night  with  olive  oil,  and  by  sprinkling  hot  lime  on 
them  in  the  morning :  rub  this  off  with  a  soft  leather.  The 
saddle  may  be  cleaned  by  the  composition  nlready  directed 
for  boot-tops. 


CHAPTER  1. 


MARKETING. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  THE  PROPER  CHOICE  OF  DIFFERENT 
KINDS  OF  PROVISIONS. 


IN  the  choice  of  ox-beef,  observe,  that,  if  the  meat  is 
young,  it  will  have  a  fine  smooth  open  grain,  of  a  pleasing 
carnation  reel,  and  feel  tender  ;  the  fat  must  be  rather  white 
than  yellow  ;  for  when  it  is  quite  yellow,  the  meat  is  seldom 
good  ;  the  suet  must  be  perfectly  white.  The  grain  of  cow- 
beef  is  closer,  the  fat  whiter  than  that  of  ox-beef,  but  the 
lean  has  not  so  bright  a  red.  The  grain  of  bull-beef  is  still 
closer,  the  fat  hard  and  skinny,  the  lean  of  a  deep  red,  and 
has  a  stronger  smell  than  either  cow  or  ox-beef. 


THE  JOINTS  IN  THE  OX  ARE  I 

Sirloin     -  - 

Rump    -         -         -         -         - 

Edge-bone      - 

Buttock  - 

Mouse  ditto      -  - 

Veiny-piece     - 

Thick-flank     - 

Thin,  ditto 

Leg  - 

Fore-rib:  containing  five  ribs    - 

"Middle-rib:  containing  four  ribs 

Chuck  :  containing  three  ribs 


Leg-of-mutton-piece,or  shoulder  1  3 


Brisket  - 

Clod       -         -       ,- 

Neck  or  sticking-piece     - 

Shin 

Cheek     - 


-  14 

-  15 

-  16 

-  17 

-  18 


CARE  OF  THE  DIFFERENT  JOINTS. 

Sirloin. — Tn  this  the  flies  are  apt  to  blow  under  the  loose 
side  of  the  fat :  wipe  clean  and  dry,  sprinkle  the  fat  with 
salt;  take  out  the  pipe  running  along  the  chine-bone,  and 
rub  the  place  and  the  bone  with  salt ;  take  out  the  kernel  at 


10 


MARKETING. 


the  thick  end,  fill  the  hole  with  salt ;  and  take  out  the  pith, 
and  rub  the  place  with  salt. 

Rump. — Take  out  the  kernel  left  in  the  fat,  filling  the  hole 
with  salt ;  and  sprinkle  salt  slightly  over  the  whole. 

Ribs. — Cutoff  the  piece  of  skirt;  nub  the  chine-bone,  the 
inside  of  the  ribs,  and  the  tops  of  the  ribs  with  salt.  The 
above,  should  be  all  hung  up. 

Hound  or  buttock. — Take  out  the  kernel  called  the  Pope's 
eye,  and  the  other  in  thick  fat.  Without  this  precaution,  no 
quantity  of  salt-will  preserve  it  in  summer. 

Thick-flank. — Take  out  the  kernel  in  the  middle  of  the  fat. 

Edge  or  aitch-bone. — Take  out  the- kernel  where  the  rump 
is  cut  off. 

Brisket. — Joint  the  bones,  to  let  in  the  salt. 

Mutton. 

IF  you  squeeze  young  mutton  with  your  fingers,  it  will  feel 
very  tender;  but  if  it  be  old,  it  will  feel  hard  and  continue 
wrinkled,  and  the  fat  will  be  fibrous  and  clammy.  The  grain 
of  ram  mutton  is  close,  the  flesh  is  of  a  deep  red,  and  the  fat 
is  spongy  and  yellow.  The  flesh  of  ewe  mutton  is  paler  than 
that  of  the  wether,  and  the  grain  is  closer.  Most  people  give 
the  preference  to  short-shanked  mutton. 


THE  JOINTS  IN  THE  SHEEP  ARE: 


Leg 

Loin,  best  end 

Ditto,  chump  ditto 

Neck,  best  ditto 

Ditto,  scrag  ditto 

Shoulder    - 

Breast     - 

Chine,  is  two  loins. 

Saddle,  is  two  necks. 


CARE  OF  THE  DIFFERENT  JOINTS. 

Leg. — Take  out  the  kernel  from  the  fat  of  the  upper  part ; 
fill  ttie  hole  with  salt,  and  sprinkle  salt  slightly  over  the  whole 
in  summer. 

Shoulder. — Rub  the  inside  well  with  salt. 

Chine. — Take  out  the  kernel  near  the  tail,  rub  the  place 


MARKETING. 


11 


with  salt;  take  out  the  kidney-fat  quite  clean,  cut  the  pipe 
running  along  the  back-bone,  and  rub  the  inside  with  salt. 

Neck. — Wipe  quite  dry  with  a  cloth;  trim  the  scrag; 
sprinkle  the  chine-bone  and  the  inside  of  the  ribs  with  salt. 

Breast. — Cut  out  the  skirt,  and  sprinkle  both  sides  with 
salt.  These  joints  are  all  to  be  hung,  and  these  directions  are 
chiefly  applicable  to  summer. 

Lamb. 

THE  head  of  a  lamb  is  good,  if  the  eyes  are  bright  and 
plump;  but  if  they  are  sunk  and  wrinkled,  it  is  stale.  If  the 
vein  in  the  neck  of  the  fore-quarter  appear  of  a  fine  blue,  it 
is  fresh  ;  but  if  it  be  green  or  yellow,  you  may  be  sure  it  is 
stale.  In  the  hind  quarter,  if  there  be  a  faint  disagreeable 
smell  near  the  kidney,  or  if  the  knuckle  is  very  limber,  it  is 
not  good. 

Lamb  is  generally  cut  in  quarters — if  divided  into  joints, 
observe  the  same  rules  as  those  for  mutton. 

Veal. 

THE  Mesh  of  a  co\v-calf  is  whiter  than  that  of  a  bull,  but 
the  flesh  is  not  so  firm ;  the  fillet  of  the  former  is  generally 
preferred,  on  account  of  the  udder;  if  the  head  is  fresh,  the 
eyes  will  be  plump;  but  if  stale,  they  will  be  sunk  and  wrink- 
led. If  the  vein  in  the  shoulder  is  not  of  a  bright  red,  the  meat 
is  not  fresh :  and  if  there  are  any  green  or  yellow  spots  in  it,  it 
is  very  bad.  A  good  neck  an:J  breast  will  be  white  and  dry; 
but  if  they  are  clammy,  and  look  green  or  yellow  at  the  upper 
end,  they  are  stale.  The  kidney  is  the  soonest  apt  to  taint  in 
the  loin,  and  if  it  is  stale,  it  will  be  soft  and  slimy.  .A  leg  is 
good  if  it  be  firm  and  white  ;  but  bad  if  it  is  limber,  and  the 
flesh  flabby,  with  green  or  yellow  spots. 


THE  JOINTS-  IN   A  CALF  ARE  C 

Loin,  best  end  - 
Ditto,  chump  ditto 
Filler      - 

Hind-knuckle  - 

Fore-kn"ck!e    - 
Neck,  best  end  -       - 
Ditto,  scrag  ditto 
Blade-bone .     -         - 
Breast,  best  end 
Ditto,  brisket  ditto    -       - 


12 


MARKETING. 


CARE  OF  THE  DIFFERENT  JOINTS. 

Leg. — Wipe  the  udder  perfectly  drv  :  take  out  the  skewer 
which  fastens  down  the  udder,  a-  d  rub  t.Mj  hole  with  s<ilt ; 
and  take  out  the  kernel  from  the  tincl;  fat. 

Loin. — Cut  out  the  pipe  running  along  the  chine-bone ; 
wipe  dry  with  a  do'h;  examine  the  kidney  of  tiie  loose  side, 
wipe  dry;  and  having  taken  out  the  kernel  in  the  inside  of 
the  chump,  sprinkle  the  whole  over  slightlv  with  salt. 

Neck. — Cut  out  the  pipe  running  along  the  chine-bone  ; 
wipe  the  chine  and  the  inside  of  the  ribs  very  dry. and  slightly 
sprinkle  with  salt. 

Breast. — Cut  off  the  skirt  on  the  inside,  rub  dry,  and 
sprinkle  with  salt. 

Pork. 

MEASLY  pork  is  very  dangerous  to  eat ;  but  this  state  of  it 
is  eas-iy  discovered,  by  the  tat  being  full  of  little  kernels.  If 
it  is  young  the  lean  will  break  on  beiug  pinched,  and  the  skin 
will  dent,  by  nipping  it  with  the  fingers:  the  fat,  like  lard, 
will  be  soft  and  pulpy.  If  the  rind  is  thick,  rough,  and  can- 
not be  nipped  with  the  fingers,  it  is  old.  It  the  flesh  is  cool 
and  smooth,  it  is  fresh  ;  but  if  it  is  clammy,  it  is  tainted ;  and, 
in  this  case,  the  knuckle  part  will  always  be  the  worst.  Ob- 
serve, a  thin  rind  is  always  best. 


THE  JOINTS  IN  A  PIG  ARE  : 


Theaparerib  -     - 
Hand    -       - 
Beily  or  spring    - 
Fore-loin 
Hind-loin 
Leg     - 


Pork  intended  for  roasting,  should  be  always  previously 
sprinkled  with  salt,  as  it  eats  with  much  more  relish. 

Hams. 

THOSE  are  the  best  which  have  the  shortest  shank.     If  you 
put  a  knife  under  the  bone  of  a  ham,  and  if  it  come  out  clean, 


MARKETING. 


13 


and  smell  well,  it  is  good ;  but  if  it  is  danbed  and  smeared, 
and  has  a  disagreeable  smell,  be  sure  not  to  buy  it. 

Bacon. 

IF  bacon  is  good,  the  fat  will  feel  oilv,  and  look  white,  and 
the  lean  will  be  of  a  good  colour;  and  SUCK  close  to  the  bone ; 
but  it  is,  or  will  be  rusty  very  soon,  if  ri  ere  are  anv  yeilow 
streaks  in  the  lean.  The  rind  of  y  oung  bacon  is  Always  thin  j 
but  thick,  if  old. 

Brawn. 

THE  rind  of  old  brawn  is  thick  and  hard  ;  but  young,  if 
moderate.  7'he  rind  and  fat  of  barrow  and  sow  brawn  are 
very  tender. 

Venison. 

THE  fat  of  venison  must,  in  a  great  measure,  determine 
your  choice  of  it.  If  the  fat  is  thick,  bright,  and  dear,  the 
clefts  smooth  and  close,  it  is  young  ;  but  a  very  wide  tough 
cleft,  shows  it  is  old.  Venison  will  first  change  at  the 
haunches  and  shoulders :  run  in  a  knife,  and  you  will  judge 
of  its  newness  or  staleness,  by  its  sweet  or  rank  smell.  If  it  is 
tainted,  it  will  look  greenish  or  inclining  to  be  very  black. 


THE  JOINTS  IN  A  DEER  ARE  : 


Haunch 
Neck  - 
Shoulder 
Breast    - 


Rub  the  different  joints  till  perfectly  dry;  wipe  over  with 
a  fresh  dry  cloth  ;  and  sprinkle  over  the  whole,  a  composition 
of  three  parts  of  pepper  and  one  of  salt.  Observe  to  take 
the  kernel  out  of  the  haunch,  as  already  directed  for  mutton. 

Turkeys. 

IF  acock  turkey  is  young-,  it  will  have  a  smooth  black  leg, 
with  a  short  spur;  the  eyes  will  be  full  and  bright,  and  the 
feet  limber  and  moist ;  but  you  must  carefully  observe,  that  the 
spurs  are  not  cut  or  scraped  to  deceive  you.  When  a  turkey 
is  stale,  the  feet  are  dry  and  the  eyes  sunk.  The  same  rule 


14  MARKETING. 

will  determine  whether  a  hen-turkey  be  fresh  or  stale,  young 
or  old;  with  this  difference,  that  if  old,  her  legs  will  be  rough 
and  red  ;  if  with  egg,  the  vent  will  be  soft  and  open  ;  but  if 
she  have  no  eggs,  the  vent  will  be  hard. 

Cocks  and  Hens. 

THE  spurs  of  a  young  cock  are  short ;  -but  the  same  pre- 
caution will  be  as  necessary  here,  in  that  point,  as  just  ob- 
served in  Ihe  choice  of  turkeys.  Their  vents  will  be  open,  if 
stale  ;  but  close  and  hard,  if  fresh.  Hens  are  always  best 
when  full  of  eggs,  and  just  before  they  begin  to  lay.  The 
combs  and  legs  of  an  old  hen  are  rough  ;  but  smooth  when 
young.  The  comb  of  a  good  capon  is  very  pale,  its  breast  is 
peculiarly  fat,  and  it  has  a  thick  belly,  and  a  large  rump. 

Geese.  ' 

A  YELLOW  bill  and  feet,  with  but  few  hairs  upon  them,  are 
the  mark  of  a  young  goose,  but  these  are  red  when  old.  The 
feet  will  be  limber,  if  fresh,  but  stiff  and  dry  if  old.  Green 
geese  are  in  season  from  May  or  June,  till  they  are  three 
months  old.  A  stubble  goose  will  be  good  till  five  or  six 
months  old,  and  should  be  picked  dry;  but  green  geese 
should  be  scalded.  The  same  rules  will  hold  good  for  wild 
geese,  with  respect  to  their  being  young  or  old. 

Ducks. 

THE  legs  of  a  fresh-killed  duck  are  limber  ;  and  if  it  is  fat, 
its  belly  wiil  be  hard  and  thick.  The  feet  of  a  stale  duck  are 
dry  and  stiff.  The  feet  of  a  tame  duck  are  inclining  to  a 
duSlcy  yellow,  and  are  thick.  The  feet  of  a  wild  duck  are 
smaller  than  a  tame  one,  and  are  of  a  reddish  colour.  Ducks 
must  be  picked  dry  ;  but  ducklings  should  be  scalded. 

Pheasants. 

THESE  very  beautiful  birds  are  of  the  English  cock  and. 
hen  kind,  and  are  of  a  fine  flavour.  The  cock  has  spurs, 
which  the  hen  has  not,  and  the  hen  is  most  valued  when  with 
egg.  The  spurs  of  a  young  cock  pheasant  are  short  and 
blunt,  or  round  ;  but  if  old,  they  are  long  and  sharp.  If  the 
vent  of  the  hen  be  open  and  green,  she  is  stale  ;  and  when 
rubbed  hard  with  the  finger,  the  skin  will  peel :  if  with  egg, 
the  vent  will  be  soft. 

Woodcocks. 

A  WOODCOCK  is  a  bird  of  passage,  and  is  found  with  us  only 
in  the  winter.  They  are  best  about  a  fortnight  or  three  week» 


MARKETING.  15 

after  their  first  appearance,  when  they  have  rested  after  their 
Jong  passage  over  the  ocean.  If  fat,  they  will  feel  firm  and 
thick,  which  is  a  proof  of  their  good  condition.  Their  vent 
will  be  also  thick  and  hard,  and  a  vein  of  fat  will  run  by  the 
side  of  the  breast ;  but  a  lean  one  will  feel  thin  in  the  vent. 
If  newly  killed,  its  feet  will  be  limber,  and  the  head  and 
throat  clean  ;  but  the  contrary,  if  stale. 

Partridges. 

AUTUMN  is  the  season  for  partridges,  when,  if  young,  the 
legs  will  be  yellowish,  and  the  bill  of  a  dark  colour.  If  they 
are  fresh,  the  vent  will  be  firm  ;  but  if  stale,  it  will  look  green- 
ish, and  the  skin  will  peel  when  rubbed  with  the  finger.  If 
old,  the  bill  will  be. white,  and  the  legs  blue. 

Bustards. 

THE  same  rules  given  for  the  choice  of  the  turkey,  will 
hold  good  with  respect  to  this  curious  bird. 

Pigeons. 

THESE  birds  are  full  and  fat  at  the  vent,  and  limber-footed, 
when  new ;  but  if  the  toes  are  harsh,  the  vent  loose,  open, 
and  green,  they  are  stale.  If  old,  their  legs  will  be  large  and 
red.  The  tame  pigeon  is  preferable  to  the  wild,  and  should 
be  large  in  the  body,  fat  and  tender ;  but  the  wild  pigeon  is 
not  so  fat.  Wood  pigeons  are  larger  than  wild  pigeons,  but 
in  other  respects  like  them.  The  same  rules  will  hold  good 
in  the  choice  of  the  plover,  fieldfare,  thrush,  lark,  black- 
bird, &c. 

Hares. 

BOTH  the  age  and  freshness  of  a  hare  are  to  be  considered 
in  the  choice  of  it.  When  old,  the  claws  are  blunt  and  rug- 
ged, the  ears  dry  and  tough,  and  the  cleft  wide  and  large; 
but  on  the  contrary,  if  the  claws  are  smooth  and  sharp,  the 
ears  tear  easily,  and  the  cleft  in  the  lip  is  not  much  spread,  it 
is  young.  The  body  will  be  stiff,  and  the  flesh  pale,  if  newly 
killed ;  but  if  the  flesh  is  turning  black,  and  the  body  limber, 
it  is  stale;  though  hares  are  not  always  considered  as  the  worse 
for  being  kept  till  they  smell  a  little.  The  principal  distinc- 
tion between  a  hare  and  a  leveret,  is,  that  the  leveret  should 
have  a  knob,  or  small  bone,  near  the  foot,  on  its  foreleg,  which 
a  hare  has  not. 

Rabbits. 

THE  claws  of  an  old  rabbit  are  very  rough  and  long,  and 
grey  hairs  are  intermixed  with  the  wool ;  but  the  wool  and 


16  MARKETING. 

claws  are  smooth,  when  young.  If  stale,  it  will  be  limber,  and 
the  flesh  will  look  bluish,  with  a  kinJ  of  slime  upon  it;  but  it 
will  be  stiff,  and  the  flesh  white  and  dry,  if  fresh. 

fish. 

THE  general  rules  for  discovering  whether  fish  a;  ';esh  or 
stale,  are  by  observing  the  colour  of  their  gills,  whic  hould 
be  of  a  lively  red  ;  whether  they  are  hard  or  easy  to  be  open- 
ed, the  standing  out  or  sinking  in  of  their  eyes,  the  r  ^ns 
being  st'ff  or  limber,  or  by  smelling  to  their  gills  F  sii  taken 
in  running  water  are  always  better  than  those  taken  from 
ponds. 

Turbot. 

IF  a  turbot  is  g  "od,  it  will  be  thick  and  plump,  and  the 
belly  of  a  yellowish  white;  but  they  are  not  good,  if  they 
appear  thin  and  bluish.  Turbot  are  in  season  the  greater 
part  of  the  summer,  and  are  generally  caught  in  the  German 
and  British  Ocean. 

Soles. 

GOOD  soles  are  thick  and  firm,  and  the  belly  of  a  fine 
cream-colour ;  but  they  are  not  good,  if  they  are  flabby, 
or  incline  to  a  bluish  white.  Midsummer  is  their  principal 
season. 

Lobsters. 

IF^  lobster  is  fresh,  the  tail  will  be  stiff',  and  pull  up  with 
a  spring;  but  if  stale,  the  tail  will  be  flabby,  and  have  no 
spring  in  it.  This  rule,  however,  concerns- lobsters  that  are 
boiled ;  and  it  is  much  better  to  buy  them  alive,  and  boil 
them  yourself,  taking  cave  that  they  are  not  spent  by  too  long 
keeping.  If  they  have  not  been  long  taken,  the  claws  will 
have  a  quick  and  strong  motion  upon  squeezing  the  eyes, 
and  the  heaviest  are  esteemed  the  best.  '\  he  cock-lobster  is 
known  by  the  narrow  back  part  of  his  tail.  The  two  upper- 
most fins  within  his  tail  arestiflFand  hard  ;  but  those  of  the 
hen  are  soft,  and  the  tail  broader.  The  male,  though  gene- 
rally smaller  than  the  female,  has  the  higher  flavour,  the  flesh 
firmer,  and  the  body  of  a  redder  colour,  when  boiled. 

Sturgeon. 

THE  flesh  of  a  good  sturgeon  is  very  white,  with  a  few 
blue  veins,  the  grain  even,  the  skin  tender,  good-coloured, 
and  soft.  All  the  veins  and  gristles  should  be  blue  ;  for  when 
these  are  brown  or  yellow,  the  skin  harsh,  tough,  and  dry,  the 


MARKETING.  If 

fish  is  bad.  It  has  a  pleasant  smell  when  good,  but  a  very 
disagreeable  one  when  bad.  It  should  also  cut  firm  without 
crumbling.  The  females  are  as  full  of  roe  as  our  carp,  which 
is  taken  out  and  spread  upon  a  table,  beat  flat,  and  sprinkled 
with  salt ;  it  is  then  dried  in  the  air  and  sun,  and  afterwards 
in  ovens:  it  should  be  of  a  reddish  brown  colour,  and 
very  dry.  This  is  called  caviare,  and  is  eaten  with  oil  and 
vinegar. 

Cod. 

A  COD  should  be  very  thick  at  the  neck,  the  flesh  very  white 
and  firm,  and  of  a  bright  clear  colour,  and  the  gills  red. 
When  they  are  flabby,  they  are  not  good.  They  are  in 
season  from  Christmas  to  Lady-day. 

Skate. 

THIS  fish  should  be  very' white  and  thick.  When  they 
are  too  fresh,  they  eat  tough  ;  and  if  stale,  they  have  a  very 
disagreeable  smell :  so  that  some  judgment  is  required  to  dress 
them  in  proper  time. 

Herrings. 

THE  gills  of  a  fresh  herring  are  of  a  fine  red,  their  eyes 
full,  and  the  whole  fish  stiff  and  very  bright ;  but  if  the  gills 
are  of  a  faint  colour,  the  fish  limber  and  wrinkled,  they  are 
bad.  The  goodness  of  pickled  herrings  is  known  by  their 
being  fat,  fleshy,  and  white.  Good  red  herrings  are  large, 
firm,  and  dry.  They  should  be  full  of  roe  or  milt,  and  the 
outside  of  them  of  a  fine  yellow. 

*  Trout. 

ALL  the  kinds  of  this  fine  fresh-water  fish  are  excellent : 
but  the  best  are  those  that  are  red  and  yellow.  The  female 
are  most  in  esteem,  and  are  known  by  having  a  smaller  head 
and  deeper  body  than  the  male.  They  are  high  in  season 
the  latter  end  of  June  ;  and  their  freshness  may  be  known  by 
the  rule  we  have  already  laid  down  for  that  purpose,  con- 
cerning other  fish. 

Tench. 

THIS  is  also  a  fresh-water  fish,  and  is  in  season  in  July, 
August,  and  September.  This  fish  should  be  dressed  alive  ; 
but  if  they  be  dead,  examine  their  gills,  which  should  be  red, 
and  hard  to  open,  the  eyes  bright,  and  the  body  firm  and 
stiff7,  if  fresh.  Some  are  covered  with  a  slimy  matter,  which, 
if  clear  and  bright,  is  a  good  sign. 

c 


18  MARKETING. 

Salmon. 

THE  flesh  of  salmon,  when  new,  is  of  a  fine  red,  and  par- 
ticularly so  at  the  gills  ;  the  scales  should  be  bright,  and  the 
fish  very  stiff.  The  spring  is  the  season  for  this  fish ;  but 
whether  that  caught  in  the  Thames,  or  the  Severn,  be  best,  is 
a  matter  of  some  dispute. 

Smelts. 

WHEN  perfectly  fresh  they  are  of  a  fine  silver  hue, 
very  firm,  and  have  an  agreeable  smell,  resembling  that  of  a 
cucumber. 

Eels. 

THE  Thames  silver  eel  is  generally  the  most  esteemed ; 
and  the  worst  are  those  brought  by  the  Dutch,  and  sold  at 
Billingsgate  market.  They  should  be  dressed  alive ;  and  they 
are  always  in  season?  except  during  the  hot  summer  months. 

Flounders. 

THIS  fish  is  found  in  the  sea  as  well  as  rivers,  and  should 
be  dressed  alive.  They  are  in  season  from  January  to  March, 
and  from  July  to  September.  When  fresh,  they  are  stiff', 
their  eyes  bright  and  full,  and  their  bodies  thick. 

Oysters. 

THE  Colchester,  Pyfleet,  and  Milford  oysters,  are  esteemed 
the  best:  though  the  native  Milton  are  reckoned  very  good, 
being  the  fattest  and  whitest.  They  are  known  to  be  alive 
and  vigorous  when  they  close  fast  upon  the  knife,  and  let  go 
as  soon  as  they  are  wounded  in  the  body. 

Prawns  and  Shrimps. 

THEY  have  an  excellent  smell  when  in  perfection  ;  are  firm 
and  stiff,  and  their  tails  turn  stiffly  inwards.  Their  colour  is 
very  bright,  when  fresh;  but  when  stale,  their  tails  grow 
Umber,  the  brightness  of  their  colour  goes  off,  and  they  be- 
come pale  and  clammy. 

Butter. 

IN  buying  of  butter,  you  must  not  trust  to  the  taste  the 
seller  gives  you,  lest  he  give  you  a  taste  of  one  lump,  and  sell 
you  another.  In  choosing  salt  butter,  trust  rather  to  your 
smell  than  taste,  by  putting  a  knife  into  it,  anil  applying  it  to 
your  nose.  If  the  butter  be  in  a  cask,  have  it  unhooped,  and 
thrust  in  your  knife,  between  the  staves,  into  the  middle  of 
it ;  for  the  top  of  the  cask  is  sometimes  better  butter  than  the 
middle,  owing  to  artful  package. 


TRUSSING.  19 

Cheese. 

OBSERVE  the  coat  of  your  cheese  before  you  purchase  it; 
for  if  it  be  old,  with  a  rough  and  ragged  coat,  or  dry  at  top, 
you  may  expect  to  find  little  worms  or  mites  in  it.  If  it  is 
moist,  spongy,  or  full  of  holes,  it  will  give  reason  to  suspect 
that  it  is  maggoty.  Whenever  you  perceive  any  perished 
places  on  the  outside,  be  sure  to  probe  to  the  bottom  of 
them ;  for,  though  the  hole  in  the  coat  may  be  but  small,  the 
perished  part  within  may  be  considerable. 

Eggs. 

To  judge  properly  of  an  egg,  put  the  greater  end  to  your 
tongue,  and  if  it  feel  warm  it  is  new ;  but  if  cold,  it  is  stale  ; 
and  according  to  the  degree  of  heat  or  cold  there  is  in  the  egg, 
you  will  judge  of  its  staleness  or  newness.  AnotrTer  method 
is,  hold  it  up  against  the  sun  or  candle,  and  if  the  yolk  appear 
round  and  the  white  clear  and  fair,  it  is  a  mark  of  goodness ; 
but  if  the  yolk  be  broken,  and  the  white  cloudy  or  muddy, 
the  egg  is  a  bad  one.  Some  people,  in  order  to  try  the  good- 
ness of  an  egg,  put  it  into  a  pan  of  Cold  water :  the  fresher  it 
is,  the  sooner  it  will  sink  to  the  bottom  ;  but  if  it  be  addled  or 
rotten,  it  will  swim  on  the  surface  of  the  water.  The  best 
method  of  preserving  eggs  is  to  keep  them  in  meal  or  bran ; 
though  some  place  them  in  wood-ashes,  with  their  small  end 
downwards.  -When  necessity  obliges  you  to  keep  them  for 
any  length  of  time,  the  best  way  will  be  to  bury  them  in  salt, 
which  will  preserve  them  in  almost  any  climate ;  but  the 
sooner  an  egg  is  used,  the  better  it  will  be. 


CHAPTER  II. 
DIRECTIONS  FOR  TRUSSING. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 


HOUGH  the  London  poulterers  truss  every  thing  before  they 
nd  it  home,  yet  it  is  absolutely  necessary  that  every  COOK 


T. 

send 

should  know  how  to  perform  this  business  properly,  as  it 
frequently  happens  that  families  take  their  cooks  with  them 
into  the  country,  where  they  are  obliged  to  draw  and  truss  all 
kinds  of  poultry  and  game  themselves.  Let  them  therefore 
be  careful  to  attend  to  this  general  rule  ;  take  care  that 'all  the 
stubs  are  perfectly  removed  ;  and  when  they  draw  any  kind 

c  2 


20  TRUSSING. 


of  poultry  or  game,  they  must  be  very  particular  not  to  break 
the  gall,  because  it  will  give  the  bird  a  bitter  and  disagree- 
able flavour,  which  neither  washing  nor  wiping  will  be  able  to 
remove.  We  shall  now  proceed  to  particular  rules. 

Turkeys. 


WHEN  you  have  properly  picked  your  turkey,  break  the 
kg-bone  close  to  the  foot,  and  draw  out  the  strings  from  the 
thigh,  for  Vhich  purpose  you  must  put  it  on  a  hook  fastened 
against  the  wall.     Cut  off  the  neck  close  to  the  back  ;  but  be 
careful  to  leave  the  orop  skin  sufficiently  long  to  turn  over  to 
the  back.     Then  proceed  to  take  out  the  crop,  and  loosen 
the  liver  and  gut  at  the  throat  end  with  your  middle  finger. 
Then  cut  off  the  vent,  and  take  out  the  gut.     With  a  crooked 
sharp-pointed  iron  pull  out  the  gizzard,  and  the  liver  will  soon 
follow.     Be  careful,  however,  not  to  break  the  gall.     With  a 
wet  cloth  wipe  out  the  inside  perfectly  clean.     With  a  large 
knife  cut  the  breast-bone  through  on  each  side  close  to  the 
back,  and  draw  the  legs  close  to  the  crop.     Then   put  a 
cloth  on  the  breast,  and  beat  the  high  bone  down  with  a  rolU 
ing-pin  till  it  lies  flat.     If  the  turkey  is  to  be  trussed  for  boil- 
ing cut  the  legs  off;  then  put  your  middle  finger  into  the  in- 
side, raise  the  skin  of  the  legs,  and  put  them  under  the  apron 
of  the  turkey.     Put  a  skewer  in  the  joint  of  the  wing  and  the 
middle  joint  of  the  leg,  and  run  it  through  the  body  and  the 
other  leg  and  wing.     The  liver  and  gizzard  must  be  put  in  the 
pinions;  but  take  care  first  to  open  the  gizzard,  and  take  out 
the  filth  and  the  gall  of  the  liver.    Then  turn  the  small  end 
of  the  pinion  on  the  back,  and  tie  a  packthread  over  the  ends 
of  the  legs  to  keep  them  in  their  places.    If  the  turkey  is  to 
be  roasted,  leave  the  legs  on,  put  a  skewer  in  the  joint  of  the 
wing,  tuck  the  legs  close  up,  and  put  the  skewer  through  the 
middle  of  the  leg  and  body.     On  the  other  side  put  another 
skewer  in  at  the  small  part  of  the  leg.     Put  it  close  on  the 
outside  of  the  sidesman,  and  put  the  skewer  through,  and  the 
same  on  the  other  side.  Put  the  liver  and  gizzard  between  the 
pinions,  and  turn  the  point  of  the  pinion  on  the  back.  Then 
put,  close  above  the  pinions,  another  skewer  through  the 
body  of  the  turkey. 


TRUSSING.  2 1 

• 

Turkey  polts  must  be  trussed  in  the  following  manner : 
Take  the  neck  from  the  head  and  body,  but  do  not  remove 
the  neck  skin.  They  are  drawn  in  the  same  manner  as  a 
turkey.  Put  a  skewer  through  the  joint  of  the  pinion,  tuck 
the  legs  close,  run  the  skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg, 
through  the  body,  and  so  on  the  other  side.  Cut  off  the  un- 
der part  of  the  bill,  twist  the  skin  of  the  neck  round,  and  put 
the  head  on  the  point  of  the  skewer,  with  the  bill  end  for- 
wards. Another  skewer  must  be  put  in  the  sidesman,  and  the 
legs  placed  between  the  sidesman  and  apron  on  each  side. 
Pass  the  skewer  through  all,  and  cut  off  the  toe-nails.  It  is 
very  common  to  lard  them  on  the  breast.  The  liver  and 
gizzard  may  or  may  not  be  used,  as  you  like. 

Geese. 


HAVING  picked  and  stubbed  your  goose  clean,  cut  the  feet 
off  at  the  joint,  and  the  pinion  off  at  the  first  joint.  Then  cut 
off  the  neck  close  to  the  back  ;  but  leave  the  skin  of  the  neck 
long  enough  to  turn  over  the  back.  Pull  out  the  throat,  and 
tie  a  knot  at  the  end.  With  your  middle  finger  loosen  the 
liver  and  other  matters  at  the  breast  end,  and  cut  it  open  be- 
tween the  vent  and  the  rump.  Having  done  this,  draw  out  all 
the  entrails,  excepting  the  soal.  Wipe  it  out  clean  with  a  wet 
cloth,  and  beat  the  breast-bone  flat  with  a  rolling-pin.  Put  a 
skewer  into  the  wing,  and  draw  the  legs  close  up.  Put  the 
skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg,  and  through  the  body, 
and  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Put  another  skewer  in  the 
small  of  the  leg,  tuck  it  close  down  to  the  sidesman,  run  it 
through,  and  do  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Cut  off  the  end 
of  the  vent,  and  make  a  hole  large  enough  for  the  passage  of 
the  rump,  as  it  holds  the  seasoning  much  better  by 
means. 


22  TRUSSING. 

Ducks. 


DUCKS  and  Geese  are  trussed  in  the  same  manner,  ex- 
cepting that  the  feet  are  left  on  the  ducks,  and  are  turned 
close  to  the  legs. 

Fowls. 


THEY  must  first  be  picked  very  clean,  and  the  neck  cut  off 
close  to  the  back.  Then  take  out  the  crop,  and  with  your 
middle  finger  loosen  the  liver  and  other  matters.  Cut  off  the 
vent,  draw  it  clean,  and  beat  the  breast-bone  flat  with  a  rolling- 
pin.  If  your  fowl  is  to  be  boiled,  cut  off  the  nails  of  the  feet, 
and  tuck  them  down  close  to  the  leg.  Put  your  finger  into  the 
inside,  and  raise  the  skin  of  the  legs ;  then  cut  a  hole  in  the 
top  of  the  skin,  and  put  the  legs  under.  Put  a  skewer  in  the 
first  joint  of  the  pinion,  bring  the  middle  of  the  leg  close  to 
it,  put  the  skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  leg,  and  through 
the  body.  Do  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Having  opened 
the  gizzard,  take  out  the  filth,  and  the  gall  out  of  the  liver. 
Put  the  gizzard  and  the  liver  in  the  pinions, and  turn  the  point 
on  the  back.  Remember  to  tie  a  string  over  the  tops  of  the 
legs,  to  keep  them  in  their  proper  place.  If  your  fowl  is  to  be 
roasted,  put  a  skewer  in  the  first  joint  of  the  pinion,  and 
bring  the  middle  of  the  leg  close  to  it.  Put  the  skewer  through 
the  middle  of  the  leg,  and  through  the  body,  and  do  the  same 
on  the  other  side.  Put  another  skewer  in  the  small  of  the  leg, 
and  through  the  sidesman.  Do  the  same  on  the  other  side. 
Put  another  skewer  through  the  skin  of  the  feet.  You  must 
not  forget  that  the  nails  are  to  be  cut  off. 


TRUSSING.  23 

Chickens. 


THESE  must  be  picked  and  drawn  in  the  same  manner  as 
fowls.  If  the  chickens  are  to  be  boiled,  cut  off  the  nails, 
give  the  sinews  a  nick  on  each  side  of  the  joint,  put  the  feet 
in  at  the  vent,  and  then  put  in  the  rump.  Draw  the  skin  tight 
over  the  legs,  put  a  skewer  in  the  first  joint  of  the  pinion,  and 
bring  the  middle  of  the  leg  close.  Put  the  skewer  through 
the  middle  of  the  legs,  and  through  the  body,  and  do  the  same 
on  the  other  side.  Clean  the  gizzard,  and  take  out  the  gall 
in  the  liver ;  put  them  into  the  pinions,  and  turn  the  points 
on  the  back.  If  your  chickens  are  to  be  roasted,  cut  off  the 
feet,  put  a  skewer  in  the  first  joint  of  the  pinions,  and  bring 
the  middle  of  the  leg  close.  Run  the  skewer  through  the 
middle  of  the  leg,  and  through  the  body,  and  do  the  same  on 
the  other  side.  Put  another  skewer  into  the  sidesman,  put 
the  legs  between  the  apron  and  the  sidesman,  and  run  the 
skewer  through.  Having  cleaned  the  liver  and  gizzard,  put 
them  in  the  pinions,  turn  the  points  on  the  back  and  over 
the  neck,  and  pull  the  breast  skin. 

Wild  Fowl. 

THE  directions  we  are  giving  will  answer  for  all  kinds  of 
wild  fowl  in  general.  Having  picked  them  clean,  cut  off  the 
neck  close  to  the  back,  and  with  your  middle  finger  loosen 
the  liver  and  guts  next  the  breast.  Cut  off  the  pinions  at  the 
first  joint,  then  cut  a  slit  between  the  vent  and  the  rump,  and 
draw  them  clean.  Clean  them  properly  with  the  long  feathers 
on  the  wing,  cut  off  the  nails,  and  turn  the  feet  close  to  the 
legs.  Put  a  skewer  into  the  pinions,  pull  the  legs  close  to 
the  breast,  and  run  the  skewer  through  the  legs,  body,  and 
the  other  pinion.  First  cut  off  the  vent,  and  then  put  the 
rump  through  it. 

Pigeons. 


You  must  first  pick  them,  and  cut  off  the  neck  close  to  the 
back.   Then  take  out  the  crop,  cut  off  the  vent,  and  draw  out 


24  TRUSSING. 

the  guts  and  gizzard,  but  leave  in  the  liver,  for  a  pigeon  has  no 
gall.  If  your  pigeons  are  to  be  roasted,  cut  off  the  toes,  cut 
a  slit  in  one  of  the  legs,  and  put  the  other  through  it.  Draw 
the  leg  tight  lo  the  pinion,  put  a  skewer  through  the  pinions, 
legs,  and  body,  and  with  the  handle  of.a  knife  break  the  breast 
flat.  Clean  the  gizzard,  put  it  in  one  of  the  pinions,  and  turn 
the  point  on  the  back.  If  you  intend  to  make  a  pie  of  them, 
you  must  cut  the  feet  off  at  the  joint,  turn  the  legs,  and  stick 
them  in  the  sides  close  to  the  pinions.  If  they  are  to  be 
stewed  or  boiled,  they  must  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 

Woodcocks  and  Sniper. 


THESE  birds  are  very  tender  to  pick,  especially  if  they  be 
not  quite  fresh.  They  must  therefore  be  handled  as  little  as 
possible,  for  even  the  heat  of  the  hand  will  sometimes  pull 
off  the  skin,  when  the  beauty  of  your  bird  will  be  destroyed. 
When  you  have  picked  them  clean,  cut  the  pinions  off  at  the 
first  joint,  and  with  the  handle  of  a  knife  beat  the  breast-bone 
flat.  Turn  the  legs  close  to  the  thighs,  and  tie  them  together 
at  the  joints.  Put  the  thighs  close  to  the  pinions,  put  a  skewer 
into  the  pinion,  and  run  it  through  the  thighs,  body,  and  the 
other  pinion.  Skin  the  head,  turn  it,  take  out  the  eyes  and 
put  the  head  on  the  point  of  the  skewer  with  the  bill  close  to 
the  breast.  Woodcocks,  snipes,  or  plovers,  are  trussed  in  the 
same  nrtgpfiner,  but  must  never  be  drawn. 
'-• 

Larks,  Wheat-ears,  Kc. 

WHRN  you  have  picked  them  clean,  cut  off  their  heads, 
and  the  pinions  at  the  first  joint.  Beat  the  breast-bone  flat 
with  the  handle  of  a  knife,  turn  the  feet  close  to  the  legs,  and 
put  one  into  the  other.  Draw  out  the  gizzard,  and  run  a 
skewer  through  the  middle  of  the  bodies  of  as  many  as  you 
mean  to  dress.  They  must  be  tied  on  the  spit. 

Pheasants  and  Partridges. 


PICK  them  very  clean,  cut  a  slit  at  the  back  of  the  neck, 
take  out  the  crop,  and  loosen  the  liver  and  gut  next  the  breast 


TRUSSING.  25 


with  your  fore-finger,  then  cut  off  the  vent  and  draw  them. 
Cut  oft  the  pinion  at  the  first  joint,  and  wipe  out  the  inside 
with  the  pinion  you  have  cut  off;  for  you  never  need  pick 
these  birds  beyond  U^e  first  joint  of  the  pinion.  With  a  roll- 
ing-pin beat  the  breast-bone  flat,  put  a  skewer  in  the  pinion, 
and  bring  the  middle  of  the  legs  close.  Then  run  the  skewer 
through  the  legs,  body, and  the  other  pinion;  bring  the  head, 
and  put  it  on  the  end  of  the  skewer,  the  bill  fronting  the  breast. 
Put  another  skewer  into  the  sidesman,  and  put  the  legs  close 
on  each  side  the  apron,  and  then  run  the  skewer  through  all. 
You  must  leave  the  beautiful  feathers  on  the  head  of  the  cock 
pheasant,  and  put  paper  to  prevent  the  bad  effects  of  the  fire. 
You  must  also  save  the  long  feathers  in  the  tajl  to  stick  in  the 
rump  when  roasted.  In  the  same  manner  are  trussed  all  kinds 
of  moor-game.  If  they  are  to  be  boiled,  put  the  legs  in  the 
manner  as  in  trussing  a  fowl  for  boiling. 

Hares. 


.HAVING  cut  off  the  four  legs  at  the  first  joint,  raise  the  skin 

of  the  back,  and  draw  it  over  the  hind  legs.     Leave  the  tail 

whole,  draw  the  skin  over  the  hack,  and  slip  out  the  fore  legs. 

Cut  the  skin  off  the  neck  and  head;  but  take  care  to  leave  the 

ears  on,  and  mind  to  skin  them.   Take  out  the  liver,  lights,  &c. 

but  be  sure  to  take  the  gut  out  of  the  vent.     Cut  the  sinews 

that  lie  under  the  hind  legs,  bring  them  up  to  the  fore  legs, 

put  a  skewer  through  the  hind  leg,  then  through  the  foreleg 

under  the  joint,  run  it  through  the  body,  and  do  the  same  on 

lie  other  side.     Put  another  skewer  through  the  thick  part  of 

t»e  hind  legs  and  body,  put  the  head  between  the  shoulders, 

ard  run  a  skewer  through  to  keep  it  in  its  place.  Pur  askewer 

in»achear  to  make  them  stand  erect,  and  tie  a  string  round 

the  middle  of  the  body  over  the  legs  to  keep  them  in  their 

pla<£.     You  may  truss  a  young  fawn  in  the  same  manner, 

only-mind  to  cut  off  the  ears. 


26  BOILING. 

Rabbits. 


RABBITS  are  to  be  cased  ih  the  same  manner  as  hares,  only 
observe  to  cut  off  the  ears  close  to  the  head.  Cut  the  vent 
open,  and  slit  the  legs  about  an  inch  upon  each  side  the  rump. 
Make  the  hind  legs  Jie  flat,  and  bring  the  ends  to  the  fore  legs. 
Put  a  skewer  in  the  hind  leg,  then  in  the  fore  leg  and  through 
the  body.  Bring  the  head  round,  and  put  it  on  the  skewer. 
If  you  want  to  roast  two  together,  truss  them  at  full  length, 
with  six  skewers  run  through  them  both,  so  that  they  may  be 
properly  fastened  upon  the  spit. 


CHAPTER  III. 

_ 

BOILING. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

-TN  FATNESS  being  a  most  material  requisition  in  a  kitchen,  the 
cook  should  be  particularly  cautious  to  keep  all  the  utensils 
perfectly  clean,  and  the  pots  and  saucepans  properly  tinned. 
In  boiling  any  kind  of  meat,  but  particularly  veal,  much  care 
and  nicety  are  required.  Fill  your  pot  with  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  soft  water;  dust  your  veal  well  with  fine  flour,  put  it 
into  your  pot,  and  set  it  over  a  large  fire.  It  is"  the  custom 
with  some  people  to  put  in  milk  to  make  it  white ;  but  this  if 
of  no  use,  and  perhaps  better  omitted  ;  for,  if  you  use  har« 
water,  it  will  curdle  the  milk,  give  to  the  veal  a  brownisl- 
yellow  cast,  and  will  often  hang  in  lumps  about  it.  Oatm«al 
will  do  the  same  thing ;  but  by  dusting  your  veal,  and  puttng 
it  into  the  water  when  cold,  it  will  prevent  the  foulness  of  the 
water  from  hanging  upon  it.  Take  the  scum  off  clear  as.oon 
as  it  begins  to  rise,  and  cover  up  the  pot  closely.  Le-  the 
meat  boil  as  slowly  as  possible,  put  in  plenty  of  water,  */hich 
will  make  your  veal  rise  and  look  plump.  A  cook  Cannot 
make  a  greater  mistake,  than  to  let  any  sort  of  meat  b>il  fast, 
since  it  hardens  the  outside  before  it  is  warm  within,  fld  con- 
tributes to  discolour  it.  Thus  a  leg  of  veal,  of  twelv--pounds 
weight,  will  take  three  hours  and  a  half  boiling ;  and  the 
slower  it  boils,  the  whiter  and  plumper  it  will  be.  Vhen  mut- 


BOILING.  21 

ton  or  beef  is  the  object  of  your  cookery,  be  careful  to  dredge 
them  well  with  flour,  before  you  put  them  into  the  pot  of 
cold  water,  and  keep  it  covered  ;  but  do  not  forget  to  take 
off  the  scum  as  often  as  it  rises.  Mutton  and  beef  do  not  re- 
quire so  much  boiling;  nor  is  it  much  minded  if  it  be  a  little 
under  the  mark;  but  lamb,  pork,  and  veal,  should  be  well 
boiled,  as  they  will  otherwise  be  unwholesome.  A  leg  of 
pork  will  take  half  an  hour  more  boiling  than  a  leg  of  veal 
of  the  same  weight;  but,  in  general,  when  you  boil  beef  or 
mutton,  you  may  allow  an  hour  for  every  four  pounds  weight. 
To  put  in  the  meat  when  the  water  is  cold,  is  allowed  to  be 
the  best  method,  as  it  thereby  gets  warm  to  the  heart  before 
the  outside  gets  hard.  To  boil  a  leg  of  lamb,  of  four  pounds 
\)'eight,  you  must  allow  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Grass  Lamb, 

So  many  pounds  as  the  joint  weighs,  so  many  quarters  of 
an  hour  it  must  boil.  Serve  it  up  with  spinach,  carrots,  cab- 
bage, or  brocoli. 

Calf's  Head.  ' 

WASH  it  very  clean,  soak  it  in  water  for  two  hours,  then 
parboil  one  half ;  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  rub  it  over 
the  head  with  a  feather ;  then  strew  over  it  a  seasoning  of  pep- 
per, salt,  thyme,  parsley  chopped  small,  shred  lemon-peel, 
grated  bread,  and  a  little  nutmeg  ;  stick  bits  of  butter  over  it, 
and  send  it  to  the  oven.  Boil  the  other  half  white  in  a  cloth  ; 
put  them  both  .into  a  dish  Boil  the  brains  in  a  bit  of  cloth, 
with  a  very  little  parsley,  and  a  leaf  or  two  of  sage.  When 
they  are  boiled,  chop  them  small,  and  warm  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan, with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Lay 
the  tongue,  boiled  and  peeled,  in  the  middle  of  a  small  dish, 
and  the  brains  round  it ;  have,  in  another  dish,  bacon  or 
pickled  pork  ;  greens  or  carrots  in  another. 

To  boil  Veal  like  Sturgeon. 

TAKE  a  small  delicate  fillet  of  veal,  from  a  cow-calf;  take 
off  the  skin,  and  then  lard  it  all  over,  top,  bottom,  and  sides 
with  some  bacon  and  ham.  Put  into  a  stevvpan  some  slices  of 
bacon  and  veal ;  strew  over  them  some  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet 
herbs;  then  put  in  the  fillet  with  as-much  broth  as  will  just 
cover  them.  Cover  the  stewpan  very  close,  and  let  them  sim- 
mer very  gently.  When  the  veal  is  nearly  enough,  put  in  a 
pint  of  white  wine,  an  onion  shred,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  little 
mace  ;  put  on  the  cover  of  the  stewpau,  set  it  over  a  stove, 
and  lay  some  charcoal  upon  it.  When  it  has  been  kept  hot 
ten  minutes,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  remove  the  charcoal.  If 
it  is  intended  to  be  eaten  hot,  the  following  sauce  must  be 


2S  BOILING. 

made  while  it  is  stewing.  Set  on  a  saucepan,  with  a  glass  of 
gravy,  a  glass  and  a  half  of  vinegar,  half  a  lemon  sliced,  a 
large  onion  sliced,  and  a  good  deal  of  pepper  and  salt.  Boil 
this  a  few  minutes,  and  strain  it.  Lay  the  meat  in  a  dish,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  it.  If  it  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  it  must  not 
be  taken  out  of  the  liquor  it  is  stewed  in,  but  set  by  to  cool 
all  night,  and  it  will  be  exceedingly  good. 

Haunch  or  Neck  of  Venison. 

HAVING  let  it  lie  in  salt  for  a  week,  boil  it  in  a  cloth  well 
floured  ;  and  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour's  boiling  for  every 
pound  it  weighs.  For  sauce,  you  may  boil  some  cauliflowers^ 
pulled  into  Tittle  sprigs,  in  milk  and  water,  with  some  fine 
white  cabbage,  and  some  turnips  cut  in  dice,  add  some  beet- 
root cut  into  narrow  pieces,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  and 
half  an  inch  thick.  Lay  a  sprig  of  cauliflower,  and  some  of 
the  turnips  mashed  with  some  cream  and  a  little  butter.  Let 
your  cabbage  be  boiled,  and  then  beat  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
piece  of  butter  and  salt.  Lay  that  next  the  cauliflower,  then 
the  turnips,  then  the  cabbage,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  be  full. 
Place  the  beet-root  here  and  there,  according  to  your  taste. 
Have  a  little  melted  butter.  This  is  a  very  fine  dish,  and 
looks  very  prettily. 

The  haunch  or  neck,  thus  dressed,  eats  well  the  next  day 
hashed  with  gravy  and  sweet  sauce. 

Hams. 

PUT  your  ham  into  a  copper  of  cold  water,  and  when  it 
boils,  take  care  that  it  boils  slowly.  A  ham  of  twenty  pounds 
will  take  four  hours  and  a  half  boiling  :  and  so  in  proportion 
for  one  of  a  larger  or  smaller  size.  No  soaking  is  required 
for  a  green  ham  ;  but  an  old  and  large  ham  will  require  six- 
teen hours  soaking  in  water,  after  which  it  should  lie  on  damp 
stones,  sprinkled  with  water,  two  or  three  days  to  mellow. 
Observe  to  keep  the  pot  well  skimmed  while  your  ham  is 
boiling.  When  you  take  it  up,  pull  oft'  the  skin  as  whole  as 
possible,  and  save  it ;  and  strew  on  it  raspings.  When  the  ham 
is  brought  from  table,  put  the  skin  upon  it,  which  will  pre- 
serve it  moist. 

Another  way  of  dressing  a  Ham. 

HAVING  put  the  ham  in  a  copper  as  before,  add  two  pounds 
of  veal :  after  boiling  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  add  celery,  three 
heads  ;  young  onions  one  handful,  or  one  old  one ;  thyme 
and  sweet-marjorum,  a  small  quantity;  t\yo  turnips;  winter 
savory,  one  handful ;  one  or  two  eschalots ;  and  boil  as  be- 
fore, till  sufficiently  tender.  The  broth  will  form  a  valuable 
present  to  poor  families. 


BOILING.  29 

Tongues. 

STEEP  the  tongue  in  water  all  night,  if  it  be  a  dry  one ; 
but  if  it  be  a  pickled  one,  only  wash  it  out  of  water.  Boil  it 
three  hour*. 

Pickled  Pork. 

HAVING  washed  your  pork,  and  scraped  it  clean,  let  it  lie 
half  an  hour  in  cold  water,  put  it  in  when  the  water  is  cold, 
and  let  it  boil  till  the  rind  be  tender. 

Leg  of  Mutton  with  Cauliflowers  and  Spinach. 

Cur  a  leg  of  mutton  venison  fashion,  and  boil  it  in  a  cloth  : 
boil  three  or  four  cauliflowers  in  milk  and  water,  pull  them  into 
sprigs,  and  stew  them  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
milk  ;  stew  some  spinach  in  a  saucepan;  put  to  the  spinach  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  flower. 
When  it  is  enough,  put  the  mutton  in  the  middle*  the  spinach 
round  it,  and  the  cauliflower  over  all.  The  butter  the  cauli- 
flower was  stewed  in  must  be  poured  over  it,  and  it  must  be 
melted  like  a  smooth  cream. 

Chickens. 

PUT  your  chickens  into  scalding  water,  and  as  soon  as  the 
feathers  will  slip  off,  take  them  out,  otherwise  they  will  make 
the  skin  hard.  After  you  have  drawn  them,  lay  them  in  skim- 
med milk  for  two  hours,  and  then  truss  them  with  their  heads 
on  their  wings.  When  you  have  properly  singed,  and  dusted 
them  with  flour,  cover  them  close  in  cold  water,  and  set  them 
over  a  slow  fire.  Having  taken  off  the  scum,  and  boiled  them 
slowly  for  five  or  six  minutes,  take  them  off  the  fire,  and  keep 
them  close  covered  for  half  an  hour  in  the  water,  which  will 
stew  them  sufficiently,  and  make  them  plump  and  white. 
Before  you  dish  them,  set  them  on  the  fire  to  heat ;  then 
drain  them,  and  pour  over  them  white  sauce. — See  Sauces. 

Fowls. 

PLUCK  your  fowls,  draw  them  at  the  rump,  and  cut  off  the 
head,  neck,  and  legs.  Take  out  the  breast-bone  carefully; 
and  having  skewered  them  with  the  ends  of  their  legs  in  their 
bodies,  tie  them  round  with  a  string.  Singe  and  dust  them 
well  with  flour,  put  them  into  cold  water,  cover  the  kettle 
close,  and  set  it  on  the  fire;  but  take  it  off  as  soon  as  the 
scum  begins  to  rise.  Cover  them  close  again,  and  let  them 
boil  twenty  minutes  very  slowly.  Then  take  them  off,  and 
'he  heat  of  the  water,  in  half  an  hour,  will  stew  them  suffi- 


30  BOILING. 

ciently.  Then  treat  them  in  the  same  manner  as  above  di- 
rected for  chickens,  though  melted  butter  is  as  often  used  as 
white  sauce. 

Turkeys. 

A  TURKEY  should  not  be  fed  the  day  before  it  is  to  be 
killed  ;  but  give  it  a  spoonful  of  allegar  just  before  you  kill  it, 
and  it  will  make  it  white  and  tender.  Let  it  hang  by  the  legs 
four  or  five  days  after  it  is  killed  ;  and  when  you  have  plucked 
it,  draw  it  at  the  rump.  Cut  off  the  legs,  put  the  end  of  the 
thighs  into  the  body,  and  skewer  them  clown,  and  tic  them 
with  a  string.  Having  cut  off  the  head  and  neck,  grate  a 
penny  Joaf,  chop  fine  a  score  of  oysters  at  least,  shred  a  little 
lemon-peel,  and  put  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  salt,  pepper, 
and  nutmeg.  Mix  these  up  into  a  light  forcemeat,  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  three  eggs,  a  spoonful  or  two  of 
cream,  and  stuff  the  craw  with  part  of  it ;  the  rest  must  be 
made  into  balls,  and  boiled.  Having  sewed  up  the  turkey, 
and  dredged  it  well  with  flour,  put  it  into  a  kettle  of  cold 
water  ;  cover  it,  and  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  take  the  scum 
off  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  rise,  and  cover  it  again.  It  must 
boil  very  slowly  for  half  an  hour;  then  take  off  your  kettle, 
and  let  it  stand  close  covered.  A  middling  turkey  will  take 
half  an  hour  to  stand  in  the  hot  water,  and  the  steam  being- 
confined  will  sufficiently  stew  it.  When  you  dish  it  up,  pour 
a  little  of  your  oyster-sauce  over  it,  lay  your  balls  round  it, 
and  serve  it  up,  with  the  rest  of  your  sauce  in  a  boat.  Bar- 
berries and  lemon  will  be  a  proper  garnish.  Set  it  over  the 
fire,  and  make  it  quite  hot  before  you  dish  it  up. 

Geese. 

SALT  a  goose  a  week,  and  boil  it  an  hour.  Serve  it  up  with 
onion  sauce,  or  cabbage  boiled  or  stewed  in  butter. 

Another  way. 

SINGE  a  goose,  and  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  boiling  milk. 
Let  it  lie  in  it  all  night,  then  take  it  out,  and  dry  it  well  with 
a  cloth.  Cut  small  a  large  onion  and  some  sage,  put  them  into 
the  goose,  sew  it  up  at  the  neck  and  vent,  hang  it  up  by  the 
legs  till  next  day,  then  put  it  into  a  pot  of  cold  water,  cover  it 
close,  and  let  it  boil  softly  for  an  hour.  Onion  sauce. 

A  smoked  Goose. 

TAKE  a  large  stubble  goose,  take  off  the  fat,  dry  it  well 
inside  and "  out  with  a  cloth ;  wash  it  all  over  with  vinegar, 
and  then  rub  it  over  with  some  common  salt,  salt-petre,  and 


BOILING.  31 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar.  Rub  the  salts  well  in, 
and  let  it  lay  a  fortnight;  then  drain  it  well-,  sew  it  up  in  a 
cloth,  and  dry  it  in  the  middle  of  a  chimney.  It  should  hang 
a  month.  Serve  it  up  with  onions,  greens,  &c. 

Ducks. 

As  soon  as  you  have  scalded  and  drawn  your  ducks,  let 
them  remain  for  a  few  minutes  in  warm  water,  then  take  them 
out,  put  them  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  pour  a  pint  of  boiling 
milk  over  them.  Let  them  lie  in  it  two  or  three  hours/  and 
when  you  take  them  out,  dredge  them  well  with  flour;  put 
them  into  a  copper  of  cold  water,  and  cover  them  up.  Hav- 
ing boiled  slowly  about  twenty  minutes,  take  them  out,  and 
smother  them  with  onion  sauce. 

Pigeons. 

SCALD  and  draw  your  pigeons,  and  take  out  the  craAv  as 
clean  as  possible.  Wash  them  in  several  waters  ;  and  having 
cut  off  their  pinions,  turn  their  legs  under  their  wings;  dredge 
them,  and  put  them  into  soft  cold  water.  Having  boiled  them 
very  slowly  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  dish  them  up,  and  pour  over 
them  good  melted  butter ;  lay  round  them  a  little  brocoli,  and 
^ervethem  up  with  butter  and  parsley. 

Rabbits. 

CASE  your  rabbits ;  skewer  them  with  their  heads  straight 
up,  the  fore  legs  brought  down,  and  the  hind  legs  straight. 
Boil  them  at  least  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  then  smother 
them  with  onion  sauce.  Pull  out  the  jaw  bones,  stick  them  in 
their  eyes,  and  serve  them  up  with  a  sprig  of  myrtle  or  bar- 
berries in  their  mouths. — See  Sauces. 

Partridges. 

BOIL  them  quick  in  a  good  deal  of  water,  and  fifteen  mi- 
nutes will  be  sufficient.  For  sauce  take  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  cream,  and  a  piece  of  fresh  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut; 
stir  it  one  way  till  it  be  melted,  and  pour  it  into  the  dish. 

Pheasants. 

BOIL  your  pheasants  in  a  good  deal  of  water,  and  be  sure 
to  keep  it  boiling.  If  it  be  a  small  one,  half  an  hour  will  boil 
it ;  but  if  it  be  of  the  larger  sort,  you  must  allow  it  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  longer.  Let  your  sauce  be  celery  stewed  and 
thickened  with  cream,  and  a  little  piece  of  •  butter  rolled  in 
flour;  and  when  your  pheasant  is  done,  pour  your  sauce  over 
it,  and  garnish  with  lemon.  Observe  so  to  stew  your  celery, 
that  the  liquor  may  not  be  all  wasted  before  you  put  in  your 
cream.  Season  with  salt  to  your  palate. — See  Sauces. 


BOILING. 

Snipes  or  Woodcocks. 

YOUR  snipes  or  woodcocks  must  be  boiled  in  a  good  strong 
broth $  or  beef  gravy,  made  thus:  cut  a  pound  of  beef  into  little 
^pieces,  and  pour  on  it  two  qiwts  of  water,  with  an  onion, 
a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  six  cloves, 
and  some  whole  pepper.  Cover  it  close,  let  it  boil  till  about 
half  wasted,  then  strain  it  off,  and  put  the  gravy  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  salt  enough  to  season  it.  Gut  the  birds  clean,  but 
take  care  of  the  trails.  Put  them  into  the  gravy,  cover  them 
close,  and  ten  minutes  will  boil  them.  In  the  meantime,  cut 
the  trails  and  liver  small,  then  take  a  little  of  the  gravy  the 
snipes  are  boiling  in,  and  stew  the  trails  in  it,  with  a  blade  of 
mace.  Fry  some  crumbs  of  bread  crisp  in  some  butter,  of  a 
fine  light  brown.  You  must  take  about  as  much  bread  as  the 
inside  of  a  stale  roll,  and  rub  them  small  into  a  clean  cloth  ; 
and  when  they  are  done,  let  them  stand  ready  in  a  plate  before 
the  fire.  When  your  snipes  are  ready,  take  about  half  a  pint 
of  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in,  and  add  to  the  trails  two 
spoonfuls  of  red  wine,  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a  wal- 
nut, rolled  in  a  little  flour.  Set  them  on  the  fire,  shake  your 
saucepan  often,  (but  do  not  stir  it  with  a  spoon)  till  the  but- 
ter is  all  melted.  Then  put  in  the  crumbs,  give  the  saucepan 
a  shake,  take  up  your  birds,  lay  them  in  the  dish,  and  pour 
your  sauce  over  thetn.  Lemon  is  a  proper  garnish. 

Pig's  Pettitoes. 

LET  the  feet  boil  till  they  are  pretty  tender  ;  but  take  up 
the  heart,  liver,  and  lights,  when  they  have  boiled  ten  minutes, 
and  shred  them  rather  small.  Take  out  the  feet,  and  split 
them  ;  thicken  your  gravy  with  flour  and  butter,  and  put  in 
yeur  mincemeat,  a  little  mace,  a  slice  of  lemon,  a  little  salt, 
and  give  it  a  gentle  boil.  Lay  s'ppets  round  the  dish,  and 
pour  in  your  mincemeat,  and  in  the  centre  the  pettitoes. 

Salmon. 

HAVING  scalded  your  salmon,  take  out  the  blood,  wash  the 
fish  well,  and  lay  it  on  a  fish  plate.  Put  your  water  in  a  fish- 
pan,  with  a  little  salt,  and  when  it  boils,  put  in  your  fish  for 
half  a  minute  ;  then  take  it  out  for  a  minute  or  two.  Do  this 
four  times,  and  then  boil  it  till  it  be  enough.  When  you  take 
it  out  of  the  fish-pan,  set  it  over  the  water  to  drain,  and  cover 
it  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  hot  water.  Frv  a  few  slices  of  salmon, 
or  some  small  fish,  and  lay  them  round  it.  Scraped  horse- 
radish and  parsley  will  be  a  proper  garnish. 


BOILING.  33 

Soles. 

THEY  must  be  boiled  in  salt  and  water,  and  served  up 
"with  anchovy  sauce. 

Soles  the  Dutch  way. 

TAKE  a  pair  of  large  soles,  skin,  gut,  and  wash  them  very 
clean  in  spring-water.  Set  them  on  in  a  stewpan  with  some 
water  and  a  little  salt,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  soles,  and 
let  them  boil  a  few  minutes.  Then  put  on  a  saucepan  with 
some  parsley  cut  small  in  a  little  water,  and  let  it  stand  till 
the  water  is  all  consumed.  Then  shake  in  some  flour,  and 
put  in  a  good  piece  of  butter.  Shake  them  well  together  till 
all  is  well  mixed,  and  then  lay  the  soles,  when  they  are  drained, 
upon  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

Trout. 

BOIL  them  in  vinegar,  water,  and  salt,  with  a  piece  of  horse- 
radish. White  sauce,  anchovy  saute,  and  plain  butter. 

Cod's  Head. 

FIRST  take  out  the  gills  and  the  blood  clean  from  the  bone, 
and  wash  the  head  well ;  then  rub  over  it  a  little  salt,  and  a 
glass  of  vinegar.  Lay  it  on  your  fish-plate,  and  when  your 
water  boils,  throw  in  a  large  handful  of  salt,  and  a  glass  of 
vinegar.  Put  in  your  fish,  and  boil  it  gently  half  an  hour;  but 
if  it  be  a  large  one,  it  will  take  three  quarters.  Take  it  up 
very  carefully,  and  see  that  no  water  or  scum  hang  about  the 
fish.  Garnish  with  a  few  smelts,  or  oysters  fried,  parsley, 
scraped  horse-radish,  and  lemon  cut  in  slices,  laid  round  it. 
The  roe  and  liver  must  be  cut  into  slices,  and  laid  close  to  it. 

Salt  Cod. 

SOAK  the  fish  six  hours  in  soft  water,  then  lay  it  on  a  stone 
or  brick  floor  for  eight  hours  :  if  very  salt,  repeat  the  soaking 
for  six  hours,  otherwise  three  will  be  sufficient,  and  lay  it 
again  on  the  floor  for  two.  Brush  it  well  with  a  moderately 
hard  brush,  and  boil  gently  in  soft  water.  Serve  in  a  napkin. 
Thus  dressed  it  will  swell  considerably,  and  come  off  in  fine 
flakes.  Serve  with  egg  sauce,  mashed  potatoes,  and  par- 
snips. 

Cod  Sounds. 

SOAK  them  in  warm  water  half  an  hour,  then  scrape  and 
clean  ;  boil  in  milk  and  water  till  tender.  Serre  in  a  napkin, 
with  egg  sauce. 

D 


34  BOILING. 

Turbot. 

YOUR  turbot  must  be  washed  clean.  Rub  some  vinegar 
over  it,  which  will  add  to  its  firmness,  Put  it  on  your  fish- 
plate, with  the  white  side  upwards,  and  pin  a  cloth  over  it 
tight  under  your  plate,  which  will  prevent  its  breaking.  Boil 
it  gently  in  hard  water  with  plenty  of  salt  and  vinegar,  and 
skim  it  well,  which  will  prevent  the  skin  being  discoloured ; 
and  when  enough,  take  it  up  and  drain  it.  Take  the  cloth 
off  carefully,  and  slip  the  fish  on  your  dish ;  garnish  with 
double  parsley,  lemon,  and  horse-radish.  The  proper  sauces, 
are  lobster,  anchovy,  and  plain  butter. — See  Sauces. 

Turbot  boiled  with  Capers. 

WASH  and  dry  a  small  turbot,  then  take  some  thyme,  pars- 
ley, sweet  herbs,  and  an  onion  sliced.  Put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan,  then  lay  in  the  turbot,  (the  stewpan  should  be  just  big 
enough  to  hold  the  fish.)  Strew  over  the  fish  the  same  herbs 
that  are  under  it,  with  some  chives  and  sweet  basil.  Then 
pour  in  an  equal  quantity  of  white  wine  and  white  wine  vine- 
gar, till  the  fish  is  covered.  Strew  in  a  little  bay  salt,  with 
some  whole  pepper ;  set  the  stewpan  over  a  gentle  stove,  in- 
creasing the  heat  by  degrees,  till  it  be  enough.  Then  take  it 
off  the  fire,  but  do  not  take  the  turbot  out.  Set  a  saucepan  on 
the  fire  with  a  pound  of  butter,  two  anchovies  split,  boned  and 
washed,  two  large  spoonfuls  of  capers  cut  small,  some  chives 
whole,  and  a  little  pepper,  salt,  some  nutmeg  grated,  a  little 
flour,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  water.  Set  the  sauce- 
pan over  the  stove,  and  keep  shaking  it  round  for  some  time, 
and  then  set  the  turbot  on  to  make  it  hot.  Put  it  in  a  dish, 
and  pour  some  of  the  sauce  over  it ;  lay  some  horse-radish 
round  it,  and  put  what  remains  of  the  sauce  in  a  boat. 

Pike. 

GUT  and  gill  your  pike,  and  having  washed  it  well,  make 
a  good  forcemeat  of  chopped  oysters,  crumb  of  bread,  a  little 
lemon-peel  shred  fine,  a  lump  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
a  few  sweet  herbs,  and  season  them  to  your  taste  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Mix  all  these  well  together,  and  put 
them  into  the  belly  of  the  fish,  which  must  be  sewed  up,  and 
skewered  round.  It  must  be  boiled  in  hard  water,  with  a 
little  salt,  and  a  tea-cup  full  of  vinegar  put  into  the  fish-pan. 
Put  in  the  fish  as  soon  as  the  water  boils,  and  if  it  be  of  the 
middling  size,  half  an  hour's  boiling  will  be  sufficient.  Serve 
it  up  with  oyster  sauce  in  a  boat.  Use  pickled  barberries  ami 
parsley  for  a  garnish. 


BOILING.  35 

Sturgeon. 

LAY  as  large  a  piece  as  you  please  of  your  fish  all  night  in 
salt  water,  having  first  taken  care  to  wash  it  clean.  Take  it 
out  the  next  morning,  and  rub  it  well  with  vinegar,  and  let  it 
lie  in  it  two  hours.  Put  your  sturgeon  into  the  fish-kettle 
when  full  of  boiling  water,  and  throw  in  an  ounce  of  bay-salt, 
a  few  sprigs  of  sweet  marjorum,  and  two  large  onions.  When 
you  perceive  the  bones  begin  to  leave  the  fish,  take  it  up,  and 
strip  off  the  skin  ;  then  flour  it  well ;  put  it  before  the  fire,  and 
having  basted  it  with  fresh  butter,  let  it  stand  till  it  be  of  a 
fine  brown.  When  you  dish  it  up,  you  must  make  use  of  the 
white  sauce.  Crisp  parsley  and  red  pickles,  for  garnish. — See 
Sauces. 

MackareL 

WHEN  you  have  gutted  your  mackarel,  dry  them  carefully 
in  a  clean  cloth,  and  gently  rub  them  over  with  vinegar.  Lay 
them  on  your  fish-plate,  and  handle  them  as  little  as  possible, 
as  they  are  liable  to  break.  Put  them  into  your  fish-pan  when 
your  water  boils,  put  in  a  little  salt,  and  let  them  boil  gently 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  When  you  take  them  up,  drain 
them  well,  and  serve  them  with  fennel  and  parsley  sauces. 
Your  fish  must  be  dished  up  with  their  tails  in  the  middle, 
;>nd  scraped  horse-radish  and  barberries  will  serve  as  garnish. 

Flat  Fish. 

UNDER  this  article  we  include  flounders,  plaice,  and  the 
various  species  of  flat  fish  of  that  tribe.  First  cut  off  the  fins, 
nick  the  brown  side  under  the  head,  and  take  out  the  guts. 
Dry  them  with  a  cloth,  and  boil  them  in  salt  and  water.  Gar- 
nish them  with  parsley,  and  serve  them  up  either  with  shrimp, 
cockle,  or  anchovy  sauce. 

Herrings. 

SCALE,  gut,  and  wash  them,  clean  and  dry  them,  and  rub 
them  over  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar.  Skewer  their  tails  in 
their  mouths,  and  lay  them  on  your  fish-plate.  Put  them  in 
when  the  water  boils,  and  in  about  ten  or  twelve  minutes  take 
them  up.  Let  them  drain  properly,  and  then  turn  their  heads 
into  the  middle  of  the  dish.  Use  parsley  and  butter  for  sauce, 
and  garnish  with  scraped  horse-radish. 

Perch. 

WHEN  you  have  scaled,  gutted,  and  washed  your  fish,  put 
it  into  the  water  when  it  boils,  with  some  salt,  an  onion  cut 
into  slices,  and  separated  into  round  rings,  a  handful  of  parsley 

D2 


36  ROASTING. 


clean  picked  and  washed,  and  as  much  milk  as  will  turn  the 
water.  Put  the  fish  into  a  soup  dish  as  soon  as  it  is  enough, 
and  pour  a  little  of  the  water,  and  the  parsley  and  the  onions, 
over  it.  It  may  be  served  up  with  butter  and  parsley  in  a 
boat,  and  with  or  without  onions,  as  you  choose.  The  same 
methgd  may  be  observed  in  boiling  a  trout. 


Eels. 

HAVING  skinned,  gutted,  and  taken  the  blood  out  of  your 
eels,  cut  off  their  heads,  dry  them,  and  turn  them  round  on 
your  fish-plate.  Boil  them  in  salt  ami  water,  and  serve  them 
up  with  parsley  sauce,  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Mullets. 

BOIL  them  in  salt  and  water ;  when  they  are  enough,  pour 
avray  part  of  the  water,  and  put  to  the  rest  a  gill  of  red  wine, 
sonje  salt  and  vinegar,  two  onions  sliced,  with  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  some  nutmeg,  beaten  mace,  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Boil  these  well  together,  with  two  or  three  anchovies. 
Then  'put  ifc  the  fish,  and  when  they  have  simmered  in  it 
some  time,  put  them  into  a  dish,  and  strain  the  sauce  ore1' 
them.  Shrimps  or  oysters  may  be  added. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

ROASTING. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

I:  UT  a  little  salt  and  water  into  the  dripping-pan,  and  with  it 
baste  the  meajs  a  little.  When  dry,  dredge  well  with  flour, 
and  baste  with  fresh  butter ;  because  it  will  give  a  better 
colour  to  your  meat.  The  fire  should  be  regulated  accord- 
ing to  the  thing  to  be  dressed  :  if  very  little  or  thin,  then  you 
should  have  a  pretty  brisk  fire,  that  it  may  be  done  quickly 
and  nicely  ;  if  a  large  joint,  take  care,  that  a  large  fire  is 
laid  on  to  cake.  The  fire  must  be  always  clear  at  the  bot- 
tom ;  and  when  the  meat  is  half  done,  move  the  dripping-parr 
and  spit  a  little  from  the  fire,  and  stir  it  up,  to  make  it  burn 
clear  and  brisk ;  for  a  good  fire  is  a  material  thing  in  the  bu- 
siness of  cookery.  If •  you  are  roasting  beef,  take  care  to 
paper  the  top,  and  baste  well  while  a«  the  fire,  not  forgetting 
to  sprinkle  some  salt  on  it.  When  the  smoke  draws  to  the 


ROASTING.  37 

fire,  it  is  a  sign  that  it  is  nearly  enough  ;  and  then  take  off 
the  paper,  baste  well,  and  dredge  with  flour,  to  make  it 
frothy  ;  but  never  salt  your  meat  before  you  lay  it  to  the  fire, 
as  that  will  draw  out  part  of  the  gravy.  In  roasting  mutton  or 
lamb,  the  loin,  the  chine,  and  the  saddle,  must  have  the  skin 
raised  and  skewered  on,  and  when  nearly  done,  take  off  the 
skin,  and  baste  and  flour,  to  froth  it  up.  All  other  sorts  .of 
mutton  and  lamb  must  be  roasted  with  a  quick  clear  fire,  with- 
out the  skin  being  raised.  You  must  be  careful  to  roast  veal 
of  a  fine  brown  ;  and  if  it  be  a  fillet  or  loin,  be  sure  to  paper 
the  fat,  that  you  may  lose  as  little  of  it  as  possible.  At  first 
keep  it  at  some  distance  from  the  fire,  but  when  it  is  soaked, 
put  it  nearer.  When  you  lay  it  down,  baste  well  with  but- 
ter ;  and  when  nearly  done,  baste  again,  and  dredge  with  a 
little  flour.  The  breast  must  be  roasted  with  the  caul  on,  till 
the  meat  be  enough  done,  and  skewer  the  sweetbread  on  the 
back  side  of  the  breast.  When  sufficiently  roasted,  take  off 
the  caul,  baste  it,  and  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it.  Pork 
should  be  well  done,  or  it  will  otherwise  be  apt  to  surfeit. 
When  you  roast  a  loin,  cut  the  skin  across  with  a  sharp  knife, 
in  order  to  make  the  crackling  eat  the  better.  •  When  you 
roast  a  leg  of  pork,  score  it  in  the  same  manner  as  the  loin, 
and  stuff  the  knuckle  part  with  sage  and  onion,  and  skewer  it 
up.  Put  a  little  drawn  gravy  in  the  dish,  and  send  it  up  with 
apple-sauce  in  a  tureen.  The  spring,  or  hand  of  pork,  if  very 
young,  and  roasted  like  a  pig,  eats  very  well ;  but,  otherwise, 
it  is  much  better  boiled.  The  sparerib  should  be  basted  with 
a  little  butter,  a  very  little  dust  of  flour,  and  some  sage  and 
onions  shred  small.  Apple  sauce  is  the  only  sauce  made  for 
this  joint.  Wildfowls  require  a  clear  brisk  fire,  and  should 
be  roasted  till  they  are  of  a  light  brown,  but  not  too  much  ; 
for  it  is  a  great  fault  to  roast  them  till  the  gravy  runs  out  of 
fhem,  as  they  thereby  lose  their  fine  flavour.  Tame  fowls 
require  more  roasting,  as  they  are  a  long  time  before  they  get 
thoroughly  heated. '  They  should  be  often  basted,  in  order  to 
keep  up  a  strong  froth,  and  as  it  makes  them  of  a  finer  colour, 
and  rise  better.  Pigs  and  geese  should  be  roasted  before  a 
good  fire,  and  turned  quickly.  Hares  and  rabbits  require  time 
and  care,  to  see  the  ends  are  roasted  enough.  In  order  to 
prevent  their  appearing  bloody  at  the  neck  when  they  are 
cut  up,  cut  the  neck  skin,  when  they  are  half  roasted,  and  let 
out  the  blood.  Having  thus  premised  these  general  rules  for 
roasting,  we  shall  now  proceed  to  particulars. 

A  Fore  Quarter  of  House  Lamb. 

HOUSE  lamb  requires  to  be  well  roasted.    A  small  fore- 
quarter  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half;  a  leg,  three  quarters  of 


no  ASH:-. 

an  hour.  For  sauce,  mint  sauce,  with  salad,  brocoli, 
toes,  celery  raw  or  stewed :  or  for  a  fore  quarter  of  lamb,  cut 
off  the  shoulder,  pepper  and  salt  the  ribs,  and  squeeze  a  Se- 
ville orange  over  it. 

Tongues  or  Udders. 

THE  tongue  should  be  parboiled,  before  it  is  put  down  to 
roast;  stick  eight  or  ten  cloves  about  it;  baste  it  with  but- 
ter, and  serve  it  up  with  some  gravy.  An  udder  may  be 
roasted  after  the  same  manner. 

Sweetbreads. 

FIRST  parboil  them,  and  when  cold  lard  them  xvith  bacou, 
and  roast  them  in  a  Dutch  oven,  or  on  a  poor  man's  jack. 
For  sauce,  plain  butter,  ketchup  and  butter,  or  lemon  sauce. 

Venison. 

IN  order  to  roast  a  haunch  of  venison  properly,  as  soon  ajs 
you  have  spitted  it,  you  must  lay  over  it  a  large  sheet  of  pa- 
per, and  then  a  thin  common  paste,  with  another  paper  over 
that.  Tie  it  fast,  in  order  to  keep  the  paste  from  dropping  oft'; 
and  if  the  haunch  be  a  large  one,  it  will  take  four  hours  roast- 
ing. As  soon  as  it  is  done  enough,  take  off  both  paper  and 
paste,  dredge  well  with  flour,  and  baste  with  butter.  As  soon 
as  it  becomes  of  a  light  brown,  dish  it  up ;  serving  brown 
gravy,  and  currant  jelly  sauce,  in  tureens. 

Saddle  of  Mutton. 

TAKE  a  saddle,  and  remove  the  skin  very  neatly  near  the 
rump,  without  taking  it  quite  off,  or  breaking  it.  Take  some 
lean  ham,  truffles,  morels,  green  onions,  parsley,  thyme,  sweet 
herbs,  all  chopped  small,  with  some  spice,  pepper,  and  salt* 
Strew  it  over  the  mutton  where  the  skin  is  taken  off;  put  the 
skin  over  it  neatly,  and  tie  over  it  some  white  paper,  well 
buttered,  and  roast  it.  When  nearly  enough,  take  off  the 
paper,  strew  over  it  some  grated  bread,  and  when  it  is  of  a  fine 
brown,  take  it  up.  Have  ready  some  good  gravy  for  'sauce. 
Or  it  may  be  roasted  without  any  force. 

Haunch  of  Mutton. 

To  dress  a  haunch  of  mutton  venison  fashion,  take  a  hind 
fat  quarter  of  mutton,  and  cut  the  leg  like  a  haunch.  Lay  it 
in  a  pan  with  the  back  side  of  it  down,  and  pour  a  bottle  of 
red  wine  over  it,  in  which  let  it  lie  twenty-four  hours.  Spit 
and  roast  it  at  a  good  quick  fire,  and  keep  basting  all  the  time 
with  the  same  liquor  and  butter.  It  will  require  an  hour  and 
an  half  roasting ;  and  when  done,  send  it  up  with  a  little 


ROASTING.  39 

good  gravy  in  one  boat,  and  sweet  sauce  in  another.  A  good 
i'at  neck  of  mutton  done  in  this  manner,  is  esteemed  delicate 
eating. 

Mutton  with  Oysters. 

TAKE  a  leg  of  mutton,  after  it  has  beeli  killed  two  or  three 
days,  stuff  it  all  over  with  oysters,  and  roast  it.  Garnish  with 
horse-radish.  It  may  be  roasted  with  cockles  in  the  same 
manner. 

Pigs. 

COOKS  who  choose  to  have  the  killing  of  the  pig  they  are 
to  dress,  must  proceed  thus :  stick  the  pig  just  above  the 
breast-bone,  and  run  the  knife  into  its  heart ;  for  if  the  heart 
is  not  touched,  it  will  be  a  long  while  dying.  As  soon  as  it  is 
dead,  put  it  a  few  minutes  in  cold  water,  and  rub  it  over  with 
a  little  rosin,  beaten  exceedingly  fine,  or  you  may  make  use 
of  its  own  blood  for  that  purpose.  Let  it  lie  half  a  minute  in 
a  pail  of  scalding  water,  then  take  it  out,  lay  it  upon  a  clean 
table,  and  pull  off  the  hair  as  fast  as  possible  ;  but  if  it  do  not 
come  clean  off,  put  it  into  the  hot  water  again,  and  when  per- 
fectly clean,  wash  it  in  warm  water,  and  then  in  two  or  three 
cold  waters,  in  order  that  in  may  not  taste  of  the  rosin,  when 
dressed.  Take  off  the  four  feet  at  the  first  joint,  slit  it  down 
the  belly,  and  take  out  all  the  entrails.  Put  the  heart,  liver, 
lights,  and  pettitoes  together;  wash  the  pig  well  in  cold  water, 
and  having  perfectly  dried  it,  fold  it  in  a  wet  cloth  to  keep  it 
from  the  air.  Make  a  stuffing  with  chopped  sage,  two  escha- 
lots, two  eggs,  grated  bread,  and  fresh  butter;  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt :  put  it  into  the  belly,  sew  it  up,  spit  it, 
and  rub  it  over  with  a  paste-brush  dipped  in  sweet  oil.  Roast 
gently,  and  when  done,  cut  off  the  head  ;  'then  cut  the  body 
and  head  in  halves,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  put  the  stuffing  with 
the  brains  into  a  stewpan,  add  to  them  some  good  gravy, 
make  it  boil,  and  serve  up  the  pig  with  the  sauce  under  it. — 
See  Sauces. 

Hind  Quarter  of  a  Pig,  Lamb  fashion. 

AT  that  season  of  the  year,  when  house  lamb  bears  an  ex- 
traordinary price,  the  hind  quarter  of  a  large  pig  will  be  a 
very  good  substitute  for  it.  Take  off  the  skin  and  roast  it, 
and  it  will  eat  like  lamb.  Serve  with  mint  sauce,  or  a  salad. 

Ham  or  Gammon. 

TAKE  off  the  skin  of  the  ham  or  gammon,  when  you  have 
half  boiled  it,  and  dredge  with  oatmeal  sifted  very  fine.  Baste 
with  butter,  and  roast  gently  two  hours.  Stir  up  your  fire, 


40  ROASTING. 

and  then  brown  it  quickly  ;  and  when  so  done  dish  up,  and 
pour  brown  gravy  into  the  dish. 

Calfs  Head. 

WASH  the  head  very  clean,  take  out  the  bones,  and  dry 
well  with  a  cloth.  Make  a  seasoning  of  beaten  mace,  white 
pepper  aud  salt,  some  bacon  cut  very  small,  and  some  grated 
bread.  Strew  this  over  it,  roll  it  up,  skewer  it  with  a  small 
skewer,  and  tie  it  with  tape.  Roast  and  baste  it  with  butter  ; 
make  a  rich  veal-gravy,  thickened  with  butter,  and  roll  it  in 
flour.  Some  like  mushrooms  and  the  fat  part  of  oysters  :  but 
it  is  very  good  without. 

The  German  Way  of  dressing  a  Calf's  Head. 

TAKE  a  large  calf's  head,  with  great  part  of  the  neck  cut 
with  it.  Split  it  in  half,  scald  it  very  white,  and  take  out  the 
jaw-bone.  Take  a  large  stewpati  or  saucepan,  and  lay  at 
the  bottom  some  slices  of  bacon,  then  some  thin  beef  ste..ks, 
with  some  pepper  and  salt.  Then  lay  in  the  head,  pour  in 
some  beef  stock,  a  large  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  and  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs.  Cover  the  stewpan  very  close,  and  set  it  over 
a  stove  to  stew.  Then  make  a  ragout  with  a  quart  of  good 
beef  gravy,  and  half  a  pint  of  red  wine.  Let  the  wine  be 
well  boiled  in  the  gravy ;  add  to  it  some  sweetbreads  par- 
boiled, and  cut  in  slices,  some  cocksy-combs,  oysters,  mush- 
rooms, truffles,  and  morels.  Let  these  stew  till  they  be  ten- 
der. When  the  head  is  stewed,  take  it  up,  put  it  into  a  dish, 
take  out  the  brains,  the  eyes,  and  the  bones.  Then  slit  the 
ton«£ue,cut  it  into  small  pieces,  cut  the  eyes  in  pieces  also, 
and  chop  the  brains  ;  put  these  into  a  baking-dish,  and  pour 
some  of  the  ragout  over  them.  Then  take  the  head,  lay  it 
upon  the  ragout,  pour  the  rest  over  it,  and  on  that  some  melted 
butter.  Then  scrape  some  fine  Parmesan  cheese,  and  *trew 
it  over  the  butter,  and  send  it  to  the  oven.  It  does  not  want 
much  baking,  but  only  requires  tabe  of  a  fine  brown. 

Calfs  Liver. 

WASH  and  wipe  it ;  cut  a  long  hole  in  it,  and  fill  it  up 
with  a  stuffing  made  of  grated  bread,  chopped  anchovy,  sweet 
herbs,  fat  bacon  shred  fine,  onion,  salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  but- 
ter, and  an  egg:  sew  the  liver  up  ;  then  lard  it,  or  wrap  it  in 
a  veal-caul,  and  roast  it.  Serve  with  good  gravy,  and  sweet 
sauce. — See  Sauces. 

Stuffing  for  Turkeys,  Hares,  Rabbits,  Veal,  Kc. 

CHOP  very  fine,  beef  suet,  parsley,  thyme,  eschalots,  a  very 
small  quantity  of  marjorum  ;  savory,  basil,  and  lemon  peel. 


ROASTING.  41 

with  grated  nutmeg,  two  eggs  (or  milk),  pepper,  salt,  and  an 
anchovy  ;  mix  all  together,  with  grated  bread. 

Green  Geese. 

PUT  a  large  lump  of  butter  into  the  goose,  spit  it  and  lay 
it  down  to  the  fire.  Singe  it,  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  baste 
it  well  with  butter.  Baste  it  three  or  four  different  times  with 
cold  butter,  which  will  make  the  flesh  rise  much  better  than 
if  it  were  basted  with  the  contents  of  the  dripping-pan.  If  the 
goose  be  a  large  one,  it  must  be  kept  to  the  fire  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour;  and  when  you  think  it  is  enough,  dredge  it 
with  flour,  baste  it  till  a  fine  froth  rises  on  it,  and  the  goose 
be  of  a  nice  brown. — See  Sauces. 

Stubble  Geese. 

TAKE  a  few  sage  leaves  and  two  onions,  and  chop  them  as 
fine  as  possible.  Mix  them  with  a  large  piece  of  butter,  two 
spoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper.  Put  this  into  the  goose, 
spit  it,  and  lay  it  down  to  the  fire.  Singe  it,  and  dust  it  with 
flour,  and  when  it  is  thoroughly  hot,  baste  it  with  fresh  but- 
ter. A  large  goose  will  require  an  hour  and  a  half  before  a 
good  fire,  and  when  it  is  done,  dredge  it  and  baste  it,  pull  out 
the  spit,  and  pour  in  a  little  boiling  water. — See  Sauces. 

Chickens. 

PLUCK  your  chickens  very  carefully,  d/aw  them,  and  cut 
off  their  claws  only,  and  truss  them.  Put  them  down  to  a 
good  fire,  singe,  dust,  and  baste  them  with  butter.  A  quarter 
of  an  hour  wrill  roast  them  ;  and  when  they  are  enough,  froth 
them,  and  lay  them  on  your  dish.  Serve  up  with  parsley  and 
butter,  or  white  sauce. — See  Sauces. 

Fowls. 

HAVING  cleansed  and  dressed  your  large  fowls,  put  them 
down  to  a  good  fire,  singe,  dust,  and  baste  them  well  with 
butter.  They  must  be  near  an  hour  at  the  fire.  Make  your 
gravy  of  the  necks  and  gizzards,  and  when  you  have  strained 
it,  put  in  a  spoonful  of  browning.  Take  up  your  fowls,  pom- 
some  gravy  into  a  dish,  and  serve  them  up  with  egg  sauce. 
— See  Sauces. 

Pheasants. 

PHEASANTS  and  partridges  may  be  treated  in  the  same 
manner.  Dust  them  with  flour,  and  baste  them  often  with 
fresh  butter,  keeping  them  at  a  good  distance  from  the  fire. 
A  good  fire  will  roast  them  in  half  an  hour.  Serve  up  with 
poivrade  sauce,  and  bread  sauce. — See  Sauces. 


Fowls,  Pheasant  fashion. 

IF  you  should  have  but  one  pheasant,  and  want  two  in  a 
dish,  take  a  large  full-grown  fowl,  keep  the  head  on,  and 
truss  it  just  as  you  do  a  pheasant.  Lard  it  with  bacon,  but 
do  not  lard  the  pheasant,  and  no  bt>dy  will  know  it. 

Pigeons. 

SCALD,  draw,  and  take  the  craws  clean  out  of  your  pigeons. 
and  wash  them  in  several  waters.  When  you  have  dried 
them,  roll  a  good  lump  of  butter  in  chopped  parsley,  and  sea- 
son it  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  this  into  your  pigeons,  and 
spit,  dust,  and  baste  them.  A  good  fire  will  roast  them  in 
twenty  minutes,  and  when  they  are  enough,  serve  them  up 
with  parsley  and  butter.  —  See  Sauces. 

Larks. 

'SKEWER  a  dozen  larks,  and  tie  both  ends  of  the  skewer  to 
the  spit.  Dredge  and  baste  them,  and  let  them  roast  ten 
minutes.  Break  half  a  penny  loaf  into  crumbs,  and  put  them, 
with  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  into  a  toss- 
ing pan,  and  having  shaken  them  over  a  gentle  fire  till  they 
are  of  a  light  brown,  lay  them  between  the  birds,  and  pour  a 
little  melted  butter  over  them. 

Larks  roasted  a  la  Francois. 

WHEN  the  larks  are  trussed,  put  a  sage  or  vine  leaf  over 
their  breasts:  and  having  put  them  on  a  long  skewer,  put  be- 
tween every  lark  a  thin  piece  of  bacon.  Tie  the  skewer  to 
the  spit,  and  roast  the  birds  before  a  clear  brisk  fire.  Baste 
with  butter,  and  on  removing  the  leaves,  strew  on  them  some 
grated  bread,  mixed  with  a  little  flour.  When  neatly  roasted, 
put  the  larks  round  a  dish,  with  grated  bread  fried  in  butter,  in 
the  middle. 

Quails. 

'•-  :  • 

TRUSS  the  quails,  and  make  a  stuffing  for  them  with  beef 
suet  and  sweet  herbs  chopped  very  small,  seasoned  with  a 
little  spice.  Put  them  upon  a  small  spit,  and  when  they  grow 
warm  baste  them  with  water  and  salt  ;  then  dredge  them  and 
baste  them  with  butter.  For  sauce,  dissolve  an  anchovy  in 
good  gravy,  with  two  or  three  eschalots  cut  very  fine,  and  the 
juice  of  a  Seville  orange.  Lay  some  fried  bread  crumbs 
round  the  dish.  —  See  Sauces. 


ROASTING.  43 

Ducks. 

KILL  and  draw  your  ducks  ;  then  shred  an  onion,  and  a 
few  sage  leaves.  Season  these  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put 
them  into  your  ducks.  Singe,  dust,  and  baste  them  with  but- 
ter, and  a  good  fire  will  roast  them  in  twenty  minutes;  for  the 
quicker  they  are  done  the  better  they  will  be.  Before  you 
take  them  up,  dust  them  with  flour,  and  baste  them  with  but- 
ter to  give  them  a  good  frothing,  and  a  pleasing  brown. 
Your  gravy  must  be  made  of  the  gizzard  and  pinions,  an 
onion,  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon-pickle,  a  few  pepper  corns, 
and  a  large  blade  of  mace,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  and  the 
same  of  browning.  Strain  it  and  pour  into  your  dish. 

Turkeys. 

HAVING  dressed  your  turkey,  according  to  the  preparatory 
directions  already  given  for  boiling  it,  truss  its  head  down  to 
the  legs,  and  make  your  stuffing  as  before  directed.  Spit  it, 
and  lay  it  down  to  a  good  fire,  which  must  be  clear  and  brisk. 
Singe,  dust  it  with  flour,  and  baste  it  several  times  with  cold 
butter,  which  will  froth  it  much  better  than  the  hot  contents 
of  the  dripping-pan,  and  make  the  turkey  more  plump.  When 
properly  done,  renew  the  frothing  in  the  same  manner  as  be- 
fore, and  dish  up.  A  middling  sized  turkey  must  be  down  at 
the  fire  an  hour  and  a  quarter. — See  Sauces. 

Ruff's  and  Rees. 

THESE  birds  are  said  to  be  peculiar  to  Lincolnshire,  being 
very  rarely  found  in  any  other  county.  '  The  properest  food 
to  give  them  is  white  bread  and  boiled  milk,  and  they  will  be 
fat  in  about  eight  or  ten  days ;  but  they  must  be  fed  separate- 
ly, they  being  so  delicate  a  bird,  that  they  will  riot  both  eat 
out  of  the  same  pot  or  trough.  When  you  kill  them,  strip 
the  skin  off  the  head  and  neck,  with  the  feathers  on,  and  then 
pluck  and  draw  them.  Put  them  at  a  good  distance  from  the 
fire  in  roasting,  and  they  will  be  done  enough  in  about  twelve 
minutes,  if  the  fire  be  good.  When  you  take  them  up,  slip 
the  skin  on  again  with  the  feathers  on.  Garnish  the  dish 
with  crisp  crumbs  of  bread  round  it,  and  send  them  up  with 
gravy  under  them,  such  as  is  directed  for  the  pheasant,  and 
bread  sauce  in  a  boat. — See  Sauces. 

Rabbits. 

CASE  your  rabbits,  skewer  their  heads  with  their  mouths 
upon  their  backs,  stick  their  fore  legs  into  their  ribs  and 
ikewer  the  hind  legs  double.  Use  the  stuffing  before  di- 


44>  ROASTING. 

reeled.  Put  it  into  their  bellies,  sew  them  up,  and  dredge 
and  baste  them  well  with  butter.  Take  them  up  when  they 
have  roasted  an  hour  ;  chop  the  livers,  and  lay  them  in  lumps 
round  the  edge  of  your  dish.  Serve  them  up  with  parsley  and 
butter  for  sauce. — See  Sauces. 

Rabbits  dressed  Hare  Fashion. 

LARD  your  rabbit  with  bacon,  and  roast  it  in  the  manner 
of  a  hare.  If  you  lard  it,  you  must  make  gravy  sauce  ;  but 
if  it  be  not  larded,  white  sauce  will  be  most  proper. — See 
Sauces. 

Hares. 

HAVING  skewered  your  hare  with  the  head  upon  one 
shoulder,  the  fore  legs  stuck  into  the  ribs,  and  the  hind  legs 
double,proced  to  make  your  stuffing  as  before  directed.  While 
roasting,  dredge  with  flower,  and  baste  with  milk,  and  so 
alternately,  till  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the  hare  is  done  : 
then  baste  it  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  put 
into  the  dripping  pan.  Serve  up  with  a  cullis  sauce,  and  cur- 
rant jelly. — See  Sauces. 

Woodcocks  and  Snipes. 

HAVING  put  your  birds  on  a  little  spit,  take  a  round  of  a 
threepenny  loaf,  and  toast  it  brown  ;  lay  it  in  a  dish  under  the 
birds ;  and  when  you  lay  them  down  to  the  fire,  baste  them 
with  a  little  butter,  and  let  the  trail  drop  on  the  toast.  When 
they  be  roasted  enough,  put  the  toast  in  the  dish,  and  lay  the 
birds  on  it.  Pour  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  gravy  into  the 
dish,  and  set  it  over  a  lamp  or  chafing-dish,  for  three  or  four 
minutes,  when  the  whole  will  be  in  a  proper  condition  to  be 
sent  to  the  table.  Observe  never  to  take  any  thing  out  of  a 
woodcock  or  snipe. 

Eels  and  Lampreys. 

EELS  and  lampreys  are  roasted  with  puddings  in  their  bel- 
lies in  the  same  manner.  Cut  off  their  heads,  gut  them,  and 
take  off  the  blood  from  the  bone  as  clean  as  possible.  Make 
a  forcemeat  of  shrimps  or  oysters,  chopped  small,  half  a 
penny  loaf  crumbled,  a  little  lemon-peel  shred  fine,  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  and  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Put  this 
into  the  bellies  of  the  fish,  sew  them  up,  and  turn  them  round 
on  the  dish.  Put  flour  and  butter  over  them,  pour  a  little 
water  into  the  dish,  and  bake  them  in  a-moderate  oven.  When 
vou  take  them  out,  take  the  gravy  from  under  them,  and 
skim  off  the  fat,  strain  it  through  an  hair  sieve,  and  add  to  it 


BAKING.  45 

a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  two  of  browning,  a  large 
spoonful  of  walnut  ketchup,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  an- 
chovy, and  a  slice  of  lemon.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  and 
thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour.  Lemon  and  crisp  parsley 
may  serve  as  a  garnish. 

Lobsters. 

PiTT  a  skewer  into  the  vent  of  the  tail  of  the  lobster,  to  pre- 
vent the  water  from  getting  into  the  body  of  it,  and  put  it  into 
a  pan  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt  in  it,  and  if  it  be  a 
large  one,  it  will  take  half  an  hour  boiling.  Then  lay  it  before 
the  fire,  and  baste  it  with  butter  till  it  has  a  fine  froth.  Dish 
it  up  with  plain  melted  butter  io  a  boat.  This  is  a  better  way 
than  actually  roasting  them,  and  is  not  attended  with  hajf  the 
trouble. 

Cod's  Head. 

HAVING  washed  the  head  very  clean,  and  scored  it  with 
a  knife,  strew  a  little  salt  on  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  large  tin  oven 
before  the  fire.  Throw  away  all  the  water  that  comes  from 
it  for  the  first  half  hour ;  then  sprinkle  on  a  little  nutmeg, 
cloves,  mace  beat  fine,,  and  salt.  Flour,  and  baste  it  with 
butter.  When  that  has  lain  some  time,  turn  and  season  it, 
and  baste  the  other  side  the  same.  Turn  it  often,  then  baste 
it  with  butter  and  crumbs  of  bread.  If  it  be  a  large  head  it 
will  take  four  or  five  hours  baking.  Have  ready  some  melted 
butter  wi||um  anchovy,  some  of  the  liver  of  the  fish  boiled 
and  bruised  fine,  and  mix  it  well  with  the  butter,  and  two 
yolks  of  eggs  beat  fine.  Then  strain  them  through  a  sieve,  and 
put  them  into  the  saucepan,  with  a  few  shrimps  or  pickled 
cockles,  two  spoonfuls  of  red  wine,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ; 
serve  up. 


CHAPTER  V. 
BAKING. 

Leg  of  Beef. 

(_/UT  the  meat  off  a  leg  of  beef,  and  break  the  bones;  put 
it  into  an  earthen  pan,  with  two  onions  and  a  bundle  of  sweet 
herbs,  and  season  it  with  a  spoonful  of  whole  pepper,  and  a 
few  cloves  and  blades  of  mace.  Cover  it  with  water,  and 
having  tied  the  pot  down  close  with  brown  paper,  put  it  into 


BAKIN(;. 

the  oven  to  bake.  As  soon  as  it  is  enough,  take  it  out  and 
strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  pick  out  all  the  fat  and  sinews, 
putting  thenvmto  a  saucepan,  with  a  little  gravy,  and  a  piece 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Set  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  shake 
it  often,  and  when  it  is  thoroughly  hot,  pour  it  into  the  dish.. 
and  send  it  to  table.  Ox  cheek' may  be  done  in  the  same 
manner;  and  if  you  should  think  it  too  strong,  you  may 
weaken  it  by  pouring  in  a  suflicient  quantity  of  hot  \va?n  . 
but  cold  water  will  spoil  it. 

Rump  of  Beef . 

TAKE  a  rump  of  beef  and  bone  it,  beat  it  well  with  a  roll- 
ing pin,  cut  off  the  sinew,  and  lard  it  with  a  large  piece  of 
bacon.  Season  your  lards  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cloves :  and 
lard  across  the  meat,  that  it  may  cut  handsomely.  Season 
every  part  of  the  meat  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cloves;  put  them 
in  an  earthen  pot,  with  all  the  broken  bones,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  some  bay  leaves,  some  whole  pepper,  one  or  two  sha- 
lots,  and  some  sweet  herbs.  Cover  the  top  of  the  pan  well ; 
then  put  it  in  an  oven  ;  and  let  it  stand  eight  hours.  Serve' it 
up  with  some  dried  sippits,  and  its  own  liquor. 

Calf's  Head. 

TAKE  a  calf's  head,  and  pick  and  wash  it  very  clean.  Get 
an  earthen  dish  large  enough  to  hold  the  head,  and  rub  the 
inside  of  the  dish  with  butter.  Lay  some  long  iron  skewers 
across  the  top  of  the  dish,  and  lay  the  head  on  them.  Skewer 
up  the  meat  in  the  middle,  that  it  may  not  touch  the  dish, 
and  then  grate  some  nutmeg  on  every  part  of  it,  a  few  sweet 
herbs,  shred  small,  some  crumbs  of  bread,  and  a  little  lemon- 
peel  cut  fine.  Then  flour  it  all  over,  and  having  stuck  pieces 
of  butter  in  the  eyes,  and  on  different  parts  of  the  head, 
flour  it  again.  Let  it  be  well  baked,  of  a  fine  brown.  You  may- 
throw  a  little  pepper  and  salt  over  it,  and  put  into  the  dish  a 
piece  of  beef  cut  small,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  a 
blade  of  mace,  some  whole  pepper,  two  cloves,  a  pint  of  water, 
and  boil  the  brains  with  some  sage.  When  the  head  is 
enough,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  and  put  it  before  the  fire  to  keep 
warm  ;  then  stir  all  together  in  the  dish,  and  put  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  then  strain  it  off,  and  put  it  into  the  saucepan  again. 
Put  into  it  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  the  sage  and  the 
brains  chopped  fine,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  and  two  spoon- 
fpjs  of  red  wine.  Boil  them  together,  take  the  brains,  beat 
f*iem  well,  and  mix  them  with  the  sauce.  Pour  all  into  the 
dish,  and  send  it  to  table.  The  tongue  must  be  baked  in  the 
head,  and  not  cut  out,  as  the  head  will  then  lie  in  the  dish 
more  handsomely. 


BAKING.  ¥1 

Pigs. 

WHEN  necessity  obliges  you  to  bake  a  pig,  lay  it  in  a  dish, 
tlour  it  well  all  over,  and  rub  the  pig  over  with  butter.  But- 
ter the  dish  in  which  you  intend  to  put  it,  and  put  it  in  the 
oven.  Take  it  out  as  soon  as  it  is  enough;  and  having  rub- 
bed it  over  with  a  butter  cloth,  put  it  into  the  oven  again  till 
it  be  dry  ;  then  take  it  out,  lay  it  in  a  dish,  and  cut  it  up. 
Take  off*  the  fat  from  the  dish  it  was  baked  in,  and  some 
good  gravy  will  remain  at  the  bottom.  Add  to  this  a  litrie 
veal  gravy,  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  boil  it 
up ;  put  it  into  the  dish,  with  the  brains  and  sage  in  the 
belly. 

Salmon. 

CUT  a  piece  of  salmon  in  slices  of  an  inch  thick,  and  make 
forcemeat  as  follows :  take  some  of  the  flesh  of  the  salmon, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  the  meat  of  an  eel,  with  a  few  mush- 
rooms. Season  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  cloves.  Beat 
all  together  till  very  fine.  Boil  the  crumb  of  a  halfpenny  roll 
in  milk,  beat  it  with  four  eggs  till  it  be  thick,  then  let  it  cool, 
and  mix  it. all  together  with  four  raw  eggs.  Take  the  skin 
from  the  salmon,  and  lay  the  slices  in  a  dish.  Cover  every 
slice  with  forced  meat,  pour  some  melted  butter  over  them, 
and  add  a  few  crumbs  of  bread.  Lay  a  crust  round  the  dish, 
and  stick  oysters  round  it.  Put  it  into  an  oven,  and,  when  it  is 
of  a  fine  brown,  pour  over  it  a  little  melted  butter,  with  some 
red  wine  boiled  in  it,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Carp. 

HAVING  scaled,  washed,  and  cleaned  a  brace  of  carp  pro- 
perly, get  an  earthen  pan  deep  enough  for  them  to  lie  in 
properly ;  and  having  buttered  the  pan  a  little,  lay  in  the 
carp.  Season  them  with  a  little  black  and  white  pepper,  mace, 
cloves,  nutmegs,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  and  an 
anchovy  ;  pour  in  a  bottle  of  white  wine,  cover  them  close, 
and  put  them  into  a  hot  oven.  If  they  are  large,  they  will 
require  an  hour  baking ;  but  if  small,  less  time  will  do 
them.  When  they  are  enough,  take  them  up  carefully,  and 
lay  them  in  a  dish.  Set  it  over  hot  water  to  keep  hot,  and 
cover  close.  Pour  all  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  baked 
into  a  saucepan  ;  let  it  boil  a  minute  or  two,  strain  it,  and 
add  half  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Keep  stirring  '*+ 
all  the  time  it  is  boiling  ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemc.i, 
and  put  in  a  proper  quantity  of  salt,  observing  to  skim  all  the 
fat  off"  the  liquor.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish,  lay  the  roes 
round  them,  and  garnish  with  lemon. 


48  BAKING. 

| 

Cod's  Head. 

MAKE  the  head  very  clean,  and  lay  it  in  the  pan,  which 
you  must  first  rub  round  with  butter.  Put  in  a  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  three  or  four  blades 
of  mace,  half  a  large  spoonful  of  black  and  white  pepper, 
part  of  a  nutmeg  bruised,  a  quart  of  water,  a  little  piece  of 
lemon-peel,  and  a  little  piece  of  horse-radish.  Dust  the  head 
with  flour,  stick  a  piece  of  butter  on  various  parts  of  it,  and 
sprinkle  raspings  all  over  it,  put  it  into  the  oven,  and  when 
enough,  take  it  out  of  the  dish,  and  lay  it  carefully  in  the 
dish  in  which  you  intend  to  serve  it  up.  Set  the  dish  over 
boiling  water,  and  cover  it  up  close,  to  prevent  its  getting 
cold.  In  the  meantime,  as  expeditiously  as  you  can,  pour  all 
the  liquor  out  of  the  dish,  in  which  it  was  baked,  into  a  sauce- 
pan, and  let  it  boil  three  or  four  minutes;  then  strain  it,  and 
put  in  a  gill  of  red  wine,  two  spoonfuls  of  ketchup,  a  pint  of 
shrimps,  half  a  pint  of  oysters,  a  spoonful  of  mushroom 
pickle,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  stir 
all  together  till  it  be  thick  and  boils :  then  strain  it,  and  pour 
it  into  the  dish,  and  have  ready  some  toast,  cut  three  corner 
ways,  and  fried  crisp.  Stick  pieces  of  the  toast  about  the 
head  and  mouth,  and  lay  the  remainder  round  the  head. 

Herrings. 

HAVING  scaled,  washed,  and  dried  your  herrings  properly,, 
lay  them  on  a  board,  and  take  a  little  black  pepper  whole, 
allspice  in  fine  powder,  a  few  whole  cloves,  and  plenty  of  salt ; 
mix  them  together,  and  rub  the  fish  all  over  with  it.  Lay 
them  in  a  pot,  cover  them  with  half  vinegar  and  half  small 
beer,  tie  a  strong  paper  over  the  pot,  and  bake  them  in  a 
moderate  oven.  .They  may  be  eaten  either  hot  or  cold,  and 
they  will  keep  good  two  or  three  months. 

Sprats. 

MAY  be  dressed  in  the  same  manner,  only  they  should  be 
slightly  rubbed  with  saltpetre  the  preceding  night ;  in  order 
to  make  them  red. 


BROILING.  49 


CHAPTER  VI. 


BROILING. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

JJEFORE  you  lay  your  meat  on  the  gridiron,  be  careful 
that  your  fire  be  very  clear:  the  kind  or  cinder  termed  coak 
makes  the  best  fire  for  broiling.  Let  your  gridiron  be  very 
clean,  and  when  heated  by  the  fire,  rub  the  bars  with  clean 
mutton  suet:  this  will  both  prevent  the  meat  from  being  dis- 
coloured, and  hinder  it  from  sticking.  Turn  your  meat 
quickly  while  broiling,  and  have  a  dish,  placed  on  a  chafing- 
dish  of  hot  coals,  to  put  your  meat  in  as  fast  as  it  is  ready, 
and  carry  it  hot  and  covered  to  table.  Observe  never  to  baste 
any  thing  on  the  gridiron,  because  that  may  be  the  means  of 
burning  it,  and  making  it  smoky. 

Beef  Steaks. 

THE  best  beef  steaks  are  those  cut  off  a  rump,  and  should 
not  be  more  than  half  an  inch  in  thickness.  Lay  on  the 
steaks,  and  turn  them  often  to  keep  in  the  gravy;  or,  having 
put  them  on  the  gridiron,  keep  them  continually  turning; 
whilst  dressing,  lay  upon  them  a  piece  of  fat ;  and  when 
taken  from  the  fire,  put  upon  them  a  little  grated  horse-radish, 
together  with  a  small  portion  of  butter,  mixed  with  white 
pepper  and  salt.  Put  into  the  dish  a  little  hot  gravy,  in  which 
let  there  be  shred  some  eschalot,  or  young  onions, 

Mutton  Chops. 

TAKE  a  loin  of  mutton,  and  cut  chops  from  it  about  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  cut  off  the  skin,  and  part  of  the  fat.  Keep 
turning  them  often,  and  take  care  that  the  fat  which  fulls  from 
them  do  not  make  the  fire  blaze  and  smoke  your  chops.  Put 
them  into  a  dish  as  soon  as  you  think  they  are  done,  and  rub 
them  with  butter.  Slice  an  eschalot  very  thin  into  a  spoonful 
of  water,  and  pour  it  on  them  with  a  spoonful  of  mushroom 
ketchup,  and  a  little  salt.  Or  cut  the  best  part  of  a  neck  of 
mutton  into  chops,  having  previously  cut  off  the  fat,  and  sea- 
son them  with  white  pepper  and  sak :  keep  frequently  turning 
them.  When  sufficiently  done,  serve  them  up  as  hot  as  pos- 
sible. 


M>  BROILING, 

Pork  Chops. 

THE  same  rules  we  have  laid  down  for  broiling  mutton, 
will  hold  good  with  respect  to  pork  chops,  with  this  difference 
only,  that  pork  requires  more  broiling  than  mutton.  As  soon 
as  they  are  enough,  put  a  little  good  gravy  to  them,  and 
strew  a  little  sage,  rubbed  fine,  over  them,  which  will  give- 
them  an  agreeable  flavour. 

Chickens, 

HAVING  slitted  your  chickens  down  the  back,  season  them 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  lay  them  on  the  gridiron,  over  a 
clear  fire,  and  at  a  great  distance.  Let  the  inside  continue 
next  the  fire,  till  it  be  nearly  half  done.  Then  turn  them, 
taking  care  that  the  fleshy  sides  do  not  burn,  and  let  them 
broil  till  they  are  of  a  fine  brown.  Have  good  gravy  sauce, 
with  some  mushrooms,  and  garnish  them  with  lemon,  and 
the  liver  broiled,  and  the  gizzards  cut,  slashed,  and  broiled 
with  pepper  and  salt. — See  Sauces, 

Pigeons. 

WHEN  you  broil  pigeons,  take  care  that  your  fire  be  clear. 
Take  some  parsley  shred  fine,  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a 
walnut,  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  it  into  their 
bellies.  Tie  them  at  both  ends,  and  put  them  on  the  grid- 
iron. Or  you  may  split  and  broil  them,  having  first  seasoned 
them  with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  them  up  with  a  little  parsley 
and  butter. 

Broiled  Fish  prepared  thus : 

WIPE  the  fish  dry,  flour  them  well,  and  have  the  gridiron 
clean  ;  then  rub  the  bars  with  a  veal  caul,  and  put  the  fish  at 
a  proper  distance.  Broil  them  gently  over  a  clear  fire  till  of 
a  fine  colour,  and  serve  them  up  directly.  Fish  in  general  to 
be  floured,  except  herrings,  which  are  only  to  be  scored  with 
a  knife. 

Weavers. 

GUT,  and  wash  clean;  dry  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  flour; 
then  broil  them.  Serve  with  plain  butter  and  anchovy  sauce, 
— See  Sauces. 

Cod. 

CUT  the  cod  into  slices  about  two  inches  thick,  and  dry 
*nd  flour  them  well.  Make  a  good  clear  fire,  rub  the  grid- 


BftOlLlNG.  51 

iron  with  a  piece  of  chalk,  and  set  it  high  from  the  fire. 
Turn  them  often,  till  they  be  quite  enough,  and  of  a  fine 
hrovvn.  They  require  a  great  deal  of  care  to  prevent  them 
from  breaking.  Lobster  or  shrimp  sauce. — See  Sauces. 

Crimped  Cod. 

PUT  a  gallon  of  pump  water  into  a  pot,  and  set  it  on  the 
fire,  with  a  handful  of  salt.  Boil  it  up  several  times,  and 
keep  it  clean  scummed.  When  well  cleared  from  the  scum, 
take  a  middling  cod,  as  fresh  as  possible,  and  throw  it  into  a 
tub  of  fresh  pump  water.  Let  it  lie  a  few  minutes,  and  then 
cut  it  into  slices  two  inches  thick.  Throw  these  into  the 
boiling  brine,  and  let  it  boil  briskly  a  few  minutes.  Then 
take  out  the  slices,  take  great  care  not  to  break  them,  and  lay 
them  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  When  they  are  well  dried,  flour 
them,  and  lay  them  at  a  distance  upon  a  very  good  fire  to 
broil.  Lobster  or  shrimp  sauces. — See  Sauces. 

Trout. 

CLEAN  and  wash,  and  dry  them  well  in  a  cloth  ;  tie  theni 
round  with  packthread  from  top  to  bottom,  to  keep  them  entire 
and  in  shape.  Then  melt  some  butter,  with  a  good  deal  of 
basket  salt.  Pour  it  all  over  the  trout  till  it  is  perfectly  covered ; 
then  put  it  on  a  clear  fire,  at  a  great  distance,  that  it  may  do 
gradually.  When  done,  lay  it  in  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  with 
anchovy  sauce. 

Cod  Sounds. 

LAY  them  a  few  minutes  in  hot  water,  then  take  them  out, 
and  rub  them  well  with  salt,  and  take  off  the  skin  and  black 
dirt.  Put  them  into  water,  and  boil  till  tender.  Take  them 
out,  flour  them  well,  pepper  and  salt  them,  and  then  put 
them  on  the  gridiron.  Whilst  broiling,  season  a  little  good 
brown  gravy  with  pepper,  salt,  a  tea  spoonful  of  soy,  and  a 
little  mustard  :  give  it  a  boil  with  a  bit  of  flour  and  butter, 
and  pour  it  over  the  sounds. 

Lobsters. 

WHEN  the  lobsters  are  broiled,  split  their  tails  and  chines, 
crack  their  claws,  and  pepper  and  salt  them.  Take  out  their 
bodies,  and  what  is  called  the  lady.  Then  put  them  again 
into  the  shel!s,  and  then  upon  the  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire, 
as  also  the  tails  and  the  claws.  Baste  them  with  butter,  and 
send  them  to  table,  with  melted  butter  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Mackerel. 
HAVING  cleaned  your  mackerel,  wipe  dry ,  split  them  down  the 


$2  BROILING. 

back,  and  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt.     Flour  them, 
and  broil  them  of  a  fine  light  brown. — See  Sauces. 

If  you  choose  to  broil  your  mackerel  whole,  wash  them 
clean,  cut  off  their  heads,  and  pull  out  their  roes  at  the  neck 
end.  Boil  their  roes  in  a  little  water;  then  bruise  them  with 
a  spoon,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  little  nutmeg,  a  little 
lemon  peel  cut  fine,  some  thyme,  some  parsley,  boiled  and 
chopped  fine,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  few  crumbs  of 
bread.  Mix  these  well  together,  and  fill  the  fish  with  them. 
Flour  them  well,  and  broil^  them  nicely.  Butter,  ketchup, 
and  walnut  pickle,  will  make  a  proper  sauce. 

Salmon. 

TAKE  pieces  or  slices  of  salmon,  wipe  dry,  dip  in  sweet 
oil  (or  for  want  of  oil,  in  fres'i  butter  that  has  been  oiled), 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  fold  them  in  pieces  of 
writing  paper,  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  and  serve  them  up  hot. 

Eels. 

.  HAVING  skinnedj  gutted,  and  washed  your  eels,  dry  them 
with  a  cloth,  and  rub  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Strew 
grated  bread  over  them  and  chopped  parsley,  and  sea- 
son them  with  pepper  and  salt.  Baste  them  well  with  butter, 
and  broil  them  on  a  gridiron.  Serve  with  parsley  and  butter, 
and  anchovy  sauce. 

Eels  pitch-cocked. 

HAVING  skinned  and  cleansed  your  eels  as  before,  sprinkle 
them  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  dried  sage.  Turn  them 
backward  and  forward,  and  skewer  them.  Rub  your  gridiron 
with  beef  suet,  and  broil  them  till  they  are  of  a  fine  brown. 
Put  them  on  your  dish,  serve  them  up  with  melted  butter, 
and  lay  fried  parsley  round  the  dish. 

Haddocks  and  Whitings. 

HAVING  gutted  and  washed  your  fish,  dry  them  with  a 
cloth,  and  rub  a  little  vinegar  over  them,  which  will  contri- 
bute to  preserve  the  skin  whole.  Dredge  them  well  with 
flour,  and  rub  your  gridiron  with  beef  suet.  Let  your  grid- 
iron he  very  hot  when  you  lay  your  fish  on,  otherwise  they 
will  stick  to  it.  Turn  them  two  or  three  times  while  they 
are  broiling,  and  when  enough,  serve  up  with  melted  butter 
and  anchovy  sauce. 

Another  method  is,  when  you  have  cleansed  and  dried  your 
fish  as  before  directed,  put  them  in  a  tin  oven,  and  set  them 
before  a  quick  fire.  Take  them  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the 
skin  begins  to  rise,  and  having  beaten  up  an  egg,  rub  it  over 


BROILING.  53 

them  with  a  feather.  Sprinkle  a  few  crumbs  of  bread  over 
them,  dredge  them  well  with  flour,  and  rub  your  gridiron 
when  hot  with  suet  or  butter ;  but  it  must  be  very  hot  before 
you  lay  your  fish  on  it.  When  you  have  turned  them,  rub  a 
little  butter  over  them,  and  keep  turning  them  as  the  fire  may 
require,  till  they  be  enough,  which  may  be  known  by  their 
browning.  Serve  them  up  with  either  shrimp  sauce,  or  melted 
butter  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Mullets. 
ARE  to  be  dressed  as  directed  for  salmon. 

Herrings. 

SCALE,  gut,  and  wash  clean,  dry  in  a  cloth ;  score,  and 
broil  them.  Plain  butter  and  mustard  for  sauce. 

Potatoes. 

HAVING  first  boiled  them,  peel  them,  cut  them  into  two, 
and  broil  them  till  they  are  brown  on  both  sides.  Then  lay 
them  in  the  plate  or  dish,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  them. 

Mushrooms. 

CLEAN  fresh  mushrooms  with  a  knife,  wash  and  drain  them  : 
make  a  case  with  a  sheet  of  white  paper ;  rub  the  inside  well 
with  fresh  butter,  and  fill  it  with  the  mushrooms ;  season  them 
with  white  pepper  arid  salt ;  put  the  case  containing  them 
upon  a  baking  plate  of  cast  iron  (in  the  country  called  a  back- 
stone)  over  a  slow  fire ;  cover  them  with  the  cover  of  a  stew- 
pot,  upon  which  place  some  fire,  and  when  nearly  dry,  serve 
them  up,  with  some  rich  cullis. — See  Sauces. 

Eggs. 

HAVING  cut  a  toast  round  a  quartern  loaf,  brown  it,  lay  it 
on  your  dish,  butter  it,  and  very  carefully  break  six  or  eight 
eggs  on  the  toast.  Take  a  red  hot  shovel,  and  hotd  it  over 
them.  When  done,  squeeze  &  Seville  orange  over  them, 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it,  and  serve  it  up  for  a  side-plate. 
Or  you  may  poach  your  eggs,  and  lay  them  on  a  toast;  or 
toast  your  bread  crisp,  and  pour  a  little  boiling  water  over 
it.  Season  it  with  a  little  salt,  and  then  lay  your  poached 
eggs  on  it. 


54  FRYING. 


CHAPTER  VII. 
FRYING. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

JJE  careful  always  to  keep  your  frying-pan  clean,  and  see 
that  it  is  properly  tinned.  When  you  fry  any  sort  of  fish, 
first  dry  them  in 'a  cloth,  and  then  flour  them.  Put  into 
your  frying-pan  plenty  of  dripping  or  hog's  lard,  and  let  it  be 
boiling  hot  before  you  put  in  your  fish.  Butter  is  not  so  good 
for  the  purpose,  as  it  is  apt  to  burn  and  blacken  the  fish,  and 
make  them  soft.  When  you  have  fried  your  fish,  lay  them 
in  a  dish  or  hair  sieve  to  drain,  before  you  send  them  up  to 
table. 

Venison. 

BONE  your  venison,  if  it  be  either  the  neck  or  breast ;  but 
if  it  be  the  shoulder,  the  meat  must  be  cut  off  the  bone  in 
slices.  Make  some  gravy  with  the  bones ;  then  take  the  meat 
and  fry  it  of  a  light  brown  ;  take  it  up  and  keep  it  hot  before 
the  fire.  Put  some  flour  to  the  butter  in  the  pan,  and  keep 
stirring  it  till  it  be  quite  thick  and  brown.  Take  care  it  does 
r^ot  burn.  Stir  in  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  beat  to  powder, 
pfit  in  the  gravy  that  came  from  the  bones,  and  some  red 
wine.  Make  it  the  thickness  of  a  fine  cream  ;  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  warm  the  venison  in  it,  put  it  in  the  dish, 
and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

Ox  Feet. 

LET  them  boil  till  they  are  tender ;  then  skin  and  split 
them,  and  take  out  the  bones,  and  fry  them  in  butter.  When 
they  have  fried  a  little,  put  in  some  mint  and  parsley  shred 
small,  a  little  salt,  and  some  beaten  butter;  beat  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  some  mutton  gravy  and  vinegar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
or  orange,  sind  nutmeg.  Lay  it  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  it.  Some  put  a  little  shred  onion  in  it. 

Beef  Steaks. 

HAVING  cut  your  steaks  in  the  same  manner  as  for  broiling, 
put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  good  piece  of  butter,  set 
them  over  a  very  slow  fire,  and  keep  turning  them  till  the 
butter  becomes  of  the  consistence  of  white  gravy.  Pour  it 
into  a  bason,  and  add  more  butter  to  them.  When  they  are 
Dearly  fried,  pour  all  the  gravy  into  a  bason,  and  put  more 


FRYING.  §5 

butter  in  your  pan.  Fry  your  steaks  over  a  brisk  fire  till  they 
are  of  a  light  brown,  and  then  take  them  out  of  the  pan. 
Put  them  into  a  pewter  dish  made  hot,  slice  a  eschalot  among 
them,  andput  in  some  of  the  gravy  that  was  drawn  from- them, 
and  pour  it  hot  upon  them. 

Another  method  is,  take  rump-steaks,  pepper  and  salt 
them,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  butter  very  quick,  and  brown  : 
then  put  them  into  a  dish,  and  pour  the  fat  out  of  the  frying- 
pan.  Take  half  a  pint  of  hot  gravy,  half  a  pint  of  hot  water, 
and  pu:  into  the  pan.  Add  to  it  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  two  or  three  eschalots  chopped 
fine.  Boil  them  up  in  your  pan  for  two  minutes,  and  pour  it 
over  the  steaks  You  may  garnish  with  a  little  scraped  horse- 
radish. Or  fry  the  steaks  in  butter  a  good  brown,  then  put 
in  half  a  pint  of  water,  one  onion  sliced,  a  spoonful  of  walnut 
ketchup,  a  little  chopped  eschalot,  and  some  white  pepper  and 
salt.  When  enough,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  butter, 
and  serve  up  very  hot. 

Loin  or  Neck  of  Lamb. 

HAVING  cut  your  lamb  into  chops,  rub  both  sides  of  them 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  sprinkle  some  grated  bread  ovei 
them,  mixed  with  a  little  parsley,  thyme,  marjoram,  winter 
savory,  and  a  little  lemon-peel,  all  chopped  very  fine.  Fry 
in  butter  till  of  a  nice  light  brown,  and  garnish  with  fried 
parsley. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

CUT  your  veal  into  pieces  about  the  thickness  of  half  a 
crown,  and  as  long  as  you  please.  Dip  them  in  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  and  strew  over  them  grated  bread,  a  few  sweet 
herbs,  some  lemon-peel,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  fry 
them  in  fresh  butter.  While  they  are  frying,  make  a  little 
gravy,  and  when  the  meat  is  done,  take  it  out,  and  lay  it  in 
a  dish  before  the  fire  ;  then  shake  a  little  flour  into  the  pan, 
and  stir  it  round.  Put  in  a  little  gravy  and  pickled  mushrooms^ 
squeeze  in  a  little  lemon,  and  pour  it  over  the  veal. 

Cold  Veal 

CUT  your  veal  into  pieces  of  the  thickness  of  half  a  crown, 
and  as  long  as  you  please.  Dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  then  in  grated  bread,  with  a  few  sweet  herbs,  and  shred 
lemon-peel  in  it.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  them,  and  fry 
them  in  fresh  butter.  The  butter  must  be  hot,  just  enough 
to  fry  them  in.  In  the  meantime,  make  a  little  gravy  of  the 
bone  of  the  veal,  and  when  the  meat  is  fried,  take  it  omt 
with  a  fork,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish  before  the  fire.  Then  shake 


5(5  FRYING. 

a  little  flour  into  the  pan,  and  stir  it  round.  Then  put  in  a 
little  gravy,  squeeze  in  a  little  lemon,  and  pour  it  over  the 
veal  4 

Sweetbreads. 

CUT  them  into  long  slices,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and 
rub  it  over  them  with  a  feather.  Make  a  seasoning  of  pepper, 
salt,  and  grated  bread;  dip  them  into  it,  and  fry  in  butter; 
or  you  mny  fry  them  in  the  following  batter.  For  sauce, 
ketchup  and  butter,  with  gravy  or  lemon  sauce.  Garnish 
with  small  slices  of  toasted  bacon  and  crisped  parsley. — See 
Sauces. 

Batter  for  frying  different  Articles ;  such  as  Celery,  OxPeths, 
Sweetbreads,  Artichoke  Bottoms,  Tripe,  Eggs,  Me. 

TAKE  four  ounces  of  best  flour  sifted,  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, three  eggs,  and  a  gill  of  beer;  beat  them  together  with 
a  wooden  sypoon  for  ten  minutes.  Let  it  be  of  a  good  thick- 
ness to  adhere  to  the  different  articles. 

Tripe. 

CUT  your  tripe  into  pieces  four  inches  long,  and  about 
three  inches  wide  ;  put  it  into  batter,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 
Fry  till  brown ;  then  take  it  out,  and  put  it  to  drain,  and  serve 
it  up  with  plain  butter  in  a  boat:  or  you  may  add  fried 
onions,  and  serve  up  with  butter  and  mustard. 

Sausages. 

TAKE  six  apples,  and  slice  four  of  them  as  thick  as  a  crown 
piece ;  cut  the  other  two  in  quarters,  and  fry  them  with  the 
sausages  till  they  are  brown.  Lay  the  sausages  in  the  middle 
of  the  dish,  and  the  apples  round  them.  Garnish  with  the 
quartered  apples.  Sausages  fried,  and  stewed  cabbage, 
make  a  good  dish.  Heat  cold  pease-pudding  in  a  pan,  lay  it 
in  the  dish,  and  the  sausages  round ;  heap  the  pudding  in 
'the  middle,  and  lay  the  sausages  all  round  up  edgeways,  ex- 
cept one  in  the  middle  at  length. 

Eggs. 

PUT  clarified  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  break  fresh  eggs,  one 
at  a  time  ;  put  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  turn  them 
half  over.  They  should  be  fried  of  a  nice  brown,  but  not 

11 

hard. 

Potatoes. 
CUT  your  potatoes  into  thin  slices,  as  large  as  a  crown  piece, 


FRYING.  51 

and  fry  them  brown.     Lay  them  in  a  dish  or  plate,  and  pour 
melted  butter  over  them. 

Artichokes. 

HAVING  blanched  them  in  water,  flour  them  and  fry  them 
in  fresh  butter.  Lay  them  in  your  dish,  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  them. 

Celery. 

CUT  celery  heads  throe  inches  long,  boil  them  till  half 
done,  wipe  dry,  and  dip  in  batter:  have  read^  boiling  lard, 
take  out  the  heads  singly  with  a  fork,  fry  them  of  a  light  co- 
lour, drain  dry,  and  serve  with  fried  parsley. 

Parsley. 

TAKE  fresh  gathered  parsley,  pick,  wash,  and  drain  it  very 
dry  with  a  cloth :  have  ready  clean  boiling  lard,  put  the  parsley 
into  it,  keep  stirring  with  a  skimmer,  and. when  a  little  crisp, 
take  it  out,  put  it  on  a  drainer,  and  strew  salt  upon  it. 

Turbots. 

THE  turbot  must  be  small ;  cut  it  across  as  if  it  were  ribbed; 
when  it  is  quite  dry,  flour  it,  and  put  it  in  a  large  frying-pan, 
with  boiling  lard  enough  to  cover  it.  Fry  it  till  it  is  brown, 
and  then  drain  it.  Clean  the  pan,  put  into  it  half  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  and  white  gravy  enough  to  cover  it,  anchovy, 
salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  ginger.  Put  in  the  fish,  and  let  it 
stew  till  half  the  liquor  is  wasted.  Then  take  it  out,  and  put 
in  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon. 
Let  them  simmer  till  of  a  proper  thickness ;  rub  a  hot  dish 
with  a  piece  of  eschalot,  lay  the  turbot  in  the  dish,  and  pour 
the  hot  sauce  over  it. 

Soles. 

HAVING  skinned  your  soles  in  the  same  manner  you  do 
eels,  except  taking  off  their  heads,  which  must  not  be  done, 
rub  them  over  with  an  egg,  and  strew  over  them  grated  bread. 
Fry  them  over  a  brisk  fire  in  hog's  lard  till  they  are  brown. 
Serve  them  up  with  melted  butter,  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Smelts. 

DRAW  the  guts  out  at  the  gills,  but  leave  in  the  milt  or 
roe ;  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  beat  an  egg,  rub  it  over  them 
with  a  feather,  and  strew  grated  bread  over  them.  Fry  them 
with  ho^'s  lard,  and  put  in  your  fish  when  boiling  hot.  Shake 
them  a  little,  and  fry  them  till  they  are  of  a  fine  brown. 


A8  TRYING. 

Drain  them  on  a  dish,  or  in  a  sieve.    Fry  a  handful  of  parsley 
in  the  manner  already  directed. 

Oysters, 

WHEN  you  intend  to  fry  your  oysters,  you  must  always 
choose  those  of  the  larger  kind.  Open  twenty-four  large  oys- 
ters, blanch  them  with  their  own  liquor  ;  and  when  three  parts 
done,  strain  them,  and  preserve  the  liquor ;  then  wash,  and 
let  them  drain  :  in  the  meanwhile,  make  a  batter  with  four 
table-spoonfuls  of  Hour,  two  eggs  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
their  liquor.  Beat  it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  mi- 
nutes. Put  the  oysters  into  the  batter,  mix  them  lightly,  and 
have  ready  boiling  lard.  Take  the  oysters  out  singly  with  a 
fork,  put  them  into  the  lard,  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown  co- 
lour. Then  put  them  on  a  drainer,  strew  over  a  small  quantity 
of  salt,  and  serve  them  up.  If  intended  for  a  dish,  put  fried 
parsley  under  them,  or  stewed  spinach. 

Carp. 

SCALE  and  gut  your  carp,  then  wash  them  clean,  lay  them 
in  a  cloth  to  dry,  flour  them,  and  fry  them  of  a  fine  light 
brown.  Take  some  crusts,  cut  tnree-corner  ways,  and  fry 
them  and  the  roes..  When  your  fish  are  done,  lay  them  on  a 
coarse  cloth  to  drain,  and  prepare  anchovy  sauce,  with  the 
juice  of  lemon.  Lay  your  carp  on  the  dish,  the  roes  on  each 
side,  and  garnish  with  lemon  and  the  fried  toast. 

Tench. 

CLEAN  your  fish,  slit  them  along  the  backs,  and  with  the 
point  of  your  knife  raise  the  flesh  from  the  bone.  Cut  the 
skin  across  at  the  head  and  tail,  strip  it  off,  and  take  out  the 
bone.  Take  another  tench,  and  mince  the  flesh  small,  with 
mushrooms,  cives,  and  parsley.  Season  them  with  salt,  pep- 
per, beaten  mace,  nutmeg,  and  a  few  savory  herbs,  minced 
small.  Mix  these  well  together,  pound  them  in  a  mortar 
with  crumbs  of  bread  (in  quantity  about  the  size  of  two  eggs) 
soaked  in  cream,  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  and  a  piece 
of  butter.  When  these  have  been  well  pounded,  stuff  your 
fish  with  it.  Put  clarified  butter  into  a  pan,  set  it  over  the 
fire,  and  when  hot,  flour  your  fish,  and  put  them  into  the 
pan  one  by  one.  Having  fried  them  till  brown,  take  them 
up  and  lay  in  a  coarse  cloth  before  the  fire  to  keep  hot. 
Then  pour  all  the  fat  out  of  the  pan,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  shake  some  flour  into  the  pan.  Keep 
it  stirring  with  a  spoon  till  the  butter  is  a  little  brown,  and 
then  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  white  wine.  Stir  them  together, 


FRYING.  59 

and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  an  onion  stuck. with 
cloves,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  two  blades  of  mace. 
Cover  these  close,  and  let  them  stew  as  softly  as  you  can  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  put  it 
into  the  pan  again,  adding  two  spoonfuls  of  ketchup,  an 
ounce  of  truffles  or  morels,  boiled  tender  in  half  a  pint  of 
water,  a  few  mushrooms,  and  half  a  pint  of  oysters,  clean 
washed  in  their  own  liquor.  When  you  find  your  sauce 
is  properly  heated,  and  very  good,  put  your  tench  into 
the  pan,  and  make  them  quite  hot ;  then  take  them  out,  lay 
them  into  the  dish,  and  pour  your  sauce  over  them.  Carp 
may  be  dressed  in  the  same  manner,  as  may  tench  in  the  man- 
ner above  described  for  carp. 

Eels. 

MAKE  your  eels  very  clean,  cut  them  into  pieces,  and  hav- 
ing  seasoned  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  flour  them  and  fry 
them.  Let  your  sauce  be  plain  melted  butter  and  anchovy 
sauce ;  but  be  careful  to  drain  them  properly  before  you  lay 
them  in  the  dish. 

Lampreys. 

BLEED  them,  and  save  the  blood ;  wash  them  in  hot  water 
to  take  off  the  slime,  and  cut  them  in  pieces.  When  nearly 
fried  enough,  pour  out  the  fat,  put  in  a  little  white  wine,  and 
give  the  pan  a  shake  round.  Season  with  pepper,  sweet 
herbs,  a  few  capers,  a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  the  blood.  Shake  the  pan  often,  and  cover  close.  Take 
them  out  as  soon  as  enough,  strain  the  sauce,  and  give  it  a 
quick  boil.  Then  squeeze  in  a  lemon,  and  pour  it  over  the 
fish. 

Mullets. 

SCALE  and  gut  them  ;  melt  some  butter,  and  pour  it  into  a 
deep  dish.  Score  the  mullets  across  the  back,  and  dip  them 
into  the  butter.  Then  set  on  in  a  stewpan  some  butter,  and 
let  it  clarify.  Fry  the  mullets  in  it,  and  when  they  are 
enough,  lay  them  on  a  warm  dish.  For  sauce,  anchovy  and 
butter. 

Herrings. 

HAVING  scaled,  washed,  and  dried  your  herrings  properly, 
lay  them  separately  on  a  board,  and  place  them  at  the  fire  two  or 
three  minutes  before  they  are  wanted,  which  will  prevent  their 
sticking  to  the  pan.  Dredge  your  fish  with  flour  ;  and  when 
your  butter  boils  in  the  pan,  put  in  your  fish,  a  few  at  a  time, 
and  fry  them  over  a  brisk  fire.  As  soon  as  sufficiently  fried, 


60  STEWS  AND  HASHES. 

set  their  tails  up  one  against  another  in  the  middle  of  the  dish, 
and  fry  a  large  handful  of  parsley  crisp ;  take  it  out  before 
it  loses  its  colour,  lay  it  round  them,  and  serve  them  up  with 
parsley  sauce  in  a  boa.t.  Some  fry  onions,  lay  them  round 
the  dish,  and  make  onion  sauce  ;  and  others  cut  off  the  heads 
of  the  herrings  after  they  are  fried,  chop  them,  and  put  them 
into  a  saucepan,  with  ale,  pepper,  'salt,  and  an  anchovy; 
they  then  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  strain  it,  and  put 
it  into  a  sauce-boat. 


CE1APTER  VIII. 


STEWS  AND  HASHES 


*.j  Tiivmp  of  Beef. 

IN  order  to  stew  rump  of  beef  property,  you-  must  first  half 
roast  it,  and  then  put  it  into  a  large  saucepan,  with  two 
quarts  of  water,  one  pint  of  small  beer,  one  pint  of  red  wine, 
two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  an  eschalot,  two  spoonfuls  of 
walnut  ketchup,  one  of  lemon  pickle,  two  of  browning,  and 
a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Let  these  stew  over  a  gentle 
fu-^fror  two  hours,  closely  covered ;  then  take  out  your  beef, 
and  lay  it  on  a  deep  dish,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  strain  the 
gravy.  Put  into  it  an  ounce  of  morels,  half  a  pint  of  musli- 
roor^s,  and  thicken  your  gravy,  and  pour  it  over  your  beef. 
Lay  'forcemeat  balls  round  it.  Or  wash  the  beef  well,  season 
high  with  pepper,  cayenne,  allspice,  three  cloves,  and  a  blade 
of  mace,  all  in  fine  powder.  Bind  up  tight,  and  lay  in  a  pot 
that  will  just  hold  it.  Fry  three  large  onions  sliced,  put  them 
to  it,  with  three  carrots,  two  turnips,  an  eschalot,  four  cloves, 
a  blade  of  mace,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  some  celery. 
Cover  the  meat  with  beef  broth :  simmer  as  gently  as  pos- 
sible till  tender.  Clear  off  the  fat,  .and  add  to  the  gravy  half 
a  pint  of  port  wine,  a  glass  of  vinegar,  two  spoonfuls  of 
ketchup;  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish. 

Brisket  of  Beef  a  La  Francois, 

BONE  a  brisket  of  beef,  and  season  with  sweet  herbs,  escha- 
lots, beaten  spides,  pepper,  and  salt:  bind  it  round  with  a 
packthread,  and  add  beef  gravy  one  quart,  port  wine  one 
pint,  walnut  ketchup  four  spoonfuls;  braise  (stew  gently)  till 
tender;  wipe  the  top  dry,  glaize,  and  serve  it  up  with  the 


STEWS  AND  HASHES.  61 

gravy  round.     Either  onion,   savoy,  haricof,  or  ashee  sauces 
may  be  used.     For  making  glaize,  &c. — See  Sauces. 

Brisket  of  Beef  a  L'Anglois. 

STEW  in  two  gallons  of  water,  for  two  or  three  hours  over 
night,  about  ten  pounds  of  brisket  of  beef.  When  sufficiently 
tender,  take  out  the  bones.  Then  boil  in  some  of  the  liquor  a 
few  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  celery,  and  white  cabbage,  till  they 
become  quite  tender.  Add  these  and  some  salt  and  a  liftle 
pepper  to  the  beef,  and  remainder  of  the  broth,  and  stew  all 
together  till  sufficiently  done. 

Beef  Gobbets. 

CUT  any  piece  of  beef,  except  the  leg,  into  pieces  about 
the  size  or  a  pullet's  egg,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan.  Cover 
with  water,  stew,  skim  clean,  and  when  they  have  stewed  an 
hour,  take  mace,  cloves,  and  whole  pepper,  tigd  loosely  in 
a  muslin  rag,  and  some  celery  cut  small.  Put  them  into 
the  pan  with  some  salt,  turnips  and  carrots  pared,  and  cut  in 
slices,  a  little  parsley,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  large 
crust  of  bread.  You  may  put  in  an  ounce  of  barley  or  rice, 
if  you  like  it.  Cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew  till  tender. 
Take  out  the  herbs,  spices,  and  bread,  and  have  ready  a 
French  roll  cut  in  four.  Dish  up  all  together,  and  send  it  to 
table. 

Beef  stewed  savourily. 

CUT  out  the  inside  of  a  sirloin  of  beef,  and  take  from  it  all 
the  fat;  prepare  a  sufficient  quantity  of  rich  forcemeat  (see 
Sauces  J,  and  put  it  within  the  beef,  which  must  be  tightly 
rolled  and  bound  with  a  tape.  Fry  to  a  light  brown,  and  after 
suffering  the  fat  to  drain  from  it,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
quart  of  good  gravy,  a  little  ketchup,  anchovy  liquor,  and 
a  few  oysters,  if  in  season. 

Beef  Steaks. 

HAVING  procured  rump  steaks,  cut  thick  for  this  purpose, 
pepper  and  salt  them,  and  lay  them  in  a  stewpan,  with  some 
butter  and  a  little  water  ;  when  brown,  add  half  a  pint  of 
water,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  two  or  three  cloves,  an  an- 
chovy, a  small  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  an  onion.  Cover  close, 
and  let  them  stew  softly  till  tender;  then  take  out  the  steaks, 
and  pour  off  all  the  fat.  Then  strain  the  sauce  they  were 
stewed  in,  and  pour  it  into  the  pan,  add  a  glassful  of  port 
wine,  and  toss  it  all  up  together,  till  the  sauce  be  quite  hot 


C2  STEWS  AND  HASHES. 

and  thick ;  and  if  you  choose  to  enrich  it,  von  may  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  oysteis.  Lay  }'our  steaks  into  the  dish, 
and  pour  the  sauce  over  them.  Or  take  three  or  four  beef 
steaks  cut  thick,  and  season  with  white  pepper,  salt,  and 
eschalot  shred  tine.  Lay  them  in  a  stewpan,  with  some  slices  of 
bacon  under  and  over  them,  together  with  a  piece  of  butter. 
Stew  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  after  which 
put  to  them  a  pint  of  brown  gravy,  a  few  pickled  mushrooms, 
a  cucumber,  a  few  morels,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  port  wine. 
Stew  till  the  steaks  are  sufficiently  tender;  then  take  out 
the  bacon,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour 
rolled  in  butter. 

Beef  Steaks  stewed  with  Cucumber. 

PARE  four  large  cucumbers,  and  cut  them  into  slices  about 
an  inch  long,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  four  onions 
sliced,  and  a  piece  of  butter.  Fry  till  brown,  and  add  a  pint 
of  gravy ;  dust  in  a  little  flour.  When  the  cucumbers  are 
sufficiently  tender,  skim  off  the  fat.  Take  four  rump  steaks, 
having  previously  beaten  and  seasoned  them  with  white  pep- 
per and  salt.  Fry  these  quickly  in  butter;  and,  when  done, 
put  them  into  a  dish,  pouring  the  cucumbers,  onions,  and 
gravy  over  them. 

Ox  Tongue. 

STEW  it  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  simmer 
two  hours.  Peel  and  put  it  into 'the  liquor  again,  with  some 
pepper,  salt,  mace,  two  cloves,  and  whole  pepper,  tied  in 
u  bit  of  fine  cloth  ;  a  few  capers,  chopped  turnips,  and  car- 
rots sliced ;  half  a  pint  of  beef  gravy,  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  white  wine,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Let  it  stew 
very  gently  until  tender;  then  takeout  the  spice  and  sweet 
herbs,  and  thicken  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

Hashed  Beef  or  Mutton — Savoury. 

TAKE  some  onions  and  cut  into  slices,  put  a  piece  of  butter 
into  a  saucepan,  and  then  put  in  the  onions,  with  two  spoon- 
fuls of  good  gravy ;  let  them  stew  for  ten  minutes,  taking 
care  to  keep  them  of  a  good  yellow  colour.  Take  off  all  the 
fat ;  cut  the  beef  or  mutton  into  thin  slices,  and  put  it  into 
the  sauce  with  a  spoonful  of  walnut  ketchup,  four  spoonfuls 
of  port  wine,  salt,  white  pepper,  and  add  a  little  gravy  a 
short  time  before  serving  up. 

Hashed  Beef  or  Mutton — Plain. 

TAKE  the  bones  of  the  meat,  break  small,  and  stew  in  a 
little  water  with  onions  and  sweet  herbs;  strain.  Take  a 


STEWS  AND  HASHES.  63 

lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  fry  it  till  of  a  nice  brown  ;  add 
the  gravy  and  the  meat,  previously  seasoned  with  pepper, 
onion,  and  shred  parsley,  to  the  fried  butter  in  the  frying  pan, 
and  when  warm  serve  up. 

Lamb's  Head. 

IN  order  to  stew  a  lamb's  head,  wash  and  pick  it  very  clean. 
Lay  it  in  water  for  an  hour,  take  out  the  brains,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  carefully  extract  the  bones  and  the  tongue ;  but 
be  careful  to  avoid  breaking  the  meat.  Then  take  out  the 
eyes.  Take  two  pounds  of  veal  and  two  pounds  of  beef 
suet,  a  very  little  thyme,  a  good  piece  of  lemon  peel  minced, 
part  of  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  two  anchovies.  Having  chop- 
ped all  these  well  together,  grate  two  stale  rolls,  and  mix  all 
with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Save  enough  of  this  meat  to 
make  about  twenty  balls.  Take  half  a  pint  of  fresh  mush- 
rooms, clean  peeled  and  washed,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  chop- 
ped, half  a  pint  of  oysters  clean  washed,  or  pickled  cockles. 
Mix  all  together;  but  first  stew  your  oysters,  and  put  to  them 
two  quarts  of  gravy,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace.  Tie  the 
head  with  packthread,  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew  two  hours. 
While  this  is  doing,  beat  up  the  brains  with  some  lemon-peel 
cut  fine,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and 
the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Fry  the  brains  in  little  cakes,  in  boiling 
dripping,  and  fry  the  balls,  and  keep  them  both  hot.  Take 
half  an  ounce  of  truffles  and  morels,  and  strain  the  gravy  the 
head  was  stewed  in.  Put  td  it  the  truffles  and  morels,  and  a 
few  mushrooms,  and  boil  all  together ;  then  put  in  the  rest 
of  the  brains  that  are  not  fried,  and  stew  them  together  for  a 
minute  or  two.  Pour  this  over  the  head,  lay  the  fried  brains 
and  balls  round  it,  and  garnish  with  lemon. 

Lamb's  Head  and  Appurtenances. — See  Made  Dishes. 

Knuckle  of  Veal. 

BEFORE  you  begin  your  stew,  take  care  that  the  pot  or 
saucepan  is  very  clean,  and  lay  at  the  bottom  of  it  four  clean 
wooden  skewers.  Wash  and  clean  the  knuckle  carefully,  and 
lay  it  in  the  pot,  with  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a  little 
whole  pepper,  a  little  piece  of  thyme,  a  small  onion,  a  crust 
of  bread,  and  two  quarts  of  water.  Having  covered  it  down 
close,  make  it  boil,  and  let  it  only  simmer  for  two  hours. 
When  enough,  take  it  up,  lay  it  in  a  dish,  and  strain  the 
broth  on  it. 

Calf's  Head. 

TAKE  a  head  without  the  scalp,  chopped  in  half;  wash  and 
blanch  it,  peel  the  tongue  cut  in  slices,  and  likewise  the  meat 


64  STEWS  AND  HASHES. 

frofri  the  head :  add  blanched  morels  and  truffles,  egg  and 
forcemeat  balls,  stewed  mushrooms,  artichoke-bottoms,  and 
well  seasoned  gravy.  Let  the  meat  stew  gently  till  nearly 
done,  and  then  add  slices  of  throat  sweetbreads.  When 
serving  up,  put  round  the  hash  the  brains  and  fried  rashers  of 
bacon.  If  desired,  half  the  head  .may  be  put  on  the  top,  and 
prepared  thus:  when  the  head  is  bl.incheO,  one  half  is  to  be 
rubbed  over  with  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg ;  then  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  strew  with  fine  grated  bread,  bake  till  very 
tender;  and  brown  with  a  salamander.  The  brains  to  be 
mixed  with  yolk  of  egg,  and  rolled  in  grated  bread,  and  fried 
in  boiling  lard.  Or  take  a  calf's  head  with  the  skin  on  ;  scald 
off  the  hair,  and  when  well  washed,  split  the  head  and  take 
out  the  brains :  boil  the  head  till  tender,  then  from  one  half 
of  it  take  off  the  flesh,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces  ;  dredge 
with  a  little  flour,  and  let  it  stew  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a 
rich  white  gravy  made  of  veal  and  mutton,  a  piece  of  bacon, 
and  seasoned  with  white  pepper  and  salt,  onion,  and  a  very 
little  mace.  Take  off  the  meat  from  the  other  half  of  the  hvjad 
in  one  whole  piece,  and  roll  it  like  a  collar,  having  previously 
stuffed  it  with  a  rich  forcemeat  (see  Sauces),  and  bind  with  a 
tape.  Stew  till  tender  in  good  gravy:  when  done  enough, 
put  it  in  a  dish,  with  the  hash  made  of  the  other  part  of  the 
head  round  it,  and  garnish  with  forcemeat  balls,  fried  oysters, 
and  the  brains  made  into  cakes  with  grated  bread  and  yolk  of 
egg,  and  fried  in  butter;  add  wine,  truffles,  morels,  mush- 
rooms, or  any  other  kind  of  seasoning  to  the  taste. 

Hashed  Veal. 

CUT  your  veal  into  thin  round  slices,  of  the  size  of  a  half- 
crown,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  a'  little  gravy. 
Put  to  it  some  lemon-peel  cut  exceedingly  fine,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon-pickle.  Put  it  on  the  fire,  and  thicken  it 
with  butter  and  flour.  Put  in  your  veal  as  soon  as  it  boils, 
and  just  before  you  dish  it  np  put  in  a  spoonful  of  cream,  and 
lay  sippets  round  the  dish. 

Minced  Veal. 

HAVING  cut  your  veal  into  slices,  and  then  into  square 
pieces  (but  do  not  chop  it),  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  with  two 
or  three  spoonfuls  of  gravy,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  slice  of 
lemon,  a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  tea  spoonful 
of  lemon-pickle,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  cream.  Keep  shak- 
ing over  the  fire  till  it  boil ;  but  it  must  not  boil  above  a  mi- 
nute, as  otherwise  it  will  make  the  veal  hard.  Serve  it  up 
with  sippets  round  the  dish. 


STEWS  AND  HASHES.  65 

Minced  Beef. 

SHRED  the  beef  least  roasted  very  fine,  with  some  of  the 
fat;  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  small  quantity  of  onion  or 
eschalot,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  vinegar,  or  instead  of 
onion  two  large  spoonfuls  of  eschalot  rinegar,  a  little  water  or 
broth,  some  of  the  gravy  of  the  meat,  and  pepper  and  salt : 
let  the  whole  simmer  gently,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  as  that 
will  harden  the  meat.  Serve  in  a  dish, with  sippets. 

Hashed  Beef  and  broiled  Bones. 

CUT  the  fillet  from  the  inside  of  a  sirloin  that  has  been 
roasted  the  preceding  day  ;  or  for  want  of  it,  the  other  part, 
into  small  collops ;  cut  the  bones  into  neat  pieces,  leave 
plenty  of  meat  on,  score,  pepper,  and  salt  the  bones ;  put 
them  into  a  tart-pan,  and  pour  a  little  oiled  butter  over  them; 
a  short  time  before  they  are  wanted,  put  them  in  the  oven  to 
warm  through,  and  then  on  the  gridiron  to  brown :  put  the 
trimmings  of  the  meat  and  the  rough  bones  into  a  stewpan, 
and  two  large  onions  sliced,  a  little  vinegar,  and  a  pint  of 
stock  (see  Saucesj  :  set  it  on  a  stove  to  stew  slowly  for  an 
hour;  then  strain  and  skim  off  the  fat ;  put  an  ounce  of  butter 
into  the  stewpan,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  to  melt,  then  add  a 
table  spoonful  of  flour  ;  stir  over  the  fire  for  a  minute  or  two ; 
then  put  in  the  liquor  the  beef  bones,  &c.  were  stewed  in ; 
stir  till  it  boil,  then  add  a  little  ketchup,  strain  through  a 
tamis,  and  put  the  collops  to  it ;  set  it  by  the  side  of  a  stove 
to  keep  hot,  for  it  should  not  boil,  as  that  would  harden  the 
meat ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  serve  up  with  the  broiled 
bones  round  the  side. 

Hashed  Lamb  and  broiled  Blade-bone. 

CUT  the  blade-bone  from  the  shoulder  oJF  lamb,  leaving  a 
little  meat  upon  it ;  score,  pepper,  and  salt  it ;  put  it  on  a 
tart-dish  ;  pour  over  it  a  little  oiled  butter,  and  put  it  into  the 
oven  to  warm  througk  :  cut  the  other  part  of  the  meat  into 
neat  collops ;  put  a  little  coulis  (see  Saucesj  into  a  stewpan ; 
make  it  hot,  and  add  a  little  mushroom  ketchup,  and  half  a 
spoonful  of  eschalot  vinegar  :  put  in  the  collops,  set  them  by 
the  side  of  a  stove  to  get  not,  but  do  not  let  them  boil;  take 
the  blade-bone  out  of  the  oven ;  put  it  on  a  gridiron  to  brown, 
and  put  the  hash  on  the  dish,  and  the  blade-bone  on  the  middle 
of  the  dish. 

Lamb's  Head  minced. 

CHOP  the  head  in  halves,  and  blanch  it  with  the  liver,  heart., 
and  lights  :  clean  the  brains  in  warm  water,  dip  them  in  yolk 

F 


66.  STEWS  AND  HASHES. 

of  egg,  grated  bread,  and  chopped  parsley,  seasoned  with 
white  pepper  and  salt ;  and  whilst  the  head  is  blanching,  fry 
them  in  boiling  lard,  and  drain.  Chop  the  heart,  &c.  and 
add  a  little  parsley  and  lemon-peel,  chopped  very  fine,  sea- 
soned with  white  pepper  and  salt ;  stew  in  some  cullis  till  ten- 
der. Wash  the  head  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  strew  over  grated 
bread,  seasoned  with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  gently 
till  very  tender.  Serve  up,  having  browned  the  head  with 
a  salamander,  put  the  mince  under  it,  and  the  brains  round 
it,  with  rashers  of  broiled  bacon. 

Ox  Palates  for  Made  Dishes. 

STEW  them  till  tender,  which  must  be  done  by  putting  them 
into  cold  water,  and  letting  them  stew  softly  over  a  gentle 
fire,  till  they  are  as  tender  as  you  wish.  Then  take  off  the 
two  skins,  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  put  them  into  either  your 
made  dish  or  soup,  with  cocks-combs  and  artichoke  bottoms 
cut  small. 

Neats  Tongues  whole. 

PUT  two  tongues  in  water  just  sufficient  to  cover  them,  and 
let  them  stew  two  hours.  Then  peel  them,  and  put  them  in 
again  with  a  pint  of  strong  gravy,  half  a  pint  of  white  wine, 
a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  some  mace, 
cloves,  and  whole  pepper,  tied  in  a  muslin  rag  ;  -a  spoonful 
of  capers  chopped,  turnips  and  carrots  sliced,  and  a  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour.  Let  all  stew  together  very  softly  over  a 
slow  fire  for  two  hours,  and  then  take  out  the  spice  and  sweet 
herbs,  and  send  the  dish  to  table. 

Venison  hashed. 

TAKE  the  part  least  done  of  ready  dressed  venison,  cut  it 
in  slices,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan ;  then  pass  a  bit  of 
fresh  butter  and  flour,  and  chopped  eschalots,  over  a  slow  fire 
for  ten  minutes,  and  add  to  them  half  a  pint  of  port  wine, 
two  spoonsful  of  browning,  a  pint  and -an  half  of  veal  stock, 
its  own  gravy,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  cayenne  pepper, 
salt,  and  lemon-juice.  Season  to  the  taste  ;  boil  all  together 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,--  and  strain  through  a  tamis  on  the 
venison  :  let  it  simmer  till  perfectly  hot.  Or  cut  the  venison 
into  neat  thin  slices,  as  near  the  shape  of  a  cutlet  as  the  meat 
will  admit;  lay  the  venison  in  a  stewpan  round  the  sides,  like 
cutlets  on  a  dish ;  put  the  gravy  belonging  to  the  venison  in 
the  stewpan,  together  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  stock  (see 
Sauces)  ;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  adding  a  little  cayenne : 
cut  a  sheet  of  paper  to  the  size  of  the  stewpan,  and  put  it 


STEWS  AND  HASHES.  C7 

over  the  meat  to  keep  the  steam  in  while  it  is  warming  by  the 
side  of  the  stove ;  put  the  trimmings  and  lean  pieces  into 
another  stewpan,  with  two  large  onions  sliced,  three  clores, 
a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a  pint  of  stock,  a  table  spoonful  of 
browning,  and  a  glass  of  port  wine:  let  the  stewpan  simmer 
for  two  hours  ;  then  strain  through  a  tamis,  and  skirn.off  the 
fat ;  put  an  ounce  of  butter  into  the  stewpan,  and  set  it  on 
the  fire  to  melt;  when  melted,  put  as  much  flour  as  will  dry 
up  the  butter ;  stir  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain 
through  a  tamis  into  the  stewpan  containing  the  venison,  and 
Jet  it  simmer  till  hot. 

Mutton  Venison. 

SKIN  and  bone  a  loin  of  fine  old  wether  mutton  ;  after  re- 
moving the  suet,  put  it  into  a  cold  stewpan  for  one  night, 
with  the  bones  round  it,  and  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  port  wine 
and  a  quart  of  water :  the  following  day,  put  it  over  the  fire, 
together  with  the  bones,  laying  the  fat  side  downwards,  and 
adding  one  eschalot,  one  blade  of  mace,  a  little  parsley, 
marjoram,  six  pepper-corns,  and  a  little  lemon-peel:  after 
stewing  an  hour,  turn  the  fat  side  uppermost,  and  when 
enough,  take  up  the  meat,  hold  a  salamander  over  it,  skim 
off  the  fat,  and  strain  the  gravy. 

Turkies  or  Fowls. 

WHEN  you  stew  a  turkey  or  a  fowl,  put  four  clean  skewers 
at  the  bottom,  and  lay  your  turkey  or  fowl  thereon.  Put  in  a 
quart  of  gravy,  a  bunch  of  celery  cut  small  and  washed  very 
clean,  and  two  or  three  blades  of  mace.  Let  it  stew  gently 
till  there  remain  only  ftnough  for  iauce,  and  then  add  a  large 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  two  spoonsful  of  red  wine,  the 
same  quantity  of  ketchup,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  pepper 
and  salt  to  season  it.  Lay  your  turkey  or  fowl  in  the  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over  it,  and  send  it  to  table. 

Turkey  stewed  brown. 

BONE  your  turkey,  and  fill  it  with  forcemeat,  made  in  the 
following  manner :  Take  the  flesh  of  a  fowl,  half  a  pound  of 
veal,  the  flesh  of  two  pigeons,  and  a  pickled  or  dried  tongue 
peeled.  Chop  these  all  together,  and  beat  them  in  a  mortar, 
with  the  marrow  of  a  beef  bone,  or  a  pound  of  the  fat  from  a 
loin  of  veal.  Season  it  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  two  or 
three  blades  of  mace,  as  many  cloves,  and  half  a  nutmeg 
dried  at  a  great  distance  from  the  fire,  and  pounded.  Mix  all 
these  well  together,  and  fill  your  turkey  with  it.  Then  put 
it  into  a  little  pot,  that  will  just  hold  it,  having  first  laid  four 


68  STEWS  AND  HASHES. 

or  five  skewers  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  to  prevent  the  turkey 
sticking  to  it.  Put  in  a  quart  of  good  beef  and  veal  gravy,  in 
which  sweet  herbs  and  spice  have  been  boiled,  and  cover  it 
close.  When  it  has  stewed  half  an  hour,  put  in  a  glass  of 
white  wine,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  a  large  spoonful  of  pickled 
mushrooms,  and  a  few  fresh  ones,  if  in  season  ;  a  few  truffles 
and  morels,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover 
close,  and  let  it  stew  half  an  hour  longer.  Get  little  French 
rolls  ready  fried,  and  get  some  oysters  and  strain  the  liquor 
from  them.  Then  put  the  oysters  and  liquor  into  a  saucepan, 
with  a  blade  of  mace,  a  little  white  wine,  and  a  piece  of  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour.  Let  them  stew  thick,  and  then  fill  the 
loaves.  Lay  the  turkey  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
it.  If  there  is  any  fat  on  the  gravy,  take  it  off,  and  lay  the 
loaves  on  each  side  of  the  turkey,  but  if  you  have  no  loaves, 
garnish  with  lemon,  and  make  use  of  oysters  dipped  in  bat- 
ter and  fried. 

Stewed  Chickens. 

TAKE  two  fine  chickens,  and  half  boil  them.  Then  take 
them  up  in  a  pewter  dish,  and  cut  them  up,  separating  every 
joint  one  from  the  other,  and  taking  out  the  breast  bones. 
If  the  fowls  do  not  produce  liquor  sufficient,  add  a  few  spoons- 
ful of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and  put  in  a  blade 
of  mace,  and  a  liitle  salt.  Cover  it  close  with  another  dish, 
and  set  it  over  a  stove  or  chafing  dish  of  coall?.  Let  it  stew 
till  the  chickens  are  enough,  and  then  send  them  hot  to  the 
table. 

Fowl  stewed  in  Pice. 

TAKE  a  fowl  and  half  boil  it  in  a  moderate  quantity  of  wa- 
ter :  boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  which,  together  with 
the  fowl  and  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  must  be  put  into  a  stew- 
pan:  add  a  blade  of  mace,  and  season  with  white  pepper  and 
salt. 

Geese  Giblets. 

CUT  the  neck  in  four  pieces,  and  the  pinions  in  two,  and 
clean  well,  and  slice  the  gizzard.  Let  them  stew  in  two 
quarts  of  water  or  mutton  broth,  with  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs, 
a  few  pepper  corns,  three  or  four  cloves,  an  anchovy,  an 
onion,  and  a  spoonful  of  ketchup.  When  the  giblets  feel 
tender,  put  in  a  spoonful  of  cream,  thicken  it  with  flour  and 
butter,  lay  sippets  round  it,  and  serve  up  in  a  soup  dish. 

Giblets  stewed  plain. 

CUT  two  pay:  of  giblets  into  pieces  of  two  inches  long; 
then  blanch  them,  trim  the  bones  from  the  ends,  and  wash 


STEWS  AND  HASHES.  69 

the  giblets:  drain  them  dry,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
half  a  pint  of  stock  (see  Sauces),  cover  close,  and  simmer  over 
the  fire  till  nearly  done  ;  then  add  good  seasoned  cullis  (see 
Sauces),  and  stew  till  tender. 

Giblets  stewed  with  Pease. 

PIIOCEED  as  above,  but  instead  of  cullis,  take  a  pint  of 
shelled  young  green  pease,  and  mash  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  little  fresh  butter  and  salt,  till  three  parts  done :  then  add 
some  cullis,  and  the  giblets,  and  stew  them  till  tender, 

Pheasants, 

STEW  your  pheasant  in  veal  gravy,  and  let  it  stew  till  there 
is  just  enough  liquor  left  for  sauce.  Then  skim  it,  and  put 
in  artichoke  bottoms  parboiled,  a  little  beaten  mace,  and  white 
pepper  and  salt  enough  to  season  it,  with  a  glass  of  white 
wine.  Thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  if  not 
already  thick  enough.  Squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  ;  then  pour 
the  sauce  over  the  pheasant,  and  put  some  forcemeat  balls 
into  the  dish.  A  good  fowl,  trussed  with  the  head  on,  like  a 
pheasant,  will  eat  equally  as  well. 

Woodcocks  and  Partridges. 

YOUR  woodcock  must  be  cut  up  as  for  eating,  and  the 
entrails  worked  very  fine  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Mix  with 
them  a  spobnful  of  red  wine,  the  same  quantity  of  water,  and 
half  a  spoonful  of  eschalot  vinegar ;  roll  a  piece  of  butter  in 
flour,  and  put  all  into  your  tossing-pan.  Shake  it  over  the 
fire  till  it  boil,  then  put  in  your  bird,  and  when  thoroughly 
hot,  lay  it  in  your  dish  with  sippets  round,  and  strain  the  sauce 
over  it.  A  partridge  is  dressed  in  the  same  manner. 

Duck  stewed. 

You  may  lard  it  or  not,  as  you  like.  Half  roast  it,  and 
then  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  pint  or  more  of  good  gravy, 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  red  wine,  onion  chopped  small,  a  spoon- 
ful of  eschalot  vinegar,  a  piece  of  lemon-peel, cayenne  and  salt 
Stew  it  gently,  close  cover  it  till  tender.  Take  out  the  duck 
from  the  sauce,  boil  it  up  quick,  strain  and  pour  over  the 
duck  ;  add  truffles  and  morels,  if  agreeable. 

Duck  stewed  with  Green  Pease. 

HALF  roast  a  duck ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of 
good  gravy,  a  little  mint,  and  three  or  four  leaves  of  sage 
cut  small.  Cover  up  close,  and  let  the  duck  continue  in  the 
pan  fop  half  an  hour.  Put  a  pint  of  green  pease  boiled  a*. 


70  STEWS  AND  HASHES. 

for  eating,  into  the  pan,  after  having  thickened  the  gravy 
Serve  up,  pouring  the  gravy  and  pease  upon  the  duck. 

Hashed  Turkeys,  Fowls,  and  Rabbits. 

CUT  either  of  the  above  very  neatly  into  pieces,  and  put 
it  into  a  stewpan  :  into  another  stewpan  put  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  some  chopped  onions  or  eschalots;  cover 
close  and  stew  for  ten  minutes  :  add  veal  stock  (see  Sauces J, 
half  a  pint ;  lemon  pickle,  one  spoonful ;  walnut  ketchup, 
two  spoonsful ;  browning,  one  spoonful ;  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
and  strain  into  the  stewpan  containing  the  hash:  let  this  sim- 
mer till  enough  ;  and  serve  with  grilled  fowl  round  it. 

Wild  Ducks  hashed. 

HAVING  cut  up  your  duck  as  for  eating,  put  it  in  a  tossing- 
pan,  with  a  spoonful  of  good  gravy,  the  same  of  red  wine, 
an  eschalot  sliced  exceedingly  thin,  and  a  tea  spoonful  of 
garlic  vinegar.  When  it  has  boiled  two  or  three  minutes, 
lay  the  duck  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it.  You 
may  add  a  little  browning ;  but  remember  that  the  gravy  must 
not  be  thickened. 

Hares  hashed. 
HARES  are  hashed  in  the  same  manner  as  venison. 

Jugged  Hare. 

CUT  your  hare  into  little  pieces,  and  lard  them  here  and 
there  with  little  slips  of  bacon.  Season  them  with  a  little 
pepper  a**d  salt,  and  put  them  into  an  earthen  jug,  with  a 
blade  ni-  two  of  mace,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  and  a 
bundle*of  sweet  herbs.  Cover  the  jug  close,  that  nothing  may 
get  in  j  set  it  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  three  hours  will 
do  it.  Then  turn  it  out  into  the  dish,  take  out  the  onion  and 
sweet  herbs,  and  send  it  hot  to  table.  As  to  the  larding,  .you 
may  omit  it,  if  you  please.  Or,  case  the  hare,  cut  off  the 
shoulders  and  legs,  and  the  back  in  three  pieces.  Lard 
them  well  with  fat  bacon,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpot  with 
the  trimmings.  Add  to  them  allspice,  mace,  whole  pepper,  a 
little  of  each;  a  small  clove  of  garlic  or  a  spoonful  of  garlic 
vinegar,  three  onions,  two  bay  leaves,  and  a  small  bundle  of 
parsley,  thyme  and  savory,  tied  together;  a  quart  of  veal 
stock,  and  three  gills  of  port  wine :  let  it  simmer  till  nearly 
done  ;  strain  the  gravy,  skim  off  the  fat,  adding  two  spoons- 
ful of  browning,  cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon  juice,  and  thicken 
with  butter  rolled  in  flour  :  put  in  the  hare, 'and  simmer  it  till 
sufficiently  done. 


STEWS  AND  HASHES.  71 

4 

Stewed  Peas  and  Lettuce. 

PUT  a  quart  of  green  peas,  two  large  cabbage-lettuces,  cut 
small  across,  and  \vashed  very  clean,  into  a  stewpan,  with  a 
quart  of  gravy,  and  stew  them  till  tender.  Put  in  some  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour,  a  spoonful  of  essence  of  ham,  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  As  soon  as  they  are  of  a  proper  thick- 
ness, dish  them  up. 

Pease  stewed  for  Sauce. 

To  a  quart  of  shelled  young  green  pease  add  two  ounces 
of  fresh  butter,  a  very  little  sifted  sugar,  and  some  salt:  put 
them  into  a  stewpan,  cover  close,  simmer  till  nearly  done, 
then  add  some  good  seasoned  cullis  (see  Sauces) ,  and  stew 
them  till  tender.  They  may  be  served  with  lamb,  veal,  or 
chickens. 

Cucumbers. 

TAKE  fresh  gathered  cucumbers,  pare  them,  and  cut  them 
into  slices :  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  and  add  a  little  salt, 
vinegar,  and  an  onion,  simmer  over  a  fire  till  nearly  done  and 
the  liquor  consumed :  or  fry  them  with  a  bit  of  fresh  butter, 
and  add  a  strong  cullis  (see  Sauces),  letting  the  cucumbers 
stew  till  sufficiently  done. 

Mushrooms  (brown). 

WITH  a  knife,  clean  a  pottle  of  fresh  mushrooms,  put  them 
into  water,  and  when  stewed,  take  them  out  with  a  small  tin 
slice :  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  fresh-butter, 
a  little  salt,  some  white  pepper,  a  tea  spoonful  of  essence  of 
anchovy,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  cover  the  stewpan 
close,  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes : 
thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  water ;  add  a  spoonful  of  brown- 
ing, two  spoonsful  of  port  wine,  and  stew  gently  for  five 
minutes. 

Mushrooms  (white). 

PROCEED  as  above,  only  instead  of  browning,  and  port  wine, 
add  a  gill  of  good  cream. 

Sorrel. 

TAKE  some  sorrel,  and  after  being  well  washed  and  chop- 
ped, put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  slice  of  ham,  and  a  bit  of  but- 
ter :  when  stewed,  squeeze  gently,  adding  some  stock  (see 
Sauces) ,  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  a  tea  spoonful  of 
vinegar,  two  tea  spoonsful  of  lemon-pickle,  a  bit  of  butter, 


71  STEWS  AND  HASHES. 

and  a  lump  of  sugar:  stew  gently,  and  aftei'  taking  out  the 
harn,  and  chopping  the  sorrel  smooth  with  a  wooden-spoon, 
add  a  little  more  stock,  and  season  with  Afhite  pepper  and 
salt. 

Spinage. 

MAY  be  stewed  in  the  same  way,  and  when  there  is  a 
scarcity  of  sorrel,  may  be  made  to  nearly  resemble  it  in  fla- 
vour, by  squeezing  in  a  sufficiency  of  lemon-juice  to  render 
it  acidulous:  or,  it  may  be  stewed  with  a  few  spoonsful  of 
water,  drained,  and  squeezed:  returned  into  the  stewpan  after 
being  well  beaten,  adding  veal  stock,  cream,  white  pepper  and 
salt :  serve  with  poached  eggs. 

Artichoke  bottoms. 

BOIL  six  artichokes  till  half  done ;  then  take  the  leaves  and 
choke  away,  trim  the  bottoms  neatly  ;  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  veal  stock  (see  Sauces),  a  little  salt 
and  lemon  juice,  and  stew  gently  till  done  :  serve  up  with 
benshamelle  over  them. — See  Sauces.  ^ 

Endive. 

TAKE  white  endive,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  of  cold 
water;  when  it  boils  take  it  off,  and  throw  into  cold  water  for 
an  hour :  take  it  out  of  the  water,  and  squeeze  very  dry  ;  lay 
it  in  a  stewpan,  covering  it  with  weak  stock  (see  Sauces )t 
and  let  it  boil  till  the  stock  is  reduced :  if  intended  to  be 
brown,  add  coulis ;  if  white,  add  benshamelle. — See  Sauces. 

Chardoons. 

CUT  them  about  six  inches  long,  string  them,  and  stew 
them  till  tender.  Then  take  them  out,  flour  them,  and  fry 
them  in  butter  till  they  are  brown.  Serve,  with  melted  but- 
ter. Or  you  may  tie  them  up  in  bundles,  and  boil  them  like 
asparagus.  Put  a  toast  under  them,  and  pour  a  little  melted 
butter  over  them. 

Muscles. 

HAVING  washed  your  muscles  very  clean  from  the  sand  in 
two  or  three  waters,  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  and  cover  them 
close.  Let  them  stew  till  the  shells  are  opened,  and  then  take 
them  out  one  by  one,  and  pick  them  out  of  the  shells.  Be 
sure  to  look  under  the  tongue  to  see  if  there  be  a  crab,  and  if 
you  find  one,  throw  away  that  muscle.  Having  picked  them 
all  clean,  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  and  to  a  quart  of  muscles 
put  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  strained  through  a  sieve;  add  a 


STEWS  AND  HASHES.  73 

few  blades  of  mace,  a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  let  them  stew.  Lay  some  toasted  bread  round  the  dish, 
and  pour  in  the  muscles. 

Carp  and  Tench. 

CARP  and  tench  may  be  stewed  in  the  following  manner  : 
gut  and  scale  your  carp  and  tench,  and  having  dredged  them 
with  flour,  fry  them  in  dripping,  or  good  suet,  till  they  are 
brown.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  quart  of  water,  the 
like  quantity  of  port  wine,  a  large  spoonful  of  lemon-pickle, 
the  same  of  browning,  and  the  like  of  walnut  .ketchup  :  add 
a  little  mushroom  powder,  a  proper  quantity  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, a  large  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  spoonful  of  garlic 
vinegar,  and  a  stick  of  horse-radish.  Cover  your  pan  close, 
that  none  of  the  steam  may  escape,  and  let  them  stew  gently 
over  a  stove  fire,  till  the  gravy  is  reduced  to  barely  the  quan- 
tity sufficient  to  cover  them  in  the  dish.  Then  take  them  out, 
and  put  them  on  the  dish  you  intend  to  serve  them  up  in. 
Put  the  gravy  on  the  fire,  and  having  thickened  it  with  a 
large  piece  of  butter,  and  some  flour,  boil  it  a  little,  and  strain 
it  over  your  fish.  Or,  having  scaled  the  carp,  and  cleaned 
the  tench,  dredge  them  with  flour,  and  fry  in  dripping. 
When  fried,  put  the  fish  into  a  stewpan  with  some  good 
gravy,  a  few  anchovies,  a  bunch  of  thyme  and  sweet  herbs, 
a  little  mace,  four  spoonsful  of  ketchup,  two  spoonsful  of 
browning,  and  a  small  slice  of  onion  :  stew  till  nearly  enough ; 
take  up  the  fish  into  another  stesypan,  strain  the  gravy,  skim 
off  the  fat,  and  having  added  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  pour  on 
the  fish ;  stew  till  enough,  thickening  with  flour  and  butter. 

Carp  stewed  white. 

HAVING  scaled,  gutted,  and  washed  your  carp,  put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  with  two  quarts  of  water,  half  a  pint  of  white 
wine,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  whole  mace,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  two  onions,  and  a  stick  of  horse-radish.  Cover  the 
pan  close,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  and  a  half  over  a  stove. 
Put  a  gill  of  white  wine  into  a  saucepan,  with  an  onion,  two 
anchovies  chopped  fine,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  a  little  lemon  peel,  and  half  a  pint  of  veal  gravy. 
Having  boiled  them  a  few  minutes,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
mixed  with  a  little  cream,  and  when  it  boils,  squeeze  in  the 
•  uice  of  half  a  lemon.  Pour  this  hot  upon  the  fish,  and  serve 
^thern  up. 

Barbd. 

TAKE  a  large  barbel,  scale,  gut,  and  wash  it  in  vinegar  and 
salt,  and  afterwards  in  water.  Put  it  into  a  stewpan,  with  eel 


74  STKWS  AND  HASHES, 

broth  enough  to  cover  it.  Let  it  stew  gently,  then  add  some 
cloves,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  white  pepper  and  salt.  Let 
them  stew  gently,  till  the  fish  is  done ;  then  take  it  out, 
thicken  the  sauce  with  butter  and  flour,  and  pour  it  over  the 
fish. 

Lobsters. 

BOIL  the  lobsters,  and  pick  the  meat  clean  from  the  shells. 
Take  a  pint  of  water,  a  little  mace,  a  little  whole  pepper,  and 
the  shells  of  the  lobsters.  Let  them  boil  till  all  their  goodness 
is  out ;  then  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan. 
Put  in  the  lobsters  with  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  half 
a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  a  spoonful  or  two  of  white  wine,  a 
spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  and  a  little  juice  of  lemon. 
"Let  them  boil,  and  then  lay  them  in  the  dish. 

Lampreys  and  Eels. 

HAVING  skinned  and  gutted  your  lampreys,  season  them 
well  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  lemon  peel  shred  fine,  mace, 
cloves,  and  nutmeg.  Cut  some  thin  slices  of  butter  into  the 
bottom  of  your  saucepan,  and  put  your  fish  into  the  pan,  with 
half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  a  gill  of  white  wine  or  cyder,  the 
same  of  claret,  a  spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  a  bundle  of 
marjorum,  winter  savory,  and  thyme,  and  an  onion  sliced. 
Stew  them  over  a  slow  fire,  and  keep  the  lampreys  turning 
till  quite  tender ;  then  take  them  out,  and  thicken  the  sauce 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  or  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 
having  poured  it  over  the  fish,  send  them  up  to  table. 

Eels  may  be  stewed  in  the  same  manner. 

Flounders,  Plaice,  and  Soles. 

THESE  three  different  species  of  fish  may  be  stewed  in  one 
and  the  same  manner.  Half  fry  them  in  butter  till  of  a  fine 
brown ;  then  take  them  up,  put  to  your  butter  a  quart  of 
water,  two  anchovies,  and  an  onion  sliced,  and  boil  them 
slowly  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Put  your  fish  in  again,  with  two 
anchovies,  and  stew  gently  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  the  fish, 
put  in  a  spoonful  of  lemon  pickfe,  and  thicken  the  sauce  with 
butter  and  flour;  having  given  it  a  boil,  strain  it  through  a 
tamis  over  the  fish,  and  serve  up  with  oyster,  cockle,  or  shrimp 
sauce. 

Stewed  Cod. 

CUT  some  slices  of  cod,  and  season  with  nutmeg,  pepper, 
and  salt:  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  gill  of  water,  and 
two  gills  of  gravy  :  cover  close,  and  after  stewing  a  short  time, 
add  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  some  lemon  juice,  a  few 
oysters  with  their  liquor,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 


STEWS  AND  HASHES.  75 

two  or  three  blades  of  mace:  the  fish  will  take  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  stew,  when  they  are  to  be  served  up,  with  the  sauce 
over  them. 

Stewed  Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders,  in  the  Scotch  manner. 

BOIL  the  fish  till  nearly  enough,  take  it  out ;  put  it  in  a 
stewpan  with  two  bottles  of  strong  ale;  two  ounces  of  butter; 
one  spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy ;  one  spoonful  of  lernon 
pickle;  a  pint  of  beef  gravy;  two  onions;  a  few  oysters ; 
white  pepper  and  salt :  let  it  stew  till  the  fish  is  done  ;  and 
strain  the  sauce  over  it. 

Holibut  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner,  adding  force- 
meat balls,  made  of  a  part  of  the  fish  chopped,  shred  thyme, 
parsley,  and  marjorum,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  rolled 
in  egg,  and  fried  butter. 

To  make  Water-Souclice,  of  Perch,  Plaice,  or  Flounders. 

WASH  clean,  and  cut  the  fins  close  off  the  fish  ;  take  three 
pints  of  water,  a  few  of  the  fish,  some  clean  picked  and 
washed  parsley,  parsley-roots  washed  and  sliced,  and  stew 
till  quite  tender  :  pulp  them  through  a  sieve:  put  the  liquor 
and  pulp  into  a  stewpan,  together  with  the  fish  you  mean  to 
water-souchee,  adding  more  parsley  and  parsley-roots  as  be- 
fore, a  little  white  pepper  and  salt:  stew  till  done,  and  serve 
up  with  the  liquor,  parsley,  and  roots. 

Stewed  Oysters. 

OYSTERS  for  stewing,  should  be  of  the  largest  kind :  put 
the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  on  to  blanch,  and  as  soon  as 
they  boil,  take  them  up,  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  dry,  and 
strain  the  liquor  through  a  tamis  :  melt  a  bit  of  butter  in  a 
stewpan,  and  when  melted,  add  a  little  flour  and  their  liquor: 
stir  till  it  boil,  and  add  half  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  little 
beaten  mace,  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  half  a  pint  of  coulis 
(see  Sauces)  :  boil  for  a  few  minutes;  put  in  the  oysters,  and 
simmer  for  a  minute  or  two :  serve  with  sippets. 

Escaloped  Oysters. 

BLANCH  the  oysters,  beard  them,  and  strain  the  liquor;  put 
a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  when  melted,  add  as  much 
flour  as  will  dry  up  the  butter  :  now  add  the  oyster  liquor  and 
a  little  good  stock  (see  Sauces},  half  a  spoonful  of  essence  of 
anchovy,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  white  pepper,  and  salt:  boil 
for  a  few  minutes ;  put  in  the  oysters  to  heat  through,  and 
fill  the  escalop-shells,  having  previously  buttered  them  :  strew 


76  RAGOUTS. 

grated  bread  over  them,  and  drop  oiled  butter  on  the  top  :  put 
them  into  an  oven,  or  Dutch  oven,  and  if  not  sufficiently 
brown,  hold  the  salamander  over  them. 

Prawns,  Shrimps,  or  Crawfish. 

TAKE  about  two  quarts,  and  pick  out  their  tails.  Bruise 
the  bodies,  and  put  them  into  half  a  pint  of  white  wine  or 
cyder,  with  a  blade  of  mace,  and  some  coulisY^e  Sauces}. 
Let  them  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  stir  together,  and 
strain :  wash  out  the  saucepan,  and  put  tflnt  the  strained  li- 
quor and  tails.  Grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  add  salt,  white  pep- 
per, and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Shake 
all  together ;  cut  a  thin  toast  round  a  quartern  loaf,  toast 
brown,  on  both  sides,  cut  into  six  pieces,  lay  close  together  in 
the  bottom  of  your  dish,  and  pour  your  fish  and  sauce  over  it. 
Send  it  hot  to  table. 


CHAPTER  IX. 


RAGOUTS. 

Afore  Quarter  of  House  Lamb. 

V^UT  off  the  knuckle  bone,  and  take  off  the  skin.  Lard  it  all 
over  with  bacon,  and  fry  of  a  nice  light  brown.  Then  put  it 
into  a  stewpan,  and  just  cover  over  with  mutton  gravy,  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  some  pepper,  salt,  beaten  mace,  and  a  little 
whole  pepper.  Cover  close,  and  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Pour 
out  the  liquor,  and  take  care  to  keep  the  lamb  hot.  Strain 
off  the  gravy,  and  have  ready  half  a  pint  of  oysters  fried 
brown.  Pour  all  the  fat  from  them,  add  them  to  the  gravy, 
with  two  spoonsful  of  red  wine,  a  few  mushrooms,  and  a  bit 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Simmer  all  together,  with  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon.  Lay  the  lamb  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it. 

Beef. 

TAKE  a  large  piece  of  flank  of  beef,  which  is  fat  at  the  top, 
or  any  piece  that  is  fat  at  the  top  and  has  no  bones  in  it,  even 
the  rump  will  answer  the  purpose.  Strip  the  bone  very 
nicely,  flour  the  meat  well,  and  fry  it  brown  in  a  large  stew- 
pan,  with  a  little  butter  ;  then  cover  with  stock  (see  Sauces), 
adding  a  pint  of  port  wine,  two  spoonsful  of  walnut  ketchup, 
an  ounce  of  truffles  and  morels,  cut  small,  and  some  fried  or 


RAGOUTS.  11 

dried  mushrooms  also  cut  small.  Cover  close,  and  let  it  stew 
till  the  sauce  be  rich  and  thick.  Then  have  ready  some  ar- 
tichoke bottoms  quartered,  and  a  few  pickled  mushrooms. 
Give  the  whole  a  simmer,  and  when  your  meat  is  tender,  and 
your  sauce  rich,  lay  the  meat  into  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it.  You  may  add  a  sweetbread  cut  in  six  pieces,  a 
palate  stewed  tender,  and  cut  into  little  pieces,  some  cocks- 
combs,  and  a  few  forcemeat  balls. 

Ox  Palates. 
CLEAN  them  well,  and  boil  very  tender. 

Calf's  Feet. 

BOIL  the  feet,  bone  and  cut  the  meat  in  slices,  brown  the 
frying-pan,  and  put  them  in  some  good  beef  gravy,  with  mo- 
rels, truffles,  and  pickled  mushrooms,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
boiled  hard,  some  salt,  and  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

. 
Breast  of  Veal. 

HAVING  half  roasted  a  breast  of  veal,  bone  it,  and  put  it 
into  a  tossing-pan,  with  a  quart  of  veal  gravy,  an  ounce  of 
morels,  and  the  same  quantity  of  truffles.  Stew  till  tender, 
and  just  before  you  thicken  the  gravy,  put  in  a  few  oysters, 
some  pickled  mushrooms,  and  pickled  cucumbers,  all  cut  in 
small  square  pieces,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  boiled  hard. 
Cut  your  sweetbread  in  pieces,  and  fry  of  a  light  brown.  Dish 
up  your  veal,  and  pour  the  gravy  hot  upon  it. 

Neck  of  Veal. 

HAVING  cut  a  neck  of  veal  into  steaks,  flatten  them  with  a 
rolling-pin.  Season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  cloves,  and  mace ; 
lard  them  with  bacon,  lemon-peel,  and  thyme,  and  dip  them 
into  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Make  a  sheet  of  strong  foolscap  paper 
up  at  the  four  corners,  in  the  form  of  a  dripping-pan.  Pin  up 
the  corners,  butter  the  paper,  and  also  the  gridiron,  and  set  it 
over  a  charcoal  fire.  Put  in  your  meat,  and  let  it  do  lei- 
surely, keeping  it  basting  and  turning  to  keep  in  the  gravy. 
When  enough,  have  ready  half  a  pint  of  strong  cullis  (see 
Sauces),  season  high,  arid  put  in  mushrooms  and  pickles, 
forcemeat  balls  dipped  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  oysters  stewed 
and  fried,  to  lay  round  and  at  the  top  of  your  dish,  and  then 
serve  it  up.  If  for  a  brown  ragout,  put  in  red  wine ;  but  if  for 
a  white  one,  put  in  white  wine,  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  beat 
up  with  two  or  three  spoonsful  of  cream. 


"i  S  RAGOUTS. 


Sweetbreads  (brown). 

TAKE  throat  sweetbreads,  previously  blanched  and  cut  into 
slices ;  morels  blanched  and  cut  in  halves  ;  stewed  mush- 
rooms ;  egg  balls  (see  Sauces)  ;  artichoke  bottoms  or  Jerusa- 
lem artichokes,  parboiled  and  cut  in  pieces  ;  green  truffles 
pared  and  cut  in  thick  slices,  and  stewed  in  stock  till  nearly 
reduced  ;  and  cocks-combs  almost  boiled ;  mix  all  together, 
and  add  coulis  (see  Sauces),  half  a  pint;  port  wine,  four 
spoonsful;  walnut  ketchup,  two  spoonsful;  browning,  two 
spoonsful ;  cayenne  and  salt ;  stew  gently  for  a  quarter  of  au 
hour,  and  serve. 

Sweetbreads  (white). 

IN  a  stewpan,  put  stewed  mushrooms,  egg  balls,  slices  ot 
blanched  throat  sweetbreads,  cocks-combs  nearly  boiled,  four 
spoonsful  of  white  wine,  a  tea  spoonful  of  garlic  vinegar,  and 
half  a  pint  of  consume^  stew  ten  minutes,  strain  the  sauce 
into  another  stewpan,  and  reduce  over  the  fire  to  half  the 
quantity :  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  gill  of  cream,  a 
little  mace,  white  pepper,  and  salt ;  and  strain  through  a  sieve 
to  the  sweetbreads,  £c. :  simmer  for  five  minutes  (but  do  not 
boil ) ,  and  serve. 

Leg  of  Mutton. 

TAKE  off  all  the  skin  and  fat,  and  cut  it  very  thin  the  right 
way  of  the  grain  ;  then  butter  your  stewpan,  and  shake  some 
Hour  into  it.  Slice  half  a  lemon,  and  half  an  onion,  cut  them 
very  small,  and  add  a  little  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  blade 
of  mace.  Put  these  and  your  meat  into  the  pan,  stir  a 
minute  or  two,  and  then  put  in  six  spoonsful  of  gravy.  Have 
ready  an  anchovy,  minced  small,  and  mixed  with  some  but- 
ter and  flour.  Stir  it  all  together  for  six  minutes,  and  then 
dish  it  up. 

Goose. 

BREAK  the  breast  bone  of  the  goose,  and  make  it  quite  flat, 
When  it  is  skinned,  dip  it  into  boiling  water;  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  mace  beaten  to  powder:  lard,  and 
then  flour  it  all  over.  Take  near  a  pound  of  beef  suet  cut 
small,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  according  to  the  size  of  the  goose; 
when  melted,  and  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  goose.  When  brown 
all  over,  add  to  it  a  quart  of  beef  stock  (see  Sauces),  boiling 
hot,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  few  cloves, 
some  whole  pepper,  two  or  three  small  onions,  and  a  bay  leaf! 


RAGOUTS.  19 

Cover  very  close,  and  stew  very  softly.  An  hour  will  do  it, 
if  a  small  one ;  if  a  large  one,  an  hour  and  a  half.  Make  the 
following  ragout  for  it :  some  turnips  and  carrots  cut  as  for  a 
harrico  of-mutton,  and  some  onions,  all  boiled  enongh,  and 
half  a  pint  of  rich  beef  stock.  Put  them  all  into  astewpan, 
with  some  pepper,  salt,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Let  them  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Take  the  goose  out  of 
the  stewpan  when  done,  drain  well  from  the  liquor  it  was 
stewed  in,  serve  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  ragout  over  it. 

Pigs  Feet  and  Ears. 

HAVING  stewed  the  feet  and  ears  in  good  veal  stock,  split  tjae 
feet  down  the  middle,  and  cut  the  ears  in  narrow  slices  :  dip 
them  in  yolk  of  egg  and  grated  bread,  and  fry  brown. 
Put  a  little  veal  stock  in  a  tossing-pan,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of 
lemon-pickle,  a  large  one  of  mushroom  ketchup,  the  same  of 
browning,  and  a  little  salt.  Thicken  with  a  lump  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  put  in  your  feet  and  ears.  Let  them  boil 
gently,  and  when  enough,  lay  your  feet  in  the  middle  of  the 
dish,  and  the  ears  round  them  ;  then  strain  your  gravy,  pour 
it  over  them. 

Livers, 

TAKE  as  many  livers  as  you  would  have  for  your  dish.  The 
liver  of  a  turkey,  and  six  fowl  livers,  will  make  a  pretty  dish. 
Pick  the  galls  from  them,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water. 
Put  the  livers  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  stock, 
a  spoonful  of  mushrooms,  either  pickled  or  fresh,  the  same 
quantity  of  ketchup,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  nut- 
meg, rolled  in  flour.  Season  to  your  taste  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  let  them  stew  gently  ten  minutes.  In  the  meantime 
broil  the  turkey's  liver  nicely,  and  lay  it  in  the  middle,  with 
the  stewed  livers  round  it.  Pour  the  sauce  over  all,  and 
serve. 

Mushrooms. 

PEEL  some  large  mushrooms,  and  take  out  the  inside. 
Broil  them  on  a  gridiron,  and  when  the  outside  is  brown,  put 
them  in  a  tossing-pan,  with  stock  (see  Sauces),  sufficient  to 
cover  them  :  let  them  stand  ten  minutes,  add  a  spoonful  of 
port  wine,  the  same  of  bVowning,  and  a  very  little  eschalot 
vinegar.  Thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  and  boil  a  little. 
Serve  it  up  with  sippets  round  the  dish. 

Artichoke  Bottoms. 

LET  them  lie  in  warm  water  for  two  or  three  hours  chang- 
ing the  water.  Put  to  them  some  good  gravy,  mushroom 


80  RAGOUTS. 

ketchup,  or  powder,  cayenne  and  salt.    Thicken  with  a  little 
flour,  and  boil  all  together. 

Asparagus. 

SCRAPE  one  hundred  of  grass  very  clean,  and  throw  it  into 
cold  water;  then  cut  it  as  far  as  it  is  good  and  green,  about 
an  inch  long,  and  take  two  ends  of  endive,  clean  picked  and 
washed,  and  cut  very  small ;  a  young  lettuce,  clean  washed, 
and  cut  small,  and  a  large  onion  peeled  and  cut  small.  Put  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  when  melt- 
ed, throw  in  the  above  ingredients.  Toss  them  about,  and 
fry  them  ten  minutes;  then  season  with  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  shake  in  a  little  flour,  toss  them  about,  and  pour  in  half 
a  pint  of  veal  stock.  Let  them  stew  till  the  sauce  is  very 
thick  and  good,  and  then  pour  all  into  your  dish.  Garnish  the 
dish  with  a  few  of  the  little  tops  of  the  grass. 

Cucumbers. 

TAKE  two  cucumbers  and  two  onions :  slice  and  fry  them 
in  a  little  butter  :  drain  them  in  a  sieve,  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  ;  add  six  spoonsful  of  stock,  two  of  white  wine,  and 
a  blade  of  mace.  Let  them  stew  five  or  six  minutes  ;  and  take 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in  flour,  a  little 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Shake  them  together,  and  when 
thick,  serve  up. 

Cauliflowers. 

WASH  a  large  cauliflower  very  clean,  and  pick  it  into  pieces 
as  for  pickling  :  take  brown  cullis,  and  stew  till  tender  :  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  them  into  the  dish  with  the 
sauce  over  them. 

Muscles. 

MELT  a  little  butter  in  a  stewpan,  take  the  muscles  out  of 
their  shells,  fry  them  a  minute  with  a  little  chopped  parsley ; 
shake  over  them  a  little  flour,  put  in  a  little  cream,  white 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  lemon  juice.  Boil  them  up.  If  they 
are  to  be  brown,  put  good  gravy  instead  of  cream. 

Another  Method. 

WHEN  the  muscles  are  well  cleaned,  stew  them  without 
water  till  they  open.  Take  from  them  the  shells,  and  save 
the  liquor.  Put  into  a  stewpan  a  bit  of  butter,  with  a  few 
mushrooms  chopped,  a  little  parsley,  and  a  little  grated  le- 
mon peel :  stir  this  a  little  about,  put  in  some  stock,  with  pep- 
per and  salt ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  boil  it  up,  put  in  the 


FfclCANDEAUS.  81 

muscles  with  a  little  liquor,  and  let  them  be  hot.  When  mus- 
cles are  stewed,  throw  among  them  half  a  crown,  or  any  piece 
of  silver;  if  that  be  not  discoloured,  the  muscles  may  be  eaten 
w  tn  the  greatest  safety,  without  taking  any  thing  out  of  them, 
as  is  the  usual  method. 

Oysters. 

BLANCH  two  dozen  large  oysters,  and  having  preserved  the 
liquor,  wash  and  beard  them :  put  into  a  stewpan,  adding 
stewed  mushrooms ;  a  throat  sweetbread,  blanched  and  cut 
into  slices;  the  liquor  strained  from  the  sediment;  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  strong  veal  stock  (see  Sauces} ;  two  spoonfuls  of 
ketchup;  one  spoonful  of  lemon  pickle;  cayenne,  and  salt 
to  the  palate:  thicken  with  butter  and  flour;  add  a  spoonful 
of  browning;  and  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes. 


CHAPTER  X, 

FRICANDEAUS. 


.T  ROM  a  fillet  of  veal,  cut  a  long  or  round  piece  ;  flatten  with 
a  chopper;  make  an  incision  in  the  underside;  stuff  with 
forcemeat  containing  oysters  (see  Sauces)  ;  fasten  up  the  in- 
cision with  a  small  and  clean  wire  skewer  ;  lard  neatly  with 
fat  bacon,  and  put  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  weak  stock  ; 
stew  till  brown  and  tender:  into  another  stewpan  put  carrots, 
onions,  turnips,  celery,  all  cut  small  ;  allspice,  two  cloves,  and 
a  little  pepper  :  over  these  put  some  slices  of  fat  bacon  ;  then 
put  in  the  fricandeau,  with  some  good  veal  stock  (see  Sauces  )  : 
let  the  whole  simmer  till  the  veal  is  exceedingly  tender,  and 
the  gravy  is  nearly  reduced.  Have  ready  some  stewed  sorrel 
(see  Stewing),  and  serve  the  veal  upon  it:  or  for  want  of 
sorrel,  take  stewed  spinage  (see  Stewing)  ,  and  make  it  a  little 
acid  with  lemon  juice. 

Beef. 

CUT  some  slices  of  beef  five  or  six  inches  long,  and  half  an 
inch  thick  ;  lard  them  with  bacon,  dredge  with  flour,  and  set 
it  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  a  brisk  fire  to  brown  :  ihen  put 
it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  of  good  stock  (see  Sauces  J,  some 
truffles,  morels,  and  half  a  lemon  cut  in  slices;  stew  half 
an  hour  ;  add  one  spoonful  of  ketchup,  one  spoonful  of  brown- 
ing, and  a  little  cayenne  pepper  :  thicken  with  butter  and 
flour  :  serve,  and  lay  over  it,  forcemeat  balls,  (see  Sauces},  and 
hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs  round  it. 


82  PRICASEES. 

Mutton. 

FROM  the  leg,  cut  long  slices  with  the  grain  \  flatten  with 
a  chopper ;  and  having  larded  it  with  fat  bacon,  put  it  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  pint  of  stock  (see  Sauces)  ,  two  spoonfuls  of 
walnut  ketchup ;  a  spoonful  of  eschalot  vinegar ;  a  gill  of  port 
wine  ;  some  onions,  carrots,  turnips,  and  celery,  all  cut  small; 
cover  close  and  stew  till  very  tender,  and  all  the  liquor  is 
nearly  reduced:  take  up  the  mutton,  glaze  it  (see  Sauces J , 
and  serve  with  stewed  sorrel  or  spinage. — See  Stewing. 

N.  B.  All  lardings  should  be  put  into  the  oven  a  few  mi- 
nutes before  they  are  glazed. 

Fowl. 

BONE  a  large  fowl  without  cutting  the  skin,  and  singe  it ; 
lard  it,  and  lay  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  with  slices  of  bacon  ; 
upon  the  bacon  lay  the  bones  of  the  fowl  and  any  other 
trimmings,  and  upon  these,  the  fowl ;  put  in  a  pint  of  weak 
stock  (see  Sauces},  a  few  bay  leaves,  onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet 
herbs ;  cover  the  fowl  with  slices  of  bacon,  arjd  over  that  a 
sheet  of  paper  cut  to  the  size  of  the  stewpan  :  set  it  on  a  stove, 
put  fire  on  the  top  of  the  stewpan,  and  simmer  slowly  for  one 
hour  and  a  half:  take  it  up,  put  into  an  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  to  raise  the  larding  ;  glaze  (see  Sauces) ,  and  serve 
up  on  stewed  endive. — See  Stewing. 

Turtle 

MAY  be  dressed  in  .the  same  manner  as  veal,  having  a  little 
white  wine  added  to  it. 


CHAPTER  XL 
FRICASEES. 

Lamb-Stones. 

1  AKE  what  quantity  you  please  of  lamb-stones,  dip  them  in 
batter,  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown  in  hog's  lard.  Have 
ready  a  little  veal  stock  (see  Sauces),  and  thicken  with  butter 
and  flour.  Put  in  a  slice  of  lemon,  a  little  mushroom  ket- 
chup, a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  and  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg. Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  mix  with  two  spoonfuls  of 
cream.  Put  in  your  gravy  and  keep  shaking  it  over  the  fire 
till  it  look  white  and  thick  ;  then  put  in  the  lamb-stones,  and 
give  them  a  shake.  When  they  are  properly  heated,  serve 
up,  and  lay  boiled  forcemeat  balls  round  them 


FRICASEES.  83 

Calf's  Feet. 

BOIL  them,  take  out  the  long  bones,  split,  and  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  some  veal  stock,  and  a  very  little  white 
wine.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  with  a  little  cream, 
and  put  to  them  a  liitle  grated  nutmeg,  some  salt,  and  a  piece 
of  butter.  Stir  till  of  a  proper  thickness. 

Swettbreads  (white). 

SCALD,  and  cut  them  in  long  slices;  thicken  some  veal 
stock  with  a  bit  of  butter  mixed  with  flour,  a  little  cream, 
some  grated  lemon  peel,  and  nutmeg,  white  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  little  mushroom  powder  and  liquor.  Stew  this  a  little  time, 
put  in  the  sweetbreads,  and  simmer  them,  shaking  the  pan. 
Squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Sweetbreads  (brown). 

FIRST  scald  two  or  three,  and  then  slice  them  ;  dip  them 
in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  mixed  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and 
a  little  flour.  Fry  them  a  nice  brown  ;  thicken  a  little  good 
stock  with  some  flour;  boil  it  well,  and  add  cayenne,  ketchup, 
or  mushroom  powder,  and  a  little  juice  of  lemon.  Stew  the 
sweetbreads  in  this  a  few  minutes,  and  garnish  with  lemon. 

Sweetbreads  and  Palates. 

PARBOIL  one  or  two  sweetbreads  ;  stew  two  or  three  palates 
till  very  tender  ;  blanch  and  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  slice  the 
sweetbreads.  Dip  these  in  eggs,  strew  over  them  very  fine 
grated  bread,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a 
pounded  clove;  fry  and  drain  them;  thicken  some  good  gravy 
with  a  little  flour  ;  add  cayenne,  ketchup,  and  salt,  if  neces- 
sary. Stew  them  in  this  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  add  a 
few  pickled  mushrooms  or  lemon-juice ;  lamb-stones  may  be 
added,  parboiled  and  fried.  Palates  do  very  well  alone} 
dressed  as  above,  or  with  the  sweetbread  roasted,  and  put  in 
the  middle  of  the  dish. 

Ox  Palates. 

WASH  your  ox  palates  in  several  waters,  and  lay  them  in 
warm  water  for  half  an  hour ;  then  put  them  in  a  stewpot,  and 
cover  them  with  water.  Put  them  in  the  oven  for  three  or 
four  hours,  take  them  out,  strip  off  the  skins,  and  cut  them  into 
square  pieces.  Season  with  cayenne,  salt,  mace,  and  nutmeg . 
Mix  a  spoonful  of  flour  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  dip  your 
palates  into  it,  and  fry  till  of  a  light  brown.  Put  them  in  & 
sieve  to  drain,  and  have  ready  half  a  pint  of  veal  stock,  with 
a  little  caper  liquor,  a  spoonful  of  browning,  and  a  few  mush- 
rooms. Thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  pour  it  hot  into  your 
dish  ;  then  lay  on  your  palates. 

02 


84-  PRICASKES. 

Chickens  (white}. 

CUT  them  into  pieces,  and  blanch  and  drain  them  dry  ;  put 
(hem  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  veal  stock  (see  Sauces ) ,  a 
blade  of  mace,  and  an  onion :  stew  gently  till  three  parts  done; 
add  slices  of  blanched  throat  sweetbreads ;  white  button  mush- 
rooms, stewed ;  egg-balls  (see  Sauces},  and  pieces  of  artichoke 
bottoms  previously  blanched  and  parboiled;  when  nearly 
stewed,  season  with  white  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon  juice ; 
simmer  till  done  ;  take  up  the  chickens ;  set  the  sauce  on  the 
fire  till  nearly  reduced,  and  add  benshamelle  (see  Sauces}. 

Chickens  (brown}. 

CUT  the  chickens  into  pieces ;  fry  them  in  a  little  lard  till 
of  a  light  brown  ;  drain  them  in  a  cloth  very  dry ;  put  them 
in  a  stewpan  ;  add  button  rnushrooms  stewed,  pieces  of  arti- 
choke bottoms  previously  blanched  and  parboiled,  blanched 
truffles,  morels,  egg  balls  (see  Sauces},  a  spoonful  of  brown- 
ing (see  Sauces},  and  some  well  seasoned  cullis ;  stew  gently 
till  done,  and  serve  with  fried  oysters. 

Pulled  Chicken. 

BOIL  a  chicken  till  three  parts  done,  and  let  it  stand  till 
cold ;  take  off  the  skin,  cut  the  white  meat  into  slips,  put 
them  into  a  stewpan,  add  a  little  cream,  four  spoonsful  of 
veal  stock,  a  very  little  grated  lemon  peel,  and  pounded 
mace,  cayenne,  salt,  one  eschalot  chopped,  a  little  lemon  juice, 
and  a  spoonful  of  consume  (see  Sauces}  ;  thicken  it  with  a 
little  flour  and  water,  set  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes  to  sim- 
mer ;  in  the  meantime  score  the  legs  and  rump,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  broil  of  a  good  colour,  and  serve  them  up 
over  the  pulled  chicken. 

Pulled  Fowl. 

PROCEED  as  with  the  chicken  ;  but  instead  of  thickening 
with  flour  and  water,  add,  five  minutes  before  it  is  to  be 
served  up,  a  leason  (see  Sauces}  of  two  eggs. 

Pulled  Turkey. 

PROCEED  as  with  the  chicken  ;  but  instead  of  thickening 
with  flour  and  water,  add,  ten  minutes  before  it  is  to  be  served 
up,  some  benshamelle. 

Pigeons. 

CUT  your  pigeons  as  above  described  for  chickens,  and  fry 
them  of  a  light  brown.  Put  them  into  some  good  mutton, 
stock,  and  stew  them  near  half  an  hour;  then  put  in  a  slice 
of  lemon,  half  an  ounce  of  morels,  and  a  spoonful  of  brown- 
ing. Thicken  your  gravy,  and  strain  it  over  your  pigeons. 

Another  method  to  fricasee  pigeons  is  as  follows :  take  eight 


FIUCASEES.  85 

pigeons,  just  killed,  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces.  Put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  with  a  pint  of  water,  and  the  same  quantity 
of  claret.  Season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  blade  or  two 
of  mace,  an  onion,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  large  piece 
of  butter  rolled  in  a  little  flour.  Cover  close,  and  Jet  them 
stew  till  there  is  just  enough  for  sauce.  Then  take  out  the 
onion  and  sweet  herbs,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  grate 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  with  a  spoon  push  the  meat  to  one  side 
of  the  pan,  and  the  gravy  to  the  other,  and  stir  in  the  eggs. 
Keep  them  stirring  to  prevent  their  curdling,  and  when  the 
sauce  is  fine  and  thick,  shake  all  together.  Put  the  meat  into 
the  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  it,  and  have  ready  some  slices 
of  bacon  toasted,  and  oysters  fried :  scatter  the  oysters  over 
it,  and  Jay  the  bacon  round  it. 

Rabbits  (white). 

PROCEED  as  directed  for  chickens;  but  when  nearly  stewed, 
season  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  a  little  lemon  juice  ;  add 
a  leason  (see  Sauces)  of  three  eggs;  simmer  for  five  minutes, 
take  care  not  to  let  it  curdle,  and  serve  up  hot,  with  the  mace 
and  onion  taken  out. 

Rabbits  (brown). 

MAY  be  dressed  after  the  manner  already  described  for 
chickens  brown. 

Neafs  Tongues. 

BOIL  your  tongues  till  tender,  peel  and  cut  them  into  slices, 
and  fry  them  in  fresh  butter.  Then  pour  out  the  butter,  put 
in  as  much  stock  as  you  may  want  for  sauce,  a  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  some  pepper  and  salt,  a  blade  or  two 
of  mace,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Having  simmered  all 
together  about  half  an  hour,  take  out  the  tongues,  strain  the 
gravy,  and  put  both  that  and  the  tongues  into  the  stewpan 
again.  Beat  up  the  yolks  cf  two  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg  grated, 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Shake  all  toge- 
ther for  four  or  five  minutes,  and  dish  it  up. 

Tripe  (white). 

CUT  the  tripe  into  small  slips,  and  boil  in  a  little  consume 
(see  Sauces) ,  till  the  liquor  is  nearly  reduced  ;  add  a  leason 
(see  Sauces)  of  two  yolks  of  eggs  and  cream,  salt,  cayenne, 
and  chopped  parsley  •  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  five 
minutes,  and  serve :  or  instead  of  the  leason,  benshamelle  and 
chopped  parsley  may  be  added. 

Tripe  (brown). 

CUT  the  tripe  into  triangular  shapes;  add  mushrooms  chop- 
ped fine,  a  little  scalded  parsley  chopped,  an  anchovy  rubbed 


through  a  hair  sieve,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  browning,  and 
white  wine,  a  gill  of  cullis  (see  Sauces} ,  season  to  the  palate 
with  cayenne,  white  pepper,  and  salt  ;  simmer  gently  till 
done,  and  serve  hot. 

Artichoke  Bottoms. 

THESE  may  be  fricaseed,  either  dried  or  pickled  ;  if  dried, 
lay  them  three  or  four  hours  in  warm  water,  shifting  the  water 
two  or  three  times  :  have  ready  a  little  cream,  and  a  piece  of 
fresh  butter,  stirred  together  one  way  over  the  fire  till  it  is 
melted:  put  in  the  artichokes,  and  when  hot,  serve  them  up. 

Mushrooms. 

HAVING  peeled  and  scraped  the  inside  of  }rour  mushrooms, 
throw  them  into  salt  and  water  ;  but  if  buttons,  rub  them  with 
flannel:  take  them  out  and  boil  them  in  water,  with  some  salt 
in  it,  and  when  tender,  put  in  a  little  shred  parsley,  and  an 
onion  stuck  with  cloves.  Toss  them  up,  with  a  good  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  add  two  spoonfuls  of  thick  cream, 
and  a  little  grated  nutmeg ;  the  onion  must  be  taken  out  before 
you  send  your  mushrooms  to  table.  Instead  of  the  parsley, 
you  may,  if  you  choose,  put  in  a  glass  of  wine. 

Skirrets. 

HAVING  washed  the  roots  well,  and  boiled  them  till  they 
are  tender,  take  off  the  skin  of  the  roots,  and  cut  them  into 
slices.  Have  ready  a  little  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
:flour,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten,  a  little  nutmeg  grated,  two 
or  three  spoonfuls  of  white  wine,  a  very  little  salt,  and  stir  all 
together.  Put  your  roots  into  the  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  them. 

Eggs. 

BOIL  your  eggs  hard,  and  take  out  some  of  the  yolks  whole. 
Then  cut  the  rest  in  quarters,  yolks  and  whites  together. 
Set  on  some  stock,  with  a  little  shred  thyme  and  parsley  in 
it,  and  give  it  a  boil  or  two.  Then  put  in  your  eggs  with  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  and  shake  it  up  with  a  piece  of  butter, 
till  of  a  proper  thickness.  Fry  artichoke  bottoms  in  thin 
slices,  and  garnish  with  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  shred  small. 

Eggs,  with  Onions  and  Mushrooms. 

BOIL  the  eggs  hard,  take  the  yolks  out  whole,  cut  the  whites 
in  slips,  with  some  onions  and  mushrooms,  and  fry  the  onions 
and  mushrooms.  Throw  in  the  whites,  and  turn  them  about 
a  httle.  If  there  is  any  fat  pour  it  off.  Flour  the  onions,  &c 
put  to  it  a  little  good  stock,  boil  this  up,  and  add  pepper  and 
salt,  and  the  yolks. 


FRICASEES.  87 

Cod  Sounds. 

CLEAN  them  well,  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces.  Boil 
them  tender  in  milk  and  water,  and  put  them  to  drain.  Put 
them  into  a  clean  saucepan,  and  season  them  with  beaten  mace 
and  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  in 
a  cupful  of  cream,  with  a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  keep  shaking  it  till  thick  enough. 

Soles. 

SKIN,  gut,  and  wash  your  soles  very  clean,  cut  off  their 
heads,  and  dry  your  fish  in  a  cloth.  Then  very  carefully  cut 
the  flesh  from  the  bones  and  fins  on  both  sides,  and  cut  the  flesh 
longways,  and  then  across,  so  that  each  sole  may  be  in  eight 
pieces.  Take  the  heads  and  bones,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  a  pint  of  water,  a  bundle  of -sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  a 
little  whole  pepper,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a  little  salt,  a 
small  piece  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  crust  of  bread.  Cover  close, 
and  let  it  boil  till  half  be  wasted.  Then  strain  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan.  Put  in  the  soles  and  with 
them  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine, 
a  few  mushrooms  cut  small,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Set  all  together  on  the  fire,  but 
keep  shaking  the  pan  all  the  while  till  the  fish  is  enough. 

Plaice  and  Flounders. 

RUN  your  knife  all  along  upon  the  bone  on  the  back  side  of 
the  fish,  and  raise  the  flesh  on  both  sides,  from  the  head  to 
the  tail.  Then  take  out  the  bone  clear,  and  cut  your  fish  in 
six  collops.  Dry  it  well,  sprinkle  with  salt,  dredge  them  with 
flour,  and  fry  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  beef  dripping,  so  that  the 
fish  may  be  crisp.  Take  it  out  of  the  pan,  and  keep  it  warm 
before  the  fire;  then  clean  the  pan,  and  put  into  it  some 
minced  oysters,  and  their  liquor  strained,  some  white  wine,  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  and  three  anchovies.  Having  "stewed 
these  up  together,  put  in  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  then 
your  fish.  Toss  them  well  together,  dish  them  on  sippets,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

Skate  or  Thornback. 

HAVING  cut  the  meat  clean  from  the  bone,  fins,  &c.  make  it 
very  clean.  Then  cut  it  into  thin  pieces,  about  an  inch  broad, 
and  two  inches  long,  and  lay  them  in  your  stewpan.  To  one 
pound  of  the  flesh  put  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  a  little 
beaten  mace,  and  grated  nutmeg ;  a  small  bundle  of  sweet 
herbs,  and  a  little  salt.  Cover  it  and  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Take  out  the  sweet  herbs,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good 


88  MADE  DISHES. 

cream,  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in  flour, 
and  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Keep  shaking  the  pan  ail  the 
time  one  way,  till  it  is  thick  and  smooth  ;  then  serve. 

Fish  in  general. 

Tofricasee  fish  in  general,  melt  butter  according  to  the 
quantity  of  your  fish,  and  cut  your  fish  in  pieces  of  the  length 
and  breadth  of  three  fingers.  Then  put  them  and  your  but- 
ter into  a  stewpan,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  :  but  take  care  that 
it  does  not  boil  too  fast,  as  that  may  break  the  fish,  and  turn 
the  butter  into  oil.  Turn  them  often,  till  enough,  having  first 
put  in  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  two  or  three  an- 
chovies cut  small,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  some  nutmeg,  mace, 
lemon  peel,  and  two  or  three  cloves  ;  then  put  in  some  claret, 
and  let  them  stew  altogether.  Beat  up  six  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
put  them  in  with  such  pickles  as  you  please,  as  mushrooms, 
capers,  and  oysters.  Shake  them  well  together,  that  they 
may  not  curdle  ;  and  if  you  put  the  spice  in  whole,  take  it  out 
when  done.  The  seasoning  ought  to  be  stewed  first  in  a  little 
water,  and  the  butter  melted  in  that  and  the  wine  before  you 
put  your  fish  in.  Jacks  eat  very  well  done  in  this  manner. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

MADE    DISHES. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

As  this  is  one  of  the  most  important  chapters  in  this  book, 
it  may  not  be  improper  to  give  the  young  cook  some  general 
hints.  It  is  an  important  point  to  take  care  that  all  the  cop- 
per-vessels are  well  tinned,  and  kept  perfectly  clean  from  any 
foulness  or  grittiness.  Before  you  put  eggs  or  cream  into 
your  white  sauce,  have  all  your  other  ingredients  well  boiled, 
and  the  whole  of  a  proper  thickness  ;  for  neither  eggs  nor 
cream  will  contribute  much  to  thicken  it.  After  you  have  put 
them  in,  do  not  stir  them  with  a  spoon,  nor  set  your  pan  on 
the  fire,  for  fear  it  should  gather  at  the  bottom,  and  be  lum- 
py ;  but  hold  your  pan  at  a  proper  height  from  the  fire,  and 
keep  shaking  it  round  one  way,  which  will  keep  the  sauce  from 
curdling;  and  be  particularly  cautious  that  you  do  not  suffer 
it  tp  boU.  Remember  to  take  out  your  collops,  meat,  or  what' 


MADE  DISHES.  89 

ever  you  are  dressing,  with  a  fish  slice,  and  strain  your  sauce 
upon  it,  which  will  prevent  small  bits  of  meat  mixing  with 
your  sauce,  and  thereby  leave  it  clear  and  fine.  In  browning 
dishes,  be  particularly  cautious  that  no  fat  rioats  on  the  top  of 
your  gravy,  which  will  be  the  case  if  you  do  not  properly 
skim  it.  It  should  be  of  a  fin,1  bro  n,  without  any  one  pre- 
dominant taste,  which  must  depend  on  the  judicious  propor- 
tion in  the  mixture  of  your  various  articles  of  ingredients.  .  If 
you  make  use  of  wine,  or  anchovy,  take  off  its  rawness,  by 
putting  it  in  some  time  before  your  dish  is  ready  ;  for  nothing 
injures  the  reputation  of  a  made  dish  so  much  as  raw  wine,  or 
fresh  anchovy.  Be  sure  to  put  your  fried  forcemeat  balls  to 
drain  on  a  sieve,  that  the  fat  may  run  from  them ;  and  never 
let  them  boil  in  your  sauce,  as  that  will  soften  them  and  give 
them  a  greasy  appearance.  To  put  them  in  after  the  meat 
is  dished  up,  is  indisputably  the  best  method.  In  almost 
every  made  dish,  you  may  use  forcemeat  balls,  morels,  truffles, 
artichoke  bottoms,  and  pickled  mushrooms;  and,  in  several 
made  dishes,  a  roll  of  forcemeat  may  supply  the  place  of 
balls ;  and  where  it  can  be  used  with  propriety,  it  is  to  be  pre- 
ferred. 

Beef-a-la-mode, 

HAVING  boned  a  rump  of  beef,  lard  the  top  with  bacon, 
and  make  the  following  forcemeat :  take  four  ounces  of 
marrow,  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  few  sweet  herbs  (hop- 
ped small,  one  clove  of  garlick,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  nutmeg ;  then  beat  up  the  yolks  of  four  eo;gs.  mix  all 
together,  and  stuff  it  into  the  beef  where  the  bone  was  ex- 
tracted, and  also  in  several  of  the  lean  parts.  Skewer  it 
round  and  fasten  it  properly  with  a  tape.  Put  it  into  the  pot, 
adding  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  tie  the  pot  down  with  a  strong 
paper.  Put  it  into  the  oven  for  three  or  four  hours,  and 
when  it  comes  out,  if  to  be  eaten  hot,  skim  the  fat  from 
the  gravy,  and  add  a  spoonful  of  pickled  mushrooms,  and  half 
an  ounce  of  morels.  Thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  serve 
up,  and  pour  on  your  gravy.  Garnish  it  with  forcemeat 
balls. 

Or  take  a  thick  flank,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  make  holes 
deep  enough  for  the  following  larding:  bacon  cut  into  Jong 
slices  nearly  an  inch  thick,  dipped  first  into  vinegar,  and  after- 
wards into  black  pepper,  allspice,  a  clove,  and  salt,  all  finely 
powdered;  parsley,  thyme,  marjoram,  and  chives,  shred  very 
fine  :  with  this  larding  fill  all  the  holes  in  the  beef  ;  rub  the 
remainder  of  the  spices  and  herbs  upon  the  beef,  and  bind  up 
tight  with  a  tape :  put  the  beef  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of 


y()  MADE  DISHES. 

water,  a  pint  of  table  beer,  four  spoonsful  of  vinegar,  four 
onions  previously  roasted,  two  carrots,  one  turnip,  and  two 
heads  of  celery,  cut  in  pieces  :  stew  very  gently  for  six  or 
eight  hours ,  take  up  the  beef,  pull  off  the  tape,  skim  the 
gravy,  strain  off  the  herbs,  and  to  the  gravy  add  a  glass  of 
port  wine:  let  it  boil  five  minutes;  and  serve  in  a  tureen, 
pouring  it  over  the  beef. 

Beef-a-la-royal. 

TAKE  a  brisket  of  beef,  bone  it,  and  with  a  knife  make  holes 
in  it  about  an  inch  from  each  other.  Fill  one  hole  with  fat 
bacon,  a  second  with  parsley  chopped,  and  a  third  with  chop- 
ped oysters.  Let  these  stuffings  be  seasoned  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  nutmeg.  U  hen  the  beef  is  completely  stuffed, 
pour  upon  it  a  pint  of  wine  boiling  hot,  then  dredge  it  well 
with  flour,  and  send  it  to  the  oven.  Let  it  remai'i  in  the  oven 
better  than  three  hours,  and  when  it  comes  out,  skim  off  the 
fat,  strain  the  gravy  over  the  beef,  and  serve. 

Beef -a-la- daub. 

BONE  a  rump  of  beef,  or  take  a  part  of  the  leg-of-mutton 
piece,  or  a  piece  of  the  buttock,  and  daub  either  of  them  with 
slips  of  fat  bacon,  seasoned  with  sweet  herbs,  eschalots,  beaten 
spices,  pepper,  and  salt:  bind  it  round  with  tape,  and  having 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  sufficiency  of  weak  stock,  braise 
till  tender  (set  Sauces);  wipe  dry,  glaze  the  top,  serve  up 
with  the  same  round  it;  and  either  onion,  savoy,  haricot,  or 
ashee  sauces. 

Beef  Olives. 

TAKE  rump-steaks  cut  rather  thin,  and  having  trimmed  them 
neatly,  beat  well  with  a  paste-pin  ;  rub  them  over  with  yolk 
of  egg,  and  sprinkle  them  with  sweet  herbs  shred  fine,  and 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt :  roll  them  up  tight,  and  having 
put  a  little  stock  at  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  that  will  exactly 
hold  them,  lay  them  in,  cover  with  sheets  of  fat  bacon,  and 
over  them  with  writing  paper:  stew  them  very  gently  over  a 
stove  till  tender,  take  up  the  beef,  put  aside  the  bacon,  strain 
and  skim  the  gravy,  and  to  it  add  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  the 
same  of  port  wine,  half  a  pint  of  sauce  tournay  (see  Sauces}, 
a  spoonful  of  browning,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt:  thicken 
with  flour ;  let  it  boil,  and  pour  OA'er  the  beef. 

Beef  tremblonque. 

TIE  up  closely  the  fat  end  of  a  brisket  of  beef,  and  boil  it 
six  hours  very  gently.  Season  the  water  with  a  little  salt, 


MADE  DISHES.  91 

allspice,  two  onions,  two  turnips,  and  a  carrot.  In  the  mean- 
time, put  a  piece  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  melt  it.  Then 
put  in  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  till  smooth.  Put  in  a 
quart  of  stock,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  the  same  of  browning, 
turnips  and  carrots,  and  cut  them  as  for  harrico  of  mutton  : 
stew  gently  till  the  roots  are  tender,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Skim  the  fat  clean  off,  put  the  beef  in  a  dish,  and 
pour  the  sauce  "over  it. 

Beef  Chops. 

TAKE  rump-steaks,  or  the  fillet  from  the  under  part  of  a 
rump  of  beef :  cut  into  small  thin  slices,  fry  in  butter  till  half 
done :  add  slices  of  pickled  cucumbers,  small  mushrooms 
stewed,  oysters  blanched,  and  some  well  seasoned  coulis  (see 
Sauces)  :  stew  till  tender. 

Fillet  of  Beef. 

FROM  a  small  rump  of  beef,  take  out  the  bone,  and  force 
the  cavity  with  the  following  forcemeat :  lean  veal,  ham,  and 
fat  bacon  cut  in  pieces;  chopped  parsley,  thyme,  eschalots, 
blanched  oysters,  pepper,  salt,  lemon  juice,  a  few  cleaned 
mushrooms,  grated  bread,  and  yolks  of  eggs  :  turn  it  round 
like  a  fillet  of  veal ;  and  having  covered  it  with  paper,  half 
roast  it :  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  some  good  stock  ;  simmer 
till  tender  and  the  gravy  is  nearly  consumed,  take  up  the  beef, 
wipe  dry,  and  glaze:  skim  the  gravy,  and  add  a  spoonful  of  le- 
mon pickle,  two  of  ketchup,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  ravigot 
sauce  (see  Sauces)  :  give  the  sauce  a  boil,  and  serve,  pouring 
the  sauce  round  the  meat. 

Bouillie  Beef. 

PUT  the  thick  end  of  a  brisket  of  beef  into  a  kettle,  and 
cover  it  over  with  water.  Let  it  boil  fast  for  two  hours,  then 
stew  it  close  by  the  fireside  for  six  hours  more :  put  in  with 
the  beef  some  turnips  cut  in  slices,  some  carrots,  and  some 
celery  cut  in  pieces.  About  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  take  as 
much  stock  as  will  fill  your  tureen,  and  boil  in  it,  for  an  hour, 
turnips  and  carrots  cut  out  in  little  round  or  square  pieces, 
with  some  celery,  and  season  it  to  your  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Serve  in  the  tureen. 

Bouillie  Beef  au  Choux. 

TAKE  six  pounds  of  brisket  of  beef  which  has  been  salted 
two  days  :  stew  in  weak  stock  till  tender :  whilst  stewing,  cut 
a  large  cabbage  in  slices,  wash  clean,  then  blanch  and  squeeze 
it :  put  into  a  stewpan  with  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  an 


92  MADE  DISHES. 

onion  stuck  with  four  cloves,  half  a  gill  of  vinegar,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  coriander  seeds  pounded  and  sifted,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  white  pepper  and  salt:  set  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire 
till  the  cabbage  is  nearly  done  ;  then  add  a  pint  of  veal  stock 
(see  Sauces),  and  a  little  flour;  stew  the  cabbage  till  tender, 
without  burning  it:  wipe  the  beef  dry,  glaze  it ;  and  serve, 
with  the  cabbage  round  it. 

Sirloin  of  Beef  en  Epigram. 

HAVING  roasted  a  sirloin  of  beef,  take  it  off  the  spit,  and 
raise  the  skin  carefully  off.  Then  cut  out  the  lean  part  of  the 
beef,  but  observe  not  to  cut  near  the  ends  or  sides.  Hash  the 
meat  in  the  following  manner  :  cut  it  into  pieces  about  the 
size  of  a  crown-piece,  put  half  a  pint  of  stock  into  a  tossing 
pan,  an  onion  chopped  fine,  two  spoonsful  of  ketchup,  some 
pepper  and  salt,  six  small  pickled  cucumbers  cut  in  thin  slices, 
and  the  gravy  that  comes  from  the  beef,  with  a  little  butter 
rolled  in  flour.  Put  in  the  meat,  and  toss  it  up  for  five  mi- 
nutes ;  put  it  on  the  sirloin,  and  then  put  the  skin  over,  and 
send  it  to  table. 

The  Inside  of  a  Sirloin  of  Beef  forced. 

LIFT  up  the  fat  of  the  inside,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut 
off  all  the  meat  close  to  the  bone.  Chop  it  small :  take  a 
pound  of  suet,  and  chop  that  small ;  as  much  grated  bread, 
a  little  lemon  peel,  thyme,  pepper  and  salt,  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  and  two  eschalots  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  together  with 
a  glass  of  red  wine,  and  then  put  the  meat  into  the  place  you 
took  it  from  ;  cover  it  with  the  skin  and  fat,  skewer  it  down 
with  fine  skewers,  and  cover  with  paper.  The  paper  must 
not  be  taken  off  till  the  meat  is  put  on  the  dish,  and  your 
meat  must  be  spitted  before  you  take  out  the  inside.  Take  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  red  wine,  two  eschalots  shred  small,  and  a 
spoonful  of  garlic  vinegar  ;  boil  them,  and  pour  into  the  dish 
with  the  gravy  that  comes  out  of  the  meat. 

The  Inside  of  a  Rump  of  Beef  forced. 

THIS  must  be  done  nearly  in  the  same  manner  as  the  above ; 
only  lift  up  the  outside  skin,  take  the  middle  of  the  meat,  and 
proceed  as  before  directed.  Put  it  into  the  same  place,  and 
with  fine  skewers  put  it  down  close. 

A  Round  of  Beef  forced. 

FIRST  rub  it  with  some  common  salt,  a  little  bay-salt,  some 
saltpetre,  and  coarse  sugar ;  then  let  it  stand  a  full  week  or 


MADE  DISHES.  95 

more,  according  to  the  size,  turning  it  every  day.  Wash  and 
dry  it,  lard  it  a  little,  and  make  holes,  which  fill  with  grated 
bread,  marrow,  or  suet,  parsley,  grated  lemon-peel,  sweet 
herbs,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  yolk  of  an  egg,  made  into  stuf- 
fing. Bake  it  with  a  little  water,  and  some  small  beer,  some 
whole  pepper,  and  an  onion.  It  may  be  boiled,  and  is  a  hand- 
some sideboard  dish  for  a  large  company. 

Baked  Beef. 

TAKE  either  the  sticking,  clod,  leg,  or  tops  of  the  ribs 
boned  :  wash  clean,  chop  together  parsley,  thyme,  eschalots, 
marjoram,  savory,  and  basil,  of  each  a  moderate  quantity,  and 
season  with  kitchen  pepper  (see  Sauces)  :  with  these  ingre- 
dients rub  the  beef  well,  lay  it  in  an  earthen  pan,  adding  half 
a  pint  of  port  wine  (or  stale  strong  beer)  a  gill  of  vinegar, 
ten  whole  onions  peeled,  two  bay  leaves,  and  a  few  fresh 
mushrooms,  or  mushroom  powder,  let  it  remain  twenty-four 
hours  ;  then  add  water  to  cover  it,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven, 
tying  paper  over  the  pan :  when  baked,  take  up  the  meat, 
strain  the  gravy,  skim  off'  the  fat,  and  serve  in  a  tureen  with 
the  beef. 

Beef  steaks  rolled. 

TAKE  what  quantity  you  want  of  beef  steaks,  and  beat  them 
with  a  cleaver  to  make  them  tender ;  make  some  forcemeat 
with  a  pound  of  veal  beat  fine  in  a  mortar,  the  flesh  of  a  fowl, 
half  a  pound  of  cold  ham  or  gammon  of  bacon,  fat  and  lean  ; 
the  kidney  fat  of  a  loin  of  veal,  and  a  sweetbread,  all  cut 
very  fine :  some  truffles  and  morels  stewed,  and  then  cut 
small,  two  eschalots,  some  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  some  lemon- 
peel,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  half  a 
pint  of  cream .  Mix  all  these  together,  and  stir  them  over  a  slow 
fire  ten  minutes.  Put  them  upon  the  steaks,  and  roll  them  up; 
then  skewer  them  tight,  put  them  into  the  frying-pan,  and  fry 
them  of  a  nice  brown.  Then  take  them  from  the  fat,  and  put 
them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  pint  of  good  stock,  a  spoonful  of 
red  wine,  two  of  ketchup,  a  few  pickled  mushrooms,  and  let 
them  stew  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Bosuf  a  la  Vinegrette. 

FROM  the  round  of  beef  cut  a  slice  of  three  inches  thick, 
with  very  little  fat.  Stew  it  in  water  and  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  cloves,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
and  a  bay  leaf.  Let  it  simmer  till  the  liquor  is  almost  con- 
sumed ;  and  when  cold,  serve  it  up.  What  liquor  remains, 
strain  off,  and  mix  with  a  little  vinegar. 


MADK  DISH  I  . 


Ox  Cheek. 

BONE  and  clean  wash  the  cheek  ;  tie  it  up  like  a  rump  of 
beef,  put  it  in  a  stewingpan  with  some  stock  (see.  Sauces)  ; 
skim  it  when  it  boils,  adding  two  bay  leaves,  a  little  garlic, 
some  onions,  mushrooms  or  mushroom  powder,  celery,  car- 
rots, half  a  cabbage  ;  turnips,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  whole 
pepper,  mace,  and  allspice:  in  this  let  the  cheek  stew  till 
nearly  done,  and  having  cut  the  string,  put  the  cheek  in  a 
clean  stevvpan;  in  the  meantime  strain  the  gravy,  skim  clean, 
season  with  lemon  juice,  cayenne,  and  salt :  add  two  spoons- 
ful of  browning,  clear  the  whole  with  eggs,  and  when  cleared, 
strain  through  a  tamis  over  the  cheek  in  the  clean  stewpan, 
and  stew  till  tender. 

Beef  Tails. 

HAVING  cut  them  into  joints,  blanch  and  wash  them :  put 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  stock,  and 
braise  till  tender:  drain  them,  and  serve  with  haricot  sauce 
over  them. — See  Sauces. 

Beef  Escarlot. 

TAKE  a  brisket  of  beef,  half  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  tw» 
ounces  of  bay  salt,  and  a  pound  of  common  salt.  Mix  all  to- 
gether, rub  the  beef  with  it,  lay  it  in  an  earthen  pan,  and  turn 
it  every  day.  It  may  lie  a  fortnight  in  this  pickle :  then  serve 
it  up  with  savoys  or  pease  pudding,  but -it  eats  much  better 
when  cold  and  cut  into  slices. 

Beef  Palates. 

BLANCH,  peel,  and  broil  the  palates;  trim  them  into  the 
shape  of  cutlets ;  braize  with  a  pint  of  veal  stock  till  nearly- 
all  is  reduced  :  serve  with  allemand  sauce. — See  Sauces, 

Beef  Palates  baked  (brown). 

HAVING  blanched,  peeled,  and  boiled  the  palates,  line  a  tin 
mould  with  a  veal  caul ;  lay  a  palate  upon  it,  and  over  it  some 
light  forcemeat  containing  green  truffles  pounded  :  fill  the 
mould  with  alternate  layers  of  caul,  palates,  and  forcemeat : 
add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sto~k,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  :  take  out  the  palates,  &c.  and  put  aside  the  cauls ;  lay 
the  palates  in  the  dish  with  the  forcemeat  over  each :  strain  the 
gravy,  skim  off  the  fat,  add  two  spoonsful  of  port  wine,  one  of 
browning,  and  four  pf  Spanish  sauce  (see  Sauces)  •  boil  all 
together,  and  pour  it  over  the  palates. 


MADE  DISHES. 


.     Beef  Palates  baked  (white) . 

WHEN  the  palates  come  out  of  the  oven,  strain  the  gravy 
and  skim  off  the  fat,  adding  a  leasori  (see  Sauces)  of  two  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  two  spoonsful  of  benshamelle. 

Tripe  a  la  Kilkenny. 

THIS  dish  is  very  much  admired  in  Ireland,  and  is  thus  pre- 
pared: take  a  piece  of  double  tripe  cut  in  square  pieces,  and 
two  cow-heels  also  cut  in  pieces.  Peel  and  wash  ten  large 
onions,  cut  them  in  two,  and  boil  in  water  till  tender.  Then 
put  in  your  tripe  and  cow-heels,  and  boil  it  ten  minutes.  Pour 
off  almost  all  your  liquor,  shake  a  little  flour  into  it,  and  put 
in  some  butter,  with  a  little  salt  and  mustard.  Shake  all  over 
the  tire  till  the  butter  is  melted,  then  put  it  into  your  dish,  and 
send  it  to  table  as  hot  as  possible. 

Tongue  roasted. 

LET  the  tongue,  if  a  dried  one,  be  soaked  in  water  for  at 
least  four  days,  changing  the  water  daily  :  if  a  green  tongue 
fresh  out  of  pickle,  twenty-four  hours  will  be  sufficient :  in 
either  of  these  cases,  the  tongue  must  be  simmered  in  water 
till  tender,  and  the  skin  can  be  easily  taken  off:  if  a  fresh 
tongue  is  used,  blanch  it  till  the  skin  can  be  easily  taken  off: 
scrape,  trim  neatly,  and  wash  clean  :  make  several  incisions 
with  a  sharp  knife,  and  fill  with  a  savory  forcemeat  (see 
Sauces)  :  cover  with  a  veal  caul,  and  tie  on  a  spit:  when  do.ie, 
take  off  the  caul,  wipe  dry  ;  glaze,  and  serve  with  stewed 
spinage  under  it. — See  Stewing. 

Cold  roasted  Tongue  and  Barberries. 

PUT  into  a  stewpan  half  a  pint  of  sauce  tournay  (see  Sauces ), 
and  two  spoonsful  of  preserved  barberries :  when  these  have 
boiled  up,  add  slices  of  cold  roasted  tongue,  letting  them  re- 
main in  the  sauce  till  thoroughly  warm ;  and  serve  with  the 
barberries  in  the  middle  of  the  dish. 

Hodge  Podge. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  pickled  pork,  half  a  pound  of  brisket 
of  beef,  each  cut  into  two  pieces,  and  four  beef  tails  cut  into 
joints*  having  put  them  into  a  pot  and  covered  them  with 
water,  boil :  then  skim  clean,  and  add  two  ounces  of  dried 
mushrooms,  turnips,  carrots,  onions,  Igeks,  celery,  all  cut 
small,  and  kitchen  pepper  (see  Sauces)  :  when  the  liquor  is 
nearly  consumed,  add  two  quarts  of  veal  stock,  and  stew  the 


96  MADE  DISHES. 

meat  till  tender,  when  it  is  to  be  taken  up,  and  the  gravy 
strained  from  the  vegetables  and  skimmed  :  add  browning  two 
spoonsful,  and  cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon-juice  to  the  palate  : 
in  the  meantime,  cut  turnips  and  carrots  into  shapes,  and 
celery  into  lengths  about  two  inches  ;  sweat  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  till  quite  tender,  and  strain  their  liquor  to  the  gravy  ob- 
tained from  the  meat :  now  put  in  the  meat,  simmer  till 
thoroughly  hot,  add  the  vegetables  which  have  been  sweated, 
and  serve. 

Porcupine  of  a  Breast  of  Veal. 

TAKE  the  finest  and  largest  breast  of  veal  you  can  procure, 
bone,  and  rub  it  over  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Spread  on 
a  table,  and  lay  over  it  a  little  bacon  cutas  thin  as  possible,  a 
handful  of  parsley  shred  fine,  the  yolks  of  five  hard-boiled 
eggs  chopped  small,  a  little  lemon  peel  cut  fine,  grated  bread 
steeped  in  cream,  and  season  to  your  taste  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  nutmeg.  Roll  the  breast  close,  and  skewer  it  up.  Then 
cut  fat  bacon,  and  the  lean  of  ham  that  has  been  a  little 
boiled  (if  you  use  the  ham  raw,  it  will  turn  the  veal  red),  and 
pickled  cucumbers,  about  two  inches  long,  to  answer  the 
other  lardings.  Lard  it  in  rows,  first  ham,  then  bacon,  and 
then  cucumbers,  till  you  have  larded  every  part  of  the  veal. 
Put  it  in  a  deep  earthen  pot,  with  a  pint  of  water,  and  cover 
it,  and  set  it  in  a  slow  oven  for  two  hours.  As  soon  as  it 
comes  from  the  oven,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  strain  the  gravy 
through  a  sieve  into  astewpan.  Put  in  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
a  little  lemon  pickle  and  caper  liquor,  and  a  spoonful  of 
mushroom  ketchup.  Thicken  it  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  lay  your  porcupine  on  the  dish,  and  pour  it  hot  upon 
it ;  and  serve  with  forcemeat  balls  round  it. 

Shoulder  of  Veal  a  la  Haut-gout. 

CUT  off  the  knuckle  and  flaps  of  a  shoulder  of  veal ;  raise 
the  skin,  leaving  it  fast  at  the  knuckle,  and  lard  all  over  with 
fat  and  lean  bacon,  seasoning  with  white  pepper  and  salt: 
rub  the  larding  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  sprinkle  it  wkh 
grated  bread,  parsley,  pickled  mushrooms,  a  little  lemon  peel, 
and  green  truffles,  all  shred  very  fine :  skewer  the  skin  over 
these,  and  put  the  veal  in  a  stewpan  with  fresh  butter:  stew  till 
of  a  light  brown,  frequently  turning  the  meat ;  then  add  a  quart 
of  weak  stock  (see  Sauces) ,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  the  same  of 
garlic  vinegar,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine :  stew  till  sufficiently 
tender;  take  up  the  veal,  strain  and  skim  the  gravy,  to  which 
add  forcemeat  balls,  fresh  mushrooms,  truffles,  and  morels : 
give  these  a  boil,  put  in  the  veal  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
serve,  having  previously  removed  the  skin. 


MADE  DISHES. 


Veal  a  la  Bourgeoise. 

HAV  ING  cut  veal  into  thick  slices,  lard  them  with  bacon, 
and  season  their,  \\itb  kitchen  pepper  (sec  Sauces)  and  chop- 
ped  parsley.  Cover  the  bottom  of  your  stewpan  with  slices 
of  fat  bacon,  lay  the  veal  upon  them,  cover  the  pan;  and  set  it 
over  the  tire  for  eight  or  ten  minutes,  just  to  be  hot,  and  no 
more.  Then,  with  a  brisk  fire,  brown  your  veal  on  both 
sides,  and  shake  some  flour  over  it :  add  a  quart  of  veal 
stock,  cover  close,  and  stew  gently  till  enough.  Then  take 
out  the  slices  of  bacon,  and  skim  ail  the  fat  oft'  clean,  and 
add  a  leason  of  eggs  and  a  spoonful  of  benshamelle  to  the 
gravy.  Mix  all  together,  and  stir  one  way  till  it  is  smooth 
and  thick,  and  serve^with  the  sai'ice  over  the  meat. 

Roasted  Loin  of  Veal  a  la  Benshamelle. 

TAKE  a  cold  roasted  loin  of  veal,  or  a  part  of  one  that  has 
been  already  served  at  table;  and  having  poured  a  little 
melted  butter  over  it,  paper,  and  put  it  into  an  oven  till 
warm  through  :  take  it  out ;  and  having  cut  out  the  underside 
or  fillet,  mince  the  same,  adding  Benshamelle  (see  SaucesJ, 
a  little  garlic  vinegar,  white  pepper,  lemon,  salt,  and  a  smaJl 
lump  of  sugar :  simmer  in  a  small  stewpan  ;  take  up  the 
mince,  and  put  it  into  the  place  from  whence  you  cut  it; 
sprinkle  over  it  a  little  grated  bread,  and  pour  over  it  some 
clarified  butter:  put  the  veal,  with  the  mince  upwards,  into 
an  oven  to  brown ;  and  serve  with  benshamelle  sauce  under 
it.  A  cold  neck  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 

Neck  of  Veal  larded. 

TKIM  the  veal  neatly,  taking  off  the  under  part  of  the  bone, 
and  leaving  only  a  part  of  the  long  bones:  lard  with  fat  ba- 
con, cover  with  a  veal  caul,  and  roast  gently  till  nearly  done  : 
take  off  the  caul,  roast  till  sufficiently  done,  wipe  dry,  glaize 
the  upper  side,  and  serve  with  sorrel  sauce  under  it. 

Neck  of  Veal  a  VEspagnol. 

HAVING  trimmed  the  neck  as  for  larding,  set  it  on  with 
water  to  blanch  :  take  it  out  of  the  water,  and  put  it  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  white  braise  (see  Sauces) ;  let  it  simmer  till 
sufficiently  done  ;  take  it  out  of  the  braise,  to  which  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  Spanish  sauce :  let  the  braise  with  this 
addition  boil  a  few  minutes  ;  and  serve  with  the  sauce  over  jt, 
and  Spanish  onions  boiled  round  the  veal. 

H 


98  MADE  DISHES. 

Neck  of  Veal  braised  with  Oyster  Sauce. 

PROCEED  in  the  manner  already  directed  for  the  same  joint 
a  TEspagnol :  but  instead  of  serving  it  with  the  braise  and 
benshamelle,  serve  a  part  of  the  braise  mixed  with  oyster 
sauce  (see  Sauces)  poured  over  the  veal. 

Breast  of  Veal  a  la  Flammand. 

HAVING  covered  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  with  a  sheet  of 
fat  bacon,  put  in  the  veal,  covering  it  with  slips  of  bacon ; 
add  a  pint  of  stock  (see  Sauces),  half  a  pint  of  white  wine, 
white  pepper  and  salt:  stew  till  quite  tender,  take  up  the 
meat,  lay  aside  the  bacon,  strain  and  skim  the  gravy,  and  add 
mushrooms,  a  spoonful  of  eschalot  vinegar,  a  small  lump  of 
sugar,  and  a  little  lemon-juice;  give  the  same  a  boil,  and 
serve  with  the  veal. 

Breast  of  Veal  a  VEcossois. 

HAVING  boned  the  veal,  lay  over  it  a  light  forcemeat  (see 
Sauces),  and  over  that  layers  of  minced  ham,  pickled  cucum- 
bers, fat  bacon,  and  an  omlet  of  eggs :  roll  tight  in  a  cloth, 
tying  the  ends,  and  braise  in  a  brown-braise  till  tender:  take 
up  the  meat,  wipe  dry,  and  glaize  it ;  serving  with  stewed 
celery  and  benshamelle. — See  Sauces. 

Breast  of  Veal  a  Vltalienne. 

BRAISE  in  a  brown-braise  (see  Sauces),  into  which  cut  a 
pound  of  truffles :  let  the  truffles  stew  with  the  veal  for  half 
an  hour;  take  them  up  and  put  into  a  separate  stewpan,  with 
half  a  pint  of  good  coulis,  two  spoonsful  of  garlic  vinegar,  a 
glass  of  port  wine,  a  little  lemon-juice,  ketchup,  and  brown- 
ing, of  each  one  spoonful ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  : 
when  the  meat  is  sufficiently  braised,  take  it  up  and  put  it 
into  the  stewpan  with  the  truffles  and  sauce  ;  give  the  whole 
a  simmer,  and  serve  with  the  truffles  over,  and  the  sauce 
round. 

Breast  of  Veal  a  TAnglois. 

BONE  the  meat,  and  having  nicely  trimmed  it,  lard  with  fat 
bacon  :  put  into  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  of  good  veal  stock 
(see  Sauces),  a  few  fresh  mushrooms,  or  mushroom  powder, 
an  onion  and  carrot  minced  very  small,  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  a  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  cayenne  and 
salt :  let  the  meat  stew  till  tender  ;  take  it  up,  wipe  dry,  and 
glaize :  to  the  gravy  in  the  stewpan  add  blanched  morels, 
truffles,  slices  of  sweetbread,  egg  balls  (see  Sauces),  arti- 


.    MADE  DISHES.  99 

choke  bottoms,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  the  same  of  brown- 
ing, season  with  cayenne  and  salt :  let  these  boil  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  serve  with  the  veal  in  the  middle,  and  the  sauce 
poured  over  it. 

Veal  Olives. 

TAKE  a  fillet  of  veal,  and  having  cut  off  large  collops,  flat- 
ten them  well  with  a  beater :  spread  very  thinly  forcemeat 
over  each  of  them,  and  roll  them  up,  and  roast  them,  or  bake 
them  in  an  oven.  Make  a  ragoo  of  oysters  and  sweetbreads, 
cut  in  square  bits  a  few  mushrooms  and  morels,  and  lay  them 
in  the  dish  with  the  veal.  If  you  have  oysters  enough,  chop 
and  mix  some  of  them  with  the  forcemeat,  as  it  will  add  much 
to  its  goodness.  Put  nice  brown  gravy  into  the  dish,  and 
send  them  up  hot,  with  forcemeat  balls  round  them. 

Fillet  of  Veal  with  Collops. 

TAKE  a  small  fillet  of  veal  and  cut  what  collops  you  want : 
then  take  the  udder,  and  fill  it  with  forcemeat ;  roll  it  round, 
tie  it  with  a  packthread  across,  and  roast  it.  Lay  your  col- 
lops in  the  dish,  and  lay  your  udder  in  the  middle.  Garnish 
with  lemon. 

Bombarded  Veal. 

HAVING  nicely  (aken  out  the  bone  from  a  fillet  of  veal, 
make  a  forcemeat  in  the  following  manner:  Take  grated 
bread,  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon  minced,  an  anchovy  boned, 
two  or  three  sprigs  of  sweet  marjoram,  a  little  lemon-peel, 
thyme,  and  parsley :  chop  these  well  together,  and  season  to 
your  taste  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  a  little  nutmeg  grated  :  mix 
all  together  with  an  egg  and  a  little  cream,  and  with  this  force- 
meat fill  up  the  place  from  whence  the  bone  was  taken.  Then 
make  cuts  all  round  the  fillet,  at  about  an  inch  distant  from 
each  other :  fill  one  with  forcemeat ;  a  second  with  spinach 
that  has  been  well  boiled  and  squeezed ;  a  third  with  crumbs 
of  bread,  chopped  oysters,  and  beef  marrow ;  a  fourth  with 
the  forcemeat,  and  thus  fill  up  the  holes  round  the  fillet. 
Wrap  a  caul  close  round  it,  and  put  it  in  a  deep  pot,  with  a 
pint  of  water.  Make  a  coarse  paste  to  lay  over  it,  in  order 
to  prevent  the  oven  giving  it  a  disagreeable  taste.  As  soon  as 
it  is  taken  out  of  the  oven,  skim  off'  the  fat,  and  put  the  gravy 
into  a  stewpan,  with  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  another 
of  lemon-pickle,  five  boiled  artichoke  bottoms  cut  in  quar- 
ters, two  spoonfuls  of  browning,  and  half  an  ounce  of  mo- 
rels and  truffles  -.  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  give  it  a  gentle 
boil,  and  serve  with  your  sauce  over  the  veal. 

H  2 


100  MADE  DISHES. 

Shoulder  of  Veal  a  la  Piedmontoue. 

CUT  the  skin  off  a  shoulder  of  veal  so  that  it  may  hung  at 
one  end,  then  lard  the  meat  with  bacon  and  ham,  and  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  mace,  sweet  herbs,  parsley  and  lemon- 
peel :  cover 'it  again  with  the  skin,  stew  it  with  stock,  and, 
when  tender  enough,  take  it  up.  Then  take  sorrel,  some  let- 
tuce capped  small,  and  stew  them  in  some  butter  with  par- 
sley, onions,  and  mushrooms.  The  herbs  being  tender,  JMU 
to  them  some  of  the  liquor,  some  sweetbreads,  and  some  bits 
of  ham.  Let  all  stew  together  a  little,while ;  then  lift  up  the 
skin,  lay  the  stewed  herbs  over  and  under,  cover  it  again  with 
the  skin,  wet  it  with  melted  butter,  strew  it  over  with  crumbs 
of  bread,  and  send  it  to  the  oven  to  brown.  Serve  it  up  hot, 
with  some  good  gravy  in  the  dish.  The  French,  before  it 
goes  to  the  oven,  strew  it  over  with  parmesan. 

Sweetbreads  of  Veal  a  la  Dauphine. 

LARD  the  largest  sweetbreads  you  can  get,  and  open  them 
in  such  a  manner  that  you  can  stuff  in  forcemeat  (see 
Sauces)  :  fill  your  sweetbreads,  and  fasten  them  with  fine 
wooden  skewers.  Take  the  stewpan,  lay  layers  of  bacon  at 
the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  mace, 
cloves,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  large  onion  sliced.  Upon  that  lay 
thin  slices  of  veal,  and  then  lay  on  your  sweetbreads :  cover 
close,  let  it  stand  eight  or  ten  minutes  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
then  pour  in  a  quart  of  boiling  weak  stock.  Cover  close,  and 
stew  two  hours  very  softly :  take  out  the  sweetbreads,  Jay 
aside  the  bacon  and  veal,  keep  them  hot,  strain  the  gravy, 
skirn  all  the  fat  off,  and  boil  till  it  is  reduced  to  about  half  a 
pint :  put  in  the  sweetbreads/and  give  them,  two  or  three  mi- 
nutes stew  in  the  gravy  ;  then  lay  them  in  the  dish,  and  pour 
the  gravy  over  them. 

Sweetbreads  en  Gordiniere. 

PARBOIL  three  sweetbreads  ;  take  a  stewpan,  and  lay  layers 
of  bacon,  or  ham  and  veal ;  over  that  lay  the  sweetbreads,  with 
the  upper  side  downwards.  Put  a  layer  of  veal  and  bacon  over 
them,  a  pint  of  veal  stock,  and  three  or  four  blades  of  mace : 
stew  gently  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  then  take  out  the 
sweetbreads,  strain  the  gravy  through  a  tamis,  and  skina 
off  the  fat :  to  this  add  a  leason  of  eggs  (see  Sauces),  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  sauce  a  la  reine. 

Sweetbreads  larded. 

LARD  the  sweetbreads  with  fat  bacon  :  and,  haying  cover- 
^d  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  with  bacon,  lay  them  upon  it, 


MADE  DISHES.  101 

adding  a  sufficient  quantity  of  veal  stock  (see  Sauces)  ;  cover 
with  bacon,  and  paper  over  that :  let  them  stew  till  tender; 
take  them  up,  laying  aside  the  bacon  ;  glaize  them,  and  hav- 
ing strained  the  gravy  in  which  the  sweetbreads  were  stewed, 
carefully  skim  olf  the  fat,  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
benshamelle  :  put  in  the  sweetbreads,  and  when  hot,  serve 
with  the  sauce  over  them. 

Sweetbreads  boiled. 

HAVING  blanched  two  fine  sweetbreads,  wash  and  trim  off 
the  pipe,  and  boil  in  milk  and  water  for  half  an  hour :  take 
them  up,  drain  dry,  and  serve  with  a  leason  of  eggs,  adding 
two  spoonfuls  of  sauce  a  la  reine. — See  Sauces. 

Sweetbreads  broiled. 

PROCKED  with  the  sweetbreads  as  above  directed,  but  only 
boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour:  drain  dry,  cut  into  large  slices, 
seasoning  with  cayenne  and  salt :  broil  till  of  a  nice  brown, 
and  serve  with  haricot  sauce. — See  Sauces. 

Sweetbreads  fried. 

BLANCH  three  fine  sweetbreads  ;  drain  and  cut  them  into 
slices ;  dip  them  into  the  following  batter ;  four  ounces  of 
flour,  three  eggs,  a  gill  of  table  beer,  salt  and  white  pepper, 
well  beaten  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  ten  minutes:  fry  of  a 
nice  brown,  and  serve  with  a  good  cullis  under,  and  fried  parsley 
round  them. 

Sweetbreads  en  Erisori. 

ON  three  sweetbreads  lay  a  little  light  forcemeat,  and  hav- 
ing brushed  them  pver  with  whites  of  eggs,  work  a  sprig  with 
strips  of  pickled  cucumber,  ham,  breast  of  fowl,  omlets, 
boiled  carrot,  and  capers:  put  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little 
stock  (see  Sauces),  and  stew  gently  till  sufficiently  done,  taking 
care  not  to  disturb  the  ornament:  glaize  the  plain  part;  and 
serve  with  a  cullis  under  them. 

A  Caffs  Appurtenances. 

BOIL  the  lights  and  part  of  the  liver;  roast  the  heart  stuffed 
with  suet,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  little  parsley,  all  chopped  small, 
a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  some  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a 
little  lemon-peel ;  mix  up  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  When  the 
lights  and  liver  are  boiled,  chop  them  very  small,  and  ^)ut 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
some  pepper  and  salt,  with  a  little  lemon  or  vinegar  if  agree- 
ible.  Fry  the  other  part  of  the  liver  as  before  mentioned, 


102  MADE  DISHES. 

with  some  little  slices  of  bacon.  Lay  the  mince  at  the  bot- 
tom, the  heart  in  the  middle,  and  the  fried  liver  and  bacon 
round,  with  some  crisped  parsley. 

A  Midcalf. 

STUFF  a  calf's  heart  with  forcemeat,  and  send  it  to  the  oven 
in  an  earthen  dish,  with  a  little  water  under  it.  Lay  butter 
over  it,  and  dredge  it  with  flour.  Boil  half  the  liver,  and  all 
the  lights  for  half  an  hour;  then  chop  them  small,  and  put 
,  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  stock,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup, 
and  one  of  lemon-pickle.  Squeeze  in  a  half  a  lemon,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  thicken  with  a  good  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour.  When  you  serve  up,  place  the  mincemeat  in 
the  bottom,  and  have  the  other  half  of  the  liver  ready  fried 
of  a  fine  brown,  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  little  pieces  of 
bacon.  Set  the  heart  in  the  middle,  and  lay  the  liver  and 
bacon  over  the  minced  meat. 

Calf's  Heart  roasted. 

HAVING  made  a  forcemeat  of  grated  bread,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  small,  a  little  parsley,  sweet 
marjoram  and  lemon  peel,  mixed  up  with  a  little  white  pep- 
per, salt,  nutmeg,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  fill  the  heart  with 
it,  and  lay  a  veal  caul  over  the  stuffing,  or  a  sheet  of  writing 
paper  to  keep  it  in  its  place.  Lay  it  in  a  Dutch  oven,  and 
keep  it  turning  till  it  is  thoroughly  roasted.  Serve  with  a  good 
cullis  under  it. 

Calfs  Liver  roasted. 

CUT  a  slit  in  the  under  part  of  the  liver,  and  fill  it  with  the 
following  stuffing:  grated  bread,  marrow,  nutmeg,  parsley 
and  thyme  shred  fine,  two  mushrooms  and  one  eschalot  chop- 
ped small,  mix  with  one  egg:  sew  it  up,  lard  the  top  with 
slips  of  fat  bacon,  cover  with  a  veal  caul,  and  roast  gently  : 
when  enough,  lay  aside  the  caul,  glaize  the  top,  and  serve 
with  good  cullis  under  it  (see  Sauces},  and  fried  parsley 
round  H. 

£alfs  fflad  surprised. 

TAKE  the  hair  off  a  large  calf's  head,  then  raise  off  the 
skin  with  a  sharp  pointed  knife,  and  as  much  of  the  meat  from 
the  bone  as  you  can  possibly  get,  so  that  it  may  appear  like 
a  whole  head  when  stuffed;  but  be  careful  not  to  cut  holes  in 
the  skin.  Then  fill  with  forcemeat  (see  Sauces •),  and  put  a 
a  little  of  it  into  the  ears,  then  lay  it  in  a  deep  pot,  just  wide 
enough  to  take  it  in,  and -put  to  it  two  quarts  of  water,  half  a 


MADE  DISHES,  103 

pint  of  white  wine,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  an  anchovy,  two  spoonsful  of  walnut  and  mush- 
room ketchup,  the  same  quantity  of  lemon-pickle,  and  a 
little  salt  and  cayenne.  Lay  a  coarse  paste  over  it  to  keep  in 
the  steam,  and  put  it  for  two  hours  and  a  half  in  a  very  quick 
oven.  When  you  take  it  out?  lay  the  head  in  a  soup-dish, 
skirn  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  strain  it  through  a  tamis 
into  a  stewpan  :  thicken  with  a  lump  of  butter  rolled -m^flour, 
and  when  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  put  in  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  cream.  Have 
ready  boiled  a  few  forcemeat  balls,  half  an  ounce  of  truffles 
and  morels;  but  do  not  stew  them  in  the  gravy.  Pour  the 
gravy  over  the  head,  and  serve. 

Breast  of  Veal  in  Hodge-Podge. 

CUT  the  brisket  of  a  breast  of  veal  into  little  pieces,  and 
every  bone  asunder.  Then  flour  it,  and  put  half  a  pound  of 
good  butter  into  a  stewpan.  When  hot,  throw  in  the  veal, fry 
it  all  over  of  a  fine  light  brown,  and  having  ready  boiling  wa- 
ter, fill  up  the  stewpan,  and  stir  it  round.  Throw  in  a  pint  of 
green  peas,  a  fine  whole  lettuce  clean  washed,  two  or  three 
blades  of  mace,  a  little  whole  pepper  tied  in  a  muslin  rag,  a 
small  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  small  onion-stuck  with  a  few 
cloves,  and  a  little  salt :  cover  close,  and  let  it  stew  an  hour, 
or  till  boiled  to  your  palate,  if  you  would  have  soup  made  of 
it;  but  if  you  would  only  have  sauce  to  eat  to  the  veal,  you 
must  stew  till  there  is  just  as  much  as  you  would  have  for 
sauce,  and  season  with  salt  to  your  palate.  Take  out  the 
onion,  sweet  herbs  and  spice,  and  pour  it  all  together  into 
your  dish.  If  you  have  no  peas,  pare  three  or  four  cucum- 
bers, scoop  out  the  pulp,  and  cut  them  into  little  pieces ; 
and  take  four  or  five  heads  of  celery  clean  washed,  and  cut 
the  white  part  small.  When  you  have  no  lettuces,  take  the 
little  hearts  of  savoys,  or  the  little  young  sprouts  that  grow 
on  the  old  cabbage  stalks.  If  you  would  make  a  very  fine 
dish  of  it,  fill  the  inside  of  your  lettuce  with  forcemeat,  and 
tie  the  top  close  with  a  thread.  Stew  it  till  there  is  just 
enough  for  sauce.  Set  the  lettuce  in  the  middle,  and  the 
veal  round,  and  pour  the  sauce  all  round  it. 

Disguised  Leg  of  Veal  and  Bacon. 

HAVING  larded  your  veal  all  over  with  slips  of  bacon,  and 
a  little  lemon-peel,  boil  it  Avith  a  piece  of  bacon.  When 
enough,  take  it  up,  cut  the  bacon  into  slices,  and  have  ready 
some  dried  sage  and  pepper  rubbed  .fine.  Rub  it  over  the 


101  MADE  D.1SHES. 

» 

bacon,  lay  the  veal  in  the  dish,  and  the  bacon  round  it ;  strew 
it  all  over  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  with  sorrel  sauce. 

Loin  of  Veal  en  Epigram. 

HAVING  roasted  a  fine  loin  of  veal,  take  it  up,  and  care- 
fully take  the  skin  off  the  back  part  without  breaking  it.  Cut 
out  all  the  lean  meat;  but  leave  the  ends  whole,  to  hold  the 
following  mincemeat:  mince  all  the  meat  very  fine  with  the 
kidney  part,  put  it  into  a  little  veal  stock,  enough  to  moisten 
it  with  the  gravy  that  comes  from  the  loin.  Put  in  a  little 
white  pepper  and  salt,  some  lemon-peel  shred  fine,  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  and  a  spoonful  of  benshamelle  (see  Sauces). 
Thicken  it  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Give  it  a  shake 
or  two  over  the  fire,  and  put  it  into  the  loin,  and  then  pull  the 
skin  over:  brown  it  with  a  salamander,  and  serve. 

Pillow  of  Veal. 

HAVING  half  roasted  a  neck  or  breast  of  veal,  cut  it  into 
six  pieces,  and  season  it  with  white  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 
Take  a  pound  of  rice,  put  to  it  a  quart  of  stock,  some  mace, 
and  a  little  salt.  Do  it  over  a  stove,'  or  very  slow  fire,  till  it 
is  thick  ;  but  butter  the  bottom  of  the  pan  or  dish  you  do  it 
in.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  it. 
Then  take  a  little  round  deep  dish,  butter  it,  and  lay  some 
of  the  rice  at  the  bottom.  Then  lay  the  veal  on  a  round 
heap,  and  cover  it  all  over  with"  rice.  Wash  it  over  with  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  #.  half.  Then  open 
the  top,  and  pour  in  a  pint  of  rich  good  gravy. 

Savoury  Dish  of-  Veal. 

HAVING  cut  large  collops  out  of  a  leg  of  veal,  spread  them 
abroad  on  a  dresser,  hack  them  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  and 
dip  them  into  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Season  with  salt,  mace, 
nutmeg,  and  pepper,  beaten  fine.  Make  forcemeat  with 
some  of  your  veal,  beef  suet,  oysters  chopped,  sweet  herbs 
shred  fine,  and  kitchen  pepper :  strew  all  these  over  your 
collops,  roll  and  tie  them  up,  put  them  on  skewers,  tie  them 
to  a  spit,  and  roast  them.  To  the  rest  of  your  forcemeat  add 
a  raw  egg  or  two,  and  roll  them  in  balls  and  fry  them.  Put 
them  into  your  dish,  with  your  meat  when  roasted,  and  make 
the  sauce  with  strong  stock,  an  anchovy,  an  eschalot,  a  little 
white  wine,  and  some  spice.  Let  it  stew,  and  thicken  it  with 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Pour  the  sauce  into  the 
dish,  lay  the  meat  in,  and  serve. 


MADE  D-ISHE.&.  1O3 

70  make  Slove  Veal. 

CUT  out  the  middle  bone  from  a  fillet  of  veal  of  a  cow. 
calf,  so  that  the  meat  may  lie  flat  in  the  stewpan.  Cut  off  the 
udder,  ami  slice  it  in  long  pieces,  and  roll  it  in  seasoning  of 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  sweet  herbs,  finely  shred.  Make 
holes  in  the  fillet,  and  stick  in  these  seasoned  pieces  as  thick 
as  you  can,  until  the  whole-is  stuffed  in.  Then  lay  butter  in 
the  pan,  and  put  in  the  meat,  set  it  on  a  gentle  fire,  turning 
•and  shaking  it :  skim  the  fat  off,  and  put  in  an  onion  stuck 
with  cloves,  a  lemon  pared  and  cut  in  half,  and  squeeze  in 
the  juice.  Continue  to  shake  it,  and  let  it  simmer  five  hours. 
One  hour  before  it  is  done,  put  in  a  pint  of  strong  stock. 
When  the  meat  is  just  done  enough,  set  on  a  pint  of  mush-,, 
rooins,  with  a  little  of  the  gravy,  and  let  the  meat  be  again 
skimmed  clean  from  the  fat,  and  thicken  it  with  flour  and 
butter,  and  serve  in  the  dish  with  the  meat. 

To  dress  the  Umbles  of  Deer. 

TAKE  the  kidney  of  a  deer,  with  the  fat  of  the  heart ;  sea- 
son them  with  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  First  fry  them, 
and  then  stew  them  in  some  good  stock  till  they  are  tender. 
Squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  ;  take  the  skirts,  and  stuff  them  with 
a  forced  meat  made  with  the  fat  of  the  venison,  some  fat  of 
bacon,  grated  bread,  pepper,  mace,  sage,  and  onion  chop- 
ped very  small :  mix  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  When  the 
skirts  are  stuffed  with  this  forced  meat,  tie  them  to  the  spit  to 
roast ;  but  first  lard  them  with  thyme  and  lemon-peel.  When 
they  are  done,  lay  the  skirts  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and 
the  fricasee  round  it. 

Haricot  of  a  Neck  of  Mutton,  or  Mutton  Cutlets. 

HAVING  cut  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton  into  chops,  or 
a  loin  with  the  fat  cut  off,  flatten  and  fry  them  of  a  light 
brown.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  little  weak  stock,  to 
prevent  their  burning,  and  simmer  till  tender:  serve  with 
haricot  sauce  over  them. — See  Sauces. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  surprised. 

PUT  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  having  first  half  boiled  it,  into  a 
stewpan,  with  two  quarts  of  veal  stock,  four  ounces  of  rice, 
a  little  beaten  mace,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  mushroom  powder: 
stew  it  an  hour,  or  till  the  rice  is  enough,  and  then  take  up 
your  mutton,  and  keep  it  hot.  Put  to  the  rice  half  a  pint  of 


106  MADE  DISHES, 

cream,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  shake  it  well, 
and  boil  it  a  lew  minutes.  Lay  your  mutton  on  the  dish,  and 
pour  your  gravy  over  it. 

A  Basque  of  Mutton. 

LAV  the  caul  of  a  leg  of  veal  in  an  earthen  pan,  of  the 
size  of  a.  small  punch-bowl,  and  take  the  lean  of  a  leg  of 
mutton  that  has  been  kept  a  week.  Having  chopped  it  ex- 
ceedingly small,  take  half  of  its  weight  in  beef  marrow,  half 
a  pound  of  grated  bread,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  grated, 
half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  two  anchovies,  and  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs.  Mix  it  as  you  \vonld  sausage  iineat,  lay  it  in  the  caul 
in  the  inside  of  the  pan,  fasten  the  caul,  bake  it  in  a  quick 
oven,  and  having  taken  off  the  caul,  serve  with  a  coulis  under 
it,  and  venison  sauce  in  a  tureen. 

Mutton  Rumps  and  Kidnies. 

BOIL  six  rumps  in  veal  stock  ;  then  lard  your  kidnies  with 
bacon,  and  set  them  before  the  fire  in  a  tin  oven.  As  soon 
as  they  are  tender,  rub  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  some  caj'enne :  fry  till  of  a  light 
brown  ;  glaize  the  kidnies,  and  serve  with  slewed  sorrel  under 
them. 

Mutton  Rumps  a  la  Braise. 

BOIL  six  mutton  rumps  for  fifteen  minutes  in  water;  then 
take  them  out,  and  cut  them  into  two,  and  put  them  into  a 
stewpan,  with  half  a  pint  of  good  stock,  a  gill  of  port  wine,  an 
onion  stuck  with  cloves,  and  a  little  salt  and  cayenne.  Cover 
close,  and  stew  them  till  they  are  tender.  Take  them  and 
the  onion  out,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  a  spoonful  of  browning,  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  :  boil  till  it  is  smooth,  but  not  too  thick  ;  put  in  your 
rumps,  give  them  a  toss  or  two,  and  serve  them  up  hot. 

Mutton  Rumps  marinated. 

CLEAN,  trim,  and  cut  the  rumps  of  an  equal  size,  laying 
them  in  a  pan,  covered  with  marinate  (see  Sauces},  for  a 
night:  put  the  whole  into  a  stewpan,  and  simmer  till  nearly 
done :  take  them  out  of  the  marinate,  let  them  cool,  and 
brush  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  sprinkling  grated 
bread  over  them:  fry  gently  in  boiling  lard  till  of  a  nice 
brown,  and  sufficiently  done ;  drain  dry,  and  serve  with  a 
good  coulis  and  two  spoonsful  of  ketchup  under  them. 


MADE  DISHES.  107 

Betf  and  Mutton  Steaks  marinated 

IN  the  same  manner  as  mutton  rumps ;  except  that  for 
beef  an  eschalot  may  be  chopped  very  fine,  and  mixed  with 
the  grated  bread :  serve  with  puree  of  potatoes. — See  Sauces. 

Pork  Steaks  marinated 
- 

IN  the  same  manner  as  mutton  rumps;  except  that  an 
onion  and  a  few  leaves  of  sage  may  be  finely  shred  and  mixed 
with  the  grated  bread:  -serve  with  sauce  piquant  under  them. 

Mutton  kebobbed. 

HAVING  cut  a  loin  of  mutton  into  four  pieces,  take  off  the 
skin,  rub  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  strew  over  them 
a  little  grated  bread,  and  parsley  shred  fine.  Spit  and  roast 
them,  basting  them  all  the  time  with  fresh  butter,  in  order  to 
make  the  froth  rise :  when  properly  done,  serve  with  sauce 
ravigot. — See  Sauces. 

Mutton  the  Turkish  Way. 

HAVING  cut  your  meat  into  thin  slices,  wash  it  in  vinegar, 
and  put  it  into  a  pot  or  saucepan  that  has  a  close  cover  to  it. 
Put  in  some  rice,  whole  pepper,  and  three  or  four  whole 
onions.  Let  all  these  stew  together,  skimming  it  frequently. 
When  enough,  take  out  the  onions,  and  season  with  salt  to 
your  palate.  Lay  the  mutton  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  rice 
and  liquor  over  it. 

Leg  of  Mutton  a  la  Haut-gout. 

TAKE  a  leg  of  mutton  that  has  hung  a  fortnight ;  stuff  every 
part  of  it  with  cloves  of  garlic,  rub  it  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  then  roast  it.  When  properly  roasted,  send  it  up,  with 
some  good  gravy  and  sweet  sauce  in  a  tureen. 

Leg  of  Mutton  roasted  with  Cockles. 

HAVING  boned  it,  fill  the  cavity  with  a  forcemeat  contain- 
ing minced  cockles  :  sew  it  up,  roast  of  a  nice  brown,  and 
serve  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  coulis,  two  spoonsful  of  the 
cockle  liquor,  a  few  stewed  mushrooms,  and  blanched  cockles, 
all  simmered  together. 

Leg  of  Mutton  roasted  with  Oysters. 

BONE  the  leg,  fill  the  cavity  with  a  forcemeat,  containing 
bearded  oysters  pounded,  and  two  eschalots  shred  very  fine: 


108  MADE  DISHES 

sew  it  up,  roast,  and  serve  with  sauce  poivrade  (see  Sauces}, 
containing  a  little  of 'the  oyster  liquor,  and  a  few  blanched 
and  bearded  oysters. 

Leg  of  Mutton  roasted  with  Lobster  or  Crab. 

BONK  the  leg,  fill  the  cavity  with  a  forcemeat,  containing 
the  meat  of  a  crab  or  lobster  shred  and  pounded,  a  little 
grated  lemon-peel,  and  nutmeg:  sew  it  up;  roast,  and  serve, 
with  lobster  or  crab  sauce  under  it. 

Mutton  Chops  in  Disguise. 

RUB  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  sprinkle  with  pep- 
per, salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  parsley.  Roll  each  chop  in 
half  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  well  buttered  in  the  inside,  and 
rolled  close  at  each  end.  Boil  some  hog's-lard  or  beef  drip- 
ping in  a  stewpan,  and  put  the  steaks  into  it.  Fry  them  of  a 
fine  brown,  drain  them  dry,  and  serve  with  sauce  royal  in  a 
tureen. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  en  Epigramme. 

TAKE  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  and  when  roasted  almost 
enough,  carefully  take  off  the  skin  about  the  thickness  of  a 
crown  piece,  and  also  the  shank  bone  at  the  end.  Then  sea- 
son both  the  skin,  blade  and  shank  bone,  with  pepper  and 
salt,  a  little  lemon-peel  cut  small,  and  a  few  sweet  herbs  and 
crumbs  of  bread.  Lay  this  on  the  gridiron,  till  of  a  fine 
brown  ;  and  in  the  meantime,  take  the  rest  of  the  meat,  and 
cut  it  like  a  hash,  about  the  bigness  of  a  shilling.  Save  the 
gravy,  and  put  it  to  it,  with  a  few  spoonsful  of  strong 

i-  !•     i  i      \r  i- 

couhs,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  hair  an  onion  cut  hne,  a  small 
bundle  of  herbs,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  some  gerkins  cut 
very  small,  a  few  mushrooms,  two  or  three  truffles  cut  small, 
two  spoonsful  of  port  wine,  and  a  little  flour  dredged  into  it. 
Let  all  these  stew  together  very  slowly  for  five  or  six  minutes, 
taking  care  that  it  do  not  boil.  Take  out  the  sweet  herbs, 
Jay  the  hash  in  the  place  from  whence  it  was  taken,  and  the 
broiled  upon  it,  so  as  to  make  it  appear  like  a  whole  shoul- 
der ;  and  serve  with  a  good  coulis  under  it. 

Leg  of  Lamb  braised. 

HAVING  boned  a  leg  of  lamb,  fill  it  with  forcemeat,  cover 
it  with  slices  of  lemon  and  sheets  of  fat  bacon,  and  braise  in  a 
white  braise  over  a  stove  or  gentle  fire  for  two  hours :  take  it 
up,  drain  it,  pouring  benshamelle  over  it. 


MADE  DISHES.  109 

Leg  of  Lamb  braised,  and  savoury  Jelly. 

FORCE  and  bruise  the  lamb  as  in  the  preceding  directions : 
take  it  up,  put  it  in  an  earthen  pan,  pouring  the  braise  over 
it :  let  it  lie  all  night  in  the  braise,  and  when  wanted,  take  it 
up,  and  serve  with  savoury  jelly  over  it.—  See  Sauces. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb  braised,  and  Sorrel  Sauce, 

MAY  he  prepared  as  directed  for  leg  of  lamb,  only  serving 
jt  on  sorrel  sauce. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb  glaized, 

MAY  be  prepared  also  as  directed  for  leg,  &c.  When  taken 
out  of  the  braise,  it  must  be  drained  dry,  wiped,  glaized, 
and  served  with  a  good  coulis  under  it. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb  en  Epigramme, 

MAY  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  already  directed 
for  mutton. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb  grilled. 

HAVING  roasted  the  shoulder  till  three  parts  done,  take  it  up, 
and  with  a  sharp  knife  score  it  in  small  diamonds,  seasoning 
with  pepper  and  salt,  or  if  intended  to  be  highly  seasoned, 
with  cayenne  ;  broil  of  a  nice  brown,  and  serve  with  a  good 
coulis  under  it,  to  which  add  two  spoonsful  of  ketchup,  a 
little  lemon  juice  and  butter,  and  place  over  thin  slices  of 
lemon. 

Hind  Quarter  of  Lamb  marinated. 

BONE  the  leg,  and  fill  with  forcemeat,  as  directed  for  leg 
of  lamb  braised  :  sew  it  up,  and  lard  the  loin  part :  lay  it  in 
the  marinate  (see  Sauces)  for  six  hours,  turning  it  frequently  : 
take  it  up,  cover  with  a  veal  caul,  and  roast  it :  glaize  the 
larding,  and  serve  with  the  marinate  boiled  down  till  nearly 
consumed,  adding  a  good  coulis. 

Neck  of  Lamb  glaized. 

HAVING  cut  off  the  scrag,  and  sawed  off  the  chine,  care- 
fully take  away  the  skin  and  part  of  the  fat :  lard  with  fat 
bacon,  cover  with  a  veal  caul,  and  roast  gently :  take  it  up, 
glaize  it,  and  serve  with  white  onion  sauce. — See  Sauces. 

'  Lamb  Cutlets,  with  Cucumber  Sauce. 
Cut  the  chine  off  a  neck  of  lamb,  cut  it  into  cutlets,  and 
trim  them  neatly  :  into  a  stewpan  put  three  ounce*  of  butter, 


1  10  MADE  DISHES. 

pepper,  salt,  chopped  eschalots,  thyme,  parsley,  and  lemon 
juice :  melt  the  butter,  and  put  in  the  cutlets  till  three  parts 
done :  take  them  up,  and  when  nearly  cool,  brush  them  over 
with  yolk  of  egg,  sprinkle  with  grated  bread,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard  :  drain  off  the  fat,  and  serve  with  cucumber  sauce 
in  the  middle  of  the  dish. — See  Sauces. 

N.  B.  Veal -and  mutton  cutlets  may  be  dressed  in  the  same 
manner. 

Lamb  Cutlets,  with  Ttndrons. 

PROCEED  as  above  with  the  cutlets ;  and  serve  with  ten- 
drons  braised  in  the  centre,  and  turnip  sauce  poured  over  the 
tendrons. — See  Sauces. 

Tendrons  are  the  gristle  bones  of  the  breast,  cut  into  slices : 
braise  these  in  a  brown  braise.— See  Sauces. 

Lamb  Cutlets,  with  mashed  Potatoes. 

PROCEED  exactly  as  already  directed  for  cucumbers,  in- 
stead of  which  place  mashed  potatoes  in  the  middle  of  the 
dish. — Sec  Potatoes  mashed ,  Chap^  Vegetables. 

Lamb  Cutlets,  with  Sauce  Robert. 

PROCEED  as  above,  and  serve  with  sauce  Robert  under  them. 
— See  Sauces. 

Lamb's  Head  and  Appurtenances. 

Having  sawed  the  head  in  halves,  take  out  the  brains,  wash 
them  in  warm  water,  wipe  them  dry,  and  having  dipped  them 
in  yolk  of  egg,  sprinkle  them  over  with  grated  bread,  when 
they  will  be  ready  for  frying  :  blanch  the  head,  liver,  heart, 
and  lights,  and  having  chopped  the  three  latter  small,  add  a 
little  parsley  and  lemon-peel  shred  very  fine,  and  a  pint  of 
seasoned  coulis;  in  which  gently  stew  them  till  tender  :  brush 
the  head  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  strewing  grated  bread  over 
it,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  tender ;  and  when  done, 
brown  it  with  a  salamander :  fry  the  brains  in  boiling  lard, 
drain  dry ;  fry  also  thin  rashers  of  bacon  ;  and  serve  with  the 
mince  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  the  head  over  it,  and  the 
brains  and  rashers  of  bacon  placed  alternately  round  it. 

Lamtfs  Head  and  Appurtenances,  with  Powrade. 

SAW  the  head  in  two,  take  out  the  tongue  whole,  and  clean 
and  prepare  the  brains  as  above  directed  :  boil  the  head  and 
tongue  till  quite  tender ;  pull  out  all  the  bones,  and  with  a 
light  forcemeat  stuff  the  meat,  and  mould  it  into  the  shape  of 
a  lamb's  head  :  brush  this  and  the  tongue  with  yolk  of  egg, 


MADE  DISUSE.  1 1 1 

strewing  over  them  grated  bread  ;  put  them  into  an  oven,  and 
when  become  firm,  brush  them  over  again  with  egg,  and 
strew  grated  bread  over  them  :  repeat  this  three  -times,  still 
preserving  the  head  of  a  proper  shape,  and  make  the  tongue 
look  large  :  cut  the  liver  and  heart  in  slices,  and  fry  them 
and  the  brains :  serve  with  poivrade  sauce  (see  Sauces)  in  the 
dish,  the  tongue  in  the  middle,  the  head  on  each  side,  and 
the  fry  round  it. 

Lamb's  Rumps  and  Ears  (brown).. 

SCALD  an  equal  number  of  each  very  clean ;  take  a  pint  of 
veal  stock,  in  which  braise  them  till  half  done  :  take  up  the 
rumps,  and  having  brushed  them  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  strew 
with  grated  bread,  and  broil  gently :  stew  the  ears  till  the  li- 
quor is  nearly  reduced,  and  having  now  added  coulis,  stew 
till  tender,  and  serve  with  the  rumps  round  the  ears  and 
sauce. 

Lamb's  Ramps  and  Ears  (white). 

PROCEED  as  above  directed ;  and  when  they  are  tender,  and 
the  liquor  is  nearly  reduced,  add  a  leason  of  eggs,  and 
serve. 

Lamb  Cutlets  a  la  Maintenon. 

HAVING  sawed  off  the  chine  bone  of  a.  loin  of  lamb,  cut  it 
into  chops,  trim  off  the  fat,  shape  them  nicely,  and  put  them 
into  a  stew  pan,  with  a  little  fresh  butter,  eschalots,  thyme, 
and  parsley,  all  shred  fine  ;  pepper,  salt,  pounded  mace,  and 
a  little  lemon  juice:  keep  moving  in  the  stewpan  till  nearly 
done;  take  them  up,  strain  the  gravy  over  them,  and  when 
nearly  cold,  strew  grated  bread  over  them  :  fold  them  up  se- 
parately in  white  paper  oiled ;  broil  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
serve  with  poivrade  in  a  tureen. — See  Sauces. 

Mutton  chops  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 

Scotch  Collops. 

CUT  your  collops  off  the  thick  part  of  a  leg  of  veal,  the 
size  and  thickness  of  a  crown  piece,  and  put  a  piece  of  butter 
browned  in  your  stewpan :  lay  in  the  collops,  arid  fry  them 
over  a  quick  fire  :  shake  and  turn  them,  and  keep  them  on 
a  fine  froth.  When  fried  of  a  light  brown,  put  them  into  a 
stewpan,  with  half  a  pint  of  coulis,  to  which  add  half  a 
lemon,  a  little  essence  of  anchovy,  half  an  ounce  of  morels, 
a  large  spoonful  of  browning,  the  same  of  ketchup,  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  lemon  pickle,  and  season  to  your  taste  with  salt 
and  cayenne:  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  let  it  simmer 
five  or  six  minutes,  and  serve  with  forcemeat  balls,  and  little 


112  MADE  DISHES. 

slices  of  fried  bacon  round  them,  and  a  few  mushrooms  over 
them. 

Oxfwd  John. 

CUT  a  stale  leg  of  mutton  into  as  thin  collops  as  you  can, 
and  take  out  all  the  sinews.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
mace,  and  strew  among  them  a  little  shred  parsley,  thyme, 
and^two  or  three  eschalots.  Put  a  good  lump  of  butter  into  a 
stewpan,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  hot,  put  in  the  collops,  stirring 
them  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  they  are  three  parts  done  ;  then 
add  half  a  pint  of  coulis,  a  little  juice  of  lemon,  and  thicken 
it  with  flour  and  butter.  Let  them  simmer  four  or  five  mi- 
nutes, and  serve  tfith  the  sauce  strained  over  them. 

A  Pig  au  Pere.  Duillet. 

HAVING  cut  off  the  head,  and  divided  the  pig  into  quar- 
ters, lard  them  with  bacon,  and  season  them  well  with  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg,  cloves,  and  mace.  Place  a  layer  of  fat  ba- 
con at  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan,  Jay  the  head  in  the  middle, 
and  the  quarters  round  it.  Then  put  in  a  bay  leaf,  an  onion 
shred,  a  lemon,  some  carrots,  parsley,  and  liver,  and  cover 
again  with  bacon.  Put  in  a  quart  of  second  stock,  stew  it 
for  an  hour,  and  then  take  it  up  :  put  the  pig  into  a  stewpan, 
pour  in  a  pint  of  white  wine,  cover  close,  and  let  it  stew  for 
an  hour  very  slowly.  While  the  pig  is  stewing  in  the  wine, 
take  the  first  gravy  it  was  stewed  in,  skim  oft  the  fat,  and 
strain  it :  then  take  a  sweetbread  cut  into  five  or  six  slices, 
some  truffles,  morels,  and  mushrooms,  and  stew  all  together 
till  enough  :  thicken  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  or  a  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour  ;  and  when  the  pig  is  enough,  take  it 
out,  and  lay  it  in  your  dish.  Add  the  wine  it  was  stewed  in  to 
the  ragoo,  and  pour  all  over  the  pig,  and  serve. 

Fillet  of  Pork  with  Sauce  Robert. 

HAVING  boned  a  loin  or  neck  of  pork,  cut  off  the  rind: 
put  some  second  stock  into  a  stewpan,  and  lay  in  the  pork, 
covering  it  with  shred  onions  and  sage,  seasoned  with  white 
pepper  and  salt:  over  these  place  the  rind,  and  stew  gently 
for  three  hours :  take  it  up,  and  having  dried  it,  glaize,  and 
serve  on  sauce  Robert. — See  Sauces. 

Leg  of  Pork  a  la  Boisseau. 

TAKE  a  leg  of  pork  that  has  been  in  salt  for  four  days,  put 
into  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes  :  take  it  up,  skin, 
spit,  and  roast  it :  when  done,  brush  it  over  with  yolk  of  egg, 


MADE  DISHES.  US 

strew  grated  bread  all  over  it,  and  brown  with  a  salamander, 
serving  it  with  sauce  poivrade  under  it. — See  Sauces. 

Ham  brained. 

HAVING  soaked  the  ham  for  twenty  four  hours  in  warm  wa- 
ter, set  to  boil  in  cold  water  for  twenty  minutes  :  take  it  up, 
and  having  taken  off"  the  rind  and  trimmed  it,  lay  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  pint  of  white  wine  and  a  brown  braise  (see  Sauces)  ; 
cover  very  closely,  and  stew  very  gently  till  sufficiently  done  : 
take  it  up,  wipe  dry,  and  glaze,  serving  it  on  stewed 
spinach. 

Loin  of  Pork  a  la  Sicilienne. 

CUT  the  loin  of  pork  as  for  chops,  but  do  riot  entirely  divide 
them  :  shred  small  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sage,  and  with  it 
stuff  all  the  cuts  between  the  chops :  tie  it  together  with  a 
tape,  and  having  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan,  cover  it  with 
equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water,  and  let  it  lie  covered  for 
ten  days:  cover  the  pan  with  a  strong  sheet  of  white  paper, 
and  bake  it :  take  the  pork  out  of  the  liquor,  and  serve  with 
currant  jelly  ;  or  a  little  of  the  liquor  skimmed,  a  lump  of 
sugar,  and  a  glass  of  port  wine. 

Petit-toes,  or  young  Pigs'  Feet. 

.  HAVING  scalded  two  or  three  sets  of  feet,  and  the  plucks, 
take  them  up,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  half  a  pint 
of  water,  two  eschalots,  a  little  parsley  and  sage,  all  shred 
fine;  season  with  a  blade  of  mace,  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
white  pepper,  and  salt :  when  they  are  nearly  done,  and  the 
liquor  consumed,  mince  the  pluck,  and  add  it  to  the  feet  with 
a  white  coulis,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  white  wine,  and  season  with  cayenne  and  salt : 
stew  the  whole  till  tender,  and  serve  with  sippets  round 
them. 

Large  Pigs'1  Feet  and  Ears. 

SCALD  and  clean  them  ;  split  the  feet,  and  tie  them  toge- 
ther with  string :  having  put  them  into  a  pot  covered  with 
water,  let  them  boil ;  skim  clean,  and  add  a  little  thyme, 
onions,  eschalots,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  two  bay  leaves,  whole 
pepper,  two  blades  of  mace,  allspice,  and  salt :  stew  till  ten- 
der ;  take  them  up,  and  put  them  in  an  earthen  pan  for  use  : 
when  wanted,  take  any  number,  put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  bit  of  fresh  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  thyme, 
eschalots,  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon  juice  :  shake  them  about 
in  the  stewpan  till  they  have  imbibed  all  the  flavour  of  the 


MADE  DISHES. 


herbs,  and  are  sufficiently  done  ;  take  them  up,  brush  them 
with  yolk  of  egg,  strew  grated  bread  over  them,  and  broil 
over  a  o-eutle  fire  :  cut  the  ears  in  slices,  put  them  into  a 
stewpaiffor  ten  minutes  with  a  good  seasoned  coulis  (see 
Sauces),  and  serve  with  the  feet  over  them. 

Goose  a  la  Royale. 

HAVING  boned  the  goose,  stuff  it  with  the  following  force- 
meat :  twelve  sage  leaves,  two  onions,  two  apples,  shred  all 
very  fine  ;  mix  with  grated  bread,  four  ounces  of  beef  mar- 
row, two  glasses  of  port  wine,  grated  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt, 
shred  lemon  peel,  and  four  yolks  of  eggs  :  sew  up  the  goose  ; 
try  in  butter  of  a  light  brown  ;  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
with  two  quarts  of  good  stock,  letting  it  stew  two  hours,  and 
till  the  liquor  is  nearly  consumed  t  take  up  the  goose  ;  strain 
the  liquor,  and  skim  off  the  fat,  adding  a  spoonful  of  lemon 
pickle,  the  same  quantity  of  browning  and  port  wine,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  beaten  mace,  cayenne,  and 
salt  :  give  it  a  boil,  and  serve  over  the  goose. 

Ducks  a  la  Mode. 

CUT  a  couple  of  fine  ducks  into  quarters,  and  fry  them  in 
butter  till  they  are  a  little  brown  :  pour  out  all  the  fat,  dust  a 
.little  flour  over  them,  and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  good  stock, 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  red  wine,  an  anchovy,  two  eschalots,  and 
a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs.  Cover  close,  and  let  them  stew  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Take  out  the  herbs,  skim  off  the  fat, 
and  let  your  sauce  be  as  thick  as  cream. 

Ducks  a  la  Braise. 

HAVING  singed  and  dressed  your  ducks,  lard  them  quite 
through  with  bacon  rolled  in  shred  parsley,  onions,  thyme, 
pepper,  salt,  and  beaten  mace.  Put  a  few  slices  of  fat  bacon 
in  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan,  the  same  of  gammon  of  bacon  or 
ham,  two  or  three  slices  of  beef  or  veal,  and  lay  your  ducks 
in  with  their  breasts  downwards.  Cover  the  ducks  with  slices 
the  same  as  you  put  under  them,  and  cut  in  a  carrot  or  two, 
a  turnip,  a  head  of  celery,  an  onion,  four  or  five  cloves,  a 
blade  of  mace,  and  a  little  whole  pepper.  Cover  them  close 
down,  and  let  them  simmer  a  little  over  a  gentle  fire  till  the 
breast  is  of  a  light  brown  :  add  some  good  stock,  cover  them 
down  again  closely,  and  stew  them  gently  till  enough,  and 
the  liquor  is  nearly  consumed,  which  will  require  two  or 
three  hours  :  take  some  parsley,  an  onion  or  eschalot,  a  few 
gerkins  or  capers,  and  two  anchovies  ;  chop  all  very  fine,  and 


MADE  DISHES.  1 1  5 

put  them  in  a  stewpan,  with  the  liquor  from  the  ducks,  a  little 
browning,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Boil  it  up,  and  cut  the 
ends  of  the  bacon  even  with  the  breasts  of  your  ducks.  Lay 
them  on  your  dish,  pour  the  sauce  hot  upon  them,  and  serve 
them  up. 

Ducks  a  la  Daube. 

HAVING  larded  two  ducks,  fill  them  with  a  good  forcemeat, 
containing  two  eschalots  minced  very  fine,  and  put  them  into 
a  stove  with  a  little  second  stock  for  ten  minutes :  add  a  pint 
of  good  stock,  the  bones,  giblets,  six  onions,  two  cloves,  a 
faggot  of  herbs,  cayenne,  salt,  lemon  juice,  two  blades  of 
mace,  and  half  a  pint  of  claret :  cover  with  sheets  of  bacon, 
and  'stew  slowly  for  two  hours :  take  them  up,  and  having 
strained  and  skimmed  the  liquor,  pour  it  over  them. 

Ducks  larded. 

PROCEED  as  above  directed,  except  that  the  breasts  of  the 
ducks  must  be  larded :  having  stewed  for  two  hours,  take 
them  up,  wipe  dry ;  glaze  them,  and  strain  the  gravy, 
pouring  it  into  the  dish,  and  serving  the  ducks  upon  it. 

Ducks  aux  Naves. 

PROCEED  as  above  directed  a  la  daube,  omitting  the  escha- 
lots; and  when  sufficiently  stewed,  serve  on  turnip  sauce, 
with  the  gravy  in  a  tureen. 

Ducks  aux  Concombres. 

PROCEED  as  for  ducks  larded,  omitting  the  eschalots,  and 
substituting  white  wine  for  claret :  take  them  up,  wipe  dry, 
glaze,  and  serve  on  cucumber  sauce,  with  the  gravy  in  a 
tureen. 

Ducks  a  la  Benshamelle. 

PROCEED  as  directed  aux  concombres,  substituting  bensha- 
nielle  for  cucumber  sauce. 

Turkey  a  la  Daube. 

PROCEED  as  for  the  ducks  a  la  daube,  adding  some  chopped 
oysters  to  the  forcemeat,  and  larding  the  breast:  take  up  the 
turkey,  wipe  dry,  and  glaze  :  strain  and  skim  the  gravy,  add 
a  little  oyster  liquor,  and  some  bearded  oysters:  let  these 
simmer,  and  serve  with  the  turkey  over  the  sauce. 

13 


116  MADE  DISHES. 


Fowl  a  la  Daube. 

HAVING  boned  a  large  fowl,  fill  it  with  a  good  forcemeat 
(see  Sauces),  and  braise  in  a  white  braise:  when  tlone,  take 
it  up,  wipe  dry,  and  glaze  it :  strain  the  braise  into  a  small 
stewpan,  adding  a  spoonful  of  essence  of  ham,  and  some 
pickled  mushrooms;  let  this  sauce  simmer,  and  serve  with  the 
fowl  over  it. 

Fowl  a  la  Menehout. 

HAVING  taken  the  bones  out  of  the  legs  and  wings,  draw 
them  in,  and  split  the  fowl  down  the  back  :  skewer  it  flat,  and 
put  it  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  little  butter,  eschalots,  thyme, 
parsley,  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  pepper :  shake  it  about  (or 
pass  it)  till  nearly  done:  take  it  up,  and  when  cold,  brush  it 
over  with  yolk  of  egg,  strewing  over  it  grated  bread :  broil 
gently  till  enough ;  and  having  strained  the  liquor  in  which  it 
was  passed,  adding  a  good  coulis,  two  spoonsful  of  ketchup, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  and  a  few  pickled  mushrooms: 
let  these  simmer,  and  serve  with  the  fowl  over  it. 

Chickens  in  savoury  Jelly. 

TAKE  two  chickens,  and  roast  them.  Boil  some  calf's  feet 
to  a  strong  jelly ;  take  out  the  feet,  and  skim  oft' the  fat;  beat  up 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  mix  them  with  half  a  pint  of  while 
wine  vinegar,  thejuice  of  three  lemons,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace, 
a  few  pepper-corns,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  them  to  the  jelly  ; 
and  when  it  has  boiled  five  or  six  minutes,  strain  it  several 
times  through  a  jelly  bag  till  very  clear.  Then  put  a  little  in  the 
bottom  of  a  mould  large  enough  to  hold  the  chickens,  and  when 
they  are  cold,  and  the  jelly  set,  lay  them  in  with  their  breasts 
down :  then  fill  the  mould  quite  full  with  the  rest  of  the  jelly, 
which  you  must  take  care  to  keep  from  setting,  so  that  when 
you  pour  it  into  the  bowl  it  will  not  break.  Let  it  stand  all  night ; 
and  the  next  day  put  the  mould  into  warm  water,  pretty  near 
the  top.  As  soon  as  you  find  it  loose,  lay  your  dish  over  it, 
and  turn  it  out  whole. 

Chicken  Surprise. 

ONE  large  fowl  will  do  for  a  small  dish.  Roast  it,  and 
take  the  lean  from  the  bones ;  cut  it  into  thin  slices,  about  an 
inch  long,  and  toss  it  up  with  six  or  seven  spoonsful  of  cream, 
and  a  piece  of  butter,  as  big  as  a  walnut,  rolled  in  flour. 
Boil  it  up,  and  set  it  to  cool.  Then  put  six  or  seven  thin 


MADE  DISHES.  1 17 

slices  of  bacon  round  it,  place  them  in  a  pattypan,  and  put 
some  forcemeat  on  each  side.  Work  them  up  into  the  form 
of  a  French  roll,  with  a  raw  egg,  leaving  a  hollow  place  in 
the  middle.  Put  in  your  fowl,  and  cover  them  with  some  of 
the  same  forcemeat,  rubbing  them  smooth  with  a  raw  egg. 
Make  them  of  the  height  and  bigness  of  a  French  roll,  and 
throw  a  little  fine  grated  bread  over  them.  Bake  them  three 
quarters,  or  an  hour,  in  a  gentle  oven,  or  under  a  baking 
cover,  till  they  come  to  a  fine  brown,  and  place  them  on 
your  mazarine,  that  they  may  not  touch  one  another;  but 
place  them  so  that  they  may  not  fall  flat  in  the  baking  ;  or  you 
may  form  them  on  your  table  with  a  broad  kitchen  knife,  and 
place  them  on  the  thing  you  intend  to  bake  them  on.  You 
may  put  the  leg  of  a  chicken  into  one  of  the  loaves  you  in- 
tend for  the  middle.  Let  your  sauce  be  gravy,  thickened  with 
butter,  and  a  little  jaice  of  lemon. 

Chickens  Chiringrate. 

HAVING  cut  off  the  feet  of  the  chickens,  break  the  breast- 
bone flat  with  a  rolling  pin;  but  take  care  you  do  not  break 
the  skin.  Flour  them,  fry  them  of  a  fine  brown  in  butter; 
drain  all  the  fat  out  of  the  pan,  but  leave  the  chickens  in. 
Lay  a  pound  of  gravy-beef  cut  very  thin  over  your  chickens, 
and  a  piece  of  veal  cut  very  thin,  a  little  mace,  two  or  three 
cloves,  some  whole  pepper,  an  onion,  a  little  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  and  a  piece  of  carrot.  Then  pour  in  a  quart  of  se- 
cond stock,  cover  close,  artd  let  it  stew  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour:  take  out  the  chickens,  and  keep  them  hot;  let  the 
gravy  boil  till  rich  and  good ;  strain  it  off,  and  put  it  into 
your  pan  again,  with  two  spoonsful  of  red  wine',  and  a  feu- 
mushrooms.  Put  in  the  chickens  to  heat;  and  serve  with  the 
sauce  over  them. 

Large  Fowls  forced. 

HAVING  cut  the  skin  of  a  large  fowl  down  the  breast,  care- 
fully slip  it  down  so  as  to  take  out  all  the  meat,  and  mix  .it 
with  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  cut  small.  Then  beat  them  toge- 
ther in  a  marble  mortar,  and  take  a  pint  of  large  oysters  cut 
small,  two  anchovies,  an  eschalot,  a  few  sweet  herbs,  a  little 
pepper,  some  nutmeg  grated,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs. 
Mix  all  these  together,  and  lay  it  on  the  bones,  then  draw  the 
skin  over  it,  and  sew  it  up.  Put  the  fowl  into  a  bladder,  and 
boil  it  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Stew  some  oysters  in  good 
gravy,  thickened  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  take 
the  fowl  out  of  the  bladder,  lay  it  in  your  dish,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  it. 


118  MADE  DISHES. 

Fowls  marinated. 

WITH  your  finger  raise  the  skin  from  the  breast-bone  of  a 
large  fowl  or  turkey;  cut  a  veal  sweetbread  small,  a  few 
oysters  and  mushrooms,  an  anchovy,  a  little  thyme,  some 
lemon  peel,  and  season  with  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Chop 
them  small,  and  mix  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Stuff  it 
in  between  the  skin  and  the  flesh,  but  be  careful  not  to  break 
the  skin,  and  then  stuff  what  quantity  of  oysters  you  please 
into  the  fowl :  or  you  may  lard  the  breasts  of  the  fowls  with 
bacon  ;  roast  with  a  paper  over  the  breasts,  and  serve  with  a 
good  coulis  under  them. 

Pigeons  compote. 

SKEWER  six  young  pigeons  in  the  same  manner  as  for 
boiling,  put  forcemeat  (see  Sauces)  into  the  craws,  lard  them 
down  the  breast,  and  fry  them  brown.  Put  them  into 
strong  stock,  and  when  they  have  stewed  three  quarters  of  an 
hour,  thicken  it  with  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  When 
you  serve  them  up,  strain  your  gravy  over  them,  and  lay 
forcemeat  balls  round  them. 

Pigeons  in  savoury  Jelly. 

AFTER  having  roasted  the  pigeons  with  the  head  and  feet 
on,  put  a  sprig  of  myrtle  in  their  bills,  and  make  a  jelly  for 
them  in  the  same  manner  as  before  directed  for  chickens,  and 
treat  them  the  same  in  every  other  respect. 

Pigeons  a  la  Daube 

MAY  be  prepared  in  either  of  the  modes  already  described 
for  ducks,  &c. 

Pigeons  au  Poire. 

HAVING  made  a  forcemeat  like  the  above,  and  cut  off  the 
feet,  stuff  them  in  the  shape  of  a  pear;  roll  them  in  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  and  then  in  crumbs  of  bread ;  stick  the  leg  at  top, 
and  butter  a  dish  to  lay  them  in ;  then  send  them  to  an  oven 
to  bake,  but  do  not  let  them  touch  each  other.  When  enough, 
lay  them  in  a  dish,  and  serve  with  a  good  coulis  under  them. 

Pigeons  Surtout. 

HAVING  forced  your  pigeons,  lay  a  slice  of  bacon  on  the 
breast,  and  a  slice  of  veal  beat  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  and 
seasoned  with  mace,  pepper,  and  salt.  Tie  it  on  with  a  small 
packthread,  or  two  small  fine  skewers  are  better.  Spit  them 


MADE  DISHES.  119 

on  a  fine  bird  spit,  roast,  and  baste  them  with  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, then  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  baste  them  again 
with  the  crumbs  of  bread,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  sweet  herbs. 
When  enough,  serve  them  upon  a  goodcoulis,  adding  truffles, 
morels,  and  mushrooms. 

French  Pupton  Pigeons 

HAVING  put  savory  forcemeat,  rolled  out  like  paste,  into  a 
tin  "dish  ;  add  a  layer  of  very  thin  bacon,  squab  pigeons,  sliced 
sweetbread,  asparagus  tops,  mushrooms,  cocks-combs,  a  pa- 
late boiled  tender  and  cut  into  pieces,  and  the  yolks  of  hard 
eggs  :  make  another  forcemeat,  and  lay  it  over  like  a  pie  : 
bake  it,  and  when  enough,  turn  it  into  a  dish,  and  pour  gravy 
round  it 

Pigeons  transmogrified. 

SEASON  your  pigeons  with  pepper  and  salt.  Take  a  large 
piece  of  butter,  make  a  puff-paste,  and  roll  each  pigeon  in  a 
piece  of  paste.  Tie  them  in  a  cloth,  so  that  the  paste  do  not 
break,  and  boil  them  in  a  good  deal  of  water.  When  the}' 
have  boiled  an  hour  and  a  half,  untie  them  carefully  that  they 
do  not  break.  Lay  them  on  the  dish,  and  pour  a  little  good 
gravy  round  them. 

Pigeons  d-la-Soussell. 

BONE  four  pigeons,  and  make  a  forcemeat  (see  Sauces): 
stuff  them,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  veal 
stock.  Stew  them  half  an  hour  very  gently,  and  then  take 
them  out :  in  the  meantime  make  a  veal  forcemeat,  and  wrap 
it  all  round  them.  Rub  it  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and 
fry  them  of  a  nice  brown  in  good  dripping.  Take  the  gravy 
they  were  stewed  in,  skim  off  the  fat,  thicken  with  a  leason 
of  eggs  and  cream.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  mix  all 
together,  and  stir  one  way  till  it  is  smooth.  Strain  it  into 
.your  dish,  and  serve  the  pigeons  on  it:  or  instead  of  the  leason 
and  cream ;  glaze  the  breasts,  and'  serve  on  stewed  sorrel, 
with  the  gravy  in  a  tureen. 

Pigeons  en  Poqueton. 

PUT  some  forcemeat  into  a  small  stewpan,  and  spread  it  at 
the  bottom  and  sides  as  a  paste,  rubbing  your  stewpan  first 
with  butter.  Put  in  a  couple  of  pigeons,  some  sweetbreads 
and  palates  neatly  cut  and  ranged  in  your  pan,  and  some  fresh 
mushrooms.  Close  the  top  with  forcemeat,  cover  it  over  with 
slices  of  bacon,  and  bake  it  in  a  gentle  oven.  Before  you 
close  it,  pour  some  gravy  in  the  inside.  Your  pigeons,  &c. 


120  MADE  DISHES. 

should  bfe  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  eschalot. 
When  done,  turn  it  out  carefully  into  your  dii>h;  and  pour 
into  it  a  good  coulis. 

Partridges  a  la  Braise. 

TRUSS  two  braces  of  partridges  with  the  legs  in  the 
bodies:  lard  them,  and  season  with  beaten  mace,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Take  a  stewpan,  lay  slices  of  bacon  at  the  bottom,  then 
slices  of  beef,  and  then  slices  of  veal,  all  cut  thin  ;  a  piece 
of  carrot,  an  onion  cut  small,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and 
some  whole  pepper.  Lay  the  partridges  with  their  breasts 
downwards,  lay  some  thin  slices  of  beef  and  veal  over  them, 
and  some  parsley  shred  fine.  Cover  them,  and  let  them  ste^r 
eight  or  ten  minutes  over  a  slow  fire.  Then  give  your  pan  a 
shake,  and  pour  in  a  pint  of  weak  stock.  Cover  close,  and 
let  it  stew  half  an  hour  over  a  little  quicker  fire.  Then  take 
out  the  birds,  and  reduce  the  gravy  till  there  is  about  half- a 
pint :  strain  it  off,  and  skim  off  the  fat.  In  the  meantime, 
nave  a  veal  sweetbread  cut  small,  truffles  and  morels,  cocks- 
combs, and  fowl's  livers,  stewed  in  a  pint  of  good  gravy  half 
an  hour,  some  artichoke  bottoms,  and  asparagus  tops,  both 
blanched  in  warm  water,  and  a  few  mushrooms.  Then  add 
the  other  gravy  to  this,  and  put  in  your  partridges  to  heat. 
If  not  thick  enough,  take  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 
toss  up  in  it, 

Pheasants  a  la  Braise. 

HAVING  put  a  layer  of  beef  all  over  your  pan,  a  layer  of 
veal,  a  little  piece  of  bacon,  a  piece  of  carrot,  an  onion  stuck 
with  cloves,  a  blade  or  two  or  mace,  a  spoonful  of  pepper, 
black  and  white,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  lay  in  the 
pheasant.  Then  lay  a  layer  of  beef,  and  a  layer  of  veal,  to 
cover  it.  Set  it  on  the  fire  for  five  or  six  minutes,  and  then 
pour  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  stock.  Cover  close,  aod  let 
it  stew  very  softly  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  take  up  your 
pheasant,  and  keep  it  hot:  let  the  gravy  boil  till  it  is  reduced 
to  about  a  pint,  strain  it  off,  and  put  it  in  again.  Put  in  a 
veal  sweetbread,  first  being  stewed  with  the  pheasant:  add 
truffles  and  morels,  some  livers  of  fowls,  artichoke  bottoms, 
and  asparagus  tops,  if  you  have  them  :  let  these  simrcer  in  the 
gravy  about  five  or  six  minutes,  and  add  two  spoonsful  of  ket- 
chup, two  of  red  wine,  and  a  little  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  with  a  spoonful  of  browning.  Shake  all  together,  put 
in  your  pheasant,  let  them  stew  altogether,  with  a  few  mush- 
rooms, about  five  or  six  minutes  more.  Then  take  up  your 
pheasant,  and  pour  your  ragottt  all  over,  with  a  few  forcemeat 
balls. 


MADE  DISHES.  121 


Small  Birds  in  savoury  Jelly. 

PUT  a  good  piece  of  butter  into  the  bellies  of  eight  small 
birds,  with  their  heads  and  feet  on,  and  sew  up  their  vents. 
Put  them  in  a  jug,  cover  it  close  with  a  cloth,  and  set  them 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  till  they  are  enough.  Drain  them, 
and  make  your  jelly  as  before,  and  put  a  little  into  a  mould  : 
when  it  is  set,  lay  in  three  birds  with  their  breasts  down,  and 
cover  them  with  the  jelly  :  when  this  is  set,  put  in  the  other 
five,  with  their  heads  in  the  middle,  and  proceed  in  the  same 
manner  as  before  directed  for  chickens. 

FJorendine  Hares. 

LET  the  hare  be  a  full  grown  one,  and  let  it  hang  up  four 
or;  five  days  before  you  case  it.  Leave  on  the  ears,  but  take 
out  all  the  bones,  except  those  of  the  head,  which  must  be  left 
entire.  Lay  the  hare  on  the  table,  and  put  into  it  the  fol- 
lowing forcemeat:  take  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  the  liver 
shred  fine,  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon  scraped,  a  glass  of  red 
wine,  an  anchovy,  two  eggs,  a  little  winter  savory,  som6  sweet 
marjoram,  thyme,  and  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 
Having  put  this  into  the  belly,  roll  it  up  to  the  head,  skewer 
it  with  packthread,  as  you  would  a  collar  of  veal.  Wrap  it  in 
a  cloth,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  in  a  saucepan  covered, 
with  two  quarts  of  weak  stock:  as  soon  as  the  liquor  is  reduced 
to  about  a  quart,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  a  spoonful  of 
lemon  pickle,  one  of  ketchup,  and  the  same  of  browning  :  stew 
till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pint,  and  thicken  it  with  butter  rolled  in 
flour.  Lay  round  your  hare  a  few  morels,  and  four  slices  of 
forcemeat  boiled  in  a  veal  caul.  When  you  serve  it  up,  draw 
the  jaw-bones,  and  stick  them  in  the  eyes  for  horns.  Let  the 
ears  lie  back  on  the  roll,  and  stick  a  sprig  of  myrtle  in  the 
mouth.  Serve  on  the  sauce. 

Florendine  Rabbits. 

SKIN  three  young  rabbits,  but  leave  on  the  ears,  and  wash 
and  dry  them  with  a  cloth.  Carefully  take  out  the  bones, 
but  leave  the  head  whole,  and  proceed  in  the  same  manner  as 
above  directed  for  the  hare.  Have  ready  a  white  sauce  made 
of  veul  s:ock,  a  little  anchovy,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  or  a 
tea-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle.  Strain  it,  and  take  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  so  as  to  make  the  sauce 
pretty  thick.  Keep  stirring  it  while  the  flour  is  dissolving. 
Add  a  leason  of  eggs  and  cream,  nutmeg,  and  salt,  and  mix 
with  the  gravy  :  let  it  simmer  a  little  over  the  fire,  and  pour 
it  over  the  rabbits. 


122  MADE  DISHES. 

Rabbits  Surprised. 

TAKE  young  rabbits,  skewer  them,  and  put  the  same  pud- 
ding into  them  as  directed  for  roasted  rabbits.  When  roasted, 
draw  out  the  jaw-bones,  and  stick  them  in  the  eyes  to  appear 
like  horns.  Then  take  offthe  meat  clean  from  the  bones ;  but 
the  bones  must  be  left  whole.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine,  with 
a  little  shred  parsley,  some  lemon-peel,  an  ounce  of  beef  mar- 
row, a  spoonful  of  cream,  and  a  little  salt:  beat  up  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  in  a 
marble  mortar;  then  mix  all  together,  and  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan  :  having  stewed  it  five  minutes,  lay  it  on  the  rabbit  where 
you  took  the  meat  off,  and  put  it  close  down  with  your  hand, 
to  make  it  appear  like  a  whole  rabbit :  brush  it  over  with  yolk 
of  egg,  strew  over  it  grated  bread,  and  with  a  salamander 
brown  it  all  over:  pour  a  good  brown  coulis,  made  as  thick 
as  cream,  into  the  dish,  and  stick  a  bunch  of  myrtle  into  their 
mouths. 

Rabbits  in  Casserole. 

HAVING  divided  your  rabbits  into  quarters,  you  may  lard 
them  or  not.  Shake  some  flour  over  them,  and  fry  them  in 
lard  or  butter :  put  them  into  an  earthen  pan,  with  a  quart  of 
good  stock,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour:  cover  close,  and  let  them  stew  half  an  hour;  then  serve 
them  up,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

Turtle. 

TAKE  a  turtle  weighing  one  hundred  pounds;  the  evening 
before  you  dress  it,  tie  a  cord  to  the  two  hind  fins,  and 
hang  it  up :  tie  a  cord  in  like  manner  to  the  fore  fins  to  pinion 
it;  and  cut  off  the  head.  Lay  the  turtle  with  the  back  shell 
downwards  upon  a  block,  anil  loose  the  shell  all  round  the 
edge  by  cutring  it,  and  raise  the  shell  clean  off  the  flesh : 
take  out  the  gall  without  breaking  it ;  cut  the  fore  fins  off, 
and  all  the  flesh  will  come  away  with  them  :  cut  off  the  hind 
fins ;  takeout  the  liver  whole,  and  the  heart  and  kidneys  :  cut 
out  the  entrails  from  the  back  bone,  and  put  them  into  a  large 
pan  :  wash  the  shell  so  as  to  free  it  from  the  blood,  and  turn 
it  down  to  drain :  cut  the  fins  from  tiie  lean  meat ;  and  cut  the 
belly  shell  into  twelve  pieces :  turn  up  the  back  shell,  and  take 
all  the  fat  from  it.  putting  it  into  a  stewpan :  saw  off  the  upper 
part  of  the  back  shell  about  six  inches  deep  :  set  a  large  stew- 
pan  full  of  water  upon  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  dip  the  fins, 
head,  and  pieces  of  shell,  separately  into  it,  clearing  each  as  it 


MADE  DISHES.  125 

is  scalded,  peeling  the  fins,  head,  and  shell:  put  the  pieces  of 
shell  into  a  stewpan  with  eighteen  large  onions ;  and  a  faggot 
of  turtle  herbs;  and  having  filled  it  with  water,  make  it  boil, 
and  then  set  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  till  they  are 
tender:  cut  the  fore  fins  into  four,  and  the  hind  ones  into  two 
pieces  ;  and  having  put  them  into  a  stewpan  that  will  exactly 
hold  them  ;  add  twelve  large  onions  and  a  faggot  of  turtle 
herbs;  cover  with  water  and  set  on  a  stove  to  boil;  when  it 
boils,  set  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  till  the  fins  are  ten- 
der: draw  out  all  the  bones  and  put  them  by  themselves  on  a 
dish  ;  take  up  the  pieces  of  shell  on  another  dish,  and  strain 
the  liquor  both  were  boiled  in,  into  one  pan  :  cut  off  the  lean 
meat,  and  let  what  is  not  reserved  for  the  callipee,  be  added, 
together  with  three  fowls,  a  faggot  of  turtle  herbs,  a  dozen 
large  onions,  and  two  pounds  of  lean  ham :  put  the  ham  at 
the  bottom  of  a  soup-pot,  with  the  fowls  cut  in  pieces,  and 
the  lean  meat  over  them,  adding  a  bottle  of  madeira,  and  set 
the  pot  on  a  stove  to  draw-down,  taking  care  it  does  not 
burn  :  let  it  stew  an  hour,  and  fill  it  up  with  the  liquor  strained 
from  the  fins  and  pieces  of  shell;  and  when  it  boils,  set  it  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  ,to  stew  for  two  hours  :  strain  it  off,  taking 
what  lean  meat  may  be  wanted  for  the  tureens,  and  keep  it 
covered  with  stock  that  it  may  be  hot :  scour  and  scald  the 
entrails  quite  clean,  cutting  them  into  pieces  about  two  inches 
long  ;  and  set  them  on  in  cold  water  to  blanch  :  having  washed 
them  clean,  cover  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  with  fat  bacon,  put 
in  the  entrails  with  the  liver  blanched,  adding  a  few  onions, 
two  lemons  peeled  and  cut  into  slices,  a  quart  of  stock,  and 
cover  with  fat  bacon,  letting  them  stew  gently  for  three  hours : 
put  two  pounds  of  butter  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pound  of  lean 
ham  cut  small,  some  mushrooms,  truffles,  eschalots,  parsley, 
marjoram,  thyme,  basil,  a  large  onion,  and  a  pint  of  stock  ; 
set  the  stewpan  over  a  stove  to  stew  for  an  hour,  add  a  plate- 
ful of  flour  by  degrees,  and  the  remainder  of  the  turtle  stock 
that  the  fins  and  shell  were  stewed  in :  to  these  add  four  or 
five  quarts  of  rich  veal  stock,  and  a  bottle  of  madeira  :  let  it 
boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  rub  it  through  a  tamis  :  take  one 
half  of  this  soup,  and  put  it  into  a  soup-pot  with  the  lean  meat 
cut  in  pieces  about  two  inches  square,  forcemeat  balls  and 
egg  balls,  to  be  served  in  tureens:  take  the  other  half  of  the 
soup,  and  having  put  it  into  a  soup-pot,  add  the  fins  and  head 
cut  in  pieces,  together  with  forcemeat  balls  and  egg  balls,  to 
be  served  in  tureens :  put  the  green  fat  to  stew  with  a  little 
stock  and  madeira ;  and  when  done,  cut  it  into  small  pieces, 
and  add  it  to  each  of  the  soup-pots :  take  a  little  of  the  soup 
out  of  each  pot,  and  season  with  cayenne,  pounded  spices, 
and  salt;  and  divide  it  equally:  just  before  the  turtle  is 


124  MADE  DISHES. 

served,  squeeze  into  a  bason  four  lemons,  and  three  Seville 
oranges,  adding  a  pint  of  madeira,  a  table-spoonful  of  pounded 
sugar,  and  a  little  salt :  divide  this  equally  between  the  soup- 
pots,  and  servo  in  tureens. 

Callipee. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  the  under  part  of  the  turtle,  and  scald 
it ;  taking  out  the  shoulder-bone,  and  filling  the  cavity  with 
a  well  high  seasoned  forcemeat  made  with  the  lean  of  the 
turtle ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  pint  of  madeira,  cayenne, 
salt,  lemon  juice,  a  clove  of  garlic,  mace,  cloves,  allspice 
pounded,  faggot  of  turtle  herbs,  six  large  onions,  and  four 
quarts  of  strong  veal  stock  ;  and  stew  gently  till  three  parts 
done :  take  up  the  turtle,  and  put  it  into  another  stewpan 
with  some  of  the  entrails  boiled,  and  egg  balls;  add  a  thick- 
ening of  flour  and  butter  to  the  liquor,  let  it  boil,  and  strain  it 
to  the  turtle :  stew  till  tender,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish,  having 
a  border  of  paste  ornamented,  and  previously  baked. 

Mock  Turtle  without  Calves  Head. 

TAKE  three  cow-heels,  and  having  cut  them  in  pieces,  stew 
till  tender  in  four  quarts  of  second  stock  :  add  five  anchovies, 
a  piece  of  butter,  salt,  cayenne,  mace,  cloves,  shred  lemon- 
peel,  three  leeks,  parsley,  and  lemon-thyme,  all  finely  shred  : 
stew  gently  for  two  hours  :  cut  two  pounds  of  lean  veal  into 
small  pieces,  fry  in  butter  of  a  light  brown,  and  add  to  the 
above,  with  a  pint  of  madeira,  four  spoonfuls  of  ketchup,  and 
stew  another  hour:  have  ready  some  forcemeat  balls  and  egg 
balls,  which  add  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  serving,  and  im- 
mediately before  put  into  the  tureen,  add  the  juice  of  two 
lemons. 

Mock  Turtle  of  Calves  Head. 

TAKE  a  scalp  cleaned  by  the  butcher,  scald  for  twenty  mi- 
nutes, wash  it  clean,  and  cut  into  pieces  two  inches  square  ; 
add  four  quarts  of  veal  stock,  and  boil  till  nearly  done :  take 
two  pounds  of  veal  cut  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square,  and 
stew  in  a  quart  of  strong  veal  stock,  seasoned  with  a  faggot  of 
turtle  herbs,  six  onions,  cayenne,  salt,  mace,  and  cloves;  stew 
fill  tender,  and  strain,  adding  the  meat  and  strained  liquor  to 
the  head,  &c. :  let  the  whole  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour  adding 
a  pint  of  madeira,  forcemeat  balls,  and  egg  balls :  just  before 
serving,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon.  • 

Or  having  scalded  a  calf's  head  with  the  skin  on,  saw  it  in 
two  ;  take  out  the  brains,  tie  up  the  head  in  a  cloth,  and  boil 
it  one  hour:  cut  the  meat  in  small  square  pieces,  and  throw 


MADE  DISHES.  1 25 

them  into  cold  water,  washing  them  clean  :  put  the  meat  into 
a  stewpan  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  good  veal  stock  to  cover 
it;  let  it  boil  till  tender,  and  remove  it  from  the  fire:  into 
another  stewpan  put  half  a  pound  of  butter,  the  same  of  lean 
ham  cut  fine,  parsley,  thyme,  eschalots,  mushrooms,  marjo- 
ram, basil,  and  four  onions,  all  chopped  very  fine,  and  add  a 
pint  of  stock :  let  them  all  simmer  for  two  hours  ;  strain,  and 
thicken  with  flour,  adding  stock  sufficient  to  make  two  tu- 
reens, and  a  bottle  of  madeira  ;  let  it  boil  five  minutes,  add 
forcemeat  balls,  egg  balls,  and  the  meat  with  the  stock;  sea- 
son with  cayenne,  salt,  and  pounded  spices :  let  the  whole 
heat  thoroughly  without  boiling,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
Seville  orange,  and  serve  immediately. 

Souties  of  Carp,  Tench,  Salmon,  Eels. 

HAVING  cleaned  the  fish,  bone  and  cut  them  into  thin  col- 
lops  ;  flat,  and  put  them  into  a  souties-pan  prepared  in  the 
following  manner:  having  taken  a  bit  of  fresh  butter,  shake  it 
over  the  fire  till  melted,  sprinkling  thyme,  parsley,  eschalot, 
and  a  little  basil,  all  finely  shred,  and  seasoned  with  white  pep- 
per, salt,  and  cayenne  :  shake  the  fish  gently  over  a  stove  till 
half  done ;  and  having  turned  the  slices,  continue  to  move  the 
pan  till  they  are  enough  :  take  them  up,  place  them  round  a 
dish,  and  change  the  herbs,  &c.  into  a  small  stewpan,  adding 
a  glass  of  claret  or  port,  a  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy, 
the  same  of  oyster  ketchup  and  lemon  pickle,  a  lump  of  sugar, 
and  half  a  pint  of  good  coulis  :  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
having  strained  the  sauce  through  a  tamis,  pour  it  into  the 
middle  of  the  dish. 

Souties  of  Haddocks,  Co4,  Me. 

HAVING  boned  the  fish,  cut  them  into  collops ;  butter  a 
souties-pan,  and  sprinkle  it  with  pepper  and  salt ;  and  having 
flatted  the  collops,  put  them  on  the  souties-pan:  set  them  on 
a  stove  for  five  minutes,  turn  them  and  put  them  on  a  dish  : 
put  the  liquor  that  comes  from  the  fish  into  a  stewpan  with 
half  a  pint  of  benshamelle  (see  Sauces ) ,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
essence  of  anchovies,  the  same  of  garlic,  vinegar,  and  lemon 
pickle,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar;  let  "the  whole  boil, 
and  serve  over  the  fish. 

Entree  of  Crimped  Cod. 

TAKE  a  slice  of  crimped  cod  three  inches  thick,  put  it  into 
boiling  salt  and  water,  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes  :  when  cold, 
prick  it  into  flakes,  and  dip  each  flake  separately  into  the  fol- 
lowing batter :  two  spoonsful  of  flour,  one  of  sweet  oil,  and 


126  MADE  DISHES. 

the  same  of  white  wine,  seasoned  with  a  little  salt  and  white 
pepper:  fry  in  boiling  lard  till  of  a  nice  brown;  and  having 
drained  them  dry,  serve  with  fried  parsley  round,  and  oyster 
sauce  in  a  tureen. 

Entree  of  Fish  in  a  Mould. 

HAVING  wiped  the  mould  clean,  rub  the  inside  with  fresh 
butter,  and  strew  over  the  bottom  a  layer  of  grated  Parmezan 
cheese  an  inch  thick,  and  upon  that  another  layer  of  boiled 
ribband  maccaroni :  upon  this,  place  slices  offish  boned,  and 
strewed  with  parsley,  thyme,  and  eschalots,  kitchen  pepper, 
and  cayenne,  all  shred  fine:  on  these  lay  maccaroni  and  Par- 
mezan cheese,  as  at  first :  put  the  mould  into  a  moderate 
oven,  bake  it  an  hour,  turn  it  out,  and  serve  with  a  goodcoulis 
round  it. 

Entree  of  Eels. 

HAVING  skinned  and  ',oned  two  large  eels,  cut  them  in 
pieces  three  inches  long ;  pass  them  over  a  fire  in  a  small 
quantity  of  sweet  herbs  and  eschalots  chopped  very  fine,  fresh 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon  juice  :  when  three  parts  done, 
put  all  on  a  dish,  dip  each  piece  into  the  liquor,  roll  it  in 
grated  bread,  and  broil  it :  serve  with  anchovy  sauce. 

Entree  of  Soles. 

HAVING  cleaned  and  filleted  the  soles,  roll  them  up ;  put 
them  into  a  stewpan,  adding  a  little  fresh  butter,  lemon  juice, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  till  done  :  serve 
with  a  strong  coulis  coloured  with  pounded  lobster  spawn, 
adding  to  it  a  few  button  onions,  mushrooms,  sliced  pickled 
cucumbers,  cayenne,  and  salt. 

Entree  of  Fillets  of  Soles. 

HAVING  boned  and  filleted  the  soles,  roll  them  up,  tying 
them  with  thread :  wipe  one  half  of  them  dry,  dip  them  in 
egg,  roll  in  grated  bread,  and  fry  of  a  nice  brown :  boil  the 
other  half  in  salt  and  water,  and  place  them  alternately  in  the 
dish,  with  nicely  coloured  lobster  sauce  under  them. 

Entree  of  Salmon. 

HAVING  made  white  paper  cases,  put  a  little  sweet  oil  in 
the  bottom  of  each  :  cut  the  salmon  into  pieces,  pepper  and 
salt  them,  and  put  them  into  the  cases :  set  them  on  a  baking 
plate  over  the  fire,  or  put  them  into  the  oven  :  when  done, 
serve  Avith  a  poached  egg  on  each,  and  anchovy  sauce  in  a 
tureen. 


MADE  DISHES.  127 


Entree  of  Skate. 

BOIL  four  or  five  rings  of  crimped  skate  in  strong  salt  and 
water  for  ten  minutes :  drain  dry,  and  serve  with  the  following 
sauce  over  it :  a  gill  of  weak  veal  stock,  a  gill  of  melted  butter, 
a  gill  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  a  little  mustard, 
beaten  well  together,  to  these  add  the  liver  previously  boiled 
and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  white 
pepper  and  salt ;  let  the  whole  warm  thoroughly,  but  not 
boil. 

Entree  ofMackarel. 

HAVING  split  them  down  the  back,  season  with  white  pepper 
and  salt,  and  lay  a  sprig  of  fennel  in  each :  broil  them  gently, 
take  out  the  fennel,  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce : 
melted  butter,  green  onions  and  parsley  chopped  vety  small, 
white  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon  juice. 

Entree  of  any  kind  of  Fish  in  Balls, 

HAVING  boned  the  fish,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  adding  to  it 
parsley,  thyme,  basil,  and  eschalots,  chopped  very  fine; 
kitchen  pepper,  a  spoonful  of  white  wine,  cayenne,  salt,  grated 
bread,  half  a  gill  of  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  ;  mix 
all  well  together,  and  roll  into  small  balls  :  put  them  into  boil- 
ing water,  simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  drain  dry,  and 
serve  with  a  strong  coulis  over  them. 

Fillets  of  Salmon. 

HAVING  cut  six  thin  slices  of  Salmon,  flat  them  gently ; 
brush  them  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  season  with  white  pepper 
and  salt,  roll  them  up,  tying  them  with  thread,  and  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  that  will  just  hold  them :  cover  them  with 
bacon,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  stock,  and  set  the  stewpan  on  a 
stove  for  half  an  hour:  take  up  the  salmon,  skim  the  liquor, 
add  a  gill  of  coulis,  a  glass  of  madeira,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
essence  of  anchovy,  a  small  lump  of  sugar,  a  few  chopped 
capers,  cayenne,  and  salt :  let  the  sauce  simmer,  and  serve 
with  the  fish  over  it. 

Fillets  of  Soles. 

HAVING  filleted  a  pair  of  soles,  shred  two  of  the  fillets  and 
as  much  fat  bacon,  and  put  them  into  a  mortar  with  a  little 
parsley  and  eschalots  shred  :  pound  these,  and  add  two  ounces 
of  grated  bread  previously  soaked  in  cream,  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  two  anchovies  washed,  boned,  and  shred,  white  pepper 


128  MADE  DISHES. 

and  salt :  pound  these  well  together,  and  having  flattened  the 
fillets,  brush  them  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  and  spread  over 
them  a  thin  sheet  of  the  above  force  :  roll  them  up,  tying  the 
rolls  with  thread  ;  and  having  lined  a  tart,pan  Avith  sheets  of 
fat  bacon,  put  in  the  rolls,  cover  with  sheets  of  fat  bacon,  and 
add  a  little  stock  :  put  the  tart-pan  into  a  slow  oven  for  half 
an  hour,  take  up  the  rolls,  and  serve  with  Italian  sauce  over 
them. 

'Fillets  of  Whitings. 

HAVING  boned  and  filleted  the  whitings,  put  the  fillets  for 
five  minutes  into  boiling  water ;  take  them  up,  and  serve,  with 
Italian  sauce  over  them. 

Fillets  of  Sturgeon 

ARE  to  be  dressed  exactly  in  the  way  already  directed  for 
soles,  except  that  a  very  little  garlic  finely  shred  may  be 
added  to  the  farce  :  serve  with  sauce  royal  over  them. 

Matelot  of  Carp  and  Tench. 

HAVING  scaled  and  cleaned  the  fish,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  pint  of  port  wine,  a  pint  of  stock,  two  dozen  small 
onions,  a  quart  of  mushrooms,  a  faggot  of  turtle  herbs,  and  a 
few  blades  of  mace:  set  it  on  a  stove  for  half  an  hour:  into 
another  stewpan  put  an  ounce  of.  butter,  parsley,  eschalots, 
'four  anchovies,  all  shred  ;  set  these  on  the  fire  for  a  minute  or 
two,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  burn,  and  add  a  gill  of  stock  : 
let  this  simmer  till  the  fish  is  done ;  take  up  the  fish,  mix  the 
contents  of  both  stewpans  together,  let  them  boil,  strain 
through  a  tamis,  a"nd  serve  over  the  fish,  with  two  dozen 
blanched  oysters. 

Salmon  it  la  Royale. 

HAVING  skinned  and  cleaned  a  large  eel,  take  out  the  bone, 
chop  the  meat  quite  fine,  adding  two  anchovies,  a  little  lemon 
peel  shred  fine,  peppe; ,  grated  nutmeg,  parsley,  and  yolk  of 
an  egg  boiled  hard  anH  shred:  mix  all  together,  and  roll  up 
in  a  piece  of  butter  ;  a.id  with  this  make  a  stuffing  for  a  hand- 
some piece  of  the  salmon  :  lay  the  fish  in  a  stewpan  that  will 
just  hold  it,  adding  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  when  it 
is  melted  shake  in  a  little  flour,  and  stir  till  it  is  brown :  to 
this  put  a  pint  of  fish-stock  (see  Sauces)^  pint  of  madeira,  an 
onion,  a  faggot  of  turtle-herbs,  and  season  with  kitchen  pep- 
per ;  let  the  whole  stew  till  nearly  done,  and  add  mushroom 
powder,  truffles,  and  morels;  when  quite  done,  take  up  the 
salmon,  and  strain  the  sauce  over  it. 


MADE  DISHES.  129 


Turbot,  Soles,  and  Flat  Fish,  a  la  Francoise. 

HAVING  cleaned  the  fish,  put  them  into  an  earthen  dish, 
with  u  quart  of  water  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar;  let  them  lie 
two  hours,  take  them  out,  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  and  put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  with  a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  water,  a  little  marjoram,  winter  savory,  and  an  onion  stuck 
with  four  cloves,  sprinkle  in  a  little  bay-salt,  cover  close,  and 
stew  till  done:  take  up  the  fish,  and  keep  it  warm:  to  the 
liquor  add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  boil  till  sufficiently 
thick,  and  strain  over  the  fish. 

Matelot  of  Tench,  Carp,  Pike,  and  Perch. 

HAVING  scaled  and  cleaned  the  fish,  put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  pint  of  stock,  a  pint  of  port  wine,  two  dozen  button 
onions,  half  a  pottle  of  mushrooms,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  and 
a  faggot  of  turtle  herbs  ;  set  it  on  to  stew  for  half  an  hour ; 
take  out  the  fish,  and  to  the  liquor  add,  chopped  parsley, 
eschalots,  three  anchovies,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  coulis ;  let 
the  whole  boil  well,  and  having  strained  it  through  a  tamis, 
add  two  dozen  blanched  oysters,  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  and 
serve  over  the  fish. 

Lobster  (hot).   , 

PICK  the  meat  from  the  shells  of  two  lobsters,  and  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  some  melted  butter,  a  table  spoonful  of 
essence  of  anchovy,  a  little  white  pepper,  salt,  and  powdered 
mace  :  stew  all  together,  and  shake  the  pan  till  the  lobster  is 
thoroughly  hot ;  or  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  or  lemon  pickle* 

Lobsler  in  the  shell  (hot) . 

CUT  the  fleshy  parts  of  two  or  three  middling  sized  lobsters 
into  small  squares,  and  season  them  :  put  the  contents  of  the 
body  into  a  rnortar,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
some  white  pepper  and  salt;  pound  it  well,  and  puJp  through 
a  sieve :  boil  a  little  good  stock,  and  add  the  Hesh  of  the  lob- 
sters :  when  cold,  put  the  meat  into  the  body  shells,  and  lay 
the  forced  meat  that  has  been  pulped  evenly  over  it;  sprinkle 
it  with  grated  bread,  put  it  into  the  oven  to  heat,  and  serve 
with  a  good  coulis  under  it. 

Lobster  (cold). 

TAKE  the  flesh  as  whole  as  possible  from  the  tails  and  claws, 
and  having  split  the  tail,  make  the  sauce  in  the  following  man- 
ner :  bruise  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  when 


1 30  MADE  DISHES. 

rubbed  fine,  add  a  little  mustard,  oil,  vinegar,  essence  of  an- 
chovy, white  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  elder  vinegar. 

Crab  (hot}. 

BEAT  the  flesh  and  inside  of  a  crab  in  a  marble-mortar,  with 
white  pepper,  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  and  crumbs  of  bread  ;  to 
this  add  half  a  pint  of  good  veal  stock,  and  two  spoonsful  of 
wine:  put  the  whole  into  a  stewpan  with  some  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  when  quite  hot,  add  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Crab  (cold). 
To  be  dressed  in  the  same  manner  as  lobster. 

Cucumbers  with  Eggs. 

PARE,  quarter,  and  cut  six  large  cucumbers  into  squares, 
about  the  size  of  a  dice.  Put  them  into  boiling  water,  and 
give  them  a  boil :  take  them  out  of  the  water,  and  put  them  into 
a  stewpan,  with  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  slice  of  ham,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  little  salt.  Set  it  over  the 
fire  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  keep  it  close  covered,  skim  it  well, 
and  shake  it  often,  for  it  is  apt  to  burn.  Then  dredge  in  a 
little  flour,  and  put  in  as  much  veal  stock  as  will  just  cover  the 
cucumbers.  Stir  it  well  together,  and  keep  a  gentle  fire 
under  it  till  no  scum  will  rise.  Then  take  out  the  ham  and 
onion,  and  put  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beat  up  with  a  tea- 
cup full  of  good  cream.  Stir  it  well  for  a  minute,  then  take 
it  off  the  fire,  and  just  before  you  put  it  into  a  dish,  squeeze  in 
a  little  lemon  juice.  Lay  on  the  top  of  it  five  or  six  poached 
eggs- 

Potatoes,  Puree  of. 

BOIL  the  pared  potatoes  in  very  good  stock ;  rub  them 
through  a  tamis,  and  add  a  little  sauce  tournay. 

SANDWICHES. — Shrimps. 

Pur  a  layer  of  potted  shrimps,  between  two  slices  of  bread 
and  butter,  and  with  a  mould  cut  them  into  shapes. 

Lampreys. 
To  be  made  as  directed  for  shrimps. 

Lobsters  and  Anchovies. 
To  be  made  as  directed  for  shrimps. 

Beef,  Ham,  Chicken,  Veal,  Game,  fa. 
To  be  made  as  directed  for  shrimps. 


MADE  DISHES.  131 

Cold  Meat. 

TAKE  equal  quantities  of  butter  and  grated  Cheshire  cheese, 
and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  mustard,  beat  the  whole  in  a 
mortar,  and  having  spread  it  upon  thin  slices  of  bread,  lay 
on  it  thin  slices  of  cold  meat,  cover  with  bread,  and  cut  into 
shapes  with  a  mould. 

Cheshire  Sandwich. 

TAKE  anchovies,  Cheshire  cheese,  and  butter,  in  equal  pro- 
portions ;  made  mustard  to  the  palate;  pound  well  in  a  marble 
mortar,  and  with  this  composition  spread  thin  slices  of  bread, 
and  cover  with  thin  slices  of  any  kind  of  cold  meat,  and  again 
with  bread,  &c.  :  cut  into  shapes. 


/,  with  gravy. 

CUT  two  chickens  into  pieces,  and  fry  gently  in  butter, 
strewing  over  them  at  the  same  time  three  table  spoonsful  of 
curry  powder:  have  ready  fried  six  large  onions  chopped 
small  ;  put  these  with  the  chickens  and  a  pint  of  veal  stock 
into  a  stewpan  ;  cover  closely,  and  stew  gently  till  tender: 
just  before  serving  up,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  As  curry 
is  generally  eaten  with  rice,  the  East  India  mode  of  dressing 
it  is  subjoined  : 

Rice. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  Patna  rice,  wash  it  in  salt  and  water  j 
strain  and  put  it  into  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  ;  let  it  boil 
twenty  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  colander  ;  set  the  co- 
lander before  the  fire  for  the  rice  to  dry,  and  when  perfectly 
so,  shake  the  colander  over  the  dish,  so  that  every  grain  of  rice 
may  be  separated.  Carolina  rice  will  require  a  pint  more 
water. 

Curry  )  without  gravy. 

HAVING  cut  a  chicken  into  pieces,  take  a  table  spoonful  of 
curry  powder,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  turmeric,  mix 
together  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  water,  add  a  clove  of  garlic 
finely  shred,  and  beat  them  well  ;  add  a  little  salt  and  water, 
and  rub  part  of  this  mixture  over  each  piece  of  the  chicken  : 
put  a  large  piece  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  hold  it  over 
the  fire  till  completely  melted,  and  having  sliced  a  large  onion, 
put  together  with  the  chicken  into  the  melted  butter,  and  fry 
till  thoroughly  done  :  before  serving  up.  add  a  little  lemon- 
juice. 

K2 


132  MADE  DISHES. 


Curry  of  Pork,  Mutton,  Giblets,  Lobsters,  and  Prawns, 
A.Uf.  made  in  either  of  the  ways  above  described. 

Burdwan,  Indian,  to  be  dressed  at  table. 

CUT  up  a  boiled  fowl,  and  put  it  into  a  pan  over  a  lamp, 
with  three  table  spoonsful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  three  table 
spoonsful  of  madeira,  a  little  water,  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  a  large  onion  shred  fine,  cayenne  and  salt :  stew  till  the 
onions  are  tender. 

Burdwan,  English,  to  be  dressed  at  table. 

TAKE  either  cold  rabbit,  fowl,  veal,  or  lamb,  and  having 
cut  it  into  pieces,  put  it  into  a  pan  over  a  lamp,  with  as  much 
good  gravy  as  will  cover  it :  add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
Hour,  an  onion  shred  fine,  two  spoonsful  of  .essence  of  an- 
chovy, a  glass  of  port  wine,  cayenne  and  salt :  stew  slowly  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Brado  Fogado. 

HAVING  picked  and  washed  some  spinach  very  clean,  put  it 
into  a  stewpan  without  water;  when  enough,  squeeze  the 
liquor  from  it.  Shred  some  onions,  and  fry  them  in  butter  : 
put  to  the  spinach,  a  pint  of  shrimps  cleared  from  the  shell, 
or  the  tail  of  a  large  lobster  shred  small,  a  table  spoonful  of 
curry  powder,  a  little  water,  and  salt:  stir  well  together,  adding 
the  fried  onions,  and  let  the  whole  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
without  burning. 

A  Solama-gundy. 

TAKE  a  handful  of  parsley,  two  pickled  herrings,  four  boiled 
eggs,  both  yolks  and  whites,  and  the  white  part  of  a  roasted 
chicken.  "  Chop  them  separately,  and  exceedingly  small. 
Take  the  lean  of  some  boiled  ham  scraped  fine,  and  turn  a 
china  bason  upside  down  in  the  middle  of  a  dish.  Make  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  the  shape  of  a  pine-apple,  arid 
set  it  on  the  bason's  bottom.  Lay  round  your  bason  a  ring  of 
shred  parsley,  then  a  ring  of  yolks  of  eggs,  then  whites,  then 
ham,  then  chickens,  and  then  herrings,  till  you  have  covered 
your  bason,  and  disposed  of  all  the  ingredients.  Lay  the 
bones  of  the  pickled  herrings  upon  it,  with  their  tails  up  to 
the  butter,  and  let  their  heads  lie  *on  the  edge  of  the  dish. 
Lay  a  few  capers,  and  three  or  four  pickled  oysters  round  the 
dish. 


MADE  DISHES.  133 


Maccaroni. 

HAVING  boiled  four  ounces  of  maccaroni  till  quite  tender, 
lay  it  on  a  sieve  to  drain,  and  then  put  it  into  a  tossing-pari, 
with  ahout  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Boil  it  five  minutes,  pour  it  on  a  plate,  lay  Parmesan  cheese 
all  over  it,  brown  with  a  salamander,  and  send  it  up  on  a  water- 
plate. 

Omelettes. 

BEAT  six  eggs,  strain  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put 
them  into  a  frying-pan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  hot  but- 
ter. Throw  in  a  little  boiled  ham  scraped  fine,  a  little  shred 
parsley,  and  season  with  pepper, .  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Fry  it 
brown  on  the  under  side,  and  lay  it  on  your  dish,  but  do  not 
turn  it.  Hold  a  hot  salamander  over  it  for  half  a  minute,  to 
take  off  the  raw  look  of  the  eggs. 

Omelette  of  Asparagus. 

BEAT  up  six  eggs  with  cream,  boil  some  of  the  largest  and 
finest  asparagus,  and  when  boiled  cut  off  all  the  green  in  small 
pieces.  Mix  them  with  the  eggs,  and  put  in  some  pepper 
and  salt.  Make  a  slice  of  butter  hot  in  a  pan,  put  them  in,  and 
serve  them  on  buttered  toast. 

Ramequins. 

BRUISE  in  a  stewpan  a  piece  of  Parmesan  or  mild  Cheshire 
cheese,  with  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  a  very  little  salt,  and  an  anchovy  minced  very 
fine.  Let  it  all  boil,  and  put  as  much  flour  as  the,  sauce  re- 
quires to  thicken  it.  Let  it  dry  upon  a  slow  fire,  until  it  be- 
comes like  thick  batter.  Then  put  it  into  another  stewpan, 
and  beat  up  as  many  eggs  as  the  butter  can  bear  without  be- 
coming too  liquid,  for  it  should  be  rather  stiff'.  Serve  in 
square  papers,  pinched  up  at  the  four  corners,  and  lay  them 
on  a  tin,  which  you  must  put  into  the  oven  until  they  become 
of  a  fine  yellow  brown  :  then  serve. 


1 34  FRUGAL  DISHES. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 


FRUGAL    DISHES. 

Bee/  and  Cabbage. 

V^UT  the  cabbage  in  slices  as  for  pickling,  and  having  rubbed 
the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot  with  butter,  put  in  layer  of  cabbage, 
either  white  or  red,  seasoned  with  white  pepper ;  on  this  place 
a  piece  of  salted  beef,  cover  it  with  the  remainder  of  the 
cabbage,  and  over  the  whole  pour  a  quart  of  boiling  water  : 
cover  the  pot  close,  and  let  the  whole  stew  gently  till  enough  : 
a  piece  of  bacon  may  be  added  if  approved  of. 

Leg  of  Beef— (See  Plate.) 

WITH  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  all  the  meat,  leaving  the  gristly 
part  fast  to  the  bone :  saw  the  bone  into  several  pieces,  and 
put  them  with  three  gallons  of  water,  six  onions,  four  carrots, 
sweet  herbs,  two  leeks,  a  little  allspice,  salt,  and  black  pepper, 
into  an  iron  pot  to  stew  over  the  fire  all  night :  in  the  morning 
ski  in  off  the  fat,  and  having  cut  the  meat  into  thick  slices,  fry 
it  a  nice  brown  with  a  part  of  the  fat  thus  skimmed  ;  the  re- 
mainder will  make  good  pie  crust.  In  the  same  pan  fry  six 
large  onions ;  put  these  and  the  slices  of  meat,  together  with  a 
xjuart  of  table  beer,  into  the  pot  with  the  liquor  of  the  bones, 
adding  more  onions,  carrots,  turnips,  &c. :  let  the  whole  stew 
gently  eight  hours  ;  take  up  the  meat,  and  strain  the  liquor 
over  it. 

Pepper  Pol. 

To  one  gallon  of  water,  take  three  pounds  of  neck  of  mut- 
ton and  a  pound  of  pickled  pork;  to  these  add,  in  summer, 
pease,  spinach,  lettuce,  onions,  and  sweet  herbs;  in  winter, 
carrots,  turnips,  celery,  onions,  and  sweet  herbs :  put  the 
whole  into  a  pot,  and  when  boiling,  skim  it ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  stew  gently  till  enough.  A  pepper-pot 
may  be  made  with  a  variety  of  things,  observing  a  proper  pro- 
portion of  each. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

TAKE  any  cold  meat,  bones,  &c. ;  add  carrots,  onions,  tur- 
nips, celery,  pepper,  and  salt :  put  these  with  a  proper  pro- 
portion of  water  into  a  pot ;  stew  gently  four  or  five  hours  ; 


FRUGAL  DISHES.  135 

strain  off  the  bones,  vegetables,  &c.  ;  and  adding  fresh  vege- 
tables cut  in  the  form  of  a  dice ;  simmer  till  tender,  and 
serve. 

Cold  roasted  Beef,  different  modes  of  dressing. 

HAVING  cut  the  beef  into  very  thin  slices,  season  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  very  little  ground  allspice  ;  to  these  add  a  hand- 
ful of  parsley,  and  an  onion,  shred  small :  put  these  into  a 
small  saucepan :  take  the  bones  of  the  meat,  break  them  small, 
put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  an  onion,  carrot,  thyme,  and 
other  sweet  herbs,  all  shred,  and  draw  a  little  good  gravy : 
strain  this  gravy  into  the  saucepan  with  the  meat,  adding  a 
giJI  of  table  beer  and  a  a  spoonful  of  vinegar :  let  it  simmer 
very  gently  a.  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  previously  well  beaten :  serve  immediately. 

Or,  having  made  the  gravy  as  in  the  former  receipt,  cut  the 
meat  and  fat  into  rather  thicker  slices,  dredge  them  with 
flour,  and  fry  of  a  nice  brown:  chop  an  eschalot  and  an- 
chovy, put  them  into  a  small  saucepan,  and  add  the  fried  beef, 
and  the  gravy  strained  upon  it,  season  with  pepper  and  salt; 
let  the  whole  simmer  very  gently  till  thoroughly  hot:  add  two 
spoonsful  of  vinegar,  ana  serve. 

Or,  having  prepared  the  gravy  as  before  directed,  cut  the 
meat  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  four  inches  square ;  on 
these  spread  a  forcemeat  of  grated  bread,  cold  fat,  eschalot, 
and  an  anchovy,  all  shred  fine  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
roll  them  up,  tie  with  tape  or  string,  and  put  them  into  a 
saucepan,  pouring  on  them  the  drawn  gravy,  and  stewing  very 
gently  till  tender. 

Or,  having  prepared  the  gravy  as  above,  mince  the  beef 
with  an  onion,  anchovy,  pepper,  and  salt ;  add  a  little  gravy, 
and  put  the  meat  into  escalop  shells,  or  saucers,  till  three 
parts  full ;  fill  the  remaining  part  with  mashed  potatoes,  and 
put  them  into  an  oven,  or  Dutch  oven,  to  brown. 

Or,  having  prepared  the  gravy  as  above,  mince  the  meat, 
and  add  to  it  grated  bread,  onion,  anchovy,  parsley,  and 
lemon-peel,  all  shred  very  fine  ;  put  these  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  bit  of  butter  to  warm,  stir  all  well  together  ;  let  it  cool, 
and  make  into  balls  with  yolk  of  egg,  strewing  grated  bread 
over  them  :  fry  of  a  nice  brown,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little 
flour,  strain  it  on  the  dish,  and  serve  the  balls  upon  it. 

Beef  a  la  Vinaigrette. 

CUT  slices  of  undone  cold  boiled  beef  about  two  inches 
thick,  and  stew  in  a  gill  of  water,  a  gill  of  vinegar,  and  a  gill 
of  table  beer :  to  these1  add  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  fag-. 


136  FRUGAL  DISHES. 

got  of  sweet  herbs,  and  having  seasoned  to  the  palate,  stew 
till  the  liquor  is  nearly  consumed,  and  turning  it  once.  When 
cold,  skim  off  the  fat,  strain  the  liquor,  adding  a  little  vinegar 
to  it,  and  serve  with  the  beef. 

Ox  Heart, 

HAVING  cut  off  the  deaf  ears,  wash  them,  and  put  them 
Into  a  saucepan  with  an  onion  stuck  with  four  cloves,  two 
large  onions  sliced,  a  carrot  sliced,  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and 
salt :  set  these  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  stew  for  gravy  :  \vash 
and  wipe  the  heart  clean,  stuff  it  with  forcemeat  made  of 
grated  bread,  suet  shred,  parsley  and  thyme  chopped,  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt :  skewer  up  the  holes  that  the 
stuffing  may  not  come  out,  and  roast  gently  for  an  hour  and 
an  half;  or  bake  it :  strain  the  gravy  over  it,  and  serve. 

Ox  Cheek. 

HAVING  boned  and  washed  the  cheek  clean,  tie  it  up  like  a 
rump  of  beef,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  water 
and  a  pint  of  table  beer  ;  when  it  boils,  skim  it,  and  add  two 
carrots  cut  in  pieces,  a  turnip,  two  large  onions  sliced,  and 
one  stuck  with  two  cloves,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  pepper 
and  salt :  let  the  cheek  stew  till  nearly  done,  take  it  up,  strain 
the  liquor,  return  it  into  the  same  stewpan,  adding  half  a  gill 
of  ketchup,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  white  pepper  and  salt  to  the 
palate;  put  in  the  cheek ;  and  having  stewed  till  tender,  serve 
with  the  gravy. 

Bubble  and  Squeak. 

TAKE  cold  boiled  cabbage  or  greens  of  any  kind,  and  having 
chopped  them,  add  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  fry  all 
together,  and  keep  warm  in  a  dish  before  the  fire:  fry  some 
slices  of  underdone  beef  slightly,  and  serve  upon  the  fried 
cabbage. 

Coifs  Liver  roasted. 

HAVING  washed  and  wiped  the  liver,  cut  a  long  hole  in  it, 
and  fill  with  a  forcemeat  of  grated  bread,  an  anchovy  chopped, 
fat  bacon  chopped,  swe-et  herbs  and  an  onion  finely  shred,  a 
bit  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper:  sow  up  the 
hole,  and  having  covered  the  liver  with  a  caul,  roast  it  gently  : 
serve  with  gravy  made  from  bones  of  any  kind,  with  an  onion, 
sweet  herbs,  a  gill  of  table  beer,  and  the  same  of  water ;  all 
well  stewed,  and  strained  over  the  liver. 


FRUGAL  DISHES.  137 


Liver  and  Lights. 

TAKE  an  equal  quantity  of  liver  and  lights,  and  boil  them  ; 
cut  them  into  mince,  adding  a  few  spoonsful  of  the  liquor  they 
were  boiled  in,  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  salt,  pepper, 
a  little  ketchup,  and  a  spoonful  of  vinegar :  let  the  whole 
simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  on  sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

Pickled  Mackard  or  Caveach.  , 

HAVING  cleaned  the  mackarel,  divide  them  along  the  back, 
and  fry  them  in  oiled  butter  of  a  nice  brown:  when  cold, 
lay  them  in  a  large  pot,  and  cover  them  with  boiling  vinegar, 
prepared  in  the  following  manner  :  take  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  vinegar,  and  put  into  it  pepper,  allspice,  a  few  cloves,  and 
a  blade  of  mace,  all  beaten  to  powder ;  let  the  whole  boil  till 
the  goodness  is  extracted  from  the  spices,  add  salt  to  the  pa- 
late, and  strain  over  the  fried  mackarel. 

China  Chilo. 

MINCE  a  pound  of  raw  mutton  with  a  little  of  its  fat,  add  two 
onions  and  a  lettuce  sliced,  a  pint  of  green  pease,- half  a  gill 
of  water,  three  ounces  of  clarified  butter,  season  with  white 
pepper  and  salt,  and  simmer  gently  in  a  stewpan  closely  co- 
vered, for  two  hours  :  serve  in  the  middle  of  a  dish  of  plain 
boiled  rice. 

N.  B.  When  the  rice  is  boiled,  pour  it  into  a  colander,  let 
it  remain  till  all  the  water  is  run  off,  and  lightly  shake  it  into 
the  dish,  so  that  every  grain  may  appear  separated  from  the 
rest. 

Calf's  Liver,  Bacon,  Eggs,  and  Herbs. 

TAKE  two  large  handfuls  of  green  parsley,  one  of  green 
onions,  and  chop  them  together  very  small ;  clean  and  drain 
a  good  quantity  of  spinage,  and  having  put  it  into  a  stewpan, 
sprinkle  it  in  layers  with  the  chopped  onions  and  parsley  : 
add  a  little  butter,  white  pepper,  and  salt ;  let  the  whole  stew 
very  gently  ;  and  when  done,  serve  in  the  middle  of  the  dish, 
with  fried  liver,  bacon,  and  eggs  alternately. 

Haddocks  and  Whitings,  to  dry  and  dress. 

CHOOSE  the  largest,  and  having  taken  out  the  gills,  eyes, 
and  entrails,  remove  the  blood  from  the  back  bone  :  wipe 
dry,  and  put  salt  into  the  eyes  and  bellies ;  lay  them  on  a  board 


138  FRUGAL  DISHES. 

for  a  night,  hang  them  up  in  the  chimney  corner,  and  in  three 
days  they  will  be  fit  to  dress  in  the  following  manner  :  take 
oft  the  skin,  rub  them  over  with  yolk  of  egg.  strew  grated 
bread  over  them,  put  them  into  a  Dutch  oven,  oaste  with  but- 
ter, and  serve  with  egg  sauce. 
* 

Pig's  Harslet. 

WASH  and  dry  some  liver,  pig's  sweetbreads,  and  fat  and 
lean  pieces  of  meat,  trimmed  from  the  chine,  or  hams  ;  season 
with  white  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  an  onion,  shred  fine;  mix 
all  together,  and  having  sewed  them  in  the  pig's  caul,  roast 
by  a  string  before  the  fire :  serve  with  gravy  made  from  the 
bones,  onion,  sweet  herbs,  &c. 

Herrings  to  dry  and  dress. 

CLEAN  and  lay  them  in  salt  and  a  little  saltpetre  for  one 
night :  run  a  stick  through  their  eyes,  and  let  its  ends  rest 
upon  the  sides  of  a  wide  cask,  into  which  you  have  previously 
put  some  sawdust ;  on  the  sawdust  drop  a  red-hot  heater, 
and  let  the  herrings  be  thus  smoked  twenty-four  hours ;  they 
are  best  dressed  in  the  following  manner  :  pour  over  them  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  boiling  table  beer,  in  which  let  them 
soak  for  half  an  hour  :  drain  them  dry,  put  them  on  a  toast- 
ingfork  before  the  fire  till  they  are  hot  through,  and  serve  with 
egg  sauce,  or  butter  and  mustard. 

Hatch  Patch. 

TAKE  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  a  scrag  of  mutton,  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  three  pints  of  water,  four  large  onions 
fried,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  quart  of  pease,  two 
lettuces,  and  four  whole  onions;  season  with  white  pepper 
and  salt,  and  stew  gently  till  perfectly  tender. 

Or  take  bones  of  any  sort,  add  to  them  the  vegetables  as 
above,  and  when  they  have  stewed  an  hour  and  a  half,  take 
out  the  bones,  and  add  some  fried  mutton,  lamb,  or  beef- 
steaks fried :  let  these  stew  gently  half  an  hour,  and  serve. 

Jugged  Hare. 

HAVING  skinned  and  cleaned  an  old  hare,  cut  it  up  in  pieces, 
and  season  them  with  kitchen  pepper,  common  pepper,  and 
salt ;  lay  these  in  a  jar  with  some  sweet  herbsj  three  onions 
with  a  clove  in  each,  and  two  spoonsful  of  ketchup  and  vine- 
gar :  tie  the  jar  with  a  bladder,  put  a  little  hay  in  the  bottom 
of  a  saucepan,  in  which  place  the  jar,  and  pour  in  water  till 
it  is  as  high  as  the  neck  :  let  the  saucepan  boil  for  five  hours, 


FRUGAL  DISHES.  139 

filling  it  up  as  the  water  wastes :  take  up  the  pieces  of  hare, 
place  them  in  a  deep  dish  ;  strain  the  gravy,  and  thicken  it 
with  flour  and  butter,  and  serve  over  the  hare. 

Soy,  English,  for  .Roasted  Meat,  Poultry,  and  Fish. 

TAKE  green  walnuts  as  for  pickling,  cut  them  in  pieces,  and 
pound  in  a  mortar ;  squeeze  all  the  juice  through  a  sieve,  and 
to  every  pint  of  it,  put  a  pound  of  anchovies :  boil  till  the  an- 
chovies are  dissolved,  and  strain  through  a  sieve  :  boil  again, 
adding  eight  e^cfaiots  shred,  three  clones  of  garlic,  allspice, 
and  whok-  pepper ;  after  these  have  boiled  a  short  time,  add  a 
pint  of  vinegar,  and  a  bottle  of  strong  stale  ale  or  beer:  boil 
till  the  esctiaiots  are  tender ;  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  when 
cold,  bottle  for  use  in  small  bottles. 

Pilchard  or  Herring,  and  Leek  Pie. 

CUT  the  white  part  of  some  large  leeks,  wash  them  in  cold 
water,  drain  them,  and  having  scalded  them  in  milk  and 
water,  put  a  la-er  of  them  into  the  dish,  and  upon  them  either 
salted  pilchards  or  herrings,  which  have  soaked  for  a  day  in 
water  :  upon  these  place  another  layer  of  the  cut  leeks;  cover 
with  a  plain  crust  (see  PicsJ,  and  when  baked,  raise  the  side 
crust,  pour  off  the  liquor,  and  through  the  same  hole  pour 
half  a  pint  of  scalded  cream. 

Marrow  Bones. 

Having  sawed  off  both  ends  of  the  bone,  tie  a  piece  of  clean 
rag  dipped  in  boiling  water  and  floured  over  each,  put  into 
boiling  water,  and  when  enough,  serve  in  the  middle  of  a 
dish,  with  dry  toast  round  it. 

Ox  Cheek. 

CLEANSE  a  cheek  the  day  before  using  it,  and  let  it  soak 
all  night  in  salt  and  water  ;  wipe  clean  and  put  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  two  quarts  of  water,  and  a  quart  of  table  beer :  after 
it  has  boiled  up,  skim  it  well,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  two 
hours,  skimming  it  frequently  :  then  add,  six  onions  cut  in 
slices  and  fried  brown  with  flour,  four  large  onions  with  a 
clove  in  each,  three  turnips  cut  in  quarters,  two  carrots,  two 
leeks  also  cut,  pepper  and  salt :  let  it  slew  till  perfectly  ten- 
der ;  take  out  the  cheek,  keep  it  hot,  strain  the  gravy,  and 
xvhen  cold,  take  off  the  fat ;  heat  the  gravy  afresh,  and  serve 
in  a  tureen  or  bowl,  with  the  cheek  in  it. 


14O  FRUGAL  DISHES. 


Cow  Heels. 

BOIL  till  tender,  (save  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in  and 
use  it  in  making  soup),  and  serve  with  melted  butter,  mus- 
tard and  vinegar  ;  or  parsley  and  butter. 

Or,  having  cut  the  heel  into  four  parts,  dip  them  in  yolk  of 
egg,  strew  grated  bread  over  then),  and  fry  of  a  nice  brown* 
in  dripping :  fry  sliced  onions,  lay  them  in  the  middle  of  the 
dish,  and  the  heel  round  it. 

Herrings  baked. 

GUT,  wash,  and  drain  the  herrings  without  wiping  them  ; 
rub  them  over  with  saltpetre,  and  let  them  lie  all  night 
on  a  board.  Having  put  them  into  an  earthen  pan,  sprinkle 
them  over  with  povvdered  allspice,  black  pepper,  and  salt ; 
cover  them  over  with  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  table  beer, 
adding  t\vo  whole  onions  with  two  cloves  in  each,  and  a  few 
bay-leaves:  cover  the  pan  with  paper,  and  having  tied  it 
down,  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven. 

Sprats  baked. 

SPRATS  are  done  in  the  same  manner  as  herrings,  but  they 
do  not  require  gutting. 

Beef  Steaks  stewed. 

FRY  the  steaks  of  a  nice  brown,  with  an  onion  sliced  ;  pour 
on  them  half  a  pint  of  table  beer,  half  a  pint  of  water,  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  pepper  and  salt: 
let  them  stew  in  the  pan  very  gently  for  half  an  hour;  take 
up  the  steaks,  and  having  thickened  the  gravy  with  a  bit  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  strain  over  the  steaks. 

Irish  Stew. 

CUT  a  piece  of -the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton  into  thin 
chops;  pare  a  sufficient  quantity  of  unboiled  potatoes,  and  cut 
them  also  into  thin  slices  ;  shred  four  large  onions,  and  take  a 
stewpan,  on  the  bottom  of  which  lay  a  row  of  clean  skewers, 
on  these  place  a  layer  of  steaks  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  pptatoes  and  shred  onions,  and  so 
alternately  till  the  whole  is  put  in ;  add  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  and  stew  gently  for  an  hour. 

Alamode  Beef. 

TAKE  either  of  the  following  pieces  of  beef,  thick  flank, 
shoulder- of-mutton  piece,  clod,  veiny  piece ;  and  take  a  deep 


SAUCES.  141 

tin  pot  that  will  rather  more  than  hold  the  beef,  cover  the 
bottom  with  clean  skewers,  and  put  upon  them  four  large 
onions  fried  a  nice  brown  ;  put  in  the  beef,  sprinkling-  it  with 
powdered  allspice,  four  cloves  powdered,  black  pepper  and 
salt ;  add  one  turnip,  two  heads  of  celery  and  three  carrots, 
all  cut  small ;  fill  up  the  pot  with  one  part  of  table  beer  and 
two  parts  of  water,  cover  it  very  close,  and  let  it  stew  gently 
ten  hours. 

Potatoe  Salad. 

THE  potatoes  being  boiled  and  skinned,  cut  them  into  thin 
slices,  and  pour  over  them  the  sauce  usually  eaten  with  com- 
mon salads,  adding  a  little  essence  of  anchovy,  or  anchovy 
liquor. 

Soup  for  the  Poor. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  lean  beef  cut  into  small  pieces,  half  a 
pint  of  split  pease,  two  ounces  of  rice  or  Scotch  barley,  four 
potatoes  pared  and  sliced,  two  onions  cut  in  quarters,  pepper 
and  salt  to  the  palate:  put  these  into  a  stone  jar  with  nine  pints 
of  water,  and  bake  for  three  hours. 

Or,  take  the  skimmings  of  the  pot  in  which  meat  of  any 
kind  is  boiled;  to  this  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  liquor, 
together  with  half  a  pint  of  split  pease,  two  onions  shred  small, 
two  leeks  washed  and  cut,  turnips,  carrots,  and  sweet  herbs  ; 
let  the  whole  boil  half  an  hour,  and  add  four  onions  shred 
small,  and  fried  in  dripping  or  fat  of  any  kind:  let  them  sim- 
mer half  an  hour,  and  put  into  each  jug  or  bowl  some  slices  of. 
cold  potatoes  previously  fried,  pouring  the  soup  over  them. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 


SAUCES. 

Beef  Slock. 

XIAVING  cut  lean  beef  into  pieces,  put  it  into  a  pot  with  suf- 
ficient water  to  cover  it :  let  it  boil,  and  when  boiling  skim  it 
well,  adding  a  faggot  of  parsley  and  thyme,  carrots  scraped, 
leeks,  onions,  (in  winter,  turnips),  celery,  and  a  little  salt;  let 
the  whole  stew  till  tender,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve 
into  broad  shallow  pans,  not  containing  more  than  four  quarts 
each  :  let  the  fat  remain  on  the  top  till  vranted,  as  it  excludes 
air,  and  preserves  the  stock. 


142  SAUCES. 


Second  Beef  Stock  • 

Is  made  by  adding  half  the  quantity  of  water  put  in  at  first, 
to  the  beef  and  vegetables  from  which  the  first  stock  has  been 
drawn. 

Veal  Stock. 

TAKE  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  some  lean  ham,  free  from  all 
rancidity  ;  and  having  cut  the  meat  into  pieces,  put  it  into  a 
pot  with  three  pints  of  water,  carrots,  (in  winter  turnips), 
onions,  leeks,  and  celery  :  stew  the  whole  till  tender,  taking 
care  that  it  do  not  contract  any  degree  of  colour  ;  add  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  second  beef  stock,  stew  for  one  hour  lon- 
ger; skim  off  all  the  fat,  and  strain  into  pans.  Game  added 
to  the  above  will  greatly  improve  its  flavour. 

Clear  Brown  Stock. 

TAKE  three  quarts  of  veal  stock,  perfectly  free  from  fat, 
adding  a  small  quantity  of  browning  to  make  it  of  a  good 
colour:  season  with  cayenne  and  salt;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  whisk  them  with  some  of  the  stock :  let  it  boil 
gently  for  a  few  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve. 

Jelly  Stock. 

PUT  four  calves  feet  with  four  quarts  of  second  stock  into  a 
stewpan ;  boil  gently  for  four  hours,  strain  through  a  tamis, 
and  when  cold  scrape  off  the  fat :  when  used,  season  with 
cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon  juice. 

Fish  Stock. 

CLEAN  and  cut  two  eels,  two  tench,  and  two  carp  into  thin 
pieces  ;  put  these  into  a  large  stewpot,  together  \vith  any  fish 
bones  that  may  be  left  from  fillets  ;  add  eight  heads  of  celery, 
a  faggot  of  thyme  and  parsley,  four  blades  of  mace,  one 
dozen  umvashed  anchovies,  one  dozen  onions,  and  a  pint  of 
water :  set  on  a  slow  stove,  and  draw  down  for  two  hours, 
when  the  stewpot  will  be  nearly  dry ;  but  take  care  not  to 
burn  :  aciJ  six  quarts  of  second  stock;  boil  gently  for  three 
hours,  and  strain  through  a  tamis.  Plaice,  soles,  &c.  will  do 
as  well  as  carp  and  tencn. 

Glaizetfor  Poultry,  Larding,  Hams,  Kc. 

TAKE  a  leg  of  veal,  lean  of  ham,  beef,  a  couple  of  indif- 
ferent fowls,  a  small  quantity  of  celery,  turnips,  carrots,  onions, 


SAUCES.  143 

leeks,  all  cut  in  pieces  ;  a  little  lemon-peel,  mace,  and  black 
pepper  :  put  all  these  into  a  large  stewpot  with  three  quarts 
of  second  stock,  and  sweat  them  down  till  three  parts  done  : 
cover  the  whole  with  second  stock,  and  boil  till  all  the  good- 
ness is  extracted  :  skim  and  strain  into  a  large  pan  :  when 
cold,  take  off  the  fat  very  clean,  set  it  in  a  stewpan  over  the 
fire,  and  when  warm,  clear  it  with  whites  and  a  few  yolks  of 
eggs  ;  add  a  little  browning,  and  strain  through  a  tamis  : 
return  it  into  a  clean  stewpan,  and  boil  quickly  till  reduced  to 
a  glaze,  taking  care  it  do  not  burn. 

Glaize  of  Herbs 

MAY*be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  from  each  herb  sepa- 
rately ;  in  order  to  extract  the  essence  of  each,  and  to  ren- 
der them  portable  ;  but  the  different  glaizes  must  be  pre- 
served in  bottles  closely  stopped  down. 


Consume,  or  Essence  o 

Is  made  by  reducing  veal  stock  to  a  thick  consistence, 
taking  care  not  to  burn  it. 

Coulis. 

TAKE  slices  of  veal  and  ham,  add  celery,  (in  winter,  turnips), 
carrots,  onions,  leeks,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  allspice,  mace, 
and  a  little  shred  lemon-peel  :  put  all  these  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  quart  of  second  beef  or  veal  stock,  and  draw  them  down 
to  a  light  colour,  taking  care  not  to  let  them  burn  :  add  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  beef  stock  to  cover  the  whole,  and  when 
boiling  skim  it,  and  thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  flour  or  pass- 
ing :  let  it  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour  ;  season  with  cay- 
enne, salt,  and  lemon-juice:  strain  through  a  tamis,  and  add 
a  little  browning  to  make  it  of  a  good  colour. 

Browning  for  Sauces,  Sfc. 

PUT  into  a  clean  fryingpan  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good 
brown  sugar,  and  half  a  gill  of  water  ;  set  over  a  gentle  fire, 
stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  burnt  of  a  fine  brown  :  when  it 
boils,  skim  it  well,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  water  ;  strain,  and 
put  by  in  a  covered  pot  for  use. 

Passing  of  Butter. 

MELT  fresh  butter  in  a  stewpan  over  the  fire;  and  when 
melted,  shake  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  flour  with  a  dredger 
to  make  it  into  a  paste,  mix  well  together,  and  whisk  over  a 
very  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes, 


144  SAUCES. 

To  melt  Butter  in  the  best  way. 

LET  the  cook  have  a  plated  saucepan  for  this  purpose,  into 
which  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  with  two  tea- 
spoonsrul  of  cream  :  shake  the  pan  over  a  clear  fire  one  way, 
till  the  butter  is  completely  melted. 

Royal  Sauce  (broken). 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  lean  Westphalia  ham  free  from  all 
rancidity,  a  chicken  cut  in  pieces,  six  eschalots  shred  fine,  a 
faggot  of  parsley,  and  two  or  three  blades  of  mace  ;  put  all 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  stock  to  draw  it  down,  then  add  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  coulis ;  strain  through  a  tamis,  and  sea- 
son with  cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon  juice. 

Royal  Sauce  (white) . 

DRAW  the  sauce  with  the  same  materials  as  those  in  the 
former  receipt ;  and  instead  of  adding  coulis,  use  bensha- 
melle. 

Benshamelle  Sauce. 

TAKE  white  veal,  lean  ham,  turnips,  celery,  onions  shred,  a 
blade  of  mace,  and  a  little  whole  pepper ;  sweat  them  down 
over  a  very  gentle  heat  till  three  parts  tender,  and  add  beef 
stock  :  when  it  boils  skim  it  clean,  and  thicken  it  with  pass- 
ing, adding  cream  enough  to  make  it  quite  white,  and  of  the 
thickness  of  light  batter:  let  it  simmer  gently  half  an  hour,  and 
strain  through  a  tamis. 

Italian  Sauce  (brown) — Sauce  Italienne. 

MINCE  a  slice  of  lean  ham  very  fine,  put  it  together  with  a 
few  chopped  truffles  and  eschalots  into  a  stewpan,  adding  a 
little  stock,  and  a  glass  of  madeira  :  let  it  simmer  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  season  with  cayenne,  salt,  lemon  juice,  a  dust  cf 
sugar,  little  browning,  and  a  few  drops  of  garlic  vinegar ; 
strain  through  a  tamis. 

Italian  Sauce  (white) — Sauce  Italienne. 

PROCEED  as  above  directed  till  the  ingredients  have  sim- 
mered a  quarter  of  an  hour  :  add  benshamelle  to  make  up  the 
requisite  quantity,  and  let  this  simmer  a  minute  :  strain 
through  a  tamis,  and  season  with  white  pepper,  salt,  lemon 
juice,  a  dust  of  sugar,  and  a  few  drops  of  garlic  vinegar. 


SAUCES;  145 


German  Sauce,  or  Sauce  Allemande. 

PUT  a  little  minced  ham  into  a  stewpan,  and  a  few  trim* 
tilings  of  poultry,  dressed  or  undressed;  four  eschalots,  a 
small  clove  of  garlic,  a  bay-leaf,  two  tarragon- leaves,  and  a 
few  spoonsful  oi  stock  :  let.  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour  ; 
strain  thiough  a  tamis,  return  into  a  clean  stewpan,  and  add 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  coulis  to  make  up  the  requisite  quan- 
tity, give  it  a  boil,  and  season  with  cayenne,  salt,  a  dust  of 
sugar,  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Spanish  Sauce — Sauce  Espagnole. 

SLICE  four  large  onions,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 
a  little  vinegar,  half  a  pint  of  sherry,  two  slices  of  ham  shred 
small,  a  htnall  qlove  of  garlic,  a  truffle  chopped,  two  eschalots 
shred,  a  bay-leaf,  three  blades  of  mace,  and  half  a  pint  of 
coulis :  boil  all  slowly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  rub  through  a 
tamis  ;  season  with  cayenne  and  salt,  and  squeeze  in  a  little 
lemon  juice, 

Flemish  Sauce — Sauce  Flammande. 

BOIL  a  sprig  of  thyme,  two  eschalots,  and  a  bit  of  lemon- 
peel^a  few  minutes  in  a  gill  of  stock;  strain  through  a  tamis  j 
return  into  a  clean  stewpan,  adding  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
coulis,  season  with  cayenne,  salt,  a  oust  of  sugar,  and  lemon 
juice ;  let  it  boil  a  minute. 

Dutch  Sauce — Sauce  Hollandoise. 

HAVING  sliced  an  onion,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little 
scraped  horse-radish,  two  anchovies,  a  little  elder  vinegar,  and 
a  gill  of  second  stock  :  boil  for  ten  minutes,  strain  through  a 
tamis  ;  return  into  a  clean  stewpan,  and  having  made  a  liaison 
of  eggs,  add  it  gradually  to  the  sauce,  let  it  get  hot. 

Sauce  Tcurnaif* 

COVER  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  with  clean  skewers,  and 
lay  a  layer  of  Jean  ham  upon  them ;  cover  them  with  a  fowl 
cut  up,  and  a  pound  of  lean  veal :  add  a  faggot  of  thyme  and 
parsley,  a  few  onions,  three  blades  of  mace,  arid  a  pint  of  veal 
stock  :  let  these  stew,  till  the  stock  is  nearly  reduced,  and  fill 
up  again  with  veal  stock,  letting  it  boil  an  hour:  strain  through 
a  tamis,  and  when  cold,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  return  into  a 
clean  stewpan  with  a  passing,  adding  a  few  mushrooms ;  let 
these  simmer,  put  in  a  pint  more  veal  stock,  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  and  strain  through  a  tamis. 

L 


146  SAUCES. 


2ueen's  Sauce — Sauce  a  la  Reine. 

CUT  up  a  fowl,  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham,  six  eschalots, 
and  three  blades  of  mace  :  put  all  these  into  a  stewpan,  with 
half  a  pint  of  stock,  and  let  them  s  mmer  a  quarter  of  an 
hour :  add  three  pints  of  stock,  boil  for  half  an  hour,  and 
strain  through  a  tamis  into  a  clean  stewpan :  add  a  passing 
and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  again  strain 
through  a  tamis  j  season  with  white  pepper  and  salt. 

Ravigot  Sauce. 

PUT  into  a  stewpan  a  gill  of  stock,  adding  a  small  clove  of 
garlic,  a  little  burnet,  tarragon,  eschalot  chopped,  mushrooms, 
truffles  and  parsley  shred  fine  ;  let  them  simmer  a  few  mi- 
nutes, and  add  as  much  coulis  as  is  requisite  for  the  quan- 
tity; rub  through  a  tamis,  season  with  cayenne,  salt,  a  dust  of 
sugar,  and  lemon  juice. 

Poivrade  Sauce. 

SHRED  twelve  eschalots,  adding  to  them  a  gill  and  a  half 
of  vinegar,  a  spoonful  of  consume,  half  a  spoonful  of  essence 
of  anchovy,  cayenne  and  salt:  boil,  and  serve  hot  if  for  hot 
meat ;  if  for  cold,  boil,  and  let  it  get  cold. 

Piquant  Sauce  for  hot  Poultry  or  Meat. 

PUT  four  shred  eschalots  into  a  stewpan,  and  season  with 
salt,  adding  half  a  gill  of  stock  ;  let  it  simmer  till  the  stock  is 
consumed,  taking  care  not  to  burn  it :  add  as  much  coulis  as 
there  is  required  of  sauce,  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  season 
with  cayenne,  salt,  a  dust  of  sugar,  a  few  drops  of  garlic 
vinegar,  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Hash  Sauce — Sauce  Hachis. 

CUT  a  few  mushrooms,  onions,  pickled  cucumbers,  pickled 
walnuts  having  the  black  skin  scraped  off,  and  carrots,  into 
dice ;  boil  them  in  a  little  stock,  till  it  comes  to  a  glaze ;  add 
the  requisite  quantity  of  coulis,  and  let  it  boil  up. 

Robert  Sauce. 

TAKE  a  gill  of  coulis,  a  bay-leaf,  an  onion  sliced,  a  blade  of 
mace,  a  little  made  mustard,  and  a  gill  of  Rhenish  wine :  boil 
all  together  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  strain  through  a  tamis  ;  re- 
turn into  a  clean  stewpan,  and  reduce  it  till  half  is  consumed. 


SAUCES.  147 

Sauce  Piquant  for  cold  Meat. 

BONE  two  anchovies,  and  after  pounding  them  in  a  marble 
mortar,  add  two  table-spoonsful  of  salad  oil,  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  made  mustard  ;  mix  well  together,  adding  two  eschalots 
and  a  little  parsley  shred  very  fine,  season  with  white  pepper, 
cayenne,  salt,  and  vinegar  to  the  palate. 

Russian  Sauce  for  cold  Meat. 

TAKE  grated  horse-radish,  four  spoonsful;  made  mustard, 
two  tea-spoonsful ;  salt,  one  salt  spoonful ;  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  ;  vinegar,  sufficient  to  cover  the  ingredients. 

Sauce  for  a  Goose. 

TAKE  a  table-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  half  a  tea-spoonful 
of  cayenne,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  three  spoonsful  of 
port  wine;  mix  well  together,  heat  over  a  lamp,  and  pour  quite 
hot  into  the  goose  through  a  slit  in  the  apron. 

Hachis  Sauce  mellee. 

TAKE  the  breast  of  a  cold  roasted  or  boiled  fowl,  two  eggs 
boiled  hard,  pickled  cucumbers,  capers,  eschalots,  parsley 
and  lean  ham, all  chopped  small;  add  to  them  coulis,  and  two 
spoonsful  of  mushroom  ketchup :  let  them  simmer  half  an 
hour. 

tipple  Sauce,  for  Pork,  Geese ,  fife. 

PARE,  quarter  and  core,  baking  apples ;  and  having  put 
them  into  a  stewpan,  add  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  a  few 
cloves,  a  bit  of  lemon  rind,  and  a  small  quantity  of  water ;  cut 
a  piece  of  white  paper  to  fit  the  stewpan,  press  it  down  close 
on  the  apples,  put  on  the  cover,  and  simmer  gently  till  the 
apples  are  tender :  take  out  the  peel  and  spices ;  add  a  bit  of 
fresh  butter,  sugar  to  the  palate,  and  beat  fine  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

Gravy  for  Poultry,  Meat,  and  Steaks. 

CUT  slices  of  lean  beef,  lean  ham,  and  veal ;  pare  onions, 
turnips,  carrots,  and  celery ;  cut  them  small,  adding  a  faggot 
of  parsley  and  thyme,  a  little  mace  and  whole  pepper,  and  a 
few  spoonsful  of  water  :  having  put  them  into  a  stewpan, 
sweat  them  over  a  gentle  fire,  till  the  liquor  is  of  a  light  brown : 
add  stock,  and  a  little  browning,  season  with  salt,  and  let  it 
simmer  till  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done ;  strain  through  a 
tamis,  and  when  cold,  skim  off  the  fat. 

L  2 


148  SAUCES. 


Green  Sauce,  for  Green  Geese,  Ducklings,  Kc. 

WASH  sorrel,  and  having  bruised  it  in  a  marble  mortar ; 
strain  the  juice  through  a  tamis  :  add  a  little  loaf  sugar,  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten  with  it,  and  a  spoonful  of  vinegar 
to  every  gill  of  the  juice;  let  it  barely  simmer,  stirring  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  and  serve. 

Or  having  picked  green  spinach,  wash  and  bruise  it  in  a 
mortar,  and  strain  the  liquor  through  a  tamis  :  to  every  gill  of 
the  juice,  add  a  little  lump  sugar,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  two 
table-spoonsful  of  the  pulp  of  gooseberries  rubbed  through  a 
sieve  :  let  them  simmer,  &c.  as  above. 

Bread  Sauce,  for  Game,  Turkeys,  Kc. 

SOAK  grated  bread  in  half  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream  ;  add  a 
small  onion;  set  them  over  the  fire,  stirring  with  a  wooden 
spoon  till  all  the  milk  is  taketi  up:  take  out  the  onion,  add  two 
ounces  of  fresh  butter,  white  pepper  and  salt  to  the  palate  ; 
beat  all  very  fine,  and  serve  hot. 

Essence  of  Ham  for  Sauces. 

TAKE  four  pounds  of  raw  but  lean  Westphalia  ham  ;  put 
it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  water,  six  peeled  eschalots,  and 
two  bay-leaves  :  cover  the  pan  closely,  and  simmer  till  three 
parts  done ;  add  two  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  till  tender  : 
strain  through  a  fine  sieve^  and  when  cold  skim  off  all  the  fat : 
return  it  into  a  clean  saucepan,  and  when  warm,  clear  it  with 
whites  of  eggs  :  strain  through  a  tamis;  return  it  into  a  stew- 
pan,  and  boil  till  reduced  to  a  pint:  when  cold,  put  it  into 
snuali  bottles,  and  cork  them  close. 

Liaison  or  Leason,  for  Fricassees,  Kc. 

TAKE  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a 
little  salt,  mixed  well  together  :  simmer,  and  mix  as  directed 
in  the  different  receipts. 

Lemon  Sauce  for  Fowls,  Kc. 

HAVING  pared  two  lemons,  cut  them  into  very  small  pieces 
of  the  shape  of  dice ;  and  take  the  liver  and  scalded  parsley 
chopped  fine:  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  adding  boiling  ben- 
shatnelle  and  a  little  melted  butter  :  simmer  for  a  minute  or 
two. 


SAUCES.  149 


Marinate. 

TAKE  a  little  stock,  salt,  whole  pepper,  vinegar,  onions 
sliced,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  few  bay-leaves,  and  a  little  thyrne  : 
boil  all  together,  and  strain  through  a  tamis. 

Onion  Sauce. 

HAVING  boiled  the  onions,  take  of?  two  coats  from  the  out- 
sides  ;  chop  the  remainder  quite  smooth,  and  add  them  to 
fresh  butter  melted  with  a  little  good  cream:  season  \rith  salt 
and  white  pepper,  and  simmer  till  quite  hot. 

Queen  Sauce  of  Chicken. 

To  half  a  pint  of  boiling  veal  stock,  add  two  ounces  of 
grated  French  bread,  two  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds  blanched 
and  pounded  very  fine;  also  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  the  white  meat  of  a  fowl  cut  and  pounded  ;  let  these 
all  simmer,  and  rub  them  through  a  tamis  :  add  a  little  cream 
and  season  to  the  palate,  making  it  quite  hot  when  put  over 
the  chickens,  &c, 

French  Olive  Sauce. 

STONE  the  olives,  and  stew  in  veal  stock  till  tender,  and  the 
^liquor  nearly  reduced ;  season  with  cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon 
juice. 

Sweet  Sauce  for  Venison,  Mutton,  Kc. 

TAKE  half  a  gill  of  coulis,  two  spoonsful  of  vinegar,  a  gill 
of  port  wine,  an  onion  boiled  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  a 
little  pounded  cinnamon,  and  lump  sugar  to  the  palate  •  Jet 
the  whole  boil,  and  serve  hot. 

Truffle  Sauce  for  Turkeys,  S£c. 

HAVING  cleaned  and  pared  green  truffles,  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  pint  of  beef  stock,  and  stew  them  gently : 
when  the  liquor  is  almost  reduced,  add  a  well  seasoned  conlis, 
and  serve  hot. 

Sauce  for  Wild  Ducks,  Kc. 

TAKE  a  gill  of  stock,  the  same  of  port  wine,  two  eschalots 
shred,  a  blade 'of  mace,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  cayenne,  and 
salt :  let  these  simmer  ten  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  tamis. 


150  SAUCES. 


Stock  Sauce. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  white  wine,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and 
put  them  into  a  stone  jar :  take  five  large  anchovies,  some 
whole  Jamaica  pepper,  ginger  sliced,  mace,  cloves,  lemon 
peel,  sliced  horse-radish,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a  few  sliced 
eschalots,  two  spoonsful  of  capers  and  a  little  of  the  liquor  ; 
and  having  tied  these  all  loosely  in  a  muslin  bag,  put  into  the 
jar  with  the  wine,  stop  it  close,  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  for  an  hour,  and  keep  in  a  vrarm  place.  In  a  month 
this  sauce  will  be  fit  for  use,  and  a  spoonful  is  a  great  improve- 
ment to  any  other  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Roast  Meat. 

WASH  an  anchovy  very  clean,  and  put  to  it  a  glass  of  red 
wine,  a  little  strong  stock,  grated  nutmeg,  an  eschalot  chop- 
ped, and  Ihe  juice  of  a  Seville  orange  ;  let  these  stew  gently 
five  minutes,  and  strain  to  the  gravy  that  runs  from  the  meat. 

Sauce  for  Pies. 

TAKE  some'veal  stock,  one  anchovy,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
and  a  little  mushroom  liquor ;  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  add  half  a  glass  of  claret, 
and  pour  through  a  funnel  into  the  pie. 

Lemon  Sauce  (white). 

PARE  a  lemon,  and  having  cut  it  into  slices,  pick  out  the 
seeds,  and  chop  very  small ;  boil  the  liver  of  a  fowl,  and  with 
a  spoon  rub  it  through  a  sieve ;  mix  these  in  a  little  veal  stock, 
and  add  a  liaison  (see  Sauces}  :  season  with  white  pepper  and 
salt. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

HAVING  chopped  some  pickled  mushrooms,  add  three  spoons, 
ful  of  veal  stock,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg  ;  let  them  simmer  a 
few  minutes,  and  add.  melted  butter. 

Parsley  Sauce. 

TAKE  some  parsley  seed,  and  having  bruised  it,  tie  it  in  a 
linen  rag,  and  boil  ten  minutes  in  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pint 
of  water  :  take  out  the  seed,  and  reserve  the  water.  Take  as 
much  of  the  water  as  is  wanted,  and  to  it  add  butter  and  flour  ; 
melt  together,  and  add  a  little  finely  chopped  spinach. 


SAUCES.  151 


Sauce  for  cold  Chicken,  Partridge,  or  Veal. 

Two  anchovies  boned,  washed,  and  chopped ;  shred  pars- 
ley, a  small  onion  or  eschalot  chopped ;  white  pepper,  oil, 
vinegar,  mustard,  mushroom  and  walnut  ketchup:  mix  well 
together. 

Quirts  Fish  Sauce. 

HALF  a  pint  of  walnut  pickle,  half  a  pint  of  mushroom 
pickle,  six  anchovies  pounded,  six  others  whole,  a  glass  of 
white  wine,  three  blades  of  mace,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
cayenne :  let  it  stand  a  fortnight  or  longer,  and  strain  into 
small  bottles  for  use. 

Quill's  Game  or  Meat  Sauce. 

PUT  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  with  two  onions, 
two  eschalots,  and  a  clove  of  garlic  sliced  ;  the  outward  parts 
of  a  caiTot  and  parsnip,  a  bay-leaf,  thyme,  basil,  and  two 
cloves  :  shake  ovef the  fire  till  it  begins  to  colour,  and  add  a 
dust  of  flour,  a  glass  of  port,  half  a  pint  of  strong  stock,  and 
a  spoonful  of  vinegar  :  boil  half  an  hour  ;•»  skim  off  the  fat, 
strain  through  a  tamis,  and  season  with  cayenne  and  salt :  boil 
again,  and  strain  over  the  meat. 

Egg  Sauce. 

SHRED  hard-boiled  eggs  very  fine,  and  add  them  to  butter 
melted  in  a  little  good  cream. 

Sauce  for  Fish  Pies  (with  cream}. 

HAVING  chopped  an  anchovy  very  small,  dissolve  it  in  hajf 
a  gill  of  veal  stock  ;  to  these  add  a  gill  of  good  cream,  and  a 
little  passing ;  let  them  simmer  till  quite  hot,  and  pour  in 
through  a  funnel. 

Keeping  Fish  Sauce. 

TAKE  a  gill  of  mountain  wine,  a  pint  of  port,  half  a  pint 
of  walnut  ketchup,  a  gill  of  walnut  pickle,  twelve  anchovies 
and  their  liquor,  the  rind  and  juice  of  a  fine  lemon,  six 
eschalots  shred  small,  three  ounces  of  grated  horse-radish, 
two  tea-spoonsful  of  made  mustard,  three  blades  of  mace, 
three  cloves,  cayenne  and  salt :  let  these  all  boil  till  half  con- 
sumed ;  strain  through  a  tamis,  and  when  cold,  put  in  small 
bottles  corked  and  sealed. 


159  SAUCES. 


Sauce  for  Fish  Pies  (without  cream}. 

TAKE  equal  quantities  of  Lisbon  wine,  vinegar,  oyster  liquor, 
and  mushroom  ketchup ;  with  these,  boil  a  chopped  anchovy 
till  dissolved :  strain  through  a  tamis,  and  pour  into  the  pie. 

Essence  of  Anchovies. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  anchovies ;  put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  two  quarts  of  water,  two  bay-leaves,  a  little  whole  pep- 
per, scraped  horse-radish,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  two  blades  of 
mace,  six  eschalots  shred  small,  a  gill  of  port  wine,  a  gill  of 
mushroom  ketchup,  and  half  the  rind  of  a  lemon  :  boil  for  half 
an  hour,  strain  through  a  tamis, and  when  cold,  put  the  essence 
into  small  bottles,  corking  them  well,  and  keeping  them  in  a 
dry  place. 

Fennel  Sauce. 

TAKE  green  fennel,  mint,  and  parsley,  a  little  of  each;  wash 
them  clean,  and  having  boiled  them  tender,  chop  all  fine  j 
add  them  to  butter  melted  with  a  little  cream,  and  when  quite 
hot,  add  two  spoonsful  of  green  gooseberries  scalded  and 
pulped  through  a  sieve:  serve  immediately,  as  the  herbs  lose 
their  colour  by  standing  in  the  butter, 

Lobster  Sauce. 

TAKE  the  meat  and  spawn  of  a  large  lobster,  and  having 
cut  it  into  small  pieces,  pound  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  and  rub 
through  a  tamis  cloth  :  melt  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  with 
half  a  pint  of  good  cream,  in  this  put  the  pulp,  and  thicken 
with  a  passing:  when  it  simmers,  season  with  essence  of  an- 
chovy, lemon  juice,  cayenne  and  salt. 

Crab  Sauce 

MAY  be  prepared  as  above  directed  for  lobsters  ;  the  inside 
being  pounded  with  the  meat. 

Oyster  Sauce,  for  Fish. 

HAVING  blanched  the  oysters,  strain,  and  preserve  their 
liquor:  wash,  drain,  and  beard  them;  putting  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  fresh  butter,  and  their  liquor  (free  from  any 
sediment) :  let  them  warm,  when  add  a  passing ;  let  these 
simmer,  stirring  one  way  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  season 
with  cayenne,  salt,  essence  of  anchovy,  a  little  lemon  juice| 
apd  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup. 


SAUCES,  153 


Oyster  Sauce  (white),  for  Fish. 

BLANCH  large  oysters  till  half  done,  strain  and  preserve  the 
liquor :  beard,  wash,  and  drain  the  oysters ;  and  put  their 
liquor  free  from  sediment  into  a  stevvpan  with  two  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  half  a  pint  of  good  cream,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel, 
and  a  blade  of  mace;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  nearly 
boiling,  mix  a  passing  to  thicken  it:  season  with  cayenne, 
salt,  and  lemon  juice,  and  strain  through  a  hair  sieve  upon 
the  oysters  previously  put  into  another  stewpan :  let  them 
simmer  gently  five  minutes. 

Oyster  Sauce,  for  Steaks. 

BLAXCH  a  pint  of  .oysters,  and  having  preserved  their 
liquor  ;  wash,  beard,  and  drain  them,  putting  their  liquor  (free 
from  sediment,  into  a  stewpan  with  a  spoonful  of  soy,  and 
ketchup  :  to  these  add  a  gill  of  coulis,  a  bit  of  horse-radish, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter :  when  near  boiling 
thicken  with  a  passing,  season  with  cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon 
juice:  strain  through  a  sieve  to  the  oysters,  and  stew  gently 
five  minutes. 

Shrimp  Sauce. 

HAVING  picked,  washed,  and  drained  the  shrimps,  put 
their  shells  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  gill  of  water  and  a  blade  of 
mace :  let  them  simmer  till  all  the  flavour  is  extracted  from 
them ;  and  strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve  into  another  stevv- 
pan containing  fresh  butter,  anchovy  essence,  lemon  juice, 
cayenne,  and  salt :  shake  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  flour  to 
thicken,  bring  it  to  boil,  and  skim  it:  put  in  the  shrimps, 
and  let  them  simmer  five  minutes. 

Anchony  Sauce. 

HAVING  put  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  into  a  stewpan, 
with  three  spoonsful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  of  mushroom  and 
walnut  ketchup,  each  a  spoonful  ;  soy,  a  tea-spoonful  ;  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  cayenne,  and  passing,  to  thicken ;  boil  toge- 
ther, and  skim  clean. 

Celery  Sauce  (brown). 

HAVING  cut  celery  heads  three  inches  long,  blanch  them, 
and  drain  off  the  water  ;  adding  a  sufficient  quantity  of  stock 
to  boil  them  in  till  tender:  when  the  liquor  is  nearly  reduced, 
coulis  well  seasoned,  and  simmer  till  hot. 


154  SAUCES. 


Celery  Sauce  (white J. 

PROCEED  as  above  till  the  celery  is  tender  ;  and  add  ben- 
sham  el  le. 

Carrot  Sauce. 

HAVING  cut  the  red  part  of  a  large  carrot  into  small  dice, 
boil  in  stock  till  it  comes  to  a  glaze  ;  then  add  couiis. 

Chervil  Sauce. 

PICK  a  large  handful  of  chervil  leaves,  and  having  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  stock  ;  stew  till  the  stock  is  almost 
reduced :  add  couiis  sufficient  for  the  quantity,  a  little  ma- 
deira, lemon  juice,  and  a  dust  of  sugar. 

Cucumber  Sauce. 

HAVING  pared  the  cucumbers,  cut  them  into  quarters,  cut- 
ting out  all  the  seeds,  and  dividing  each  quarter  into  four 
pieces :  take  as  many  small  onions  as  pieces  of  cucumbers, 
and  put  them  together  with  the  cucumber  into  vinegar,  salt, 
and  water,  for  two  hours  :  drain  them,  and  put  into  astewpan 
with  as  much  stock  as  will  cover  them,  boiling  them  down  to 
a  glaze;  add  couiis  sufficient  to  make  the  quantity  of  sauce. 

Eschalot  Sauce. 

HAVING  shred  six  eschalots,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
little  stock,  letting  them  simmer  till  tender;  add  a  little  couiis, 
and  season  with  lemon  juice,  and  a  dust  of  sugar. 

Puree  of  Potatoes. 

HAVING  pared  some  mealy  potatoes,  boil  them  in  stock,  and 
rub  them  through  a  tamis,  adding  some  tournay,  and  a  little 
salt. 

Tarragon  Sauce 
Is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  chervil  sauce. 

Turnip  Sauce. 

HAVING  pared  four  turnips,  sweat  them  with  a  little  water 
till  they  are  done;  rub  them  through  a  tamis,  and  add  a  small 
quantity  of  benshamelle. 

Sorrel  Sauce. 

HAVING  chopped  four  large  handfuls  of  picked  sorrel,  put 
it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  slice  of 


SAUCES.  155 

ham,  and  two  onions  shred:  let  these  gently  simmer  in  the 
juice  of  the  sorrel  for  tefl  minutes  ;  add  a  gill  of  stock,  and 
simmer  half  an  hour  longer :  rub  all  through  a  tamis,  add  a 
little  coulis  to  it,  and  season  with  cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon 
juice. 

Haricot  Roots. 

HAVING  scooped  an  equal  quantity  of  turnips  and  carrots,, 
peel  as  many  button  onions :  put  on  the  carrots  to  boil  in 
stock,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the  onions  and  turnips,  and 
having  boiled  them  to  a  glaze,  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
coulis,  for  the  sauce  required. 

Salad  Sauce. 

TAKE  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  boiled  hard,  a  dessert  spoonful 
of  Parmesan  cheese,  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  des- 
sert spoonful  of  tarrogan  vinegar,  and  a  spoonful  of  ketchup : 
when  well  mixed  together,  add  four  spoonsful  of  salad  oil, 
and  having  made  it  unite  with  the  former  ingredients,  add  one 
spoonful  of  elder  vinegar. 

Or,  take  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  add  a  salt-spoonful  of 
powdered  lump  sugar,  mix  together,  and  add  by  degrees  four^ 
spoonsful  of  salad  oil,  mixing  it  very  well  the  whole  time  :  to 
these  put  best  vinegar  and  salt,  to  the  palate. 

Brown  Braise. 

CUT  some  beef  suet,  and  trimmings  of  any  kind  of  meat,  and 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  four  onions,  a  faggot  of  thyme, 
parsley,  basil,  and  marjoram  ;  two  blades  of  mace,  a  carrot 
cut  in  slices,  six  heads  of  celery,  a  few  bay-leave*,  a  bit  of 
butter,  and  a  little  stock  :  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  draw  down 
for  half  an  haur,  fill  it  up  with  second  stock,  and  add  a  little 
white  wine  to  it. 

White  Braise. 

TAKE  part  of  the  udder  of  veal,  and  having  put  it  into 
cold  water,  make  it  boil ;  take  it  out,  put  it  into  cold  water 
for  a  few  minutes,  take  it  out  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  put- 
ting them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  butter,  onions,  a  fag- 
got of  thyme  and  parsley,  a  pared  lemon  cut  in  thin  slices,  a 
few  blades  of  mace,  and  a  spoonful  of  water :  set  over  a  very 
gentle  fire,  stirring  for  a  few  minutes  ;  then  add  a  little  white 
stock. 

Forcemeat  hot,  or  Farce. 

TAKE  veal  free  from  sinews  and  gristle,  cut  it  into  small 
pieces-,  as  much  fat  of  ham,  or  bacon  ;  half  as  much  marrow, 


156  SAUCES. 

or  beef  suet;  put  these  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  bit  of 
butter  in  the  bottom,  season  with  parsley,  thyme,  mushrooms, 
truffles,  and  eschalots  all  very  finely  shred,  cayenne,  white 
pepper,  and  salt ;  put  it  over  the  fire,  add  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg, and  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  the  juice  of  the  meat 
begins  to  draw;  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  ten  minutes; 
put  it  to  cool,  and  when  cold,  beat  the  whole  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar till  very  fine. 

Cold  Forcemeat, for  Sails,  Kg. 

TAKE  the  same  ingredients  as  above  directed,  and  having 
well  beaten  them  in  a  mortar,  add  yolk  of  egg  and  grated 
bread,  sufficient  to  make  into  balls. 

Turtle  Herbs,  to  preserve. 

TAKE  basil,  pot  marjoram,  orange  thyme,  lemon  thyme, 
common  thyme,  parsley  four  times  the  quantity  of  the  other 
herbs  ;  let  them  dry  gradually  in  a  warm  dry  place,  and  rub 
them  through  a  hair  sieve,  preserving  them  in  a  wide-mouthed 
bottle,  closely  corked. 

Mushroom  Powder. 

DRY  the  mushrooms  whole,  set  them  before  the  fire  to 
crisp  ;  grind,  and  sift  the  powder  through  a  fine  sieve,  pre- 
serving it  in  small  bottles,  closely  corked. 

Mushroom  Ketchup. 

TAKE  mushrooms,  and  having  cut  off  part  of  the  stalk  to- 
wards the  root,  wash  them  clean,  drain,  and  then  bruise  them 
a  little  in  a  marble  mortar  ;  and  having  put  them  into  an 
earthen  pan,  cover  them  with  a  moderate  quantity  of  salt, 
letting  them  remain  for  four  days  :  strain  through  a  tamis 
cloth,  and  pour  off  the  clear  liquor  into  a  stewpan  ;  to  every 
pint  of  juice  add  half  a  gill  of  port  wine,  a  little  whole  alf- 
spice,  cloves,  mace,  pepper,  and  cayenne  :  boil  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  skim  and  strain  the  ketchup,  and  when  cold, 
put  it  into  small  bottles,  closely  corked. 

Curry  Powder. 

TAKE  mustard  seed,  scorched  and  finely  powdered,  one 
ounce  and  a  half;  coriander  seed  in  powder,  four  ounces  ; 
turmeric  in  powder,  four  ounces  and  a  half;  black  pepper  in 
powder,  three  ounces ;  lesser  cardamoms  in  powder,  one 
ounce  ;  ginger  in  powder,  half  an  ounce  ;  cinnamon  in  po\v- 


SAUCES.  157 

der,  one  ounce  ;  cloves  in  powder,  half  an  ounce ;  mace  in 
powder,  half  an  ounce ;  mix  all  the  powdered  ingredients 
well  together,  and  keep  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  closely 
stopped. 

Camp  Vinegar. 

CHOP  a  large  head  of  garlic  fine,  and  put  into  a  wide- 
mouthed  bottle,  with  half  an  ounce  of  cayenne,  a  spoonful  of 
soy,  two  spoonsful  of  walnut  ketchup,  four  anchovies  chopped, 
a  pint  of  vinegar,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  cochineal  to  give 
it  a  good  colour;  let  it  stand  six  weeks,  strain  through  a'tamis, 
and  keep  in  smati  bottles,  closely  corked. 

Kitchen  Pepper. 

TAKE  ginger,  one  ounce;  cinnamon,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce; 
black  pepper,  Jamaica  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  half  an  dunce 
of  each  ;  ten  cloves,  and  six  ounces  of  salt,  all  finely  pow- 
dered :  keep  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  closely  stopped. 

Spices 

SHOULD  each  be  finely  powdered,  and  kept  in  separate 
bottles,  with  glass  stoppers. 

Walnut  Ketchup. 

HAVING  put  any  quantity  of  walnuts  into  jars,  cover  them 
with  cold  best  vinegar,  and  tie  them  close  for  twelve  months: 
take  out  the  walnuts  from  the  vinegar,  and  to  every  gallon  of 
the  liquor  put  two  heads  of  garlic,  half  a  pound  of  anchovies, 
a  quart  of  red  wine,  and  of  mace,  cloves,  long,  black,  and 
Jamaica  pepper,  and  ginger,  an  ounce  each  :  boil  them  all  to- 
gether till  the  liquor  is  reduced  to  half  the  quantity,  and  the 
next  day  bottle  it  for  use. 

Or,  take  green  walnuts  before  the  shell  is  formed,  and  grind 
them  in  a  crab-mill,  or  pqund  them  in  a  marble  mortar. 
Squeeze  out  the  juice  through  a  coarse 'cloth,  and  put  to  every 
gallon  of  juice  a  pound  of  anchovies,  the  same  quantity  of 
bay-salt,  four  ounces  of  Jamaica  pepper,  two  of  long,  and  two 
of  black  pepper ;  of  mace,  cloves,  and  ginger,  each  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce,  and  a  stick  of  horse-radish.  Boil  all  together  till 
reduced  to  half  the  quantity,  and  put  it  into  a  pot.  When  cold, 
bottle  it,  and  in  three  months  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Lemon  Pickle. 

GRATE  off  very  thin  the  out-rinds  of  two  dozen  of  lemons, 
and  cut  the  lemons  into  four  quarters,  but  leave  the  bottoms 


158  .-i.U'CES. 

whole.  Rub  on  them  equally  half  a  pound  of  bay-salt,  and 
spread  them  on  a  large  earthen  dish.  Put  them  into  a  cool 
oven,  or  let  them  dry  gradually  by  the  fire,  till  all  the  juice 
is  dried  into  the  peels.  Then  put  them  into  a  well-glazed  jar, 
with  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves 
•  beat  fine,  an  ounce  of  nutmegs  cut  into  thin  slices,  four 
ounces  of  peeled  garlic,  and  half  a  pint  of  mustard  seed  a  little 
bruised,  and  tied  in  a  muslin  rag.  Pour  over  them  two  quarts 
of  boiling  white  wine  vinegar,  and  close  the  pitcher  up  well. 
Let  it  stand  by  the  fire  five  or  six  days,  shake  it  up  well  every 
day,  then  tie  it  up,  and  let  it  stand  three  months,  by  which 
time  it  will  lose  its  bitter  taste  :  strain  through  a  hair  sieve, 
press  them  well  to  get  out  the  liquor,  and  let  it  stand  another 
day.  Then  pour  off  the  fine,  and  bottle  it ;  let  the  other 
stand  three  or  four  days,  and  it  will  fine  itself.  Then  pour  off 
the  fine,  and  bottle  it ;  and  let  it  stand  again  to  fine,  and  thus 
proceed  till  the  whole  is  bottled. 

Garlic  Vinegar. 

TAKE  four  large  heads  of  garlic,  two  drams  of  mace,  four 
cloves,  and  a  quart  of  vinegar,  boil  for  half  an  hour,  and  stop 
close  in  ajar  for  a  month  :  strain  into  small  bottles. 

Eschalot  Vinegar. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  eschalots  peeled,  and  proceed  as  di- 
rected for  garlic. 

Mustard. 

TAKE  four  onions,  eight  eschalots,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  two 
ounces  of  grated  horse-radish,  and  a  spoonful  of  salt ;  boil  in 
a  pint  of  water  for  half  an  hour :  strain }  and  when  rather  more 
than  milk-warm,  mix  gradually  with  half  a  pound  of  best  flour 
of  mustard. 

Tomata  Sauce  (Love  Apple). 

TAKE  tomatas  when  ripe,  and  having  baked  them  till  soft, 
scoop  them  out  with  a  tea-spoon,  and  pulp  them  through  a 
sieve:  to  the  pulp  add  as  much  Chili  vinegar  as  \\ill  bring  it 
to  a  proper  thickness,  with  salt  to  the  taste:  to  each  quart,  add 
garlic  half  an  ounce,  and  eschalot  one  ounce,  both  sliced  very 
thin  ;  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  skimming  the  mixture 
well.  Strain,  and  when  quite  cold,  put  into  bottles,  letting 
them  stand  a  few  days  before  they  are  corked. 

Mock  Tomata  Sauce 

Is  made  by  substituting  sharp-tasted  apples  for  tomatas,  and 
after  baking  them,  colouring  the  pulp  with  turmeric,  so  as  to 
resemble  tomatas. 


SOUPS.  159 

Oyster  Ketchup  (brown). 

HAVING  opened  the  oysters,  save  the  liquor,  and'scald  them 
in  it ;  let  it  settle,  and  strain  through  a  tarnis;  add  to  it 
browning  sufficient  to  colour,  two  cloves,  two  blades  of  mace, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  whole  pepper,  a  little  salt,  cayenne, 
a  clove  of  garlic  sliced,  a  spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  and 
a  glass  of  port  wine :  boil  all  together  for  ten  minutes,  strain, 
and  when  cold,  put  into  small  bottles  well  corked. 

Oyster  Ketchup  (white) . 

TAKE  the  scalded  liquor  as  above,  add  a  glass,  of  sherry, 
lemon  juice  and  peel,  white  pepper,  mace,  and  nutmeg: 
boil  together  as  above. 

Cockle  Ketchup  (white  and  brown). 
TREAT  in  the  same  way  as  oysters. 


CHAPTER  XV. 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

I  AKE  great  care  that  your  pots?  saucepans,  and  covers,  are 
very  clean,  and  free  from  all  sand  and  grease,  and  that  they 
are  properly  tinned  ;  since,  if  this  be  not  cautiously  attended 
to,  your  soups  and  broths  will  not  only  acquire  a  bad  taste, 
but  become  pernicious  to  the  health  and  constitutions  of 
many.  When  you  make  any  kind  of  soup,  particularly  ver- 
micelli, portable  or  brown  gravy  soups,  or  any  other  soups 
that  have  herbs  or  roots  in  them,  be  sure  to  remember  to  lay 
your  meat  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  with  a  large  piece  of 
butter.  Then  cut  the  roots  and  herbs  small,  and  having  laid 
them  over  your  meat,  cover  your  pot  or  saucepan  very  close, 
and  keep  under  it  a  slow  fire,  which  will  draw  all  the  virtues 
out  of  the  vegetables,  turn  them  to  a  good  gravy,  and  give 
the  soup  a  very  different  flavour  from  what  it  would  have  by 
a  contrary  conduct.  When  your  gravy  is  almost  dried  up, 
replenish  it  with  water ;  and  when  it  begins  to  boil,  take  off 
the  fat,  and  follow  the  directions  given  you  for  the  particular 
kind  of  soup  or  broth  you  are  making.  Soft  water  will  suit 


1GO  SOUPS. 

your  purpose  best  in  making  old  peas  soup;  but  when  you 
make  soup  of  green  peas,  you  must  make  use  of  hard  water, 
as  it  will  the  better  preserve  the  colour  of  your  peas.  In  the 
preparation  of  white  soup,  remember  never  to  put  in  your 
cream  till  you  take  your  soup  off  the  fire,  and  the  last  thing 
you  do,  must  be  the  dishing  of  your  soups.  Gravy  soup  will 
have  a  skin  over  it  by  standing;  and  from  the  same  eause  peas 
soup  will  often  settle,  and  look  thin  at  the  top.  Lastly,  let 
the  ingredients  of  your  soups  and  broths  be  so  properly  pro- 
portioned, that  they  may  not  taste  of  one  thing  more  than 
another,  but  that  the  taste  be  equal,  and  the  whole  of  a  fine 
and  agreeable  relish. 

Soup  a  la  Reine. 

PUT  three  quarts  of  water  to  a  knuckle' of  veal  and  three 
or  four  pounds  of  beef,  with  a  little  salt,  and  when  it  boils, 
skim  it  well.  Then  put  in  a  leek,  a  little  thyme,  some  par- 
sley, a  head  pr  two  of  celery,  a  parsnip^  two  large  carrots, 
and  six  large  onions,  and  boil  all  together  till  the  goodness  is 
quite  out  of  the  meat :  strain  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  let  it 
stand  about  an  hour:  skim  it  well,  and  clear  it  off  gently  from 
the  settlings  into  a  clean  pan  :  boil  half  a  pint  of  cream,  pour 
it  on  the  crumb  of  a  halfpenny  loaf,  and  let  it  soak  well. 
Take  half  a  pound  of  almonds,  blanch  arid  beat  them  as  fine 
as  possible,  putting  in  now  and  then  a  little  cream  to  prevent 
their  oiling:  then  take  the  yolks  of  six  hard  eggs,  and  the 
roll  that  was  soaked  in  the  cream,  and  beat  them  all  together 
quite  fine :  make  your  broth  hot,  and  pour  it  to  your  almonds, 
strain  it  through  a  tamis,  rubbing  it  with  a  spoon  till  all  the 
goodness  is  gone  quite  through  into  a  stewpan  :  add  more 
cream  to  make  it  white,  and  set  it  over  the  fire.  Keep 
stirring  it  till  it  boils,  skim  off  the  froth  as  it  rises,  and  soak 
the  tops  of  French  rolls  in  melted  butter  In  a  stewpan  till  they 
are  crisp,  but  not  brown  :  take  them  out,  and  lay  them  on  a 
plate  before  the  fire ;  and,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
you  send  it  to  table,  take  a  little  of  the  hot  soup,  and  put  it 
to  the  rolls  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen.  Put  your  soup  on 
the  fire,  keep  stirring  it  till  it  nearly  boils,  and  then  pour  it 
into  your  tureen,  and  serve  it  up  hot.  Be  careful  to  take  otf 
all  the  fat  of  the  broth  before  you  pour  it  to  the  almonds,  or 
they  will  curdle  and  spoil  it. 

Soup  and  Bauillie. 

To  make  the  bouillie,  roll  five  pounds  of  brisket  cf  beef 
tight  with  a  tape ;  put  it  into  a  stewpot,  with  four  pounds  of 
the  leg  of  mutton  piece  of  beef,  and  about  seven  or  eight 


SOUPS.  161 

quarts  of  water.  Boil  these  up  as  quick  as  possible,  and  skim 
it  very  clean  ;  add  one  large  onion,  six  or  seven  cloves,  some 
whole  pepper,  two  or  three  carrots,  or  a  turnip  or  two,  a  leek 
and  two  heads  of  celery.  Stew  these  very  gently,  closely 
covered,  for  six  or  seven  hours.  About  an  hour  before  din- 
ner, strain  the  soup  through  a  tamis  cloth.  Have  ready  boiled 
carrots  cut  like  wheels,  turnips  cut  in  balls,  spinach,  a  little 
chervil  and  sorrel,  two  heads  of  endive,  and  one  or  two  of 
celery  cut  into  pieces.  Put  these  into  a  tureen,  with  a  Dutch 
loaf  or  a  French  roll  dried,  after  the  crumb  is  taken  out. 
Pour  the  soup  to  these  boiling  hot,  and  add  a  little  salt  and 
cayenne.  Take  the  tape  from  the  boullie,  and  serve  it  in  a 
separate  dish. 

Mutton  Broth. 

CUT  a  neck  of  mutton  of  about  six  pounds  into  two,  and 
boil  the  scrag  in  about  a  gallon  of  water.  Skim  it  well,  and 
put  in  a  little  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  and  a  good 
crust  of  bread.  Having  boiled  this  an  hour,  put  in  the  other 
part  of  the  mutton,  a  turnip  or  two,  a  few  chives  chopped 
fine,  and  a  little  parsley  chopped  small.  Put  these  in  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  your  broth  is  enough,  and  season 
with  salt.  A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  barley  or  rice  may  be 
added. 

Portable  Soup. 

THIS  is  a  very  useful  soup  for  travellers,  and  must  be  made 
thus:  cut  into  small  pieces  three  large  legs  of  veal,  one  of 
beef,  and  the  lean  part  of  half  a  ham.  Put  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  large  stewpot,  and  lay  in 
the  meat  and  bones,  with  four  ounces  of  anchovie^  and  two 
ounces  of  mace  ;  cut  off  the  green  leaves  of  five  or  six  heads 
of  celery,  wash  them  quite  clean,  and  cut  them  small.  Put 
in  these,  with  three  large  carrots  cut  thin,  and  cover  the 
stewpot  close.  Put  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  when  you 
find  the  gravy  begin  to  draw,  take  it  up  till  you  have  got  it 
all  out:  cover  the  meat  with  water,  set  it  on  the  fire  again, 
and  let  it  boil  four  hours  slowly  :  strain  through  a  tamis  into 
a  clean  stewpan,  and  let  it  boil  three  parts  away  :  strain  the 
gravy  drawn  from  the  meat  into  the  pan,  and  let  it  boil  gently 
till  of  the  consistence  of  glue,  observing  to  keep  skimming 
off  the  fat  clean  as  it  rises.  Great  care  must  be  taken,  when 
nearly  enough,  that  it  do  not  burn.  Season  it  to  your  taste 
with  cayenne,  and  pour  it  into  flat  earthen  dishes  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick.  Let  it  stand  till  the  next  day,  skim  off  all 
the  fat,  and  then  cut  it  out  by  round  tins  a  little  larger  than 

M 


162  SOUPS. 

a  crown  piece.  Lay  the  cakes  in  dishes,  and  set  them  in  the 
sun  to  dry,  and  be  careful  to  keep  turning  them  often.  When 
the  cakes  are  dry,  put  them  in  a  tin  hox,  with  writing-paper 
between  every  cake,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place.  This 
soup  should  be  made  in  frosty  weather.  By  pouring  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  on  one  cake,  and  a  little  salt,  it  will  make  a  good 
bason'of  broth ;  and  a  little  boiling  water  poured  on  it  will 
make  gravy  for  a  turkey  or  fowls.  It  possesses  one  valuable 
quality,  that  of  losing  none  of  its  virtues  by  keeping. 

Gravy  Soup. 

TAKE  a  shin  of  beef,  and  put  it  into  six  quarts  of  water, 
with  a  pint  of  peas,  and  six  onions  Set  it  over  the  fire,  and 
let  it  boil  gently  till  all  the  juice  is  out  of  the  meat:  strain 
through  a  sieve  ;  when  cold,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  return  into 
a  stewpan  to  reduce  to  half  the  quantity.  Season  to  your 
taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  in  a  little  celery  and  beet 
leaves,  arid  boil  till  tender. 

White  Soup. 

PUT  a  knuckle  of  veal  into  six  quarts  of  water,  with  a  large 
fowl,  a  pound  of  lean  bacon,  half  a  pound  of  rice,  two  an- 
chovies, a  few  pepper-corns,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  two 
or  three  onions,  and  three  or  four  heads  of  celery  cut  in  slices. 
Stew  ail  together,  till  the  soup  is  as  strong  as  you  would  have 
it,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  clean  earthen 
pot:  let  it  stand  all  night,  skim  oil  the  fat,  and  pour  it  into 
a  stewpan.  Put  in  half  a  pound  of  Jordan  almonds  beat  fine, 
simmer  a  little,  and  run  it.  through  a  tamis:  add  a  pint  of 
cream  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  send  it  up  hot. 

Soup  Maigre. 

MELT  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  shake  it 
well ;  when  it  is  done  hissing,  throw  in  six  middling-sized 
onions,  and  shake  the  pan  well  for  five  minutes:  put  in  four 
or  five  neads  of  celery  cut  small,  a  handful  or  t\vo  of  spinach, 
a  cabbage-lettuce,  and  a  bunch  cf  parsley,  all  cut  fine  ;  shake 
these  well  in  the  pan  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  stir  in  some 
fioiir.  and  pour  into  it  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  with  some 
stale  crusts  of  bread,  some  beaten  pepper,  and  three  or  four 
blades  of  mace  beat  fine :  stir  all  together,  and  let  it  boil 
sentry  for  half  an  hour.  Then  take  it  off,  beat  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  and  stir  them  in :  add  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  and 
pour  it  into  the  tureen. 

Or  take  a  quart  of  green  moratto  peas,  three  quarts  of 
soft  water,  four  onions  sliced;  floured  and  fried  in  fresh  but- 


SOUPS.  163 

ter,  the  coarse  stalks  of  celery,  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  and  a 
parsnip,  and  season  the  whole  with  pepper  and  mace  to  your 
taste.  Stew  all  these  verv  gently  together,  till  the  pulp  will 
force  through  a  sieve.  Have  ready  a  handful  of  beet-leaves 
and  root,  some  celerv  and  spinach,  which  must  be  first 
blanched  and  stewed  tender  in  the  strained  liquor.  Have 
ready  the  third  part  of  a  pint  of  spinach  juice,  which  must 
be  stirred  in  \\  ith  caution  when  the  soup  is  ready  to  be  served 
up,  and  not  be  suffered  to  boil  after  it  is  put  in,  as  that  will 
curdle  u:  add  a  crust  of  bread,  some  tops  of  asparagus,  and 
artichoke  bottoms. 

Scotch  Barley  Broth. 

CHOP  a  leg  of  beef  into  pieces,  and  boil  it  in  three  gallons 
of  water,  with  a  piece  of  carrot  and  a 'crust  of  bread,  till  it 
is  half  boiled  away  :  then  strain  it  off,  and  put  it  again  into 
the  po»-,  with  half  a  pound  of  barley,  four  or  five  heads  of 
celery  cut  small  and  washed  clean,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
large  onion,  a  ml  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine.  Let  this  boil 
an  hour,  and  take  a  large  fowl  clean  picked  and  washed,  and 
put  it  into  the  pot:  boil  it  till  the  broth  is  quite  good,  theii 
season  it  with  salt  to  your  taste.  Take  out  the  onion  and 
sweet  herbs,  and  send  it  to  table  with  the  fowl  in  the  middle: 
or  you  may  omit  the  fowl,  as  it  will  be  very  good  without  it. 

This  broth  is  sometimes  made  with  a  sheep's  head  instead 
of  a  leg  of  beef,  and  is  very  good;  but  in  this  case  you  must 
chop  the  head  all  to  pieces.  Six  pounds  of  the  thick  flank,  in 
six  quarts  of  water,  make  good  broth.  Put  in  the  barley 
with  the  meat,  first  skim  it  well,  and  boil  it  an  hour  very 
softly.  Then  put  in  the  above  ingredients,  with  turnips  and 
carrots  clean  scraped  and  pared,  and  cut  in  little  pieces.  Boil 
all  together  softly  till  the  broth  is  very  good :  then  season  with 
salt,  and  send  it  to  table  with  the  beef  in  the  middle,  turnips 
and  carrots  round,  and  pour  the  broth  over  all. 

Soup  au  Bourgeois. 

TAKE  twelve  heads  of  endive,  and  four  or  five  bunches  of 
celery;  wash  them  very  clean,  cut  then  into  small  bits,  let 
them  be  well  drained  from  the  water,  pnt  them  into  a.  large 
pan,  and  pour  upon  them  a  gallon  of  boiling  water:  set  ort 
three  quarts  of  beef  stock  in  a  large  saucepan  ;  strain  the  herbs 
from  the  water  very  dry:  when  the  gravy  boils,  put  them  in. 
Cut  off  the  crusts  of  two  French  rolls,  break  them  and  put 
into  the  rest.  When  the  herbs  are  tender,  the  soup  is 
enough.  A  boiled  fowl  may  be  put  into  the  middle,  but  it  is 


SOUPS. 


very  good  without.     If  a  white  soup  is,  liked  better,  it  must 
be  veal  stock,  with  the  addition  of  a  pint  of  cream. 

Soup  Lorraine. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  almonds  and  blanch  them,  and  beat  them 
in  a  mortar,  with  a  very  little  water  to  keep  them  from  oiling; 
put  to  them  all  the  white  part  of  a  large  roasted  fowl,  and 
the  yolks  of  four  poached  eggs:  pound  all  together  as  fine  as 
possible,  and  take  three  (marts  of  strong  veal  stock,  and  pour 
it  into  a  stewpun,  with  the  other  ingredients,  and  mix  them 
well  together:  boil  softly  over  a  stove  or  clear  fire,  and 
mince  the  white  part  of  another  fowl  very  fine.  Season  it 
with  pepper,  suit,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  beaten  mace.  Put  in 
a  bit  of  butter  of  the  size  of  an  eg^,  and  a  spoonful  or  two 
of  the  soup  strained,  ami  set  it  over  the  stove  to  be  quite 
hot.  Cut  two  French  rolls  into  thin  slices,  and  set  them  be- 
fore the  fire  to  crisp.  Then  take  one  of  the  hollow  rolls  which 
are  made  for  oyster  loaves,  and  fill  it  with  the  mince;  lay  on 
the  top  as  close  as  possible,  and  keep  it  hot.  Strain  the  soup 
through  a  tamis  into  a  clean  saucepan,  and  let  it  stew  till  of 
the  thickness  of  cream.  Put  the  crisped  bread  in  the  dish  or 
tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  it,  and  place  in  the  middle  of  it 
the  roll  with  the  mincemeat. 

Chesnut  Soup. 

PICK  half  a  hundred  of  chesnuts,  put  them  in  an  earthen 
pan,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour,  or  roast  them 
gently  over  a  slow  fire,  but  take  care  they  do  not  burn.  Then 
peel  them,  and  set  them  to  stew  in  a  quart  of  good  beef  stock 
till  quite  tender.  In  the  meantime,  take  a  piece  or  slice  of 
ham  or  bacon,  a  pound  of  veal,  a  pigeon  beat  to  pieces,  an 
onion,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  piece  of  carrot,  and  a 
little  pepper  and  mace.  Lay  the  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  a 
stewpan,  and  lay  the  meat  and  ingredients  on  it.  Set  it  over 
a  slow  fire  till  it  begins  to  stick  to  the  pan,  and  then  put  in  a 
crust  of  bread,  -and  pour  in  two  quarts  of  stock:  let  it  boil 
softly  till  one  third  is  wasted,  then  strain  it  off,  and  put  in  the 
chesnnts.  Season  with  suit,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  be  well  fla- 
voured: then  stew  two  pigeons  in  it,  and  a  F'rench  roll  fried 
erisp.  Lay  the  roll  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  pigeons 
on  each  side  ;  pour  in  the  soup,  and  send  it  up  hot. 

Partridge  Soup. 

TAKE  two  old  partridges  and  skin  them,  cut  them  into 
small  pieces,  with  three  slices  of  ham,  some  celery,  and  tw* 


SOUPS.  165 

or  three  onions  sliced  :  fry  them  in  butler  till  they  are  per- 
fectly brown,  but  take  care  not  to  burn  them.  Then  put 
them  into  three  quarts  or'  second  stock,  with  u  few  pepper- 
corns, and  boil  it  slowly  till  about  a  pint  or  little  more  of  it 
is  consumed.  Then  strain  it,  put  in  it  some  stewed  celery  and 
fried  bread,  and  serve  it  up  hot. 

Vermicelli  Soup. 

PUT  four  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  cut  in  a  knuckle 
of  veal  and  a  scrag  of  mutton  into  small  pieces,  about  the  size 
of  a  walnut.  Slice  in  the  meat  of  a  shank  of  ham,  with  two 
or  three  carrots,  two  parsnips,  two  large  onions,  with  a  clove 
stuck  in  at  each  end,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  four  or 
five  heads  of  celery  washed  clean,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
eight  or  ten  morels,  and  an  anchovy :  cover  the  pan  close, 
and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  without  any  water,  till  the  gravy 
is  drawn  out  of  the  meat.  Then  pour  out  the  gravy  into  a 
bason,  and  let  the  meat  brown  in  the  same  pan,  but  take  care 
not  to  let  it  burn.  Then  'pour  in  four  quarts  of  second  stock, 
and  let  it  boil  gently  till  it  is  wasted  to  three  pints.  Then 
strain  it,  skim  off'  the  fat,  and  put  the  other  gravy  to  it :  set 
it  on  the  fire,  and  add  to  it  two  ounces  of  vermicelli.  Then 
cut  the  nicest  part  of  a  head  of  celery,  seasoned  to  your 
taste  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and  let  it  boil  four  minutes.  If 
it  is  not  of  a  good  colour,  put  in  a  little  browning,  lay  a  French 
roll  in  the  soup  dish,  pour  the  soup  in  upon  it,  and  lay  some, 
of  the  vermicelli  at  top. 

Soup  Cressu. 

CUT  a  pound  of  lean  ham  into  small  bits,  and  put  them  at 
the  bottom  of  a  stewpan.  Then  cut  a  French  roll,  and  put 
over  the  ham.  Take  two  dozen  heads  of  celery  cut  small,  six 
onions,  two  turnips,  one  carrot,  cut  and  washed  very  clean, 
six  cloves,  four  blades  of  mace,  and  two  handfuls  of  water- 
cresses.  Put  them  all  into  the  stewpan,  with  a  pint  of  stock. 
Cover  close,  and  sweat  them  gently  for  twenty  minutes  :  fill 
it  up  with  veal  stock,  and  stew  four  hours:  rub  through  a 
tamis  cloth,  and  put  it  into  your  pan  again ;  season  with  salt 
and  cayenne :  give  it  a  simmer  up,  and  send  it  to  table  hot, 
with  some  French  roll  toasted  hard  in  it.  Boil  a  handful  of 
cresses  till  tender,  in  water,  and  nut  in  over  the  bread. 

Hare  Soup. 

CUT  a  large  old  hare  into  small  pieces,  and  put  it  in  a  jug, 
with  three  blades  of  mace,  a  little  salt,  two  large  onions,  two 


166  SOUPS. 

Anchovies,  six  morels,  half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  three 
quarts  of  water.  Bake  it  three  hours  in  a  quick  oven,  and 
then  strain  it  into  a  stewpan.  have  ready  boiled  three 
ounces  of  French  barley,  or  .^ago,  in  water :  then  put  the 
liver  of  tbe. Hare  two  minutes  in  scalding  water,  and  rub  it 
through  a  hair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a  v/obden  spoon.  Put 
it  into  the  soup  with  the  barley  or  sago,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter.  Set  over  the  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it,  but 
do  not  let  it  boil.  If  the  liver  is  disliked,  add  crisped  bread 
steeped  in  red  wine. 

Gibht  Soup. 

To  four.pounds  of  gravy  beef,  put  two  pounds  of  scrag  of 
mutton,  and  two  pounds  of  scrag  of  veaL  Put  to  this  meat 
two  gallons  of  water,  and  let  it  stew  very  softly  till  it  is  a 
strong  broth.  Let  it  stand  till  cold,  and  skim  off  the  fat. 
Take  two  pair  of  giblets,  well  scalded  and  cleaned,  put  them 
into  the  broth,  .and  let  them  simmer  tilLthey  are  very  tender. 
Take  out  the  giblets,  and  strain  the  soup  through  a  tarnis : 
put  apiece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  into  a  stewpan,  and  make 
it  of  a  light  brown.  Have  ready  chopped  small  some  parsley, 
chives,  a  little  basil,  and  a  little  sweet  marjoram.  Put  the 
soup  over  a  very  slow  fire;  put  in  the  giblets,  fried  butter, 
herbs,  a  little  Madeira  wine,  some  salt,  and  cayenne:  let 
them  simmer  till  the  herbs  are  tender,  and  send  the  soup  to 
table  with  t  ,e  giblets  in  it, 

Almond  Soi/p. 

CHOP  into  small  pieces  a  neck  of  veal,  and  the  scrag  end 
of  a  neck  of  mutton,  and  put  them  into  a  large  stewpan. 
Cut  in  a  turnip,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  five  quarts 
of  water:  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently  till  reduced 
to  two  quarts:  strain  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  clean  stew- 
pan, and  add  six  ounces  of  almonds  blanched  and  beat  fine, 
half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  season  to  your  taste  with 
cayenne.  Have  ready  three  small  French  rolls  made  for  the 
purpose,  of  the  size  of  a  small  tea-cup;  if  too  large,  they 
will  suck  up  too  much  of  the  soup,  and  will  not  look  well: 
blanch  a  few  Jordan  almonds,  cut  them  lengthways,  and  stick 
them  round  the  edges  and  the  top  of  the  rolls,  and  put  them 
in  the  tureen  :  serve  with  the  soup  poured  upon  the  rolls. 

•Maccaroni  Soup. 

TAKE  four  quarts  of  stock  :  take  half  a  pound  of  small  pipe- 
maccaroni,  and  boil  in  three  quarts  of  water,  with  a  little  butter 


SOUPS.  167 

in  it,  till  tender ;  strain  the  water  from  it,  and  cut  it  in  pieces 
of  about  two  inches  long.  Put  it  into  the  soup,  and  boil  it 
up  for  ten  minutes:  add  the  crust  of  a  French  roll  baked  in 
the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  to  it. 

Cow-Heel  Soup. 

TAKE  six  pounds  of  mutton,  five  pounds  of  beef,  and  four 
of  veal,  the  coarsest  piece  will  do  :  cut  them  crossways,  and 
put  them  into  a  pot,  with  an  old  fowl  beaten  to  pieces,  and 
the  knuckle  part  of  a  ham;  let  these  stew  without  any  liquor 
over  a  very  slow  fire,  but  take  care  it  does  not  burn  to  the 
pot :  when  it  begins  to  stick  to  the  bottom,  stir  it;about,  and 
then  put  in  some  good  beef  stock  that  has  been  well  skimmed 
from  the  fat ;  then  add  some  turnips,  carrots,  and  celery  cut 
small,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  bay-leaf,  and  let  it  stew 
about  an  hour.  While  this  is  doing,  take  a  cow-heel,  split  it, 
and  set  it  on  to  boil  in  stock,  and  when  very  tender,  take  it  off, 
and  set  on  a  stewpan  with  some  crusts  of  bre;id,  and  some 
more  stock,  and  let  them  soak  for  eight  or  ten  minutes. 
When  the  soup  is  stewed  enough,  Jay  the  crusts  in  a  tureen t 
And  then  two  halves  of  the  cow-heel  upon  them ;  and  pour  on 
the  soup. 

Ox-Cheek  Soup. 

BREAK  the  bones  of  an  ox-cheek,  and  wash  them  perfectly 
clean ;  lay  them  in  warm  water,  and  throw  in  a  little  salt, 
which  will  take  out  the  slime:  take  a  large  stewpan,  and  put 
two  ounces  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  it,  and  lay  the  fleshy  side 
of  the  cheek-bone  in  it.  Add  to  it  half  a  pound  of  a  shank 
of  ham  cut  in  slices,  and  four  heads  of  celery,  with  the  leaves 
pulled  off,  and  the  heads  washed  clean ;  cut  them  into  the 
soup,  with  three  large  onions,  two  carrots,  a  parsnip  sliced, 
a  few  beets  cut  small,  and  three  blades  of  mace.  Set  it  over 
a  moderate  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  which  will  draw  the  vir- 
tue from  the  roots,  and  give  to  the  gravy  an  agreeable  strength. 
When  the  head  has  simmered  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  put  to  it  six 
quarts  of  second  stock,  and  let  it  stew  till  reduced  to  two  quarts. 
If  intended  to  be  eaten  as  soup,  strain  and  take  out  the  meat 
and  the  other  ingredients,  and  put  in  the  white  part  of  a  head 
of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  with  a  little  browning  to  make  it 
of  a  fine  colour.  Take  two  ounces  of  vermicelli,  give  it  a  scald 
in  the  soup,  anr!  put  it  into  the  tureen,  with  the  top  of  a 
French  roll  in  the  middle  of  it.  If  to  be  eaten  like  a  stew, 
take  up  the  face  as  whole  as  possible,  and  have  ready  boiled 
turnip  or  carrot,  cut  in  square  pieces,  and  a  slice  of  bread 
toasted  and  cut  in  small  slices  :  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper, 


168  SOUPS. 

and  strain  the  soup  through  a  tamis  upon  the  msat,  bread, 
turnip,  and  carrot. 

'  Green  Peas  Soup, 

TAKE  a  peck  of  green  peas,  shell  and  boil  them  in  spring 
water  till  soft,  and  then  work  them  through  a  hair  sieve. 
Take  the  water  the  peas  were  boiled  in,  and  put  into  it  three 
slices  of  ham,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  few  beet-leaves  shred 
small,  a  turnip,  two  carrots,  and  add  a  little  more  water  to 
the  meat:  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  and  a 
half;  then  strain  the  gravy  into  a  bowl,  and  mix  it  with  the 
pulp  :  then  add  a  little  juice  of  spinach,  which  must  be  beat 
and  squeezed  through  a  tamis  cloth,  and  put  in  as  much  as 
will  make  it  look  of  a  pretty  colour :  give  it  a  gentle  boil,  to 
take  off  the  taste  of  the  spinach,  and  slice  in  the  whitest 
part  of  a  head  of  celery:  add  a  lump  of  sugar,  a  slice  of 
bread,  cut  it  into  little  square  pieces,  and  a  little  bacon  cut 
in  the  same  manner,  and  all  fried  of  a  light  brown  in  fresh 
butter.  Cut  a  large  cabbage-lettuce  in  slices,  fry  it  after  the 
other,  and  put  it  into  the  tureen,  with  the  fried  bread  and 
bacon.  Have  ready  boiled,  as  for  eating,  a  pint  of  young 
peas,  put  them  into  the  soup,  and  pour  all  into  the  tureen. 
If  approved  of,  a  little  chopped  mint  may  be  added. 

Green  Peas  Soup  without  Meat. 

As  the  peas  are  shelled,  separate  the  young  from  the  old ; 
boil  the  old  ones  soft  enough  to  pulp  through  a  sieve,  and 
mix  together  the  liquor,  the  pulp,  and  the  young  peas  whole. 
Add  some  whole  pepper,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  and 
some  cloves:  when  the  young  peas  are  nearly  done,  take 
some  spinach,  a  little  mint,  a  little  green  onion  not  shred  too 
small,  and  a  little  faggot  of  thyme  and  sweet  marjoram  ; 
put  these  into  a  saucepan  with  near  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
as  they  boil  shake  in  some  flour  to  boil  with  it,  to  the  quan- 
tity of  a  dredging  box  full :  put  a  roll  of  French  bread  into 
the  liquor  to  boil ;  mix  the  liquor  and  herbs  together,  and 
season  with  salt  to  the  taste. 

White  Peas  Soup. 

PUT  four  or  five  pounds  of  lean  beef  into  six  quarts  of  wa- 
ter, with  a  little  salt,  and  a*  soon  as  it  boils  take  off  the  scum. 
Put  in  three  quarts  of  old  green  peas,  two  heads  of  celery,  a 
little  thyme,  three  onions,  and  two  carrots.  Boil  them  till 
the'  meat  is  quite  tender,,  then  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve, 
and  rub  the  pulp  of  the  peas  through  the  sieve.  Split  the 
blanched  part  of  three  cos-lettuces  into  four  quarters, 


SOUPS  169 

and  cut  them  about  an  inch  long,  with  a  little  mint  cut 
small.  Then  put  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stevvpan  large 
enough  to  hold  your  soup,  and  put  the  lettuce  and  mint  into 
the  butter,  with  a  leek  sliced  very  thin,  and  a  pint  of  green 
peas ;  stew  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  shake  them  fre- 
quently:  then  add  a  little  of  the  soup,  and  stew  them  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  longer  :  put  in  the  soup,  as  much  thick  cream 
as  will  make  it  white,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  it  boils.  Fry  a 
French  roll  a  little  crisp  in  butter,  put  it  at  the  bottom  of  thr 
tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  it. 

Common  Peas  Soup. 

PUT  four  quarts  of  soft  water  to  one  quart  of  split  peas, 
with  a  little  bacon,  or  roast-beef  bones  ;  wash  a  head  of  celery, 
cut  it,  and  put  it  in,  with  a  turnip.  Boil  till  reduced  to  two 
quarts,  and  then  work  it  through  a  hair  sieve  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Mix  a  little  flour  and  water,  and  boil  it  well  in  the 
soup.  Slice  in  another  head  of  celery,  and  season  it  to  your 
taste  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Cut  a  slice  of  bread  into  small 
dice,  and  fry  them  of  a  light  brown.  Put  them  into  your 
tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  them. 

» 
Peas  Soup  for  Winter. 

CUT  into  small  pieces  about  four  pounds  of  lean  beef,  and 
about  a  pound  of  lean  bacon,  or  pickled  pork.  Put  them  into 
two  gallons  of  water,  and  skim  it  well  when  it  boils.  Then 
add  six  onions,  a  carrot,  two  turnips,  four  heads  of  celery 
cut  small,  twelve  corns  of  allspice,  and  a  quart  of  split  peas. 
Let  them  boil  gently  for  three  hours,  strain  them  through  a 
sieve,  and  rub  the  peas  through  the  sieve :  put  the  soup  irato 
a  clean  pot,  and  add  some  dried  mint  rubbed  to  a  fine  pow- 
der. Cut  off  the  white  of  four  heads  of  celery,  and  cut  two 
turnips  into  the  shape  of  dice,  and  boil  them  in  a  quart  of  wa- 
ter for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  strain  them  off,  and  put  them 
into  your  soup.  Take  about  a  dozen  small  rashers  of  fried 
bacon,  put  them  into  your  soap,  and  season  it  to  your  taste 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  the  whole  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
longer,  put  fried  bread  into  the  soup-dish  or  tureen,  and  pou/* 
your  soup  over  it.  Or  this  soup  may  be  made  in  the  follow- 
ing manner: — When  you  boil  a  leg  of  pork,  or  a  good  piece 
of  beef,  save  the  liquor.  Take  off  the  fat  as  soon  as  the  li- 
quor is  cold,  and  boil  a  leg  of  mutton  the  next  day.  Save 
that  liquor  also,  and,  when  cold,  in  like  manned  take  off  the 
fat.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  with  two  quarts  of  peas,  and  let  them 
boil  till  tender.  Then  put  in  the  pork  or  beef  liquor,  with 


no  SOUPS. 

the  ingredients  as  above,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  as  thick  as  you 
wish  it,  allowing  for  another  boiling:  strain  it  off,  and  add 
the  ingredients,  as  above  directed,  for  the  last  boiling. 

Soupe  de  Santti. 

TAKE  four  quarts  of  stock  made  as  follows:  take  six  good 
rashers  of  lean  ham,  and  put  them  on  the  bottom  of  a  stew- 
pan.  Then  put  over  them  three  pounds  of  lean  beef,  and 
over  the  beef  three  pounds  of  lean  veal,  six  onions  cut  in 
slices,  two  carrots  and  two  turnips  sliced,  two  heads  of  celery, 
a  bundle  of. sweet  herbs,  six  cloves,  and  tv»o  blades  of  mace. 
Put  a  little  water  at  the  bottom,  and  draw  it  very  gently  till  it 
sticks:  then  add  a  gallon  of  water,  and  let  it  stew  for  two 
hours;  season  with  salt  to  your  taste,  and  strain  it.  Have 
ready  a  carrot  cut  in  *mall  slices  of  two  inches  long,  and 
about  as  thick  as  a  goose  quill ;  also  a  turnip,  two  heads  of 
leeks,  the  same  of  celery,  and  the  same  of  endive,  cut  across; 
two  cabbage-lettuces  cut  across,  and  a  very  little  sorrel  and 
chervil.  Put  them  into  a  stewpari,  and  sweat  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour;  and  put  them  into  your  soup,  boil  them  up  gently 
for  ten  minutes,  put  in  a  crust  of  French  roll  into  your  tureen, 
and  pour  your  soup  over  it. 

Soup  de  Sanle,  tht  English  way. 

To  ten  or  twelve  pounds  of  gravy  beef  add  a  knuckle  of 
veal  and  the  knuckle  part  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  a  couple  of 
fowls,  or  two  old  cocks  will  do  as  well,  and  a  gallon  of  water. 
Let  these  stew  very  softly  till  reduced  to  one  half;  but  mind 
to  set  them  to  stew  the  night  before.  Add  to  them  some 
crusts  of  bread,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some  celery,  sorrel, 
chervil,  and  purslain,  if  agreeable;  or  any  of  them  may  be 
left  out:  When  it  is  strong  and  good  strain  it,  and  serve  with 
either  a  roast  or  boiled  fowl,  or  a  piece  of  roast  or  boiled  neck 
of  veal  in  the  middle. 

Onion  Soup. 

TAKE  eight  or  ten  large  Spanish  onions,  and  boil  them  in 
milk  and  water  till  quite  soft,  changing  the  milk  and  water 
three  times  while  the  onions  are  boiling.  When  they  are 
quite  soft,  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve.  Cut  an  old  cock 
in  pieces,  and,  with  a  blade  of  mace,  boil  it  for  gravy:  then 
strain  it,  and  having  poured  it  on  the  pulp  of  the  onions,  boil 
it  gently,  with  the  crumb  of  an  old  penny  loaf,  grated  into 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  season  it  to  your  taste  with  salt  and 


SOUPS.  171 

Cayenne.     Stewed  spinach,  or  a  few  heads  of  asparagus,  may 
be  added,  as  they  give  it  a  very  pleasing  flavour. 

White  Onion  Soup. 

BOIL  thirty  large  onions  in  five  quarts  of  water  with  a 
knuckle  of  veal,  a  little  whole  pepper,  and  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace.  Take  the  onions  up  as  soon  as  they  are  quite  soft,  rub 
them  throug'.i  a  hair  sieve  ;  and  work  into  them  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  with  some  flour.  When  the  meat  is  boiled  off"  the 
bones,  strain  the  liquor  to  the  onions,  and  boil  it  gently  for 
half  an  hour,  and  then  serve  with  a  large  cupful  of  cream, 
and  a  little  salt.  When  the  flour  and  butler-are  .added,  stif 
well  to  prevent  burning. 

Hop-Top  Soup. 

IN  the  month  of  April,  take  a  large  quantity  of  hop-tops, 
when  they  are  in  the  greatest  perfection.  Tie  them  in 
bundles  of  twenty  or  thirty  in  each  ;  lay  them  in  spring 
water  for  %n  hour  or  two,  drain  them  well  from  the  water, 
and  put  them  to  some  thin  peas  soup.  Boil  them  well,  and 
add  three  spoonsful  of  the  juice  of  onions,  some  pepper  and 
salt.  Let  them  boil  some  time  longer,  arid,  when  done,  soak 
some  crusts  of  bread  in  the  liquor,  lay  them  in  the  tureen, 
and  pour  in  the  soupk 

Asparagus  Soup. 

CUT  four  or  five  pounds  of  beef  to  pieces ;  set  it  over  a 
fire,  with  an  onion  or  two,  a  few  cloves,  and  some  whole 
black  pepper,  a  calf's  foot  or  two,  a  head  or  two  of  celery, 
and  a  very  little  bit  of  butter.  Let  it  draw  at  a  distance  from 
the  fire  ;  put  in  a  quart  of  warm  beer,  and  three  quarts  of 
warm  beef  stock.  Let  these  stew  till  enough  ;  strain  it,  take 
off  the  fat  very  clean,  put  in  some  asparagus  heads  cut  small 
(palates  may  be  added,  boiled  very  tender),  and  a  toasted 
Drench  roll,  the  crumb  taken  out, 

Plumb  Porridge  for  Christmas. 

PUT  in  a  leg  and  shin  of  beef  into  eight  gallons  of  water, 
and  boil  them  till  very  tender.  When  the  broth  is  strong, 
strain  it  out.  Then  wipe  the  pot,  and  put  in  the  broth  again. 
Slice  six  penny  loaves  thin,  cut  off  the  tops  and  bottoms,  put 
some  of  the  liquor  to  them,  and  cover  them  up,  and  let  them 
stand  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  boil  and  strain  it,  and 
put  it  into  your  pot.  Let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
put  in  five  pounds  of  currants  clean  washed  and  picked.  Let 


172  SOUPS. 

them  boil  a  little,  and  add  five  pounds  of  stoned  raisins  of  the 
sun,  and  two  pounds  of  prunes.  Let  these  boil  till  they  swell, 
and  put  in  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  cloves,  and  a  small  nutmeg,  all  beat  fine.  Before  you 
put  these  into  the  pot,  mix  them  with  a  little  cold  liquor,  and 
do  not  put  them  in  but  a  little  while  before  you  take  off  the 
pot.  When  you  take  off  the  pot,  put  in  three  pounds  of  su- 
gar, a  little  salt,  a  quart  of  sack,  a  quart  of  claret,  and  the 
juice  of  two  or  three  lemons.  Yon  may  thicken  with  sago  in- 
stead of  bread.  Pour  your  porridge  into  earthen 'pans,  and 
keep  it  for  use. 

Milk  Soup. 

TAKE  two  quarts  of  new  milk,"  two  sticks  of  cinnamon,  a 
couple  of  bav-leaves,  a  very  little  basket-salt,  and  a  very  little 
sugar.  Then  blanch  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  while  the 
former  matters  are  heating,  and  beat  them  up  to  a  paste  in  a 
marble  mortar.  Mix  some  milk  with  them  by  little  and  little, 
and  while  they  are  beating,  grate  some  lemon  peel  with  the 
almonds,  and  a  little  of  the  juice:  strain  it  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  mix  all  together,  and  let  it  boil  up,  Cut  some  slices  of 
French  bread,  and  dry  them  before  the  fire.  Soak  them  a  little 
in  the  milk,  lay  them  at  the  bottom  of  the  tureen,  and  then 
pour  in  the  soup. 

Milk  Soup  the  Dutch  way. 

BOIL  a  quart  of  milk  with  cinnamon  and  moist  sugar.  Put 
sippets  into  the  dish,  pour  the  milk  over  it,  and  set  it  over  a 
charcoal  fire  to  simmer  till  the  bread  is  soft.  Take  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  beat  them  up,  mix  it  with  a  little  of  the  milk, 
and  throw  it  in :  mix  all  together,  and  send  it  up  to  table. 

Rice  Soup. 

PUT  a  pound  of  rice,  and  a  little  cinnamon,  into  two  quarts 
of  water.  Cover  close,  and  simmer  very  softly  till  the  rice  is 
quite  tender.  Take  out  the  cinnamon,  then  sweeten  it  to  the 
palate,  grate  half  a  nutmeg,  and  let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold  : 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  with  half  a  pint  of  white 
wine,  mix  them  very  well  and  stir  them  into  the  rice.  Set 
them  on  a  slow  fire,  and  keep  stirring  all  the  time  for  fear  of 
curdling.  When  of  a  good  thickness,  and  boiling,  take  it  up. 
Keep  stirring  it  till  it  is  put  into  the  dish. 

Turnip  Soup. 

PARE  a  bunch  of  turnips,  save  three  or  four  out,  and  put  the 
rest  into  a  gallon  of  water,  with  half  an  ounce  of  whole  pep- 


SOUPS.  173 

per,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  half  a  nut- 
meg bruised,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  large  crust  of 
bread.  Let  these  boil  an  hour  pretty  fast,  then  strain  it  through 
a  sieve,  squeezing-  the  turnips  through.  Wash  and  cut  a 
bunch  of  celery  very  small,  set  it  on  in  the  liquor  on  the  fire, 
cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew.  In  the  meantime,  cut  the  tur- 
nips you  saved  into  dice,  and  two  or  three  small  carrots  clean 
scraped,  and  cut  into  little  pieces.  Put  half  these  turnips  and 
carrots  into  the  pot  with  the  celery,  and  the  other  half  fry 
brown  in  fresh  butter,  flouring  them  first;  then  two  or  three 
onions  peeled,  cut  into  thin  slices  and  fried  J>r own :  put  all 
into  the  soup,  with  one  ounce  of  vermicelli.  Let  the  soup  boil 
softly  till  the  celery  is  quite  tender,  and  the  s<Sup  good.  Sea- 
son with  salt  to  the  palate. 

Egg  Soup. 

HAVING  beaten  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a  dish,  with  a  piece 
of  butter  as  big  as  a  hen's  egg,  take  a  tea-kettle  of  boiling 
water  in  one  hand,  and  a  spoon  in  the  other.  Pour  in  about  a 
quart  by  degrees,  then  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time  well  till 
the  eggs  are  well  mixed,  and  the  butter  melted  :  pour  it  into 
a  saucepan,  and  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time  till  it  begins  to  sim- 
mer: take  it  off  the  fire,  and  pour  it  between  two  vessels,  out 
of  one  into  another,  till  it  is  quite  smooth,  and  has  a  great 
froth.  Set  it  on  the  fire  again,  keep  stirring  it  till  quite  hot, 
then  pour  it  into  the  soup-dish,  and  send  it  hot  to  table. 

Cray-fish  Soup. 

TAKE  half  a  hundred  of  fresh  craw-fish,  boil  them,  and  pick 
out  all  the  meat,  which  must  be  carefully  saved:  take  a 
fresh  lobster  and  pick  out  all  the  meat,  which  must  be  like- 
wise saved :  pound  the  shells  of  the  lobster  and  cray-fish  fine 
in  a  marble  mortar,  and  boil  them  in  four  quarts  of  water, 
with  four  pounds  of  mutton,  a  pint  of  green  split  peas  nicely  / 
picked  and.  washed,  a  large  turnip,  carrot,  onion,  an  anchovy, 
mace,  cloves,  a  little  thyme,  pepper,  and  salt.  Stew  them  on 
a  slow  fire,  till  the  goodness  is  out  of  the  mutton  and  the 
shells,  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve.  Then  put  in  the  tails 
of  the  cray-fish  and  the  lobster  meat,  cut  in  very  small  pieces, 
with  the  red  coral  of  the  lobster,  If  it  has  any.  Boil  half  an 
hour,  and  just  before  serving  it  up,  put  to  it  a  little  butter 
melted  thick  and  smooth.  Stir  it  round  several  times,  take 
care  not  to  make  it  too  strong  of  the  spice,  and  send  it  up 
hot. 


174  SOUPS. 


Oyster  Soup. 

TAKE  what  quantity  may  be  wanted  of  fish-stock ;  then  take 
two  quarts  of  oysters  bearded, and  beat  them  in  a  mortar,  with 
the  yolks  of  ten  e-gs  boiled  hard.  Put  them  to  the  fish-stock, 
and  set  it  over  the  fire.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  grated 
nutmeg,  and  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  eggs  and  oysters.  Let 
it  boil  till  it  be  of  a  good  thickness,  and  like  a  fine  cream. 

Eel  Soup. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  eels,  which  will  make  a  pint  of  good 
soup,  or  any  greater  weight  of  eels,  in  proportion  to  the  quan- 
tity of  soup  intended  to  be  made  ;  to  every  poui^d  of  eels  put 
a  quart  of  water,  a  crust  of  bread,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace, 
a  little  whole  pepper,  an  onion,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs. 
Cover  them  close,  and  let  them  boil  till  half  the  liquor  is 
wasted.  Then  strain  it,  and  toast  some  bread  ;  cut  it  small, 
lay  the  bread  into  the  dish,  and  pour  in  the  soup. 

Muscle  Soup. 

WASH  an  hundred  of  muscles  very  clean,  put  them  into  a 
stewpan,  and  cover  them  close.  Let  theifi  stew  till  they  open ; 
then  pick  them  out  of  the  shells,  strain  'the  liquor  through  a 
fine  lawn  sieve  to  your  muscles,  and  pick  out  the  beard  or 
crab,  if  any.  Take  a  dozen  crayfish,  beat  them  fine  with  a 
dozen  of  almonds  blanched,  and  beat  fine:  then  take  a  small 
parsnip,  and  a  carrot  scraped,  and  cut  it  into  thin  slices,  and 
fry  them  brown  with  a  little  butter  :  take  two  pounds  of  any 
fresh  fish,  and  boil  them  in  a  gallon  of  water,  with  a  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  a  large  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  whole  black  and 
white  pepper,  a  little  parsley,  and  a  little  piece  of  horse-ra- 
dish. Let  them  boil  till  half  is  wasted,  and  strain  them  through 
a  sieve.  Put  the  soup  into  a  saucepan,  twenty  of  the  mus- 
cles, a  few  mushrooms  and  truffles  cut  small,  and  a  leek 
washed  and  cut  very  small.  Take  two  French  rolls,  take  out 
the  crumb,  fry  it  brown,  cut  it  into  little  pieces,  and  put  it 
into  the  soup.  Boil  it  altogether  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
with  the  fried  carrot  and  parsnip.  In  the  meantime,  take  the 
crust  of  the  rolls  fried  crisp  ;  take  half  a  hundred  of  the  mus- 
cles, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  spoonful  of  water,  shake 
in  it  a  little  flour,  and  set  them  on  the  fire,  keeping  the  sauce- 
pan shaking  all  the  time  till  the  butter  is  melted.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  beat  the  yolks  of  three  e^gs,  put  them  in, 
»tir  them  all  the  time  for  fear  of  curdling,  and  grate  in  a  little 


VEGETABLES.  H5 

» 

intmeg.  Wlien  it  is  thick  and  fine,  fill  the  rolls,  pour  the 
oup  into  the  dish,  put  in  the  rolls,  and  lay  the  rest  of  the  mus- 
;les  round  the  rim  of  the  dish. 

Skate  or  Thornback  Soup. 

SKIN  and  boil  two  pounds  of  skate  or  thornback  in  six 
parts  of  water.  When  enough,  lake  it  up,  pick  off  the  flesh, 
ind  lay  it  by.  Put  in  the  bones  again,  and  about  two  pounds 
>f  any  fresh  fish,  a  very  little  piece  of  lemon  pee!,  a  bundle 
>f  sweet  herbs,  whole  pepper,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace, 
t  little  piece  of  horse-radish,  the  crust  of  a  pefiny  loaf,  and  a 
ittle  parsley ;  cover  close,  and  let  it  boil  till  reduced  to  about 
wo  quarts  :  strain  it  off,  and  add  an  ounce  of  vermicelli,  set  it 
>n  the  fire,  and  Jet  it  boil  gently.  In  the  meantime,  take  a 
Yench  roll,  cut  a  little  hole  in  the  top,  take  out  the  crumb, 
md  fry  the  crust  brown  in  butter.  Take  the  flesh  of  the  fish 
aid  by,  cut  it  into  little  pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan, 
vith  two  or  three  spoonsful  of  the  soup  ;  shake  in  a  little  flour, 
mt  iri  a  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  shake 
hem  together  in  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  till  it  is  quite 
hick,  and  then  fill  the  roll  with  it.  Pour  the  soup  into  the 
ureen,  and  let  the  roll  swim  in  the  middle. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 
ROOTS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

HE  very  careful  that  your  greens  are  nicely  picked  and 
washed,  and  when  so  done,  alwaj's  lay  them  in  a  clean  pan, 
for  fear  of  sand  and  dust,  which  is  apt  to  hang  round  wooden 
i-essels.  Boil  all  your  greens  in  a  well-tinned  copper  saucepan 
by  themselves,  and  be  sure  to  let  them  have  plenty  of  water. 
Boil  no  kind  of  meat  with  them,  as  that  will  discolour  them  ; 
and  use  no  iron  pans,  sucb  being  very  improper  for  the  pur- 
pose, but  let  them  be  either  copper  or  br&ss  well  tinned ;  or 
silver.  Numbers  of  cooks  spoil  their  garden  stufls  by  boiling 
them  too  much.  All  kinds  of  vegetables  should  have  a  little 
crispness;  for  if  you  boil  them  too  much)  you  will  deprive 
them  both  of  their  sweetness  and  beauty. 

N.  B.  A  tea-spoonful  of  American  pearl -ash  thrown  into 
the  water,  will  boil  greens  of  a  much  finer  colour  than  salt ; 
and  it  is  besides,  perfectly  wholesome. 


VEGETABLES. 


Cabbages. 

ALL  sorts  of  cabbages  and  young  sprouts  must  have  plenty 
of  water  allowed  them  to  boil  in,  and  when  the  stalks  become 
tender,  or  fall  to  the  bottom,  it  is  a  proof  of  their  being  suf- 
ficiently boiled.  Then  take  them  off  before  they  lose  their 
colour  ;  but  remember  always  to  throw  some  salt  into  the 
water  before  the  greens  are  put  in.  Send  the  young  sprouts 
to  table  whole  as  they  come  out  of  the  pot;  but  many  people 
think  cabbage  is  best  chopped,  and  put  into  a  saucepan,  with 
a.  piece  of  butter,  stirring  it  about  for  five  or  six  minutes,  till 
the  butter  is  all  melted,  then  empty  it  on  a  dish,  and  serve  it 

• 

up. 

Turnips. 

TURNIPS  may  be  boiled  in  the  pot  with  the  meat,  and  in- 
deed eat  best  when  so  done.  When  they  are  enough,  take 
them  out,  put  them  into  a  pan,  mash  them  with  butter  and  a 
little  salt,  and  in  that  state  ^end  them  to  table.  Another  me- 
thod of  boiling  them  is  as  follows  :  pare  the  turnips,  and  cut 
them  into  little  square  pieces  of  the  size  of  dice :  put  them 
into  a  saucepan,  and  just  cover  them  over  with  water.  As 
soon  as  they  are  enough,  take  them  off  the  fire,  and  throw 
them  into  a  sieve  to  drain.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  a 
good  piece  of  butter,  stir  them  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  they  will  then  be  fit  for  the  table. 

Potatoes. 

THOUGH  greens  require  plenty  of  water  to  be  boiled  in, 
potatoes  must  have  only  a  quantity  sufficient  to  keep  the 
saucepan  from  burning.  Keep  them  close  covered,  and  as  soon 
as  the  skins  begin  to  crack,  they  will  be  enough.  Having 
drained  out  all  the  water,  let  them  stand  covered  for  a  minute 
or  two. 

Scolloped  Potatoes. 

HAVING  boiled  the  potatoes,  beat  them  fine  in  a  marble 
mortar,  with  some  cream,  a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little 
salt :  put  them  into  scollop  shells,  make  them  smooth  on  the 
top,  score  them  with  a  knife,  and  lay  thin  slices  of  butter  on 
the  top  of  them.  Then  put  them  into  a  Dutch  oven  to  brown 
before  the  fire. 

Spinach. 

HAVING  picked  the  spinach  very  clean,  and  washed  it  in 
five  or  six  waters,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  that  will  just  hold 


VEGETABLES.  177 

it,  throw  a  little  salt  over  it,  and  cover  it  close :  put  in  no 
water,  but  take  care  to  shake  the  pan  often.  Put  the  sauce- 
pan on  a  clear  and  quick  fire,  and  as  soon  as  the  greens  are 
shrunk  and  fallen  to  the  bottom,  and  the  liquor  that  comes  out 
of  them  boils  up,  it  is  a  proof  the  spinach  is  enough.  Throw 
them  into  a  clean  sieve  to  drain,  and  just  give  them  a  gentle 
squeeze;  lay  them  on  a  plate,  and  send  them,  up  with  butter 
in  a  boat,  but  never  pour  any  over  them. 

Carrots. 

SCRAPE  the  carrots  very  clean,  put  them  into  the  pot,  and 
when  they  are  enough  take  them  out,  and  rub  them  in  a  clean 
cloth,  then  slice  them  into  a  plate.  If  young' spring  carrots, 
half  an  hour  will  boil  them  sufficiently  ;  if  large,  they  will  re- 
quire an  hour;  and  old  Sandwich  carrots  will  take  two  hours 
boiling. 

French  Beans. 

STRING  the  beans,  cut  them  in  two,  and  then  across:  or, 
cut  them  into  four,  and  then  aci'ossyso  that  each  bean  will 
then  be  in  eight  pieces.  Put  them  into  salt  and  water,  and 
when  the  pan  boils,  put  them  in  with  a  little  salt.  They  will 
be  soon  done,  which  may  be  known  by  their  becoming  tender: 
but  take  care  not  to  suffer  them  to  lose  their  fine  green  colour. 

French  Beans  ragooed* 

STRING  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  French  beans,  but  do  not 
split  them.  Cut  them  across  in  three  parts,  and  lay  them  in 
salt  and  water:  take  them  out,  and  dry  them  in  a  coarse 
cloth  ;  then  fry  them  brown,  pour  out  all  the  fat,  and  put  in 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  hot  water.  Stir  it  into  the  pan  by  de- 
grees, ami  let  it  boil.  Then  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter  rolled  in  a  little  flour,  two  spoonsful  of  ketchup,  a 
spoonful  of  mushroom  pickle,  four  spoonsful  of  white  wine, 
an  onion  stuck  with  six  cloves,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace 
beaten,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 
Stir  it  all  together  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  throw  in  the 
beans.  Shake  the  pan  for  a  minute  or  two,  take  out  the  onions, 
and  pour  all  into  your  dish. 

French  Beans  ragoocd  with  a  Force. 

HAVING  made  a  ragoo  of  beans  as  above  directed,  take  two 
large  carrots,  scrape  them,  and  then  boil  them  tender.  Then 
mash  them  in  a  pan,  and  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Mix  them  with  a  little  piece  of  butter,  and  two  eggs.  Mak$ 

N 


118  ,          ,      VEGETABLES. 

it  into  any  shape,  and  bake  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  quick 
oven ;  but  a  tin  oven  is  the  best.  Lay  it  in  the  middle  of  the 
dish,  and  the  ragoo  round  it. 

Cauliflowers. 

CUT  off  all  the  green  part  from  the  cauliflowers,  then  cut 
the  flowers  into  four,  and  lay  them  into  water  for  an  hour: 
then  have  some  milk  and  water  boiling;  put  in  the  cauli- 
flowers, and  be  sure  to  skim  the  saucepan  well.  When  the 
stalks  are  tender,  take  up  the  (lowers  carefully,  and  put  them 
into  a  cullender  to  drain.  Then  put  a  spoonful  of  water  into 
a  clean  stewpan,  with  a  little  dust  of  flour,  about  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  and  shake  it  round  till  it  is  all  finely  melted 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Then  take  half  the  cauliflower, 
and  cut  it  as  for  pickling.  Lay  it  into  the  stewpan,  turn  it, 
and  shake  the  pan  round.  Ten  minutes  will  do  it.  Lay  the 
stewed  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  boiled  round  it, 
and  pour  over  it  the  butter. 

Or,  cauliflowers  may  be  dressed  in  this  manner:  cut  the 
stalks  off,  leave  a  little  gfcpen  on,  and  boil  them  in  spring  water 
and  salt,  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Take  them  out  and  drain 
them,  and  send  them  up  whole,  with  some  melted  butter  in  a 
boat. 

Asparagus. 

HAVING  scraped  all  the  stalks  very  carefully  till  they  look 
white,  cut  all  the  stalks  even  alike,  throw  them  into  water, 
and  have  ready  a  stewpan  boiling.  Put  in  some  salt,  and  tie 
the  asparagus  in  little  bunches.  Let  the  water  keep  boiling, 
and  when  they  are  a  little  tender  take  them  up.  If  boiled  too 
much  they  will  lose  both  their  colour  and  taste.  Cut  a  round 
of  a  small  loaf,  about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  toast  it  brown  on 
both  sides.  Then  dip  it  in  the  liquor  the  asparagus  was  boiled 
in,  and  lay  it  in  the  dish.  Pour  a  little  butter  over  the  toast, 
then  lay  the  asparagus  on  the  toast  all  round  the  dish,  with  the 
white  tops  outwards. 

Asparagus  forced  in  French  Rolls. 

CiPr  a  piece  out  of  the  crust  of  the  tops  of  three  French 
rolls,  and  take  out  all  their  crumb ;  but  be  careful  that  the 
crusts  fit  again  in  their  places  from  whence  they  were  taken. 
Fry  the  rolls  brown  in  fresh  butter.  Then  take  a  pint  of 
cream,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  beat  fine,  and  a  little  salt  and  nut- 
meg :  stir  well  together  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  begins  to  be 
thick.  Have  ready  a  hundred  of  small  grass  boiled,  and  save 
tops  enough  to  stick  the  rolls  with.  Cut  the  rest  of  the  tops 


VEGETABLES.  179 

small,  put  them  into  the  cream,  and  fill  the  rolls  with  them. 
Before  frying  the  rolls,  make  holes  thick  in  the  top  crusts,  to 
stick  the  grass  in.  Then  lay  on  the  pieces  of  crust,  and  stick 
the  grass  in,  that  it  may  look  as  if  it  were  growing. 

Parsnips. 

PARSNIPS  must  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water;  and  when 
they  become  soft,  which  may  be  known  by  running  a  fork 
into  them,  take  them  up,  and  carefully  scrape  all  the  dirt  off 
them.  Then  scrape  them  all  fine  with  a  knife,  throwing  away 
all  the  sticky  part,  and  send  them  up  plain  in  a  dish  with  melted 
butter. 

Brocoli. 

CAREFULLY  strip  off  all  the  little  branches  but  the  top  one, 
and  then  with  a  knife  peel  off  all  the  hard  outside  skin  that  is 
on  the  stalks  and  little  branches,  and  then  throw  them  into 
water.  Have  ready  a  stewpan  of  water,  throw  in  a  little 
salt,  and  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  brocoli.  When  the  stalks 
are  tender,  it  will  be  enough.  Put  a  piece  of  toasted  bread, 
soaked  in  the  water  the  brocoli  was  boiled  in,  at  the  bottom 
of  the  dish,  and  put  the  brocoli  on  the  top  of  it,  in  the  same 
way  as  asparagus,  and  send  it  up  to  table  with  butter  in  a  boat. 

Windsor  Beans. 

THESE  must  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water,  with  a  good  quan- 
tity of  salt.  Boil  and  chop  some  parsley,  put  it  into  good 
melted  butter,  and  serve  them  up. 

Green  Peas. 

THE  peas  must  not  be  shelled  till  just  before  they  are 
wanted  :  put  them  into  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt  and  a 
lump  of  loaf  sugar,  and  when  they  begin  to  dent  in  the  mid- 
dle, they  will  be  enough.  Strain  them  into  a  sieve,  put  a  good 
lump  of  butter  into  the  dish,  and  stir  them  till  the  butter  is 
melted.  Boil  a  sprig  of  mint  by  itself,  chop  it  fine,  and  lay 
it  round  edge  of  the  dish  in  lumps. 

Peas  Francoise. 

SHELL  a  quart  of  peas,  cut  a  large  Spanish  onion  small, 
and  two  cabbage  or  Silesia  lettucesN  Put  to  them  half  a  pint 
of  water  with  a  little  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  mace,  and  nut- 
meg, all  beaten.  Cover  them  close,  and  let  them  stew  a 
quarterljf  an  hour.  Then  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 

N2 


1 80  VEGETABLES. 

butter  rolled  in  a  little  flour,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  and  at 
piece  of  burnt  butter  of  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Cover  them 
close,  and  simmer  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  observing  frequently 
to  shake  the  pan. 

Endive  ragoocd. 

LAY  three  heads  of  fine  white  endive  in  salt  and  water  for 
two  or  three  hours.  Then  take  a  hundred  of  asparagus,  and 
cut  off  the  green  heads  ;  then  chop  the  rest  small,  as  far  as  it 
is  tender,  and  lay  it  in  salt  and  water.  Take  a  bunch  of 
celery,  wash  it  and  scrape  it  clean,  and  cut  it  in  pieces  about 
three  inches  long.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of 
water,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  and  some  white  pepper 
tied  in  a  rag.  Let  it  stew  till  quite  tender,  then  put  in  the 
asparagus,  shake  the  saucepan,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  grass 
is  enough.  Take  the  endive  out  of  the  water,  drain  it,  and 
leave  one  large  head  whole.  Take  the  other  leaf  by  leaf,  put 
it  into  the  stewpan,  and  put  to  it  a  pint  of  white  wine.  Cover 
the  pan  close,  and  let  it  boil  till  the  endive  is  just  enough  : 
then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  cover 
the  pan  close,  and  keep  it  shaking.  When  the  endive  is 
enough,  take  it  up,  and  lay  the  whole  head  in  the  middle :  with 
a  spoon  take  out  the  celery  and  grass,  and  lay  them  round  it, 
and  the  other  part  of  the  endive  over  that.  Then  pour  the 
liquor  out  of  the  saucepan  into  the  stewpan,  stir  it  together, 
and  season  it  with  salt.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beat  up  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  and  half  a  nutmeg 
grated  in.  Mix  this  Avith  the  sauce,  keep  it  stirring  one  way 
till  it  is  thick,  and  pour  it  over  the  ragoo. 

Force-meagre  Cabbage. 

BOIL  a  white-heart  cabbage,  as  big  as  the  bottom  of  a  plate, 
five  minutes  in  water:  drain  it,  cut  the  stalk  flat  to  stand  in 
the  dish,  and  carefully  open  the  leaves,  and  take  out  the  in- 
side, leaving  the  outside  leaves  whole.  Chop  what  is  taken 
out  very  fine,  and  take  the  flesh  of  two  or  three  flounders  or 
plaice  clean  from  th*  bone.  Chop  it  with  the  cabbage,  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  handful  of 
pickled  parsley.  Beat  all  together  in  a  mortar,  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  melted  butter.  Then  mix  it  up  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  and  a  few  crumbs  of  bread.  Fill  the  cabbage,  and 
tie  it  together;  put  it  into  a  deep  stewpan  or  saucepan,  and 
put  to  it  half  a  pint  of  water,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
lolled  in  a  little  flour,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  an 
onion  stuck  with  six  cloves,  some  whole  pepper  and  mace  tied 
in  a  muslin  rag,  half  an  ounce  of  truffles  and  morels,  a  spoon- 


PUDDINGS.  181 


ful  of  ketchup,  and  a  few  pickled  mushrooms.  Corer  it  close, 
and  let  it  simmer  an  hour;  if  not  sufficiently  done  in  that 
time,  let  it  simmer  longer :  when  done,  take  out  the  onion 
and  spice,  lay  it  in  the  dish,  untie  it,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
it. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 
PUDDINGS. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

\VHEN  you  boil  a  pudding,  take  particular  care  that  your 
cloth  is  clean,  and  remember  to  dip  it  in  boiling  water ;  flour 
it  well,  and  give  it  a  shake,  before  you  put  your  pudding  into 
it.  If  it  be  a  bread  pudding  tie  it  loose,  but  close  if  a  batter 
pudding.  If  you  boil  it  in  a  bason,  butter  it,  and  boil  it  in. 
plenty  of  water.  Turn  it  often,  and  do  not  cover  the  pan  ; 
and  whe/i  enough,  take  it  up  in  the  bason,  and  let  it  stand  a 
few  minutes  to  cool.  Then  untie  the  string,  clap  the  cloth 
round  the  bason,  lay  your  dish  orer  it,  and  turn  the  pudding 
out ;  then  take  off  the  bason  and  cloth  very  carefully,  light 
puddings  being  apt  to  break.  When  you  make  a  batter  pud- 
ding, first  mix  the  flour  well  with  a  little  milk,  then  put  in 
the  ingredients  by  degrees,  and  it  will  be  smooth  and  not 
lumpy ;  but  for  a  plain  batter  pudding,  the  best  way  is  to  strain 
it  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve,  that  it  may  neither  have  lumps, 
nor  the  treadles  of  the  eggs  ;  and  for  all  other  puddings,  strain 
the  eggs  when  you  beat  them.  Bread  and  custard  puddings 
for  baking,  require  time  and  a  moderate  oven  to  raise  them  ; 
batter  and  rice  puddings  a  quick  oven,  and  always  remember 
to  butter  the  pan  or  dish  before  you  put  your  pudding  into 
jt. 

Steak  Pudding. 

HAVING  made  a  good  crust,  with  flour  and  suet  shred  fine, 
and  mixed  it  up  with  cold  water,  season  it  with  a  little  salt, 
and  make  a  pretty  stiff  crust,  in  the  proportion  of  two  pounds 
pf  suet  to  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  flour.  Take  either  beef  or 
mutton  steaks,  well  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
make  it  up  in  the  same  manner  as  an  apple  pudding  ;  tie  it 
in  a  cloth,  and  put  it  in  when  the  water  boils.  If  a  small  pud- 
ding, it  will  be  boiled  in  three  hours,  but  a  large  one  will  take 
Jive  hours. 


PUDDINGS. 


Calf's  Foot  Pudding. 

MINCE  very  fine  a  pound  of  calves'  feet,  first  taking  out  the 
fat  and  brown.  Then  take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  suet, 
pick  off  all  the  skin,  and  shred  it  small.  Take  six  eggs,  all 
the  yolks,  and  but  half  the  whites,  and  beat  them  well.  Then 
take  the  crumb  of  a  halfpenny  roll  grated,  a  pound  of  currants 
clean  picked  aad  washed,  and  rubbed  in  a  cloth,  as  much 
milk  as  will  moisten  it  with  the  eggs,  a  handful  of  flour,  a 
little  salt,  nutmeg,  and  sugar,  to  season  it  to  the  palate.  Boil 
it  nine  hours.  ^Then  take  it  up,  lay  it  in  the  dish,  and  pour 
melted  butter  over  it.  White  wine  and  sugar  may  be  put  into 
the  butter,  and  it  will  be  a  very  great  improvement. 

Yorkshire  Pudding. 

THIS  pudding  is  usually  baked  under  meat,  and  is  thus  made : 
beat  four  large  spoonsful  of  fine  flour  with  four  eggs,  and  a 
little  sak,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  put  to  them  three  pints 
of  milk,  and  mix  them  well  together.  Then  butter  a  drip- 
ping-pan, and  set  it  under  beef,  mutton,  or  a  loin  of  veal, 
when  roasting.  When  it  is  brown,  cut  it  into  square  pieces, 
and  turn  it  over;  and  when  the  under  side  is  browned  also, 
send  it  to  table  on  a  dish. 

Hunting  Pudding. 

Mix  eight  eggs  beat  up  fine  with  a  pint  of  good  cream,  and 
a  pound  of  flour.  Beat  them  well  together,  and  put  to  them 
a  pound  of  beef  suet  finely  chopped,  a  pound  of  currants  well 
cleaned,  half  a  pound  of  jar  raisins  stoned  and  chopped  small, 
two  ounces  of  candied  orange  cut  small,  the  same  of  candied 
citron,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  large 
nutmeg  grated.  Mix  all  together  with  half  a  gill  of  brandy, 
put  it  into  a  cloth,  tie  it  up  close,  and  boil  it.  four  hours. 

Marrow  Pudding. 

GRATE  a  penny  loaf  into  crumbs,  and  pour  on  them  a  pint 
of  boiling  hot  cream.  Cut  very  thin  a  pound  of  beef  marrow, 
beat  four  eggs  well,  and  then  add  a  glass  of  brandy,  with 
sugar  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste.  Mix  them  all  well  together, 
and  then  boil  or  bake  it.  Three  quarters  of  an  hour  will  do 
it.  Cut  two  ounces  of  citron  very  thin,  and  when  it  is  served, 
stick  them  all  over  it. 

Or,  having  laid  a  thin  paste  in  the  dish,  take  some  cream, 
the  yolks  and  whites  of  eight  eggs  beat  up  in  rose  water,  some 


PUDDINGS.  183 

sugar,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Mix  them  all  together.  Rasp 
some  stale  French  rolls,  and  cut  them  in  thin  slices.  Take 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants  washed,  picked,  and  dried  ; 
put  a  layer  of  bread  in  the  dish,  strew  some  currants  and 
marrow  sliced  over  it,  then  some  custard,  and  so  on  alternately 
until  the  dish  is  full.  The  dish  must  not  be  very  deep. 
After  it  is  boiled,  strew  sugar  over  it. 

Plum  Pudding  boiled, 

CUT  a  pound  of  suet  into  little  pieces,  but  not  too  fine,  a 
pound  of  currants  washed  clean,  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned, 
eight  yolks  of  eggs,  and  four  whites,  half  a'rnutmeg  grated, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  beaten  ginger,  a  pound  of  flourf  and  a  pint  of 
rnilk.  Beat  the  eggs  first,  then  put  to  them  half  the  milk, 
and  beat  them  together,  and  by  degrees  stir  in  the  flour,  then 
the  suet,  spice,  and  fruit,  as  much  milk  as  will  mix  it  well 
together  very  thick.  It  will  take  five  hours  boiling. 

Oxford  Pudding. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  biscuits,  the  same 
quantity  of  currants  clean  washed  and  picked,  the  same  of 
suef  shred  small,  half  a  large  spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  a 
little  salt,  and  some  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  them  all  well  toge- 
ther, and  take  two  yolks  of  eggs,  and  make  them  up  into 
balls  of  the  size  of  a  turkey's  egg.  Fry  them  of  a  fine  light 
brown,  in  fresh  butter,  and  let  the  sauce  be  melted  butter  and 
sugar,  with  a  little  white  wine  put  into  it. 

Custard  Pudding. 

FROM  a  pint  of  cream  take  two  or  three  spoonsful,  and 
mix  them  with  a  spoonful  of  fine  flour.  Set  the  rest  of  the 
cream  on  the  fire  to  boil,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  boiled,  take  it  off, 
and  stir  it  in  the  cold  cream  and  flour  very  well.  When  cool 
beat  up  five  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  and  stir  in  a  little 
salt  and  some  nutmeg,  two  or  three  spoonsful  of  sack,  and 
sweeten  to  the  palate  :  butter  a  bason,  and  pour  it  into  it,  tie 
a  cloth  over  it,  and  boil  it  half  an  hour.  Then  take  it  out, 
untie  the  cloth,  turn  the  pudding  into  the  dish,  and  pour  on 
it  melted  butter. 

Sweetmeat  Pudding. 

COVER  the  dish  with,a  thin  puff  paste,  then  take  candied 
orange,  lemon  peel,  and  citron,  of  each  an  ounce.  Slice  them 
thin,  and  lay  them  all  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Then 


184  PUDDINGS. 

beat  eight  yolks  of  eggs  and  two  whites,  near  Haifa  pound  of 
'sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  melted  butter.     Beat  all  veil  toge- 
ther, pour  in  all  the  sweetmeats,  and  bake  it  something  less 
than  an  hour  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 

Prune  or  Damson  Pudding. 

FROM  a  quart  of  milk  take  a  few  spoonsful,  and  beat  in  it 
six  yolks  of  eggs  and  three  whites,  four  spoonsful  of  Hour,  ;i 
little  salt,  and  two  spoonsful  of  beaten  ginger.  Then,  by  de- 
grees, mix  in  all  the  milk,  and  a  pound  of  prunes.  Boil  it  an 
hour  tied  up  in  a  cloth,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  it.  Dam- 
sons done  this  way  eat  full  as  well  as  prunes. 

A 

Orange  Pudding. 

HAVING  boiled  the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange  very  soft,  beat  it 
in  a  marble  mortar  with  the  juice,  and  put  to  it  two  Naples 
biscuits  grated  very  fine,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  half 
a  pound  01  butter,  and  the  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Mix  well  toge- 
ther, lay  a  good  puff  paste  round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and 
bake  it  half  an  hour  in  a  gentle  oven. 

Or,  take  the  yolks  of  sixteen  eggs,  beat  them  well  with 
half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  grate  in  the  rind  of  two  Seville 
oranges,  beat  in  half  a  pound  of  line  sugar,  two  spoonsful  of 
orange  flower  water,  two  of  rose  water,  a  gill  of  sack,  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  two  Naples  biscuits,  or  the  crumb  of  a  half- 
penny loaf  soaked  in  cream,  and  mix  all  well  together.  Make 
a  thin  puff  paste,  and  lay  it  all  round  the  rim  und  over  the 
dish.  Then  pour  in  the  pudding  and  bake  it. 

Or,  beat  sixteen  yolks  fine,  mix  them  with  half  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter  melted,  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  a  little  rose  water,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Cut  the 
peel  of  a  large  Seville  orange  so  thin  that  none  of  the  white 
may  appear,  beat  it  fine  in  a  mortar  till  like  a  paste,  and  by 
degrees  mix  in  the  ingredients.  Then  lay  a  puff  paste  all 
over  the  dis.h,  pour  in  the  ingredients,  and  bake  it, 

Or,  gratq  off  the  rind  of  two  large  Seville  oranges  as  far  as 
they  are  yellow.  Then  put  the  oranges  in  water,  and  let  them 
boil  till  tender:  shift  the  water  three  or  four  times,  to  take 
put  the  bitterness,  and  when  tender,  ctit  them  open,  and  take 
away  the  seeds  and  strings.  Beat  the  other  part  in  a  monar 
with  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  till  a  paste,  and  add  to  it  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  three  or  four  spoonsful  of  thick  cream,  and 
half  a  Naples  biscuit  grated.  Mix  these  together,  melt  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter  very  thick,  and  stir  it  well  in.  When 
sold,,  put  a  little  puff  paste  about  the  bottom  and  rim  of  th«$ 


PUDDINGS.  185 

dish.   Pour  in  the  ingredients,  and  bake  it  about  three  quarters 
of  an  hour.  % 

Biscuit  Pudding. 

POUR  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  or  cream  over  three  Naples 
biscuits  grated ;  cover  it  close ;  when  cold  add  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  the  whites  of  two,  some  nutmeg,  a  little  brandy, 
half  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  some  sugar.  Boil  this  an  hour 
in  a  china  bason,  and  serve  it  with  melted  butter,  wine,  and 
sugar. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

CUT  the  rind  very  thin  of  three  lemons,  and  boil  them  in 
three  quarts  of  water  till  tender.  Then  pound  them  very 
line  in  a  mortar,  and  have  ready  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
Naples  biscuits,  boiled  up  in  a  quart  of  milk  or  cream.  Mix 
them  and  the  lemon  rind  with  it,  and  beat  up  twelve  yolks 
>and  six  whites  of  eggs  very  fine.  Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  fresh  butter,  and  put  in  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  ami  a  little 
orange  Hower  water.  Mix  all  well  together,  put  it  over  the 
stove,  keep  it  stirring  till  it  is  thick,  and  then  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Put  puff  paste  round  the  dish,  as  before 
directed,  then  pour  the  pudding,  cut  some  candied  sweet- 
meats and  strew  over  it,  and  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Or,  blanch  and  beat  eight  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds  with 
orange  flower  water,  and  add  to  them  half  a  pound  of  cold 
butter,  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  and 
half  the  rind  grated  fine.  Work  them  in  a  marble  mortar  till 
they  look  white  and  light,  then  put  the  putf  paste  on  the  dish", 
pour  in  the  pudding,  and  bake  it  .half  an  hour, 

Sago  Pudding. 

BOIL  tv.  o  ounces  of  sago  in  a  pint  of  milk  till  tender.  When 
cold,  add  five  eggs,  two  Naples  biscuits,  a  little  brandy,  and 
sugar  it  to  the  taste.  Boil  it  in  a  bason,  and  serve  it  with 
melted  butter,  a  little  wine  and  sugar. 

Almond  Pudding. 

HAVING  boiled  the  skins  of  two  lemons  very  tender,  and 
beat  them  fine,  beat  half  a  pound  of  almonds  in  rose  water, 
and  a  pound  of  sugar,  till  they  are  very  fine.  Melt  halt'  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  let  it  stand  till  quite  cold.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  eight,  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  then  mix  and 
beat  them  all  together  with  a  little  orange  flower  water.  Bake 
it  in  the  oven. 


186  PUDDINGS.' 

Or,  beat  line  a  pound  and  a  half  of  blanched  almonds  with 
a  little  rose  water,  a  pound  of  grated  bread,  a  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  fine  sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  a 
large  nutmeg  beat  fine,  and  half  a  pound  of  melted  butter, 
mixed  with  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  four  beat 
fine  ;  a  pint  of  sack,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream,  and  some  rose 
or  orange/ flower  water.  Boil  the  cream,  tie  a  little  saffron  in 
a  bag,  and  dip  it  into  the  cream  to  colour  it.  First  beat  the 
eggs  well,  and  mix  them  with  the  butter.  Beat  it  up,  add  the 
spice,  then  the  almonds,  then  the  rose  water  and  wine  by 
degrees,  beating  it  all  the  time  ;  then  the  sugar,  and  then  the 
cream  by  degrees,  keeping  it  stirring ;  and  then  add  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  vermicelli.  Stir  all  together,  and  have  ready 
some  hog's  guts  nicely  cleaned.  Fill  them  only  half  full,  and 
whilst  filling,  here  and  there  put  in  a  bit  of  citron.  Tie  both 
ends  of  the  gut  tight,  and  boil  them  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour. 

Ipswich  Almond  Pudding. 

TAKE  a  little  more  than  three  ounces  of  the  crumb  of  white 
bread  sliced,  or  grated,  and  steep  it  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
cream.  Then  beat  half  a  pint  of  blanched  almonds  very 
fine,  with  a  little  orange  flower  water,  till  like  a  paste.  Beat 
up  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  four.  Mix  all 
well  together,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  and 
stir  in  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter.  Put  it 
over  the  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  it  is  thick.  Lay  a  sheet 
of  puff  paste  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  pour  in  the  ingre- 
dients. Half  an  hour  will  bake  it. 

Duke  of  Buckingham's  Pudding, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  suet  chopped  fine,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  two  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
ginger,  two  spoonsful  of  flour,  and  sugar  it  to  the  taste.  Tie  it 
close,  boil  it  four  hours  at  least,  and  serve  it  with  melted  butter, 
sack,  and  sugar. 

Duke  of  Cumberland's  Pudding. 

TAKE  flour,  grated  apples,  currants,  chopped  suet,  and 
sugar,  of  each  six  ounces;  six  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg  and  salt. 
Boil  it  two  hours  at  least,  and  serve  it  with  melted  butter, 
wine,  and  sugar. 

Herb  Pudding. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  grots,  and  steep  them  in  warm  water  half 
an  hour.  Take  a  pound  of  hog's  lard,  and  cut  it  into  little 


PUDDINGS.  181 

bits.  Take  of  spinach,  beets,  parsley,  and  leeks,  a  handful  of 
each;  three  large  onions  chopped  small,  and  three  sage-leaves 
cut  fine.  Put  in  a  little  salt,  mix  all  well  together,  and  tie  it 
close.  It  will  require  to  be  taken  up  in  boiling,  to  loosen  the 
string  a  little. 

Spinach  Pudding. 

PICK  and  wash  clean  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  spinach,  put  it. 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  salt,  cover  it  close,  and  when 
boiled  just  tender,  throw  it  into  a  sieve  to  drain.  Then  chop 
it  with  a  knife,  beat  up  six  eggs,  and  mix  well  with  it  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  and  a  stale  roll  grated  Fine,  a  little  nutmeg,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter.  Stir  all  well  together, 
put  it  into  the  saucepan  in  which  the  spinach  was  boiled, 
and  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time  till  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then 
wet  and  flour  the  cloth  well,  tie  it  up  and  boil  it  an  hour. 
When  enough,  turn  it  into  the  dish,  pour  melted  butter  over 
it,  and  the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange. 

Cream  Pudding. 

BOIL  a  quart  of  cream  with  a  blade  of  mace,  and  half  a 
nutmeg  grated,  and  let  it  stand  to  cool.  Beat  up  eight  eggs 
and  three  whites,  and  strain  them  well.  Mix  a  spoonful  of 
flour  with  them,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched, 
and  beat  very  fine,  with  a  spoonful  of  orange  flower,  or  rose 
water.  Mix  with  the  eggs,  then  by  degrees  mix  in  the  cream 
and  beat  all  well  together.  Take  a  thick  cloth,  wet  and  flour 
it  well,  pour  in  the  mixture,  tie  it  close,  and  boil  it  half  an 
hour.  Let  the  water  boil  fast  all  the  time,  and  when  it  is 
done,  turn  it  into  the  dish,  pour  melted  butter  over  it,  with  a 
little  sack,  and  throw  fine  sugar  all  over  it. 

Vermicelli  Pudding. 

TAKE  four  ounces  of  vermicelli,  and  boil  it  in  a  pint  of  new 
milk  till  it  is  soft,  with  a  stick  or  two  of  cinnamon.  Then  put 
in  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
the  like  quantity  of  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten. 
Bake  it  without  paste  in  an  earthen  ciish. 

Rice  Pudding. 

HAVING  boiled  four  ounces  of  ground  rice  in  water  till  it  is 
soft,  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  put  to  them  a  pint  of 
cream,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter. Having  mixed  them  well  together,  either  boil  or  bake  it. 

Or,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  put  it  into  a  sauce- 


188  PUDDINGS. 

pan,  with  a  quart  of  new  milk,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  stir  it 
often  to  prevent  it  sticking  to  the  saucepan.  When  it  is  boiled 
thick,  put  it  into  a  pan,  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  and  sugar  it  to  the  palate.  Grate  in  half  a  nutmeg, 
add  three  or  four  spoonsful  of  rose  water,  and  stir  all  well  toge- 
ther. When  cold,  beat  up  eight  eggs  with  half  the  whites, 
and  then  beat  it  all  well  together.  Pour  it  into  a  buttered 
dish,  and  bake  it. 

Or,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  and  half  a  pound  of 
raisins,  and  tie  them  in  a  cloth  ;  but  give  the  rice  a  good  deal 
of  roo;n  to  swell.  Boil  it  two  hours,  and  when  enough,  turn 
it  into  the  dish,  and  pour  melted  butter  and  sugar  over  it,  with 
a  little  nutmeg. 

Or,  tie  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  in  a  cloth,  but  give  it 
room  for  swelling.  Boil  it  an  hour,  then  take  it  up,  untie  it, 
and  with  a  spoon  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Grate 
some  nutmeg,  and  sweeten  it  to  the  palate.  Then  tie  it  up 
close,  and  boil  it  another  hour.  Then  take  it  up,  turn  it  into 
the  dish,  and  pour  over  it  melted  butter. 

Or,  boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  new  milk, 
and  keep  stirring  it  that  it  may  not  burn.  When  it  begins  to 
be  thick,  take  it  off,  and  let  it  stand  till  it  is  a  little  cool.  Then 
stir  in  well  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  sugar  it  to  the 
palate.  Grate  in  a  small  nutmeg,  then  pour  the  pudding  into 
a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  it. 

Flour  Hasty  Pudding. 

PUT  four  bay-leaves  into  a  quart  of  milk,  and  set  it  on  the 
fire  to  boil ;  then  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  stir  in  a 
little  salt :  take  two  or  three  spoonsful  of  milk,  and  beat  up 
with  the  eggs,  and  stir  in  the  milk:  then  with  a  wooden  spoon 
in  one  hand,  and  the  flour  in  the  other,  stir  it  in  till  it  be  of 
a  good  thickness,  but  not  too  thick.  Let  it  boil,  and  keep  it 
stirrng;  then  pour  it  into  a  dish,  and  stick  pieces  of  butter 
here  and  there.  The  eggs  may  be  omitted,  but  they  are  a 
good  addition  to  the  pudding.  A  little  piece  of  butter  stirred 
in  the  milk  makes  it  eat  short  and  fine.  Before  the  flour  i* 
put  in,  take  out  the  bay-leaves. 

•Fine  Hasty  Pudding. 

HAVING  broken  an  egg  into  fine  flour,  with  the  hand  work 
up  as  much  as  possible  into  a  stiff  paste,  and  thus  mince  it  as 
small  as  possible.  Then  put  it  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk, 
and  add  a  little  salt,  a  little  beaten  cinnamon,  a  little  sugar,  a 
piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a  walnut,  and  stir  all  one  way.  When 
it  is  as  thick  as  required,  stir  in  such  another  piece  of  butter. 


PUDDINGS.  189 

then  pour  it  into  the  dish,  and  stick  pieces  of,  butter    in  dif- 
ferent places. 

Millet  Pudding. 

WASH  and  pick  clean  half  a  pound  of  millet  seed,  put  to 
it  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  whole  nutmeg  grated,  and  three 
quarts  of  milk,  and  break  in  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
Butter  the  dish,  pour  it  into  it,  and  send  it  to  the  oven. 

Apricot  Pudding. 

TAKE  six  large  apricots,  and  coddle  them  till  tender,  break 
them  very  small,  and  sweeten  them  to  the  taste.  When  cold, 
add  to  them  six  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs:  mix  them 
well  together  with  a  pint  of  good  cream,  lay  a  puff  paste  all 
over  the  dish,  and  pour  in  the  ingredients.  Bake  it  half  an 
hour,  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  anJ  when  enough,  throw  a 
little  fine  sugar  all  over  it. 

Quaking  Pudding., 

BEAT  well  together  the  yolks  of  six  and  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  with  a  pint  of  cream,  and  mix  them  well  together. 
Grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  a  little  salt,  and  add  a  little  rose 
water.  Grate  in  the  crumb  of  a  halfpenny  roll,  or  a  spoon- 
ful of  flour,  first  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  cream,  or  a  spoon- 
ful of  the  flour  of  rice.  Butter  a  cloth  well,  and  flour  it. 
Then  put  in  the  mixture,  tie  it  rather  loose  than  tight,  and 
boil  it  half  an  hour  briskly  ;  but  remember  the  water  must 
boil  before  the  pudding  is  put  in. 

Oat  Pudding  baked. 

TAKE  two  pounds  of  decorticated  oats,  and  drown  them  in 
new  milk:  eight  ounces  of  raisins  of  the  sun  stoned,  the 
same  quantity  of  currants  well  picked  and  washed,  a  pound 
of  sweet  suet  shred  finely,  and  six  new-laid  eggs  well  beaten 
up.  Season  with  nutmeg,  beaten  ginger,  and  salt,  and  mix 
all  well  toether. 


An  Oatmeal  Pudding,  after  the  New  England  manner. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  whole  oatmeal,  and  steep  it  in  a  quart  of 
boiled  milk  over  night.  In  the  morning  take  half  a  pound  of 
beef  suet  shred  fine,  and  mix  with  the  oatmeal  and  boiled 
milk,  some  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  little  salt,  with  the  yolks 
and  whites  of  three  eggs,  a  quarter  of  ?i  pound  of  currants, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  or'  raisins,  and  as  much  sugar  as  will 
sweeten  it.  -Stir  it  well  together,  tie  it  pretty  close,  aud  boil 
it  two  hours.  For  tauce  use  melted  batter. 


190  PUDDINGS. 


Transparent  Pudding. 

PUT  eight  eggs  well  beaten  into  a  pan,  with  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  the  same  quantity  of  loaf  sugar  beat  fine,  with 
a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  keep  stirrino- 
it  till  of  the  thickness  of  buttered  eggs.  Then  put' it  into 
u  bason  to  cool,  roll  a  rich  puff  paste  very  thin,  lay  it  round 
the  edge  of  the  dish  and  pour  in  the  ingredients.  Bake  it 
half  an  hour  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  and  it  will  cut  light 
and  clear. 

French  Barley  Pudding. 

TAKE  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three,  beat 
them  up  well,  and  put  them  into  a  quart  of  cream.  Sweeten 
to  the  palate,  and  put  in  a  little  orange  flower  water,  and  a 
pound  of  melted  butter.  Then  add  six  handfuls  of  French  bar- 
ley, having  first  boiled  it  tender  in  milk.  Then  butter  a  dish, 
put  it  into  it,  and  send  it  to  the  oven. 

Potatoe  Pudding. 

BOIL  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  potatoes  till  they  are  soft, 
peel  them,  and  mash  them  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  and  rub 
them  through  a  sieve  to  have  them  fine  and  smooth.  Then 
take  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  melted,  half  a  pound  of  fine 
sugar,  and  beat  them  well  together  till  they  are  smooth.  Beat 
six  eggs,  whites  as  well  as  yolks,  and  stir  them  in  with  a  glass 
of  sack  or  brandy.  Half  a  pint  of  currants  may  be  added. 
Boil  it  half  an  hour,  melt  some  butter,  and  put  into  it  a  glass 
of  white  wine,  sweeten  it  with  sugar,  and  pour  it  over  it. 

Or,  boil  two  pounds  of  white  potatoes  till  they  are  soft,  peel 
and  beat  them  in  a  mortar,  and  pulp  them  through  a  sieve  till 
quite  fine.  Then  mix  in  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  melted, 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  three.  Stir 
them  in  with  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar  finely  pounded,  half 
a  pint  of  sack,  and  stir  them  well  together.  Grate  in  half  a 
large  nutmeg,  and  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  cream.  Make  a  puff 
paste,  lay  it  all  over  the  dish,  and  round  the  edges ;  pour  in 
the  pudding,  and  bake  it  till  it  is  of  a  fine  light  brown. 

Carrot  Pudding. 

SCRAPE  a  raw  carrot  very  clean,  and  grate  it.  Take  half  a 
pound  of  the  grated  carrot,  and  a  pound  of  grated  bread  ;  beat 
up  eight  eggs,  leave  out  half  the  whites,  and  mix  the  eggs 
with  half  a  pint  of  cream.  Then  stir  in  the  bread  and  carrot, 
half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  melted,  half  a  pint  of  sack,  three 


PUDDINGS.  191 

.spoonsful  of  orange  flower  water,  and  a  nutmeg  grated. 
Sweeten  it  to  the  palate.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  if  not 
thin  enough,  stir  in  a  little  new  milk  or  cream.  Let  it  be  of 
a  moderate  thickness,  lay  a  puff  paste  all  over  the  dish,  and 
pour  in  the  ingredients.  It  will  take  an  hour's  baking.  If 
intended  to  be  boiled,  melted  butter,  white  wine  and  sugar, 
must  be  added. 

Or,  pare  the  crust  of  two  penny  loaves,  soak  them  in  a  quart 
of  boiling  milk,  and  let  them  stand  till  cold.  Then  grate 
in  two  or  three  large  carrots,  and  put  in  eight  egg.?  well 
beaten,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  melted. 
Grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  and  sweeten  to  the  taste.  Cover  the 
dish  with  ppff  paste,  pour  in  the  ingredients,  and  bake  it  an 
hour. 

Suet  Pudding  boiled. 

TAKE  four  spoonsful  of  flour,  a  pound  of  suet  shred  small, 
four  eggs,  a  spoonful  of  beaten  ginger,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  quart  of  milk.  Mix  the  eggs  and  flour  with  a  pint  of 
the  milk  very  thick,  and  with  the  seasoning  mix  in  the  rest 
of  the  milk  and  suet.  Let  the  batter  be  pretty  thick,  and  boil 
it  two  hours. 

Veal  Suet  Pudding. 

CUT  the  crumb  of  a  three-penny  loaf  into  slices;  boil  and 
pour  two  quarts  of  milk  on  the  bread  ;  one  pound  of  veal  suet 
melted  down  and  poured  into  the  milk.  Add  to  these  one 
pound  of  currants,  ancl  sugar  to  the  taste,  half  a  nutmeg,  and 
six  eggs  well  mixed  together.  If  to  be  baked,  butter  the  dish 
well.  This  will  do  for  either  baking  or  boiling. 

Cabbage  Pudding. 

TAKE  two  pounds  of  beef  suet,  and  as  much  of  the  lean  part 
of  a  leg  of  veal.  Take  a  little  cabbage  and  scald  it ;  then 
bruise  the  suet,  veal,  and  cabbage  together  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar. Season  with  mace,  nutmeg,  ginger,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  some  green  gooseberries,  grapes,  or  barberries.  Mix  them 
all  well  together,  with  the  yolks  of  four  or  five  eggs  well 
beaten.  Wrap  all  up  together  in  a  green  cabbage  leaf,  and 
tie  it  in  a  cloth.  An  hour  will  boil  it. 

Lady  Sunderland's  Pudding. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  cream,  eight  eggs,  leave  out  three  whites, 
five  spoonsful  of  flour,  and  half  a  nutmeg.  When  they  are 
going  to  the  oven,  butter  small  basons,  fill  them  half  full,  bake 


1 92  PUDDINGS. 

them  half  an  hour,  and  grate  some  sugar  over  them.  For  sauce, 
melted  butter,  wine,  and  sugar.  When  they  are  baked,  turn 
them  out  of  the  basons,  and  pour  some  of  the  sauce  over 
them. 

Pith  Pudding. 

PUT  a'proper  quantity  of  the  pith  of  an  ox  all  night  in  water, 
to  soak  out  the  blootl,  and  in  the  morning  strip  it  out  of 
the  skin,  and  beat  it  with  the  back  of  a  spoon  in  orange  wator 
till  it  is  as  fine  as  pap.  Then  take  three  pints  of  thick  cream 
and  boil  in  it  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a  nutmeg  quartered  ^ 
and  a  stick  of  cinnamon  :  add  half  a  pound  of  the  best  Jordan 
almonds,  blanched  in  cold  water,  and  beat  them  with  a  little 
of  the  cream;  and  as  it  dries,  put  in  more  cream.  When 
they  are  all  beaten,  strain  the' cream  from  them  to  the  pith. 
Then  take  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  but  two, 
and  beat  them  well,  and  put  them  to  the  ingredients.  Take 
a  spoonful  of  grated  bread,  or  Naples  biscuit,  and  mix  all  these 
together,  with  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  the  marrow  of  four 
large  hones,  and  a  little  salt.  Fill  them  in  small  ox  or  hog's 
guts,  or  bake  it  in  a  dish,  with  puff  paste  round  the  edges  and 
under  it. 

Citron  Pudding. 

TAKE  a  spoonful  of  fine  flour,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  a  little 
nutmeg,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream.  Mix  them  all  well  toge- 
ther, with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Put  it  in  tea-cups,  and 
stick  in  it  two  ounces  of  citron  cut  very  thin.  Bake  them  in  * 
pretty  quick  oven,  and  turn  them  out  upon  a  China  dish. 

Bread  Pudding. 

SLICE  thin  all  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  into  a  quart  of  milk., 
and  set  it  over  a  chafing  dish  of  coals  till  the  bread  has  soaked 
up  all  the  milk.  Then  put  in  apiece  of  butter,  stir  it  round, 
and  let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold  ;  or  the  milk  may  be  boiled  and 
poured  over  the  bread,  and  covered  up  close,  which  will 
equally  answer  the  same  purpose.  Then  take  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs,  and  the  whites  of  three,  and  beat  them  up  with  a  little 
rose  water  and  nutmeg,  and  a  little  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  all 
well  together,  and  boil  it  an  hour. 

Or, cut  thin  all  the  crumb  of  astale  penny  loaf,  and  putit  into 
a  quart  of  cream.  Set  it  over  a  slow  fire  till  scalding  hot,  and 
then  Jet  it  stand  till  cold.  Beat  up  the  bread  and  cream  well 
together,  and  grate  in  some  nutmeg.  Take  twelve  bitter  al- 
monds, boil  them  in  t-.vo  spoonsful  of  water,  pour  the  water  to 
the  cream,  stir  it  in  with  a  little  salt,  and  sweeten  it  to  the 


PUDDINGS,  19$ 

taste.  Blanch  the  almonds,  and  heat  them  in  a  mortar,,  with 
two  spoonsful  of  rose  or  orange-Mower  water  till  they  are  a 
fine,  paste.  Then  mix  them  by  degrees  with  the  cream.,  and 
when  well  mixed,  take  t!ie  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  whites 
of  four;  beat  them  well,  and  mix  them  with  the  cream,  and 
th'-n  mix  them  all  together.  A  bowl  or  bason  will  be  best  to 
boil  it  in  ;  but  if  a  cloth  is  used,  dip  it  in  the  hot  water,  and 
flour  it  well.  Tie  it  loose, and  boil  it  an  hour.  Take  care  that 
the  water  boil  when  it  is  put  in,  and  that  it  keep  boiling  all 
the  uri".  When  enough,  turn  it  into  the  dish.  .  Melt  some 
bimer,  and  put  into  it  two  or  three  spoonsful  of;  white  wine  or 
sack  ;  give  it  a  boil,  and  pour  it  over  ;the  pudding.  Then 
strew  a  good  deal  of  fine  sugar  all  over  the  pudding  and  dish, 
and  send  it  hot  to  table. 

A  baked  Bread  Pudding. 

RASP  or  crumble  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  take  the  same 
qu  ntity  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  two  whites,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  ginger,  half  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned,  half  a 
pound  of'  currants  clean  washed  and  picked,  and  a  litile  salt, 
Mix  first  the  bread  and  flour,  ginger,  salt,  and  sugar,  to  the 
palace,  then  the  eggs,  and  as  much  milk  as  will  make  it  like  a 
good  batter  ;  then  the  fruit.  Butter  the  dish,  pour  it  in,  and 
bake  it. 

Or,  boil  half  a  pint  of  milk  with  a  bit  of  cinnamon ;  take  four 
eggs,  and  he  whites  well  beaten,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  grated, 
half  a  pound  of  suet  chopped  fine,  and  as  much  bread  as  ne- 
cessary. Pour  the  milk  on  the  bread  and  suet,  keep  mixing 
it  till  cold,  then  put  in  the  lemon  peel,  eggs,  a  little  sugar,  and 
some  nutmeg  grated  fine.  This  pudding  may  be  either  baked 
or  boiled. 

A  Spoonful  Pudding. 
« 

TAKE  a  spoonful  of  flour,  a  spoonful  of  cream  or  milk,  an 
egg,  a  little  nutmeg,  ginger^,  and  salt.  Mix  all  together,  and 
boil  it  in  a  little  bason  half  an  hour.  Or  add  a  few  currants^ 

Tansy  Pudding. 

To  four  Naples  biscuits  grated,  put  as  much  boiling  hot 
cream  as  will  wet  them.  Then  beat  up  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  and  have  ready  a  few  chopped  tansy  leaves,  with  as 
much  spinach  as  will  make  it  a  pretty  green.  Be  careful  not 
to  put  in  too  much  tansy,  as  that  will  make  it  bitter.  When" 
the  cream  is  cold,  mix  all  together  with  a  little  sugar,  and  set 
jt  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  thick.  Then  take  it  off,  and  when 
cold  put  it  in  a  cloth  well  buttered  and  floured.  Tie  it  UH 

o 


194  PUDDINGS. 

close,  and  let  it  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Take  it  up  in  a 
bason,  and  let  it  stand  one  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  turn  it 
out  carefully,  and  put  round  it  white  wine  sauce. 

Or,  blanch  four  ounces  of  almonds,  and  beat  them  very  fine 
with  rose-water.  Pour  a  pint  of  cream  boiling  hot  on  a  French 
roll  sliced  very  thin.  Beat  four  eggs  well,  and  mix  with  them 
a  little  sugar  and  nutmeg-  grated,  a  glass  of  brandy,  a  little 
juice  of  tansy,  and  the  juice  of  spinach,  to  make  it  green.  Put 
all  the  ingredients  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  give  it  a  gentle  boil.  It  may  be  either  boiled  or 
baked. 

White  Puddings  in  Skins. 

.  j. 

BOIL  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  milk  till  it  is  soft,  having  first 
washed  the  rice  well  in  warm  water.  Put  it  into  a  sieve  to 
drain,  and  beat  half  a  pound  of  Jordan  almonds  very  fine  with 
some  rose-water.  Wash  and  dry  a  pound  of  currants,  cut  into 
small  bits  a  pound  of  hog's  lard,  beat  up  six  eggs  well,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  grated,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  a 
little  mace,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  them  well  together,  fill  the 
skins,  and  boil  them. 

Quince,  Apricot,  or  White  Pear-Plumb  Pudding. 

HAVING  scalded  the  quinces  till  thev  are  very  tender,  pare 
them  thin,  and  scrape  off  the  soft.  Mix  it  with  sugar  till  it  is 
very  sweet,  and  add  a  little  ginger  and  cinnamon.  To  a  pint 
of  cream  put  three  or  four  yolks  of  eggs,  and  stir  it  into  the 
quinces  till  they  are  of  a  good  thickness.  Remember  to  make 
it  pretty  thick.  Butter  the  dish,  pour  it  in,  and  bake  it. 
Apricots,  or  white-pear  plumbs  may  be  treated  in  the  same 
manner. 

Cowslip  Pudding. 

CUT  and  pound  small  the  flowers  of  a  peck  of  cowslips, 
with  half  a  pound  of  Naples  biscuits  grated,  and  three  pints  of 
cream.  Boil  them  a  little,  then  take  them  off  the  fire,  and 
beat  up  sixteen  eggs  with  a  little  cream  and  rose-water. 
Sweeten  to  the  palate.  Mix  it  all  well  together,  butter  a  dish, 
and  pour  it  in.  Bake  it,  and  when  enough,  throw  fine  sugar 
over  it,  and  serve  it  up.  New  milk  will  do  well  enough  for 
these  sorts  of  puddings,  if  cream  cannot  be  had. 

Pearl  Barley  Pudding. 

WASH  a  pound  of  pearl  barley  clean,  put  to  it  three  quarts 
of  new  milk,  half  a  pound  of  double  refined  sugar  and  a  nut- 


PUDDINGS.  195 

. 
meg  grated ;  then  put  it  into  a  deep  pan,  and  bake  it  with 

brown  bread.  Take  it  out  of  the  oven,  beat  up  six  eggs,  and 
mix  all  well  together.  Butter  a  dish,  pour  it  in,  bake  it  again 
an  hour,  and  it  will  be  very  good. 

French  Barley  Pudding. 

To  six  eggs  well  beaten  put  a  quart  of  cream,  half  the 
whites,  sweeten  to  the  palate,  a  little  orange  flower  or  rose- 
water,  and  a  pound  of  melted  butter.  Then  put  in  six  hand- 
fuls  of  French  barley,  which  has  been  boiled  tender  in  milk. 
Butter  the  dish,  and  put  it  in.  It  will  take  as  long  baking  as 
a  venison  pasty. 

Chesnut  Pudding. 

BOIL  a  dozen  and  a  half  of  chesnuts  in  a  saucepan  of  water 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  blanch,  peel,  and  beat  them  in 
a  marble  mortar,  with  a  little  orange-flower  or  rose-water  and 
sack,  till  they  come  to  a  fine  thin  paste.  Then  beat  up  twelve, 
eggs  with  half  the  whites,  and  mix  them  well.  Grate  half  a 
nutmeg,  a  little  salt,  and  mix  them  with  three  pints  of  cream, 
and  half  a  pound  of  melted  butter.  Sweeten  it  to  the  palate, 
and  mix  all  together.  Put  it  over  the  fire,  and  keep  stirring 
it  till  it  is  thick.  Lay  a  puff  paste  all  over  the  dish,  pour  in  the 
mixture,  and  bake  it.  When  cream  cannot  be  had,  take  three 
pints  of  milk.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  stir  it  into 
the  milk.  Set  it  over  the,  fire,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  is 
scalding  hot,  and  then  mix  it  instead  of  cream. 

Sweetmeat  Pudding. 

HAVING  put  a  thin  puff  paste  all  over  the  dish,  take  candied 
orange,  lemon  peel,  and  citron,  of  each  an  ounce.  Slice  them 
thin,  and  lay  them  all  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  beat 
eight  yolks  of  eggs  and  two  whites,  near  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
and  half  a  pound  of  melted  butter.  Beat  all  well  together, 
and  pour  it  on  the  sweetmeats  as  soon  as  the  oven  is  ready, 
which  must  not  be  too  hot.  An  hour  or  less  will  bake  it< 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. 

CUT  a  penny  loaf  into  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  as 
for  tea.  Butter  the  dish,  and  lay  slices  all  over  it.  Then 
strew  a  few  currants  washed  and  picked  clean,  then  a  row  of 
bread  and  butter,  then  a  few  currants,  and  so  on  till  the  bread 
and  butter  is  all  in:  take  a  pint  of  milk,  beat  up  four  eggs,  a 
little  salt,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated.  Mix  all  together  with 
sugar  to  the  taste  :  then  pour  it  over  the  bread,  and  bake  it 

O  3 


1  §6  PUDDINGS. 

half  an  hour.    A  puff  paste  under  does  best.     Two  spoonsful 
of  rose-water  may  be  added,  if  approved  of. 

Cheese-curd  Pudding. 

TURN  a  gallon  of  milk  with  rennet,  and  drain  off  all  the  curd 
from  the  whey.  Put  the  curd  into  a  mortar,  and  beat  it  with 
half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  till  tue  butter  and  curd  are  well 
mixed.  Then  beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  the  whites  of 
three,  and  strain  them  to  the  curd:  grate  two  Naples  biscuits, 
or  half  a  penny  roll.  Mix  all  the.-e  together,  and  sweeten  to 
the  palate.  Butter  pattypans,  and  fill  t  tern  with  the  inure- 
dient.  Bake  them  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  and  when 
they  are  done,  turn  them  out  into  a  dish.  Cut  citmnand  can- 
died orange  peel  into  little  narrow  bits,  about  an  inch  long, 
and  blanched  almonds  cut  in  long  slips.  Stick  them  here  and 
there  on  the  tops  of  the  puddings,  according  to  fancy.  Pour 
melted  butter,  with  a  little  sack  in  it,  into  the  dish,  and  throw 
fine  sugar  all  over  the  puddings  and  dish. 

tipple  Pudding. 

PARE  twelve  large  pippins,  and  take  out  the  cores.  Put  them 
into  a  saucepan,  with  four  or  five  spoonsful  of  water,  and  boil 
them  till  soft  and  thick  :  beat  them  well,  stir  in  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar,  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  and  the  peel  of  one  cut 
thin  and  beat  fine  in  a  mortar,  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs 
beaten.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  bake  it  in  a  slack  oven. 
When  nearly  done,  throw  over  it  a  little  fine  sugar.  It  may 
be  baked  with  a  puff  paste  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and 
round  the  edges  of  it. 

Apple  Dumplins. 

HAVING  pared  the  apples,  take  out  the  core  with  an  apple- 
scraper,  and  fill  the  hole  with  quince  or  orange  marmalade,  or 
sugar :  take  a  piece  of  cold  paste,  and  make  a  hole  in  it.  Lay 
in  the  apple,  and  put  another  piece  of  paste  in  the  same  form, 
and  close  it  up  round  the  side  of  the  apple,  which  is  much 
better  thnn  gathering  it  in  a  lump  at  one  end.  Tie  it  in  a 
cloth,  and  boil  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  them  up 
>vith  melted  butter  poured  over  them. 

Gooseberry  Pudding. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  green  gooseberries,  and  scald  them  in 
water  till  soft.  Put  them  into  a  sieve  to  drain,  and  when  cold 
work  them  through  a  hair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a  clean  wooden 
spoon.  Then  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  same  of  but- 


PUDDINGS.  197 

ter,  four  ounces  of  Naples  biscuits,  and  six  eggs  beaten.  Mix 
all  together  an:!  beat  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Pour  it  in 
an  carter,:;  dish,  without  paste,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour. 

Suet  Dumplins  with  Currants. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  a  pound  of  suet,  a  little 
salt  and  nutmeg,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  ginger,  and  what  flour 
will  make  it  into  a  light  paste.  When  the  water  boils,  make 
the  paste  into  dumplins,  rolled  with  a  little  flour,  the  size  of 
a  goose's  egg.  Throw  them  into  the  water,  and  move  them 
g  nr!\  to  prevent  their  sticking.  A  little  more  than  half  an 
hour  will  boil  them. 

Raspberry  Dumplins. 

MAKE  a  good  puff  paste,  and  roll  it.  Spread  over  it  rasp- 
berrv  jam,  roll  it  up,  and  boil  it  an  hour.  Cut  it  into  five  slices, 
pour  melted  butter  into  the  dish,  and  grated  sugar  round  it. 

Pennyroyal  Dumplins. 

GRATE  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  take  three  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  beef  suet,  the  same  of  currants,  four  eggs,  a  little 
brandy,  a  little  thyme  and  pennyroyal,  and  a  handful  of  pars- 
ley shred.  Mix  all  well,  roll  them  up  with  flour,  and  put  them 
into  cloths.  Three  quarters  of  an  hour  will  boil  them. 

Yeast  Dumplins. 

WITH  flour,  water,  yeast,  and  salt,  make  a  light  dough  as 
for  bread,  cover  it  with  a  cloth,  and  set  it  before  the  fire,  for 
half  an  hour.  Then  have  a  saucepan  of  water  on  the  fire, 
and  when  it  boils  take  the  dough,  and  make  it  into  little 
round  balls,  as  big  as  a  large  hen's  egg.  Then  flatten  them, 
with  the  hand,  put  them  into  the  boiling  water,  and  a  few 
minutes  will  do  them.  Take  care  that  they  do  not  fall  to  the 
bottom  of  the  pot  or  saucepan,  for  they  will  then  be  heavy, 
and  be  sure  to  keep  the  water  boiling  all  the  time.  When 
enough  take  them  up,  and  lay  them  in  the  dish,  with  melted 
butter  in  a  boat.  To  save  trouble,  dough  may  be  had  at  the 
baker's,  which  will  do  equally  as  well. 

Norfolk  Dumplins. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  make 
them  into  a  good  thick  batter  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  clean 
saucepan  of  water  boiling,  and  drop  the  batter  into  it,  and 
two  or  three  minutes  will  boil  them;  but  be  particularly  care- 
ful that  the  water  boils  fast  when  the  batter  is  put  in.  Theu 


198  PUDDINGS. 

throw  them  into  a  sieve  to  drain,  turn  them  in  a  dish,  and 
stir  a  lump  of  fresh  butter  into  them.  They  will  be  very  good 
if  eaten  hot. 

Hard  Dumplins. 

MAKE  some  flour  and  water,  with  a  little  salt,  into  a  sort  of 
paste.  Roll  them  in  balls  as  big  as  a  turkey's  egg.  lloll  them 
in  a  little  flour,  throw  them  into  boiling  water,  and  half  an 
hour  will  boil  them.  They  are  best  boiled  with  a  good  piece 
of  beef.  Add,  for  change,  a  few  currants.  Serve  them  up 
with  melted  butter  in  a  boat. 

Batter  Pudding. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  milk,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and 
the  whites  of  three,  and  mix  them  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
milk.  Take  six  spoonsful  of  flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and 
one  of  beaten  ginger.  Mix  them  all  together,  boil  them  an 
hour  and  a  quarter,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  the  pudding. 
If  approved,  put  in  half  a  pound  of  prunes  or  currants,  and 
two  or  three  more  eggs. 

Or,  take  a  quart  of  milk,  mix  six  spoonsful  of  flour  with 
a  little  of  the  milk  first,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  of  beaten 
ginger,  and  two  of  the  tincture  of  saffron.  Then  mix  all 
together,  and  boil  it  an  hour. 

Baiter  Pudding  without  Eggs. 

Mix  six  spoonsful  of  flour  with  a  little  milk,  a  tea  spoonful 
of  salt,  two  tea-spoonsful  of  beaten  ginger,  and  two  of  the 
tincture  of  safFon.  Mix  it  with  near  a  quart  of  milk,  and  boil 
it  an  hour.  Fruit  may  be  added. 

A  Grateful  Pudding. 

To  a  pound  of  flour  add  a  pound  of  white  bread  grated. 
Take  eight  eggs,  but  only  half  the  whites.  Beat  them  up,  and 
mix  with  them  a  pint  of  new  milk.  Then  stir  in  the  bread  and 
flour,  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned,  a  pound  of  currants,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  a  little  beaten  ginger.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether, and  either  bake  or  boil  it.  It  will  'take  three  quarters 
of  an  hour  baking.  Cream  instead  of  milk,  will  be  a  great 
improvement. 

Ratafa  Pudding. 

BOIL  a  quart  of  cream,  with  a  laurel  leaf;  take  it  out,  and 
break  in  half  a  pound  of  Naples  biscuits,  half  a  pound  of  but- 


PIES.  199 


ter,  some  sack,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  salt.  Take  it  off  the  fire, 
cover  it  up,  and  when  almost  cold,  put  in  two  ounces  of 
blanched  almonds  beaten  fine,  and  the  yolks  of  five  eggs.  Mix 
all  together,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour  in  a  moderately  heated 
oven.  Before  it  is  put  into  the'oven  grate  a  little  sugar  over 
it. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 
PIES. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

x\s  the  heat  of  your  oven  must  be  regulated  by  what  you 
intend  to  bake,  the  following  rules  should  be  carefully  at- 
tended to.  Light  paste  requires  a  moderate  oven,  but  not 
too  slow,  as  that  will  deprive  it  of  the  light  appearance  it 
should  have;  and  too  quick  an  oven  will  catch  and  burn  it, 
without  giving  it  time  to  rise.  Tarts  that  are  iced  require  a 
slow  oven, 'or  the  icing  will  be  brown  before  the  paste  is  pro- 
perly baked.  Raised  pies  must  have  a  quick  oven,  and  be 
well  closed  up,  or  your  pie  will  fall  in  the  sides.  It  should 
have  no  water  put  in  till  just  before  you  put  it  into  the  oven, 
as  that  will  make  the  crust  look  sodden,  and  perhaps  be  the 
cause  of  the  pie  running,  which  will  infallibly  spoil  it. 

Different  kinds  of  Pastes  for  Tarts,  Pies,  Sfc. 

CRISP  paste  for  tarts  is  made  thus:  Mix  an  ounce  of  loaf 
sugar,  beat  and  sifted,  with  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  and  make 
it  into  a  stiff  paste  with  a  gill  of  boiling  cream.  Work  three 
ounces  of  butter  into  it,  roll  it  very  thin,  and  having  made 
the  tarts,  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  a  little,  and  rub  Jjt  over 
them  with  a  feather,  and  bake  them  as  above  directed? " 

*  Icing  for  Tarts. 

• 

BEAT  the  white  of  an  egg  to  strong  froth,  and  put  in,  by 
degrees,  four  ounces  of  double-refined  sugar,  with  as  much 
gum  as  will  lie  on  sixpence,  beat  and  sifted  fine.  Beat  them 
naif  an  hour,  and  then  lay  it  thin  on  the  tarts. 

PuffPaste. 

RUB  a  pound  of  butter  very  fine  into  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of 
flour.  Make  it  up  into  a  light  paste  with  cold  water,  just  stiff 


PIES. 

•enough  to  work.it.  Then  roll  it  out  about  the  thickness  of  a 
<:rown  piece,  and  put  a  layer  of  butter  ad  over.  Sprinkle  ou 
a  htile  flour,  double  it  up,  and  10';  it  out  again.  Double  it 
and  roll  it  out  sexen  or  ei.ght  times,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  all 
sorts  oi  pies  and  tarts  that  require  a  puff  paste. 

Or,  beat  the  wh  te  oi  an  egg  to  a  strong  froth,  and  mix  it 
with  as  much  water  as  will  make  three  quarters  of  a  poiii'd  of 
flour  into  a  to.erably  stiff  paste.  Rofl  it  out  vet>  thin,  lay 
the  th.rd  part  of  a  half  pound  of  butter  in  thin  piece.-*,  and 
.dredge  it  with  a  little  more  flour.  Roll  it  up  n^l,,  then  roll  it 
out  again,  and  continue  to  do  so  until  half  a  pound  ol  hotter 
a:.d  .flour  is  used.  Cut  it  in  square  pieces,  and  make  the  tarts. 
This  will  require  a  quicker  oven  than  for  your  crisp  paste. 

Paste  for  Custards. 

POUK  half  a  pound  of  br  iling  butter  on  two  pounds  of  flour, 
with  as  much  water  as  will  make  it  into  a  good  paste.  Work 
it  well,  and  when  it  has  cooled  a  little,  rai^e  t  e  custards,  put 
a  paper  round  the  inside  of  them,  and  when  they  arc  half 
•baked,  fill  them. 

In  making  any  kind  of  dripping-paste,  boil  it  four  or  five 
minutes  in  a  good  quantity  of  water,  to  take  the  strength  oft7 
it. 

Ccld  Crust  with  Suet. 

SHRED  the  suet  fine,  pour  part  of  it  into  the  flour,  then 
make  it  into  a  paste,  and  roll  it  out  as  before,  with  this  dif- 
ference, make  use  of  suet  instead  of  butter. 

A  good  Crust  for  great  Pics. 

PUT  the  volks  of  three  eggs  to  a  peck  of  flour,  and  in  some 
boiling  \\ater,  then  put  half  a  pound  of  suet,  and  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  butter.  Skim  off  the  butter  and  suet,  and  as 
much  of  the  liquor  as  will  make  it  alight  gooa  crust.  Work 
it  up  well,  and  roll  it  out. 

A  standing  Crust  for  great  Pies. 

TAKE  a  peck  rf  flour;  and  six  pounds  of  butter  boiled  in  a 
gallon  of  water.  Skim  it  off  into  the  flour,  and  as  little  of  the 
liquor  as  possible.  Work  it  up  well  into  a  paste,  and  then 
pull  it  into  pieces  till  it  is  cold  :  make  it  up  into  the  form  re- 
quired. 1  his  paste  is  proper  for  the  walls  of  a  goose  pie. 

Lamb  or  Vtal  Pies. 

CUT  lamb  or  veal  into  little  pieces,  and  season  if  with  pep- 
per, salt,  cloves,  mace,  and  nutn  eg,  beat  fine.  Make  a  good 
putt  paste  crust,  lay  it  into  the  dish,  then  lay  in  the  meat,  and 
strew  on  it  some  stoned  rai-.hs  and  currants  clean  washed,  and 
some  sugar :  add  some  forcemeat  balls  made  sweet,  and  in  the 


Plies.  201 

.-summer  some  artichoke  bottoms  boiled,  and  in  the  winter, 
scalded  grapes.  Boil  Spanish  potatoes  cut  in  pieces,  candied 
citron,  candied  orange,  lemon  peel,  and  three  or  four  blades 
of  mace.  Put  butter  on  the  top,  close  up  the  pie,  and  bake  it. 
Against  its  return  from  the  oven,  have  ready  a  liaison  made 
thus:  take  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  mix  in  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs.  Stir  it  well  together  over  the  fire,  one  wav,  all  the 
time,  till  it  is  thick:  take  it  off,  stir  in  sugar  enough  to  sweeten 
it,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon  :  put  it  hot  into  the 
pie,  close  it  up  again,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

Savoury  Veal  Pie. 

CUT  a  breast  of  veal  into  pieces,  season  it  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  lay  it  ail  into  the  crust.  Boil  six  or  eight  hard  PI  _>  s, 
but  take  only  the  yolks ;  put  them  into  the  pie  here  and  mere, 
then  fill  the  dish  almost  full  of  second  stock,  put  on  the  lid, 
and  bake  it  well. 

-   Beef  Steak  Pie. 

BEAT  some  rump  steaks  with  a  rolling-pin,  and  season  them 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  the  palate.  Make  a  good  crust,  lay  in 
the  steaks,  and  then  pour  in  as  much  \\ater  as  will  half  fill  the 
dish.  Put  on  the  crust,  and  bake  it  well. 

Ox  Cheek  P-ie. 

HAVING  baked  the  ox-cheek,  taking  care  not  to  do  it  too 
much,  let  it  lie  in  the  oven  all  night,  and  it  will  be  ready  for 
further  use  the  next  day.  Make  a  fine  puff  paste  crust,  and  let 
the  side  and  top-crust  be  thick.  The  dish  must  be  deep,  in 
order  to  hold  a  good  deal  of  gravy.  Cover  the  inside  of  it 
with  crust,  then  cut  ail  the  flesh,  kernels,  and  fat  off'  the 
head,  with  the  palate  cut  in  pieces.  Cut  all  the  meat  into 
little  pieces,  as  if  it  were  for  a  hash,  and  lay  it  in  the  dish. 
Take  an  ounce  of  truffles  and  morels,  and  throw  them  over 
the  meat,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  boiled  hard,  a  gill  of  pickled 
mushrooms,  if  fresh  ones  are  not  to  be  had  ;  put  in  plenty  of 
forcemeat  balls,  a  few  artichoke  bottoms,  or  asparagus  tops,  if 
in  season.  Season  the  pie  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  it 
with  the  gravy  it  was  baked  in.  If  the  head  were  rightly  sea- 
soned before  it  went  to  the  oven,  it  will  want  very  little  more 
when  it  comes  out.  Then  put  on  the  lid  and  bake  it,  and 
the  pie  will*be  enough  as  soon  as  the  crust  is  properly  baked. 

.     CaJfs  Foot  Pie. 

HAVING  put  the  calf's  feet  into  a  saucepan,  with  three 
quarts  of  water,  and  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  let  them 


202  PIES. 

boil  softly  till  there  is  about  a  pint  and  a  half  only  :  take  out 
the  feet,  strain  the  liquor,  and  make  a  good  crust.  Cover  the 
dish,  then  pick  off  the  flesh  from  the  bones,  and  lay  half  in  the 
dish  :  strew  over  it  half  a  pound  of  currants,  clean  washed  and 
picked,  and  half  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned.  Then  lay  on  the 
rest  of  the  meat,  skim  the  liquor,  sweeten  it  to  the  taste,  and 
put  in  half  a  pint  of  white  wine.  Then  pour  all  into  the  dish, 
put  on  the  lid,  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Mutton  Pie. 

TAKE  off  the  skin  and  inside  fat  of  a  loin  of  mutton,  and 
cut  it  in  steaks;  season  it  well  with  pepper  and  salt  to  the 
palate.  Lay  it  into  the  crust,  fill  it,  and  pour  in  as  much 
water  as  will  almost  fill  the  dish  :  put  on  the  crust,  and  bake  it 
well. 

Venison  Pasty. 

HAVING  boned  a  breast  or  shoulder  of  venison,  season  it 
well  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace  ;  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish,  with 
the  best  part  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  cut  in  slices,  and  laid  over 
the  venison  :  pour  in  a  large  glass  of  red  wine,  put  a  coarse 
paste  over  it,  and  bake  it  two  hours  in  an  oven.  Then  lay  the 
venisen  into  a  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  and  a  pound  of  but- 
ter over  it :  make  a  good  puff  paste,  and  lay  it  near  half  an 
inch  thick  round  the  edge  of  the  dish  ;  roll  out  the  lid,  which 
must  be  somewhat  thicker  than  the  paste  on  the  edge  of  the 
dish,  and  lay  it  on  :  then  roll  out  another  lid  pretty  thin,  and 
cut  it  in  flowers,  leaves,  or  whatever  form  is  required,  and  lay 
it  on  the  lid.  If  the  pie  should  not  be  immediately  wanted,  it 
will  keep  in  the  pot  it  was  baked  in,  eight  or  ten  days  ;  but 
in  that  case,  keep  the  crust  on,  to  prevent  the  air  getting  into 
it. 

Savoury  Veal  Pie. 

SEASON  a  loin  of  veal,  cut  into  steaks,  with  salt,  pepper, 
nutmeg,  and  beaten  mace ;  lay  the  meat  in  the  dish,  with 
sweetbreads  seasoned,  and  the  yolks  of  six  hard  eggs,  a  pint  of 
oysters,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  gravy  :  lay  a  good  puff  paste 
round  the  dish,  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cover  it  with  a  lid  of 
the  same  thickness.  Bake  it  an  hour  and  a  quarter  in  a  quick 
oven,  and  when  it  is  taken  out  of  the  oven,  cut  off  the  lid  ; 
and  divide  it  into  eight  or  ten  pieces,  sticking  them  round  the 
inside  of  the  rim.  Cover  the  meat  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Ham  Pie. 

CUT  cold  boiled  ham  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  put  a  good  thick  crust  over  the  dish :  put  in  a  layer  of 


PIES.  203 

ham,  and  shake  a  little  white  pepper  over  it ;  take  a  large 
young  fowl,  clean  picked,  gutted,  washed,  and  singed.  Put  a 
little  white  pepper  and  salt  in  the  belly,  and  rub  a  very  little 
salt  on  the  outside.  Lay  the  fowl  on  the  ham,  boil  some 
eggs  hard,  put  in  the  yolks,  and  cover  all  with  the  ham. 
Then  shake  some  white  pepper  on  the  ham,  and  put  on  the 
top  crust.  Bake  it  well,  and  have  ready  against  it  comes  out 
of  the  oven,  some  very  rich  beef  gravy,  enough  to  fill  the  pie  : 
then  lay  on  the  crust  again,  and  send  it  to  table.  Some 
truffles  and  morels  boiled,  or  some  fresh  mushrooms,  or  dried 
ones,  put  into  the  pie,  are  a  great  improvement. 

Calf  s- Head  Pie. 

HAVING  cleansed  and  boiled  the  head  tender,  carefully  take 
off  the  flesh  as  whole  as  possible :  take  out  the  eyes,  and 
slice  the  tongue ;  make  a  good  puff  paste  crust,  cover  the 
dish,  and  lay  on  the  meat.  Throw  the  tongue  over  it,  and 
lay  the  eyes,  cut  in  two,  at  each  corner.  Season  it  with  a  very 
little  white  pepper  and  salt,  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor 
it  was  boiled  in,  lay  on  it  a  thick  top  crust,  and  bake  it  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven.  In  the  meantime,  boil  the  bones  of 
the  head  in  two  quarts  of  second  stock,  with  two  or  three  blades 
of  mace,  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  whole  pepper,  a  large 
onion,  and  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs.  Let  it  boil  till  it  is  re- 
duced to  about  a  pint ;  strain  it  off,  and  add  two  spoonsful  of 
ketchup,  three  of  red  wine,  a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  half  an  ounce  of  truffles  and  morels.  Season  to 
the  palate,  and  boil  it.  Boil  half  the  brains  with  some  sage, 
beat  them,  and  twelve  leaves  of  sage  chopped  fine :  stir  all 
together,  and  give  it  a  boil.  Take  the  other  part  of  the  brains, 
and  beat  them,  with  some  of  the  sage  chopped  fine,  a  little 
lemon  peel  finely  minced,  and  half  a  small  nutmeg  grated. 
Beat  it  up  with  an  egg,  and  fry  it  in  little  cakes  of  a  fine  light 
brown.  Boil  six  eggs  hard,  of  which  take  only  the  yolks;  and 
when  the  pie  comes  out  of  the  oven,  take  off  the  lid,  lay  the 
'eggs  and  cakes  over  it,  and  pour  in  all  the  sauce  Send  it  hot 
to  table  without  the  lid. 

Goose  Pie. 

TAKE  half  a  peck  of  flour,  and  make  the  walls  of  a  goose 
pie,  as  directed  in  the  second  article  of  this  chapter  respecting 
the  different  kinds  of  pastes.  Having  raised  the  crust  just  big 
enough  to  hold  a  large  goose,  take  a  pickled  dried  tongue 
boiled  tender  enough  to  peel,  and  cut  off  the  root:  bone  a 
goose  and  a  large  fowl ;  take  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace 
beat  fine,  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  beaten  pepper,  and  three  tea- 


204  PIES. 

spoonsful  of  salt.  Mix  all  together,  and  season  the  fowl  and 
goose  with  it.  Then  lay  the  fowl  in  the  goose,  the*  tongue  in 
the  fowl,  and  the  goose  in  the  same  manner  as  if  whole.  Put 
half  a  pound  of  butter  on  the  top,  and  put  on  the  lid.  This 
pie  may  be  eaten  either  hot  or  cold. 

Yorkshire  Goose.  Pie. 

SPLIT  a  large  fat  goose  down  the  back,  and  take  out  all  the 
bones  ;  treat  a  turkey  and  two  ducks  the  same  way,  and  sea- 
son them  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  also  six  woodcocks. 
Lay  tht  goose  down  on  a  clean  dish,  with  the  skin-side  clown, 
and  lay  the  turkey  into  the  goose  in  the  same  manner.  Have 
reudy  a  large  hare,  well  cleaned,  and  cut  in  pieces,  and  stewed 
in  the  oven,  with  a  pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
mace  beat  fine,  the  same  of  white  pepper,  ;:nd  salt  to  the  taste. 
Stew  it  till  the  meat  leaves  the  bones,  and  skim  the  butter  off 
the  gnw.  Pick  the  meat  clean  off,  and  beat  it  very  fine  in  a 
marble  mortar  witii  the  butter  taken  off,  arid  then  lay  it  in  the 
turkey.  Take  twentv-four  pounds  of  the  finest  flour,  six 
pounds  of  bu;ter,  and  half  a  pound  of  fresh  rendered  suet. 
Make  the  paste  pretty  thick,  andr,aise  the  pie  in  an  oval  form. 
Roil  out-a  lump  of  paste,  and  cut  it  into  vine-leaves,  or  any 
other  form  ;  then  rub  the  pie  with  the  yolks  of  eg^s,  and  put 
the  ornaments  on  the  walls  :  turn  the  hare,  turkev,  and  goose, 
upside  down,  and  lay  them  in  the  pie,  with  the  ducks  at  each 
end,  and  the  woodcocks  at  the  sides;  make  the  lid  pretty 
thick,  and  put  it  on.  Ornament  the  lid,  but  make  a  hole  in 
the  middle  of  it,  and  make  the  walls  of  the  pie  an  inch  and  a 
half  higher  than  the  lid.  Then  rub  it  all  over  with  the  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  bind  it  round  with  three  fold  paper,  and  lay  the 
same  over  the  top.  Bake  it  four  hours;  and  when  it  comes 
out,  melt  two  pounds  of  butter  in  the  gravy  that  comes  from 
the  hare,  and  pour  it  hot  into  the  pie  through  a  funnel.  Close 
it  well  up,  and  do  not  cut  it  in  less  than  eight  or  ten  days. 
If  the  pie  is  to  be  sent  to  any  distance,  it  will  be  necessary,  in 
order  to  prevent  the  air  getting  to  it,  to  stop  up  the  hole  in  the 
middle  of  the  lid  with  cold  butter. 

Yorkshire  Gibkt  Pie. 

PUT  a  tea-cup  full  of  grots  into  the  blood  of  the  goose 
while  it  is  warm,  in  order  to  swell  them.  Grate  the  crumb  of 
a  penny  loaf,  and  pour  on  it  a  gill  of  boiling  milk.  Shred  half 
a  pound  of  beef  suet  very  fine,  chop  four  or  five  leaves  of  sage 
and  two  leeks  very  small,  put  three  yolks  of  eggs,  and  season 
it  to  the  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Mix  them  all 


PIES.  205 

up  together,  and  have  ready  the  giblets  well  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Lay  them  round  a  deep  dish,  and  put  a 
pound  of  fat  beef  over  the  pudding  in  the  middle  of  the  dish. 
Pour  in  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  lay  on  a  good  paste,  and  bake  it 
in  an  oven  moderately  heated. 

Common  GiLlet  Pie. 

CLF.AN  two  pair  of  giblets  well,  and  put  all  but  the  livers 
into  the  saucepan,  with  two  quarts  of  water,  twenty  corns  of 
wlioie  pepper,  three  blades  of  mace,  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs, 
and  a  large  onion.  Cover  them  close,  and  let  them  stew  very 
slowly  till  they  are  quite  tender.  Have  a  good  crust  ready, 
cover  the  dish,  lay  at  the  bottom  a  fine  rump  steak  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  put  in  the  giblets  with  the  livers,  and 
strain  the  liquor  they  were  stewed  in  :  season  it  with  salt,  and 
pour  it  into  the  pie.  Put  on  the  lid,  and  bake  it  an  hour  and 
a  half. 

Duck  Pie. 

TAKE  two  ducks,  scald  them,  and  make  them  very  clean; 
cut  off  the  feet,  the  pinions,  the  neck,  and  head  ;  take  out  the 
gizzards,  livers,  and  hearts,  and  pick  all  clean,  and  scald 
them.  Pick  out  the  fat  of  the  inside,  lay  a  good  puff  paste 
crust  all  over  the  dish,  season  the  ducks  both  inside  and  out 
with  pepper  and  salt$  and  lay  them  in  the  dish,  with  the  gib- 
lets at  each  end  properly  seasoned.  Put  in  as  much  water  as 
will  nearly  fill  the  pie,  and  lay  on  the  crust. 

Pigeon  Pie. 

LET  the  pigeons  be  very  nicely  picked  and  cleaned,  and 
season  them  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  a  large  piece  of  fresh 
butter,  with  pepper  and  salt,  into  their  bellies.  Then  cover 
the  dish  with  a  puff  paste  crust,  and  lay  in  the  pigeons,  and 
put  between  them  the  necks,  gizzards,  livers,  pinions,  and 
hearts,  with  the  yolk  of  a  hard  egg,  and  a  beef  steak  in  the 
middle.  Put  as  much  water  as  will  nearly  fill  the  dish,  and 
lay  on  the  top  crust,  and  bake  it  well. 

Savoury  Chicken  Pie. 

TAKE  small  chickens  and  season  them  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
mace.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  into  each  of  them,  and  lay  them 
in  the  dish  with  the  breasts  upwards.  Lay  a  thin  slice  of 
bacon  over  them,  which  will  give  them  an  agreeable  flavour. 
Then  put  in  a  pint  of  strong  gravy,  and  make  a  good  puff 
paste.  Put  on  the  lid,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderately  heated 
oven 


206- 


Hare  Pie, 


CUT  it  into  pieces,  and  season  it  with  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Ju«-  it  with  half  a  pound  of  butter.  It  must  do  above 
an  hour,  close  covered  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Make  force- 
meat, to  whiqh  add  the  liver  bruised,  and  a  glass  of  red  wine. 
Let  it  be  high  seasoned,  lay  it  round  the  inside  of  a  raised 
crust,  put  in  the  hare  when  cool;  and  add  the  gravy  that 
comes  from  it,  with  some  more  rich  gravy.  Put  on  the  lid, 
and  bake  it  two  hours. 

Rabbit  Pie  to  be  eaten  hot. 

TAKE  a  couple  of  young  rabbits,  and  cut  them  into  quar- 
ters; take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  and  bruise  it  to 
pieces  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  the  livers,  some  pepper,  salt, 
a  little  mace,  and  some  parsley  cut  small,  some  chives,  and  a 
few  leaves  of  sweet  basil.  When  these  are  all  beaten  fine, 
make  the  paste,  and  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pie  with  the  sea- 
soning. Then  put  in  the  rabbits,  pound  some  more  bacon  in 
a  mortar,  and  with  it  some  fresh  butter;  cover  the  rabbits 
with  it,  and  over  that  la}^  some  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Put  on 
the  lid,  and  send  it  to  the  oven.  It  will  take  t\ro  hours  bak- 
ing. When  it  is  done,  take  off  the  lid,  take  out  the  bacon, 
and  skim  off  the  fat.  If  there  is  not  gravy  enough  in  the  pie, 
pour  in  some  rich  veal  gravy  boiling  hot. 

Partridge  Pie  to  be  eaten  hot. 

TAKE  three  brace  of  full-grown  partridges,  and  let  them  be 
trussed  in  the  same  manner  as  a  fowl  for  boiling.  Put  into  a 
marble  mortar  shalots,  some  parsley  cut  small,  the  livers  of 
the  partridges,  and  twice  the  quantity  of  bacon  :  beat  these 
together,  and  season  them  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace.  When  these  are  all  pounded  to  a  paste,  add 
to  them  some  fresh  mushrooms.  Then  raise  the  crust  for  the 
pie,  and  cover  the  bottom  of  it  with  the  seasoning;  then  lay 
in  the  partridges,  but  no  stuffing  in  them  ;  put  the  remainder 
of  the  seasoning  about  the  sides  and  between  the  partridges  ; 
then  strew  over  them  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  mace, 
some  fresh  mushrooms,  and  a  little  bacon,  beat  fine  in  a  mor- 
tar. Lay  a  layer  of  it  over  the  partridges,  and  some  thin  slices 
of  bacon.  Put  on  the  lid.  It  will  take  two  hours  and  a  half 
baking,  When  it  is  done,  take  off  the  lid  and  the  slices  of 
bacon,  arid  skim  off  the  fat.  Put  in  a  pint  of  rich  veal  gravy, 
and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  an  orange. 


t>IES.  207 


Partridge  Pie  to  be  eaten  cold. 

TRUSS  and  beat  the  breasts  of  six  or  eight  young  partridges 
very  flat ;  singe  and  broil  them  upon  a  stove  over  a  very  clear 
charcoal  fire.  When  they  are  cold,  lard  them ;  beat  some 
bacon  in  a  mortar,  and  mix  it  with  the  livers  scalded  and 
bruised.  Put  some  of  this  into  the  partridges.  Then  make  a 
seasoning  with  some  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  mace, 
and  some  lemon  peel  shred  very  fine.  Make  a  raised  crust 
for  the  pie,  and  lay  upon  it  a  little  of  the  stuffing  of  the  livers 
of  the  partridges  ;  over  that  a  little  of  the  seasoning,  and  then 
lay  in  the  partridges  ;  strew  some  of  the  seasoning  over  them ; 
then  put  among  them  some  bits  of  butter,  and  a  little  bacon 
cut  very  fine,  with  a  few  leaves  of  sweet  basil,  two  or  three 
bay-leaves,  a  few  fresh  truffles.  Lay  these  amongst  the  par- 
tridges, and  over  them  a  few  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Put  on  the 
lid,  and  send  it  to  the  oven.  It  will  take  three  hours  baking ; 
after  which  it  must  stand  to  be  cold. 

A  Woodcock  Pie  to  be  eaten  cold. 

THE  woodcock  and  partridge  pie  are  made  nearly  alike,  only 
the  entrails  are  made  use  of.  When  the  woodcocks  are  picked, 
put  the  entrails  by,  and  truss  them  as  for  roasting.  Make  the 
breast-bone  flat,  and  broil  them  over  some  clear  charcoal. 
When  they  are  cold,  lard  them  all  over;  then  pound  some 
bacon  in  a  marble  mortar,  mix  it  with  the  livers  of  the  wood- 
cocks, which  also  bruise,  with  two  or  three  leaves  of  sweet 
basil.  Cut  the  entrails  very  small,  and  mix  them  with  the 
other  seasoning.  Raise  the  pie,  lay  at  the  bottom  some  of  the 
stuffing,  and  put  the  rest  into  the  birds,  putting  between  them 
some  pounded  bacon  and  fresh  butter  mixed  together,  with  a 
very  little  mace,  pepper,  and  salt.  When  the  pie  is  almost 
filled,  take  a  cutlet,  cut  quite  round  a  fillet  of  veal,  and  over 
that  some  slices  of  bacon  cut  very  thin.  Then  put  on  the  lid. 
It  should  stand  three  or  four  hours,  according  to  the  quan- 
tity of  birds,  and  when  it  comes  out  of  the  oven,  set  it  to 
cool. 

Savoury  Patties. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  and  a  pound  of 
the  inside  of  a  cold  loin  of  veal,  or  the  same  quantity  of  cold 
fowl  that  has  been  either  boiled  or  roasted,  and  chop  them  as 
small  as  possible  with  six  or  eight  sprigs  of  parsley.  Season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  half  a  nutmeg  finely  grated. 
Put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  half  a.  pint  of  veal  stock  : 
thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  and  two 


208 

spoonsful  of  cream :  shake  them  over  the  fire  two  or  three 
minutes,  and  fill  the  patties.  The  pattie*  must  be  made  in 
this  manner  :  Raise  them  of  an  oval  form,  and  Lake  them  as 
for  custards.  Cut  some  Ioi5g,  narrow  bits  of  paste,  an-!  bake 
them  on  a  dusting-box,  bi:t  not  to  go  round,  they  being  for 
handles.  Fill  the  patties  when  quite  hot  wi'h  the  meat,  and 
set  on  the  handles  across  the  patties,  when  they  will  look  like 
baskets. 

Cheshire  Pork  Pie. 

SKIN  a  loin  of  pork,  and  cut  it  into  steaks.  Season  it  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  make  a  good  crust.  Put  into 
the  dish  a  layer  of  pork,  then  a  layer  of  pippins  pared  and 
cored,  and  sugar  sufficient  to  sweeten  it.  Then  place  another 
layer  of  pork,  and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  white  wine.  Then 
lay  some  butter  on  the  top,  and  close  the  pie. 

French  Pie. 

PUT  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  two  pounds  of 
flour,  and  make  it  into  a  paste,  and  raise  the  walls  of  the  pie. 
Then  roll  out  some  paste  thin  as  for  a  lid,  and  cut  it  into  vine- 
leaves,  or  the  figures  of  any  moulds  required.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  rub  the  outside  of  the  walls  of  the  pie 
with  it,  and  lay  the  vine-leaves  or  other  figures  round  the 
walls,  and  rub  them  over  with  the  eggs.  Fill  the  pie  with  the 
bones  of  the  meat,  to  keep  the  steam  in,  that  the  crust  may 
be  well  soaked  ;  for  it  must  have  no  lid  on  when  it  goes  to 
table.  Then  take  a  calf's  head,  wash  and  clean  it  well,  and 
boil  it  half  an  hour.  When  cold,  cut  it  in  thin  slices,  and  put 
it  in  a  stewpan,  with  three  pints  of  veal  stock,  and  three  sweet- 
breads cut  thin.  Let  it  stew  an  hour,  with  half  an  ounce  of 
morels  and  the  same  quantity  of  truffles.  Have  ready  two 
calf's  feet  boiled  and  boned  ;  cut  them  into  small  pieces, 
and  put  them  into  the  stewpan,  with  a  spoonful  of  lemon 
pickle,  one  of  browning,  some  cayenne,  and  a,  little  salt. 
When  the  meat  is  tender,  thicken  the  gravy  a  little  with  but- 
ter and  Hour:  strain  it,  and  put  in  a  few  pickled  mushrooms, 
but  fresh  ones  are  preferable,  if  they  are  to  be  had.  Put  the 
meutJnto  the  pie  out  of  which  the  bones  were  taken,  and  lay 
the  nicest  part  at  the  top.  Have  ready  a  quarter  of  a  hundred 
of  asparagus  heads,  and  strew  them  over  the  top  of  the  pie, 
having  first  poured  in  all  the  gravy. 

Devonshire  Squab  Pie. 

COVFR  the  dish  with  a  good  crust,  and  put  at  the  bottom 
of  it  a  layer  of  sliced  pippins,  and  then  a  layer  of  mutton 


P1RS.  £09 

steaks  cut  from  the  loin,  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Then  put  another  layer  of  pippins,  peel  some  onions,  and 
slice  them  thin,  and  put  a  layer  of  them  over  the  apples. 
Then  put  a  layer  of  mutton,  and  then  pippins  and  onions. 
Pour  in  a  pint  of  water,  close  up  the  pie,  and  hake  it. 

Apple  Pie. 

HAVING  put  a  good  puff  paste,  crust  round  the  edge  of  the 
dish,  pare  and  quarter  the  apples,  and  take  out  the  cores : 
lay  a  thick  row  of  apples,  and  throw  in  half  the  sugar  intended 
to  be  put  into  the  pie.  Mince  a  little  lemon  peel  fine,  spread 
it  over  the  sugar  and  apples,  and  squeeze  a  little  lemon  over 
them  :  scatter  a  few  cloves  over  it,  and  lav  on  the  rest  of  the 
apples  and  sugar.  Sweeten  to  the  palate,  and  squeeze  a  little 
more  lemon.  Boil  the  peeling  of  the  apples  and  cores  in 
some  water,  with  a  blade  of  mace,  till  it.  has  a  pleasing  taste ; 
strain  it,  and  boil  the  syrup  with  a  little  sugar,  till  there  is 
but  a  small  quantity  left.  Pour  it  into  the  pie,  put  on  the 
upper  crust,  and  bake  it.  A  little  quince  or  marmalade  may 
be  added.  In  the  same  manner  a  pear  pie  may  be  made,  but 
omit  the  quince.  A  liaison  may  be  added  to  the  pie  when 
cold. 

Apple  Tart. 

HAVING  scalded  eight  or  ten  large  codlins,  let  them  stand 
till  they  are  cold,  and  then  skin  them.  Take  the  pulp,  and 
beat  it  as  fine  as  possible  with  a  spoon  :  mix  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs,  and  the  whites  of  four.  Beat  altogether  very  fine,  put 
in  grated  nutmeg,  and  sweeten  it  to  the  taste.  "Melt  some 
good  fresh  butter,  and  beat  it  till  of  the  consistence  of  fine 
thick  cream  ;  make  a  puff  paste,  and  cover  a  tin  pattypan 
with  it ;  pour  in  the  ingredients,  but  do  not  cover  it  with  the 
paste.  Having  baked  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  slip  it  out  of  the 
pattypan  on  a  dish,  and  strew  over  it  some  sugar  finely 
beaten  and  sifted. 

Codlin  Pie. 

PUT  some  small  codlins  into  a  clean  pan  with  spring  water, 
lay  vine-leaves  on  them,  and  cover  them  with  a  cloth  wrap- 
ped round  the  cover  of  the  pan  to  keep  in  the  steam.  As 
soon  as  they  grow  soft,  peel  them,  and  put  them  in  the  same 
water  with  the  vine-leaves.  Hang  them  a  great  height  over 
the  fire  to  green,  and  when  of  a  fine  colour,  take  them  out  of 
the  water,  and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish,  with  as  much  pow- 
der and  loaf  sugar  as  will  sweeten  them.  Make  the  lid  of 
rich  puff  paste,  and  bake  it.  When  it  comes  from  the  oven, 

p 


210  PIES. 

take  off  the  lid,  and  cut  it  in  little  pieces  like  sippets,  and 
stick  them  round  the  inside  of  the  pie  with  the  points  up- 
wards. Then  add  a  liaison. 

Potatoc  Pie. 

TAKE  three  pounds  of  potatoes,  boil  and  peel  them.  Make 
a  good  crust,  and  Jay  it  in  your  dish.  Put  half  a  pound  of 
butter  at  the  bottom  of  it,  and  then  lay  in  the  potatoes. 
Throw  over  them  three  tea-spoonsful  of  salt,  and  a  small  nut- 
meg grated  all  over ;  boil  six  eggs  hard,  chop  them  fine,  and 
scatter  them  over  it,  as  also  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  and 
add  half  a  pint  of  white  wine.  Cover  the  pie,  and  bake  it 
half  an  hour,  or  till  the  crust  is  enough. 

Artichoke  Pie. 

HAVING  boiled  twelve  artichokes,  take  off  the  leaves  and 
chokes,  and  take  the  bottoms  clear  from  the  stalks.  Make  a 
good  puff  paste  crust,  and  lay  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good 
fresh  butter  all  over  the  bottom  of  the  pie.  Then  lay  a  row 
of  artichokes,  strew  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  beaten  mace 
over  them,  then  another  row,  and  strew  the  rest  of  the  spice 
over  them.  Put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  more  of  butter  in 
little  bits,  take  half  an  ounce  of  truffles  and  morels,  and  boil 
them  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water.  Pour  the  water  into 
the  pie,  cut  the  truffles  and  morels  very  small,  and  throw  them 
all  over  the  pie :  have  ready  twelve  eggs  boiled  hard,  of  which 
take  only  the  hard  yolks,  and  lay  them  over  the  pie.  Pour 
in  a  gill  of  white  wine,  cover  the  pie,  and  bake  it.  When  the 
crust  is  done,  the  pie  will  be  enough.  Four  large  blades  of 
mace,  and  twelve  pepper-corns,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
will  be  sufficient. 

Onion  Pie. 

PEEL  some  onions,  and  wash  and  pare  some  potatoes,  and 
cut  them  into  slices  ;  also  pare  some  apples,  and  slice  them. 
Make  a  good  crust,  cover  the  dish,  and  lay  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  all  over.  Take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
mace  beaten  fine,  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  tea-spoonful  of  beaten 
pepper,  and  three  tea-spoonsful  of  salt.  Mix  altogether,  and 
strew  some  over  the  butter.  Lay  a  layer  of  potatoes,  a  layer 
of  onions,  a  layer  of  apples,  then  a  layer  of  eggs,  and  so  on 
till  the  pie  is  filled,  strewing  a  little  of  the  seasoning  between 
each  layer,  and  i  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  bits,  with 
six  spoonsful  of  water.  Close  the  pie,  and  bake  it  an  hour 
and  a  half.  A  pound  of  potatoes,  a  pound  of  onions,  a  pound 
of  apples,  and  twelve  eggs,  will  be  sufficient. 


PIES  211 

Cherry  Pie. 

HAVING  made  a  good  crust,  lay  a  little  of  it  round  the  sides 
of  the  dish,  and  throw  sugar  at  the  bottom.  Then  lay  in  the 
fruit,  and  some  sugar  at  the  top.  A  few  red  currants  put 
along  with  the  cherries  make  an  agreeable  addition.  Then 
put  on  the  lid,  and  bake  it  in  a  slack  oven.  A  plumb  pit,  or 
gooseberry  pie  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner.  If  it  is  de- 
sired that  the  fruit  look  red,  let  the  pie  stand  a  good  while  in 
the  oven  after  the  bread  is  drawn.  A  custard  eats  very  well 
with  a  gooseberry  pie. 

Mince  Pie. 

TAKE  a  neat's  tongue,  and  boil  it  two  hours;  then  skin  it, 
and  chop  it  as  small  as  possible.  Chop  very  small  three 
pounds  of  beef  suet,  the  same  quantity  of  good  baking  apples, 
four  pounds  of  currants  clean  washed,  picked,  and  well  dried 
before  the  fire,  a  pound  of  jar  raisins  stoned  and  chopped 
small,  and  a  pound  of  powder  sugar.  Mix  them  all  together 
with  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  the  same  quantity  of  grated  nut- 
meg, a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  the  same  quantity  of 
cinnamon,  and  a  pint  of  French  brandy.  Make  a  rich  puff 
paste,  and  as  the  pattypans  are  filled,  put  in  a  little  candied 
citron  and  orange  cut  in  little  pieces.  Put  close  down  in  a 
pot  what  mincemeat  is  left,  and  cover  it  up  ;  but  never  put 
any  citron  or  orange  to  it  till  wanted  for  use. 

Or,  shred  three  pounds  of  suet  very  fine,  and  chopped  as 
small  as  possible.  Take  two  pounds  of  raisins  stoned,  and 
chopped  as  fine  as  possible ;  two  pounds  of  currants  nicely 
picked,  washed,  rubbed,  and  dried  at  the  fire  ;  half  a  hundred 
of  fine  pippins  pared,  cored,  and  chopped  small ;  half  a 
pound  of  fine  sugar  pounded  fine  ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
mace,  the  same  quantity  of  cloves,  and  two  large  nutmegs,  all 
beat  fine.  ?Put  all  together  into  a  great  pan, and  mix  them  well 
together  with  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
sack.  Put  it  close  down  into  a  stone  pan,  and  it  will  keep 
good  for  months.  If  meat  is  approved  of  in  the  pies,  take  two 
rounds  of  the  inside  of  a  sirloin  of  beef  boiled,  chopped  as 
fine  as  possible,  and  mixed  with  the  rest;  or  a  neat's  tongue 
parboiled,  and  treated  as  above  directed. 

• 

Lent  Mince  Pie. 

BOIL  six  eggs  hard,  and  chop  them  fine  ;  take  twelve  pip- 
pins pared  and  chopped  small ;  a  pound  of  raisins  of  the 
sun,  stoned  and  chopped  fine;  a  pound  of  currants,  washed, 
picked^  and  rubbed  clean;  a  large  spoonful  of  sugar  beat' 


212  PIES. 

finp,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace  and  cloves  beat  fine,  an 
ounce  of  citron,  an  ounce  of  can  lied  o.ange,  both  beat  fine, 
an  1  a  little  nutmeg  beat  fine.  Mix  ail  together  nva  gill. of 
brandy  and  a  gill  of  sack.  Make  the  crust  good,  and  bake 
it  in  a  slack  oven.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange. 

I'orkshire  Chris/mas  Pie. 

HAVING  made  a  good  standing  crust,  with  the  wall  and 
bottom  very  thick,  take  and  bone  a  turkey,  a  goose,  a  fowl, 
a  partridge,  and  a  pigeon.  Season  them  well,  and  take  half 
an  ounce  of  mace,  the  same  quantity  of  nutmegs,  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  and  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  all 
beat  fine  together.  Then  add  two  large  spoonsful  of  salt : 
mix  all  well  together.  Open  the  fowls  all  down  the  back, and 
bone,  first  the  pigeon,  then  the  partridge,  and  cover  them. 
Then  proceed  in  the  same  manner  with  the  fowl,  goose,  and 
turkey,  which  must  be  large.  Season  them  all  well,  and  then 
lay  them  in  the  crust,  so  that  it  may  look  only  like  a  whole 
turkey.  Then  have  a  hare  ready  cased,  and  wiped  with  a 
clean  cloth.  Disjoint  the  hare  into  pieces,  season  it,  and  lav- 
it  as  clo  e  as  possible  on  one  side ;  and  on  the  other  side  put 
woodcocks,  moor-game,  and  any  sort  of  wild  fowl.  Season 
them  well,  and  lay  them  close.  Put  at  least  four  pounds  of 
butter  into  the  pie,  and  then  lay  on  the  lid,  which  must  be 
very  thick,  and  let  it  be  well  baked.  It  must  have  a  very  hot 
oven,  and  will  take  four  hours  baking  at  least.  This  crust  will 
take  a  bushel  of  flour. 

Shropshire  Pie. 

Cur  two  rabbits  into  pieces,  with  two  pounds  of  fat  pork 
cut  small,  and  season  both  with  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
ThLMi  m;;ke  a  good  puff  paste  crust,  cover  the  dish  with  it, 
and  lay  in  the  rabbits  Mix  the  pork  with  them ;  but  take 
t':e  livers  of  the  rabbits,  parboil  them  and  beat  them  in  a  mor- 
tar, with  the  same  quantity  of  fat  bacon,  a  little  sweet  herbs, 
and  some  ovsters.  Season  them  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nut- 
meg, mix  it  up  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  make  it  up  into 
littl^  balls.  Scatter  them  about  the  pie,  with  some  articnoke 
bottoms  cut  in  dices,  and  some  cock's-combs.  Grate  a  small 
nutmeg  over  the  meat,  then  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  red  wine, 
ani  :iaif  a  pint  of  second  stock.  •  Close  the  pie,  and  bake  it  an 
hour  and  a  half  in  a  quick  but  not  too  fierce  oven. 

Fine  Patties. 

TAKE  any  quantity  of  either  turkey,  house-lamb,  or  chicken, 
and  slice  it  with  an  equal  quantity  of  the  fat  of  Jamb,  loin  of 


PIES.  213 

veal,  or  the  inside  of  a  sirloin  of  beef,  and  a  little  parsley, 
thyme,  and  lemon  peel  shred.  Put  all  into  a  marbie  n;ortar, 
pound  it  very  line,  and  season  it  with  salt  and  \vii;tr  pepper. 
Make  a  fine  pun1'  paste,  roll  it  nut  in  thin  square  sheet*,  and 
put  the  forcemeat  in  the  middle.  Cover  tne  pie,  clo-^o  it  all 
round,  and  cut  the  pasj;e  even.  Befo.e  they  are  put  into  the 
oven,  wash  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  e^g,  and  bake 
them  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Have  ready  a  little 
white  gravy,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  eschalot, 
thickened  tip  with  a  little  cream  or  hutter.  When  the  patties 
come  out  of  the  oven,  make  a  hole  in  the  top,  and  pour  in 
some  gravy;  hut  take  care  not  to  put  in  too  much,  lest  it 
should  run  out  at  the  sides,  which  will  spoil  thu  appearance 
of  them. 

Olive  Pie. 

TAKE  the  thin  coMops  of  the  hest  end  of  a  leg  of  veal,  in 
quantity  proportionate  to  the  .size  of  the  intended  pie.  Hack 
them  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  and  season  them  with  pepper, 
salt,  cloves,  and  mace.  Wash  over  the  collops  with  a  bunch 
of  feathers  dipped  in  eggs,  and  have  in  readiness  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs  shred  small,  such  as  thyme,  parsley,  and  spinach. 
Take  the  yolks  of  eight  hard  eggs  minced,  and  a  few  oysters 
parboiled  and  chopped,  and  some  beef  suet  shred  very  fine. 
Mix  these  together,  and  strew  them  over  the  collops.  Then 
sprinkle  a  little  orange-flower  water  over  them,  and  roll  the 
collops  up  very  close.  Then  put  the  crust  on  the  dish,  lay 
the  collops  in  it,  put  butter  on  the  top,  and  ciose  the  pie. 
When  it  comes  out  of  the  oven,  have  ready  some  hot  gravy, 
with  an  anchovy  dissolved  in  it,  and  pour  it  into  the  pie. 

Egg  Pit. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  marrow,  or  beef  suet,  twelve  eggs  boiled 
hard,  and  chop  them  very  fine.  Season  them  with  a  little 
beaten  cinnamon  and  nutmeg ;  take  a  pound  of  currants 
clean  washed  and  picked,  two  or  three  spoonsful  of  cream, 
and  a  little  sack  and  rose-water.  Mix  all  together,  and  fill 
the  pie  with  it.  When  it  is  baked,  stir  in  half  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Sweet  Egg  Pie. 

COVER  the  dish  with  a  good  crust,  and  then  take  twelve 
eggs  boiled  hard,  cut  them  into  slices,  and  lay  them  in  the 
pie.  Throw  half  a  pound  of  currants,  clean  washed  and 
picked,  all  over  the  eggs.  Then  beat  up  four  eggs  well, 
mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  grate  in  a  small  nut- 


PIES. 


meg,  and  make  it  pretty  sweet  with  sugar.  Remember  to 
lay  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  between  the  eggs,  then 
pour  in  the  wine  and  eggs,  and  cover  the  pie.  Bake  it  till  the 
crust  js  done,  which  will  be  in  about  half  an  hour. 

Orange  or  Lemon  Tarts. 

RUB  six  large  lemons  well  with  salt,  and  put  them  into  wa- 
ter, with  a  handful  of  salt  in  it,  for  two  days.  Then  change 
them  every  day  into  fresh  water,  without  salt,  for  a  fortnight: 
boil  them  for  two  or  three  hours  till  they  are  tender  ;  cut  them 
into  half  quarters,  and  then  cut  them  three-corner  ways  as 
thin  as  possible.  Take  six  pippins  pared,  cored,  and  quar- 
tered, and  a  pint  of  water.  Let  them  boil  till  the  pippins 
break,  put  the  liquor  to  the  orange  or  lemon,  half  the  pulp  of 
the  pippins  well  broken,  and  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  these 
together  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put  it  into  a  bason,  and 
squeeze  into  it  an  orange.  If  a  lemon  tart,  squeeze  a  lemon. 
Two  spoonsful  are  enough  for  a  tart.  Put  very  fine  puff 
paste,  and  very  thin,  into  the  pattypans,  which  must  be  small 
and  shallow.  Just  before  the  tarts  are  put  into  the  oven, 
with  a  feather  or  brush  rub  them  over  with  melted  butter, 
and  then  sift  double-refined  sugar  over  them,  which  will  form 
a  pretty  icing. 

Tart  de  Moi. 

LAY  round  the  dish  a  puff  paste,  and  then  a  layer  of  bis- 
cuit ;  then  a  layer  of  butter  and  marrow,  another  of  all  sorts 
of  sweetmeats,  and  thus  proceed  till  the  dish  is  full  :  boil  a 
quart  of  cream,  and  thicken  it  with  four  eggs,  and  put  in  a 
spoonful  of  orange-flower  water.  Sweeten  it  with  sugar  to 
the  palate,  and  pour  it  over  the  whole.  Half  an  hour  will 
bake  it. 

Skirret  Pie. 

BOIL  the  skirrets  tender,  peel  and  slice  them,  and  fill  the 
pie  with  them.  To  half  a  pint  of  cream  take  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  and  beat  it  fine.  Put  to  it  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a 
little  beaten  mace,  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  all  well  together, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  melted,  and  pour 
in  as  much  as  the  dish  will  hold.  Put  on  the  top-crust,  and 
bake  it  half  an  hour.  If  cream  cannot  be  put,  add  milk. 

Turbot  Pie. 

WASH  and  parboil  the  turbot,  and  season  it  with  a  little 
pepper,  salt,  cloves,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  sweet  herbs  cut  fine. 
N\  hen  the  paste  is  made,  lay  in  the  turbot,  with  some  yolks, 


PIES.  2 1 5 

of  eggs  boiled  hard,  a  whole  onion,  which  must  be  taken 
out  when  the  pie  is  baked.  Lay  a  great  deal  of  fresh  butter 
on  the  top,  and  close  it  up.  It  is  good  cold  or  hot. 

Tench  Pie. 

LAY  a  layer  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  grate 
in  some  nutmeg,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  Lay  in  the 
tench,  cover  them  with  some  butter,  and  pour  in  some  red 
wine  and  a  little  water.  Then  put  on  the  lid,  and  when  it 
comes  from  the  oven,  pour  in  melted  butter,  with  some  gravy 
in  it. 

Trout  Pie. 

LARD  a  brace  of  trout  with  eels ;  raise  the  crust,  and  lay  a 
layer  of  fresh  butter  at  the  bottom.  Then  make  a  forced 
meat  of  trout,  mushrooms,  truffles,  morels,  chives,  and  fresh 
butter.  Season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  and  spice;  mix  these 
up  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  stuff  the  trout  with  this  forced 
meat,  lay  them  in  the  pie,  cover  them  with  butter,  put  on  the 
lid,  and  send  it  to  the  oven.  Have  some  good  fish  gravy  ready 
to  pour  into  the  pie  when  it  is  baked. 

Eel  Pie. 

HAVING  skinned  and  washed  the  eels  very  clean,  cut  them 
in  pieces  an  inch  and  a  half  long  :  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  dried  sage  rubbed  small,  and  raise  the  pies  about 
the  size  of  the  inside  of  a  plate.  Fill  them  with  eels,  and 
lay  a  lid  over  them.  Bake  them  well  in  a  quick  oven. 

Carp  Pie. 

SCALE,  gut,  and  wash,  a  large  carp  clean.  Take  an  eel, 
and  boil  it  till  almost  tender,  pick  off  all  the  meat,  and  mince 
it  fine,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  crumbs  of  bread,  a  few  sweet 
herbs,  a  lemon-peel  cut  fine,  and  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  grated 
nutmeg ;  an  anchovy,  half  a  pint  of  oysters  parboiled  and 
chopped  fine,  and  the  yolks  of  three  hard  eggs  cut  small. 
Roll  it  up  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  fill  the 
belly  of  the  carp.  Make  a  good  crust,  cover  the  dish,  and 
lay  in  the  carp.  Save  the  liquor  the  eels  were  boiled  in, 
put  into  it  the  eel  bones,  and  boil  them  with  a  little  mace, 
whole  pepper,  an  onion,  some  sweet  herbs,  and  an  anchovy. 
Boil  till  reduced  to  about  half  a  pint,  strain  it,  and  add  to  it 
about  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  a  piece  of  but- 
ter about  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  mixed  in  a  very  little  flour. 
Boil  it  up,  and  pour  it  into  the  pie.  Put  on  the  lid,  and  bake 


216  PIES. 

it  an  hour  m  a  quick  oven.  If  there  be  any  forcemeat  left 
after  filling  the  belly  of  the  carp  make  balls  of  it,  and  put  it 
into  the  pie.  If  there  is  not  liquor  enough,  boil  a  few  small 
eels  for  that  purpose. 

Salt  Fish  Pie. 

LAY  a  side  of  salt  fish  in  water  all  night,  and  next  morning 
put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  pan  of  water  till  tender.  Drain  it,  and 
lay  it  on  the  dresser;  take  off  all  the  skin,  and  pick  the  meat 
clean  from  the  bones,  and  mince  it  small.  Take  the  crumb 
of  two  French  rolls  cut  in  slices,  and  boil  it  up  with  a  quart  of 
new  milk.  Break  the  bread  very  fine  with  a"  spoon,  put  it 
to  the  minced  salt  fish,  with  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  two 
spoonsful  of  minced  parsley,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  little 
beaten  pepper,  and  three  tea-spoonsful  of  mustard.  Mix  all 
well  together,  make  a  good  crust,  lay  it  all  over  the  dish,  and 
cover  it  up.  Bake  it  an  hour. 

Sole  Pie. 

COVER  the  dish  with  a  good  crust,  boil  two  pounds  of  eels 
till  they  are  tender,  and  pick  all  the  flesh  clean  from  the  bones. 
Throw  the  bones  into  the  liquor  the  eels  were  boiled  in,  with  a 
little  mace  and  salt,  till  it  is  very  good,  and  reduced  to  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint,  and  then  strain  it.  In  the  meantime,  cut  the 
flesh  of  the  eel  fine,  with  a  little  lemon-peel  shred  fine,  a 
little  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  chop- 
ped parsley,  and  an  anchovy.  Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  and  mix  with  it,  and  then  lay  it  in  a  dish.  Cut  the 
flesh  off  a  pair  of  large  soles,  or  three  pair  of  very  small 
ones,  clean  from  the  bones  and  fins.  Lay  it  on  the  force- 
meat, and  pour  in  the  liquor  of  the  eels.  Put  on  the  lid  of 
the  pie  and  bake  it.  Boil  the  bones  of  the  soles  with  the  eel 
bones,  to  make  it  good  ;  but  if  the  sole  bones  are  boiled  with 
one  or  two  little  eels,  without  the  forcemeat,  the  pie  will  be 
very  good.  A  turbot  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  manner. 

Flounder  Pie. 

HAVING  gutted  the  flounders,  wash  them  clean,  and  dry 
them  in  a  cloth.  Just  boil  them,  cut  off  the  meat  clean  from 
the  bones,  lay  a  good  crust  over  the  dish,  and  lay  a  little  fresh 
butter  at  the  bottom,  and  on  that  the  fish.  Season  with  pep- 
per and  salt  to  your  mind.  Boil  the  bones  in  the  water  the 
fish  was  boiled  in,  with  a  little  bit  of  horse-radish,  a  little 
parsley,  a  very  little  bit  of  lemon-peel,  and  a  crust  of  bread. 
Boil  it  till  there  is  jnst  enough  liquor  for  the  pie,  then  strain 
it,  and  put  it  into  the  pie.  Put  on  the  top  crust,  and  bake  it. 


PIES.  217 


Herring  Pie. 

HAVING  scaled,  gutted,  and  v;ashed  the  herrings  clean,  cut 
off  their  heads,  fins,  and  tails.  Make  a  good  crust,  cover  the 
dish,  and  season  the  herrings  with  beaten  rnace,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Put  a  little  butter  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  then 
a  row  of  herrings.  Pare  some  apples,  and  cut  them  into  thin 
slices  over  the  dish.  Then  peel  some  onions,  and  cut  them 
in  the  same  manner.  Lay  a  little  butter  on  the  top,  put  in  a 
little  water,  lay  on  the  lid,  and  bake  it  well. 

Salmon  Pie. 

HAVING  made  a  good  crust,  cleanse  a  piece  of  salmon  well, 
season  it  with  salt,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  lay  a  piece  of  butter 
at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  lay  the  salmon  in.  Melt  but- 
ter according  to  the  pie.  Take  a  lobster,  boil  it,  pick  out  all 
the  flesh,  chop  it  small,  bruise  the  body,  and  mix  it  well  with 
the  butter,  which  must  be  very  good.  Pour  it  over  the  sal- 
mon, put  on  the  lid,  and  bake  it  well. 

Lobster  Pic. 

BOIL  two  or  three  lobsters,  take  the  meat  out  of  their  tails 
whole,  and  cut  them  in  four  pieces  longways.  Take  out  all 
the  spawn,  and  the  meat  of  the  claws  ;  beat  it  well  in  a  mor- 
tar, and  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  iwo  spoonsful  of  vine- 
gar, and  a  little  anchovy  liquor.  Melt  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  and  stir  all  together,  with  the  crumbs  of  a  halfpenny 
roll  rubbed  through  a  fine  cullender,  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Put  a  fine  puff  paste  over  the  dish,  lay  in  the  tails, 
and  the  rest  of  the  meat  over  them.  Put  on  the  cover,  and 
bake  it  in  a  slow  oven. 

Muscle  Pie. 

HAVING  laid  a  good  crust  all  over  the  dish,  wash  the  muscles 
clean  in  several  waters;  then  puf  them  into  a  deep  stewpan, 
cover  them,  and  let  them  stew  till  they  open :  pick  them  out, 
and  see  there  are  no  crabs  under  the  tongue.  Put  them  into 
a  saucepan,  with  two  or  three  blades  of  mace  (strain  liquor 
just  enough  to  cover  them),  a  good  piece  of  butter,  and  a 
few  crumbs  of  bread.  Stew  them  a  few  minutes,  fill  the  pie, 
put  on  the  lid,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour.  Always  let  the  fish 
be  cold  before  the  lid  is  put  on,  or  it  will  spoil  the  crust. 
Oyster  pie  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 


218  PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 


PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 

Cream  Pancakes. 

JMix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  and  a  little  beaten  cinnamon,  mace,  and 
nutmeg;  rub  the  pan  with  lard,  and  fry  them  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible :  grate  sugar  over  them. 

Milk  Pancakes. 

PUT  six  or  eight  eggs,  leaving  out  half  the  whites,  into  a 
quart  of  milk,  and  mix  them  well  till  the  batter  is  of  a  fine 
thickness :  observe  to  mix  the  flour  first  with  a  little  milk, 
then  add  the  rest  by  degrees.  Put  in  two  spoonsful  of  beaten 
ginger,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  a  little  salt.  Stir  all  together, 
and  make  the  frying-pan  very  clean.  Put  in  a  piece  of  but- 
ter of  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  then  put  in  a  ladleful  of  bat- 
ter, which  will  make  a  pancake,  moving  the  pan  round,  so 
that  the  batter  may  be  every  where  even  alike  in  the  pan  ; 
when  that  side  is  enough,  toss  it  or  turn  it  cleverly  without 
breaking  it.  When  done,  lay  it  in  a  dish  before  the  fire, 
and  proceed  to  do  the  rest  in  like  manner.  Strew  a  little 
sugar  over  them,  and  take  care  that  they  are  dry. 

Rice  Pancakes. 

TAKE  three  spoonsful  of  flour  of  rice,  and  a  quart  of 
cream  ;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  as  thick 
as  pap:  pour  into  it  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  nutmeg 
grated :  pour  it  into  an  earthern  pan,  and  when  cold,  stir  in 
three  or  four  spoonsful  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  some  sugar,  and 
nine  eggs  well  beaten  ;  mix  all  well  together,  and  fry  them 
nicely.  When  cream  is  not  to  be  had,  use  new  milk,  and  a 
spoonful  more  of  the  Hour  of  rice. 

Custard  Fritters. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  with  one  spoonful  of  flour, 
half  a  nutmeg,  a  little  salt,  and  brandy,  add  a  pint  of  cream ; 
sweeten  it,  and  bake  in  a  small  dish.  When  cold,  cut  it  into 
quarters  ;  dip  them  in  batter  made  of  half  a  pint  of  cream,  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  a  little  flour,  and  a  little 


PANCAKES  AND  FRITTEUS.  219 

ginger  grated.     Fry  them  a  little  brown,  in  good  lard  or  drip- 
ping.    Grate  sugar  over  them,  and  serve  them  up  hot 

Common  Fritters. 

GET  the  largest  baking-apples,  pare  them,  and  take  out  the 
core  with  an  apple-scraper;  cut  them  in  round  slices,  and  dip 
them  in  batter  made  thus :  take  half  a  pint  of  ale  and  two 
eggs-,  and  beat  in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  rather  thicker 
than  a  common  pudding,  with  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  the  taste. 
Let  it  stand  three  or  four  minutes  to  rise.  Having  dipped  the 
apples  into  this  batter,  fry  them  crisp,  and  serve  them  up 
with  sugar  grated  over  them,  and  wine  sauce  in  a  boat. 

Fine  Fritters. 

TAKE  some  of  the  finest  flour,  and  dry  it  well  before  the 
fire :  mix  it  with  a  quart  of  new  milk,  but  take  care  not  to 
make  it  too  thick.  Put  to  it  six  or  eight  eggs,  a  little 
nutmeg,  mace,  and  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  sack  or 
ale,  or  a  glass  of  brandy.  Beat  them  well  together,  then 
make  them  pretty  thick  with  pippins,  boiled  and  pulped 
through  a  sieve,  and  fry  them  dry. 

White  Fritters. 

WASH  at  least  an  ounce  of  rice  in  five  or  six  different  wa- 
ters, and  dry  it  well  before  the  fire.  Then  beat  it  very  fine 
in  a  mortar,  and  sift  it  through  a  lawn  sieve:  put  it  into  a 
saucepan,  just  wet  it  with  milk,  and  when  well  incorporated 
with  it,  add  to  it  another  pint  of  milk.  Set  the  whole  over 
a  stove,  or  a  very  slow  fire,  and  take  care  to  keep  it  always 
moving :  add  a  little  ginger,  and  some  candied  lemon-peel 
grated.  Keep  it  over  the  fire  till  it  almost  come  to  the  thick- 
ness of  a  fine  paste,  flour  a  peal,  pour  it  on  it,  and  spread  it 
out  with  a  rolling-pin.  When  cold,  cut  it  into  little  morsels, 
taking  care  that  they  do  not  stick  one  to  the  other.  Roll  up  the 
fritters  handsomely,  and  fry  them.  Serve  them  up  with  sugar 
over  them,  and  pour  over  them  a  little  orange-flower  water. 

A  Quire  of  Paper. 

TAKE  three  spoonsful  of  fine  flour,  a  pint  of  cream,  sijf 
eggs,  three  spoonsful  of  sack,  one  of  orange-flower  water,  a 
little  sugar,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  half  a  pound  of  melted 
butter  almost  cold.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  butter  the  pan 
for  the  first  pancake.  Let  them  run  as  thin  as  possible,  and 
when  they  are  just  coloured,  they  will  be  enough.  In  this 
manner  all  the  fine  pancakes  should  be  fried. 


220  PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 


Almond  Froze. 

STEEP  a  pound  of  Jordan  almonds  blanched,  in  a  pint  of 
cream,  ten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  four  whites :  take  out  the  al- 
monds, and  pound  them  fine  in  a  mortar  ;  mix  them  again  in 
the  cream  and  eggs,  and  put  in  some  sugar  and  grated  white 
bread  :  stir  them  all  together,  put  some  fresh  butter  into  the 
pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  hot,  pour  in  the  batter,  stirring  it  in 
the  pan  till  of  a  good  thickness.  When  enough,  turn  it  into 
a  dish,  and  throw  sugar  over  it. 

Fritters  Royal. 

PUT  a  quart  of  new  milk  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  it  be- 
gins to  boil,  pour  in  a  pint  of  sack :  take  it  off,  ]et  it  stand 
five  or  six  minutes,  skim  off  the  curd,  and  put  it  into  a  bason. 
Beat  it  up  well  with  six  eggs,  and  season  it  with  nutmeg. 
Then  beat  it  with  a  whisk,  and  flour  sufficient  to  give  it  the 
usual  thickness  of  batter,  put  in  some  sugar,  and  fry  them 
quick. 

Currant  Fritters  without  Eggs. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  ale  that  is  not  bitter,  and  stir  into  it 
flour  to  make  it  pretty  thick,  with  a  few  currants.  Beat  this 
up  quick  :  have  the  lard  boiling  ;  throw  in  a  large  spoonful  at 
a  time. 

Raspberry  Fritters. 

GRATE  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll,  or  two  Naples  biscuits; 
put  to  either  a  pint  of  boiling  cream  :  when  this  is  cold,  add 
to  it  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  all  well  together 
with  some  raspberry  juice;  drop  them  into  a  pan  of  boiling 
lard,  in  very  small  quantities.  Stick  them  with  blanched  al- 
monds sliced. 

Tansy  Fritters. 

Pouu  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  on  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf 
grated.  When  cold,  add  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  sugar  to  the 
taste,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and 
spinach  and  tansy  juice  to  colour  it.  Mix  this  over  the  fire, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  till  thick.  Let  it  stand 
near  three  hours,  and  drop  it,  a  spoonful  to  a  fritter,  ii  to 
boiling  lard. 

Rice  Fritters. 

BOIL  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  in  milk  till  it  is  pretty 
thick ;  then  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  cream,  four  eggs,  some 


PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS.  221 

sugar,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg ;  six  ounces  of  currants  washed 
and  picked,  a  little  salt,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  a 
thick  batter.  Fry  them  in  little  cakes  in  boil.ng  lard.  Serve 
them  with  white  sugar  and  butter. 

Carrot  Fritters, 

TAKK  two  or  three  boiled  carrots,  beat  them  wit'i  a  spoon, 
and  pulp  them  through  a  sieve.  Put  to  every  carrot  svo  or 
three  eggs ;  a  little  nutmeg;  to  three  carrots  pur  a  h..miful  of 
flour  ;  wet  them  with  cream,  milk,  or  sack,  and  ad. I  to  Mem 
as  much  sugar  as  will  sweeten  them.  Beat  them  well  half  an 
hour,  and  fry  them  in  boiling  lard.  Squeeze  over  them  a 
Seville  orange,  and  shake  some  fine  sugar  over  them. 

German  Fritters. 

TAKE  some  well-tasted  crisp  apples,  pare,  quarter,  and 
core  them  ;  take  the  core  quite  out,  and  cut  them  into  ror,'id 
pieces:  put  into  a  stewpan  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Fre-ch 
brandy,  a  table  spoonful  of  fine  sugar  pounded,  an.;  I  ^le 
cinnamon.  Put  the  apples  into  this  liquor,  and  set  tuem  over 
a  very  gentle  fire,  stirring  them  often,  but  not  to  break  t  ijem. 
Set  on  a  stewpan  with  some  lard.  When  it  boils  dnu.i  the 
apples,  dip  them  in  some  fine  flour,  and  put  them  into  the 
pan;  they  will  be  brown  and  very  good.  Strew  som«  s;!gar 
over  a  dish,  and  set  it  on  the  fire;  lay  in  the  fritters,  strew  a 
little  sugar  over  them,  and  glaze  them  over  with  a  red-hot 
salamander. 

Bilboquet  Fritters. 

BREAK  five  eggs  into  two  handsful  of  fine  flour,  and  put 
milk  enough  to  make  it  work  well  together;  then  put  in  some 
salt,  and  work  it  again.  When  it  is  well  maJe,  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powder  of  cinnamon,  the  same  quantity  of  lemon- 
peel  grated,  and  half  an  ounce  of  candied  citron  cut  very 
small  with  a  penknife.  Put  on  a  stewpan,  nib  it  over  with 
butter,  and  put  in  the  paste.  Set  it  over  a  very  gentle  fi'e  on 
a  stove,  and  let  it  be  done  very  gently,  without  sticking  to  the 
bottom  or  sides  of  the  pan.  When  it  is  in  a  manner  baked, 
take  it  out  and  lay  it  on  a  dish.  Set  on  a  stewpan  witii  a 
large  quantity  of  lard  ;  when  it  boils  cut  the  paste  t^e  size  of 
a  finger,  and  then  cut  it  across  at  each  end,  which  wid  rise 
and  be  hollow,  and  have  a  very  good  eil'ect.  Put  them  into 
the  boiling  lard,  but  great  care  must  be  taken  in  frying  them, 
as  they  rise  so  much.  When  they  are  done,  sift  some  sugar 
on  a  warm  dish,  lay  on  the  fritters,  and  sift  some  more  sugar 
over  them. 


222  PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 


Point  du  Jour  Fritters. 

TAKE  a  glass  of  mountain,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  brandy. 
Mix  two  handsful  of  flour  with  some  warm  milk,  and  the 
brandy  and  wine,  and  work  it  into  a  paste.  Beat  up  the  white 
of  four  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  mix  them  with  the  batter.  Then 
add  to  them  half  an  ounce  of  candied  citron-peel,  half  an 
ounce  of  fresh  lemon-peel  grated,  some  salt  and  sugar.  Let 
it  be  all  well  beat  up  together ;  then  set  on  a  small  deep  stew- 
pan,  with  a  good  quantity  of  hog's  lard,  and  when  it  is  boil- 
ing hot,  drop  in  some  of  the  batter  through  a  tin  funnel  made 
on  purpose,  with  a  large  body  and  three  pipes.  Hold  the 
funnel  over  the  boiling  lard,  and  pour  the  batter  through  it 
with  a  ladle.  It  must  be  kept  moving  over  the  pan  till  all  is 
run  out,  and  this,  from  the  three  streams,  shapes  the  fritters. 
When  the  batter  is  all  out,  turn  the  fritters,  for  they  are  soon 
brown.  Then  put  one  at  a  time  upon  a  rolling  pin,  and  they 
will  be  the  shape  of  a  rounded  leaf,  which  is  the  proper  shape 
of  these  fritters.  Great  nicety  is  required  in  making  them  ; 
but  they  are  an  elegant  dish.  When  the  first  is  made,  it 
should  be  a  pattern  for  the  rest.  If  too  thick,  pour  in  the  less 
batter  for  the  next ;  and  if  too  thin,  a  little  more. 

Chicken  Fritters. 

PUT  on  a  stewpan  with  some  new  milk,  and  as  much  flour 
of  rice  as  will  be  necessary  to  make  it  of  a  tolerable  thickness. 
Beat  three  or  four  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  together,  and 
mix  them  well  with  the  rice  and  milk.  Add  to  them  a  pint 
of  rich  cream,  set  over  a  stove,  and  stir  it  well.  Put  in  some 
powdered  sugar,  some  candied  lemon-peel  cut  small,  and 
some  fresh-grated  lemon-peel  cut  very  small.  Then  take  all 
the  white  meat  from  a  roasted  chicken,  pull  it  into  small 
shreds,  put  it  to  the  rest  of  the  ingredients,  and  stir  it  all  to- 
gether. Then  take  it  off",  and  it  will  be  a  very  rich  paste. 
Roll  it  out,  cut  it  into  small  fritters,  and  fry  them  iu  boiling 
lard.  Strew  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  sugar  finely  powdered. 
Put  in  the  fritters,  and  shake  some  sugar  over  them. 

Hasty  Fritters. 

PUT  some  butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  let  it  heat.  Take 
half  a  pint  of  good  ale,  and  stir  into  it  by  degrees  a  little  flour. 
Put  in  a  few  currants,  or  chopped  apples,  beat  them  up  quick, 
and  drop  a  large  spoonful  at  a  time  all  over  the  pan.  Take 
care  that  they  do  not  stick  together,  turn  them  with  an  e<rg- 
shce,  and  when  they  are  a  fine  brown,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  and 
throw  some  sugar  over  them. 


PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS.  223 


Fritters. 

HAVING  beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of 
four  well  together,  strain  them  into  a  pan  :  take  a  quart  of 
cream,  and  make  it  scalding  hot :  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  sack,  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  ale,  and  make  a  posset  of 
it.  When  cool,  put  it  to  the  eggs,  beating  it  well  together. 
Then  put  in  salt,  ginger,  nutmeg,  and  flour.  Having  made 
the  batter  pretty  thick,  put  in  pippins  sliced  or  pared,  and 
fry  them  quick  in  a  good  deal  of  batter. 

Curd  Fritters. 

TAKE  a  handful  of  curds  and  a  handful  of  flour,  and  ten 
eggs  well  beaten  and  strained  ;  some  sugar,  cloves,  mace,  and 
nutmeg  beaten,  and  a  little  saffron.  Stir  all  well  together  and 
fry  them  quick,  and  of  a  fine  light  brown. 

Skirret  Fritters. 

To  a  pint  of  pulp  of  skirrets  add  a  spoonful  of  flour,  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  sugar  and  spice.  Make  them  into  a  thick 
batter,  and  fry  them  quick. 

Syringed  Fritters. 

To  a  pint  of  water  add  a  piece  of  butter  of  the  size  of  an 
egg,  with  some  lemon-peel,  rasped  preserved  lemon-peel, 
and  crisped  orange-flowers.  Put  all  together  in  a  stewpan 
'over  the  fire,  and,  when  boiling,  throw  in  some  fine  flour. 
Keep  it  stirring,  put  more  flour  in  by  degrees,  till  the  batter  is 
thick  enough,  and  then  take  it  off  the  fire.  Take  an  ounce 
of  sweet  almonds,  four  bitter  ones,  and  pound  them  in  a 
mortar.  Stir  in  two  Naples  biscuits  crumbled,  and  two  eggs 
beaten.  Stir  all  together,  and  put  in  more  eggs  till  the  bat- 
ter is  thin  enough  to  be  syringed.  Fill  the  syringe,  the  bat- 
ter being  hot,  then  syringe  the  fritters  in  it,  to  make  it  of  a 
true-lover's-knot,  and  being  well  coloured,  serve  them  up  for 
a  side  dish.  Or,  rub  a  sheet  of  paper  with  butter,  over  which 
syringe  the  fritters,  and  make  them  of  the  required  shape : 
the  butter  being  hot,  turn  the  paper  upside  down  over  it,  and 
the  fritters  will  easily  drop  off".  When  fried,  strew  them  with 
sugar,  and  glaze  them. 

Vine-leaf  Fritters. 

HAVING  procured  some  of  the  smallest  vine-leaves,  and 
having  cut  otf  the  great  stalks,  put  them  into  a  dish  with 


224-  PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 

some  French  brandy,  green  lemon  rasped,  and  some  sugar. 
Take  a  good  handful  of  fine  flour,  mixed  with  white  wine  or 
ale:  let  the  batter  be  hot,  and  with  a  spoon  drop  it  in,  and 
take  great  care  that  they  do  not  stick  to  each  other.  On  each 
fritter  lay  a  leaf,  then  fry  them  quick,  and  strew  sugar  over 

them.     Glaze  them  with  a  salamander. 

> 

Clary  Fritters. 

CUT  off  the  stalks  of  the  clary  leaves,  and  dip  them  one  by 
one  in  a  batter  made  with  milk  and  flour.  The  batter  being 
hot,  fry  them  quick. 


PART  IL 


CHAPTER  I. 


PICKLING. 


PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

IT  is  an  essential  point  with  the  housekeeper,  to  take  care 
never  to  be  without  pickles  of  her  own  preparing,  that  she 
may  not  be  obliged  to  purchase  them  at  shops,  where  they 
are  often  badly  prepared,  and  made  to  please  the  eye  by  the 
use  of  pernicious  ingredients.  It  is  too  common  a  practice  to 
make  use  of  brass  utensils,  in  order  to  give  the  pickles  a  fine 
green  ;  but  the  same  purpose  might  be  effected  by  heating 
the  liquor,  and  keeping  it  in  a  proper  degree  of  warmth  on  the 
hearth  or  the  chimney  corner.  By  this  method  you  would 
avoid  the  pernicious  consequence  of  the  use  of  brass  utensils, 
or  of  verdigris  of  any  kind,  which  are  in  their  nature  a  very 
powerful  poison.  Stone  jars  are  undoubtedly  the  best  for 
keeping  all  sorts  of  pickles  ;  for,  though  they  are  expensive 
on  the  first  purchase,  yet  they  will,  in  the  end,  be  found 
much  cheaper  than  earthen  vessels,  through  which,  it  has 
been  found  by  experience,  salt  and  vinegar  will  penetrate, 
especially  when  put  in  hot.  When  you  take  any  pickle  out 
of  your  jars,  be  sure  never  to  do  it  wrth  your  fingers,  as  that 
will  spoil  your  pickle  ;  but  always  make  use  of  a  spoon  for 
that  purpose.  We  shall  now  proceed  to  give  an  account  of 
the  different  kind  of  spices  made  use  of  in  pickling,  as  well  as 
of  vinegars,  &c.  &c. 

Pepper: 

OF  every  kind,  should  be  kept  ground,  in  bottles  withglas? 
stoppers — the  whole  pepper  in  jars,  tied  over  with  bladder. 


22$  PICKLING. 


Ginger,  Cloves,  Nutmegs,  Mace,  Cinnamon,  and  Allspice^ 
should  be  treated,  as  directed  for  Pepper. 

Common  Vinegar. 

PUT  as  many  pounds  of  coarse  Lisbon  sugar  as  gallons  of 
water;  boil  it,  and  skim  it  as  long  as  any  scum  will  rise: 
then  put  it  into  tubs,  and  when  it  is  as  cold  as  beer  to  work, 
toast  a  large  piece  of  bread,  and  rub  it  over  with  yeast.  Let 
it  work  twenty-four  hours ;  then  have  ready  a  vessel,  iron- 
hooped,  and  well  painted,  fixed  in  a  place  where  the  sun  has 
full  power,  and  fix  it  so  as  not  to  have  any  occasion  to  move 
it.  When  it  is  drawn  off,  fill  the  vessels,  and  lay  a  tile  on  the 
bung-hole  to  keep  the  dust  out.  Make  it  in  March,  and  it 
will  be  fit  to  use  in.  June  or  July.  Then  draw  it  off  into  little 
stone  bottles,  let  it  stand  till  wanted  for  use,  and  it  will  never 
be  foul  any  more ;  but  should  it  not  be  sour  enough,  let  it 
stand  a  month  longer  before  it  is  drawn  off. 


Elder-Flower  Vinegar. 

PUT  two  gallons  of  strong  vinegar  to  a  peck  of  the  peeps 
of  elder  flowers,  and  so  in  proportion  for  any  greater  quan- 
tity. Set  it  in  the  sun  in  a  stone  jar  for  a  fortnight,  and  then 
filter  it  through  a  flannel  bag.  When  it  is  drawn  off,  put  it 
into  small  bottles,  in  which  it  will  preserve  its  flavour  better 
than  in  large  ones.  In  mixing  the  flowers  and  the  vinegar 
together,  be  careful  not  to  drop  any  of  the  stalks  among  the 
peeps. 

Gooseberry  Vinegar. 

CIIUSH  the  ripest  gooseberries  in  a  tub,  and  to  every  peck 
of  gooseberries  put  two  gallons  of  water.  Mix  them  well  to- 
gether, and  let  them  work  for  three  weeks.  Stir  them  up 
three  or  four  times  a  day,  then  strain  the  liquor  through  a  hair 
sieve,  and  put  to  every  gallon  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  a 
pound  of  treacle,  a  spoonful  of  fresh  barm,  and  let  it  work 
three  or  four  days  in  the  sanxj  tub  well  washed.  Run  it  into 
iron-hooped  barrels,  let  it  stand  twelve  months,  and  then  draw 
it  into  bottles  for  use.  This  is  far  superior  to  white-wine 
vinegar. 

Tarragon  Vinegar. 

STRIP  off  the  leaves  of  tarragon  just  as  it  is  going  into 
bloom,  and  to  every  pound  of  leaves  put  a  gallon  of  strong 
white-wine  vinegar  in  a  stone  jug,  to  ferment  for  a  fortnight- 


PICKLING.  227 

Then  fun  it  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  to  every  four  gallons 
of  vinegar  put  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  dissolved  in  cyder. 
Mix  it  well,  put  it  into  large  bottles,  and  let  it  stand  a  month 
to  fine.  Then  rack  it  off  into  pint  bottles,  and  use  it  as  it  is 
wanted. 

Sugar  Vinegar. 

To  six  gallons  of  water  put  nine  pounds  of  brown  suo-ar, 
and  so  in  proportion  for  any  greater  quantity.  Boil  it  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  put  it  lukewarm  into  a  tub.  Put  to  it 
a  pint  of  new  barm,  and  let  it  work  four  or  five  days.  Stir  it 
up  three  or  four  times  a  day,  then  turn  it  into  a  clean  iron- 
hooped  barrel,  and  set  it  in  the  sun.  If  made  in  February,  it 
will  be  fit  for  use  in  August.  It  may  be  used  for  most  sorts  of 
pickles,  except  mushrooms  and  walnuts.  This  is  nearly  the 
same  as  that  mentioned  under  the  title  of  Common  Vinegar. 


Cucumbers,  catted  Gerkins. 

THE  cucumbers  must  be  as  free  from  spots  as  possible,  and 
of  the  smallest  size.  Put  them  into  strong  salt  arid  water  for 
nine  or  ten  days,  or  till  they  are  quite  yellow,  and  stir  them 
twice  a  day  at  least,  or  they  will  grow  soft.  When  perfectly 
yellow,  pour  the  water  from  them,  and  cover  them  with  plenty 
of  vine  leaves.  Set  the  water  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils 
pour  it  upon  them,  and  set  them  upon  the  hearth  to  keep 
warm  :  when  the  water  is  nearly  cold,  make  it  boiling  hot 
again,  and  pour  it  upon  them.  Proceed  in  this  manner  till 
they  are  of  a  fine  green,  which  they  will  be  in  four  or  five 
times.  Be  careful  to  keep  them  well  covered  with  vine 
leaves,  with  a  cloth  and  dish  over  the  top  to  keep  in  the  steam, 
Avhich  will  help  to  green  them  the  sooner. 

When  greened,  put  them  in  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and  make 
the  following  pickle  for  them  :  To  every  two  quarts  of  white 
wine  vinegar,  put  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  ten  OF 
twelve  cloves,  an  ounce  of  ginger  cut  into  slices,  the  same 
of  black  pepper,  and  a  handful  of  salt :  boil  all  together  for 
five  minutes,  pour  it  hot  upon  the  pickles,  and  tie  them  down 
with  a  bladder  for  use.  A  clove  of  garlic  may  be  added. 

Cucumbers  in  Slices. 

SLICE  some  large  cucumbers  before  they  are  too  ripe,  and 
put  them  into  an  earthen  pan.  To  every  dozen  of  cucum- 
bers, slice  two  large  onions,  putting  a  handful  of  salt  between 
every  row:  cover  them  with  a  dish,  and  let  them  stand 
twenty-four  hours  :  put  them  into  a  cullender,  and  let  them 

Q  2 


228  PICKLING. 

dry  well ;  put  them  into  a  jar,  cover  them  over  with  white- 
wine  vinegar,  and  let  them  stand  four  hours :  pour  the  vine- 
gar from  them  into  a  saucepan,  and  boil  it  with  a  little  salt, 
mace,  whole  pepper,  a  large  race  of  ginger  sliced,  and  then 
pour  on  them  the  boiling  vinegar.  Cover  them  close,  and 
when  they  are  cold,  tie  them  down,  and  if  wanted  for  use  in 
a  few  days,  reboil  the  vinegar. 

Walnuts  pickled  black. 

YOUR  Avalnuts  must  be  taken  from  the  tree  before  the  shell 
is  hard,  which  may  be  known  by  running  a  pin  into  them, 
and  always  gather  them  when  the  sun  is  hot  upon  them.  Put 
them  into  strong  salt  and  water  for  nine  days,  and  stir  them 
twice  a  day,  observing  to  change  the  salt  and  water  every 
three  days.  Then  put  them  into  a  hair  sieve,  and  let  them 
stand  in  the  air  till  they  turn  black.  Put  them  into  strong 
stone  jars,  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them.  Cover  them 
up,  and  let  them  stand  till  cold.  Then  give  the  vinegar  three 
more  boilings,  pour  it  each  time  on  the  walnuts,  and  let  it 
stand  till  cold  between  every  boiling.  Then  tie  them  down 
with  paper  and  a  bladder  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  two 
months.  Having  stood  that  time,  take  them  out  of  the  vine- 
gar, and  make  for  them  the  following  pickle :  To  every  two 
quarts  of  vinegar,  put  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  a  dram 
of  cloves ;  of  olacK  pepper,  of  Jamaica  pepper,  ginger,  and 
long  pepper,  an  ounce  each,  and  two  ounces  of  common  salt. 
Boil  ten  minutes,  pour  it  hot  on  the  walnuts,  and  tie  them 
down,  covered  with  paper,  and  a  bladder.  This  quantity  of 
spice,  is  intended  for  three  hundred  walnuts. 

Walnuts  pickled  white. 

HAVING  procured  a  sufficient  quantity  of  walnuts  of  the 
largest  size,  and  taken  the  above  precautions  that  their  shells 
are  not  hard,  pare  them  very  thin  till  the  white  appear,  and 
throw  them  into  spring-water,  with  a  handful  of  salt.  Let 
them  stand  in  that  water  for  six  hours,  and  put  a  thin  board 
upon  them  to  keep  them  under  the  water.  Then  set  on  a 
stewpan,  with  some  clean  spring-water  on  a  charcoal  fire. 
Take  the  nuts  put  of  the  water,  put  them  into  the  stewpan, 
and  let  them  simmer  four  or  five  minutes,  but  not  boil  :  have 
ready  a  pan  of  spring-water,  with  a  handful  of  white  salt  in  it, 
stir  it  till  the  salt  is  melted,  take  the  nuts  out  of  the  stewpan 
with  a  wooden  ladle  or  spoon,  and  put  them  into  the  cold 
water  and  salt.  Let  them  stand  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  with  the 
board  lying  on  them  to  keep  them  down  as  before  ;  for  if 
they  are  not  kept  under  the  liquor  they  will  turn  black. 


PICKLING.  129 

Then  lay  them  on  a  cloth,  and  cover  them  with  another  to 
dry ;  carefully  rub  them  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  put  them  into 
the  jar,  with  some  blades  of  mace  and  nutmeg  sliced  thin. 
*Mix  the  spice  between  the  nuts,  and  pour  distilled  vinegar 
over  them.  When  the  jar  is  full  of  nuts,  pour  mutton  fat 
over  them,  and  tie  them  close  down  with  a  bladder  and  lea- 
ther, to  keep  out  the  air. 

Walnuts  pickled  of  an  Olive-colour. 

HAVING  gathered  the  walnuts  with  the  same  precautions  as 
above  directed,  put  them  into  strong  vinegar,  and  tie  them 
down  under  a  bladder  and  paper  to  keep  out  the  air.  Let 
them  stand  twelve  months,  then  take  them  out  of  the  vine- 
gar, and  make  for  them  a  pickle  of  strong  vinegar.  To  every 
quart,  put  half  an  ounce  of  Jamaica  pepper,  the  same  of  long 
pepper,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  the  same  of  cloves,  a 
head  of  garlic,  and  a  little  salt.  Boil  them  all  together  five 
or  six  minutes,  and  then  pour  it  upon  the  walnuts.  As  it  gets 
cold,  boil  it  again  three  times,  and  pour  it  on  the  walnuts. 
Tie  them  down  with  a  bladder  and  paper  over  it ;  and  if  your 
vinegar  be  good,  they  will  keep  several  years,  without  either 
turning  colour  or  growing  soft. 

Walnuts  pickled  green. 

FOR  this  purpose,  make  choice  of  the  large  double  or 
French  walnuts,  gathered  before  the  shells  are  hard.  Wrap 
them  singly  in  vine  leaves,  put  a  few  vine  leaves  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  jar,  and  nearly  fill  it  with  walnuts.  Take  care  that 
they  do  not  touch. one  another,  and  put  a  good  many  leaves 
over  them.  Then  fill  your  jar  with  good  vinegar,  cover  them 
close  that  the  air  cannot  get  in,  and  let  them  stand  for  three 
weeks.  Pour  the  vinegar  from  them,  put  fresh  leaves  on  the 
bottom  of  another  jar,  take  out  the  walnuts,  and  wrap  them 
separately  in  fresh  leaves,  as  quickly  as  possible.  Put  them 
into  the  jar  with  a  good  many  leaves  over  them,  and  fill  it 
with  white-wine  vinegar.  Let  them  stand  three  weeks,  pour 
off  the  vinegar,  and  wrap  them  as  before  with  fresh  leaves  at 
the  bottom  and  top  of  the  jar.  Take  fresh  white-wine  vine- 
gar, put  salt  in  it  till  it  will  bear  an  egg,  and  add  to  it  mace, 
cloves,  nutmeg  and  garlic.  Boil  it  about  eight  minutes,  and 
then  pour  it  on  the  walnuts.  Tie  them  close  with  paper  and 
a  bladder,  and  set  them  by  for  use. 

Kidney  Beans, 

PUT  some  young  and  small  beans  into  a  strong  salt  and 
water  for  three  days,  stirring  them  two  or  three  times  each 


23.O  PICKLING. 

day.  Then  put  them  into  a  pan,  with  vine  leaves  both  under 
and  over  them,  and  pour  on  the.n  the  same  water  they  came 
out  of.  Cover  them  close,  and  set  them  over  a  very  slow  fire 
till  they  are  of  a  very  fine  green.  Put  them  into  a  hair  sieve 
to  drain,  and  make  a  pickle  for  them  of  white-wine  vinegar. 
Boil  it  five  or  six  minutes  with  a  little  mace,  Jamaica  pep- 
per, long  pepper,  and  a  race  or  two  of  ginger  sliced,  pour  it 
hot  upon  the  beans,  and  tie  them  down  with  a  bladder  and 
paper. 

Mangoes. 

CUCUMBERS  used  for  this  purpose  must  be  of  the  largest 
sort,  and  taken  from  the  vines  before  they  are  too  ripe,  oryel- 
low  at  the  ends.  Cut  a  piece  out  of  the  side,  and  take  out 
the  seeds  with  an  apple -scraper,  or  a  tea-spoon.  Then  put 
them  into  very  strong  salt  and  water  for  eight  or  nine  days, 
or  till  they  are  very  yellow.  Stir  them  well  two  or  three 
times  each  day,  and  put  them  into  a  pan  with  a  large  quan- 
tity of  vine  leaves  both  over  and  under  them.  Beat  a  little 
ailum  very  fine  and  put  it  into  the  salt  and  water  they  came 
out  of.  Pour  it  on  the  cucumbers,  and  set  it  upon  a  very 
slow  fire  for  four  or  five  hours,  till  they  are  pretty  green  : 
take  them  out,  and  drain  them  in  a  hair  sieve,  and  when  cold, 
put  to  them  a  little  horse-radish,  then  mustard-seed,  two  or 
three  heads  of  garlic,  a  few  pepper-corns,  a  few  green  cu- 
cumbers sliced  in  small  pieces,  then  horse-radish,  and  the 
same  as  before-mentioned,  till  they  are  filled.  Take  the 
piece  cut  out  from  the  side,  and  sew  it  on  with  a  large  needle 
and  thread,  and  do  all  the  rest  in  the  same  manner.  Have 
ready  the  following  pickle :  To  every  gallon  of  vinegar  put  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  the  same  of  cloves,  two  ounces 
of  sliced  ginger,  the  same  of  long  pepper,  Jamaica  pepper, 
and  black  pepper ;  three  ounces  of  mustard-seed  tied  up  in  a 
bag,  four  ounces  of  garlic,  and  a  stick  of  horse-radish  cut  in 
slices.  Boil  them  five  minutes  in  the  vinegar,  then  pour  it 
upon  the  pickles,  tie  them  down,  and  keep  them  for  use. 

Codlins. 

Youn  codlins  must  be  gathered  when  they  are  about  the 
size  of  a  large  French  walnut.  Put  them  into  a  pan  with  a 
great  many  vine-leaves  at  the  bottom,  and  cover  them  well 
with  the  vine-leaves.  Set  them  over  a  very  slow  fire  till  the 
skin  will  peel,  and  take  them  carefully  up  in  a  hair  sieve  ;t 
peel  them  with  a  pen-knife,  and  put  them  into  the  same  pot 
again,  with  the  vine-leaves  and  water  as  before.  Cover  them 


PICKLING.  231 

close,  and  set  them  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  of  a  fine 
green  :  drain  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  when  C9ld,  put 
them  into  distilled  vinegar.  Pour  a  little  mutton  fat  on  the 
top,  and  with  a  bladder  and  paper  tie  them  down  close. 

Golden  Pippins. 

HAVING  procured  fine  pippins,  free  from  spots  and  bruises, 
put  them  into  a  preserving-pan,  with  cold  spring  water,  and 
set  them  on  a'  charcoal  fire.  Keep  them  stirring  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  till  they  will  peel,  but  do  not  let  them  boil. 
When  enough,  peel  them,  and  put  them  into  the  water  again, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  and  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  alum.  Cover  them  close,  and  set  them  on  the 
charcoal  fire  again,  but  do  not  let  them  boil.  Let  them  stand, 
turning  them  now  and  then,  till  they  look  green  :  then  take 
them  out,  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  cool.  When  cold,  put 
to  them  the  following  pickle  :  To  every  gallon  of  vinegar  put 
two  ounces  of  mustard  seeds,  two  or  three  heads  of  garlic,  a 
good  deal  of  ginger  sliced,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  a  dram  of 
mace  and  nutmeg.  Mix  the  pickle  well  together,  pour  it  over 
the  pippins,  and  cover  them  close, 

Peaches,  Nectarines,  and  Apricots, 

MUST  be  gathered  when  they  are  at  their  full  growth,  and 
just  before  they  turn  ripe,  and  be  sure  that  they  are  not 
bruised.  Take  as  much  spring  water  as  will  cover  them,  and 
make  it  salt  enough  to  bear  an  egg,  for  which  purpose  use 
an  equal  quantity  of  bay  and  common  salt:  lay  in  the  peaches, 
and  put  a  thin  board  over  them  to  keep  them  under  the  water. 
Let  them  stand  three  days,  then  take  them  out,  wipe  them 
.very  carefully  with  a  fine  soft  cloth,  and  lay  them  in  the  jar. 
Then  take  as  much  white-wine  vinegar  as  will  fill  the  jar, 
and  to  every  gallon  put  one  pint  of  the  best  well  made  mus- 
tard, two  or  three  heads  of  garlic,  a  good  deal  of  ginger 
sliced,  and  two  drams  of  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmegs.  Mix 
the  pickle  well  together,  and  pour  it  over  the  peaches.  Tie 
them  up  close,  and  they  will  be  fit  to  eat  in  two  months.  Nec- 
tarines and  apricots  are  pickled  in  the  same  manner. 

Berberries. 

HAVING  procured  berberries  that  are  not  over  ripe,  pick 
off  the  leaves  and  dead  stalks,  and  put  them  into  jars,  with  a 
large  quantity  of  strong  salt  and  water,  and  tie  them  down 
with  a  bladder.  When  a  scum  rises,  put  them  into  fresh  salt 
and  water,  but  they  need  no  vinegar,  their  own  sharpness  being 
fully  sufficient  to  preserve  them. 


2Sf  PICKLINO. 


Radish  Pods. 

PUT  the  radish  pods,  which  must  be  gathered  when  they 
are  quite  young,  into  salt  and  water  all  night  :  boil  the  salt 
and  water  they  were  laid  in,  pour  it  upon  the  pods,  and  cover 
the  jar  close  to  keep  in  the  steam.  When  it  is  nearly  cold, 
make  it  boiling  hot,  and  pour  it  on  again,  and  keep  doing  so 
till  the  pods  are  quite  green.  Then  put  them  into  a  sieve  to 
drain,  and  make  a  pickle  for  them  of  white-wine  vinegar, 
with  a  little  mace,  ginger,  long  pepper,  and  horse-radish. 
Pour  it  boiling  hot  upon  the  pods,  and  when  it  is  almost 
cold,  make  the  vinegar  twice  as  hot  as  before,  and  pour  it 
upon  them.  Tie  them  down  with  a  bladder,  and  put  them 
by  for  use. 

-Beet  Roots. 

BOIL  the  roots  till  tender,  take  off  the  skins,  cut  them  in 
slices,  gimp  them  in  the  shape  of  wheels,  or  any  other  form, 
and  put  them  into  a  jar.  Take  as  much  vinegar  as  will  cover 
them,  and  boil  it  with  a  little  mace,  a  race  of  ginger  sliced, 
and  a  few  slices  of  horse-radish.  Pour  it  hot  upon  the  roots, 
and  tie  them  down. 

Parsley  pickled  green. 

MAKE  a  strong  salt  and  water  that  will  bear  an  egg,  and 
throw  into  it  a  large  quantity  of  curled  parsley.  Let  it  stand 
a  week,  then  take  it  out  to  drain,  make  a  fresh-salt  and  water 
as  before,  and  let  it  stand  another  week.  Drain  it  well,  put  it 
into  spring  water,  and  change  it  three  days  successively. 
Then  scald  it  in  hard  water  till  it  becomes  ^reen,  take  it  out 
and  drain  it  quite  dry,  and  boil  a  quart  of  distilled  vinegar  a 
few  minutes,  with  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a  nutmeg 
sliced,  and  a  shalot  or  two.  When  quite  cold,  pour  it  on  the 
parsley,  with  two  or  three  slices  of  horse-radish,  and  keep  it 
for  use. 

Elder  Buds. 

HAVING  procured  elder  buds,  gathered  when  thev  are  about 
the  size  of  hop  buds,  put  them  into  strong  salt  and  water  for 
nine  days,  and  stir  them  two  or  three  times  a  day.  Then  put 
them  into  a  pau,  cover  them  with  vine-leaves/ and  pour  on 
them  the  water  they  came  out  of.  Set  them  over  a  slow  fire 
till  they  are  quite  green,  and  then  make  a  pickle  for  them 
of  vinegar,  a  little  mace,  a  few  shalots,  and  some  ginger 


PICKLING.  233 

sliced.  Boil  them  two  or  three  minutes,  and  pour  it  upon 
the  buds.  Tie  them  down,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place  foi1 
use. 

Elder  Shoots, 

PUT  the  elder  shoots,  which  must  be  gathered  when  they 
are  of  the  thickness  of  a  pipe  shank,  into  salt  and  water  all 
night.  Then  put  them  into  stone  jars  in  layers,  and  between 
every  layer  strew  a  little  mustard  seed,  scraped  horse-radish, 
a  few  shalots,  a  little  white  beet-root,  and  a  cauliflower  pulled 
into  small  pieces.  Then  pour  boiling  vinegar  upon  them,  and 
scald  them  three  times.  Keep  in  a  dry  place,  with  a  leather 
tied  over  them. 

Nasturtiums. 

PUT  the  nasturtium  berries,  which  must  be  gathered  soon 
after  the  blossoms  are  gone  off,  into  cold  salt  and  water,  and 
change  the  water  for  three  days  successively.  Make  the  pickle 
of  white-wine  vinegar,  mace,  nutmeg  sliced,  shalots,  pepper- 
corns, salt  and  horse-radish.  The  pickle  must  be  made  pretty 
strong,  as  it  must  not  be  boiled.  When  the  berries  are  drained, 
put  them  into  ajar,  and  pour  the  pickle  to  them. 

Grapes. 

LET  the  grapes  be  of  their  full  growth,  but  not  ripe.  Cut 
them  into  small  bunches  fit  for  garnishing,  and  put  them  into 
a  stone  jar  with  vine-leaves  between  every  layer  of  grapes  : 
take  spring  water,-  as  much  us  will  cover  them,  put  into  it  a 
pound  of  bay-salt,  and  as  much  white  salt.as  will  make  it  bear 
an  egg.  Dry  the  bay-salt  and  pound  it  before  it  is  added, 
as  that  will  make  it  melt  the  sooner.  Put  it  into  a  pot,  and 
boil  and  skim  it  well;  but  take  off  only  the  black  scum.  When 
it  has  boiled  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  let  it  stand  to  cool  and 
settle ;  and  when  almost  cold  pour  the  clear  liquor  on  the 
grapes,  lay  vine-leaves  on  the  top,  tie  them  down  close  with 
a  linen  cloth,  and  cover  them  with  a  dish.  Let  them  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  then  take  them  out,  lay  them  on  a  cloth, 
cover  them  over  with  another,  and  let  them  dry  between  the 
cloths.  Then  take  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  a  quart  of  spring 
water,  and  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar.  Let  ic  boil  a  little, 
skim  it  very  clean  as  it  boils,  and  let  it  stand  till  quite  cold. 
Dry  the  jar  with  a  cloth,  put  fresh  vine-leaves  at  the  bottom, 
and  between  every  bunch  of  grapes  and  on  the  top.  Then 
pour  the  clear  of  the  pickle  on  the  grapes,  fill  the  jar  that  the 
pickle  may  be  above  the  grapes,  and  having  tied  a  thin  piece 
of  board  in  a  piece  of  flannel,  lay  it  on  the  top  of  the  jar,  to 


PICKLING. 

keep  the  grapes  under  the  liquor.  Tie  them  down  with  a 
blaoder  and  a  leather,  and  when  wanted  for  use,  take  them 
out  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

Cauliflowers. 

PULL  the  whitest  and  closest  cauliflowers  into  bunches,  and 
spread  them  on  an  earthen  dish.  Lay  salt  all  over  them,  and 
let  them  stand  for  three  days  to  bring  out  all  the  water.  Then 
put  them  into  jars,  and  pour  boiling  salt  and  water  upon  them. 
Let  them  stand!  all  night,  then  drain  them  into  a  hair  sieve,  and 
put  them  into  glass  jars.  Fill  up  the  jars  with  distilled  vine- 
gar, and  tie  them  down  close. 

Red  Cabbage. 

HAVING  sliced  the  cabbage  cross-ways,  put  it  on  an  earthen 
dish,  and  sprinkle  a  handful  of  salt  over  it.  Cover  it  with  ano- 
ther dish,  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then  put  it  into 
a  cullender  to  drain,  and  lay  it  into  the  jar.  Take  white-wine 
vinegar  enough  to  cover  it,  a  little  cloves,  mace,  and  allspice. 
Put  them  in  whole,  with  a  little  cochineal  bruised  fine.  Then 
boil  it  up,  and  put  it  hot  on  the  cabbage.  Cover  it  close  with 
a  cloth  till  cold,  and  tie  it  up  close. 

Indian  Pickle,  or  Piccalillo. 

TAKE  large  fresh  cauliflowers  in  the  month  of  July,  pick 
them  in  small  pieces,  take  also  white  cabbages  cut  in  half 
quarters,  whole  French  beans,  heads  of  celery,  heads  of  as- 
paragus scraped,  onions  whole  and  sliced,  pickling  melons 
peeled  thin  and  cut  in  halves,  and  wash  them  clean :  put  them 
into  a  pan  with  plenty  of  salt  over  them  for  three  days ;  then 
drain,  and  lay  them  thin,  to  dry  in  the  sun,  repeatedly  turn- 
ing them.  Then  put  plenty  of  whole  ginger,  slices  of  horse- 
radish, peeled  garJic,  and  whole  long  pepper  into  salt  and 
water  for  one  night ;  drain  and  dry  them  also ;  and  then  boil 
more  than  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  them,  to  every  two 
quarts  adding  an  ounce  of  turmeric,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  cayenne :  having  put  the  vegetables,  &c.  into  stone  jars, 
pour  the  boiling  vinegar  over  them,  letting  them  stand  close 
covered  till  next  day ;  repeat  this  process  the  two  following 
days,  and  cover  them  with  bladder  and  leather. 

Sour  Crout. 

TAKE  large  white  cabbages  when  in  season,  cut  them  into 
halves,  and  these  into  slips ;  wash  clean,  and  drain  dry  :  put 
into  a  tub  a  layer  of  cabbage,  and  a  layer  of  salt,  with  a  few 


PICKLING.  235 

-coriander  seeds  pounded  and  sifted  very  fine,  and  so  alternately 
till  it  is  nearly  full :  lay  upon  it  a  board  that  will  nearly  fit  it, 
and  upon  that  a  he?.vy  weight  to  press  it  well :  set  it  in  a  cool 
dry  place,  and  cover  with  a  cloth. 

Mode  of  dressing  Sour  Crout. 

PUT  the  prepared  cabbage  into  boiling  water  over  a  fire 
for  five  minutes,  and  strain  it:  have  ready,  an  equal  number 
of  pieces  of  'brisket  of  beef,  and  pickled  pork,  each  weigh- 
ing about  a  quaiter  of  a  pound,  and  all  nearly  boiled  enough; 
put  them  into  a  stewpan,  add  the  cabbage,  some  fresh  butter, 
a  little  vinegar,  onions  sliced  thin,  whole  pepper,  allspice, 
and  ny'ce  ..ii  tied  in  a  bit  of  muslin  :  let  all  stew  till  tender, 
take  6!Tt  the  sp:ce,  season  with  cayenne,  and  serve  with  fried 
onions,  and  fried  sausages  round. 

Mushrooms. 

TAKE  a  sufficient  quantity  of  double  distilled  vinegar  to 
cover  the  mushrooms;  add  whole  white  pepper,  ginger,  mace, 
esciialois,  and  a  small  quantity  of  garlic  peeled;  boil  ten 
minuter,  and  let  it  stand  till  cold  closely  covered:  peel  fresh 
buttons,  wash,  clean,  strain,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  :  to 
each  quart  of  mushrooms,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  strained, 
and  a  tabL'  spoonful  of  salt:  cover  the  stewpan  close,  set  it 
over  the  fire,  and  when  the  liquor  is  sufficiently  drawn  from 
the  mushrooms,  put  the  whole  into  small  glasses,  and  cover 
them  with  the  pickle,  and  tie  with  bladder. 

Artichokes, 

TAKE  young  artichokes  as  soon  as  they  are  formed,  and 
boil  them  for  two  or  three  minutes  in  strong  salt  and  water. 
Lay  them  upon  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and  when  cold,  put 
them  into  narrow-topped  jars :  take  as  much  white-wine  vine- 
gar as  will  cover  the  artichokes.  Boil  them  with  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace,  a  few  slices  of  ginger,  and  a  nutmeg  cut  thin. 
Pour  it  on  them  while  it  is  hot,  and  tie  them  down  close. 

Artichoke.  Bottoms. 

BOIL  the  artichokes  till  the  leaves  can  be  pulled  off;  take 
off  the  chokes,  and  cut  them  from  the  stalk  ;  but  take  great 
care  not  to  let  the  knife  touch  the  top.  Throw  them  into  salt 
and  water  for  an  hour,  take  them  out,  and  lay  liiem  on  a 
cloth  to  drain.  As  soon  as  they  are  dry  put  them  into  large 
wide-mouthed  glasses,  tvith  a  little  mace  and  sliced  nutmeg 
between,  and  fill  them  either  with  distilled  vinegar,  or  sugar- 


P/CKLING. 

vinegar  and  spring-water.     Cover  them  with  mutton  fat  fried, 
and  tie  them  down  with  a  leather  and  a  bladder. 

Onions. 

TAKE  a  sufficient  number  of  the  smallest  onions,  and  put 
them  into  salt  and  water  for  nine  days,  observing  to  change 
the  water  every  day:  put  them  into  jars,  and  pour  fresh  boil- 
ing salt  and  water  over  them.  Let  them  stand  close  covered 
until  cold,  then  make  some  more  salt  and  water,  and  pour  it 
boiling  hot  upon  them.  When  cold,  put  the  onions  into  a 
hair  sieve  to  drain,  then  put  them  into  wide-mouthed  bottles, 
and  fill  them  up  with  distilled  vinegar.  Put  into  every  bot- 
tle a  slice  or  two  of  ginger,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  large  tea- 
spoonful  of  eating  oil,  which  will  keep  the  onions  white.  If 
the  taste  of  a  bay-leaf  is  approved,  put  one  or  two  into  every 
bottle,  and  as  much  bay-salt  as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence.  Cork 
them  up  well. 


Caveach,  or  pickled  Mackerel.—  &ZG  Frugal  Dishes. 
Indian  Bamboo  imitated. 

ABOUT  the  beginning  or  middle  of  May,  take  the  middle 
of  the  stalks  of  the  young  shoots  of  elder,  for  the  tops  of  the 
shoots  are  not  worth  doing.  Peel  off  the  out  rind,  and  lay 
them  all  night  in  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  beer.  Dry  them 
singly  in  a  cloth,  and  in  the  meantime  make  a  pickle  of  an. 
equal  quantity  of  gooseberry  vinegar  and  wine  vinegar.  To 
every  quart  of  pickle  put  an  ounce  of  long  pepper,  the  same 
quantity  of  sliced  ginger,  a  few  corns  of  Jamaica  pepper,  and 
a  little  mace.  Boil  it,  and  pour  it  hot  upon  the  shoots.  Stop 
the  jar  close,  and  set  it  by  the  fire-side  for  twenty-four  hours, 
taking  care  to  stir  it  frequently. 

Asparagus. 

CUT  off  the  white  ends  of  the  largest  asparagus,  and  wash 
the  green  ends  in  spring  water  :  put  them  into  another  clean 
water,  and  let  them  lie  therein  two  or  three  hours.  Put  into 
a  broad  stewpan,  full  of  spring  water,  a  large  handful  of  salt, 
set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  put  in  tne  asparagus,  not 
tied  up,  but  loose,  and  not  too  many  at  a  time.  Just  scald 
them,  and  no  more  ;  then  take  them  out  with  a  broad  skim- 
mer, and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  cool  :  make  the  pickle  with  a 
gallon  or  more,  according  to  the  quantity  of  asparagus,  of 
white-wine  vinegar  and  an  ounce  of  bay-salt.  Boil  it,  and 
put  the  asparagus  into  the  jar.  To  a  gallon  of  pickle  put  two 
nutmegs,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  and  the  same  quan- 


PICKLING.  237 

tity  of  whole  white  pepper.  Pour  the  pickle  hot  over  the 
asparagus,  and  cover  them  with  a  linen  cloth,  three  or  four 
times  double :  and  when  they  have  stood  a  week,  boil  the 
pickle  again.  Let  them  stand  a  week  longer,  then  boil  the 
pickle  again,  and  pour  it  on  hot  as  before.  When  they  are 
cold,  cover  them  close,  in  the  same  manner  as  other  pickles. 

Ox  Palates. ' 

WASH  the  palates  well  with  salt  and  water,  and  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  some  clean  salt  and  water ;  when  ready 
to  boil,  skim  them  well,  and  put  to  them  as  much  pepper, 
cloves,  and  mace,  as  will  give  them  a  quick  taste.  When 
boiled  tender,  which  will  require  four  or  five  hours,  peel 
them,  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  and  let  them  cool. 
Then  make  the  pickle  of  an  equal  quantity  of  white  wine  and 
vinegar.  Boil  the  pickle,  ana  put  in  the  spices  that  were 
boiled  in  the  palates.  When  both  the  pickle  and  palates  are 
cold,  lay  the  palates  in  a  jar,  and  put  to  them  a  few  bay- 
leaves,  and  a  little  fresh  spice.  Pour  the  pickle  over  them, 
cover  them  close,  and  keep  them  for  use.  They  are  very 
useful  to  put  into  made  dishes  ;  or  you  may  at  any  time  make 
a  pretty  little  dish,  either  with  brown  sauce  or  white,  or  but- 
ter ana  mustard,  and  a  spoonful  of  white  wine. 

Samphire. 

LAY  green  samphire  into  a  clean  pan,  and  throw  over  it 
two  or  three  handfuls  of  salt ;  then  cover  it  with  spring  water. 
Let  it  lay  twenty-four  hours,  then  put  into  a  clean  saucepan, 
throw  in  a  handiul  of  salt,  and  cover  it  with  good  vinegar. 
Cover  the  pan  close,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire.  Let  it  stand 
till  just  green  and  crisp,  and  take  it  off  at  that  moment ;  for 
if  it  should  remain  till  soft,  it  will  be  spoiled.  Put  it  in  the 
pickling  pot,  and  cover  it  close.  As  soon  as  cold,  tie  it  down 
with  a  bladder  and  leather,  and  keep  it  for  use  ;  or  it  may  be 
preserved  all  the  year,  in  a  very  strong  brine  of  salt  and 
water;  throw  it  into  vinegar  just  before  it  is  used. 

Red  Currants. 

TAKE  white-wine  vinegar,  and  to  every  quart  of  vinegar 
put  in  half  a  pound  of  Lisbon  sugar.  Then  pick  the  worst 
of  the  currants,  and  put  them  into  this  liquor  ;  but  put  the 
best  into  glasses  :  boil  the  pickle  with  the  worst  of  the  cur- 
rants, and  ^skim  it  very  clean.  Boil  it  till  it  looks  of  a  fine 
colour,  and  let  stand  till  cold  before  it  is  strained  ;  strain  it 
through  a  cloth,  wringing  it,  to  get  all  the  colour  from  the 


238  PICKLING. 

currants.  Let  it  stand  to  cool  and  settle  ;  then  pour  it  clean 
into  the  glasses  in  a  little  of  the  pickle ;  and  when  cold,  cover 
it  close  with  a  bladder  and  leather.  To  every  half  pound  of 
sugar  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  salt. 

Smelts: 

WHEN  smelts  are  in  great  plenty,  take  a  quarter  of  a  peck 
of  them,  and  wash,  clean,  arid  g-jt  them  :  take  half  an  ounce 
of  pepper,  the  same  quantity  of  nutmegs,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  mace,  half  an  ounce  of  salt-petre,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  common  salt.  Beat  all  very  fine,  and  then  lay 
the  smelts  in  rows  in  a  jar.  Between  every  layer  of  smelts 
strew  the  seasoning  with  four  or  five  bay -leaves ;  then  boil 
red  wine,  and  pour  over  them  a  sufficient  quantity  to  cover 
them.  Cover  them  with  a  plate  ;  and  when  cold,  stop  them 
down  close.  Many  people  prefer  them  to  anchovies. 

Anchovies. 

ARTIFICIAL  anchovies  are  made  in  this  manner :  To  a  peck 
of  sprats,  take  two  pounds  of  common  salt,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  bay-salt,  four  of  salt-petre,  two  ounces  of  prunella 
salt,  and  a  small  quantity  of  cochineal.  Pound  all  in  a  mor- 
tar, put  them  into  a  stone  pan,  a  row  of  sprats,  then  a  layer 
of  the  compound,  and  so  on  alternately  to  the  top.  Press 
them  hard  down,  cover  them  close,  let  them  stand  for  six 
months,  and  they  will  be  fit  for  use.  Take  particular  care 
that  the  sprats  are  very  fresh,  and  do  not  wash  or  wipe  them, 
but  take  them  just  as  they  come  out  of  the  water. 

Oysters,  Cockles,  and  Muscles. 

TAKE  two  hundred  of  the  newest  and  best  oysters,  and 
be  careful  to  save  the  liquor  in  a  pan  as  they  are  opened. 
Cut  off  the  black  verge,  saving  the  rest,  and  put  them  into 
their  own  liquor ;  then  put  all  the  liquor  and  oysters  into  a 
kettle,  boil  them  about  half  an  hour  on  a  gentle  fire,  and  do 
them  very  slowly,  skimming  them  as  the  scum  rises;  then 
take  them  off  the  fire,  take  out  the  oysters,  and  strain  the 
liquor  through  a  fine  cloth:  put  in  the  oysters  again,  take  out 
a  pint  of  the  liquor  when  hot,  and  add  to  it  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  mace,  and  the  same  of  cloves :  just  give  it  one  boil, 
put  it  to  the  oysters,  and  stir  up  the  spices  well  among  them ; 
then  put  in  about  a  spoonful  of  salt,  three  quarters  of  a  pint 
of  the  best  white-wine  vinegar,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
whole  pepper.  Then  let  them  stand  till  cold,  and  put  the. 
oysters  into  a  barrel.  Put  in  as  much  liquor  as  the  barrel 


COLLARING.  239 

hold,  letting  them  settle  a  while,  and  they  will  soon  be  fit  to 
eat ;  or  put  them  into  stone  jars,  cover  them  close  Avith  a 
bladder  and  leather,  and  be  sure  they  are  quite  cold  before 
they  are  covered  up.  In  the  like  manner  do  cockles  and 
muscles,  with  this  difference  only,  that  there  is  not  any  thing 
to  be  picked  off  cockles,  and  as  they  are  small,  the  above  in- 
gredients will  be  sufficient  for  two  quarts  of  muscles,  but 
take  great  care  to  pick  out  the  crabs  under  the  tongues  of 
the  muscles,  and  the  little  pus  which  grows  at  the  root  of  the 
tongue.  Cockles  and  muscles  must  be  washed  in  several 
waters  to  clean  them  from  the  grit.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan 
by  themselves,  cover  them  close,  and  when  they  open,  pick 
them  out  of  the  shells,  and  strain  the  liquor. 

Salmon. 

CLEAN  the  fish  carefully,  boil  it  gently  till  done,  and  then 
take  it  up:  strain  the  liquor,  adding  bay-leaves,  peppercorns, 
and  salt;  give  it  a  boil,  and  when  cold,  add  vinegar  to  the 
palate,  and  pour  over  the  fish. 


CHAPTER  II. 
COLLARING. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

LT  is  a  necessary  article  in  collaring,  to  take  care  that  you 
roll  it  up  properly,  and  bind  it  close.  Be  cautious  that  you 
boil  it  thoroughly  enough  ;  and  when  quite  cold,  put  it  into 
the  pickle  with  the  same  binding  it  had  on  when  boiled  ;  but 
take  it  off  the  next  day,  and  it  will  leave  the  skin  clear.  Make 
fresh  pickle  frequently,  which  will  preserve  your  meat  much 
longer. 

Beef. 

BONE  a  piece  of  thick  flank  of  beef,  cut  the  skin  off,  and 
salt  it  with  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  sal-pru- 
nella, the  same  quantity  of  bay-salt,  half  a  pound  of  coarse 
sugar,  and  two  pounds  of  white  salt.  Beat  the  hard  salts 
fine,  and  mix  all  together.  Turn  it  every  day,  and  rub  it 
well  with  the  brine  "for  eight  days ;  then  take  it  out  of  the 
pickle,  wash  it,  and  wipe  it  dry.  Take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 


f40  COLLARING. 

of  cloves,  the  same  quantity  of  mace,  twelve  corns  of  allspice, 
and  a  nutmeg  beat  very  fine,  with  a  spoonful  of  beaten  pep- 
per, a  large  quantity  of  chopped  parsley,  and  some  sweet 
herbs  chopped  fine.  Sprinkle  it  on  the  beef,  and  roll  it  up 
very  tight;  put  a  coarse  cloth  round  it,  and  tie  it  very  tight 
with  tape.  Boil  it  in  a  large  copper  of  water  ;  and  if  a  large 
collar,  it  will  take  six  hours  boiling;  but  a  small  one  will  be 
done  in  five.  Take  it  out,  and  put  it  in  a  press  till  cold  ;  or 
between  two  boards,  and  a  large  weight  upon  it. 

Breast  of  Veal, 

TAKE  a  breast  of  veal,  bone  it,  and  beat  it  a  little.  Rub  it 
over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  strew  over  it  a  little  beaten 
mace,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt ;  a  large  handful  of  parsley 
chopped  small,  with  a  few  sprigs  of  sweet  marjoram,  a  little 
lemon  peel  finely  shred,  an  anchovy  washed,  boned,  and  chop- 
ped very  small,  and  mixed  with  a  few  crumbs  of  bread :  roll  it 
up  very  tight,  bind  it  hard  with  a  fillet,  and  wrap  it  in  a  clean 
cloth ;  then  boil  it  two  hours  and  a  half  in  salt  water ;  and 
when  enough,  hang  it  up  by  one  end,  and  make  a  pickle  for 
it:  to  a  pint  of  salt  and  water  put  half  a  pint  of  vinegar;  and 
when  sent  to  table,  cut  a  slice  off  one  of  th«  ends. 

Breast  of  Mutton. 

TAKE  off  the  skin  of  a  breast  of  mutton,  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  nicely  take  out  all  the  bones  ;  but  take  care  not  to  cut 
through  the  meat.  Pick  all  the  fat  and  meat  off  the  bones, 
then  grate  some  nutmeg  all  over  the  inside  of  the  mutton,  a 
very  Tittle  beaten  mace,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  few  sweet 
herbs  shred  small,  a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  and  the  bits  of  fat 
picked  off  the  bones.  Roll  it  up  tight,  stick  a  skewer  in  to 
hold  it  together,  but  do  it  in  such  a  manner  that  the  collar  may 
stand  upright  in  the  dish.  Tie  a  packthread  across  it,  to  hold 
it  together;  spit  it ;  then  roll  the  caul  of  a  breast  of  veal  all 
round  it,  and  roast.  When  it  has  been  about  an  hour  at  the 
fire,  take  off  the  caul,  dredge  it  with  flour,  baste  it  well  \\ith 
fresh  butter,  and  let  it  be  of  a  fine  brown.  It  will  require  on 
the  whole,  an  hour  and  a  quarter  roasting.  For  sauce,  take 
some  stock  and  coulis  well  seasoned. 

Or,  bone  a  large  breast  of  mutton,  and  take  out  all  the 
gristles.  Rub  it  all  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  season 
it  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  parsley,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram, 
all  shred  small,  and  shalot  if  approved.  Wash  and  cut  an 
anchovy  in  bits.  Strew  all  this  over  the  meat,  roll  it  up  hard, 
tie  it  with  a  tape,  and  put  it  into  a  «ewpan ;  brown  it,  add 


COLLARING.  241 

some  gravy  well  seasoned,  and  thicken  it  with  flour  and 
butter.  Add  some  truffles  and  morels,  or  pickled  cucumbers, 
or  girkins  sliced. 

Calf's  Head. 

TAKE  off  the  hair  of  a  calf's  head,  but  leave  on  the  skin. 
Rip  it  do\vn  the  face,  and  take  out  "all  the  bones  carefully 
from  the  meat.  Steep  it  in  warm  milk  till  it  is  white,  then  lay 
it  flat,  rub  it  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  strew  over  it  a 
spoonful  of  white  pepper,  two  or  three  blades  of  beaten  mace, 
a  nutmeg  grated,  a  spoonful  of  salt,  two  score  of  oysters 
chopped  small,  half  a  pound  of  beef  marrow,  and  a  large 
handful  of  parsley.  Lay  them  all  over  the  inside  of  the 
head,  cut  o(F  the  ears,  and  lay  them  on  a  thin  part  of  the 
head  :  roll  it  up  tight,  bind  it  up  with  a  fillet,  and  wrap  it  up 
in  a  clean  cloth.  Boil  it  two  hours ;  and  when  almost  cold, 
bind  it  up  with  a  fresh  fillet,  and  put  it  in  a  pickle  made,  as- 
before  directed,  for  a  breast  of  veal. 

Pig. 

HAVING  killed  your  pig,  dress  oil  the  hair,  and  draw  out 
the  entrails.  Then  wash  it  clean,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  rip 
it  open,  and  take  out  all  the  bones;  then  rub  it  all  over  with 
pepper  and  salt  beaten  fine,  a  few  sage-leaves,  and  sweet  herbs 
chopped  small;  then  roll  up  your  pig  tight,-  and  bind  it  with 
a  fillet.  Fill  your  boiler  with  soft  water,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  few  pepper-corns,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  eight  or 
ten  cloves,  a  handful  of  salt,  and  a  pint  of  vinegar.  When  it 
boils  put  in  your  pig,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  tender.  Then 
take  it  up  ;  and  when  it  is  almost  cold,  bind  it  over  again,  put 
it  into  an  earthen  pot,  and  pour  the  liquor  your  pig  was  boiled 
in  upon  it.  Remember  to  keep  it  covered. 

Venison. 

TAKE  a  side  of  venison,  bone  it,  and  take  away  all  the 
sinews,  and  cut  it  into  square  collars.  It  will  make  two  or 
three  collars.  Lard  it  with  fat  clear  bacon,  and  cut  the  lards 
as  big  as  the  top  of  the  finger,  and  three  or  four  inches  long. 
Season  the  venison  with  pepper,  salt,  cloves,  and  nutmeg. 
Roll  up  the  collars,  and  tie  them  close  with  coarse  tape;  then 
put  them  into  deep  pots,  with  seasonings  at  the  bottoms,  some 
fresh  butter,  and  three  or  four  bay-leaves ;  then  put  in  the 
rest,  with  some  seasoning  and  butter  on  the  top,  and  over 
that  some  beef  suet  finely  shred  and  beaten  ;  cover  up  the 
pot  with  coarse  paste,  and  bake  them  four  or  five  hours. 

R 


242  COLLARING. 

After  that,  take  them  out  of  the  oven,  and  let  them  stand  a 
little.  Take  out  the  venison,  and  let  it  drain  well  from  the 
gravy.  Take  off  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  add  more  butter 
to  the  fat,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  to  clarify.  Then  take 
it  off,  and  let  it  stand  a  little  and  skim  it  well.  Make  the 
pots  clean,  or  have  pots  ready  fit  for  each  collar.  Put  a  little 
seasoning,  and  some  of  the  clarified  butter  at  .the  bottom  : 
then  put  in  the  venison,  and  fill  up  the  pots  with  clarified 
butter,  and  be  sure  the  butter  is  an  inch  above  the  meat. 
When  thoroughly  cold,  tie  it  down  with  double  paper,  and 
lay  a  tile  on  the  top.  They  will  keep  six  or  eight  months ; 
and  when  a  pot  is  wanted,  put  it  for  a  minute  into  boiling 
water,  and  it  will  come  out  whole.  Let  it  stand  till  cold, 
stick  it  round  with  bay-leaves,  and  a  sprig  ^t  the  top. 

Eds. 

CUT  the  eel  open,  take  out  the  bones,  cut  off  the  head  and 
tail,  and  lay  the  eel  flat  on  the  dresser.  Shred  some  sage 
as  fine  as  possible,  and  mix  it  with  black  pepper  beaten,  some 
nutmeg  grated,  and  some  salt.  Lay  it  ali  over  the  eel,  and 
roll  it  up  hard  in  little  cloths,  tying  it  up  tight  at  each  end. 
Then  set  on  some  water,  with  pepper  and  salt,  five  or  six 
cloves,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  and  a  bay-leaf  or  two. 
Boil  these,  with  the  bones,  head,  and  tail  j  then  take  out  the 
bones,  head,  and  tail,  and  put  in  the  eels.  Let  them  boil  till 
tender,  then  take  them  out  of  the  liquor,  and  boil  the  liquor 
longer.  Take  it  off;  and  when  cold  put  it  to  the  eels  ;  but 
do  not  take  off  the  little  cloths  till  the  collars  are  used. 

Salmon. 

TAKE  a  side  of  salmon,  and  cut  off  about  a  handful  of  the 
tail.  Wash  well  the  large  piece,  and  dry  it  with  a  cloth. 
Wash  it  over  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  make  some  force- 
meat with  what  was  cutoff  the  tail ;  but  take  off  the  skin,  and 
put  to  it  a  handful  of  parboiled  oysters,  a  tail  or  two  of  lob- 
sters, the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  six  ancho- 
vies, a  good  handful  of  sweet  herbs  chopped  small,  a  little 
salt,  chives,  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  grated  bread.  Work 
all  these  together  in  a  mortar  with  yolks  of  eggs,  and  lay  it 
all  over  the  fleshy  part,  with  a  little  more  pepper  and  salt  all 
over  the  salmon.  Then  roll  it  up  into  a  collar,  and  bind  it 
with  broad  tape.  Boil  it  in  water,  salt,  and  vinegar  ;  but  let 
the  liquor  boil  first.  Then  put  in  the;  collars,  with  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  sliced  ginger,  and  nutmeg.  Let  them  boil 
gently  nearly  two  hours;  and  when  enough,  take  them  up. 
Put  tlu-m  into  the  sousing-pan;  and  as  soon  as  the  pickle  i* 


POTTING.  21-3 

cold,  put  it  to  the  salmon,  and  let  it  stand  in  it  till  wanted  for 
Use  ;  or  it  maybe  potted  after  it  is  boiled,  and  fill  it  up  with 
clarified  butter;  and  this  way  it  will  keep  good  the  longer. 

Mackerel. 

HAVING  gutied  the  mackerel,  slit  it  down  the  belly,  cut  off 
the  head,  and  take  out  the  bones;  but  take  care  not  to  cut  it  in 
holes.  Then  lay  it  flat  upon  its  back,  season  it  with  pepper, 
salt,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  and  a  handful  of  parsley,  shred  fine. 
Strew  it  over  them,  roll  them  tight,  and  tie  them  well  sepa- 
rately in  cloths.  Boil  them  gently  twenty  mimites  in  vinegar, 
salt,  and  water  ;  then  take  them  out,  put  them  into  a  pot,  and 
pour  the  liquor  on  them.  The  next  day  take  the  cloth  off 
the  fish,  put  a  little  more  vinegar  to  the  pickle,  and  keep  them 
for  use. 


CHAPTER  III. 
POTTING. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

JDEFORE  you  send  your  meat  to  the  oven,  take  care  to  cover 
it  well  with  butter,  fasten  it  down  with  strong  paper,  and 
bake  it  well.  As  soon  as  it  comes  from  the  oven,  drain  the 
gravy  |rom  the  meat,  and  be  careful  to  pick  out  all  the  skins, 
as  otherwise  they  will  hurt  the  look  of  the  meat,  and  the  gravy 
will  soon  turn  it  sour.  Remember  always  to  beat  your  season- 
ing well  before  you  put  in  your  meat,  and  put  it  in  by  de- 
grees as  you  beat.  When  you  put  your  meat  into  your  pots, 
press  it  well,  and  be  sure  never  to  pour  your  clarified  butter 
over  your  meat  till  it  is  quite  cold. 

Marble  Veal. 

BOIL,  skin,  and  cut  a  dried  tongue  as  thin  as  possible,  and 
beat  it  very  well  with  near  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  little 
beaten  mace,  till  it  be  like  a  paste.  Have  ready  some  veal 
stewed  and  beat  in  the  same  manner.  Then  put  some  veal 
into  some  potting-pots,  thin  some  tongue  in  lumps  over  the 
vea! ;  but  do  not  lay  on  the  tongue  in  any  form  but  in  lumps, 
and  it  will  then  cut  like  marble.  Fill  the  pot(closeup  with 
veal;  press  it  very  hard  down,  and  pour  clarified  butter  over 

R  2 


•Ml  •  POTTING. 

it.     Remember  to  keep  it  in  a  dry  place  ;  and  when  sent  to 
table,  cut  it  out  in  slices. 

Geese  and  Turkeys. 

TAKE  a  fat  goose  and  a  fat  turkey,  cut  them  down  the 
rump,  and  take  out  all  the  bones.  Lay  them  flat  open,  and 
season  them  with  white  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  allowing 
a  nutmeg,  with  the  Jike  proportion  of  pepper,  and  as  much 
salt  as  both  the  spices.  When  seasoned  al^over,  let  the  tur- 
key be  within  the  goose,  and  keep  them  in  seasoning  two 
nights  and  a  day ;  then  roll  them  up  as  collared  beef,  very 
tight,  and  as  short  as  possible,  and  bind  it  very  fast  with 
strong  tape.  Bake  it  in  a  long  pan,  with  plenty  of  butter, 
till  very  tender.  Let  it  lie  in  the  hot  liquor  an  hour;  then 
take  it  out,  and  let  it  stand  till  next  day  ;  then  unbind  it,  place 
it  in  the  pot,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  it.  Keep  it  for 
use,  and  slice  it  out  thin. 

Tongues. 

RUB  a  neat's  tongue  with  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  and  four 
ounces  of  brown  sugar,  and  let  it  lie  two  days ;  then  boil  it 
till  quite  tender,  and  take  off  she  skin  and  side  bits.  Cut  the 
tongue  in  very  thin  slices,  and  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with 
a  pound  of  clarified  butter,  and  season  it  to  the  taste  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  Beat  all  as  fine  as  possible,  then  put 
it  close  down  into  small  potting-pots,  and  pour  over  them  cla- 
rified butter. 

Or,  take  a  dried  tongue,  boil  it  till  tender,  and  then  peel  it. 
Take  a  goose  and  a  large  fowl,  and  bone  them  ;  take  a  quar- 
ter ot  an  ounce  of  mace,  the  same  quantity  of  olives,  a  large 
nutmeg,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  and  beat  all 
well  together ;  add  a  spoonful  of  salt,  and  rub  the  tongue  and 
the  inside  of  the  fowl  well  with  them.  Put  the  tongue  into 
the  fowl,  then  season  the  goose,  and  fill  it  with  the  fowl  and 
tongue,  and  the  goose  will  look  as  if  it  were  whole.  Lay  it 
in  a  pan  that  will  just  hold  it,  melt  fresh  butter  enough  to 
cover  it,  send  it  to  the  oven,  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  naif; 
then  uncover  the  pet,  and  take  out  the  meat.  Carefully  drain 
it  from  the  butter,  lay  it  on  a  coarse  cloth  till  cold,  then  take 

ff  the  hard  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  lay  it  before  the  fire  to 
melt.  Put  the  meat  again  into  the  pot,  and  pour  the  butter 
over  it.  If  there  is  not  enough,  clarify  more,  and  let  the  but- 
ter be  an  inch  above  the  meat.  It  will  keep  a  great  while, 
n;ie,  and  look  beautiful ;  but  must  be  cut  crossways  quite 
Observe,  in  potting  it,  to  save  a  little  of  the  spice  to 
throw  over  it  before  the  last  butter  is  put  on,  otherwise  the 
meat  will  not  be  sufficiently  seasoned 


POTTING.  24> 


Beef. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  and  an  ounce  of  salt- 
petre, and  rub  it  into  twelve  pounds  of  beef.  Let  it  lie 
twenty-four  hours;  then  wash  it  clean,  and  dry  it  well  with 
a  cloth.  Season  it  to  the  taste,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace, 
and  cut  it  into  five  or  six  pieces.  Put  it  into  an  earthen  pot, 
with  a  pound  of  butter  in  lumps  upon  it,  set  it  in  a  hot  oven, 
and  let  stand  there  three  hours.  Then  take  it  out,  cut  olTthe 
hard  outsides,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar.  Add  to  it  a  little  more 
pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  Then  oil  a  pound  of  butter  in  the 
gravy  and  fat  that  came  from  the  beef,  and  put  it  in  as  re- 
quired ;  but  beat  the  meat  exceedingly  fine.  Then  put  it  into 
the  pots,  press  it  close  down,  pour  clarified  butter  over  it,  and 
keep  it  in  a  dry  place. 

Or,  take  a  buttock  of  beef,  and  cut  the  lean  of  it  into  pound 
pieces.  To  eight  pounds  of  beef,  take  four  ounces  of  salt- 
petre, the  same  quantity  of  petre-salt,  a  pint  of  white  salt, 
and  an  ounce  of  sal-prunella.  Beat  all  the  salts  very  fine, 
mix  them  well  together,  and  rub  them  into  the  beef.  Then 
let  it  lie  four  clays,  turning  it  twice  a  day.  After  that,  put  it 
into  a  pan,  cover  it  with  pump-water,  and  a  little  of  its  own 
brine.  Bake  it  in  an  oven,  with  the  household  bread,  till  it  - 
is  tender ;  drain  it  from  the  gravy  ;  and  take  out  all  the  skin 
and  sinews.  Pound  it  into  a  marble  mortar,  lay  it  in  a  broad 
dish,  and  mix  in  it  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  mace, 
three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  pepper,  and  a  nutmeg,  all 
beat  very  fine.  Mix  all  well  with  the  meat,  adding  a  little 
clarified  fresh  butter  to  moisten  ir.  Mix  all  again  well  toge- 
ther, press  it  down  into  pots  very  hard,  set  it  at  the  mouth  of 
the  oven  just  to  settle,  and  cover  it  two  inches  thick  with  cla- 
rified butter.  Cover  it  with  white  paper  as  soon  as  it  isco'id. 

Or,  take  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  cut  it  into  slices,  and  lay 
them  upon  a  plate;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little 
cochineal.  Turn  and  season  them  on  the  other  side,  and  then 
let  them  lie  one  upon  another  all  night :  put  them  into  a  pan  ; 
add  to  them  half  a  pint  of  small  beer,  a  little  vinegar,  and  as 
much  water  as  will  cover  them,  and  some  black  and  Jamaica, 
pepper :  cover  very  close,  and  bake  them.  When  they  are 
baked,  take  the  slices  out  of  the  pickle,  while  they  are  hot, 
let  them  lie  till  cold,  and  then  beat  them  in  a  mortar.  Add  to 
them  a  pdund  of  fresh  butter,  while  they  are  beating,  some 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  When  they  are  well  beaten,  put 
them  into  the  pot,  and  when  the  bread  is  drawn,  put  it  into  the 
oven  until  it  is  hot  through.  When  cold,  cover  it  over  with 
clarified  butter,  and  it  win  !;ee;>  a  mnnth  or  two. 


246  POTTING. 


To  Pot  Cold  Beef. 

CUT  it  small,  add  to  it  some  melted  butter,  two  anchovies, 
boned  and  washed,  and  a  little  Jamaica  pepper  beat  fine. 
Put  them  into  a  marble  mortar,  and  beat  them  well  together 
till  the  meat  is  yellow.  Then  put  it  into  pots,  and  cover  with 
clarified  butter. 

Small  Birds. 

HAVING  picked  and  gutted  the  birds,  dry  them  well  with  a 
cloth,  and  season  them  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  Then 
put  them  into  a  pot  with  butter,,  tie  the  pot  down  with  caper, 
and  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  they  come  out, 
drain  the  gravy  from  them,  and  put  them  into  potting-pots. 
Pour  clarih'ed  butter  over  them,  and  cover  them  close. 

Pigeons. 

PICK  and  draw  the  pigeons,  cut  off  the  pinions,  wash  them 
clean,  and  put  them  into  a  sieve  to  drain  :  dry  them  with  a 
cloth,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Roll  a  lump  of  but- 
ter in  chopped  parsley,  and  put  it  into  the  pigeons.  Sew  up 
the  vent,  put  them  into  a  pot  with  butter  over  them,  tie  them 
down,  and  set  them  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  When 
they  come  out,  put  them  into  potting-pots,  and  pour  clarified 
butter  over  then). 

Woodcocks. 

TAKE  six  woodcocks,  pluck  them,  and  draw  out  the  trail. 
Skewer  their  bills  through  their  thighs,  put  their  legs  through 
each  other,  and  their  feet  upon  their  breasts :  season  with 
three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 
Put  them  into  a  deep  pot,  with  a  pound  of  butter  over  them  ; 
bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when  enough,  lay  them 
on  a  dish  to  drain  the  gravy  from  them.  Then  put  them 
into  potting-pots;  take  all  the  clear  butter  from  the  gravy,  and 
put  it  upon  them.  Fill  up  the  pots  with  clarified  butter. 
Keep  them  in  a  dry  place  for  use. 

Moor  Game. 

HAVING  picked  and  drawn  the  game,  wipe  them  clean  with 
a  cloth,  and  season  well  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  Put 
one  leg  through  the  other,  and  roast  them  till  of  a  good 
brown.  When  cold,  put  them  into  potting-pots,  and  pour 


POTTING.  247 

over  them  clarified  butter ;  but  observe  to  keep  their  heads 
uncovered  with  butter.     Keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

Venison. 

RUB  the  venison  with  vinegar,  if  stale,  and  let  it  lie  an  hour; 
dry  it  with  a  cloth,  and  rub  it  all  over  with  red  wine  ;  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  beaten  mace,  and  put  it  on  an  earthen 
dish  :  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  set  in  the  oven.  If  a  shoulder,  put  a  coarse  paste 
over  it,  and  bake  it  all  night  in  a  brown  bread  oven.  When, 
it  comes  out,  pick  it  clean  from  the  bones,  and  beat  it  in  a 
marble  mortar,  with  the  fat  from  the  gravy.  If  not  suffi- 
ciently seasoned,  add  more  seasoning  and  clarified  butter, 
and  keep  beating  it  till  it  is  a  fine  paste.  Then  press  it  hard 
down  into  the  pots,  and  pour  clarified  butter  over  it. 

Hares. 

LET  the  hare  hang  up  for  four  or  five  days  with  the  skin 
on,  then  case  it,  and  cut  it  up  as  for  eating.  Put  it  into  a  pot, 
and  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  Put  a  pound  of 
butter  upon  it,  tie  it  down,  and  bake  it  in  a  bread  oven. 
When  it  comes  out,  pick  it  clean  from  the  bones,  and  pound 
it  very  fine  in  a  mortar,  with  the  fat  from  the  gravy:  put  it 
close  down  into  pots,  and  pour  over  it  clarified  butter. 

Herrings. 

CUT  off  the  heads  of  the  herrings,  and  put  them  into  an 
earthen  pot;  lay  them  close,  and  between  every  layer  of  her- 
rings strew  some  salt,  but  not  too  much.  Put  in  cloves, 
rnace,  whole  pepper,  and  a  nutmeg  cut  in  pieces.  Fill  up 
the  pot  with  vinegar,  water,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  white 
wine.  Cover  it  with  brown  paper,  tie  it  down,  and  bake  it  in 
an  oven  with  brown  bread.  As  soon  as  cold,  put  it  into  pot- 
ting-pots  for  use. 

Chars. 

AFTER  having  cleansed  them,  cut  off  the  fins,  tails,  and 
heads,  and  lay  them  in  rows  in  a  long  baking-pan,  having 
first  seasoned  them  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  When 
done,  let  them  stand  till  cold,  put  them  into  potting-pots,  and 
cover  them  with  clarified  butter. 

Eels. 

SKIN,  cleanse,  and  wash  clean  a  very  large  eel.  Dry  it 
in  a  cloth,  and  cut  in  pieces  about  four  inches  long.  Season 


243  POTTING. 

with  a  little  beaten  mace  and  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
little  sal-prunella  beat  fine.  Lay  in  a  pan,  and  pour  as  much 
clarified  butter  over  as  will  cover  it.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
quick  oven;  but  the  size  of  the  eel  will  determine  the  tim£ 
in  baking.  Take  it  out  with  a  fork,  and  Jay  it  on  a  coarse 
cloth  to  drain.  When  quite  cold,  season  again  with  the  same 
seasoning,  and  lay  them  close  in  the  pot.  Then  take  off  the 
butter  it  was  baked  in  clear  from  the  gravy  of  the  fish,  arid  set 
it  in  a  dish  before  the  fire.  When  melted,  pour  the  butter 
over  it,  and  put  by  for  use.  The  eels  may  be  boned  ;  but  in 
that  case  put  in  no  sal-prunella. 

.  Lampreys. 

SKIN  the  lampreys,  cleanse  them  with  salt,  and  wipe  them 
dry  ;  bear  some  black  pepper,  mace,  and  cloves,  mix  them 
with  salt,  and  season  the  fish  with  it:  lay  them  in  a  pan,  and 
cover  them  with  clarified  butter;  bake  them  an  hour,  season 
well,  and  treat  them  in  the  same  manner  as  above  directed 
for  eels.  If  your  butter  is  good  they  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Smelts. 

DKAW  out  the  inskJe  ;  season  with  salt,  pounded  mace,  and 
pepper,  and  butter  on  the  top;  bake  them,  and  when  nearly 
cold,  take  them  out,  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth.  Put  them  into 
pots,  take  off  the  butter  from  the  gravy,  clarify  it  with  morey 
and  pour  it  on  them. 

Pike. 

SCALE  the.  pike,  cut  off  its  head,  split  it,  and  take  out  iljp 
chine  bone;  strew  all  over  the  inside  some  bay-salt  and  pep- 
per; roll  it  up  round,  and  lay  it  in  a  pot,~~cover  it,  and  bake 
it  an  hour  :  then  take  it  out,  and  lay  it  on  a  coarse  cloth  to 
drain,  and  when  cold,  put  it  into  the  pot,  and  cover  with  cla- 
rified butter. 

Lobster. 

BOIL  a  live  lobster  in  salt  and  water,  and  stick  a  skewer  in 
the  vent  of  it  to  prevent  the  water  (retting  in.  As  soon  as 
cold,  take  out  the  gut,  take  out  all  the  flesh,  beat  it  fine  in 
a  mortar,  and  season  with  beaten  mace,  grated  nutmeg,  pep- 
per and  salt :  mix  all  together,  melt  a  piece.,0/  gutter  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  und  mix  it  with  the  lobster  fP&lst  beating  it. 
When  beaten  to  a  paste,  put  it  into  the  pottfiio-pot,  as  close 
and  as  hard  as  possible.  Set  some  butler  in  a  deep  broad  pan 
before  the  fire,  and  when  all  melted,  take  off  the  scum  at  the 
top,  if  any,  and  pour  the  clear  butter  over  the  meat  as  thick 


POTTING.  249 

as  a  crown -piece.  The  whey  and  churn-milk  will  settle  at  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  ;  but  take  great  care  that  none  of  that  goes 
in,  and  always  let  the  butter  be  very  good. 

Shrimps. 

WHEN  they  are  boiled,  and  shelled  ;  season  well  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  little  pounded  cloves:  put  them  close  into  a 
pot,  set  them  for  a  few  minutes  into  a  slack  oven,  and  pour 
over  them  clarified  butter. 

Salmon. 

SCALE  a  piece  of  fresh  salmon,  and  wipe  it  clean,  season 
with  Jamaica  pepper,  black  pepper,  mace,  and  cloves  beat 
fine,  mixed  with  salt,  and  a  little  sal-prunella;  then  pour  cla- 
rified butter  over  it  and  bake  it  well:  take  it  out  carefully 
and  lay  it  to  drain.  When  cold,  season  it  again,  and  lay  it 
close  in  the  pot,  covered  with  clarified  butter. 

Or,  scale  and  clean  the  salmon,  cut  it  down  the  back,  dry 
it  well,  and  cut  it  as  near  the  shape  of  the  pot  as  possible : 
take  two  nutmegs,  an  ounce  of  mace  and  cloves  beaten,  half 
an  ounce  of  white  pepper,  and  an  ounce  of  salt ;  take  out  all 
the  bones,  cut  off  the  jowl  below  the  fins  and  cut  off  the  tail. 
Season  the  scaly  side  first,  lay  that  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot, 
then  rub  the  seasoning  on  the  other  side,  cover  it  with  a  dish, 
and  let  it  stand  ail  night.  It  must  be  put  double,  and  the 
scaly  side  top  and  bottom  ;  put  some  butter  at  the  bottom  and 
top,  and  cover  the  pot  with  some  stiff  coarse  paste.  If  a  large 
fish  it  will  require  three  hours  baking  ;  but  if  a  small  one,  two 
hours  will  do  it.  When  it  comes  out  of  the  oven,  let  it  stand 
h 9  an  hour ;  then  uncover  it,  and  raise  it  up  at  one  end, 
that  the  gravy  may  run  out,  remembering  to  put  u  trencher 
and  a  weight  on  it  to  press  out  the  gravy.  When  the  butter  is 
cold,  take  it  out  clear  from  the  gravy,  add  more  butter  to  it, 
and  put  it  in  a  pan  before  the  fire.  When  melted,  pour  it 
over  the  salmon,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  cold,  paper  it  up. 

Carp,  Tench,  and  Trout, 
MAY  be  potted  in  manner  already  directed  for  salmon. 


250  SALTING  AND  SOUSING. 


CHAPTER  IV. 


SALTING  AND  SOUSING. 

THE  PREPARATION  OF  BACON,  HAMS,  Ifc. 

Bacon. 

CUT  off  the  hams  and  head  of  the  pig,  and,  if  a  large  one, 
take  out  the  chine,  but  leave  in  the  spareribs,  as  they  will  keep 
in  the  gravy,  and  prevent  the  bacon  getting  rusty.  Salt  it  with 
common  salt,  and  a  little  saltpetre,  and  let  it  lie  ten  days  on 
a  table,  to  let  ^11  the  brine  run  from  it.  Then  salt  it  again  ten 
or  twelve  days,  turning  it  every  day  after  the  second  salting  : 
then  scrape  it  very  clean,  rub  a  little  salt  on  it,  and  hang  it  up. 
Take  care  to  scrape  the  white  froth  off  it  very  clean,  and  rub 
on  a  little  dry  salt,  which  will  keep  the  bacon  from  rusting. 
The  dry  salt  will  candy  and  shine  on  it  like  diamonds. 

Or,  take  off  all  the  inside  fat  of  a  side  of  pork,  and  lay  it  on 
a  long  board  or  dresser,  that  the  blood  may  run  from  it.  Rub 
it  well  on  both  sides  with  good  salt,  and  let  it  lie  a  day.  Then 
take  a  pint  of  bay-salt,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt-petre,  and 
beat  them  both  fine ;  two  pounds  of  coarse  sugar,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  peck  of  common  salt.  Lay  the  pork  in  something 
that  will  hold  the  pickle,  and  rub  it  well  with  the  above  in- 
gredients. Lay  the  skinny  side  downwards,  and  baste  it 
every  day  with  pickle  for  a  fortnight.  Then  hang  it  in  a  wood 
smoke,  and  afterwards  hang  it  in  a  dry  place  but  not  in  a  hot 
place.  Observe,  that  all  hams  and  bacon  should  hang  clear 
from  every  thing,  and  not  touch  the  wall.  Take  care  to  wipe 
off  the  old  salt  before  it  is  put  into  the  pickle,  and  never  keep 
bacon  or  hams  in  a  hot  kitchen,  or  in  a  room  exposed  to  the 
rays  of  the  sun,  as  all  these  matters  contribute  to  make  it 
rusty. 

Westphalia  Bacon. 

HAVING  chosen  a  fine  side  of  pork,  make  the  following 
pickle  :  take  a  gallon  of  pump-water,  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of 
bay-salt,  the  same  quantity  of  white  salt,  a  pound  of  petre- 
salt,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  a  pound  of  coarse 
sugar,  and  an  ounce  of  socho  tied  up  in  a  rag.  Boil  all  these 


SALTING  AND  SOUSING.  251 

well  together,  and  let  it  stand  till  cold.  Then  put  in  the  pork, 
let  it  lie  in  this  pickle  for  a  fortnight,  take  it  out,  and  dry  it 
over  sawdust  smoke.  This  pickle  will  answer  very  well  for 
tongues ;  but  in  that  case,  the  tongues  must  first  lie  six  or 
eight  hours  in  pump-water,  to  takeout  the  sliminess;  and 
when  they  have  lain  a  proper  time  in  the  pickle,  dry  them  as 
pork. 

Hams. 

CUT  out  the  hams  from  the  pig,  and  rub  them  well  with 
an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  half  an  ounce  of  sal-prunella  pounded, 
and  a  pound  of  common  salt.  Observe,  that  these  quantities 
of  salts  must  be  allowed  to  each  ham.  Lay  them  in  salt-pans 
for  ten  days,  turn  them  once  in  the  time,  and  rub  them  well 
with  more  common  salt.  Let  them  lie  ten  days  longer,  and 
turn  them  every  clay.  Then  take  them  out,  scrape  them  as 
clean  as  possible,  and  dry  them  well  with  a  clean  cloth.  Then 
rub  them  slightly  over  with  a  little  salt,  and  hang  them  up  to 
dry,  but  not  in  too  hot  a  place. 

Or,  take  a  fat  hind-quarter  of  pork,  and  cut  off  a  fine  ham  : 
take  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  the 
same  quantity  of  common  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  sal-prunella, 
mix  ail  together,  and  rub  the  pork  well  with  it.  Let  it  lie  a 
month  in  this  pickle,  turning  and  basting  it  every  day  :  then 
hang  it  in  a  wood  smoke  in  a  dry  place,  so  that  no  heat  can 
come  to  it ;  and  if  intended  to  be  kept  long,  hang  them  a 
month  or  two  in  a  damp  place,  taking  care  that  they  do  not 
become  mouldy,  and  it  will  make  them  cut  fine  and  short. 
Never  lay  these  hams  in  water  till  they  are  boiled,  and  then 
boil  them  in  a  copper,  or  in  the  largest  size  pot. 

Hams  the  Yorkshire  Way. 

FIRST  beat  them  well,  and  then  mix  half  a  peck  of  salt, 
three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  half  an  ounce  of  sal-prunella,  and 
five  pounds  of  coarse  salt.  Rub  the  hams  well  wit!;  this,  and 
lay  the  remainder  on  the  top.  Let  them  lie  three  days, 
and  then  hang  them  up.  Put  as  much  water  to  the  pickle  as 
will  cover  the  hams,  adding  salt  till  it  will  bear  an  egg,  and 
then  boil  and  strain  it.  Then  next  morning  put  in  the  hams, 
and  press  them  down  so  that  they  maybe  covered.  Letthem 
lie  a  fortnight,  rub  them  well  with  bran,  and  dry  them.  The 
above  ingredients  are  sufficient  for  three  middling  sized 
hams. 

New  England  Hams. 

FOR  two  hams,  take  two  ounces  of  sal-prunella ;  beat  it 
fine,  rub  it  well  in,  and  let  them  lie  twenty-four  hours.  Then 


252  SALTING  AND  SOUSING. 

take  half  a  pound  of  bay-salt,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown 
salt,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  common  salt,  and  one  ounce  of 
saltpetre,  all  beat  fine,  and  half  a  pound  of  the  coarsest  sugar. 
Rub  all  these  well  in,  and  let  them  lie  two  or  three  days. 
Then  take  common  white  sult,and  make  a  pretty  strong  brine 
with  about  two  gallons  of  water,  and  half  a  pound  of  brown 
sugar.  Boil  it  well,  arid  skim  it  when  cold.  Then  put  in  the 
hams,  and  turn  them  every  two  or  three  days  in  the  pickle  for 
three  weeks.  Then  hang  them  up  in  a  chimney,  and  smoke 
them  well  a  day  or  two  with  horse  -litter.  Afterwards  let  them 
hang  about  a  week  on  the  side  of  the  kitchen  chimney,  and 
then  take  them  down.  Keep  them  dry  in  a  box,  with  bran 
covered  over  them.  They  may  be  eaten  in  a  month,  or  will 
keep  very  well  one  year. 

Westphalia  Ham. 

RUB  it  with  half  a  pound  of  the  coarsest  sugar,  and  let  it  lie 
till  night.  Then  rub  it  with  an  ounce  of  saltpetre  finely 
beaten,  and  a  pound  of  common  salt.  Let  it  lie  three  weeks, 
turning  it  every  day.  Dry  it  in  wood  smoke,  or  where  turf 
is  burnt.  When  boiled,  put  it  into  the  pot  or  copper,  with  a 
pint  of  oak  sawdust. 

To  cure  two  Hams  after  the  IV  tstmor  eland  Manner. 

RUB  the  hams  over  night  with  ten  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and 
next  morning  take  three  pounds  of  common  salt,  three  pounds 
of  the  coarsest  sugar,  and  one  pound  of  bay-salt.  Boil  all 
these  in  three  quarts  of  strong  beer;  and  when  it  has  boiled 
a  little  time,  pour  it  over  the  hams.  Let  theni  lie  in  this 
pickle  one  month,  rubbing  and  turning  them  every  day,  ob- 
serving not  to  take  them  out  of  the  pan.  The  same  pickle  is 
good  for  tongues  and  sauces.  Before  they  are  smoked,  rub  a 
handful  of  bran  over  them  to  dry  them,  and  let  them  hang 
three  weeks  or  a  month. 


Mutton  Ha  jus. 

CUT  a  hind-quarter  of  mutton  like  a  ham,  and  rub  it  well 
with  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  and  a 
pound  of  common  salt  well  mixed  together.  Lay  it  in  a  hol- 
low tray,  with  the  skin  downwards,  and  baste  it  every  day 
for  a  fortnight.  Then  roll  it  in  sawdust,  and  hang  it  in  wood- 
smoke  for  a  fortnight.  Boil  it,  and  hang  it  in  a  dry  place. 
Cut  it  out  in  slices,  and  broil  them  as  you  want  them,  and  they 
eat  very  fine. 


SALTING  AND  SOUSING.  253 


Veal  Hams. 

TAKE  a  leg  of  veal,  and  cut  it  like  a  ham.  Take  a  pint  of 
bay-salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  a  pound  of  common 
salt.  Mix  them  all  together,  with  an  ounce  of  beaten  juni- 
per berries,  and  rub  the  ham  well  with  them.  Lay  it  in  a 
hollow  tray,  with  the  skinny  side  downwards,  and  baste  it  every 
day  with  the  pickle  for  a  fortnight,  and  then  hang  it  in  wood 
smoke  for  a  fortnight  longer.  It  may  be  either  boiled,  par- 
boiled, or  roasted. 

Beef  Hams. 

TAKE  the  leg  of  a  fat  Scotch  or  Welch  ox,  and  cut  it  like 
a  ham.  Take  an  ounce  of  bay-salt,  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  a 
pound  of  common  salt,  and  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  which 
will  be  a  sufficient  quantity  for  about  fourteen  or  fifteen 
pounds  of  beef ;  and  if  a  greater  or  less  quantity  of  meat,  mix 
the  ingredients  in  proportion.  Rub  the  meat  with  the  above 
ingredients,  turn  it  every  day,  and  baste  it  well  with  the  pickle 
every  day  for  a  month.  Take  it  out,  and  roll  it  in  bran  or 
sawdust.  Hang  it  in  wood  srnoke,  where  there  is  but  little 
tire,  and  a  constant  smoke,  for  a  month.  Take  it  down,  and 
hang  it  in  a  dry  place,  not  a  hot  one,  and  keep  it  for  use.  Cut 
a  piece  off  as  there  is  occasion,  and  either  boil  it,  or  cut  it  into 
rashers,  and  broil  it  with  poached  eggs,  or  boil  a  piece,  and  it 
eats  very  good  cold,. and  v/ill  shiver  like  Dutch  beef. 

Tongues. 

HAVING  scraped  and  dried  the  tongues  clean  with  a  cloth, 
salt  them  with  common  salt,  and  half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre 
to  every  tongue.  Lay  them  in  a  deep  pot,  and  turn  them 
every  day  for  a  week  or  ten  days.  Salt  them  again,  and  let 
them  lie  a  week  longer.  Then  take  them  out,  dry  them  with 
a  cloth,  flour  them,  and  hang  them  up  in  a  dry,  but  not  in,  a 
hot  place. 

Hung  Beef. 

MAKE  a  strong  brine  with  bay-salt,  saltpetre,  and  puinp- 
water,  and  put  into  it  a  rib  of  beef  for  nine  days.  Then  hang 
it  up  in  a  chimney  where  wood  or  sawdust  is  burnt.  When 
it  is  a  little  dry,  wash  the  outside  with  blood  two  or  three 
times,  to  make  it  look  black;  and  when  it  is  dried  enough, 
boil  it  for  use. 

Or,  take  the  navel  piece,  and  hang  it  up  in  your  cellar  as 
long  as  it  will  keep  good,  and  till  it  begins  to  be  a  little 


254  SALTING  AND  SOUSING. 

sappy ;  then  take  it  down,  and  wash  it  in  sugar  and  water,  one 
piece  after  another,  as  it  must  be  cut  into  three  pieces  Then 
take  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  and  two  pounds  of  bay-salt  dried 
and  pounded  small.  Mix  with  them  two  or  three  spoonsful  of 
brown  sugar,  and  rub  the  beef  well  with  it  in  every  place. 
Then  strew  a  sufficient  quantity  of  common  salt  all  over  it, 
and  let  the  beef  lie  close  till  the  salt  is  dissolved,  which  will 
be  in  six  or  seven  days.  Turn  it  every  other  day  for  a  fort- 
night, and  after  that  hang  it  up  in  a  warm,  but  not  a  hot 
place.  It  may  hang  a  fortnight  in  the  kitchen,  and  when  it  is 
wanted,  boil  it  in  bay-salt  and  pump-water  till  tender.  It  will 
keep  when  boiled,  two  or  three  months,  rubbing  it  with  a 
greasy  cloth,  or  putting  it  two  or  three  minutes  into  boiling 
water,  to  take  off  the  mouldiness. 

Dutch  Beef. 

TAKE  a  raw  buttock  of  beef,  cut  off  the  fat,  rub  the  lean 
all  over  with  brown  sugar,  and  let  it  lie  two  or  three  hours 
in  a  pan  or  tray,  turning  it  two  or  three  times.  Then  salt 
it  with  saltpetre  and  common  salt,  and  let  it  lie  a  fortnight, 
turning  it  every  day.  Then  roll  it  very  straight  in  a  coarse 
cloth,  put  it  in  a  cheese-press  a  day  and  a  night,  and  hang  it 
to  dry  in  a  chimney.  When  it  is  boiled,  put  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  when  cold,  it  will  cut  like  Dutch  beef. 

Pickled  Pork. 

HAVING  boned  your  pork,  cut  it  into  pieces  of  a  size  suit- 
able to  lie  in  the  pan  into  which  it  is  intended  to  be  put. 
Rub  the  pieces  well  with  saltpetre;  then  take  two  pints'of 
common  salt,  and  two  of  bay-salt,  and  rub  the  pieces  well 
with  them.  Put  a  layer  of  common  salt  at  the  bottom  of  the 
vessel,  cover  every  piece  over  with  common  salt,  lay  them 
upon  one  another  as  close  as  possible,  rilling  the  hollow 
places  on  the  sides  with  salt.  As  the  salt  melts  on  the  top, 
strew  on  more,  lay  a  coarse  cloth  over  the  vessel,  a  board  over 
that,  and  a  weight  on  the  board  to  keep  it  down.  Keep  it 
close  covered ;  and  thus  managed,  it  will  keep  the  whole 
year. 

Mock  Brawn. 

TAKE  the  head  and  a  piece  of  the  belly  part  of  a  young 
porker,  and  rub  it  well  with  saltpetre.  Let  it  lie  three  days, 
and  then  wash  it  clean.  Split  the  head,  and  boil  it ;  take  out 
the  bones,  and  cut  it  in  pieces.  Then  take  four  ox  feet 
boiled  tender,  cut  them  in  thin  pieces,  and  lay  them  in  the 


SALTING  AND  SOUSING.  255 

belly  piece  with  the  head  cut  small  :  roll  it  up  tight  with 
sheet  tin,  and  boil  it  four  or  five  hours.  When  it  comes  out, 
set  it  up  on  one  end,  put  a  trencher  on  it  within  the  tin,  press 
it  down  with  a  large  weight,  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  The 
next  morning,  take  it  out  of  the  tin,  and  bind  it  with  a  fillet. 
Put  it  into  cold  salt  and  water,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  It 
will  keep  a  long  time,  if  fresh  salt  and  water  are  put  to  it  every 
tour  days. 

Sausages. 

TAKE  six  pounds  of  young  pork,  free  from  skin,  gristles, 
and  fat.  Cut  it  very  small,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar  till  very 
fine.  Then  shred  six  pounds  of  beef  suet  very  fine,  and  free 
from  all  skin.  Take  a  good  deal  of  sage,  wash  it  very  clean, 
pick  off  the  leaves,  and  shred  it  very  fine.  Spread  the  meat 
on  a  clean  dresser  or  table,  and  then  shake  the  sage  all  over 
it,  to  the  quantity  of  about  three  large  spoonsful.  Shred  the 
thin  rind  of  a  middling  lemon  very  fine,  and  throw  it  over  the 
meat,  and  also  as  many  sweet  herbs  as,  when  shred  fine,  will 
fill  a  large  spoon.  Grate  over  it  two  nutmegs,  and  put  to  it 
two  tea-spoonsful  of  pepper,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  salt  ;  then. 
throw  over  it  the  suet,  and  mix  all  well  together.  Put  it  down 
close  in  a  pot,  and,  when  used  roll  it  up  with  as  much  egg  as 
will  make  it  roll  smooth.  Make  them  of  the  size  of  a  sau- 
sage, and  fry  them  in  butter  or  good  dripping.  Be  sure  that 
the  butter  in  the  pan  is  hot  before  they  are  put  in,  and  keep 
rolling  them  about.  When  they  are  thoroughly  hot,  and  are 
of  a  fine  light  brown,  take  them  out  and  serve  them  up. 
Veal  eats  well  done  in  this  manner,  or  veal  mixed  with  pork. 
Or,  clean  some  guts,  and  fill  them  with  this  meat. 

Bologna  Sausages. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  a  pound  of  pork,  a  pound  of 
bacon,  fat  and  lean  together,  and  the  same  quantity  of  beef 
and  veal.  Cut  them  small  and  chop  them  fine.  Take  a  small 
handful  of  sage,  pick  off  the  leaves,  and  chop  them  fine  with 
a  few  sweet  herbs.  Season  pretty  high  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Take  a  large  gut  well  cleaned,  and  fifi  it.  Set  on  a  saucepan 
of  water,  and  when  it  boils,  put  it  in,  having  first  pricked  the 
gut  to  prevent  its  bursting.  Boil  it  gently  an  hour,  and  then 
lay  it  on  clean  straw  to  dry. 


^  's  Puddings  with  Almonds, 

CHOP  fine  a  pound  of  beef  marrow,  half  a  pound  of  sweet 
almonds  blanched,  and  beat  them  fine,  with  a  little  oraoge- 


256  SALTING  AND  SOUSING. 

flower  or  rose  water,  half  a  pound  of  white  bread  grated  fine, 
half  a  pound  of  currants  clean  washed  and  picked,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  nut- 
meg, and  cinnamon  together,  of  each  an  equal  quantity,  and 
half  a  pint  of  sack.  Mix  all  well  together  with  half  a  pint  of 
good  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Fill  the  guts  half 
full,  tie  them  up,  and  boil  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Or 
leave  out  the  currants  for  change  ;  but  then  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  more  sugar  must  be  added. 

Hog's  Pudding  with  Cuwants. 

To  four  pounds  of  beef  suet  finely  shred,  put  three  pounds 
of  grated  bread,  and  two  pounds  of  currants  clean  picked  and 
washed  ;  cloves,  mace,  and  cinnamon,  of  each  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  finely  beaten,  a  little  salt,  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
sugar,  a  pint  of  sack,  a  quart  of  cream,  a  little  rose  water, 
and  twenty  eggs  well  beaten,  leaving  out  half  the  whites. 
Mix  all  these  well  together,  fill  the  guts  half  full,  boil  them  a 
little,  and  prick  them  as  they  boil,  to  keep  them  from  break- 
ing the  guts.  Take  them  up  upon  clean  c!oths,  and  then  lay 
them  on  the  dish. 

Black  Puddings. 

TAKE  a  peck  of  grits,  boil  them  half  an  hour  in  water, 
drain  them,  and  put  them  into  a  clean  tub  or  large  pan.  Then 
kill  the  hog,  and  save  two  quarts  of  the  blood,  and  keep  stir- 
ring it  till  the  blood  is  quite  cold:  mix  it  with  the  grits,  and 
stir  them  well  together.  Season  it  with  a  large  spoonful  of 
salt,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg 
together,  an  equal  quantity  of  each.  Dry  it,  beat  it  well  and 
mix  it.  Take  a  little  winter  savoury,  sweet  marjoram,  and 
thyme;  chopped  very  fine.  Of  these  take  just  a  sufficient 
quantity  to  season  them,  and  to  give  them  a  flavour,  but  no 
more.  The  next  day  take  the  leaf  of  the  hog,  and  cut  it  into 
dice  ;  scrape  and  wash  the  guts  very  clean  ;  then  tie  one  end, 
and  begin  to  fill  them.  Mix  in  the  fat  whilst  filling  them, 
and  be  sure  to  put  in  a  good  deal  of  fat.  Fill  the  skins  three 
parts  full,  tie  the  other  end,  and  make  the  puddings  what- 
ever length  may  be  required.  Prick  them  with  a  pin,  and 
put  them  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Boil  them  very  sof th- 
an hour,  take  them  out,  and  lay  them  on  clean  straw. 

Scotch  Black  Puddings. 

TAKE  blood  of  a  goose,  chop  off  the  head,  and  save  the 
blood  :  stir  it  well  till  cold,  and  then  mix  it  with  grits,  spice, 


SALTING  AND  SOUSING.  2  51 

salt,  and  sweet  herbs,  according  to  their  fancy,  and  some 
beef  suet  chopped.  Take  the  skin  off  the  the  neck,  then  pull 
out  the  windpipe  and  fat,  fill  the  skin,  tie  it  at  both  ends,  and 
make  a  pie  of  the  giblets,  laying  the  pudding  in  the  middle. 

Turkey  soused  in  Imitation  of  Sturgeon. 

DRESS  a  fine  large  turkey  very  clean,  dry  and  bone  it,  then 
tie  it  up  like  a  sturgeon,  and  put  it  into  the  pot  with  a  quart 
of  white  wine,  a  quart  of  water,  the  same  quantity  of  good 
vinegar,  and  a  very  large  handful  of  salt ;  but  remember  that 
the  wine,  water,  and  vinegar,  must  boil  before  the  turkey  is 
put  in,  and  that  the  pot  is  well  skimmed  before  it  boils. 
When  enough,  take  it  out,  and  tie  it  tighter ;  but  let  the  liquor 
boil  a  little  longer.  If  the  pickle  want  more  vinegar  or  salt, 
add  it  when  cold,  and  pour  it  upon  the  turkey.  It  will  keep 
some  months,  if  covered  close  from  the  air,  and  kept  in  a  cool 
dry  place.  It  may  be  eaten  with  oil,  vinegar,  and  sugar;  and 
some  admire  it  more  than  sturgeon. 

Soused  Tripe. 

BOIL  the  tripe,  and  put  it  into  salt  and  water,  which  must 
be  changed  every  day  till  the  tripe  is  used.  When  wanted, 
dip  it  in  batter  made  of  flour  and  eggs,  and  fry  it  of  a  good 
brown  ;  or  boil  it  in  fresh  salt  and  water,  with  an  onion  sliced, 
and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Send  it  up  to  table,  with  melted 
butter  in  a  boat. 

Pigs  Feet  and  Ears  soused. 

HAVING  cleansed  them  properly,  boil  them  till  they  are 
N  tender,  and  then  split  the  feet,  and  put  them  and  the  ears  into 
salt  and  water.  When  used,  dry  them  well  with  a  cloth,  dip 
them  in  batter,  fry  them,  and  send  them  up  to  table,  as  above 
directed  for  tripe.  They  will  keep  some  time,  and  may  be 
eaten  cold ;  but  take  care  to  make  fresh  pickle  every  other 
day. 

,/ 

Admiral  Sir  Charles  Knowles's  Receipt  to  salt  Meat, 

As  soon  as  the  ox  is  killed,  let  it  be  skinned  and  cut  up 
into  pieces  fit  for  use,  as  quick  as  possible,  and  salted  whilst 
the  meat  is  hot ;  for  which  purpose  have  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  saltpetre  and  bay-salt  pounded  together  and  made  hot  in  an 
oven,  of  each  equal  parts.  With  this  sprinkle  the  meat  at  the 
rate  of  about  two  ounces  to  the  pound.  Then  lay  the  pieces 
on  shelving  boards  to  drain  for  twenty-four  hours.  Turn 
them,  and  repeat  the  same  operation,  and  let  them  lie  for 


268  GARDEN  STU1FS  AND  FUU1TS. 

twenty -four  hours  longer.  By  this  time  the  salt  will  be  all 
melted,  and  have  penetrated  the  meat,  and  the  pieces  be 
drained  off.  Each  piece  must  be  then  wiped  dry  with  clean 
coarse  cloths,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  common  salt  made 
hot  likewise  in  an  oven  and  mixed,  when  taken  out,  with  about 
one  third  of  brown  sugar.  The  casks  being  ready,  rub  each 
piece  well  with  this  mixture,  and  pack  them  well  down,  allow- 
ing about  half  a  pound  of  the  salt  and  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
meat,  and  it  will  keep  good  several  years,  and  eat  very  well. 
It  is  best  to  proportion  the  casks  or  barrels  to  the  quantity 
consumed  at  a  time,  as  the  seldomer  it  is  exposed  to  the  air 
the  better.  The  same  process  does  for  pork,  only  a  larger 
quantity  of  salt,  and  less  sugar;  but  the  preservation  of  both 
depends  equally  upon  the  meat  being  hot  when  first  salted. 


CHAPTER  V. 
TO  KEEP  GARDEN  STUFFS  AND  FRUITS. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

.As  the  art  of  preserving  garden  stuffs  and  fruits  from  being 
injured  or  spoiled  by  keeping,  js  a  matter  of  some  conse- 
quence to  the  superintendant  of  the  kitchen,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  observe,  that  every  species  of  the  vegetable  tribe  must 
be  kept  in  dry  places,  as  damp  places  will  not  only  cover 
them  with  mould,  but  also  totally  deprive  them  of  their  fine 
flavour.  The  same  thing  will  hold  good  with  respect  to  bot- 
tled fruit;  but  take  carer  while  you  endeavour  to  avoid  put- 
ting them  into  damp  places,  you  do  not  put  them  where  they 
may  get  warm,  as  that  will  equally  spoil  them.  When  you 
boil  any  dried  vegetables,  be  sure  that  you  allow  them  plenty 
of  water. 

To  keep  French  Beans  all  the  Year. 

O.vnU'R  the  beans  on  a  very  fine  day,  and  take  only  those 
that  are  young  and  free  from  spots.  Clean  and  dry  them, 
put  a  layer  of  salt  at  the  bottom  of  a  large  stone  jar,  and  then 
a  layer  of  beans ;  then  salt,  and  then  beans,  and  so  on  till  the 
jar  is  full.  Cover  them  with  salt,  tie  a  coarse  cloth  over 
them,  put  a  board  on  that,  and  a  weight  to  keep  out  the  air. 
Set  them  in  a  dry  cellar;  and  when  taken  out,  cover  the  rest 


GARDEN  STAFFS  AND  FRUITS,  259> 

close  again.  Wash  those  taken  out  very  clean  and  let"  tlrem 
lie  in  soft  water  twenty-four  hours,  shifting  the  water  fre- 
quently ;  and  when  boiled,  do  not  put  any  salt  in  the  water, 

The  Dutch  Method  of  preserving  French  Beans. 

TAKE  a  thousand  French  beans,  when  in  full  season,  cue 
them  slanting,  and  as  thin  as  possible ;  then  procure  a  stone 
jar  sufficient  to  contain  them;  in  which  deposit  alternately 
a  layer  of  beans,  and  then  of  common  table  salt,  observing 
that  the  proportion  of  salt  must  be,  for  every  thousand  or 
beans,  about  four  pounds.  When  the  jar  is  full,  let  it  stand' 
to  the  following  day,  and  then  press  them  down  well  till  the 
water  overflows,  and  the  harder  they  are  pressed  the  better. 
Cover  them  with  a  cloth  within  the  jar,  tight  down  upon  the 
beans,  over  which  place  a  trencher  the  size  of  the  inside  of 
the  jar,  and  then  a  heavy  weight  on  the  top.  It  will  be  proper 
now  and  then  to  take  off  the  cloth  and  wash  it  clean,  when  it 
must  be  put  on  again,  as  before-mentioned.  By  these  means 
the  beans  may  be  preserved  for  a  considerable  time.  When, 
dressed,  let  the  quantity  chosen  be  steeped  the  night  before 
in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  they  must  be  well  washed  in 
two  or  three  fresh  waters,  and  put  into  boiling  water,  letting- 
them  boil  hard  till  they  become  tender,  for  which  half  an  hour 
will  be  sufficient.  Take  them  off  the  fire,  and  stew  themwittv 
a  little  butter,  when  they  will  be  fit  for  the  table. 

To  keep  Grapes, 

WHEN  the  grapes  are  cut  from  the  vine,  take  care  to  leave 
a.  joint  of  the  stalk  to  them,  and  hang  them  up  in  a  dry  room, 
at  a  proper  distance  from  each  other,  that  the  bunches  may 
hung  separate  and  clear  of  each  other  ;.  for  the  air  must  pass 
freely  between  them,  or  there  will  be  danger  of  their  growing 
mouldy  and  rotten.  The  Frontiniac  grape  is  the  best  for  thk 
purpose,  which,  if  managed  properly,  will  keep  to  the  end.  of 
January  at  least. 

To  keep  Green  Peas  till  Christmas, 

BE  sure  to  choose  peas  for  this  purpose  that' are  young  ancfc 
fine;  shell  them,  and  throw  them  into  boiling  water  with 
some  salt  in  it :  let  them  boil  five  or  six  minutes,  and  then 
throw  them  into  a  cullender  to  drain.  Then  lay  a  cloth  four 
or  five  times  double  on  a  table,  and  spread  them  on  it.  Dry 
them  well,  and  having  bottles  ready,  fill  them,  and  cover  them 
with  mutton  fat  fried.  When  a  little  cool,  fill  the  necks  almost 
to  the  top,  cork  them,  tie  a  bladder  over  them,  and  set  them 
S2 


260  GARDEN  STUFFS  AND  FRUITS. 

in  a  cool  place.  When  used,  boil  the  water,  put  in  a  little 
salt,  some  sugar,  and  a  piece  of  butter:  when  boiled  enough, 
throw  them  into  a  sieve  to  drain,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  a  good  piece  of  butter ;  keep  shaking  it  round  all 
the  time  till  the  butter  is  melted;  then  turn  them  into  a  dish, 
and  send  them  to  table. 

To  keep  Gooseberries. 

BEAT  an  ounce  of  allum  very  fine,  and  put  it  into  a  large 
pan  of  boiling  hard  water.  Pick  the  gooseberries,  put  a  few 
in  the  bottom  of  a  hak  sieve,  and  hold  them  in  the  boiling 
water  till  they  turn  white.  Then  take  out  the  sieve,  and 
spread  the  gooseberries  between  two  clean  cloths.  Put  more 
gooseberries  in  the  sieve,  and  then  repeat  it  till  all  are  done. 
Pijt  the  water  into  a  glazed  pot  till  next  day  ;  then  put  the 
gooseberries  into  wide-mouthed  bottles,  pick  out  all  the 
cracked  and  broken  ones,  pour  the  water  clear  out  of  the 

Eot,  and  fill  up  the  bottles  with  it.     Cork  them  loosely,  and 
jt  them  stand  for  a  fortnight.     If  they  rise  to  the  corks,  draw 
them  out,  and  let  them  stand  for  three  or  four  days  uncorked; 
Then  cork  them  close,  and  they  will  keep  several  months. 

Or,  pick  large  green  gooseberries  on  a  dry  day,  and,  hav- 
ing taken  care  that  the  bottles  are  clean  and  clry,  fill  and 
cork  them.  Set  them  in  a  kettle  of  water  up  to  the  neck, 
let  the  water  boil  very  slowly  till  the  gooseberries,  are  cod- 
dled ;  then  take  them  out,  and  put  in  the  rest  of  the  bottles 
till  all  are  done.  Have  ready  some  rosin  melted  in  a  pipkin, 
dip  the  neck  of  the  bottles  into  it,  which  will  keep  all  the  air 
from  getting  in  at  the  cork.  Keep  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place, 
free  from  damps,  and  they  will  bake  as  red  as  a  cherry. 

To  dry  Artichoke  Bottoms. 

JUST  before  the  artichokes  come  to  their  full  growth,  pluck 
them  from  the  stalks,  which  will  draw  out  all  the  strings  from 
the  bottoms.  Then  boil  them  till  the  leaves  can  be  easily 
plucked  off,  then  lay  the  bottoms  on  tins,  and  set  them  in  a 
cool  oven.  Repeat  this  till  they  are  dry,  which  may  be  known 
by  holding  them  up  against  the  light ;  when,  if  they  are  dry 
enough,  they  will  be  transparent.  Hang  them  up  in  a  dry 
place,  in  paper  bags. 

To  keep  Walnuts. 

PUT  a  layer  of  sea  sand  at  the  bottom  of  a  large  jar,  and  then 

i  la;:er  of  walnuts  ;  then  sand,  then  the  nuts,  and  so  on  till  the 

jar  is  lull ;  but  be  sure  they  do  not  touch  each  other  in  any  of 


GARDEN  STUFFS  AND  FRUITS.  261 

the  layers.  When  wanted  for  use,  lay  them  in  warm  milk 
and  water  for  an  hour,  shift  the  water  as  it  cools,  and  rub 
them  dry,  and  they  will  peel  well  and  eat  sweet.  Lemons  will 
keep  thus  covered  better  than  any  other  way. 

To  bottle  Green  Currants. 

CURRANTS  should  be  gathered  when  the  sun  is  hot  upon 
them.  Strip  them  from  the  stalks,  and  put  them  into  glass  bot- 
tles. Cork  them  close,  set  them  in  dry  sand,  and  they  will 
keep  all  the  winter. 

To  keep  Mushrooms. 

TAKE  large  buttons,  wash  them  in  the  same  manner  as  for 
stewing,  and  lay  them  on  sieves  with  the  stalks  upwards. 
Throw  over  them  some  salt,  to  fetch  out  the  water.  When 
properly  drained,  put  them  in  a  pot,  and  set  them  in  a  cool 
oven  for  an  hour.  Take  them  out  carefully,  and  lay  them  to 
cool  and  drain.  Boil  the  liquor  that  comes  out  of  them  with 
a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  boil  it  half  way.  Put  the  mush- 
rooms into  a  clean  jar  well  dried ;  and  when  the  liquor  is  cold, 
pour  it  into  the  jar,  and  cover  the  mushrooms  with  it.  Then 
pour  over  them  rendered  suet,  tie  a  bladder  over  the  jar,  and 
set  them  in  a  dry  closet,  where  they  will  keep  very  well  the 
greater  part  of  the  winter.  When  used,  take  them  out  of  the 
liquor,  pour  over  them  boiling  milk,  and  let  them  stand  an 
hour :  stew  them  in  the  milk  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  thicken 
them  with  flour,  and  a  large  quantity  of  butter ;  but  be  care- 
ful not  to  oil  it.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a  little  cream, 
and  put  it  into  the  stew  ;  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  eggs 
are  added.  Lay  untoasted  sippets  round  the  inside  of  the 
dish,  then  serve  them  up,  and  they  will  eat  nearly  as  good  as 
when  fresh  gathered.  If  they  do  not  taste  strong  enough, 
put  in  a  little  of  the  liquor.  This  is  a  very  useful  liquor,  as 
it  will  give  a  strong  flavour  of  fresh  mushrooms  to  all  made 
dishes. 

Or,  scrape,  peel,  and  take  out  the  insides  of  large  flaps. 
Boil  them  in  their  own  liquor,  with  a  little  salt,  lay  them  in 
tins,  set  them  in  a  cool  oven,  and  repeat  it  till  they  are  dry. 
Then  put  them  in  clean  jars,  tie  them  down  close,  and  keep 
them  for  use. 

Te  bottle  Cranberries. 

CRANBERRIES  for  this  purpose  must  be  gathered  when  the 
weather  is  quite  dry,  and  put  into  dry  clean  bottles.  Cork 
them  up  close,  and  put  them  in  a  dry  place,  where  neither 
heats  nor  damps  can  get  to  them. 


•2 62  GARDEN  STUFFS  AND  FRUITS. 

To  bottle  Damsons. 

GATHER  damsons  on  a  dry  day,  before  they  are  ripe,  or 
rather  when  they  have  just  turned  their  colour.  Put  them  in 
wide-mouthed  bottles,  cork  them  up  closely,  and  let  them 
stand  a  fortnight ;  then  look  them  over,  and  if  any  of  them 
are  mouldy  or  spotted,  take  them  out,  and  cork  the  rest  close 
down.  Set  the  bottles  in  sand,  and  they  will  keep  good  till 
spring. 

N.  B.  The  method  of  preserving  different  kinds  of  fruits 
in  sweets  and  jellies,  will  be  found  in  the  Third  Part,  under  the 
.Chapter  of  PRESERVING. 

French  Method  of  preserving  Sorrel. 

HAVING  washed  sorrel  clean,  let  it  drain  ;  then  melt  a 
pound  of  butter  (or  less  according  to  the  quantity  of  sorrel 
meant  to  be  preserved)  in  an  earthen  pot,  and  put  the  sorrel 
on  to  boil.  -  When  it  is  done  enough,  empty  it  out  quite  hot 
into  stone  or  earthen  jars,  the  sides  of  which  must  be  well 
rubbed  with  butter,  and  let  it  stand  until  next  morning.  Then 
melt  some  mutton  or  beef  fat,  to  cover  the  top  about  an  inch 
thick,  to  prevent  the  air  from  getting-  to  the  sorrel,  as  the 
least  particle  of  air  would  turn  it  mouldy. 

French  Method  of  preserving  Endive. 

THE  endive  must  be  first  washed  whole;  then  cut  oif  the 
root,  and,  having  tied  an  handful  of  the  leaves  together,  put 
them  into  an  earthen  pot  to  boil.  When  they  have  bubbled  two 
or  three  times,  take  them  out  and  cut  them  into  slices  :  range 
them  in  pots  with  salt  and  water  sufficient  to  cover  them ;  after 
which,  tie  them  down  tight  with  a  bladder  and  a  piece  of  lea- 
ther. If  wished  to  be  eaten  alone,  they  must  be  boiled  in 
plain  spring  water,  to  take  the  salt  out. 


PART   III. 
CONFECTIONARY  IN  GENERAL, 


CHAPTER  I. 


The  Preparation  of  Sugars. 

1  O  prepare  sugars  properly  is  a  material  point  in  the  bnsi 
ness  of  confectionary  ;  and  as  some  rules  are  undoubtedly  ne- 
cessary to  be  given  in  a  work  of  this  kind,  we  shall  begin  with 
the  first  process,  that  of  clarifying  sugar,  which  must  be  doue 
in  this  manner : 

Break  the  white  of  an  egg  into  the  preserving-pan,  put  in 
four  quarts  of  water,  and  beat  it  up  to  a  froth  with  a  whisk 
Then  put  in  twelve  pounds  of  sugar,  mix  all  together,  set  it 
over  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  put  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Proceed  in  this  manner  as  many  times  as  may  be  necessary 
till  the  scum  appears  thick  on  the  top.  Then  remove  it  from 
the  fire,  and  let  it  settle ;  take  off  the  scum,  and  pass  it 
through  a  straining  bag.  If  the  sugar  should  not  appear  very 
fine,  you  must  boil  it  again  before  you  strain  it,  otherwise,  in 
boiling  to  a  height,  it  will  rise  over  the  pan.  Having  thus 
finished  the  first  operation,  proceed  to  clarify  the  sugar  to 
either  of  the  five  following  degrees : 

First  Degree,  called  Smooth  or  Candy  Sugar. 

HAVING  clarified  the  sugar  as  above  directed,  put  any  quan- 
tity over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  smooth.  This  may 
be  known  by  dipping  the  skimmer  into  the  sugar,  and  then 
touching  it  between  the  fore  finger  and  thumb,  and  imme- 
diately opening  them,  a  small  thread  will  be  drawn  between, 
which  will  immediately  break,  and  remain  as  a  drop  on  the 
thumb.  This  will  be  a  sign  of  its  being  in  some  degree  of 
smoothness.  Then  give  it  another  boiling,  and  it  will  draw 
into  a  larger  string,  when  it  will  have  acquired  the  first  de- 
gree above  mentioned. 


264  SUGARS. 

Second  Degree ,  called  Blown  Sugar. 

To  obtain  this  degree,  boil  the  sugar  longer  than  in  the 
former  process,  and  then  dip  in  the  skimmer,  shaking  off 
the  sugar  into  the  pan.  Then  with  the  mouth  blow  strongly 
through  the  holes,  and  if  certain  bladders  or  bubbles  blow 
through,  it  will  be  a  proof  of  its  having  acquired  the  second 
degree. 

Third  Degree,  called  Feathered  Sugar. 

THIS  degree  is  to  be  proved  by  dipping  the  skimmer  when 
the  sugar  has  boiled  longer  than  in  the  former  degree.  First 
shake  it  over  the  pan,  then  give  it  a  sudden  flirt  behind,  and 
if  it  is  enough,  the  sugar  will  fly  off  like  feathers. 

Fourth  Degree,  catted  Crackled  Sugar. 

HAVING  let  the  sugar  boil  longer  than  in  the  preceding 
degree,  dip  a  stick  into  the  sugar,  and  immediately  put  it  into 
a  pot  or  cold  water.  Draw  off  the  sugar  that  hangs  to  the  stick 
into  the  water,  and  if  it  becomes  hara,  and  snaps  in  the  water, 
it  has  acouirecl  the  proper  degree ;  but,  if  otherwise,  boil  it 
till  it  answers  that  trial.  Take  particular  care  that  the  water 
used  for  this  purpose  is  very  cold,  otherwise  it  will  lead  into 
errors. 

Fifth  Degree,  Called  Carmel  Sugar. 

To  obtain  this  degree,  the  sugar  must  boil  longer  than  in 
either  of  the  former  operations :  prove  it  by  dipping  in  a  stick, 
first  into  the  sugar,  and  then  into  cold  water ;  but  observe, 
when  it  comes  to  the  carmel  height,  it, will,  the  moment  it 
touches  the  cold  water,  snap  like  glass,  which  is  the  highest 
and  last  degree  of  boiled  sugar.  Take  care  that  the  fire  is 
not  very  fierce  when  this  is  boiling,  lest,  flaming  up  the  sides 
of  the  pan,  it  should  cause  the  sugar  to  burn,  which  will  dis- 
colour and  spoil  it. 

Little  Devices  in  Sugar. 

STEEP  gum-tragacanth  in  rose-water,  and  with  some  double 
refined  sugar  make  it  up  into  a  paste :  colour  the  paste  with 
powders  and  jellies  according  to  fancy,  and  then  make  them 
up  into  the  requisite  shape.  Moulds  may  be  made  in  any 
shape,  and  they  will  be  pretty  ornaments  placed  on  the  tops 
of  iced  cakes.  In  the  middle  of  them  put  little  pieces  of 
paper,  with  some  pretty  smart  sentences  written  on  them,  and 
they  will  afford  much  mirth  to  the  younger  part  of  a  com- 
pany. 


TARTS  AND  P  UFFS.  265 


Sugar  of  Roses  in  various  Figures. 

CLIP  off  the  white  of  rose-buds,  and  dry  them  in  the  sun. 
Having  finely  pounded  an  ounce  of  them,  take  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar.  Wet  the  sugar  in  rose- water,  and  boil  it  to  a  candy 
height.  Put  in  the  powder  of  roses,  and  the  juice  of  lemon. 
Mix  all  well  together,  put  it  on  a  pie-plate,  and  cut  it  into 
lozenges,  or  make  it  into  any  other  figure,  such  as  men,  wo- 
men, or  birds.  Ornaments  for  the  dessert,  may  be  gilded  or 
coloured. 


CHAPTER  II. 

TARTS  AND   PUFFS. 

Different  Sorts  of  Tarts. 


\ 


N  the  eighteenth  chapter  of  the  first  part  of  this  work  we  have 
given  sufficient  directions  for  making  of  puff  paste  for  tarts, 
and  also  the  method  of  making  tarts  as  well  as  pies  ;  what  we 
have  therefore  here  to  mention  concerns  only  tarts  and  puffs 
of  the  smaller  kind.  If  you  make  use  of  tin  patties  to  bake 
in,  butter  them,  and  put  a  little  crust  all  over  them,  otherwise 
you  cannot  take  them  out;  but  if  you  bake  them  in  glass  or 
china,  youthen  need  use  only  an  upper  crust,  as  you  will  not 
then  want  to  take  them  out  when  you  send  them  to  table. 
Lay  fine  sugar  at  the  bottom,  then  your  cherries,  plumbs  or 
whatever  sort  you  may  want  to  put  in  them,  and  put  sugar  at 
the  top.  Then  put  on  your  lid,  and  bake  them  in  a  slack 
oven.  Mince-pies  must  be  baked  in  tin-patties,  because  of 
taking  them  out,  and  puff  paste  is  best  for  them.  Apples  and 
pears,  intended  to  be  put  into  tarts,  must  be  pared,  cut  into 
quarters,  and  cored.  Cut  the  quarters  across  again,  set  them 
on  a  saucepan  with  as  much  water  as  will  barely  cover  them, 
and  let  them  simmer  on  a  slow  fire  just  till  the  fruit  be  tender. 
Put  a  good  piece  of  lemon  peel  into  the  water  with  the  fruit, 
and  then  have  your  patties  ready.  Lay  tine  sugar  at  the 
bottom,  then  your  fruit,  and  a  little  sugar  at  top.  Pour  over 
each  tart  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  three  tea-spoons- 
ful of  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in.  Then  put  on  your  lid, 
and  bake  them  in  a  slack  oven.  Apricot  tarts  may  be  made 
the  same,  excepting  that  you  must  not  put  in  any  lemon  juice. 


266  TARTS  AND  PUFFS. 

When  you  make  tarts  of  preserved  fruits,  lay  in  your  fruit, 
and  put  a  very  thin  crust  at  top.  Let  them  be  baked  but  a 
little  while ;  and  if  you  would  have  them  very  nice,  have  a 
large  patty,  the  size  of  your  intended  tart.  Make  your 
sugar- crust,  roll  it  as  thin  as  a  halfpenny,  then  butter  your 
patty  and  cover  it.  Shape  your  upper  crust  on  a  hollow  thing 
made  on  purpose,  the  shape  of  your  patty,  and  mark  it  with 
a  marking-iron  for  that  purpose,  in  what  shape  you  please, 
that  it  may  be  hollow  and  open  to  show  the  fruit  through,  it. 
Then  bake  your  crust  in  a  very  slack  oven,  that  you  may  not 
discolour  it,  and  have  it  crisp.  When  the  crust  is  cold,  very 
carefully  take  it  «t,  and  fill  it  with  what  fruit  you  please. 
Then  lay  on  the  lid,  and  your  business  will  be  done. 

Currants,  Cherries,  Gooseberries,  and  Apricot  Tarts, 

CURRANTS  and  raspberries  make  an  excellent  tart,  and  do 
not  require  much  baking.  Cherries  require  but  little  baking. 
Gooseberries,  to  look  red,  must  stand  a  good  while  in  the 
oven.  Apricots,  if  green,  require  more  baking  than  when 
ripe.  Preserved  fruit,  as  damsons  and  bullace,  require  but 
little  baking.  Fruit  that  is  preserved  high,  should  not  be 
baked  at  all ;  but  the  crust  should  first  be  baked  upon  a  tin  of 
the  size  the  tart  is  to  be.  Cut  it  with  a  marking-iron  or  not, 
and  when  cold  take  it  off,  and  lay  it  on  the  fruit. 

Rhubarb  Tarts. 

TAKE  the  stalks  of  the  rhubarb  that  grows  in  the  garden, 
peel  it,  and  cut  it  into  the  size  of  a  gooseberry,  and  make  it 
as  gooseberry  tart. 

Raspberry  Tart  with  Cream. 

HAVING  rolled  out  some  thin  puff  paste,  lay  it  in  a  patty- 
pan ;  lay  in  some  raspberries,  and  strew  over  them  some  very 
fine  sugar.  Put  on  the  lid,  and  bake  it,  cut  it  open,  and  put 
in  half  a  pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  a  little  sugar.  Let  it  stand  till  cold  before  it  is 
sent  to  the  oven. 

Almond  Tarts. 

HAVING  blanched  some  almonds,  beat  them  very  fine  in  a 
mortar,  with  a  little  white  wine  and  some  sugar  (a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  poundof  almonds)  some  grated  bread,  a  little  nut- 
meg, some  cream,  and  the  juice  of  spinach  to  colour  the  al- 
monds green.  Bake  it  in  a  gentle  oven  ;  and  when  it  is  done, 
thicken  it  with  can<iie<1  orange  or  citron. 


TARTS  AND  PUFFS.  267 


Green  Almond  Tarts. 

TAKE  some  almonds  off  the  tree  before  they  begin  to  shell ; 
•scrape  off  the  down  with  a  knife ;  have  ready  a  pan  with  some 
cold  spring  water,  and  put  them  into  it  as  fast  as  they  are  done. 
Then  put  them  into  a  skillet,  with  more  spring  water,  over  a 
very  slow  fire,  till  it  just  simmers.  Change  the  water  twice, 
and  let  them  be  in  the  last  till  they  begin  to  be  tender.  Then 
take  them  out,  and  put  them  on  a  clean  cloth,  with  another 
over  them,  and  press  them  to  make  them  quite  dry.  Then 
make  a  syrup  with  double  refined  sugar,  put.them  into  it,  and 
let  them  simmer  a  little.  Do  the  same  the  next  day,  put  them 
into  a  stone  jar,  and  cover  them  very  close,  for,  if  the  least 
air  comes  to  them,  they  will  turn  black.  The  yellower  they 
are  before  they  are  taken  out  of  the  water,  the  greener  they 
will  be  after  they  are  done.  Put  them  into  the  sugar  crust, 
put  the  lid  down  close,  and  let  them  be  covered  with  syrup. 
Bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Orange  Tarts. 

TAKE  a  Seville  orange,  and  grate  a  little  of  the  outside  rind 
off  it ;  squeeze  the  juice  of  it  into  a  dish,  throw  the  peels  into 
water,  and  change  it  often  for  four  days.  Then  set  a  sauce- 
pan of  water  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  oranges  ; 
but  mind  to  change  the  water  twice  to  take  out  the  bitterness. 
When  they  are  tender,  wipe  them  very  well,  and  beat  them  in 
a  mortar  till  they  are  fine.  Then  take  their  weight  in  double 
refined  sugar,  boil  it  into  a  syrup,  and  skim  it  very  clean  : 
put  in  the  pulp,  and  boil  it  altogether  till  it  is  clear.  Let  it 
stand  to  be  cold,  then  put  it  into  the  tarts,  and  squeeze  in 
the  juice.  Sake  them  in  a  quick  oven.  Good  tarts  are  made 
with  conserve  of  oranges. 

Chocolate  Tarts. 

RASP  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chocolate,  a  stick  of  cinna- 
mon, add  some  fresh  lemon  peel  grated,  a  little  salt,  and  some 
sugar :  take  two  spoonsful  of  fine  flour,  and  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  mixed  with  some  milk.  Put  all  these 
into  a  stewpan,  and  let  them  be  a  little  over  the  fire  :  add  a 
little  lemon  peel  cut  small,  and  let  it  stand  to  be  cold.  Beat' 
up  the  whites  of  eggs  enough  to  cover  it,  and  put  it  in  puff 
paste.  When  it  is  baked,  sift  some  sugar  over  it,  and  glaze  it 
with  a  salamander. 

' 


268  TARTS  AND  PUFFS. 


Angelica  Tarts. 

TAKE  sonic  golden  pippins  or  nonpareils,  pare  and  core 
them ;  take  the  stalks  of  angelica,  peel  them,  and  cut  them 
into  small  pieces;  'apples and  angelica,  of^each  an  equal  quan- 
tity. Boil  the  apples  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them, 
with  lemon  peel  and  fine  sugar.  Do  them  very  gently  till 
they  are  a  thin  syrup,  and  then  strain  it  off.  Put  it  on  the 
fire,  with  the  angelica  in  it,  and  let  it  hoil  ten  minutes.  Make 
a  puff  paste,  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  tin,  and  then  a  layer 
of  apples  and  a  layer  of  angelica  till  it  is  full.  Bake  them, 
but  first  fill  them  up  with  syrup. 

Spinach  Tarts. 

SCALD  some  spinach  in  some  boiling  water,  and  drain  it 
very  dry.  Chop  it,  and  stew  it  in  some  butter  and  cream, 
with  a  very  little  salt,  some  sugar,  some  bits  of  citron,  and  a 
very  little  orange-flower  water.  Put  it  in  very  fine  puff 
paste. 

Petit  Patties. 

MAKE  a  short  crust,  roU  it  thick,  and  make  them  as  big  as 
the  bowl  of  a  spoon,  ana  about  an  inch  deep.  Take  a  piece 
of  veal  big  enough  to  fill  the  patty,  and  as  much  bacon  and 
beef  suet.  Shred  them  all  very  fine,  season  them  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  a  little  sweet  herbs.  Put  them  into  a  little 
stewpan,  keep  turning  them  about,  with  a  few  mushrooms 
chopped  small,  for  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Then  fill  the  patties, 
and  cover  them  with  crust.  Colour  them  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  and  bake  them.  Some  fill  them  with  oysters,  for  fish 
dishes,  or  the  milts  of  the  fish  pounded,  and  3t£soned  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

Curd  Puffs. 

PUT  a  little  rennet  into  two  quarts  of  milk,  and  when  it  is 
broken,  put  it  into  a  coarse  cloth  to  drain.  Then  rub  the 
curd  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  to  it  four  ounces  of  butter, 
ten  ounces  of  bread,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  lemon  peel  grated,  and 
a  spoonful  of  wine.  Sugar  it  to  the  taste,  rub  the  cups  with 
butter,  and  put  them  for  little  more  than  half  an  hour  into 
the  oven. 

•Sugar  Puffs. 

BEAT  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  till  they  rise  to  a  high  froth  •' 
rhen  put  them  in  a  marble  mortar  or  wooden  bowl,  and  add 


TARTS  AND  PUFFS.  26* 

as  much  double  refined  sugar  as  will  make  it  thick  ;  the*  rub 
it  round  the  mortar  for  half  an  hour,  put  in  a  few  carrawfay 
seeds,  and  take  a  sheet  of  wafers,  and  lay  it  on  as  broad  as  a 
sixpence,  and  as  high  as  possible.  Put  them  into  a  mode- 
rately heated  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  they  will  look 

as  white  as  snow. 

\ 

Wafers. 

TAKE  a  spoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  two  spoonsful  of 
flour,  two  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  cream.  Beat  them  well 
together  for  half  an  hour;  then  make  the  wafer-tongs  hot, 
and  pour  a  little  of  the  batter  in  to  cover  the  irons.  Bake 
them  on  a  stove  fire,  and  as  they  are  baking,  roll  them  round 
a  stick  like  a  spiggot.  When  cold,  they  will  be  very  crisp, 
and  are  very  proper  to  be  eaten  with  jellies,  or  with  tea. 

Chocolate  Puffs, 

HAVING  beat  and  sifted  half  a  pound  of  double-refined 
sugar,  scrape  into  it  an,  ounce  of  chocolate  very  fine,  and  mix 
them  together.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  very  high  froth, 
and  strew  in  the  sugar  and  chocolate.  Keep  beating  it  till  it  is 
as  stiff  as  a  paste.  Then  sugar  the  paper,  drop  them  on  the 
size  of  a  sixpence,  and  bake  them  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

,   Almond  Puffs. 

TAKE  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  blanch  them,  and  beat 
thein  very  fine  with  orange  flower  water.  Beat  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  to  a  very  high  froth,  and  then  strew  in  a  little 
sifted  sugar.  Mix  the  almonds  with  the  sugar  and  eggs,  and 
then  add  more  sugar  till  it  be  as  thick  as  a  paste.  Lay  it  in 
cakes,  and  bake  it  in  a  cool  oven  on  paper, 

Lemon  Puffs. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  double  refined  sugar,  beat  it  and  sift  it 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Put  it  into  a  bowl,  with  the  juice  of 
two  lemons,  and  beat  them  together.  Then  beat  the  white 
of  an  egg  to  a  very  high  froth  ;  put  it  into  the  bowl,  beat  it 
half  an  hour,  and  then  put  in  three  eggs,  with  two  rinds  of 
lemons  grated.  Mix  it  well  up,  and  throw  sugar  on  the 
papers,  drop  on  the  puffs  in  small  drops,  and  bake  them  in  an 
even  moderately  hot. 


270  CAKES. 


CHAPTER  III. 
CAKES. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

KE  you  begin  to  make  any  cake,  take  care  that  all  your 
ingredients  are  ready  to  your  hand.  Beat  up  your  eggs 
well,  and  then  do  not  leave  them  to  go  about  any  thing  else 
till  your  cake  is  finished,  as  the  eggs,  by  standing  unrnixedr 
will  require  beating  again,  which  will  contribute  to  make  the 
cake  heavy.  If  butter  is  put  into  the  cakes,  be  sure  to  beat 
it  to  a  fine  cream  before  sugar  is  added,  otherwise  it  will  re- 
quire double  the  beating,  and  after  all  will  not  answer  the 
purpose  so  well.  Cakes  made  with  rice,  seeds,  or  plurnbs,  are 
best  baked  in  wooden  garths;  for  when  baked  either  in  pots 
or  tins,  the  outside  of  the  cakes  will  be  burned,  and  will  be- 
sides be  so  much  confined,  that  the  heat  cannot  penetrate 
into  the  middle  of  the  cake,  which  will  prevent  it  from  rising. 
All  kinds  of  cakes  must  be  baked  in  a  good  oven,  heated  ac- 
cording to  the  size  of  the  cake. 

• 

A  rich  Cake. 

TAKE  seven  pounds  of  currants  washed  and  rubbed,  four 
pounds  of  flour  dried  and  sifted,  six  pounds  of  the  best  fresh 
butter,  and  two  pounds  of  Jordan  almonds,  blanched  andbeaj- 
en  with  orange  flower  water  till  fine;  four  pounds  of  eggs,  but 
leave  out  the  whites ;  three  pounds  of  double-refined  sugar 
beaten  and  sifted  ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  the  same 
of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  and  three  large  nutmegs,  all  beaten 
fine  ;  a  little  ginger,  half  a  pint  of  sack,  half  a  pint  of  French 
brandy,  and  sweetmeats,  such  as  orange,  lemon,  and  citron, 
to  the  liking.  Before  mixing  the  ingredients,  work  the  but- 
ter to  a  creum.  Then  add  the  sugar,  and  work  them  well 
together.  Let  the  eggs  be  well  beaten  and  strained  through 
a  sieve  :  work  in  the  almonds,  then  put  in  the  eggs,  and  beat 
them  together  till  they  look  white  and  thick.  Then  put  in 
the  sack,  brandy,  and  spices  ;  shake  in  the  flour  by  degrees, 
and  when  the  oven  is  ready,  put  in  the  currants  and  sweet- 
meats, as  it  is  put  into  the  hoop.  Put  it  into  a  quick  oven, 
and  four  hours  will  bake  it.  Remember  to  keep  beating  it 
with  the  hand  whilst  mixing  it;  and  when  the  currants  are 


CAKES.  271 

well  washed  and  cleaned,  let  them  be  kept  before  the  fire,  that 
they  may  go  warm  into  the  cake.  This  quantity  will  bake 
best  in  two  hoops,  it  being  too  large  for  one. 

Plum    Cake. 

To  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour,  well  dried,  put  the  same 
quantity  of  butter,  three  quartern  of  a  pound  of  currants 
washed  and  well  picked;  stone  and  slice  half  a  pound  of  rai- 
sins, eighteen  ounces  of  sugar  beat  and  sifted,  and  fourteen 
eggs,  leaving  out  half  the  whites;  shred  the  peel  of  a  large 
lemon  exceeding  fine,  three  ounces  of  candied  orange,  the; 
same  of  lemon,  a  tea  spoonful  of  beaten  mace,  half  a  nut- 
meg grated,  a  tea-cupful  of  brandy,  or  white  wine,  and  four 
spoonsful  of  orange  flower.  First  work  the  butter  with  the 
hand  to  a  cream,  then  beat  the  sugar  well  in,  whisk  the  eggs 
for  half  an  hour,  then  mix  them  with  the  sugar  and  butter,  and 
put  in  the  flour  and  spices.  The  whole  will  take  an  hour  and 
a  half  beating.  When  the  oven  is  ready,  mix  in  lightly  the 
brandy,  fruit,  and  sweetmeats,  then  put  it  into  the  hoop,  and 
bake  it  two  hours  and  a  half. 

White  Plum    Cakes. 

TAKE  two  pounds  of  flour  well  dried,  half  that  quantity  of 
sugar  beaten  and  sifted,  a  pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  nutmegs,  the  same  of  mace,  sixteen  eggs,  two 
pounds  and  a  half  of  currants  picked  and  washed,  half  a  pound 
of  sweet  almonds,  the  same  of  candied  lemon,  half  a  pint  of 
sack  or  brandy,  and  three  spoonsful  of  orange  flower  water. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  put  in  the  sugar,  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  half  an  hour,  and  mix  them  with  the  sugar  and 
butter.  Then  beat  the  yolks  half  an  hour,  and  mix  them 
with  the  whites,  which  will  take  two  hours  beating.  Put  in 
the  flour  a  little  before  the  oven  is  ready,  and  just  before  put- 
ting it  into  the  hoop,  mix  together  lightly  the  currants,  and 
other  ingredients.  It  will  take  two  hours  hours  baking. 

A  Pound  Cake. 

BF.AT  a  pound  of  butter  in  an  earthen  pan  with  the  hand 
one  way  till  like  a  fine  thick  cream.  Then  have  ready  twelve 
eggs;  but  leave  out  half  the  whites;  beat  them  well;  then 
beat  them  up  with  the  butter,  a  pound  of  flour  beat  in  it,  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  a  few  carravvays.  Beat  all  well  together 
with  the  hand  for  an  hour,  or  beat  it  with  a  wooden  spoon- 
Put  all  into  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  it  in  a  qnick  oven  for 
one  hour. 


CAKES. 


.  •  Rice  Cakes. 

BEAT  the  yolks  of  fifteen  eggs  for  near  half  an  hour  with 
a  whisk.  Put  to  them  ten  ounces  of  loaf  sugar  sifted  fine,  and 
beat  it  well  in.  Then  put  in  half  a  pound  of  rice  flour,  a  little 
orange  water  or  brandy,  and  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  grated. 
Then  put  in  seven  whites  (having  first  beaten  them  well  neav 
an  hour  \vith  a  whisk),  and  beat  them  all  well  together  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  put  them  in  a  hoop,  and  set  them 
for  half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cream  Cakes. 

TAKE  the  whites  of  nine  eggs,  and  beat  them  to  a  stinFroth. 
Stir  it  gently  with  a  spoon,  lest  the  froth  should  fall;  and  to 
every  white  of  an  egg  grate  the  rinds  of  one  lemon.  Shake  in 
softly  a  spoonful  of  double  refined-sugar,  sifted  fine  ;  lay  a  wet 
sheet  of  paper  on  a  tin,  and  with  a  spoon  drop  the  froth  in 
little  lumps  on  it,  at  the  same  distance  from  each  other.  Sift 
a  good  quantity  of  sugar,  over  them,  set  them  in  an  oven  after 
brown  bread,  then  n.ake'  the  oven  close  up,  and  the  froth  will 
rise.  They  will  be  baked  enough  as  soon  as  they  are  co- 
loured. Then  take  them  but,  and  put  two  bottoms  together ; 
lay  them  on  a  sieve,  and  set  them  to  dry  in  a  cool  oven.  Or, 
before  closing  the  bottoms  together  to  dry,  lay  raspberry  jam, 
or  any  kind  of  sweetmeats,  between  them. 

Macaroons. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  blanched ^and  beaten,  and 
put  to  them  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  little  rose  water  to  keep 
them  from  oiling.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  to  a 
froth,  and  put  them  in,  and  beat-  them  well  together.  Drop 
them  on.  wafer-paper,  grate  sugar  .over  them,  and  put  them 
into  the  oven. 

Lemon  Biscuits. 

TAKE  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  atfd  the  whites  of  five,  and 
beat  them  well  together,  with  four  spoonsful  of  orange  flower 
water,  till  they  froth  up.  Then  put  in  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar 
sifted,  beat  it  one  way  for  half  an  hour  pr  more,  put  in  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  with  the"  raspings  of  two  lemons,  and  the  pulp 
of  a  small  one.  Butter  the  tin,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven  ; 
but  do  not  stop  up  the  mouth  at  first,  for  fear  it  should  scorch. 
Dust  it  with  sugar  beforejmtting  it  into  the  oven, 


CAKES.  273 


French  Biscuits. 

TAKE  a  pair  of  clean  scales  ;  in  one  scale  put  three  new- 
laid  eggs,  and  in  the  other  the  same  weight  of  dried  floui. 
Have  ready  the  same  weight  of  fine  powdered  sugar.  First 
beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  with  a  whisk,  till  they  are 
of  a  fine  fioth;  then  whip  in  half  an  ounce  of  candied  lemon 
peel  cut  very  thin  and  fine,  and  beat  well ;  then  by  degrees 
whip  in  the  flour  and  sugar  ;  then  put  in  the  yolks,  and  with  a 
spoon  temper  thejn  well  together.  Shape  the  biscuits  on  fine 
white  paper  vith  a  spoon,  and  throw  powdered  sugar  over 
them.  Bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  not  too  hot,  giving 
them  a  fine  colour  on  the  top.  When- they  are  baked,  with  a 
fine  k/rife  cut  them  oft' from  the  paper,  and  lay  them  up  for  use 
in  dry  boxes. 

Sponge  Biscuits. 

TAKE  twelve  eggs,  and  beat  the  yolks  of  them  for  half  an 
hour;  then  put  in  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  beat  and  sifted, 
and  whisk  it  '.ell  till  it  rise  in  bubbles.  Then  beat  the  whites 
to  a  strong  froth,  and  whisk  them  well  with  the  sugar  and 
yolks.  Beat  in  fourteen  ounces  of  flour,  with  the  rinds  of 
two  lemons  grated.  Bake  them  in  tin  moulds  buttered,  and 
let  them  have  a  hot  oven,  but  do  not  stop  the  mouth  of  it. 
They  will  take  half  an  hour  baking;  but  remember  to  sift 
pounded  sugar  over  them  before  they  are  put  into  the  oven. 

Drop  Biscuits. 

TAKE  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  the  yolks  of  ten.  Beat  them 
up  with  a  spoonful  of  rose  water  for  half  an  hour,  and  then 
put  in  ten  ounces  of  beaten  arid  sifted  loaf  sugar.  Whisk  them 
well  for  half  an  hour,  and  then  add  an  ounce  of  carraway  seeds 
crushed  a  little,  and  six  ounces  of  fine  flour.  Whisk  in  the 
flour  gently,  drop  them  on  wafer  papers,  and  bake  them  in  an 
oven  moderately  heated. 

Spanish  Biscuits. 

TAKE  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  beat  them  half  an  hour, 
and  beat  in  eight  spoonsful  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  to  a 
strong  froth,  and  then  beat  them  well,  with  the  yolks  and' 
sugar  near  half  an  hour.  Put  in  four  spoonsful  of  Horn-,  and 
a  little  lemon  peel  cut  exceedingly  fine.  Bake  them  oa 
papers. 


'274 


Common  Biscuits. 

TAKE  eight  eggs,  and  beat  them  half  an  hour.  Then  put  in 
a  pound  of  beaten  and  sifted  sugar,  with  the  rind  of  a  lemon 
grated.  Whisk  i  an  hour,  or  till  it  looks  light,  and  then  put 
in  a,  pound  of  flour,  with  a  litvle  rose  water.  Sugar  them 
over,  and  bake  them  in  tins  or  on  papers. 

Gingerbread  Cakes. 

TAKE  three  pounds  of  flour,  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  same 
quantity  of  butter  rolled  in  very  fine,  two  ounces  of  ginger 
beat  fine,  and  a  large  nutmeg  grated  :  then  take  a  pound  of 
treacle,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  and  make  them  warm 
together.  Make  up  the  bread  stiff,  roll  it  out,  and  make  it 
up  into  thin  cakes.  Cut  th-.jm  out  with  a  tea-cup  or  small 
glass,  or  roll  them  round  like  nuts,  and  bake  them  in  a  slack 
oven  on  tin  plates. 

Green  Caps. 

HAVING  gathered  as  many  codlins  as  are  wanted,  just  before 
they  are  ripe,  green  them  in  the  same  manner  as  for  preserv- 
ing ;  then  rub  them  over  with  a  little  oiled  butter,  grate 
double-refined  sugar  over  them,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  till 
thev  look  bright,  aad  sparkle  like  frost:  take  them  out,  and 
put  them  into  a  china  dish  ;  make  a  very  fine  custard,  and 
pour  it  round  them.  Stick  single  flowers  in  every  apple,  and 
serve  them  up. 

Black  Caps. 

TAKE  out  the  cores,  and  cut  into  halves  twelve  large  apples. 
Place  them  on  a  tin  patty-pan  as  closely  as  they  can  lie,  with 
the  fl  t  side  downward.  Squeeze  a  lemon  into  two  spoonsful 
of  orange-flower  water,  and  pour  it  over  them.  Shred  some 
lemon  peel  fine,  and  throw  over  them,  and  grate  fine  sugar 
over  all.  Set  them  in  a  quick  oven,  and  half  an  hour  will  do 
them.  Throw  fine  sugar  all  over  the  dish,  when  sent  to 
table. 

Bath  Cakes. 

,  • 

TAKE  a  pound  of  butter,  and  rub  it  into  an  equal  weight  of 
flour,  with  a  spoonful  of  good  barm.  Warm  some  cream,  and 
make  it  into  a  light  paste.  Set  it  to  the  fire  to  rise,  and  when 
making  them  up,  take  four  ounces  of  carraway  comfits,  work 
part  of  -hum  in,  and  strew  the  rest  on  the  top.  Make  them 
into  a.  round  cake,  the  size  of  a  French  roll.  Bake  them  on 


CAKES.  275 

.sheet  tins,  and  they  will  eat  well  hot   for  breakfast,  or  at  tea 
jn  the  afternoon. 

Portugal  Cakes. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  and  mix  it  with  a  pound  of 
beaten  and  sifted  loaf  sugar:  then  rub  it  into  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter  till  it  is  thick  like  grated  white  bread.  Put  to  it  two 
spoonsful  of  rose  water,  two  of  sack,  and  ten  eggs  ;  whip  them 
well  with  a  whisk,  and  mix  into  it  eight  ounces  of  currants. 
Mix  all  well  together,  butter  the  tin  pans,  and  fill  them  about 
half  full,  and  bake  them.  If  they  are  made  without  currants 
the}'  will  keep  half  a  year.  Add  a  pound  of  almonds  blanch- 
ed, and  beat  them  with  rose  water,  as  above  directed,  but 
leave  out  the  flour. 

Shrewsbury  Cakes. 

BEAT  half  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  fine  cream,  and  put  in 
the  same  weight  of  flour,  one  egg,  six  ounces  of  beaten  and 
sifted  loaf  sugar,  and  half  an  ounce  of  carraway  seeds.  Mix 
them  into  a  paste,  roll  them  thin,  and  cut  them  round  with  a 
small  glass  or  little  tins;  prick  them,  lay  them  on  sheets  of 
tin,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven.* 

Saffron  Cakes. 

TAKE  a  quartern  of  fine  (lour,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  but- 
ter, three  ounces  of  carraway  seeds,  six  eggs  well  beaten,  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  mace  finely  beaten  toge- 
ther, a  little  cinnamon  pounded,  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  little  rose 
water  and  saffron,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  yeast,  and  a  quart  of 
milk.  Mix  all  together  lightlv  with  the  hands  in  this  manner: 
first  boil  the  milk  and  butter,  then  skim  off  the  butter,  and 
mix  it  with  the  flow  and  a  little  of  the  milk.  Stir  the  yeast 
into  the  rest,  and  strain  it:  mix  it  with  the  flour,  put  in  the 
seeds  and  spice,  rose  water,  tincture  of  saffron,  sugar,  and 
eggs  :  beat  it  all  well  up  lightly  with  the  hands,  and  bake  it  in 
a  hoop  or  pan  well  buttered.  .It  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half 
in  a  quick  oven.  The  seeds  may  be  omitted  ;  and  some  think 
the  cake  ia  better  without  them. 

Prussian  Cakes. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  dried  flour,  a  pound  of  beaten  and 
sifted  sugar,  the  yolks  and  whites  of  seven  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, the  juice  of  a  lemon,  the  peels  of  two  finely  grated, 
and  half  a  pound  of  almonds  beaten  fine  with  rose  water.  As 
soon  as  the  whites  are  beaten  to  a  froth,  put  in  the  yolks,  and 

T  2 


276  CAKES. 

every  thing  else,  except  the  flour,  and  beat  them  together  for 
half  an  hour.  Shake  in  the  flour  just  before  it  is  set  into  the 
oven ;  and  be  sure  to  remember  to  beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  the  eggs  separately,  or  the  cake  will  be  heavy. 

Apricot  Cakes* 

SCALD  a  pound  of  nice  ripe  apricots,  and  peel  them,  and 
take  out  the  stones  as  soon  as  the  skin  will  come  off.  Then 
beat  them  in  a  mortar  to  a  pulp ;  boil  half  a  pound  of  double 
refined  sugar,  with  a  spoonful  of  water,  and  skim  it  exceed- 
ingly well.  Then  put  in  the  pulp  of  the  apricots,  let  them 
simmer  a  quarter  of  an  hour  over  a  slow  fire)  and  stir  it 
softly  all  the  time.  Then  pour  it  into  shallow  flat  glasses, 
turn  them  out  upon  glass  plates,  put  them  into  a  stove,  and 
turn  them  once  a  day  till  they  are  dry. 

Quince  Cakes. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  the  syrup  of  quinces,  and  a  quart  or  two  of 
raspberries.  Boil  and  clarify  them  over  a  gentle  fire,  taking 
care  to  skim  it  as  often  as  may  be  necessary.  Then  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  sugar,  and  as  much  more  brought  to  a  candy 
height,  which  must  be  poured  in  hot.  Constantly  stir  the 
whole  about  till  almost  cold,  and  then  spread  it  on  plates, 
and  cut  it  out  into  cakes. 

Orange  Cakes. 

QUARTER  Seville  oranges  that  have  very  good  rinds,  and 
boil  them  in  two  or  three  waters  until  they  are  tender,  and 
the  bitterness  gone  off.  Skim  them,  and  then  lay  them  on  a 
clean  napkin  to  dry.  Take  all  the  skins,  and  seeds  out  of  the 
pulp,  with  a  knife  shred  the  peels  fine,  put  them  to  the  pulp, 
weigh  them,  and  put  rather  more  than  their  weight  of  fine 
sugar  into  a  tossing-pan,  with  just  as  much  water  as  will  dis- 
solve it.  Boil  it  till  it  becomes  a  perfect  sugar,  and  then,  by 
degrees,  put  in  the  orange  peels  and.  pulp.  Stir  them  well 
before  setting  them  on  the  fire;  boil  it  very  gently  till  it  looks 
clear  and  thick,  and  then  put  them  into  flat-bottomed  glasses. 
Set  them  in  a  stove,  and  keep  them  in  a  constant  and  mode- 
rate heat :  and  when  they  are  candied  on  the  top,  turn  them 
out  upon  glasses. 

Lemon  Cakes. 

TAKE  the  whites  of  ten  eggs,  put  to  them  three  spoonsful 
of  rose,  or  orange  flower  water,  and  beat  them  an  hour  with  a 
•vhi.sk.  Then  put  in  a  pound  of  beaten  and  sifted  sugar,  and 


CAKES.  217 

grate  into  it  the  rind  of  a  lemon.  When  well  mixed,  put 
in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  the  yolks  often  eggs  beaten 
smooth.  Just  before  putting  it  into  the  oven,  stir  in  three 
quaaci  of  a  pound  of  flour,  butter  the  pan,  put  it  into  a  mo- 
dei-ate  oven,  and  an  hour  will  bake  it.  Orange  cakes  may  be 
made  in  the  same  manner. 

« 

Bride  Cakes. 

TAKE  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  four  pounds  of  fresh  but- 
ter,  and  the  same  quantity  of  fine  well  dried  flour  ;  pound  and 
sift  fine  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  the  same  of  nutmegs, 
and  to  every  pound  of  flour  put  eight  eggs ;  wash  four  pounds 
of  currants,  and  pick  them  well,  and  dry  them  before  the 
fire;  blanch  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  cut  them  length- 
ways very  thin ;  a  pound  of  citron,  a  pound  of  candied  orange, 
the  same  of  candied  lemon,  and  half  a  pint  of  brandy.  First 
work  the  butter  to  a  cream  with  the  hand,  then  beat  in  the 
sugar  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  very  strong  froth.  Mix  them  with  the  sugar  and  butter, 
beat  the  yolks  half  an  hour  at  least,  and  mix  them  with  the 
cake.  Then  put  in  the  flour,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  and  keep 
beating  it  well  till  the  oven  is  ready.  Put  in  the  brandy,  and 
beat  the  currants  and  almonds  lightly  in.  Tie  three  sheets  of 
paper  round  the  bottom  of  the  hoop,  to  keep  it  from  running 
out,  and  rub  it  well  with  butter.  Then  put  in  the  cake,  and 
lay  the  sweetmeats  in  three  layers,  witli  some  cake  between 
every  layer.  As  soon  as  it  is  risen  and  coloured,  cover  it  with 
paper  before  the  oven  is  covered  up.  It  must  be  baked  three 
hours.  If  approved,  put  an  icing  on  it. — See  Icing. 

Little  Fine  Cakes. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  a  pound  and 
a  quarter  of  flour,  a  pound  of  sugar  beaten  fine,  a  pound  of 
currants  clean  washed  and  picked,  and  the  yolks  of  six  and 
the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Beat  them  fine,  and  mix  the  flour, 
sugar,  and  eggs,  by  degrees,  into  the  butter.  Beat  all  well 
with  both  hands,  and  make  them  into  little  cakes. 

Or,  take  a  pound  of  flour,  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  beat 
half  a  pound  of  butter  with  the  hand,  and  mix  them  well  to- 
gether. 

Snow  Balls. 

PARE  and  take  out  the  cores  of  five  large  baking  apples, 
and  fill  the  holes  with  orange  or  quince  marmalade :  then 
make  some  good  puff  paste,  roll  the  apples  in  it,  and 


'278  CAKES. 

the  crust  of  an  equal  thickness.  Put  them  in  a  tin  dripping- 
pan,  b.>ke  them  in  .a  moderate  oven,  and  when  taken  out, 
mako  icing  lor  them.  Let  the  icing  be  about  a  q  arter  of  an 
inch  thick,  and  set  them  at  a  good  distance  from  the  fire  till 
they  are  hnrdened  ;  but  take  care  not  to  let  them  brown. 
Put  one  in  the  middle  of  a  dish,  and  the  others  round  it. 

Little  Plum  Cakes. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  sugar  finely  powdered,  tvo  pounds  of 
flour  well  dried,  four  yolks  and  two  white?  of  eggs,  half  a 
pound  of  butter  washed  with  rose  water,  six  spoonsful  of 
cream  warmed,  arid  a  pound  and  a  half  ot  currants  unwashed, 
but  picked,  and  rubbed  very  clean  in  a  cloth.  Mix  all  well 
together ;  make  them  up  into  cakes,  bake  them  m  a  ;  ot  oven, 
and  let  them  stand  half  an  hour  till  the\7  are  coloured  on  both 
sides.  Then  take  down  ti:e  oven  lid,  and  let  tiu-m  *tand  10 
smoke.  Rub  the  butter  well  into  the  flour,  then  the  eggs  and 
cream,  and  then  the  currants. 

JRafifia  Cakes. 

FIRST  blanch,  and  then  beat  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds 
and  the  same  quantity  of  bitter  almonds,  in  fine  orange,  rose, 
or  ratifia  water,  to  keep  the  almonds  from  oiling.  Take  a 
pound  of  fine  sugar  pounded,  and  sifted,  and  mix  it  with  the 
almonds.  Have  ready  the  white  of  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  mix  them  lightly  with  the  almonds  and  sugar.  Put  it 
into  a  preserving  pan,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire.  Keep 
stirring  it  one  way  until  it  is  pretty  hot,  and  when  a  little 
cool,  roll  it  in  small  rolls,  and  cut  it  into  thin  cakes.  Dip 
the  hands  in  flour,  and  shake  them  on  them ;  give  each  of 
them  a  light  tap  with  the  finger,  and  put  them  on  sugar 
papers.  Just  before  putting  them  into  a  slow  oven  silt  a 
little  sugar  over  them. 

Nuns  Cakes. 

TAKE  four  pounds  of  the  finest  flour,  and  three  pounds  of 
double  refined  sugar  beaten  and  sifted.  Mix  them  well  to- 
gether, and  let  them  stand  before  the  fire  till  the  other  mate- 
rials are  prepared.  Then  beat  four  pounds  of  butter  with 
the  hand  till  it  be  as  soft  as  cream  ;  beat  the  yolks  of  thirty- 
five  eggs  and  the  whites  of  sixteen,  strain  off  the  eggs  from 
the  treads,  and  beat  them  and  the  butter  together  till  they  are 
finely  incorporated.  Put  in  four  or  five  spoonsful  of  orange- 
flower  or  rose  water,  and  beat  it  again.  Then  take  the  flour 
and  sugar,  with  six  ounces  of  carraway  seeds,  and  strew  them 
Ik*  by  degrees,  beating  it  up  for  two  Hours  together.  Put  in 


CAKES.  279 

as  much  tincture  of  cinnamon  as  is  approved.  Then  butter 
the  hoop,-  and  let  it  stand  three  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 
In  beating  butter,  always  observe  to  do  it  with  a  cool  hand, 
and  always  beat  it  in  a  deep  earthen  dish,  one  way. 

Seed  Cakes. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  sugar  beaten  and  sifted,  the  same  quantity 
of  butter,  the  same  or  well  dried  flour,  two  ounces  of  carra- 
way  seeds,  eight  eggs,  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  its  weight  of 
cinnamon.  First  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  then  put  in  the 
sugar;  beat  the  whites  of  the  es^gs  half  an  hour,  and  mix 
theni  with  the  sugar  and  butter,  i  hen  beat  the  yolks  half  an 
hour,  and  put  the  whites  to  them.  A  little  before  it  goes  to 
the  oven,  beat  in  the  flour,  spices,  and  seeds.  The  whole  will 
take  two  hours  beating.  Put  it  into  the  hoop,  and  bake  it  two 
hours  in  a  quick  oven. 

Queen  Calces. 

BEAT  and  sift  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  take  a  pound  of  well 
dried  flour,  a  pound  of  butter,  eight  eggs,  half  a  pound  of 
currants  washed  and  picked,  grate  a  nutmeg,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  mace  and  cinnamon.  Work  the  butter  to  a  cream, 
and  put  in  the  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  near  half 
an  hour,  and  mix  them  with  the  sugar  and  butter.  Then  beat 
the  yolks  near  half  an  hour,  and  put  them  to  the  butter.  Beat 
them  exceedingly  well  together,  and  when  they  are  ready  for 
the  oven,  put  in  the  flour,  spice,  and  currants.  Sift  a  little 
sugar  over  them,  and  bake  them  in  tins. 

Currant  Cakes. 

DRY  well  before  the  fire  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour, 
take  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  fine  loaf  sugar  well 
beaten  and  sifted,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  four  spoonsful  of  rose 
water,  the  same  of  sack,  a  little  mace,  and  a  nutmeg  grated. 
Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  put  them  to  the  rose  water  and  sack. 
Then  put  to  them  the  sugar  and  butter.  Work  them  all  to- 
gether, strew  in  the  currants  and  flour,  having  taken  care  to 
have  them  ready  warmed  for  mixing.  Make  six  or  eight 
cakes  of  them  ;  but  mind  to  bake  them  of  a  fine  brown,  ano^ 
pretty  crisp. 

Whigs. 

PUT  half  a  pint  of  warm  milk  to  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  fine  flour,  and  mix  in  it  two  or  three  spoonsful  of  light 


280  CUSTARDS  AND  CHEESECAKES. 

'barm.  Cover  it  up,  and  set  it  before  the  fire  an  hour,  in  order 
to  make  it  rise.  Work  into  the  paste  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  butter.  Make  it  into  whigs  with  as 
little  flour  as  possible,  and  a  few  seeds,  and  bake  them  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Icings  for  Cakes. 

WHISK  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  solid  froth  ;  and  add  to 
.them  as  much  sifted  treble-refined  sugar  as  they  will  take  : 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  strained,  mix  all  together  with  a 
spoon,  and  spread  over  the  cake  whilst  warm. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

CUSTARDS  AND  CHEESECAKES, 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

1  HE  greatest  care  must  be  taken  in  the  making  of  custards, 
that  your  tossing-pan  is  well  tinned  ;  and  always  remember  to 
put  a  spoonful  of  water  into  your  pan,  to  prevent  your  ingre- 
dients sticking  to  the  bottom  of  it ;  and  what  we  have  here  said 
of  custards,  must  be  attended  to  in  the  making  of  creams,  of 
which  we  shall  treat  in  the  next  chapter.  Cheesecakes  must 
not  be  made  long  before  they  are  put  into  the  oven,  particu- 
larly almond  or  lemon  cheesecakes,  as  standing  long  will  make 
them  grow  oily,  and  give  them  a  disagreeable  appearance. 
They  should  always  be  baked  in  ovens  of  a  moderate  heat ; 
for  if  the  oven  be  too  hot,  it  will  burn  them,  and  spoil  their 
beauty,  and  too  slack  an  oven  will  make  them  look  black  and 
heavy.  This  is  a  matter,  however,  for  which  no  precise  rules 
can  be  given,  and  can  be  learned  only  by  cautious  practice  and 
the  nicest  observations. 

Baked  Custards. 

BOIL  a  pint  of  cream  with  some  mace  and  cinnamon,  and 
when  it  is  cold,  take  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  a 
little jree  and  orange  flovrer-water  and  sack,  arid  nutmeg  and 
sugaj.to  the  palate.  Mix  them  well  together,  and  bake  them 
in  cups. 


CUSTARDS  AND  CHEESECAKES.  281 


Almond  Custards. 

BLANCH  and  beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds  very 
fine,  take  a  pint  of  cream,  and  two  spoonsful  of  rose  water. 
Then  sweeten  it  to  the  palate,  and  beat  up  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs.  Stir  all  together  one  way  over  the  fire  till  it  is  thick, 
and  then  pour  it  into  cups. 

Plain  Custards. 

SET  a  quart  of  good  cream  over  a  slow  fire,  with  a  little 
cinnamon,  and  four  ounces  of  sugar.  When  it  has  boiled, 
take  it  off  the  fire,  beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  put  to 
them  a  spoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  to  prevent  the  cream 
from  cracking.  Stir  them  in  by  degrees  as  the  cream  cools, 
put  the  pan  over  a  very  slow  fire,  stir  it  carefully  one  way  till 
it  is  almost  boiling,  and  then  pour  it  into  cups. 

Or,  take  a  quart  of  new  milk,  sweeten  it  to  the  taste,  beat 
up  well  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  End  the  whites  of  four.  Stir 
them  into  the  milk,  and  bake  it  in  custard  cups.  Or,  put  them 
in  a  deep  china  dish,  and  pour  boiling  water  round  them,  till 
the  water  is  better  than  half  way  up  their  sides ;  but  take 
care  the  water  does  not  boil  too  fast,  lest  it  should  get  into  the 
cups,  and  spoil  the  custards. 

Orange  Custards. 

HAVING  boiled  very  tender  the  rind  of  half  a  Seville 
orange,  beat  it  in  a  mortar,  till  it  is  very  fine,  put  to  it  a 
spoonful  of  the  best  brandy,  the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange, 
four  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Beat 
them  all  well  together  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  pour  in  by 
degrees  a  pint  of  boiling  cream.  Keep  beating  them  till  cold, 
then  put  them  in  custard  cups,  and  set  them  in  an  earthen  dish 
of  hot  water.  Let  them  stand  till  they  are  set,  then  take 
them  out,  and  stick  preserved  orange  on  the  top.  They  may 
be  served  up  either  hot  or  cold. 

Lemon  Custards. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar,  the  juice  of 
two  lemons,  the  out-rind  of  one  pared  very  thin,  the  inher- 
rind  of  one  boiled  tender  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  a 
pint  of  white  wine.  Let  them  boil  a  good  while,  take  out  the 
peel  and  a  little  of  the  liquor  and  set  it  to  cool :  pour  the  rest 
into  the  dish  intended  for  it,  beat  the  yolks  and  two  whites  of 
eggs,  and  mix  them  with  the  cold  liquor.  Strain  them  into 
the  dish,  stir  them  well  up  together,  and  set  them  on  a  slow 


282  CUSTARDS  AND  CHEESKCAKfiS. 

fire  in  boiling  water.  When  it  is  enough,  grate  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  all  over  the  tcp,  or  brown  it  over  with  a  hot  salaman- 
der. This,  like  the  former,  may  be  eaten  either  hot  or  cold. 

Beest  Custards. 

SET  a  pint  of  beest  (milk  taken  from  the  cow  within  three 
days  of  her  calving)  over  the  fire,  with  a  little  cinnamon,  or 
three  bay  leaves,  and  let  it  be  boiling  hot :  take  it  off,  and 
have  ready  mixed  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  the  same  of  thick 
cream.  Pour  the  hot  beest  upon  it  by  degrees,  mix  it  ex- 
ceedingly well  together,  and  sweeten  it  to  the  taste.  You 
may  bake  it  .in  either  crusts  or  cups. 

Cheesecakes. 

PUT  a  spoonful  of  rennet  into  a  quart  of  new  milk,  and  set 
it  near  the  fire;  let  the  milk  be  blood  warm,  and  when  it  is 
broken,  drain  the  curd  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Now  and 
then  break  the  curd  gently  with  the  fingers,  and  rub  into  it 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  a 
nutmeg,  and  t-vo  Naples  biscuits  grated ,  the  ^olksoi  four 
eggs  and  the  white  of  one,  and  an  ounce  ot'  almonds  well 
beaten,  with  two  spoonsful  of  rose  wa^er,  and  the  same  of 
sack.  Clean  six  ounces  of  currants  weii,  and  put  nem  into 
the  curd.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  send  it  to  the  oven. 

Citron  Cheesecakes. 

BEAT  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  mix  them  with  a  quart  of 
boiled  cream.  When  it  is  coid,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it 
boil  till  it  curds.  Blanch  some  almonds,. beat  them  with  orange- 
flower  water,  put  them  into  the  cream,  with  a  few  Naples 
biscuits,  and  green  citron  shred  fine.  Sweeten  it  to  the  pa- 
late, and  bake  it  in  cups. 

l*emon  Cheesecakes. 

BOIL  very  tender  the  peel  of  two  large  lemons,  and  pound 

t  well  in  a  mortar,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  suoar, 

the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  a  little 

curd  beat  fine.     Pound  and  mix  all  together,  lay  a  puff  paste 

on  the  patty  pans,  fill  them  half  full,  and  bake  them.    Orange 

jesecakes are  done  the  same  way;   but  boil  the  peel  in  tvvo 

or  three  waters,  to  deprive  it  of  its  bitter  taste. 

Almond  Cheesecakes. 

BLANCH  four  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds,  and  put  them  into 
d  water  ;  beat  them  with  rose  water,  in  a  marble  mortar  or 


CUSTARDS  AND  CHEESECAKES.  283 

wooden  bowl,  and  put  to  them  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  the 
yolks  of  tour  eggs  beat  fine.  Work  it  in  the  bowl  or  mortar 
till  it  becomes  frothy  and  white,  and  then  make  a  rich  puff 
paste  in  this  manner  :  Take  half  a  pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  Itutter,  and  rub  a  little  of  the  butter  into  the  flour. 
Mix  it  stiff  with  a  little  cold  water,  then  roll  the  paste  straight 
out,  throw  over  it  a  little  flour,  and  lay  over  it  one  third  of 
the  butter  in  thin  bits.  Throw  a  little  more  flour  over  the 
butter,  and  do  so  for  three  times.  Then  put  the  paste  in  tins, 
fill  them,  grate  sugar  over  them,  and  put  them  in  a  gentle  oven 
to  bake. 

Curd  Cheesecakes. 

BEAT  half  a  pint  of  good  curds  with  four  eggs,  three  spoons- 
ful of  rich  cream,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  spoonful  of 
ratifia,  rose,  or  orange  water.  Put  to  them  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  pound  of  currants  well  washed  and 
dried  before  the  fire.  Mix  them  all  well  together,  put  a  good 
crust  into  patty  pans,  and  bake  them. 

Bread  Cheesecakes. 

HAVING  sliced  a  penny  loaf  as  thin  as  possible,  pour  on  it 
a  pint  of  boiling  cream,  and  let  it  stand  two  hours:  then 
take  eight  eggs,  hall  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  nutmeg  grated. 
Beat  them  well  together,  and  put  in  half  a  pound  of  currants 
well  washed  and  dried  before  the  lire,  and  a  spoonful  of  white 
wine  or  brandy.  Bake  them  in  patty  pans  or  raised  crust. 

Rice  Cheesecakes. 

TAKE  four  ounces  of  rice,  and  having  boiled  till  it  be  ten-, 
der,  put  it  in  a  sieve  to  drain.  Then  put  in  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  halt  a  pint  of  cream,  six  ounces 
of  sugar,  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  glass  of  brandy  or  ratifia 
water  Beat  them  all  well  together,  and  put  them  into  raised 
crusts,  and  bake  them. 

Fine  Cheesecakes. 

WARM  a  pint  of  cream,  and  put  to  it  five  quarts  of  milk 
warm  from  the  cow.  Then  put  to  it  rennet,  give  it  a  stir 
about,  and  when  it  is- turned,  put  the  curd  into  a  linen  cloth 
or  bag.  Let  it  drain  well  away  from  the  whey,  but  do  not 
sqiu  eze  it  too  much.  Then  put  it  into  a  mortar,  and  break 
the  curd  as  fine  as  butter.  Put  to  the  curd  half  a  pound  of 
sweet  almonds  blanched  and  beaten  exceedingly  fine,  and  half 
a  pound  of  macaroons  beaten  very  fine,  or  Naples  biscuits',  add 


284  CREAMS  AND  JAMS. 

to  it  the  yolks  of  nine  eggs  beaten,  a  nutmeg  grated,  two 
perfumed  plums  dissolved  in  rose  or  orange  .flower  water, 
and  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar.  Mix  all  well  together,  then 
melt  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  butter,  and  stir  it  well  in. 
Make  a  puff  paste  in  this  manner:  Take  a  pound  of  fine 
Hour,  wet  it  with  cold  water,  roll  it  out,  put  into  it  by  degrees 
a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  shake  a  little  flour  on  each  coat 
whilst  rolling  it.  Finish  the  cake  in  the  manner  before  di- 
rected. The  perfumed  plums,  may  be  left  out,  if  disliked. 


CHAPTER  V. 

CREAMS  AND  JAMS. 

Steeple  Cream. 

1  ARE  two  ounces  of  ivory  shavings,  and  five  ounces  of  harts- 
horn shavings,  and  put  them  in  a  stone  bottle ;  fill  it  up  to  the 
neck  with  water,  and  add  a  small  quantity  of  gum-arabic  and 
gum-tragacanth  :  tie  up  the  bottle  very  close,  and  set  it  into 
a  pot  of  water,  with  hay  at  the  bottom  of  it.  Let  it  stand  six 
hours,  take  it  out,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  before  opening  it, 
lest  it  fly  about :  strain  it,  and  it  will  be  a  strong  jelly.  Take 
a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  beaten  very  fine,  and  mix  it  with 
a  pint  of  thick  cream,  let  it  stand  a  little,  then  strain  it  out, 
and  mix  it  with  a  pound  of  jelly.  Set  it  over  the  fire  till 
scalding  hot,  and  sweeten  to  the  taste  with  double-refined 
sugar  :  take  it  off,  put  in  a  little  amber,  and  pour  it  into  small 
high  moulds  like  a  sugar-loaf  at  top  ;  when  cold,  turn  them 
out,  and  lay  cold  whipt  cream  about  them  in  heaps  :  take  care 
that  it  is  not  suffered  to  boil  after  the  cream  is  put  into  it. 

Pistachio  Cream. 

TAKE  out  the  kernels  of  half  a  pound  of  pistachio  nuts,  and 
beat  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  spoonful  of  brandy.  Put  them 
into  a  tossing-pan,  with  a  pint  of  good  cream,  and  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  beaten  fine.  Stir  it  gently  over  a  slow  fire  till 
it  grows  thick,  and  then  put  it  into  a  china  dish.  When 
it  grows  cold,  stick  it  all  over  with  small  pieces  of  the  nuts, 
and  it  will  be  ready  for  table. 


C  RE  A  MS  AND  JAMS .  285 


Hartshorn  Cream. 

BOIL  four  ounces  of  hartshorn  shavings  in  three  pints  of 
water  till  reduced  to  half  a  pint,  and  run  it  through  a  jelly- 
bag  :  put  to  it  a  pint  of  cream,  and  let  it  just  boil  up;  put  it 
into  jelly-glasses,  let  it  stand  till  cold,  and  then,  by  dipping 
the  glasses  into  scalding  water,  it  will  slip  out  whole :  stick  them 
all  over  with  slices  of  almonds  cut  lengthways.  It  eats  well, 
like  flummery,  with  white  wine  and  sugar. 

Burnt  Cream. 

TAKE  a  little  lemon  peel  shred  fine,  and  boil  it  with  a  pint 
of  cream  and  some  sugar ;  take  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and 
the  whites  of  four,  and  beat  them  separately  ;  put  in  the  eggs 
as  soon  as  the  cream  is  cooled,  with  a  spoonful  of  orange 
flower  water,  and  one  of  fine  flour.  Set  it  over  the  fire,  keep 
stirring  it  till  it  is  thick,  and  then  put  it  into  a  dish.  When 
cold,  sift  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  all  over  it,  and 
salamander  it  till  very  brown. 

Barley  Cream. 

BOIL  a  small  quantity  of  pearl  barley  in  milk  and  water  till 
tender,  and  strain  the  liquor  from  it ;  put  the  barley  into  a 
quart  of  cream,  and  let  it  boil  a  little:  take  the  whites  of  five 
eggs  and  the  yolk  of  one,  beaten  with  a  spoonful  of  fine  flour, 
and  two  spoonsful  of  orange-flower  water  ;  take  the  cream  off 
the  fire,  mix  in  the  eggs  by  degrees,  and  set  it  over  the  fire 
again  to  thicken.  Then  sweeten  it  to  the  taste,  and  pour  it 
into  basons  for  use. 

Ice  Creams. 

TAKE  a  pint  and  a  half  of  good  cream,  add  to  it  half  a. 
pound  of  raspberry  or  any  other  jam,  (or  half  a  pound  of  the 
pulp  of  any  kind  of  ripe  fruics  stoned,  beaten  in  a  mortar, 
and  pulped  through  a  sieve)  ;  mix  well  with  sifted  sugar, 
and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve :  put  it  into  a  freezing  mould, 
set  it  in  ice  and  salt,  and  stir  together  till  it  begins  to  con- 
geal :  cover  the  bottom  of  the  shape  mould  with  white  paper, 
and  having  put  on  the  bottom,  fill  with  the  cream  ;  cover 
the  top  with  white  paper,  put  on  the  cover,  and  set  in  ice  till 
well  frozen  :  when  turned  out  for  table,  dip  the  mould  in  cold 
water,  take  off  the  top  paper  and  cover ;  take  also  off  the 
bottom  cover,  and  push  through  the  mould  with  the  bottom 
paper. 


236  CREAMS  AND  JAMS. 

A  Tnjle. 

COVER  the  bottom  of  a  trifle  dish  with  Naples  biscuits 
broken  into  pieces,  mactiroons  broken  in  half,  an  I  ratifi* 
cakes  ;  just  wet  them  all  through  \\  ith  white  wine,  and  make 
a  good  boiled  custard,  not  too  thick,  and  when  cold,  put  it 
over  it,  and  then  a  syllabub  over  that :  garnish  with  ratifia 
cakes,  currant  jelly,  and  coloured  comfits. 

Or,  having  placed  three  iarge  macaroons  in  the  middle  of 
a  dish,  pour  as  much  white  wine  over  them  as  will  perfectly 
moisten  them  ;  take  a  quart  of  cream,  and  put  in  as  much 
sugar  as  will  sweeten  it ;  but  first  rub  the  sugar  over  the  rind 
of  a  lemon  to  get  out  the  essence  :  put  the  cream  into  a  pot, 
mill  it  to  a  strong  froth,  and  lay  as  much  froth  upon  a  sieve 
as  will  fill  the  trifle  dish;  put  the  remainder  of  the  cream  into 
a  tossing-pan,  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  as  much  sugar  as  will  sweeten  it.  Set 
them  over  a  gentle  fire,  stir  it  one  way  till  it  is  thick,  and  then 
take  it  off  the  fire:  pour  it  upon  the  macaroons,  and  when 
it  is  cold,  put  on  the  frothed  cream,  lay  round  it  different 
coloured  sweetmeats,  and  figures. 

Tea  Cream. 

BOIL  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  fine  hyson  tea  with  half  a 
pint  of  milk,  strain  out  the  leaves,  and  put  to  the  milk  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  and  two  spoonsful  of  rennet :  set  it  over  some 
hot  embers  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  intended  to  be  sent  to 
table,  and  cover  it  with  a  tin  plate :  when  it  is  thick,  it  will  be 
enough.  Garnish  with  sweetmeats. 

Ratifia  Cream. 

BOIL  two  laurel  leaves  in  a  quart  of  thick  milk,  with  a  little 
ratifia,  and  when  it  has  boiled,  throw  away  the  leaves.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  five  eggs  with  a  little  cold  cream,  and  sugar  to  the 
taste :  thicken  the  cream  with  the  eggs,  set  it  over  the  fire 
again,  but  do  not  let  it  boil;  stir  it  all  the  while  one  way,  till 
it  is  thick',  and  then  pour  it  into  china  dishes,  to  cool  for  use. 

Spanish  Cream. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  rose  water,  and  dissolve  it  in 
three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  cut  small :  run  it  through 
a  hair  sieve,  and  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  and 
mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  two  sorrel  leaves,  and  sugar 
it  to  the  taste:  dip  the  dish  in  cold  water  before  putting  in  the 
cream,  then  cut  it  out  with  a  jigging  iron,  and  lay  it  in  rings 
round  different  coloured  sweetmeats. 


CREAMS  AND  JAMS.  287 


Lemon  Cream. 

TAKE  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  pared  very  thin,  the  juice  of 
three,  and  a  pint  of  spring  water ;  beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
very  fine,  and  mix  them  with  the  water  and  lemon.  Then 
sugar  it  to  the  taste,  and  stir  till  it  thickens,  but  take  care  it 
does  not  boil :  strain  it  through  a  cloth,  beat  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs,  and  put  it  over  the  fire  to  thicken  ;  then  pour  it  into  a 
bowl,  and  put  into  glasses  as  soon  as  it  is  cold. 

Orange  Cream. 

PARE  off  the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange  very  fine,  and  squeeze 
the  juice  of  four  oranges;  put  them  into  a  tossing  pan,  with 
a  pint  of  water,  and  eight  ounces  of  sugar ;  beat  the  whites 
of  five  eggs,  and  mix  all,  and  set  them  over  the  fire :  stir  it 
one  way  till  it  grows  thick  and  white,  then  strain  it  through  a 
gauze,  and  stir  it  till  it  is  cold.  Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs 
exceedingly  fine,  and  put  it  into  the  pan,  with  some  cream  ; 
stir  it  over  a  very  slow  fire  till  it  is  ready  to  boil,  then  put  it 
into  a  bason  to  cool,  and  having  stirred  it  till  it  is  quite  cold, 
put  it  into  glasses. 

Raspberry  Cream. 

RUB  a  quart  of  raspberries,  or  raspberry  jam,  through  a  hair 
sieve,  to  take  out  the  seeds,  and  mix  it  well  with  cream.  Put 
in  sugar  to  the  taste,  and  then  put  it  into  a  milk-pot  to  raise  a 
froth  with  a  chocolate  mill.  As  the  froth  rises,  take  it  off  with 
a  spoon,  and  lay  it  upon  a  hair  sieve.  When  there  is  as 
much  froth  as  is  wanted,  put  what  cream  remains  into  a  deep 
china  dish,  pour  the  frothed  cream  upon  it  as  high  as  it  will  lie 
on,  and  stick  a  light  flower  in  the  middle  of  it. 

Chocolate  Cream. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  chocolate,  and 
having  scraped  it  fine,  put  to  it  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve 
it ;  then  beat  it  half  an  hour  in  a  mortar,  and  put  in  as  much 
fine  sugar  as  will  sweeten  it,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream. 
Mill  it,  and  as  the  froth  rises,  lay  it  on  a  sieve.  Put  the  re- 
mainder of  the  cream,  into  glasses,  and  lay  the  frothed  cream 
upon  them. 

Whipt  Cream. 

TAKE  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  a  quart  of  thick  cream,  and 
half  a  pint  of  sack  ;  mix  it  together,  and  sweeten  it  to  the  taste 
with  double-refined  sugar :  it  may  be  perfumed  if  approved 


288  CREAMS  AND  JAMS. 

of,  with  a  little  musk  or  ambergris  tied  in  a  rag,  and  steeped 
a  little  in  the  cream.  Whip  it  up  with  a  whisk,  and  some 
lemon  peel  tied  in  the  middle  of  the  whisk ;  take  the  froth 
with  a  spoon,  and  lay  it  in  glasses.  This  makes  a  pretty  ap- 
pearance over  fine  tarts. 

Pompadour  Cream. 

TAKE  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  and  beat  them  to  a  strong 
froth  ;  put  them  into  a  tossing  pan,  with  two  spoonsful  of 
orange-flower  water,  and  two  ounces  of  sugar  ;  stir  it  gently 
for  three  or  four  minutes,  then  pour  it  into  a  dish,  and  pour 
good  melted  butter  over  it.  This  is  a  pretty  corner  dish  for  a 
second  course  at  dinner,  and  must  be  served  up  hot. 

Snow  and  Cream. 

HAVING  made  a  rich  boiled  custard,  put  it  into  a  china  or 
glass  dish ;  then  take  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  with 
rose  water  and  a  spoonful  of  treble-refined  sugar,  till  it  is  of 
a  strong  froth  :  put  some  milk  and  water  into  a  broad  stew- 
pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils,  take  the  froth  off  the  eggs,  lay  it 
on  the  milk  and  water,  and  let  it  boil  once  up.  Then  take 
it  off  carefully,  and  lay  it  on  the  custard.  This  is  a  pretty 
supper  dish. 

Gooseberry  Jam. 

CUT  in  two,  and  pick  out  the  seeds  of  green  walnut  goose- 
berries, gathered  when  full  grown,  but  not  ripe ;  put  them 
into  a  pan  of  water,  green  them,  and  put  them  into  a  sieve  to 
drain.  Then  beat  them  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  their  weight 
of  sugar.  Take  a  quart  of  gooseberries,  boil  them  to  a  mash 
in  a  quart  of  water,  squeeze  them,  and  to  every  pint  of  liquor 
put  a  pound  of  fine  loaf  sugar.  Then  boil  and  skim  it,  put 
in  the  green  gooseberries,  and  having  boiled  them  till  very 
thick,  clear,  and  of  a  pretty  green,  put  them  into  glasses. 

Apricot  Jam. 

HAVING  procured  some  of  the  ripest  apricots,  pare  and  cut 
them  thin ;  then  infuse  them  in  an  earthen  pan  till  tender  and 
dry:  to  every  pound1  and  a  half  of  apricots,  put  a  pound  of 
double  refined  sugar,  and  three  spoonsful  of  water.  Boil 
the  sugar  to  a  candy  height,  and  put  it  upon  the  apricots:  stir 
them  over  a  slow  tire  till  they  look  clear  and  thick;  but  ob- 
serve, that  they  must  only  simmer,  and  not  boil.  Put  them 
into  glasses. 


CREAMS  AND  JAMS,  389 

Strawberry  Jam. 

BRUISE  very  fine  some  scarlet  strawberries  gathered  when 
Very  ripe,  and  put  to  them  a  little  juice  of  strawberries ; 
beat  and  sift  their  weight  in  sugar,  strew  it  among  them,  and 
put  them  into* the  preserving  pan  :  set  them  over  a  clear  slow 
fire,  skim  and  boil  them  twenty  minutes,  and  then  put  them 
into  glasses. 

While  Raspberry  Jam. 

.GATHER  the  raspberries  on  a  fine  day,  and  when  full  ripe  ; 
immediately  crush  them  fine,  and  strew  in  their  own  weight 
of  loaf  sugar,  and  half  their  weight  of  the  juice  of  white  cur- 
rants :  boil  them  half  an  hour  over  a  clear  slow  fire,  skim 
them  well,  and  put  them  into  pots  or  glasses.  Tie  them  down 
with  brandy-papers,  and  keep  them  dry. 

Red  Raspberry  Jam. 

OBSERVE  the  same  precautions  in  gathering  these  as  above 
recommended.  Pick  them  very  carefully  from  the  stalks, 
crush  them  in  a  bowl  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon, then  strew 
in  their  own  weight  of  loaf  sugar,  and  half  their  weight  of 
red  currant  juice  baked  and  strained  as  for  jelly:  set  them 
over  a  clear  slow  fire,  boil  them  half  an  hour,  skim  them  well, 
and  stir  them  all  the  time  :  then  put  them  into  pots  or  glasses 
as  above  directed. 

Black  Currant  Jam. 

BLACK  currants  must  be  gathered  dry  and  full  ripe,  and 
picked  clear  from  the  stalks;  then  bruise  them  well  in  a  bowl, 
and  to  every  two  pounds  of  currants  put  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  loaf  sugar  finely  beaten  ;  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan, 
boil  them  half  an  hour,  skim  and  stir  them  all  the  time,  and 
then  put  them  into  pots. 


290  JELLIES  AND  SYLLABUBS. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


JELLIES  AND  SYLLABUBS. 

Blanc  Mange. 

1  His  jelly  is  made  three  different  ways,  the  first  of  which 
is  called  green,  and  is  thus  prepared  from  isinglass  :  having 
dissolved  the  isinglass,  put  to  it  two  ounces  of  sweet  and  the 
same  quantity  of  bitter  almonds,  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
the  juice  of  spinach  to  make  it  green,  and  a  spoonful  of  French 
brandy  :  put  it  over  a  stove  fire  till  almost  ready  to  boil, 
then  strain  it  through  a  gauze  sieve,  and  when  it  grows 
thick,  put  it  into  a  melon  mould,  and  the  next  day  turn  it  out. 

Or,  take  a  quart  of  water,  put  into  it  an  ounce  of  isinglass, 
and  let  it  boil  till  reduced  to  a  pint  ;  then  put  in  the  whites  of 
four  eggs,  with  two  spoonsful  of  rice  water  to  keep  the  eggs 
from  poaching,  and  sugar  it  to  the  taste.  Run  it  through  a 
jelly  bag,  then  put  to  it  two  ounces  of  sweet  and  one  ounce 
of  bitter  almonds.  Give  them  a  scald  in  the  jelly,  and  put 
them  through  a  hair  sieve.  Then  put  it  into  a  mould,  and  the 
next  day  turn  it  out,  stick  it  all  over  with  almonds  blanched 
and  cut  lengthways.  ^ 

Or,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  strain  a  quart  of  strong  calf's  feet 
jelly  ;  then  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  put  them  to  the 
jelly.  Set  it  over  the  fire,  and  stir  till  it  boils.  Then  pour  it 
into  a  jelly  bag,  and  run  it  through  several  times  till  it  is 
clear.  Beat  an  ounce  of  sweet  and  the  same  quantity  of  bit- 
ter almonds  to  a  paste,  with  a  spoonful  of  rose  water  squeezed 
through  a  cloth  ;  then  mix  it  with  a  jelly,  and  add  to  it  three 
spoonsful  of  very  good  cream.  Set  it  again  over  the  fire,  and 
stir  it  till  it  is  almost  boiling.  Then  pour  it  into  a  bowl,  stir 
it  very  often  till  it  is  almost  cold,  and  then  fill  the  moulds, 
having  first  wetted  them. 

Orange  Jelly. 

INTO  two  quarts  of  spring  water  put  a  pound  of  hartshorn 
shavings,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  quart.  Then 
pour  it  clear  off,  and  let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold.  Take  the  rind 
of  three  oranges,  pared  very  thin,  and  the  juice  of  six,  and 
let  them  stand  all  night  in  half  a  pint  of  spring-  water.  Then 


JELLIES  AND  SYLLABUBS.  2i?i 

strain  them  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  melt  the  jelly,  and  pour 
the  orange  liquor  to  it.  Sweeten  it  to  the  taste  with  double- 
refined  sugar,  and  put  to  it  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  four  or 
five  cloves,  half  a  small  nutmeg,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Beat  the  whites  of  five  or  six  eggs  to  a  froth,  mix  it  well  with 
the  jelly,  and  set  it  over  a  clear  fire.  Boil  it  three  or  four 
minutes,  then  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag  several  times  till  it  is 
clear ;  but  take  great  care  not  to  shake  it  when  pouring  it  into 
the  bag. 

»  Fruit  in  Jelly. 

TAKE  a  bason,  put  into  it  half  a  pint  of  clear  stiff  calf's 
feet  jelly,  and  when  it  be  set  and  stiff,  lay  in  three  fine  ripe 
peaches,  and  a  bunch  of  grapes  with  the  stalk  upwards.  Put 
over  them  a  few  vine  leaves,  and  then  fill  up  your  bowl  with 
jelly.  Let  it  stand  till  the  next  day,  and  then  set  your  bason 
to  the  brim  in  hot  water.  As  soon  as  you  perceive  it  gives 
way  from  the  bason,  lay  your  dish  over  it,  and  turn  your  jelly 
carefully  upon  it.  Yoii  may  use  flowers  for  your  garnish. 

.     Calf's  Feet  Jelly. 

TAKE  two  calf's  feet,  and  boil  them  in  a  gallon  of  water 
till  it  comes  to  a  quart ;  when  cold,  skim  off  all  the  fat,  and 
take  the  jelly  up  clean  ;  leave  what  settling  may  remain  at 
the  bottom,  and  put  the  jelly  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  pint  of 
mountain  wine,  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  juice  of 
four  lemons  :  beat  up  six  or  eight  whites  of  eggs  with  a  whisk, 
then  put  them  into  the  saucepan,  stir  all  well  together  till  it 
boils,  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Pour  it  into  a  large  flannel 
bag,  and  repeat  it  till  it  runs  clear.  Have  ready  a  large  china 
bason,  and  put  into  it  lemon  peel  cut  as  thin  as  possible;  let 
the  jelly  run  into  the  buson,  and  the  lem^n  peel  will  give  it  an 
amber  colour  and  a  fine  flavour  :  then  fill  the  glasses. 

A  Turkey,  Fowls,  or  Game,  in  Jelly. 

BOIL  a  fine  turkey,  and  let  it  stand  till  cold  ;  have  ready  a 
jelly  made  thus :  Skin  a  fowl,  and  take  off  all  the  fut ;  but  -do 
not  cut  it  in  pieces,  nor  break  all  the  bones  ;  take  four  pounds 
of  a  leg  of  veal  without  either  fat  or  skin,  and  put  it  into  a 
well-tinned  saucepan.  Put  to  it  full  three  quarts  of  water, 
and  set  it  on  a  very  clear  fire  till  it  begins  to  simmer  ;  but  be 
sure  to'  skim  it  well,  and  take  great  care  that  it  does  not  boil. 
Put  to  it  two  large  blades  of  mace,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  twenty 
corns  of  white  pepper,  with  a  little  bit  of  lemon  peel.  Let  it 
simmer  six  or  seven  hours,  and  when  the  jellv  is  stiff  enough, 

u  2 


JELLIES  AND  SYLLABUBS. 

which  may  be  known  by  taking  a  little  out  to  cool,  be  sure  t<7 
skim  off  all  the  fat,  if  any,  but  do  not  stir  the  meat  in  the 
saucepan.  A  quarter  of  an. hour  before  it  is  done,  throw  in  a 
large  tea  spoonful  of  salt,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a 
fine  Seville  orange,  or  lemon.  When  enough,  strain  it  off 
through  a  clean  sieve ;  but  do  not  pour  it  off  clean  from  the 
bottom,  for  fear  of  settlings  ;  lay  the  turkey  in  the  dish,  and 
then  pour  the  jelly  over  it.  Let  it  stand  till  quite  cold,  and 
then  send  it  to  table.  All  sorts  of  birds  and  fowls  may  be 
done  in  this  manner,  and  are  very  pretty  dishes  for  a  supper 
or  cold  collation. 

Gilded  Fish  in  Jelly. 

FILL  two  large  fish  moulds  with  clear  blanc  mange,  made 
as  before  directed  ;  when  cold,  turn  them  out,  and  gild  them, 
with  leaf  gold,  or  strew  them  over  with  gold  and  silver  bran 
mixed.  Then  lay  them  on  a  soup  dish,  and  fill  it  with  thin 
clear  calf's  feet  jelly,  which  must  be  so  thin  as  to  admit  the 
fish  to  swim  in  it.  Lisbon,  ot  any  kind  of  pale  made  wine, 
will  answer  the  purpose. 

Black  Currant  Jelly. 

GATHER  the  currants  on  a  dry  day,  when  they  are  ripe, 
strip  them  off  the  stalks,  and  put  them  into  a  large  stewpot. 
Put  a  quart  of  water  to  every  ten  quarts  of  currants,  tie  a 
paper  over  them,  and  set  them  in  a  cool  oven  for  two  hours. 
Then  squeeze  them  through  a  very  fine  cloth,  and  to  every 
quart  of  juice  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  broken  into 
small  pieces.  Stir  it  gently  till  the  sugar  is  melted,  and  when 
it  boils,  skim  it  well.  Let  it  boil  pretty  quick  for  half  an 
hour  over  a  clear  fire,  then  pour  it  into  pots,  and  put  brandy- 
papers  over  them. 

Red  Currant  Jelly. 

GATHER  the  currants,  and  strip  them  off  the  stalks,  as  be- 
tore  directed.  Put  them  into  a  large  stewpot,  tie  paper  over 
them,  and  let  them  stand  an  hour  in  a  cool  oven.  Then 
strain  them  through  a  cloth,  and  to  every  quart  of  juice  add 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar,  broken  into  small  lumps. 
Stir  it  gently  over  a  clear  fire  till  the  sugar  is  melted,  skim 
it  well,  and  let  it  boil  pretty  quick  for  twenty  minutes.  Then 
pour  it  hot  into  pots  ;  for  if  suffered  to  cool,  it  will  break  the 
jelly,  and  will  not  set  so  well  as  when  it  is  hot.  Put  brandy- 
papers  over  them,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place.  In  the  same 
manner,  a  pretty  jelly  may  be  made  of  half  white  and  half 
red  currants. 


JELLIES  AND  SYLLABUBS.  293 


Ribband  Jelly. 

TAKE  four  calf's  feet,  take  out  the  great  bones,  and  put 
the  feet  into  a  pot  with  ten  quarts  of  water,  three  ounces  of 
hartshorn  shavings,  the  same  quantity  of  isinglass,  a  nutmeg- 
quartered,  and  four  blades  of  mace  :  boil  it  till  it  comes  to  two 
quarts,  then  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  let  it  stand 
twenty-four  *iours.  Scrape  off  all  the  fat  from  the  top  very 
clean,  slice  the  jelly,  and  put  to  it  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Boil  it  a  little,  and  strain  it  through  a 
flannel  bag.  Then  run  the  jelly  into  little  high  glasses,  and 
run  every  colour  as  thick  as  the  finger;  but  observe,  that  one 
colour  must  be  thoroughly  cold  before  another  is  put  on  ;  and 
that  which  is  put  on  must  be  but  blood -warm,  otherwise  they 
will  mix  together.  Colour  red  with  cochineal,  green  with 
spinach,  yellow  with  saffron,  blue  with  syrup  of  violets,  white 
with  thick  cream,  and  sometimes  the  jelly  by  itself. 

Hen  and  Chickens  in  Jelly. 

HAVING  made  some  flummery  with  plenty  of  sweet  almonds 
in  it,  colour  part  of  it  brown  with  chocolate,  and  put  it  into  a 
mould  of  the  shape  of  a  hen.  Then  colour  some  more  flum- 
mery with  t'-'e  yo.k  of  a  hard  egg  beat  as  fine  as  possible, 
and  leave  some  of  the  flummery  white.  Then  fill  the  moulds 
of  seven  chickens,  three  with  white  flummery,  three  with 
yellow,  and  one  of  tiie  colour  of  the  hen.  When  cold,  turn 
them  into  a  deep  dish,  and  put  round  them  lemon  peel 
boiled  tender,  and  cut  like  straw.  Then  put  a  little  clear  calf's 
feet  jelly  under  them,  to  keep  them  to  their  places.  Let  it 
stand  till  it  is  stiff,  and  then  fill  up  the  dish  with  more  jelly. 

Hartshorn  Jelly. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  hartshorn  shavings,  and  boil  in  three 
quarts  of  water  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it  becomes  a  jelly  :  if 
a  little  is  taken  out  to  cool,  and  it  hangs  on  the  spoon,  it  is 
enough.  Strain  it  while  hot,  and  put  it  in  a  well-tinned  sauce- 
pan :  put  to  it  a  pint  of  Rhenish  wine,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar;  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  or  more  to 
a  froth,  stir  it  all  together,  that  the  whites  may  mix  well  with 
the  jelly,  and  pour  it  in  as  if  for  cooling  it.  Let  it  boil  two  or 
three  minutes,  then  put  in  the  juice  of  three  or  four  lemons, 
and  let  it  boil  a  minute  or  two  longer.  When  finely  curdled, 
and  of  a  pure  white  colour,  pour  the  jelly  into  a  swan-skin 
jelly-bag  over  a  bowl  or  a  bason.  Strain  it  in  this  mannejr 


594-  JELLIES  AND  SYLLABUBS. 

several  times  till  it  is  as  clear  as  rock  water,  and  then  fill  the 
glasses  with  a  spoon.  Have  ready  the  thin  ,rind  of  some 
lemons,  and  having  half  filled  the  glasses,  throw  the  peel 
into  the  bason.  When  the  jelly  is  all  run  out  of  the  bag  into 
the  bason,  fill  the  rest  of  the  glasses  with  a  clean  spoon,  and 
the  lemon  peel  will  give  the  jelly  a  fine  amber  colour.  No 
rule  is  to  be  given  for  putting  in  the  ingredients,  as  taste  and 
fancy  only  can  determine  it ;  but  most  people  like  to  have 
them  sweet,  and  indeed  they  are  insipid  if  they  are  not  so. 

Flummery. 

TAKE  an  ounce  of  bitter,  and  the  same  quantity  of  sweet 
almonds,  put  them  into  a  bason,  and  pour  over  them  some 
boiling  water  to  make  the  skins  come  off;  strip  off  the  skins, 
and  throw  the  kernels  into  cold  water;  take  them  out,  and 
beat  them  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  a  little  rose  water  to  keep 
them  from  oiling,  and  when  beaten,  put  them  into  a  pint  of 
calf 's  feet  stock.  Set  it  over  the  fire,  and  sweeten  it  to  the 
taste  with  loaf  sugar.  As  soon  as  it  boils,  strain  it  through  a 
piece  of  muslin  or  gauze,  and  when  it  is  a  little  cold,  put  it 
into  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  keep  stirring  it  often  till  it 
grows  thick  and  cold.  Wet  the  moulds  in  cold  water,  and 
pour  in  the  flummery.  Let  them  stand  about  six  hours  be- 
fore turning  them  out ;  and  if  the  flummery  is  stiff,  wet^the 
moulds,  and  it  will  turn  out  without  putting  them  into  warm 
water,  which  will  be  a  great  advantage  to  the  look  of  the 
figures,  as  warm  water  gives  a  dulness  to  the  flummery. 

French  Flummery. 

BEAT  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  fine,  put  to  it  a  quart  of 
cream,  and  mix  them  well  together;  let  it  boil  softly  over  a 
slow  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  stir  it  all  the  time  :  take 
it  off,  sweeten  it  to  the  taste,  and  put  in  a  spoonful  of  rose 
water,  and  another  of  orange-flower  water.  Strain  it,  and 
pour  it  into  a  glass  or  bason,  and  when  cold,  turn  it  out. 

Green  Melon  in  Flummery. 

PUT  plenty  of  bitter  almonds  into  a  little  stiff  flummery, 
and  add  to  it  as  much  juice  of  spinach  as  will  make  it  of  a 
fine  pale  green.  When  it  becomes  as  thick  as  good  cream, 
wet  the  melon  mould,  and  put  it  in. "  Then  put  a  pint  of  clear 
calf's  feet  jelly  into  a  large  bason,  and  let  them  stand  till  the 
next  day.  Then  turn  out  the  melon,  and  lay  it  down  in  the 
middle  of  the  bason  of  jelly.  Then  fill  up  the  bason  with 
jelly  that  is  beginning  to  set,  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  The 
next  day,  turn  it  out  the  same  way  as  fruit  in  jelly. 


JELLIES  AND  SYLLABUBS.  295 


Solomon's  Temple  in  Flummery. 

DIVIDE  a  quart  of  stiff-flummery  into  three  parts,  and  make 
part  a  pretty  pink  colour  with  a  little  cochineal  bruised 
fine,  and  steep  it  in  French  brandy.  Scrape  an  ounce  of 
chocolate  very  fine,  dissolve  it  in  a  little  strong  coffee,  and 
mix  it  with  another  part  of  the  flummery,  to  make  it  a  light 
stone  colour.  The  last  part  must  be  white.  Then  wet  the 
temple  mould,  and  fit  it  in  a  pot  to  stand  even.  Fill  the  top 
of  the  temple  with  red  flummery  for  the  steps',  and  the  four 
points  with  white.  Then  fill  it  up  with  chocolate  flummery, 
and  let  it  stand  till  the  next  day.  Then  loosen  it  round  with 
a  pin,  and  shake  it  loose  very  gently  ;  but  do  not  dip  the 
mould  in  warm  water,  as  that  will  take  off  the  gloss,  and 
spoil  the  colour.  When  it  is  turned  out  stick  a  small  sprig 
of  flowers,  down  from  the  top  of  every  point,  which  will  not 
only  strengthen  it,  but  also  give  it  a  pretty  appearance.  Lay 
round  it  rock  candy  sweetmeats. 

Eggs  and  Bacon  in  Flummery. 

MAKE  part  of  a  pint  of  stiff  flummery  of  a  pretty  pink 
colour  with  cochineal.  Then  dip  a  potting  pan  in  cold  water, 
and  pour  in  red  flummery  to  the  thickness  of  a  crown-piece, 
then  the  same  of  white  flummery,  and  another  of  red,  and 
twice  the  thickness  of  white  flummery  at  the  top.  Remember 
that  one  layer  must  be  stiff  and  cold  before  another  is  added. 
Then  take  five  tea-cups,  and  put  a  large  spoonful  of  white 
flummery  into  each  of  them,  and  let  them  stand  all  night. 
Then  turn  the  flummery  out  of  the  potting  pots,  on  the  back 
of  a  plate,  with  cold  water.  Cut  the  flummery  into  thin  slices, 
and  Jay  it  on  a  china  dish.  Then  turn  the  flummery  out  of 
the  cups  on  the  dish,  and  take  a  bit  out  of  the  top  of  every 
one,  and  lay  in  half  a  preserved  apricot,  which  will  confine 
the  syrup  from  discolouring  the  flummery,  and  make  it  look 
like  the  yolk  of  a  poached  egg. 

A  Hedge-Hog. 

BEAT  well  in  a  mortar  two  pounds  of  blanched  almonds, 
with  a  little  canary  and  orange-flower  water  to  keep  them 
from  oiling ;  having  made  them  into  a  stiff  paste,  beat  in 
the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  and  seven  whites.  Put  to  it  a  pint 
of  cream,  sweeten  it  with  sugar,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire. 
Keep  it  constantly  stirring  till  it  is  thick  enough  to  make  it 
into  the  form  of  a  hedge-Yiog.  Then  stick  it  full  of  blanched 
almonds,  slit  and  stuck  up  like  the  bristles  of  a  hedge-hog,  and 


296  JELLIES  AND  SYLLABUBS. 

then  put  it  into  a  dish.  Take  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  beat  up,  and  sweeten  them  with  sugar  to  the 
palate.  Stir  them  together  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  quite  hot, 
and  then  pour  it  into  the  dish  round  the  hedge-hog,  and  let  it 
stand  till  it  is  cold. 

Savoury  Jelly. 

PUT  into  a  stewpan  some  slices  of  lean  veal  and  ham,  with 
a  carrot  and  turnip,  or  two  or  three  onions.  Cover  it,  and  let 
it  sweat  on  a  slow  fire,  till  it  is  of  a  deep  brown:  put  to  it  a 
quart  of  very  clear  broth,  some  whole  pepper,  mace,  a  very 
little  isinglass,  and  salt  to  the  palate.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes, 
then  strain  it  through  a  tamis,  skim  off  all  the  fat,  and  put  to  it 
the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Then  run  it  several  times  through  a 
jelly-bag  till  it  is  perfectly  clear. 

Solid  Syllabubs. 

PUT  in  a  pint  of  white  wine  to  a  quart  of  rich  cream,  the 
juice  of  four  lemons,  and  sugar  it  to  the  taste.  Whip  it 
up  well,  take  off  the  froth  as  it  rises,  and  put  it  upon  a  hair 
sieve.  Let  it  stand  till  the  next  day  in  a  cool  place,  then  fill 
glasses  better  than  half  full  with  the  thin,  put  on  the  froth,  and 
heap  it  as  high  as  possible.  It  will  keep  for  several  days,  and 
the  bottom  look  clear. 

Syllabub  under  the  Cow. 

PUT  into  a  punch  bowl  a  pint  of  cider,  and  a  bottle  of 
strong  beer.  Grate  in  a  small  nutmeg,  and  sweeten  it  to  the 
taste.  Then  milk  from  the  cow  as  much  milk  as  will  make  a 
strong  froth.  Then  let  it  stand  an  hour,  sirew  over  it  a  few 
currants  well  washed,  picked,  and  plumped  before  the  fire, 
and  it  will  be  fit  for  service. 

Whipt  Syllabubs. 

RUB  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar  on  the  outside  of  a  lemon,  put  it 
into  a  pint  of  thin  cream,  and  sweeten  it  to  the  taste.  Then 
put  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine  or 
French  brandy.  Mill  it  to  a  froth  with  a  chocolate  mill,  and 
take  it  off  as  it  rises,  and  lay  it  into  a  hair  sieve.  Then  fill  one 
half  of  the  glasses  a  little  more  than  half  full  with  white  wine, 
and  the  other  half  of  the  glasses  a  little  more  than  half  full 
with  red  wine:  lay  on  the  froth  as  high  as  possible  ;  but  take 
care  that  it  is  well  drained  on  a  sieve,  otherwise  it  will  mix 
with  the  wine,  and  the  syllabub  will  be  thereby  spoiled. 


JELLIES  AND  SYLLABUBS.  297 

Lemon  Syllabubs. 

RUB  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  upon  the  out-rind 
of  two  lemons,  to  get  all  the  essence  out  of  them,  and  then 
put  the  sugar  into  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
white  wine;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  both  lemons,  and  let  it 
stand  for  two  hours :  then  mill  it  with  a  chocolate  mill  to  raise 
the  froth,  and  take  it  off -with  a  spoon  as  it  rises,  or  it  will  make 
it  heavy.  Lay  it  upon  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  then  fill  the 
glasses  with  the  remainder,  and  lay  on  the  froth  as  high  as 
possible.  Let  them  stand  all  night,  and  they  will  be  clear  at 
the  bottom. 

Everlasting  Syllabubs. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  Rhenish  wine,  half  a  pint  of  sack,  with 
the  juice  of  two  large  Seville  oranges,  and  put  them  into  two 
pints  and  a  half  of  thick  cream.  Grate  in  just  the  yellow 
rind  of  three  lemons,  and  put  in  a  pound  of  double-refined 
sugar  well  beaten  and  sifted  ;  mix  all  together,  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  orange-flower  water,  and  with  a  whisk  beat  it  well  to- 
gether for  half  an  hour.  With  a  spoon  take  off  the  froth, 
and  lay  it  on  a  sieve  to  drain,  and  then  fill  the  glasses.  These 
will  keep  better  than  a  week,  and  should  always  be  made  the 
day  before  they  are  wanted.  The  best  way  to  whip  a  sylla- 
bub, is,  have  a  fine  large  chocolate  mill,  which  must  be  kept 
on  purpose,  and  a  large  deep  bowl  to  mill  them  in,  as  this  way 
they  will  be  done  the  quicker,  and  the  froth  be  the  stronger. 
For  the  thin  that  is  left  at  the  bottom,  have  ready  some  calf's 
feet  jelly  boiled,  and  clarified,  in  which  must  be  nothing  but 
the  calf's  feet  boiled  to  a  hard  jelly.  When  it  is  cold,  take 
off  the  fat,  clear  it  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  run  it  through  a 
flannel  bag,  and  mix -it  with  the  clear  that  was  left  of  the 
syllabub.  Sweeten  it  to  the  palate,  and  give  it  a  boil ;  then 
pour  it  into  basons,  or  glasses.  When  cold,  turn  it  out,  and 
it  will  be  a  fine  flummery. 


298  PRESERVING. 


CHAPTER  VII. 
PRESERVING. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

IN  making  syrfcps  for  preserves,  take  care  to  pound  your 
sugar,  and  let  it  dissolve  in  the  syrup  before  you  set  it  on  the 
fire,  as  it  will  make  the  scum  rise  well,  and  your  syrup  will 
be  of  a  better  colour.     It  is  a  great  fault  to  boil  any  kind  of 
syrups  or  jellies  too  high,  as  it  makes  them  dark  and  cloudy. 
Never  keep  green  sweetmeats  longer  in,  the  first,  syrup  than 
directed,  as  it  will  spoil  their  colour ;  |md  the  same  precaution 
will  be  necessary  in  the  preserving  oranges  and  lemons.  When 
you  preserve  cherries,  damsons,  of  any  other  sort  of  stoije- 
fruits,  put  over  them  mutton  suet  rendered,  to  keep  oat  the 
air  ;  for  if  any  air  gets  to  them,  it  will  give  them  a  sour  taste, 
and  spoil  the  whole.     Wet  sweetmeats  must  be  kept  in  a  dry 
and  cool  place  ;  for  a  damp  place  will  mould  them,  and  a  hot 
place  will  deprive  them  of  their  virtue.     It  is  a  good  method 
to  dip  writing-paper  into  brandy,  and   lay  it  close  to  the 
sweetmeats.      They  should  be   tied  well  down  with  white 
paper,  and  two  folds  of  cap-paper,  to  keep  out  the  air,  as 
nothing  can  be  a  greater  fault  than  leaving  the  pots  open,  or 
tying  them  down  carelessly. 

Gooseberries  preserved  whole. 

TAKE  the  largest  gooseberries,  and  .pick  off"  the  black  eye, 
but  not  the  stalk  ;  set  them  over  the  fire  in  a  pot  of  water  to 
scald,  but  take  care  they  do  not  boil,  for  that  will  break  and 
spoil  them:  when  tender,  take  them  up  and  put  them  into 
cold  water.  Then  rake  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double-refined 
sugar  to  a  pound  qf  gooseberries,  and  clarify  the  sugar  with 
water,  a  pint  to  a  pound. of  sugar.  When  the  syrup  is  cold, 
put  the  gooseberries  singly  into  the  preserving  pan,  put  the 
syrup  to  them,  and  set  them  on  a  gentle  Ji re.  Let  them  boil, 
but  not  so  fast  as  to  break  them  ;  and  when  they  have  boiled, 
and  the  sugar  has  entered  them,  take  them  off,  cover  them  with 
white  paper,  and  set  them  by  till  the  next  day.  Then  take 
them  out  of  the  syrup,  and  boil  the  syrup  till  it  begins  to  be 
ropy.  Skim  it,  and  put  it  to  them  again.  Then  set  them  on  a 
gentle  fire,  and  let  them  simmer  gently  till  the  syrup  will 


PRESERVING.  299 

rope.  Then  take  them  off",  set  them  by  till  they  are  cold,  and 
cover  them  with  brandy-paper,  Then  boil  some  gooseberries 
in  water,  and  when  the  liquor  is  strong  enough,  strain  it  out. 
Let  it  stand  to  settle,  and  to  every  pint  take  a  pound  of  double- 
refined  sugar,  and  make  a  jelly  of  it.  When  the  gooseberries 
ar«  cold,  put  them  in  glasses,  cover  them  with  the  jelly,  and 
close  them  down  properly. 

Green  Gooseberries,  in  Imitation  of  Hops. 

TAKE  the  largest  green  walnut  gooseberries,  and  cut  them 
at  the  stalk-end  in  four  quarters.  Leave  them  whole  at  the 
blossom,  end,  take  out  all  the  seeds  and  put  five  or  six  one  in 
another.  Take  a  needleful  of  strong  thread,  with  a  large 
knot  at  the  end  ;  run  the  needle  through  the  bunch  of  goose- 
berries, tie  a  knot  to  fasten  them  together,  and  they  will 
resemble  hops.  Put  cold  spring-water  into  the  pan,  with  a 
large  handful  of  vine-leaves  at  the  bottom  j  then  three  or 
four  layers  of  gooseberries,  with  plenty  of  vine-leaves  be- 
tween every  layer,  and  ov*er  the  top  of  the  pan.  Cover  it 
so  that  no  steam  can  get  out,  and  set  them  on  a  slow  fire. 
Then  take  them  off  as  soon  as  they  are  scalding  hot,  and  let 
them  stand  till  cold.  Then  set  them  on  again  till  they  are  of 
a  good  green;  take  them  off,  and  let  them  stand  till  quite  cold. 
Put  them  into  a  sieve  to  drain,  and  make  a  thin  syrup  thus  : 
To  every  pint  of  water  put  in  a  pound  of  common  loaf 
sugar ;  boil,  and  skim  it  well.  When  about  half  cold,  put  in 
the  gooseberries,  and  let  them  stand  till  the  next  day.  Then 
give  them  one  boil  a  day  for  three  days*  Then  make  a  syrup 
thus  :  To  every  pint  of  water  put  in  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  a 
slice  of  ginger,  and  a  lemon  peel  cut  lengthways  exceedingly 
fine.  Boil  rfhd  skim  it  well,  give  the  gooseberries  a  boil  in  it, 
and  when  cold,  put  them  into  glasses  or  pots,  lay  brandy- 
paper  over  them,  and  tie  them  up  close. 

Red  Gooseberries. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  put  it  into  a  preserving  pan, 
with  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve  it,  and  boil  and  skim  it 
well ;  then  put  in  a  quart  of  rough  red  gooseberries,  and  let 
them  boil  a  little.  Set  them  by  till  the  next  day,  then  boil 
them  till  they  Jook;clear,  arid  the  syrup  thick.  Then  put  them 
into  pots  or  glasses,  and  cover^hem  with  brandy-paper. 

Red  Raspberries. . 

GATHER  them  on  a  dry  day  when  just  turning  red,  with 
the  stalks  on,  about  an  inch  long.  Lay  them  singly  on  a  disb, 


300  PRESERVING, 

beat  and  sift  their  weight  of  double-refined  sugar,  and  strew 
it  over  them.  To  every  quart  of  raspberries  take  a  quart  of 
red  currant  jelly-juice,  and  put  to  it  its  weight  of  double- 
refined  sugar.  Boil  and  skim  it  well,  then  put  in  the  rasp, 
berries,  and  give  them  a  scald.  Take  them  off,  and  let  them 
stand  for  two  hours.  Set  them  on  again,  and  make  them  a 
little  hotter ;  proceed  in  this  manner  two  or  three  times  till 
they  look  clear ;  but  do  not  let  them  boil,  as  that  will  make 
the  stalks  come  off.  When  tolerably  cool,  put  them  into  jelly 
glasses,  with  the  stalks  downwards. 

White  Raspberries 

MAY  be  preserved  in  the  same  manner,  only  using  white 
currant  juice  instead  of  red. 

Red  Currants. 

STONE  them,  and  tie  six  or  seven  bunches  together  with  a 
thread  to  a  piece  of  split  deal,  .about  four  inches  long. 
\\cigh  the  currants,  and  put  the  weight  of  double-refined 
sugar  into  the  preserving  pan,  with  a  little  water.  Boil  it  till 
the  sugar  flies;  then  put  the  currants  in,  just  give  them  a  boil 
up,  and  cover  them  till  the  next  day.  Then  take  them  out, 
and  either  dry  them  or  put  them  into  glasses,  with  the  syrup 
boiled  up  with  a  little  of  the  juice  of  red  currants.  Put 
brandy-paper  over  them,  then  other  paper  over  that,  and  tie 
them  down  close. 

White  Currants  preserved  in  Bunches. 

STONE  and  tie  them  in  bunches,  as  above  directed,  put 
them  into  the  preserving  pan,  with  their  v. eight  of  double- 
rehned  sugar  beaten  and  finel>  sifted,  Let  them  stand  all 
night.  1  hen  take  some  pippins,  pare,  core,  and  boil  them, 
and  press  them  down  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  but  do  not 
stir  them.  When  the  water  is  strong  of  the  apple,  add  to  it 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  strain  it  through  a  jelly-bag  till  it 
runs  quite  clear.  To  every  pint  of  liquor  put  a  pound  of 
double-refined  sugar,  and  boil  it  up  to  a  strong  jelly.  Then 
put  it  t,o  the  currants,  and  boil  them  till  they  look  clear. 
Cover  them  in  the  preserving-pan  with  paper  till  they  are 
almost  cold,  and  then  put  a  bunch  of  currants  into  glasses, 
and  fill  them  up  with  jelly.  When  cold,  wet  paper  in  brandy, 
and  lay  over  them;  then  put  over  them  another  paper,  and  tie 
them'  up  close. 


PRESERVING.  30 1 


Currants  preserved  for  Tarts. 

To  every  pound  and  a  quarter  of  picked  currants  take  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  preserving-pan,  with 
as  much  juice  of  currants  as  will  dissolve  it.  As  soon  as  it 
boils,  skim  it,  and  put  in  the  currants,  and  boil  them  till  they 
are  clear.  Put  them  into  a  jar,  lay  brandy-paper  over  them, 
and  tie  them  down  close. 

Green  Codlins. 

GREEN  codlins  will  keep  all  the  year,  if  preserved  in  this 
manner  :  gather  them  when  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  with 
the  stalks  and  a  leaf  or  two  on  them.  Put  a  handful  of  vine- 
leaves  into  a  pan  of  spring  water  ;  then  put  a  layer  of  cod- 
lins, then  of  vine-leaves,  #nd  so  on  till  the  pan  is  full.  Cover 
it  close  that  no  steam  can  get  out,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire. 
As  soon  as  they  are  soft,  take  off  the  skins  with  a  penknife, 
and  then  put  them  in  the  same  water  with  the  vine-leaves, 
which  must  be  quite  cold,  or  it  will  be  apt  to  crack  them. 
Put  in  a  little  alum,  and  set  them  over  a  very  slow  fire  till 
they  are  green,  which  will  be  in  three  or  four  hours.  Then 
take  them  out,  and  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Make  a 
good  syrup,  and  give  them  a  gentle  boil  once  a  day  for  three 
days.  Then  put  them  into  small  jars,  with  brandy-paper  over 
them,  and  tie  them  up  tight. 

Golden  Pippins. 

HAVING  boiled  the  rind  of  an  orange  very  tender,  let  it  lie 
in  water  two  or  three  days.  Take  a  quart  of  golden  pippins, 
pare,  core,  quarter,  and  boil  them  to  a  strong  jelly,  and  run 
it  through  a  jelly-bag.  Then  take  twelve  pippins,  pare  them, 
and  scrape  out  the  cores.  Put  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  into 
a  stewpan  with  near  a  pint  of  water.  When  it  boils,  skim  it, 
and  put  in  the  pippins,  with  the  orange  rind  in  thin  slices. 
Let  them  boil  fast  till  the  sugar  is  very  thick  and  will  almost 
candy.  Then  put  in  a  pint  of  the  pippin  jelly,  and  boil  them 
fast  till  the  jelly  is  clear.  Then  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  le- 
mon, give  it  a  boil,  and  put  them  into  pots  or  glasses  with  the 
orange  peel. 

£ 

Grapes. 

PUT  into  ajar  some  close  bunches  of  grapes,  but  they  must 
not  be  too  ripe ;  it  matters  not  whether  they  are  black  or 
white  grapes.  Put  to  them  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar- 


302  PRESERVING. 

candy,  and  fill  the  jar  with  common  brandy.  Tie  them  up 
close  with  a  bladder,  and  set  them  in  a  dry  place.  Morello 
cherries  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  manner. 

Walnuts  (white). 

PARE  them  till  the  white  appear,  and  nothing  else ;  as  fast 
as  they  are  clone,  throw  them  into  salt  and  water,  and  let  them 
lie  there  till  the  sugar  is  ready.  Take  three  pounds  of  good 
loaf  sugar,  put  it  into  the  preserving-pan,  set  it  over  a  charcoal 
fire,  and  put  as  much  water  as  will  just  wet  the  sugar  :  let  it 
boil,  then  have  ready  ten  or  a  dozen  whites  of  eggs  strained 
and  beat  up  to  a  froth.  Cover  the  sugar  with  the  froth  as  it 
boils,  and  skim  it;  then  boil  it,  and  skim  it  till  it  is  quite  clear, 
and  throw  in  the  walnuts.  Just  give  them  a  boil  till  they  are 
tender,  then  take  them  out,  and  lay  them  in  a  dish  to  cool. 
When  cold,  put  them  into  the  preserving-pot,  and  when  the 
sugar  is  as  warm  as  milk  pour  it  over  them ;  and  when  they  are 
quite  cold,  tie  them  up. 

Walnuts  (black ). 

TAKE  those  of  the  smaller  kind ;  put  them  in  salt  and 
water,  and  change  the  water  every  day  for  nine  days;  thei> 
put  them  on  a  sieve,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  air  till  they 
begin  to  turn  black.  Put  them  into  a  jug,  pour  boiling  water 
over  them,  and  let  them  stand  till  the  next  day.  Then  put 
them  into  a  sieve  to  drain,  stick  a  clove  in  each  end  of  the 
walnut,  put  them  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  let  them 
boil  five  minutes.  Take  them  up,  make  a  thin  syrup,  and 
scald  them  in  it  three  or  four  times  a  day,  till  the  walnuts  are 
black  and  bright.  Then  make  a  thick  syrup  with  a  few  cloves 
and  a  little  ginger  cut  in  slices ;  skim  it  well,  put  in  the  wat- 
nuts,  boil  them  five  or  six  minutes,  and  then  put  them  inco» 
jars.  Lay  brandy-paper  over  them,  and  tie  them  down  close 
with  a  bladder.  They  will  eat  better  the  second  year  of  their 
keeping  than  in  the  first,  as  the  bitterness  goes  off  with  time. 

Walnuts  (green). 

WIPE  them  very  dry,  and  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  twenty- 
four  hours  ;  take  them  out,  and  wipe  them  very  clean  ;  have 
ready  a  skillet  of  boiling  water,  throw  them  in,  let  them  boil  a 
minute,  and  then  take  them  out.  Lay  them  on  a  coarse  cloth, 
and  boil  the  sugar  as  directed  for  the  white  walnuts;  then 
just  give  the  walnuts  a  scald  in  the  sugar,  take  them  up,  and' 
lay  them  to  cool.  Put  them  into  the  preserving-pot,  and  pro- 
ceed as  directed  for  white  walnuts. 


PRESERVING.  303 

Cucumbers* 

TAKE  the  greenest  cucumbers,  and  the  most  free  from 
seeds  ;  some  small  to  preserve  whole,  anil  other  large  to  cut 
into  pieces.  Put  them  into  strong  salt  and  water  in  a  strait- 
mouthed  jar  with  a  cabbage-leaf  to  keep  them  down.  Set 
them  in  a  warm  place  till  they  are  yellow,  then  wash  them 
out,  and  set  them  over  the  fire  in  fresh  water,  with  a  little 
salt,  and  a  fresh  cabbage-leaf  over  them  :  cover  the  pan  very 
close,  but  take  care  they  do  not  boil.  If  they  are  not  of  a 
fine  green,  change  the  water,  as  that  will  help  them.  Then 
cover  them  as  before,  and  make  them  hot ;  when  they  be- 
come of  a  good  green,  take  them  off  the  fire,  and  let  them 
stand  till  cold.  Then  cut  the  large  ones  in  quarters,  take  out 
the  seeds  and  soft  part,  put  them  into  cold  water,  and  let  them 
stand  two  days  ;  but  change  the  water  twice  every  day  to  take 
out  the  salt.  Take  a  pound  of  single-refined  sugar,  and  half 
a  pint  of  water,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  skimmed 
clean,  put  in  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  an  ounce  of  ginger, 
with  the  outside  scraped  off.  When  the  syrup  is  pretty  thick, 
take  it  off  j  and  when  cold,  wipe  the  cucumbers  dry,  and 
put  them  in.  Boil  the  syrup  once  in  two  or  three  days  for 
three  weeks,  and  strengthen  the  syrup,  if  required ;  for  the 
greatest  danger  of  spoiling  them  is  at  first.  When  the  syrup 
is  put  to  the  cucumbers,  be  sure  that  it  is  quite  cold. 

Green  Gage  Plums. 

PUT  into  a  pan  the  finest  plums  just  before  they  are  ripe  : 
put  vine-leaves  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  then  a  layer  of  plums, 
and  thus  plums  and  vine-leaves  alternately  till  the  pan  is  al- 
most full:  then  fill  it  with  water,  set  them  over  a  slow  fire, 
and  when  hot,  and  their  skins  begin  to  break,  take  them  off, 
and  take  the  skins  off  carefully.  Put  them  on  a  sieve  as  they 
are  done,  then  lay  them  in  the  same  water,  with  a  layer  of 
leaves  between,  and  cover  them  very  close,  so  that  no  steam 
can  get  out.  Hang  them  at  a  great  distance  from  the  fire  till 
they  are  green,  which  will  be  five  or  six  hours  at  least.  Then 
take  them  carefully  up,  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain, 
make  a  good  syrup,  and  give  them  a  gentle  boil  in  it  twice 
a  day  for  two  days.  Take  them  out,  and  put  them  into  a  fine 
clear  syrup ;  put  brandy-paper  over  them,  and  tie  them  down 
close. 

Damsons. 

CUT  the  damsons  into  pieces,  and  put  them  in  a  skillet  over 
the  fire,  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  then.  When  they 


304  PRESERVING. 

are  boiled,  and  the  liquor  pretty  strong,  strain  it  out,  and  add 
to  every  pound  of  the  damsons,  wiped  clean,  a  pound  of  single- 
refined  sugar.  Put  one  third  of  the  sugar  in  the  liquor,  set 
it  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  simmers,  put  in  the  damsons.  Let 
them  have  one  good  boil,  and  take  them  off  for  half  an  hour 
covered  up  close.  Then  set  them  on  again,  and  let  them  sim- 
mer over  the  fire  after  turning  them.  Then  take  them  out, 
put  them  in  a  bason,  strew  all  the  sugar  that  was  left  on  them, 
and  pour  the  hot  liquor  over  them.  Cover  them  up,  let  them 
stand  till  the  next  day,  and  then  boil, them  up  again  till  they 
are  enough.  Then  take  them  up,  and  put  them  in  pots ; 
boil  the  liquor  till  it  jellies,  and  pour  it  on  them  when  almost 
cold.  Put  paper  over  them,  and  tie  them  up  close. 

Mordlo  Cherries. 

HAVING  gathered  cherries  when  they  are  full  ripe,  take  off 
the  stalks,  and  prick  them  with  ^a  pin.  To  everv  pound  of 
cherries  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar.'  Beat  part  of 
the  sugar,  strew  it  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  all  night. 
Dissolve  the  rest  of  the  sugar  in.  half  a  pint  of  the  iuice  of 
currants,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  put  in  the  cherries  with 
the  sugar,  and  give  them  a  gentle  scald.  Then  take  them 
carefully  out,  boil  the  syrup  till  it  is  thick,  and  pour  it  upon 
the  cherries. 

Lemons. 

FIRST  pare  the  lemons  very  thin,  then  make  a  round  hole 
on  the  top  of  the  size  of  a  shilling,  and  take  out  all  the  pulps 
and  skins;  rub  them  with  salt,  and  put  them  into  spring 
water,  which  will  prevent  them  from  turning  black  :  let  them 
lie  in  it  five  or  six  days,  and  then  boil  them  in  fresh  salt  and 
water  fifteen  minutes.  Have  ready  made  a  thin  syrup  of  a 
quart  of  water,  and  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Boil  them  in  it  for 

'  five  minutes  once  a  day,  for  four  or  five  days,  and  then  put 
them  in  a  large  jar.  Let  them  stand  for  six  or  eight  weeks, 
and  it  will  make  them  look  clear  and  plump.  Then  take  them 
out  of  that  syrup,  or  they  will  mould  ;  make  a  syrup  of  fine 
sugar,  put  as  much  water  to  it  as  will  dissolve  it,  boil  and  skim 
it,  then  put  in  the  lemons,  and  boil  them  gently  till  they  are 
clear.  Put  them  into  a  jar  with  brandy-paper  over  them,  and 

.  and  tie  them  down  close. 

Oranges. 

CUT  a  hole  out  of  a  Seville  orange  at  the  stalk-end  as  large 
as  a  sixpence,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp  quite  clean  ;  tie  them 


PRESERVING.  305 

separately  in  muslin,  and  lay  them  two  days  in  spring  water. 
Change  the  water  twice  every  day,  and  then  boil  them  in  the 
muslin  on  a  slow  fire  till  quite  tender.  As  the  water  wastes, 
put  more  hot  water  into  the  pan,  and  keep  them  covered. 
Weigh  the  oranges  before  they  are  scooped,  and  to  every 
pound  put  two  pounds  of  double-refined  sugar,  and  a  pint  of 
water :  boil  the  sugar  and  water,  with  the  juice  of  the  oranges, 
to  a  syrup;  skim  it  well,  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  put  in  the 
oranges,  and  let  them  boil  half  an  hour.  If  not  quite  clear, 
boil  them  once  a  day  for  two  or.three  days.  Then  pare  and 
core  some  green  pippins,  and  boil  them  till  the  water  is 
strong  of  the  apple  ;  but  do  not  stir  them,  and  only  put  them 
down  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Strain  the  water  through  a 
jelly-bag  till  it  is  quite  clear,  and  then,  to  every  pint  of  water, 
put  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
strained  fine.  Boil  it  up  to  a  strong  jelly,  drain  the  oranges 
out  of  the  syrup,  and  put  them  into  glass  jars,  or  pots  of  the 
size  of  an  orange,  with  the, -holes  upwards.  ^Po'ur  the  jelly 
over  them,  cover  them  with  paper  dipped  in  brandy,  and  t;e 
them  close  down  with  a  bladder.  Lemons  may  be  done  in 
this  manner,  if  preferred  to  the  method  before  directed. 

Strawberries. 

ON  a  dry  day,  gather  the  finest  scarlet  strawberries,  with 
their  stalks  on,  before  they  are  too  ripe  ;  lay  them  separately 
on  a  china  dish,  beat  and  sift  twice  their  weight  of  double- 
refined  sugar,  and  strew  it  over  them.  Then  take  a  few  ripe 
scarlet  strawberries,  crush  them,  and  put  them  into  a  jar,  with 
their  weight  of  double-refined  sugar  beat  small.  Cover  them 
close,  and  let  them  stand  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  till  they 
are  soft,  and  the  syrup  come  out  of  them.  Then  strain  them 
through  a  muslin  rag  into  a  tossing-pan,  boil  and  skim  it  well, 
and  when  cold,  put  in  the  whole  strawberries,  and  set  them 
over  the  fire  till  they  are  milk  warm.  Then  take  them  off, 
and  let  them  stand  till  quite  cold.  Then  set  them  on  again, 
and  make  them  a  little  hotter,  and  do  so  several  times  till 
they  look  clear  ;  but  do  not  let  them  boil,  as  that  will  bring 
off  their  stalks.  When  the  strawberries  are  cold,  put  them 
into  jelly -glasses,  with  the  stalks  downwards,  and  fill  up  the' 
glasses  with  the  syrup.  Put  over  them  paper  dipped  in  bran- 
dy,  and  tie  them  down  close. 

Pine-apples. 

TAKE  pine-apples  before  they  are  ripe,  and  lay  them  five 
days  in  strong  salt  and  water.  .  Then  put  into  the  bottom  oi'u 
large  saucepan  a  handful  of  vine-leaves,  and  put  in  the  pine- 

x 


PRESERVING. 

apples.  Fill  the  pan  with  vine-leaves,  and  then  pour  on  the 
salt  and  water  they  were  laid  in.  Cover  it  up  very  close,  and 
set  them  over  a  slow  fire.  Let  them  stand  till  of  a  fine  light 
green.  Have  ready  a  thin  syrup,  made  of  a  quart  of  water 
and  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar.  When  it  is  almost  cold, 
put  it  into  a  deep  jar,  and  put  in  the  pine-apples  with  their 
tops  on.  Let  them  stand  a  week,  and  take  care  that  they  are 
well  covered  with  the  syrup.  It  is  a  great  fault  to  put  any  kind 
of  fruit  that  is  to  be  preserved  whole  into  thick  syrup  at  first, 
as  that  makes  it  shrink,  draws  out  the  juice,  and  spoils  it. 
When  they  have  stood  a  week,  boil  the  syrup  again,  and  pour 
it  carefully  into  the  jar,  for  fear  of  breaking  the  tops  of  the 
pine-apples.  Let  it  stand  eight  or  ten  weeks,  and  during  that 
time  give  the  syrup  two  or  three  boilings  to  keep  it  from 
moulding.  Let  the  syrup  stand  till  it  is  near  cold  before  it  is 
put  on ;  and  when  the  pine-apples  look  quite  full  and  green, 
take  them  out  of  the  syrup,  and  make  a  thick  syrup  of  three 
pounds  of  double-refined  sugar,  with  as  much  water  as  will 
dissolve  it :  boil  and  skim  it  well,  put  a  few  slices  of  white 
ginger  into  it,  and  when  it  is  nearly  cold,  pour  it  upon  the 
pine-apples.  Tie  them  down  close  with  a  bladder,  and  they 
will  keep  many  years  without  shrinking. 

Barberries  for  Tarts. 

HAVING  picked  the  female  branches  clean  from  the  stalks, 
take  their  weight  in  loaf  sugar,  and  put  them  in  a  jar.  Set 
them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  till  the  sugar  is  melted  and 
the  barberries  quite  soft.  Then  next  dayput  them  into  a  pre- 
serving-pan, and  boil  them  fifteen  minutes.  Then  put  them 
into  jars,  and  tie  them  up  close. 

Barberries  preserved  in  Bunches. 

HAVING  procured  the  finest  female  barberries,  pick  out  all 
the  largest  bunches,  and  then  pick  the  rest  from  the  stalks ; 
put  them  in  as  much  water  as  will  make  a  syrup  for  the 
bunches;  boil  them  till  they  are  soft,  then  strain  them  through  a 
sieve,  and  to  every  pint  of  the  juice  put  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  loaf  sugar.  Boil  and  skim  it  well,  and  to  every  pint  of 
syrup  put  half  a  pound  of  barberries  in  bunches.  Boil  them 
till  they  look  very  fine  and  clear,  then  put  them  carefully 
into  pots  or  glasses,  and  tie  them  down  close  with  brandy- 
paper. 

Quinces. 

QUINCES  may  be  preserved  either  whole,  or  in  quarters,  in 
this  manner :  Having  pared  them  very  thin  and  round  (or  cut 


DRYJNG  AND  CANDYING.  307 

«U| 

into  quarters),  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  fill  it  with  hard 
water,  and  lay  the  parings  over  the  quinces  to  keep  them 
down.  Cover  the  saucepan  close,  that  no  steam  may  get*  out, 
and  set  them  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  soft,  and  of  a  fine 
pink  colour.  Then  let  them  stand  till  they  are  cold.  Make 
a  good  syrup  of  double-refined  sugar,  and  boil  and  skim  it 
well.  Then  put  in  the  quinces,  let  them"  boil  ten  minutes,  take 
them  off,  and  let  them  stand  two  or  three  hours.  Boil  them 
till  the  syrup  looks  thick,  and  the  quinces  clear.  Put  them 
into  deep  jars,  and  with  brandy-paper  and  leather  over  them, 
tie  them  up  close. 

Peaches. 

LET  the  peaches  be  the  largest,  but  not  too  ripe  :  rub  off 
the  lint  with  a  cloth,  and  then  run  them  down  the  seam  with 
a  pin,  skin  deep,  and  cover  them  with  French  brandy  :  tie  a 
bladder  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  a  week.  Take  them 
out,  and  make  a  strong  syrup  for  them.  Boil  and  skiui  it 
well,  then  put  in  the  peaches,  and  boil  them  till  they  look 
clear:  take  them  out,  and  put  them  into  pots  or  glasses  ;  mix 
the  syrup  with  the  brandy,  and  when  it  is  cold,  pour  it  on  the 
peaches.  Tie  them  close  down  with  a  bladder,  as  they  will 
turn  black  should  the  air  get  to  them. 

Apricots. 

HAVING  pared  the  apricots,  thrust  out  the  stones  with  a 
skewer,  and  to  every  pound  of  apricots  put  a  pound-  of  loaf 
sugar;  strew  part  of  it  over  them,  and  let  it  stand  till  the  next 
day ;  then  give  them  a  gentle  boil  three  or  four  different 
times,  and  let  them  cool  between  each  time :  take  them  out 
of  the  syrup  one  by  one,  the  last  time  they  are  boiled.  Skim 
the  syrup  well,  then  pour  it  over  the  apricots,  and  tie  them 
down  close  with  brandy-paper  and  a  bladder. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 


DRYING  AND  CANDYING. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

iivERY  kind  of  fruit,  before  you  attempt  to  candy  it,  musfc 
be  first  preserved,  and  dried  in  a  stqve  or  before  the  fire,  that 
none  of  the  syrup  may  remain  in  it.  Then,  having  boiled 


x  y 


308  DRYING  AND  CANDYING. 

your  sugar  to  the  candy  height,  dip  in  your  fruit,  and  lay 
them  in  dishes  in  your  stove  to  dry.  Then  put  them  in  boxes 
for  use,  and  take  care  to  keep  them  in  places  neither  damp 
nor  hot. 

Candied  Cassia. 

TAKE  as  much  of  the  powder  of  brown  cassia  as  will  lie 
upon  two  shillings,  with  as  much  musk  and  ambergris  as  is 
thought  proper:  the  cassia  and  perfume  must  be  powdered 
together.  Then  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  boil 
it  to  a  candy  height,  put  in  the  powder  and  mix  it  well  toge- 
ther. Pour  it  into  saucers,  which  must  be  buttered  very  thin, 
and  when  it  is  cold  it  will  slip  out. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

CUT  in  twothe  clearest  Seville  oranges;  take  out  all  the  pulp 
and  juice  into  a  bason,  and  pick  all  the  skins  and  seeds  out 
of  it ;  boil  the  rinds  in  hard  water  till  they  are  tender,  and 
change  the  water  two  or  three  times  while  they  are  boiling. 
Then  pound  them  in  a  marble  mortar,  and  add  to  them  the  juice 
and  pulp;  put  them  into  the  preserving-pan  with  double  their 
weight  of  loaf  sugar,  and  set  them  over  a  slow  fire.  Boil  it 
rather  more  than  half  an  hour,  put  into  pots,  cover  with 
brandy-paper,  and  tie  close  down. 

Apricot  Marmalade. 

ALL  those  apricots  that  are  not  good  enough  for  preserves, 
or  are  too  ripe  for  keeping,  will  answer  this  purpose ;  boil 
them  in  syrup  till  they  will  mash,  and  then  beat  them  in  a 
marble  mortar  to  a  paste :  take  half  their  weight  of  loaf 
sugar,  and  put  just  water  enough  to  it  to  dissolve  it ;  boil  and 
skim  it  till  it  looks  clear,  and  the  syrup  thick  like  a  fine  jelly. 
Then  put  it  into  sweetmeat  glasses,  and  tie  it  up  close. 

Transparent  Marmalade. 

CUT  very  pale  Seville  oranges  into  quarters,  take  out  the 
pulp,  put  it  into  a  bason,  and  pick  out  the  skins  and  seeds. 
Put  the  peels  into  a  little  salt  and  water,  and  let  them  stand 
all  night.  Then  boil  them  in  a  good  quantity  of  spring  water 
till  they  are  tender,  cut  them  in  very  thin  slices,  and  put  them 
to  the  pulp.  To  every  pound  of  marmalade  put  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  double-refined  sugar  finely  beaten,  and  boil  them 
together  gently  for  twenty  minutes  ;  but  if  it  is  not  clear  and 
transparent  in  that  time,  boil  it  five  or  six  minutes  longer, 
keep  fctirringik  gently  all  the  time,  and  take  care  not  to  break 


DRYING  AND  CANDYING.  309 

the  slices.  When  cold,  put  it  into  jelly  or  sweetmeat  glasses, 
and  tie  them  down  tight  with  brandy-paper,  and  a  bladder 
over  them. 

Quince  Marmalade. 

QUINCES  for  this  purpose  must  be  full  ripe;  pare  them  and 
cut  them  into  quarters  ;  then  take  out  the  core,  and  put  them 
into  a  saucepan.  Cover  them  with  the  parings,  fill  the  sauce- 
pan nearly  full  of  spring  water,  cover  it  close,  and  let 
them  stew  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  soft,  and  of  a  pink 
colour.  Then  pick  out  all  the  quinces  from  the  parings,  and 
beat  them  to  a  pulp  in  a  marble  mortar.  Take  their  weight 
of  fine  loaf  sugar,  put  as  much  water  to  it  as  will  dissolve  it, 
and  boil  and  skim  it  well.  Then  put  in  the  quinces,  and  boil 
them  gently  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Stir  all  the  time,  or 
it  will  stick  to  the  pan  and  burn.  When  cold,  put  it  into  fiat 
pots,  and  tie  it  down  close. 

Damson  Cheese. 

HAVING  picked  the  damsons  free  from  stalks,  put  them  into 
ajar,  tie  white  paper  over  them,  and  bake  in  an  oven  till 
quite  soft :  rub  through  a  cullender  whilst  hot,  and  to  the 
pulp  and  juice  add  sugar  to  the  palate:  boil  over  a  gentle 
fire  till  nearly  quite  stiff,  stir  all  the  time  that  it  mt  ^  not  burn, 
and  turn  into  moulds,  or  cups  :  tie  brandy-paper  over  them, 
and  keep  in  a  dry  but  not  hot  place. 

Plum  Cheese, 
Is  made  like  damson  cheese. 

Bullace  Cheese, 
Is  made  like  damson  cheese. 

Apple  Cheese. 

PARE,  quarter,  and  core  the  apples ;  put  them  into  a  jar, 
tie  them  over  with  white  paper,  and  bake  in  an  oven  till  quite 
soft :  pulp  them  through  a  sieve ;  put  the  pulp  into  a  stewpan 
with  sifted  lump  sugar  to  the  palate,  and  a  little  thin  rind  of 
lemon,  boil  till  quite  stiff,  and  put  into  moulds. 

Raspberry  Paste. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  raspberries,  mash  them,  strain  one  half,  and 
put  the  juice  to  the  other  half;  boil  them  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  put  to  them  a  pint  of  red  currant  juice^nd  let  them 


310  DRYING  AND  CANDYING. 

boil  all  together  till  the  raspberries  are  enough.  Then  put 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  double-refined  sugar  into  a  clean  pan, 
with  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve  it,  aud  boil  it  to  a  sugar 
again.  Then  put  in  the  raspberries  and  juice,  give  them  a 
scald,  and  pour  them  into  glasses  or  plates.  Then  put  them 
into  a  stove  to  dry,  and  turn  them  when  necessary. 

Currant  Paste. 

CURRANT  paste  may  be  either  red  or  white,  according  to 
the  colour  of  the  currants  used.  Strip  the  currants,  put  a 
little  juice  to  them  to  keep  them  from  burning,  boil  them 
well,  and  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve.  Then  boil  it  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  to  a  pint  of  juice  put  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  double-refined  sugar  pounded  and  sifted.  Shake  in 
the  sugar,  and  when  it  is  melted,  pour  it  on  plates.  Dry  it  in 
the  same  manner  as  the  above  paste,  and  turn  it  into  any  form 
most  approved. 

Gooseberry  Paste. 

WHEN  red  gooseberries  are  full  grown  and  turned,  but  not 
ripe,  cut  them  in  halves,  pick  out  all  the  seeds;  then  have 
ready  a  pint  of  currant  juice,  and  boil  the  gooseberries  in  it 
till  they  are  tender.  Put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double-re- 
fined suga^into  the  pan,  with  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve 
it,  and  boil  it  to  a  sugar  again  :  then  put  all  together,  and 
make  it  scalding  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Pour  it  into 
palates  or  glasses,  and  dry  it  as  above  directed. 

Burnt  Almonds. 

PUT  two  pounds  of  almonds,  the  same  quantity  of  loaf 
sugar,  and  a  pint  of  water,  into  a  stewpan.  Set  them  over  a 
clear  coal  fire,  and  let  them  boil  till  the  almonds  crack.  Then 
take  them  off,  and  stir  them  about  till  they  are  quite  dry. 
Put  them  in  a  wire  sieve,  and  sift  all  the  sugar  from  them. 
Put  all  in  the  pan  again  with  a  little  water,  and  give  it  a  boil : 
then  put  four  spoonsful  of  scraped  cochineal  to  the  sugar  to 
colour  it;  put  the  almonds  into  the  pan,  and  keep  stirring 
them  over  the  fire  till  they  are  quite  dry.  Then  put  them 
nto  a  glass,  and  they  will  keep  a  year. 

Orange  Chips. 

PARE  some  of  the  best  Seville  oranges  a-slant,  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  broad,  and  if  kept  whole  they  will  have  a 
prettier  effect:  put  them  into  salt  and  spring  water  for  a  day 
or  two ;  then  boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  spring  water 


DRYING  AND  CANDYING.  311 

till  they  are  tender,  and  drain  them  on  a  sieve.  Have  ready 
a  thin  syrup,  made  of  a  quart  of  water,  and  a  pound  of  fine 
sugar.  Boil  them,  a  few  at  a  time,  to  keep  them  from  break- 
ing, till  they  look  clear.  Then  put  them  into  a  syrup  made 
of  fine  loaf  sugar,  with  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve  it,  and 
boil  them  to  a  candy  height.  When  taken  up,  lay  them  on  at 
sieve,  and  grate  double-refined  sugar  over  them.  Then  put 
them  in  a  stove,  or  before  the  fire  to  dry. 

Green  Gage  Plums  dried. 

HAVING  made  a  thin  syrup  of  half  a  pound  of  single- 
refined  sugar,  and  skimmed  it  well,  slit  a  pound  of  plums 
down  the  seam,  and  put  them  in  the  syrup.  Keep  them  scald- 
ing hot  till  they  are  tender,  and  take  care  they  are  well 
covered  with  syrup,  or  they  Avill  lose  their  colour.  Let  them 
stand  all  night,  and  then  make  a  rich  syrup.  To  a  pound  of 
double-refined  sugar  put  two  spoonsful  of  water,  skim  it  well, 
and  boil  it  almost  to  a  candy.  When  cold,  drain  the  plums 
out  of  the  first  syrup,  and  put  them  into  the  thick  syrup  ;  but 
be  sure  to  let  the  syrup  cover  them.  Set  them  on  the  fire  to 
scald  till  they  look  clear,  and  then  put  them  in  a  china  bowl. 
When  they  have  stood  a  week,  take  them  out,  and  Jay  them  on 
china  dishes.  Then  put  them  in  a  stove,  and  turn  them  once 
a  day  till  they  are  dry. 

Cherries  dried. 

STONE  any  quantity  of  morello  cherries,  and  to  every  pound 
of  cherries  put  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  fine  sugar:  beat  it 
and  sift  it  over  the  cherries,  and  let  them  stand  all  night : 
take  them  out  of  the  sugar,  and  to  every  pound  of  sugar  put 
two  spoonsful  of  water ;  boil  and  skim  it  well,  and  then  put  in 
the  cherries.  Let  the  sugar  boil  over  them,  the  next  morning 
strain  them,  and  to  every  pound  of  the  syrup  put  half  a  pound 
more  sugar.  Let  it  Doil  a  little  thicker,  then  put  in  the 
cherries,  and  let  them  boil  gently.  The  next  day  strain  them, 
put  them  into  a  stove  to  dry,  and  mind  every  day  to  turn 
them. 

Damsons  dried. 

DAMSONS  for  this  purpose  must  be  gathered  when  they  are 
full  ripe.  Spread  them  on  a  coarse  cloth,  and  set  them  in  a 
very  cool  oven.  Let  them  stand  a  day  or  two  ;  and  if  they 
are  not  then  properly  dried,  put  them  in  for  a  day  or  two 
longer.  Take  them  out,  lay  them  in  a  dry  place,  and  even  in 
.the  winter  they  will  eat  like  fresh  plums. 


312  DRYING  AND  CANDYING. 


Apricots  dried. 

PARE  and  stone  a  pound  of  apricots,  and  put  them  into  a 
tossing-pan ;  pound  and  sift  half  a  pound  of  double-refined 
sugar,  strew  a  little  amongst  them,  and  lay  the  rest  over  them. 
Let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  turn  them  three  or  four 
times  in  the  syrup,  and  then  boil  them  pretty  quick  till  they 
look  clear.  When  cold,  take  them  out  and  lay  them  on 
glasses.  Then  put  them  into  a  stove,  and  turn  them  the  first 
day  every  half  hour,  the  second  day  every  hour,  and  so  on  till 
they  are  dry. 

Peaches  dried. 

GET  the  largest  Newington  peaches,  and  pare  and  stone 
them  :  put  them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  let  them 
boil  till  tender,  and  then  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Weigh 
them,  and  with  their  weight  in  sugar  cover  them  in  the  pan 
they  were  boiled  in.  Let  them  lie  two  or  three  hours,  then 
boil  them  till  they  are  clear,  and  the  syrup  pretty  thick. 
Cover  them  close,  and  let  them  stand  all  night ;  scald  them 
well,  and  then  take  them  off  to  cool.  Then  set  them  on  again 
till  the  peaches  are  thoroughly  hot,  and  do  this  for  three  days. 
Then  lay  them,  on  plates,  and  turn  them  every  day  till  they 
are  dry. 

Ginger  candied. 

TAKE  an  ounce  of  race  ginger  grated  fine,  a  pound  of  loaf 
sugar  beat  fine,  and  put  into  a  tossing-pan  with  as  much  water 
as  will  dissolve  it :  stir  them  well  together  over  a  very  slow 
fire  till  the  sugar  begins  to  boil.  Then  stir  in  another  pound 
of  sug.ir  beat  fine,  and  keep  stirring  till  it  grows  thick.  Then 
take  it  off  the  fire,  and  drop  it  in  cakes  upon  earthen  dishes. 
Set  them  in  a  warm  place  to  dry,  and  they  will  be  hard  and 
brittle,  and  look  white. 

Lemon  and  Orange  Peels  candied. 

TAKE  either  lemons  or  oranges,  cut  them  long  ways,  take 
out  the  pulp,  and  put  all  the  rinds  into  a  pretty  strong-  salt  and 
hard  water  for  six  days:  then  boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of 
spring  water  till  they  are  tender  ;  take  them  out,  and  lay  them 
on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain  :  then  make  a  thin  syrup  of  fine  loaf 
sugar,  a  pound  to  a  quart  of  water ;  put  in  the  peels,  and  boil 
them  over  a  slow  fire  till  the  syrup  and  candy  may  be  perceived 
about  the  pan  and  peels.  Then  take  them  out,  and  grate  fine 
sugar  all  over  them.  Lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and. 


ORNAMENTS.  313 

set  them  in  a  stove,  or  before  the  fire,  to  dry.  Remember 
when  either  lemons  or  oranges  are  boiled,  not  to  cover  the 
saucepan. 

Angelica  candied. 

CUT  the  angelica  in  lengths  when  young,  cover  it  close, 
and  boil  it  till  it  is  tender;  then  peel  it,  put  it  in  again,  and 
let  it  simmer,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  green  :  take  it  up,  and  dry 
it  with  a  cloth,  and  to  every  pound  of  stalks  put  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Put  the  stalks  into  an  earthen  pan,  beat  the  sugar, 
and  strew  it  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  two  days.  Then 
boil  it  till  it  is  clear  and  green,  and  put  it  in  a  cullender  to 
drain.  Beat  another  pound  of  sugar  to  powder,  and  strew 
it  on  the  angelica.  Lay  it  on  plates  to  dry,  and  set  them  in 
the  oven  after  the  pies  are  drawn. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

ELEGANT  ORNAMENTS  FOR  A  GRAND 
ENTER  TAINMENT. 

Floating  Island. 

1  AKE  a  soup-dish,  of  a  size  proportionate  to  what  is  intended 
to  be  made ;  but  a  deep  glass,  set  on  a  china  dish,  will  an- 
swer the  purpose  better.  Take  a  quart  of  the  thickest  cream, 
and  make  it  pretty  sweet  with  fine  sugar.  Pour  in  a  gill  of 
sack,  grate  in  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  mill  the  cream 
till  it  is  of  a  thick  froth.  Then  carefully  pour  the  thin  from 
the  froth  into  a  dish.  Cut  a  French  roll,  or  as  many  as  are 
wanted,  as  thin  as  possible,  and  put  a  layer  of  it  as  light  as 
possible  on  the  cream,  then  a  layer  of  currant  jelly,  then  a 
very  thin  layer  of  roll,  then  hartshorn  jelly,  then  French  roll, 
and  over  that  whip  the  froth  saved  of  the  cream,  well  milled 
up,  and  lay  it  on  the  top  as  high  as  possible.  The  rim  of  the 
dish  may  be  ornamented  with  figures,  fruit,  or  sweetmeats. 

Chinese  Temple  or  Obelisk. 

TAKE  an  ounce  of  fine  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and 
four  ounces  of  fine  flour  ;  boil  the  sugar  and  butter  in  a  little 
water,  and  when  cold,  beat  an  egg,  and  put  it  to  the  water, 


3  1  4  ORNAMENTS. 


r,  and  butter  :  mix  it  with  the  flour,  and  make  into  a  very 
stiff  paste.  Then  roll  it  as  thin  as  possible,  have  a  set  of  tins 
the  form  of  a  temple,  and  put  the  paste  upon  them.  Cut  it  in 
the  form  intended  upon  the  separate  parts  of  the  tins,  keeping 
them  separate  till  baked  ;  but  take  care  to  have  the  paste 
exactly  the  size  of  the  tins.  When  all  the  parts  are  cut,  bake 
them  in  a  slow  oven,  and  Avhen  cold,  take  them  out  of  the 
tins,  and  join  the  parts  with  strong  isinglass  and  water  with  a 
camel's  hair  brush.  Set  them  one  upon  the  other,  as  the 
forms  of  the  tin  moulds  will  direct.  If  cut  neatly,  and  the 
paste  is  rolled  very  thin,  it  will  be  a  beautiful  corner  for  a  large 
table.  Take  care  to  make  the  pillars  stronger  than  the  top, 
that  they  may  not  be  crushed  by  their  weight. 

Desert  Island. 

FORM  a  lump  of  paste  into  a  rock  three  inches  broad,  at 
the  top.  Then  colour  it,  and  set  it  in  the  middle  of  a  deep 
china  dish.  Set  a  cast  figure  on  it  with  a  crown  on  its  head, 
and  a  knot  of  rock  candy  at  its  feet.  Then  make  a  roll  of 
paste  an  inch  thick,  and  stick  it  on  the  inner  edge  of  the  dish, 
two  parts  round.  Cut  eight  pieces  of  eringo  roots,  about 
three  inches  long,  and  fix  them  upright  to  the  roll  of  paste 
on  the  edge.  Make  gravel  walks  of  shot  comfits  round  the 
dish,  and  set  small  figures  in  them.  Roll  out  some  paste,  and 
cut  it  open  like  Chitiese  rails.  Bake  it,  and  fix  it  on  either 
side  of  the  gravel  walks  with  gum,  and  form  an  entrance  where 
the  Chinese  raHs  are,  with  two  pieces  of  eringo  rook  for 
pillars. 

Moonshine. 

HAVE  a  piece  of  tin  in  the  shape  of  a  half-moon,  as  deep 
as  a  half  pint  bason,  and  one  in  the  shape  of  a  large  star,  and 
two  or  three  lesser  ones  :  boil  two  calf's  feet  in  a  gallon  of 
water  till  it  comes  to  a  quart,  then  strain  it  off,  and  when 
cold,  skim  off  the  fat.  Take  half  the  jelly,  and  sweeten  it  with 
sugar  to  the  palate.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  stir  all 
together  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  boils,  and  then  run  it  through 
a  flannel  bag  till  clear.  Put  it  in  a  clean  saucepan,  and  take 
an  ounce  or  sweet  almonds  blanched,  and  beat  very  fine  in  a 
marble  mortar,  with  two  spoonsful  of  rose-water,  and  two  of 
orange-flower  water.  Then  strain  it  through  a  coarse  cloth, 
mix  it  with  the  jelly,  stir  in  four  spoonsful  of  thick  cream,  and 
stir  it  all  together  till  it  boils.  Then  have  ready  the  dish  in- 
tended for  it,  lay  the  tin  in  the  shape  of  a  half  moon  in  the 
middle,  and  the  stars  round  it.  Lay  little  weights  on  the  tins 
to  keep  them  in  their  places  ;  then  pour  in  the  above  blanc 


ORNAMENTS.  3 1  5 

mange  into  the  dish  :  and  when  'it  is  quite  cold,  take  out  the 
tins.  Fill  up  the  vacancies  with  clear  calf's  feet  jelly.  Or, 
colour  the  blanc  mange  with  cochineal  and  chocolate,  to  make 
it  look  like  the  sky,  and  the  moon  and  stars  will  then  shine  the 
brighter.  Put  round  it  rock-candy  sweetmeats  for  a  garnish. 

A  Dish  of  Snow. 

-  PUT  twelve  large  apples  into  cold  water,  set  them  over  a 
slow  fire,  and  when  they  are  soft  pour  them  upon  a  hair  sieve, 
Take  off  the  skins,  and  put  the  pulp  into  a  bason.  Then 
beat  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  to  a  very  strong  froth,  beat 
and  sift  half  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar,  and  strew  it 
into  the  eggs.  Then  beat  the  pulp  of  the  apples  to  a  strong 
froth,  and  beat  them  all  together  till  they  are  like  a  stiff  snow, 
lay  it  upon  a  china  dish,  and  heap  it  up  as  high  as  possible. 
Set  round  it  green  knots  of  paste  in  imitation  of  Chinese  rails, 
and  stick  a  sprig  of  myrtle  in  the  middle  of  the  dish. 

Artificial  Fruit. 

AT  a  proper  time  of  the  year  take  care  to  save  the  stalks  of 
the  fruit  with  the  stones  to  them.  Then  get  some  tins  neatly 
made  in  the  shape  of  the  fruit  intended  to  be  made,  leaving  a 
hole  at  the  top  to  put  in  the  stone  and  stalk.  They  must  be 
so  contrived  as  to  open  in  the  middle,  to  take  out  the  fruit, 
and  there  must  also  be  made  a  frame  of  wood  to  fix  them  in. 
Great  care  must  be  taken  to  make  the  tins  very  smooth  in 
the  inside,  otherwise  their  roughness  will  mark  the  fruit;  and 
that  they  are  made  exactly  the  shape  of  the  fruit  they  are  in- 
tended to  represent.  A  defect  in  either  of  these  points  will 
not  only  give  deformity  to  the  artificial  fruit,  but  likewise  rob 
the  artist  of  that  honour  he  might  otherwise  acquire.  Being 
thus  prepared  with  tins,  take  two  cow-heels  and  a  calf's  foot ; 
boil  them  in  a  gallon  of  soft  water  till  they  are  all  boiled  to 
rags,  and  when  reduced  to  a  full  quart  of  jelly,  strain  it 
through  a  sieve.  Then  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  sweeten  it,  put 
in  lemon  peel  perfumed,  and  colour  it  like  the  fruit  intended  to 
imitate.  Stir  all  together,  give  it  a  boil,  and  fill  the  tins.  Then 
put  in  the  stones  and  the  stalks  just  as  the  fruit  grows  ;  and 
when  the  jelly  is  quite  cold,  open  the  tins,  and  put  on  the 
bloom,  which  may  be  done  by  carefully  dusting  on  powder- 
blue.  An  ingenious  person  may  make  great  improvement  on 
these  artificial  fruits  ;  but  it  requires  great  nicety  and  long 
practice  to  perfect  them  in  it. 

The  hedge-hog,  the  hen  and  chickens  in  jelly,  the  Solo- 
mon's temple,  and  the  eggs  and  bacon,  &c.  in  flummery,  al- 
ready given,  may,  with  propriety,  be  classed  among  the  ele- 
gant ornaments  for  a  grand  entertainment. 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 


Meat. 

1  HE  cook  must  take  care  that  the  butcher  divides  the  joints 
of  the  bones  of  all  carcase-joints  of  mutton,  lamb,  veal,  and 
pork,  which  may  then  be  easily  and  handsomely  separated ; 
but  the  art  of  carving  neatly  depends  less  upon  strength  than 
skill.  The  fleshy  joints  should  be  helped  in  thin  slices,  and 
neatly  and  smoothly  cut. 

Poultry. 

IN  carving  turkey,  goose,  duck,  or  wild  fowl,  there  will  be 
more  prime  pieces,  if  slices  are  taken  from  the  breast,  instead 
of  making  wings. 

Fish. 

IN  helping  fish,  make  use  of  a  fish-knife,  which  is  less  liable 
to  break  the  flakes,  and  contributes  to  the*  beauty  of  its  ap- 
pearance. 

Beef — Sirloin. 

CUT  ofY  the  out- 
side slice  quite 
down  to  the  bone, 
in  the  direction-c  d, 
and  cut  slices  of  a 
moderate  thickness 
smoothly,  and  pa- 
rallel with  the  first 
slice :  or,  cut  thro' 
the  middle,  quite 

down  to  the  bone,  

in  the  direction  of  a  b  ;  in  either  case,  helping  to  a  little  fat. 
By  some  the  inside  is  preferred,  which  must  be  cut  across  the 
inside  of  the  bones. 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  CARVING, 


317 


Beef-—  Edgebone. 

WITH  a  properbeef- 
knife,  cut  off  the  out- 
side slice  beginning  at 
a  and  ending  at  b.  The 
soft  fat  which  lies  on 
the  back  of  the  bone 
below  d,  very  much 
resembles  marrow;  the 
firm  fat  must  be  cut  in 
thin  horizontal  slices, 
at  the  edge  of  the  meat  c.  The  upper  part  is  most  full  of 
gravy,  enriched  with  fat,  and  most  tender;  but  the  under 
side  is  sometimes  preferred,  because  more  lean  and  dry. 

Beef—  Brisket. 

THE  brisket  is  gene- 
rally cut  in  neat  slices, 
in  the  direction  of  a  to 
b,  quite  down  to  the 
bone ;  but  some  like  it 
cut  in  the  direction  of 
c  to  d.  The  fat  of  the 
upper  side  is  most  firm, 

and  somewhat  gristly;  •, 

but  that  on  the  under  side  is  softer  and  more  delicate. 

Mutton — Leg. 

CUT  down  quite 
to  the  bone,  in  the 
line  of  a  b,  which 
goes  through  the 
kernel  called  the 
pope's  eye;  help 
in  deep  thin  slices 
forward  to  e.  The 
back  of  the  leg  al- 
so furnishes  some 
very  fine  slices; 
and  must  be  cut  in  the  direction  of  b  to  g.  The  fat  lies  in 
the  direction  of  e  e,  and  must  be  cut  from  e  to  f.  Tro  take 
out  the  cramp  bone,  pass  the  knife  from  d  to  c. 


318 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 


Mutton — Sh  oulder. 

THE  first  cut  is  made  in 
the  hollow  part,  in  the  direc- 
tion a  to  b,  quite  down  to  the 
bone :  when  the  hollow  part 
is allhelped  away, some  very 
delicate  slices  may  be  taken 
out  of  each  side  of  the  blade- 
bone,  in  the  direction  d  to 
c.      The  best   fat  lies    on 
the  outer  ridge,  and  is  cut  in  thin  slices  in  the  direction  g  to 
f.     There    are    two 
parts   in   the    under 
side  very  full  of  gra- 
vy, and  by  many  pre- 
ferred to  the  upper 
side.     One  is,  by  a 
deep  cut  in  the  line 
g    h,     accompanied 
with  fat ;  and  the  other 
all  lean,  in  a  line  from, 
/to/t. 

Mutton — Haun  ch , 
Is  carved  like  venison. 

Venison — Haunch. 

CUT  it  across  down  to  the 
bone,  in  the  line  a,  b,  c;  and 
putting  in  the  knife  at  b,  cut 
in  the  line  6,  d.  The  fat  lies 
between  d  and  a,  and  should 
be  properly  proportioned. 

Veal— Fillet. 

MANY  persons  are  fond  of 
the  outside  slice  of  this  joint, 
which  should  be  cut  thin  and 
even  from  a  to  c ;  at  the  same 
time  help  to  a  little  of  the  fat 
and  situfnng,  which  lies  under 
b :  to  i  nake  the  fillet  look  hand- 
some, a.11  the  succeeding  slices  should  be  cut  parallel  with  the 
first. 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 


319 


Vtal — Breast. 

DIVIDE  the  brisket  from  the  ribs,  and  help  a  little  of  the 
sweetbread  to  either. 

Calf's  Head.  \ 

CUT  slices  from  a  to 
6,  letting  the  knife  go 
close  to  the  bone ;  the 
throat  sweetbread  lies 
in  the  fleshy  part,  at 
the  neck  end  c,  and 
slices  should  be  helped 
from  c  to  d  with  the 
other  part.  As  the  eye 
is  reckoned  a  dainty,  it  should  be  neatly  cut  out  with  the  point 
of  the  knife,  and  divided  in  two.  On  taking  off  the  jaw- 
bone some  fine  lean  will  be  found,  and  under  the  head  is  the 
palate,  which  is  also  highly  liked. 

Pork — Leg, 

Is  carved  exactly  as  the  leg  of  mutton. 
Pork — Sparerib. 

CUT  slices  out  of  the  thick  part  .at  the  bottom  of  the 
bones,  and  when  the  fleshy  parts  are  all  done,  separate  and 
help  the  bones. 

Ham. 

HAM  may  be  cut  three 
ways :  having  cut  off  the 
hock  at  e,  take  thin  cir- 
cular slices  all  round  the 
bone  to  c,  and  afterwards 
carve  it  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  venison  :  or,  cut 
down  to  the  bone  in  the 
line  a,  b,  and  take  thin  slices  each  way :  or,  with  the  point  of 
the  knife  cut  a  small  round  hole  at  c,  and  continue  to  cut  it 
in  thin  circular  slices. 


SEPARATE  the  shoul- 
der and  leg  in  the 
line  a,  b,  ct  and  di- 
vide the  ribs,  which 
are  reckoned  the  finest 
part;  although  many 


320 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 


prefer  the  neck  end,  and  even  the  legs  :  the  ear  and  jaw  are 
counted  delicacies,  and  should  also  be  offered,  with  plenty  of 
sauce,  and  a  spoonful  of  the  force  or  stuffing. 

Lamb — Fore-quarter. 

SEPARATE  the  shoulder  from 
the  breast  and  ribs,  in  the  line 
a,  A,  cy  d,  without  cutting  too 
much  meat  from  the  bones ; 
,  squeeze  a  little  Seville  orange 
or  lemon,  and  sprinkle  a  little 
white  pepper  and  salt :  separate  the  gristly  part  of  the  ribs  in 
the  line  e,  c,  and  help  from  the  part  chosen. 

Hare,  or  Rabbit. 

PUT  the  point  of  the 
knife  under  the  shoul- 
der at  a,  and  cut  all  the 
way  down  to  the  rump 
in  the  line  a,  b ;  do  the 
same  on  the  other  side : 
cut  the  back  into  four, 
which,  with  the  legs, 
are  the  parts  most 
esteemed.  Cat  off  the 
shoulder  in  the  line  c,  d,  a;  and  cut  the  head  in  two  :  help  to 
the  part  approved,  with  a  little  stuffing  and  gravy  to  each. 

Goose. 

CUT  off  the  apron  in 
the  line  a,  b,  c,  pour  in 
the  sauce  (see  Sauces}, 
and  cut  the  breast  in 
long  slices  in  the  line 

d,  e;  this  will  make  the  

wings  smaller,  but  more  prime  pieces  may  be  thus  taken :  di- 
vide the  wing  b}7  passing  the  knife  through  the  joint  at  d,  and 
the  leg  in  the  same  manner  at  e:  cut  off  the  merry-thought 
at  d,/,  and  having  divided  the  pinions,  cut  off  the  neck  bones, 
and  separate  the  breast  from  the  back  :  cut  off  the  side-bits, 
or  sidesmen,  from  the  b;»ck,  and  divide  that  into  two  parts. 
It  requires  much  practice  to  carve  a  goose  neatly,  Help  each 
person  to  a  little  of  the  seasoning  and  gravy- 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 


321 


Ducks,  Teal,  and  Wild  Fowl, 

ARE,  in  general,  very  nearly  carved  in  the  same  manner  as 
goose. 

Turkey. 

TAKE  slices  from  the  breast  in  the 
line  from  a  to  b,  and  proceed  exactly 
in  the  same  manner  as  above  directed 
for  goose,  observing,  that  the  parts 
nearest  the  wings  are  most  delicate, 
and  help  a  little  of  the  liver,  if  ap- 
proved of,  to  each  person.  The  giz- 
zard is  generally  devilled ;  to  do  which, 
score  it  all  over  with  the  point  of  the  knife,  and  having 
mixed  up  a  spoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  cayenne  and  salt, 
rub  the  composition  over  the  whole,  and  send  it  out  to  be 
broiled. 

Fowl 

TAKE  off  the  wing  in  the  direction  from 
«  to  b;  slip  the  knife  between  the  body  and 
leg,  and  turn  it  back  with  the  fork:  pro- 
ceed afterwards  as  already  directed  for 
carving  goose. 

Pheasant. 

SLICE  down  the  breast  in  the  line  a,  b  ,• 
take  off  the  leg  in  the  direction  of  the  line 

b,  d,  and  cut  oft  the  wing  in  the  line  c  d;  se- 
parate the  leg  and  wing  on  the  other  side, 
and  cut  off  the  slices  of  the  breast ;  cut  off 
the  merry-thought  in  the  \inef,  g,  and 

proceed  as  above  directed  for  goose.  The  prime  parts  are  the 
breast,  wings,  and  merry-thought,  although  the  leg  is  of  a 
higher  flavour. 

Partridge 

Is  carved  in  the  same  manner  as  a  fowl ; 
the  wings  must  be  taken  off  in  the  lines 
a,  b,  and  the  merry-thought  in  the  line 

c,  b :    the  most  esteemed  parts  are,  the 
wings,  breast,  and  merry-thought. 


322 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  CARVING. 


Pigeons 

MAY  be  either  cut  in  halves  from  top  to 
bottom,  or  across  :  the  most  approved  way 
is  to  cut  from  the  neck  to  tf,  rather  than 
from  c  to  b,  by  a. 

Cod's  Head. 

WITH  the  fish-knife  or 
trowel,  take  off  a  piece 
quite  down  to  the  bone,  in 
the  direction  a,  b;  c,  d; 
putting  in  the  trowel  at  <z, 
t1;  and  with  each  slice  of 
fish  give  a  piece  of  the 

sound,  which  lies  underneath  the  back-bone  and  lines  it.  The 
parts  about  the  back-bone  on  the  shoulders  are  the  best;  and 
about  the  head  are  many  delicate  parts,  and  a  great  deal  of 
the  jelly  kind. 


Salmon. 


WITH  the  point  of  a 
sharp  carving-knife,  take 
slices  in  the  direction  of 
the  lines  a,  b,  and  c,  d; 
and  with  a  fish-trowel 
serve  slices  of  each  part ; 
the  back  being  more  dry 
and  firm  than  the  belly, 
which  is  both  fat  and  rich. 


Turbot. 


ENTER  the  fish-knife  or  trowel  in  the  middle  over  the  back- 
bone, and  take  off  a  piece  of  the  fish,  as  much  as  will  lie  on 
the  trowel,  on  one  side  close  to  the  bones.  The  thickest  part 
of  the  fish  is  always  the  most  esteemed. 

Soles. 

THESE  may  be  either  boiled  or  fried.  Cut  them  right  through 
the  middle,  bone  and  all,  and  give  a  piece  of  the  fish,  in  pro- 
portion to  the  size  of  it,  to  each  person. 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  CARVING.  323 


Mackerel. 

SLIT  this  fish  all  along  the  back  with  a  knife,  and  take  off 
one  whole  side,  not  too  near  the  head,  because  the  meat  about 
the  gills  is  generally  black  and  ill-flavoured. 

Eels. 

CUT  these  into  pieces  quite  through  the  bone.  The  thickest 
part  is  the  most  esteemed. 

Besides  these,  there  are  many  other  little  articles  brought 
to  table ;  but  as  they  are  mostly  simple  in  their  nature,  a  little 
observation  and  practice  will  make  complete  proficients  in  the 
art  of  carving, 


PART  IV. 

MADE  WINES,  CORDIAL  WATERS,  AND 
MALT  LIQUORS. 


CHAPTER  I. 


MADE  WINES. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

(TREAT  care  and  precaution  are  necessary  in  the  making 
wine,  as  it  is  frequently  spoiled  by  mismanagement.  If  you 
let  your  wine  stand  too  long  before  you  get  it  cold,  and  do 
not  take  great  care  to  put  your  barin  upon  it  in  time,  it  will 
make  it  fret  in  the  cask,  and  you  will  find  it  very  difficult,  if 
at  all  possible,  to  bring  it  to  any  degree  of  fineness.  On  the 
other  hand,  if  you  let  your  wine  work  too  long  in  the  tub, 
it  will  take  off  all  the  sweetness  and  flavour  of  the  fruit  or 
flowers  your  wine  is  made  from.  Be  careful  to  have  your 
vessels  dry,  and  rinsed  with  brandy;  and  as  soon  as  the  wine  is 
done  fermenting,  to  close  them  up  properly. 

Blackberry  Wine. 

HAVING  procured  berries  that  are  full  ripe,  put  them  into  a 
large  vessel  of  wood  or  stone,  with  a  cock  in  it,  and  pour  upon 
them  as  much  boiling  water  as  will  cover  them.  As  soon  as 
the  heat  will  permit  the  hand  to  be  put  into  the  vessel,  bruise 
them  well  till  all  the  berries  are  broken.  Then  let  them  stand 
covered  till  the  berries  begin  to  rise  towards  the  top,  which 
they  usually  do  in  three,  or  four  days.  Draw  off  the  clear  into 
another  vessel,  and  add  to  every  ten  quarts  of  this  liquor  one 
pound  of  sugar.  Stir  it  well  in,  and  let  it  stand  to  work  a 
week  or  ten  days,  in  another  vessel  like  the  first.  Then  draw 
it  off  at  the  cock  through  a  jelly-bag  into  a  large  vessel.  Take 
four  ounces  of  isinglass,  and  lay  it  to  steep  twelve  hours  in  a 
pint  of  white  wine.  The  next  morning  boil  it  up  on  a  slow  fire 
till  it  is  all  dissolved.  Then  take  a  gallon  of  blackberry  juice, 
put  in  the  dissolved  isinglass,  give  them  a  boil  together,  and 


MADE  WINES.  .  325 

pour  all  into  the  vessel.     Let  it  stand  a  few  days  to  purge  and 
settle,  then  draw  it  off,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Gooseberry  Wine. 

GOOSEBERRIES  for  this  purpose  must  be  gathered  in  dry 
weather,  and  when  they  are  only  half  ripe.  Pick  and  bruise  a 
peck  of  them  in  a  tub ;  then  take  a  horse-hair  cloth,  and  press 
them  as  much  as  possible  without  breaking  the  seeds.  Hav- 
ing pressed  out  all  the  juice,  to  every  gallon  of  gooseberries 
put  three  pounds  of  fine  dry  powdered  sugar.  Stir  all  toge- 
ther till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  then  put  it  into  a  vessel 
or  cask,  which  must  be  quite  filled.  If  it  be  ten  or  twelve 
gallons,  let  it  stand  a  fortnight;  but  if  a  twenty  gallon  cask, 
it  must  stand  three  weeks.  Set  it  in  a  cool  place,  then  draw  it 
off  from  the  lees,  and  pour  in  the  clear  liquor  again.  If  a 
ten  gallon  cask,  let  it  stand  three  months;  if  a  twenty  gallon 
cask,  four  months,  and  then  bottle  it  off. 

Pearl  Gooseberry  Wine. 

TAKE  the  best  pearl  gooseberries,  bruise  them,  and  let  them 
stand  all  night ;  the  next  morning  press  or  squeeze  them  out, 
and  let  the  liquor  stand  to  settle  seven  or  eight  hours:  then 
pour  off  the  clear  from  the  settling,  and  measure  it  as  it  is 
put  into  the  vessel,  adding  to  every  three  pints  of  liquor  a 
pound  of  double-refined  sugar.  Break  the  sugar  in  small 
lumps,  and  put  it  into  the  vessel,  with  a  piece  of  isinglass. 
Stir  it  up,  and  at  three  months  end  bottle  it,  putting  a  lump 
of  double-refined  sugar  into  every  bottle. 

Damson  Wine. 

GATHER  the  damsons  on  a  dry  day,  weigh  them,  and  then 
bruise  them ;  put  them  into  a  steen  that  has  a  cock  in  it, 
and  to  every  eight  pounds  of  fruit  put  a  gallon  of  water. 
Boil  the  water,  skim  it,  and  put  it  scalding  hot  to  the  fruit. 
Let  it  stand  two  days,  then  draw  it  off,  and  put  it  into  a  ves- 
sel, and  to  every  gallon  of  liquor  put  two  pounds  and  a  half 
of  fine  sugar :  fill  up  the  vessel,  and  stop  it  close,  and  the 
longer  it  stands  the  better.  Keep  it  twelve  months  in  the  ves- 
sel, and  then  bottle  it,  putting  a  lump  of  sugar  into  every 
bottle.  The  small  damson  is  the  best  for  this  purpose. 

Orange  Wine. 

TAKE  six  gallons  of  spring  water,  and  boil  it  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  with  twelve  pounds  of  the  best  powder  sugar, 
and  the  whites  of  eight  or  ten  eggs  well  beaten.  When  it  is 


326  MADE  WINES. 

cold,  put  into  it  six  spoonfuls  of  yeast.  Take  the  juice  of 
twelve  lemons,  which  being  pared,  must  stand  with  two  pounds 
of  white  sugnr  in  a  proper  vessel,  and  in  the  morning  skim  off 
the  top,  and  put  it  into  the  water.  Then  add  the  juice  and  rinds 
of  fifty  oranges,  but  not  the  white  parts  of  the  rinds,  and 
then  let  them  work  all  together  for  forty-eight  hours.  Then 
add  two  quarts  of  the  Rhenish  or  white  wine,  and  put  it  into 
the  vessel. 

Or,  take  thirty  pounds  of  new  Malaga  raisins,  picked  clean  ; 
chop  them  small,  and  take  twenty  l.ir^e  Seville  oranges,  ten 
of  which  pare  as  thin  as  for  preserving.  Boil  about  eight 
gallons  of  soft  water  till  one  third. of  it  is  wasted,  and  let  it 
cool  a  little.  Then  put  five  gallons  of  it  hot  upon  the  raisins 
and  orange-peel,  stir  it  well  together,  cover  it  up,  and  when 
it  is  cold,  let  it  stand  five  days,  stirring  it  once  or  twice 
a  day.  Then  pass  it  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  Avith  a  spoon 
press  it  as  dry  as  possible.  Put  it  in  a  rundlet  fit  for  it,  and 
put  to  it  the  rinds  of  the  other  ten  oranges,  cut  as  thin  as  the 
first.  Then  make  a  syrup  of  the  juice  of  twenty  oranges, 
with  a  pound  of  white  sugar.  It  must  be  made  the  day  be- 
fore it  is  tunned  up.  Stir  it  well  together,  and  stop  it  close  ; 
let  it  stand  two  months  to  clear,  and  then  bottle  it  up.  It  will 
be  better  at  the  end  of  the  third  year  than  at  the  first. 

Lemon  Wine. 

PARE  off  the  rinds  of  six  large  lemons,  cut  them,  and 
squeeze  out  the  juice,  steep  the  rinds  in  the  juice,  and  put 
to  it -a  quart  of  brandy :  let  it  stand  three  days  in  an  earthen 
pot  close  stopped  ;  then  squeeze  six  more,  and  mix  it  with 
two  quarts  of  spring  water,  and  as  much  sugar  as  will  sweeten 
the  whole.  Boil  the  water,  lemons,  and  sugar  together,  and 
let  it  stand  till  it  be  cool.  Then  add  a  quart  of  white  wine, 
and  the  other  lemons  and  brandy,  then  mix  them  together, 
and  run  it  through  a  flannel  bag  into  some  vessel.  Let  it 
stand  three  months,  and  then  bottle  it  off.  Cork  the  bottles 
well,  keep  it  cool,  and  it  will  be  fit  to  drink  in  a  month  or 
six  weeks. 

Or,  pare  five  dozen  of  lemons  very  thin,  put  the  peels  into 
five  quarts  of  French  brandy,  and  let  them  stand  fourteen 
days.  Then  make  the  juice  into  a  syrup  with  three  pounds  of 
single-refined  sugar,  and  when  the  peels  are  ready,  boil  fif- 
teen gallons  of  water,  with  forty  pounds  of  single-refined  su- 
gar, tor  half  an  hour.  Then  put  it  into  a  tab,  and  when  cool, 
add  to  it  one  spoonful  of  barm,  and  let  it  work  two  days. 
Then  tun  it,  and  put  in  the  brandy,  peels,  and  syrup.  Stir 
them  all  together,  and  close  up  the  cask.  Let  it  stand  three 


MADE  WINES.  321 

months,  then  botile  it,  and  it  will  be  as  pale  and  as  fine  as  any 
citron  water. 

Currant  Wine. 

LET  the  currants  be  full  I'ipe,  and  gathered  on  a  dry  day; 
strip  them,  put  them  into  a  large,  pan,  and  bruise  them  with  a 
wooden  pestle  ;  let  them  stand  in  a  tub  or  pan  twenty-four 
hours  to  ferment,  then  run  it  through  a  hair-sieve,  and  do  not 
let  the  hand  touch  the  liquor.  To  every  gallon  of  this  liquor 
put  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  white  sugar,  stir  it  well  toge- 
ther, and  put  it  into  the  vessel.  To  e.very  six  gallons  put  in 
a  quart  of  brandy,  and  let  it  stand  six  weeks.  If  it  is  then 
fine,  bottle  it ;  but  if  not,  draw  it  off  as  clear  as  possible  into 
another  vessel  or  large  bottles,  and  in  a  fortnight  put  it  into 
smaller  bottles. 

Raisin  Wine. 

PUT  two  hundredweight  of  raisins,  stalks  and  all,  into  a 
large  hogshead,  and  fill  it  with  water.  Let  them  steep  a  fort- 
night, stirring  them  every  clay;  then  pour  off  the  liquor,  and 
press  the  raisins.  Put  both  liquors  together  into  a  nice  clean 
vessel  that  will  just  hold  it,  for  it  must  be  full.  Let  it  stand 
till  it  has  done  hissing,  or  making  the  least  noise;  then  stop 
it  close,  and  let  it  stand  six  months.  Peg  it,  and  if  not  quite 
clear,  rack  it  off  in  another  vessel.  Stop  it  again  close,  and 
let  it  stand  three  months  longer.  Then  bottle  it,  and  when 
used,  rack  it  off  into  a  decanter. 

Grape  Wine. 

To  a  gallon  of  grapes  put  a  gallon  of  water.  Bruise  the 
grapes,  let  them  stand  a  week  without  stirring,  and  then  draw 
it  off  fine.  Put  to  a  gallon  of  the  wine  three  pounds  of  sugar, 
and  then  put  it  into  a  vessel,  but  do  not  stop  it  till  it  has 
done  hissing. 

Cherry  Wine. 

When  cherries  are  full  ripe,  pull  them  off  the  stalks,  and 
press  them  through  a  hair-sieve.  To  every  gallon  of  liquor 
put  two  pounds  of  lump  sugar  finely  beaten,  then  stir  it  to- 
gether, and  put  it  into  a  vessel,  which  must  be  filled.  When 
ft  has  done  working,  and  ceases  to  make  any  noise,  stop  it 
close  for  three  months,  and  bottle  it  off. 

Raspberry  Wine. 

WITH  the  back  of  a  spoon  bruise  the  finest  raspberries, 
strain  them  through  a  flannel  bag  into  a  stone  jar.     To 


328  MADE  WINES. 

each  quart  of  juice  put  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar,  then 
stir  it  well  together,  and  cover  it  close.  Let  it  stand  three 
days,  and  pour  it  off  clear.  To  a  quart  of  juice  put  two 
quarts  of  white  wine,  and  bottle  it  off.  It  will  be  fit  for 
drinking  in  about  a  week. 

Apricot  Wine. 

TAKE  three  pounds  of  sugar,  and  three  quarts  of  water ;  let 
them  boil  together,  and  skim  it  well.  Then  put  in  six 
pounds  of  apricots  pared  and  stoned,  and  let  them  boil  till 
they  are  tender.  Take  them  up,  and  when  the  liquor  is  cold 
bottle  it  up.  Or,  after  the  apricots  are  taken  out,  let  the 
liquor  have  a  boil  with  a  sprig  of  flowered  clary  in  it.  The 
apricots  will  make  marmalade,  and  be  very  good  for  present 
use. 

Plum  Wine. 

TAKE  twenty  pounds  of  Malaga  raisins,  pick,  rub,  and 
shred  them,  and  put  them  into  a  tub;  then  take  four  gallons 
of  water,  boil  it  an  hour,  and  let  it  stand  till  milk-warm.  Put 
in  the  raisins,  and  let  it  stand  nine  or  ten  days,  stirring  it 
once  or  twice  each  day.  Strain  out  the  liquor,  and  mix  it 
with  two  quarts  of  damson  juice.  Put  it  into  a  vessel,  and 
when  it  has  done  working,  stop  it  up  close.  Let  it  stand 
four  or  five  months,  and  then  bottle  it. 

Mulberry  Wine. 

GATHER  mulberries  when  they  are  just  changed  from  their 
redness  to  a  shining  black,  and  be  sure  to  gather  them  on  a 
dry  day,  when  the  sun  has  taken  off  the  dew.  Spread  them 
thinly  on  a  fine  cloth  on  a  floor  or  table  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Boil  up  a  gallon  of  water  to  each  gallon  of  juice  gotten  out 
of  them  ;  then  skim  the  water  well,  and  add  a  little  cinnamon 
slightly  bruised.  Put  to  each  gallon  six  ounces  of  white  su- 
gar-candy finely  beaten  ;  then  skim  and  strain  the  water,  when 
it  has  been  taken  off  and  has  settled,  and  put  it  to  the  juice 
of  some  more  mulberries.  To  every  gallon  of  the  liquor  add 
a  pint  of  white  wine  or  Rhenish  vrine.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cask 
to  purge  or  settle  for  five  or  six  days,  and  then  draw  off  the 
wine  and  keep  it  cool. 

Walnut  Wine. 

PUT  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  a  pound  of  honey  to 
every  gallon,  of  water;  boil  them  half  an  hour,  and  take  off 
the  scum.  Put  into  the  tub  a  handful  of  walnut  leaves  to 


MADE  WINES.  329 

every  gallon,  and  pour  the  liquor  upon  them.  Let  it  stand 
all  night,  then  take  out  the  leaves,  and  put  in  half  a  pint  of 
yeast.  Let  it  work  fourteen  days,  and  beat  it  four  or  five 
times  a  day,  which  will  take  off  the  sweetness.  Then  stop 
up  the  cask,  and  let  it  stand  six  months. 

Quince  Wine. 

TAKE  twenty  large  quinces,  gathered  when  they  are  dry 
and  full  ripe.  Wipe  them  clean  with  a  coarse  cloth,  and 
grate  them  with  a  large  grater  or  rasp  as  near  the  cores  as  pos- 
sible ;  but  do  not  touch  the  cores.  Boil  a  gallon  of  spring 
water,  throw  in  the  quinces,  and  let  them  boil  softly  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  strain  them  well  into  an  earthen 
pan  on  two  pounds  of  double-refined  sugar.  Pare  the  peel 
off  two  large  lemons,  throw  them  in,  and  squeeze  the  juice 
through  a  sieve.  Stir  it  about  till  it  is  very  cool,  and  then 
toast  a  thin  bit  of  bread  very  brown,  rub  a  little  yeast  on  it, 
and  let  the  whole  stand  close  covered  twenty-four  hours.  Take 
out  the  toast  and  lemon,  put  the  wine  in  a  cask,  keep  it  three 
months  and  bottle  it.  If  a  twenty  gallon  cask,  let  it  stand 
six  months  before  bottling  it ;  and  remember,  when  straining 
the  quinces,  to  wring  them  hard  in  a  coarse  cloth. 

Clary  Wine. 

TAKE  twenty-four  pounds  of  Malaga  raisins,  pick  them 
and  chop  them  very  small ;  put  them  into  a  tub,  and  to  each 
pound  put  a  quart  of  water :  let  them  steep  ten  or  eleven 
days,  stirring  it  twice  every  day,  and  mind  to  keep  it  covered. 
Then  strain  it  off,  and  put  it  into  a  vessel,  with  about  half  a 
peck  of  the  tops  of  clary,  when  it  is  in  blossom.  Stop  it 
close  for  six  weeks,  and  then  bottle  it  off.  In  two  or  three 
months  it  will  be  fit  to  drink.  As  it  is  apt  to  have  a  great  se- 
diment at  bottom,  it  will  be  best  to  draw  it  off  by  plugs,  or 
rap  it  pretty  high. 

Birch  Wine. 

THE  beginning  of  March  is  the  season  for  procuring  the  li- 
quor from  the  birch  trees,  while  the  sap  is  rising,  and  before 
the  leaves  shoot  out ;  for  when  the  sap  is  come  forward,  and 
the  leaves  appear,  the  juice,  by  being  long  digested  in  the 
bark,  grows  thick  and  coloured,  which  before  was  thin  and 
clear.  The  method  of  procuring  the  juice  is,  by  boring  holes 
in  the  body  of  the  tree,  and  putting  in  fossets,  which  are 
usually  made  of  the  branches  of  elder,  the  pith  being  taken 
out.  Yon  may,  without  hurting  the  tree,  if  it  be  large,  tap 
it  in  several  places,  four  or  five  at  a  time,  and  by  that  mean* 


330  MADE  WINES. 

save,  from  a  good  many  trees,  several  gallons  every  day.  If 
you  do  not  get  enough  in  one  day,  the  bottles  in  which  it 
drops  must  be  corked  clo.->e,  and  rosined  or  waxed  ;  however, 
make  use  of  it  as  soon  as  you  can,  Take  the  sap,  and  boil  it 
as  long  as  any  scum  will  rise,  skimming  it  all  tiie  time.  To 
every  gallon  of  liquor  put  four  pounds  of  good  sugar,  and 
the  thin  peel  of  a  lemon.  Then  boil  it  half  an  hour,  and  keep 
skimming  it  well.  Pour  it  into  a  clean  tub,  and  when  it  is 
almost  cold,  set  it  to  work  with  yeast  spread  upon  a  toast. 
Let  it  stand  five  or  six  days,  stirring  it  often.  Then  take  a 
cask  just  large  enough  to  hold  all  the  liquor,  fire  a  large 
match  dipped  in  brimstone,  and  throw  it  into  the  cask.  Stop 
it  close  till  the  match  is  extinguished,  then  tun  the  wine,  lay 
the  bung  on  lightly  till  it  has  done  working,  then  stop  it  close, 
and  after  three  months  bottle  it. 

Or,  to  a  hogshead  of  birch  water  take  four  hundred  of  Ma- 
laga raisins  ;  pick  them  clean  from  the  stalks,  and  cut  them 
small.  Then  boil  the  birch  liquor  for  one  hour  at  least,  skim 
it  well,  and  let  it  stand  till  no  warmer  than  milk.  Then  put  in 
the  raisins,  and  let  it  stand  close  covered,  stirring  it  well  four 
or  five  times  every  day.  Boil  all  the  stalks  in  a  gallon  or 
two  of  birch  liquor,  which,  when  added  to  the  other  when 
almost  cold,  will  give  it  an  agreeable  roughness.  Let  it  stand 
ten  days,  then  put  it  in  a  cool  cellar,  and  when  it  has  done 
hissing  in  the  vessel,  stop  it  up  close.  It  must  stand  at  least 
nine  months  before  it  is  bottled. 

Cowslip  Wine. 

TAKE  twelve  pounds  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  six  lemons,  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  and  six  gallons  of  water. 
Put  all  together  in  a  kettle,  and  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  taking 
care  to  skim  it  well.  Take  a  peck -of  cowslips,  and  put  them 
into  a  tub,  with  the  thin  peeling  of  six  lemons.  Then  pour 
on  thfe'boiling  liquor,  and  stir  them  about,  and  when  it  is  al- 
most cold,  put  in  a  thin  toast,  baked  hard,  and  rubbed  with 
yeast.  Let  it  stand  two  or  three  days  to  work.  Six  ounces 
of  syrup  of  citron  or  lemon,  with  a  quart  of  Rhenish  wine, 
added  before  tunning,  will  be  a  great  improvement.  The 
third  day  strain  it  off,  and  squeeze  the  cowslips  through  a 
coarse  cloth.  Then  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  tun 
it  up.  Leave  the  bung  loose  for  two  or  three  days  till  it  has 
done  working,  and  then  bung  it  down  tight.  Let  it  stand  three 
months  and  bottle  it. 

Turnip  Wine. 

TAKE  turnips,  pare  and  slice  them,  put  them  into  a  cyder 
press,  and  press  out  all   the  juice;  to  every  gallon  of  juice 


MADE  WINES.  331 

put  three  pounds  of  lump  sugar,  put  both  into  a  vessel  just 
big  enough  to  hold  them,  and  add  to  every  gallon  of  juice 
half  a  pint  of  brandy.  Lay  some  thing  over  the  bung  for  a 
week,  and  when  it  has  done  working,  bung  it  down  close. 
When  it  has  stood  three  months,  draw  it  off  into  another 
vessel,  and  when  fine,  put  it  into  bottles. 

Elder  Wine. 

GATHER  elder  berries  when  ripe,  put  them  into  a  stone  jar, 
or  set  them  in  the  oven,  or  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  till  the 
jar  is  hot  enough.  Then  take  them  out,  and  strain'  them 
through  a  hair  cloth,  wringing  the  berries,  and  put  the  juice 
into  a  clean  kettle.  To  every  quart  of  juice  put  a  pound  of 
fine  Lisbon  sugar,  then  let  it  boil,  and  skim  it  well.  When  it 
is  clear  and  fine,  pour  it  into  a  jar,  and  when  cold,  cover  it 
close,  and  keep  it  till  you  make  raisin  wine.  When  you  tun 
the  raisin  wine,  to  every  gallon  put  half  a  pint  of  the  elder 
syrup.  This  is  more  properly  called  elder  raisin  wine. 

Or,  take  the  flowers  of  elder,  and  take  care  not  to  let  any 
stalks  in  ;  to  every  quart  of  flowers  put  one  gallon  of  water, 
and  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar  a 
quarter  of  an^hour,  tlien  pour  it  on  the  flowers,  and  let  it  work 
three  days.  Then  strain  the  wine  through  a  hair  sieve,  and 
put  it  into  a  cask.  To  every  ten  gallons  of  wine  add  an  ounce 
of  isinglass  dissolved  in  cyder,  and  six  whole  eggs.  Close  it 
up,  let  it  stand  six  months,  and  then  bottle  it. 

Rose  Wine. 

TAKE  a  well-glazed  earthen  vessel,  and  put  into  it  three 
gallons  of  rose  water  drawn  with  a  cold  still.  Put  into  that  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  rose  leaves,  cover  it  close,  and  set  it  for 
an  liour  in  a  kettle  or  copper  of  hot  water,  to  take  out  the 
whole  strength  and  tincture  of  the  roses ;  and  when  it.  hs  cold, 
press  the  rose  leaves  hard  into  the  liquor;  and  steep  fresh 
ones  in  it,  repeating  it  till  the  liquor  has  got  the  full  strength 
of  the  roses.  To  every  gallon  of  liquor  put  three  pounds  of 
loaf  sugar,  and  stir  it  well,  that  it  may  melt  and  disperse  in 
every  part.  Then  put  it  into  a  cask  or  other  convenient  ves- 
sel, to  ferment,  and  put  into  it  a  piece  of  bread  toasted  hard 
and  covered  with  yeast.  Let  it  stand  about  thirty  clays,  when 
it  will  be  ripe,  and  have  a  fine  flavour,  having  the  whole 
strength  and  scent  of  the  roses  in  it;  and  may  be  greatly  im- 
proved, by  adding  to  it  wine  and  spices.  By  this  method  of 
infusion,  wine  of  carnations,  clove  gilliflower,  violets,  prim- 
roses, or  any  other  flower,  having  a  curious  scent,  may  be 
made. 


332  MADE  WINES. 

Barley  Wine. 

BOIL  half  a  pound  of  French  barley  in  three  waters,  and 
save  three  pints  of  the  last  water.  Mix  it  with  a  quart  of 
white  wine,  half  a  pint  of  borage  water,  as  much  clary  water, 
a  little  red  rose  water,  the  juice  of  five  or  six  lemons,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  and  the  thin  yellow  rind  of 
a  lemon.  Mix  all  these  well  together,  run  it  through  a  strainer, 
and  bottle  it  up.  It  is  pleasant  in  hot  weather,  and  is  very  good 
in  fevers. 

English  Fig  Wine. 

TAKE  the  large  blue  figs,  when  pretty  ripe,  and  steep  them 
in  white  wine,  having  made  some  slits  in  them,  that  they  may 
swell  and  gather  in  the  substance  of  the  wine  :  then  slice  some 
other  figs,  and  let  them  simmer  over  a  fire  in  water  till  re- 
duced to  a  kind  of  pulp.  Strain  out  the  water,  pressing  the 
pulp  hard,  and  pour  it  as  hot  as  possible  on  the  figs  that  are 
imbrued  in  the  wine.  Let  the  quantities  be  nearly  equal,  but 
the  water  somewhat  more  than  the  wine  and  figs.  Let  them 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  mash  them  well  together,  and  draw 
off  what  will  run  without  squeezing.  Then  press  the  rest,  and 
if  not  sweet  enough,  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sugar,  to 
make  it  so.  Let  it  ferment,  and  add  a  little  honey  and  sugar- 
candy  to  it ;  then  fine  it  with  whites  of  eggs  and  a  little  isin- 
glass, and  draw  it  off  for  use. 

O  ' 

Ginger  Wine. 

BOIL  seven  pounds  of  Lisbon  sugar  in  four  gallons  of  spring 
water  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  skim  it  well.  When  the 
liquor  is  cold,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  then 
boil  the  peels,  with  two  ounces  of  ginger,  in  three  pints  of 
water  for  an  hour.  When  cold,  put  it  all  together  into  a  bar- 
rel, with  two  spoonsful  of  yeast,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isin- 
glass beat  very  thin,  and  two  pounds  of  jar  raisins.  Then 
close  it  up,  let  it  stand  seven  weeks,  and  bottle  it.  The  spring 
is  the  best  season  for  making  it. 

Sycamore  Wine. 

BOIL  two  gallons  of  the  sap  half  an  hour,  and  then  add  to 
it  four  pounds  of  fine  powdered  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  mix  them  with  the  liquor;  but  take 
care  that  it  is  not  too  hot,  as  that  will  poach  the  eggs.  Skim 
it  well,  and  boil  it  half  an  hour.  Then  strain  it  through  a 
hair  sieve,  and  let  it  stand  till  next  day.  Pour  it  clean  from  the 


MADE  WINES.  333 

sediment,  put  half  a  pint  of  yeast  to  every  twelve  gallons,  and 
cover  it  close  up  with  blankets.  Then  put  it  into  the  barrel, 
and  leave  the  bung  hole  open  till  it  has  done  working.  Close 
it  up  well,  and  after  it  has  stood  three  months,  bottle  it.  The 
fifth  part  of  the  sugar  must  be  loaf :  and  raisins  will  be  a  great 
improvement  to  the  wine. 

Sack  Mead  (Vine. 

To  every  gallon  of  water  put  four  pounds  of  honey,  and 
boil  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  taking  care  properly  to  skim 
it.  To  each  gallon  add  half  an  ounce  of  hops,  then  boil  it 
half  an  hour,  and  let  it  stand  till  the  next  day.  Put  it  into  a 
cask,  and  to  thirteen  gallons  of  the  above  liquor  add  a  quart  of 
brandy  or  sack.  Let  it  be  lightly  closed  till  the  fermentation 
is  done,  and  stop  it  up  very  close.  If  a  large  cask,  do  not 
bottle  it  till  it  has  stood  a  year. 

Walnut  Mead. 

To  every  gallon  of  water  put  three  pounds  and  a  half  of 
honey,  and  boil  them  together  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  To 
every  gallon  of  liquor  put  about  two  dozen  of  walnut  leaves, 
pour  the  liquor  boiling  hot  upon  them,  and  let  them  stand  all 
night :  take  out  the  leaves,  put  in  a  spoonful  of  yeast,  and  let 
it  work  two  or  three  days.  Then  make  it  up,  and  after  it  has 
stood  three  months,  bottle  it. 

Cowslip  Mead. 

To  fifteen  gallons  of  water  put  thirty  pounds  of  honey,  and 
boil  it  till  one  gallon  is  wasted.  Skim  it,  take  it  off"  the  fire, 
and  have  ready  sixteen  lemons  cut  in  halves.  Take  a  gallon 
of  the  liquor,  and  put  it  to  the  lemons.  Put  the  rest  of  the 
liquor  into  a  tub,  with  seven  pecks  of  cowslips,  and  let  them 
stand  all  night.  Put  in  the  liquor  with  the  lemons,  eight 
spoonsful  of  new  yeast,  and  a  handful  of  sweetbriar ;  stir  them 
all  well  together,  and  let  it  work  three  or  four  days.  Then 
strain  it,  put  it  into  a  cask,  and  after  kit  has  stood  six  months, 
bottle  it. 

Mead  Wine. 

To  one  hundred  and  twenty  gallons  of  pure  water,  the  softer 
the  better,  put  fifteen  gallons  of  clarified  honey.  When  the 
honey  is  well  mixed  with  the  water,  fill  a  copper,  which  holds 
only  sixty  gallons,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  reduced  about  a  fourth 
part.  Draw  it  off,  and  boil  the  remainder  of  the  liquor  in  the 
same  manner.  When  this  last  is  about  a  fourth  part  wasted, 


$34-  MADE  WINES. 

fill  up  the  copper  with  some  of  that  which  was  first  boiled, 
and  continue  boiling  it  and  filling  it  up,  till  the  copper  con- 
tains the  whole  of  the  liquor,  by  which  time  it  will  of  course 
be  half  evaporated.  In  boiling,  never  take  off  the  scum,  but, 
on  the  contrary,  have  it  well  mixed  with  the  liquor  whilst 
boiling,  by  means  of  a  jet.  When  this  is  done,  draw  it  off 
into  under  backs,  by  a  cock  at  the  bottom  of  the  copper,  in 
which  let  it  remain  till  only  as  warm  as  new  milk.  At  this 
time  tun  it  up,  and  suffer  it  to  ferment  in  the  vessel,  where 
it  will  form  a  thick  head.  As  soon  as  it  is  done  working,  stop 
it  down  very  close,  in  order  to  keep  the  air  from  it  as  much 
as  possible.  Keep  this  in  a  cool  cellar,  so  as  not  to  be  at  all 
affected  by  the  change  of  weather. 

Or,  take  eighty  pounds  of  purified  honey  to  one  hundred 
and  twenty  gallons  of  soft  water,  and  manage  in  the  making, 
in  all  respects,  like  the  first  above  mentioned,  it  proves  very 
pleasant,  good,  light  drinking,  and  is  by  many  preferred  to 
the  other,  which  is  much  richer,  and  has  a  fuller  flavour, 
but  at  the  same  time  it  is  more  inebriating.  Many  like  mead 
when  it  has  an  aromatic  flavour ,  and  for  this  purpose  they  mix 
elder,  rosemary,  and  marjoram  flowers  with  it ;  and  also  use 
cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger,  and  cardamums,  in  various  propor- 
tions, according  to  their  taste.  Others  put  in  a  mixture  of 
thyme,  eglantine,  marjoram,  and  rosemary,  with  various 
spices  ;  but  green  herbs  are  apt  to  make  mead  drink  flat ;  and 
too  many  cloves,  besides  being  very  predominant  in  the  taste, 
make  it  of  too  high  a  colour.  Never  bottle  mead  before  it  is 
half  a  year  old ;  and  take  care  to  have  it  well  corked,  and 
keep  it  in  the  same  vault  wherein  it  stood  whilst  in  the  cask. 

Balm  Wine. 

TAKE  forty  pounds  of  sugar  and  nine  gallons  of  water,  boil 
it  gently  for  two  hours,  skim  it  well,  and  put  it  into  a  tub  to 
cool ;  take  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  the  tops  of  balm,  bruise 
them,  and  put  them  into  a  barrel  with  a  little  new  yeast ;  and 
when  the  liquor  is  cold,  pour  it  on  the  balm.  Stir  it  well  to- 
gether, and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  stirring  it  often. 
Then  close  it  up,  and  let  it  stand  six  weeks.  Rack  it  off,  and 
put  a  lump  of  sugar  into  every  bottle.  Cork  it  well,  and  it 
will  be  better  the  second  year  than  the  first. 

Mountain  Wine. 

PICK  out  the  large  stalk  of  Malaga  raisins,  chop  them  very 
small,  and  put  five  pounds  of  them  to  every  gallon  of  cold 
spring  water.  Let  them  steep  a  fortnight  or  more,  then 


MADE  WINES.  33  £ 

squeeze  out  the  liquor,  and  put  it  into  a  small  vessel  that  will 
just  hold  it;  but  first  fume  it  with  brimstone.  Do  not  stop  it 
up  till  the  hissing  is  over. 

Cyprus  Wine. 

To  nine  gallons  of  water,  put  nine  quarts  of  the  jiffce  of 
the  white  elder  berries,  which  have  been  pressed  gently  from 
the  berries  with  the  hand,  and  passed  through  a  sieve  with- 
out bruising  the  kernels  of  the  berries.  Add  to  every  gallon 
of  liquor  three  pounds  of  Lisbon  sugar,  and  to  the  whole 
quantity  put  an  ounce  and  a.  half  of  ginger  sliced,  and  three 
quarters  of  an  ounce  of  cloves.  Then  boil  all  near  an  hour, 
taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  pour  the  whole  to  cool  in  an 
open  tub,  and  work  it  with  ale  yeast  spread  upon  a  toast  of 
white  bread  for  three  days  ;  then  turn  it  into  a  vessel  that  will 
just  hold  it,  adding  about  a  pound  and  a  half  of  raisins  of  the 
sun  split,  to  lie  in  the  liquor  till  drawn  off,  which  should  not  be 
till  the  wine  is  fine. 

Frontiniac  Wine. 

TAKE  twelve  pounds  of  white  sugar,  six  pounds  of  raisins 
of  the  sun  cut  small,  and  six  gallons  of  water,  and  let  them 
boil  an  hour.  Then  take  half  a  peck  of  the  flowers  of  elder, 
when  they  are  falling,  and  will  shake  off.  Put  them  in  the  li- 
quor when  it  is  almost  cold,  and  the  next  day  put  in  six 
spoonsful  of  the  syrup  of  lemons,  and  four  spoonsful  of  ale 
yeast.  Two  days  afterwards  put  it  into  a  vessel  that  will  just 
hold  it,  and  when  it  has  stood  two  months,  bottle  it  off. 

English  Champaign,, 

To  three  gallons  of  water  put  nine  pounds  of  Lisbon  Sugar, 
and  boil  the  water  and  sugar  half  an  hour,  observing  to  skim 
it  well.  Then  take  a  gallon  of  white  currants  picked,  but  not 
bruised,  and  pour  the  liquor  boiling  hot  over  them.  When 
nearly  cold,  put  into  it  some  barm,  keep  working  it  for  two 
days,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  rlannel  or  sieve.  Put  it 
into  a  barrel  that  will  just  hold  it,  with  half  an  ounce  of  isin- 
glass well  bruised.  When  it  has  done  working,  stop  it  close 
for  a  month,  then  bottle  ic,  and  in  every  bottle  put  a  very  small 
lump  of  double-refined  sugar. 

Saragossa  Wine,  or  English  Sack. 

PUT  a  sprit;  of  rue  into  every  quart  of  water,  and  to  every 
gallon  put  a  handful  of  fennel  roots.  Boil  these  half  an  hour, 
then  strain  it,  and  to  every  gallon  of  liquor  put  three  pounds 


336  MADE  WINES. 

of  hopey.  Boil  it  two  hours,  and  skim  it  well.  When  cold, 
pour  it  off,  and  turn  it  into  a  cask  or  vessel  that  will  just  hold 
it.  Keep  it  a  year  in  the  vessel,  and  then  bottle  it. 

Palermo  Wine. 

To  every  quart  of  water  put  a  pound  of  Malaga  raisins,  rub 
and  cut  them  small,  and  put  them  into  the  water;  let  them 
stand  ten  days,  stirring  them  once  or  twice  every  day.  Boil 
the  water  an  hour  before  putting  it  to  the  raisins,  and  let  it 
stand  to  cool.  At  (en  days'  end  strain  out  the  liquor,  and  put 
a  little  yeast  to  it.  At  the  end  of  three  days  put  it  into  the 
vessel,  with  a  sprig  of  dried  wormwood.  Let  it  be  stopped 
close,  and  at  the  end  of  three  months,  bottle  it. 

Vino  Pontificate. 

STEEP  the  zest  rinds  of  six  oranges  and  six  lemons  twenty- 
four  hours  in  a  gallon  of  good  brandy,  close  stopped  ;  boil  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  in  two  gallons  of  water  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  and  clarify  it  with  the  whites  of  ten  eggs. 
When  cold,  add  the  juice  of  twenty-four  oranges  and  five 
lemons  to  the  gallon  of  brandy.  Then  mix  all  together,  and 
strain  off  the  rinds.  Put  the  liquor  into  a  cask  well  stopped, 
and  after  six  weeks  draw  it  into  bottles,  when  it  will  be  fit  for 
use ;  but  will  grow  the  better  for  keeping. 

Raspberry  Brandy. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  water  and  two  quarts  of  brandy,  and  put 
them  into  a  pitcher  large  enough  to  hold  them  and  four  pints 
of  raspberries.  Put  in  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  let  it  re- 
main for  a  week  close  covered.  Then  take  a  piece  of  flannel, 
with  a  piece  of  Holland  over  it,  and  let  it  run  through  by 
degrees.  It  may  be  racked  into  other  bottles  a  week  after, 
and  then  it  will  be  perfectly  fine. 

Black  Cherry  Brandy. 

STONE  eight  pounds  of  black  cherries,  and  put  on  them  a 
gallon  of  the  best  brandy  ;  bruise  the  stones  in  a  mortar,  and 
put  them  into  the  brandy  ;  cover  them  up  close,  and  let  them 
stand  a  month  or  six  weeks.  Then  pour  it  clear  from  the  se- 
diments, and  bottle  it.  Morello  cherries,  managed  in  this 
manner,  make  a  fine  rich  cordial. 

Lemon  Brandy. 

PUT  five  quarts  of'water  to  one  gallon  of  brandy,  take  two 
dozen  of  lemons,  two  pounds  of  the  best  s\igar,  and  three 


MADE  WINES.  331 

pints  of  milk ;  pare  the  lemons  very  thin,  and  lay  the  peel  to 
steep  in  the  brandy  twelve  hours.  Squeeze  the  lemons  upon 
the  sugar,  then  put  the  water  to  it,  and  mix  ail  the  ingredients 
together.  Boil  the  milk,  and  pour  it  in  boiling  hot.  Let  it 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  and  strain  it. 

Orange  Brandy. 

PUT  the  chips  of  eighteen  Seville  oranges  in  three  quarts 
of  brandy,  and  let  them  steep  a  fortnight  in  a  stone  bottle 
close  stopped  :  boil  two  quarts  of  spring  water  with  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  the  finest  sugar,  near  an  hour  very  gently.  Cla- 
rify the  water  and  sugar  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  then  strain 
it  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  boil  it  near  half  way.  When  it  is 
cold,  strain  the  brandy  into  the  syrup. 

White  Currant  Shrub. 

HAVING  stripped  the  fruit,  prepare  in  ajar  as  for  jelly  :  piu 
one  gallon  of  rum,  and  two  pounds  of  lump  sugar  to  two  quarts 
of  the  strained  juice,  and  strain  through  a  jelly-bag  till  clear: 
bottle  for  use. 

Norfolk  Punch. 

HAVING  pared  six  lemons  and  three  Seville  oranges  very 
thin;  squeeze  the  juice  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  add  to  it  a 
quart  of  white  wine,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar,  two 
quarts  of  brandy,  and  one  quart  of  milk  :  mix  well  together, 
and  cover  close  for  twenty-four  hours  ;  then  strain  through  a 
jelly-bag  till  clear,  and  bottle. 

Milk  Punch. 

TAKE  two  pounds  of  sugar,  an.l  rub  it  upon  six  oranges 
and  six. lemons,  in  order  to  extract  the  essence;  put  the  sugar 
into  four  quarts  of  water  :  pare  the  oranges  and  lemons  very 
thin,  putting  the  parings  to  steep  in  a  bottle  of  rum  or  brandy 
for  twenty-four  hours  :  squeeze  the  fruit  on  the  sugar  and 
water,  and  add  a  quart  of  new  milk  boiling  hot;  mix  well  to- 
gether, and  add  the  parings  and  spirit :  strain  the  whole 
through  a  jelly-bag  till  clear,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Noyau — English. 

BLANCH  and  bruise  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  peach  ajid 
apricot  kernels;  or,  for  want  of  these,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
bitter  almonds,;  put  them  into  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let 
dtiem  stand  tw"b  hours;  then  add  three  pints  of  the  juice  ef 

Z 


338  MADE 'WINES. 

white  currants,  three  pounds  of  fine  loaf  sugar,  the  peels  of 
three  lemons  grated,  and  a  gallon  of  brandy:  stir  well  toge- 
ther, letting  all  stand  three  days,  then  strain  through  a  jelly- 
bag,  and  bottle.  Take  the  residue  left  in  the  bag,  and  pour 
on  it  a  quart  of  brandy,  and  let  stand  for  three  days ;  strain 
through  a  jelly-bag,  and  keep  for  flavouring  custards,  cakes3&c. 

Liqueur  au  Citron. 

HAVING  pared  eight  large  lemons,  cut  them  and  squeeze 
out  the  juice  ;  steep  the  rinds  in  the  juice,  and  add  to  it  a  quart 
of  brandy,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  stone  jar  closely  covered  for 
three  days :  squeeze  eight  more  lemons,  and  mix  with  them 
five  pints  of  spring  water,  and  five  pounds  of  sugar;  boil 
these  all  together,  skim  clean,  and  let  them  stand  till  cool, 
and  add  a  quart  of  white  wine,  and  the  other  lemon  juice  and 
brandy,  mix  well  together,  run  through  a  jelly -bag  into  a 
cask,  and  after  standing  three  months,  bottle  off,  and  keep  in 
a  cool  place. 

Malt  Spirits 

MAY  be  freed  from  their  nauseous  flavour,  and  rendered  fit 
for  making  liqueurs  and  other  compounds,  by  the  following 
mode :  to  every  quart  of  English  brandy  add  three  ounces 
and  a  half  of  fresh-burnt  charcoal  reduced  to  powder,  shake 
well  together,  and  keep  in  a  bottle  closely  stopped  for  two 
days:  decant  by  means  of  a  syphon,  or  strain  through  blot- 
ting paper. 

Or,  in  Distillation,  tie  to  the  nose  of  the  worm  a  flannel 
bag,  containing  two  ounces  of  powdered  charcoal  for  every 
quart  of  spirit  intended  to  be  distilled,  and  let  the  spirit  run 
through  the  bag. 


MAY  be  freed  from  its  disagreeable  flavour,  and  rendered 
fit  to  use  instead  of  sugar,  in  many  cases,  by  the  following 
mode:  take  twenty-four  pounds  of  treacle,  twenty-four  pounds 
of  water,  and  six  pounds  of  charcoal  coarsely  powdered  ;  mix 
together  in  a  kettle,  and  boil  the  whole  over  a  slow  wood  fire  : 
after  boiling  half  an  hour,  pour  it  into  a  flat  vessel,  in  order 
that  the  charcoal  may  subside  to  the  bottom  ;  draw  off  the 
liquid  by  a  syphon,  or  pour  it  off  without  disturbing  the 
charcoal :  put  it  into  a  clean  kettle,  set  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
evaporate  till  of  the  former  consistence.  Twenty -four  pounds 
of  treacle  will  thus  produce  an  equal  weight  of  pure  syrup, 
fit  for  most  domestic  purposes  where  sugar  is  intended  to  be 
used. 


CORDIAL  WATERS  339 


CHAPTER  II, 
CORDIAL  WATERS. 

PRELIMINARY  HINTS  AND  OBSERVATIONS. 

WHEN  your  still  is  a  limbec,  fill  the  top  with  cold  water 
when  you  set  it  on,  make  a  little  paste  of  flour  and  water, 
and  close  the  bottom  of  the  still  well  with  it.  Take  great  care 
that  your  fire  be  not  so  hot  as  to  make  it  boil  over,  as  that 
will  weaken  the  strength  of  the  water.  You  must  frequently 
change  your  water  on  the  top  of  your  still,  and  never  let  it  be 
scalding  hot,  for  your  still  will  drop  gradually  off.  If  you 
use  a  hot  Still,  when  you  put  on  the  top,  dip  a  cloth  in  white 
lead  and  oil,  and  lay  it  well  over  the  edges  of  your  still,  and  a 
coarse  wet  cloth  over  tHe  top.  It  will  require  little  fire  under 
it ;  but  you  must  be  sure  to  keep  it  very  clear.  When  your 
cloth  is  dry,  dip  it  in  cold  water,  and  lay  it  on  again  ;  and  if 
your  still  be  very  hot,  wet  another  cloth,  and  lay  it  round 
the  top.  If  you  use  a  worm-still,  keep  the  wnter  in  your 
tub  full  to  the  top,  and  change  it  often,  to  prevent  its  growing 
hot.  All  simple  waters  must  stand  two  or  three  days  before 
you  work  it,  in  order  to  take  off  the  fiery  taste  which  the  still 
gives  it. 

Parfetto  Amore. 

,  INFUSE  in  a  gallon  of  best  brandy  the  rind,  pared  thin,  of  six 
large  fresh  lemons  cut  in  small  pieces;  five  cloves,  five  co- 
riander seeds,  a  handful  of  currants,  a  little  cinnamon,  and  a 
little  salt ;  let  them  remain  in  steep  twelve  hours  ;  put  toge- 
ther into  the  still,  and  draw  off  two  quarts.  Take  two  pounds 
of  lump  sugar,  boiled  and  clarified  in  two  quarts  of  water 
with  three  eggs ;  take  also  a  little  alum  and  cream  of  tartar, 
mix  together  with  a  little  boiling  water,  and  rub  well  down  in 
a  marble  mortar;  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  add  to  the  cla- 
rified syrup:  mix  the  distilled  spirit  with  the  whole,  and  filter 
through  blotting  paper. 

Pcrsico. 

INFUSE  in  a  gallon  of  the  best  brandy,  six  ounces  of  bitter 
almonds  beaten  in  a  mortar,  two  cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  cin- 
namon, and  a  little  salt ;  let  them  steep  twenty-four  hours  '- 
z  2 


34O  CORDIAL  WATERS. 

put  into  a  still,  and  draw  off  two  quarts  ;  boil  two  pounds  of 
lump  sugar  in  two  quarts  of  water,  skimming  it,  and  when 
cool,  add  it  to  the  spirit. 

Cornelia. 

INFUSE  in  a  gallon  of  best  brandy  four  ounces  of  best  cin- 
namon, thirteen  coriander  seeds,  thirty  cloves,  and  a  little 
salt,  for  eighteen  hours:  put  into  a  still,  and  draw  off  till  the 
faints  rise.  Take  two  pounds  of  lump  sugar,  boiled  and  cla- 
rified in  five  pints  of  water,  with  three  whites  of  eggs  well 
beaten :  mix  with  the  spirit,  and  filter  through  blotting 
paper. 

Geroufle 

Is  made  with  cloves  instead  of  cinnamon,  adding  one  ounce 
of  best  cinnamon  to  it, 

Anniseed 
Is  made  like  cloves,  adding  cinnamon  to  the  palate. 

Coffee  and  Chocolate 

ARE  made  by  taking  one  pound  of  either,  infusing  in  a 
gallon  of  best  brandy,  with  four  cloves,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
cinnamon  :  draw  off  two  quarts,  and  sweeten  to  the  palate. 

Cordial  Water. 

TAKE  wormwood,  horebound,  feverfew,  and  lavender  cot- 
ton, of  each  three  handsful  ;  rue,  peppermint,  and  Seville 
orange  peel,  of  each  a  handful.  Steep  them  in  red  wine,  or 
the  bottoms  of  strong  beer,  all  night.  Then  distil  them 
pretty  quick  in  a  hot  still,  and  it  will  be  a  fine  cordial  to  take 
as  bitters. 

Angelica  Water. 

TAKE  eight  handfuls  of  the  leaves  of  angelica,  wash  and 
cut  them,  and  lay  them  on  a  table  to  dry.  When  dry  put 
them  into  an  earthen  pot,  and  put  to  them  four  quarts  of 
strong  wine  lees.  Let  it  infuse  twenty-four  hours,  but  stir  it 
twice  in  the  time.  Then  put  it  into  a  warm  still  or  an  alembic, 
and  draw  it  off.  Cover  the  bottles  with  a  paper,  and  prick 
holes  in  it,  and  let  it  stand  two  or  three  days.  Then  mix  all 
together,  sweeten  it,  and  when  it  is  settled,  bottle  it  up,  and 
stop  it  close. 


CORDIAL  WATERS.  341 


Peppermint  Water. 

PEPPERMINT  must  be  gathered  when  it  is  full  grown,  and  be.- 
fore  it  seeds.  Cut  it  in  short  lengths,  fill  the  still  with  it,  and 
cover  it  with  water.  Then  make  a  good  fire  under  it,  and 
when  it  is  near  boiling,  and  the  still  begins  to  drop,  if  the  fire 
is  too  hot,  draw  a  little  from  under  it,  to  keep  it  from  boiling 
over,  or  the  water  Avill  be  muddy.  The  slower  the  still  drops, 
the  clearer  and  stronger  will  be  the  water;  but  do  not  spend 
it  too  far.  The  next  day  bottle  it,  and  let  it  stand  three  or 
four  days,  to  take  off  the  fiery  taste  of  the  still.  Then  cork  it 
well,  and  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Milk  Water. 

TAKE  the  herbs  agrimony,  endive,  fumitory,  balm,  elder 
flowers,  white  nettles,  water  cresses,  bank  cresses,  and  sage, 
of  each  three  handsful;  eyebright,  brooklime,  and  celandine, 
of  each  two  handsful;  the  roses  of  yellow  dock,  red  madder, 
fennel,  horse-radish,  and  liquorice,  of  each  three  ounces ; 
stoned  raisins  one  pound;  nutmeg  sliced,  winter  bark,  tur- 
meric, and  galangal,of  each  two  drachms  ;  carroway  and  fennel 
seeds,  of  each  three  ounces,  and  one  gallon  of  milk.  Distil 
all  with  a  gentle  fire  in  one  day. 

Rose  Water. 

GATHER  red  roses  when  they  are  dry  and  full  blown  ;  pick 
off  the  leaves,  and  to  every  peck  put  a  quart  of  water.  Then 
put  them  into  a  cold  still,  and  make  a  slow  fire  under  it ;  for 
the  slower  it  is  distilled,  the  better  it  will  be.  Then  bottle  it, 
and  in  two  or  three  days'  time  cork  it. 

Cordial  Poppy  Water. 

TAKE  a  peck  of  poppies,  and  two  gallons  of  very  good 
brandy.  Put  them  together  in  a  wide-mouthed  glass,  let  them 
stand  forty-eight  hours,  and  then  strain  them  out.  Stone  a 
pound  of  raisins  of  the  sun,  and  take  an  ounce  of  coriander 
seeds,  an  ounce  of  sweet  fennel  seeds,  and  an  ounce  of  li- 
quorice sliced.  Bruise  them  all  together,  and  put  them  into 
the  brandy,  with  a  pound  of  good  powder  sugar.  Let  them 
stand  four  or  eight  weeks,  shaking  them  every  day  ;  then 
strain  it  off,  and  bottle  it  up  close. 

Penny-Royal  Water. 

GATHER  penny-royal  when  it  is  full  grown,  and  before  it  is 
in  blossom.  Then  fill  the  cold  still  with  it,  and  put  it  half 


342  CORDIAL  WATERS, 

full  of  water.  Make  a  moderate  fire  under  it,  and  distil  it  oft' 
cold.  Then  put  it  into  bottles,  and,  after  two  or  three  days, 
cork  it  up  close. 

Treacle  Water. 

TAKE  four  pounds  of  the  juice  of  green  walnuts;  rue,  car- 
duus,  marigolds,  and  balm,  of  each  three  pounds;  roots  of  but- 
ter-bur, half  a  pound;  roots  of  burdock,  one  pound  ;  angelica 
and  masterwort,  of  each  half  a  pound  ;  leaves  of  scordium,  six 
handsful;  Venice  treacle,  and  rnithridate,  of  each  half  a 
pound ;  old  Canary  wine,  two  pounds ;  white-wine  vinegar, 
six  pounds,  and  the  same  quantity  of  the  juice  of  lemons. 
Distil  all  these  in  an  alembic.  - 

Lady  Monmouth's  Treacle  Water. 

TAKE  three  ounces  of  hartshorn,  shaved,   and  boiled  in 
borage  water,  or  succory,  wood -sorrel,  or  respice  water,  or 
three  pints  of  any  of  these  waters  boiled  to  a  jelly,  and  put 
the  jelly  and  hartshorn  both  into  the  still.     Aad  a  pint  more 
of  these  waters  when  put  into  the  still.    Take  the  root  of  ele- 
campane, gentian,  cypress,  tuninsil,  of  each  an  ounce;  bless- 
ed thistle,  called  catduus,  and  angelica,  of  each  an  ounce; 
sorrel-roots,  two  ounces  ;  balm,  sweet  marjoram,  and  burnet, 
of  each  half  a  handful;  lily-convally  flowers,  borage,  bugloss, 
rosemary,  and  marigold  flowers,  of  each  two  ounces ;  citron 
rinds,  carduus  seeds,  citron  seeds,  alkermes  berries,  and  cochi- 
neal, each  of  these  an  ounce.     Prepare  all  these  simples  thus  : 
Gather  the  flowers  as  they  come  in  season,  and  put  them  in 
glasses  with  a  large  mouth.     Put  with  them  as  much  good 
sack  as  will  cover  them,  and  tie  up  the  glasses  close  with 
bladders  wet  in  the  sack,  with  a  cork  and  leather  upon  that, 
adding  more   flowers  and  sack.     Put  cochineal  into  a  pint 
bottle,  with  half  a  pint  of  sack,  and  tie  it  up  close  with  a 
bladder  under  the  cork,  and  another  on  the  top,  wet  with 
sack.   Then  cover  it  up  close  with  leather,  and  bury  it,  stand- 
ing upright  in  a  bed  of  hot  horse  dung,  nine  or  ten  days. 
Then  look  at  it,  and  if  it  is  dissolved,  take  it  out  of  the  dung, 
but  do  not  open  it  till  it  is  distilled.     Slice  all  the  roots,  beat 
the  seeds  and  berries,  and  put  them  into  another  glass.     Put 
no  more  sack  among  them  than  necessary ;  and  when  in- 
tended to  distil,  take  a  pound  of  the  best  Venice  treacle,  and 
dissolve  it  in  six  pints  of  the  best  white  wine,  and  three  of  red 
rose  water.     Put  all  the  ingredients  together,  stir  them,  and 
Hstil  them  irj  a  glass  still. 


CORDIAL  WATERS.  343 


Lavender  Water. 

PUT  a  quart  of  water  to  every  pound  of  lavender  neps,  put 
them  into  a  cold  still,  and  make  a  slow  fire  under  it.  Distil  it 
off  very  slowly,  and  put  it  into  a  pot  till  all  the  water  is 
distilled.  Then  clean  the  still  well  out,  and  put  the  lavender 
water  into  it,  and  distil  it  off  as  slowly  as  before.  Put  it  into 
bottles,  and  cork  it  well. 

Walnut  Water. 

BRUISE  well  in  a  large  mortar  a  peck  of  fine  green  wal- 
nuts, put  them  into  a  pan,  with  a  handful  of  balm  bruised, 
and  two  quarts  of  good  Frencb  brandy.  Cover  them  close, 
and  let  them  lie  three  davs.  Then  distil  them  in  a  cold  still ; 
and  from  this  quantity  draw  three  quarts. 

Aqua  Mirabilis. 

TAKE  cubebs,  cardamums,  galingal,  cloves,  mace,  nut- 
megs, and  cinnamon,  of  each  two  drachms,  and  bruise  them 
small.  Then  take  a  pint  of  the  juice  of  celandine,  half  a  pint 
of  the  juice  of  spearmint,  and  the  same  quantity  of  the  juice 
of  balm;  flowers  of  melilot,  cowslip,  rosemary,  borage,  bug- 
loss,  and  marigold,  of  each  three  drachms  ;  seeds  of  fennel, 
coriander,  and  carraway,  of  each  two  drachms  ;  two  quarts  of 
the  best  sack,  and  a  quart  of  white  wine;  brandy,  the  strong1- 
«st  angelica  water,  and  rose  water,  of  each  a  pint.  Bruise 
the  spices  and  seeds,  and  steep  them,  with  the  herbs  and 
flowers,  in  the  juices,  waters,  sack,  white  wine,  and  brandy, 
all  night.  In  the  morning,  distil  it  in  a  common  still  pasted 
up,  and  from  this  quantity  draw  off  a  gallon  at  least.  Sweeten 
it  to  the  taste  with  sugarcandy,  then  bottle  it  up,  and  keep  it 
in  a  cool  place. 

Blgck  Cherry  Water. 

BRUISE  six  pounds  of  black  cherries,  and  put  to  them  the 
tops  of  rosemary,  sweet  marjoram,  spearmint,  angelica,  balm, 
and  marigold  flowers,  of  each  a  handful;  dried  violets,  an 
ounce ;  anise  seeds,  and  sweet  fennel  seeds,  of  each  half  an 
ounce  bruised.  Cut  the  herbs  small,  mix  all  together,  and 
distil  them  off  in  a  cold  still. 

Surfeit  Water. 

TAKE  scurvygrass,  brooklime,  water  cresses,  Roman  worm- 
wood, rue,  mint,  balm,  sage,  and  clives,  of  each  one  handful; 
green  merery,  two  handsful ;  poppies,  if  freib,  half  a  peck ; 


844 


CORDIAL  WATERS. 


but  if  dry,  only  half  that  quantity  ;  cochineal  and  saffron, 
six  pennyworth  of  each  ;  anise  seeds,  carraway  seeds,  corian- 
der seeds,  and  cardamum  seeds,  of  each  an  ounce  ;  two 
ounces  of  scraped  liquorice,  a  pound  of  split  figs,  the  same 
quantity  of  r.tisins-  of  the  sun  stoned,  an  ounce  of  juniper 
berries  bruised,  an  ounce  of  beaten  nutmeg,  an  ounce  of  mace 
bruised,  and  the  same  of  sweet  fennel  seeds  also  bruised  ;  a 
few  flowers  of  rosemary,  marigold,  and  sage.  Put  all  these 
into  a  large  stone  jar,  and  put  to  them  three  gallons  of 
French  brandy.  Cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stand  near  the  fire 
for  three  weeks.  Stir  it  three  times  a  week,  and  be  sure  to 
keep  it  closely  stopped,  and  then  strain  it  off.  Bottie  the  li- 
quor, and  pour  on  the  ingredients  a  bottle  more  of  French 
brandy.  Let  it  stand  a  week,  stirring  it  once  a  day,  then 
distil  it  in  a  cold  still.  This  is  best  made  in  summer,  but  it 
may  be  made  at  any  time  of  the  year  in  London,  because  the 
ingredients  are  always  to  be  had  either  green  or  dry. 

Hysterical  Water. 

TAKE  betony  roots,  lovage,  and  seeds  of  wild  parsnip,  of 
each  two  ounces  ;  four  ounces  of  roots  of  single  peony, 
three  ounces  of  misletoe  of  the  oak,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
myrrh,  and  half  an  ounce  of  castor.  Beat  all  these  together, 
and  add  to  them  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  dry  millepedes.  Pour 
on  these  three  quarts  of  mugwort  water,  and  two  quarts  of 
brandy.  Let  them  stand  in  a  close  vessel  eight  days,  and  then 
distil  them  in  a  cold  still  pasted  up.  Draw  off  nine  pints  of 
water,  and  sweeten  it  to  the  taste.  Mix  all  together,  and 
bottle  it  up. 

Orange  or  Lemon  Water. 

PUT  three  gallons  of  brandy  and  two  quarts  of  sack  to  the 
outer  rinds  of  a  hundred  oranges  or  lemons,  and  let  them 
steep  in  it  one  night.  Tne  next  day  distil  them  in  a  cold 
still.  A  gallon  with  the  proportion  of  peels  will  be  enough 
for  one  still,  and  from  that  draw  off  better  than  three  quarts. 
Draw  it  off  till  it  begins  to  taste  sour.  Sweeten  it  to  the 
taste  with  double-refined  sugar,  and  mix  the  first,  second,  and 
third  runnings  together.  If  lemon  water,  it  should  be  per- 
fumed with  two  grains  of  ambergris,  and  one  of  musk.  Grind 
them  fine,  tie  them  in  a  rag,  and  let  it  hang  five  or  six  days 
iii  each  bottle  ;  or  put  into  them  three  or  four  drops  of  tinc- 
ture of  ambergris.  Be  sure  to  cotk  it  well. 


MALT  LIQUORS.  345 

Imperial  Water. 

TAKE  a  large  jar,  and  put  into  it  two  ounces  of  cream  of 
tartar,  with  the  juice  and  peels  of  two  lemons.  Pour  on  them 
seven  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  when  it  is  cold,  clear  it 
through  a  gauze  sieve,  sweeten  it  to  the  taste,  and  bottle  it. 
The  next  day  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Spirits  of  Wine. 

PUT  the  bottoms  of  strong  beer,  and  any  kind  of  wines, 
into  a  cold  still  about  three  parts  full.  Then  make  a  slow  h're 
under  it,  and  take  care  to  keep  it  moderate,  otherwise  it  will 
boil  over,  the  body  being  so  strong  that  it  will  rise  to  the  top 
of  the  still ;  and  the  slower  it  is  distilled,  the  stronger  thu 
spirit  will  be.  Put  it  into  an  earthen  pot  whilst  distilling, 
and  then  clean  the  still  well  out.  Put  the  spirit  into  it,  and 
distil  it  slowly  as  before,  till  it  is  strong  enough  to  burn  in  a 
lamp.  Bottle  it,  and  then  cork  it  well. 

Fever  Water. 

TAKE  six  ounces  of  Virginia  sn.ike  root,  four  ounces  of 
carduus  seeds  and  marigold  Howers,  and  twenty  green  wal- 
nuts; carduus  water,  and  poppy  water,  two  quarts  of  each, 
and  two  ounces  of  hartshorn.  Slice  the  walnuts,  and  steep 
all  in  the  waters  a  fortnight.  Then  add  to  it  an  ounce  of 
London  treacle,  and  distil  the  whole  in  an  alembic  pasted  up. 


CHAPTER  III. 


MALT  LIQUORS. 

1  HE  first  thing  to  be  considered,  is,  undoubtedly,  the  being 
provided  with  implements  proper  for  the  purpose,  and  of  these 
the  copper  appears  to  be  the  first  object. 

The  position  of  the  copper,  and  the  manner  of  setting  it, 
must  be  duly  considered,  as  much  depends  thereon.  The 
manner  proper  to  be  adopted  is,  to  divide  the  fire  by  a  stop  ; 
and,  if  the  door  and  draught  be  in  a  direct  line,  the  stop 
should  be  erected  from  the  middle  of  each  outline  of  the 
jgrating,and  parallel  with  the  centre  sides  of  the  copper.  By 


346  MALT  LIQUORS. 

this  method,  the  middle  of  the  fire  will  be  directly  under  the 
bottom  of  the  copper.  The  stop  is  composed  of  a  thin  wall, 
in  the  centre  of  the  right  and  left  sides  of  the  copper,  which 
is  to  ascend  half  the  height  of  the  copper.  On  the  top 
must  be  left  a  cavity  from  four  to  six  inches,  for  a  draught  for 
the  half  part  of  the  fire  which  is  next  the  door  of  the  cop- 
per ;  and  then  the  building  must  close  all  round  to  the  finish- 
ing at  the  top. 

By  this  mode  of  erecting  the  copper,  the  heat  will  commu- 
nicate from  the  outward  part  of  the  fire  round  the  outward 
half  of  the  copper,  through  the  cavity,  as  does  the  furthest 
part  of  the  flue,  which  also  contracts  a  conjunction  of  the 
whole,  and  causes  the  flame  gently  and  equally  round  the 
bottom  cf  the  copper. 

Many  are  the  advantages  derived  from  this  manner  of  pro- 
ceeding, and  the  fuel  saved  thereby  is  no  small  object  of  con- 
sideration. It  has  considerably  the  pre-eminence  of  wheel- 
draughts  ;  for  with  them,  if  there  be  not  particular  attendance 
given  to  the  hops,  by  stirring  them  down,  they  are  apt  to 
stick  to  the  sides  and  scorch ;  and  this  will  undoubtedly  very 
much  hurt  the  flavour  of  the  liquor.  The  copper  will  also, 
by  this  method,  last  many  years  more  than  it  would  by  the 
wheel  draught;  for  that  draws  with  so  much  violence,  that 
should  the  liquor  be  beneath  the  communication  of  the  fire, 
the  copper  will  thereby  be  liable  to  be  damaged :  whereas, 
by  the  other  contrivances,  you  may  boil  half  a  copper  full 
without  fear  of  injury.  This  must  be  allowed  to  be  a  great 
advantage,  as  in  all  brewing  it  is  impossible  to  draw  it  clean 
off  the  mash. 

In  order  to  give  greater  expedition  to  the  operation,  you 
may  sometimes  wish  to  extend  this  advantage  to  a  few  pails 
full,  which  is  done  without  prejudice  to  the  other;  for  when 
the  whole  of  the  other  is  clean  drawn  off,  the  copper  will 
accomplish  the  intended  purpose  next  morning,  which  will 
prevent  interfering  with  your  natural  rest;  for  by  running 
the  whole  night,  it  will  be  ready  to  boil  in  the  morning,  and 
be  fit  to  add  to  the  working  of  the  other  small  beer,  in  time 
to  render  the  whole  complete  for  tunning.  By  this  method, 
also,  you  are  not  under  the  necessity  of  having  the  copper 
burned,  which  is  a  very  troublesome  and  disagreeable  busi- 
ness, to  unfix  and  refix  large  cocks,  which  is  likewise  attended 
with  great  expense. 

Another  inconvenience  too  frequently  found  in  coppers  is, 
their  being  made  too  exact  to  their  intended  quantity ;  in 
consequence  of  which,  room  is  not  left  sufficient  to  boil  the 
liquor  in  with  any  degree  of  rapidity  or  safety,  which  must 
naturally  be  supposed  to  be  essential  points.  To  remedy  this 


MALT  LIQUORS.  347 

inconvenience,  let  your  carpenter  prepare  good  seasoned 
pieces  of  elm,  or  other  proper  wood,  and  shape  it  out  like  the 
felly  of  a  stage  waggon-wheel,  but  only  half  its  thickness,  and 
then  join  them  round  to  compose  the  dimensions  of  the  circle 
of  the  copper.  The  rim  of  the  copper,  which  generally 
turns  over  as  a  bearing  at  the  top,  may  be  beat  up,  and  that 
part  nailed  to  the  bottom  part  of  the  wood-work,  brushing 
between  the  wood-work  and  the  copper  a  cement  composed 
of  bullock's  blood  and  whiting,  mixed  only  to  the  thickness 
of  common  whitewash.  This  cement  will  prevent  any  leak, 
and  last  as  long  as  the  copper. 

Though  the  wood-work  may  be  done  with  great  safety  all 
round,  yet  it  will  be  necessary  to  take  this  precaution,  never 
to  let  the  wood-work  join  nearer  than  eight  inches  on  each 
side  of  the  copper  flue,  or  the  communication  of  the  heat. 
If  there  be  any  apprehension  of  its  penetrating  through  in 
that  direction,  you  must  then  nail  either  brass,  copper,  plate- 
iron,  or  sheet-lead,  whichever  can  be  most  conveniently  got- 
ten. Ir  your  neighbourhood  cannot  furnish  you  with  these 
matters,  there  wilt  probably  be  always  a  sufficient  supply  in 
your  house  of  decayed  pots,  pans,  or  kettles,  which  may  be 
beat  out  to  suit  your  purpose :  any  smith,  tinker,  or  carpenter, 
&c.  can  execute  such  a  piece  of  work,  observing  the  same 
cement,  which  will  be  as  good  and  as  firm  as  solder  in  other 
matters. 

This  work  is  of  great  support  and  ease  to  the  copper ;  and 
by  this  mode  you  can  also  increase  its  dimensions  from  three 
to  twelve  or  more  inches  in  the  wood-work,  which  will  add 
considerably  to  your  guage,  especially  in  large  coppers. 
This  method,  however,  is  recommended  only  where  stop- 
draughts  are  made,  use  of,  in  which  case  the  wood  may  be  ap- 
plied round  with  great  safety;  for  the  fires  of  those  never  burn 
so  furiously  that  the  least  damage  can  ensue.  For  the  raisino- 
of  other  coppers,  built  on  different  constructions,  brick,  stone, 
or  tarris  mortar  may  be  used. 

The  next  to  be  considered  are  the  coolers,  and  these  are 
things  of  no  small  consequence ;  for,  if  they  are  not  properly 
taken  care  of,  the  liquor,  Jby  a  seemingly  secret  and  unac- 
countable cause,  will  attract  a  disagreeable  twang.  This  often 
proceeds  from  \vet  having  been  infused  in  the  wood,  as  it  is 
sometimes  apt  to  lodge  in  the  crevices  of  old  coolers,  and  even 
infect  them  to  such  a  degree,  that  it  will  not  depart,  though 
many  washings  and  scaldings  are  applied.  One  cause  inci- 
dental to  this  evil  is  permitting  women  to  wash  in  a  brew- 
house,  which  ought  by  no  means  to  be  permitted,  where  any 
other  convenience  is  to  be  had  j  for  nothing  can  be  more  hurt- 
ful than  the  slops  of  soap-suds. 


SIS  MALT  LIQUORS. 

Be  careful,  in  preparing  the  coolers,  never  to  let  the  water 
stand  too  long  in  them,  as  it  will  soak  in,  and  soon  turn  pu- 
trid, when  the  stench  will  enter  the  wood,  and  render  them 
almost  incurable.  To  prevent  such  consequences,  as  well  as 
to  answer  good  purposes,  it  has  by  some  been  recommended, 
where  all  fixed  brewhouses  are  intended,  that  all  the  coolers 
should  be  leaded.  In  the  first  place  such  are  exceedingly 
cleanly;  and,  secondly,  it  expedites  the  cooling  of  part  of 
the  liquor  worts,  which  is  very  necessary  to  forward  it  for 
working,  as  well  as  afterwards  for  cooling  the  whole ;  lor 
evaporation  causes  considerably  more  waste  than  proper 
boiling.  Chymists  tell  us,  that  the  more  the  steam,  the  more 
the  strength  of  any  fluid  is  exhausted ;  as  is  further  proved 
by  the  still,  where  the  steam  being  confined,  the  chief  strength 
is  kept  in  ;  but,  being  exposed  to  the  air,  it  soon  evaporates. 

It  will  also  be  indispensably  necessary,  in  the  preparation  of 
your  utensils,  that  the  coolers  be  well  scoured  with  cold  water 
two  or  three  times  ;  cold  water  being  more  proper  than  hot  to 
effect  a  perfect  cleansing,  especially  if  they  are  in  a  bad  con- 
dition from  the  undiscovered  filth  that  may  be  in  the  crevices. 
The  application  of  hot  water  will  drive  the  infection  further  ; 
or  if  your  drink  be  let  into  the  coolers,  and  if  any  remain  in 
the  crevices,  as  before  mentioned,  the  heat  will  collect  the 
foulness,  and  render  the  whole  unwholesome. 

Some  pretended  judges  of  this  matter  absurdly  argue,  that 
ropiness  in  beer  proceeds  from  the  want  of  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  hops  to  dispel  the  glutinous  richness  arising  from  the 
superiority  of  malt,  which  is  a  manifest  mistake,  except  when 
it  is  too  much  boiled,  and  receives  bad  management  after- 
wards. Others  say,  that  it  is  by  applying  the  water  too  sharp, 
that  is,  too  hot  to  mash  with ;  but,  if  the  water  did  not  produce 
that  fault,  it  has  another  equally  as  dangerous ;  and  that  is, 
when  you  mash  with  water  so  exceedingly  hot,  it  is  liable  to 
set  the  malt;  which  is  clogging  it  up  to  such  a  degree,  that  it 
is  almost  impossible  to  get  it  to  run  off;  and  when  by  art 
you  have  accomplished  the  difficulty,  it  never  answers  your 
wishes  in  point  of  goodness. 

To  show,  by  an  experiment,  the  disagreements  of  heats  and 
colds,  which  must  be  applicable  in  the  case  of  brewing,  pro- 
ceed thus :  Take  a  pail  of  cold  water,  and  throw  it  on  a  quan- 
tity of  grains,  and  it  will  almost  immediately  become  ropy. 
There  are,  however,  some  brewers  so  curious  as  to  put  cold 
water  on  the  mash,  and  vainly  imagine  that  it  gets  out  the 
whole  of  the  strength  ;  but  this  is  a  ridiculous  notion,  which 
cannot  get  a  favourable  reception,  notwithstanding  they  say  it 
makes  excellent  toplash,  or  rather  rot-gut  small  beer. 

It  is  very  singular,  that  some  families  should  have  such  an 


MALT  LIQUORS.  34* 

aversion  to  the  thoughts  of  brewing,  which  probably  arises 
from  the  terrible  apprehensions  they  conceive  of  the  expense 
and  incumbrance  attending  the  fitting  up  of  a  brewhouse, 
which  is  an  ill-founded  conception,  and  ought  to  have  no 
weight  in  a  rational  ruind.  It  is  not  from  being  sufficiently 
competent  to  know  better,  that  people  set  their  faces  against 
brewing  ;  but  it  is  from  pride,  that  bane  of  all  good,  that  sets 
them  above  so  inconsiderable  a  thought,  as  they  deem  it,  and 
a  total  negligence  of  their  own  and  their  country's  welfare. 
A  whole  set  of  coolers,  properly  made,  may  be  removed  from 
house  to  house  with  great  facility  and  little  expense,  and 
with  less  injury  than  other  furniture,  provided  they  are  made 
according  to  the  following  directions: 

Let  strong  frames  be  constructed  for  each  cooler,  in  such  a 
manner,  that  they  may  be  unwedged  and  taken  asunder  when 
occasion  requires.  The  outside  frame  should  turn  up  pretty 
high,  that  is,  sufficiently  thick  and  strong,  to  cut  a  proper 
inlet  to  receive  wedges  for  the  purposes  hereafter  mentioned. 
Form  your  coolers,  which  are  to  consist  of  only  common 
planed  deal  boards,  and  lay  them  even  to  fit  on  this  frame, 
which,  from  a  projection  and  inlet,  you  can  set  the  side  to  the 
bottom,  and  it  will  be  necessary  that  the  inlet  should  be  a  Jit- 
tie  lower  than  where  the  bottom  rests.  By  these  means,  the 
wedges  will  have  full  power  to  tighten  the  sides  to  as  great  an 
extremity  as  a  hooped  barrel ;  and  these  wedges  should  be  in 
three  regular  directions  on  the  sides,  and  at  two  places  at  each 
end,  which  will  form  perfect  firmness.  If  the  coolers  are 
made  in  regular  sizes  under  each  other,  you  may  set  strong 
casters  in  mortices  under  the  legs,  by  which  means  you  can 
drive  them  under  each  other,  so  as  the  whole  to  go  under  the 
uppermost,  which  is  a  good  method  of  setting  them  out  of 
harm's  way.  By  this  method  of  construction,  the  chief  of 
your  brewing  utensils, the  copper  excepted,  may  be  unwedged, 
and  with  little  trouble  packed  into  a  waggon,  in  the  space  of 
two  hours,  and  set  up  in  another  brewhouse  in  the  like  pro- 
portionable time.  If  you  should  afterwards  choose  to  dispose 
of  the  materials,  that  may  be  done  without  loss,  as  the  boards 
will  not  be  damaged  by  either  pins,  nails,  or  screws.  When 
a  small  quantity,  such  as  a  hogshead  only,  is  required,  they 
may  be  made  like  drawers,  pulling  out  in  grooves,  and  resting 
on  tressels,  which  may  be  very  conveniently  put  out  of  dan- 
ger in  the  jnanner  before  directed. 

Be  particularly  careful  that  the  mash-tub  be  kept  perfectly 
clean  :  nor  must  the  grains  be  left  in  the  tub  any  longer  than 
the  day  after  browing,  lest  it  should  sour  the  tub  ;  for  if  there 
be  a  sour  smell  in  the  brewhouse  before  your  beer  is  tunned,  it 
will  be  apt  to  infect  your  liquor  and  worts. 


3  50  MALT  LIQUOKS.  , 

To  render  your  tub  the  more  perfect  and  lasting  you  should 
have  a  circular  piece  of  brass  or  copper,  to  inlay  and  line  the 
hole  where  the  penstaff  enters,  to  let  the  wort  run  off  into 
the  under  back.  The  penstaff  should  be  also  stoutly  ferrelled 
with  the  same  metal,  and  both  well  and  taperly  finished,  so 
that  you  can  place  it  properly.  By  this  method  you  may 
have  it  run  from  the  fineness  of  a  thread  to  the  fulness  of  an 
inch  tube,  &c.  first  dressing  your  muck-basket  with  straw, 
fern,  or  little  bushy  furze  without  stems,  six  or  eight  inches  in 
from  the  bottom  of  your  basket}  and  set  quite  perpendicularly 
over  the  whole,  with  the  penstaff  through  the  centre  of  the 
basket,  and  the  middle  of  the  furze  or  fern,  and  fastened  into 
the  hole  of  the  tub.  To  steady  it  properly,  you  must  have 
a  piece  of  iron  let  into  a  staple  fastened  to  the  tub,  at  the 
nearest  part  opposite  to  the  basket,  and  to  reach  nearly  to  it ; 
and  from  that  place  another  added  on  a  jointed  swivel,  or 
any  other  contrivance,  so  as  to  be  at  liberty  to  let  round  the 
basket  like  a  dog-collar,  and  to  enter  into  the  staple  formed 
in  the  same  to  pin  it  fast,  and  by  adding  a  half-circular  turn 
in  the  collar,  in  which  you  have  room  to  drive  in  a  wedge, 
which  will  keep  it  safe  down  to  the  bottom,  when  there  can 
be  no  danger  of  its  being  disturbed  by  stirring  the  mash, 
which  will  otherwise  sometimes  be  the  case.  When  you  let 
go,  you  will  raise  the  penstaff  to  your  own  degree  of  running, 
and  then  fasten  the  staff  by  the  help  of  two  wedges  tightened 
between  the  staff  and  the  basket. 

The  copper-work,  in  process  of  time,  like  every  thing 
else,  will  become  defective ;  and  when  this  is  the  case,  the 
following  very  simple  remedy  will  make  the  parts  as  perfect 
as  ever:  work  the  penstaff  in  the  brass  socket  with  emery 
and  water,  or  oil,  which  will  make  it  perhaps  more  perfect 
than  when  new,  and  many  instances  have  been  seen  of  this 
method  being  used  with  cocks  just  purchased. 

It  would  be  no  inconsiderable  addition  to  the  conveniency 
of  the  under  back,  to  have  a  piece  of  copper  to  line  the  whole 
in  the  bottom,  which  may  be  stopped  with  a  cloth  put  singly 
round  a  large  cork ;  and  when  it  is  fastened  down  for  the 
wort  to  run,  it  will  be  necessary  to  put  a  large  weight  on  the 
cork,  which  will  prevent  its  flying  up  by  the  heat.  When  the 
liquor  is  pumped  clean  out  of  the  back,  the  cloth  round  the 
cork  will  enable  you  to  take  out  the  cork  with  ease ;  and  there 
should  be  a  drain  below  the  under  back  to  carry  off  the  water, 
which  will  enable  you  to  wash  it  perfectly  clean  with  very 
little  trouble.  This  drain  should  be  made  with  a  clear  descent, 
so  that  no  damp  may  remain  under  the  back.  With  the  con- 
venience of  water  running  into  your  copper,  you  may  be  ena- 
bled to  work  that  water  in  a  double  quantity,  your  under 


MALT  LIQUORS.  351 

back  being  filled  by  the  means  of  letting  it  in  at  your  lei- 
sure, out  of  your  copper,  through  a  shoot  to  the  mash-tub, 
and  so  to  the  under  back.  Thus  you  will  have  a  reserve 
against  the  time  you  wish  to  fill  your  copper,  which  may  be 
completed  in  a  few  minutes,  by  pumping  while  the  upper 
cock  is  running.  Thus  much  for  the  principal  utensils  in 
brewing ;  but  be  careful  to  keep  every  thing  perfectly  clean. 

As  we  have  now  properly  explained  the  precautions  neces- 
sary to  be  taken  in  the  preparation  of  vessels,  we  shall  enter 
into  a  concise  detail  of  what  is  to  be  observed  in  the  course 
of  brewing. 

Having  your  utensils  scalded,  your  malt  ground,  your  cop- 
per boiling,  and  your  penstaff  well  set,  you  must  then  pro- 
ceed to  mash,  by  letting  a  sufficient  quantity  of  boiling  water 
into  your  tub,  in  which  it  must  stand  until  the  greater  part  of 
the  steam  is  gone  off,  or  until  you  can  see  your  own  shadow 
in  it.  It  will  then  be  necessary  that  one  person  should  pour 
the  malt  gently  in,  while  another  is  carefully  stirring  it ;  for 
it  is  as  necessary  that  as  much  care  should  be  observed  when 
the  mash  is  thin  as  when  it  is  thick.  This  being  effectually 
and  well  done,  and  having  a  sufficient  reserve  of  malt  to  cover 
the  mash,  to  prevent  evaporation,  you  may  cover  your  tub 
with  sacks,  &c.  and  leave  your  malt  three  hours  to  steep. 

Previous  to  your  letting  the  mash  run,  you  should  not  fail 
to  be  prepared  with  a  pail  to  catch  the  first  flush,  as  that  is 
generally  thickish  ;  and  another  pail  being  applied  while  you 
return  the  first  on  the  mash,  and  so  on  for  two  or  three  times, 
or  at  least  until  it  run  fine.  B}r  this  time  your  copper  should 
be  boiling,  and  a  convenient  tub  placed  close  to  your  mash- 
tub  ;  let  into  it  through  your  spout  half  the  quantity  of  boil- 
ing water  you  mean  to  use  for  drawing  off  your  best  wort. 
After  this,  you  must  instantly  turn  your  cock  to  fill  up  again, 
which  will  boil  in  due  time  with  cinders  or  coal-ashes.  Dur- 
ing such  time,  you  must  stop  the  mash  with  this  hot  water 
out  of  the  convenient  tub,  in  moderate  quantities,  every  eight 
or  ten  minutes,  until  the  whole  is  consumed ;  then  letting  off 
the  remaining  quantity,  which  will  be  boiling  hot,  to  the  finish- 
ing purpose  for  strong  beer. 

You  must  then  fill  your  copper  quite  full,  so  as  to  boil 
quickly  for  the  second  mash,  whether  you  intend  it  for  ale 
or  small  beer.  Being  thus  far  prepared,  let  off  the  remain- 
ing quantity  of  water  into  the  tub,  as  you  did  for  the  strong 
beer,  stopped  up  as  before ;  but  if  you  would  have  small 
beer  besides,  you  must  judge  it  accordingly,  by  boiling  a 
proper  quantity  off  in  due  time,  and  letting  it  into  the  tub 
as  before.  It  is  better  to  avoid  the  latter  article,  that  you 
may  entirely  draw  out  the  strength  for  the  ale. 


352  MALT  LIQUORS. 

Twenty-four  bushels  of  malt  will  make  two  hogsheads  of 
as  good  strong  beer  as  any  it)  England,  and  also  two  hogs- 
heads of  very  pretty  ale,  but  the  malt  should  consist  of  equal 
portions  of  brown,  amber,  and  pale.  This  strong  beer  should 
be  kept  two  or  three  years,  and  the  ale  never  less  than  one, 
before  tapped.  If  your  mash  be  oniv  for  one  hogshead,  it 
should  be  two  hours  in  running  off;  if  for  two  hogsheads,  two 
hours  and  a  half ;  and  for  any  greater  quantity,  three  hours: 
for  there  is  no  good  in  letting  it  be  too  long,  as  the  whole 
strength  is  extracted  by  the  frequent  stoppings. 

You  must  be  particular  in  the  time  of  steeping  your  mashes. 
Strong  beer  must  be  allowed  three  hours ;  ale  one  hour ; 
and,  if  you  draw  small  beer  after,  half  an  hour.  By  this 
mode  of  proceeding,  your  boilings  will  regularly  take  place 
of  each  other,  which  will  expedite  the  business,  by  prevent- 
ing loss  of  time.  Be  particularly  careful,  in  the  course  of 
each  mashing,  that  it  be  thoroughly  stirred  from  the  bottom, 
and  especially  round  the  muck  basket ;  for,  being  well 
shaken,  it  prevents  a  stagnation  of  the  whole  body  of  the 
mash;  and  were  this  last  process  omitted,  it  would  certainly 
fox  your  beer,  and  give  it  an  exceeding  bad  taste. 

In  preparing  for  boiling,  be  particularly  careful  to  put  the 
hops  in  with  the  first  wort,  or  it  will  char  in  a  few  minutes. 
As  soon  as  the  copper  is  full  enough,  a  good  fire  should  be 
made  under  it;  but  be  careful,  in  filling  it,  to  leave  room 
enough  for  boiling.  Quick  boiling  is  one  of  the  most  ne- 
cessary things  to  be  observed  ;  though  in  this  particular  there 
are  variety  of  opinions.  However,  there  is  perhaps  but  one 
good  method,  and  that  is  quick  boiling.  Great  caution  should 
be  observed  when  it  begins  to  swell  in  waves  in  tiie  copper; 
if  you  have  no  assistant,  be  particularly  attentive  to  its  mo- 
tions; and  being  provided  with  an  iron  rod  of  a  proper 
length,  crooked  at  one  end,  and  jagged  at  the  other,  then 
with  the  crook  you  are  enabled  to  open  the  furnace,  or  copper 
door,  and  vith  the  other  end  push  in  the  damper,  without 
stirring  from  your  station  ;  but  on  the  approach  of  the  first 
swell,  you  will  have  sufficient  time  to  proportionate  your 
fire,  as  care  should  be  taken  that  it  be  not  too  predominant. 
When  the  boil  is  properly  got  under,  you  may  t'.ien  add  a 
fire  that  will  boil  briskly,  and  there  may  be  a  variation  of  a 
few  minutes. 

With  respect  to  the  time  it  should  boil,  experienced  brewers 
proceed  in  this  manner:  They  take  a  clean  copper  bowl 
dish,  to  dip  out  some  of  the  liquor,  and  when  they  discover  a 
working,  and  the  hops  sinking,  they  conclude  it  to  be  suffi- 
ciently boiled.  This  is  sometimes  completed  in  thirty-five  or 
forty  minutes  j  but  this  rule  is  often  extended  five  or  ten  mi- 


MALT  LIQUORS.  353 

iiutes,  according  to  the  different  qualities  of  malt.  Long  and 
slow  boiling  is  very  pernicious,  as  well  as  wasting  the  liquor  ; 
for  the  slower  it  boils,  the  lower  it  drops,  and  singes  to  your 
copper ;  whereas  quick  boiling  has  a  contrary  effect.  Essence 
of  malt  is  extracted  by  length  of  boiling,-by  which  you  can 
make  it  to  the  thickness  of  honey  or  treacle,  so  that  a  small 
quantity  will  weigh  pounds.  In  some  parts  of  Yorkshire, 
they  value  their  liquor  for  its  great  strength,  by  its  affecting 
the  brain  for  two  or  three  days  after  intoxication.  'This  is  the 
effect  of  long  boiling  ;  for  in  that  county  they  boil  liquor  for 
three  hours ;  and  what  is  still  worse,  when  it  sinks  in  the  cop- 
per, from  the  waste  in  boiling,  they  every  now  and  then  add 
a  little  fresh  wort,  which,  without  doubt  must  tend  to  several 
stagnations,  productive  of  several  impurities. 

lour  liquor  being  properly  boiled,  be  sure  to  traverse  a 
small  quantity  quite  over  all  the  coolers,  so  as  to  get  a  proper 
quantity  cold  immediately  to  set  to  work;  but  if  the  airiness 
of  your  brewhouse  is  not  sufficient  to  expedite  a  quantity 
soon,  you  must  traverse  a  second  quantity  over  the  coolers, 
and  then  let  it  into  shallow  tubs.  Put  these  into  any  passage 
where  there  is  a  thorough  draught  of  air,  but  where  no  ram 
or  other  wet  can  get  communication  to  it.  Then  let  off  the 
quantity  of  two  baring  tubsful  from  the  first  over  the  second 
and  third  coolers,  which  may  be  soon  got  cold,  to  be  ready 
for  a  speedy  working,  and  then  the  remaining  part  that  is  in 
your  copper  may  be  quite  let  out  into  the  first  cooler.  In 
the  meantime,  mend  the  fire,  and  also  attend  to  the  hops,  tor 
make  a  clear  passage  through  the  strainer.  Having  pro- 
ceeded thus  far,  as  soon  as  the  liquor  is  done  running,  return 
to  your  business  of  pumping,  but  be  sure  to  remember, 
that,  when  you  have  got  four  or  five  pailsful,  you  then  return 
all  the  hops  into  the  copper  for  the  ale. 

By  this  time,  the  small  quantity  of  liquor  traversed  over 
your  coolers  being  sufficiently  cooled,  you  must  now  proceed 
to  set  your  liquor  to  work.  Take  four  quarts  of  barm,  and 
divide  half  of  it  into  small  vessels,  such  as  clean  bowls,  ba- 
sons, or  mugs,  adding  thereto  an  equal  quantity  of  wort, 
which  should  be  almost  cold.  As  soon  as  it  ferments  tc  the 
top  of  the  vessel,  put  it  into  two  pails,  and  when  that  works 
to  the  top,  put  one  into  a  baring  tub,  and  the  other  into  ano^ 
ther.  When  you  have  half  a  baring  tubful  together,  you 
may  put  the  like  quantity  to  each  of  them,  and  then  cover 
them  over,  until  it  comes  to  a  fine  cauliflower  head.  This 
may  be  perfectly  completed  in  three  hours,  and  then  put 
those  two  quantities  into  the  working  guile.  You  may  now 
add  as  much  wort  as  you  have  got  ready,  for  you  cannot  work 
it  too  cold  in  open  weather. 

A  A 


3  54  MALT  LIQUORS. 

If  you  brew  in  cold  frosty  weather,  keep  the  brewhouse 
warm,  but  never  add  hot  wort  to  keep  the  liquor  to  a  blood 
heat,  that  being  a  bad  maxim  ;  for  hot  wort  put  to  cold,  as 
well  as  cold  to  hot,  is  so  intemperate  in  its  nature,  that  it 
stagnates  the  proper  operation  of  the  barm. 

You  must  be  careful  that  your  barm  be  not  from  foxed 
beer,  that  is,  beer  heated  by  ill  management  in  its  working  ; 
for  in  that  case  it  is  likely  to  carry  with  it  the  contagion.  If 
your  barm  be  flat,  and  you  cannot  procure  that  which  is  new, 
the  method  of  recovering  its  working  is,  by  putting  to  it  a 
pint  of  warm  sweet  wort  of  your  first  letting  off,  the  heat  to 
be  of  half  the  degree  of  milk  warm.  Then  give  your  mug 
that  contains  it  a  shake,  and  it  will  soon  gather  strength  and 
be  fit  for  use.  Haifa  pound  of  good  hops  is  sufficient  for  a 
bushel  of  malt  for  strong  beer,  to  keep  for  four  years,  twelve 
bushels  to  the  hogshead. 

We  come  now  to  the  last  and  most  simple  operation  in  the 
business  of  brewing,  which  is  the  tunning.  The  general  me- 
thods of  doing  this  are,  either  by  having  it  carried  down  on 
men's  shoulders,  or  conveying  it  into  the  cellar  by  the  means 
of  leathern  pipes,  commonly  used  for  that  purpose. 

Your  casks  being  perfectly  clean,  sweet,  and  dry,  and  set 
on  the  stand  ready  to  receive  the  liquor,  first  skim  off  the  top 
barm,  then  proceed  to  fill  your  casks  quite  full,  and  imme- 
diately bung  and  peg  them  close.  Bore  a  hole  with  a  tap- 
borer  near  the  summit  of  the  stave,  at  the  same  distance  from 
the  top  as  the  lower  tap-hole  is  from  the  bottom,  for  working 
through  that  upper  hole,  which  is  a  clean  and  more  effectual 
method  than  working  it  over  the  cask;  for,  by  the  above 
method,  being  so  closely  confined,  it  soon  sets  itself  into  a 
convulsive  motion  of  working,  and  forces  itself  fine,  provided 
you  attend  to  the  filling  of  your  casks  five  or  six  times  a  day  : 
for  by  too  long  an  omission  it  begins  to  settle,  and  afterwards 
being  disturbed,  it  raises  a  sharp  fermentation,  which  pro- 
duces an  incessant  working  of  a  spurious  froth,  that  may 
continue  for  some  weeks,  and  after  all  give  your  beer  a  crank- 
ish  taste,  which  proper  attention  might  have  prevented. 

Having  thus  gone  through  the  principal  matters  in  the 
practical  part  of  brewing,  we  shall  now  proceed  to  instruct 
the  housekeeper  in  the  management  of  malt  liquors,  the  pro- 
per time  for  brewing,  and  shall  make  some  observations  on 
the  different  qualities  of  water,  malt  and  hops. 

The  month  of  March  is  generally  considered  as  one  of  the 
principal  seasons  for  brewing  malt  liquor  for  long  keeping  ; 
and  the  reason  is,  because  the  air  at  that  time  of  the  year  is 
temperate,  and  contributes  to  the  good  working  and  fermen- 
tation of  the  liquor,  which  principally  promotes  its  pre- 


MALT  LIQUORS.  355 

servation,  and  good  keeping.  Very  cold  as  well  as  very  hot 
weather,  prevents  the  free  fermentation  or  Avorking  of  li- 
quors ;  so  that,  if  you  brew  in  very  cold  weather,  unless  you 
use  some  means  to  warm  the  cellar  while  new  drink  is  work- 
ing, it  will  never  clear  itself  in  the  manner  you  would  wish; 
and  the  same  misfortune  will  arise,  if  in  very  hot  weather,  the 
cellar  be  not  put  into  a  temperate  state.  The  consequence  of 
all  which  will  be,  that  such  drink  will  be  muddy  and  sour, 
perhaps  beyond  all  recovery.  Such  misfortunes  often  hap- 
pen, even  in  the  proper  season  for  brewing,  and  that  owing 
to  the  badness  of  a  cellar,  for  when  they  are  dug  in  springy 
grounds,  or  are  subject  to  damps  in  winter,  the  liquor  will 
chill,  and  grow  flat  and  dead.  Where  cellars  are  of  this  na- 
ture, it  will  be  advisable  to  make  your  brewings  in  March, 
rather  than  in  October  ;  for  you  may  keep  such  cellars  tem- 
perate in  summer,  but  cannot  warm  them  in  winter.  Thus 
your  beer  brewed  in  March  will  have  due  time  to  settle  and 
adjust  itself  before  the  cold  can  materially  injure  it. 

It  is  advisable  to  build  your  cellars  for  Keeping  liquors  after 
such  a  manner,  that  no  external  air  can  get  into  them ;  for 
the  variation  of  the  air  abroad,  were  there  free  admission  of  it 
into  the  cellars,  would  cause  as  many  altercations  in  the  li- 
quor, and  would  thereby  keep  them  in  so  unsettled  a  state,  as 
to  render  them  unfit  for  drinking.  Some  people,  curious  in 
these  matters,  have  double  doors  to  their  cellars  with  a  view 
that  none  of  the  external  air  may  find  a  way  into  them,  and 
are  amply  repaid  for  their  care  and  expense  by  the  goodness 
of  their  liquor.  The  intent  of  the  double  door  is,  to  keep 
one  shut  while  the  other  is  open,  that  the  external  air  may 
be  excluded.  Such  cellars,  if  they  lie  dry  as  they  ought  to  do, 
are  said  to  be  cold  in  summer,  and  warm  in  winter;  though, 
in  reality,  they  are  constantly  the  same  in  point  of  tempera- 
ture. They  seem,  indeed,  cold  in  hot  weather,  but  that  is 
only  because  we  go  into  them  from  a  hotter  air  abroad;  and 
the  same  mode  of  reasoning  will  hold  good,  with  respect  to 
their  appearing  warmer  in  winter.  Hence  it  is  evident,  that 
they  are  only  cold  or  warm  comparatively,  as  the  air  we  come 
out  of  is  colder  or  warmer.  This  should  be  the  peculiar  pro- 
perty of  a  cellar,  if  we  expect  to  have  good  liquor  out  of  it. 
As  for  the  brewing  part  itself,  we  have  already  considered 
that  matter;  what  we  shall  therefore  further  principally  touch 
upon,  besides  speaking  of  cellaring,  will  relate  to  water,  malt, 
hops,  and  the  proper  keeping  of  liquors. 

To  speak  in  general,  the  best  water  is  river-water,  such  as 
is  soft,  and  has  partaken  of  the  air  and  sun ;  for  this  easily 
insinuates  itself  into  the  malt,  and  extracts  its  virtues.  On 
the  contrary,  hard  waters  astringe  and  bind  the  pores  of  th« 

A  A2 


356  MALT  LIQUORS. 

malt,  so  that  its  virtue  is  n6t  freely  communicated  to  the 
liquor.  It  is  a  rule  with  some,  that  all  water  that  will  mix 
with  soap  is  fit  for  brewing,  and  they  will  by  no  means  allow 
of  any  other;  and  it  has  been  more  than  once  experienced, 
that  where  the  same  quantity  of  malt  has  been  used  to  a  barrel 
of  river-water,  as  to  a  barrel  of  spring-water,  the  river-water 
brewing  has  excelled  the  other  in  strength  about  five  degrees 
in  twelve  months.  It  must  be  observed  likewise,  that  the 
malt  was  not  only  the  same  in  quantity  for  one  barrel  as  for 
the  other,  but  was  the  same  quality,  having  been  all  mea- 
sured from  the  same  heap.  The  hops  were  also  the  same, 
both  in  quality  and  quantity,  and  the  time  and  boiling  equal 
to  each.  They  were  worked  in  the  same  manner,  and  tunned 
and  kept  in  the  same  cellar.  Here  it  was  evident,  that  the 
only  difference  was  in  the  water,  and  yet  one  barrel  was  worth 
two  of  the  other. 

One  thing  has  long  puzzled  the  ablest  brewers,  and  that  is, 
when  several  gentlemen  in  the  same  town  have  employed  the 
same  brewer,  have  had  the  same  malt,  the  same  hops,  and 
the  same  water,  and  brewed  it  in  the  same  month,  and  broach- 
ed their  drink  at  the  same  time,  yet  one  has  had  beer  extremely 
fine,  strong,  and  well  tasted,  while  the  others  have  had  hardly 
any  worth  drinking.  There  may  be  three  reasons  for  this 
difference :  One  might  be  the  difference  of  weather,  which 
might  happen  at  the  several  brewings  in  this  month,  and 
make  an  alteration  in  the  working  of  the  liquors.  Secondly, 
that  the  yeast  or  barm  might  be  of  different  sorts,  or  in  dif- 
ferent states,  wherewith  these  liquors  were  worked  ;  and 
thirdly,  the  cellars  were  not  equally  good.  The  goodness 
of  such  drink  as  is  brewed  for  keeping,  in  a  great  measure  de- 
pends on  the  goodness  of  the  cellar  in  which  it  is  kept. 

The  Dorchester  beer,  which  is  so  much  admired,  is  for 
the  most  part  brewed  of  chalky  water,  which  is  almost  every 
where  in  that  county  ;  and  as  the  soil  is  generally  chalk,  the 
cellars,  being  dug  in  that  dry  soil,  contribute  to  the  good 
keeping  of  their  drink,  it  being  of  a  close  texture,  arid  of  a 
drying  quality,  so  as  to  dissipate  damps;  for  damp  cellars,  we 
find  by  experience,  are  injurious  to  the  keeping  of  liquors,  as 
well  as  destructive  to  the  casks.  A  constant  temperate  air 
digests  and  softens  malt  liquors,  so  that  they  taste  quite  smooth 
on  the  palate;  but  in  cellars  which  are  unequal,  by  letting 
in  heats  and  colds,  the  liquor  is  subject  to  grow  stale  and 
sharp.  For  this  reason  it  is  that  liquor  brewed  for  long  voy- 
ages at  sea.  should  be  perfectly  ripe  and  fine  before  it  be  ex- 
ported ;  for  when  it  has  had  sufficient  time  to  digest  in  the 
cask.,  and  is  racked  from  the  bottom,  or  lee,  it  will  bear  car- 
riage without  injury. 


MALT  LIQUORS.  S5f 

It  has  been  observed ,  that  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of 
liquor  which  is  enclosed  in  one  cask,  so  will  it  be  to  a  longer  or 
shorter  time  in  ripening.  A  vessel,  containing  two  hogsheads 
of  beer,  will  require  twice  as  much  time  to  perfect  itself  as 
one  of  a  hogshead  ;  and  it  is  found  by  experience,  that  no 
vessel  should  be  used  for  strong  beer,  which  is  intended  to  be 
kept,  less  than  a  hogshead,  as  one  of  that  quantity,  if  it  be  fit 
to  draw  it  in  a  year,  has  body  enough  to  support  it  two,  three 
or  four  years,  if  it  have  strength  oif  malt  and  hops  in  it,  as 
the  Dorchester  beer  has. 

One  great  piece  of  economy  is  the  good  management  of 
small  beer;  for  if  that  be  not  good,  the  drinkers  of  it  will  be 
feeble  in  summer-time,  incapable  of  strong  work,  and  will  be 
very  subject  to  distempers.  Besides,  when  the  beer  is  not 
good,  a  great  deal  will  be  thrown  away.  The  use  of  drink, 
as  well  as  meat,  is  to  nourish  the  body;  and  the  more  labour 
there  is  upon  any  one,  the  more  substantial  should  be  the 
diet.  In  harvest-time,  the  ill  effects  of  bad  beer  among  the 
workmen  are  visible  ;  and  in  great  families,  where  that  article 
has  not  been  attended  to,  the  apothecaries  bills  have  amounted 
to  twice  as  much  as  the  malt  would  have  come  to,  that  would 
have  kept  the  servants  in  strength  and  good  health.  Besides, 
good  wholesome  drink  is  seldom  thrown  away  by  servants, 
and  thus  the  sparing  of  a  little  malt  ends  in  the  loss  of  the 
master.  Where  there  is  good  cellaring,  therefore,  it  is  ad- 
visable to  brew  a  stock  of  small  beer  in  March  or  October, 
or  in  both  rnonths,  to  keep  in  hogsheads,  if  possible.  The 
beer  brewed  in  March  should  not  be  tapped  till  October,  nor 
that  brewed  in  October,  till  the  March  following  ;  having  this 
regard  to  the  quantity,  that  a  family,  of  the  same  number  of 
working  persons,  will  drink  a  third  more  in  summer  than  in 
winter. 

If  water  happen  to  be  of  a  hard  nature,  it  may  be  softened 
by  exposing  it  to  the  air  and  sun,  and  putting  into  it  some 
pieces  of  soft  chalk  to  infuse  ;  or,  when  the  water  is  set  on  to 
boil,  in  order  to  be  poured  on  the  malt,  put  into  it  a  quantity 
of  bran,  which  will  help  a  little  to  soften  it. 

One  thing  more  is  to  be  mentioned,  respecting  the  preser- 
vation of  strong  beer,  and  that  is,  when  once  the  vessel  is 
broached,  regard  ought  to  be  had  to  the  time  in  which  it  will 
be  expended;  for,  if  there  happen  to  be  a  quick  draught  for 
it,  then  it  will  last  good  to  the  very  bottom  ;  but,  if  there 
be  likely  to  be  but  a  slow  draught,  then  do  not  draw  off  quit?, 
half  before  you  bottle  it,  otherwise  your  beer  will  grow 
flat,  dead,  or  sour.  This  is  observed  very  much  among  the 
curious. 

We   shall  now  mention   two  or  three  particulars  relative 


358  MALT  LIQUORS. 

to  malt,  whjch  may  help  those  who  are  unacquainted  with 
brewing.  In  the  first  place,  the  general  distinction  between 
one  malt  and  another  is,  only  that  the  one  is  high  and  the  other 
low  dried.  That  which  we  call  high  dried  will,  when  brewed, 
produce  a  liquor  of  a  deep  brown  colour ;  and  the  other 
which  is  the  low  dried,  will  produce  a  liquor  of  a  pale  colour. 
The  first  js  dried  in  such  a  manner  as  may  be  said  rather  to 
be  scorched  than  dried,  and  is  far  less  wholesome  than  the 
pale  malt.  It  has  also  been  experienced  that  brown  malt,  al- 
though it  be  well  brewed,  will  sooner  turn  sharp  than  the  pale 
malt,  if  that  be  fairly  brewed. 

A  gentleman  of  good  experience  in  the  brewery  says,  that 
the  brown  malt  makes  the  best  drink  when  it  is  brewed  with  a 
coarse  river  water,  such  as  that  of  the  Thames  about  London : 
and  that  likewise  being  brewed  with  such  water,  it  makes 
very  good  ale  ;  but  that  it  will  not  keep  above  six  months 
without  turning  stale,  and  a  little  sharp,  even  though  he  allows 
fourteen  bushels  to  the  hogshead.  He  adds,  that  he  has 
tried  the  high-dried  malt  to  brew  beer  with  for  keeping,  and 
hopped  it  accordingly  and  yet  he  could  never  bren-  it  so  as  to 
drink  soft  and  mellow,  like  that  brewed  with  pale  malt.  There 
is  an  acid  quality  in  the  high-dried  malt,  which  occasions  that 
distemper  commonly  called  the  heart-burn  in  those  that  drink 
of  the  ale  or  beer  made  of  it. 

What  we  have  here  said  of  malt  is  meant  that  made  of 
barley  ;  for  wheat-malt,  pea-malt,  or  those  mixed  with  barley- 
malt,  though  they  produce  a  high-coloured  liquor,  will  keep 
many  years,  and  drink  soft  and  smooth,  yet  they  have  the 
mum  flavour. 

Some  people,  who  brew  with  high-dried  barley-malt,  put  a 
bag,  containing  about  three  pints  of  wheat,  into  every  hogs- 
head of  liquor,  and  that  has  fined  it,  and  made  it  drink  mel- 
low. Others  have  put  about  three  pints  of  wheat-malt  into  a 
hogshead,  which  has  produced  the  same  effect.  But  all  malt- 
liquors,  however  well  they  may  be  brewed,  may  be  spoiled 
by  bad  cellaring,  and  be  now  and  then  subject  to  ferment  in 
the  cask,  and  consequently  turn  thick  and  sour.  The  best 
way  to  help  this,  and  bring  the  liquor  to  itself,  is  to  open  the 
bung  of  the  cask  for  two  or  three  days,  and,  if  that  does  not 
stop  the  fermentation,  then  put  in  two  or  three  pounds  of 
oyster-shells,  washed, burned,  and  then  beaten  to  fine  powder. 
Stir  it  a  little,  and  it  will  presently  settle  .the  liquor,  make  it 
fine,  and  take  off  the  sharp  taste.  As  soon  as  that  is  done, 
draw  it  off  into  another  vessel,  and  put  a  small  bag  of  wheat 
or  wheat-malt  into  it,  as  before  directed,  or  in  proportion  to 
the  size  of  the  vessel.  Sometimes  such  fermentations  will 
Happen  in  liquor  by  change  of  weather,  if  it  be  in  a  bad 


MALT  LIQUORS.  359 

cellar,  and  will,  in  a  few  months,  fall  fine  of  itself,  and  grow 
mellow. 

High-dried  malt  should  not  be  used  in  brewing,  till  it  has 
been  ground  ten  days,  or  a  fortnight,  as  it  then  yields  much 
stronger  drink  than"  the  same  quantity  of  malt  just  ground; 
but  if  you  design  to  keep  malt  ground  some  time  before  you 
use  it,  you  must  take  care  to  keep  it  very  dry,  and  the  air  at 
that  time  must  also  be  dry.  As  for  pale  malt,  which  has  not 
partaken  so  much  of  the  fire  it  must  not  remain  ground  above 
a  week  before  you  use  it.  The  best  mode  of  using  malt,  is  to 
take  equal  portions  of  brown,  amber,  and  pale. 

As  for  hops,  the  newest  are  much  the  best,  though  they 
will  remain  very  good  two  years:  but  after  that  they  begin  to 
decay  and  loose  their  flavour,  unless  great  quantities  are  kept 
together,  in  which  case  they  will  keep  much  longer  good  than 
in  small  quantities.  These,  for  their  better  preservation, 
should  be  kept  in  a  very  dry  place ;  though  the  dealers  in. 
them  rather  choose  such  places  as  are  moderately  between  moist 
and  dry,  that  they  may  not  lose  any  of  their  weight.  Notice 
must  here  be  taken  of  a  method  which  has  been  used  to  stale 
and  decayed  hops,  to  make  them  recover  their  bitterness ; 
and  this  is,  to  unbag  them,  and  sprinkle  them  with  aloes  and 
water,  which,  when  it  has  proved  a  bad  hop  year,  has  spoiled 
great  quantities  of  malt  liquor  about  London  :  for  even  where 
the  water,  the  malt,  the  brewer,  and  the  cellars,  are  each 
good,  a  bad  hop  will  spoil  all.  Hence  it  is  evident,  that  every 
one  of  these  particulars  should  be  well  chosen  before  the 
brewing  is  set  about,  or  else  you  must  expect  but  a  bad  ac- 
count of  your  labour.  So  likewise  the  yeast  or  barm  which 
you  work  your  liquor  with,  must  be  well  considered,  or  a  good 
brewing  may  be  spoiled  by  that  alone. 

Remember  always  to  be  provided  with  every  material  be- 
fore you  begin  your  brewing,  as  the  wort  will  not  wait  for 
any  thing. 

It  is  a  practice  in  some  places  remote  from  town,  to  dip 
whisks  into  yeast,  then  beat  it  well,  and  so  hang  up  the  whisks 
with  the  yeast  in  them  to  dry  :  and  if  there  be  no  brewing  till 
two  months  afterwards,  the  beating  and  stirring  one  of  these 
neu-  whisks  in  new  wort  will  raise  a  working  or  a  fermentation 
in  it.  It  is  a  rule,  that  all  liquor  should  be  worked  well  in  the 
tun,  or  keel,  before  it  be  put  into  the  vessel,  otherwise  it 
will  not  easily  grow  fine.  Some  follow  the  rule  of  beating- 
down  the  yeast  pretty  often  while  it  is  in  the  tun,  and  keep  it 
there  working  for  two  or  three  d;iys,  observing  to  put  it  into 
the  vessel  just  when  the  yeast  begins  to  fall.  This  liquor  is 
commonly  very  fine,  whereas  that  which  is  put  into  the  vessel 
quickly  after  it  is  brewed,  will  not  be  fine  in  many  months. 


360  MALT  LIQUORS. 

With  respect  to  the  season  for  brewing  liquor  to  keep,  it  is 
to  be  observed,  that  if  the  cellars  be  subject  to  the  heat  of  the 
sun,  or  warm  summer  air,  it  will  be  best  to  brew  in  October, 
that  the  liquor  may  have  time  to  digest  before  the  warm  season 
comes  on ;  and  if  cellars  be  inclinable  to  damps,  and  to  re- 
ceive water,  the  best  time  will  be  to  brew  in  March.  Some 
experienced  brewers  always  choose  to  brew  with  the  pale  malt 
in  March,  and  the  brown  in  October ;  for  they  suppose,  that 
the  pale  malt  being  made  with  a  less  degree  of  fire  than  the 
other,  wants  the  summer  sun  to  ripen  it ;  and  so,  on  the  con- 
trary, the  brown  having  had  a  larger  share  of  the  fire  to  dry 
it,  is  more  capable  of  defending  itself  against  the  cold  of  the 
winter  season.  But  these  are  merely  matters  of  opinion. 

However  careful  you  may  have  been  in  attending  to  all  the 
preceding  particulars,  yet,  if  the  casks  be  not  in  good  order, 
still  the  brewing  may  be  spoiled.  New  casks  are  apt  to  give 
liquor  a  bad  taste,  if  they  be  not  well  scalded  and  seasoned 
several  days  successively  before  they  are  used.  As  to  old 
casks,  if  they  stand  any  time  out  of  use,  they  are  apt  to  grow 
musty. 

There  now  remains  little  more  to  be  said  concerning  the 
management   of  malt  liquor,  but   that   of  bottling   it.     The 
bottles  must  first  be  well  cleaned  and  dried  ;  for  wet  bottles 
will  make  the  liquor  turn  mouldy,  or  mothery,  as  they  call  it ; 
and  by  wet  bottles  a  great  deal  of  good  beer  has  been  spoiled. 
Though  the  bottles  be  clean  and  diy,  yet  if  the  corks  be  not 
new  and  sound,  the  liquor  will  be  still  liable  to  be  damaged  ; 
for,  if  the  air  can  get  into  the  bottles,  the  liquor  will  grow 
flat,  and  will  never  rise.     Many  who  flattered  themselves  that 
they  knew  how  to  be  saving,  by  using  old  corks  on  this  occa- 
sion, have  spoiled  as  much  liquor  as  stood  them  in  four  or 
five  pounds,  only  for  want  of  laying  out  three  or  four  shillings. 
If  bottles  are  corked  as  they  should  be,  it  will  be  difficult  to 
pull  out  the  cork  without  a  screw:  and  to  be  sure  to  draw  the 
cork  without  breaking,  the  screw  ought  to  go  through  the  cork, 
and  then  the  air  must  necessarily  find  a  passage  where  the 
screw  has  passed,  and  therefore  the  cork  must  be  good  for 
nothing.     If  a  cork  has  once  been  in  a  bottle,  though  it  has 
not  been  drawn  with  a  screw,  yet  that  cork  will  turn  musty 
as  soon  as  it  be  exposed  to  the  air,  and  will  communicate  its 
ill  flavour  to  the  bottle  in  which  it  is  next  put,  and  spoil  the 
liquor  that  way     In  the  choice  of  corks,  take  those  that  are 
soft  and  clear  from  specks. 

You  may  also  observe,  in  the  bottling  of  liquor,  that  the 
top  and  middle  of  the  hogshead  are  -the  strongest,  and  will 
•ooner  rise  in  the  bottles  than  the  bottom.  When  once  you 


MALT  LIQUORS.  361 

begin  to  bottle  a  vessel  of  any  liquor,  be  sure  not  to  leave  it 
till  all  is  completed,  otherwise  it  will  have  different  tastes. 

If  you  find  that  a  vessel  of  liquor  begins  to  grow  flat  whilst 
it  is  in  common  draught,  bottle  it,  and  into  every  bottle  put 
a  piece  of  loaf  sugar  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  which  will 
make  it  rise  and  come  to  itself;  and  to  forward  its  ripening, 
you  may  set  some  bottles  in  hay  in  a  warm  place ;  but  straw 
will  not  assist  its  ripening. 

Where  there  are  not  good  cellars,  holes  have  been  sunk  in 
the  ground,  and  large  oil  jars  put  into  them,  and  the  earth 
filled  close  about  the  sides.  One  of  these  jars  may  hold  about 
a  dozen  quart  bottles ;  and  will  keep  the  liquor  very  well ; 
but  the  tops  of  the  jars  must  be  kept  closely  covered  up.  In 
winter-time,  when  the  weather  is  frosty,  shut  up  all  the  lights 
or  windows  of  your  cellars,  and  cover  them  close  with  horse- 
dung,  or  horse-litter  ;  but  it  is  much  better  to  have  no  lights 
or  windows  at  all  to  any  cellar,  for  the  reasons  before  given. 

Should  you  have  an  opportunity  of  brewing  a  good  stock  of 
small  beer  in  March  and  October,  some  of  it  may  be  bottled 
at  six  months'  end,  putting  into  every  bottle  a  lump  of  loaf 
sugar.  This  will  be  a  very  refreshing  drink  in  the  summer. 
Or,  if  you  happen  to  brew  in  summer,  and  are  desirous  of 
brisk  small  beer,  as  soon  as  it  is  done  working,  bottle  it  as 
above  directed. 


APPENDIX. 


SECTION  I. 


CONSIDERATIONS  ON  CULINARY  POISONS. 

1  HOUGH  we  have  already,  in  different  parts  of  this  work, 
occasionally  reminded  the  housekeeper  and  cook  of  the  fatal 
consequences  attending  coppers  and  saucepans  not  being  pro- 
perly tinned,  yet  we  shall  here  enter  on  a  particular  inquiry 
into  the  nature  and  property  of  culinary  poisons,  for  the  infor- 
mation and  satisfaction  of  those  who  may  wish  to  have  a  more 
perfect  knowledge  of  such  important  matters. 

By  the  use  of  copper  vessels  for  dressing  our  food,  we  are 
daily  exposed  to  the  danger  of  poison  ;  and  even  the  very  air 
of  a  kitchen,  abounding  with  oleaginous  and  saline  particles, 
disposes  those  vessels  to  solution  before  they  are  used.  Cop- 
per, when  handled,  yields  an  offensive  smell ;  and,  if  touched 
with  the  tongue,  has  a  sharp  pungent  taste,  and  even  excites 
a  nausea.  Verdigrise  is  nothing  but  a  solution  of  this  metal 
by  vegetable  acids,  and  it  is  well  known,  that  a  very  small 
quantity  of  this  solution  will  produce  cholics,  vomitings,  into- 
lerable thirst,  universal  convulsions,  and  other  dangerous 
symptoms.  If  these  effects,  and  the  prodigious  divisibility  of 
this  metal,  be  considered,  there  can  be  no  doubt  of  its  being 
a  violent  and  subtle  poison.  Water,  by  standing  some  time 
in  a  copper  vessel,  becomes  impregnated  with  verdigrise,  as 
may  be  demonstrated  by  throwing  into  it  a  small  quantity  of 
any  volatile  alkali,  which  will  immediately  tinge  it  with  a 
paler  or  deeper  blue,  in  proportion  to  the  rust  contained  in 
the  water.  Vinegar,  apple-sauce,  greens,  oil,  grease,  butter, 
and  almost  every  other  kind  of  food,  will  extract  the  verdi- 
grise in  a  great  degree.  Some  people  imagine,  that  the  ill 
effects  of  copper  are  prevented  by  its  being  tinned,  which 
indeed  is  the  only  prevemative  in  that  case  ;  but  the  tin, 
which  adheres  to  the  copper,  is  so  extremely  thin,  that  it  is 
soon  penetrated  by  the  verdigrise,  which  insinuates  itself 
through  the  pores  of  that  metal,  and  appears  green  upon  the 
surface. 


-APPENDIX.  363 

Verdigrise,  is  one  of  the  most  violent  poisons  in  nature ; 
and  yet,  rather  than  quit  an  old  custom,  the  greater  part  of 
mankind  are  content  to  swallow  some  of  this  poison  every 
day.  Our  food  receives  its  quantity  of  poison  in  the  kitchen, 
by  the  use  of  copper  pans  and  dishes ;  the  brewer  mingles 
poison  in  your  beer,  by  boiling  it  in  copper;  salt  is  distributed 
to  the  people  from  copper  scales  covered  with  verdigrise ; 
our  pickles  are  rendered  green  by  infusion  of  copper ;  the 
pastry-cook  bakes  our  tarts  in  copper  patty-pans ;  but  con- 
fections and  syrups  have  greater  powers  of  destruction,  as 
they  are  set  over  a  fire  in  copper  vessels  which  have  not  been 
tinned,  and  the  verdigrise  is  plentifully  extracted  by  the  aci- 
dity of  the  composition.  After  all,  though  we  do  not  swallow 
death  in  a_  single  dose,  yet  it  is  certain  that  a  quantity  of  poi- 
son, however  small,  which  is  repeated  with  every  meal,  must 
produce  more  fatal  effects  than  is  generally  believed. 

Bell-metal  kettles  are  frequently  used  in  boiling  cucumbers 
for  pickling,  in  order  to  make  them  green  ;  but  this  is  a  prac- 
tice as  absurd  as  it  is  dangerous.  If  the  cucumbers  acquire 
any  additional  greenness  by  the  use  of  these  kettles,  they  can 
only  derive  it  from  the  copper,  of  which  they  are  made ; 
and  this  very  reason  ought  to  be  sufficient  to  overturn  so 
dangerous  a  practice. 

According  to  some  writers,  bell-metal  is  a  composition  of 
tin  and  copper,  or  pewter  and  copper,  in  the  proportion  of 
twenty  pounds  of  pewter,  or  twenty -three  pounds  of  tin,  to 
one  hundred  weight  of  copper.  According  to  others,  this 
metal  is  made  in  the  proportion  of  one  thousand  pounds  of 
copper  to  two  or  three  hundred  pounds  of  tin,  and  one  hun- 
dred and  fifty  pounds  of  brass.  Spoons,  and  other  kitchen 
utensils  are  fre  quently  made  of  a  mixed  metal,  called  alche- 
my, or,  as  it  is  vulgarly  pronounced,  ochimy.  The  rust  of 
this  metal,  as  well  as  that  of  the  former,  is  highly  pernicious. 

The  author  of  a  tract  entitled,  Serious  Reflections  attend- 
ing the  Use  of  Copper  Vessels,  published  in  London  in  1755, 
asserts,  that  the  great  frequency  of  palsies,  apoplexies,  mad- 
ness, and  all  the  frightful  train  of  nervous  disorders  which 
suddenly  attack  us,  without  our  being  able  to  account  for  the 
cause,  or  which  gradually  weaken  our  vital  faculties,  are  the 
pernicious  effects  of  this  poisonous  matter,  taken  into  the 
body  insensibly  with  our  victuals,  and  thereby  intermixed  with 
our  blood  and  juices. 

However  this  may  be,  certain  it  is,  that  there  have  been  in- 
numerable instances  of  the  pernicious  consequences  of  eating 
food  dressed  in  copper  vessels,  not  sufficiently  cleaned  from 
this  rust.  On  this  account  the  senate  of  Sweden,  about  the 
year  H53,  prohibited  copper  ressels,  and  ordered  that  noves- 


364-  APPENDIX. 

sels,  except  such  as  were  made  of  iron,  should  be  used  in  their 
fleets  and  armies.  But  if  copper  vessels  must  be  still  conti- 
nued, every  cook  and  good  housewife  should  be  particularly 
careful  in  keeping  them  clean  and  well  tinned,  and  should 
suffer  nothing  to  remain  in  them  longer  than  is  absolutely 
necessary  for  the  purposes  of  cookery. 

Lead  is  a  metal  easily  corroded,  especially  by  the  warm 
steams  of  acids,  such  as  vinegar,  cider,  lemon-juice,  Rhenish 
wine,  &c.  and  this  solution,  or  salt  of  lead,  is  a  slow  and  in- 
sidious, though  certain  poison.  The  glazing  of  all  our  com- 
mon brown  pottery  ware  is  either  lead  or  lead  ore  ;  if  black,  it 
is  a  lead  ore,  with  a  small  proportion  of  manganese,  which  is  a 
species  of  iron  ore ;  if  yellow,  the  glazing  is  lead  ore,  and  ap- 
pears yellowish  by  having  some  pipe  or  white  clay  under  it. 
The  colour  of  the  common  pottery  ware  is  red,  as  the  vessels 
are  made  of  the  same  clay  as  common  bricks.  These  vessels 
are  so  porous,  that  they  are  penetrated  by  all  salts  acid  or  al- 
kaline, and  are  unfit  for  retaining  any  saline  substances.  They 
are  improper,  though  too  often  used,  for  preserving  sour  fruits 
or  pickles.  The  glazing  of  such  vessels  is  corroded  by  the 
vinegar  :  for,  upon  evaporating  the  liquor,  a  quantity  of  the 
salt  of  lead  will  be  found  at  the  bottom.  A  sure  way  of  judg- 
ing whether  the  vinegar  or  other  acid,  have  dissolved  part  of 
the  glazing,  is  by  their  becoming  vapid,  or  losing  their  sharp- 
ness, and  acquiring  a  sweetish  taste  by  standing  in  them  for 
some  time,  in  which  case  the  contents  must  be  thrown  away 
as  pernicious. 

The  substance  of  the  pottery  ware,  commonly  called  Delft, 
the  best  being  made  at  Delft  in  Holland,  is  a  whitish  clay 
when  baked,  and  soft,  as  not  having  endured  a  great  heat  in 
baking,  The  glazing  is  a  composition  of  calcined  lead,  cal- 
cined tin,  sand,  some  coarse  alkaline  salt,  and  sandiver;  which 
fceing  run  into  a  white  glass,  the  white  colour  being  owing  to 
the  tin,  is  afterwards  ground  in  a  mill,  then  mixed  with  water, 
and  the  vessels,  after  oeing  baked  in  the  furnace,  are  dipped 
into  it,  and  put  again  into  the  furnace ;  by  which  means,  with 
a  small  degree  of  heat,  the  white  glass  runs  upon  the  vessels. 
This  glazing  is  exceedingly  soft,  and  easily  cracks.  What 
effects  acids  will  have  upon  it,  the  writer  of  these  consi- 
derations cannot  say ;  but  they  seem  to  be  improper  for  in- 
spissating the  juice  of  lemons,  oranges,  or  any  other  acid 
fruits. 

The  most  proper  vessels  for  these  purposes  are  porcelain  or 
China  ware,  the  substances  of  them  being  of  so  close  a  tex- 
ture, that  no  saline  or  other  liquor  can  penetrate  them.  The 
glazing,  which  is  likewise  made  of  the  substance  of  the  china, 
is  so  firm  and  close, that  no  salt  or  saline  substance  can  have  the 


APPENDIX.  365 

least  effect  upon  it.  It  must,  however,  be  observed,  that  this 
remark  is  applicable  only  to  the  porcelain  made  in  China ; 
for  some  species  of  the  European  manufactory  are  certainly 
glazed  with  a  fine  glass  of  lead,  &c. 

The  stone  ware,  commonly  called  Staffordshire  ware,  is  the 
next  to  china.  The  substance  of  these  vessels  is  a  composi- 
tion of  black  flint,  and  a  strong  clay,  that  bakes  white.  Their 
outsides  are  glazed,  by  throwing  into  the  furnace,  when  well 
heated,  common  or  sea  salt  decrepitated,  the  steam  or  acid 
of  which  flying  up  among  the  vessels,  vitrifies  the  outsides  of 
them,  and  gives  them  the  glazing.  This  stone  ware  does  not 
appear  to  be  injured  or  affected  by  any  kind  of  salts,  either 
acid  or  alkaline,  or  by  any  liquors,  hot  or  cold.  These  are 
therefore  extremely  proper  for  all  common  uses ;  but  they 
require  a  careful  management,  as  they  are  more  apt  to  crack 
with  any  sudden  heat,  than  china. 

Having  thus  considered  the  nature  of  copper  and  earthen 
utensils  for  the  use  of  the  kitchen,  we  shall  proceed  to  make 
tome  few  remarks  on  the  poisonous  qualities  of  mushrooms, 
hemlock,  and  laurel. 

Mushrooms  have  been  long  used  in  sauces,  in  ketchup,  and 
other  forms  of  cookery  ;  they  were  highly  esteemed  by  the 
Romans,  as  they  are  at  present  by  the  French,  Italians,  and 
other  nations.  Pliny  exclaims  against  the  luxury  of  his 
countrymen  in  this  article,  wonders  what  extraordinary  plea- 
sure there  can  be  in  eating  such  dangerous  food.  The  an- 
cient writers  on  the  Materia  Medica  seem  to  agree,  that  mush- 
rooms are  in  general  unwholesome ;  and  the  moderns,  Le- 
mery,  Allen,  Geoffroy,  Boerhaave,  Linnseus,  and  others,  con- 
cur in  the  same  opinion.  There  are  numerous  instances  on 
record  of  their  fatal  effects,  and  almost  all  authors  agree,  that 
they  are  fraught  with  poison. 

The  common  esculent  kinds,  if  eaten  too  freely,  frequently 
bring  on  heart-burns,  sicknesses,  vomitings,  diarrhoeas,  dy- 
senteries, and  other  dangerous  symptoms.  It  is  therefore  to 
be  wished,  that  they  were  banished  from  the  table;  but,  if  the 
palate  must  be  indulged  in  these  treacherous  gratifications, 
or,  as  Seneca  calls  them,  this  voluptuous  poison,  it  is  neces- 
sary that  those,  who  are  employed  in  collecting  them,  should 
be  extremely  cautious,  lest  they  should  collect  such  as  are  ab- 
solutely pernicious  ;  which,  considering  to  whose  care  this  is 
generally  committed,  may,  and  undoubtedly  frequently  has 
happened.  The  eatable  mushrooms  at  first  appear  of  a  roun- 
dish form,  like  a  button  ;  the  upper  part  and  the  stalk  are  very 
thin  ;  the  under  part  is  of  a  livid  flesh  colour;  but  the  fleshy 
part,  when  broken,  is  very  white.  When  these  are  suffered 


366  APPENDIX. 

to  remain  undisturbed,  they  will  grow  to  a  large  size,  and  ex 
pand  themselves  almost  to  a  flatness,  and  the  red  part  under- 
neath will  change  to  a  dark  colour. 

Small  Hemlock,  though  it  seems  not  to  be  of  so  virulent  a 
nature  as  the  larger  hemlock,  yet  Boerhaave  places  it  among 
the  vegetable  poisons,  in  his  Institutes ;  and  in  his  History  of 
Plants,  he  produces  an  instance  of  its  pernicious  effects.  It 
is  therefore  necessary  to  guard  against  it,  in  collecting  herbs 
for  sallads  and  other  purposes.  Attend  therefore  to  the  fol- 
lowing description : 

The  first  leaves  are  divided  into  numerous  small  parts, 
which  are  of  a  pale  green,  oval,  pointed,  and  deeply  indent- 
ed. The  stalk  is  slender,  upright,  round,  striated,  and  about 
a  yard  high.  The  flowers  are  white,  growing  at  the  tops  of 
the  branches  in  little  umbels.  It  is  an  annual  plant,  common 
in  orchards  and  kitchen  gardens,  and  flowers  in  June  and 
July.  This  plant  has  been  often  mistaken  for  parsley,  and 
from  thence  it  has  received  the  name  of  fool's  parsley. 

The  water  distilled  from  the  leaves  of  the  common  laurel, 
has  been  frequently  mixed  with  brandy,  and  other  spirituous 
liquors,  in  order  to  give  them  the  flavour  of  ratafia;  and  the 
leaves  are  often  used  in  cookery,  to  communicate  the  same 
kind  of  taste  to  creams,  custards,  puddings,  and  some  sorts  of 
sweetmeats.  But  in  the  year  1728,  an  account  of  two  women 
dying  suddenly  in  Dublin,  after  drinking  some  of  the  com- 
mon distilled  laurel  water,  gave  rise  to  several  experiments, 
made  upon  dogs,  with  the  distilled  water,  and  with  the  infu- 
sion of  the  leaves  of  the  common  laurel,  communicated  by 
Dr.  Madden,  Physician  at  Dublin,  to  the  Royal  Society  in 
London  ;  and  afterwards  repeated,  in  the  year  1T3 1,  and  con- 
firmed by  Dr.  Mortimer,  by  which  it  appeared,  that  both  the 
water  and  the  infusion  brought  on  convulsions,  palsy,  and 
death. 

The  laurel  of  the  ancients,  or  the  bay,  is,  on  the  contrary, 
of  a  salutary  nature,  and  of  use  in  several  disorders  ;  but  the 
common  laurel  is  a  plant  of  a  very  destructive  kind,  and,  taken 
in  a  large  quantity,  is  a  most  formidable  poison.  However, 
if  it  be  administered  with  proper  caution,  and  in  small  pro- 
portion, the  leaves  of  the  plant  are  generally  thought  to  be 
innocent ;  and  therefore,  for  kitchen  purposes,  as  the  flavour- 
ing of  custards,  and  such  like,  the  use,  in  guarded  and  com- 
mon moderation,  may  be  continued  in  perfect  safety.  The 
bitter  parts  of  the  plants,  in  which  all  the  noxious  properties 
are  supposed  to  reside,  are  determined  to  be  the  same  in  qua- 
lity, and  not  sensibly  different  in  degree,  from  the  bitter  al- 
mond, or  from  the  kernels  of  any  of  the  stoned  fruits  Lin- 


APPENDIX.  367 

Maeus  says,  that  in  Holland,  an  infusion  of  this  kind  of  laurel  is 
used  in  the  practice  of  the  healing  art.  Miller  also  says,  that 
laurel  leaves  are  perfectly  innocent.  A  nice  attention,  how- 
«ver,  is  certainly  necessary  in  the  use  of  them. 


SECTION  II. 


CONSIDERATIONS  ON  THE  ADULTERATION 
OF  BREAD  AND  FLOUR. 

IN  the  adulteration  of  flour,  mealmen  and  bakers  have  been 
known  to  use  bean-meal,  chalk,  whiting,  slacked  lime,  alum, 
and  even  ashes  of  bones.  The  first,  bean-flour,  is  perfectly 
innocent,  and  affords  a  nourishment  equal  to  that  of  wheat ; 
but  there  is  a  roughness  in  bean-flour,  and  its  colour  is  dusky. 
To  remove  these  defects,  chalk  is  added  to  whiten  it ;  alum  to 
give  the  whole  compound  that  consistence  which  is  necessary 
to  make  it  knead  well  with  the  dough ;  and  jalap  to  take  off 
the  astringency.  Some  people  may  suppose,  that  these  horrid 
iniquities  are  only  imaginary,  or  at  least  exaggerated,  and  that 
such  mixtures  must  be  discoverable  even  by  the  most  ordi- 
nary taste ;  but,  as  some  adulterations  of  this  nature,  have 
certainly  been  practised,  the  following  experiments  may  serve 
to  gratify  curiosity,  or  discover  frauds,  where  any  such  have 
been  committed. 

To  detect  the  adulteration  of  flour  with  whiting  or  chalk, 
mix  it  with  some  juice  of  lemon  or  good  vinegar.  If  the  flour 
be  pure,  they  will  remain  together  at  rest;  but  if  there  be  a 
mixture  of  whiting  or  chalk,  a  fermentation,  like  the  working 
of  yeast,  will  ensue.  The  adulterated  meal  is  whiter  and 
heavier  than  the  good;  the  quantity  that  an  ordinary  tea-dish 
will  contain,  has  been  found  to  weigh  more  than  the  same 
quantity  of  genuine  flour,  by  four  drachms  and  nineteen 
grains  Troy. 

The  regular  method  of  detecting  these  frauds  in  bread  is 
thus:  cut  the  crumb  of  a  loaf  into  very  thin  slices;  break 
them,  but  not  into  very  small  pieces,  and  put  them  into  a  glass 
cucurbit,  with  a  large  quantity  of  water.  Set  this,  without 
shaking,  in  a  sand  furnace,  and  let  it  stand,  with  a  moderate 
warmth,  twenty-four  hours.  The  crumb  of  the  bread  will,  in 
this  time,  soften  in  all  its  parts,  and  the  ingredients  will  sepa- 
rate from  it.  The  alum  will  dissolve  in  the  water,  and  may  be 


368  APPENDIX. 

extracted  from  it  in  the  usual  way.  The  jalap,  if  any  has  been 
used,  will  swim  upon  the  top  in  a  coarse  film  ;  and  the  other 
ingredients,  being  heavy,  will  sink  to  the  bottom.  This  is  the 
best  and  most  regular  method  of  finding  the  deceit ;  but  as 
cucurbites  and  sand  furnaces  are  not  at  hand  in  private  fami- 
lies, the  following  is  a  more  familiar  method :  Slice  the  crumb 
of  a  loaf  as  before  directed,  and  put  it  with  a  great  deal  of 
water  into  a  large  earthen  pipkin.  Set  this  over  a  gentle  fire, 
and  keep  it  a  long  time  moderately  hot.  Then  pour  off  the 
pap,  and  the  bone  ashes,  or  other  ingredients,  will  be  found 
at  the  bottom. 

Having  spoken  thus  much  of  the  adulteration  of  wbeat  and 
bread,  and  as  the  business  of  baking  often  falls  under  the  in- 
spection of  the  housekeeper,  particularly  in  country  resi- 
dences, we  shall  here  give  instructions  for  that  purpose, 

To  make  White  Bread  in  the  London  Manner. 

PUT  a  bushel  of  the  finest  well-dressed  flour  in  at  one  end 
of  the  kneading  trough ;  then  take  a  gallon  of  water,  which 
bakers  call  liquor,  and  some  yeast :  stir  it  into  the  liquor  till 
it  looks  of  a  good  brown  colour,  and  begins  to  curdle.  Strain 
and  mix  it  with  the  flour  till  it  is  about  the  thickness  of  a 
seed  cake,  then  cover  it  with  the  lid  of  the  trough,  and  let  it 
stand  three  hours.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  fall,  take  a  gallon 
more  of  liquor,  weigh  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  salt,  and 
with  the  hand  mix  it  well  with  water.  Strain  it,  and  with  this 
liquor  make  the  dough  of  a  moderate  thickness,  fit  to  make 
up  into  loaves.  Then  cover  it  again  with  the  lid,  and  let  it 
stand  three  hours  more.  In  the  mean  time  put  the  wood  into 
the  oven,  which  will  require  two  hours  heating.  Then  clear 
the  oven,  and  begin  to  make  the  bread;  put  it  in,  close  up 
the  oven,  and  three  hours  will  bake  it.  When  once  the  bread 
is  put  in,  the  oven  must  not  be  opened  till  the  bread  is  baked; 
and  take  care  in  summer  that  the  water  is  milk  warm,  and  in 
winter  as  hot  as  the  finger  will  bear.  All  flour  does  not  re- 
quire the  same  quantity  of  water ;  but  that  experience  will 
teach  in  two  or  three  times  making. 

To  make  Leaven  Bread. 

BREAD  made  without  barm,  must  be  by  the  assistance  of 
leaven.  Take  a  lump  of  dough,  about  two  pounds  of  the 
last  making,  which  has  been  raised  by  barm.  Keep  it  in  a 
wooden  vessel,  cover  it  well  with  flour,  and  this  will  be  the 
leaven.  The  night  before  baking,  put  the  leaven  to  a  peck 
of  flour,  and  work  them  well  together  with  warm  water.  Let 
it  lie  in  a  dry  wooden  vessel,  well  covered  with  a  linen  cloth 


APPENDIX.  369 

and  blanket,  and  keep  it  in  a  warm  place.  This  dough,  kept 
warm,  will  rise  again  next  morning,  and  will  be  sufficient  to 
mix  with  two  or  three  bushels  of  flour,  being  mixed  up  with 
warm  water  and  a  little  salt.  When  it  is  well  "  orked  up,  and 
thoroughly  mixed  with  the  flour,  let  it  be  well  covered  with 
the  linen  and  blanket,  until  it  begins  to  rise.  Then  knead  it 
well,  and  work  it  up  into  bricks  or  loaves,  making  the  loaves 
broa.i,  and  not  so  thick  and  high  as  is  frequently  done,  by 
which  means  the  bread  will  be  better  baked.  Always  keep 
two  or  more  pounds  of  the  dough  of  the  last  baking,  well  co- 
vered with  flour,  to  make  leaven  to  serve  from  one  baking  day 
to  another;  and  t!  e  more  leaven  put  to  the  flour,  the  lighter 
the  bread  will  be.  The  fresher  the  leaven,  the  less  sour  will 
be  the  bread. 

To  make  French  Bread. 

PUT  a  pint  of  milk  into  three  quarts  of  water;  in  winter, 
let  it  be  scalding  hot,  but  only  little  more  than  milk-warm  in 
summer.     Having  put  in  salt  sufficient  to  the  taste,  take  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  good  ale  yeast ;  but  take  care  that  it  is  not 
bitter.     Lay  it  in  a  gallon  of  water  the  night  before  ;  pour  it 
off  the  water,  stir  the  yeast  into  the  milk  and  water,  and  then 
with  the  hand  break  in  a  little  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter.     Work  it  well  till  it  is  dissolved,  then  beat  up  two 
eggs  in  a  bason,  and  stir  them  in.     Take  about  a  peck  and  a 
half  of  flour,  and  mix   it  with   the  liquor.     In  winter,  the 
dough  must  be  made  pretty  stiff,  but  more  slack  in  summer ; 
to  use  a  little  more  or  less  flour,  according  to  the  stiffness  of 
the  dough  ;  but  mind  to  mix  it  well,  and  the  less  it  is  worked, 
the  better.     Stir  the  liquor  into  the  flour  as  for  pie  crust;  and 
after  the  dough  is  made,  cover  it  with  a  cloth,  and  let  it  lie  to 
rise  while  the  oven  is  heating.     When  they  have  lain  in  a 
quick  oven  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  turn  them  on  the  other 
side,  and  let  them  lie  about  a  quarter  longer.     Then  take 
them  out,  and  chip  all  the  French  bread  with  a  knife,  which 
will  be  better  than  rasping  it,  making  it  look  spongy,  and  of 
a  fine  yellow;  whereas  the  rasping  takes  off  that  fine  colour, 
and  makes  it  look  too  smooth. 

To  make  Oat-Cakes  and  Muffins. 

TAKE  a  pint  and  a  half  of  good  ale  yeast  from  pale  malt, 
because  that  is  whitest.  Let  the  yeast  lie  in  water  all  night, 
the  next  day  pour  off  the  water  clear,  make  two  gallons  of 
water  just  milk-warm,  but  not  so  hot  as  to  scald  the  yeast, 
and  two  ounces  of  salt.  Mix  the  water,  yeast,  and  salt  well 
together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  strain  it,  and  with  a 
bushel  of  Hertfordshire  white  flour  mix  up  the  dough  as  light 

B  E 


370  APPENDIX. 

as  possible,  and  let  it  lie  in  the  trough  an  hour  to  rise.  Then 
roll  it  with  the  hand,  and  pull  it  into  little  pieces  about  as  big 
as  a  large  walnut.  Roll  them  with  the  hand  in  the  shape  of  a 
ball,  lay  them  on  a  table,  and  as  fast  as  they  are  done,  lay  a 
piece  of  flannel  over  them,  and  be  sure  to  keep  the  dough  co- 
vered with  flannel.  When  all  the  dough  is  rolled  out,  begin 
to  bake  the  first  made,  and  by  that  time  they  will  be  spread 
out  in  a  right  form.  Lay  them  on  the  iron,  and  as  soon  as 
one  side  is  sufficiently  coloured,  turn  them  on  the  other  ;  but 
take  great  care  that  they  do  not  burn,  or  be  too  much  disco- 
loured. If  the  iron  is  too  hot,  as  will  sometimes  be  the  case, 
put  a  brick-bat  or  two  in  the  middle  of  the  fire  to  slacken 
the  heat.  Here  it  is  undoubtedly  necessary  to  mention  in 
what  manner  the  thing  baked  on  must  be  made.  Build  a 
place  as  if  going  to  set  a  copper;  but  instead  of  a  copper, 
place  a  piece  of  iron  all  over  the  top,  in  form  just  the  same 
as  the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot,  and  make  the  fire  underneath 
with  coal,  as  in  a  copper.  Observe,  that  muffins  are  made 
the  same  way,  with  this  difference  only,  that,  when  pulled 
to  pieces,  roll  them  in  a  good  deal  of  flour,  and  with  a  roll- 
ing pin  roll  them  thin.  Then  cover  them  with  a  piece  of 
flannel,  and  they  will  rise  to  a  proper  thickness  ;  but,  if  too 
big  or  too  little,  roll  the  dough  accordingly.  Muffins  must  not 
be  the  least  discoloured. 

To  "preserve  Yeast. 

TAKE  a  quantity  of  it,  stir  and  work  it  well  with  a  whisk 
until  it  becomes  liquid  and  thin.  Then  get  a  large  wooden 
platter,  cooler,  or  tub,  clean  and  dry,  and  with  a  soft  brusli 
lay  a  thin  layer  of  yeast  on  the  tub,  and  turn  the  mouth  down- 
wards, that  no  dust  may  fall  upon  it,  but  so  that  the  air  may 
get  under  to  dry  it.  When  that  coat  is  very  dry,  then  lay  on 
another,  and  so  on  till  two  or  three  inches  thick,  always  taking 
care  that  the  yeast  is  very  dry  in  the  tub  before  laying  any 
more  on,  and  this  will  keep  good  for  several  months.  To  use 
this  yeast,  cut  a  piece  off,  and  lay  it  into  warm  water  ;  stir  it 
together,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  If  for  brewing,  take  a  large 
handful  of  birch  tied  together,  dip  it  into  the  yeast,  and  hang 
it  up  to  dry.  In  this  manner  do  any  number;  but  take  care 
no  dust  comes  to  it.  When  the  beer  is  fit  to  set  to  work,  throw 
in  one  of  these,  and  it  will  make  it  work  as  well  as  yeast. 

To  make  Yeast. 

Mix  two  quarts  of  soft  water  with  wheat  flour,  to  the  con- 
sistence of  thick  gruel,  or  soft  hasty  pudding  ;  boiled  gently 
for  half  an  hour,  and  when  almost  cold,  stir  it  into  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  and  four  spoonsful  of  good  yeast.  Put  it  into  a  large 


APPENDIX.  311 

jug,  or  earthen  vessel  with  a  narrow  top,  and  place  it  before 
the  fire,  so  that  it  may  by  a  moderate  heat  ferment.  The  fer- 
mentation will  throw  up  a  thin  liquor,  which  pour  off  and  throw- 
away  ;  the  remainder  may  be  used  instead  of  common  yeast, 
and  four  spoonsful  will  make  a  fresh  quantity  as  before :  keep 
it  in  a  bottle  in  a  cool  place. 


SECTION  III. 

PROPER  NOURISHMENT  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Mutton  Broth. 

\  AKE  the  fat  off  a  pound  of  loin  of  mutton,  and  put  the  learr 
into  a  quart  of  water;  skim  it  well  as  it  boils,  and  put  in  a 
piece  of  the  upper  crust  of  bread,  with  a  large  blade  of  mace. 
Having  covered  it  up  close,  let  it  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour, 
and  then  pour  the  broth  clear  off  without  stirring  it :  skim  off 
the  fat,  season  it  with  a  little  salt,  and  the  meat  will  be  in  a  pro- 
per state  to  be  eaten.  Some  boil  turnips  with  the  meat :  but 
this  should  not  be  done,  as  they  ought  to  be  boiled  by  them- 
selves. 

Beef  or  mutton  broth  for  very  weak  people,  who  cannot 
digest  much  nourishment:  Take  a  pound  of  beef  or  mutton, 
or  both  together,  and  put  to  each  pound  a  quart  of  water. 
Skin  the  meat  and  take  off  the  fat,  cut  it  into  little  pieces,  and 
let  it  boil  till  it  comes  to  a  quarter  of  a  pint.  Then  season  it 
with  a  very  little  salt,  skim  off  all  the  fat,  and  give  the  sick  per- 
son a  spoonful  of  it  at  a  time.  If  the  sick  person  be  very  weak, 
even  half  a  spoonful  will  be  enough  at  once;  while  to  others 
who  are  stronger,  a  tea-cupful  may  be  given  at  a  time  ;  in- 
deed the  whole  is,  properly  to  observe  what  quantity  the 
stomach  of  the  sick  person  will  bear. 

Beef  Broth. 

TAKE  off  the  fat  and  skin  of  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  and  cut 
it  into  pieces.  Then  put  it  into  a  gallon  of  water,  with  the 
under  crust  of  a  penny  loaf,  and  a  very  little  salt.  Let  it  boil 
till  it  is  reduced  to  two  quarts,  then  strain  it  off,  and  it  will 
be  very  nourishing. 

Beef  Tea.        > 

TAKE  a  piece  of  lean  beef,  cut  it  cross  and  cross,  and  then 

pour  on  it  scalding  water.     Cover  it  up  close,  and  let  it  stand 

till  it  is  cold.     Then  pour  it  off  as  wanted,  season  it  mode- 

fately,  and  give  it  to  the  sick  person,  having  first  warmed  it. 

Or,  cut  a  pound  of  lean  beef  very  fine,  pour  a  pint  of  boil- 

BB  2 


372  APPENDIX. 

ing  water  over  it,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  to  raise  the  scum. 
Skim  it  clean,  strain  it  off,  and  let  it  settle.  Pour  it  clean 
from  the  settling,  and  then  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Essence  of  £eef,  or  Mutton. 

TAKE  two  pounds  of  either,  cut  into  very  small  pieces  ;  put 
aside  all  fat  and  skin,  and  lay  the  meat  in  a  jug  without  any 
water;  put  the  jug  into  a  deep  saucepan,  and  pour  round  it  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  water  to  come  up  to  the  neck:  let  the 
jug  boil  in  the  water  two  hours;  take  it  out,  pour  the  es- 
sence into  a  basin ;  when  cold,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  warm  the 
remainder  of  the  essence  by  plunging  the  basin  into  hot 
water  :  a  single  tea-spoonful  at  a  time  »  sufficient. 

^  Veal  Broth. 

TAKE  two  pounds  of  scrag  of  veal,  and  put  to  it  two  quarts 
of  water,  a  large  piece  of  upper  crust  of  bread,  two  blades  of 
mace,  and  a  little  parsley  tied  with  a  thread.  Cover  it  close, 
let  it  boil  two  hours  very  slowly,  observing  to  skim  it  occa- 
sionally, when  both  meat  arid  broth  will  be  ready. 

To  mince  Veal  or  Chicken. 

MINCE  some  veal  or.  a  chicken  very  fine;  but  first  take  off 
the  skin ;  just  boil  as  much  water  as  will  moisten  it,  and  no 
more,  with  a  very  little  salt,  and  some  nutmeg  grated.  Then 
throw  a  little  flour  over  it,  and  when  the  water  boils,  put  in 
the  meat.  Keep  shaking  it  about  for  a  minute  over  the  fire; 
then  have  ready  two  or  three  thin  sippets,  toasted  nice  and 
brown,  laid  in  the  plate,  and  pour  the  mince-meat  over  it. 

Pork  Broth. 

TAKE  off  the  skin  and  fat  from  two  pounds  of  young  pork, 
boil  it  in  a  gallon  of  water,  with  a  turnip  and  a  very  little  salt, 
till  it  is  reduced  to  two  quarts:  strain  it  off,  and  let  it  stand  till 
cold.  Take  off  the  fat,  leave  the  settling  at  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  and  drink  half  a  pint  warmed  in  the  morning  fasting,  an 
hour  before  breakfast,  and  at  noon,  provided  the  stomach  will 
bear  it. 

To  pull  a  Chicken. 

TAKE  any  quantity  of  cold  chicken,  take  off  the  skin,  and 
pull  the  meat  into  little  bits  as  thick  as  a  quill ;  then  take  the 
bones,  boil  them  with  a  little  salt  till  they  are  good,  and  strain. 
Then  take  a  spoonful  of  the  liquor,  a  spoonful  of  milk,  a  little 
bit  of  butter  as  big  as  a  large  nutmeg,  rolled  in  flour,  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  as  much  as  will  lie  upon  a  sixpence,  and  a 
little  salt,  if  wanted.  This  will  be  enough  for  half  a  small 
chicken.  Put  all  together  into  the  saucepan,  then  keep  shak- 
ing it  till  it  is  thick,  and  pour  it  into  a  hot  plate. 


APPENDIX.  313 

Chicken  Broth. 

,  FLAY  an  old  cock  or  a  large  fowl,  pick  off  all  the  fat,  and 
break  the  bones  to  pieces  with  a  rolling  pin;  put  it  into  two 
quarts  of  water,  with  a  large  crust  of  bread  and  a  blade  of 
mace  :  let  it  boil  softly  till  it  is  good,  which  will  probably  re- 
quire five  or  six  hours.  Pour  it  off,  then  put  to  it  a  quart 
more  of  boiling  water,  and  cover  it  close;  let  it  boil  softly  till 
good,  then  strain  it  off,  and  season  it  with  a  very  little  salt. 

Or,  having  boiled  a  chicken  save  the  liquor,  and  when  the  meat 
is  eaten,  break  the  bones,  and  put  them  to  the  liquor  in  which 
the  chicken  was  boiled,  with  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  crust  of 
bread.  Let  it  boil  till  it  is  good,  and  then  strain  it  off. 

Or,  let  the  saucepan  be  very  clean  and  nice,  and  when  the 
water  boils,  put  in  the  chicken,  which  must  be  very  nicely 
picke-i  and  cleaned,  and  laid  in  cold  water  a  quarter  of  an, 
hour  before  boiling  it.  Then  take  it  out  of  the  boiling  water 
and  lay  it  in  a  dish.  Save  all  the  liquor  that  runs  from  it  in  the 
dish,  cut  up  the  chicken  all  in  joints  in  the  same  dish,  bruise 
the  liver  very  fine,  add  a  little  boiled  parsley  finely  chopped, 
a  very  little  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  all  well 
together  with  two  spoonsful  or  the  liquor  of  the  fowl,  and 
pour  it  into  the  dish  with  the  rest  of  the  liquor.  If  there 
be  not  liquor  enough,  take  two  or  three  spoonsful  of  the 
liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  and  clap  another  dish  over  it.  Then 
set  it  over  a  chafing-dish  of  hot  coals  for  five  or  six  minutes, 
and  carry  it  to  table  hot  with  the  cover  on.  If  it  is  for  a  weak 
person,  take  off  the  skin  of  the  chicken  before  setting  it  on  the 
chafing-dish ;  and  if  roasted,  make  nothing  but  bread  sauce, 
which  is  the  lightest  sauce  for  a  sick  person.  In  this  manner 
dress  a  rabbit,  excepting  that  only  a  piece  of  the  liver  must 
be  bruised. 

Chicken  Water. 

FLAY  a  large  fowl  or  a  cock,  bruise  the  bones  with  a  ham- 
mer, and  put  it  into  a  gallon  of  water  with  a  crust  of  bread. 
Let  it  boil  half  away,  and  then  strain  it  off  for  use. 

Bread  Soup. 

SET  a  quart  of  water  on  the  fire  in  a  clean  saucepan,  and 
as  much  dry  crust  of  bread  cut  to  pieces  as  the  top  of  a  penny 
loaf,  the  drier  the  better,  with  a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as  a  wal- 
nut. Let  it  boil,  then  beat  it  with  a  spoon,  and  keep  boiling 
it,  till  the  bread  and  water  are  well  mixed.  Then  season  it 
with  a  very  little  salt,  and  it  will  be  very  agreeable  to  a  weak 
stomach. 

Buttered  Water. 

BEAT  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg  in  a  pint  of  water,  put  in  a 
piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a  small  walnut,  with  two  or  three 


374  APPENDIX. 

§ 

knobs  of  sugar,  and  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time  it  is  on  the 
fire.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  bruise  it  between  the  saucepan 
and  a  mug,  till  it  is  smooth,  and  has  a  great  froth,  when  it 
will  be  fit  to  drink.  It  is  ordered  in  a  cold,  and  where  eggs 
will  agree  with  the  stomach.  This  is  called  egg-soup  by  the 
Germans,  who  are  very  fond  of  it  for  supper. 

Seed  Water. 

BRUISE  half  a  spoonful  of  carraway  seeds,  and  a  spoonful 
of  coriander  seeds.  Boil  them  in  a  pint  of  water,  then  strain 
them,  and  beat  into  them  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Mix  it  up 
with  some  white  wine,  and  sweeten  it  to  the  taste  with  double- 
refined  sugar. 

Barley  Water. 

BOIL  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pearl  barley  in  two  quarts  of 
water,  skim  it  very  clean,  and  when  it  has  boiled  half  away, 
strain  it.  Make  it  moderately  sweet,  and  put  in  two  spoonsful 
of  white  wine.  It  must  be  made  a  little  warm  before  drink, 
ing  it. 

To  boil  Pigeons. 

HAVING  cleaned,  washed,  drawn,  and  skinned  the  pigeons, 
boil  them  in  milk  and  water  for  ten  minutes,  and  pour  over 
them  the  following  sauce  :  Parboil  the  livers,  and  bruise  them 
fine,  with  an  equal  weight  of  parsley  boiled  and  chopped  tine. 
Melt  some  butter,  first  mix  a  little  of  it  with  the  liver  and  pars- 
ley, them  mix  all  together,  and  pour  it  over  the  pigeons. 

To  boil  Partridges. 

PUT  the  partridge  into  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  ten 
minutes ;  then  take  it  up  into  a  plate,  and  cut  it  into  two, 
laying  the  inside  next  the  plate.  Take  the  crumb  of  a  half- 
penny roll,  or  thereabout,  and  with  a  blade  of  mace,  boil 
it  two  or  three  minutes.  Pour  away  most  of  the  water,  then 
beat  it  up  with  a  small  piece  of  good  butter  and  a  little  salt, 
and  pour  it  over  the  partridge.  Put  a  cover  over  it,  and  set 
it  over  a  chafing-dish  of  coals  four  or  five  minutes,  and  send 
it  up  hot,  covered  close.  In  this  manner  dress  any  sort  of  wild 
fowl,  only  boiling  it  more  or  less  according  to  its  size.  Before 
pouring  bread  sauce  over  ducks,  take  off  the  skins ;  and  if 
roasted,  lay  bread  sauce  under  them,  which  is  much  lighter 
for  weak  stomachs  than  gravy. 

To  boil  Plaice  or  Flounders. 

THROW  some  salt  into  water,  and  when  it  boils,  put  in  the 
fish  ;  as  soon  as  they  are  enough,  take  them  out,  and  let  them 
remain  a  little  time  on  the  slice  to  drain  :  take  two  spoonsful 


APPENDIX.  375 

of  the  liquor,  with  a  little  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg ; 
then  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  with  the  liquor,  and  stir 
in  the  egg.  Beat  it  well  together.  With  a  knife  carefully 
slice  away  all  the  little  bones  round  the  fish,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  it.  Then  set  it  for  a  minute  over  a  chafing-dish  of 
coals,  and  send  it  up  hot. 

Brown  Caudle. 

PUT  four  spoonsful  of  oatmeal,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and 
a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  into  two  quarts  of  water ;  boil  it  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  but  take  care  that  it  does  not  boil  over : 
then  strain  it,  and  add  a  quart  of  good  ale  that  is  not  bitter. 
Sweeten  it  to  the  palate,  arid  add  half  a  pint  of  white  wine, 
or  a  glass  of  brandy.  When  you  do  not  put  in  white  wine  or 
brandy,  the  caudle  must  be  half  of  it  ale. 

White  Caudle. 

MAKE  gruel  as  above,  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  but  put 
no  ale  to  it ;  when  used,  sweeten  it  to  the  palate,  grate  in  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  put  in  what  white  wine  you  think  proper. 
If  it  be  not  for  a  sick  person,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Water  Gruel. 

PUT  a  large  spoonful  of  oatmeal  into  a  pint  of  water,  stir  it 
well  together,  and  let  it  boil  three  or  four  times,  stirring  it 
often.  Then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  salt  it  to  the  palate, 
and  put  in  a  large  piece  of  fresh  butter.  Brew  it  with  a  spoon 
till  the  butter  is  all  melted,  and  it  will  be  then  fine  and  smooth. 

Panada. 

PUT  a  blade  of  mace,  a  large  piece  of  the  crumb  of  bread, 
and  a  quart  of  water,  into  a  clean  saucepan.  Let  it  boil  two 
minutes,  then  take  out  the  bread,  and  bruise  it  very  fine  in  a 
bason.  Mix  as  much  water  as  it  will  require,  pour  away  the 
rest,  and  sweeten  it  to  the  palate.  Put  in  a  piece  of  butter  as 
big  as  a  walnut,  but  do  not  put  in  any  wine,  as  that  will  spoil 
it.  Grate  in  a  little  nutmeg. 

Isinglass  Jelly. 

PUT  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  and  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  into 
a  quart  of  water.  Boil  it  to  a  pint,  strain  it  upon  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar,  and  when  cold,  sweeten  your  tea  with  it.  You 
may  add  a  little  wine.  Jellies  made  from  calf's  feet,  and 
other  things,  have  been  already  given. 

Salop. 

TAKE  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  the  powder  of  salop,  and 
put  it  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Stir  it  till  it  is  a  fine  jelly, 
and  then  put  in  wine  and  sugar  to  the  palate. 


376  APPENDIX- 


Artificial  Asses  Milk. 

TAKE  two  large  spoonsful  of  hartshorn  shavings,  two  ounces 
of  pearl  barley,  an  ounce  of  eringo  root,  the  same  quantity 
of  China  root,  the  same  of  preserved  ginger,  and  eighteen 
snails  bruised  with  the  shells ;  boil  them  in  three  quarts  of 
water  tiil  it  comes  to  three  pints :  then  boil  a  pint  of  new  milk, 
mix  it  with  the  rest,  and  put  in  two  ounces  of  balsam  of  Tolu. 
Take  half  a  pint  in  the  morning,  and  half  a  pint  at  night. 

Or,  take  a  quart  of  milk,  set  it  in  a  pan  over  night,  and  the 
next  morning  take  off  all  the  cream ;  then  boil  it,  and  set  it  in 
the  pan  again  till  night:  then  boil  it,  set  it  in  the  pan  again, 
and  the  next  morning  skim  it.  Make  it  blood  warm,  and 
drink  it  as  asses  milk. 

Or,  take  a  quart  of  milk,  and  a  quart  of  water,  with  the  top- 
crust  of  a  penny  loaf,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Boil  it  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  ver/'softly,  then  pour  it  off,  and  drink  it  warm. 


SECTION  IV. 

NECESSARY  ARTICLES* FOR  SEAFARING 
PERSONS. 

As  pickled  mushrooms  are  very  handy  for  captains  of  ships 
to  take  with  them  to  sea,  we  shall  here  give  directions  for 
that  particular  purpose.  Wash  the  mushrooms  clean,  with  a 
piece  of  flannel  dipped  in  salt  and  water,  put  them  into  a 
saucepan,  and  throw  a  little  salt  ov«r  them.  Let  them  boil 
up  tlnee  times  in  their  own  liquor,  then  throw  them  into  a 
sieve  to  drain,  and  spread  them  on  a  clean  cloth.  Let  them 
lie  till  they  are  cold,  then  put  them  into  wide-mouthed  bot- 
tles, with  a  good  deal  of  whole  mace,  a  little  nutmeg  sliced, 
and  a  few  cloves.  Boil  the  vinegar,  with  a  good  deal  of  whole 
pepper,  some  races  of  ginger,  and  two  or  three  bay  leaves ; 
let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  it,  and  when  it  is  cold, 
put  it,  on,  and  fill  the  bottles  with  mutton  fat  fried.  Cork 
them,  tie  a  bladder,  then  a  leather  over  them,  and  keep  them 
down  close,  in  as  cool  a  place  as  possible. 

Or,  take  large  mushrooms,  peel  them,  and  scrape  out  the 
inside.  Then  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  throw  a  little  salt 
over  them,  and  let  them  boil  in  their  own  liquor.  Then  throw 


APPENDIX,  Sf? 

them  into  a  sieve  to  drain,  lay  them  on  tin  plates,  and  set 
theni  in  a  cool  oven.  Repeat  it  often  till  they  are  perfectly 
dry,  then  put  them  into  a  clean  stone  jar,  tie  them  down  tight, 
and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place.  They  will  keep  a  great  while, 
and  eat  and  look  as  well  as  truffles. 

Ketchup  to  keep  twenty  years. 

TAKE  a  gallon  of  strong  stale  beer,  a  pound  of  anchovies 
washed  from  the  pickle,  the  same  quantity  of  shalots  peeled, 
half  an  ounce  of  mace,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  whole  pepper,  three  or  four  large  races  of  gin- 
ger, and  two  quarts  of  large  mushroom  flaps  rubbed  to  pieces. 
Cover  all  this  close,  and  let  it  simmer  till  it  is  half  wasted. 
Then  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag,  let  it  stand  till  quite  cold, 
and  then  bottle  it.  This  may  be  carried  to  any  part  of  the 
world ;  and  a  spoonful  of  it  to  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  melted, 
will  make  a  fine  fish  sauce,  or  will  supply  the  place  of  gravy 
sauce.  The  stronger  and  staler  the  beer,  the  better  will  be  the 
ketchup. 

Fish  Sauce. 

THE  following  fish  sauce,  though  it  will  not  keep  more 
than  a  year,  may  be  very  useful  in  short  voyages  :  Chop 
twenty-four  anchovies,  having  first  boned  them  ;  put  to  them 
ten  shalots  cut  small,  and  a  handful  of  scraped  horse-radish, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  a  quart  of  white  wine,  a  pint 
of  water,  and  the  same  quantity  of  red  wine ;  a  lemon  cut 
into  slices,  half  a  pint  of  anchovy  liquor,  twelve  cloves,  and 
the  same  number  of  pepper  corns.  Boil  them  together  till 
it  comes  to  a  quart,  then  strain  it  off,  cover  it  close,  and  keep 
it  in  a  cold  dry  place.  Two  spoonsful  of  it  will  be  sufficient 
for  a  pound  of  butter.  It  is  a  pretty  sauce  for  boiled  fowls 
and  many  other  things,  or  in  the  room  of  gravy,  lower i no-  it 
with  hot  water,  and  thickening  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour. 

Dripping. 

DRIPPINTG  will  be  very  useful  at  sea,  to  frv  fish  or  meat,  and 
for  this  purpose  it  must  be  thus  potted :  Take  six  pounds  of 
good  beef  drijpping,  boil  it  in  some  soft  water,  strain  it  into 
a  pan,  and  let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold.  Then  take  off  the  hard 
fat,  and  scrape  off  the  gravy  which  sticks  to  the  inside.  Do 
this  eight  times,  and  when  it  is  cold  and  hard,  take  it  off 
clean  from  the  water,  and  put  it  into  a  large  saucepan,  with 
six  bay-leaves,  twelve  cloves,  half  a  pound  of  salt,  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  whole  pepper.  Let  the  fat  be  all  melted 


378  APPENDIX. 

and  just  hot  enough  to  strain  through  a  sieve  into  the  pot. 
Then  let  it  stand  till  it  is  quite  cold,  and  cover  it  up.  The 
best  way  to  keep  any  sort  of  dripping,  is  to  turn  the  pot  up- 
side down,  and  then  no  rats  can  get  at  it.  It  will  keep  on 
shipboard,  and  make  as  fine  puff  paste  crust  as  any  butter 
whatever,  for  pies  or  puddings. 

Directions  for  steeping  dried  Fish. 

EVERY  kind  of  fish,  except  stock-fish,  are  salted,  or  either 
dried  in  the  sun,  as  the  most  common  way,  or  in  preparing 
kilns,  and  sometimes  by  the  smoke  of  wood  fires  in  chimney- 
corners,  and,  in  either  case,  require  being  softened  and  fresh- 
ened in  proportion  to  their  bulk,  their  nature,  or  dryness.  The 
very  dry  sort,  as  bacalao,  cod  fish,  or  whiting,  and  such  like, 
should  oe  steeped  in  luke-warm  milk  and  water,  and  the  steep- 
ing  kept  as  nearly  as  possible  to  an  equal  degree  of  heat.  The 
larger  fish  should  be  steeped  twelve  hours ;  the  small,  such  as 
whitings,  &c.  about  two  hours.  The  cod  are  therefore  laid  to 
steep  in  the  evening  ;  the  whitings,  &c.  in  the  morning  before 
they  are  to  be  dressed.  After  the  time  of  steeping  they  are  to 
be  taken  out,  and  hung  up  by  the  tails  until  they  are  dressed. 
The  reason  of  hanging  them  up  is,  that  they  soften  equally  as 
in  the  steeping,  without  extracting  too  much  of  the  relish, 
which  would  make  them  insipid.  When  thus  prepared,  the 
small  fish,  as  whitings,  tusk,  and  such  like,  must  be  floured  and 
lard  on  the  gridiron,  and  when  a  little  hardened  on  one  side, 
must  be  turned  and  basted  with  oil  upon  a  feather;  and  when 
basted  on  both  sides,  and  heated  through,  take  them  up, 
always  observing,  that  as  sweet  oil  supples  and  supplies  the 
fish  with  a  kind  of  artificial  juices,  so  the  fire  draws  out  these 
juices  and  hardens  them.  Therefore  be  careful  not  to  let 
them  broil  too  long;  but  no  time  can  be  prescribed,  because 
of  the  difference  of  fires,  and  various  sizes  of  the  fish.  A 
clear  charcoal  fire  is  much  the  best,  and  the  fish  kept  at  a 
good  distance,  to  broil  gradually.  The  best  way  to  know 
when  they  are  enough  is,  they  will  swell  a  little  in  the  basting, 
and  you  must  not  let  them  fall  again. 

The  sauces  are  the  same  as  usual  to  salt  fish ;  and  the  usual 
garnish,  oysters  fried  in  batter ;  but  for  a  supper,  for  those 
that  like  sweet  oil,  the  best  sauce  is  oil,  vinegar,  and  mustard, 
beat  up  to  a  consistence,  and  served  up  in  a  boat. 

Should  your  fish  be  boiled,  as  those  of  a  large  sort  usually 
are,  it  should  be  in  milk  and  water,  but  not  properly  to  say 
boiled,  as  it  should  only  just  simmer  over  an  equal  fire;  in 
which  way,  half  an  hour  will  do  the  largest  fish,  and  five  mi- 
nutes the  smallest.  Some  people  broil  both  sorts  after  sim- 
mering, and  some  pick  them  to  pieces  and  then  toss  them  up 


APPENDIX.  373 

in  a  pan  .with  fried  onions  and  apples.  They  are  either  way 
very  good,  and  the  choice  depends  on  the  weak  or  strong 
stomach  of  the  eaters. 

Dried  Salmon. 

DRIED  salmon  must  be  managed  in  a  different  manner;  for 
though  a  large  fish,  they  do  not  require  more  steeping  than  a 
whiting  ;  and  should  be  moderately  peppered  when  laid  on  the 
gridiron. 

Dried  Herrings. 

DRIED  herrings  should  he  steeped  the  like  time  as  the 
whiting,  in  small  beer  instead  of  milk  and  water ;  and  to 
which,  as  to  all  kinds  of  broiled  salt  fish,  sweet  oil  will  always 
be  found  the  best  basting,  and  no  ways  effect  even  the  deli- 
cacy of  those  who  do  not  Jove  it. 


SECTION  V. 

GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS  ON 

THE  BREEDING  OF  POULTRY. 

W  HILE  families  remain  in  the  country,  it  will  sometimes  be 
expected  of  the  housekeeper,  that  she  should  know  some- 
thing of  the  management  of  poultry.  We  shall  therefore  ap- 
propriate a  section  to  that  purpose,  in  which  we  shall  lay  down 
some  general  rules  for  that  business.  These  hints  may  like- 
wise be  equally  useful  to  those  small  families,  who  retire  from 
the  noise  and  bustle  of  large  towns  and  populous  cities,  to 
spend  the  evening  of  their  lives  amidst  the  tranquillity  of  rural 
scenes. 

Fowls. 

IN  the  first  place,  particular  care  must  be  taken  that  the 
hen-roost  be  kept  clean.  Do  not  choose  too  large  a  breed 
as  they  generally  eat  coarse  ;  and  six  hens  to  a  cock  will  be 
a  good  proportion.  When  fowls  are  near  laying,  o-ive  them 
whole  rice,  or  nettle  seed  mixed  with  bran  and  bread,  worked 
into  a  paste.  In  order  to  make  your  fowls  familiar,  feed  them 
at  particular  hours,  and  always  in  one  place. 


380  APPENDIX. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  your  storehouse  free  from 
vermin,  and  contrive  your  perches  so  as  not  to  be  over  one 
another,  nor  over  the  nests,  in  which  always  take  care  to 
keep  clean  straw.  Wherever  poultry  are  kept,  all  sorts  of 
vermin  will  naturally  come ;  for  which  reason  it  would  be 
proper  to  sow  wormwood  and  rue  about  the  places  in  which 
you  keep  them,  and  you  may  also  l^pil  wormwood,  and  sprin- 
kle the  floor  with  it,  which  will  nobf;only  contribute  to  keep 
away  vermin,  but  also  add  much  to  tne  health  of  your  poultry. 
As  to  rats,  mice,  and  weasels,  the  best  method  is  to  set  traps 
for  them. 

If  you  feed  your  hens  now  and  then  with  barley  bruised, 
and  with  the  toasts  taken  out  of  ale,  they  will  lay  often,  and 
all  the  winter.  To  prevent  your  hens  eating  their  own  eggs, 
which  they  sometimes  will,  lay  a  piece  of  chalk  cut  like  an 
egg,  at  which  they  will  often  be  pecking,  and  thus  finding 
themselves  disappointed,  they  will  not  afterwards  attempt  it. 
When  your  hens  are  inclinable  to  sit,  which  you  will  know  by 
their  clucking,  do  not  disappoint  them,  nor  put  more  than  ten 
under  each.  March  is  reckoned  a  good  month  to  set  hens  in  ; 
but  if  the}'  be  properly  fed,  they  will  lay  many  eggs,  and  set 
at  any  time. 

Ducks. 

DUCKS  usually  begin  to  lay  in  February  ;  and  if  your  gar. 
dener  be  diligent  in  picking  up  snails,  grubs, -caterpillars, 
worms,  and  other  insects,  and  lay  them  in  one  place,  it  will 
make  your  ducks  familiar,  and  is  the  best  food,  for  change,  you 
can  give  them.  Parsley,  sowed  about  the  ponds  or  river 
they  use,  gives  their  flesh  an  agreeable  taste  j  and  be  always 
sure  to  have  one  certain  place  for  them  constantly  to  retire  to 
at  night.  Partition  off  their  nests,  and  make  them  as  near  the 
water  as  possible.  Always  feed  them  there,  as  it  makes  them 
love  home,  ducks  being  of  a  rambling  nature.  Their  eggs 
should  be  taken  away  till  they  are  inclined  to  sit,  and  it  is 
best  for  every  duck,  as  well  as  every  fowl,  to  sit  upon  her  own 
eggs. 

Geese. 

THE  keeping  of  geese  is  attended  with  little  trouble ;  but 
they  spoil  a  deal  .of  grass,  no  creature  choosing  to  eat  after 
them.  When  the  goslings  are  hatched,  let  them  be  kept 
within  doors,  and  lettuce  leaves  and  peas  boiled  in  milk  are 
very  good  for  them.  When  they  are  about  to  lay,  drive  them 
to  their  nests,  and  shut  them  up,  and  set  every  goose  with  its 
own  eggs,  always  feeding  them  at  one  place,  and  at  stated 
times.  They  will  feed  upon  all  sorts  of  grain  and  grass  ;  and 


APPENDIX.  381 

you  may  gather  acorns,  parboil  them  in  ale,  and  it  will  fatten 
them  surprisingly. 

Turkeys. 

TURKEYS  require  more  trouble  to  bring  them  up  than  com- 
mon poultry.  The  hen  will  lay  till  she  is  five  years  old.  Be 
sure  always  to  feed  them^near  the  place  where  you  intend 
they  should  lay,  and  feed'-them  four  or  five  times  each  day, 
they  being  great  devourers.  While  they  are  sitting  they  must 
have  plenty  of  victuals  before  them,  and  also  be  kept  warm. 
To  fatten  them,  you  must  give  them  sodden  barley  and  sod- 
den oats,  for  the  first  fortnight,  and  then  cram  them  as  you 
do  capons. 

Pigeons, 

IF  you  keep  pigeons,  which  are  generally  hurtful  to  your 
neighbours,  take  care  to  feed  them  well,  or  you  will  lose 
them  all.  They  are  great  devourers,  and  yield  but  little  profit. 
Their  nests  should  be  made  private  and  separate,  or  they  will 
always  disturb  one  another.  Be  sure  to  keep  their  house  clean, 
and  lay  among  their  food  some  hempseed,  of  which  they  are 
great  lovers. 

Rabbits. 

TAME  rabbits  are  very  fertile,  bringing  forth  every  month  ; 
and  as  soon  as  they  have  kindled,  put  them  to  the  buck,  or 
they  will  destroy  their  young.  The  best  food  for  them  is  the 
sweetest  hay,  oats,  and  bran,  marsh  mallows,  sowthistle,  pars- 
ley, cabbage-leaves,  clover-grass,  &c.  always  fresh.  If  you 
do  not  keep  them  clean,  they  will  poison  both  themselves  and 
those  that  look  after  them. 

Capons. 

THE  best  way  to  cram  a  capon  or  a  turkey  is,  to  take  bar- 
ley meal  properly  sifted,  and  mix  it  with  new  milk.  Make  it 
into  a  good  stiff  dough  paste  ;  then  make  it  into  long  crams  or 
rolls,  big  in  the  middle,  and  small  at  both  ends.  Then  wetting 
them  in  lukewarm  milk,  give  the  capon  a  full  gorge  three  times 
a  day,  morning,  noon,  and  night,  and  in  two  or  three  weeks  it 
will  be  as  fat  as  necessary.  In  Norfolk,  they  use  ground  buck 
wheat  instead  of  barley  meal. 

Fowls  are  very  liable  to  a  disorder  called  the  pip,  which  is  a 
white  thin  scale  growing  on  the  tip  of  the  tongue  ;  and  will 
prevent  poultry  from  feeding.  This  is  easily  discerned,  and 
generally  proceeds  from  drinking  puddle  water,  or  want  of 
water,  or  eating  filthy  meat.  This,  however,  may  be  cured, 


382  APPENDIX. 

by  pulling  off  the  souJe  with  your  nail,  and  then  rubbing  the 
tongue  with  salt. 

The  flux  in  poultry  conies  from  their  eating  too  much  meat, 
and  the  cure  is  to  give  them  peas  and  bran  scalded.  If  your 
poultry  be  much  troubled  with  lice  (which  is  common,  pro- 
ceeding from  corrupt  food,  and  other  causes) ,  take  pepper 
beaten  small,  mix  it  with  warm  water,  wash  your  poultry  with 
it,  and  it  will  kill  all  kinds  of  vermin. 

Rats  and  Mice — Bait  for. 

Mix  flour  of  malt  with  tresh-butter,  and  add  a  few  drops  of 
oil  of  aniseed ;  make  into  balls,  and  with  them  bait  the 

traps.     This  bait  has  never  been  known  to  fail. 

* 

Rats — To  drive  away. 

LAY  birdlime  in  their  haunts,  for  though  nasty  in  other  re- 
spects, yet  being  very  curious  of  their  fur,  if  it  be  but  daubed 
with  birdlime,  it  will  be  so  troublesome  to  them,  that  they 
will  even  scratch  oft  the  skin  to  get  it  off,  and  will  never  stay 
in  a  place  where  they  have  suffered  in  such  a  manner. 

Rats  and  Mice — To  destroy. 

IN  or  near  the  place  frequented  by  these  vermin,  place  on 
a  slate  or  tile  one  or  two  table  spoonsful  of  dry  oatmeal:  lay 
it  thin,  and  press  it  flat,  more  easily  to  ascertain  what  is  taken 
away.  As  the  rats,  if  not  interrupted,  will  come  regularly 
there  to  feed,  continue  to  supply  them  with  fresh  oatmeal  for 
two  or  three  days;  and  then  well  mixing, in  about  six  table- 
spoonsful  of  dry  oatmeal,  three  drops  only  of  oil  of  ani- 
seed, ft-ed  them  with  this  for  two  or  three  days  more  :  after- 
wards, for  one  day,  give  them  only  half  the  quantity  of  this 
scented  oatmeal  which  they  have  before  actually  eaten  ;  and 
next  day  place  the  following  mixture  :  to  four  ounces  of  dry 
oatmeal,  scented  with  six  drops  of  oil  of  aniseed,  add  half 
an  ounce  of  carbonated  barytes,  previously  pounded  very  fine 
in  a  mortar,  and  sifted  through  a  4ittle  fine  muslin  or  cam- 
bric. Mix  this  intimately  with  the  scented  oatmeal;  and 
laying  it  on  the  tile  or  slate,  allow  the  rats  to  eat  it,  without 
the  smallest  interruption  for  twenty-four  hours ;  and  all  those 
that  have  eaten  any  of  it  will  inevitably  be  killed.  The  car- 
bonated barytes  may  be  purchased  of  Brown  and  Ma\v,  Ta- 
vistock  Street ;  Accum,  Compton  Street ;  and  Allen  and 
Howard,  Plough  Court,  Lombard  Street,  London. 


APPENDIX. 


A  CATALOGUE  OF 

GARDEN  STUFFS,  POULTRY,  AND  FISH, 

IN  SEASON  IN  THE  DIFFERENT  MONTHS  OF  THE  YEAR. 


J  ANUARY.  —  Pears,  apples,  nuts,  almonds,  medlars,  services, 
and  grapes. 

February.  —  Pears,  apples,  and  grapes. 

March.  —  Pears,  apples,  and  forced  strawberries. 

April.  —  Apples,  pears,  forced  cherries,  and  apricots  for 
tarts. 

May.  —  Pears,  apples,  strawberries,  melons,  green  apricots, 
cherries,  gooseberries,  and  currants  for  tarts. 

June.  —  Currants,  gooseberries,  strawberries,  cherries, 
peaches,  pears,  apples,  apricots,  melons,  grapes,  nectarines, 
and  pine-apples. 

July.  —  Peaches,  cherries,  apples,  pears,  gooseberries,  apri- 
cots, plums,  nectarines,  melons,  raspberries,  strawberries,  and 
pine-apples. 

August.  —  Apples,  cherries,  plums,  nectarines,  peaches,  mul- 
berries, filberts,  figs,  grapes,  pears,  currants,  gooseberries, 
strawberries,  melons,  and  pine-apples. 

September.  —  Walnuts,  grapes,  pears,  apples,  plums,  peaches, 
lazaroles,  quinces,  medlars,  hazel-nuts,  filberts,  morello  cher- 
ries, currants,  melons,  and  pine-apples. 

October.  —  Services,  medlars,  figs,  peaches,  grapes,  walnuts, 
black  and  white  bullace,  pears,  quinces,  filberts,  hazel-nuts, 
and  apples. 

November.  —  Pears,  apples,  bullace,  walnuts,  hazel-nuts, 
chesnuts,  medlars,  services,  and  grapes. 

December.  —  Pears,  apples,  medlars,  walnuts,  chesnuts,  ser- 
yices,  hazel-nuts,  and  grapes. 

Roots  and  Vegetables. 

January.  —  -Spinach,  purple  and  white  brocoli  sprouts,  cole- 
vrorts,  savoys,  cabbages,  celery,  endive,  chervil,  sorrel,  pars- 
ley, beets,  cardoons,  tarragon,  turnips,  radish,  rape,  mustard, 
cresses,  lettuces,  hyssop,  pot-marjoram,  savory,  thyme,  cu- 
cumbers from  the  hot-houses,  mint,  skirrets,  scorzonora,  po- 
tatoes, turnips,  carrots,  parsnips,  sage,  asparagus,  Jerusalem 
artichokes,  and  mushrooms. 

February,  —  Coleworts,  savoys,  cabbages,  cresses,  lettuces. 


384  APPENDIX. 

chard-beets,  celery,  sorrel,  endive,  chervil,  paisley,  cardoons, 
purple  and  white  brocoli,  sprouts,  marjoram,  savory,  thyme, 
tansey,  burnet,  mint,  tarragon,  turnips,  radishes,  rape  and 
mustard.  Also  may  be  had,  forced  radishes,  cucumbers, 
kidney-beans,  and  asparagus. 

March. — Spinach,  savoys,  cabbages,  borecole,  coleworts, 
shalots,  garlick,  onions,  Jerusalem  artichokes,  parsnips,  turnips, 
carrots,  mustard,  cresses,  chives,  lettuces,  mushrooms,  tansey, 
endive,  celery,  fennel,  parsley,  beets,  cardoons,  brocoli,  kid- 
ney-beans, cucumbers,  hyssop,  pot-marjoram,  winter  savory, 
thyme,  burnet,  mint,  tarragon,  turnips,  rape,  and  radishes. 

April. — Brocoli,  sprouts,  coleworts,  chervil,  parsley,  fennel, 
spinach,  radishes,  tarragon,  burnet,  sorrel,  endive,  celery, 
young  onions,  lettuces,  thyme,  and  all  sorts  of  salads  and  pot- 
herbs. 

May. — Spinach,  artichokes,  cauliflowers,  early  cabbages, 
radishes, turnips,  carrots,  early  potatoes,  parsley,  sorrel,  thyme, 
mustard,  cresses,  lettuces,  fennel,  purslane,  mint,  balm,  cu- 
cumbers, tarragon,  asparagus,  kidney-beans,  beans,  peas,  and 
all  sorts  of  small  salads  and  savoury  herbs. 

June. — Peas,  beans,  onions,  radishes,  parsnips,  potatoes, 
turnips,  cauliflowers,  purslane,  parsley,  spinach,  lettuces,  cu- 
cumbers, artichokes,  kidney-beans,  asparagus,  rape,  cresses, 
thyme,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads,  and  pot-herbs. 

July. — Cauliflowers,  mushrooms,  salsify,  scorzonera,  ro- 
combole,  garlick,  onions,  radishes,  potatoes,  turnips,  carrots, 
cresses,  lettuce,  purslane,  sorrel,  chervii,  finochia,  endive, 
celery,  artichokes,  sprouts,  cabbages,  kidney-beans,  beans, 
peas,  mint,  balm,  thyme,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads  and 
pot  herbs. 

August. — Radishes,  potatoes,  turnips,  carrots,  peas,  salsify, 
scorzonera,  shalots,  garlick,  onions,  endive,  celery,  beets, 
sprouts,  cauliflowers,  cabbages,  artichokes,  mushrooms,  beans, 
kidney-beans,  lettuce,  finochia,  parsley,  marjoram,  savory, 
thyme,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads  and  sweet  herbs. 

Septembtr. — Beans,  peas,  salsify,  scorzonera,  garlick,  leeks, 
onions,  shalots,  potatoes,  turnips,,  carrots,  parsley,  celery, 
endive,  cardoons,  cauliflowers,  sprouts,  cabbages,  artichokes, 
mushrooms,  kidney-beans,  finochia,  chervil,  sorrel,  beets, 
lettuces,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads  and  soup-herbs. 

October. — Salsify,  skirrets,  potatoes,  turnips,  parsnips,  car, 
rots,  artichokes, cauliflowers,  sprouts,  cabbages,  finochia,  cher- 
vel,  cardoons,  endive,  celery,  rocombole,  garlick,  shalots, 
leeks,  scorzonera,  chard-beets,  thyme,  savory,  lettuce,  and  all 
sorts  of  young  salads  and  pot-herbs. 

November. — Rocombole,  shalots,  leeks,  onions,  scorzonera, 
salsify,  skirrets,  potatoes,  parsnips,  turnips,  carrots,  parsley, 


APPENDIX.  385 

cardoons,  chard-beets,  spinach,  coleworts,  sprouts,  savoys, 
cauliflowers,  cabbages,  Jerusalem  artichokes,  cresses,  endive, 
chervil,  lettuces,  a:id  all  sorts  of  srrfall  salads  and  pot-herbs. 

December. — Turnips,  parsnips,  carrots,  purple  and  white 
brocoli,  savoys,  cabbages,  shalots,  onions,  leeks,  salsify,  scor- 
zonera,  skirrets,  potatoes,  parsley,  spinach,  beets,  endive, 
celery,  rocombole,  garlic,  forced  asparagus,  cardoons,  cres- 
ses, lettuces,  thyme,  and  all  sorts  of  small  salads  and  pot- 
herbs. 

Poultry  and  Game. 

JANUARY. — Pullets,  fowls,  chickens,  tame  pigeons,  capons, 
turkeys,  snipes,  woodcocks,  rabbits,  hares,  partridges,  and 
pheasants. 

February. — Fowls,  pullets,  capons,  turkeys,  chickens,  pi- 
geons, tame  rabbits,  hares,  snipes,  woodcocks,  partridges,  and 
pheasants. 

March. — Tame  rabbits,  pigeons,  ducklings,  chickens,  fowls, 
capons,  pullets,  and  turkeys. 

April. — Chickens,  fowls,  pullets,  pigeons,  ducklings,  leve- 
rets, and  rabbits. 

May. — Chickens,  fowls,  pullets,  turkey  poults,  ducklings, 
green  geese,  leverets,  and  rabbits. 

June. — Green  geese,  chickens,  pullets,  fowls,  plovers,  tur- 
key poults,  ducklings,  wheat-ears,  leverets,  and  rabbits. 

July. — Green  geese,  pigeons,  chickens,  fowls,  pullets,  duck- 
lings, ducks,  turkey-poults,  leverets,  rabbits,  plovers,  wheat- 
ears. 

August. — Turkey-poults,  green  geese,  chickens,  fowls,  pul- 
lets, pigeons,  rabbits,  leverets,  ducklings,  plovers,  wheat-ears, 
and  wild-ducks. 

September. — Ducks,  chickens,  fowls,  pullets,  turkeys,  geese, 
larks,  pigeons,  teal,  rabbits,  hares,  and  partridges. 

October. — Chickens,  fowls,  pullets,  pigeons,  turkeys,  geese, 
snipes,  woodcocks,  widgeoqs,  teals,  wild-ducks,  rabbits,hares, 
larks,  dotterels,  partridges,  and  pheasants. 

November. — Pigeons,  pullets,  chickens,  fowls, turkeys,  geese, 
larks,  snipes,  woodcocks,  teals,  widgeons,  wild-ducks,  rabbits, 
hares,  dotterels,  partridges,  and  pheasants. 

December. — Fowls,  capons,  pigeons,  pullets,  turkeys,  geese, 
larks,  snipes,  woodcocks,  rabbits,  hares,  chickens,  dotterels, 
widgeons,  teals,  wild-ducks,  partridges,  and  pheasants. 

Fish. 

JANUARY. — Cod,  crawfish,  eels,  lampreys,  perch,  tench, 
carp,  sturgeon,  skate,  thornback,  turbot,  plaice,  flounders, 
soles,  oysters,  prawns,  crabs,  lobsters,  smelts,  and  whitings. 

c  c 


386  APPENDIX. 

February. — Thornback,  turbot,  flounders,  plaice,  sturgeon!^ 
soles,  cod,  prawns,  oysters,  crabs,  lobsters,  smelts,  whitings, 
skate,  cra\\fish,  lampreys,  eels,  carp,  tencb,  and  perch. 

March. — Tench,  carp,  mullets,  eels,  whitings,  soles,  skate, 
thornback,  turbot,  lobsters,  flounders,  plaice,  prawns,  craw- 
fish, and  crabs. 

April. — Crawfish,  trout,  tench,  chub,  carp,  mullets,  skate, 
soles,  turbot,  salmon,  prawns,  lobsters,  crabs,  and  smelts. 

May. — Chub,  trout,  eels,  tench,  carp,  smelts,  turbots, 
soles,  salmon,  prawns,  crabs,  crawfish,  and  lobsters. 

June. — Eels,  pike,  tench,  carp,  trout,  mackarel,  mullets, 
turbot,  soles,  salmon,  smelts.,  lobsters,  crawfish,  and  prawns. 

July. — Mackarel,  mullets,  haddocks,  cod,  flounders,  plaice, 
soles,  carp,  salmon,  skate,  thornback,  pike,  tench,  lobsters, 
eels,  crawfish,  and  prawns. 

August. — Thornbacks,  skate,  plaice,  flounders,  haddocks, 
cod,  carp,  pike,  mackarel,  mullets,  oysters-,  prawns,  crawfish, 
eels,  and  lobsters. 

September. — Thornbacks,  plaice,  flounders,  haddocks,  cod, 
carp,  salmon,  smelts,  soles,  skate,  herrings,  oysters,  lobsters, 
pike,  and  tench. 

October. — Brills,  smelts,  bearbet,  holoberts,  dorees,  perch, 
tencb^carp,  pike, herrings,  gudgeons^  oysters,  muscles, cockles, 
lobsters,  and  salmon-trout. 

Nffo&nber. — Salmon,  bearbet,  holoberts,  dorees,  gurnets, 
tench,  pike,  carp,  smelts,  salmon,  herrings,  trout,  muscles, 
cockles,  gudgeons,  lobsters,  and  oysters. 

December.—  Bearbet,  holoberts,  dorees,  sturgeon,  gurnets, 
turbct,  carp,  soles,  codlings,  cod,  smelts,  oysters,  muscles, 
cockles,  eels,  and  gudgeons. 

N.  B.  Beef,  mutton,  and  veal,  are  in  season,  all  the  year ; 
house-lamb,  in  January,  February,  March,  November,  and 
December;  grass-lamb,  in  April,  May,  June,  July,  August, 
September,  and  October;  pork,  in  January,  February, 
March,  September,  October,  November,  and  December ; 
buck-venison,  in  June,  July,  August,  and  September ;  and 
doe-venison,  in  October,  November,  and  December. 


[     387     ] 

»  MARKETING  TABLES,  FROM  THREEPENCE-FARTHING  TO 
FOURPENCE-HALFPENNY  PER  POUND,  Sfc. 


No. 

3,Pence  $ 

3  Pence  4 

3  Pence  J 

4  Pen.e 

4  Pence  $ 

—  l 

4  Pence  4 

/is.  &Y. 

£.    s.  d. 

£.    s.    d. 

£.  s.    d. 

£.  s.  d. 

£.  s.    d. 

£.  s.    d. 

2 

006^ 

007 

0     0     7A 

008 

o    6    84 

009 

3 

0     0     9| 

0     0  10| 

0     0  11$ 

0     I     0 

0     1     04. 

o    i    14 

4 

0      1    _] 

0     1     2 

0     1     3 

0     1     4 

0     1     5 

0     1     6 

5 

0     1      4$ 

0.1     54 

0     1     6| 

0     1     8 

0     1     9$ 

o    i  104 

6 

0     1     7^ 

0     1     9 

o    i  104 

0     2    0 

0-2     14 

023 

7 

0     1    lui 

0     2     04 

022$ 

024 

0     2     5J 

0     2     74 

8 

022 

024 

026 

028 

0     2   10 

030 

9 

0     2     5$ 

0     2     74 

0     2     9f 

030 

032$ 

0     3     4f 

10 

o    2    34 

0     211 

0     3     U 

034 

0     3     64 

039 

11 

0     2   11| 

0     3     24 

035$ 

038 

0     3   10| 

0     4     14 

12 

0     3     3 

036 

039 

040 

043 

046 

13 

o    3    •;$ 

0     3     94 

0     4     0| 

044 

047$ 

0     4  104 

14 

0     3     94 

0     4     1 

0     4     44 

048 

0     4  114 

053 

13 

0     4     0| 

0     4     44 

048$ 

050 

0     5     3$ 

0     5     74 

16 

04.4 

048 

050 

054 

058 

060 

17 

0     4     7$ 

0    V  114 

0     5     3| 

058 

"060$ 

0     6     44 

18 

0     4  10£ 

053 

0     5     74 

060 

0     6    44 

069 

19 

0    5     1} 

0     5     64 

0     5  11$ 

064 

0     6     8| 

0     7     1§ 

20 

055 

0     5   10 

063 

068 

0     7     1 

076 

21 

058$ 

0     6     1J 

0     6     64 

0-70 

075$ 

0     7  104 

22 

0    5  1U 

065 

0     6  10| 

074 

0     7     94 

.083 

.  23 

0     6     2j 

0     6     84 

072$ 

078 

0     8     1| 

0     8     74 

24 

066 

070 

076 

080 

086 

090 

25 

0     6     9$ 

0     7     34 

0     7     9J 

084 

0     8  10$ 

0     9     44 

26 

0     7     0£ 

077 

0     8     14 

088 

0     9     24 

099 

27 

0     7     34. 

0     7   lO^ 

085$ 

090 

0     9     6| 

o  10    14 

[28 

077 

082 

089 

094 

0     9  11 

0  10     6 

29 

0    '7  10$ 

0     8     54 

o   y   QJ 

098 

0   10     3$ 

o  10  104 

30 

0     8     14 

089 

0     9     44 

0  10     0 

o  10   74 

0  11      3 

31 

0     8     4J 

0     9     Of 

098$ 

0  10    4 

0  10  11| 

on    74 

32 

088 

0-94 

0  10     0 

0  10     8 

0  11     4 

0  12     0 

33 

0     8  11$ 

0     9     74 

0   10     3| 

0  ll     0 

0  11     8$ 

0  12     44 

34 

0     9     24- 

0     9  11 

0   10     7f 

0  11     4 

0  12     0| 

0  12     9 

35 

0     9   ,5| 

o  10   24 

0  10  11$ 

0  11     8 

0  12     4| 

0  13     14 

36 

099 

0  10     6 

0  11     3 

0  12     6 

0  12     9 

0  13     G 

37 

0  10     0$ 

o  10    34 

Oil     ti| 

0  12     4 

0  13     1$ 

0  13  104 

38 

0  10     3| 

0  11      1 

o  n  104 

0  12     8 

0  13     54 

0  14     3 

39 

0  10     6| 

o  n  .  44 

0  12     2$ 

0  13     0 

0  13     9| 

0  14     7j 

40 

0  10  10 

0118 

0  12     6 

0  13     4 

0  14     2 

0  15     0 

41 

0  11     1$ 

0  11   11^ 

0   12     9| 

0   13     8 

0  J4     6$ 

0  15     44 

42 

Oil     4$ 

0  12     3 

0  13     14 

0  14     0 

0   14  104 

0  15     9 

43 

0  11     7| 

0  12     64 

0  13     5$ 

0  14     4 

0  15     2| 

0  16     14 

44 

0  11   11 

0  12  10 

0  13     9 

0  14     8 

0  15     7 

0  16     6 

45 

012     2$ 

0  13     14 

0  14     0| 

0  15    0 

0  1-5  11$ 

0  16  104 

46 

0  12     54 

0  13     5 

0  14     44 

0  15     4 

016     34  ' 

0  17     3 

47 

0  12     84 

0  13     S| 

0  14     8$ 

0  15     8 

0  16     7J 

0  17     74 

43 

0  13     0 

0  14     0 

0  15     0 

0  16    0 

0  17     0 

0  18     0 

49 

0  13     34- 

0  14     34 

0  15     3| 

t)  16    4 

0  17     4$ 

0  18     4| 

50 

0  13     6| 

0  14     7    • 

0  15    74 

0  16     8 

0  17     8£ 

0  18     9 

51 

0  13     94 

0  14  10| 

0  15  11$ 

0  17     0 

0  18     0| 

0  19     14 

52 

0  14     1 

0  15     2 

0  16    3 

0  17     4 

018-5 

0  19     6 

53 

0  14    4$ 

0  15     54 

0  16     6| 

0  17     8 

0  18     9$ 

0  19  10| 

54 

0  14     7| 

0  15     9 

0  16  104 

0  18     0 

0  19     14 

1     0     3 

55 

0  14  1()| 

0  16     04 

0  17     2$ 

0  18    4 

0  19     5$ 

i    o   74 

[5G 

0  15     2 

0  16     4 

0  17     6 

0  18     8 

0  19  10 

1     1     0 

[84 

1     2     9 

]     4     6 

1     6     3 

1     8     0 

1     9     9 

1   11     6 

[100 

1     7     1 

192 

1    11     3 

1   13     4 

1   15     5 

1   17     6 

[112 

1   10     4 

1    12     8 

1   15     0 

1    17     4 

1   19     8 

220 

[     388     ] 

>  4 

MARKETING  TABLES,  FROM  FOURPENCE-THREE-FARTHINGS 
TO  SIXPENCE  PER  POUND,  Sfc. 


No. 

4  Pence  J 

5  Pence. 

5  Pence  $ 

5  Pence  $ 

5  Pence  | 

6  Pence. 

bs.  Ifc. 

£.  s.    d. 

£.  s.  d. 

£.  s.    d. 

£.8.    d. 

£.».   d. 

£.  a.  d. 

2 

0     0     9$ 

0     0  10 

o  o  104 

0     0  11 

0     0  11$ 

0     1     0 

3 

0     1     2| 

013 

0     1     3} 

0     1     4$ 

0     1     5$ 

0     1     6 

4 

0     1     7 

0     1     8 

0     1     9 

0     1  10 

0     1    11 

020 

5 

0     1    11| 

0     2     1 

0     2     2$ 

023$ 

0     2     4| 

026 

6 

0     2     4$ 

026 

0    2     7$ 

029 

0     2  10$ 

030 

7 

029$ 

0     2  11 

0     3     0| 

0     3     2$ 

034$ 

036 

8 

032 

034 

036 

038 

0     3  10 

040 

9 

0     3     6| 

039 

0     3  11$ 

041$ 

0     4     3J 

046 

10 

0     311$ 

042 

044* 

047 

049$ 

050 

11 

0     4    4| 

047 

0     4     9| 

050$ 

053$ 

056 

12 

049 

050 

053 

056 

059 

060 

13 

0     5     If 

055 

0    5     8$ 

0     5  11$ 

0     6     2} 

066 

14 

0    5     6| 

0     5  10 

061$ 

065 

068$ 

070 

15 

0     5  11$ 

063 

0     6     6§ 

0     6  10$ 

072$ 

076 

16 

064 

068 

0     7  "0 

074 

078 

080 

17 

0     6     8| 

0     7     1 

0     7     5$ 

079$ 

0     8     1J 

086 

18 

0     7     11 

076 

0     7  10$ 

083 

087$ 

090 

19 

0     7     6$ 

0     7   11 

0     8     5} 

088$ 

091$ 

096 

20 

0711 

084 

089 

092 

097 

0   10     0 

21 

0     8     3| 

089 

0     9     2$ 

0     9     7$ 

0   10     Of 

0  10     6 

22 

0     8     8$ 

092 

097$ 

0  10     1 

0  10     6$ 

0  11     0 

23 

0     9     1$ 

097 

0  10     Of 

0  10     6$ 

Oil     0$ 

0  11     6 

24 

096 

0  10     0 

0  10     6 

0  11     0 

0  11     6 

0  1>2     0 

25 

0     9  10J 

0  10     5 

0  10  11$ 

Oil     5$ 

0  11   llf 

0   12     6 

26 

0  10     3$ 

0  10  10 

0  11     4$ 

0  11   11 

0  12     5$ 

0  13     0 

27 

0  10     8$ 

0113 

Oil     9| 

0  12     4$ 

0  12  11$ 

0  13     6 

[28 

0  11     1 

0  11     8 

0   12     3 

0   12  10 

0  13     5 

0  14     0 

29 

Oil     5J 

0  12     1 

0   12     8$ 

0  13     3* 

0  13  lOf 

0  14     6 

30 

0  11   10$ 

0  12     6 

0  13     1$ 

0  13     9 

0  14     4$ 

0  15     0 

31 

0  12     3$ 

0  12  11 

0  13     6| 

0  14     2$ 

0  14  10$ 

0  15     6 

32 

0  12     8 

0  13    4 

0   14     0 

0  14     8 

0  15     4 

0  16     0 

33 

0  13     0| 

0  13     9 

0  14     5$ 

0  15     1$ 

0  15     9| 

0  16     6 

34 

0  13     5$ 

0  14     2 

0  14  10$ 

0  15     7 

0  16     3$ 

0  17     0 

35 

0  13  10$ 

0  14     7 

0  15     3| 

0  Ifi     OJ 

0  16     i>$ 

0  17    6 

36 

0  14     3 

0  15     0 

0  15     9 

0  16     6 

0  17     3 

0  18     0 

37 

0  14     7J 

0  15     5 

0  16     1$ 

0   16  11$ 

0  17     8| 

0  18     6 

38 

0  15     0$ 

0  15  I'O 

0  16     7$ 

0  17     5 

0  18     2$ 

0  19     0 

39 

0  15     5$ 

0  16     3 

0  17     0| 

0  17   10$ 

0  18     8$ 

0  19     6 

40 

0  15  10 

0  16     8 

0   17     6 

0  18     4 

0  19     t 

1     0     0 

41 

0  1C     2| 

0  17     1 

0  17  11$ 

0  18     9$ 

0  J9     7| 

1     0     6 

42 

0  16     7£ 

0  17     6 

0  18     4$ 

0  19     3 

1     0     1$ 

1     1     0' 

43 

0  17     o| 

-0  17  11 

0  18     8| 

0   19     8$ 

1     0     7$ 

1     1     6 

44 

0  17     5 

0  18     4 

0  19     3 

1     0     2 

1      1      1 

1     2     0 

45 

0  17     9| 

0   18     9 

0  19     8$ 

1     0     7$ 

1      1     6| 

1     2     6 

46 

0  18     2i 

0  19     2 

1     0     1$ 

1      1     1 

1     2     0$ 

1     3     0 

47 

0  18     7$ 

0   19     7 

1     0     6| 

1      1      6$ 

1     2     6$ 

1     3     6 

48 

0  19     0 

1     0     0 

1     1     0 

1     2     0 

1     3     0 

140 

49 

0  19     4} 

1     0    5 

1     1     5$ 

1     2     5$ 

1     3     5} 

1     4     6 

50 

0  19     9* 

0  10 

1     1    10$ 

1     2   11 

1     3  11$ 

1     5     0 

51 

i    o    2$ 

1     3 

1     2     3| 

1     3     4$ 

1     4     5$ 

1     5     6 

52 

107 

1     8 

1     2     9 

1     3  10 

1     4  11 

1     6     0 

53 

1     0   ll| 

2     1 

1     32$ 

1     4     3$ 

1     5     4| 

1     6     6 

54 

1      1     4j 

2     6 

1     8.7* 

1     4     9 

1     5  10$ 

170 

55 

1      I     9$ 

2  11 

1     4     0} 

1     5     2} 

1     6     4$ 

176 

[56 

1     2     2 

3     4 

1     4     6 

1     5     8 

1    .6  10 

1     8     0 

.    [84 

1    13     3 

15     0 

I  16    9 

1   18     6 

203 

220 

[100 
J112 

1    19     7 
244 

2     1     8 
264 

239 
286 

2     5  10 
2  U     4 

2     7  11 
2   13     8 

2   10     0 
2  16     0 

[     389     ] 

MARKETING  TABLES,  FROM  SIXPENCE-HALFPENNY  TO 
NINEPENCE  PER  POUND,  Sfc. 


No 

6  Pence  • 

7  Pence 

7  Pence  • 

8  Pence 

8  Pence  \ 

9  Pence. 

lt>s.  $ 

£.    s.    d 

u£.   s.  c 

£.  s.   d. 

£.  s.  d 

£.  s.     d 

£.  s.   d. 

Oil 

012 

013 

014 

01     5 

016 

0     1     7f 

019 

0     1  10; 

020 

0     2     1. 

023 

i 

022 

024 

026 

028 

0     2  10 

030 

, 

0     2     8? 

0     2  11 

0     3     li 

034 

036; 

039 

i 

033 

036 

039 

040 

043 

04,6 

7 

039* 

041 

0     4     4-1 

048 

0     4  Hi 

053 

1 

044 

048 

050 

054 

058 

060 

c 

0     4  10§ 

053 

0     5     7f 

060 

0     6     4J 

069 

10 

055 

0     5  10 

063 

068 

071 

076 

11 

0     5  11^ 

065 

0     6  lOf 

074 

0     7     9.J 

083 

12 

066 

070 

076 

080 

086 

090 

13 

070^ 

077 

0     8     If 

088 

0     9     2f 

099 

11 

077 

082 

089 

094 

0     9  11 

0  10     6 

15 

0     8     If 

089 

0     9     4f 

0  10     0 

0  10     7\ 

0  11     3 

16 

088 

094 

0  10     0 

0  10     8 

0  11     4 

0  12     0 

17 

0     9     2f 

0     9  11 

0  10     7f 

0  11     4 

0  12     OJj 

0  12     9 

18 

099 

0  10     6 

0  11     3 

0  12     0 

0  12     9 

0  13     6 

19 

0  10     3f 

0  11     1 

Oil  10f 

0  12     8 

0  13     54 

0  14     3 

20 

0  10  10 

0  11     8 

0  12     6 

0  13     4 

0  14     2 

0  15     0 

21 

0  11     4f 

0  12     3 

0  13     If 

0  14     0 

0  14  lOf 

0  15     9 

22 

0  11  11 

0   12  10 

0  13     9 

0  14     8 

0  15     7 

0  16     6 

23 

0  12     5f 

0  13     5 

0  14     4f 

0  15     4 

0  16     3f 

0  17     3 

24 

0  13     0 

0  14     0 

0  15     0 

0  16     0 

0  17     0 

0  18     0 

25 

0  13     6$ 

0  14     7 

0  15     7f 

0  16     8 

0  17     8f 

0  18     9 

26 

0  14     1 

0  15     2 

0  16     3 

0  17     4 

0  18     5 

0  19     6 

27 

0  It     7f 

0  15     9 

0  16  lOf 

0  18     0 

0  19     If 

103 

[28 

0  15     2 

0  16     4 

a  17    6 

0  18     8 

0  19  10 

110- 

29 

0  15     8f 

0  16  11 

0  18     If 

0  19     4 

1     0     6f 

119 

30 

0  16     3 

0  17     6 

0  18     9 

100 

113 

1     2     6 

31 

0  16     9$ 

0  18     1 

0  19     4f 

108 

1     1  Hf 

133 

32 

0  17     4 

0  18     8 

1     0     0 

114 

128 

140 

33 

0  17  lOf 

0  19     3 

1     0     7f 

120 

1     3     4f 

149 

34 

0  18     5 

0  19  10 

113 

128 

1     4     1 

156 

35 

0  18  llf 

105 

1     1   10-f 

134 

1     4     9f 

1     6     3 

36 

0  19     6 

110 

126 

140 

156 

170 

37 

1     0     Of 

117 

1     3     If 

148 

1     6     2f 

1     7     9 

38 

107 

1     2     2 

139 

154 

1     6  11 

1    ,8     6 

39 

1     1     If 

129 

1     4     4f 

160 

1     7     7f 

193 

40 

118 

134 

150 

168 

184 

1   10     0 

41 

1     2     2f 

1     3  11 

1     5     7f 

174 

9     Of 

1  10     9 

42 

1     f     9 

146 

163 

180 

1     9     9 

1   11     6 

43 

S    3% 

151 

1     6  10| 

188 

1  10     5f 

1  12    3 

44 

3  10 

5     8 

176 

194 

1  11     2 

13    0 

45 

4     4f 

6    3 

1     8     If 

1  10     0 

11  10} 

13     9 

46 

4  11 

6  10 

189 

1   10     8 

1  12     7 

14     6 

47 

5     5f 

7     5 

1     9     4f 

1  11     4 

13     3f 

15     3 

48 

6     0 

8    0 

10     0 

12     0 

14     0 

16     0 

49 

6     6f 

8    7 

10     7f 

12     8 

14     8f 

16     9 

50 

7     1 

9     2 

1  11     3 

13     4 

15     5 

17     6 

51 

7     7f 

9     9 

11  lOf 

14     0 

16     If 

18     3 

52 

8     2 

10     4 

12     5 

14     8 

16  10 

19     0 

53 

8     8f 

10  11 

13     If 

15     4 

17     6f 

19     9 

54 

9     3 

11     6 

13     9 

16     0 

18     3 

0     6 

55 

9     9f 

12     1 

14     4f 

16     8 

18  llf 

1     3 

[56 

10    4 

12     8 

15     0 

17     4 

19     8 

2     0 

[84 

5    6 

9     0 

2  12     6 

16     0 

19     6 

3     0 

[100 

14     2 

18     4 

326 

368 

10  10 

15     0 

U112 

0     8 

5     4 

j  10     0 

14     8 

19     4 

4     0 

J 


TABLE  OF  EXPENSES,  INCOME,  OR  WAGES, 

By  the  Day,  Week,  Month,  and  Year. 

From  One  Penny  to  Ten  Pounds  per  Day,  how  much  per  Week, 
Month,  and  Year. 


Per  Day. 

Per  Week. 

Per  Month. 

Per  Year. 

£.     *.     d. 

£.  s.     d. 

£.    s.     d 

of.       S.        d. 

0     0     1 

0     0     7 

024 

1    10     5 

002 

0     1     2 

0     \     8 

"3     0   10 

003 

0     1     0 

070 

411     3 

004 

0     2     '4 

094 

6     1     8 

005 

0     2   11 

0   11     8 

7    12      1 

006 

036 

0   14     0 

926 

007 

0     4     1 

0   16     4 

10  12  11 

008 

048 

0   18     8 

12     3     4 

v 

009 

053 

1     1     0 

13   13     9 

0     O  10 

0     5   10 

1     3     4 

15     4    4 

0     0   II 

065 

1    -5     8 

16  14     7 

0     1     0 

070 

180 

18     5     0 

020 

0  14     0 

2   16     0 

36  10     0 

030 

1      1     0 

440 

54  15     0 

040 

I     8     0 

5   12     0 

73     0     0- 

050 

1    15     0 

700 

91     5     0 

060 

220 

880 

109  10     0 

070 

290 

9  16     0 

127   15     0 

080 

2  16     0 

11     4     0 

146     0     0 

090 

<•  is< 

330 

12   12     0 

164    5     0 

0  10     0 

• 

3  10    0 

14     0     0 

182  10     0 

0   11     0 

3  17     0 

15     8     0 

200   15     0 

0  12     0 

440 

16  16     0 

219     0     0 

0  13     0 

4110 

18     4     0 

237     5     0 

0  14    0 

4  18     0 

10  12     0 

255   10     0 

0  15     0 

5     5     0 

21     0     0 

273   15     0 

0  16     0 

5  12     0 

22     8     0 

292     0     0 

0  17     0 

5  19     0 

23  16     0 

310     5     0 

0  18     0 

660 

25     4     0 

328   10     0 

0  19     0 

6  13     0 

26  12     0 

346  14     0 

100 

7  '0     0 

28     0     0 

365     0     0 

200 

14    0    0 

56    0     0 

730     0    0 

3     00 

21     0    0 

84    0    0 

1095     0     0 

400 

28     0     0 

112     0     0 

1460     0     0 

500 

35     0     0 

14C     0     0 

1825     0     0 

600 

42     0     0 

168     0     0 

2190     0     0 

700 

49     0     0 

196     0     0 

2555     0     0 

800 

56    0     0 

224     0     0 

2920     0     0 

900 

63     0     0 

252     0     0 

3285     0     0 

10    0    0 

70    0     0 

280     0     0 

3650     0     0 

[     391     ] 


TABLE  OF  EXPENSES,  INCOME,  OR  WAGES, 

By  the  Year,  Lunar  Month,  Week,  and  Day, 

From  One  Pourid  to  40,000  Pounds  per  Year,  how  much  per  Month, 
Week,  or  Day. 


Per  Year. 

1 

Per  Month. 

Per  Week. 

•    Per  Day. 

£. 

£.     J.     d 

£.    s.    d. 

£.    s.    d. 

I 

018 

0     0     4| 

'0     0     OJ 

2 

034 

0     0     9i 

•  0     0     If 

3 

050 

0     1      If 

0     0     2$ 

4 

068 

0     1     6| 

0     0     2f 

5 

084 

0     1   11 

0     0     3£ 

6 

0   10     0 

0     2     3| 

004 

7 

0118 

028 

0     0     4f 

8 

0  13     4 

0     3     1 

0     0     5J 

9 

0  15     0 

0     3     5| 

006 

10 
20 

0  16     8 
1    13     4 

0310 
078 

0     0     6| 
0     1     1 

30 

2  10     0 

0  11     6 

0     1     7| 

40 

368 

0  15     4 

0     2     2| 

50 

434 

0  19    2 

0     2     8f 

60 

500 

3     0 

0     3     3| 

70 

5   16    8 

6  10 

0     3  10 

.      80 

6  13     4 

10     8 

044-| 

90 

7  10    0 

14    6 

0411 

100 

868 

18     4 

0     5     5i 

200 

>  is< 

16  13     4 

3  16     8  ' 

0  10  11| 

'  300 

25     0     0 

5   15     0 

0  16    -S| 

400 

33     6     8 

7  13     4 

1      1   11 

500 

41   13     4 

9  11     8 

1     7    4|. 

600 

50     0     0 

11    10     0 

1   12  10* 

700 

58     6     8 

13     8.4 

1   18     4i 

800 

66  13     4 

15     6     8 

2     3  10 

900 

75     0     0 

17     5     0 

2    9    3J 

1000 

83     6     8 

19    3     4 

2  14     9J 

2000 

165  13     4 

38     6    8 

597 

3000 

250     0     0 

57  10     0 

8     4    4| 

4000 

333     6     8 

76  13     4 

10  19     2 

5000 

416  13     4 

95  16     8 

13  13  11| 

6000 

500    0     0 

115     0     0 

16     8     9 

7000 

583     6     8 

134    3     4 

19    3     6| 

8000 

666  13   "4 

153    6     8 

21   18     4| 

9000 

750     0     0 

172  10    0 

24  13     1| 

10000 

833     6     8 

191  13     4 

27  17  11J 

20000 

1666  13     4 

383    6     8 

54  15  10| 

30000 

2500     0     0 

574  19    0 

82     3  10 

40000  ^ 

3333     6     8 

767  13     4 

109  11     9 

INDEX. 


A  LA  MODE  beef,  140. 
Allemande  sauce,  145. 
Almonds,  burnt,  310. 
fraze,  220. 
pudding,  185. 
Ipswich,  ditto,  186. 
soup,  166. 
tarts,  266,  269. 
green,  ditto,  267. 
Allspice,  226. 
Anchovies,  artificial,  238. 
essence  of,  152. 
sandwich,  130. 
sauce,  153. 

Angelica,  candied,  313. 
tart,  268. 
water,  340. 
Aniseed  water,  340. 
Appendix,  362. 
Apple  cheese,  309. 

dumplins,  196. 
fritters,  223. 
pie,  209. 
pudding,  196. 
sauce,  147. 
tart,  209. 

Apricot  cakes,  276. 
dried,  3.12. 
jam,  288. 
marmalade,  308. 
pickled/ 231. 
preserved,  307. 
pudding,  189,  194. 
tart,  266, 
wine,  328. 
Aqua  mirabilis,  343. 


Artichoke   bottoms,    batter    for 

frying,  56. 
dried,  261. 
fricassee,  86. 
fried,  57. 
pickled,  235. 
Artichoke  pie,  210. 
ragood,  79. 
stewed,  72. 
Asparagus,  forced  in  French  rolls, 

178. 

omlette,  133. 
pickled;  236. 
ragood,  80. 
soup,  171, 178. 
Asses' milk,  artificial,  375. 

Bacon,  choice  of,  13. 

cured  in  the  Westmoreland 

way,  250. 

ditto,  Westphalia,  250. 
and  calfs-liver,  eggs,  and 

herbs,  137. 
Baking,  45  to  68. 
Balm  wine,  334. 
Barbel  stewed,  73. 
Barley  broth,  Scotch,  163. 
cream,  285. 
pudding,  190. 
water,  for  the  sick,  374. 
wine,  332. 
Bars,   to   remove   the  black  or 

burnt  parts  of,  5. 
Bath  cakes,  274. 
Batter,  for  frying  artichoke  bot- 
toms, celery,  eggs,  ox-peths, 
sweetbreads,  and  tripe,  56. 


394 


INDEX. 


Batter  pudding,  198. 

ditto,  without  eggs,  19.8. 
Beans  to  dress,  179. 
Beds,  care  of,  5. 
Beef  a  1'angloise,  61. 

a  la  daub,  90. 

a  la  francoise,  60. 

a  la  mode,  89. 

a  la  royale,  90. 

a  la  vinaigrette,  93,  135. 

baked,  93. 

bouillie  aux  choux,  91. 

broth  for  the  sick,  37 1 . 

choice  of,  9. 

chops,  91. 

cold  roasted,  five   different 
ways,  135. 

collared,  239. 

Dutch,  254.     V;.' 

escarlate,  94. 

essence  of,  for  the  sick,  37 3. 

fillet  of,  91. 

fricandeau,  81. 

gobbets,  61. 

hams,  253. 

hashed  and  bones  broiled, 
65, 

ditto,  plainly,  63. 
savorily,  62. 

hung,  253, 

joints  of,  and  care  of  joints,  9. 

leg  of,  baked,  45. 

ditto,  stewed,  1 34. 

minced,  65. 

olives,  90. 

palates,  for   made    dishes, 
ragouts,  &c.  94. 

ditto,  brown,  94. 
white,  95. 

potted,  245,  246. 

tagood,  76. 

rump,  baked,  46. 
forced,  92. 
stewed,  60. 

round,  forced,  93. 

sirloin,  ditto,  93. 

ditto,  en  epigram,  92. 
,     soup,  for  the  sick,  27  3 . 

steaks  broiled,  49. 
fried,  54. 


Beef  steak  pie,  201.  » 

stewed,  61,  140. 
with  cucumbers,  61, 
savorily,  61. 
stock,  141,  142. 
tails,  94. 

tea,  for  the  sick,  37  1 . 
tremblanque,  91. 
Benshamelle  sauce,  144. 
Beet-root,  pickled, 232. 
Berberries,  ditto,  231. 

preserved,  306. 
ditto,  in  bunches,  306. 
Bilboquet  fritters,  221. 
Birch  wine,  329. 
Birds  in  savory  jelly,  121. 

potted,  246. 
Biscuit  pudding,  185. 
Biscuits,  common,  274. 
drop,  273. 
French,  273. 
Spanish,  273. 
sponge,  273. 
Bits,  to  clean,  8. 
Black  caps,  ^74. 
Blackberry  wine,  324. 
Black  puddings,  256. 

ditto,  Scotch,  256. 
Blacking,  for  shoes,  8. 
Blanc  mange,  290. 
Boiling,  27  to  36. 
Boot-tops,  to  clean,  8. 
Bourgeois  soup,  163. 
Bradofogado,  132. 
Braise,  brown,  155. 
white,  155. 
Brandy,  cherry,  336. 
lemon,  336. 
orange,  337. 
raspberry,  336. 
Brawn,  choice  of,  13. 

mock,  254. 

Bread  and  flour,  367  to  371. 
French,  369. 
leaven,  368. 
London,  368. 
pudding,  192. 
ditto,  baked,  193. 
sauce,  148. 
Brocoli  to  dress,  179. 


INDEX. 


395 


Broiling,  49  to  54. 

Browning  for  made  dishes  and 

sauces,  &c.  143. 
Bubble  and  squeak,  136. 
Bullace  cheese,  309- 
Bardwan,  English,  132. 
Indian,  132. 
Burnt  cream,  285. 
Bustards,  choice  of,  15. 
Butler,  duty  of,  7. 
Butter,  choice  of,  18. 

melted  in  the  best  man- 
ner, 144. 

passing  of,  143. 
Buttered  water,  373. 

Cabbage  to  dress,  176. 

force  meagre,  18. 
pudding,  191. 
red,  pickled,  234. 
Calf's  appurtenances,to  dress,  101. 
feet,  fricasseed,  83. 
jelly,  291. 
pie,  20 1-. 
pudding,  182. 
ragood,  77. 
head,  baked,  46. 
boiled,  29. 
collared,  241. 
hashed,  63. 
pie,  203. 
roasted,  4-0. 
ditto,  German  way, 

40. 

surprised,  102. 
heart,  roasted,  102. 
liver,    bacon,    eggs,     and 

herbs,  137. 

ditto,  roasted,  40,  102,  1^6. 
Cakes,  270  to  280. 
Camp  vinegar,  1  56. 
Candying  and  drying,  307,  313. 
Carp  baked,  47. 
fried,  58. 

matelot  of,  128,  129. 
pie,  215. 
potted,  249. 
souties  of,  125. 
steAved,  73. 
ditto,  white,  73. 
Carpets,  to  clean,  5. 


Carriages,  care  of,  8. 
Carrots,  to  dress,  177. 
fritters,  221. 
pudding,  190. 
sauce,  154. 
Carving,  316,  323. 
Cassia,  candied,  308. 
Caudle,  brown,  375. 
white,  375. 

Cauliflowers,  to  dress,  178. 
pickled,  234. 
ragood,  80. 
Caveach,  137. 

Celery,  batter  for  frying,  50. 
fried,  57. 
sauce,  brown,  153. 
ditto,  white,  153. 
Cellar,  care  of,  7. 
Champaign,  English,  335, 
Chardoons,  stewed,  72. 
Chars,  potted,  247. 
Cheese,  choice  of,  19. 
apple,  309. 
bullace,  309. 
damson,  309. 
plum,  309. 

Cheesecakes,  almond,  282. 
bread,  283. 
citron,  282. 
curd,  283. , 
fine,  283. 
lemon,  282. 

Cheesecurd,  pudding,  196. 
Cherries,  dried,  311. 
pie,  211. 
preserved,  304. 
tart,  266. 
"  water,  343. 
wine,  327. 
Chervil  sauce,  154. 
Cheshire  pork-pie,  208. 
sandwich,  130. 
Chesnut  pudding,  195. 

soup,  164. 

Chickens,  boiled,  29. 
broiled,  50. 

broth  for  the  sicK,  273? 
chirin  grate,  117. 
fricandeau,  82. 
fricasseed,  brown,  84. 
ditto,\white,  84. 


396 


INDEX. 


Chickens,  fritters,  222. 

minced  for  the  sick,272. 
pie,  savory,  205. 
pulled,  84. 

ditto,  for  the  sick,  272. 
roasted,  41. 
sandwich,  130. 
in  savory  jelly*  1 16. 
sauce  for  cold,  151. 
stewed,  68. 
surprised,  116. 
to  truss,  23. 

water  for  the  sick,  273. 
Chimney-pieces,  to  black,  6. 
Chinese  obelisk,  in  sugar,  313. 

temple,  ditto,  313. 
Chocolate  cream,  287. 

tarts,  267,  269. 
water,  340. 
Christmas  pie,  212. 
Citron  cheesecake,  282. 

pudding,  192. 
Cinnamon,  to  kee'p,  226. 
Clary  fritters,  224. 

wine,  329. 
Clothes,  to  clean,  8. 
Cloves,  to  keep,  226. 
Coachman,  duty  of,  8. 
Cockle  ketchup,  brown,  159. 
ditto,  white,  159. 
pickled,  238. 
Cocks,  choice  of,  14. 
Cod,  boiled,  33. 
broiled,  51. 

crimped  and  broiled,  51. 
entree  of,  125. 
headf  baked,  48. 
ditto,  roasted,  45. 
salted,  33. 
sounds,  boile'd,  38. 
broiled,  51. 
fricassee,  87. 
souties  of,  125. 
stewed,  74. 

ditto, the  Scotch  manner,  75. 
Codlins,  pickled,  230. 
pie,  209. 

preserved  for  tarts,  301. 
Coffee  water,  340. 
Collaring,  239  to  243. 
Colouring,  for  sauces,  soups,  &c. 
143. 


Consumee,  or  essence  ofveal,143. 

Cook,  duty  of,  4. 

Cordial  waters,  339  to  345. 

Cornelia,  340. 

Coulis,  143. 

Cow-heel,  to  dress,  140. 

soup,  167. 

Crab,  to  be  eaten  cold,  ISO, 
ditto,  hot,  130. 
sauce,  152. 

Cranberries,  bottled,  261. 
Crawfish  soup,  172. 

stewed,  76. 
Cream  cakes,  272. 

pancakes,  218. 
pudding,  187. 
Creams  and  jams,  284. 
Cressu  soup,  165. 
Crust  for  pies,  with  suet,  200. 
very  large  pies,  200. 
standing,  for  ditto,  200. 
Cucumbers,  with  eggs,  130. 

(girkins)  pickled,  227 . 
ditto,  in  slices,  227. 
preserved,  303. 
ragood,  80. 
sauce,  154. 
stewed,  71. 
Culinary    poisons,   remarks  on, 

361  to  366. 

Cumberland  pudding,  186. 
Curd  fritters,  223. 

puffs,  268. 

Currants,  bottled,  261. 
cakes,  279. 
fritters,  220. 
(black)  jam,  289. 
(ditto),  jelly,  292. 
(red)  jelly,  292. 
pickled,  237. 
preserved,  red,  300. 
in  bunches,  white,  300. 
for  tarts,  301. 
tarts,  266. 
shrub,  337. 
wine,  327. 

Custards,  almond,  281. 
baked,  280. 
beast,  282. 
lemon,  281. 
orange,  281. 
plain,  281. 


INDEX. 


397 


Custard  pudding,  183. 
Cyprus  wine,  335. 

Damsons,  bottled,  262. 
cheese,  309. 
dried,  311. 
preserved,  303. 
pudding,  184. 
wine,  325. 

Desert  island,  in  sugar,  314. 
Devonshire  squab  pie,  208. 
Domestic  economy,  hints  on,  3. 
Dripping,  for  the  use  of  persons 

at  sea,  377. 
Drying  and  candy  ing,  307  to313. 
Ducks,  a  la  benshamelle,  115. 
a  la  braise,  114. 
a  la  daub,  115. 
a  la  mode,  114. 
aux  concombres,  115. 
"aux  navels,  115. 
boiled,  31. 
choice  of,  14. 
larded,  115. 
pie,  205. 
roasted,  43. 
to  truss,  22. 
stewed,  69.  - 
ditto,  with  peas,  69. 
Dueks  (wild)  hashed,  70. 
Dutch  sauce,  145. 

Economy,  domestic,  hints  on,  3. 
Eels,  boiled,  36. 

broiled,  53. 

choice  of,  18. 

collared,  242. 

fried,  59. 

pie,  215. 

potted,  247. 

roasted,  44.  . 

soup,  174. 

souties  of,  125. 

stewed,  74. 

Eggs,  bacon,    calf's   liver,  and 
herbs,  137. 

batter  for  frying,  56. 

choice  of,  19. 

fricassee,  86. 

ditto,  with  onioni  and  mush- 
rooms, 86. 


Eggs,  fried,  56.     ^ 
pie,  213. 
sweet,  ditto,  213, 
sauce,  151. 
soup,  173. 

Elder  buds,  pickled,  232.    • 
flower  vinegar,  226.' 
shoots,  pickled,  233. 
wine,  331. 

Endive,  to  keep,  262. 
ragood,  180. 
stewed,  7  2. 
English  burdwan,  132. 

olio,  or  hodge  podge,  95. 
Entree  of  crimped  cod,  125. 
eels,  126. 

fillets  of  soles,  126. 
ditto,  of  salmon,  126. 
fish  in  balls,  126. 
ditto,  in  a  mould,  126. 
mackarel,  126. 
skate,  126. 
Eschalot  sauce,  154. 

vinegar,  158. 
Espagnol  sauce,  145. 
Essence  of  anchovies,  152. 
ham,  148. 
veal,  or  consume  e,  1 43. 

Fenders,  to  take  the  rust  out  of,  5. 
Fennel  sauce,  152. 
Fever  water,  345. 
Fig  wine,  332. 
Fillet  of  beef,  91. 

mackarel,  126. 

pork,  with  sauce  Robert, 

112. 

salmon,  127. 
skate,  126. 
soles,  126. 
sturgeon,  128. 
whitings,  128. 

Fish  boiled,mode  of  preparing,50. 
choice  of,  16. 
fricassee  of,  generally,  88. 
in  jelly,  292. 

in  a  mould,  entree  of,  126. 
pies,  sauce  for,  with  cream, 

151. 

ditto,  without  cream,  1 52. 
salt,  pie  of,  216. 


398 


INDEX. 


Fish  sauce,   keeping,   151. — See 

Sauces. 

ditto,  tor  persons  at  sea,  377. 
steeping,  378. 
Flammande  sauce,  145. 
Flannels,  to  wash,  6. 
Flat-fish,  to  boil,  30. 

a  la  francoise,  129. 
Florendine  hare,  121. 

rabbit,  121. 

Flounders,boiledforthesick,374. 
choice  of,  18. 
fricassee,  87. 
pie,  216. 
stewed,  74-.' 
water  souchee,  75. 
Flour  hasty  pudding,  1 88. 
Flummery,  294. 

bacon  and  eggs  in,  295. 

French,  294. 

green  melon,  294. 

Solomon's  temple  in,295. 

Footman,  duty  of,  6. 

Forcemeat,  cold,  for  balls,  156. 

hot,  or  force,  155. 

Fowls,  a  la  daub,  116. 

a  la  menehout,  116. 
boiled,  29. 
choice  of,  14. 
forced,  117. 
fricandeau,  82. 
hashed,  70. 
in  jelly,  291. 
marinated,  118. 
pulled,  84. 
roasted,  41. 
ditto,  pheasaritfashion,42 
stewed,  67. 
ditto,  in  rice,  68. 
to  truss/ 22. 

French  barjey,  pudding,  194. 
beans,  to  dress,  177. 

to  keep,  258,259. 
ragood, 177. 
with  a  force,  177. 
French  pie,  208. 
Fricandeaus,  81,  82. 
Fricassees,  82, 83. 
Fritters  and  pancakes,  21 8  to  224 
Frontiniac  wine,  335. 
Frugal  dishes,  134  to  141. 


ruit,  artificial,  315. 

in  jelly,  291. 

and  vegetables,  catalogue 

of,  383  to  385. 
Drying,  54  to  60. 

ame,  in  jelly,  291. 

sandwich  of,  1 30. 
ammon,  roasted,  39. 
arden  stuff j  fruits,  &c.  catalogue 

of,  383  to  385. 
ditto,  ditto,  to  keep,  258. 
Garlic  vinegar,  158. 
Geese,  a  la  royale,  1  \  4. 
boiled,  30. 
choice  of,  14. 
giblets  stewed,  68. 
ditto,  stewed  with  peas,69. 
ditto,  stewed  plain,  68. 
pie,  203. 

ditto,  Yorkshire,  204. 
potted,  246. 
ragood,  78. 
(green)  roasted,  41. 
(stubble)  ditto,  41. 
sauce  for,  147. 
German  fritters,  221. 

sauce,  145. 
Giblet  curry,  132. 

pie,  203  to  205. 
ditto,  Yorkshire,  204. 
soup,  166. 
Ginger,  to  keep,  226. 
candied,  3 12. 
wine,  332. 
Gingerbread  cakes,  274. 
Glaize  of  herbs,  143. 

for  poultry,  larding,  &c.  142. 
Glasses,  to  clean,  7. 
Golden-pippins,  pickled,  231. 

preserved,  301. 
Goose,  sauce  for,  147. 
pie,  203. 

ditto,  Yorkshire,  204. 
Gooseberries,  to  keep,  260. 
jam,  288. 

preserved  like  hops,'299. 
ditto,  red,  299. 
ditto,  whole,  298. 
pudding,  1(J6. 
tart,  266. 


INDEX. 


399 


Gooseberries,  vinegar,  226. 
wine,  325. 
pearl,  wine,  325. 
Grapes,  to  keep,  259. 
pickled,  231. 
preserved,  301. 
wine,  327.. 

Grateful  pudding,  196. 
Grates,  to  take  the  rust  out  of,  5. 
Gravy,   for  poultry,  meat,  and 

steaks,  147. 
soup, 161. 

Grease  on  boards,  to  remove,  5. 
on  cloth,  to  remove,  8. 
Green-caps,  274. 
Green-gage  plums,  dried,  31 1. 
preserved,  303. 
Green-peas,  to  keep,  259. 
Green-sauce,  for  green-geese  and 

ducklings,  148. 
Gruel-water,  375. 

Hachis  mellee  sauce,  147. 
Haddocks,  to  broil,  52. 

to  dry  and  dress,  137. 
souties  of,  125. 
Hams,  beef,  252. 
to  boil,  28. 
choice  of,  13. 
essence  of,  148. 
mutton,  252. 
New  England,  251. 
pie,  202. 
roasted,  39. 
sandwich,  130. 
veal,  2  j3. 

Westmoreland,  252. 
Westphalia,  252. 
Yorkshire,  251. 
Hard  dumplins,  198. 
Hares,  choice  of,  15. 

Florendine,  121. 
hashed,  70. 
jugged,  70,  138. 
pie,  206'. 
potted,  247 
roasted,  44. 
soup,  165. 
stuffing  for,  40. 
to  truss,  25. 
Harness,  care  of,  8. 


Harricot  of  roots,  155. 
Harslet,  pigs,  138. 
Hartshorn  cream,  285. 

jelly,  293. 
Hashes  and  stews,  60  to  16. 

sauce,  146. 
Hasty  fritters,  222. 

pudding,  flour,  188. 
fine,  188. 

Hen  and  chickens,  in  jelly,  293. 
Herb  pudding,  186. 

eggs,    bacon,     and    cauli- 
flower, 137. 

Herrings,  baked,  48,  140. 
boiled,  35. 
broiled,  53. 
choice  of,  17. 
dried  and  dressed,  138. 
fried,  59. 

and  leek  pie,  139. 
pie,  217. 
potted,  247. 
Hodge  podge,  or  English   olio, 

95,  138. 

Hogs'   puddings,  with  almonds, 
255. 

with  currants,  256. 
Hop -top  soup,  171. 
Housekeeper,  duty  of,  3. 
Housemaid",  duty  of,  5. 
Hunting  pudding,  182. 

Ice  creams,  285. 
Icing  for  cakes>  280. 

tarts,  199. 

Imperial  water,  345. 
Indian  burdwan,  132. 

pickle,  234. 
Introduction,  1. 
Irish  stew,  140. 

Iron,  to  prevent  from  rusting,  5. 
Isinglass  jelly,  for  the  sick,  375. 
Italian  sauce,  brown,  144. 
white,  144. 

Jellies,  290  to  297. 

isinglass,  375. 

savory,  296. 
Jugged  hare,  138. 

Kidney  bean?,  to  dress,-177. 


400 


INDEX. 


Kidney  beans,  pickled,  229. 
Ketchup,  cockle,  brown  159. 
white,  159. 
mushroom  j  156. 
oyster,  brown,  159. 

u-hite,l59. 
walnut,  157, 
Kitchen  pepper,  156. 

Lamb,  to  boil,  27. 

care  of  joints  of,  1 1 . 
choice  of,  11. 

cutletsof,alamaintenon,lll 
ditto,  with  cucumber  sauce 
109. 

with  mashed  potatoes 
110. 

withsauce  Robert,  110 
with  tendrons,  110. 
fore-quarter,  ragood,76. 
ditto,  roasted,  37. 
head  and  appurtenances,!  10 
ditto,  with  poivrade,  110. 

hashed,    and    broiled 
bones,  65. 
minced,  65. 
stewed,  63. 
h  ind-quar  ter,  marinated,  1 09 . 
leg,  braised,  108. 
ditto,  and  jelly,  109. 
loin,  fried,  551 
neck,  ditto,  55. 
ditto,  glaized,  109. 
pie,  200. 

rumps  and  ears,  brown,  111. 
white,  111. 

shoulder,  braised,  and  sorrel 
sauce,  109. 

in  epigram,  109 
glaized,  109. 
grilled,  109. 

Lamb-stones,  fricassee,  82. 
Lampreys,  fried,  59. 
potted,  248. 
roasted,  44. 
sandwich,  130. 
stewed,  74. 
Larks  roasted,  42. 

ditto,  a  la  fran9oise,  42. 
trussed,  24. 
Laundry  maid,  duty  of,  6. 


Lavender  water,  543. 
Lernon  biscuits,  272. 
cakes,  276. 
cream,  289, 
peel,  candied,  312. 
pickle,  157. 
preserved,  304. 
pudding,  165. 
sauce,  148. 
ditto,  white,  148. 
tarts,  2 14,  269. 
water,  344. 
wine,  326. 

Lettuce  and  peas,  stewed,  70. 
Liaison  for  fri case es,  148. 
Linen,  to  wash,  6. 
Liqueur  au  citron,  338. 
Liver'and  lights,  to  dress,  137. 
Livers,  ragood,  79.  • 
Lobsters,  broiled,  5 1 . 
choice  of,  16. 
curry,  132. 

dressed  to  be  eaten  hot,  129. 
in  the  shell,  129. 
cold,  129. 
pie,  217. 
potted,  248. 
roasted,  45. 
sandwich,  130. 
sauce,  152. 
stewed,  74. 
Lorraine  soup,  164. 
Love  apple-sauce,  158. 
ditto,  mock,  158. 

Maccaroni,  to  dress,  133. 

soup,  166. 
Maccaroons,  272. 
Mace,  to  keep,  226. 
Mackarel,  boiled,  35. 
broiled,  51. 
collared,  243. 
entree  of,  126. 
pickled,  137. 
Malt  liquors,  345  to  361. 

spirits,  to  free  from  nauseous- 

flavour,  338. 
Mangoes,  230. 
Marble,  to  take  iron-moulds  oui 

of,  6. 
Marbled  veal,  243. 


INDEX. 


40  i 


Marinate,  149. 
Marketing,  9  to  19. 
Marmalade  apricot,  308. 
orange,  308. 
quince,  309. 
transparent,  308. 
Marrow-bones,  to  dress,.  139. 

pudding,  182. 
Matelot  of  carp,  128  to  129. 

of  perch,  pike,  and  tench,  129. 
Mead,      cowslip,    and     walnut 
wine,  333. 
ditto,  sack,  3 3. '3. 
Meat,  steaks,  and  poultry,  gravy 

for,  147. 
to  salt,  257. 
sandwich,  131. 
Mice,  bait  for,  3  82. 

to  destroy,  382. 
Midcalf,  102. 
Milk  pancakes,  218. 
soup,  172. 

ditto,  the  Dutch  way,  17  2. 
water,  341. 
Millet  pudding,  189. 
Mince  pies,  202- 

for  Lent,  211. 

Mistress  of  a  family,  hints  to,  3. 
Mock-brawn,  254. 
turtle,  124. 
ditto,  without  calf's  head, 

124. 
Molasses,  to  free  from  its  bad 

flavour,  338. 
Moonshine,  314. 
Moor-game,  potted,  246. 
Mountain  wine,  334. 
Muffins,  269. 
Mulberry  wine,  328. 
Mullets,  boiled,  36. 
broiled,  53. 
fried,  59. 

Muscles,  pickled,  238. 
pie,  217. 
ragood,  80,  81. 
soup,  174. 
stewed,  72. 

Mushrooms,  broiled,  53. 
fricassee,  86. 
to  keep, 261. 
ketchup,  156. 


Mushrooms,  pickled,  235. 
powder,  156. 
•*        ragood,  79. 
sauce,  150. 
stewed,  brown,  71. 
ditto,  white,  71. 
Mustaid,  to  make,  158. 
Mutt'  n,  basque  of,  106. 
breast,  collared,  240. 
broth,  for  the  sick,  37  ^. 
care  of  joints  of,  10,  11. 
choice  of,  10. 
chops,  broiled,  49. 
ditto,  in  disguise,  108. 
curry  of,  1 32. 

essence  of,  for  the  sick,  372- 
fricandeau,  82. 
hams,  252. 

haunch  of,  roasted,  38. 
ditto,roasted  with  oysters,39. 
hashed,  plainly,  63. 
ditto,  savorily,  62. 
kebobbed,  107. 
leg,  a  la  haul  gout,  107.     . 
boiled  with  cauliflower 

and  spinage,  29. 
ragood,  78. 

roasted,  with  crab,  108. 
with  cockles,  108. 
with  lobster,  107. 
with  oysters,  107. 
neck,  harricot,  105. 
pie,  202. 

rumps  and  kidneys,  106. 
a  la  braise,  106. 
marinated,  107. 
saddle,  roasted,  38. 
shoulder  en  epigram,  108. 
ditto,  surprised,  105. 
s-teaks,  marinated,  107. 
Turkish  way,  107. 

Nasturti  mis,  pickled,  231. 
Neats'  toi  gues,  fricassee,  85. 
stewed,  66.    - 
Nectarines,  pickled,  231. 
Norfolk  dumplings,  197. 
Noyau,  Englith,  337. 
Nuns'  cakes,  21  3. 
Nutmegs,  to  kee;i,  226. 

DD 


402  INDEX. 

Oat  cakes,  369. 

pudding',  189. 

Olio,  or  English  hodge  podge,  95 
Olive  pie,  213. 

sauce,  149. 
Omlettes,  133. 

of  asparagus,  133. 
Onions,  pickled,  236. 
pie,  210. 
sauce,  149. 
soup,  170. 
white,  ditto,  171'. 
Orarge  cakes^v^. 
chips,  31O. 
cream,  287. 
jelly,  250. 
marmalade,  308. 
peel,  candied,  312. 
preserved,  S04. 
pudding,  183. 
tarts,  214,  267. 
water,  344. 
•wine,  325. 

Ornaments  for  the  table,  3 13, 316. 
Ox- cheek,  94. 

a  la  mode,  139. 
pie,  201. 
soup,  167. 
stewed,  136. 
feet,  fried,  54. 
heart,  roasted,  1 36. 
Ox-palates,  fricassee,  83. 
ditto,  pickled,  237. 

stewed  for  made  dishes 

66. 

piths,  batter  for  frying,  56. 
tongues,  stewed,  62. 
Oxford  John,  112. 

pudding,  183. 
Oysters,  choice  of,  1 8. 
escalope<l,75, 
fried,  58. 

ketchup,  broxn,  159. 
ditto,  tzhite,  159. 
ragood, 81. 
sauce,  for  fish,  152. 
ditto,  ivtiite,  for  fish,  153 
•  for  steaks,  153. 

soup,  174. 
stewed,  75. 

Pa!errr.o  ^rint,  336. 


anada,  375. 

'ancakes  and  fritters,  218,  2'J4. 
3arfetto  amore,  339. 
'arsley,  fried,  57. 

pickled,  232. 
s'auce,  150. 
'arsnips,  to  dress,  179. 
artridges,  a  la  braise,  120. 
boiled,  31. 

ditto,  for  the  sick,  374^ 
choice  of,  15. 
cold,  sauce  for,  151. 
pie,  to  be  eaten  hot,  205, 
ditto,  ditto,  cold,  209. 
soup,  164. 
stewed,  69. 
'assing  of  butter,  143. 
Bastes  for  pies,  tarts,  &c.  199  to 

200. 

currant  and  gooseberry,  3 10. 
raspberry,  310. 
Patties  petits,268. 

ditto,  fine,  212. 

savoury,  207. 
Peaches,  dried,  312. 

pickled,  231. 
preserved,  307. 
Pearl  barley,  194. 
Peas,boiled,  ditto  Franeoise,179. 
to  keep, 259. 
stewed  for  sauce,  7 1 . 
soup,  169. 

for  winter,  169. 
green  and  white,  16S. 
stewed  with  lettuce,  71. 
Pennyroyal  pudding,  197. 

water,  34-1. 
Pepper,  to  keep,  226. 
Peppermint  water,  341. 
Pepperpot,  134. 
Perch,  to  boil,  35. 

matelot  of,  129. 
water  souchee,  75. 
Persico,  339. 

Pheasants,  a  la  braise,  120. 
to  boil,  31. 
choice  of,  14. 
roasted,  41. 
stewed,  69. 
to  trus%  25v 
'Pickled  mackarei,  137, 


INDEX. 


403 


tickled  salmon,  239. 
Pickling,  226  to  239.    . 
Pies,  199  to  217. 

fish,  saute  for,  with  cream, 

151. 

ditto,  without  cream,  152. 
meat,  sauce  for,  1 50. 
Pig,  au  pere  duillet,  i  12, 
baked,  47. 
collared,  241. 
roasted,  39. 
feet  and  ears,  113. 
ragood,  79. 
soused,  257. 
harslet,  138. 

hind-quarter,  roasted  lamb- 
fashion,  39. 
pettitoes,  32,  113. 
Pigeons,  a  la*  daub,  1 1 8. 
a  la  soussel,  1 19. 
boiled,  31. 

ditto,  for  the  sick,  374. 
broiled,  5O. 
compote,  118. 
fricassee,  84. 
pie,  205. 
poire,  118. 
poqueton,  119. 
potted,  240. 
pupton,  119. 
roasted,  42. 
in  savoury  jelly,  118. 
surtout,  1 1 8. 
transmogrified,  119. 
to  truss,  23. 
Pike,  boiled,  34. 

matelotof,  129. 
potted,  248. 

Pilchard  and  leek  pie,  139. 
Pine  apples,  preserved,  305. 
Pippins,  pickled,  231. 
Piquant  sauce,  for  cold  meat,!  47 . 
ditto,  for  hot  meat,  146. 
Pistachio  cream,  284. 
Plaice,  boiled  for  the  sick,  374. 
fricassee,  87. 
stewed,  76. 
water  souchee,  75. 
Point  du  jour  fritters,  222. 
Poisons/culinary,  361  to  366, 
Poivrade  sauce,  146. 


Pompadour  cream,  288. 
.Pontificato  wine,  336. 
Poppy  water,  341. 
Pork,  care  and  choice  of  joints,!  2» 
broth,  for  the  sick,  372. 
chops,  broiled,  50. 
curry,  132. 

fillet, with  sauce  robert,  1 12. 
leg,  a  la  boisseau,  112. 
loin,  a  la  Sicilienne,  113. 
steaks,  marinated,  107. 
Portable  soup,  161. 
Portugal  cakes,  275. 
Potatoes,  to  boil,  176. 
broiled,  53. 
fried,  56. 
pie,  210. 
pudding,  190. 
puree  of, for  sauce,  1^4. 
sal  lad,  141. 
scalloped,  176. 
Potting,  243  to  249. 
Poultry,  gravy  for,  147. 
Pound  cake,  271. 
Poultry,  care  of,  379  to  382. 
Prawns,  choice  of,  18. 
stewed,  76. 

preserving,  298  to  3Q7, 
Prune  pudding,  184. 
Prussian  cakes,  275. 
Puddings,  181  to  199. 
Puffs  and  tarts,  265  to  269, 
Puff-paste,  200. 
Pulled  chickens  and  fowl,  84. 

turkey,  84. 

Punch  milk,  and  Norfolk,  337. 
Puree  of  potatoes,  1 30. 

Quails,  to  roast,  42. 
Quaking  pudding,  189- 
Queen  cakes,  279. 

sauce,  146. 

for  chickens,  14"9. 
Quince  cakes,  276. 

marmalade,  309. 

preserved,  306. 

pudding,  194. 

Wine,  329. 

Quin'»s  fish  sauce,  151. 
meat  sauce,  151, 
Quire  of  paper,  32-9- 


404 


INDEX. 


Rabbits,  boiled, "3 1. 
casserol,  122. 
choice  of,  15. 
florendine,  121. 
fricassee,  brown,  85. 
ditto,  white,  85. 
hashed,  70. 

pie,  to  be  eaten  hot,  206. 
roasted,  43. 
ditto,  hare  fashion,  44. 
stuffing  for,  40. 
surprised,  122. 
to  truss,  25. 

Radish  pods,  pickled,  232. 
Ragouts,  7  6  to  81. 
Raisin  wine,  327. 
Ramequins,  133. 
Raspberry,  cream,  287. 
dumplings,  197. 
fritters,  220. 
jam,  red  and  white,2S9» 
paste,  309. 
preserved,  299. 
ditto,  white,  300. 
tarts,  266. 
wine,  327. 
Ratifia  cakes,  278. 
cream,  286. 
pudding,  198. 
Rats,  bait  for,  382. 
to  destroy,  382. 
to  drive  away,  382. 
Ravi  got  sauce,  146. 
Reine  a  la  sauce,  146. 
Rhubarb  tarts,  266. 
Ribband  jelly,  293.    . 
Rice,  cakes,  272. 

East  India,  mode  of  dress- 
ing, 131. 
fritters,  220. 
pancakes,  218. 
puddings,  five  different  wavs 

of  dressing,  187. 
soup,  172. 

Roasted  meat,  sauce  for,  150. 
Roasting,  36  to  45.     • 
Robert  sauce,  146. 
Roots,  liarricot  of,  155. 
Rpots  and  vegetables,  175  to  181. 
Hose  water,  341. 
wine,  331. 


Royal  sauce,  brown,  1 44. 
ditto,  white,  144. 
Ruffs  and  Rees,  to  roast,  43. 
Russian  sauce, for  cold  meat,  147. 

Sack,  English,  335. 

mead  wine,  333. 
Saddles,  to  clean,  8. 
Saffron  cakes,  275. 
Sago  pudding,  1 85. 
Salad,  sauce  for,  155. 
Salmon,  a  la  royale,  125. 
baked,  47. 
boiled,  32. 
broiled,  52. 
choice  of,  18. 
collared,  242. 
entree  of,  126. 
fillets  of,  1 27. 
pickled,  239. 
pie,  217. 
potted,  249. 
souties  of,  125. 
Salop,  375. 
Salt-fish,  pie,  216. 
Salting  and  sousing,  250  to  258. 
Samphire,  pickled,  237- 
Sandwich,  anchovy,  130. 
beef,  130. 
Cheshire,  13  J. 
cold  meat,  131. 
game,  130. 
ham,  1 30. 
lampreys,  130. 
lobsters,  130. 
shrimps,  130. 
veal,  130. 
Soutee  soup,  170. 
Saragossa  wine,  335. 
Saucepans,  care  of,  5. 
Sauces,  141  to  159,  viz. 
Anchovy  sauce,  153. 

essence,  152. 
Applesauce,  147. 
Beef  stock.  141. 

ditto,  second,  14-2.  . 

Benshamelle  sauce,  144. 
Ijntise,  brown  and  white,  155. 
Bread  sauce,  148. 
Browning,   for  gravy,    made 
dishes,  soups,  &c.  143. 


INDEX. 


405' 


Butter  melted,  144. 
Camp  vinegar,  157. 
Carrot  sauce,  154. 
Celery  sauce,  brown,  153. 

ditto,  white,  154. 
Chervil  sauce,  154. 
Chicken,  cold,  sauce,  151. 
Cockle  ketchup,  brown,  159. 

ditto,  white,  159. 
Consume,or  essence  of  veal,  1 43 
Coulis,  143. 
Crab  sauce,  1 52. 
Cucumber  sauce,.  154. 
Curry  powder,  15(3. 
Ducks,  wild,  sauce  for,  149. 
Dutch  sauce,  145. 
Egg  sauce,  151. 
Eschalot  sauce,  154. 

vinegar,  158. 
Fennel  sauce,  152. 
Fish  sauce,  keeping,  151. 
ditto,  Q,uin's,  151 . 
stock,  142. 
Flemish  sauce,  145. 
Forcemeat,  cold,  for  balls,  156. 
hot,  or  force,  155. 
Game  sauce,  151. 
Garlic  vinegar,  158. 
German  sauce,  145. 
Glaize  of  herbs,  143. 

of  poultry,  142. 
Goose  sauce,  147. 
Gravy  for  poultry,  147. 
Green  sauce,  148. 
Hachis  sauce,  mellee,  147. 
Ham,  essence  of,  148. 
Harricot  roots,  155. 
Italian  sauce,  brown,  144. 

ditto,  ivhite,  144. 
Jelly,  clear  savoury,  142, 
Kitchen  pepper,  157. 
Lemon  pickle,  157. 

sauce,  for  fowls,  150. 

ditto,  white,  148. 
Liaison,  for  fricassees,  148. 
Lobster  sauce,  152. 
Marinate,  149. 
Meat,  roasted,  gravy  for,  147. 
sauce  for,  150. 
Quin'sfor,  151. 
Mushroom  ketchup,  156. 
powder,  156. 


Mushroom  sauce,  150. 
Mustard,  patent  made,  158. 
Olive  sauce,  149. 
Onion  sauce,  149., 
Oyster  ketchup,  orown,  159. 
ditto,  white,  159. 
sauce,  for  fish,  152. 

ditto,  white,  153. 
for  steaks,  153. 

Partridges,  cold,  sauce  for,  151. 
Parsley  sauce,  150. 
Passing  of  butter,  143. 
Piquant  sauce,  146  to  147. 
Pies,   fish,     sauce    for,    (with 

cream),  151. 

ditto,  (without  cream),  152. 
meat,  sauce  for,  150. 
Poivrade  sauce,  146. 
Poultry,  gravy  for,  147. 
Puree  of  potatoes,  154. 
Queen's  sauce,  of  chicken,149. 
Q,uin's  sauce,  for  fish,  151. 

ditto,  for  game,  meat, 

and  poultry,  151. 
Ravigot  sauce,  146. 
Royal  sauce,  brown,  144. 

ditto,  white,  144. 
Russian  sauce,for  cold  meat,  147 
Salad  sauce,  155. 
Shrimp  sauce,  153. 
Sorrel  sauce,  154.    , 
Soy,  English,  139. 
Spanish  sauce,  145. 
Spices,  151. 
Steaks,  gravy  for,  147. 
Stock  sauce,  150. 
Sweet  sauce,  for  venison,  149. 
Tarragon  sauce,  154. 
Tomata  sauce,  158. 

ditto,  mock,  158. 
Tournay  sauce,  145. 
Truffle  sauce,  for  turkeys,  149. 
Turnip  sauce,  154. 
Turtle  herbs,  to  preserve,  156. 
Veal,  cold,  sauce  for,  151. 

stock,  142. 

Walnut  ketchup,  157. 
Sausages,  to  make,  255. 
Bologna,  255. 
fried,  56. 

Savoury  jelly,  296f 
patties,  207. 


INDEX. 


Scotch  barley  broth,  163. 

collops,  111. 

Sea,  necessary  articles  for  per- 
sons at,  37 6  to  37 9. 
Seed  cakes,  27  9. 

ditto,  water,  for  the  sick,  374. 
Shalot  vinegar,  158. 
Shoes,  blacking  for,  8. 
Shrewsbury  cakes,  275. 
Shrimps,  potted,  249. 

sandwich,  130. 
sauce,  153. 
stewed,  7  6. 
Shropshire  pie,  212. 
Shrub,  currant,  337. 
Sick  persons,  nourishment    for, 

37 1  to  376. 

Silver,  to  clean  and  polish,  7. 
Skate,  choice  of,  17. 
entree  of,  127. 
fricassee,  87. 
,soup,  175. 
Skirrets,  fricassee,  86. 

fritters,  224. 

Small  birds  in  jelly,  121. 
Smelts,  choice  of,  18. 
fried,  57. 
pickled,  238. 
potted,  248. 
Snipes,  broiled,  33. 
roasted,  44. 
to  truss,  24. 
Snow,  315. 

balls,  277. 

Snow  and  cream,  288. 
Solamagunday,  132. 
Soles,  a.  la  Fran£oise,  129. 
boiled,  33. 

ditto,  Dutch  way,  33; 
choice  of,  16. 
entree  of,  126. 
,  fillets,  126. 

fricassee,  87. 
fried,  57. 
pie,  216. 
stewed,  74. 
Sorrel,  to  keep,  262. 
Sorrel  sauce,  154. 
stewed,  7 1 . 

Sour  crout,  to  dress,  235. 
to  make,  234. 
Soups  and  broth?,  159  to  175 


Souties  of  carp,  cod,  eels,  had- 
docks, salmon,  and  tench,  125. 
Soy,  English,  139. 
Spanish  cream,  286. 

sauce,  145. 
Spices,  157. 
Spinach,  to  keep,  268. 
pudding,  187. 
soup,  176. 
stewed,  72. 
Spirits  of  wine,  345. 
Spoonful  pudding,  193. 
Sprats  baked,  48,  140. 
Steaks,  gravy  for,  147. — See  beef, 
mutton,  pork,  and  veal. 

pudding,  181. 
Steel,  to  prevent  from  rusting,  5. 
bars,  to  remove  the  black 

spots  of,  5. 
Steeple  cream,  284. 
Stews  and  hashes,  66  to  16* 

Irish,  140. 
Stock,- beef,  141. 

ditto,  second,  142. 
fish,  142. 
jelly,  142. 
sauce,  150. 
veal,  142. 

ditto,  clear  brown,  142, 
Stoves,  to  black,  6. 
Strawberry  jam,  289. 

preserved,  305. 
Stuffing  for  hares,  rabbits,  tur' 

keys,  and  veal,  40. 
Sturgeon  to  boil,  35. 

choice  of,  16. 
Suet  dumplings,withc«rrants»l  97, 

pudding,  ditto  veal,  191. 
Sugar,  preparations  of,  263  to 265. 
puffs,  268. 
vinegar,  226. 

Sunderland's,  lady,  pudding,  191. 
Surfeit  water,  243. 
Sweet  sauce,  149. 
Sweetbreads,  a  la  Dauphine,  100. 
batter  for  frying,  56. 
boiled,  and  broiled,  101 . 
en  erisori,  and  fried,  101. 
fricassee,  brown,  83. 
clitto,  white,  83. 
and  palate.s,fricassee,  83, 
en  gordiniere,  100. 


INDEX. 


407 


Sweetbreads,  larded,  100. 
ragood,  brown,  78. 
ditto,  white,  IS. 
roasted,  38. 

Sweetmeat  puddings,  183,  195. 
Sycamore  wine,  332. 
Syllabubs,  everlasting,  297. 
lemon,  297. 
solid,  2/6. 

under  the  cow,  290. 
•vvhipt,  296. 
Syringed  fritters,  223. 

Tables,  to  clean,  6. 
Tansy  fritters,  220. 

pudding,  192. 
Tarragon  sauce,  154. 

vinegar,  226. 

Tarts  and  putfs,  265  to  269. 
Tarte  de  moi,  214. 
Tea  cream,  286. 
Tench,  choice  of,  17. 
fried,  59. 

matelot  of,  128,129. 
pie,  215. 
potted,  249. 
souties  of,  125. 
stewed,  73. 
Tendroris,  1 10. 
Thoruback,  fricassee,  87. 

soup,  175. 

Tin  covers,  to  clean,  6. 
Tomala  sauce, and  mock  do.  159. 
Tongue  boiled,  29. 
potted,  243. 
roasted,  38,95. 
salted,  253. 
stewed,  66. 
Tournay  sauce,  145. 
Transparent  marmalade,  308. 

pudding,  190. 

Treacle,  to    free    from  its    dis- 
agreeable flavour,  338. 
water,  Lady  Monmouth's,342. 
Trifle,  286. 

Tripe,  batter  for  frying,  5<J. 
a  la  Kilkenny,  95. 
fricassee,  brown,  85. 
ditto,  white,  85. 
fried,  57. 
so used,  257. 


Trout  to  boil,  33. 
to  broil,  51. 
choice  of,  17. 
pie,  215. 
potted,  24Q. 

Truffle  sauce  for  turkeys,  149. 
Trussing,  19  to  26. 
Turbot,  a  la  Fran£oise,  129. 
boiled,  34. 
"  choice  of,  16. 
fried,  57. 
pie,  214. 

Turkey,  a  la  daub,  1 1 5. 
boiled,  30. 
choice  of,  13. 
hashed,  70. 
in  jelly,  291. 
potted,  243. 
pulled,  84. 
roasted,  43. 
sauce  for,  149. 
soased,  257. 
ste\ved,ditto  &nnr?z,67. 
stuffing  for,  40. 
to  truss,  20. 
Turnip  sauce,  154. 
soup,  172. 
wine,  330. 
Turtle,  122. 

fricandeau,  82. 
herbs  to  preserve,  156. 
mock  ditto, without  calf's 
head,  124. 

Udder  roasted,  38. 

Umbles  of  deer,  to  dress,  105. 

Veal,  a  la  bourgeois,  97. 
boiled  like  sturgeon,  27. 
breast,  a  1'Angloise,  98. 

a  1'ecossoise,  98. 

a  la  flammande,  98. 

in  hodge-podge,  103. 

a  FItalienne,  98. 

en  porcupine,  96. 

ragood,77. 

broth  for  the  sick,  372. 
care  and  choice  of  joints,  1 1. 
cold,  fried,  55. 
ditto,  sauce  for,  151. 
collared,  240. 


408 


INDEX. 


Veal,  cutlets,  fried,  55. 

essence  of,  or  consumee,  1 43. 

fillet,  with  collops,  99- 

ditto,  bombarded,  99. 

fricandeau,  81. 

hams,  253. 

hashed,  64. 

knuckle,  stewed,  63. 

leg,  and  bacon  disguised, 103. 

loin,  en  epigram,  104. 

ditto,   roasted  a   la  bensha- 

melle,  97. 
minced",  64. 

"    ditto,  for  the  sick.  372. 
neck,  a  1'Espagnol,  97. 

braised      with     oyster 

sauce,  98. 

larded,  97.  ragood,  77. 
olives,  99. 
pie,  200. 

ditto,  savoury,  201,  202. 
pillow,  104. 
potted,  243. 
sandwich,  130. 
shoulder,  a  la  haut  gout,  96. 
ditto,  a  la  Piedmontoise,  103. 
stock,  142. 
stove,  105. 
stuffing,  40. 

Venison,  care  of  joints,  13. 
choice  of,  13. 
collared,  241. 
fried,  54. 

haunch,  boiled,  28. 
ditto,  roasted,  38. 
hashed,  66. 
neck,  boiled,  23. 
pasty,  202. 
potted,  247. 
Vermicelli  pudding,  187.- 

soup,  165. 

Vine-leaf  fritters,  223. 
Vinegar,  to  make,  226. 
camp,  157. 

garlic,  and  eschalot;  158. 
gooseberry,  226. 
elder,  226. 
sugar,  226. 


Vinegar  tarragon,  226. 

Yafers,  269. 
Valnuts,  to  keep,  260. 
ketchup,  157. 
mead,  333. 
pickled,  black,  228. 
greew/229. 
olive  colour,  229. 
white,  228. 
preserved,    black,  green, 

and  white,  302. 
water,  343. 
.   wine,  328.    - 
Watergruel  for  the  sick,  375. 
Water  souchee,  75. 
Waters,  cordial,  339  to  345. 
Weavers,  to  broil,  50. 
Wheat-ears,  to  truss,  24. 
Whigs,  279. 
Whipt  cream,  287. 
White  fritters,  219. 

pear  plums,  194. 
puddings  124. 
soup,  1 62. 
Whitings  broiled,  52. 

to  dry  and  dress,  137. 
fillets  of,  128. 
Wild  ducks,  to  hash,  70. 
sauce,  149. 
to  truss,  23. 
Wines,  home  made,  324  to  338. 

spirits  of,  345. 
Woodcocks,  to  boil,  32. 

choice  of,  14. 
pie,  207. 
potted,  246. 
roasted,  44. 
stewed,  69. 
to  truss,  24. 
Yeast,  to  make,  370. 

to  preserve,  370. 
dumplings,  197. 
Yorkshire  Christmas  pie,  212. 
giblet  pie,  204. 
goose  ditto,  204.      •> 
pudding,  182. 


owland,  Printers,  Oofwell  Street,  London 


'. 


