Li 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  485  555  3  o 


Low-Cost  Meals 

for 

High-Cost  Times 


"Every  American  woman  can 
become  and  should  become  the 
food  controller— the  absolute 
food  dictator— of  her  own 
household." 


This  book  tells  you  how  to  do  it. 


The  New  Housekeeping  Department 

THE  LADIES'  HOME  JOURNAL 

INDEPENDENCE  SQUARE 
PHILADELPHIA 

Copyright.  1917.  h  Curtis  Publishing  Comfariy 


6983  B 
1nH67 


^^ 


BOOKS  THAT  HELP 


"Feeding  the  Family,"  by  Mary  Swartz  Rose. 

Published  by  the  MacMillan  Company,  New  York  City. 
"The  Children's  Food,"  by  Mary  Swartz  Rose. 

PubHshed  by  the  National  Special  Aid  Society,  259  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York  City. 
"Better  Meals  for  Less  Money,"  by  Mary  Green. 

Published  by  Henry  Holt  &  Company,  New  York  City. 
"Low-Cost  Cooking,"  by  Florence  Nesbitt. 

Published  by  the  American  School  of  Home  Economics,  506  West  69th  Street,  New  York  City. 
"The  Cook  Book  of  Left-Overs,"  by  Clark  and  Rulon. 

Published  by  Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 
"Made-Over  Dishes,"  by  Mrs.  Rorer. 

Published  by  Arnold  &  Company,  420  Sansom  Street,  Philadelphia. 
"The  Fireless  Cook  Book,"  by  Margaret  J.  Mitchell. 

Published  by  Doubleday,  Page  &  Company,  Garden  City,  New  York. 
"Foods  and  Household  Management,"  by  Kinne  &  Cooley. 

Published  by  the  MacMillan  Company,  New  York  City. 
"Textbook  of  Cooking,"  by  Carlotta  C.  Greer. 

Published  by  AUyn  &  Bacon,  New  York  City. 
"Food  for  the  Worker,"  by  Frances  Stern  and  Gertrude  T.  Spitz. 

Published  by  Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 
"Lessons  in  the  Proper  Feeding  of  the  Family,"  by  Winifred  Gibbs. 

Published  by  New  York  Association  for  Improving  the  Condition  of  the  Poor,  New  York 

City. 
"Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Preparation  of  Meals." 

Published  by  American  School  of  Home  Economics,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

In  order  to  help  our  readers  meet  the  perplexing  problem  of  the  present  high  cost  of  food,  we 
gathered  from  many  places  the  menus  and  suggestions  which  this  book  contains.  A  complete 
report  of  the  New  York  diet  squad  from  which  we  have  reprinted  material  is  published  by  and 
may  be  procured  from  the  Life  Extension  Institute,  25  West  Forty-Fifth  Street,  New  York  City. 
We  have  also  quoted  from  Bulletin  No.  52  of  the  Chicago  Department  of  Health.  Those  who 
wish  to  go  farther  into  the  subject  of  economical  foods  will  find  many  valuable  ideas  in  the  books 
mentioned  above. 

Virginia  E.  Kift, 

New  Housekeeping  Editor. 


NOV  -I  1917 

-  -        OCI.A475783 


Ia/^  »  I    V 


Low  Cost  Meals  for  High  Cost  Times 

MENUS  FROM  THE  NEW  YORK  DIET  SQUAD 

Held  Under  the  Auspices  of  the  Life  Extension  Institute,  New  York  City 

THESE  menus  were  served  in  New  York  City  during  January,  1917,  and  cost  at  that  time 
approximately  twenty-five  cents  a  person  per  day  for  the  three  meals.  The  menus  were  planned 
for  twelve  young  men  who  were  in  active  training  in  the  New  York  City  police  department.  These 
men  pledged  themselves  to  eat  nothing  while  on  the  squad  except  the  food  provided  at  mealtime 
by  the  Life  Extension  Institute,  of  which  Eugene  Lyman  Fish,  M.  D.,  is  medical  director,  and 
under  whose  direction  the  diet  experiment  was  made.  The  average  age  of  the  men  was  26.  The 
average  weight  at  the  start  of  the  experiment  was  169  pounds;   at  the  close  it  was  172  pounds. 

The  menus  form  a  wholesome  diet  for  the  average  active  individual,  although  as  they  stand 
they  are  not  suitable  for  all  classes  of  people.  For  sedentary  people  they  should  be  modified  and 
taken  in  small  quantities.  This  can  be  done  either  by  spending  less  money  on  the  food  or  by 
decreasing  the  amount  of  fuel  food — starches,  sugars  and  fats — and  including  more  fruit  and  green 
vegetables. 

More  eggs  and  milk  are  needed  for  children  and,  if  possible,  more  fruit  and  green  vegetables; 
the  fuel  food  for  children,  however,  must  not  be  reduced.  Tea  and  coffee  were  included  as  conces- 
sions to  the  former  habits  of  those  who  volunteered  to  take  the  diet  experiment,  but  these  are  not 
recommended  for  a  regular  diet. 

MENUS  FOR  FIRST  WEEK* 


Breakfast 

1 

Oatmeal,  Milk 

Buttered  Toast 

Coffee 


Luncheon 


Baked  Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Corn  Bread 

Tea 


Dinner 

1 

Meat  Loaf,  French  Fried  Potatoes 

Graham  Bread 

Date  Pudding  With  Sauce 

Tea 


Hominy 

Bananas,  Milk 

Rolls  and  Coffee 


Baked   Beans  With  Salt  Pork 

Brown  Bread 

Tea 


Goulash 

Vegetables  Steamed  Rice 

Hot  Buscuit 

Apple  Pie 

Tea 


Oatmeal,  Milk 

Two  Slices  of  Toast,  Butter 

Coffee  Milk 


Split  Pea  Soup,  Croutons 

Raisin  Bread,  Butter 

Tea 


Roast  Beef  Heart  Stuffed 

With  Carrots  and  Onions 

Whole-Wheat  Bread,  Butter 

Cornstarch  Pudding 

Tea 


Fried  Mush,  Sirup 

Rolls,  Butter 

Coffee  Milk 


Savory  Rice 

Currant  Rolls,  Butter 

Tea  Milk 


Baked  Haddock,  Stuffed,  Scallopec 

Potatoes 

Graham  Bread 

Fruit  Pudding,  Clear  Sauce 

Tea  Milk 


Hominy,  Milk 

Toast,  Butter 

Coffee 


Baked- Bean  Soup 
French  Toast,  Butter 
Tea 


Kidney  Stew 

Baked  Potatoes 

Whole- Wheat  Bread 

Stewed  Prunes,  Molasses  Cookies 

Butter  Tea 


Oatmeal,  Milk 

Pancakes  and  Sirup 

Coffee 


Sunday  Dinner 

Roast  Pork,  Apple  Sauce 

Wheat  Bread,  Peanut  Butter 

Hominy 

Apricot-Tapioca  Pudding 

Tea 


Sunday  Supper 

Corn  Chowder 

Graham  Bread,  Peanut  Butter 

Tea 


Oatmeal,  Milk 

Rolls,  Butter 

Coffee 


Meat  Soup  With  Barley 

Currant  Bread,  Butter 

Tea 


Beef  Stew  With  Dumplings 

Mashed  Turnips 

Baked  Rice  Pudding  With  Raisins 

Tea 


*The  recipes  for  dishes  mentioned  in  these  menus  are  given  on  page  18. 

3 


MENUS  FOR  SECOND  WEEK 


Breakfast 

1 

Hominy,  Milk 

Graham  Toast,  Nut  Butter 


Luncheon 

1 

Scalloped  Onions,  Peanut  Butter 

Hot  Buns,  Nut  Butter 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

Tea 


Dinner 

1 

Mock  Chicken,  Tomato  Sauce 

Carrots 

Whole-Wheat  Bread,  Nut  Butter 

Chocolate  Blancmange 

Tea 


Oatmeal.  Milk 

Graham  Muffins,  Butter 

Coflfee 


Stewed  Lima  Beans 

Oat  Bread,  Butter 

Tea 


Creamed  Codfish 

Baked  Potato 

Whole-Wheat  Bread,  Butter 

Norwegian  Prune  Pudding 

Tea 


Fried  Hominy  and  Sirup 

Rolls,  Butter 

Coffee 


Spaghetti  and  Cheese 

Pickled  Beets 

Cinnamon  Rolls,  Butter 

Tea 


Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage 

Carrots 

Graham  Bread,  Butter 

Mock  Cherry  Pie 

Tea 


Oatmeal,  Milk 

Toast  With  Butter 

Coffee 


Salmon  Croquettes,  Peas 

Date  Bread  and  Butter 

Tea 


Baked  Split  Peas 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

\\'hole-Wheat  Bread,  Butter 

Sliced  Oranges  and  Bananas 

Tea 


Hominy,  Milk 

Toast,  Nut  Butter 

Coffee 


Welsh  Rarebit  on  Toast 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Hot  Biscuit,  Nut  Butter 

Tea 


Corned  Beef  Hash  With  Vegetables 

Graham  Bread,  Nut  Butter 

Brown  Betty,  Hard  Sauce 

Tea 


Oatmeal,  Milk 
Com  Griddlecakes,  Sirup 
Butter 
Coffee 


SxjNDAY  Dinner 

Rolled  Steak 

Graham  Bread,  Butter 

Mashed  Sweet  Patotoes 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

Cheese  Tea 


Sunday  Supper 
Creamed  Oysters  on  Toast 

Parker  House  Rolls 
Stewed  Peaches  and  Raisins 
Cheese 
Tea 


Hominy,  Milk 

Graham  Toast,  Butter 

Coffee 


Scalloped  Rice  and  Tomatoes 

Corn  Muffins,  Butter 

Apple  Dumplings,  Hard  Sauce 

Tea 


Hamburger  Steak 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Whole- Wheat  Bread 

Cottage  Pudding,  Clear  Sauce 

Tea 


MENUS  FOR  THIRD  WEEK 


Breakfast 

1 
Oatmeal,  Milk 

Crullers 

Rolls,  Butter 

Coffee 


Luncheon 

1 

Potato  Soup  With  Carrots 
Rye  Bread.  Butter 
Stewed  Prunes  and  Gingersnaps 
Tea 


Dinner 
1 

Parsnips,  Baked  With  Sausage  Samp 

Whole- Wheat  Bread.  Butter 

Bread  Pudding,  Fruit  Sau^a 

Tea 


Hominy,  Milk 

Toast,  Butter 

Coffee 


Baked  Lima  Beans 

Boston  Brown  Bread,  Butter 

Sliced  Oranges  and  Bananas 

With  Shredded  Coconut 

Tea 


Liver  and  Bacon 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Whole-Wheat  Bread,  Butter 

Coffee  Jelly 

lea 


Oatmeal,  Milk 

Buttered  Toast 

Coffee 


3 
Macaroni  Croquettes,  Tomato  Sauce 

Graham  Bread,  Butter 

Cornstarch  Pudding,  Raisin  Sauce 

Tea 


Beef  Pot  Roast 

Carrots  and  Onions 

Whole- Wheat  Bread,  Butter 

Caramel  Tapioca 

Tea 


Hominy,  Milk 

Buttered  Toast 

Coffee 


Baked  Rice  and  Cheese 
Raisin  Bread 
Apple  Sauce 
Tea 


Scalloped  Salmon 

German  Fried  Potatoes 

Graham  Bread,  Butter 

Prune  Pie 

Tea 


Oatmeal,  Milk 

Rolls,  Butter 

Coffee 


Fried  Mush,  Sirup 

White  Bread,  Butter 

Stewed  Apricots 

Tea 


Baked  Beans  With  Salt  Pork 

Whole- Wheat  Bread.  Butter 

Molasses  Cake 

Tea 


Sunday  Dinner  Sunday  Supper 

6  6  6 

Oatmeal.  Milk                              X'eal  Loaf  and  Baked  Barley  Kidney  Bean  Stew 

Griddlecakes,  Butter  and  Sirup                 Graham  Bread,  Butter  WTiole-WTieat  Bread.  Butter 

Coffee                                                Pickled  Beets  Apple  Sauce 

Lemon   Milk   Sherbet   and  \'amlla  Cake                           Cheese 

Wafers  Tea 
Tea 

7  7  7 

Horainv.  Milk  Split-Pea  Soup  Codfish  Cakes.  Tomato  Sauce 

Toa^t,  Butter  Toasted  Crackers  Graham  Bread.  Butter 

Coffee  \Miole-\\Tieat  Bread.  Butter  Fruit  Shortcake 

Baked  Bananas  Tea 

Salted  Peanuts 
Tea 

HOW  TO  .VDAPT  THESE  MENUS  FOR  FEEDING  YOUNG  CHILDREN 

By  Mary  Swartz  Rose 
Professor  of  Nutrition,  Columbia  University 

Breakfast 

1 
Oatmeal.  Milk 
Buttered  Toast 

Milk  for  children  to  drink;   coffee  for  adults  only 
Prune  Juice  for  children  under  2 

2 
Hominy.  Milk 

\'ery  Ripe  Bananas  ([Mashed  for  children  under  5) 
Twice- Baked  Rolls  (Toast  for  children  under  5) 
Prune  Juice  for  children  under  2 
Milk  for  children  to  drink;    coffee  for  adults  only 

3 
Oatmeal.  Milk 
Toast.  Butter 

Prune  Juice  for  children  under  2 
Milk  for  children  to  drink;  coffee  for  adults  only 

4 
Fried  Mush  With  Sirup  for  adults  and  children  over  10 
Plain  Hot  Mush  With  Milk  for  younger  children 
Twice-Baked  Rolls  (Toast  for  children  under  5),  Butter 
Orange  Juice  for  children  under  2 
Milk  for  children  to  drink;  coffee  for  adults  only 

5 
Hominy,  Milk 
Toast,  Butter 

Prune  or  Orange  Juice  for  cliildren  under  2 
Milk  for  children  to  drink;  coffee  for  adults  only 

Luncheon 

1 
Baked  Macaroni  and  Cheese   (Chopped  fine  for  children  under  3  and  preferably  without 
cheese) 

Corn  Bread  baked  in  a  thin  sheet  (Stale  whole-wheat  bread  for  children  under  5) 
Milk  or  Cocoa  (Made  with  milk  for  children  to  drink);    tea  for  adults  only 

2 
Baked  Beans,  Salt  Pork 
Brown  Bread  for  adults  and  older  children 
Bean  Soup  and  Whole- Wheat  Bread  for  those  under  7 
Milk  or  Cocoa  (Made  with  milk)  for  children;    tea  for  adults  only 

3 

Split-Pea  soup.  Croutons 

Raisin  Bread,  Butter  (Plain  whole-wheat  bread  for  children  under  5) 

Milk  or  Cocoa  (Made  with  milk  for  children  to  drink);    tea  for  adults  only 

4 
Savorv  Rice 

Currant  Rolls  (Toasted  rolls  from  breakfast  for  children  under  7).  Butter 
Cocoa  for  children  to  drink  (Made  with  milk);   tea  for  adults  only 
Stewed  Raisins  for  children  under  7 


5 
Baked- Bean  Soup  for  all 
French  Toast  for  adults  and  children  over  7 
Plain  Toast  for  younger  children,  Butter 
Apple  Sauce  for  children 
Cocoa  for  children  to  drink  (Made  with  milk);    tea  for  adults  only 

Dinner 

Meat  Loaf  (Not  for  children  under  7) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (Only  for  adults) 

Baked  Potatoes  for  children  (Better  to  bake  potatoes  for  all) 

Cereal  With  Milk  for  children  under  7 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 

Date  Pudding  (Not  for  children  under  10) 

Bread  Pudding  With  Raisins  for  children  (May  be  served  to  all  instead  of  date  pudding) 

Milk  for  children  to  drink 

Stewed  Prunes  for  children  (The  2-year-olds  should  be  in  bed  before  the  family  dinner) 


Goulash  (Only  a  little  of  the  gravy  for  children  under  7) 

Vegetables  (served  liberally  to  children) 

Steamed  Rice  for  all 

Hot  Biscuits  only  for  adults 

Whole-Wheat  Bread  for  children 

Apple  Pie  for  adults 

Brown  Betty  for  children  (May  be  served  to  all  instead  of  pie) 

Milk  for  children  to  use  on  rice  and  Brown  Betty 

Tea  for  adults  only 

3 

Roast  Beef  Heart  Stuffed  With  Carrots  and  Onions  (Not  for  children  under  7,  except  the 
vegetables,  which  should  be  served  the  children  liberally,  being  put  through  a  sieve  for  those 
under  3 

Boiled  Rice  With  Milk  for  children  under  7 

Stewed  Dried  Apples  for  children  (2-year-olds  being  in  bed) 

Cornstarch  pudding  for  all 

Tea  for  adults  only 

4 

Baked  Haddock  (Not  for  children  under  3) 

Scalloped  Potatoes 

Whole-Wheat  Biead 

Fruit  Pudding,  Clear  Sauce  (For  adults  and  children  over  10) 

Baked  Corn-Meal  Pudding  With  Raisins  for  younger  children 

Milk  for  children  to  drink  with  bread  and  pudding;   tea  for  adults  only 

5 

Kidney  Stew  (not  for  children  under  7) 

Baked  Potatoes  for  all 

Vegetables  (Carrots,  turnips,  cooked  with  kidney  for  children 

Whole-Wheat  Bread,  Butter 

Stewed  Prunes,  Molasses  Cookies 

Milk  for  children  to  drink;   tea  for  adults  only 

A  GUIDE  IN  FEEDING  CHILDREN 

A  LITTLE  child  who  is  carefully  fed  in  accordance  with  his  bodily  needs,  as  these  are  now 
understood,  receives  every  day  at  least  one  food  from  each  of  the  following  groups: 

(1)  Milk  and  dishes  made  chiefly  of  milk,  most  important  of  the  groups  as  regards  children's 
diet;  meat,  fish,  poultry,  eggs  and  meat  substitutes. 

(2)  Bread  and  other  cereal  foods. 

(3)  Butter  and  other  wholesome  fats. 

(4)  Vegetables  and  fruits. 

(5)  Simple  sweets. 

A  simple  rule  is  to  make  a  quart  of  milk  the  basis  of  a  child's  daily  food,  no  matter  whether 
the  child's  age  is  two  or  ten.  This  does  not  mean  that  the  child  must  drink  it  all;  it  may  be 
served  in  puddings,  custards,  soups,  junket,  or  with  cereals.  This,  with  a  well-cooked  cereal,  an 
egg,  fruit  or  fruit  juice  and  a  fresh  green  vegetable  and  crusty  bread,  gives  a  child  the  necessary 
food  for  his  daily  growth  and  activity. 


MY  EXPERIENCES  ON  THE  PHILADELPHIA  DIET  SQUAD 

By  Lisella  Neukom 

NOTE — The  menus  served  to  the  Philadelphia  diet  squad  were  identical  with  those  served  to  the 
"  Rookies"  in  the  New  York  experiment.    Both  diet  squads  were  held  under  the  direction  of  the  Life  Extension 

Institute. 

FIRST  let  me  assure  you  that  we  all  had  enough  to  eat.  We  were  not  hungry  between  meals, 
and  none  of  us  ate  a  thing  except  what  was  served  us  at  the  squad  table.  All  of  us  were  in 
better  physical  condition  when  we  stopped  than  when  we  began.  When  we  went  on  the  diet 
squad  we  just  ate  balanced,  sane  meals — meals  any  normal  person  could  relish.  They  were  meals 
to  give  any  ordinary  adult  proper  nourishment  and  keep  him  in  good  physical  condition.  We  had 
fish,  meat,  pies,  cake,  fruits,  puddings,  pan  cakes — in  fact,  all  sorts  of  things;  so  you  see  we  were 
not  on  a  diet  as  sick  people  are  put  on  a  diet,  which  is  the  first  thing  most  people  think  of  when 
you  say  "diet"  to  them. 

The  Philadelphia  diet  squad  was  held  in  the  middle  of  a  cold  Eastern  winter.  Fresh  vegetables 
were  expensive;  eggs  were  dear;  butter  was  costly.  Still  we  had  plenty  of  good,  wholesome 
food — three  meals  for  twenty-five  cents — because  science  came  to  the  rescue.  In  spite  of  the  high 
prices  of  certain  things,  the  dietitian  obtained  food  which  gave  us  as  much  nourishment  at  much 
less  cost  than  higher-priced  foods.  In  order  to  take  this  message  of  economy  to  women  throughout 
the  nation,  to  show  them  that  even  in  these  war  times  they  can  reduce  their  food  bills  materially 
and  improve  their  health  proportionately,  the  Life  Extension  Institute  plans  to  hold  diet  squads 
in  every  nook  and  corner  of  the  country. 

The  Philadelphia  squad  was  made  up  of  social-service  workers  and  myself,  a  reporter  from 
the  Philadelphia  Evening  Ledger.  We  all  went  about  our  regular  duties.  Some  of  us  gained  in 
flesh,  some  of  us  lost,  but  all  showed  improved  blood  pressure,  intestinal  activity  and  general 
physical  condition.  No  one  on  our  squad  missed  a  meal  or  was  ill  a  day  during  the  two  weeks. 
The  dietitian  took  the  weights,  kind  of  work  the  "  squadders  "  did,  the  number  of  hours  they  spent 
at  work  and  the  amount  of  sleep  they  took,  and  then  computed,  according  to  science,  how  much 
food  we  should  have,  just  as  an  engineer  figures  out  how  much  coal  his  engine  needs.  It  was 
seldom  that  we  needed  to  go  over  the  amount  allotted,  although  we  had  the  privilege  of  doing  so 
whenever  we  wished. 

"Well,  that  may  be  all  right,"  j'ou  say,  "  but  suppose  you  have  a  big,  fat  husband.  He  would 
starve  on  'diet  squad'  fare,  wouldn't  he?" 

On  the  Philadelphia  diet  squad  we  had  a  man  who  weighed  nearly  two  hundred  pounds — an  ex- 
prizefighter,  and  his  appetite  was  anything  but  small !  He  had  been  in  the  habit — for  he  admitted 
it  was  only  a  habit  after  all — of  "consuming"  a  steak,  or  a  huge  serving  of  meat  stew,  several  pota- 
toes, side  dishes  of  vegetables  and  a  dessert,  to  say  nothing  of  large  quantities  of  bread  and  butter — 
all  at  one  meal. 

And  this  man  told  me,  after  eating  on  the  squad,  that  he  had  never  realized  how  futile  it  had 
been  to  overload  his  stomach  and  clog  his  system  with  so  much  food.  "Why,  I  never  needed  that 
much."  he  said,  "although  I  thought  I  really  did  need  it.  I  must  admit  this  diet  squad  has  been  a 
regular  awakening  for  me.  I  have  not  been  hungry  between  meals.  I  have  had  plenty  to  eat.  And 
I  have  learned  to  eat  things  I  thought  I  did  not  like.  I  have  learned,  too,  that  I  have  been  eating 
too  much  for  my  own  good  for  years." 

The  secret  of  it  was  that  he  was  eating  balanced  meals.  He  was  getting  full  value  in  nourish- 
ment and  blood  for  every  particle  of  food  he  ate.  He  worked  twelve  hours  a  day,  and,  although 
his  work  was  heavy  manual  labor,  he  had  enough  to  eat  at  three  meals  for  twenty-five  cents.  The 
meals  were  so  arranged  that  things  worked  together  to  give  him  the  correct  amount  of  nourish- 
ment. For  instance,  if  we  had  a  main  course  with  small  nourishment  value,  a  dessert  with  a  large 
amount  of  nourishment  was  served.  One  night  we  had  a  main  course  with  little  food  value,  so  we 
had  apple-sauce  cake,  which  is  high  in  food  value,  for  dessert.  The  same  thing  was  done  one  night 
when  we  were  given  a  Norwegian  prune  pudding  for  dessert,  which  had  twice  the  food  value  of  the 
main  course,  which  had  been  creamed  codfish. 

While  one  woman  is  trying  to  feed  her  fat  husband  another  is  working  hard  to  know  what 
to  give  her  thin  one  so  he  will  gain  flesh.  Strange  as  it  may  seem,  the  table  of  weights  on  our 
squad  showed  that  eating  the  proper  amount  of  food,  not  too  much  and  not  too  little,  automat- 
ically corrects  physical  faults.  The  thin  man  puts  on  flesh.  The  fat  ones  reduce,  and  the  folks 
who  weigh  up  right,  according  to  standard,  remain  about  the  same. 

These  menus,  as  scientitically  announced  by  the  Life  Extension  Institute,  are  not  correct  for 
growing  children,  but  must  be  supplemented  by  large  quantities  of  milk  and  eggs. 

During  the  two  weeks'  experiment  we  had  guests,  men  prominent  in  political,  educational, 
philanthropic  and  business  life  of  Philadelphia.  They  came  with  a  sneer  usually,  "just  to  see." 
They  went  away  full  of  stomach  and  convinced  that  science  can  aid  the  American  housewife  to 
solve  her  problem  of  "feeding  the  family."  One  man,  worth  much  money,  told  us  he  usually  ate 
enough  for  three  people  simply  from  force  of  habit.  But  he  said  he  had  never  realized  this  was 
true  until  he  ate  with  the  diet  squad.  He  had  just  the  same  luncheon  we  had.  He  ate  savory  rice, 
currant  rolls,  butter,  tea  and  milk  and  went  away  satisfied. 

You  may  not  be  able  to  prepare  these  menus  and  recipes  at  the  same  prices  as  the  diet  squads 
did,  for  it  is  impossible  nowadays  to  predict  next  month's  food  prices.  However,  you  may  be  sure 
of  one  thing:  These  menus,  with  an  omission  here  and  a  substitution  there,  to  fit  your  individual 
circumstances,  will  help  you  to  feed  your  family  nourishing,  health-giving  food  at  the  lowest  pos- 
sible prices  in  these  high-cost  times. 


FOOD,  FUEL  FOR  THE  HUMAN  ENGINE 

By  Eugene  Lyman  Fish,  M.  D. 

Medical  Director,  Life  Extension  Institute 

Repriyiled  by  permission 

THE  body  needs  fuel,  just  as  an  engine  needs  fuel.  An  engine  must  have  the  right  kind  and 
the  right  amount  of  fuel,  or  it  cannot  work  well.  And  the  human  body  also  must  have  the 
right  kind  and  amount  of  food  or  it  cannot  work  well.  The  human  body  is  doing  some  work 
all  the  time,  even  in  sleep,  in  sickness  and  when  resting.  Heart,  muscles  and  lungs  are  always 
"on  the  job." 

An  engine  has  to  be  built  and  repaired,  to  be  stoked,  to  be  oiled  and  regulated.  It  is  the  same 
with  the  human  body:  We  need 

Fuel  Food,  Building  or  Repair  Food,  Regulating  Food. 

FEEDING  THE  HUMAN  FURNACE 

SUPPOSE  we  have  all  these  kinds  of  food  in  the  pantry  and  the  coal  to  cook  them.  Are  we  safe? 
By  no  means.  We  may  not  serve  these  foods  in  the  right  proportion.  For  example:  too 
much  or  too  little  fuel  food,  too  little  regulating  food,  or  too  much  building  or  repair  food.  Per- 
haps the  food  may  be  eaten  in  the  wrong  way  or  under  unfavorable  conditions. 

Let  us  suppose  that  we  have  the  right  kind  of  food,  properly  cooked.  How  are  we  to  get  it 
into  the  human  furnace  so  that  we  shall  get  the  full  value  of  it  without  clinkers  or  without  undue 
waste  or  injury  to  the  engine  and  the  machinery? 

You  may  say:  "Just  swallow  it."  Many  do  this  and  suffer  injury.  They  put  food  into  the 
stomach  as  you  would  pack  a  trunk,  or  fill  a  pail.  Many  foods  (bread,  cereals,  cake,  potatoes  and 
the  like)  are  partly  digested  in  the  mouth,  and  all  foods  are  prepared  in  the  mouth  for  reception 
into  the  stomach.  Many  foods  (meat,  fish,  eggs,  chicken,  parts  of  cereals,  bread  and  other  foods) 
are  partly  digested  in  the  stomach  and  prepared  for  further  digestion  in  the  bowels.  From  the 
bowels  the  various  classes  of  foods  are  conveyed  where  they  are  needed  for  work  (fuel),  for  building 
or  repair,  and  for  regulating  the  blood  and  organs.  Mouth,  stomach  and  bowels  must  do  team 
work  if  your  body  is  to  be  properly  nourished. 

Therefore:  You  must  chew  your  food  thoroughly  until  it  naturally  slides  down  the  gullet. 
Don't  count  your  chews  or  think  of  your  chews,  but  "Taste"  your  food  thoroughly.  You  will  be 
surprised  at  the  extra  flavor  and  enjoyment  and  you  will  not  eat  so  much.  Eating  keeps  you  alive. 
It  is  worth  doing  well. 

Be  cheerful.  Do  not  worry  about  your  food,  or  anj'thing  else.  Bring  no  grouch  to  the  dinner 
table.  Eat  regularly,  even  though  not  hungry.  If  not  hungry,  eat  little.  As  the  hour  for  a  meal 
approaches,  the  thought  of  food  makes  the  juice  in  the  mouth  flow.  Your  mouth  waters.  As  yoU 
chew  your  food,  and  taste  it  thoroughly,  the  juice  of  the  stomach  flows  and  good  digestion  is 
assured.  Your  stomach  stops  working  when  you  are  angry,  worried  or  unduly  excited.  A  little 
rest  before  and  after  meals  is  good. 

Let  mealtime  be  a  time  of  good  cheer.    It  is  no  time  to  discuss  troubles. 

Don't  unload  all  the  worries  of  the  day  at  the  dinner  table.  Talk  them  over  when  the  body 
and  mind  are  rested  and  digestion  has  well  started,  and  you  will  find  your  way  out  of  trouble  much 
more  easily. 

The  story  of  diet  and  good  feeding  is  very  simple.  Approach  it  as  you  would  any  other  simple 
story.  Do  not  think  that  because  it  concerns  the  body  it  is  necessarily  mysterious,  a  complex 
scientific  matter  that  only  experts  can  understand.  Read  the  story  of  the  diet  squad  and  feed 
the  family  in  an  understanding  way  instead  of  by  a  hit-or-miss  method  that  a  farmer  would  scorn 
to  use  in  feeding  hogs  or  horses. 

FUEL  FOODS 

A  WORKER  at  a  desk  or  at  a  machine  where  he  does  no  hard  labor  requires  only  about  half  the 
fuel  that  is  necessary  for  a  very  hardworking  man,  a  woodsawyer  for  example.  A  farmer 
needs  about  one-third  more  fuel  than  the  average  desk  worker.  The  average  woman  taking  little 
exercise  needs  about  one-third  less  fuel  than  an  average  man,  who  has  more  muscular  tissue  and  is 
more  active.  Children  need  a  lot  of  fuel,  as  they  burn  it  quickly.  A  girl  fourteen  to  seventeen 
years  of  age  will  need  as  much  or  more  than  a  full-grown  woman  and  a  boy  of  the  same  age  more 
than  a  full-grown  business  man.  So  people  vary  in  their  fuel  needs  just  as  different  types  of  auto- 
mobiles vary  in  the  amount  of  gasoline  they  need. 

The  following  list  shows  the  main  fuel  foods.  These  are  the  great  foundation  foods  of  the 
diet,  the  foods  that  supply  energy  for  muscular  work.  Mental  work  requires  so  little  extra  fuel 
that  it  is  not  necessary  to  consider  it  specially. 

There  are  three  main  groups  of  fuel  foods.  Here  they  are  in  order  of  cost  per  calory — that 
is,  those  giving  most  energy  for  the  money  heading  the  list. 

Starchy  Foods  Sugars  Fats 


Corn  meal 

Cornstarch 

Sugar 

Butter 

Drippings 

Hominy 

Dried  Lima  beans 

Corn  sirup 

Cream 

Lard 

Broken  rice 

Split  peas,  yellow 

Dates 

Salt  pork 

Oatmeal 

Dried  navy  beans 

Candy 

Oleomargarine 

Flour 

Bread 

Molasses 

Nutmargarine 

Rice 

Potatoes 

Most  fruits 

Peanut  butter 

Macaroni 

Bananas 

Milk 

Spaghetti 

Bacon 

About  85  per  cent,  of  the  fuel  (calories)  should  come  from  this  group,  using  starchy  foods  in 
largest  amounts,  fats  next  and  sugars  least.  Fats,  starchy  foods  and  sugars  are  almost  pure  fuel, 
like  coal,  while  cereal  foods  also  contain  some  building  and  regulating  material. 

Building  and  Repair  Foods 
The  body  is  continually  rebuilding  worn  parts,  and  needs  several  kinds  of  food  for  this  pur- 
pose.   In  general,  building  foods  fall  into  two  classes,  called  "Proteins"  and  "Mineral  Salts." 

Protein  Food  or  "Body  Bricks" 
Proteins  may  be  compared  to  building  bricks  and  are  represented  in  the  diet  by  lean  meat  of  all 
sorts  (including  fish,  shell  food  and  fowl),  milk,  cheese,  eggs,  dried  peas  and  beans,  lentils  and  nuts. 
There  is  also  a  fair  amount  of  protein  in  cereals  and  bread  (about  10  per  cent,)  which  are  both 
building  and  fuel  foods.  Eggs  and  flesh  foods  need  to  be  limited  in  quantity  because  too  much  of 
them  may  make  trouble  for  the  human  machine,  leaving  in  the  body,  when  burned  (digested), 
wastes  that  may  be  likened  to  "clinkers"  in  the  furnace. 

Most  foods  contain  some  protein,  but  those  here  mentioned  are  richest  in  protein,  and  hence 
are  termed  building  or  repair  foods. 

Protein  foods  for  building  and  repair  in  order  of  their  cost,  those  giving  most  building  and 
repair  v'alue  for  the  money  heading  the  list. 

Beans  (dried  white)  Macaroni 

Dried  Peas  Mutton,  Leg 

Oatmeal  Beef,  Lean  rump 

Cornmeal  Milk  (9  cents  a  quart) 

Beans,  dried  Lima  Beef,  Lean  round 

Bread  Lamb,  Leg 

Bread,  whole-wheat  Eggs  (24  cents  a  dozen) 

Bread,  Graham  Halibut 

Salt  cod  Porterhouse  steak 

Milk,  skimmed  (6  cents  a  quart)  Eggs  (36  cents  a  dozen) 

Cheese  (American)  Almonds,  shelled 

Peanuts 
The  very  high  protein  or  repair  foods  (meat,  fish,  eggs,  and  fowl)  should  be  eaten  once  a  day. 
The  rest  of  the  repair  material  needed  will  be  found  in  sufficient  quantity  in  the  balance  of  the 
diet.  Muscular  labor,  which  increases  the  need  for  fuel  (calories)  does  not  materially  increase 
the  need  for  bricks,  or  proteins.  It  is  a  mistake  to  think  that  eating  meat  gives  special  strength 
for  work.  Starchy  foods,  fat  and  sugar,  are  the  great  sources  of  working  force.  To  burn  meat  for 
fuel  is  like  burning  mahogany  or  rosewood  for  kindling  wood,  or  burning  wood  that  is  full  of  bolts 
and  nails,  or  covered  with  mortar.        Mineral  Salts 

THE  second  kind  of  building  material  includes  a  variety  of  minerals  which  help  to  make  bones, 
blood  and  other  body  parts.  They  are  found  chiefly  in  milk,  cereal  foods  (when  made  from 
whole  grains),  fruits  and  vegetables.  Of  these  minerals,  lime,  iron  and  phosphorus  are  especially 
needed  to  keep  the  body  in  healthy  condition.  In  a  diet  that  daily  includes  milk,  green  vege- 
tables, fruit,  and  cereals  made  from  whole  grains  (oatmeal,  flaked  wheat,  wheatena,  etc.,)  there 
is  little  danger  of  mineral  starvation.  Where  the  diet  is  v-ery  limited,  with  white  flour,  fats  and 
sugar  forming  the  chief  foods,  there  is  such  danger.  A  pint  of  milk  a  day  is  the  best  insurance 
against  lime  and  phosphorus  lack.  Cereals,  fruits  and  green  vegetables  will  furnish  iron,  and  may 
be  supplemented  by  eggs  (especially  yolks)  and  meat  for  this  purpose. 

Regulating  Foods 

(1)  Mineral  salts.  These  serve  two  purposes  in  the  body.  They  are  building  foods,  as  stated 
above,  and  also  help  to  keep  the  body  macliinery  running  properly. 

(2)  Water.  Water  is  one  of  the  most  important  of  regulating  foods.  Most  people  drink  too 
little.  A  glass  in  the  morning  on  arising,  one  before  each  meal,  and  another  on  going  to  bed,  or, 
a  glass  at  each  meal,  and  one  between  meals,  are  good  rules.  Water  at  meals  is  beneficial  except 
for  persons  who  are  too  fat.  They  should  avoid  much  water  at  meals  and  drink  a  lot  between  meals. 

(3)  Ballast  or  bulk — A  diet  which  contains  no  vegetable  fiber  is  insufficient  except  for  babies. 
This  fiber  is  found  in  graham  or  whole  wheat  bread,  leaves  and  skins  of  plants  and  skins  of  fruit. 
Examples  are:  Vegetables — Lettuce,  parsnips,  carrots,  turnips,  celery,  oj'ster  plant,  cabbage, 
Brussels  sprouts,  tomatoes,  salsify,  Spanish  onions,  spinach.  Fruit — Apples  (baked  or  raw), 
pears,  currants,  raspberries,  cranberries,  prunes,  dates,  figs.  (Fruit  three  times  daily,  but  espe- 
cially before  bedtime).  This  ballast  or  bulk  counteracts  constipation  and  gives  adequate  work 
to  teeth,  jaws,  stomach  and  bowels.    These  organs  will  degenerate  if  allowed  to  "loaf." 

(4)  Hard  foods — The  bulky  foods  just  mentioned  assist  in  inducting  proper  chewing  of 
foods,  but  proper  chewing  and  vigorous  use  of  the  teeth  and  jaws  is  further  secured  by  including 
in  the  diet  hard  foods  such  as  crusts,  hard  crackers,  toast.  Zwieback,  fibrous  vegetables  and  fruits, 
like  celery  and  nuts.    Chewing  hard  foods  means  more  health  and  less  dentist's  bills. 

(5)  Accessories  or  vitamines — There  are  minute  substances  (vitamines)  present  in  very  small 
quantities  in  a  number  of  foods  and  apparently  absolutely  necessary  to  health,  but  not  found  in 
all  kinds  of  food  material.  This  is  one  more  reason  for  variety  in  the  diet.  Milk,  eggs,  whole 
wheat,  corn,  oatmeal,  potatoes  and  oranges  are  some  of  the  foods  known  to  contain  them.  The 
skins  or  hulls  of  cereals  are  also  good  for  this  reason,  and  fresh  meat,  fresh  peas  and  beans.  Cook- 
ing reduces  the  amount  of  vitamines  in  most  foods.  Hence,  as  a  matter  of  safety,  orange  juice 
should  be  given  to  children  when  pasteurized  milk  is  the  clii-^f  food.  Adults  would  do  well  to  eat 
some  raw  food  and  fresh  fruk  daily. 


Summary 

Is  it  necessary  to  know  how  many  calories  you  are  getting  each  day,  or  how  many  ounces 
of  protein? 

By  no  means. 

The  following  rules  will  make  it  possible  for  you  to  feed  yourself  and  your  family  without 
weighing  your  food  or  counting  your  calories: 

Weigh  yourself  twice  a  month.  If  you  are  above  the  average  weight  you  need  less  fuel.  If 
you  are  very  light  in  weight  and  losing  weight,  you  need  more  fuel. 

Try  to  have  some  bulky  food,  some  raw  food,  some  whole  cereal,  some  fruit  and  some  milk 
in  your  diet  each  day. 

Eat  high  protein  foods  (meat,  fish,  fowl,  eggs)  only  once  a  day  in  moderate  amount.  Have 
one  or  two  meatless  days  a  week. 

ADVICE  FOR  SPECIAL  TYPES  OF  PEOPLE 

YOU  who  are  overweight  remember  that  you  are  carrying  a  burden  that  may  break  down  your 
health.  You  should  eat  less  of  fats,  starchy  foods,  and  sugars,  and  you  should  avoid  alcoholic 
drinks.  Eat  more  fruit  and  vegetables,  especially  cabbage,  lettuce,  celery,  spinach,  string  beans, 
cucumbers,  carrots,  tomatoes,  turnips  and  sea  kale.    Exercise  daily. 

You  who  are  pale  and  thin,  and  losing  weight,  eat  freely  of  all  the  foods  in  the  menus  and 
watch  your  weight  and  your  color.  Do  deep  breathing  and  setting-up  exercises.  Try  to  get  more 
fresh  fruit,  vegetables  and  egg  yolks  if  possible. 

You  who  are  constipated — Eat  freely  of  whole  cereals,  bran,  lemon  juice,  and  orange  juice, 
cabbage,  and  other  bulky  vegetables  Strictly  avoid  mineral  water,  pills,  laxatives.  Use  mineral 
oil  if  necessary,  one  or  two  ounces  at  night.  Exercise,  use  water  between  meals  freely,  and  have 
regular  times  for  bowel  movements.    If  such  natural  methods  are  not  sufficient,  consult  a  doctor. 

You  who  work  at  desks — Eat  lightly  of  the  starches,  fats  and  sugars,  and  try  to  get  plenty  of 
fruit,  green  vegetables  and  milk. 

You  who  are  doing  heavy  work — Eat  freely.  Watch  your  weight.  Eat  enough  to  keep  your 
weight  at  the  average  for  age  30.  Do  not  put  on  great  layers  of  flesh.  Fat  is  not  good  for  a  prize- 
fighter; it  is  not  good  for  you.  All  men  should  be  "in  training"  all  the  time;  always  "fit";  good 
muscles;  no  pads  of  useless,  burdensome  fat.  Cut  down  on  the  bread  and  butter,  sugar,  puddings, 
and  cereals  if  you  find  yourself  climbing  up  the  scale.  Potatoes  do  not  matter.  They  are  80  per 
cent,  water,  but  valuable  food,  and  you  are  not  likely  to  eat  enough  of  them  to  count  heavily. 

You  who  are  moderately  active,  not  at  hard  labor  but  still  moving  about  and  not  at  a  desk 
or  machine  all  the  time,  eat  moderately  and  include  some  fresh  fruit  and  green  vegetables  in 
you  diet. 

You  who  think  this  is  all  nonsense — go  to  the  census  records,  and  you  will  find  that  one-half 
the  people  died  before  60  years  of  age,  many  of  them  because  they  did  not  know  how  to  feed 
their  bodies. 

MENUS  FROM  RECIPES  FROM  CHICAGO  DIET  SQUAD* 
Held  Under  the  Auspices  of  the  Chicago  Health  Department 

THESE  menus  were  served  in  Chicago,  Illinois,  during  November  and  December,  1916,  and 
at  that  time  cost  between  thirty  and  forty  cents  a  day,  averaging  for  the  two  weeks  thirty- 
one  cents  a  day  for  each  person  on  the  squad.  The  food  supplies  were  purchased  in  the  open 
market  at  prevailing  market  prices.  The  food  consumed  by  the  squad  cost  no  less  than  the 
same  articles  purchased  in  the  same  way  by  any  Chicago  housewife. 


Breakfast 

1 

Fresh  Apples 

Liver  and  Bacon 

One-Egg  Muffins,  Butter 

Coffee 


FIRST  WEEK 

Luncheon 

1 

Creamed  Codfish 

Baked  Potatoes 

Corn  Bread,  Butter 

Cocoa 


Dinner 

1 
Vegetable  Soup 

Pot  Roast 

Saute  Parsnips 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Rice  and  Raisin  Pudding 

Tea 


2 

Apples 

Rolled  Oats 

Hot  Biscuits,  Butter 

Coffee 


Hamburger  Steak 

Buttered  Hominy 

Apple  Sauce 

Currant  Cake 

Cocoa 


Puree  of  Lima  Beans 

New  England  Boiled  Dinner 

Bread  and  Butter 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 

Tea 


Stewed  Pears 

Griddlecakes,  Sirup 

Coffee 


Beef  and  Rice  Croquettes 

Peas  and  Carrots 

Bread  and  Butter 

Gingerbread 

Tea 


Tomato  Soup 

Halibut  Steak 

Parsley  Potatoes 

Bread  and  Butter 

Cream  Tapioca  Pudding 

Tea 


Stewed  Prunes 

Rolled  Oats 

Buttered  Toast 

Coffee 


Lamb  Fricassee  With  Dumplings 

Waldorf  Salad 

Bread  and  Butter 

Tea 


Split-Pea  Soup 
Roast  Veal 
Boiled  Rice 

Bread  Pudding 
Tea 


10 


Oranges 

Shredded  Wheat 

Toast 

Coffee 


Sunday  Night  Supper 

Cold  Sliced  Meat 

Country  Fried  Potatoes 

Bread  and  Butter 

Apple  Sauce 

Tea 


A  Sunday  Dinner 

Julienne  Soup 

Roast  Pork 

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Tea 


Stewed  Apricots 

Corn-Meal  Mush 

Buttered  Toast 

Coffee 


Macaroni  au  Gratin 

Harvard  Beets 

Bread  and  Butter 

Cottage  Pudding,  Chocolate  Sauce 

Tea 


Celery  Soup 
.Cannelon  of  Beef 

Turkish  Pilaf 

Bread  and  Butter 

Apple  Cobbler,   Vanilla  Sauce 

Tea 


Bananas 

Oatmeal 

Hot  Biscuits 

Coffee 


Chipped  Beef  on  Toast 

Cabbage  Salad 

Corn  Bread 

Tea 


Cream  of  Lima- Bean  Soup 

Mock  Tenderloin  of  Beef 

Spaghetti 

Norwegian  Pudding,  Custard  Sa;ice 

Tea 


*The  recipes  for  most  of  the  dishes  mentioned  in  these  menus  are  given  on  page  28. 

SECOND  WEEK 
Breakfast  Luncheon  Dinner 


Baked  Apples 
ench  Toast,  Sirup 
:offee  or  Postum 

Clam  Chowder 

Corn  Bread,  Butter 

Hunter's  Pudding 

Lemon  Sauce 

Tea 

Spaghetti  Soup 

Meat  Pie 

Succotash 

Bread,  Butter 

Prune  Jelly 

Tea 

9 
Oranges 

9 
Supper 

9 
Thanksgiving-Day  Dinner 

Waffles,  Sirup 
Coffee 

Brown  Fricassee  of  Oysters 

Bread,  Butter 

Assorted  Fresh  Fruits 

Drop  Cakes 

Cocoa 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup 
Roast  Chicken  With  Dressing  and 

Giblet  Gravy 

Mashed  Potatoes                    Turnips 

Celery      Cranberry  Sauce 

Apple  Pie 

Demitasse 

10 

Stewed  Figs 

Rolled  Oats 

Toast,  Butter 

Coffee 

10 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

Boston  Raisin  Bread 

Celery  and  Date  Salad 

Tea 

10 

Tomato  Soup 

Baked  Lake  Trout 

Potatoes 

Bread,  Butter 

W'ashington  Cream  Pie 

Tea 

11 
Stewed  Pears 

Hominy 

Toast,  Butter 

Coffee 

11 

Codfish  Balls 

Philadelphia  Relish 

Bread,  Butter 

Apple  Dumplings,  Vanilla  Sauce 

Tea 

11 
Vegetable  Soup 
Braised  Beef 
Buttered  Rice         Stewed  Onions 

Chocolate  Junket 

Sugar  Cookies 

Tea 

Grapefruit 

Griddlecakes,  Sirup 

Coffee 


13 
Apples 
Corn- Meal  Mush 
Toast 


Sunday  Night  Supper 

Lvonnaise  Potatoes 

Cold  Meat 

Sugar  Cookies 

Cocoa 


13 
Split-Pea  Souo 

Beef  Stew 

Bread,  Butterine 

Lemon  Tarts 

Tea 


A  Sunday  Dinner 

Consomme  With  Rice 

Leg  of  Lamb 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Cauliflower 

Mock  Plum  Pudding,  Hard  Sauce 

Tea 

13 

Potato  Soup 

Veal  Loaf 

Hominy 

Pickled  Beets 

Bread  and  Butterine 

Fruit  Jelly 

Tea 


14 

Oranges 

Rolled  Oats  With  Dates 

French  Toast  Bacon 

Bread  and  Butter 

Coffee 


14 

Oyster  Puree 

Hearts  of  Celery 

Cottage  Cheese  Salad 

Hot  Rolls.  Butter 

Dutch  Apple  Cake 

Tea 


14 
Dinner 

Turkish  Soup 

Roast  Loin  of  Pork,  Cranberry  Sauce 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Georgian  Style 

Scalloped  Onions 

Bread,  Butter 

Old-Fashioned  Rice  Pudding 

Tea 


11 


A  FEW  RULES  FOR  MARKETING 

By  Lillian  A.  Kemp 
Director  of  the  School  of  Domestic  Arts  and  Sciences,  Chicago 
(Miss  Kemp  helped  to  prepare  the  menus  and  marketing  orders  for  the  Chicago  Diet  Squad) 

Watch  market  quotations  and  food  advertisements  daily. 

Go  to  market  and  make  your  own  selections,  thereby  getting  better  values. 

Buy  staples  in  bulk  as  far  as  possible,  avoiding  canned  and  packaged  goods. 

Make  a  special  effort  to  limit  use  of  butter  and  eggs. 

When  high  prices  prevail  use  butter  substitute. 

Purchase  fruits  and  vegetables  in  season. 

Don't  forget  that  overestimating  means  additional  expense,  so  watch  table  refuse;  it  will 
guide  you  in  both  planning  and  buying. 

REMEMBER  WHEN  MAKING  OUT  MENUS 

By  Mrs.  Lynden  Evans 
President  of  the  School  of  Domestic  Arts  and  Sciences,  Chicago 
First:    Snapshot   menus  are  always  expensive.     Menus  should   be  carefully  planned  for 
several  days,  bearing  in  mind: 

What  will  satisfy  the  group  in  variety  and  flavor.         Quantity  and  cost  in  buying. 
What  will  keep  the  group  in  health.  Wise  marketing. 

Do  your  menu  making  without  discussion.  If  it  is  right  your  family  will  be  satisfied. 
Second:  The  use  of  less  expensive  foods  is  entirely  satisfactory  when  they  are  properly 
prepared  and  served.  The  cost  of  living  is  affected  in  a  large  degree  by  skill  or  carelessness.  Get- 
ting good  use  of  your  money  is  of  equal  importance  with  getting  the  money.  Careless  buying 
boosts  prices.  .  .  .  The  woman  who  undertakes  the  management  of  a  home  without  knowing 
how  is  on  a  par  with  the  man  who  marries  without  being  able  to  support  a  home. 

SOME  HOME  JOURNAL  HELPS 

THE  following  articles  have  all  appeared  in  The  Ladies'  Home  Journal,  but  have  such  a 
direct  bearing  on  the  "Low-Cost  Meal"  problem  that  they  are  here  reprinted  by  special 
permission.  Although  rapidly  changing  prices  make  the  figures  mentioned  in  some  of  these  articles 
seem  low,  the  substance  is  just  as  applicable  now  as  formerly. 

CUTTING  OUT  THE  ICE  BILL 

By  Mrs.  E.  H.  Moore 

KEEPING  food  in  hot  weather  was  a  troublesome  problem  until  we  devised  an  iceless  refrig- 
erator which  is  satisfactory  and  costs  nothing  for  upkeep. 

Our  water  pipes  run  from  the  street  mains  into  the  cellar  at  the  front  and  continue  exposed 
almost  the  length  of  the  cellar,  being  hung  in  a  simple  way  from  the  ceiling.  We  noticed  that  the 
pipes  were  always  cold  and  that  on  warm  days  the  water  sometimes  dripped  from  them  to  the 
floor.  This  continued  coldness  in  the  pipes  took  the  place  of  ice  in  the  refrigerator.  The  sketch 
shows  how  we  utilized  this. 

The  necessary  tools  were  a  pipe  wrench,  a  pipe  cutter  and  a  vise.  The  main  supply  pipe  was 
cut  to  make  all  the  water  in  the  house  pass  through  the  coil  of  the  cooler.  Provision  was  made  for 
valves,  as  shown  on  the  sketch,  so  that  the  coil  might  readily  be  drained  and  cut  off  from  the 
main  supply  pipe — to  prevent  freezing  in  winter.  The  coil  was  constructed  so  that  these  cold- 
water  pipes  were  on  two  sides  of  the  food. 

It  might  be  better  to  inclose  three  sides  and  the  top  and  the 
bottom  with  these  pipes,  although  we  have  found  the  apparatus  sat- 
isfactory with  only  the  two  sides  inclosed.  In  order  to  prevent  rust- 
ing, galvanized  pipes  were  used.  The  coil  was  designed  to  provide 
a  cooling  space  eighteen  inches  wide,  two  feet  deep  and  three  feet 
in  height— 'a  little  larger  than  the  average  small  refrigerator.  The 
pipes  leading  from  the  supply  pipe  were  so  cut  that  the  box,  as  it 
afterward  turned  out  to  be,  hung  at  a  convenient  height  from  the 
ceiling.    The  pipes  were  a  sufficient  support. 

The  following  table  shows  the  material  and  fittings  used  for 
the  coil: 

Piping — 14  pieces  24  inches  long,  14  Pieces  4]/i  inches  long,  all  threaded 
on  both  ends;  2  pieces  12  inches  long,  2  pieces  18  inches  long.  Fittings — 28 
elbows,  3  two-way  valves,  2  tees,  1  drip  cock. 

For  the  shelves  heavy  galvanized  sheet  iron  of  double  thickness 
was  used,  and  the  ends  were  turned  over  and  hammered  flat  to  provide  stiffness.  When  the  coil  and 
the  shelves  were  complete  a  covering  that  would  not  only  help  to  keep  out  the  heat  but  would  also 
keep  out  dust  and  dirt  was  provided.  Four  yards  of  heavy  oilcloth,  such  as  is  used  for  covering 
kitchen  tables,  did  this  cheaply  and  made  a  cloth  box  large  enough  to  slip  over  the  coil.  Holes  were 
cut  in  the  top  for  the  two  protruding  pipes  and  in  the  bottom  for  the  drain  cock.  A  piece  of  oilcloth, 
cut  to  fit  the  front,  for  the  door,  was  stitched  on  at  the  top  and  a  rod  ran  through  a  hem  in  the 
bottom  to  make  it  hang  straight.  In  the  sketch  this  oilcloth  covering  is  shown  by  dotted  lines. 
The  piping,  valves,  elbows  and  galvanized  iron  for  the  coil  cost  $7.50,  the  oilcloth  for  the 
cover  $1.10,  the  total  cost  being  a  little  under  $9.  There  is  no  expense  for  ice  supply.  As  for  the 
difference  in  convenience — well,  when  I  think  of  the  continual  nuisance  of  letting  in  the  iceman  and 
of  cleaning  my  refrigerator,  I  am  more  than  thankful. 

12 


FionI  View  ol  Qox 


HOW  TO  MAKE  A  FIRELESS  COOKER 

TWENTY-FIVE  cents  is  the  cost  of  this  fireless  cooker.  A  tin  lard  pail,  which  was  lined  with 
two  thicknesses  of  paper  before  packing,  is  used  for  the  outside  container  of  the  cooker.  A 
gallon  oyster  can,  in  which  three  inches  of  packing  are  allowed  on  all  sides  and  at  the  bottom,  is 
used  as  the  nest.  A  piece  of  asbestos  is  wrapped  around  the  outside  of  the  nest  and  another  piece 
put  under  the  bottom  to  prevent  the  scorching  of  the  packing  when  hot  soapstones  are  used. 
Shredded  newspaper  and  excelsior  are  packed  tightly  around  and  to  the  top  of  the  nest,  which  is 
about  three  inches  below  the  rim  of  the  outside  pail.  A  circular  piece  of  cardboard,  made  to  fit 
inside  the  lard  can,  hides  the  packing  and  makes  a  neat  finish.  Pressure  is  caused  by  placing  an 
excelsior  cushion  three  inches  thick  on  the  top  of  the  inside  lid,  and  hooking  down  firmly  the  top 
of  the  outside  container.     Last,  the  two  pails  are  enameled  white. 

WHAT  YOU  CAN  DO  WITH  A  FIRELESS  COOKER 

By  Mrs.  J.  W .  Powell 

WHEN  I  first  used  my  fireless  cooker  I  was  keenly  disappointed  in  the  saving  of  time,  labor 
and  gas.  Then  I  found  it  was  because  I  had  cooked  only  one  food  at  a  time,  whereas,  to  get 
the  best  results,  several  foods  should  be  cooked  at  the  same  time. 

Foods  cooked  in  the  "fireless"  way  require  about  one-third  longer  for  cooking  than  if  placed 
directly  over  the  gas.  On  this  basis  I  made  out  a  list  of  foods  and  the  time  required  for  their 
cooking.  By  using  dishes  which  fit  properly  into  the  cooker,  two  or  three  foods  may  be  cooked  at  one 
time.  Baking  and  boiling  can  easily  be  done  in  this  manner  since  the  vessel  containing  the  food 
to  be  boiled  can  be  placed  on  the  top  radiator,  which  is  always  used  for  baking  or  roasting.  Cereals 
I  cook  overnight,  often  putting  them  into  the  cooker  just  after  the  dinner  is  removed,  as  the  stones 
are  already  partially  heated  at  that  time. 

One  Hour — Celery  soup,  round  steak  with  vegetables,  bread  pudding;  baked  fish,  baked 
potatoes,  young  beets,  steamed  pudding  (partly  cooked  on  gas);  salmon  loaf^creamed  potatoes, 
spinach;   rice  and  tomato  soup,  Irish  stew,  bread  pudding;   corn  soup,  veal  an*  rice,  cauliflower. 

Two  Hours — Pea  soup,  fried  chicken,  sweet  potatoes,  tapioca  custard;  meat  loaf,  tomatoes 
with  onions,  potatoes,  fruit  pudding;  lamb  chops,  parsnips,  baked  apples;  pork  tenderloins,  rice, 
baked  squash,  apple  sauce;    boiled  salmon,  rice,  beets,  rhubarb. 

Three  Hours — Leg  of  lamb,  macaroni,  escalloped  potatoes;  beef  stew,  string  beans,  brown 
Betty;  veal  with  spaghetti,  baked  apples. 

Four  Hours — Pea  Soup,  boiled  dinner,  rice  pudding. 

Six  Hours — Chicken  stew,  dried  fruit. 

Seven  Hours — Lentil  soup,  corned  beef,  stewed  figs. 

LIST  OF  FOODS  AND  TIME  REQUIRED  FOR  COOKING 


VEGETABLES- 

Spaghetti  and  cheese 

Rice 

Fresh  lima  beans 

Boiled  cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Baked  corn 

Beets  (young) 


-1  Hour 

Onions  and  tomatoes 
Parsnips 
Baked  potatoes 
Boiled  potatoes 
Creamed  potatoes 
Spinach 
Summer  squash 
Stuffed  tomatoes 


MEATS  (Continued)— 4  Hours 
Boiled  dinner  Chicken  curry  Roast  goose 

Curry  of  veal  requires  five  hours  in  a  fireless  cooker; 
chicken  stew  and  boiled  ham,  six;  corned  beef, 
seven;  lamb  and  beef  tongues,  eight;  pot  roast 
or  old  fowl,  nine. 

DESSERTS— 1  Hour 


2  Hours 
Candied  sweet  potatoes         Beets  (older) 
Beet  greens  Stewed  pumpkin 

Baked  Hubbard  squash 


String  beans 


3  Hours 
Macaroni      Escalloped  potatoes 


Sponge    cake 
Corn  bread 
Nut  bread 
Cakes  (^  hour) 
Fruit  pies  0/2  hour) 


Bread  pudding 
Baked  apple  dumpling 

(1-^  hour) 
Rice  pudding  (with 

cooked  rice) 


Turnips  take  four  hours  of  fireless  cooking;    sauer- 
kraut and  rutabagas,  six;  baked  beans,  nine. 


MEATS -1  Hour 


Round  steak  with  vege- 
tables 
Baked  fish 
Salmon  loaf 
Boiled  trout 
Boiled  white  fish 


Beef  au  gratin 
Escalloped  chicken 
Irish  stew 
Goulash  of  lamb 
Veal  and  rice 
Rack  of  lamb 


2  Hours 
Rhubarb  Tapioca  custard 

Steamed  fruit  pudding  Apple  Sauce 

3  Hours 
Boston  brown  bread  Steamed  Graham  bread 

Baked  apples  Suet  pudding 

Brown  Betty 


Rice  pudding 


4  Hours 

Steamed  plum  pudding 


Fried  chicken 
Meat  loaf 
Beefsteak  pie 
Codfish  balls 
Salt  codfish 
Boiled  salmon 
Pork  tenderloin 


2  Hours 

Lamb  chops 
Boiled  lamb 
Mutton  with  onions  and 

potatoes 
Panned  steak 
Sweetbreads 
Veal  roast 


Dried   fruits   need   she   hours'    cooking   in   a   fireless 
cooker;   stewed  figs,  seven. 

SOUPS— 1  Hour 


Leg  of  lamb 
Beef  stew 
Chicken  fricassee 
Roast  shoulder  of  lamb 
Boiled  leg  of  mutton 


3  Hours 

Coddled  steak 

Veal  loaf 

Veal  rolls 

Veal  with  spaghetti 

Boiled  sheeps'  hearts 


Corn  soup 

Rice  soup  with  stock 


Green  pea 
Sago 


Rice  and  tomato  soup 
Beef  tea 

2  Hours 

Tomato  with  stock 
Vegetable  soup 

4  Hours 
Bean 


Dried  pea 

Lentil  soup  takes  seven  hours  in  the  fireless  cooker; 
lima-bean  puree  and  beef  soup,  nine 


HOW  I  USE  MY  DRIPPINGS 

By  Jane  Shumway 

I  NEVER  realized  how  much  actual  money  I  was  throwing  away  by  failing  to  use  every  scrap 
of  meat  fat,  until  I  weighed  that  trimmed  from  an  aitch-bone  roast.    There  was  a  pound.    So 
I  decided  to  render  or  try  it  out  and  do  some  experimenting. 

I  first  cut  it  in  small  pieces;  then  put  it  in  a  pail,  barely  covered  with  cold  water,  and  set  it 
in  a  small  pan  of  boiling  water  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  where  it  remained  for  several  hours,  until 
the  fat  had  slowly  melted  out  and  the  solid  part  was  crisp  and  brown.  I  then  added  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  strained  the  clear  fat  into  half-pound  baking-powder  cans,  cooled  it,  then  covered  it 
and  stored  it  in  a  cool  place,  as  I  would  lard  or  butter.  By  actual  weight  I  found  that  the  fat  had 
lost  only  two  ounces  during  the  process. 

As  we  are  a  large  family  I  made  several  loaves  of  cake  a  week,  for  which  I  used  half  a  pound 
of  butter  (eighteen  cents)  and  half  a  pound  of  lard  (8  cents).  At  my  first  baking  I  substituted  half 
a  cupful  of  the  rendered  beef  fat,  worked  it  in  with  the  sugar  until  creamy,  and  used  it  for  a  large 
loaf.  The  salt  gave  a  butterlike  flavor,  and  the  drippings,  because  not  burned,  were  absolutely 
tasteless.  However,  the  cake  was  too  rich,  because  the  drippings,  unlike  most  other  fats,  con- 
tained no  water.  So  I  found  it  more  satisfactory  to  decrease  the  amount  one-sixth  in  all  recipes 
where  shortening  was  demanded. 

FOR  making  pie  crust  I  used  the  same  amount  as  of  lard,  rubbing  into  the  flour  half  the  neces- 
sary quantity,  then  moistening  the  dough,  rolling  it  out  and  adding  the  balance,  creamed,  in 
layers  as  for  flaky  pastry.  In  making  all  quick  breads,  as  corn  muffins,  etc.,  I  found  that  a  scant 
tablespoonful  of  melted  drippings  gave  just  as  good  results  as  the  customary  melted  butter.  I 
have  always  been  very  proud  of  my  bread,  but  when  I  substituted  drippings  for  the  mixture  of 
butter  and  lard  that  I  had  always  used  nobody  knew  the  difference.  One  day,  when  making 
boiled  salad  dresiing,  I  found  that  there  was  no  butter,  so  in  went  the  required  amount  of  beef 
drippings  and  the  result  was  as  good  as  ever. 

I  found  that  rendered  fat  was  an  indispensable  asset  to  my  housekeeping,  so  bought  three 
pounds  of  beef  fat  each  week,  at  eight  cents  a  pound,  for  shortening.  But  this  was  only  one  phase 
of  the  fat  question;  if  clear  beef  fat  was  good  for  certain  purposes,  why  did  not  the  drippings  from 
the  roasting-pan,  skimmings  from  the  soup-pot,  lamb  fat,  bacon,  sausage  and  ham  fat,  have  a 
place  in  my  household  economy?  I  began  by  saving  the  bacon  fat,  but  found  that  it  was  not  very 
good  for  frying  purposes,  because  burned,  so  I  commenced  to  bake  bacon  in  the  oven,  laying  it  on 
a  rack  in  a  pan  so  thai  the  dripping  would  not  interfere  with  the  cookery.  The  fat  was  as  clear  as 
amber,  and  I  used  it  for  frying  eggs,  potatoes,  corn  fritters,  eggplant  and  other  vegetables  as  well 
as  for  seasoning  tomato  sauce,  macaroni  with  tomatoes,  basting  fish  and  seasoning  bread  dress- 
ings    And  later  I  used  sausage  and  ham  fat  in  a  similar  way. 

THEN  one  day  when  we  had  baked  potatoes  for  breakfast  the  butter  supply  was  so  low  that 
I  served  melted  bacon  fat  in  a  pretty  bowl  instead,  and  the  family  liked  it  better. 

I  discovered  that  the  reason  my  family  was  so  fond  of  liver  and  bacon  was  because  of  the 
bacon  flavor.  So,  while  we  could  not  always  afford  bacon,  by  aid  of  the  drippings  I  was  able  to 
prepare  a  delicious  meal  from  liver  which  I  bought  for  eight  cents  a  pound. 

I  had  never  used  dried  lentils,  peas  and  beans  very  much,  because  they  always  seemed  to 
demand  so  much  salt  pork  for  seasoning.  However,  I  was  so  successful  in  the  use  of  other  kinds  of 
drippings  that  I  began  to  hoard  every  scrap  of  fat. 

My  first  experiment  with  dried  vegetables  and  drippings  was  with  Boston  baked  beans.  In 
these  I  substituted  half  a  cupful  of  sausage  fat  for  the  usual  half-pound  of  salt  pork;  Lima  beans 
I  boiled  with  ham  fat  and  reheated  in  milk  sauce,  while  dried  peas  and  lentils  were  made  into 
soups,  seasoned  with  either  of  these  three  savorj'  fats. 

Sausage  drippings  made  an  excellent  shortening  for  ginger-bread  and  ginger  cookies,  while 
beef  drippings  from  a  roast,  if  not  scorched,  could  be  rendered  and  used  for  dark  cake. 

Any  of  these  fats  was  excellent  for  frying  purposes,  although  I  made  it  a  rule  not  to  mix  the 
savory  and  bland  fats  lest  the  flavor  of  the  smoked  meat  penetrate  my  doughnuts  or  croquettes. 
Beef  fat,  the  skimmings  from  corned  beef,  and  lamb  fat  proved  excellent  for  deep-fat  frying.  How- 
ever, it  was  necessary  to  soak  the  lamb  fat  for  twenty-four  hours  in  cold  water  before  rendering, 
to  remove  the  strong  taste. 

I  found  that  my  butter  bill  decreased  two-thirds,  lard  was  wiped  entirely  off  my  book,  and 
my  total  cooking-fat  expenditure  each  week  averaged  twenty-four  cents  for  the  three  pounds 
of  beef  fat. 

COOKING  IN  THE  OVEN 

WHILE  basting  some  meat  the  water  boiling  in  the  roasting  pan  gave  me  an  idea:  If  water 
boils  in  the  oven  in  one  pan  it  should  also  boil  in  another.  -To  prove  the  fact  I  filled  a  sauce- 
pan with  cold  water,  put  it  in  the  oven  to  heat,  and  the  water  boiled.  From  that  day,  three  months 
ago,  I  have  cooked  nearly  all  my  dinners  in  the  oven.  I  selected  pans  that  would  take  up  as  little 
oven  space  as  possible  and  coveied  them  with  close-fitting  galvanized  lids — tin  ones  will  rust. 
For  roasts  I  use  an  oblong  or  oval,  straight-sided  pan. 

I  prepare  the  foods  as  usual  and  allow  the  same  amount  of  time  for  cooking  them.  I  add 
salt  to  the  vegetables,  put  them  in  boiling  water  and  cover  the  pan  so  the  water  cannot  evaporate 
and  fill  the  oven  with  steam.  When  the  water  on  the  vegetables  boils  steadily  I  lower  the  gat. 
Foods  that  require  a  long  time  for  cooking  I  put  at  the  back  of  the  oven  out  of  the  way.  In  roast- 
ing meat  I  sear  it,  cover  it  with  another  pan  and  lower  it  to  the  floor  of  the  oven. 


Sunday  I  cooked  the  following  menu — all  in  my  oven: 

Roast  Chicken,  Giblet  Sauce 

String  Beans  Browned  Potatoes 

Buttered  Beets  Muffins 

Baked  Apples 

Cup  Cakes 

The  giblets  for  the  chicken  gravy,  the  string  beans,  beets  and  potatoes  I  boiled  on  the  upper 
shelf.  Later  I  browned  the  potatoes  in  the  roasting  pan.  On  the  lower  rack  I  cooked  the  apples; 
later  I  lowered  the  heat  and  baked  the  muffins  and  cup  cakes.  The  chicken  I  kept  in  the  roasting 
pan  on  the  floor  of  the  oven. 

The  advantages  of  oven  cooking  are  many.  Two  burners  can  be  made  to  do  the  work  of  six, 
at  an  average  cost  of  five  cents  an  hour,  and,  except  when  baking  bread  or  cakes,  you  may  leave 
your  cooking  for  nearly  an  hour  at  a  time,  saving  energy  for  other  things. 

SIX  WAYS  OF  SERVING  SOUP  MEAT 

I  BUY  a  ten-cent  piece  of  soup  beef  and  cook  it  in  the  fireless  cooker.    The  cooker  prevents  it 
from  breaking  up  while  cooking. 

(1)  I  sometimes  slice  the  meat  cold  and  serve  it  with  horseradish  sauce. 

(2)  I  grind  the  meat,  chop  a  few  cold  boiled  potatoes,  grate  an  onion,  mix  together,  and  fry 
like  hash. 

(3)  I  grind  the  meat,  boiled  potatoes  and  onion  together,  mix  with  an  egg,  shape  into  meat 
cakes,  and  fry. 

(4)  I  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  add  a  medium-sized  onion,  chop  fine  and  mix  with  the 
following  dressing:  One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  egg,  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  one  cupful  of  milk.  I  mix  it  thor- 
oughly and  cook  five  minutes,  and  add  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  sweet  pickles. 

(5)  I  make  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  white  sauce,  add  a  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  and  to  this 
add  the  chopped  meat.  I  prepare  a  nest  of  mashed  potatoes  mixed  with  grated  cheese,  brown 
in  oven,  and  fill  with  the  meat  mixture. 

(6)  I  scoop  out  the  centers  of  six  tomatoes,  add  the  chopped  meat,  half  a  cupful  of  mayon- 
naise, two  chopped  pickles  and  a  hard-boiled  egg,  refill  the  tomatoes,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

I  WISH  WOMEN  KNEW  HOW  TO  BUY  MEAT  AND  SAVE  THEMSELVES  MONEY 

By  a  Butcher 

OF  BEEF  there  are  three  grades:  good,  second-best  and  poor.  Many  women  ask  me  if  there  is 
not  as  much  nourishment  in  the  cheapest  grade  as  in  the  better  grades.  There  is  not,  be- 
cause low-priced  cattle  are  fed  on  brewer's  ^grains,  cottonseed  oil,  etc.,  which  fattens  them  but 
produces  soft,  flabby  flesh.  This  shrinks  to  a  greater  extent  in  cooking.  Besides  there  is  as  much 
bone  in  a  thin  animal  as  in  a  fat  one. 

Good  beef  has  firm  fat  tinged  with  pink,  and  the  meat  is  interwoven  with  threads  of  fat. 
Poor  beef  has  very  yellow  fat  and  the  meat  is  lean  and  scraggy. 

A  side  of  beef  is  divided  into  a  forequarter  and  a  hindquarter,  the  latter  containing  the  loin 
from  which  the  highest-priced  steaks  and  roasts  are  cut.  It  is  an  easy  rule  to  remember  that  meat 
is  expensive  in  the  center  of  the  animal  and  cheaper  at  the  extremities,  chiefly  because  the  latter 
meat  is  toughened  by  muscular  action.  Most  people  do  not  like  the  cheap  cuts  because  they  can- 
not cook  them  tender,  and  so  buy  steaks  and  roasts.  Because  of  this  excess  demand  we  have  to 
charge  a  very  high  price  for  them. 

Sometimes  it  seems  that  most  women  think  a  steer  is  made  up  entirely  of  ribs  and  loins  1 
There  is  one  point,  however,  that  people  overlook,  and  that  is,  that  most  of  the  cheaper  cuts  have 
little  waste,  so  that,  besides  costing  less  a  pound,  the  meat  goes  almost  twice  as  far.  The  waste 
from  a  two-pound  sirloin  steak  averages  about  three-quarters  of  a  pound. 

Too  many  of  my  customers  buy  unnecessarily  in  small  quantities.  When  one's  means  are 
limited  it  is  far  better  to  buy  in  quantities  sufficient  for  three  days  at  a  time.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  prepare  the  meat  always  the  same  way,  for  I  am  glad  to  cut  it  for  different  uses. 

For  instance,  take  a  chuck  rib  of  beef;  it  will  weigh,  say,  fourteen  pounds  and  a  half  and  sells 
today  as  it  falls  for  eighteen  cents  a  pound,  making  a  total  of  two  dollars  and  sixty-one  cents. 
From  it  I  can  cut  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  soup  meat,  three  pounds  of  meat  which  can  be  pot- 
roasted,  and,  after  boning  the  rest,  can  make  a  delicious  five-pound  roast  from  it,  which  would 
ordinarily  sell  at  thirty-five  cents  a  pound.    That  leaves  four  pounds  of  bone  and  fat. 

The  bone  makes  fine  soup  stock  and  the  fat  can  be  rendered  for  cooking.  If  bought  sepa- 
rately these  cuts  would  cost  two  dollars  and  ninety-five  cents — an  expenditure  on  the  purchase 
of  thirty-four  cents  above  the  price  of  the  whole  piece. 

Brisket  is  equally  good  corned  or  fresh.  Although  it  contains  considerable  bone  a  six-pound 
piece,  at  eighteen  cents,  gives  three  pounds  of  meat  for  a  pot  roast,  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  bone 
for  stock  and  half  a  pound  of  fat  to  render. 

Another  cut  which  comes  from  part  of  the  hind-quarter  is  flank  steak.  This  may  be  scored 
and  broiled  and  served  with  a  tomato  sauce,  or  it  may  be  made  into  a  "  blind  duck."  To  do  this 
it  should  be  stuffed  with  chopped  onions  and  potatoes  well  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage, 
tied  securely  and  braised.  Or  it  might  be  used  for  beef  roulades  with  vegetables,  in  a  stew,  or 
boiled  and  made  into  a  pie.  It  is  clear  meat  with  no  waste  when  well  trimmed,  and  it  sells  for 
from  eighteen  to  twenty  cents  a  pound. 

15 


Flank  fat  sells  for  ten  and  twelve  cents  a  pound  and  can  be  rendered  with  practically  no 
waste,  and  suet  sells  for  about  the  same  price.  It  is  not  economy  to  buy  very  cheap  beef  fat, 
because  it  contains  so  much  meat  liber,  that  is  waste.  In  fact,  it  always  pays  to  purchase  meats 
that  are  well  trimmed,  at  a  higher  price  a  pound,  than  to  buy  cheaper  grades  that  contain  a  great 
deal  of  waste. 

A  rump  weighs  about  twelve  pounds  and  sells  at  twenty-three  cents.  From  it  can  be  obtained 
fine  pot  roasts  or  corned  beef,  with  soup  stock  from  the  bones.  The  round  is  divided  into  tw  o  parts, 
the  top  and  bottom,  which  are  generally  cut  up  into  steaks.  Those  from  the  top  are  best  and  cost 
from  twenty-eight  to  thirty  cents — the  bottom  ones  sell  from  twenty-five  to  twenty-eight  cents 
at  present,  and  if  cut  from  good  beef  are  tender. 

Out  of  a  thirty-pound  round  I  cut  about  twenty  pounds  of  steak,  the  rest  going  to  chopped 
meat  and  trimmings.  When  you  see  chopped  beef  for  sale  at  a  low  price  you  can  almost  always 
be  sure  that  it  contains  a  high  percentage  of  fat,  and  sometimes  a  great  deal  of  water,  for  it  is  just 
as  easy  to  "  plump"  beef  as  chicken  or  oysters.  Better  pay  a  little  more  and  get  honest  meat.  And 
if  the  market  man  will  not  let  her  see  the  meat  chopped  a  woman  had  better  grind  her  meat 
at  home. 

The  horseshoe  is  a  small  piece  of  clear  meat  weighing  about  two  pounds  and  a  half.  It  sells 
for  twenty-two  cents  and  maikes  an  excellent  pot  roast  or  stew. 

The  leg  weighs  about  nineteen  pounds  and  a  quarter  and  sells  at  seventeen  cents  a  pound  as 
it  falls.  It  contains  about  five  pounds  and  a  half  of  meat  and  fourteen  pounds  of  bone.  In  this 
case  it  does  not  pay  to  buy  the  entire  piece,  as  it  is  much  cheaper  to  purchase  the  clear  meat  with 
as  much  bone  as  is  needed.  It  makes  an  excellent  shank  stew.  A  shin  cut  from  the  forequarter 
may  be  used  in  a  similar  way.  The  forequarter  chuck  is  not  cheap  at  eighteen  cents,  as  it  contains 
so  much  bone,  but  it  makes  good  stew  or  boiled  beef. 

The  season  of  the  year  makes  considerable  difference  in  the  price  of  meats.  From  May  to 
October  the  round  and  sirloin  cuts  arc  more  in  demand  and  therefore  cost  more.  Because  of  this, 
rib  roasts  drop  in  price,  as  few  women  cook  roasts  in  summer,  preferring  steaks.  In  the  autumn 
corned  beef  jumps  in  price  for  the  same  reason. 

Lamb  goes  up  from  March  to  May,  while  if  spring  lamb  is  late  it  is  clear  until  July.  Then  is 
the  time  for  women  who  have  to  be  economical  not  to  buy  lamb,  yet  those  are  the  very  women 
who  often  do  it. 

There  are  three  grades  of  lamb,  as  of  beef.  Good  lamb  is  not  very  heavy.  If  the  leg  joints 
are  stiff  the  lamb  is  fresh,  and  the  fat  should  be  firm  and  white.  The  joints  of  fresh  lamb  can  be 
easily  separated  to  show  the  knuckle,  while  mutton  is  usually  splintered  at  the  joint. 

A  lamb  is  divided  into  halves,  each  of  which  is  separated  into  a  forequarter  and  a  hindquarter. 
An  eight-pound-and-a-half  forequarter  at  eighteen  cents  costs  a  dollar  and  fifty-three  cents  if 
purchased  as  it  falls,  and  contains  the  rack  from  which  the  rib  chops  are  cut. 

From  this  can  be  taken  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  stew  meat,  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
breast,  four  shoulder  chops,  which  would  be  excellent  either  broiled  or  en  casserole,  and  two  pounds 
of  chops  from  the  rack,  worth  thirty-two  cents  a  pound.  Bought  separately  this  would  cost  one 
dollar  and  seventy-five  cents,  or  twenty-two  cents  more  than  for  the  whole  piece. 

Besides  this,  there  are  enough  trimmings  for  a  nice  barley  stew.  If  desired  the  chuck,  or 
shoulder,  can  be  bought  separately,  and  boned,  rolled  and  dressed  for  roasting  or  braising;  the 
chuck  and  breast  can  be  purchased  together,  filled  with  a  bread  dressing  and  braised,  or  the  shoul- 
der can  be  raised  off  for  a  casserole,  the  four  chops  under  the  shoulder  cut  out  and  the  neck  and 
bones  used  for  a  stew.  Even  a  small  family  can  dispose  of  a  shoulder  of  lamb  in  this  way  if  the 
woman  is  willing  to  cook  a  little. 

The  whole  hindquarter  weighs  about  eight  pounds  and  a  quarter  and  sells  for  twenty-three 
cents,  a  total  of  a  dollar  and  ninety  cents.  From  it  can  be  cut  eight  loin  or  kidney  chops,  which 
ordinarily  sell  for  thirty-two  cents  a  pound,  and  a  six-pound  roast,  which  would  sell  at  twenty-five 
cents,  and  there  is  a  small  lamb  kidney  besides  some  trimmings.  If  purchased  separately  these 
cuts  would  cost  two  dollars  and  seventeen  cents.  The  housewife  saves  a  little  more  than  ten  per 
cent.,  and  she  will  go  a  long  way  to  save  that  on  dry  goods. 

Veal  is  divided  like  lamb  and  is  becoming  the  most  expensive  of  all  meats.  The  shoulder  and 
breast  sell  for  about  twenty-two  cents  a  pound,  and  may  be  stuffed  with  a  bread  or  a  potato-and- 
onion  dressing. 

The  neck  is  used  for  stewing  and  the  rump  for  pot-roasting  or  braising.  The  leg  is  worth 
about  twenty-six  cents  a  pound  and  weighs  eleven  pounds.  It  contains  about  right  pounds  of 
solid  meat  and  three  of  bone,  and  costs,  entire,  a  dollar  and  sixty-eight  cents.  From  it  is  cut  the 
fillet,  which  is  sold  for  roasting  at  thirty-eight  cents  a  pound,  or  is  cut  up  into  cutlets  at  forty  cents 
a  pound. 

The  balance  is  used  for  stew  or  casserole.  If  purchased  separately  this  amount  of  meat  would 
cost  two  dollars  and  sixty-four  cents,  and  any  large  family  could  dispose  of  the  whole  piece;  but, 
as  few  wish  to  buy  the  knuckle,  or  end  of  the  leg,  it  is  necessary  to  charge  a  high  price  for  the 
cutlets  to  make  a  small  profit. 

As  to  pork,  I  think  it  strange  that  more  shoulder  pork  chops  are  not  purchased,  as  they 
average  four  cents  less  a  pound  than  those  in  the  loin  and  have  no  more  waste. 

A  loin  of  pork  for  roasting  averages  two  cents  a  pound  less  than  when  cut  up  into  chops,  and 
contains  only  a  third  of  bone  waste.  On  the  other  hand,  a  fresh  shoulder  of  ham,  if  well  cut,  is  a 
cheaper  roast  and  may  be  boned  and  stuffed  to  good  advantage,  while  a  fresh  ham  contains  little 
waste  and  is  as  good  eating  as  turkey;  in  fact,  it  is  often  preferred  to  turkey. 


16 


Recipes  Used  in  Connection  With  the  New.  York  and 
Philadelphia  Diet  Squads 

WHAT  100  CALORIES  COST  WHEN  THESE  RECIPES  ARE  COOKED 

\N  AVERAGE  "individual  serving"  from  one  of  these  recipes  would  represent  100  calories. 
J-\  The  average  number  of  calories  consumed  each  day  by  the  young  men  on  the  New  York 
-*■  -*■  diet  squad  was  3500.  The  amount  of  calories  needed  in  a  day  depends  upon  the  kind  of 
work  the  individual  is  doing,  his  weight  and  age.  A  man  working  in  an  office  needs,  as  a  usual 
thing,  3000  calories  a  day.    A  woman  who  does  Hght  housework  requires  2700  calories  a  day. 


COST 

Cabbage $.0710 

Boiled  Onions 0402 

Carrots  and  Onions 0330 

Carrots 0295 

Baked  Stuffed  Haddock 0261 

Beef  Potroast 0228 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 0212 

Turnips  and  Potatoes  (mashed) 0211 

Creamed  Oysters 0180 

Beets,  (pickled) 0179 

Kidney  Stew 0168 

Hamburg  Steak 0158 

White  Sauce  (for  Salmon  Croquettes)      ...      .0153 

Veal  Loaf 0150 

Rolled  Steak  with  Dressing 0150 

Baked  Potatoes 0148 

Beef  Stew  with  Dumplings 0147 

Stuffed  Beef  Heart 0142 

Sliced  Oranges  and  Bananas,  with  Coconut    .      .0135 

Roast  Pork 0127 

Creamed  Potatoes 0119 

Sliced  Orange  and  Banana 0117 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 0115 

Parsnips  (baked  with  sausage) 0113 

Apples  (dried)  for  sauce 0112 

Prunes,  (stewed) 0111 

Coffee  Jelly 0111 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 0111 

Potato  Soup  With  Carrots 0109 

Raisin  Sauce 0107 

Liver  and  Bacon 0106 

Scalloped  Salmon 0105 

Corn  Chowder 0105 

Corned-Beef  Hash 0101 

Codfish  Balls 1000 

Creamed  Codfish 0099 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 0096 

Scalloped  Onions  and  Peanuts 0094 

Stewed  Peaches 0092 

Kidney  Bean  Stew 0091 

Scalloped  Potatoes 0089 

Apple  Sauce 0088 

Stewed  Apricots 0087 

Bread  Pudding 0087 

Clear  Sauce  (for  Cottage  Pudding) 0084 

Spaghetti  and  Cheese 0084 

Welsh  Rarebit  on  Toast 0082 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 0080 

Stewed  Lima  Beans 0077 

Lemon  Milk  Sherbet 0076 

Split  Pea  Soup 0076 

Sauce  (for  Shortcake) 0075 


Baked  Beans  With  Salt  Pork $.0074 

Mock  Chicken 0069 

Cornstarch  Pudding 0069 

Cottage  Pudding 0068 

Rice  Pudding  With  Raisins 0068 

Apricot  Tapioca 0067 

Baked  Split  Peas 0067 

Graham  Muffins .0064 

Cinnamon  Rolls  (Yeast) 0064 

Cornstarch  Pudding .0063 

Brown  Betty 0062 

Baked  Lima  Beans 0061 

Baked  Rice  and  Cheese      0059 

Oatmeal  Cookies 0058 

Molasses  Cake 0057 

Apple-Sauce  Cake 0056 

German  Fried  Potatoes 0056 

Fruit  Pudding 0055 

Clear  Sauce  (for  Fruit  Pudding) 0054 

Prune  Pie 0054 

Apple  Dumpling 0054 

Tapioca 0053 

Hard  Sauce 0052 

Salmon  Croquettes 0051 

Savory  Rice      : 0051 

Vanilla  Wafers 0049 

Currant  Bread 0049 

Currant  Rolls 0046 

Date  Bread 0046 

Yellow  Split-Pea  Soup 0045 

Mock  Cherry  Pie 0045 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 0045 

Sirup  for  Corn  Mush 0044 

Scalloped  Rice  and  Tomatoes 0044 

Crullers 0041 

Oat  Bread 0040 

Macaroni  Croquettes 0039 

Raisin  Bread 0039 

Baked  Barley 0037 

Meat  Soup  With  Barley 0037 

Pancakes 0037 

Baking-Powder  Shortcake 0036 

Com  Cakes 0035 

Corn  Griddlecakes 0034 

Parker  House  Rolls 0034 

Corn  Muffins 0032 

Molasses  Cookies 0032 

Samp 0031 

French  Toast 0029 

Hominy  (fried) 0028 

Gingersnaps 0026 

Fried  Corn  Meal  Mush 0024 


Note  that  the  most  expensive  food  served — that  is,  least  energy  for  the  money — was  cabbage,  7  cents  per 
100  calories.  The  cheapest,  corn  meal  mush,  )|  cent  per  100  calories. 

COST  PER  POUND  OF  RAW  MATERIAL  USED  IN  THESE  RECIPES 


Vanilla $2.4000 

Gelatin 1.9200 

Nutmeg 1.6000 

Sage 1.0400 

Mustard 6800 

Ginger 5333 

Pepper 5200 

Cloves      4800 

Baking  Powder 4200 

Cinnamon 4000 

Soda  bicarbonate 4000 


Chocolate 

Tea 

Eggs  (9  per  pound)    . 

Yeast 

Bananas  

Cocoanut  (shredded) 
Cheese,  American,  pale 


.3800 
.3500 
.3370 
.3200 
.3200 
.3000 
.2800 


Butter  (Nuco) 2700 


Currants,  dried $.2500 

Oysters 2400 

Codfish,  salt 2200 

Salmon,  canned 2200 

Bacon,  average 2130 

Coffee 2000 

Pork,  salt 2000 

Pork,  fresh,  average 1948 

Lamb 1875 

Dates I860 

Codfish,  fresh 1800 

Cream,  18.5  per  cent 1700 

Apricots,  dried 1700 

Peanuts 1600 

Veal 1600 

Beef,  average 1526 

Raisins 1516 

Apples,  dried 1500 

Kidney  Beans 1400 


17 


Beef,  corned 1400        Molasses 0715 

Peas,  split 1400        Onions 0700 

White  Beans,  dried 1300        Parsnips 0643 

Macaroni,  average 1300        Rolls,  white 0640 

Prunes 1300        Barley 0600 

Lima  Beans,  dried 1233        Beets 0600 

Tomatoes,  canned 1220        Graham  Flour 0600 

Haddock 1200        Rice,  broken 0600 

Beef,  liver 1200        Boston  Brown  Bread 0500 

Beef,  heart .1200        Carrots 0500 

Peaches,  dried 1200        White  Flour 0500 

Pork  Sausage 1200        Hominy 0500 

Crackers,  soda 1100        Pork,  larding 0500 

Cabbage 1050        Rolled  Oats 0500 

Peas,  canned 1010        Potatoes,  white 0500 

Rye  Bread 1000        Samp 0500 

Cranberries 1000        Commeal 0400 

Spaghetti 1000        Milk 0400 

Pork,  kidney 1000        Vinegar 0400 

Suet: 1000        Oranges 0320 

Com,  canned 0960        Potatoes,  sweet 0300 

White  Bread 0900        Turnips 0311 

Cornstarch 0900        Salt 0200 

Tapioca 0900        Rock  Salt 0170 

Graham  Bread 0800  Lemons,  12  dozen 

Brown  Sugar,  average 0760  Green  Peppers,  12  for  15  cents 

Granulated  Sugar,  average 0750 

Unless  Otherwise  Stated  the  Recipes  Will  Serve  Five  People 

Apple  Dumplings 

1  Cupful  of  Flour  %  to  J-^  Cupful  of  Water 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
i  2  Teaspoonf ul  of  Salt  5  Apples 

Sift  the  baking  powder,  salt  and  flour,  work  in  the  fat  and  make  a  soft  dough  with  water. 
Roll  and  cut  into  five  good-sized  biscuits.  In  each  fold  an  apple,  cored  and  pared,  and  sprinkled 
with  sugar.    Bake  for  about  forty-five  minutes,  or  until  the  apples  are  soft.    Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Apple-Sauce  Cake 

1  Cupful  of  Sugar  1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter  ]/2  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 

1  Cupful  of  Apple  Sauce  J^  Teaspoonful  of  Cloves 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour  }4,  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

%  Cupful  of  Raisins  M  Teaspoonful  of  Nutmeg 

Sift  together  the  soda,  spices,  salt  and  flour.  Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar,  apple  sauce, 
dry  ingredients  and  seeded  raisins.      Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Apricot  Tapioca  Pudding 
6  Apricots  3'2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

}/2  Cupful  of  Sugar  3  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water 

1  Cupful  of  Pearl  Tapioca 

Cover  the  tapioca  with  cold  water  and  soak  for  one  hour.  Drain  off  the  cold  water;  add  the 
boiling  water  and  salt,  and  cook  over  water  (in  a  double  boiler  if  j-qu  have  one)  until  the  tapioca 
is  transparent  and  no  hard  center  portion  remains.  This  will  require  about  thirty  minutes.  Place 
the  apricots  in  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Add  sugar  to  the  tapioca  and  pour  this  over  the  apricots; 
add  apricot  juice,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Cool  and  serve.  If 
dried  apricots  are  to  be  used  they  should  be  soaked  overnight,  or  several  hours  in  cold  water  suffi- 
cient to  cover  them.    Cook  in  the  water  in  which  they  have  soaked  until  they  are  tender. 

Baked  Bananas 
5  Bananas  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  \}i  Tablespoonfuls  of  Lemon  Juice 

Remove  the  bananas  from  the  skins,  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  sugar  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  bananas  are  golden  brown. 

Baked  Barley 
M  Cupful  of  Barley  '  •_)  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

3  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water  '^  Cupful  Left-over  Gravy 

Soak  the  barley  overnight.  Drain.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain.  Add 
the  left-over  gravy  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  one  has  a  meat  bone  or 
left-over  bits  of  meat  these  may  be  boiled  with  the  barley  to  give  it  flavor. 

Baked-Bean  Soup 

2  Cupfuls  of  Cold  Baked  Beans  i4  Sliced  Carrot 

4  Cupfuls  of  Water  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  * 
Salt  and  Pepper                                                                    2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

2  Slices  of  Onion 
Put  the  beans,  onion  and  carrot  in  a  saucepan  with  four  cupfuls  of  water  and  allow  to  sim- 
mer for  half  an  hour.    Rub  through  a  colander,  or  coarse  sieve.   Add  salt  and  pepper  and  bind  with 
flour  and  fat,  which  have  been  cooked  together. 

Baked  Beans  With  Salt  Pork 
IH  Cupfuls  of  Beans  (dry)  2 '2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Molasses 

Ye,  Pound  of  Salt  Pork 
Parboil  the  beans,  drain  and  place  them  in  a  beanpot,  filling  the  pot  about  two-thirds  full. 
Put  in  the  salt  pork,  the  rind  of  which  has  been  scored.    Pour  molasses  over  the  pork.    Add  cold 
water,  using  sufficient  to  almost  cover  the  beans.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  ten  hours.    Do  not  try 
to  keep  the  beanpot  filled  with  water,  but  allow  the  water  to  cook  down  so  that  the  fat  can  brown. 

Baked  Lima  Beans 
Lima  beans  may  be  used  instead  of  the  navy  beans,  and  baked  in  iust  the  same  way. 

18 


Baked  Haddock,  Stuffed 

IM  Pounds  of  Haddock  i^  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat  J^  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

2  Cupfuls  of  Bread  Crumbs  J^  Cupful  of  Hot  Water 
1  Tablespoonful  of  Grated  Onion 

Clean  the  haddock  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  stuffing  of  the  bread  crumbs, 
salt,  pepper,  onion  and  hot  water.  Stuff  the  fish,  brush  over  with  melted  fat,  sprinkle  with  flour, 
put  on  rack  in  baking  pan,  in  the  bottom  of  which  is  about  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  for  about  forty-five  minutes.    Baste  the  fish  occasionally,  to  keep  it  from  becoming  dry. 

Baked  Rice  With  Cheese 

J-4  Cupfuls  of  Rice  ^8  Pound  of  Cheese 

5  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water  4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

lyi  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 
Wash  the  rice.    Stir  gradually  into  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  until  the  rice  is  tender — 
say  for  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.    Into  a  greased  baking  dish  put  alternate  layers  of  rice  and 
grated  cheese,  dotting  the  cheese  over  with  bits  of  fat.    Put  into  a  hot  oven  for  about  ten  minutes, 
allowing  the  rice  to  brown  over  the  top. 

Baked  Split  Peas 

1|4  Cupfuls  of  Split  Peas  2  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water 

1  Quart  of  Cold  Water  J^  Pound  of  Bacon 

Look  over  the  peas  and  soak  them  in  cold  water  overnight.  Drain  and  cook  in  boiling  water 
until  tender.  Drain.  Put  into  a  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  lay  thin  slices  of 
bacon  across  the  top.    Bake  for  about  forty  minutes. 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour  3 '2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  ^4  Cupful  of  Water 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Work  in  the  fat  with  a  fork  or  the  fingers; 
add  water  gradually,  making  a  soft  dough.  Turn  dough  on  floured  board,  roll  out  to  one-half-inch 
thickness,  cut  into  biscuits  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Beef  Pot  Roast  (12  Servings) 

2J2  Pounds  of  Chuck  Salt  and  Pepper 

Heat  a  frying  pan  very  hot  .Sear  the  meat  well  on  all  sides,  browning  it.  Remove  from  the 
frying  pan  and  put  it  into  an  iron  kettle.  F..inse  out  the  frying  pan  with  two  cupfuls  of  water, 
which  is  poured  over  the  meat.  Let  the  meat  simmer  for  three  hours;  or  longer  if  necessary  to 
make  it  tender.  Keep  a  small  amount  of  water  in  the  kettle — not  enough  to  cover  the  meat — and 
turn  the  meat  from  time  to  time.   Add  salt  and  pepper  the  last  hour  of  cooking. 

Beef  Stew  With  Dumplings 

(for  Dumplings) 
%  Pound  of  Beef  Chuck  1  Cupful  of  Flour 

2  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 
lj'2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour                                                }^  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Fat 
}  2  Cupful  of  Water 
Cut  the  meat  into  inch-and-a-half  cubes.    Brown  these  in  a  frying  pan  with  drippings  or  bits 
of  fat  meat.    Put  the  meat  into  a  kettle,  rinse  out  the  frying  pan  with  the  hot  water,  and  pour  this 
over  the  meat.    Let  the  meat  simmer  for  about  three  hours,  or  until  tender.    Thicken  the  stew 
with  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  flour.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Make  the  dumplings  by  sitting  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Rub  in  the  fat 
with  the  fingers  or  a  fork.    Add  the  water.    Drop  the  dough  into  the  stew  by  spoonfuls  and  cook. 

Bread  Pudding 

2>2  Cupfuls  of  Bread  Crumbs  M  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

1  Cupful  of  Milk  H  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Water  }4  Teaspoonful  of  Nutmeg 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  K  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 

Scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  over  the  bread  crumbs.    Add  the  sugar,  water,  salt,  vanilla  and 
spices.   Mix  well  together,  and  bake  for  about  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.   Serve  with  fruit  sauce. 
Fruit  sauce  is  made  by  adding  to  a  clear  sauce  some  left-over  raisins,  peaches  and  orange 
peel.    Any  left-over  bits  of  fruit  can  be  utilized  in  this  way. 

Brown  Betty  With  Hard  Sauce 

3  Cupfuls  of  Graham  Bread  Crumbs  1  Teaspoonful  of  Grated  Nutmeg 

1  Cupful  of  Dried  Apples  1  Teaspoonful  of  Ground  Cinnamon 

M  Cupful  of  Brown  Sugar  M  Cupful  of  Water 

M  Cupful  of  Melted  Butterine  of  Other  Fat 
For  hard  Sauce: 

U  Cupful  of  Butter  H  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

I2  Cupful  of  Brown  Sugar  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Milk 

Wash  the  dried  apples,  soak  overnight  with  enough  water  to  cover,  and  stew  in  the  same 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked  until  thfy  are  tender.  Melt  the  fat  and  mix  with  crumbs.  Put 
into  a  baking  dish,  alternating  layers  of  crumbs  and  apples,  sprinkling  each  layer  of  apples  with 
sugar,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  water.  Make  the  last  layer  of  crumbs.  Bake  for  about  thirty 
minutes. 

For  hard  sauce,  cream  the  butter  thoroughly;  add  the  sugar  very  gradually,  and  milk  drop 
by  drop  until  the  mixture  is  well  blended.    Add  vanilla. 

19 


Caramel  Tapioca 

Yi  Cupful  of  Tapioca  )A,  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

IM  Cupfuls  of  Brown  Sugar  Vi,  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

3  Cupfuls  of  Water  M  Cupful  of  Cold  Water 

Wash  the  tapioca  well  and  soak  overnight  in  the  water.  Leaving  the  tapioca  in  the  water  in 
which  it  was  soaked,  add  the  brown  sugar  and  salt;  mix  thoroughly  and  put  into  a  greased  baking 
dish.    Bake  for  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.    Remove  from  the  oven;   add  half  a  cupful  of  water  and 

vanilla.    Cool  before  serving. 

Carrots 

3  Medium-Sized  Carrots  Yz  Teaspoonful  of  Nutmeg 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

Wash  the  carrots;  scrape  and  cut  into  cubes.  Cook  in  boiling  water  for  about  forty  minutes, 
or  until  tender.  The  time  for  cooking  will  vary  with  the  age  of  the  carrot.  When  tender  add  salt 
to  taste,  nutmeg,  and  thicken  with  flour. 

Chocolate  Blancmange 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cornstarch  M  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 
1  Cupful  of  Milk                                                                 M  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

M  Cupful  of  Sugar  Yi  Cupful  of  Cold  Water 

^4"  Square  of  Chocolate 
Mix  together  the  cornstarch,  salt  and  sugar.  Add  the  cold  water  gradually,  making  a  thick 
paste.  Melt  the  chocolate,  scald  the  milk,  and  add  the  milk  to  the  chocolate,  rinsing  out  the  dish 
in  which  the  chocolate  was  melted.  Add  this  to  the  cornstarch  paste  gradually.  Cook  over  hot 
water  for  about  twenty-five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Serve  the  blancmange  cold  with  cream 
(whipped  cream  if  you  can  afford  it),  custard  sauce,  or  an  egg  meringue. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

\Y.  Cupfuls  of  Milk  Yi  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  Yi  Square  of  Chocolate 

lYi  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour  Y  Cupful  of  Thin  Cream 

Yi  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
Mix  the  sugar,  salt,  and  flour,  and  slowly  add  half  a  cupful  of  cold  milk,  stirring  constantly 
so  that  there  are  no  lumps.    Add  remainder  of  the  milk,  scalded,  and  cook  this  mixture  over  hot 
water  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  until  it  thickens.    Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water,  and  add  it 
to  the  thickened  milk.    Cool.    Add  the  vanilla  and  thin  cream.    Freeze,  using  three  measures  of 

ice  to  one  of  salt.  ^^    ., 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

About  6  Cupfuls  of  Flour  1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar 

1  Pint  of  Lukewarm  Water  1  Cupful  of  Currants 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  H  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  1  Yeast  Cake 

Dissolve  the  yeast  cake  in  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  the  warm  water.  Add  the  remainder  of  the 
water  to  the  fat,  sugar  and  salt.  Add  the  yeast  cake  and  flour.  Stir  in  the  currants,  knead,  and  let 
rise.  Turn  out  on  a  floured  board,  roll  out  to  a  third  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Shape  into  rolls, 
cover,  and  let  rise.  Before  baking,  brush  over  with  melted  fat,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cin- 
namon. 

Clear  Sauce  for  Fruit  Pudding 

Y  Cupful  of  Sugar  ?4  Tablespoonful  of  Cornstarch 
J^Cupful  of  Boiling  Water  Y  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch.  Add  the  boiling  water  gradually,  stirring  constantly.  Boil 
for  five  minutes.    Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  vanilla. 

Codfish  Balls  (11  Balls) 

Y2  Cupful  of  Codfish  \Y2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

154  Cupfuls  of  Potatoes  Flour 

Wash  the  fish  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Wash  the  potatoes,  pare  and  cut  into  slices.  Cook 
fish  and  potatoes  together  in  boiling  water  until  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Drain,  and  mash  thor- 
oughly. Add  the  fat  and  season,  if  salt  is  needed.  Shape  into  balls,  roll  these  in  flour  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.    Have  the  fat  so  hot  that  it  is  beginning  to  smoke.   Drain  the  cooked  fishballs  on  unglazed 

paper. 

Corn  Bread 

2  Cupfuls  of  Meal  3  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 
1  Cupful  of  Flour                                                                 4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Sugar 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  1  Pint  of  Sweet  Milk 

1  Cupful  of  Warm  Water  M  Cupful  of  Fat  (Lard) 

Mix  together  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  melted  lard,  milk  and  water,  and  bake  in  a  greased 
oblong  pan  in  moderate  oven  for  from  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes. 

Corn  Chowder 

Y  Can  of  Corn  IH  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water 
li^-Inch  Cube  of  Salt  Pork  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter 

1  Medium-Sized  Potato  Cut  into  Slices  Y%  Sliced  Onion 

2  Cupfuls  of  Milk  Y\  Teaspoonful  of  Sugar 

Salt  and  Pepper 
Cut  the  pork  into  small  pieces  and  try  it  out.  Add  the  onion  and  cook  for  about  five  minutes. 
Strain  the  fat  into  a  stewpan.  Cook  the  potatoes  for  about  five  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Drain,  and  add  the  potatoes  to  the  fat.  Add  the  boiling  water  and  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  soft. 
Then  add  the  corn  and  milk  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  the  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  butter. 
Serve  immediately  after  adding  butter. 

20 


Corn  Muffins 

IM  Cupfuls  of  Com  Meal  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Flour  1  Cupful  of  Water 

lJ-2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Fat 

5  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 

Sift  together  the  flour,  corn  meal,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt.  Add  the  water  and  melted 
fat.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

Corned-Beef  Hash  With  Vegetables 

VA  Cupfuls  Corned  Beef  (Cold,  Left-Over)  H  Cupful  of  Cooked  Carrots 

2M  Cupfuls  Diced  Potatoes  (Cooked)  ?4  Cupful  of  Water 

1  Cupful  of  Turnips  (Cooked)  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

1  Small  Onion,  Chopped  Fine 
Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces.    Add  the  cooked  vegetables  cut  into  small  cubes,  the  onion 
and  the  water.    Put  the  fat  into  a  hot  frying  pan;   add  the  hash  and  cook  for  about  twenty  min- 
utes, allowing  the  hash  to  brown.    Other  left-over  meat  may  be  added  to  corned  beef,  or  used 
instead  of  corned  beef.        Cornstarch  Pudding  With  Raisin  Sauce     ^ 

6  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cornstarch  2  Cupfuls  of  Water 

M  Cupful  of  Sugar  ?-4  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

j1  Cupful  of  Milk  I'i  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Mix  the  cornstarch  and  sugar.    Add  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  water,  stirring  until  free  from 
lumps.   Add  the  salt  and  the  milk  and  remainder  of  the  water,  which  have  been  warmed  together. 
Cook  over  hot  water  until  thickened  and  free  from  a  raw  taste.    Remove  from  the  fire;  add  vanilla 
and  cool.    This  may  be  molded  in  cups.    Serve  cold. 
Raisin  Sauce: 

32  Cupful  of  Raisins  M  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Sugar  'j^i  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Cornstarch 
Mix  the  cornstarch  and  sugar;   add  the  water  gradually,  stirring  constantly.   Add  the  raisins, 
which  have  been  seeded  and  cleaned.    Cook  until  the  raisins  are  tender.    Add  the  vanilla. 

Cottage  Pudding  With  Clear  Sauce  (10  Servings) 

}4  Cupful  of  Butter  2M  Cupfuls  of  Flour 

%  Cupful  of  Sugar  4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 

1  Egg  14  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Milk 
Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.    Cream  the  butter;   add  the  sugar  gradually, 
and  the  egg  well  beaten.   Add  alternately  the  milk  and  the  sifted  dry  ingredients.    Mix  well.    Turn 
into  a  buttered  cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Clear  Sauce  for  Cottage  Pudding: 

M  Cupful  of  Sugar  }4  Cupful  Boiling  Water 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Butter  H  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

1'^  Teaspoonfuls  of  Cornstarch 
Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch,  and  add  water  gradually,  stirring.    Boil  for  five  minutes; 
remove  from  the  fire;    add  the  butter;   cool,  and  add  vanilla. 

Creamed  Codfish 

Vs  Pound  of  Salt  Cod  4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  2  Cupfuls  of  Milk 

Pick  the  codfish  in  pieces,  cover  with  warm  water  and  allow  to  soak  for  about  three  hours,  or 
until  soft.  Melt  the  fat;  add  the  flour,  and  cook  together  for  about  three  minutes.  Add  the  milk, 
and  cook  until  it  thickens.    Drain  the  codfish,  and  add  to  white  sauce.    Heat,  serve. 

Creamed  Oysters 
H  Pint  of  Oysters  (1  Cupful)  4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

1  Pint  of  Milk  ^4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour  Pepper 

Melt  the  fat;  add  the  flour  and  cook  together  for  three  minutes.  Add  the  milk  and  stir 
constantly  until  thickened.  Add  the  seasoning  and  the  oysters,  and  keep  the  white  sauce  just 
below  boiling  point,  allowing  the  oysters  to  cook  slowly,  until  the  edges  curl.    Serve  on  toast. 

Creamed  Potatoes 

4  Medium-Sized  Potatoes  4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

14  Cupful  of  Milk  4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

lyi  Cupfuls  of  Water  Vi  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Pepper 
Cut  the  boiled  potatoes  into  dice.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  saucepan;  add  the  flour,  and  cook  together 
for  three  minutes.    Add  the  milk  and  water,  and  stir  until  thickened.    Season;   add  the  potatoes, 
and  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  warmed  through. 

Crullers  (36  Crullers) 

}yi  Cupful  of  Butter  3^2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 

1  Cupful  of  Sugar  1  Cupful  of  Milk 

2  Eggs  (Whites  and  Yolks  Separated)  Fat  for  Frying 

4  Cupfuls  of  Flour  ,     ,  u- 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar  gradually,  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beaten,  and  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  Sift  together  the  flour  and  baking  powder;  add  to  the  first  mixture 
alternately  with  milk.  Turn  out  on  a  floured  board,  roll  thin  and  cut  into  strips  about  three 
inches  long  and  two  inches  wide.  In  each  strip  make  four  crosswise  gashes.  Heat  a  kettle  of  fat 
for  frying  until  it  begins  to  smoke.  Drop  the  crullers  into  the  hot  fat,  allow  them  to  rise  to  top, 
and  turn.  Turn  at  intervals,  allowing  the  crullers  to  become  brown  on  both  sides.  Drain  on 
unglazed  paper.  Into  a  paper  bag  put  six  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and  three  teaspoonfuls  and  a  half 
of  cinnamon.    Shake  the  crullers  in  the  bag  with  the  sugar  and  cinnamon. 


Currant  Rolls 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour  4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 
23^  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat                                                    rs  Cupful  of  Milk 

23>1)  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  ,'4  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Currants 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Work  in  the  fat  with  the  tips  of  tlae  fingers. 
Add  the  milk  gradually.  Toss  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  out  to  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Have  the  currants  washed  and  dried  and  mix  them  with  the  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Brush  over  the 
top  of  the  dough  with  melted  fat,  and  then  sprinkle  over  it  the  mixture  of  cinnamon,  sugar  and 
currants.  Roll  like  a  jelly  roll;  cut  off  slices  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Bake  these  on  a 
greased  tin  for  about  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Date  Bread 
Make  the  same  as  raisin  bread,  using  dates  instead  of  raisins. 

French  Fried  Potatoes 
1  Pint  of  Fat  for  Frying  J^j  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Quart  of  Small  Potatoes,  Cut  Into  Eighths  Lengthwise 
Let  the  potatoes  soak  for  a  few  minutes  in  cold  water;    take  from  the  water,  dry  between 
towels  and  drop,  a  few  at  a  time,  into  the  fat,  heated  enough  to  brown  a  cube  of  white  bread  in 
one  minute.   When  taken  out,  drain  on  paper  and  sprinkle  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

French  Toast 
9  Half-Inch  Slices  of  Bread  H  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  H  Cupful  of  Fat 

Toast  the  bread,  spread  it  with  butter  or  buttcrine,  and  sprinkle  it  with  cinnamon  and  sugar 
mbced  together.  Fried  Mush 

1  Cupful  of  Com  Meal  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

4  Cupfuls  of  Water 
Have  the  salted  water  boiling  in  the  upper  part  of  the  double  boiler.  Into  this  stir  the  corn 
meal.  Cook  directly  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  boils.  Then  set  it  over  hot  water  and  cook  for 
two  hours  and  a  half.  Pour  into  a  bread  pan  or  a  shallow  dish.  Allow  to  stand  overnight,  or  for 
several  hours,  until  cold.  Turn  out  of  the  dish  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Heat  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  fat  in  a  frying  pan.   Saute  the  slices  of  mush  in  the  fat  until  they  are  golden  brown. 

Fruit  Shortcake  (5  Biscuits)  With  Fruit  Sauce 

1  Cupful  of  Flour  M  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  J^  to  H  Cupful  of  Water 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

Sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.    Work  in  the  fat  with  tips  of  fingers  or  a  fork. 
Add  the  water,  making  a  soft  dough.    Turn  out  on  a  floured  board,  roll,  cut  into  biscuits,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  for  about  twelve  minutes.     Split  the  biscuits,  and  put  fruit  between  and  on  top. 
Fruit  Sauce: 

J-3  Cupful  of  Dried  Peaches  VA  Cupfuls  of  Water 

^2  Cupful  of  Raisins  ]/2  Tablespoonful  of  Butter 

13--^  Teaspoonfuls  of  Cornstarch  ^  M  Cupful  of  Sugar 

Wash  the  peaches,  soak  overnight  in  water  to  cover  and  cook,  until  tender,  in  the  same  water 
in  which  they  were  soaked.  Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch;  add  the  water  and  the  washed  raisins, 
and  cook  together  until  the  raisins  are  tender.  Add  the  cooked  peaches,  warm,  and  add  the 
butter.     Serve  with  the  shortcake.  Fruit  Pudding 

3  Cupfuls  of  Dry  Bread  Crumbs  4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
IM  Cupfuls  of  Dried  Apples                                                J^  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

%  Cupful  of  Sugar 
Wash  the  apples  thoroughly  and  soak  them  overnight,  or  for  several  hours,  using  water 
enough  to  cover  the  fruit.  Cook  until  tender,  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked.  Add  to  the 
apple  sauce  the  sugar,  vanilla  and  all  but  a  third  of  a  cupful  of  the  bread  crumbs.  To  the  remaining 
bread  crumbs  add  the  melted  fat  and  sprinkle  this  over  the  apple  sauce,  which  has  been  placed  in 
a  baking  dish.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  bread  crumbs  arc  brown.    Serve  with  clear  sauce. 

Gingersnaps  (About  40) 
1  Cupful  of  Molasses  Yz  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

]/2  Cupful  of  Shortening  1  Tablespoonful  of  Ginger 

3M  Cupfuls  of  Flour  IH  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

Heat  the  molasses  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour  it  over  fat.  Sift  together  the  soda,  flour, 
ginger  and  salt;  add  to  the  molasses  and  shortening  and  stir  well.  Chill,  roll  very  thin  on  a  floured 
board,  cut  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Goulash 
1  Pound  of  Beef,  Shoulder,  Neck  or  Chuck  J2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Onion  .  2  Cupfuls  of  Water 

V/2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
\}/2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 
Wash  the  beef  and  cut  into  inch-and-a-half  cubes.    Brown  these  in  a  frying  pan  with  chopped 
onion.    Add  two  cupfuls  of  water,  rinsing  out  the  frying  pan  and  putting  the  meat  and  liquid  into 
a  kettle.   Add  the  salt,  and  thicken  gravy  with  flour  and  fat  cooked  together. 

Graham  Muffins  (14  Muffins) 
1  Cupful  of  Graham  Flour  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  White  Flour  1  Cupful  of  Milk 

M  Cupful  of  Sugar  1  Egg 

4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Fat 

Sift  together  the  salt,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  white  flour.  Add  the  Graham  flour  and 
mix  well.  Beat  the  egg;  add  to  the  milk,  and  add  these  to  the  dry  materials.  Add  the  melted  fat. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  in  greased  muffin  tins,  for  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

22 


Hamburg  Steak 

1  Pound  of  Beef  3  2  Teaspoonf ul  of  Salt 

2  Cupfuls  of  Bread  Crumbs  Pepper 
\i  Onion,  Chopped  Fine 

Wash  the  beef  and  put  it  through  a  meat  chopper.  Mix  with  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper 
and  onion.  If  the  bread  crumbs  are  very  dry  moisten  with  water  so  the  mixture  will  not  be  dry. 
Shape  into  meat  cakes  and  cook  in  a  frying  pan,  using  just  enough  fat  to  keep  the  meat  from 
sticking  to  the  pan. 

Hominy 
1  Cupful  of  Hominy  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Quart  of  Boiling  Water  1  Teaspoonful  of  Nut  Butter 

Wash  the  hominy  in  two  cupfuls  of  cold  water.  Have  the  water  in  which  it  is  to  be  cooked 
boiling  and  salted  and  put  in  the  nut  butter.  Stir  in  the  hominy  and  let  it  cook  overnight,  the 
same  as  oatmeal. 

Kidney-Bean  Stew 
J'2  Pound  of  Kidney  Beans  1  Cupful  of  Canned  Tomato 

3  Slices  of  Onion  \y^  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
M  Cupful  of  Rice  5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

1  Potato 
Soak  the  beans  overnight.    Drain,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  soft.    About  one  hour 
before  they  finish  cooking  add  the  rice,  onion  and  tomato.    Half  an  hour  later  add  the  diced 
potato.      Bind  the  liquid  with  the  fat  and  flour,  cooked  together. 

Kidney  Stew 

1  Pound  of  Kidney  Pork  2  Cupfuls  of  Water 

1  Carrot  i  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

J2  Medium-Sized  Onion  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Drippings 

Scrape  and  slice  the  carrot,  peel  and  slice  the  onion,  and  cook  together  in  two  cupfuls  of  water 
until  tender.  Soak  the  kidneys  for  one  hour  in  lukewarm  water.  Drain,  clean  and  dry.  Dredge 
with  flour,  slice  and  brown  in  a  frying  pan,  with  drippings.  Remove  the  kidneys  from  the  frying 
pan;  add  the  flour  to  the  fat,  and  brown.  Add  to  this  the  two  cupfuls  of  water  in  which  the 
carrots  and  onion  were  cooked..  Boil  until  thickened.  Add  the  kidneys,  onion  and  carrots.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  cook  for  three  minutes  and  serve. 

Lemon  Milk  Sherbert 

2  Cupfuls  of  Milk  =3  Cupful  of  Water 

1  Cupful  of  Sugar  Juice  of  Two  Lemons 

Mix  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar;  add  the  water,  and  then  the  milk  very  slowly.  Freeze,  using 
three  parts  of  ice  to  one  of  salt.  _  _, 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 
5  Medium-Sized  Potatoes  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

I'o  Medium-Sized  Onions  Salt  and  Pepper 

Wash  the  potatoes,  pare  and  boil  them.  Cut  them  into  cubes.  Peel  and  slice  the  onion.  Heat 
the  fat  in  a  frying  pan;  add  the  potatoes  and  onions,  and  fry  imtil  brown,  turning  with  a  cake 
turner  occasionally  to  keep  those  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  from  becoming  burned.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Macaroni  Croquettes  With  Potato  Sauce  (About  12  Croquettes) 

2  Cupfuls  of  Macaroni,  Broken  Into  Small  Pieces       5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
1  Cupful  of  Milk  }'%  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

J^  Cupful  of  Flour  Pepper 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  it  is  tender;   drain  and  cut  it  fine.    Melt  the 

fat;   add  the  flour  and  cook  for  three  minutes;   add  the  milk  and  cook  until  well  thickened.   Add 

the  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  in  the  macaroni.    Cool.    Shape  the  croquettes,  roll  in  fine  bread 

crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  heating  the  fat  until  it  begins  to  smoke  before  putting  in  the  croquettes. 

Mashed  Turnips  and  Potatoes 

3  Medium-Sized  Turnips  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
1  Medium-Sized  Potato 

Wash  and  pare  the  turnips  and  the  potato  and  cut  it  into  quarters.  Cook  in  separate  kettles 
of  boiling  salted  water,  as  the  turnip  will  require  more  time  for  cooking  than  the  potato.  When 
soft,  drain;   add  the  potato  to  the  turnip,  and  mash  together.    Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Meat  Loaf 

H  Pound  of  Dry  Bread  Crumbs  M  Cupful  of  Any  Kind  of  Stock  or  Water 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Grated  Onion  1  Pound  of  Chopped  Meat 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  M  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

Mix,  shape  into  a  loaf,  dredge  with  flour  and  bake  for  fortv  minutes  in  a  medium-hot  oven, 
basting  frequently.  ^^^^  ^^^^  p.^  ^^  p.^^ 

1  Cupful  of  Cranberries  Crust: 

Yi  Cupful  of  Raisins  2  Cupfuls  of  Flour 

14  Cupful  of  Water  Y^  Cupful  of  Fat 

1  Cupful  of  Sugar  Y.  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Y2  Tablespoonful  of  Flour  Cold  Water 

\'i  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
Cut  the  cranberries  into  halves;   seed  and  cut  up  the  raisins;   add  the  sugar,  water,  salt  and 
flour.     Mix  well  together.     Use  as  filling  for  covered  pie. 

For  the  crust,  add  the  salt  to  the  flour,  and  work  in  fat  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Moisten 
with  just  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough  which  can  be  rolled  out  on  a  floured  board. 
Roll  out  the  dough,  line  a  pie  tin,  fill  with  cranberry  mixture,  make  a  cover  of  dough,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven. 

23 


Mock  Chicken 

2  Cupfuls  of  Dry  Beans  1  Teaspoonful  of  Sage 

14  Loaf  of  Dry  Bread,  Ground  to  Mdke  Fine  Crumbs         Salt  and  Pepper 
H  Cupful  of  Fat  l-i  Cupful  of  Hot  Water 

Pick  over  the  beans,  wash  and  allow  them  to  soak  overnight  in  cold  water.  Drain,  and  put 
on  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  allowing  them  to  simmer  until  tender,  but  not  broken.  Drain,  mash. 
Make  a  stuffing  with  the  bread  crumbs,  melted  fat,  powdered  sage,  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  in 
a  baking  dish  a  laj'er  of  mashed  beans,  a  layer  of  stuffing  and  a  second  layer  of  mashed  beans. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.    Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Molasses  Cake  (About  21  Little  Cakes) 

}'2  Cupful  of  Sugar  1  Egg 

J4  Cupful  of  Fat  2}i  Cupfuls  of  Flour 

1  Cupful  of  Molasses  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Soda 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Ginger  1  Cupful  of  Hot  Water 
J  2  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon                                             }o  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Sift  together  the  salt,  sugar,  flour,  soda  and  spices.  Melt  the  butter  in  hot  water;  add  the 
molasses,  the  egg  well  beaten  and  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Bake  in  small  cup-cake  tins  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

Molasses  Co9kies  (About  34  Cookies) 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour  1  Cupful  of  Molasses 
}4  Cupful  of  Fat  1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Heat  the  molasses  until  it  begins  to  boil,  and  pour  it  over  the  fat.    Sift  together  the  fiour, 

salt  and  soda.    Add  to  the  molasses  and  fat.    Add  the  water.    Mix  thoroughly.    Chill.    Toss  part 

of  the  mixture  on  a  floured  board,  roll  very  thin  and  cut  with  a  cooky  cutter  dipped  in  flour. 

Bake  on  a  greased  baking  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven.    Use  up  the  remainder  of  the  dough  in  the 

^'  Norwegian  Prune  Pudding 

M  Pound  of  Prunes  I'-i  Pounds  of  Cold  Water 

3^2  Cupful  of  Sugar  1  Small  Stick  of  Cinnamon 

%  Cupful  of  Boiling  Water  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cornstarch 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cold  Water 
Soak  the  prunes  for  one  hour  in  cold  water.  Cook  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked 
until  they  are  tender.  Remove  the  prune  seeds  and  cut  the  prunes  into  bits.  Add  the  sugar, 
boiling  water  and  cinnamon  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes.  To  the  cornstarch  add  the  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  cold  water,  mixing  to  a  paste.  Add  this  slowly  to  the  prune  mixture  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.    Remove  stick  of  cinnamon  and  pour  into  a  mold.    Serve  cold. 

Oat  Bread 

2  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water  1  Cupful  of  Dry  Rolled  Oats 

14  Tablespoonful  of  Salt  H  Cupful  of  Molasses 

J-^  Yeast  Cake  Dissolved  in  1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat 

}^  Cupful  of  Lukewarm  Water  4J^  Cupfuls  of  Flour 

Add  the  boiling  water  to  the  rolled  oats,  stir  well  and  let  stand  for  one  hour.  Add  the  molasses, 
salt,  fat,  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  flour;  let  the  dough  rise  to  double  its  bulk,  beat  well  and  turn 
into  greased  bread  pans;   let  rise  the  second  time,  and  bake  for  about  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Oatmeal 

1  Cupful  of  Oatmeal  1}  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

1  Quart  of  Water 
Add  the  salt  to  the  water,  boiling  directly  over  the  fire.    Into  this  stir  the  cereal,  and  when  this 
begins  to  boil  set  it  over  hot  water  to  finish  cooking.    Cook  over  water  for  six  hours.    Oatmeal  can 
be  cooked  two  hours  directly  over  fire. 

1  Egg  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 
M  Cupful  of  Sugar  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1^  Cupful  of  Milk  1  Cupful  of  Raisins 

14  Cupful  of  W'ater  5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Fat 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour  }  2  Cupful  of  Fine  Oatmeal 

Oatmeal  Cookies  (20  Cookies) 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add  the  oatmeal.  Beat  the  egg;  add  the 
sugar,  water  and  milk,  the  dry  ingredients  mixed  together,  raisins  and  melted  fat.  Drop  from  a 
spoon  on  a  greased  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Parker  House  Rolls 

2  Cupfuls  of  Warm  Water  1  Yeast  Cake  Dissolved  in 
4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat                                                    M  Cupful  Warm  Water 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar  About  5)^  Cupfuls  of  Flour 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
Add  the  warm  water  to  the  fat,  suga  ■  and  salt,  dissolving  the  fat.  Add  the  dissolved  yeast 
cake,  and  flour.  Knead  and  put  aside  to  rise.  When  it  rises  turn  the  dough  out  on  a  floured  board, 
roll  out  to  one-third-inch  thickness  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  With  the  handle  of  a  knife  make 
a  crease  in  the  center  of  the  top  of  the  roll;  brush  over  half  of  the  top  with  melted  fat,  and  fold, 
pressing  the  edges  together.  Put  in  a  greased  pan,  aiid  allow  the  rolls  to  rise.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  about  fifteen  minutes.    If  the  rolls  are  to  be  allowed  to  rise  overnight,  use  only  half  the  yeast 

^^^^-  Pickled  Beets 

4  Beets  H  Cupful  of  Vinegar 

3  Cloves  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar 

Wash  the  beets  and  cook  whole  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  the  time  varying  from  one  to 
four  hours.  Drain,  put  into  cold  water  and  remove  the  skins.  Slice.  Heat  the  vinegar,  sugar  and 
cloves  and  pour  over  the  sliced  beets.   Allow  to  stand  until  cold,  and  for  several  hours,  if  possible. 

24 


Potato  Soup  With  Carrots 

3  Medium-Sized  Potatoes  i}^^  Cupfuls  of  Milk 
2  Cupfuls  of  Water  1  Carrot 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour  IJ^  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 
Soup  Greens  Salt  and  Pepper 

2  Slices  of  Onion  Stalk  of  Celery 
Sprigs  of  Parsley 

Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes.  Cook  in  boiling  sahed  water  until  they  are  soft.  Rub  through 
a  colander.  Use  the  water  in  which  the  potatoes  were  cooked  to  make  up  the  two  cupfuls  of  water 
for  the  soup.  Cook  the  carrot,  cut  into  cubes,  in  boiling  water  until  soft;  drain.  Scald  the  milk 
with  onion,  celery  and  parsley.  Add  milk  and  water  to  the  potatoes.  Melt  the  fat  in  a  saucepan; 
add  flour,  and  cook  for  three  minutes.  Slowly  add  the  soup,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  for  one 
minute,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Add  the  cubes  of  carrots  and  serve. 

Prune  Pie 

H  Pound  of  Prunes  2^2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Cornstarch 

Wash  the  prunes  and  soak  overnight,  or  for  several  hours,  in  water  to  cover.  Cook  in  the 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked  until  they  are  tender.  Remove  the  seeds  and  cut  the  prunes 
into  quarters.  Thicken  the  juice  with  cornstarch.  Use  as  filling  for  covered  pie.  Make  the  crust 
as  for  mock  cherry  pie.  ^^.^.^  g^^^^ 

About  6  Cupfuls  of  Flour  1  Pint  of  Hot  Water 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  J^  Yeast  Cake  Dissolved  in 

IJ2  Cupfuls  of  Raisins  j|  Cupful  of  Lukewarm  Water 

1  ^  Teaspoonf uls  of  Salt 
Dissolve  the  fat  in  the  hot  water.  Allow  this  to  cool  until  just  lukewarm.  Add  the  dissolved 
yeast  cake,  salt  and  about  five  cupfuls  of  water,  stirring  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Add  the  remain- 
ing flour,  and  knead  well  on  a  board.  Return  this  mixture  to  a  bowl  and  allow  it  to  stand  over- 
night in  a  warm  place.  It  should  rise  to  double  its  bulk.  In  the  morning  remove  from  bowl,  put 
on  a  floured  board  and  knead.  While  kneading,  add  the  raisins,  which  have  been  picked  over, 
washed  and  dried.  Shape  the  dough  into  loaves,  and  put  into  greased  bread  pans.  Allow  to  rise 
until  double  its  bulk.  Bake  for  about  one  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Currants  may  be 
substituted  for  raisins,  making  currant  bread. 

Rice  Pudding  With  Raisins 

M  Cupfuls  of  Rice  fio  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water 

H  Cupful  of  Raisins  U  Teaspoonf ul  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Milk  14  Cupful  of  Sugar 

Stir  the  rice  into  the  boiling  water  and  cook  until  it  is  about  half  done,  which  will  be  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Drain  the  rice;  add  the  milk,  sugar  and  raisins,  and  place  in  a  greased  baking  dish. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  forty-five  minutes. 

Rolled  Steak  With  Dressing 

1  Pound  of  Shoulder  Clod  Steak  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

4  Cupfuls  of  Fine  Bread  Crumbs  2  Cupfuls  of  Hot  Water 

32  Small  Onion  Chopped  Fine  3^  Teaspoonful  of  Sage,  Powdered 

132  Cupfuls  of  Hot  Water  }4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Make  a  stuffing  of  the  bread  crumbs,  onion,  salt  and  sage,  adding  more  water  if  the  bread 
crumbs  are  very  dry  Heat  a  frying  pan,  sear  the  steak  in  the  frying  pan,  browning  on  both  sides. 
Remove  the  steak  and  make  into  a  roll,  with  filling  in  the  center.  Tie  in  shape.  To  the  fat  in 
the  frying  pan  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  brown.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  hot  water,  and 
stir  until  thickened.  Pour  this  gravy  over  the  steak,  put  into  the  oven  and  cook  for  three  hours, 
adding  more  water  to  the  gravy  as  it  thickens  and  turning  the  roll  occasionally  so  that  it  does  not 
become  too  dry  on  top.    Serve  with  gravy. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

14  Can  of  Salmon  1  Cupful  of  Water 

%  Cupful  of  Rice  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

3>-2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  },i  Cupful  of  Flour 

Bread  Crumbs  Fat  for  Frying 

Cook  the  rice  in  three  cupfuls  of  boiling  salted  water  for  about  twenty-five  minutes,  until  it 
is  tender.  Drain,  and  pour  boiling  water  through  it  so  that  the  grains  are  distinct.  Remove  the 
bones  from  the  salmon  and  pick  it  into  bits.  Melt  the  three  tablespoonfuls  of  fat;  add  flour,  and 
cook  together  for  three  minutes.  Add  water,  and  cook  until  thickened.  To  this  add  the  salt, 
cooked  rice  and  salmon.  Chill.  Shape  into  croquettes.  Dip  these  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  the  fat 
for  frying  until  it  begins  to  smoke.  Then  put  in  the  croquettes  and  fry  a  golden  brown.  Remove 
from  the  fat,  drain  on  paper  and  serve  with  white  sauce. 

Samp 

1  Cupful  of  Samp  3  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water 

yi  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
Wash  the  samp;    add  the  boiling  water,  and  soak  for  twelve  hours.    Drain,  rinse  with  hot 
water,  and  add  enough  fresh  hot  water  to  cover  the  samp.    Cook  for  seven  hours  on  the  back  of 
the  stove,  or  over  a  low  flame,  stirring  it  occasionally  to  prevent  from  burning.    When  nearly 
cooked,  stir  in  the  salt.  ^  „. 

Savory  Rice 
1  Cupful  of  Rice  Pepper 

1  Cupful  of  Canned-Tomato  Pulp  Put  Through  a        14  Onion 

Sieve  1  }4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  230  Cupfuls  of  Water 

25 


Add  the  rice  to  about  six  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  drain.  Fry  the  onion  in  a  saucepan  with  the  fat,  until  it  is  a  light  brown  color;  add 
the  rice,  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  the  fat  is  absorbed.  Add  the  canned-tomato  pulp, 
salt,  pepper  and  water,  and  cook  until  the  rice  has  absorbed  the  liquid  and  is  tender. 

Scalloped  Onions  and  Peanuts 

5  Medium-Sized  Onions  4  Cupfuls  of  Bread  Crumbs 
%  Cupful  of  Peanuts  1  Cupful  of  Milk 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Fat  1  Taljlespoonful  of  Flour 

Boil  the  onions;  drain  and  cut  into  slices.  Melt  the  fat;  add  the  flour,  and  cook  together  for 
three  minutes.  Add  the  milk,  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  making  a  white  sauce.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Chop  the  peanuts.  In  a  greased  baking  dish  arrange  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs 
and  onions,  sprinkling  the  onions  with  the  chopped  peanuts  and  the  white  sauce.  Have  the  top 
layer  of  crumbs.    Brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Scalloped  Potatoes 

4  Medium-Sized  Potatoes  2  Tablespoofnuls  of  Flour 

IJ^  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  Salt  and  Pepper 

Hot  Water 
Wash  the  potatoes,  pare  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices.    Put  into  the  bottom  of  a  greased 
baking  dish  a  layer  of  potatoes.    Sprinkle  these  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.    Dot  with  fat.    Make 
two  more  similar  layers.    Add  hot  water  until  it  just  reaches  the  top  layer  of  potatoes.    Bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  for  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  until  the  potatoes  are  soft. 

Scalloped  Rice  and  Tomatoes 

%  Cupful  of  Rice  6  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water 

IH  Teaspoonfuls  Salt  %  Cupful  of  Canned  Tomatoes 

14:  Cupful  of  Water  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

Salt 
Wash  the  rice,  and  pour  slowly  into  the  boiling  water  to  which  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of 
salt  have  been  added.  Boil  until  the  rice  is  about  half  done,  which  will  be  for  about  fifteen  min- 
utes. Drain  the  rice,  and  arrange  in  alternate  layers  with  tomato  in  a  greased  baking  dish.  Dot 
over  the  tomato  with  bits  of  fat.  Have  the  top  layer  of  rice.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  add  enough 
water  (half  a  cupful  or  more)  to  come  up  almost  to  the  top  of  the  rice.  Bake  in  the  oven  for 
about  forty  minutes,  until  the  rice  has  absorbed  almost  all  of  the  liquid. 

Scalloped  Salmon 

1  Cupful  of  Salmon  4  Cupfuls  of  Bread  Crumbs 
4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat                                                      3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

]/2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
Melt  the  fat;   add  the  f^our,  and  cook  together  for  three  minutes.    Add  water,  and  cook  until 
thickened.    Add  this  to  the  bread  crumbs,  adding  more  water  if  the  crumbs  are  very  dry.    Pick 
the  salmon  into  bits,  removing  pieces  of  bone.    Add  the  salmon  to  the  bread-crumb  mixture,  and 
bake  in  a  greased  baking  dish  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

2  Cupfuls  of  Canned  Tomatoes  M  Loaf  of  Stale  Bread 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  13i  Teaspoonfuls  of  Sugar 
2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

Melt  the  fat  and  add  it  to  the  tomatoes.  Toast  slices  of  bread  and  cut  them  into  inch  cubes. 
In  the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking  dish  place  one  layer  of  toasted  bread,  then  the  tomatoes,  sea- 
soned with  salt,  sugar  and  pepper.  On  top  put  another  layer  of  toasted  bread.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  about  twelve  minutes. 

Spaghetti  and  Cheese 

1  Cupful  of  Spaghetti  %  Cupful  of  Milk 

2  Quarts  of  Boiling  Water  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

1  Tablespoonful  of  Salt  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

%  Pound  of  Cheese  1  Cupful  of  Water 

Cook  the  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain.  Melt  the  fat;  add  flour,  and 
cook  for  three  minutes.  Add  the  milk  and  one  cupful  of  water,  and  cook  until  thickened.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  In  a  greased  baking  dish  arrange  alternate  layers  of  cooked  spaghetti  and 
white  sauce.  Sprinkle  the  spaghetti  with  grated  cheese.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  the 
spaghetti  is  brown.  yellow  Split-Pea  Soup 

1  Cupful  of  Split  Peas  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

2)4  Quarts  of  Cold  Water  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

14  Onion  I'a  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

1  Pint  of  Hot  Water  or  Stock  %  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

Pick  over  the  peas.  Soak  for  five  hours,  or  longer;  drain;  add  the  cold  water  and  onion. 
Simmer  for  four  hours,  or  longer,  until  the  peas  are  soft.  Rub  the  peas  through  a  sieve.  Melt  the 
fat.  Add  to  this  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  until  well  blended.  To  this  add  the  peas,  and 
the  hot  water,  or  stock.    Cook  for  five  minutes.    Serve. 

Croutons  for  Soup:  Cut  stale  bread  into  one-third-inch  cubes.  Heat  about  one  cupful  of 
fat  in  a  small  stewpan  until  it  begins  to  smoke.  Drop  in  cubes  of  bread  and  fry  until  golden  brown. 
Remove  the  bread  from  the  fat,  drain  on  unglazed  paper.   Sprinkle  in  soup  just  as  it  is  to  be  served. 

Steamed  Rice 

2  Cupfuls  of  Whole  Rice,  or  4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 
1  Cupful  of  Broken  Rice  4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Fat 

6  Cupfuls  of  Water 

26 


Let  the  water  boil.  Wash  the  rice  in  cold  water.  Put  the  salt  ana  the  fat  in  the  water,  then 
the  rice.  Continually  stir  it  until  it  starts  to  cook  and  then  let  it  cook  very  slowly  without  stirring. 
When  it  has  cooked  for  about  ten  minutes,  wash  it  off  in  hot  water.  Put  it  in  another  pot,  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  fat  and  set  this  in  another  pan,  containing  hot  water,  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
and  let  it  steam,  covered  closely,  until  the  rice  is  done. 

Stewed  Peaches  With  Raisins  (About  7  servings) 

14  Pound  of  Dried  Peaches  J2  Cupful  of  Sugar 

M  Cupful  of  Raisins 
Wash  the  peaches,  soak  them  overnight  with  water  enough  to  cover,  and  stew  them  in  the 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked.    When  about  half  done  add  the  raisins,  which  have  been  washed 
and  seeded,  and  the  sugar.    Cook  slowly  that  the  peaches  may  keep  their  shape. 

Stuffed  Beef  Heart 

1  Beef  Heart  Salt  and  Pepper  to  Taste 

2  Cupfuls  of  Fine  Bread  Cumbs  3  Medium-Sized  Carrots 

1  Chopped  Onion  3  Medium-Sized  Onions 
li  Cupful  of  Hot  Water 

Wash  the  heart  thoroughly  inside  and  out;  remove  the  veins  and  arteries.  Make  a  stuffing 
of  the  bread  crumbs,  chopped  onion  and  hot  water,  and  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  StulT  the 
heart  and  sew  up  the  opening.  Sprinkle  the  heart  with  salt  and  pepper;  brown  it  in  fat  drippings, 
and  then  cover  it  with  water  and  let  it  simmer  for  about  three  hours.  When  almost  done  add  the 
onions  and  carrots,  cut  into  slices,  and  cook  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Remove  the  heart 
from  the  gravy,  dredge  with  flour,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Thicken  the  gravy  in  which  the  heart 
has  been  cooked. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

3  Green  Peppers  J^  Cupful  of  Cooked  Rice 

2  Cupfuls  of  Cooked  Samp  J-2  Onion,  Grated 

Wash  the  peppers,  cut  them  into  halves  and  remove  the  seeds.  Parboil  the  peppers  for  fif- 
teen minutes.  Mix  together  the  cooked  rice,  cooked  samp  and  grated  onion.  Add  salt,  if  the 
cereal  has  not  been  seasoned  in  cooking.  Stuff  the  halves  of  peppers  with  the  cereal  mixture,  put 
into  a  pan  with  half  a  cupful  of  water,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  This  is  a  good  way  of  using 
left-over  cereal.    Rice  alone  or  samp  alone  or  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs  may  be  used. 

Tomato  Sauce 

1  Cupful  of  Tomatoes  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

3^4  Cupful  of  Water  '4  Small  Onion,  Chopped  Fine 

1  Tcaspoonf ul  of  Sugar  >  2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Cook  tomatoes,  onion,  sugar,  water  and  salt  together  for  ten  minutes.  Rub  through  a  coarse 
sieve.   Add  the  tomato  mixture  to  the  flour  gradually,  stirring  constantly.    Cook  until  it  thickens. 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Mock  Chicken 

J^  Cupful  of  Canned  Tomatoes  3  Slices  of  Onion 

1  Cupful  of  Water  1  Teaspoonful  of  Sugar 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

Cook  the  canned  tomatoes,  onion,  sugar  and  water  together  until  the  onion  is  soft.  Rub 
through  a  colander.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Combine  with  flour,  adding  a  small  amount 
of  liquid  to  the  flour,  and  mixing  well,  to  avoid  lumps.    Cook  until  thick. 

Vanilla  Wafers  (About  60  Small  Wafers) 

1^  Cupful  of  Sugar  1  Cupful  of  Flour 

1%  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter  1  Teaspoonful  of  Baking  Powder 

M  Egg  M  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Milk  1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar,  the  egg  well  beaten  and  the  milk.  Sift  the  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  together  and  add  these  to  the  first  mixture.  Add  the  vanilla.  Roll  very  thin. 
Cut,  and  bake  for  about  twelve  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Veal  Loaf 

1  Pound  of  Veal  Neck  J/^  Small  Onion 

1-16  Pound  of  Fat  Pork  %  Teaspoonful  of  Mustard 

3  Cupfuls  of  Bread  Crumbs  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Put  the  veal  through  a  meat  chopper;  add  the  bread  crumbs,  the  onion  finely  chopped,  salt 
and  mustard,  and  mix  well  together.  If  the  bread  crumbs  are  very  dry,  it  may  be  necessary  to  add 
a  little  water  so  that  the  mixture  will  be  moist  enough  to  be  shaped  into  a  loaf.  Place  the  loaf  in 
a  baking  pan,  dredge  with  flour,  and  pour  half  a  cupful  of  water  around  it.  Lay  thin  slices  of  fat 
pork  across  the  top.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  two  hours,  basting  occasionally. 

Welsh  Rarebit  on  Toast 

14  Pound  of  Cheese  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat 

M  Teaspoonful  of  Mustard  M  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Milk  Yi  Teaspoonful  of  Vinegar 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour  Pepper 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  flour,  and  mix  well.  Add  the  milk,  and  cook  until  thickened.  Add 
the  cheese,  cut  into  bits,  and  cook  until  it  is  melted.    Add  salt,  pepper,  vinegar.    Serve  on  toast. 

27 


Recipes  Used  on  the  Chicago  Diet  Squad 

Meat  Dishes 
New  England  Boiled  Dinner 

2  Medium  Cabbages  6  Onions 

2  Medium  Rutabagas  2  Pounds  of  Lean  Salt  Pork 

4  Potatoes  4  Cloves 
6  Carrots  Allspice 

Boil  the  salt  pork  with  the  spices  until  tender;  cook  the  rutabagas  and  carrots  in  water  suffi- 
cient to  cover  for  twenty  minutes;  add  the  cabbages,  onions  and  potatoes;  cook  until  the  v^ege- 
tables  are  tender.    Arrange  the  vegetables  on  a  serving  dish  with  the  sliced  salt  pork  over  them. 

Meat  Pie 

2)4  Pounds  of  Lean  Beef,  Cooked  1  Tablespoonful  of  Chopped  Parsley 

3  Cupfuls  of  Diced  Potatoes  5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Beef  Drippings 

1  Cupful  of  Diced  Carrots  4  Cupfuls  of  Stock 
,W  Onion  (Small)  Salt  and  Pepper 

5  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

Cut  the  cooked  beef  into  half-inch  dice.  Cook  the  vegetables.  Make  a  sauce  by  browning 
the  onion  in  fat.  Add  the  flour  and  hot  stock,  and  cook  well.  Mix  the  meat,  vegetables,  sauce 
and  parsley.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  pudding  dish  and  cover  with  crust  rolled  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick.    Bake  for  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Pastry  for  Cover 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour  ?4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

4  Level  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  About  ^,i  Cupful  of  Milk 

1  Level  Tablespoonful  of  Lard 

Braised  Beef 
4  Pounds  of  Beef  (lower  part  of  round)  '  :>  Cupful  of  Carrots 

2  Thin  Slices  of  Fat  Salt  Pork  }  o  Cupful  of  Turnips 
I'i  Teaspoonful  of  Peppercorns  }2  Cupful  of  Onions 

Salt  and  Pepper 
Fry  out  the  pork  and  remove  the  scraps.  Wipe  the  meat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour  and  brown  the  entire  surface  in  pork  fat.  Place  on  a  rack  in  a  covered  roast  pan. 
Surround  with  vegetables,  peppercorns  and  three  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Cov^er  closely  and 
bake  for  four  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven,  basting  every  half  hour  and  turning  every  second  hour. 
Throughout  the  cooking  the  liquid  should  be  kept  below  the  boiling  point. 

Cannelon  of  Beef 

4  Pounds  of  Lean  Beef,  Cut  From  the  Round  1  Teaspoonful  of  Onion  Juice 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Finely  Chopped  Parsley  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Butterine 

1  Egg  }/2  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

A  Few  Gratings  of  Nutmeg 
Chop  the  meat  fine  and  add  the  remaining  ingredients  in  the  order  given.    Shape  in  a  roll, 
place  on  a  rack  in  dripping  pan  and  arrange  slices  of  fat  pork  over  the  top;    bake  for  thirty  min- 
utes.   Baste  everv  five  minutes  with  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  butterine,  which  has  been  melted  in 
one  cupful  of  boiling  water.  ^^^^  Tenderloin 

Pound  both  sides  of  the  meat,  either  round  or  flank  steak.  Cut  into  strips,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour.  Put  bacon  drippings  in  a  hot  skillet  and  brown  the  meat  on 
both  sides.  Pour  over  hot  water  to  more  than  cover.  Cover  the  pan  and  simmer  until  tender  (for 
about  two  hours  and  a  half).  Mutton  Fricassee 

Three  pounds  of  mutton  from  the  forequarter,  cut  by  the  butcher  into  pieces  for  serving. 
Wipe  the  meat,  put  into  a  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Remove 
from  the  water,  cool,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  saute  in  butter  or  mutton 
fat.  Arrange  on  a  platter  and  pour  around  it  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  brown  sauce  made  from 
the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked,  after  removing  all  fat.  It  is  better  to  cook  the  meat 
the  day  before  serving,  as  fat  may  then  be  easily  removed. 

The  Brown  Sauce 

3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Fat  1  '^  Cupfuls  of  Brown  Stock 

2  Slices  of  Onion  ^4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour  '  s  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

Cook  the  onion  in  fat  until  slightly  browned;  remove  the  onion  and  stir,  adding  the  flour 
and  seasonings.    Brown  the  flour  and  add  the  warm  stock  gradually. 

Dumplings  to  Go  With  Mutton  Fricassee 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour  H  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

4  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Butter 

%  Cupful  of  Milk 
Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  work  in  the  butter  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Add  the 
milk  gradually,  using  a  knife  for  mixing.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat  and  roll  out  to  one-half- 
inch  thickness.  Shape  with  a  biscuit  cutter  first  dipped  in  flour.  Place  closely  together  in  a  but- 
tered steamer,  put  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  cover  closely  and  steam  for  twelve  minutes.  A 
perforated  tin  pie  plate  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  steamer.  A  little  more  milk  may  be  used  in 
the  mixture,  when  it  may  be  taken  by  spoonfuls,  dropped  and  cooked  on  top  of  the  stew.  In  this 
case  some  of  the  liquid  must  be  removed  so  that  the  dumplings  may  rest  on  the  meat  and  not 
settle  into  the  liquid. 

28 


FISH  AND  OYSTER  RECIPES 

Creamed  Codfish 

6  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butterine  Pepper 

8  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour  1  Quart  of  Milk 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  1  Pound  of  Codfish 

Melt  the  butterine  and,  when  bubbling,  add  the  flour  and  seasonings;    when  thoroughly 

blended,  add  the  liquid,  about  one-third  at  a  time,  stirring  until  well  mixed;    then  beat  until 

smooth  and  glossy.    Add  the  flaked  codfish  and  serve. 

Brown  Fricassee  of  Oysters 

1  Quart  of  Oysters  1  Pint  of  Oyster  Liquor 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter  1  Cupful  of  Milk 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butterine  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

y2  Cupful  of  Flour  li  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

A  Few  Grains  of  Cayenne 
Parboil  the  oysters;  drain;  reserve  the  liquor;  beat,  strain  and  set  aside  for  the  sauce.   Brown 
the  butter  and  butterine;  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  well  browned.   Add  the  oyster  liquor,  milk, 
seasoning  and  oysters.     Serve  on  toast.    Qyster  Puree 

1  Quart  of  Oysters  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

IH  Cupfuls  of  Oyster  Liquor  3^  Teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter  Sauce 

Pepper  and  Salt,  if  needed 
Wash  the  oysters  and  cook  them  until  the  edges  curl;    chop  them  very  fine.    Make  a  white 
sauce;    add  the  oysters  and  juice  to  it  and,  when  hot,  strain  and  serve.    The  white  sauce  is  pre- 
pared by  melting  the  butter,  adding  the  flour  and  then  the  hot  milk  gradually. 

WAFFLES  AND  GRIDDLECAKES 

Waffles 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour  J2  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  2  Eggs 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter  II/2  Cupfuls  of  Milk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  sift  together  several  times.  Work  in  the  butter  with  the  tips  of 
the  fingers;  separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  add  the  milk  to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 
Add  this  mixture  to  the  dry  ingredients  gradually  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
If  the  batter  is  too  stiff,  more  milk  may  be  added. 

Griddlecakes 

3  Cupfuls  of  Flour  2  Cupfuls  of  Milk 
IH  Tablespoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  1  Egg 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butter 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients;  beat  the  egg;  add  the  milk  and  pour  slowly  on  first  mix- 
ture.   Beat  thoroughly  and  add  melted  butter. 

SOUPS 

Tomato  Soup 

1  Can  of  Tomatoes  1)4.  Teaspoonfuls  of  Salt 

1  Pint  of  Water  }/2  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

12  Peppercorns  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Butterine 

A  Bit  of  Bay  Leaf  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

4  Cloves  y^  Teaspoonful  of  Pepper 

1  Slice  of  Onion 

2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Sugar 

Cook  the  first  seven  ingredients  for  thirty  minutes;   strain,  and  add  the  soda  and  salt.    Melt 

the  butterine;    add  the  flour  and  seasonings,  then  the  strained  tomato.    Cook  for  ten  minutes. 

Serve  hot.  c      ^.     ^^.  „ 

Spaghetti  Soup 

2  Quarts  of  Brown  Soup  Stock  Onion,  Salt,  Pepper 

1  Cupful  of  Spaghetti,  Broken  Fine  2  Cupfuls  of  Tomatoes,  Stewed  and  Strained 
Cook  the  spaghetti  in  the  stock  until  tender.    Add  the  tomatoes  and  seasoning. 

Julianne  Soup 

To  one  quart  of  clear  brown  soup  stock  add  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  each  of  carrots  and  turnips 
cut  into  thin  strips  an  inch  and  a  half  long  and  previously  cooked  in  boiling  salt  water.  To  this 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cooked  peas  and  string  beans. 

Soup  Stock 

6  Pounds  of  Meat  and  Bone  Carrot  "1 

6  Quarts  of  Water  Turnip   \  y  ^^^  ^^   ^^  j  ^    pj 

Vi  Teaspoonful  of  Peppercorns  Onion     {^-^"^  • 

6  Cloves  Celery   J 

H  Bay  Leaf  1  Tablespoonful  of  Salt 

2  Sprigs  of  Parsley 

Wipe  the  beef,  and  cut  the  lean  meat  into  half-inch  cubes.  Brown  one-third  of  the  meat  in 
marrow  from  the  marrow  bone.  Put  the  remaining  two-thirds  with  the  bone  and  fat  in  a  soup 
kettle;  add  the  water,  and  let  stand  for  thirty  minutes.  Place  over  a  slow  fire;  add  the  browned 
meat,  and  heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point.  As  the  scum  rises  it  should  be  removed.  Cover 
and  cook  slowly  for  six  hours,  keeping  it  below  the  boiling  point  during  cooking.  Add  the  vege- 
tables and  seasonings,  cook  one  hour  and  a  half;   strain,  and  cool  as  quickly  as  possible. 

29 


VEGETABLE  DISHES 
Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Cook  for  five  minutes  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  one  small  onion  cut  into  thin  slices; 
add  three  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  quarter-inch  slices  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  stir  until 
well  mixed  with  onion  and  butter;  let  stand  until  the  potato  is  brown  underneath;  fold  and  turn 
on  a  hot  platter.  This  dish  is  much  improved  and  the  potatoes  brown  better  by  the  addition  of 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  stock.    Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley  if  desired. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Georgia  Style 

Season  boiled  and  mashed  sweet  potatoes  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Moisten  with  hot 
milk  or  cream  and  beat  for  five  minutes.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  leaving  a  rough  surface, 
and  pour  over  a  sirup  made  by  boiling  four  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
butter  together.    Bake  until  dehcately  browned. 

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 

6  Sweet  Potatoes  84  Cupful  of  Sugar 

4  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water  1  Tablespoonful  of  Butterine 

Wash  and  pare  six  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes.  Cook  them  for  ten  minutes  in  boiling 
water;  cut  into  halves  lengthwise  and  put  in  a  buttered  pan.  Make  a  sirup  by  boiling  the  half 
cupful  of  sugar  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water  for  three  minutes;  add  the  tablespoonful  of  but- 
terine.   Brush  the  potatoes  with  sirup  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  basting  twice  with  remaining 

Harvard  Beets 

Wash  twelve  small  beets;  cook  them  in  boiling  water  until  soft;  remove  the  skins  and  cut  the 
beets  into  thin  slices,  small  cubes  or  fancy  shapes.  Mix  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  half  a  table- 
spoonful of  cornstarch;  add  one  cupful  of  vinegar,  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  this  liquor 
over  the  beets  and  let  them  stand  on  the  back  of  the  range  half  an  hour.    Just  before  serving  add 

one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  „,  .,     ,  ,    -  .     t.   ..  1 

Philadelphia  Relish 

2  Cupfuls  of  Cabbage  J^  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

2  Green  Peppers,  Finely  Chopped  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Brown  Sugar 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Celery  Seed  J4  Cupful  of  Vinegar 
}i  Teaspoonful  of  Mustard  Seed 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given. 

BREAD,  CAKES,  MUFFINS,  BISCUITS,  COOKIES,  PIES  AND  TARTS 
Brown  Raisin  Bread 

4  Cupfuls  of  Rye  Meal  1   Cupful  of  Molasses 

2  Cupfuls  of  Corn  Meal  4  Cupfuls  of  Sour  Milk 
1   Tablespoonful  of  Soda  1   Cupful  of  Raisins 

1   Teaspoonful  of  Salt 
Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly;    add  the  molasses  and  milk.    Beat  well  and  add  the 
raisins  slightly  floured.    Put  into  a  greased  mold.    Cover  tightly;    cook  over  steam  for  six  hours. 
Remove  from  the  tin;  dry  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes. 

Gingerbread 

M  Cupful  of  Butterine  IM  Cupfuls  of  Flour 

}4  Cupful  of  Sugar  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Ginger 

}4  Cupful  of  Molasses  1  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 

1  Egg  1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 
14  Cupful  of  Sour  Milk 
Cream  the  butterine;   add  the  sugar,  molasses,  sour  milk,  and  the  egg  well  beaten.    Mix  and 

sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  the  first  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  from  thirty  to 

forty-five  minutes.  „        i-^^  »»    «i 

•^  One-Egg  Muffins 

3}4  Cupfuls  of  Flour  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Melted  Butter 

6  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder  1  Egg 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  3  Tablespoonfuls  of  Sugar 

114  Cupfuls  of  Milk 
Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients;   add  gradually  the  milk,  egg  well  beaten  and  melted  butter. 
Bake  in  buttered  gem  pans  for  twenty-five  minutes.    This  recipe  makes  thirty  muffins.  —  Boston 

Cooking  School  Cook  Book.  „   ^      /-.     .  . 

Sugar  Cookies 

M  Cupful  of  Sugar  '4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Egg  '4  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Water  }4  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 
J^  Cupful  of  Butterine 

2  Cupfuls  of  Flour 
Cream  the  butter;    add  the  sugar,  eggs  and  water,  which  have  been  beaten  together.    Mix 
and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  the  first  mixture.    Flavor,  roll  thin,  sprinkle  with  gran- 
ulated sugar.    Cut  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Washington  Cream  Pie 

H  Cupful  of  Butterine  P4'  Cupfuls  of  Flour 

1  Cupful  of  Sugar  2 '  ■>  Teaspoonfuls  of  Baking  Powder 

1  Egg  j  2  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

H  Cupful  of  Milk 
Cream  the  butterine;  add  the  sugar,  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  egg,  the  ingredients,  which  have 
been  sifted  together.    Add  the  flavoring  and  stiffly  beaten  whites.    Bake  in  two  layers.    Put  cream 
filling  between  the  layers  and  sprinkle  the  top  with  powdered  sugar. 

30 


Cream  Filling 

1^  Cupful  of  Sugar  1  ijgg 

K  Cupful  of  Flour  IJ.^  Cupfuls  of  Scaled  Milk 

Vi  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  1  Teaspoonful  of  Vanilla 

Mix,, the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  pour  on  gradually  scalded  milk. 
Cook  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens.    Cool  and  flavor. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

1  Vi  Cupfuls  of  Steamed  and  Strained  Pumpkin  J^2  Teaspoonful  of  Ginger 

H  Cupful  of  Sugar  y^  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon  2  Eggs 

2  Cupfuls  of  Milk 
Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given  and  bake  in  one  crust. 

Pastry 

1  Cupful  of  Pastry  Flour  }4  Cupful  of  Lard  or  Other  Fat 

I4  Teaspoonful  of  Salt  Ice  Water 

Sift  the  flour  and  salt  together,  cut  in  the  fat  with  a  knife,  and  add  sufficient  water  to  hold  the 
dry  materials  together. 

Lemon  Tarts 
6  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour  1  Tablespoonful  of  Grated  Lemon  Rind 

Vi  Cupful  of  Sugar  2  Teaspoonfuls  of  Butter 

3  Cupfuls  of  Boiling  Water  1  Egg  Yolk 

6  Tablespoonfuls  of  Lemon  Juice 
Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  together.    Add  the  boiling  water  slowly  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes 
in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  frequently.    Separate  the  egg  and  beat  the  yolk  very  light.    Add  the 
first  mixture  to  the  yolk;   add  the  butter,  return  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes 
stirring  constantly.    Add  the  lemon  juice  and  rind  and,  when  cool,  place  in  baked  tart  shells. 

Meringue 

D      ^  *x!  ^^f  ■^''''''        .•«        jj    u  ,      ,  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Powdered  Sugar 

Beat  the  white  very  stiff;  add  the  sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beating  for  several  minutes 
Place  a  portion  on  each  tart.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  delicate  brown. 

PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 
Mock  Plum  Pudding 

1  Cupful  of  Grated  Raw  Carrots  1  Teaspoonful  of  Nutmeg 

1  Cupful  of  Grated  Raw  Potatoes  1  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 

}2  Cupful  of  Melted  Butter  1  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

1  Cupful  of  Sugar  1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda 

1  Cupful  of  Flour  2  Cupfuls  of  Raisins 

Mix  the  carrots,  potatoes,  melted  butter  and  sugar;  then  add  the  flour,  mixed  and  sifted  with 
the  other  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  raisins  that  have  been  dredged  with  a  little  of  the  flour. 
Steam  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  or  less  if  small  molds  are  used. 

Custard  Sauce 

2  Cupfuls  of  Milk  i|  Cupful  of  Sugar 

„  2  Eggs  1^  Teaspoonful  of  Salt 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly;    add  the  sugar  and  salt.    Stir  constantly  while  adding  gradually  the 

hot  milk.    Cook  in  a  double  boiler.    Continue  stirring  until  the  mixture  thickens  and  a  coating  is 

formed  on  the  spoon.    Strain  immediately,  chill  and  flavor. 

Hunter's  Pudding 

1  Cupful  of  Finely  Chopped  Suet  3^  Teaspoonful  of  Cloves 

1  Cupful  of  Molasses  1^  Teaspoonful  of  Mace 

1  Cupful  of  Milk  1^  Teaspoonful  of  Allspice 

3  Cupfuls  of  Flour  1  Teaspoonful  of  Cinnamon 
1  Teaspoonful  of  Soda                                                     1 1^  Cupfuls  of  Raisins 

1  H  Teaspooniuls  of  Salt  2  Tablespoonfuls  of  Flour 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  molasses  and  milk  to  the  suet.  Combine  the 
mixtures,  and  add  the  raisins,  which  have  been  floured.  Turn  into  a  greased  mold,  cover,  and 
steam  for  three  hours. 


31 


0  014  485  555  3 


THE  NEW  HOUSEKEEPING  BOOKLETS 

"How  TO  Dry  Fruits  and  Vegetables"  —  This  booklet 
has  been  prepared  to  supply  the  demand  from  our  readers  for 
information  on  this  subject.     Price,  15  cents. 

"Like  Grandmother  Used  to  Make" — A  book  of  old- 
fashioned  recipes  from  old-time  kitchens.     Price, ■■MMt.l''^  06 

"A  Guide  to  Menu-Making"  —  This  will  aid  you  in  plan- 
ning balanced  menus  to  fit  your  food  budget.     Price,  6  cents. 

"Candies,  Cakes  and  Cookies"  gives  you  a  great  many 
ideas  for  making,  •  packing,  pricing  and  marketing  homemade 
confections.     Price,  10  cents. 

"The  Ladies'  Home  Journal  Budget  Chart"  serves  as 
a  guide  in  working  out  your  special  problem  of  dividing  your 
finances.     Price,  10  cents. 

"How  to  Can  Fruits,  Vegetables  and  Meats" — This 
booklet  gives  recipes  not  only  for  canning  by  the  cold-pack 
method,  but  also  takes  up  pickling  and  jellymaking.  Price,  15 
cents. 

Address  orders  for  these  booklets,  inclosing  price,  to  the 
New  Housekeeping  Editor,  The  Ladies'  Home  Journal, 
Independence  Square,  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania. 


32 


Li 


LlBRRKif    ur 


0  014  485  555  3  9 


