TX 

715 : 


E 


<* 
<* 
<* 


NAHftHMniMIMtH 


(OOK  BOOK 


*SB 


osw 


^.^ 


By 


AIRS.  ELIZABETH    M.  WEETER 


Class :'\3J£- 


Copyright  If 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


THE  LUTHERAN  COOK-BOOK 


A 


compilation    of   carefully   selected   and   tried     recipes   for 
three   times   every   day  eating, 


We  may   live   without   poetry,    music   and   art, 

We  may   live   without   conscience   and   live   without   heart, 

WTe  may   live   without   friends,     we   may   live   without  books, 

But  civilized   man   cannot   live   without   cooks. 

J&  J&  J& 

FOURTH    EDITION 

Compiled  by 
MRS.    ELIZABETH    M.    WEETER 

Ccpvright,    1907 


Oop.yiiiim  entry 

FsJb    1°     lcic7 
GLASS*  XXc.  NO. 

B. 


INTRODUCTION 


1|The  wide-spread  popularity  of  former  editions  of  this 
book,  and  a  growing  demand  for  practical  recipes  which 
stick   to   one's   ribs,     is   our   apology   for   this    one. 

•The  recipes  in  this  book  are  gathered  from  many  sources; 
some  of  them  are  old,  some  are  new,  all,  we  believe, 
are   good. 

llThis,  the  fourth  edition,  is  revised,  enlarged,  and  in 
part   rewritten. 

1|In  submitting  it  to  the  progressive  housewife  our  aim  is 
to  provide  her  with  a  cook-book  in  the  careful,  intelligent 
use  of  which  she  will  be  able  to  set  her  table  appetiz- 
ingly   and,    at   the   same   time,     economically. 


Price    35    cents,      postpaid 


Address 

Mrs.   Elizabeth  M.   Weeter, 
Newark,  Ohio. 


INDEX 

Page 

Meats  and  Eggs 5 

Soups 13 

Poultry  and  Game 19 

Fish  and  Oysters 23 

Vegetables 27 

Salads,  etc ; 32 

Bread ,  Fritters , etc 37 

Pies,   Puddings,   Ice  Creams,    Desserts 43 

Cakes,   Icings,    Fillings 53 

Pickles 66 

Be  verages 71 

Fruits,  Jellies,  and  Preserves 77 

Candies 83 

Miscellaneous 89 

What  Householders  should    Remember 94 

Domestic  Emergencies 98 


Let    me  do  your   Cooking 

Why  won}-,  watch  and  fret  over  a  hot  stove 
when  3'ou  can  put  your  meat,  vegetables, cus- 
tards— in  short,  the  whole  meal  for  the 
whole  family,  into  my  ample  shelves  and 
cook  it,  as  food  never  was  or  can  be  cooked 
in  any  other  way,  over  ONE  BURNER  of 
stove,  range,  gas,  gasoline  or  oil  stove? 

I  come  in  both  round  and  square 

shapes — both       kind      have 

whistles* 

Prices  $2.00,    $2.50,    $3.00 
$4.50  up. 


nothing    overdone 
I  am  the 
COMBINATION 


COOKER 
AND  BAKER 


No  watching;  no  basting; 
nor  underdone. 

IDEAL  STEAH 

made  of  heavy  tin  or  copper,  with  ALL  COPPER,  seamless 
drawn  tank;  seamless  top.  No  sharp  corners  on  me  to  catch  the 
clothing  or  hands  or  to  retain  grease  and  dirt.  I  BLOW  MY 
WHISTLE  20  minutes  before  waterneeds  replenishing;  never  go 
on  a  strike  nor  talk  back.  I  CUT  THE  COST  OF  FUEL  and 
WORK  IN  HALF,  save  time  and  water  and  tear  on  your  tem- 
per and  vocabulary.  I  hold  12  one  quart  cans  in  canning  fruit. 
Write  right   now 

Pf/^pk  RrknLr  48  pages.  It  tells  all  about  me.  Gives  full  de- 
rlCC  DtJOiX  tails;  letters  from  people  all  over  the  laud  who 
would  not  do  without  me  for  ten  times  what  I  cost. 

TOLEDO    COOKER    CO., 

1322     West     Bancroft    St.,        Toledo,   Ohio 


Meat  and  E££s 


Beefsteak  Roll. — Cut  a  slice  from  the  round  weighing 
two  pounds  and  about  one  inch  thick.  Cut  one  slice  of  fat 
salt  pork  into  small  pieces  or  cubes.  Lay  the  meat  on  a 
board,  sprinkle  the  pork  over  and  roll  up  tight;  tie  a  stout 
thread  round  in  several  places  and  steam  three  hours.  From 
the  liquid  in  the  dish  in  which  the  meat  was  placed  make 
a  gravy,  using  brown  flour  for  thickening".  Serve  with 
baked  potatoes. 

Veal  Cutlets,  German  Style. — Two  pounds  of  veal  cut- 
lets, one  egg,  beaten  light,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter, pinch  of  pepper,  salt  to  taste.  Cut  the  veal  cutlets  into 
neat  pieces,  about  the  size  of  a  silver  dollar,  pepper  and  salt 
lightly,  dip  each  piece  into  the  beaten  egg  and  melted  but- 
ter, and  fry  ten  minutes  in  a  little  butter  or  good  dripping. 
They  should  be  a  nice  brown  on  each  side.  Put  in  a  plat- 
ter and  pour  tomato  sauce  over  them. 

A  Pot  Roast. —  Use  for  this  a  portion  of  the  brisket, 
which  is  one  of  the  cheapest  cuts  of  meat.  To  prepare, 
place  in  a  pot  without  water,  and  stir  about  over  the  fire 
till  well  browned,  after  which  add  boiling  water  nearly 
sufficient  to  cover  the  meat.  Boil  slowly  till  done,  allow- 
ing twenty  minutes  to  a  pound,  adding  when  half  done  the 
salt.  Half  an  hour  before  done,  pare  a  few  potatoes,  and 
place  them  under  the  meat.  When  ready  to  take  from  the 
fire,  thicken  with  flour,  adding  curry  at  the  same  time  if 
desired.  If  properly  cooked,  the  meat  will  be  tender  and 
the  gravy  rich  and  free  from  grease  and  lumps. — The  Luth- 
eran (  )bserver. 

Baked  Ham. — Ham  intended  for  boiling  should  be  thor- 
oughly washed,  rubbing  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Put  into  a 
large  vessel,  so  that  it  may  be  covered  with  cold  water. 
If  large,  boil  about  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of  ham. 

5 


When  done,  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  cool.  Remove  the 
skin  and  spread  over  the  top  a  mixture  made  as  follows  : 
(  >ne  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  one-half  tablespoonful  black 
pepper,  and  two  teaspponfuls  of  brown  sugar.  Lay  the 
ham  in  a  pan  and  pour  mixture  over  it.  Bake,  basting  fre- 
quently. 

Meat  Cakes. — Take  raw  beef,  and  with  chopper  cut 
finely,  as  for  sausage  meat.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  if  desired,  a  little  raw  onion,  but  this  must  be  cut  very 
finely.  Shape  into  balls  like  sausage  meat,  and  fry  in  hot 
fat,  as  one  would  doughnuts.  Care  must  be  taken  that  the 
meat  is  well  cooked. — Mrs.  O.  H.  Melchor,  Springtown, 
Pa. 

Veal  Croquetts. — Chop  fine  cold  cooked  veal ;  add  one- 
third  as  much  mashed  potatoes,  and  one-half  onion,  chop- 
ped fine  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  with  egg,  then  make 
into  small  cakes;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  cracker 
dust,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. — Mrs.  Geo.  Geiss,  Allentown, 
Pa. 

Hash. — Cut  fine  any  cold  beef  that  may  be  left  from 
a  meal,  2  onions,  4  large  potatoes.  Amount  of  onions  and 
potatoes  must  be  increased  or  diminished  according  to 
amount  of  meat  used.  After  making  a  gravy  of  I  table- 
spoonful of  lard  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  then  stir  in  the  meat,  onions. 
potatoes  and  a  little  parslev  cut  fine  ;  boil  about  fifteen  min- 
utes.—Mrs.  L.  B.  Hafer,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Hamburg  Steak. — One-half  pound  lean,  raw  beef  chop- 
ped fine,  season  with  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Shape  into 
small  flat  balls,  using  but  little  pressure.  Put  into  frying 
pan  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  when  hot  put  in  steak. 
Turn  frequently.  A  little  chopped  salt  pork  is  an  improve- 
ment.   * 

Veal  Loaf. — Two  pounds  ground  veal  or  beef,  one-half 
cup  cracker  crumbs,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  rich  cream, 
butter  size  of  an  egg  and  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  suit 
taste.  Mix  all  together  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Put  in 
pan  with  little  water.     Cover  and  bake  till  the  juice  comes 

6 


out  on  top.  This  can  be  served  warm  or  cold. — Miss  Emma 
Senseman,  New  Kingston,  Pa. 

Beef  Juice. — Take  fresh,  juicy  beef,  remove  all  fat  and 
skin  and  cut  in  half  inch  blocks.  Place  pan  on  stove,  when 
hot  put  in  a  little  of  the  meat  at  a  time,  turning  pan  from 
side  to  side  until  it  turns  white  (do  not  fry),  remove  from 
pan  and  put  into  beef  press  and  squeeze  all  the  juice  from 
it.     Serve  with  cracked  ice  and  salt  to  taste. 

Ham  Toast. — Toast  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  there 
are  people  to  serve.  For  each  slice  allow  the  yolk  of  one 
egg  beaten,  a  spoonful  of  milk  and  a  rounding  tablespoon- 
ful  of  minced  cold  boiled  ham.  Let  the  ham  heat  through 
and  the  eggs  curdle,  but  not  harden  and  spread  on  the  toast 
at  once.    If  the  mixture  boils  it  will  be  spoiled. 

Beef  Loaf. — Two  pounds  of  beef  steak  ground  fine,  one 
cup  cracker  crumbs,  one-half  cup  melted  butter,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  sweet  milk  (hot)  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Water 
may  be  used  instead  of  milk.  Mix  well  together  and  form 
into  a  loaf.  Bake  about  two  hours,  basting  with  water 
while  baking. — Mrs.  Charles  Hetrick,  New  Kingston,  Pa. 

Veal  Loaf. — Select  a  knuckle  of  veal,  or  any  bony  piece 
that  has  a  large  proportion  of  gelatine.  Cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  remove  any  fragments  of  bone.  Cover  with  cold  water, 
boil  quickly,  skim  and  add  one  onion,  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  one  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Let  it  simmer  until  the  meat 
slips  from  the  bone,  the  gristly  portions  are  dissolved,  and 
the  liquor  reduced  to  one  cup.  Remove  the  meat,  pick  out 
all  the  bones,  strain  the  liquor  and  season  highly  with  salt, 
lemon  juice  and  pepper,  and  slightly  with  sage  or  thyme. 
Chop  or  pick  the  meat  apart ;  add  two  or  three  tablespoons 
of  powdered  cracker  and  the  meat  liquor;  mix  well  and  put 
into  a  bread  pan.  Put  it  in  a  cool  place  and  when  hard, 
serve  in  thin  slices.  The  gelatine  in  the  meat  liquor  will 
harden  and  hold  the  meat  together  without  pressure.  Serve 
in  slices  daintily  garnished. — This  is  Mrs.  Lincoln's  Recipe. 

Stuffed  Beefsteak. — Take  a  round  <A  beef  steak,  salt 
and  pepper.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs  and  parsley; 
butter   same   as    for   chicken,   and    lay    in   the   steak;   tie   up 


and  put  in  pan  to  roast.  Lay  a  slice  of  fat  salt  pork  on 
top,  and  baste  often. 

Savory  Meat. — Three  and  one-half  pounds  raw  lean 
beef  from  the  round,  chopped  fine,  six  soda  chackers  rolled, 
three  eggs  not  beaten  (just  mixed),  one  tablespoon  salt, 
one  tablespoon  pepper,  one  nutmeg,  four  tablespoons  cream, 
one  spoon  water,  small  piece  butter,  one  teaspoon  parsley. 
Bake  in  oven  one  and  one-half  hours,  basting  with  butter 
and    water. 

Deviled  Ham  Sandwich. — Chop  cold  boiled  ham  very 
fine.  For  each  teacupful  take  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled 
eggs,  one-half  teaspoonfnl  of  mustard,  and  half  cup  of 
nulled  butter,  some  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  A  little  chop- 
ped pickle  gives  it  a  good  taste.  Spread  between  slices  of 
bread. 

Veal  Steak. — If  it  is  necessary  to  wash  the  veal,  wipe 
dry.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  into  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  half  butter  and  lard  to  a  nice  brown.  Season  with  pep- 
per and  salt  in  the  pan. 

Veal  Loaf. — Three  pounds  veal,  one-quarter  pound 
pork,  two  eggs,  five  crackers  crumbed,  one-half  cup  milk. 
Bake  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours. — Mrs.  James  H. 
Moore,  Newark,  Ohio. 

Sandwich  Filling. — Boil  pork  tenderloin  until  tender, 
well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  grind,  mix  with  chop- 
ped nuts  and  mayonnaise.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of 
bread  with  or  without  a  lettuce  leaf. — Mrs.  F.  D.  Altman, 
Atchison,  Kansas. 

Panned  Beef. — Use  nice,  tender  steak  ;  have  pan  hot 
and  put  meat  in.  Let  be  a  moment  and  turn  ;  keep  turning 
from  side  to  side  until  done;  the  quicker  it  can  be  browned 
the  better.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  spread  plenty  of 
butter  on  both  sides.     Serve  at  once. 

Roasted  Beef. — To  roast  beef  properly,  it  should  be 
boned,  rolled  together  and  secured  by  skewers.  Prepared 
in  this  way,  a  roast  of  four  or  six  pounds  will  answer  a 
small  family  for  several  meals,  as  it  can  be  nicely  re-roast- 
ed the  see-  »n d  day.  Place  it  in  a  roaster,  dredged  with  salt, 
pepper   and    flour;   add    boiling   water,   and    roast   for   two 

8 


hours.      Longer    time    is    required    if    the    meat    is    desired 
well  done. 

To  Cook  Sweetbreads. — Having  sealded  in  salted 
water,  remove  stringy  parts.  Then  stand  them  in  cold 
water  ten  minutes.  Drain  on  towel.  Dip  into  egg  and 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter. 

Baked  Eggs. — Break  eight  eggs  into  a  well  buttered 
dish,  put  in  pepper  and  salt,  bits  of  butter,  and  three  table- 
spoons cream.  Set  in  the  water  5  minutes,  or  set  in  oven 
and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Dutch  Dish. — To  one  pound  of  veal  or  fish  remnants, 
add  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  bread  that  has  been  moistened 
with  beef  tea,  one  finely  ehoped  onion,  one-fourth  each  of 
salt  and  ground  cloves,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter, one-half  a  lemon  peel  grated,  and  the  well  beaten  yolks 
of  three  eggs.  When  these  are  mixed,  put  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  into  the  mixture,  pour  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Scrambled  Eggs. — Beat  together  eight  eggs,  add  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste,  1  pint  of  milk,  then  pour  in  a  hot  pan 
that  has  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  lard  in  it.  Fry  until  it 
can  be  taken  from  pan  on  a  cake  turner. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Ridg- 
K\  .   Hampstead,   Md. 

Pickled  Eggs. — Take  five  eggs  to  one  jar.  Boil  hard, 
peel  and  put  in  a  jar.  Scald  vinegar,  a  few  slices  of  red- 
beet,  celery  seed,  and  mustard.     Place  over  eggs  and  seal. 

Omelette. — Six  eggs,  one  cun  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful 
of  Hour,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  whites  and  yelks  separately. 
Have  a  buttered  pan  very  hot.  Bake  in  quick  oven  five 
minutes. 

Boiled  Eggs  Served  in  Cream. — Boil  one-half  dozen 
eggs  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Shell  and  cut  off 
a  little  white  so  the  egg  will  stand  up  alone.  Boil  one 
pint  of  cream  and  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  flour.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter.  Pour  the  cream 
over  the  eggs,  garnish  with  parsley  and  grated  yolk  of  a 
hard-boiled  egg. 

Deviled  Eggs. — Boil  hard  one  dozen  eggs,  put  in  old 
water  and   peel;  cut   in   halves    (lengthwise);   take   put   the 

9 


yelks  and  mash  fine,  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  hickory- 
nut,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  a  little  mustard  and  enough 
vinegar  to  mix  all  together  well.  Fill  the  whites  and  serve 
cold.— Mrs.  J.  H.  Diehl,  St.  Clairsville,  Pa. 

Fricassee  Eggs. — Toast  half  dozen  pieces  of  bread,  lay 
on  plate  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Melt  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth, 
one  and  one-half  pints  milk,  add  the  whites  of  six  hard 
boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine.  Pour  this  over  toast.  Grate 
yelks   and   sprinkle   over  top.     Serve   hot. — Mrs.   John   D. 

Lippy. 

Souffled  Eggs. — Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  pounded  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  Mother's  cornstarch,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Hour;  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter;  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Bake  15  minutes  in  quick  oven, 
and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  S.  F.  Greenhoe,  Stone  Church,  Pa. 

To  Soft  Boil  Eggs. — Bring  water  to  boiling  point  then 
put  in  eggs  and  keep  boiling  for  exactly  three  minutes. 

To  boil  a  Ham. — A  blade  of  mace,  a  few  cloves,  a 
sprig  of  thyme,  and  two  bay  leaves.  Well  soak  ham  in 
large  quantity  of  water  for  twenty-four  hours,  then  trim 
and  scrape  very  clean;  put  into  large  stewpan,  with  more 
than  sufficient  water  to  cover  it;  put  in  mace,  cloves,  thyme 
and  bay  leaves.  Boil  four  or  five  hours,  according  to 
weight :  when  done,  let  it  become  cold  in  liquor  in  which 
it  was  boiled.  Then  remove  rind  carefully,  without  injur- 
ing the  fat ;  press  cloth  over  it  to  absorb  as  much  of  the 
greese  as  possible.  It  is  always  improved  by  setting  in 
the  oven  for  nearly  an  hour,  till  much  of  the  fat  dries  out, 
and  it  also  makes  it  more  tender.  Shake  some  bread  rasp- 
ings over  the  fat.     Serve  cold  garnished  with  parsley. 

Fried  Salt  Pork. — Cut  fat  salt  pork  in  thin  slices  and 
soak  in  milk  for  a  few  hours.  Pour  boiling  water  over, 
drain  and  fry  until  crisp.  When  partly  fried  they  may 
be  dipped  into  batter,  then  finished  in  the  same  pan,  turn- 
ing several  times. 

Pork  and  Beans. — Soak  one  quart  white  beans  over 
night   in  cold  water.     Drain,  add  fresh  water,  and  simmer 

10 


gently  till  tender.  Put  in  baking  pan  and  place  in  center, 
rind  up,  gashed,  one-half  pound  fat  salt  pork  parboiled. 
Mix  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  and 
one  tablespoon  molasses;  add  to  the  beans,  with  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover.  Bake  eight  hours  in  a  moderate 
oven,  adding  more  water  as  necessary. 

Liver  and  Bacon. — Cut  liver  in  one-half  in.  slices,  soak 
in  cold  water  20  minutes,  drain,  dry  and  roll  in  flour.  Have 
pan  very  hot.  Put  in  bacon  thinly  sliced,  turn  until  brown, 
transfer  to  hot  platter.  Fry  liver  quickly  in  the  hot  fat, 
turning  often.  When  done  pour  off  all  but  one  or  two 
tablespoons  fat,  dredge  in  flour  until  it  is  absorbed,  and 
stir  till  brown.  Add  hot  water  gradually  to  make  smooth 
gravy,  season  and  boil  one  minute.     Serve  separately. 

Few  people  know  that  lamb's  liver  is  as  tender  and 
well  flavored  as  calf's  liver;  it  is  much  less  expensive. 

Stew,  Irish. — Time,  about  two  hours.  Two  and  one- 
half  pounds  chops,  eight  potatoes,  four  turnips,  four  small 
onions,  nearly  a  quart  of  water.  Take  some  chops  from 
l<»in  of  mutton,  place  them  in  a  stewpan  in  alternate  layers 
of  sliced  potatoes  and  chops  ;  add  turnips  and  onions  cut 
into  pieces,  pour  in  nearly  quart  cold  water;  cover  stew- 
pan  closely,  let  stew  gently  till  vegetables  are  ready  to 
mash  and  greater  part  of  gravy  is  absorbed;  then  place  in 
a  dish  ;  serve  it  up  hot. 

Mutton  Haricot. — Cut  two  pounds  breast  mutton  in 
pieces,  roll  in  flour,  and  brown  in  drippings.  Transfer  to 
a  stewpan,  and  two  sliced  onions,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  simmer  until  very  tender.  Add  one  pint  parboiled  po- 
tatoes or  one  pint  boiled  macaroni  and  one  pint  shelled 
peas;  season,  simmer  till  vegetables  are  done. 

Brown  Kidney  Stew. — From  a  beef  kidney  cut  off  the 
outside  meat  in  bits,  rejecting  tubes  and  purplish  cores. 
Cover  with  cold  water;  heat  slowly  till  steaming,  drain, 
;\(\i\  cold  water,  and  heat  a  second  and  again  a  third  time. 
To  the  drained  kidneys  add  one  cup  brown  sauce,  season 
very  highly  with  AYorcestershire  and  catsup,  and  stand 
over  hot  water  for  ten  minutes. 

II 


Memorandum 


12 


Soups 


Vegetable  Soup. — Boil  a  beef  bone,  or  a  piece  of  beef 
until  well  done;  add  boiling  water  enough  to  make  amount 
wanted;  add  about  a  pint  of  chopped  cabbage,  a  half  pint 
of  tomatoes,  three  small  onions,  three  potatoes,  three  car- 
rots, a  half  pint  of  sweet  corn,  parsley  and  summer  savory 
to  suit  taste.  Let  all  boil  slowly  an  hour  or  longer.  If 
1  (referred,  you  can  add  a  little  thickening.  Serve  with 
crackers. 

Corn  Soup. — Grate  carefully  one  pint  of  fresh  corn, 
being  careful  not  to  get  any  of  the  cob  in ;  add  to  the 
corn  one  pint  ^\  water,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  When 
tender,  add  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  (morning's  milk  pre- 
ferred), three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rubbed  smooth  with 
one  tablespoonful  oi  flour,  and  a  little  salt.  Let  it  boil  up, 
then  serve  with  crisp  butter  wafers. — Lutheran  (  )bserver. 

A  Delicious  Corn  Soup. —  Use  for  every  canful  of  corn 
one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  level 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-sixth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion.  Mash  the  corn  as  fine 
as  possible,  and  then  put  it  into  the  double  boiler.  Put 
the  milk — except  one  gill,  which  you  will  reserve  for  blend- 
ing the  flour — with  the  corn,  and  cook  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Cook  the  onion  in  the  butter  for  about  ten  minutes, 
stirring  frequently  and  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn, 
and  add  it  to  the  corn  and  milk.  Mix  the  cold  milk  which 
you  reserved  with  the  Hour,  and  when  it  is  well  blended 
and  perfectly  smooth  stir  into  the  hot  mixture.  Add  the 
salt  and  pepper  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  longer,  then 
strain  and  serve  very  hot. 

Turtle  Soup. — After  turtle  is  cleaned,  place  in  kettle 
with   plenty  of  water  and  boil  tender.     Remove  from  the 

13 


water  and  pick  meat  from  the  bones.  To  the  broth  add 
six  potatoes  cut  in  dice,  cook  until  soft,  then  add  the  tur- 
tle. Let  this  boil  one-half  hour  and  add  thickening  of  two 
tablespoonfuls  flour  in  cup  of  water  and  lump  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Just  before  serving  add  four  hard  boiled 
eggs  chopped  fine,  a  half  of  a  lemon,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  ground  cloves.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. — Mrs.  John  D. 
Lippy. 

Croutons. — Cut  bread  about  half  an  inch  square  and 
toast  quite  brown  and  serve  with  soups. 

Soup  Stock. — Place  a  large  beef  shank  (with  bone  well 
cracked)  in  two  gallons  of  cold  water.  Add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  boil  all  day,  skimming  carefully  just 
before  it  begins  to  boil.  Strain  and  cool.  In  the  morning 
skim  off  the  fat,  and  turn  into  a  soup  kettle  without  the 
sediment.  It  is  then  ready  for  any  kind  of  soup-. — Mrs.  F. 
R.  Fulton,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Mock  Bisque. — Use  one-half  can  of  tomatoes,  one 
quart  of  milk,  one-third  cup  of  butter  and  two  level  tea- 
spoons of  cornstarch.  Heat  the  milk  and  tomato  separate- 
ly. Rub  the  tomato  through  a  strainer  and  then  put  back 
on  the  stove  to  keep  it  hot.  Take  one  rounding  table- 
spoon from  the  one-third  cup  of  butter  and  let  it  get  hot 
in  a  saucepan.  Add  all  the  cornstarch  at  once,  stir  and 
cook  until  smooth.  Then  add  the  hot  milk  slowly,  almost 
drop  by  drop.  When  all  is  in  add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
then  turn  in  the  hot  tomato  and  also  the  remainder  of  ths 
butter.  Stir  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  If  the  tomatoes  are 
not  very  acid  the  soup  will  not  curdle,  although  many 
cooks  think  it  necessary  to  add  a  pinch  of  soda.  This  soup 
is  served  with  croutons  or  bread  cut  in  dice  and  fried  in 
lard. 

Tomato  Soup. — Place  one  pint  of  tomatoes,  one  pint 
of  water,  one-fourth  of  a  small  onion,  and  a  little  parsley, 
over  the  fire.  Cover  closely  and  stew  gently  for  an  hour. 
Then  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Lift  out  onion  and 
parsley,  and  pulp  the  tomato  through.  Rub  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  one  of  butter  together.  Return  the 
soup  to  the  fire,  and  when  hat  add  thickening.     Cook  three 

14 


minutes.    Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S. 
F.  Tholan,  Ambler,  Pa. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup. —  Place  one  and  one-half  quarts  of 
sweet  milk  over  the  fire  to  boil.  When  the  milk  boils,  add 
one  tablespoonful  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  one  quart  of  tomatoes 
stewed  and  strained.  Also  add  one  small  teaspoonful  of 
soda.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Potato  Soup. — Three  potatoes,  one  quart  milk,  two 
slieed  onions,  three  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls flour,  cue  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  celery  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  pepper,  few 
grains  cayenne,  one  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley.  Cook 
potatoes  in  boiling  salted  water.  When  soft  rub  through 
strainer.  Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion,  and  add 
milk  slowly  to  potatoes.  .Melt  half  the  butter;  add  dry 
ingredients,  stir  until  well  mixed,  then  stir  into  boiling 
soiq).  Cook  one  minute,  strain,  add  remaining  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  parsley. 

Pea  Soup. — Soak  one-half  pint  dried  peas  in  water  over 
night.  Cut  in  small  blocks  two  potatoes  and  one  onion. 
Teas  will  require  from  three  to  three  and  one-half  hours  to 
cook.  Use  piece  of  boiling  beef  or  soup  stock. — Mrs.  H. 
C.  Roehner,  Hoagland,  [nd. 

Clam  Soup. — Twleve  clams  cut  fine,  one  quart  water, 
three  potatoes  diced,  two  hard  boiled  eggs.  Boil  potatoes 
and  clams  until  potatoes  are  soft.  Then  add  one  pint  rich 
milk  or  cream.  Then  add  butter  or  cream  balls.  Take 
butter  size  of  walnut,  work  in  flour  enough  to  make  a 
dough.  Then  make  balls  size  of  a  bean.  Add  then  the 
eggs  beaten  light.  Then  salt,  butter  and  pepper  to  suit  the 
taste. — Miss   Emma  Senseman,   New  Kingston.  Pa. 

Noodles  for  Soup. — Take  a  large  cupful  of  flour,  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  an  egg.  Mix  these  together  thoroughly, 
roll  very  thin  (adding  more  flour,  if  necessary,  while  rolling 
to  keep  from  sticking).  Roll  the  dough  together  in  a  tight 
roll;  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  very   tine,      rut  these  into 

15 


soup  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes.    Add  seasoning  to  taste.— 
Mrs.  S.  Frankforter,  Hampstead,  Md. 

Chicken  Corn  Soup. — Cut  one  chicken  in  joints  and 
boil  very  soft  in  four  quarts  of  water.  When  soft,  pick 
meat  from  bones  and  chop  rather  fine.  Add  to  broth,  and 
then  add  two  cans  fine  cut  corn,  or  the  corn  from  ten  ears. 
Boil  a  few  minutes,  then  thicken  with  one  egg,  rubbed  into 
as  much  flour  as  it  will  absorb.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  boil  three  minutes  longer.  Add  more  water  if  too 
thick  and  rich. —  Mrs.  G.  F.  Ritchey,  New  Kingston,  Pa. 

Bean  Soup. —  Boil  beans,  put  through  colander,  and  add 
to  beef  broth  and  boil  few  minutes. 

Tomato  Soup. — (  )ne  quart  tomatoes,  one  quart  water, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg 
and  let  boil  well,  then  add  three  pints  sweet  cream;  let 
come  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  teaspoon  of  soda.  Serve  with 
crackers. — Mrs.  G.   M.  W'ertz. 

Alphabet  Soup. — ( )ne  teaspoonful  Armour's  Extract  of 
Beef,  one  quart  water,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  but- 
ter, one-half  bay  leaf,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  chopped  onion,  one  teaspoonful  hour,  one-eighth 
teaspoonful  paprika,  two  tablespoonfuls  alphabets. 

Dissolve  Extract  of  Beef  in  w^ater ;  add  onion  and  bay 
leaf.  Cook  ten  minutes.  Then  add  butter  and  flour  mixed 
together,  stirring  constantly.  Let  boil,  strain,  add  alpha- 
bets. Cook  twenty  minutes.  Season  and  serve. — Armour's 
Culinary  Wrinkles. 

Brown  Soup  Stock.— Three  quarts  beef  broth,  one-half 
teaspoon ful  pepper,  two  sprigs  parsley,  four  cloves,  one- 
half  bay  leaf,  one  tablespoonful  saft,  two  tablespoonfuls 
butter,  one-half  cup  each  of  carrots,  turnips,  onions  and 
celery,  cut  in  dices. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  onion  and  brown;  then  add 
the  vegetables  and  seasonings  to"  cold  water;  cover  and 
cook  slowly  one  hour;  strain  carefully  and  while  hot  add 
the    beef   broth,    stirring   until    it    is    thoroughly    dissolved. 

1 6 


Add  more  salt  and  pepper,  if  necessary.  Cool  as  quickly 
as  possible.  This  stock  is  used  for  a  number  of  soups  and 
should  be  made  in  considerable  quantities  and  kept  in  a 
cool  place  until  it  is  all  used.— Armour's  Culinary  Wrin- 
kles. 


'/ 


Memorandum 


18 


Poultry  and  Game 


To  Prepare  a  Fowl. — Wash  the  fowl  thoroughly  inside 
and  out,  to  remove  the  oil,  to  which  the  dirt  will  adhere. 
Singe  and  put  the  bulk  of  the  stuffing  in  the  neck,  after  the 
crop  has  been  removed.  Truss  the  bird  by  pinning  the 
wings  closely  with  skewer,  then  tie  the  legs  closely  to  the 
body  with  stout  twine,  and  bind  down  the  neck  upon  the 
back.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  strips  of  fat 
salt  pork  over  the  breast.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  two  hours, 
basting  every  fifteen  minutes. — Lutheran  Observer. 

Roast  Chicken. — Clean  well  and  wipe  dry  inside  of 
fowl.  Make  filling  as  follows :  Pour  over  stale  bread 
enough  milk  to  moisten  well,  add  two  eggs,  beaten  light, 
small  lump  of  butter,  a  little  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Fill  chicken  and  bake,  basting  often  with  the  water  from 
the  pan.  Boil  together  the  heart,  liver  and  gizzard  until 
tender.  Chop  very  fine,  put  back  in  the  water  they  were 
boiling  in,  pour  into  pan  after  chicken  is  removed,  thicken 
with  a  little  flour,  salt  ami  pepper  to  taste. 

Chicken  Mince. — Place  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  one  of  flour  in  the  pan  :  when  thoroughly  absorbed  and 
smooth  add  one  cupful  milk.  When  hot  add  two  cupfuls 
of  cold  cooked  chicken  that  has  been  cut  into  dice  and 
stir  well  ;  when  quite  hot  add  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  at 
the  last  moment  a  dust  of  pepper. 

Baked  Chicken. —  Have  the  fowl  prepared  the  after- 
noon before.  Prepare  a  dressing  as  follows:  One  pint  of 
corn  meal,  two  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  sour  milk, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda:  mix  well  and  steam  or  bake 
in  oven.  When  done,  soften  with  a  little  water.  Add 
chopped  onion  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stuff  uncooked  chick- 
en and  steam  in  cooker  till  done,  then  brown  in  hot  oven. 

Chicken  Timbales. — (  me  pint  cold  chopped  chicken — 

19 


white  meat  preferred — one  cupful  grated  bread  crumbs,  one 
cupful  milk,  lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Boil  together  the  bread 
crumbs  and  milk  until  they  thicken,  then  add  gradually 
the  chicken,  butter  and  seasoning.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  when  cold  and  just  before  serving  add  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  1  Witter  well  some  timbale  cups — any  ordi- 
nary baking  cups  will  answer — pour  in  the  mixture,  filling 
cups  about  two-thirds  full,  and  place  in  a  pan  containing 
boiling  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  over  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes.  When  done  turn  out  on  a  platter  and 
pour  around  them  the  cream   sauce. — Lutheran   Observer. 

Chicken  Pudding. — Cut  up  the  chickens  and  stew  until 
tender,  then  take  them  from  the  gravy,  and  put  on  a  dish, 
and  season  them  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Make  a 
batter  of  one  quart  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one-half 
cup  of  melted  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  a  pinch  of  salt:  grease  a  pudding  pan  and  put  a 
layer  of  the  chicken  at  the  bottom,  then  some  of  the  batter 
over  it.  Do  this  until  the  dish  is  full.  Have  the  top  layer 
batter.  Bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. — Mrs.  C.  V. 
Hyson,  Hampstead,  Md. 

Creamed  Chicken. — Two  cupfuls  chopped  cooked 
chicken,  one  cupful  chicken  dressing,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour.  Sea- 
son to  taste  and  serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  Ellen  Ruthrauf. 

Scalloped  Chicken. — Mince  cold  chicken  very  tine; 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  parsley  and  a  little  melted  butter; 
moisten  with  cream;  cover  with  bread  crumbs;  make  into 
little  balls  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  hot  lard  and  but- 
ter. 

Chicken  Brown  Stew. — Cut  up  a  chicken  as  for  frying. 
Tut  in  a  baking  pan  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dust 
over  with  Hour.  Cut  up  pieces  of  butter  and  lav  over  the 
chicken.  Then  pour  over  a  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Put  in  a 
hot  oven  and  brown  quickly.  Turn  the  pieces  so  they 
will  brown  all  over. 

Chicken  Filets  with  Almond  Sauce.— Remove  the  filets 
from  a  raw  chicken  ;  there  are  four,  two  on  each  side  of  the 

20 


breast  bone.  Heat  three  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  in  the 
chafing  dish.  Season  the  filets  with  salt  and  cook  until 
brown  in  the  hot  oil.  Remove  them  and  blend  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  with  the  oil  that  remains  in  the  pan. 
Then  slowly  add  one  cupful  of  cream.  Cook  three  min- 
utes and  add  one-half  cupful  of  blanched  almonds,  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Reheat  the  filets  in  this  and  serve  at  once. 
This  recipe  was  selected  as  the  best  of  thousands  recently 
submitted  in   a  chafing  dish  competition. — Editor. 

Smothered  Chicken.— Cut  up  chicken  as  for  fricassee. 
Wash  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  for  some  few  minutes. 
Drain,  season,  dredge  with  flour,  and  put  in  pan  not  quite 
covered  with  water.  To  one  chicken  one-half  cup  butter 
is  cut  in  lumps  and  put  over  top.  Cover  closely  and  bake 
until  tender.  When  done,  take  from  pan  and  make  gravy. 
T  can  state  no  definite  time  for  cooking  as  that  is  governed 
largely  by  age  of  chicken.  But  to  try  with  a  fork  is  always 
a  safe  way. 

Oyster  Stuffing  for  Turkey. — (  me  quart  of  oysters,  one 
loaf  of  stale  bread  (baker's  bread  the  best),  four  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  each  of 
salt  and  pepper.  The  crusts  should  be  removed  and  mois- 
tened with  hot  water,  the  surplus  moisture  poured  off  as 
soon  as  the  crusts  are  soft.  Chop  the  remainder  of  the 
loaf,  add  the  melted  butter  and  seasoning.  Drain  off  the 
liquor  from  the  oysters,  boil  it,  skim  and  pour  over  the 
bread  crumbs  and  soaked  crusts.  Beat  in  the  three  eggs, 
mix  all  well  together,  with  the  hands,  and  if  rather  dry 
add  a  little  sweet  milk.  Put  in  a  spoonful  or  two  of  stuff- 
ing, then  three  or  four  oysters — being  careful  not  to  break 
them.  Continue  adding  stuffing  and  oysters  till  the  turkey 
is  filled.     This  is  Mrs.  Henry   Ward   Beecher's  recipe. 

How  to  Broil  and  Roast  Birds. — The  directions  for 
broiling  are  the  same  for  small  birds.  Hear  in  mind,  how- 
ever, that  for  the  extremely  small  ones  a  very  hot,  bright 
fire  is  needed,  as  the  birds  should  be  only  browned;  conse- 
quently the  time  required  for  broiling  them  is  very  brief. 
Singe  and  wipe-  the  birds,  then  splil  down  the  middle  of 
the    back,    remove    the    contents,    pound    the    birds    lightly. 

21 


to  flatten  the  breastbone,  and  wipe  thoroughly  with  a  damp 
clean  towel,  taking  care  that  everything  is  removed  and 
the  birds  left  perfectly  clean  for  cooking.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  rub  thickly  with  soft  butter  and  dredge 
with  flour.  For  squabs  or  quail  about  ten  minutes  are  re- 
quired for  broiling.     Smaller  birds  require  less  time. 

To  roast  birds,  draw  and  wash  quickly,  wipe  dry,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pin  a  thin  slice  of  pork  on 
the  breasts;  put  the  birds  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  hot  oven, 
and  bake  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Partridges  require 
forty  minutes.  Serve  on  toast,  with  currant  jelly  and  with 
bread  sauce,  which  is  made  in  the  following  way :  One 
pint  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoonful  of 
white  pepper,  two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  coarse  bread  crumbs 
and  another  tablespoonful  of  butter. — Lutheran  Observer. 
Boned  Chicken. — Boil  a  chicken  in  little  water  as  pos- 
sible until  meat  will  fall  from  bones,  remove  all  skin,  chop 
together  light  and  dark  parts  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Boil  down  liquid  in  which  chicken  was  boiled,  then  pour 
it  on  meat;  place  in  tin,  wrap  tightly  in  cloth,  press  with 
heavy  weight  several  hours.  Serve  cold,  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Chicken  Pot-pie. — Two  large  chickens  disjointed  and 
boiled  in  two  quarts  water ;  add  a  few  slices  salt  pork ; 
season.  When  nearly  cooked,  add  crust  made  of  one  quart 
flour,  four  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  saltspoon 
salt;  stir  in  stiff  batter  with  water;  drop  into  kettle  while 
boiling,  cover  close  and  cook  twenty-five  minutes. 

Chicken  Pot-pie. —  Disjoint  two  fowls  and  cook  in  two 
quarts  water  till  very  tender.  Slip  out  bones  and  season. 
Line  sides  of  clean  kettle  with  rich  biscuit  crust.  Add 
chicken  and  thickened  liquor.  Stand  on  moderately  hot 
fire.  Build  fire  of  dry  cobs  or  small  sticks  around  kettle, 
and  keep  burning  till  crust  is  well  browned.  Put  chicken 
on  platter  and  lay  crust  on  it.— Old  Fashioned  Recipe. 

Make  thick  dumpling  batter.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
thickened  boiling  liquor,  cover  closely  for  twenty  minutes. 
— Xew  receipe. 

22 


Fish  and  Oysters 


Baked  Shad. — Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  a  lit- 
tle chopped  onion,  two  eggs,  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  one 
tablespoon  butter.  Put  in  the  fish  and  tie  securely  with 
cord.  Bake  it  in  a  pan  with  hot  water,  and  baste  it  often. 
A  slice  of  fat  pork  laid  over  the  top  greatly  improves  it. 

Salmon  Balls. — One  can  salmon,  one  cup  milk,  one 
egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  cracker  crumbs  enough  to 
thicken.  Form  into  flat  round  cakes.  Frv  in  butter. — 
Mrs.   I).   P.  McLaurin. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — Drain  oysters.  Butter  a  baking 
dish,  and  cover  thinly  with  finely  chopped  celery  and  bits 
of  butter.  Put  oysters  in  layers  with  butter  and  seasoning 
alternating  with  cracker  crumbs.  When  dish  is  filled  add 
strained  oyster  liquor  and  sufficient  milk  to  moisten.  Cover 
with  crumbs.  Add  butter  in  bits.  Bake  until  a  light 
brown. —  Mrs.  1.  E.  Greenwood,  Carlisle.  Pa. 

Oysters  on  Toast. — Toast  stale  bread,  butter  well, 
cover  with  raw  oysters,  season  with  salt,  red  and  black 
pepper,  put  bits  of  butter  between  the  oysters,  set  in  a  hot 
oven  and  heat  until  the  oysters  begin  to  curl.  Serve  at 
once  on  a  hot  plate. 

Salmon  Loaf. — One  can  salmon  minced  fine,  two  cups 
bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
salt  and  pepper,  a  little  milk.  Steam  one  hour. — Mrs.  Har- 
lan  K.  Fenner,  Louisville,   Ky. 

Oyster  Pie. — (  )ne  quart  oysters,  drained.  To  the 
broth  add  two  medium  sized  potatoes  cut  in  dice,  pepper, 
salt  and  butter  to  taste.  When  potatoes  are  almost  soft, 
add  the  oysters,  and  one  cup  milk.  Take  from  fire,  butter 
a  baking  dish,  and  line  sides  with  paste  made  as  follows: 
One  quart  Hour,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one 
Of   salt,   and    sift    three   times.      Then    add   butter   size   of   a 

23 


walnut  and  work  thoroughly  with  the  hand.  Moisten  with 
sweet  milk  or  water.  Fill  the  dish  with  the  oysters  and 
potatoes  and  cover  with  remainder  of  paste.  Cut  hole  in 
renter  of  top,  to  let  out  steam.  Bake  a  delicate  brown. — 
Mrs.  G.   F.   Ritchey,  New  Kingston,  Pa. 

Ralston  Escalloped  Oysters. — Four  cups  milk,  one  cup 
Ralston,  three  eggs,  one-third  cup  butter,  one  quart  oys- 
ters, salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  your  grocer  is  not  sup- 
plied with  Ralston  Purina  Foods,  advise  Purina  Mills,  St. 
Louis,  Mo.  Into  the"  boiling  milk  stir  Ralston  Health 
Food;  cook  ten  minutes.  Add  butter,  yolks  of  eggs,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Take  from  stove  and  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Put  in  a  greased  baking  dish  alternating 
Health  Food  and  oysters.     Bake  30  minutes. 

Rakton  Escalloped  Salmon. — Three  cups  water,  one- 
half  cup  Ralston  Food,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs, 
one-half  can  salmon.  If  your  grocer  is  not  supplied  with 
Ralston  Purina  Foods,  advise  Purina  Mills,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
Cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Have  water  boiling; 
then  stir  in  Ralston  Health  Food.  Boil  ten  minutes  ;  add 
butter,  yolks  of  eggs,  pepper  and  salt ;  fold  in  carefully  the 
whites  of  eggs.  Put  a  layer  of  Ralston,  then  of  salmon  in 
a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Oysters  Roasted  in  the  Shell. — Wash  and  scrub  the 
shells.  Cook  in  hot  oven,  on  top  of  stove,  over  red  hot 
coals,  or  in  steamer  until  shells  open.  Always  place  them 
round  shell  down  to  retain  juice.  Serve  melted  butter  and 
vinegar  or  lemons  with  them. 

Panned  Oysters. — Pick  over  the  opened  oysters  to  re- 
move bits  of  shell.  Wash  quickly  in  cold  water  and  drain 
on  sieve.  Put  into  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon  butter  for 
twenty-five  oysters  ami  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper.  Cover 
and  shake  over  a  hot  fire  until  edges  ruffle  and  oysters  are 
plump.     May  be  served  on  toast. 

Stewed  Oysters. — Pick  over  and  wash  one  quart  oys- 
ters. Scald  one  pint  milk.  Strain,  boil,  and  skim  oyster 
liquor;  when  clear  add  oysters.  Cook  till  oysters  are 
plump  and  well  ruffled;  take  from  fire,  add  hot  milk,  salt, 
and  pepper, 

24 


If  desired  thieker  rub  together  one  tablespoon  each  of 
butter  and  flour;  add  to  milk  and  stir  until  smooth.  This 
niav  be  varied  by  additions  of  a  little  chopped  celery  or 
onion. 

Oyster  Pates. — One  quart  oysters,  minced  hue  with  a 
sharp  knife  ;  one  cup  rich  drawn  butter  based  upon  milk  ; 
cayenne  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  minced  oysters  in 
drawn  butter  and  cook  five  minutes.  Have  ready  some 
shapes  of  pastry,  baked  in  pate  pans,  then  slipped  out.  Fill 
these  with  the  mixture;  set  in  oven  two  minutes  to  heat, 
and   send  to  table. 

Oyster  Pie. — One  quart  oysters,  drained  ;  pepper,  salt, 
and  butter  to  taste.  One  quart  Hour,  two  tablespoons  lard, 
one  tablespoon  salt,  mix  with  water  for  the  pie  crust.  But- 
ter plate,  then  line  pie  plate  with  crust  ;  fill  with  oysters, 
seasoned;  put  over  a  crust  and  bake. 

To  Boil  Lobsters  or  Crabs. — The  lobster  is  in  good 
season  from  April  to  December,  and  should  be  purchased 
alive  and  plunged  into  boiling  wrater  in  which  a  good  pro- 
portion of  salt  has  been  mixed.  Continue  to  boil  accord- 
ing to  size  about  twenty  minutes.  Crabs  should  be  boiled 
in  the  same  manner,  but  a  little  more  than  half  the  time  is 
necessary. 

Deviled  Crabs. — (  hie  cup  crab  meat,  picked  from  shells 
oi  well-boiled  crabs,  two  tablespoons  hue  bread  crumbs  or 
rolled  cracker,  yolks  two  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped,  juice 
of  a  lemon,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  a  little  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt,  one  cup  good  drawn  butter.  Mix  one 
spoon  crumbs  with  chopped  crab  meat,  yolks,  seasoning, 
drawn  butter.  Fill  scallop  shells — large  clam  shells  will  do 
— or  small  pate  pans — with  the  mixture;  sift  crumbs  over 
top,  heat  to  slight  browning  in  quick  oven. 


25 


Memorand  urn 


26 


Vegetables 


Mashed  Potatoes. — The  secret  of  making  good  mashed 
potatoes  is  to  keep  them  hot  while  mashing,  and  to  have 
the  milk  very  hot  when  it  is  added. 

Creamed  Potatoes. — Cut  raw  potatoes  into  dice  and 
boil  in  salt  water  until  done.  Drain  water  oft*.  Put  over 
potatoes  one  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  table- 
spoon flour  dissolved  in  little  milk,  put  in  a  little  parsley. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. — Pare  and  cut  lengthwise  into 
eights,  soak  fifteen  minutes  in  cold  water;  drain,  plunge 
into  deep  fat  and  fry  until  brown.     Salt  and  serve  hot. 

Saratogo  Chips. — Slice  raw  potatoes  very  thin  ;  soak 
in  cold  water,  then  plunge  into  boiling  water  two  minutes. 
Drain  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. — Butter  pudding  pan,  cut  potatoes 
into  thin  slices.  Place  in  pan  layer  potatoes,  small  piece 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Repeat  process  until  desired  quan- 
tity is  had.  Add  layer  crackers  broken  in  small  pieces, 
cover  with  milk,  and  put  in  oven  until  baked. — Mrs.  H.  C. 
Roehner. 

Ralston  Cheese  Souffle. — One-fourth  cup  Ralston 
Health  Food,  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  grated  cheese,  one 
cup  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one-third  teaspoon  mus- 
tard. Cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  If  your  grocer  is 
not  supplied  with  Ralston  Purina  Foods,  advise  Purina 
Mills,  St.  Louis,  Mo.  Cook  Ralston  and  milk  five  min- 
utes. Add  butter,  yolk  of  eggs,  mustard,  salt,  cavenne  and 
cheese.  Then  fold  in  carefully  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Pour  in  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fif- 
teen minutes. 

Cold  Slaw. — Take  one  head  of  cabbage  cut  fine,  and 
three  hard  boiled   eggs.      Sprinkle  salt   ami   sugar  over  the 

27 


cabbage.  Let  stand.  Then  press  out.  Rub  one  yolk  to  a 
smooth  paste,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream  and 
a  little  sugar  beat  until  very  light.  Then  add  a  little  vine- 
gar, pour  over  the  cabbage,  and  grate  the  eggs  over  the 
top. 

Hot  Slaw. — Cut  a  hard,  white  head  of  cabbage  into  two 
pieces.  Shave  one  piece  as  fine  as  possible  and  put  it  into 
a  stew  pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg,  I 
small  teaspoon  salt,  and  nearly  as  much  pepper.  Add  one- 
half  teacupful  water  and  one  teacupful  vinegar.  Cover  the 
stew  pan  and  cook  the  cabbage  until  it  is  tender,  stiring 
il   often  while  cooking. 

Creamed  Corn. — Cook  fresh  sweet  corn  which  has 
been  cut  from  the  cob  (about  a  pint)  in  enough  water  to 
prevent  burning,  until  tender;  season  with  salt  and  plenty 
butter,  and  one  cupful  of  sweet  cream. — Lutheran  Ob- 
server. 

Escalloped  Corn. — Cut  fresh  picked  corn  from  the  cob 
and  fill  a  greased  pudding  dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
corn  and  cracker  crumbs,  with  bits  of  butter  and  salt  be- 
tween each  layer,  and  a  little  rich  milk.  Be  sure  to  have  it 
well  moistened  and  cracker  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  one  hour 
well   covered. — Lutheran    Observer. 

Baked  Corn. — This  is  one  of  the  best  dishes  made  from 
corn,  and  is  often  served  cold  at  picnics.  Cut  the  corn 
off  from  the  cob  with  a  sharp  knife  ;  allow  a  quart  of  milk, 
three  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  to  every  pint 
of  corn,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in  a  greased 
pudding  dish  about  an  hour  slowly.  The  oven  should  be 
only  moderately  heated,  so  that  it  will  not  scorch.  Stir  oc- 
casionally at  first,  but  after  it  thickens  let  it  brown. — 
Lutheran  (  )bserver. 

Corn  Oysters. — To  one  quart  of  grated  corn,  add  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  four  grated  crackers,  sifted;  with  a  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  Royal  Baking  Powder;  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Drop  by  the  tablespoonful  in 
ho1   lard,  and   fry   a   rich  brown. 

Corn  Pudding. — Six  ears  of  corn.  Grate  three  and  cut 
three  off  with    knife,  cutting  twice   through   grain.     Three 

"28 


eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put 
bits  of  butter  over  top  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Miss  Lizzie 
Richwine,  Allen,  Pa. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Take  one-half  can  of  tomatoes, 
stew  until  perfectly  smooth.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Dissolve  a  tablespoon ful  of  Hour  in  a 
little  water,  and  stir  into  tomatoes.  Then  let  boil  a  little 
and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Fried  Tomatoes. — Cut  tomatoes  in  slices,  dip  into  hour, 
sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  them  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or 
butter  until  brown.  Lift  out  the  tomatoes,  put  a  little  flour 
in  pan  and  milk  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  serve  hot. 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes. — Cook  one  pound  of  maca- 
roni twenty  minutes,  then  add  three  large  tomatoes,  cut 
fine,  and  cook  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer,  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  cream,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste;  then  cook  five  minutes  more  before  taking  it  up. 
— L.  K.  Ridgley,  Hampstead,  Md. 

Baked  Beans. — Pick  one  quart  of  beans  free  from 
stones  and  dirt.  Wash  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water. 
In  the  morning  pour  off  the  water.  Cover  with  hot  water, 
and  boil  until  the)-  begin  to  split  open.  The  time  depends 
upon  the  age  of  the  bean;  but  it  will  be  from  thirty  to 
fifty  minutes.  Turn  them  into  a  colander  and  pour  over 
them  two  or  three  quarts  of  water.  Put  the  beans  in  a 
dee])  earthen  pot;  place  pork  on  to])  only;  cover  it.  AI ix 
one  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  one  tablespoonful  of  mo- 
lasses, with  a  little  water.  Pour  this  over  the  beans,  and 
then  add  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover.  Bake  slowly 
six  hours;  add  a  little  water  occasionally. 

Succotash. — Cut  a  pint  of  sweet  corn  from  the  cob. 
and  cook  in  as  little  water  as  possible  without  burning. 
Cook  one  pint  of  nice  shell-beans;  drain  and  add  to  the 
corn  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  cup  full  of 
milk  and  cream  mixed  together;  season  with  salt.  Serve 
in   individual   vegetable   dishes. —  Lutheran   (  )bserver. 

Fried  Egg  Plant.— Slice,  then  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
them  and   let   stand   for  half  hour.      'I 'hen   drain    water   from 

29 


it,  dip  in  egg,  then  into  cracker  dust  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Scas«»n  with  a  little  pepper  while  frying. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. — Quarter  of  a  pound  of  maca- 
roni; put  it  in  three  pints  of  boiling  water;  cook  twenty 
minutes,  then  drain,  put  a  layer  of  cheese  grated  in  a 
greased  pan,  then  a  layer  of  macaroni  and  pieces  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs;  put 
bits  of  butter  over  it,  and  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  some 
grated  cheese  and  brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  C.  Y.  Hyson. 

Tomatoes  Baked  Whole. — Select  sound,  ripe  tomatoes, 
cut  round  hole  in  stem  side  of  each  and  stuff  with  bread 
crumbs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  cover  bottom  of  pan  with 
tomatoes,  open  side  up;  put  in  a  very  little  water,  dredge 
with  Hour  and  bake  brown.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Wee- 
ter. 

Fried  Potatoes. — Pare  raw  potatoes  ;  cut  thin  as  wafers 
with  sharp  knife  or  patent  sheer.  Soak  twenty  minutes  in 
cold  water;  dry  on  towel.  Throw  a  handful  at  a  time  in 
kettle  of  smoking  hot  fat;  skim  out  fast  as  browned  and 
drain  on  r.nglazed  paper.     Sprinkle  with  salt. 

Fried  Potatoes,  2. — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  thick 
slices,  season  and  saute  in  a  little  hot  fat  in  a  frying  pan. 

Mashed  Potatoes. — Boil  potatoes  in  salted  water ; 
while  hot  put  through  ricer  or  mash  with  fork  till  smooth. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper;  to  one  pint  add  one  table- 
spoon butter  and  two  tablespoons  hot  milk.  Beat  till  light, 
hea])  in  hot  dish. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Scrub  potatoes  of  same  size.  Bake 
in  very  hot  oven  until  tender.  Press  till  skin  breaks  slight- 
ly, serve  hot  with  butter. 

Potato  Croquettes. — Mix  together  one  pint  hot  mashed, 
potato,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-third  teaspoon  pepper,  one 
teaspoon  onion  juice,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley,  yolks  two  beaten  eggs.  Stir  over  fire  till 
mixture  leaves  sides  of  saucepan.  When  cool,  shape  into 
croquettes,  clip  each  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry 
brown  in  deep  kettle  of  smoking  hot  fat. 

30 


Dried  Sweet  Corn.— Soak  one  pint  overnight.  Drain, 
add  fresh  cold  water  and  cook  slowly.  When  tender  drain, 
add  one-half  cup  rich  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  simmer  ten  minutes. 


.•;' 


Salads  andlDressings 


Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Yolks  five  hard  boiled  eggs, 
mash  smooth,  then  add  salt,  pepper,  mustard  to  taste.  Pour 
salad  oil  in  slowlv  and  beat  well.  Add  juice  of  one  lemon. 
—Mrs.  J.  W.  Weeter. 

Fruit  Salad. — One  scant  quart  of  chopped  celery,  one 
cup  of  drained  pineapple  chopped,  one  cup  of  drained 
oranges  chopped,  three  large  tart  apples  chopped,  one  cup 
of  finely  cut  mixed  nuts.  One  hour  before  serving  cover 
with  the  following  dressing: 

Dressing:  Beat  together  until  light  one-half  pint  of 
cream,  two  eggs,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  mustard  and  drop 
in  slowly  the  juice  of  two  medium  sized  lemons.  Place 
butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg  in  a  pan,  melt  and  pour 
the  foregoing  mixture  in  and  stir  constantly  over  a  slow 
fire. — E.  Bertha  Kunkle. 

Plain  French  Dressing. — Three  tablespoons  of  oil  to 
one  of  vinegar,  one  heaping  saltspoon  of  salt,  one  even 
saltspoon  of  pepper  mixed  with  a  little  cayenne. 

Potato  Salad. — Boil  six  potatoes,  cut  fine.  Cut  celery 
fine  and  two  hard  boiled  eggs.  Salt  and  pepper.  Dressing: 
One  cup  vinegar,  one  cup  water,  two  tablespoons  sugar. 
Boil.  One  teaspoon  mustard,  two  teaspoons  cornstarch; 
mix  into  a  little  of  the  vinegar  and  stir  in  slowly.  Beat- 
up  an  egg  and  add  also  a  little  butter.  Garnish  with  slices 
of  egg  and  celery  leaves. — Mrs.  Mae  Albright. 

Potato  Salad. — Five  boiled  potatoes,  three  hard  boiled 
eggs,  one  onion.  Salt,  pepper  and  celery  seed.  Dressing: 
One-half  pint  of  vinegar  boiled.  Add  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  good 
sized  lump  of  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Then  boil  all 
together,  and  pour  over  above  mixture. — Miss  Emma 
Senseman. 

32 


Salad  Dressing. — A  formula  for  a  cream  salad  dressing 
to  use  instead  of  mayonnaise  is  as  follows :  Rub  the  yolks 
of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  add  to 
them  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  salt,  one-eighth  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  and 
two  tablespoon fuls  of  vinegar.  Have  a  pint  of  rich  cream, 
very  cold,  and  beat  until  smooth  and  light.  Stir  this  a 
spoonful  at  a  time  into  the  egg  mixture. 

Mock  Pineapple  Salad. — Peel  three  large,  rather  sweet 
apples;  cut  into  thin  slices  and  with  a  small  round  cutter 
remove  the  core.  Cover  the  slices  of  the  apples  with  cold 
water  to  keep  them  from  discoloring.  Peel  four  medium- 
sized,  tart  oranges  ;  trim  off  the  white  pulp  and  slice  the 
oranges  across  the  grain,  same  thickness  as  the  apples.  Put 
slices  of  apples  and  orange  together;  arrange  these  in  pyra- 
mid form  on  a  glass  dish.  Reduce  some  thick  mayonnaise 
with  the  juices  that  drain  from  the  slices  of  orange  and 
pour  over  the  fruit  and  serve  at  once,  very  cold.  Let  the 
fruit  chill  before  the  mayonnaise  is  added. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Cook  a  Savoy  cabbage  in  boiling- 
water  until  tender,  drain  well  and  chop.  Make  a  dressing 
of  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  mashed  very  fine, 
three  tablespoons  of  thick  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  of 
made  mustard,  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt  and  two  table- 
spoons of  vinegar.  Peat  until  smooth  and  pour  over  the 
cabbage. 

Fruit  Salad. — Slice  three  bananas,  cut  into  small  pieces 
three  oranges,  a  bunch  or  two  of  white  Malaga  grapes 
picked  from  stems  and  cut  in  half,  and  one  apple  pared  and 
cut  in  dice.     Mix  all  together  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

A  Salad  Dressing. — A  fruit  salad  dressing  that  is  es- 
pecially good  for  any  combination  of  fruits  that  are  not 
too  tart  is  made  by  beating  together  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
until  lemon-colored  or  creamy.  Beat  in,  little  by  little,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar. 
Have  readv  the  strained  juice  of  two  lemons,  stir  in  at  last, 
and  serve  at  once.  This  goes  particularly  well  with  ba- 
nanas and  oranges. 

Cauliflower  Salad. — Poil  one  large  head  of  cauliflower 

33 


in  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  for 
one-half  hour.  Drain  and  when  cold  divide  into  small 
tufts.  Pour  cream  dressing  or  mayonnaise  dressing  over 
it   and  serve. 

Beef  Salad. — One  cup  beef,  chop  fine,  three  hard-boiled 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  oil,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  vinegar.  Set  in  a  cold 
place  until  ready  to  use. — Mrs.  A.  A.  Kelley,  Newville, 
Pa. 

Chicken  Salad. — The  white  meat  of  one  chicken  cut 
fine.  Celery  chopped  fine  to  the  same  amount  as  chicken. 
Mix  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over.  Dressing:  One  teaspoon 
salt,  one  teaspoon  of  pepper,  two  teaspoons  of  mustard, 
two  teaspoons  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  vinegar,  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Rub  the  yolks  with  a  fork,  to  a  powder. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  mustard  and  sugar.  Beat  one  raw  egg. 
Add  the  dressing  vinegar  last.  Pour  over  slowly  and  toss 
the  meat  lightly  with  a  fork.  Cut  white  of  eggs  in  rings 
and  lay  over  top.  Edge  the  dish  with  celery  leaves. — Miss 
Emma  Senseman. 

Tomato  Salad. — Take  six  medium  sized  tomatoes,  peel, 
slice,  salt,  pepper  and  sugar.  Let  stand.  Drain  off  the 
water.  Take  four  hard-boiled  eggs.  Rub  one  yolk  to  a 
smooth  paste,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream,  beat 
until  very  light ;  then  add  a  little  vinegar,  and  pour  over 
the  tomatoes.  Then  grate  the  eggs  over  the  top.  Serve 
immediately. — -Miss  Laura  Keller. 

Cream  Salad  for  Dressing. — Mix  one-half  tablespoon- 
ful of  mustard,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  the 
same  amount  of  salt,  with  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  ;  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and -three-quarters 
of  a  cup  of  cream ;  pour  slowly  on  to  this  mixture  one-quar- 
ter of  a  cup  of  vinegar.  Cook  the  dressing  in  a  double 
boiler  until  it  thickens  slightly,  stirring  constantly.  Strain 
and  cool. 

Nut  Salad. — For  a  nut  salad  use  equal  quantities  of 
crisp  celery  cut  in  inch  pieces  and  either  blanched  almonds 
or  English  walnuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  dressing  made  as  follows:     To  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 

34 


beaten  very  light  add  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard 
and  salt  and  beat  again.  Add  slowly,  continuing  to  beat, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  six  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar.  Cook  in  a  double  kettle  until  it  thickens 
and  is  cream>'.  Before  using,  and  when  perfectly  cold.,  add 
one  cupful  of  whipped  cream. 

Pineapple  and  Celery  Salad. — Peel  a  small  ripe  pine- 
apple cut  out  the  eyes  and  shred;  set  on  ice  until  thorough- 
ly chilled;  then  mix  with  a  cup  of  finely  chopped,  crisp 
white  celery,  and  a  sweet  red  pepper  cut  into  dice.  Sprin- 
kle over  this  a  little  French  dressing  and  let  stand  a  few- 
minutes.  Then  mix  with  mayonnaise  and  whipped  cream 
and  serve  with  garnish  of  lettuce  leaves  and  nut  meats. — 
Lutheran   (  )bserver. 

Sweet  Salad  Sauce. — Beat  yolks  of  four  eggs  until 
light  and  gradually  beat  in  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar;  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  until  sugar  is  dissolved, 
then  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  This  sauce  can  be  added 
to  the  salad  and  kept  on  ice  for  an  hour  before  serving. 

Celery  Salad. — Wash  and  scrape  two  bunches  of  celery 
and  cut  into  half-inch  lengths.  Lav  in  ice  water  for  an 
hour.  Make  a  dressing  of  one  tablespoonful  of  oil,  four 
tablespoons  of  vinegar,  one  level  teaspoon  of  sugar,  a  few 
dashes  i)\  pepper  and  one-third  level  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix 
celery  and  dressing  together  with  a  fork  and  serve  at  once. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. — One  egg,  one-half  cup  of 
cream,  one-half  teaspoonful  mustard,  salt,  sugar,  one-quar- 
ter cup  of  vinegar,  small  lump  of  butter.  Beat  whole  egg 
verv  light,  add  cream,  mustard,  sugar,  salt.  Have  vinegar 
boiling  hot,  stir  all  into  hot  vinegar  and  stir  all  the  time 
until  creamy  consistency. — Lutheran  Observer, 


35 


AVOID  BULK  SODA 


Bad  Soda  Spoils  Good  Flour. 

Pure  Soda-the  Best  Soda,  comes 
only  in  *P*,3KAGES 

Bearing  Trade  Mark  ?  ARM  and  HAMMER. 
It  costs  no  more  than  inferior  package  Soda 
—never  spoils  the  flour— always  keeps  soft. 
Beware  of  Imitation  trade  marks  and  labels, 
ife  and  INSIST  ON  PACKAGES 

bearing  these  words— 


SOLD  BY  GR0CER5  EVERYWHERE, 

Write  for  Arm  and  Hammei    tiooU  of  Valuable  Recipes-  FREE. 


36 


Bread,  Warm  Cakes,  Fritters 


Corn  Pone. — One  pint  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  three 
tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  two  parts  corn  meal  and  one 
part  wheat  flour,  make  as  thick  as  mush  and  bake  forty- 
five  minutes. — Mary  Garber,  Andersonburg,  Pa. 

Yeast  for  Bread. — One  handful  of  hops,  boil  in  two 
quarts  of  water,  strain  over  one  pint  of  grated  raw  pota- 
toes, one  small  cup  of  salt,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Then  add 
two  quarts  warm  water.  Stir  mixture.  Then  let  stand 
until  lukewarm.  Then  add  one  pint  of  yeast.  Let  stand 
covered  closely  until  light  and  foaming.  Then  put  in  jars, 
using-  one  pint  for  six  loaves  of  bread. — Mrs.  Win.  Givler, 
Allen,   Pa. 

Bread. — One  pint  of  boiled  potatoes,  mashed,  add 
water  to  make  six  pints  in  all.  Put  in  dough-tray  in  even- 
ing, adding  one  pint  of  the  prepared  yeast,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  lump  of  lard,  then  stir  in  flour  until  a  stiff  batter. 
Let  rise  until  morning.  Then  add  flour  and  knead  stiff. 
When  it  has  risen  partly  knead  again.  When  light  put  in 
pans.     Let  rise  until  light,  then  bake. — Airs.  Wm.  Givler. 

Buckwheat  Sweet  Bread. — You  will  need  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  shortening,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
egg.  one  teaenpful  of  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wheat  flour  and  one  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  buckwheat  flour.  Pour  into  a  small  drip- 
ping pan  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  This  should 
be  eaten  while  warm  with  butter  and  is  delicious. — Luth- 
eran (  observer. 

Graham  Muffins  with  Sour  Milk. — Beat  one  cup  of  rich 
sour  milk,  one-half  level  teaspoon  each  of  salt  ami  soda 
and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  Graham  flour.  Turn  into  hot 
greased  iron  pans  and  bake  quickly. 

37 


Muffins. — Three  eggs,  one  quart  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder, 
a  little  butter,  flour  to  make  a  nice  batter. 

Exposition  Muffins. — Three  cups  of  flour,  three  table- 
spoons sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoons 
Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  with 
sweet  milk,  and  one  tablespoon  of  butter  heated.  Beat 
hard.  The  dough  should  be  stiff  enough  to  drop  in  pans. 
—  Miss  Edith  Mae  Kapp,  New  Kingston,  Pa. 

Sally  Lunn. — One  pint  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal 
Baking  Powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  cup  of 
sugar.  Beat  two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately;  add  to 
yolks  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  stir  slowly  into  flour  and  add 
one-half  cup  melted  butter.  Stir  in  the  whites  last.  Bake 
in  muffin  pans. — Airs.  Chas.  Bernheisel. 

Pineapple  Muffins. — To  two  well-beaten  eggs  add 
gradually  one  teacup  milk  and  one-third  cup  melted  but- 
ter. Thicken  this  with  one  quart  flour  (sifted)  in  which 
has  been  mixed  three  tablespoons  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
a  heaping  teaspoonful  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  salt.  When 
thoroughly  beaten  add  one  cup  grated  pineapple  and  bake 
till  quite  done  (about  half  an  hour)  in  hot  greased  muffin 
rings.  Fill  the  rings  a  little  more  than  half  full.  Serve 
very  warm  and  they  will  be  excellent. — Mrs.  Elizabeth 
VVeeter. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — Pour  enough  boiling  water 
over  one-half  cup  of  corn  meal  to  scald  it.  Butter  size  of 
an  egg,  one-half  cup  good  molasses,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one 
heaping  teaspoon  soda,  one  scant  quart  of  Graham  flour. 
Bake  in  pound  baking  powder  cans  one  hour  and  fifteen 
minutes,  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  will  make  three  loaves. 
— Airs.  P.  1).  Altman,  Atchison,  Kansas. 

Potato  Buns. — One  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup 
ot  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  yeast,  one  tablespoon  of 
Hour.  Set  in  evening,  let  rise  until  morning,  then  add  half 
a  cup  of  lard,  knead  and  let  rise  until  light,  roll  out  and  cut 
into  cakes,  then  let  it  rise  again.  Bake  until  a  delicate 
brown.— Mrs.  Chas.  Bernheisel. 

Cream  Puffs. — Beat  four  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour,  four 

3§' 


cups  sweet  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  muffin  pans; 
serve  hot  with  sauce  made  as  follows  :  One  cup  of  sugar, 
one  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and 
beat  to  a  foam. 

Parker  House  Rolls. — Scald  one  pint  sweet  milk. 
When  cold  add  one  tablespoon  lard,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  yeast.  Add  sufficient  flour 
to  make  batter  and  let  stand  till  morning.  Then  stiffen 
and  let  rise  again.  Roll  out  till  one-half  inch  thick.  Cut 
in  rounds.  Spread  with  butter  and  double  together,  and  let 
rise  again.     Bake  fifteen  minutes  till  nicely  brown. 

French  Rolls. — In  to  a  pound  of  flour  rub  two  ounces 
of  butter  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs;  one  tablespoonful 
of  yeast,  a  little  salt  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  get  light.  Cut 
int<»  rolls,  dip  the  edges  into  melted  butter  to  keep  them 
from  .^ticking  together  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cream  Waffles. — One  pint  of  rich  cream  (sour).  Stir 
into  it  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Then  add  flour  enough  to 
make  a  rather  stiff  batter.  When  done  sift  sugar  over  them 
and  serve  hot. 

Waffles. — Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  four  cups 
flour,  two  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder,  milk  sufficient 
to  make  a  thin  batter.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately. 
Bake  in  waffle  iron. —  Airs.  W.  P.  Eckels,  New  Kingston, 
Pa. 

Waffles. — Two  beaten  eggs,  one  quart  light  flour,  one 
iron  tablespoon  melted  lard,  one  level  teaspoon  soda,  sour 
milk  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  thick  as  cream.  Do  not 
fill  iron  too  full.  The  iron  must  be  hot  and  well  greased. 
They  are  improved  very  much  by  dressing  them  with 
cream  and  sugar  as  soon  as  baked.— Mrs.  Geo.  B.  Hoover, 
Allen,  Pa. 

Aunt  Peggy's  Apple  Dumplings.— One  pint  of  flour. 
teaspoonful  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg.  a  pinch  of  salt,  water  or  milk  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  dough,  divide  the  dough  into  six  equal  parts,  roll  and 
fdl    with    apples    sliced    thick;    then    take    one-halt    cup    of 

39 


white  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter;  fill  the  cup  with  boil- 
ing  water,  and  pour  over  the  dumplings.  Bake  in  an  oven 
hot  enough  for  pie. — Mrs.  Wade  Crampton,  Hampstead, 
Md. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — The  shortcake  is  still  a  fav- 
orite dish.  But  the  modern  ones  are  served  very  accept- 
ably as  individual  cakes,  instead  of  a  large  one.  This  is 
the  recipe  used  in  the  Boston  Cooking  Schools:  Add  four 
teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  to  two  cupfuls  of  pastry  flour.  Sift  two  or 
three  times.  One-third  cupful  butter,  three-quarters  cup- 
ful milk.  Roll  the  dough  lightly.  Use  a  large  biscuit 
cutter.  Bake  ten  minutes,  hot  oven.  Halve  the  straw- 
berries, sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  heat  a  trifle.  Tear  the 
cakes  open,  butter,  place  strawberries  between  and  on  top. 
Whipped  cream  renders  it  more  attractive.  Serve  imme- 
diately.— Lutheran  Observer. 

Fruit  Shortcake. — One-half  quart  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  Pow- 
der, lump  of  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  one-half  pint  of 
milk.  Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  powder  together;  rub  in  the 
lard  cold.  Add  the  milk,  and  mix  to  a  smooth  dough,  just 
soft  enough  to  handle.  Divide  in  half,  roll  out,  spread  top 
of  under  layer  with  butter,  and  bake  until  a  light  brown. 
Separate  the  cakes  without  cutting  them.  Any  kind  of 
fruit  may  be  used.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. — Mrs. 
H.  D.  Shimer,  AVatsontown,  Pa. 

Rice  Gems. — To  one-half  cup  cold  boiled  rice  add  the 
well  beaten  yelks  of  three  eggs,  two  cups  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful salt,  three  cups  sifted  flour  and  one  tablespoonful 
melted  butter.  Beat  vigorously  until  batter  is  smooth. 
Now  add  carefully  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder 
and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  hot  gem  pans  in 
a  very  quick  oven. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Alleman,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Banana  Fritters. — Separate  two  eggs ;  to  the  yelks  two 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  two- 
thirds  cup  water,  one  pint  flour.  Stir  in  carefully  the 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  and  one  heaping 

40 


tcaspoonful  yeast   powder.     Cut  the  bananas   in   quarters, 
dip  in  the  batter  and  fry  in  smoking  fat. 

Corn  Fritters. — Two  cupfuls  of  sweet  corn  cut  from 
the  cob  (canned  corn  can  be  used  instead),  two  eggs,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  .milk,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
half  tcaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter; 
add  enough  flour  to  make  a  good  batter.  Drop  in  spoon- 
fuls in  hot  butter  and  fry  brown.  Serve  for  breakfast  or 
luncheon. — Lutheran  Observer. 


41 


Holds    America's    Highest    Prize 


BAKERS 

and  Chocolate 

Absolutely  pure,  with  a 
most  delicious  flavor,  made 
by  a  scientific  blending  of 
the  best  cocoa  beans  grown 
in  different  parts  of  the 
world.  It  is  backed  by  126 
years  of  successful  manu- 
facture and  by  46  highest 
^  awards  in  Europe  and 
p  America — an   unparalleled 


llegistered  U.  S.  Pat.  Office 


record  of  achievement. 


Be  sure   that  you  get  the  genuine  with    the   tradc=mark 
on  the  package. 

Directions  for  preparing  more  than  one  hundred  dainty 
dishes  in  our  Choice  Recipe  Book,  sent  free  on  request. 

Waiter    Baker   (Si  Co.  Ltd. 

Established  1780.      DORCHESTER.  MASS. 


Pies,  Puddings,  Ice  Creams,  Ices 
and  Desserts 


Orange  Custard. — Beat  yolks  three  eggs  until  light, 
add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange,  three-fourths  cup 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  Niagara  Corn  Starch,  mixed,  one- 
half  cup  water.  Use  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue. — Miss 
Elanore  Burr. 

Lemon  Fie. — One  lemon,  three  eggs,  one  cup  sour 
cream,  two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  cups  water,  one 
cup  flour. — Mrs.  W.   \Y.  Wonderly,  New   Kingston,  Pa. 

Lemon  Custard. — (  )ne  grated  lemon,  one  cup  sugar, 
four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  half 
cup  cracker  dust,  one  pint  sweet  milk.  Bake  twenty  min- 
utes. Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  four  tablespoons 
sugar  to  stiff  froth,  cover  the  pies  with  this  and  brown 
si  >wly. 

Lemon  Custard. — One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter, yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs,  one  cup  boiling  water,  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoon  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  cold  water;  stir  cornstarch  into  the  hot  water. 
Cook  until  clear,  then  add  the  butter  and  sugar.  AYhen 
creamy  push  back  on  range,  and  when  nearly  cold  add  the 
lemon  and  beaten  eggs.  Pill  this  in  a  rich  baked  crust  and 
cover  with  a  thick  meringue.  This  is  made  with  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  while  still  beating  add  three 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice. 
Spread  over  pie,  and  stand  in  a  slow  oxen  until  it  becomes 
firm.— Mrs.  M.  H.  Havice,  Milton,  Pa. 

Cccoanut  Custard. — Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  pint  of 
milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  boil  and  stir  in  cocoanut,  then 
pour  into  pie  plates  which  have  had  pastry  previously 
baked.     Beat  whites  of  eggs, 

43 


Mince  Pie. — Three  bowls  of  meat,  five  bowls  of  apples, 
one  bowl  of  molasses,  one  bowl  of  vinegar,  one  bowl  of 
cider,  one  bowl  of  suet  or  butter,  three  bowls  of  raisins, 
five  bowls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons -each  of  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  cloves;  one  tablespoon  each  of  salt  and  black  pep- 
per, the  rind  and  juice  of  three  lemons. — Mary  Garber, 
Andersonburg,  Pa. 

Lemon  Pie. — Four  cups  boiling  water,  two  cups  sugar, 
lump  butter  size  of  Qgg,  boil  together  for  twenty  minutes. 
The  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 
the  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  mix  all  together,  stir  in  the  water 
and  sugar  and  boil  three  minutes  longer;  pour  in  two  crusts 
previously  baked,  beat  whites  of  three  eggs,  spread  on  top 
and  brown. — Mrs.  William  Ed.  Brown,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 

Banana  Custard. — Bake  a  good  light  crust,  when  done 
slice  a  banana  into  the  crust  and  fill  with  cream  as  follows : 
2  cups  of  sweet  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one-third  cup  white 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  Mothers'  Corn  Starch.  Cook 
until  thick,  then  flavor  with  vanilla;  whip  the  white  of  egg 
until  stiff,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar ; 
spread  lightly  over  the  pie  and  set  in  oven  till  light  brown. 

Custard  Pie. — Three  tablespoonfuls  (not  too  full) 
granulated  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  in 
milk  sufficient  for  one  pie. 

Cocoanut  Pie. — Four  eggs,  one  pack  cocoanut,  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar,  one  tablespoon  cornstarch,  one  quart 
milk. 

Vanilla  Tarts. — One  egg,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  pint  cold  water.  Line  four 
plates  with  pie  crust  and  pour  the  above  mixture  into  them. 
Top  crust :  Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  lard,  one  cup 
thick  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  egg,  three  cups  flour, 
one-half  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Drop  this  on  top  by  spoon- 
fuls.— Mrs.  Geo.  B.  Hoover. 

Buttermilk  Pie. — Six  cups  of  buttermilk,  three  cups 
sugar,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoons  flour,  one  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  sal- 
eratus,  nutmeg  to  taste. — Mrs.  Ellen  Goodyear,  Allen,  Pa. 

Chocolate   Custard. — One  quart  milk,  three  eggs,  one 

44 


cup  'sugar,  three  tablespoons  Niagara  Corn  Starch,  three 
tablespoons  Walter  Baker's  chocolate.  Let  milk  come  to 
a  boil,  beat  cornstarch,  yolks  of  eggs  and  chocolate  to- 
gether, then  add  to  the  boiling  milk.  Keep  whites  of  eggs 
for  frosting. 

Frosting.— Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Spread  over  custard,  put 
in  oven  to  brown.  Crust  must  be  baked  first.  This  will 
make  two  pies. — Miss  Gertie  Fair. 

Peach  Pie. — Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  good  paste  and 
fill  with  canned  peaches  ;  scatter  on  as  much  sugar  as  need- 
ed by  the  kind  of  peaches  used  and  cover  with  an  upper 
crust  of  puff  paste.  Make  in  a  quick  oven  and  serve  while 
fresh  and  barely  cool  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream 
with  each  piece.  Be  sure  that  the  cream  is  very  cold  and 
whisk.it  light  with  an  egg  beater. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — One  pint  of  stewed  pumpkin,  four  eggs, 
one-half  a  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  pints  of 
milk;  flavor  with  spices.     Bake  in  a  rich  crust. 

Cream  Pie. — (  )ne-half  cup  sugar,  one  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  two  good  level 
tablespoonfuls  Hour,  two  cups  milk,  two  teaspoons  vanilla. 
How  to  mix  it:  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add 
the  flour  and  stir  well;  then  add  eggs,  and  beat  until  real 
light.  But  in  milk  and  flavoring  last,  and  bake  same  as 
milk  custard. 

Huckleberry  Pudding.— One  cup  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, one  even  teaspoon  soda,  dissolve  in  a  little  hot 
water,  one  egg  well  beaten,  one  and  one-half  cups  sifted 
flour;  add  one  pint  of  huckleberries,  well  tloured.  Put  in 
patty-pans  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Eat  with  following 
sauce:  (  me  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter;  beat 
until  it  creams.  Boil  one  cup  of  water  thickened  with  one 
tablespoon  of  Niagara  Cornstarch.  Pour  over  sugar  arid 
butter  and  flavor  with  vanilla.— Mrs.  Geo.  \V.  Genszler, 
Selins  Grove,  Pa. 

Chicken  Pie.— Cut  up  the  chicken  and  salt  well.  But- 
ter a  deep  pan,  and  line  with  rich  pie  crust,  roll  out  some  of 
the  pastry  thin   and  cut   into  squares.     Lay  in  some  pieces 

45 


of  chicken,  larger  pieces  first,  cover  with  pastry  squares, 
then  the  remaining  chicken,  and  more  squares  of  pastry. 
Add  a  large  lump  of  butter,  and  pour  over  all  enough  sweet 
milk  to  cover.  Two  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour  had  been 
previously  stirred  into  the  milk.  Season  with  pepper,  and 
slice  in  two  or  three  hard-boiled  eggs.  Cover  pan  with 
thick  crust  of  pastry  and  steam  an  hour  and  a  half,  first 
placing  a  greased  tin  cover  on  pie.  ■ 

Repellent  Pie  Crust. — If  the  bottom  crust  of  a  pie  is 
brushed  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg  before  putting  in 
the  filling,  it  will  not  absorb  the  juices  and  become  soggy. 

Lutheran  Pudding. — One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  hot 
water,  one  cup  currants,  one  cup  raisins,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Scald  a  pudding  bag,  and  flour 
well  on  the  inside.  Put  in  the  batter  and  tie,  leaving  a 
little  room  to  swell.  Boil  three  hours  turning  occasionally. 
Dip  the  bag  into  cold  water  before  turning  out  the  pud- 
ding. Sauce:  Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  with  a  small 
lump  butter  and  sugar,  to  make  a  creamy  sauce.  Cherries 
or  berries  may  be  substituted  for  currants  and  raisins,  and 
any  favorite  pudding  sauce  may  be  used.  Hard  sauce  is 
very  nice. — Mrs.  O.  H.  Melchor,  Springtown,  Pa. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  min- 
ute tapioca,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs  (leaving  out 
whites  of  three),  one  cup  of  sugar;  beat  sugar  and  yolks 
of  eggs  together  very  light,  add  tapioca,  stir  gently  into  the 
boiling  milk  until  it  thickens.  Beat  the  three  whites  of  the 
eggs  into  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  this  through  the  pudding. 
-Airs.  D.   R.   Becker,   Xew  Franklin,   Pa. 

Confederate  Plum  Pudding.— ( )ne  cup  sweet  milk,  one 
cup  suet  finely  chopped,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  One  cup 
molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda,  three  cups  flour.  Steam  three 
hours.  Serve  with  wine  or  lemon  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  W. 
Wonderly. 

New  Jersey  Rice  Pudding. — Three  tablespoons  best 
riccr,  two  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  one  quart  good 
rich  milk.  Boil  on  to])  of  stove  until  rice  is  tender,  stirring 
occasionally  to  prevent  sticking  to  pan.  Then  place  in 
moderately  heated  oven   just  long  enough  to  form  a  light 

46 


brown  skin  over  top.  Then  remove  to  a  cool  place.  Do 
not  remove  from  pan  in  which  it  is  cooked  until  cold.  Care 
should  be  taken  to  preserve  the  brown  skin  as  far  as  pos- 
sible, so  that  it  may  be  placed  on  top  of  pudding  when 
served. — Mrs.  J.  1).  "Shinier,  Martin's  Creek,  Pa. 

Rice  Pudding. — Half  cup  rice,  one  quart  of  milk,  a 
little  salt,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  small  lump  of  butter,  ami 
one  cup  of  raisins,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  nutmeg;  set  in  the 
own  to  bake  ;  stir  several  times  until  rice  is  tender;  then  let 
brown. — Airs.  D.  T.  Koser,  Arndtsville,  Pa. 

Apple  Pudding. —  Butter  a  deep  pan,  put  in  two  cupfuls 
of  apples  chopped  fine,  one-half  cup  butter,  and  a  full  cup 
of  sugar.  Make  a  batter  of  three  eggs,  a  cup  of  milk,  flour 
to  make  a  batter;  pour  over  the  apples  and  bake  about 
forty  minutes.     Serve  with  cream  or  hot  sauce. 

Cottage  Pudding.— One  Qgg,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup 
milk,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  two  teaspoons  Royal 
Baking  Powder,  one  pint  flour. — Mrs.  S.  Margaret  Beist- 
line.  New  Kingston,  Pa. 

Cherry  Pudding. — One  pint  of  flour,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  cup  of  milk  and  two  eggs.  Stir 
all  together  until  smooth ;  add  one  cup  cherries,  stoned. 
Tour  in  small  cups,  grease:!,  and  steam  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  hard  sar.ee,  or  if  preferred,  a  hot  sauce. 

Orange  Pudding. — Peel  four  large  oranges  and  cut 
them  into  small  pieces  taking  out  the  seeds.  Put  them  into 
a  warm  pie  dish  with  three  tablespoons  of  sugar;  stand  in 
oven  to  get  warm.  Take  one  pint  of  milk  and  bring  to 
boiling  point,  when  add  two  tablespoons  of  Niagara  Corn- 
starch that  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Boil  all  this  for  a  minute 
and  pour  over  the  oranges.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
in  a  little  powdered  sugar  and  spread  over  the  custard  like 
a  meringue  and  put  in  the  oven  a  moment  until  brown. — 
McCall's  Magazine. 

Grandmother's  Cherry  Pudding. — This  is  one  of  the 
nicest  of  plain  frozen  desserts. 

Stone  a  pint  of  fresh  cherries;  chop  them  very,   very 

47 


fine  and  add  a  half  cup  of  powdered  sugar;  let  these  stand 
an  hour.  Put  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  eight 
ounces  of  sugar,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  when 
cold  add  a  pint  of  cream;  add  two  drops  of  cochineal. 
Turn  the  mixture  in  the  freezer  and  freeze  until  quite  stiff. 
Remove  the  dasher,  repack  and  stand  aside  for  one  and  a 
half  to  two  hours.  At  serving  time  stir  in  the  cherries,  and 
serve  at  once  in  tumblers,  or  punch  glasses. — Mrs.  S.  T. 
R<  >rer. 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding. — Pare,  quarter  and  slice  nice 
tart  apples  ;  grease  a  pie  plate  and  slice  the  apples  in  it. 
Make  a  batter  of  one  egg,  one  cup  sour  cream,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stilt  batter.  Pour  it  over  the  apples  and  bake.  When 
it  is  done,  turn  upside  down  and  spread  with  butter  and 
sugar,  and  eat  while  warm  with  cream. 

Ralston  Cocoanut  Pudding. — One  cup  grated  cocoanut, 
one  cup  cooked  Ralston,  one  quart  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  If  your  grocer  is  not  sup- 
plied with  Ralston  Purina  Foods,  advise  Purina  Mills,  St. 
Louis,  Mo.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Add  milk, 
Ralston,  cocoanut  and  vanilla.  Put  in  baking  dish,  and 
bake  thirty  minutes. 

Queen  of  Puddings. — (  )ne  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
quart  of  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  sugar,  and  one  lemon  grated.  Pake  it  brown,  remove 
from  oven  and  spread  over  it  the  beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar.     Set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Delicious  Bread  Pudding. — Cut  the  bread  in  thin  slices, 
spread  with  butter,  and  place  in  a  deep  dish.  Between 
each  layer  sprinkle  well  with  fresh  grated  cocoanut.  Beat 
eight  eggs,  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  mix  with 
three  pints  of  milk,  turn  this  on  the  bread,  letting  it  re- 
main till  one-half  of  the  milk  is  absorbed.  Pake"  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  If  the  cocoanut  is  not  sufficiently 
sweet  it  is  well  to  scatter  powdered  sugar  between  the 
layers  before  baking. 

Hard  Sauce. — Cream  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar 
and  one-half  cupful  butter.     When  they  are  well  creamed, 

48 


beat  in  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Whip  smooth  and  light.  Mould  neatly  -upon  a 
butter  plate  and  set  in  the  cold  to  harden. 

Lemon  Sauce. — (  )ne  large  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, one  egg,  one  teas];*  ion  nutmeg,  three  tablespoons  boil- 
ing water,  one  lemon  (all  the  juice  and  one-half  the  grated 
peel).  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  in  the  egg 
(whipped  light),  the  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Beat  hard  10 
minutes  and  add  the  boiling  water  a  spoonful  at  a  time. 
Put  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  steam  heats  very  hot,  but 
do  not  boil.     Stir  constantly. 

Nutmeg  Sauce. —  Mix  together  in  a  saucepan  one  heap- 
ing tablespoon  cornstarch  and  one  cup  cold  water.  Pour 
over  this  mixture  one  cup  boiling  water  and  place  over  the 
lire.  Stir  occasionally  until  it  boils  up;  then  add  one  cup- 
ful sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  and  one-third  of  a 
grated  nutmeg.  Simmer  for  half  an  hour,  and  after  adding 
two  tablespoons  butter,  strain  and  serve  hot. 

Pineapple  Sherbert. — The  juice  of  nine  lemons,  keep- 
ing out  all  the  seeds,  one  small  can  shredded  pineapple, 
four  cups  white  sugar.  Use  enough  water  to  fill  gallon 
freezer  within  two  inches  ^\  the  tie,).  When  half  frozen 
add  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Omit  the  pineapple  you 
have  lemon  sherbert,  or  add  one  pint  of  itnfermented  grape 
juice  to  the  lemon  and  you  have  delicious  fruit  sherbert. — 
Airs.  F.  1).  Altman. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. — Tut  three  pints  ^\  strawber- 
ries in  a  dee])  dish  with  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Season  three 
pints  of  cream  with  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Freeze  this.  Take  out  the  beater  and  draw  the  frozen 
cream  to  the  sides  of  the  freezer.  Fill  the  space  in  the 
center  with  strawberries  and  sugar,  which  cover  with  the 
frozen  cream.  I'm  on  the  cover  and  set  away  for  an  hour 
or  more.  When  the  cream  is  served  garnish  the  mould 
with  fresh  strawberries. 

A  simple  strawberry  ice  cream  is  made  of  one  quart 
of  cream,  one  quart  of  strawberries,  one  pint  of  sugar. 
Mash  the  sugar  and  strawberries  together,  let  them  stand 

49 


one  or  two  hours;  add  the  cream,  rub  through  a  strainer 
into  the  freezer  and  freeze. — Lutheran  Observer. 

Peach  Ice  Cream. — Pleat  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  a  pint 
of  new  milk,  a  heaping  coffee  cupful  of  sugar,  and  let  it 
conic  to  a  boil;  cool  and  add  a  quart  of  fresh  peach  pulp 
made  by  rubbing  peaches  through  a  colander;  freeze. 
When  nearly  frozen  some  prefer  to  stir  in  small  pieces  of 
ripe  peaches. 

Pineapple  Mousse. — One  quart  canned  pineapple,  one 
packet  Knox's  gelatine,  one  pint  boiling  water,  one  cup 
chopped  nuts;  put  in  a  mould  and  when  cold  serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  G.  M.  Wertz,  Mechanicsburg,  Pa. 

Strawberry  Sherbet. — A  pint  of  water,  a  pint  of  sugar, 
a  pint  of  strawberries,  juice  of  three  lemons;  boil  the 
sugar  and  water  together  until  it  becomes  almost  a  syrup. 
When  partly  cool  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  straw- 
berries, strain  and  when  cold  freeze. — Lutheran  Observer. 

Frozen  Custard. — One  quart  of  rich  milk,  one-half 
pound  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  cornstarch,  three  eggs,  one 
teaspoonful  vanilla.  Put  milk  and  sugar  into  double,  boiler, 
reserving  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  beat  with  whites 
of  eggs.  Mix  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  yolk 
of  eggs  ;  add  to  milk  when  near  boiling.  It  must  not  boil 
l)ii t  cook  wrell.  Take  from  fire  and  strain.  When  cold  beat 
the  whites  of  eggs  and  sugar,  and  stir  all  together  and 
freeze  at  once. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Leisenring. 

Floating  Island. — Heat  three  cups  of  milk  to  the  scald- 
ing point  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
beaten  with  three  rounding  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  cook 
until  thickened.  Turn  at  once  into  a  bowl  and  after  cool- 
ing flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
stiff  and  dry  and  cook  in  spoonfuls  on  top  of  a  pan  of 
boiling  water.  Pour  the  cold  custard  into  a  serving  dish, 
dot  with  the  little  white  islands  and  garnish  here  and  there 
with  bits  of  sweet,  bright-colored  jelly.  In  serving  give 
each  person  some  of  the  custard,  meringue  and  jelly. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream. — Steep  one-fourth  cup  ground  cof- 
fee in  one  cup  of  milk  ten  minutes.     Strain  it  and  add  to 

5o 


the  cream  or  custard  recipe;  or,  add  one-fourth  cup  of  black 
coffee. — Boston  Cook  Book. 

Orange  Ice.— Press  out  the  juice  and  pulp  on  a  grind- 
er, soak  in  it  a  little  of  the  shaved  outer  rind;  to  one  pint 
of  juice  add  one  quart  of  water,  one-half  cup  of  lemon  juice 
and  about  two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar.  Use  blood 
oranges  when  a  pink  color  is  desired.— Mrs.  T.  H.  Lincoln. 

Chocolate  Sunda. — Melt  one  square  or  ounce  of  Walter 
Baker's  chocolate,  or  two  tablespoons  of  Bensdorp's  cocoa; 
blend  with  it  one-fourth  cup  cream  and  then  stir  into  it 
one  pint  of  cream  whipped  stiff.  Sweeten  to  taste  with 
powdered  sugar,  turn  into  freezer  can  and  let  stand  till 
patrly  frozen. — Boston  Cook  Book. 

Buttermilk  Ice  Cream. — To  three  cups  rich  foamy  but- 
termilk (not  bitter),  add  one  cup  thick  cream,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar,  and  flavor  to  taste  with  vanilla  or  black 
coffee. — Mrs.  Lincoln. 

Pineapple  or  Strawberry  Sponge.— Soak  one-half  box 
Knox's  gelatine  in  half  cup  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Boil  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  water  and  two  cups  grated 
pineapple  together  for  a  few  minutes  and  then  turn  on  to 
the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  ;  cook  until  thick.  Add  the 
soaked  gelatine  and  stir  until  dissolved;  now  set  aside  until 
cool,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
until  stiff  and  stir  into  the  sponge;  beat  until  it  becomes 
firm,  then  turn  into  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water.  For 
strawberry  sponge  mash  the  berries  and  sift.— Mrs.  Marv 

I'  MX. 

A  Delicious  Dessert.— Bake  a  small  angel's  food  cake 
m  a  round  tin  which  has  a  hole  in  the  middie.  When  cold 
take  a  sharp  knife  and  enlarge  the  hole  in  the  center.  Fill 
with  sliced  peaches,  after  placing  it  on  a  handsome  dish, 
and  cover  with  a  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Let  it  stand  on 
the  ice  for  a  few  moments  before  serving. — Lutheran  Ob- 
server. 


51 


IN  all  receipts  in  this  book  calling  for 
baking  powder  use  "  Royal."  Better 
and  finer  food  will  be  the  result,  and 
you  will  safeguard  it  against  alum. 

In  receipts  calling  for  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  use  two 
spoonfuls  of  Royal,  and  leave  the  cream  of 
tartar  and  soda  out.  You  get  the  better  food 
and  save  much  trouble  and  guess  work. 

Look  out  for  alum  baking  powders.  Do 
not  permit  them  to  come  into  your  house 
under  any  consideration.  They  add  an  in- 
jurious substance  to  your  food,  destroying 
in  part  its  digestibility.  All  doctors  will  tell 
you  this,  and  it  is  unquestionable.  The  use 
of  alum  in  whiskey  is  absolutely  prohibited  ; 
why  not  equally  protect  the  food  of  our 
women  and  children? 

Alum  baking  powders  may  be  known  by 
their  price.  Baking  powders  at  a  cent  an 
ounce  or  ten  or  twenty-five  cents  a  pound 
are  made  from  alum.  Avoid  them.  Use  no 
baking  powder  unless  the  label  shows  it  is 
made  from  cream  of  tartar. 


5^ 


Cakes,  Icings  and  Fillings 

Martin  Luther  Cake.— Heat  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Work  one  cup  of  butter  and  three  cups  of 
sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  a  half  cup  of  sweet  milk  in 
which  has  been  dissolved  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Then 
add  the  eggs.  Lastly  add  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour 
in  which  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  has  been  well 
mixed.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  live  layers.  Ice  be- 
tween the  layers,  on  the  to])  and  around  the  sides.  For 
the  icing,  heat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  froth.  Boil  two 
cups  oi  sugar  and  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  water  until  the 
solution  threads  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Pour  while 
boiling  hot  into  the  beaten  eggs,  being  careful  to  stir  all 
the  tune,  and  continue  stirring  until  icing-  is  thick  enough 
to  spread  on  cake.  Before  icing  hardens,  sprinkle  with 
grated  or  prepared  cocoanut  between  layers,  and  on  the 
sides  and  top  of  completed  cake.  If  a"  cream  chocolate 
icing  is  preferred  the  following  may  be  used:  Three  cups 
oi  A  sugar  (granulated  will  do),  one  cup  of  sweet  milk 
Boil  until  it  drops  like  honey.  Then  beat  until  cold  and 
flavor  w,th  vanilla.  Melt  a  cake  of  sweet  chocolate  and  put 
,t  on  last.— Mrs.  II.  I).  Shinier.  Watsontown,  Pa. 

Japanese  Layer  Cake.— ( )ne  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of 
an  egg.  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  Hour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  flavoring  This 
will  make  three  layers,  Use  the  cream  chocolate1  icing  of 
tin-  above  cake. 

Prince  Albert  Cake.— Two  cups  soft  white  sugar,  one- 
halt  cup  each  butter  and  lard,  four  eggs;  reserve  whites  of 
U\n.  for  ,c,n--:  four  tablespoons  Orleans  molasses,  one 
tablespoon  soda,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, one-half  nutmeg,  our  cup  seedless  raisins,  three  cups 
"our.  bake  in  layers.-Mrs.  James  11.  Moore,  Newark, 
(  )lu< t. 

53 


Devil's  Food  Cake. — Part  ist:  One  cup  grated  choco- 
late, one  egg,  one-half  cup  milk,  two-thirds  cup  sugar; 
boil  together  until  thick,  then  set  aside  to  cool. 

Part  2(1:  One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup 
milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
baking  soda,  mix  part  first  and  second  together,  bake  in 
layers  and  ice  with  a  white  icing — fine. — Mrs..  W.  E. 
Brown,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 

Orange  Cake. — One  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  three 
and  one-fourth  cups  sweet  milk.  Stir  sugar  and  butter  to- 
gether. Take  five  eggs,  beat  whites  and  yolks  separately. 
.Mix  eggs  with  the  butter  and  sugar;  four  cups  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  orange  rind  grated 
in  cake. — Mrs.  S.  G.  Cocklin. 

Minnehaha  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  heaping  cups  of 
flour  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  thoroughly.  Cream  the  sugar 
and  butter  together,  then  add  milk,  flour  and  last  the  whites 
of  eggs.  Bake  in  three  sheets.  Spread  with  icing.  For  the 
icing  take  one  cup  sugar  and  boil  in  one-half  cup  hot  water. 
Boil  until  it  strings.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff. 
Then  pour  the  hot  sugar  over  the  whites  and  beat  well 
together.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  add  one  pound  of  large  blue 
raisins,  cut  in  half  and  seeded,  stir  in  the  hot  icing,  spread 
thick  between  the  sheets. — Mrs.  Grace  L.  Shimer. 

Lady  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cupfuls  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  whites  of  five 
eggs.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  milk. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  and  stir  in  lightly.  Then 
flour  and  baking  powder  well  sifted  together.  Flavor  with 
almond.  Bake  in  laver  pans,  and  ice  with  boiled  icing, 
also  flavored  with  almond. — Mrs.  G.  Z.  Stup,  Chester 
Springs.   Pa. 

Feather  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  one  egg,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
"lie  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Beat  the 
white  of  egg  to  froth  and  stir  in  last. 

54 


Ice  Cream  Cake. — Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  whites 
of  five  eggs,  one  cup  butter  and  lard,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
one-half  cup  cornstarch,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two 
teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla. — 
Airs.  Eli  Dunkleberger,  New  Kingston,  Pa. 

Buckeye  Cake. — Three  cups  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons 
cream  of  tartar  and  five  eggs. — Mrs.  Rachel  Stammel, 
Allen,  Pa. 

Number  Cake. — One  cup  of  cream,  three  cups  of  sugar, 
three  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal 
Baking  Powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla. —  Mrs.  R.  F.  Fetter- 
olf,   Mercersburg,  Pa. 

White  Cake. — Whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  pulver- 
ized sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
one-half  cup  milk,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch, 
two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Flavor  with 
vanilla. — Airs.  S.  F.  Greenhoe. 

Chocolate  Nut  Cake. — Light  part:  Beat  together  till 
very  light  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-fourth  cup  butter ; 
add  six  tablespoons  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  yeast  powder,  sifted  with  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  of  flour  and  the  well  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs. 
Rake  into  layers.  Dark  part:  Half  cup  of  sugar,  three 
ounces  butter,  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  together;  one- 
fourth  cup  milk,  one  rounded  teaspoonful  yeast  powder, 
and  one  cup  flour.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  one  layer.  Make 
filling  as  follows:  Four  ounces  Baker's  chocolate  melted; 
add  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  until  it  forms  a  very  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  ice  water;  add  one  cup  chopped  nuts, 
spread  between  the  layers;  ice  with  Baker's  chocolate  icing, 
and  decorate  with  unbroken  halves  of  English  walnuts. — 
Mrs.  Jennie  Lippy. 

Chocolate  Cake.— G rate  one-half  cake  Walter  Baker's 
chocolate,  pour  over  it  one-half  cup  boiling  water.  Let 
cool,  then  add  last  thing,  before  putting  in  pans,  two  cups 
brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  flour,  one-half 
cup  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  table- 
spoon vanilla. —  Miss  Sadie  Eichelberger. 

55 


Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  five  fresh 
eggs,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Pow- 
der, three-fourths  cup  boiling  water;  flavor  to  taste. — Mrs. 
Chas.  T.  Aikens,  Selins  Grove,  Pa. 

Ginger  Bread. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, three-fourth  cup  butter  and  lard,  three  and  one- 
half  cups  flour,  three  fresh  eggs,  one  cup  boiling  water, 
one  teaspoon  of  ginger,  one  tablespoon  of  soda. 

Layer  Spice  Cake. — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half 
cup  buter,  two  eggs,  reserving  white  of  one  for  frosting; 
spoon  allspice,  one-half  nutmeg,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon of  allspice,  two  nutmeg,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  milk,  two  and  three-fourths  scant 
cups  of  flour.     Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling. — One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  boil  until  it 
drops  from  spoon  like  syrup,  then  quickly  add  the  white  <>1 
one  egg  beaten  stiff;  to  this  add  one  cup  of  chopped  rai- 
sins.—  Mrs.  Harlan  K.  Fenner,  Louisville,  Ky. 

Cream  Cake  or  Pie. — Crust :  Three  eggs,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one-third  teaspoonful  soda,  one  tea- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  separate- 
ly. Stir  together  quickly  and  bake  in  layers,  make  batter 
three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick.  Cream :  Two  and  one- 
half  cups  sweet  milk,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons flour,  one  egg.  Boil  until  it  thickens  and  flavor 
with  lemon  or  vanilla.  When  the  crust  is  cold,  split  and 
put  cream  between. — Mrs.  O.  H.  Melchor. 

Cream  Cake. — Take  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two-thirds 
of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar,  two  and 
one-half  cupfuls  flour,  three  eggs.  Make  the  custard  for 
the  cake  with  one  cupful  of  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  it  and  brought  to  a  boiling  heat, 
with  the  yolk  of  one  egg  dropped  in  to  color  it.  Flavor 
with  lemon  or  vanilla  ;  let  it  cool.  Bake  your  cake  in  round 
pie-tins;  use  just  enough  batter  in  the  tin  so  that  when 
they  are  baked,  two  of  them  put  together  will  make  one 
proper  sized  cake.     Make  the  custard  first  and  let  it  cool; 

56 


put  the  cakes  together  when  they  arc  warm  with  plenty 
of  custard  between  them. —  Mrs.   1).   R.   Becker. 

Rochester  Jelly  Cake. — Three  eggs,  two  cups  sugar, 
nearly  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  Hour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  stirred  in  milk,  and 
two  scant  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  well  in  the 
flour.— Mrs.  J.  L.  Metzger. 

Cornstarch  Cake. — Cream  one  scant  cup  of  butter  and 
twO  cups  of  sugar  together.  Take  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one  cup  cornstarch,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  sifted 
in  with  two  heaping  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder. 
Then  take  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  beaten  very  light  and 
mix  thoroughly  the  last  thing. —  Mrs.  G.  VV.   McSherry. 

Spice  Cake. — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  sour  milk,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  two 
teaspoons  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  four  eggs,  two  cups  flour, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar.  Mix 
four  yolks  and  one  white  with  the  butter  and  sugar.  Take 
the  remaining  three  whites  and  one  cup  white  sugar  for 
icing. — Mrs.  A.  R.  Longanecker. 

Sponge  Cake. — Twelve  eggs,  their  weight  in  sugar,  the 
weight  of  seven  in  flour,  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  good  vinegar.  Beat  the  yelks  and  sugar  to- 
gether, add  the  whites  beaten  stiff,  then  add  the  flour  which 
is  stirred  in  with  as  little  beating  as  possible.  Add  the 
lemon  and  vinegar  just  as  you  put  it  in  the  pan. — Mrs.  H. 
W.  Bender. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, four  eggs,  take  whites  out  for  icing,  one  cup  milk,  two 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Pow- 
der. 

Filling. —  Butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one  cup  sugar,  yolkes 
three  eggs,  rind  and  juice  of  an  orange.  Let  boil  and  stir 
while  boiling;  spread  between  layers.  lee  cake  on  top 
with  white  icing  and  cocoanut. — Mrs.  I.  G.  Seiler,  Selins 
Grove,  Pa. 

Walnut  Cake. — Three-quarters  cup  butter,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  tour  eggs,  two  teaspoons    Roya]    Baking  pow- 

57 


der,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  pound  rolled  wal- 
nuts.—Miss  Sadie  Eichelberger. 

Nut  Cake. — Half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  three  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour;  add  one 
and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one-half 
cup  milk,  one  cup  of  hickorynuts,  or  any  kind  preferred. 
Kul)  butter  and  suggar  to  a  light  cream  ;  add  the  eggs  beat- 
en  to  a  froth,  flour  which  has  powder  sifted  in  it.  Mix  with 
milk  and  nuts  into  a  rather  firm  batter.  Bake  in  paperlined 
tin,  in  steady  stove  thirty-five  minutes. 

Shellbark  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar  (white),  two  eggs, 
one-half  cup  shortening,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup 
ground  shellbarks,  three  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Pow- 
der, flour  to  stiffen. — Mrs.  Dora  Stouffer,  Camp  Hill,  Pa. 

Sponge  Cake. — Five  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  gran- 
ulated sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-third  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar,  pinch  of  salt,  flavor  to  taste.  Bake 
in  layers.     Ice  with  chocolate. — Mrs.  W.  W.  Wonderly. 

Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  sugar,  one-half  butter,  one 
cup  sour  milk,  six  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  wine- 
glass full  of  brandy,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  cur- 
rants, one-half  pound  of  citron  cut  in  small  pieces.  Mix 
the  fruit  in  one  pound  of  flour.  Bake  two  hours. — Miss 
Mary  Miller,  Selins  Grove,  Pa. 

Old  Fashioned  Sponge  Cake. — Ten  eggs  and  one 
pound  soft  white  sugar  beaten  together  until  very  light. 
Then  add  one  pint  of  flour.  Can  be  baked  in  loaf  or  in 
layers.  When  baked  in  layers  sliced  bananas  laid  between 
the  lavers  make  a  very  delicious  filling. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Lutz, 
Carlisle,  Pa. 

Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  ten  eggs,  three-quarters  of  pound  of 
flour,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  three-quarters 
of  pound  of  citron,  four  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  allspice.  Bake  slowly  for 
three  hours. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Leisenring. 

Fruit  Cake.— One  pound  brown  sugar,  one  pint  New 
Orleans  molasses,  three  eggs,  one-third  pound  butter,  one 
tablespoon  soda,  one  pint  buttermilk,  one  pound  currants, 

58 


one  pound  raisins,  citron,  four  large  cups  flour,  one  table- 
spoon ground  cloves,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  alspice,  one  nutmeg,  one  glass  of  wine 
(six  tablespoons  brandy  if  you  like.) — Airs.  Adam  Nell. 

White  Fruit  Cake. — (  )ne  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
whites  of  six  eggs,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half 
pound  citron,  one-half  pound  almonds,  blanched,  one-half 
pound  raisins,  one-half  pound  dates,  one-half  pound  figs. 
Flour  fruit  well  and  bake  slowly  two  hours.  Wine  glass 
of  brandy. — Mrs.   Mae  Albright. 

Marble  Cake. — Dark  part :  One  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-halt" 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  cinna- 
mon and  cloves.  Light  part :  One  cup  of  white  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four 
eggs,  beaten,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Put  a 
spoonful  of  the  dark  and  one  of  the  white. — Miss  Hazel  X. 
Miller. 

Devil's  Food  Cake. — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half 
cup  butter,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one-quarter  cake 
Walter  Baker's  Chocolate,  with  enough  hot  water  to  dis- 
solve it.  one-half  cup  hot  water,  one  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water,  two  cups  sifted  Hour. — Airs.  Mae  Al- 
bright. 

Mountain  Jelly  Cake.— One-half  cup  butter  and  lard, 
mixed,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  two  Qgg^,  three 
cups  dour,  three  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder. — Airs. 
\V.  C.  Garber,  Andersonburg,  Pa. 

Cream  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs 
well  beaten,  four  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder.— 
Madeline  Garber. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake.— Three  cups  flour,  three  table- 

ons  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sour  cream,  one  egg. 

two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  soda. —  Marie  Garber. 

Black  Chocolate  Cake.— One  cup  Waller  Baker's 
Cocoa,   one-half  cup   brown    sugar,   one   egg,   three-fourths 


59 


cup  of  water,  stir  these  together  and  cook  until  thick,  let 
cool.  Turn  into  mixing  bowl,  add  three-fourths  cup  but- 
ter, two  cups  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  cream  these  well, 
add  one  cup  milk,  three  cups  Hour,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
bake  in  layers  or  loaf.— Mrs.  \V.  C.  Garber. 

French  Chocolate  Cake.— W hites  of  seven  eggs,  two 
cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  three  cups 
flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder.  The 
chocolate  part  of  cake  is  made  just  the  same,, only  use  the 
yelks  of  eggs  with  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate  stirred  into 
it.  Bake  in  layers,  the  layers  being  light  and  dark,  spread 
a  custard  between  them,  which  is  made  with  two  eggs,  one 
pine  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  cornstarch. 
When  cool  flavor  with  vanilla.  Fine. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Gar- 
ber. 

Snickadoodle. — Two  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  but- 
ter, three  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  cup  milk, 
three  cups  Hour,  two  eggs.  Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream;  add  milk,  then  flour  well  sifted  with  baking  powr- 
der.  Eggs  unbeaten  put  in  last  thing.  Sugar  and  cinna- 
mon sprinkled  on  to]).     Use  large  tins  and  spread  thin. 

Angel's  Food. — Three  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup 
butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  four  cups  flour,  four  eggs,  four 
teaspoonfuls   Royal   Baking  PoAvder. 

Convention  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  whites  of  four 
eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  scant  cup  butter,  three  cups 
flour,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  vanilla.  Beat 
a  long  time  and  bake  in  a  loaf. 

Palmetto  Cake. — One-half  pound  butter,  ten  ounces 
sugar,  one  even  tin  cupful  flour,  one  teaspoonful  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  one  pound  citron  (dredged  in  flour),  one  cocoa- 
nut,  five  eggs. 

Watermelon  Cake. — Two  cups  fine  white  sugar,  one 
cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
three  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  the  whites  of  eight 
eggs  beaten  very  light.  Flavor.  Red  part:  One-half  cup1 
butter,  one  cup  red  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  milk,  one  cup 
seedless    raisins,    two    cups    flour,    two    teaspoonfuls    Royal 

60 


Baking  Powder.     Flavor.     Put  the   red   part   in    center   of 
pan  and  white  around  the  outside. 

Coffee  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  white  sugar,  one 
cup  molasses,  one  cup  lard  or  butter,  one  cup  coffee,  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  cur- 
rants, one-half  pound  tigs,  one  large  cup  walnut  meats, 
one  teaspoonfu]  cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half 
nutmeg,  five  and  one-half  cups  flour. —  Mrs.  M.  A.  Good- 
hart. 

Molasses  Cake. — One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sugar, 
three-fourths  cup  shortening,  one  cup  buttermilk  or  water, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water, 
flour  enough  to  make  a  batter. —  Mrs.  M.  II.   Ilavice. 

Oatmeal  Crackers.— Three  cups  dry  oatmeal,  two  cups 
light  brown  sugar,  one  cup  melted  lard,  one-half  table- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  three-fourths  cup  warm  water. 
Flour  enough  to  roll. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Metzger. 

Jumbles. — One-fourth  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar, 
three-fourths  pound  flour,  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  yolk 
of  one  egg.  Flavor  to  taste.  Mix  flour,  sugar,  yolk  of 
eggs  and  butter  as  for  pie  crust,  then  add  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  froth,  and 'flavoring.  Drop  on  tins,  and  hake 
in  rather  quick  oven. —  Mrs.   Charles   Hetrick. 

Cocoa  Sticks. — Six  tablespoonfuls  butter,  three-fourths 
cup  sugar  (scant),  one  egg.  one  tablespoonful  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  vanilla  or  pinch  of  cinnamon,  five  teaspoonfuls 
cocoa,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one 
and  one-fourth  to  one  and  one-half  cups  sifted  pastry  rlonr. 
Cream  butter  until  soft;  add  sugar  gradually  and  heat 
well;  add  beaten  eggs,  milk  and  vanilla;  mix  well;  sift 
cocoa,  baking  powder  and  pinch,  salt  with  one-half  cup 
rlonr;  stir  this  into  the  mixture  first,  use  remainder  of  flour 
to  make-  a  firm  dough.  Set  on  ice  to  harden.  Sprinkle 
board  with  cocoa  and  little  sugar.  Use  small  pieces  of 
dough  at  a  time,  toss  it  on  the  hoard  to  prevent  sticking, 
roll  them,  cut  in  strips  one-half  inch  wide  and  three  long. 
Bake  in  oven  three  or  four  minutes.  This  recipe  must  be 
carefully  prepared  to  get  the  best  results. — Miss  Elizabeth 
Kc\ill  Burr. 

61 


Hermits. — One  cup  white  sugar,  one  cup  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  raisins,  one  heaped  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  nine  tablespoons  of  milk,  one 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves.  Add  flour  to 
make  stiff  enough  to  roll  soft. — Mrs.  W.  I.  Redcay. 

Crumb  Cakes. — Two  and  one-half  cups  A  sugar,  two 
and  three-fourths  cups  flour,  three-fourths  cup  butter  and 
lard  (one-half  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cup  lard),  one  cup 
thick  milk,  two  eggs,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and 
same  amount  of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  with  a  little  of  the 
thick  milk,  and  then  with  all  of  it.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  butter 
and  lard  together  first  with  the  hand.  Add  milk,  yolks  of 
eggs  and  last  of  all  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  gem 
pans  and  ice  with  any  desired  icing,  or  save  enough  of 
crumbled  sugar  shortening  and  flour  and  sprinkle  over  the 
tops  of  the  cakes  before  they  go  into  the  oven. — Mrs.  H. 
C.  Alleman. 

Queen  Drops. — Three-fourths  pound  sugar,  six  ounces 
butter,  four  eggs,  beaten  separately;  ten  ounces  flour,  one- 
fourth  pound  currants.  Flavor  with  oil  of  lemon.  Drop  on 
tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Taylor  Cake. — One  quart  molasses,  three-fourths  11). 
sugar,  three-fourths  pound  butter,  two  cups  thick  milk, 
four  eggs,  two  tablespoons  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  of 
tartar.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar  and  the 
yolks.  Beat  the  whites  separately.  Then  add  the  mo- 
lasses, stir  in  the  flour  and  milk  alternately.  Spices  to  suit 
the  taste.  Lastly  add  the  soda.  Drop  in  pans. — Miss  Har- 
riet Enck. 

Sugar  Drops. — With  the  hands  work  to  a  cream  one- 
half  pound  butter,  unite  with  one-half  pound  of  fine  sugar, 
beat  well  together.  Add  four  eggs,  two  at  a  time,  and  beat 
about  two  minutes.  Stir  in  three-fourths  pound  flour,  one- 
fourth  pound  currants,  and  a  little  cinnamon  or  lemon 
extract.  Put  on  a  greased  tin  in  drops  about  the  size  of  a 
walnut  and  make  in  a  medium  oven. 

Chocolate  Ginger  Bread. — Mix  in  a  large  bowl  one 
cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  cupful  sour  milk  or  cream, 
one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one  of  cinnamon,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt.    Dissolve  one  teaspoonful  "Cow  Brand"  soda 

62 


in  a  teaspoonful  cold  water;  add  this  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  melted  butter  to  the  mixture.  Stir  in  two  cupfuls  sift- 
ed flour,  and  finally  add  two  ounces  Walter  Baker's  Choco- 
late and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted  together.  Pour 
into  three  well  buttered  deep  tin  plates,  and  bake  in  mod- 
erately hot  oven  for  twent  yminutes. — Miss  Mary  Parloa. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. — Six  cups  of  flour,  three  cups  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  cream,  one  cup  lard  or  butter,  two 
eggs,  teaspoon  saleratus,  two  teaspoons  of  ginger. 

Ginger  Bread. — One  pint  Xew  Orleans  molasses,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  one-half  pint 
lard,  one  pint  thick  milk,  one  tablespoon  soda,  two  tea- 
spoons cinnamon. — Mrs.   Rachel   Stammel. 

Yeast  Cake. — Two  cups  yeast  batter,  one  cup  lard,  two 
cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  cup  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  dis- 
solve in  two  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  flour  to  make  like 
cake  batter.  Put  lard,  sugar,  and  eggs  in  yeast;  do  not 
work  separate. 

Ginger  Snaps. — (  hie  pint  New  Orleans  molasses,  one 
and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  pint  lard,  one 
tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  gin- 
ger, one-half  tablespoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
a  tiny  bit  of  vinesrar.  Mix  everything  together,  and  after 
coming  to  the  boiling  point  let  cool  and  mix  very  stiff  with 
Hour.     Roll  very  thin. 

Doughnuts. — Four  medium  sized  potatoes,  two  cup- 
fuls sugar  (scant),  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  four 
teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder  (heaping),  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  add  spices, 
flour  to  mix  soft,  flavoring.     (  )ne  half  recipe  can  be  used. 

Ginger  Snaps. — ( )ne  pint  baking  molasses,  two  cups 
brown  sugar,  three-fourths  pint  of  lard,  one  tablespoon 
soda,  three  pints  flour,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one  tea- 
spoonful cloves,  one  teaspoonful  allspice,  one  teaspoon  cin- 
namon.— Mrs.  E.  I).  Weigle. 

Rolled  Ginger  Cakes. — One  pint  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, one  egg,  one-fourth  teacup  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
ginger,  one-half  pint  lard,  two  and  one-half  teaspoons  soda; 

63 


dissolved  in -one-fourth  teacup  hot  water.  Make  dough  just 
stiff  enough  to  roll.— Mrs.  J.  L.  Metzger. 

Crullers. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg, 
three  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream 
tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  a  little  salt.  Flavor 
with  nutmeg;  mix  as  soft  as  possible;  have  fat  to  bake. 

Doughnuts. — One  pint  thick  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  two 
eggs,  one  cup  lard,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Sufficient  flour  to 
roll. — Mrs.  S.  Margaret  Beistline. 

Sand  Tarts. — One  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  flour, 
eleven  ounces  butter,  scant  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  rub- 
bed into  the  flour,  one  pound  soft  white  sugar,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  and  one  whole  one  besides.  If  not  sufficient  to 
wet  dough  take  a  little  cream.  It  should  be  like  pie  pastry 
to  roll  out.  Wash  with  the  whites  beaten  up,  and  sprinkle 
on  sugar  and  cinnamon.     Roll  thin. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Weigle. 

Molasses  Cookies. — One  egg,  one  cup  molasses,  one 
tablespoonful  ginger,  one-third  cup  hot  water,  one  cup 
sugar,  brown,  one  cup  shortening,  butter  and  lard,  one 
tablespoonful  soda,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar,  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Stir  egg  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  molasses,  short- 
ening, and  ginger,  stirring  all  together.  Dissolve  soda  in 
hot  water  and  add.  Put  in  vinegar  last  thing  before  flour. 
Mix  as  stiff  as  sugar  cookies. 

Chocolate  Cookies. — Beat  to  a  cream  half  a  cupful  of 
butter  and  one  tablespoon  of  lard;  beat  into  this  one  cup- 
ful sugar;  then  add  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful cinnamon  and  two  ounces  Walter  Baker's  Choco- 
late, melted.  Add  one  well  beaten  egg,  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  milk.  Stir 
in  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  flour.  Roll  thin,  cut  in  round 
cakes  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven.  The  secret  of  mak- 
ing good  cookies  is  the  use  of  as  little  flour  as  will  suffice. — 
Miss  Mary  Parloa. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  (two-thirds  cup  butter,  one-third  cup  lard)  ;  one  and 
<>ne-half  cups  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  two 
cups  flour,  two  cups  raw  rolled  oats,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
Royal    Baking  Powder,  one   cup  chopped  raisins,  one  tea- 

64 


spoonful  of  cinnamon  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Add  oatmeal 
last.     Drop  on  tins. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Alleman. 

Cream  Cookies. — Two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
sour  cream,  one  cup  butter,  one  teaspoon  soda,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  dough  as  soft  as  it  can  be  rolled.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  before  baking. — Mrs.   Mae  Albright. 

Cookies. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  sour  milk,  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  small  teaspoon 
of  soda,  a  little  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Flour  enough  to 
roll.    Cut  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Fig  Filling  for  Cake. — Mix  one-half  a  pound  of  figs 
chopped  fine,  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  cupful  of  water.  Boil 
in  double  boiler  until  smooth  and  thick;  then  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Boil  figs  in  water  until  tender  before 
adding  the  sugar. 

Marshmellow  Icing. — Two  and  one-half  teaspoons  of 
instantaneous  gelatine,  one  cup  of  hot  water,  twenty-eight 
Spoons  of  pulverized  sugar,  let  come  to  a  boil,  flavor,  beat 
until  thick. — Marie  Garber,  Andersonburg,  Pa. 

Caramel  Icing. — Two  cups  In-own  sugar,  one-half  cup 
sweet  cream,  a  small  lump  of  butter.  Boil  like  taffy.  Then 
add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  beat  until  it  is  stiff  enough 
to  spread  on  the  cake. 

Icing. — One  cup  pulverized  sugar  moistened  with  a 
little  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  with  a 
half  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  or  hickorynuts. 

Lemon  Filling. — One-half  cup  water,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon.  Thicken  with  cornstarch  mixed  in  a  little 
water. 

Chocolate  Icing. — Half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  one- 
fourth  cake  of  Walter  Baker's  Chocolate,  melted,  pulverized 
sugar  to  stiffen  and  vanilla  to  flavor. 

Boiled  Icing. — Two  scant  cups  granulated  sugar,  one 
cup  water.  Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread,  when  tested  by 
taking  a  bit  between  the  thumb  and  finger.  Do  not  stir 
the  mixture  while  it  is  boiling.  Tour  over  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  and  beat   until  cold. 

65 


Pickles 


Bean  Pickle. — Three  and  one-half  quarts  lima  beans 
(cook  in  salt  water),  one  quart  small  whole  cucumbers,  two 
quarts  sliced  cucumbers,  one  quart  sliced  whole  onions, 
one  and  one-half  quarts  sliced  green  tomatoes  (scald),  six 
peppers.  Soak  in  salt  water  the  whole  mixture  ;  then  cool 
in  weakened  vinegar.  Drain  again.  Four  tins  vinegar, 
three  cups  sugar,  three  tablespoons  celery  seed,  three  table- 
spoons ground  mustard,  two  tablespoons  tumeric. 

Mustard  Pickle. — One  quart  small  whole  cucumbers, 
one  pint  large  cucumbers  sliced,  one  quart  green  tomatoes 
sliced,  one  quart  small  whole  onions,  one  large  cauliflower 
divided  into  flowerets,  four  green  peppers  cut  fine,  one 
qt.  tender  lima  beans  (boil  beans  first  in  salt  water).  Make 
a  brine  of  four  quarts  water  and  one  pint  salt,  pour  it  over 
the  mixture  and  let  it  soak  twenty-four  hours.  Heat  just 
enough  to  scald,  then  pour  into  a  colander  to  drain.  Mix 
one  cup  flour,  six  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  one  table- 
spoonful  tumeric  with  enough  cold  water  and  vinegar  to 
make  a  smooth  paste;  then  add  one  cup  sugar  and  sufficient 
vinegar  to  make  two  quarts  in  all.  Boil  this  mixture  until 
it  thickens  and  is  smooth  (stirring  all  the  time).  Then 
add  the  vegetables  and  boil  until  well  heated  through.  Add 
more  sugar  if  you  want  it  sweet. — Mrs.  Adam  Nell. 

Chili  Sauce. — Twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  three  red  or 
two  green  peppers,  two  onions,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  scant  tablespoon  of  cin- 
namon, three  cups  of  vinegar.  Peal  tomatoes  and  onions 
and  chop  or  grind  fine,  boil  one  and  one-half  hours;  bottle 
and  seal.— Mrs.  W.  C.  Garber,  Andersonburg,  Pa. 

Chow  Chow. — Two  good  sized  heads  of  cabbage,  one- 
half  peck  green  tomatoes,  four  sweet  peppers,  four  bunches 
celery,  one  dozen  onions,  one  ounce  celery  seed,  one  ounce 

66 


mustard  seed,  one  and  one-half  pounds  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  quarts  good  cider  vinegar.  Chop  cabbage,  tomatoes, 
onions  and  peppers,  and  add  three-fourths  cup  of  salt.  Mix 
well  and  let  stand  over  night.  Then  press  dry  and  add 
celery  chopped  tine,  vinegar,  sugar  and  seeds,  and  cook 
until  soft  (about  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours.)  Then 
place  in  air  tight  jars.  If  too  dry,  add  more  vinegar  and 
sugar  to  taste. — Mrs.  Chas.  Hetrick. 

Tomato  Catsup. —  Boil  tomatoes  and  run  through  col- 
ander. After  boiling  eight  quarts  of  juice  to  one-half,  add 
one  tablespoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  red  pepper,  one 
teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonfnl  cloves,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar. — Mrs.  J.  \\  .  Weeter. 

Pickled  Cauliflower. — Strip  off  the  leaves,  divide  the 
stalks,  scald  them  in  salt  water  and  dry  on  a  sieve.  Cut 
them  into  small  pieces,  put  them  in  a  jar  and  cover  with 
boiling  vinegar.  Make  a  spice-bag  according  to  the  direc- 
tions given  for  the  tomato  pickles  and  add  to  the  cauli- 
flower.— Lutheran  Observer. 

Sweet  Pickle  Pears. — 'Boil  nine  pounds  of  pears  until 
they  are  tender,  then  make  a  syrup  of  three  pounds  of 
sugar  and  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  boil  the  pears  in  it  until 
they  are  very  rich.  Add  two  teaspoon fuls  of  essence  of 
cinnamon. 

Sweet  Pickle  Peaches. — Make  a  syrup  of  one  pound 
sugar  and  one  pint  of  vinegar.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cloves  and  one  tablespoonful  of  mace,  and  cook  the  peaches 
in  it  until  tender.  Let  them  stand  over  night,  then  heat  the 
syrup  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  fruit.  Put  it  up  air- 
tight.— Lutheran  ( )bserver. 

Spiced  Tomatoes. — Steep  together  four  pounds  of 
sugar  and  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  add  three  pounds  of  to- 
matoes and  boil  for  three  hours.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  flavor  with  cloves  and  cinnamon. — Lutheran  Ob- 
server. 

Tomato  Pickles. — Chop  fine  twelve  quarts  of  green  to- 
matoes, put  them  in  a  colander  and  let  them  stand  all  night 
t<>  drain.  In  the  morning  chop  six  or  seven  green  peppers 
and  add  them  to  the  tomatoes,  with  a  cup  of  whole  mustard 

67 


seed.  Make  a  spice-bag  containing  one-half  cup  of  cinna- 
mon and  cloves  in  equal  proportions,  put  it  in  with  other 
ingredients  and  cover  the  whole  with  boiling  vinegar. — 
Lutheran  <  )bserver. 

Small  Cucumber  Fickles. — Wipe  the  cucumbers,  pack 
them  down  in  a  stone  jar.  Make  a  brine  of  salt  and  water 
sufficient  to  bear  an  egg,  pour  this  over  the  pickles  and 
let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  and  arrange  them 
neatly  in  jars.  Between  each  layer  put  a  slice  of  onion, 
about  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard  seed,  three  or  four  cloves, 
and  the  same  of  allspice,  and  a  few  bits  of  horseradish;  so 
continue  until  the  jars  are  full.  Fill  the  jars  with  boiling 
cider  vinegar  and  steam  for  twelve  minutes.  Screw  on 
tops  just  as  you  would  for  fruit. 

Sweet  Pickles. — This  recipe  will  answer  for  peaches, 
pears,  canteloupe  and  watermelon  rind. 

Pare  and  weigh  the  fruit;  to  each  seven  pounds  of  fruit 
allow  three  pounds  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  vinegar,  measure 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  a  teaspoonful  of  allspice, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  mace 
and  a  grated  nutmeg;  mix  all  together,  divide  in  four  por- 
tions, and  tie  loosely  in  a  square  of  cheese  cloth.  Throw 
these  bags  into  the  boiling  sugar  and  vinegar,  bring  to  a 
boiling  point,  and  skim.  Xow  add  the  fruit,  a  little  at  a 
time,  just  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  kettle;  as  the 
fruit  begins  to  heat  watch  it  carefully.  When  scalding  hot 
lift  it  and  put  it  in  the  jars.  When  the  jars  are  full  bring 
the  liquor  to  boiling  point,  pour  over  the  fruit,  and  steam 
for  twelve  minutes. 

Canned  Mango  Pickles. — Stuff  your  mangoes  with  the 
cabbage  that  has  been  seasoned  to  suit  the  taste.  Let  your 
mangoes  stand  in  salted  water  over  night,  before  stuffing 
them.  When  they  are  ready  make  a  syrup  of  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  horseradish  root  cut 
line  ;  few  mixed  spices.  Boil,  then  pour  over  the  mangoes. 
After  they  have  been  placed  in  the  jars,  seal  tightly.  Steam 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  They  will  keep  good  for  a  year. 
Excellent. 

Pickles. — Two  quarts  of  tart  apples,  one  pound  of  rai- 

68 


sins,  three  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  lemon 

juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  two  quarts  green 
tomatoes,  one  small  onion,  three  cupfuls  of  vinegar,  one- 
half  cupful  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  ginger.  Pare  and  core  tin- 
apples  and  put  through  food  chopper.  Chop  the  tomatoes 
and  onion  in  the  same  manner.-  Stone  the  raisins.  Mix  tin- 
apples,  tomatoes,  raisins  and  onion  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients, and  put  away  in  an  earthen  jar  over  night,  in  the 
morning  set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Let  the  water 
slowly  heat.  Steam  six  hours,  stirring  now  and  then.  Put 
in  preserve  jars  and  seal. 

Chopped  Pickles. — One-half  peck  of  green  tomatoes, 
one-half  peck  of  small  onions,  one  cupful  of  salt,  three 
quarts  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of 
white  mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  allspice,  cloves, 
cinnamon,  ginger  and  celery  seed,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
red  pepper.  Slice  and  chop  the  onions  and  tomatoes,  cover 
with  the  salt  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain  thoroughly,  put  in  a  sauce  pan,  cover  with  one 
quart  of  the  vinegar  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and 
put  the  sugar,  mustard,  pepper  and  spices  in  the  remaining 
two  quarts  of  vinegar  over  the  fire.  As  soon  as  the  vine- 
gar boils,  add  the  chopped  tomatoes  and  onions,  and  boil 
ten  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and  put  in  glass  jars 
while  hot.  The  quantities  given  above  will  make  six 
quarts. 


6y 


Memorandum 


70 


Beverages 


Blackberry  Cordial. — To  one  quart  of  blackberry  juice, 
extracted  by  the  fruit  press,  take  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  four  teaspoonfuls 
ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice;  one  quart 
of  syrup  made  as  directed.  Add  the  fruit  juices  and  spices 
to  the  syrup  and  boil  until  a  syrup  is  formed.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  cool.  When  cool  add  one  pint  of  brandy  to 
every  quart  of  fruit  juice  used;  strain  through  a  muslin 
bag,  bottle  and  cork. 

Raspberry  Shrub. — For  every  cupful  of  fruit  juice  take 
one-half  cupful  of  cider  vinegar  and  two  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
Put  the  fruit  juice,  sugar  and  vinegar  over  the  fire,  stir 
until  the  sugar  dissolves  and  boil  to  a  thick  syrup.  Skim. 
if  necessary,  strain  and  bottle. 

All  fruit  juices  are  used  in  the  same  manner.  When 
served,  allow  one-fourth  cupful  of  syrup  to  three-fourths 
cupful  of  ice  water.  Should  the  syrup  be  too  thin,  do  not 
adhere  to  this  proportion  of  water.    Taste  is  the  best  guide. 

Elder-blossom  Wine. — One  quart  of  elder  berry  blos- 
soms, nine  pounds  of  sugar,  one  yeast  cake,  three  gallons 
of  water,  three  pounds  of  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  lemon 
juice.  The  blossom  should  he  picked  carefully  from  the 
stems  and  the  quart  measure  packed  full.  Put  the  sugar 
and  water  together  over  the  fire,  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  then  let  it  come  to  a  boil  without  stirring.  Boil 
five  minutes,  skim  and  add  the  blossoms.  As  soon  as  the 
blossoms  are  well  stirred  in,  take  from  the  fire  and  cool. 
When  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water 
and  the  lemon  juice.  Put  in  an  earthen  jar  and  let  stand 
six  days,  stirring  thoroughly  three  times  daily.  The  blos- 
soms must  be  stirred  from  the  bottom  of  the  jar  each  time, 
(hi  the  seventh  day  strain  through  a  cloth  and  add  the  rai- 


.sins,  seeded.  Tut  in  glass  preserve  jars  and  cover  tightly. 
Do  not  bottle  until  January. 

Hints  on  Making  Good  Coffee  and  Tea. — i.  Never  boil 
the  water  more  than  three  or  four  minutes,  longer  boiling 
will  cause  it  to  lose  most  of  its  natural  properties  by  evap- 
oration. 2.  Water  left  in  the  tea-kettle  over  night  must 
never  be  used  in  preparing  the  breakfast  coffee  or  tea.  3. 
Be  sure  your  coffee  and  tea  are  fresh. 

Coffee. — Take  one  even  tablespoon  of  finely  ground 
coffee  for  each  cup  needed.  Scald  coffee  pot  and  put  your 
coffee  in  percolator.  Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  coffee 
slowly.  Close  the  pot  closely  and  stand  on  back  part  of 
stove  for  thirty  minutes. — Dr.  G.  F.  Ritchey,  New  Kings- 
ton, Pa. 

Tea. — Use  a  brown  earthen  teapot,  and  dare  to  bring 
it  to  the  table.  Put  your  dry  tea  into  this  dry  pot;  cover  it 
and  iet  It  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  pot  and  tea  are 
hot  (this  releases  the  aromatic  oil  of  the  leaves.)  Now  pour 
on  the  boiling  water,  as  much  as  you  want  tea ;  cover  it 
closely,  three  teaspoons  tea  to  two  cups  boiling  water  is 
about  the  right  proportion  of  tea  and  water  to  be  used. 
Never  boil  tea,  black  and  green.  Heat  the  leaves,  steep  in 
boiling  water,  and  keep  the  steam  in  the  pot  and  the  tea 
will  be  excellent.  Never  use  a  metal  teapot.  Russian  tea 
is  made  by  putting  a  slice,  of  lemon  in  each  cup  and  pour- 
ing over  it  the  boiling  tea. 

Iced  Tea. — The  tea  should  be  made  in  the  morning, 
very  strong,  and  not  allowed  to  steep  long.  Keep  in  the 
ice  box  till  the  meal  is  ready  and  then  put  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  cracked  ice.  Do  not  pour  the  scalding  hot  tea  on 
a  goblet  of  ice  as  many  do,  for  this  spoils  the  tea.  Iced 
coffee  is  very  nice  made  in  the  same  way. 

Grspe  Juice. — One  quart  of  grapes,  one-half  cup  water. 
Put  the  grapes  in  the  farina  boiler  with  the  water,  which 
should  be  cold.  Heat  slowlv  and  cook  at  a  low  temperature 
until  the  grapes  are  soft.  Put  the  grapes  through  the  fruit 
press.  Add  to  two  cnpfuls  of  juice  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  heat  to  just  below  boiling  point.  Do  not  let  it 
boil,  but  keep  it  at  a  temperature  of  at  least  200  degrees 

72 


Fahr.  for  one  hour.  Bottle  and  seal.  When  ready  to  use 
take  one  cup  of  syrup  to  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Drinks 
should  be  chilled  but  not  iced  for  an  invalid. 

Chocolate. — Put  two  squares  of  chocolate,  four  level 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  of  water  into 
a  saucepan.  When  it  is  melted  add  two  cups  of  water  and 
boil  five  minutes,  then  add  two  cups  of  milk.  Just  as  the 
chocolate  is  taken  from  the  fire  add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla 
flavoring.  Tour  into  cups  and  put  a  spoonful  of  whipped 
cream  on  each. 

Cocoa. — Put  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler. 
.Moisten  four  tablespoons  of  cocoa  with  a  little  cold  milk 
and  add  to  the  boiling  milk  stirring. all  the  while.  Boil  five 
minutes  and  ser\e  hot  with  whipped  cream. 

A  Summer  Draught. — The  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  tum- 
berful  of  cold  water,  pounded  sugar  to  taste,  half  a  small 
teaspoon  of  carbonate  of  soda.  Squeeze  the  juice  from  the 
lemon  ;  strain  and  add  it  to  the  water,  with  sufficient  pound- 
ed sugar  to  sweeten  the  whole  nicely.  When  well  mixed, 
put  into  the  soda,  stir  well  and  drink  while  the  mixture  is 
in  an  efferversing  state. 

An  Inexpensive  Drink. — (  )ne  cupful  pure  cider  vinegar, 
one-half  cupful  good  molasses.  Put  into  one  quart  pitcher 
of  ice  water.  A  tablespoon  of  ground  ginger  added  makes 
a  healthful  drink. 

An  Invalid  Drink. — Put  into  the  bottom  of  a  wine  glass 
two  tablespoon  I  uls  of  grape  juice,  add  to  this  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg  and  a  little  chopped  ice;  sprinkle  sugar 
over  the  top  and  serve.     This  is  often  served  in  sanitariums. 

Blackberry  Wine. — Take  ripe  blackberries,  pick  out  all 
imperfect  ones  and  press  out  the  juice  through  a  course 
linen  cloth;  to  each  quart  of  juice  add  one  quart  of  water 
in  which  is  dissolved  two  pounds  of  white  sugar;  put  into 
glass  bottles  or  stone  jugs  and  cover  the  mouths  with 
any  open  or  woven  cloth,  to  admit  air  and  keep 
out  insects,  set  in  cellar  for  six  months,  more  or 
less;  then  pour  off  carefully  from  the  lees  into  clean  bottles 
and  cork  for  use  as  wanted. 

Another. — Measure    your    berries,    after    picking    them 

73 


over,  bruise  them,  and  to  every  gallon  of  berries  add  one 
quart  of  water,  boiling  hot.  Let  the  mixture  stand  twenty- 
four  hours,  stirring  occasionally;  then  strain  off  the  liquor 
into  a  cask,  for  every  gallon  of  juice  adding  two  pounds 
of  sugar.  Cork  tight  and  let  stand  till  the  following  Oc- 
tober, when  it  will  be  ready  for  use  without  any  further 
straining  or  boiling.     . 

Lemonade. — Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  lemons,  cut 
them  in  small  pieces  and  cover  with  sugar.  Let  stand  at 
least  an  hour,  then  press  out  the  juice  the  sugar  has  ex- 
tracted. The  volatile,  aromatic  oil  of  lemons  and  oranges 
is  in  their  skins,  and  twice  as  much  lemonade  of  a  better 
quality  can  be  made  in  this  way  than  by  the  use  of  juice 
alone.  Boil  one-half  of  a  cup  of  sugar  with  one-fourth  of  a 
cup  of  water  until  it  spins  a  light  thread.  Take  from  the 
fire,  add  one  cup  of  lemon  juice  and  the  juice  and  sugar 
from  the  skins.  Add  water  and  sugar  to  taste  and  serve 
ice  cold. 

Pineapple  Lemonade. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  canned  pineapple,  one  cup  of  water,  juice  of  two  lemons. 
Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a  light  thread.  Put 
the  pineapple  through  the  fruit  press  and  add  to  the  syrup 
with  the  juice  of  the  lemons.  When  ready  to  serve,  add 
water  and  sugar,  if  needed,  to  taste.     Serve  ice  cold. 

Fruit  Punch. — Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  cne-half  cup  of 
orange  juice,  one  cupful  of  strawberry  juice,  one  cupful  of 
water,  one-half  cup  of  lemon  juice,  one  cupful  of  pineapple 
juice,  one-half  cup  of  Maraschino  cherries.  Boil  the  sugar 
and  water  to  a  syrup,  and  add  the  fruit  juices.  Let  stand 
twenty  minutes,  strain  and  chill.  Add  the  whole  cherries. 
Sweeten  or  weaken,  if  necessary,  to  taste,  and  serve  ice 
cold,  ft  will  rarely  need  reducing  with  water  unless  the 
juices  <;f  preserved  fruits  have  been  used. 

Cherry  Syrup. — Two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  two 
cupfuls  <»f  cold  water,  two  cupfuls  of  cherry  juice.  Stone 
the  cherries.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water,  add  the  cher- 
ries and  their  juice,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  put  through  the  press.     Return  to  the  fire  and 

74 


boil  until  a  thick  syrup  is  formed.  Seal  when  hot.  Serve 
with  shaved  ice.  thinning  with  cold  water  to  taste. 

Mint  Punch. —  Remove  the  leaves  from  twelve  large 
stalks  of  mint;  chop  them  very  fine;  put  them  in  a  mortar 
with  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  grind  them 
to  a  paste.  Or  you  may  rub  them  in  a  bowl  with  a  spoon! 
Boil  together  for  five  minutes  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  quart 
of  water;  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  the  mint  ;  when 
the  mixture  is  icy  cold,  freeze.  This  may  stand  four  or  five 
hours.     Serve  in  punch  glasses. 

Nasturtium  Punch. — Chop  line  twenty-four  nasturtium 
ilowers;  rub  them  with  a  little  sugar  to  a  paste.  Boil  to- 
gether a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  quart  of  water  for  five  min- 
utes; take  from  the  lire,  and  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons 
and  the  nasturtium  flowers.  Let  these  .stand  until  perfectly 
cold;  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  claret  or  grape  juice. 
Freeze  the  mixture  and  serve  in  punch  glasses.  Especially 
nice  with  mutton. 

A  nasturtium  flower  on  the  top  of  each  glass  makes  a 
very  pretty  garnish. 

Ginger  Punch. — Boil  a  pound  of  sugar  with  a  quart  of 
water;  add  the  juice  af  three  lemons  and  when  cold  add 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  the  syrup  from  the  preserved  gin- 
ger, and  a  half  cut)  of  the  ginger  chopped  very  fine.  Freeze 
and  serve  with  the  meat  course  at  dinner.  If  preserved 
ginger  is  not  to  be  had.  add  a  tablespoonful  of  ground 
Jamaica  ginger  to  the  sugar  and  water  before  they  are 
boiled,  then  add  the  chopped  candied  ginger. 


/.T 


Memorand  um 


Fruits,  Jellies,  Preserves 


Canning  and  Preserving. — The  disappointment  that  so 
many  experience  in  preserving  and  canning  fruit  can  be 
avoided,  if  care  and  knowledge  of  proper  principles  of 
science  are  observed.  The  scientific  part  consist  in  cooking 
the  fruit  to  sterilize  any  germs,  while  the  common  sense 
part  consist  in  excluding  all  outside  air.  Of  course  fruit 
as  fresh  as  possible  should  be  used,  and  such  should  be 
perfectly  sound  and  not  overripe.  Overripe  fruit  lacks  the 
fine  flavor  of  other  fruit.  Pick  the  fruit  very  carefully,  and 
if  it  is  absolutely  necessary,  rinse  it  quickly  by  placing  in 
a  colander  or  fine  wire  basket  and  dipping  in  and  out  of 
cold,  clear  water.  Drain  thoroughly.  The  flavor  in  the 
fruit  will  be  much  finer  if  it  is  not  washed.  Do  not  waste 
time  and  money  canning  poor  fruit. 

Heat  both  jars  and  covers,  and  make  sure  that  your 
jars  are  perfect  and  your  rubber  bands  new.  It  is  safer 
not  to  depend  on  rubbers  that  have  once  been  used.  Glass 
jars  are  by  far  preferable  to  tin  and  are  now  cheap  enough 
to  be  in  reach  of  all.  Canning  differs  from  presen  rng  in 
the  amount  of  sugar  used. 

While  canning  docs  not  require  the  same  length  of 
time,  all  fruit  must  be  thoroughly  cooked,  so  that  every 
portion  of  it  is  subjected  to  a  degree  of  heat  sufficient  to 
destroy  all  germs  in  the  fruit.  P>ut  overcooking  should  In- 
avoided  in  order  to  retain  the  fresh,  natural  flavor.  The 
length  of  time  required  for  canning  varies  according  to  the 
variety  and  condition  of  the  fruit,  but  do  not  have  your 
fruit  spoil  for  want  of  sufficient  cooking. 

Fruits  that  have  been  shipped  a  long  distance,  or  have 
stood  for  some  length  of  time  after  being  picked,  need 
longer  cooking  than  the  freshly   gathered. 

77 


The  most  delicate  fruits  require  fifteen  minutes,  and 
thirty  minutes  is  not  too  long  for  most  kinds. 

Sugar  is  not  considered  necessary  to  the  preservation 
of  fruit,  but  it  is  added  to  make  it  more  palatable,  to  in- 
crease the  specific  gravity  of  the  water  or  fruit  juices,  and 
therefore  by  an  additional  degree  of  heat  destroy  the  germs 
more  certainly,  and  accomplish  sterilization  of  the  fruit 
in  much  shorter  time.  The  addition  of  sugar  also  pre- 
serves the  shape  of  the  fruit,  abstracting  the  juices  and 
hardening  it,  which  prevents  it  from  becoming  soft  and 
falling  apart. 

Use  only  the  best  granulated  sugar  for  preserving 
fruits. 

To  all  juicy  fruits  like  berries,  add  the  sugar,  which 
has  been  heated  in  the  oven,  to  the  fruit  when  it  boils. 

For  peaches,  pears  and  such  fruits  as  contain  much  less 
juice,  make  a  syrup  by  dissolving  the  sugar  in  water,  a 
pint  of  sugar  to  a  pint  or  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  as 
the  fruit  seems  to  require.  Cook  the  fruit  in  this  until 
tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  straw,  but  not  long  enough 
to  lose  its  form  or  break. 

Be  sure  to  fill  the  jar  to  the  very  brim.  Then  run  the 
handle  of  a  silver  spoon  around  and  down  the  sides  to  be 
sure  all  air  is  excluded.  Wipe  the  juice  ofT  the  top  care- 
fully, adjust  the  band,  and  screw  down  tight.  Do  this  as 
quickly  as  possible,  and  when  the  jars  are  cool,  again  screw 
down  the  top,  to  make  sure  it  is  air-tight.  Never  set  jars 
in  a  draught  of  air  after  filling.  Some  housewives  turn  the 
jars  upside  down  for  several  days,  then  examine  for  leak- 
ages, and  if  perfect  put  away.  If  the  contents  of  a  jar 
begin  to  "work,"  open  at  once,  re-heat  and  can  again,  using 
a  little  more  sugar. 

Many  use  this  method  of  canning.  All  ripe,  mellow 
fruit  is  placed  at  once  in  the  jars.  These  are  then  set  in 
a  large  boiler  of  warm  water,  with  little  blocks  of  wood  or 
a  board  underneath.  Make  a  syrup  as  follows:  A  cup  of 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  fruit  for  the  tart  fruits  and  less  for  the 
sub-acid,  and  from  one  to  three  cups  of  water,  according  to 
juiciness   of  the   fruit.      Set   the   lids   on    loosely,   cover   the 

78 


boiler  closely  and  keep  the  water  boiling  from  fifteen  to 
thirty  minutes,  according  to  kind  and  quality  of  fruit.  Then 
Screw  down  the  lids  at  once  and  set  the  jars  on  a  folded 
damp  cloth,  unless  you  do  not  need  the  boiler  again  ;  in  that 
ease  you  can  let  the  jars  cool  in  the  water  after  sealing. 
Proceed  same  as  with  other  process. 

The  usual  method  of  preserving  is  to  use  equal  weights 
of  fruit  and  sugar,  and  cook  a  sufficient  length  of  time  to 
keei)  the  fruit  without  being  perfectly  air-tight. 

Preserved  fruits  are  very  rich,  and  for  economical  rea- 
sons, at  least,  most  persons  prefer  the  canned  fruits  for 
daily  use.  But  some  fruits  are  very  much  more  palatable 
when  preserved  with  a  less  amount  of  sugar.  As  a  general 
rule,  however,  cooks  living  along  the  Atlantic  sea-board 
make  their  preserves  of  a  more  cloying  sweetness  than 
those  housewives  who  live  in  the  Mississippi  Valley.  It 
seems  to  be  due  to  a  difference  to  taste,  but  wherein  this 
difference  originated  has  never  been  explained. 

Keep  the  jars  in  a  cool,  dark  closet,  where  there  is 
ventilation  from  door  and  window.  If  you  have  no  such 
closet,  enclose  each  jar  in  a  paper  bag,  which  will  effectual- 
ly exclude  the  light. — Lutheran  (  )bserver. 

Delicious  Dish  of  Peaches. — Cut  peaches  in  half,  stone 
and  sprinkle  sugar  in  the  hollows.  Rub  a  large  tablespoon 
of  butter  into  a  pint  of  Hour  sifted  with  a  teaspoon  of 
Royal  Baking  Powder  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Peat  an 
egg  very  light,  stir  it  into  a  scant  cup  of  milk,  mix  gradu- 
ally with  the  prepared  flour  beating  well  at  the  last.  Pour 
into  a  greased  baking  pan  large  enough  to  allow  the  fruit 
to  spread  out.  and  the  batter  to  be  about  an  inch  thick. 
Pake  for  a  half  hour  in  a  brisk  oven.  Serve  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

Iced  Grapes. — Dip  whole  bunches  of  selected  grapes, 
first  in  the  white  of  egg,  then  in  powdered  sugar,  sift  the 
sugar  over  them  until  all  are  thoroughly  covered.  Lay  on 
wax  paper  until  dry. 

Simple  Rule  for  Jelly. — Crush  raw  fruit  or  berries,  ami 
drain  off  the  juice.     To  this  juice  take  the  same  amount  or 

79 


j 


measure  of  sugar,  but  do  not  combine  them  at  once.  Put 
the  juice  into  a  granite  pan  and  place  over  the  fire,  mean- 
time take  the  sugar  and  put  it  in  a  dripping  pan,  and  place 
in  the  oven.  When  the  juice  has  boiled  twenty  minutes, 
take  the  sugar  hot  from  the  oven  and  put  it  into  the  fruit 
juice.  Let  the  mixture  boil  up,  just  enough  to  melt  the 
sugar.  Skim  it,  and  then  strain  into  jelly  glasses,  and  the 
arduous  task  is  done.  I  will  warrant  a  jelly  that  will  be 
firm  and  beautiful  in  color,  in  texture  and  in  taste. 

One  important  thing,  however,  I  have  not  mentioned, 
and  that  is  that  fruit  not  very  ripe  should  be  used.  A  fruit 
a  little  under  ripe  is  best,  although  I  have  made  jelly  that 
jellied  all  right  of  pretty  ripe  fruit;  still  for  one  who  wants 
an  absolute  success,  the  under  ripe  is  not  only  much  easier 
to  jelly,  but  is  better  flavored. — Lutheran  Observer. 

Preserved  Strawberries. — Select  firm  berries  and  re- 
move the  hulls.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar;  mix  with  the  berries  and 
let  them  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  long  enough  to 
moisten  the  sugar,  but  not  to  soften  berries.  Put  them  in 
a  granite  or  porcelain-lined  sauce-pan  and  boil  slowly  five 
or  ten  minutes,  or  until  the  berries  are  softened.  Do  not 
stir  them  as  that  would  break  the  berries,  and  do  not  boil 
long  enough  for  them  to  lose  their  shape.  Cook  one  pound 
of  strawberries  or  quart  only  at  a  time.  A  larger  quantity 
crushes  by  its  own  weight.  A  good  method  is  to  have  two 
saucepans  and  two  bowls,  and  leave  the  berries  after  being 
hulled  on  a  separate  dish  until  ready  for  use.  Then  put 
a  quart  at  a  time  in  a  bowl,  with  sugar  sprinkled  through 
them.  While  one  bowlful  is  being  cooked,  the  bowl  refilled 
and  the  glasses  filled  the  other  one  is  ready  for  use.  In 
this  way  no  time  is  lost.  It  is  well  to  put  strawberries  in 
glasses.  ^  One  quart  of  berries  will  fill  two  half-pint  tum- 
blers. Cover  the  top  with  paraffin.  Paraffin  can  be  ob- 
tained at  any  pharmacy.  Place  it  in  a  small  saucepan  on 
the  side  of  the  range;  it  melts  at  a  low  degree  of  heat,  and 
when  the  glass  is  filled  with  hot  preserves  wipe  the  glass 
close  to  the  fruit  to  free  it  of  syrup.  Cover  the  top  with  a 
tablespoonful   of  liquid  paraffin,  do  not  move  the  jar  until 

80 


it  has  set.  This  is  a  very  easy  and  satisfactory  way  of  seal- 
Lutheran  (  )bserver. 

Strawberry  Jam. —  For  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Mash  the  fruit  in  the  kettle,  boil  hard  for 
fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar  and  boil  for  five  min- 
utes.— Lutheran  (  )bserver. 

Apple  Butter. — Twelve  gallons  sweet  fresh  eider,  six 
gallons  apples,  twenty  pounds  sugar.  Boil  eider  until  it  can 
be  thoroughly  skimmed.  Then  add  sugar  and  boil  until 
the  eider  does  not  separate. — Mrs.  Chas.  Hetrick,  New 
Kingston,  Pa. 

Quince  Honey. — Three  pounds  sugar,  one-half  pint  of 
water,  two  cups  grated  quinces,  alum  large  as  a  pea.  Boil 
sugar  until  no  scum  rises.  Add  quince  and  boil  twenty 
minutes. 

Pineapple  Honey. — Three  pounds  granulated  sugar, 
one  pint  water,  a  small  lump  of  alum.  Boil  ten  minutes. 
Put  in  two  cups  grated  pineapple,  then  boil  ten  minutes,  or 
until  it  jellies. 

To  Preserve  Fruit  by  Cold  Process. —  Pack  fruit  in  jars 
or  a  vessel  as  closely  as  you  can  without  injuring  the  fruit. 
Then  take  one  two-ounce  package  of  compound  extract  of 
salyx  and  fourteen  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  Dissolve 
extract  of  salyx  and  sugar  in  three  and  one-half  gallons  hot 
water.  Let  cool  and  strain  through  flannel  cloth;  then  pour 
on  enough  liquid  to  cover  the  fruit.  Three  and  one-half 
gallons  of  the  liquid  will  cover  about  twelve  and  one-half 
gallons  of  fruit.  For  preserving  beans,  corn  and  pickles 
by  this  process,  see  under  "Vegetables."  For  preserving 
tomatoes  to  a  gallon  of  tomatoes  add  one-fourth  pint  of  the 
prepared  sugar  salyx  syrup.  Then  cook  ten  minutes  or 
until  well  scalded  through  the  can. — Mrs.  1 1.  A.  Cornman. 


Si 


Memorand 


um 


82 


Candies 


Home-Made  Candies. 

The  cream  which  forms  the  basis  of  much  candy  is 
not  difficult  to  make,  but  must  be  prepared  with  care,  and 
if  it  is  made  successfully,  be  sure  the  rest  of  your  candy 
will  be  good.  A  proper  quantity  of  this  fondant,  or  "cream," 
for  the  amateur  to  make  at  a  time,  is  concocted  by  using 
two  cupfuls  granulated  sugar,  a  level  saltspoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  hot  water.  After  al- 
lowing the  sugar  to  dissolve,  bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  taking- 
care  to  wipe  away  the  crystals  which  form,  as  granulation 
may  take  place.  When  a  little  of  the  mixture  dropped  in 
cold  water  will  form  into  a  ball,  the  pan  must  be  instantly 
removed  from  the  fire.  Stand  the  pan  in  cold  water  until 
the  finger  can  be  placed  in  the  mixture  without  burning. 
Then  with  a  flat  wooden  paddle,  beat  and  stir  until  the 
mass  becomes  a  creamy  consistency  and  white.  Then 
knead  like  dough,  till  soft  and  smooth.  Below  we  give  a 
few  varieties  of  candies  that  may  be  made  from  this  cream. 
Cut  fresh  marshmallows  in  babes.  Melt  again  some 
fondant,  color  it  a  delicate  pink,  violet  or  green  with  vege- 
table coloring,  flavor  with  rose,  violet  or  bitter  almonds. 
Dip  each  half  marshmallow  in  fondant  and  roll  in  grated 
cocoanut. 

For  acorn  creams,  roll  a  bit  of  fondant  in  the  shape  of 
an  acorn.  Melt  sweetened  chocolate,  dip  each  cream  in  it 
until  the  effect  n\  an  acorn  cup  is  produced. 

Strawberries  may  be  made  of  pink  fondant,  a  cord 
covered  with  crystalized  sugar  being  run  through  the 
berry  and  extending  for  the  stem.  Unless  these  arc-  to  be 
given  to  verv  small  children,  an  artificial  calyx  may  be 
added  to  make  the  effect  more  real.      Xuts  may  be  chopped 

83 


fine  and  rolled  in  the  fondant,  citron  may  be  added  to  it, 
dates  may  be  stoned,  the  centre  filled  with  the  cream  and 
the  whole  rolled  in  sugar;  layers  of  fondant  variously  col- 
ored, and  placed  one  upon  the  other,  may  be  cut  in  squares 
or  any  shape  desired.  In  fact,  the  possibilities  are  endless. 
Do  not  attempt  unless  you  are  adept,  to  make  all  your 
candy  at  once.  (  Hherwise,  you  will  not  want  to  look  at 
candy  for  months  to  come. — Lutheran  Observer. 

Nougat.— Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  large  cups 
nuts;  boil  six  tablespoonfuls  water  with  sugar,  as  in  boiled 
icing,  until  it  spins  a  thread;  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla; 
pour  on  a  large  platter  and  beat  well;  add  nut  kernels; 
cut  in  strips  one-half  inch  thick. 

Candy. — To  one  pound  confectionery  sugar,  take  the 
white  of  one  eg-g,  one  tablespoon  cold  water,  beat  light. 
Knead  to  the  substance  of  a  dough.  Flavor  with  almond. 
Roll  out  and  cut  in  squares  and  decorate  with  nuts. 

A  very  nice  candy  can  be  made  by  dividing  this  in  three 
parts.  Flavor  with  strawberry,  vanilla  and  chocolate.  Roll 
out  and  place  layer  on  the  other,  and  roll  once  lightly,  then 
cut  in  squares. — Miss   Emma  Senseman. 

Saldic  Taffy.— Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  water,  one- 
fourth  cup  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar. 
No  stirring  allowed.  Pour  on  a  buttered  pan  and  pull  when 
cold  enough. 

Taffy. — One  pint  New  Orleans  molasses,  two  civps 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar;  stir 
to  keep  from  burning;  cook  until  brittle  when  put  in  ice 
water. — Mrs.  Geo.  I.  Uhler. 

Molasses  Candy. — Three  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  water,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  tartar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Bring: 
to  a  boil,  and  when  crisp  by  testing  in  cold  water,  flavor; 
pour  out  on  a  buttered  plate  and  pull  to  whiteness  if  de- 
sired. 

Butter  Scotch. — Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  water,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Boil 
without  stirring,  until  it  hardens  on  a  spoon.  Pour  out  on 
buttered  plates  to  cool. 

84 


Ice  Cream  Candy. — Take  two  cupfuls  of  granulated 
sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  water,  and  add  one-quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  tartar  dissolved  in  a  teaspoonful  of  boil- 
ing water.  Put  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  boil  ten  min- 
utes without  stirring  it.  Drop  a  few  drops  into  a  saucer 
of  cold  water  or  on  snow.  If  it  becomes  brittle,  it  is  done; 
if  not,  boil  till  it  is.  Add  a  piece  of  butter  halt"  as  large 
as  an  egg  while  it  is  on  the  fire,  and  stir  it  in.  Pour  in t< » 
a  buttered  tin,  and  set  on  iee  or  snow  t<>  cool  enough  to 
pull  it  white.  Flavor  with  vanilla  just  before  it  is  cool 
enough  to  pull.     Work  into  strands  and  cut  into  stick-. 

Cream  Candy. — One  pound  of  white  sugar,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar.  Add  a  little  water  to  moisten 
the  sugar,  and  boil  until  brittle.  Put  in  the  extract,  then 
turn  quickly  out  on  buttered  plates.  When  cool,  pull  until 
white,  and  cut  in  squares. 

Cocoanut  Candy. — Grate  very  fine  a  sound  cocoanut, 
spread  it  on  a  dish,  and  let  it  dry  naturally  for  three  days, 
as  it  will  not  bear  the  heat  of  an  oven,  and  is  too  oily  for 
use  when  freshly  broken.  Pour  ounces  will  be  sufficient 
for  a  pound  of  sugar  for  most  tastes,  but  more  can  be  used 
at  pleasure.  To  one  pound  of  sugar,  take  one-half  pint  of 
water,  a  very  little  white  n\  v^^.  and  then  pour  over  the 
sugar;  let  it  stand  for  a  short  time,  then  place  over  a  very 
clear  fire,  and  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes;  then  sel  it  one 
side  until  the  scum  is  subsided,  clear  it  oil,  and  boil  the 
sugar  until  very  thick;  then  strew  in  the  nut,  stir  and  mix 
it  well,  and  do  not  quit  for  an  instant  until  it  is  finished. 
The  pan  should  not  be  placed  on  the  tire,  but  over  it.  as 
the  nut  is  liable  to  burn  with  too  fierce  a  heat. 

Almond  Candy. — Proceed  in  the  same  way  as  for 
cocoanut  candy,  bet  the  almonds  be  blanched  and  per- 
fectly dry,  and  (\i)  not  throw  them  into  the  sugar  until 
they  approach  the  candying  point. 

Candied  Nuts  and  Fruits. — Three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  water:  boil  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in 
water,  then  flavor  with  lemon.  It  must  not  boil  after  the 
lemon   is   put   in.      Put   a  nut   on   the  end   of  a   tine  knitting 

85 


needle,  take  out,  and  turn  on  the  needle  until  it  is  cool.  If 
the  candy  gets  cold,  set  on  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes. 
Malaga  grapes  and  oranges  quartered,  may  be  candied  in 
the  same  way. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cup- 
ful of  warm  water,  one-half  cupful  of  grated  chocolate, 
three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter.  Let  it  boil  without 
stirring  until  it  snaps  in  water. 

Ice  Cream  Candy. — Take  three  cupfuls  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  cold  water,  one-fourth  cup- 
ful vinegar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  boil  until  it  will 
harden  in  cold  water,  then  flavor  with  vanilla,  pour  into 
pans  that  have  been  buttered  well,  then  pull  until  firm  and 
white. — Mrs.  A.  R.  Longenecker. 

Creams. — Eighteen  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water;  boil  hard  four  minutes; 
flavor  and  set  dish  in  cold  water;  stir  until  it  is  sugared 
enough  to  drop  on  buttered  paper.  Any  kind  of  creams 
may  be  made  from  this — cocoanut,  peppermint,  lemon  or 
any  flavor.  If  this  cools  before  one  can  drop  it  all,  heat 
a  little  more;  or,  if  not  quite  hard  enough,  boil  a  little 
more  ;  it  does  not  spoil  easily. — Miss  Lotta  B.  Frankforter. 

Molasses  Taffy. — One  pint  molasses  (New  Orleans), 
one  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  table- 
spoon vinegar,  Boil  without  stirring  until  it  hardens  in 
water.  Add  one  teaspoon  soda.  Pour  in  buttered  tins, 
when  cold  enough  pull  until  brittle. 

Butter  Taffy. — Boil  three  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half 
cup  molasses,  one-fourth  cup  each  hot  water  and  vinegar. 
When  it  crisps  in  cold  water,  add  two  tablespoons  butter, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  three  minutes.  Cool  on  butter- 
ed pans. — Miss   Bessie  Greenwood. 

Peanut  Brittle. — Shell  roasted  peanuts  to  measure  one 
pint.  Put  two  pints  granulated  sugar  on  a  pan,  stir  over 
slow  fire.  It  will  lump,  then  gradually  melt.  When  clearly 
melted,  add  nuts  and  pour  quickly  on  buttered  tins  as  thin 
as  possible.     When  cold  break  up.— Miss  Emma  Senseman. 

Salted  Peanuts.— Take  one  pint  of  peanuts  before  they 
have  been  roasted,  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  re- 

86 


move  the  brown  skin,  spread  on  a  plate  to  dry;  take  a  lump 
of  gutter  size  of  hickorynut,  put  in  pan  and  let  melt;  then 
pour  peanuts  in  ;  set  in  hot  oven  until  they  turn  a  light 
brown,  stir  occasionally;  take  from  oven  and  sprinkle  salt 
over  them. — Mrs.  S.   F.  Tholan. 

Pennsylvania  Walnut  Fudge. — Two  cups  sugar,  one 
cup  milk,  one-half  cup  cocoa;  butter  one-half  size  of  an 
egg.  Boil  until  it  strings,  without  stirring,  then  add  one 
teaspoonful  vanilla.  Beat  until  almost  hard.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  a  greased  tin  with  black  walnut  meats  and  pour 
mixture  over  this.     Mark  off  in  squares. —  Miss  Emily  Burr. 

Fudge. — Cook  three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk  and  one 
tablespoon  butter.  When  sugar  is  melted  add  six  or  seven 
tablespoons  cocoa.  Stir  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Take 
from  fire,  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  stir  till  creamy,  pour 
on  buttered  plates,  cut  in  squares. 

Vassar  Fudge. — Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup 
of  milk,  one-half  cup  chocolate,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Boil 
fifteen  minutes,  stiring  all  the  time.  Then  remove  from 
stove  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  grain.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Candy. — Four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cake  Walter  Baker's  Chocolate 
broken  in  pieces;  one  cup  hot  water.  Boil  until  it  will 
harden  in  water;  then  beat  for  five  minutes,  pour  in  greased 
pans  ;  cut  in  squares. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — Three  pounds  brown  sugar,  one 
cake  Walter  Baker's  Chocolate,  one  cup  sweet  cream,  one 
small  bottle  vanilla,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  until  it 
crisps  in  cold  water.  Cool  on  buttered  pans  and  cut  in 
squares. — Miss  Bessie  Greenwood. 


87 


Memorand  um 


88 


Miscellaneous 


(Those    marked    with   a   star    (-■')    have   been    clipped    from 
Lutheran  (  )bserver.  | 

:::To  Remove  Tea  and  Coffee  Stains.— Soak  the  stained 
fabric  in  cold  water:  spread  out  and  pour  a  few  drops  of 
glycerine  on  each  spot.  Let  it  stand  several  hours;  then 
wash  with  cold  water  and  soap. 

"To  Remove  Chocolate  and  Cocoa  Stains. — Wash  with 
soap  in   tepid   water. 

:::To  Remove  Mildew. — Soak  in  a  weak  solution  of 
chloride  of  lime  for  several  hours.     Rinse  in  cold  water. 

Another. — Wet  the  cloth,  rub  on  a  mixture  of  soap  and 
chalk,  and  place  the  article  in  the  sun. 

*To  Remove  Iron  Rust. — Soak  the  stain  thoroughly 
with  lemon  juice;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  bleach  for  several 
hours  in  the  sun. 

Another. — Take  lemon  juice  and  salt  mixed  together, 
place  on  spot  and  lay  the  article  in  the  sun.  Repeat  if  nec- 
essary. 

"To  Remove  Fruit  Stains. — Stretch  the  fabric  contain- 
ing- the  stain  over  the  month  of  a  basin  and  pour  boiling 
water  on  the  stain.  In  cold  weather  fruit  stains  can  fre- 
quently he  removed  by  hanging  the  stained  garments  oul 
of  doors  over  night.  If  the  stain  has  been  fixed  by  time, 
soak  the  article  in  a  weak  solution  of  oxalic  acid  or  hold 
it  over  the  fumes  of  sulphur. 

:::To  Remove  Ink  Stains. — Soak  in  sour  milk.  If  a  dark 
stain  remains,  rinse  in  a  weak  solution  of  chloride  of  lime. 

Another. —  Din  the  spot  in  pure  melted  tallow,  wash 
out  the  tallow  .and  the  ink  will  also  be  removed. 

:::To  Remove  Scorch  Stains. —  Wet  the  scorched  place. 
rub  with  soap  and  bleach  in  the  sun. 

89 


*To  Remove  Vaseline  Stains. — Saturate  the  spots  with 
ether  and  lay  a  cup  over  it  to  prevent  evaporation  until  the 
stain  is  removed.    Use  the  ether  with  very  great  care. 

*To  Remove  Blood  Stains. — Soak  in  cold  salt  water; 
then  wash  in  warm  water  with  plenty  of  soap;  afterward 
boil. 

:::To  Remove  Grass  Stains. — Saturate  the  spot  thor- 
oughly with  kerosene,  then  put  in  the  washtub. 

*To  Remove  Iodine  Stains. — Wash  with  alcohol,  then 
rinse  in  soapy  water. 

To  Remove  Sewing  Machine  Oil  Stains. — Rub  with 
lard  ;  let  stand  for  several  hours,  then  wash  with  cold  water 
and  soap. 

*To  Remove  Pitch,  Wheel  Grease  and  Tar  Stains. — 
Soften  the  stains  with  lard,  then  soak  in  turpentine.  Scrape 
off  carefully  with  a  knife  all  the  loose  surface  dirt;  sponge 
clean   with  turpentine  and  rub  gently  till  dry. 

*To  Remove  Grease  Spots. — Hot  water  and  soap  gen- 
erally remove  these.  If  fixed  by  long  standing,  use  ether, 
chloroform  or  naptha.  All  three  of  these  must  be  used 
away  from  either  fire  or  artificial  light. 

Grease  spots  may  be  removed  from  any  delicate  color 
with  French  chalk,  which  is  sold  by  all  druggists.  Scrape 
this  on  the  spots  and  rub  it  in  somewhat;  then  allow  it  to 
remain  for  twenty-four  hours,  brush  off  lightly,  and  if  the 
grease  has  not  entirely  disappeared,  repeat  the  rubbing  of 
the  chalk. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots  from  Silk. — Lay  the  grease 
spot  upon  a  thick  sheet  of  blotting  or  brown  paper;  place 
another  piece  of  the  same  paper  over  the  -spot,  and  press 
a  moderately  warm  flatiron  over  it  for  a  minute  or  two, 
until  the  stain  disappears.  Rub  the  stained  part  with  a 
bit  of  soft  silk  or  flannel. 

To  Wash  Soiled  Ribbons  and  Ties.— Rub  carefully 
through  a  solution  of  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ammonia  to 
one  cupful  of  water.  If  much  soiled  put  through  a  second 
water  with  less  ammonia.  Lay  between  clean  white  cloths 
and  press  until  dry. 

90 


To  Restore  Velvet. — When   velvet   gets  crushed  from 

pressure,  hold  the  parts  over  a  basin  of  hot  water,  with  the 
lining  of  the  dress  next  to  the  water.  This  will  soon  cause 
the  crushed  part  to  assume  its  original  form. 

To  Bleach  Yellow  Linen. — Soak  in  buttermilk  two  or 
three  days.     Wash  carefully  and  lay  in  sun. 

*To  Prevent  Fading. — Wash  goods  liable  to  fade 
should  be  washed  in  a  strong  solution  of  salt,  allowing  a 
cup  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  hot  water.  While  the  water  is 
warm  put  the  material  in,  and  let  it  lie  for  a  time;  then 
take  out  and  wash  in  the  usual  way. 

*Kerosene  in  Washing. —  Kerosene  in  the  boiling  water 
whitens  clothes  safely,  especially  such  as  are  yellow  from 
lying.     Put  in  a  tablespoonful  to  each  gallon  of  suds. 

For  very  yellow  or  grimy  thing,  make  an  emulsion 
of  kerosene,  clear  lime  water  and  turpentine  in  equal  parts. 
Shake  them  together  until  creamy;  then  add  a  cupful  to 
a  boilerful  of  clothes  and  boil  for  half  an  hour. 

The  same  emulsion  is  very  good  for  very  dirty  things, 
such  as  jumpers,  overalls,  working  shirts,  children's 
trousers.  Use  it  in  conjunction  with  strong  suds,  as  hot 
as  the  hand  can  bear,  and  rub  a  little  directly  upon  dirty 
grease  spots.  Let  the  clothes  stand  the  minutes  before 
washing  out  and  be  sure  to  have  the  second  suds  and  the 
rinsing  water  as  hot  as  the  first. 

*To  Remove  Soot  Stains. — Rub  the  spots  with  dry 
cornmeal  before  sending  the  clothes  to  the  wash. 

To  Make  a  Stiff  Starch. — Tut  an  ounce  oi  gum  arabic 
(not  the  powdered)  in  a  pitcher  and  pour  on  it  one-half 
pint  boiling  water.  Let  the  mixture  remain  covered  over 
night,  and  in  the  morning  turn  it  into  a  bottle.  If  tightly 
corked,  the  solution  will  keep  for  a  long  time.  To  a  quart 
of  starch,  after  it  has  been  boiled,  add  two  tablespoons  ^\ 
the  liquid  gum  arabic;  let  the  starch  again  come  to  a  boil 
and  cook  until  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed,  then 
add  a  little  salt  to  keep  from  sticking,  ami  you  have  a 
starch  that  will  not  disappoint  you,  for  its  results  are  ex- 
tremely satisfactory.     Shirt  waists  when  starched   this  way 


have  a  clear  appearance  not  obtained  by  the  ordinary  meth- 
od of  starching,  and  keep  clean  longer. 

*To  Prevent  the  Iron  from  Sticking. — Put  a  spoonful 
of  kerosene  into  the  cold  starch. 

Washing  Fluid. — One  box  Babbit's  lye,  one  ounce  salts 
of  tartar,  one  ounce  carbonate  ammonia,  two  gallons  water, 
let  come  to  a  boil,  put  in  ingredients,  add  two  or  three 
tablespoons  borax.  Bottle  tight,  use  one-half  cup  to  a 
boiler  of  water. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Garber. 

Rosin  Soap. — Twenty-four  quarts  soft  water,  six 
pounds  tallow,  three  pounds  rosin,  two  pounds  caustic  soda, 
put  in  large  kettle,  boil  slowly  about  two  hours. — Mrs.  W. 
C.  Garber. 

*To  Clean  Gilded  Frames. — Gently  wipe  them  with  a 
fine  cotton  cloth  dipped  in  sweet  oil. 

*To  Clean  a  Greasy  Sink. — To  clean  a  greasy  sink,  a 
little  paraffin  oil,  rubbed  in  with  flannel,  will  save  trouble. 

*To  Remove  Tea  Marks  from  China. — Ordinary  tea 
marks  on  china  may  be  readily  dissolved  by  scrubbing  with 
a  soft  brush  dipped  in  salt  water  and  vinegar. 

*To  Renovate  Leather  Chairs. — Leather  chairs  and  tops 
of  writing  tables  are  renovated  by  sponging  them  lightly 
with  warm  soap-suds  and  then  rubbing  on  the  white  of  an 
egg  whipped  stiff.  Or,  if  this  seems  like  wasting  the  egg. 
rub  over  the  leather  a  mixture  of  half  a  cup  of  sweet  oil  to 
a  cupful  of  vinegar;  boil  together,  and  polish  the  leather 
with  the  useful  piece  of  old  flannel.  When  willow  chairs 
lose  their  natural  color,  it  is  said  that  a  solution  of  chlorine 
will  restore  it. 

*To  Remove  Spots  from  Leather. — Oxalic  acid,  in  weak 
solution,  is  the  best  thing  to  use  when  removing  spots  from 
leather.  Two  or  three  crystals  of  oxalic  acid  dissolved  in 
warm  water,  then  applied  with  a  bit  of  cloth  to  the  spots, 
will  do  the  work.  But  one  must  watch  closely,  and,  as 
soon  as  the  spot  disappears,  apply  clear  water  to  overcome 
the  acid,  which  is  a  powerful  bleacher.  Afterward  dry  the 
leather  with  a  clean  cloth.  This  process  applies  as  well  to 
ink  spots  that  sometimes  disfigure  the  leather  covers  of 
books.     For  tan-colored  sheepskin  covers  a  saturated  solu- 

92 


tion  may  be  used.     For  any  bright  colored  leather,  the  so- 
lution must  be  much  weaker.  * 

To  Remove  Soot  from  Carpet. — Sprinkle  heavily  with 
salt  and  then  sweep. 

To  Wash  Matting. — Wipe  ntf  with  a  cloth  wrung  from 
salt  water.    This  will  prevent  from  turning  yellow. 

To  clean  Kid  Gloves. — Dip  a  fine,  clean  soft  cloth  into  a 
little  sweet  milk,  then  rub  the  cloth  on  a  cake  of  soap,  then 
with  this  cloth  rub  the  gloves. 

To  Clean  Mica. — Clean  with  vinegar  slightly  diluted 
with  water.  If  the  mica  does  not  become  clean  immediately 
let  it  remain  in  the  vinegar  a  short  time. 

To  Clean  New  Iron  Kettles. — Boil  in  them  one  hour,  a 
good-sized  handful  of  hay.  Then  scour  with  soap  and  sand. 
Fill  again  with  clear  water  and  place  over  fire  until  water 
boils.  After  this  treatment  they  will  not  color  anything 
boiled  in  them. 

To  Clean  Stovepipe.— A  piece  of  zinc  put  on  the  live 
coals  in  the  stove  will  clean  out  the  stovepipe. 

To  Preserve  Washtubs.— When  done  washing  turn 
bottom  side  up  and  cover  bottom  with  water.  This  will 
prevent  staves  spreading  apart  at  top. 

To  purify  a  Cistern. — When  the  water  has  an  unpleas- 
ant odor  suspend  in  the  water  a  muslin  cloth  containing  one 
or  more  pounds  of  charcoal. 

To  Keep  Lemons. — Cover  with  cold  water  changing 
wrater  once  a  week. 

Plaster  Paris  and  Vinegar. — Plaster  Paris  mixed  with 
vinegar  instead  of  water  will  not  set  for  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes. 

A  Mosquito  Remedy. — Take  a  piece  of  paper  rolled 
around  a  lead  pencil  to  form  a  case  and  fill  this  with  very 
dry  Persian  insect  powder,  putting  in  a  little  at  a  time  and 
pressing  it  down  well  with  a  pencil.  This  cartridge  may  be 
set  in  a  cup  of  sand  to  hold  it  erect.  An  hour  before  going 
to  bed  close  the  room  and  burn  one  of  these  cartridges. 
(  )ne  will  answer  for  a  small  room,  but  take  two  for  a  large 
room.     This  will  effectually  dispose  of  the  mosquitoes. 

To  Toughen  Lamp  Chimneys. — Place  the  chimney   in 

93 


a  pot  of  cold  water,  to  which  some  salt  has  been  added. 
Boil  the  water  well  and  then  cool  slowly.  Glass  treated 
thus  will  withstand  a  sudden  change  of  temperature. 

To  Remove  a  Glass  Stopper.  —  1  leat  the  neck  of  the 
bottle  a  few  seconds  with  a  lighted  match. 

Canned  Fruit. — Canned  fruit  is  improved  by  being 
opened  an  hour  or  two  before  being  used.  This  restores 
the  oxygen  to  the  fruit. 

To  Preserve  Cider. — Allow  it  to  work  until  it  has 
reached  the  state  most  desirable  to  the  taste,  then  add  one 
and  one-half  tumblers  iA  grated  horseradish  to  each  barrel 
and  shake  up  well.  This  prevents  further  fermentation. 
After  remaining  a  few  weeks,  rack  ^\(  and  bung  up  closely 
in  clean  casks. 


WHAT  HOUSEKEEPERS  SHOULD  REMEMBER. 


That  cold  rain  water  and  soap  will  remove  machine 
grease  from   washable  fabrics. 

That  fish  may  be  scaled  much  easier  by  first  dipping 
them  into  boiling  water  for  a  minute. 

That  fresh  meat,  beginning  to  sour,  will  sweeten  if 
placed  out  of  doors  in  the  cool  air  oxer  night. 

That  milk  which  has  changed  may  be  sweetened  or 
rendered  fit  for  use  again  by  stirring  in  a  little  soda. 

That  boiling  starch  is  much  improved  by  the  addition 
n\  sperm  or  salt,  or  both,  or  a  little  gum  arabic  dissolved. 

That    a    tablespoonful    of    turpentine,    boiled    with    your 
white  clothes,  will  greatly  aid  in  the  whitening  process. 

That  kerosene  will  soften  boots  and  shoes  that  have 
been  hardened  by  water,  and  will  render  them  as  pliable  as 
new. 

That  thoroughly  wetting  the  hair  once  or  twice  with  a 
solution  of  salt  and  water  will  keep  it  from  falling  out. 

That  salt  fish  are  quickest  ami  best  freshened  by  soak- 
in  sour  milk. 

'J Tat  one  teaspoon fnl  of  ammonia  to  a  teacup  of  water 

94 


applied  with  a  rag  will  clean  silver  or  gold  jewelry  p 

fcctly. 

That  salt  will  curdle  new  milk,  hence  in  preparing  por- 
ridge, gravies,  etc.,  sail  should  not  be  added  until  the  dish 
is  prepared. 

That  paint  stains  that  are  dry  and  old  may  be  removed 
from  cotton  or  woolen  goods  with  chloroform,  h  is  a  good 
plan  to  first  cover  the  spot  with  olive  oil  <>r  butter. 

That  clear  boiling  water  will  remove  tea  stains;  pour 
the  water  through  the  stain  and  thus  prevent  its  spread- 
ing over  the   fabric. 

That  charcoal  is  recommended  as  an  absorber  of  g; 
in  the  milk  room  where  foul  gases  are  present.     It  should 
be  freshly  powdered  and  kepi  there  continually,  especially 

in   hot  weather,   when    unwholesome   odors  are   most   liable 
to  infect  milk. 

That  by  applying  kerosene  with  a  rag  when  yon  are 
about  to  put  your  stoves  away  for  the  summer,  will  pre- 
vent them  from  rusting.    Treat  your  farming  implements  in 

the  same  way  before-  you   lay  them   aside  in  the   fall. 

That  a  teaspoonful  of  borax  put  in  the  last  water  in 
which  clothes  are  rinsed,  will  whiten  them  surprisingly. 
Pound  the  borax  so  that  it  will  dissolve  easily.  This 
especially  good  to  remove  the  yellow  that  time  gives  to 
white  garments  that  have  been  laid  aside  for  two  or  three 
years. 

That  a  good  agency  for  keeping  the  air  of  the  cellar 
sweet  and  wholesome,  is  whitewash  made  of  good  white 
lime  and  water  only.  The  addition  of  glue  or  size,  or  any- 
thing of  this  class,  is  only  a  damage  by  furnishing  organic 
matter  to  speedily  putrify.  The  use  of  lime  in  whitewash 
is  not  simply  to  give  a  white  color,  but  it  greatly  prom* 
the  complete  oxidation  of  effluvia  in  the  cellar  air.  Any 
vapors  that  contain  combined  nitrogen  in  the  un oxidized 
form  contribute  powerfully  to  the  development  of  dis< 
germs. 

95 


All  Good  Housekeepers  Should  Know  Why  Some  Things 

Are  Done. 

Why  do  you  take  milk  in  your  tea?  Most  persons 
would  answer,  because  they  like  it  that  way.  But  the 
scientists  have  found  a  deeper  reason  placing  the  custom 
on  purely  scientific  grounds,  says  a  writer  in  the  New 
York  Press.     These  learned  ones  discourse  as  follows: 

We  use  sugar  in  our  tea  to  prevent  injury  to  the 
coatings  of  our  stomachs.  Whenever  tannic  acid  and  al- 
bumen meet,  they  fall  desperately  in  love  with  each  other, 
get  married  and  live  together  ever  afterwards  as  tannat  of 
albumen,  or  leather.  Now,  there  is  tannic  acid  in  tea  and 
a  lot  of  albumen  in  the  coating  of  the  stomach.  The  tannic 
acid  weds  as  much  of  this  as  is  allowed  by  the  laws  of 
chemistry  and  so  far  injures  the  stomach. 

But  milk  also  contains  albumen.  When  milk  is  added 
to  tea,  therefore,  the  molecules  of  tannic  acid  select  their 
albumen  partners  from  it,  and  as  a  divorce  is  unknown  to 
tannate  of  albumen  the  albumen  of  the  stomach  remains 
single,  and  so  the  lining  of  the  stomach  is  uninjured. 

Now,  you  may  imagine  that  when  you  mix  a  salad 
dressing  you  put  vinegar  in  because  it  tastes  better  made 
that  way,  but  you  are  wrong  again.  It  is  for  a  chemical 
reason,  which  is  as  follows : 

Raw  vegetables  are  easily  enough  digested  by  cows  and 
horses,  but  with  difficulty  by  the  human  stomach,  because 
they  contain  that  hard,  fibrous  substance,  cellulose.  But 
acids  dissolve  cellulose,  and  vinegar  is  an  acid.  That  is 
why  we  take  it  with  salad  and  cabbage,  and  doubtless  that 
is  why  it  tastes  so  well,  for  the  palate  is  an  excellent  judge 
of  what  is  good  for  the  stomach.  Oil  is  added  for  the  very 
good  reason  that  it  protects  the  lining  of  the  stomach  from 
the  action  of  acid  in  the  vinegar. 

Why  do  we  take  butter  on  bread?  Partly  because 
wheaten  flour  does  not  contain  enough  fat  and  partly  be- 
cause butter  contains  a  trifling  quantity  of  substances  called 
''extractives,"  which  in  some  unknown  way  stimulate  the 
appetite  and  aid  digestion. 

96 


\\  hy  do  we  take  pepper,  mustard  and  spices?  Because 
they  tickk-  the  glands  of  the  stomach  and  make  them  work 
Consequently  they  produce  an  abundant  supply  of  digestive 
jmces.  The)  also  stir  up  the  liver,  and  a  stirring  up  of  this 
organ  is  an  important  thing  for  people  who  live  sedentary 
lives. 


::A  Reliable  Baking  Powder.— Mam  housewiv< 
ject  to  usm--  the  baking  powder  on  the  market,  owing  to 
the  possibility  of  adulteration.  Will  such  try  the  following 
formula?  Sift  three  times  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  baking  soda,  and  half  a  pound  of 
cream  tartar.     Store  in  an  airtight  can. 

:::To  Keep  Tinware  from  Rusting.— If  new  tinware  is 
rubbed  over  with  fresh  lard  thoroughly  heated  in  the  oven 
before  it  is  used,  it  will  never  rusl  afterward,  no  matter 
how  much  it  is  put  in  water.  For  stained  tinware  borax 
produces  the  best  results.  If  the  teapot  or  coffepol  is  dis- 
colored on  the  inside,  lx.il  it  in  a  strong  solution  of  borax 
for  a  short  time  and  all  its  brightness  will  return. 

:::To  disinfect  Water.— In   traveling,   when   it   is  im: 
sible  to  gel   boiled  or  filtered  water,  the   juice  of  a   lemon 
will  do  quite  as  well.     Squeeze  a  little  into  a  -lass  of  water, 
let  it  stand  for  a  few  moments,  and  the  water  will  he  thor- 
oughly disinfected. 

:::A  Good  Furniture  Glue.— A  good  furniture  -hie  that 
dees  not  harden  ami  which  has  long  been  in  use  in  the 
family  from  which  the  recipe  is  got,  i>  easily  made.  Dis- 
solve five  cents'  worth  of  gelatine  in  five  cents'  worth  acetic 
acid  and  bottle. 

::Worth  Trying. — A  new  enameled  or  agate  ware  kitch- 
en vessel  should  he  tilled  with  clean  water  ami  placed  over 
a  hot  fire.  Just  when  the  water  begins  to  boil  drop  into  it 
a  teaspoonful  of  borax  and  a  lemon  cut  in  half.  Let  the 
water  boil  rapidly  for  ten  minutes,  then  remove  the  ves- 
sel, and  (\n  not  empty  it  until  quite  cool.  It  is  said  this  is 
the  best  annealing  process  for  such  wares,  and  that  it  will 
prevent  the  enamel  lining  from  chipping,  which  is  the  only 
fault  that  can  be  found  in   these  article-. 

97 


-Simple  Method  of  Sterilizing  Milk. — If  one  cannot 
procure  bottles,  or  the  proper  sterilizing  apparatus,  which 
cost  about  two  dollars,  put  the  quantity  of  food  to  be  used 
in  twenty-four  hours  into  the  double  boiler,  and  let  it  re- 
main for  ten  minutes  after  the  water  in  the  outside  com- 
partment has  boiled.  Cover  during  the  process.  Pour  the 
milk  into  a  self-sealing  jar  and  stop  the  mouth  with  a  plug 
of  cotton  wool.  Keep  the  jar  in  the  ice-chest,  and  do  not 
leave  the  plug  out  after  removing  part  of  the  contents. 

DOMESTIC  EMERGENCIES. 


The  suggestions  which  follow  are  confined  to  simple 
measures  which  do  not  require  the  use  of  drugs.  They 
mainly  touch  upon  emergencies  which  arise  in  the  house- 
hold at  a  time  or  when  medical  assistance  cannot  be  imme- 
diately procured.  In  all  emergencies  the  first  thing  to  do 
is  to  send  for  a  physician. 

Fever. — Undress  the  person  and  put  him  to  bed.  Do 
not  cover  up  too  warm  ;  he  will  be  more  comfortable  with 
a  moderate  amount  of  covering.  Give  cooling  drinks ; 
nothing  to  eat ;  except  milk.  Bathing  with  Pond's  Extract 
will  give  relief. 

Colic  or  Cholera  Morbus. — Apply  heat  in  the  form  of 
hot  water  bags,  or  bottles,  hot  plates  and  mustard  plaster 
over  the  seat  of  pain.     Hot  baths  are  sometimes  useful. 

Diarrhoea — Dystentery. — For  a  simple  diarrhoea,  gin- 
ger tea,  peppermint  or  other  warm  drink  will  usually  bring 
relief.  A  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  for  an  adult,  or  tea- 
spoonful  for  a  child,  will  relieve  irritation.  For  dysentery, 
which  follows  diarrhoea,  rest  in  bed,  hot  compresses,  or 
mustard  plasters  applied  to  abdomen  and  soles  of  feet,  will 
bring  relief. 

Vomiting. — Patient  should  always  lie  down.  Give 
large  amounts  of  hot  water,  as  hot  as  can  be  taken.  Or 
small  bits  of  ice  held  in  mouth  or  swallowed,  or  a  lump  of 
ice  against  the  pit  of  the  stomach,  will  sometimes  bring 
relief.  When  other  means  fail,  apply  a  mustard  plaster  to 
the  pit  of  the  stomach. 

98 


Hiccough.— In  severe  attacks  apply  mustard  plasters 
over  the  stomach.  Hot  vinegar,  brandy  or  whiskey  applied 
in  the  same  manner  will  sometimes  bring  relief  Let  the 
patient  draw  a  deep  breath  and  hold  it  as  long  as  possible 

Angina  Pectoris.— Apply  cold  over  the  region  of  the 
heart.    Hot  applications,  such  as  hot  water  bags,  hot  cloths 
and  mustard  plaster  may  be  used  where  cold  applical 
tail.     Inhale  amyl  nitrate. 

t  Asthma.— Susceptible  persons  should  keep  a  supply  of 
suitable  burning  or  inhaling  material  (asthma  cigarettes! 
for  immediate  use.  If  such  are  not  at  hand,  saturate  a  piece 
of  blotting  paper  with  a  strong  solution  of  saltpeter  dry 
and  ignite;  let  the  patient  inhale  the  fumes.  If  no  other 
means  are  at  hand,  let  the  person  attacked  engage  in  some 
diversion,  such  as  smoking  a  cigar  or  pipe,  reading  a  book 
or  paper,  writing,  etc. 

Croup.— In  sudden  attacks  the  playing  with  a  toy  or 
listening  to  a  story  may  cause  symptoms  to  disappear. 
Keep  the  room  warm  and  have  water  boiling  jn  the  room 
in  such  a  way  that  the  steam  will  reach  the  sufferer.  \,»i.lv 
Hannels  wrung  Qut  in  hot  water  to  the  throat  and  cover 
with  some  waterproof  material.  Use  mustard  plaster  on 
the  soles  of  the  feet  and  chest  (for  a  few  minutes  only). 
Apply  hot  toot  baths;  if  no  relief,  try  cold.  [n  membran- 
eous croup,  slack  lime  in  the  room,  allowing  the  patient  to 
inhale.  Never  neglect  to  summon  a  physician. 
t  Hernia-Strangulation.— Place  the  patient  on  his  back 
in  bed;  elevate  the  foot  of  the  bed  about  twelve-  inches' 
bend  the  legs  back  toward  the  abdomen.  Apply  to  the 
hernia  towels  or  cloths  wrung  out  in  hot  water-"  if  th 
do  not  bring  relief,  apple  cold. 

Cramps.— Bathe  the   part   in   water  as   hot   as   can  be 
borne;  apply  mustard  plaster  to  the  part  affected,  and  to  the 

extremities. 

_      Suppression  of  Urine.—  \pplv  hot  cloths  over  bladder; 

give  warm  sitz  bath.  Walking  over  a  cold  wet  tloor  or 
dashing  cold  water  on  the  legs  and  thighs  will  often  bring 
relief.  & 

99 


THIS  BOOK 

was  printed  on  the  press  of  the 

ORPHANS'  INDUSTRIAL  SCHOOL 

Tressler  Orphans'  Home, 

Loysville,  Pa. 

1907 

Your  Patronage  is  Solicited 


>»®®®®«®«SrS®«®®«®«®®«©i 


IOO 


Memorand 


um 


*ot 


Memorandum 


102 


Memorandum 


toj 


Memorand  um 


104 


Memorandum 


!<>5 


Memorand 


um 


106 


Memorand 


um 


"<r 


Memorandum 


1 08 


Memorandum 


109 


OCT  as  1905 


Memorandum 


TO 


