MAJESTIC   RANGE 

CATALOGUE 


AND 


COOK  BOOK. 


HARPER,  REYNQLDS  &  CO., 

LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 


INDEX. 


Biscuits,  Kolls,  Tea  Cakes,  etc - Page  25 

HiVad  Making .   15 

Cakes : .39 

Circulating  Boiler 99 

C.»ffee,  Tea,  etc 93 

Delicious  Desserts 55 

Dumplings 54 

Ki;.<rs  75 

Finish  of  Majestic  Ranges 7 

Fish 73 

Came 70 

( ins  Ranges _ , 82 

Icing  for  Cake '  49 

Improved  Water  Heater  for  open  Reservoir 12 

Introduction 5 

Material 10 

Majestic  Combination  Revolving  Broiler  and  Waffle-iron 56 

Majestic  Laundry  Stove  No.  1 60 

Majestic  Charcoal  Boiler 77 

Majestic  Gas  Range  A Page  83      Majestic  Range  No.  48 38 

"       B 83                            '        No.  49 40 

"       C 84                           '        No.  50 42 

"       D 85                            '        No.  51 44 

Majestic  Range  No.  37 14                           '        No.  52 46 

No.  38 16                            '        No.  53 48 

No.  39 18                            '        No.  54 50 

No.  40 20                           '        No.  55 62 

No.  41 22                            '        No.  56 65 

No.  42 24                            '        No.  57 69 

No.  43 26                            ••      No.  58 72 

No.  44 28                            "      No.  59 76 

No.  45 32      Majestic  Range  A 96 

No.  46 34                           '•        B 97 

No.  47 36                            "        C 98 

Meats - 57 

New  Regulating  Dampers 99 

Note— Majestic  Ranges  A,  B,  C .'.' 9 

Our  New  Grate 

Our  New  Pin  Extension  Water  Front 13 

Oysters 89 

Pastry 51 

Poultry 66 

Puddings 91 

Soups 86 

To  our  Patrons 6 

Testimonials 9 

AVhat  People  Should  Know 95 

Vegetables....  79 


"MAJESTIC" 

WROUGHT  AND  MALLEABLE  IRON 

Wood  and  Coal  Ranges, 

FOR  HOTELS,  RESTAURANTS  AND  FAMILIES. 


WROUGHT  AND  MALLEABLE  IRON 

Gas  Ranges,         Charcoal  Broilers, 

Steam  Tables,        Laundry  Stoves, 


AND 


The  Greatest  Water  Heater  on  Earth, 

ALL   OF    WHICH    ARE   THE   VERY    BEST    EVER 
OFFERED    TO    THE    PUBLIC. 


FOR  SALE  BY  GOOD  DEALERS  EVERYWHERE. 


MANUFACTURED  BY 

MAJESTIC   MANUFACTURING    CO 

2004   TO    2014    MORGAN    STREET, 
ST.  LOUIS,  MO. 


Oh,  better,  no  doubt,  is  a  dinner  of  herbs, 

When  season'd  by  love,  which  no  rancor  disturbs; 

But  if,  out  of  humor,  and  hungry,  alone, 

A  man  should  sit  down  to  a  dinner,  each  one 

Of  the  dishes  of  which  the  cook  chooses  to  spoil 

On  a  horrible  stove,  with  worry  and  toil, 

The  chances  are  ten  against  one,  we  must  own, 

He  gets  up  as  ill- tern per'd  as  when  he  sat  down. 

Indigestion,  that  conscience  of  every  bad  stomach, 

Which  relentlessly  gnaws  and  pursues  him  with  some  ache 

And  trouble  remorseless,  and  makes  him  heart  siek, 

Can  be  only  avoided  by  the  use  of  a  '-Majestic." 


INTRODUCTION. 


In  placing  this  book  before  the  public,  we  do  not  claim  originality, 
the  recipes  being  largely  borrowed  from  ''Practical  Housekeeping.'" 
They  have  been  carefully  arranged  with  the  view  to  being  made  readily, 
appetizingly  and  economically. 

Bad  cooking  is  waste  of  money  and  loss  of  comfort.  Thousands  of 
people  are  deprived  of  half  the  actual  nutriment  of  their  food  because 
of  bad  cooking  and  the  absence  of  means  to  render  it  palatable  and 
digestible.  With  the  aid  of  these  recipes,  and  the  food  cooked  in  the 
Majestic  Range,  much  discomfort  may  be  saved. 

One  of  the  essentials  to  good  cooking  is  to  use  the  very  best  cooking 
apparatus.  There  is  no  economy  in  buying  an  inferior  article ;  get  the 
best,  and  let  the  economy  be  shown  in  the  way  they  are  used.  A  few  dol- 
lars additional  cost  ought  not  to  deter  people  who  have  the  health  of 
their  families  at  heart  from  procuring  the  necessaries  of  life. 

There  is  no  article  which  enters  more  largely  into  our  everyday  life 
than  the  cooking  range,  and  the  greatest  care  should  be  taken  to  discrim- 
inate against  those  of  inferior  make;  which  may  be  avoided  by  using 
none  but  the  MAJESTIC,  which  is  made  of  the  best  selected  material. 

It  is  becoming  fashionable  to  economize,  and  housekeepers  are  really 
finding  it  a  pleasant  pastime  to  search  out  and  stop  waste  in  household 
expense,  and  to  exercise  the  thousand  little  economies  which  thoughtful 
and  careful  women  understand  so  readily  and  practice  with  such  grace. 

Every  young  housekeeper  must  begin  at  the  beginning,  and  blunder 
into  a  knowledge  of  the  practical  duties  of  a  household,  wasting  time, 
temper  and  money  in  mistakes. 

With  the  simple  instructions  in  this  pamphlet,  we  hope  that  such 
blunders  and  mistakes  will  not  occur. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK, 


TO  OUR  PATRONS. 

We  present  this,  our  latest  Majestic  Range  Illustrated  Catalogue 
and  Cook-Book,  with  our  compliments. 

Our  esteemed  and  very  liberal  friends  will  accept  our  thanks  for 
their  zeal  and  earnest  co-operation  in  aiding  and  assisting  in  the  intro- 
duction, and  placing  in  the  homes  of  appreciative  people,  such  a  vast 
number  of  our  Majestic  Ranges;  and  we  confidently  anticipate,  with 
their  continued  good- will,  in  the  year  1893  to  still  very  largely  increase 
the  sales.  Never  before  in  the  experience  of  business  has  such  a 
phenomenal  trade  in  so  short  a  time  been  built  up.  It  was  our  aim  from 
the  inception  of  this  enterprise,  to  make  none  but  the  best,  and  not  to 
take  from  but  to  add  to  the  value  and  efficiency  of  our  goods,  knowing 
that  we  and  our  customers  would  profit  thereby. 

We  needed  your  co-operation  and  received  it;  and  in  return  we  add  to 
your  stock  of  wealth,  the  most  complete  line  of  Majestic  malleable  and 
steel  ranges  ever  placed  before  a  discriminating  people.  The  entire  line  is 
new  and  complete,  with  increased  size  of  ovens ;  improved  pin  extension 
waterfronts  for  pressure  boilers  or  open  tanks;  new  open  water  heater, 
connecting  with  oblong  copper  reservoir,  doing  away  with  the  old  style  of 
pipe  connections,  which  fill  with  lime  incrustations  and  are  so  liable  to 
burst  by  freezing;  improved  fire  linings;  enlarged  lower  warming  ovens; 
new  gravity  oven  door  handles;  new  process  for  riveting  (not  bolting) 
malleable  top  frames  to  steel  body;  new  and  complete  line  of  Hotel 
Ranges  in  all  sizes;  new  copper-lined  Steam  Tables  and  Carving  Tables; 
full  line  of  Charcoal  Broilers;  our  Combination  Broiler  and  Waffle  Irons; 
Laundry  Stoves  for  families;  and  this  our  new  and  exquisite  one-hundred- 
page  Illustrated  Cook  Book,  which  will  accompany  every  range  sold. 
To  these  betterments  we  have  added  a  little  more  nickel  and  polish,  not 
sufficient,  however,  to  materially  increase  the  labor  of  the  user  or  to 
injure  the  sale  of  the  range. 

We  feel  that  these  changes  and  improvements,  while  costing  us 
much  money,  will  greatly  facilitate  sales  and  add  popularity  to  the  al- 
ready popular  "Majestic." 

Anticipating  your  every  want,  and  looking  forward  to  the  time  when 
the  demand  will  be  only  for  "The  Majestic,'' 

We  are,  as  ever,  yours  truly, 

MAJESTIC  MANUFACTURING  CO. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  EVERYTHING—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK, 


FINISH   OF  MAJESTIC   RANGES. 

All  Majestic  Ranges  in  ''family  sizes"  are  finished  in  the  sarne 
artistic  manner,  and  in  such  exquisite  taste,  as  to  please  the  most  fas- 
tidious. We  have  found  that  the  sensible,  practical,  painstaking  housewife 
is  not  enamored  of  too  much  nickel-plate  and  polish,  knowing  that 
everything  added  in  excess  of  what  is  necessary  for  completeness  only 

adds  to  the  labor  of  herself  or  kitchen-maid.     The  nickel  adornments  on 

i 

the  Majestic  are  placed  where  they  show  to  the  best  advantage,  we  keep- 
ing in  mind  in  the  placing  the  now  all-important  question — how  to  save 
and  economize  labor.  As  excessive  ornamentation  adds  to  the  price 
without  increasing  the  efficiency,  we  determined  to  finish  the  Majestic  in 
the  highest  art,  and  are  receiving  our  reward  in  praises  and  thanks  from 
multitudes  of  esteemed  patrons  from  all  over  this  broad  land. 

FINISH. — The  body  of  range  and  shelf,  gloss  black;  the  top  and 
malleable  parts,  dark  luster  polish;  the  bands  and  shelf  brackets,  pol- 
ished and  buffed;  protecting  bar  and  brackets,  name  and  closet  door 
plates,  shelf  corner  irons,  number  plate,  all  door  knobs  and  handles, 
towel  bar  and  shaker  crank,  are  nickel  plated  and  polished. 

Some  may  say  that  even  this  is  in  excess  of  the  demands  of  economic 
purchasers,  but  we  justify  the  outlay  in  the  knowledge  that  the  masses 
are  delighted,  feeling  that  they  are  spending  their  money  for  an  honest 
working  range — not  for  an  overdressed  parlor  ornament. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  CONTRAST—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


OUR  NEW  GRATE. 

In  the  prefection  of  this  grate,  we  claim  that  the  highest  degree  of 
mechanism  has  been  attained'  It  is  distinct  from  and  preferable  to  all 
other  grates,  in  this,  that  it  is  the  only  one  that  operates  equally  well 
with  either  hard  coal,  soft  coal  or  wood. 

It  is  so  constructed  that  a  quarter  turn  to  the  right  reverses  and 
changes  from  coal  to  wood,  with  oval  surface,  having  two  rows  of  half- 
inch  holes  running  lengthwise.  It  is  held  in  this  position  by  the  grate 
lock  on  front  of  housing. 


Diagonal  Gra'e  for  Hard  or  Soft  Coal.  Diagonal  Grate  for  Wood. 

Each  grate  revolves  from  its  center,  and  a  slight  motion  with  shaker 
crank  removes  all  ashes  and  clinker  without  dumping  the  burning  fuel. 
The  gear  controlling  this  motion  is  two  small  cogs  that  mesh  together  on 
the  outside  of  the  fire-box,  covered  by  housing,  preventing  the  ashes  from 
clogging. 

The  Led  plate  in  which  the  grate  rest  is  fingered  on  both  sides,  and 
the  grates  when  used  for  coal  have  large  opening,  insuring  free  and  per- 
leet  combustion.  The  entire  construction  is  simple,  durable  and  effective 
and  for  which  we  have  our  application  on  file  for  patent. 

'•  MAJESTIC"— IN  CONSTRUCTION—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


TESTIflONIALS. 

Thousands  of  Majestic  Ranges  are  now  in  the  homes  of 
as  many  honest  purchasers,  each  of  whom  would  gladly 
give  us  permission  to  sign  their  names  to  any  kind  of  testi- 
monial we  might  see  proper  to  write ;  but  we  feel  that  the  re- 
cipes for  good  and  wholesome  food  are  of  far  greater  value 
to  our  friends  than  to  fill  this  book  with  recommendations. 
T\>  suggest  that  you  see  your  neighbors;  if  they  do  not  pos- 
sess a  "  Majestic  "  advise  them  to  buy  one  at  once  ;  and  after 
a  trial  exchange  congratulations,  which  will  be  a  recom- 
mendation to  other  neighbors  and  friends.  Remember, 
that  each  and  every  "Majestic"  is  guaranteed  to  work  to 
perfection. 


NOTE. — On  the  three  last  pages  of  this  book  will  be 
found  Majestic  Range  cuts  lettered  A,  B  and  C  respectively. 
They  are  only  designed  to  show  attachments  that  can  be 
connected  with  any  family  range  on  preceding  pages.  In 
ordering  please  be  governed  by  the  number  on  range, 
and  from  ranges  A,  B  or  C  select  such  extra  attachments 
as  may  be  desired ;  if  Pressure  Boiler  or  Charcoal  Broiler, 
state  which  end  of  range  to  be  connected,  right  or  left. 
The  price  on  hotel  ranges  includes  double  mantel  shelf. 
.Our  open  reservoir  as  shown  on  family  sixes  cannot  be 
connected  with  either  55,  56,  57,  58  or  59. 

''MAJESTIC"— IN  SENSITIVENESS  TO  HEAT— "  MAJESTIC." 


10  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MATERIAL. 

The  life  of  a  range  depends  on  quality  more  than  on  the 
weight  of  material.  A  range  made  of  cast  and  wrought  iron 
is  heavier,  but  on  account  of  its  inferior  character  will  not 
last  half  so  long,  as  one  made  of  malleable  iron  and  wrought 
steel  weighing  much  less.  It  is  a  well  established  fact,  that 
ranges  made  of  malleable  and  wrought  steel  and  best  gray 
iron  are  in  every  way  superior  to  ranges  made  of  wrought 
and  cast  iron,  or  of  cast  iron  Avholly.  Few  people  under- 
stand the  process  of  making  malleable  or  know  the  enormous 
expense  connected  with  its  manufacture  for  range  work,  nor 
have  we  the  space  to  go  into  a  detailed  statement.  Suffice 
to  say.  years  in  time  and  very  large  sums  of  money  have 
been  spent  in  bringing  it  up  to  its  present  high  state  of 
perfection. 

Majestic  Eanges  are  made  of  material  especially  manu- 
factured for  the  purpose.  The  steel  is  cold  rolled,  thor- 
oughly annealed  and  double  stretched,  giving  a  smooth  and 
level  surface:  the  parts  in  malleable  iron  are  fully  decarbon- 
ized, making  them  strong,  durable,  and  equal  in  tensile 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  ALL  THINGS—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  11 

strength  to  that  of  wrought  iron — they  cannot  be  broken  by 
rough  usage;  the  gray  iron  is  made  of  the  best  quality  of 
pig,  such  as  will  stand  the  greatest  amount  of  lire  service. 

In  our  family  size  ranges  the  parts  in  malleable  are  as 
follows :  Oven  doors  and  frames,  warming  closet  doors  and 
frames,  ash  pan  frames,  top  frames,  fire  doors  and  frames,  flue 
and  clean-out  frames,  back  flue  collars,  shelf  corner  irons,  door 
stakes,  latch  and  latch  catches,  dampers  and  frames,  damper 
rods,  hooks,  lugs,  oven  buttons,  door  handles  and  number 
plates. 

In  hotel  ranges  the  parts  in  malleable  are :  Oven  doors 
and  frames,  oven  door  stakes,  shoes,  door  handles  and  catches, 
ash  pan  frames,  warming  closet  doors  and  frames,  flue  and 
clean-out  doors  and  frames,  shaker,  cranks  and  lugs.  The 
parts  in  steel:  For  range  body,  No.  14;  oven  body.  No.  14; 
oven  bottom,  No.  10.  In  the  largest  sizes,  two  numbers 
heavier. 

With  such  material,  and  constructed  as  they  are. 
Majestic  Kanges  will  stand  the  test  of  years  of  hard  usage 
without  a  break  or  flaw. 


MAJESTIC"— IN   UNIFORMITY— ••  MAJESTIC." 


12  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

IMPROVED    WATER     HEATER    FOR    OPEN 

RESERVOIR. 

t> 

People  who  have  used  open  reservoirs  with  water  back  and  pipe 
connections  are  familiar  with  the  annoyances  occasioned  by  the  filling 
and  burning  out  and  free/.ing  and  bursting  of  such  connections;  but  they 
have  not  given  tin-  matter  thought  sufficient  to  understand  the  cause. 

•Water  contains  more  or  less  mineral  and  vegetable  matter,  and  when 
heaiedto  above  212  degrees  such  matter  is  left  as  a  deposit  in  pipes  or 
water  heater,  which  gradually  fills  the  entire  space,  and  there  being  no 
way  of  cleaning  the>e  parr-  burn  out. 

Should  the  water  freeze  in  these  connections,  the  vent  from  heater  to 
re.-crvoir  is  cut  off.  the  result  being  the  bursting  or  explosion  of  water 
back,  sometimes  with  force  sufficient  to  wreck  the  entire  apparatus;  in 
fact,  there  are  instances  where  by  these  explosions  people  have  been 
killed. 

With  our  new  water  connection  as  shown  on  this  page,  these  dan- 
gerous complications  are  jj^&^  fully  overcome,  as  by  its 
open  connection  with  |j|^Jf|^^^f*k|&  reservoir  it  can  readily 
be  cleaned ;  and  there  being  a  free  open  outlet 
from  heater  to  reservoir  -JP  renders  it  absolutely  safe 
from  explosion  by  freezing. 

This  improvement  is  of  such  importance  to  purchasers  that  they 
should  examine  carefully  any  cooking  apparatus  with  reservoir  connec- 
before  buying;  an  abundance  of  hot  water  and  absolute  safety 
should  be  the  recommending  feature. 


"  MAJESTIC"— IN  SEASON—-  MAJESTIC.' 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


OUR  NEW  PIN  EXTENSION  WATER  FRONT. 

For  years  the  ever-present  and  all-important  question  with  Range 
and  Stove  manufacturers  has  been,  how  to  increase  the  heating  surface 
of  water  backs  so  as  to  give  a  supply  of  hot  water  adequate  for  the  de- 
mands, without  encroaching  upon  the  fire  space  or  detracting  from  the 
baking  qualities  of  the  ovens, 

Pipes,  coils  and  water  backs  of  varied  and  multiple  forms  have  been 
deviled,  yet  none  of  them  can  be  referred  to  as  doing  the  work  required. 

Knowing    that    a    aCT^--^.  water  back  in  contact 

with  the  oven  chilled  fSOp&^^T^------^^  and  destroyed  its  effi- 

ciency, and  desiring  1B|  _<f'  ^^fe^^S  to  give  the  best  results 

both  in  water  heating  ^*^1  I  :inc^  baking  qualities 

of  our  ranges,  we  ^^*^^.»_  I  invente^  tni*  new 

water  back;  and  know  ^^^^  that  we  have  what 

has  been  so  long  and  earnestly  sought.  It  is  inexplicable  that  some  one 
before  this  did  not  study  it  out. 

This  heater,  for  ranges  family  sixes,  contains  202  square  inches  of 
direct  impinging  fire  surface;  and  for  hotel  sizes,  from  225  to  262  square 
inches.  In  family  ranges  the  heater  is  placed  on  the  left  side  of  fire 
box,  the  pins  projecting  into  the  hottest  fire.  In  hotel  ranges  it  can  be 
placed  on  either  side,  as  these  ranges  have  large  center  flues  next  to  fire 
box,  hence  the  water  backs  do  not  affect  the  oven. 

The  accompanying  cut  illustrates  the  form  and  construction,  and 
shows  its  wonderful  capacity  and  heating'power.  Patents  for  this  inven- 
tion have  been  applied  for. 

"MAJESTIC"—  IN  THE  MINDS  OF  PEOPLE—  "  MAJESTIC." 


14 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC   RANGE  No.  37. 

FOR  SOFT   COAL  OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOE  HAKD  COAL  OR  WOOD  Xo.  37HC. 

Has  no  water-front.     Top  cooking  surface  29  x  30  inches ;  four  8-inch 

py-plate;  oven  15  inches  wide,  21  inches  deep,  13  inches  hio-h; 

shelf,  large  lower  warming  oven,  bailed  ash  pan,  heavy  diagonal 

s  and  fir.. -linings,  protecting  bar,  gravity  door  handle  and  towefrod. 

lined  with  pure  asbestos  board.     Made  almost  entirely  of  malleable 

and  wrought  steel.     It  is  a  charming  range  and  will  do  the  cooking 

to  perfection  for  four  to  six  persons. 

jPrice,  $40.00. 


Prices     include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance -from  26c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs- 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  15 


BREAD  MAKING. 


The  old  saying,  "Bread  is  the  staff  of  life."  has  sound  reason  in  it. 
Flour  made  from  wheat,  and  meal  from  oats  and  Indian  corn,  are  rich  in 
the  waste-repairing  elements — starch  and  albumen — and  head  the  list  of 
articles  of  food  for  man. 

Good  bread  makes  the  homeliest  meal  acceptable,  and  coarse  fare 
appetixing.  while  the  most  luxurious  table  is  not  even  tolerable  without 
it.  There  is  an  old  and  true  saying  tbat  "  She  who  has  baked  a  good  batch 
of  bread  has  done  a  good  day's  work." 

Bread-making  should  stand  at  the  head  of  domestic  accomplishments, 
since  the  health  and  happiness  of  all  depend  immeasurably  upon  good 
bread;  and  there  is  certain  to  come  a  time  in  the  experience  of  every  true 
and  thoughtful  woman  that  she  is  glad  and  proud  of  her  ability  to. make 
nu-r.  sweet  loaves,  free  from  soda,  alum  and  other  injurious  ingredients: 
or  bitter  regret  that  she  neglected  to  learn,  or  was  so  unfortunate  as  not 
to  have  been  taught  at  least,  the  first  requisites  of  good  bread-making. 

Four  things  are  indispensable, to  success:  Good  flour,  good  yeast, 
watchful  care,  and  a  Majestic  Range  in  which  to  bake  it. 

Bread  Sponge. — Six  potatoes  boiled  on  a  Majestic  Range  and 
mashed  while  hot,  two  tablespoons  of  white  sugar,  two  of  butter,  one 
quart  tepid  water;  into  this  stir  three  cups  flour;  beat  to  a  smooth  batter, 
add  six  tablespoons  yeast;  set  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  knead 
in  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff,  spongy  dough;  knead  vigorously 
for  fifteen  minutes,  set  away  to  rise,  and  when  light  knead  for  ten 
iniir.ites;  mold  out  into  moderate-sized  loaves,  and  let  rise  until  they  are 
like  delicate  or  light  sponge-cake. 

Sponge  for  Winter  Use. — Peel  and  boil  on  a  Majestic  Kange 
four  or  five  medium-sized  potatoes  in  two  quarts  of  water  (which  will 
boil  down  to  one  quart  by  the  time  the  potatoes  are  cooked)  ;  when  done, 
take  out  and  press  through  a  colander,  or  mash  very  fine  in  the  crock  in 
which  the  sponge  is  to  be  made;  make  a  well  in  the  center,  into  which 
put  one  cup  of  flour,  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  water  from  the  potatoes; 
stir  thoroughly,  and  when  cool  add  a  pint  of  tepid  water,  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thin  batter,  and  a  cup  of  yeast.  This  sponge  makes  very  moist 
bread. 

Good  Bread.— For  four  small  loaves  boil  four  large  potatoes; 
when  done  pour  off  the  water,  and  when  it  cools  add  to  it  a  yeast  cake ; 
mash  the  potato  very  fine,  put  through  a  sieve,  pour  boiling  milk  on  as 
much  flour  as  is  needed,  let  stand  until  cool,  add  the  potato  and  yeast,  a 
large  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar;  stir  very  stiff,  adding 
flour  as  is  needed.  Let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  light,  dissolve  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  little  hot  water,  mix  well  through  with  the  hands, 
mold  into  loaves,  and  let  rise  again.  When  sufficiently  raised  place  in  a 
moderately  hot  Majestic  Eange  oven,  keeping  up  a  steady  fire. 

"MAJESTIC  "—IN  THE  EAST— "  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE   No.  38. 

FOR  SOFT   COAL   OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOE  HAED 


No.  38HC 


For  size,  construction,  etc.    see  No    37     TV, 
that^this  range  is  fitted  tith     our 

tacheTat Cither  ^ndTas  prS^^*     boiler,  whic/can  beT 

Price,  $42.00. 

be  pa,d  by 
ding  to  distance-from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  17 

Bread  with  Buttermilk. — The  evening  before  baking,  bring  to 
the  boiling  point  two  quarts  of  buttermilk  (or  boil  sour  milk  and  take  the 
same  quantity  of  the  whey),  and  pour  into  a  crock  in  which  a  scant  tea- 
cup of  sifted  flour  has  been  placed.  Let  stand  until  sufficiently  cool,  then 
add  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  and  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter;  the  better  and 
longer  the  sponge  is  stirred  the  whiter  will  be  the  bread.  In  the  morn- 
ing sift  the  flour  into  the  bread-pan,  pour  the  sponge  in  the  center,  stir  in 
some  of  the  flour,  and  let  stand  until  after  breakfast;  then  mix,  kneading 
for  about  half  an  hour — the  longer  the  better;  when  light,  mold  into 
loaves,  this  time  kneading  as  little  as  possible.  .The  secret  of  good  bread 
is  having  good  yeast  and  net  baking  too  hard.  This  makes  four  loaves 
and  forty  biscuit.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Hop-Yeast  Bread. — One  teacup  yeast,  three  pints  •warm  water; 
make  a  thin  sponge  at  tea  time,  cover  and  let  it  remain  two  hours  or  until 
veiy  light.  By  adding  the  water  to  the  flour  first?  and  having  the  sponge 
quite  warm  it  is  never  necessary  to  put  the  sponge  over  hot  water  or  in  an 
oven  to  make  it  rise.  Knead  into  a  loaf  before  going  to  bed;  in  the 
morning  mold  into  three  loaves,  spreading  a  little  lard  between  as  they 
are  put  in  the  pan.  When  light,  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range  one  hour, 
having  oven  quite  hot  when  the  bread  is  put  in,  and  very  moderate  when 
it  is  done.  (Bread  made  in  this  way  is  never  sour  or  heavy.)  To  have 
fine,  light  biscuit,  add  shortening  at  night,  and  in  the  morning  make  into 
biscuit  and  bake  for  breakfast.  By  this  recipe  bread  is  baked  before  the 
range  is  cold  from  breakfast,  and  out  of  the  way  for  other  baking. 

To  cool  bread  there  should  be  a  board  for  the  purpose.  An  oaken 
board  covered  with  heavy  white  flannel  is  the  best;  over  this  spread  a 
fresh  linen  bread-cloth,  and  lay  the  bread  on  it  right  side  up,  with  noth- 
ing over  it  except  a  very  thin  cover  to  keep  off  the  flies.  It  should  be 
placed  immediately  in  the  fresh  air  or  wind  to  cool ;  when  cool,  place  im- 
mediately in  a  tin  box  or  stone  jar,  and  cover  closely.  Bread  cooled  in 
this  way  will  have  a  soft  crust  and  be  filled  with  pure  air. 

Poor-Man's  Bread. — One  pint  of  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  one 
level  teaspoon  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as 
soda-biscuit  dough;  cut  into  three  pieces,  handle  as  little  as  possible,  roll 
an  inch  thick,  place  in  dripping-pan,  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range  twenty  or 
thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  and,  when  done,  wrap  in  a  bread-cloth. 
Eat  while  warm,  breaking  open  like  a  biscuit.  Each  cake  will  be  about 
the  size  of  a  pie. 

Bread  with  Mush. — Pour  two  quarts  hot  corn  meal  .mush,  made 
as  for  eating,  over  two  quarts  flour  (wheat  or  graham)  ;  when  cool  add 
one  quart  sponge,  one  coffee  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  tea- 
spoon soda;  mix  wrell  together;  add  more  flour  if  needed,  and  knead 
thoroughly;  mold  into  small  loaves;  let  rise  and  bake  in  small  dripping 
pans  (a  loaf  in  a  pan),  or  pie  tins,  in  a  Majestic  Range  in  a  moderate 
oven ;  when  done  rub  over  with  butter,  place  on  the  side,  wrap  in  a  cloth, 
and  when  cold  put  in  a  jar  or  box.  This  recipe  makes  three  good-sized 
loaves  and  keeps  moist  longer  than  all  graham  bread. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  THE  WEST— "  MAJESTIC." 


18 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC   RANGE  No.  39. 

FOR  SOFT   COAL   OK  WOOD. 

IF  FOR  HARD  GOAL  OK  WOOD  Xo.  39HC. 
*??  C0okin£  suftoce,  size  of  oven,  and  general  constructive  fea- 

tSB**. 


Price,  $51.00. 


Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  bj 
-the  rate  varying  according  to  distance-from  2Bc  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Salt-Rising  Bread. — The  leaven  for  this  bread  is  prepared  thus: 
Take  a  pint  of  warm  water — about  ninety  degrees  (if  a  little  too  hot  de- 
feat is  certain) — in  a  perfectly  clean  bowl  and  stir  up  a  thick  batter,  adding 
only  a  teaspoon  of  salt;  a  thorough  beating  of  the  batter  is  important. 
Set  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  to  secure  uniformity  of  temperature,  and  in 
two  to  four  hours  it  will  begin  to  rise.  The  rising  is  much  more  sure  if 
coarse  flour  or  ••  shorts''  is  used  instead  of  fine  flour. 

When  your  ••  rising"  is  nearly  light  enough,  take  a  pint  of  milk  and 
a  pint  of  boiling  water  (a  tablespoon  of  lime  water  added  is  good  and 
often  prevents  souring) ;  mix  the  sponge  in  the  bread-pan,  and  when 
cooled  to  about  milk-warm  stir  in  the  rising.  The  sponge  thus  made  will 
be  light  in  two  to  four  hours,  with  good  warmth.  The  dough  requires 
'leading  than  yeast-raised  dough.  The  bread  is  simpler,  but  not  so 
certain  of  rising,  and  you  leave  out  all  the  ingredients  save  the  flour, 
water  (milk  is  not  essential),  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  It  should  be  made 
more  frequently  as  it  dries  faster  than  bread  containing  potatoes.  Some 
object  to  it  because  of  the  odor  in  rising,  which  is  the  result  of  acetous 
fermentation,  but  the  more  of  that  the  more  sure  you  are  having  sweet 
bread  when  baked.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

BroAvn  Bread. — Two  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk,  and  one-half 
cup  molasses;  into  these  put  one  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  corn 
meal,  one  cup  graham  flour  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Use  coffee  cups. 
Steam  three  hours,  and  afterwards  brown  in  a  Majestic  Range  oven. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — One  heaping  coffee  cup  eaclj  of  corn,  rye 
and  graharn  meal.  The  rye  meal  should  be  as  fine  as  the  graham,  or  rye 
flour  may  be  used.  Sift  the  three  kinds  together  as  closely  as  possible, 
and  beat  together  thoroughly  with  two  cups  of  New  Orleans  or  Port  Rico 
molasses,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  dessertspoon  soda, 
one  teaspoon  salt;  pour  into  a  tin  form,  place  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water, 
put  on  a  Majestic  Range  and  boil  four  hours.  Put  on  to  cook  as  soon  as 
mixed.  It  may  appear  to  be  too  i^in,  but  it  is  not,  as  this  recipe  has 
never  been  known  to  fail.  Serve  warm,  with  baked  beans  or  Thanksgiv- 
ing turkey.  The  bread  should  not  quite  fill  the  form  (or  a  tin  pail  with 
cover  will  answer),  as  it  must  have  room  to  swell.  See  that  the  water 
does  not  boil  up  to  the  top  of  the  form;  also  take  care  that  it  does  not  boil 
entirely  away  or  stop  boiling.  To  serve  it,  remove  the  lid  and  set  it  a  few 
moments  into  the  open  oven  to  dry  the  top,  and  it  will  then  turn  out  in 
perfect  shape.  This  bread  can  be  used  as  a  pudding,  and  served  with  a 
sauce  made  of  thick  sour  cream,  well  sweetened  and  seasoned  with  nut- 
meg ;  or  it  is  good  toasted  the  next  day. 

Eastern  Brown  Bread. — One  pint  each  of  rye  or  graham  and  In- 
dian meal,  one  cup  molasses,  three-fourths  cup  sour  milk,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  soda,  one  and  one-half  pints  cold  water.  Put  on  range 
over  cold  water  (all  brown  breads  are  better  when  put  on  to  steam  over 
cold  water,  which  is  afterwards  brought  to  the  boiling  point  and  kept 
constantly  boiling  until  bread  is  done)  ;  steam  four  hours,  and  brown  over 
in  the  Majestic  Range  oven. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  THE  NORTH— "  MAJESTIC." 


20 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  4O. 

FOR  SOFT  COAL  OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOE  HAKD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  40HC. 

Has  no  water-front.  Top  cooking  surface  29x33  inches;  four  8-inch 
lids  and  wide  key-plate;  oven  17  inches  wide,  21  inches  deep,  13  inches 
high;  mantel  shelf,  large  lower  warming  oven,  bailed  ash  pan,  heavy 

liagonal  grates  and  fire-linings,  protecting  bar,  gravity  door  handle  and 
towel  rod.  Flue  lined  with  pure  asbestos  board.  Made  almost  entirely 

f  malleable  iron  and  wrought  steel.  It  is  symmetrical  and  beautiful  in 
proportions,  and  will  do  the  cooking  for  six  to  eight  persons. 

Price,  $43.00. 

Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers- the  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  26c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  21 

Bread,  in  Summer  or  Winter.— In  summer  take  three  pints  of 
cold  or  tepid  water,  four  tablespoons  of  yeast,  one  teaspoon  of  salt;  stir  in 
flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  sponge  (rather  thicker  than  griddle-cakes). 
Let  stand  until  morning,  then  add  more  flour,  mix  stiff,  and  knead  ten 
minutes;  place  in  a  pan,  let  rise  until  light,  knead  for  another  ten 
minutes;  mold  into  four  loaves  and  set  to  rise,  but  do  not  let  it  get  too 
light.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour.  If  bread 
is  mixed  at  six  o'clock  in  the  morning  the  baking  ought  to  be  done  by  ten 
o'clock. 

In  winter  take  one  pint  of  buttermilk  or  clabbered  milk ;  let  it  scald 
(not  boil)  ;  make  a  well  in  the  center  of  the  flour;  into  it  turn  the  hot 
milk,  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  enough  flour  and  water  to  make  sufficient 
sponge,  and  one  teacup  of  yeast;  let  stand  until  morning,  and  then  pre- 
pare the  bread  as  in  summer.  This  is  more  covenient  to  make  in  winter, 
since  a  hot  fire  is  needed  to  heat  the  milk. 

Corn  Bread. — One  pint  corn  meal  sifted,  one  pint  flour,  one  pint 
sour  milk,  two  eggs  beaten  light,  one-half  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg;  add,  the  last  thing,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  milk;  add  to 
beaten  egg  the  milk  and  meal  alternately,  then  the  butter  and  sugar.  If 
sweet  milk  is  used,  add  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar;-  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Corn  Bread. — Take  one  quart  buttermilk,  and  one  heaping  pint 
corn  meal,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  sugar  and  three 
eggs ;  have  the  range  very  hot,  and  do  not  bake  in  too  deep  a  pan.  The 
batter  seems  too  thin,  but  bakes  very  nicely  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Plain  Corn  Bread. — One  well-heaped  pint  corn  meal,  one  pint 
sour  or  buttermilk,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  of  salt;  bake  in  drip- 
ping or  gem  pans  in  a  Majestic  R'ange.  If  preferred,  one  heaping  table- 
spoon of  sugar  may  be  added. 

Graham  Bread. — Mix  three  quarts  Graham  flour,  one  quart  warm 
water,  half  pint  yeast,  a  quarter  pint  molasses,  and  one  tablespoon  salt 
thoroughly;  put  in  well-buttered  pans,  and  leave  in  a  warm  place  to  rise, 
or  let  it  rise  over  night  at  60°.  If  left  to  rise  slowly,  let  it  remain  in  the 
bowl  in  which  it  was  mixed,  and  unless  very  light  when  put  in  pans  let  it 
stand  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before  putting  in  the  oven.  Bake  in  a 
Majestic  Range. 

Graham  Bread. — To  one  and  a  half  pints  of  tepid  water  add  one 
heaping  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  stir  in  one-half  pint 
or  more  of  the  sponge  made  of  white  flour,  as  in  recipe  for  u  Bread  with 
Potato  Yeast;  "  add  Graham  flour  until  almost  too  stiff  to  stir;  put  in  the 
baking-pan  and  let  rise  well,  which  will  take  about  two  hours;  bake  in  a 
Majestic  Range  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when  done  wrap  in  a  wet  towel 
until  cool. 

Quick  Graham  Bread. — One  and  a  half  pints  sour  milk,  half  cup 
New  Orleans  molasses,  a  little  salt,  two  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  water,  and  as  much  Graham  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in  with  a 
spoon;  pour  in  well-greased  pan,  put  in  oven  as  soon  as  mixed,  and  bake 
two  hours  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  THE  SOUTH— "  MAJESTIC." 


22 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC   RANGE  No.  41. 

FOR  SOFT  COAL   OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  41HC. 


Is  an  exact  counterpart  of  No.  40,  with  our  "pin  extension"  water- 
front. This  heater  if  con-  ^^^^^^^  ,^  nected  to  a  40-gallon 
pressure  boiler  will  sup-  SKBf&fJSf&jm  ply  all  the  hot  water  de- 
manded. People  before  &  purchasing  a  range  wish 
to  know  that  it  is  honest,  VBJ^BRBGaF  effective,  durable,  and 
reasonable  in  price;  and  for  these  qualities  we  recommend  it. 

Price,  $45.00. 


Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  26c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  23 

Rye  and  Indian  Bread. — One  quart  of  rye  meal  or  rye  flour,  two 
quarts  of  Indian  meal,  scalded  (by  placing  in  a  pan  and  pouring  just 
enough  boiling  water  over  it,  stirring  constantly  with  a  spoon,  to  merely 
wet  it,  but  not  enough  to  make  it  into  a  batter),  one-half  teacup  uio- 
la^ses.  two  teaspoons  salt,  one  of  soda,  one  teacup  yeast;  make  as  stiff  as 
can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  mixing  with  warm  water,  and  let  rise  all 
night;  then  put  in  a  large  pan,  smooth  the  top  with  the  hand  dipped  in 
cold  water,  let  it  stand  a  short  time,  and  bake  five  or  six  hours  in  a  Ma- 
jestic Range.  If  put  in  the  oven  late  in  the  day  let  it  remain  all  night. 
Graham  may  be  used  instead  of  rye,  and  baked  as  above.  In  the  olden 
time  it  was  placed  in  kettle,  allowed  to  rise,  then  placed  on  the  hearth 
before  the  fire,  with  coals  on  top  of  lid,  and  baked. 

Rye  Bread. — Make  a  sponge  of  one  quart  warm  water,  one  teacup 
yeast,  thickened  with  rye  flour;  put  in  warm  place  to  rise  over  night; 
scald  one  pint  corn  meal;  when  cool  add  it  to  sponge,  and  add  rye  flour 
till  thick  enough  to  knead,  knead  but  little,  let  rise,  mold  into  loaves, 
place  in  deep  pie  tins  or  small  pudding-pans,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  Ma- 
jestic Kange.  Or.  thicken  the  sponge  with  rye  flour,  and  proceed  as 
above.  Wheat  sponge  ma}'  be  used  instead  of  rye. 

The  Best  Ginger  Bread. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  molasses, 
one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  each  extracts  of  cin- 
namon and  ginger.  Bake  in  shallow  pan  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Buttered  Toast. — Although  toast  is  commonly  used  few  know 
how  to  prepare  it  nicely.  Take  bread  not  too  fi'esh,  cut  thin  and  evenly, 
trim  off  the  crust  edges  for  the  crumb  jar;  first  warm  each  side  of  the 
bread,  then  present  the  first  side  again  to  the  fire  until  it  takes  on  a  rich, 
even,  brown  color;  treat  the  other  side  in  the  same  way;  butter  and  serve 
immediately.  The  coals  should  be  bright  and  hot.  Toast  properly  made 
is  very  digestible,  because  all  the  moisture  is  extracted,  and  the  bread 
has  become  pure  farina  of  wheat ;  but  when  it  is  exposed  to  a  hot  fire  and 
the  outside  charred,  the  inside  remains  as  moist  as  ever,  and  butter  ap- 
plied to  it  while  warm  does  not  penetrate,  but  floats  on  the  surface  in  the 
form  of  rancid  oil.  Or,  beat  one  cup  of  butter  and  three  tablespoons  of 
flour  to  a  cream,  pour  over  this  one  and  a  half  pints  boiling  water;  place 
over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes,  dip  into  it  the  toast,  and 
serve  hot.  Or,  dip  each  slice  of  toast  in  boiling  hot  water  (slightly 
salted),  spread  with  butter,  cover  and  keep  hot. 

Breakfast  Toast. — Add  to  one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  a  little  salt  and  a  well-beaten  egg;  dip  in  this  slices  of 
bread  (if  dry  let  it  soak  a  minute),  and  fry  on  a  buttered  griddle  on  a 
Majestic  Range  until  it  is  a  light  brown  on  each  side.  This  is  a  good 
way  to  use  dry  bread. 

Mennonite  Toast. — Beat  up  three  eggs  well,  add  a  pint  of  sweet 
milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  cut  slices  an  inch  thick  from  a  loaf  of  baker's 
bread,  remove  crust,  dip  slices  into  the  eggs  and  milk,  fry  like  doughnuts 
in  very  hot  lard  or  drippings  till  a  delicate  brown,  on  a'Majestic  Range, 
butter,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve  hot. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  WORKMANSHIP—"  MAJESTIC." 


24 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.   42. 

FOR  SOFT   COAL  OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  Xo.  42HC. 

This  range  in  dimensions  is  exactly  the  same  as  Xo.  40.  the  15-o-allon 
copper-reservoir,  as  shown,  J%,,  making  the  change  in  the 
number.  Descriptive- words  I  S^^  cannot  do  justice  to  this 
valuable  kitchen  utensil.  BMfi  °%ft  To  bo  appreciated  it  must 
be  seen  and  used.  Its  ^M  >'.  ?1  adornments  are  simple, 
not  too  much  not  too  lit-  *^  4  >  I  tic.  but  just  enough  nickel- 
plate  and  polish  to  show  ~-«CJP  to  thc  bjest  .ldva^tao-(.. 

Price,  $53.00. 

Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  25 


BISCUITS,  ROLL5,  TEA  CAKES,  ETC. 


Biscuit. — Dissolve  one  rounded  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  hot 
milk;  when  lukewarm  stir  in  one  quart  of  flour,  add  one  beaten  egg,  a 
little  .salt,  and  a  teacup  of  yeast;  work  into  dough,  until  smooth.  If  win- 
ter, set  in  a  warm  place;  if  summer,  in  a  cool  one  to  rise.  In  the  morn- 
ing work  softly  and  roll  out  one-half  inch  and  cut  into  biscuit  and  set  to 
rise  for  thirty  minutes,  when  they  will  be  ready  to  bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range.  These  are  delicious. 

Soda  Biscuit. — Put  one  quart  of  flour,  before  sifting,  into  sieve, 
with  one  teaspoon  soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar  (or  three  of  baking  pow- 
der), one  of  salt,  and  one  tablespoon  white  sugar;  mix  all  thoroughly 
with  the  flour,  run  through  sieve,  rub  in  one  level  tablespoon  of  lard  or 
butter  (or  half  and  hatf),  wet  with  half  pint  sweet  milk,  roll  on  board 
about  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range 
in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes.  If  you  have  not  milk,  use  a  little  more 
butter,  and  wet  with  water.  Handle  as  little  and  make  as  rapidly  as 
possible. 

Hard  Tea  Biscuit. — Two  pounds  of  flour,  one-fourth  pound  but- 
ter, one  saltspoon  salt,  three  gills  milk;  cut  up  the  butter  and  rub  it  in 
the  flour,  add  the  salt  and  milk,  knead  dough  for  half  an  hour,  cut  cakes 
about  as  large  as  a  small  teacup  and  half  an  inch  thick,  prick  with  a  fork, 
and  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range  in  a  moderate  oven  until  they  are  a  delicate 
brown. 

South  Carolina  Biscuit. — One  quart  sweet  cream  or  milk,  one 
and  a  half  cups  butter  or  fresh  lard,  two  tablespoons  white  sugar,  one 
good  teaspoon  salt;  add  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  knead  well 
and  mold  into  neat,  small  biscuit  with  the  hands,  as  our  grandmothers 
used  to  do;  add  one  good  teaspoon  cream  tartar  if  preferred;  bake  well  in 
a  Majestic  Range,  and  you  have  good  sweet  biscuit  that  will  keep  for 
weeks  in  a  dry  place,  and  are  very  nice  for  traveling  lunch.  They  are 
such  as  we  used  to  send  to  the  army,  and  the  "  boys "  relished  them 
'*  hugely." 

Breakfast  Rolls. — Mix  the  dough  in  the  evening,  according  to 
directions  in  the  recipe  for  making  good  bread ;  add  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  and  set  where  it  will  be  a  little  warm  until  morning;  cut  off 
pieces,  and  carefully  shape  them  into  rolls  of  the  desired  size  by  rolling 
them  between  the  hands,  but  do  not  knead  them ;  dip  the  sides  of  each 
into  drawn  butter  when  they  are  shaped,  and  place  them  in  the  baking 
pan  (the  butter  prevents  their  sticking  together  when  baked,  and  they 
will  be  smooth  and  perfect  when  separated).  Rub  them  over  the  top 
with  drawn  butter,  and  dust  a  little  fine  salt  over  the  top ;  set  in  a  warm 
place,  and  they  will  quickly  rise  ready  for  baking  in  a  Majestic  Range. 
These  are  delicious. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  SPRING  TIME— <•  MAJESTIC." 


26 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  43. 

FOR  SOFT  COAL  OB  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  43HC. 

Has  no  water-front.  Has  three  anchor  plates  and  six  8-inch  lids. 
Top  cooking  surface  29x33  inches;  oven  17  inches  wide,  21  inches  deep, 
13  inches  high;  mantel  shelf,  large  lower  warming  oven,  bailed  ash  pan, 
heavy  diagonal  grates  and  fire-linings,  protecting  bar.  gravity  door  handle 
and  towel  rod.  Flue  lined  with  pure  asbestos  board.  Made  almost  entirely 
of  malleable  iron  and  wrought  steel.  Progression  is  our  motto,  and  the 
successive  steps  leading  up  to  this  beautiful  range  can  be  cle^viv  obs^rvpH . 

Price,  $44.00. 

Prices     include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  27 

Coffee  Rolls. — Work  into  a  quart  of  bread  dough  a  rounded  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  a  balf  teacup  of  white  sugar ;  add  some  dried  currants 
(well  washed  and  dried  in  the  oven),  sift  some  flour  and  sugar  over  them, 
work  into  the  other  ingredients,  make  into  small  rolls,  dip  into  melted 
butter,  place  in  tins,  let  rise  a  short  time,  and  bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

E very-day  Rolls. — Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough  on  baking  day 
when  molded  out  the  last  time,  about  enough  for  a  small  loaf,  spread  out 
a  little,  add  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  three-fourths  cup  of 
lard;  add  a  little  flour  and  a  small  teaspoon  soda  if  the  least  bit  sour; 
mix  well,  let  rise,  mold  into  rolls  or  biscuits,  set  to  rise  again,  and  they 
will  be  ready  for  the  oven  in  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Bake  in  a  Ma- 
jestic Eange. 

Vienna  Rolls. — Have  ready  in  a  bowl  a  tablespoon  of  butter  or 
lard,  made  soft  by  warming  a  little,  and  stirring  with  a  spoon.  Add  to 
one  quart  of  unsifted  flour  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder;  mix  and 
sift  thoroughly  together,  and  place  in  a  bowl  with  butter.  Take  more  or 
less  sweet  milk  as  may  be  necessary  to  form  a  dough  of  usual  stiffness, 
according  to  the  flour  (about  three-fourths  of  a  pint),  put  into  the  milk 
half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  then  stir  it  into  the  flour,  etc.,  with  a  spoon, 
forming  the  dough,  which  turn  out  on  a  board  and  knead  sufficiently  to 
make  smooth.  Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  large  round 
cutter ;  fold  each  one  over  to  form  a  half  round,  wetting  a  little  between 
the  folds  to  make  them  stick  together;  place  on  buttered  pans  so  as  not  to 
touch,  wash  over  on  top  with  milk  to  give  them  a  gloss,  and  bake  imme- 
diately in  a  hot  oven  in  a  Majestic  Range  about  twenty  minutes.  It  will 
do  them  no  harm  to  stand  half  an  hour  before  baking  if  it  is  desired. 

Sally  JLunn. — Sift  into  a  pan  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  put  in  two 
ounces  of  butter  warmed  in  a  pint  of  new  milk,  one  saltspoon  salt,  three 
eggs  well-beaten,  and  two  tablespoons  of  good  yeast.  Mix  well  together, 
and  put  the  whole  into  a  tin  pan  well  greased,  and  set  to  rise  all  night. 
Bake  a  little  brown  in  a  quick  Majestic  Range  oven.  Warm  the  milk  and 
butter  over  water  until  the  butter  is  melted;  beat  the  eggs  in  a  two-quart 
tin  pail,  and  if  the  milk  is  not  hot  pour  it  over  them.  Stir  in  half  the 
flour,  then  add  the  yeast,  stirring  thoroughly  with  the  rest  of  the  flour. 
Let  rise  over  night.  Some  add  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  use  a  teaspoon 
soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar  instead  of  the  yeast. 

Rusk. — One  pint  milk,  three  eggs,  one  teacup  each  of  butter  and 
sugar,  and  one  coffee  cup  potato  yeast;  thicken  with  flour  and  sponge 
over  night;  in  the  morning  stir  down,  let  rise,  and  stir  down  again;  when 
it  rises  make  into  a  loaf,  and  let  rise  again;  then  roll  out  like  soda  biscuit, 
cut  and  put  in  pans,  and,  when  light,  bake  carefully.  Or,  when  baking 
take  four  cups  dough,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,-three  eggs ; 
mix  thoroughly,  adding  enough  flour  to  mold  easily;  let  rise,  make  into 
rather  high  and  nai'row  biscuit,  let  rise  again,  rub  the  tops  with  a  little 
sugar  and  water,  then  sprinkle  over  them  dry  sugar.  Bake  twenty  min- 
utes in  a  Majestic  Range. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  SUMMER—"  MAJESTIC." 


28 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.    44. 

FOR  SOFT   COAL   OK  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  44HC. 

Tho  only  pronounced  change  from  No.  43,  is  that  this  range  has  our 
•pin    extension''   water-     ^KKffMmmm^^     front;  and  the  all-impor- 
tant question  with  house-    &BHHHM     keepers,  what  range  will 
supply  the  greatest  quan-     •  .;      tity   of   hot  water    is   at 

once  answered  when  this      ^BBB^BjP     heater  is  shown  in   the 
ange.     lucre  is  nothing  made,  encompassed  in  the  same  space,  that  is 
equal  to  it  in  heating  power. 

Price,  $-!(!. 00. 


Prices     include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purcha»ert— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance-trom  26c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  29 

Rusk. — Two  teacups  raised  dough,  one  teacup  sugar,  half  cup  but- 
ter, two  well-beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  set  to  rise, 
and  when  light  mold  into  high  biscuit  and  let  rise  again;  sift  sugar  and 
cinnamon  over  the  top  and  place  in  Majestic  Range  oren. 

Lebanon  Rusk. — One  cup  mashed  potatoes,  one  of  sugar,  one  of 
home-made  yeast,  three  eggs;  mix  together;  when  raised  light,  add  half 
cup  butter  or  lard,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and,  when  quite  light, 
mold  into  small  cakes,  and  let  them  rise  again  before  baking  in  a  Majestic 
Range.  If  wanted  for  tea,  set  about  nine  A.  M. 

Bread  Puffs. — If  the  wheat  bread  is  light  enough  for  the  oven  at 
breakfast  time,  have  ready  some  hot  lard  in  a  deep  kettle;  with  the 
thumb  and  two  fingers  pull  up  some  of  the  dough  quite  thin,  and  cut  it 
some  two  or  three  inches  in  length ;  as  these  pieces  are  cut,  drop  them  in 
the  lard  and  fry  like  doughnuts  on  a  Majestic  Range.  At  table  they  are 
eaten  like  biscuit;  they  may  also  be  served  in  a  vegetable  dish  with  a 
dressing  of  hot  cream,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Wheaten  Gems. — Mix  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  a  little 
salt  into  one  pint  flour;  add  to  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  one  teacup 
sweet  milk  or  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  (melted)  half  the  size  of  an  egg, 
the  flour  with  baking  powder  and  salt  mixed,  and  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  the  two  eggs.  Beat  well,  bake  immediately  in  gem  pans  in  a  hot  Ma- 
jestic Range  oven,  and  take  out  and  send  to  the  table  immediately. 

Wheat  Muffins. — Mix  one  pint  milk,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoons 
yeast,  and  saltspoon  of  salt,  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  let 
rise  four  or  five  hours  and  bake  in  muffin  rings  in  hot  Majestic  Range 
oven  for  about  ten  minutes.  This  recipe  may  be  made  with  Graham  flour 
by  adding  two  tablespoons  of  molasses,  and  is  excellent. 

Corn  Muffins. — One  quart  sifted  Indian  meal,  a  heaping  teaspoon 
butter,  one  quart  milk,  a  saltspoon  salt,  a  third  cup  yeast,  a  tablespoon  of 
molasses;  let  it  rise  four  or  five  hours,  and  bake  in  muffin-rings  in  a  Ma- 
jestic Range. 

Graham  Muffins. — Two  cups  of  sour  milk,  two  tablespoons  brown 
sugar,  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoon  soda,  sufficient  Graham  flour  to  make 
moderately  stiff.  If  not  convenient  to  use  sour  milk  use  sweet,  adding 
cream  of  tartar.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Waffles. — Take  one  quart  of  flour,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  one  measure  each  of  acid  and  soda  (or 
two  heaping  teaspoon*  acid  and  one  moderately  heaping  teaspoon  soda) 
of  Hereford's  Bread  Preparation;  stir  well,  and  bake  at  once  in  waffle 
irons  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Quick  Waffles. — Two  pints  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter  (melted), 
sifted  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
then  the  beaten  whites,  and  lastly  (just  before  baking)  four  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  beating  very  hard  and  fast  for  a  few  minutes.  These  are 
very  good  with  four  or  five  eggs,  but  much  better  with  more.  Bake  in  a 
Majestic  Range. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  FALL—"  MAJESTIC." 


30  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Crullers. — Two  coffee  cups  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  u 
heaping  tablespoon  butter,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  mixed  with 
.six  cups  flour,  half  a  nutmeg  and  a  level  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Beat  eggs, 
sugar  and  butter  together,  add  rnilk.  spices  and  flour;  put  another  cup 
flour  on  molding  board,  turn  the  dough  out  on  it,  and  knead  until  stiff 
enough  to  roll  out  to  a  quarter  inch  thick;  cut  in  squares,  make  three  or 
four  incisions  in  each  square,  lift  by  taking  alternate  strips  between  the 
finger  and  thumb,  drop  into  hot  lard  and  cook  like  doughnuts  on  a  Ma- 
jestic Kange. 

Fried  Cakes. — One  coffee  cup  of  not  too  thick  sour  cream,  or  one 
of  sour  milk  and  one  tablespoon  ot  butter,  two  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
salt,  one  teacup  sugar,  one  small  teaspoon  soda  dissolved;  mix  soft.  Fry 
on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Cornmeal  Doughnuts. — A  teacup  and  a  half  boiling  milk  poured 
over  two  teacups  meal ;  when  cool  add  two  cups  flour,  one  of  butter,  one 
and  one-half  of  sugar,  three  eggs;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon:  let 
rise  till  very  light;  roll  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  diamond  shape 
and  boil  in  hot  lard  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Cream  Doughnuts. — Beat  one  cup  of  sour  cream  and  sugar  and 
two  eggs  together,  add  level  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt,  and  Hour  enough 
to  roll.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Doughnuts. — One  egg,  a  cup  rich  milk,  a  cup  sugar,  three  pints 
flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powdei  (or  one  and  a  half  measures  Hors- 
ford's  Bread  Preparation).  These  are  made  richer  by  adding  one  egg 
and  one  teaspoon  butter.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Xorth  Star  Doughnuts. — One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  of  sour 
milk,  half  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  a  level  teaspoon  soda,  spice  to  taste, 
and  flour  to  roll.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Berlin  Pancakes. — Roll  out  dough  slightly  sweetened  and  short- 
ened, as  if  for  very  plain  doughnuts;  cut  in  circles  like  biscuit,  put  a  tea- 
spoon currant  jam  or  jelly  on  the  center  of  one,  lay  another  upon  it.  pn-.-> 
the  edges  tightly  together  with  the  fingers  and  fry  quickly  in  boiling  fat 
on  a  Majestic  Range.  They  will  be  perfect  globes  when  done,  a  Tittle 
smaller  than  an  orange. 

Trifles. — A  quart  flour,  a  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
a  little  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  egg,  and  sweet  milk  suffi- 
cient to  make  rather  stiff;  roll  out  in  thin  sheets,  cut  in  pieces  about  two 
by  four  inches;  make  as  many  cuts  across  the  short  way  as  possible,  in- 
serting the  knife  near  one  edge  and  ending  the  cut  just  before  reaching 
the  other.  Pass  two  knitting  needles  under  every  other  strip,  spread  the 
needles  as  far  apart  as  possible,  and  with  them  hold  the  trifles  in  the  fat 
until  a  light  brown.  Only  one  can  be  fried  at  a  time.  Fry  on  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Lemon  Snaps. — A  large  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,,  half 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  two  teaspoons  hot  water,  flour  enough  to  roll 
thin;  flavor  Avith  lemon.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  SIMPLICITY—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  31 

Fruit  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  eup  of  butter,  two  cups 
of  chopped  raisins,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  extract  of  nutmeg,  clove 
and  cinnamon.  Flour  enough  to  roll;  bake  in  a  quick  Majestic  Range 
oven. 

The  Best  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
extract  of  lemon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking^  powder,  flour  enough  to 
make  a  soft  batter.  Bake  in  patty  tins  in  a  Majestic  Range.  Beat  the 
batter  hard  for  ten  minutes  before  putting  into  tins.  When  cold,  ice  with 
soft  white  icing  made  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  powdered  sugar 
enough  to  make  them  stiff. 

Tea  Cakes. — Put  upon  a  pie  board  one  pound  of  flour  which  you 
have  previously  sifted,  make  a  hole  in  the  center,  in  which  place  one-half 
pound  of  butter,  six  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  four  eggs.  Mix  all 
well  together,  and  roll  out  your  paste  extremely  thin ;  cut  it  out  in  rounds 
or  squares,  put  in  a  pan  which  has  been' buttered  slightly,  brush  your 
cakes  with  beaten  egg,  sprinkle  on  top  with  one-half  pound  of  currants; 
put  in  a  Majestic  Range  oven,  and  when  colored  a  bright  yellow  remove 
them  and  serve  as  needed. 

Almond  Drops.— Six  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of 
butter,  one  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of 
cream,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  almond.  Drop  from  spoon  on  buttered 
paper,  and  ba*ke  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Anise  Drops. — Three  cups  of  sugar  and  six  eggs  beaten  together 
one-half  hour;  add  one  quart  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  anise  seed. 
Grease  the  pan  with  beeswax,  and  drop  the  mixture  from  a  spoon.  Bake 
in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Spice  Drops. — Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  spice  with  ground  nutmeg,  cloves,  cinna- 
mon, and  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon;  drop  on  tins 
lined  with  buttered  paper.  Bake  quickly  in  Majestic  Range. 

Dew  Drops. — Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of 
lemon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
batter.  Bake  in  patty  tins  in  Majestic  Range,  and  ice  when  cold. 

Ginger  Drops.  —  Pne  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  each  extract  of  ginger  and 
cinnamon;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  in  one  cup  of  hot  water,  three  cups 
of  flour,  two  eggs.  Bake  in  drops  in  buttered  tins  in  Majestic  Range. 

Bread  Cake. — On  baking  day,  take  from  your  dough  when  ready 
for  baking,  two  cups  of  dough,  add  two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream ;  one-half  pound  of 
currants,  dredged;  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  extract  of  cinnamon; 
beat  hard  for  five  minutes;  put  in  two  buttered  pans  and  let  raise  for 
twenty  minutes.  Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  EVERY  HOWIE— "  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  45. 

FOR  SOFT  COAL  OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOO  No.  45HC. 


Long  descriptive  ar- 
we  refer  for  detail  to  No. 
ing  feature  in  this  range 
per  reservoir  and  its  con- 
needless  to  say  that  all 


tides  are  tiresome,  hence 
43,  the  only  distinguish- 
bcing  the  15-gallon  cop- 
nections,  as  shown.  It  is 
users  are  delighted. 

Price,  $54.00. 


Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Frieght  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance    from  25c  to  $2.00  per  tOO  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  33 

Bice  Waffles. — Boil  half  a  pint  of  rice  and  let  it  get  cold,  mix  with 
it  one-fourth  pound  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Sift  in  it  one  and  a  half  pints 
flour,  beat  five  eggs  separately,  stir  the  yolks  together  with  one  quart 
milk,  add  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  hard,  and  bake  at  once  in 
waffle-iron  on  Majestic  Range. 

Corn  Dodgers. — To  one  quart  corn  meal  add  a  little  salt  and  a 
small  tablespoon  lard;  scald  with  boiling  water  and  beat  hard  for  a  few 
minutes;  drop  a  large  spoonful  in  a  well-greased  pan.  The  batter  should 
be  thick  enough  to  just  flatten  on  the  bottom,  leaving  them  quite  high  in 
the  center.  Bake  in  a  hot  Majestic  Range  oven. 

Cracknells. — To  one  pint  of  rich  milk  put  two  ounces  butter  and 
spoon  of  yeast.  Make  it  warm,  and  mix  enough  fine  flour  to  make  a  light 
dough;  roll  thin  and  cut  in  long  pieces,  two  inches  broad.  Prick  well, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  in  Majestic  Range. 

Alabama  Jolmny-Cake. — Cook  a  pint  of  rice  till  tender  on  a 
Majestic  Range,  add  a  tablespoon  butter;  when  cold  add  t»wo  beaten  eggs 
and  one  pint  of  meal,  and  when  mixed  spread  on  an  oaken  board  and 
bake  by  tipping  the  board  up  before  an  open  fire.  When  done  on  one 
side  turn  over.  The  dough  should  be  spread  half  an  inch  thick. 

Jolmny-Cake. — Two-thirds  teaspoon  soda,  three  tablespoons  su- 
gar, one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one  egg,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  six  table- 
spoons Indian  meal,  three  tablespoons  flour  and  a  little  salt.  This  makes 
a  thin  batter.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Alabama  Rice  Fritters. — Four  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one  pint 
milk,  one  cup  boiled  rice,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  one  quart 
flour;  make  into  a  batter,  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  lard.  Cook  on  a 
Majestic  Range.  , 

Sauce. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  water,  stick  of  cin- 
namon ;  boil  until  clear. 

Apple  Fritters. — Make  a  batter  in  proportion  of  one  cup  sweet 
milk  to  two  cups  flour,  a  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  eggs 
beaten  separately,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  saltspoon  salt;  heat  the  milk 
a  little  more  than  milk-warm,  add  slowly  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar, 
then  add  flour  and  whites  of  eggs;  stir  all  together  and  throw  in  thin 
slices  of  good  sour  apples,  dipping  the  batter  up  over  them;  drop  in  boil- 
ing lard  in  large  spoonfuls  with  piece  of  apple  in  each  and  fry  to  a  light 
brown  on  a  Majestic  Ra,nge.  Serve  with  maple  syrup  or  a  nice  syrup 
made  of  sugar. 

Cream  Fritters.— One  and  a  half  pints  flour,  one  pint  milk,  six 
well-beaten  eggs,  one-half  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  salt,  one  pint  cream; 
stir  the  whole  enough  to  mix  the  cream;  fry  in  small  cakes  on  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Fritters.— Four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  quart  of  flour,  two  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  milk  to  make  a 
batter;  fry  in  hot  lard  on  a  Majestic  Range;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  or  eat 
with  syrup.  v 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  WINTER— '•  MAJESTIC." 


34 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  46. 

FOR  SOFT  COAL  OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  46HC. 

Has  no  water-front.     It  is  the  realization  of  all  that  is  good  and  hon- 
a  cooking  apparatus.    Is  perfect  in  construction,  operates  charm- 
ingly, and  will  do  service  for  from  twelve  to  fifteen  persons.     Top  cookin"- 
surf  ace  29x36  inches;  six  8-inch  lids;  oven  20  inches  wide,  21  inches  deep, 
iches  high;  mantel  shelf,  large  lower  warming  oven,  bailed  ash  pan 
heavy  diagonal  grates  and  fire-linings,  protecting  bar,  gravity  door  handle 
and  towel  rod.   ^lue  lined  with  pure  asbestos  board.    Made  almost  entirelv 
of  malleable  iron  and  wrought  steel. 

Price.  $48.00. 


Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchaiers-the  rate  varying  according  to  dlstance-from  2Bc  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  35 

Buckwheat  Cakes.— Buckwheat  flour  when  properly  ground  is 
perfectly  free  from  grits.  The  grain  should  be  run  through  the  smutter 
with  a  strong  blast  before  grinding,  and  the  greatest  care  taken  through 
the  whole  process.  Adulteration  with  rye  or  corn  cheapens  the  flour  but 
injures  the  quality.  The  pure  buckwheat  is  best  and  is  unsurpassed  for 
griddle-cakes.  To  make  batter,  warm  one  pint  sweet  milk  and  one  pint 
water  (one  may  be  cold  and  the  other  boiling) ;  put  half  the  mixture  in  a 
stone  crock,  add  five  teacups  buckwheat  flour,  beat  well  until  smooth,  add 
the  rest  of  the  milk  and  water,  and  last  a  teacup  of  yeast.  Or,  the  same 
ingredients  and  proportions  may  be  used  except  adding  two  tablespoons 
of  molasses  or  sugar,  and  using  one  quart  of  water  instead  of  one  pint 
each  of  milk  and  water.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

French  Pancakes. — Beat  together  till  smooth  six  eggs  and  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  melt  four  ounces  butter  and  add  to  the  batter  with  one 
ounce  of  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Put  a  ta- 
blespoon at  a  time  into  a  hot  frying-pan  slightly  greased,  spreading  the 
batter  evenly  over  the  surface  of  the  pan  by  tipping  k  about,  fry  to  a  light 
brown  on  a  Majestic  Range,  spread  with  jelly,  roll  it  up,  dust  it  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve  hot. 

Bread  Cakes. — Take  stale  bread  and  soak  over  night  in  sour  milk; 
in  the  morning  rub  through  a  colander,  and  to  one  quart  add  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  so'da,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  batter  little  thicker  than  for  buckwheat  cakes; 
add  last  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  bake  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Corn  Cakes. — One  pint  cornmeal,  one  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk, 
one  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  of  salt.  A  tablespoon  of  flour  or  corn 
starch  may  be  used  in  place  of  eggs.  Bake  on  a  griddle  on  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Flannel  Cakes. — Make  hot  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  into  it  put 
two  -heaping  tablespoons  butter,  let  melt,  then  add  a  pint  of  cold  milk, 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs — placing  the  whites  in  a  cold  place — a 
teaspoon  of  salt,  four  tablespoons  potato  yeast,  and  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter;  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  let  stand  three  hours  or 
over  night;  before  baking  add  the  beaten  whites;  fry  like  any  other  grid- 
dle-cakes on  a  Majestic  Range.  Be  sure  to  make  batter  stiff  enough,  for 
flour  must  not  be  added  in  the  morning  unless  it  is  allowed  to  rise  again. 

Indian  Pancakes. — One  pint  Indian  meal,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
small  teaspoon  soda; -pour  on  boiling  water  until  a  little  thinner  than 
mush;  let  stand  until  cool,  add  the  yolks  Qf  four  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  flour 
in  which  is  mixed  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar;  stir  in  as  much  sweet  milk 
or  water  as  will  make  the  batter  suitable  to  bake;  beat  the  whites  well 
and  add  just  before  baking  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Plantation  Buckwheat  Cakes.  —  One  quart  best  buckwheat 
flour,  one  handful  of  corn  meal,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter.  Mix  thoroughly;  cook  on  a  Majestic  Range,  as 
soon  as  ready. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  AWARDS—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  47. 

FOR  SOFT   COAL  OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  47HC. 


With  our  '-pin  extension"  water-front  connected  with  40  or  50  gallon 
pressure  boiler,  thig range  t-^-sr^^rsincrt^  furnishes  the  most  abun- 
dant supply  of  hot  water,  dHJHKMMBBigfl  and  it  is  not  too  much  to 
say.  thai  it  charms  the  M  cook  and  supplies  at  each 

meal  time  the  utmost  IHHHBB^P  wants  of  the  household. 
It  is  recommended  as  possessing  all  the  requisites  to  economical  house- 
keeping. 

Price,  $50.00. 


Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers-the  rate  varying  according  to  distance-from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  37 

Fried  Mush. — A  delicious  breakfast  relish  is  made  by  slicing  cold 
mush  thin  and  frying  in  a  little  hot  lard  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Or  dip  in 
beaten  eggs  salted  to  taste,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  drop  in 
hot  lard  like  doughnuts. 

Graham  Mush. — Sift  meal  slowly  into  boiling  salted  water,  stir- 
ring briskly  until  it  is  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred  with  one  hand ;  serve 
with  milk  or  cream  and  sugar,  or  butter  and  syrup.  It  is  much  improved 
by  removing  from  the  kettle  to  a  pan  as  soon  as  thoroughly  mixed,  and 
steaming  for  three  or  four  hours.  It  may  also  be  eaten  cold,  or  sliced  and 
fried  like  com  mush.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Oatmeal  Mush. — To  two  quarts  boiling  water  well  salted  add  one 
and  a  half  cups  best  oatmeal  (Irish,  Scotch,  Canadian  or  Akron  are  best)  ; 
stir  in  meal  by  degrees,  and  after  stirring  up  a  few  times  to  prevent  its . 
settling  down  in  a  mass  at  the  bottom,  leave  it  to  cook  three  hours  with- 
out stirring.  While  stirring  in  the  meal  put  inner  kettle  directly  on 
range.  (Cook  in  a  custard  kettle  with  water  in  outer  kettle).  To  cook 
for  breakfast  it  may  be  put  on  over  night,  allowing  it  to  boil  an  hour  or 
two  in  the  evening,  but  it  is  better  when  freshly  cooked.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar.  This  is  unsurpassed  as  a  breakfast  dish,  especially  for 
growing  children,  who  need  bone  and  muscle-producing  food.  To  be 
wholesome  it  must  be  well  cooked,  and  not  the  pasty,  half-cooked  mass 
usually  served  at  boarding-houses.  There  are  a  few  persons  with  very 
delicate  digestive  powers  who  should  eat  oatmeal  only  when  thoroughly 
pearled,  as  the  outer  husks  of  the  grain  irritate  the  coatings  of  the  stom- 
ach. In  lieu  of  a  custard  kettle  the  mush  may  be  made  in  a  pan  or  small 
tin  bucket,  and  then  placed  in  a  steamer  and  steamed  two  hours  on  a  Ma- 
jestic Range. 

Steamed  Oatmeal. — To  one  teacup  oatmeal  add  one  quart  cold 
water,  teaspoon  salt;  put  in  steamer  over  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  and 
steam  one  hour  and  a  half  on  a  Majestic  Range  after  meal  begins  to  cook. 

Cracked  Wheat. — Two  quarts  salted  water  to  two  cups  best  white 
winter  wheat;  boil  tAvo  or  three  hours  in  a  custard  kettle.  Or,  soak  over 
night  and  boil  at  least  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Or,  put  boiling  water  in 
a  pan  or  small  tin  bucket,  set  on  range,  stir  in  wheat,  set  in  steamer  and 
steam  four  hours.  Or,  make  a  strong  sack  of  thick  muslin  or  drilling, 
moisten  wheat  with  cold  water,  add  a  little  salt,  place  in  sack,  leaving 
half  the  space  for  wheat  to  swell  in.  Fit  a  round  sheet  of  tin,  perforated 
with  holes  half  an  inch  in  diameter,  to  the  inside  of  ordinary  kettle  so 
that  it  will  rest  two  or  three  inches  from  the  bottom;  lay  sack  on  the  tin, 
put  in  water  enough  to  reach  tin,  and  boil  from  three  to  four  hours,  sup- 
plying water  as  it  evaporates.  Serve  with  butter  and  syrup,  or  cream 
and  sugar.  When  cold,  slice  and  fry  on  a  Majestic  Range;  or  warm  with 
a  little  milk  and  salt  in  a  pan  greased  with  a  little  butter;  or  make  in 
griddle-cakes  with  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk,  a  little  flour  and  pinch  of  salt. 

Fine  White  Hominy  or  Grits. — Take  two  cups  to  two  quarts 
salted  water,  soak  over  night,  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  cus- 
tard kettle  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Serve  with  milk  and  sugar,  or  when 
cold  slice  and  fry. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  BAKING—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  48. 

FOR  SOFT   COAL   OR  WOOD. 

IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  48HC. 


In  all  things  pertaining 
eminent.     With    its    im-      ~ 
of  the  cook  can  be  nearly 
its  work  noiselessly,  and 
user.     With  its  15-gallon 
uients  the  hot  water  sup- 
other  respects   it  is  the 


to  culinary  matters  this  range  stands  pre- 
!fca^  provements  the  services 

dispensed  with;  it  does 
with  great  comfort  to  the, 
copper  reservoir  attach- 
ply  is  abundant.  In 
same  as  No.  46. 

Price,  $60.00. 


Prices     include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers-trie  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  39 


CAKES. 


Cup  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of 
flour,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, one  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon  or  white  rose.  Bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Plain  Fruit  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  one  of  brown  sugar,  one 
of  molasses,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  of 
nutmeg,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded ;  one  teaspoonful  each  extract  of 
rose  and  cinnamon,  one-half  of  cloves,  one-half  wineglass  of  brandy. 
Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  cream,  two 
cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon- 
ful extract  of  lemon.  Bake  quickly  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Pound  Sponge  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of 
flour,  nine  eggs,  juice  of  one  lemon;  stir  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  to  a 
cream ;  add  flour  and  lemon;  the  whites  last,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  a 
Majestic  Range. 

Quick  Sponge  Cake. — Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  su- 
gar, two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup 
of  cold  water,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon.  Bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

White  Sponge  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered  su- 
gar, one  cup  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  vanilla.  Bake  hi  a 
Majestic  Range. 

Marble  Cake. — White  Part. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour, 
whites  of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful 
extract  of  lemon. 

Dark  Part. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  two 
cups  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  two  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  whole  egg,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cloves,  one  of  extract  of  cinnamon ;  put  into  well-buttered  pan,  one 
teaspoonful  of  white,  one  of  dark,  until  all  is  used.  Bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Chocolate  Marble  Cake. — Whites  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  vanilla;  one- 
quarter  cake  of  chocolate  grated  and  mixed  into  one-half  of  the  batter; 
put  into  the  cake  pah  in  layers  of  dark,  then  white.  Bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  SHIPS— <•  MAJESTIC." 


40 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  49. 

FOB  SOFT  COAL  OK  WOOD. 


IF  FOE  HAED  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  49HC. 


Has  no  water-front.  This  range  is  made  more  particularly  for  the 
North  and  Northwestern  trade,  where  people  want  9-inch  lids  and  large 
ovens.  Top  cooking  surface  31x33  inches;  four  9-inch  lids  and  wide  key- 
plate;  oven  17  inches  wide,  23  inches  deep,  13  inches  high;  mantel  shelf, 
large  lower  warming  oven,  bailed  ash  pan,  heavy  diagonal  grates  and 
lire-linings,  protecting  bar,  gravity  door  handle  and  towel  rod.  Flue 
lined  with  pure  asbestos  board.  The  general  design  and  construction  is 
the  same  as  on  all  family  sizes.  Price,  $45.00. 

Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  41 

Bride's  Cake. — Three  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
of  sweet  milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  corn  starch,  whites  of 
twelve  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
extract  of  vanilla  and  leinon.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Black  or  Wedding  Cake. — One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one 
pound  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  twelve  eggs;  one 
pound  of  currants,  dredged;  two  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded;  one-half 
pound  of  citron,  cut  thin;  one-half  pound  tigs,  chopped;  one  pound 
almonds,  blanched  and  chopped;  one  glass  of  jelly,  one  wineglass  of 
brandy,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  nutmeg. 

Mix  all  well,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  brandy  last.  Bake  in  two 
loaves  in  a  Majestic  Range  four  hours,  or  longer  if  not  cooked  through. 
Will  keep  well  for  one  year. 

Angels'  Food  No.  1. — One  and  one-half  tumblers  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  tumbler  flour,  each  sifted  seven  times ;  in  the  last  sifting  put  in 
one  even  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar;  whites  of  eleven  eggs ;  flavor 
with  extract  of  almond  or  vanilla.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Angels'  Food  No.  2. — One  and  one-half  tumblers  of  sifted  pow- 
dered sugar,  one  tumbler  of  flour  sifted  four  times,  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  vanilla; 
beat  the  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar,  then  flour  and  baking  powder.  Do  not 
butter  the  pan.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Fig  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  three  cups  of  seeded  raisins,  one  pound  of  figs,  three  cups  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  egg.  Bake  slowly  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Imperial  Cake. — One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one 
pound  of  flour,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  nine  eggs,  one  pound  of 
blanched  almonds,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  one-half  pound  of  raisins, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Fruit  Cake. — Stir  to  a  cream  one  pound  each  of  brown  sugar  and 
butter  and  ten  eggs ;  one  wineglass  of  brandy,  one  of  wine ;  mix  in  one 
pound  of  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  add  two  pounds  of 
seeded  raisins,  two  of  currants,  one  of  citron,  one-quarter  of  almonds. 
One  teaspoonful  each  extract  of  rose  and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range  three  or  four  hours. 

Washington  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  brown  su- 

§ar.  one  cup  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  three  cups  of 
our,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one 
of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon.    Bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Hickory -Nut  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three 
cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  one  cup  of  nut  meats  cut  fine,  one-half  teaspoonful  extract  of 
almond.  Bake  in  a  Mejestic  Range. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  CARS—"  MAJESTIC." 


42 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  5O. 

FOR  SOFT  COAL  OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  50HC. 

Is  a  fac-simile  of  No.  49.  The  only  change,  to  which  we  call  atten- 
tion, is  for  the  guidance  j£^~^^^=^a  of  people  in  ordering. 
1  his  range  has  our  "pin  SHHBHHHBfl  extension  "  water  -  front 
fitted  with  nipples  ready  for  connection  with  pres- 

sure boiler,  and  if  prop-  erly  connected,  insures  a 


'  —     j: r  ^si  iv    OUll 

supply  of  hot  water  beyond  the  needs  of  any  one  family. 


Price,  $47.00. 


Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.    -Freight  must  be  paid  bj 
purchasers— the  rale  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  43 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  three-fourths  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one- half  cups  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  white  of  one; 
grate  one-quarter  of  a  cake  of  chocolate  into  one-half  cup  of  the  milk  and 
boil  until  thick.  Flavor  with  extract  of  vanilla  and  mix  into  the  batter. 
Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Cocoanut  Loaf  Cake. — One  pint  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  live  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one  cup  of  grated  cocoanut,  one-half  teaspoonful  extract 
of  almond.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Caramel  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  corn  starch,  whites  of 
seven  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract 
of  vanilla;  bake  in  long  pans.  One-half  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-half 
pound  of  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two 
teaspoonfuls  extract  of  vanilla ;  boil  until  thick  enough  to  spread ;  spread 
over  the  top  and  sides  of  cake.  Or  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of 
sweet  cream,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  boil 
until  it  sugars;  spread  over  top  and  sides.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

White  Cream  Cake. — Four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  sweet  cream,  three  cups  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
whites  of  ten  eggs;  flavor  with  extract  of  white  rose.  Bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

White  Pound  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour, 
one  pound  of  butter,  whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

White  Lady  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  flavor  with  extract  of  peach.  Bake  in 
a  Majestic  Range. 

White  Mountain  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  whites  of  ten  eggs,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  extract  of  almond.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

White  Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  each  of  flour,  butter,  white  sugar 
and  blanched  almonds,  two  pounds  of  citron,  one  grated  cocoanut,  whites 
of  sixteen  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  ex- 
tract of  white  rose.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Pound  Cake  No.  1. — One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
one  pound  of  flour,  sixteen  eggs — leaving  out  yolks  of  four — one  tea- 
spoonful  extract  of  lemon.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Pound  Cake  Xo.  2. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter, 
one  pound  of  flour,  twelve  eggs  beaten  separately  very  light,  one  wine- 
glass of  brandy.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Citron  Cake. — One  quart  of  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  oi 
sugar,  twelve  eggs,  one  cup  of  cream,  one  glass  of  wine,  one  teaspoonful 
extract  of  almond,  one  cup  of  chopped  citron.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  HOTELS— '•  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  51. 

FOR  SOFT   COAI,  OK  WOOD. 

IT  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  51HO. 


H;i-  our  15-gallon  copper 
which  is  the  absence  of 
back;  such  connections 
account  of  filling  with 
or  freezing  :u.d  bursting, 
this  trouble  cannot  occur; 
the  reservoir  is  safe  and 
dimensions,  see  No.  49. 


reservoir,  the  recommending  feature  of 
nipples  and  closed  water- 
giving  trouble  to  users  on 
sediment  and  burning  out, 
With  our  new  connection 
the  heater  being  open  to 
readily  cleanable.  For 
Price,  $55.00. 


Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance-from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


Doughnuts. — One  pound  of  butter,  one  and  three-quarters  fff  a 
pound  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  yeast,  one 
teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon.  Mix  together  butter,  sugar,  milk,  yeast 
and  one  quart  of  flour.  Set  to  raise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  the 
eggs  well-beaten,  then  the  flavoring,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough;  let  rise  three  hours;  roll  thick  and  fry  on  a  Majestic  Range  in  hot ' 
lard. 

Fried  Cakes  No.  1. — Take  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  lard,  one  quart  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of 
cinnamon.  Fry  in  hot  lard  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Fried  Cakes  Xo.  2. — One  quart  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon.  Fry  in  hot  lard 
on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Ginger  Snaps.  -One  and  one-quarter  cups  of  flour,  one-quarter 
cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one-half  pint  of  molasses, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  extract  of 
Jamaica  ginger.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Ginger  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  lard,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger, 
two  eggs,  three  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  flour  to  roll  thick. 
Bake  in  quick  Majestic  Range  oven. 

Fruit  Ginger  Bread. — Two  pounds  of  flour,  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar;  one  pound  of  raisins,  seeded  and 
chopped;  one  pound  of  currants,  two  cups  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of 
sour  cream,  six  eggs,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon;  mix  well. 
Add  the  fruit  last,  well  dredged  with  flour.  Beat  well,  and  bake  in  tin 
pans  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Ginger  Bread. — One  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  boiling  water,  one  egg,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  each  essence  of  Jamaica 
ginger  and  extract  of  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Soft  Sugar  Ginger  Bread. — One  cup  of  molasses  and  two  cups 
of  sugar  beaten  together,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
four  eggs,  five  cups  of  flour,  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of 
ground  ginger.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Sponge  Ginger  Bread  (Eggless).  —  Five  cups  of  flour,  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
two  teaspoonfuls  extract  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon ; 
beat  very  light,  and  bake  in  broad,  shallow  pans  in  a  Majestic  Range. 
Half  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  cut  fine,  added  to  this  will  make  a  de- 
licious tea  bread. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  INSTITUTIONS—"  MAJESTIC," 


46 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  52. 

FOR  SOFT   COAL   OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  52HC. 

Has  no  water-front.  Top  cooking  surface  31  x  36  inches ;  six  9-inch 
lids;  oven  20  inches  wide,  23  inches  deep,  13  inches  high;  mantel  shelf, 
large  lower  warming  oven,  bailed  ash  pan,  heavy  diagonal  grates  and 
fire-linings,  protecting  bar,  gravity  door  handle  and  towel  rod.  Flue 
lined  with  pure  asbestos  board.  Made  almost  entirely  of  malleable  iron 
and  wrought  steel.  This  range  is  amply  large  to  do  the  cooking  for  fami- 
lies of  fifteen  to  twenty  persons. 

Price,  $54.00. 

Prices     include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  47 

Coffee  Cake. — One  cup  of  coffee  or  two  tablespoonfuls  extract  of 
coffee,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  of  rais- 
ins, one  of  currants,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoonful 
extract  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  cloves,  four  eggs,  one-half 
teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Clove  Cake. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sour 
cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Spice  Cake. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup 
butter,  one  of  milk,  one  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  three  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Mottled  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter, 
whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  peach;  take  one- half  of  the  batter  and 
stir  in  one  teaspoonful  fruit  coloring;  fill  the  buttered  cake  pan  by  put- 
ting in  one  spoonful  of  white,  then  one  of  pink,  until  all  the  batter  is  in. 
Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Lunch  Cake. — Four  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfnls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon- 
ful extract  of  peach.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Gold  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups 
of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of 
lemon.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Delicate  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  corn  starch,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  whites  of  six  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  fla- 
vor with  one-half  teaspoonful  extract  of  almond.  Bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Rolled  Jelly  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar  and  two  eggs  creamed; 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon.  Bake,  in  a 
Majestic  Range,  in  a  dripping  pan  in  quick  oven;  when  cool  spread  with 
jelly  and  roll. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  of 
butter,  one-half  of  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  three  eggs,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon.  Bake 
in  layers  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Filling . — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one 
lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Boil  until 
it  thickens ;  cool  and  spread  between  the  layers. 

Orange  Cake. — Make  cake  part  the  same  as  for  lemon  cake.  Bake 
in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Filling. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  one  orange,  half  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  teaspoonfuls  extract 
of  orange.  Spread  between  layers. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  RESTAURANTS—"  MAJESTIC." 


48 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.    53. 

FOB  SOFT  COAL,  OR  WOOD. 


IF  FOE  HARD  COAL  OK  WOOD  No.  53HC. 


The  top  cooking  surface,  etc.,  is  accurately  given  under  No.  52.  _  No 
doubt  readers  will  have  £&r&£&^&xa£v%.  n°tice<!  t^e  striking  simi- 
larity in  their  construct-  ®Bn9»9^^H||H  ive  features;  in  fact,  one 
of  the  strong  points  we  V|  "  rnake  in  recommending 

our  ranges  to  the  public  •••^•••l^  is,  that  the  parts  are 
nearly  interchangeable  one  with  the  other,  as  is  the  case  with  our  "  pin 
extension  "  water-front  in  this  range.  The  testimony  of  users  is  alto- 
gether in  its  favor.  Price,  $56.00. 


Prices     include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


ICING   FOR  CAKE. 


Boiled  Frosting. — One  pint  of  granulated  sugar  with  enough 
water  to  dissolve  it.  Let  it  boil  on  a  Majestic  Range  until  it  threads  from 
the  spoon.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff  and  pour  the  boiling  sugar 
into  it,  beating  all  the  time. 

Cream  Frosting  — Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  an  equal 
measure  of  cold  water,  stir  into  this  confectioners'  sugar  until  the  right 
consistency  to  spread.  Flavor  with  one-half  teaspoonful  extract  of 
vanilla. 

The  Best  Icing. — One  pound  of  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs ;  beat 
the  whites  until  frothy,  not  white,  add  the  sugar  gradually  with  one  hand 
while  you  beat  with  the  other.  Flavor  with  extract  of  lemon  or  almond. 

Frosting. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  corn  starch.  Beat  all  together  until  stiff,  and  frost  the  cake 
while  hot. 

Soft  Icing. — Ten  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  to  one  egg;  beat  twenty 
minutes.  Flavor  with  extract  of  rose. 

Almond  Icing. — Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  almonds, 
blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste ;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  stir 
in  the  sugar  and  almonds.  Flavor  with  extract  of  rose. 

Water  Icing. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  water  enough  to  make  a  thick 
paste,  a  small  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  well;  if  not  stiff  enough, 
add  more  sugar.  Flavor  with  one-half  teaspoonful  extract  of  peach. 

Chocolate  Icing. — Melt  three  ounces  of  chocolate  in  a  little  water, 
boil  in  two  cups  of  sugar,  stir  in  the  whites  of  three  well-beaten  eggs. 
Flavor  with  extract  of  vanilla. 

Orange  Cake  Frosting. — Yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  very  light 
and  made  stiff  with  pulverized  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract; 
put  on  the  cake  while  warm. 

Gelatine  Icing. — Dissolve  one  tablespoonful  gelatine  in  one-half 
cup  boiling  water,  and  strain ;  thicken  with  powdered  sugar,  and  flavor. 

Chocolate  Icing. — One  cup  milk;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add 
one  cup  grated  chocolate;  when  chocolate  is  dissolved,  add  one  and  a 
half  cups  pulverized  sugar,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs ;  after  it  has  been  taken 
from  the  stove,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Crystallization. — Crystallization  consists  in  simply  covering  the 
cake  while  the  icing  is  wet  with  granulated  sugar,  plain  or  pink.  Or  you 
can  use  pink  or  white  sugar,  or  rock  candy  crushed.  If  you  wish  to  crys- 
tallize only  a  portion  of  the  icing,  and  that  in  any  particular  design,  first 
allow  the  icing  to  dry,  then  wash  the  part  you  wish  crystallized  with 
white  of  egg  or  gum  water,  and  cover  it  with  the  sugar ;  then  shake  off 
what  will  not  remain  on. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  SCIENCE—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  No.  54. 

FOR  SOFT  COAL   OK  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  No.  54HC. 


•  Is  the  last  of  the  series  of  family  ranges,  the  description  of  which 

i*   fully    ~et  forth   under     jj|^^  No.  52.     With  its  r 

Ion  copp.T  ivservoir,  as        1^^^^^,  shown,  it    is    admirably 

adapted  for  small  restau-  4ftHJl      ^H  ranls  and  hotels,  or  fam- 

ili<>>  who  do  cooking  for    WIT  twenty    to    twenty  -  live 

pcr.-on.s.      As  of  all  our      ^§58    ,  j  family  ranges,  we    rec- 

ommend Xo.  54.  ^***i;<i<jyp 

Price,  $65.00. 


Prices     Include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Frieght  must  be  pa|d  by 
purchasers-the  rate  varying  according  to  distance-from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  51 


PASTRY. 


In  n\aking  pastry,  care  should  be  taken  to  handle  it  as  little  as  possi- 
ble. The  surest  way  to  make  a  good  crust  is  to  chop  it  together  without 
putting  the  hands  into  it.  The  water,  butter  or  lard  should  always  be 
cold. 

Pie  Crust  Xo.  1. — To  one  pint  of  flour  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  mix  in  one  cup  of  butter  or  lard  wet  with  ice  water.  Will 
make  two  pies. 

Pie  Crust  Xo.  3. — Three  cups  of  flour,  o^ieaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  of  cream,  one-half  cup  of  butter.  Kofi 
thin. 

Pie  Crust  Xo.  3. — Four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of^fe.utter.  one  cup 
of  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  of  water.  Chop  togethdBtad  roll  thin.- 

Pic  Crust  Xo.  4. — One  quart  of  flour,  one  cup  of,Iajj£l,  one-hnlf 
cup  of  ,butte^a  pinch  of  salt,  ice  water  to  wet.  Chop  tog'eljjer.  and  roll 
thin.  r^ 

Puff  Paste  <3N"o.  1. — One  pound  of  flour  to  be  rnixedgrith  ice  water, 
roll  and  spread  with  one  pound  of  butter.  Fold  over,  aud~roll  until  but- 
ter is  all  mixed  in.. 

Puff  Paste  Xo.  2. — Three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  egg;  mix  flour  and  egg  with  ice  water: 
roll  out  and  put  on  butter  in  small  bits,  fold  ovef  and  roll.  Put  on  ice  for 
twenty  minutes.  Roll  thick.  • 

Apple  Pie. — Peel  and  slice  very  thin  apples  enough  to  fill  a  pie  tin; 
line  pan  with  crust,  put  in  the  apples,  cover  with  sugar  and  ground  cin- 
namon; cover  with  crust;  bake  in  a  Majestic  Kange. 

Lemon  Pie. — Grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  use  the  juice,  or  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  extract  of  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful-of 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  four  eggs,  mix;  pour  into  pans  lined 
with  crust,  and  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range.  When  done,  spread  the  top 
with  white  of  one  egg,  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  brown. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie. — Boil  one  pint  of  milk,  add  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  corn  starch;  when  boiled,  take  from  range  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  two 
lemons  and  rind  of  one  grated;  pour  into  rich  crust:  bake  twenty  min- 
utes in  a  Majestic  Range.  Whip  the  whites  of  four  eggs  with  one  cup  of 
sugar.  Spread  over  the  top  and  brown. 

Cream  Pie  Xo.  1. — Three  glasses  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn  starch,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  extract  of  lemon,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  boil  until  thick;  pour  into  a  baked  crust:  whip  the  whites 
with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  spread  on  top.  Bake  brown  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

'  MAJESTIC  "—IN  DETAIL—"  MAJESTIC." 


52  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Cream  Pie.— Stir  to  a  cream  one-half  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  add  two  well -beateu -eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
two  cups  of  milL,  two  teaspoonfuls  extract  of  orange.  Pour  into  pans 
lined  with  crust;  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Custard  Pie. — One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  one  teaspoonftil  extract  of  lemon.  Bake  in  pans  lined  with 
plain  crust  in  a  Majestic  Range.  *  ^, 

Chocolate  Pie. — Four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one  pint 
of  water,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  boil  until  thick;  add  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  vanilla; 
bake  the  crust,  pour  in  the  chocolate.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with 
one  cup  of  sugar,  spread  over  top,  and  brown  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Marlborougli  Pie. — Six  macaroons,  roll  fine;  one  cup  of  stewed 
apples,  three  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  cream,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of 
almond,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  citron ;  mix.  Line  deep  pan  with 
crust,  pour  in  the  mixture;  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Cocoanut  Pie. — One-half  pound  of  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  grated  cocoanut.  one  teaspoonful 
extract  of  rose,  mix;  pour  into  pan  lined  with  crust;  bake  in  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Boil  ripe  pumpkin  until  tender,  and  rub  through 
a  colander;  one  pint  of  pumpkin,  one  pint  of  cream,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  ginger.  Pour  into  pans  lined  with 
crust;  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie.— One  pint  of  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  nut- 
une-half  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon.  Pour  into  a  pan  lined  with 
crust;  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Mince  Pie  Meat. — Boil  two  pounds  of  good  meat  tender;  chop 
fine  AVhen  cold;  one-half  pound  of  suet,  chopped  fine;  one  tablespoonful 
of  cloves,  one  of  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  each  extract  of  cinnamon  and 
ginger,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  wine,  one  of 
brandy,  two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one  pound 
of  citron,  chopped  fine;  two  pounds  of  tart  apples,  chopped  fine;  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  of  allspice,  mix  well; 
put  in  stone  jars  and  cover.  Will  keep  all  winter. 

Cherry  Pie. — Line  the  pan  with  good  crust  and  fill  with  ripe  cher- 
rir-s.  stoned;  regulate  the  quantity  of  sugar  you  scatter  over  them  by  their 
sweetni --s.  Cover,  and  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range.  When  cold  sift  pow- 
dered sujrar  over  upper  crust. 

Blaekberry,  Raspberry  and  Plum  pies  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

Peach  Pie. — Line  a  pie  tin  with  crust,  slice  the  peach  and  put 
sugar  enough  over  to  sweeten,  allow  three  peach  kernels  to  a  pic.  add  a 
little  water;  bake  with  cross-bars  of  crust  across  the  top  in  a  Majestic 
Range.  Can  be  made  from  canned  peaches. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  GREATNESS—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK, 

Strawberry  Pie. — Put  a  thin,  round,  ten-inch  wide  flat  of  feuil- 
letage  on  a  baking-sheet;  wet  the  edge,  then  lay  on  this  a  rim  of  the 
sauce-paste  a  third  of  an  inch  thick  and  an  inch  wide,  and  make  the  ends 
adhere;  pick  three  pints  of  large  and  not  too  ripe  strawberries,  roll  them 
in  fresh  butter  and  powdered  sugar,  put  in  the  centre  of  the  cake  in  dome 
form,  wet  the  rim.  and  cover  with  another  thin  flat  of  feuilletage;  press 
gently  with  the  thumbs  over  the  rim,  trim  the  edge,  baste  the  surface  with 
..  hite,  besprinkle  with  white  granulated  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erately heated  Majestic  Kange  oven  for  half  an  hour  without  allowing  the 
surface  to  brown.  The  flats  of  paste  should  be  only  about  an  eighth  of  an 
inch  thick,  because  this  fruit  requires  no  cooking. 

Orange  Pie. — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  oranges,  four  eggs, 
four  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  one  of  butter;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  beaten  eggs,  then  the  rind  and  juice  of  the  oranges,  and,  lastly, 
the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth  and  mixed  in  lightly.  Bake  with  an  under 
crust  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Tart. — Three  cups  of  currants,  one 
cup  of  raspberries,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  bake  Avith  under  and 
upper  crust  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Tarts. — Use  the  best  puff  paste  for  tarts,  roll  thick,  and  bake  in 
small  pans  in  a  Majestic  Range;  fill  with  jam,  jelly  or  cream. 

Cream  Tarts. — Fill  tart  shells  with  whipped  cream;  put  a  spoon- 
ful of  jelly  on  top  of  cream.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Tart  Shells. — Roll  thin  good  puff  paste,  cut  out  with  a  glass;  then 
with  a  wineglass  cut  out  the  center  of  small  ones;  lay  on  top  of  each 
other,  and  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range.  Fill  with  jelly  or  jam. 

Almond  Tarts. — Beat  to  a  cream  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  add  one-half  pound  of  pounded  almonds, 
one  teaspoonful  extract  of  almond;  put  in  tart  tins  lined  with  paste;  bake 
ten  minutes  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Cocoanut  Tarts. — Dissolve  one-half  pound  of  sugar  in  one-half 
pint  of  water,  add  one  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,"boil;  when  cool,  add 
the  yolks  of  three  and  white  of  one  egg;  mix,  and  pour  into  tart  tins 
lined  with  crust;  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Cheese  Cakes. — One  cup  of  grated  cocoanut.  one  cup  of  milk  curds, 
one  cup  of  cream,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
extract  of  almonds;  boil  until  thick;  pour  into  tart  tins  lined  with  puff 
paste ;  bake  ten  minutes  in  a  Majestic  Range.  Orange  or  lemon  can  be 
used  in  place  of  cocoanut. 

Strawberry  Short-Cake. —One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  three  table- 
spoonsfuls  of  butter,  and  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough;  bake  in  two  layers, 
one  on  top  of  the  other,  with  butter  between,  in  a  Majestic  Range;  when 
cool,  split  open,  with  a  knife  and  cover  with  berries  sprinkled  with  sugar, 
put  other  layer  of  crust  on  top  and  cover  with  herrio. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  ITS  ENTIRETY— "  MAJESTIC." 


54  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


DUMPLINGS. 


Apple  Dumplings.— Make  a  soft  dough;  peel  and  core  tart  apples; 
wrap  each  apple  in  the  dough,  drop  in  boiling  water;  eat  with  sauce. 

Steamed  Apple  Dumplings.— M-nke  a  good  baking  powder  crust, 
peel  and  core  tart  apples,  fill  the  cavity  in  apples  with  sugar,  wrap  cai-h 
in  the  dough,  and  steam  one  hour  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Serve  with  but- 
ter and  sugar  .sauce. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings.  — Make  as  for  steamed  dumplings: 
put  in  pan  so  as  not  to  touch;  bake  brown  in  a  Majestic  llange.  Serve 
with  cream  sauce, 

Peach  Dumplings. — Make  the  same  crust  as  for  apple  dumplings. 
Use  canned  peaches,  put  a  little  piece  of  butter  with  same  and  a  little 
sugar,  cover  in  dough,  and  bake  in  a  Majestic  Eange.  Serve  with  foam- 
ing sauce. 

Bar  Berries. — Make  a  crust  as  for  pie,  roll  out  quite  thin  and  cut 
in  rounds  with  the  top  of  a  pint  pail,  if  you  are  not  fortunate  enough  to 
have  a  cutter  the  requisite  size.  On  these  rounds  pour  a  good  tablespoon- 
ful  of  this  mixture.  One  cup  of  stoned  and  chopped  raisins,  one  piece  of 
citron  about  the  size  of  a  trade  dollar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  mix  all  well. 
Alter  putting  it  on  the  paste,  wrap  it  together,  thus  making  a  sort  of  little 
turn  over.  Do  not  cut  any  vent  in  the  dough,  but  press  the  edges  so 
firmly  together  that  not  a  drop  can  escape.  When  all  are  laid  side  by 
side  in  a  pan  or  baking  tin,  wet  them  over  with  milk  in  which  a  little 
sugar  is  dissolved;  this  gives  them  a  lovely  brown  when  baked  in  a 
Majestic  llange. 

Boiled  Apple  Dumplings. — Add  to  two  cups  sour  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  and  one  of  salt,  half  cup  of  butter,  lard,  flour  enough  to 
make  dough  a  little  stiffer  than  for  biscuit:  or  make  a  good  baking  pow- 
der crust;  peel  and  core  apples,  roll  out  crust,  place  apples  on  dough,  fill 
cavity  of  each  with  sugar,  encase  each  apple  in  coating  of  the  crust,  press 
edges  tight  together  (it  is  nice  to  tie  a  cloth  around  each  one),  put  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  boil  half  an  hour  on  a  Majestic 
Range,  taking  care  that  the  water  covers*  the  dumplings.  They  are  also 
very  nice  steamed.  To  bake,  make  in  the  same  way,  using  a  soft  dough, 
place  in  a  shallow  pan,  bake  in  a  hotoven,  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar, 
or  place  in  a  pan  four  or  five  inches  deep  (do  not  have  the  dumplings 
touch  each  other)  ;  then  pour  in  hot  water,  just  leaving  top  of  dumplings 
uncovered.  To  a  pan  of  four  or  five  dumplings,  add  one  teacupful  sugar 
and  half  a  teacupful  butter;  bake  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
in  a  Majestic  Range.  If  water  cooks  away  too  much,  add  more.  Serve 
dumplings  on  platter  and  the  liquid  in  sauce-boat  for  dressing.  Fresh  or 
canned  peaches  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  ART—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  55 


DELICIOUS  DESSERTS. 


DINNER. 


SPRING. 

Sunday — Brown  Top  Pudding;  Lemon  Cakes. 
Monday — Almond  Custard. 

Tuesday — Italian  Cream;  Pink  and  White  Cake. 

Wednesday — Graham  Pudding;  Lemon  Sauce. 

Thursday — Fruit  Charlotte ;  White  Sponge  Cake. 
Friday — Malborough  Pie. 

Saturday — Baked  Apple  Dumplings. 

SUMMER. 

Sunday — Strawberry  Short  Cake;  Pine  Apple  Sherbert. 
Monday — Blackberry  Pie. 

Tuesday — Peach  Cottage  Pudding;  Hard  Brandy  Sauce. 
Wednesday — Roman  Punch;  Angels'  Food. 

Thursday — Fruit  Cream;  Almond  Drops. 

Friday — Charlotte  Rwsse;  Pound  Cake. 

Saturday — Cherry  Pie;  King  Jumbles. 

AUTUMN. 

Sunday— Peach  Ice  Cream;  Caramel  Cake. 
Monday — Custard  Pie. 

Tuesday — Railroad  Pudding;  White  Wine  Sauce. 
Wednesday — Cocoanut  Pie;  Sugar  Cookies. 

Thursday — Apple  Fritter;  Foaming  Sauce. 
Friday — Pumpkin  Pie. 

Saturday — Velvet  Blanc  Mange. 

WINTER. 

Sunday — Delmonico  Pudding;  Hard  Brandy  Sauce. 
Monday — Neapolitan  Blanc  Mange. 

Tuesday — Steamed  Fruit  Pudding;  Wine  Jelly. 
Wednesday — Tipsy  Pudding;  Macaroons. 
Thursday — Mince  Pie. 

Friday — Tapioca  Cream. 

Saturday — Indian  Pudding. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  COMBINATIONS—"  MAJESTIC." 


56 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC   COMBINATION  REVOLVING  BKOILEU. 


MAJESTIC   COMBINATION  REVOLVING  WAFFLE   IRON. 


This  Broiler  can  be  used  on  any  of  our  family  ranges,  and  te  the 
sence  of  simplicity.    Both  Waffle  and  Broiler  revolve  in  frame,  and  are 
interchangeable. .  When  meats  are  broiled  remove  Broiler  and  put  in  the 
les.    For  broiling,  plaee  tin  cover  over  the  Broiler,  close  all  front 
fts,  open  direct  draft  damper  in  range,  and  air  is  taken  through  open- 
ings in  cover,  carrying  all  smoke  and  fumes  into  smoke  pipe  direct. 

Price,  complete,  $4.50. 


"  MAJESTIC"— IN  REASON—"  MAJESTIC.' 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  57 


MEATS. 


Broiled  Beefsteak. — Lay  a  thick,  tender  steak  upon  a  gridiron 
well  greased  with  butter  or  beef  suet,  over  hot  coals ;  when  done  on  one 
side  have  ready  the  warmed  platter  with  a  little  butter  on  it,  lay  the  steak, 
without  pressing  it,  upon  the  platter  with  the  cooked  side  down  so  that 
the  juices  which  have  gathered  may  run  on  the  platter;  quickly  place  it 
again  on  gridiron  and  cook  the  other  side.  When  done  to  liking,  put  on 
platter  again,  spread  lightly  with  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
place  where  it  will  keep  warm  (over  boiling  steam  is  best)  for  a  few  mo- 
ments, but  do  not  let  butter  become  oily.  Serve  on  hot  plates.  Many 
prefer  to  sear  on  one  side,  turn  immediately  and  sear  the  other,  and  fin- 
ish cooking,  turning  often;  garnish  with  fried  sliced  potatoes,  or  with 
browned  potato  balls  the  size  of  a  marble,  piled  at  each  end  of  platter. 
Broil  on  a  Majestic  Broiler. 

Fried  Beefsteak.— When  the  means  to  broil  are  not  at  hand,  the 
next  best  method  is  to  heat  the%  frying  pan  very  hot,  put  in  steak  pre- 
viously hacked,  let  remain  a  few*  moments,  loosen  with  knife  and  turn 
quickly  several  times ;  repeat  this,  and  when  done  transfer  to  a  hot  plat- 
ter, salt,  pepper,  and  put  over  it  bits  of  butter;  pile  the  steaks  one  on  top 
of  another,  and  cover  with  a  hot  platter.  This  way  of  frying  is  both 
healthful  and  delicate.  Or,  heat  the  skillet,  trim  off  the  fat  from  the 
steak,  cut  in  small  bits  and  set  on  to  fry  on  a  Majestic  Range;  meanwhile 
pound  steak,  then  draw  the  bits  of  suet  to  one  side  and  put  in  the  steak, 
turn  quickly  over  several  times  so  as  to  sear  the  outside,  take  out  on  a  hot 
platter  previously  prepared  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  well,  return  to 
skillet,  repeating  the  operation  until  the  steak  is  done;  dish  on  a  hot 
platter,  covering  with  another  platter,  and  place  where  it  will  keep  hot 
while  making  the  gravy.  Place  a  tablespoon  dry  flour  in  the  skillet,  be- 
ing sure  to  have  the  fat  boiling  hot,  stir  until  brown  and  free  from  lumps 
(the  bits  of  suet  may  be  left  in,  drawing  them  to  one  side  until  the  flour  is 
browned),  pour  in  about  half  a  pint  boiling  water  (milk  or  cream  is  bet- 
ter), stir  well,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  in  a  gravy  tureen. 
Spread  bits  of  butter  over  steak  and  send  to  table  at  once.  This  is  more 
economical,  but  not  so  wholesome  as  broiling. 

Beefsteak  Smothered  in  Onions.— Slice  the  onions  thin  and 
drop  in  cold  water;  put  steak  in  pan  with  a  little  suet.  Skim  out  onions 
and  add  to  steak,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  tightly  and  put  over 
the  fire.  When  the  juice  of  the  onions  has  dried  up  and  the  meat  has 
browned  on  one  side,  remove  onions,  turn  steak,  replace  onions  and  fry 
on  a  Majestic  Range  till  done,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 

Boiled  Corned  Beef. — Soak  over  night  if  very  salt,  but  if  beef  is 
young  and  properly  corned  this  is  not  necessary;  pour  over  it  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  it  well,  after  washing  off  the  salt.  The  rule  for  boiling 
meats  is  twenty-five  minutes  to  a  pound,  but  corned  beef  should  be  placed 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  ENDURANCE—"  MAJESTIC." 


63  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

on  a  part  of  the  range  where  it  will  simmer,  not  boil,  uninterruptedly 
from  four  to  six  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  piece.  If  to  be  served 
cold,  some  let  the  meat  remain  in  the  liquor  until  cold,  and  some  let 
tough  beef  remain  in  the  liquor  until  the  next  day,  and  bring  it  to  the 
boiling  point  just  before  serving.  Simmer  a  brisket  or  plate-piece  until 
the  bones  are  easily  removed,  fold  over,  forming  a  square  or  oblong  piece, 
place  sufficient  weight  on  top  to  press  the  parts  closely  together  and  set 
where  it  will  become  cold.  This  gives  a  firm,  solid  piece  to  cut  in  slices 
and  is  a  delightful  relish.  Boil  liquor  down,  remove  the  fat,  season  with 
pepper  or  sweet  herbs  and  save  it  to  pour  over  finely  minced  scraps  and 
pieces  of  beef;  press  the  meat  firmly  into  a  mold,  pour  over  it  the  liquor, 
and  place  over  it  a  close  cover  with  a  weight  upon  it.  When  turned  from 
the  mold  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  or  celery,  and  serve  with  fancy 
pickles  or  French  mustard.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. — In  a  piece  of  the  rump  cut  deep  openings  with  a 
sharp  knife;  put  in  pieces  of  pork  cut  into  dice,  previously  rolled  in  pep- 
per, salt,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Into  an  iron  stewpan  lay  pieces  of  pork, 
sliced  onions,  slices  of  lemon,  one  or  two  carrots  and  a  bay  leaf;  lay  the 
meat  on  and  put  over  it  a  piece  of  bread  crust  as  large  as  the  hand,  a  half 
pint  wine  and  a  little  vinegar,  and  afterwarde  an  equal  quantity  of  water 
or  broth,  till  the  meat  is  half  covered;  cover  the  dish  close  and  cook  till 
tender.  Then  take  it  out,  rub  the  gravy  thoroughly  through  a  sieve, 
skim  off  the  fat,  add  some  sour  cream,  return  to  the  stewpan  and  cook  ten 
minutes  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Instead  of  the  cream,  capers  or  sliced  cu- 
cumber pickles  can  be  added  to  the  gravy  if  preferred,  or  a  handful  of 
f  rated  ginger  bread  or  rye  bread.  The  meat  can  also  be  laid  for  some 
ays  before  in  a  spiced  vinegar  or  wine  pickle. 

Roast  Beef. — Take  a  rib  piece  or  loin  roast  of  seven  to  eight 
pounds.  Beat  it  thoroughly  all  over,  lay  it  in  the  roasting  dish  and  baste 
it  with  melted  butter.  Put  it  inside  the  well-heated  Majestic  Range 
oven,  and  baste  frequently  with  its  own  fat,  which  will  make  it  brown 
and  tender.  If,  when  it  is  cooking  fast  the  gravy  is  growing  too  brown, 
turn  a  glass  of  German  cooking  wine  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  re- 
peat this  as  often  as  the  gravy  cooks  away.  The  roast  needs  about  two 
hours  time  to  be  done,  and  must  be  bro\vn  outside,  but  inside  still  a  little 
red.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  over  it,  and 
also  turn  the  gravy  upon  it,  after  skimming  off  all  fat. 

Stewed  Beef. — Take  a  piece  of  the  rump,  pound  it  till  tender,  lay 
in  an  iron  vessel  previously  lined  with  slices  of  pork  and  onions,  with  a 
few  pepper-corns,  dredge  it  with  salt,  and  baste  with  melted  butter. 
Cover  close  over  a  good  heat,  and  when  it  has  fried  a  nice  brown  add  one 
pint  German  cooking  wine  and  as  much  more  good  soup  stock  and  stew  it 
till  soft  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Before  serving,  take  out  the  meat,  skim  off 
the  fat,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with  broth,  add  gradu- 
ally still  more  broth,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  and  turn  over  the  pre- 
viously dished  meat.  The  meat  can  be  laid  for  some  days  before  in  vine- 
gar or  in  a  spiced  pickle,  or  be  basted  with  either  occasionally  instead  of 
lying  in  it. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  MATERIAL—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  59 

A  Brown  Stew. — Put  on  range  a  rather  thick  piece  of  beef  with 
little  bone  and  some  fat;  four  hours  before  needed  pour  on  just  boiling 
\vater  enough  to  cover;  cover  with  a  close  fitting  lid,  boil  gently,  and  as 
the  water  boils  away  add  only  just  enough  from  time  to  time  to  keep  from 
burning,  so  that  when  the  meat  is  tender  the  water  may  all  be  boiled 
away,  as  the  fat  will  allow  the  meat  to  brown  Avithout  burning;  turn  oc- 
casionally, brown  evenly  over  a  slow  fire  in  a  Majestic  Kange,  and  make 
a  gravy  by  stirring  Hour  and  water  together  and  adding  to  the  drippings; 
season  with  salt  an  hour  before  it  is  done. 

Fried  Liver. — Cut  in  thin  slices  and  place  on  a  platter,  pour  on 
boiling  water  and  immediately  pour  it  off  (this  seals  the  outside,  takes 
away  the  iinpleasant  flavor  and  makes  it  much  more  palatable) ;  have 
ready  in  skillet  on  the  range  some  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings,  or  both  to- 

f  ether,  dredge  the  liver  with  rolled  crackers  or  dried  bread  crumbs  rolled 
ne  and  nicely  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  put  in  skillet,  placing  the 
tin  cover  on,  fry  slowly  until  both  sides  are  dark  brown,  when  the  liver 
will  be  thoroughly  cooked.    The  time  required  is  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  on  a  Majestic  Kange. 

Boiled  Mutton  with  Caper  Sauce. — Have  ready  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  and  throw  in  a  handful  of  salt ;  wash  a  leg  of  mutton  and  rub 
salt  through  it.  If  it  is  to  be  rare,  cook  about  two  hours;  if  well  done, 
three  hours  or  longer,  according  to  size.  Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  thicken 
with  flour  well  blended,  add  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  two  tablespoons  of 
capers,  or  mint  sauce  if  preferred. 

Lamb  Stewed  with  Peas. — Cut  the  neck  or  breast  in  pieces,  put 
it  in  a  stewpan  with  some  salt  pork  sliced  thin  and  enough  water  to  cover 
it;  cover  close  and  let  stew  on  a  Majestic  Range  until  the  meat  is  tender, 
then  skim  free  from  scum,  add  a  quart  of  green  peas  shelled,  and  more 
hot  water  if  nece>.-ary ;  cover  till  the  peas  are  done  tender,  then  add  a  bit 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  pepper  to  taste;  let  simmer  for  a  few  min- 
utes and  serve. 

Mutton  Chops. — Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  skillet,  cover 
closely  and  fry  five  minutes,  turning  over  once ;  dip  each  chop  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  till  tender  or  nicely 
browned  on  each  side;  or  put  in  oven  in  a  dripping  pan  with  a  little 
water,  salt  and  pepper;  baste  frequently  and  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range 
until  brown.  To  broil  lamb  chops,  trim  neatly,  broil  over  a  clear  fire, 
with  a  Majestic  Broiler,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  with 
green  peas. 

Fried  Salt  Pork. — Cut  in  rather  thin  slices,  and  freshen  by  letting 
lie  an  hour  or  two  in  cold  water,  or  milk  and  water,  roll  in  flour  and  fry 
till  crisp  (if  in  a  hurry  pour  boiling  water  on  the  slices,  let  stand  a  few 
minutes,  drain,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  as  before)  ;  drain  off  most  of  the  grease 
from  frying  pan,  stir  in  while  hot  one  or  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  half  a 
pint  new  milk,  a  little  pepper,  and  salt,  if  not  salt  enough  already  from 
the  meat;  let  boil  and  pour  into  gravy  dish.  This  makes  a  nice  white 
gravy  when  properly  made.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  PROPORTIONS—"  MAJESTIC." 

' 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  LAUNDRY   STOVE  No.  1 

Is  no  doubt  the  most  convenient  and  economical  apparatus  that  has 
ever  been  constructed  for  laundry  purposes.  It  has  space  on  sides 
to  hold  eight  sad  irons,  so  arranged  that  they  set  closely  against 
fire  linings.  The -stove  has  open  anchor  plate,  short  center,  and  two 
8-inch  lids,  so  that  any  8-inch  pit  or  flat-bottom  wash  boiler  may 
be  used  on  top.  If  wanted,  we  connect  open  top  Copper  Reservoir 
with  water  heater  inside  of  fire  box,  that  will  heat  40  gallons  of 
water.  Any  kind  of  fuel  can  be  used. 

Price,  $18.50. 

With  Water  Connections,    21.00. 

Prices     include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by 
purchasers— the  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  61 

Fried  Porksteaks. — Fry  like  beefsteaks,  with  pepper  and  salt,  or 
sprinkle  with  dry  powdered  sage  if  the  sausage  flavor  is  liked.  Fry  on  a 
Majestic  Range. 

Roast  Pork. — A  small  loin  of  pork,  three  tablespoons  bread 
crumbs,  one  onion,  half  a  teaspoon  chopped  sage,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  one  oiiHce  chopped  suet,  one  tablespoon  drippings. 
Separate  each  joint  of  the  loin  with  the  chopper,  and  then  make  an  inci- 
sion with  a  knife  into  the  thick  part  of  the  pork  in  which  to  put  the  stuf- 
fing. Prepare  the  stuffing  by  mixing  the  bread  crumbs  together  with  the 
onion,  which  must  have  previously  been  finely  chopped.  Add  to  this  the 
sage,  pepper,  salt  and  suet,  and  when  all  is  thoroughly  mixed  press  the 
mixture  snugly  into  the  incision  already  made  in  the  pork,  and  sew  to- 
gether the  edges  of  the  meat  with  needle  and  thread,  to  confine  the  stuf- 
fing. Grease  well  a  sheet  of  kitchen  paper  with  drippings,  place  the  loin 
into  this,  securing  it  with  a  wrapping  of  twine.  Put  to  bake  in  a  dry 
baking  pan  in  a  brisk  Majestic  Range  oven,  basting  immediately  and  con- 
stantly as  the  grease  draws  out,  and  roast  a  length  of  time,  allowing 
twenty  minutes  to  the  pound  and  twenty  minutes  longer.  Serve  with 
apple  sauce  or  apple  fritters. 

Veal  Loaf. — Chop  fine  three  pounds  of  leg  or  loin  of  veal  and 
three  -fourths  pound  salt  pork,  chopped  finely  together;  roll  one  dozen 
crackers,  put  half  of  them  in  the  veal  with  two  eggs,  season  with  pepper 
and  a  little  salt  if  needed;  mix  all  together  and  make  into  a  solid  form; 
then  take  the  crackers  that  are  left  and  spread  smoothly  over  the  outside ; 
bake  in  a  Majestic  Range  one  hour,  and  eat  cold. 

Veal  or  Chicken  Pot-Pie. — Put  two  or  three  pounds  veal  (a 
piece  with  ribs  is  good)  cut  in  a  dozen  pieces  in  a  quart  of  cold  water; 
make  a  quart  of  soda  biscuit  dough,  take  two-thirds  of  dough,  roll  to  a 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  strips  one  inch  wide  by  three  long;  pare 
and  slice  six  potatoes;  boil  veal  till  tender,  take  out  all  but  three  or  four 
pieces,  put  in  two  handfuls  of  potatoes  and  several  strips  of  dough,  then 
add  pieces  of  veal  and  dough,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
butter,  until  all  the  veal  is  in  the  pot;  add  boiling  water  enough  to  cover, 
take  rest  of  dough,  roll  out  to  size  of  pot,  cut  several  holes  to  let  steam 
escape,  and  place  over  the  whole.  Put  on  a  tight  lid  and  boil  gently  on 
a  Majestic  Range  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  without  uncovering. 

A  Pot  Roast. — Take  a  nice  brisket  of  beef,  weighing  about  four 
pounds,  trim  off  rough  parts;  place  it  in  a  kettle,  over  a  good  fire,  on  a 
.Majestic  Range;  bro\vn  one  side,  then  turn  and  brown  on  the  other;  then 
add  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  cover  and  cook  slowly  one  hour.  Adda 
teaspoonf ul  of  salt  when  the  meat  is  half  done.  After  the  water  evapo- 
rates add  no  more,  as  there  should  be  sufficient  fat  to  finish  cooking  the 
meat.  When  the  meat  is  done  place  it  on  a  heated  dish.  Drain  all  the 
fat  but  two  tablespoonfuls  from  the  pot,  and  puf  it  away  for  frying.  To 
the  two  tablespoonfuls  in  the  pot  add  the  same  quantity  of  flour.  Mix 
well,  and  add  one  pint  of  water;  stir  until  it  boils;  season,  and  pour 
around  the  meat. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  PRINCIPLE—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK 


MAJESTIC    RANGE    No.    55. 

FOB  SOFT  COAL  OB  WOOD. 

IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  55HC. 


and  Hue  lined  with  asbestos* 

-  Prices     include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis      Freight  must  be .paid  by 
purchasers-the  rate  varying  according  to  distance-from  25c  to  $2.00  per 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


Boned  Ham.  —  Having  soaked  a  well-cured  ham  in  tepid  water 
over  night,  boil  it  till  perfectly  tender  on  a  Majestic  Range,  putting  it  on 
in  warm  water;  take  up  in  a  wooden  tray,  let  cool,  remove  bone  carefully, 
press  the  ham  again  into  shape,  return  to  boiling  liquor,  remove  pot  from 
fire  and  let  the  ham  remain  in  it  till  cool.  Cut  across  and  serve  cold. 

Boiled  Ham.  —  Pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  stand  until  cool 
enough  to  wash  ;  scrape  clean  (some  have  a  coarse  hair  brush  on  purpose 
>for  cleaning  hams),  put  in  a  thoroughly  cleansed  boiler  with  cold  water 
enough  to  cover;  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  then  place  on  back  part 
of  range  to  simmer  steadily  for  six  or  seven  hours,  or  till  tender  when 
pierced  with  a  fork  (if  the  ham  weighs  twelve  pounds)  ;  be  careful  to 
keep  water  at  boiling  point,  and  not  to  allow  it  to  go  much  above  it. 
Turn  the  ham  once  or  twice  in  the  water;  when  done  take  up  and  put 
into  a  baking  pan  to  skin;  dip  the  hands  in  cold  water,  take  the  skin  be- 
tween the  lingers  and  peel  as  you  would  an  orange  ;  set  in  a  moderate 
oven,  placing  the  lean  side  of  the  ham  downward,  and  if  you  like  sift 
over  pounded  or  rolled  crackers.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  Majestic  Range. 
The  baking  brings  out  a  great  quantity  of  fat,  leaving  the  meat  much 
more  delicate,  and  in  warm  weather  it  will  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place  a 
long  time  ;  if  there  is  a  tendency  to  mold  set  it  a  little  while  into  the  oven 
again.  Or,  after  the  ham  is  boiled  and  peeled  cover  with  the  white  of  a 
raw  egg,  and  sprinkle  sugar  or  fine  bread  crumbs  over  it;  or  cover  with  a 
regular  cake-icing,  place  in  the  oven  and  brown  ;  or,  quarter  two  onions, 
stick  whole  allspice  and  black  pepper  in  the  quarters,  with  a  knife  make 
slits  in  the  outside  of  the  ham  in  which  put  the  onions,  place  in  dripping 
pan,  lay  parsley  around  and  bake  till  nicely  browned.  Or,  after  boiling 
and  peeling  dust  with  sugar  and  pass  a  hot  knife  over  it  until  it  forms  a 
caramel  glaze,  and  serve  without  baking.  A  still  nicer  way  is  to  glaze 
with  strong  meat  jelly  or  any  savory  jelly  at  hand,  boiled  down  rapidly 
,  (taking  great  care  to  prevent  burning)  until  it  is  like  glue.  Brush  this 
jelly  over  the  ham  when  cool  and  it  makes  an  elegant  dish.  The  nicest 
portion  of  a  boiled  ham  may  be  served  in  slices,  and  the  ragged  parts  and 
odds  and  ends  chopped  fine  for  sandwiches,  or  by  adding  three  eggs  to 
one  pint  of  chopped  ham  a  delicious  omelet  may  be  made.  If  the  ham  is 
very  salt  it  should  lie  in  water  over  night. 

Broiled  Ham.  —  Cut  the  ham  in  slices  of  medium  thickness,  place 

on  a  hot  gridiron  and  broil  on  a  Majestic  Broiler  until  the  fat  readily 

flows  out  and  the  meat  is  slightly  browned;  take  from  the  gridiron  with  a 

knife  and  fork,  drop  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  then  return  to  the  gridiron, 

-  repeat  several  times,  and  the  ham  is  done;  place  in  a  hot  platter,  add  a 

few  lumps  of  butter,  and  serve  at  once.     If  too  fat  trim  off  a  part;  it  is  al- 

'  most  impossible  to  broil  the  fat  part  without  burning,  but  this  does  not 

impair  the  taste.    Pickled  pork  and  breakfast  bacon  may  be  broiled  in 

the  same  way. 

Delicious  Fried  Ham.—  Place  the  slices  in  boiling  water  and 
cook  till  tender;  put  in  frying  pan  and  brown  on  a  Majestic  Range,  and 
dish  on  a  platter;  fry  some  eggs  by  dripping  gravy  over  them  until  done 
instead  of  turning;  take  up  carefully  and  lay  them  on  the  slices  of  ham. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  USE—"  MAJESTIC." 


64  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Fried  Veal  Cutlets. — Make  a  batter  of  half  pint  of  milk,  a  well- 
beaten  egg,  and  flour;  fry  the  veal  brown  in  sweet  lard  or  beef  drippings, 
dip  it  in  the  batter  and  fry  again  till  brown ;  drop  some  spoonfuls  of  bat- 
ter in  the  hot  lard  after  the  veal  is  taken  up,  and  serve  them  on  top  of  the 
meat;  put  a  little  flour  paste  in  the  gravy  with  salt  and  pepper,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil  and  pour  it  over  the  whole.  The  veal  should  be  cut  thin, 
pounded,  and  cooked  nearly  an  hour  in  a  Majestic  Range.  Cracker 
crumbs  and  eggs  may  be  used  instead  of  batter,  but  the  skillet  should 
then  be  kept  covered,  and  the  veal  cooked  slowly  for  half  an  hour  over  a 
moderate  fire.  If  a  gravy  is  wanted  sprinkle  a  little  flour  in  the  pan,  add 
salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  water,  let  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the 
cutlets;  or,  pound  well,  squeeze  juice  of  lemon  over  the  slices,  let  stand 
an  hour  or  two,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs  (if  no 
stale  bread  is  at  hand  dry  slices  in  a  cool  oven),  plunge  at  once  into  hot  fat 
enough  to  cover.  The  slices  will  brown  before  they  are  thoroughly 
cooked,  and  the  pan  should  be  drawn  aside  to  a  cooler  place  to  "finish  " 
more  slowly. 

Fish  may  be  fried  in  the  same  way ;  when  done  the  meat  will  separate 
readily  from  the  bone  when  a  knife  is  inserted.  They  may  be  dipped  in 
milk  and  then  in  flour,  instead  of  in  eggs  and  bread  crumbs;  sift  salt 
evenly  over  the  meat  or  flsh  just  before  serving.  The  bread  crumbs 
should  be  fine ;  if  coarse,  they  crumble  off  with  the  egg  in  cooking. 

Roast  Spare-Rib. — Trim  off  the  rough  ends  neatly,  crack  the  ribs 
across  the  middle,  rub  with  salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper,  fold  over,  stuff 
with  turkey-dressing,  sew  up  tightly,  place  in  dripping  pan  with  pint 
water,  baste  frequently,  turning  over  once  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  equally 
Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range  until  a  rich  brown  . 

Yankee  Pork  and  Beans. — Pick  over  carefully  a  quart  of  bear 
and  let  them  soak  over  night;  in  the  morning  wash  and  dram  in  another 
water,  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda-   boil 
about  thirty  minutes  (when  done  the  skin  of  a  bean  will  crack  if   taker 
out  and  blown  upon),  drain,  and  put  in  an  earthen  pot  first  a  slice  of  port 
and  then  the  beans,  with  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  molasses.    Whei 
the  beans  are  in  the  pot  put  in  the  center  half  or  three-fourths  of  a  pounc 
of  well-washed  salt  pork  with  the  rind  scored  in  slices  or  squares,  and 
uppermost,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  if  needed;   coverall  with  he 
water,  and  bake  six  hours  or  longer  in  a  moderate  oven  in  a  Majestic 
Range,  adding  hot  water  as  needed;   they  can  not  be  baked  too 
Keep  covered  so  that  they  will  not  burn  on  the  top,  but  remove  cover 
hour  or  two  before  serving,  to  brown  the  top  and  crisp  the  pork.     This  , 
the  Yankee  dish  for  Sunday  breakfast.    It  is  often  baked  the  day  before 
allowed  to  remain  in  the  oven  all  night,  and  browned  in  the  mornin< 
Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  cooked,  and  always  have  enough  lei 
to  know  the  luxury  of  cold  beans,  or  baked  beans  warmed  over.     If  sal 
pork  is  too  robust  for  the  appetites  to  be  served,  season  delicately  wit 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  butter,  and  roast  a  fresh  spare-rib  to  serve  wit 
them. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  SPEED—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC    RANGE    No.    56. 

FOB  SOFT  COAL  OB  WOOD. 

IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  56HC. 
,  restaurants, 


double  mantel  shelf  ,  center  flue,  one  water-front. 


Price, 


Prices  include  de.ivery  on  board  cMu 

the  rate  varying  aecording  to  distance-from  25c  to  $Z.uu  | 


66  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


POULTRY. 


Baked  Chickens. — Dress  the  chickens  and  cut  them  in  two,  soak 
for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water,  wipe  perfectly  dry  and  put  in  a  dripping- 
pan,  bone  side  down,  without  any  water;  have  a  hot  oven,  and,  if  the 
i-hirkens  are  young,  half  an  hour's  cooking  in  a  Majestic  Range  will  be 
sufik-ient.  Take  out,  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  pack  one 
above  another  as  closely  as  possible,  and  place  in  a  pan  over  boiling  water, 
covering  them  closely — this  keeps  them  moist  until  served — boil  the  gib- 
lets in  a  little  water,  and,  after  the  chickens  are  taken  from  the  dripping- 
pan,  put  into  it  the  water  in  which  giblets  were  boiled,  thicken  it,  and 
add  the  chopped  giblets.  This  manner  of  baking  chickens  is  fully  equal 
to  broiling  them. 

Baked  Spring  Chickens. — Cut  each  of  four  chickens  into  seven 
or  nine  pieces,  wash  thoroughly  and  quickly,  and  put  in  a  colander  to 
drain,  put  a  half  tablespoon  each  of  lard  and  butter  into  a  dripping-pan, 
lay  in  the  pieces,  and  add  half  a  pint  hot  water;  place  in  Majestic  Range 
oven  and  bake  half  an  hour,  turn,  taking  care  that  they  get  only  to  a  light 
brown,  and,  just  before  taking  up,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  when 
done,  take  out  in  a  dish  and  keep  hot.  To  make  the  gravy,  add  a  half 
pint  or  more  of  water,  set  the  dripping-pan  on  the  range,  and  add  one 
tablespoon  flour  mixed  with  half  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  stirring  slowly, 
adding  a  little  of  the  mixture  at  a  time,  Let  cook  thoroughly,  stirring 
constantly  to  prevent  burning,  and  to  make  the  gravy  nice  and  smooth ; 
season  more  if  necessary. 

Baked  Chicken  with  Parsnips.— Wash,  scrape  and  quarter 
parsnips,  and  parboil  for  twenty  minutes ;  prepare  a  young  chicken  by 
splitting  open  at  back,  place  in  a  dripping-pan,  skin  side  up,  lay  parsnips 
around  the  chicken,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  or  two  or  three  slices  of  good  pickled  pork; 
put  enough  water  in  pan  to  prevent  burning,  place  in  Majestic  Range  oven 
and  bake  until  chickens  and  parsnips  are  done  to  a  delicate  brown;  serve 
chicken  separately  on  a  platter,  pouring  the  gravy  in  the  pan  over  the 
parsnips. 

Chicken  Croquettes. — Boil  two  fowls  weighing  five  pounds  each 
till  very  tender,  mince  fine,  add  one  pint  cream,  half  pound  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  shape  oval  in  a  jelly  glass  or  mold.  Fry  in  lard  like 
doughnuts  until  brown  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Breaded  Chicken. — Cut  a  tender  chicken  into  seven  pieces,  as  if 
for  frying,  roll  in  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then  in  finely  grated  bread 
crumbs,  seasoned  with  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  place  in  dripping- 
pan,  dot  the  pieces  with  bits  of  butter  (one  tablespoon  in  all),  add  a  little 
water,  bake  slowly  in  a  Majestic  Range,  basting  often.  When  done,  take 
out  chicken  and  make  gravy  in  the  pan  by  adding  a  mixture  of  flour  and 
butter,  make  smooth  by  stirring.  Add  either  cream  or  milk  to  make 
sufficient  gravy,  which  season  to  taste. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  COMPLETENESS—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  67 

Broiled  Chickens  or  Quails.— Cut  a  chicken  open  on  the  back, 
lay  on  the  meat-board  and  pound  until  it  will  lie  flat,  place  on  Majestic 
Broiler  and  broil  until  a  nice  brown,  but  do  not  burn.  It  will  take  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes  to  cook  thoroughly,  and  it  will  cook  much  better  to 


tender,  chop  line  and  add  flour,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  stir  a  cup  of 
sweet  cream  to  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled ;  when  the  chicken  is 
done,  dip  in  this  gravy  while  hot.  lay  it  back  on  the  broiler  a  minute,  put 
it  in  the  gravy  and  let  boil  for  hall  a  minute,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 
Cook  quails  in  the  same  way. 

Dressing  for  Chicken  or  Beef  .—Boil  potatoes,  mash  as  if  for 
the  table,  except  that  they  should  be  less  moist,  stuff  the  chicken  or  roast 
with  this,  and  bake  as  ordinarily  in  a  Majestic  Range;  for  ducks,  add  onions 
chopped  fine ;  if  the  bread-dressing  is  wanted  too,  it  may  be  laid  in  the 
corner  of  the  pan. 

Fricasseed  Chicken. — Cut  up  and  put  on  to  boil,  skin  side  down, 
on  a  Majestic  Range  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  slices  of  an  onion  if  liked;  stew  gently  until  tender,  remove 
chicken,  add  a  half  pint  of  cream  or  milk  to  gravy,  and  thicken  with 
butter  and  flour  rubbed  smoothly  together  (adding  a  little  of  the  gravy 
to  soften  and  help  mix  them),  let  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  add  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  and  serve.  Or,  first  fry  the  chicken  brown  in  a  little 
hot  lard  on  a  Majestic  Range,  take  out  chicken,  add  a  tablespoon  flour, 
and  let  cook  a  minute,  stirring  constantly;  add  a  pint  of  water  (or  stock, 
if  at  hand),  a  little  vinegar  or  Worcestershire  sauce,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  when  it  has  boiled,  remove  from  fire,  strain,  add  the  beaten  yolk 
of  an  egg,  pour  over  the  chicken  and  serve.  Or,  put  chicken  in  sauce- 
pan with  barely  enough  water  to  cover,  stew  gently  until  tender;  have  a 
frying-pan  prepared  with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  drain  chicken,  and  fry 
with  pork  on  a  Majestic  Range  until  it  is  a  fine,  rich  brown;  take  chicken 
and  bits  of  pork  from  the  pan,  pour  in  the  broth,  thicken  with  brown  flour, 
mixed  smooth  with  a  little  water,  and  season  with  pepper;  now  put  chicken 
and  pork  back  into  gravy,  let  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  very  hot. 

English  Roast  Turkey. — Kill  several  days  before  cooking,  pre- 
pare in  the  usual  manner,  stuff  with  bread-crumbs  (not  using  the  crusts) 
rubbed  fine,  moistened  with  butter  and  two  eggs,  seasoned  with  salt,  pep- 
per, parsley,  sage,  thyme  or  sweet  marjoram ;  sew  up,  skewer,  and  place 
to  roast  in  a  rack  within  a  dripping-pan  in  a  Majestic  Range;  spread  with 
bits  of  butter,  turn  and  baste  frequently  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
water;  a  few  minutes  before  it  is  done  glaze  with  the  white  of  an  egg; 
dish  the  turkey,  pour  off  most  of  the  fat,  add  the  chopped  giblets  and  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  thicken  with  flour  and  butter  rubbed  to- 

f  ether,  stir  in  the  dripping-pan,  let  boil  thoroughly  and  serve  in  a  gravy- 
oat.  Garnish  with  fried  oysters,  and  serve  with  celery  sauce  and  stewed 
gooseberries.  Choose  a  turkey  weighing  from  eight  to  ten  pounds.  If  it 
ecomes  too  brown,  cover  with  buttered  paper. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  REALITY— '•  MAJESTIC." 


68  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Chickens  for  Lunch. — Split  a  young  chicken  down  the  back, 
wash  and  wipe  dry,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  a  dripping-pan, 
and  place  in  a  moderate  Majestic  Range  oven;  bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  This  is  much  better  for  traveling  lunch  than  when  seasoned  with 
butter. 

Chicken  Pot-pie. — Cut  up  a  chicken  and  place  on  a  Majestic  Range 
in  hot  water  enough  to  cover,  and  take  care  that  it  does  not  cook  dry; 
while  boiling  cut  off  a  slice  from  bread  dough,  add  a  small  lump  of  lard, 
and  mix  up  like  light  biscuit,  roll,  cut  out  with  cake-cutter,  and  set  by 
range  to  rise ;  wash  and  pare  potatoes  of  moderate  size,  and  add  them 
when  chicken  is  almost  done;  when  potatoes  begin  to  boil,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  dumplings  and  season  again.  See  that  there  is 
water  enough  to  keep  from  burning,  cover  very  tightly,  and  do  not  take 
cover  off  until  dumplings  are  done.  They  will  cook  in  half  an  hour, 
and  may  be  tested  by  lifting  one  edge  of  the  lid,  taking  out  a  dumpling, 
and  breaking  it  open.  Or  the  dumplings  may  be  placed  in  steamer  over 
cold  water,  taking  care  to  leave  some  of  the  holes  in  steamer  open — as,  if 
all  are  covered  by  the  dumplings,  the  steam  will  not  be  admitted,  and 
they  will  not  cook  well.  If  there  are  too  many  dumplings  to  lie  on  bot- 
tom without  covering  all  holes,  attach  them  to  the  side  and  upper  edge  of 
steamer  by  wetting  dough  and  pressing  it  to  the  edge.  When  done,  re- 
move to  vegetable  dish  and  pour  hot  gravy  over  them.  Dish  potatoes  by 
themselves,  and  chickens  and  dumplings  together.  Make  gravy  by  mix- 
Ing  two  level  tablespoons  flour  and  a  little  butter  together,  and  stir  into 
the  broth  remaining  in  pot  slowly,  add  more  boiling  water  if  needed,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Or,  make  dumplings  with  one  pint  sour 
milk,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  teaspoon  soda  (mixed  iu  part  of  the 
flour),  and  Hour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon; 
or  baking  powder  and  sweet  milk  may  be  used.  Drop  in  by  spoonfuls, 
cover  tightly,  and  boil  on  a  Majestic  Range,  as  above.  A  pot-pie  may  be 
made  from  a  good  boiling  piece  of  beef ;  if  too  much  grease  arises,  skim  off. 

Chicken  Pie. — Cut  up  two  young  chickens,  place  on  a  Majestic 
Range  in  hot  water  enough  to  cover  (as  it  boils  away  add  more,  so  as  to 
have  enough  for  the  pie  and  for  gravy  to  serve  with  it),  boil  until  tender; 
line  the  sides  of  a  four  of  six  quart  pan  with  a  rich  baking  powder  or  soda 
biscuit  dough  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  put  in  part  of  the  chicken,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  lay  in  a  few  thiu  strips  or  squares  of  dough, 
add  the  rest  of  chicken  and  season  as  before ;  some  add  five  or  six  fresh 
eggs,  or  a  few  new  potatoes  in  their  season;  season  liquor  in  which  the 
chickens  are  boiled  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  part  of  it  to  the 
pie,  cover  with  crust  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  with  a  hole  in  the  center 
the  size  of  a  tea  cup.  Keep  adding  the  chicken  liquor  as  needed,  since 
the  fault  of  most  chicken  pies  is  that  they  are  too  dry.  There  can  scarcely 
be  too  much  gravy.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Veal  pies  are  similarly  made,  omitting  eggs,  and  using  two  or  three 
pounds  veal  to  a  quart  of  dough.  Add  to  the  liquor  left  in  pot  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  mixed  with  flour  to  a  paste,  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
for  gravy,  adding  water  if  needed. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  STANDING—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


69 


MAJESTIC    RANGE    No.  57. 

FOR  SOFT  COAL  OB  WOOD. 


IF  FOR  HARD  COAL  OR  WOOD  57HC. 

Is  designed  to  supply  the  demands  of  people  who  have  large . families,  or  who  enter- 
tain  and  do  cooking  for  large  numbers.  It  has  two  ovens  ^^^^wKur  reei  latfng 
deep,  13  inches  high,  with  large  warming  oven  under  each  One  fi re  with  our  regui aung 
dampers  governing  the  temperature  in  either  oven,  to  suit  the  wants  of  *f*™°fcj££ 
surf  ace  32x53  inches;  six  8-inch  lids,  and  key  plates,  double  mantel  shelf,  diagonal  grates, 
bailed  ash  pan,  and  horse-shoe  water-back.  nice,  si. 

Prices  Include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by  purchasers- 
the  rate  varying  according  to  dlstance-from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


70  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


GAME. 


Quail  on  Toast. — Dry-pick  them,  singe  them  with  paper,  cut  off 
heads,  and  legs  at  first  joint,  draw,  split  down  the  back,  soak  in  salt  and 
water  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  drain  and  dry  with  a  cloth,  lard  them  with 
bacon  or  butter  and  rub  salt  over  them,  place  on  Majestic  Broiler  and 
turn  often,  dipping  two  or  three  times  into  melted  butter;  broil  about 
twenty  minutes.  Have  ready  as  many  slices  of  buttered  toast  as  there  are 
birds,  and  serve  a  bird,  breast  upward,  on  each  slice. 

Broiled  Pheasant  or  Prairie  Chicken. — Scald  and  skin,  cut 
off  the  breast  and  cut  the  rest  up  in  joints,  being  careful  to  remove  all 
shot;  put  in  hot  water  all  except  the  breast  (which  will  be  tender  enough 
without  parboiling),  and  boil  until  it  can  be  pierced  with  fork;  take  out, 
rub  over  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  broil  with  breast  over  brisk  fire  on  a 
Majestic  Broiler;  place  a  lump  of  butter  on  each  piece  and  set  all  in  the 
oven  a  few  minutes.  For  breakfast  serve  on  fried  mush;  for  dinner,  on 
toast  with  a  bit  of  currant  jelly  over  each  piece.  It  may  be  served  with 
toast  cut  in  pieces  about  two  inches  square,  over  which  pour  gravy  made 
by  thickening  the  liquor  in  which  the  birds  were  boiled,  with  a  little  but- 
ter and  flour  rubbed  together  and  stirred  in  while  boiling.  Squirrels  may 
be  prepared  the  same  way. 

Broiled  Quail. — Split  through  the  back  and  broil  over  a  hot  fire 
on  a  Majestic  Broiler,  basting  frequently  with  butter.  When  done  place 
a  bit  of  butter  on  each  piece  and  set  in  a  Majestic  Eange  oven  a  few  mo- 
ments to  brown.  Serve  on  pieces  of  toast  with  currant  jelly.  Plovers  are 
cooked  in  the  same  way.  Pigeons  should  be  first  parboiled  and  then 
broiled. 

Prairie  Chickens. — Cut  out  all  shot,  wash  thoroughly  but  quickly, 
using  some  soda  in  the  water,  rinse  and  dry.  fill  with  dressing,  sew  up 
with  cotton  thread,  and  tie  down  the  legs  and  wings:  place  in  a  steamer 
over  hot  water  till  done,  remove  to  a  dripping  pan,  cover  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  place  in  a  Majestio 
Range  oven  and  baste  with  the  melted  butter  until  a  nice  brown.  Serve 
with  either  apple  sauce,  cranberries  or  currant  jelh*. 

Roast  Duck. — Ducks  are  dressed  and  stuffed  in  the  same  manner 
as  above.  Young  ducks  should  roast  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes; 
full-grown  for  an  hour  or  more  with  frequent  basting.  Some  prefer  them 
underdone,  served  very  hot.  but  thorough  cooking  will  prove  more  gen- 
erally palatable.  Serve  with  currant  jelly,  apple  sauce  and  green  peas. 
If  old.  parboil  before  roasting. 

Place  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast  duck  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  pint  of 
gravy  and  a  little  sage,  cover  closely  and  let  it  simmer  for  half  an  hour  on 
a  Majestic  Range;  add  a  pint  of  boiled  green  peas,  stew  a  few  minutes, 
remove  to  a  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  gravy  and  | 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  APPEARANCE—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  71 

Roast  Quails. — Pluck  and  dress  like  chickens,  wipe  clean,  and  rub 
both  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper;  stuff  with  any  good  dressing 
and  se\v  up  with  tine  thread:  spread  with  butter  and  place  in  a  Majestic 
Range  oven  with  a  good  steady  heat,  turning  and  basting  often  with  hot 
w.ajter  seasoned  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  AVhen  about  half  done  add  a  little  hot  water  to  the  pan,  and  it  is 
well  to  place  a  dripping  pan  over  them  to  prevent  browning  too  much. 
Add  to  the  gravy  Hour  and  butter  rubbed  together,  and  water  if  needed. 

Roast  Goose. — The  goose  should  not  be  more  than  eight  months 
old,  and  the  fatter  the  more  tender  and  juicy  the  meat.  A  ''green" 
(four  mouths  old)  is  the  choicest.  Kill  at  least  twenty-four  hours 
before  cooking:  cut  the  neck  close  to  the  back,  beat  the  breast-bone  flat 
with  a  rolling  pin.  tie  the  wings  and  legs  securely,  and  stuff  with  the  fol- 
lowing mixture :  Three  pints  bread  crumbs,  six  ounces  butter,  or  part 
butter  and  part  salt  pork,  two  chopped  onions,  one  teaspoon  each  of  sage, 
black  pepper  and  salt.  Do  not  stuff  very  full,  and  stitch  openings  firmly 
together  to  keep  flavor  in  and  fat  out.  If  the  goose  is  not  fat,  lard  it  with 
salt  pork,  or  tie  a  slice  on  the  breast.  Place  in  a  baking  pan  with- a  little 
water,  and  baste  frequently  with  salt  and  water  (some  add  onion  and 
some  vinegar),  turning  often  so  that  the  sides  and  back  may  all  be  nicely 
browned.  "  When  nearly  done  baste  with  butter  and  a  little  flour.  Bake 
in  a  Majestic  Range  two  hours  or  more  if  old.  When  done  take  from  the 
pan.  pour  off  the  fat.  and  to  the  brown  gravy  left  add  the  chopped  giblets 
which  have  previously  been  stowed  till  tender,  together  with  the  water 
they  we'-e  boiled  in;  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  butter  rubbed  to- 
gether, bring  to  a  boil,  and  serve  with  currant  jelly.  Apple  sauce  and 
onion  sauce  are  proper  accompaniments  to  roast  goose. 

Reed  Birds. — Roasting  by  suspending  on  the  little  wire  which  ac- 
companies the  roaster  is  the  best  method ;  turn  and  baste  frequently,  or 
wash  and  peel  with  as  thin  a  paring  as  possible  large  potatoes  of  equal 
size,  cut  a  deep  slice  off  one  end  of  each  and  scoop  out  a  part  of  the^po- 
tato;  drop  a  piece  of  butter  into  each  bird,  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  it  in 
the  hollows  made  in  the  potatoes;  put  on  as  covers  the  pieces  cut  off.  and 
clip  the  other  end  for  them  to  stand  on.  Set  in  a  baking  pan  upright 
with  a  little  water  to  prevent  burning,  bake  slowly  in  a  Majestic  Range. 
and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  baked.  Or,  boil  in  a  crust  like 
dumplings. 

Rabbits. — Rabbits,  which  are  in  the  best  condition  in  mid-winter, 

be  fricasseed  like  chicken  in  white  or  brown  sauce.    To  make  a  pie, 

first  stew  till  tender  and  make  like  chicken  pie.     To  roast,  stuff  with  a 

dressing  made  of  bread   crumbs,  chopped  salt  pork,  thyme,  onion,  and 

per  and  salt;  sew  up,  rub  over  with  a  little  butter,  or  pin  on  it  a  few 

-alt  pork,  add  a  little  water  in  the  pan,  and  baste  often.     Serve 

with  mashed  potatoes  and  currant  jelly.     Bake  ia  a  Majestic  Range. 

Snipe-— Snipe  are  best  roasted  with  a  piece  of  pork  tied  to  the  breast, 
or  they  may  be  stuffed  and  baked  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN   EVERY  LAND— "  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE   No.   58. 

FOIl  SOFT  COAL  OR  WOOD. 


Has  two  ovens,  each  17  inches  wide,  23  inches  deep,  13  inches  high  w  th  center  flues 
one  fire:  center  plate  with  reducing  ring,  balance  solid  or  open^  wit  ^  **  de^ef 
Top  cooking  surface  34x63  inches,  double  mantel  shelf,  lower  warming  ovens,  baUe 
nsh  pan,  heavy  diagonal  grates  and  fire  linings  pin  extension  waterback .End  flu- 
lined  with  pure  asbestos  boajd.  For  parts  in  steel,  malleable  and  gray  iron  see  page  11. 

Price 

Prices  Include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.    Freight  must  be  paid  by  purchasers- 
trie  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  26c  to  $2.00  per  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  73 


FISH. 


Baked  Fish. — Clean,  rinse,  and  wipe  dry  a  white  fish,  or  any  fish 
weighing  three  or  four  pounds,  rub  the  fish  inside  and  out  with  salt  and 
">epper.  fiU  with  a  stuffing  made  like  that  for  poultry  but  drier;  sew  it  up 
and  put  in%  hot  pan  with  some  drippings  and  a  lump  of  butter,  dredge 
with  Hour,  and  lay  over  the  fish  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  or  bits  of 
butter;  bake  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  Majestic  Range,  basting  occasionally. 

Baked  Shad. — Open  and  clean  the  fish,  cut  off  head  (or  not  as  pre- 
ferred) cut  out  the  backbone  from  the  head  to  within  two  inches  of  the 
tail  and  fill  with  the  following  mixture :  Soak  stale  bread  in  water, 
squeeze  dry;  cut  a  large  onion  in  pieces,  fry  in  butter,  chop  fine,  add  the 
bread,  two  ounces  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  parsley  or  sage; 
heat  thoroughly,  and  when  taken  from  the  fire  add  two  yolks  of  well- 
beaten  eggs;  stuff,  and,  when  full,  wind  the  fish  several  times  with  tape, 
place  in  baking  pan  in  a  Majestic  Range,  baste  slightly  with  butter,  and 
cover  the  bottom  of  pan  with  water.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce : 

Sauce. — Reduce  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  past 
add  two  tablespoons  olive  oil,  half  teaspoon  mustard,  and  pepper  an 
vinegar  to  taste. 

Baked  Salmon,  Trout  or  Pickerel.— Clean  thoroughly,  wipe 
carefully,  and  lay  in  a  dripping  pan  with  hot  water  enough  to  prevent 
scorching  (a  perforated  tin  sheet  or  rack  fitting  loosely  in  the  pan,  or 
several  muffin  rings  may  be  used  to  keep  the  fish  from  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  and  the  fish  may  be  made  to  form  a  circle  by  tying  head  and  tail  to- 
gether) ;  bake  slowly  in  a  Majestic  Range,  basting  often  with  butter  and 
w;iu-r.  When  done  have  ready  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  into  which  a  few 
spoons  of  hot  water  have  been  poured,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  heat  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water; 
add  the  gravy  from  the  dish  and  boil  up  once.  Place  the  fish  in  a  hot 
dish  and  pour  over  the  sauce. 

Codfish  a  la  Mode.— Teacup  codfish  picked  up  fine,  two  cups 
mashed  potatoes,  one  pint  cream  or  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  half  tea- 
cup butter,  salt  and  pepper;  mix  well,  bake  in  baking  dish  from  twenty 
to  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Boiled  Fish.— To  boil  a  fish  fill  with  a  rich  dressing  of  rolled 
crackers  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  sage,  wrap  it  in  a  well- 
floured  cloth,  tie  closely  with  twine  or  sew,  and  place  in  well-salted  boil- 
ing water.  Place  where  it  will  simmer  from  eight  to  ten  minutes  to  the 
pound,  on  a  Majestic  Range,  according  to  size  and  thickness  of  fish. 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel.— After  freshening  wrap  in  a  cloth  and 
simmer  for  fifteen  minutes  on  a  Majestic  Range;  it  will  be  almost  done  as 
soon  as  the  water  reaches  the  boiling  point;  remove,  lay  on  it  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs  sliced,  pour  over  it  drawn  butter  and  trim  with  parsley 
leaves.  Boiling  salt  fish  hardens  it. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  COOKING— "  MAJESTIC." 


74  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Boiled  White  Fish.— Dress  the  fish  nicely  and  cover  in  fish  kettle 
with  boilino-  water  seasoned  well  with  salt;  remove  the  scum  as  it 
and  simmer,  allowing  from  eight  to  ten  minutes  time  to  every  pound ; 
when  about  half  done  add  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  take  out,  drain, 
and  dish  carefully,  pouring  over  it  drawn  butter;  or  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley,  and  .serve  with  egg  sauce.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Broiled  White  Fish.— Clean,  split  down  the  back,  and  let  stand 
insulted  water  for  several  hours:  wipe  dry  and  place  on  agyrell-g] 

fridiron  over  hot  coals,  sprinkling  with  salt  and  pepper.  Tut  flesh  side 
own  at  first,  and   when  nicely   browned  turn  carefully  on   the  other. 
Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  or  until  nicely 
browned  on  both  sides. 

Brook  Trout.— Wash  and  drain  in  a  colander  a  few  minute 
nearly  to  the  tail,  flour  nicely  and  put  in  pan,  which  should  be  hot  but 
not  burning;  throw  in  a  little  .salt  to  prevent  sticking,  and  do  not  turn 
until  brown  enough  for  the  table.    Trout  are  nice  fried  with  slices  of  salt 
pork.    Cook  on  a  majestic  Range. 

Codfish  Balls.— Soak  codfish  cut  in  pieces  about  an  hour  in  luke- 
warm water,  remove  skin  and  bones,  pick  to  small  pieces  and  return  to 
range  in  cold  water.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  change  the  water  and 
brino-  to  a  boil  again.  Have  ready  potatoes  boiled  tender,  well  mashed 
and  seasoned  with  butter.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the  potatoes  half  the 
quantity  of  codfish  while  both  are  still  hot,  form  into  flat,  thick  cakes  or 
round  balls,  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  on  a  Majestic  Range,  or  dip  in 
hot  fat  like  doughnuts.  The  addition  of  a  beaten  egg  before  making  into 
balls  renders  them  lighter.  Cold  potatoes  may  be  used  by  reheating, 
adding  a  little  cream  and  butter  and  mixing  while  hot. 

Fried  Fish. — Clean  thoroughly,  cut  off  the  head,  and.  if  large,  cut 
out  the  backbone,  and  slice  the  body" crosswise  into  five  or  six  pieces:  dip 
in  Indian  meal  or  wheat  flour,  or  in  a  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  Dread 
crumbs  (trout  and  perch  should  never  be  dipped  in  meal),  put  into  a 
thick-bottomed  skillet,  skin  side  uppermost,  with  hot  lard  or  drii 
fry  slowly  on  a  Majestic  Range  and  turn  when  a  light  brown.  The  roe  and 
the  backbone  if  previously  removed  may  be  cut  up  and  fried  with  i br- 
other pieces.  A  better  way  is  to  dredge  the  pieces  in  the  llonr. 
with  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings 
enough  to  completely  cover  them.  If  the  fat  is  very  hot  the  fish  will  not 
absorb  it  and  will  be  delicately  cooked.  When  brown  on  one  side  turn 
over  in  the  fat  and  brown  the  other,  and  when  done  let  them  drain. 
,Sli.-cs  of  large  fish  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce  or  slices  of  lemon. 

Pan-Fish.— Place  in  pan  with  heads  together  and  fill  spaces  with 
smaller  fish ;  when  ready  to  turn  put  a  plate  over,  drain  off  fat,  invert 
pan.  and  the  fish  will  be  left  unbroken  on  the  plate.  Put  the  lard  back  in 
the  pan.  and  when  hot  slip  back  the  fish,  and  when  the  other  side  ii 
brown  drain,  turn  on  plate  as  before,  and  slide  them  on  the  platter  to  go 
to  the  table.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  DESIGN—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  75 


EGGS. 


To  Make  Omelet.— Beat  the  yolks  lightly ;  then  add  the  milk, 
the  salt,  pepper,  and  flour  if  any  is  used,  and  lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Have  the  skillet  as  hot  as  it  can  be  without  scorching  the 
butter;  put  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  pour  in  the  omelet,  which  .should 
at  once  begin  to  bubble  and  rise  in  flakes.  Slip  under  it  a  thin,  broad- 
bladed  knife,  and  every  now  and  then  raise  it  up  to  prevent  burning.  As 
soon  as  the  under  side  is  hard  enough  to  hold  together,  and  the  eggs  be- 
gin to  ••  set."  fold  over,  shake  the  skillet  so  as  to  entirely  free  the  omelet, 
ran -fully  slide  it  on  a  hot  platter  and  serve  at  once.  It  should  be  cooked 
in  from  three  to  five  minutes.  To  bake  an  omelet  place  in  the  frying-pan 
on  top  of  range  until  it  begins  to  "set"  in  the  middle,  then  place  in  a 
rather  hot  Majestic  Range  oven;  when  slightly  browned,  fold  if  you  like, 
or  turn  a  hot  dish  on  top  of  the  pan,  upset  the  latter  with  a  quick  motion, 
and  so  dish  the  omelet  with  the  under  side  uppermost.  It  should  be 
baked  in  from  five  to  ten  minutes.  Where  a  large  quantity  of  eggs  art- 
used,  instead  of  making  into  one  large  omelet,  divide  and  make  several, 
sending  each  to  the  table  as  soon  as  done.  Three  eggs  make  a  good-sized 
oineletT  Ham.  chicken  and  all  kinds  of  meat  omelets  are  made  by  chop- 
ping the  meat  fine  and  placing  between  the  folds  before  dishing.  In 
making  vegetable  (asparagus,  tomatoes,  cauliflower,  etc.)  omelets  cook 
the  vegetables  as  if  for  the  table;  place  them  in  the  center  of  the  omelet 
just  before  folding. 

For  a  plain,  easily-made  omelet  take  three  tablespoons  milk  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  for  each  egg;  beat  the  eggs  lightly  for  three  or  four  minutes, 
pour  them  into  a  hot  pan  in  which  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
has  just  been  melted,  cook  three  or  four  minutes,  fold  over  and  serve  at 
once.  Some  scald  a  little  parsley,  pour  off  the  water,  chop  it.  and  mix 
with  the  omelet  just  before  pouring  into  the  pan.  Old  cheese  grated  and 
added  to  a  plain  omelet  is  a  favorite  dish.  To  make  a  bread  omelet  re- 
move all  crust  from  a  large  slice  of  light,  white  bread,  moisten  with  sweet 
milk,  rub  through  a  sieve,  add  to  the  yolks,  beat  very  thoroughly,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  adding  beaten  whites  last. 

Washington  Omelet. — Let  one  teacup  milk  come  to  a  boil,  pom- 
it  over  one  teacup  bread  crumbs  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Break  six 
into  a  bowl;  stir  (not  beat)  till  well  mixed;  then  add  the  milk  and 
bread:  mix;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  into  a  hot  skillet,  in 
\vhicha  large  tablespoon  of  butter  had  been  melted;  fry  slowly,  cut-in 
squares,  turn,  fry  a  delicate  brown  on  a  Majestic  Range:  serve  at  once. 

Curried  Eggs. — Slice  two  onions  and  fry  in  butter,  add  a  table- 
spoon curry  powder  and  one  pint  good  broth  or  stock:  stew  till  onions 
are  quite  tender,  add  a  cup  of  cream  thickened  with  arrowroot  or  rice 
flour,  simmer  a  few  moments  on  a  Majestic  Range,  then  add  eight  or  ten 
hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices  and  beat  them  well,  but  do  not  boil. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  CONCEPTION—-  MAJESTIC." 


76 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


Prices  include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.      Freight  must  be  paid  by  purchasers— the  rate 
.varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


78  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Boiled  Eggs.— Put  them  on  in  cold  water,  and  when  it  has  hoiled 
on  a  Majestic  Range  the  eggs  will  he  done,  the  whiles  being  soft  and  di- 
gestible, as  they  are  not  when  put  on  in  hoiling  water. 

Escaloped  Eggs. — Moislen  bread  crumbs  with  milk  or  meat  broth, 
place  a  layer  of  this  in  a  well-buttered  dish,  slice  some  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  dip  each  slice  in  a  thick  drawn  butter  sauce  to  which  a  well-beaten 
egg  has  been  added;  put  a  layer  of  them  upon  the  crumbs,  then  a  slight 
layer  of  minced  ham.  veal  or  chicken,  then  bread,  etc..  finishing  with  dry, 
sifted  bread  crumbs;  bake  until  well  heated  in  a  Majestic  Range.  Or, 
mix  equal  parts  minced  ham  and  fine  bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  melted  butter,  adding  milk  to  moisten  till  quite  soft;  half  fill 
buttered  gem  pans  or  small  patty  pans  with  this  mixture,  and  break  an 
egg  carefully  upon  the  top  of  each,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle 
finely  powdered  crackers  over  all,  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  eight  minutes. 
Serve  immediately. 

Frizzled  Ham  and  Eggs. — Take  bits  of  either  boiled  or  fried 
ham.  chop  fine  and  place  in  a  skillet  prepared  with  butter  or  beef  drip- 
pings: take  four  to  six  well-beaten  eggs,  pour  over  ham,  and  when  heated 
through  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt;  stir  together,  cook  until  done 
brown  on  a  Majestic  Range,  and  turn  over  without  stirring. 

Poached  Eggs. — Break  and  drop  them  one  at  a  time  in  salted 
water,  to  which  some  add  a  small  lump  of  butter;  some  say  drop  in  when 
simmering,  others  when  boiling,  not  letting  it  bofl  again  after  putting  in 
the  eggs;  others  have  water  boiling,  salt,  then  place  it  where  it  will  stop 
boiling,  drop  in  eggs  and  let  simmer  gently  till  done  on  a  Majestic  Rang 
Always  take  great  care  in  keeping  the  yolk  whole.  To  preserve  the  eg, 
round,  muffin  rings  may  be  placed  in  the  water,  or  stir  with  a  spoon  an 
drop  in  the  eddy  thus  made,  stirring  till  egg  is  cooked.  To  serve  them 
toast  squares  of  bread  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  put  a  very  little 
melted  butter  upon  each  slice,  place  on  a  heated  platter,  lay  an  egg  on 
each  square,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  '  Some  put  a  bit  of  butler 
on  each  egg.  Serve  with  Worcester  sauce  if  desired.  Some  poach  eggs 
in  milk,  serving  them  in  sauce  dishes  with  some  of  the  milk,  and  season- 
ing with  pepper  and  salt. 

Scrambled  Eggs. — In  a  deep  earthen  pie  plate,  warm  sweet  milk, 
allowing  two  tablespoons  to  each  egg  (or  less,  with  a  large  number 
eggs),  add  a  bit  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  little  salt  and  peppe 
When  nearly  to  boiling  point  drop  in  the  eggs,  broken  one  at  a  time  in 
saucer:  with  a  spoon  or  thin-bladed  knife  gently  cut  the  eggs,  and  scrape 
the  mixture  up  from  the  bottom  of  the  plate  as  it  cooks,     if  it  begins  t 
cook  dry  and  fast  at  the  bottom  move  the  dish  back  instantly,  for  succe 
depends  wholly  on  cooking  gently  and  evenly,  proportions  being  of  se 
ondary  importance.     Take  from  range  before  it  has  quite  all  tbiekene 
and  continue  turning  it  up  from  the  bottom  of  the  dish  a  moment  longe 
If  served  in  another  dish  (it  keeps  warmer  served  in  same)  have  it  wel 
heated.    The  mixture  should  be  in  large  flakes  of  mingled  white  and  yel- 
low, and   as  delicate  as  baked  custard.     Some  prefer  them   scrambled 
without  the  milk.    Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  FORM— •' MAJESTIC." 


K. 

5 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  70 


VEGETABLES. 


Dry  Lima  Beans. — Wash  one  quart  of  dry  lima  beans  in  two 
warm  waters,  soak  three  hours,  drain,  and  put  on  Majestic  Range  to  cook 
in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them:  cover  pot  with  tin  lid,  adding 
more  hot  water  as  it  boils  away,  boiling  rapidly  for  one  and  a  half  hours, 
when  there  should  be  only  water  enough  to  come  up  to  top  of  the  beans — 
ju>t  sufficient  to  make  a  nice  dressing.  Five  minutes  before  taking  up. 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  in  a  dressing  made  of  one  tablespoon 
each  of  flour  and  butter,  rubbed  together  until  smooth.  This  is  a  delicious 
dish. 

String  Beans. — String,  snap  and  wash  two  quarts  beans,  boil  on 
Majestic  Range,  in  plenty  of  water  about  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off  and 
put  on  again  in  about  two  quarts  boiling  water;  boil  an  hour  and  a  half, 
and  add  salt  and  pepper  just  before  taking  up.  stirring  in  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  butter  rubbed  into  two  tablespoons  flour  and  half  pint  sweet 
cream. 

•  Or,  boil  a  piece  of  salted  pork  on  Majestic  Range  one  hour,  then  add 
beans  and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half.  For  shelled  beans  boil  half  an  hour  in 
water  enough  to  cover,  and  dress  as  above. 

Stewed  Carrots. — Take  any  quantity  desired,  divide  the  carrots 
lengthwise,  and  boil  on  Majestic  Range  until  perfectly  tender,  which  will 
require  from  one  to  two  hours.  "When  done,  have  ready  a  sauce-pan  with 
one  or  two  tablespoons  butter,  and  small  cup  cream;  slice  the  carrots 
very  thin,  and  put  in  the  sauce-pan;  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  stew  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  gently  once  or  twice,  and  serve  in  a  vegetable 
dish.  Some  add  more  milk  or  cream;  when  done  skim  out  carrots,  and  to 
the  cream  add  a  little  flour  thickening,  or  the  beaten  yolks  of  one  or  two 
eggs.  When  it  boils  pour  over  the  carrots  and  serve.  Carrots  may  also 
be  boiled  with  meat  like  turnips  or  parsnips,  but  they  take  longer  to  cook 
than  either. 

Stewed  Corn. — Cut  with  a  sharp  knife  through  the  center  of  every 
row  of  grains,  and  cut  off  the  outer  edge;  then  with  the  back  of  the 
blade  push  out  the  yellow  eye.  with  the  rich,  creamy  center  of  the  grain, 
leaving  the  hull  on  the  cob.  To  one  quart  of  this  add  half  a  pint  rich 
milk,  and  stew  until  cooked  in  a  covered  tin  pail,  in  a  kettle  one-third 
full  of  boiling  water;  then  add  salt,  white  pepper,  and  two  or  three 
ounces  butter;  allow  two  hours  for  cooking  on  a  Majestic  Range;  it  seems 
a  long  time,  but  there  is  no  danger  of  burning,  and  it  requires  no  more 
attention  than  to  stir  it  occasionally  and  to  keep  good  the  supply  of 
water.  If  drier  than  liked,  add  more  milk  or  cream.  Or,  after  cutting 
corn  from  the  cob,  boil  the  cobs  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  take  out  and 
put  com  in  same  water;  when  tender,  add  a  dressing  of  milk,  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  just  before  serving  stir  in  beaten  eggs,  allowing 
three  eggs  to  a  dozen  ears  of  corn. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  VALUE—-'  MAJESTIC." 


SO  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Heidelberg  Cabbage. — Select  two  small,  solid  heads  of  hard  red 
cabbage;  divide  them  in  halves  from  crown  to  stem ;  lay  the  split  side 
down,  and  cut  downwards  in  thin  slices.  The  cabbage  will  then  be  in 
narrow  strips  or  shreds.  Put  into  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  of  clean  drip- 
pings, butter,  or  any  nice  fat;  when  fat  is  hot,  put  in  cabbage  a  teaspoon 
of  salt,  three  tablespoons  vinegar  (if  the  latter  is  very  strong  use  but  two), 
and  one  onion,  in  which  three  or  four  cloves  have  been  stuck,  buried  in 
the  middle;  boil  two  hours  and  a  half  on  a  Majestic  Range;  if  it  becomes 
too  dry  and  is  in  danger  of  scorching  add  a  very  little  water.  This  is 
very  nice. 

Fried  Cabbage. — Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine,  on  a  slaw  cutter,  if 
possible;  salt  and  pepper,  stir  well,  and  let  stand  live  minutes.  Have  an 
iron  kettle  smoking  hot,  drop  one  tablespoon  lard  into  it,  then  the  cab- 
bage, stirring  briskly  until  quite  tender;  send  to  table  immediately. 
One-half  cup  sweet  cream  and  three  tablespoons  vinegar — the  vinegar 
added  after  the  cream  has  been  well  stirred,  and  after  taking  from  the 
Majestic  Range,  is  an  agreeable  change.  When  properly  done  an  invalid 
can  eat  it  without  injury,  and  there  is  no  offensive  odor  from  cooking. 

Dandelions. — They  are  fit  for  use  until  they  blossom.  Cut  off  the 
leaves,  pick  over  carefully,  wash  in  several  waters,  put  into  boiling 
water,  boil  one  hour,  drain  well,  add  salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  two  hours 
on  a  Majestic  Range;  when  done,  turn  into  a  colander  and  drain,  season 
with  butter,  and  more  salt  if  needed,  and  cut  with  a  knife;  or  boil  with  a 
piece  of  salt  pork,  omitting  the  butter  in  the  dressing. 

Boiled  or  Fried  Onions. — Wash  and  peel,  boil  ten  minutes,  pour 
off  this  water,  again  add  boiling  water,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  drain  a 
second  time;  pour  on  boiling  water,  add  salt  and  boil  for  one  hour  on  a 
Majestic  Range;  place  in  a  colander,  turn  a  saucer  over  them  and  press 
firmly  to  drive  off  all  the  water;  place  in  a  dish  and  add  butter  and  pep- 
per. Or,  about  half  an  hour  before  they  are  done,  turn  a  pint  of  milk 
into  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiling,  and,  when  tender,  season  as 
above.  Old  onions  require  two  hours  to  boil.  To  fry  onions,  slice  and 
boil  ten  minutes  each  time  in  three  waters,  drain,  fry  in  butter  or  beef 
drippings,  stir  often,  season,  and  serve  hot. 


Potatoes  Boiled  or  Baked  in  Jackets. — Wash  clean  (a  brus 
is  the  best  implement  for  cleaning  potatoes),  cut  off  the  ends,  let  stand  in 
cold  water  a  few  hours,  put  into  boiling  water,  the  larger  ones  first,  and 
•'•in  in  a  short  time  adding  the  rest,  cover,  and  keep  boiling  constantly; 
er  fifteen  minutes  throw  in  another  handful  of  salt  and  boil  another 
fifteen  minutes  on  a  Majestic  Range ;  try  with  a  fork,  and  if  it  does  not 
quite  run  through  the  potato,  they  are  done.  (This  is  called  "  leaving  a 
bone  in  them.1')  Drain,  take  to  door  or  window  and  shake  in  open  air  to  . 
make  them  mealy;  return  to  range  and  allow  to  stand  uncovered  for; 
moment.  Or,  when  washed,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifty  minutes; 
place  in  a  steamer  half  an  hour  over  water  kept  constantly  boiling;  serve 
immediately;  or,  wash  and  peel  medium-sized  ones  and  bake  in  pan  with 
roast  meat,  basting  often  with  the  drippings. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  COMPLETION—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  81 

Boiled  Corn. — Put  the  well-cleaned  ears  in  salted  boiling  water. 
boil  an  hour  on  a  Majestic  Range,  or  boil  in  the  husk  for  the  same  time, 
remove  husks  and  serve  immediately.  Corn  thoroughly  cooked  is  a 
wholesome  dish. 

Hominy. — Soak  one  quart  of  ground  hominy  over  night,  put  over 
the  fire  in  a  tin  pail,  set  in  boiling  water  with  water  enough  to  cover,  boil 
gently  for  five  hours  on  a  Majestic  Range,  as  it  can  not  be  hurried.  After 
the  grains  begin  to  soften  on  no  account  stir  it.  The  water  put  in  at  first 
ought  to  be  enough  to  finish  it,  but  if  it  proves  too  little,  add  more  care- 
fully, as  too  much  makes  it  sloppy.  Salt  just  before  taking  from  the 
range,  as  too  early  salting  makes  it  dark.  Jf  properly  done,  the  grains 
will  stand  out  snowy  and  well  done,  but  round  and  separate. 

Boiled  Cauliflower. — To  each  half  gallon  water  allow  heaped  ta- 
blespoon salt;  choose  close  and  white  cauliflower,  trim  off  decayed  out- 
side leaves,  and  cut  stock  off  flat  at  bottom ;  open  flower  a  little  in  places 
to  remove  insects  which  generally  are  found  about  the  stalk,  and  let 
cauliflowers  lie  with  heads  downward  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours  pre- 
vious to  dressing  them,  which  will  effectually  draw  out  all  vermin.  Then 
put  into  boiling  water,  adding  salt  in  above  proportion,  and  boil  briskly 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  over  a  good  fire  on  a  Majestic  Range,  keep- 
ing the  saucepan  uncovered.  The  water  should  be  well  skimmed.  When 
cauliflowers  are  tender,  take  up.  drain,  and  if  large  enough  place  upright 
in  dish ;  serve  with  plain  melted  butter,  a  little  of  which  may  be  poured 
over  the  flowers,  or  a  white  sauce  may  be  used  made  as  follows : 

Put  butter  size  of  an  egg  into  the  saucepan,  and  when  it  bubbles  stir 
in  a  scant  half  teacup  of  flour;  stir  well  with  an  egg  whisk  until  cooked; 
then  add  two  teacups  of  thin  cream,  some  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  it  over 
the  fire  until  perfectly  smooth.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  cauliflower  and 
serve.  Many  let  the  cauliflower  simmer  in  the  sauce  a  few  moments  before 
serving.  Cauliflower  is  delicious  served  as  a  garnish  around  spring  chicken, 
or  with  fried  sweetbreads,  when  the  white  sauce  should  be  poured  over 
both.  In  this  case  it  should  be  made  by  adding  the  cream,  flour,  and 
seasoning  to  the  little  grease  (half  a  teaspoon)  that  is  left  after  frying  the 
chickens  or  sweetbreads. 

Delicate  Cabbage. — Remove  all  defective  leaves,  quarter  and  cut 
as  for  coarse  slaw,  cover  well  with  cold  water,  and  let  remain  several 
hours  before  cooking,  then  drain  and  put  into  pot  with  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover;  boil  on  a  Majestic  Range  until  thoroughly  cooked  (which 
will  generally  require  about  forty-five  minutes),  add  salt  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes  before  removing  from  fire,  and  when  done,  take  up  in  a  colander, 
press  out  the  water  well,  and  season  with  butter  and  pepper.  This  is  a 
good  dish  to  serve  with  corned  meats,  but  should  not  be  cooked  with 
them ;  if  preferred,  however,  it  may  be  seasoned  by  adding  some  of  the 
liquor  and  fat  from  the  boiling  meat  to  the  cabbage  while  cooking.  Or. 
cut  the  cabbage  in  two,  remove  the  hard  stock,  let  stand  in  cold  water 
two  hours,  tie  in  thin  netting  or  piece  of  muslin,  and  boil  in  salted  water 
for  a  longer  time  than  when  it  is  cut  finely.  Drain,  remove,  and  serve  in 
a  dish  with  drawn  butter,  or  a  cream  dressing  poured  over  it. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—II*  CREATION—"  MAJESTIC." 


82  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


GAS  RANGES. 

On  the  three  following  pages  will  be  found  cuts  of  our  new  line  of 
Majestic  Gas  Ranges,  with  description.  In  the  construction,  bringing  out. 
and  introduction  of  these  ranges  we  followed  the  dictates  of  a  compre- 
hensive understanding  as  to  the  wants  of  the  people,  and  submit  our  work 
to  their  judgment. 

It  is  not  our  policy  to  claim  merit  by  decrying  the  make  of  others, 
hence  we  speak  only  of  the-Majestic.  It  may  be  difficult,  but  people  will 
learn  that  a  Gas  Range  should  not  be  a  temporary  affair,  used  to-day, 
thrown  away  to-morrow.  Judgment  and  sound  sense  ought  to  teach 
them  that  iron  or  steel  subject  to  intense  heat  should  be  heavy,  strong 
and  well  made. 

The  steady  growth  in  the  use  of  gas  as  a  fuel  for  cooking  induced  u 
to  undertake  the  manufacture  of  a  Gas  Range  that  would  be  permanent,  in 
fact  everlasting;  and  to  this  end  we  make  them  only  of  the  best  material 
obtainable. 

The  bodies,  ovens,  and  centre  flues  are  made  of  the  best  cold-rolled 
steel;  oven  doors,  frames,  hinges,  stakes,  and  gravity  handles,  of  malle- 
able iron ;  other  pavt.<  best  gray  iron.  All  parts  in  steel  and  malleabl 
are  riveted  firmly  and  solidly  together. 

Our  new  Mantel  and  Closet  Shelves  are  conveniences  much  appreci 
"ated  by  users.  Our  burners  are  new  and  made  with  a  view  to  the  smalles 
consumption  of  gas. 

Our  water  heater  is  the  largest  ever  made,  it  having  432  square  inche 
of  direct  fire  surf  ace;  it  can  be  connected  with  either  range.     Our  con 
necting  gas  pipes  and  pin  valves  are  so  made  as  to  preclude  the  possibili 
of  escaping  gas,  and  are  so  simple  that  a  child  may  connect  and  operate 
them. 

Door  panels  and  all  fittings  are  nickel  plated  and  highly  polished. 
Shelf  bands  and  brackets  polished.  Looked  at  from  all  the  different 
standpoints,  it  is  the  greatest  and  best  Gas  Range  in  the  world. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  THINGS  PRESENT— "MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


CO  "55  I    2 

o  ^S.a-S'S 

^ 


according   to  distance  -  Irom  25c  to  $2.00  per 


84 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  GAS   RANGE  "C" 

Has  roasting  and  baking  ovens,  each  16  inches  wide,  18  inches  deep, 
inches  high;  top  cooking  surface  24x28  inches,  and  mantel  shelf, 
three  single  burners,  one  double.  The  ovens  are  surrounded  by  double 
steel  flues,  and  are  heated  by  inverted  twin  burners  producing' a  flame 
incandesent.  thus  enconomizing  gas  and  utilizing  to  the  fullest  extent  the 
products  of  the  most  perfect  combustion  ever  produced  in  a  gas  range. 
Oven  burners  are  lighted  from  the  outside  by  needle  lighter.  For  material 
and  general  constructive  feature  see  page  11. 

Price,  $37.00. 

Prices  include  delivery  on  board  cars  In  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid   by  purchasers- 
Ike  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  S2.00  per  100  Ibs. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


85 


Is  identically  the  same  as  Range  '•  C  "  with  our  closet  shelf  and  water 
heater  connected.  Air  mixers,  valves,  cut-offs,  burners  and  connections 
are  the  same  on  all. 

This  range  is  complete  in  all  its  details,  and  will  do  cooking  and  heat 
water  for  ten  to  fifteen  persons.  L. 

Price,  $50.00. 

Prices  include  delivery  on  board  cars  in  St.  Louis.     Freight  must  be  paid  by  purchasers— 
the  rate  varying  according  to  distance— from  25c  to  $2.00  per  100  Ibs 


86  '  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


SOUPS. 


Stock. — Four  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  or  four  pounds  of  knuckle  of 
veal,  or  two  pounds  of  each;  any  bones,  trimmings  of  poultry,  or  fresh 
meat,  quarter  pound  of  lean  bacon  or  ham.  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  large 
onions,  each  stuck  with  cloves:  one  turnip,  three  carrots,  one  head  of 
celery,  three  lumps  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
whole  pepper,  one  large  blade  of  mace,  one  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  four 
quarts  and  half  pint  of  cold  water.  Cut  up  the  meat  and  bacon,  or  ham, 
into  pieces  of  about  three  inches  square;  rub  the  butter  on  the  bottom  of 
the  stewpan :  put  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  the  meat,  and  all  the  other  in- 
gredients. Cover  the  stewpan,  and  place  it  on  a  Majestic  Range,  having  a 
sharp  fire,  occasionally  stirring  its  contents.  When  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
becomes  covered  with  a  pale,  jelly-like  substance,  add  the  four  quarts  of 
cold  water,  and  simmer  very  gently  for  five  hours.  As  we  have  said  be- 
fore, do  not  let  it  boil  quickly.  Remove  every  particle  of  scum  while  it  is 
doing,  and  strain  it  through  a  five  hair  sieve.  Time:  five  and  one  half 
hours.  Average  cost,  twenty-five  cents  per  quart. 

Beef  Soup. — Take  bones  and  trimmings  from  a  sirloin  steak,  put 
over  fire  after  breakfast  in  three  quarts  water,  boil  steadily  until  about  an 
hour  before  dinner,  when  add  two  onions,  one  carrot,  three  common-sized 
potatoes,  all  sliced,  some  parsley  cut  fine,  a  red  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste 
and  put  on  a  Majestic  Range.  This  makes  a  delicious  soup,  sufficient  for 
three  persons.  All  soups  are  more  palatable  seasoned  with  onions  and  red 
pepper,  using  the  seeds  of  the  latter  with  care,  as  they  are  very  strong. 

Veal  Soup. — To  about  three  pounds  of  a  joint  of  veal,  which  must 
be  well  broken  up,  put  four  quarts  of  water  and  set  it  over  to  boil  on  a  Ma- 
jolic  Range.  Prepare  one  fourth  pound  of  macaroni  by  boiling  it  by 
it-cit.  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  it;  add  a  little  butter  to  the  macaroni 
when  it  is  tender,  strain  the  soup  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  add  the  macaroni  in  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  The  addition  of 
a  pint  of  rich  milk  or  cream  and  celery  flavor  is  relished  by  many. 

Chicken  Soup. — In  boiling  chickens  for  salad,  etc.,  the  broth 
(water  in  which  they  are  boiled)  may  be  used  for  soup.  When  the  chick- 
ens are  to  bo  served  whole,  stuff  and  tie  in  a  cloth.  To  the  broth  add  a 
dozen  tomatoes  (or  a  quart  can),  and  one  thinly-sliced  onion;  boil  twenty 
minutes  on  a  Majestic  Range,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  two  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  serve. 

Noodles  for  Soup. — Rub  into  two  eggs  as  much  sifted  flour  as 
they  will  absorb ;  then  roll  out  until  thin  as  a  wafer;  dust  over  a  little 
flour,  and  then  roll  over  and  over  into  a  roll,  cut  off  thin  slices  from  the 
edge  of  the  roll  and  shake  out  into  long  strips;  put  them  into  the  soup 
lightly  and  boil  for  ten  minutes  on  a  Majestic  Range;  salt  should  be  added 
while  mixing  with  the  flour — about  a  saltspoonful. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  SERVICE—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  87 

Oyster  Soup. — Two  quarts  of  oysters,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  teacupful  hot  water;  pepper,  salt.  Strain  all  the 
libuor  from  the  oysters;  add  the  water  and  heat.  When  near  the  boil, 
add  the  seasoning,  then  the  oysters.  Cook  on  a  Majestic  Range  about  five 
minutes  from  the  time  they  begin  to  simmer,  until  they  "ruffle."  Stir  in 
the  butter,  cook  one  minute  and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Stir  in  the  boiling 
milk,  and  send  to  table. 

Tomato  Soup. — Tomato  soup  is  a  much  relished  American  dish, 
and  is  prepared  as  follows:  Steam,  or  rather  stew  slowly,  a  mess  of 
turnips,  carrots,  and  onions,  also  a  stalk  of  celery,  with  half  a  pound  of 
lean  ham  and  a  little  bit  of  fresh  butter  over  a  slow"  lire  for  an  hour  . 
on  a  Majestic  Range.  Then  add  two  quarts  of  diluted  stock  or  of  other 
liquor  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled,  as  also  eight  or  ten  ripe  tomat«e<. 
Slew  the  whole  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  pass  through  the  sieve  into 
the  pan  again;  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  boil  for  ten  minutes  and  serve 
hot. 

To  Get  up  a  Soup  in  Haste. — Chop  some  cold  cooked  meat  fine, 
and  put  a  pint  into  a  stew-pan  with  some  gravy,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  a  little  butter  if  the  gravy  is  not  rich,  add  a  little  flour  moistened 
with  cold  water,  and  three  pints  boiling  water,  boiled  moderately  half  an 
hour  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Strain  over  some  rice  or  nicely  toasted  bread, 
and  serve.  Uncooked  meat  may  be  used  by  using  one  quart  of  cold  water 
to  a  pound  of  chopped  meat,  and  letting  it  stand  half  an  hour  before  boil- 
ing. Celery  root  may  be  grated  in  as  seasoning,  or  a  bunch  of  parsley 
thrown  in. 

Bean  Soup. — Boil  a  small  soup-bone  in  about  two  quarts  water 
until  thf  meat  can  be  separated  from  the  bone,  remove  bone,  add  a  coffee- 
cup  white  beans  soaked  for  two  hours,  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half  on  a 
Majestic  Range,  add  three  potatoes,  half  a  turnip  and  a  parsnip,  all  sliced 
'•'oil  half  an  hour  longer,  and  just  before  serving  sprinkle  in  a  few  dry 
bread-crumbs;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with  raw  onions 
sliced  very  line  for  those  who  like  them. 

Potato  Soup. — Potato  soup  is  suitable  for  a  cold  day.  Make  it  in 
the  following  manner:  Get  as  many  beef  or  ham  bones  as  yen  can,  and 
smash  them  into  fragments.  Add  a  little  bit  of  lean  ham  to  give  flavor. 
Boil  the  bone  and  ham  for  two  hours  and  a  half  at  least  on  a  Majestic 
Range.  The  bone  of  a  roast  beef  is  excellent.  Strain  off  the  liquor  care- 
fully, empty  out  the  bones  and  debris  of  the  ham.  restore  the  liquor  to  the 
put.  and  place  again  on  the  fire.  Having  selected,  washed,  and  pared 
some  nice  potatoes,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  and  boil  them  in  the  stock 
till  they  melt  away.  An  onion  or  two  may  also  be  boiled  among  the  bones 
to  help  the  flavor.*  I  do  not  like  thick  potato  soup,  and  I  usually  strain  it 
through  a  hair  sieve,  after  doing  so  placing  it  again  on  the  fire,  seasoning 
it  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  A  stick  of  celery  boiled  with  the  bones 
is  an  improvement.  Make  only  the  quantity  required  for  the  day,  as  po- 
tato soup  is  best  when  it  is  newly  made. 

'•  MAJESTIC  "—IN  ACCOMPLISHMENTS— «•  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Ox-Tail  Soup. — Take  two  ox  tails  and  two  whole  onions,  two 
rots,  a  small  turnip,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Hour,  and  a  little  white  pepper, 
add  a  gallon  of  water,  let  all  boil  for  two  hours  on  a  Majestic  Range :  then 
take  out  the  tails  and  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  return  the  bonr-  to 
the  pot,  for  a  short  time,  boil  for  another  hour,  then  strain  the  sou]),  and 
rinse  two  spoonfuls  of  arrowroot  to  add  to  it  with  the  meat  cut  from  the 
bones,  and  let  all  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Vegetable  Soup. — Two  pounds  of  course,  lean  beef,  cut  into  st 
two  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal,  chopped  to  pieces,  two  pounds  of  mutton 
bones,  and  the  bones  left  from  your  cold  veal,  cracked  to  splinters,  one 
pound  of  lean  ham,  four  large  carrots,  two  turnips,  two  onions,  bunch  of 
herbs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  two  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  seven  quarts  of  water.  Put  on  meat,  bones, 
herbs  and  water,  and  cook  slowly  live  hours  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Strain 
the  soup,  of  which  there  should  be  live  quarts.  Season  meat  and  bones, 
and  put  into  the  stock-pot  with  three  quarts  of  the  liquor.  Save  this  for 
days  to  come.  While  the  soup  for  to-day  is  cooling  that  you  may  take  off 
the  fat,  put  the  butter  into  a  frying  pan  with  the  sliced  carrots,  turnips, 
and  onions,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Now.  add  a  pint  of  the  skimmed 
stock,  and  stew  the  vegetables  tender,  stir  in  the  flour  wet  with  water,  and 
put  all,  with  your  cooled  stock,  over  the  fire  in  the  soup-kettle.  Season 
with  sugar,  cayenne  and  salt,  boil  five  minutes,  rub  through  a  colander, 
then  a  soup-sieve,  heat  almost  to  boiling,  and  serve. 

Lobster  Soup. — Procure  a  large  hen  fish,  boiled,  and  with  all  its 
coral,  if  possible.  Cut  away  from  it  all  the  meat  in  neat  little  pieces; 
beat  up  the  fins  and  minor  claws  in  a  mortar,  then  stew  the  results  in  a 
stew-pan,  slowly,  along  with  a  little  white  stock;  season  this  with  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs:  a  small  onion,  a  little  bit  of  celery,  and  a  carrot  may  be 
placed  in  the  stock,  as  also  the  toasted  crust  of  a  French  roll.  Season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  a  little  cayenne.  Simmer  the  whole  lor  about  an  hour 
on  a  Majestic  Range;  then  strain  and  return  the  liquor  to  the  saucepan, 
place  in  it  the  pieces  of  lobster,  and  having  beaten  up  the  coral  in  a  little 
flour  and  gravy,  stir  it  in.  Let  the  soup  remain  on  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes  without  boiling  and  serve  hot.  A  small  strip  of  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  may  be  boiled  in  the  stock,  and  a  little  nutmeg  may  be  added  to 
the  seasoning.  This  is  a  troublesome  soup  to  prepare,  but  there  are  many 
who  like  it  when  it  is  well  made. 

Green  Pea  Soup. — Wash  a  small  quarter  of  lamb  in  cold  water, 
and  put  it  into  a  soup-pot  with  six  quarts  of  cold  water;  add  to  it  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  and  set  it  on  a  Majestic  Range  over  a  moderate  fire 
— let  it  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  skim  it  clear,  add  a  quart  of  shelled 
peas,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  for  half  an 
hour,  then  having  scraped  the  skins  from  a  quart  of  small  young  poi 
add  them  to  the  soup;  cover  the  pot,  and  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour 
longer;  work  quarter  pound  of  butter,  and  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flour  to- 
gether, and  add  them  to  the  soup  ten  or  twelve  minutes  before  taking  it 
off  the  fire.  Serve  the  meat  on  the  dish  with  parsley  sauce  over,  and  the 
soup  in  a  tureen. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  STRENGTH—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


OYSTERS. 


Escaloped  Oysters. — Take  crushed  crackers  not  too  fine;  drain 
liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters  and  carefully  remoVe  all  bits  of  shell ;  but- 
ter a  deep  dish  or  pan,  cover  the  bottom  with  crackers,  put  in  a  layer  of 
oysters  .seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter  in  plenty'.!  then 
a  layer  of  crackers,  then  oysters,  and  so  on  until  dish  is  full,  finishing 
with  the  crackers  covered  with  bits  of  butter;  pour  over  the  whole  the 
oyster  liquor  added  to  one  pint  of  boiling  water  (boiled  and  skimmed), 
place  in  a  hot  .Majestic  Range  oven,  bake  half  an  hour,  add  another  pint 
of  hot  water,  or  half  pint  water  and  half  pint  of  milk,  in  which  a  .small 
lump  of  butler  has  been  melted;  bake  another  half  hour,  and,  to  prevent 
browning  too  much,  cover  with  a  tin  or  sheet  iron  lid.  All  bread-crumbs, 
or  a  mixture  of  crackers  and  bread-crumbs  may  be  used  when  more  con- 
venient. As  the  amount  of  liquor  in  oysters  varies,  and  the  proportion 
of  crackers  or  bread-crumbs  to  the  oysters  also  varies,  tin?  quantity  of 
water  must  be  increased  or  diminished  according  to  judgment  and  taste. 
Some  prefer  to  coek  half  the  time  given  above.  Boiled  macaroni  may  be 
used  in  place  of  cracker  crumbs. 

•  Fried  Oysters.— Drain  carefully,  remove  all  bits  of  shell,  and 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  in  a  cool  place -for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Then,  if  oysters  are  small,  pour  them  into  a  pan  of  crackers 
rolled  fine,  add  the  liquor,  mix  well,  and  let  stand  five  minutes,  add  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  mold  into  small  cakes  with  two  or  three  oysters  in 
each,  roll  in  dry  crackers  until  well  encrusted,  and  fry  in  a  Majestic 
Range,  in  hot  lard  and  butter,  or  beef-drippings.  Serve  hot  in  a  covered 
dish. 

Or.  dip  the  oysters  in  the  yolk  of  eggs,  well  seasoned  and  beaten,  then 
in  corn  meal  with  a  little  baking  powder  mixed  with  it.  and  fry  in  Maj<  -tie 
Range,  in  hot  lard  like  doughnuts;  or  if  you  have  frying  basket,  place 
them  on  that  and  drop  it  in  the  hot  lard.  Test  the  heat  as  for  doughnuts. 

Or,  drain  thoroughly,  put  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  in  a  Majestic  Range, 
turn  so  as  to  brown  on  both  sides.  They  cook  in  this  way  in  a  few 
moments,  and  the  peculiar  ilavor  of  the  oysters  is  well  preserved.  Serve 
on  a  hot  covered  dish,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  or  add  a  little  cream 
just  before  serving,  and  serve  on  toast:  or  take  two  parts  rolled  crackers 
and  one  part  corn  meal,  mix  well,  roll  the  oysters  in  it.  and  fry  in  equal 
parts  butter  and  lard.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Oyster  Fritters. — Drain  off  liquor,  boil,  skim,  and  to  a  cupful  add 
a  cup  of  milk,  two  or  three  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  rather  thick  batter.  Have  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings  ready  in  a 
kettle,  on  a  Majestic  Range,  drop  the  batter  into  it  with  a  large  spoon, 
taking  up  one  oyster  for  each  spoonful.  The  oyster  must  be  large  and 
plump. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  WATER  HEATING— "  MAJESTIC," 


90  MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

Panned  Oysters. — Cut  stale  bread  in  thin  slices,  then  round  them, 
removing  all  crust.  Make  them  to  fit  patty-pans;  toast  them,  butter,  and 
place  in  pans.  Moisten  with  three  or  four  teaspoons  of  oyster  liquor: 
then  place  on  the  toast  a  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  put 
on  top  a  small  piece  of  butter;  place  pans  in  a  baking  pan  and  put  in  a 
Majestic  Range  oven,  covering  with  a  tin  lid,  or  if  not  large  enough, 
another  pan  to  keep  in  the  steam  and  flavor;  have  a  quick  oven,  and  when 
cooked  seven  or  eight  minutes,  until  '-ruffled,''  remove  cover  and  sprinkle 
with  salt;  replace  cover  and  cook  one  minute  longer.  Serve  in  the  patty- 
pans. This  is  delicious. 

Oyster  Roll. — Cut  a  round  piece,  say  six  inches  across,  from  the  top 
of  a  well-baked  round  loaf  of  bread,  remove  the  inside  from  the  loaf, 
leaving  crust  half  an  inch  thick;  make  a  rich  oyster  stew,  and  put  in  the 
loaf  first  a  layer  of  it,  then  of  bread  crumbs,  then  oysters,  and  so  on;  place 
cover  over  the  top.  glaze  the  loaf  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and 
place  in  Majestic  Range  oven  for  a  few  moments,  Serve  very  hot. 

Oysters  in  the  Shell. — Open  the  shells,  keeping  the  deepest  ones 
for  use.  Melt  some  butter,  season  with  minced  parsley  and  pepper. 
When  slightly  cooled,  roll  each  oyster  in  it,  using  care  that  It  drips  but 
little,  and  lay  in  the  shells.  Add  to  each  shell  a  little  lemon  juice.  • 
with  grated  bread-crumbs,  place  in  a  baking-pan  and  bake  in  a  quick 
Majestic  Range  oven;  just  before  they  are  done  add  a  little  salt.  Serve  in 
the  shells. 

Oyster  Stew. — Put  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  on  the  Majestic 
Range,  let  boil,  skim,  and  season  with  butter  and  pepper,  add  oysters. 
let  come  to  a  boil  only,  season  with  salt  and  serve.  This  is  pronounced 
a  "royal  stew.'' 

Steamed  Oysters. — Lay  some  oysters  in  the  shell  in  some  air-tight 
vessel,  placing  the  upper  shell  downward  so  the  liquor  will  not  run  out 
when  they  open.  Set  them  on  a  Majestic  Range  over  a  pot  of  boiling 
water  (where  they  will  get  the  steam),  and  boil  hard  for  twenty  minuti-s : 
if  the  oysters  are  open  they  are  done;  if  not,  steam  till  they  do  open. 
Serve  at  once  and  eat  hot,  with  salt  and  a  bit  of  butter. 

Or,  wash  and  drain  one  quart  select  oysters,  put  on  a  Majestic  R;i 
in  pan,  and  place  in  steamer  over  boiling  water,  cover  and  steam  til! 
oysters  are  plump  with  edges  ruffled;  place  in  heated  dish  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

Oyster  Omelet. — Add  to  a  half  cup  of  cream  six  eggs  beaten  very 
light,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  pour  into  a  frying-pan  on  a  Majestic 
Range,  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter;  drop  in  a  do/en  large  oysters  cut  in 
halves,  or  chopped  fine  with  parsely,  and  fry  until  a  light  brown.  Double 
it  over  and  serve  immediately. 

Oyster  Patties.— Take  of  oysters  according  to  the  number  to  be 
served.  Place  the  oysters  in  the  same  pan  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a. 
little  flour:  stir,  and  let  simmer  a  few  minutes  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Bake 
shells  of  rich  puff  paste  in  patty  tins,  and  also  small  rounds  for  covers; 
heat  the  shells  and  fill  with  oysters;  put  on  the  covers  and  set  in  the 
Majestic  Range  oven  for  five  minutes.  Serve  immediately. 

"  MAJESTIC"— IN  DEVELOPMENT—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  91 


PUDDINGS. 


Christmas  Plum  Pudding.— One  pound  of  suet,  chopped  fine, 
one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  grated  bread,  one  pound  of  raisins, 
two  pounds  of  currants,  one  glass  of  brandy,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground 
ginger,  two  teaspooufuls  of  nutmeg,  one  of  cloves,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one 
pint  of  milk:  beat  well,  and  steam  five  hours  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Serve 
with  rich  wine  sauce. 

Fruit  Pudding. — One  cup  of  suet,  chopped;  one  cup  of  molasses, 
one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  chop- 
ped raisins;  steam  three  hours  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Serve  with  sauce. 

Suet  Pudding. — One  cup  of  suet,  one  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
rnilk,  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  two  cups  of  Graham  Hour,  one  cup  of 
wheat  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Steam  three  hours  on  a 
Majestic  Range. 

Graham  Pudding. — Two  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of  mo- 
.  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  pinch  of  salt,  and 
; -pooaf ul  of  soda.  Steam  two  hours  on  a  Majestic  Range. 

Puff  Pudding. — Mix  one  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter.  Pour  into  a 
greased  pan;  put  steamed  apples  on  top,  then  pour  on  more  batter. 
Strain  one-half  hour  on  a  Majestic  Range.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Queen  of  Puddings. — One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  of 
milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon.  Bake  in  a  Majestic  Range;  spread 
w  ith  a  layer  of  fruit  jelly.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth  with 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  then  spread  on  top  and 
brown. 

Cream  Pudding. — Mix  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one  grated 
lemon.  Beat  six  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  add  one  pint  of  flour,  one  pint  of 
milk  and  one  pint  of  rich  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  buttered^dish 
in  a  Majestic  Range.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

Tipsy  Pudding.  —  Saturate  a  loaf  of  sponge  cake,  baked  in  a 
Majestic  Range,  with  wine  or  brandy;  make  a  rich  boiled  custard,  place 
the  cake  in  a  deep  glass  dish,  and  pour  the  custard  over  it.  Stick  the  top 
full  of  blanched  almonds,  and  serve  cold. 

Rice  Pudding.— One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of 
rice,  three-quarters  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half 
cup  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped;  boil  the  rice  five  minutes  in  one  pint 
of  milk.  When  cool,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  also  butter  and  sugar, 
then  the  pint  of  unboiled  milk,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the  raisins 
last";  add  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Cook  one  hour  on  a  Majestic  Range, 
and  eat  cold. 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  NAME— -  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOR. 

Orange  Pudding. — Peel  and  cut  up  six  oranges  into  the  bottom 
of  a  dish;  pour  over  them  a  custard.  Make  the  frosting  of  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  and  one-third  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Spread  over  the  top,  brown  a 
little  in  a  Majestic  Range  and  serve  cold. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate;  scald  the 
milk,  and  add  bread  crumbs  and  chocolate,  take  from  the  fire  and  add. 
one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  bake  fifteen  minutes 
in  a  Majestic  Range.  Spread  wilh  meringue,  brown,  and  serve  with 
cream . 

Cottage  Pudding. — One  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one 
egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking 
powder;  flavor  with  extract  of  lemon;  bake  one-half  hour  in  a  Majestic 
Range.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

Railroad  Pudding. — Beat  one  egg,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of 
lemon;  bake  in  a  Majestic  Range.  Serve  with  foaming  sauce. 

Peach  Cottage  Pudding. — Stir  sliced  peaches  into  a  batter  made 
of  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  beaten 
egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der; bake  in  a  loaf  in  a  Majestic  Range,  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Tapioca  Fruit  Pudding. — Soak  one  cup  of  tapioca  over  night, 
cook  .soft  iu  water,  then  add,  and  cook  thoroughly  on  a  Majestic  ].'.•• 
one  pint  preserved  raspberries,  cool  in  a  mold ;  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Chocolate  Pudding  "No.  2. — Boil  one  pint  of  milk,  add  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one  large  spoonful 
of  corn  starch :  boil  on  a  Majestic  Range  until  thickened,  then  pour  into  a 
mould  and  place  on  ice.  Serve  with  cream  flavored  with  extract  of 
vanilla. 

Macaroni  Pudding. — One  cup  broken  macaroni,  one  quart  milk, 
four  eggs,  juice  and  grated  peel  of  one-half  lemon,  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  boil  the  macaroni  in  one- 
half  the  milk  until  tender:  while  hot  stir  in  the  butter,  sugar,  lemon  and 
eggs.  Bake  in  a  buttered  mould  one-half  hour  in  a  Majestic  Range. 

Delmonico  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of 
corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  milk;  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  boil  five  minutes,  then  pour  into  a  pudding  dish 
and  bake  one  hour  in  a  Majestic  Range;  beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  with 
sugar  and  flavor  with  extract  of  lemon;  return  to  the  Majestic  oven  and 
brown. 

Indian  Pudding. — Pour  enough  boiling  water  on  two  cups  of  In- 
dian meal  to  wet,  add  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  two  cups  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  molasses  and  one  cup  of  seeded 
raisins;  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake 
three  hours  in  a  Majestic  Range,  and  serve  with  cream. 

"  MAJESTIC  "—IN  FINISH—'-  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


COFFEE,   TEA,   ETC, 


Steamed  Coffee. — Put  coffee  into  the  pot,  pour  the  boiling  water 
on  it;  place  this  pot  (which  is  made  to  lit)  into  the  top  of  the  tea-kettle, 
and  let  cook  from  ten  to  twenty  minutes  on  a  Majestic  Itange,  while 
water  in  kettle  is  kept  boiling  all  the  time.  This  makes  a  clear,  delicious 
coffee.  Some  persons  hold  that  by  first  wetting  the  coffee  with  cold 
water,  bringing  it  to  boiling  point,  and  then  pouring  in  water,  more  of 
the  strength  is  extracted. 

Army  Coffee.— Coffee  or  tea  may  be  made  quickly  by  placing  the 
required  quantity  of  cold  water  in  the  pot  and  adding  the  coffee  tied  up 
in  a  sack  of  a  line  gauze  or  piece  of  muslin;  bring  to  boiling  point,  boil 
live  minutes  and  serve.  Make  tea  in  the  same  way,  except  that  the  tea  is 
put  loose  in  the  water  and  simply  allowed  to  boil  up  once  on  a  Majestic 
Range. 

Coffee  with  Whipped  Cream. — For  six  cups  of  coffee  of  fair 
si/o  take  one  cup  sweet  cream  whipped  light  with  a  little  sugar;  put  into 
each  cup  the  desired  amount  of  sugar  and  about  a  tablespoon  boiling 
milk:  pour  the  coffee  over  these  and  lay  upon  the  surface  of  the  hot  liquid 
a  large  spoonful  of  the  frothed  cream,  giving  a  gentle  stir  to  each  cup 
before  serving.  This  is  known  to  some  as  meringued  coffee  and  is  an 
I'i'-gant  French  preparation  of  the  popular  drink.  Chocolate  served  in 
this  way  is  delicious. 

Vienna  Coffee. — Filter  instead  of  boiling  the  coffee,  allowing  one 
tablespoon  ground  coffee  to  each  person  and  "'one  for  the  pot;  "put  a 

quart  of  cream  into  a  custard  kettle  or  pail  set  in  boiling  water,  and  put 
it  where  it  will  keep  boiling;  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  and  mix 
well  with  three  tablespoons  cold  milk.  As  soon  as  the  cream  is  hot  re- 
move from  lire,  add  the  mixed  egg  and  milk,  stir  together  briskly  for  a 
minute,  and  then  serve. 

Another  method  is  to  pour  boiling  water  over  the  coffee,  cover 
closely,  boil  one  minute,  remove  to  the  side  of  the  range  a  few  minutes  to 
.  and  serve.  Allow  two  heaping  tablespoons  coffee  to  a  pint  of 
water.  The  less  time  the  coffee  is  cooked  the  more  coffee  is  required,  but 
the  liner  the  flavor.  The  late  Professor  Blot  protested  against  boiling  the 
coffee  at  all.  as  in  his  opinion  the  aroma  was  evaporated  and  only  the 
bitter  flavor  left. 

Tea. — Pour  into  a  granite  tea-steeper  a  very  little  boiling  water,  and 
then  put  in  the  tea,  allowing  one  teaspoon  of  tea  to  each  person.  Pour 
over  this  boiling  water  until  the  steeper  is  little  more  than  half  full; 
cover  tightly  and  let  it  stand  where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil, 
the  tea  infuse,  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  then  pour  into  the  grs 

. i ^ 

"MAJESTIC"— IN   ECONOMY— ••  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 

tea-urn,  adding  more  boiling  water,  in  the  proportion  of  one  cup  of 
water  for  every  teaspoon  of  dry  tea  which  has  been  infused.  Have  boil- 
ing water  in  a  water-pot,  and  weaken  each  cup  of  tea  as  desired.  Do  not 
use  water  for  tea  that  has  boiled  long.  Spring  water  is  best  for  tea,  and 
filtered  water  next  best.  Tea  should  never  be  boiled,  but  be  sure  that  the 
water  boils  that  you  use  for  steeping.  From  three  to  five  minutes  is  suf- 
ficient time ;  if  it  stands  longer  the  tea  is  apt  to  lose  its  aroma  and  have 
the  bitter  taste  of  the  leaf. 

Chocolate. — Grate  chocolate,  allowing  for  one  quart  of  water  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate;  mix  smooth  with  a  little  water  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes  on  a  Majestic  Range,  add  one  quart  rich  milk,  boil  a  few 
minutes  longer,  and  serve  hot,  with  sugar. 

Chocolate. — Take  six  tablespoons  scraped  chocolate,  or  three  of 
chocolate  and  three  of  cocoa,  dissolve  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  boil 
bard  fifteen  minutes,  add  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  let  scald,  and  serve  hot. 
This  is  enough  for  six  persons.  Cocoa  can  also  be  made  after  this  recipe  : 
Some  boil  either  coca  or  chocolate  only  one  minute  and  then  serve,  while 
others  make  it  the  day  before  using,  boiling  tt  for  one  hour  on  a  Majestic 
.Range,  and  when  cool  skimming  off  the  oil,  and  when  wanted  for  use. 
heat  it  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  the  milk.  In  this  way  it  is  equally 
good  and  much  more  wholesome.  Cocoa  is  from  the  seed  of  the  fruit  of 
a  small  tropical  tree.  There  are  several  forms  in  which  it  is  sold,  the 
most  nutritious  and  convenient  being  chocolate,  the  next  cocoa,  then 
cocoa  nibs,  and  last  cocoa  shells.  The  ground  bean  is  simply  cocoa; 
ground  fine  and  mixed  with  sugar  it  is  chocolate;  the  beans  broken  into 
bits  are  "  nibs."  The  shells  are  the  shells  of  the  bean,  usually  removed 
before  grinding.  The  beans  are  roasted  like  coffee  and  ground  between 
hot  rollers. 

Vienna  Chocolate. — Put  into  a  coffee-pot  set  in  boiling  water  one 
quart  of  new  milk  (or  a  pint  each  of  cream  and  milk),  stir  into  it  three 
lumping  tablespoons  grated  chocolate  mixed  to  a  paste  with  a  cold  milk, 
let  it  boil  two  or  three  minutes  and  serve  at  once.  To  make  good  choco- 
late good,  materials  are  required. 

Iced  Tea. — Prepare  tea  in  the  morning  making  it  stronger  and 
sweeter  than  usual;  strain  and  pour  into  a  clean  stone  jug  or  glass  bottle 
and  set  aside  in  the  ice-chest  until  ready  to  use.  Drink  from  goblets 
without  cream.  Serve  ice  broken  in  small  pieces  on  a  platter  nicely  gar- 
nished with  well-washed  grape  leaves.  Iced  tea  may  be  prepared  from 
either  green  or  black  alone,  but  it  is  considered  an  improvement  to  mix 
the  two.  Tea  made  like  that  for  iced  tea  (or  that  left  in  the  tea-pot  after 
a  meal), -with  sugar  to  taste,  a  slice  or  two  of  lemon,  a  little  of  the  juice, 
and  some  pieces  of  cracked  ice  makes  a  delightful  drink.  Serve  in 
glasses. 


"  MAJESTIC"— IN  USEFULNESS—"  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK.  95 

WHAT  PEOPLE  SHOULD  KNOW. 

That  a  range,   a  stove,  or  heating  apparatus,   has  no  more  draught 

than  a  steam  boiler  or  a  square  box. 
That  the  chimney  creates  the  draught;  the  taller,    the  better  the 

draught. 

That  it  should  be  higher  than  any  other  part  of  the  building. 
That  it  should  be  not  less  than  9x9  inches  inside,  and  smooth. 
That  two  smoke  pipes  should  not  enter  the  same  chimney. 
That  every  other  flue  opening  in  the  chimney  must  be  closed. 
That  the  space  below  where  the  pipe  enters  should  be  cut  off 
That  new  chimneys  are  often  left  half  filled  with  brick  and  mortar. 
That  old  flues  are  often  cracked  outside,  not  half  high  enough,  and 

full  of  soot. 

That  such  conditions  kill  the  draught. 

That  the  pipe  entering  chimney  must  be  same  size  as  on  the  range. 
That  the  larger  the  range,   the  larger  and  higher  must  be  the  chim- 
ney. 
That  good  fuel  must  be  provided;  if  wood,  well  seasoned;  if  coal, 

well  selected. 

That  the  fire-box  should  not  be  filled  above  top  of  linings. 
That  the  flues  of  range  must  be  cleaned  once  a  week. 
That  in  10,000  Majestic  Ranges  not  twenty  complaints  are  made  by 

the  users. 
That  such  complaints  are  caused  wholly  by  bad  flues,   or  inefficient 

cooks. 

That  our  guarantee  is  based  upon  the  assumption 
That  the  purchaser  will  provide  the  proper  chimney  flue. 
That  dealers  are  not  authorized  to  say— ; -They  will  take  it  back." 
That  it  is  too  well  established  to  need  such  an  assertion. 
That  we  and  our  dealers  guarantee  the  range,   and  not  the  flue. 
That  under  proper  conditions  nothing  on  earth  works  belt 

"MAJESTIC"— IN  THINGS  PAST— "  MAJESTIC." 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


For 


MAJESTIC   RANGE  A. 

Double  Mantel  Shelf  wtten  taken  IN  PLACE  of  plain 
%vc  eharii'e  extra.  *:2.UO. 


SEE  PAGE  9. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  B. 

For  Dunlile  <  Hoee.1  Shelf  when  taken  IN  I-LACE  of  plain 
we  charge  cxlni.  S.">.0<). 


SEE  PAGE  9. 


98 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  COOK  BOOK. 


MAJESTIC  RANGE  C. 

Charcoal  Broiler  connected,      -  -  extra,  $10.00. 

40-gallon  Galvanized  Iron  Pressure  Boiler  connected,     -     extra,    "2\. 00. 
Doable  Closet  Shelf  IN  PLACE  of  plain,  extra,      5.00. 

Broiler  or  Boiler  may  be  connected  on  either  end  of  Bange,  as  desired. 

SEE  PAGE  9. 


CIRCULATING  BOILER. 


COLD    WATCH 


Many  places  outside  of  large  cities 
have,  within  the  past  year  or  two, 
added  to  other  improvements  the 
never-failing  evidence  of  better 
civilization,  viz. :  Waterworks,  sup- 
plying from  one  central  point  an 
abundance  of  water.  As  a  result, 
many  that  heretofore  knew  nothing 
of  the  uses  or  benefits  of  hydraulic 
pressure  boilers  are  anticipating 
their  use,  but  knowing  little  about 
their  connection  or  operation, 


WATER    BACK 

and  having  no  plumber  to  ex- 
plain   matters,   write  to   us  for 
information.      To    accurately  de- 
monstrate the  question  this  cut  was 
made.    It  shows  hot  and  cold  water 
flow  apd  return  pipes,  how  con- 
nected to  boiler  and  water-heater. 
The  heater  is  tapped  for  one-inch 
pipes,  and  connection  with  boiler 
should  be  the  same,  with  a  gentle 
easy  curve,  as  shown  in  cut.    Short  angles  greatly 
retard  circulation. 


Open.     Closed. 


NEW 
REGULATING     DAflPERS. 

This  illustration  shows  our  Xew  Regulating 
Dampers,  which  are  u.<ed  on  all  Hotel  Kanges 
with  t\vo  ovens,  one  tire.  The  simplicity  of 
this  invention  recommends  it  to  all  users,  as 
there  is  nothing  to  i;vt  out  of  repair,  and  a 
child  can  operate  it.  The  eiit  explains  itself. 


•'• 


THE  TWIN  SHIPS 


MAJESTIC  AND  TEUTONIC 


"\\Vro  ereat' 

skill    and    ingenuity/  of.  man  couid 
possible,  and  for  a*  time  it  was 

« 

a  question  as  to  which  of  the  two 
was  the  fastest  sailer. 

But  the  peerless 

MAJESTIC 


roved    herself  the    Queen    of 
the  .Ocean,  her  time  Being  5   days, 
~  13  hours  and  54  minutes. 


TRADE  MARK 


MAJESTIC   RANGE 


By  its  own  inherent  virtues,    has  proved  to  be  the  peer"  of  every  other 

•» 
cocking  apparatus.     Expros.-iv  \\unis  do  not  convey  its  varied 

• 
and  unequiiled'  qualities.     There  is  not  a  rudiment  of  « 

ancient  form  in  its  construction,,  it  being 


NEW — GRAND — AND — MAJESTIC. 


