LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 


5|sp.,....Lniap5i-tgl^i  :^n. 

Shelf  ....HZ..8 1 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


s 


FARINACEOUS  GOODS  ARE  UNEXCELLED. 


00         fl 

.2    s 


'^         U«I 


a 


U2 


O 


.^ 


^ 

^ 


o 


53     i^    ^    -«! 


/4 


% 


lyv'iijjS^-ijiifii: 


^•■'^:-i'm 


i-1 
o 

_3 

irf 

fl 

CJ 

1^ 

Q 

g 

^ 

O 

n 

.H 

Sm 

r^ 

to 

5j 

'Si) 

^'3 

-2 

w 
rf 

•*J 

r^< 

-0 

«-» 

fi 

a: 

iir* 

"^ 
3 

si 

fn 

w 

Iff 

>>•• 

-lo 

rt 

o 

cC 

Oi 

«^-4 

O 

^1 

'o 

L, 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 


il^p ©0jn|nr^  f  o, 

Shelf .. 

UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


do 


e 


:^ta,bles 

lew 


Freiioli  Olives 


The  above  for  sal<"!  by 


mm  &  CO. 


CO 

O 


Dss  &ii(l  !wo  \  \m 


WINSLOW,  RAND  &  WATSON, 

Importers  and  Jobbers  of 

af^d  F^oa<^h0P^  of  Coffee, 

197     AND     199     STATE     ST.,     BOSTON. 


-(:OUR  SPECIALTIES  ARE:)- 


C    PURITY  JAVA, 

■^    -        PURITY  JAVA  and  MOCHA, 

HIGH  LIFE  JAVA  and  MOCHA 

We  sincerely  believe  that  the  quality  of  these  Coffees  is  far 
superior  to  any  ever  offered  for  sale  in  Windham  County.  Their 
absolute  purity  and  delicacy  of  flavor,  have  won  for  them  a  na- 
tional reputation;  their  drinking  qualities  are  extra  fine;  they 
draw  heavy  and  still  retain  their  hifrh  flavor  in  the  cup.  which  is 
peculiar  to  these  brands  alone.  High  Life  Mocha  and  Java  is 
sold  only  in  one  and  two  pound  air  tight  cans,  und  every  label 
bears  our  signature. 


FOR    SALE    BY 


W.  H.  Mansfield  &  Co., 

And  other  leading  grocers  in  Connecticut. 


Important  to  the  Public  ! 


*  V '.        ^         o 


* 


KENNEDY'S  THIN  WATERS 

Are  the  original  and  only  genuine  Thin  Water  Wafer 
on  the  market.  Packed  attractively  in  one  and  two  pound 
boxes.     Always  ask  for  Kennedy's. 

MANUFACTURERS    OF. 

ALL    KINDS    OF    FANCY    BISCUITS    ! 

Zej3liyrs,  Champions,  Graham  Wafers,  Oatmeal  Wafers, 
Butter  Wafers,  Jockey  Clubs,  Cream  Wafers,  Saltines,  Cam- 
bridge Salts,  Alberts,  Oswegos,  and  a  line  of  Sweet  Biscuits 
too  large  to  enumerate. 

Orange,  Vanilla,  Strawberry,  Lemon,  and  Ginger 
WAFERS  packed  in  handsome  one  pound  cans. 

The  Best  Goods  in  the  World. 

R  A.  KENNEDY  CO., 

Cambridgeport,   Chicago,    New  York,    Washington, 
Philadelphia,  St.  Paul,  Minneapolis. 


All  the  above  named  Biscuits  sold  by 

W.    H.    MANSFIELD    &    CO.,     Putnam 


THE 


MANSFIELD 


iMmm 


A  Careful  Compilation  of  Tried  and  True  Recipes. 


Copyiight,  1890,  by  W.  H.  Mansfield  &  Co. 


PUBLISHED    BY 


W,  H,  MANSFIELD  &  CO, 

^^'?'    THE  GROCERS, 


(]or.  Main  and  Pomfret  Sts..  Putnam.  'Conn 


"We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art; 
We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart ; 
We  may  live  without  friends  ;  we  may  live  without  books ; 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks." 


PUTNAM,    CO 
THE      PATRIOT      PR"! 

1890 


y 


VICTOR  FLOUR 
Is  the  Best  ! 

And  will  continue  to  be  the  Best. 

Victor  will  be  the  best  under  all  circumstances. 

Some  other  brands  of  flour  may  sometimes 
make  as  good  bread,  but  for  reliability  and  uniform- 
ity the  Victor  will  be  the  victor,  as  it  has  been  the 
victor  for  the  past  14  years. 

Always  trouble  in  the  family  without  good 
bread  in  the  house. 

Its  enormous  sales  are  due  to  the  fact  that  the 
best  cooks  always  use  the  Victor. 

Don't  spend  your  time,  money,  patience  and 
material  in  trying  to  match  the  Victor  with  other 
so  called  "best  brands." 


W.  H.  MANSFIELD  &  CO. 

Putnam,  Conn., 

Mill  Agents  for  Windham  County. 


SOUPS. 


All  meats  and  boues  for  soup  should  be  boiled  a  long  time, 
and  then  set  aside  until  the  next  day,  in  order  that  the  fat  may 
be  removed.  Then  add  the  vegetables,  rice  or  herbs  from  an 
hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half.  A  slight  addition  of  Tournade's 
Kitchen  Bouquet  adds  greatly  to  the  flavor  and  color,  for 
many  of  the  following  recipes. 

TO  PKEPARE  SOUP  STOCK 

Five  pounds  from  a  leg  of  beef,  three  pounds  from  a  shoul- 
der of  lamb,  three  pounds  from  a  leg  of  veal.  Boil  gently 
five  hours,  putting  in  one  onion  and  one  stalk  of  celery.  Boil 
another  hour  and  then  strain,  adding  ?alt  and  pepper.  This 
is  ready  for  clear  soup  or  for  the  foundation  of  other  soups. 
CREAM  OF  BARLEY  SOUP. 

One  teacup  of  pearl  barley  well  washed,  three  pints  of  chick- 
en or  veal  clear  stock,  one  onion.  Cook  slowly  together  for 
four  or  five  hours ;  add  one  and  a  half  pints  of  boiling  milk, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  buttei%  and  three  well  beaten  fj^gs, 
salt  arid  pepj)er  to  taste.  Let  it  stay  on  the  stove  for  a  few 
minutes  after  the  milk,  eggs  and  butter  are  added,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  soup  stock,  one  can  of  Old  Reliable  tomatoes, 
or  one  quart  stewed  tomatoes,  four  dessert  spoons  of  sugar, 
salt  to  taste,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  four  large  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  three  large  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  rubbed  smooth 
and  stirred  in  to  thicken.  Strain  on  to  cubes  of  fried  bread 
or  browned  bread,  a  little  pepper. 

BOUILLON 

Six  pounds  beef  and  bone,  soup  bones,  for  ten  persons : 
cut  up  the  meat  and  break  the  bones,  add  two  quarts  of  cold 
water  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  until  all  the  strength  is  ex- 
hausted from  the  meat ;  it  will  take  about  four  hours.  Straie 
through  a  fine  sieve,  removing  every  particle  of  fat,  and  if 
there  is  more  than  ten  cupfuls  reduce,  it  by  boiling  to  that 
quantity ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  only.  It  is  served  in 
bouillon  cups  at  luncheon  and  evening  comiDanies. 

Use  Victor  Flour  and  be  Happy 


6 
SOUP  A  L'OIGNON. 

Slice  fine  four  large  white  onions,  put  into  a  stewpan  with 
four  ounces  of  butter,  stir  and  fry  slowly  until  softened  and 
slightly  browned;  besprinkle  with  two  ounces  of  sifted  flour, 
dilute  with  two  quarts  of  beef  broth  and  a  quart  of  water, 
atid  salt  and  pepper  and  boil  ten  minutes.  INJeanwhile  cut 
in  thin  slices,  and  dry  in  the  oven  about  four  ounces  of  bread ; 
have  a  well-buttered  soup  tureen  bestrewn  with  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese,  put  in  a  layer  of  bread,  sprinkle  grated  cheese 
over,  add  two  more  layers  of  each,  finishing  with  the  cheese ; 
pour  the  boiling  soup  over,  cover  for  a  few  minutes  to  give 
time  for  the  cheese  to  melt  and  the  bread  to  soak,  and  serve. 
The  cnions  may  also  be  strained  without  imparing  the  flavor 
and  richness  of  the  soup, and  before  serving  add  a  teaspoonf  ul 
of  Tournade's  Kitchen  Bouquet. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Three  pints  of  tomatoes,  stewed  and  strained,  a  little  su- 
gar, one  onion,  two  quarts  of  beef  stock,  salt  and  pepper. 
CROUTSONS. 
Slice  yeast  bread  and  spread  with  butter  on  both  sides. 
Cut  in  small  squares  and  brown  in  the  oven  very  quickly. 
To  be  served  with  soujd. 

MOCK  BISQUE  SoUP. 
A  can  of  Old  Reliable  tomatoes,  three  pints  of  milk,  one 
large  tablespoon  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  a  scant  teaspoon  of  soda.  Put  the  toma- 
to on  to  stew,  and  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  to  boil,  reserv- 
ing half  a  cupful  to  mix  with  flour.  Mix  the  flour  smoothly 
with  the  cold  milk,  stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  cool  ten 
minutes.  To  the  tomato  add  the  soda;  stir  well  and  strain. 
Add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  milk,  and  then  to  the  to- 
matoes. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 
One  quart  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fljur,  two  of 
butter,  two  heads  of  celery,  and  a  little  mace.  Boil  celery  in 
a  pint  of  water  for  an  hour ;  boil  mace  and  milk  together. 
Mix  flour  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk  and  add  to 
boiling  milk.     Cook  ten  minutes.     Mash  celejy  in  the  water 

Old  Reliable  Tomatoes  are  the  BEST 


7 
in  which  it  has  been  cooked  and  stir  into  boiling  milk.     Add 
butter,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.     Strain  and  serve 
immediately.     It  is  much  improved  by  adding  a  half  cup  of 

whipped  cream. 

FISH  CHOWDER  NO.  1. 

Take  three  pounds  of  fish,  either  cod  or  haddock,  corned 
fish  I  prefer,  five  potatoes  and  tw'o  onions.  Put  them  on  and 
boil  one  hour  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water.  Cut  your  fish  in 
small  pieces,  then  put  together  aud  cook  until  done.  Add 
three  crackers  and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  lastly  one  quart  of 
milk  heated  to  boiling  point,  a  half  cup  of  powdered  crackers 
in  milk,  one-fourth  jjound  of  pork  or  butter,  pepper  to  taste. 
FISH  CHOWDER  NO.  2. 

For  a  fish  of  four  pounds,  take  ten  potatoes,  one  pint  of 
milk,  three  pints  of  water  and  about  four  slices  cf  pork.  Cut 
the  pork  in  small  pieces  and  try  out  all  the  fat,  using  only 
the  fat  in  the  chowder,  or  use  butter  if  you  wish.  Slice  the 
potaioes  and  j^ut  on  in  the  water,  when  they  begin  to  grow 
soft,  put  ill  the  fish  (cut  up  in  pieces)  and  cook  for  twenty 
minutes.  Just  before  taking  from  the  stove  add  the  milk, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

CLAM  STEW^ 

Put  two  quarts  of  milk  on  to  scald  and  have  heating  at 
the    same   time    one    quart    of  clams.     Add   about  one  half 
pound  of  butter  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Do  not  cook  any  after  putting  in  the  clams. 
TURKEY  SOUP. 

Take  the  remnants  of  a  turkey  (say  left  from  dinner), 
add  to  them  two  or  three  quarts  of  water,  boil  two  hours. 
JULIENNE  SOUP. 

Take  two  medium  sized  carrots,  a  medium  sized  turnip, 
a  piece  of  celery,  the  cere  of  a  lettuce,  and  an  onion.  Cut 
them  into  strips  about  an  inch  long.  Fry  the  onions  in  but- 
ter without  allowing  it  to  take  color,  add  the  carrots,  turnips 
and  celery,  raw,  if  tender ;  if  not  boil  them  separately  for  v 
few  minutes  ;  after  frying  all  for  a  few  minutes,  season  with 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  then  moisten  with 
a  gill  of  broth ;  boil  until  reduced  to  a  glaze,  add  two   quarts 

We  Sell  Tournade's  Kitchen  Bouquet  and  recommend  it 


8 
of  ffood  stock  skimmed,  and  put  through  sieve,  and  remove 
the  stew  pan  to  the  back  of  the  stove  so  that  it  may  boil 
only  partially ;  quarter  of  an  hour  after  add  the  lettuce  which 
has  been  boiled  in  other  water ;  boil  all  together. 
BISQUE  OF  LOBSTER. 

Two  pounds  of  lobster,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  flour  or  corn  starch,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  white  peppei",  one  quar- 
ter of  cayenna  pepper,  one  pint  of  water.  Cut  the  tender 
pieces  of  lobster  into  quarter  inch  dice.  Put  the  claw  meat 
and  any  tough  part  with  the  bones  of  the  body  into  a  pint  of 
cold  water,  boil  twenty  minutes,  add  water  as  it  boils  away. 
Put  the  coral  on  paper,  dry  in  the  oven.  Boil  one  quart  of 
milk,  thicken  it  with  the  flour  and  butter.  L'oil  ten  minutes, 
strain  the  water  from  the  bones  and  add  to  the  milk,  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Rub  the  dry  coral  through  a  stainer  and 
use  enough  to  give  the  soup  a  bright  pink  color,  pour  over 
the  dice  in  a  tureen. 

PEA  SOUP. 

One  pint  of  split  peas,  let  them  stand  over  night  in  cold 
water,  strain  in  the  morning,  pour  cold  water  over  them,  and 
boil  until  the  peas  are  like  jelly  ;  add  one  slice  of  pork  ;  cook 
two  hours. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Boil  a  beaf  bone  two  hours;  add  salt, strain  and  put  with 
this,  chopped  fine,  five  cents  worth  of  soup  vegetables:  boil 
all  together  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

TURTLE  BEAN  SOUP. 

One  pint  black  beans  soaked  in  water  over  night,  add 
one  gallon  water,  half  pound  salt  2:)ork,  half  pound  beef  one 
onion  and  a  grated  carrot;  strciin  after  bciling  three  or  four 
hours.  Put  a  little  wine,  one  lemon  and  a  hard  boiled  egg, 
sliced  in  a  tureen.     Pour  the  soup  over  them. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

A  quart  of  milk,  six  large  potatoes,one  stalk  of  celery,  an 
onio)i,  and  a  tab'.espoonfui  of  butter.  Put  milk  to  boil  with 
onion  and  celery:    pare   potatoes    and   boil   thirty   minutes, 

Old  Reliable  Corn  always  pleases 


9 
drain  aud  mash  fine.  Add  boiling  milk  and  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Rub  through  a  strainer  and  serve  immedi- 
ately. A  cupful  of  whipped  cream,  added  when  in  the  tureen' 
is  a  gi-eat  improvement.  This  soup  must  not  be  allowed  to 
stand,  not  even  if  kept  hot.  Serve  as  soon  as  ready.  It  is 
excellent. 

NOODLE  SOUP. 

Four  pounds  of  veal  boiled  till  tender,  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  with  enough  fl<  ur  stirred  in  to  make  a  very  stiff 
dough;  roll  the  dough  to  thinness  of  a  wafer  and  dry;  roll  up 
the  sheet  and  cut  in  sbavings;  stir  into  soup  fifteen  minutes 
before  serving. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Two  chickens  boiled  in  two  quarts  of  water  until  the 
meat  will  fall  from  the  bones.  Take  meat  from  the  soup, 
leave  the  bones  and  boil  one  hour  longer;  then  strain  through 
an  old  napkin  and  put  on  to  boil  with  two  tablespoons  of 
jDeail  barley ;  boil  until  soft,  then  strain  and  add  one-half  cup 
of  cream  with  a  small  teaspoon  of  flour.  Scald,  not  boil,  and 
then  serve. 

CORN  SOUP. 

One  can  of  Old  Reliable  corn,  chopped  fine,  one  quart  of 
milk,  one  pint  of  hot  water,  one  heaping  tablespoouful  of 
flour,  two  tablesjooonfuls  of  butter,  one  slice  of  onion,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  the  corn  in  the  water  thirty  min- 
utes ;  let  the  milk  and  onion  come  to  a  boil ;  have  the  flour 
and  butter  mixed  together  and  add  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  milk ;  when  perfectly  smooth  stir  into  the  milk  and 
cook  eight  minutes.  Take  out  the  onion  and  the  corn.  Let 
boil  up  and  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve  or  colander  and 
send  to  table. 

BROWN  SOUP. 

One  large  beef  shank,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  two  onions, 
a  handful  of  ppjDper  corns.  Boil  all  together  in  cold  water 
slowly  all  day.  Skim  and  strain  the  next  day  and  put  on 
stove.  Add  one  white  and  one  egg  shell,  boil  five  minutes, 
strain  through  a  fine  cloth  and  let  it  settle  all  day.  Heat  be- 
fore dinner  and  add  a  glas&  of  wine  and  rinsfs  of  egef. 


"»&• 


Ask  Your  Grocer  for  Sample  of  Kitchen  Bouquet. 


USE  TOUSNADE'S 


00 

F-H 

o 


OD 
O 


O 

?:3 


PS 


^ 


3D 

r^ 

J> 

<;:^ 

h"""^ 

s 

p 

OD 

^ 

n 

OD 

» 

;3 

^ 

H 

P 

fl^ 

o 
•-s 

'A 

0^ 

Pt" 

W 

S 

^ 

M 

es 

17— 

V! 

0 

g 

H^ 

<r^ 

(^ 

00 

©* 

P 


Acknowledged  tlie  best  article  of  its  kind  by  Pro- 
prietors and  Chief  Cooks  of  the  most 
prominent  Hotels  in  New  York. 


SOLD  BY  ALL  FIRST  GLASS  GROCERS. 

Owing  to  the  advance  in  the  art  of  cooking,  this  article  has 
rapidly;become  a  household  necessity,  and  is  daily  growing  in 
popular  esteem.    It  imparts  to 

Soups,  Gravies  and  Sauces  a  Delicious  Fragrance, 

As  well  as  a  Rich,  Brilliant  Color,  and  being  a  liquid,  dissolves 
instantly.  We  guarantee  its  sate  keeping  in  anv  climate,  and  ab- 
solute wholesomeness.  Approved  by  tne  Liebig  Extract  of 
Meat  Company. 


-^:^-^H=^' 


New  York,  September  4th,  1876. 
J.  L.  TOURNADE,  Esq., 

Dear  Sir, — Your  Kitchen  Bouquet  is  an  excellent  thing,  which  I 
will  use,  and  also  take  pleasure  in  recommending. 

Very  truly  yours, 

C.   B.  WAITE, 
Proprietor  Brevoort  House  and  Windsor  Hotel. 


It  affords  me  pleasure  to  inform  you  that  I  have  used  your  Kitchen 
Bouquet,  and  found  it  of  a  superior  quality.  According  to  my  judgment, 
it  will  become  a  necessity  in  all  good  cooking. 

E.  LAPERRUQUE. 

Chief  Cook  at  Delmonico's. 


Having  used  your  Kitchen  Bouquet,  I  desire  to  say  that  its  qualities 
have  a  great  superiority  over  any  article  ever  offered  for  the  same  object. 
I  will  recommend  its  use  alway«  "nd  on  every  occasion. 

SEE.  MICHEL, 

Chief,  Hotel  Brunswick. 


We  take  pleasure  in  stating  that  your  Kitchen  Bouquet  is  a  most 
excellent  article,  and  the  superiority  of  its  qualities  in  flavoring  and  in 
giving  a  good  and  brilliant  color  ought  to  render  it  of  great  utility  in  all 
good  cooking,  not  only  in  hotels  and  restaurants,  but  also  on  steamers  and 
in  private  families,  where,  in  our  opinion,  it  will  be  of  great  service.  We 
highly  recommend  it : 

LOUIS  EAGOT Chief,  Delmonico. 

HENRY  HUGUE3 "  Albemarle  Hotel. 

OHAS.  FISOHES "  St.  Nicholas  Hotel. 

EDOUARSMEHL "  Gilsey  House. 

AUG.  VALADON "  St.  James  Hotel. 

TELIXDELIEE "  Manhattan  Club. 

J.  LUDIN  "  New  York  Hotel. 

C.  r.  OAGLIERESI "  Metropolitan  Hotel. 

GUSTAVE  EEROUD "  Eifth  Avenue  Hotel. 

LEON  CHEROT «  Westminster  Hotel. 

J.  B.  PEYROUX   «  Everett  House. 

GUSTAVE  N  OUVEL «  HofBnan  House. 

Opinion    of    Leading    Orocers. 

Neav  York,  Februarv  21st,  1882. 
Having-  sold  and  used  different  Flavorings  and  "French  Pas- 
tilles, for  Flavoring  and  Coloring  Soups,  etc.,  we  hereby  recom- 
mend Tournade's  Kitchen  Bouquet  as  being  decided- 
ly superior  to  all  others.  • 

E.  C.  Hazard  &  Co.,  Jas.  P.  Smith,  Bogle  &  Lyles, 

Austin.  Nichols  &  Co.,         Francis  H.  Leggett  &  Co., 

Park  &  Tilford,    Acker,  Merrall  &  Condit. 


FISH. 

Purchase  those  which  have  just  bf  en  caught ;  of  this  you 
can  judge  by  their  being  hard  under  the  pressure  of  the  fin- 
ger. Cod  is  best  in  cold  weather.  Mackerel  is  best  in  Aug- 
ust, September  and  October.  Halibut  in  May  and  June. 
Oysters  are  good  from  September  to  April.  Lobsters  are 
best  at  the  season  when  oysters  are  not  good.  Fish  that  is 
to  be  fried  should  be  cut  uj)  and  laid  in  a  cloth  for  an  hour  in 
order  that  the  moisture  nay  be  absorbed,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  then  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs  or  corn  meal,  and  fry 
in  one-third  butter  and  two-lhirds  lard.  That  which  is  apt 
to  break  in  frying  may  be  kept  whole  by  being  dipped  in  a 
beaten  egg  before  it  is  rolled  in  crumbs. 

TO  BOIL  SALT  COD. 

Let  it  stand  over  night  in  cold  water.  Put  in  a  kettk, 
let  it  set  where  it  will  keep  warm  and  at  length  simmer  but 
not  boil. 

TO  BOIL  HALIBUT. 

Purchase  a  thick  slice,  cut  through  the  body  or  tail-piece 
which  is  considered  the  richest,  wrap  it  in  a  flannel  cloth  and 
lay  in  cold  water  with  salt  in  it.  A  piece  weighing  six  pounds 
should  cook  half  an  hour  after  the  water  boils. 

TO  BOIJ.  SALMON. 

Clean  a  salmon  in  salt  and  water,  allow  twenty  minutes 
for  boiling  every  pound  ;  wrap  in  a  floured  cloth  and  lay  in  a 
kettle  while  the  water  is  cold,  make  the  water  very  salt,  and 
skim  it  well.  In  this  respect  it  requires  more  care  than  any 
other  fish. 

TO  BOIL  FRESH  COD. 

Rub  the  fish  with  salt,  wrap  it  in  a  cloth,  and  put  it  over 
the  fire  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover  the  fish,  adding  one 
tablespoonf ul  of  salt ;  take  ofi"  the  froth  and  boil  half  an  hour. 

Cracker  Crumbs  Always  in  Stock. 


18 
TO  BAKE  FISH. 

Make  a  dressing  of  chopped  bread,  pepper,  salt,  butter, 
and  pulverized  sage,  moisten  it  with  a  little  water;  lay  this 
inside  the  fish,  sew  ib  up,  put  a  skewer  through  the  lip  and 
tail,  fasten  them  together  with  a  piece  of  twine,  lay  it  iu  a 
dish,  put  two  or  three  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  upon  it,  sprin- 
kle salt  over  it  and  flour  well.  Baste  with  the  liquid  which 
cooks  out  of  it.  A  fish  weighing  four  pounds  will  cook  in  an 
hour. 

TO  BROIL  SALMON. 

Cut  in  slices  an  inch  thick,  dry  it  in  a  cloth,  salt  it,  lay 
upon  a  hot  gridiron,  the  bars  having  been  rubbed  with  lard 
or  drippings.  It  cooks  very  well  iu  a  stove  oven,  laid  in  a 
dripping  pan. 

TO  FRY  OYSTERS. 

Lay  them  in  a  cloth  a  few  minutes  to  dry,  then  dip  each 
one  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  sifted  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
just  enough  fat  to  brown  them.  Put  pepper  and  salt  on  them 
before  you  turn  them  over. 

FRICASSEE  OF  OYSTERS. 

Put  one  quart  of  oysters  on  the  fire,  in  their  liquor.  The 
moment  they  begin  to  boil  turn  them  into  a  hot  dish,  through 
a  colander,  leaving  the  oysters  in  the  colander.  Put  in  the 
saucepan  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  when  it  bubbles  up, 
sprinkle  in  a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour ;  let  it  cook  a  min- 
ute without  taking  color,  stirring  it  well  with  a  wire  egg 
whisk,  then  add  one  cup  of  oyster  liquor.  Take  it  from  the 
fire  and  mix  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  one 
grated  nutmeg ;  beat  it  well ;  then  return  to  the  fire  to  set 
the  eggs  without  allowing  it  to  boil.      Put  in  the  oysters. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Crush  or  roll  sevei'al  handfuls  of  oyster  crackers,  put  a 
Ixyer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  wet  this  with 
milk  slightly  warm ;  next  a  layer  of  oysters  sprinkled  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  buttex",  then  another  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs,  moistened  with  milk,  and  so  on  until   your    dish   is 

Try  Those  Nice  Mackerel 


14 

filled.     Let  the  top  be  of  crumbs.     Put  bits  of  butter  over  it 
and  bake  an  hour  ;  ornament  with  split  crackers. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 
Line  patty.pans  with  a  rich  paste,  put  a  piece  of  bread  in 
each  to  keep  them  in  shape,  bake,  and,  when  cool,  turn  them 
out  upon  a  dish.  Stew  a  pint  of  oysters  one  or  two  minutes 
in  their  own  liquor.  Turn  on  the  liquor ;  put  two  or  three 
oysters  in  each  puff  and  cover  with  hot  asparagus  dressing. 
Serve  immediately. 

CLAMS  IN  CEEAM. 
Put  butter  size  of  an  egg  into  a  spider  with  a  tablespoon 
of  flour.  Stir  and  cook  slowly  but  not  to  brown.  Add  one- 
half  cup  of  clam  water.  When  this  comes  to  a  boil  add  one 
pint  of  chopped  clams.  Just  before  serving  add  one  cup  of 
cream,  being  careful  that  it  does  not  come  to  a  boil  after  the 
cream  is  put  in.     Pepper  to  taste. 

SALT  FISH  BALLS  No.  1. 
One  cup  of  raw  salt  fish,  three  cups  of  boiled  potatoes, 
one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  sweet 
milk,  one  Bgg^  a  little  pepper.  Wash  the  fish  and  pick  from 
the  bones;  put  in  cold  water  and  .^et  it  stand  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  until  fresh  enough.  Mash  or  beat  the  fish  and 
potatoes  until  light,  make  in  little  balls,  roll  in  flour  and  fry 
in  plenty  of  hot  fat. 

FISH  BALLS  No.  2. 
Boil  the  potatoes,  and  while  still  hot  peel  and  mash 
them.  Then  to  each  four  cupfuls  of  potatoes  add  two  cup- 
f  uls  of  fish  previously  chopped  fine,  one  egg,  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Work  thoroughly  with  the  hands,  adding 
at  the  same  time  milk  enough  to  mold  well,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.  Roll  into  bnlls  and  fry 
brown  on  both  sides.     Serve  hot. 

SCALLOPED  CLAMS. 

Put  stale  bread  in  oven  to  dry,  roil  fine,  then  put   in    a 

dish  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  clams,   cut   in   small 

pieces,  season  with  butter  and  pepper,  so  on  until  the  dish  is 

full.     Pour  the  clam  water  over  it  and  bake  one  hour.    Rolled 

Genuine   Codfish    Constantly    on    Hand- 


15 

crackers  may  be  used  in  place  of  bread  and  also  milk  with  the 
clam  water. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 
One  pint  of  flour,  one-half  pint  of  milk,   two   eggs,    one 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  large  spoon  of  melted  butter,  one  quart 
of  chopped  clams. 

BAKED  LOBSTER  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Take  two  small  lobsters,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one  small 
onion  chopped  fine,  butter  size  of  a  large  egg,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  cooked  all  together ;  remove  from  the  fire 
and  stir  in  one  well  beaten  egg ;  add  a  very  little  cayenne 
pepper,  and  salt  if  necessary.  The  green  of  the  lobster  must 
be  added  to  the  dressing  when  cold.  Put  the  chopped  lob- 
ster into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served  or  into  the 
shells;  pour  over  the  dressing  t lowly  until  all  is  thoroughly 
moistened  ;  then  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  the  top.  Bake 
fifteen  minutes.  Serve  (if  in  the  shells)  on  a  napkin  gar- 
nished with  parsley. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES. 

One  slice  of  bread,  buttered  and  halved,  remove  the 
crust.  Split  a  sardine  and  remove  the  bone.  Put  on  one- 
half  a  slice,  sprinkle  a  little  lemon  juice  over  it  and  cover 
with  the  other  half. 

TURBOT  A  LA  CREME. 

Boil  three  or  four  pounds  of  haddock ;  take  out  all  the 
bones  and  shred  the  fish  fine.  Let  a  quart  of  milk  and  a 
small  onion  come  to  a  boil ;  stir  in  a  scant  cupful  of  flour 
which  has  been  mixed  with  a  cup  of  cold  milk  and  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  white  pepper, 
one  teaspoon  salt,  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Butter  a  pan,  put 
in  a  layer  of  fish,  then  one  of  sauce ;  finish  with  the  sauce 
and  over  it  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  an  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

LOBSTER  FARCE. 

One  cup  of  cream ;  put  over  a  double  boilei*.  Put  two 
large  spoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  sauce-pan,  when  melted  add 
dessert  spoon  of  flour,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  mace  and  salt ; 

Genuine  French  Sardines  always  in  Stock 


16 
stir  into  hot  cream  and  let  it  boil  up.      This   is   enough  for 
three  pounds  of  lobster  picked  to  pieces.      Fill  lobster  shells 
(the  back  of   the   lobsters)    with    the    mixture,    cover    with 
crumbs,  butter  and  brown.     Serve  hot. 

SALMON. 

One  can  of  salmon,  three  eggs,  four  tablespoons  of  melt- 
ed butter,  one-half  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  one-third  of  a 
cup  of  milk;  pepper  and  salt.  Pick  up  the  fish,  drain  o£f  the 
oil,  melt  butter,  work  in  the  bread  cruirbs  and  seasoning,  and 
last  of  all  the  eggs.  Put  in  a  buttered  dish  and  steam  for 
one  hour. 

SALMON  IN  SHELLS. 

Two  pounds  of  salmon,  boiled  tender,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  of  flour  dredged 
dry  on  the  salmon.  Heat  milk  and  batter,  mince  all  togeth- 
er, fill  in  shells,  set  in  cold  water  and  leave  in  oven  long- 
enough  to  brown ;  a  quick  oven  is  best ;  a  little  cracker  dust 
over  each  shell  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  before  putting  in 
oven. 

PICKED  UP  FISH. 

One  cup  of  salt  fish,  shredded  or  cut  across  the  grain ; 
soak  in  warm  water  and  cook  until  it  is  tender  and  fresh 
enough  to  use.  Add  a  large  sj^oon  of  butter,  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  then  add  a  cup  of  hot  cream  thickened  with  a  little 
corn  starch. 


TABLE      DELICACIES 

Olives,  Olive  Oil,  Dressings,  Sauces,  Pickles, 
Preserves,  Jellies,  Mustards,  Relishes,  Catsups, 
French  Vinegars,  Capers,  Sardines,  and  in  fact  a 
full  line  always  on  hand  at 

W.  H.  Mansfield  &  Co.'s 


SAUCES 

FOR  MEAT,  FISH  AND  POULTRY. 

OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
brown  tha  butter  and  flour  in  a  dipper;  add  water  to  make  it 
thin  as  gravy,  boil ;  add  one  pint  of  oysters,  whole  pepper 
and  salt.     Serve  with  turkey. 

CHICKEN  SAUCE. 

Put  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  sauce  pan,  when  it 
bubbles  add  a  tablesj)Oonf ul  of  flour ;  cook,  add  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  when  smooth  take  from  the  lire,  add  the  beat 
en  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  FOR  CHOPS  AND  CROQUETTS. 
One  can  of  Old  Reliable  tomatoes,  half  of  an  onion,  six 
or  ei-^lil  cloves.  Boil  half  an  hour,  then  take  two  tablespoon- 
fuls o.  butter  and  two  of  flour.  Put  on  the  fire  and  siir  un- 
til blown,  then  mix  with  other  ingredients  and  let  all  boil  up 
once.     Strain  through  a  sieve. 

BREAD  SAUCE  FOR  GAME. 
Two  cupfuls  of  milk,  one  of  dried  bread  crumbs,  a  quar- 
ter of  aii  onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper.  Dry  the  bread  in  a  warm  oven,  and  roll  into  rather 
ccaise  crumbs.  Sift,  and  put  the  fine  crumbs  which  come 
till  ougli  .-ind  which  make  about  one-third  of  a  cupful  on  to 
boil  with  the  milk  and  onion.  Boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
and  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  the  seasoning.  Skim 
out  the  onion.  Fry  the  coarse  crumbs  a  light  brown  in  the 
remaining  butter,  which  must  be  very  hot  before  they  are 
put  iu.  Stir  over  a  hot  oven  two  minutes,  being  watchful 
not    to   burn.     Cover   the   breast   of  the  x'oasted  birds  with 

Use  Mansfield's  Pure  Spices. 


18 
these  and  serve  the   sauce    poured    around   the  birds  or  in  a 
gravy  dish. 

DEAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE. 
Three  ounces  of  butter,  one  ounce  of  flour,  half  a  pint  of 
water,  little  salt  and  pepper.  Put  two  ounces  of  the  butter 
in  a  pan ;  when  it  bubbles,  add  flour ;  stir  it  well  with  a  wire 
egg-  whisk,  do  not  let  it  color  ;  then  add  the  water.  Put  it 
through  a  sieve  and  add  the  other  ounce  of  butter  cut  in 
pieces.  Add  three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped.  Serve  with 
meat  or  fish. 

MINT  SAUCE. 
Mix  one    tablespoonful  of  white    sugar  to  one-half  a  cup 
of  vinegar  ;  add  mint  chopped  fine  and  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
salt.     Serve  with  roast  lamb  or  mutton. 

CREAM  SAUCE  NO.  1. 
One  pint  of  hot  cream,  or  milk,  two  even  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper, 
aue-half  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Scald  the  cream,  melt  the  butter  in  a  granite  sauce 
pan.  when  bubbling  add  the  dry  corn  starch,  stir  until  well 
mixed,  add  one  third  the  cream  and  stir  as  it  boils  and  thick- 
ens ;  add  more  cream  and  boil  again ;  when  smooth  add  the 
remainder  of  the  cream  and  seasoning. 

Mix  with  the  chicken  in  making  croquettes. 
CREAM  SAUCE  TO  BE  SERVED  WITH  CROQUETTES. 
One  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of 
butter,  two  heaping  tablespoons  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt 
one-half  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Make  same  as  cream  sauce 
No.  1. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 
One  can  of  mushrooms,  two  cups  of  soup  stock,  two 
tablespoons  of  flour,  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  Melt  the  butter ;  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  a  dark 
brown ;  add  the  stock  gradually.  When  it  boils  add  the  liq- 
uor from  the  mushrooms ;  season  and  simmer  twenty  minutes. 
Skim  oif  the  fat  that  rises;  add  the  mushrooms  and  simmer 
five  minutes.     Serve  with  beef  steak. 

Butter,  Cheese  and  Eggs  a  Specialty 


POULTRY. 


If  care  is  taken  in  j^icking  and  dressing  fowls  and  birds, 
there  is  no  need  of  washing  them. 

EOAST  TURKEY. 
First  dress  it.  Season  well.  Sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  on 
the  inside.  Stuff  it  and  tie  well  in  shaj)e.  Wet  the  skin  in 
water  and  sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt  and  flour.  Pour  a  little 
boiling  water  in  the  j)an.  Baste  it  often  and  cook  three  or 
four  hours  according  to  size. 

ROAST  TURKEY,  GIBLET  SAUCE. 

Select  a  large,  tender,  dry-picked  turkey-hen,  singe, 
draw  and  truss  nicely ;  cover  the  breast  with  a  slice  of  fat 
salt  pork  and  roast  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter ;  untie,  dish 
up,  pour  the  drippings  over  and  serve  with  the  following- 
sauce  : 

Boil  until  done,  in  a  pint  of  broth,  the  heart  and  gizzard 
of  the  turkey,  boil  the  liver  in  fat  for  five  minutes ;  drain  and 
slice  the  whole;  slightly  thicken  the  broth  with  a  little  flour 
and  butter.  Boil  ten  minutes,  skim,  add  the  sliced  giblet, 
season  to  taste,  with  the  addition  of  1-2  teaspoonful  of 
Tournade's  Kitchen  Bouquet  and  send  in  a  sauce  bowl 
along  with  the  roast  turkey. 

BOILED  TURKEY. 

Cut  the  legs  at  the  first  joint  and  draw  them  into  the 
body.  Fasten  the  small  ends  of  the  wings  under  the  back 
and  tie  with  twine.  Sprinkle  over  it  salt,  pepper  and  lemon 
juice,  put  in  boiling  water  and  boil  two  hours.  Serve  in  a 
bed  of  rice  with  oyster  or  caper  sauce.  Pour  some  of  the 
sauce  over  the  turkey. 

BONED  TURKEY. 

Boil  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  until  the  bones  can  be 

Use  Mansfield's  Pure  Herbs 


20 
separated  from  the  meat.  Remove  the  skin,  slice  and  mix 
the  Hgbt  and  dark  parts,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil 
down  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled  and  pour  on  tha  meat. 
ShajDe  like  a  loaf  of  bread,  wrap  in  a  tight  cloth  and  press 
with  a  heavy  weight  for  a  few  hours.  When  served  cut  in 
thin  slices. 

ROAST  GOOSE. 

The  goose  should  be  young.  Green  geese  are  best  when 
four  months  old.  Skewer  the  legs  and  wings  securely,  stuif 
H  and  sprinkle  the  top  with  salt,  pepper  and  floury  keep  the 
giblets  to  boil  and  chop  for  gravy  as  you  would  turkey. 
Baste  often.  If  it  is  green,  roast  an  hour  and  a  half,  if  old, 
bake  in  a  pan  with  plenty  of  hot  water  ;  bake  three  or  four 
hours.     Serve  with  apple  sauce. 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Prepare  the  same  as  a  goose.  If  they  are  ducklings 
roast  thirty  minutes.  Full  grown  ducks  should  b3roa5ijd 
an  hour  and  basted  often.  Serve  with  them  giblet  gravy  or 
apple  sauce. 

Wild  ducks  should  be  cooked  rare,  with  or  without  stuff- 
ing.    Baste  them   first  with  hot  water,  to  which  add  an  onion 
and  salt,  then   baste    with    butter    and  a  little    flour.     C)ok 
from   twenty  to  thirty  minutes.     Serve  with  currant  jelly. 
DUCKS  A  LA  FRANCAISE 

Put  two  dozen  chestnuts  roasted  and  peeled  into  a  pint 
of  good  gravy,  with  a  sprig  of  thyme,  two  small  onions,  a  few 
whole  peppers,  and  a  bit  of  ginger.  Take  a  duck,  lard  the 
chest  with  shreds  of  bacoQ,  and  half  roast  it,  then  put  it  into 
the  gravy,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  por*-  wine,  and  let  it 
stew  about  twenty  minutes.  When  the  duck  is  sufficiently 
done,  take  it  out,  boil  up  the  gravy  to  a  proper  thickness, 
skim  it  clear  of  any  fat  add  1-2  teaspoonfnl  of  Tournade's 
Kitchen  Bouquet,  lay  the  duck  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it. 

BAKED  SPRING  CHICKENS. 

Cut  them  open  at  the  ba^k ;  spread  out  in  a  pan  and 
sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt,  flour  and  soma  water.     Baste  often, 

Use  Tournade's  Kitchen  Bouquet 


21 

and  once  or  twice  with  butter.     Wlien  done,  rub  butter  over 
them  and  set  in  the  oven  a  little  while  before  serving. 
CHICKEN  FRICASSEE. 

Boil  fortv  minutes  in  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Put 
part  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled  in  a  stewpan. 
For  two  chickens  rub  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  flour  together,  and  stir  into  the  water.  When  it  boils, 
add  salt  and  one  gill  of  milk.  Lay  in  the  chickens;  cover 
the  pan  and  stew  twenty  minutes. 

CHICKEN  TOAST. 

Cut  from  the  bones  whatever  meat  can  be  readily  re- 
moved, and  chop  it  almost  as  fine  as  mince  meat.  Simmer 
the  bones  and  trimmings  (all  skin  and  gristle  must  be  re- 
jected from  the  juice)  for  at  least  an  hour,  and  strain  off  the 
resulting  broth.  To  a  cupful  of  this  stock  add  a  cupful  of 
milk  or  sweet  cream,  two  well  beaten  eggs  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Use  a  little  of  it  to  moisten  the  minced  chicken  and 
set  that  on  in  a  small  saucepan  to  heat.  Cut  half  a  dozen 
thick  slices  from  a  loaf  of  bread,  place  them  in  a  deep  basin 
and  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  "When  they  have  absorbed  as 
much  as  they  will  take  up,  fry  quickly  in  a  little  fresh  bntter. 
Spread  each  slice  thinly  with  the  chicken.  Good  either  hot 
or  cold. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN 
is   paiticularly   nice   when   the   fowl   is   young  and  tender. 
Split  the  chicken  down  the  back,  cover  it  over  with  lumps  of 
butter  and  pepper  and  salt ;  add  one-half  of  a  pint  of  water ; 
cover  closely  and  cook  in  the  oven  till  done. 
PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  two  chickens  in  water  enough  to  cover  them  until 
Ihe  meat  will  drop  from  the  bones.  Then  pick  from  the 
bones  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  first  a  layer  of 
dark  and  then  a  layer  of  white  meat.  Boil  the  water  away  to 
about  half  of  a  teacupful,  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  Put 
away  to  press,  and  let  it  stand  over  night  before  serving. 
FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Take  two  chickens  and  cut  in  pieces.      Sprinkle  pepper 

Headquarters  for  Fine  Vermont  Butter 


22 

and  salt  and  let  them  stand  one  hour.  Bub  with  flour  before 
frying.  Beat  two  eggs ;  dip  each  piece  in  this  and  fry  in  hot 
lard.  Boil  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk;  add  a  spoonful  of 
butter  rubbed  in  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  a  little  salt.  Stir 
until  it  boils  again.  Lay  chicken  in  a  dish  ;  pour  the  sauce 
around  it  and  serve. 

CHICKEN  POT  PIE. 

Cut  the  chicken,  put  into  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
tender.  Chop  the  giblets  and  put  into  the  broth.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  To  each  quart  stir  in  two  spoonfuls 
of  flour  mixed  with  cream.  Break  open,  butter  and  throw  in 
warm  light  biscuits.  Cover  tightly  and  simmer  twenty 
minutes. 

CHICKEN   POT  PIE. 

Joint  the  chicken  and  parboil  it.  Make  a  crust  the  same 
as  for  soda  biscuit,  line  the  sides  of  the  pot  (not  the  bottom) 
with  this ;  with  the  chicken  lay  in  thin  sliced  potatoes,  sprin- 
kle in  a  little  pepper,  add  salt  and  a  bit  of  mace.  If  there 
was  not  broth  enough  left  after  parboiling  the  chicken,  add 
water  sufficient  to  cover  the  chicken  when  put  in  the  pot ; 
over  the  whole  lay  a  piece  of  crust  about  the  thickness  of 
soda  biscuit.  Fold  a  towel  and  put  over  the  pot,  and  put  on 
the  cover.  The  towel  will  hold  the  steam  which  rises,  and 
prevent  its  falling  back  upon  the  crust  to  make  it  heavy. 
Before  putting  in  the  broth  it  should  be  thickened  a  little, 
and  a  little  butter  added. 

DEtSSING  FOR  MEAT  AIvD  POULTRY. 

Stuffing  foe  Tukeey,  Ceiceen,  Yeal,  and  Lamb. — ^■5oak 
one-half  pound  of  bread,  with  the  crust  off,  in  tepid  water, 
squeeze  it  dry ;  put  three  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stewpan, 
when  hot  add  one  small  onion  minced,  color  slightly,  then 
add  the  bread  with  three  tablespoonfuis  of  parslej^  chopj)ed 
fine,  one-half  teacupful  powdered  thyme,  pepper  and  salt. 

Stuffing  for  Roast  Turkey.  Chicken,  Duck  and  Goose. — 
Two  onions,  five  ounces  soaked  and  squeezed  bread,  eight 
sage  ienves,  one  ounce  butter,  pepper,  salt,  one  egg.  Mince 
the  onions  and  fry  in  the  pan  before  adding  the  other  ingre- 
dients. 

Potied  iVleats  and  Pouitry  always  in  stock 


FRY'S  English 


Chocolate  and  Cocoa. 

P  U  R  fi  , 


CO 


C3 


CO 


Crosse  &  Blackwell's 

Loudon  Fresh  Fruit  Preserves,  Jams,  Orange  Marmalade, 
Chow-chow,  Mixed  and  other  Pickles  in  pure  Malt  Vinegar, 
Currie  Powder,  China  Soy,  Parinasan  Cheese,  Anchovy  Paste. 


i:^' 


|S.RAE&CO.| 

:  LEGHORN. 


g.  Jlae 


PURE  OLIVE   OIL, 

For   Salads, 

Is  prepared   from  the    most   perfectly   ripened 
and  selected  Olives  of  Tuscany. 


The  above  Choice  Table  Articles  Sold  by 
W.  H.  ManslleUl  &  Co. 


T  ar b  o  X ' s 


uu^  ^■ 


UlL 


m 


Black  your  Stove  TAvice  a  Year, 
the  Top  Once  a  Week,  and  always 
have  a  nice  looking  stove. 

A  light  brushing  will  renew  the 
polish  whenever  it  looks  dull.  It 
will  pay  you  to  give  it  a  trial. 


-MANUFACTURED  BT- 


The  Tarbox  Manufg.   Company, 

NET^^    LONDONT,    CONIsT. 


-FOR    SALE    BY- 


W,  H,  MANSFIELD  &  CO. 

Putnam,  Conn. 


<l 


MEATS. 


COKNED  BEEF 

sbould  bs  put  into  hot  water  to  boil.  When  boiling  ham  or 
coined  beef  put  in  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar  to  give  a 
good  color. 

Spring  is  the  best  season  for  mutton  ;  that  which  is  not 
very  large  is  to  be  preferred.  It  should  be  of  a  good  red  and 
white,  and  fine  grain. 

LA.MB 
is  best  in  July  and  Augu&t.    Veal  is  best  in  spring.    It  should 
look  white  and  be  fat.     The  breast  is  particularly  nice  stuffed. 
The  loin  should  be  roasted. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Porter  House  and  tenderloin  are  best.  Grease  the  grid- 
iron. Have  it  hot.  Put  your  steak  over  a  hot  fire,  cover 
with  a  baking  pan,  turn  as  soon  as  colored,  watch  constantly 
and  turn  again  as  soon  as  browned.  It  should  be  quite  rare 
or  pink  in  the  center.  Put  on  a  hot  platter,  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt,  spread  butter  over  it  and  serve  immediately. 
There  should  be  no  gravy.  Lemon  juice  and  chopped  parsley 
added  before  the  butter  improves  it. 

HINTS  ABOUT  BOILING  MEATS. 

All  kinds  of  meat  intended  for  the  table  should  be  put 
into  boiling  water,  thereby  retaining  the  juices.  If  it  is  de- 
sired to  give  a  salt  flavoring  to  them,  boil  a  piece  of  salt  pork 
in  the  water  before  putting  the  meat  in.  A  nice  piece  of 
boiled  salt  pork  is  a  great  addition  to  all  kinds  of  boiled 
meats.  Corned,  salt  or  smoked  meats  should  be  put  into 
cold  water  to  cook.  Great  care  should  be  taken  to  skim  the 
scum  off  well  just  before  the  water  boils  ;  for  if  the  scum 
boils  into  the  water,  it  is  impossible  to  take  it  off,  aad  it  will 
adhere  to  the  meats. 

Capers,  Olives,  Olive  Oil,  Tab!e  Sauces 


26 
TO  MAKE  THE  IRISH  STEW. 

One  of  the  most  inexpensive,  palatable  and  wholesome 
dishes  is  the  Irish  stew.  About  ''.wo  pounds  of  the  neck  of 
mutton,  four  onions,  six  large  potatoes,  salt,  pepper,  three 
pints  of  water  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Cut  the  mut- 
ton in  handsome  pieces.  Put  about  half  the  fat  in  the  stew- 
l^an,  with  the  onions,  and  stir  for  eight  or  ten  minutes  over  a 
hot  fire ;  then  put  in  the  meat,  which  sprinkle  with  the  flour, 
salt  and  pepper.  Stir  ten  minutes,  and  add  the  water,  boil- 
ing. Set  for  one  hour  where  it  will  simmer ;  then  add  the 
potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in  quarters.  Simmer  an  hour  long- 
er and  serve.  You  can  cook  dumplings  with  this  dish,  if  you 
choose.  They  are  a  great  addition  to  all  kinds  of  stews  and 
ragouts. 

BAKED  HAM. 

Take  a  medium- sized  ham  and  soak  twenty-four  hours  in 
cold  water ;  wipe  and  scrape  clean ;  make  rather  a  stiff  paste 
of  rye  meal  and  water,  cover  the  ham  entirely  with  the  paste 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  six  hours.  This  is  much  nicer 
than  boiled  ham. 

ROAST  PORK. 

Stuff  the  spare-rib  with  sage  dressing,  allow  twenty  min- 
utes for  each  pound,  baste  it  with  butter  first :  after  that  with 
its  own  drippings.     Aj^ple  sauce  is  served  with  it. 

BOILED  HAM. 

Put  the  ham  into  a  pot  of  cold  water ;  let  it  simmer 
slowly  eight  hours;  leave  in  the  water  until  cold;  then  peel 
off  the  skin. 

HAM  AND  EGGS. 

Ham  should  be  fried  in  its  own  fat,  well  done.  Take  out 
of  the  spider,  add  lard,  break  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  in  a 
cup,  put  them  in  the  fat  and  baste. 

VEAL  CHOPS. 

Roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  pork  fat ; 
fringed  white  paper  around  the  ribs  adds  very  much  to  their 
looks. 

Use  Mansfield's  Pure  Herbs  and   Spices 


27 
MUTTON. 

The  best  roasts  are  the  leg,  the  saddle,  aud  the  shoulder 
of  mutton.  To  boil  it,  put  into  salted,  boiling  water  and  do 
not  let  it  stop  boiling  until  done.  Boil  one-quarter  of  an 
hour  for  each  pound.     Caper  sauce  should  be  served  with  it. 

LAMB. 

The  best  roasts  are  the  fore  and  hind  quarters.  Roast 
lamb  should  be  well  done  on  the  outside  and  pink  within ;  it 
must  be  served  hot,  with  caper  or  mint  sauce.  A  fore-quarter 
of  lamb  should  be  stuffed  with  a  veal  stuffing.  It  should  be 
well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  basted  often. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

To  be  properly  roasted  the  meat  should  be  placed  on  an 
iron  rack  in  the  pan,  dusted  over  with  flour  and  salt,  then 
placed  in  a  quick  oven  to  brown  the  outside  and  retain  the 
juices.  After  it  has  been  well  browned  add  a  quart  of  water 
beneath  the  meat,  place  an  onion  in  the  water  and  let  the 
meat  cook  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Just  before  taking 
the  meat  from  the  oven,  make  a  paste  cf  flour  and  water, 
mixing  ca  ef ully  to  avoid  lumps.  Take  the  meat  from  the 
pan,  remove  the  onion,  and  set  the  pan  upon  the  stove. 
While  the  water  is  boiling  add  the  paste  gradually,  stirring 
constantly  until  the  gravy  is  of  the  right  consistency.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 

BOILED  HAM. 

Scrape  the  ham  and  wash  it  clean.  Place  it  in  hot  water 
and  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  onion,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  pepper.  Boil  all  day.  When  done  the  meat  will  draw 
away  from  the  bone.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  the  rind 
and  part  of  the  fat,  and  place  the  ham  in  a  baking  pan. 
Pound  together  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  sprinkle  over  the 
ham.     Stick  in  whole  cloves  and  brown  well  in  the  oven. 

DRESSING  FOR  HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  one  of  Rae's  olive  oil,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  sugar,  mustard  to  taste. 

Pitted  Olives,  quite  a  novelty,  and  very  nice 


28 
ROAST  BEE1<. 

Wij)c  the  meat  with  a  wet  towel  and  dredge  on  all  sides 
with  flour.  Have  a  rack  that  will  fit  loosely  in  the  baking- 
pan.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  lightly  with  flour;  put  in 
rack  and  then  meat.  Place  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  a  few  min- 
utes to  brown  the  flour ;  add  hot  water  enough  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  In  ten  minutes  baste  with  the  gravy, 
dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Do  this  every  fifteen 
minutes.     Brown  one  side,  then  turn  and  brown  the  other. 

YOEKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

Six  eggs,  six  tablespoons  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk.  Beat 
to  a  smooth  batter  and  bake  in  dripping-pau  under  roast 
beef,  half  an  hour  before  the  beef  is  done.  Serve  with  the 
meat. 

SCALLOPED  EOAST  BPIEF. 

Cut  roast  beef  in  small  pieces  and  put  one  layer  in  bot- 
tom of  pudding  dish,  add  one  layer  of  chopjoed  onion,  bread 
broken  in  small  pieces,  and  gravy.  So  on  until  the  dish  is 
full,  the  last  layer  of  onion  and  bread  crumbs.     Serve  hot. 

POT  PIE  OF  VEAL  OE  BEEF. 

One-quarter  pound  of  pork  fried  out  in  a  sauce-pan ; 
take  out  the  scraps,  add  meat  and  brown  it,  add  raw  potatoes 
sliced,  pepper  and  salt ;  cover  this  with  water ;  let  it  cook 
one  hour ;  add  a  rich  paste  crust. 

TO  BAKE  VEAL. 

Fill  it  with  stuffing  made  of  two  cupfuls  of  bread  crumbs, 
one-half  cupful  of  chopped  pork,  one-half  lemon  peel  grated, 
a  little  juice,  also  summer  savory.  Bind  the  veal  into  a  round 
form,  fasten  it  with  t^kewers,  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  over  it 
and  cover  with  buttered  paper.  Baste  well  and  often.  Just 
before  it  is  done  sprinkle  with  flour  and  rub  butter  on  it. 
Bake  three  hours. 

STEWED  KIDNEYS. 

(Jut  them  in  thin  round  slices.  Cover  with  cold  water : 
let  them  stand  twenty  minutes ;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with 
one  quart  of  water  or  stock,  a  clove,  one  tablespoonful  of  on- 

Always  Use  the  Celebrated  Victor   Flour 


29 

ion  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  two  hours.  Put  one  ta- 
blespoonful  of  butter  in  a  pan,  add  one  of  flour.  Stir  until 
brown  and  smooth ;  add  the  kidneys. 

A  NICE  WAY    TO    USE    UP    REMNANTS    OF    MEAT. 

Having  freed  the  meat  from  all  bone  and  fat,  chop  very 
fine.  Place  in  a  sauce-pan  and  add  a  piece  of  butter,  water 
enough  to  make  the  mass  soft,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
-pe\  While  this  is  slowly  heating,  toast  several  slices  of 
bread,  placa  them  over  the  surface  of  a  heated  platter.  Mois- 
ten each  slice  of  bread  with  a  little  hot  water  and  spread  up- 
on them  the  minced  meat.  Serve  hot.  This  makes  a  good 
breakfast  dish. 

FINGER  SANDWICHES. 

One  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  little  flour,  a  little  salt,  boil 
ing  milk  enough  to  thicken,  cook  a  little.  Put  by  until  thor- 
oughly cold,  then  add  chopped  chicken,  lobster  or  ham.  Cut 
bread  diamond  shape  and  fill  with  the  mixture. 

MEAT  PIE. 

One  pound  of  cold  baked  lamb,  beef  or  veal,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  four  raw  potatoes  sliced  thin ;  first  a  layer  of  meat, 
then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  pepper,  salt  and  butter :  fill  a  pud- 
ding dish  in  this  way ;  at  the  top  add  cold  gravy  if  you  have 
it :  also  one  beaten  egg,  and  one-half  pint  of  warm  water; 
cover  this  with  pie  crust  and  bake  one  hour. 

SECOND  DAY  OF  ROAST  BEEF. 

Cut  the  beef  into  slices,  removing  most  of  the  fat.  Rub 
each  slice  in  flour,  place  in  layers  in  a  covered  earthern  dish 
alternating  with  layers  of  fresh  or  can  of  Old  Reliable  toma- 
toes, sprinkling  each  layer  with  pepper,  salt,  summer  savory, 
and  sweet  marjoram — curry  powder  if  you  like  it.  Turn  cold 
gravy  over  the  top  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat. 
Add  two  or  three  whole  cloves.  Bake  three  or  four  hours, 
adding  flour  if  the  gravy  is  not  thick  enough.  About  twenty 
minutes  before  serving  remove  the  cover  and  brown. 

BEEF    LOAF  No.  1. 
Three  pounds  of  raw    oeef   chopped   fine,    six   crackers 

Old  Reliable  Soap  is  Strictly  Pure 


30 
rolled  fine,  two  eggs,  two  caps   milk,    one    tablespconful  of 
salt,  one  teaspoonfdl  of  pepjjer;  bake  one  and  one-half  hours. 

BEEF  LOAF  No.  2. 
Take  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  chopped  fine,  three  eggs, 
four  soda  crackers  rolled,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,   and  one 
teaspoonful  of  butter.     Make  into  a  loaf  and  bake,  baste  oc- 
casionally with  butter  and  water. 

SHIN  BONE  LOAF. 

Take  a  shin  bone  (beef)  and  boil  till  you  can  remove  from 
the  bone  easily,  then  chop  fine  and  season  to  taste  with  salt, 
pepper  and  sage ;  pour  over  it  some  of  the  water  (while 
warm)  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  and  have  ready  hard 
boiled  eggs  to  place  lengthwise  through  the  center  of  loaf. 
Put  in  a  pan  and  press. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Four  pounds  of  lean  veal,  one  pound  of  fat  salt  pork, 
chopped  fine  before  cooking,  to  which  add  four  eggs,  two 
cups  of  cracker  crumbs  (rolled  fine),  one  cup  of  water,  salt, 
pepper  and  sage  to  taste.  Bake  in  slow  oven  three  hours. 
Butter  may  be  used  instead  of  pork. 

BAKED  CHOPS. 
Cut  into  slices,  the  thickness  of  a  penny,  raw  potatoes ; 
arrange  in  a  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  put  in  enough  cold  water  to  prevent  burning. 
Place  the  dish  on  the  top  shelf  of  a  very  hot  oven  in  order 
to  brown  the  potatoes  in  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready  some 
loin  chops,  (one  for  each  person).  When  the  j)otatoes  are 
browned  remove  the  dish  from  the  oven  and  place  the  chops 
on  the  top,  add  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  hot  water  if  required. 
Cook  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

HASHED  MEAT  BALLS. 

One  cup  of  chopped  remnants  of  steak  or  any  meat,  two 
cups  of  chopped  boiled  potatoes,  pepper  and  salt,  butter  half 
size  of  an  egg.  Shape  into  round  cakes  by  taking  flour  into 
the  hand.     Fry  in  butter. 

Old  Reliable  Soap  Is  Harmless 


31 
HAEICOT  OF  MUTTON. 

Divide  the  chops  of  a  two  pound  loin  of  mutton,  take  oS 
the  superfluous  fat,  cut  two  onions  into  rings,  and  fry  them 
with  the  meat  a  nice  brown,  in  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter, 
thicken  a  half  pint  of  gravy  \\ith  a  little  flour,  and  pour  it 
over  the  chops.  Set  them  at  the  side  of  the  fire  to  stew 
slowly  for  three-quartere  of  an  hour,  or  rather  more.  Par- 
boil iwo  carrots,  two  turnips,  and  half  a  head  of  celery,  cut 
the  former  into  shapes,  and  the  celery  into  slices,  and  add 
them  to  the  meat  about  twenty  minutes  before  serving.  Pour 
in  a  glass  of  port  wine,  two  spoonfuls  of  catsup,  a  little  Tour- 
nade's  Kitchen  Bouquet,  and  after  boiling  it  once  up,  serve 
it  hot. 


OLD  RELIABLE  SOAP 


Laundry,  Kitchen,  Bath  Room, 

And  General  Cleaning  Purposes. 


Will  not  injure  the  finest  fabric. 
Will  not  harm  the  skin. 

Made  of  choicest  materials,    and    contains    no 
rosin  or  any  injurious  article. 

Most  economical  Soap  in  the  market. 


W.  H.  Mansfield  &  Co., 

Sole  Proprietors. 


Rockwood  &  Go's 
Cocoas  and  Chocolates 

We  heartily  recommend  to  our  customers. 

W.  H.  Mansfield  &  Co. 


Try  Acorn  Brand  Chocolate  Creams 


DRINK 


Mm 


WBI 


mm 


m 


The  finest  Imported.         Blended  from 

Tlie  Choicest  Gi^ades  of  Leaf 

After  years  of  study  by  skilled  experts. 

One  trial  will  satisfy  you  that  it  is  superior  to 
any  other  Tea  on  offer,  and  is  at  the  same  time  more 
economical  than  the  lower  grades,  as  it  takes  less 
of  it  to  make  Tea  of  the  desired  streng-th. 

FOR  SAT,E  BY 


W.  H.  MANSFIELD  *&  CO.,  Putnam 


VEGETABLES. 


Always  let  the  water  boil  before  putting  in  the  vegeta- 
bles, and  continue  to  do  so  until  they  are  done. 
TURNIPS. 

Turnips  should  be  pealed  and  boiled  from  forty  minutes 
to  an  hour. 

BEETS. 
Beets  should  be  boiled  from  one  to  two  hours,  then  put 
in  cold  water  and  slip  off  the  skins. 

SPINACH. 
Boil  twenty  minutes. 

POTATO  PUFFS. 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper,  make  into 
balls;  while  hot,  brush  over  the  balls  with  the  beaten  yolk  of 
an  egg.  Butter  a  tin  pan,  brown  them  quickly  in  a  hot  oven 
from  five  to  ten  minutes. 

POTATO  CHIPS. 

Slice  potatoes  very  thin  with  slicer  or  sharp  knife,  soak 
in  cold  water  from  ten  to  twenty-four  hours  to  remove 
the  starch,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown.  Drain  upon  brown 
paper,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  while  still  warm.  The  frying 
basket  must  not  be  more  than  one-third  full  at  a  time,  and 
must  be  held  so  as  to  be  easily  lifted  from  the  fat  should 
there  be  any  danger  of  its  boiling  over  before  the  water  evap- 
orates. The  potatoes  can  be  fried  the  day  before  using  if 
more  convenient,  as  they  can  easily  be  recrisped  by  placing 
a  few  moments  in  the  oven. 

STEWED  POTATOES. 

One-half  pint  of  milk ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  add  buttei-, 
pepper,  salt  and  flour  enough  to  thicken,  dissolved  in  cold 
water.  Lastly  put  in  four  large  boiled  potatoes  cut  in 
squares.     Heat  thoroughly. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Cut  six  boiled  potatoes  in  small  pieces.  Make  a  dress- 
ing of  one  pint  of  milk  and  three  spoons  of  flour.     Boil  until 

Buy  your  Potatoes  of  Us 


34 
it  thickens  ;  add  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and 
pepper  enough  to  make  it  very  hot.  Put  into  a  pudding 
dish  alternate  layers  of  potatoes  and  dressing,  and  over  the 
top  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Put  small  bits  of  butter  on 
top  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 
When  boiled  pour  into  a  dish,  which  place  over  the  fire. 
To  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
salt  and  pepper — let  them  get  hot — add  seven  potatoes  the 
moment  they  are  done  and  mash  without  stopping  until  they 
are  cool. 

BAKED  POTATOES  WITH  BEEF. 
Pare  potatoes  of  equal  size  and  put  them  into  the  same 
pan  in   which   the   beef  is  baked.      Every   time   the   beef  is 
basted   the   potatoes    should  be  basted.     Serve   around  the 
beef. 

BRISTLED  POTATOES. 
Cut    small   boiled  potatoes  in  two,  place   in  a  pan,    add 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 
One-half   pound  of  cold  boiled    potatoes,  two    ounces  of 
onions,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  chpped   parsley,  butter  size 
of  an  egg.     Slice  the  potatoes,  jjut  the  butter  into  a  pan,  add 
the  onions  (minced),  fry  to  a  light  brown,  then  add  parsley 
and  serve  hot. 

PARSNIPS. 
Boil  from  twenty  or  thirty   minutes,    until  quite  tender. 
Then  slice  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

ONIONS. 
Boil  onions  in  two  waters.     Add  milk  the  last  time. 

SI  RING  BEANS. 
String  beans  should  be  carefully  strung  and  cut  in  small 
pieces.     Boil  one  hour.     Season  with  salt,  pej)per  and  butter. 
SHELLED  BEAS. 
Boil  from  half  to  one  hour. 

GREEN  CORN. 

Boil  half  an  hour. 

Best  Butter  and  Cheese  at  Mansfield's 


35 
GEEEN  PEAS. 

Peas  should  not  be  shelled  until  just  before  they  are  cook- 
ed, and  they  should  not  be  washed,  as  it  takes  the  sweetness 
from  them.  Put  into  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  briskly  for 
twenty-five  minutes. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 
Do  not  skin  them.  Scoop  out  a  place  in  the  tops  and 
fill  with  dressing  made  of  one  onion  fried  in  butter,  add 
bread  crumbs  moistened  with  water,  and  season  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt.  Fry  them  a  moment ;  fill  with  the  stuffing ; 
let  it  project  over  the  tops  and  smooth  it  down.     Bake. 

ONIONS  WITH  CREAM. 

Boil  them  in  salted  water  with  a  little  milk  until  tender. 
Drain  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  white  sauce  made  as 
directed  for  cauliflower.  Seiwe  with  the  sauce  poured  over 
them. 

LIMA  BEANS  WITH  CREAM. 

One  pint  of  beans  into  enough  salted  water  to  cover 
them.  When  tender  drain  off  the  water,  add  one  cupful  of 
boiling  milk ;  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  them  simmer  in 
the  milk  before  serving. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  SAUCE. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  until  tender  in  well  salted  water. 
Put  pieces  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  into  a  pan ;  when  it  bub- 
bles, stir  in  half  a  cupful  of  flour ;  add  two  cups  of  milk ; 
pepper  and  salt.  Stir  all  together  over  the  fire  until  smooth. 
Pour  the  sauce  over  the  cauliflower. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Tie  the  stalks  in  bunches  with  the  heads  all  one  way. 
Boil  in  salted  water  twenty  minutes.  Prepare  thin  slices  of 
toast.  Drain  the  asj^aragus,  lay  it  on  the  toast,  pour   over   it. 

ASPARAGUS  DRESSING. 

Melt  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  the  spider,  put  in  grad- 
ually about  a  dessertsj)oonful  of  flour.  Add  one  cup  of 
cream;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.     Cook  about  eight  minutes. 

Best  Brands  of  Macaroni,  Vermicelli,  etc. 


30 
MACAEONI. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  and  stew  in  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water  slightly  salted,  until  soft  and  tender.  When 
drained,  put  a  layer  in  a  baking- dish,  and  grate  over  it  a  lay- 
er of  cheese,  adding  bits  of  butter.  Put  layer  upon  layer 
until  the  dish  is  filled,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  cheese  and  a 
half  Clip  of  milk.  Bake  covered  half  an  hour,  then  brown 
and  serve  in  same  dish. 

STRING  BEANS. 

This  delicious  vegetable  is  rarely  jjroperly  cooked- 
When  well  prepared  it  is  quite  as  healthful  as  peas.  Take 
the  pods  as  fresh  and  young  as  possible,  and  shred  them  as 
finely  as  a  small  knife  will  go  through  them,  cutting  them 
lengthwise,  and,  as  it  were,  shaving  them  very  thin.  Put  in- 
to salted  boiling  water  and  boil  two  hours.  Then  drain  in  a 
colander  and  serve  with  plenty  of  sweet  butter,  and  they 
will  be  as  delicate  as  peas.  If  one  likes  vinegar  a  little  of  it 
will  improve  the  dish. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 
Take  six  tomatoes,  pour  boiling   water    over   them  so  as 
to  remove  the  skin ;  put  them  in   a   saucej^an.     Add   butter, 
pepper  and   salt.     Let   them   cook   fifteen   minutes.     Bread 
crumbs  may  be  added. 

CABBAGE 

Should  be  boiled   nearly  or  quite  an  hour  in  plenty  of  water. 
Salt  while  boiling. 

COEN  FRITTERS. 
Put  one  can  of  Old  Reliable  Corn  into  a  bowl  with  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  cayenne 
pepper,  half  pint  milk,  two  ounces  of  melted  butter  and 
enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  spoonfuls 
of  this  in  smoking  hot  fat  and  fry  same  as  doughnuts. 

GATEAU  AU  EIZ. 

Sufficient  boiled  rice  to  fill  a  mould,  two  eggs  beaten, 
extract  of  vanilla,  bread  crumbs.  Steam  the  rice.  Salt  it 
well.     Do  not  stir  it  but  shake  the   pan   gently.     When  it  is 

Largest  Stock  of  Farinaceous  Goods  in  tlie  County 


37 
nearly  done,  add  rice  and  milk  and  let  it  steam  until  the  milk 
is  absorbed  sufficiently.  When  it  is  done,  add  the  beaten 
egg-  and  flavoring.  Butter  a  mould.  Strew  bread  crumbs  in 
the  bottom  of  it.  Put  in  the  rice  and  bake  one-half  hour. 
Turn  it  out  of  the  mould.     Serve  hot. 

TO  FRY  APPLES. 

Wash  and  wipe  six  large,  fair,  juicy  apples  that  are  not 
too  tart ;  remove  cores  with  a  sharp  knife  or  apple  corer ; 
cut  the  apple  around  in  slices  half  an  inch  think;  fry  in  hot 
butter  until  the  slices  are  nicely  browned  on  both  sides ; 
sprinkle  witn  powdered  sugar  after  removing  to  the  dish  in 
which  they  are  to  be  served.  A  nice  accompauiment  for 
roast  pork. 

TO  MAKE  CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Wash  and  pick  a  quart  of  cranberries  and  put  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  teacupful  of  water ;  stew  slowly,  stirring 
often  until  they  are  as  thick  as  marmalade ;  they  require  at 
least  one  hour  and  a  half  to  cook;  when  you  take  them 
from  the  fire  sweeten  them  abundantly  with  white  sugar ;  if 
sweetened  while  cooking  the  color  will  be  dark ;  put  into  a 
mould  and  set  aside  to  get  cold. 

TO  BOIL  APPLES. 

Place  a  layer  of  fair-skinned  Baldwins — or  any  nice  va- 
riety— in  the  stewpan,  with  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of 
water.  Throw  on  about  one-half  cup  sugar  to  six  good-sized 
apples,  and  boil  until  the  apples  are  thoroughly  cooked  and 
the  syrup  nearly  thick  enough  for  jelly.  After  one  trial  no 
one  would,  for  any  consideration,  have  fair-skinned  apples 
peeled.  The  skins  contain  a  very  large  share  of  the  pictous 
— jelly-making — substances,  and  impart  a  flavor  impossible 
to  obtain  otherwise.  A  wise  housekeeper,  instead  of  throw- 
ing away  the  skins  and  cores  of  sound  pie  apples  would  use 
them  for  jelly.  A  tamblerful  of  the  richest  sort  can  thus  be 
obtained  from  a  dozen  apples.  Boil  the  skins,  etc.,  a  few 
minutes,  and  strain.  Add  a  little  sugar  to  the  liquid,  and 
boil  until  right  to  turn  into  the  tumbler. 

Don't  fail  to  use  Mansfield's  Extracts 


38 
TO  BAKE  BEANS. 

Parboil  three  cups  of  beans ;  turn  off  the  water  and  pnt 
in  a  beanpot  with  one  pound  of  pork,  streaked  with  lean- 
First  cut  the  pork  rind  in  gashes  and  put  in  pepper  and 
mustard.  Nearly  cover  with  water  and  cook  slowly  six  or 
eight  hours. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Three  pints  of  milk,  one  cup  of  rice,  one  teaspoon ful  of 
salt ;  cook  three  hours  in  double  boiler.  Beat  to  a  paste  and 
stir  in  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  To  serve  as 
a  dessert,  take  half  the  weight  and  put  in  small  pudding  dish, 
beat  whites  of  two  eggs  to  stiff  froth,  add  one  teaspoon  lem- 
on juice,  and  sift  over  top  of  Meringue,  one  teaspoon  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  brown.  Serve  with  fancy  sauce  or  cream. 
For  croquettes  cool  the  remainder,  form  into  oblong  balls 
put  in  wire  baskets  and  fry  in  beef  suet.  Beef  suet  is  better 
than  any  other  fat  for  frying  croquettes.  Serve  croquettes 
with  pieces  of  jelly  on  each. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

One-half  pound  chicken,  chopped  fine ;  season  with  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  celery  salt,  one-fourth 
salt-sjioon  of  cayenne  pej)per,  one  teaspoon  white  pepper,  a 
few  drops  onion  juice,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  one 
teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Make  one  pint  of  very  thick  cream 
sauce  and  mix  with  the  chicken.  Shape  in  the  hand  and  roll 
first  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Fry  in 
beef  suet. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

Break  as  many  eggs  as  you  wish  into  a  buttered  dish, 
nearly  cover  them  with  milk,  add  severel  small  pieces  of 
butter  and  sprinkle  with  pepper.  Bake  a  few  minutes  till 
the  white  has  set. 

STUFFED  EGGS. 

Remove  the  shells  from  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  carefully 
lengthwise  and  remove  yolks.  IMash  the  yolks  thoroughly, 
season   with   butter,    pepper,    salt   and    chopped    cucumber 

Fresh  Country  Eggs  always  on  hand 


39 
pickle.     Fill  the  cavities  and  put  the   halves   together,   then 
roll  each  egg  in  white  tissue  paper,  twisting  it  at  the  ends. 

OMELET. 

Four  eggs  and  four  tablespoons  of  milk.  Beat  the 
whites  separately  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  lightly  the  yolks 
which  have  been  beaten  with  the  milk  and  salt,  pour  into  a 
hot  buttered  spider,  and  brown  lightly.  Place  in  the  oven 
long  enough  to  stiffen  but  not  brown  the  top,  fold  and  serve 
immediately. 

xiREAD  CRUMB  OMELET. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  hot  milk  beaten 
with  the  crumbs,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  whites  of  four  eggs   beaten   stiff,    stir   in   the 

last  thing. 

PLAIN  OMELET. 
Beat,  very  thoroughly,  the  j  oiks  of  five   eggs,    ona    des- 
sert spoon  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  two-thirds  of  a   cup    of 
milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large 

as  a  walnut. 

POACHED  EGGS. 
Boil  a  pint  of  milk.  While  boiling  beat  six  eggs  to  a 
froth.  Just  before  the  milk  begins  to  boil,  a^ld  hdlfa  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  stir  into  it; 
then  pour  in  the  eggs,  stir  without  ceasing,  but  gently,  till  it 
thickens — not  more  than  two  minutes.  Take  it  from  the 
stove  or  range,  and  continue  to  stir  half  a  minute  or  so,  and 
then  pour  it  over  two  or  three  thin  slices  of  toasted  bread, 
which  has  been  spread  with  butter,  and  all  pi  epared  in  a 
deep  dish  before  the  eggs  are  put  into  the  milk.  This  is 
very  nice  for  breakfast. 

HARD  SCRABBLED. 

Put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter  into,a  frying  pan.  Beat 
six  eggs.  Jjeason  with  pepper  and  salt.  "Whgn  the  butter 
is  very  hot,  but  not  scorched,  put  in  the  eggs ;  stir  until  it 
thickens,  and  serve  hot. 

HAM  AND  EGG  TOAST. 

Toast  slices  of  bread.     Butter  and  spread  with  cold  ham, 

Use  IVIansfield's  Spices  in  Salads 


40 
chopped  and  seasoned.     Drop  an  egg  in  boiling,  salted  water 
until  the  white  is  set,  then  put  on  top  of   ham.     A   delicious 
breakfast  dish 

HAM  OMELET. 
Chopped  boiled  ham  (one  cupful),  fiur  eggs  well  beaten, 
one-half  cup  milk,  one  teaspoonful   melted  butter;  butter    a 
fiat  pan,  pour  in  the  mixtui-e,  and  cook  like  any  omelet. 

TOMATO  OMELET. 

Chop  fine  one  can  of  Old  Eeliable  tomatoes,  two  chop- 
ped onions,  a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  one  cracker 
pounded  fine;  cover  tight  and  let  simmer  an  hour.  Beat  five 
eggs  to  a  froth,  have  a  hot  griddle  and  pour  the  eggs  into 
the  tomato.     Brown  on  one  side,  fold,  brown  on  the  other. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  while  hot  hard  boiled  eggs,add  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.     Cut  crust  from  bread  and  spread  mixture  between. 

SALAD  DRESSING  NO.  1. 

One  tables^oonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  cf  sguar 
(scant),  one-tenth  of  a  tea-poonful  of  cayenne  pepper  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  one-qu<  rter  of  a 
cup  of  vinegar,  yolks  of  three  uncooked  eggs,  yolk  of  three 
cooked  eggs,  one  pint  of  Rae's  Olive  oil.  Beat  the  yolks  and 
dry  the  ingredients  together  until  very  light  a  d  thick. 
Add  a  few  drops  of  oil  at  a  time  until  the  dressing  becomes 
hard;  when  it  becomes  to  thick  to  beat,  add  a  little  of  the 
lemon,  stir  more  oil,  and  so  on  until  it  is  used  up. 

SALAD  DRESSING  NO.  2. 

One  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  one  of  dry  mustard, 
two  tablespoons  of  sugar  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  three 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  cream.  Mix  and  cook 
until  thick  as  cream. 

SALAD  DRESSING  NO.  3. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  cream,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  tablespoons 
of  ground  mustard,    one-half   teaspoon   of   cayenne   pepper, 

Best  brands  of  Salad  preparations 


41 

one  pint  of   vinegar;  cook   in   water   to    the   consistency   of 
custard.     Bottle  tight.     It  will  keep  one  year. 

SALAD  DRESSING  NO.  4. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  speck  of  cayenne,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  vinegar,  three  eggs.  Let 
the  butter  get  hot  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  flour  and  stir  until 
smooth,  being  careful  not  to  brown ;  add  the  milk  and  boil ; 
place  the  saucepan  in  a  dish  of  hot  water ;  beat  the  eggs, 
salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  mustard  togtther,  add  the  vinegar, 
stir  this  into  the  boiling  mixture  until  it  thickens  like  soft 
custard,  which  will  be  about  five  minutes.  Set  away  to  cool ; 
when  cold  bottle,  and  place  in  ice  chest.  This  will  keep  two 
weeks. 

SALAD  DRESSING  NO.  5. 

Yolk  of  one  egg,  put  it  in  a  soup  plate ;  add  the  oil  drop 
by  drop,  stiring  all  one  way  with  a  silver  fork  until  it  is  as 
thick  as  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  when  dropped  from  the 
fork.  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  of  lemon  juice,  alter- 
nately with  a  teaspoonful  of  oil ;  thin  it  in  this  wuy  until  like 
soft  custard.  Make  two  plates  full  for  a  salad;  one  mix 
with  the  meat,  the  other  spread  over  the  top.  This  dressing 
should  be  used  for  chicken,  shrimp,  lobster  and  potatoes 
salad. 

CHICKEN  SALAD— MIRAND. 

Put  one  quart  of  chicken  in  a  bowl  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  Rae's  Olive  oil, 
one  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
pepper.     Let  it  stand  one  hour. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

One  chicken  (cut  in  small  squares) ;  let  it  stand  as 
directed  in  the  Mirand.  Half  a  bunch  of  celery  chopped  fine, 
let  it  stand  until  cold  and  crisp  in  ice  water.  Mix  chicken 
and  celery  together,  add  one  plate  of  salad  dressing.  Place 
on  a  platter,  dress  around  the  edge  with  celery  tips ;  spread 
one  plateful  of  salad  dressing  over  the   top    of   the   chicken. 

Be  wise  and  use  Victor  Flour 


42 
Put.  a  row  of  olives  around  it,  and  boiled  eggs   cut   in   rings 
or  beets  cut  in  pointed  pieces.     J^obster   salad   is   made   the 
same  way  only  add  mustard  and  curry  powder  with  season- 
ing.    Dress  platter  with  lettuce,  omit  olives. 

POTATO  SALAD  NO.  1. 

One  quarts  of  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  thin  slices,  then  in 
small  squares,  while  \sarm,  not  hot;  one  tablespoonful  of 
grated  onion,  two  tablespoons  of  chopped  parsley,  and 
enough  of  the  "cream  salad  dressing"  to  make  moist.  Put 
in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  or  two. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

One  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  salt  and  mustard  rubbed 
smoothly  together,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  Rae's  oil ;  add 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  cream,  and  one- 
half  cup  of  vinegar.  Place  within  a  kettle  of  boiling  water 
and  cook  until  it  thickens. 

POTATO  SALAD  NO.  2. 

Boil  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  large  egg  in  three-fourths 
of  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  water.  Mix 
the  yolks  of  two  large  eggs,  or  three  small  ones,  juice  and 
grated  I'ind  of  one  lemon,  one  teaspoon  each  of  mustard,  salt, 
curry  powder  (scant)  and  sugar,  oue-half  teaspoon  of  pepper. 
Add  all,  well  beaten,  to  the  hot  vinegar,  also  one-half  cup  of 
cream,  rich  milk  or  white  of  egg.  Strain  and  set  on  stove  to 
thicken.  Boil  eight  potatoes  with  two  or  three  sliced  red 
beets,  cut  up  salt  and  pepper.  Grate  the  yolks  of  two  hard 
boiled  eggs  and  sprinkle  over  the  dressing.  Garnish  with 
rounds  of  the  boiled  whites. 

CABBAGE  SALAD  NO.  1. 

One  cup  of  vinegar  scalded  with  butter  size  of  an  egg. 
Reserve  pa»  t  of  the  vinegar  and  mix  with  one  and  one  half 
teaspoons  of  mustard,  two  eggs  beaten,  two  teaspoons  of 
sugar  and  one  of  salt.  Beat  all  together  and  add  to  the 
scalding  vinegar.     For  two  pounds  of  cabbage. 


43 
CABBAGE  SALAD  NO.  1. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspo ons  of  salt  and 
pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  of  melted  butter, 
four  of  vinegar,  two  of  water.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and 
pour  over  the  chopped  cabbage.  Then  stand  until  cold.  A 
teaspoon  of  mustard  may  be  added  if  liked. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Two  heads  of  lettuce,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoon of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoou  of 
white  sugar,  one -half  teaspoon  made  mustard,  one  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  four  tablespoon?  of  vinegar.  Rub  yolks  of  eggs 
to  a  powder,  add  sugar,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  mustard,  let 
stand  five  minuaes,  beat  in  vinegar. 

SAUCE  TARTARE. 

Put  into  a  very  small  bowl  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  des- 
sert spoonful  of  the  best  vinegar,  and  a  little  salt ;  whip  up 
this  mixture  with  a  whisk  as  quickly  as  possible.  When  the 
whole  forms  a  sort  of  cream,  add  two  dessert  spoonfuls  of 
oil,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  which  must  be  well  mixed 
previously;  a  pinch  of  parsley  minced  very  fine,  and  a  little 
cayenne.  The  oil  should  be  put  in  drop  by  drop  to  mix 
jDcrfectly.  A  little  of  Tournade's  Kitchen  Bouquet  improves 
the  flavor. 


-FOK    MAKING- 


MUSH,  GEMS,  PUDDINGa&c, 

Palatable, 

Delicate, 
Easily  Digested 


Purest, 
Healthiest. 
Best, 

And    most    popular 
preparation  of 

WHEAT 
On  tlie  Market. 


mm 


IPI^P^I    And  very  nourishing 


Excellent  for  Invalids 


COOKS    IN    FIVE    MINUTES    ! 

Highly  recommended  by 

W.  H.  MANSFIELD  &  CO.,  Putnam 


a 


^@    ^ 


1?]^ 


mp  jm  1 


^'^ 


"Wholesale  Dealer  in 


WQ^QlSn 


J§^&&tl&  W^Wl' 


Sole  New  Enerland  Atrent  for 


Bishop,    Hoyt    &    Co's 

ORilGE  LME  FIOIIM  OPiAIGES 


BREAKFAST  DISH. 

ASKYOURGHOCERFORIT. 
W.H.Mansfield  &  Co 

Putnam,  Conn. 


^  A  V  E  N  A 


464  Broadwa 


Mass. 


A  USEFUL  PHESENT        A  DIFFERENT  PRESENT 
AN  ACCEPTABLE  PRESENT 

In  every  Package. 


KING  OF  WASHING  POWDERS. 

I  have  used  three  of  the  principal  W  ashing  Powders  now 
sold  at  the  stores,  auJ  I  have  thoroagaly  tried  SavaNa.  It  is 
certainly  superior  to  any  other  Washing  Powder.  In  my 
opinion  it  is  the  ''King  of  Washing  Powders,"  aad  just  what 
housekeepers  want.  I  <'aii  do  my  washing  in  just  half  the 
time,  and  with  le-s  hard  labor,  by  using  S.wena.  For  all 
woolens,  say  blankets,  flannels,  uuderwear,  etc.,  it  has  no 
equal.  It  thoroughly  cleanses  woolens  with  very  litt'e  rub- 
bing, ]'  aving  them  soft  and  white,  without  shrinking,  and 
without  the  least  injury  to  the  liands  or  clothes.  House- 
keepers, try  it. — Mrs.  G.  T.  Louc^ef,  Middletown,  N.  H. 


BREAD. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

One  quart  flour  weighs  one  pound. 

One  quart  Indian  meal  weighs  one  pound  two  ounces. 

One  quart  soft  butter  weighs  one  pound  one  ounee. 

One  quart  lump  sugar  weighs  one  pound. 

One  quart  powdered  sugar  weighs  one  pound  one  ounce. 

One  quart  best  brown  sugar  weighs  one  pound  two  ouces. 

Ten  eggs  average  one  pound. 

Two  cups  sifted  flour  weigh  one  pound. 

One  pint  sifted  flour  weighs  one  pound. 

One  pint  white  sugar  weighs  one  pound. 

Two  tablespoons  of  liquid  weighs  one  ounce. 

One  gill  weighs  four  ounces. 

One  pint  weighs  sixteen  ounces. 

YEAST  BREAD,  NOT  KNEADED. 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  cooking  spoon  of  sugar. 
Cut  a  cooking  spoonful  of  butter  into  what  you  think  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  batter,  and  add  a  scant  spoonful  of  salt. 
Dissolve  one-half  a  yeast  cake  in  luke  warm  water.  Add  one 
pint  of  water  to  the  milk,  having  the  mixture  luke  warm,  at 
least.  Pour  this  on  to  the  flour,  turn  in  your  dissolved  yeast 
cake  and  stir.  Add  moie  flour  if  necessary  until  you  have 
quite  a  stift"  batter,  though  not  as  stiff  as  if  you  kneaded  it. 
Cover  and  put  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning  cut  it  down 
with  a  knife  and  form  into  loaves,  if  possible  not  adding  any 
dry  flour. 

BREAD. 

One  quart  of  milk  well  scalded,  one-half  yeast  cake  dis- 
solved in  luke  warm  water  or  milk.  When  the  milk  is  cool, 
add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Pour 
upon  about  two  quarts  of  flour,  if  necessary  add  more  flour 

The  Victor  Fancy  Patent  is  the  Best 


48 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  This  is  not  to  be  moulded  but  stirred 
with  a  spoon.  In  the  morning-  add  two  tablespoons  of  melt- 
ed butter.  Knead  half  an  hour  and  let  it  rise  a  verj'  little, 
then  put  in  pans  and  let  it  rise  about  one-third  of  what  you 
wish  when  baked.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Bake  slowly 
twenty  minutes,  browning  a  little,  then  cover  with  paper  and 
bake  about  forty  minutes. 

TO  MAKE  PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  put 
in  one-half  cup  of  sifted  white  sugar,  lard'size  of  one  half  au 
egg,  one  pint  cold  boiled  milk,  a  little  salt,  one  teacup  good 
yeast;  let  it  stand  over  night  without  kneading;  in  the  morn- 
ing stir  it  up,  place  it  on  the  board  and  knead  it  well  fifteen 
minutes,  then  put  it  in  the  pan  again  and  let  rise  in  a  cold 
place  till  noon ;  about  two  hours  before  baking,  roll  out  pret- 
ty thin  and  cut  out  with  a  pint  pail  cover,  put  a  little  butter 
on  one-half  the  top  and  double  it  over.  Allow  plenty  of  room 
in  the  pan  for  rising,  and  when  light  bake  from  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes. 

BROWN  BREAD  No.  1. 
Three  caps  of  Indian  meal,  three  cups  of  boiling  water 
poured  over  the  mea),  add  two  cups  of  rye  meal,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon 
of  salt,  two  large  spoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk. 
Steam  four  hours. 

BRO  vVN  BREAD  No.  2. 

One  cup  of  Indian  meal  with  water  enou<:h  to  scald  it, 
one  cup  of  rye  meal,  one  cup  of  sour  milk  with  two  teaspoons 
of  soda  stirred  into  it,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  egg 
if  you  choose,  two  dozen  raisins  to  flavor,  flour  to  thicken, 
mix  soft. 

BROWN  BREAD  No.  3. 

One  pint  of  Indiam  meal,  one  pint  of  rye  meal,  one  cup 
of  flour,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  quart  of  buttermilk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

All  kinds  of  Selected  Corn  Meals 


49 
BROWN  BREAD  No.  4. 

Three  cups  of  Indian  meal,  one  cuy  of  flour,  two  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses ;  soda 
and  salt.     Steam  four  hours. 

BROWN  BREAD  No.  5. 

Two  pints  of  rye,  one  pint  of  Indian  meal,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  pint  of  buttermilk  with  two  teaspoons  of  soda 
dissolved  in  it.  Mix  with  enough  sweet  milk  or  water  to 
make  a  thick  batter.  Add  a  dessert  spoon  of  salt.  Steam 
five  or  six  hours. 

BUNNS. 

Three  cups  of  warm  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  su- 
gar, one-half  cup  of  yeast  (or  one-half  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
water),  flour  enough  for  batter.  In  the  morning,  when  very 
light,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
melted  butter  and  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Knead  stiff 
and  let  it  rise  again,  then  cut  into  bits  and  add  raisins,  four 
or  five  to  each  bunn.  Let  it  ri&e  again  in  pans,  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  while  still  hot  mcisten  the  tops  with 
equal  parts  of  milk  and  molasses. 

HOT  BISCUITS. 

One  quart  of  flour  with  one  teaspoon  of  a  oda,  and  a  little 
salt  sifted  into  it ;  then  work  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  mix  Avith  buttermilk  or  sour  milk  as  soft  as  you  can  han- 
dle. Do  not  knead  it,  but  cut  out  and  bake  the  biscuits  as 
quickly  as  possible,  wetting  the  tops  and  sides  with  a  little 
melted  butter. 

CORN  CAKE  No.  1. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  ta- 
blespoons of  melted  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  two  teaspoons 
of  cream  tartar.  Rub  meal,  flour,  sugar,  cream  tartar  and  a 
little  salt  together.  Add  milk  and  soda. 
CORN  CAKE  No.  2. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  white  corn  flour,  one  cofl'ee  cup  of 
flour,  two  coffee  cups  of  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  coffee  cup  of 
sugar,  one-half  coffee  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  Royal  Baking  Powder. 

Fancy  Molasses  we  brag  about 


50 
CORN  JHEAL  BREAD  No.  3. 
One  cup  of  meal,  one  of  flour,  one  of  milk,  one  egg,  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,    one   of 
soda  and  one  of  salt. 

WHEAT  MUFFINS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  the  dry  ingredi- 
ents with  the  flour  and  I'ub  through  a  sieve ;  melt  the  butter 
with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water ;  beat  the  eggs  light 
and  add  the  milk ;  stir  into  the  flour  and  add  the  butter; 
beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  buttered  muffin  pans  twenty-five 
to  thirty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  One-half  quantity  may  be 
used  as  well. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  stir 
in  water  to  make  a  thin  batter  and  beat  thoroughly,  then  four 
tablespoons  of  yeast,  set  in  a  warm  place  and  lise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  add  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  also  two  table- 
spoons of  molasses. 

CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Add  half  a  pint  of  milk  to  one  can  Old  Reliable  Corn ; 
heat  same ;  beat  up  two  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  one  teaspoonful 
sugar,  two  saltspoonfuls  of  salt  dissolved  in  a  gill  of  water, 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  ten  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
corn,  mix  well ;  this  makes  a  thick  batter.  Just  before  us- 
ing stir  in  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder  ;  use  only  one  ta- 
blespoonful  of  the  batter  to  each  cake. 

GRAHAM  FRITTERS. 

Two  cups  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk:  two  cups  of  gra- 
ham flour,  six  tablespoonfuls  white  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  soda,  a  little  salt. 

FRITTERS. 

Two  cups  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
soda,  flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter. 

We  sell  only  Pure  Cream  Tartar 


51 
APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Beat  to  a  froth  two  eggs,  and  stir  into  this  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  cups  of  flour;  pare  and 
core  nice  tart  apples,  cut  in  slices,  dip  them  in  the  batter, 
being  sure  to  have  the  apple  well  covered,  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard  a  delicate  brown ;  sprinkle  with  sugar  or  dissolve  any 
kind  of  jelly  in  a  little  hot  water  and  pour  over  the   fritters. 

RYE  BREAD. 

Two  cups  of  rye  meal,  four  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of 
yeast,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  hot  mashed  potato,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  salt.     Mix  with  warm  water. 

SQUASH  BISCUITS. 
Sift  squash  as  for  pies,  and  to  a  pint  put  one  quart  raised 
dough,  add  two  tablespoons   of  butter   and   one   of    sugar. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  set  to  rise.     Put   sugar   and   water   on 
top  after  they  are  baked. 

CREAM  TARTAR  BISCUITS. 

Two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
two  large  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  little  salt.     Have  a  hot  oven.     Mix  soft. 

BUTTERMILK  BISCUITS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  two  tea- 
spoons soda,  one  coffee  cup  of  buttermilk,  salt ;  mix  soft. 

GRAHAM  CAKES. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  molasses, 
two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  cup 
of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  of  all  kinds  of  spice,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  one  cup  of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped.  Bake  in 
gem  pans. 

EMMA'S  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  graham  meal,  one-half  pint 
of  scalded  milk  into  which  put  three  large  iron  spoons  of 
molasses  and  a  little  salt.  IVlix  graham  with  flour,  add  the 
wetting  while  warm,  lastly  add  one-third  of  a  yeast  cake  dis- 
aolved  in  luke  warm  water;  add  a  little  water  if  needed;  rise 

We  Handle  the  Best  Graham  Flour 


52 
over  night,  mold  into  loaves  in  the  morning,  and  rise  in  pans 
Hke  yeast  bread.     This  makes  one  loaf. 

MUFFINS. 

One  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
one  of  melted  butter,  two  teaspoon  fuls  cream  of  tartar,  one 
of  soda,  flour  to  make  a  batter  as  thick  as  cup  cake.  Bake 
in  a  roll  pan  in  a  very  quick  oven. 

GKAHAM  MUFFINS. 
One  and  one-half  cups  gi-uham  flour,    one   and   one-half 
cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  buttermilk,    one   egg,    two   table- 
spoons of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  melied   butter,    one   tea- 
spoon of  soda,  salt. 

SALLY  LUNN. 
One  quart  of  flour,  piece  of  butter  size  of  egg,  three  ta- 
blespoons of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  milk,  two  tea- 
spoons of  cream  tartar,  one  teasjDOon  of  soda,  salt.  Scatter 
cream  tartar,  salt  and  sugar  into  flour,  add  eggs,  butter 
melted,  and  one  cup  of  milk ;  dissolve  soda  in  remaining  cup, 
and  stir  all  together  steadily  a  few  minutes.  Bake  in  two 
round  pans. 

POPOVERS. 

Two  cups  of  milk,  two  even  cups  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt.     Bake  one-half  hour. 

OATMEAL. 
Pour  two  cups  of  boiling  water  on  ore  cup  of  Nudavene 
Flakes,  add  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  one  hour  in 
a  double  kettle.     Serve  with  cream. 

Stir  one  large  cup  of  H.  O.  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boil- 
ing water,  salt  to  taste ;  boil  from  three  to  five  miuvites,  stir- 
ring constantly,  and  serve  hot  or  cold  with  milk,  cream,  sugar 
or  syiup.  Or  fry  in  slices  after  cooling  thoroughly,  and 
serve  with  butter,  sugar  or  syrup. 

Try  our  Pure  Maple  Syrup 


^c 


I  WANT  SOME  MORE." 


"'  •' ?i  ■■gjIfflff'-'gMBe^-'^ 


FERTECT 


"  I  want  some  more." — Oliver  Twist. 

This  immortal  remark  of  Oliver's  was  occasioned  by  the 
sly  action  of  the  cook  in  substituting  H-O  for  the  commoner 
brands  of  oatmeal.  Taken  at  breakfast  H-0  acts  as  a 
natural  system  tonic,  and  aids  largely  in  removing  the  evils 
of  dyspepsia  and  indigestion.  It  costs  more  and  is  worth 
more  than  other  oats. 


The  H-0  Company. 


-FOR    SALE    BY- 


W.  H.  MANSFIELD  &  CO.,  Putnam,  Ct. 


>\     HAVE    ^     HOT    \v 

]R0jal.  Milk  EigeRit) 

At  Every  Meal. 

Serve  them  hot,  and  you  will  find  them  of  the 
most  delicious  flavor,  and  the  most  desirable  of  any 
biscuit  manufactured. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Place  in  a  hot  oven,  immediately  before  breakfast,  din- 
ner, lunch  or  tea,  a  sufficient  number  for  the  table,  and  when 
wanned  through  place  upon  table  and  use  while  hot. 

Caution — Do  not  let  them  renain  in  oven  long  enough 
to  burn. 


Those  who  have  tried  them  in  this  way  will  use 
no  other  kind  of  cracker.  Each  cracker  is  stamped 
"Parks  &  Savage  Royal."  There  are  none  genuine 
without  our  name,  as  we  are  the  only  manufacturers 
of  this  celebrated  Biscuit. 

(Ask  your  grocer  for  them.) 

Parks  Sl  Savage, 

HARTFORD,  CONN. 


-FOR    SALE    BY 


W,  H,  MANSFIELD  &  CO, 


CAKE. 


A  TEST  FOE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Put  a  piece  of  white  paper  into  the  oven,  close  the  door 
and  open  in  five  minutes.  If  the  paper  is  a  rich  yellow,  the 
oven  is  right ;  if  a  light  yellow  it  is  too  cool ;  if  a  dark  brown 
too  hot.  For  pound  cake  it  should  color  the  paper  light 
brown ;  for  cup  cake,  the  same  or  hotter ;  for  molasses  and 
and  all  thin  roll  cakes,  the  jjaper  should  be  dark  brown. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of 
eggs,  two  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  one  and 
onequaiter  pounds  of  citron,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  nutmeg,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  a  half 
teasj)oonful  of  mace.  This  makes  two  large  loaves.  If  too 
dry,  moisten  with  a  little  strong  coffee. 

RIBBON    CAKE. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,one  of  sweet 
milk,  one  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder,  four  cups  of  flour, 
four  eggs.  Reserve  a  third  of  this  mixture,  and  bake  the 
rest  in  two  loaves  of  the  same  size.  Add  to  the  third  re- 
served one  cup  of  raisins,  one-fourth  pound  of  citron,  one 
cup  of  currants,  two  tablespoons  of  molasses,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  all  kinds  of  spice.  Bake  in  tin  same  size  as  other 
loaves.  Put  the  three  loaves  together  with  the  white  of  an 
egg  or  jelly,  placing  the  fruit  leaf  in  the  middle.     Frost  loaf. 

JUMBLES. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  three-foui-ths  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  three  eggs  ;  three  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  one  heap- 
ing teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Mix  with  sufficient 
flour  to  roll ;  roll  and  sprinkle  with    sugar   and  a  little  mace. 

NEAPONITAN  CAKE. 

White  cake  :  One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugai',  one 
cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  coi'n  starch  ;  one 
teaspoon  of  soda,  two  teaspoons  of   cream    tartar,    whites  of 

Dried  Fruits  a  Specialty, 


56 
seven  eggs  beaten  stiff.     Mix   the   corn    starch  and  flour  to- 
gether. 

Dark  cake  :  One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses, one 
cup  of  very  strong  coffee,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  four  and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  in  the 
coffee,  two  teaspoons  »f  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  currants,  citron    and  raisins. 

Filling  and  frosting  :  The  whites  of  two  eggs,  juice  of 
two  lemons  and  grated  rind  of  one,  and  powdered  sugar 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  frosting. 

CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  ten  eggs, 
one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  English  walnuts,  one-half 
pound  of  figs,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  one  large  teaspoon 
of  mace,  one  tablespoon  of  molasses  with  a  speck  of  soda,one 
tablespoon  of  brandy  or  wine.     Beat  the  eggs  separately. 

IMPERIAL  CAKE. 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  jiouud  of  sugar,  one 
of  flour,  one  of  English  walnuts,  one  of  raisins,  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  citron,  one  tablespoon  of  mace,  one  wine  glass 
of  brandy. 

NUT    CAKE. 
One  cup  sugai-,  one-half  cup   of    butter,    one-half  cup  of 
milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two   eggs,    one   teaspoon  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  one  cup  of  nuts  and  one  cup  of  raisins  chopped 
together. 

PLYMOUTH  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
two  cups  of  flour,  three  egga,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk,one 
teaspoon  of  Royal  Baking  Powder. 

PORK  CAKE. 

One-half  pound  of  pork  chopped  fine,  pour  over  this  one 
cup  of  boiling  water,  then  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one.half  cup 
of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  pounds  of  fruit 
more  or  less,  four  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  according  to  the 
fruit  used,  spices  of  all  kinds,  and  lemon. 

Use  Old  Reliable  Tomatoes. 


MARBLE  CAKE. 

Light :     Whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  and 
one-half  caps  of  white  sugar,    one-half  cap  of  butter    beafce  i 
with  the  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar  in  two  and   one- 
half  cups  of  flour.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

Dark  :  Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  whole  one,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cap  of  molasses  with 
one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  cups  of  flour,  spice  of  all 
kinds,  and  fruit.     Add  a  little  more  flour  for  the  fruit. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  nine  eggs,  small  cup 
of  butter.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  add  one  cup  of  milk  with  a  small  cup  of  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  it,  one  even  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  two 
cups  of  flour.  Sift  the  cream  tartar  in  the  flour.  Mix  well 
the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs ;  add  the  corn  starch  and  milk 
but  do  not  beat,  then  add  the  flour.  Mix  again.  Add  the 
soda  the  last  thing  and  put  in  the  oven  instantly.  Have  a 
slow,  steady  fire.     Flavor  with  almond. 

WALNUT  CAKE. 

Whites  of  five  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one  of  cream  tartar.  Cream  butter 
and  !-ugar  with  the  hand,  add  one  cup  of  flour,  with  cream 
tartar,  soda  in  milk,  last  cup  flour.  Beat  up  light, -add 
vaoilla  and  one  large  cup  of  walnuts. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  whites  of 
four  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspocnful  almond. 

W^HITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  six  cups  of  flour,  three  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one- 
teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar. 

Use  Old  Reliable  Corn 


58 
ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
three  scant  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar, 
one-half  of  soda,  flavor  with  vanilla,  M'hite  of  three  eggs  put 
in  last,  yolks  not  used.  This  makes  two  thin  loaves  to  put 
filling  between. 

Filling :  Two  tablesj)oons  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  six 
teaspoons  of  cold  water ;  pour  this  over  one  cup  and  a  half 
of  powdered  sugar,  beat  half  an  honr.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Butter  tin  in  which  cake  is  to  bake,  in  this  spread  the  filling 
and  let  it  stand   over   night.     Put   this   between    the    cakes 

with  white  of  an  egg. 

DARK  CAKE. 

One-half  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  coffee  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, one-  half  cup  of  buttermilk,    one-half   cup    of    butter, 
one-half  cup  of  raisins,  one  egg,    one   teaspoonsful    of    soda, 
one  half  teaspoonful  of  all  kinds  of  spice. 
GOLD  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  scant  cups  of  flour. 
After  adding  the  flour,  beat  well  and  then  stir  in  lightly  the 
white  of  one  egg  beaten  vei'y  stiff. 

LUNCH  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one 
cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  flour 
enough  for  a  stiff  batter.  Roll  out  about  half  an  inch 
thick  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon ;  roll  up  lightly,  cut  oft' 
slices  half   an   inch   thick   and   roll    them    in    sugar.     Bake 

quickly. 

HATTIE  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  large  spoonful  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder  ;  flavor.  Bake  in  layers. 
STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

One  quart  of  flour,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  one 
large  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  white 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Use  Mansfield's  Flavoring  Extracts 


59 
ORANGE  CAKE  NO.  1. 

The  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  with  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sugar.  Add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
one-half  of  ice  water  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  in  it, 
two  cups  of  flour  with  a  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  orange.  Bake  in  sbuare  pans,  and  frost 
between  the  layers. 

Frosting:  Two  cups  of  sugar  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  water  boiled  without  stiring  till  it  will  thread  on  the  point 
of  a  skewer ;  pour  it  in  a  fine  stream  over  the  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs  to  which  a  saltspoon  of  cream  tartar  has  been 
added,  beating  steadily  all  the  time.  Add  slowly  the  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  orange  and  beat  till  it  will  harden  on 
the  cake- 

ORANGE  CAKE  NO.  2. 

One-half  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar  beaten  to  a 
cream,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  one- 
half  teaspoouful  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice 
and  a  little  of  grated  rind. 

Frosting  :  Ooe  cup  of  sugar,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  hot 
water  boiled  until  it  will  string.  Have  ready  the  white  of 
one  egg  beaten  stiff,  add  one  saltppooniul  of  cream  tartar  ; 
pour  the  syrup  slowly  on  the  egg,  beating  all  the  time,  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  orange  juice  and  a  little  of  the  grated 
rind :  beat  until  it  will  go  on  the  cake  without  ruuniug. 
SPICE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cui^  of  molas- 
ses, one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour, 
two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  salt,  and  spice  of  all 
kinds. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  five  eggs,  two  teaspoons 
of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  a  little  mace. 

SOUR  CREAM  FILLING. 

One  cup  of  sour  cream  beaten,  one  cup  of  raisins  stoned 
and  chopped,  one-half  cup  of  chopped  figs. 

Our  Teas  take  the  lead  every  time 


60 
ONE-EGG  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter     one  egg,    one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  Royal   Baking   Powder, 
one  cup  of  currants,  two  cups  of  flour. 
COFIEE  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Pow- 
der, piece  of  butter  size  of  egg  rubbed  into  the  flour.  Meas- 
ure one  of  sugar,  putting  two-thirds  of  it  into  the  flour ;  mix 
with  milk  or  milk  and  water  ;  roll  out  until  one-half  inch 
in  thickness.  Spread  the  remainder  of  the  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon on  and  roll  up  like  jelly  cake,  cutting  oft  in  pieces  one- 
half  inch  in  thickness.  One  egg  is  an  improvement,  but  it 
can  be  made  without. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  mo'asses,  one  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  strong  coftee,  four  cups  of  flour,  four 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  cas- 
sia, cloves,  allsj^ice  and  nutmeg,  one  pound  each  of  raisins 
and  currants,  one-quarter  of  citron. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  cf  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  cream 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  of 
flour. 

Filling  :  One  cup  of  milk  (boiling),  two  or  three  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  of  flour  add  to  the 
milk.     After  cooling,  flavor  to  taste. 

Frosting  wade  of  the  whites    of    two    eggs,    four   table- , 

spocns  pulverized    sugar ;  spread    on    cake    and    cover    with 

cocoanut. 

BEAUTIFUL  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three 
eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  cups  of  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  one  of  cream  tartar,  one-half  cup  milk.  A 
good  cake  to  keep. 

COLD  WATER  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one 
teaspoon  of  cream  tariar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  oue  and 
a  half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Mansfield's  Coffees  are  far  famed 


Gl 
MOTHER  HUBBARD  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon Royal  Baking  Powder.  Beat  flour  and  butter  to  a 
cream  ;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  very  light,  put  all  together,  add 
baking  powder  last. 

WHITE  CUP  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of  flour,  one  of 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  Powder,  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten. 

SPONGE  CAKE  NO.  1. 

Beat  well  together  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  with  one  pound 
of  powered  sugar,  then  stir  in  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Beat  the  whole  together  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then 
stir  in  gradually  one-half  pound  sifted  flour.  Flavor  with 
nutmeg  or  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon.  Bake  im- 
mediately. 

SPONGE  CAKE  NO.  2. 

Three  eggs,    one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,     one-half  cup 
of  cold  water,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  pinch  of  salt,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 
MOONY  CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  two  coffee  cups  of    sugar,    one    coffee    cup    of 
butter,  one  coffee  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  three  coffee  cups  of  flour. 
DAYTON  C.IKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of 
flour,  one-half  cup  of  milk  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  six  eggs.  This  is  very  nice  and 
will  keep  three  months,  spiced  a  good  deal  with  two  pounds 
of   raisins,    two    pounds    of    currants,    one    pound    of  citron 

chopped. 

DEXTER  CA.KE. 

Rub  a  half   cup    of  butter   and   one   cup    of   sugar  to  a 

cream,  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  ;  then  add  a 

half  cup  of  milk  in  which   is    dissolved   half   teaspoonful    of 

soda,  beat  well  then  add  two  cups  of  flour  in  which  is  stirred 

Specialty  of  Imported  Canned  Goods 


62 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar ;  one  teaspoonful    of   vanlla. 
Bake  in  three  tins. 

Frosting  :  Yolk  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  pvilverized 
sugar,  beat  fifteen  minutes  ;  flavor  and  spread  between  the 
layers  and  on  top. 

CIKCLE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of 
cream  tartar,  two  cups  of  flour. 

Frosting  for  same  :  One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  one  square  of  chocolate,  a  bit  of  butter. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  yolks 
of  five  eggs,  whites  of  two,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  and  one- 
half  cups  of  floui-,  one  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder. 

Mixtiu'e  for  fillirg  :  Whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  and 
a  half  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Bake  the  cake  on  Washington  pie  plates  and  spread  the 
mixture  between  the  layers  and  over  the  top  of  each  pie,  first 
allowing  the  pie  to  cool.     Thisi  makes  two  pies. 

POUND  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda,  eight  eggs,  one-quarter  pound 
of  citron,    one  pound  of  raisins. 

CORNUCOPIAS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  one- 
half  cup  of  cold  water,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  little  salt.  Bake  in 
small  tins  and  roll  up  like  cornucopias. 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half 
cup  of  melted  butter,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  cream 
tartar,  one  teasj^oon  of  soda,  one  pint  of  berries  rubbed  in  a 
dish  of  flour. 

Try  Millar's  Royal  Paragon  Cheese 


G3 
TEA  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  floui',  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  a  little 
salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  half  cup  of  sugar.  Mix  together, 
then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  one  egg,  and  half 
teaspoon  of  soda. 

POVERTY  CAKE. 
One  cap  of  batter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  three 
cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  raisins  (stoned),  one 
cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one  half  teaspoon  of  soda  in  one-half 
cup  of  molases,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  clove  and 
nutmeg. 

CUP  CAKE. 
Two  cups  sugar,    one  cup  of  milk,    four    eggs,    one-half 
cup  of  butter,    two   teaspoonfuls  of  Royal   Baking   Powder, 
three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour. 

LEOPARD  CAKE. 
One  and  one-quarter  pounds  of  butter,  one  and  one- 
quarter  pounds  of  sugar,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  of 
flour,  a  tablespoon  of  mace.  Divide  the  quantity  for  dark 
part.  Three  pounds  of  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  one 
scant  cup  of  molases,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda 
lemon  and  brandy,  one  teaspoon  of  clove  and  cinnamon. 
Drop  in  like  marble  cake.  .       • 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  sugar,    one-half  cup  of  butter,    one-half  cup 
of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour,    one-half  cup  of  cornstarch,    whites 
of  three  eggs,    one  teaspoon  of  Royal   Baking   Powder,    two 
squares  of  chocolate  (melted). 

LEMON  CAKE 
Two   cups  of  sugar,    one-half  cup  of  butter,    one  cuj)  of 
milk,    three  and  one  half  cups  of  flour,    three  eggs,    two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.     Bake  in 
four  layers. 

Filling:  Grate  the  rind  of  three  small  or  two  large 
lemons  and  a'ld  the  juice  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg, 
one-half  cup  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Boil  until  it  thickens,  then  place  be- 
tween the  layers  of  the  cake. 

Evaporated  Fruits  in  their  season 


64 
CORNSTARCH  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,    one-half  cup  of  butter, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,    one-half   cup    of   cornstarch,    one   and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  Royal  Baking  Pow- 
der, whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  and  stirred  in  last. 
MOLLIE'S  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Sift 
cream  tartar  and  soda  with  the  flour,  cream  butter  and  su- 
gar, add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  mix  well,  then  tlie  flour  and 
milk,  and  lastly  whites  of  eggs. 

FARMER'S  FRUIT  CAKF. 

Wash  thoroughly  three  cups  of  dried  apples,  and  soak 
over  night.  Drain  ofi"  the  water  through  a  seive,  cliop  them 
slightly,  then  simmer  two  hours  in  three  cup  of  molasses, 
then  add  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk 
or  watei*,  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half  teasi^oon- 
ful  of  soda,  flour  to  make  quite  a  stiff  batter,  cinnamon,  clove 
and  other  spices  to  suit  the  taste. 

HARLEQUIN  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs  (yolks), 
one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  measure  each  of 
Horsford's  bread  preparation,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  cream  tartar, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  eggs,  (w^hites),  mix  in  the 
order  giveji.  Then  divide  the  dough  in  four  equal  parts ; 
have  two  parts  the  color  of  the  dough,  flavor  one  with  ex- 
tract of  orange,  the  other  with  vanilla,  color  the  third  with 
two  squares  of  chocolate  melted,  color  the  fourth  with  pink 
coloring  and  flavor  with  strawberry,  then  bake  each.  When 
done  lay  a  light,  then  a  chocolate,  then  a  light,  then  jDink. 
Between  the  layers  spread  lemou  jelly,  and  frost  with  white 
frosting. 

Lemon  jelly  :  Beat  one  egg,  add  one  cujd  of  water,  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  pour  this  slowly  over 
one  cup  of  sugar  mixed  with  two  tablespoonfuis  of  flour. 
Cook  until  quite  smooth. 

Best  Results  from    Mansfield's    Extracts 


[  65 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar.  Sift  the  whole  four  times. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs  to  a  froth  on  a  large  platter, 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  then  add  the  flour<  sugar,  and 
a  little  salt  very  lightly.  Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  slowly 
forty  minutes,  the  pan  must  have  a  tube  in  it ;  let  it  remain 
in  the  pan  until  cold. 

TAVE'S  CAKE. 

Yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  whole  egg,  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  of  cornstarch,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  one-half  of  soda  (in  the 
milk),  one  cup  of  flour  ;  vanilla.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling :  "Whip  one  large  cup  of  sweet  cream,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

SPICE  CAKE. 
One   cup  of  molsses,    with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,    one 
cup  of  sugar,    one  cup  of  butter,    one  cup  of  sour  milk,    two 
eggs,  one  cup  of  raisins,    one  teaspoon  of  all  kinds  of  spices, 
flour  not  to  stiff,  beat  thoroughly. 

MELTED  BUTTER  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
milk,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  soda.  Add  oi.e-half  cup  of  melted  butter  the  last 
thing  before  putting  into  the  oven. 

TEA  CAKES. 

One  scant  half  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs  one-half  cup  of 
melted  butter,  one  and  one  fourth  cups  of  milk,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar,  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.     Bake  in  gem  pans. 

DELICIOUS  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,    one  cup  of  butter,    one  cup  of  milk, 

Latest  Specialties  in  Grocery  line  at  Mansfield's 


66 
three  eggs,  one    teaspoonful   Koyal   Baking   Powder,   three 
cups  of  flour. 

CEEAM  CAKES. 
One  cup  of  boiling  water,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  flour,  and  three  eggs.  Let  the  water  and  butter  come 
to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  the  flour  and  let  it  cook  a  minute  or 
two.  Take  from  the  stove  and  break  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a 
time.  Stir  till  thoroughly  mixed,  then  drop  in  pans.  This 
will  make  a  dozen  cake  .  Bake  in  quite  a  hot  oven  until  the 
butter,  which  comes  to  the  surface  in  bubbles,  disappeai'S. 
Cool  in  the  pans. 

Filling  :  One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one 
egg,  one  pint  of  milk.  Cook  like  custard.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla. 

NELLS  CHOCOLATE  CAKE  NO.  1. 
One  cup  of  sugar,    one-half  cup  of  butter,    one-half  cup 
of  milk,    two    eggs,  two  cups  of  flour    (two-thirds  full),    one 
even  teaspoon  soda. 

Mixture  :  One-half  cake  chocolate,  grated,  one-half  cup 
of  milk,  two  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar,  yolk  of  one  egg. 
Cook  until  it  thickens,  stin-ing  all  the  time,  and  mix  with  the 
cake.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE  NO.  2. 
OniR  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
water,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one  square 
of  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon 
•  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream  ;  dissolve  soda  in  water  ;  mix  cream  tartar  in  flour ; 
dissolve  chocolate  and  beat  in  before  j  utting  in  the  flour. 
Bake  in  one  sheet. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE  NO.  8. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,    one-half  cup  of  milk  or  wa- 
ter,   two  cups  of  flour,    one-half  cup  of  butter,    one  teaspoon 
Koyal  Baking  Powder,  one  square  of  chocolate  ;  vanilla. 
LIGHT  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  milk,    one  cup  of  cornstai'ch,    whites  of  five  eggs, 

Edam,  Pineapple,  Cream  and  Domestic  Cheese 


67 
one  teaspoonful  of   soda,   two   teaspoonfuls   of  cream  tartar. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.      This  is  enough  for  two  cakes,   and  the 
cakes   should   be   cold   before  the  frosting  is  put  on.     Bake 
the  cake  in  sheets. 

Caramel  frosting  :  Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut.  Boil  twenty  minutes  and 
then  take  from  the  stove  and  beat  rapidly  until  cool  enough 
to  spread  on  the  cake.  Melt  some  chocolate  and  put  a  thin 
coating  over  the  top  of  the  boiled  frosting. 
LEMON  CAKE. 

Make  this  cake  the  same  as  -'Light  Cake,"  omitting  the 
flavoring.  If  prefered,  take  an  extra  cup  of  flour  instead  of 
the  cornstarch.      Bake  in  thin  sheets. 

Lemon  filling  :  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  ; 
one  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  butter 
size  of  a  walnut.  Stir  it  over  the  steam  of  a  teakettle  until 
thoroughly  heated.      Tho  boiled  frosting  is  very  nice  on  this 

SILVER  CAKE. 

One  cup   of   butter,    two  cups   of   sugar,    three  cups  of 
flour,    one-half  cup  of  milk,    one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar 
and  one-half  of  soda,   whites  of  eight  eggs, 
TEA  KISSES. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  su- 
gar, two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  two  tea- 
spoons Royal  Baking  Powder.  Dip  out  by  the  teaspoonful  • 
spreas  far  apart  on  a  pan.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  It  takes  but  a  few  minutes,  and 
they  are  very  nice. 

BROWN  SUGAR  CAKE. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  but- 
ter, one  half  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one-third  of  a  tea- 
spoonful of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
currants,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron. 
JAMES  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  two 
eggs,    two  teaspoonfuls  of  molasses,    one  half  cup  sour  milk. 

Day  and   Martin's   Blacking 


68 
oue  large  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour, 
all  kind  of  spice. 

GOOD  ONE  EGG  CAKE. 
One-half  cup  of  butter,    one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of    sweet   milk,    one    egg,    two   teaspoonfuls    Royal 
Baking  Powder,    one  cup  of  raisins  chopped   fine,  three  very 
scant  cups  of  sifted  flour,    flavor. 


FILLING  AND  FROSTING  FOR  CAKE 

RAISIN  FILLING 

Take  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  put  it  into  a  tin  basin  with 
enough  water  to  dissolve  it ;  let  it  boil  until  it  will  harden  in 
cold  water.  Have  ready  a  cupful  of  stoned  and  chopped 
raisins,  then  beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  put 
with  the  raisins  into  the  boiling  sugar.  Stir  briskly,  and 
while  warm  put  it  between  the  layers  of  the  cake. 
CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  piece  of  butter 
half  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  square  of  chocolate  ;  boil  until 
brittle.     Beat  it  a  while  before  putting  on  the  cake. 

FIG  FILLING. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  sc^nt  half  cup  of  water,  boil  till  it 
forms  a  thick  syi*up  and  add  half  a  pound  of  figs  chopped 
fine.  Cook  two  or  three  minutes,  take  from  fiie  and  add  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
When  taken  fro.u  the  stove  it  shoald  be  too  thick  to  ran. 
FROSTING. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  boil 
without  stirring  until  it  ropes  ;  white  of  oue  egg  well  beaten, 
one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  flavor.  Pour 
the  boiling  syrup  on  the  egg,  slowly  beating  all  the  time. 
Beat  until  cool  enough  to  spread. 

For  Chocolate  Frosting  add  two  tablespoonfuls  or  more 
of  grated  chocolate  to  the  egg  before  pouring  on  the  syrup. 

Red  and  Blue  Sugar  for  Cake 


69 
COFFEE  ICING. 

One-half  gill  of  strong  coffee  in  a  sauce-pan,  add  one 
cupful  of  confectioners'  sugar.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  warm. 
Spread  on  cake. 

PINK  COLORING  FOR  CAKF  AND  CREA.MS. 

One-quarter  ounce  each  of  cochineal,  alum,  cream  of  tar- 
tar and  salt  of  tartars,  one  gill  of  boiling  water,  one-quarter 
pound  of  sugar.  To  the  first  three  ingredients  add  the  boil- 
ing water  and  put  in  a  porcelain  stew-pan.  Let  it  stand  on 
the  stove,  without  boiling,  for  twenty-five  minutes  ;  add  the 
salts  of  tartar  very  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time ;  add  the 
sugar,  strain  and  bottle  it.  Use  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls,  ac- 
cording to  the  shade  desired. 

FROSTING  WITHOUT  EGGS. 
Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  in  a  dish  over  a 
slow  fire ;  when  it  simmers  stir  in  slowly  one  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  let  it  boil  five  minutes  without  stirring,  then  set 
the  dish  in  cold  water  or  on  ice  and  stir  to  a  cream.  This 
frosting  does  not  flake  off,  and  with  a  little  practice  is  per- 
fect. Flavor  according  to  taste.  If  it  gets  hard  too  soon 
heat  again. 

BANANA  FILLING  FOR  CAKE. 
One  cup  of  tine  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  boiling  water, 
boil  until  quite  thick  ;  white  of  one  egg,  beaten  stiff.  Pour 
boiling  mixture  over  the  egg,  stirring  constantly ;  add  three 
bananas  sliced  thin,  beat  the  whole  together  until  cool  and 
thick  enough  to  spread  without  running. 

COCOANUT  FILLING. 

One  grated  cocoanut ;  to  one-half  of  this  add  whites  of 
three  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  ;  lay  this 
between  the  cake.  Mix  with  the  remaining  half  of  cocoanut 
four  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar ;  spread  on  top  for 
frosting 

Confectioners'  and  Powdered  Sugar 


Elastic  ^^  Starch 


A   great    invention.        Requires    no    cooking. 

Makes  collars  and  cuffs  stiff  and  nice, 

as    when  first    bouo-ht    new. 


This  Starch  is  made  entirely  different  from 
all  other  Starches,  and  is  the  only  starch  in 
the  United  States  that  is  put  up  by  men 
who  have  a  practical  experience  in  the 
laundry  business.  How  to  laundry  linen 
has  been  kept  a  secret  long  enough,  that 
can  and  should  be  done  in  every  family. 
By  using  this  Starch  your  Shirts,  Cuffs 
and  Collars,  will  be  just  as  stiff  and  nice  as 
when  first  bought  new.  A  fcAV  other  advan  ■ 
tages  this  Starch  possesses  over  all  other 
Starch  is  :  It  requires  no  cooking,  keeps 
the  iron  from  sticking  and  linen  from  blis- 
tering while  ironing.  The  manufacturers 
offer  one  hundi-ed  dollars  in  gold,  if  this 
Starch  jnoves  injurious  to  the  finest  of  lin- 
en. 


J.  C.  Hubinger  Bros'  Co.,  are  the  inventors 
and  originators  of  the  ELi  STIC  STARCH. 
They  didn't  have  to  boiTow  and  steal  the 
name  and  fame  of  their  neighbors  in  order 
to  sell  this  Starch.  Beware  of  worthless 
imitations  which   have   recently   been    put  '. 

into  the  market  to  deceive  the  public.  Be 
sure  that  the  name  ELECTRIC,  cut  of  the  ] 

flat-iron,  and  name  of  J.  C.  Hubinger  Bros'  ' 

Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn.,  is  upon  the  package  i 

without  which  it  can  not  be  genuine.  Al- 
ways in  stock  at  i 

W.  h,  Mansfield  &  Go's.,  Putnam. 


FOR  BEST  RESULTS  USE 


Mansfield's  Flavoring  Extracts 

^  P§jf9@|^  ffwi^  Ellll  8to§li  ^ 

FULL  WEIGHT. 

Endorsed  by  the  best  trade  in  this  section. 


None  better  and  few  if  any  Equal. 

Don't   Spoil    Your  Food 


-BY  USING- 


POOR   EXTRACTS 


W.  H.  Mansfield  &  Co.,  Proprietors. 

Mansfield's  Ground  Spices 


ARE  ABSOLUTELY   PURE 

Ground  from  Selected  and  Best  Spices  by  experienced 
spice  millers,  expressly  for  us,  and  not  one  single  particle  of 
adulteration  ever  had,  or  will  ever  be  added  to  them. 

Of  course  they  cost  more  than  ordinary,  and  so  called 
pure  spices,  but  they  are  certainly  worth  mole,  as  they  are 
stronger;  thus  in  reality  costing  less. 

For  Sale  in  boxes  and  bulk. 

W.  U.Mansfield  &  Co.  Prop. 


Canned   *  Goods 


Largest  Variety,  Largest  Stock,  Finest  Quality,  Freshest 

Goods  most  carefully  Packed  in  Connec- 

ticvit   will   be  found  at 


W.  H.  MANSFIELD  &  GO'S 


Consisting  of  all  kinds  Fruits,  Vegetables,  Meats,  Fish, Soups, 

Potted  Meats  and  Poultry.     French  Vegetables  in  ghss  and 

tin.     California  Fruits  in  glass. 


OiaB  BEiiiABr^®  Tomatoes 

Packed  expressly  for  us  from  selected   stock.      The    Corn    is 
extremely  TENDER,  SWEET  and  free  from  silk. 


The  Tomatoes  are  also  packed  with  extreme  care  from  Per- 
fection variety ;  being  ripe,  yet  always  perfectly  sound. 


As  we  are  heavy  buyers  in  all  lines  of   Canned    Goods,    we 
are  enabled  to  give  lowest  prices. 


W.  H.   Mansfield   &   Co.,    Putnam. 


Cookies  and  Gingerbread, 

MOLASSES    DROPS. 

One  atid  one-half  cups  of    molasses,  one-half  cup  of  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
of  soda,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour. 
GINGER  SNAPS. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  light  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cuiD  of  butter  and  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  three  scant  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar, 
one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  in  which  stir  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  soda.  Pour  over  the  other  ingredients  and  add  Hour. 
Roll  thin. 

SUGAR  COOKIES  No.  1. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  melted  but- 
ter, one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  e^g,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Beat  egg,  stir  in  the  other  ingredients  with  just  floar  enough 
so  that  the  paste  can  be  handled  and  moulded.  Roll  thin 
and  bake  light  but  quickly. 

SUGAR  COOKIES  No.  2. 

Ona  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  thi-ee  ta- 
blespoons of  buttermilk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda;  mix  quite 
hard. 

SUGAR  COOKIES  No.  3. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  butter  beaten  to 
cream  ;  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  and  added,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda,  two  tablespoons  of  sour  milfe;  floiir  to  make  stiff. 
Roll  thin. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES  No.  1. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  molasses  boiled  ten  minutes, 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  flour  to  make 
stiff.     Roll  thin  and  bake  quickly. 

Imported  Vegetables  in  Glass. 


74 
MOLASSES  COOKIES  No.  2. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  molasses,  three-fourths  of 
a  cup  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  boiling  w^ater,  two 
small  teaspoons  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  hot  water,  one  tea- 
spooa  ginger  ;  salt.  Knead  as  little  as  possible.  Roll  thin 
and  bake  quickly. 

BELKNAP  COOKIES. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  one   cup   of   butter,    three   eggs,  one 
quart  of  flour,  one  and  one-half   teaspoons    of  Royal  baking 
powder,  one-half  nutmeg. 

BAKER'S  SQUARES. 
Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  heaping  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  in  the  molass- 
es and  one  in  the  milk,  two  eggs,  flour  to  knead.  Mix  over 
night.     Roll  thick  and  cut   with    a   square    cutter.      Bake    a 

light  brown. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  but- 
ter, three  teaspoons  of  ginger,  one  egg,  two  teaspoons  of  soda 
dissolved  in  six  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  salt  to  taste.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

SPONGE  GINGERBREAD. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  melt- 
ed butter,  one  good  teaspoonful   each    of  soda,  salt  and  gin- 
ger, one  cup  of  boiling  water,  flour   enough  for  a  thin  batter 
as  for  sponge  cake.     Bake  in  thin  sheets  in  a  quick  oven. 
SNICKER-NOODLES. 

Two  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,    three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
four  cups  of  flour.     Drop  in  buttered  pans.     Sift  over  ciuna 
mon  and  sugar  just  before  putting  into  the  oven. 
HERMITS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three 
eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  ©ne  teaspoonful  each  of 
nutmeg,  cassia  aud  allspice, one  cup  raisins  chopped  fine,  one- 
half  cup  of  citron,  chopped,  flour  to  roll.     Quick  oven. 

Mansfield's  Spices  are  Perfection. 


75 
CHOCOLATE   COOKIES. 
One  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one  half   cups   of  sugar,  two 
eggSjOne  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,four  cups 
flonr,two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,two  squares  melted  chocolate 
MARIE'S  NUT  WAFERS 
Two  eggs, one  and  three-quarters  cups  sugar, one-half  cup 
butter,  one  quart  nuts  chopped  tine,  as  little  flour  as  possible 
to  roll  thin. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 
One-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,one-half  cup  of  buttermilk,one  teaspoon 
of  soda,  one  cup  of  raisins,  chopped,  two  cups  of  flour. 

COFFEE   GINGERBREAD 

One  egg,  one  cujd  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  coffee,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-quarter  of  a  tea- 
sj)oonful  of  all  kinds  of  spice,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  three 
cups  of  flour.     Bake  in  a  thin  sheet. 

NICE  DOUGHNUTS  No.  1. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard, 
one  cup  of  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a 
little  salt  and  nutmeg. 

DOUGHNUTS   No.  2. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  two  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  two  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  of  melted  butter,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  a  tiny  bit 
of  cinnamon.     Mix  soft. 

TRIFLES. 

Beat  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  little  salt  and  flour 
enough  to  make  very  stiff.  Roll  as  thin  as  a  wafer  and  fry  in 
hot  lard. 

BAKER'S  GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  teasjDoonfuls  of  so- 
da, one  teaspoonful  of  ginger  ;  flour  enough  to  roll ;  cut  in 
quite  thick  squares;  just  before  putting  into  the  oven  cover 
with  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg. 

Old  Reliable  Soap  makes  the  clothes  white. 


76 
WA.RM  GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  each  cf  soda  and  ginger,  two 
cups  of  flour  ;  salt,  one  cup  of  boiling  water  put  in  just  be- 
fore putting  into  the  oven. 

COFFEE  CAKES  (GERMANj. 
One  quart  of  flour,one-balf  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  mi'k,  two  teaspoons  of 
cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon  of  soda.  Mix  and  roll  an  inch 
thick.  Sprinkle  on  the  dough  one-third  of  a  cup  of  sujT;ar 
mixed  with  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  and  roll  like  a  jelly 
roll.  Cut  off  the  thickness  of  cookies  and  bake,  being  careful 
not  to  have  them  too  near  together  in  the  pan.  These  are 
very  nice  to  ea+  with  coffee  in  place  of  doughnuts. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE. 
Heat  sour  milk  with  a  gentle  heat  (it  is  a  good  way  to 
set  tlie  pan  over  a  kettle  of  warm  but  not  boiling  water)  until 
the  whey  separates  from  the  curd.  Pour  off  the  whey  with 
care,  put  the  curd  into  a  bag,  and  hang  it  to  drip  for  several 
hours.  Do  not  squeeze  it.  Work  it  with  a  spoon  or  with 
the  hands  until  it  is  soft  and  even,  salt  it.  add  a  little  cream 
or  butter,  mould  into  round  balls,  or  leave  it  to  be  served  in 
small  saucers.     It  should  be  eaten  while  fresh. 

BONNY-CLABBER,  OR  LOPPERED  MILK. 

Set  a  china  or  glass  dish  of  skimmed  milk  away  in  a  warm 
place,  covered.  When  it  turns — i.  e.,  become  a  smooth,  firm, 
but  not  tough  cake,  like  blancmange — serve  in  the  same  dish. 
Cut  out  carefully  with  a  large  spoon,  and  put  in  saucers  with 
cream,  powdered  sngar,  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  It  is  better  if 
set  on  the  ice  for  an  hour  before  it  is  brought  to  the  table. 
Do  not  let  it  stand  until  the  whey  separates  from  the  curd. 
Few  people  know  how  delicious  this  healthful  and  simple  des- 
sert can  be  made,  if  eaten  before  it  becomes  tough  and  tart, 
with  a  liberal  allowance  of  cream  and  sugar.  There  ar3  not 
many  jellies  and  creams  superior  to  it. 

Try  Our  Superior  Ground  Ginger 


BENSDORP'S 
iRoyiil  3)Mfch 

-#t@k©e©lal£ei 


See  that  the  covei'  of  every  can 
of  Cocoa  bears  this  stamp. 


For  all  choice  ©@©king  purposes,  as  well  as  S^lnMag, 
this  Cocoa  is  not   only   the  best,j  but  more  conven- 
ient and  economical  than  chocolate  in  cake 
form.     Try  it  once  in  place  of  what 
you  are  now  using.     For  sale 
and  recommended  by 

W.  H.  Mansfield  &  Co. 


PIES. 


PASTRY  FOR  ONE  PIE. 

One  cup  of  flour,  one  large  spoonful  of  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Rub  the  lard  into  the  flour 
and  wet  with  ice  water  uDtil  it  is  a  soft  dough  ;  roll  into  a 
thin  sheet  and  spread  butter  over  it.  Fold  the  corners  over 
it  and  roll. 

PUFF  PASTE. 

One  half  pound  of  flour.  Make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and 
put  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  then  mix  with  the  hand  with  cold 
water.  About  one  gill  is  necessary.  Then  roll  to  one-quar- 
of  an  inch  thick  ;  spread  over  it  one-half  pound  of  butter  as 
evenly  as  possible,  fold  it  in  four  ;  roll  it  again,  fold  as  before 
four  times,  for  extra,  five  times.  Use  only  flour  sufiicient  to 
keep  it  from  sticking.  Cut  it  with  a  paste  cutter  and  color 
with  the  yolk  of  an  e^q,  and  a  little  water.  A  quick  oven  as 
for  roasting  beef.  Do  not  open  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
They  will  be  done  in  fifteen  minutes. 
TART  PASTE. 

Half  cup  of  butter,  half  cup  of  lard,  mixed,  two  cups  of 
flour,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tar- 
tar and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

le:\ion  custard  pie. 

One  cup  of  scalded  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons of  flour,  three  eggs  Take  out  whites  of  two  eggs 
for  frosting.  Grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  BQg.  Beat  together,  then  put  in  hot  milk.  When 
slightly  cool  add  lemon  juice.  Bake  crust  first,  then  spread 
on  filling  and  frost.  Brown  in  oven.  Beat  frosting  on  a 
plate  a  long  time  after  the  sugar  is  added. 

We  always  sell  Pure  Lard 


79 
LEMON  PIE. 

Two  large  lemons,  one  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
four  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  or  three  of  flour. 
Grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon,  squeeze  out  juice  and  pulp  of 
both,  add  sugar  and  water ;  separate  white  from  yolks,  beat 
yolks  and  add  to  lemon;  stir  well  and  put  in  steamer,  let  it 
steam  until  hot.  This  makes  two  pics.  While  steaming  line 
two  plates  with  paste  and  bake,  making  holes  in  crust  so  it 
will  not  blister.  By  the  time  crust  is  made  filling  is  hot 
enough  to  stir  in,  starch  having  been  mixed  with  half  a  cup 
of  water,  let  it  steam  until  thick.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  four  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  half  a  teaspoon 
of  lemon  extract.     Frost  with  this. 

LEMON  PIE  (WITH  FROSTING.) 

Allow  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  two  cnps 
of  sugar,  three  eggh,  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg. 
Rub  smooth  in  some  cold  water  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch. Have  ready  two  cups  of  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan, 
and  stir  into  it  the  cornstarch  until  it  looks  clear.  Then 
pour  into  a  dish  and  add  the  sugar  and  butter.  When  it 
becomes  nearly  cool,  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  of 
the  whites,  beaten  together,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  the 
lemons,  and  bake  in  two  deej)  plates  of  medium  size,  lined 
with  a  delicate  crust.  Beat  up  the  whites  with  two  spoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  very  stiff,  spread  this  over  the  pies  after  they 
are  baked,    sprinkle  with  sugar  and  brown  a  few    minutes  in 

the  oven. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

Six  soda  crackers,  two  cups  of  cold  water,  one  cup  of 
molasses  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
melted  butter,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  cur- 
rants two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  of  clove,  one  of  salt  and  one 
of  black  pepper.  Wineglass  of  brandy  or  cider.  This  is 
enough  for  four  large  pies. 

BOILED  CIDER  PIE. 

One  quart  of  cider  boiled  down  to  one  cupful,  one  heap- 

Largest  line  of  Crackersin  the  County 


80 
ing  cup  siigar,  two  eggs,  one   heaping    tablespoon    of   flour. 
Before   pouring   on  the  crust  add  four  teaspoons  cold  water 
aud  one  teaspoon  vanilla.     Bake  with  two  crusts. 
SQUASH  PIE. 
One  cup  of  strained  squash,  one  egg,    one  and  one-quar- 
ter cups  of  riailk,    one-half   cup  of  sugar,    nutmeg,    and    salt. 
Enough  for  one  pie. 

CREAM  PIE. 
Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  a  rich  paste ;    beat  the  white 
of  an  egg,    add  one  pint  of  cream,    sugar   to   taste ;  beat    all 
together  well  but  not  whip  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla  and 
bake  as  a  custard  pie. 

APPLE  PIE  NO.  1. 
Pare   and  slice  enough  apples  to  fill  the  plate  or  plates ; 
add  one  cup  of  sugar  to  a  plate,    a  little   butter,    two   table- 
spoons of  water,    and  flavor  with  nutmeg,    cinnamon,    or  ex- 
tract of  lemon.     Bake  until  the  apples  are  soft. 
APPLE  PIE  NO,  2. 
Stew  enough  apples  for  four  pies,  four  eggs,    two -thirds 
of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,    a  tablespoon  of  extract 
of  lemon. 

BRAMBLES. 
One  coffee  cup  of  raisins  chopped  fine  with  one  lemon. 
Add  two  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one- 
fourth  cup  of  milk;  mix  thoroughly.  Have  pastry  cut  into 
squares  and  place  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  in  each  one. 
Moisten  the  edges  Avith  milk  to  prvent  running  out,  and  fold 
over.     This  will  make  eighteen. 

BANBERRIES. 
One  pound  of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs. 
Make  a  rich  crust,  out  out  with  saucer,  put  a  teaspoonful  on 
each,  double  up  like  a  turnover,  brush  over  with  milk  and 
bake.     This  makes  forty. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 
Pare  and  take  out  the  seeds  of  a  small  pumpkin,  stew  it 

Finest  line  of  Canned  Goods  in  tliis  section 


81 
dry  and  strain  through  a  colander ;  add   two    quarts  of  milk, 
three    eggs,    three   tablespoons   molasses,    and   some  sugar. 
Season  with  cinnamon,  ginger  and  salt. 

LEMON  PATTIES 

Line  small  pattie  pans  with  puff  paste  and  fill  with  the 
following  mixture  :  Three  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons.     Bake  lightly. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  one 
lemon,  juice  and  rind,  two  tablespoons  of  flour  or  cornstarch, 
one  cup  of  chopped  rhubarb,  a  little  salt.  Bake  with  two 
crusts. 

MINCE  MEAT  NO.  1. 

Five  pounds  of  meat,  two  pounds  of  suet,  two  pounds 
of  chopped  raisins,  one  pound  of  whole  raisins,  one  peck  of 
apples,  two  bowls  of  molasses,  one  bowl  of  vinegar,  four 
bowls  of  cider,  four  bowls  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cloves,  three  of  cassia,  three  of  allspice,  and  two  of  salt. 
Three  nutmegs,  citron,  currants  and  jelly  if  you  like. 

MINCE  MEAT  NO.  2. 
Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  beef,  two  of  suet,  seven  of 
apples,  three  and  one-half  of  raisins,  stoned,  one  of  citron 
and  one  of  currants,  one-half  ounce  of  mace,  one  of  clove, 
one  of  allspice,  one  of  cinnamon,  and  one-half  of  nutmeg, 
one  quart  of  cider,  one  pint  of  molasses,  two  pounds  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  salt.  Sometimes  a  little  change  from  the 
this  according  to  taste. 

MINCE  PIE  MEAT  NO.  3. 

Two  pounds  of  beef,  four  of  apples,  three  of  raisins,  two 
of  sugar ;  one  teaspoonful  of  clove  and  one  of  cinnamon, 
one-half  pound  of  citron,  one  quart  of  cider,  three  pints  of 
cranberries  chopped  fine,  one  pint  of  molasses,  a  little  butter 
when  the  pies  are  made. 

Headquarters  for  Dried  Fruits 


HOT  PUDDINGS 

BLUEBEKRY  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  of  sweet  inilk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  four  cups  of  floui*,  with 
one  teaspoon  of  soda  and  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  sift- 
ed through  it.  Stir  in  one  pint  of  berries  and  steam  one 
hour.     Serve  with  sauce. 

CREAM  PUDDING. 

Mix  with  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour 
and  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  three  eggs  to  a  froth,  and 
just  before  baking  add  one  cup  of  cream. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING  No.  1. 
Two-thirds  cup  of  Indian  meal,  one-third  cup  of  flour, 
mixed  together :  two- thirds  cup  of  molasses,  one  egg.  Beat 
the  egg  in  a  bowl  with  the  molasses  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
cassia,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  suet,  if  you  have,  if  not  a 
small  piece  of  butter ;  salt.  Let  ono  quart  of  milk  come  to  a 
boil,  leaving  one  pint  to  stir  in  with  the  egg,  molasses  and 
other  ingredients.  "When  the  irilk  comes  to  a  boil,stir  in  the 
meal  and  flour  gradually.  Let  it  stand  and  cool  before  you 
put  in  the  egg.  molasses,  etc.     Bake  four  hours. 

INDIAN  PUDDING  No.  2. 

One  quart  of  scalding  milk,  one  scant  cup  of  meal.     Stir 

the  meal  soft  with  the  molasses,    then  stir  into  scalding  milk 

a  little  Fait  and  cinnamon  and  meal.     Let  cook  a  few  minutes. 

Take  ofl"  stove  and  add  half  pint  cold  milk.     Bake  slowly  two 

hours. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING   No.  3. 

Scald  two  quarts  of  milk,  reserving  one  cupful  cold,eigbt 
tablespooufuls  Indian  meal,  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  mo- 
lasses, one  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and  salt. 
Take  from  the  stove  and  when  sufficiently  cool  add  the  cup 
of  milk,  two  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  of  stoned 
raisins.  Bake  three  or  four  hours  with  cover.  To  be  eaten 
hot  with  butter  or  cold  with  cream,  which  is  much  nicer. 

We  sell  all  popular  Fruit  Jars. 


83 
EOLY-POLY  PUDDING    FOR    BEREIES    OR   FRUIT. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  one  quart  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  butter  size  of  an  egg  ; 
cut  it  into  flour  ;  add  milk  and  soda.  Roll  it  one  inch  thick 
as  soft  as  you  can  have  it ;  spread  berries  or  fruit  over  this  ; 
sprinkle  with  sugar  :  roll  it  up  and  steam  one  hour.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

GINGERBREAD  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  three  cups  of 
pastry  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Mix  molasses,  butter  and  seasoning, 
dissolve  soda  in  milk,  add  to  the  mojasses,  then  add  flour, 
lastly  vinegar.  Bake  in  tin  pie  plates  if  an  inch  thick,  bake 
two  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Sauce  :     One  egg,  one-half  cuj)  powdered  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  vanilla,  three  tablespoo   s  of  milk.    Beat  white  of 
egg  stiff,  beat  in  the  sugar,  then  add  vanilla,  and  the  unbeat 
en  yolk  of  the  egg,  lastly  all  the  milk. 

CIRCASSIAN  PUDDING. 

Boil  six  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs  in  one  pint  of  milk. 
Stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar  and  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  gradually  the  well  beaten  whites  of  three 
eggs.  Flavor  wdth  vanilla,  pour  into  buttered  dish  and  bake 
in  slow  oven.     Serve  with  sauce  flavored  with  lemon  juice. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  large  quart  of  milk,  one  dozen  large  crackers  or 
fourteen  small  ones  soaked  in  the  milk  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  one  small  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  two  cups  of 
raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  six  eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace,  one  nutmeg,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses.  Steam  five  hours.  This 
pudding  will  keep  for  weeks. 

Mansfield's  Pure  Maple  Syrup  in  Cans  and  Bottles. 


84 
RICE  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  rice,  one  small  cup  molas- 
ses, one  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Bake  slowly  two  hour? 
or  until  the  rice  looks  red  like  Indian  meal. 

CRUMB  PUDDING 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  soft  bread  crumbs,  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  boil  milk  and  bread  ;  stir  until  smooth,then  cool. 
Add  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar 
beaten  together  ;  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  and  add  last.  Bake 
about  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Sauce:  One  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  small 
walnut .  cream  together,  and  mix  white  of  egg  enough  to 
make  hard  sauce.     Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  juice. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
melted  butter,  one  of  raisins,  half  a  cup  of  currants,  two  and 
a  half  cups  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda.  Mix  well.  Salt 
and  spice  to  taste  and  steam  two  hours. 

CRACKER    PUDDING. 

Six  crackers,  three  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  four 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  molasses,  nutmeg  and  salt,  one  quart 
of  milk  scalded  and  poured  over  this.  When  cool,  add  four 
eogs,  and  chopped  raisins.     Serve  with  sauce. 

ENGLISH  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cuj)  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  a  teaspoon  of  different  spices,  one  cup  of  chopj^ed  rai- 
sins, one-half  cvip  of  currants  and  citron.  Steam  two  or 
thi-ee  hours.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

BURNT  CUSTARD  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  a  two  quart  tin  pan  nearly  an  inch  deep 
with  damp  brown  sugar.  Melt  the  sugar  on  the  top  of  the 
stove,  warm  the  custard  and  pour  over  it  without  stirring. 
Bake  slowly.  When  cold  turn  out  bottom  up.  Add  a  little 
salt.     This  is  very  nice. 

Always  use  our  Pastry  Flour. 


85 
TUEK'S  CAPS. 

Two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour :  salt,  flavor 
to  taste.  Bake  in  cups  half  full.  To  be  served  hot  with 
sugar  and  cream. 

DELICIOUS  PUDDING. 

Thicken  one  pint  of  milk  with  one-half  cup  of  flour,  and 
simmer  ten  minutes.  Add  nearly  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  good 
half  cup  of  butter ;  stir  while  hot  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
When  half  cold  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  live  eggs  ;  when  en- 
tirely cold,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiif  froth.  Flavor 
with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  two-quart  dish  as  it  rises  a 
great  deal.  Place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  quick  oven  for 
half  an  hour.  Serve  with  hard  sauce  flavored  differently 
from  pudding. 

COTTAGE    PUDDING. 

One  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg, one 
tablespoonful  of  melted    butter,    one-half    teaspoon    of  soda, 
three  cups  of  flour,     uake  one-half  hour. 
LEMON    PUDDING. 

Soak  two  slices  of  stale  bread  in  cup  of  cold  water.  Mix 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  a  scant 
cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  pour  over  the 
bread.  Bake,  and  frost  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  one 
cup  of  sugar.     Brown  lightly. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  of  chopped  bread,  one-half  cup  of  chopped  su- 
et, one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  stoned  I'ai- 
sins,  one  cup  of  milk  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved 
in  it,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon,  a  little  nutmeg 
and  salt.     Boil  two  hours  in  a  double  boiler. 

Sauce:  One-half  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar 
beaten  to  a  cream ;  add  one  egg  well  beaten  and  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Put  in  a  bowl  and  set  in  the  top 
of  the  teakettle  until  it  thickens. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  of  chopped  apple, 
one-  half  cup  of  sugar  ;  cinnamon,  butter  and  salt.     Butter  a 

We  Warrant  All  Our  Goods 


pudding  dish,  and  spread  in  layers,  leaving  the  tojD  layer  of 
apple.  Cover  closely  with  a  plate  and  bake  one  hour.  Do 
not  remove  the  plate  until  it  has  been  out  of  the  oven  twen- 
ty minutes.     Serve  with  any  sauce. 

PLUM   PUDDING. 

Two  cups  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  mola-ses,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  all  kinds  of  spices, 
three  eggs.  White  of  one  for  cold  sauce.  Mix  in  flour  enough 
to  make  it*stiffer  than  molasses  gingerbread;  scant  cup  of 
buttermilk,  with  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Steam  four  hours. 
STEAMl  D  BATTER  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  soda.  Steam  in  cups  thirty 
minutes.  Can  put  any  kind  of  fruit  in  them.  Serve  with 
saiice. 

PUDDING    SAUCE. 

FOAM  SAUCE  No.  1. 

Beat  until  light  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  cup  of  butter; 
add  the  grated  rind  of  half  a   lemon,    and  j)Our  over  the  mix- 
ture one  cup  of  boiling  milk.       Let   it  stand  twenty  minutes. 
FOAM  SAUCE  No.  2. 

Scald  a  half  cup  of  milk.     While  scalding  beat  a  half  cuji 
of  sugar  and  one  egg  very  lightly,  then   pour   in  milk,  flavor 
and    et  over  steam  of  teakettle  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  two 
teaspoons  of  flour,  white  of  one  egg,  one-half  pint  of  boiling 
water.  Place  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens.    Flavor  to  taste. 

MOLASSES  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  two  large  spoons  of  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  vinegar ;  let  it  boil  up  once  or  twice,  and  then  thicken 
with  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flour  which  has  been  mixed  with  a 

We  always  sell  Revere  Granulated  Sugar 


87 
little  of  the  molasses  reserved.     Boil  about  ten  minutes;  take 
from  the  fire  and  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
FOAMING  SAUCE. 
Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stifi'froth,melt  a  teacup  of 
sugarin  alittle  water  and  let  it  come  toaboil;  stir  in  one  glass 
of  wine  and  then  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.      Serve  at  once. 
FRENCH  SAUCE. 
Cream   half  a  pound  of  butter,    and  stir  in  half  a  joound 
of   sugar.     Then   add   the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  gill  of  wine. 
Put  it  on   the   fire;    stir    till    it    sin.meis.       Flavor     with 
nutmeg. 

A  DELICIOUS    BROWN  SAUCE. 
One-half  pint  of  milk,    one  tablespoonful  of  butter,    two 
tablespoonfuls    of   sugar,    two   tablespoonfuls    of  flour,    and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses.     Boil  ten  minutes. 
WINE  SAUCE. 
One  and  a  half  cups  powdered  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
butter  ;    beat  to  a  stiff  cream ;    add  one  wineglass  of  wine  or 
vanilla  or  nutmeg  or  brandy  and  beaten  white  of  an  egg. 

Families   have    perfect    freedom    to    choose    what   sort   of 

Preserves  they  will  eat  ;     they  can  buy  tons  of  jelly  and 

preserves  for  10  cts.,  per  pound,  if  they  like  that  sort, 

or  they  can  buy 


nmm 


Guaranteed  to   be   made   from    Selected   Fruits,  Granulated 
Sugai",  with  no  sort  of  adulteration. 


Our  advice  is  whether  you  have  10  cents  or  $10  to  spend, 

buy  the  BEST  as  far  as  your  money  goes,  and  then  eat 

plain  bread  and  butter. 

Cheap  Luxuries  are  Not  Desirable* 

Always  a  large  variety  at 

W.  H.   Mansfield    &   Co.,   Putnam. 


lOSTON 


LADIES  ! 

Will  you  kindly  try  tlie 


* 


IRYSTAL  # 

iCLATINE}  ? 


It  is  double  the  strength  of  any  other,    is  tasteless,  odorless, 

and  makes  the  most   transparent   jelly,    and  it  costs  you 

less  than  any  other.  Read  what  Prof.  Sharples,State 

Assayer  of  Massachusetts,  says  of  it. 


[Letter] 
S.  P.  Sharpies,  State  Assay er,  18  Broad  St. 

Boston,  Jan.  9,  1890. 
Messrs.  John  A.  Andrews  &  Co.: 

Gentlemen — I  have  made  a  careful  examination  of  the 
four  sampltjs  of  gelatine  submitted  to  me  in  unbroken  packa. 
ges.     These  were  mai'ked  : 

Boston  Crystal  Gelatine. 
Nelson's  Improved  Brilliant  Gelatine. 
James  Chahners'  Sous'  Transparent  Gelatine. 
Cox's  Patent  Refined  Sparkling  Gelatine. 
As  a  result  of  this  analysis,  I  find    that  the  Boston  Crys- 
tal Gelatine  is  superior  to  all  the  others, in  that  it  is  absolute- 
ly free  from  taste  and  odor,  and    that   it  makes  a  more  trans- 
parent jelly.     It  yields  nearly  double  the  amoant  of  jelly  that 
the  same  weight  of  Cox's  will  produce,  and  considerably  more 
than  an  equal  weight  of  either  of  the  others. 
Respectfully, 

(Signed,  S.  P.  Sharple:;. 

For  sale  by  W.  H.  Mansfield  &  Co. 


I 


COLD  PUDDINGS. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one-half  box  of  gelatine,  one  square  of 
chocolate.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  it;  set  the  dish  of  milk  in  hot  water  and  let  it  boil,  dis- 
solving the  chocolate  in  it,  add  gelatine  and  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes  before  pouring  into  the  mould.  Better  if  made  the 
day  before  using. 

COLD  BKEAD  PUDDING. 

Cut  in  thin  slices  a  small  loaf  of  stale  bread  ;  wash  and 
pick  one  pint  of  currants  ;  butter  the  slices  of  bread.  Put  a 
layer  of  bread  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  mould  ;  sprinkle 
with  the  currants  ;  jout  in  more  bread  and  crumbs  until  all  is 
used.  Beat  four  eggs  and  a  half  cup  of  sugar  together,  with 
one  pint  of  milk  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg ;  pour  over  the 
bread  ;  let  stand  half  an  hour  until  brown  ;  set  away  to  cool 
and  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

RASPBERRY  CREAM  ICE. 

One  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  pound  of  sug- 
ar, one  lemon,  one  pound  of  raspberries.  Mash  the  raspber- 
ries, and  mix  all  the  ingredients  together,  and  strain  into  a 
freezer.     Serve  with  wafers  or  sponge  cake  when  frozen. 


Bananas  sliced  with  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  over 
them  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  make  a  good  dessert.  Stand 
on  ice  one  hour  before  used. 

VANILLA  CREAM. 

One  pint  of  sugar,  one  of  water,  three  pints  of  cream  not 
too  rich,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  one  large  tablespoonful  of 
vanilla  extract.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  twen. 
ty-five  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  one-fourth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Place  the  basin  of  boiling  syrup  in 
another  of  boiling  water.  Stir  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  into  the 
syrup,  and  beat  rapidly  for  three  minutes.  Take  the  basin 
from  the  fire,  place  it  in  a  pan  of  ice  water,  and  beat  until 
cold.     Add  the  vanilla  and  cream,  and  freeze. 

Use  Boston  Crystal  Gelatine. 


90 
CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM. 

Make  tlie  hot  mixture  as  for  vanilla.  Put  the  small  cup- 
ful of  sugar  in  a  small  frying  pan,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
the  sugar  turns  liquid  and  begins  to  smoke.  Turn  into  the 
boiling  mixture  and  put  way  to  cool.  When  cold  add  one 
quart  of  cream.  Strain  the  mixture  into  the  freezer  and 
freeze.  The  flavor  of  this  cream  can  be  varied  by  browning 
the  sugar  more  or  less. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 

One  pint  of  milk,  put  on  in  double  boiler  and  dissolve  in 
it  half  a  box  of  gelatine  ;  when  the  gelatine  is  fully  dissolved 
add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten,  and  five  tablespoons  of 
sugar.  When  it  is  as  thick  as  custard,  take  from  the  stove 
and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  vanilla.  Put 
in  mould  to  cool. 

PHILADELPHIA  ICE  CREAM. 

Take  three  pints  of  milk,  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in 
two  tablespoons  of  flour  mixed  in  cold  milk.  Cook  twenty 
minutes.  When  cold  add  one  quart  of  cream,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sugar,  vanilla  and  a  little  salt. 

PEACH  PUDDING. 

One-half  box  of  gelatiue  soaked  in  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  it.  Make  a  custard  of  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar  ;  let  it  cool  and  add  gelatine.  When  almost 
cold  add  one  pint  of  peaches,  either  fresh  or  canned,  pour  in- 
to a  mould.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  the 
peach  juice.      Raspberries  may   be  used  in  place  of  peaches. 

CORN  STARCH  PUDDING. 

One  large  pint  of  boiling  water,  whites  of  three  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth,  a  little  salt,three  tablespoons  of  corn  starch 
mixed  in  a  little  water :  mix  starch  in  first,  then  eggs,  cook  a 
few  minutes,  beating  steadily. 

Sauce:  Yolks  of  three  eggs,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  of  buiter,  vanilla,  a 
little  flour  for  thickening.       Boil  milk,  beat  the  rest  and  add. 

Be  Careful  about  Flavoring  Extracts. 


91 
APPLE   SNOW  PUDDING. 

One  large  baked  apple  (tart),  white  of  one  egg,  one  cup 
of  sugar,     Beat  all  together  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Sauce :       One  cup  of  milk  (boiling),  add  to  it  the  yolk  of 
one  egg,  two  or  three  tablespoons    of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of 
flour.     Cook  until  thick.     After  cooling,  flavor  to  taste. 
FRUIT  JELLY. 

To  one  ounce  package  of  Boston  Crystal  Gelatine  add 
one  pint  of  cold  water,  place  over  the  tea  kettle  or  any  warm 
place.  To  one  tea  cup  of  dried  apricots,  or  other  fruit,  put 
one  quart  of  cold  water  and  place  on  back  of  the  stove  to 
slowly  swell.  When  the  fruit  is  quite  soft,  let  it  boil  slowly 
a  few  minutes  (never  stir  it  and  the  jelly  wiJl  be  clear),  add 
two  cups  of  sugar  ;  boil  two  minutes,  and  carefully  skim  the 
fruit  into  a  mould.  Put  the  gelatine  into  the  syrup,  and  just 
let  it  boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  fruit.  When  cold  serve  with 
cream  and  sugar. 

JUDGE  PETERS'  PUDDING. 

Three-quarters  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  two  lemons,  two 
oranges,  six  figs,  nine  dates,  two  bananas,  ten  nuts  of  any 
kind ;  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  one-half  pint  of  cold  water  for 
one  hour;  add  then  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water,  the  juice 
of  two  lemons,  and  two  cups  of  sugar.  Strain  and  let  it  stand 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Stir  into  this  all  the  fruit  cut  into 
small  pieces,  and  let  it  harden.  Pour  into  a  mould. 
JELLIED  PRUNES. 

Use  one  pint  of  prunes,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  one- 
half  a  package  of  gelatine,  oue-half  pint  of  wine  and  one  of 
sugar.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  one  gill  of  the  water  for  two 
hours ;  wash  the  prunes  in  two  waters,  rubbing  them  well  be- 
tween the  hands  ;  put  in  a  stewpan  with  five  gills  of  water 
and  cook  slowly  for  one  hour  ;  take  up  the  prunes  and  re- 
move the  stones  ;  return  the  fruit  to  the  water  in  the  stewpan 
and  let  it  boil  up  ;  add  the  gelatine  and  take  from  the  fire, 
stir  until  gelatine  is  dissolved,  then  add  sugar  and  wine. 
Place  the  stewpan  in  a  pan  of  ice  water  and  stir  the  prepara- 
tioii  until  it  begins  to  thicken.     Pour  into  a  mould  and  set  in 

Headquarters  for  Prunes,  Figs,  &c. 


92 

a  cool  place  to  liarden.      It   should  staad  four  or  five  hours. 
Served  with  soft  custard  or  whipped  cream. 
PEACH   CREAM. 

One  pint  of  cream,  whipped,  add  sugar  to  taste,  one-half 
can  of  peaches  cut  up  and  stirred  into  the  cream.  Add  one- 
third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water. 
Place  in  mould  to  harden. 

FROZEN  PEACHES. 

One  dozen  large  ripe  peaches,  one  cup  cf  water,  one  of 
sugar,  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  stiff;  cut  the  peaches 
into  small  bits  and  stir  down  from  the  sides  frequently  while 
freezing. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Cover  three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  (over  night)  with 
cold  water.  In  the  morning  pour  off  the  water,  and  put  into 
one  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  over  the  fire.  Stir  into 
it  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  two-thiids  of  a  cup  or  sugar 
and  a  little  salt.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  When  cool 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  drop  over  the  top ;  sprinkle  over  a  little  sugar. 
Put  in  the  oven  and  brown  lightly. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
one  quaf't  of  milk,  one-half  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  one-half 
pint  of  milk  one  hour;  eight  oranges.  Boil  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  milk.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  a  little 
cold  milk  to  prevent  it  curdling,  a  little  salt,  pour  on  boiling 
milk.  In  another  kettle  add  gelatine  and  set  on  fire,  stirring 
until  it  boils,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Pare  and  divide  oranges 
and  pour  custard  over  them.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  add  six 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  flaver  with  one  teaspoon  of  orange 
juice.     Pour  this  over  the  top  and  serve. 

GELATINP:  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  milk.  S>iparate  whites  and  yelks  of  four 
eggs  ;  with  the  yolks  make  a  boiled  custard.  Soak  one- third 
of  a  box  of  gelatine  a  few    minutes    in    cold  water,    then  add 

We  always  carry  a  choice  selection  of  Fruits 


93 

three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water  ;  when    the    custard 

has  cooled,  add  the  gelatine  water,  whites  of  four  eggs.    Stir 

well  together.     Flavor  with  vanilla.     Cool  in  a  mould. 

PINEAPPLE  SPONGE. 

One  fre&h  pineapple  or  a  pint  and  a  half  of  the  fruit, 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  package  of  gelatine,  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  water,  the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Soak  the 
gelatine  two  hours  in  a  cupful  of  the  water ;  chop  the  pine 
apple  fine,  put  it  and  the  juice  in  a  tin  with  the  sugar  and 
remainder  of  water.  Simmer  ten  minutes,  add  the  gelatine, 
take  from  the  fire  and  when  partially  cooled,  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff;  beat  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken ;  pour  into  a  mould  and  set  away  to  harden.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 

Mix  together  one  pint  of  orange  juice,  the  grated  yellow 
rind  of  two  oranges  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Let  this 
mixture  stand  one  hour,  strain  and  freeze,  or  the  sugar  and 
water  may  be  boiled  together  for  twenty  minutes,the  strained 
fruit  juice  added  to  this,  cool  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Sherbet  is  made  the  same  way,  using  lemons  in 
place  of  oranges 

FA.NCY  WAY  OF  SERVING  THE  SHERBET. 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  the  orange  of  lemon,  remove 
the  inside  with  a  spoon,  and  use  for  the  sherbet.  Into  this 
shell  put  the  frozen  sherbet,  and  serve  on  a  plate  with  a 
doily  under  it. 

JELLIED  APPLES. 

Use  two  quarts  of  tart  apples,  peeled,  quartered  and 
cored ;  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  lemon,  half  a  package  of 
gelatine,  and  one  pint  and  a  half  of  water.  Soak  the  gela- 
tine in  half  a  cupful  of  water  for  two  hours.  Put  the  sugar, 
lemon  juice  and  the  remainder  of  the  water  on  the  stove,  and 
boil  rapidly  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  as  many  apples  as 
may  be  cooked  without  crowding,  cook  gently  until  so  ten- 
der   they  can   be  pierced    with  a  broom  straw,    then  take  up 

Don't  forget  Victor  Flour 


94 
with  a  skimmer  and  spread  on  a  platter ;  put  more  apples 
into  a  sttwjDan,  and  contnuie  cooking  until  all  are  done. 
Wlien  the  last  of  the  fruit  has  been  taken  up,  remove  the 
pan  from  the  fire  and  put  the  gelatine  into  it ;  stir  until  the 
gelatine  is  dissolved,  then  place  the  stewpan  in  a  basin  con- 
taining ice  water,  stir  until  cool.  Put  in  the  apples,  mix, 
turn  into  a  mould  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream  or  soft  custard. 

LEMON  CKE.iM  PUDDING. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar ;  add  the  j  uice  and  grate  rind  of  one  large  lemon,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water.  Place  a  tin  containing  the 
above  within  a  spider  of  boiling  water,  simmer  till  it  thick- 
ens, then  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  the 
four  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  two  tablespoonfufs  of  sugar. 
Eat  cold. 

AMHERST  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  mill:,  one  cup  chopped 
raisins,  one  cup  of  suet  or  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter 
one  teaspoonf ul  of  all  kinds  of  spices,  one  teaspoonful  soda ; 
flour  sufficient  for  a  tolerablely  stiff  batter,  about  three  and 
one-half  cups. 

KINGSLEY  PUDDING 

Three  pints  of  milk,  yolks  of  four  e^g^,  one-half  box  of 
gelatine,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  boil  like  a  custard.  As 
it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beat- 
en to  a  froth  and  stir  while  cooling.  Before  it  thickens  put 
in  a  dozen  each  of  macaroons  and  cocoanut  drops  and  let  it 
harden.  Eat  cold.  This  makes  a  large  pud  ling 
SNOW  PUDDING. 

To  one  small  box  of  Boston  Crystal  Gelatine,  add  one- 
half  cuj)  cold  water,  soak  half  an  hour,  then  add  one  cup  of 
boiling  water  to  dissolve  gelatine,  juice  of  three  lemons,  and 
one  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  stiff,  an.l 
when  the  gelatine  is  cold  not  stiff,  pour  it  into  the  egg,  and 
beat  it  till  it  will    just    drop   from  a  spoon,    then    pour    in  a 

Largest  Variety  of  F reserves 


95 
mould.     Set  away   to  cool.     The   custard   poured   over  it  in 
serving  is  made  as  follows  :     One  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  four 
eggs,    two    tablespoons  of  sugar,    grated   rind  of  one  lemon. 
Boil  five  minutes. 

WINE  JELLY 

To  one  package  of  gelatine  add  one  pint  of  cold  water ; 
let  it  stand  ten  minutes  to  soak,  with  sticks  of  cinnamon  in  it. 
One  pint  of  sugar  and  nearly  one  cup  of  wine,  then  pour  in 
two  pints  and  one-half  of  boiling  water ;  put  over  the  fire 
and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  take  off  and  strain,  adding  a  cup 
more  of  wine  and  juice  of  a  lemon  or  two. 
LEMON  JELLY. 

Pour  one  quart  of  boiling  water  over  three-quarters  of 
a  bos  of  gelatine ;  let  it  dissolve,  then  add  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Strain  into 
mould. 

OEANGE  JELLY. 

Dissolve  one-half  box  of  gelatire  in  one  cup  of  cold  wa- 
ter for  ten  minutes,  add  two  cups  of  boiling  water,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  ;^'uice  of  six  oranges  and  two  lemons.  Strain  into 
moulds. 

CH:VRLOTTE  RUSSE  NO.  1. 

Line  a  glass  dish  with  slices  of  any  plain  cake  (sponge 
cake  is  best).  Make  a  custard  as  follows  :  A  pint  of  rich 
milk,  yolk  of  two  eggs  and  one  whole  one,  a  half  cup  of  su- 
gar, a  pinch  of  salt.  Boil,  and  flavor  with  vanilla ;  when 
cool,  pour  over  the  sliced  cake.  Just  before  serving  beat 
the  whites  previously  reserved ;  when  stiff  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla ;  spread  over 
the  custard.  Lastly  cut  small  squares  of  jelly  and  drop  them 
on  the  white  frosting. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  NO.  2. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine,  one  coffee  cup  of  milk,  whites 
of  two  eggs,  small  half  cup  of  sugar,  half  pint  of  thick  cream. 
Soak  the  geli  tine  in  a  litte  cold  water,  scald  the  milk  and 
pour  over  it,  strain,  then  add  the  sugar  and  eggs  beaten  to  a 

Crystal  Gelatine,  cheapest  and  best 


96 
sti£f  frotb.     When  cool  add  the  cream  beaten  to  a  stiff  frotb. 
Flavor  witb  vanilla.      Line  tbe  mould  witb  sponge  cake,    fill 
and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

CREAM  CUSTARD. 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk  and  pour  into  it  tbe  following 
mixture,  stirring  constantly,  till  tbickened  :  Yolks  of  four 
eggs,  beaten  witb  two-tbirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  tbree 
teaspoonfuls  of  flour.  Flavor  witb  vanilla.  Beat  tbe  wbites 
witb  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  a  stiff  frotb,  tben  pour  tbe 
custard  into  a  pudding  disb.  Dip  tbe  frosting  out  witb  a 
tablespoon  snd  put  on  tbe  top ;  set  in  tbe  oven  and  brown, 
tben  put  one  teaspoonful  of  jelly  in  tbe  top  of  eacb  spoonful 
of  frosting. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

Boil  one-balf  cup  of  rice  in  one  quart  of  milk  until  soft — 
about  one  bour — and  tben  add  tbe  yolks  of  tbree  eggs  beat- 
en ligbt  witb  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.     Frost  witb  wbites. 

ORANGE    FLOAT. 

Mix  one  quart  of  water,  tbe  juice  and  pulp  of  two  lem- 
ons, and  one  coffee  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  sufficiently  to  dis- 
solve tbe  sugar  and  tben  strain  and  again  bring  to  a  boil. 
Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  mixed  in  a  little  cold 
water,  stir  and  boil  fifteen  minuies  ;  when  cool,  pour  it  over 
four  or  five  slices  of  oranges ;  on  tbe  top  spread  tbe  beaten 
wbites  of  tbree  eggs  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 
Eat  with  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM 

One  quart  of  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugcir,yo]ks 
of  three  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  cake  of  chocolate,  one-half 
package  of  gelatine.  Put  the  gelatine  into  cold  milk  and 
let  it  stand  one  hour.  Cook  same  as  custard.  Put  the  eggs 
and  sugar  in  last  well  beaten  together.  Cook  ten  mmutes. 
Frost  witb  whites. 

Very  finest  Butter  always  in  Stock 


We  lead  the  trade  on 


w 


From  Medium  to  High  Grades. 

We  always  buy  from   the    Importers    and   get  Best 
Choice,  and  sell  same  on  their  merits. 


NO  PEESENTS  ! 

Remember,  when  you  get  a  present  with  your 
tea,  you  have  to  pay  for  it  every  time,  and  pretty 
dearly,  too.  These  prize  tea  peddlers  are  not  pub- 
lic benefactors  ;  they  must  get  their  profit,  and  the 
firm  supplying  also.  How  ?  By  making  you  pay 
them  from  25  to  50  per  cent,  more  than  our  prices 
would  be  for  same  grade  of  goods,  if  we  should 
lower  ourselves  enough  to  handle  such  trash. 


Don't  take  our  word  for  above,    but    compare 
ours  with  the  prize  tea,  and  you  cannot  fail   to    see 


the  great  difference. 


W.  H.  MANSFIELD  &  CO. 


HEADQUARTERS  FOR 


Consisting  of 

Table  and  Cooking 

Raisins, 

Currants, 

Citron., 

Prunes,   Figs,    Dates, 

Of  California,  Sultana,  Malaga,  Valencia,  and 
Turkey  Varieties. 

Very  Finest  Brands  obtainable  at 

W,  H,  MANSFIELD  &  GO'S 


CANDY. 


VANILLA  CARAMELS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  tartar.  Boil  until  hard.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla, but  do  not  stir ;  pour  into  pan  and  when  cool  cut  into 
small  squares. 

MOLASSES   CANDY. 

Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.     Stir 

occasionally  while  boiling  ;  before  taking  from  the  stove  add 

butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,   and   one-third   teaspoonful  of 

soda.     Pour  into  buttered  tins  and  when  cool  enough  pull  it. 

WHITE    CARAMELS. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  butter   size  of  an  egg, 
one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.     Boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes.      Beat 
until  cool  enough  to  pour  over  the  chocolate. 
WALNUT  CARAMELS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  one  pound  of  English  walnuts  cut  in  slices.  Boil  about 
ten  minutes. 

LAKE  KISSES. 

Twu  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  two  table- 
spoonfula  of  vinegar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  a  pinch  of  cream 
tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Do  not  stir  at  all,  and 
boil  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water.  When  cool  enough, 
stretch  and  cut  with  scissors  in  small  pieces. 
BUTTER  SCOTCH  No.  1. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  four  tablespoons  molasses,  four  ta- 
blespoons water,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar.  Cook  until  it  har- 
dens, then  add  one-half  cup  of  butter.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Pour  into  buttered  tins  and  cut  in  squares. 

All  Kinds  of  Nuts,  Figs  and  Dates. 


100 
BUTTEK  SCOTCH  No.  2. 
Two  cvips  of  sugar,a  cup  of  butter  half  cup  of  vinegar,l-4 
cup  of  molasses.  Boil  till  very  thick  and  brittle,  then  one 
teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  pour  very  thin  on  buttered  tins.  Very 
nice  peanut  taflfy  can  be  made  from  this  by  omitting  the  va- 
nilla and  adding  two  quarts  peanuts. 

CHOCOLATE  CAEAMELS  No.  1. 
Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  molasse.  one-half  cup 
of  milk,  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  not  quite  two  squares 
of  chocolate.  Boil  about  ten  minutes,  then  take  from  the 
stove  and  beat  until  it  sugars  around  the  edge  of  the  dish. 
Pour  in  pans  and  cool. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS  No.  2. 
Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  scant  cup    of   molasses,  one-half 
cup  of  milk.     Boil  fifteen  minutes ;    when  nearly  done  stir  in 
four  squares  of  chocolate  and  a  piece  of  butter.     Flavor  with 
vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS  No.  3. 
Two  cups  of  sugar,two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk,two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  molasses,  butter    size  of   an   egg,    two  squares  of 
chocolate,  two  teaspoons    of   vanilla.      Cook    slowly   twenty 
minutes,  then  beat  till  cool. 

PEPPERMINTS. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  and  one-half  cuj)  of  milk. 
Boil  four  minutes,  take  from  the  fire  and  add  one  teaspoon  of 
peppermint.  Beat  steadily  till  it  will  harden  upon  paraffine 
paper  without  running.  Drop  on,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  as 
quickly  as  possible.  If  the  last  sugars  in  the  saucepan  be- 
fore it  can  be  used,  add  milk  and  pat  upon  the  stove  again 
for  a  few  minutes. 

CREAM   CANDY. 

One  pound  of  w^hite  sugar,  one  wineglassful  of  vinegar, 
one  tumbler  of  water,  vanilla  :  boil  half  an  hour.  Pull  if  you 
like. 

Use  Rockwood's  Chocolate. 


DRINKS. 


PICNIC  COFFEE. 

One  pound  coffee,  one-fourtti  Mocha  and  three-fourths 
Java,  two  eggs,  shell  and  all,  mixed  with  the  dry  coffee.  Stir 
well  with  a  spoon,  then  add  two  gallons  of  cold  water.  Let 
it  cook  slowly  only  boiling  up  once  or  twice,  then  put  it  on 
the  back  of  the  stove.  Put  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  pour 
out  a  little  to  see  that  the  nozzle  is  not  filled  with  grounds. 
CHOCOLATE. 

Tablespoonful  of  chocolate  for  each  person.  Pour  ou 
boiling  water  and  allow  it  to  thicken  ;  milk  enough  to  cool ; 
then  stir  in  a  well  beaten  egg  ;  sugar  to  taste.  Add  milk  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes  ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
and  pour  over  when  ready  to  serve. 

TEA. 
One  teaspoonful  of  tea  for  each  person  ;  add  boiling  wa- 
ter, do  not  boil,  only  steep  it.      It    can    be  made  on  the  table 
the  same  way. 

COCOA. 

Put  one-half  teaspoon  of  Bensdorp's  soluble  cocoa  in  a 
breakfast  cup  with  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  mix,  and  pour  on  a 
little  boiling  water.  Then  fill  cup  with  scalded  milk  and 
boiling  water. 

COCOA  No.  2, 

One  teaspoonful  of  Rockwood's  (or  any  breakfast  cocoa), 
mixed  well  with  tablespoonful    of   boiling  water  ;  add  equal 
quantities  scalded  milk  and  water.      Boil   three  minutes,  and 
sweeten  to  taste.     One  teaspoon  cocoa  to  a  cup. 
LEMONADE. 

One  pound  of  sugar  to  one  dozen  lemons,  three  oranges, 
large  piece  of  ice,  one  glass  of  water  to  a  lemon.  One  bottle 
of  Apollinaris  water  or  a  siphon  of  Vichy  in  place  of  water 
improves  it. 

Apollinaris  and  Ross'  Ginger  Ale. 


PICKLES 


SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLE 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  six  onions  sliced,  sprinkle 
oyer  this  one  cup  of  salt  over  night.  In  morning  drain  off 
water,  then  -edd  two  quarts  of  water,  one  quart  of  vinegar  ; 
boil  fifteen  minutes, then  drain  off  this  water  and  throw  away. 
Take  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  su^ar,  two  table- 
spoons cloves,  two  of  ginger,  two  of  mustard,  two  of  cinna- 
mon, one-quarter  teaspoon  caj^enne  pepper  ;  put  spice  in  a 
bag.     Cook  fifteen  minutes. 

TOMATO  KETCHUP  No.  1. 

Twelve  large  tomatoes,  ripe,  six  onions,  three  peppers, 
two  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  salt  to 
taste.  Chop  onions  and  peppers  and  cook  slowly  two  hours. 
Bottle  while  hot. 

TOMATO  KETCHUP  No.  2. 
Eight  quarts  strained  tomatoes,  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt,  four  tablespoonfvils  cf  black  pepper,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  ta- 
blespoonful  of  ginger,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one-half  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  one  tumbler  of  brandy.  Boil  very  gently  until 
the  quantity  is  reduced  one-half.     Put  into  bottles. 

PICKLED  PEARS. 

Eight  pounds  of  pears   four  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one 
ounce  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  quart  of  vinegar.       Steam 
the  pears  until  soft,  stick  a  few  cloves  iu  each  ;    boil  the  sug 
ar,  vinegar  and  spice  and  pour  over    the  fruit   hot.      Repeat 
this  process  three  times.   Let  them  stand  five  days  each  time. 

Buy  Your  Vinegar  and  Spices  of  Us 


103 
CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

The  small,  long  kind  are  best  for  pickles,  and  those  but 
half-grown  are  nicer  than  the  full  grown.  Let  them  be  fresh- 
Jy  gathered,  ijull  off  the  blossom,  but  do  not  rub  them.  Pour 
over  them  a  strong  brine  boiling  hot,  cover  closely,  and  let 
them  stand  all  night.  Li  the  morning  drain  on  a  sieve,  and 
dry  them  in  a  cloth.  To  each  quart  of  cider  vinegar  put  one- 
half  ounce  of  whole  black  pepper,  the  same  of  ginger  and  all- 
spice, and  one  ounce  of  mustard  seed, — add  onions  if  agreea- 
ble. "When  this  pickled  vinegar  boils  up,  throw  in  the  cu- 
cumbers, and  make  them  boil  as  quiqkly  as  possible  for  three 
or  four  minutes — no  longer.  Put  them  in  a  jar  with  the  boil- 
ing vinegar  and  cover  closely.  Made  in  this  way  your  pick- 
les will  be  tender,  crisp  and  green.  If  the  color  is  not  quite 
clear  enough,  boil  the  vinegar  over  the  next  day,  then  put  on 
the  cucumbers  and  cover  perfectly  tight. 

CHUTNEY  S:iUCE. 

Four  pounds  of  sliced  apples,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  stoned  raisins,  one  cvip  of 
currants,  one  cup  of  sliced  citron,  four  ounces  of  pej)pers, 
four  ounces  of  garlic,  pour,ded,  two  ounces  of  salt,  cook  until 
soft.     Whei.  cold,  bottle. 

SPICED    GRAPES. 

Squeeze  the  pulp  of  the  grapes  out  of  the  skins.  Cook 
the  pulp  a  few  m^inutes  until  you  can  press  it  all  through  a 
sieve.  Reject  the  seeds.  Add  a  little  water  to  the  skins  and 
cook  till  they  are  quite  tender.  Then  make  a  syrup  of  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  of  cin- 
namon, two  tablespoons  of  c^.ove  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Add  the  grapes  (this  quantity  is  for  six  pounds),  and  boil  fif- 
teen minutes. 


CHILI  SAUCE  No.  1. 

Nine  large,  ripe  tomatoes ;  scald,  peel  and  chop  with  one 
pepper  and  one  large  onion.' '  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

Tomatoes,  Peppers,  Onions  in  the  Season 


1Q4 
two  of  sugar  and  one  each  of  ginger,  cloves,  allspice  and  cin- 
namon, one  nutmeg,  two  small  cups   of   vinegar.      Stew  one 
hour  and  bottle  while  hot. 

CHILI  SAUCE  No.  2. 
Twelve  ripe  tomatoes,  two    onions,    four  peppers  (or  one 
tablespoon  of  cayenne),  four  cups  of   vinegar,  one-half  cup  of 
sugar.     Chop  onions,  tomatoes  and   peppers   fine   (fijst  skin 
the  tomatoes.     Boil  one  hour. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 
Five  pounds  of  ripe  currants,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  one  pint  of 
vinegar.     Boil  three  hours  until  quite  thick. 
PICKLED  FIGS. 
Two  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  pint    of   vinegar,  one  ounce 
of  cinnamon,  one  half  ounce  of  cloves.     Cook  thoroughly  and 
pour  over  the  figs  while  hot.      Let   stand  twenty-four  hours, 
pour  off  and  cook  over  into  a  syrup:    Repeat  this  six  or  eight 
times. 

CUCUMBER  KETCHUP. 
Grate  one  dozen  large  cucumbers, without  paring,squeeze 
and  to  this  pulp  add  two  small  onions,  chopped ;    two  quarts 
of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

8tcpy  DepaHmcnf 

In  our  Store  contains  a  finer  assortment  than  any 
house  outside  of  the  cities.  We  aim  to  carry  the 
best  grades,  and  as  many  brands  of  same,  as  our 
trade  will  allow. 

We  do  not  advertise  to  sell  our  goods  lower 
than  any  house  in  the  State,  but  we  do  say  that  no 
house  carries  any  better  goods  in  F^astern  Connec- 
ticut. 

Then  again  we  guarantee  all  goods,  and  thus  a 
customer  runs  no  risk  on  poor  goods. 

If  you  are  not  our  customer,  become  so  at  once, 
and  it  will  be  appreciated  by 

W.  H.  iNSFIELD  &  CO. 


USEFUL  HINTS. 

To  prevent  sleeplessness  after  drinking  co£fee  at  night : 
Eat  a  pickle  or  lemon  to  counteract  the  effect. 

To  remove  ink  from  woolen  fabrics,  put  on  sugar  imme- 
diately and  let  it  absorb  all  it  will,  then  brush  off  and  put  on 
more  sugar  until  all  the  ink  is  absorbed. 

To  take  out  iron  stains,  put  on  lemon  juice  and  salt  and 
lay  in  the  sun. 

There  is  scarcely  any  ache  to  which  children  are  subject 
so  bad  to  bear  as  the  earache.  But  there  is  a  remedy  never 
known  to  fail.  Take  a  bit  of  cotton  batting,  put  upon  it  a 
pinch  of  black  pepper,  gather  it  up  and  tie  it,  dip  in  sweet  oil 
and  insert  into  the  ear.  Put  a  flannel  bandage  over  the  head 
to  keep  it  warm.     It  will  give  immediate  relief. 

If  onions  are  sliced  and  kept  in  a  sick  room  they  will  ab- 
sorb all  the  atmospheric  poison.  They  should  be  changed 
every  hour.  In  the  room  of  a  small-pox  patient  they  blister 
and  decompose  very  rapidly,  but  will  prevent  the  spread  of 
the  disease.  Their  application  has  also  proved  effectual  in 
the  case  of  snake  bites. 

A  Powerful  Poultice. — Wounds  made  by  rusty  tools  or 
nails,  or  by  the  teeth  of  dogs  and  ether  animals,  are  not  only 
very  painful  but  generally  quite  dangerous.  To  allay  the 
pain,  extract  the  poison  and  hasten  the  healing  process,  there 
is  nothing  that  we  know  of  so  wonderfully  effective  as  raw, 
fat  salt  salt  pork  and  onions,  equal  parts,  chopped  up  togeth- 
er and  applied  in  a  thick  layer  either  directly  to  the  wound 
or  first  folded  into  a  single  layer  of  linen.  Leave  on  until 
healed.  Even  a  slice  of  raw  salt  pork,  tied  over  the  wound 
made  by  a  rusty  nail,  will  draw  the  inflammation  all  out,  ren- 
der the  flesh  clear  white,  and  heal  up  the  injurj'  quicker  than 
any  drug,  known  to  us,  will  do  it.  This  is  the  best  use  that 
can  be  made  of  fat  pork,  as  we  do  not  believe  in  its  free  in- 
ternal application,  especially  in  summer. 

Stains  upon  Lixen  and  Cotton. — In  nearly  all  cases,  stains 
may  be  removed  by  means  of  chloride   of   lime,    which    sub- 

Remember  Victor  Flour. 


106 
stance  is  sufficiently  common  to  be  had  of  every  druggist. 
It  is  applied  thus :  Dissolve  about  two  teaspoonf uls  of  the 
chloride  of  lime  in  a  quart  of  water;  take  another  portion  of 
water  and  make  it  perceptibly  sour  by  the  addition  of  white 
vinegar — the  ordinary  brown  vinegar  will  do  nearly  as  well ; 
now  well  wet  the  stained  or  discolored  articles  with  the  sour 
water,  then  put  them  into  the  solution  of  the  chloride  of 
lime ;  perfect  bleaching  will  then  take  place  in  f lom  ten  to 
twentv  minutes ;  in  some  instances  the  operation  must  be  re- 
peated once  or  twice  ;  finally,  well  rinse  in  plenty  of  clean 
water.  The  omission  of  the  vinegar  is  the  chief  reason  why 
so  many  persons  fail  in  their  attempts  to  bleach  w^th  chlor- 
ide of  lime. 

Cream  of  tartar  rubbed  upon  soiled  white  kid  gloves 
cleanses  them  well. 

Musty  bottles  or  jars  may  be  sweetened  with  lye  or  dis- 
solved soda.  Let  either  remain  in  them  a  short  time,  then 
dry  and  scald  them.  They  will  not  become  musty  if  a  little 
salt  be  kept  in  them. 

Relief  from  Burns. — To  obtain  quick  relief  from  burns, 
apply  a  layer  of  common  salt  and  saturate  it  with  laudanum. 
Hold  it  in  position  a  few  hours  with  a  simple  wrapper.  The 
smarting  disappears  almost  immediately,  and  the  sore  gets 
well  with  incredible  rapidity. 

Grease  from  Silk  and  Velvet. — Rub  the  spot  on  the  silk 
or  velvet  lightly  and  I'apidly  with  a  clean,  soft  cotton  rag 
dipped  in  ether.  Repeat  the  operation  if  necessary.  Finish 
with  a  clean,  dry  cloth.  Rub  lightly  and  rapidly,  or  else  a 
slight  stain  will  be  the  result.  We  have  known  grease  spots 
to  be  taken  out  of  the  most  delicate  colored  silks  in  the  way 
described. 

To  Wash  Blankets. — Have  an  abundance  of  hot  water  in 
which  borax  has  been  dissolved,  and  a  small  quantity  of  Old 
Reliable  soap — never  use  soap  with  rosin  in  it,  as  rosin  al- 
ways hardens  the  fibre  of  wool.  Put  the  ends  into  the  wash- 
er, and  then  put  in  the  blankets  after  all  the    dirt   has   been 

Use  Old  Reliable  Tomatoes. 


107 
removed,  wring  into  another  tub  of  hot  suds,  and  from  that 
wring  into  a  tub  of  hot  bluing  water ;  wring  from  this  and 
hang  at  once  in  the  open  air  to  dry.  If  the  water  is  abun- 
dant and  soft,  and  you  use  this  soap,  blankets  thus  washed 
will  not  shrink^and  will  be  as  soft  and  fleecy  as  when  they 
came  from  the  store. 

To  Relieve  a  Cough. — For  a  dry,  hacking  cough,  two  or 
three  times  a  day  take  a  little  pinch  of  salt,  let  it  dissolve 
slowly  on  the  tongue  and  swallow. 

Another :  Take  five  cents'  worth  of  pulverized  licorice 
extract  and  ground  flaxseed ;  mix  together,  put  a  little  in  a 
cup ;  add  strauied  honey  to  sweeten  well,  steep  in  hot  water 
till  licorice  is  dissolved.  Take  a  good  dose  of  it  as  often  as 
the  cough  is  troublesome.  It  is  a  sure,  safe,  speedy  relief. 
Try  it  once. 

For  sick  headache :  Two  teaspoonfuls  of  finely  pulver- 
ized charcoal  in  half  a  glass  of  water. 

To  Restore  Old  Crape. — Skimmed  milk  and  water,  with 
a  bit  of  glue  in  it,  made  scalding  hot,  is  excellent  to  restore 
old  rusty  black  Italian  crape.  If  clapped  and  pulled  dry,like 
muslin,  it  will  look  as  well  or  better  than  new. 

To  Clean  Flat  Irons. — Beeswax  and  salt  will  make  rusty 
flat  irons  as  clean  and  smooth  as  glass.  Tie  a  lump  of  wax 
in  a  rag  and  keep  it  for  that  purpose.  When  the  irons  are 
hot,  rub  them  first  with  the  wax  rag,  then  scour  them  with  a 
paper  or  cloth  sprinkled  with  salt. 

To  Clean  Black  Cashmere. — Wash  in  hot  suds,  with  a 
little  borax  in  the  water  ;  rinse  in  bluing  water — very  blue — 
and  iron  while  damp.  It  will  look  equal  to  new.  Or,  brush 
the  article  to  be  cleaned,  and  then  wash  in  clear,  cold  water, 
and  a  handful  of  common  washing  soda,  dissolved :  use  no 
soap  or  warm  water.     Iron  on  the  wrong  side  while  damp. 

To  Wash  Calico. — Make  flour  starch  as  for  ordinary 
starching,  being  sure  that  it  is  entirely  free  from  lumps. 
This,  of  course,  can  be  guarded  against  by  straining  the 
starch.  Add  enough  to  the  clean  water  in  which  the  gar- 
Old  Reliable  Soap  is  Strictly  Pure. 


108 
ments  are  to  be  washed  to  make  it  a  little  soft  and  a  little 
slippery  to  the  hand.  Do  not  use  soap,  nor  let  the  fabrics 
lie  or  soak  in  the  water,  but  wash  them  out  quickly.  Add  a 
little  of  the  starch  in  the  same  way  to  the  rinsing  water, 
wring  dry,  and  hang  up  without  more  starch.  Black  calico 
or  cambric  dresses  washed  thus  will  look  nearly  as  fresh  as 
new,  and  so  of  all  colors ;  the  only  precaution  needed  is  not 
to  get  too  much  of  the  Ftarch  in  the  wash  water.  Practice 
will  soon  teach  this. 


INDEX. 

Bread,  -                        -  -  47—52 

Cake,  ...  55 — 69 

Cookies  and  Gmgerbread,               -  -  73 — 76 

Candy,  -                        -  -  99—100 

Cold  Puddings,  -                         -  -  88—96 

Drinks,  -                         -  -  101 

Eggs,  -                        -  -  38—40 

Fish,  -                        -  -  12—16 

Hot  Puddings,  -                        -  -  82—87 

Meats,  -                         -  -  25—31 

Pies  and  Pastry,  -                        -  -  78—81 

Pickles,  -                        -  -  102—104 

Poultry,  -                        -  -  19—22 

Salad,  -                        -  -  40—43 

Soups,  -                         -  -  5—9 

Sauces,  -                         -  -  17 — 18 

Vegetables,  ...  33 — 37 

Useful  Hints,  -                        -           .  -  105-107 


;■!■ 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


III  lilillii? 
0  01'1  488  637  9 


