r^ 


cN?SOC^avvv 


\      '       '' 


"Bn 


^ 


Bost 

Do  not  write 
pencil.      Penaltie 
Revised  Laws  of 

This  book   wa 
last    stamped    be 

on   Public    Library 

in  this  book  or  mark  it  with  pen  or 
s    for    so    doing   are    imposed    by    the 
the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts. 

s  issued  to   the  borrotver   on  the  date 

c 

r 

Llj  12  \^Wl 

NOV  28 

>6  8,  28T3EM0NT  ST.& 
"30  COURT  SQ.  BOSTON 


MANUAL  FOR 

ARMY  COOKS 

1916 


MIUTARY  PUBLISHING  CO. 

42  BROADWAY 

NEW  YORK 


WAR  DEPARTMENT, 

Document  No.  504. 

OrncR  of,thb.,Qpabtebi:5as7Eb.Qk£tera^ 


War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Staff, 

Washington,  November  21,  1916. 
The  following  "Manual  for  Army  Cooks,"  prepared  under  the 
direction  of  the  Quartermaster  General  of  the  Army,  by  Capt.  L.  L. 
Deitrick,  Quartermaster  Corps,  aided  by  Maj.  L.  R.  Holbrook,  Quar- 
termaster Corps;  Capt.  E.  S.  Wheeler,  Fourth  Field  Artillery;  and 
Capt.  W.  H.  Smith,  Seventh  Cavalry,  is  approved  and  herewith 
published  for  the  information  and  guidance  of  the  Regular  Army  and 
the  Organized  Militia  of  the  United  States. 
By  order  of  the  Secretary  of  War: 

H.  L.  Scott, 
Major  General,  Chief  of  Staff. 


CONTENTS 


CnAFTEK  I. — Definitions 7 

II. — The  garrison  ration 23 

III.— Meat 53 

IV. — The  elementary  principles  of  cooking  and  the 

elements  of  nutrition 80 

V. — Management  of  the  company  mess 93 

VI.— Field  cooking 113 

VII. — Messing  on  railroad  trains  and  transports 148 

VIII.— Recipes 164 

5 


ILLUSTRATIONS. 


Page, 

Hind  quarter  of  beef 62 

Fore  quarter  of  beef 63 

Hind  quarters,  cow  and  steer 64 

Hind  quarters,  cow  5  years  old 66 

Hind  quarters,  eteer  4  years  old 67 

Fore  quarters,  cow  and  steer 68 

Fore  quarter  of  cow  4  years  old 70 

Fore  quarter  of  steer  4  years  old 71 

Fore  quarters,  cow  and  steer 72 

Side  of  heifer  (9  months  old) 73 

Carcass  of  pork,  showing  cuts 74 

Carcass  of  mutton,  showing  cuts 76 

Towel  rack 99 

Heat  surface  Army  range  No.  5 107 

A  convenient  type  of  .toay  kitchen  table 109 

Warming  device Ill 

Company  proof  box 112 

Army  field  range  No.  1  without  alamo  attachment 120 

Army  field  range  No.  1  without  alamo  attachment -  121 

Army  field  range  No.  1  trench  and  cobblestone  pit 122 

Improvised  fireless  cooker 125 

Impro\i8ed  ice  box 135 

Swinging  cage 136 

Field  ice  box 137 

Pit  for  slops 138 

Company  incinerator 139 

Plan  and  cross  section  of  company  incinerator 140 

Specifications,  plan,  and  side  elevation  of  incinerator 141 

clay  ovens  varieties 142 

Two-barrel  clay  ovens 143 

Open  trench  for  baking 144 

Mud  field  range 145 

Oven  in  steep  bank 147 

Field  range  No.  1  in  baggage  car 152 

fi 


MAHCAL  FOR  ARMY  COOKS. 


Chapter  No.  1. 

DEFINITIONS. 

1.  Aerated  bread. — Bread  resulting  from  a  dough  into  which 
carbonic  ga8  is  mechanically  introduced,  in  order  to  save  the  starch, 
which  is  otherwise  lost  as  a  result  of  yeast  fermentation. 

2.  Albumen. — The  transparent  nitrogenous  substance  which  forma 
the  chief  and  characteristic  constituent  of  white  of  an  egg.  Albumen 
is  found  also  in  blood,  in  all  serous  fluids,  and  in  many  animal  and 
vegetable  juices  and  solids. 

3.  Allspice. — A  common  spice  (the  berry  of  a  West  Indian  tree) 
used  in  mincemeat,  brown  cakes,  pudding,  soups,  game  entr^s, 
and  gellatin  jellies.  Ground  or  whole,  it  is  used  in  pickling  pigs* 
feet,  tripe,  sweet  pickles,  etc.  It  is  supposed  to  combine  the  flavors 
of  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  cloves;  hence  the  name. 

4.  Ambergris. — A  waxy  substance  obtained  from  the  intestines  of 
the  sperm  whale.  It  is  much  used  in  flavoring  liquors  and  in  per- 
fumes, 

5.  Aniline. — Dye  used  in  highly  colored  confectionery.  A  product 
of  petroleum.  The  red  shades  are  harmless,  but  the  chemicals  used 
in  making  blue,  green,  and  other  colors  are  injurious. 

6.  Aniseed. — A  small  seed  used  for  flavoring.  Resembles  caraway 
seed  or  celery  seed. 

7.  Annatto.— A  yellowish-red  dye  used  in  coloring  cheese,  butter, 
silk,  and  varnish.    Obtained  from  a  tropical  tree. 

8.  Arrow  root. — The  starch  of  the  root  of  a  West  Indian  plant.  It 
is  very  similar  to  sago  and  to  tapioca.  It  is  frequently  made  into  a 
gruel  for  the  sick,  but  is  little  used  in  the  company.    So  called  from 


8  MANUAL  FOE  ABMT   COOKS. 

the  reputed  use  of  it  by  the  natives  to  heal  wounds  from  poisoned 
arrows. 

9.  Baking. — Cooking  in  a  dry  heat,  as  in  a  closed  oven. 

10.  Baking  powder. — A  mixture  of  a  carbonate  of  soda  and  an  acid 
reagent  (as  cream  of  tartar,  phosphoric  acid,  or  some  form  of  alum) 
together  with  a  small  quantity  of  starch  or  other  material  to  keep  the 
active  agents  better  separated.  The  acid  and  the  carbonate  com- 
bine when  mixed  with  water,  liberating  carbonic  acid  gas,  which,  in 
rising,  forms  in  pockets  or  cells  in  the  dough,  making  it  Ught  and 
spongy.  Cold  water  or  cold  milk  should  be  used  in  the  mixture, 
which  should  be  disturbed  as  Uttle  as  possible  after  the  baking  powder 
has  been  added.  The  dough  should  be  baked  as  soon  as  possible 
after  being  prepared,  or  it  should  be  set  in  a  cool  place  until  the  oven 
is  ready.  The  objection  to  the  use  of  backing  powder  is  that,  as  a 
result  of  the  chemical  reaction,  certain  eolids  are  left  in  the  bread, 
cake,  etc.,  which  are  more  or  less  injurious,  but  they  produce  no 
harmful  results  if  used  in  limited  quantities.  The  exclusive  use  of 
baking  powder  bread  is  impracticable  as  it  turns  against  the  stomach. 
Compare  with  yeast. 

11.  Baking  temperature. — Generally  stated  as  385°  F.,  though 
bread  may  safely  be  baked  at  a  somewhat  higher  or  lower  tempera- 
ture, between  about  300°  and  450°  F.  Many  other  articles  are  baked 
at  much  lower  temperatures. 

12.  Barbecue. — To  roast  or  broil  whole.  Or  an  entertainment  for 
"which  the  carcass  of  an  animal,  as  a  hog,  is  roasted  or  broiled  whole. 

13.  Basil. — One  of  the  standard  pot  herbs  of  the  mint  family. 
Much  used  in  turtle  soup. 

14.  Baste. — Sometimes  to  sprinkle,  as  with  pepper  or  salt;  gener- 
ally to  dash  or  pour  a  liquid  over  with  a  spoon,  as  in  the  case  of 
gravy  or  stock  in  baking  or  roasting. 

15.  Batter. — A  thick  liquid  mixture  of  two  or  more  materials 
beaten  together  to  be  used  in  cooking  or  baking. 

16.  Bay  leaves. — Leaves  of  the  cherry  laurel.  Much  used  in 
soups  and  st«ws  and  in  pickling. 

17.  Beef  extract. — This  is  really  a  concentrated  beef  stock, ^  ex- 
tracted by  boiling  beef  under  pressure.  It  contains  very  little 
nutritive  matter — much  less  than  is  found  in  an  equivalent  weight 
of  beef.    It  is  of  especial  value  on  account  of  the  ease  and  speed 


MANUAL  FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  tf 

with  which  it  may  become  absorbed  into  the  circulation.    It  holds 
an  important  place  in  the  diet  of  the  sick  and  convalescent. 

18.  Beef  juice, — The  liquid  remaining  in  fresh  beef  after  it  is  prop- 
erly prepared  for  consumption,  the  blood  ha\dng  been  removed. 
The  juice  may  be  removed  by  pressure,  or  by  cutting  into  small 
pieces  and  placing  in  cold  water.  The  juice  having  been  drawn  out, 
the  water  is  evaporated.  Much  of  the  so-called  beef  juice  on  the 
market  is  said  to  be  prepared  from  the  blood  of  slaughtered  animals 

19.  Beef  tea. — This  is  really  unfiltered  beef  stock.  Instead  of 
constantly  skimming  the  surface  of  the  stock,  the  coagulated  albumen 
is  allowed  to  remain.  It  should  be  made  of  the  best  meat.  One- 
half  pound  of  good  beef  tea  may  be  made  from  1  pound  of  meat  and 
1  quart  of  water.  It  has  little  real  nutritive  value,  but,  like  the 
beef  extract,  is  a  light  stimulant. 

20.  Bench. — A  molding  table. 

21.  Bisk  (or  bisque). — A  shellfish  soup. 

22.  Blanch. — To  scald  vegetables,  nuts,  etc.,  in  order  to  remove 
the  outside  skins  or  hulls. 

23.  Blood  heat. — The  normal  temperature  of  the  human  body, 
98°  F. 

24.  Boiling. — The  conversion  of  a  liquid  into  eteam  by  the  appli- 
cation of  suffiqient  heat  to  cause  ebullition  or  disturbance  of  the 
surface.  As  applied  to  cooking,  it  is  heating  or  cooking  in  a  boiling 
liqmid.     (See  Methods  of  Cooking.) 

Water  boila  at  212°  F.  at  the  sea  level.  It  simmers  when  the 
bubbles  break  beneath  the  surface — 185°  F.  It  is  scalding  hot  at 
150°  F.,  or  at  a  temperature  such  that  the  hand  can  not  be  borne 
in  it.  Salt  water  boils  at  224°  F.  Other  solids,  as,  for  example, 
sugar,  also  raise  the  boiling  point  of  water.  A  solution  having  reached 
the  boiling  point,  the  temperature  can  not  be  increased  by  anv 
amount  of  additional  heat,  except  under  pressure,  as  would  result 
from  boiling  in  a  closed  vessel. 

Lard  smokes  at  385°  F.  and  boils  at  about  600°  F.  Hence  it  is 
evident  that  grease,  even  if  not  at  the  smoking  or  boiling  point,  may 
be  much  hotter  than  boiling  water,  a  fact  that  should  always  be 
borne  in  mind  in  handling  it  and  in  cooking. 

25.  Bouillon. — A  clear  meat  broth  or  soup  rich  in  extractives. 

i26.  Brains. — The  brains  of  most  slaughtered  animals  are  used  for 
•food  and  are  considered  a  luxury.    Calves'  brains  are  considered 


10  MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 

the  beat,  although  there  ia  but  little  difference,  and  all  brains  are 
generally  sold  under  this  name. 

27.  Braising. — Method  of  combining  the  roasting  and  stewing;  of 
meat  in  a  closed  vessel  with  heat  from  both  top  and  bottom,  as  in  a 
Dutch  oven.  It  is  one  of  the  best  methods  or  cooking  tough,  lean 
meat.  If  the  kettle  is  placed  in  a  slow  oven,  it  requires  little  further 
attention. 

28.  Broiling. — Properly  speaking,  it  is  cooking  over  red-hot  coals 
by  direct  exposure  to  the  heat  of  an  open  fire,  though  the  term  ia 
applied  to  cooking  on  an  iron  plate  interposed  laetween  the  fire  and 
the  article  cooked.  In  broiling,  the  fire  should  be  clear  and  free 
from  smoke.  Charcoal  Is  the  best  fuel  to  use.  It  is  better  to  broil 
before  a  fire  than  over  it,  in  order  to  save  the  dripping  grease  and 
avoid  the  smoky  flavor,  though  the  smoke  from  the  fat  itself  is  not 
as  objectionable  as  that  from  coal  or  wood. 

29.  Calorie. — Quantity  of  heat  required  to  raise  1  kilogram  of 
water  1°  C.  This  is  the  equivalent  of  1,54  foot  tons.  Food  values 
are  expressed  in  calories  and  the  calories  in  the  soldier's  daily  ration 
exceed  5,000. 

30.  Capers. — Unopened  buds  of  a  trailing  shnib  grown  in  southern 
Europe.  Pickled  and  much  uesd  in  sauces.  Caper  sauce  is  fre- 
quently served  with  mutton, 

31.  Caramel. — A  sirup  made  from  scorched  sugar,  used  largely  in 
coloring  sauces,  as  well  as  in  flavorings. 

32.  Caraway  seed. — Seed  of  a  garden  herb.  Grows  like  the  seed 
of  a  carrot  or  parsnip.  Used  in  various  cakes  and  sweet  crackers,  in 
rye  bread,  and  in  liquors. 

33.  Carbohydrates. — Starches,  surars,  and  the  fibers  of  plants.  It 
is  principally  a  source  of  energy.  The  surplus  is  stored  in  the  body 
as  fat. 

34.  Casein. — A  proteid  compound  found  principally  in  milk,  of 
which  it  is  the  most  important  ingredient,  ^^^len  coagulated,  it 
forms  the  principal  ingredient  in  cheese, 

35.  Casing. — A  term  applied  to  the  intestines  of  all  animals. 
They  are  used  to  receive  sausage,  bologna,  etc.  The  hog's  stomach 
ia  actually  used  as  a  receptacle  for  his  head  when  it  is  converted  into 
head  cheese, 

36.  Cassia. — Bark  of  a  tree  similar  to  cinnamon.  Cultivated  in 
€l]dna.    Also  called  Chinese  cinnamon. 


MANUAL   FOB  ABMT   COOKS.  11. 

37.  Celery  salt. — A  mixture  of  ground  celery  seed  and  salt  in  the 
roportions  in  weight  of  two  to  one.  Much  used  in  salads  and  season- 
\g. 

38.  Centigrade. — Graded  to  a  scale  of  100.  On  the  centigrade 
lermometer  scale  the  freezing  point  of  water  is  0  and  the  boiling 
[>int  100. 

39.  Chervil. — A  garden  herb  much  used  in  soups. 

40.  Chicory. — A  perennial  herb  of  the  astor  farnilys  with  heads  of 
irge  bright-blue  flowers  and  dandelion-like  roots.  The  roasted  and 
ilverized  root  is  used  in  adulterating  coffee  and  as  a  substitute  for  it. 

I  grains  of  coffee  containing  chicory  are  dropped  into  cold  water, 
,e  chicory  will  settle  at  once  and  be  followed  by  a  cloudy  streak. 

41.  Chili. — Red  sweet  pepper.  Chili  powder  conta,iB.s' chili,  ga.T- 
j,  comina,  and  ore^no. 

i42.  Chives. — A  kind  of  green  onion.  Tops  are  slender  and  pipe 
ke.    Much  used  in  soups  and  sauces. 

43.  Chocolate. — A  paste  or  cake  made  from  the  cocoa  bean  before 
Ay  of  the  fat  has  been  extracted. 

44.  Chowder. — A  dish  of  stewed,  fresh,  or  salt  fish  or  clams,  with. 
3getables  and  crackers  added. 

■45.  Chutney. — An  East  Indian  sweet  pickle. 

46.  Cumamon. — The  inner  bark  of  the  cinnamon  or  cassia  tree, 
rown  in  Ceylon  and  used  as  a  spice. 

47.  Citron. — Large  coarse  fruit  of  the  lemon  family.  Used  in 
incemeat  and  preserves. 

48.  Cloves. — Flower  buds  of  the  clove  tree  carefully  picked  and 
ded .  Should  always  be  purchased  whole,  as  they  deteriorate  rapidly 
tien  ground. 

49.  Cochineal. — Coloring  matter  made  from  the  dried  bodies  of 
lall  insects  found  in  the  jiouthwestem  part  of  the  United  States,  in 
exico,  and  in  Central  America.     It  is  harmlo.><s. 

50.  Cocoa.— Similar  to  chocolate,  but  not  as  rich.  It  is  ground 
am  the  cocoa  bean  after  much  of  the  fat  ha.s  been  pressed  out. 

51.  Comina. — An  herb  found  in  the  southwestern  part  of  the 
oited  States  and  in  Mexico.     Much  used  in  seasoning  soups  and 

3WS. 

52.  Compound. — A  substitute  for  lard,  commonly  used  in  bakeries, 
about  the  following  composition:  Seventy-five  per  cent  cottonseed 
I,  25  per  cent  beef  stearin.     The  results  obtained  are  about  the  same 


12  MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 

as  when  using  lard,  and  its  use  in  company  kitchens  is  recommended 
for  economy. 

53.  Condiment. — Something  to  give  relish  to  the  food  and  gratify 
the  taste.    General  term  for  seasoning. 

54.  Cracklings.— The  crisp  residue  of  hog  fat  after  the  lard  has  been 
tried  out.  It  may  be  used  in  hash  or  com  bread,  but  is  valuable  only 
in  proportion  to  the  amount  of  fat  that  is  left  in  it. 

55.  Crackling  bread.— Com  bread  to  which  cracklings  have  been 
a,dded. 

56.  Cream  bread. — Bread  baked  in  superheated  steam,  as  when 
moisture  is  artificially  introduced  into  an  oven,  or  the  bread  baked 
under  inverted  pans,  giving  a  very  thin  crust  and  a  light  color. 

57.  Croquettes. — A  mass  of  finely  minced  and  seasoned  meat,  fish, 
rice,  or  potatoes,  etc.,  made  into  a  ball  or  other  regular  shape,  rolled 
in  cracker  crumbs  and  fried  in  deep  lard  until  crisp. 

58.  Croutons.— Cubes  of  toasted  bread.  Generally  served  with 
soup. 

59.  Crullers. — Small  cakes  made  from  a  sweet  dough  mixture  and 
fried  in  deep  lard.  They  may  be  made  with  either  baking  powder 
or  yeast. 

60.  Crumb. — The  soft  inner  part  of  the  loaf,  as  distinguished  from 
the  cmst. 

61.  Curry  powder. — A  yellow  powder  formed  by  a  mixture  of 
numerous  hot  peppers  and  ginger.  Used  as  a  high  seasoning  for 
stews,  etc. 

62.  Cutlets. — Term  usually  applied  to  the  rib  cuts  of  pork,  mutton, 
lamb,  veal,  venison,  etc.,  but  not  of  beef. 

63.  Deviled. — EQghly  seasoned. 

64.  Deviled  meat. — Cooked  meat,  finely  ground  and  highly  seas- 
oned. 

65.  Dough. — Technically,  the  mixture  resulting  from  breaking  up 
a  sponge  and  adding  the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  other  ingredients 
to  be  used  in  making  bread.  The  term  is  also  applied  to  the  result- 
ing mixture  in  any  subsequent  stage,  and  sometimes  to  any  mixture 
in  which  flour  forms  the  greater  part. 

Young  or  green  dough.— One  not  fully  matured,  or  not  yet  risen  to 
its  maximum  height  in  proving. 

Ripe  dough. — One  that  has  fully  matured. 


MANUAL  FOE  ABMY   COOKS.  13 

Old  and  rotten  dough.— One  that  has  been  allowed  to  stand  longer 
tian  the  normal  length  of  time,  so  that  it  begins  to  show  signs  of 
ourness  In  pulling  a  portion  from  the  general  mass,  it  will  tear 
aore  readily  than  usual,  on  account  of  the  gluten  having  become 
reaken^d  by  the  actions  of  acids  upon  it.  e     -j 

Sour  <?oua)i.— Generally  one  containing  a  large  percentage  of  and, 
<n  account  of  being  allowed  to  ferment  without  the  introduction  of 
reast  A  sour  dough  may  also  result  from  unclean  utensils,  from 
)roving  in  too  high  a  temperature,  from  too  long  fermentation,  or 
rom  yea-st  containing  acid  germs. 

66.  Dough  break.— A  dough  kneading  machine  with  corrugated 

67  Doughnuts.— Small  cakes  made  from  a  dough  mixture  and 
Tied  in  deep  laid.    They  may  be  made  with  either  baking  powder 

68.  Dredge.- To  sprinkle,  as  with  pepper  and  salt,  or  rub  in,  as 
with  flour,  etc.  .  •,£_•. 

69  Dumplings.— Pieces  of  dough,  sometimes  with  fruit  or  vege- 
tables inclosed;  boiled  or  baked .  If  to  be  served  with  meats  or  stews, 
Jhe  pieces  of  dough  should  be  dropped  into  the  boiling  hot  beef  stock 
3r  stew  about  eight  minutes  before  being  served.  ^ 

70  Eggs.— For  domestic  purposes  eggs  should  be  kept  m  a  cool, 
iark  place,  the  nearer  to  the  freezing  point  the  better.  However, 
changes  are  constantly  taking  place  within  the  egg,  producing  a 
certain  amount  of  heat,  and,  partly  for  this  reason,  eggs  will  stand  a 
temperature  somewhat  lower  than  freezing.  ^  , 

The  porous  nature  of  the  shell  facilitates  decomposition,  and  eggs 
dipped  in  varnish  or  other  solution  (e.  g.,  silicate  of  soda)  that  will 
permanently  fill  the  pores,  will  keep  much  longer  than  others.  Even 
^  cold-storage  eggs  "  should  not  be  kept  longer  than  six  weeks.  1  hey 
are,  however,  often  kept  for  a  period  of  six  months,  or  even  more, 
but  during  this  time  they  acquire  a  distinctly  unpleasant  (xior  and 
flavor.  Eggs  kept  for  a  long  time  in  cold  storage,  or  decayed  in  any 
way,  are  extremely  injurious.  .  •  i.  a 

71.  Entr6e.— Small  meats  made  in  various  guises,  with  sauces  ana 
garnishings,  served  between  courses  or  at  the  beginning  of  a  dinner. 

72.  Estragon  or  tarragon.— A  garden  herb  used  to  flavor  vinegar, 
Boups,  sauces,  etc. 


14  MANUAL  FOE  ARMY   COOKS. 

73.  Extractives. — ^The  principal  ingredient  of  beef  extract,  bee: 
tea,  etc.    They  act  as  stimulants  and  appetizers  but  have  little  or  noj 
nutritive  value. 

74.  Fahrenheit. — The  thermometer  scale  commonly  used  in  the 
United  States  and  Great  Britain,  on  which  32  marks  the  freezing 
point  of  water  and  212  the  boiling  point. 

75.  Farina. — A  fine  flour  or  meal  made  from  cereal  grains  or  from 
the  starch  of  vegetables.  Some  forms  especially  prepared  for  break- 
fast foods. 

76 .  Fennel. — A  garden  plant  much  cultivated  in  England .  Grows 
wild  in  Florida.    Used  to  flavor  mackerel  and  salmon. 

77.  Ferment. — A  substance  capable  of  producing  yeast  fermenta- 
tion. 

78.  Fillet. — A  strip  of  lean  meat  without  bone. 

79.  FiUet  of  beef. — The  tenderloin  muscle,  which  lies  beneath  the 
backbone  in  the  hind  quarter.  It  is  easily  detached,  and  is  used  in 
steaks,  and  less  frequently  in  roasts. 

80.  FiUet  of  fowl.— The  breast. 

81.  Fillet  of  pork  or  mutton. — A  strip  from  the  shoulder  to  the  hip 
on  either  side  of  the  backbone. 

82.  Fillet  of  rabbit. — Fleshy  parts  of  the  back  and  legs. 

83.  FiUet  of  veal. — Pieces  of  the  round,  generally  larded,  stuffed, 
coiled  and  skewed  into  a  round  shape. 

84.  Force  meat. — The  various  mixtures  used  to  stuff  fowl,  fish, 
tomatoes,  etc.  Some  force  meats  are  composed  of  minced  veal  and 
bacon  with  herbs  and  seasotiings,  or  pounded  chicken  breasts  with 
bread  crumbs,  butter,  yolks,  etc. 

85.  Frappfi. — A  term  given  to  water  ices  that  have  been  only  partly 
frozen.  It  is  an  iced  drink  and  the  name  should  not  be  given  to  a 
thick  custard  cream. 

86.  Fricassee. — A  dish  of  meat,  as  of  fowl,  cut  into  pieces,  fried 
until  partially  done,  and  stewed  in  gravy. 

87.  Fried  cakes. — Domestic  term  for  doughnuts  or  crullers.  A 
general  term  appUed  to  batter  cakes,  potato  cakes,  etc. 

88.  Fritters. T— A  small  quantity  of  batter  usually  inclosing  or 
containing  some  other  substances  and  fried  in  deep  lard,  e.  g.,  com 
fritters,  apple  fritters,  etc. 

89.  QarUc. — A  bulb  like  an  onion,  with  a  strong  characteristic 
smell  and  pungent  taste.    A  clove  of  garlic  means  one  of  the  natural 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMT   COOKS.  15 

subdivisions  of  the  bulb.  A  favorite  condiment  of  the  people  of 
southern  Europe  and  of  the  Orient.  It  is  much  used  in  company 
cooking  to  "bring  out"  the  flavor  of  other  seasonings. 

90.  Garnish.— To  decorate  a  dish  with  something  to  make  it  more 
attractive,  such  as  bordering  salads  with  capers,  parsley,  beets,  or 
lemons, 

91.  Qelatin. — Glutinous  material  obtained  from  animal  tissues 
after  long  boiling.  It  readily  dissolves  in  hot  water,  and  forms  a 
jelly  upon  cooling.  While  in  the  liquid  state  it  may  be  given  any 
flavor  desired.  It  makes  an  excellent  cheap  summer  dessert. 
Easily  digested  and  much  used  in  the  sick  room.  Not  of  great 
nutritive  value. 

92.  Gems  or  muffins. — ^Hot  breads  made  from  white  flour,  Graham, 
or  corn  meal,  and  baked  in  gem  pans. 

93.  Germ. — The  earliest  stage  m  the  growth  of  an  animal  or  plant. 
Also  applied  to  minute  organisms  which  do  or  do  not  cause  disease. 

94.  Giblets. — Liver,  gizzard,  heart,  neck,  feet,  wings,  etc.,  of 
poultry  as  used  in  pies,  stews,  and  sauces. 

95.  Ginger. — The  root  of  a  reedlike  plant.  The  common  brown 
root  is  the  natural  state.  Jamaica  ginger  is  made  from  the  same 
root,  from  which  the  outer  surface  has  been  removed. 

96.  Glac6.— Icing. 

97.  Glucose. — A  cheap  sugar  that  will  not  easily  crystallize  or  a 
cheap  sirup  that  will  not  crystallize — ^very  much  like  ''Silver 
Drip,"  but  much  thicker.  Glucose  is  often  made  by  treating  com 
meal  with  sulphuric  acid.     It  is  very  wholesome. 

98.  Gluten. — The  muscle-building  element  of  wheat,  rye,  and 
other  grains.  The  strength  of  flour  and  the  toughness  and  tenacity 
of  dough  are  determined  by  the  quantity  and  quality  of  the  gluten 
present. 

99.  Graham  flour. — Unbolted  flour  or  white  flour  mixed  with  bran 
and  shorts. 

100.  Grilled.— Broiled. 

101.  Grits.— Grains,  as  of  wheat,  com,  or  oats,  coarsely  ground. 

102.  Gruel. — Liquid  food  made  by  boiling  meal  or  flour  in  water 
or  milk. 

103.  Ham. — Properly  speaking,  it  is  the  thigh  of  an  animal,  but 
the  "ham  "  of  the  nog  is  prepared  from  either  the  thigh  or  shoulder. 


16  MANUAL   FOR   ARMY   COOKS. 

104.  Ham  butts. — Part  of  the  hog  corresponding  very  closely  to 
the  chuck  of  the  beef;  it  is  a  portion  of  the  shoulder  directly  above 
that  used  in  preparing  '  *  shoulder  hams . " 

105.  Hominy. — Cracked  Indian  corn  from  which  the  outer  husk 
has  been  remove.d. 

•  106.  Hops. — Used  in  the  preparation  of  yeast,  not  as  a  food  for 
the  yeast  plant  but  to  prevent  sourness. 

107.  Ice. — A  general  term  frequently  applied  to  frozen  creams,- 
custards,  and  other  desserts,  as  well  as  to  water  ices.    The  latter  are 
frtiit  juices  sweetened  with  sugar  sirup  and  stirred  while  freezing. 

108.  Icing. — A  glazing  or  coating  of  sugar  usuallj^  mixed  with 
white  of  egg  and  suitable  flavoring,  as  on  a  cake ;  frosting. 

109.  Jam. — A  preserv^e  of  fruit  boiled  with  sugar  and  water. 

110.  Jelly. — The  juice  of  fruits  or  meats  boiled  to  an  elastic  con- 
sistence.    In  making  fruit  jellies,  sugar  and  suitable  flavor  are  added. 

111.  Elidneys  from  all  slaughtered  animals  are  used  in  stews,  etc. 
There  is  not  any  great  demand  for  them  in  American  markets,  but 
great  quantities  are  shipped  abroad.  Pig's  kidneys  are  considered 
the  best. 

112.  Lamb  chops. — The  short  ribs  of  lamb  with  the  attached 
flesh. 

113.  Lard. — The  fat  of  swine.  It  is  frequently  adulterated  by 
the  addition  of  a  large  proportion  of  cottonseed  oil.  Pure  cottonseed 
oil,  to  which  stearin  is  added,  makes  a  fairly  good  substitute.  In 
addition,  lard  and  cottonseed -oil  compounds  are  frequently  further 
adulterated  by  the  addition  of  water,  the  presence  of  which  is  noted 
by  the  crackhng  and  sputtering  when  placed  in  the  spider,  or  when 
a  small  lump  is  dropped  into  the  fire.  Watered  lard  is  unnaturally 
white.  Good  firm  lard  is  the  best  for  pastries,  although  refined  oil 
and  "lard  compounds"  do  for  most  purposes. 

114.  Lard. — ^To  introduce  thin  pieces  of  pprk,  ham,  or  bacon  into 
meats  deficient  in  fat  to  improve  the  flavor. 

115.  Leaf  lard. — This  consists  of  the  leaves  of  fat  along  the  back- 
bone of  the  hog,  in  the  abdominal  cavity.  It  may  be  torn  out 
without  cutting.  It  is  the  best  quality  of  lard  and  may  be  used 
in  many  instances  without  rendering  if  desired.  The  next  best 
quality  of  lard  is  that  which  is  found  connected  with  the  intestines, 
called  "intestinal  lard,"  and  the  third  quality  comes  from  the 
back  of  the  hog. 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  17 

116.  Leaven. — A  piece  of  old  dough  used  as  a  ferment  in  making 
bread. 

117.  Leek. — ^A  species  of  onion,  the  leaves  of  which  are  flat 
instead  of  round.    Much  used  in  soups. 

1J8.  Lentils. — A  variety  of  bean  used  in  making  soup. 

119.  Lights. — The  lungs  of  slaughtered  animals.  Used  to  some 
extent  in  cheap  sausage. 

120.  Liver.— -Calves'  livers  are  considered  the  best.  Beef  liver 
is  second  best,  and  pigs'  liver  third.  The  liver  of  mutton  is  very 
dry  and  tasteless. 

121.  Macaroni. — ^A  strong  flour  made  into  a  stiff  dough,  pressed 
into  long  tubes,  and  dried  in  the  sun  or  by  slow  heat.  Spaghttti 
is  of  the  same  material,  but  is  pressed  into  the  form  of  long  cords. 
Vermicelli  is  the  same  as  fine  cord  soaghetti. 

122.  Mace. — ^The  inner  coating  of  the  nutmeg.  It  is  a  good 
flavoring  for  meats,  cream  soups,  puddings,  and  sweets. 

123.  Malt. — Barley  or  other  grain  that  has  been  allowed  to  sprout, 
then  dried  at  a  low  temperature  and  coarsely  ground.  Useful  in 
making  yeast,  as  it  furnishes  food  for  the  yeast  plant  in  the  best 
form  possible. 

124.  Marjoram. — A  mintlike  plant,  particularly  aromatic  and 
fragrant.    Much  used  in  seasonings. 

125.  Marrow. — The  material  filling  the  hollow  of  bones.  The 
beef  marrow  found  in  the  shin  bone  of  cattle  is  an  excellent  fat. 
In  packing  houses  it  is  extracted  and  sold  on  the  market  for 
shortening. 

126.  Mayonnaise. — A  sauce  for  salads,  prepared  from  the  yolks 
of  e^s,  with  mustard,  olive  oil,  lemon,  salt,  etc»  added. 

127.  Meringue. — ^A  kind  of  icing  made  from  the  whites  of  eggs, 
with  sugar  sprinkled  over  the  top  when  ready  for  baking.  The 
sugar  being  next  to  the  heat,  quicklv  turns  a  delicate  brown  and 
adds  rich  appearance  to  the  pies  or  other  pastry  in  which  used. 

128.  Mint. — ^An  aromatic  herb  used  in  cooking.  Mint  sauce. — 
Chopped  green  mint,  vinegar,  and  sugar  mixed.  Served  with 
mutton,  either  hot  or  cold. 

129.  Mousse. — Froth.  Something  light  and  spongy.  Term  ap- 
plied both  to  meat  preparations  and  ice  cream. 


18  MANUAL  FOR  ABMY   COOKS. 

130.  Mulligatawny. — Curry  soup  (combination  of  two  words  from 
a  foreign  Iang:uage,  meaning  pepper  w^ter). 

131.  Mustard. — Flour  made  of  mixed  black  and  white  mustard 
seeds,  deprived  of  their  oil  and  toned  down  with  more  or  less  meal. 

132.  Noodles. — ^Practically  the  same  material  aa  macaroni  and 
spaghetti.    (Seepaf.  J21.) 

133.  Nasturtium.— Well-known  garden  plant.  The  green  seeds 
are  pickled  as  a  substitute  for  capers. 

134.  Nutmeg. — Kernel  of  the  fruit  of  the  nutmeg  tree.  Much  used 
in  desserts,  etc. 

135.  Oleomargarine. — A  term  adopted  by  the  Department  of 
Agriculture  to  desi^ate  all  kinds  of  artificial  butter. 

136.  Olein.— Olein  is  that  portion  of  oil  or  fat  which  gives  it 
fluidity.  Fat  contains  more  of  it  than  lard,  and  lard  more  than 
suet.    Contrast  with  stearin. 

137.  Oregano. — An  herb  much  used  in  seasoning  soups  and  stews. 

138.  Oseille  or  sorrel. — ^A  green  herb  used  as  greens  and  in  soup. 

139.  Oven,  quick. — One  heated  to  a  higher  temperature  than 
normal — above  385°  F.    An  oven  of  leas  than  12  counts. 

140.  Oven,  slow. — One  heated  to  less  than  the  normal  tempera- 
ture for  baking — ^below  385°  F.    An  oven  of  more  than  15  counts. 

141.  Oyster  plant  (salsify). — A  white  root  with  the  taste  of  an 
oyster.  Best  in  the  spring  of  the  year  after  the  frost  is  out  of  the 
ground.     It  is  generally  left  in  the  ground  over  winter. 

142.  Pancreas. — A  gland  from  near  the  stomach  of  slaughtered 
animals  used  as  a  sweetbread. 

143.  Parboil. — ^To  cook  partly  by  boiling, 

144.  Parsley. — A  green  nerb  much  used  for  garnishing  and  in  fla- 
voring soups,  stews,  croquettes,  etc. 

145.  Patties. — There  are  two  distinct  kinds  of  patties.  First,  a 
puff  paste  shell  baked  and  afterwards  filled;  second,  small  pies  made 
Dy  lining  patty  pans  with  short  paste,  filling  with  oysters,  chicken, 
etc,,  covered  with  a  top  crust  and  baked. 

146.  Pepper. — The  white  pepper  is  made  from  the  ripe  seeds,  and 
the  black  pepper  from  seeds  picked  before  they  are  ripe.  White  pep- 
per is  much  better  for  cooking  purposes,  as  it  does  not  show  the  dark 
specks.  Black  pepper  is  preferred  for  flavoring,  especially  in  dishes 
that  are  to  be  strained  afterwards.  Pepper  is  much  subject  to  adul- 
teration and  whole  pepper  should  be  purchased  and  ground  at  home. 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  19 

147.  Pepper,  cayenne. — Red  pepper  pods  and  seeds  ground.  Often 
adulterated  with  yellow  commeai,  mustard  hulls,  etc. 

148 .  Piccalilli. — The  same  as  chow  chow.  Green  tomatoes,  onions, 
cucumbers,  celery,  etc.,  finely  chopped  with  vinegar  added  ana 
highly  seasoned. 

149.  Pistachio. — A  pale  greenish  nut  resembling  the  almond. 
Much  used  as  a  coloring  matter  for  ice  creams  and  confections.  It 
has  a  fine  flavor.  A  deeper  green  is  obtained  by  the  addition  of 
spinach. 

150.  Poach. — To  cook  in  a  small  amount  of  water  or  milk.  A  term 
generally  applied  to  eggs. 

151.  Porridge. — A  gruel. 

152.  Protein. — ^The  muscle  producing  compound  found  in  meats, 
eggs,  cereals,  etc. 

153.  Proving. — A  gradual  rising  or  expansion  of  a  dough  or  sponge, 
due  to  the  formation  of  carbonic  gas  incident  to  the  growth  of  the 
yeast. 

154.  Pyrometer. — An  instrument  for  measuring  high  degree  of 
heat,  usually  operated  by  the  expansion  or  contraction  of  a  metal 
spring.  In  our  experience,  they  are  not  as  accurate  as  the  mer- 
curial thermometers,  and  easily  get  out  of  order. 

155.  Ragout. — A  highly  seasoned  meat  stew.  Liquor  is  frequently 
added. 

156.  Rendering. — The  process  of  separating  the  lard  or  beef  fat 
from  the  tissue  in  which  it  is  found. 

157.  Boasting. — Cooking  before  an  open  fire.  Term  also  applied 
to  baking  in  a  dry  oven  chamber,  with  free  circulation.  Certain 
flavors  are  developed  in  roasting  before  an  open  fire  that  are  closely 
approximated  in  a  well-ventilated  oven,  but  not  approached  in  a 
Closed  oven. 

158.  Saccharin. — A  white,  sweetening  substance  (powder)  ob- 
tained from  coal  tar  and  said  to  possess  three  hundred  times  the 
sweetening  power  of  sugar.  It  possesses  certain  antiseptic  qualities 
and  is  a  powerful  antiferment.  It  contains  no  nutriment  and  is 
little  used  as  a  seasoning.  Formerly  used  in  tablet  form  with  the 
Army  standard  emergency  ration  for  sweetening  coffee. 

159.  Saffron. — The  petals  of  a  flowering  plant  of  a  doep  orange 
color.    Made  into  a  tea  and  added  to  dough,  or  stew,  etc. 


20  MANUAL  FOR  ABMY   COOKS. 

160.  Sage. — A  plant  with  grayish  green  leaves  and  much  used  in 
seasoning  meats  and  stews. 

161.  Sago. — It  is  made  from  the  pith  of  a  palm  tree  which  grows  in 
the  East  Indies.  It  is  nearly  pure  starch  and  has  many  imitations 
on  the  market,  but  the  form  of  the  grain  of  the  latter  disappears  in 
cooking.  It  is  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  tapioca  and  is  also  much 
used  in  soups. 

162.  Salsify.— (See  par.  141.) 

163.  Sausage. — There  are  from  50  to  60  different  kinds  of  sausages 
put  up  in  the  packing  houses,  the  components,  quality,  and  seasonmg 
aiffering  to  meet  the  requirements  of  foreign  and  domestic  trade. 
In  the  course  of  preparation,  they  are  generally  subjected  to  the 
smoke  from  hickory  or  other  hard  wood,  and  then  cooked  in  vats  of 
water  at  a  temperatiu-e  of  about  160°,  from  10  minutes  for  frankfurters 
to  Z  hours  ioT  bung  saiisages. 

Summer  sausages  are  first  smoked  and  then  placed  in  a  drying  tem- 
perature for  about  three  months.  The  material  put  into  sausages 
compares  favorably  with  that  put  on  the  market  in  other  forms. 

Bull  meat  is  used  to  considerable  extent,  as  it  takes  up  more  mois- 
ture than  other  meats. 

The  best  -pork  sausage  contains  no  beef. 

Liver  sausage  is  one  of  the  cheapest  and  contains  lungs  (lights)  as 
well  as  Hver  and  other  ingredients  not  put  into  better  grades. 

A  good  quality  may  contain  from  one-third  to  one-half  of  beef,  and 
for  Army  sausage,  this  is  an  ordinary  proportion. 

164.  Saut6. — To  fry  in  a  shallow  pan  with  but  a  little  fat — first  on 
one  side  and  then  on  the  other. 

165.  Scald. — As  applied  to  floui,  potatoes,  etc.,  to  submerge  or  wet 
with  water  at  a  temperature  of  160**  F.  or  more — sufficiently  hot  to 
dissolve  the  bands  of  the'  starch  cells  and  expose  the  individual 
grains  composing  it  generally  to  the  action  of  the  yeast  plant. 

To  scald  utensils,  etc.;  to  dash  over  with  boiling  water. 

166.  Scallop. — A  mollusk  similar  to  an  oyster.  The  shell  is  corru- 
pted and  radiates  from  the  center.  Scalloped  dishes. — Dishes  made 
in  the  form  of  a  scallop  shell. 

167.  Scalloped  oysters. — Oysters  baked  in  scalloped  dishes  and 
rolled  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  and  baked. 


MANUAL   FOE  ABMY   COOKS.  21 

168.  Sherbet. — A  water  ice  made  from  the  juice  of  fruit,  diluted, 
sweetened,  flavored,  and  frozen.    Liquors  are  sometimes  added. 

169.  Shortening. — Lard,  butter,  suet,  marrow,  etc.,  mixed  in 
pastries  to  make  them  more  friable  and  more  easy  to  crumble. 

170.  Slaw.— Sliced  cabbage  with  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper,  served 
cooked  (hot  or  cold)  or  raw. 

171.  Soda.— A  white  alkaline  compound  (sodium  bicarbonate), 
consisting  of  white  powder  or  dry,  transparent  crystals.  Sometimes 
used  to  neutralize  acids  found  in  sour  dough  |  also  used  to  manufac- 
ture baking  powder  or  alone  in  the  preparation  of  certain  mixtures 
in  the  kitchen. 

172.  Souffle. — A  side  dish  served  hot  from  the  oven,  made  of 
beaten  eggs,  flour,  etc. 

173.  Soy.— A  bottled  sauce  obtained  from  China  and  India.  Com- 
position uncertain. 

174.  Spaghetti.— <See  par.  121.) 

175.  Spare  ribs. — Ribs  of  pork  with  but  little  flesh  attached. 

176.  Sponge.— A  thick  batter  or  soft  dough,  made  from  flour, 
water,  and  yeast.  It  is  the  first  step  in  the  process  of  bread  making. 
A  sponge  is  said  to  be  green  or  young  before  it  has  fully  matured ;  ripe 
when  it  has  matured  and  is  ready  to  be  broken  up  preparatory  to 
making  the  dough;  and  old  or  rotten  when  it  has  passed  the  ripe 
stage,  and  having  risen  and  fallen  more  than  once,  probably  contains 
a  relatively  high  percentage  of  acid,  making  it  sour. ' 

177 .  Stale  bread. — Bread  in  which  all  free  moisture  has  so  combined 
with  the  crumb  as  to  give  it  the  appearance  of  dryness.  This  takes 
place  when  the  bread  is  from  18  to  24  hours  old. 

178.  Starch. — A  white,  odorless,  tasteless,  flourlike  compound, 
insoluble  in  cold  water,  alcohol,  and  other  liquids.  Found  in  all 
grains  and  seeds  of  plants,  with  but  few  exceptions.  It  is  readily 
transformed  into  sugar  compounds. 

179.  Stearin. — That  portion  of  fats,  lard,  suet,  etc.,  that  gives  it 
BoUdity. 

180.  Sterilize.— To  destroy  harmless  or  disease-bearing  bacteria. 
Generally  accomplidied  in  the  utensils  used  in  the  kitchen  by  the 
use  of  boiling  hot  water  to  which  lye  is  sometimes  added.  The 
sterilizing  of  all  utensils  used  in  handling  yeasts  and  doughs  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  in  order  to  prevent  souring. 


22^  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

181.  Stock. — The  liquid  or  jelly  obtained  by  boiling  meat,  bones, 
etc.,  for  several  hours. m  water.     It  is  the  basis  of  all  good  soups. 

182.  Succotash. — Green  corn  and  beans  boiled  together. 

183.  Suet. — The  large  folds  of  fat  found  attached  to  the  inner  walls 
of  the  hind  quarters  of  beef. 

.  184.  Sweetbreads. — The  thymus  gland  (found  in  the  neck  of 
slaughtered  animals)  and  the  pancreas  (found  near  the  stomach). 
They  have  very  little  natural  flavor,  but  are  very  tender  and  con- 
sidered a  delicacy.  Those  from  the  calf  are  the  best,  the  next  are 
from  the  beef,  sheep,  and  hog,  in  the  order  named. 

J 85.  Tallow. — Properly  speaking,  it  is  the  fat  of  beef,  sheep,  or 
other  animals,  from  which  a  portion  of  the  oil  has  been  extracted, 
making  it  harder  than  the  natural  fat. 

186.  Tapioca. — A  starch  extracted  from  a  South  American  plant. 
Used  in  puddings.    Very  similar  to  sago  and  arrow  root. 

187.  Thyme.:— An  herb  used  in  seasoning. 

188.  Thymus  gland. — ^A  gland  of  the  neck  of  slaughtered  animals 
used  as  sweet  bread. 

189.  Tripe. — A  term  applied  to  the  stomach  of  the  beef  after  being 
cleaned  and  boiled.  It  has  but  little  flavor,  but  is  considered  by 
many  as  a  very  valuable  food.    It  is  very  easily  digested. 

190.  Vinegar. — The  sour  liquid  formed  by  the  spontaneous  acetic 
fermentation  or  artificial  oxidation  of  beer,  wine,  cider,  etc. 

191 .  Yeast. — Yeast  grows  in  small  spores  that  reproduce  themselves 
every  foiu"  of  five  hours.  The  spore  is  found  ever vwhere  floating 
about  in  the  air,  and  wherever  the  proper  condition  of  food,  moisture, 
and  warmth  are  found  it  grows  spontaneously.  "VMiile  in  a  dry  state 
it  is  unaffected  by  the  ordinary  temperature,  though  freezing  or  a 
temperature  above  160°  F.  will  kill  it  in  the  liquid  state,  ^\'hile  it 
"works"  or  grows  it  evolves  a  carbonic  gas  which  gives  to  the  dou^h 
a  cellular  structure.  "WTiile  proving,  the  dough  Siould  l)e  kept  m 
an  even  temperature  of  about  80°,  and  this  should  be  about  the  aver- 
age temperature  of  the  dough  and  ingredients  when  mixed  together. 


Chapter  II. 


THE  GABBISON  RATION. 

192.  A  ration  is  the  allowance  for  the  subsistence  of  one  person  fo» 
one  day.  The  garrison  ration  is  intended  for  troops  in  gamson,  and, 
in  time  of  peace,  for  troops  in  maneuver  camps;  the  ration  to  be 
issued  to  troops  on  the  march  in  time  of  peace  will  be  prescribed  by 
I  the  commander,  and  will  not  exceed  the  allowance  prescribed  for  the 
garrison  ration-  the  travel  ration  is  for  troops  traveling  otherwise 
than  by  marching  and  separated  from  cooking  facllties;  the  reserve 
ration  is  carried  on  the  person  of  the  men  and  m  the  trains,  and  con- 
stitutes the  reserve  for  field  service;  the  Jield  ration  is  the  ration 
prescribed  in  orders  by  the  commander  of  the  field  forces;  the 
Filipino  ration  is  for  use  of  the  Philippine  Scouts;  and  the  einergency 
ration  for  troops  in  active  campaign  for  use  on  occasions  of  emergency 
or  in  the  fiela  for  purposes  of  instruction. 

In  time  of  war  when  Philippine  Scouts  are  serving  in  the  field 
they  will  be  subsisted  the  same  as  are  Regular  troops.  \Mien  imprac- 
ticable for  Philippine  Scouts  to  use  the  Filipino  ration  while  traveling 
otherwise  than  by  marching,  on  account  of  the  lack  of  cooking  facili- 
ties or  for  other  reasons,  the  travel  ration  may  l)e  prescribed. 

The  kinds  and  quantities  of  the  component  articles  of  the  Army 
ration  and  the  substitutive  equivalent  articles  which  may  be  Issued 
in  place  of  such  component  shall  be  as  follows: 

1.  GARRISON  RATION. 


Component- 

_ 

Substitutive— 

Articles. 

Quanti- 
ties. 

Articles. 

Quanti- 
ties. 

Beef,  fresh 

Ounces. 
20 

Mutton,  fresh 

Ounces. 
20 

Bacon  ' 

Canned  meat,  when  impracticable  to 
furnish  fresh  meat. 

12 
16 

'  In  Alaska,  16  ounces  of  bacon  or,  when  desired,  IG  ounces  salt  p>ork  or  22  ounces 
salt  beef. 

23 


24 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY    COOKS. 
1.  GARRISON  RATION— Continued. 


Component- 


Substitutiv( 


Articles. 

Quanti- 
ties. 

Articles. 

Quanti- 
ties. 

Beef,  fresh  (Con.) . . . 

Ounces. 

Hash,  corned-beef,  when  impracticable 

to  furnish  fresh  meat. 
Fish,  dried 

Ounces. 
16 

18 

14 

Fish,  pickled 

18 

Fisb,  fanned. ,           

16 

Flour 

Turkey,  dressed,  drawn,  on  Thanks- 
giving  Day   and   Christmas,   when 
practicable. 

Soft  bread  

16 

18 

Hard  bread,  to  be  ordered,  issued  only 
when  the  mterests  of  the  Government 

16 

.08 
2.4 

20 
1.28 

so  require. 

20 

Baking  powder 

Beans 

Rice 

1.6 

Hominy       

1.6 

Potatoes  1 

Potatoes  canned. 

15 

Prunes 

Onions,  m  lieu  of  an  eaual  quantity  of 
potatoes,  but  not  exceeding  20  per 
cent  of  total  issue. 

Tomatoes,  canned,  in  lieu  of  an  equal 
quantity  of  potatoes,  but  not  exceed- 
ing 20  per  cent  of  the  total  issue. 

Other  fresh   vegetables   (not  canned) 
when  they  can  be  obtained  in  the 
vicinity  or  transported  in  a  wholesome 
condition  from  a  distance,  in  lieu  of  an 
equal  quantity  of  potatoes,  but  not 
exceeding  30  per  cent  of  total  issue. 

1.28 

Peaches,  dried  or  evaporated 

1.28 

Jam,  in  lieu  of  an  equal  quantity  of 
prunes,  but  not  exceeding  50  per  cent 
of  total  issue. 

1  In  Alaska  the  allowance  of  fresh  vegetables  will  be  24  ounces  instead  of  20  ounces, 
or  canned  potatoes,  18  ounces  instead  of  15  oimces. 


MANUAL   FOR  ABMY   COOKS. 
1.  GARRISON  RATION— Continued. 


25 


Component— 


Substitutive— 


Articles. 


Quanti- 
ties. 


Articles. 


Quanti- 
ties. 


Coffee,  roasted  and 
ground. 

Sugar 

Milk,     evaporated, 

unsweetened. 
Vinegar 

Salt 

Pepper,  black 

Cinnamon 

Lard 

Butter 

Sirup 

Flavoring    extract, 
lemon. 


Ounces. 
1.12 


3.2 
.5 


Coffee,  roasted,  not  ground. 

Coffee,  green 

Tea,  black  or  green 


Ounces. 
1.12 
1.4 


2.16 


.64 
.04 
.014 


.5 
J. 32 
.014 


Pickles,  cucumber,  in  lieu  of  an  equal 
quantity  of  vinegar,  but  not  exceed- 
ing 50  per  cent  of  total  issue. 


Cloves 

Ginger 

Nutmeg 

Lard  substitute. 
Oleomargarine.. 


.014 

.014 

.014 

.64 

,5 


Vanilla. 


.014 


»Gill. 

Note.— Food  for  troops  traveling  on  United  States  Army  transports  will  be 
prepared  from  the  articles  of  subsistence  stores  which  compose  the  ration  for  troops 
in  garrison,  varied  by  the  substitution  of  other  articles  of  authorized  subsistence 
stores,  the  total  daily  cost  per  man  of  the  food  consumed  not  to  exceed  20  per  cent 
more  than  the  current  cost  of  the  garrison  ration,  except  on  Thanksgiving  Day  and 
Christmas,  when  60  per  cent  increase  over  the  same  current  cost  is  authorized. 


26 


MANUAL.  FOR  ARMT   COOKS. 
2.  TRAVEL  RATION. 


Component- 

Substitutive— 

Articles. 

Quanti- 
ties. 

Articles. 

Quanti- 
ties. 

Soft  bread 

Ounces. 
18 
12 

4 

8 

1.4 

1.12 

2.4 
.5 

Hard  bread 

Ounces. 
16 

Beef,  corned 

Hash,  comed-beef                   

12 

Toniatoes,  canned... 

Coffee   roasted  and 

ground. 
Susar 

Mflk,     evaporated, 
unsweetened. 

3.  RESERVE  RATION. 


Bacon. 

Or  meat,  canned 

Hard  bread 

Coffee,  roosted  and 
ground. 

Sugar 

Sift 


12 
16 
16 
1.12 

2.4 

.16 


One  day  in  each  alternate  month  of  the  season  of  practical  instruc- 
tion, not  exceeding  three  days  in  each  year,  the  use  of  the  reserve 
ration  with  iiidividual  coolring  will  be  required  by  all  troops  in  the 
field  for  purpose  of  instruction. 


4.    HELD  RATION. 


The  field  ration  is  the  ration  presciibed  in  orders  by  the  com- 
mander of  the  field  forces.  It  consists  of  the  reserve  ration  in  whole 
oi  in  part,  supplemented  by  articles  of  food  requisitioned  or  pur- 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 


27 


chased  locally,  or  shipped  from  the  rear,  provided  such  supplements 
or  substitutes  correspond  generally  with  the  component  articles  or 
substitutive  equivalents  of  the  garrison  ration. 


5.  FILIPINO  RATION. 


Component — 

Substitutive— 

Articles. 

Quanti- 
ties. 

Articles. 

Quanti- 
ties. 

Beef,  fresh 

Ounces. 
12 

8 
.32 

20 
8 
1 

2 

1.08 
.64 
.02 

Bacon 

Ounces. 

8: 

C,tt,r\  nftrj  mftftt  ,.,..,, 

g. 

Fish,  canned '.. 

12 

Fish,  firesh 

12 

Flour 

Hara  bread 

g 

Soft  bread 

s. 

Bakingpo^rder, 
when  in  field  and 
ovens    are   not 
available. 

Rice,  unpolished 

Potatoes 

Onions , 

9 

Coffee,  roasted  and 

ground. 
Sugar 

Vinecar         

sait^„::::::;:::::: 

, , 

Pepper,  black 

iQfll. 


Scout  organizations  will  be  required  to  use  the  entire  allowance 
of  the  meat  component,  and  not  more  than  16  ounces  of  rice  per 
day  to  be  used  for  each  ration.  The  purchase  of  1.6  ounces  of 
beans  per  ration  in  substitution  of  the  portion  of  the  rice  ration 
not  drawn  will  be  made,  and  use  of  as  large  an  extent  as  possible 
of  native  products,  such  as  camotes,  mongos,  and  squash,  will  be 
required. 


28  MANUAL  FOB  ABMY  COOKS. 

6.   EMERGENCY  RATION. 

The  emergency  ration  is  furnished,  in  addition  to  the  regular 
ration,  as  required  for  troops  on  active  campaign  or  in  the  field  for 
purposes  of  instruction,  and  will  not  be  opened  except  by  order  cf 
an  officer  or  in  extremity,  nor  used  \men  regular  rations  are 
obtainable. 

Ration  returns  upon  which  emergency  rations  are  drawn  will 
bear  the  certificate  of  the  organization  commander  that  such  rations 
are  required  for  the  enlisted  men  of  his  organization  and  that  the 
money  value  of  any  rations  previously  drawn  by  him,  and  improp- 
erly opened  or  lost,  has  been  charged  against  the  person  responsible. 

Company  and  detachment  commanders  are  responsible  for  the 
proper  care  and  use  of  emergency  rations  carried  on  the  person  of 
the  soldier. 

All  articles  of  the  garrison,  travel,  or  Filipino  ration  due  a  company 
or  other  organization  will  be  retained  by  the  quartermaster  and 
credit  given  to  the  organization  for  the  money  value  of  these  articles 
at  the  current  price  of  the  articles,  and  the  quartermaster  will  pay 
as  savings  to  the  organization  conmianders  any  excess  in  value  of 
the  stores  so  retained  over  those  purchased  by  the  organization. 
Such  savings  diall  be  used  solely  for  the  purchase  of  articles  of  food. 

Wifen  on  the  march  in  time  of  peace  a  daily  issue  of  rations  will 
be  made  in  the  manner  prescribed  in  the  Field  Service  Regulations 
ior  the  time  of  war.  The  ration  to  be  issued  to  troops  on  the  march 
in  time  of  peace  will  be  prescribed  by  the  commander,  and  will 
not  exceed  the  allowances  prescribed  for  the  garrison  ration. 

In  time  of  peace  the  ration  savings"  privilege  will  be  suspended 
for  troops  on  the  march,  except  that  wnen  so  ordered  by  the  com- 
mander the  savings  privilege  will  be  allowed  on  certain  specified 
articles  of  the  ration. 

Upon  arrival  of  troops  at  mobilization  or  concentration  camps  the 
ration  savings  privilege  will  be  suspended  and  entirely  replaced 
by  issue  of  rations  in  kind.  This  same  restriction  also  applies 
during  the  period  of  field  operations. 

The  commanding  officer  will  designate  the  periods  for  which 
ration  returns  are  to  be  submitted.    Immediately  upon  the  receipt 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMY  COOKS.  29 

of  a  ration  return  by  the  quartermaster  duly  signed  and  approved 
he  will  enter  it,  together  with  the  actual  cost  of  the  ration  as  com- 
puted on  the  back  of  the  ration  and  savings  account.  The  stwes 
required  will  be  purchased  from  the  quartermaster  on  charge  sales 
slips,  in  the  name  of  the  organization,  agairilst  their  credit  shown 
on  the  account.  At  the  end  of  the  month,  or  whenever  necessary, 
the  organization  commander  will  settle  the  account  with  the  quar- 
termaster, when  the  savings  due  the  organization,  or  the  amount 
due  the  quartermaster,  as  the  case  may  be,  will  be  paid  and  the 
account  certified  as  required. 

AU  articles  of  the  ration  required  for  the  supply  of  troops  will  be 
obtained  from  the  quartermaster  when  on  hand,  but  if  any  article 
be  not  in  stock  a  temporary  supply  may  be  purchased  elsewhere. 

When  necessary  to  renew  reserve  rations  or  to  avoid  loss  of  ration 
articles  that  have  accumulated,  the  quartermaster  will  report  the 
facts  to  the  commanding  general  or  the  commanding  officer,  as  the 
case  may  be,  who,  if  he  considers  it  necessary  to  prevent  loss,  will 
give  in  writing  the  neces^ry  orders  looking  to  the  issue  of  such 
supplies  to  troops.  Such  issues  will  not  exceed  th§  ration  allow- 
ance and  will  be  continued  until  the  surplus  is  exhausted  or  until 
such  other  action  as  may  seem  advisable  can  be  taken  to  protect 
the  interest  of  ^he  Government. 

193.  On  account  of  the  variation  in  the  cost  of  the  ration  in 
different  localities,  the  ration  and  savings  account  should  be  settled 
upon  departure  from  a  post,  to  include  the  last  day  for  which  rations 
are  taken.  Upon  arrival  at  a  new  station  a  new  account  is  opened 
and  credit  given  at  the  prevailing  price  at  the  new  sta.don,  thus 
avoiding  any  pecuniar^'  loss  through  having  to  purchase  articles 
of  the  ration  at  prices  higher  than  those  upon  which  the  credit 
allowance  was  computed, 

RATION  TABLES. 

194.  The  cash  value  of  the  garrison  and  travel  ration  is  determined 
by  taking  the  percentages  of  the  several  components  and  substi- 
tutive articles  as  indicated  below  at  the  price  current  during  the 
month: 


30 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

Garrison  ration. 


Articles. 


Unit. 


Per 

cent. 


Quantity 
per  100 
rations. 


Cents 
per 


Value 
of  100 


Beef,  fresh 

Bacon,  issue.... 

Flour,  issue 

Baking  powder. 


Rice 

Potatoes,  fresh 

Onions,  fresh. 

Tomatoes,  canned 

Do 

Prunes 

Jam 

Apples,  evajwrated 

Peaches,  evaporated 

Coffee,  roasted  and  ground . 
Sugar. 


Hiik,  evaporated. 
Do 


Do 

Vinegar 

Pickles,  cucumber 

Salt 

Pepper,  black 

Cinnamon 

Lard,  issue 

Lard  substitute 

Butter 

Oleomargarine 

Sirup...... 

Flavoring  extract,  lemon. 

Do 

Cash  value  of  100  rations. 
Cash  value  of  1  ration 


Pound 

..--do 

-..-do 

No.  5Can 

Pound 

....do 

.-..do 

--..do 

Small  can 

No.  10  can 

Pound 

No.  2  can 

Pound 

....do 

....do 

....do 

12-ounce  can' . . 
16-ouncecan. .. 
32-ouncecan- .. 

Gallon 

do 

Pound 

No.  jean 

Pound 

do , 

do- :. 

do 

Gallon 

2-ounce  bottle. 
8-ounce  bottle  . 


70 

30 

100 

100 

50 

50 

70 

20 

10 

10 

30 

50 

10 

10 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

50 

50 

100 

100 

100 

50 

50 

50 

50 

100 

100 

100 


87.5 
22.5 
112.5 
1.0 
7.5 
5.0 
87.5 
25.0 
6.25 
1.923 
2.4 
2.539 
.8 
.8 
7.0 
20.0 
4.166 
3.125 
1.5625 
.25 
.25 
4.0 
1.0 
.35 
2.0 
2.0 
1.5625 
1.5625 
1.0 
.7 
.175 


195.  After  securing  a  price  list  of  ration  articles  from  the  quarter- 
master for  the  ensuin?  month,  the  mess  sergeant  should  consult  the 
preceding  table  in  order  to  fix  in  his  mind  the  quantities  and  value 
of  the  different  ration  articles  he  will  make  use  of  and  the  amounts 
he  wiU  leave  to  the  credit  of  the  organization. 


MANUAL   FOR  ABMY   COOKS. 


31 


He  should  make  a  saving  on  the  beef  component  in  order  to  pur- 
chase liver,  hearts,  fish,  pork,  chicken,  etc. 

From  the  savings  on  flour  he  should  purchase  prepared  breakfast 
food  and  oatmeal. 

From  the  savings  on  potatoes  he  should  purchase  cabbage,  sweet 
potatoes,  turnips,  and  fresl^  vegetables  in  season. 

A  proper  use  of  the  bean  component  will  enable  him  to  purchase* 
lima  beans  and  other  varieties  of  beans,  often  cheaper  than  the  issue 

The  savings  on  prunes  (dried  fruit)  may  be  used  when  the  different 
fresh  fruits  are  available  to  supply  a  change. 

The  stock  on  hand  in  the  storeroom  must  be  considered  in  order 
that  the  total  on  hand  will  not  exceed  the  requirements  for  the  period 
for  which  drawn.  . 

The  mess  sergeant  is  able  with  ease  to  purchase  quantities  suffi- 
cient to  run  the  mess  for  given  periods  without  having  an  excesa 
amount  of  stock  on  hand  at  the  end  of  the  ration  period.  This  wilk 
often  prevent  his  organization  from  being  in  debt  after  the  inventory 
of  subsistence  stores  near  the  end  of  the  month. 

19C.  The  preceding  table  should  be  memorized  by  the  mess  ser- 
geant and  the  cooks,  in  order  that  they  maj^  know  the  componenta 
on  which  the  cash  allowance  is  based.  While  under  ordinary  con- 
ditions in  garrison  or  permanent  camp  the  organization  may  be  on 
the  cash  allowance,  the  regulations  provide  for  an  issue  in  kind  while 
on  the  march  or  in  the  field. 

197.  The  following  table  is  of  especial  assistance  to  the  mess  ser- 
[  geant  when  rations  are  it-sued  in  kiiid: 


32                                           MANUAL   FOB  ARMY 

COOKS. 

Jffumber.ofjatioas, 

Beef,  fresh; 

mutton, 

fresh. 

Bacon. 

Beef,  • 

cornea; 

beef,  fresh 

roast;  hash,. 

corned  beef; 

fish, 

canned; 

turkey, 

drawn. 

Turkey, 
undrawn. 

Fish, 
dried. 

1 

2 

3.      .     . 

Pounds. 

1.25 

2.50 

3.75 

5.00 

6.25 

7.50 

8.75 

10.00 

11.25 

12.50 

25.00 

37.50 

50.00 

62.50 

75.00 

87.50 

100.00 

112.50 

125.00 

250.00 

375.00 

500.00 

625.00 

750.00 

875.00 

1,000.00 

1, 125. 00 

1,250.00 

Pounds. 

0.75 

1.50 

2.25 

3.00 

3.75 

4.50 

5.25 

6.00 

6.75 

7.50 

15.00 

22.50 

30.00 

37.50 

45,00 

52.50 

60.00 

67.50 

75.00 

150.00 

225.00 

300.00 

375.00 

450.00 

525.00 

600.00 

675.00 

750.00 

Pounds. 

1 
2 
3 

4 
5 
6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

20 

30 

40 

50 

60 

70 

80 

90 

100 

200 

300 

400 

500 

600 

700 

800 

900 

1,000 

Pounds. 

1.18 

2.37 

3.56 

4.75 

5.93 

7.12 

8.31 

9.50 

10. 68' 

11.87 

23.75 

35.62 

47.50 

59.37 

71.25 

83.12 

95.00 

106.87 

118.  75 

237.50 

305.  62 

475.00 

593.  75 

712.  50 

831.25 

950.00 

1,068.75 

1,187.50 

Poundt 
0. 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7.1 
7.; 

8.' 
17.. 
26.: 
35.  ( 
43.' 
52.  i 

61.: 

70.  ( 
78.: 
87..' 
175.  ( 
262.  i 
350.  ( 
437.  i 
525  ( 

4 

6 

6.. 

7 

8 

9.. 

10 

20 

30. 

40 

50 

60 

70 

80 

90 

100 

200 

300 

400 

500 

600 

700 

612  I 

800 

900 

1,000 

700.  ( 
787.  { 
875.  ( 

MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 


33 


Number  of  rations. 


Fish, 
pickled. 


Flour, 
soft 
bread. 


Hard 
bread. 


Com 

Baking 

meal. 

powder. 

Pounds. 

Can. 

1.25 

0.01 

2.50 

.02 

3.75 

.03 

5.00 

.04 

6.25 

.05 

7.50 

.06 

8.75 

.07 

10.00 

.08 

11.25 

.09 

12.50 

.10 

25.00 

.20 

37.50 

.30 

50.00 

.40 

62.50 

.50 

75.00 

.60 

87.50 

.70 

100.00 

.80 

112.50 

.90 

125.00 

1.00 

250.00 

2.00 

375.00 

3.00 

500.00 

4.00 

625.00 

5.00 

750.00 

6.00 

874.00 

7.00 

1,000.00 

8.00 

1,125.00 

9.00 

1,250.00 

10.00 

1.... 

2... 
3... 
4... 
5... 
6... 

7 

8... 
6... 
0.. 
2i0.. 
30.. 
40.- 
50.. 
60... 
70.. 
80.. 
90... 
100.. 
200.. 
300.. 
400.. 
500.. 
600.. 
700.. 
800.. 
900.. 
1,000. 


Pounds. 

1.12 

2.25 

3.37 

4.50 

5.62 

6.75 

7.87 

9.00 

10.12 

11.25 

22.50 

33.75 

45.00 

56.25 

67.50 

78.75 

90.00 

101.25 

112.50 

225.00 

337.50 

450.00 

562.00 

675.00 

787.50 

900.00 

1,012.50 

1, 125. 00 


Pounds. 

1.12 

2.25 

3.37 

4.50 

5.62 

6.75 

7.87 

9.00 

10.12 

11.25 

22.50 

33.75 

45.00 

56.25 

67.50 

78.75 

90.00 

101.25 

112.50 

225.00 

337.50 

450.00 

562. 50 

675:00 

787.50 

900.00 

1,012.50 

1, 125. 00 


Pounds. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 


10 

20 

30 

40 

50 

60 

70 

80 

90 

100 

200 

300 

400 

500 

600 

700 

800 

900 

1,000 


Pounds. 

0.15 

.30 

.45 

.60 

.75 

.90 

1.05 

1.20 

1.35 

1.50 

3.00 

4.50 

6.00 

7.50 

9.00 

10.50 

12.00 

13.50 

15.00 

30.00 

45.00 

60.00 

75.00 

90.00 

105.00 

120.00 

135.00 

150.00 


34 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 


Number  of  rations. 


•  Rice, 

Potatoes, 

fresh; 

onions, 

fresh; 

other 

Potatoes, 

Toma- 
toes, 
caimed. 

Prunes; 

apples, 

evaporated; 

hominy. 

canned. 

peaches, 

fresh 

evapor- 

vegetables. 

ated. 

SO-ounce 

Small 

Pounds. 

Pounds. 

,     can. 

can. 

Pounds. 

0.1. 

1.25 

0.5 

0.62 

0.08 

.2 

2.50 

1.0 

1.25 

.16 

.3 

3.75 

1.5 

1.87 

.24 

.4 

5.00 

2.0 

2.50 

.32 

.5 

6.25 

2.5 

3.12 

.40 

.6 

7.50 

3.0 

3.75 

.48 

.7 

8.75 

3.5 

4.37 

.56 

.8 

10.00 

4.0 

5.00 

.64 

.9 

11.25 

4.5 

5.62 

.72 

1.0 

12.50 

5.0 

6.25 

.80 

2.0 

25.00 

10.0 

12.50 

1.6 

3.0 

37.50 

15.0 

18.75 

2.4 

4.0 

50.00 

20.0 

25.00 

3.2 

6.0 

62.50 

25.0 

31.25 

4.0 

6.0 

75.00 

30.0 

37.50 

4.8 

7.0 

87.50 

35.0 

43.75 

5.6 

8.0 

100.00 

40.0 

50.00- 

6.4 

9.0 

112.50 

45.0 

56.25 

7.2 

10.0 

125.00 

50.0 

62.50 

8.0 

20.0 

250.00 

100.0 

125.00 

16.0 

30.0 

375.00 

150.0 

187.50 

24.0 

40.0 

500.00 

200.0 

250.00 

32.0 

50.0 

625.00 

250.0 

312.50 

40.0 

60.0 

750.00 

300.0 

375.00 

48.0 

70.0 

875.00 

350.0 

437.50 

56.0 

80.0 

1,000.00 

400.0 

600.00 

64.0 

90.0 

1,125.00 

•450.0 

562.50 

72.0 

100.0 

1,250.00 

500.0 

625.00 

80.0 

1.... 

2.... 
3.... 
4.... 
5.... 
6.... 
7.... 
8.... 
9.... 
10... 
20... 
30... 
40... 
50... 
60... 
70... 
80... 
90... 
100.. 
200.. 
300.. 
400.. 
500.. 
600.. 
700.. 
800.. 

i,(x6 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 


35 


Number  of  rations. 

Jam, 
black- 
berry. 

Coffee, 
roasted; 

coffee, 
roasted 

and 
ground. 

Coffee, 
green. 

Tea. 

Sugar. 

MUk, 
evapo- 
rated. 

1 

Can. 

0.05 

.10 

.15 

.20 

.25 

.30 

.36 

.41 

.46 

.51 

1.02 

1.52 

2.03 

2.54 

3.05 

3.56 

4.06 

4.57 

5.08 

10.16 

15.24 

20.32 

25.40 

30.47 

35.56 

40.63 

45.71 

50.79 

Pounds. 

0.07 

.14 

.21 

.28 

.35 

.42 

.49 

.56 

,63 

.70 

1.40 

2.10 

2.80 

3.50 

4.20 

4.90 

5.60 

6.30 

7.00 

14.00 

21.00 

28.00 

35.00 

42.00 

49.00 

56.00 

63.00 

70.00 

Pounds. 
0.0S7 
.175 
.262 
.350 
.437 
.525 
.612 
.700 
.787 
.875 
1.750 
2.625 
3.500 
4.375 
5.250 
6.125 
7.000 
7.875 
8.750 
17.500 
26.250 
35.000 
43.75 
52.50 
61.25 
70.00 
78.75 
87.50 

Pounds. 

0.02 

.04 

.06 

.08 

.10 

.12 

.14 

.16 

.18 

.20 

.40 

.60 

.80 

1.00 

1.20 

1.40 

1.60 

1.80 

2.00 

4.00 

6.00 

8.00 

10.00 

12.00 

14.00 

16.00 

18.00 

20.00 

Pounds. 

0.2 

.4 

.6 

.8 

.1 

1.2 

1.4 

1.6 

1.8 

2.0 

4.0 

6.0 

8.0 

10.0 

12.0 

14.0 

16.0 

18.0 

20.0 

40.0 

60.0 

80.0 

100.0 

120.0 

140.0 

160.0 

180.0 

200.0 

1-pound 
can. 
0.03 

2       

.06 

3                 

.09 

4 

.12 

5  

.16 

6                         

.19 

7 

.22 

8       

.25 

9 

.28 

10 

.31 

20                

.62 

30 

.94 

40 

1.25 

50                    .           

1.56 

60 

1.87 

70   

2.19 

80 

2.50 

90 

2.81 

100 

3.12 

200 

6.25 

300 

9.37 

400                  

12.50 

600 

15.62 

600 

18.75 

700 

21.87 

800 

25.00 

900 

28.12 

1,000   . 

31.25 

36 


MANUAL   FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 


Number  of  rations. 

pickfes, 
cucum- 
bers. 

Salt. 

Pepper. 

Cinna- 
mon, 
cloves, 
ginger. 

Nut- 
megs. 

Lard,  or 
lard  sub- 
stitute. 

1  . 

Oattons. 
0.005 
.010 
.015 
.020 
.025 
.030 
.035 
.040 
.045 
.05 
.10 
.15 
,       .20 
.25 
.30 
.35 
.40 
.45 
.50 
1.00 
1.50 
2.00 
2.50 
3.00 
3.50 
4.00 
4.50 
5.00 

Pounds. 
0.04 
.08 
.12 
.16 
.20 
.24 
.28 
.32 

:t§ 

.80 

1.20 

1.60 

2.00 

2.40 

2.80 

3.20 

3.60 

4.00 

8.00 

12.00 

16.00 

20.00 

24.00 

28.00 

32.00 

36.00 

40.00 

No.\ 
can. 
0.01 

.02 

.03 

.04 

.05 

.06 

.07 

.08 

.09 

.10 

.20 

.30 

.40 

.50 

.60 

.70 

.80 

.90 

1.00 

2.00 

3.00 

4.00 

5.00 

6.00 

7.00 

8.00 

9.00 

10.00 

No.\ 

can. 

0.003 

.007 

.010 

.014 

.017 

.021 

.024 

.028 

.031 

.035 

.070 

.100 

.140 

.170 

.210 

.240 

.280 

.310 

.350 

.700 

1.050 

1.400 

1.750 

2.100 

2.450 

2.800 

3.150 

3.500 

Ounces. 

0.01 

.02 

.04 

.05 

.07 

.08 

.09 

.11 

.12 

.14 

.28 

.42 

.56 

.70 

.84 

.98 

1.10 

1.20 

1.40 

2.80 

4.20 

5.60 

7.03 

8.40 

9.80 

11.20 

12.60 

11.00 

Pounds. 
0  04 

2 

08 

3 

12 

4 

.16 

6 

20 

6  .. 

24 

7 

.28 

8 

32 

9 

.36 

10 ,.  . 

40 

20                   

80 

30 .• 

1.20 

40 

1  60 

50                      .  . 

2  00 

60 

2.40 

70            

2  80 

80 

3.20 

90 

3.60 

100          ... 

4  00 

200 

8.00 

300 

12  00 

400           .   .   . 

16  00 

500 

20.00 

600 

24  00 

700                 .  .          ... 

28  00 

800 

32.00 

900 

36.00 

1,000         ... 

40  00 

MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 


87 


Number  of  rations. 

Butter, 
oleo- 
margarine. 

Sirup. 

Flavoring 
extract. 

1 

PouTid^. 

0.03 

.06 

.09 

.12 

.16 

.19 

.22 

.25 

.28 

.31 

.62 

.94 

1.25 

1.56 

1.87 

2.19 

2.50 

2.81 

3.12 

6.25 

9.37 

12.50 

15.62 

18.75 

21.87 

25.00 

28.12 

31.25 

OaUons. 
0.01 
.02 
.03 
.04 
.05 
.06 
.07 
.08 
.09 
.1 
.2. 
.3 
.4 
.5 
.6 
.7 
.8 
.9 
1.0 
2.0 
3.0 
4.0 
5.0 
6.0 
7.0 
8.0 
9.0 
10.0 

2-ounce 
bottle. 
0.007 

'2  .         .                

014 

3 

.021 

4         ■. 

.028 

5                                       .                          ... 

035 

6 

.042 

7               . .   :......:.... 

049 

8 

.05 

9      

.06 

10 

.07 

20 

.14 

30                                       ... 

21 

40 

.28 

50        

.36 

60 

.42 

70 

.49 

80 

.56 

90 

.63 

100                 .                     ... 

7 

200 .-^ 

1.4 

300 

2  1 

400 

2.8 

500 

3  5 

600 

4.2 

700 

4.9 

800  ..   .                                      ... 

5  6 

900 

6.3 

1,000 

7  0 

HOW  TO  KEEP  WITHIN  THE  LIMITS  OF  THE  CREDIT  ALLOWANCE  OF  THE 
GARRISON    RATION    DAY   BY   DAY. 


198.  Due  to  the  fact  that  the  monthly  inventory  of  subsistence 
stores  is  taken  at  any  time  from  the  23d  to  the  27th  of  the  month, 
it  is  almost  impossible  for  the  organization  commander  to  keep  an 
accurate  check  on  his  ration  allowance.  For  example,  the  date  6f 
this  inventory  may  vary  one  day  in  an  organization  of  100  men, 


38  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY  COOKS. 

increasing  or  diminishing  by  about  $25  the  cash  credit  of  the  organi- 
zation for  that  month. 

The  ration  return  is  usually  submitted  on  the  first  day  of  each 
month,  based  on  the  strength  of  the  organization  aa  shown  by  the 
morning  report  of  the  last' day  of  the  preceding  month.  The  addi- 
tions or  deauctions  for  the  preceding  month  are  credited  or  deducted 
on  this  ration  return. 

If  the  number  of  men  fed  during  the  month  remained  constant,  the 
mess  sergeant  could  base  his  expenditures  on  his  cash  credit  for  the 
month.  But  as  this'  number  changes  from  day  to  day,  the  amount 
expended  each  day  should  be  based  on  the  actual  number  rationed 
that  day. 

It  frec^uently  happens  that  the  mess  sergeant  fails  to  allow  for  the 
changes  in  the  number  of  men  he  feeds  during  the  month  and  bases  his. 
expenditures  on  his  ration  allowance  computed  by  the  quarter- 
master from  his  last  ration  return.  Thus,  if  the  strength  of  the 
company  is  70  men  and  the  month  has  30  days  and  the  value  of  the 
ration  is  25  cents,  his  ration  return  will  call  for  2,100  rations,  or  $525. 
If  he  has  to  prepare  200  additional  rations  during  the  month,  he 
should  allow  nis  company  $575  instead  of  $525.  On  the  other  hand, 
if  there  is  a  reduction  in  the  number  of  men  fed,  causing  a  deduction 
of  200  rations  prepared  during  the  month,  he  should  allow  his  com- 
pany $475  instead  of  $525.  If  he  does  not  allow  for  this  deduction, 
he  will  find  it  necessary  to  reduce  his  allowance  per  man  the  follow- 
ing month  so  as  to  avoid  running  into  debt.  Thus,  it  happens  that 
the  mess  sergeant  frequently  feeds  the  company  bountifully  one 
month  and  scantily  the  next,  because  he  considers  his  credit  with 
the  quartermaster  for  that  month  instead  of  his  daily  allowances  aa 
shown  bjr  the  morning  report. 

For  tms  reason  it  is  better  to  run  the  mess  on  a  daily  cash  basis 
computed  from  the  strength  of  the  organization  present  each  day 
as  shown  by  the  morning  report. 

The  sergeant  computes  the  cash  value  of  a  ration  for  the  current 
month  as  per  table  in  paragraph  194  or  obtains  the  same  from  the 
Quartermaster.  Each  day  he  computes  the  cash  allowance  for  that 
aay  and  takes  care  to  see  that  the  cooks  do  not  exceed  it  or  that 
they  exceed  it  only  when  a  saving  has  previously  been  made  to 
cover  the  excess. 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  39 

If  in  the  field,  on  the  march,  or  at  mobilization  camps,  it  will  be 
necessary  for  the  command  to  subsist  on  the  ration  in  kind.  The 
mess  sergeant  should  each  day  compute  the  allowance  of  the  com- 
ponents authorized  in  orders  for  the  number  of  men  present  for  rations 
carried  on  the  morning  report  of  the  organization.  Care  should  be 
taken  to  see  that  this  allowance  is  not  exceeded  for  that  day  in  the 
preparation  of  the  bill  of  fare,  except  when  a  saving  has  previously 
oeen  made. 

The  table  in  paragraph  197  will  prove  useful  in  computing  this 
allowance  in  kind  when  drawing  or  issuing,  on  the  march  or  in  mobi- 
lization camps. 

The  general  scheme  of  figuring  the  bill  of  fare  one  day  ahead  should 
be  followed,  and  in  doing  this  the  ingredients  to  be  used  in  the  various 
dishes  for  each  meal  should  be  set  down  on  a  memorandum  or  scratch 
pad  and  an  accurate  record  kept  of  the  value  of  all  articles  used  for 
the  bill  of  fare.  See  copy  of  scratch  pad  memorandum  in  connection 
with  the  following  bill  of  fare. 

This  method  will  at  first  appear  irksome  and  unnecessary',  but  it  is 
the  only  positive  method  of  keeping  track  of  the  daily  ration  allow- 
ance either  on  a  cash  basis  in  garrison  or  when  drawing  rations  in  kind 
in  the  field,  on  marches,  or  in  camp. 

The  ingredients  on  the  memorandum  are  copied  on  the  bill  of  fare 
when  the  meal  is  prepared.  The  memorandum  is  then  destroyed 
and  the  bill  of  fare  serves  as  a  voucher  by  means  of  which  the  com- 
pany commander  checks  the  stores  on  hand. 

A  model  "Daily  report"  and  a  model  ''Daily  mess  statement"  are 
also  shown  on  pages  28  and  29  A. 

The  daily  mess  statement  is  the  daily  statement  required  of  the 
orranization  mess  sergeant.    See  paragraph  270. 

The  daily  report  is  made  up  by  the  first  sergeant  and  turned  over  to 
the  mess  sergeant  each  mormng.  It  shows  the  number  of  men  to  be 
present  for  the  three  meals — dinner,  supper,  and  breakfast — and  is 
filed  by  the  mess  sergeant  as  a  voucher  to  the  Daily  mess  statement. 
See  first  two  lines  top  of  Model  daily  mess  statement,  "Number  of 
men  in  mess." 


40 


MANUAL   FOB   ARMY    COOKS. 


Bill  of  fare. 
[Organization:  Prison  guard  mess.    Date:  Aug.  14  and  15, 1916.] 


SUPPEE. 

Stew  EI  Rancho, . . 


Steamed  rice 

Assorted  rolls,  butter . 


Stewed  tomatoes. 
Apple  pies 


Ice  tea. 


Cost  of  supper.. 

BREAKFAST. 

Com  flakes  and  milk. . 


Egg  omelet 

Baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Bread 

Iced  cantaloupe 

Cofiee  and  milk 


Cost  of  breakfast. 

DINNEE. 

Spanish  fish  sauce 


Spanish  style  fish 

Mashed  potatoes 

Cream  peas 

Bread,  butter 

Sliced  tomatoes  and  onions. 


Tapioca  pudding, 
loe  water 


Ingredients. 


1  can  pepper,  1  pound  salt,  2  cans  tomatoes, 
12  pounds  beef,  3  pounds  onions,  1  bunch 
carrots,  1  bunch  turnips,  5  pounds  cabbage, 
10  pounds  potatoes 

4  pounds  rice 

15  pounds  flour,  1  pound  sugar,  2  pounds  lard, 

2  ounces  yeast,  2  pounds  butter. 

5  cans  tomatoes 

6  pounds  flour,  3  pounds  sugar,  3  pounds 
lard,  1  gallon  apples,  1  package  cornstarch. 

4  ounces  tea,  2  pounds  sugar 


6  packages  com  flakes,  2  cans  milk,  1  pound 
sugar. 

10  dozen  eggs,  3  cans  milk,  1  pound  lard 

20  poimds  sweet  potatoes 

18  pounds  bread 

2J  dozen  cantaloupes 

2\  pounds  coffee,  1  can  milk,  4  pounds  sugar. 


Cost. 


$2.19 


.20 
1.40 


,31 


5.65 


.68 

2.30 
.40 
.45 
.55 
.74 

5.12 


2  pounds  onions.  1  can  tomatoes,  1  pound 
flour,  1  pound  lard. 

20  pounds  red  fish 

22  pounds  potatoes,  1  can  milk 

8  cans  peas,  1  can  milk 

18  pounds  bread ,  2  pounds  butter 

^  crate  tomatoes,  2  pounds  onions,  1  quart 
vinegar. 

2  pounds  tapioca.  2  pounds  peaches  (evapo- 
rated), 4  pounds  sugar. 

100  pounds  ice 


Cost  of  dinner ., 

Total  cost  of  day 16. 91 


.30 

2.00 
.61 
.72 

1.08 


.71 
.IS 
6.14 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY    COOKS.  41 

Value  of  ration $0. 2859 

Saving 24 

Savings  to  date : : 4. 73 

Number  of  rations  due,  60= .  17  15 

Short ^i $ 

Shortage  to  date % 

Bill  of  fare  prepared  by: 

Mesa  sergeant 

Meals  prepared  by: 

First  cook 

Second  cook 

Verified  by: 

Mess  Sergeant. 
Daily  mess  report. 

Organization Date 

Rationa  credited  this  date 

DINNER. 

Men  present  for  dinner 

Men  absent  from  dinner 

To  be  served  at m. 

SUPPER. 

Men  present  for  supper 

Men  absent  from  supper , 

To  be  served  at p.m. 


42  MANUAL  FOE  ABMY   COOKS. 

BREAKFAST. 

Men  present  for  breaicfast 

Men  absent  from  breakfast 


First  Sergeant. 

This  slip  to  be  prepared  by  the  organization  first  sergeant  for  the 
mess  sergeant  by  8  a.  m. 

A  bill  of  fare  based  on  the  ration  in  kind  can  be  readily  prepared 
by  consulting  the  table  in  paragraph  197,  showing  the  Quantity  of 
the  different  components  and  substitutive  articles  allowed  per 
ration.  The  mess  sergeant  or  cook  can  quickly  ascertain  the  amounts 
of  the  different  ingredients  he  should  use  for  the  da^.  This  table 
should  be  used  on  a  cash  basis  as  well  as  when  drawing  the  ration 
in  kind.  This  in  order  that  there  will  be  no  confusion  when  sub- 
sisting under  the  different  methods  prescribed  in  orders. 

The  various  schools  for  bakers  and  cooks  have  blank  forms  for 
keeping  mess  accounts.  These  consist  of  bills  of  fare,  stock  sheets 
or  daily  mess  statements,  and  daily  reports.  They  can  be  secured 
upon  application  to  the  schools  direct. 

The  following  bills  of  fare  have  been  prepared  as  a  general  guide 
for  winter  and  summer.    They  are  merely  offered  as  suggestions. 


SuggejsUd  method  of  keeping  track  0/  ingredient  . 
(.\ugustl4»ndl5,19I6) 

stdfor  0 

ne  da:,. 

1 

Bin  of  (are. 

Total  .•itoct. 

supper.           , 

Breakfast. 

Dinner. 

ITc^o' 

ri«. 

b"ea4.' 

Stewed 
tomatoes. 

Apple 
pios. 

Iced  tea. 

fa-S 

and 
milk. 

oS.-! 

Baked 
svrcet 
potatoes. 

Hrea<l. 

Iced 

Co.ee 

sauce. 

'i'" 

Ha.<ihed 
potatoes. 

Cream 
peas. 

Brea<l, 
butter. 

Sliced 
tomatoes 

oSoD.l. 

pl«. 

'toe 
water. 

1 
10 

::::^ 

■•••■■■'J 

i' 

3 

z:z 

::::I- 

• 

:::::: 

::::',"  : 
:::: 

t 

= 

:::::::::: 

, 

IK?;!: 

i%. 

IS' 

6  packages. 

gisis. 

i  crate. 
Iff- 

:::;: 

M 

■■■"$2;66 

2S!nflat«. 

if" 

"i6.26' 

li 

2" 

■■"'i();c6 

2 

■■,oT2 

pS^*'- 

""$1:46 

■«6;5i' 

'i 

■  'ii:&i 

so.'ai 

-fi,;^- 

»2dO 

■■■»6:i6 

""io'.i'b 

To.a^oes,,r«h  . 
?222S,ev.po™«d 

::;i 

:......:•: 

■■"in; 74 

■■■■jaio 

■■■■»6;72 

■■'■»i;6s 

xri-s; 

SV2 

Ions 

due 

...     $0.2* 

ai 

(To  lace  page  43.)    No.  1 


42 

Men 
Men 


Th 
mess 

A 
by  e 
the 
ratio 
of  th 
shou 
in  ki 
sietir 

Th 
keep 
or  d£ 
upoD 

Th 
for-w 


DaUij  mat  tlalemenl. 
(OrganUalion:  nakas  and  cooks.    Month:  (irloWr. 


Date 

. 

^ 

3 

^ 

^ 

' 

10 

'V 

n 

H 

1.-, 

16 

'^ 

1. 

.0            » 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

W 

r 

2. 

29 

30 

11 

Nombcro  me 

37 

3- 

37 

..r 

37 

37 

37 

37 

37 

37 

37 

:i9 

39 

59 

0. 

59 

59 

53 

47 

47 

47 

47 

" 

" 

" 

47 

47 

« 

47 

47 

4- 

JIBoinuireporloOraliolls. 

Sto,^. 

Bmught 

10 
20 

'^ 

20 

49^ 

20 
20 

S 

S, 

38 

35 

^ 

35 

75 
35 

s 

30 
13 

30 
13 

ii 

■•?§ 

Ta 

00 

30 

36 

45 

""ii" 

20 
13 

13 

Pa 

50 

4« 

BeeUnsh pomids.. 

» 

6* 
13 

K 

S^;;;;::::;:;:::  ::::;:£::: 

". 

16 

15 

....".. 

....'.'.. 

«i 

6 

^. 

f.. 

22 

26 

IS 

""is" 

M 

12 

a 

11 

» 

'.. 

".. 

....... 

...._. 

» 

g^^>^e» 3S'   • 

6,5 

isSlr^"'     ■  ■   '  •  "  dS"' 

■■20- 



" 

ZK. 

....J... 

10 

10 

..... 

_S 

: ;  ■:: 

25 

;::::;: 



?5 

,..|-;;;:;: 

is^ii:-:ii 

Coramoal do... 

gSS;S.::::::::::;.:;.::::^S::;: 

Beans,  Hdney do... 

?S;^f-;:::::::::::::|:::: 

m' 

•■■■■??' 
34 



1; 

i 
....... 

20 
I 

30 

"27" 
12 

1 

........ 

i 

29 

" 

18 

15 

16 

.:::,.:: 

26 
-2.5- 

■■■i2' 

i 

■■■  io' 
\l 

i 



1 

"20  ' 

i 

40- 

25 

•■.5- 

•■i5- 

■■'is' 

-40 

-35' 

-25- 

'25  ■ 

...... 

- '26- 

....... 

■■46' 

""is 

-'io' 

-ii" 

........ 

■••»• 

....... 

"■■js" 

« 

172 

?I 
25 

17 

i 
35 

1 

15 

15 
10 

3I 

i 

I 
35 

1 
30 

108 

1? 

1? 

29 
30 
30 

90 

! 
I 
1? 

30 

I? 
21 

! 

i 

so 

75 

54 

J? 

'i 
12 

i 

ii 
'J 

24 
30 
30 

5 
ii 

1 

30 

1 
350 

'5S 

66 
16 

1 

i 
5 

1 
6 

'1 
12 

24 

25 

J 

1 

10 
12 

i 

15 

1 

6 

i 

I 
1 

i| 

13 

90 

■ 

26 
25 
10 

i 
12 

1 

26 
25 

40 
12 

i 

30 
'? 
24 

! 

300 

1 
1 

1 

210 

4 

'^2 

1 
2!' 

'5 

i 
20 

1^ 

110 

i 
1 

5 

1 
i 

1 

230 
48 

-85 
80 

26 

1 

J 

1 

SO 

i 
1 

4 

ao 

■■75 

S  pounds 

i 

M 
20 

ar<S^:::::::::::;;:::t:::: 

i«' 

36' 

2 

2 
•,2- 

1 
10 

■7? 

1 

■27' 

2 

1 

2 
1 

27 

12 

J 
y 

i 
5 

2 
1 

i 

1 

130 

90 

I 

It? 

?rj?.;::::;:::::::::::::.'"';r:; 
|£S^?£r^.:;::::::::::t::; 

24 

24 

24 

24 

24- 

24 

24 

24. 

24 

24 

24 

24 

24 

24 

21 

24 

24 

24 

24 

24 

24 

at 

o;a  pound. :::.::;;:;;;;.: 

0.8  pound 

26 

20 

26 

15 

15 

15 

15 

192 

170 

170 

148 

120 

100 

90 

70 

30 

20 

336 

321) 

300 

250 

225 

30O 

I.iO 

125 

125 

125 

125 

Sfl«;^."'.''°''.*""°':::'".d"o'':: 

22i 

22i 

20J 

i«i 

13i 

lOJ 

Ji 

50 

47 

44 

41 

38 

35 

32 

29 

25 

20 

15 

6 

3 

50 

45 

30 

25 

■     25 

25 

20 

20 

20 

20 

20 

?SS^::::::::::::::;::::::t::: 

*l 

4i 

4 

31 

3J 

3J 

3 

3 

2J 

2 

i 

1 

i 

} 

i 

i 

» 

1 

i 

I 

i 

1 

J 

i 

i 

i 

i 

» 

i^, ,„s- 

i 

i 

M 

i 

195 
108 

1 

175 
19*7 

1 

155 
"1 

.3J 
1 

i 

50 

150 
1 

130 
1 

no 
3 

A 

175 

1 

65 

55 

128 
2 

70 
4I 

4S 

45 

30 
"1 

5 

90 

40 

10 

100 

75 

100 

75 

50 

45 

iw 

llfii'btaik Si^-- 

Jpounds    

Jl 

'3 

"? 

M 
40 

1 
3i 

$6 
J 

80 
J 

1 
15' 

ll' 

1 
10 

2 
10 

1 

70 

bJS^pJ^^:::::::::;:;::^:; 

60 

50 

J.125poan'<te 

1 

1 
\ 
'1 

J8 
2 

■■■36' 

1 
2 

■■so" 

21 
I 

■■'20' 

i 
1 

■■■a 

J 

i' 
I 

6 

12 

2 

6 
11 

—45- 

1 

1 

1 

2 

38 

35 

■•■30 

25 

19 

1 

1 

n 

3 
1 

10 

3 

I 
2 

I 
I 

3 
I 

1 

1 

1 
1. 

1 

1 

2 

1 

'2 

J 

a 
1 

1 

ii 

&^.== 

4 

i. 

3 

i 

i 

3 

i 

— m 

1 

' 

|fe:;:::::::::;::: 

P"'iil^ 

2 

t 

1 

J 

! 

i 

....,;. 

'j 

I 

{ 

••"■»■■ 

■•29 

....... 

1 

I 

■■"ie" 

1 
■■■'26' 

— ii- 

— iV 

"a" 

1 

— »• 

........ 

........ 

— is- 

"ik" 

....... 

...... 

io' 

:;::::: 

." 

...     . 



Value  o(  stock 

<3S.OO 

M1.99 

«51.76 

189.13 

«76.28 

we.  13 

$70.16 

,73.56  j, 71.78 

•<B.28 

•65.05 

162.80 

•62.20 

t61.3I 

M4.34 

J61.44 

172.32 

,63.05 

156.98 

»I5.5> 

,53.28 

W9.80 

K1.43 

,54. 65 

,6.71 

W3.03 

,47.91 

W1.72 

«7.a3 

,5*27 

waoi 

KOTS 

42 

Men 
Men 


Tl 
mes! 

A 
by  ( 
the 
ratic 
of  tl 
ehou 
in  k 
sistij 

Tl 
keet 
or  d; 
upoi 

Tl 


1>AILV  PrRCHASES. 


I-urchawd- 

.™„.„.. 

Date. 

Pureh^sed- 

Amount. 

,.ate. 

lMr-ha«d- 

Date. 

<ju»rl«r- 

Post  M- 

chmg.. 

Beet. 

B... 

Kr 

,S; 

<^^_f- 

Post  ex- 

Bee.. 

Broad. 

»*T„" 

.ii-s. 

Qaarter- 

Postex- 
ehange. 

Beef. 

Bread. 

rc7 

lanoous. 

•36.00 
M.IM 

Brauiht  rorward 

li 

«32.ia 

J21.07 

11.86 

t24.S8 
5.70 

11 
« 
,11 

13:67 

"i:?! 

«»4.46 
5.80 

»3I.90 

1:JS 

•65.47 

"IS 

1298.93 

J7.M 

I 

110.04 

13.33 

°«-|::::;:;;;:;;:;;:;::::::;;::::; 

■■■^.n 

Sl.W 

j-ef 

«8:JJ 

3.39 

i;» 

12.74 

2!  40 
4.H1 

i 

1.30 

9.88 

l§:g 

i 

I:?, 

5.S5' 

ti.m 

i-io' 

6.06 

7.32 

10.13 

13.  «3 

1.95 

?:5i 

i 

3.30 

i.n 

4!  40 

it.?? 

■  •io.a 

5:55 

3.93 

8.62 

6.i6- 

3.16 

Carrieil  rarivard 

45. 7S 

»» 

21.0: 

1.86 

.4.. 

160.48 

81.69 

64.46 

31.90 

3.14 

65.47 

17.27 

298.93 

12..05 

81.  J3 

31.90 

12.90 

87.77 

J3.87 

395.72 

. 

STATEMENT  OF  ACCOUNTS  FOR  MONTH. 


1.390  men  ted,  at  22  cents;  value  of  ration. . 

Received  hvm  boarders.. 

AUonance  from  fund 


Stock  on  hand  t 
Quartermaster  ( 
Post  exchange 


Tolal 
I  cer(ity  the  a 


42 

Mer 
Mer 


T] 
mesi 

A 
hy  ( 

the 
ratic 
of  tl 
Bhou 
in  k 
sisti: 

Tl 
keei 
or  d; 
upoi 

Tl 
buy 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

Bills  of  fare  for  one  week. 


43 


SUMMER. 
BREAKFAST. 


Breakfast  foods, 
fruits,  etc. 

Vegetables. 

Meats. 

Drinks. 

Bread,  butter, 
etc. 

1 

2 
3 

Battercakes, 

sirup. 
Fresh  apples.... 

Com  flakes  and 

milk. 
Iced  cantaloupe. 

Oatmeal  and 

milk. 
Grape  nuts  and 

mUk. 
French  toast, 

simp. 

Fried  potatoes... 

Creamed  pota- 
toes. 

French  fried  po- 
tatoes. 

Lyonaise  pota- 
toes. 

French  baked 
potatoes. 

Fried  potatoes... 

German   boiled 
potatoes. 

Fried  pork  sau- 
sage, gravy. 
Hash  on  toast. . . 

Fried  eggs 

Coffee... 

...do 

...do 

Bread  and  but- 
ter. 
Do. 

Hot     biscuits 

4 

5 

6 

7 

Fried  liver  and 

onions. 
Fried     Vienna 

sausage,  gravy. 
Cheese  omelet... 

Soft-boiled  eggs.. 

...do 

...do 

...do 

...do 

butter. 

Toast  and  but- 
ter. 

Bread. 

Hot  rolls  and 

butter. 
Bread. 

. 

Soups. 

Vegetables, 
salads,  etc. 

Meats,  etc. 

Desserts. 

Breads. 

Drinks. 

1 

Vegetable, 

French    fried 

Baked  beans 

Plum  pud- 

Bread... 

Coffee. 

with  crou- 

potatoes, 
piccalilli 

and  bacon. 

ding    and 

tons. 

sauce. 

salad,  toma- 
to ketchup. 

Mashed  pars- 
nips,Ger- 
man boiled 
potatoes. 

Baked   sweet 

2 

Potato 

Fried    fish, 

Rice     pud- 

Bread, 

Ice  water. 

chowder. 

t  omato 

ding   and 

butter. 

sauce. 

sauce. 

3 

Cream  of 

Beefsteak 

Bread  pud- 

Hot rolls. 

Do. 

cabbage. 

potatoes, 
green  com. 

and    on- 
ions. 

ding   and 
sauce. 

4 

Bean  soup.. 

Creamed  pota- 

Roast veal, 

Brown  Bet- 

Parker- 

Do. 

toes,  boiled 

gravy. 

ty. 

house 

beets,  let- 

rolls, 

tuce  salad. 

44 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 


BUls  o  J  fare  for  one  week — Continued. 

SUMMER — continued . 

DINNEE— continued. 


Soups. 

Vegetables, 
salads,  etc. 

Meats,  etc. 

Desserts. 

Breads. 

Drink*? 

5 

Pur^e  of 

Candied  sweet 

Beef  loaf  and 

Tapioca 

Bread... 

Ice  water. 

vegetable. 

potatoes, 
cream  ed 

gravy. 

pudding. 

cabbage, 

radishes. 

«6 

Com  chow- 

Browned po- 

Soft    roast 

Lemon  pies. 

Bread, 

Do. 

der. 

t  a  t  0  e  s  , 
mashed  car- 
rots, boiled 

beef, 
gravy. 

butter. 

7 

Cream  of 

greens. 
Mashed  pota- 
toes, sliced 

Beef    a    la 

Plain  cake. . 

Jenny 

Lemonade. 

celery. 

mode. 

Linds. 

tomatoes, 
mashed 

squash. 

Vegetables  and!*  salads. 


Candied  sweet  potatoes, 

sliced  tomatoes. 
Potato  salad,  green  on- 
ions, pickled  beets. 
Baked   potatoes,   sliced 

tomatoes. 
Fried  egg  plant,   hash 

brown  potatoes. 
Baked  potatoes,  lettuce 

salad. 
German  fried  potatoes, 

sliced  pickles. 
French  fried    potatoes, 

sliced  tomatoes. 


Meats,  etc. 


Macaroni     and 

cheese. 
Cold  roast  beef. . 

Stuffed  peppers. 

Mutton  stew 

Pan  stew 

Chopsuey  hash. 

Hamburger 
steak,  gravy. 


Hot  rolls,  sauces, 
etc. 


Parkerhouse  rolls, 

apple  pie. 
Bread 


Tea  buns,  stewed 
peaches,  bread. 

Bread,  stewed 
prunes. 

Bread,  butter 


Com  muffins,  gin- 
ger bread. 
Currant  buns 


Drinks. 


Iced  tea. 

Do. 

Da 
Lemonade. 
Iced  tea. 

Do. 

Iced  tea, 
lemons. 


with 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

Bills  of  fare  for  one  week — Continuea. 


45 


WINTER. 
BREAKFAST. 


Breakfast  foods, 
fruits,  etc. 


Fried  com  meal 
mush,  sirup. 

Oatmeal  and 
milk. 

Milk  toast 


Boiled  rice  and 

milk. 
Hot  cakes,  sirup. 

Comflakes.milk. 


Vegetables. 


French     baked 

potatoes. 
French  fried  po- 


German  boiled 
potatoes. 

French  fried  po- 
tatoes. 

Creamed  pota- 
toes. 

Fried  potatoes . . 

Lyonnaise  pota- 
toes. 


Meats. 


Beef  hash 

Hamburger 
steak,  gravy. 

Vienna  sausage, 
gravy. 

Fried  eggs.....\.. 

Soft-boiled  eggs. 

Fried  i)ork  sau- 
sage. 
Braised  beef 


Drinks. 


Coffee. 
..do... 
..do... 
..do... 
..do... 
..do... 
..do... 


Bread,  butter, 
etc. 


Bread  and  but* 

ter. 
Bread. 

Do. 

Hot     biscuits, 

bread. 
Hot     biscuits, 

butter,  sirup. 
Bread. 

Bread,  jelly. 


Soups. 


Rice  and 
tomato. 


Spaghetti.. 


Com  chow- 
der crou- 
tons. 

Vegetable . . 


Vegetables, 
salads,  etc. 


Mashed  pota- 
toes, cheesed 
onions,  boiled 
lima  beans. 

Boiled  sauer- 
kraut, boiled 
potatoes. 

French  fried  po- 
tatoes, sliced 
onions,pickles. 

Mashed  pota- 
toes. 


Meats,  etc. 


Desserts. 


Roast  pork.     Cottage  pud- 
apple  sauce.       ding. 


Boiled 
corned 


Baked  beans 
bacon. 


Fried    fish, 
tomato 


Rice  p  u  d  - 
ding  and 
cream 
sauce. 

Plum  pud- 
ding  and 
sauce. 
Peach  pie. 


Breads. 


Corn 
bread. 


Bread. . 
...do... 


Drinks. 


Coffee. 

Do. 

Do. 
Do. 


46 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 


Bills  of  fare  for  one  week — Continued. 

WINTER — continued . 

DiNNEE— continued. 


Soups. 

Vegetables, 
salads,  etc. 

Meats,  etc. 
* 

Desserts. 

Breads. 

Drinks. 

5 

Barley 

Fried  onions, 
baked  brown 
potatoes. 

Fried    beef- 
steak, 
gravy. 

Pumpkin 
pie. 

Bread... 

Coffee. 

6 

Potato 

Creamed    pota- 

Roast beef. 

Apple  rolls, 
car  amel 

...do.... 

Da 

chowder. 

toes,      succo- 

gravy. 

tash. 

sauce. 

7    Noodle 

Baked  sweet  po- 

Beef    &    la 

Tapioca 

Bread, 

Do. 

tatoes,creamed 

mode. 

pu  dding, 

butter. 

peas. 

sauce. 

Vegetables  and  salads. 


Boiled  rice 

Potato  cakes,  pickles. . . . 
Lyonnaise  potatoes 

Hash  brown  potatoes.. 

Fried  potatoes 

Stewed  tomatoes,   Ger 

man  fried  potatoes. 
Stewed  chili  beans 


Curry  of  beef 

Beef  rolls,  grayy. 
Macaroni  and 

cheese.     ' 
Fried    lives    and 

onions,  gravy. 
Beef  potpie.-T 


Beef  hash 

Salmon  cakes . 


Meats,  etc.       "    Hot  rolls,  sauces,  etc. 


Bread,  butter,  stewed 
pnmes. 

Apple  kutchen,  bread . 

Bread,  coffee  cake, 
butter. 

Bread,  tea  buns,  but- 
ter. 

Parkerhouse  rolls, 
bread  pudding, 
lemon  sauce. 

Spioed  cake 


Assorted  rolls,  butter, 
blackberry  pie. 


Drinks. 


Hot  tea. 

Cocoa. 
Coffee. 

Cocoa. 

Hot  tea. 

Da 
Cocoa. 


MANUAL  FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  47 


COMPONENTS   OF  THE   RATION. 


199.  Beef. — ^This  component  is  dealt  with  in  Chapter  III.  It  is 
the  most  important  as  well  as  the  most  expensive  article  of  the 
ration,  its  value  being  about  equal  to  all  the  other  components  com- 
bined. It  is  the  foundation  of  the  ration  and  careless  handling  will 
soon  put  an  organization  in  debt,  while  if  it  is  handled  carefully 
substantial  savings  may  be  made  with  which  to  purchase  pork, 
chicken,  and  other  meats  not  included  in  the  ration.  The  organi- 
zation commander  should  pay  particular  attention  to  the  beef  and 
flour  components,  which  taken  together  amount  to  more  than  one- 
half  the  value  of  the  ration. 

200.  Soup. — A  good  stock  soup  should  be  prepared  daily  for  dinner 
and  served  in  a  course  by  itself,  before  the  more  substantial  portion 
of  the  meal.  Serve  plenty  of  croutons  or  crackers  with  it,  seeing 
that  it  is  hot  when  served  and  that  the  grease  is  skimmed  off.  Soup 
stock  should  be  made  fresh  every  day  or  two.  Cut  the  fresh  meat 
into  small  pieces,  break  or  saw  the  bones  and  place  them  together 
in  cold  water  for  several  houre,  then  put  on  range  and  allow  to 
slimmer  for  about  six  hours.  After  about  two  hours  of  simmering  the 
juices  will  be  extracted  from  the  meat.  The  meat  should  then  be 
removed  from  the  boiler  before  the  fibers  have  become  hard  and  indi- 
gestible, and  placed  in  a  cool  place  for  use  in  hash,  meat  balls,  etc. 
The  grease  rises  to  the  top  and  forms  a  crust  which  may  easily  be  re- 
moved and  placed  in  the  drip  pan .  The  stock  when  prepared  should 
be  poured  into  another  receptacle  and  cooled.  The  stock  boiler 
should  then  be  cleaned  out  and  a  new  start  made.  Beef  stock  is  not 
only  used  in  making  soup,  but  in  hash,  stews,  gravies,  pot  pies,  etc. 

ITie.average  cook  doee  not  seem  to  realize  that  he  has  more  oppor- 
tunity to  show  his  skill  in  preparing  a  good  appetizing  soup  than  in 
most  other  dishes.  Seasoning  such  as  can  be  obtained  from  a  judi- 
cious use  of  different  kinds  of  pepper,  celery,  bacon,  or  parsley  and  a 
substantial  filling  of  different  vegetables  will  produce  a  dish  which 
the  men  will  enjoy  as  much  as  any  part  of  the  meal. 

201.  Bread  and  flour. — This  is  the  cheapest  component  of  the 
ration,  considering  the  nutritive  value,  and  consequently  the  greater 
the  quantity  used,  the  less  expensive  will  be  the  mess.  At  least  10 
per  cent  should  be  saved  on  this  component  after  buying  the  flour 
and  bread  used  in  the  kitchen.    This  saving  should  be  used  for  the 


48  MANUAL   FOB  AEMY   COOKS. 

purchase  of  breakfast  foods  for  which  no  allowance  is  given.  Bread 
should  not  be  cut  until  just  before  it  is  to  be  used  and  then  in  thin 
slices,  which  should  be  piled  close  together  in  order  to  prevent  it 
from  drying  out.  It  should  be  purchased  in  small  quantities  as 
required  from  day  to  day.  Bread  left  over  should  be  piled  in  the 
form  of  the  loaf  before  it  was  cut,  covered  with  a  cloth,  put  in  the 
bread  box  and  served  first  at  the  next  meal.  All  crumbs  and  pieces 
of  dried  bread  not  desirable  for  the  table  should  be  saved  and  placed 
in  a  flour  sack  and  allowed  to  dry  out.  It  may  then  be  toasted  and 
ground  for  use  in  place  of  cracker  crumbs  or  in  preparing  croquettes, 
meat  balls,  etc.  Milk  toast  and  bread  puddings  should  be  served 
often  enough  to  use  up  the  remainder  of  the  dried  bread. 

The  flour  should  be  used  in  the  preparation  of  biscuits,  pancakes, 
hot  rolls,  and  desserts. 

Bread  and  rolls  that  have  dried  out  may  be  greatly  freshened  by 
-moistening  and  placing  in  a  slow  o^'en  for  half  an  hour.  Place  a 
moistened  flour  sack  or  dish  towel  in  the  bottom  of  a  bake  pan  so 
that  the  ends  may  be  folded  over  the  bread  or  rolls,  or  place  a  pan 
•of  boiling  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  oven  and  the  pan  of  b  ^ead  or 
rolls  on  the  top  shelf  without  a  cloth,  leaving  the  oven  door  on  the 
isecond  notch.  The  bread  should  be  allowed  to  remain  in  a  20-count 
oven  for  about  20  minutes. 

Hard  bread  which  is  ordered  sold  to  the  troops  to  prevent  its  accu- 
mulating may  be  toasted  and  used  in  soups,  chowder,  bread  pud- 
dings, etc. 

Com  meal  should  be  served  occasionally  as  a  mush,  fried  or  in  com 
bread. 

202.  Baking  powder. — The  allowance  is  sufficient  for  one  mess  of 
pancakes,  biscuits,  etc,  each  day.  Usually  about  one-half  as  much 
of  a  more  expensive  baking  poVer  is  required.  In  using  baking 
powder  remember  that  it,  with  the  other  ingredients,  should  be 
mixed  with  cold  water  or  milk  and  used  at  once.  This  is  because 
the  action  of  water  on  the  ingredients  in  the  powder  causes  the  car- 
bonic gas,  which  makes  the  dough  light  and  spongy,  to  form  and 
escape.  If  the  mixture  is  not  used  at  once  it  should  be  kept  cool, 
otherwise  this  gas  will  escape  and  the  results  will  be  unsatisfactory. 
The  best  rule  is  to  use  at  once  after  mixing. 

,  Recipe  for  baking  powder. — A  very  good  baking  powder  can  be  made 
as  follows:  Take  16  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  8  ounces  baking  soda. 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  49 

and  4  ounces  of  com  starch  and  mix  thoroughly  by  putting  through 
a  sieve  at  least  nine  times. 

203.  The  bean  component  is  one  of  the  most  important.  Beans 
and  peas  contain  much  muscle-building  material  and  with  the  right 
proportion  of  fat  added  in  the  form  of  bacon  (about  20  per  cent),  are 
equal  to  meat  in  food  value,  and  are  a  suitable  substitute  for  fresh 
beef.  The  variety  of  beans  served  should  be  as  great  as  possible. 
The  best  results  are  obtained  by  soaking  the  beans  three  hours,  pour- 

■  ing  off  the  water,  scalding  them  in  a  second  water  which  is  poured 
off,  boiling  them  an  hour  in  a  third  water,  then  allowing  them  to 
simmer  until  done.  This  gives  the  beans  a  more  agreeable  flavor 
than  if  the  water  is  not  changed. 

For  an  organization  of  100  men  the  maximum  amount  of  dried 
vegetables  to  be  used  in  a  30-day  period  even  during  the  season  when 
fresh  vegetables  are  not  plentiful  is  as  follows: 

Issue  beans,  200  pounds.  This  is  sufficient  for  five  messes  of  baked 
beans,  three  messes  of  stewed  beans,  and  three  soups. 

Dried  peas,  60  pounds.     This  will  make  three  messes  of  stewed  peas. 

Lima  beans,  60  pounds.  This  is  sufficient  for  three  messes  of  stewed 
beans. 

Kidney  beans,  45  pounds.  This  is  sufficient  for  three  messes  of 
stewed  beans. 

Chili  beans,  50  pounds.  This  will  furnish  sufficient  beans  for  two 
meals  of  chili  con  came  and  two  of  stewed  beans.  When  served  as  a 
vegetable,  add  five  pounds  of  bacon. 

Rice,  about  70  pounds.  This  should  supply  three  meals  of  boiled 
rice,  three  6l  curry  and  rice,  and  about  two  puddings  and  leave 
sufficient  for  soups. 

Dried  sweet  com,  40  pounds.  This  is  sufficient  for  three  messes 
of  stewed  corn  and  three  of  soup.  It  takes  up  very  readily  about 
twice  its  weight  of  water  and  can  be  prepared  m  about  50  minutes. 

Hominy,  30  pounds.  This  is  sufficient  for  three  messes.  Should 
be  served  as  a  vegetable,  boiled,  with  diced  bacon  added.  It  may 
be  boiled  and,  when  cold,  sliced,  fried,  and  served  with  sirup. 
The  canned  lye  hominy  is  much  enjoyed  by  the  men  when  fried 
brown  in  ham  or  bacon  fat  and  served  at  breakfast. 

204.  Vegetables  consist  of  potatoes,  onions,  and  canned  tomatoes. 
The  allowance  of  vegetables  is  ample  during  the  winter  months. 


do  MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 

while  during  the  season  of  fresh  vegetables  a  considerable  saving 
should  be  made.  This  saving  may  be  used  for  the  purchase  of  fresh 
garden  truck,  or  when  a  company  garden  is  provided  should  be 
added  to  the  general  mess  fund.  During  the  winter  and  early 
spring  the  mess  will  derive  great  benefit  from  the  dried  v^etables 
mentioned  in  the  preceding  paragraph. 

Onions  and  tomatoes  are  most  valuable  as  seasoning  components. 
They  may  be  served  as  a  vegetable  about  once  in  five  days.  To- 
matoes are  chiefly  used  in  soups  and  stews  and  onions  in'  Hamburg 
steaks,  salads,  etc. 

Potatoes  should  be  stored  in  a  cool  dry  place.  Warmth  and 
moisture  hasten  decay  and  promote  the  growth  of  sprouts.  Sprouts 
should  be  removed  as  soon  as  they  appear,  as  this  growth  exhausts 
the  nutritive  value  of  the  potato.  Aiter  peeling  and  until  used, 
the  i)otato  should  be  kept  covered  with  cold  water,  exposure  to 
the  air  causing  them  to  become  dark  and  tough.  Fermentation  is^ 
likely  to  start  if  the  potatoes  are  left  in  warm  water.  Keep  them 
cool. 

All  potatoes  left  over  should  be  used  up  in  the  form  of  fried  pota- 
toes, in  meat  balls,  hash,  soups,  and  salads. 

All  left-over  vegetables  should  be  cooled  and  placed  in  the  ice 
box  in  warm  weather.  This  applied  to;  potatoes,  oeans,  and  salads 
in  particular.  Ferments  thrive  in  temperatures  above  70°  F. 
The  careless  cook,  may,  through  neglect,  cause  stomach  trouble  in 
warm  weather. 

Cabbage  is  invaluable  in  the  season  when  fresh  vegetables  can  not 
be  procured.  It  contains  a  certain  per  cent  of  sulphur  and  while 
cooking  it  should  be  submerged  in  water,  which  absorbs  the  sulphur. 

ParsnivSt  tumipSy  beets,  and  carrots  are  all  valuable  for  .a  change ' 
during  tne  winter  months.  If  purchasing  with  the  intention  ofi 
storing  for  winter  use  they  should  be  well  matured;  otherwise  they' 
will  not  keep. 

205.  Dried  fruits. — Excellent  recipes  are  given  in  this  manual  for' 
handling  dried  fruits,  and  the  entire  allowance  should  be  consumed  J 
in  the  mess  unless  fresh  fruit  is  abundant  and  cheap  enough  to  be 
purchased  from  the  savings.  The  acids  in  fruit  are  desirable  in  a 
well  regulated  diet.  The  quantity  of  fruit  allowed  is  based  upon 
ordinary  requirements. 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  51 

The  dried  fruits  issued  are  easily  prepared  for  the  table.  The 
men  tire  of  them  when  they  are  prepared  as  stews  too  often.  They 
should  be  prepared  as  butter  and  used  as  fillings  for  pies,  rolls, 
cobblers,  plum  duffs,  etc. 

The  following  recipe,  by  Lieut.  Col.  Willdns,  Quartermaster 
Corps,  has  furnished  excellent  results: 

1.  Thoroughly  wash  the  evaporated  fruit  in  about  three  waters. 

2.  Cover  with  plenty  of  water  and  soak  over  night. 

3.  Stew  slowly  until  tender. 

4.  Rub  through  a  colander  and  add  to  each  pound  of  dried  fruit 
used  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon,  and  a  little  vinegar. 

206.  Coffee. — The  use  of  tea  and  coffee  to  the  exclusion  of  water  is 
a  great  mistake.  The  quantity  of  the  coffee  component  consumed 
will  be  greatly  reduced  if  plenty  of  cold  water  is  placed  on  the 
cable  where  the  men  can  help  themselves.  If  good  coffee  is  made 
uhe  allowance  is  hardly  sufficient.  The  use  of  tea,  however,  de- 
creases the  consumption. 

Allow  coffee  to  boil  not  over  five  minutes,  then  reduce  to  a  simmer- 
ing temperature.  Do  not  allow  it  to  boil  violently  enough  to  permit 
the  air  to  carry  of  the  aroma  which  gives  the  coffee  its  agreeable 
llavor.  If  boiled  for  more  than  five  minutes  the  tannic  acid  is  ex- 
tracted and  forms  injurious  compounds  which  irritate  the  membranes 
i)f  the  stomach.  The  grounds  should  not  be  allowed  to  accumulate 
:or  more  than  three  meal&^-better  two — before  the  pot  is  scoured  and 
cleaned. 

!  ^  Tea  is  a  very  good  substitute  for  coffee  and  shoidd  be  used  for 
jiinner  and  supper,  iced  in  summer.  It  has  about  the  same  physio- 
l(»ical  effect  as  coffee,  but  is  lighter  and  less  bulky. 
j  In  preparing  tea  it  is  well  to  clean  it  by  pouring  over  it  boiling 
ivater,  then  put  the  leaves  in  boiling  water  and  allow  to  draw  for 
jibout  five  minutes  just  before  serving.  Do  not  allow  to  stand  longer 
ijn  the  hot  water.  About  three-fourths  of  an  ounce  per  gallon  of 
I  i^ater  is  suflicient  for  strong  tea,  one-half  ounce  for  medium  strong. 
)  i?ea  should  not  be  allowed  to  stand  in  tin  vessels,  even  for  a  short 
I  lime,  on  account  of  the  action  of  tannic  acid  on  the  metal. 
1  i  207.  Sugar  is  a  cheap  article  of  diet,  considering  its  high  nutritive 
-alue.  Next  to  fat  and  oil  it  furnishes  the  most  complete  food  for 
ueat  and  energy.    It  is  a  quick-acting  food  and  relieves  exhaustion 


52  MANUAL   FOR  ABMY   COOKS. 

very  rapidly.  It  should  be  placed  on  the  table  and  the  men  should 
be  allowed  to  help  themselves.  When  this  method  is  used  the  con- 
sumption will  increase  for  a  short  time,  but  soon  adjusts  itself  when 
properly  sui)ervi8ed.  The  mess  sergeant  should  take  care  to  see  that 
none  is  left  in  the  bottom  of  the  cups  after  the  coffee  is  drunk. 

Granulated  sugar  makes  an  excellent  sirup  for  table  use;  it  is 
cheaper  than  other  sirup  and  the  men  prefer  it  to  cheap  grades. 

208.  Milk. — The  allowance  is  based  upon  the  requirements  for 
coffee  only.  If  used  directly  in  the  coffee  there  is  sufficient  for  use 
twice  daily. 

209.  Seasonings. — Flavoring  extracts. — The  allowance  is  about 
sufficient,  any  excess  used  or  savings  made  will  affect  the  cash  credit 
very  little.  Sugar,  salt,  bacon,  ham,  onions,  parsnips,  carrots,  pep- 
per, garlic,  mustard,  her))s,  spices,  lemons,  and  many  other  articles 
are  used  for  flavoring  food. 

210.  Butter  and  oleomargarine. — ^The  allowance,  one-half  ounce 
per  man  per  day,  is  sufficient  for  hot  cakes,  rolls,  or  biscuits.  It 
should  be  served  individually. 

211.  Lard  and  lard  substitute. — The  cash  credit  of  this  component 
is  sufficient.  The  suet  from  beef  and  all  surplus  fat  received  should 
be  carefully  rendered.  This  with  the  grease  skimmed  from  stock, 
soups,  and  gravies  will  furnish  most  of  the  shortening,  drippings,  etc., 
required  in  the  kitchen.  A  pan  or  kettle  in  which  the  suet  is  ren- 
dered should  be  kept  on  the  stove  and  all  fat  should  be  placed  in  it. 
The  grease  which  gathers  on  the  stock  or  on  gravies,  etc.,  ahould  be 
skimmed  off  and  placed  in  this  pan.  Each  evening  the  grease  which 
has  accumulated  in  the  suet  pan  is  strained  off  into  a  jar  or  other  re- 
ceptacle and  placed  in  a  cool  place.  This  accumulation  which  is 
called  drippings  can  be  used  for  frying,  either  deep  or  shallow,  and 
can  be  used  in  rolls  or  pastry  when  carefully  strained.  Lard,  how- 
ever, is  better  for  the  latter. 

212.  Desserts. — The  ration  contains  all  the  material  necessary  for 
supplying  a  dessert  each  day.  The  recipes  given  herein  provide  a 
sufficient  variety.  .The  dessert  is  usually  one  of  the  cheapest  compo- 
nents of  the  meal  and  should  be  given  at  dinner  and  frequently  at 
3upper.  The  men  enjoy  it,  especially  on  bean  day,  when  a  good 
plum  duff  is  much  relished  by  those  who  do  not  care'  for  beans. 

A  good  sauce  should  be  j)rovided  for  puddings.  It  costs  little  and 
l"?  well  Uked.    One  gallon  is  sufficient  for  about  25  men. 


Chapter  III. 

MEAT. 

213.  Meat  is  the  general  term  applied  to  the  flesh  of  ammals 
'for  food.  It  includes  the  muscular  flesh,  sinews,  fat,  heart,  liver, 
stomach,  brains,  and  tongue.    Meat  is  divided  into  three  classes: 

Meat,  including  beef,  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  and  pork 
"    Poultry,  including  chickens,  turkeys,  geese,  ducks,  and  all  other 
domestic  fowls. 

Gavfie,  including  partridges,  grouse,  pigeons,  quail,  and  other  birds; 
venison,  and  all  wild  meat  that  is  hunted  in  forest  or  field. 

214.  Meat  consists  of  several  substancea— ^6rin,  albumen,  gelatine, 
fat,  and  the  juice  ofjlesh. 

215.  Fibrin  exists  in  the  blood  and  flesh.  In  the  former  it  is 
soluble,  owing  to  the  alkaline  nature  of  the  blood.  It  is  deposited 
by  the  blood  made  intp  flesh,  and  becomes  insoluble  flesh  fibrin  and 
forms  a  basis  of  fiber  of  museular  tissue.  It  is  separated  into  bundles 
by  membranes,  and  into  larger  or  separate  masses  by  cellular  tissue, 
in  which  fat  is  deposited.  Its  true  color  is  white;  but  the  blood  in 
the  veins,  which  penetrates  every  part  of  the  fiber,  gives  it  a  reddish 
tinge.  This  may  be  seen  by  washing  a  piece  of  meat  in  cold  water. 
The  red  coloring  matter  is  soon  drawn  out  into  the  water  and  the 
remainder  is  a  mass  of  white  fiber.  Fibrin  is  hardened  and  con- 
|,tracted  by  intense  heat,  but  softened  by  moderate  and  long  con- 
tinued heat.    Meat  that  has, tough  fiber  should  simmer,  not  boil. 

216.  Albumen  exists  in  the  flesh  and  the  blood.  It  is  the  soluble 
portion  of  the  flesh.  It  dissolves  in  cold  water,  but  hardenw  in  hot 
water. 

217.  Gelatine  is  a  peculiar  substance  found  in  the  tendons  and 
^stly  parts  of  the  flesn,  in  the  shin  and  the  sinewy  parts  about  the 
joints,  and  in  the  nutritive  parts  of  the  bones.  It  may  be  dissolved 
by  soaking  in  cold  water,  and  then  kept  at  a  simmering  tempera- 
ture for  several  hours.    The  solution  hardens  when  cold.     Gelatine 

53 


64  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

hardens  in  a  dry  heat,  and  such  parts  of  meat  as  contain  it  in 
abundance  should  be  stewed,  rather  than  roasted  or  broiled,  or  used 
in  the  form  of  a  pot  roast,  soft  roast,  or  beef  k  la  mode. 

218.  The  fat  of  meat  is  almost  exclusively  found  in  the  adipose 
tissue  of  almost  all  flesh  which  is  used  as  food.  It  is  liquifiea  by 
heat  and  resolved  into  various  acid  and  acrid  bodies.  It  is  a  warmtn 
giver  and  is  therefore  most  appropriately  used  in  cold  seasons  and 
climates. 

219.  The  juice  of  flesh  consists  of  water,  a  small  portion  of  albumen 
and  a  mixture  of  other  compounds.  It  is  not  the  blood  for  it  still 
exists  after  the  blood  has  been  withdrawn.  It  may  be  obtained  by 
chopping  lean  meat  into  small  pieces,  putting  it  in  a  closely  covered 
iar  without  water  and  heating  it  gradually.  If  heated  above  160° 
F.,  the  albuminous  matters  in  it  harden,  turning  brown.  The  solid 
residue,  consisting  of  fibers,  tissue,  etc.,  is  white,  tasteless  and  in- 
odorous. This  separated  juice  is  stronglv  acid,  while  the  blood  ie 
always  alkaline.  It  contains  many  substances  which  are  very 
valuable  as  food,  and  the  savory  principle,  which  gives  flavor  to  the 
meat  and  causes  it  to  differ  in  different  animals.  Meat  should  always 
be  cooked  in  such  a  manner  as  to  retain  the  largest  proportion  of  this 
juice.  The  juice  is  drawn  out  into  the  brine  in  salting,  thus  render- 
ing salt  meat  less  nutritous.  The  juice,  when  the  water  has  been 
separated  from  it  by  evaporation,  is  termed  "Extract  of  beef." 

220.  The  flesh  of  all  young  animals  is  more  tender,  but  not  as 
nutritious  as  that  of  maturer  animals.  Nearly  all  parts  of  the  animal 
may  be  used  as  food. 

Meat  is  in  season  all  the  year,  but  certain  kinds  are  better  during 
certain  seasons.     Pork  is  best  in  autumn  and  winter;  veal  in  the 
spring  and  summer;  venison  in  winter;  fowls  in  autunm  and  winter;  i 
lamb  in  the  summer  and  fall;  mutton  and  beef,  at  any  time. 

221.  Preserving  fresh  meat. — Fresh  meat  is  more  nutritious  and 
palatable  than  salted  or  cured  meat.  It  is,  therefore,  desirable  to 
use  as  large  a  proportion  of  fresh  meat  as  possible.  In  a  company 
refrigerator  with  a  temperature  of  55°  F.  fresh  meat  can  be  Kept 
with  safety  for  three  or  four  days.  When  the  temperature  is 
reduced  to  40°  F.,  or  less,  with  good  ventilation  and  circulation^ 
of  air,  fresh  meat  can  be  kept  for  a  week  or  10  days.  It  is  very 
important  that  the  circulation  be  free  and  the  air  dry.    Moisture 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  55 

in  a  refrigerator  tends  to  develop  wet  mold  or  slime,  and  a  little 
decay  soon  contaminates  the  whole  piece.  Less  diflBculty  will  be 
experienced  in  preserving  fresh  meat  if  it  is  kept  in  a  room  where 
the  temperatiu-e  is  relatively  high  and  the  air  dry  than  where  the 
temperature  is  low  and  the  air  damp. 

In  the  North,  meat  is  kept  during  the  cold  season  by  freezing. 
A  carcass  is  cut  up  into  quarters,  or  even  smaller  pieces,  and  hung 
in  an  outbuilding  where  it  will  remain  frozen  solid.  When  a  por- 
tion is  wanted  it  may  be  cut  off  with  a  saw.  If  the  meat  is  tnen 
taken  into  a  cold  room  and  slowly  thawed  out  the  flavor  is  only 
slightly  injured.  No  more  should  be  taken  in  at  one  time  than  is 
wanted  fpr  immediate  use.  Repeated  freezing  and  thawing  are 
injurious  to  the  flavor  and  quality  of  the  meat,  hence  the  impor- 
t-ance  of  keeping  it  where  the  temperature  will  remain  sufficiently 
low  to  prevent  thawing. 

Insects  should  not  be  allowed  to  get  at  the  meat.  For  this  reason 
a  dark,  cool  cellar  is  a  good  place  for  keeping  it.  The  cellar  should 
be  well  ventilated,  clean,  and  free  fromi  odors,  or  the  meat  will 
become  tainted. 

222.  How  to  preserve  fresh  meat  when  refrigerator  facilities  are 
not  at  hand. — It  should  be  hung  in  a  cool,  dry  place  and  in  a  draft 
if  possible.  It  should  be  well  protected  from  mes  by  having  cheese- 
cloth or  other  gauzy  material  for  a  covering,  and  this  should  be 
;  himg  loosely  about  tne  meat  so  as  to  permit  a  free  circulation  of  air,, 
i  If  care  be  exercised  in  the  handling  of  meat  it  can  be  kept  for  sev- 
leral  days  without  the  least  sign  of  decay.  A  test  to  reveal  the 
commencement  of  decay  is  the  knife-blade  test.  Insert  a  clean 
knife  blade  in  the  meat  to  the  bone,  and  if  it  can  be  extracted 
without  resistance  of  the  tissue  it  is  an  indication  that  the  meat 
|has  begun  to  decay.  The  smell  of  the  blade  will  indicate  whether 
decomposition  has  commenced. 

The  cloth  used  for  the  protection  of  the  meat  is  principally  to 
keep  •flies  from  it,  and  hence  it  should  not  at  any  point  come  in 
direct  contact  with  the  meat.  The  meat  may  be  himg  in  the  mid- 
dle of  a  frame  made  of  barrel  hoops.  The  cloth  is  then  placed 
around  the  hoops,  thus  preventing  flies  from  reaching  the  meat 
iind  permitting  a  free  circulation  of  air.  It  may  frequently  become 
Qecessary  to  keep  meat  for  several  days  in  camp.    In  wooaed  coun- 


56  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 

try  a  good  place  is  generally  found  in  the  shade  of  a  tree  and  about 
3  or  4  feet  from  the  ground.  However,  it  is  still  better  to  hang 
the  meat  about  30  feet  high  in  the  branches  of  a  tree.  In  case 
no  trees  are  available  it  should  be  hung  in  a  shady  spot  provided 
by  erecting  a  fly  and  suspending  the  meat  from  the  ridgepole,  where 
it  will  have  plenty  of  draft. 

223.  Curing  meats. — Meat  must  be  properly  and  thoroughly  cooled 
to  insure  good  keeping  qualities  when  cured.  If  salted  before  the 
animal  heat  is  out,  the  shrinkage  of  the  muscles  causes  the  retention 
of  injurious  gases,  giAing  an  offensive  odor  to  the  meat.  Neither 
should  meat  be  frozen  when  salted,  as  the  action  of  the  frost  will 
prevent  the  proper  penetration  of  the  salt  and  an  uneven  curing 
will  result.  It  is  important,  also,  that  meat  be  cured  as  soon  as  cooled 
and  while  still  fresh.  Tainted  meat  may  be  cured  so  that  it  will 
keep,  but  nothing  in  the  line  of  preservatives  can  bring  back  the 
natural  flavor  when  it  is  once  lost.  The  safest  rule  to  follow  is  to 
salt  meat  as  soon  as  the  animal  heat  is  out  and  before  it  freezes  or 
starts  to  decay.  Ordinarily,  24  to  36  hours  after  slaughtering  will 
allow  time  for  cooling. 

224.  Vessel  for  curing. — A  clean  hard-wood  barrel  is  a  suitable 
vessel  in  which  to  cure  meat,  A  barrel  made  for  the  purpose  is  best, 
but  where  it  can  not  be  had  a  molasses  or  sirup  barrel  will  answer. 

A  kerosene  barrel  that  has  been  burned  out  and  used  as  a  water 
barrel  for  some  time  is  often  used  for  a  meat  barrel.  The  important 
part  is  to  have  it  clean,  free  from  odors,  and  tight  enough  to  prevent 
leakage.  A  large  stone  jar  is  the  best  vessel  that  can  be  used.  One 
holding  25  to  30  gallons  is  expensive  however,  and  must  be  carefully 
handled  to  prevent  breakage.  A  jar  is  more  easily  cleaned  than  a 
barrel  and  is  in  every  way  preferable  if  the  first  cost  can  be  afforded. 
A  barrel  or  jar  that  has  once  held  meat  may  be  used  again  and  again 
unless  the  meat  has  spoiled  in  it.  If  used  repeatedly  it  is  necessary 
to  scald  it  out  thoroughly  each  time  before  packing  with  fresh  meat. 

THE    BEEF   COMPONENT. 

225.  The  cash  value  of  the  beef  component  if  properly  handled 
is  sufficient  to  cover  the  cost  of  all  meats  used  in  thp  company  kitchen 
and  provide  a  saving  for  other  articles.     By  careful  selection  of  such 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  57 

low-priced  meats  as  liver,  beef  hearts,  and  sausages  together  with 
such  high-priced  meats  as  pork,  fish,  chicken,  etc.,  an  average  price 
will  result  which  will  enable  one  to  secure  a  satisfactory  variety, 
while  living  within  the  limits  of  the  ration.  Such  purchases  are 
economical  when  it  is  considered  that  these  low-priced  meats  are 
generally  without  bone  which  in  beef  constitutes  about  20  or  25 
per  cent  of  the  whole  weight. 

Remember  that  in  handling  meat  in  the  kitchen  all  bones  and 
trimmings  must  be  retained  until  the  juices  are  extracted  for  stock 
and  all  suet  and  fat  are  rendered  for  drippings. 

When  meat  is  received  in  quarters,  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance 
that  the  mess  sergeant  and  cooks  understand  how  to  cut  it  up  for 
kitchen  use  and  for  what  purpose  each  cut  is  best  adapted.  The 
instructions  given  in  the  following  pages  should  be  carefully  fol- 
lowed. All  tough  parts  of  fresh  meat  should  be  put  through  the 
grinder  and  used  as  Hamburg  steaks,  hash,  and  meat  balls. 

Remember  that  in  cooking  tough  meats  a  long  period  of  slow 
cooking  is  required. 

All  meat  should  be  sliced  in  the  kitchen  before  serving  in  order 
that  fats,  gristle,  and  other  portions  that  will  be  left,  if  taken  on 
the  men's  plates,  may  be  saved  and  either  rendered  out  or  used  in 
some  other  form. 

226.  Specifications  for  fresh  beef. — To  be  good  in  quality  and  con- 
dition, fit  for  immediate  use,  and  equal  numbers  of  fore  and  hind 
quarters  to  be  delivered,  including  ail  the  best  cuts;  no  carcass  to 
weigh  less  than  500  pounds  when  trimmed;  necks  to  be  cut  off  per- 
pendicular to  the  line  of  the  vertebrae,  leaving  but  three  cervical 
vertebrae  on  the  carcass;  the  shanks  of  fore  quarters  to  be  cut  off  at 
the  knee  joint  and  hind  quarters  at  the  hock  joint  (commercial  cut), 
and  to  compensate  for  the  shank  bone  thus  allowed  to  remain  2| 
pounds  will  be  deducted  from  the  weight  of  each  fore  quarter  and 
3^  pounds  from  each  hind  quarter;  difference  between  fore  and  liind 
quarters  not  to  exceed  25  pounds  per  carcass  (one  rib  to  be  left  on 
each  hind  quarter).  Neds,  kidney  fat,  beef  from  bulls  and  stags  and 
from  females  {except  from  spayed  heifers)  will  be  excluded  from  delivery. 
Such  quantities  of  fresh  meat  as  may  be  required  by  the  quarter- 
master from  time  to  time  shall  be  delivered  to  him  in  bulk  at  the 
I  quartermaster's  storehouse  or  other  designated  place  on  such  days 


68  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

and  at  such  hours  as  he  may  prescribe  under  the  direction  of  his 
commanding  officer. 

227 .  Bemarks  on  specifications. — In  order  that  the  difference  in 
weight  between  fore  and  hind  quarters  shall  not  exceed  the  limit 
(25  pounds  per  carcass)  the  cut  must  he  made  so  as  to  leave  one  rib  only 
on  the  hind  quarter,  and  this  is  the  ordinary  packing  house  cut. 

The  minimum  weight  is  placed  at  500  pounds  to  insure  getting  a 
proper  proportion  of  meat  to  bone. 

The  specified  neck  cutis  unusual  in  commercial  transactions,  and 
the  delivery  will  generally  be  made  with  five  or  six  neck  vertebrae 
left  on  the  carcass  unless  apecial  attention  is  paid  to  this  trimming. 
The  neck  meat  is  worth  commercially  about  one-half  the  contract 
price  for  the  carcass  and  it  should  be  accepted  under  no  circum- 
stances. 

The  deduction  of  two  and  one-half  pounds  for  the  shank  of  the  fore- 
quarter  and  three  and  one-half  pounds  for  the  hock  (both  of  which  were 
formerly  cut  out  before  delivery)  is  very  apt  to  be  overlooked  by  the 
contractor  unless  especially  cautioned  by  the  responsible  person. 
Neglect  to  make  the  neck  and  shank  trimmings  and  deductions  net 
the  contractor  more  than  $3  a  carcass  even  when  the  price  is  as  low- 
as  11  cents  per  pound, 

By  ^'kidney'*  fat  is  meant  the  fat  immediately  surrounding  the 
kidney  and  does  not  refer  to  other  suet  in  the  hind  quarter. 

The  meat  from  bulls,  stags,  and  cows  is  excluded  for  the  reason  that 
it  is  inferior  to  that  from  the  steer  of  the  same  age  and  condition. 

A  careful  study  of  the  characteristics  that  definitely  determine  the 
differences  between  these  classes  of  carcasses  is  necessary  in  order  to 
protect  the  interests  of  the  Government  and  of  the  companies,  and 
they  are  clearly  shown  in  the  accompanying  cuts. 

228.  Sex  of  beef. — By  definition,  the  bull  is  the  uncastrated  male, 
and  the  stag  a  male  castrated  late  in  life.  In  practice,  a  bull  is  cas- 
trated when  he  has  served  his  purpose,  and  economy  requires  that 
he  should  be  placed  on  the  market.  Being  castrated  he  takes  on 
flesh  and  being  fattened  brings  a  better  price  at  the  stock  yards. 
As  a  bull  he  will  rarely  fatten  under  any  circumstances,  but  in  either 
case,  the  flesh  is  very  dark — conspicuously  so — and  the  muscles 
*'8tand  out,"  hard  and  compact,  especially  on  the  shanks.  In  the 
cod  there  is  almost  an  entire  absence  of  scrotal  fat.    The  carcass  of 


ilANUAL   FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  59 

the  bull  or  stag  shows  massive  shoulders,  a  thick,  bulging  neck, 
broad  chest,  a  very  round  rump,  and  coarse-grained  flesh.  His  fore- 
quarters  are  relatively  larger  than  his  hind  quarters.  His  general 
make-up  is  so  different  from  that  of  the  steer  that  if  after  careful 
-examination  of  the  carcass  a  doubt  exists  as  to  whether  it  is  a  steer 
or  a  stag  (or  bull)  the  chances  are  that  it  is  a  steer. 

Thenesh  of  bulls  and  stags  is  drier  than  that  of  steers  and  cows,  and 
is  used  to  aa vantage  in  bologna  and  sausages,  for  when  cured  it  will 
have  taken  up  and  retained  more  moisture  than  other  classes  of  beef. 
As  a  rule  contractors  will  not  now  attempt  to  run  in  such  meat  in 
quantity,  but  if  it  is  delivered  it  should  be  promptly  rejected.  It  is 
generally  tough  and  unsuited  to  company  use. 

A  steer  is  a  male  not  full  grown,  castrated  when  yoimg,  and  an  ox 
the  corresponding  full  grown  animal.  Generally  spealSiig,  we  call 
the  meat  from  the  carcass  of  either  "steer  meat,  "  and  for  Army  use 
the  only  beef  delivered  should  be  from  animals  from  2  to  6  years  of 
age,  excepting  only  the  meat  from  the  "spayed  heifers, "  which  ia 
occasionally  supplied. 

A  s'payea'heifer  is  a  female  from  which  the  ovaries  were  removed  early 
An  life.  Cows  are  somtetimes  spayed  after  having  had  one  or  more 
calves,  if  it  is  necessary  to  let  them  run  at  large  with  a  herd  while 
preparing  them  for  the  market,  but  if  the  operation  has  been  per- 
formed at  all  the  scar  should  generally  be  plainly  visible  in  the  left 
flank  (though  the  ovaries  are  some  times  otherwise  removed). 

A  cow  is  a  female  that  has  had  a  calf.  A  maiden  heifer  la  an  adult 
female  that  has  not  been  allowed  to  breed. 

Cows  are  frequently  not  placed  on  the  market  imtil  much  benefit 
has  been  derived  from  them  either  for  dairy  or  breeding  purposes, 
and  conseouently,  they  are  generally  older  than  steers  when  slaugh- 
tered. If  killed  within  a  certain  period  before  or  after  calving- they 
are  considered  unfit  for  food . 

Generally  speaking,  a  steer  produces  considerably  more  flesh  to  bone 
than  the  cow,  and  the  carcass  of  a  steer  at  the  present  time  brings 
from  2  to  2^  cents  per  pound  more  than  that  of  a  cow  in  the  same 
condition.  This  explains  the  tendency  of  contractors  to  run  in  cow 
meat  whenever  it  will  be  accepted. 

The  accompanying  photographs  with  explanations  will  render  the 
determination  of  sex  in  dressed  beef  a  simple  matter. 


60  MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

229.  Age  and  quality. — The  age  of  dressed  beef  can  be  estimated 
by  the  character  of  the  cartilage  tipping  the  spines  of  the  dorsal 
vertebrae;  by  that  between  the  vertebrae  throughout  the  spinal 
column,  and  by  that  in  the  brisket,  sufficiently  well  to  indicate  the 
toughness  or  tenderness  of  the  beef  so  as  to  regulate  its  acceptance  or 
rejection.  Wlien  the  layers  of  cartilage  between  the  vertebrae 
become  so  tough  and  hard  as  to  resist  the  penetration  of  the  point  of 
a  skewer  of  soft  pine  wood,  the  quarter  should  generally  be  rejected 
because  the  steer  was  too  old.  The  eye  will  note  as  accompanying 
this  condition,  a  very  limited  amount  of  cartilage  in  the  brisket 
(practically  none  in  the  cow);  the  bones  of  the  sacrum  will  have 
generally  grown  into  a  solid  mass,  with  few  or  no  lines  of  demarca- 
tion between  the  several  vertebrae;  the  cartilaginous  extensions  of 
the  spines  of  the  dorsal  vertebrae  will  be  more  bone  than  cartilage 
(in  the  cow  they  -will  be  solid  bone) ;  the  diaphragm  will  be  exceed- 
ingly tough  ;  the  bones  will  present  a  bleached  out  appearance  instead 
of  being  ruddy  or  full  of  blood  as  in  youth;  and  the  marrow  will  be 
hard  and  light  yellow  or  almost  white  instead  of  soft  and  red.  Gen- 
erally the  fat  will  be  hard  and  yellow  instead  of  soft  and  white  as  in 
youth,  although  in  some  breeds  of  cattle  the  fat  is  naturally  yellow 
at  all  ages.  The  cartilage  of  the  joints  will  be  pale  white  instead  of 
\ having  a  bluish  tinge  as  in  youth,  and  more  or  less  ''water'*  may  be 
present. 

The  flesh,  of  veal  is  of  a  j>ale  red  color.  That  of  a  steer  should  be  a 
bright  re(i ;  a  deeper  red  indicates  greater  age  and  toughness.  The 
flesh  of  a  cow  is  generally  darker  than  that  of  a  steer  in  the  same 
condition.  The  flesh  of  bulls  and  stags  is  very  dark,  so  dark  that  it 
should  at  once  be  detected.  Color  in  meat  should  be  judged  from 
portions  that  have  been  cut  a  few  minutes  previously.  Fi'eshly  cut 
portions  and  those  that  have  been  exposed  to  the  air  for  a  consider- 
able period  present  an  unnaturally  dark  appearance.  (For  method 
of  telling  age  of  cattle  on  the  hoof  see  par.  2305,  Manual  for  the 
Quartermaster  Corps,  1916.) 

In  passing  upon  meat  it  should  be  remembered  that  the  contract 
specifications  are  so  definitely  stringent,  so  far  as  the  contractor  is 
concerned,  and  so  liberal  with  respect  to  the  troops,  that  almost  any 
quality  of  beef  can  be  procured  that  is  insisted  upon  by  the  quarter- 
master and  post  commander.    It  is  contemplated  by  the  Quarter- 


MANUAL   FOE   ARMY    COOKS. 


61 


master  Corps  that  the  beef  shall  b9  "good  in  quality  and  condition," 
etc.,  and  contractors  regulate  their  bids  by  the  interpretation  they 
have  noted  has  been  made  as  to  the  same  by  the  post  authorities. 
A  strict  interpretation  of  the  requirements  results  in  high  bids  and 
increased  cost  of  the  ration. 

It  is  considered,  however,  that  regardless  of  what  may  have  been 
the  contractor's  estimate  of  the  situation  at  any  particular  post,  he 
should  be  required  to  comply  strictly  with  specifications  as  to  sex, 
weight  of  carcass,  trimming  of  necks  and  allowance  of  weights  for  shanks, 
etc.,^  but  that  a  reasonable  interpretation  should  be  put  upon  the 
clause  referring  to  "quality  and  condition."  Beef  for  Army  use 
should  be  only  moderately  fat,  though  the  fat  should  be  well  distrib- 
uted and  the  cuts  of  lean  meat  present  a  marbled  appearance.  Beef 
in  good  condition  and  Otherwise  complying  with  the  contract  should 
be  accepted  if  between  2  and  6  years  of  age.  It  is  perfectly  evident 
that  we  can  not  expect  to  be  supplied  with  corn-fed  beef  from  native 
stock,  2  years  of  age  and  younger,  as  part  of  the  regular  ration. 

230.  Selection  of  parts  for  different  uses  in  the  kitchen. — The  parts 
of  the  carcass  should  be  selected  in  the  following  order,  when  quality 
alone  is  considered : 


Order. 

Roasts. 

Steaks. 

Boiled 
beef.i 

Corned 
beef.i 

1 

Prime  rib..     .'..!..  .. 

Loin 

Round 

Prime  rib . . . 

Rump 

Clod 

Chuck 

Shoulder.... 

Shoulder. . 
Brisket 

Brisket 

2 

Loin 

PWltO 

3 

Round 

Plate               '    'Plnnlr 

4 

Flank 

Shank 

Neck 

Rump. 
Shoulder 

5 

Chuck  

6 

Shoulder  (or  clod) 

7 

Brisket  (only  as  a  last  resort) 

1  While  the  higher  grades  of  meat  may  be  boiled  or  corned,  if  desired  or  if  necessary 
to  save  them  from  spoiling,  the  parts  above  mentioned  are  those  selected  during  the 
regular  routine  of  kitchen  work  as  being  the  most  economical. 


For  Hamburg  steak  and  potpies,  meat  from  all  parts  of  the  carcass 
may  be  used,  though  the  quality  will,  of  course,  depend  much  upon 
the  tenderness  or  toughness  of  the  parts  used. 


«2 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 


For  stews,  any  part  of  the  carcass  may  be  used ;  but  for  reasons  of 
economy  it  is  best  to  use  the  parts  noted  for  boiled  beef. 

For  soups,  all  bones  broken  or  sawed,  and  the  particles  of  meat 
clinging  tnereto,  may  be  used.  Left-over  meats  may  be  worked  in 
as  noted  in  the  recipes. 


231. 


HIND   QUARTER  OP  BEEF 


Heavy  black  lines  show  the  first  cuts  made  for  anv  purpose  wJiatever  upon  receipt 
of  quarter.  Cut  from  A  to  B  just  in  front  of  joint,  fi  to  F  just  under  aitch  bone,  and 
G  to  H,  using  knife  only.  Numbers  refer  to  general  value  of  each  cut  for  company 
use,  considering  both  quarters  together. 


f 


MANUAL    FOE   ARMY    COOKS. 


23i 


FOREQUARTER    OP   BEEF. 


Heavy  lines  show  the  first  cuts  made  for  any  purpose  whatever  upon  receipt  of 
quarter.  Cut  in  order.  A,  B,  C,  D,  E,  etc.  Cut  from  A  to  B  to  remove  shoulder,  using 
tne  knife  only.  Numoers  refer  to  general  value  of  each  for  company  use,  considering 
both  quarters  together. 


233. 


HINDQUARTERS. 

Each  4  years  old. 

cow.  STEER. 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  65 

Cow  and  steer  carcasses  of  about  the  same  age,  condition,  and 
general  appearance  are  represented. 

The  cow  carcass. — Note,  in  comparison  with  the  steer,  the  slender 
hock  and  the  dished-in  appearance  between  the  hock  and  rump; 
that  the  exterior  fat  of  the  carcass  meets  the  end  of  the  aitch  bone 
at  a';  that  the  inner  end  of  the  aitch  bone  is  slightly  refused,  pro- 
viding a  broader  passage  for  gii-ing  birth  to  a  calf. 

The  rump  bones  at  y  are  separated  in  youth,  but  become  solid  at 
about  3  years  of  age,  leaving  no  lines  of  demarcation. 

The  forniation  of  a^  can  not  be  greatly  altered  for  the  purpose  of 
deception'  and  this  »vith  the  udder,  if  not  cut  away,  are  the  positive 
proofs  of  sex. 

The  backbone  at  c'  seems  to  be  relatively  weak  and  is  generally 
broken  during  cleavage  while  dressing  the  carcass.  The  loin  at  this 
point  generally  presents  a  dished-in  appearance. 

The  steer  carcass. — Xete,  in  comparison  with  the  cow,  the  large 
hock,  the  plump  appearance  between  the  hock  and  rump;  that  the 
exterior  fat  of  the  carcass  is  separated  from  the  aitch  bone  at  a  by 
about  2  inches  of  lean  meat,  to  which  a  portion  of  the  penis  is  gen- 
erally still  attached,  as  shown  in  the  photograph;  that  the  inner 
end  of  the  aitch  bone  juts  into  the  passaije,  narrowing  it. 

The  rump  bones  at  h  do  not  grow  together  as  early  as  in  the  cow, 
and  show  distinct  lines  of  demarcation  up  to  about  6  years. 

The  backbone  at  c  is  firm  and  the  loin  near  this  point  straight  or 
plump. 

The  formation  at  a  and  the  presence  of  the  cod  (scrotal  fat)  are 
positive  proofs  of  sex.  If  the  cod  has  been  cut  away,  it  is  sufficient 
cause  for  rejection,  as  this  is  generally  done  only  for  Jhe  purpose  of 
making  the  cow  and  steer  carcasses  appear  so  much,  alike  that  the 
cow  carcasses  can  be  run  in  on  the  contract. 


234. 


HIXncjUAUTER    OK    COW. 

5  years  old. 


Cow  carcass.— The  quarter  here  represented  may  be  considered  as  typical  of  the 
grade  of  cow  meat  generally  presented  for  acceptance.  Note  the  slender  hock,  the 
"dished-in  "  appearance  above,  the  long,  straight  aitch  bone  meeting  the  exterior 
fat  at  a.  the  broad  passage  at  b,  the  solid  rump  at  c,  the  broken  back  at  d,  and  how 
the  udder  has  been  cut  out  and  skewers  put  in  at  this  point. 
66 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 


67 


HINDQUARTER,  STEER. 

4  years  old. 


Steer  carcass. — Note  the  t\'pical  formation  at  a,  the  narrow  passacre  at  6,  the  lines 
f  demarcation  between  the  bones  of  nimp  at  c,  and  the  Uimps  of  fat  at  d  forming  tiie 
Jd  or  scrotal  fat.  Note  also  the  straight,  firm  loin  in  contrast  to  the  weak  loin  sho\\'n 
t  d  in  the  cow. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 


236. 


FOREQUARTERS. 


Each  about  3^  years  old. 

cow.  STEER. 


Ji^. , 

^^1^ 

^H^^^J^K"  '                         -  ■ 

Or 

^^^H  v^-     <A-    ■ 

/ 

||. 

wm 

'^m^^ 

^ 

^""^^C 

Sieer  carcass. — Note  that  the  spines  of  the  dorsal  vertebrae  are 
tipped  at  a  \vith  wliite  cartilage  called  "buttons."  In  very  young 
animals  this  cartilage  is  perfectly  white.  In  the  2-year  old  animal 
little  red  spots  appear.  At  3  they  are  more  numerous.  At  4  bony 
islands  form.  At  5  there  is  more  bone  than  cartilage.  At  6  there  is 
but  a  narrow  strip  of  white  cartilage  left  surrounding  the  bone  that 
has  formed,  but  the  line  of  demarcation  between  "spine"  and  "but- 
tons "  is  distinct.  By  9  years  of  age  the  button  is  solid  bone  and  at 
12  is  of  the  same  color  as  the  bone  of  the  spine.  If  6  or  older  the  beef 
should  be  rejected. 

Note  that  at  the  forward  end  of  the  breast  bone  at  b  solid  wliite 
•cartilage  is  found.     It  disappears  with  age,  as  do  the  "buttons." 


MANUAL   FOE  ABMY   COOKS.  69 

There  is  also  a  relatively  large  amount  of  cartilage  between  first  and 
second  bones  of  the  breast. 

The  ribs  are  distinctly  curved  lengthwise  and  also  in  cross  section. 
They  extend  perpendicularly  outward  from  the  back  bone  and  ^t 
about  the  fifth  vertebra  from  the  rear.     The  knee  is  coarse. 

Cow  carcass. — Note  the  absence  of  the  buttons  at  a^  referred  to 
above.  They  appear  in  the  heifer  as  in  the  steer,  but  generally  dis- 
appear entirely  between  2  and  3  years  of  age  leaving  no  lines  of 
demarcation.     If  none  are  present  the  quarter  should  be  rejected. 

In  comparison  with  the  steer  there  is  very  little  cartilage  at  6^. 

The  ribs  are  straighter  than  in  the  steer  and  quite  fiat.  They 
begin  to  bend  backward  at  about  the  fifth  vertebra  from  the  rear. 

The  knee  is  slender. 


70 


237. 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 
FOREQUARTERS  OF  COW. 


i^  -^'"^ 

■                   V^               ^iiSSite.^:     )<E             .4 

1'  ■ 

t^K 

:       - 

B.'  t'-^^sB^^m 

r'    "^^'^^^^g 

wm'^m^ 

^^  .-^i^-i 

'mM 

^^-f^' 

^W^Ikf^'^ 

ft  ^ 

To  illiistrate  especially  the  absence  of  cartilage  at  a,  the  bony  lonna^tion  at  &,  anc 
oblique  angle  of  the  ribs  to  back  bone  at  about  the  fifth  vertebra  from  the  rear.  Fou: 
years  old. 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 
FOREQUARTER    OP   STEER. 


71 


To  illustrate  especially  the  "buttons"  of  the  spines  of  the  back  at  a,  the  cartilage 
at  ft  just  bcginnint?  to  turn  to  bone,  the  perpendicularity  of  the  ribs  to  the  spinal 
column  at  about  the  fifth  vertebra  from  the  rear,  and  the  point  c  at  which  the  neck 
should  be  trimmed  off.    Four  years  old. 


72 


MANUAL    FOR    ARMY    COOKS. 


239. 


FOREQUARTERS. 
COW.  STEER. 


To  illustrate  especially  the  thin  neck  A  of  the  cotv  as  compared  with  the  thick  neck 
B  of  the  steer.  \ 


240. 


SIDE    OP  HEIFER. 


This  animal  was  about  9  months  old.  Note  the  characteristic  formation  at  c. 
he  distinctly  separated  bones  at  b,  the  "buttons"'  c,  amount  ol  cartilage  at  d,  and 
vhere  the  neck  is  cut  off  according  to  contract  at  c. 

73 


CARCASS   OF   PORK,    SHOWING   CUTS 


To  cut  up  porfc.— First  split  the  carcass  into  halves;  then  cut  oii  the  neck  (A-B)j| 
and  shanks  (C-D  and  E-F)  of  the  fore  and.  hind  quarters;  remove  the  hind  quar-j 
ter  by  the  cut  G-H.  and  then  the  shoulder,  using  the  knife  only.    Then  cut' 
order;  I-K,  L-M,  N-0,  and  P-Q. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  75 

12.  Pork. — Fresh  pork  is  not  supplied  by  the  Quartermaster 
58  and,  when  desired,  must  generally  be  purchased  from  sav- 
i  on  the  ration,  unless  hogs  are  raised  by  the  company.  The 
ing  up  of  pork  is  very  simple,  as  the  meat  is  tender  and  the 
es  are  relatively  soft.  Unlike  beef  and  mutton,  it  should  be 
as  soon  as  cooled  throughout.  If  the  carcass  is  thoroughly 
led,  it  is  well  to  have  two  knives  and  one  cleaver,  the  utensils 
in  use  being  kept  submerged  in  a  bucket  of  hot  water.  If  the 
ass  is  still  warm,  an  extra  knife  is  not  necessary.  Trim  off  most 
le  fat  and  use  the  loin  for  chops  and  the  shoulder  and  ham  for 
ts.  All  left-over  parts — head,  skin,  and  shanks — may  be  used, 
ther  with  an  equal  portion  of  beef,  in  the  preparation  of  head- 
jse  or  sausage.    (See  recipe.) 


76  MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

243.  CARCASS   OP  MUTTON,    SHOWING  CUTS. 


, 

E- 

B 

~-F 

u 

• 

4 

^■:  ^ 

,G 

^'   ml 

L 

L 

0-1^ 

1^ 

s 

1 

L 

it 

fl 

i 

J 

1 

i 

c 

m 

1 

To  CM<  up  mutton.— First  split  the  carcass  intoialves;  then  cut  ofiE  the  neck  (A-B) 
and  shanks  (C-D  and  E-F)  of  the  fore  and  hind  quarters,  as  indicated;  remove  the 
liind  quarter  by  the  cut  G-H  and  then  the  shoulder,  using  the  knife  only.    Then 
■  K, "    '         '  '  ■   " 


out  in  order  I- 
in  the  ice  box, 


L-M,  N-0,  and  P-Q  for  general  use  in  the  kitchen,  or  for  packing 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  77 

244.  Matton. — Mutton  is  occasionally  supplied  to  companies  in 
accordance  with  the  following  specifications: 

To  be  of  a  good,  fat,  marketable  quality,  from  wethers  over  1  and 
under  3  years  old;  the  carcasses  to  be  tnnwned  with  the  heads  cut 
;  off  at  the  first  vertebral  joint,  the  shanks  of  fore  quarters  at  the  knee 
'  joint,  and  of  hind  at  the  hock  joint;  the  average  weight  of  the  dressed 
carcass  of  mutton  to  be  about  50  pounds. 

The  leg  may  be  cut  into  steaks,  but  is  generally  roasted  or  boiled. 
The  loin  may  be  cut  into  chops,  using  one  rib  to  a  chop,  or  may  be 
roasted.  The  shoulder  may  be  used  as  a  roast  when  from  a  youcg 
animal,  or  as  a  boil  when  from  an  old  one.  The  brisket  and  flanks 
may  be  used  for  stews  and  the  neck  and  shank  for  soup  stock.  The 
meat  remaining  in  the  stock  boiler  may  be  used  up  in  fritters,  meat 
balls,  croquettes,  etc.,  though  the  juices  having  been  extracted,  the 
meat  will  be  hard  and  dry. 

245.  Fish,  on  account  of  its  abundance,  cheapness,  and  whole- 
Bomeness,  is  invaluable  as  an  article  of  food .  It  is  less  nutritious  and 
less  stimulating  than  me.at,  as  it  contains  less  solid  matter  and  more 
water.  As  it  contains  little  fat,  the  white  varieties  particularly,  it 
ie  easily  digested  and,  as  it  has  a  large  proportion  of  nitrogenous 
matter,  it  is  an  especially  good  food  for  those  upon  whom  there  is  a 
great  demand  for  nervous  energy.  Salmon  heads  the  list  of  fish  in 
nutritive  qualities  and  it  is  richer  than  meat.  Next  in  value  are  fat 
halibut,  shad,  whitefish,  mackerel,  bluefish,  lean  halibut,  bass, 
flounder,  trout,  haddock,  cusk. 

Red-blooded  fish,  like  salmon,  mackerel,  and  bluefish,  have  the  oil 
distributed  throughout  the  body.  They  are  nutritious  for  those  who 
can  digest  them,  but  are  too  rich  and  oily  for  invalids.  WTiite  fish, 
like  flounder,  halibut,  cod,  and  haddock,  have  the  oil  in  the  liver 
and  are  more  easily  digested.  Fish  should  be  perfectly  fresh  and 
thoroughly  cooked,  or  it  is  very  indigetHible  and  sometimes  poison- 
ous. Boiling  and  baking  are  the  best  methods  of  cooking  them, 
Small  pan  fish  and  fillets  of  large  white  dry  fish  are  good  if  fried, 
but  oily  fish  should  never  be  fried.  Salting  draws  out  the  nutritive 
part  of  the  fish  the  same  as  it  does  in  meat,  and  either  fish  or  meat, 
thus  prepared,  should  be  used  as  a  relish  and  not  depended  upon  for 
Qourishment.  Fat  fish  are  injured  less  than  white  fi^,  as  the  fat  is 
Qot  removed  by  salting. 


78  MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

All  varieties  of  fish  need  an  accompaniment  of  starchy  foods,  like 
bread  or  potatoes;  and  white  fish  need,  in  addition,  to  be  cooked  with 
butter  or  fat  to  make  them  desirable  as  food.  The  juices  of  fish, 
shellfish  particularly,  are  of  an  alkaline  nature  and  this  renders 
lemon  jiuce  or  \dnegar  a  desirable  condiment  as  a  neutralizing^ 
agency. 

The  flesh  of  good  fish  is  firm  and  hard  and  will  rise  at  once  when 
pressed  with  the  finger.  If  the  eyes  be  dull  and  sunken,  the  gills 
pale,  and  the  flesh  flabby  or  soft,  the  fish  is  not  fresh. 

Fish  should  be  cleaned  as  soon  as  possible  in  strongly  salted  water. 
They  should  be  wiped  with  a  cloth  wet  in  salt  water,  then  wrapped 
in  a  cloth  which  is  sprinkled  with  salt,  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 
Put  ice  around  if  necessary,  but  do  not  allow  them  to  remain  in 
ice  water,  which  will  soften  them.  \Mien  once  they  lose  their  hard, 
firm  consistency  they  are  considered  unfit  for  food. 

Frozen  fish  should  be  thawed  in  cold  water.  Fresh  fish  having; 
a  muddy  taste  or  smell  are  improved  by  soaking  in  salt  water.i 
Salted  fish  should  be  soaked  in  fresh  water,  with  the  skin  side  up: 
to  draw  out  the  salt. 

246.  To  dean  a  fish. — If  the  fish  have  scales,  remove  them  before 
opening.  To  do  this,  scrape  with  a  small,  sharp  knife  from  the  tail 
to  the  head;  hold  the  knife  at  an  angle,  resting  it  on  the  fish,  that  the 
scales  maybe  taken  upon  the  knife;  scrape  slowly,  that  thescalef 
may  not  fly  over  everything  near,  and  rinse  the  knife  often  in  cold 
water. 

When  the  fish  is  to  be  served  whole  do  not  remove  the  head  and 
tall.  Smelts  and  small  fish  served  whole  are  opened  under  the  gillt 
and  the  contents  sqeezed  out  by  pressing  from  the  middle  with  the 
thumb  and  finger.  Large  fish  are  split  open  from  the  gills  halfwaj 
down  the  lower  part  of  the  body,  the  entrails  removed,  and  th< 
inside  scraped  and  cleaned.  Open  far  enough  to  remove  all  the 
blood  on  the  backbone.  It  is  better  to  remove  the  sound,  which  i| 
the  white  part  adhering  to  the  bone,  though  it  is  often  left  in  the  fish, 

247.  To  skin  a  fish. — Cut  a  thin  narrow  strip  down  the  backbone, 
taking  off  the  dorsal  fin,  then  open  the  lower  part  halfway  down! 
Slip  the  knife  under  and  up  through  the  bony  part  of  the  gills,  hoU 
this  bony  part  between  the  thumb  and  finger,  and  strip  the  skirl 
off  toward  the  tail.     Next  do  the  same  on  the  other  side.     Smal; 


MANUAL  FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  79 

ash,  like  mackerel  and  whitefish,  when  dressed  for  broiling  should 
\>e  split  through  the  back. 

248.  To  bone  a  fish. — Clean  and  strip  off  the  skin;  lay  the  fish 
flat  on  a  board;  begin  at  the  tail  and  run  the  knife  under  the  flesh 
;lo8e  to  the  bone,  holding  the  flesh  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  the 
lakes.  When  the  fish  on  one  side  is  removed  slip  the  knife  under 
ihe  bone  on  the  other  side  and  raise  the  bone,  leaving  the  flesh  on 
ihe  board;  then  pull  out  all  the  small  bones  left  in  the  flesh,  which 
;an  be  easily  felt  with  the  fingers.  Fish  with  many  bones,  like 
jhad  and  herring,  are  not  boned;  but  from  cod,  husk,  mackerel, 
jrhitefish,  and  haddock  they  may  be  easily  removed. 

Fillets  of  fish. — Fillets  of  fish  are  the  flesh  separated  from  the 
jone  and  served  whole  or  divided,  as  the  case  may  require.  Floun- 
ler,  sole,  halibut,  and  bass  should  have  the  fillets  on  each  side  di- 
idded  lengthwise,  making  four  long  thin  pieces  or  fillets.  Other 
lish  are  cut  into  thin  slices  or  squares.  Very  small  fish  may  be 
.?plit,  the  bones  removed,  and  the  whole  fish  rolled  up  from  the 
:ail  to  the  head  and  fastened  with  a  skewer 


Chapter  IV. 

THE  ELEMENTARY  PRINCIPLES   OF  COOKING  AND  THE 
ELEMENTS    OF   NUTRITION. 

249.  Preparation  of  food,  or  proper  cooking,  has  much  to  do  with 
the  nutritive  value.  Cooking  changes  food  into  more  soluble  forms 
and  renders  it  more  nutritious  and  appetizing.  The  application  of 
the  heat  necessary  for  cooking  destroys  any  disease  germs,  parasites, 
and  dangerous  organisms  that  the  food  may  contain.  This  applies 
to  both  animal  and  vegetaljle  food.  The  cooking  of  meat  brings 
out  the  flavor  and  odor  of  the  extractives  and  softens  the  gelatin- 
oids  of  the  connective  tissues,  making  the  meat  more  tender.  Ex- 
treme heat,  however,  has  a  tendency  to  harden  the  lean  portions 
(albuminoids)  and  decrease  the  flavor. 

Meats  lose  weight  in  cooking,  mainly  through  the  loss  of  water. 
The  nutritive  value  of  beef  soup  depends  upon  the  substances  dis 
solved  by  the  water  out  of  the  meat,  bones,  and  gristle. 

In  many  vegetables  the  valuable  portions  (carbohydrates)  are 
contained  in  tiny  cells  with  thick  walls  on  which  the  digestive 
juices  have  little  effect.  The  heat  of  cooking  ruptures  these  walls 
and  makes  the  starch  more  soluble.  The  heat  tends  also  to  produce 
agreeable  flavors  by  changing  the  starch  into  sugar. 

Flour  is  made  more  palatable  in  the  form  of  bread,  cake,  and 
pastry  through  the  use  of  compressed  air,  yeast,  or  baking  powder. 

Scrupulous  cleanliness  should  always  be  obser\'ed  in  handling, 
keeping,  and  serving  the  food.  This  is  most  important  for  the  sake 
of  health.  Cleanliness  in  handling  food  not  onl^'^  consists  in  personal 
cleanliness,  the  cleanliness  of  utensils,  kitchen  equipment,  etc., 
but  also  freedom  from  undesirable  bacteria,  other  minute  organisms, 
worms,  and  parasites.  ^  Food,  raw  or  cooked,  should  be  kept  scrupu- 
lously clean,  whether  in  the  market,  the  cart,  or  the  storeroom; 
otherwise  it  is  likely  to  be  contaminated.     Infected  water,  milk, 


MANUAL  FOE  ABMY   COOKS.  81 

oysters,  and  certain  vegetables  have  been  known  to  spread  typhoid, 
cholera,  scarlet  fever,  and  diphtheria,  thus  bringing  sickness  and 
death  to  large  numbers  of  people. 

Meats  may  also  contain  parasites  such  as  tapeworms  in  beef,  pork, 
and  mutton,  also  trichinae  in  pork,  which  are  always  injurious  to 
the  health. 

Vegetables,  too,  have  been  known  to  become  contaminated  with 
the  eggs  of  parasites,  due  to  certain  garden  fertilizers. 

Raw  fruits  and  vegetables  should  always  be  thoroughly  cleaned 
before  eating.  The  heat  of  cooking  is  usually  sufficient  to  destroy 
all  dangerous  organisms. 

250.  Methods  of  cooking. — The  object  to  be  attained  will  often 
decide  the  manner  of  cooking.  For  example,  in  roasting  meat  we 
desire  to  retain  the  juices  within.  Hence  the  meat  is  placed  in  a 
very  hot  oven  to  seal  the  pores  and  prevent  the  escape  of  the  juices, 
the  oven  being  reduced  to  a  lower  temperature  when  the  meat  has 
been  thoroughly  browned. 

To  make  beef  stock,  first  place  the  bones  and  fresh  meat  in  cold 
water  for  some  time,  as  the  juices  of  the  bones  and  meat  are  readily- 
extracted  in  this  manner.  The  process  is  hastened  by  the  addi- 
tion of  a  little  salt. 

To  make  a  stew  or  potpie,  a  part  of  the  meat  juices  should  be 
retained  in  the  meat  and  a  part  in  the  surrounding  liquid;  hence 
we  place  the  meat  in  cold  water  and  bring  it  to  a  boil  as  soon  as 
possible  in  order  to  seal  the  pores  after  a  certain  amount  of  the  juice 
has  been  extracted. 

To  get  the  best  results  in  boiling  beef,  it  is  necessary  to  retain  the 

juices  within  the  meat.     For  this  reason  the  water  is  made  to  boil 

briskly  before  the  meat  is  introduced.    Upon  contact  with  the  hot 

water  the  pores  are  sealed.    The  temperature  is  then  lowered  and 

)  the  cooking  continued  at  a  simmering  point. 

Size^  of  articles. — The  time  required  for  cooking  any  article  depends 
upon  its  size;  consequently,  when  several  pieces  of  meat  are  roasted 
in  the  same  pan,  or  when  potatoes  are  baked  together  in  the  same 
oven,  an  effort  should  be  made  to  have  them  abotit  the  same  size. 


82  MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 

Beason  for  uniform  texture. — It  is  owing  to  the  maintenance  of  an 
even  temperature  in  the  presence  of  moisture  that  it  is  possible  to 
make  bread,  cakes,  meat  balls,  fritters,  etc.,  of  the  same  texture 
throughout,  while  a  thin  brown  crust  is  formed  on  the  surface.  It 
has  been  shown  by  the  use  of  a  maximum  thermometer  that  while 
the  temperature  of  a  baking  oven  is  about  450°  F.,  the  temperature 
within  a  loaf  of  bread  while  baking  never  rises  appreciably  above 
212°  F.,  the  highest  temperature  of  free  steam. 

251.  Temperature  of  baking,  etc. — Frequently  too  little  attention 
is  paid  to  the  proper  temperature  of  the  oven  and  to  the  general 
character  of  the  meat  or  other  articles  to  be  cooked.  For  example, 
a  temperature  that  is  exactly  right  for  browning  a  roast  will  ruin  a 
fruit  cake  in  a  few  minutes.  To  roast  properly  a  tough  piece  of  meat 
requires  a  "slow"  oven  and  much  time  in  order  .to  permit  the  heat 
to  penetrate  to  the  center,  thoroughly  dissolving  and  breaking  down 
the  tissues,  thus  making  it  tender,  while  a  small  piece  of  meat  can 
be  roasted  in  a  "quick  oven."  It  is  this  principle  of  slow  cooking 
in  a  moderately  low  temperature  for  a  long  period  that  renders  the 
fireless  cooker  so  much  superior  to  anything  else  for  certain  kinds  of 
work,  especially  that  of  cooking  tough  meat  until  it  is  tender. 

To  determine  the  temperature  of  an  oven. — A  good  practical  method 
of  determining  the  temperature  of  an  oven  is  to  insert  the  hand  well 
into  it  and  count  the  number  of  seconds  that  you  are  able  to  keep  it 
there.  In  counting,  repeat  moderately  slowly  0-1000,  1-1000, 
2-1000,  and  the  small  numbers  indicated  will  correspond  very  closely 
to  the  number  of  seconds.  The  burning  sensation  experienced  about 
the  roots  of  the  nails  is  sufficiently  uniform  to  the  experienced  cook 
to  render  this  a  reliable  method.  It  is  followed  by  the  experienced 
chef  and  should  be  by  the  student  cook.  If  the  temperature  of  the 
oven  is  somewhat  greater  than  anticipated,  food  will  often  have  the 
appearance  of  being  well  done,  when,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  cooking 
has  barely  b^:un.  For  this  reason  a  cook  should  have  some  idea  ms 
to  the  "times"  of  cooking,  as  well  as  to  oven  temperatures.  Con- 
sult the  following  t*ble. 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 


83 


252.  Table  of  oven  temperatures  as  determined  by  the  hand- 
second  counts: 


First 
counts. 


Counts 
after 

brown- 
ing. 


Time. 


Meats: 

Beef  roast,  5-pound  pieces 

Mutton  roast,  5-pound  pieces 

Pork  roast,  5-pound  pieces 

Veal  roaijt,  5-pound  pieces 

Venison  roast,  5- pound  pieces 

Turkey  roast,  12  pounds  each 

Chicken  roast,  3  pounds  each 

Duck  roast,  3  pounds  each 

Salmon  hash 

Vegetables: 

Beans 

Carrots 

Parsnips 

Potatoes,  baked 

Potatoes,  browned 

Potatoes,  cheesed 

Potatoes,  hashed 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise 

Potatoes,  sweet 

Squash 

Breads: 

Braided  bread,  2-oxmce 

Cirmamon  rolls,  2-ounce 

Jenny  Linds,  16-ounce 

Muffins,  2-ounce 

Parkerhouse  rolls,  2-ounce 

Raisin  buns,  2-ounce 

Sandwich  buns,  2-ounce 

Tea  buns,  2-ounce 

French  bread,  18-ounce  (13  inches  long). 
Cakes* 

Apple,  16-ounce  (6  by  10  inches) 

Cofiee,  16-ounce  (6  by  10  inches) 

Apple  kutchen,  16-ounce 


li  to  2i  hours. 
2  to  24  hours. 
2  to  3}  hours. 
24  to  3  hoiu^. 
2h  to  3  hours. 
2  to  34  hours. 
U  hours. 
l|  hours. 
1  to  1^  hours. 

12  hours. 

1  hour. 

40  to  60  minutes. 

30  to  40  minutes. 

20  to  30  minutes. 

40  minutes. 

30  minutes. 

30  minutes. 

30  to  60  minutes. 

30  to  40  minutes. 


to  25  minutes, 
to  15  minutes, 
to  40  minutes, 
to  30  minutes, 
to  15  minutes, 
to  40  minutes, 
to  15  minutes, 
to  40  minutes, 
minutes. 


20  to  30  minutes. 
15  to  20  minutes. 
25  to  30  minutes. 


84  MANUAL  FOR  AEMY   COOKS. 

253.  Cold  is  used  in  preventing  fermentation,  hence  is  a  preserva- 
tive of  food.  We  constantly  make  use  of  this  fact  by  placing  butter, 
milk,  meats,  etc.,  in  the  ice  box;  by  storing  certain  vegetables  and 
fruits  in  root  cellars  and  pita  in  the  ground ;  by  preserving  yeast  in 
a  cool  place;  and  by  stopping  the  further  proving  (rising)  of  dough, 
so  that  it  shall  not  be  ready  to  bake  before  the  oven  is  ready  to  receive 
it.  Fresh  meat  will  keep  better  in  a  moderately  cool,  dry  place  than 
in  a  damp  ice  box  at  a  much  lower  temperature.  Should  hot  weather 
require  the  use  of  the  ice  box,  the  meat  should  not  come  in  contact 
with  the  walls  or  with  the  ice. 

Cold  water  keeps  fresh  vegetables  from  wilting.  It  quickly 
restores  such  garden  truck  as  radishes,  lettuce,  onions,  etc.,  that 
have  been  exposed  to  the  sun  after  gathering  or  have  been  left  in  a 
warm  temperature  for  a  time,  rendering  them  fresh,  crisp,  and 
wholesome.  Potatoes  and  turnips  that  have  been  peeled  must  be 
placed  in  cold  water  to  keep  them  crisp  and  to  prevent  them  from 
becoming  discolored  and  tough.  If  cooked  while  wilted  and  dis- 
colored they  retain  their  discoloration  and  toughness  to  a  con- 
siderable extent. 

Cold  water  draws  out  certain  unde^rable  flavors  when  vegetables 
and  certain  canned,  barreled,  or  dried  fish  and  meats  are  submerged 
in  it.  It  also  extracts  the  juices  from  meats  and  bones.  This  process 
is  hastened  by  the  addition  of  a  small  Quantity  of  salt. 

254.  Flavors. — Food  should  possess  decided  flavors  without  being 
too  highly  seasoned.  It  should  be  served  hot  or  cold  as  intended. 
Generally  we  like  our  tea,  coffee,  cooked  vegetables,  and  meats 
served  hot,  while  we  prefer  our  drinking  water,  butter,  salads,  fresh 
fruits,  such  garden  truck  as  lettuce,  radishes,  and  onions,  and  many 
of  our  desserts  served  cold.  Many  components  of  a  meal  that  are 
lukewarm  instead  of  decidedly  hot  or  cold  are  most  unappetizing. 

255.  Seasoning. — Cooks  must  not  be  satisfied  with  learning  the 
proper  proportions  of  ingredients  and  think  that  the  work  is  done 
when  the  cooking  begins.  Food  must  be  properly  prepared,  deli- 
cately seasoned,  and  served  hot  or  cold  as  desired.  Lukewarm,  ill- 
seasoned  food  is  unpalatable,  and  if  served  in  a  slovenly  manner 
is  most  unappetizing.  Any  amount  of  seasoning  at  the  table  can 
not  make  up  for  poor  seasoning  in  cooking.  The  same  flavors  can 
not  be  obtained.    The  only  cook  that  should  be  styled  a  chef  is  one 


MANUAL   FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  85 

who  uses  the  proper  proportions  in  cooking,  who  delicately  seasons 
his  food  and  serves  it  in  an  appetizing  manner. 

The  heat  of  cooking  seems  to  create  new  flavors  and  to  change  the 
odor,  taste,  and  digestibility  of  nearly  all  food.  It  swells  and  bursts 
the  starch  cells  in  flour,  rice,  and  potatoes.  It  hardens  the  albumen 
of  eggs,  fish,  and  meat  and  softens  the  fibrous  substances  in  tough 
meats,  vegetables,  and  fruits.  It  develops  new  flavors  in  tea,  coffee, 
roast  meate,  vegetables,  crusts  of  bread,  baked  beans,  etc. 

Air  (or  the  oxygen  which  it  contains)  plavs  an  important  part  in 
the  development  of  certain  flavors.  Steak  broiled  in  the  open  air, 
bread  toasted  in  the  same  manner,  and  roasted  ears  of  corn  possess 
certain  flavors  that  can  not  be  obtained  in  any  other  way. 

It  is  also  noticeable  that  articles  of  food  cooked  in  a  closed  oven 
possess  certain  flavors  that  are  lost  if  the  cooking  is  done  in  the  open 
air  on  the  top  of  the  range. 

Baked  apples  have  a  particularly  fine  flavor,  largely  due  to  trans- 
formation of  starch  into  sugar  and  to  the  caramelization  of  the  sugar 
used  in  baking. 

It  is  generally  believed  that  certain  vegetables,  such  as  tumipa 
and  cabbages,  should  be  well  ventilated  while  boiling,  in  order  that 
the  obnoxious  sulphurous  and  other  gases  may  escape  from  the  food 
and  that,  if  this  is  not  done,  the  vegetables  will  possess  an  inferior 
flavor,  become  discolored,  and  contain  certain  elements  that  are 
injurious.  Nevertheless,  cabbages  and  turnips  can  be  boiled  per- 
fectly and  will  retain  their  fresh  color  and  desirable  flavor  by  sub- 
merging them  in  boiling  water  for  a  half  hour  or  so,  according  to  the 
size.  In  this  way  obnoxious  fumes  do  not  escape,  but  such  sulphur 
as  is  extracted  from  the  vegetables  remains  in  the  water. 

Water  is  a  necessity  in  certain  forms  of  cooking.  For  example, 
beans  and  peas  have  to  absorb  a  great  deal  of  water  to  replace  that 
lost  in  the  process  of  ripening  before  they  can  be  made  into  palatable 
food.    The  same  may  be  said  of  desiccated  (dried)  fruits. 

256.  Deep  lard. — The  advantage  of  choking  in  deep  lard  lies  in  the 
fact  that  lard  or  drippings  can  be  heated  to  such  an  extremely  high 
temperature  that  certain  articles  can  be  thoroughly  cooked  without 
giving  time  for  the  grease  to  soak  into  them.  Grease  boils  at  about 
665  to  600°  F.,  but  this  temperature  is  too  high  for  cooking;  the  ex- 
terior of  the  food  would  be  burned  before  it  is  cooked  throughout. 


86  MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

The  grease  begins  to  smoke  between  385  and  450°  F.,  and  this  is 
the  best  temperature  at  which  to  use  it.  A  common  error  is  to 
introduce  too  much  food  at  one  time,  cooling  the  fat  and  allowing  it 
to  soak  into  the  food  before  it  is  thoroughly  cooked.  If  this  fact  is 
borne  in  mind,  almost  anything  that  can  be  fried  at  all  can  be  fried 
in  "deep  lard."  Meat  balls,  potato  balls,  and  croquettes  are  rolled 
in  egg  and  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  before  frying;  the  egg  coagulates, 
and  the  crumbs,  which  are  held  in  place  by  it,  form  a  brown  crust 
surrounding  the  ball,  and  the  grease  is  prevented  from  penetrating 
further.  Corn  fritters  contain  eggs,  and  a  good  crust  is  quickly 
formed,  preventing  the  penetration  of  the  grease. 

It  is  noticed  that  as  soon  as  the  articles  mentioned  have  been 
dropped  into  the  grease  which  is  far  below  its  boiling  point  a  violent 
ebullition  is  observed.  This  is  due  to  the  escape  of  steam  formed 
by  contact  of  the  moisture  in  the  article  introduced  with  the  hot 
grease.  All  articles  fried  in  deep  lard  should  have  as  dry  a  surface 
as  possible.  If  food  with  a  damp  siu-face  is  introduced,  grease  is 
apt  to  be  thrown  out  upon  the  range,  take  fire,  and  cause  trouble. 

ELEMENTS    OF   NUTRITION'. 

257.  The  problem  of  proper  nutrition  has  always  been  of  great 
importance,  yet  scientilic  study  of  this  subject  is  comparatively 
recent.  Food  investigation  has  been  carried  on  in  Europe  for 
almost  three-quarters  of  a  century.  It  is  more  recent  in  the  United 
States. 

Constant  use  has  made  us  familiar  with  oiu:  ordinary  foods,  but 
we  seldom  realize  how  complicated  they  are.  To  understand  them 
requires  much  study  of  chemistry,  physics,  and  physiology — more, 
indeed,  than  the  average  man  desires  to  trouble  with.  However, 
we  can  better  understand  dieting  and  feeding  of  men  by  being 
famihar  with  a  few  of  the  elementary  principles  of  nutrition. 

258.  The  chemical  composition  of  the  body  and  of  food  are  very 
similar.  They  are  made  up  of  the  same  chemical  elements  and 
should  be  discussed  together.  From  15  to  20  of  these  elements  are 
found  in  both  the  body  and  food.  The  most  abundant  of  these  are 
oxygen,  hydrogen,  carbon,  nitrogen,  calcium,  phosphorus,  and 
sulphur.    These  elements  are  so  combined  as  to  fonn  a  great  variety 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY   COOKS.  87 

of  compounds,  of  which  the  most  important  are  protein,  fats,  carbo- 
hydrates, mineral  matter,  and  water. 

The  functions  of  these  compounds  in  the  food  are  to  build  and 
repair  the  tissues,  to  furnish  muscular  and  other  power  for  the  work 
the  body  has  to  do,  and  to  furnish  heat  to  keep  the  body  warm. 

259.  Water  is  the  most  abundant  of  these  compounds.  It  forms 
over  60  per  cent  of  the  weight  of  the  body  of  the  average  man  and  is 
a  component  part  of  all  the  tissues.  It  is  an  important  part  of  food, 
although  it  cannot  be  burned  and  yields  no  energy  to  the  body. 

200.  Mineral  matter  yields  little  or  no  energy,  yet  is  indispensable 
to  the  body.  It  forms  only  5  or  6  per  cent  of  the  body  by  weight 
and  is  found  chiefly  in  the  bones  and  teeth,  but  is  alsopresent  in 
the  other  tissues  and  in  solution  in  the  various  fluids.  When  food, 
or  body  material,  is  burned,  the  mineral  constituents  remain  as  ash. 

261.  Protein. — The  term  includes  the  principal  nitrogenous  com- 
pounds in  foods  which  are  the  tissue  formers  and  make  the  frame- 
work of  the  body,  build  up  and  repair  the  nitrogenous  materials  such 
as  the  muscles  and  tendons,  and  supply  the  albuminoids  of  the  blood, 
milk,  and  other  fluids. 

These  compounds  form  about  18  per  cent  of  the  weight  of  the  body 
and  are  subdivided  into: 

Albuminoids,  which  include  substances  similar  to  the  white  of  an 
egg,  the  lean  of  meat,  curd  of  milk,  and  gluten  of  wheat. 

Gelatinoids,  which  occur  principally  in  the  connective  tissues,  such 
as  the  collagen  of  the  skin  and  tendons,  and  the  ossein  of  the  bones. 

Extractives  are  the  principal  ingredients  of  meat  extracts,  beef  tea^ 
and  beef  stock.  They  are  believed  neither  to  build  tissue  nor  to- 
fumish  energy,  but  to  act  as  stimulants  and  appetizers.  The  craving, 
which  some  persons  have  for  meats  is  believea  to  be  due,  in  part,  tO' 
a  desire  for  these  extractives.  The  same  compounds  are  found  in. 
potatoes  and  other  vegetable  foods. 

The  albuminoids  and  gelatinoids  are  the  most  important  elements 
of  our  food.  They  are  essential,  as  they  make  the  basis  of  bone,  mus- 
cle, and  other  tissues.  They  are  most  abundant  in  animal  food  such 
as  lean  meat,  though  the  cereals  contain  them  to  a  considerable  ex- 
tent, and  peas  and  beans  in  large  proportion. 

262.  Fats,  which  form  about  15  per  cent  of  the  weight  of  the  ordi- 
nary man,  occur  chiefly  in  animal  foods  such  aa  meat,  fish,  butter, 


88  MANUAL   FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 

etc.  They  are  also  abundant  in  some  vegetable  products  such  as 
olives  and  cotton  seed,  from  which  the  oils  are  derivafd.  They  also 
are  found  in  some  cereals,  notably  oatmeal  and  maize  and  in  various 
nuts.  In  our  bodies,  and  those  of  other  animals,  fats  occur  in  masses 
under  the  skin  and  in  other  locations  and  in  minute  particles  throu^- 
out  the  tissues.  The  amount  of  fat  in  the  body  varies  with  condi- 
tions. "WTien  more  food  is  taken  than  is  necessary  for  intmediate 
use  part  of  it  is  stored  as  a  reserve  chiefly  in  the  form  of  fat,  \V^en 
the  rood  supply  is  short  this  reserve  material  is  drawn  upon  for" sup- 
plementary fuel. 

^  263.  Carbohydrates,  which  form  only  about  1  per  cent  of  the  lj)Gd-y 
tissues,  include  such  compounds  aa  starches,  migars,  and  fibeis  at 
plants  (cellulose).  They  are  found  chiefly  in  vegetable  food — cenft- 
als,  potatoes,  and  fruits — forming  an  abundant  source  of  energy-,  aad 
are  imjjortant  food  ingredients,,  easily  digested.  They  are  trans- 
iormed  into  fat  in  the  body  and  remaik  stored  in  concentrated  form^ 
for  future  use. 

264.  Befuse  is  that  part  of  our  food ,.  such  as  bones  of  jSsh  and  meat , 
shells  of  eggs,  skins  and  seeds  of  fruit  and  vegetables,  etc.,  which 
ha^•e  little  or  no  nutritive  value  and  which  are  either  unpalatable 
or  can  not  be  easily  digested .  These  materialah  contain  the  same  in- 
gredients as  the  edible  portions,,  though  ueually  in  smaller  pro- 
portion. 

265.  Use  of  expensive  food. — ^The  mistake  is  often  made  of  pur- 
chasing expensive  varieties  of  food  when  chescper  ones  will  answer 
the  purpose  just  as  well.  The  cause  of  this  error  is  ignorance  of  the 
simple  principles  of  nutrition  and  the  result  is  a  waste  of  monev. 
The  maxim  "the  best  is  the  cheapest"  does  not  apply  to  the  high- 

Ericed  foods.  The  plain  substantial  standard  food  materials,  like 
sb,  milk,  flour,  com  meal,  oatmeal,  beans,  potatoes,,  and  the  cheaper 
cuts  of  meat  are  as  digestible  and  as  nourishing  to  people  in  good 
health  as  the  more  expensive  articles. 

An  understanding  of  the  elements  of  nutrition,,  skillful  cooking, 
and  tairt-eful  servdng  will  effect  a  sa\ing  that  will  be  surprising. 

266.  A  balanced  diet  is  one  that  supplies  the  proper  amount  of 
nourishment  to  the  body  without  ha\Tng  any  component  greatly  in 
excess  of  the  requirements.  Unless  great  care  is  exercised  a  diet  will 
result  which  is  one-sided  or  badly  bal^uiced;  that  ia,.  one  wrhich  gives 


MANUAL  FOB  A*MY   COOKS,  89 

an  excess  of  either  protein  or  carbohydrates.  If  a  pereon  eats  lar^ 
quantities  of  meat  and  few  vegetables,  the  food  is  too  rich  in  protein 
and  probably  harmful.  On  the  other  hand,  if  he  eats  vegetable  food 
to  the  exclusion  of  meat  he  may  overload  his  digestive  organs  with 
surplus  food  of  that  kind,  which  produces  an  excess  of  carbohydrates. 

The  Army  ration,  however,  is  well  balanced  and  supplies  the 
various  ingredients  in  the  proper  proportions.  The  mess  sergeant 
should  study  the  following  table  of  food  values  as  a  guide  in  purchas- 
ing the  varieties  of  food  required  to  make  the  mess  attractive.  He 
should  endeavor  to  select  the  cheaper  articles  which  assure  the 
greatest  fuel  value,  other  things  being  equal, 

267.  The  table  is  of  special  interest  when  eomparing-  the  useful- 
ness to  the  system  of  different  classes  of  foods  or  when  determining' 
the  relative  value  of  substitutive  articles.  For  example,  m 
order  to  keep  down  the  expenses  of  a  mess  and  to  add  variety  it  may- 
be desirable  to  substitute  beans  for  meat  on  certain  days,  Witn 
either  beans  or  meat,  potatoes  would  probably  be  served,  but  when 
beans  are  placed  on  the  bill  of  fare,  they  may  take  the  place  not  only 
of  meat,  but  also  of  a  "second  vegetable,  "  as  onions,  tomatoes,  cab- 
bage, turnips,  etc. 

Assume  that  a  mess  of  100  men  consumes  at  the  noon  meal  45 
pounds  of  solid  beef,  and  as  a  second  vegetable,  25  pounds  erf  onions. 

From  the  tables  of  food  values  we  note: 

Calories, 

45  (pounds  roand)  X  890  calories 40,050 

25  (povinds  onions)  X  190  calories : 4,750 

Total „,    44,800 

Now  substitute  a  mess  of  beans  for  the  above.  Twenty-five  jwunds 
of  beans  and  five  pounds  of  bacon  (for  fat  and  flavor)  are  considered 
sufficient. 

From  the  tables  of  food  values  we  note: 

Calories. 

25  (pounds  beans)  X  1,520  calories ^^ 38,000' 

5  (pounds  bacon)  X  2,715  calories 13,575 

Total 51,575 

Assumiitg  that  the  latter  are  as  fully  digested  as  the  meat  and 
Dnions,  it  would  seem  that  the  ordinary  addition  of  from  20  to  25 
poimds  of  bacon  is  an  onneceasary  expense. 


90 


MANUAL   FOB   ARMY    COOKS. 


In  the  same  way  it  may  be  shown  that  macaroni  and  cheese  may 
be  used  as  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  meat,  and  practical  results  bear 
out  bur  theoretical  deduction.  In  either  case,  the  amount  of  pro- 
tein (muscle-building  material)  and  of  fat  and  carbohydrates  (energy 
producers)  compare  favorably  with  that  found  in  the  meat.  In  the 
same  way  it  may  be  showTi  that  fresh  garden  truck  should  not  con- 
stitute the  bulk  of  any  meal.  Compare  the  fuel  value  of  coffee, 
cocoa,  chocolate,  etc. 

268.  Average  composition  and  fuel  value  of  common  food  products. 


Food  materials  (as  purchased). 

Refuse. 

Water. 

Pro- 
tein. 

Fat. 

Carbo- 
hy- 
drates. 

Ash. 

Fuel 
value 

per 
pound. 

ANIMAL  FOOD. 

Beef,  fresh: 

Per 

cent. 

12.7 

20.8 

7.2 

18.7 

15.7 

8.4 

24.5 
20.7 

21.2 
17.2 

10.7 
12.4 

13.6 

Per 
cent. 
52.4 
43.8 
60.7 
49.1 
50.4 
49.2 

54.2 
56.2 

41.6 
45.4 

48.0 
44.9 

34.8 

Per 
cent. 
19.1 
13.9 
19.0 
14.5 
1.5.4 
14.3 

15.1 
16.2 

12.3 
13.8 

13.5 
12.0 

14.2 

Per 
cent. 
17.9 
21.2 
12.8 
17.5 
18.3 
23.8 

6.0 
6.6 

24.5 
23.2 

25.9 
29.8 

33.4 
86.2 
62.2 
44.2 

.4 
1.1 

12.3 

18.4 

Per 
cent. 

Per 

cent. 

0.8 

Calo- 
Ties. 
1,100 

Ribs 

.7 

1,135 

Round 

1.0 

.7 

::i  d 

890 

Forequarter  . . 

995 

1,045 

Beef,  corned 

1  245 

Veal: 

Forequarter 



■*"'i.'i" 
1.1 

5.9 

.7 

.8 

.7 
.7 

.8 
.7 

4.2 
3.9 
4.1 
2.2 

1.2 
1.5 

.7 

.8 

535 

Hindquarter 

580 

Mutton: 

Forequarter 

1,235 

Hindquarter 

1  210 

Pork,  fresh: 

Ham 

1,320 

Shoulder 

1,450 

Pork,salted;  cured  and  pickled: 
Ham,  smoked 

1,635 
3,555 
2  715 

Salt  pork 

7.9  1     1-9 

Bacon,  smoked . . 

7.7 

17.4 
39.8 

92.9 
90.0 

47.1 

9.1 
13.0 

4.4 

1.8 

1,7 

Sausage:  Pork 

2,075 
120 

Soups: 

Beef 

Tomato 

185 

Poultry: 

Fowls 

25.9 
22.7 

765 

Turkey 

42.4  1  16.1 

1.060 

MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  91 

Average  composition  and  fuel  value  of  common  food  products — Con. 


Food  materials  (as  purchased). 

Refuse. 

Water. 

Pro- 
tein. 

Fat. 

Carbo- 
hy- 
drates. 

Ash. 

Fuel 

value 

per 

pound. 

ANIMAL  FOOD— continued. 

Fish: 

Mackerel,  whole,  fr3sh 

Shad,  whole,  fresh 

Cod,  salt . . 

Per 
cent. 
44.7 
50.1 
24.9 

Per 
cent. 
40.4 
35.2 
40.2 
63.5 
88.3 
65.5 

11.0 
87.0 
90.5 
26.9 
74.0 
34.2 

11.3 

12.0 
12.0 
10.3 
12.9 
12.5 
7.7 
12.3 
11.4 

Per 
cent. 
10.2 

9.4 
16.0 
21.8 

6.0 
13.1 

1.0 
3.3 
3.4 
8.8 
2.5 
25.9 

13.3 

11.4 
14.0 
13.4 
6.8 
9.2 
16.7 
8.0 
.4 

Per 

cent. 

4.2 

4.8 

.4 

12.1 

1.3 

9.3 

85.0 

4.0 

.3 

8.3 

18.5 

33.7 

2.2 

1.0 

1.9 

.9 

.9 

1.9 

7.3 

.3 

.1 

Per 
cent. 

'"'*3.'3' 

""h'.o 

5.1 

54.1 

4.5 

2.4 

71.4 

75.1 
71.2 
74.1 
78.7 
75.4 
66.2 
79.0 
88.0 
90.0 

53.1 
52.1 
53.2 

70.0 
100.0 
71.4 

Per 

cent. 

.   .7 

.7 

18.5 

2.6 

1.1 

.9 

3.0 
.7 
.7 

1.9 
.5 

3.8 

1.8 
.5 

^■.l 

.7 

1.0 

2.1 

.4 

.1 

1.1 
1.5 
1.5 

Calo- 
ries. 
370 
380 
325 

Salmon,  canned 

915 

Oysters, '  =  solids" 

225 

11.2 

635 

3,410 
310 

Dairy  products,  etc.: 
Butter . . 

"Whole  milk 

Skim  milk . 

165 

Condensed  milk. 

1  430 

Cream 

'865 

Cheese,  full  cream 

1  885 

VEGETABLE  FOCI). 

Flour,  meal,  etc.: 

Graham  flour 

1  645 

Wheat  (lour,  patent  roller 
process — 
High  grade  and  me- 
dium   

1  635 

Low  grade ' 

1*640 

Macaroni,  vermicelli,  etc 

1  645 

Ryefiour 

l'620 

Com  meal 

1,635 

1  8oa 

Oat  breakfast  food 

Rice 

1,620- 

Tapioca 

1  650 

Starch 

l|675. 
1  200' 

Bread,  pastry,  etc.: 
•    Whitebread 

35.3 
35.7 
35.7 

9.2 

8.9 
9.0 

1.3 

1.8 
.6 

Graham  bread 

1,195 

Rye  bread 

1  170' 

Sugars,  etc.: 

Molasses 

1,225 
1,750 

Sugar,  granulated 

Maplesirup 



1.250. 

^2  MANUAL  FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

Average  composition  and  fuel  value  of  common  food  products — Con. 


Food  materials  (as  purchased), 


VEGETABLE  FOOD— Continued, 

Vegetables: 

Beans,  dried 

Beans,  lima,  shelled 

Beets 

Cabbage 

Celery 

Com,  green  (svreet),  edible 
portion 

Cucumbers 

Lettuce 

Onions 

Parsn  ips 

Peas,  dried 

Potatoes 

Rhubarb 

Sweet  potatoes 

Squash 

Tomatoes 

Turnips 

Fruits,  etc.,  fresh: 

Apples 

Bananas 

Muskmelons 

Oranges 

Watermelons 

Fruits,  dried: 

Apples 

Apricots 

Miscellaneous: 

Chocolate 

Cocoa,  powdered 

Cereal  coffee,  infusion  (1 
part  boiled  in  20  parts 
water) , 


Refuse 


Per 
cent. 


20.0 
15.0 
20.0 


15.0 
15.0 
10.0 
20.0 


20.0 
40.0 
20.0 
50.0 


30.0 

25.0 
35.0 
50.0 
27.0 
59.4 


Water. 


Per 

cent. 
12.6 
68.5 
70.0 
77.7 
75.6 

75.4 
81.1 
80.5 
78.9 
66.4 
9.5 
62.6 
66.6 
55.2 
44.2 
94.3 
62.7 

63.3 
48.9 
44.8 
63.4 
37.5 


5.9 

4.6 


98.2 


Pro- 
tein. 


Per 

cent. 

22.5 
7.1 
1.3 
1.4 


3.1 

.7 

1.0 

1.4 

1.3 

24.6 

1.8 

.4 

1.4 

.7 

.9 

.9 

.3 
.8 
.3 


1.6 
4.7 


12.4 
21.6 


Fat. 


Per 

cent. 
1.8 
.7 
.1 
.2 
.1 

1.1 
.2 
.2 
.3 
.4 

1.0 
.1 
.4 
.6 
.2 
.4 
.1 

.3 
.4 


2.1 
1.0 


48.7 


Carbo- 
hy- 
drates. 


Per 

cent. 
59.6 
22.0 

7.7 
4.8 
2.6 

19.7 
2.6 
2.5 
8.9 

10.8 

62:0 

14.7 
2.2 

21.9 
4.5 
3.9 
5.7 

10.8 

14.3 

4.6 

8.5 

2.7 

66.1 
62.5 


37.7 


Chapter  V. 

MANAGEMENT  OF  THE  COMPANY  MESS. 

269.  Kitchen  economy. — In  organizations  of  from  40  to  75  men  the 
following  enlisted  men  are  required  for  duty  in  the  company  mess: 

1  mess  sergeant. 
1  first  cook. 
1  second  cook. 

1  dining-room  orderly. 

2  cook's  police. 

For  a  larger  organization,  up  to  115  men,  there  should  be  one  addi- 
tional cook's  police.  In  organizations  of  from  115  to  150  men  an 
additional  cook  should  be  provided. 

270.  Duties  of  the  mess  sergeant. — The  mess  sergeant  is  in  imme- 
diate charge  of  the  mess  and  directly  responsible  for  its  management. 
He  should  be  a  well-instructed  cook,  if  possible  a  graduate  of  one 
of  the  training  schools,  and  especially  selected  on  account  of  his 
fitness  for  the  position. 

Under  the  direction  of  the  company  commander,  he  draws  or 
purchases  all  rations  and  other  supplies  required  for  the  company 
mess. 

He  prepares  all  bills  of  fare  and  submits  them  to  the  company 
commander  for  approval. 

He  submits  to  the  company  commander  a  daily  statement  show- 
ing the  exact  financial  condition  of  the  mess.  This  statement 
includes  receipts  from  all  sources  from  the  first  of  the  month,  the 
cash  credit  with  the  quartermaster,  value  of  stock  on  hand,  the 
allowance  from  the  company  fund,  if  any,  and  a  detailed  report  of 
the  expenditures.  A  balance  is  struck,  and  clearly  shows  wnether 
the  stock  on  hand,  the  credit  with  the  quartermaster,  and  the  unex- 
pended cash  are  sufficient  for  running  the  mess  for  the  number  of 
days  remaining  in  the  ration  period. 

He  is  responsible  for  the  care  and  preservation  of  the  rations  and 
sees  that  fresh  vegetables  are  picked  over  when  first  received. 


94  MANUAL    FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

Those  decayed  should  be  returned  to  the  quartermaster;  otherti 
not  in  first-class  condition  should  be  washed  and  dried  before  storing 

He  has  the  cooks'  wliite  clothing  laundered,  mended,  and  re- 
placed when  worn  out. 

He  frequently  checks  the  dishes  and  utensils  for  which  he  is 
responsible,  and  submits  at  the  end  of  the  month  a  list  of  all  broken 
or  missing  articles,  with  the  names  of  the  soldiers  against  whom 
charges  for  the  same  should  be  entered. 

He  has  the  ice  box  scrubbed  with  soap  and  hot  water  every  day 
just  before  the  ice  is  delivered.  He  requires  that  all  utensils, 
including  those  of  the  field  equipment,  are  kept  clean  and  in  their 
proper  places  when  not  in  use. 

He  requires  that  the  m3n  detailed  as  kitchen  police  report  not 
later  than  10  minutes  before  mess  call  for  breakfast  and  that  they 
absent  themselves  only  by  authority  or  in  case  of  actual  necessity. 

He  is  present  in  a  clean  white  coat  and  trousers  30  minutes  before 
mess  call  and  personally  supervises  the  final  preparation  of  the  food 
and  the  service  of  the  meals. 

He  is  responsible  for  the  orderly  conduct  of  those  present  at  meals 
and  that  all  enter  the  dining  room  in  proper  uniform  in  a  quiet  and 
orderly  manner  and  with  hands  and  faces  washed  and  hair  combed. 

He  has  the  kitchen  and  dining  room  prepared  for  inspection  at  the 
time  appointed  b>  the  company  commander. 

He  sees  that  all  the  seats  at  the  tables  are  occupied  in  succsssion, 
beginning  with  the  table  farthest  away  from  the  entrance.  He  pre- 
vents loud  talking  and  other  unnecessary  noises  and  requires  that 
the  men  wait  quietly  at  their  places  until  the  food  is  passed  to  them. 
He  prevents  them  from  wasting  food  by  taking  more  on  their  plates 
than  they  will  eat.  Food  left  on  the  plates  is  not  used  again;  that 
which  remains  on  the  platters,  serving  dishes,  etc.,  is  returned  to  the 
kitchen,  to  be  served  in  some  other  palatable  form  at  a  subsequent 
meal. 

He  has  the  garbage  and  slop  cans  frequently  emptied,  and  does 
not  allow  them  to  stand  in  the  kitchen  or  near  the  outside  doors. 
Tin  cans  and  other  noncombustible  materials  must  not  be  mixed 
with  slops  in  garbage  cans.  The  garbage  is  frequently  burned  and 
the  crematory  and  cans  clog  up  the  grates.  If  the  slops  are  carried 
away  for  hogs,  cans  and  glass  are  a  great  nuisance. 


MANUAL    FOB   ABMY    COOKS.  95 

271.  Suggestions  to  mess  sergeants. — The  bills  of  fare  should  vary 
constantly.  For  each  meal  there  should  be  at  least  one  dish  that  has 
not  been  served  for  some  time. 

Seasonings  penetrate  foods  best  in  the  liquid  or  semiliquid  state 
and  much  more  quickly  when  hot  than  when  cold,  and  consequently 
any  amount  of  seasoning  after  the  food  is  placed  on  the  table  can  not 
compensate  for  insufficient  or  careless  seasoning  while  in  the  course 
of  preparation . 

The  prevention  of  waste  and  the  proper  use  of  left-over  food  is  the 
secret  of  success  in  company  kitchens. 

The  kitchen  and  storeroom  flhould  be  kept  scrupulously  neat  and 
the  men  required  to  clean  up  immediately  after  finishing  each  piece 
of  work.  Floors  and  tables  should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  littered 
up  after  the  necessity  therefor  has  ceased.  A  piece  of  food  left  on 
the  floor  is  sure  to  be  stepped  on,  and  will  make  dozens  of  spots  instead 
of  o:ie.     Cleanliness  should  be  the  first  lesson  taught. 

The  kitchen  force  should  at  all  times  present  a  neat,  clean  appear- 
ance. Especially  should  the  cooks  be  clean  as  regards  their  toilet, 
as  they  are  continually  called  upon  to  mix  with  their  hands  such 
articles  as  cakes,  hashes,  etc.,  and  to  handle  nearly  all  food  products 
in  preparation  for  coolang.  Men  with  dirty  hands  or  untrimmed 
dirty  fingernails  communicate  filth  and  disease  germs  to  foodstuffs 
which  they  handle. 

Each  man  should  have  definite  duties  assigned  to  him,  for  which  he 
should  be  held  solely  responsible.  Work  must  not  be  assigned  in  a 
general  way  to  the  kitchen  force.  If  this  is  done,  it  frequently  hap- 
pens that  some  part  of  it  is  neglected  and  each  man  claims  that  he  is 
not  responsible. 

No  kitchen  can  be  managed  successfully  unless  each  man  knows 
what  is  expected  of  him.  Should  there  be  a  failure  on  the  part  of 
anyone  to  perform  his  share  of  work,  the  responsibility  should  be 
fixed  at  once  and  punishment  follow  immediately. 

Only  those  articles  and  cooking  utensils  being  used  in  the  kitchen 
or  dining  room  should  be  kept  by  the  mess  sergeant.  Other  articles 
should  be  turned  over  to  the  supply  sergeant  so  that  they  may  be 
held  in  reserve  to  replace  similar  ones  that  may  later  become  un- 
serviceable. Moreover  these  surplus  articles  must  be  kept  clean 
and  this  requires  unnecessary  labor. 

Kitchens  and  adjoining  rooms  must  be  kept  clean  at  all  times. 
Such  things  as  empty  boies  and  crates  should  not  be  allowed  to 


96  MANUAL  FOB  ABMY  COOKS. 

iw^citmulate.    They  litter  up  the  storerooms  and  cellars  and  are 
very  unsightly. 

In  cleaning  shelves  which  are  located  in  tiers,  it  is  always  best  to 
commence  with  the  topmost  tier  and  work  down.  Otherwise  the 
fihelves  underneath  will  be  littered  in  cleaning  those  above. 

The  men  should  not  spend  all  their  time  scouring  the  outside  of 
boilers,  pots,  and  pans.  Let  them  spend  some  of  that  energy  on  the 
Inside.  The  parts  of  the  kitchen  utensils  which  come  in  contact 
with  the  food  are  the  most  important  and  should  receive  the  first 
and  greatest  attention.  See  to  it  that  the  inside  of  meat  choppers 
and  faucets  on  boilers  are  thoroughly  cleaned,  that  the  inside  of 
bake  pans,  frying  pans,  boilers,  and  dish  pans  are  well  scoured,  that 
the  tines  of  forks  and  the  junction  of  the  blades  and  handles  of 
inives  and  steels  are  clean — ^then  attack  the  other  parts.  A  kitchen 
may  look  very  well  to  a  superficial  observer  dmd  still  be  extremely 
insanitary. 

Each  dish  placed  upon  the  table  should  be  accompanied  by  a 
knife,  fork,  spoon,  or  ladle  with  which  to  serve  the  food  contained 
therein.  Men  should  not  be  allowed  to  serve  themselves  using  their  i 
individual  knives,  forks,  or  spoons.  Such  a  practice  is  not  only^, 
disgusting  but  is  a  medium  through  which  disease  is  transmitted* 
from  one  person  to  another. 

In  cutting  meat  preparatory  to  serving,  it  should  be  held  by  a 
fork  and  not  the  hand,  and  after  cutting,  it  should  be  transferred 
irom  the  cutting  board  to  the  serving  platters  by  the  use  of  forks, 
skimmers,  or  other  suitable  utensils.  The  meat  should  never  be 
handled  with  the  hands.  Frequently  men  put  their  hands  in  the 
lard  in  remo\dng  it  from  the  tubs.  This  should  not  be  permitted. 
Men  who  do  such  things  are  usually  those  who  do  not  practice 
personal  cleanliness  and  must  be  watched  carefully  in  order  to  pre- 
vent them  from  transmitting  disease  to  others. 

Food  that  is  liable  to  deteriorate  should  not  be  purchased  in  large 
quantities.  In  purchasing  perishable  articles,  such  as  green  onions, 
lettuce,  radishes,  etc.,  a  supply  ior  only  one  meal  should  be  bought. 
Such  vegetables  are  best  when  first  picked. 

Unless  flour,  corn  meal,  and  other  cereals  can  be  kept  in  sealed 
metal  containers,  they  should  be  purchased  in  lota  sufficient  only 
for  three  or  four  days.    The  accumulation  of  a  large  supply  is  apt  to 


MANUAL   FOR  ABMY   COOKS.  97 

result  in  loss  because  of  rats  and  mice.    In  summer  fresh  meat  should 
be  purchased  in  small  quantities. 

The  warm  weather  of  spring  causes  onions  to  sprout,  particularly 
those  that  have  been  stored  for  some  time.  If  not  trimmed,  these 
sprouts  will  sap  the  strength  of  the  onion  and  render  the  vegetable 
useless.  Cutting  the  sprouts  helps  to  preserve  onions.  Furthermore 
the  cut  sprouts  may  advantageously  be  used  in  the  kitchen  in  the 
preparation  of  soups,  stews,  hash,  etc. 

Whenever  celery  is  served  the  tops  should  be  cut  off  and  used  for 
seasoning.  The  cut  tbps  may  be  placed  in  a  paper  bag  and  permitted 
to  dry  out.  When  dry  they  crumble  like  dead  leaves  but  do  not 
lose  their  strength  for  seasoning  purposes. 

Every  effort  should  be  made  to  keep  flies  out  of  the  kitchen, 
dining  room,  and  storerooms.  They  live  and  breed  in  places  of 
filth  where  the  germs  of  many  diseases  are  most  numerous.  They 
light  in  germ-laden  filth,  a  part  of  which  clings  to  their  feet  and 
is  .carried  away  on  them.  The  fly  afterwards  Lights  on  the  food 
and  contaminates  it  with  this  filth  and  disease.  In  this  way  dys- 
entery, diarrhea,  typhoid  fever,  and  other  diseases  are  transmitted. 
Screening  of  doors  and  windows  is  absolutely  necessary'-,  and  it  is 
important  to  keep  the  screens  closed  whenever  it  is  possible  to  do 
80  and  to  keep  the  vicinity  of  the  screen  doors  free  from  anything 
that  attracts  flies.  Flies  avoid  dark  places,  and  for  that  reason  the 
dining  room  and  kitchen  should  be  kept  darkened  whenever  it  is 
convenient.  AVhen  the  police  of  the  dining  room  is  finished,  it 
should  be  darkened. 

All  food  in  the  kitchen  and  pantry  should  be  kept  covered  when- 
ever practicable,  and  all  floors,  tables,  and  table  and  kitchen  ware 
should  be  cleaned  after  being  used  and  should  be  kept  free  at  all 
times  possible  from  anything  that  attracts  flies.  Garbage  stands 
should  be  kept  whitewashed  and  the  .cans  covered.  The  ground 
around  the  kitchen  should  be  always  so  well  policed  that  flies  will 
not  gather  there. 

Properly  constructed  flytraps  are  very  effective  in  keeping  down 
the  flies.  In  camp  they  may  be  destroyed  by  burning  out,  with  a 
torch  after  nightfall,  the  sides  and  roof  of  the' kitchen  tent.  If  the 
kitrhen  is  darkened  by  drawing  all  the  shades  except  one,  which 
is  ko})t  raised  about  a  foot,  the  flies  gather  on  the  lighted  window 


ye  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

sill  and  may  be  easily  killed .  A  poison  that  kills  flies  but  is  harmless 
to  man  is  made  by  placing  in  a  shallow  dish  a  solution  of  2  ounces 
of  water,  a  little  sugar,  and  1  dram  of  bichromate  of  potash. 

It  is  important  to  kill  the  first  flies  of  the  season.  One  fly  in  May 
will  probably  have  a  peck  of  descendants  by  September;  therefore 
he  should  be  destroyed  before  he  can  commence  to  breed. 

Rats,  mice,  and  cockroaches  are  also  carriers  of  difease  and  filth 
and  destroyers  of  property.  Like  flies,  they  travel  in  filth  and  carrv 
it  on  their  feet  to  everything  they  touch.  Unlike  flies,  they  seek 
dark  places  where  germs  are  most  numerous.  A  good  cat  is  the  best 
protection  against  rats  and  mice.  Cockroaches  come  out  after  dark 
and  may  be  killed  with  a  fly  swatter,  and  also  may  be  kept  in  check 
by  means  of  roach  powders  sold  on  the  market. 

Considerable  labor  may  be  saved  by  the  use  of  a  piece  of  canvas 
6  feet  wide  and  from  10  to  14  feet  long.  After  each  meal  has  been 
served  and  the  utensils  emptied,  the  canvas  is  spread  in  front  of 
the  sink  and  all  the  utensils  to  be  washed  are  placed  thereon. 
Each  utensil  after  being  washed  is  returned  to  its  proper  place  and 
the  canvas  taken  up  and  hung  out  in  the  air.  This  not  only  pro- 
tects the  floor  from  sooty  pots  and  boilers  but  also  from  grease  that 
may  fall  from  pans  and  from  the  sink. 

272.  Duties  of  the  cooks. — In  the  absence  of  the  mess  sergeant,  the 
first  cook  assumes  his  duties  and  responsibilities.  Acting  under  the 
direction  of  the  mess  sergeant,  he  is  responsible  for  the  proper  prepa- 
ration of  the  food. 

The  other  cooks  are  under  the  orders  of  the  mess  sergeant  and  the 
first  cook. 

During  the  service  of  the  meals  the  cooks  remain  in  the  kitchen  and 
serve  the  food  to  the  dining-room  orderly  and  cooks'  police,  who  act 
as  waiters. 

The  cooks  take  turns  in  getting  up  to  prepare  breakfast  and  the  one 
who  prepares  it  may  be  excused  from  afternoon  kitchen  duty. 

After  breakfast  the  cook  on  duty  sweeps  out  the  oVen,  cleans  the 
range  and  boilers,  washes  off  the  kitchen  table,  and,  assisted  by  the 
kitchen  police,  scrubs  or  mops  the  kitchen  floor. 

273-  Suggestions  to  cooks. — In  order  to  work  rapidly  and  spare 
himself  unnecessary  movements  the  cook  should  understand  the 
recipe  on  which  he  is  working. ,  It  is  not  necessary  for  him  to  re- 
member all  the  recipes  in  the  book.    After  the  bill  of  fare  is  made 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 
TOWEL  BACK. 


99 


For  drying  clean  dish  towels.    It  is  not  regularly  supplied,  and  if  provided 
must  be  constructed  at  the  expense  of  the  company  fund. 


100  MANUAL   FOE  ARMY    COOKS. 

out  for  the  day  he  will  save  time  and  labor  by  sitting  down,  carefully 
reading  it  over,  and  getting  into  his  head  the  necessary  plan  for  all 
the  details.  There  is  nothing  gained  by  starting  work  without  a 
well-laid  plan. 

The  cook  should  think  of  what  he  is  going  to  do,  remember  how  he 
<iid  it  before,  and  then  try  to  do  it  a  little  better.  He  should  observe 
ho  w  others  do  the  same  thing  and,  if  possible,  try  to  avoid  all  unneces- 
sary movements  in  order  to  accomplish  the  most  with  the  least 
possible  work. 

It  is  necessary  to  have  a  place  for  each  utensil  and  to  keep  it  there. 
Articles  to  be  used,  including  most  of  the  kitchen  utensils  and  the 
food  being  prepared,  should  be  placed  within  easy  reach  of  the  cook 
iirhen  standing  in  front  of  the  kitchen  range.  In  this  way  many 
unnecessary  steps  are  saved. 

When  preparing  cake  much  labor  is  saved  by  collecting  all  the 
necessary  articles  before  beginning  the  mixing.  Place  these  articles 
on  the  table  at  which  the  work  is  to  be  done,  and  before  commencing 
work  regulate  the  fire  in  the  range .  This  is  imperative  for  the  reason 
that  after  getting  the  hands  in  the  batter  there  is  no  time  to  collect 
articles  and  put  coals  on  the  fire.  This  applies  also  to  all  dishes  pre- 
pared in  the  kitchen. 

When  getting  ready  to  baste  meat  the  cook  often  opens  the  oven 
•door  and  pulls  the  pan  out  with  a  jerk,  splashing  some  of  the  gravy  in 
the  oven  and  some  on  the  floor.  The  door  must  then  be  scrubbed ,  and 
the  grease  which  has  fallen  in  the  oven  will  burn  and  permeate  the 
kitchen  with  a  disagreeable  odor  and,  in  addition,  the  pans  put  in  the 
stove  thereafter  will  be  soiled  because  of  the  unclean  condition  of  the 
oven.  More  labor  is  used  in  cleaning  the  pans  soiled  by  an  unclean 
oven  than  is  required  to  keep  the  oven  clean. 

Frequently  a  sooty  boiler  or  pan  is  placed  on  the  kitchen  table  or 
the  draining  board  of  a  sink.  A  spot  is  left  which  must  be  removed 
at  once.  This  may  be  avoided  by  the  use  of  a  board  or  rack  on 
i^hich  sooty  utensils  can  rest.  Such  a  rack  can  easily  be  made 
by  using  five  pine  sticks  |  inch  by  1  inch  by  18  inches.  Place  two 
of  them  parallel  to  each  other  and  about  14  inches  apart.  Across 
these  nail  the  other  three  at  intervals  of  about  6^  inches.  Such  a 
rack  may  be  hung  under  the  drain  board  of  the  sink  when  not 
■wanted  and,  if  needed,  is  immediately  available. 


MANUAL   FOE  ARMY   COOKS,  101 

When  frying  on  the  range,  grease  is  often  spilled  upon  the  wood- 
work around  the  stove  and  on  the  kitchen  floor.  These  grease  spots 
should  be  removed  at  once  by  the  use  of  plenty  of  hot  water  and  soap. 
Not  attending  to  this  immediately  results  in  spreading  grease  over 
the  woodwork  and  more  work  in  the  end . 

Spoons  or  other  utensils  used  for  stirring  food  should  not  be  placed 
on  the  mantel  of  the  range  or  the  kitchen  table.  A  plate  should  be 
placed  on  the  table  or  mantel  for  the  spoon  to  rest  in.  When  a 
spoon  or  fork  is  taken  from  food  on  the  stove  a  cloth  should  be  held 
under  it  to  catch  the  drippings. 

In  cutting  meats  good  results  can  be  obtained  only  by  the  use  of 
sharp  cutting  utensils.  Satisfactory  and  rapid  work  can  not  be 
accomplished  with  dull  knives.  The  thumb  should  be  held  against 
the  back  of  the  knife,  as  this  lessens  the  fatigue  of  the  wrist  and 
enables  one  to  work  more  rapidly  than  if  the  thumb  clasps  the  knife. 
Each  kitchen  should  be  provided  with  a  good  grindstone. 

The  plate  and  knife  of  the  meat  chopper  should  be  kept  closely 
together  by  means  of  the  ring  nut.  If  this  is  not  done,  particles  of 
meat  will  edge  in  between  the  knife  and  plate  and  cause  a  ragged 
tearing  of  the  meat.  Often  men  loosen  the  ring  nut  with  the  idea 
that  the  handle  can  be  more  easily  turned.  Such  is  not  the  case, 
however,  as  the  particles  of  meat  torn  off  clog  the  chopper. 

In  trimming  fat  from  meat  no  lean  meat  should  be  cut  off  with  it. 
While  rendering,  the  lean  meat  yields  nothing  but  water  and  conse- 
quently becomes  a  total  loss.  In  this  regard  it  is  better  to  allow  some 
of  the  fat  to  remain  on  the  meat,  for  during  the  cooking  of  the  meat 
the  drippings  are  caught  in  the  pan  and  enrich  the  gravy  prepared 
with  the  meat,  or  are  skimmed  from  the  stock  in  which  the  meat  is 
boiled. 

Gravy  should  be  prepared  in  the  pan  in  which  the  meat  has  been 
cooked.  Some  of  the  albuminous  substances  escape  from  the  meat 
in  the  process  of  cooking  and  settle  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  These 
idd  a  fluA  or  to  the  gra^•y  that  is  not  obtained  if  the  drippings  are 
Iraincd  into  anotlier  pun  and  thegravy  made  in  the  latter.  To  the 
jarticles  escaping  from  the  meat  should  be  achled  sufficient  beef 
itock  and  flour  to  make  a  gravy  of  the  proper  onsistenf-y.  During 
)rcparation,  the  gravy  should  be  frequently  stirred  with  a  whip,  in 
>rder  to  loosen  the  particles  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan.     Where 


102  MANUAL    FOB  ARMY    COOKS. 

the  meat  cooked  is  very  fat,  excess  drippings  should  be  drained  from 
the  pan  before  the  gravy  is  made. 

If  several  pans  are  used  for  roasting,  after  the  meat  has  been 
removed  the  drippings  should  be  poured  into  one  pan.  Into  the 
emptied  pans  should  be  poured  either  beef  stock  or  hot  water,  which 
when  brought  to  a  boil  and  agitated  with  a  wire  whip  will  loosen  the 
meat  residue  left  on  the  bottom  of  the  pans  during  roasting. 

As  a  general  rule  food  should  be  seasoned  during  the  process  of 
cooking.  Cooks  must  be  careful  in  the  use  of  salt,  especially  in  pre- 
paring hashes,  meat  balls,  and  stews  from  food  that  has  been  left 
over.  The  left-overs  are  from  food  which  has  previously  been  seasoned 
and,  unless  great  care  is  taken,  dishes  subsequently  prepared  from 
them  will  be  too  salty.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  it  is  better 
to  put  in  too  little  salt  than  too  much,  because  more  may  be  added  to 
the  food  in  the  dining  room  according  to  taste. 

Buns  and  rolls  for  supper  are  usually  baked  by  1  p.  m.  They 
are  then  spread  on  tables  to  cool,  a  process  that  ordinarily  does  not 
require  more  than  one  hour.  If  they  are  left  exposed  until  5.30 
or  6  p.  m.,  they  become  hard  and  partly  dried  out.  If,  however, 
after  being  cooled,  they  are  placed  on  their  sides  in  a  tightly  closed 
boiler,  they  will  remain  soft  and  nutty,  not  only  for  supper  but  for 
the  following  breakfast.  Not  more  than  three  tiers  of  buns  or  rolls 
should  be  placed  in  a  boiler. 

The  following  suggestions  regarding  the  cooking  of  vegetables 
will  be  found  useful: 

(a)  Cook  green  vegetables  rapidly  in  boiling  salt  water,  the  time 
allowed  depending  on  the  vegetable  cooked.  All  vegetables  should 
be  carefully  drained  after  boiling. 

(6)  It  is  a  good  rule  to  use  only  enough  water  to  cover  the  vege- 
tables. If  it  evaporates,  add  more  boiling  water.  Sulphuroufi 
vegetables,  however,  should  be  well  immersed  in  water,  otherwise 
they  will  be  tough  and  discolored  and  their  flavor  changed. 

(c)  Vegetables  are  best  when  freshly  gathered.  If  slightly  wilted, 
soak  them  in  cold  water.  Even  when  not  wilted  such  soaking 
improves  them,  as  it  renders  them  more  crisp  and  palatable .  Onions, 
cabbages,  and  cauliflower,  if  soaked  for  one  hour  before  cooking,  are 
less  objectionable  in  odor.  t.  -i  j   • 

(d)  Onions,  cabbages,  and  cauliflower  should  be  boiled  in  ai| 
uncovered  pot  and  the  water  changed  at  least  once  while  cookiiig 
A  pinch  of  soda  may  be  added  to  the  water.  ! 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY    COOKS.  103 

I     (e)  Beans  and  peas  should  be  strung  or  shelled  and  washed  quickly 
If  cold  water  is  allowed  to  stand  on  them  very  long,  it  removes  much 
of  their  nutrtious  quality. 

(/)  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  break  the  skins  of  beets,  as  much 
^of  the  coloring  matter  will  escape  in  cooking. 

(g)  Carrots  should  be  scraped  and  turnips  pared  before  cooking. 
Both  should  be  sliced  thin. 

(h)  After  husking  green  corn  all  the  silk  should  be  removed  from 
the  ears.  Corn  should  not  be  washed.  It  should  be  eaten  the  day 
it  is  pulled. 

.(})  Young  potatoes  should  be  scraped  and  old  ones  peele'd.  If 
boiled  potatoes,  after  draining,  are  allowed  to  remain  on  the  range 
a  few  minutes,  with  the  lid  off  the  boiler,  their  flavor  will  be  much 
improved. 

(;■)  Spinach  should  be  thoroughly  washed  in  several  waters  to 
insure  the  removal  of  the  grit.  After  cooking,  drain  in  a  colander 
and  dress  with  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

(k)  Insects  are  likely  to  gather  in  the  hearts  of  cabbages.  If  the 
heads  are  to  be  cooked  whole,  put  them  in  the  water  head  down  to 
remove  the  insects. 

(l^  Small  parsnips  may  be  cooked  whole;  if  large,  they  should  be 
cut  lengthwise.  To  keep  the  flesh  from  darkening,  remove  al! 
specks  and  trim  off  the  fine  roots. 

Personal  cleanliness  of  cooks^  is  of  the  greatest  importance.  A 
bath  should  be  taken  daily,  especially  in  the  tropics.  The  follow- 
ing system  has  been  found  satisfactory:  After  breakfast,  work  is 
begun  on  that  part  of  the  dinner  which  demands  inmiediate  atten- 
tion, or  which  litters  up  the  kitchen  in  the  course  of  preparation; 
iand  as  soon  as  the  dinner  is  ready  to  put  on — about  8  or  8.30  a.  m. — 
I  the  first  cook  takes  a  bath  and  changes  his  clothes.  His  underwear — 
^especially  in  the  tropics — should  be  changed  at  this  time.  As  soon 
j^as  the  first  cook  has  returned — about  8.30  or  9  a.  m. — ^the  second  cook 
['goes  for  his  bath  and  returns  half  an  hour  later. 

274.  Cooks'  clothing. — Each  cook  should  be  provided  with  the 
following  clothing : 

Four  white  coats. 
Six  pairs  white  trousers. 
Four  white  skull  caps. 
Twelve  white  aprons. 


104  MANUAL    FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 

TVhen  serving  in  the  tropica  or  when  the  climate  is  such  that  the 
coat  is  not  worn,  cooks  should  be  required  to  appear  at  all  times 
in  white  undershirts.  They  should  not  be  allowed  to  enter  the 
dining  room  at  meal  time  without  wearing  a  white  coat. 

275.  Duties  of  the  dining-room  orderly. — He  should  be  detailed 
monthly.  He  is  under  the  orders  of  the  mess  sergeant,  and  is  held 
responsible  for  the  cleanliness  of  the  dining  room  and  pantry  and 
for  the  dishes  and  utensils  used  therein. 

Upon  assuming  charge,  the  mess  sergeant  will  verify  with  him  all 
the  dishes  and  other  equipment  for  which  he  will  be  held  responsible. 
A  strict  account  is  kept  by  him  in  a  book  provided  for  the  purpose  of 
all  the  breakage  that  occurs  and  he  reports  to  the  mess  sergeant  the 
names  of  the  men  responsible  for  the  breakage.  Upon  being  re- 
lieved, all  breakage  unaccounted  foi;  is  charged  a^inst  him. 

He  reports  at  the  dining  room  not  later  than  10  minutes  before 
mess  call.  He  then  cuts  the  bread  into  thin  slices  and  piles  it  neatly 
upon  plates,  one  of  which  is  provided  for  each  table.  During  the 
service  of  the  meal  he  remains  in  the  bread  room,  cuts  the  bread,  and 
gives  it  to  the  waiters  as  they  call  for  it.  Toward  the  end  of  the  meal 
he  should  be  careful  not  to  issue  more  than  he  thinks  will  be  used. 
After  each  meal  he  gathers  up  the  food  left  on  the  platters  and  returns 
it  to  the  kitchen  for  future  use. 

Slices  of  bread  not  consumed  are  piled  as  closely  as  possible  to 
prevent  the  exposure  of  the  crumb  to  the  air  and  consequent  drying 
out.  They  are  placed  in  the  bread  box  and  served  first  at  the  next 
meal.  Crumbs  of  bread  accumulating  in  the  pantry  and  bread  box 
are  saved  and  disposed  of  by  the  mess  sergeant. 

He  takes  charge  of  all  work  in  the  dining  room  and,  assisted  by  the 
cooks'  police,  clears  the  tables  after  each  meal.  He  then  brushes  off 
the  tables,  scrubs  them  with  hot  water  and  soap,  rinses  them  with 
clean  water,  and  dries  them.  He  then  cleans  the  saltcellars,  pepper- 
boxes, vinegar  cruets,  mustard  pots,  and  sugar  bowls  and  fills  them 
for  the  next  meal. 

After  breakfast  he  places  the  stools  on  the  tables  with  legs  up, 
sweeps  and  mops  or  scrubs  the  dining-room  floor,  using  but  little 
water,  and  carefully  dries  it.  After  dinner  and  supper  he  sweeps  the 
dining  room.  As  soon  as  the  floor  is  dry  he  sets  the  tables  and  aligns 
the  stools  in  their  proper  places,  being  careful  to  make  the  tables 
present  as  clean  ana  neat  an  appearance  as  possible. 


MANUAL    FOB   ARMY    GOOKS.  105 

*  He  dusts  off  the  woodwork  and  radiators  each  morning,  and  if 
I  necessary  uses  soap  and  water  to  remove  any  dirt  that  has  accu- 
l  mulated. 

[i  He  keeps  the  pantry  neat  and  clean  and  all  surplus  dishes  neatly 
r   arranged  upon  the  shelves. 

s       He  is  responsible  for  the  cleanliness  of  the  dishes  and  silverware, 

-   and  sees  that  plenty  of  boiling  water,  heated  on  the  top  of  the  range, 

is  provided  for  rinsing  them.    Water  from  the  reservoir  is  not  hot 

enough  for  rinsing  dishes. 

y       Each  Friday  he  gives  the  pantry  and  dining  room  a  thorough 

f  cleaning,  washing  the  stools,  windows,  bread  boxes,  shelves,  and 

;    all  surplus  dishes  and  tableware.     After  scrubbing,  the  bread  box 

should  be  dried  and  sunned  for  an  hour  or  more. 

If  sirup  is  to  be  served  for  breakfast,  he  sees  that  the  pitchers  are 
filled  on  the  preceding  evening.     If  butter  is  to  be  served,  he  gets  it 
ready  for  the  table,  but  in  warm  weather  he  does  not  take  it  from  the 
' '  ice  box  until  the  meal  is  about  to  be  served. 

■        276.  Duties  of  the  cooks'  police. — Thev  are  under  the  orders  of  the 
"    mess  sergeant  and  the  cOok  in  charge  and  report  to  the  mess  sergeant 
not  later  than  10  minutes  before  mess  call. 

They  serve  all  meals  imder  the  direction  of  the  mess  sergeant  and 
wait  upon  the  tables  at  meal  time. 

One  of  the  cooks'  police  washes  the  kitchen  utensils  and  the  others 
assist  the  dining-room  orderly  in  clearing  the  tables.  The  cooks' 
police  and  dining-room  orderly  then  wash  the  dishes  and  knives, 
forks,  and  spoons,  the  work  being  under  the  charge  of  the  dining-room 
orderly. 

The  knives,  forks,  and  spoons  are  placed  in  a  dish  pan  with  plenty 
of  hot  water  and  left  until  all  the  dishes  have  been  washed.  They 
are  then  washed  clean,  scalded  with  boiling  water  (to  which  a  little 
soap  is  added),  and  carefully  wiped  with  a  dry,  clean  towel. 

Dishes  are  washed  in  the  sink  or  a  dish  pan,  using  plenty  of  soap, 
well  dissolved  and  beaten  into  suds.  In  order  to  dispose  of  the 
cleaner  and  less  greasy  articles  first,  they  are  washed  in  the  following 
order:  Cups,  saucers,  plates,  and  other  dishes.  After  washing,  dishes 
must  be  scalded,  either  by  placing  them  on  edge  on  the  drain  board 
and  pouring  hot  water  over  them,  or,  if  the  drain  board  is  too  small  for 
this,  by  dipping  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.     Good  results  are  obtained 


106  IklANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

only  by  using  plenty  of  soap  in  the  dishwater  and  clean,  hot  rinsing 
water  and  plenty  of  clean,  dry  towels. 

After  washing  the  breakfast  dishes,  all  soiled  dish  towels  are  placed 
in  a  boiler  of  hot,  soapy  water  and  boiled  for  30  minutes.  They 
are  then  washed  (preferably  on  a  washboard),  rinsed,  and  dried. 
After  dinner  and  supper  the  towels  used  in  wiping  the  dishes  are 
washed  out  in  hot  water  and  soap,  rinsed  in  clean  water,  and  dried. 

After  putting  the  dishes  away  the  cooks'  police  will  clean  the  sink 
and  sweep  and  mop  the  floor.  They  then  report  to  the  mess  ser- 
geant for  such  work  as  may  be  assigned  them — peeling  potatoes, 
carrying  coal,  washing  windows,  etc. 

When  the  services  of  the  cooks'  police  can  be  spared  for  this  pur- 
pose, the  mess  sergeant  may  direct  them  to  assist  the  dining-room 
orderly  in  mopping  out  the  dining  room  and  washing  the  tables. 

The  cooks'  police  will  not  absent  themselves  from  the  kitchen 
except  by  authority  of  the  mess  sergeant  or  the  cook  in  charge. 

277.  Care  of  equipment. — Balce  pans  should  never  be  scraped  or 
sdoured,  as  this  removes  the  bronze  or  bluing.  They  should  be 
washed  with  soap  and  water,  wiped  dry,  and  hung  on  the  back  of 
the  range  with  S  hooks. 

Boilers. — Each  time  boilers  are  used,  except  for  boiling  water,  they 
should  be  scoured  out  with  Sapolio  or  wood  ashes,  thoroughly  rinsed 
with  clean  water,  dried,  and  sunned. 

Boilers  for  coffee. — They  should  be  scoiu'ed  with  wood  ashes  or  Sapo- 
lio once  each  day.  Many  cooks  remove  a  portion  only  of  the  conee 
grounds  after  each  cooking,  always  leaving  a  portion  in  the  pot. 
Good  coffee  can  never  be  made  in  this  manner.  All  the  strengtn  is 
not  extracted  at  the  first  cooking,  and  it  is  best  to  allow  the  grains  to 
accumulate  in  the  boiler  for  three  meals  (unless  tea  is  used  for  one 
meal  of  the  day,  in  which  case  the  coffee  should  not  be  carried  over), 
and  then  remove  the  entire  lot.  Although  there  is  some  waste  of 
coffee  by  this  method,  it  is  a  great  deal  better  than  any  other  and 
the  coffee  is  always  good. 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  107 

HEAT   SURFACE    ARMY   RANGE    NO.    5. 

O         O         O        O 

5  4    "  3  1 

o     o     o    o 

5a  4a  3a  2 

The  No.  1  eye  gives  off  the  greatest  radiation  of  heat;  the  No.  2 
next;  Nos.  3  and  3a,  and  4  and  4a,  next;  and  Nos.  5  and  5a  the  least' 
It  is  very  important  that  cooks  understand  the  heat  surface  of  the 
range  they  are  working  over.  Articles  to  be  boiled  should  be  placed 
on  the  No.  1  eye.  Should  it  be  desired  to  have  these  simmer,  the 
boilers  must  be  removed  to  eyes  No.  5  or  5a.  Old  tough  meat, 
which  requires  a  long  slow  process  of  cooking,  can  here  be  sim- 
mered until  cooked,  without  tear  of  burning.  For  a  moderate  heat 
eyes  3,  3a,  4,  and  4a  can  be  used  to  advantage.  Stewing  requires  a 
gentle  heat,  applied  a  long  time.  By  this  process  the  coarsest  kinds 
of  meat  can  be  made  tender  when  allowed  to  simmer  on  the  No.  5 
eye,  with  even  a  moderate  fire  in  the  range. 

Dining-room  floors. — They  should  be  swept  after  each  meal,, 
mopped  out  each  morning,  and  scrubbed  once  or  twice  each  week. 

Dining-room  tables. — They  should  be  scrubbed  after  each  meal 
with  soap  or  Sapolio  and  hot  water.  In  this  way  stains  can  be 
removed  with  less  labor  and  scouring  material  and  the  tables  kept  in 
better  condition  than  if  scrubbed  once  a  day. 

Dishes,  tableware,  etc. — See  duties  of  dining-room  orderly  and  of 
cooks'  police. 

Jars  for  yeast. — As  soon  as  the  jar  becomes  empty  scour  with  sand 
and  hot  water.  Rinse  well  and  half  fill  with  boiling  water.  Cover 
tightly  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  an  hour.  Empty  it  and  it  is  ready 
for  use.  Soap,  lye,  or  Sopolio  should  not  be  used  for  cleaning  the 
jar.  If  portions  of  these  are  left  in  the  jars  they  are  likely  to  injure 
the  yeast. 

Kitchen  floors. — The  flushing  of  floors  is  prohibited  by  Army 
Regulations,  but  they  should  be  thoroughly  scrubbed  each  morning. 
Whenever  a  grease  spot  appears  on  the  floor  it  should  be  scrubbed 
out,  using  the  scrubbing  brush  and  plenty  of  soap  or  lye.    After 


108  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY    COOKS. 

dinner  and  supper  the  floors  are  mopped.     Always  sweep  the  floor 
thoroughly  before  mopping  or  scrubbing.     In  scrubbing  use  one-half 

Eound  of  soap  dissolved  in  from  6  to  10  gallons  of  boiling  water.  In 
irger  kitchens  from  10  to  15  gallons  of  the  soap-and-water  mixture 
may  be  required.  Dip  the  brush  in  the  mixture,  scrub  cjuickly, 
and,  dry  with  a  mop,  which  should  be  constantly  rinsed  in  clean 
water.  WTien  a  patent  wjinger  is  available,  about  three  ounces  of 
lye  should  be  used  with  a  half  pound  of  soap.  The  lye  injures  the 
hands  if  mops  are  used  without  the  wringer. 

Kitchen  tables. — They  should  be  scrubbed  with  soap  and  water 
after  each  meal.  Boiling  linseed  oil  should  be  well  rubbed  into 
them  once  in  each  two  or  three  months. 

Range. — Each  morning  before  cleaning  the  kitchen,  sweep  out 
the  ovens  and  rub  off  the  range  with  a  greasy  cloth.  A  greasy  cloth 
applied  daily  keeps  the  range  in  better  condition  than  stove  polish 
applied  once  a  week.  Once  a  week  the  range  should  be  thoroughly 
cleared  out.  To  do  this,  remove  the  top  and  sweep  off  the  oven, 
protecting  the  casing  plates.  Remove  the  soot  by  a  scraper  tlirough 
the  flue  doors.  The  mantel  should  be  wiped  often  with  a  damp 
cloth  and  when  necessary  washed  with  soap  and  water.  This 
prevents  dishes  from  picking  up  dirt  and  grease  and  thus  soiling  the 
tables. 

Scales  and  weights.— They  should  be  wiped  off  with  a  greasy  cloth 
to  prevent  rusting. 

Small  tinware,  etc. — Tin,  zinc,  and  galvanized  ware  should  be 
cleaned  with  soap,  Sapolio,  or  ashes  and  kept  in  their  places  when 
not  in  use.  Small  tinware  that  is  in  constant  use  should  be  scoured 
at  least  once  a  day,  dried,  and  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

Stools. — They  should  be  wiped  with  a  clean  damp  cloth  after  each 
meal  and  should  be  washed  with  soap  and  water  each  week. 

278.  Serving  the  meal. — A  meal,  however  well  prepared,  must  be 
served  properly  to  give  satisfaction  and  to  prevent  unnecessary 
waste.  This  requires  a  system  by  which  everything  is  brought 
on  the  table  hot  or  cold,  as  intended.  All  of  the  tables  must  be 
served  promptly  and  in  an  orderly  manner.  This  requires  every 
man  of  the  kitchen  detail  to  perform  properly  the  particular  duties 
assigned  to  him. 


ANUAL    FOR   ARMY   COOKS. 


109 


110  MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

Five  minutes  before  mess  call  the  coffee  (or  other  beverage), 
bread,  and  soup  must  be  placed  on  the  mess  tables  (the  soup  in 
1 -gallon  tureens  to  tables  of  10  men)  and  the  salad  and  dessert  on 
the  bread  table. 

The  dinner  is  now  readv,  and  the  mess  sergeant  goes  into  the 
dining  room  to  superintend  the  service.  The  cooks  remain  in  the 
kitchen  and  serve  the  food  to  the  waiters  as  they  come  for  it. 

The  food,  after  being  cooked,  must  be  arranged  on  clean  platters, 
vegetable  dishes,  etc.  The  outside  of  these  dishes  must  be  kept 
clean  and  all  drippings  of  sirup,  gravy,  etc.,  removed  from  them. 

The  table  must  be  set  with  care  and  kept  scrupulously  neat. 
Order  in  the  dining  room  and  conduct  at  the  table  are  influenced 
by  the  care  with  which  arrangements  are  made  for  the  reception  of 
the  men. 

All  the  men  at  each  table  must  finish  their  soup  before  the  re- 
mainder of  the  meal  is  served  at  that  table.  The  mess  sergeant 
not  only  superintends  the  service,  but  personally  assists  and  sees 
that  all  are  served  properly  and  without  delay  or  confusion. 

It  often  happens  that  while  those  at  the  first  tables  served  are 
ready  for  dessert,  those  at  the  other  tables  are  in  the  midst  of  the 
meal,  or  possibly  still  eating  their  soup.  Constant  supervision  is 
therefore  necessary  to  see  that  the  service  is  prompt  and  orderlv. 

As  the  men  finish  at  each  table  it  is  cleared  off,  the  food  left 
being  transferred  to  other  tables  or  returned  to  the  kitchen,  and  the 
dishes  placed  in  the  sink  for  washing. 

When  all  have  finished  their  dinner  the  food  still  remaining  on 
the  serving  trays  is  returned  to  the  kitchen  and  the  bill  of  fare 
is  made  out  for  supper,  care  being  taken  to  use,  if  practicable,  all 
the  food  left  over  from  breakfast  and  dinner.  At  the  same  time 
the  bills  of  fare  are  prepared  for  breakfast  and  dinner  for  the  fol- 
lowing day.  The  waste  collected  from  the  plates  should  not  fill 
more  than  a  quarter  of  an  ordinary  bucket.  The  men  should  be 
given  all  they  will  eat,  but  should  not  be  permitted  to  take  on 
their  plates  more  than  they  are  going  to  eat.  Each  man  may  help 
himself  as  often  as  he  likes,  but  waste  of  food  must  be  met  witn 
prompt  punishment.  After  a  few  punishments  there  will  be  no 
further  trouble.  The  men  will  see  the  benefit  derived  from  careful 
management  and  ecoifomy  and  will  appreciate  the  good  results  they 
themselves  have  helped  to  obtain. 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 
WARMING   DEVICE. 


Ill 


For  keeping  articles  of  food  hot  and  in  shape  to  serve  for  hours;  or  for  slow  cooking 
after  the  food  has  been  brought  to  the  boiling  point.  Lima  beans,  stews,  soups, 
coffee,  sauces,  etc.,  should  be  lilted  from  the  range  when  thev  have  come  to  a  boil 
and  set  in  the  large  pan,  which  should  contain  about  1  inch  of  boiling  water.  Tough 
steaks  and  cooked  meats  may  be  kept  in  boilers  set  in  the  pan  for  hours  to  great 
advantage,  as  the  action  is  practically  the  same  as  that  of  a  flreless  cooker.  The 
warming  device  is  not  supplied  to  troops  and  must  be  purchased  from  the  funds  if 
desired.  The  same  principle  may  be  applied  by  using  a  dish  pan  and  a  jar  or  small 
boiler. 


pf  great  use  in  the  preparation  of  small  doughs  in  cold  weather,  or  in  windy 
Jcitchens.  A  pan  of  steaming  hot  water  may  bo  placed  on  the  bottom  shelf  to  secure 
a  proper  temperature, 

112 


Chapter  VI. 

FIELD   COOKING. 

279.  The  regulations  require  that  on  the  march,  in  concentration 
or  maneuver  camp,  or  in  the  field,  the  savings  privilege  be  suspended 
and  the  troops  subsisted  on  the  ration  in  kind.  It  is  also  provided 
that  the  commanding  officer  will  designate  the  ration  to  be  issued  to 
the  troops,  but  that  it  shall  not  exceed  the  amount  of  any  component 
authorized  in  garrison. 

To  prevent  waste  there  must  be  even  closer  supervision  in  camp 
than  in  garrison,  especially  when  the  individual  mess  kit  is  used. 
rEach  man  is  served  from  the  issuing  table  and  the  general  tendency 
is  to  issue  too  freely,  the  men  taking  away  more  than  they  will  eat. 
The  food  left  on  the  mess  kit  is  wasted.  The  mes^ ;  ?rgeant  should 
closely  supervise  this  issue  and  insist  that  the  cooks  and  the  dining- 
|oom  orderly  use  care  and  judgment  when  servdng.  Through  close 
-observation  the  mess  sergeant  and  the  cooks  may  learn  the  proper 
portions  for  each  individual. 

280.  In  permanent  camp. — The  conveniences  of  a  long-established 
camp  gradually  approach  those  of  garrison,  and  where  careful  super- 
vision is  exercised,  troops  fare  well.  The  savings  privilege  is  often 
panted  by  special  authorty  of  the  War  Department  to  troops  serving 
m  permanent  camp.  Fresh  beef  may  be  supplied  regularly  and  the 
bills  of  fare  are  much  the  same  as  in  garrison.  The  dining-room 
arrangements  are  more  simple  and  the  kitchen  work  is  greatly 
reduced  because  each  man  looks  after  his  own  individual  mess  kit. 

With  the  improvised  bake  ovens  mentioned  herein,  plenty  of 
rolls,  buns,  and  biscuits  can  be  baked. 

Flies  are  a  pest  in  warm  weather  and  in  all  camps  of  the  least 
degree  of  permanence,  the  kitchen  and  dining  room  should  be 
jcreened.  When  this  is  not  feasible,  a  screened  cage  may  be  made 
Ji  which  to  keep  the  food.    Coal  oil  should  be  freely  used  about  the 

113 


114  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 

refuse  cans  to  keep  away  flies  and  destroy  their  larva.    The  field 
expedients  mentioned  later  are  especially  useful  in  permanent  camp. 

281.  In  temporary  camp. — In  a  temporary  camp — of  from  5  to  10 
days — the  cooking  is  very  much  the  same  as  in  permanent  camp. 
Meals  are  served  to  the  men  in  the  same  manner  and  the  same  care 
must  be  exercised  in  the  prevention  of  waste.  In  hot  or  wet  weather 
a  fly  should  be  stretched  over  the  range  and  the  rations  carefully 
protected.  Frequently  the  escort  wagon  in  which  the  rations  are 
carried  may  be  used  for  the  storage  of  mess  supplies,  and  a  tent  fly 
should  then  be  put  up  for  the  protection  of  the  cooks  and  food  before 
issue.  When  possible  a  wall  tent  and  fly  should  be  used  in  place  of 
the  arrangement  just  indicated. 

Though  not  absolutely  necessary  where  the  range  is  supplied,  an 
excavation  should  be  made  in  windy  weather  for  the  protection  of 
the  fire  when  an  open  grate  is  used.  A  pit  1  foot  deep,  with  the 
additional  protection  afforded  by  the  earth  thrown  upon  the  sides, 
will  be  ample. 

282.  On  the  march. — The  savings  privilege  is  suspended  and  the 
ration  is  designated  by  the  commanding  officer.  The  regulations 
require  the  issues  to  be  made  daily.  The  table  given  in  paragraph 
197,  showing  the  quantities  of  the  component  and  suostitutive 
articles  allowed  from  1  to  1,000  rations,  will  prove  invaluable. 

The  quartermaster  of  the  troops  should,  if  practicable,  arrange  in/ 
advance  for  the  supply  of  fresh  meat  and  bread  along  the  route. 
If  it  can  not  be  done,  such  quantity  of  fresh  meat,  dependent  upon,; 
the  weather,  as  can  be  carried  without  danger  of  spoiling,  should, 
be  taken  along.  ; 

Several  days'  supply  of  fresh  bread  may  be  carried  under  favorably , 
conditions.  A  fiela  bakery  unit  and  personnel  may  be  attached  tOj 
a  command  the  size  of  a  regiment. 

The  above  measures  insure  the  two  most  important  components 
of  the  ration  for  a  few  days,  but  bacon,  canned  meats,  hard  bread, 
and  dried  vegetables  must  be  used  on  the  march  almost  to  the  exclu- ,  I 
sion  of  these  more  bulky  components.     Dried  vegetables  and  canned  J 
goods  are  convenient  on  account  of  their  small  bulk  and  the  ease  jj 
with  which  they  can  be  transported.  J 

There  is  little  time  in  the  morning  to  prepare  breakfast  and  no  r 
attempt  should  be  made   to  have  a  great  variety.    A  few  com-  " 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  115 

ponents,  good  and  substantial,  including  plenty  of  coffee,  are  about 
ia  much  as  can  be  provided.  Upon  arrival  in  camp  it  is  necessary 
to  get  a  quick  meal,  as  the  men  are  usually  tired  and  hungry.  The 
Idea  is  to  have  something  prepared  quickly  as  a  lunch.  A  fire 
should  be  started  at  once  to  neat  water  for  coffee,  which,  with  some 
form  of  canned  meat  and  bread,  is  sufficient.  Then,  while  the  com- 
pany is  making  camp  the  cooks  have  ample  time  to  prepare  the 
Daain  meal  of  the  day,  which  is  usually  served  in  the  late  afternoon. 
The  following  bill  of  fare  is  suggested  as  an  example  of  what 
might  be  prepared  for  one  day  on  the  march: 

BREAKFAST. 

Fried  bacon  or  beefsteak,  boiled  potatoes,  bread,  and  coffee. 

LUNCH  OS  ARRIVAL  IX  CAMP. 

Canned  corned  beef  or  fried  bacon  or  canned  salmon,  cold  canned  tomatoes,  hard 
X  fresh  bread,  and  coffee. 

DINNER. 

Soup,  boiled  or  roast  beef,  or  other  boiled  or  roasted  meat,  mashed  potatoes,  peas, 
X)m  or  succotash,  bread,  and  coffee. 

The  improvised  fireless  cooker  described  in  this  chapter  has  been, 
ised  to  advantage  on  the  march. 

283.  In   campaign. — Troops   subsist  on  the  field   ration.     This 

ation  is  prescribed  in  orders  by  the  commander  of  the  field  forces, 

nd  consists  of  the  reserve  ration  in  whole  or  in  part  supplemented 

•y  articles  of  food  procured  locally  or  brought  from  the  rear.     It  is 

ontemplated  that  sufficient  articles  of  food  will  be  added  to  make 

his  reserve  ration  equal  the  garrison  ration,  when  practicable. 

The  arrangements  for  messing  are  dependent  upon  conditions  and ' 

ibject  to  many  changes.    These  may  approximate  the  arrange- 

lents  in  permanent  camp  or  on  the  march  where  the  company 

lesses  as  a  unit  or  the  men  may  be  required  to  cook  individually, 

when  on  patrol  or  in  the  presence  of  the  enemy.     It  is  best  as  a 

easure  of  economv  and  health  to  prepare  the  food  for  the  organiza- 

on  as  a  whole  rather  than  to  issue  it  out  to  individuals  or  groups. 

xperience  proves  that  the  organization  fares  best  when  all  members 

e  present  and  the  ration  is  handled  by  experienced  men.    This 


116  MANUAL  FOE  ARMY   COOKS. 

applies  to  the  present  field  ration  more  than  to  any  previously 
authorized. 

The  bills  of  fare  will  be  simple  and  the  mess  sergeant  and  cooks  are 
compelled  to  use  their  utmost  ingenuity  to  provide  a  variety.  It  is 
■considered  impracticable  to  suggest  a  bill  of  fare  for  the  field, 
because  the  ration  varies  at  different  times  from  the  reserve  to  the 
iull  garrison  ration. 

FIELD  RANGES. 

284.  The  Army  field  range  No.  1,  complete,  as  described  herein 
-weighs  approximately  264  pounds  with  utensils,  and  with  the  addi- 
tion of  the  Alamo  attachment  is  designed  to  cook  for  150  men.  It 
consists  essentially  of  two  parts,  viz:  the  oven  No.  41  and  the  boiling 
plate.  The  boiling  plate  nas  three  sections,  No.  42  and  two  other 
parts,  forming  the  Alamo  attachment  No.  42A  and  42B. 

To  pack  the  utensils  and  range  for  transportation,  place  the  bake 
pan  No.  52  on  the  ground.  Set  boiler  No.  50  inside  of  bake  pan  No. 
52;  boiler  No.  51  inside  of  boiler  No.  50.  Place  tent  guards ii)side  of 
boiler  No.  51  on  bottom.  Telescope  the  4  joints  of  pipe.  Inside  of 
the  pipe  place  2  forks,  3  knives,  1  sharpener,  1  cleaver,  and  2 
folding  lanterns.  Place  joints  of  pipe  containing  utensils  inside  of 
boiler  No.  51.  Place  meat  chopper  in  boiler  No.  51  alongside  of 
joints  of  pipe.  Place  2  basting  spoons,  1  meat  saw,  and  1  skimmer  in 
boiler  No.  51  on  top  of  pipe.  Cover  with  lid  No.  51,  then  No.  50. 
Place  bake  pan  No.  52  upside  down  over  lid  No.  50.  Care  should  be 
taken  that  oake-pan  handles  are  well  down  to  sides  of  the  pan 
Nest  4  boilers  Nos.  48,  49,  53,  and  54,  No.  48  outside.  Place  stove^ 
pipe  elbow  in  No.  54.  Place  dippers  alongside  of  elbow.  Place 
covers  Nos.  54, 53, 49,  and  48  on  boilers  in  order  named.  Place  nested 
oilers  Nos.  48,  49,  53,  and  54  in  rear  end  of  oven.  Place  bake  pans 
h^d  nested  boilers  in  front  end  of  oven.  Close  the  oven  door  and 
lock  with  damper  lock.  Place  42A  on  left  front  corner  of  oven  Nos.  41 
and  42B  on  right  front  comer,  inserting  bar  in  crimp.  This  bar  now 
rests  against  the  pipe  collar  and  prevents  sliding.  Place  boiling  plate 
No.  42  on  top  of  range,  eye  fitting  over  stovepipe  flange  and  engaging 
under  the  flat  hook.  Make  secure  by  fastening  hook  on  front  of 
boiling  plate  to  the  lug  on  back  of  range.  The  range  is  now  secure  for 
transportation. 


i 


I 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  117 

285.  Installing  the  range. — (See  par.  295.)  On  the  march  the  range 
is  ordinarily  set  up  by  simply  leveling  the  ground  selected  and 
placing  the  oven  No.  41  and  boiling  plate  No.  42  side  by  side,  so  that 
the  oven  door  and  fire-box  door  will  be  at  the  same  end .  Draw  in  42A 
and  42B  and  secure  bar-lock.  Insert  42  A  into  42  and  rest  42B  snugly 
on  the  angle  iron  on  the  rear  of  the  range.  The  oven  should  not  be 
banked,  as  this  would  cause  the  sheet  iron  along  the  sides  to  warp  and 
finally  bum  through.  Sufficient  earth,  however,  should  be  tamped 
alongthesidesand  closed  end  to  prevent  the  passage  of  gases  beneath. 
This  earth  should  not  extend  above  the  straps  along  the  sides  and 
under  the  oven  door. 

When  used  for  one  day  only  it  will  be  unnecessary  to  dig  a  trench, 
but  if  a  few  shovelfuls  of  earth  are  removed  from  the  place  to  be  covered 
by  the  boiling  plate  it  will  facilitate  firing.  The  best  results  are  ob- 
tained by  using  short  wood — keeping  the  fire  well  toward  the  firing 
end  of  the  boiling  plate — or,  if  using  long  sticks  and  branches, 
pushing  them  under  the  boiling  plate  as  they  are  consumed. 

286.  Trenching. — If  the  range  is  to  remain  in  place  for  several  days, 
prepare  trench  as  shown  in  par.  295. 

287.  When  the  range  is  set  up  on  different  ground  daily  no  diffi- 
culty will  be  experienced  in  obtaining  the  proper  temperature  in 
the  oven,  both  for  top  and  bottom  heat.  Whenever  it  remains  for 
a  longer  time  than  one  day  in  the  same  spot,  the  ground  will  become 
dried  out  and  hot,  and  it  may  be  necessary  to  elevate  the  bake  pans 
Slightly  above  the  floor  of  the  oven,  thereby  leaving  an  air  space 
under  the  pans.  This  can  be  done  by  the  use  of  angle  irons  or  other 
means.  Never  use  earth  or  sand  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  chamber, 
for  by  so  doing  a  hole  will  soon  be  burned  in  the  bottom  plate. 

I    To  install  the  range  on  a  railroad  car  or  on  a  wooden  floor,  see  para- 
graph 816. 

288.  Brick  fire  box. — The  trench  may  be  eliminated  by  installing 
;he  range  on  a  brick  wall  about  8  inches  thick  and  3  bricks  high. 
5et  up  the  range  temporarily  and  mark  on  the  ground  the  outline 
)f  the  oven.  Alamo  attachment,  and  boiling  plate.  Build  the  wall 
)n  the  outline  and  on  the  line  between  the  oven  and  boiling  plate, 
he  wall  extending  about  4  inches  on  each  side  of  the  outime,  so  that 
he  base  of  the  range  will  rest  on  the  center  of  the  wall.  Then  set 
^p  the  range  on  the  wall  and  fill  up  with  earth  or  brick  the  space 


118  MANUAL   FOE   ARMY    COOKS. 

under  the  oven,  except  about  6  inches  at  the  rear  end.    Bank  the 
outside  of  the' wall  with  earth. 

In  a  permanent  camp  (see  par,  29Q)  it  is  frequently  necessary  to 
evaporate  waste  under  the  range  and  to  consume  the  garbage  by  the 
same  fire.  In  this  case  dig  a  pit  about  4  feet  long,  3i  feet  wide,  and 
2  feet  deep,  to  give  a  reservoir  for  waste  water.  Fill  the  pit  with 
cobblestones,  leaving  a  fire  box  and  a  gas  chamber  under  boiling 
plate  and  Alamo  attachment  as  suggested  for  temporary  installation. 
Place  a  length  of  stovepipe  or  any  kind  of  chute  at  a  convenient  place 
anywhere  along  the  side  of  the  oven,  arranging  the  rocks  on  which  it 
rests  so  that  there  will  be  &  free  passage  for  the  water.  Pour  in  the 
waste  water  as  it  accumulates,  retaining  all  solid  matter  with  a  wire 
screen.  The  solid  matter  is  burned  in  the  trench  under  the  boiling 
plate,  a  little  at  a  time,  after  the  meal  has  been  prepared. 

289.  Reassembling  for  transportation. — WTien  reassembling  for 
transportation,  draw  boiling  plate  No.  42  forward.  Unfasten  bar 
lock,  pull  apart,  and  removQ  42A  and  42B  and  proceed  as  indicated 
above. 

290.  Remarks  on  handling  the  range. — If  properly  installed,  the 
oven  will  not  be  too  hot  on  the  bottom  for  ordinary  baking,  owing  to 
the  fact  that  the  fire  does  not  strike  the  range  proper.  A  tin  will  be 
found  inside  the  baking  chamber,  which  may  be  used  if  for  any 
reason  the  bottom  of  the  oven  is  too  hot.  Should  the  bottom  of  the 
oven  be  too  cold  for  efficient  baking  the  tin  should  be  removed. 
Articles  brought  to  a  boil  on  the  boiling  plate  will  continue  to  simmer 
if  set  on  top  of  the  oven  or  if  placed  alongside  the  oven .  In  this  man- 
ner a  dinner  has  been  prepared  for  an  entire  battalion  by  adding  the 
necessary  utensils.  A  little  care  and  judgment  are  necessary  to 
secure  satisfactory  results. 

Coal  should  never  be  used  when  wood  is  obtainable.  If  possible, 
even  when  coal  is  used,  part  of  the  fuel  should  be  wood,  for  the  use 
of  coal  alone  will  quickly  destroy  the  range. 

In  permanent  camp  the  space  above  and  on  the  sides  of  the  oven 
and  the  stovepipe  should  be  cleaned  at  least  once  a  week.  This  also 
applies  to  the  boiling  plates.  The  range,  boiling  plates,  and  pipes 
should  be  coated  with  a  mixture  of  sugar  and  grease.  This  preser- 
vative preventa  rust  and  gives  a  neat  polished  appearance  to  the 
range. 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  119 

291.  Army  field  range  No.  2. — The  Army  field  ran^e  No.  2,  com- 
plete, weighs  about  1.50  pounds  with  utensils  and  is  designed  to 
cook  for  55  men.  This  range  is  without  the  Alamo  attachment.  It 
consists  essentially  of  two  parts — the  oven,  No.  61,  and  boiling  plate, 
No.  62.  For  transportation  the  boiling  plate  is  placed  on  top  of  the 
oven  and  the  utensils  (with  flue)  packed  within  the  oven  chamber. 
'  292.  This  range  is  installed  in  accordance  with  the  principles 
explained  for  army  field  ran^e  No.  1.  It  has  no  Alamo  attkchment 
and  the  boiUng  plate  is  attached,  end  to  end,  to  the  rear  of  the  oven, 
the  projecting  collar  of  the  boiling  plate  being  slipped  into  the 
space  cut  from  the  rear  end  of  the  oven  for  that  purpose.  (See  Par. 
294).  The  trench  is  dug  under  the  boiling  plate  and  extends  about 
three  inches  under  the  rear  end  of  the  oven. 

293.  To  pack  utensils  and  range  for  transportation  place  bake  pan 
No.  52  on  the  ground.  Set  boiler  No.  50  inside  of  bake  pan  No.  62; 
boiler  No.  51  inside  of  boiler  No,  50.  Place  tent  guards  on  bottom 
of  boiler  No.  51.  Telescope  the  4  joints  of  stovepipe.  Inside  of 
pipe  place  2  forks,  2  knives,  1  sharpener,  2  spoons,  1  lantern  (folding), 
and  1  skimmer.  Place  the  joints  of  pipe  containing  utensils  in 
boiler  No.  51.  Place  dipper  and  elbow  alongside  the  "pipe.  Place 
meat  saw  in  bake  pan  No.  52  alongside  the  boilers.  Cover  boilers 
with  lids  No.  51  and  No.  50.  Place  bake  pan  No.  52  up.^ide  down 
Dver  lid  No.  50.  Place  pans  in  the  range  oven.  Place  the  boihng 
alate  at  the  door  end  of  the  oven.  Engage  the  flanges  on  the  inner 
tide  of  boiling  plate  with  the  lugs  on  the  door  end  of  the  oven, 
^asten  the  hook  on  boiling  piate  (firing  end)  to  lug  above  the  handle 
m  the  closed  end  of  oven.  The  range  is  now  secure  for  transporta- 
ion. 


120  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 

294.  ARMY  FIELD  RANGE,  WITHOUT  ALAMO  ATTACHMENT. 


I  w  nT-^^-^jj^ 


Upper  figure  shows  Army 

^"       field  range  No.  h  with  Alamo 

attachment^  assembled  for  use. 

In  the  lower  figure,  the  solid  lines 

show  trenching  for  same  and  the  dotted 

lines  the  trace  of  the  base  of  the  oven,  boU- 

ing  plate,  and  Alamo  attachment. 

121 


122 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 


296. 


Army  field  range  No.  1  with  Alamo  attachment,  trench,  and  cobblestone  pit  (2 
feet  deep)  for  incineration  of  waste. 


EQUIPMENT  A. 

297.  It  consists  of  the  following  utensils: 
1  cake  turner. 
1  can,  water,  G.  I.,  large. 
1  can,  water,  G.  I.,  small. 
1  cleaver,  meat. 
1  dipper,  large. 
1  fork  J  meat,  large. 
1  fire-iron  set. 

3  kettles  and  covers,  camp. 
1  knife,  meat,  large. 

4  pans,  bake. 

This  is  the  allowance  under  existing  orders  of  cooking  utensils 
where  transportation  is  limited. 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  .     125 


FIRELE8S   COOKERS. 


298.  A  flreless  cooker  is  an  air-tight  receptacle  for  the  slow  prepara* 
tion  of  partly  cooked  food  by  heat  stored  up  in  the  food,  or  mechan- 
ically introduced  as  when  soapstones  are  used.  It  is  also  used  to 
preserve  the  temperature  of  food  cooked  or  uncooked. 

It  is  generally  a  box-like  arrangement  lined  with  a  nonconducting 
material  within  which  is  the  well  or  reservoir,  into  which  the  vessel 
containing  the  hot  food  is  placed. 

Many  different  makes  of  fireless  cookers  are  found  on  the  market, 
and  various  material  such  as  asbestos,  paper  felt,  hay,  indurated 
fiber,  etc.,  are  used  as  nonconductors.  In  some  t}T)es  heated  soap- 
stones  are  placed  in  the  well  to  keep  the  food  at  a  cooking  tempera- 
ture for  long  periods,  or  to  supply  the  heat  ordinarily  given  to  the 
food  before  it  is  placed  in  the  cooker. 

To  cook  food  requires  the  application  of  a  certain  amount  of  heat 
at  a  temperature  between  130°  and  385°  F.  (in  the  case  of  fireless 
cookers,  oetween  130°  and  212°)  though  the  lower  the  temperature 
the  longer  the  process  will  be. 

The  object  of  a  fireless  cooker  is  simply  to  use  the  heat  above  130° 
F.  which  has  been  stored  in  the  food  to  finish  cooking  it. 

The  advantages  are:  The  food  may  be  served  warm  on  the  march 
or  upon  arrival  m  camp;  it  saves  fuel;  being  a  slow  process  it  renders 
such  food  as  tough  meats  tender  and  palatable;  and  the  food,  having 
been  placed  in  the  cooker,  requires  no  further  attention. 

To  prepare  food  for  cooking  in  the  fireless  cooker  the  general  idea 
is  to  place  food  on  the  range  and  when  sufficient  heat  has  been  stored 
up  in  it,  to  transfer  the  food  directly  to  the  cooker  where  cooking 
will  continue  as  long  as  the  temperature  remains  above  130°  F. 


124 


MANUAL   FOR  ABMY   COOKS. 


By  experience  the  following  times  of  cooking  have  been  ascer- 
tained : 


Articles  of  food. 


Number 

of  min- 
utes at 
boiling 
point 
before 
putting 

Number 
of  hours 
in  the 
fireless 
cooker. 

in  cooker. 

45 

6 

45 

3 

45 

3 

20 

3 

45 

3 

20 

3 

20 

3 

60 

12 

45 

3 

90 

6 

30 

2 

20 

3 

20 

3 

45 

3 

20 

3 

45 

6 

45 

4 

30 

3 

15 

2 

45 

4 

20 

4 

30 

3 

60 

4 

15 

2 

20 

2 

45 

3 

20 

3 

20 

1 

60 

3 

Beef  d  la  Creole 

Beef  A  la  mode 

Beef,  corned 

Beef,  curry  of 

Beef,  roast,  soft 

Beef,  Spanish 

Beef,  Turkish 

Beans,  Boston  baked 

Beans,  lima 

Beans,  kidney 

Beans,  string,  green 

Cabbage,  with  bacon 

Cabbage,  Bavarian 

Cabbage,  with  fresh  pork 

Carrots,  boiled 

Chicken  4  la  Creole 

Chicken,  curry  of 

Chili  con  came 

Codfish,  creamed 

Ham,  boiled 

Mutton,  stew 

Parsnips 

Pork,  fresh  boiled 

Potatoes,  Irish 

Potatoes,  sweet 

Sauerkraut,  with  bacon  or  salt  pork . 

Succotash 

Tomatoes  stewed 

Turnips,  boiled 


Note. — Meats  should  not  be  cooked  in  pieces  weighing  more  than  from  3  to  5 
pounds. 


To  get  the  best  results,  most  articles  of  food  to  be  cooked  should  be 
covered  with  liquid  when  put  in  the  cooker.     Such  vegetables  as 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 


125 


potatoes,  parsnips,  etc.,  should  be  about  half  cooked,  the  water 
drained  off,  and  then  put  into  the  cooker.     The  vegetable  is  then 
allowed  to  finish  cooking  with  its  retained  heat,  remaining  in  the 
cooker  for  a  few  hours  only. 
A  considerable  amount  of  acid  is  found  in  tomatoes,  and  dishes 

'Containing  them  should  not  be  permitted  to  remain  in  the  fireless 
cooker  or  other  tin  receptacles  for  longer  than  four  or  five  hours. 
Coffee  should  be  first  prepared  by  boiling  in  a  sack  in  the  regular 

J  boiler  so  that  the  grounds  need  not  be  placed  in  the  cooker. 


299. 


IMPROVISED    FIRELESS    COOKER. 


Most  satisfactory  fireless  cooker  yet  devised,  which  is  a  milic  can  placed  within  a 
water  or  ash  can  with  hay  or  straw  packed  in  between.  In  camp  the  large  cans  are 
used  for  w">ter  and  the  small  ones  for  cookiog,  so  that  no  unnecessary  impedimenta 
is  carried. 


126  MANUAL  FOE  ARMY   COOKS. 

The  type  of  fireless  cooker  shown  has  proven  as  efficient  as  any  on 
the  market  and  more  convenient  for  field  service.  Those  on  the 
market  are  too  heavy  and  bulky  for  field  use  and  are  not  popular  in 
garrison. 

Used  as  an  improvised  cooker,  two  of  the  water  cans  and  two 
10-gallon  milk  cans  will  provide  one  meal  of  coffee  and  hot  beans  or 
beef  stew  for  80  men.  Eight  of  these  cans  will  supply  lunch  for 
about  300  men  and,  when  loaded  on  an  escort  wagon,  leave  sufficient 
room  for  rations  and  equipage. 

The  food  can  be  prepared  at  the  same  time  the  cooks  are  preparing 
breakfast  and  placed  in  the  cooker,  which  is  loaded  on  the  wagons, 
so  as  to  be  readily  accessible  when  needed. 

300.  ROLLING    KITCHENS. 

There  are  several  types  on  the  market.  Most  of  them  consist  of 
ranges  or  boilers  mounted  on  running  gears  of  carts  or  wagons,  so 
that  the  cooking  may  be  done  while  the  kitchen  is  in  motion.  Many 
are  also  provided  with  separate  wells  or  compartments  constructed 
on  the  principle  of  the  fireless  cooker,  in  which  the  food,  already 
cooked,  mav  be  kept  warm. 

These  rolling  kitchens  or  soup  wagons  are  a  great  convenience  to 
troops  on  the  march  or  on  the  firing  line,  but  considering  the  amount 
of  transportation  and  road  space  they  require,  it  is  doubtful  if  they 
should  be  used  except  under  special  conditions,  as  where  troops  are 
occupying  a  more  or  less  stationary  firing  line. 

301.  INDIVIDUAL   COOKING. 

Weights  and  measures. — It  will  oft«n  be  necessary  to  issue 
rations  to  men  individually  where  there  are  no  scales  available. 
The  ordnance  cup  will  be  found  very  convenient  for  determining 
weights  under  these  conditions.  The  new  regulation  cup  holds  ij 
pints;  the  old  cup  holds  seven-eighths  of  a  quart. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMi:    COOKS, 


127 


One  cup  level  full  of— 


New  cup. 


Pounds.     Ojinces. 


Old  cup. 


Pounds.     Ounces 


Apples,  evaporated 

Beans,  chili 

Beans,  issue 

Beans,  kidney 

Beans,  Lima 

Bread  crumbs 

Coffee,  R.  &  G 

Coffee,  Java,  ground. . . 
Coffee,  Mocha,  ^ound . 

Corn,  sweet,  (fried 

Com  meal 

Currants 

Eggs,  broken 

Flour 

Hominy 

Milk,  fresh 

Oat  meal 

Peaches,  evaporated. . . 

Peas,  dried 

Pnmes 

Raisins 

Rice 

Salt,  coarse 

Salt,  issue 

Sirup,  cans 

Sugar,  cut-loaf 

Sugar,  granulated 

Tea,  English  breakfast. 

Tea,  Oolong 

Tea,  Young  Hyson 


One  3-gallon  bucket  of  potatoes  weighs  17  pounds,  when  peeled 
they  weigh  about  15  pounds. 

One  3-gallon  bucket  of  onions  weighs  about  14  pounds,  when  peeled, 
they  weigh  about  11  pounds. 

Six  issue  candles  weigh  about  1  i)ound. 

•Ten  lantern  candles  weigh  about  1  pound. 

One  bar  of  issue  soap  weighs  1  pound. 


128 


MANUAL   FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 


302.  Company  commanders,  in  estimating  the  amounts  that  will 
be  required  for  each  meal,  may  assume  that  one  man  will  consume 
for  one  meal  about — 

1  ounce  of  sugar. 

^  ounce  of  coffee,  1  ounce  chocolate  or  cocoa,  or  ^  ounce  of 

tea. 
4  ounces  of  dried  vegetables,  or  8  ounces  of  fresh  vegetables. 
4  ounces  of  flour  or  4  hardtacks. 
4  ounces  of  sliced  bacon  or  6  to  8  ounces  of  fresh  meat. 


^  ounce  of  pepper. 

303.  For  such  individual  cooking  as  may  be  necessary  for  the 
floldier  when  thrown  upon  his  own  resources,  the  following  bills  of 
fare  have  been  prepared.  Wliere  the  tin  cup  and  spoon  are  men- 
tioned, reference  ia  made  to  those  issued  with  the  field  mess  kit. 

The  best  fire  for  cooking  is  a  small  clear  one,  or  a  few  brisk  coals. 

Almost  any  article  of  food  can  be  cooked  in  some  way  in  the  mess 
kit,  though  the  methods  of  cooking  are  few  and  the  quantities  that 
oan  be  cooked  are  small. 


Bills  of  fare. 


Meats. 

Vegetables. 

Bread,  etc. 

Drinks. 

1 

Bacon 

Boiled  rice 

Flapjack 

Flapjack 

Hard  bread . 

Hoecake 

Hard  bread . 
Flapjack.,.. 
Hard  bread. 

Etc    . . . 

Coffee. 

? 

Meat  and  vegetable  stew .. 
Broiled  steak 

Coffee, 

3 

Fried      potatoes      and 

onions. 

Stewed  tomatoes 

Oatmeal 

Baked  potatoes,  rice 

Boiled    potatoes,    cold 

tomatoes. 
Etc    . . . 

Cocoa. 

4 

Bacon     ..               

Coffee. 

5 

Bacon 

Tea. 

6 

Bacon 

Chocolate. 

7 

Fried  steak 

Coffee. 

Etc 

Etc. 

MANUAL  FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 


129 


Bills  of  fare — Continued. 
OR,  WHEN  TIME  IS  MORE  LIMITED. 


Meats. 

Vegetables. 

Bread,  etc. 

Drinks. 

8 

Fried  bacon    

Fried  potatoes 

Hard  bread 

Flapjack 

Hard  bread. 
Hard  bread . 

Hoecake 

Hard  bread . 
Hard  bread. 
Etc 

Coffee 

q 

Fried  bacon 

Coffee. 

10 

Corned  beef  (cold) 

Fried  fish  and  bacon 

Meat  and  vestetable  stew 

Tomato  stew 

Coffee 

11 

Baked  potatoes 

Coffee. 

1? 

Tea 

13 

Broiled  steak. 

Baked  potatoes 

Cocoa 

14 

Boiled  fish 

Etc.. 

Etc 

" 

304. 


SUGGESTIONS   FOR  HANDLING   BIl^L   OF  FARE    NO.    1. 


Take  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  water  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  4 
spoonfuls  of  rice  and  boil  until  tender,  i.  e.  until  it  can  be  mashed 
b^  the  fingers  with  but  little  resistance.  This  requires  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  2  pinches  of  salt,  and  after  stirring,  poiu*  off  the 
water  and  empty  the  rice  out  on  the  lid  of  the  mess  pan. 

Meanwhile,  fry  3  slices  of  bacon  until  slightly  browned  in  the  mess 

{)an  over  a  brisk  fire  or  hot  coals,  and  lay  them  on  top  of  the  rice, 
eaving  sufficient  grease  in  the  pan  in  which  to  fry  the  flapjack. 
Take  6  spoonfuls  of  flour  and  one-third  spoonful  of  baking  powder 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Add  sufiicient  cold  water  to  make  a  batter 
that  will  drip  freely  from  the  spoon.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  2 
pinches  of  sugar  and  pour  the  batter  into  the  mess  pan,  which  should 
contain  the  grease  from  the  fried  bacon.  Place  over  medium  hot 
coals  and  bake  from  5  to  7  minutes;  see  that  it  will  slip  easily  in  the 
pan  and  then,  by  a  ouick  toss,  turn  it  over  and  continue  the  baking 
from  5  to  7  minutes  longer  or  until,  by  examination,  it  is  found  to 
be  done. 

AMiiie  the  batter  is  frying,  wash  out  the  tin  cup;  two-thirds  fill 
with  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  1  medium  heaping  spoonful 
of  coffee  and  stir  well,  and  Ji  desired,  1  spoonful  of  sugar  and  let  boil 
for  about  5  minutes.  Let  simmer  for  about  10  minutes  longer. 
Settle  by  a  dash  of  cold  water  or  let  stand  a  few  minutes. 
A  hot  meal  is  now  ready.    Time  about  40  minutes. 


130 
305. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 


RECIPES. 


Drinks. 

[For  one 

meal  for  one  man.] 

Article  and  amount. 

1 

1 
1 

9 

Remarks. 

< 

-^' 

<- 

Cup. 

Min.  W'nful. 

Coffee,    1   heaping 

i 

Water 

5 

1 

Stir  grains  well  when  adding. 

spoonful. 

boils. 

Let  simmer  ten  minutes 
after  boiling.  Settle  v^ith  a 
dash  of  water  or  let  stand  a 
few  minutes.  Ready  to 
serA-e. 

Cocoa,    1    heaping 

§ 

...do.. 

5 

li 

Stir  when  adding  until  dis- 

spoonful. 

solved.  Readv  to  serve 
when  sufficiently  cooled. 

Chocolate,  1  cubic 

I 

. . .do. . 

5 

li 

Do. 

inch. 

Tea,  h  level  spoon- 

I 

...do.. 

0 

1 

Let  stand  or  draw   8   min- 

ful. 

utes;  if  allowed  to  stand 
longer,  the  tea  becomes 
bitter  unless  separated 
from  the  leaves. 

Note. — Coffee  made  by  above  recipe  is  of  medium  strength  and  the  same  as  when 
using  4  ounces  to  the  gallon  of  water.  It  is  within  the  limit  of  the  ration  if  made  but 
twice  each  day. 

Tea.— A  little  more  than  medium  stren^h,  the  same  as  when  using  |  ounce  to 
the  gallon,  and  within  the  ration  allowance  if  made  three  times  i)er  day. 

Chocolate  and  cocoa.— About  1  ounce  per  man  per  meal.  If  available,  milk 
should  be  used  in  the  place  of  water,  and  should  be  kept  somewhat  below  the  boil- 
ing point.  Mix  a  1-pound  can  of  evai)orated  milk  with  3^  quarts  of  water  to  make 
1  gallon  of  milk  of  the  proper  strength  for  use  in  making  cocoa  or  chocolate 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 


131 


306. 


DRIED   VEGETABLES. 
[For  one  meal  for  one  man.] 


i 

j. 

"3 

^ 

1 

"ft^ 

fi 

Article  and  amount. 

2 

^ 

1 

.51 

•s2 

Remarks. 

< 

1 

1 

fl° 

15 

< 

Cup. 

Hours. 

Rice,     4     heaping 

Water 

^ 

2 

1 

Should    be    boiled    until 

spoonfuls. 

boils. 

grains  (while  still  nicely 
separated)  may  be 
crushed  between  the  fin- 
gers ^vith  but  Uttl  restist- 
ance.  Then  dram  off 
the  water. 

Corn  meal,  Tiominy 

...do... 

h 

2 

All  water  should  now  be 

fine,    oatmeal,    4 
heaping  spoon- 

taken up   by  the  corn 

meal,   hominy,   or   oat- 

fuls. 

meal,  which  forms  a 
thick  paste. 

Dried  sweet  corn,  4 

...do... 

J 

2 

1 

heaping  spoon- 
fuls. 
Lima  6ean5.  4  heap- 

Water 

2  or  3 

1 

■\\Tien    done    the    beans 

ing  spoonfuls. 

is  put 
on. 

should  still  be  whole  but 
soft.  Add  one  small 
slice   of  bacon   one-half 

1 

hour  before  done.    Add 

water  as  required. 

Chili  beans  and  fri- 

...do... 

3  or  4 

1 

Do. 

joles,    4    heaping 

spoonfuls. 

Beans   issue,   dried 

...do... 

3  or  4 

1 

Do. 

green  peas,  hominy 

coarse,  split  peas. 

4  heaping  spoon- 

fuls. 

Note.— By  a  heaping  spoonful  is  meant  here  all  that  can  readily  be  taken  up.  A 
pinch  of  salt  is  the  amount  that  can  readily  be  taken  up  between  the  ends  of  the 
thumb  and  forefinger. 


132  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

307.  MEATS. 

Bacon. — Cut  the  side  of  a  bacon  in  half  lengthwise.  Then  cut 
slices  about  five  to  the  inch,  three  of  which  should  generally  be 
sufficient  for  one  man  for  one  meal.  Place  in  a  mess  pan  with  about 
one-half  inch  of  cold  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  then  pour 
water  off.  Fry  over  a  brisk  fire,  turning  the  bacon  once  and  q[uickly 
browning  it.  Remove  the  bacon  to  lid  of  mess  pan,  leaving  the 
grease  for  frying  potatoes,  onions,  rice,  flapjacks,  etc. 

Fresh,  meat,  fried. — Put  one  or  two  spoonfuls  of  grease  in  mess  pan 
and  let  come  to  a  smoking  temperature,  then  drop  in  the  steak 
and,  if  about  one-half  inch  thick,  let  fry  for  about  one  minute  before 
tiu-ning,  the  time  depending  upon  wdiether  it  shall  be  rare,  medium, 
or  -well  done.  Then  turn  and  fry  briskly  as  before.  Salt  and  pepper 
to  taste. 

Applies  to  beef,  veal,  pork,  mutton,  venison,  etc. 

Fresh  meat,  stewed. — Cut  into  pieces  of  from  one-half  to  one-inch 
cubes.  Fill  cup  about  one-third  full  of  meat  and  cover  with  about 
1  inch  of  water.  Add  such  fibrous  vegetables  as  carrots,  turnips,  or 
cabbage,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  let  boil  or  simmer  about  an  hour. 
Potatoes,  onions,  or  other  tender  vegetables  are  added  when  the 
meat  is  about  half  done.  Amount  of  vegetables  to  be  added  is 
about  the  same  as  meat,  depending  upon  supply  and  taste.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.     This  applies  to  all  fresh  meat  and  fowls. 

Fresh  fish  may  be  handled  as  above,  except  that  it  requires  less 
time  to  cook.  Potatoes,  onions,  and  canned  corn  are  the  vegetables 
generally  used  with  it,  thus  making  a  chowder.  A  slice  of  bacon 
improves  the  flavor. 

Stews  may  be  conveniently  cooked  in  mess  pan  or  tin  cup. 

Fresh  meat,  broiled. — Cut  slices  about  1  inch  thick,  from  half  as 
large  as  the  hand  to  four  times  that  size.  Sharpen  a  stick  or  branch 
about  2  to  4  feet  in  length  and  weave  the  point  of  the  stick  through 
the  steak  several  times  so  that  it  may  be  readily  turned  over  a  few 
brisk  coals  or  a  small  fire .  Allow  to  brown  nicely,  turning  frequently. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Meat  with  considerable  fat  is  preferred, 
though  any  meat  may  be  broiled  in  this  manner. 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  133 

308.  FRESH   VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  fried. — Take  two  medium-sized  potatoes  or  one  large  one 
(about  one-half  pound),  peel  and  cut  into  slices  about  one-fourth 
inch  thick  and  scatter  well  in  the  mess  pan  in  which  the  grease 
remains  after  frying  the  bacon.  Add  sufficient  water  to  half  cover 
the  potatoes,  cover  with  the  lid  to  keep  the  moisture  in,  and  boil 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  cover  and  dry  as 
desired.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Potatoes,  boiled. — Peel  two  medium-sized  potatoes  or  one  large 
one  (about  one-half  pound),  and  cut  into  cubes  of  about  IJ  inches. 
Place  in  mess  pan  about  three-fourths  full  of  water,  cover  with  lid, 
and  let  boil  or  simmer  for  15  or  20  minutes.  They  are  done  when 
easily  penetrated  with  a  sharp  stick.  Pour  off  the  water  and  allow 
to  dry  for  one  or  two  minutes  over  hot  ashes  or  light  coals. 

Potatoes,  baked. — Take  two  medium-sized  potatoes  or  one  large 
one  cut  in  half  (about  one-half  pound).  Lay  in  a  bed  of  light  coals, 
cover  with  same,  and  smother  with  ashes.  Do  not  disturb  for  30  or  40 
minutes,  when  they  should  be  done. 

Onions,  fried. — Same  as  potatoes  fried. 

Canned  tomatoes,  stewed. — Pour  into  the  mess  pan  one  man's 
allowance  of  tomatoes  (about  one-fifth  of  a  2-pound  can),  add  about 
two  large  hardtacks  broken  into  small  pieces,  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  or  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one-fourth  spoon- 
ful of  sugar. 

Or,  having  fried  the  bacon,  pour  the  tomatoes  into  the  mess  pan, 
the  grease  remaining,  and  add,  if  desired,  two  broken  hardtacks. 
Set  over  a  brisk  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 

Or,  heat  the  tomatoes  just  as  they  come  from  the  can,  adding  two 
pinches  of  salt  and  one-half  spoonful  of  sugar  if  desired. 

Or,  in  hot  weather,  eaten  cold  with  hard  bread  they  are  especially 
palatable. 

309.  Hot  breads — Flapjack. — Take  six  spoonfuls  of  flour  and  one- 
third  spoonful  of  baking  powder  and  mix  thoroughly  (or  dry  mix  in 
a  large  pan  before  issue,  at  the  rate  of  25  pounds  of  flour  and  three 
half-pound  cans  of  baking  powder  for  100  men).  Add  sufficient  cold 
water  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drip  freely  from  the  spoon,  adding 
a  pinch  of  salt.     Pour  into  the  mess  pan,  which  should  contain  the 


134  MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

grease  from  fried  bacon,  or  a  spoonful  of  butter  or  fat,  and  place  over 
coals  sufficiently  hot  to  bake  in  from  five  to  seven  minutes.  The 
flapjack  may  then  be  turned  by  a  quick  toss  of  the  pan.  Fry  from 
five  to  seven  minutes  longer  or  until,  by  examination,  it  is  foimd 
to  be  done. 

Hoecake. — It  is  made  exactly  the  same  as  a  flapjack  by  substitut- 
ing corn  meal  for  flour. 

EMERGENCY   RATION. 

310.  Detailed  instructions  as  to  the  manner  of  preparing  the  emer- 
gency ration  are  found  with  each  can.  Even  a  very  limited  amount 
of  bacon  or  hard  bread,  or  both,  added  to  the  emergency  ration  makes 
it  far  more  palatable,  and  extends  the  period  during  which  it  can 
be  consumed  with  relish.  For  this  reason  it  is  a  good  plan  to  hus- 
band the  supply  of  hard  bread  and  bacon  and  use  it  with  the  emer- 
gency ration  when  it  becomes  evident  that  the  latter  must  be 
consumed. 

FIELD   EXPEDIENTS. 

311.  Equipment  A  is  used  when  transportation  is  limited.  With 
this  equipment  only  boiling  and  frying  can  be  done  unless  improvised 
ovens  are  constructed.  In  the  absence  of  the  fire  irons  provided 
with  the  equipment,  narrow  trenches  of  suitable  width  or  trunks  of 
green  trees  or  rocks  may  be  arranged  as  convenient  substitutes. 
When  time  is  available  an  oven  in  a  bank  or  a  mud  field  range  should 
be  constructed.  These  should  be  pro\'ided  with  openings  on  top, 
over  which  boilers  may  be  placed  for  cooking.  With  this  type  of  oven 
the  cooking  may  be  done  on  the  top  and  afterwards  the  coals  with- 
drawn and  baking  done  in  the  chamber,  or  they  may  be  used  for 
baking  and  roasting  only  and  the  boiling  otherwise  provided  for. 
By  the  latter  method  all  portions  of  the  meal  may  be  cooked  at  one 
time.  Another  device  which  may  be  used  is  a  simple  range  which' 
is  made  by  covering  a  suitable  trench  with  a  bake  pan  or  two  for  a 
boiling  surface  and  utilizing  two  or  more  coffee  cans  set  end  on  for  a 
flue.  Beans  may  be  baked  in  dugout  ovens,  clay  ovens,  or  a  ver- 
tical hole  dug  in  the  ground  into  which  a  jar  or  camp  kettle  contain- 
ing them  is  placed  and  packed  over  and  around  with  hot  coals  and 
earth.  (See  Par.  468.)  Water  may  be  kept  cool  without  ice  by 
using  a  canvas  bag,  or  a  can  wrapped  with  wet  burlap  or  grain  sacks. 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 


135 


They  should  be  kept  in  a  draft,  if  possible,  so  as  to  increase  the 
evaporation 

312.  The  following  are  some  of  the  simple  expedients  that  may  be 
used  in  the  field. 

An  ice  box  is  often  a  great  convenience  and  may  be  constructed 
by  simply  setting  a  dry-goods  box  inside  of  a  larger  one,  preparing 


IMPROVISED   ICE    BOX. 


To  provide  a  simple  ice  box  for  the  field,  sink  a  packing  box  of  suitable  size  into 
the  ground  and  prepare  a  close-fitting  cover  in  two  parts,  for  convenience  in  handling. 
It  is  well  to  surround  the  box  with  heavy  paper  or  with  packed  straw  or  grass  to 
prevent  dirt  from  falling  in  through  the  cracks.  To  provide  drainage,  bore  several 
holes  in  the  bottom  of  the  box,  and,  if  practicable,  put  a  quantity  of  stone  or  gravel 
in  the  bottom  of  the  pit  before  installing  the  box.  If  facilities  are  at  hand,  provide 
a  double  box  as  shown.  It  will  be  more  cleanly  and,  on  account  of  the  double  top, 
the  ice  will  last  longer. 

the  necessary  lids,  and  filling  the  space  between  the  two  boxes — i  to 
8  inches — with  sawdust,  gunny  sacks,  leaves,  grass,  hay,  straw, 
etc.  Or  even  better,  a  single  box  may  be  set  in  the  ^ound  and 
packed  around  with  materials  as  noted  above  or  with  solid  earth. 

Improvised  incinerators  are  essential  in  camp.  They  may  be 
made  in  several  forms,  the  simplest  of  which  is  a  pit  about  6  feet  in 
diameter  and  about  3  feet  deep  in  the  center,  sloping  uniformly  to 


136 


MANUAI-    FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 
SWINGING   CAGE. 


Especially  uselul  in  the  Tropics  or  in  camp.  It  should  be  suspended  in  such  a 
manner  that  a  cup  of  oil  placed  as  shown  will  prevent  insects  from  reaching  the  cage. 

Dimensions,  about  3  feet  square  and  3  feet  high. 

It  is  not  regularly  supplied  and  if  provided  must  be  constructed  at  the  expense  of 
the  company  fund. 


FIELD   ICE    BOX. 


\.IL^^^  be  readily  constmcted  according  to  above  design.    It  should  be  weU 
banked  With  earth  on  sides,  rear,  and  top  and  should  face  north. 

137 


138 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 


the  outer  edge.  This  pit  is  filled  with  rock,  on  which  the  fire  is 
built.  The  water  is  poured  into  the  edge  of  the  pit  and  seeps  among 
the  hot  rocks,  which  cause  it  to  evaporate.  The  solid  matter  and 
cans  are  tlirown  into  the  fire;  the  cans  are  raked  out  each  morning. 
Although  this  is  the  most  simple  form  of  incinerator  and  the  most 
easily  constructed,  it  is  the  most  expensive,  because  of  the  excessive 
amount  of  wood  consumed. 


PIT  FOR  SLOPS. 


fP=Tl 


Whenever  facilities  are  not  provided  for  disposing  of  the  kitchen  waste,  it  becomes 
necessary  to  dig  a  pit.  In  short  camps  not  likely  to  be  used  again  all  kitchen  waste 
may  be  thrown  into  the  pit,  but  in  camps  of  longer  duration  it  is  necessary  to  stram 
all  dish  water,  etc.,  through  a  box  sieve  suitably  placed  over  the  pit  and  then  to 
bum  all  solid  matter  in  the  range  or  incinerator.  To  darken  the  pit  and  keep  it  free 
from  flies,  make  a  solid  board  top,  tamp  with  dirt,  and  provide  a  detachable  box 
sieve  with  cover,  as  shown.  The  pit  should  generally  be  about  2^  feet  wide,  5  feet 
long,  and  4  feet  deep  when  dug  in  clay.  In  more  permeal^le  soil  the  dimensions  may 
be  somewhat  reduced.  The  incinerator  is  more  satisfactory  for  disposing  of  waste 
water. 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 


139 


The  incinerator  shown  in  paragrapli  296  in  combination  wdth  the 
Army  field  range  No.  1  is  the  most  convenient  and  economical  for 
camps  of  a  few  days. 

The  following  simple  iiicinerator  is  recommended  for  a  company 
in  camps  of  longer  duration. 


COMPANY   INCINERATOR. 


Dig  two  trenches  10  feot  long  and  10  or  12  inches  wide,  bisecting  each  other.  At 
the  point  of  bisection  have  the  trenches  30  inches  deep,  gradually  shallowing  from 
this  point  to  the  ends.  Fill  with  rock  until  about  18  inches  deep  at  ceiuer.  Over 
the  place  of  bisection  place  four  boards  to  support  an  ordianry  sugar  or  flour  barrel. 
.Ground  the  l)arrel  pile  sods  of  earth  up  to  the  top.  Pack  tightly.  Make  a  fire  in 
the  trench  under  the  barrel,  which,  upon  being  burned  out,  leaves  a  hard  cone. 
According  to  the  direction  of  the  wind,  leave  one  trench  open  and  plug  the  other 
three  openings  near  the  cone  with  boards,  turf,  or  loose  soil.  This  gives  a  draft  of 
air  through  the  open  trench  and  up  through  the  cone,  which  acts  as  a  flue. 

If  the  soil  is  full  of  clay,  the  cone  is  easily  made.  If  not  it  can  be  done  in  the  man- 
ner shown  in  the  illustration  by  using  sods. 

A.11  the  garbage  of  a  company  kitchen  in  the  field  can  be  easily  disposed  of  by  this 
means. 

-Vt  the  end  of  each  day  the  ashes  and  tin  cans  should  be  raked  out  of  the  fireplace 
and  a  fresh  fire  started  in  the  morning. 

The  fire  is  kept  up  by  dropping  fuel  material  down  the  cone,  and  garbage  is  fed 
to  it  in  the  same  manner. 


140  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 

PLAN   AND   CROSS    SECTION    OF   COMPANY    INCINERATOR. 


^^//n/^/f7**^LUf/ i }  I rnrt f  nn irn n i n fuj^ n >  "*r 


In  permanent  camp  a  more  elaborate  incinerator  may  be  readily 
constructed  according  to  the  following  specifications: 


■^IDC  tLCVATIO/i 

JncfncfSATo/s, 


PiA/i- 
/nant^ATOR 


i^^;^^ 


rfATJrJ^/AL5 

SooSr/c/r 

f  CI. pan  -^-o-ZO-e 

3  arvAe  3<7^  ^-^  •/ 


141 


142  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 

The  plate  below  illustrates  the  several  varieties  of  improvised 
field  ovens. 


1.  Clay  covered  trench.  2.  Open  trench  for  baking.  3.  Bean  pit.  4.  Ovens  in 
hillside.'  5.  Mud  oven.    6.  Mud  range. 

HOW  TO   CONSTRUCT  AND   OPERATE   A  TWO-BARREL  CLAY   OVEN. 

Select  a  piece  of  level  ground  about  4  feet  by  10  feet;  get  two 
salt  or  sugar  barrels;  knock  top  and  bottom  from  one,  and  a  small 
section  of  the  bottom  from  the  other  (to  be  used  as  a  flue  in  burning 
out);  place  them  together  head  on,  the  one  with  the  bottom  to  the 
rear.  Cover  the  ends  coming  together  with  a  little  hay,  so  as  to 
keep  the  sand  from  falling  in,  atid  stuff  up  the  hole  broken  in  the 
bottom  of  the  rear  barrel.  Get  some  moist  sand  and  cover  both 
barrels  completely,  molding  it  so  that  it  will  be  about  two  inches 
thick  on  top  and  splay  out  at  the  bottom  about  2  inches  on  each 
side.  Then  mix  some  clay  with  hay,  straw,  or  grass  until  you  have 
a  pretty  stiff  mixture,  and  cover  the  sand,  beginning  at  the  bottom 


MANUAL    FOK   ARMY   COOKS. 


143 


where  it  should  be  about  8  inches  thick  and  jfinishing  at  the  top 
with  about  4  inches.  Let  stand  for  a  day  or  two  and  then  add 
about  3  inches  of  clay  to  the  entire  oven.  Allow  to  stand  a  day 
longer  and  then  cut  a  hole  at  the  rear,  taking  the  hay  from  the  bottom 


TWO-BARREL  CLAY  OVEN. 


■   -■— "^T^ 

. 

V 

,./ 

\ 

•**.•*  * 

^^SS 

it%< 

m      ■*■■■■  ■'-■•  ■r*'H 

mRHH 

l^r;: 

T^r^"                  'K^ 

^ 

^P  1                   '  t^   ~ 

IHHHBHB 

S»  .', 

■••'^'.v 

of  the  barrel.  This  will  afford  a  draught  and  is  also  an  excellent 
means  of  regulating  the  heat.  Put  a  fire  in  the  barrels  and  bum 
them  out.  Care  should  be  taken  to  put  in  just  enough  fire  to  start 
the  barrels,  as  a  big  fire  will  burn  it  too  quickly,  and  the  oven  will 


144 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COO  Kit. 


cave  in.  After  the  barrels  are  burned  out,  scrape  all  the  sand 
from  the  top  and  sides  and  throw  it  out.  The  oven  is  now  complete. 
To  obtain  the  best  rasults  with  this  type  of  oven,  it  is  best  to  start 
the  fire  as  soon  as  the  dough  is  set.  Keep  up  a  pretty  brisk  fire  for 
about  two  hours,  and  as  soon  as  the  dough  is  punched  down,  spread 
the  coals  evenly  throughout  the  entire  oven,  and  close  all  draughts. 
As  soon  as  the  dough  is  panned,  draw  the  fire  and  close  the  oven  up 
for  about  half  an  hour.  Then  take  the  oven  "counts.  "  If  you  can 
count  seven  (second  count)  you  have  just  the  proper  heat.     If  more 

OPEN  TRENCH  USED  FOR  BAKING. 


I^I^HB 

^^^^^^ 

PP^^P 

^^.              ^^Li3R£>^*^^i    -^^         ■<.. 

Trench  about  6  feet  by  15  inches  by  12  inches  deep.  Dry  out  by  slow  fire  and  keep 
slow  fire  in  it  about  2  hours  before  baking.  Sweep  trench  clean  and  test  temperature 
by  sprinkling  a  little  flour  on  bottom.  It  should  brown  in  about  2  minutes.  Place 
loaves,  molded  dry,  across  trench  and  about  2  inches  apart.  Cover  trench  wiih  a 
sheet  of  iron  or  zinc  and  place  coals  upon  it.  Regulate  top  heat  as  required.  Vienna 
shaped  single-ration  loaves  recommended. 

than  10,  the  oven  is  useless.  If  less  than  seven,  the  oven  is  too  hot. 
This  oven  will  hold  five  pans,  each  12  by  24  inches,  or  50  rations — 
sufficient  for  a  company — and  is  equal  to  baking  properties  to  any 
oven  made. 

To  make  a  second  run,  put  in  another  fire  for  about  half  an  hour, 
draw  the  fire  and  close  the  oven  for  15  minutes,  and  the  oven  will 
be  ready  for  the  second  run.  It  would  be  well  to  dig  a  trench  in 
front  of  the  oven  for  convenience  in  handling  the  bread. 


MANUAL   FOE   ABMY   COOKS. 


145 


Lay  out  a  level  piece  of  ground  about  3  feet  10  inches  by  6  feet  9 
inches  and  cover  about  3  inches,  thick  with  wet  clay,  pack  well  and 
smooth  on  top.  On  the  center  of  this  floor  lay  the  barrels  end  to  end 
with  the  opening  of  one  where  the  front  of  the  range  is  to  be.  Take 
Band  just  damp  enough  to  mold  and  pack  under  the  sides  of  the  barrels 
and  over  the  top,  making  the  form  for  the  inside  of  the  oven.    With 


THE   MUD  FIELD   RANGE 


4.  Dug-Out  Oven,    5.  Two-Barrel  Mud  Oven. 


Two-Barrel  Mud  Range. 
This  is  verv  neces- 


the  clay  make  a  thick  piud  and  mix  straw  into  it. 
eary,  as  the  straw  holds  the  clay  together. 

Be^in  on  the  sides  and  back  and  lay  on  the  mud  by  hand,  packing 
it  well  as  it  is  laid  on.  Make  bottom  of  sides  about  10  inches  thick 
and  top  about  eight  inches. 

Just  before  the  top  is  laid  on,  place  blocks  or  bricks  on  end  in  cen- 
ter of  top  of  each  barrel  and  one  over  where  the  barrels  join.     Pack 


146  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY    COOKS. 

some  of  the  clay  around  them  to  hold  them  in  place  while  finishing 
the  top. 

If  desired,  a  hole  may  be  left  at  the  back,  and  a  mud  chimney  con- 
structed. This  improves  the  draft  and  is  believed  desirable,  but  is 
not  necessary. 

This  oven  should  be  allowed  to  stand  in  a  dry  atmosphere  for  at 
least  24  hours.  Then  burn  out  the  barrels  with  a  slow  fire.  Keep  a 
slow  fire  burning  until  the  oven  is  well  dried.  The  sand  will  then 
drop  out  and  can  be  raked  out  with  a  hoe.  Remove  the  bricks  or 
blocks  and  the  range  is  ready  for  use,  but  cracks  appearing  should  be 
plastered  up  with  mud.  Time  required  for  four  men  to  build,  about 
4  hours. 

When  articles  cooked  on  top  of  the  range  are  done,  the  fire  can  be 
drawn  and  the  oven  used  for  baking  bread  or  meats.  See  figure  6 
above. 

This  is  recommended  as  a  very  good  and  convenient  oven.  A 
bank  from  4  to  6  feet  high  is  the  best  for  the  purpose.  The  roof  cover- 
ing need  not  exceed  1^  feet.  Two  men  with  a  spade  and  a  long- 
handled  shovel  can  build  it  in  li^ht  soil  in  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
If  feuch  tools  are  not  available,  it  may  be  constructed  with  trowel, 
bayonet,  intrenching  tools,  or  even  with  knives.  To  build  the  oven, 
dig  down  the  bank  to  a  vertical  face  and  excavate  at  the  base  a  hole 
from  4  to  5  feet  horizontally,  care  being  taken  to  keep  the  entrance 
as  small  as  possible;  hollow  out  the  sides  of  the  excavation  and  arch 
the  roof  until  the  floor  is  about  2  feet  6  inches  in  its  widest  part  and 
the  roof  16  inches  high  in  the  center  of  the  arch.  Then  Up  the  back 
end  for  the  flue.  A  hole  from  4  to  6  inches  in  diameter  will  furnish 
a  good  draft.  A  piece  of  tent  stove  pipe  may  be  utilized  for  this 
purpose.  When  difficult  of  construction,  the  flue  may  be  omitted, 
and  practically  as  good  results  will  be  obtained.  The  time  required 
for  drying  will  depend  upon  the  character  of  the  soil.  If  ordinarily 
dry,  a  fire  kept  up  for  an  hour  will  suffice. 

After  the  oven  has  been  heated  the  temperature  may  be  regulated 
by  means  of  the  door  and  flue — opening  or  closing  them  as  may  be 
necessary. 


147 


Chapter  VII. 

MESSING  ON  BAILBOAD  TRAINS  AND  TRANSPOETS. 

ON    RAILROAD   TRAINS. 

313.  Standard  kitchen  car. — This  is  a  remodeled  tourist  sleeper, 
designed  to  cook  for  a  battalion  (peace  strength)  and  to  carry  42  men. 
Only  limited  faciUtiea  are  provided  for  cold  storage  and  for  the 
storage  of  nonperishable  articles,  so  that  the  bulk  of  the  food  supplies 
must  be  carried  in  a  baggage  car.  For  this  reason,  arrangements 
should  always  be  made  to  have  a  portion  of  a  baggage  car — from 
one-third  to  one-half — allotted  for  this  purpose,  and  in  making  up 
the  train  this  portion  of  the  baggage  car  should  be  placed  next 
to  the  kitchen.  The  garrison  ration  is  issued,  and  a  considerable 
saving  should  be  made  from  the  credit  allowance  on  beef,  beans, 
dried  fruits,  sugar,  sirup,  flavoring  extracts,  etc.  With  this  sav- 
ing canned  meats,  canned  vegetables,  and  canned  fruits  may  be 
purchased. 

An  officer  is  detailed  by  the  commanding  officer  of  the  troops  to 
take  charge  of  the  messing  arrangements  and  he  is  assisted  by  a  mess 
sergeant.  The  mess  officer  designates  the  hours  for  m.eals  and  the 
manner  in  which  they  are  to  be  served  and  request-s  the  necessary 
details  for  kitchen  police  and  waiters.  Generally  one  or  two  cooks 
are  provided  by  the  Pullman  Co.  and  the  company  cooks  should 
be  detailed  to  render  them  the  necessary  assistance  and  to  per- 
form the  duties  of  kitchen  police. 

For  serving  the  meal,  the  company  mess  sergeant  and  one  man  for 
each  article  on  the  bill  of  fare  should  report  from  each  company. 
The  serving  of  the  meal  does  not  begin  until  everything  is  ready. 
The  details  are  then  called  up  in  order  and  the  quantities  due  each 
organization  having  been  determined,  the  troops  farthest  from  the 
kitchen  are  served  first. 

314.  The  following  bills  of  fare  are  considered  appropriate: 

148 


MANUAL  FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  149 

Bills  of  fare  for  100  men  for  4  days. 

DINNER,  22D. 

Fried  beef  steak:  50  pounds  steak. 
Cream  gravy:  2  pounds  flour,  3  cans  milk. 
Boiled  potatoes:  75  pounds  potatoes. 

Farina  custard:  8  pounds  farina,  24  eggs,  6  poimds  sugar,  3  cans  milk,  2  ounces 
extract. 

SUPPER,  22D, 

Beef  stew:  30  pounds  beef,  50  poimds  potatoes,  2  pounds  onions,  2  pounds  flour. 

Creamed  hommy:  20  pounds  nominy,  3  cans  milk. 

Coffee. 

BREAKFAST,  23D. 

Fried  bacon:  25  pounds  bacon. 

Rolled  oats  and  milk:  12  pounds  rolled  oats,  7  pounds  sugar,  6  cans  milk. 

Apple  jelly:  25  pounds  jelly. 

Butter:  2  pounds  butter. 

Coffee. 

DINNER,  23D. 

Roast  beef:  45  potmds  beef. 
Browned  potatoes:  75  pounds  potatoes. 
Kidney  beans:  15  pounds  beans,  kidney. 
Brown  gravy,  2  pounds  flour. 

SUPPER,  23D. 

Sliced  cheese:  18  povmds  cheese. 

Creamed  potatoes:  60  poimds  potatoes,  3  cans  milk,  2  pounds  flour. 

Stewed  peaches:  25  poiands  peaches,  8  pounds  sugar. 

Butter:  2  pounds  butter. 

Coffee, 

BREAKFAST,  24TH. 

Beef  stew:  30  pounds  beef,  50  pounds  potatoes,  2  pounds  onions,  2  pounds  flour. 
Hot  biscuit:  24  povmds  flour,  24  ovmces  baking  powder,  6  pounds  grease,  10  ounces 
salt. 
Sirup:  3  gallons  sirup. 
Butter:  2  potmds  butter. 
Coffee. 

DINNER,  24TH. 

Hot  frankfurters:  20  pounds  frankfurters. 
Mashed  potatoes:  70  pounds  potatoes. 

Hot  slaw:  25  poimds  cabbage,  5  pounds  bacon,  1  gallon  vinegar,  2  pounds  sugar. 
Tapioca  custard:  5  pounds  tapioca,  6  pounds  sugar,  24  eggs, '2  ounces  extract,  3 
i  Cans  milk. 


156  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

SUPPER,  24TH. 

Baked  beef  hash:  30  pounds  beef,  50  pounds  potatoes,  5  pounds  onions. 
Stewed  tomatoes:  20  cans  tomatoes,  2  pounds  sugar,  3  cans  milk. 
Butter:  2  pounds  butter. 
Coffee. 

BREAKFAST,  25TH. 

Fried  bacon:  25  pounds  bacon. 

Gravy:  2  pounds  flour. 

Fried  potatoes:  75  pounds  potatoes. 

Butter:  2  pounds  butter. 

Coffee.  * 

DINNER,  25TH. 

Beef  pot  roast:  50  pounds  beef,  5  pounds  onions,  2  cans  tomatoes. 
BrowTX  gravy:  2  pounds  flour. 
BrowTied  potatoes:  70  pounds  potatoes. 
Stewed  corn:  18  cans  corn,  3  cans  milk. 

Bread  pudding:  20  pounds  bread,  4  pounds  raisins,  8  pounds  sugar,  4  cans  milk, 
1  can  cinnamon. 
Vanilla  sauce:  3  pounds  sugar,  2  pounds  cornstarch,  2  cans  milk,  2  oimces  extract. 

SUPPER,  25TH. 

Beef,  Spanish:  50  poimds  beef,  5  pounds  onions,  5  cans  tomatoes,  3  pounds  flour. 
Mashea  potatoes:  75  pounds  potatoes. 
Butter:  2  pounds  butter. 
Coffee. 

BREAKFAST,  26TH. 

Beef  stew:  30  pounds  beef,  50  pounds  potatoes,  2  pounds  onions,  2  poimds  flour. 

Rolled  oats  and  milk:  12  pounds  oats,  7  pounds  sugar,  6  cans  milk. 

Coffee. 

315.  Suggestions  to  mess  sergeant — 

(1)  Keep  the  keys  to  the  ice  box  during  jouraev. 

(2)  Weigh  out  to  cooks  every  article  on  this  bill  of  fare  in  the 
exact  amount  specified. 

(3)  If  it  becomes  apparent  that  rations  will  have  to  be  turned  in 
at  end  of  journey,  change  meals  so  as  to  have  nonperishable  articles 
left  as  far  as  possible. 

(4)  If  no  scales  are  available,  refer  to  table  of  weights  and  meas- 
ures in  individual  cooking,  Chapter  VI,  paragraphs  301  and  302. 

(5)  Have  sufficient  water  heated  for  the  men  to  wash  their  dishes. 
Each  car  will  send  one  man  to  the  kitchen  for  same  and  dishes  will 
be  washed  on  car  platform.  Clean  the  platform  when  dishes  are 
finished. 


MANUAL   FOB   ARMY    COOKS.  151 

6)  Use  30  pounds  of  bread  to  each  meal. 

7)  Use  3^  pounds  coffee,  4  pounds  sugar,  4  cans  milk  to  each 
meal  of  coffee. 

316.  Baggage  car  with  field  range. — When  the  standard  kitchen 
car  is  not  available,  one  or  more  Army  field  ranges  may  be  set  up 
in  a  baggage  car.  With  this  equipment  the  messing  arrangements 
are  similar  to  those  when  the  standard  kitchen  cars  are  used. 

The  following  instructions  are  given  for  installing  and  dismantling 
field  range  No.  1  and  boiling  plate  in  a  baggage  car. 

Construct  a  box  6  feet  8  inches  long  by  3^  feet  wide  and  about 
12  inches  deep,  inside  measurements,  using  I^  or  2  inch  material  if 
available.  Line  the  sides,  ends,  and  top  edge  of  box  with  gal- 
vanized iron  or  zinc.  Place  box  in  car  running  lengthwise  on  one 
side  of  the  car,  about  2  feet  from  the  side.  Fill  box  with  dirt  up  to 
about  2  inches  of  the  top.  Place  a  brick  flush  with  top  of  dirt  at 
each  of  the  four  corners  where  the  range  will  set.  Place  range  in 
box,  front  and  oven  end  close  up  against  end  of  box,  and  deep 
k  enough  in  box  so  that  when  oven  door  is  opened  it  will  lie  flat  on 
edge  of  box.  Place  boiling  plate  in  box,  the  end  resting  on  top  of 
angle  iron  on  rear  of  range.  Place  a  brick  under  each  front  corner 
of  boiling  plate,  flush  ^vith  top  of  dirt.  The  Alamo  attachment  is 
not  used  when  range  No.  1  is  installed  in  the  above  manner. 
,  Fasten  range  and  boiling  plate  firmly  to  box  by  means  of  strap 
iron  or  two  or  three  strands  of  telegraph  or  telephone  wire,  at  points 
shown  on  figure.  Fill  space  between  range,  boiling  plate,  and  side 
of  box  with  soft  mud,  to  prevent  heat  from  escaping.  Three  and 
even  four  field  ranges  may  be  installed  in  a  car. 

Remove  one  of  the  top  ventilating  windows  from  car;  tack  tent 
guards,  furnished  with  each  range,  over  the  opening — one  on  the 
outside  of  the  car  and  one  on  the  inside.  Carry  stovepipe  up  and 
out  through  the  opening.  End  of  pipe  should  extend  about  6  inches 
outsiae  of  the  ventilator  opening.  Elbow  should  be  placed  on  end 
of  pipe  facing  up  and  wired  firmly  to  car.  Wire  stovepipe  firmly  to 
both  sides  of  car. 

Box  can  be  held  firmly  in  position  on  floor  of  car  hy  nailing  2  by 
4  inch  strips  around  sides  and  ends  of  box.  This  ib  important  and 
must  not  be  neglected. 


152 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 


Army  field  range  1,  with  boiling  plate  42  back  to  back,  In  frame  box,  on 
lor  use  in  transit,  without  Alamo  attachment. 


MANUAL  FOE  ARMY   COOKS. 


153 


The  following  additional  equipment  to  that  supplied  with  each 
range  is  necessary: 

2  G.  I.  water  cans. 
2  G.  I.  buckets. 
1  elbow,  stovepipe. 
100  feet  wire. 

Water  cans  should  be  filled  on  every'possible  occasion  where  stops 
are  made. 

If  the  equipment  is  to  be  set  up  in  a  freight  car,  a  hole  will  have 
to  be  cut  m  the  top  of  car  for  the  stovepipe,  using  tent  guards,  as 
explained  above,  to  cover  the  opening. 

317.  Detachment  kitchen  car. — This  car  is  designed  for  journeys 
where  the  number  of  men  or  the  distance  to  be  traveled  does  not 
warrant  the  use  of  the  standard  kitchen  car. 

It  is  provided  with  a  gas  range  attached  to  the  Pintsch  gas  tanks, 
and  cooks  for  as  many  men  as  can  be  carried  on  the  car.  There  is 
no  ice  box  or  refrigerator  on  this  car,  and  consequently  fresh  beef  can 
not  generally  be  carried  for  more  than  two  meals,  unless  the  weather 
is  such  that  the  meat  may  be  carried  in  sacking  on  the  platform. 
Travel  rations  and  fresh  bread  for  30  men  for  five  days  can  be  carried, 
in  the  locker  and  a  vacant  section  in  the  car.  If  the  detachment  is 
without  an  experienced  cook,  travel  rations  should  be  carried,  and 
coffee  made,  under  the  direction  of  the  oflBcer  or  noncommissioned 
oflBcer  in  charge.  On  short  journeys,  where  an  experienced  cook  is 
^available,  the  garrison  ration  should  be  provided. 

The  following  bills  of  fare  are  considered  appropriate : 


1 

2 

Breakfast. 

Lunch. 

Supper. 

Beefsteak  and  gravy. 
Boiled  potatoes. 
Apricots. 
Bread  and  coffee. 

Cold  sliced  corned  beef. 
Boiled  potatoes  and  gravy. 
Canned  peaches. 
Bread  and  coffee. 

Baked  beans. 
Blackberry  jam. 
Bread  and  butter. 
Coffee. 

Cold  sliced  corned  beef. 
Canned  peas. 
Coffee. 
Bread. 

Beef  stew. 
Bread  and  butter. 
Coffee. 

Beefsteak. 
Boiled  potatoes. 
Bread  and  jam. 
Coffee. 

X54  MANUAL   FOB  ABM T  COOKS. 

318.  Pintsch  gas  cooker. — This  cooker  is  designed  for  the  use  of 
troops  traveling  in  any  type  of  car  equipped  with  the  Pintsch  gas- 
lighting  system,  and  practical  experience  haa  shown  that  sufficient 
gas  is  generally  available  for  all  cooking  to  be  done.  It  waa  suffi- 
cient capacity  for  cooking  for  48  men  (the  maximum  number  carried 
in  one  car)  and  supplies  two  hot  components  of  the  meal,  as,  for 
example,  hot  coffee  and  stewed  corn,  although  but  one  article  can 
be  cooked  at  a  time.  One  cooker  is  supplied  with  each  car  and 
contains  ample  utensils  for  cooking  and  serving  the  food,  though 
the  individual  mess  Id ta  must  be  used. 

Directions  for  use. — In  setting  up  the  gas  cooker  the  work  should 
be  supervised  by  a  commissioned  officer.  If  none  are  present,  then 
by  the  noncommissioned  officer  in  charge. 

(a)  Set  burner  and  stand  in  men's  wash  room  or  other  suitable 
place  and  connect  same  with  the  nearest  4- tipped  burner,  as  follows: 

(6)  Remove  glass  bowl  and  turn  over  to  porter.  Unscrew 
4-cluster  flame,  being  careful  not  to  unscrew  tne  cluster  stem. 
Screw  ehort  pieces  of  eaa  tubing  to  cluster  stem  where  4-cluster 
flame  was  removed  by  the  coupling  at  one  end  of  the  tubing.  Then 
attach  long  piece  of  tubing  to  short  piece  and  connect  with  the 
burner  of  the  cooker.  After  the  meal  has  been  prepared  disconnect 
long  piece  of  tubing  and  allow  end  to  remain  attached  to  the  cluster 
stem.  When  it  is  desired  to  operate  the  cooker,  connect  long  piece 
of  tubing  to  short  piece. 

If  it  is  not  practicable  to  make  connections  with  a  4-clu8ter  flame 
connect  burner  of  cooker  with  a  1  burner  bracket  lamp,  as  follows: 

WUh  pliers  remove  gas  tip  and  loosen  the  governing  screw  so  as 
to  insure  a  free  flow  of  gas. 

If  the  governing  screw  sticks  tap  lightly  with  the  handle  of  the 
screw  driver  until  it  can  be  easily  removed.  Do  not  entirely  un- 
screw the  governing  screw.  Slip  rubber  end  of  tubing  over  pillar 
and  connect  other  end  to  the  burner  of  the  cooker. 

(c)  The  connections  having  been  made,  turn  on  the  gas  at  the 
lamp  and  burner  of  the  cooker  and  light  with  a  wax  taper.  The 
greatest  heat  is  obtained  bv  having  a  strong  blue  flame. 

(d)  The  burner  being  lighted,  set  on  the  largest  copper  boiler  if  it 
is  desired  to  make  coffee.    The  boiler  should  be  fllled  about  two- 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY  COOKS.  15a. 

thirds  full,  additional  water  being  added  when  the  coffee  has  come 
to  a  boil. 

After  coffee  has  been  made,  remove  and  set  boiler  on  one  of  the^ 
asbestos  mats,  to  prevent  damage  to  the  floor  of  the  car.  The  second 
boiler  is  then  set  on  the  burner,  with  such  food  as  may  be  desired 
to  cook.  Water  must  be  added  to  prevent  burning  of  food  and 
melting  the  boilers.  Stirring  is  also  necessary  when  preparing 
certain  foods. 

It  requires  about  1  hour  and  20  minutes  to  prepare  coffee  and  cook 
one  hot  dish  for  48  men. 

After  the  meal  is  prepared  set  the  galvanized-iron  boiler  on  the 
burner  and  heat  the  necessary  water  for  washing  the  mess  kits  and 
utensils. 

Caution — 

(a)  Do  not  put  boilers  on  without  water  in  them. 

(b)  Always  add  a  little  water,  about  1  quart  to  every  10  pounds 
of  food  to  prevent  "burning. 

(c)  Remove  the  coffee  and  hot  water  from  the  copper  vessels  as 
soon  as  practicable,  to  preserve  the  tinning  inside. 

(d)  Look  at  the  gas  name  occasionally,  to  see  that  it  has  not  blown 
out. 

(e)  To  reduce  gas  consumption  and  save  time,  get  hot  water  for 
washing  dishes  from  the  locomotive. 

(/)  Never  light  the  ^as  with  boiler  set  on  heater. 

ig)  If  the  roadbed  is  rough  and  there  is  considerable  motion  to- 
the  train,  secure  the  stand  and  burner  by  the  two  leather  straps 
furnished  with  the  cooker.  To  prevent  the  splashing  of  water  when 
coffee  is  made  or  water  heated,  place  round  slop  board  in  the  boQer& 
so  as  to  counteract  the  motion  of  the  car. 

(h)  In  case  of  leaks  in  the  gas  tubing,  cut  out  leak  with  sharp 
knife  and  connect  the  two  pieces  of  tubing  with  a  coupler,  wrapping 
ends  of  tubing  with  wire. 

(i)  Handle  the  equipment  intelligently  and  carefully.  Never 
pack  any  article  unless  clean  and  dry.  When  returned  to  a  depot- 
or  post  the  equipment  should  be  completely  overhauled,  cleaned,; 
and  tested. 


166  MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 

The  garrison  ration  is  used  when  the  cooker  is  provided  and  it  ia 
reoommended  that  the  following  food  be  purchased  from  the  credit 
allowance: 

Beef,  corned,  canned. 

Hash,  corned-beef. 

Salmon,  canned. 

Potatoes,  about  one-third  of  allowance. 

Soft  bread. 

Hard  bread. 

Tomatoes. 

Jam. 

Coffee,  roasted  ai^d  ground. 

Tea. 

Sugar. 

Milk,  evaporated. 

Pickles. 

Salt. 

Pepper. 

Butter. 

Sirup. 

Soap. 

A  quantity  of  canned  baked  beans  should  be  purchased,  as  they 
<  an  be  readily  heated  by  the  cooker  and  the  dried  beans  can  not  be 
cooked  en  route.  If  the  journey  is  an  extended  one,  fresh  onions 
and  a  small  quantity  of  bacon  may  be  purchased. 

On  account  of  the  limited  space  avaQable  for  cooking,  it  is  not 
practicable  to  prepare  elaborate  meals,  but  the  fare  may  be  much 
improved  by  purchasing  extra  food  from  the  company  fund. 

the  following  is  a  list  of  foods  which  may  be  prepared  on  the  g 
cooker: 

Beans,  etringless,  canned. 

Beef  stew,  canned. 

Chocolate. 

Cocoa. 

Com,  canned. 

Eggs,  fresh. 

Frankfurter  sausage,  canned  or  fresh. 


MANUAL   FOE  ABMY   COOKS. 


157 


Fruit,  fresh. 

Hominy,  canned. 

Peas,  canned. 

Plum  pudding,  canned. 

Sauerkraut,  canned. 

Soups,  canned. 

Vienna  sausage,  canned  or  fresh. 

The  following  are  sample  bills  of  fare  for  two  days  when  using  the 
Pintsch  gas  cooker: 


FIBST  DAY. 

SECOND  DAY. 

Breakfast: 

Breakfast: 

Hot  coraed-beef  hash. 

Hot  baked  beans. 

Soft  bread  and  butter. 

Soft  bread  and  butter. 

Coflee. 

Coffee. 

Dinner: 

Dinner: 

Cold  corned  beef. 

Cold  meats. 

Hot  baked  beans. 

Stewed  tomatoes  and  com 

Soft  bread. 

Soft  bread. 

Pickles. 

Tea. 

Coffee. 
Supper: 

Cold  meat  (boiled  ham 

Supper: 

Hot  corned-beef  hash. 

or  roiast  beef 

Soft  bread. 

cooked  before  starting 

on  journey). 

Coffee. 

Stewed  tomatoes. 

Sirup. 

Soft  bread  and  jam. 
Tea. 

319. 

ON 

TRANSPORTS. 

Troops  traveling  on  transpc^rts  subsist  on  the  garrison  ration, 
varied  by  the  substitution  of  other  articles  of  authorized  subsistence 
stores,  tne  total  daily  cost  per  man  of  the  food  consumed  not  to 
exceed  20  per  cent  more  than  the  current  cost  of  the  garrison  ration. 
No  savings  are  authorized. 

The  subsisting  of  the  troops  is  in  charge  of  the  chief  steward,  who 
is  responsible  for  the  discipline,  good  conduct,  and  efficiency  of  the 
employees  of  his  department,  and  for  the  care  and  preservation  of 
subsistence  stores,  cleanliness  of  troop  galleys,  and  prevention  of 
waste,  and  is  required  to  see  that  the  quantity  and  quality  of  provi- 
sions are  satisfactory.    But  the  messing  of  troops  on  board  is  under 


158  MANUAL  FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

the  immediate  charge  of  a  mess  officer  detailed  by  the  commanding 
officer  of  the  troops. 

The  mess  officer  is  assisted  by  a  noncommissioned  officer  and  by 
such  other  enlisted  men  (noncommissioned  officers,  cooks,  bakers, 
waiters,  etc.),  detailed  from  the  troops  on  board,  as  may  be  necessary. 
He  is  required  to  see  that  the  meals  are  served  in  the  proper  order  and 
at  the  proper  time;  that  utensils  are  cleaned  and  put  away  after  each 
meal;  and  that  the  mess  decks  are  properly  policed.  He  prescribes^ 
the  order  in  which  the  di-fferent  companies  are  to  be  served  and 
prevents  crowding  and  confusion  in  the  troop  galleys.  He  is  respon- 
sible for  the  table  furniture  used  and  receipts  to  the  quartermaster 
agent  for  it.  Under  the  direction  of  the  commanding  officer,  he 
should  see  that  the  casuals  on  board  are  divided  into  suitable  sized 
mess  squads  and  that  all  troops  are  assigned  to  certain  tables  and  that 
when  all  can  not  be  served  at  the  same  time,  the  sittings  and  assign- 
ments are  such  that  no  organization  is  placed  at  a  disadvantage.  He 
makes  an  inspection  of  the  decks  at  each  meal  and  sees  that  his  orders 
are  being  carried  out. 

It  is  his  most  important  duty  to  see  that  the  troops  on  board  get  the 
full  benefit  of  their  ration  allowances.  To  do  this,  he  should  get  from 
the  adjutant  a  statement  of  the  number  of  men  to  be  subsisted  in  the 
troop  mess  and  from  the  chief  steward  each  day  a  list  of  the  stores 
turned  over  to  the  troop  galley,  the  bill  of  fare,  and  a  price  list  of  all 
stores  on  hand.  The  mess  officer's  assistant  should  check  the  list  of 
stores  actually  turned  over  to  the  troop  galley  and  the  amount  of 
bread  actually  issued.  The  mess  officer  has  now  complete  data  to 
enable  him  to  determine  just  what  subsistence  stores  may  be  pur- 
chased for  the  mess.  He  should  keep  a  balance  sheet,  in  order  to 
know  from  day  to  day  how  the  value  of  the  food  consumed  compares 
with  the  daily  allowance.  In  making  this  calculation  it  should  be 
remembered  that  each  100  pounds  of  flour  baked  should  produce 
about  140  pounds  of  bread ;  that  the  regular  bakers  are  paid  the  same 
as  other  ship's  employees;  and  that  the  enlisted  men  detailed  to 
assist  them  are  given  no  extra  compensation.  The  amount  of  bread 
actually  consumed  should  never  exceed  1  pound  per  man  daily,  and 
with  proper  care  it  should  not  exceed  12  ounces.  T'le  consumption 
of  the  meat  and  fresh  vegetable  components  is  ordLiarily  about  the 
same  as  in  garrison. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  159 

From  a  consideration  of  the  above  facts,  it  would  seem  that  the 
troops  should  get  all  the  meat  and  vegetables  they  want,  and  that 
there  should  be  no  reason  for  having  any  kind  of  a  stew  more  than 
once  a  day.  The  troops  should,  however,  be  provided  every  day 
with  a  good  stock  soup. 

There  is  always  more  waste  aboard  ship  than  in  a  company  mess  on 
shore,'  but  this  waste  may  be  greatly  reduced  by  carefulsnpervision. 
There  are  often  many  casuals  on  board,  and  it  is  only  by  the  most 
careful  supervision  that  unnecessary  waste  by  them  can  be  prevented. 
It  is  important  that  bread  be  cut  into  small  slices  and  that  all  food  not 
taken  on  the  men 's  plates  be  returned  to  the  galleys  for  future  use  and 
that  the  men  be  not  allowed  to  take  on  their  plates  more  than  they 
are  going  to  eat.  By  careful  supervision  an  excellent  mess  may  be 
maintained . 

There  should  be  an  officer  present  with  each  organization  at  each 
meal  to  see  that  the  men  appear  at  the  tables  properly  dressed,  with 
hands  and  faces  washed,  hair  combed,  and  hats  off;  JLha.t  they  are 
served  in  an  orderly  manner;  that  undue  waste  is  prevented;  that 
they  remain  at  the  table  no  longer  than  their  allottea  time ;  that  the 
tables  are  cleaned  off  and  in  good  condition  for  the  next  sitting;  and 
that  men ,  not  authorized  to  be  on  his  portion  of  the  mess  decks  at  meal 
times,  keep  off.  Fifteen  minutes  before  meals  the  mess  decks  should 
be  cleared  and  no  one  (not  on  duty)  allowed  to  enter  until  mess  call 
sounds,  and  then  only  those  men  who  are  assigned  to  that  particular 
sitting. 

Experience  has  shown  that  troops  can  be  made  to  appear  just  as 
well  at  their  meals  on  board  ship  as  in  their  barracks,  and  that  they 
can  be  taught  to  preserve  the  same  order  and  cleanliness  as  when  on 
shore. 

For  a  command  of  1,000  men,  the  following  details  from  the  troops 
are  usually  made: 

(a)  One  noncommissioned  officer  in  general  charge.  He  keeps 
check  on  the  rations  received  and  superintends  the  work  of  the  men 
in  the  galley  during  the  preparartion  of  the  meals  and  during  their 
service.  He  calls  up  the  details  from  the  different  mess  squads 
(usually  one  noncommissioned  officer  and  three  privates  to  each 
squad)  in  their  j^roper  order,  and  sees  that  the  different  components 
of  the  meal  are  issued  out  in  sufficient  quantities,  according  to  the 


160  MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

number  of  men  in  the  various  squads.  He  receives  complaints  and, 
if  unable  to  remedy  the  same,  at  once  reports  the  facts  to  the  mess 
officer. 

(6)  One  noncommissioned  officer  and  two  men  to  carve  meat. 
This  noncommissioned  officer  assists  the  noncommissioned  officer 
in  general  charge  in  any  way  directed. 

(c)  Two  cooks  for  day  duty. 

Id)  Two  cooks  for  night  duty,  roasting  beef,  etc. 

(e)  Two  bakers. 

{f\  One  assistant  butcher. 

(a)  One  man  to  attend  to  the  coffee  boiler. 

(h)  Two  men  for  general  work,  peeling  potatoes,  etc. 

Altogether,  about  1  man  for  every  50  on  board.  Prisoners  are 
usually  available  for  bringing  rations  from  the  hold .  Troops  usually 
have  little  to  do  on  board,  and  the  mess  officer  should  be  given  as 
many  men  as  he  desires  to  assist  in  the  work. 

320.  Steam  cooking. — Generally  speaking,  food  on  transports  is 
cooked  by  steam.  There  is  an  impression  that  the  steam  used  in 
cooking  comes  in  direct  contact  with  the  food  and  that  there  is  a 
peculiar  taste  to  steam-cooked  food.  This  is  a  mistake.  A  steam 
lacket  surrounds  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  vessel,  being  separated 
from  it  about  an  inch  and  a  half  and  having  no  connection  with  the 
inside  of  the  vessel.  In  some  cooking  pots  this  jacket  extends  only 
half  way  up  the  sides,  while  in  others  it  extends  to  the  top.  There 
is  absolutely  no  difference  between  boiling  and  stewing  in  the 
steam  pot  and  by  the  ordinary  method  on  the  range. 

321.  Preparation  of  meats. — Beef  may  bo  roasted  nicely  in  any 
steam  pot  of  sufficient  capacity,  to  which  the  steam  is  suppliei 
through  an  inch  pipe  with  60  pounds  pressure.  The  beef  should  be 
cut  in  pieces  weighing  about  5  pounds' each  and  put  into  the  pot,  no 
part  of  the  meat  coming  above  the  steam  jacket.  Begin  to  baste 
the  beef  after  about  half  an  hour.  When  it  is  about  half  done,  take 
an  iron  hook  (about  2  feet  long,  with  a  2-inch  hook  and  wire  grip) 
and  turn  the  pieces  over  one  by  one. 

This  method  of  roasting  has  no  equal  for  medium  and  well  done 
roasts,  but  the  range  is  better  for  rare  roasts.  The  st^am  pot  is 
better  than  the  range  for  cooking  fat  meats,  pork,  and  mutton. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  161 

322.  Bread  and  cake. — On  account  of  the  limited  space,  the 
"straight-dough"  process  of  baking  bread  should  be  followed  on 
transports.  Allow  the  dough  to  rise  twice  and  work  it  down;  allow 
it  to  nse  again,  and  mold  into  loaves.  One-pound  loaves  are  the  best 
size  to  bake,  as  they  may  be  baked  in  from  30  to  40  minutes.  With 
the  proper  number  of  bakers,  the  work  pertaining  to  baking  bread 
ehould  be  finished  by  1  a.  m.  Between  this  time  and  5  or  6  a.  m. 
the  shop  may  be  used  for  baking  cakes  and  pies  for  the  troops.  After 
5  or  6  a.  m.  it  is  used  by  the  pastry  cooks.  To  do  this  work,  a  shift 
of  three  bakers  (for  1,000  men)  should  come  on  duty  at  12  midnight 
and  leave  at  6  a.  m. 

The  following  recipe  for  cake  has  been  handled  on  board  transports 
with  marked  success: 

50  pounds  sugar. 

25  pounds  fat. 

400  eggs. 

1  bottle  lemon  extract. 

2  pounds  salt. 
100  pounds  flour. 

10  8-ounce  cans  baking  powder. 
Beat  the  sugar,  fat,  eggs,  lemon  extract,  and  salt  together  for 
about  15  minutes^  then  add  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  mixing 
well.  Add  sufficient  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Spread  from 
1^  to  2  inches  deep  in  bake  pans,  and  allow  to  bake  from  30  to  50 
minutes  in  a  medium-hot  oven. 

An  excellent  cake  can  be  made  by  using  the  same  recipe  and 
adding  raisins  or  currants,  or  by  blending  witn  the  dough  10  pouids 
of  chocolate,  or  by  blending  with  one-half  the  dou^h  2  pounds  of 
chocolate.  In  the  last  case,  place  the  light  dough  m  the  pan  first 
and  spread  the  dough  contaimng  the  chocolate  on  top  of  this.  The 
recipe  may  be  further  varied  by  adding  other  flavors  or  by  making 
layer  cakes. 

An  excellent  icing  can  be  made  of  the  whites  of  20  ^s,  a  bottle 

of  lemon  extract,  10  lemons,  1  ounce  of  tartaric  acid,  and  suflicient 

'  powdered  sugar  to  thicken  it.    Whip  well  and  spread  over  the  cakes. 

i     These  cakes  are   called  plain  cake,  raisin  cake,  currant  cake, 

f  chocolate  cake,  marble  cake,  lemon  cake,  lemon  layer  cake,  etc. 

The  fat  required  to  bake  pies  and  cakes  can  be  saved  from  the  beef. 


162 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 


Generally  speaking  the  diet  on  board  ship  is  too  heavy,  con- 
sidering the  amount  of  work  done  by  the  men.  Too  much  meat  is 
consumed,  A  great  variety  of  light  food  should  be  supplied  them. 
Boiled  fresh  fish  with  cream  sauce  can  easily  be  handled  three  time^ 
a  week.  Men  do  not  easily  tire  of  fresh  fish,  boiled  or  fried,  but 
always  tire  of  canned  salmon  when  served  frequently. 


323. 


Ten  days^  bills  of  fare  for  transport  mess. 


Breakfast. 

Dinner. 

Supper. 

1 

Fine  hominy  with  suear. 
Beef  stew,  family  style. 
Bread  and  butter. 

Vermicelli  soup. 

Stewed  apples. 

BoUed  bacon  with  cab- 

Braised  beef. 

bage. 

BoUed  potatoes. 

Cofl«o  with  milk. 

Mashed  potatoes. 
Stewed  Uma  beans. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Tea, 

Stewed  peaches. 

Bread  and  coflee. 

2 

Oatmeal  and  milk. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Stewed  prunes. 
Corned-beef  hash. 

Soft-boiled  eggs. 

Roast  beef. 

Baked  potatoes. 

Boiled  onioas. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Cocoa. 

Coffee. 

Pickles  and  cold  slaw. 
Com  cake. 
Bread  and  coflee. 

3 

Fresh  apples. 

Pur^  of  split-pea  soup. 

Salmon  salad. 

Com-meal    mush    and 

Braised  steak  and  omons. 

Boiled  potatoes. 
Cannea  apples. 
Bread  and  Dutter. 

milk. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Fried  bacon. 

Stewed  peaches. 

Browned  potatoes. 
Broad  and  butter. 

Bread  and  coflee. 

Coflee. 

Coffee. 

4 

Cracked    wheat    with 

Cream  of  tomato  soup. 
Corned  beef  with  cabbage. 

Beef,  Spanish. 

sugar. 

Rice. 

Vienna  sausage. 

Boiled  potatoes. 

Fruit  pudding. 

Potatoes. 

Plain  cake. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Bread  and  coffee. 

Tea. 

Coffee. 

5 

Bananas  or  oranges. 
Fine  hominy  and  milk. 

Rice  and  tomato  soup. 

Braised  beef. 

Roast  of  mutton,  gravy. 

Potatoes, 

Soft-boiled  eggs. 

Mashed  potatoes. 
Stewed  fima  beans. 

Blackberry  Jam. 
Bread  and  butter. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Coflee. 

Plain  pudding  with  sauce. 

Tea. 

MANUAL   FOE   ARMY   COOKS.  163 

Ten  days^  bills  of  fare  for  transport  mess — Continued. 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


BoUed  rice  and  milk. 
Pork  sausage  and  gravy, 
Baked  potatoes. 
Bread  and  butter. 
Coflee. 


Oatmeal  and  milk. 

Braised  liver  and  bacon. 

Potatoes. 

Bread  arid  butter. 

Coffee. 


Oranges. 

Cracked  wheat  and  milk. 

Boiled   eggs   and   fried 

bacon. 
Potatoes. 
Bread  and  butter. 
Coffee. 

Fresh  apples. 

Fine  hominy  and  milk. 

Boiled  eggs. 

Corned-beef  hash. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Coffee. 

Apple  butter. 
Corn-meal    mash    and 

milk. 
Boiled  eggs   and  fried 

bacon. 
Potatoes. 
Bread  and  butter. 
Coffee. 


Pur^  of  bean  soup. 
Corned  pork  witn  sauer 

kraut. 
Mashed  potatoes. 
Cottage  pudding  and 

sauce. 
Bread  and  coffee. 

Noodle  soup. 
Soft  roast  of  beef. 
Mashed  potatoes. 
Boiled  beans. 
Stewed  peaches. 
Bread  and  coffee. 

Rice  and  tomato  soup. 
BoDed   beef  and   dump- 

hngs. 
Boiled  potatoes. 
Baked  hominy. 
Plain  cake. 
Bread  and  coffee. 

Noodle  soup. 

Beef  k  la  mode,  gravy. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Stewed  corn. 

Bread  and  butter. 

Coffee. 

Vegetable  soup. 

Pork  and  beans. 

Sliced  onions,  catsup. 

Beet  pickles. 

Plum  pudding  and  sauce. 

Bread  and  coffee. 


Chili  con  came. 
Macaroni  and  cheese. 
Stewed  prunes. 
Bread  and  butter. 
Cocoa. 


Mutton  stew. 

Cottage  pudding  and 

sauce. 
Bread  and  butter. 
Tea. 


Corned-beef  hash. 
Canned  apples. 
Bread  and  Dutter. 
Coflee. 


Curried  beef  and  rice. 
Baked  potatoes. 
Peach  butter. 
Bread  and  coffee. 


Braised  beef. 
Potatoes. 
Canned  peaches. 
Bread  and  butter. 
Coflee. 


Chapter  VIII. 

EECIPES.    • 

BREAKFAST   DISHES. 

324.  Milk  for  hreakfast  foods  (for  20  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
2  1-pound  cans  evaporated  milk. 
8  ounces  sugar 
Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  sufficient  water  to  make  1  gallon.    Whip 
well  a  few  minutes. 

325.  Cakes,  hatter  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

8  pounds  flour. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

16  eggs. 

8  ounces  baking  powder. 

1|  ounces  salt. 
Make  a  batter  of  the  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  eggs  (if  practicable, 
about  10  hours  before  the  cakes  are  to  be  made).  Just  before  cook- 
ing each  portion  of  the  batter,  mix  in  the  proper  portion  of  baking 
powder  and  gTease  griddle.  If  for  example,  one-eighth  of  the  above 
amount  is  to  be  baked  at  a  time,  1  ounce  of  the  baking  powder  should 
be  added  to  each  portion.    Serve  hot  with  butter,  eirup,  or  both. 

326.  Cakes,  buckwheat  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
5  pounds  buckwheat  flour. 
5  pounds  wheat  flour. 
2i  pounds  molasses,  or 
2|  pounds  sugar. 
2  ounces  salt 
10  ounces  baking  powder. 

164 


MANUAL    FOE   ARMY    COOKS.  165 

Mix  the  flour,  salt,  and  molaeses  (or  sugar),  and  add  water  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Just  before  cooking  each  portion  of  the  batter  add  the 
baking  powder  and  grease  the  pan,  as  explained  in  the  preceding 
recipe.  If  desired,  this  batter  may  be  set  the  evening  before,  with 
3  cakes  of  dried  yeast,  allowing  it  to  stand  about  12  hours  in  a  tem- 
perature of  80°  F.  In  this  case,  3  ounces  of  baking  powder  may  be 
added,  if  desired,  but  this  is  not  necessary.  Serve  hot  with  sirup, 
butter,  or  both. 

327.  Cakes,  com  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
3  pounds  flour. 
^       3  pounds  corn  meal. 
1^  pounds  sugar. 
12  eggs. 

6  ounces  baking  powder. 
Mix  the  flour,  com  meal,  sugar,  and  eggs  into  a  batter,  beating 
well  for  about  five  minutes,  and  let  stand  for  2  hours  before  using. 
Add  the  baking  powder  just  before  baking,  mixing  it  into  each  por- 
tion, as  explained  for  batter  cakes.  In  no  case  should  all  of  the 
baking  powder  be  added  at  once.  Serve  hot  with  sirup,  butter, 
or  both. 

Hot  cakes. — In  many  organizations  attempts  to  serve  cakes  have 
been  given  up  on  account  of  the  apparent  necessity  of  serving  them 
cold.  To  obviate  this,  place  a  hot  bake  pan  on  the  shelf  in  the  range 
and  as  fast  as  the  cakes  are  fried  pile  them  carefuUy  in  tiers  of  about 
one  dozen  each  and  they  will  keep  hot  for  a  long  time.  Cover  with 
a  clean  dish  towel,  and  use  one  beneath  the  pile  of  cakes. 

328.  Freiich  toast  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
17  pounds  bread. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  sirup. 
1  can  evaporated  milk, 

1  quart  water. 
6  eggs. 

2  pounds  flour. 


Xbo  MANUAL   FOB  ABMT    COOKS. 

Cut  the  bread  in  elices  about  one-half  inch  thick;  dip  in  a  batter 
made  of  the  eggs,  fiour,  milk,  sugar,  and  water;  add  salt  to  taate; 
fry  the  same  as  batter  cakes.    Serve  hot  with  butter. 

329.  Hominy,  fried  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  pounds  hominy. 
4  gallons  water. 
2  ounces  salt. 
Place  the  water  in  a  boiler  on  the  range;  when  boiling  add  the 
salt  and  hominy  and  boil  20  to  30  minutes;  remove  from  the  boiler, 
spread  about  1  inch  deep  in  well-greased  pans,  and  allow  to  cool; 
cut  in  pieces  about  2  inches  square;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep 
lard.     Serve  hot  with  sirup  or  butter. 

330.  Flaked  hominy  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
5^  pounds  flaked  hominy. 
4  gallons  of  water. 
2  ounces  sugar. 

1  ounce  salt. 

Bring  the  water  to  a  boil,  then  add  sugar,  salt,  and  hominy;  let 
boil  for  about  20  minutes;  remove  to  the  back  part  of  the  range  and 
let  simmer  for  about  40  minutes.  A  double  boiler  is  preferable. 
One  can  be  made  by  inserting  the  boiler  with  the  hominy  into  a 
larger  boiler. 

331.  Milk  toast  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
12  pounds  bread. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

Slices  of  bread  left  over  may  be  used.  Place  in  a  large  bake  pan 
not  more  than  one-third  full,  and  brown  in  a  15-count  oven.  Satu- 
rate with  boilinff  water  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Serve  in  vege- 
table dishes,  witn  milk  poured  over  it. 


MANUAL   FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  167 

332.  Mush,  com  meal  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

6  pounds  com  meal. 

1^  pounds  sugar,  if  not  on  table. 

1  ounce  salt. 

4  gallons  water. 
Allow  the  water  to  come  to  a  boil,  add  the  salt  (and  sugar  if  not 
on  table)  and  the  com  meal,  meanwhile  whipping  well  to  prevent 
lumping.  Cook  for  about  20  minutes  and  then  allow  to  stand  about 
the  same  length  of  time  where  it  will  remain  hot.  Place  in  vege- 
table dishes  and  serve  hot  with  fresh  or  evaporated  milk  poured 
over  it. 

333.  Mush,  com  meal,  fried  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

7  pounds  com  meal. 

4  gallons  water. 

2  ounces  salt. 

2  ounces  sugar. 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  com  meal  mush;  pour  into  a  well- 
greased  bake  pan  to  a  depth  of  about  1  inch;  allow  to  cool;  cut  into 
pieces  about  2  inches  square;  roll  in  a  flour  batter;  and  fry  in  deep 
lard.    Serve  hot  with  sirup. 

This  preparation  may  be  improved  by  dipping  each  piece  in  an 
^g  batter  before  rolling  in  the  flour. 

334.  MiLsh,  oatmeal  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

5  pounds  oatmeal.  ^ 
\  pound  sugar.  ^ 
1  ounce  salt. 

6  cans  evaporated  milk. 
3^  gallons  water. 

Place  the  water  in  a  boiler  and  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil;  whip 
the  oatmeal  in,  slowly  adding  salt  and  sugar  and  boil  for  five 
minutes.    Let  simmer  one-half  hour  and  serve  with  milk  and  sugar. 

335.  Mu3h,  rolled  wheat  (for  60  men).  Pre|)ared  the  same  as  oat- 
meal mush  "using  5  pounds  of  rolled  wheat  instead  of  5  pounds  of 
oatmeal. 


168  MANUAL  FOR  ARMY  COOKS. 

336.  Prepared  breakfast  foods.    Follow  the  directions  given  on  the 
packages, 

SOUPS 

337.  Barley  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  gallons  beef  stock. 
3  pounds  barley. 
IJ^  pounds  chopped  onions. 
Mix  all  ingredients  well  and  boil  for  one  hour,  when  the  soup  will 
be  ready  to  serve.    Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Kegulate  the  amount 
of  beef  stock  so  that  when  tne  soup  is  ready  to  serve  there  will  be 
about  6  gallons. 

338.  Barley  arid  tomato  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

5^  gallons  beef  stock. 

3  pounds  barley. 

10  pounds  tomatoes. 

1  pound  diced  bacon. 
Mix  all  ingredients  well,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  allow  to  boil 
for  one  hour.  If  fresh  tomatoes  are  used  they  should  be  stewed  and 
pressed  through  a  colander  before  being  added  to  the  soup.  Regu- 
late the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve 
there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

339.  Bean  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

6  pounds  beans. 

7  to  9  gallons  water  or  beef  stock. 
5  pounds  soup  bone. 

1 J  pounds  bacon. 
Clean  and  wash  the  beans  well;  place  in  the  water  (or  beef  stock) 
in  a  boiler  near  the  center  of  the  range  and  allow  to  simmer  overnight. 
About  7  a.  m.  add  the  soup  bone  and  bacon;  boil  until  about  10 
o'clock,  or  until  the  beans  have  gone  to  pieces,  and  pass  through  a 
colander.  Place  on  the  range  again  and  allow  to  come  to  a  boil; 
regulate  the  amount  of  stock  or  water  so  that  when  the  soup  is  ready 


MANUAL  FOB  ARMY  COOKS.  169 

tx)  serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons;  thicken  with  a  flour  batter 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.    Serve  hot  with  hard  or  fresh  breaid. 

340.  Beef  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  gallons  beef  stock.  ♦ 

3  pounds  beef. 
1  can  tomatoes. 

1*  pounds  rice,  if  desired. 

1  Dunch  parsley,  if  desired. 
This  soup  may  be  made  to  best  advantage  on  dajrs  when  boiled 
beef  is  served .  After  boiling  the  beef  until  done  take  it  out  and  skim 
off  the  grease;  dice  the  beef  to  the  size  of  a  bean  and  add  the  water 
(or  stock);  add  the  tomatoes  and,  if  desired,  a  little  rice;  regulate 
the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the  soup  is  ready  to  be  served 
there  will  be  about  6  gallons.    Season  to  taste  and  serve  hot. 

341.  Chicken  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  gallons  beef  stock. 
10  pounds  chicken. 
1  pound  rice. 

4  ounces  parsley. 

After  dressing  boil  the  chicken  until  well  done;  remove  it  and 
take  out  the  bones;  place  the  bones  in  the  beef  stock  and  boil  for  one 
hour;  remove  the  bones  and  strain  the  stock;  dice  the  chicken  very- 
fine  and  place  in  a  boiler  with  the  beef  stock,  add  the  rice,  and  boil 
for  one-half  hour;  add  enough  stock  and  water  to  make  6  gallons; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Before  serving  place  a  Httle  parsley  in 
each  tureen. 

342.  Clam  chowder  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  quarts  clams. 
8  pounds  potatoes,  diced. 
1  pound  bacon,  diced  and  browned. 
10  quarts  beef  stock. 
i  pound  chopped  onions,  browned. 


170  MANUAL  FOB  ARMT   COOKS. 

Cook  the  potatoes,  bacon,  and  onions  in  the  beef  stock  until  well 
done,  add  the  clams,  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  thicken  slightly  with 
a  flour  batter  and  it  will  be  ready  to  serve.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
and  regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the  soup  is  ready 
to  serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

343.  Codfish  chowder  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

5  pounds  codfish,  shredded. 
1^  pounds  bacon,  diced. 

l|  pounds  onions,  chopped. 

6  pounds  potatoes,  diced. 

1  pound  hiard  bread. 

2  cans  evaporated  milk,  if  desired. 
6  gallons  beef  stock. 

Brown  the  bacon  and  onions  in  a  bake  pan  on  the  top  of  the  range; 
add  the  potatoes  and  codfish  and  cover  well  with  stock;  boil  until 
done,  about  20  minutes;  break  the  hard  bread  in  small  pieces  and 
toast  slightly  in  the  oven,  adding  to  the  chowder  after  the  potatoes 
are  done.  Then  add  the  milk,  if  it  is  desired,  and  season  to  taste. 
Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the  soup  is  ready  to 
serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

344.  Corn  chowder  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

3  No.  2  cans  com. 

1^  pounds  diced  bacon. 

\\  pounds  onions. 

6  pounds  potatoes,  diced.  ' 

4  gallons  beef  stock. 

2  cans  evaporated  milk. 

1  pound  hard  bread. 
Fry  the  bacon  and  onions  in  a  bake  pan  on  top  of  the  range  until 
brown;  add  the  potatoes  and  cover  with  stock;  boil  until  done;  break 
up  the  hard  bread  into  small  pieces;  toast  slightly  and  add  to  the 
chowder  when  the  potatoes  are  done;  add  the  milk  and  com,  but  do 
not  allow  to  boil;  season  to  taste.  Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock 
so  that  when  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  17L 

345.  Gream  of  cabbage  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

6  pounds  cabbage,  chopped  fine. 

6  gallons  beef  stock. 

2  1-pound  cans  evaporated  milk. 

1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 

1  pound  flour,  browned  in  the  fat. 
Boil  the  cabbage  about  15  minutes;  drain  the  water  off  and  add  the 
beef  stock;  cook  about  one  hour;  thicken  with  a  flour  batter,  and  just 
before  serving  season  with  white  pepper,  salt,  and  celery  salt,  and 
add  the  milk.  Emulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the 
soup  is  ready  to  serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

346.  Cream  of  celery  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
6  pounds  celery,  diced  fine. 
5  gallons  beef  stock. 
1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 

1  pound  flour,  browned  in  fat. 

2  1-pound  cans  evaporated  milk. 

Add  the  celery  to  the  beef  stock  and  boil  about  one  hour;  season 
with  white  pepper,  celery  salt,  and  salt;  thicken  with  batter  made 
of  the  fat  and  flour,  and  just  before  serving  add  the  milk.  Regu- 
late the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the  soup  is  ready  to 
serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

347.  Cream  of  tomato  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

5  gallons  beef  stock. 

4  No.  3  cans  tomatoes. 

2  1-pound  cans  evaporated  milk. 

1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 

1  pound  flour,  browned  in  fat. 
Add  the  tomatoes  to  the  stock  and  boil  from  one  and  one-half  to 
two  hours;  season  with  celery  seed,  mustard,  comina,  salt,  and 
I)epper;  thicken  slightly  with  aiiour  batter  and  add  the  milk  with  a 
pinch  of  soda.  Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  wnen  the* 
soup  is  ready  to  serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons.    Serve  hot. 


172  MANUAL   FOB   ARMY    COOKS. 

348.  Lentil  souv.  Prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  bean  soup, 
■substituting  lentils  for  beans. 

349.  Macaroni  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
3  pounds  macaroni. 
6  gallons  beef  stock. 
i  pound  chopped  onions,  browned  if  desired. 

1  pound  bacon,  browned  if  desired. 

Break  the  macaroni  in  pieces  about  1  inch  long  and  boil  in  the 
istock  about, 40  minutes,  seasoning  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the  soup  is  served 
there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

350.  Macaroni  and  tomato  soup  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same 
as  macaroni  soup,  except  three  No.  3  cans  tomatoes  are  added  with 
the  macaroni. 

351.  Noodle  soup  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  macaroni 
soup,  using  4  pounds  dry  noodles  instead  of  3  pounds  macaroni. 

To  prepare  the  noodles. — To  each  pound  of  flour  add  one-fifth  ounce 
ot  salt;  mix  with  milk  and  water  until  the  dough  is  stiff.  If  prac- 
ticable, add  two  eggs  to  each  pound  of  flour  used.  Roll  the  dough 
out  until  it  is  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  sprinkle  a  little  flour 
over  it  and  roll  it  up.  Cut  slices  from  the  end  of  the  roll  about  one- 
eighth  to  one-fourth  inch  thick  and  spread  on  a  board  or  cloth  in  the 
^un  to  dry.     The  noodles  thus  prepared  will  keep  indefinitely. 

352  Oxtail  soup  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used : 
8  pounds  oxtail,  chopped  into  one-half  inch  cubes. 
5  gallons  beef  stock. 

2  pounds  fried  carrots,  diced. 
2  poimds  fried  onions,  diced. 
2  rJo.  3  cans  tomatoes. 

1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 
1  pound  flour,  browned  in  fat. 
Add  the  oxtail,  carrots,  onions,  and  tomatoes  to  the  beef  stock,  and 
let  simmer  until  the  tails  are  well  done;  thicken  with  the  flour  batter. 


MANUAL    FOE   AEMY    COOKS.  173 

Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the  soup  is  ready  to 
be  served  there  will  be  about  6  gallons.  The  above  recipe  should 
produce  a  thick  soup  of  a  reddish  color.    Serve  hot. 

353.  Oyster  stew  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
12  No.  2  cans  oysters. 

5  gallons  beef  stock. 

3  1-pound  cans  evaporated  milk. 

i  bottle  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Drain  off  the  liquor;  thicken  the  beef  stock  slightly  with  the  flour 
batter,  and  add  the  liquor  from  the  oysters;  bring  to  a  boil;  season  to 
taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  boil  five 
minutes.  Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the  stew 
is  ready  to  serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons.  Add  the  oysters  just 
before  serving, 

354.  Pea  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

6  No.  2  cans  green  peas,  or  equivalent  of  fresh  peas. 
6  gallons  beef  stock. 

Allow  to  boil  10  minutes  if  canned  peas  are  used,  or  until  well 
done  in  the  case  of  fresh  peas.  Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so 
that  when  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

355.  Potato  chowder  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  com 
chowder,  except  that  no  corn  is  used,  and  10  pounds  of  potatoes  are 
used  instead  of  6  pounds. 

356.  Potato  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
10  pounds  potatoes,  diced. 
6  gallons  beef  stock. 
1  pound  onions,  chopped  and  browned. 
1  can  evaporated  milk. 
1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 
1  pound  flour,  browned  in  fat. 
Boil  the  potatoes  in  the  stock  until  well  done;  pass  through  a 
colander  and  let  come  to  a  boil  again;  thicken  with  the  flour  batter 


174  MANUAL    FOR   ARMY   COOKS. 

and  season  to  taste;  add  the  chopped  onions  and  evaporated  milk. 
Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that  when  the  soup  is  ready  to 
serve  there  will  be  about  6  gallons.    Serve  hot. 

357.  Puree  of  beans  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

6  pounds  issue  beans. 

6  gallons  beef  stock. 

5  pounds  soup  bone. 

^  pound  bacon,  diced  and  browned. 

1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 

1  pound  flour,  browned  in  fat. 
Place  the  beans,  bacon,  bone,  and  stock  in  the  boiler,  and  let  sim- 
mer over  night,  or  until  the  beans  are  thoroughly  broken  to  pieces. 
Pass  through  a  colander,  and  place  on  the  stove  again;  add  the  flour 
batter  and  season  to  taste;  allow  to  simmer  at  least  one  hour  before 
serving.  Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that,  when  the  soup 
is  ready  to  serve,  there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

358.  Puree  of  brown  beans  (for  60  men).  Prepared  same  as  pur^e 
of  beans,  except  use  6  pounds  brown  beans  in  place  of  6  pounds  issue 
beans. 

359.  Purie  of  carrots  (for  60  men).  Prepared  same  as  pur^e  of 
beans,  except  use  10  pounds  diced  carrots  braised  or  fried  in  a  little 
fat  until  brown  instead  of  6  pounds  of  beans. 

360.  Puree  of  green  peas  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  pur^e 
of  beans,  except  use  6  pounds  of  green  peas  instead  of  6  pounds  of 
beans. 

361.  Purie  of  green  peas  and  tomatoes  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the 
same  as  pur^  of  beans,  except  use  two  No.  3  cans  of  tomatoes  and  5 
pounds  of  green  peas  instead  of  6  pounds  beans. 

362 .  PurU  of  lima  beans  ( for  60  men) ,  Prepared  the  same  as  pur^e 
of  beans,  except  use  6  pounds  lima  beans  instead  of  6  pounds  of  issue 
beans.  (If  desired,  add  one  or  two  cane  of  evaporated  milk  just  be^ 
fore  serving.) 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  175 

363.  Purie  of  potatoes  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

12  pounds  potatoes,  diced  fine. 

6  gallons  beef  stock. 

1  pound  bacon,  diced  and  browned. 

1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 

1  pound  flour  browned  in  fat. 
Add  the  diced  potatoes  and  bacon  to  the  beef  stock  and  boil  until 
they  are  completely  broken  to  pieces,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  celery  salt,  etc.  A  stalk  of  celery  may  be  added  if  desired. 
Thicken  slightly  with  the  flour  batter,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 
Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that,  when  the  soup  is  ready  to 
serve,  there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

364.  Puree  of  split  peas  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  puree 
of  beans,  except  that  6  pounds  of  split  peas  are  used  instead  of  6 
pounds  of  beans.  (If  desired,  two  cans  of  evaporated  milk  may  be 
added  just  before  serving.) 

365.  Puree  of  vegetables  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  pur^e 
of  beans,  except  that  12  pounds  of  mixed  ".vegetables  are  used  in  place 
of  6  pounds  of  beans. 

366.  Rice  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
3  pounds  rice. 
6  gallons  beef  stock. 
^  pound  chopped  onions,  browned. 
1  pound  bacon,  diced  and  browned. 
Wash  the  rice  well;  then  add  it,  together  with  the  bacon  and  on- 
ions, to  the  stock,  and  allow  to  boil  for  one-half  hour. 

367.  i^mZ  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
3  pounds  flour. 
6  eggs. 

6  gallons  beef  stock. 
Rub  the  eggs  and  flour  together  in  the  hands  imtil  well  mixed; 
!  then  add  the  rivels  thus  made  to  the  stock  and  allow  to  boil  for  one- 


176  MANUAL  FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

quarter  of  an  hour.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt.    One  can  of  toma- 
toes may  be  added  if  desired. 

368.  Spaghetti  soup  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  macaroni 
soup,  except  use  3  pounds  of  spaghetti  in  place  of  3  pounds  of  maca- 
rom. 

369.  Split-pea  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  pounds  split  peas. 
6  gallons  beef  stock. 
1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  bacon,  diced  and  browned. 
Add  the  peas  and  the  bacon  to  the  beef  stock  and  let  simmer  over 
night,  thicken  with  a  flour  batter;  season  to  taste  and  serve  hot. 
Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that,  when  the  soup  is  ready 
to  serve,  there  will  1^  about  6  gallons. 

370.  Tomato  soup  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
3  gallons  tomatoes,  or 
8  No.  3  cans  tomatoes. 
3  gallons  beef  stock. 

1  pound  bacon. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  and  boil  for  one  and  one-half  hours; 
remove  the  bacon  and  press  the  soup  through  a  colander  to  separate 
the  skins  and  seeds  or  the  tomatoes.  Replace  on  the  range  and 
thicken  slightly  with  a  flour  batter;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
color  lightly  with  brown  sugar.  Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock 
so  that,  when  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve,  there  will  be  about  6  gallons. 

Overripe  or  bruised  tomatoes  may,  to  prevent  waste,  be  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  soup. 

371    T&mato  and  rice  soup  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used: 
3  cans  tomatoes. 

2  pounds  rice. 

5  gallons  beef  stock. 


MANUAL   FOE  ABMT   COOKS.  177 

Mix  all  in^edients  well;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  small 
piece  of  garlic;  allow  to  boil  from  one  to  two  hours,  when  it  will  be 
ready  to  serve.  Regulate  the  amount  of  beef  stock  so  that,  when 
ready  to  serve,  there  will  be  about  6  ^Uons. 

372.   Vegetable  soup  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used : 
1  pound  cabbage. 
^  pound  onions. 
1  pound  potatoes, 
i  pound  rice. 
1  can  tomatoes. 
1  ounce  chopped  parsley. 

5  gallons  beef  stock. 

Mix  all  ingredients  well;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper;  boil 
for  one  hour  or  more,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve.  Regulate  the 
amount  of  beef  stock  so  that,  when  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve,  there 
will  be  about  6  gallons.  The  parsley  should  generally  be  added  just 
before  serving.  Many  other  vegetables  may  be  substituted  for  those 
I  given  above. 

[!    373 .   Vermicelli  soup  (for  60  men) .    Prepared  the  same  as  macaroni, 
(except  use  3  pounds  of  vermicelli  instead  of  3  pounds  of  macaroni. 

374.   Welsh  rarebit  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used : 

6  gallons  beer,  or  beef  stock. 

6  poiinds  grated  cheese,  American  preferred. 

li  pounds  fat,  butter  preferred. 

IJ  pounds  flour,  browned  in  fat. 
Allow  the  beer  or  stock  to  come  to  a  boil ,  and  add  the  grated  cheese. 
Make  a  batter  of  the  butter  and  flour,  and,  when  smoking  hot,  add 
to  the  mixture.    Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.    Serve  in 
soup  tureens  with  crackers  or  croutons. 


MEATS. 


375.  Bacon,  bailed  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used: 
15  pounds  bacon. 


178  MANUAL   FOB  ABMT  COOKS. 

Cut  in  pieces  weighing  about  5  pounds  each,  wash  thoroughly, 
place  in  cold  water,  and  boil  for  two  hours. 

376.  Bacon,  fried  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
15  pounds  bacon. 
Cut  about  five  slices  to  the  inch ;  place  in  a  bake  pan  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  it  and  allow  to  stand  for  five  minutes.     Drain  off  all  the 
water  and  fry  on  a  hot  range  or  in  a  auick  oven ;  when  done,  remove 
from  the  range  and  allow  to  cool  sligntly  before  serving. 

377.  Bacon  and  cabbage  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

15  pounds  bacon,  sliced. 

30  pounds  cabbage. 

Wash  and  clean  the  cabbage;  place  in  the  boiler  with  sufficient 

water  to  cover  it;  place  bacon  on  top  of  the  cabbage;  boil  two 

hours.    To  prevent  discoloration,  the  ooiler  should  be  ventilated 

during  the  process  of  cooking.     Serve  hot  with  the  bacon  on  top  of 

the  cabbage. 

378.  Beefh  la  mode  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  beef  rounds,  bottom  preferred 
1  pound  bacon  or  pork. 
1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 
1  pound  flour,  browned  in  fat. 

3  gallons  beef  stock. 

1  pound  carrots,  diced. 

4  large  issue  pickles. 

2  cans  tomatoes. 
Cut  the  beef  into  slices  of  about  5  pounds  each  and  the  bacon  (or 

pork)  into  strips  about  the  size  of  the  little  finger  and  the  length  of 
the  pieces  of  beef;  roll  the  strips  of  pork  in  garlic  and  cayenne  pepper 
and  cut  slits  in  the  pieces  of  beef  with  a  narrow-bladed  knife  with 
the  grain  of  the  meat,  and  insert  about  four  of  these  strips  of  bacon 
with  slices  of  pickle  in  each  piece  of  beef.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  flour, 
fat,  and  beef  stock;  place  in  a  medium-hot  oven  and  cook  slowly  for 


MANUAL  FOR  ABMY   COOKS.  179 

about  three  hours,  or  until  well  done.  Remove  the  meat  and  slice 
across  the  grain,  replace  in  the  gravy,  and  cook  a  little  longer;  or 
slice  and  place  on  a  platter  with  the  gravy  poured  over  it,  in  which 
case  it  is  ready  to  serve.  It  should  be  served  with  hot  gravy.  The 
gravy  should  be  very  spicy;  therefore,  while  preparing  it  season 
well  with  garlic,  bay  leaves,  etc. 

379.  Beef,  hailed  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used : 

20  pounds  beef. 
Cut  into  pieces  weighing  about  5  pounds  each;  cover  with  boiling 
water  in  order  to  seal  it  and  retain  the  juices,  and  boil  from  two  to- 
three  hours,  according  to  the  quality  of  the  beef. 

380.  Beef,  braised  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
22  pounds  beef. 

1  pound  onions,  diced  and  browned. 

2  pounds  fat,  butter  preferred, 
i  pound  jflour. 

Dice  the  beef  into  1-inch  cubes;  place  the  fat  in  a  bake  pan  and 
allow  to  get  hot;  then  put  in  the  beef  and  onions;  put  on  top  of  the 
range  or  in  a  quick  oven  and  stir  frequently  for  about  20  minutes. 
Sift  the  dry  flour  in  and  cook  about  five  minutes;  add  sufiicient  beef 
stock  to  nearly  cover  the  meat  and  stir  frequently.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  cook  until  well  done. 

381.  Beef,  corned  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
4  gallons  water.  , 

2  pounds  sugar. 
8  ounces  saltpeter. 
16  ounces  salt. 
60  pounds  beef. 
Dissolve  and  boil  about  15  minutes;  pour  into  a  15-gallon  keg  and 
3dlow  to  cool.    The  brine  should  be  prepared  in  the  evening  so  that 


180  MANUAL   FOB   ARMY    COOKS. 

it  will  be  given  time  to  cool  thoroughly  before  the  meat  is  introduced. 
Cut  the  meat  in  pieces  weighing  about  5  pounds  each  and  probe 
each  piece  with  a  steel  at  1-inch  intervals  to  allow  the  brine  to  pene- 
trate all  parts.  Place  the  meat  in  the  brine  and  keep  at  a  temper- 
ature of  from  50°  to  60°  F.  from  seven  to  nine  days.  While  in  the 
brine  it  should  be  removed  at  least  three  times,  alternating  the 
upper  and  lower  pieces.  If  the  beef  used  is  not  refrigerated  beef, 
in  hot  weather  it  should  be  packed  in  cracked  ice  for  12  hours  before 
corning.  The  above  recipe  is  sufficient  for  corning  60  pounds.  See 
paragraph  223. 

To  make  spiced  corned  beef,  place  in  the  center  of  each  piece  of 
beef  a  small  piece  of  garlic,  and  add  to  the  brine  1  ounce  each  of 
cloves,  whole  peppers,  and  bay  leaves. 

To  cook,  use  the  recipe  for  boiled  beef, 

382.  Beef^  curry  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  beef. 
\\  ounces  curry  powder. 
Cut  the  beef  into  1-inch  cubes  and  place  in  a  bake  pan;  cover 
with  beef  stock  or  water;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  curry  powder. 
When  nearly  done,  thicken  slightly  with  a  flour  batter.     Serve  hot. 

383.  Beef  dressing  {for  00  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

6  pounds  meat  scraps  of  any  kind. 

8  pounds  bread. 

1  pound  onions,  browned. 

i  gallon  beef  stock,  f 

Run  the  meat  scraps  through  a  chopper;  soak  the  bread  in  colc^ 
water  and  squeeze  well  with  the  hands;  mix  the  meat  and  bread 
with  the  onions;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sage,  add  sufficient  bee" 
stock  to  make  about  the  same  consistency  as  hash;  and  spread  ' 
or  3  inches  deep  over  the  bottom  of  a  well-greased  pan.  Spre 
a  little  grease  over  the  top  and  bake  for  40  minutes  in  a  medium  ove 
Serve  hot  with  beef  and  gravy. 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  181 

384.  Beef,  chipped  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used  : 

15  pounds  chipped  beef. 

1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 
\\  pounds  flour,  browned  in  fat. 

2  cana  evaporated  milk. 

1  bunch  parsley. 
\  ounce  pepper. 

6  quarts  beef  stock. 

Melt  the  fat  in  the  pan  and  add  the  flour;  cook  a  few  minutes;  mix 
the  milk  and  beef  stock,  or  water;  stir  the  batter  in  slowly  to  pre- 
vent lumping;  add  the  beef  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Add  the 
parsley  and  serve  on  toast. 

If  the  beef  is  very  salty,  it  should  be  scalded  before  cooking. 

385.  Beef  fritters  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
10  pounds  cooked  beef. 

5  pounds  bread. 

2  pounds  onions. 

Soak  the  bread  and  remove  the  water  by  squeezing  with  the  hands; 
grind  the  meat  fine  and  add  to  the  bread;  mince  the  onions  and 
mix  all  together;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mold  into  cakes  of  about 
3  ounces  each;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep  grease  until  brown. 
Serve  hot  with  tomato  sauce  or  tomato  gravy. 

386.  Beef  hash  (for  6Q  men). 

Ingredients  usi'd : 
15  pounds  potatoes. 
2  pounds  onions. 
15  pounds  meat  scraps,  etc. 

6  quarts  beef  stock. 

Chop  the  whole  fine  and  add  the  beef  stock  until  the  mixture  ia 
of  the  consistency  of  ordinary  mush;  place  about  3  inches  deep  in  a 
well-greased  pan;  smooth  the  top  evenly  with  the  hand  and  grease 
slightly;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  1  ^  hours,  or  until  done. 

Scraps  of  beef  or  pork,  or  a  mixture  of  both,  or  corned  beef  may 
be  used  for  making  haah. 


182  MANUAL   FOE  ABMY   COOKS. 

In  hot  weather,  or  when  the  ingredients  have  been  held  over  for 
some  time,  the  hash  should  be  spread  not  more  than  2  inches  deep  in 
a  pan  and  first  placed  in  a  quick  oven,  about  10  counts,  until  the 
hash  is  thoroughly  heated  through,  about  20  minutes;  then  the  tem-  j 
perature  may  be  reduced  until  the  cooking  is  done.  '■ 

Beef  hash  with  green  peppers.  Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as 
beef  hash,  adding  2  or  3  pounds  of  green  peppers  chopped  about  the 
size  of  a  Lima  bean. 

387.  Beef  hearts,  stewed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

18  pounds  beef  hearts. 
1  No.  3  can  tomatoes. 
1  pound  onions,  fried. 

1  pound  flour. 

3  gallons  beef  stock. 
Make  a  gravy  of  the  flour  and  beef  stock  and  put  on  the  range; 
meanwhile  split  the  hearts  in  two  and  wash  them  thoroughly,  and 
when  the  gravy  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  onions,  tomatoes,  and  beef 
hearts.  Cook  m  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  range  until  done;  slice 
and  serve  on  a  platter  with  the  gravy  poured  over  them.  Season 
with  cloves,  allspice,  bay  leaves,  a  little  garlic,  pepper  and  salt 
while  cooking. 

388.  Beef  hearts,  stuffed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

18  pounds  beef  hearts. 
6  pounds  bread  crumbs. 

2  pounds  onions,  browned.- 
1  pound  bacon,  sliced. 

i  pound  fat. 
Wash  and  clean  the  hearts  and  allow  to  drain;  soak  the  bread 
crumbs,  squeeze  out  well,  and  mix  with  the  fried  onions.  Season 
the  mixture  with  thyme,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  stuff  the  holes  in  the 
hearts  with  this  dressing.  Place  the  hearts  in  a  bake  pan  with  a 
slice  of  bacon  on  top  of  each,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
After  the  hearts  have  become  somewhat  sealed,  so  aa  to  retain  the 
juices,  the  temperature  of  the  oven  should  be  gradually  reduced. 
Before  serving,  place  the  dressing  on  a  platter,  slice  the  hearts  thin, 
and  spread  over  the  dressing. 


MANUAL   FOE  ABMY   COOKS.  183 

389.  Beef  l6af{ior  60  men). 

Ingredients  used  : 
12  pounds  beef. 
3  pounds  bread  crumbs. 

2  pounds  onions,  browned. 
1  pound  flour. 

1  or  2  quarts  beef  stock, 
i  pound  bacon. 

Grind  the  meat  through  a  chopper;  soak  the  bread  in  water  and 
then  squeeze  out  well ;  mix  the  meat,  bread  crumbs,  and  onions  to- 
gether; season  with  salt  and  pepper;  make  into  loaves  about  the  shape 
of  an  egg  divided  lengthwise  and  place  in  a  bake  pan  a  few  inches 
apart.  Then  make  a  batter  of  the  flour  and  beef  stock,  rub  this  over 
the  loaves,  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven.  A  slice  of  bacon  may  be  placed 
on  the  top  of  each  loaf,  if  desired,  and  serve  hot  with  gravy. 

390.  Beefpotpie  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
15  pounds  beef. 
15  pounds  pptatoes.  » 

3  pounds  onions. 

2  pounds  lard, 
5  pounds  flour. 

Cut  the  beef  into  1-inch  cubes;  stew  until  nearly  done;  add  po- 
tatoes and  onions,  cut  into  about  1-inch  cubes.  When  nearly  done, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and  add  sufficient  stock  to  cover  vegetables 
and  meat  and  thicken  slightly  with  flour  batter.  When  done,  cover 
with  crust  made  of  the  lard,  flour,  and  baking  powder,  cut  out  like 
biscuits,  and  bake  until  done.  The  amount  of  beef  may  be  reduced 
to  10  pounds  and  vegetables  increased  accordingly. 

Any  kind  of  lean  meat — mutton,  veal,  venison,  young  goat, 
chicken,  wild  fowls,  and  rabbits — may  be  used  in  making  potpies. 

391.  Beef  pot  roast  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  beef. 
2  pounds  onions, 
^  pint  vinegar. 
1  clove  garlic. 


184  MANUAL  FOE  ABMY   COOKS. 

Cut  the  beef  into  pieces  weighing  about  5  pounds  each;  place  in  a 
lar^e  Dutch  oven,  or  camp  kettle,  with  cover;  season  well;  a<id 
onions  and  vinegar,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven,  about  12  counts,  :for 
about  20  minutes;  then  reduce  the  temperature  and  cook  slowly 
until  well  done.  The  meat  should  be  turi^ed  three  or  four  times 
while  cooking.  When  done,  remove  from  the  kettle  and  slice;  make 
a  thick  grav^'^  in  the  same  pot;  place  the  meat  on  the  platters  and 
pour  the  gravy  over  it.  Left  overs  from  this  recipe  may  be  used  in 
iiash,  potpies,  etc. 

392-  Btef,  roast  (for  60  men).  i 

Ingredients  used:  J 

25  pounds  beef.  .1 

1  quart  beef  stock. 
Cut  the  beef  into  pieces  weighing  about  5  pounds  each;  place  ini 
a  quick  oven  and  cook  for  about  one-half  hour;  then  dredge  with  salt,  1 
pepper  and  flour,  and  add  1  quart  of  beef  stock,  adding  more  later 
if  necessary.    The  roast  will  then  be  sealed  so  as  to  retain  the  juices 
and  the  temperature  of  the  oven  should  be  allowed  to  diminish 
gradually,  cooking  the  meat  slowly  from  one  to  two  hours  more. 
Baste  frequently  while  roasting.    Just  before  serving,  cut  into  thin 
slices,  across  the  grain,  and  retain  all  chunks  of  fat,  bones,  tendons, 
etc.,  as  they  will  not  be  consumed  if  served,  but  can  be  used  to  great 
advantage  in  the  kitchen.    Serve  hot  with  gravy. 

393.  Yorkshire  pudding  (for  60  men).  Roast  the  beef  in  the  usual, 
way.  When  it  is  done  pour  off  and  save  half  the  juice,  which  isj 
used  in  making  gravy.  ] 

Ingredients  used: 
6  pounds  flour. 
5  ounces  baking  powder. 
1  ounce  salt. 

Pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Mix  all  ingredients  dry;  add  sufficient  flour  and  water  to  make  a^ 
dough  somewhat  softer  than  used  for  biscuits.  Drop  the  dough  from  > 
the  hand  into  the  pan  in  which  the  beef  was  roasted,  keeping  each; 
handful  about  1  inch  apart.  Bake  in  a  medium  oven.  The  above  ;| 
recipe  will  be  improved  by  adding  two  to  six  egg^  to  each  pound  of 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  185 

flour  used;  whip  eggs  to  foam,  and  mix  in  well.     By  substituting 
milk  for  water  the  product  is  greatly  improved. 

394.  Beef  rolls  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

8  pounds  meat  scraps,  etc. 

3  pounds  bread  crumbs. 

5  pounds  flour. 

1  pound  onions,  browned. 

1  ounce  chili  pepper. 
Pass  the  meat  scraps  through  a  chopper;  soak  the  bread  crumbs  and 
squeeze  well;  mix  well  the  meat,  bread,  and  seasoning  of  salt,  onions, 
chili  pepper,  etc.  Make  a  pie  crust  or  rich  biscuit  dough  and  roll 
into  long  strips  as  for  apple  rolls.  Spread  the  meat  and  bread  mix- 
ture over  the  dough;  roll  up  in  lengths  equal  to  that  of  the  bake 
pan;  garnish  the  top  with  beaten  eggs;  and  oake  in  a  slow  oven. 

395.  Beef,  soft  roast  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  beef. 

1  pound  onions,  fried  brown. 

2  pounds  flour. 

Use  meat  from  the  chuck,  brisket,  shoulder,  or  other  inferior  part 
)f  the  carcass;  cut  into  5-pound  pieces;  make  a  gravy  of  beef  stock 
md  flour  batter;  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt;  put  the  meat  and 
)nions  in  the  gravy,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until  done.  The 
^avy  should  cover  the  meat  in  the  pan  about  one-half  inch,  the 
lame  as  in  the  preparation  of  beef  h.  la  mode.  Slice  the  meat  and 
lerve  on  a  platter,  with  hot  gravy  poured  over  it. 

396.  Beef,  Spanish  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  beef. 
2  No.  3  cans  tomatoes. 
5  pounds  onions,  chopped. 
Cut  the  beef  into  1^  inch  cubes;  fry  in  a  little  hot  fat  for  about 
ive  minutes;  pour  off  the  fat  and  add  the  tomatoes  and  onions. 


186  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

Add  sufficient  beef  stock  to  cover  the  meat;  thicken  with  a  flour 
batter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  allow  to  simmer  for  two 
hours.    Serve  hot. 

Scraps  of  cooked  meat  may  be  used  to  the  extent  of  one-half  of 
the  meat  component,  in  which  case  it  should  be  allowed  to  cook  for 
but  one-half  hour. 

397.  Beefsteak  potpie  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  beefsteak,  cut  small.  j 

7  pounds  flour.  I 

1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred.  ^ 
3  gallons  beef  stock. 

2  pounds  onions,  fried. 

Heat  the  fat  until  it  smokes;  add  1  pound  of  flour  (browned  in  the 
fat),  and  add  slowly  the  3  gallons  of  stock  or  enough  to  make  a  thin 
gravy;  then  add  the  onions.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt;  roll  the 
small  pieces  of  steak  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep  lard,  putting  each 
piece  in  the  gravy  immediately  after  it  is  fried.  Make  a  regular 
biscuit  dough  of  about  6  pounds  of  flour;  cut  out  the  biscuits;  place 
them  over  the  top  of  the  steak  and  gravy,  and  allow  them  to  brown  ; 
in  the  oven.    Serve  hot.  j 

Almost  any  quality  of  meat  may  be  utilized  in  this  recipe.  ' 

398.  Beefsteak  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  beefsteak,  with  bones  and  fat  removed.  i 

Cut  the  steaks  into  pieces  weighing  about  3  ounces  each,  and  if  \ 
tough  beat  each  piece  with  the  flat  side  of  a  cleaver;  place  a  small  j 
quantity  of  flour  in  a  dish  pan  and  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt;  t 
roll  each  piece  of  steak  well  in  the  flour  and  fry  in  deep  grease 
smoking  hot,  being  careful  not  to  cool  it  by  the  introduction  of  too 
much  meat  at  a  time.     The  total  amount  of  meat  frying  should  never  \ 
exceed  one-fourth  of  the  weight  of  the  grease.     Ilemove  the  steaks  . 
to  a  colander,  and  allow  to  drain  a  short  time.     If  necessary  the  fry- 
ing may  be  done  in  shallow  lard,  but  deep  lard  is  preferred. 


MANUAL   FOE   ARMY    COOKS.  187 

399.  Beefsteak  and  mushrooms  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  beefsteak,  without  bones  or  fat. 
6  No.  2  cans  mushrooms. 
1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  flour. 

Prepare  the  beefsteak  in  the  ordinary  manner;  place  the  butter 
n  a  frying  pan;  when  smoking  hot,  pour  the  flour  into  the  pan  and 
:tir  well  to  prevent  it  from  burning.  After  it  becomes  smooth  pour 
n  the  liquor  from  the  mushrooms,  beating  well  with  a  wire  whipper; 
tdd  the  diced  mushrooms  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Place  the  fried 
teak  on  the  platter  and  pour  the  mushrooms  and  gravy  over  the 
teak.     Serve  hot. 

400.  Beefsteak  and  onions  (for  60  men). 

Ingred  ients  used  : 
20  pounds  beefsteak,  without  bones  or  fat. 
12  pounds  onions,  sliced. 
1^  pounds  fat. 

2  quarts  beef  stock. 

Prepare  the  beefsteak  in  the  ordinary  manner.  Place  the  fat 
Q  a  large  bake  pan ;  add  the  sliced  onions  and  beef  stock,  season  well 
jrith  pepper  and  salt;  set  over  a  hot  fire  until  the  stock  is  entirely 
ivaporated,  when  the  onions  will  be  nearly  done;  allow  to  brown 
llightly,  stirring  frequently.  Serve  the  steak  on  a  platter  and 
lover  It  with  onions. 

401.  Beefsteak,  Hamburg  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  beef. 

3  pounds  onions. 

Run  the  meat  through  a  chopper  twice;  chop  the  onions  fine  with 
nives;  mix  well  and  seaeon  with  pepper  and  salt;  mold  into  steaks 
bout  3  inches  in  diameter  and  about  one-half  inch  in  thickness; 
)11  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep  lard.    Serve  hot  with  gravy. 


188  MANUAL   FOB   ARMY   COOKS. 

402.  Beef,  Turkish  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
18  pounds  beef. 
5  pounds  rice. 
1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 

1  pound  flour,  browned  in  fat. 

2  pounds  onions,  browned. 

3  gallons  stock.  , 
Make  a  batter  of  the  flour  and  fat,  adding  the  stock  and  onions  ^ 

make  a  gravy.  Cut  the  meat  in  1-inch  cubes;  season  with  cayenne 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  garlic;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep  lard. 
After  the  meat  is  fried,  put  immediately  in  the  gravy  and  allow  to 
simmer  for  two  hours.  While  cooking  it  may  be  necessary  to  add 
a  little  more  stock.  Meanwhile  boil  the  rice  (and  fry  if  desired) 
and  place  around  the  platter,  making  a  nest  in  the  center  intij) 
which  the  stew  is  poured.  ,j 

403.  Brains  and  eggs  (for  60  men).  1 

Ingredients  used  : 

15  pounds  beef  brains. 

2  pounds  bacon. 

2  pounds  onions,  chopped  fine. 

40  eggs. 

2  ounces  salt. 

i  ounce  pepper. 

Clean  and  wash  the  brains  well  and  dice  into  about  one-half  incl^ ! 
cubes;  dice  the  bacon  into  small  cubes  or  run  it  through  a  me^f 
chopper;  fry  the  bacon  and  onions  until  brown;  add  the  brains  a 
cook  until  nearly  done  (about  three-quarters  of  an  hour);  add  t 
eggs ,  beaten  slightly,  and  fry  about  10  minutes  more .    Season  with  sal 
and  pepper.    Serve  on  platters  covered  with  small  bits  of  dipp 
or  dry  toast,  if  desired. 

This  preparation  may  be  enriched  by  the  addition  of  more  e 
reducing  tne  amount  of  brains  in  proportion. 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  189 

404.  Brains  without  eggs  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used  : 
20  pounds  beef  brains. 

5  pounds  diced  onions. 
3  pounds  diced  bacon. 

After  washing  the  brains,  dice  them  into  about  one-half  inch 
ubes.     Fry  the  bacon  to  a  golden  brown  and  add  the  brains.     Cook 

n  the  oven  about  half  an  hour,  after  which  add  the  diced  onions 
nd  season  well  with  chili  powder  and  salt.     Cook  about  half  an 

^our  longer.    Serve  on  toast.    This  dislji  can  be  prepared  in  one 

lour  and  a  half  in  a  12-count  oven. 

405.  Chicken,  curry  of  (tor  60  men). 

Ingredients  used  : 
25  pounds  chicken. 
1^  ounces  curry  powder. 

6  pounds  rice. 

1  quart  flour  (if  desired  for  batter). 

Cut  each  chicken  into  about  10  or  12  pieces;  wash  well  and  place 
n  a  large  bake  pan,  covering  with  about  3  inches  of  water.  "^Tien 
reaches  the  boiling  point,  allow  to  simmer  two  hours  or  until 
lone.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  after  the  chicken  has  cooked  about 
n  hour.  Meanwhile  make  a  paste  of  the  curry  powder  and  about 
.  quart  of  broth  from  the  pan,  add  to  the  chicken  and  when  served 
."amish  the  platter  with  boiled  rice.  If  desired,  the  mixture  mav 
^e  thickened  by  the  addition  of  a  flour  batter. 

406.  Chicken  fricassee  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
25  pounds  chicken. 

2  pounds  butter. 
1  pound  flour. 

1  stalk  celery. 

12  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  cans  evaporated  milk. 

3  gallons  beef  stock. 


190  MANUAL   FOB   ARMY    COOKS. 

Divide  each  chicken  intx)  about  12  pieces,  natural  divisions. 
Make  a  gravy,  using  1  pound  butter,  1  pound  flour,  and  the  beef 
stock.  Pepper  and  salt  the  chicken  well;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in^ 
deep  lard;  and  put  it  in  the  gravv  when  fried.  Dice  the  celery" 
and  add  to  the  gravy;  season  well  with  celery  salt  and  allow  to 
simmer  until  done,  before  serving  add  2  cans  of  evaporated  milk 
and  1  pound  of  butter.  Care  should  be  taken  to  break  up  the 
chicken  as  little  as  possible.  When  adding  the  butter  and  milk, 
have  the  gravy  so  thick  that  the  butter  will  be  taken  up  by  it  and 
not  float  on  top.  Serve  on  a  platter,  with  or  without  rice.  Old 
fowls  may  be  utiUzed  to  good  advantage  in  this  recipe. 

407.  Chicken,  fried  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

45  pounds  chicken, 

6  eggs,  beaten. 

2  pounds  cracker  meal. 
Fowls  over  6  months  old  should  not  be  fried.  Divide  each 
chicken  into  about  10  pieces;  dip  each  piece  in  the  beaten  eggs  and 
then  in  the  cracker  dust,  and  if  the  mixture  does  not  adhere  to  the 
pieces  Buflficiently,  repeat  the  operation.  Frv  in  deep  lard  at  a 
smoking  temperature  until  brown.  Drain  well  in  a  colander  and 
place  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  or  on  the  mantel  of  the  range  to  keep  warm 
until  served. 

408.  ChickeTi,  roast  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

45  pounds  chicken. 

2  pounds  minced  onions,  browned. 

8  pounds  bread  crumbs. 

8  pounds  potatoes,  mashed. 

1  pound  nour. 

1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 
Pick  and  clean  chicken  well,  saving  the  heart,  liver,  and  gizzard 
which  should  be  chopped  fine  and  used  in  the  gravy  or  stufling. 
Fill  space  vacated  by  entrails  and  craw  with  stufimg.  Sew  up 
chicken  with  strong  thread  and  bend  the  wings  under  the  back 
and  tie  down  to  the  body.    Make  a  batter  with  the  flour  and  fat, 


MANUAL  FOB  ARMY  COOKS.  191 

seasoning  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  the  chicken  with  it  before 
placing  in  oven.  After  the  chicken  has  been  in  the  oven  about  20 
minutes,  add  a  little  hot  water  and  baste  frequently  until  done> 
This  generally  requires  about  two  and  one-halt  hours,  depending 
upon  the  quality  of  the  fowl.  When  the  flour  is  brown  check  the 
heat.  When  done  the  legs  can  be  easily  separated  from  the  body. 
To  make  the  stujfing. — Moisten  the  bread  crumbs  with  water;  mix 
with  potatoes,  onions,  and  giblets;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
sage,  tnyme,  or  other  flavors;  stuff  well  into  the  chicken.  The  bread 
may  be  soaked  in  oyster  liquor  and  oysters  added  to  the  stuflfing;. 
or  celery,  currants,  or  raisins  may  be  used  instead  of  onions.  Lemon 
juice  or  nuts  may  be  added.  This  stuffing  may  be  used  with  any 
fowl  or  fish. 

409.  Chicken  stew  with  dumplings  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

25  pounds  chicken. 

15  pounds  potatoes,  diced. 

5  pounds  flour  for  dimiplings. 
Cut  each  chicken  into  10  or  12  pieces  and  place  in  sufficient  hot 
water  to  cover  it;  boil  until  nearly  done.  Then  thicken  the  stew 
slightly  with  a  flour  batter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  dough 
for  the  dumplings  and  allow  to  cook  10  or  15  minutes,  depending 
on  the  size  of  the  dumplings.  If  desired,  the  amount  of  dumplings, 
may  be  increased  and  the  amount  of  chicken  correspondingly  re- 
duced.   Time  to  prepare,  about  two  and  one-half  hours. 

410.  C%iZi  con  cam€  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
15  pounds  meat  scraps. 
3J  ounces  chili  peppers,  ground. 
3|  quarts  beans,  chili. 
Trim  all  the  fat  from  the  meat  and  chop  into  half-inch  cubes; 
place  in  a  bake  pan  and  fry  in  the  same  manner  as  beefsteak,  but- 
using  a  smaller  amount  of  fat;  cover  with  about  1  inch  of  beef  stock* 
add  the  ground  chili  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.    Run  two- thirds  ol 
boiled  cmli  beans  througn  a  meat  chopper  and  mix  all  together; 


192  MANUAL   FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

then  add  the  remaining  third  of  the  beans  whole.  While  cooking 
it  may  be  necessary  to  add  more  beef  stock  to  replace  that  lost  by 
evaporation.  When  ready  to  serve,  there  should  be  suflBcient  beef 
stock  to  cover  the  preparation.  Baked  beans  may  be  substituted 
for  chili  beans. 

411 .  Duck,  roast  (for  60  men) .    Prepared  the  same  as  roast  chicken. 

412.  Garae,  small.  Pigeons,  doves,  etc.,  should,  for  Army  messes, 
be  made  into  potpies.  They  are  prepared  in  the  form  of  a  stew 
.and  served  on  a  platter  over  toast. 

413 .  Goose,  roast  (for  60  men) .    Prepared  the  same  as  roast  chicken. 

414.  Ham,  boiled  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  ham. 
Wash  and  scrape  the  ham,  removing  anv  part  that  may  be  decayed. 
The  water  in  which  hams  are  cooked  should  never  be  allowed  to 
reach  the  boiling  point.  Hams  may  be  cooked  five  hours  at  200°  F. 
or  seven  hours  at  180°  F.  Absolute  cleanliness  of  meats,  water, 
and  cooking  vessels  must  be  the  rule.  Too  much  cooking  and  too 
little  are  both  to  be  avoided.  Place  hams  in  near  boilmg  water 
5  or  10  minutes,  after  which  reduce  the  water  to  a  tepid  temperature 
by  the  introduction  of  cold  water,  then  heat  to  180*^  F.  and  keep  at 
that  temperature  until  the  hams  are  cooked.  This  process  requires 
about  20  minutes  to  the  pound .  Hams  thus  cooked  are  practically 
steamed,  as  the  moisture  m  the  flesh  is  converted  into  vapor  and  the 
steaming  process  is  taking  place  in  the  meat  all  the  time.  Skim 
all  the  impurities  from  the  water  as  they  arise.  Let  the  hams  cool 
in  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked. 

415.  fl'am,/n^rf  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
25  pounds  ham. 
Trim  off  most  of  the  fat  and  slice  thin;  if  salty,  parboil;  fry  in  its  ^ 
own  grease  in  the  oven  or  on  the  top  of  the  range. 


MANUAL   FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  193 

416.  Hash,  chop  suey  (for  60  men). 

Ingredienta  used : 
4  pounds  fat  bacon,  chopped  fine. 
1  gallon  onions,  chopped  fine. 
10  pounds  cooked  beef,  coarsely  ground. 
10  pounds  turnips,  cooked  and  chopped. 

3  cans  com. 

1  ounce  chili  powder. 

1  gallon  soup  stock. 

2  cans  tomatoes. 

Place  the  bacon  in  a  large  bake  pan  and  put  in  the  oven  until  well 
rendered;  add  the  onions  and  fry  until  naif  done;  add  the  other 
ingredients  and  bake  for  one  hour. 

417.  Head  cheest  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

20  pounds  beef. 

10  pounds  pork. 
'  Use  any  kind  of  beef  scraps;  of  the  pork,  use  snout,  ears,  skin, 
feet,  etc.  Place  in  separate  pots  and  boil.  When  the  pork  is  done, 
remove  and  pass  through  a  meat  chopper,  allowing  the  beef  to  con- 
tinue boiling  until  well  done.  Remove  the  beef  and  dice  in  one- 
half  inch  cubes;  mix  the  whole  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  vine- 
gar, and  cloves,  adding  sufficient  stock  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked 
to  give  it  the  consistency  of  a  thick  stew.  Replace  on  the  range, 
boil  five  minutes  longer,  and  pour  in  a  pan  about  4  inches  deep; 
cool  in  a  temperature  of  50°  to  60°  F.,  and  it  will  be  ready  to  serve 
the  next  day. 

418.  Liv.er  and  bacon  in  gravy  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
15  pounds  liver. 
8  pounds  bacon. 
6  pounds  onions,  browned. 
2  pounds  flour. 

4  gallons  stock. 


194  MANUAL   FOB  ABMT   COOKS. 

Slice  the  bacou  thin  and  wash  in  boiling  hot  water,  not  allowing  it 
to  remain  in  the  water  more  than  five  minutes;  fry  quickly  until 
medium  well  done.  Roll  the  slices  of  liver  in  flour  and  fry' in  the 
fat  left  after  frying  the  bacon;  add  the  liver  and  bacon  to  the  stock 
and  bring  to  a  boil;  thicken  slightly  with  a  flour  batter;  add  the 
onions  and  salt  to  taste.    Serve  hot. 

419.  Mutton,  boiled  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  beef. 
Mutton  is  usually  used  for  roasts  or  stews. 

420.  Mutton  chops  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  mutton  loin. 
Cut  in  slices  weighing  from  2  to  4  ounces,  roll  in  flour,  com  meal,  or 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  the  same  as  beefsteak.    Serve  hot.    Generally 
served  for  breakfast  or  supper. 

421.  Mutton  potpie  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  beef  pot- 
pie,  except  use  15  pounds  of  mutton  instead  of  beef. 

422.  Mutton,  roast  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  beef  roast, 
except  use  25  pounds  of  mutton  instead  of  beef,  and  cook  thoroughly 
done. 

423.  Mutton  stew  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

15  pounds  mutton. 

20  pounds  potatoes. 

4  pounds  onions. 

Cut  the  mutton  into  1-inch  cubes;  add  sufficient  beef  stock  or  cold 

water  to  iust  cover  the  mutton;  allow  to  simmer  slowly  for  one  and 

one-half  hours,  or  until  the  mutton  is  done;  add  the  vegetables,  and 

cook  until  done;  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  thicken 

slightly  with  a  flour  batter.    Serve  hot,  with  or  without  dumplings. 

424.  OTuelet  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
120  eggs. 

4  cans  evaporated  milk. 
1  pound  drippings. 


MANUAL  FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  195 

I    Mix  the  eggs  and  evaporated  milk;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  add 

il  quart  of  water  and  whip  well;  put  1  pound  of  bacon  drippings  or 

JDtner  fat  into  the  bake  pan,  and  when  the  fat  begins  to  smoke  pour  in 

ithe  mixture  (not  more  than  3  inches  deep)  and  bake  in  a  medium 

pven. 

I    Cheese  omelet. — Add  to  the  mixture  before  cooking  about  3  poimds 

id!  diced  cheese. 

Ilain  omelet. — Add  to  the  mixture  before  cooking  about  3  pounds 
di  finely  chopped  cooked  ham. 

Tomato  omelet. — Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  the  plain  omelet, 
mbstituting  two  small  cans  of  tomatoes  for  the  water. 

425.  Pigs,  little,  roasted  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used: 
40  pounds  little  pigs. 
,    Clean  the  pigs  and  scrape  off  the  hair,  stuff  with  an  ordinary  dress- 
;ing,  and  sew  up.     Slit  the  throat,  and  pass  the  forelegs  through  to  the 
ront;  double  the  hind  legs  under,  the  pig  lying  down  on  its  stomach. 
Season  well  on  the  outside.     If  practicable,  place  in  a  pan  so  that  no 
■)art  of  the  pig  projects  above  the  top.     Pour  into  the  pan  about  1 


inch  of  beef  stock.  Roll  out  a  dough  made  of  water  and  flour  and 
jpread  over  the  pig,  moistening  the  sides  of  the  pan  with  water  so 
that  the  crust  will  adhere  to  it.    Bake  slowly  three  or  four  hours. 

426.  Pickled  pigsfeet  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
25  pounds  pigsfeet. 
These  are  purchased  ready  to  serve  cold  and  are  well  liked  if  not 
served  too  often.     They  may  be  rolled  in  batter  and  fried  to  a  golden 
brown. 

427.  Pork  chops  and  steaks  (for  GO  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  lean  pork. 
Cut  into  pieces  about  one-half  inch  thick  and  weighing  from  3  to  5 
Dimceseacn;   fry  in  the  same  manner  as  beefsteak  until  done.     Or 
they  may  be  breaded  in  floiu*  or  com  meal  and  fried.    Serve  hot  with 


196  MANUAL   FOR   ABMY    COOKS. 

sauce  (tomato  preferred)  or  some  kind  of  salad.  After  trimming  the" 
iat  from  the  hog,  about  three-fourth  of  the  meat  can  be  cut  into  chops 
and  steaks. 

428.  Pork,  corned,  with  cabbage  {iot  60  men); 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  corned  pork. 
25  pounds  cabbage. 
Wash  and  clean  the  cabbage ;  place  in  a  boiler  with  sufficient  water 
to  cover  the  cabbage;  place  about  one-third  of  the  pork  on  top  of  the 
cabbage,  cooking  the  remainder  in  a  separate  boiler.    Allow  all  to 
simmer  about  two  hours.    To  prevent  discoloration,  the  boiler  should 
be  ventilated  during  the  process  of  cooking.    Serve  hot,  the  pork 
being  sliced  and  placed  on  top  of  the  cabba^. 

429.  Porh,  roast  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
25  pounds  lean  pork. 
Cut  into  pieces  weighing  about  5  pounds  each;  make  slits  along 
the  sides  of  each  piece  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  deep  and  one-half 
inch  apart;  place  in  a  medium  hot  oven  and  cook  until  well  done, 
about  two  and  one-half  hours.  Season  to  taste  while  cooking  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar.    Slice  and  serve  hot  with  apple  sauce. 

430.  Pudding,  English  beef  {ioi  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
12  pounds  beef. 
8  pounds  flour. 
8  ounces  baking  powder. 

1  pound  lard. 

2  ounces  salt. 

Run  the  meat  through  the  chopper  twice.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  two  cloves  of  garlic.  Braise  in  fat.  Make  a  dough 
somewhat  stiffer  than  a  bisquit  dough,  with  the  flour,  baking  powder, 
lard,  and  salt.  Roll  out  the  dough  one-fourth  inch  thick  and  20 
inches  wide;  spread  meat  over  the  top  about  the  same  thickness  as 
the  dough.  Roll  uj)  the  meat  in  the  dough  as  though  it  were  a  jelly 
roll,  rolUng  a  little  tighter.     Have  six  duS  cans  well  greased  and  cut 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  197 

the  roll  in  such  lengths  as  to  fill  the  cans  about  three-fourths  full. 
Steam,  same  as  plum  duff,  from  five  to  six  hours.  After  the  cans  are 
removed  from  the  boiler  allow  them  to  stand  about  10  minutes  before 
emptying.     Serve  with  brown  or  onion  gravy. 

431.  Sausage,  bologna,  vnih  casings  removed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  bologna  sausage. 
Slice  about  1  inch  thick;  dip  in  batter  and  fry  in  deep  lard;  serve 
hot;  or  slice  an  inch  thick;  braise  with  onions  in  the  oven;  serve  hot. 
It  may  also  be  served  cold  with  salad  or  made  into  sandwiches.  It 
is  cheaper  than  beef  and  will  be  relished  if  prepared  not  oftener  than 
once  a  week. 

432.  Sausage,  liver,  with  casings  removed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  poimds  liver  sausage. 
This  generally  comes  in  small  casings.  If  in  this  form  cut  about  2 
inches  m  length,  remove  casings,  dip  in  e^  batter,  roll  in  crumbs 
or  cracker  dust,  then  fry  in  deep  lard.  When  supplied  in  large 
casings  it  is  better  to  cut  it  in  half-inch  slices,  and  prepare  in  the 
same  manner.  It  may  be  served  with  a  salad,  or  bologna,  for  sand- 
wiches. Blood  sausage  may  be  prepared  and  served  in  the  same 
manner. 

\    433.  Sausage  pork,  65-pound  mixture. 
Ingredients  used : 

40  pounds  pork. 

25  pounds  beef. 

1^  pounds  salt. 

6  ounces  black  pepper. 

1  ounce  coriander. 

1^  ounce  sage. 

1  pint  vine^r. 

1  clove  garhc. 
Dice  the  pork  in  l^-inch  squares.    Grind  the  beef  and  mix  with 
the  pork,  add  seasoning  and  mix  well;  then  grind  again.     The  more 
thoroughly  the  sausage  is  mixed  the  better  it  will  be. 


198  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY  COOKS. 

This  should  stand  three  days  in  a  temperature  under  60°  F.  before 
being  used. 

434.  Sausage,  porky  in  blankets  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  link  sausages. 
1  egg  beaten. 
1  pound  lard. 

3  pounds  flour. 
1  ounce  salt. 

Make  a  dough  of  the  three  last-named  articles  and  roll  out  as  foi 
pie  crust;  inclose  each  link  separately,  or  two  links  in  one  piece  oi 
aough;  garnish  with  the  egg  and  a  little  water  and  bake  until  a 
delicate  brown. 

435.  Sausage,  Vienna  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  Vienna  sausage. 
Place  in  boiling  water,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil  after  introducing 
them,  as  this  causes  the  skins  to  crack  and  look  unsightly  when 
served  and  injures  the  flavor.  Long  cooking  also  injures  the  quality 
and  sausages  should  not  be  put  into  the  water  more  than  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour  before  serving. 

Sausage,  Vienna,  in  blankets. — Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  pork 
sausage,  or  fry  in  deep  lard  if  desired. 

436.  Stew,  pan  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
15  pounds  beef,  cooked  and  diced. 
15  pounds  potatoes,  boiled  and  diced. 

4  pounds  onions,  chopped. 

Mix  the  beef,  potatoes,  and  onions  and  season  well .  Put  in  a  well- 
greased  bake  pan,  spreading  to  a  depth  of  about  3  inches;  add  suffi- 
cient beef  stock  to  cover  the  mixture;  bake  in  a  medium  oven  until 
nicely  browned.  When  it  is  introduced  into  the  oven,  the  mixtiu*e 
should  resemble  somewhat  a  hash.  It  should  not  be  as  watery  as 
the  ordinary  stew.  All  potatoes  left  over,  except  those  fried,  may 
be  utilized  in  this  stew.  Left  over  parts  of  roasts  and  broth  gravy 
may  be  used. 


I 


MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS.  199 

437.  Stew,  el  rancho  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
12  pounds  meat,  fresh,  without  bone  and  but  little  fat, 

cut  in  about  IJ-inch  cubes. 
10  pounds  potatoes. 

2  cans  tomatoes,  or 

6  pounds  fresh  tomatoes. 

3  pounds  carrots,  quartered  lengthwise. 

4  pounds  turnips,  sliced  across  grain. 

4  pounds  cabbage,  with  core  in  cabbage.  Cut  from  top  to 
Dottom,  in  quarters  or  eighths,  depending  on  size  of 
head. 

3  pounds  onions,  small  preferred,  whole. 
Place  the  meat  and  such  vegetables  as  turnips,  carrots,  and  toma- 
toes in  a  large  pan  of  cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil.  Let 
(rimmer  until  the  meat  is  tender  and  then  add  the  remaining  vegeta- 
bles, season  with  salt,  chili  Colorado,  comina,  and  oregano,  and  cook 
until  done.  All  ingredienta  should  be  thoroughly  cooked  but  not 
broken  into  pieces  in  the  cooking.  The  liquid  should  cover  all  the 
^lids  by  about  an  inch.  It  should  not  be  pasty,  but  of  the  nature 
of  broth  gravy,  and  have  a  reddish  hue  from  the  chili  pepper  and 
tomatoes.  Tne  stew  is  improved  by  a  bunch  of  parsley  cnopped 
fine  and  added  just  before  serWng,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  may  be 
used  for  garnishing.  Serve  hot  with  vegetables  whole  as  far  as  pos- 
aible.    Any  fresh  meat  and  any  vegetable  may  be  used  in  this  stew. 

438.  Spareribs  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
4W0  pounds  spareribs. 
Cut  into  pieces  of  about  three  ribs  each.  Wash  clean  and  place  in 
boiler,  pour  over  them  sufTicient  water  to  just  cover;  let  them  come 
*A)  a  boil,  then  drain  off  the  water.  Place  in  a  bake  pan  about  3 
jiches  deep;  highly  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  sage,  stir 
dnd  baste  frequently.  The  oven  should  not  be  quite  as  hot  as  for 
oeef.  The  ribs  should  be  cooked  well  done.  They  may  be  par- 
wiled,  rolled  in  egg  batter,  and  then  fried  in  deep  grc^iso.  They 
nay  also  be  served  with  sauerkraut;  add  the  ribs  about  an  hour 
>efore  the  kraut  is  done;  thoroughly  mix  with  the  kraut  to  impart  a 
>etter  flavor. 


200  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

439.  Stew,  chop  suey  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
15  pounds  meat,  cut  in  strips  one-fourth  inch  thick  and 

1  inch  long. 
10  pounds  onions,  sliced. 
4  stalks  celery,  sliced  crosswise. 
^  pint  barbecue  sauce. 

2  gallons  beef  stock. 

Braise  meat,  then  add  stock;  let  simmer' from  one-half  to  two 
hours.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving  £ldd  onions,  celery,  and  sea- 
soning.   This  should  be  served  with  5  pounds  of  rice. 

Barbecue  sauce  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used : 
1  pound  onions,  browned  to  a  crisp. 

3  ounces  salt. 

1  quart  vinegar. 

1  ounce  ginger,  nutmeg,  allspice,  all  combined. 

f  ounce  red  pepper. 

1  can  tomatoes. 

1  ounce  saltpeter. 

Mix  all  the  above  ingredients.  Bum  enough  sugar  to  blacken  1^ 
quarts  of  water;  it  must  be  very  black.  Pour  the  blackened  water 
over  the  whole  and  let  come  to  a -boil.  Set  in  a  cold  place  and, 
after  the  mixture  has  cooled,  add  2  ounces  of  sugar.  It  costs  about 
20  cents  to  make  1  gallon  of  this  sauce. 

440.  Stew,  beef,  Irish  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
15  pounds  beef. 
13  pounds  potatoes,  peeled. 

2  pounds  onions.  \ 
^  pound  flour. 

Select  cuts  of  beef  suitable  for  stewing  and  boiling;  dice  into  half  , 
inch  cubes,  or  smaller,  cutting  all  about  the  same  size.     Place  in 
cold  water  and  bring  all  to  the  boiling  point  slowly.    Cook  at  a  ^ 
simmering  temperature  until  well  done.    Dice  the  potatoes  into 

i 
i 


MANUAL    FOE   ARMY    COOKS.  201 

l-inch  cubes,  chop  the  onions  and  add  both  to  the  meat.  It  may  be 
necessary  to  add  beef  stock  or  water,  which  should  cover  the  ingre- 
dients in  the  pan  about  1  inch.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
thicken  with  batter  made  of  flour,  stew  slowly  until  the  vegetables 
are  thoroughly  done.  The  stew  will  be  improved  by  the  addition 
of  2  pounds  of  diced  carrots  or  turnips,  or  2  cans  of  tomatoes.  To 
make  a  pot  pie  out  of  this,  add  the  dough  for  the  covering  soon  after 
the  vegetables  come  to  a  boil.  Bakeinal5-countoven.  To  improve 
the  appearance,  the  dough  may  be  washed  with  a  beaten  egg,  which 
will  give  it  a  golden  brown  color.  With  the  above  recipe,  many 
kinds  of  fillings  and  condiments  may  be  used.  Serve  hot  in  soup 
tureens. 

441.  Turkey,  roast  (for  60  men).  Prepared  the  same  as  roast 
chicken,  using  40  pounds  of  turkey. 

442.  Tamales  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
8  pounds  meat  scraps. 

1  pound  com  meal. 
5  pounds  flour. 

5  pounds  mashed  potatoes. 

2  ounces  salt. 

Run  the  meat  through  a  chopper  and  season  with  salt,  chili  pepper, 
oregano,  comina  seed,  and  garlic;  moisten  with  beef  stock.  Mean- 
while, make  a  ^tiff  dough,  using  the  flour  and  potatoes.  Tak  e 
about  one-third  of  the  dough  and  roll  out  on  the  table  about  the 
thickness  of  pie  crust,  using  the  corn  meal  for  dusting;  trim  it  on 
the  side  toward  you  and  lay  on  the  edge  a  roll  of  the  mixture  a  little 
larger  than  the  little  finger;  roll  the  dough  about  the  meat  and, 
when  it  meets,  moisten  slightly  with  water  to  make  it  hold  together. 
Then  cut  from  the  sheet  of  dough  remaining  and  repeat  the  opera- 
tion. Cut  the  roll  in  pieces  about  as  long  as  sausages  and  fry  in 
deep  lard.     Serve  hot  with  chili  sauce. 

443 .  Turkish  stew  (for  60  men) . 

Ingredients  used : 

18  pounds  raw  lean  meat 
5  pounds  rice. 


202  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 

Dice  the  meat  into  1-inch  cubes,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  brown  in  a 
little  greas3.  Brown  a  few  onions  and  add  to  the  meat,  cover  the 
whole  with  beef  stock  and  season  with  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  parsley, 
and  a  little  garlic.  Cook  slowly  on  top  of  the  range,  or  in  the  oven, 
for  about  two  hours.  Boil  the  rice  until  the  grains  may  be  crushed 
between  the  fingers,  but  still  retain  their  original  form;  drain  off 
all  the  water;  make  a  border  of  rice  around  the  platter,  leaving  a 
crater  into  which  the  stew  is  poured.    Serve  hot. 

444.  Veal  cutlets  (ioT  60  men) . 

Ingredients  used : 
25  pounds  veal. 
Cut  in  slices  weighing  from  2  to  4  ounces,  roll  in  flour,  fry  the  same 
as  beefsteak.     Serve  hot. 

445.  Veal  roast  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
25  pounds  veal. 
Prepared  same  as  beef  roast,  except  it  must  be  cooked  thoroughly 
done. 

446.  Venison  cutlets  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
25  poimds  venison. 
Prepared  the  same  as  veal  cutlets. 

447.  Venison  roast  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
25  pounds  venison,  ham  preferred. 

Cut  into  pieces  weighing  about  5  pounds  each;  lard  well  every  2 
inches,  the  strips  of  fat  being  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and,  if  desired,  a  little  garlic,  and  roast  in  the  same  manner  as  beef, 
except  that  it  should  always  be  well  done.  Serve  hot  with  gravy- 
poured  over  it. 

Other  parts  may  be  roasted  in  the  same  manner,  but  will  require 
less  cooking,  according  to  the  size  of  the  pieces.  Parts  not  suitable 
for  roasts  may  be  utilized  in  steaks,  hash,  stews,  fritters,  etc. 


MANUAL   FOE   ARMY    COOKS.  203 

SAUCES  FOR   MEATS. 

448.  Cranberry  sauce  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
j  10  quarts  cranberries, 

i  2^  pounds  sugar. 

Wash  and  boil  the  berries  well;  put  in  a  clean  boiler  with  about  1 
nch  of  water;  cover  tightly  and  boil  until  the  berries  break  to  pieces 
vnd  cover  themselves  with  their  juice ;  remove  the  lid  and  let  simmer 
n  order  to  dry  them  out.  Sweeten  with  sugar,  boil  about  five 
ninutes.  and  pour  into  an  earthen  or  wooden  vessel  and  cool.  Serve 
-•old  with  chicken  or  turkey,  or  nearly  any  kind  of  meat  or  cake. 

449.  Giblets  sauce  or  gravi/.  This  should  be  made  only  when 
)Oultry  is  being  prepared.  Take  the  hearts  and  livers  of  the  fowls 
.nd  boil  about  15  minutes;  cut  up  fine  and  add  to  the  gravy  in  the 
.an  in  which  the  fowls  are  roasting.  Season  with  thyme,  sage, 
:epper,  and  salt,  or  celery  salt,  if  desired.  May  be  thickened 
vith  a  flour  batter. 

450.  Rheuharh  sauce. 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  rhubarb. 
Wash  the  rhubarb  well  and  dice  in  one-half  inch  cubes  and  place 
n  a  clean  boiler  with  about  1  inch  of  water;  cover  tightly  and  let 
team  slowly  for  about  one  and  one-half  hours.  Then  remove  the 
id  and  allow  the  water  to  evaporate  for  about  an  hour.  Season 
nth  sugar  and  serve  with  cake  or  meat,  or  use  for  filling  pies. 

451.  Tomato  sauce. 

Ingredients  used: 
(i  cans  tomatoes. 
1  pound  onions,  chopped. 
^  ounce  cinnamon. 

1  ounce  cloves. 
3  chili  pods. 

2  ounce.s  salt. 

2  ounces  sugar. 
i  pound  butter. 
i  pound  flour. 


204  MANUAL  FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

Boil  slowly  all  the  ingredients,  except  tbe  flour  and  butter,  in  2 
quarts  of  water  for  one  and  one-half  hours.  Remove  from  the 
range  and  run  through  a  fine  colander  or  sieve.  Replace  on  the 
range  and  put  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan.  When  it  becomes  hot,  add 
the  flour,  stir  until  smooth,  and  add  to  the  sauce.  Excellent  for 
fish,  meats,  or  croquettes.    About  1  gallon. 

FISH. 

452.  Raked  fish  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
30  pounds  fish. 
2  pounds  bacon  or  salt  pork. 
Pish  weighing  from  5  pounds  upward  are  preferred.     Dress  and 
place  in  a  bake  pan  with  three  or  four  slices  of  bacon  over  each 
nsh,  and  about  1  inch  of  water  in  the  pan;  season  well  with  pepper 
and  salt;  place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  one  hour,  basting  frequently - 
and  allowing  the  oven  to  cool  gradually  while  baking. 

If  desired,  the  entrails  may  be  withdrawn  from  beneath  the  gills 
without  cutting  the  belly  open,  and  the  fish  filled  with  stuffing 
made  by  the  recipe  given  in  paragraph  408. 

453.  Boiled  fish  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
30  pounds  fish. 
Fish  weighing  from  5  pounds  upward  are  preferred.  Take  a 
large  bake  pan  half  full  of  boiling  water  and  place  in  a  hot  oven; 
place  the  fish  in  the  water,  add  a  little  salt  and  bring  to  a  boil  soon 
as  possible,  using  only  sufficient  water  to  barely  cover  the  fish. 
Allow  to  simmer  until  the  meat  may  be  easily  separated  from  the 
bone,  ordinarily  about  one  hour.  Should  be  served  with  a  cream 
sauce,  or  with  butter  melted  over  it.  May  be  spiced  to  give  any 
desired  flavor. 

454.  Codfish,  salt,  boiled  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  salt  codfish. 


MANUAL   FOB  ABMT   COOKS.  205 

Break  the  fish  into  pieces  weighing  about  2  ounces  each;  allow 
to  boil  for  15  minutes  to  remove  the  salt,  change  the  water  and  boil 
imtil  done,  ordinarily  about  30  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  cream 
sauce. 

455.  Codfish  cakes  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

10  pounds  salt  codfish. 

10  pounds  potatoes,  mashed. 

12  eggs. 
If  whole  cod  is  used,  soak,  boil,  remove  the  bones,  and  pass  through 
a  meat  chopper;  mix  with  the  potatoes  and  eggs;  season  to  taste 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  mold  into  cakes  weighing  about  3  ounces 
each.  Roll  in  cracker  crumbs  or  flour  and  iry  in  deep  fat.  Serve 
hot  with  tomato  gravy.  These  cakes  may  be  improved  by  dipping 
in  egg  batter  before  frying. 

456.  Cream  sauce  for  codfish  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
1  pound  fat,  butter  preferred. 
4  cans  evaporated  milk. 
\  pound  onions,  minced, 
i  pound  j)ickles,  minced. 
6  hard  boiled  eggs,  minced  if  desired. 
Thicken  1  gallon  of  boiling  water  with  a  flour  batter  and  season 
well  with  pepper  and  salt;  let  come  to  a  boil  and  add  the  fat,  milk, 
onions,  ana  pickles;  whip  well  and  spread  over  the  fish  on  the  platter. 
The  sauce  may  be  improved  by  the  addition  of  6  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine. 

Crab  salad. — See  Salads. 

457.  Fried  fresh  fish  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
30  pounds  fresh  fish. 
Clean  and  slice  (or  split)  into  pieces  not  more  than  1  inch  thick; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour  and  corn  meal,  and  fry  in 
deep  lard  until  thoroughly  browned.     Serve  hot  with  salad  or  pickles 
and,  if  practicable,  tomato  or  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Lobster  salad.— See  Salads. 


206  MANUAL   FOE  ARMY   COOKS. 

458.  Oysters,  fried  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

360  oysters  (6  to  8  quarts,  according  to  size). 

18  eggs. 

4  pounds  cracker  meal. 
Remove  from  can,  or  shells,  and  dry  with  a  cloth;  dip  in  egg 
batter  and  drop  in  a  pan  with  cracker  dust.  After  enough  have 
been  dropped  in,  shake  pan  well;  take  each  one  between  the  hands, 
press  flat,  and  lay  in  the  frying  pan.  Fry  until  slightly  brown. 
Serve  hot  with  tomato  or  Worcestershire  sauce,  and,  if  practicable, 
with  slaw  or  salad. 

459.  Oysters,  scalloped  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
12  quarts  oysters,  or  about  six  for  each  man. 
3  pounds  bacon,  or  butter  if  desired. 
2  cans  evaporated  milk. 
6  pounds  bread,  diced  and  toasted. 
Dice  the  bacon  and  fry  until  crisp;  add  the  oysters,  allow  to  come 
to  a  boil  and  add  the  bread.     Let  stand  about  15  or  20  minutes  at 
very  near  boiling  point  and  add  the  cream  just  before  serving. 
Oyster  stew. — See  Soups. 

460.  Salmon  cakes  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
12  cans  salmon.  j 

25  pounds  mashed  potatoes.  ^ 

Mix  well,  adding  a  little  beef  stock  and  flour;  season  with  salt  and 

gepper;  make  into  cakes  of  about  3  ounces  each,  roll  in  flour,  fry  in 
ot  fat,  and  serve  hot  with  tomato  gravy  or  tomato  sauce. 

461.  Salmon  hash  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
12  cans  salmon. 

25  pounds  mashed  potatoes.  -i 

Mix  well,  adding  a  little  beef  stock;  spread  3  inches  deep  or  less  i 
a  bake  pan  (slightly  greased);    season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
allow  to  bake  in  a  medium  oven  for  40  minutes  or  an  hour.     Serve 
hot. 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  207 

462.  Spanish  fish  sauce  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

1  pound  fat. 

2  pounds  minced  onions. 
4  minced  tomatoes. 

4  cloves  garlic. 

4  ounces  chili  Colorado. 
2  gallons  beef  stock. 

Mix  the  onions,  tomatoes,  garlic,  and  chili;  fry  in  grease  until 
ell  done;   add  2  ^llons  of  beef  stock  and  boil  about  10  minutes, 

licken  slightly  with  a  flour  batter,  and  season  with  salt  to  taste. 

erve  hot  over  the  fish. 
This  sauce  may  also  be  used  for  boiled  or  baked  fish  and  varinos 

inds  of  meats. 

VEGETABLES. 

463.  Asparagus  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
15  No.  2  cans  asparagus,  or 
15  bunches  fresh  asparagus. 
Open  the  cans  and  place  them  on  the  range  where  there  is  no 
anger  of  boiling;   when  hot,  pour  off  the  liquid  and  use  it  in  pre- 
aring  the  cream  sauce.     Serve  hot. 

404.  Beans,  baked  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used: 
15  pounds  beans,  issue. 
2  pounds  bacon,  diced. 

5  ounces  sugar,  or 
\  pint  molasses. 

Wash  the  beans  thoroughly  in  cold  water;  drain  and  place  in  cold 
ater  and  boil  15  minutes;  (Irain  again  and  place  the  bacon,  beans, 
igar  (or  molasses),  5  gallons  of  water,  and  salt  to  taste  in  the  boiler 
r  jar;  place  on  the  ran^e  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  after  about  15 
liimtes,  cover  \vith  a  lid  and  place  in  the  oven.  If  the  beans  are 
)  be  served  for  dinner,  the  above  work  should  be  attended  to  the 
receding  evening,  and  the  lire  should  be  left  so  as  to  keep  up  a  slow 


208  MANUAL   FOE  ABMY   COOKS. 

heat  for  the  greater  part  of  the  night.  The  first  thing  in  the  morning 
more  water  should  be  put  in  (if  necessary),  covering  the  beans  about 
1  inch.  It  the  breakfast  requires  a  hot  nre,  the  oven  door  should  be 
left  partly  open,  so  that  the  beans  will  only  simmer.  If  the  oven 
can  not  be  thus  regulated,  the  beana  should  be  removed  and  placed 
on  the  range  or  mantel,  where  they  will  barelv  simmer.  It  may  be 
necessary  to  add  more  water  several  times  in  the  course  of  the  morn- 
ing (in  order  to  keep  the  beans  barely  covered).  By  10  o'clock  in 
the  morning  there  snould  be  sufficient  juice  in  the  kettle,  so  that 
bubbles  will  rise  to  the  surface  as  the  beans  simmer;  in  one-half 
hoiu"  the  beans  will  be  ready  to  serve  and  should  be  removed  to  a 
place  where  they  will  be  kept  warm.  Serve  hot  with  some  kind  of 
salad. 

Water  added  while  cooking  should  be  boiling  hot.  Especially  in 
summer,  the  beans  should  not  be  soaked,  as  they  may  sour  and  have  a 
bad  flavor.  Beans  left  over  may  be  used  in  the  preparation  of  bean 
salad  or  chili  con  carne. 

465.  Beans,  boiled  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

15  pounds  beans,  issue. 
2  pounds  bacon,  diced. 
Wash  the  beans  thoroughly  and  place  on  the  range  in  a  boiler  with 
about  5  gallons  of  water ;  when  they  reach  the  boiling  point  skim  them 
and  allow  to  simmer  for  at  least  four  hours.  After  they  have  sim- 
mered about  two  houi's,  add  the  bacon  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. If  necessary  to  add  water  during  the  process  of  cooking,  it 
should  be  boiling  hot.     Serve  hot. 

466.  Beans,  lima  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

i2  pounds  lima  beans. 

^  pound  of  floiu". 

1  pound  bacon,  diced. 

Wash  the  beans  thoroughly;  place  in  a  boiler  with  about  5  gallons 

of  water;  boil  10  minutes  and  pour  off  the  water;  add  the  flour  and 

bacon  and  mix  well;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  add  about  4  gallons  of 

water,  and  allow  to  simmer  until  well  done.    Serve  hot. 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  209 

The  flour  is  used  for  the  purpose  of  keeping  the  beans  whole  while 
cooking.    Time  required  to  prepare,  about  four  hours. 

467.  Beans,  stringless  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used  : 

24  pounds  stringless  beans. 

1^  pounds  bacon,  diced. 
Break  the  beans  into  pieces  about  1  inch  long ;  wash  well  and  place 
in  a  closed  boiler  with  sufficient  water  to  one-third  cover  tnem. 
Add  the  bacon;  place  on  the  range,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  let 
simmer  for  three-fourths  of  an  hour;  add  more  water  or  beef  stock  (if 
necessary  to  barely  cover  the  beans) ;  thicken  slightly  with  a  flour 
batter,  and  allow  to  simmer  for  about  15  minutes.  When  done  the 
liquid  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  thick  sirup.  Beans  left  over 
may  be  used  in  making  salads. 

468.  Beans  cooked  in  a  trench.  This  is  an  excellent  method  when 
properly  done.  Prepare  the  beans  in  the  same  "manner  as  if  they 
were  to  be  baked  in  the  Army  range  in  garrison.  Dig  a  trench  about 
6  inches  deeper  and  6  inches  wider  than  the  camp  kettles  used,  and 
long  enough- to  allow  6  inches  between  kettles  and  between  kettles 
and  ends  of  trench.  Build  a  good  fire  in  the  trench  and  let  it  bum 
to  coals.  Take  out  two-thirds  of  the  coals,  permitting  one-third  to 
remain  in  the  trench.  Place  the  camp  kettles  with  fids  on  in  the 
trench,  resting  on  the  coals.  Fill  in  the  space  between  kettles  and  at 
the  ends  of  the  trench  with  coal  and  earth,  placing  hot  coals  next  to 
the  kettles.  Fill  in  well  and  cover  the  kettles  to  a  depth  of  about  8 
inches,  about  3  inches  of  coal  and  5  inches  of  earth,  the  latter  being  on 
top.  If  this  is  done  about  7  o'clock  in  the  evening,  the  beans  should 
be  cooked  by  4  o'clock  in  the  morning.  The  same  cook  who  has 
placed  the  kettles  in  the  trench  and  covered  them  should  dig  them 
out  in  the  morning,  as  he  will  understand  better  how  the  lids  are 
set  and  there  will  be  less  danger  of  getting  dirt  in  the  kettles. 

Sufficient  beans  should  be  oaked  for  breakfast  and  lunch.  If  on 
the  march,  the  beans  for  lunch  should  be  issued  to  the  men  to  be  car- 
ried in  their  individual  mess  kits. 

469.  Beets,  boiled  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
22  pounds  beets. 


210  MANUAL  FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

Wash  the  beets  thoroughly  and  boil  until  well  done;  hold  under  a 
faucet  and  rub  the  skins  off  with  the  hands;  cut  into  slices,  or  if 
young  and  tender,  thev  may  be  served  whole.  Serve  hot  with  cream 
sauce  or  gravy  poured  over  them.  While  washing  and  cooking  be 
careful  not  to  break  the  skins. 

470.  Cabbage,  Bavarian  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
30  pounds  cabbage. 
5  pounds  salt  pork,  or  sliced  bacon. 

1  quart  vinegar. 

Strip  off  the  outer  leaves  and  cut  out  the  cores;  cut  up  as  for  sauer- 
kraut; wash  and  place  in  a  boiler;  add  the  salt  pork  (or  bacon), 
vinegar^  and  a  gallon  of  water;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  boil 
slowly  in  an  open  boiler  for  three  hours,  adding  boiling  water  if 
necessary;  then  thicken  slightly  with  a  flour  batter  and  boil  about 
five  minutes  longer,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

471.  Cabbage,  boiled  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
30  pounds  cabbage. 

5  pounds  bacon,  salt  pork,  or  corned  beef. 

Strip  off  the  outer  leaves  and  cut  out  the  cores ;  wash  and  place  i  n  a 

boiler  with  sufficient  water  to  cover;  add  the  meat,  season  with  salt, 

boil  in  an  open  boiler  for  about  three  hours,  adding  boiling  water 

when  necessary,  at  the  end  of  which  time  it  should  be  ready  to  serve. 

472.  Cabbage,  fried  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
22  p>ounds  cooked  cabbage. 

2  pounds  bacon  drippings. 

Chop  the  cabbage  fine  and  add  the  bacon  drippings;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  set  on  a  range  in  a  covered  pan  and  fry  about  one- 
half  hour,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  burmng. 

473.  Carrots,  baked  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  u.sed: 
22  pounds  carrots. 
1  pound  bacon  drippings. 


MANUAL  fOB  ARMY   COOKS.  211 

Scrape  and  wash  the  carrots  well  and  place  in  an  open  boiler;  cover 
with  water  and  boil  thoroughly  done;  remove  and  place  in  a  bake 
pan  with  the  bacon  drippings;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  about  20  minutes,  when  they  will  be  ready  to 
serve. 

474.  Carrots,  mashed  (ior  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
22  pounds  carrots. 
4  quarts  beef  stock. 

1  pound  bacon  drippings. 

Peel  the  carrots  and  cut  into  slices  not  more  than  one-half  inch 
thick;  place  in  an  open  boiler  and  pour  in  the  beef  stock;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper;  cook  slowly  until  thoroughly  done.  Add  the 
bacon  drippings  and  mash  thoroughly.     Serve  hot. 

Carrots  may  also  be  used  in  various  other  dishes,  such  as  beef  d  la 
mode,  beef  soup,  vegetable  soup,  etc. 

475.  Com,  canned  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
10  No.  2  cans  com. 
4  quarts  beef  stock. 

2  ounces  sugar. 

1 1-pound  can  evaporated  milk. 
Remove  from  the  cans  and  place  in  a  boiler;  add  the  beef  stock 
(strained),  sugar,  and  milk;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  and  mix  well. 
Place  on  the  range  where  not  too  hot  and  allow  to  come  almost  to  a 
boil ;  thicken  slightly  with  a  flour  batter,  and  allow  to  remain  on  the 
range  for  15  minutes  until  it  comes  almost  to  a  boil,  when  it  will  be 
ready  to  serve. 

476.  Com,  green  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
180  ears. 
Remove  the  husks  and  trim  the  ends;  brush  the  silk  off  with  a  new 
scrubbing  brush;  place  in  well-salted  boiling  water  and  boil  about 
20  minutes.    Serve  with  butter,  if  practicable. 


212  MANUAL   FOB  ABMY   COOKS. 

477.  Egg  plant  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  egg  plant. 
5  eggs. 
Peel  the  egg  plant  and  slice  lengthwise;  beat  the  eggs  well  and 
add  to  them  about  1^  pints  of  water;  season  the  egg  plant  with  salt 
and  dip  in  the  egg  and  water  mixture;  roll  in  flour  and  place  on  a 
board  lightly  covered  with  flour;  remove  with  a  cake  turner  and 
try  in  deep  grease  until  browned;  place  on  a  platter  and  drain  off  the 
fat  well  before  serving. 

478.  Greens  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
30  pounds  greens. 

5  pounds  bacon. 

Put  the  greens  and  bacon  in  2  gallons  of  water,  and  boil  in  an 
open  boiler  for  about  two  hours;  remove  the  bacon  and  strain  the 
water  from  the  greens;  chop  fine  and  place  in  a  well-greased  bake 

Ean;  add  beef  stock  to  moisten  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  about  one- 
alf  hour;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  slice  the  bacon  and  serve  on  top 
of  the  greens.  Greens  may  be  improved  by  the  addition  of  minced 
hard-boiled  eggs. 

Asparagus,  beets,  cabbage,  dandelion,  spinach,  and  other  greens 
may  be  prepared  according  to  the  above  recipe,  but  the  time  required 
for  cooking  will  depend  upon  the  particular  kind  of  greens  used. 
Cabbage  greens  in  particular  require  more  cooking  than  others. 

479.  Hominy  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

6  pounds  fine  hominy. 

1  ounce  salt. 

Place  4  gallons  of  water  in  a  boiler  on  the  range;  when  boiling,  add 
the  hominy  and  salt;  boil  from  20  to  30  minutes;  remove  to  the  end 
of  the  range  and  let  simmer  for  half  an  hour.    Serve  with  milk. 

480.  Macaroni  and  cheese  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
6  pounds  macaroni. 

2  pounds  cheese,  diced. 


MANUAL   FOR   ARMY   COOKS.  213 

Add  the  macaroni  to  4  gallons  of  boiling  water,  salted  to  taste; 
boil  about  20  minutes,  but  not  until  it  becomes  flabby;  strain  the 
water  off;  spread  about  one-third  of  the  macaroni  in  the  bottom  of 
a  well-greased  bake  pan;  then,  one-third  of  the  diced  cheese  on  the 
macaroni ;  continue  the  alternate  layers  until  all  are  in  the  bake 
pan.     Bake  in  the  oven  about  30  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

If  desired,  2  or  3  pounds  of  toasted  bread  crumbs  and  2  or  3  cans 
of  tomatoes  may  be  mixed  with  the  cheese  between  the  layers  of 
macaroni. 

481.  OnioTiSy  boiled  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  onions. 
Select  onions  not  more  t^n  half  as  large  as  eggs;  boil  from  one-half 
to  three-fourths  of  an  hour  and  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Left-over  boiled  onions  may  be  used  in  making  gravy,  hash, 
stewed  potatoes,  or  lyonnaise  potatoes. 

482.  Onions,  fried  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
12  pounds  onions,  peeled  and  sliced. 

1  pound  lard  or  drippings. 

2  quarts  beef  stock. 

Put  all  in  a  bake  pan  on  top  of  the  range  with  a  hot  fire.  When 
the  water  is  all  evaporated,  the  fat  in  the  pan  will  be  sufficient  to 
brown  the  onions.  Stir  frequently  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
May  be  served  with  beefsteak  or  as  a  vegetable. 

AS^.  Onions,  stuffed  (ioT  60  men). 
Ingredients  used : 
15  pounds  onions,  medium  size. 

3  pounds  toasted  bread  crumbs. 
8  pounds  meat  scraps. 

8  pounds  bread  scraps. 

Peel  the  onions  with  a  sharp  knife  and  dig  out  the  center  from 

'the  top  end,  leaving  a  shell.    Meanwhile  prepare  a  dressing,  using 

the  meat  and  bread,  and  stuff  each  onion  full.  Sprinkle  the  toasted 

bread  crumbs  in  a  well-greased  bake  pan  and  place  the  onions  in 


214  MANUAL    FOR   ARMY    COOKS. 

the  pan.  grease  well  over  the  top  and  bake  40  minutes  in  a  medium 
oven.     Serve  hot  with  chili  or  tomato  sauce  poured  over  it. 

The  above  preparation  may  be  used  as  the  meat  component  of  a 
meal  if  desired. 

484.  Onions  and  grated  cheese  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
15  pounds  onions. 
1  pound  fat. 
1  pound  cheese,  grated. 
Peel  and  slice  the  onions  and  fry  until  well  done;  mix  the  grated 
cheese  with  the  onions  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  (about  12  counts)  for 
20  minutes. 

485.  Parsnips,  baked  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  parsnips. 
1  quart  beef  stock. 

3  pounds  bacon. 

Scrape  and  wash  the  parsnips  thoroughly  and  place  in  a  well- 
greased  bake  pan;  season  with  pepper  andsalt  and  pour  the  beef 
stock  over  them:  place  strips  of  bacon  over  the  parsnips  and  cover 
with  a  pan  to  prevent  eva{>oration;  place  in  the  oven  and  bake 
slowly  until  thoroughly  done. 

Parsnips  may  also  be  used  in  l)eef  and  vegetable  soups.  This  is 
not  recommended,  as  they  give  a  strong  flavor. 

486.  Pars7}ips,  mashed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
30  ]X)unds  parsnips. 
1  pound  ba<'on  drij)ping8. 

4  gallons  water. 

Scrape  and  wash  the  parsnips  thoroughly  and  place  in  an  open 
boiler;  ix)nr  the  water  over  them  and  cook  slowly  until  thoroughly 
done,  when  done,  pour  off  the  water  and  add  the  bacon  drippings; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  mash  thoroughly. 

Parsnips  left  over  may  be  served  later  by  preparing  as  follows: 
Place  in  a  bake  pan.  smooth  off  the  top  and  grease  lightly,  and  place 
in  the  oven  until  browned,  about  40  minutes. 


MANUAL    FOB   ARMY    COOKS.  215 

487.  Peas,  canned  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
10  No.  2  cans  peas.  ' 

^  pound  butter. 
Empty  the  peas  into  a  stew  pot;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and  add 
the  butter;  allow  to  come  to  a  boil,  thicken  slightly  with  a  flour 
batter,  and  let  come  to  a  boil  again,  when  they  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

488.  Peas,  green  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
10  quarts  green  peas. 
5  quarts  beef  stock. 
1  pound  butter  or  drippings. 
3  cans  evaporated  milk. 
Carefully  pick  over  and  place  in  a  boiler  or  stew  pot;  add  the  beef 
stock  and  butter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  boil  about  15 
minutes;  thicken  with  a  flour  batter  and  let  come  to  a  boil  again. 
Add  milk  if  available,  and  the  peas  are  ready  to  serve. 

489.  Potatoes,  hahed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
'  22  poimds  potatoes. 

Select  potatoes  of  about  the  same  size;  wash  well  and  place  in 
smaller  of  two  pans;  rub  a  little  grease  over  each  potato  with  the 
hands,  and  cover  with  the  larger  pan;  bake  until  well  done,  usually 
about  one  hour.  Pinch  each  potato  to  break  the  skins,  just  before 
serving. 

To  utilize  left-over  baked  potatoes. 

Unless  care  is  exercised  in  peeling  these,  a  large  portion  of  the 
potato  will  adhere  to  the  skin.  This  may  be  avoided  by  boiHng  10 
or  15  minutes  and  peeling  at  once. 

490.  Potatoes,  boiled  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used: 

22  pounds  potatoes. 
Peel  and  put  in  cool  water;  salt  and  boil  slowly  until  thoroughly 
Idone  (about  20  to  40  minutes);  drain  thoroughly;  remove  the  lid 


216  MANUAL  FOE  ARMY   CQOKS. 

and  allow  the  potatoes  to  remain  on  the  range  about  three  minutes 
longer.     Serve  in  vegetable  dishes.  i 

491.  Potatoes  boiled  in  jackets  (for  60  men).  Select  22  pounds  of  | 
X)otatoes  of  uniform  size;  wash  clean  with  a  brush;  soak  for  a  few  \ 
minutes  in  cold  water;  then  put  in  boiling  salt  water  and  cook  for  - 
half  an  hour.  Test  with  a  fork  and,  if  tender,  drain  at  once.  Do  not  | 
allow  them  to  boil  until  broken  as  this  will  cause  them  to  absorb  , 
water  and  become  pasty  and  soggy.  Remove  the  kettle  to  back  of  ' 
etove,  allowing  the  steam  to  escape.  This  will  give  them  a  sweet  j 
and  nutty  flavor.  Keep  hot  until  ready  to  serve.  The  cooking 
should  be  so  regulated  that  they  can  be  served  immediately  there- 
after. 

492.  Potatoes,  browned  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used:  ^      ] 

22  poimds  potatoes. 

Select  the  small  potatoes;  wash  and  boil  until  done;  peel  and  then 

■grease  each  potato;  spread  over  the  bottom  of  a  well-greased  bake 

pan  in  a  single  layer;  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  until  brown,  usually 

about  30  minutes.  ^ 

493.  Potato  cakes  (for  60  men).  i 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  potatoes. 

1  pound  flour. 

2  ounces  green  chopped  parsley. 
Run  the  potatoes  through  a  meat  chopper,  and  roll  into  cakes 

weighing  about  3  ounces  each;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep  lard  until 
nicely  browned;  serve  as  a  vegetable  with  any  kmd  of  meat.  Left- 
over potatoes  prepared  in  any  manner  may  be  used  in  this  recipe. 

494.  Potatoes,  cheesed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  potatoes. 
1  gallon  beef  stock. 
1  pound  grated  cheese. 
Use  any  left-over  cooked  potatoes;  cut  about  the  size  of  a  lima 
bean;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  mix  with  the  beef  stock;  add  the 


MANUAL  FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  ^1/ 

grated  cheese.     Spread  2  or  3  inches  deep  over  the  bottom  of  a  well- 
greased  bake  pan  and  bake  for  about  30  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

495.  Potatoes,  creamed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  potatoes. 
1  gallon  beef  stock.  ^ 

1  can  evaporated  milk. 

2  ounces  parsley. 

Boil  the  potatoes  until  well  done;  peel  and  slice  crosswise;  allow 
the  beef  stock  to  come  to  a  boil  on  tne  range;  thicken  with  a  flour 
batter  and  add  the  evaporated  milk;  place  the  potatoes  in  a  bake  pan 
and  pour  the  mixture  over  them,  it  being  just  suflicient  in  quantity 
to  cover  the  potatoes.  Allow  to  come  to  a  boil  and  remove  from  the 
range  immeaiately.  Meanwhile,  chop  the  parsley  very  fine  and, 
before  serving,  spjinkle  evenly  over  the  potatoes.    Salt  to  taste. 

496.  Potatoes,  fried  {for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  potatoes. 
Wash  the  potatoes  and  boil  until  they  may  be  easily  pierced  with 
a  fork;  peel  and  slice  crosswise;  season  with  salt,  adding  sufficient 
fat  to  moisten;  spread  over  the  bottom  of  a  well-greased  bake  pan  to 
the  depth  of  about  2  inches,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for  about  30 
minutes. 

497.  Potatoes,  French  fried  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  potatoes,  peeled. 
/    Cut  lengthwise  into  one-half  inch  slices,  and  fry  in  deep  lard  until 
nicely  browned;  after  frying,  dust  slightly  with  salt,  and  serve  hot 
with  any  kind  of  meat. 

On  account  of  the  quantity  of  potatoes  to  be  prepared  for  an  organi- 
zation mess,  it  is  not  advisable  to  cut  in  thin  slices,  as  is  usually 
done.  This  is  a  dish  much  relished  by  the  men,  and  on  account  of 
its  comparative  cheapness  it  is  recommended  for  frequent  use. 

In  many  kitchens  they  are  considered  too  expensive,  because  it  is 
believed  that  a  large  apiount  of  lard  or  other  fat  is  required  to  fry 


218  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

them.  Experiments  have  proven  conclusively  that,  while  con- 
siderable lajd  or  fat  is  retjuired  to  float  them,  a  very  small  amount  is 
actually  consumed  in  fr>ang.  In  recent  experiments  with  pure  lard, 
it  was  found  that  only  10  ounces  were  used  in  frying  17  pounds  of 
potatoes.  One  pound  of  refined  cottonseed  oil  will  fry  25  pounds 
of  potatoes. 

498.  Potatoes,  French  baked  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  of  potatoes. 

1  pound  fat. 

2  quarts  stock. 

Wash,  peel,  and  slice  potatoes  as  for  French  fried.  Place  in  a  well- 
greased  bake  pan.  Salt  to  taste.  Add  stock  and  fat.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Place  in  n^edium  oven  and  bake  about  one  hour,  or  until 
done.  During  the  process  of  cooking  they  should  not  be  disturbed 
with  forks  or  spoons,  but  should  be,  when  served,  as  nearly  as  possi- 
ble in  the  same  form  as  when  first  placed  in  the  pan.    Serve  hot. 

499.  Potaotes,  German  hailed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
22  pounds  potatoes. 
1  pound  onions,  browned. 
Cut  the  potatoes  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  an  egg;  place  in  cool 
water  and  boil  slowly  until  done;  place  in  vegetable  dishes  and  over 
each  place  about  two  basting  spoonfuls  of  browned  onion.    Serve  hot. 
Potatoes  left  over  from  tms  recipe  may  be  used  in  lyonnaise  pota- 
toes, salads,  fried  potatoes,  hash,  stews,  and  various  other  ways. 

500.  Potatoes,  hashed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  potatoes. 
1  gallon  beef  stock. 
Cut  the  cooked  potatoes  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  lima  bean; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  with  beef  stock  the  same  as 
when  making  hash;  spreswi  2  or  3  inches  deep  over  the  bottom  of  a 
well-greased  oake  pan;  spread  a  little  fat  over  the  top  and  bake  for 
about  30  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMT   COOKS.  219 

501.  Potatoes,  lyonnaise  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
22  pounds  potatoes . 
2  pounds  onions. 
Wash  the  potatoes  and  boil  them  until  they  may  be  easily  pierced 
with  a  fork;  peel  and  slice  crosswise;  wash  and  slice  the  onions, 
fry  brown  and  add  the  potatoes.    Season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
aading  suflScient  fat  to  moisten,  and  spread  about  2  inches  deep  in 
the  bottom  of  a  well-greased  bake  pan.    Bake  about  30  minutes  m  a 
quick  oven. 

502.  Potatoes,  mashed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

22  pounds  potatoes. 

Peel,  wash  in  cold  water,  and  boil  until  thoroughly  done;  strain^ 

salt,  and  mash  well.    Instead  of  the  milk  and  butter  often  used  in 

this  preparation,  carefully  strained  beef  stock  and  fat  may  be  used. 

Whip  well  with  a  basting  spoon  for  about  5  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

503.  Potatoes,  sweet,  baked  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
22  pounds  sweet  potatoes. 
Wash  well  and  remove  all  defective  spots;  place  in  a  bake  pan 
and  cover  with  a  second  pan  to  prevent  evaporation  while  bakings 
and  bake  until  well  done,  usually  about  35  minutes. 

If  desired,  the  potatoes  may  be  peeled,  rolled  in  fat,  and  lightly 
sprinkled  with  sugar  and  salt  before  baking. 

504.  Potatoes,  sweet,  boiled  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  sweet  potatoes. 
Wash  thoroughly  and  cut  out  any  defective  spots;  let  boil  until 
thoroughly  done;  strain  the  water  off,  and  serve  not  with  meat  and 
gravy,  or  butter.    Time  required,  about  one-half  hour. 


220  MANUAL   FOE   ARMY   COOKS. 

505.  Potatoes,  sweet,  candied  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  sweet  potatoes. 
1  pound  butter 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  gallon  beef  stock,  strained. 
Wash  the  potatoes  and  boil  until  fairly  well  done;  peel  and  slice 
lengthwise,  spread  in  three  layers  in  a  bake  pan,  putting  about  one- 
third  of  the  sugar  and  butter  on  top  of  each  layer;  pour  the  beef 
stock  over  the  whole  and  bake  in  a  medium  hot  oven  for  40  minutes 
or  an  hour. 

50Q.  Potatoes,  sweet,  fried  (ioT  00  men). 
Ingredients  used : 
22  pounds  sweet  potatoes. 
Peel  the  potatoes  and  slice  lengthwise,  as  for  French  fried  pota- 
toes, and  fry  in  deep  lard. 

507.  Pumpkin,  baked  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
22  pounds  pumpkin. 

1  pound  bacon  drippings. 
Peel  the  pumpkin,  remove  the  seeds  and  clean  well;  cut  in  pieces 

not  more  than  2  inches  square;  spread  these,  in  one  layer,  in  a /bake 
pan  and  pour  over  them  about  one  pound  of  bacon  drippings;  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper;  cover  with  a  larger  pan  to  prevent  evap- 
oration and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  well  done.  Or  select  pump- 
kins about  5  pounds  each;  split  in  halves  and  clean  well,  without 
peeling;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  sugar  and  place  in  a  bake  pan,  with 
the  cut  siae  up.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  thoroughly  done. 

508.  Rice,  hailed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
5  pounds  rice. 
3  gallons  water. 

2  ounces  salt. 


MANUAL   FOB  ABMT   COOKS.  221 

WTien  the  water  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  rice  and  salt.  When  the 
rice  may  be  mashed  in  the  fingers,  pour  into  a  colander  and  drain 
well,  after  which  each  grain  should  be  whole  and  separate. 

509.  Rice,  fried  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
5  pounds  rice. 

2  pounds  fat.   . 

1  pound  onions,  diced. 
Boil  the  rice  as  in  the  preceding  recipe;  place  the  fat  in  a  bake 
pan;  set  on  the  range  and!^  let  come  to  a  smoking  temperature;  add 
the  onions  and  let  them  brown  slightly;  add  the  rice  and  stir  con- 
tinually with  a  cake  turner  to  prevent  burning  and  to  mix  the  grease 
with  it  thoroughly.  Rice  may  be  cooked  in  a  hot  oven,  but  must 
be  stirred  every  few  minutes.  About  15  or  20  minutes  are  required 
to  fry  it.  It  may  be  served  with  beef  curry,  Turkish  stew,  or  as  a 
vegetable. 

510.  Sauerkraut  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
5  gallons  sauerkraut. 

3  gallons  beef  stock. 

Season  to  taste  and  allow  to  simmer  for  about  two  hours.     Sauer- 
kraut should  be  cooked  with  some  kind  of  meat. 
How  to  make  sauerkraut. 
Ingredients  used — for  one  gallon: 
7i  pounds  trimmed  cabbage. 

4  ounces  salt. 

Remove  outer  green  leaves,  and  after  slicing  the  cabbage  fine 
with  cutter,  place  in  barrel  and  salt;  then,  with  a  large  wooden 
masher,  stamp  until  of  a  mushy  consistency.  More  cabbage  and 
salt  may  be  added  and  the  operation  continued  until  the  barrel  is 
full.  After  the  barrel  is  filled  cover  the  kraut  with  a  clean  cloth 
and  then  with  a  board  prepared  to  fit  snugly  inside  of  the  barrel. 
The  board  will  be  placed  on  the  cloth  and  a  hundred-pound  rock  on 
the  board  while  the  cabbage  is  fermenting.  Let  stand  in  a  tem- 
perature of  about  70°  F.  for  one  month.  If  the  kraut  is  made  in 
warm  weather,  the  amount  of  salt  used  must  be  increased  to  6  ounces 


222  MANUAL  FOB  ARMY  COOKS. 

per  gallon,  and  the  time  it  takes  for  it  to  ripen  will  be  less  than  in 
colder  weather.  When  the  kraut  is  ready  for  use  it  will  have  a 
decided  odor,  but  when  not  fully  matured  it  will  have  an  odor 
somewhat  resembling  that  of  beer.  The  temperature  of  the  place 
where  it  is  stored  has  much  to  do  in  influencing  the  acidity  acquired 
in  any  given  time.  Each  time  when  removing  kraut  from  barrel, 
thoroughly  wash  both  cloth  and  barrel  cover,  as  well  as  weight  and 
sides  of  barrel,  before  replacing.  This  should  be  attended  to  once 
each  week  whether  kraut  is  removed  or  not.  Care  should  be  exer- 
cised in  the  selection  of  a  barrel  for  sauerkraut.  Charred  barrels 
should  not  he  used.    Oak  barrels  are  preferable. 

511.  Spinach,  boiled  (for  60  men).    See  Greens,  paragraph  478. 

512.  Squash,  baked  (for  60  men).     Prepared  the  same  as  pumpkin, 
baked.    See  paragraph  507. 

513.  Squash,  canned,  baked  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used 
8  cans  squash. 
Remove  from  the  cans,  season,  and  place  in  a  well-greased  pan; 
spread  evenly  and  add  a  small  amount  of  fat;  place  in  a  brisk  oven 
and  bake  for  one-half  hour,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

514.  Squash,  mashed  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
15  pounds  squash. 
2  quarts  bee!  stock. 
1  pound  bacon  drippings. 
Peel  the  squash,  remove  the  seeds  and  clean  well;  cut  in  pieces 
not  more  than  2  inches  square;  place  in  a  boiler  and  pour  over  it 
the  beef  stock;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  close  the  boiler  with  a 
tight  lid  and  boil  for  about  two  hours  (or  until  well  done);  add  the 
bacon  drippings,  and  mash  well  before  serving. 

515.  Sujccotash  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
1^  gallons  corn,  cut  from  the  cob. 
\\  gallons  cooked  lima  beans. 
1  pound  bacon,  diced. 


MANUAL  FOB  ARM\    COOKS.  225 

Mix  the  corn  beans,  and  bacon;  season  to  taste;  pour  over  the  mix- 
ture sufficient  beef  stock  to  cover  it;  place  in  the  oven  and  stew  for 
30  minutes;  thicken  slightly  with  a  flour  batter  and  boil  for  5  minutes- 
more,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

516.  Tomatoes,  stejjued  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  tomatoes. 

Place  8  or  10  tomatoes  in  a  colander  at  a  time,  and  set  in  boiling- 
water  for  about  one-half  minute;  peel,  split  in  halves,  and  place  in 
the  stewpot,  stew  for  one-half  hour  ana  add  2  quarta  of  strained  beef 
stock;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  and  add  bread  crumbs,  if  desired. 

Stewed  canned  tomatoes. — Take  six  small  cans  tomatoes;  remove^ 
from  the  cans,  place  in  the  stewpot  and  add  2  ounces  of  sugar  and 
one-half  pound  of  bacon  drippings;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and,  if 
desired,  add  bread  and  beef  stock,  rlace  on  the  range,  allow  to- 
come  to  a  boil  and  serve  immediately. 

517.  Turnips,  boiled  (for  60  men). 

Ii^edienta  used : 
22  pounds  turnips. 
5  pounds  bacon  or  salt  pork. 
Peel  and  cut  into  half-inch  slices,  across  the  fibers,  which  run  from. 
top  to  bottom;  add  bacon  (or  salt  pork),  pepper,  and  salt;  and  boil 
slowly  from  40  minutes  to  2  hours.     In  boiling  cover  completely 
with  water  and  leave  uncovered,  in  order  that  the  sulphur  may 
escape. 

Turnips  mashed  are  prepared  as  above  and  mashed  well  before^ 
serving. 

Turnips  left  over  may  be  used  again  by  baking  in  the  oven  until 
slightly  browned,  while  covered  with  a  few  strips  bacon  or  salt  pork. 

SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS. 

518.  Salads  are  eaeily  prepared  and,  when  well  seasoned  and 
served,  meet  with  much  favor.  In  addition  to  the  ingredients,  a. 
little  forethought  is  necessary  as  the  different  components  should  be- 
prepared  some  time  in  advance. 


224  MANUAL   FOR  ABMY   COOKS. 

Certain  fundamental  principles  muflt  be  observed  in  their  prepa- 
ration: 

1.  Salads  must  be  served  cold. 

2.  They  should  be  highly  seasoned. 

3.  They  should  be  attractively  served.  To  accomplish  this 
almost  any  bite  of  sightly,  tender  vegetables  may  be  placed  about 
the  dish  or  on  top  or  the  salad.  Si)rigs  of  parsley,  lettuce,  either 
whole  or  shreddea,  celery,  green  onions,  sliced  unpeeled  radishes, 
diamond  or  heart  diaped  beets,  sliced  pickles  or  lemons,  shreddea 
cabbage,  minced  pickles  shaken  over  the  salad,  are  all  used. 

Any  vegetable  may  be  used  in  salads,  either  alone  or  in  combina- 
tion with  otJier  vegetables.  Lettuce,  radishes,  and  onions  may  be 
used  in  several  combinations.  Cabbage,  shredded  fine  and  soaked 
in  cold  water  for  two  hours,  makes  a  satisfactory  salad.  Stringless 
beans  or  peas  that  have  been  cooked  and  cooled  mav  be  used  alone 
or  in  combination  with  other  vegetables.  An  excellent  salad  may 
be  made  of  beets,  either  alone  or  preferably  combined  with  other 
vegetables.  The  beets  should  be  cooked,  then  diced  and  allowed  to 
stand  in  vinegar  for  one  hour.  Potatoes  are  frequently  used  in  salads, 
either  alone  or  as  a  filler  in  meat,  fish,  or  vegetable  salads. 

When  meat  salads  are  served  to  troops  a  vegetable  filler  should  be 
added  to  diminish  the  cost  and  improve  the  flavor.  Thus,  when 
chicken  is  provided,  one-half  boneless  chicken  and  one-half  diced 
celery  or  otner  green  vegetables  should  be  used.  Tiu-key,  tongue, 
lean  beef  cut  fine  may  be  used.  All  meat  must  be  well  done  before] 
using.  Fat  meat  is  undesirable  as  the  dressing  usually  contains] 
olive  or  cottonseed  oil  in  such  quantity  that  other  fats  are  unneces- 
sary. 

Almost  any  kind  of  edible  fish  may  be  used  in  salad,  although 
lajge  fish  are  to  be  preferred  on  account  of  being  more  easily  boned. 
Fim  should  be  cooked  until  done,  the  bones  remo-ved,  and  the  flesh 
mixed  with  one-third  to  one-half  vegetables. 

Cold  hard-boiled  eggs,  olives,  onions,  or  pickles,  minced  or  sliced 
when  mixed  in  a  salad,  spread  over  it,  or  used  as  a  garnish,  add  tc 
the  appearance  and  flavor. 


MANUAL    FOB   ARMY    COOKS.  225 

519.  Apple  and  celery  sahd  ''for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  pounds  apples. 
6  pounds  celer^'. 
3  pints  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Keep  the  celery  in  a  damp  cloth  so  that  it  will  be  crisp.    When 
ready  for  use  cut  it  into  one-half  inch  pieces.    Peel  and  core  the 
apples,  and  just  before  adding  them  to  the  mixture,  cut  them  into 
pieces  similar  in  size  to  the  celery.    Add  half  the  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing and  mix  well. 

Serve  on  garnished  vegetable  dishes,  with  half  the  dressing  spread 
on  the  top. 

520.  Bean  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
15  pounds  baked  beans. 
3  pounds  onions,  chopped  fine. 
2  pounds  pickles,  chopped  fine. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and  vine- 
gar.   Baked  beans  left  over  from  dinner  are  frequently  available  for 
salads. 

521.  Beet  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
10  pounds  beets. 

1  quart  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Clean,  cook,  and  peel  beets,  dice  in  half -inch  cubes,  place  in  salad 
bowl  and  cover  with  vinegar.  Let  stand  for  one  hour  to  cool;  strain 
and  place  in  vegetable  dishes.  Smooth  surface,  spread  the  mayon- 
naise over  the  beets  and  serve  immediately. 

522.  Celery  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
12  pounds  celery,  diced  fine. 

2  pounds  mashed  potatoes. 

2  pounds  bacon  grease  or  olive  oil. 
1  pint  vinegar. 

1  pint  water. 

2  ounces  mustard. 

12  hard-boiled  eggs  (if  desired). 


226  MANUAL  FOE.AEMY   COOKS. 

Dice  the  celery  fine,  chop  the  eggs,  and  mix  the  two  together. 
For  the  dressing,  mash  the  potatoes  thoroughly,  add  the  bacon  grease 
(or  olive  oil)  with  the  vinegar  very  slowly,  and  add  a  little  salt, 
with  cayenne  pepper  and  mustard.  The  sauce  should  then  be  of  the 
consistency  of  cream  or  gravy. 

523.  Chicken  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
30  pounds  chicken. 
2  bunches  celery,  diced. 
1^  pints  olive  oil. 

1  quart  vinegar. 

2  ounces  mustard. 

1  pound  mashed  potatoes. 
Wash  the  chicken  thoroughly,  place  in  boiling  water,  and  boil 
until  the  meat  may  be  easily  separated  from  the  bones.  Run  the 
meat  through  the  chopper,  and  when  cold,  add  the  diced  celery. 
Mix  the  mustard,  olive  oil,  {wtatoes,  and  vinegar  and  pour  over  the 
salad;  mix  well  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  May  be  served 
with  or  without  mayonnaise  dressmg. 

524.  Crab  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

6  cans  salted  crabs. 

12  pounds  celery,  diced. 

i  pound  onions,  chopped. 

i  pint  olive  oil,  or 

}  pound  bacon,  diced  and  browned. 

1  pint  vinegar. 

I  ounce  mustard. 

i  pound  mashed  potatoes. 
Place  the  crabs,  onions,  and  celery  in  a  chopping  bowl  or  dish  pan; 
add  the  mustard,  olive  oil,  and  vinegar  to  the  potatoes,  and  whip 
well;  pour  the  mixture  over  the  salad  and  mix  well.    Cabbage  may 
be  substituted  for  the  celery,  and  bacon  for  the  olive  oil. 


MANUAL   FOE  AEMY  COOKS.  227 

525.  Cucumber  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  cucumbers. 
3  pounds  onions,  sliced. 
'  Peel  the  cucumbers  and  slice  thin;  cover  with  salted  cold  water 
nd  allow  to  stand  for  about  two  hours.    Drain  and  wash  well,  add 
he  onions,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar,  and  serve  cold. 

526.  French  dressing  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used:  • 

3  teaspoonsful  salt. 
^  teaspoonful  pepper,  cayenne. 
1  pint  cottonseed  oil. 
1  pint  vinegar. 
Put  the  salt,  pepper,  and  oil  in  a  dish  and  beat  thoroughly.    When 
hick  and  creamy,  add  slowly  the  vinegar.    This  dressing  should 
lot  be  poured  over  the  salad  until  immediately  before  it  is  to  be 
=aten. 

527.  Lettuce  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  pounds  lettuce. 
6  hard-boiled  eggs,  minced  fine. 
1  pound  bacoD,  diced  and  browned. 
1  quart  vinegar. 
Wash  and  clean  lettuce  thoroughly;  mix  the  bacon,  mustard, 
ainced  eggs,  vinegar,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  the 
sttuce  when  cold.     Serve  ice  cold. 

528.  Lobster  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
12  cans  lobsters. 
12  pounds  celery,  diced, 
i  pound  bacon  or  olive  oil. 
i  pound  onions,  chopped. 
1  pint  vinegar. 
1  ounce  mustard, 
i  pound  mashed  potatoes. 


228  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY  COOKS. 

Mix  the  lobsters,  onions,  and  celery  in  a  chopping  bowl  or  dish  ■ 
pan;  add  the  mustard,  olive  oil,  and  vinegar  to  the  potatoes  and  whip 
well;  pour  the  mixture  over  the  salad  and  mix  well. 

Cabbage  may  be  substituted  for  the  celery,  and  bacon  for  the  oKve 
oil,  if  desired.  If  bacon  is  used,  it  eiiould  be  fried  to  a  crisp  before 
mixing  with  other  ingredients. 

529.  Mayonnaise  dressing  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used : 

1  teaspoonsful  mustard.  \ 

2  teaspoonsful  salt. 

J  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper. 

1  quart  oil,  oHve  or  refined  cottonseed. 

8  yolks  eggs. 

^  pint  vinegar. 
All  ingredients  must  be  cold,  and  the  dressing  should  be  prepared 
in  a  cool  place.  Place  the  yolks  in  a  bowl  of  earthenware  or  wood, 
whip  well  for  about  five  minutes,  add  the  oil  very  slowly,  and  con- 
tinue whipping.  If  the  mixture,  after  half  the  oil  has  been  added, 
shows  no  sign  ol  thickening,  continue  whipping,  without  adding  oil, 
until  it  stiffens  considerably,  then  commence  pouring  in  more  oil, 
beating  continuously,  until  about  three-fourths  of  all  the  oil  has  been 
added.  Add  the  vinegar  slowly,  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  oil 
and  other  ingredients.  Set  away  in  a  cold  place  until  required. 
Should  the  eggs  curdle  and  refuse  to  thicken,  commence,  in  another 
dish,  with  four  eggs,  and  after  they  have  begun  to  thicken  the  curdled 
mayonnaise  may  be  slowly  added.  It  may  be  served  with  meat, 
fish,  or  vegetable  salads  by  mixing  a  part  witii  the  salads  and  smooth- 
ing the  remainder  over  the  surface. 

5Z0.  Piccalilli  salad  {iorQO  men).  j 

Ingredients  used: 

3  pounds  cabbage,  minced. 
3  quarts  tomatoes,  minced. 
3  pounds  onions,  minced. 
3  pounds  pickles,  issue,  minced. 
\  quart  vinegar. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  229 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  W(pll;  season  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and 
cloves,  and  add  sufficient  water  to  make  2  gallons.  Serve  witn  baked 
beans  or  meat  of  any  kind. 

531.  Pickled  beets  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
20  pounds  beets. 
Boil  the  beets  until  done,  and  rub  the  skins  off  with  the  hand;  cut 
into  quarter-inch  slices;  season  with  salt  and  vinegar,  and  allow  to 
stand  about  five  hours  before  serving.     Serve  cold. 

532.  Pimento  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

6  one-pound  cans  pimentos. 

8  poiinds  cabbage. 

1  pound  pickles,  issue. 

1  quart  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Shred  cabbage  fine  and  place  in  cold  salt  water  for  an  hour.  Select 
one-fourth  of  the  pimentos  best  for  the  purpose  and  slice  them  into 
fine  cords  like  shoe  strings.  Chop  remaining  pimentos  fine;  shake 
water  from  cabbage  and  place  in  salad  bowls  with  the  chopped 
pimentos,  the  pickles,  and  one-third  the  mayonnaise,  and  mix  well, 
rlace  the  mixture  in  cold  vegetable  dishes.  Spread  the  remainder 
of  the  mayonnaise  and  pimento  on  top  and  serve  immediately. 

533.  Potato  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

20  pounds  potatoes,  boiled  and  sliced. 

1  pound  onions,  minced. 

1  pound  bacon,  diced  and  browned, 

1  pint  water. 

1  pint  vinegar. 
Place  the  potatoes  in  a  chopping  bowl  with  the  onions  over  them. 
Fry  the  bacon  until  brown,  and  while  still  hot  dash  over  the  potatoes, 
and  add  the  vinegar  and  water.    Mix  well,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  allow  to  stand  for  two  hours  before  sers'ing. 


230  MANUAL  FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

534.  Salmon  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  one-pound  cans  salmon. 
4  pounds  boiled  potatoes,  diced. 
4  pounds  lettuce. 

1  quart  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Cool  the  cans  and  empty  contents  into  a  salad  bowl,  chop  fine, 

and  mix  with  the  potatoes.  Soak  the  lettuce  in  cold  salt  water  for 
one  hour,  remove  and  shake  well.  Shred  with  a  sharp  knife  and  add 
to  the  salad.  Mix  one-third  of  the  mayonnaise  with  the  salad  and 
spread  the  remainder  over  the  surface.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of 
tender  vegetables  and  serve  immediately. 

535.  Slaw  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
30  pounds  cabbage. 

2  pounds  bacon,  diced  and  browned, 
li  quarts  vinegar. 

6  pounds  onions. 
Wash  the  cabbage  thoroughly  and  chop  fine;  add  the  onions,  bacori, 
and  vinegar,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.    Mix  thoroughly  and 
let  come  to  a  boil  in  a  closed  vessel,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Sour  cream  dressing  for  slaw  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used: 
1  pint  vinegar. 

1  pint  milk. 

i  pint  oil  or  four  ounces  of  butter,  melted. 

2  teaspoonsful  mustard. 
4  teaspoonsful  salt. 

J  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 
4  teaspoonsful  sugar. 
Add  the  vinegar  to  the  milk,  then  the  oil,  then  the  other  in- 
gredients, stirring  with  a  wire  beater.    Add  to  the  slaw  just  before 
serving. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  231 

536.  Sliced  tomatoes  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
15  pounds  tomatoes. 
Wash  the  tomatoes  well  and  dip  6  or  8  at  a  time  in  boiling  water,  so 
that  the  skins  may  be  easily  removed;  allow  to  cool  and  place  in  the 
ice  chest  until  thoroughly  chilled;  slice  thin  and  place  in  the  ice 
chest  until  required. 

537.  Stringless  bean  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
12  pounds  cold  stringless  beans. 
To  the  cold  beans  add  a  little  mustard,  salt,  and  vinegar  to  taste, 
and  mix  well. 

538.  Cabbage  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
10  pounds  cabbage. 

2  bunches  parsley. 

1  quart  French  dressing. 
Trim  and  core  the  cabbage,  wash  clean,  shred  fine  and  soak  in 
salted  ice  water  for  one  hour.  Take  cabbage  from  the  water  and  shake 
well  so  as  to  remove  all  the  water  possible.  Place  in  a  large  bowl, 
pour  over  it  the  French  dressing,  and  toss  it  about  until  every  part 
18  covered  with  the  dressing.  Place  in  vegetable  dishes  and  cover 
with  minced  parsley  and  serve  immediately. 

539.  Vegetable  salad  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
10  pounds  cooked  vegetables. 
Nearly  any  kind  of  left-over  cooked  vegetables  may  be  used  in 
making  vegetable  salads  by  seasoning  with  muBtard,  vinegar,  and 
bacon  grease  or  olive  oil. 

DESSERTS. 

540.  Apple  rolls  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  pounds  flour. 

3  pounds  lard. 

IJ  gallons  stewed  apples. 


232  MANU^  FOB  ABMY  COOKS. 

Prepare  the  dough  as  for  pies,  and  the  apples  aa  for  apple  pies,  but 
a  little  drier;  roll  the  dough  out  into  strips  about  7  inches  wide  and 
a  little  longer  than  the  width  of  the  pan;  raise  the  farther  end  of  the 
pan  about  4  inches  from  the  table ;  spread  one  of  the  strips  of  dough 
across  the  lower  end  of  the  pan  and  place  the  apples  for  one  roll  on 
this  strip;  fold  the  farther  side  of  the  strip  of  dough  over  toward  you 
and  then  fold  the  nearer  side  from  you,  tucking  it  under  the  roll. 
Continue  making  the  rolls  in  the  same  manner,  rolling  them  up  like 
a  cigarette,  and  placing  each  in  succession  beyond  the  one  previously 
made.  When  tne  pan  is  filled,  trim  off  the  ends  with  a  knife.  In 
no  case  should  the  rolls  be  over  3  inches  thick.  Bake  about  40  min- 
utes in  a  15-count  oven  and  cut  lengthwise  of  the  pan  into  pieces 
about  3  inches  long.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  a  cream  sauce,  in  vege- 
table dishes. 

Any  kind  of  stewed  fruit  may  be  substituted  for  the  apples  and  the 
rolls  named  accordingly. 

641.  Apple  cobbler  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used: 
4  pounds  evaporated  apples. 
6  pounds  sugar. 
1  ounce  cinnamon. 
1  grated  nutmeg. 
Wash  the  apples  thoroughly  and  soak  them  in  cold  water  for  two 
hours,  then  cook  in  1^  gallons  of  water  until  well  done,  but  not  broken. 
Let  cool ;  then  add  sugar  and  spices. 
Crust  to  be  made  as  follows: 
Ingredients  used : 
8  pounds  flour. 
4  ounces  baking  powder. 
1  pound  lard. 
1  pound  sugar. 
16  eggs. 
1^  ounces  salt. 
1  quart  and  1  gill  of  water. 
Cream  the  sugar,  lard,  and  salt  thoroughly;  then  add  the  eggs,  one 
at  a  time,  stirring  constantly.    Pour  in  the  water  and  mix  well. 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  233 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  several  times;  then  add 
them  to  the  mixture  and  work  until  smooth. 

Take  about  two-thirds  of  the  dough  and  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick. 
Line  two  bake  pans  and  bake  in  a  15-count  oven  for  20  minutes. 
When  baked  cover  both  crusts  in  pans  with  cold  fruit  about  one-half 
inch  thick.  Roll  out  the  remainder  of  the  dough  and,  with  it,  cover 
the  contents  of  both  pans,  tucking  the  sides  down  well.  Bake  for  20 
minutes  on  the  oven  shelf  in  an  18-count  oven. 
1^  Serve  cold  with  the  following  sauce: 
^  Ingredients  used: 

1  gallon  water. 
1^  pounds  sugar. 
3  ounces  cornstarch. 

1  nutmeg,  grated. 

Any  fruit  may  be  used.     Fresh  fruit  is  preferable. 

542.  Apple  sauce  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

5  pounds  evaporated  apples. 

Place  the  apples  in  three  times  their  bulk  of  water  and  allow  to 
come  to  a  boil;  then  remove  to  a  part  of  the  range  where  they  will 
only  simmer.  After  2  hours,  remove  and  add  sugar  and  flavor  with 
lemon  extract  or  sliced  lemons.     Serve  cold  with  cake. 

If  desired,  the  apples  may  be  run  through  a  colander  or  meat 
chopper  after  cooking. 

543.  Brown  Betty  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
9  pounds  bread  or  bread  scraps. 

6  pounds  caramelized  sugar. 

2  pounds  currants  or  other  dried  tart  fniit. 

Dice  the  bread  into  1-inch  cubes  and  brown  in  a  slow  oven;  place 
3  gallons  of  water  on  the  range  and  add  the  caramelized  sugar  and 
the  fruit;  thicken  slightly  with  a  flour  batter;  pour  over  the  diced 
toast.  Let  cook  in  the  oven  about  20  minut-es  and  serve  with  plain 
sauce. 


234  MANUAL   FOR  ABMY   COOKS. 

544.  Cake,  corn  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
5  pounds  flour. 

3  pounds  corn  meal. 

4  pounds  sugar. 
2  pounds  fat. 
16  eggs. 

7  ounces  baking  powder. 

\  ounce  extract. 

1\  ounces  salt. 
Whip  the  sugar,  fat,  extract,  and  salt  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  eggs 
slowly;  then  add  the  flour,  corn  meal,  baking  powder,  and  sufiicient ' 
water  to  make  a  stiff  batter.     Bake  in  an  18-count  oven  for  about  40  | 
minutes.    This  cake  may  be  made  in  different  forms,  using  the] 
biscuit  molds  as  well  as  bake  pans. 

545.  Fruit  cake,  dark. 

Ingredients  used : 
2\  pounds  sugar. 
2\  pounds  butter,  fresh. 
25  eggs,  whole. 
7  ounces  molasses,  sorghum. 
3|  pounds  flour. 
\  ounce  nutmeg. 
I  ounce  cinnamon. 
J  ounce  ginger. 
\  ounce  cloves, 
li  pounds  citron. 

5  ounces  lemon  peel. 
5  ounces  orange  peel. 
2\  pounds  raisins. 
2\  pounds  currants, 
li  pounds  mixed  nuts,  shelled. 
\  pint  brandy  or  cream. 

Slice  citron,  lemon,  and  orange  peel  very  thin  and  about  the  8iz<» 
of  a  postage  stamp.  Then  wash  in  luke-warm  water  and  rinse  ii: 
clean,  luke-warm  water.  Pick  the  raisins  and  currants  and  nuts 
over  carefully  and  then  wash  and  rinse  them  in  the  same  way. 
When  all  the  fruit  is  cleanly  washed,  mix  and  put  in  a  sieve  to  drain 


MANUAL  FOB  AEMY    COOKS.  235 

for  about  2  hours.  Then  mix  in  the  nutmeg,  ginger,  cloves,  cin- 
Damon,  and  12  ounces  of  flour.  The  flour  is  put  in  to  keep  the  fruit 
separated  and  to  keep  it  from  settling  to  the  bottom. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  well,  then  add  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
stirring  constantly.  Next  add  the  molasses,  stirring  it  in,  then  the 
brandy  or  cream  and,  after  this,  the  3  pounds  of  flour.  When  the 
flour  is  about  half  mixed  in  the  batter,  add  the  dredged  fruit  and 
jpices  and  continue  mixing  until  the  fruit  is  evenly  distributed  and 
ine  mixture  smooth.    This  mixture  makes  21  pounds  of  cake. 

The  best  results  are  obtained  by  baking  fruit  cake  in  an  earthen 
jrock.  If  this  is  not  available  it  may  be  baked  in  a  pan.  Fruit  cake 
•equires  a  long,  slow  process  of  baking.  An  average  of  1  hour  per 
X)und  in  a  20-count  oven  is  required  for  small  cakes. 

546.  Cake,  layer  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

2  pounds  lard,  butter,  or  drippings. 

4  pounds  sugar. 
16  eggs. 

i  ounce  extract. 

8  pounds  flour. 

6  ounces  baking  powder. 
Beat  the  lard,  sugar,  eggs,  and  extract  together  for  about  10  min- 
ites,  and  add  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  sufiicient  milk  or  water- 
,0  make  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  15-count  oven. 
^'he  name  given  the  cake  will  depend  upon  the  kind  of  filling  used 
►etween  the  layers. 

547.  Cake,  plain  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
6  pounds  flour. 

3  pounds  sugar. 

2  pounds  butter,  lard,  or  drippings. 

5  ounces  baking  powder. 
8  eggs. 

1  ounce  salt, 
i  ounce  extract. 

'  Break  the  eggs  in  a  wooden  bowl  with  the  lard,  sugar,  extract,  and 
n  Ut,  and  whip  to  a  cream;  sift  the  flour  in  on  top  of  the  mixture, 


23G  MANUAL   FOE  ARMY   COOKS. 

and  the  baking  powder  on  top  of  the  flour,  mixing  the  baking  powder 
slightly  with  the  flour  without  disturbing  the  mixture  below.  Add 
sufficient  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  place  in  well-greased  bake 
pans  with  greased  papers  over  the  bottom;  bake  about  40  minutes 
in  an  18-count  oven.  Do  not  remove  from  the  pans  until  cold  (about 
2  hours);  otherwise  it  will  breajf.  This  cake  may  be  served  with  a 
sauce  as  cottage  pudding. 
For  variations  of  this  cake  see  paragraph  322.  ^ 

548.  Raised  caJc-e. 

Ingredients  used: 
1  pound  raised  dough. 
12  ounces  lard  or  butter, 
24  ounces  sugar. 
6  eggs. 

i  ounce  soda,  dissolved  in  2  tablespoonsful  of  hot  water. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  ounce  nutmeg. 
1  ounce  cinnamon. 
\  ounce  cloves.  ' 

1  pound  raisins. 

Take  1  poiind  of  dough  when  it  is  ready  to  punch  down  the  first 
time.  Add  to  it  the  butter  and  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add  the  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  working  them  into  the  dough;  then  the  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water;  then  the  flour.  Sift  the  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  nut- 
meg together  and  add  to  the  mixture.  After  thoroughly  working  put 
in  a  bake  pa'n  or  a  1-gallon  crock.  Place  in  a  proof  box  for  1  hour. 
Bake  in  a  20-count  oven  for  about  2  hours.  Let  cool  before  removing 
from  the  pan. 

549.  Crullers,  1-pound  mixture. 

Ingredients  used : 

2  ounces  butter. 
4  ounces  sugar. 
2  eggs. 

•^  ounce  extract. 
1  pound  flour, 
i  ounce  baking  powder. 
i  pint  water  (good  measure). 


MANUAL    FOB   ARMY    COOKS.  237 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  and  add  the  extract.  Beat  the 
eggs  well  and  add  them  to  the  mixture.  Thoroughly  mix  the  baking 
powder  with  the  flour  and  sift  on  top  of  mixture;  then  add  the  water 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Roll  out  the  dough  to  a  thickness  of  half  an 
inch  and  cut  with  doughnut  cutter.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown  in  deep 
grease.  Immediately  upon  their  removal  from  the  fat,  place  the 
crullers  in  a  colander  to  drain,  after  which  they  may  be  rolled  in 
granulated  sugar  or  placed  on  a  plate  and  dusted  with  powdered 

I  sugar. 

!      The  same  rule  appKes  to  this  as  to  other  baking  powder  mixtures; 

i  to  obtain  good  results  handle  as  little  as  possible.     The  quantity  of 

I  the  liquid  used  depends  upon  the  strength  of  the  flour.    Baking 

I  powder  may  be  increased  or  decreased  in  this  mixture  according  to 

I  Its  strength  as  determined  by  experience. 

I  If  the  dough  is  rolled  to  one-half  inch  thickness  and  cut  with  a 
3^inch  cutter,  the  above  mixture  will  make  19  crullers. 

550.  Cicstard  (I  gaillon). 

Ingredients  used: 

1  quart  eggs. 

2  quarts  milk. 
2  pounds  sugar. 
^  ounce  extract. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  foam  with  the  milk  and  sugar;  pour  in  a  well- 
greased  bake  pan  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven.  If  the  eggs  are  not 
strictly  fresh,  it  may  be  necessary'  to  add  about  2  ounces  of  corn 
starch  to  each  gallon,  and  this  is  ad\isable  in  any  case.  The  number 
of  eggs  may  be  reduced  and  the  amount  of  corn  starch  correspond- 
ingly increased.    Any  flavoring  may  be  used.     Serve  cold. 

551.  Fritters,  com  (for  GO  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
2i  pounds  corn  meal. 
2  pounds  sugar. 
5  pounds  flour. 
4  ounces  baking  powder. 
12  eggs. 

Make  into  a  soft  dough;  drop  portions  of  uniform  size  from  spoon 
into  about  3  inches  of  smoking  fat.     Keep  each  fritter  as  nearly 


238  MANUAL  FOR  ABMT   COOKS. 

round  as  possible  and  have  not  more  than  two-thirds  of  the  surface  of 
the  fat  covered  with  fritters  at  a  time. 

552.  Oatmeal  fritters  (for  60  men). 
, Ingredients  used: 

1  gallon  oatmeal  mush. 

1  pound  sugar. 

8  ounces  baking  powder. 
Mix  the  mush,  sugar,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
To  one-eighth  of  the  mixture  add  1  ounce  of  baking  powder  and  mix 
thoroughly,  then  with  a  tablespoon  cut  pieces  about  half  the  size  of 
an  egg;  drop  into  deep  smoking  fat  ana  fry  until  a  golden  brown. 
After  frying  remove  them  from  the  fat  with  a  skimmer;  put  in  a 
colander  to  drain,  after  which  place  in  a  bake  pan  to  keep  warm. 
Threat  each  eighth  of  the  mixture  in  the  same  manner.  Dust  the\ 
fritters  with  powdered  sugar  and  arrange  in  tiers  on  plates.  To 
improve  them  add  six  eggs  and  a  few  drops  of  extract  to  each  gallon 
of  mush. 

553.  Gelatin  (1  gallon,  for  20  men).  ''* 

Ingredients  used :  ] 

3  ounces  gelatin  dissolved  in  3  pints  water.  .  % 

2  pounds  sugar. 
I  ounce  extract. 

"When  the  gelatin  is  dissblved,  add  5  pints  of  boiling  water  and  the 
sugar.  Allow  to  cool  in  the  air  and  add  the  flavoring  extract.  Then 
set  in  a  temperature  of  about  50°  F.  until  it  jellies.    Ready  to  serve. 

This  is  the  basis  of  all  jellies.  For  instance,  1  pint  of  sherry,  J 
pint  of  brandy,  or  1  quart  of  sliced  fruits,  berries,  etc.,  may  b.e  added 
together  with  the  flavoring  extract  aa  desired,  but  in  no  case  should 
the  whole  exceed  1  gallon. 

654.  Ice,  lemon  (1  gallon,  for  20  men). 
Ingredients  used : 
18  lemons, 
li  pounds  sugar. 
1  ounce  gelatin. 

3  quarts  water. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  extract. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  239 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  lemons  and  grate  the  rinds;  add  these 
and  the  gelatin  and  sugar  to  the  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  cool,  and 
add  the  extract  and  freeze. 

555.  Ice,  orange  (1  gallon,  for  20  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
12  oranges. 
3  quarts  water. 
3  lemons. 
1^  pounds  sugar. 
\  ounce  orange  extract. 

1  ounce  gelatin. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  oranges  and  lemons  into  the  water,  at  the 
same  time  adding  the  gelatin,  three  orange  rinds,  sugar,  and  the 
flavoring  extract.    Add  sufficient  water  to  make  1  gallon  and  freeze. 

556.  Ice^  pineapple  (1  gallon,  for  20  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
3  or  4  pineapples,  according  to  size,  or 

2  No.  2  cans  pineapples, 
li  pounds  sugar. 

2  quarts  water. 

1  ounce  gelatin. 

Place  the  water  on  the  range  and  let  it 'come  to  a  boil;  add  the  juice 
of  the  pineapple  (if  canned  pineapples  are  used),  and  dice  the  pine- 
apples to  about  the  size  of  a  bean,  adding  them  together  with  the 
sugar  and  gelatin  to  the  water.  Allow  to  come  to  a  boil,  then  cool 
and  freeze. 

Raspberries,  gooseberries,  strawberries,  or  any  tart  fruit  may  be 
;U8ed  in  the  same  way.  If  the  fruit  contains  much  acid,  the  amount 
of  water  used  should  be  correspondingly  increased. 

557.  Ice  cream  (1  gallon  for  20  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

3  ounces  flour, 
li  pounds  sugar. 
10  eggs. 

\  ounce  extract. 

2  cans  evaporated  milk. 


240  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY    COOKS. 

Boil  2  quarts  of  water  and  add  a  batter  made  of  the  flour  and  1  pint 
of  water;  then  allow  to  come  to  a  boil  again;  remove  from  the  range, 
and  add  the  sugar,  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  flavoring  extract,  evaporated 
milk,  and  sufficient  water  to  make  1  gallon.  Whip  well,  and  allow 
to  cool  before  putting  in  the  freezer. 

558.  Ice  cream,  chocolate  (for  20  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
3  ounces  chocolate  grated. 

3  ounces  flour. 
1^  pounds  sugar. 

2  cans  evaporated  milk. 

10  eggs. 
Put  the  grated  chocolate  in  2  quarts  of  water  on  the  range  and  let 
come  to  a  boil;  add  a  batter  made  of  the  flour  and  a  pint  of  water;  let 
come  to  a  boil  again  and  remove  from  the  range.  Add  the  eggs  and 
sugar;  whip  well  and  add  the  milk,  together  with  sufficient  water  to 
make  1  gaUon;  allow  to  cool  before  putting  in  the  freezer, 

559.  Ice  cream,  coffee  (1  gallon,  for  20  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
6  ounces  coffee. 
1^  pounds  sugar. 

4  to  10  eggs. 

2  cans  evaporated  milk. 

3  ounces  flour. 

Add  the  coffee  to  1  quart  of  boiling  w^ter;  then  'remove  from 
the  range,  cover  well,  and  allow  to  stand  until  cool.  Make  a  batter 
of  the  flour  and  add  1  pint  of  water  and  place  in  a  quart  of  water  boil- 
ing on  the  range.  Let  come  to  a  boil;  remove  from  the  range,  and 
strain  the  coffee  into  the  mixture  through  a  clean  cloth.  Add  the 
eggs,  sugar,  and  cream.  Whip  well  and  add  sufficient  water  to 
make  1  gallon.     Freeze  as  ordinary  ice  cream. 

560.  Pie  crust  (1-pound  mixture). 

Ingredients  used: 
1  pound  flour. 
9  ounces  lard. 
\  ounce  salt. 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  241 

Rub  the  lard  and  flour  together  in  the  hands  and  mix  well;  add 
sufficient  water  to  make  a  moist  dough.  Have  everything  cool  and 
work  as  little  as  possible.  The  1-pound  mixture  will  make  about 
three  double  crusts. 

About  4|  pounds  of  flour,  2^  pounds  of  lard,  and  1  ounce  of  salt 
will  make  double  crusts  for  1  dozen  9-inch  pies. 

561.  Pie,  apple. 

Ingredients  used : 
1  gallon  stewed  apples  or  3  pounds  evaporated  apples. 
\\  pounds  sugar. 
\  ounce  cinnamon. 
Add  the  sugar  and  spice  to  the  stewed  apples  and  mix  well.     The 
addition  of  a  few  eHces  of  lemon  will  improve  it.    Make  the  piea 
with  a  double  crust  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  15-count  oven. 
The  above  recipe  is  sufficient  for  about  seven  pies. 
Nearly  any  kind  of  fruit  may  be  substituted  for  the  apples. 

562.  Pie,  chocolate  Tneringue. 

Ingredients  used: 

1  gallon  milk. 
\  ounce  salt. 

8  ounces  chocolate. 
16  ounces  flour. 
24  yolks  of  eggs, 

2  pounds  sugar. 

\  ounce  vanilla  extract. 
Mix  seven-eighths  of  the  milk  with  salt  and  chocolate  and  cook 
in  a  boiler  until  smooth  on  top.  Stir  the  flour  into  the  remaining 
1  pint  of  cold  milk  and  pour  this  into  a  double  boiler  with  the  hot 
milk  and  chocolate.  Cook  for  8  or  10  minutes,  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  constantly.  Now  cream  the  eggs  and  sugar  thoroughly. 
Pour  the  hot  mixture  over  the  creamed  eggs  and  sugar.  Replace 
in  double  boiler  and  cook  from  1  to  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Remove  from  the  range  and  when  cool  add  the  vanilla  extract. 


242  MANUAL  FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

After  the  pie  crust  has  been  baked  to  a  light  brown,  fill  the  crust 
with  the  above  mixture  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  as  follows: 
Ingredients  used: 
24  whites  of  eggs. 
^  ounce  salt. 

I  pound  sugar,  powdered. 
^  ounce  vanilla  extract. 
Add  the  salt  to  the  eggs  and  beat  with  a  whip  until  stiff  and  flaky; 
beat  the  sugar  in  slowly,  then  add  the  vanilla,  beating  until  the  froth 
is  stiff.  Place  on  pies  with  the  aid  of  a  smooth  knife  and  brown  on 
upper  shelf  of  a  brisk  oven.  The  mixture  makes  twelve  8-inch 
pies,  and  costs  about  $1. 

563.  Pie  cocoanut  (1-gallon  mixture). 

Ingredients  used: 
20  eggs, 
li  pints  milk. 
2|  pounds  sugar, 
i  ounce  extract. 

1  pound  butter. 

5  pounds  coconut. 

Beat  the  eggs,  milk,  sugar,  and  extract  together,  and  add  sufficient 
water  to  make  1  gallon.  Prepare  about  12  or  14  single  crusts  and 
Bpread  about  6  ounces  of  coconut  in  each  crust;  then  pour  in  the 
mixture  prepared  as  above,  adding  to  each  pie  a  piece  of  butter 
about  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Bake  in  a  15-count  oven  about  20 
minutes. 

564.  Pie,  lemon  meringue  (1-gallon  mixture). 

Ingredients  used : 
2i  quarts  water. 

2  pounds  granulated  sugar. 

6  to  10  lemons, 
i  pound  butter. 

12  ounces  cornstarch. 
16  eggs. 

1  can  evaporated  milk, 
i  pound  powdered  sugar. 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  243 

Add  the  juice  and  rinds  of  the  lemons  to  the  water;  boil  5  minutes 
and  remove  the  rinds;  add  the  sugar  and  butter;  mix  the  corn- 
starch in  a  pint  of  water  and  add,  stirring  in  quickly;  let  come  to 
a  boil  and  remove  from  the  range.  WTiip  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
add  to  them  the  milk,  and  sufficient  water  to  make  1  gallon.  This 
mixture  is  sufficient  for  eight  pies.  Take  the  usual  crust,  one  for 
each  plate;  roll  out  as  usual  and  prick  a  few  times  with  a  fork ;  bake 
the  crusts  until  light  brown  and  pour  in  the  mixture.  Let  stand  for 
a  while  and  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  powdered  sugar  to  a 
cream.  Place  about  one-fourth  inch  of  the  beaten  eggs  over  each 
pie  and  coat  with  granulated  sugar  if  desired.  Bake  in  a  12-count 
oven  about  3  minutes, 

565.  Pie,  vinegar  (1-gallon  mixture). 

Ingredients  used : 

5  pints  water, 
i  pint  vinegar. 
2\  pounds  sugar. 

6  eggs. 

10  ounces  cornstarch. 

Mix  the  water,  vinegar,  and  sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil  on  the 
range.  Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  1  pint  of  cold  water;  then  beat 
up  the  eggs,  adding  them  to  the  cornstarch  and  water.  Add  the 
wnole  to  the  boiling  mixture  on  the  range.  Stir  well  with  a  wire 
whip .  Cook  about  3  minutes  and  remove  from  range .  There  should 
be  sufficient  hot  water  added  to  the  boiling  mixture  to  make  1  gallon. 
Pie  crust  must  be  filled  while  mixture  is  hot,  same  as  lemon  pies. 

This  mixture  is  sufficient  for  eight  pies. 

566.  Pie,  mince.  For  each  pie  use  one- third  pound  of  mince-meat 
and  two-thirds  liquid.  The  liquid  may  be  either  sugar,  sirup, 
molasses,  cider,  or  a  mixture  of  one-tenth  brandy  and  nine-tenths 
water.  Alix  the  mince-meat  and  liquid  thoroughly  and  use  a  double 
pie  crust;  bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  15-count  oven. 


244  MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

To  make  mince-meat. 

Ingredients  used : 

5  pounds  beef  (cooked). 

6  pounds  suet. 
20  pounds  dried  apples. 
10  pounds  dried  peaches. 
1  pound  cinnamon. 
^  pound  cloves. 
1  ounce  black  pepper. 
10  pounds  sugar. 

1  pound  salt. 
10  pounds  seeded  prunes. 

And,  if  desirea — 

5  pounds  currants. 
15  pounds  raisins.  "^^ 

2  pounds  candied  citron. 
1  pound  lemon  peel. 

1  pound  orange  peel. 
Run  the  beef,  suet,  apples,  peaches,  and  prunes  through  the  meat 
chopper,  each  separately;  mix  with  the  spices,  adding  only  sufficient 
water  to  moisten;  pack  in  a  suitable  keg  that  has  been  thoroughly 
cleaned.  This  preparation  is  suitable  for  use  in  garrison  or  in  the 
field  and  will  keep  as  long  as  water  is  kept  from  it.  Five  pounds  are 
sufficient  for  15  pies,  the  above  recipe  being  sufficient  for  150  pies. 

567.  Pie,  pumpkin  or  squash. 
Ingredients  used : 
25  pounds  pumpkin. 

6  pounds  sugar. 
,  20  eggs. 

1  nutmeg. 

I  ounce  cloves. 

I  ounce  ginger. 

1  ounce  salt. 

2  cans  evaporated  milk. 

Peel  and  clean  the  pumpkin;  cut  into  pieces  about  2  ounces  each; 
pour  1  inch  of  water  into  a  boiler;  then  put  in  the  pumpkin.  One 
jmch  of  water  will  be  sufficient,  even  though  the  boiler  be  filled  with 


MANUAL  FOB  ABMT   COOKS.  245 

pumpkin,  as  pumpkin  (or  squash)  contains  much  water.  Boil 
slowly  until  done,  about  40  minutes.  Then  mash  well,  add  the 
beaten  eggs,  sugar,  milk,  and  spices  and  mix  well;  make  the  pies 
without  a  top  crust,  and  bake  slowly.  This  recipe  may  be  improved 
by  the  addition  of  a  small  amount  of  cream.  Sufficient  for  about 
15  pies. 

568.  Prunes,  stewed  (for  60  njen). 

Ingredients  used : 

5  pounds  prunes. 

Place  in  a  receptacle  with  about  three  times  their  bulk  of  water 
and  set  on  a  part  of  the  range  where  they  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil. 
After  two  hours  remove  and  season  \^dth  cinnamon,  cloves,  or  nutmeg 
and  a  little  vinegar.     Serve  cold  if  practicable. 

569.  Pudding,  apple  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
4  pounds  apples,  diced. 
16  pounds  bread. 
4  pounds  sugar. 
2  ounces  cinnamon. 
Stew  the  apples  in  1^  gallons  water,  slice  the  bread  and  toast  it; 
spread  the  toast  in  the  bottom  of  a  well-greased  bake  pan ;  then  spread 
over  it  a  layer  of  the  apples  sprinkled  with  sugar  and  cinnamon; 
continue  alternate  layers  of  toast  and  apples  until  all  are  used;  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  about  20  minutes  and  serve  with  a  plain  or  caramel 
sauce. 

Nearly  any  kind  of  fresh  or  dried  fruit  maybe  used  and  the  pudding 
named  accordingly. 

570.  Pudding,  bread,  with  sauce  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
12  pounds  bread  crusts. 
2  pounds  dried  fruit. 
2  pounds  sugar. 

1  ounce  cinnamon. 

2  cans  evaporated  milk. 

6  eggs. 


246  MANUAL  FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

Soak  the  bread  in  cold  water  and  squeeze  out  with  the  hands; 
season  with  sugar  and  cinnamon ;  mix  well  and  spread  about  1  inch 
deep  in  pans;  over  this  spread  apout  ].  inch  of  stewed  fruit;  then 
another  layer  of  the  bread;  over  the  top  spread  sugar  and  cinnamon; 
bake  about  40  minutes  in  a  medium  hot  oven.  Serve  hot  or  cold 
with  cream  sauce.  This  makes  an  excellent  dish  and  gives  an  op- 
portunity to  use  all  the  scraps  of  bread  on  hand.  A  better  pudding 
may  be  made  by  dipping  the  bread  in  milk  and  not  squeezing  it  out. 
It  will  be  still  further  improved  by  adding  eggs. 

571.  Pudding,  com  starch  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
4  pounds  sugar. 
1  ounce  salt. 

3  packages  com  starch. 

4  cans  evaporated  milk. 

1  ounce  flavoring  extract. 

Dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  about  3  quarts  of  cold  water;  add  3 

r, lions  of  boiling  water,  the  sugar,  salt,  and  milk.  After  cooking 
minutes  remove  from  the  range,  cool,  and  add  the  extract.  This 
pudding  is  improved  by  the  substitution  of  milk  for  water  and  the 
addition  of  about  four  eggs  to  each  gallon.  Pour  into  vegetable 
dishes,  and  when  cool  set  in  ice  box;  serve  cold  with  milk. 

572.  Pudding,  plum  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

2  pounds  su^ar. 

3  pounds  dried  fruit,  chopped  fine. 

3  pounds  beef  suet,  chopped  fine. 
1^  ounces  salt. 

{  ounce  cloves. 
1  ounce  cinnamon, 
i  nutmeg. 

4  ounces  baking  powder. 
6  pounds  flour. 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  beef  suet,  fruit,  and  spices  in 
the  order  named;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  water  and  add  together  with 
sufiBcient  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  use  5-pound  lard  pails 
or  pudding  cans  and  fill  each  about  two-thirds  full  of  the  mixture. 


I 


MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  247 

If  no  lids  are  provided,  tie  a  cloth  tightly  over  the  top  of  each  pail 
or  can.  Place  in  a  boiler  containing  sufficient  boiling  water  to  one- 
third  submerge  the  pails  or  cans  and  maintain  the  water  at  about  the 
same  height  during  the  process  of  cooking  by  the  addition  of  more 
boiling  water  when  necessary.  Boil  from  five  to  eight  hours.  Re- 
move from  the  cans,  split  lengthwise  through  the  center,  and  serve 
in  large  vegetable  dishes,  with  a  dressing  prepared  as  follows: 

Sauce  for  plum  pudding. 
Ingredients  used: 
1^  pounds  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  lemon  extract. 
^  pint  vinegar. 
1  can  evaporated  milk. 
^  ounce  salt. 

4  ounces  starch  or  flour. 
Dissolve  the  sugar  in  3  quarts  of  water;  let  come  to  a  boil  and  add 

a  batter  made  of  the  corn  starch  or  flour  and  one-half  pint  of  cold 
water;  add  the  vinegar,  milk,  extract,  and  a  pinch  of  soda. 

573.  Pudding,  rice  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

5  pounds  rice. 
15  eggs. 

3  cans  evaporated  milk. 
5  pounds  sugar. 

\  ounce  extract. 
Boil  the  rice  for  a  few  minutes  and  then  sti-ain  through  a  sieve;  add 
the  eggs,  cream,  and  sugar,  witli  a  pinch  of  salt  and  sufficient  water 
to  cover  about  one-half  inch;  bake  slowly  in  the  oven  until  slightly 
brown.  The  rice  should  not  be  overboiled,  as  the  kernels  should 
remain  separate  and  firm.  Serve  with  cold  or  hot  sauce  flavored 
with  lemon. 

574.  Pudding,  tapioca  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  iised: 
2  gallons  cold  water. 
2  pounds  tapioca. 

4  pounds  sugar. 

2  pounds  dried  fruit. 


248  MANUAL  FOE  AEMY   COOKS. 

Add  the  water  to  the  tapioca  and  let  simmer  on  end  of  range  for 
about  two  hours;  then  add  the  fruit,  and  if  desired,  12  well-beaten 
€gg8.  The  fruit  and  the  eggs  should  be  beaten  into  the  mixture 
TirMle  hot. 

Raisins,  currants,  or  any  tart  berries  or  fruit  may  be  used. 

SMALL   DOUGHS. 

675.  Potato  yeast  (1-gallon  mixture). 
Ingredients  used: 
4  pounds  potatoes. 
2  oimces  sugar. 

1  ounce  salt. 

4  ounces  flour. 

2  ounces  dried  yeast. 

Clean  potatoes  thoroughly  and  boil  until  well  done.    Place  the 
sugar  and  flour  in  a  clean  wooden  or  earthen-ware  receptacle.    Strain 
the  water  from  the  potatoes  into  another  vessel.     Place  the  hot 
potatoes  on  top  of  the  sugar  and  flour,  mash  them  and  mix  thoroughly. ' 
Add  hot  potato  water,  mix  well,  and  set  aside  to  cool.     Place  dried." 
yeast  in  1  pint  of  cold  water  and  soak.    When  the  mixture  is  about;' 
the  temperature  of  the  hand  add  the  dried  yeast  and  sufficient  water*^ 
to  make  1  gallon.    Mix  thoroughly.     Set  in  a  temperature  of  about- 
85°  F.  to  prove.  ^  .  ' 

This  yeast  will  require  approximately  10  hours  to  mature,  depend- 
ing on  the  temperature,  and  if  after  maturing  it  is  kept  in  a  tempera- 
ture below  60°  F.,  will  keep  for  several  days. 

576.  Small  dough  (1-gallon  mixture).  To  make  the  sponge. — Soak 
three  yeast  cakes  in  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water  until  soft  (or  use  1 
pint  of  stock  yeast  prepared  in  the  kitchen)  and  add  two  medium- 
sized  potatoes  which  have  been  boiled  until  well  done,  and  add 
enough  lukewarm  water  to  make  one-half  gallon.  Mate  into  a  stiff 
batter,  by  adding  about  6  pounds  of  flour,  and  let  rise  and  fall. 
When  it  has  dropped  about  1  inch,  add  sufficient  water  to  make  1 
gallon;'  make  a  dough  by  adding  about  8  pounds  of  flour  and  the 
following  ingredients: 


MANUAL   FOB  ARMY   COOKS.  249 


Jenny  LInds  or 

sweet  fruit 

dough. 


Plain 
sweet 
dough. 


Bait ounces.. 

Sugar pounds . . 

Butter,  lard, or  drippings i '.  .do 

Eggs  1 number. . 

Raisins  i pounds. . 

Currants  i, do 

Extracts  i ." ounces . . 


3 

lion 

2,  IJ,  1,  or  i 

10,  6,  or  4 

3,  2,  or  1 

3,  2,  or  1 

lori 


1  Where  two  or  more  quantities  are  given  in  the  same  column,  correspondingly 
large  or  small  amounts  should  be  used  together.  The  richness  of  the  product  depends 
upon  the  quantities  of  such  ingredients  used. 

Note.— The  temperature  of  the  sponge,  of  the  dough,  and  of  the  buns  while  proving 
should  be  as  near  to  80'  F.  as  possible. 

Let  the  dough  rise  to  about  three  timeaits  size,  punch  down  work 
over  and  permit  to  rise  to  twice  its  original  "size.  Then  work  into 
1-pound  loaves  (round),  weighing  the  dough  on  the  scales,  and  let 
prove  for  about  15  or  20  minutes.  Then,  for  small  doughs,  cut  into 
eight  equal  parts.  This  can  best  be  done  by  rolling  the  proof  ball 
or  loaf,  cut  into  a  long  c^^linder,  dividing  it  in  halves  with  the  scraper, 
aubdividing  each  half  into  halves,  and  then  in  a  similar  way  sub- 
dividing again.  The  above  recipe  is  sufficient  for  about  180  buna, 
Dr  about  22  Jenny  Linds. 

577.  To  handle  a  sponge  in  cold  weather. — The  temperature  of  the 
room,  flour,  and  water  should  be  such  that  the  sponge,  when  com- 
pleted, will  have  a  temperature  of  from  85°  to  90  F.  (See  par.  77, 
Part  II.)  Place  the  sponge  in  a  suitable  vessel  and  the  vessel  in  a 
fireless  cooker.  If  one  is  not  available,  select  another  vessel  about 
3  inches  larger  in  diameter  and  6  inches  deeper;  j)lace  cloths  or 
sacks  in  the  bottom  of  the  larger  vessel  to  a  depth  of  2  inches.  Then 
put  the  vessel  containing  the  sponge  into  the  larger  vessel  and  close 
the  top  of  the  smaller,  packing  cloths  or  sacks  over  the  inner  and 
outer  vessels.  Close  the  top  of  the  outer  vessel  and  put  it  in  a  warm 
place  in  the  kitchen.  The  sponge,  thus  protected,  will  be  subltected 
to  only  a  slight  variation  in  temperature  d  uring  the  night.  Dry  hay, 
grass,  or  straw  may  be  sued  in  lieu  of  cloths  or  sacks.  This  arrange- 
ment is  similar  in  action  to  a  fireless  cooker  and  is  especially  recom- 
mended for  camp. 


250  MANUAL  FOB  ARMY   COOKS. 

578.  Biscuits  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
10  pounds  flour. 
1^  pounds  fat  (lard  preferred). 
2  ounces  sugar. 

2  ounces  salt. 

10  ounces  baking  powder. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  sift;  work  in  the  lard  and  mix 
thoroughly;  add  suflicient  water  to  make  a  soft  dough;  roll  out 
about  one-half  inch  thickj  cut  out  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  place  in 
bake  pan  about  one-half  inch  apart;  bake  in  a  12-count  oven  about 
10  minutes;   serve  hot  with  butter  or  sirup. 

"VSTien  using  baking  powder,  use  cold  water  (or  milk)  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place  before  baking. 

579.  Bread,  com  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 
5  pounds  com  meal.  . 

3  pounds  flour.  jj 
li  ounces  sugar.  1 
8  ounces  fat  (lard  or  drippings). 

8  ounces  baking  powder.  * 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  sift;    work  in  the  lard  and  mix 

thoroughly;   add  sufficient  wat«r  to  make  a  soft  dough;   spread  in 

bake  pans  to  depth  of  2  inches,  and  bake  in  a  15-count  oven  about 

40  minutes. 

580.  Buns,  com  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used: 

4  pounds  com  meal. 
1  quart  yeast. 

4  ounces  salt. 

i  pound  fat.  ) 

1  pint  sirup. 

5  quarts  water. 

Let  the  water  come  to  a  boil  and  whip  the  com  meal  in  slowly  to 
prevent  the  formation  of  lumps;  let  boil  for  5  minutes;  when  cool 
add  the  yeast,  salt,  fat,  and  sirup ;  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough,  and  handle  the  same  as  other  yeast  preparations. 


MANUAL   FOB  ABMY   COOKS.  251 

581.  Buns,  currant  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

3  pounds  currants. 

^  pound  sugar. 

I  pound  lard. 
Prepare  a  1-gallon  mixture  as  in  paragraph  576,  using  in  the  dou^h 
the  ingredients  above  named  in  addition  to  those  used  in  the  plain 
dough  mixture.  After  proving  and  molding  into  loaves,  divide  each 
loaf  into  eight  equal  parts,  and  round  up  each  piece;  place  in  pan 
about  1  inch  apart;  glaze  the  tops  with  melted  lard;  set  in  a  tem- 
perature of  80°  F. ;  let  rise  to  twice  their  size  and  bake  in  a  medium 
oven  (18-count)  for  40  minutes, 

582.  Buns,  Graham  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 

7  pounds  Graham  flour. 

\  pound  sugar. 
Prepare  a  1-gallon  mixtiu-e  as  in  paragraph  576,  using  in  the  dough 
the  Graham  flour  in  place  of  an  equal  amount  of  wheat  flour  and 
the  additional  quarter  pound  of  sugar.  After  proving  and  molding 
the  loaves,  divide  each  loaf  into  eight  equal  parts  and  round  up  each 
piece;  place  in  a  bake  pan  about  1  inch  apart;  glaze  the  tops  with 
melted  lard  or  drippings;  set  in  a  temperature  of  80°  F.;  let  rise  to 
twice  their  size,  and  bake  in  an  18-count  oven  about  40  minutes. 

583.  Buns,  sugar  (for  60  men).  Prepare  a  1-gallon  mixture  as  in 
paragraph  576;  after  proving  and  molding,  divide  each  loaf  into 
eight  equal  parts  and  round  up  each  piece;  place  in  the  pan  about  2 
inches  apart;  glaze  the  tops  with  melted  lard;  let  prove  about  6 
minutes;  flatten  the  tops  with  the  hand  and  sprinkle  well  with 
sugar;  set  in  a  temperature  of  80°  F.:  let  rise  to  twice  their  size, 
and  bake  in  a  15-count  oven  about  15  minutes. 

584.  Buns,  tea  (for  60  men).  Use  the  plain  sweet-dough  mixture 
as  in  paragraph  576,  and  prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  currant  buns, 
omitting  the  additional  ingredients  used  in  the  latter. 

685.  Cake,  apple  (for  60  men). 
Ingredients  used : 
12  pounds  fresh  apples. 


252  MANUAL   FOR  ARMY   COOKS. 

Prepare  a  1-gallon  mixture  of  sweet  dough  as  in  paragraph  576.1. 
After  proving  and  molding,  roll  out  in  pieces  of  about  1  pound  each';|) 
and  about  8  inches  square;  place  in  the  bake  pans,  peel  the  apple?^) 
and  cut  into  very  thin  slices;  place  in  thin  layers  over  the  top; 
sprinkle  with  a  little  cinnamon  and  sugar;  let  prove  to  twice  theil^^' 
size,  and  bake  in  a  20-count  oven  about  30  minutes.  If  desired,  Sk'f, 
custard  consisting  of  one-third  eggs  and  two-thirds  milk,  with  abouti 
2  pounds  of  sugar  to  the  gallon,  may  be  poured  over  the  cake  before|! 
baking.  * 

Kudien,  apple. — Prepare  a  1-gallon  mixture  of  sweet  dough  as  in| 
paragraph  576,  molding  it  into  pieces  weighing  about  1  pound  each^ 
let  prove  to  twice  their  size;  roll  out  three-fourths  of  the  loave^ 
about  the  size  of  a  pie  tin  and  about  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness;'-^ 
put  in  pie  tin  and  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  cooked  apples,  seasoned 
highly  with  cinnamon  and  sugar;  then  use  the  remainder  of  the 
dough,  cut  into  strips  weighing  about  1  ounce  each,  by  placing  the; 
strips  over  the  fruit,  each  strip  extending  entirely  across  the  tin^; 
and  press  the  ends  against  the  dough  in  the  tins  so  that  they  will' 
adhere.    Bake  in  a  20-count  oven  about  30  minutes.  j 

586.  Cake,  coffee  (for  60  men).  } 

Ingredients  used : 
2  pounds  sugar. 
2  ounces  cinnamon. 
Prepare  a  1-gallon  mixture  of  sweet  dough  as  in  paragraph  576; 
after  proving  and  molding,  roll  out  into  pieces  about  8  inches  square,^ 
place  in  a  bake  pan,  and  glaze  the  tops  with  melted  lard  or  drip- 
pings; sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed;  let  prove  in  a 
temperature  of  80°  F.  until  they  double  in  size;  bake  in  a  12-count 
oven  about  20  minutes. 

587.  Jenny  Linds  (for  60  men).    Prepare  a  1-gallon  mixture  as  in  • 
paragraph  576;  after  proving  and  molding  into  loaves,  roll  out  in' 
circular  form  and  about  one-half  inch  in  thickness;  glaze  the  top 
with  melted  lard  and  fold  together  so  that  the  upper  portion  will 
hardly  cover  the  lower  portion;  let  prove  in  a  temperature  of  80°  F. 
until  they  double  in  size;  bake  in  a  22-count  oven  about  40  minutes. 


MANUAL  FOR  ARMY   COOKS.  253 

588.  Parkerhouse  rolls  (for  60  men).  Prepare  a  l-gallon  mixture 
as  in  paragraph  576;  after  proving  and  molding,  cut  each  loaf  into 
eight  equal  parts;  round  up  and  let  prove  about  six  minutes;  roll 
out  aboKt  one-half  inch  thick;  make  a  crease  through  the  middle 
of  each  piece;  glaze  over  one-half  of  each  piece  with  melted  lard; 
fold  and  press  the  edges  together.  Place  in  a  well-greased  pan 
about  2  inches  apart;  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  (12-count)  for 
about  15  minutes. 

589.  Twists  (for  60  men).  Prepare  a  l-gallon  mixture  of  sweet 
dough  as  in  576;  after  proving  and  molding,  roll  each  loaf  out  to 
about  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness;  then  sprinkle  one-half  with 
currants,  sugar,  and,  cinnamon,  and  fold  the  other  half  upon  it, 
press  down  slightly  and  then  cut  into  strips  about  1  inch  wide; 
twist  from  one  end  and  place  in  the  pan  so  they  will  just  touch 
each  other;  prove  in  a  temperature  of  80**  F.  until  it  doubles  in 
size,  and  bake  in  a  lo  or  18  count  oven  about  35  minutes. 

DRINKS. 

590.  Cocoa  or  chocolate  (1  gallon). 

Ingredients  used : 

3  to  5  ounces  cocoa  or  chocolate. 
5  ounces  sugar. 

4  ounces  evaporated  milk. 
i                   1  gallon  (scant)  of  water. 

Bring  the  water  to  a  boil,  add  the  cocoa  and  boil  five  minutes; 
add  the  milk  and  sugar  to  taste.  Whip  slightly  with  a  wire  whipper 
before  serving.  One  gallon  is  sufficient  for  from  6  to  10  men. 
Serve  hot. 

591.  Coffee  (for  60  men).  Coffee  is  generally  served  for  breakfast 
and  dinner,  and  should  always  be  prepared  fresh  at  leafet  once  a  day. 

The  following  method  is  suggested: 

Breakfast:  Ptit  7i  gallons  of  water  in  the  boiler  and  let  come  to  a 
boil;  add -2^  pounds  roasted  and  ground  coffee,  and  remove  from 
the  range  immediately.  Allow  to  stand  15  minutes;  add  1  pint  of 
cold  water,  and  allow  to  stand  a  few  minutes  longer  before  serving. 
To  sweeten,  add  4  or  5  ounces  of  sugar  to  each  gallon. 


254  MANUAL  FOR  ARMY  COOKS. 

Dinner:  Allow  the  grounds  to  remain  in  the  boiler  after  breakfast 
and  add  sniiicient  water  to  make  7 J  gallons;  allow  to  come  to  a  boil 
and  add  3  ounces  of  coffee,  roasted  and  ground,  for  each  gallon  of 
fresh  water  used ;  remove  from  the  range  and  allow  to  stand  15  min- 
utes; add  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  allow  to  stand  a  few  minutes 
before  serving. 

Coffee  should  be  made  for  immediate  use  only. 

To  parch -or  roast  coffee:  Place  about  10  pounds  of  green  coffee 
in  a  bake  pan  and  set  in  a  brisk  oven,  leaving  the  door  on  the  first 
notch  until  the  coffee  is  thoroughly  dried.  Close  the  oven  and  stir 
frequently  with  a  spoon  until  nicely  browned. 

592.  Lemonade  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
7i  gallons  ice  water. 
4  pounds  sugar. 
60  lemons. 
Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  lemons  with  a  lemon  squeezer  and 
add  to  the  water;  sweeten  to  taste  and  stir  thoroughly  before  serving. 
Serve  ice  cold. 

593.  Tea  (for  60  men). 

Ingredients  used : 
7 1  gallons  fresh  water. 
3|  ounces  good  tea. 
Allow  the  water  to  come  to  a  boil;  remove  from  range;  suspend 
the  tea  from  the  top  of  the  boiler  in  a  muslin  cloth  and  allow  to 
stand  in  the  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.     The  cloth  should  be 
sufficiently  large  to  give  the  tea  plenty  of  room,  so  that  the  boiling 
water  will  penetrate  all  portions  of  it.     Remove  the  leaves  and 
serve  immediately. 

Iced  tea:  Using  2  gallons  of  water  and  5  ounces  of  tea;  prepare  as 

in  the  preceding  recipe.    Just  before  serving,  add  sufficient  cold 

water  to  make  10  gallons.     The  juice  of  a  dozen  lemons  may  be 

added,  if  desired. 

To  sweeten  tea,  add  about  4  ounces  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  tea. 


INDEX. 


A. 

Paragraph. 

Accounts,  ration 198 

Albumen 2,214,216 

Albumenoids 261 

Allspice 3 

A  m  bergris 4 

Aniline 5 

Aniseed 6 

Annatto 7 

Apple  and  celery  salad,  recipe 519 

Apple  cake,  recipe 585 

Apple  cobbler^  recipe 541 

Apple  pie,  recipe 540, 561 

Apple  pudding,  i-ecipe 569 

Apple  roll,  recipe 540 

Apple  sauce,  recipe 542 

Arrowroot 8 

.  Asparagus,  recipe 463 

'  B. 

Bacon 192 

Bacon,  individual  cooking  of 307 

Bacon,  recipes 375-377 

Baggage  car  with  field  range 316 

Baking : 9 

Baking  in  improvised  oVen 312 

Baking  powder 10, 202 

Baking  temperature 11, 251, 252 

Barbecue 12 

Barley  soup,  recipe 337 

Barley  ana  tomato  soup,  recipe - 338 

Basil t 13 

Baste - 14 

Batter 15 

Batter  cakes,  recipe 325 

Bay  leaves 16 

Bean  component 2C8 

Bean  salad,  recipe 520, 537 

255 


256  INDEX. 

Paragraph. 

Bean  soup,  recipe 339 

Beans,  chili 203,306 

Beaas,  cooked  in  trench,  recipe 468 

Beans,  issue 203, 273, 306 

Beans,  kidney , 208 

Beans,  lima 203,306 

Beans,  puree  of,  recipe 357, 358 

Beans,  recipes 464-468 

Beef,  age  of -. 229 

Beef,  boiled 230, 250 

Beef  component 199, 225-229 

Beef,  corned 223, 230 

Beef,  cutting  of 231, 232 

Beef  extract 17 

Beef,  fillet  of 79 

Beef,  forequarter  of 232,236,237,238,239 

Beef  hearts,  recipes 387, 388  j 

Beef ,  hindquarters  of 231,233,234,235 

Beef,  individual  cooking  of 307 

Beef  juice 18 

Beef,  quality  of 229 

Beef,  recipes , 1 378-396 

Beef,  sex  of 228 

Beef,  side  of  heifer 240 

Beef,  specifications  for 226-229 

Beef  soup 340 

Beef  steak,  recipes 397-401 

Beef,  stew,  Irish 440 

fieef  stock 181-200-211^ 


Beef  tea 

Beef,  Turkish,  recipe 402-  Ci 

Beef,  uses  of  various  parts 230  Ci 

Beets 204  C« 

Beet  salad,  recipe 521  |Ca 

Beets,  boiled,  recipe 469  |Ca 

Beets,  pickled,  salad,  recipe 531  'Ca 

Bench 20iCj 

Bills  of  fare,  daily  allowance  for 198  jCa 

Bills  of  fare,  individual  cooking 303, 304  Ca 

Bills  of  fare  on  the  march 282  iCa 

Bills  of  fare  on  railroad  trains 314, 317, 318  jCa 

Bills  of  fare  on  transports 323  JCi 

Biscuits,  recipe 578  ta 

Bisk  (or  bisque) 21,jCa 

Blanch : : - 28? :« 

Blanks  for  mess  accounts 198'  Ju 

Blood  heat ^^ 

BoUers 277}|ii 

Boiling. 


Paragraph. 

Bologna  sausage,  recipe 430 

!  Bouillon 25 

.  Brains .^  26 

Brains  with  eggs,  recipe 403 

Brains  without  ^gs,  recipe 404 

;  Braising 27 

Bread 201,275 

Bread,  aerated 1 

Bread,  com,  recipe 579 

Bread,  crackling 55 

;  Bread,  cream 56 

Bread,  hard 201 

Bread  on  the  march 282 

!  Bread  on  transports 322 

I  Bread  pudding,  recipe 570 

Bread,  stale 77 

Breakfast  dishes,  recipes 324-336 

Breakfast  foods,  recipe 336 

Broiling • 28 

|. Brown  Betty,  recipe 543 

j.Bucket,  3  gallon 301 

Buckwheat  cakes,  recipe 326 

Bull  meat 163 

iB  uns 273 

iBuns,  recipes 580-584 

Putter ^ 2i0 

Cabbage 204, 255, 273 

Cabbage,  recipes 470-472 

Cabbage  salad,  recipe. ." 538 

Cage,  swinging 312 

Cake,  recipes 322, 544-548 

Cake,  coffee  or  apple,  recipes 585-586 

Cakes,  hot,  batter,  buckwheat,  and  com,  recipes 325-327 

rakes,  fried 87 

Calories 29 

::amp  cooking 280-312 

Campaign,  messing  in • 283 

;amp,  messing  in  permanent 280 

'amp,  messing  In  temporary 281 

ed  goods 282 

s,  garble 270, 271,280 

nvas  for  floor 271 

rs 30 

,  baggage  with  field  range 316 

r,  detadiment  kitchen 317 

ar,  standard  kitchen 313,314 

aramel 31 


258  INDEX. 

Paragraph. 

Caraway  seed 32 

Carbohydrates 33, 258, 263 

Carcass  of  cow 233,234, 236, 237, 2$ 

Carcass  of  heifer ! 2l( 

Carcass  of  mutton 243, ; 

Carcass  of  pork 241, ' 

Carcass  of  steer 233, 235, 236, 238, ', 

Care  of  equipment j 

Carrots 204, J 

Carrots,  recipes '. 273, 5 

Casein. 


^ 


Casing 

Cassia M 

Cauliflower. 2w 

Celery 27t 

Celery  salad,  recipe 

Celery  salt 

Centigrade 

Chervil 

Chicken,  recipes 405-4J 

Chicken  salad 5^ 

Chicken  soup 

Chicory 

Chili 41 

Chili  con  carne,  recipe 416 

Chili  powder 41 

Chives 42 

Chocolate •. 43,304,305 

Chocolate,  recipes 590 

Chocolate  meringue  pie,  recipe 562 

Chops,  lamb 112 

Chowder 44 

Chutney 45 

Cinnamon 4€ 

Citron 47 

Clam  chowder,  recipe 342 

Cleanliness  in  cooking 248 

Cleanliness  of  kitchen  and  dining  room 271, 273 

Clothing  of  cooks : 270,274i 

Cloves 4i 


Cochineal 4J 

Cocoa 50,304,3a' 

Cocoa,  recipe 59{ 

Cocoanut  pie,  recipe 56J 

Cockroaches 27] 

Codfish  cakes,  recipe 451 

Codfish  chowder,  recipe 34( 

Codfish,  salt,  boiled,  recipe 45- 

Coffee....... 206, 277, 299, 30J 


INDEX.  259 

Paragraph. 

Coffee,  recipe 591 

Ck)miiia : 51 

Company  commander 198, 270, 302 

Components  of  the  ration 192, 195, 196, 198-212 

Compound ^ 52 

Concentration  camps'  rations 192 

Condiments 53 

Cooker,  Pintsch  gas 318 

Cooking,  by  steam 320, 321 

Cooking,  cleanliness  In 249, 271 

Cooking,  field 279. 2X3 

Cooking,  individual 283, 301-309 

Cooking,  methods  of 250-256, 273 

Cooking,  sii:e  of  articles 250 

Cooking,  uniform  texture  in 2=io 

Cooking  utensils 270, 271 

Cooks,  cleanliness  of ' 271 .  273 

Cooks  clothing 270. 274 

Cooks,  duties  of 196. 22.5, 272, 276. 27? 

Cook's  police,  duties  of 270, 271, 276, 27S 

Cooks,  suggestions  to 273 

I  Com  beef 230 

Com  bread,  recipe 579 

i  Cora  buns,  recipe / .580 

Com  cakes,  recipe 544 

:  Com,  canned 475 

'.  Com  chowder 344 

Com,  dried ,. 203, 306 

.  Com  fritters,  recipe '. 551 

i  Com,  green 273 

F  Com,  green,  recipe 476 

i  Com  meal 201 ,  306 

[  Cornstarch  pudding,  recipe. 571 

I  Cottonseed  oil 1 13 

I  Cow  carcass 233, 234, 236, 237, 239 
Cracklings 1 .54 
Crackling  bread .55 
Crab  salad,  recipe .524 

Cranberry  sauce,  recipe 44.8 

;  Cream  bread 56 

Cream  of  cabbage,  or  celery,  or  tomato  soup,  recipes 345-346, 347 

Croquettes 57 

Croutons 58 

Crullers .59 

•Cmllers,  recipe .549 

Crumb : 60 

Cucumber  salad,  recipe 525 


260  INDEX. 

Paragraph. 

Cup,  capacity  of 301 

Currant  buns,  recipe 581 

Curry  powder 6U 

Custard,  recipe SSft!*' 

Cutlets est^ 

D.  ; 

Daily  report  (model) 19»;J 

Daily  mess  statement  (model) 198!| 

Deep  lard 256^ 

Desserts •- 212^ 

Desserts,  recipes 540-574K 

Details  for  kitchen 26w| 

Deviled 63'^ 

Deviled  meat 64 

Diet,  balanced , 266, 267, 268 

Dining  room  orderly 275, 278 

Dining  room,  police  of 275, 277 

Dishes 275,276,277 

Dough 65,191 

Dough  break 66 

Doughnuts 67 

Doughs,  small,  recipes 575-589 

Dredge 68 

Dressing,  beef,  recipe - 383 

Dressings,  recipes 518-539 

Drinks,  recipes 590-593 

Drippings : -> 211, 256, 273 " 

Duck  roast,  recipe 411 

Duties  of  cooks 196, 225, 272, 276, 27» 

Duties  of  cook's  police 270, 271, 276, 27& 

Duties  of  mess  sergeant 195, 196, 197, 198, 207, 225, 266, 270, 275, 276, 278, 315 

Dumplings 69< 

E.  "f 

Eggs 70 

Egg  plant,  recipe 477 

Elrancho  stew,  recipe 437 

Emergency  ration 192,  SlOi" 

Entree 7t 

Equipment,  A 297" 

Equipment,  care  of • 277 

Estragon  or  tarragon 72 

Expedients,  field , 311,312 

Extractives ■  —  73, 261 

F. 

Fahrenheit 74 

Farina 75 

Fat - 218,258,2d2 


INDEX.  261 

Paragraph. 

Pennel 76 

Perment 77 

Fibrin : 214,215 

Field  cooking 279-283 

Field  expedients 311, 312 

Fillet 78 

Fireless  cookers 298. 299 

Fish 245 

Fish,  recipes 452^62 

Fish ,  fillet  of 248 

Fish,  individual  cooking  of 307 

Fish,  preparation  of 245-248 

Flapjacks,  individual  cooking  of 309 

Flavoring  extracts 209 

Fl  ies 27 1 ,  280 

Floors : 277 

Flour 192,201 

Food,  composition  of .' 258-266 

Food ,  expensive 265 

Food, preparation  of 249-256 

Food ,  preservation  of 70, 204, 221-224, 253, 270, 271 

Food  values'. 267, 26H 

Food,  waste  of 270, 278, 279 

Forcemeat 84 

Fowl,  fillet  of. . : so 

Frankfurters 163 

Frapp^ : S5 

French  dressing,  recipe 526 

French  toast,  recipe 32* 

Fricassee 86 

Frijoles . .      306 

Fritters 88 

Fritters,  com,  recipe '. 551 

Fritters,  oatmeal,  recipe .=i52 

Fruit  component 205 

Fruit  cake,  recipe ,')45 

Fruit,  dried,  recipe 205 

Frying 256 

G. 

G  ame 213 

Game,  small,  recipes 412 

Garlic 89 

Garbage 270 

Garnish 90 

Garrison  ration 192-198 

Gelatin 91, 214, 217 

Gelatin,  recipe 553 

Gelatinoids 261 

Gems 92 


201-'  INDEX. 

Paragraph. 

Germs 93 

Giblets 94. 

Giblet  sance,  recipe 449 

G  inger . . . .' 95 

Ginger,  Jamaica 95 

Gl?ce 96 

Glucose 97 

Gluten 98 

Goose,  rotxst,  recipe 413 

Graham  Inins,  recipe 582 

Graham  flour 99  .. 

Gravv 273 

Grease 211 

Greens,  recipe ^ 478  'f 

Grilled ; 100  - 

Grits 101 

Gruel 102 

II. 

Ham mJ 

Ham,  recipes 414, 4 15  . 

Ham  butts 104' 

Hard  bread 2!)1 

Hash,  chop  suey,  recipe 41G 

Headcheese,  recipe -  417 

Heifer,  carcass  of 240 

Hoecake,  individual  cooking  of 309   , 

Hominy 105,203, 306  S 

Honiin  V  recipes 329, 330, 479  I 

Hops . ; 106-1 

Hot  cakes,  recipe 327  '^ 

I. 

Ice 107 

Ice  box ,. 270 

Ice  l)Ox,  improvised 312 

Jrv  cream,  recipes _ 557-559 

Ice  reci[>es 554-556 

IciuK 108 

Improvised  ovens 312 

Incinerators,  improvised 312 

Individual  cooking 283, 301-309 

Inspections 270 

J. 

Jam 109 

Jars  for  veast 277 

Jelly... ." 110 

JeJih  v  Linds,  recipe 576, 5S7' 

Juice  of  meats 18, 219 


I 


INDEX.  263 

K. 

Paragraph. 

Kidneys ill 

Kitchen  car,  baggage : 316 

Kitchen  car,  detachment 317 

Kitchen  car,  standard 313, 314 

Kitchen  economy 269 

Kitchen  inspection 270 

Kitchen  police / 270, 271, 276, 278 

Kitchen,  police  of. 271, 272, 273, 275, 276, 277 

Kitchen,  rolling 300 

Kuchen,  apple,  recipe 585 

'  '  L. 

Lard 24, 113, 114, 115, 211, 256 

Lamb  chops : -. , 112 

Leaven 116 

Leek j 117 

Lettuce  salad,  recipe 527 

Lemonade,  recipe 592 

Lentils 118 

Lentil  soup,  recipe 348 

Lights : 119 

Liver 120, 163 

Liver  and  bacon,  recipe 418 

Lobster  salad,  recipe .- 528 

M. 

Macaroni 121 

Macaroni  and  cheese,  recipe 480 

Macaroni  and  tomato  soup,  recipe 350 

Macaroni  soup,  recipe 349 

Mace 122 

Malt 123 

March,  messing  on  the 282 

Marjoram 124 

Marrow 1 25 

Maj'onnaise 126 

Mayonnaise  dressing,  recipe -. 529 

Meals,  ser\nce  of 270, 271, 273, 275, 276, 278 

Measures 301, 302 

Meat 213-244,282 

Meat,  recipes 375-447 

Meat,  bull 163 

Meat,  cooked  by  steam 321 

Meat,  curing  of 223, 224 

Meat,  cutting  of 271  273 

Meat  cutter '  273 

Meat,  de\'iled !...!.!!!!!!!!]!!!!       64 


264  INDEX. 

Paragraph. 

Meat,  individual  cooking  of 307 

Meat,  juice  of 3?^? 

Meatl  keeping  fresh 221, 222, 2o3 

Memorandum  of  mess  sergeant 198 

Meringue J27 

Messing  on  railroad  trains 313-318 

Messing  on  the  march 282 

Messing  on  transports 319-323 

Mess  sergeants,  duties  of 195, 196 

197, 108, 207, 225, 26<>,  270, 275, 276, 278, 315 

Mess  sergeants,  suggestions  to 225, 271 

Mice - 271 

Milk 34,208 

Milk  for  breakfast  foods,  recipe 324 

Milk  toast,  recipe 331 

Mineral  matter  of  foods 258, 260 

Mmce  pie,  recipe 586 

Mint..  ..!.-- .rr. 128 

Mint  sauce 128 

Mol)ilization  camp  rations 192 

Mousse 129 

Muffins - 92 

Mulligatawny 130 

Mush,  cornmeal,  recipes 332, 333 

Mush,  oatmeal,  receipe 334 

Mush,  rolled  wheat,  recipe 335 

M  ustard 1 31 

Mutton,  caxf  ass  of 243 

Mutton,  cut? ing  of 243 

Mutton,  fiUe-L  of 81 

Mutton,  indi\ldual  cooking  of 307 

Mutton  recipes 419-423 

Mutton,  specifications  of 244 

Mutton,  use  of  various  parts  of 244 

N. 

Nasturtium 133 

>ioodles 132,351 

Noo-lle  soup,  recipe 351 

N  utmegs 13* 

Nutrition 257-268 


O.  ^ 

Oatmeal 306  5 

Oatmeal  fritters,  recipe 552  1 

Oleomargarin 135, 210  l, 

Olein 136  . 

Oil,  cottonseed 52, 113  > 


^* 


INDEX.  265 

Paragraph. 

Omelets,  recipe 424 

Onions 192,204,271,273 

Onion  recipes 481-4  W 

Onions,  indivi4ual  cooking  of. 308 

Order  in  dining  room 270 

Orange  ice,  recipe 555 

Oregano 137 

Oseille 138 

Oven 139,140,273 

Oven  counts 251, 252 

Ovens,  improvised 312 

Ovens,  temperature  of 251, 252 

Oxtail  soup,  recipe 352 

Oyster  plant 141 

Oysters 167 

Oysters,  fried,  recipe 458 

Oysters,  scalloped,  recipe . . . ; 459 

Oyster  stew,  recipe 353 

r. 

Pancreas 142 

Pan  stew,  recipe 430 

Pans,  bake 277 

Pantry / 275 

Parboil /. 143 

Parkerhouse  rolls,  recipe 588 

Parsley • 144 

Parsnips 204, 273 

Parsnips,  recipes 485,486 

Patties 145 

Peas 203, 273, 306 

Peas,  caimed,  recipe 487 

Peas,  dried , 203, 306 

Peas,  green,  recipe 488 

Pea  soup,  recipe 354 

Peas,  split 306 

Peas,  split,  soup,  recipe 369 

Pepper l46 

Pepper  cayenne ' 147 

Piccalilli 148 

Piccalilli  salad,  recipe 530 

Pie,  crust,  recipe 560 

Pie  recipes. 561-567 

Pigs'  feet,  pickled,  recipe 426 

Pigs,  little,  roasted,  recipe 425 

Pimento  salad,  recipe 532 

Pineapple  ice,  recipe 556 

Pintsch-gas  cooker 318 

Philippine  scouts,  ration  of 192 


266  INDEX. 

Paragraph. 

Pistachio 149 

Pit  for  slops 312 

Plain  cake 547 

Plum  pudding,  recipe 572 

Plum  pudding,  sauce,  recipe 572 

Poach 1 50 

Police  of  kitchen,  etc 270, 271, 272, 273, 275, 276, 277 

Pork,  carcass  of 241, 243 

Pork,  cutting  of 242, 243 

Fork,  individual  cooking  of .- 307 

Pork,  fillet  of 81 

Pork,  recipes 427-429 

Pork,  sausage,  recipe 433, 434 

Porridge 151 

Potatoes 192, 204, 273 

Potatoes,  recipes 489-502 

Potato  chowder,  recipe 355 

Potato,  individual  cooking  of 308 

Potatoes,  sweet ,  recipes 503-506 

Potato  salad,  recipe 533 

Potato  soup,  recipe :io6 

Potato  yeast,  recipe 575 

Potpies 250 

Poultry 213 

Preparation  of  food 249-256 

Preservation  of  food 70, 204, 221, 222. 2^53, 270, 271 

Property,  care  of 270 

Protein 152, 2.58, 261 

Proving 153 

Prunes,  stewed,  recipe 568 

Pudding,  English  beef,  recipe 430 

Pudding,  recipes 569-574 

Pumpkin  pie,  recipe 567 

Pumpkins,  recipes 507 

Purees,  recipes 357-365 

Pyrometer 154 

R. 

Rabbit,  fillet  of : 82 

Rack  for  kitchen  utensils 273 

Rack  for  towel 27 

Ragout 155 

Railroad  trains,  messing  on 313-31S 

Range,  Army  No.  5 277 

Ranges,  cleanliness  of 273. 277 

Ranges,  field 281,284-296,316 

Ranges,  improvised 312 

Ration  accounts 192,198 

RaUon  allowances 194,195,196,197,198 


INDEX.  267 

Paragraph. 

Ration,  cash  value  of I'M,  195, 196, 197, 198 

Ration,  component  of 192, 195, 196, 198-212 

Ration,  emergency 310 

Ration,  food  value  of 266, 267, 268 

Ration  period 192 

Ration,  purchase  of 192-198 

Ration  returns 192-198 

Rations 192-198, 279, 283 

Ration  savings 192-195 

Ration  settlement 192. 193 

Rations,  individual  cooking  of 301, 302 

Rations,  care  of 270 

Rations,  issue  of 192, 196, 197, 282 

Rations  while  traveling  by  rail 318 

Ration  tables 194-197 

Rats 271 

Recipes  of  individual  cooking 305-309 

Records  of  mess  sergeant .' 19S,  270 

Refuse , 264,270 

Rendering 156, 211 

Reports,  daily,  of  mess  sergeant 270 

Reserve  ration 192 

Rhubarb  sauce,  recipe 450 

Ribs,  spare 175 

Rice 203, 306 

Rice,  boiled,  recipe 508 

Rice,  fried,  recipe 509 

Rice  pudding,  recipe 573 

Rice  soup,  recipe 366 

Rivel  soup,  recipe 367 

Roasting 157, 273 

Roasts 230 

Rolling  kitchens 300 

Rolls 273 

Rolls,  Parker  House, recipe 588 

S. 

Saccharin 158 

Saffron 150 

Sage 160 

Sago 161 

Salads,  recipes 518-539 

Salmon,  recipes .' 460,461 

Salmon  salad,  recipe 534 

Salsify 141 

Sauce,  barbecue,  recipe 439 

Sauce,  cream  for  codfish,  recipe 456 

Sauces,  recipes 448-451 

Sauce,  Spanish  fish,  recipe 462 


268  INDEX. 

Paragraph.'' 

Sauerkraut,  recipe 51o/ 

Sausage 35, 16 

Sausages,  recipes 431-43 

Saut6 164i 

Saving  privilege , 279j  280, 282- 

Savings 192-195, 198, 225 

Scald 165 ' 

Scales 277 

Scallop , 166 

Scalloped  oysters 167 

Seasoning 209,255,271,273 

Serving  the  meal 271, 278. 

Sherbet 168 

Shortening 169^ 

Sirup 

Slaw 17l>' 

Slaw,  recipe 535 

Slop  pit 312 

Slops 270 

Small  doughs,  recipe 575-589 . 

Soda 171^ 

Sorrel 138 , 

Souffle 172- 

Soup 200^ 

Soups,  recipes 337-374 

Sour  cream  dressing  for  slaw,  recipe 53* 

Soy 173\t 

Spaghetti : 121,174? 

Spaghetti,  soup,  recipe 368 

Spareribs 175 

Spare  ribs,  recipe 438 

Specification  of  beef  and  mutton -.  226, 227, 244 

Spinach , 273 

Spinach,  boiled,  recipe 511 

Sponge 1 76 

Sponge,  recipe 5/6, 577 

Squash,  recipes 512-514 

Starch 178 


Steam  cooking 320, 321 

Stearin , .' 179 

Steer,  carcass  of 233,235,236,238,239 

Sterilize , ; 180 

Stew,  Irish,  recipe 440 

Stew,  pan,  recipe 436- 

Stew,  el  rancho,  recipe 437 

Stew,  T  urkish ,  recipe 448 

Stew,  chop  suey,  recipe - 439 

Stews , ..  ...      25© 

Stock 181,200,211 


INDEX.  269 

Paragraph. 

Storerooms,  police  of 271, 275 

Succotash 182 

Succotash,  recipe 515 

Suet '. 183 

Sugar 207 

Sugar  buns,  recipe 553 

Sweetbreads 184 

Swinging  cage 312 

T. 

Tables,  dining  room  and  kitchen 270,275,277,278 

Tables,  ration 184-197 

Tableware,  care  of ' 270, 275,276 

Tallow : 185 

Tamalies,  recipe 442 

Tapioca 1 .* 186 

Tapioca  pudding,  recipe 574 

Tea..... 206,304,305 

Tea,  recipe 593 

Tea  buns ,  recipe 584 

Temperature 191 

Temperature  of  baking 1  J,  251, 252 

Temperature  of  foods 254, 255 

Temperature  oi  frying : 256 

Thyme 187 

Thymus  gland 188 

Times  of  cooking 251, 252 

Times  of  cooking  in  fireless  cooker 298 

Tinware 277 

Toast,  French,  recipe : 328 

Toast,  milk,  recipe 331 

Tomato  and  rice  soup,  recipe — ; 371 

Tomatoes 201, 299 

Tomatoes,  individual  cooking  of 308 

Tomatoes,  sliced,  reciiJe 536 

Tomatoes,  stewed,  recipe 516 

Tomato  sauce,  recipe 451 

Tomato  soup,  recipe .• 370 

Towelrack 271 

Towels,  dish ,...,...      277 

Transports,  messing  on 319, 323 

Transports,  rations  on 192 

Travel  ration 192 

Tripe 189 

Turkey  roast,  recipe : 441 

Turkish  stew,  recipe 443 

Turnips : 204, 255, 273 

Turnips ,  boiled ,  recipe 517 

Twists,  rwipe 589 


270  INDEX. 

U. 

Paragraph. 

Utensils,  care  of 270,271,273,275,276,277 

Utensils,  rack  for 273 

Veal,  fillet  of 83; 

Veal,  individual  cooking  of 307\ 

Veal,  recipes 444, 445 

Vegetable  component  of  ration 192, 204 

Vegetable  salaa,  recipe 539 

Vegetable  soup,  recipe 372 

Vegetables,  recipes 463-517 

V^etables,  cooking  of 255, 273 

Vegetables,  dried 282 

Vegetables,  individual  cooking  of 306, 308 

V^etables,  preservation  of 253, 271, 273 

Vegetables,  pur6e  of,  recipe 365  , 

Venison,  individual  cooking  of 307 

Venison,  recipes 446, 447 

Vermieolli .-      121 

Vermicelli  sbup,  recipe 373 

Vineg^. 190 

W. 

Warming  device 278 

Waste .%. 270, 271 

.Wastingfood 270,278,279 

Water - 24,253,255,258,259 

Weights 277,301,302 

Welsh  rarebit ,  recipe 374  | 

Y. 

Yeast 191| 

Yeast  jars : 27?:'' 

Yeast,  potato,  recipe 575 

Yorkshire  pudding,  recipe 398 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

lllllillilllllillllll 

3  9999  05987  732  2 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  front  this 
pocket. 


