Historic,  archived  document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


jTED  ..STATES 
OF  AGRICULTURE 


HOUSEKEEPERS'  CHAT 


OFBIC 


fi  c 


*7 


MM 


(FOB  BROADCAST  USE  ONLY) 


*  MAY  2- 1933  ★ 
Wednesday,  ^  ^fyWW."  **,taH**  1 


Subject:  "Meals  for  the  Convalescent.11  Information  from  the  Bureau  of  Home 
Economics,  U-S-D-A- 

 ooOoo  


Sometime  or  other  sickness  visits  most  households  and  brings  with  it  special 
problems  for  the  homemaker.     One  problem,  and  a  very  important  one,   is  food  -- 
planning,  preparing  and  serving  meals  for  the  patient.    After  sickness  comes  that 
difficult  getting-well  period  when  the  convalescent  needs  food  to  build  him  up, 
yet  lacks  appetite.     Don't  you  remember  when  Junior  was  getting  over  measles,  how 
thin  he  was,  yet  how  he  turned  up  his  nose  at  the  very  mention  of  food?     Don't  you 
remember  when  Aunt  Sally  was  recovering  from  grip  and  declared  that  she  couldn't 
touch  a  bite  of  anything?    And  don't  you  remember  when  Uncle  Bill  lost  his  usual 
hearty  appetite  and  lay  in  bed,   the  crankiest  man  alive  when  his  meals  came  in? 

Food  plays  a  big  part  in  recovery  from  any  illness.     So  the  game  is  to  serve 
the  right  food  and  make  it  attractive  enough  to  tempt  the  most  listless  patient. 
Tempting  food  probably  does  mere  good  in  the  sick  room  than  anywhere  else  because 
it  helps  wake  dull  appetites.     Food  for  the  sick  needs  to  appeal  to  the  eye  and 
be  sc  well  prepared  that  it  has  a  delicious  taste  and  odor.     Such  food  not  only 
nourishes  the  body  but  it  also  cheers  up  spirits.    And  we  all  know  how  good  spirits 
hasten  recovery. 

The  doctor  may  prescribe,  a  liquid,   or  a  soft,   or  a  normal  diet.     But  that 
doesn't  mean  that  this  diet  will  be  a  success  just  dosed  out  to  the  invalid  like 
medicine.     He  needs  not  only  to  swallow  food  but  also  to  enjoy  it.     Even  a  liquid 
diet,  which  contains  very  few  different  foods,  may  be  either  monotonous  and 
uninviting  or  cheering  to  the  appetite.     Preparation  and  serving  make  the  differ- 
ence.    Recovery  often  depends  on  the  cook  as  well  as  the  doctor. 

Poods  on  the  invalid's  list  are  usually  those  that  contain  the  most  nourish- 
ment with  the  least  tax  on  the  digestive  organs.     Foods  which  answer  this  require- 

it  are  milk,   eggs,  well-cooked  cereals,  fruit  juices,  and  pureed  fruit  and 
vegetable  pulp.     With  the  exception  of  fruit,   these  foods  all  have  a  bland  flavor. 
This  lack  of  flavor  is  the  reason  that  diets  for  the  sick  often  become  insipid  and 
tiresome.     Patients  in  hospitals  frequently  comolain  that  the  food  tastes  alike 
day  after  day.     This  tiresome  monotony  isn't  necessary.    You  can  cook  the  same 
ioods  in  many  different  ways,  you  can  dress  them  up  differently  so  they  will  never 
look  the  same,  and  you  can  season  them  in  many  different  ways.    Also,  you  can  use 
different  china,  you  can  arrange  the  tray  d.if f erently,  and  add  a  different  little 
ilower  or  a  fern  by  way  of  decoration.     Generally  the  surprise  method  is  a  good  one 
tc  use  in  feeding  an  invalid.    Unless  he  asks  for  a  special  dish,  don't  discuss  the 
menu  with  him.     Just  bring  in  a  good-looking  trayful  and  let  the  food  for  each 
meal  come  as  a  surprise. 

How  about  variety  on  the  invalid's  diet.     First,  broths  and  clear  soups. 
How  to  make  them  different?     Season  the  soup  as  it  cooks  in  different  ways  — 
sometimes  with  celery  leaves,   sometimes  with  chopped  celery  or  onion,  a  bit  of  bay 


R-HC 


-2- 


5/17/33 


leaf  or  parsley.     Of  course,   you'll  strain  these  out  with  the  meat  "before  serving. 
Combining  two  soups  also  makes  a  change  in  flavor.     Adding  a  little  tomato  juice 
tj  a  meat  troth  gives  variety  in  flavor  and  appearance.     Or  you  can  add  a  spoonful 
of  cream,  "beef  juice,  a  cube  cf  tomato  gelatin  or  a  beaten  egg  yolk  .just  "before 
removing  from  the  fire.     These  additions  please  the  taste  and  add  to  the  nourish- 
ment of  the  food. 

Fruit  juices  are  popular  in  invalid  diets.    Their  sugars  are  in  a  form  easy 
to  assimilate,   they  supply  minerals  and  vitamins,  and  they  have  a  slight  laxative 
effect,,     Moreover,   they  are  excellent  appetizers.    And  you  can  serve  fruit  juices 
in  delicious-looking  chilled  drinks  or  in  gelatin  desserts  or  salads  or  in  ices 
or  sherbets.     Citrus  fruit  juice  —  orange,   lemon  or  grapefruit  —  and  tomato  juice 
are  especially  recommended  because  they  are  high  in  vitamin  C. 

Milk  and  eggs  are  two  foods  that  many  invalids  must  depend  on  for  building 
materials  over  long  periods  of  time.     ITo  need  to  let  either  of  these  good  foods 
become  monotonous.     You  can  serve  milk  in  cream  soups,  frozen  desserts,  custards, 
tapiocas,   rice  puddings,  gelatin  puddings,   cocoa  malted  drinks  and  many  other 
popular  drinks  and  desserts.     As  for  eggs,   think  of  all  the  ways  to  serve  them! 
On  one  day  your  invalid  can  have  an  omelet,   either  a  fluffy  one  or  a  flat  one. 
Another  day  he  can  have  scrambled  eggs,  made  in  the  upper  part  of  the  double 
boiler;  or  an  egg  poached  in  milk  or  water;  or  a  soft-cooked  or  coddled  egg;  or  a 
delicate  shirred  egg,   cooked  in  the  oven.     Or  you  can  serve  him  eggs  made  into  a 
simple  pudding  like  a  custard  or  a  whip  or  made  into  an  egg  nogg. 

As  for  cereals,  here  again  you  can  give  your  patient  plenty  of  variety. 
Sfeny  different  cereals  are  on  the  market  today,   so  breakfast  porridge  can  be  dif- 
ferent each  morning.     Lots  of  different  ways  to  serve  simple,  inexpensive  cereals. 
Take  rice,  for  example  —  light,   fluffy,  boiled  rice  with  each  grain  whole  and 
separate-.     With  cream  it  is  a  morning  cereal.     With  butter  or  gravy,   it  becomes 
a  vegetable  to  serve  with  the  main  course.     Or  you  can  serve  it  in  soup.  With 
sugar,   cream  and  possibly  a  fruit  like  pineapple,  banana  or  prunes,   it  makes  a 
good  dessert.    Just  one  cereal.    And  so  many  different  ways  to  serve  it  to  an 
invalid. 

So  the  moral  of  this  story  is  that  in  feeding  an  invalid  successfully,  you 
need  to  appeal  to  the  eye  and  the  appetite.     Surroundings  make  a  big  difference  in 
the  appetite  of  the  person  in  bed.     So  be  sure  his  room  is  in  order  before  the 
meal  tray  comes  in.     Then,  be  sure  the  tray  itself  is  immaculate  —  clean  linen, 
food  served  daintily.     Plan  to  have  the  hot  foods  hot  and  the  cold  foods  cold 
Hhen  they  reach  the  bedside.     Those  little  inexpensive  covered  casseroles,  baking 
dishes  and  soup  dishes  with  covers  are  convenient  for  hot  foods.     Cold  foods  look 
attractive  in  glass  dishes.     Finally,  be  sure  you  put  plenty  of  variety  into  the 
invalid's  diet.     See  that  each  meal  has  variety  in  color  and  flavor.     And  make 
each  tray  look  different.     Cook  and  serve  foods  in  different  var;s.     And  count  on 
surprise  to  add  interest  to  the  meal. 


Time  is  up.     So  I'll  give  you  two  good  convalescent  menus  first  thing 
tomorrow.     Then  we'll  answer  questions. 


MJUL 

mnr 


