LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 

@^....ij^Snp?rig|t  :|n. 

Shelf-XMi 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


l^ 


75^6 


#^^°*' 


*» 


Prices:  paper  cover,  20  cents;  cloth  cover,  30  cents. 

MEALS 

FOR  THE  MILLION 

The  People's  Cook-Book. 
/ 

By  JULIET   CORSON, 

Superintettdeni  of  the  New  York  School  of  Cookery, 

AUTHOR    OF    ''the    COOKING     SCHOOL     TEXT-BOOK     AND     HOUSEKEEPERS* 

GUIDE,"   "the   COOKING   MANUAL,"  "  OUS   HOUSEHOLD   COUNCIL," 

"TWENTY-FIVE     CENT     DINNERS,"    "DIET     FOR     INVALIDS 

AND   CHILDREN."  ETC. 


THIRD     EDITIO. 


New  York. 
N.  Y.  SCHOOL  OF  COOKERY 
1516  BROADWAY, 
1882. 


^u.. 


COPYKIGHT,    1870, 

3y  JULIET   CORSOH. 
A  a  rights  reserved. 


PREFACE 


A  marked  advance  in  the  prices  of  provisions  of 
all  kinds,  and  a  continued  demand  for  novelty  and 
variety  in  economical  cookery,  have  led  to  the  pub- 
lication of  this  pamphlet. 

The  author  has  refrained  from  the  reproduction 
of  recipes  included  in  her  former  works,  with  the 
exception  of  those  for  bread,  boiled  and  baked  po- 
tatoes, roasted  and  baked  meats,  and  a  few  dishes 
for  invalids,  which  she  believes  cannot  too  often  be 
repeated.  The  difficult  dishes  of  so-called  "fancy 
cookery"  have  been  avoided,  as  has  been  the  use 
of  any  but  the  most  ordinary  materials. 

The  price  of  the  book  is  made  low  enough  to 
place  it  within  the  reach  of  every  one  interested  in 
the  extension  of  cheap  and  wholesome  cookery,  and 
the  author  ventures  to  hope  for  it  a  fair  measure  of 
popular  approbation. 

New  York  School  of  Cookery. 
January,  1882. 


Meals  for  the  Million. 


CHAPTER  I. 

SOUPS, 


Cream  of  Cod  (2  qts.). — Remove  the  skin  and 
bones  from  cold  boiled  codfish,  and  rub  it  through 
a  very  fine  colander  or  a  wire  sieve  with  a  potato 
masher  ;  one  cupful  will  be  sufficient  for  two  quarts 
of  soup.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  flour  and 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  stir 
with  a  wooden  spatula  *  until  the  flour  and  butter 
are  smoothly  blended;  gradually  add  one  quart 
each  of  boiling  water  and  milk,  stirring  all  the 
time  until  the  mixture  is  free  from  lumps  and 
reaches  the  boiling  point  ;  then  stir  in  the  fish, 
season  the  soup  palatably  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg,  using  about  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt  and  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  each  of  white 
pepperf  and  grated  nutmeg.  Let  the  soup  boil 
gently  for  a  couple  of  minutes  and  then  serve  it. 
If  it   stands  before   serving  long   enough   to   grow 

*A  small  pudding-stick  or  paddle  made  of  hard  wood, 
preferable  to  a  metal  or  wooden  spoon  for  kitchen  use. 

t  Generally  kept  by  grocers  at  the  same  price  as  black 
pepper,  and  much  better  to  use  in  white  soups  and  sauces. 


10  THE  PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK. 

thicker  than  rich  cream  use  a  little  hot  milk  io 
thin  it.  Any  cold  fish  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 

Cream  Clam  Soup  (2  qts.)— Wash  the  shells  of 
twenty-five  large  or  fifty  small  clams  and  put  them 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  until  the  shells  open  ; 
take  them  from  the  fire,  remove  them  from  the 
shells,  saving  all  the  liquor  they  yield,  cut  the  soft 
parts  away  from  the  hard,  and  keep  them  hot  in 
sufficient  hot  water  to  cover  them  ;  chop  the  hard 
parts  and  return  them  to  the  fire  \x\  hot  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  boiling  them  slowly  until 
quite  tender.  Then  add  to  them  the  soft  parts 
and  all  the  liquor,  together  with  enough  milk  to 
make  two  quarts  of  soup  ;  season  it  palatably  with 
salt  and  pepper,  smoothly  mix  with  it  sufficient 
cracker  dust  (/>.,  crackers  pulverized  and  sifted  to  a 
fine  powder-)  to  make  the  soup  as  thick  as  cream ; 
about  three  tablespoonfuls  will  be  enough  for  each 
quart.     Serve  hot. 

Oyster  Sonp. — Oyster  soup  may  be  similarly  made 
with  strained  oyster  juice,  milk,  cracker  dust,  and 
seasonings.  The  oysters  should  be  carefully  ex- 
amined to  make  sure  that  no  shell  adheres  to 
them,  and  only  allowed  to  heat  for  a  minute  in  the 
soup  after  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Rich  Clam  Soup  (2  qts.).— Use  one  pint  of  soft 
clams  after  they  are  removed  from  the  shell  (they 
are  brought  to  market  in  "  bunches"  or  "  strings," 
each  bunch  being  about  a  pint) ;  put  them  into  one 
quart  of  cold  water  and  wash  them  to  remove  any 
particles  of  shell;  then  strain  this  water  and  put 
it  over  the  fire  to  heat  with  the  clams  in  it,  and 


SOUPS.  II 

when  it  approaches  the  boiling  point  put  it  at  the 
back  of  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  slowly  for  fifteen 
minutes;  meantime  mix  over  the  fire  two  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour  and  a  quart  of 
hot  milk,  as  directed  for  Cream  of  Cod;  then  quickly 
strain  into  this  mixture  the  broth  from  the  clams, 
season  it,  and  set  it  back  from  the  fire  while  the 
soft  parts  of  the  clams  are  cut  away  from  the  hard ; 
add  them  to  the  soup ;  beat  the  yolks  of  two  raw 
eggs  with  half  a  cup  of  the  hot  soup,  stir  them  into 
the  rest  of  it,  and  serve  it  at  once. 

Bean  Soup  (4  qts.). — Pick  over  one  pint  of  dried 
beans  and  wash  them  in  cold  water  ;  peel  and  slice 
an  onion  and  fry  it  brown  in  bottom  of  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  tablespoonful  of  drippings  ;  for  this 
purpose  ham  or  bacon  fat  is  preferable.  When  the 
onion  is  brown  put  the  beans  in  with  it,  pour  on 
three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  let  these  ingredi- 
ents boil  slowly ;  every  fifteen  minutes  add  half  a 
cup  of  cold  water  until  a  quart  has  been  used. 
Meantime  mix  one  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and 
butter  to  a  smooth  soft  paste,  and  fry  some  half- 
inch  bits  of  stale  bread  light  brown  in  the  frying 
kettle,  or  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter.  As 
soon  as  the  beans  are  soft,  in  about  an  hour,  pour 
them  into  a  sieve  set  over  a  large  bowl,  and  rub 
them  through  with  a  potato-masher  ;  put  them  again 
into  the  saucepan  with  their  broth,  stir  in  the  butter 
and  flour,  let  the  soup  boil  once,  and  serve  it,  with 
the  fried  bread  in  it. 

Puree  of  Poultry  (2  qts.). — Free  from  skin  and 
bone  a  cupful  of  any  kind  of  cold  poultry,  chop  it 
fine,    and    rub    it   through  a  sieve  with  a  potato- 


12  THE  PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

masher;  put  into  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  two 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour  and  stir 
them  until  they  are  light  brown;  then  add  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  half  a  cupful  at  once,  stir- 
ring all  the  time,  and  keeping  the  mixture  smooth ; 
season  highly  w^ith  salt  and  pepper,  stir  in  \\\q  puree 
of  poultry,  let  the  soup  boil  once,  and  serve  it.  It 
may  be  flavored  with  a  tablespoonful  of  any  good 
table  sauce. 

Brown  Soup  (2  qts.). — Make  this  soup  when  there 
is  on  hand  broth,  or  the  pot  liquor  of  boiled  beef; 
free  the  broth  from  fat,  and  if  it  is  not  clear  clarify 
it  as  follows :  for  each  quart  mix  the  white  and 
shell  of  one  egg  and  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  wa- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  pour  the  cold  broth  upon  them 
and  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  where  its  con- 
tents will  gradually  approach  the  boiling  point, 
stirring  every  two  minutes  to  loosen  the  egg  from 
the  bottom  of  the  saucepan ;  as  the  egg  cooks  it 
will  rise  in  the  form  of  a  scum ;  when  it  collects 
upon  the  surface,  and  the  broth  looks  clear  and 
bright  under  it,  pour  it  through  a  folded  towel  laid 
in  a  colander  Over  a  large  bowl ;  do  not  squeeze 
the  towel,  but  let  the  broth  run  slowly  through  it ; 
it  will  then  be  ready  to  use. 

Peel  and  cut  in  half-inch  dice  one  medium  size 
carrot,  one  white  turnip,  one  small  leek,  one  small 
onion,  and  one  head  of  celery ;  slowly  fry  them 
brown  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
When  they  are  brown  pour  the  clarified  broth  upon 
them  and  slowly  boil  them  tender,  removing  all 
scum  as  fast  as  it  rises.     Meantime  boil  one  cupful 


SOUPS.  13 

of  green  peas  or  string  beans,  if  either  are  in  season, 
in  salted  boiling  water  until  tender,  and  then  drain 
them  and  put  them  in  cold  water  until  they  are 
wanted.  When  the  other  vegetables  are  tender 
drain  the  peas  or  beans  from  the  cold  water  and 
add  them  to  the  soup.  Mix  one  tablespoonful  of 
arrowroot  with  half  a  cup  of  cold  water,  stir  it  into 
the  soup,  let  it  boil  once,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar,  and  serve. 

Cock-a-leeky  (4  qts.). — Remove  all  feathers  from 
an  old  fowl,  singe  it,  wipe  it  clean  with  a  wet 
towel,  draw  and  truss  it,  and  put  it  into  a  large 
saucepan  with  one  onion  peeled  and  sliced,  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  lean  bacon  sliced,  one  tablespoonful 
of  sugar  and  four  of  butter ;  set  the  saucepan  over 
the  fire  and  turn  the  fowl  occasionally  until  it  is 
brown  all  over;  then  add  to  it  four  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of 
pepper,  and  six  whole  cloves.  •  Boil  gently  for  two 
hours,  or  until  the  fowl  is  tender.  Then  strain  the 
broth  and  return  it  to  the  saucepan  ;  put  into  it  two 
dozen  prunes,  and  one  bunch  of  leeks  washed  and 
chopped  fine ;  the  chicken  is  usually  cut  in  inch 
bits  and  added,  but  it  may  be  put  in  whole  to  cook 
with  the  leeks  and  prunes  for  thirty  minutes,  and 
then  taken  from  the  soup  to  serve  as  the  meat  dish 
for  the  dinner.  At  the  end  of  the  half  hour  see 
that  the  seasoning  is  palatable,  and  serve  the  soup. 
Rice  can  be  substituted  for  the  prunes,  and  veal  for 
the  chicken. 

Potato  Soup  (4  qts.). — Put  into  a  saucepan  two 
ounces  of  bacon  chopped,  six  onions  peeled  and 
chopped,  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  one  teaspoon- 


1 4  THE  PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK. 

ful  of  salt  and  four  quarts  of  hot  water,  and  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes;  meantime  peel  and  slice  one 
quart  of  potatoes,  add  them  to  the  first  mentioned 
ingredients,  and  boil  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
longer,  or  until  the  potatoes  are  boiled  to  a  pulp ; 
season  palatably,  and  serve  hot. 

Pumpkin  Soup  (2  qts.), — Peel  and  slice  enough 
pumpkin  to  fill  a  pint  bowl,  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
with  one  head  of  celery  chopped  fine,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  drippings  or  butler,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water;  boil  until  the  vegetables 
can  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve  with  a  potato- 
masher;  then  return  the  vegetables  and  the  broth 
in  which  they  were  cooked  to  the  saucepan,  set  it 
over  the  fire,  stir  into  it  the  soft  paste  of  butter  and 
flour  described  in  the  recipe  for  Bean  Soup^  boil  it 
once,  and  serve  it  with  fried  dice  of  bread  prepared 
as  for  the  Bean  Soup. 

Winter  squash  makes  a  very  good  soup  if  treated 
in  the  same  way. 

Brown  Onion  Soup  (4  qts.). — Peel  and  slice  six 
large  onions,  fry  them  brown  in  a  saucepan  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  drippings  or  butter,  pour  over 
them  four  quarts  of  boiling  water,  season  with  two 
teasponfuls  of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper, 
stir  in  two  cupfuls  of  grated  bread  free  from  crust, 
and  boil  slowly  two  hours,  stirring  occasionally. 
Season  palatably,  and  serve  hot. 

Herb  Soup  (4  qts.). — Wash  and  chop  small  one 
cupful  each  of  leeks  or  chives,  parsley,  lettuce, 
green  cabbage,  beet  tops  or  boiled  beets,  spinach, 
and  sorrel  if  obtainable ;  put  them  over  the  fire  in 


SOUFS.  15 

two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  salad  oil,  and  fry 
for  five  minutes;  then  add  two  cupfuls  of  grated 
bread  free  from  crusts,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
pour  in  four  quarts  of  boiling  water,  simmer  two 
hours,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  and  serve. 


CHAPTER  II. 

FISH    AND    SHELLFISH. 

Fricassee  of  Codfish  (2  lbs.). — Wash  and  cut  two 
pounds  of  fresh  codfish  in  two  inch  squares,  remov- 
ing skin  and  bones ;  put  it  over  the  fire  in  sufficient 
cold  water  to  cover  it  an  inch,  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  let  it  slowly  approach  the  boiling  point ; 
then  take  it  from  the  water  with  a  skimmer,  lay  it 
on  a  warm  dish,  cover  it  with  a  towel  wet  in  warm 
water,  and  place  it  where  it  will  keep  warm  with- 
out drying.  Strain  the  water  in  which  the  fish  was 
boiled  and  use  one  pint  of  it,  together  with  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour,  to  make  a 
white  sauce,  first  melting  together  the  butter  and 
flour  and  then  gradually  stirring  in  the  water;  sea- 
son the  sauce  palatably  with  salt  and  pepper,  put 
the  fish  into  it  and  heat  it  until  the  flakes  begin  to 
separate ;  then  remove  the  saucepan  from  the  fire, 
stir  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  vinegar  ;  if  parsley  is  obtainable  add  one 
tablespoonful  chopped  fine  ;  serve  at  once.  Toast, 
or  two  inch  slices  of  fried  bread  may  accompany 
the  dish.  Three  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil  may  be 
added  to  the  sauce  with  the  vinegar,  if  desired. 

Halibut  and  bass  are  excellent  v/hen  cooked  in 
this  way. 

Eagoiit  of  Eels  and  Onions  {2  lbs.). — Wash  and 


FISH  AND   SHELLFISH.  1 7 

parboil  two  pounds  of  eels  cut  in  two  inch  lengths, 
for  fifteen  minutes ;  dry  them  on  a  towel,  put  them 
into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  salad  oil  or  butter, 
with  one  cupful  of  sliced  onions,  and  brown  them 
over  a  hot  fire ;  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  let  it  brown  ;  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water, 
season  the  ragofit  palatably  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  simmer  it  slowly  for  twenty  minutes,  when  it 
will  be  ready  to  serve. 

Broiled  Halibut  with  Caper  Butter. — Wash  a  slice 
of  halibut,  dry  it  on  a  towel,  dust  it  with  pepper 
and  salt,  place  it  in  a  double  fish  gridiron,  which 
has  been  buttered  to  prevent  the  fish  sticking  to  it, 
and  broil  it  light  brown  on  both  sides  over  a  mod- 
erate fire.  , 

Caper  Butter. — Meantime  chop  a  tablespoonful 
of  capers  and  mix  them  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
cold  butter,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  quarter 
of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper;  use  this  mixture  on 
the  fish  when  it  is  cooked.  Chopped  pickles  of 
any  kind  may  be  used  instead  of  the  capers.  Either 
caper  or  pickle  butter  is  excellent  with  any  broiled 
or  fried  fish.  Any  fresh  fish  may  be  used  instead 
of  halibut. 

Fried  Haddock  with  Pickle  Sauce. — Wash  and 
split  a  small  haddock  down  the  back  ;  cut  first  one 
side  and  then  the  other  away  from  the  backbone, 
and  divide  the  fish  into  suitable  pieces  for  frying; 
dust  the  pieces  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  them  in 
Indian  meal,  and  fry  them  light  brown  in  sufficient 
smoking  hot  fat  to  cover  them ;  take  them  from  the 
fat  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  them  on  brown  paper 
for  a  minute  to  free  them  from  grease.     Meantime 


1 8  THE  PEOPLES   COOK-BOOK. 

chop  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  pickle,  put  them  over  the  fire  for  one  minute 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  butter,  add  a  cupful  of 
vinegar,  and  as  soon  as  the  sauce  is  hot  pour  it  over 
the  fried  fish,  which  must  be  placed  on  a  hot  dish. 
The  fish  may  be  served  without  any  sauce,  but  a 
little  acid  is  a  great  improvement  to  any  fried  fish. 
A  lemon  sliced  or  quartered  may  be  used  when 
that  fruit  is  cheap.  Any  fresh  fish  may  be  fried  in 
this  way. 

Fish.  Roe  and  Potatoes. — Wash  any  kind  of  fish 
roe  in  salted  cold  water,  dry  it  on  a  towel,  put  it 
into  a  frying-pan  containing  sufficient  hot  fat  to  pre- 
vent burning,  cover  the  pan  to  prevent  the  spatter- 
ing of  the  fat,  and  brown  the  roe,  first  on  one  side 
and  then  on  the  other  ;  when  it  is  done  lay  it  on 
brown  paper  to  free  it  from  fat,  and  then  on  a  hot 
dish.  Meantime  peel  half  a  dozen  potatoes,  cut 
them  in  small  balls  with  a  vegetable  scoop,  or  in 
pieces  an  inch  square  ;  throw  them  into  salted  boil- 
ing water,  and  boil  them  until  a  trussing  needle  or 
sharp  fork  will  easily  pierce  them,  but  do  not  let 
them  boil  soft  ;  as  soon  as  they  are  tender  drain 
them  and  lay  them  between  the  folds  of  a  towel 
until  the  fish  roe  is  brown.  Then  put  the  potatoes 
into  the  hot  fat  where  the  roe  was  fried,  set  the 
pan  over  the  fire  and  shake  the  potatoes  about  in  it 
until  they  are  brown.  Serve  them  under  the  fish 
roe  after  dusting  them  over  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Salt  Cod,  Lyonnaise  Style. — Lay  a  pound  of  salt 
codfish  in  a  frying-pan,  cover  it  with  cold  water, 
and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire ;  when  the  water  is 
hot  replace  it  with  fresh  cold  water,  and  again  heat 


FISH  AND    SHELLFISH.  1 9 

the  fish  in  it.  Repeat  this  process  until  the  fish  is 
freshened  palatably,  taking  care  if  there  is  any  skin 
on  it  that  it  shall  be  uppermost ;  if  the  skin  of  salt 
fish  is  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan  all  the  salt  will  be 
retained  by  it.  Meantime  peel  and  slice  a  pint  of 
onions,  and  when  the  water  on  the  fish  is  changed 
for  the  last  time  put  the  onions  into  another  frying- 
pan,  containing  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  fat,  and 
fry  them  gently  ;  wheathe  fish  is  heated  remove  it 
from  the  water  with, -a  skimmer,  take  oft*  the  skin 
and  any  bones  which  can  easily  be  reached,  and 
put  it  into  the  pan  with  the  onions;  brown  it  slightly 
on  both  sides,  dust  it  with  pepper,  and  serve  it  with 
the  onions  over  it.  In  handling  the  fish  avoid 
breaking  it- 
Salt  Codfish,  Spanish  Style. — Parboil  and  freshen 
the  fish  as  directed  in  the  preceding  recipe,  or 
soak  it  in  water  over  night,  putting  the  water  warm 
on  the  fish.  Dry  it  on  a  towel  without  breaking  it, 
dip  it  in  melted  butter  or.olive  oil,  dust  it  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  broil  it  in. a  fish  gridiron.  When 
it  is  brown  on  both  sides  rub  it  over  with  butter  or 
oil,  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  squeeze  over  it  the' juice 
of  a  lemon,  if  lemons  are  plentiful,  or  pour  over  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  and  serve  it  hot.  A 
little  parsley  is  a  great  addition  to  the  dish. 

Salt  Codfish  with  Dutch  Sauce. — Freshen  the  fish 
as  already  directed,  and  keep  it  hot  while  a  Dutch 
Sauce  is  made  as  follows  : 

Dutch  Sauce. — Mix  together  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
until  they  bubble,  then  gradually  add  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  stirring  the  sauce  until  it  is  smooth ;  sea- 


20  THE  PEOPLES   COOK- BOOK. 

son  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  the  fish  into  it  and 
let  it  heat;  then  take  the  vessel  containing  it  from 
the  fire,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  a  few  drops  at  a  time^ 
and  one  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice ;  serve  at  once. 

Herrings  stewed  with  Tomatoes. — Strip  the  skin 
from  a  dozen  herrings,  pull  the  flesh  from  the  bones, 
and  put  the  filets  thus  made  over  the  fire  with  a 
pint  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced  ;  add  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  and  stew  gently  for  half  an 
hour;  then  serve  on  toast. 

Smoked  Halibut  and  Tomatoes. — Freshen  to 
taste  a  piece  of  smoked  halibut  as  directed  in  the 
recipe  of  Salt  Codfish,  Lyonnaise  style,  and  lay  it 
without  breaking  on  a  buttered  earthen  baking 
dish  ;  on  the  top  put  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chop- 
ped onion,  dust  it  with  pepper,  and  pour  over  it  a 
pint  of  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes ;  bake  it  half  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  serve  it  hot  in  the  dish 
in  which  it  was  cooked.  Fresh  halibut  is  excellent 
cooked  in  the  same  way. 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel. — Freshen  a  salt  mackerel 
by  soaking  it  over  night  in  water,  taking  care  that 
the  skin  lies  uppermost.  In  the  morning  dry  it 
without  breaking,  cut  off  the  tip  of  the  head  and 
the  tail,  place  it  between  the  bars  of  a  buttered 
fish  gridiron,  and  broil  it  to  a  light  brown  ;  lay  it 
on  a  hot  dish,  and  dress  it  with  a  little  butter,  pep- 
per, and  lemon  juice,  vinegar,  of  chopped  pickle. 

Devilled  Haddock. — Choose  a  thick  smoked  had- 
dock, trim  off  the  head  and  tail,  score  the  thick 
parts  at  about  inch  distances  with  a  sharp  knife,  rub 
into  the  cuts  salt,  pepper,  dry  mustard,  and  a  little 


FISH  AND    SHELLFISH.  21 

cayenne  pepper,  thus  seasoning  the  fish  highly; 
broil  it  five  minutes  on  each  side,  in  a  buttered  fish 
gridiron,  and  serve  it  very  hot  on  a  hot  dish,  with 
a  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

Herrings  and  bloaters  can  be  dressed  in  the  same 
way. 

Roast  Oysters. — To  make  a  real  roast  of  oysters 
is  very  troublesome.  The  oysters  must  be  laid 
upon  hot  coals,  after  the  shells  are  washed,  and 
allowed  to  remain  until  they  open,  when  they  are 
extracted  with  a  measure  of  success  which  depends 
upon  the  deftness  of  the  manipulator,  and  served 
with  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  An  easier  way 
is  to  arrange  them  in  a  large  pan,  set  it  over  a  very  hot 
fire,  and  turn  another  pan  over  it  until  the  oysters 
open  ;  there  is  less  exposure  to  intense  heat  in  follow- 
ing this  method  rather  than  the  first.  The  third  and 
easiest  way  is  to  arrange  the  deep  shells  of  oysters 
in  a  pan  and  set  them  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  they 
are  hot  enough  to  instantly  melt  a  bit  of  butter; 
this  is  then  put  into  each  one  together  with  an 
oyster  and  a  dust  of  pepper,  and  the  pan  is  replaced 
in  the  hot  oven  until  the  edges  of  the  oysters  curl ; 
the  shells  containing  them  are  then  quickly  trans- 
ferred to  a  hot  dish,  and  they  are  served  at  once. 
Oysters  seldom  need  to  be  salted.  Oysters  are  best 
when  cooked  quickly. 

Panned  Oysters. — These  are  almost  as  nice  as 
roast  oysters,  and  are  far  easier  to  prepare.  The 
oysters  must  be  freed  from  bits  of  shell,  and  their 
liquor  strained  and  saved  to  make  oyster  toast. 
Put  one  quart  of  oysters  into  a  shallow  frying-pan 
containing  enough  hot  butter  to  cover  the  bottom 


22  THE   PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOIC. 

of  the  pan,  add  the  oyster-juice,  a  dust  of  pepper, 
and  shake  the  pan  until  the  edges  of  the  oysters  be- 
gin to  curl ;  then  pour  them  on  buttered  toast  and 
serve  them  at  once.  All  cooked  oysters  deteriorate 
by  being  allowed  to  stand  after  they  are  done  ;  they 
should  be  eaten  immediately. 

Oyster  Toast. — Toast  half  a  dozen  slices  of  bread, 
and  pour  over  them  a  sauce  made  by  mixing  over 
the  fire  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
until  they  bubble,  and  then  gradually  stirring  in  the 
oyster  liquor,  heated,  adding  if  necessary  a  little 
boiling  water,  to  make  a  sauce  of  the  consistency  of 
cream  ;  the  sauce  should  be  allowed  to  boil  for  a 
couple  of  minutes,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  poured  on  the  toast.  Milk  may  be  used  instead 
of  water  if  there  is  not  sufficient  oyster  liquor  to 
make  the  sauce. 

Oyster  Fritters  (i  qt.). — The  oysters  should  be 
examined  for  bits  of  shell,  and  their  liquor  strained. 
Then  make  a  batter  by  mixing  two  cups  of  flour, 
the  yolk  of  one  raw  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  salad 
oil,  a  dust  of  cayenne  pepper  and  sufficient  oyster 
liquor  to  make  a  batter  just  thick  enough  to  sustain 
the  drops  from  the  spoon ;  plenty  of  fat  should  now 
be  heated  until  smoking;  the  white  of  the  egg 
should  be  beaten  stiff  and  gently  stirred  into  the 
batter  when  the  fat  is  hot,  together  with  the  oysters, 
whole  or  chopped,  and  it  should  be  put  into  the 
hot  fat  by  the  large  spoonful  and  fried  brown ;  the 
fritters  when  done  should  be  laid  on  brown  paper 
for  a  moment  to  free  them  from  grease,  and  then 
served  hot. 

Fried  Oysters.— The  fried  oysters  of  Parkinson, 


FISH  AND   SHELLFISH.  23 

the  celebrated  Philadelphia  caterer,  were  prepared 
by  dusting  them  with  flour  and  pepper,  dropping 
them  into  an  equal  mixture  of  lard  and  salad  oil 
made  smoking  hot,  and  serving  them  the  instant 
their  edges  began  to  curl.  Some  cooks  roll  them 
in  cracker  dust  or  Indian  meal  and  then  fry  them. 
A  substantial  dish  may  be  made  of  fried  oysters  by 
having  ready  some  mashed  potatoes  nicely  seasoned 
aind  placed  around  the  edge  of  a  hot  dish  in  such  a 
way  as  to  form  a  wall,  and  serving  the  oysters  in 
this  dish. 

Broiled  Oysters. — Make  as  many  nice  slices  of 
buttered  toast  as  there  are  persons  to  serve ;  allow 
half  a  dozen  oysters  for  each  one ;  dip  the  oysters  in 
melted  butter,  lay  them  between  the  bars  of  a  fine 
wire  gridiron,  and  broil  them  over  a  hot  fire  until 
their  edges  curl  ;  dust  them  with  pepper,  and  serve 
them  on  the  toast. 

Fried  Scallops. — These  delicate  shellfish  should 
be  rolled  in  Indian  meal  or  flour  seasoned  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  fried  brown  in  plenty  of  smoking 
hot  fat.  Sometimes  a  few  thin  slices  of  fried  salt 
pork  are  served  with  them. 

Scallops  and  Eggs. — Boil  one  pint  of  scallops 
gently  for  five  minutes,  drain  them,  tear  them  apart 
with  a  fork,  fry  them  five  minutes  in  hot  butter 
enough  to  prevent  burning,  with  a  palatable  season- 
ing of  pepper  and  salt ;  then  add  to  them  six  eggs, 
and  stir  like  scrambled  eggs  for  three  minutes  ; 
serve  on  toast. 

Scallops  and  Onions. — Peel,  slice,  and  fry  for 
three  minutes  half  a  dozen  onions  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  butter  ;  add  one  pint  of  scallops  to 


24  THE  PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

the  onions,  with  enough  more  butter  to  prevent 
burning,  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  them 
ten  minutes  longer,  and  serve  them  hot ;  buttered 
toast  is  a  great  addition  to  this  dish. 

Clam  Fritters. — Use  soft  clams ;  wash  them  in  cold 
water  and  strain  the  water  ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
with  the  hard  part  of  the  clams  chopped  fine  and 
boil  them  slowly  for  an  hour ;  then  drain  them  and 
use  the  broth  to  make  the  same  kind  of  batter  as 
that  given  in  the  recipe  for  Oyster  F?'itfers^  adding 
the  chopped  clams  instead  of  oysters,  and  fry  in  the 
same  way. 

Stewed  Clams. — Use  the  soft  parts  of  the  clams  ; 
make  a  white  sauce  by  mixing  a  tablespoonful  each 
of  butter  and  flour  over  the  fire,  adding  gradually 
to  it  a  pint  of  hot  milk  or  milk  and  water,  and  sea- 
son it  with  salt  and  pepper ;  put  in  the  soft  parts 
of  the  clams,  and  simmer  them  gently  for  fifteen 
minutes  where  the  heat  is  sufficiently  gentle  to  pre- 
clude burning.     Serve  hot. 

Clam  Chowder  (4  qts.). — Small  hard-shell  clams 
are  best  liked  for  chowder.  Wash  the  shells  of 
fifty,  put  them  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
pint  of  water,  and  cover  them  until  the  shells  open; 
then  take  out  the  clams  saving  all  the  broth,  and 
rinse  them  in  it  to  remove  every  grain  of  sand  ; 
leave  the  soft  parts  whole,  and  chop  the  hard  parts 
quite  fine ;  strain  the  broth  through  a  fine  cloth  to 
remove  all  sand.  Peel  and  cut  in  half  inch  dice  a 
quart  of  potatoes;  peel  and  slice  six  onions,  and  six 
tomatoes,  or  use  canned  tomatoes  ;  cut  half  a  pound 
of  fat  salt  pork  in  dice,  fry  it  brown  in  the  bottom 
of  a  saucepan  or  round  bottomed  iron  pot,  and  take 


FISH  AND    SHELLFISH.  25 

it  out  with  a  skimmer,  leaving  the  fat  in  the  pot ; 
if  the  fire  is  hot  turn  a  small  plate  bottom  up  in 
the  pot  to  keep  the  chowder  from  burning.  Put  all 
these  ingredients  in  the  pot  in  layers,  and  when 
half  are  used  put  in  half  a  pound  of  pilot  crackers 
or  sea  biscuit;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients, 
putting  another  half  pound  of  crackers  on  the  top, 
and  pour  in  the  clam  broth  and  sufficient  cold 
water  to  cover  all  an  inch  above  the  top  ;  add  a 
seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  marjorum, 
thyme,  and  savory  in  the  leaf;  let  the  chowder  sim- 
mer gently  an  hour;  then  add  a  cup  of  milk,  and 
serve  it.  The  onions  are  sometimes  fried  with  the 
pork. 

Stewed  Mussels. — When  mussels  are  good  their 
shells  are  dark  and  bright,  and  the  fish  do  not 
shrink  when  they  are  boiled.  Before  boiling  them 
lay  them  for  two  hours  in  a  tub  of  cold  water  con- 
taining a  handful  of  salt ;  this  will  remove  all  mud 
and  sand  from  them ;  then  wash  them  in  fresh  cold 
water,  put  them  into  a  pot  or  saucepan  and  set 
them  over  the  fire,  covered,  until  the  shells  open. 
The  mussels  must  then  be  taken  from  the  shells, 
and  carefully  freed  from  the  dark  fringe  upon  their 
edges,  the  thread-like  parts  near  the  joint  of  the 
shells,  and  all  mossy  or  hairy  portions ;  they  will 
then  be  ready  to  use.  To  stew  them  heat  them  in 
a  Dutch  sauce  made  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for 
Salt  Codfish  with  Dutch  Sauce,  and  serve  them  im- 
mediately, or  simply  heat  them  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt. 

Pickled  Mussels.— Boil  them  as  directed  in  the 
previous  recipe,  put  them  in  glass  jars,  and  cover 


26  THE  PEOPLES   COOK-BOOK. 

them  with  vinegar  heated  scalding  hot  with  whole 
pepper,  mace,  and  allspice. 

Boiled  Lobster. — Choose  a  lively  lobster,  heavy 
in  proportion  to  its  weight ;  put  it  into  a  large  pot 
containing  enough  boiling  water  to  entirely  cover  it, 
and  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  its  shell  is 
bright  red ;  then  remove  it  from  the  water,  and  cut  it 
up  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  to  handle.  The 
tail  should  be  broken  from  the  body  and  split  down 
the  centre  with  a  sharp  knife  ;  the  intestine  run- 
ning through  it  can  then  easily  be  seen  and  re- 
moved. The  large  claws  should  be  broken  off,  and 
separated  with  a  can-opener  with  less  trouble  than 
by  breaking  with  a  hammer,  as  they  can  be  cut  in 
such  a  way  as  to  permit  the  flesh  to  be  taken  from 
them  entire.  All  the  soft,  hairy  fins  which  lie  next 
to  the  body  must  be  thrown  away.  When  the  body 
of  the  fish  is  opened  the  red  coral  and  green  fat 
should  be  saved ;  the  stomach,  a  hard,  partly  bony 
organ,  which  lies  back  of  the  eyes,  should  be 
thrown  away.  The  lobster  will  then  be  ready  to 
dress. 

Stewed  Lobster. — Prepare  the  fish  as  directed  in 
the  last  recipe,  and  heat  it  in  a  Dutch  sauce, 
made  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  Salt  Codfish  with 
Dutch  Sauce;  or  simply  heat  it  quickly  with  suffi- 
cient cream  or  milk  to  moisten  it,  and  a  palatable 
seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Scalloped  Lobster. — Prepare  the  lobster  as  di- 
rected in  the  recipe  for  Sieiued  Lobster,  mince  the 
flesh  fine,  season  it  highly,  put  it  into  the  split  shell 
of  the  tail,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  each 
shell,  dust  it  thickly  with  pounded  cracker  or  bread- 


FISH  AND    SHELLFISH.  27 

crumbs,  and  brown  it  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Richer 
dishes  of  scalloped  lobster  are  made  by  adding  to 
them  cream  or  Dutch  sauce,  and  a  little  wine. 

Broiled  Lobster. — Prepare  the  lobster  as  already 
directed ;  split  the  body  as  well  as  the  tail,  leaving 
the  flesh  in  the  shell;  dust  the  flesh  with  salt  and 
pepper,  put  a  very  little  butter  over  it,  and  broil  it, 
the  flesh  towards  the  fire,  for  three  or  four  minutes ; 
serve  it  very  hot  A  cut  lemon  is  a  great  addition 
to  this  dish. 


CHAPTER    III. 

RELISHES    FOR    LUNCHEON    OR    SUPPER. 

Welsh  Earebit  with  Ale. — Stir  the  following  in- 
gredients together  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  until 
they  are  smoothly  blended,  and  then  pour  the  rare- 
bit on  a  large  slice  of  buttered  toast,  and  serve  it  im- 
mediately ;  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cheese  grated,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ale, 
a  saltspoonful  each  of  salt  and  dry  mustard,  quarter 
of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne. 
All  rarebits  should  be  eaten  as  soon  as  they  are 
done,  as  they  toughen  by  standing. 

Welsh  Rarehit  with  Bread. — Make  as  in  the 
former  recipe,  substituting  half  a  cupful  of  bread 
without  crust  soaked  soft  in  milk  for  the  ale. 

Welsh  Rarebit  with  Eggs. — Make  as  in  the  first 
recipe,  substituting  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  beaten 
with  half  a  cup  of  cold  milk  for  the  ale. 

Salmon  Sandwiches. — Chop  some  cold  smoked  or 
picked  salmon  very  fine,  or  pound  it  to  a  paste  in 
a  mortar,  season  it  highly  with  pepper,  mix  it  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  butter,  and  use  it  thinly  spread 
on  bread  for  sandwiches. 

Poultry  or  Game  Sandwiches. — Chop  fine  cold 
poultry  or  game  freed  from  skin  and  bone,  or  pound 
them  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  season  highly  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  cayenne.     To  make  sandwiches  butter 


RELISHES  FOR   LUNCHEON   OR    SUPPER.      2g 

some  thin  slices  of  bread,  trim  them  to  a  small  neat 
shape,  lay  a  leaf  of  fresh  lettuce  on  each,  and  en- 
close between  them  a  layer  of  the  cold  poultry. 
The  easiest  way  to  cut  bread  for  sandwiches  is  to 
trim  the  crust  from  a  loaf  at  least  a  day  old,  cut 
one  end  perfectly  even,  butter  it,  and  then  cut  off  a 
thin  slice ;  do  this  until  the  needed  quantity  is 
ready.  Finely  chopped  celery  dressed  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  vinegar  may  replace  the  lettuce ;  and  a 
little  cold  Dutch  sauce  greatly  adds  to  the  palata- 
bility  of  the  dish. 

Mackerel  and  Onion. — Freshen  a  salt  mackerel  as 
directed  in  the  recipe  for  B7'oiled  Salt  Mackerel^ 
remove  the  skin  and  bones,  and  cut  the  flesh  in 
small  thin  slices ;  peel  and  slice  very  thinly  a  cup- 
ful of  mild  onions,  lay  them  on  the  dish  with  the 
mackerel,  dress  them  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
oil,  one  of  vinegar,  and  plenty  of  pepper,  and  serve 
with  bread  and  butter  or  crackers. 

Salmaguixdi. — Arrange  in  successive  rings  on  a 
salad  dish  the  following  ingredients,  and  dress  them 
with  oil,  vinegar,  and  pepper,  as  directed  in  the  pre- 
ceding recipe  :  equal  quantities  of  herrings  or  bloat- 
ers, freed  from  skin  and  bone  and  cut  in  thin  slices, 
pickled  red  cabbage,  pickled  beets  chopped,  and 
hard-boiled  eggs. 

Potted  Meat,  Game,  Fish,  &c. — Free  any  kind  of 
cold  meat  from  skin,  bone,  and  gristle,  chop  or 
pound  it  to  a  paste,  adding  to  every  pound  of  it  two 
herrings,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cooked  ham  fat  or 
butter,  season  and  spice  it  highly,  pack  it  down  in 
earthen  jars,  and  cover  it  quarter  of  an  inch  above 
its  surface  with  clarified  butter;  then  cover  the  tops 


30  THE  PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK. 

of  the  jars  with  buttered  paper  or  bladder  wet  in 
cold  water,  tying  it  down  tightly  to  keep  out  the 
air,  and  keep  the  jars  in  a  cool  place. 

Cold  ham,  tongue,  poultry,  game,  or  fish  may  be 
treated  in  this  way  ;  smoked  fish  pots  well. 

Clarified  Butter. — Clarified  butter  is  prepared  by 
melting  butter  with  gentle  heat,  and  then  carefully 
pouring  it  off  the  salt  and  fibrous  substance  which 
sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel  in  which  the  butter 
is  melted. 

Hot  Egg  Salad. — Chop  one  tablespoonful  of 
pickle,  mix  it  with  an  equal  quantity  of  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  salad  oil.  Heat  in  a  frying-pan  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  oil,  break  three  eggs  into  it  and  stir  them 
over  the  fire  two  or  three  times,  in  order  to  slightly 
mix  the  whites  and  yolks  ;  let  them  cook  three  min- 
utes, then  pour  them  on  a  salad  dish,  and  serve  the 
salad  at  once  with  the  dressing  described  in  the  be- 
ginning of  the  recipe  poured  over  them. 


CHAPTER   IV. 

EGGS. 

Eggs  with  Burnt  Butter. — Break  half  a  dozen 
eggs,  putting  each  one  in  a  cup  to  keep  them  entire ; 
put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan 
and  brown  it  over  the  fire,  slip  the  eggs  into  the  hot 
butter  and  cook  them  to  the  desired  degree ;  then 
take  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  lay  them  on  toast 
and  set  the  dish  containing  them  where  they  will 
keep  hot.  Pour  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  into  the  but- 
ter, let  it  boil  up  once,  pour  it  over  the  eggs,  and 
serve  them  hot. 

Baked  Eggs  and  Cheese. — Lay  some  thin  slices 
of  cheese  on  a  buttered  flat  baking  dish,  break  as 
many  eggs  on  the  cheese  as  the  dish  will  hold  in  a 
single  layer,  dust  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  a 
small  bit  of  butter  on  each  one,  and  bake  them  to 
the  required  degree  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  them 
hot. 

Baked  Eggs,  Ardennes  Style. — Separate  the  whites 
and  yolks  of  six  eggs,  putting  each  yolk  by  itself  in 
a  cup,  and  the  whites  all  together  in  a  bowl ;  when 
all  the  eggs  are  broken  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  after  adding  to  them  a  saltspoonful  of  salt 
and  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper ;  spread 
them  on  a  buttered  dish,  slip  the  yolks  on  top,  lay- 
ing them  a  little  apart,  and  bake  for  five  minutes  in 


32  THE  PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

a  hot  oven,  or  until  they  are  light  brown ;  dust 
pepper  and  salt  over  the  top,  and  serve  them  hot. 

Fried  Eggs  with  Pickles. — Put  enough  butter, 
lard,  or  ham  fat  in  a  hot  frying-pan  to  entirely  cover 
the  bottom,  break  in  as  many  eggs  as  it  will  hold, 
dust  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  cook  them  to  the 
required  degi"ee,  and  put  them  on  a  hot  dish ;  mean- 
time chop  a  large  pickle  finely,  and  put  it  into  the 
frying-pan  for  one  minute  after  the  eggs  have  been 
taken  up,  then  put  it  on  them  and  serve  them  at 
once. 

Omelette  with  Crusts. — Fry  a  cupful  of  half- 
inch  pieces  of  bread  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for 
Beafi  Soup.  Break  three  eggs  and  mix  them  for  one 
minute  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  quarter  of  a 
saltspoonful  of  pepper;  meantime  heat  a  large  fry- 
ing-pan, melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  it,  pour 
in  the  eggs,  scatter  the  fried  bread  over  them,  and 
when  they  are  cooked  to  the  desired  degree,  roll 
the  omelette  towards  one  side  of  the  pan  by  slipping 
a  fork  under  one  side  and  turning  it  over;  then 
turn  the  omelette  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  it  at 
once.  All  omelettes  should  be  eaten  as  soon  as 
they  are  done. 

Onion  Omelette. — Prepare  three  eggs  as  directed 
in  the  last  recipe  ;  peel  and  slice  three  onions  and  fry 
them  light  brown  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter; 
then  add  the  eggs,  and  finish  the  omelette  as  di- 
rected in  the  last  recipe.  A  plain  breakfast  omelette 
can  be  made  by  leaving  out  the  bread  and  onions. 


CHAPTER   V. 

POULTRY     AND     BIRDS.    * 

Roast  Poultry. — As  all  poultry  is  roasted  in 
the  same  way  one  recipe  will  suffice  to  cover  the 
ground,  the  fact  being  kept  in  mind  that  different 
stuffings  are  required,  for  which  recipes  follow. 
To  prepare  a  bird  for  roasting  all  the  feathers 
must  be  removed,  and  flame  from  burning  paper, 
or  a  little  alcohol  lighted  on  a  plate,  employed 
to  singe  off  the  hairs ;  the  outside  should  then 
be  thoroughly  wiped  with  a  wet  towel ;  the  feet 
should  be  cut  off  just  below  the  joint  at  the  end 
of  the  drumstick,  and  thrown  into  boiling  water 
to  soften  the  skin,  and  the  joint  itself  scraped  to 
remove  the  skin,  and  wiped  with  a  wet  towel; 
by  cutting  the  legs  below  the  joint  the  skin  and 
flesh  are  held  in  place  during  the  cooking  of  the 
bird.  Next  the  head  should  be  removed,  the  skin 
cut  down  the  back  of  the  neck  and  pulled  forward 
to  admit  of  the  removal  of  the  crop  and  windpipe 
v/ithout  opening  the  skin  in  front ;  the  neck  should 
be  cut  off  close  to  the  body,  and  laid  by  for  subse- 
quent use.  A  slit  should  next  be  made,  running 
from  under  one  thigh  to  the  vent  and  around  it,  and 
the  skin  loosened  and  opened  to  admit  of  the  intro- 
duction of  the  hand,  which  should  be  used  to  loosen 
the  entrails  from  the  body  in  all  directions  so  that 


34  THE   PEOPLES   COOKBOOK. 

they  can  be  taken  out  without  tearing  them  apart, 
by  taking  care  to  remove  them  in  this  way  the 
danger  of  breaking  them  is  lessened,  and  if  they 
are  not  broken  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  wash  the 
inside  of  the  bird ;  the  washing  of  poultry,  by  re- 
moving some  of  the  blood,  deprives  it  of  a  corre- 
sponding amount  of  nutriment  and  flavor  ;  after  the 
entrails  are  taken  out  the  heart,  gizzard,  and  liver 
should  be  carefully  separated  from  them ;  the  gall 
should  be  cut  from  the  liver  without  breaking  it,  for 
if  it  is  broken  it  will  make  everything  it  touches 
bitter;  the  purple  flesh  of  the  gizzard  should  be  cut 
away  from  the  bag  of  food  and  gravel  which  it  con- 
tains ;  the  heart  should  be  trimmed  to  remove  any 
portion  of  the  entrails  adhering  to  it;  then  all  these 
parts,  together  with  the  neck,  and  the  feet,  which  must 
be  scraped  free  from  skin  and  have  the  toes  cut 
ofl",  may  be  put  into  water  and  boiled  tender  as  the 
basis  of  gravy,  or  used  to  make  a  giblet  stew.  The 
little  sack  or  oil  bag  at  the  back  of  the  tail  must  be 
cut  out,  as  the  oil  it  contains  is  generally  strong. 
The  bird,  so  dressed,  is  ready  for  stuffing  and  truss- 
ing, or  sewing  with  strong  twine  to  preserve  its 
shape  during  cooking.  To  roast,  or  rather  bake 
poultry,  lay  it  in  a  pan  with  a  slice  of  salt  pork 
under  and  another  over  it  unless  it  is  very  fat,  in 
which  case  it  will  yield  sufficient  dripping  for  bast- 
ing; brown  it  quickly,  but  do  not  burn  it;  thea 
season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  whatever  sweet  herb 
has  been  used  in  flavoring  the  stuffing,  and  baste  it 
while  it  cooks  with  the  dripping  in  the  pan  ;  if  the 
oven  is  of  the  proper  temperature,  not  too  hot,  no 
water  will  be  required  for  basting,  and  if  only  the 


POULTRY  AND   BIRDS.  35 

drippings  are  used  for  this  purpose  the  full  flavor  of 
the  bird  will  be  preserved.  If  a  "  frothed  "  surface 
is  desired  occasionally  dust  the  bird  with  flour  from 
the  dredging-box  while  basting  it.  To  make  the 
gravy  have  the  meat  from  the  giblets  chopped  fine, 
and  the  broth  in  which  they  were  boiled  hot  when 
the  bird  is  cooked;  remove  it  from  the  dripping 
pan  and  keep  it  hot;  if  there  is  more  than  about 
half  a  cup  of  dripping  in  the  pan  pour  it  out,  and 
keep  it  for  frying  potatoes  in ;  put  into  the  pan  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it 
is  brown,  then  add  the  chopped  giblets  and  enough 
of  their  broth  or  of  boiling  water  to  make  a  good 
gravy,  and  season  it  palatably.  About  fifteen  min- 
utes to  a  pound  is  generally  allowed  for  baking 
poultry.  Wild  ducks  and  game  are  always  served 
rare,  and  so  require  less  time  in  cooking  ;  only  their 
breasts  are  carved,  and  the  rest  of  the  birds  are 
served  again  in  ragoiits   or  brown  stews. 

Roast  Turkey  with  Oyster  Forcemeat. — Prepare 
the  turkey  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  Roast  Poultry^ 
stuffing  it  with  the  following  forcemeat :  Soak  suf- 
ficient stale  bread  to  fill  the  turkey  in  cold  water 
and  then  squeeze  it  nearly  dry  in  a  towel;  strip  one 
quart  of  oysters  through  the  fingers  to  remove  the 
bits  of  shell,  strain  their  liquor  and  add  it  to  the 
bread  ;  slightly  fry  the  oysters  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  hot  butter,  add  them  to  the  bread  with  the  but- 
ter in  which  they  were  fried,  season  the  forcemeat 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  use  it  for  the  turkey.  In- 
stead of  the  oysters  any  flavoring  or  seasoning  may 
be  used  in  the  stuffing. 

Turkey  Stew  with  Chestnuts. — Use  the  remains 


36  THE   PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK, 

of  roast  turkey  cut  in  pieces  two  inches  square, 
brown  it  quickly  in  a  saucepan  with  sufficient  but- 
ter to  prevent  burning,  stir  in  with  it  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  brown  that ;  meantime  cut 
the  shells  of  a  quart  of  large  chestnuts  (the  native 
nuts  will  do,  if  imported  ones  are  scarce  or  dear), 
put  them  into  a  hot  oven  or  in  a  frying-pan  over 
the  fire  until  the  shells  open  sufficiently  to  permit 
the  removal  of  the  nuts ;  rub  off  the  skins  with  a 
damp  cloth,  and  when  the  turkey  is  brown  add 
them  to  it  with  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a 
gravy;  season  the  stew  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
let  it  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour;  then  serve  it  on 
toast.  The  chestnuts  may  be  replaced  with  small 
dumplings,  pieces  of  potato,  or  small  onions  if  the 
change  is  desirable. 

Devilled  Turkey. — The  wings  and  drumsticks  of 
cold  turkey  make  the  best  dish  ;  score  them  with  a 
sharp  knife,  season  them  highly  with  salt,  pepper, 
cayenne,  and  dry  mustard,  broil  them  over  a  hot 
fire,  put  a  little  butter  on  them,  and  serve  them  hot, 
with  a  cut  lemon  or  some  vinegar. 

Roast  Duck  with  Onion  Stuffing. — Prepare  the 
duck  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  Roast  Poultry; 
soak  a  cupful  of  stale  bread  in  cold  water  and 
squeeze  it  nearly  dry  in  a  towel;  peel  and  slice  a 
pint  of  onions,  fry  them  brown  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  mix  the  soaked  bread  with  them, 
season  the  stuffing  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
powdered  sage,  and  use  it  in  the  duck. 

Devilled  Duck. — This  is  a  good  recipe  for  dress- 
ing a  small  duck.  Prepare  the  bird  as  directed  in 
the  recipe  for  Roast  Poultry^  split  it  down  the  back, 


POULTRY  AND   BIRDS.  37 

prick  the  skin  all  over  with  a  large  fork,  rub  into  it 
a  mixture  of  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  dry  mustard, 
and  a  little  of  any  good  table  sauce,  and  broil  it 
about  twenty  minutes  ;  serve  it  hot,  with  a  little  but- 
ter and  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

Braised  Duck  with  Green  Peas. — Prepare  a  small 
duck  as  for  roasting,  but  do  not  stuff  it ;  put  it  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  layer  of  slices  of  salt  pork  or 
bacon  under  it ;  over  it  strew  half  a  cupful  of  mixed 
minced  parsley,  leek  or  onion,  and  green  mint;  sea- 
son it  with  salt  and  pepper,  set  the  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  and  turn  the  duck  occasionally  until  it  is 
brown  all  over;  meantime  shell  a  quart  of  green 
peas ;  when  the  duck  is  brown  cover  it  with  boiling 
water,  put  in  the  peas  and  stew  it  gently  until  the 
bird  is  tender;  then  serve  the  duck  laid  on  the 
bacon  and  peas. 

Stewed  Duck  with  Cabbage. — Slice  a  small  head 
of  red  cabbage,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  on  a  table- 
spoonful  each  of  butter  and  vinegar  with  a  dozen 
whole  cloves,  a  dozen  peppercorns,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt;  cover  it  and  set  it  where  it  will  cook  very 
slowly.  Meantime  cut  in  two  inch  pieces  the  re- 
mains of  cold  roast  duck,  brown  them  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  seasoning  highly  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  when  quite  brown  put  them  on  top  of  the 
cabbage  and  continue  the  gentle  cooking  until  the 
cabbage  is  tender ;  turn  it  out  on  a  dish  and  serve 
the  duck  on  it. 

Roast  Goose  with  Apple  Stuffing. — Prepare  the 
goose  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  Roast  Poultry. 
Pare,  core,  and  quarter  enough  small  tart  apples  to 
fill  the  bird ;  slightly  brown  them   in  a  frying-pan 


38  THE   PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

containing  about  half  an  inch  of  hot  butter,  season 
them  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  very  little  allspice, 
put  them  into  the  goose,  and  sew  it  up  tightly  so 
that  none  may  escape  during  the  cooking  of  the 
bird.  In  Germany  half  the  stuffing  is  composed  of 
prunes  or  raisins  heated  in  butter  with  the  apples, 
or  used  uncooked. 

Ragout  of  Goose  and  Onions. — Cut  up  the  re- 
mains of  cold  roast  goose,  brown  it  quickly  in  a 
saucepan  with  only  enough  butter  to  prevent  burn- 
ing ;  in  another  saucepan  brown  a  pint  of  peeled 
button  onions  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  when  the  goose  is  brown  stir 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  it,  put  in  the  onions, 
and  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it ;  rinse  the 
saucepan  in  which  the  onions  were  browned  with 
half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  add  it  to  the  goose ; 
season  the  stew  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  it 
slowly  for  half  an  hour. 

Goose  Giblet  Stew. — Prepare  the  giblets  of  a  goose 
as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  Roast  Poultry;  in  ad- 
dition to  the  giblets  mentioned  in  that  recipe  the 
head  is  used  after  being  carefully  plucked  or  skin- 
ned, and  having  the  beak  chopped  off;  the  pinions 
or  wing  tips  also  belong  among  the  giblets ;  the  gib- 
lets should  be  cut  in  pieces  about  an  inch  square, 
and  browned  in  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  butter;  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  should  then  be  added  and 
browned,  and  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  them, 
together  with  salt  and  pepper  to  make  a  palatable 
seasoning,  and  the  stew  gently  cooked  until  the 
gizzard  is  tender. 

A  cupful   of  peeled  and  sliced   onion  is  some- 


POULTRY  AND  BIRDS.  39 

times  added  to  the  stew,  or  two  cupfuls  of  tart  ap- 
ples, pared  and  quartered.  It  should  be  served 
hot,  on  toast. 

Roast  Chicken. — Prepare  the  bird  as  directed  in 
the  recipe  for  Roast  Poultry  and  stuff  it  with  the 
following  forcemeat :  soak  two  cupfuls  of  stale 
bread  in  cold  water  and  squeeze  it  dry  in  a  towel ; 
chop  together  the  liver  and  an  equal  quantity  of 
salt  pork  or  bacon,  and  add  it  to  the  bread ;  add 
also  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  ateaspoon- 
ful  of  chopped  onion,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  grated 
lemon  rind  if  it  is  available;  season  the  forcemeat 
highly  with  pepper,  salt,  and  any  powdered  sweet 
herb  except  sage,  and  use  it  to  stuff  the  chicken. 

Spring  chickens  do  not  require  stuffing,  and 
should  be  roasted  very  quickly  to  avoid  drying  the 
flesh,  about  a  half  hour  being  generally  time  enough 
to  allow. 

Braised  Fowl. — Prepare  a  fowl  as  directed  in  the 
recipe  for  Roast  Poultry^  but  do  not  stuff  it ;  lay  it 
in  a  saucepan  on  some  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  or 
bacon,  put  with  it  a  calf's  foot  nicely  cleaned  and 
split,  or  a  pound  of  tripe  well  washed,  a  whole  car- 
rot scraped,  an  onion  peeled  and  stuck  with  ten 
whole  cloves,  ten  peppercorns,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt,  and  sufficient  boiling  water  or  water  and 
gravy  to  cover  it ;  cover  the  saucepan  tightly,  clos- 
ing the  edges  of  the  cover  with  a  thick  paste  of 
flour  and  water,  and  set  it  where  its  contents  will 
cook  very  slowly  for  three  hours.  Then  i^the  fowl 
is  tender  take  it  up,  strain  the  gravy,  remove  the 
fat  from  it,  season  it  palatably,  and  serve  it  with 
the  fowl.     The  tripe,  bacon  and  vegetables  may  be 


40  THE  PEOPLES   COOK-BOOK. 

rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve  with  a  potato  masher 
and  used  to  thicken  the  gravy  if  desired. 

Fowl  Stewed  Whole. — Prepare  the  fowl  as  direct- 
ed in  the  recipe  for  Roast  Poultry^  but  do  not  stuff 
it;  brown  it  in  hot  butter  in  a  saucepan  just  large 
enough  to  hold  it;  then  cover  it  with  boiHng  water, 
season  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one  carrot  and 
one  onion  peeled  and  sliced;  cover  the  saucepan 
closely,  and  simmer  the  fowl  until  it  is  tender;  serve 
it  with  the  sauce  containing  the  vegetables. 

Chicken  Fried  with  Hominy. — Dress  a  tender 
chicken  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  Roast  Poultry, 
and  cut  it  in  pieces  about  two  inches  square.  In  a 
large  frying-pan  heat  smoking  hot  enough  lard  to 
cover  the  bottom  half  an  inch  deep;  then  very 
quickly  dip  the  pieces  of  chicken,  one  at  a  time, 
into  cold  water,  roll  them  in  flour,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  put  them  at  once  into  the  hot  lard  ;  work  very 
fast,  and  as  the  pieces  brown  lay  them  on  one  side 
of  the  pan  to  make  room  for  others ,  when  all  are 
done,  put  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  fry  little  squares 
or  cakes  of  cold  boiled  hominy  in  the  same  fat ; 
serve  them  on  the  dish  with  the  chicken.  If  a 
gravy  is  desired  stir  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  into 
the  fat  in  the  frying-pan,  add  a  cup  of  cream,  if 
obtainable,  or  a  cup  of  milk  with  the  yolk  of  a  raw 
egg  beaten  into  it,  removing  it  at  once  from  the  fire 
if  the  milk  and  egg  are  used ,  season  it  palatably 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  it  in  a  bowl.  In 
the  SoiAh  gravy  is  not  poured  over  the  chicken  if 
fried  hominy  is  served  with  it. 

Boiled  Hominy. — Pick  over  and  wash  in  three 
waters  half  a  pint  of  hominy ;  put  it  over  the  fire 


POULTRY  AND   BIRDS.  4 1 

in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  water,  let  it  slowly 
reach  the  boiling  point,  and  boil  it  steadily  for  half 
an  hour,  stirring  it  occasionally  to  prevent  burning ; 
if  at  the  end  of  twenty-five  minutes  the  hominy  is 
not  thick  enough  to  hold  the  spoon  upright  leave 
the  cover  off  the  kettle  in  which  it  is  boiling,  so 
that  some  of  the  moisture  may  escape  in  steam ; 
stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful 
each  of  butter  and  flour.  Wet  an  earthen  dish 
with  cold  water  and  pour  the  hominy  into  it  to 
cool. 

If  a  farina  kettle  is  used  for  boiling  the  hominy 
the  water  in  the  outer  kettle  must  boil  constantly, 
and  a  quarter  of  an  hour  extra  must  be  allowed. 

Chicken  and  Sweet  Corn.  —  Prepare  a  young 
chicken  as  directed  in  the  preceding  recipe,  but 
do  not  dip  it  in  water  or  flour;  fry  it  brown  in  a 
saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  butter; 
add  the  grains  cut  from  a  dozen  ears  of  corn  and 
a  quart  of  milk,  and  stew  gently  for  half  an  hour ; 
then  season  palatably  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve. 

Chicken  and  Green  Peas. — Cut  cold  roast  or 
boiled  chicken  in  small  pieces,  brown  them  in  but- 
ter, stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  when  it  is 
brown  add  a  can  of  peas  and  the  liquor  in  which 
they  were  preserved ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
heat  five  minutes,  and  serve  on  toast. 

Ragout  of  Small  Birds. — Remove  all  feathers 
from  small  birds,  draw  them,  brown  them  quickly  in 
a  little  butter,  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  season 
them  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  them  gently 
stew  while  some  hominy  is  being  fried.     Cut  slices 


42  THE   PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

of  cold  boiled  hominy,  prepared  as  directed  in  the 
recipe  for  boiled  hominy,  allowing  as  many  slices 
as  there  are  birds,  fry  them  brown  in  smoking  hot 
fat,  lay  a  bird  on  each  slice,  and  pour  over  all  the 
sauce  in  which  the  birds  were  stewed. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

MEATS. 

Roasting. — The  roasting   of  meat    is  so  simple 
an  operation  that  the  wonder  is  how  many  juice- 
less  and  flavorless  joints  find  their  way  to  the  ta- 
ble.    In  a  book  of  this  size  it  is  not  possible  to 
give  more  than  the  outlines  of  proper  methods  of 
cookery;    the  discussion  of  reasons  for   following 
them  belongs  to  and  is  given  in  the  author's  larger 
works.     American  roasts  usually  consist  of  baked 
meats ;  but  baked  meats  can  be  cooked  so  as  to  re- 
tain all  their  flavor  and  juices  by  paying  attention 
to  the  following  rules  :    do  not  wash  meat ;    if  it 
has  on  it  bits  of  straw,  sawdust,  or  any  other  sub- 
stance which  it  is  likely  to  gather  in  the  butcher's 
shop,  wipe  its  surface  with  a  wet  cloth,  or  scrape 
it ;  if  it  is  torn  or  dried  trim  off"  the  poor  parts  ; 
never  use  tainted  meat ;  do  not  season  meat  until 
after  its  surface  is  brown ;  do  not  put  water  into 
the  pan  with  meat  prepared  for  baking,  but  if  the 
joint  is  very  lean  add  to  it  sufficient  dripping  to 
prevent  the  burning  of  the  pan;    while  the  meat 
requires  to  be  browned  quickly  in  order  to  keep  in 
all  the  juices,  do  not  let  the  oven  be  hot  enough 
to  burn  it ;  if  possible  keep  one  oven  for  cooking 
meat  and  another  for  pies  and  cakes  ;    make  the 
gravy  for  roast  meats  as  directed   in   the  recipes 


44  THE   PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

for  roast  poultry.  Rare  roast  meats  require  about 
fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound,  well  done  roasts 
twenty  minutes ;  veal  and  pork  should  be  very 
well  done. 

Broiling. — The  rules  for  roasting  meat  apply  to 
broiling,  except  that  instead  of  cooking  it  in  the 
oven  it  is  to  be  quickly  browned  first  on  one  side 
and  then  on  the  other,  over  a  hot  fire,  and  removed 
a  little  from  the  fire  to  finish  cooking;  meat  an 
inch  thick  will  broil  in  about  twenty  minutes ;  it 
should  be  seasoned  after  it  is  cooked. 

Boiling  and  Stewing. — Fresh  meat  for  boiling 
should  be  put  into  boiling  water  and  boiled  very 
gently  about  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound;  a 
little  salt,  spice,  or  vegetables  may  be  boiled  in  the 
water  with  the  meat  for  seasoning;  a  little  vine- 
gar put  in  the  water  with  tough  meat  makes  it 
tender  ;  the  broth  of  boiled  meat  should  always  be 
saved  to  use  in  soups,  stews,  and  gravies. 

Stewing  and  simmering  meats  means  to  place 
them  near  enough  to  the  fire  to  keep  the  water 
on  them  bubbling  moderately,  constantly  and 
slowly. 

Salt  meats  should  be  put  over  the  fire  in  cold 
water,  and  that  as  soon  as  it  boils  should  be  re- 
placed by  fresh  cold  water,  the  water  being  changed 
until  it  remains  fresh  enough  to  give  the  meat  a 
palatable  flavor  when  done;  salted  and  smoked 
meats  require  about  thirty  minutes'  very  slow  boil- 
ing, from  the  time  the  water  boils,  to  each  pound ; 
vegetables  and  herbs  may  be  boiled  with  them  to 
flavor  them  ;  when  they  are  cooked  the  vessel  con- 
taining them  should  be  set  where  they  will    keep 


MEA  TS.  45 

hot  without  boiling  until  required,  if  they  are  to  be 
served  hot ;  if  to  be  served  cold  they  should  be  al- 
lowed to  cool  in  the  pot  liquor  in  which  they  were 
boiled  ;  very  salt  meats,  or  those  much  dried  in 
smoking,  should  be  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water 
before  boiling. 

Frying. — There  are  two  distinct  methods  of  fry- 
ing, one  with  very  little  fat  in  the  pan ;  to  practise 
this  successfully  the  pan  and  fat  must  be  hot  before 
the  article  to  be  fried  is  put  into  it ;  for  instance, 
in  frying  chops,  if  the  pan  is  hot,  and  only  fat 
enough  is  used  to  keep  the  chops  from  sticking  to 
it,  the  heat  being  maintained  so  that  the  chops 
cook  quickly,  they  will  be  nearly  as  nice  as  if  they 
were  broiled.  Frying  by  the  other  method  con- 
sists in  entirely  immersing  the  article  to  be  cooked 
in  sufficient  smoking  hot  fat  to  cover  it,  and  keep- 
ing the  fat  at  that  degree  of  heat  until  the  food 
is  brown ;  it  should  then  be  taken  up  with  a  skim- 
mer and  laid  on  brown  paper  for  a  moment  to  free 
it  from  grease. 

Warming  over  Cold  Meat. — As  a  variation  to 
the  usual  ways  of  serving  cold  meats  in  cold  and 
ragged  joints  or  uninviting  hash,  the  suggestion  is 
offered  that  after  the  housekeeper  has  sliced  off 
what  she  desires  to  serve  cold  she  should  try  the 
few  recipes  for  warming  cold  meats  which  form 
part  of  this  chapter ;  they  are  but  the  slightest 
hint  of  what  can  6e  done  with  cold  meat ;  a  vol- 
ume would  be  required  for  the  adequate  treatment 
of  this  subject. 

Roast  Beef  with  Horseradish  Sauce. — Roast  a 
piece  of  beef  according  to  the  directions  given  for 


4-6  THE  PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

roasting  meat,  and  serve  it  with  a  sauce  made  as 
follows,  or  with  grated  horseradish  and  vinegar : 

Horseradish  Sauce. — Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  horseradish  into  a  bowl ;  stir  into  it  with  a 
wooden  spoon  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salad  oil  added  gradually,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and 
quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 

Braised  Beef. — Choose  a  strip  of  the  flank  of 
beef  three  or  four  times  as  long  as  it  is  wide,  and 
weighing  'about  four  pounds,  wipe  it  with  a  wet 
cloth,  season  it  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  ground 
cloves,  roll  it  compactly,  and  tie  it  in  shape  with  a 
strong  cord ;  heat  a  tablespoonful  qf  drippings  in  a 
saucepan  large  enough  to  hold  the  beef,  put  it  into 
the  hot  fat,  and  turn  it  about  until  it  is  browned  on 
all  sides ;  then  put  over  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  turn  it  over  repeatedly  until  the  flour  is 
brown;  cover  it  with  boiling  water,  season  the 
gravy  thus  made  palatably  with  salt  and  pepper,  put 
on  the  cover  of  the  saucepan,  cement  it  around  the 
edges  with  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water,  and 
place  it  where  its  contents  will  simmer  for  three 
hours.  In  two  hours  prepare  a  red  cabbage  as  di- 
rected in  the  recipe  for  Stewed  JDtick  with  Cabbage, 
and  cook  it  slowly  until  tender;  keep  it  hot  to 
serve  under  the  beef,  from  which  the  string  must 
be' removed  before  it  is  laid  on  the  cabbage;  serve 
the  sauce  of  the  beef  in  a  gravy  bowl. 

Stew  of  Tough  Beef. — When  a  tough  piece  of 
beef  is  to  be  cooked  cut  it  in  two-inch  pieces, 
dip  each  piece  in  vinegar,  put  them  into  a  saucepan 
without  water,  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper, 


ME  A  TS.  47 

cover  the  saucepan  tightly,  and  stew  its  contents 
gently  for  two  hours.  Then  pare  an  equal  quantity 
of  potatoes,  cut  them  in  half-inch  pieces,  put  them 
with  the  beef,  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover 
them,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  continue 
cooking  the  stew  until  they  are  tender  ;  serve  it  hot. 

Ragodt  of  Cold  Beef  and  Vegetables. — Cut  cold 
beef  in  inch  squares,  brown  it  in  hot  drippings, 
sprinkle  it  with  flour  and  let  that  brown,  cover  it 
with  boiling  water,  and  season  it  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; add  to  it  any  cold  vegetables  cut  in  similar 
pieces,  heat  them,  and  serve  the  stew. 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb  or  Mutton. — Wipe  a  leg  of 
lamb  or  mutton  with  a  wet  cloth  ;  run  a  sharp  thin 
bladed  knife  between  the  skin  and  flesh  where  the 
leg  is  thickest,  in  such  a  manner  as  to  form  a  pouch 
for  the  stuffing ;  into  this  pouch  put  the  flesh  of  a 
red  herring,  highly  seasoned  with  pepper,  and 
pounded  to  a  paste,  forcing  it  as  far  as  possible 
under  the  skin  ;  roast  the  leg  according  to  the  di- 
rections given  for  roasting  all  kinds  of  meat.  French 
cooks  put  a  clove  of  garlic  into  the  flesh  close  to 
the  end  of  the  shank  bone  of  a  leg  of  mutton  be- 
fore roasting  it. 

Garlic  Cloves. — Garlic  when  marketed  looks  some- 
what like  a  dried  tuberose  root ;  it  divides  when 
broken  into  many  small  lobes  called  "  cloves  ;"  each 
clove  is  covered  with  an  inner  skin  which  must  be 
removed  before  the  clove  is  used  for  flavoring. 

Fried  Breast  of  Mutton. — Boil  a  breast  of  mut- 
ton, according  to  the  directions  for  boiling  meat, 
until  it  is  tender  enough  to  permit  the  bones  to  be 
pulled  out ;    lay  it  between  two  platters,  under  a 


48  THE   PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK, 

weight,  until  it  is  quite  cold ;  then  roll  it  in  bread- 
crumbs and  fry  it  whole  in  a  dripping  pan  large 
enough  to  hold  it  flat,  in  sufficient  smoking  hot  fat 
to  cover  it ;  or  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  before  bread- 
ing it,  and  fry  it  in  an  ordinary  frying  kettle.  Fried 
onions  or  tomatoes  may  be  used  to  garnish  this  dish. 

Breading. — The  "  breading"  of  any  article  con- 
sists of  simply  rolling  its  moist  surface  in  sifted 
bread-crumbs  or  cracker  dust;  if  the  crumbs  are 
unlikely  to  stick  the  article  is  next  dipped  in  beaten 
egg,  and  then  again  rolled  in  crumbs.  The 
crumbs  should  always  be  sifted  so  that  they  maybe 
of  one  size,  and  as  fine  as  possible,  or  they  will  be 
apt  to  fall  off  during  frying.  They  are  made  by 
drying  stale  bread,  rolling  it  fine,  and  sifting  it 
through  a  fine  sieve ;  the  coarser  crumbs  may  again 
be  rolled  and  sifted,  or  kept  for  stuffing  or  puddings. 
Crackers  can  be  rolled  in  the  same  way ;  cracker 
dust  is  sold  ready  for  use. 

Irish  Stew. — Cut  three  pounds  of  breast  of  mut- 
ton in  two-inch  pieces,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  stew  all  together 
gently  for  an  hour;  then  add  a  pint  of  onions 
peeled  and  sliced,  and  a  quart  of  potatoes  peeled 
and  cut  in  inch  pieces,  and  again  stew  gently  for 
an  hour ;  the  stew  should  be  kept  closely  covered 
while  cooking. 

Persillade  of  Mutton. — Slice  cold  mutton,  lay  it 
on  a  dish  which  can  be  sent  to  the  table,  sprinkle 
the  surface  thinly  with  chopped  onion  and  parsley, 
season  it  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  it  with 
cold  gravy,  dust  the  surface  with  bread  or  cracker 


ME  A  TS.  49 

crumbs,  and  brown  it  in  the  oven  ;  serve  it  at  once. 

Veal  a  la  Mode. — Wipe  with  a  wet  cloth  a  solid 
piece  of  lean  veal  weighing  five  or  six  pounds  ; 
make  half  a  dozen  holes  in  it  by  running  the  knife 
steel  through  it,  parallel  with  the  fibre  of  meat,  and 
working  it  about  to  make  holes  large  enough  to  ad- 
mit the  forefinger  ;  fill  the  holes  with  a  forcemeat 
made  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  Jioast  Chicken^ 
omitting  the  chicken  liver  ;  lay  the  veal  in  a  sauce- 
pan just  large  enough  to  hold  it,  pour  over  it  boil- 
ing water,  sprinkle  in  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half 
a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  cover  it  steam  tight,  and 
stew  it  gently  for  two  hours  ;  if  the  gravy  is  not 
thick  enough  stir  in  a  little  flour  mixed  with  cold 
water,  and  boil  it  for  two  minutes  ;  remove  the  meat 
before  adding  the  flour. 

Breast  of  Veal  Baked  with  Tomatoes. — After 
wiping  a  breast  of  veal  with  a  wet  cloth  lay  it  in  a 
small  dripping  pan,  and  brown  it  quickly  in  a  hot 
oven.  Meantime  peel  and  slice  a  pint  of  tomatoes, 
or  use  those  which  have  been  canned ;  when  the 
veal  is  brown  season  it  highly  with  pepper  and  salt, 
pour  the  tomatoes  over  it,  and  bake  it  until  the 
meat  is  well  done.  Serve  it  with  the  tomatoes  on 
the.  same  dish. 

Breast  of  Veal  Braised. — After  wiping  a  breast 
of  veal  with  a  wet  towel  remove  the  bones  with  a 
sharp  knife,  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  roil  it 
and  tie  it  compactly ;  put  it  over  the  fire  in  boiling 
water  enough  to  cover  it,  with  a  small  onion  and 
turnip  peeled,  a  small  carrot  scraped,  a  dozen 
whole  cloves,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper-corns, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  fasten  the  cover  of  the 


50  THE  PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

saucepan  with  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water,  and 
gently  cook  the  veal  for  two  hours.  Then  take  it 
up,  remove  the  string,  and  keep  it  hot ;  strain  the 
broth,  and  use  it  to  make  a  white  sauce  as  follows: 

White  Sauce. — For  each  pint  desired  mix  to- 
gether over  the  fire  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  flour  until  they  bubble  ;  then  gradually  stir  in 
a  pint  of  boiling  broth  or  water,  stirring  constantly 
until  all  lumps  are  removed,  season  palatably  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  let  the  sauce  boil  before  using  it. 

Before  taking  up  the  meat  peel  a  pint  of  potatoes, 
cut  them  in  half-inch  dice,  throw  them  into  salted 
boiling  water  and  boil  them  until  tender ;  then  mix 
them  with  the  white  sauce,  put  them  on  a  platter, 
and  serve  the  veal  on  them. 

Veal  with  Brown  Sauce. — Cut  cold  veal  in  two- 
inch  pieces,  brown  them  over  the  fire  in  sufficient 
hot  butter  to  prevent  burning,  dust  flour  over  them, 
about  a  tablespoonful  for  two  pounds  of  meat ; 
when  the  flour  is  brown  cover  the  meat  with  boil- 
ing water,  season  the  stew  highly  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, add  to  it  sufficient  nice  table  sauce  to  flavor  it, 
and  when  it  has  boiled  five  minutes  serve  it  on  toast. 

Boiled  Tongue. — Proceed  according  to  the  di- 
rections given  in  the  recipe  for  Boiling  Salt  Meats. 
When  the  tongue  is  done  the  skin  can  easily  be 
stripped  off,  and  the  rough  parts  about  the  root 
trimmed  away ;  these  parts,  freed  from  bone  and 
gristle,  make  excellent  hash. 

Boiled  Corned  Beef. — Follow  the  directions  for 
Boiling  Salt  Meats.  When  vegetables  are  to  be 
served  with  corned  beef  they  may  be  boiled  with  it 
until   tender,   allowing   them    to   cook   only   long 


ME  A  TS.  5 1 

enough  to  make  them  tender.  Cabbage  is  usually 
boiled  several  hours,  when  it  will  sometimes  boil 
tender  in  a  quarter  or  half  an  hour ;  by  unnecessary 
boiling  it  becomes  watery,  and  emits  an  unpleasant 
and  penetrating  vapor. 

Boiled  Ham. — Follow  the  directions  for  Boiling 
Salt  Meats.  When  the  ham  is  done,  if  it  is  to  be 
served  hot,  take  it  up,  strip  off  the  skin,  dust  it  with 
fine  bread-crumbs  or  cracker  dust,  and  brown  it  in 
a  quick  oven. 

Boiled  Salt  Pork  with  Greens. — Follow  the  recipe 
for  Boiled  Corned  Beef^  using  young  beets,  beet 
tops,  spinach,  dandelions,  cabbage  sprouts,  or  kale, 
instead  of  head  cabbage. 

Pork  Chops,  Spanish  Style. — Trim  off  nearly  all 
the  fat,  chop  it  and  put  it  into  a  hot  frying-pan 
over  the  fire  until  it  is  brown ;  then  fry  the  chops 
brown  in  the  same  fat,  season  them  with. salt  and 
pepper,  squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  a  sour 
orange,  and  keep  them  hot  while  some  eggs,  one  for 
each  chop,  are  being  fried  in  the  same  fat ;  when 
the  eggs  are  cooked  to  the  desired  degree  lay  them 
on  the  chops,  pour  the  fat  over  them,  and  serve  at 
once. 

Roast  Pork.— Use  the  chine  or  loin  of  fresh 
pork ;  cut  out  the  bone,  replace  it  with  a  stuffing  of 
stale  bread  soaked  soft  in  cold  water  and  seasoned 
highly  with  salt,  pepper,  powdered  sage,  and  a  lit- 
tle chopped  onion ;  sew  up  the  cut  to  keep  in  the 
stuffing,  and  bake  the  pork  in  a  moderate  oven  half 
an  hour  to  each  pound ;  season  it  when  brown  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  sage.  More  than  all 
other  meats  pork  requires  thorough  cooking. 


52  THE  PEOPLES  COOK-BOOK. 

Pork  Tenderloins. — Stuff  and  roast  them  accord- 
ing to  the  preceding  recipe;  or  split  them  open, 
and  fry,  or  broil  them  very  brown ;  season  them 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  sage  ;  or  in  place 
of  the  sage,  when  they  are  fried,  mix  some  chop- 
ped pickle  with  the  gravy,  and  pour  it  over  them. 
Cook  them  thoroughly. 

Philadelphia  Scrapple. — Wash  a  fresh  pig's  head, 
or  use  in  its  place  about  five  pounds  of  the  trimmings 
of  pork  mixed  with  the  liver,  heart,  tongue,  brains, 
and  feet ;  boil  the  meat  in  four  quarts  of  water  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  until  the  bones  fall  out; 
then  strain  it,  pouring  it  into  a  fine  sieve ;  wash  out 
the  pot,  put  the  broth  again  into  it,  and  set  it  over 
the  fire ;  remove  every  particle  of  bone  from  the 
meat,  chop  it  fine,,  and  return  it  to  the  broth  ;  sea- 
son it  very  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  thyme, 
and  mar  jorum ;  let  it  boil,  and  then  stir  into  it  yel- 
low Indian  meal  until  the  spoon  will  stand  upright 
in  it ;  let  it  boil  slowly  for  an  hour,  stirring  it  often 
enough  to  prevent  burning;  then  pour  it  out  in 
square  cornered  pans  wet  with  cold  water,  and  let 
it  cool.  It  will  then  be  ready  to  slice,  roll  in  Indian 
meal,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat,  whenever  it  is 
wanted. 

In  the  author's  School  of  Cookery  this  dish  is 
sometimes  made  of  the  trimmings  of  beef,  veal,  or 
mutton,  the  liver,  heart,  tongue,  and  brains  being 
also  used. 

Broiled  Liver.— Cut  the  liver  of  lamb,  calf,  or  beef 
into  pieces  half  an  inch  thick  and  two  inches  square ; 
cut  an  equal  number  of  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  or 
bacon  ;  put  the  liver  and  bacon  alternately  on  metal 


MEATS.  53 

skewers,  arranging  the  slices  loosely  so  that  the 
heat  may  reach  them  equally,  and  broil  them 
thoroughly  ;  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve  them,  on  the  skewers,  on  toast. 

Baked  Liver  and  Bacon. — Put  in  a  baking  dish, 
in  alternate  layers,  a  pound  of  liver  and  half  a 
pound  of  bacon  sliced,  together  with  a  quart  of 
potatoes  and  two  onions  peeled  and  sliced ;  season 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  in  sufficient  hot 
water  to  half  cover  these  ingredients,  and  bake 
them  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  all  are 
done.  A  crust  of  plain  pastry,  or  of  mashed  pota- 
toes may  be  used  to  cover  the  pudding  if  desired. 

Ragout  of  Pickled  Tongue. — Cut  in  inch  pieces 
any  kind  of  cold  pickled  tongue,  brown  them  in  hot 
butter  enough  to  prevent  burning,  cover  them  with 
boiling  water,  and  season  the  ragodt  highly  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  peel  and  slice  an  equal  quantity 
of  potatoes,  add  them  to  the  ragodt^  and  stew  it 
gently  until  they  are  tender. 

Apples  Stuffed  with  Sausage. — Remove  the  cores 
from  sour  apples  without  breaking  them,  stuff  them 
with  highly  seasoned  sausage  meat,  and  bake  them 
until  the  meat  is  done,  in  a  moderate  oven ;  serve 
them  hot,  on  toast,  with  the  drippings  in  the  pan 
poured  over  them.  Any  other  chopped  meat,  raw 
or  cooked,  may  be  substituted  for  the  sausage  meat. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled  Potatoes. — If  potatoes  are  ripe  they  can 
always  be  made  mealy  by  careful  cooking.  They 
are  to  be  well  washed  with  a  cloth  or  brush  in 
plenty  of  cold  water;  if  they  are  to  be  served  in 
their  jackets,  a  strip  of  the  paring  should  be  cut  off 
all  around  each  potato  ;  or  they  may  be  entirely 
peeled  before  cooking,  but  even  in  careful  hands 
this  entails  the  loss  of  about  an  ounce  in  each 
pound,  and  some  of  the  loss  is  of  valuable  mineral 
elements;  it  is  better  to  boil  them  in  their  jackets 
and  peel  them  before  serving. 

Some  cooks  prefer  to  put  them  over  the  fire  in 
cold  water,  but  their  cooking  is  expedited  by  using 
actually  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt  to  each  quart  of  water,  and 
boiling  them  until  tender,  but  not  broken ;  the  wa- 
ter should  then  be  poured  off,  the  potatoes  covered 
with  a  folded  towel,  and  the  saucepan  containing 
them  placed  where  they  can  keep  hot  without  burn- 
ing for  five  or  ten  minutes;  the  moisture  of  the  po- 
tatoes will  escape  through  the  towel  in  the  form  of 
steam,  leaving  them  dry  and  mealy.  They  should 
be  covered  with  a  napkin  when  served,  not  with  the 
cover  of  the  dish;  the  steam  condensing  on  the 
dish  cover  and  falling  upon  the  potatoes  in  the  form 
of  moisture  makes  them  soggy  even  if  they  have 


VEGETABLES.  55 

been  carefully  cooked ;  they  should  not  be  taken 
from  the  saucepan  until  wanted  for  the  table. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Wash  them  thoroughly,  put 
them  into  a  hot  oven,  bake  them  only  until  they  are 
tender  enough  to  break  open  easily,  and  serve  them 
as  soon  as  they  are  done;  cover  them  only  with  a 
napkin  in  sending  them  to  the  table  ;  and  remember 
that  a  baked  potato  is  never  so  nice  if  it  has  been 
allowed  to  stand  before  it  is  eaten. 

Larded  Potatoes. — After  washing  use  an  apple- 
corer  to  take  a  piece  out  of  the  potatoes  from  end 
to  end ;  keep  these  pieces  in  cold  water  to  use  for 
the  dish  next  named ;  in  each  potato  put  a  strip  of 
salt  pork  or  bacon  seasoned  with  pepper,  and  bake 
them  in  an  earthen  dish  in  which  they  can  be  sent 
to  the  table.     Serve  them  hot. 

Fried  Bacon  and  Potatoes. — Brown  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  a  frying-pan,  stir 
among  them  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper ; 
slice  a  pint  of  potatoes,  whole  or  in  pieces,  put  them 
with  the  bacon  and  stew  them  until  tender ;  serve 
them  hot. 

Potatoes  and  Onions. — Peel,  slice,  and  fry  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  drippings  half  a  dozen  onions  ; 
boil,  peel,  and  slice  a  quart  of  potatoes,  or  heat 
with  a  little  butter  some  cold  sliced  ones  ;  season 
them  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  the  onions  over 
them,  and  serve  them  hot.  Bacon  fried,  and  served 
with  this  dish,  is  excellent ;  the  bacon  drippings 
serving  to  fry  the  onions.  Fried  ham  may  be  used 
in  the  same  way. 

Stuffed  SWeet  Potatoes. — Wash,  boil   tender  in 


56  THE  PEOPLE'S   COOKBOOK. 

boiling  water,  cut  a  slice  from  one  side  of  each  one, 
scoop  out  nearly  all  the  interior,  mash  it  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  butter,  or  omit  the  butter  using  in- 
stead some  cooked  bacon,  fat  ham,  or  sausage  meat ; 
return  this  forcemeat  to  the  potatoes,  replace  the 
slices  first  cut  off,  put  the  potatoes  in  the  oven  to 
heat  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  them  hot. 

Potatoes  Fried  in  Cream. — Mix  together  over  the 
fire  half  a  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter  until 
it  bubbles,  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  beating  the 
sauce  smooth,  season  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and 
quarter  as  much  pepper  ;  use  enough  of  this  sauce 
to  moisten  some  cold  chopped  potatoes,  and  fry 
them  brown  in  butter,  keeping  them  pressed  to- 
gether to  make  a  cake.  Cold  chopped  potatoes  are 
nice  browned  in  fat  without  the  sauce,  and  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Potato  Balls. — Use  cold  mashed  potatoes;  heat 
them  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  mix  with  each 
pint  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley ;  wet  the  hands  in  cold  water, 
make  up  the  potato  in  little  balls,  roll  them  in  flour, 
and  fry  them  light  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat.  A 
variation  in  this  dish  may  be  made  by  substituting 
grated  onion  for  the  parsley. 

Stewed  Carrots. — Scrape  a  pint  of  small  carrots, 
boil  them  tender  in  boiling  water  and  salt ;  make  a 
cream  sauce  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  Potatoes 
Fried  in  Cream.,  put  the  carrots  into  it  with  a  table- 
spoonful of  lemon-juice,  and  serve  them  at  once. 

Carrots,  Flemish  Style. — Scrape  and  slice  two 
large  carrots,  boil  them  tender  in  boiling  water  and 
salt,  heat  them  in  some  white  sauce  made  as  di- 


VEGETABLES.  5' 

rected  in  the  previous  recipe,  using  water  instead 
of  milk,  remove  them  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  yolk 
of  a  raw  egg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, and  serve  them. 

Fried  Carrots. — Cut  boiled  carrots  in  thick  slices, 
roll  them  in  flour,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  fry  them 
brown  in  hot  fat. 

Stewed  Turnips. — Dress  them  as  directed  in  the 
recipe  for  Carrots^  Fleitiish  Style^  substituting  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard  and  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar 
for  the  chopped  parsley. 

Glazed  Turnips. — Pare  a  dozen  small  turnips, 
boil  them  tender  in  boiling  water  and  salt,  dry  them 
on  a  towel,  put  them  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  con- 
taining a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  sugar,  and  shake  the  saucepan  occasionally  until 
they  are  brown  ;  serve  hot. 

Cabbage  and  Onions. — Peel  and  slice  four  onions, 
fry  them  brown  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  drippings  from  salt  pork  or  bacon;  meantime 
slice  a  small  white  cabbage,  put  it  with  the  browned 
onions,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  quarter 
of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  cover  the  saucepan  tight, 
and  cook  its  contents  until  the  cabbage  is  tender. 
A  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  may  be  added  just  be- 
fore serving. 

Cabbage  Fried  with  Cream. — Chop  a  quart  of 
cold  boiled  cabbage,  fry  it  fifteen  minutes  with 
sufficient  butter  or  drippings  to  prevent  burning, 
season  it  highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  into 
it  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  of  milk  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  flour  mixed  with  it;  let  it  cook  five  minutes 
longer,  and  serve  it  hot. 


58  THE  PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK. 

Glazed  Onions. — Dress  peeled  button  onions  as 
directed  in  the  recipe  for  Glazed  Tu7'nips. 

Stewed  Onions. — Peel  a  quart  of  onions  and  boil 
them  tender  in  boiling  water  and  salt;  dry  them  on 
a  towel,  roll  them  in  flour,  pepper,  and  salt,  fry 
them  brown  in  sufficient  butter  to  prevent  burning, 
cover  them  with  cold  gravy,  stew  them  five  minutes, 
and  serve  them  hot. 

Fried  Onions  and  Bread. — Fry  three  slices  of  bread 
in  plenty  of  hot  fat  and  lay  them  on  a  dish;  peel 
and  slice  a  pint  of  onions,  fry  them  brown  in  the 
same  fat,  putting  a  few  into  the  fat  at  once,  and 
serve  them  on  the  bread. 

Stewed  String-Beans. — Remove  the  strings  from 
a  pint  of  beans,  cut  them  in  long  slivers,  wash  them 
in  cold  water,  and  boil  them  tender  in  boiling  water 
and  salt ;  drain  off  nearly  all  the  water,  season  them 
with  pepper,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  the 
yolk  of  one  raw  egg,  and  serve  them  at  once. 

Boiled  String-Beans. — String  one  quart  of  beans, 
break  them  in  inch-lengths,  wash  them  in  cold 
water;  and  put  them  over  the  fire  in  a  quart  of 
boiling  water,  with  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork 
sliced  ;  boil  until  the  beans  are  tender,  drain  oif  the 
water,  season  palatably  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve  hot. 

Green  Peas  Boiled. — If  the  shells  of  the  peas  are 
dirty  wash  them,  but  do  not  wash  the  peas  after  they 
are  shelled ;  put  them  into  boiling  water  enough 
to  cover  them  a  couple  of  inches,  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  for  each  quart  of  water,  and  three 
or  four  sprigs  of  green  mint,  and  boil  them  steadily 
until  they  are  just  tender;  then  if  they  are  to  be 


V 


VEGETABLES.  .59 

used  immediately  remove  the  mint,  drain  off  the 
water,  season  them  palatably  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter,  and  serve  them  at  once.  If  they  are  not  re- 
quired when  they  are  tender,  drain  from  them  the 
boiling  water,  remove  the  mint,  and  put  them  into 
cold  water  until  they  are  wanted  for  the  table ;  then 
pour  off  the  cold  water  and  quickly  heat  them  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Green  Peas  and  Bacon. — Prepare  the  peas  as  di- 
rected in  the  foregoing  recipe  ;  cut  for  each  quart 
of  peas  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  in  half-inch 
strips,  fry  it  brown  in  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan, 
put  the  peas  with  it,  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
just  cover  them,  and  boil  them  tender ;  season  them 
palatably  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  them  at 
once. 

They  may  also  be  cooked  by  boiling  them  with  a 
larger  single  piece  of  salt  pork. 

Stewed  Beets. — Wash  two  large  beets  without 
breaking  the  skin  or  cutting  off  the  roots  or  stalks  ; 
boil  them  for  an  hour  in  boiling  water ;  then  take 
them  up,  and  with  a  wet  cloth  rub  off  the  skin. 
Mix  together  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  until  they  bubble, 
then  stir  in  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar  ;  slice  the  beets  into  this 
sauce,  cook  them  slowly  for  an  hour  where  they  can- 
not burn,  and  then  serve  them  hot. 

Fried  Beets. — Boil  the  beets  as  directed  in  the 
preceding  recipe,  but  allow  them  to  boil  until  they 
are  tender  ;  then  remove  the  skin,  slice  them  half 
an  inch  thick,  roll  them  in  flour,  pepper,  and  salt, 


\ 


6o.  THE  PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK. 

and  fry  them  brown  in  smoking  hot  butter;  lay 
them  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar into  the  pan  in  which  they  were  fried,  let  it  boil 
once,  and  pour  it  over  the  beets  ;  serve  them  hot. 

Sugar  Beet  Pudding.^Grate  or  cut  in  half-inch 
pieces  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  beets  ;  add  to  them  six 
eggs  beaten  smooth,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  bake  these  ingredients  in 
an  earthen  dish  for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  the  pudding  hot  as  a  vegetable. 

Fried  Cauliflower. — Lay  the  cauliflower  root  up- 
wards in  plenty  of  cold,  salted  water  for  an  hour  to 
remove  the  insects  from  it ;  trim  off  the  leaves,  put 
it  into  a  large  saucepan  with  boiling  water  enough 
to  cover  it,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  it 
just  tender,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  too  soft ;  drain  off 
the  water  entirely  by  laying  it  on  a  sieve ;  dust  it 
on  the  blossom  surface  with  flour,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  fry  it  in  sufficient  smoking  hot  fat  to  quite 
cover  the  floured  part ;  serve  it  hot.  It  is  rather 
difficult  to  avoid  breaking  the  cauliflower,  and  a 
novice  in  cookery  will  best  succeed  with  this  dish  if 
she  cuts  the  cauliflower  in  branches  before  boiling  it, 
and  flours  the  pieces  all  over  before  frying  them. 
Fried  cauliflower  is  also  prepared  by  dipping  the 
branches  in  a  batter  made  as  directed  in  the  recipe 
for  Oyster  Fritters^  substituting  water  for  the  oyster 
liquor  in  mixing  the  batter,  and  then  frying  them 
like  the  fritters. 

Stewed  Cauliflower. — Boil  a  cauliflower  in  branch- 
es as  directed  in  the  previous  recipe  and  drain  it; 
mix  together  over  the  fire  a  tablespoonful  each  of 


VEGETABLES.  6 1 

butter  and  flour,  add  a  pint  of  water,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  quarter 
of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  stir  until  it  boils; 
heat  the  cauliflower  in  this  sauce  ;  then  stir  into  it  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  and  serve  it  at 
once. 

Spinach  on  Toast. — Make  three  slices  of  toast 
and  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish ;  put  two  quarts  of  spinach 
leaves,  washed  and  stripped  from  the  stems,  into  a 
frying-pan  containing  sufficient  hot  lard  to  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pan,  fry  it  quickly,  turning  it  over 
as  soon  as  that  next  the  pan  is  tender,  season  it 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  it  on  the  toast. 

Spinach  with  Gravy. — Prepare  the  spinach  as  di- 
rected in  the  preceding  recipe,  substituting  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  a  cupful  of  gravy  for  the 
lard ;  serve  it  hot. 

Stewed  Corn. — Into  a  pint  of  nicely  prepared 
brown  sauce  put  in  a  pint  of  sweet  corn  cut  from  the 
ear,  and  cook  it  slowly  for  half  an  hour.     Serve  it  hot. 

Brown  Sauce. — Make  a  brown  sauce  as  follows : 
Put  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  butter  and  flour,  and  stir  them  constantly 
until  they  are  light  brown,  then  stir  in  very  gradu- 
ally a  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  let  it  boil 
two  minutes,  and  use  it  hot. 

Boiled  Sweet  Corn. — Remove  the  husk,  except 
the  inner  layer,  from  short,  plump  ears  of  sweet 
corn ;  turn  this  layer  far  enough  to  permit  the  re- 
moval of  the  corn  silk,  then  replace  it,  and  tie  a 
short  string  around  it  to  hold  it  in  place ;  boil  the 
corn  in  boiling  water  without  salt  until  the  milk  is 


62  THE  PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

opaque  white — from  ten  to  twenty  minutes  ;  then 
remove  the  string,  and  husk,  cover  the  corn  with  a 
napkin,  and  serve  it  with  a  dish  of  melted  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt. 

Stewed  Corn  and  Tomatoes. — Stew  together  for 
half  an  hour  one  pint  of  corn  cut  from  the  ear,  one 
pint  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of 
pepper;  serve  hot  on  toast. 

Fried  Corn  and  Tomatoes. — Fry  in  separate  fry- 
ing-pans one  pint  each  of  cold  boiled  corn,  cut 
from  the  ear,  and  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced, 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  each,  and  a 
palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper ;  when  the 
tomatoes  are  done  put  them  in  the  middle  of  a  hot 
platter  with  the  fried  corn  around  them,  and  serve 
them  hot. 

Boiled  Squash. — Peel  a  winter  squash,  cut  it  in 
two-inch  squares,  boil  it  just  tender  in  salted  boil- 
ing water,  drain  it  and  serve  it  at  once  with  hot 
meat  gravy  poured  over  it.  If  no  gravy  is  on  hand 
use  instead  a  brown  sauce  made  as  directed  in  the 
recipe  for  Stewed  Corn.  Boiled  squash  is  also  rub- 
bed through  a  fine  sieve  with  a  potato  masher  and 
heated  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt;  this  is  the 
usual  method  of  cooking  summer  squash. 

Squash  Fritters. — Use  cold  boiled  squash  rubbed 
through  a  sieve ;  to  each  pint  add  one  egg  well 
beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a  palatable 
seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt ;  fry  by  the  tablespoon- 
ful  in  a  frying-pan  half  full  of  smoking  hot  lard  ; 
dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  hot  as  a  vege- 


VEGETABLES.  63 

table.  Cold  boiled  pumpkin  can  be  used  in  the 
same  way. 

Fried  Pumpkin. — Cut  tender  pumpkin  in  two- 
inch  pieces,  peel  them,  lay  them  for  an  hour  in  an 
earthen  dish  sprinkled  with  salt;  dust  them  with 
pepper,  roll  them  in  flour,  and  fry  them  in  plenty  of 
smoking  hot  fat.  Use  hot  as  a  vegetable ;  squash 
may  be  similarly  cooked. 

Fried  Egg-Plant.— Slice  the  egg-plant,  peel  it, 
and  dress  it  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe. 

Stewed  Egg-Plant. — Peel  an  egg-plant,  cut  it  in 
inch  squares,  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  and  let  it  stand 
an  hour ;  then  stew  it  gently  until  tender,  but  not 
broken,  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  serve  it 
hot  on  toast. 

Baked  Egg-Plant. — Peel  an  egg-plant  or  deeply 
score  the  skin,  rub  it  all  over  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  scoop  out  the  inside  to  within  half  an  inch  of 
the  surface  ;  mince  the  part  removed,  mix  it  with 
half  its  quantity  of  bread-crumbs  or  chopped  meat 
of  any  kind,  season  it  highly  with  salt  and  pepper, 
return  it  to  the  shell,  which  tie  together,  and  bake  it 
until  tender ;  remove  the  string,  and  serve  the  egg- 
plant hot. 

Stewed  Dried  Beans. — Pick  over  a  pint  of  beans, 
wash  them,  boil  them  tender,  putting  them  oyer  the 
fire  in  cold  water,  and  adding  half  a  cup  of  cold 
water  every  fifteen  minutes  until  they  are  done; 
then  drain  off  nearly  all  the  water,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  saltspoonfuls  of  salt,  quarter 
of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar  or  any  good  table  sauce. 

Beans  and  Bacon.— Boil  as  directed  in  the  pre- 


64  THE  PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK, 

vious  recipe  and  drain  quite  dry;  meantime  fry 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sliced  bacon,  lay  it  on  a  hot 
dish,  put  the  beans  into  the  frying-pan  where  the 
bacon  was  cooked,  fry  them  for  five  minutes  over  a 
hot  fire,  season  them  palatably  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve  them  with  the  fried  bacon. 

For  other  recipes  for  cooking  dried  beans  and 
peas  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  author's  pamphlet 
called  "  Twenty-five  Cent  Dinners,"  pages  38,  39, 
and  40. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

RICE. 

Boiled  Rice,  Georgia  Style.— There  are  several 
methods  of  boiling  rice,  from  which  two  are  selected 
as  giving  good  though  different  results  :  the  Georgia 
way,  which  gives  the  grains  dry  and  separate  after 
boiling,  was  learned  from  a  colored  cook  of  that 
State;  the  Chinese  method  was  imparted  to  the 
author  during  a  most  interesting  demonstration  of 
native  cookery  by  several  of  the  young  Chinese 
gentlemen  who  were  recently  students  at  Yale. 

To  boil  rice  in  the  Georgia  style  pick  it  over, 
wash  it  in  cold  v/ater,  put  it  into  three  times  its 
quantity  of  salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  steadily 
for  twelve  minutes,  without  stirring  it ;  then  drain 
off  all  the  water,  cover  the  vessel  containing  it,  and 
set  it  where  it  will  keep  hot  enough  to  steam  for  ten 
minutes ;  it  will  then  be  ready  to  serve.  Shake  it 
out  of  the  boiler  in  a  heap  on  the  dish,  but  do  not 
use  a  spoon  to  remove  it,  and  do  not  press  it  in 
shape ;  serve  it  as  it  is  thrown  lightly  on  the  dish. 

Boiled  Rice,  Chinese  Style,— Pick  the  rice  over, 
wash  it  well  in  cold  water,  put  it  over  the  fire  in  suffi- 
cient cold  water  to  rise  an  inch  and  a  half  above  the 
top  of  the  rice,  and  set  the  saucepan  where  its  con- 
tents will  slowly  reach  the  boiling  point ;  a  little 
salt  may  be  dusted  over  the  rice  if  desired  ;  be  sure 
that  the  rice  boils  very  slowly  ;  the  water  will  be 


66  THE  PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK. 

partly  absorbed  by  the  rice  and  partly  evaporated, 
as  the  vessel  in  which  it  is  cooked  is  not  covered ; 
when  it  is  tender  it  is  served  in  bowls  as  an  accom- 
paniment to  other  dishes,  being  eaten  as  we  eat 
bread ;  while  the  grains  are  distinct  they  are  slightly 
adhesive,  and  can  easily  be  eaten  with  the  chop- 
sticks which  replace  our  forks. 

Rice  and  Lamb,  Arabian  Style. — The  inhabitants 
of  the  Mediteranean  countries  excel  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  rice,  and  therefore  a  number  of  their  dishes 
will  be  given  here,  as  they  are  not  expensive  and 
not  difficult  to  prepare,  while  they  afford  a  welcome 
variety  at  table. 

Boil  about  three  pounds  of  lamb,  exclusive  of  the 
weight  of  the  bones,  in  boiling  water  with  a  little 
salt,  until  it  is  tender ;  take  it  from  the  broth,  put  in 
its  place  a  quart  of  rice,  or  a  pint  each  of  rice  and 
soaked  chick  peas  (large  yellow  dried  peas),  and 
half  a  cup  of  raisins,  and  boil  all  together  until  the 
rice  and  peas  are  tender.  Meantime  cut  the  flesh 
of  the  lamb  in  pieces  an  inch  square  and  fry  them 
light  brown  in  hot  butter ;  when  the  rice  is  done 
drain  off  nearly  all  the  broth  ;  mix  the  meat  with  it, 
highly  season  the  dish,  which  is  called  alcuzens,  and 
serve  it  hot. 

Turkish  Pilaff  of  Rice  and  Meat. — This  dish  is 
made  of  rice  and  lamb  or  fowl  (sometimes  both  be- 
ing used),  raisins  and  a  little  saffron,  or  curry  and 
fried  onion,  or  with  rice  and  tomatoes,  first  fritd 
and  then  stewed  tender  in  broth.  A  good  pilaff  can 
be  made  as  follows,  using  cold  beef,  lamb,  mutton, 
or  fowl:  pick  over  a  pint  of  rice,  wash  it  in  cold 
water,  drain  it  in  a  sieve  and  set  it  near  the  fire  to 


RICE.  67 

dry;  meantime  cut  a  pound  of  cold  meat  in  pieces 
an  inch  square,  fry  it  brown  in  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  hot  butter,  and  take  it  from  the  butter  with  a 
skimmer ;  put  the  rice  into  the  same  butter  and  fry 
it  light  brown  ;  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  pint  of 
tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  the  fried  meat,  and  a 
palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper;  let  the  pilaff 
stew  gently  until  the  rice  is  tender ;  if  it  seems  dry 
enough  to  burn  after  it  has  been  cooking  a  while 
add  very  little  boiling  water,  remembering  that  the 
pilaff  when  done  should  be  just  moist  but  not  too 
full  of  gravy;  serve  it  hot. 

Rice  and  Sausage,  Italian  Style. — Prick  all  over 
a  pound  of  fresh  sausages,  and  fry  them  brown ; 
take  them  up,  and  in  their  drippings  fry  a  pint  of 
rice,  washed  and  dried,  and  one  onion  peeled  and 
sliced ;  when  the  rice  is  brown  add  the  fried  sausage, 
and  boiling  water  enough  to  keep  the  rice  from 
burning ;  season  it  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
cook  it  slowly  until  it  is  tender;  serve  it  hot. 

Rice  Stew. — Peel,  slice,  and'  fry  six  onions  with 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  drippings  ;  put  with  them  a 
pint  of  rice  washed  and  dried,  two  herrings  freed 
from  skin  and  bone,  and  boiling  water  enough  to 
cover  all ;  season  the  stew  highly  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, replenish  the  water  as  it  boils  away,  but  do  not 
add  too  much,  as  the  stew  should  be  only  moist 
when  done ;  serve  as  soon  as  the  rice  is  tender. 

Other  recipes  for  cooking  rice  are  to  be  found  in 
the  author's  different  works,  as  well  as  a  good  variety 
of  methods  for  cooking  macaroni,  a  food  now  be- 
coming well  known  in  Araerica, 


CHAPTER   IX. 

BREAD. 

Home-made  Bread. — Two  methods  are  given,  with 
personal  preference  for  the  second,  because  it  is  the 
quickest,  and  best  preserves  the  nutriment  of  the 
flour. 

To  make  yeast,  boil  two  ounces  of  hops  in  two 
quarts  of  water  for  half  an  hour;  strain  the  liquid, 
and  cool  it  until  it  is  only  lukewarm,  then  add  half 
a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
and  one  pound  of  flour  ;  let  this  leaven  ferment 
four  days  in  a  warm  place,  stirring  it  whenever  it 
foams  over  the  top  of  the  jar  in  which  it  is  placed ; 
on  the  third  day  add  to  it  three  pounds  of  potatoes 
boiled  and  mashed ;  on  the  fourth  day  strain  and 
bottle  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

To  make  bread,  put  seven  pounds  of  flour  in  a 
deep  wooden  bowl ;  in  the  centre  of  it  put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  gill  of 
yeast,  and  sufficient  lukewarm  water  to  make  a  soft 
dough  (about  three  pints);  mix  these  ingredients 
with  the  hands  until  they  form  a  smooth,  shining 
dough ;  if  necessary  use  a  little  extra  flour,  only 
enough  to  facilitate  the  working  of  the  dough  ;  flour 
the  bowl  on  the  bottom  and  sides,  so  that  the  bread 
will  not  stick  to  it,  cover  it  with  a  thick  towel  folded 
several  times,  set  it  in  a  warm  place  protected  from 
draughts,  and  let  it  rise  ov^r  night.     In  the  morn- 


BREAD.  69" 

ing  knead  the  dough  fifteen  minutes,  divide  it  into 
four  loaves,  put  them  in  floured  baking-pans,  cover 
them  with  a  folded  towel,  and  set  them  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  twice  their  height ;  when  they  are  so 
risen  prick  them  at  the  sides  with  a  fork  and  bake 
them  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  knitting  or  truss- 
ing needle  can  be  run  into  them  without  being 
made  sticky.  Be  sure  that  they  are  well  done,  but 
do  not  let  them  burn. 

To  test  the  heat  of  the  oven  follow  the  method 
of  Jules  Gouffe,  the  celebrated  chef  of  the  Paris 
Jockey  Club  ;  the  "  moderate  oven"  temperature  is 
that  degree  of  heat  which  will  turn  ordinary  writing 
paper  dark  yellow  or  buff,  that  is,  the  color  of 
kindling-wood  ;  put  a  sheet  of  paper  into  the  oven 
and  close  the  door,  if  the  paper  blazes  the  oven  is 
too  hot;  arrange  the  dampers  to  lower  the  heat  for 
ten  minutes,  then  again  test  it  with  more  paper ; 
it  may  be  necessary  to  try  the  temperature  several 
times,  but  the  time  thus  used  is  well  spent. 

Compressed  Yeast  Bread. — When  it^is  possible  to 
obtain  fresh  compressed  yeast,  also  called  German 
yeast,  an  excellent  bread  can  be  made  in  about  two 
hours  and  a  half;  the  rapidity  of  the  leavening  or 
"raising"  the  dough  is  advantageous  because  less 
of  the  nutritive  elements  of  the  flour  are  lost  than 
by  following  the  long  process;  for  two  loaves  of 
bread  use  three  pounds  of  flour,  about  a  quart  of 
water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  an  ounce  of 
fresh  compressed  yeast ;  dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  pint  of 
lukewarm  water ;  stir  into  it  sufficient  flour  to  make 
a  thick  batter  ;  cover  the  bowl  containing  the  batter, 
or  sponge,  with  a  folded  towel,  and  set  it  in  a  warm 


70  THE   PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

place  to  rise ;  if  properly  covered  and  heated  it 
will  rise  to  a  light  foam  in  about  half  an  hour ;  then 
stir  into  it  the  salt  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water, 
add  the  rest  of  the  flour,  and  sufficient  lukewarm 
water  to  make  a  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  knead ; 
knead  it  five  minutes,  divide  it  into  two  loaves,  put 
them  in  floured  baking-pans,  cover  them  with  a  folded 
towel,  and  set  them  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  twice 
their  height ;  then  bake  them  as  directed  in  the 
preceding  recipe. 

In  raising  the  sponge  be  sure  that  the  heat  is  not 
sufficient  to  "  scald"  or  harden  it,  as  that  will  pre- 
vent fermentation ;  therefore  do  not  place  it  where 
the  hand  cannot  be  held  with  comfort ;  keep  it  cov- 
ered from  draughts.  If  when  it  is  light  it  has  be- 
come at  all  soured,  as  it  sometimes  will  in  summer, 
stir  into  it,  before  adding  the  balance  of  the  flour, 
a  saltspoonful  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a  very 
little  water. 

The  dough  made  for  home-made  bread  can  be 
baked  as  raised  biscuit  by  kneading  in  with  it  a 
little  sugar  and  melted  butter,  or  it  can  be  boiled  in 
soups  and  stews  as  raised  dumplings. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit.— Use  any  good  baking- 
powder  ;  for  a  dozen  biscuits  sift  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  the  powder  and  one  of  salt,  with  a  quart  of  flour ; 
rub  into  the  flour  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or 
butter;  flour  a  baking-pan  and  pastry-board  and 
roller ;  quickly  stir  into  the  flour  sufficient  cold 
water  or  milk  to  make  a  dough  just  soft  enough  to 
roll  out;  turn  it  upon  the  pastry-board,  roll  it  an 
inch  thick,  cut  it  in  rounds  v/ith  a  floured  biscuit- 
cutter,  put  them  into  the  baking-pan,  brush  them 


BREAD.  71 

over  with  cold  milk,  and  bake  them  at  once  in  a 
quick  oven.  Remember  that  to  be  successful  in  us- 
ing baking-powder  it  is  absolutely  necessary  to  work 
rapidly;  the  moment  the  powder  is  wet  it  begins  to 
generate  carbonic  acid  gas,  and  this  forcing  its  way 
up  through  the  dough  lightens  it ;  if  the  gas  escapes 
before  the  dough  is  baked  the  biscuits  will  not  be 
light. 

Maryland  Biscuit. — Rub  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
lard  into  one  quart  of  sifted  flour;  add  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sufficient  milk  to  make  a 
rather  stiff  dough,  working  the  milk  into  the  flour 
with  the  hand  ;  put  the  dough  upon  a  floured  pastry- 
board,*  and  beat  it  with  the  rolling-pin,  folding  it  as 
it  is  flattened,  until  it  blisters  and  cracks ;  then  tear 
ofl"  pieces  the  size  of  an  egg,  roll  them  round  in  the 
hands,  prick  them  with  a  fork  on  the  top,  and  bake 
them  in  a  moderate  oven. 

The  beating  will  usually  occupy  half  an  hour. 
In  the  South  a  machine  is  used,  consisting  of  a  cor- 
rugated wooden  roller,  set  half  an  inch  from  the 
bottom  of  an  open  wooden  box,  and  turned  with  a 
crank  set  outside  the  box ;  the  dough  is  repeatedly 
passed  under  this  roller  until  it  is  ready  to  bake. 

Graham  Gems.— Real  Graham  Gems  are  made  by 
mixing  graham  flour  and  water  to  a  thick  batter, 
with  a  little  salt,  and  then  beating  the  batter  until 
it  is  full  of  little  bubbles  of  air;  it  is  then  put  into 
hot  buttered  gem-pans,  and  quickly  baked  in  a  hot 
oven.  Graham  biscuit  may  be  made  with  baking- 
powder  if  desired  ;  proceed  as  for  baking-powder 
biscuit,  using  graham  flour  instead  of  wheat. 

Brown   Bread, — Mix   together   three  cupfuls   of 


72  THE  PEOPLES   COOK-BOOK. 

rye  meal,  two  of  yellow  Indian  meal,  one  of  molasses, 
and  one  quart  of  sour  milk  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  -two  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  it ;  put 
the  bread  into  a  buttered  tin  mould,  Avith  a  close 
cover,  steam  it  for  two  and  a  half  hours,  and  then 
bake  it  uncovered  for  half  an  hour. 

Raised  Brown  Bread. — Put  one  quart  of  yellow  In- 
dian meal  into  an  earthen  bowl,  pour  over  it  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  entirely  moisten  it,  and  let  it  cool 
to  blood  heat ;  when  it  is  cool  mix  with  it  one 
quart  of  rye  meal,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cup- 
ful of  home-made  yeast  or  half  a  cupful  of  baker's 
yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  dissolved  in  a  little 
water,  and  sufficient  lukewarm  water  to  mak^  a  soft 
paste  ;  after  thoroughly  mixing  these  ingredients  put 
the  dough  into  a  buttered  earthen  or  thick  iron  pan, 
smooth  it  on  top  with  a  wooden  spoon  wet  in  cold 
water,  cover  it  with  a  folded  towel,  and  set  it  in  a 
moderately  warm  place  to  rise ;  when  the  surface 
begins  to  crack  open  put  it  into  a  moderate  oven, 
with  another  pan  turned  over  it,  for  four  hours ; 
or  steam  it  five  hours,  and  then  dry  the  crust  in  the 
oven. 


CHAPTER  X. 

SIMPLE     D  ESSERTS. 

Deep  Apple  Pie. — To  make  plain  pastry  mix  to- 
gether lightly  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard  or  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pound  of  flour,  and  sufficient 
cold  water  to  make  a  paste  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 
One  way  of  mixing  is  to  put  these  ingredients  into 
a  chopping  tray,  and  chop  them  together  with  a  large 
knife ;  another  is  to  make  a  paste  stiff  enough  to 
roll  of  the  flour,  salt,  and  water,  roll  it  half  an  inch 
thick,  spread  quarter  of  the  shortening  over  it,  fold 
it  and  roll  it  out  again,  and  use  another  quarter  of 
the  shortening,  repeating  this  process  until  all  is 
nsed  ;  the  pastry  is  then  ready  for  the  making  of 
pies. 

For  a  deep  apple  pie,  pare  and  slice  tart  apples 
enough  to  fill  a  deep  earthen  baking  dish  heaping 
full ;  line  the  edges  of  the  dish  an  inch  down  with  a 
strip  of  pastry ;  put  in  the  apples,  sweeten  them  to 
taste,  and  flavor  the  pie  with  a  little  grated  lemon 
rind,  or  a  little  ground  cinnamon ;  cover  the  top 
with  pastry  wet  at  the  edges  with  cold  water  to 
make  it  adhere  to  the  strips  on  the  sides  of  the  dish  ; 
cut  small  holes  in  the  top  crust,  brush  it  over  with 
beaten  egg,  or  with  a  little  sugar  dissolved  in  water, 
and  bake  it  until  the  apples  are  done  in  a  moderate 
oven.  For  a  test  for  the  proper  heat  of  the  oven  re- 
fer to  the  recipe  for  Home-made  Bread. 


74  THE  PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK. 

Pan-dowdy. — Wash  a  quart  of  dried  apples,  soak 
them  over  night  in  cold  water,  stew  them  soft  in  the 
same  water  with  sugar  and  spice  to  make  them  palat- 
able ;  put  the  apple  sauce  thus  made  into  an  earthen 
baking  dish  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
cover  it  with  pastry  made  as  directed  in  the  recipe 
for  Deep  Apple  Fie  ;  bake  the  dowdy  until  the  crust 
is  done;  then  remove  it  from  the  oven,  and  break 
the  crust  down  into  the  apple  with  a  spoon ;  use  it 
hot  or  cold. 

Apple  sauce  made  from  green  or  ripe  apples  can 
be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Fried  Apples. — Pare  sound  apples,  slice  them  half 
an  inch  thick,  remove  the  cores  without  breaking 
the  slices,  fry  them  in  hot  butter  until  tender,  lay 
them  in  little  piles  with  sugar  and  spice  dusted  over 
them,  and  serve  them  on  slices  of  toast. 

Apple  Toast. — Pare  and  core  tart  apples  without 
breaking  them ;  put  them  on  slices  of  stale  bread, 
fill  them  with  sugar,  put  a  little  butter  and  spice  on 
each  one,  and  bake  them  tender  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Apple  and  Bread  Pudding. — Soak  a  quart  of  stale 
bread  in  cold  water  five  minutes ;  pour  off  as  much 
water  as  will  escape  without  squeezing,  and  put 
the  bread  in  a  buttered  baking  dish ;  pare  and  slice 
a  quart  of  apples,  lay  them  on  the  bread,  add  sugar 
and  spice  to  taste,  and  bake  the  pudding  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Racket  Club  Pudding. — Butter  slices  of  stale 
bread,  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  a  two-quart 
baking  dish ;  put  a  layer  of  raisins  on  the  bread ; 
add  another  layer  of  bread,  pour  over  it  a  custard 
made  of  four  eggs  beaten  with  four  tablespoonfuls 


SIMPLE  DESSERTS,  75 

of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  milk ;  pare,  quarter,  and  core 
a  quart  of  apples,  lay  them  on  the  pudding,  dust 
them  with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake  the  pudding 
half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  it  hot  with 
powdered  sugar,  or  jelly  sauce. 

Jelly  Pudding  Sauce. — Mix  together  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch  or  arrow  root,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  jelly,  four  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  cold 
water ;  put  the  sauce  over  the  fire  and  stir  it  until 
it  boils  one  minute;  then  use  it. 

Cheese  Crusts. — Cut  some  slices  of  stale  bread 
two  inches  square  and  half  an  inch  thick,  butter 
them,  lay  them  on  a  baking-pan,  put  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  grated  cheese  on  each,  and  brown  them  in  a 
quick  oven  ;  serve  them  hot  or  cold. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Peel  and  slice  a  pumpkin,  or  part 
of  one,  boil  it  in  boiling  water  until  it  is  tender 
enough  to  rub  through  a  sieve  with  a  potato-mash- 
er; mix  with  each  quart  a  custard  made  of  six  eggs 
beaten  with  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a 
quart  of  milk  ;  flavor  the  mixture  with  spice  and 
grated  lemon  rind,  and  bake  it  in  deep  earthen  pie 
plates  lined  with  plain  pastry.  Squash  pie  is  made 
in  the  same  way. 

Plain  Mince  Pie. — Chop  fine  half  a  pound  of  cold 
boiled  beef  or  cold  boiled  tongue  ;  remove  the  fibre 
from  half  a  pound  of  suet  and  chop  that  fine;  stone 
half  a  pound  of  raisins,  cutting  them  in  halves ;  pick 
over  and  wash  half  a  pound  of  currants  ;  slice  thin 
two  ounces  of  citron ;  pare,  core,  and  chop  a  pound 
of  apples ;  grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  an 
orange  and  a  lemon,  if  they  are  available  ;  mix  all 
these  ingredients  in  a  glass   or   earthen   jar  with 


76  THE  PEOPLES  COOK-BOOK. 

enough  sweet  cider  to  moisten  them,  sufficient 
sugar  to  sweeten  them  palatably,  salt  enough  to  be 
just  perceptible,  and  plenty  of  mixed  ground 
spices ;  last  of  all  add  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good 
brandy  for  the  purpose  of  preserving  the  mince- 
meat. Pack  it  down  tight  in  the  jar,  and  keep  it 
closely  covered  two  or  three  weeks  before  using  it. 
When  brandy  is  not  used  the  mince-meat  should 
not  be  kept  long.  In  making  pastry  for  mince  pies 
use  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  short- 
ening to  a  pound  of  flour.  If  mince-meat  has  be- 
come dry  by  long  keeping  moisten  it  with  cider  be- 
fore using  it. 


CHAPTER   XL 

COOKERY    FOR    INVALIDS 

The  preparation  of  food  for  invalids  and  conva- 
lescents is  one  of  the  most  difficult  tasks  which  is 
ever  imposed  upon  the  ordinary  cook.  The  physi- 
cian generally  outlines  the  diet,  but  leaves  the  de- 
tails of  cooking  to  the  nurse  or  cook,  who  may  not 
always  know  how  to  make  the  simple  and  nutritious 
dishes  required.  To  meet  such  an  emergency  a  few- 
recipes  are  given  here  which  were  included  in  the 
author's  lessons  before  the  New  York  State  Train- 
ing School  for  Nurses  last  May.  The  balance  of 
the  lessons,  together  with  those  given  at  the  Nurses' 
Training  School  of  the  New  York  Charity  Hospital 
last  winter,  will  be  included  in  a  volume  on  Diet 
for  Invalids  which  will  shortly  be  published  by  the 
author. 

Milk  Porridge.— Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
smoothly  with  half  a  cupful  of  cold  milk  ;  place  a 
cupful  and  a  half  of  milk  over  the  fire  in  a  sauce- 
pan rinsed  with  cold  water,  but  not  wiped ;  stir  in 
the  flour  and  milk,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and,  if  de- 
sired, sugar  and  nutmeg  to  suit  the  palate  of  the 
patient;  stir  the  porridge  constantly  until  it  reaches 
the  boiling  point,  then  let  it  boil  for  one  minute, 
taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn,  and  serve  it.  A 
tablespoonful  of  raisins  boiled  and  served  with  it 


78  THE   PEOPLE'S   COOK-BOOK. 

enhances  its  nutriment,  if  the  physician  will  permit 
their  use. 

Arrowroot  Gruel. — Make  this  in  the  same  way  as 
the  Milk  Porridge,  substituting  water  for  the  milk  ; 
do  not  use  the  raisins. 

Indian  Meal  GrueL — Mix  one  tablespoonful  of 
Indian  meal  with  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water ;  stir 
it  into  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  boiling  water,  with  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  it  half  an  hour,  stir- 
ring it  occasionally  to  prevent  burning. 

Beef  Tea. — Chop  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  from 
the  round,  very  fine ;  soak  it  for  at  least  an  hour  in 
one  pint  of  cold  water ;  if  there  is  time,  let  it  soak 
two  hours ;  put  it  over  the  fire  in  the  same  water, 
and  let  it  slowly  reach  the  boiling  point;  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  which  will  retain  only  the  bits  of 
meat  and  allow  the  coagulated  albumen  to  pass 
through ;  a  little  seasoning  may  be  added  if  the 
physician  permits.  If  the  cooking  of  the  beef  tea 
is  checked  at  140°  Fahr.,  its  albumen  will  be  per- 
fectly soluble,  and  therefore  more  digestible  for 
very  weak  invalids. 

Beef  Juice. — Slice  juicy  lean  beef,  from  the  round, 
an  inch  thick ;  broil  it  quickly  over  a  very  hot  fire, 
but  without  burning,  until  it  is  brown  on  both  sides ; 
lay  it  in  a  hot  soup  plate,  cut  it  through  in  all  parts 
with  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  set  another  hot  plate 
on  it,  with  the  bottom  against  the  meat ;  then  grasp 
both  plates  firmly  and  press  them  together,  squeez- 
ing the  juice  from  the  meat ;  let  it  run  into  another 
dish,  or  upon  a  slice  of  delicate  toast,  and  serve  it 
at  once;  the  physician  will  indicate  the  seasoning. 

Toast. — To   prepare   toast   suitable  for   invalids 


COOKERY  FOR   INVALIDS.  79 

cut  stale  bread  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and 
trim  off  the  crust ;  then  hold  it  far  enough  away 
from  the  fire  to  dry  it  before  browning  it ;  it  should 
be  of  a  delicate  brown  color  and  quite  dry  in  the 
middle  of  the  slice  ;  in  this  condition  it  is  more 
easily  digested  than  when  made  so  quickly  that  the 
moisture  of  the  bread  remains  in  it. 

Broiled  Birds. — Carefully  pluck  and  singe  the 
birds,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet,  or  if  the  head  re- 
mains be  sure  that  no  feathers  are  left  on  it ;  remove 
the  crop  and  windpipe,  and  wipe  the  birds  on  a  wet 
towel ;  split  them  down  the  back,  take  out  the  en- 
trails without  breaking  them  ;  lay  the  birds,  with- 
out washing,  between  the  bars  of  a  buttered  wire 
gridiron,  and  brown  the  inside  first  over  a  quick 
fire ;  then  turn  the  outside  towards  the  fire  and 
brown  that,  but  be  careful  to  avoid  burning ;  the 
birds  may  be  cooked  rare  or  well  done,  as  the  phy- 
sician permits,  and  slightly  seasoned.  Toast  is 
usually  served  under  them. 

Sago  and  Wine. — Wash  an  ounce  of  sago  in  cold 
water ;  put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  pint  of  cold  water, 
let  it  slowly  approach  the  boiling  point,  and  boil  it 
gently  until  tender;  then  stir  into  it  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  glass  of  Madeira  or  sherry 
wine,  and  serve  it  hot  or  cold. 

Wine  Jelly. — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  isinglass  or 
gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  hot  water ;  add  one  ounce 
of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  wine,  and  cool  the  jelly  in 
a  mould. 

Barley  Water. — Wash  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley 
in  plenty  of  cold  water  until  the  water  is  clear;  put 
it  over  the  fire  with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  let 


8o  THE  PEOPLE'S  COOK-BOOK. 

it  slowly  approach  the  boiling  point,  and  boil  five 
minutes  ;  then  strain  it,  put  it  again  over  the  fire  in 
two  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  boil  it  until  the 
water  is  reduced  one  half;  then  strain  and  cool  it; 
it  may  be  sweetened  and  flavored,  if  desirable,  ac- 
cording to  the  physician's  direction. 

Egg  and  Wine. — Beat  one  egg  to  a  froth  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar ;  then  beat  in  one  glass 
of  wine,  and  use  at  once. 

Milk  Punch. — For  hot  punch  mix  together  quar- 
ter of  a  glass  of  brandy,  rum,  or  whiskey,  with  three 
quarters  of  a  glass  of  hot  milk ;  add  sugar  and 
nutmeg  to  make  the  punch  palatable.  For  cold 
punch  use  the  same  proportion  of  liquor,  but  fill 
the  glass  with  shaved  or  finely  cracked  ice,  with 
spice  and  sugar  to  taste. 


THE    END 


INDEX 


SOUPS. 
Bean,  ii. 
Brown,  12. 
Brown  onion,  14. 
Clam,  cream,  10. 
Clam,  rich,  10. 
Cock-a-leeky,  13. 
Cod,  cream,  9. 
Herb,  14. 
Oyster,  10. 
Potato,  13. 
Poultry.  II. 
Pumpkin,  14. 

FISH. 

Clams,  see  Shellfish. 

Cod,  fricassee  of  fresh,  16. 
' '    salt,  with  Dutch  Sauce,  19. 
"       *'     Lyonnaise  style,  18, 
"       "     Spanish  "       19. 

Eels     ragoitt  of,  with  onions, 
16. 

Fish-roe,  with  potatoes,  18. 

Haddock,    fresh,     fried,    with 
pickle  sauce,  17. 

Haddock,  smoked,  devilled, 20. 

Halibut,  fresh,    broiled,    with 
caper  butter,  17. 

Halibut,  smoked,  with  toma- 
toes, 20. 

Herrings,  stewed,  with  toma- 
toes, 20. 


Lobsters,  see  Shellfish. 
Mackerel,  salt,  broiled,  20. 
Mussels,  see  Shellfish. 
Oysters,  see  Shellfish. 
Scallops,  see  Shellfish. 

SHELLFISH. 

Clams,  in  chowder,  24. 
*'         "  fritters,  24. 
"         "  soup,  cream,  10. 
"         "      "      rich,  10. 
"        stewed,  24. 
Lobsters,  boiled,  26. 

"  broiled,  27. 

"  scalloped,  26. 

"         stewed,  26. 
Mussels,  pickled,  25. 

"         stewed,  25. 
Oysters,  broiled,  23. 

"        fried,  22. 

"        in  fritters,  22. 

"        panned,  21. 

"        roast,  21. 

*'        toast,  22, 
Scallops  and  eggs,  23. 

"  "     onions,  23. 

"         fried,  23, 

RELISHES   AND   SAUCES. 

Butter,  caper,  17. 

clarified,  30. 
Egg  salad,  hot,  30. 


82 


INDEX, 


Garlic,  47. 

Mackerel  and  onions,  29. 

Meats,  potted,  29. 

Potted  fish,  game, and  poultry, 

29. 
Poultry  and  game  sandwiches, 

28. 
Salmagundi,  29. 
Salmon  sandwiches,  28. 
Sauce,  brown,  6t. 
Dutch,  19. 

'^       horseradish,  46. 

"       jelly,  75. 

**       white,  50, 

Welsh  rarebits,  28. 

EGGS. 

Eggs  baked  with  cheese,  31. 
"  Ardennes  style,  31, 
"      with  burnt  butter,  31. 
"      fried,  with  pickles,  32. 
'•      in  hot  salad,  30. 
"  in  omelette,  with  crusts, 32. 
"      in    omelette    with    on- 
ions, 32. 

POULTRY    AND    BIRDS. 

Birds,  broiled,  79. 

"       small,  in  ragoiit,  41. 
Chicken,  with  green  peas,  41. 
"  "     sweet  corn,  41. 

"     fried,  with  hominy,  40. 
"  ~  roast,  39. 
Duck,     braised,     with    green 

peas,  37. 
Duck,  devilled,  36. 

roast,  with  onion  stuff- 
ing, 36. 
Duck,  stewed  with  cabbage, 
37- 


Fowl,  braised  with  vegetables, 

39. 

Fowl,  stewed  whole,  40. 

Goose  and  onions,  38. 
"      giblet  stew,  38. 
"       roast,  with  apple  stuff- 
ing, 37- 

Roast  poultry,  33. 

Turkey,  devilled,  36. 

"         roast,      with     oyster 
stuflling,  35. 

Turkey,  stew,  with  chestnuts, 
35. 


Boiling  meats,  44. 
,  Broiling  meats,  44. 
I  Frying  meats,  45. 
1  Roasting  meats,  43. 
I  Stewing  meats,  44. 
Warming  cold  meats,  45. 
Beef,  braised,  46. 
"      cold,  with  vegetables, 47. 
"      roast,   with   horseradish 
I      sauce,  45. 

j  Beef,  corned,  boiled,  50. 
I      "      stew,  of  tough,  46. 
I  Ham,  boiled,  51. 
!  Liver,  baked  with  bacon   and 

potatoes,  53. 
I  Liver,  broiled  with  bacon,  52. 
I  Mutton,  breast  of,  fried,  47. 
"         Irish  stew,  48. 
"         leg  of,  roasted,  47. 
"         persillade,  48. 
Pork,    fresh,    chops,    Spanish 

style,  51. 
Pork, fresh,  Philadelphia  scrap- 
ple, 52. 
Pork,  fresh,  roast,  51. 


INDEX. 


83 


Pork,  salt,  boiled  with  greens, 

51. 
Pork,  sausage,  baked  with  ap- 
ples, 53. 
Pork,    sausage,    stewed    with 

rice,  67. 
Pork,  tenderloins,  broiled,  52. 

"  "  fried,  52. 

"  "  roasted,  52. 

Tongue,  boiled,  50. 

'*         pickled,  ro^^z^/ of,  53. 
Veal,    breast   of,    baked   with 

tomatoes,  49. 
Veal,  breast  of,  braised   with 

potatoes,  49. 
Veal,  stewed  a  la  mode,  49. 
Veal,  stewed  with  brown  sauce, 

50. 

VEGETABLES. 

Beans,  dried,  and  bacon,  63. 
"  "       stewed,  63. 

"       string,  boiled,  58. 
"  "        stewed,  58. 

Beets,  fried,  59. 
!'       stewed,  59. 

sugar,  pudding  of,  60. 
Cabbage  and  onions,  57. 

fried,     with     cream, 

57- 
Carrots,  Flemish  style,  56. 
fried,  57. 
stewed,  56. 
Cauliflower,  fried,  60. 

•'  stewed,  60. 

Corn,  green,  boiled,  61. 

"  "       fried  with  toma- 

toes, 62. 
Corn,      green,      stewed    with 
brown  sauce,  61. 


Corn,   green,  stewed  with  to- 
matoes, 62. 
Egg  plant,  baked;  63. 
fried,  63. 
"  stewed,  63. 

Onions  and  eels,  16. 
"       and  scallops,  23. 
"       fried,  with  bread,  58. 

glazed,  58. 
"       stewed  with  gravy,  58. 
Peas,  green,  boiled,  58. 

"  *'       with  bacon,  59. 

Potatoes,  baked,  55. 
"  boiled,  54. 

fried  with  bacon,  55. 
"  fried  with  cream,  56. 

"  fried  with  onions,  55. 

"  in  balls,  56. 

"  larded,  55. 

"  stuffed  sweet,  55. 

**  with  fish-roe,  18. 

'*  with  veal,  50. 

Pumpkin,  fried,  63. 

"  fritters,  62. 

Spinach,  on  toast,  61. 

"         with  gravy,  61. 
Squash,  boiled,  62. 
fritters,  62. 
"        summer,  62. 
Tomatoes,  with  corn,  fried,  62. 
with  corn,  stewed, 62. 
with  halibut,  20. 
Vv^ith  herring,  20. 
with  veal,  49. 
Turnips,  glazed,  57. 
stewed,  57. 

RICE   AND    HOMINY. 

Rice  and  lamb,  Arabian  style, 
66. 


84 


INDEX, 


Rice     and     sausage,     Italian 

style,  67. 
Rice,  boiled,  Chinese  style,  65. 
'*      Georgia  style,  65, 
"      stew,  67. 
"      Turkish  pilaff  of,  66. 
Hominy,  boiled,  40, 
"  fried,  40. 


Bread,  brown,  71. 

raised,  72. 
"       compressed  yeast,  69. 
"       home-made,  68. 
Breading,  48. 
Biscuit,  baking  powder,  70, 

"        Maryland,  71. 
Graham  gems,  71. 

PIES    AND    PUDDINGS. 

Apple  and  bread  pudding,  74. 
"      fried,  74. 


Apple  pan-dowdy,  74. 

pie,  deep,  73. 

toast,  74. 
Cheese  crusts,  75. 
Jelly  pudding  sauce,  75. 
Mince  pie,  plain,  75. 
Pumpkin  pie,  75. 
Racket  Club  pudding,  74. 

DISHES    FOR   INVALIDS. 

Arrowroot  gruel,  78. 
Barley  water,  79. 
Beef  juice,  78. 

"     tea,  78. 
Birds,  broiled,  79. 
Egg  and  wine,  80. 
Indian  meal  gruel.  78. 
Milk  porridge,  77. 

"     punch,  80. 
Sago  and  wine,  79. 
Toast,  78. 
Wine  jelly.  79. 


MISS   CORSON'S 

Works  on  Domestic  Economy. 


These  books,  which  have  received  the  fullest  indorse- 
ment from  the  press  and  the  public,  will  be  sent  by  mail  on 
receipt  of  price.  Postage  stamps  may  be  sent  instead  of 
money. 

"  The  Cooking  School  Text-Book  and  House-     ^^^^ 

keeper's  Guide/'         .        .        .        .        $1.25 

**  The  Cooking  Manual  for  Everyday  Use/'         50 

"  Twenty-five    Cent    Dinners   for    Families 

of  Six/' 25 

'' Meals  for  the  Million/'         .        .  20  and  30 

Persons  ordering  books  to  be  sent  by  mail  are  advised  to 
send  ten  cents  more  than  price  for  registration  fee  at  post 
office.  Postage  stamps  received  in  payment  for  books.  Ad- 
dress 

MISS  JULIET  CORSON, 

Superintendent  of  the  N.   Y.  School  of  Cookery. 
NEW   YORK   CITY. 


MISS    CORSON'S 

NEW  YORK  SCHOOL  OF  COOKERY, 

Established  1876. 

The  necessity  for  establishing  similar  schools  of  cookery 
is  felt  all  over  the  country  ;  and,  in  response  to  continued 
demands  for  Miss  Corson's  personal  aid  in  organizing  these 
schools  throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada,  her  New 
York  school  is  open  only  during  the  winter,  and  she  has,  since 
1878,  devoted  the  spring  and  autumn  to  giving  instruction 
elsewhere,  the  first  lessons  having  been  given  in  Montreal,  Ca. 
Since  then  Miss  Corson  has  given  lessons  at  Washington, 
Chicago,  Cleveland,  St.  Louis,  Peoria,  Cedar  Rapids,  Syra- 
cuse, Indianapolis,  Hartford,  Pittsfield,  Brooklyn,  North- 
ampton, Concord,  Farmington,  and  Painesville. 

All  communications  relating'  to  the  School  or  its 
publications  should  be  addressed  to 

MISS   JULIET   CORSON, 

Superintendent  of  the  N.  Y.  School  of  Cooksry, 
NEW  YORK    CITY. 


