// 


#:.:^ 


r#' 


MifitKout  ©inirio? 


;-as«S%!i%?SS«j^£85iaK?K«»;<^^^^ 


The 


Missouri 


Cook  Book 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 


Shelf  ...FLZ  1 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


THE  MISSOURI   COOK   BOOK. 


'O  woman  1  enthroned  by  your  visions  elate 
In  temples  of  learning,  and  chambers  of  State, — 
Politician,  or  lawyer,  or  doctor  so  wise, 
Go  bottle  your  tears  and  pickle  your  sighs ; 
For  descend  you  must  to  every  day  life 
And  enter  the  ranks  of  the  housekeepers  strife. 
You  may  settle  like  Darwin,  the  monkey's  sad  fate. 
You  may  settle  all  questions  of  kingdom  or  S:ate, 
But  no  art  of  persuasion,  witty  or  wise. 
Will  settle  the  coffee  or  make  the  bread  rise, 
No  doctrines  nor  creed  since  eating  began 
Were  known  to  regale  a  right  hungry  man, 
Your  doctrines,  affinities,  destinies  dim, — 
Even  total  depravity  's  nothing  to  him, 
A  judge's  decision  may  turn  in  a  dish. 
Or  a  doctor's  prescription  be  found  in  a  fish. 
Great  thoughts  gleam  in  gravy,  and  nations  are  tost 
On  billows  of  soup, — and  finally  lost. 
Then  do  not  rebel,  but  with  good  common  sense, 
Submit  to  the  stomach's  omnipotence. 
Like  the  ghost  of  poor  Bancjuo,  you  always  must  meet 
That  unsettled,  old  (juestion,  '  O  what  shall  we  eat  ? ' 
And  another  close  follows — '  O  what  shall  we  cook  ? ' 
That  question  is  answered  in  this  little  book." 


THE 


MISSOURI 


Cook  Book 


PROVED  RECIPES, 


COLLECTED    AND    ARRANGED    BY 


THE  LADIES  OF  THE  BAPTIST  CHURCH, 


¥1 


FAYETTE,     MO. 

IT    , 


ST.  LOUIS: 

FARRIS,  SMITH  &  CO.  PRINT. 

919   OLIVE   STREET. 


<-k^ 


A"' 


f^'A 


ly 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  18S7,  by 

THE  LADIES  OF  THE  BAPTIST  CHURCH,  OF  FAYETTE,  MO. 

In  the  office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington 


PREFACE. 


When  we  first  thought  of  compiling  and  selling  these  recipes,  the 
amount  that  would  thus  be  brought  into  the  Lord's  treasury  was  our 
paramount  object,  but  as  we  have  studied  how  to  be  most  helpful  to 
those  who  will  patronize  us,  our  solicitude  to  give  back  to  them 
value  received,  has  almost  overwhelmed  every  other  idea,  for  we 
would  bring  no  reproach  upon  the  cause  to  which  our  efforts  are 
dedicated.  We  claim  no  originality  for  our  work.  Like  the  bee 
that  sips  the  sweetness  of  every  flower,  we  have  gathered  suggestions 
wherever  we  could  find  them.  The  recipes  we  offer  have  been  used 
by  the  best  house-keepers,  in  our  own  and  other  communities,  and 
we  bespeak  for  them  a  kindly  reception  and  fair  trial. 

As  the  book  goes  forth  to  stranger  and  friend,  our  work  is 
done.  We  have  bn^ught  our  loaves  and  fishes  to  the  Master.  May 
His  hand  direct  the  distribution,  and  bless  the  offering  that  we  lay 
down  at  His  feet. 


We  do  most  sincerely  express  our  thanks  to  the  many  ladies  who 
have  contributed  their  recipes,  and  also,  to  the  advertisers  who  have 
so  kindly  aided  in  accomplishing  our  work. 

Mrs.  Wm.  C.  Arline. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Bedford. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Ao-ate,  iron,  or  porcelain  kettles  should  be  used  for 
making  soups.  Meats  for  soups  should  be  put  to  cook 
in  cold  water,  boiled  gently,  and  the  required  quantity 
of  salt  added  at  first,  to  extract  the  juices  of  the  meat, 
and  cause  the  scum  to  rise.  AHow  one  quart  of  water 
and  a  teaspoon  of  salt  for  each  pound  of  meat.  Remove 
all  the  scum  carefully  before  the  vegetables  are  added. 
All  grease  should  be  removed  before  putting  in  the 
vegetables.  It  is  well  to  cook  the  meat  the  day  before 
the  soup  is  wanted,  that  the  grease  may  cool  and  be  re- 
moved. It  can  readily  be  removed  while  the  soup  is 
hot  by  adding  a  little  cold  water  to  the  liquor. 

BI.ACK  SOI :P. 

Cut  the  meat  from  beef  shank-bone.  Mash  the  bone 
and  simmer  all  slowl}^  in  two  gallons  of  water.  Six 
hours.  Set  away  to  get  cold.  Next  day  skim  off  all 
the  grease  that  has  risen.  Put  liquor  on,  with  vege- 
tables, two  turnips,  as  much  cabbage,  one  small  onion, 
carrots  and  tomatoes,  well  chopped  ;  boil  till  vegetables 
are  tender,  then  strain  through  a  colander,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  cloves,  and  boil  all  a  few  moments. 
— Mrs.  Jeannette  Leonard,  Fayette,  Mo. 

iviiiTE  sorp. 

Simmer  for  an  hour  in  three  quarts  of  chicken  or  veal 
stock,  parsley,  onion  or  celery.  Cut  in  small  pieces, 
with  a  blade  of  mace.  Strain  and  thicken  with  two 
ounces  of  liour.     Boil   two  minutes.     Add  half  pint  of 

9 


10  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

sweet  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  "When 
about  to  boil  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Serve. — Mrs.  H.  Everett,  Council  Bluffs ,  Iowa. 

ToiiATo  sorp. 

One  quart  fresh  milk,  one  pint  tomato  juice,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  salt,  one  teaspoonful  black  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda.  Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  add 
the  juice,  in  which  the  soda  has  been  well  dissolved; 
stir  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper  in  the  butter,  and  also 
add.  Boil  a  few  minutes  and  pour  over  crackers,  and 
serve. — Ilrs.  Mamie  White  Chinri,  Franklin.,  Mo. 

TOMATO    SOUP. 

To  one  quart  of  water  add  the  contents  of  a  quart  can 
of  tomatoes  ;  boil  iwenty  minutes,  then  strain  through 
a  sieve ;  add  one  pint  of  cream,  or  rich  milk  ;  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
rubbed  together.  Add  this  to  soup,  and  boil  five  min- 
utes. One-half  nutmeg  grated  in,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Then  ready  for  the  table. — 3Irs.  H.  Emrett., 
Council  Bluffs,  loioa. 

TOMATO    SOUP. 

To  one  gallon  of  water  use  half  a  chicken ;  let  boil 
half  an  hour,  then  add  two  large  tomatoes,  or  one  cup  of 
canned;  one  cup  of  rice.  Just  before  taking  up  j^ut  in 
a  cup  of  cream  and  a  small  lump  of  butter ;  salt  and 
pepper  to  your  taste. — Mrs.   T.  J.  Payne,  Fayette,  Mo. 

GERMAN  FRITTER  SOUP. 

To  one  chicken  take  three  quarts  of  water;  boil  two 
hours  and  a  half;  take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  mix  into  a  thin  batter 
and  make  into  griddle  cakes.  The  cakes  should  be 
baked  as  thin  as  a  leaf;  cut  in  small  strips  and  put  into 
a  bowl ;  season  with  a  little  mace  and  nutmeg ;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. — Mrs.  Joseph  Memmel,  Fayette,  Mo. 


SOUPS.  11 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

One  can  of  oysters,  two  tablespoonfals  of  butter; 
strain  the  liquor  from  tlie  oysters,  add  to  it  the  milk  ; 
set  it  over  the  fire  in  a  vessel ;  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water;  when  it  is  near  boiling  add  the  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  then  add  the  oysters  and  let  them  stew  until 
they  ruffle  on  the  edge.  This  will  be  in  about  five  min- 
utes. I  like  it  best  with  a  few  crackers  broken  in  it, 
just  before  taking  it  from  the  fire.  Serve  just  as  soon  as 
done.  The  crowning  excellence  in  oyster  soup  is  to 
have  it  cooked  just  enough. — 3f?'S.  EUzcibetli  Major, 
Fayette^  Mo. 

BEEF    SOIP. 

Secure  a  good  sized  soup  bone  and  put  it  in  one  gallon 
of  cold  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  more  water 
can  be  added  later  on  if  necessary  ;  skim  when  needed  ; 
while  boiling  keep  it  well  covered,  and  boil  slowly  for 
four  or  five  hours.  An  hour  before  using  add  one  can 
of  tomatoes,  or  eight  good  sized  ripe  tomatoes,  also  two 
or  three  small  potatoes,  sliced  thin,  and  one  teaspoonful 
black  pepper  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  To  one 
e^^,  well  beaten,  add  fiour  enough  to  make  very  stiff; 
roll  very  thin  and  let  dry  for  an  hour  ;  then  cut  in  thin 
strips,  and  drop  in  soup  fifteen  minutes  before  serving; 
also  one  tablespoonful  of  fiour,  mixed  in  a  little  cold 
water,  and  add  it  the  last  thing  just  before  taking  from 
the  fire. — Mrs.  Margaret  Unriili.,  Fayette.,  Mo. 

BEEF  SOI  P. 

For  one  gallon  soup  pare  six  or  eight  good  sized  pota- 
toes, slice  thin  and  boil  tender ;  take  same  number 
large,  ripe  tomatoes,  one  large  teacup  dried  okra,  one 
teaspoonful  soda,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  a  little  rice, 
if  preferred.  Boil  each  in  separate  vessels,  till  tender, 
then  all  together  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  A  medium 
sized  beef  bone  will  season  sufficiently.     Add  salt  to 


12  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

taste.  Some  think  cabbage  chopped  fine  and  added  an 
improvement;  many  do  not. — Miss  Jennie  Key  ser,  FQ.y- 
ette,  Mo. 

MOCK  OYSTER  SOUP. 

One  pint  tomatoes,  well  stewed  ;  one  quart  boiling 
water  ;  })ut  in  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  When  it  has  done 
foaming  add  one  quart  boiling  milk;  a  piece  of  butter, 
size  of  an  egg.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  upon 
three  soda  crackers,  to  suit  taste. — Mrs.  Samuel  Co2^p, 
St.  Louis. 

BEEF  BOX IIELE. 

Take  the  face  of  the  rump  and  put  it  on  to  boil  about 
four  hours  ;  after  it  has  been  on  half  an  hour  skim  it 
well ;  then  add  carrots  and  turnips,  cut  up  fine  ;  roast 
one  onion  brown  on  the  coals,  stick  it  with  cloves 
and  put  it  in  ;  add  half  a  tumbler  of  red  wine  (port  is 
better,)  a  little  tomato,  or  other  catsup,  cayenne,  or  any 
other  good  thing.  Before  serving  take  out  some  of  the 
gravy  in  a  teacup,  and  cut  up  a  pickled  cucumber  into 
slices  and  pour  over  the  beef. — Mrs.  Samuel  Treat,  St. 
Louis. 

GREE^  PEA  SOUP. 

Take  one  quart  of  peas,  cover  with  about  three  quarts 
of  water;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  almost 
done  add  a  teacupful  of  rich  cream.  Serve. — Mrs.  T.  R. 
Betts,  Fayette,  Mo. 

BROIVIVED  FI.OITR. 

Put  a  pint   of  Hour  in  a  saucepan ;  stir  constantly 

with  a  wooden  spoon   until   it  is  a  dark  brown.     Put 

away  in  a  covered  jar,  and  use  it  in  soups  or  gravies. 

More  of  this  is  required  to  thicken  with   than  of  un- 

browned  flour. 

CARAMEE. 

Caramel,  for  coloring  soups,  is  made  by  putting  a 
tablespoon  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt  in  a  diy  sauce- 
pan, over  the  fire  ;  stir  constantly  until  it  is  slightl}^ 


SOUPS.  13 

burnt.     When  very  dark  brown  pour  in  less  than  a  tea 
spoon  of  water;  keep  stirring  and  gradually  add  a  cup 
of  water.    Be  sure  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved. 
a  ricli  color  and  is  better  than  browned  flour 


This  gives 


FOR  COI.OKIXC;  SOI  PS. 

For  an  amber  color  use  grated  carrot ;  for  hrown  nse 
caramel,  or  browned  Hour  ;   for  reel  use  the  pulp  and 
juice  of  ripe  tomatoes;  for  white  soup  use  white  vege 
tables  ;  for  thickening  use  rice,   pearl,  barley  or  mac- 
caroni. 


TISI[^lI\'B*OTSTBrvS; 


HINTS. 

Notice  that  the  body  of  the  fish  is  firm  and  the  eyes 
full  and  the  gills  red.  Almost  every  kind  of  fish  is 
either  boiled,  broiled,  or  fried.  Any  small  fish  of  the 
size  of  a  smelt,  or  smaller,  is  better  fried  tljan  prepared 
in  any  other  way.  Fish,  like  salmon-trout,  are  best 
when  baked,  and  some  fine  sauce  poured  over  them.  A 
cup  of  diluted  cream,  in  which  is  stirred  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley  makes 
an  excellent  sauce  for  salmon-trout.  Before  broiling 
fish  rub  the  gridiron  witli  a  piece  of  fat,  to  prevent  its 
sticking.  Lay  the  skin  side  down  first.  The  earthy 
taste  often  found  in  fresh  water  fish  can  be  removed  by 
soaking  in  salt  and  water.  Most  kinds  of  salt  fish 
should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  for  twenty -four  hours  ; 
the  fleshy  side  turned  down  in  the  water. 

TO  BOIL  FISH. 

Fish  should  be  scaled  and  thoroughly  cleaned,  well 
salted  and  put  in  a  cold  place  until  time  to  cook.  Boil 
in  a  fish  kettle,  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  or  wrap 
and  tie  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  in  any  cooking  vessel  ;  if 
the  fish  is  large  it  can  be  doubled  in  the  cloth  ;  cover 
with  more  than  two  inches  of  boiling  water,  adding  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  to 
every  pound  of  fish.  A  good  sized  fish  will  cook  in  half 
an  hour.     Be  careful  not  to  break  in  taking  out. 

Sauce. — Stir  into  a  pint  of  milk,  boiling,  a  piece  of 
butler  the  size  of  an  eg^g,  mixed  with  Hour,  and  a  hard 
boiled  idgg^  cut  up  fine  ;  pour  this  over  the  fish  or  serve 
in  a  sauce-boat. — Mrs.  8.  P.  Si7?ipso7i,  St.  Louis,  1875, 

14 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS.  15 

BAKED  FISH. 

Clean  and  wipe  the  tish  dry  ;  tie  a  string  round  tlie 
head  and  dredge  with  flonr,  pepper  and  salt ;  bake  in  a 
pan,  witli  butter  and  lard,  and  baste  it  often  while 
baking;  a  good  size  fish  should  cook  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  If  desired  it  can  be  stuffed  with  the  same 
dressing  used  for  turkeys,  onl}^  more  highly  seasoned. 

FRIED  FISH. 

Clean  the  fish  well ;  cut  up  into  pieces  about  two  by 
four  inches  ;  lay  around  in  a  colander,  skin  down,  and 
sprinkle  with  salt.  Let  stand  an  hour,  or  half  a  day,  if 
need  be.  Have  the  fat  hot  in  a  ftying-pan.  Roll  in 
corn  meal ;  fry  slowly  and  cook  a  long  time,  till  thor- 
oughly done  through.  If  desired  it  can  be  then  dij)ped 
in  well  beaten  egg  and  rolled  in  crackers  after  frying,  if 
preferred. — 3Its.  E.  Major. 

ISOII.FD  PIKE  WITH  EGO  SAFCE. 

Any  llsh  will  do  ;  after  it  is  dressed,  la}"  it  in  the  form 
of  a  circle,  b}^  putting  its  tail  into  its  mouth,  and  take  a 
stitch  with  a  darning  needle  in  its  head  and  tail  ,to  hold 
it  in  place.  To  two  quarts  of  water  put  half  a  cup  of 
vinegar,  a  teaspoon  of  whole  cloves,  same  of  whole 
pepper,  a  bay  leaf.  Half  a  lemon  sliced  is  a  nice  addi- 
tion, and  a  tablespoon  of  salt.  Put  over  in  cold  water, 
and  boil  till  the  tins  fall  off  easily,  then  the  skin  can  be 
easily  removed,  if  desired.  Serve  with  egg  sauce,  made 
by  adding  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  to  a 
white  sauce.  Pour  the  sauce  inside  the  circle  of  tish. 
Lay  a  sprig  of  parsley  on  top  of  one  side  of  the  tish,  and 
a  few  slices  of  lemon  at  the  side  of  the  platter. 

BAKED  FISH  WITH  CREA^fl  SAl  €E. 

Take  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour, 
mix  in  a  saucepan  over  the  Are;  add  either  milk  or 
water,  till  a  pint  has  been  used;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.     Take  any  kind  of  baked  fish,  remove  the  bone 


10  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

and  skin,  put  in  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  the  sauce  and 
dust  witli  cracker  dust.     Bake  a  delicate  brown. 

BROILED  FISH. 

To  broil  a  shad,  or  aii}^  other  fish,  grease  the  bars  of 

the  broiler  well.     Put  the  inside  to  the  lire  first.     The 

backbone  can  be  removed   by   running  a  knife  along 

under  it,  and  the  long  bones  can  be  loosened  and  taken 

out,  one,  or  more,  at  a  time,  with  a  little  knife,  after  the 

backbone  is  cut  away  from  them.     Let  brown  without 

burning,  till  the  flakes  separate.     Turn  the  skin  part  to 

the  fire  long  enough  to  brown.     Season  either  before  or 

after  cutting. 

SHEI.I.  FISH— CXAMS. 

To  judge  whether  clams  and  oysters  are  fresh,  insert 

a  knife,  and  if  the  shell  instantly  close  firmly  on  the 

knife   the    oysters   are   fresh.     If  it   shuts  slowly  and 

faintly,  or  not  at  all,  they  are  dying,  or  dead.     When 

the  shell  of  raw  oysters  are  found  gaping  open  they  are 

not  good. 

FRIED  CXAMS. 

Take  large  soft-shell  clams,  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  and 

dip  them  first  in  beaten  Qgg  and  then  powdered  cracker 

or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  sweet  lard  or  bu<:ter,  or 

both,  mixed. 

FRIED  FROGS. 

Scald  the  hind   quarters  in  boiling  water,  rub  them 

with  lemon  juice  and  boil  for  three  minutes  ;  wipe  them, 

dip  them  first  in  cracker  dust,  then  in  a  mixture  of  two 

beaten  eggs  in  half  a  cup  of  milk,  seasoned  with  pepper 

and  salt ;  then  again  in  cracker  crumbs.     When  they 

are  well  covered  with  crumbs,  fry  in  a  mixture  of  hot 

lard  and  butter. 

TR ASK'S  SEI.ECT  SHORE  MACKEREI.. 

Take  a  mackerel,  put  it  in  soak  over  night  in  a  pan  of 
water,  skin  side  up  ;  take  it  out  and  wipe  it  dr}^  with  a 
towel,  then  fry  it  in  butter,  and  serve  hot.     If  preferred 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS.  17 

broil  it,  and  put  on  hot  butter;  or  if  preferred  it  can  be 

boiled  in  a  pan  of  water,  and  then  served  with  drawn 

butter. 

CODFISH    AXI>   C'REA:*!. 

Freshen  the  codfish  to  taste  ;  turn  off  the  water ;  add 

milk  and  butter,  and  a  small  quantity  of  thickening; 

stir  well  ;  break  in  two  eggs,  and  serve  wlien  cooked. 

<  OWFISII  BATil.S. 

Boil  and  mash  potatoes,  and  keej)  Avarm  for  mixing 
with  the  codfish  ;  freshen  the  codfish,  taking  care  not 
to  freshen  too  much ;  add  to  the  codfish  double  amount 
of  potatoes  ;  put  in  pork  fat  for  seasoning,  and  milk 
enough  to  soften  ;  roll  into  balls,  and  fiy  in  hot  pork  fat 
until  entirely  brown. 

FRIED   OYSTERS. 

Strain  off  the  liquor  and  dry  the  oysters  well  in  a 
towel  ;  beat  light  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  add  one  half 
teacup  of  cream  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  dip  in 
rolled  crackers,  then  in  the  egg,  and  again  in  the  crack- 
ers ;  drop  in  boiling  lard,  and  fry  until  a  light  brown  ; 
garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. — 3Irs.  Jt  P.  Williams^ 
Fayette,  Mo. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Drain   select   o^^sters   in   a   colander;  dip   them   one 

by  one  into   melted  butter,  to  prevent  sticking  to  the 

gridiron,  and  place  them  on  a  wire  gridiron  ;  broil  over  a 

clear  fire ;  when  nicely  browned  on  both  sides,  season 

with  salt  and  pepper,   and  plenty  of  butter,  and  lay 

them   on   buttered    toast,  moistened   with   a   little   hot 

water.    Serve  very  hot  or  the}'  will  not  be  nice.    Oysters 

cooked  in  this  way  and  served  on  broiled  beefsteak  are 

nice. 

OYSTER   (ROQl  ETTES. 

Take  the  hard  end  of  the  oyster,  leaving  the  other  end 
in  nice  sluipe  for  a  stew  or  soup  ;  scald  them  ;  then  choj) 
fine,  and  then  add  an  equal  weight  of  potatoes,  rubberl 


18  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

through  a  colander ;  to  one  pound  of  this  add  two 
ounces  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mace,  and  one 
half  gill  of  cream  ;  maL-e  in  small  rolls  ;  dip  in  egg  and 
grated  bread  ;  fry  in  beef  lard. 

FRICASSEED   OYSTERS. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters;  strain  half 
a  pint  and  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  when  it  boils 
put  in  the  oysters  ;  have  a  tablespoonful  of  liour  rubbed 
well  into  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter;  when  the  oys- 
ters begin  to  swell  stir  in  the  butter  and  Hour  ;  cook 
until  the  oysters  are  white  and  plump,  then  add  a  gill 
of  cream,  and  pepper  and  salt. 

FRIEI>  OYSTERS. 

Take  large  oysters,  wash  and  drain  ;  dip  them  into 
flour;  put  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  with  plenty  of  lard  and 
butter;  season  with  salt  andpe23per  ;  fry  brown  on  both 
sides.  Fried  in  this  way  they  are  similar  to  broiled 
oysters. 

C'HICKEBT  AND   OYSTER  PIE. 

Parboil  a  chicken,  cut  up  and  place  in  a  pie  dish ; 

cover  with  oysters,  and  season  to   taste;  add  two  hard 

boiled  eggs,  cut  into  slices,  with  piece  of  butter,  size  of 

an  egg.  in  the  center;  dust  the  whole  with  liour,  and 

pour  on  one  half  pint  of  milk  ;  put  on  a  puff  paste  crust, 

and  bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate 

oven. 

SCAEEOPED    OYSTERS. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  crackers, 
rolled,  or  stale  light  bread  ;  then  a  layer  of  oysters, 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  a  layer  of  crumbs  again, 
and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Having  the  last  layer 
crumbs,  pour  over  the  oyster  liquor,  and  if  that  is  not 
sufficient  to  moisten  well  add  milk.  Bake  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. — 3frs.  E.  Major,  Fayette,  Mo. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS.  19 

STr.A:»iEn  otstkrs  ix  the  siiei.i.. 

Wash  well  and  lay  in  a  steamer.  When  they  are 
cooked  enough  the  shell  will  open.  They  may  be 
turned  into  hot  dishes,  or  served  in  the  shells ;  to  be 
seasoned  by  the  consumer. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Line  small  patry-pans  with  puff  paste,  into  each  pan 
pat  six  oysters,  bits  of  batter,  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle 
over  a  little  flour  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped,  (allow- 
ing about  six  eggs  for  six  patties,)  cover  with  an  upper 
crust,  notch  the  edges  and  bake.  Serve  either  in  the 
pans  or  remove  to  a  larger  platter. 

OYSTER   A   EA  POl  EETTE. 

Scald  a  dozen  oj^sters  in  their  own  liquor,  salt  and 
remove  the  oysters,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  teaspoonfal 
of  flour ;  beat  up  the  yolk  of  one  e^g  while  the  sauce  is 
simmering  ;  add  the  egg  and  simmer  the  whole,  until  it 
thickens.  Place  the  oysters  on  a  hot  dish,  poar  the 
sauce  over  them,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  on 
the  top  and  serve. 

O ASTER   EEAYOR. 

A  German  cook  has  discovered  a  way  to  have  oyster 
flavor  all  the  year  round.  Take  fresh,  large,  plump  oys- 
ters, beard  them,  and  place  them  in  a  vessel  over  the 
fire  for  a  few  moments  in  order  to  extract  the  juice,  then 
put  them  to  cool,  and  chop  them  fine  with  powdered  bis- 
cuit, mace,  and  finely  minced  lemon  peel ;  pound  them 
until  they  become  a  paste;  make  them  up  into  thin 
cakes,  place  them  on  a  sheet  of  pai)er  in  a  slow  oven 
and  let  them  bake  until  they  become  quite  hard  ;  pound 
them  directly  into  powder,  and  place  the  powder  in  a 
dry  tin  box.  well  covered  ;  keep  in  a  dry  place  and  it 
will  be  very  much  appreciated  when  the  true  oyster 
flavor  is  imparted  to  flsh,  sauce  and  dishes.  This  makes 
a  delicous  sauce  for  fresh  cod. 


iULiV 


'*TSs^ 


DIRECTIONS. 

Fresh  meats  should  always  be  cooked  in  boiling 
water,  and  kept  constantly  boiling,  if  not,  the  meat 
will  soak  up  the  water.  If  more  water  is  needed 
be  careful  that  it  is  boiling  water ;  remove  the  scum 
when  it  hrst  begins  to  boil ;  allow  twenty  minutes  for 
each  pound  of  fresh  meat.  Salt  meat  should  be  boiled 
in  cold  water,  allowing  twenty  hve  minutes  to  every 
pound.  The  more  gently  meat  boils  the  more  tender 
it  is. 

ROAST  BEEF. 
The  sirloin  and  standing  rib  pieces  are  the  best  ; 
have  the  butcher  take  out  as  much  of  the  bone  of  the 
latter  as  possible  ;  skewer  it  to  keep  it  in  shape  ;  sprin- 
kle with  salt  and  pepper  ;  pour  a  little  water  into  the 
pan  to  keep  the  meat  from  burning;  allow  twenty  min- 
utes to  the  pound  for  rare  beef,  one  half  hour  when  to 
be  well  done ;  when  done,  put  the  meet  into  a  platter 
and  keep  warm  ;  pour  oif  the  drippings,  and  with  the 
dark  remaining  prepare  your  grav}^  by  a  few  dishes  of 
brown  flour,  a  little  water,  the  whole  brought  to  a  boil. 
Send  to  the  table  hot. 

BOAST  POBK. 

Season  well  and  roast  slowly  at  hrst,  allowing  fully 
half  an  hour  to  a  pound  ;  put  some  water  in  the  pan, 
and  baste  often.  Cook  thoroughly.  Fried  cabbage  is 
very  nice  with  pork,  also  any  tart  sauce  ;  canned  vege- 
tables, or  turnips,  are  nice;  celery  is  always  admissible. 
20 


MEATS.  21 

ROAST  I.EG   OF  I.AMB. 

Roast  it  ill  the  usual  nianuer.  When  about  done, 
and  a  light  brown  on  top,  make  a  dressing  in  this  way  : 
Put  into  a  skillet  one  large  kitchen  spoonful  of  lard  ; 
when  hot  pour  into  it  this  batter:  One  pint  of  butter 
milk,  one  handful  of  meal,  two  handfuls  of  flour,  one 
egg,  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little 
sage,  and  one  small  onion.  Stir  constantly  until  done. 
Cut  the  roast  several  times  across  the  top,  and  spread 
the  dressing  on  over  the  top  and  sides ;  return  to  the 
oven  and  brown.  This  is  veil/  nice. — 3Irs.  Louisa  Se- 
bree,  FayeMe.,  Mo. 

ROAST    I.ITTI.E   PIG. 

The  pig  should  be  three  weeks  old,  well  cleaned,  and 
stuffed  with  a  dressing  of  this  proportion :  Two  large 
onions,  four  times  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  sage,  two  ounces  of  butter,  half 
a  salt-spoonful  of  pepper,  one  salt  spoonful  of  salt,  and 
one  egg.  or  it  may  be  filled  with  veal  force-meat  stuffing, 
if  preferred,  or,  it  may  be  stuffed  with  hot,  mashed  pota- 
toes. Sew  it  together  with  a  strong  thread,  trussing  its 
fore  legs  forward  and  its  hind  legs  backward.  Rub  the 
pig  with  butter,  flour,  pepper,  and  salt.  Roast  it  at 
flrst  before  a  very  slow  Are,  as  it  should  be  thoroughly 
done  ;  or,  if  it  is  baked,  the  oven  should  not  be  too  hot 
at  first.  Baste  it  very  often.  When  done  (in  about 
three  hours,)  place  a  cob  or  a  potato  in  its  mouth, 
having  put  something  in  at  flrst  to  keep  it  open.  Serve 
it  with  apple- sauce  or  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  Henderson'' s 

Cook  Book. 

cha:»ii»agm:  iiA.n. 

When  boiling  liani  add  one  quart  of  strong  vinegar, 
one  half  hour  before  taking  ott'.  This  cuts  the  grease  in 
the  ham  and  imparts  a  peculiar,  sharp,  and  pleasant 
flavor.  When  done  put  the  ham  into  the  oven  to  bake  ; 
flrst  lay  three  or  four  little  sticks  on  the  top  of  the  i)an. 


22  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


on  tliem  put  your  ham  ;  this  allows  all  the  grease  to 
drop  down  in  the  pan,  and  leaves  tlie  meat  very  dry.  • 
Bake  in  a  slow,  cool  oven  an  hour. — M7~s.  J.  Kinney, 
Fraiiklin,  Mo. 

BAKED   HAM. 

Make  a  thick  paste  of  flour  (not  boiled,)  and  cover  the 
ham  with  it,  bone  and  all  ;  put  in  a  pan  one  or  two 
pieces  of  large  wire,  or  any  thing  that  will  keep  it  an 
inch  from  the  bottom.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  If  a  small 
ham,  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  ;  if  large,  twenty 
minutes.  The  ham  should  be  placed  in  the  pan,  the 
skin  side  down.  The  paste  forms  a  hard  crust  around 
the  ham,  and  the  skin  comes  off  with  it. — 3£rs.  Lucy 
Boone,  Jefferson  City,  Mo. 

BOIIiEO    HAM. 

Put  the  ham  to  soak  over  the  night,  then  wash  and 
cleanse  well,  and  put  it  in  to  boil,  with  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  it.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  place 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  cook  slowly  until  tender, 
when  pierced  with  a  fork  ;  be  careful  to  keep  the  water 
at  the  boiling  point ;  turn  the  ham  over  once  or 
twice.  A  very  good  rule  is  to  allow  twenty  minutes  to 
the  pound  in  boiling.  When  done  take  up  and  put  into 
a  baking  pan,  and  then  dip  the  hands  in  cold  water  and 
take  the  skin  between  the  fingers,  and  peel.  When 
cool,  and  ready  for  baking,  either  rub  white  sugar  into, 
it  well  and  bake  until  brown,  or  take  one  %^g  and  beat 
it  well,  then  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  cracker 
crumbs  all  over  the  top,  and  brown. 

DRESSi:^0  FOR  BAKED  HAM. 

Boil  tender,  then  remove  the  skin,  set  in  the  stove  to 
bake  twentj^  minutes,  then  spread  on  a  batter  of  one 
^^^,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  the  same  of  buttermilk^  and 
a  little  soda,  mixed.  Set  in  the  stove  to  brown.  Stick 
cloves  over  it  before  putting  in  the  oven. — M.  C.  Burton. 


MEATS.  23 

BOII.El>  BKKF  TOXCirE. 

Wasli  clean,  jnit  into  jxM  with  water  to  cover,  a  pint 
of  salt,  and  a  small  pod  of  red  pepper;  if  the  water 
boils  away  add  more;  be  careful  to  keep  it  covered 
until  done;  boil  until  it  can  be  pierced  easily  with  a 
fork  ;  take  out,  and  if  needed  for  present  use,  take  oft' 
the  skin,  and  set  away  to  cool  ;  if  to  be  kept  some  days 
do  not  peel  until  wanted  for  the  table.  Salt  tongue, 
boil  the  same  way,  only  leave  out  the  salt;  or  a  nice 
seasoning  is  to  take  a  saucepan,  with  one  cup  of  water, 
one  half  cup  vinegar,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar ;  cook 
till  liquor  is  evaporated. 

BEEFSTEAK   S:!IOTIIERED    IX  OMOXS. 

Slice  the  onions  thin  and  drop  in  cold  water;  put 
steak  in  pan,  with  a  little  lard.  Take  out  the  onions 
and  add  to  steak.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover 
tightly,  and  put  over  the  fire.  When  the  juice  of  the 
onions  has  dried  up,  and  the  meat  brown  on  one  side, 
remove  the  onions,  turn  the  steak,  replace  onions,  and 
fry  till  done,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 

FRIEI>  BEEFSTEAK. 

Pound  and  sprinkle  well  with  llour  ,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  :  lay  in  a  frying-pan,  with  hot  lard  or  butter. 
Turn  frequently  until  done. 

BROIEEB   BEEFSTEAK. 

Lay  a  thick,  tender  steak,  upon  a  gridiron  well 
greased  with  butter,  or  beef  suet,  over  hot  coals  :  when 
done  on  one  side  have  ready  the  warmed  phitter,  with  a 
little  butter  on  it.  Lay  the  steak,  without  pressing  it, 
upon  the  platter,  with  the  cooked  side  down,  so  that  the 
juices  which  have  gathered  may  rnu  in  the  platter; 
quickly  place  it  on  the  gridiron  and  cook  the  other 
side.  When  done  to  liking  put  on  the  platter  again  ; 
spread  lightly  with  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 


24  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

and  keep  where  it  will  keep  warm  (over  boiling  steam 
is  best)  for  a  few  minutes,  but  do  not  let  butter  become 
oily.  Serve  on  hot  platter.  Many  prefer  to  sear  on  one 
side,  turn  immediately,  and  sear  on  the  other,  and  finish 
cooking,  turning  often;  garnish  with  fried  sliced  pota- 
toes, or  with  browned  potato  balls,  the  size  of  a  marble, 
piled  at  each  end  of  platter. 

MITTOX   CHOPS. 
Place  in  a  dripping-pan,  season  well,  and  set  in  a  hot 
oven.     This  is  the  nicest  way  we  have  ever  cooked  mut- 
ton chops.     The  gravy  may  be  thickened,  or  not,  just  as 
you  prefer.     It  is  not  necessary  to  turn  them. 

VEAT^   CITTI^ETS. 

Fry  until  pretty  well  done,  then  take  out  and  dip  into 
beaten  egp;,  and  tlien  in  rolled  cracker,  with  salt  stirred 
in,  and  fry  again,  turning  so  as  to  get  a  nice  brown  on 
each  side.  JSIake  a  gravy  of  water  and  a  spoonful  of 
flour,  in  the  frying-pan,  and  pour  over.  Season,  if  not 
salted  enough  ;  tomatoes  are  nice,  served  with  cutlets. 

PORK   TEXDEREOI^. 

Have  the  spider  hot,  grease  it  with  a  bit  of  lard,  and 

fry  both  sides  brown,  but  do  not  cook  them  through  ; 

cover  with  boiling  water,  and  stir  twenty  minutes  or  a 

half  hour ;  thicken  the  gravy,  and  season  with  pepper 

and  salt.    The  meat  will  taste  like  chicken,  and  is  every 

bit  as  good. 

MOCK   DUCK. 

Prepare  a  good  dressing,  such  as  you  like  for  turkey 

or  duck.     Take  a  round  steak,  pound  it,  but  not  very 

hard,  spread  the  dressing  over  it,  sprinkle  in  a  little  salt, 

l^epper,  and  a  few  bits  of  butter.     Lap  over  the  ends, 

roll  the  steak  up  tightly,  and  tie  closely  ;  spread  two 

large  spoonfuls  butter  over  the  steak  after  rolling  it  up, 

then  wash  with  a  well  beaten  egg;  put  water  in  a  bake- 

pan,  lay  in  the  steak  so  as  not  to  touch  the  water,  and 


ME  A  2;s.  25 

bake  as  you  would  a  duck,  bastinf^  often.     A  half  hour 

in  a  brisk  oven  will  bake.     Make  a  blown  grav}',  and 

send  to  table  hot. 

BAK£D   ]IA:fI. 

Slice  as  for  frying,  put  in  hot  skillet,  cover,  put  in 
oven  and  bake.  Will  require  little  more  time  than  to 
fry. — 3Ilss  JVannit  lup.ser,  Fayidte^  Mo. 

SAISAGE. 

One  hundred  pounds  of  meat,  ground  fine,  two  and 
one-half  pounds  of  salt,  ten  ounces  of  black  pepper, 
eight  ounces  of  sage.  Mix  well.  You  can  use  a  little 
red  pepper,  if  you  like;  one-half  dozen  nutmegs  is  a 
gieat  improvement. — Mrs.  M.  Pile.,  Fayette.,  Mo. 

BEKF    HASH. 

Equal  ciuantities  of  meat,  and  potatoes,  a  small  onion, 
slice  of  breakfast  bacon,  or  lump  of  butter.  Boil  an 
hour.  Pour  a  little  cream  in  a  few  minutes  before 
taking  from  the  stove.  Season,  of  course,  with  salt  and 
pepper. — Mrs.  Odon  Guitar,  Columbia.,  Mo. 

BAKED  HASH. 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  sejison  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  ^gg,  a  small  onion,  chopped 
line  ;  put  in  a  tin  baking  pan  ;  n,  layer  of  meat  and  a 
layer  of  biead  crumbs  ;  i)our  over  the  whole  a  cuj:)  of 
cream,  or  rich  milk  ;  put  in  the  oven,  and  bake  slowly, 
until  a  nice  brown. — JSlllie  Keyscr,  Fayette.,  Mo. 
BEEF  C  ROQl  ETTES. 

Use  cold  roast  beef;  chop  it  line  ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt;  add  one-third  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs, 
and  moisten  with  a  little  milk.  Have  your  hands 
floured;  rub  the  meat  into  balls;  dip  it  into  beaten 
^%g,  then  into  line  pulverized  crackers,  and  fry  in  but- 
ter; garnish  with  paisley.  To  pulverize  the  crackers 
roll  them  with  the  rolling-pin  on  the  bread  board,  and 
sift  them. 


26  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

SWEET-BREAI>S. 

Veal  sweet-breads  are  best.    As  they  spoil  ver}^  soon, 

they  should  as  soon  as  brought  from  market  be  put  in 

cold  water  and  left  to  soak  an  hour;  then  lard  them, 

and  put  them  in  boiling  water,  or  stock,  and  let  them 

boil  twenty   minutes.     They   will   be   white   and  firm. 

Remove  the  skin,  and  put  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to 

cook  again. 

FRIED   SWEET-BKEADS. 

Parboil  them,  as  just  explained;  cut  them  in  even 
sized  pieces ;  sprinkle  over  pepper  and  salt ;  egg  and 
bread  crumb  them,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard. 

VEAE  EOAF. 

Six  Boston  crackers,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  pepper,  and  sage,  or  summer  savory  ;  three  pounds 
of  veal.  The  veal  must  be  raw,  and  chopped  fine  ;  mix 
all  well  together  and  pack  it  hard  in  a  deep  tin  pan; 
bake  slowly  for  one  hour;  a  tablespoon  of  butter  im- 
proves it.     This  is  a  nice  relish  for  tea,  and  should  be 

sliced  thin  when  cold. 

OPOSSIM. 

Clean  like  a  pig,  scrape,  not  skin  it.  Chop  the  liver 
fine ;  mix  with  bread  crumbs,  chopped  onion,  and  pars- 
ley, with  pepper  and  salt ;  bind  with  a  beaten  egg,  and 
stuff  the  body  with  it.  Sew  up,  roast,  baste  with  salt 
and  water.  In  order  to  have  it  crisp,  rub  it  over  w^ith  a 
cloth,  dipped  in  its  own  grease.  Serve  with  the  gravy, 
made  of  brown  flour.  Serve  it  whole  on  a  platter,  and 
put  a  baked  apple  in  its  mouth. — Judge,  T.  R.  BeAts-, 
Fay  Me,  Mo. 

BABBIT   STEW. 

Skin,  clean,  and  cut  in  small  pieces  two  rabbits.  Let 
them  stand  in  cold  salt  water  for  an  hour  ;  then  put 
on  to  cook,  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and 
boil  till  tender.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir 
one  tablespoon  of  butter,  made  smooth,  with  two  table- 
spoons of  flour,  into  the  gravy. 


MEATS.  27 

SOUSE. 

Having  cleaned  the  pigs'  feet  perfectly,  and  removed 
the  skin  and  bones,  chop  line  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  little  sage.  Mould  in  a  pan.  When  cold  it  can 
be  sliced,  and  vinegar  poured  over  it. 

MGS'   FEET. 

Boil  them  until  done  thoroughly,  then  split  the  claws, 
and  fry  them  in  batter;  just  dipped  into  the  batter. 
Batter. — One-half  pint  of  milk,  one  egg,  little  salt,  flour 
enough  to  make  it  a  little  thicker  than  flapjacks ;  fry 
them  in  hot  lard. 

BEEFSTEAK  BAEES. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  of  round  steak,  chopped  flne  ; 
two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  two  tablespoons  of 
milk  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  drop  in  spider  and  fry 
until  done. — Jliss  Cora  Jones,  Sf/racuse,  N.  Y. 

TO  PICKEE    OXE    HEIM^DRED    POEXDS    OF    BEEF 
OR  TOAGEE. 

Sprinkle  the  bottom  of  tub,  or  flrkin,  with  salt.  Four 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  four  ounces  of  saltpetre,  four 
quarts  of  flne  Liverpool  salt.  Mix  well  together,  and  in 
packing  sprinkle  evenly  over  the  meat.  The  dissolving 
of  salt  and  juice  of  meat  will  be  sufficient  to  pickle. 
Keep  the  meat  closely  pressed  together  with  a  good 
weight. — Mrs.  Nettie  Gannett,  Fayette,  Mo. 

TO  CERE  BAC'OX. 

For  every  three  hundred  pounds  of  pork  use  fourteen 
pounds  of  common  salt,  and  one  pound  each  of  brown 
sugar  and  saltpetre.  Rub  them  into  the  meat,  and  let 
it  lie  for  three  weeks,  rubbing  and  turning  it  occasion- 
ally. Then  wipe  dry,  rub  again  with  flne  salt,  wrap  it 
in  a  thick  cloth,  or  paper;  hang  in  cool  place  to  dry. 


j>Aiuij.uvj^^_l  (Jli^im^Ai  V. 


-^^'.^  &  ]:  \  .  \'  ,\-^  h  I  I  h'  ^  A  I  I'::  A    1  S;^5^ 


OYSTER  SAICE   FOR   TURKEY. 

Drain  tlironoh  a  colander.  The  liquor  s  boiled  and 
skimmed  ;  thickened  with  butter  and  Hour,  (one  large 
tablespoon  of  butter,  and  a  scant  one  of  llour,)  add  a 
trifle  of  mace  and  chopped  parsley,  then  the  oysters, 
stirrino-  constantly  until  done. — 3Ir.s.  R.  P.  Williams, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

MIKT   SArCE    FOR  EAMB. 

To  one  cup  of  hot  vinegar  add  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  one  of  butter,  and  one  of  chopped  pe{)permint. — 
Mrs.  J.  Kinney,  Franklin,  Mo. 

MIXT   SAFCE    FOR  I.A:fIB. 

Vinegar,  one  half  pint ;  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  ; 
chopped  mint,  six  tablespoonfuls.  Let  it  stand  two 
hours,  and  serve  in  sauce-boat.-  JbTr.s.  R.  P.  Williams, 
Fay(dte,  Mo. 

TOMATO   SAF€E   FOR  ROAST  BEEF. 

Put  a  pint  of  tomatoes,  three  cloves,  three  all- 
spice, pepper  and  salt,  one  small  onion  (sliced,)  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  in  a  stew  pan,  "and  after  cooking 
twenty  minutes  strain  through  a  sieve;  put  in  this 
a  scant  tablespoon  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour;  cook  Ave 
minutes,  and  serve. — Mrs.  R.  P.  Williams,  Fayette,  Mo. 

IVIIITE,  OR  SIET  PI  DDENG. 

To  one  cup  of  chopped  suet  add  three  cups  of  flour; 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  this  dry  into  a 
bag  about  four  inches  wide,  and  eight  or  ten  long,  as 
tight  as  you  can,  and  sew  up  the  end,  and  steam  for  two 

28 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS.  29 

hours.     Tins  is  a  very  nice  dish,  with  turkey  or  meat. — 
3Irs.  J.  Kinney^  Franldin,  Mo. 

TdlATO   SAIJCE. 

One  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  or  one  dozen  whole  ones, 
add  two  cloves,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  a 
few  slices  of  onion,  and  one  cup  of  stock.  Cook  to- 
gether half  hour. — Mr.s.  L.  31.  Flndley.,  8t.  Louis,  3£o. 

MISTARD. 

Three  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard,  one  of  salt,  and  one 
half  of  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar ; 
mix  with  hot  vinegar. — Mrs.  R.  P.  Williams,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

OYSTER  STLFFIXG    FOR  BAKED  FISH. 

One  quart  of  bread  crumbs ;  soak  in  cold  water  to 
soften  ;  two  tablespoons  of  butter ;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  one  can  of  oysters  ;  mix  all  well  together. — 3frs. 
Maria  Schotte,  Fayette,  Mo. 

MUSTARD  SAFCE  FOR   BOILED  FRESH  SAI.MOX. 

Two  cups  of  water,  two  tablespoons  of  batter  ;  let 
come  to  a  boil.  Mix  two  teaspoons  of  brown  flour  in  a 
little  cold  water,  two  tablespoons  of  prepared  mustard, 
one  halt  teaspoonful  of  salt;  cook  for  a  few  minutes. — 
3Irs.  Maria  ScJiotte,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CRA^fBERRY   SAICE. 

Put  cranberries  into  a  sauce-pan  ;  pour  boiling  water 
over  them,  and  set  on  the  front  of  the  stove.  Stir  in 
half  teaspoon  of  soda.  Let  stand  a  few  seconds,  and 
pour  off,  and  add  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
well.  Let  them  cook  till  done,  then  drain  and  run 
through  a  colander,  and  sweeten  to  taste  ;  the  water 
they  are  cooked  in  will  make  jelly,  by  adding  same 
weight  of  sugar  as  water  ;  it  will  jelly  in  a  few  seconds 
after  the  sugar  is  well  dissolved. — ^Irs.  Dr.  T.  J. 
Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 


30  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

CRA^fBERRY  SAUCE. 

Add  one  teacup  of  cold  water  to  a  quart  of  cran- 
berries, and  put  them  on  in  a  porcelain  kettle ;  after 
cooking  ten  minutes  add  two  heaping  cups  of  sugar,  and 
cook  about  ten  minutes  longer,  stirring  constantly  from 
the  time  the}^  are  put  on  ;  pour  out  into  a  bowl,  and 
when  cool  it  can  be  removed  as  jelly  from  a  mould. — 
Mrs.  H.  A.  Norris,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CRAWBERRY  SAUCE. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  cranberries,  and  let  them 
stand  over  night.  Then  to  one-half  gallon  of  berries 
add  one  pound  of  sugar  ;  boil  about  one-half  or  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. — Mrs.  E.  Major,  Fayette,  Mo. 


DIRECTIONS. 

All  poultry  should  be  carefully  picked,  and  the  liair 
singed  off  by  holding  the  bird  over  a  lighted  piece  of 
paper.  Take  care  in  removing  that  the  gall  bag  and  the 
gut  joining  the  gizzard  are  not  broken.  Open  the  giz- 
zard, first  take  out  the  contents,  and  detach  the  gall 
bladder  from  the  liver.  If  poultry  is  brought  from 
market  frozen,  do  not  hasten  to  thaw  it  out  before  it  is 
wanted  for  use  ;  till  then  put  in  a  cold  place,  and  let  it 
remain  frozen.  When  you  thaw  it  use  only  cold  water. 
Any  frozen  poultry,  or  meat,  thawed  in  warm  water, 
will  most  certainly  spoil.  Food  of  any  kind,  which  has 
been  frozen,  requires  a  much  longer  time  to  cook. 

ROAST    TURKEY. 

The  secret  of  having  a  good  roast  turkey  is  to  baste 
it  often,  and  to  cook  it  long  enough.  First,  then,  after 
the  turkey  is  dressed,  season  it  well,  sprinkling  pepper 
and  salt  on  the  inside  :  stutf  it,  and  tie  it  well  in  shape  ; 
sprinkle  it  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  It  is  well  to  allow  a 
turkey  to  remain  some  time  stuffed  before  cooking.  Pour 
a  little  boiling  water  into  the  bottom  of  the  dripping-pan. 
If  it  is  to  be  roasted,  do  not  have  the  oven  too  hot,  right 
at  first,  until  it  gets  well  heated  through,  then  gradually 
increase  the  heat.  The  excellence  of  the  turkey  de- 
pends much  upon  the  frequency  of  basting  it.  Make  a 
dressing  of  cold  bread  crumbs,  mixed  with  one-half 
pound  of  butter;  use  no  water  in  the  dressing,  and 
season  iDtll  with  pepper  and  salt.  After  stuflfing  the 
turkey  well  put  some  of  the  dressing  in  the  pan,  so  as 

31 


32  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

to  make  a  richer  gravy.  Put  in  the  pan  with  the  tnrkey 
the  giblets,  also,  to  which  add  a  little  more  than  a  pint 
of  water.  Oysters  may  be  added  to  the  dressing,  if 
preferred.  A  turkey  weighing  fourteen  pounds  should 
be  cooked  fou7'  hours. — Mrs.  31.  Heudrlx. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

After  the  turkej  is  dressed,  season  it  well,  sprinkling 
pepper  and  salt  on  the  inside.  Put  the  turkey  in  a 
large  meat  pan,  almost  half  full  of  water.  Let  cook 
about  two  hours,  turning  occasionally.  Then  take  it 
from  the  stove  and  stuff  it  with  dressing,  prepared  as 
above.  A  little  sage  is  an  impiovement.  Sprinkle 
well  with  pei)per,  salt,  and  Hour.  Place  it  in  the  oven 
and  cook  about  two  hours.  If  dinner  is  to  be  served  at 
one  o'clock,  the  turkey  should  be  put  on  to  cook  at 
nine  o'clock. — 3£rs.  Elizabeth  3fajoi\  Fayette,  Mo. 

BAKED  CTUCKEX. 

If  the  chickens  are  young  boil  about  twenty  minutes. 
Prepare  the  dressing  the  same  as  for  turkey,  and  bake 
in  the  same  manner.  Slice  two  hard  boiled  eggs  in  the 
gravy. — 3Irs.  31.  Bridges,  Fayette,  3Io. 

FRIED  CHICKED. 

Clean,  wash,  and  cut  to  pieces  a  couple  of  spring 
chickens  ;  soak  in  salt  water  more  than  one  hour,  wipe 
dry,  season  with  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Then 
fry  in  hot  lard,  until  each  piece  is  a  nice  brown  on  both 
sides.  Take  up,  drain,  and  set  aside  in  a  hot,  covered 
dish.  Pour  into  the  gravy  left  in  the  frying-pan- a  cup 
of  milk,  half  cream  is  better ;  thicken  with  heaping 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  cut  pas- 
try, rolled  thin  in  squares,  or  strips  ;  fry  a  nice  brown, 
and  lay  on  dish  with  chicken,  and  pour  gravy  over  all. 
Serve. — Mrs.  J.  Keyser. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS.  33 

SMOTHERED    CHICKEX. 

For  smothered  chicken,  the  fowl  must  be  split  down 
the  back,  washed,  and  wiped  dry.  Lay  it  breast  up- 
ward in  baking  pan  ;  pour  over  it  a  ]3int  and  a  half  of 
boiling  water,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  cover  with  another  pan  that 
fits  exactly.  Cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  then  baste 
plentifully  with  the  butter  water  in  the  pau  ;  cover,  and 
leave  about  twenty  minutes.  Baste  again,  and  once 
more  in  another  quarter  of  an  hour.  An  hour  and  a 
quarter  is  long  enough  for  a  3^oung  fowl.  Baste  the 
last  time  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  cover,  and 
leave  in  the  oven  about  ten  minutes  longer.  It  should 
be  of  a  tine  yellow  brown  all  over,  not  crisped  any- 
where. Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  tables]30onful  of 
browned  tiour,  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  The  Hour 
should  first  be  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  or  water,  and 
rubbed  smooth. — Ilrs.  Jacob  Keyser,  Fayette,  Mo. 

PRAIRIE  CmCKEXS— STEAMED  OR  BAKED. 

Stuff  them,  after  cleaning,  with  a  dressing  of  bread 
crumbs,  and  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  mixed 
with  melted  butter.  Sage,  onion,  or  summer  savorj^ 
may  be  added,  if  liked.  Secure  the  fowl  firmly  Avitli  a 
needle  and  twine.  Steam  in  a  steamer  until  tender; 
then  remove  to  a  dripping-pan  ;  dredge  with  fiour,  pep- 
per, and  salt,  and  brown  delicately  in  tlie  oven.  Baste 
with  melted  butter ;  garnisli  with  parsley,  and  lumps 
of  currant  jell}^  Prairie  fowls  may  be  stewed,  or 
broiled,  the  same  as  other  birds. — From  Mrs.  Owens'' 
Coolc  BooTi. 

ROAST  DICKS. 

Ducks  should  be  cooked,  and  the  dressing  the  same 
as  chicken  or  turkey.  If  the  ducks  are  tender,  they 
will  not  require  more  than  an  hour  and  a  half  to  roast. 
The  giblets  should  be  chopped  fine,  and  added  to  the 
gravy,  with  a  chopped  shallet,  and  a  spoonful  of  browned 
flour. 


34  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

QUAItS  WITH  TOAST. 

After  dressing,  split  the  quails  down  the  back  ;  le.t 
them  soak  in  salt  water  half  an  hour,  or  more,  then  put 
in  the  meat  pan.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  ; 
about  a  pint  of  water  ;  baste  often  ;  toast  bread,  cut  in 
squares,  a  light  brown  ;  lay  toast  on  meat  dish.  Place 
the  quails,  after  they  have  cooked,  and  are  browned 
nicely,  on  the  toast,  and  pour  gravy  over  all. 

CHICKEX  PIE. 

First  cut  the  chicken  up,  and  stew  in  a  sauce-pan 
until  almost,  or  quite  done;  then  have  a  deep  dish,  or 
pan,  lined  with  pastry  ;  put  in  a  layer  of  chicken,  sea- 
soned with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ,  then  cut  strips  of 
pastry,  and  lay  across  ;  put  another  layer  of  chicken, 
seasoned  ;  put  a  cover  of  pastry,  notched,  round  the 
edges,  and  cut  a  cross  in  the  center. — Mrs.  E.  3Iajor, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

€HICKEX  OR  TEAL.  CROQUETTES. 

Two  cups  of  cold  meat,  minced  very  tine,  add  a  cup  of 
hot  boiled  rice,  mix  together  with  a  fork  ;  beat  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  soft  (not  melted) 
butter  to  a  smooth  paste  ;  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  mix  well  with  the  meat  and 
rice,  and  mould  into  croquettes.  Beat  two  eggs,  and 
pour  over  the  croquettes,  then  roll  them  in  cracker 
dust,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  until  a  light 
brown,  in  lard,  which  should  be  quite  hot,  and  deep 
enough  to  cover  them.  Serve  with  French  peas,  heap- 
ing the  peas  in  the  center  of  the  platter,  and  arranging 
the  croquettes  around  the  edge. — Miss  Jos epliine  Har- 
rison., Denver,  Col. 

QIJENXEI.S  OR  CROQUETTES. 

This  recipe  can  be  used  for  only  cold  meat,  but  is  nice 
when  made  from  turkey  or  chicken,  chopped  very  fine. 
Pick  out  all  little  pieces  of  bone  or  gristle.     Add  one 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS,  36 

sweet-bread,  which  has  been  parboiled,  season  with  nut- 
meg, cinnamon,  red  pepper,  and  salt.  Roll  out  crackers 
into  dust,  then  work  into  the  mixture  until  you  can 
mould  into  rolls  ;  then  fry  like  crullers. — Mrs.  J.  Kin- 
nej/^  Franklin,  Mo. 

CIIICKEX    C'ROUIIETTKS. 

(For  one  dozen  medium  sized  croquettes.)  Boil  your 
chicken  tender,  and  chop  it  very  fine.  Add  one  set  of 
brains,  previously  boiled  in  salted  water.  Two  minutes 
is  long  enough  for  the  brains  to  boil,  then  throw  them 
right  in  the  cold  water,  and  skin  them,  one -half  cup 
suet,  chopped  fine,  one-half  small  onion,  and  two  sprigs 
of  parsley,  chopped  together  very  fine,  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  mix  all  together,  and  add  enough  cream  to  shape 
into  croquettes.  Be  careful  not  to  have  it  too  soft.  If 
you  mould  them  pear  shape,  add  a  clove  in  one  end, 
and  a  small  sprig  of  parsley  in  the  other.  This  is  done 
after  they  are  cooked.  They  must  be  rolled  in  eggs  or 
cracker  crumbs,  and  fried  in  boiling  lard.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  Lizzie  Findley,,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


^SAUBS*StSlDi*l)lSHES5a> 


Boil  a  tender  chicken,  and  when  cold  separate  the 
meat  from  the  bone.  Cut  it  into  little  square  blocks,  or 
dice ;  do  not  mince  it.  Cut  white,  tender  stalks  of 
celery  into  a  bowl,  three-quarters  inch  length,  then  stir 
them  well  together.  Make  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  beaten  thoroughly,  one  level  teaspoon  salt, 
one  of  pepper,  two  of  white  sugar,  two  teaspoons  pre- 
pared mustard,  one  tablespoon  butter  ;  stir  in  the  mix- 
ture four  tablespoons  best  vinegar,  put  dressing  into  a 
stew-pan,  set  it  into  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  and  stir  con- 
stantly, till  it  thickens  ;  set  away,  and  when  cold  mix  it 
with  the  celery  and  chicken,  leaving  a  portion  of  the 
sauce  to  pour  over  the  top.  Stick  a  little  bouquet  of 
celery  leaves  in  the  center  of  the  salad  ;  then  a  row 
around  it. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Williams,  Macon  City,  Mo. 

CHICKEN  SAIiAD. 

Take  a  pair  of  fowls,  boil  them,  (saving  the  water  for 
soup  next  day.)  When  entirely  cold,  remove  all  the 
skin  and  fat,  and  disjoint  them  ;  cut  the  meat  from  the 
bones,  in  very  small  pieces.  Wash  and  split  two  large 
heads  of  celery  ;  put  the  white  part  into  pieces  ;  mix 
chicken  and  celery  together,  and  chop  line  with  hash 
knife.  For  the  dressing,  take  eight  hard  boiled  eggs, 
(I  use  only  the  yolks,)  add  to  the  eggs  a  teaspoon  of 
fine  salt,  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one-half  gill  made  mus- 
tard, one  and  one-half  wine-glass  French  vinegar  ;  skim 
off  the  grease  from  the  top  of  the  water  in  which  the 
chickens  have  been  boiled.  Use  enough  of  this  to  moisten 
36 


SALADS  AND  SIDE  DISHES.  37 

well.  We  prefer  it  ro  olive  or  sweet  oil.  Mix  all  these 
ingredients  thoroughly,  stirring  them  a  long  time  till 
quite  smooth.  After  you  pour  it  on  the  chicken  and 
celery  mix  the  whole  well  together  with  a  silver  fork. — 
3Irs.  Dr.  Tom.  Smitli,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CHICKEN  SAI.AI>. 

The   meat   of  two   cold   boiled   chickens,  the   same 
bulk   of  chopped   celery,  yolks   of  three   hard  boiled 
eggs,  yolks   of    two    raw   eggs   Avell    beaten,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  mustard,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
white  sngar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  black  and  red  pep- 
per, four  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil,  one  teacup  vinegar, 
and   one    of   cream,   one    medium    sized   Irish   potato, 
mashed,  and  put  through  a  sieve.     Cut  the  meat  and 
celery  into  dice,  about  three-eights  of  an  inch  square, 
mix  them,  sprinkle  with  dry  salt,  toss  up  lightly  with  a 
fork,  and  put  in  a  cool   place  while  you  prepare  the 
dressing.     Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  powder,  add 
the   pepper,    salt,    sugar,    mustard,    and    potato,    then 
the   oil,  stirring  well,  and   adding   only   a   little   at   a 
time.     Next    beat    the    raw    eggs   into    the    dressing, 
and   lastly,  the   vinegar.     Put  the   dressing  in  a  cool 
place  until  you  are  ready  to  use  the  salad,  and  then  stir 
the  cream  into  the  dressing,  pour  over  the  meat  and 
celery,  mixing  thoroughly,  and  serve  at  once.     Garnish 
your  salad  dish  with  parsley,  lettuce,  or  celery  leaves. 
This  will  make  sufficient  salad  for  sixteen  persons.— 
Mrs.  John  Shafrotli,  Denter,  Col. 

POTATO  SAIvAl>. 

Takf  four  or  five  good  sized  boiled  potatoes,  mash, 
and  add  one-half  teacup  of  cream,  beat  until  light ;  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  celery  seed,  and  one  small  onion, 
chopped  fine.  Put  one  teacup  of  vinegar  in  sauce-pan, 
and  when  nearly  to  boiling  point  stir  two  well  beaten 
eggs.     Stir  constantly  until  it  thickens,  and  pour  over 


38  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

the  potatoes,  beating  all  well  together.  Put  in  salad 
dish,  and  around  the  edge  lay  celery  leaves,  or  parsley. 
— 3£rs.  W.  C.  Arline,  Fayette,  Mo. 

POTATO  SAIiAD. 

Boil  in  salt  water  three  large  potatoes,  until  thor- 
oughly done.  Beat  lightly  four  eggs,  add  one  cup  of 
vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
mustard,  one  celery  seed.  Butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut ; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  this  mixture  on  the  stove, 
and  stir  constantly,  till  it  thickens.  Then  slice  the 
potatoes',  and  put  in  layers,  with  the  dressing. — Mrs. 
Carrie  Morrison.,  Fayette.,  Mo. 

SAI.MOX  SAIiAD. 

Nine  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  can  of  salmon;  chop 
whites  of  eggs  and  salmon  together,  very  line  ;  with  a 
fork  cut  yolks  of  eggs  smooth,  and  mix  well  with  oil 
from  salmon,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  of  pepper,  one  of 
mustard,  one  small  cup  of  vinegar ;  pour  this  over  the 
chopped  salmon,  and  mix  well. — Mrs.  L.  S.  Frosser, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

SAI.MO:Sf  SAIiAD. 

One  can  of  salmon,  fresh  ;  four  bunches  of  celery ; 
chop  as  for  c?iicken  salad  ;  mix  with  the  salmon,  and 
pour  the  dressing  over  it.  Dressing. — Take  half  a 
pint  of  vinegar,  and  let  it  get  hot,  then  beat  up  two 
eggs,  half  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  and  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter ;  stir  this 
into  the  vinegar,  and  let  boil  until  it  thickens,  then  pour 
over  the  salad  ;  garnish  with  the  leaves  of  celer3^ — 3frs. 
O.  Bower,  Fayette,  Mo. 

OYSTER  SAIiAD. 

Pour  off  the  liquor  of  one  can  of  oysters,  chop  the 
oysters  flne,  add  six  crackers  ;  roll  them  with  rolling- 
pin,  add  chopped  pickle  and  celery  seed  to  taste  ;  then 


SALADS  AND  SIDE  DISHES.  39 

pour  over  all  a  sauce  made  of  two  eggs,  tablespoon  of 
mustard,  two  spoons  of  butter,  a  little  sugar  and  salt, 
and  one-half  cup  of  good  vinegar  ;  thicken  this  over  the 
fire  before  adding  to  the  oysters,  and  best  to  let  it  cool. 
I  think  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  tine,  is  an  improve- 
ment. Some  use  the  oyster  liquor,  and  add  more  crack- 
ers, but  I  like  it  best  without. — 3Irs.  M.  E.  Jackson, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

OYSTER  S AliAD. 

One  can  cove  oysters,  six  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  cup 
chow-chow,  or  chopped  pickle,  vinegar,  mustard  seed, 
celery  seed ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Mrs.  Lizzie 
FlsTier.  Fayette,  Mo. 

I.OBSTER    SAI.AD. 

Two  lobsters,  picked  line,  four  heads  of  fresh  lettuce, 
cut  fine  ;  put  in  a  dish  in  layers,  with  the  lobsters  ;  boil 
your  eggs,  mash  the  yolks,  add  three  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  cayenne  pej)per 
and  salt ;  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  caps  of  vine- 
gar ;  heat  together,  and  pour  over  when  served. 

SUMMER   BREAKFAST  SAI^AD. 

Prepare  two  chickens  as  you  would  for  salad  (using 
the  heart,  or  liver.)  Stir  in  the  above  two  strained  Irish 
potatoes,  and  make  a  dressing  in  this  way  :  Take  the 
yolks  of  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  the  white  of  one, 
(chopped  fine.)  Rub  to  a  smooth  paste,  with  salt,  to 
taste,  one-fourth  teacup  of  melted  butter,  a  little  pepper 
and  mustard.  (A  few  spices  is  an  improvement.)  Put 
one-half  cup  of  vinegar  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  when  ready 
to  boil,  stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs,  stirring  constantly, 
until  thick.  Mix  this  with  the  above,  thoroughly,  j)ack 
in  a  bowl,  and  set  on  ice.  When  ready  to  turn  out 
cover  with  one  sliced  lemon,  and  the  juice  of  one. — Mrs. 
Charlie  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 


40  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

OYSTERS— A  liA  CHAMBORD. 

One-half  head  of  cabbage,  chopped  line  ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Take  two 
whole  eggs,  or  tlie  yolks  of  tiiree,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  fonr  of  vinegar,  saltspoon  of  salt,  same  of  mus- 
tard. Put  this  in  a  sance-pan.  set  it  on  the  lire,  stirring 
constantly,  until  it  thiclvens  ;  add  a  piece  of  butter,  size 
of  a  walnut.  Let  it  get  perfectly  cold  before  putting  on 
the  cabbage.  Mix  well  with  a  fork,  and  form  in  a  loaf 
shape.  This  can  all  be  prepared  several  hours  before 
dinner.  Wlinn  leady  to  serve  take  large  OA^sters, 
nicely  dried,  and  bi-eaded,  and  fr}^  in  boiling  lard. 
Have  a  large  platter,  very  warm.  In  the  center  place  a 
thickly  folded  napkin,  and  in  it  place  your  loaf  of 
slaw,  pntting  on  the  top  of  it  some  fresh  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley, and  aronnd  it  bard  boiled  eggs  ;  cut  in  dice.  And 
in  the  dish,  all  around  it,  the  fried  oysters. — 3Irs.  J.  Ji. 
Findley^  St.  Louis.,  Mo. 

POMMES— A  I.A  GRxiTIX. 

Have  some  j)otatoes  boiled  in  their  jackets,  when 
cold,  peel  and  cut  in  small  dice,  or  marble  shape  ;  put 
them  in  a  pudding  dish.  Put  a  pint  of  rich  milk  on  the 
lire  ;  when  at  the  boiling  point,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  dissolved  in  a  little  millv,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a 
cn^^ful  of  grated  cheese.  Let  all  cook  about  iive  min- 
utes ;  pour  this  mixture  over  the  potatoes,  and  bake  in 
oven  until  brown  on  top. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Findley^  St. 
Louis,  Mo. 

CHICKEX    CHEESE. 

Boil  two  chickens  till  tender,  take  out  all  the  bones, 
and  chop  the  meat  fine  ;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  butter  ;  pour  in  enough  of  the  liquor  they  are 
boiled  in  to  make  it  moist.  Mould  in  any  shape  you 
choose.  When  cold  turn  out,  and  cut  into  slices.  This 
is  especially  nice  for  lunch. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Norris,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 


SALADS  AXD  SIDE  DISHES.  41 

A   FAVORITE  I>ISII. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  fresh  milk,  one 
cup  dry  cheese,  broken  in  small  pieces,  three  eggs,  well 
beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  A  very  little  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and 
stirred  in  the  milk.  Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk ; 
beat  into  these  the  eggs,  the  butter,  peeper  and  salt,  and 
then  the  cheese.  Butter  a  neat  baking  dish,  pour  the 
pudding  into  it,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  until  brown. 
Serve  immediately. — Miss  Lizzette  Herndon,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

SL.AW. 

One  large  head  of  cabbage,  half  teacup  of  sugar,  four 
eggs,  well  beaten,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  of  celery 
seed,  half  teaspoon  of  turmeric.  Mix  this  all  well,  then 
have  ready  one  pint  of  Vinegar,  pour  it  on  the  season- 
ing, and  let  it  boil  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  cream, 
then  pour  hot  over  cabbage  ;  seasoned  with  salt,  and 
pepper, — Mrs.  Solon  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 

HOT    SLAW. 

Four  eggs,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  Coleman's 
mustard,  one  teaspoon  of  celery  seed,  a  scant  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  turmeric,  half  cup  of  white  sugar,  and  a 
small  teacup  half  full  of  cream,  or  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  melted  ;  beat  the  eggs  till  light,  then  mix  in  the 
other  ingredients  ;  then  pour  in  slowly,  while  stirring  a 
pint  of  boiling  vinegar ;  then  return  this  to  the  fire  ; 
keep  stirring  well  till  it  is  the  consistency  of  cream. 
Have  the  cabbage  chopped  fine,  and  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper.  When  the  dressing  is  done  add  at  once  to 
the  cabbage,  mix  well,  and  keep  closely  covered. — 3£rs. 
Dr.  T.  J.  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 


^TICmEIJ 


^    ■:::.::   ..  : ;  :   -^, 


MASHED  POTATOES. 

Pare  and  boil  the  potatoes  ;  when  done,  drain  off  the 
water ;  let  them  stand  a  minute  in  the  stove  to  let  all 
the  steam  escape;  add  the  salt  and  butter,  and  mash 
them  free  from  lumps  ;  add  sweet  cream,  or  milk  ;  beat 
like  cake  batter,  the  longer  the  better,  until  nice  and 
light ;  serve  in  a  covered  dish. 

POTATO    CAKES. 

Make  cold  mashed  potatoes  into  fiat  cakes,  flour  them, 

and  fry  in  jiart  lard  and  part  butter,  until  they  are  a 

light  brown. 

TO   BOIIi  5fEW  POTATOES. 

Scrape  the  skins  from  new  j)otatoes,  and  lay  them  in 
cold  water  for  a  while,  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  and 
cover  them  with  water  ;  cover  them,  and  boil  for  about 
half  an  hour  ;  try  one,  and  if  done,  drain  the  water  off; 
make  a  sauce  of  hot  milk,  thickened  with  flour,  and 
seasoned  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  ;  pour  over  the 
potatoes,  and  serve  hot. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

Pare,  and  cut  into  thin  slices,  on  a  slaw  cutter,  four 
large  potatoes  (new  are  best,)  let  stand  in  ice  cold  salt 
water  while  breakfast  is  cooking  ;  take  a  handful  of 
the  potatoes,  squeeze  the  water  from  them,  and  dry  in  a 
napkin  ;  separate  the  slices,  and  drop  a  handful  at  a 
time  into  a  skillet  of  boiling  lard,  taking  care  that 
they  do  not  strike  together,  stir  with  a  fork  till  they  are 
a  light  brown  color,  take  out  with  a  wire  spoon,  drain 
well,  and  serve  in  an  open  dish.  They  are  very  nice 
served  cold. 

42 


VEGETABLES.  43 


TO  BAKE  POTATOES. 

The  potatoes  must  be  of  equal  size.  Put  them  into  a 
hot  oven,  and  bake  until  tender.  It  requires  about  an 
hour  to  bake  a  large  potato.  Serve  immediately  ;  if 
left  to  stand  they  are  not  good. 

FRIE1>  POTATOES. 

Peel,  and  cut  the  potatoes  in  thin  slices,  as  nearly  the 
same  size  as  possible  ;  put  into  a  frying  pan  some  lard, 
or  butter,  and  when  quite  hot  put  in  the  potatoes,  fry 
on  both  sides  until  they  are  a  nice  brown.  AVhen  they 
are  crisp,  and  done,  take  them  up;  place  them  on  a 
cloth  before  the  fire  to  drain  the  grease  from  them,  and 
serve  very  hot,  after  sprinkling  with  salt. 

POTATOES  BAKED  IVITH  BEEF. 
Pare  potatoes  of  equal  size,   and  put  them  into  the 
oven  in  the  same  pan  in  which  the  beef  is  baked.     In 
basting  the  beef  the  potatoes  should  be  basted  also. 
Serve  them  around  the  beef. 

POTATO  CROQIETTES. 
Season  cold  mashed  potatoes  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg.  Beat  to  a  cream,  and  to  every  cup  of  potato 
put  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Bind  with  two  or 
three  beaten  eggs,  and  add  some  minced  parsley.  Roll 
into  oval  balls,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  or  drippings.  Pile  in  a 
pyramid  on  a  flat  dish,  and  serve. 

POTATO  PUFFS. 
To  two  cups  mashed  potatoes  put  two  spoons  melted 
butter  ;  beat  until  creamy.  Then  add  two  well  beaten 
eggs,  and  a  cup  of  cream,  or  milk,  a  little  salt ;  beat 
well  ;  pour  into  a  baking  dish,  spread  butter  over  the 
top,  and  bake  quickly,  a  delicate  brown. 

BAKED   SWEET  POTATOES. 
Take   large   potatoes  and   put  them   on    to   boil,    or 
steam  ;  when  nearly  done,  take  out  and  peel ;  slice  not 


44  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

quite  half  an  inch  thick.  Put  in  a  baking  pan,  with  a 
very  little  water;  sprinkle  white  sugar  thickly  over 
them,  and  spread  each  slice  with  butter ;  set  them  in 
the  stove  to  brown.  A  longer  time  is  required  for  cook- 
ing sweet  potatoes  than  Irish  potatoes. 

TO  BAKE   SWEET  POTATOES. 

Select  those  that  are  nearly  of  a  size,  not  too  large; 
wash  them,  and  put  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  until  done; 
it  requires  about  an  hour  to  bake  a  medium  sized 
potato. 

BAKED   TOMATOES. 

Peel  the  tomatoes  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
them,  until  the  skin  will  slip,  cut  out  the  stem  end,  set 
them  in  a  baking  pan  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  and  sugar;  sprinkle  over  them  a  good 
handful  of  bread  crumbs  ;  bake  slowly  for  forty-five 
minutes. 


The  following  recipe  is  given  by  Mrs.  Martha  Jack- 
son, by  which  tomatoes  may  be  so  preserved  that  they 
may  be  sliced  and  served  as  fresh  tomatoes  : 

Take  the  imperfect  tomatoes,  put  in  a  tin  or  porcelain 
kettle,  let  come  to  a  boil,  mash  well,  run  through  a 
colander,  then  take  the  juice,  place  on  the  fire,  put  in 
whole  tomatoes,  if  not  too  large,  if  so,  cut  in  half ;  let 
them  get  entirely  heated,  put  in  cans  ;  seal  while  hot. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

Select  enough  large,  smootli  tomatoes,  to  fill  a  baking 
dish  ;  cut  a  piece  from  the  top  of  each,  scoop  out  the 
pulp,  without  breaking  the  skin  ;  make  a  dressing  by 
adding  to  pulp  bits  of  cold  beef,  or  mutton,  chopped 
fine,  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  onion ;  after  put- 
ting sugar,  and  small  piece  of  butter  in  the  skins,  fill 
them  with  this  dressing,  replace  the  tops,  and  bake 
until  done. — 3Irs.  R.  P.  Williams,  Fayette,  Mo. 


VEGETABLES.  45 


FRICASSEED  CHICKEIT. 

Cut  fresh  corn  from  tlie  cob,  put  in  a  pot,  and  just 
cover  with  boiling  water  ;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour  ;  mix 
in  a  half  pint  of  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  l)utter.  one  of 
sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  pepper,  and  let  boil  a  few 
minutes. 

GREEX  CORX  PI  DDIXG. 

One  dozen  ears  of  green  corn,  grated  from  the  rob,  or 
sliced  off,  then  take  the  knife  and  scrape  the  cob  for  the 
sweetest  part  of  the  corn ;  beat  up  well  three  eggs,  add 
a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  half  cup  of  butter,  one  spoonful  of 
sugar,  pepper,  and  salt,  stir  in  the  corn,  bake  in  a  pud- 
ding pan,  in  a  well  heated  oven. — MiS.  J.  D.  Tolson. 

TO  BOIIi  CORX  03f   THE  COB. 

The  corn  is  boiled  in  the  husks,  which  imparts  sweet- 
ness and  havor,  and  keeps  it  moist  and  tender.  The 
unhusked  corn  is  put  into  salted  boiling  water,  and 
when  done  drain  well.  Remove  the  husks  before  send- 
ing to  the  table. 

PEAS. 

First  boil  the  pods,  which  are  sweet  and  full  of  flavor, 
in  a  little  water  ;  skim  them  out,  and  add  the  peas, 
which  boil  until  tender;  add  then  a  little  butter,  cream, 
pepiDer,  and  salt.     Time  to  cook,  about  half  an  hour. 

CABBAGE  TO  BOII^. 

Cabbage  is  best  boiled,  and  served  with  corned  beef; 
otherwise  boil  a  piece  of  pork  with  it.  Always  boil 
with  it  a  piece  of  red  pepper.  Remove  the  outside  dam- 
aged leaves,  and  cut  the  cabbage  into  halves,  or,  if  very 
large,  into  quarters,  so  as  to  better  cook  the  inside  stalk  ; 
put  it  into  the  boiling  water,  with  the  corned  beef,  or 
pork,  and  the  small  red  pepper.  It  will  take  from  half  to 
three-quartei  s  of  an  hour  to  be  well  cooked.  Drain  the 
cabbage  well,  serving  it  with  meat,  in  the  center  of  the 
dish. 


46  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

CABBAGE    PUDDIXO. 

Chop  cabbage,  and  boil  till  tender,  in  clear  water, 
with  salt  enough  to  season  ;  when  done  drain  off  the 
water,  put  in  a  pudding  dish  a  layer  of  bread  and  cab- 
bage, alternately ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
cream,  or  rich  milk;  put  in  oven,  and  bake  to  a  light 
brown.  This  makes  a  most  delicious  and  delicate  dish 
of  cabbage. — Miss  Nannie  Keyser,  Fayette,^  Mo. 

TO  COOK   CABBAGE   aUICKI.A\ 

Cut  up  your  cabbage  tolerably  line,  then  put  it  in 
real  hot  lard;  then  cover  with  water,  and  let  boil ;  sea- 
son with  pepper,  and  salt.  Before  serving  stir  in  a 
little  bit  of  soda,  and  a  teaspoon  of  liour. — Mrs.  W.  F. 
Tieman.,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SOUTHERX  CABBAGE. 

Scald  cabbage  in  salt  water  until  tender;  drain,  and 
just  cover  with  cream  ;  when  cream  boils,  sprinkle  a 
tablespoon  of  Hour;  then  stir  in  an  egg  well  beaten,  and 
two  or  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  ;  add  all  of  the  butter 
you  can  spare,  only  allow  it  to  boil  an  instant  after  the 
Q^g  is  in,  and  as  you  take  it  from  the  stove  pour  in  half 
a  teacup  of  vinegar,  more  or  less,  according  to  strength, 
and  a  little  pepper. — Mrs.  John  Tippett,  Keytesmlle, 
Mo. 

BOIEED    CABBAGE. 

Pick  a  nice  firm  head ;  chop  as  for  slaw  ;  put  in  a 
stew-pan,  and  pour  on  boiling  water,  but  do  not  let  the 
water  come  to  the  top  of  cabbage  ;  put  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  cover  closel}/  ;  boil  till  tender,  then  drain  off 
all  the  water,  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two 
of  cream,  a  little  pepper  ;  return  to  the  oven,  and  cook 
a  few  moments  longer. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Norris,  Fayette,  Mo. 

FRIED   CABBAGE. 

Slice  thin,  or  chop  fine;  put  into  a  frying-pan,  with 
some  salt  pork  gravy,  and  a  little  water;  season  with 


VEGETABLES.  47 


salt  and  pepper  ;  cover  closely ;  cook  slowly  on  top  of 
stove.     When  done  add  lialf  cup  of  vinegar,  if  liked. 

SOLTIIKRN  RICE. 

To  one  teacup  of  rice  put  one  quart  of  water,  and  one 
spoonful  of  salt ;  cook  until  the  grains  are  done,  but  not 
soft,  or  broken,  which  will  take  about  twenty  minutes  ; 
drain  off  all  the  water,  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove. 
Keep  it  tightly  covered,  and  do  not  stir  at  any  time,  as 
stirring  breaks  the  grains,  and  makes  it  sticky.  If 
properly  cooked  when  turned  into  the  dish,  each  grain 
will  be  whole,  and  will  not  stick  together ;  it  is  much 
better  than  when  all  in  a  musli. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Brealcer, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

I.IMA  BEAXS. 

Boil  about  an  hour  ;  p^ur  the  water  off;  season  with 
salt,  pepi)er,  and  butter;  send  to  the  table  hot.  Dried 
Lima  beans  must  be  soaked  over  night,  and  boiled  two 
hours,  or  until  they  are  soft,  and  should  have  some 
cream  added  to  the  dressing. 

BAKED  PORK  AXD  BEANf!i. 

Boil  with  one  quart  of  dry  beans  a  pound  of  salt 
pork.  Put  them  on  in  cold  water  and  boil  until  beans 
are  tender,  but  not  mashed.  Place  the  beans  in  a 
baking  dish  ;  lay  the  pork  in  the  center,  on  top  of 
beans.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven  till  all  are  nicely  browned. 

MACAROXI. 

Bake  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  until  tender. 

To  two  well-beaten  eggs  add  a  little  more  than  a  pint  of 

sweet  milk,  tablespoonful  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a  quarter 

of  a  pound  grated  cheese.   Pour  over  the  macaroni,  and 

stir  all  well  together.     Put  into  a  baking  dish,  and  bake 

until  brown. 

SICCOTASII. 

One  quart  of  Lima  beans,  put  on  in  two  quarts  of  cold 
water,  while  boiling  cut  the  corn  from  a  dozen  ears, 


48  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

and  boil  cobs  for  a  few  minutes  with  the  beans  ;  when 
the  beans  are  done  stir  the  corn  with  the  beans,  and  add 
one  cup  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  the  corn 
should  cook  twenty  minutes.  A  small  piece  of  salt 
pork,  cooked  with  the  beans,  is  a  great  improvement. 

BOII.£I>  BEETS. 

Wash,  without  breaking  the  skin;  put  to  cook  in 
boiling  water;  boil  till  done.  Slice  and  season  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Do  not  put  on  the  vinegar,  as 
many  prefer  them  without. 

TURNIPS. 

Peel,  and  cut  in  slices  ;  boil  with  a  piece  of  fresh 
pork,  or  beef.  When  done  take  out  with  a  wire  spoon, 
mash  well,  and  season  with  salt,  and  pepper. 

PARSNIPS. 

Scrape  them  clean,  cut  in  slices,  lengthwise,  and  boil 
with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork  in  a  stew-pan,  or  skillet, 
till  tender.     Serve  in  a  vegetable  dish. 

\  EGETABI.E   OYSTER. 

Cut  into  small  pieces,  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  a 
short  time  ;  boil  until  done  ;  drain  the  water  off,  and 
pour  over  milk,  or  cream.  Season  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Get  the  stalks  of  equal  length  ;  tie  up ;  boil  in  salted 
water  about  half  an  hour;  lay  on  buttered  toast,  and 
pour  melted  butter  and  cream  over  it. 

BOII.ED   OaflOBfS. 

When  peeling  onions  keep  them  under  water,  and  all 
weeping  of  the  eyes  will  be  avoided.  Put  to  cook  in 
boiling  water.  Boil  a  few  minutes,  then  drain  off  the 
water,  put  on  more  water,  and  boil  again  ;  and  still  a 
third,  where  they  may  remain  till  tender.    This  renders 


VEGETABLES.  49 


them  mild  in  flavor.  When  the  last  water  is  poured  off, 
add  a  cup  of  milk,  and  seasoning  of  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Boil  up,  and  serve.  The  milk  helps  to  relieve 
them  of  their  offensiveness.  Onions  are  very  healthful, 
and  it  would  be  better  for  the  generality  of  people  if 
they  ate  them  oftener. — Mrs.  Owens-  Cook  Book. 

FRI£I>  EGG  PliA^fT. 

Pare,  and  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick ;  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  on  each  side,  and  press  down,  for  an  hour ; 
then  rinse  in  clear  water,  and  dry  well  with  a  towel ; 
dip  in  egg  and  rolled  cracker,  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

BOIIiED  CARROTS. 

Wash  and  scrape  well,  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an 
hour;  if  large,  split  them;  boil  until  tender;  butter 
well,  and  serve  hot. 

BOIIiED  HOMIIVY. 

Soak  over  night  in  cold  water  ;  next  day  put  it  into  a 
pot,  with  at  least  two  quarts  of  water  to  a  quart  of 
hominy,  and  boil  slowly  three  or  more  hours,  until 
soft ;  drain  in  a  colander,  and  stir  in  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt.  In  cold  weather  a  large  quantity  can  be  boiled, 
and  used  when  needed. 

TO  BOIIi  STRIXG  BEAXS. 

Put  a  piece  of  salt  pork,  or  bacon,  in  cold  water; 
when  it  boils,  skim ;  put  in  beans,  and  boil  about  two 
hours. 

SCAIiliOPEB    TOMATOES. 

Put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  a  layer  of  bread,  or 
cracker  crumbs,  seasoned  with  bits  of  butter ;  then  a 
layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  sugar,  if  desired ;  then  a  layer  of  crumbs,  and  so 
on  till  the  dish  is  full,  flnishingwith  the  crumbs.  Bake 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


50  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

PARS:RfIPS,  SAU  TED. 

Parboil  tliem,  after  cutting  lengthwise ;  place  in  a 
baking  dish,  with  sugar  and  butter — a  layer  of  the 
slices  ;  then  the  butter  and  sugar  ;  then  slices  ;  so  on 
until  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  in  water  enough  to  make  a 
syrup,  and  bake. — Hiss  Lou  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SAI.SIFY. 

Having  scraped  the  salsify  roots,  and  washed  them  in 
cold  water,  parboil  them  ;  then  take  them  out ;  drain 
them  ;  cut  them  into  large  pieces,  and  fry  them  in  butter. 
Salsify  is  frequently  stewed  slowly  till  quite  tender,  and 
then  served  up  with  melted  butter ;  or  it  may  be  first 
boiled,  then  grated,  and  made  into  cakes,  to  be  fried  in 
butter.  Salsif}^  must  not  be  left  exposed  to  the  air,  or 
it  will  turn  blackish. 

CAlTI^IFIiOWER. 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  and  put  the  cauliflower 
into  well  salted  boiling  water.  Be  careful  to  take  it  out 
as  soon  as  tender,  to  jDrevent  it  dropping  into  pieces. 
Make  in  a  saucepan  a  white  sauce,  in  this  way  :  Put 
butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^  into  the  saucepan,  and  when 
it  bubbles,  stir  in  a  scant  half  teacupful  of  flour ;  stir 
well  until  cooked,  then  add  two  teacupfuls  of  thin 
cream,  some  pepper  and  salt ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  until 
perfectly  smooth  ;  pour  the  sauce  over  the  cauliflower, 
and  serve. 


-»-'i',U!is", 


riH)i{j';.D.MUiA,i; 


o:fiKi.ETTi:. 

Five  eggs,  pint  of  sweet  milk,  four  tablespoons  of 
flour  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  tlie  yolks  of 
the  eggs  until  very  light,  then  add  pepper  and  salt. 
Take  from  the  pint  of  milk  a  teacupful,  into  it  stir  until 
smooth  the  four  tablespoons  of  flour  ;  stir  this  with  the 
other  milk  into  the  eggs,  and  lastly,  the  whites  beaten 
to  a  stiff"  froth.  Have  skillet  hot,  and  grease  well  with 
lard,  or  butter  ;  when  slightly  brown  turn  one  half  over 
the  other.  Serve  on  oval-shaped  meat  dish. — Mrs.  E. 
Major,  Fayette^  Mo. 

OMELETTE. 

For  a  small  family,  take  six  eggs,  beat  the  yellows 
and  whites  separately.  Put  the  eggs  together,  and 
beai  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  if 
you  like.  If  3^ou  have  cold  boiled  ham  at  any  time, 
chop  some  flne,  and  put  it  in  ;  it  makes  the  omelette 
very  nice.  Cook  in  a  stewpan  well  greased  with  butter. 
—Mrs.  E.  W.  Bedford. 

OMEEETTE. 

In  the  flrst  place,  be  sure  your  eggs  are  fresh,  or  you 
will  fail.  Break  them  into  an  earthen  dish,  and  beat 
just  enough  to  mix  the  whites  and  yolks  together 
nicely,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  milk,  or 
cream,  for  every  egg,  and  then  beat  thoroughl}^  as  you 
would  for  sponge  cake.  Have  your  pan  perfectly  dry, 
and  hot  enough  to  melt,  but  not  to  brown  your  butter  ; 
turn  in  your  omelette,  and  place  over  the  fire  at  once, 
but  be  careful  it  does  not  burn.  Take  a  thin-bladed 
knife  and  run  carefully  under  the  bottom,  to  let  what  is 

51 


52  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

not  cooked  get  below.  Do  not  cook  the  whole  mass 
solid,  or  you  will  have  it  hard  and  dry,  as  its  own  heat 
will  cook  it  some  time  after  it  is  taken  up ;  commence 
at  one  side  and  carefully  roll  over  and  over  until  the 
whole  is  in  a  roll.  Let  it  brown  a  nice  brown.  Turn 
out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve.  Do  not  put  on  a  grain  of 
salt  while  cooking,  or  it  will  be  tough  and  flat.  The 
butter,  if  well  salted,  will  make  it  salt  enough. — Mrs. 
L.  Coolc,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CHEESE  OMEIiETTE. 

Six  eggs,  one  cup  <>f  grated  cheese,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste ;  beat  all  together  about  one  minute.  Have  a 
bright,  smooth  frying-pan ;  let  it  heat  well,  and  put  in 
a  piece  of  fresh  butter,  size  of  half  an  e,gg  ;  now  pour  on 
your  beaten  eggs  ;  stir  from  one  side  to  the  other  with  a 
spoon,  until  they  are  set.  It  is  then  ready  to  serve. 
With  a  quick  movement  of  the  cake  lifter,  throw  one 
half  over  the  other,  then  slide  on  a  warm  platter,  and 
eat  while  hot. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Findley,  St.  Louis.,  Mo. 

SCRAMBIiED  EGGS. 

Six  eggs  beaten  hard  a  few  minutes  ;  a  good  pinch  of 
salt  and  pepper ;  a  half  teacup  of  rich  milk ;  a  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter;  have  your  skillet  quite  hot, 
and  well  greased  ;  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  begin  stir- 
ring at  once  ;  keep  stirring  well  from  the  bottom,  till  it 
is  well  set,  which  will  be  in  a  few  seconds,  then  empty 
into  a  warmed  dish,  and  keep  closely  covered.  It 
should  be  prepared  just  before  going  to  table. — Miss 
Lou  Smith.,  Fayette,  Mo. 

BAKED    EGGS. 

Put  a  little  butter  in  pan,  when  warm,  put  in  the  eggs, 
(be  careful  not  to  break  the  yolks,)  salt  and  pepper. 
Bake  in  the  oven  till  the  whites  are  hard. — Mrs.  Mum- 
power,  Fayette,  Mo. 


EGGS  AND  COOKED  GRAINS.  53 

POACHED  £OOS. 

Break  the  eggs  into  boiling  water,  and  sprinkle  salt 
over  them.  When  the  white  is  well  set,  take  them  out ; 
pour  over  a  little  melted  butter ;  season  with  pepper . 
Serve  on  buttered  toast,  if  you  prefer. 

SCRAMBL-ED  EGGS. 

Beat  six  or  eight  eggs  very  light ;  add  a  little  salt ; 
put  them  into  a  warm  frying-pan,  with  butter,  or  lard  ; 
stir  until  they  are  well  thickened,  but  not  hard;  season 
with  pepper. 

TO  FRY  EGGS. 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  ;  put  the  eggs 
in  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  the  yolks  ;  sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  as  soon  as  the  whites  are  set,  serve  on  a  hot 
dish.  The  butter  should  not  be  allowed  to  get  too  hot, 
and  only  a  couple  of  eggs  should  be  fried  at  a  time.  A 
small  frying-pan  should  be  used. 

TO  PREPARE  EGGS  FOR  lilJNCH. 

To  boil  the  eggs,  put  them  in  cold  water,  which  will 
prevent  them  bursting,  as  they  would  if  they  were  put 
in  hot  water  to  boil.  When  done  put  them  in  cold 
water,  so  the  shell  will  come  off  nicely.  Cut  them  in 
halves,  lengthwise ;  remove  the  yellows  ;  mash  them 
up,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  celery  seed  and 
a  little  vinegar.  Put  the  yellows  back  into  the  whites, 
and  put  the  halves  together.  You  have  a  very  pretty 
dish  if  you  will  tie  around  each  one  a  piece  of  narrow 
blue  ribbon. 

OYSTER  OMEIiETTE. 

Beat  six  eggs  to  a  thick  cream ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  have  ready  one  dozen  large  oysters  ;  cut  them 
in  half;  pour  the  eggs  in  a  pan,  with  hot  butter  in  it; 
drop  the  oysters  over  it  as  carefully  as  you  can  ;  fry  a 
light  brown,  and  serve  hot. 


54  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

STUFFED  FOGS. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard;  and  cut  them  in  two  ;  take  out 

carefully  the  yolks,  which  mash  well,  adding  a  little 

finely  minced  onion,  chopped  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Mash  also   double   the   quantity   of  bread,  which  has 

been  soaked  iu  milk  ;  mix  bread,  yolks,  etc.,  together  ; 

then  bind  them  with  a  little  raw  j^olk  of  egg ;  taste  to 

see  if  they  are  seasoned  properly.     Stuff  the  eggs  with 

the  mixture,  so  that  each  half  has  the  appearance  of 

containing  a  whole  round  yolk;  smooth  the  remainder 

of  the  mixture  on  the  bottom  of  a  pie  pan  ;  arrange  the 

halves  symmetrically  in  this  bed  ;  brown  a  little  in  the 

oven. 

TO   KEEP  EGGS. 

Put  a  two  inch  layer  of  salt  in  bottom  of  stone  jar ;  then 

a  layer  of  fresh  eggs,  small  end  down  ;  then  salt,  then 

eggs,  and  so  on  till  jar  is  full,  with  a  layer  of  salt  at 

top  ;  cover  and  put  in  a  cool  place,  but  not  where  they 

will  freeze.     This  is  a  simple,  easy,  and  inexpensive 

way,  and  has  been  tested  for  years. 

CRACKED   WHEAT. 

Rinse  thoroughly  with  cold  water;  two  teacups  of 
wheat ;  add  four  cups  of  cold  water  ;  place  the  pan  in  a 
pan  of  water,  and  cover  closely.  In  half  an  hour  or  so 
stir,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  it  steam  four  or  five  hours, 
stirring  once  or  twice.  Nice,  hot  or  cold,  for  breakfast. 
Serve  with  cream. 

OATMEAIi  PORRIDGE. 

To  three  parts  of  boiling  water  add  one  part  oatmeal. 

Cover  closely,  and  cook  slowly  for  half  hour.     Do  not 

stir  it  if  you  would  prevent  it  being  sticky.     Serve  with 

sugar  and  cream. 

HOMIXY. 

Wash  in  two  waters  one  cup  of  hominy  ;  then  stir  it 

into  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  and 

boil  sixty  minutes.     Be  careful  that  it  does  not  burn. 


EGGS  AM)  COOKED  GRAINS.  55 


HOMIWY  FRITTERS. 

One  egg,  one  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  one  quart  of  boiled  hominy,  a  pinch  of  salt ; 
roll  into  oval  balls,  witii  floured  hands  ;  dip  in  a  well- 
beaten  egg,  and  then  in  dried  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 

hot  lard. 

TO  COOK   IIOMLXY. 

To  one  quart  of  hominy  use  five  quarts  of  water  ; 
cook  slowly.  When  soft,  skim  out  into  a  crock,  and  set 
it  in  a  cool  place.  To  prepare  for  the  table,  to  one 
quart  of  cooked  hominy  use  one  spoonful  of  butter, 
or  lard,  that  has  been  heated.  Add  half  teacupful  of 
cream,  or  rich  milk  ;  salt  to  taste. 

OITCII  C  HEESE. 

Take,  a  crockful  of  clabbered  milk,  and  set  it  on  the 
stove  to  heat;  when  the  wliey  and  clabber  separate, 
put  it  into  a  jelly  bag,  and  hang  it  up  where  it  will 
drain  dry.     Season  ;  serve  with  cream. 


j®^ 


L.IOHT  BR£AD. 

One  quart  of  flour;  two  tablespoons  yeast;  one  small 
tablespoon  lard ;  one  teaspoon  salt ;  mix  up  with  cold 
water  and  knead  the  dough  well ;  when  the  dough  is 
risen  very  light,  knead  the  second  time,  and  make  into 
loaves  and  light  rolls,  and  let  rise  again.  Bake  one 
hour. — Mrs.  Dr.  Snelson,  St.  Joseph,  Mo. 

TO  MAKE  YEAST  AXD  I^IGHT  BREAD. 

Boil  two  or  three  small  potatoes;  mash  them;  add  a 
pint  of  flour,  and  scald  it  with  the  water  in  which  the 
potatoes  were  boiled ;  then  stir  to  a  stiff  batter,  and 
when  cool,  add  more  water,  until  thinner;  then  add 
your  baker's  yeast,  or  soak  a  cake  of  dry  yeast  and 
put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise ;  do  not  use  the  yeast  as 
soon  as  it  rises  to  the  top  of  the  bowl,  but  wait  until  it 
falls  again,  then  it  is  ready  for  use ;  one  cup  of  this 
yeast  will  be  sufiicient  to  make  a  pan  of  rolls  or  a  loaf 
of  bread.  You  can  either  keep  this  yeast  fresh  on  ice, 
or  make  it  into  dry  yeast-cakes,  hy  adding  enough 
cornmeal  to  make  stiff",  cool  and  cut  in  square  cakes ; 
dry  thoroughly,  then  put  in  a  sack  and  keep  in  a  dry 
place.  When  you  want  to  make  light  bread,  make  a 
sponge  over  night,  of  a  pint  or  more  flour,  with  luke- 
warm water,  and  add  one  or  two  cold  potatoes,  mashed 
fine,  add  either  a  cup  of  fresh  yeast  or  a  cake  of  dry 
yeast,  soaked ;  set  in  a  warm  place  and  let  rise.  The 
next  morning  early,  make  up  your  bread ;  take  a  quart 
or  more  flour,  teaspoon  of  salt,  tablespoon  of  lard,  and 
make  a  stiff"  dough  with  either  lukewarm  water  or  sweet 

56 


BREAD.  57 

milk  ;  knead  well  about  five  minutes  and  set  to  rise ;  as 
soon  as  light,  make  into  loaves  and  put  in  pans.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Tieman,  Fayette,  Mo. 

lilGHT  BR£AI>. 

To  two  quarts  of  flour,  add  two  tablespoons  of 
lard,  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  teacup  of  white  sugar, 
one  cofFeecup  of  yeast;  mix  with  lukewarm  water; 
knead  until  smooth.  Grease  a  large  earthen  bowl  well ; 
put  the  dough  in,  then  turn  it  over;  the  grease  on  the 
top  will  prevent  a  crust  forming  on  top ;  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  To  have  rolls  for  tea,  make  up  the  bread 
early  in  the  morning,  and  at  four  o'clock  make  out  the 
rolls.  (In  making  out  the  rolls  or  loaves,  never  add 
any  more  flour,  it  will  make  the  bread  tough).  Set  in 
some  warm  place  to  rise.  In  baking,  put  a  pan  of 
water  on  the  grate  to  keep  them  from  browning  too 
quickly  on  top. 

For  the  yeast,  take  about  three  good-sized  potatoes  ; 
peel,  and  boil  until  done;  take  out  of  the  water  and 
mash  until  smooth ;  mix  small  teacup  of  flour  with 
potatoes;  pour  the  water  in  which  the  potatoes  were 
boiled  into  this,  and  beat  until  smooth ;  put  over  the 
fire  and  cook  as  you  would  starch,  stirring  constantly  ; 
only  requires  a  few  minutes  to  cook.  Dissolve  a  cake 
of  National  yeast  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  into  the 
above  when  cold.  This  yeast  makes  better  bread  a  day 
or  two  after  it  is  made. — Mrs.  E.  Major,  Fayette,  Mo. 

ISAI.T-RISIX<a  BREAD. 

Take  one-half  teacup  of  sweet  milk;  let  it  come  to 
boiling  heat;  then  stir  in  meal  to  the  consistency  of 
mush ;  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night,  then 
make  a  stiif  batter  of  flour  and  warm  water  or  milk ; 
add  the  meal,  a  pinch  of  sugar  and  salt;  let  stand  in 
warm  water  until  it  rises ;  don't  have  the  water  too 
warm ;  make  your  bread  of  the  rising  and  warm  milk 


58  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

or  water  and  tablespoon  of  lard  and  a  little  salt ;  I 
always  take  the  same  quantity  of  milk  as  rising;  work 
well,  and  then  mold  in  pans.  Don't  bake  in  a  very 
hot  oven. — 3frs.  Hampton  L.  Watts,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SAI.T-RISIAG  BREAD. 

Over  night,  take  one  teacup  of  milk,  and  heat  to  boil- 
ing heat ;  stir  in  a  large  tablespoon  of  cornmeal,  set 
aside  till  morning,  and  pour  in  boiling  water  until  luke- 
warm, add  one  teaspoon  of  sugar  aud  pinch  of  salt; 
stir  in  tiour  until  it  makes  a  thick  batter,  and  set  in 
warm  place  to  rise;  take  two  quarts  of  tiour,  and  table- 
spoon of  lard,  teaspoon  of  salt,  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
teacup  sweet  milk  and  warm  water  sufficient  to  make 
dough  stiff  enough  to  mould  into  loaves ;  knead  well 
and  set  to  rise,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  warm  oven. — 
Mrs.  Laiikford  Cook,  Fayette,  Mo. 

BOSTON  BBOWX  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  cornmeal,  one  cup 
of  Graham  Hour,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  half  teaspoon  of  soda;  pour  the  batter  into 
a  covered  mold  and  set  in  a  large  vessel  of  boiling- 
water  ;  place  a  weight  upon  the  mold  to  keep  it  steady, 
do  not  allow  the  water  to  stop  boiling,  and  in  replen- 
ishing, take  care  that  the  water  does  not  reach  the  top 
of  the  mold  ;  boil  three  or  four  liours,  then  turn  the 
bread  out  of  the  mold,  and  dry  it  in  the  oven  for  ten 
minutes. — Josephine  Harrison.  Denver,  Col. 

BROWX  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  cornmeal,  four  cups  of  Graham  Hour,  three 
cups  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda  ;  put  into  the  molasses,  a  little  salt ;  steam  three 
hours. — Mrs.  Mary  Gay,  Fayette,  Mo. 


BREAD.  59 

BROWN  BREA». 

Three  eggs,  two  cups  of  milk,  one  sour  and  one 
sweet,  (if  you  haven't  the  sweet  milli,  use  strong  coffee) 
one  cup  of  Orleans  molasses,  two  cups  of  Graham  flour, 
one  of  cornmeal,  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  small 
teaspoon  of  soda;  salt  to  taste;  pour  this  into  two  or 
three  quart  cans,  set  in  your  steamer  and  steam  three 
hours. — 3frs.  Bettie  Tutt  Dimaway,  Oswego,  Kan. 

CIirXAMOX  ROI^I^S. 

Take  a  part  of  the  dough  that  you  have  prepared  for 
rolls,  and  roll  it  out  till  it  is  the  thickness  of  biscuit; 
take  two  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  one  of  butter,  four 
of  sugar,  and  stir  them  well  together  ;  then  spread  on 
your  dough,  turn  over,  and  spread  the  mixture  again ; 
then  roll  the  dough  together  and  cut  in  thin  slices ;  put 
them  in  a  pan  to  rise  again;  bake  about  half  an  hour. 
The  same  can  be  done  with  biscuit  dough. — Mrs.  Fan- 
nie Everett,  Fayette,  Mo. 

WAFFLES. 

One  e^g  beaten  light,  one  quart  of  fresh  buttermilk, 
one  quart  of  flour,  teaspoon  of  soda,  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Beat  thoroughly.— Jfr6'.  Wilson  SmitJt,  Fayette,  Mo. 

MFFFIXS. 

Two  eggs  beaten  separately;  one  quart  of  flour;  not 
quite  a  quart  of  buttermilk,  teaspoon  of  soda,  teasjioon 
of  salt;  add  whites  last;  beat  until  light.  The  batter 
for  muffins  should  be  thicker  than  for  waffles ;  have 
irons  hot  ;  grease  well  ;  bake  in  quick  oven  ;  as  soon 
they  rise,  put  on  the  top  or  upper  grate  to  brown. 

MUFFI^fS. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  three  cuj^s  of  sweet  milk,  three 
eggs,  butter,  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
yeastpowder,  a  little  salt.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs. 
H.  K.  Givens,  Fayette,  Mo. 


60  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

SODA  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  and  one 
of  salt,  mixed  in  the  flour ;  lump  of  lard  or  butter,  th  e 
size  of  an  egg ;  one-half  pint  of  clabber  or  buttermilk  ; 
have  a  soft  dough,  as  soft  as  can  be  rolled  out,  and 
stick  with  a  fork.  Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Joseph 
Tolson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SODA  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  half 
teacup  of  lard,  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  level 
teaspoon  of  salt ;  sift  the  soda  in  the  flour ;  mix  the  lard 
well  with  the  flour;  add  the  milk,  and  work  until 
smooth  ;  cut  out  as  rapidly  as  possible,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Breaker,  Fayette,  Mo. 

YEASTPOWDER  BISCUITS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking- 
powder,  lard,  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  salt ;  milk 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Mix  just  before  baking, 
and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  E.  R.  Hendrix,  Fayette, 

Mo. 

BEAT  BISCUIT. 

One  pint  of  flour,  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  small  teacup 
half  full  of  rich,  sweet  cream ;  beat  till  smooth  and 
light. — Mrs.  Wilson  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 

FBEWCH  BISCUITS. 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  three  eggs,  beaten  separately ; 
little  more  than  a  pint  of  warm,  sweet  milk  ;  teacup  of 
sugar,  teacup  of  yeast,  large  iron  spoon  of  lard,  and  a 
little  salt.  Make  into  dough,  and  work  well.  Let  it 
rise.  If  you  want  the  biscuit  for  tea,  make  up  early  in 
the  morning,  and  about  four  o'clock  work  again.  Roll 
out  thin,  and  cut  into  biscuits ;  lard  on  one  side,  and 
lay  another  on  that  already  greased  with  lard ;  let 
them  rise  again.    Bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven. 


BREAD.  61 

Our  cook  would  often  give  me  the  proportions,  as  I 
would  write  this  recipe  off  for  friends,  and  after  she  had 
finished,  she  would  say  :  "  JVow  please  put  down, '  and 
if  you  do  it  right,  it's  no  trouble  nuther.''  " — Mrs.  E. 
Major,  Fayette,  Mo. 

INDIAN  BREAD. 

Three  cups  of  rye  flour,  three  cups  of  Indian  meal, 
two- thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  four  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder ;  salt ;  with  sweet  milk,  like 
Johnny-cake.  Steam  three  and  one-half  hours,  and 
brown  in  the  oven. — Miss  Cora  Jones,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

RECIPE  FOR  CORN  BREAD. 

Take  one  pint  cornmeal,  pour  in  sufficient  boiling 
water  to  scald  it  well,  let  cool,  then  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  piece  of  lard  as  large  as  a  walnut,  and  one  or 
two  eggs,  and  beat  thoroughly ;  put  in  a  little  sweet 
milk  to  make  it  brown  nicely  ;  bake  in  gem  pans,  or 
put  in  a  stove  pan,  in  spoonfuls.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 
—Mrs.  J.  R.  Estill,  Estill,  Mo. 

FRITTERS. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  flour,  with  one  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Serve  with  powdered  sugar,  or  maple  syrup.  Fry  in 
hot  lard,  as  you  do  crullers. 

CORN  BATTER  BREAD. 

One  quart  of  clabber,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  or  lard,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  half  tea- 
spoon of  soda.  Stir  in  meal  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter.  To  make  good  bread  have  the  batter  thin. 
Have  the  pan  well  greased,  and  hot.  Put  in  the  oven 
and  bake  one  hour. 


62  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

EGG  BREAD. 

One  egg,  beat  well ;  add  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one 
level  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  of  salt.  Stir  until  it  foams, 
then  add  one  pint  of  meal,  and  one  teaspoon  of  melted 
lard.  We  prefer  an  iron  skillet  for  agg  bread ;  have 
hot,  and  well  greased.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

cob:^  batter  cakes. 

Two  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  pint  of  buttermilk, 
one  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  of  salt,  one  pint  of  meal, 
one-half  teacup  of  sweet  milk ;  add  the  whites  last. 
Have  griddle  hot,  and  well  greased. 

CORX   MIIFFIXS. 

Muffins  are  made  by  the  above  recipe  by  adding  a 
teaspoon  of  melted  lard.  Bake  in  muffin  irons,  hot,  and 
well  greased. 

PI.AIX   €ORX  BBEAD. 

With  a  light  quart  of  meal  mix  well  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  one  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one  pint  of  fresh 
buttermilk.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PEAIX   CORX  BBEAD. 

One  quart  of  meal,  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  with  cold 
water.  Make  in  small  loaves.  Have  the  skillet  hot. 
Sprinkle  meal  in  skillet,  to  prevent  the  bread  sticking. 

One  teacup  of  yeast,  one  pint  warm  sweet  milk,  a 
piece  of  butter  size  of  hen  Qgg,  two  pints  of  flour,  two 
eggs,  one  tablespoon  sugar.  When  ready  to  put  to  rise, 
work  in  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda. 

SAIiliY  I.lJ:RfX. 

Rise  the  dough  as  you  would  for  rolls.  When  it  is 
well  risen,  do  not  take  it  out  of  the  bucket  till  you  add 
one  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  half  cup  of  butter  ; 
work  all  together  with  the  liand,  till  the  eggs  and  sugar 


BREAD.  63 

are  thoroughly  mixed,  then  pour  into  a  warm,  greased 
pan,  and  rise  as  3^ou  would  rolls. 

PUFFET^  FOR  TEA. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  two- thirds  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  three  pints  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  muffin  rings,  and  serve  warm. — 3Irs. 
M.  Bridges,  Fayette,  Mo. 

MOOXSHOE   TOAST. 

Take  what  bread  you  want  to  use  for  toast,  and  soak 
it  a  few  minutes  in  sweet  milk.  Take  it  out  and  put  it 
in  a  stove  pan  ;  cover  with  milk.  It  will  soon  be  a  nice 
brown,  then  take  each  piece  and  butter  it  while  it  is 
hot,  and  lay  two  together.— Jfr^.  T.  J.  Payne,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

FRE:SfCH  TOAST. 

Beat  two  eggs  in  a  dish  ;  put  in  a  half  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  a  little  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  slice  some 
cold  light  bread :  have  your  skillet  hot,  with  equal 
parts  of  lard  and  butter.  Dip  the  bread  in  the  milk  and 
eggs  half  a  minute  ;  turn  over,  and  ivj  until  a  light 
brown.  An  excellent  way  to  use  stale  bread. — Mrs. 
John  Mc Crary,  Huntsmlle,  Mo. 

BREAD  CAKES. 

Soak  over  night,  in  a  little  warm  water,  dry  bread 
enough  to  make  a  quart.  Drain  off  the  water  in  the 
morning.  To  one  cup  of  flour  add  a  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder.  Mix  well ;  beat  up  the  soft  bread  with  some 
milk  ;  add  to  this  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  then  the  flour  and  baking  i)owder,  and  last  of 
all,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  The  butter  should 
flow  easily  from  the  spoon  ;  rub  a  bit  of  salt  pork  on 
the  griddle,  hot,  and  drop  a  spoonful  of  batter  for  each 
cake. 


64  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK, 

BR£AKFA!ST  CAKES. 

Mix  one  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  and  a  little  salt, 
with  as  much  water,  warm,  as  will  make  a  thin  batter  ; 
beat  it  well,  then  add  the  yeast,  and  a  very  little  syrup. 
When  well  mixed  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise ;  as 
soon  as  it  is  very  light,  add  half  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Have  the  griddle  hot,  and  well  greased,  and  bake  the 
cakes  to  a  delicate  brown.  Pour  over  them  melted 
butter,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  E.  Major.,  Fayette.,  Mo. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

Make  a  dough,  the  same  as  for  soda  biscuit;  roll  it 
thin,  the  size  of  your  jelly -cake  pans,  and  when  done, 
open  the  cakes,  and  butter  both  the  inside  and  outside 
layers ;  have  your  strawberries  nicely  picked,  and 
sugared,  before  you  prepare  the  dough,  in  order  to 
have  plenty  of  juice;  spread  your  berries  in  both  the 
upper  and  lower  layer,  putting  one  layer  on  top  of  the 
other ;  set  it  again  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  not 
long,  to  cook  the  berries. — From  My  Mot7ier''s  CooTc 
Book. 


->-;I':^T):l)T^"^rs: 


GENERAL    DIRECTIONS. 

If  a  pudding  is  to  be  boiled  or  steamed,  always  have 
the  Avater  boiling  before  the  j)udding  is  put  in.  Do  not 
allow  it  to  stop  boiling  for  an  instant  while  the  pudding- 
is  cooking.  Puddings  are  boiled  in  cloths,  or  in  moulds, 
tied  in  cloths :  they  should  be  tied  tightly,  and  the 
moulds  be  buttered  before  the  puddings  are  put  in 
them.  A  pudding  cloth  should  be  made  of  thick  twilled 
muslin,  and  alwaA^s  before  using  it,  wash  it  out  in  clean 
water,  and  flour  it  well  before  pouring  in  the  pudding, 
allowing  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Puddings  are 
much  nicer  and  lighter  steamed  than  boiled.  Have  the 
steamer  hot  before  putting  in  the  j)udding.  All  pud- 
dings in  which  berries  are  used,  require  more  flour  than 
those  without ;  audit  must  be  remembered,  fruit  (dusted 
with  a  little  flour)  should  always  be  added  the  last  thing. 
All  puddings,  of  the  custard  kind,  require  a  very  gentle 
oven.  Those  made  of  batter  should  be  put  into  one  suf- 
ficiently brisk  to  raise  them  quickly,  without  scorching 
them.  Such  as  contain  suet  and  fruit,  must  have  a  well 
heated,  but  not  fierce  oven.  Always  be  sure  and  butter 
the  dish  well,  before  the  pudding  is  turned  in. 

FRIIT  PIDDIXCJ. 

One  coffee  cup  of  beef  suet,  chopped  ver}^  fine,  one 
coftee-cup  of  molasses,  one  of  buttermilk,  one  of  raisins, 
seeded  and  chopped,  one  of  currants,  washed  and  dried, 
three  of  flour,  well  sifted,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  half  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  also  of  mace,  one  grated 
nutmeg.    Mix  all  well.    Pour  in  a  well  greased  pudding 

65 


66  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

mould,  and  steam  four  hours. — Mrs.  Dr.  Thomas  Sinitli^ 
Fayette,  Mo. 

SUET  PUDDIXG. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  of  sweet  milk,  one  of  chop- 
ped suet,  two  of  raisins,  three  of  Hour,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  a  little  salt,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  to  your 
taste.  Boil  two  and  a  half  hours. — Mrs.  Dr.  J.  D. 
Smith,  St.  Joseph,  Mo. 

SUET  PUDDOG. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  of  sweet  milk,  one  of  suet, 
chopped  fine,  one  of  raisins,  one  of  currants,  two  and 
one  half  cups  of  Hour,  one  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one 
half  teaspoon  of  clove,  same  of  allspice,  one  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  and  a  half  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  and  steam 
two  and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  W.  M.  Robertson,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

DOVER   PUDDIXG. 

Three  coffee  cups  of  fiour,  one  teacup  of  finely  chop- 
ped suet,  one  teacup  of  milk,  two-thirds  cup  of  molasses, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  a  small  nutmeg,  and  a  little  salt ; 
first  mix  two  cups  of  the  fiour  with  the  suet,  add  the 
milk,  soda,  and  molasses,  then  the  third  cup  of  flour; 
lastly,  the  raisins.  Steam  in  a  mould  five  hours. — Mrs. 
Enelina  Carson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

BOIUED   BAISIX  PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  one  teacup  of 
seeded  raisins,  well  fioured ;  enough  fiour  to  make  a 
stiff  batter ;  put  in  a  sack,  and  drop  in  boiling  water. 
Boil  one  hour  and  a  half.— J/r^.  T.  J.  Payne,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

GRAHAM   PUDDING. 

Mix  well  together  one  half  coffee-cup  of  molasses,  one 
fourth  cup  of  butter,  one  half  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one 
half  cups  of  Graham  fiour,  one  <d^^,  one  half  teaspoon  of 


PUDDINGS.  67 


soda,  one  cap  of  raisins,  or  currants ;  spices  to  taste. 
Steam  four  hours. — 3Irs.  JY.   0.  Jones,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

W001>F0RI>   PUI>1>I\'G. 

Three  eggs,  one  teacup  of  sugar,  one  half  teacup  of 
butter,  one  half  teacup  of  flour,  one  teacup  of  jams,  or 
preserves,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  three  tea- 
spoons of  sour  milk ;  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  to  taste. 
Mix  all  together,  and  bake  slowly  in  pudding  pan. — 
Mrs.  Rebecca  Ford,  Kansas  Clty^  Mo. 

A  SPICED  APPL.E  PIJDDIXG. 

Three  teacupfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  three  teacupfuls  of 
apples,  chopped,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  one  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  raisins,  perhaps  a  little  citron,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  brand3^  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, half  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful 
of  mace,  two  or  three  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Cook  the 
bread  crumbs  a  few  minutes  with  a  pint  of  milk,  before 
adding  the  other  ingredients  ;  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  the  last  tiling  before  baking.  Bake  half  an  hour, 
if  the  oven  be  quite  hot.  Serve  with  any  sweet  sauce. — 
From  Mrs.  Henderson's  Cook  Book. 

TAPIOC.i    PlDI>I\0. 

Peel,  core  and  cook,  until  quite  done,  six  large 
apples  ;  drain  otf  the  water  ;  and  beat  well  with  one  tea- 
cup of  sugar.  Add  the  tapioca,  which  has  been  in  soak 
several  hours.  Stir  all  well  together.  Flavor  with  nut- 
meg, or  lemon.  Bake  in  baking  dish  about  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  Serve  with  cream,  or  solid  sauce  made 
of  sugar  and  butter,  beaten  together  until  light,  and  fla- 
vored Willi  wine.  Peaches  (fresh  or  canned)  may  be 
substituted,  and  are  an  improvement. — Mrs.  E.  Major, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

TAPIOCA   PIOWIXO. 

Soak  over  niglit  one  teacupful  of  tapioca  ;  add  tlie 
yolks  of  four  well-beaten  egg.s,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 


68  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

pint  of  cream,  and  lastly,  the  whites,  and  a  cup  of 
stoned  raisins.  Bake  in  buttered  pan.  Serve  warm, 
with  brandy  sauce.  If  eaten  without  sauce  you  must 
add  to  the  above  one  half  cup  of  butter. — 3frs.  Charlie 
Smitli,  Fayette,  Mo. 

COCOANIIT    PITDDIXG. 

Whites  of  nine  eggs,  one  pound  of  pulverized  sugar, 
one  half  pound  of  butter,  one  cocoanut,  grated.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  stiff;  then  the  cocoanut  milk  and  cocoanut.— 
Miss  Eliza  Payne,  Nebraska  City,  Neh. 

COCOANIIT   PlIDDIXG. 

One  qaart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  grated  bread 
crumbs,  (cake  crumbs  are  better,)  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
grated  cocoanut,  salt  and  flour.  Bake  an  hour. — Mrs, 
W.  C.  Arline,  Fayette,  Mo. 

COCOAXUT  PllDDIIVG. 

One  quart  of  milk,  half  a  cocoanut,  grated,  four  eggs, 
a  little  salt  and  sugar,  to  taste  ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven, 
about  thirty  minutes.     Serve  with  a  sauce. 

MOIJXT  ilX  DEER  PUDDOG. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  half  cup  of  sugar,  four 
eggs  (yolks,)  one  half  cup  rolled  crackers,  one  grated 
cocoanut.  Bake  one  half  hour  ;  take  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  meringue  the  top,  and  bake  till  a  delicate 
brown.  To  be  eaten  Goldi.— -Mrs.  J.  H.  Pearson,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

COCOANUT   PUDDING. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  grated  cocoanut,  one  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  half 
pint  of  cream,  nine  eggs  ;  stir  the  butter  as  for  cake  ; 
add  tne  eggs,  well  beaten ;  grate  the  cocoanut  and  stir 
in,  with  butter  and  eggs.  Put  in  the  other  ingredients, 
and  bake  with,  or  without  a  crust.     It  requires  three- 


run  DINGS.  69 


quarters  of  an  hour  for  baking.  Some  persons  grate  in 
stale  rusk,  or  sponge  cake. — Mrs.  Dr.  T.  J.  Smitli,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

DEI^MO^ICO   PUDDOO. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  using  the  white  of  one 
only ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of 
corn  starch,  one  cupful  of  cocoanut,  a  little  salt.  Put 
the  milk  on  the  lire  to  scald ;  wet  the  starch  in  cold 
milk  ;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar,  and  stir  all  into  the  scald- 
ing milk  ;  add  the  cocoanut,  and  pour  the  whole  into  a 
pudding  dish.  Beat  the  three  whites  with  three  table- 
spoons of  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla ;  bake  a  light 
brown.     Serve  with  sauce. 

SPONGE  PlIDDIXG. 

Butter  six  or  eight  slices  of  sponge  cake  ;  place  them 
in  the  pudding  dish ;  make  a  custard  of  four  eggs  to  a 
quart  of  milk ;  flavor,  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  pour  over 
the  cake,  and  bake  one  half  hour.  The  cake  will  swell, 
and  flU  the  dish. 

ORANGE  PUODIXG. 

Take  four  good  sized  oranges,  peel,  seed,  and  cut  in 
small  pieces ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  let  it  stand. 
Into  one  cup  of  nearly  boiling  milk,  stir  two  tablespoons 
of  corn  starch  ;  mix  with  a  little  water,  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs.  When  done,  let  it  cool,  and  mix  with  the 
oranges.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and 
half  a  cup  of  sugar  ;  spread  over  the  top  of  the  pud- 
ding. Brown  in  the  oven. — Mm.  J.  L.  Morrison,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

CORN  STARCH    PLI>I>ING. 

One  pint  of  rich  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch,  a  scant  half  cupful  of  sugar,  whites  of  three  or 
four  eggs,  a  little  salt,  flavoring.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  milk. 
Stir  the  sugar  into  the  remainder  of  the  milk ;  which 
place  on  the  Are.    When  it  begins  to  boil  add  the  dis- 


70  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

solved  corn  starch.  Stir  constantly  for  a  few  moments, 
when  it  will  become  a  sraootli  paste  ;  now  stir  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  let  it  remain  a  little 
longer  to  cook  the  eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla ;  pour 
into  a  mould.  This  pudding  is  improved  by  adding 
half  a  cocoanut,  grated.  Season  with  whipped  cream. 
— Mrs.  J.  L.  Morrison,  Fayftte.  Mo. 

Two  quarts  of  milk,  five  eggs,  one  teacup  of  white 
sugar  ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Dissolve  the  starch  in  one 
quart  of  milk ;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the 
sugar,  until  light,  and  add  the  other  quart  of  milk  ; 
pour  this  into  the  milk  and  starch,  which  has  been 
heated  to  boiling ;  boil  until  thick.  Flavor  after  taking 
from  the  fire.  When  cold  spread  the  meringue  overtop. 
Place  in  the  oven  until  a  light  brown.  Serve  with 
cream,  or  sauce. — Mrs.  Martlia  Elliott,  Estill,  Mo. 

SXOW  PlIDDIXG. 

Cover  one  third  of  package  of  gelatine  with  cold 
water ;  stir  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  add  one  cup  of 
sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  or  a  half  cup  of  wine. 
When  cold,  and  beginning  to  thicken,  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs.  Beat  all  well  together,  and  pour 
into  moulds.  Serve  with  boiled  custard,  made  with  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  and  half  cup  of 
sugar. — Mis  Romeo  Hughes,  Fayette,  Mo. 

GEI.ATIWE    PUDDING. 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs  ;  with  the 
yolks  make  a  boiled  custard,  (with  a  pint  of  milk,  and 
sugar,  to  taste.)  Set  a  third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  to  soak 
a  few  minutes  in  a  little  cold  water ;  then  dissolve  it 
with  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  When  the 
custard  has  cooled,  add  the  gelatine  water  and  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  flavor  with  vanilla. 


PUDDINGS.  71 

Stir  all  together,  and  put  it  into  a  mould,  or  moulds.  It 
will  settle  into  three  layers,  and  is  a  very  pretty  pud- 
ding, tasting  very  much  like  a  Charlotte  riLsne.  A  pretty 
effect  can  be  obtained  by  using  Cox's  jxink  gelatine.— 
From  Mrs.  Henderson's  Coolx,  Book. 

ORAXGE   ROI.EY  POI.EY. 

Make  a  light  pastrj-,  as  apple  dumplings  ;  roll  in 
oblong  sheets,  and  lay  oranges  peeled,  sliced,  and 
seeded,  thickly  all  over  it ;  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  ; 
scatter  over  all  a  teaspoon  or  two  of  grated  orange  peel, 
and  roll  up,  folding  down  the  edges  closely,  to  keep  the 
syrup  from  running  out ;  boil  in  a  cloth  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. — Buckeye  Cookery. 

BROH  x\  BETTY. 

Put  a  layer  of  sweetened  apple-sauce  in  a  buttered 
dish;  add  a  few  lumps  of  butter;  then  a  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs,  sprinkled  with  a  little  cinnamon  ;  then 
a  layer  of  sauce,  etc.,  making  the  last  layer  of  crumbs. 
Bake  in  oven,  and  serve  with  cold,  sweetened  cream. — 
3Irs.  Fratie  Knickerbocker,  Fayette,  Mo.,  186 1^. 

QIIEEX    OF    PIDDIXOS. 

To  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  add  one  quart  of  sweet 
milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  the  rind 
of  a  fresh  lemon,  grated  line,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  hen  Q^g.  Bake  till  done.  Beat  the  four  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth,  adding  one  teacupful  of  sugar  ;  stir  in  the 
juice  of  one  lemon.  When  the  pudding  is  baked,  spread 
a  layer  of  acid  jelly  over,  then  the  meringue.  Set  in  the 
oven,  to  brown  slightly.  Serve  with  cold  cream. — Mrs. 
Nannie  Lay,  Jefferson  City,  Mo. 

BICE  PLDBIXG. 

To  a  cup  of  boiled  rice,  while  warm,  add  a  pint  of  milk, 
in  which  a  little  corn  starch  has  been  dissolved,  and  boil 
again  ;  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten,  with  half  a 


72  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

cup  of  sugar.  Stir  well  together ;  and  lastly,  add  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Place  in  a  dish, 
and  bake  slowly  in  the  oven.  When  done,  spread  over 
the  top  the  whites,  beaten,  with  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
and  brown  in  oven.  A  cup  of  raisins  may  be  added 
just  before  baking.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

COTTAOEIPITDDING. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  half  cup  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  (level 
full)  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar.  Flour  to  make  a 
thick  batter.     Flavor  with  nutmeg.     Serve  with  sauce. 

SIMPI.E  PlIDDIXG. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
sweet  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  quart  of 
flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Flour  to  taste, 
— 3fiss  Sall'ie  Warden,  Fayette,  Mo. 

VIRGINIA  PlIDDI»fG. 

Five  eggs,  reserving  three  whites  for  sauce,  one  pint 
of  milk,  one  gill  of  cream,  or  an  ounce  of  butter,  three 
tablespoons  of  flour,  a  little  salt.  Bake  one  half  hour. 
Sauce. — Beat  three  whites,  with  one  half  pound  of 
sugar.  Flavor  with  wine,  or  lemon.  Pour  on  pudding 
just  before  serving. ^J//.s.?  Bessie  Gay,  Fayette,  Mo. 


^SACGES^fdE 


Bl TTER  SAUCE. 

Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half 
cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  hot  starch,  made  of  flour  or  cornstarch  ;  use 
wine,  lemon,  vanilla  or  any  flavoring  preferred  ;  stir  the 
butter  with  a  fork  to  a  light  cream  ;  add  the  sugar  and 
continue  to  beat  it  for  one  or  two  minutes ;  just  before 
serving,  stir  in  with  an  egg- whisk,  the  boiling  starch 
and  flavoring. 

BUTTER  SAUCE  WITH  EGGS. 

Dissolve  a  pint  of  sugar,  in  a  little  water ;  cream  a 
teacup  of  butter,  and  the  yoYks  of  two  eggs ;  then  add 
the  sugar;  set  on  the  stove  to  boil  slowly,  stirring 
almost  constantly  ;  use  any  flavoring  preferred. 

A  PI.AIXER  SAUCE. 

One  coffee  cup  of  clarified  broioii  sugar ;  a  Inmp  of 

butter,  size  of  an   eg^,  one  level  tablespoon  of  flour, 

(dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water);  mix  well  together; 

then  stir  in  a  coffee-cup  of  boiling  water ;  let  boil  till 

the  consistency  of  cream  ;  flavor  with  either  nutmeg  or 
lemon. 

WU\E  SAUCE. 

Beat  a  cup  of  butter  until  creamy,  then  gradually 
beat  into  it,  two  cups  of  powdered  sugar ;  add  a  gill  of 
shtrry  by  spoonfuls  ;  beat  the  mixture  until  it  becomes 
a  smooth,  light  froth ;  then  set  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of 
boiling  water,  and  stir  for  a  minute  and  a  half;  have 
3^our  sauce-bowl  heated  by  means  of  boiling  water; 
when  the  sauce  is  finished,  empty  the  bowl  of  water, 
and  put  the  sauce  into  it ;  grate  nutmeg  over  the  sauce 
and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

73 


74  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

FOAM  SAUCE. 

Beat  up  as  for  hard  sauce  ;  white  sugar  with  butter, 
until  very  light  in  the  i^roportion  of  half  a  cup  of  but- 
ter to  one  cup  of  sugar ;  flavor  with  essence  of  lemons 
or  bitter  almonds ;  fifteen  minutes  before  serving,  set 
the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  on  the  stove,  and 
stir  it  till  hot ;  it  will  raise  in  a  white  foam  to  the  top 

of  the  bowl. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

One  teacup  powdered  white  sugar,  scant  half  teacup 

butter,  half  teacup  rich  cream :  beat  butter  and  sugar 

thoroughly,  add  cream  ;  stir  the  whole  into  half  teacup 

boiling  water ;  place  on  the  stove  for  a  few  moments, 

stirring  it  constantly  ;  take  it  off,  and  add  flavoring. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE. 

Half  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg,  and  one  cupful  of  strawberries  (mashed), 
rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  add  the  beaten  white 
of  the  egg,  and  the  strawberries  thoroughly  mashed. 

COED  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Beat  together  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  cup  of  butter; 
add  a  cup  of  rich  cream.  Stir  all  to  a  cream,  flavoring 
with  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  place  where  it  will  get  very 
cold  before  serving. 

PEAIX   CREAM  SAUCE. 

One  pint  of  cream,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and 
half  a  small  nutmeg  grated. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE. 

One  pint  of  rich  cream  sweetened  to  taste  and  flavored 
with  wine ;  skim  off  the  top  as  it  is  whipped  and  place 
in  sauce  bowl,  or  it  makes  a  very  pretty  dish  to  place 
it  around  the  pudding. 

SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  light  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  of  cream  cooked  together. 


^PIESse- 


PASTRY. 

Pastry  for  seven  pies  ;  three  uncovered ;  three  pints 
of  Hour,  one  pound  of  butter,  and  a  heaping  cujd  of 
lard ;  wash  the  butter  in  ice-water  to  extract  the  salt ; 
set  the  pan  in  which  you  mix  the  pastry,  in  a  pan  of 
ice-water;  mix  very  lightly  the  flour  and  lard  and 
butter. — From  My  Mother's  Cook  Book. 

PASTRY. 

One  pound  of  flour,  sifted  three  or  four  times  ;  half 
pound  lard,  one-fourth  pound  of  butter ;  cut  up  the  lard 
with  the  flour  and  mix  it  with  icewater ;  handle  as  little 
as  possible  with  the  hands ;  roll  thin  and  spread  with 
thin  slices  of  butter;  then  dredge  with  flour;  roll  up 
and  slice  in  about  three  or  four  pieces  ;  roll  out  again, 
and  again;  spread  with  butter  and  dredge  with  the 
flour  as  before ;  roll  up  and  stand  on  end ;  dredge  with 
flour  ;  roll  out  thin  and  place  in  pans. — 3Irs.  Dr.  T.  J. 
Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 

MIXCEMEAT. 

Two  pounds  of  lean,  tender  beef;  after  it  is  cooked 
and  chopped,  half  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  suet 
chopped  flne,  three  pounds  of  apples  chopped  flne,  three 
pounds  of  raisins,  seeded  and  cut,  two  pounds  of  cur- 
rants, half  pound  citron,  one  pound  of  flgs,  two  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  half  ounce  of 
clover,  half  ounce  of  allspice,  one-fourth  ounce  of  mace, 
juice  of  four  oranges,  and  three  lemons,  four  nutmegs 
grated,  one  pint  of  good  brandy,  one  gallon  of  sweet 
cider ;  mix  well  and  keep  well  covered. — Mrs.  Mlttie 
C.  Burton,  Fayette,  Mo. 

75 


76  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

"  TEMPERANCE  "   MIXCEMEAT. 

Five  pounds  of  meat  cooked  and  chopped  line,  two 
pounds  of  suet,  four  pounds  raisins  seeded  and  cut, 
eiglit  oranges,  juice  and  pulp,  four  pounds  of  apples, 
half  pound  of  citron,  one  ounce  each  of  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  nutmeg,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar. — Mrs. 
D.  0.  Morris,  Fayette,  Mo. 

MINCEMEAT. 

Two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  boiled  tender,  and  chopped 
fine ;  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  pounds  of  raisins  seed- 
ed and  cut,  two  pounds  of  apples  cut  fine,  one  pound  of 
citron,  one  tablespoon  of  powdered  cinnamon,  table- 
spoon of  powdered  cloves  and  one  of  ginger,  one  tea- 
spoon of  grated  nutmeg ;  mix  all  together  and  set  on 
the  stove ;  let  simmer  till  well  mixed ;  when  cold,  add 
one  quart  of  brandy. — Mrs.  H.  K.  Glvens,  Fayette,  Mo. 

MOCK  MINCEMEAT. 

Two  cups  of  warm  water,  half  cup  of  butter,  two- 
thirds  cup  of  vinegar,  two  cups  of  raisins,  one  cup  of 
bread  crumbs  or  crackers,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  of 
molasses ;  spices  to  taste.  Bake  with  two  crusts. — 
Mrs.  Minnie  Pile,  Fayette,  Mo. 

EEMON  PIES. 

Take  three  lemons,  cut  them  up  fine ;  two  cups  of 
molasses,  one  of  sugar,  four  eggs ;  mix  well  together 
and  make  two  pies,  in  the  following  manner ;  take  deep 
pie  pans,  line  the  bottom  with  a  crust ;  put  in  one-fourth 
of  the  mixture  into  each  pan,  lay  on  another  crust ;  put 
in  the  rest  of  the  mixture  and  cover  with  a  crust. — Mrs. 
Dr.  T.  J.  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 

I.EMON  PIE. 

Six  eggs  ;  one  teacup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  teaspoon 
level  full  of  "citric  acid,"  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water,  tablespoon  of  extract  of  lemon ;  beat  the  yolks 


PIES.  11 

of  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  liglit ;  add  butter,  then 
extract  and  acid,  and  lastly  the  wliites  beaten  to  a  stift' 
froth.  Line  pans  with  pastry  and  bake  before  putting 
in  tlie  tilling. — Mrs.  8-  C.  Major,  Fayette.,  Mo. 

liEMOX  PIE. 

Two  lemons,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  water, 
two  tablespoons  of  Hour,  four  eggs,  half  cup  of  butter; 
add  all  together  and  beat  well  ;  grate  the  outside  of  the 
lemon  peel  in  with  the  other  ingredients ;  reserve  the 
whites  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  nearly  a  cup  of 
sugar;  put  over  the  pies  when  done,  and  brown  lightly. 
— Mattie  Frazier.  Fayette.,  Mo. 

EEMOX  PIE. 

Put  three  large  lemons  in  the  oven  and  heat  them ; 
squeeze  out  the  juice;  boil  the  rind  in  half  pint  of 
water;  then  add  juice  and  water  to  the  following  mix- 
ture :  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  cornstarch, 
dissolved  in  milk  ;  one  of  butter,  yolks  of  six  eggs ; 
bake  in  crust ;  beat  the  whites  with  half  cuj^  of  sugar ; 
sj^read  over  pies  and  brown  slightly.  This  quantity 
makes  two  pies. — Mrs.  D.  0.  Morris,  Fayette,  Mo. 

EEMOX  PIE. 

Six  eggs ;  leaving  out  the  whites  of  three  ;  one  ahd  a 
half  cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  warmed  till  soft,  but  not  oily;  beat  three 
whites,  with  half  teacup  of  sugar  for  meringue. — Mrs. 
Wm.  Turner,  Glasgow,  Mo. 

EEMOX  PIE. 

The  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup 
of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  one  lemon  ;  juice  put  in  last ;  meringue — whites 
of  three  eggs  and  three  tablespoons  of  sugar. — Mrs.  J. 
A.  J.  Rooker,  Fayette,  Mo. 


78  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


I.EMOX  PIE. 

Five  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  four  table- 
spoons of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  "  citric  acid,"  dissolved 
in  a  little  warm  water ;  tablespoon  of  lemon  extract ;  to 
three  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one  tea- 
cup of  sugar ;  place  on  the  top  of  pies,  and  brown 
slightly. — 3Irs.  Solon  SmitJi,  Fayette.,  Mo. 

TRAXSPAREXT   PIE. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  four  of  sugar,  one  of  flour; 
cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  add  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs ;  then  the  flour  ;  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract ;  line 
pans  with  pastry  and  bake  ;  then  pour  in  the  mixture ; 
when  done,  cover  with  meringue,  made  of  the  four 
whites,  adding  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  each  ^^^g.  Re- 
place in  the  oven  and  brown  slightly. — Mrs.  George 
Holley..  Armstrong,  Mo. 

CHESS  PIE. 

Five  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  sugar;  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together  until  very 
light ;  add  the  butter  after  it  has  been  creamed  ;  flavor 
with  vanilla;  when  done,  cover  with  meringue,  which 
should  be  a  delicate  brown. — Mrs.  Romeo  Hughes, 
Howard  county.  Mo. 

CREAM  PIE. 

Four  eggs,  one  teacup  of  sugar,  one  j^int  of  cream, 
half  cup  of  flour;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together 
until  very  light,  then  add  the  flour ;  place  the  pan  in 
which  3^ou  boil  the  milk,  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water ; 
when  the  cream  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  it  over  the  mix- 
ture, stirring  all  the  while,  to  prevent  scorching;  cook 
this  till  it  is  the  consistency  of  custard;  when  cool, 
flavor  with  vanilla  ;  have  two  pans  lined  with  pastry  ; 
bake  and  All  with  the  custard.  If  meringue  is  used, 
the  whites  of  four  extra  eggs  are  required. — Mrs.  Roio- 
ena  W.  Woods,  Fayette  Mo. 


riKS.  79 

A  NICE  FII.I.IXG   FOR  PIE. 

Take  prunes  enough  for  one  pie ;  stew  and  stone 
them ;  sweeten  to  taste ;  add  the  wliites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  beat  with  prunes  until  well  mixed;  bake 
with  two  crusts  ;  or  if  you  have  rich  cream,  whip  it  and 
use  in  place  of  top  crust. 

MOI.ASSES  PIE. 

Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  cups 
of  water,  one  cup  of  flour,  one-third  cup  of  vinegar; 
mix  together  well,  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  let  it  cool, 
and  flavor  to  taste  ;  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter.  This 
makes  two  pies. — 3£rs.  Lanford  Cook,  Fayette,  Mo. 

APPI.E  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Three  cups  of  stewed  apples ;  nearly  a  cup  of  white 
sugar,  six  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk ;  beat  the  eggs  until 
light  and  mix  with  the  apj)les ;  season  with  nutmeg ; 
then  stir  in  gradually  the  milk,  lastly  add  the  whites ; 
use  only  one  crust. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Potts,  Fayette,  Mo. 

APPL.E  CFSTARD  PIE. 

Prepare  apples  as  you  would  for  apple-sauce  ;  sweet 
en  to  taste ;  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one  cup  of 
milk,  teaspoon  of  melted  butter ;  flavor  with  nutmeg ; 
bake  in  one  crust ;  the  whites  may  be  left  out  for  frost- 
ing, if  preferred. — Mrs.  Louisa  Sebree,  Howard  county, 
Mo. 

GREEN   APPLE  PIE. 

Stew  the  apples  and  run  through  a  colander  ;  sweeten 
to  taste  and  flavor  with  nutmeg.     Bake  with  two  crusts. 

BAKEI>  APPLE  Wir^IPLINClS. 

Peel  and  core  six  acid  apples ;  All  the  holes  with 
sugar  and  butter;  have  ready  a  nice  short  crust;  roll 
in  small  round  pieces ;  enclose  the  apples  in  them  ; 
place  the  dumplings  in  a  deep  pan  (not  crowding  them) 
pour  over  them  one  pint  of  sugar  and  piece  of  butter 


80  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

(half  teacnpful)  and  warm  water  enough  to  nearly 
cover  them ;  bake  nearly  an  honr,  or  until  the  apples 
are  cooked  and  the  dumjjlings  are  brown  (a  light 
brown) ;  if  the  water  cooks  down  too  low,  fill  up  with 
boiling  water.  They  are  very  nice  without  any  addi- 
tional sauce,  but  some  prefer  a  sauce  of  butter  and 
sugar  beaten  until  light ;  cream  butter,  before  mixing 
with  sugar. — Mrs.  John  Farrington,  Howard  county 
Mo. 

BAK£D  APPI.E  BOI.Ii. 

Roll  a  nice  short  crust  in  the  form  of  a  large  square 
spread  over  with  apples  chopped  fine,  sprinkle  over 
with  sugar  and  nutmeg ;  roll  the  crust  and  put  into  a 
baking  pan.  Then  put  over  it  sugar,  pieces  of  butter, 
and  water.  Bake  slowly.  Serve  with  sauce.  Fruit  of 
any  kind  may  be  used  instead  of  apples. 

APPL.E  COBBIiER. 

Fill  an  earthen  pudding  dish  two-thirds  full  of  tart, 
juicy  apples,  peeled,  quartered,  and  cored,  and  the 
quarters  cut  in  two.  Put,  in  a  cup  of  water  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar ;  cover  with  a  paste  of  rich  cream  biscuit 
dough.  Bake  nearly  one  hour.  Serve  from  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  baked.     Peach  cobblers  are  made  similarly. 

DRIED  APPI.E  PIE. 

Soak  the  apple  until  soft;  then  stew  till  soft  enough 
to  go  through  a  colander.  Season  with  lemon ;  add 
sugar  to  taste,  and  one  beaten  egg  for  every  two  pies, 
and  a  teaspoon  of  butter  to  each  pie.  Mix  and  bake 
with  two  crusts. 

FRIED  APPI.E  PIE. 

Make  a  nice  pastry;  roll  thin  about  the  size  of  a  pie- 
plate  ;  put  in  a  spoon  of  nice  dried  apples,  sweetened, 
and  flavored  with  allspice  ;  turn  the  crust  over;  cutout 
with  the  edge  of  a  saucer  to  shape  it  nicely ;  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  like  dousrhnuts. 


PIES.  81 

CHERRY  ROn^. 

Make  a  nice  pastry;  roll  it  out  into  a  thin  sheet;  lay 
the  cherries  thickly  upon  the  pastry,  strew  sugar  over 
them ;  and,  commencing  at  the  side,  roll  carefully  till  all 
the  fruit  is  enclosed ;  pinch  the  edges  together  at  the 
ends,  and  tie  in  a  strong  cotton  cloth,  then  drop  into  a 
pot  of  boiling  water.     Serve  with  sauce. 

TIFFEY  PFDIHXG. 

Half  pound  apples  pared  and  chopped  line,  yolks  of 
live  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  three 
ounces  of  melted  butter,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted 
white  sugar.  Butter  to  be  added  after  the  other  ingre- 
dients are  mixed.  Bake  in  a  paste  like  a  tart.  Have 
ready  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
mixed  with  a  little  sifted  white  sugar,  and  flavor  with 
lemon.  When  pudding  is  done,  put  the  meringue  on 
the  top  and  brown  slightly. — Mrs.  Dr.  T.  J.  Smith, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

PIE  PI.AXT  PIE. 

Peel  the  stalks  ;  cut  into  one-half  inch  pieces.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  and  let  stand  till  cold ;  sweeten  well, 
and  add  several  pieces  of  orange  peel.  Boil  until  done. 
Bake  with  two  crusts. 

STRAWBERRY  CREAM  PIE. 

Line  a  dish  with  pastry,  and  fill  with  fi-esh  straw- 
berries made  very  sweet  with  powdered  sugar;  cover 
with  pastry,  but  do  not  pinch  down  at  the  edges.  When 
done,  lift  the  top  crust,  pour  over  the  berries  the  follow- 
ing, after  it  is  perfectly  cold.  One  small  cup  of  milk 
(or  part  cream)  heated  to  boiling,  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  and  stirred  lightlj^  in  the  boiling  milk,  one 
tablespoon  of  white  sugar,  half  a  teaspoon  of  corn 
starch  wet  with  milk ;  stir  all  together  and  cook  three 
minutes.  Replace  the  top  crust,  and  sprinkle  sugar 
over  the  top  before  serving. — Mrs.  H.  K.  Hinde,  How- 
ard, College,  Fayette,  Mo. 


82  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

IRISH  POTATO  PIE. 

Four  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  large 
potatoes  boiled  and  well  beaten,  half  cup  of  rich  cream, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  flavor  with  nutmeg  and 
brandy.  This  makes  two  pies. — Helen  Georgie  Carson, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

IRISH  POTATO   PIE. 

Two  good  sized  potatoes,  boiled  and  well  beaten  ; 
butter  size  of  a  walnut ;  half  cup  of  cream,  and  half  cup 
of  sweet  milk ;  yolks  of  two  eggs,  good  half  cup  of  sugar  ; 
flavor  with  nutmeg  and  one  tablespoon  of  brandy.  This 
makes  one  pie.  For  meringue  use  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  each  Qgg. 
— Mrs.  Margaret  TJnrvli,  Fayette.,  Mo. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

One  pound  nearly  of  sweet  potatoes,  the  firm  yellow 
ones  are  best ;  half  cup  of  butter,  fourth  cup  of  white 
sugar;  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon;  one  teaspoonful 
nutmeg;  four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately, 
one  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  and  wine  glass  of 
brandy.  Boil  the  potatoes  and  mash  them  ;  cream  the 
batter  and  sugar;  add  the  yolks,  the  spices  and  lemon  ; 
beat  the  potatoes  in  by  degrees  and  until  light,  then 
the  brandy  and  stir  in  the  whites.  Bake  in  dishes  lined 
with  good  pastry,  without  cover. 

PIJMPKIX  PIE. 

One  quart  of  pumpkin  (after  it  is  stewed  and  strained); 
six  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately ;  one 
quart  of  milk ;  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  and  one  of  nut- 
meg ;  one  cup  and  a  half  of  white  sugar;  flavor  with  two 
tablespoons  of  wine  or  brandy.  Beat  all  well  together, 
and  bake  in  crust  without  cover. 


PIE^.  S3 

FRl  IT   PI  DDIAG. 

Five  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one  half  cups  of  fruit ;  any 
kind  of  fruit ;  damsons  are  best.  Line  your  pans  just 
as  you  wonld  for  custard  pies. 

COCOAXIJT  PIE. 

Grate  oiie  cocoanut,  beat  live  eggs  with  sugar  to  taste, 
until  they  are  quite  light;  then  beat  in  your  cocoanut 
milk  with  about  one  pint  of  sweet  milk;  then  mix  all 
together;  and  make  pies  in  pans  lined  with  pastry. — 
Mrs.  Dr.  T.  J.  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 

PIE   FOR  DYSPEPTICS. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  oatmeal,  one  pint  water,  two 
large  apples,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt ;  letoatmea  1 
stand  in  water  a  few  hours  till  it  is  swelled  ;  add  app'es 
pared  and  sliced,  then  sugar.  Mix  all  well  together  ; 
put  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  till  oatmeal  is  dont\ 
Makes  a  most  delicious  pie.  which  can  be  eaten  with 
safety  b}^  sick  or  well. — Nannie  Keyser.  Fayette,  Mo. 


(g^^^'CX)^' 


^NIGE^DIJSSJiET 


\j 


RUSSIAN  CREAH. 

Let  one  quart  of  milk  boil ;  then  add  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  and  a  cup  of  sugar  beaten  together  (as  if  for 
custard) ;  take  this  off  the  stove  and  immediately  add 
the  well  beaten  whites  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  stirring  rapidly  a  few  momenrs  ;  then  add  a  box 
of  Cox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  and 
a  tablespoonful  vanilla. — Mrs.  B.  C.  Clark,  Fayette,  Mo. 

VEI.VET  CREAM. 

One  box  of  gelatine,  well  dissolved  ;  whites  of  three 
eggs;  one  quart  of  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with 
sherry  wine  to  suit  taste.  The  gelatine  when  dissolved, 
must  be  left  to  cool  before  using  ;  stir  into  it  the  three 
whites  ;  whip  the  cream  ;  take  off  the  whip  and  stir 
into  the  gelatine  and  eggs,  stirring  constantly  till  all 
the  cream  is  used ;  pour  into  moulds  and  leave  to 
harden  ;  used  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Dr.  C.  Darby, 
St.  Joseph,  Mo. 

CHARL.OTTE  RUSSE. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  milk  by 
boiling ;  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  (sweetened)  and 
stir  them  in  while  the  milk  is  on  the  fire  ;  when  it  is 
cooked  to  the  consistency  of  custard,  strain  into  a 
bowl,  stirring  constantly;  season  one-half  gallon  cream 
with  wine  ;  whip  to  a  stiff  froth  and  beat  it  in,  just  as 
the  custard  (which  should  be  flavored  with  vanilla) 
begins  to  congeal;  have  ready  a  glass  bowl  lined  with 
sponge  cake  ;  over  which  pour  the  custard. 

84 


NICE  DESSERTS.  85 


Pour  eggs;  whites  and  yolks  beMten  separately  ;  one 
teacup  of  sugar,  one  of  tlour,  one  teasjDoon  of  yeast- 
powder,  one  tablespoon  of  ice-water;  bake  in  biscuit 
pans  ;  when  done,  spread  with  jelly  and  roll  while  hot  ; 
serve  with  wine  sauce. — Mrs.  Wni.  Turner,  Glasgow, 
Mo. 

BL.AXC  MANGE. 

One  quart  fresh  milk;  a  pinch  of  salt,  four  table- 
spoons of  cornstarch,  four  tablespoons  of  white  sugar; 
dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  stir  the 
sugar  and  salt  in  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  place  it 
over  the  lire,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  it  on  the 
dissolved  starch  ;  place  it  over  the  tire  again  and  boil 
three  minutes,  stirring  constantly ;  remove  from  the 
fire  ;  let  it  stand  a  moment  or  two,  then  flavor  with 
vanilla  or  lemon  and  pour  it  in  moulds  to  cool,  having 
flrst  dipped  the  moulds  in  cold  water  and  let  them  drain 

a  moment. 

AMBROSIA. 

Slice  oranges  or  pine  apples  in  a  glass  bowl ;  sweeten 
well ;  have  a  layer  of  the  fruit  and  a  layer  of  grated 
cocoanut,  and  so  on,  until  the  bowl  is  full ;  grate  cocoa- 
nut  on  top. 

APPL.E  MEBIXGUE. 

Boil  tart  apjDles  after  they  are  pared  and  cored ;  run 
the  pulp  through  a  colander,  and  sweeten  to  taste;  to 
a  pint  of  the  soft  pulp,  stir  in  lightly  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  flavor  with  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  lemon  or  vanilla;  serve  with  cream. — 3frs.  M. 
C.  Burton,  Fayette,  Mo. 

APPLE  FI.OAT. 

To  one  quart  of  apples,  partially  stewed  and  well 
mashed,  put  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
four  heaping  tablespoons  of  loaf  sugar;  beat  them 
together  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  eat  with  rich  milk  and 
nutmeff. 


86  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

HEX'S  :\EST. 

se  plain  blanc  mange  recipe  on  cornstarch  package; 
take  half  a  dozen  or  a  dozen  egg  shells  and  fill  with  the 
blancmange  while  warm;  when  cold,  take  out  of  the 
shells  and  place  in  a  glass  dish ;  cut  small  strips  of 
lemon  peel  and  boil  in  a  clear  syrup  till  tender;  place 
them  around  the  egg-forms,  and  make  a  boiled  custard 
and  pour  over  all.  (Very  pretty  and  very  good). — From 
Mrs.  Oweri's  Coolc  Boole. 

ORAXGE  ICE. 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  pint  of  water,  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  granulated  sugar;  add  enough  cold  water  to 
make  three  quarts  of  mixture ;  into  this  squeeze  the 
juice  and  most  of  the  pulp  of  six  oranges  and  three 
lemons;  taking  care  to  remove  all  seeds;  put  into 
freezer,  and  when  beginning  to  freeze,  stir  in  whites  of 
six  eggs,  well  beaten. — Mrs.  L.  S.  Frosser,  Fayette,  Mo. 

PRETTY"  DISH.— PIWEAPPIiE. 

Dissolve  a  box  of  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  cold 
water  ;  add  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  sweeten  to 
taste ;  fiavoi-  with  any  extract  you  may  prefer ;  let  the 
gelatine  come  to  a  boil.  Take  three  or  four  bananas,  peel 
and  slice  them  round  or  lengthwise  ;  lay  in  a  deep  fruit 
dish  ;  sprinkle  some  sugar  over  them  ;  then  pour  the 
gelatine  over  them,  let  it  harden.  Oranges  may  be 
used  in  same  way. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI. 

Sweeten  and  flavor  one  gallon  of  rich  cream,  and  when 
partly  frozen,  add  one  can  of  grated  pine-apple,  citron, 
raisins,  a  few  figs,  candies  and  fruits  of  all  kinds, 
chopped  finely.  There  should  be  one  and  one-half 
quarts  of  fruit.  Freeze  hard  and  mould.  Angels'  food 
(cake)  is  delicious  served  with  this  cream. — 3£7's.  R.  P. 
Williams,  Fayette,  Mo. 


MCE  DESSERTS.  §7 


CHOCOLATE  CREAM. 

One  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  new  milk,  two  cups 
sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  five  tablespoonfuls 
chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk;  heat  the  milk 
almost  to  boiling,  and  pour  by  degrees  in  with  the 
beaten  eggs  and  sugar;  stir  in  the  chocolate;  beat  well 
three  minutes,  and  return  to  the  inner-kettle  ;  heat  until 
it  thickens  well,  stirring  constantly.  Take  from  the 
lire  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Many  think  a  little  vanilla 
an  improvement.  When  the  custard  is  cold,  beat  in  the 
cream  and  fieeze.— J//.v5  Bll^a  Payne,  Mhraska  City, 
Mb. 

PEACH  ICE-CREAM. 

Prepare  your  cream  as  for  plain  ice  cream;  and  when 
partly  frozen,  add  to  one  gallon  of  the  cream,  about  one 
dozen  soft  fresJt  peaches  which  have  been  nicely  chopped 
and  sweetened.  (Delicious.)— J/r^.  J.  D.  ToUon, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

BAXAXA  CREAM. 

Prepare  five  ripe  bananas,  take  off  the  skin ;  pound 
the  iruit  in  a  mortar,  with  five  ounces  white  sugar,  to  a 
pulp.  Beat  up  half  a  pint  of  good  cream  to  a  stiff" froth  ; 
add  the  pounded  bananas,  andhalf  a  glass  of  brandy,  and 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  mix  well  together,  then  add  half 
an  ounce  isinglass  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water, 
gently  whip  in  and  freeze.— Jir6.  John  Morrison,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

ICE-CREAM. 
Take  rich  cream ;  sweeten  to  taste ;  use  any  flavoring 
30U  like.  We  prefer  vanilla.  When  it  begins  to 
freeze,  beat  until  very  light.  Remove  the  inside  frame 
of  the  freezer,  and  set  aside  to  mould.  When  ready  to 
serve,  set  the  freezer  for  an  instant  in  a  bucket  of  hot 
water,  and  turn  into  a  boat  or  dish. 


THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


ORAW<iiE  ICE. 

Eight  oranges,  one  potiiid  of  sugar,  one  lemon,  one 
quart  and  a  cup  of  water.  Make  a  S3a'up  of  the  s  ugar 
and  water;  skim  it  well;  cool ;  add  the  juice  of  the 
oranges.  Boil  up  the  rinds  and  strain  the  water  into  the 
syrup,  and  add  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon  same  way. 
Freeze. 

STRAWBERRY   ICE. 

Allow  a  pound  of  sugar   to   a   quart   of  berries ;  let 

stand  an  hour  or  two;  put  through  a  strainer;  add  an 

equal  quantity  of  water,  and  when  partly  frozen,  add 

the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  to  each  quart  of 

the  mixture. 

PINEAPPEE  ICE. 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  pint  of  water,  and  one  and  a  half 

pounds  of  sugar,  (granulated).     When  quite  clear,  pour 

it  boiling   hot  on  a  can  of  pineapple,   either  grated  or 

cut  in  very  fine  pieces  ;  add  enough  cold  water  to  make 

one  gallon  of  mixture  ;  then  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 

Pour  in  freezer,  and  when  just  beginning  to  freeze  stir  in 

the   whites   of  three   eggs   well   beaten. — Mrs.   Russel 

Caples,  Glasgow,  Mo. 

Pi:SfEAPPEE  ICE. 

One  can  of  grated  pineapple;  pour  into  a  clean 
napkin  and  squeeze  all  the  juice  out  jou  can,  throwing 
the  pulp  away;  add  to  juice  two  cups  sugar,  and  the 
juice  of  two  lemons  (a  teaspoonful  of  tartaric  acid  will  do 
in  place  of  lemons).  Pour  over  all  one  quart  of  boiling 
water  ;  after  it  cools,  freeze  ;  add  the  whites  of  five  eggs 
well  beaten,  after  it  begins  to  freeze. — Mrs.  John  Far- 
rington,  Fayette.  Mo. 

EEMOIV  ICE. 

Two  quarts  of  water ;  two  good  pints  of  sugar  and 
the  juice  of  eight  large  nice  lemons  ;  when  almost  frozen 
add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  ;  you  may  add 
the  juice  of  three  oranges  or  one  pint  of  grated  pine- 
apple.— Mrs.  Charlie  T .  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 


NICK  DESSERTS.  89 

T.E^IOX  ICE. 

Three  lemons  to  a  quari  of  water;  six  teaspooiifuls  of 
wliire  sugar  ;  pare  the  3  ellow  peel  from  the  lemons,  un- 
less you  make  to  use  right  away,  as  the  peel  gives  a 
bitter  taste ;  slice  and  squeeze  the  lemons  on  the  sugar; 
add  a  very  little  water  and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes ; 
then  fill  up  with  water  and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes ; 
strain  and  freeze  as  you  would  cream. 

DEI.MOXICO. 

Yolks  of  six  eggs,  beaten  very  light ;  one  large  teacup 
of  granulated  sugar,  stirred  in  the  eggs  ;  half  a  box  of 
Cox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  half  a  teacup  warm  water  ; 
steep  one-fourth  of  a  vanilla  bean  in  half  pint  cream 
(do  not  let  boil.)  Then  add  the  gelatine ;  then  beat 
with  the  eggs  ;  whip  one  quart  of  cream,  stir  all  to- 
gether, and  pour  in  the  freezer ;  freeze  quickly,  for  the 
gelatine  is  apt  to  congeal  before  it  freezes.  'Tis  best  to 
prepare  the  freezer  before  you  get  the  ingredients 
ready.  This  quantity  makes  one  gallon.  You  can  use 
extract  of  vanilla. — Mrs.  Settle  Tutt  Dunawat/,  Oswego, 
Kansas . 

PIXEAPPIiE  ICE. 

Take  one  quart  can  of  pineapple,  (grated.)  add  one 
cup  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons;  then  pour 
over  it  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  let  it  cool ;  then  put 
it  into  freeze.  When  it  begins  to  freeze,  then  add  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. — Mrs.  E. 
W.  Bedford,  Fayette,  Mo. 

PI^EAPFLiE  SHERBET. 

One  can  of  pineapple  chopped  fine ;  three  lemons, 
using  juice  and  pulp;  sweeten  to  taste;  pour  over  this 
a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  soak  over  night  or 
several  hours  ;  when  it  begins  to  freeze,  stir  in  the 
whites  of  five  eggs,  that  have  been  well  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth. — Mattie  Frazier,  Fayette,  Mo. 


90  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

PI5rEAPPI.E    SHERBET. 

One  pineapple,  (or  can,)  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  pint 
of  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  ;  add  the  juice  to 
the  water  and  sugar  ;  dissolve  the  gelatine  two  hours  in 
cold  water  enough  to  cover  it,  a  half  cup  boiling  water 
to  be  added,  stir  altogether  and  put  on  ice. — Mrs.  I.  P. 
Ryland.,  Tascosa.,  Texas. 

PINEAPPIiE  JEEIiY. 

Pour  the  juice  off  of  two  cans  of  pineapple,  having  as 
much  as  a  pint  of  juice;  take  the  pineapple  after  get- 
ting the  juice  all  out,  and  put  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water 
and  a  little  sugar  over  it,  and  boil  to  get  the  flavor  all 
out;  soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  water, 
until  it  is  well  dissolved  ;  then  add  it  to  the  boiled  pine- 
apple ;  then  the  s\veetened  juice;  strain  it  and  set  aside 
to  congeal.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mary  Jack- 
son, Fayette,  Mo. 

Pi:»fEAPPIiE  GEEATIXE. 

Pour  over  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  one  pint  of  cold 
water  and  let  it  stand  several  hours  ;  flavor  with  one 
teacup  of  white  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  of  citric  acid ; 
pour  over  this  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  add  one 
pint  of  grated  pineap2)le. 

WIWE  JEEI.Y. 

Pour  over  one  ounce  of  gelatine,  a  pint  of  cold  w^ater ; 
let  it  stand  three-fourths  of  an  hour;  then  add  two 
pints  of  boiling  water,  two  pounds  of  crushed  sugar, 
juice  of  two  lemons  (lemon  extract  and  citric  acid  can 
be  used  if  you  can't  get  lemons) ;  half  pint  Madeira 
wine,  and  a  wdne  glass  of  brand}^ ;  strain  in  a  mould ; 
cold  water  should  be  poured  in  the  mould  and  emptied 
3  us t  before  using;  it  hardens  much  quicker  on  ice.  or 
the  coolest  place  you  can  And ;  dip  the  moulds  in  warm 
water  just  a  minute  befoie  taking  out  the  jelly. — Mrs. 
S.   C.  Major,  Fayette,  Mo. 


NICE  DESSERTS.  91 


liEMOX  FOAM. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  with  one  cup  of  sugar  ; 
one  cup  of  milk;  dissolve  one-third  box  of  gelatine  in 
a  little  warm  water;  let  the  mixture  b(nl,  then  add  the 
juice  of  three  large  lemons  and  cook  until  it  begins  to 
jelly  ;  pour  in  a  mould  and  set  in  a  cool  place  or  on  ice 
for  an  hour;  beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  with  half  a 
cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  pour  over  the  top. — Ada  B. 
Beck,  Fayette,  Mo. 

BOIT.i:i>  CUSTARD. 
•  Set  a  tin  vessel  containing  half  gallon  of  sweet  milk 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water ;  beat  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs, 
with  one  tablespoon  of  flour  ;  three  spoonfuls  of  flour 
with  cold  milk;  strain  this  in  the  milk  as  soon  as  it 
boils,  stirring  constantly ;  sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor 
with  vanilla ;  whip  the  whites  of  Ave  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  ;  cook  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them  ;  lay 
on  custard  after  taking  up.— i^fr.v.  H.  K.  Givens,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 


iKJiS 


GENEEAL    DIRECTIONS. 

In  making  cake  it  is  quite  necessary  that  the 
materials  be  of  the  best  quality.  Sweet  butter,  fresh 
eggs  and  good  flour  are  the  first  requisites.  Never  al- 
low the  butter  to  oil :  put  it  in  an  earthen  dish  and  add 
your  sugar;  beat  them  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of 
eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  milk,  and  lastly  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  flour.  Spices  and  liquors  may 
be  added  after  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  are  put  in,  and  the 
fruit  put  in  with  the  flour. 

For  small  cakes  the  oven  should  be  pretty  hot;  for 
larger  cakes  a  moderate  one.  To  ascertain  if  a  large 
cake  is  sufficiently  baked,  pierce  it  with  a  broom  straw 
or  knitting  needle,  if  done,  the  straw  will  come  out  free 
from  dough ;  if  not,  the  dough  will  adhere  to  it.  To 
prevent  the  cake  browning  too  soon,  have  a  paste-board 
with  a  few  holes  made  in  it  (with  a  fork),  lay  on  the 
top  of  the  pan.  Newspaper  will  not  answer,  being  too 
light  and  inflammable.  If  it  is  necessary  to  turn  or 
move  the  cake  in  the  oven,  do  it  very  gently.  If  the 
oven  is  too  hot,  do  not  leave  the  door  open,  but  lift  one 
of  the  stove  lids  off  a  little  way,  for  a  short  time.  Never 
put  the  cake  away  until  cold. 

ICINO  BOIL£D. 

One  pound   of  the  nicest   white   sugar,   crushed   or 
crystalized,  not  'powdered.      Four  very    large   spoon- 
fuls of  water.     I  use  a  large  kitchen  spoon.     Boil  until 
the  water  is  all  out.     Then  pour  slowly  on  the  whites  of 
92 


CAKES.  93 

four  eggs  that  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor 
with  extract  of  lemon  or  almond  if  you  prefer.  Add  a 
drop  of  blueing  vrater  ;  and  if  you  wish  the  icing  to  dry 
quickly  a  little  pulverized  citric  acid. 

If  cake  is  well  dredged  with  tiour  after  baking,  and 
then  carefully  wiped  before  the  icing  is  put  on,  it  will 
not  run,  andean  be  spread  more  smoothly.  The  cake 
after  being  iced  should  be  set  in  a  cool,  dry  place  to  dry. 
Mrs.  Dr.  T.  J.  Smith.  Fayette.  Mo. 

ICIWG  COI.D. 

Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  gradually 
half  a  pound  of  best  pulverized  sugar  ;  beat  well  for  at 
least  half  an  hour;  flavor  with  lemon  juice,  (some  add 
tartaric  acid,  as  both  whiten  the  icing).  To  color  a 
delicate  pink,  use  strawberry,  currant  or  cranberry  ; 
the  grated  peel  of  an  orange  or  lemon,  moistened  with 
the  juice  and  strained  through  a  thin  cloth,  will  give  it 
a  handsome  yellow.  This  amount  will  frost  one  large 
cake.— Jlfr^.  H.  A.  Norn's. 

CHOC'OIiATE  ICIXG. 

One  teacup  of  grated  chocolate,  two  cups  of  white 
sugar,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Boil  until  it  ropes  ; 
then  beat  until  cool  the  whipped  whites  of  four  eggs 
into  it.— Mrs.  E.  P.  Williams,  Fayette,  Mo. 

ICOO  WITHOUT  £GGiS. 

To  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch,  with  just 
enough  cold  water  to  dissolve  it,  add  a  little  hot  water, 
and  cook  in  a  basin  set  in  hot  water,  till  very  thick. 
Stir  in  two  and  two- third  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  while 
the  starch  is  hot ;  flavor  to  taste,  and  spread  on  cake 
while  it  is  hot.  This  will  never  crumble  in  cutting.— 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Firiks,  Salisbury,  Mo. 


94  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  the  same  of  butter, 
and  the  same  of  sug^ar.  One  dozen  eggs,  two  pounds  of 
best  raisins,  the  same  of  currants  and  citron.  Sprinkle 
all  well  with  flour.  Two  nutmegs,  two  lablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves.  One  wine 
glass  of  brandy  ;  half  a  wine  glass  of  rose  water  ;  citron 
put  in  last.  This  makes  two  large  cakes. — Mrs.  H.  A. 
Norris,  Fayette,  Mo. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar  ;  one  pound  of  butter  ;  one  pound 
of  flour;  twelve  eggs;  three  pounds  of  raisins;  one 
pound  of  citron  ;  three  nutmegs  ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  cinnamon  ;  dessertsj)Oonful  of  mace;  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  cloves ;  two  wine  glasses  of  French 
brandy  ;  one  of  claret. — Helen  Oeorgie  Carson,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

FRUIT  OR  BLACK  CAKE. 

Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter, 
one  pound  of  flour,  four  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of 
citron,  heaping  tablespoonfnl  of  cinnamon,  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  cloves,  dessertspoon  of  allspice,  three  nutmegs, 
teaspoon  of  mace.  All  these  spices  mixed  in  a  large 
goblet  of  whiskey.  The  last  thing  put  in  a  teaspoon  of 
soda  mixed  in  a  half  a  teacup  of  cream. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together  ;  then  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  part  of  the  flour,  and  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  well  beaten ;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the 
flour,  and  the  whiskey  with  spices.  Mix  all  thoroughly 
together  ;  cover  the  bottom  and  sides  of  cake  pan  with 
white  paper,  well  buttered.  The  fruit  well  dredged 
with  flour  must  be  added  just  before  pouring  into  the 
pan.  Bake  four  hours. — Mrs.  I.  P.  Hockaday,  Colnm- 
hia,  Mo. 


CAKES.  *-'o 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  llour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  half  pound 
of  butter,  whites  often  eggs,  one  teacup  of  cream,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  mixed  well  in  the  flour. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  together;  then  add  the  cream. 
After  beating  the  eggs  to  a  stiif  froth,  add  them  al- 
ternately with  the  flour  to  the  above  mixture.  Lastly 
add  two  pounds  of  raisins,  and  half  pound  of  citron, 
well  dredged  with  flour.— il/'r.s.  R.  C.  Clarli,  Fayette,  Mo. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  cups  of  pulverized  sugar, 
five  cups  of  flour,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sweet  cream,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two  of  cream  tartar,  or  three 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  or 
what  you  like  ;  add  one  pound  of  sweet  and  two  ounces 
of  bitter  almonds  blanched ;  one  pound  of  citron  cut 
fine;  one  grated  cocoanut ;  beat  the  almonds  in  a 
mortar  with  a  little  rose  water.  Flour  all  the  fruits 
well  with  a  small  portion  allotted  to  the  recipe.  Bake 
slowly.— Jfr5.  /.  L.  Morrison,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  one 
cup  of  molasses,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sweet  milk,  four 
of  flour,  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  nut- 
meg and  baking  powder. 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter, 
one  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and 
three  cups  of  flour.  Mix  alternately  with  the  above.— 
Mrs.  Carrie  Morrison,  Fayette,  Mo. 

HICKORY  XUT  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  two  of  sugar,   one  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  two  tablespoons   of  butter,  one   large   spoon   of 
baking  powder,  one  pint  of  hickory  nuts  cut  fine,  flavor 
with  vanilla  or  bitter  almonds.— Jtfr-s.  J.  L.   Morrison 
Fayette,  Mo. 


96  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

PRWrCE  OF  WAIiES  CAKE. 

The  whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  butter,  one  of  sour  cream,  four  cups  of  flour,  half 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  flavor  with  lemon.  The  yolks  of 
seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  of  malasses,  one  of  sour  cream,  flve  of  flour,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  of  spice,  one  nutmeg, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  one  of  whiskey.  The 
white  part  marbled  with  the  dark.  — Mrs.  Ccesar 
Ferguson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

POUBfD  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  eight  eggs.  Cream  the  butter,  and 
then  add  the  sugar;  stir  until  very  light;  then  break 
in  two  eggs,  and  sift  in  a  handful  of  flour.  Mix  well, 
then  put  in  two  more  eggs,  and  more  flour,  so  on  until 
all  are  used.  Flavor  with  rose  water.  Two  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder  in  the  flour. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Herndon, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  pints  of  flour,  sifted 
twice,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with 
lemon.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  until  v^ery 
light ;  then  add  the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff" 
froth ;  after  these  are  well  mixed,  add  flour  with  the 
baking  powder. — Mm.  J.  H.  Crump,  Fayette^  Mo. 


WHITE  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one- half 
pound  of  butter,  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  table- 
spoons of  cream,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  Price's 
baking  powder. — Mrs.  Nettie  Gannett,  Fayette,  Mo, 


CAKES.  97 

WHITE  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  the  whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  of  Price's  baking  powder.— /Mm  Georgie 
Carson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

WHITE  €AKE. 

Four  cups  of  white  sugar,  whites  only  of  sixteen  eggs, 
one  even  cup  of  butter,  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  five  even  cups  of  Hour,  sifted 
five  times ;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  a  little  of  the 
whites,  which  must  be  well  beaten ;  then  add  the  liour, 
then  milk,  after  stirring  well,  add  the  baking  powder, 
which  must  be  sifted  lightly  into  the  batter  ;  flavor  with 
almond  and  use  cut-loaf  sugar. — Mrs.  Lucy  A.  Boone, 
Jefferson  City,  Mo. 

GOIiI>  CAKE. 

Yolks  only  of  sixteen  eggs,  two  even  cups  of  sugar, 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
four  even  cups  of  Hour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Cream  butter,  beat  yolks  lightly  with  sugar,  add  eggs; 
beat  until  light;  add  Hour  and  powder,  then  milk;  put 
paper  in  pans  and  grease  well.  The  two  recipes  make 
four  cakes. 

CHOICE  FIG  CAKE. 

A  large  cup  of  butter,  two  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  of 
sweet  milk,  three  pints  of  ilour,  with  three  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  whites  of  sixteen  eggs;  one  pound  and 
a  quarter  of  figs  well  floured  and  cut  in  strips  like 
citron  ;  no  flavoring. — "  Bualieye  Cookery.'''' 

WHITE  TEA  CAKE. 

The  whites  of  four  eggs,  two  cuj^s  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  sifted  in  the  flour:  flavor 
as  you  please. — Mrs.  Leland,  Wriglit,  Boonville,  Mo. 


98  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

SII.VER  BUXX  CAKE. 

One  good  pound  of  flour,  one  good  pound  of  sifted 
white  sugar,  one-half  a  pound  of  butter,  whites  of  ten 
eggs,  one  teacup  of  cream,  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar,  one  of  soda;  stir  the  butter  into  the 
sugar,  put  soda  into  milk,  add  it  to  butter  and  sugar 
after  it  is  well  mixed  ;  put  cream  of  tartar  into  tlie  flour. 
After  beating  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stifli"  froth,  add 
them  alternately  with  the  flour,  to  the  above  mixture ; 
flavor  as  you  please.  This  is  a  never  failing  receipt.— 
Mrs.  Dr.  T.  J.  8mitTi,  Fayette,  Mo. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs  ;  three  cups  even  full  of  sugar, 
five  cups  of  flour,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sweet  cream,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. — Mrs.  Dr.  U.  8.  Wright, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 

cream,  iive   cups   of  flour,  three    teaspoons   of  baking 

powder,   whites   of  twelve   eggs. — Mrs.  John  Ricketts, 

Fayette,  Mo. 

AiSTGEES'  FOOD. 

Whites  of  eleven  eggs  ;  one  and  a  half  tumbler  sifted, 
granulated  sugar,  one  tumbler  sifted  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar ;  sift 
flour  four  times,  then  add  tlie  cream  of  tartar  and  sift 
again,  but  measure  before  putting  in  the  cream  of  tar- 
tar;  sift  tlie  sugar  and  measure  it;  to  the  eggs  add  the 
sugar  lightly,  then  the  flour,  then  vanilla,  beating  con- 
stantly till  put  in  the  pan.  Bake  forty  minutes  in 
moderate  oven,  on  a  pan  that  has  never  been  greased. 
The  tumblers  must  hold  two  and  one-fourth  gills. — Mrs. 
Sides,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  six  eggs;  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of 
sugar,  three-fourths  cup   of  butter,  (light)  two  cups  of 


CAKES.  99 

flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  yeastpowder;  flavor  with, 
lemon  extract;  cream  butter  well  and  mix  flour  with 
ii. ;  oeai  whices  to  a  stl^  fiOt/u,  and  add  sugax  grduual- 
ly;  add  sugar  and  whites  to  flour  and  butter. — Mrs. 
Nannie  Lay,  Jefferson  City,  Mo. 

DOI.L.Y  V.IRDEX  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  whites 
of  three  eggs,  one  small  cup  of  milk,  flour  enough  to 
make  it  tlie  consistency  of  cup  cake ;  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  Price's  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  almond 
flavoring.  Bake  in  square  tin  pans.  Icing :  Yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  |,'iilvei"i^^*3.  starch,  whipped 
into  the  eggs  thoroughly  ;  add  pulverized  sugar  till  it 
is  as  stiff  as  icing ;  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract ;  spread 
smoothly  on  cake  and  put  it  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  I. 
H.  Rearson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SPOXGE  CAKE. 

Seven  eggs ;  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  of  flour ;  beat 
yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together  till  very  light,  then 
add  the  whites  of  eggs,  then  stir  in  flour  very  lightly  ; 
flavor  with  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  lemon  extract. — Mrs. 
E.  Major,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SPOXGE  CAKE. 

Nine  eggs ;  one  pound  of  sugar,  nine  ounces  of  flour, 
juice  of  one  lemon. — Miss  Jessie  Payne. 

DRIED  APPIiE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  dried  apples,  one  of  molasses,  one  of 
sugar,  two  and  a  half  of  flour,  one- third  cup  of  butter, 
one  ^%^,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half  cup  of  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves ;  soak  the  apples  over 
night,  then  simmer  for  two  hours  in  the  molasses ;  mix 
the  ingredients,  putting  in  the  apples  and  molasses 
last;  bake  in  a  cake  mould. — Mrs.  Dr.  J.  J.  Watts, 
Fayette,  Mo. 


.IiJiS^/>- 


HASH  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  silver  biinn  cake,  baked  in  layers. 
Filling. — One  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  pounded; 
one  pound  of  pecans,  powdered ;  half  a  pound  of 
raisins,  seeded ;  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron,  the  same 
of  figs,  juice  of  two  oranges,  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  make 
icing  of  whites  of  five  eggs  and  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
sugar  ;  chop  the  fruit  fine,  stir  in  two-thirds  of  icing, 
then  add  nuts  and  fiavoring ;  spread  in  tliick  layers ; 
use  the  remainder  of  icing  outside,  ornamenting  the  top 
of  cake  with  some  of  the  almonds  reserved. — Mrs.  M.  O. 
Burton,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CARAMEIi  CAKE. 

Make  layers  of  au}^  nice  white  cake.  Filling. — Three 
cups  of  coff'ee  C.  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a 
half  cup  rich  cream ;  boil  until  quite  thick,  stirring 
quite  frequently  ;  then  spread  thickly  between  the 
layers  of  white  cake  and  also  over  the  top.  It  ought 
to  boil  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  After  taking  from  the 
fire,  pour  into  a  bowl  and  beat  till  thick,  just  as  you  do 
icing. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Findley,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

RAISIN  CAKE. 

One  teacup  of  butter,  two  of  white  sugar,  four  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonfids  of  baking  powder ;  whites  of  eight 
eggs ;  teacup  of  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  rolled  in 
flour,  and  then  mixed  well  in  the  batter ;  flavor  with 
lemon.  Bake  in  jelly  pans  and  put  icing  between  the 
layers. — Mrs.  Fannie  Boone,  Fayette,  Mo. 

100 


LAYER  CAKES.  101 


BOW  TOW  CAKE. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs  ;  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  of  flour, 
three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  Price's 
baking  ])owder. 

Filling. — One  and  a  half  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded 
and  cut  flne;  one  pound  of  figs,  cut  flne  ;  put  into  a 
pan  and  add  one-half  pint  of  good  brandy,  with  enough 
water  to  make  it  soft  enough  for  a  jelly  ;  put  on  the 
fire  and  mix  well  with  your  hand  while  it  is  warm. — 
Miss  Gable  Darby.,  Hotoard  county,  Mo. 

CHOCOLATE  FII.MXG  FOR  CAKE. 

Half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate  sifted,  one  pound  of 
white  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-fourth  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring. 
Put  tlie  sugar,  milk  and  butter  in  a  small  kettle  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  it  occasionally  ;  then  add  the 
chocolate  and  let  it  cook  until  thick  enough  to  spread 
nicely  ;  add  the  vanilla  after  it  is  taken  from  fire. — Mis. 
J.  W.  Kllpatrlck. 

liEiUOW  BUTTER. 

Dissolve  one  cupful  of  sugar  in  the  juice  of  a  large 
lemon ;  beat  three  eggs  very  light,  mix  well  with  the 
sugar ;  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  added  to  the 
mixture  ;  boil  till  very  thick,  stirring  constantly  ;  place 
between  layers  of  cake  flavored  with  lemon. — Mrs, 
Wllcoxon,  Fayette.,  Mo. 

L.EMOW  FIL.EIXG. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  ^%^.,  one  large  apple  grated; 
the  inside  of  one  lemon,  half  the  rind  grated  in;  cook 
after  mixing;  let  it  get  cold  before  using. — Mrs.  John 
L.  Morrison^  Fayette,  Mo. 

I.E:fIOX  FIIililXG. 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  large  lemons,  put 
in  the  oven  and  baked  until  soft ;  squeeze  the  juice  into 
the  sugar  and  eggs.     Set  the  stew  pan   in  a  pan  of  hot 


102  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


water  and  cook  till  very  thick,  stirring  frequently. — 
Miss  Pensie  Darhy,  Howard  county,  Mo. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  Hour,  one-half 
pound  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream,  whites  of 
ten  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  mixed  well 
with  the  flour ;  cream  sugar  and  butter  until  very  light, 
then  pour  in  the  cream,  add  the  flour  and  eggs.  Bake 
in  layers. 

Filling. — Make  boiled  icing  of  one  pound  of  sugar 
and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  ;  into  this  squeeze  the  juice 
of  two  oranges  and  one  lemon,  using  the  grated  rind  of 
one  orange  and  one-half  of  the  lemon  ;  then  stir  in  pul- 
verized sugar  until  thick  enough  to  spread  nicely. — 
Mrs.  R.  C.  Clark,  Fayette,  Mo. 

FRENCH  CREAM  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  and  three  eggs,  beaten  together  till 
very  light ;  one  and  three-fourths  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  well  mixed  with  the  flour  by 
sifting  several  times ;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling 
water.     Bake  in  two  cakes. 

Custard  or  Cream. — Take  nearly  one  pint  of  milk  ; 
when  nearly  boiling  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch, moistened  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  two  eggs, 
nearly  one  cup  of  sugar  beaten  together  well.  While 
cooking,  stir  constantly,  till  it  will  drop  from  the  spoon 
without  running.  Take  from  the  stove  ;  add  half  a  cup 
of  butter,  melted  ;  flavor  to  your  taste.  Turn  cakes  out 
on  a  moulding- board,  and  when  cold,  split  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  spread  the  cream  between. — Nannie  Keyser, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
water,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  yeast  powder. 


LA  YER  CAKES.  103 


FllliRg. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  three  tiiblespoonfuls  of  flour  stirred  in  a 
little  cold  milk.  Put  eggs,  sugar  and  milk  together  and 
when  at  boiling  point,  stir  in  thickening,  and  boil  until 
stift'  enough  to  drop  from  spoon  without  running.  Take 
off,  and  stir  into  this  one  tablespoonfiil  of  butter. 
Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mih.  Nannie  Lay,  Jefferson  City, 
Mo. 

WHITE  MOIIXTAIX  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
beaten  to  a  cream  ;  add  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  and 
a  half  cups  of  Hour,  two  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder  in  the  flour ;  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Bake  in 
jelly  tins  and  put  together  with  icing. 

Icing. — Boil  a  half  teacup  of  water,  and  three  teacups 
of  sugar  till  thick;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well, 
and  pour  over  it ;  beat  all  together  till  cool.  Sprinkle 
each  layer  thickly  with  grated  cocoanut,  and  also  upon 
the  outside  icing. — Mrs.  John  Henry,  Jefferson  City, 
Mo. 

CUSTARD  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  four  of  flour,  yolks  of  Ave  eggs, 
one  cup  of  cold  water,  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Filling. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
milk,  one  tablespoon  of  flour.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — 
Mrs.  H.  A.  Nor r is,  Fayette,  Mo. 

VEtVET  SPOXGE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  (leaving  out  the  whites 
of  three,)  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  two  and  a  half  cups 
of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  baking  powder  in  the  flour. 
Beat  the  yolks  a  little;  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  fifteen 
minutes ;  add  the  three  beaten  whites,  and  the  cup  of 
boiling  water,  just  before  the  flour;  teaspoon  of  lemon 
extract,  and  bake  in  three  layers,  putting  between  them 


104  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

icing  made  by  adding  to  the  three  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  ;  six  dessertspoons  of  pulverized  sugar  to 
each  Qgg.  Flavor  with  lemon. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Arline, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

CHOCOL.ATE  CAKE. 

The  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  butter,  three  full  cups  of  flour,  one  of  sweet  milk, 
three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  butter  to 
a  cream ;  stir  in  the  sugar;  beat  until  light;  add  the 
milk;  then  the  flour,  and  beat  in  whites.  When  Avell- 
beaten,  divide  into  equal  parts  ;  into  half  grate  a  cake 
of  sweet  chocolate.  Bake  in  laj^ers,  spread  with  custard, 
and  alternate  the  white  and  dark  cakes. 

Filling. — To  one  pint  of  milk  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter ;  when  come  to  a  boiling  heat,  stir  in  two  eggs 
beaten  with  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  add  two  teaspoons  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  a  little  milk. — Mrs.  W.   T.  Boioling., 

Fayette,  Mo. 

ICE-CREAH  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar;  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour ;  whites 
of  four  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
two-thirds  cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder.     Bakeinjell_y  tins. 

Filling. — Dissolve  one  cup  of  sugar  in  water,  boil  till 
brittle;  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  well;  beat 
till  cold  ;  then  teaspoon  of  tartaric  acid,  place  between 
cakes. — Mrs.  L.  N.  JacJison,  Monroe  City.  Mo. 

jLEMON  JEIiEY  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  three  of  sugar,  five  of  flour,  one  of 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  whites  of 
eight  eggs.     Bake  in  jelly  cake  pans. 

Filling. — Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  flour, 
one-half  cup  of  water,  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  grated 
peel  of  one.  Boil  this  until  thick  and  place  while  warm 
between  the  cake. — Mrs.  Dr.  J.  J.  Watts,  Fayette,  Mo. 


LAYER  CAKES.  105 


RIBBOX  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  four 
cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
one-lialf  teaspoon  of  soda.  Have  ready  two  tins  alike  ; 
put  one-tliird  of  the  mixture  in  each,  and  bake.  To  the 
other  third,  add  three  teaspoons  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
currants,  and  citron  and  spices  to  suit  the  taste ;  and 
bake  in  a  tin  the  same  as  the  others.  When  done  put 
alayerof  the  light  cake,  then  spread  with  jelly;  tlien 
the  dark  cake;  jelly  and  the  light  cake  on  to^.— Mrs. 
H.  K.  ITincle,  Howard  College,  Fayette,  Mo. 

PRINCE  OF  WAI.es  cake. 

1.  BlacTi  Part.— OwQ  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  cup 
butter,  half  cup  sour  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  of 
chopped  raisins,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  of 
molasses,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  cinna- 
mon, one  of  nutmeg,  half  a  one  of  cloves. 

2.  White  Fart.— One  cup  of  flour,  one  of  butter,  half 
a  cup  cornstarch,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  yeast  powder,  whites  of  three 
eggs.  Bake  both  in  jelly  tins,  put  together  with  icing.— 
Mrs.  Dr.  T.  J.  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 

AI.MOXI>  CAKE. 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter, 
three  cups  of  flour,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.     Beat  butter  to  cream ;  stir  in  the 
sugar;  beat  until  light;  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour, 
beat  in  whites. 

jrniinf/.— One  pound  of  sweet  almonds  (blanch  and 
chop  them),  one  cup  sour  cream,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
tpaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat  all  together  and  put  be- 
tween lnyevs.—Mrs.  John  Noland,  Independence,  Mo. 


-^fui:x*gae:.es 


COFFEE  CAKE. 

Two  ciij)s  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of 
molasses,  one  of  strong  coffee,  as  prepared  for  the  table, 
four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  grated  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  of 
currants,  four  of  flour.  Bake  slowly  at  first,  bake  two 
hours.—  Mrs.  E.  W.  Bedford,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CUP  CAKE. 

One  coffee-cup  of  sour  cream,  one  of  butter,  two  of 
sugar,  four  of  flour,  five  eggs,  small  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  very  light; 
then  add  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  then  the  other  in- 
gredients.— Mrs.  J.  D.  Tolson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

GIXGER  BREAD. 

.  Beat  a  cupful  of  buttermilk  until  it  is  creamy,  add  to 
it  two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  New  Orleans 
molasses,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one  of  ginger, 
one  nutmeg  grated,  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  a  cup- 
ful of  cream  or  milk,  in  wliich  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
has  been  well  dissolved.  When  all  the  ingredients  have 
been  well  mixed  add  five  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour.  Beat 
vigorously,  then  stir  in  a  pound  of  currants.— Jir^. 
Juliette  Flndlay,  Lexington,  Mo. 

SOFT  GIXGEB  BREAD. 

One  and  a  half  teacups  of  brown  sugar,  the  same  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  butter  or  lard,  four  cups  flour 
(heaping),  four  eggs,  one  teacup  sour  cream,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  ginger  to  taste. — Mrs.  George  Bough- 
ner,  Fayette,  Mo. 

106 


PLAIN  CAKES.  107 


OI]VO£R  BREAD. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter,  the  same  of  brown  sugar,  the 
same  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  three  eggs,  two 
and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoonfiils  of  ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  cloves.  Beat  hard  and  long.— Josephine  Harrison, 
Denver,  Col. 

OIXO£R  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  three- 
fourths  of  a  quart  of  molasses,  half  a  teacup  of  sour 
cream,  with  half  a  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  cream, 
Ave  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  heaping  tablespoonfui 
of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  of  black 
pepper. — Mattie  Frazicr,  Fayette,  Mo. 

GIXG£R  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  New  Orleans  Molasses,  one  cup  of  boiling 
water,  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonfui 
ground  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Flour  to  make  a  thin  batter. — Mrs.  L.  M.  Findley,  St. 
Louis,  Mo. 

SOFT   GIXGER   BREA1>. 

One-half  pint  of  molasses  (sugar-house  is  best,)  one 
cup  of  sugar,  white  or  brown  ;  half  pound  of  butter, 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  our, 
one  tablespoonfui  of  ginger.  Make  stiff"  as  pound  cake  ; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Dr.  T.  J.  Smith,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

Oi:WOER  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  molasses,  one  cottee-cup  of  sugar,  one 
pint  sweet  lard,  three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  very 
small  cup  of  ginger,  half  a  cup  of  cinnamon,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  soda  put  in  flour.  Flour  enough  to  make 
them  roll  out  easily.  We  use  only  half  this  quantity. 
Mrs.  J.  W.  Kilpatriclc. 


108  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK.    • 

Gi:srGER    SWAPS. 

One  pint  of  molasses  one  of  butter,  tablespoonful  of 
ginger,  teaspoonfnl  of  cloves,  one  of  soda.  Put  all  over 
the  fire  together,  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  When  nearly 
cool  add  llour  enough  to  roll,  roll  thin,  cut  and  bake. — 
Mrs.  Miller  Reed,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SCOTCH  CAKES. 

Put  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  one 
pound  of  sifted  flour,  mix  in  a  pound  of  sifted  white 
sugar  and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  ;  mix  it  in 
a  dough  with  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Roll  out  very 
thin,  cut  into  round  cakes  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — 
Mrs.  Dr.  T.  J.  Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 


^GOOKIES?^ 

SWEET  CAKES. 

Three  cnps  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  lard,  one  of  butter, 
one  of  butter- milk,  three  eggs,  teaspoonful  of  soda,  five 
pints  of  flour,  half  a  wine  glass  of  whiskey.  Flavor  with 
imtmeg.— Mrs.  E.  Major,  Fayette,  Mo. 

COOKIES. 

One  egg,  beaten  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  butter  size  of 
a  goose  Qgg,  small  cup  of  cream,  (sour),  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda.  Lemon  and  nutmeg  for  flavoring.— ^/r^Z/e 
Smith,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SWEET  €AKES. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
thick  sour  cream,  three  cups  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda;  sufficient  flour  to  make  them  roll;  flavor  with 
nutmeg.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven.— Mrs.  Nettie  Gannett, 

Fayette,  Mo. 

CRUEEERS. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  five  eggs,  one-fourth  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  one  teacup  of  sweet  cream,  half  teaspoon  of 
soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar ;  flour  enough  to 
roll  nicely ;  fry  in  hot  lard ;  when  done  sprinkle  over 
them  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed.— l/r.s.  Row- 
ena  W.  Woods,  Fayette,  3Io. 

EEP  KUCIIEX. 

Take  one-half  gallon  of  sorghum  molasses,  one-half 
cup  each  of  allspice,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  ginger;  two 
nutmegs,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  one-half  pound  citron, 
three  pounds  of  pecans,  one  pint  of  sour  milk  and  one- 

^  109 


110  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

half  cup  of  soda,  one  quart  of  melted  lard ;  add  flour 
enough  to  make  dough  stiff"  enough  to  roll;  take  enough 
of  the  dough  to  cover  your  pan  and  roll  one-fourth  of 
an  inch  thick.  Bake  and  then  cut  in  squares,  and  ice 
while  warm. — Mrs.  Klatt.,  Fayette.,  Mo. 

GERMA^f  COOKIES. 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  of  lioney,  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  one 
pound  of  almonds,  (pounded)  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
citron,  (cut  flne)  half  a  glass  of  brandy,  two  ounces  of 
cinnamon,  half  ounce  of  cloves,  juice  and  pulp  of  two 
lemons  (cut  fine)  ;  mix  well,  and  bake  slowl}^ ;  sprinkle 
sugar  on  while  hot.  These  will  keep  a  long  time. — 
Mrs.  M.  C.  Burton,  Fayette,  Mo. 

DROP  CAKES. 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  flour,  half  pound  of  butter, 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  white  sugar,  one  handful  of 
currants,  two  eggs,  a  large  pinch  of  soda.  This  recipe 
will  make  about  thirty  cakes.  Drop  them  out  of  a 
tablespoon  on  a  buttered  tin,  or  stove  pan  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Dredge  currants  with  flour  before 
putting  them  in  the  mixture. — Mrs.  T.  J.  Payne,  Fay- 
ette, Mo. 

APIE  CAKES. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs ;  one  pound  of  pulverized  sugar ; 
half  a  pound  of  butter  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  in  four 
teaspooiifuls  of  sour  cream ;  add  flour  enough  to  i  oil 
easily  ;  sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  tops  of  cakes 
before  baking. — Mrs.  Carrie  Morrison,  Fayette,  Mo. 

I^ITTEE  CAKES. 

One  coffee-cup  of  buttei-,  two  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  in  a  small  cup  of  buttermilk  ;  nutmeg. — 
Mrs.  J.  W.  Kiljxttrieli. 


COOKIES.  Ill 


juilbi.es. 

Four  cups  of  sugar,  two  of  butter,  oue  of  milk  (but- 
termilk) one  teaspoonfiil  of  soda,  four  eggs,  one  nutmeg, 
flour  to  roll  very  lightly  ;  roll  sugar  on  top  with  rolling- 
pin.— J//-6-.  Mattle  Frailer,  Fayette,  Mo. 

SMALIi  XUT  CAKES. 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  pound  of 
pulverized  sugar,  one  pound  of  hickory  nut  kernels; 
beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  for  three-quarters  of  an' 
hour,  then  add  the  kernels.  Bake  on  well  greased  and 
well  floured  biscuit  pans,  in  a  tolerably  hot  oven  ;  drop 
them  out  of  a  large  kitchen  spoon.  This  recipe  makes 
seventy- five  or  eighty.  You  can  use  any  other  kind  of 
kernels  if  you  wish.  Flour  the  pans  after  greasing.— 
Mrs.  J.  W.  Kilpatrick,  Fayette,  Mo. 

MACAROO^fS. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  granulated,  one  pound  of  shelled 
almonds,  whites  of  four  eggs ;  put  the  almonds  into  hot 
water  until  the  skins  will  slip  off  easily,  then  dry  and 
beat  them  to  a  paste,  with  a  little  rose-water,  or  oil  of 
lemon  to  prevent  their  oiling;  beat  the  eggs  till  perfect- 
ly dry  and  light,  then  add  the  sugar  and  almonds. 
Bake  in  small  "cakes  in  slow  oven.— Jfr^.  Ma.mie  White 
Chinn,  FranTclin,  Mo. 

BOSTON  CREAM  CAKES. 

One  pint  of  water,  one-half  pound  butter,  three- 
fourths  pound  of  flour,  ten  eggs ;  boil  the  butter  and 
water  together;  stir  in  the  flour  when  boiling;  when 
cool,  add  the  eggs  and  soda,  the  size  ,of  a  pea ;  drop  by 
the  spoonful  on  a  buttered  baking  pan,  leaving  space 
so  that  the  cakes  will  not  touch  wiieu  risen.  Bake  in  a 
very  quick  oven,  about  ten  minutes  ;  when  cold,  make 
an  incision  at  the  side,  and  fill  with  the  following  cream  :' 


112  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

Six  gills  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  six  eggs ;  beat  the  flour,  sugar  and  eggs 
together,  and  stir  into  milk  while  boiling;  flavor  with 
lemon. — Mrs.  John  Shajfroth,  Fayette,  Mo. 

DOUGHWUTS. 

One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one-half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  five  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
two  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  flour 
enough  to  make  them  roll  out  nicely ;  flavor  as  you 
please  ;  roll  out  and  cut  in  different  shapes ;  fry  in  hot 
lard. — Mrs.  M.  Bridges,  Fayette,  Mo. 

DOrCiH^UTS. 

To  one  cup  of  good  yeast,  add  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  (large  measure) 
lard,  saltspoon  salt,  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  stir 
in  flour  until  stiff  enough  and  let  it  rise,  then  add  a 
Half  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  milk;  mix  stiff 
enough  to  roll  and  cut  out  to  suit  your  taste.  These 
require  a  little  more  time  to  cook  than  those  without 
yeast.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  and  when  done,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon. — Mrs.  Anne  Shaffroth, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

CREAM  DOUGHNUTS. 

Beat  one  cup  each  of  sour  cream  and  sugar  and  two 
eggs  together,  add  a  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  little  salt 
and  flour  enough  to  roll ;  fry  in  hot  lard  ;  flavor  with 
nutmeg. — Mrs.  E.  Major,  Fayette,  Mo. 

KNICKERBOCKER  CRUI.I.ERS. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  half 
teaspoon  soda,  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  small  cup  of 
milk;  flour  to  make  stiff;  roll  x&cy  thin;  use  cruller- 
cutter  in  making  cakes  about  three  inches  square,  with 
slits.     Frv  in  hot  lard. 


COOKIES.  113 


SUGAR  KISSES. 

Whites  of  live  eggs  well  beaten;  add  one  pound  of 
pulverized  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract ;  drop 
on  white  paper,  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

SCOTCH  WAFERS. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  one 
pound  of  Hour,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinna- 
mon ;  roll  thin,  and  bake  quickly  in  wafer  irons. 


GENERAL    DIEECTIONS   FOR    CANDY    MAKING. 

G-ranulated  sugar  is  preferable.  Candy  should  not 
be  stirred  while  boiling.  Cream  tartar  should  not  be 
added  until  the  syruj)  begins  to  boil.  Butter  should  be 
put  in  when  the  candy  is  almost  done.  Flavors  are  more 
delicate  when  not  boiled  in  the  candy. 

VAWII.I.A  CREAM  CAXDY. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  water, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  butter  size  of  a  wal- 
nut; flavor  with  vanilla;  boil  until  it  begins  to  thread, 
or  until  the  drops  are  somewhat  brittle  if  dropped  in 
cold  water;  pour  into  buttered  platters,  and  when  suffi- 
ciently cool,  pull. 

If  chocolate  flavoring  is  desired,  grate  it  over  the  hot 
candy,  or  place  some  melted  chocolate  in  it  before  pull- 
ing. A  pretty  variety  may  be  made  by  pulling  the 
vanilla  and  chocolate  candies  together  a  few  times ; 
thus  leaving  it  striped. 

CREAM  FOR  BON  BONS. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  water, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar;  flavor  with  vanilla; 
boil  until  drops  will  almost  keep  their  shape  in  water; 
then  pour  into  a  bowl,  set  in  cold  water;  stir  steadily 
with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon  until  cool  enough  to  bear 
the  hand  ;  then  place  on  a  platter  and  knead  until  of 
even  texture ;  if  too  hard,  a  few  drops  of  warm  water 
may  be  stirred  in  ;  if  too  soft,  it  must  be  boiled  again. 

114 


CONFECTIONERY.  115 


This  is  the  general  foundation  of  Cream  Bon  Bons ;  it 
may  be  flavored  witli  chocolate,  by  adding  a  tablespoon 
of  melted  chocolate  while  the  synii)  is  hot. 

TAFFY. 

Two  cups  of  ])rown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  four 
tablespoons  of  molasses,  two  tablespoons  of  water,  two 
tablespoons  of  vinegar;  boil  until  it  strings;  cover  the 
bottom  of  a  dish  with  nuts,  and  pour  the  candy  over, 
and  let  it  harden. 

BUTTER    SCOTCH. 

Three  pounds  coffee  A  sugar,  fourth  pound  butter, 
half  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  eight  drops  extract  of 
lemon  ;  add  as  much  cold  water  as  will  dissolve  the 
sugar;  boiling  without  stirring  till  it  will  easily  break 
when  dropped  in  cold  water,  and  when  done  add  the 
lemon  ;  have  a  dripping  pan  well  buttered  and  pour  in 
one-fourth  inch  thick,  and  when  partly  cold,  mark  off 
in  squares.  If  pulled  when  partl}^  cold  till  very  white, 
it  will  be  like  ice  cream  candy. 

COCOAXVT    CARAMEIiS. 

One  pint  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  cocoanut 
grated  fine,  three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  two  teaspoons 
lemon;  boil  slowly  until  stiff,  (some  then  beat  to  a 
cream) ;  pour  into  shallow  pans,  and  when  partly  cold 
cut  in  squares. 

HICKOBTSflJT  MACAROONS. 

Take  meats  of  hickorynuts,  pound  fine,  and  add 
mixed  ground  spice  and  nutmeg;  make  frosting  as  for 
cakes ;  stir  meats  and  spices  in,  putting  in  enough  to 
make  it  convenient  to  handle  ;  flour  the  hands  and  make 
the  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of  nutmegs ;  lay  them  on 
buttered  tins,  giving  room  to  spread.     Bake. 


116  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


WAL.NUT  CAWDY. 

Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream,  butter 
size  of  a  walnut;  boil  until  bubbles  are  large;  liave 
walnuts  cut  line  in  dish,  and  pour  candy  over  them. 
Beat  until  waxy,  and  cut  in  squares. 

One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  of 
soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  drop  on  tins 
and  sprinkle  over  with   powdered   sngar.      Bake  in  a 

quick  oven. 

CA^DY. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cup  water,  three 
tablespoons  rose  water ;  boil  twenty  minutes,  then  pull. 

COCOA:SflIT   CAXDY. 

Two  teacupfuls  of  white  sugar,  one -half  teacup  of 
sweet  cream,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  let  it  boil 
lifteen  minutes  ;  then  stir  in  as  much  cocoanut  as  you 
think  best.     Flavor  to  taste. 

cocoA:RfrT  ca:xi>y. 

One  large  cocoanut,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  coffee 
sugar.  Wet  sugar  with  cocoanut  milk  ;  when  thorough- 
ly dissolved,  put  in  the  grated  cocoanut;  boil  until  it 
ropes;  stir  till  it  begins  to  grain;  spread  on  platters. 
If  boiled  too  hard,  add  a  little  water,  and  repeat  pro- 
cess.— Marie  Howard,  Batama,  N.  Y. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  a  long  time,  until  it  will  harden 
quickly  when  put  in  a  saucer ;  then  put  in  the  nuts  and 
pour  in  a  buttered  pan. 


CONFECTIONERY.  117 

FIG,  DATE   AND  XUT  CAXDY. 

Take  the  white  of  one  large  ^gg,  and  an  equal 
quantity  of  cold  water;  put  them  together  in  a  bowl 
(without  beating  the  Qgg),  and  stir  in  confectioners' 
sugar,  until  thick  enough  to  knead  like  bread  dough; 
then  flavor  as  desired,  and  mould  in  any  shape  wished. 
If  not  stift' enough  after  adding  flavoring,  put  in  a  little 
more  sugai-.  The  cream  for  the  chocolates  is  made  in 
the  same  way,  "'Bitter  Almond  "  being  the  best  flavoring. 
Grate  the  chocolate  and  put  in  a  pan  which  is  set  over 
the  steam  of  a  teakettle;  when  melted,  drop  the  balls  of 
cream  in  it,  and  when  they  are  coated  take  out  with  a 
fork.  Put  them  on  the  bottom  of  a  tin  pan,  (that  is,  turn 
the  pan  upside  down,)  and  put  in  a  cool  place  ;  a  sharp, 
thin  knife  will  remove  them  easil3^  The  nut  candy  uses 
the  same  cream,  mixing  the  nuts  in  it;  and  with  the 
maple  sugar  candy,  adding  the  grated  maple  sugar. 
Roll  some  of  the  cream  balls  in  cinnamon.  They  are 
very  nice. — Mrs.  Mamie  White  Chinn.,  Howard  county, 
Mo. 

SUGAR  CAXDY. 

To  six  cups  of  sugar,  take  three  cups  of  soft  water,  six 
teaspoons  of  vinegar  ;  stir  until  well  dissolved  before  it 
is  put  on  to  cook.  Let  it  cook  until  a  little  dropped  in 
cold  water  will  snap.  Do  not  stir  at  all.  When  ready 
turn  out  on  buttered  plates,  put  in  a  cool  place  ;  it  can  be 
handled  in  about  Ave  minutes.  Pull  quickly  with  the 
fingers,  not  with  the  hands.  When  it  is  white  and  be- 
gins to  get  brittle,  stretch  on  a  mixing-board  and  cut  in 
lengths.  If  any  essence  is  desired,  put  it  in  as  it  is  cool- 
ing ;  vanilla  is  best. — Mrs.  B.  F.  Ferguson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

TO  SVGAR  OR  CRYSTAtlZE  POP-COR\. 

Put  into  an  iron  kettle  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  three 
tablespoons  of  water,  one  teacup  of  white  sugar;  boil 
until  ready  to  candy;   then  throw  in  three    quarts    of 


118  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


corn,  nicely  popped ;  stir  briskly  until  the  candy  is 
evenly  distributed  over  the  corn  ;  set  the  kettle  from  the 
lire,  and  stir  until  it  is  cooled  a  little,  and  you  will  have 
each  grain  crystalized  with  sugar.  Care  should  be 
taken  not  to  have  too  hot  a  fire,  lest  you  scorch  the  corn. 
N^uts  of  any  kind  may  be  treated  the  same  way. 

SAIiTED  PEAXrXS. 

Shell  them;  remove  the  skins;  put  them  into  a 
dripping  pan,  with  just  enough  butter  to  make  them 
glossy  ;  shake  the  pan  frequently  to  make  them  brown 
evenly.  When  the  nuts  are  brown,  sprinkle  with  salt. 
Salted  almonds  are  prepared  the  same  way,  except  that 
their  skins  do  not  rub  off  so  easily,  but  must  be  blanched 
by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them. 


^r;S^^i^S^^ 


DIRECTIONS. 

Use  pure  cider  vinegar  for  all  pickles.  Cook  in  porce- 
lain or  stone.  Keep  pickles  in  glass  or  stoneware .  Look 
them  over  once  a  month.  Throw  in  a  handful  of  sugar 
to  every  gallon.  At  this  time  if  any  are  soft,  throw  them 
out  and  pour  off  vinegar ;  scald  it  and  pour  over  while 
hot.  Keep  pickles  well  covered  with  vinegar.  If  you 
use  ground  spices,  tie  them  up  in  thin  muslin  bags. 

CUCUMBER  PICKI.E. 

Three  gallons  of  vinegar,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
one  pound  of  horseradish,  one-half  pound  of  race  ginger, 
one  pound  of  mustardseed  (white),  one  ounce  of  mace , 
one  ounce  of  nutmeg,  one  ounce  of  tumeric,  one  ounce 
of  spice,  two  ounces  of  celery  seed,  one-half  teacup  of 
salad  oil,  one  box  ground  mustard,  handful  of  whole 
black  pepper  and  cinnamon  each  ;  add  onions. — Ifrs. 
Odon  Guitar,  Columhla,  Mo. 

CUCUMBER  PICKI.E. 

Two  gallons  of  cucumbers  (small).  Three  and  a  half 
quarts  of  strong  apple  vinegar,  two  pints  granulated 
sugar,  six  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard,  six  of  white 
mustard,  six  of  cloves  and  spice,  each,  four  tablespoons 
of  celery  seed  and  tumeric,  each,  two  tablespoons  black 
pepper  (unground).  Boil  vinegar  with  seasoning  hfteen 
minutes,  then  pour  over  cucumbers  and  tie  up  while 
hot. — Mrs.  Mamie  Chirm,  Howard  county,  Mo. 

119 


120  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


PEPPER  MAXGOES. 

To  twenty-four  large  bell  peppers,  add  one  cabbage 
head,  and  four  onions,  chopped  line ;  two  ounces  mustard 
seed,  and  one  ounce,  each,  mace  and  allspice.  Cut  a  slit 
in  each  pepper,  take  out  seed,  and  let  stand  in  cold 
water  twelve  hours;  then  place  in  kettle  (lined  with 
vine  leaves) ;  pour  on  boiling  salt  water,  let  stand  two 
days  ;  then  repeat  after  four  days;  drain  and  stuff  with 
the  above  ingredients ;  sew  or  tie  up  ;  place  again  in 
kettle,  cover  with  vinegar  ;  let  come  to  a  boil ;  then  pack 
in  jars  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar.  Nutmeg  melons 
may  be  prepared  in  same  way,  with  addition  of  small 
cucumbers,  string  beans,  horseradish,  etc.,  etc.,  for  fill- 
ing.— Mrs.  Julia  A.  Pearson,  Fayette,  Mo.,  1851. 

SPAXISH  PICKIiE. 

One  gallon  green  tomatoes,  sliced ;  one  gallon  cab- 
bage, chopped  fine  ;  one  quart  onions,  quartered ;  one- 
half  pint  green  pepper ;  one  pint  grated  horseradish ; 
one  gill  salt ;  let  stand  all  night ;  then  drain  thoroughly, 
and  add  one  gallon  of  good  vinegar;  one  pound  sugar, 
one  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  cinnamon,  one  ounce  black 
pepper,  grains;  one-fourth  pound  each  of  white  mustard 
seed  and  ground  mustard  ;  one-half  ounce  each  of  mace 
and  tumeric.  Boil  till  clear;  stir  well. — Miss  SalUe 
Warden,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CHOPPED  TOMATO  PICKI.E. 

Two  gallons  of  green  tomatoes,  chopj)ed  fine ;  three 
quarts  of  good  vinegar,  one  pint  chopped  onions,  one 
pound  blown  sugar,  five  tablespoons  mustard  seed,  two 
tablespoons  each  of  salt,  spice  and  ground  pepper,  one 
tablespoon  of  cloves;  boil  altogether;  stir  often;  cook 
till  thick.  Excellent.— J/f6'.  N.  C.  Eiibanli,  Fayette, 
Mo. 


PICKLES.  121 

CABBAGE  PIC  KI.E. 

Three  poinids  brown  siigai  ;  oiie-lialf  poinul  each 
cliopped  onions  and  liorseradish  ;  one-half  pound  each 
white  race  ginger  and  white  mnstard  seed;  one-fourth 
pound  ground  cinnamon;  one  eighth  pound  mustard; 
one-half  ounce  each  of  mace  and  tumeric;  one  table- 
spoon black  pepper  ;  one-half  bottle  salad  oil;  three  nut- 
megs ;  nine  cabbage  heads,  quartered.  Let  cabbage 
stand  in  salt-water  twenty-four  hours,  drain  and  put 
out  to  d] y  ;  when  dry,  place  in  weak  vinegar,  to  which 
the  half  ounce  tumeric  has  been  added  ;  let  stand  two 
or  three  days,  pour  off;  pour  boiling  water  over  ginger, 
let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  slice  thin  and  dry;  scrape 
horseradish  and  dry.  Dissolve  the  brown  sugar  in  two 
gallons  good  vinegar;  pour  out  the  other  things  to  make 
into  paste  with  the  salad  oil.  Mix  altogether;  cover 
close. — Mrs.  TTieodore  Woods,  Fayette,  Mo. 

YEEEOW  PICKEE. 

One  peck  quartered  cabbage;  place  in  vessel,  with 
layer  ol  cabbage,  one  of  salt;  let  stand  all  night; 
squeeze  out,  add  four  onions,  cover  with  vinegar;  boil 
one  hour  ;  then  add  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  ounces 
black  pepper,  two  ounces  celery  seed,  one  ounce 
tumeric,  one-half  ounce  mace,  four  tablespoons  ground 
mustard,  one  of  allspice,  a  few  pieces  of  ginger,  a  few 
cloves  ;  boil  another  hour,  use  when  cold. — Mrs.  Louisa 
A.  Smith,  St.  Agnes'  Hall,  Macon  county,  Mo. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Two  large  heads  of  cabbage,  six  onions,  twelve 
cucumbers,  cut  in  small  pieces;  i)ut  in  vessel  with 
layers  of  salt  alternately,  over  night;  then  drain 
thoroughly  and  add  one  gallon  good  vinegar;  two 
pounds  brown  sugar,  one  of  grated  horseradish,  one-half 
pound  each  of  white  mustardseed  and  ground  mustard, 
four  ounces  of  ground  black  pepper,  one  ounce  each  of 


122  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


celery  seed,  ground  cinnamon  and  tumeric;  set  over  a 
slow  fire  two  hours. — Mrs.  L.  A.  Smitli,  St.  Agnes'' 
Hall,  Macon  county,  Mo. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

One  large  head  of  cabbage,  twelve  cucumbers,  one- 
fourth  peck  green  tomatoes,  six  onions,  one-half  pint 
grated  horseradish  ;  half  pound  white  mustard  seed  ; 
two  tablespoons  of  celery  seed ;  half  teacup  brown 
sugar ;  fourth  teacup  each  of  tumeric,  cinnamon  and 
ground  pepper.  Cut  cabbage,  cucumbers  and  onions 
in  small  pieces;  pack  in  salt  over  night,  drain  thor- 
oughly ;  mix  all  ingredients  together;  pour  vinegar  over 
them  boiling  hot,  for  three  mornings.  The  third 
morning  mix  a  small  box  of  mustard  with  a  pint  of 
olive-oil,  and  add  while  pickle  is  hot,  and  seal. — Mi's. 
John  Noland,  Independence,  Mo. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Two  gallons  cucumbers,  out  of  brine  ;  soak  two  days 
in  water;  two  heads  of  cabbage ;  thirty-six  onions, 
chopped  up,  and  soaked  in  weak  brine  over  night. 
When  these  are  ready  drain  well  and  dvy  in  sun. 
When  dried,  cut  cucumbers  in  small  strips.  Then  take 
two  gallons  good  vinegar,  one  box  (50  cts  box)  Cole- 
man's Mustard,  one  and  one-half  pounds  sugar,  two 
ounces  tumeric,  two  ounces  celery  seed,  two  ounces 
white  mustard  seed ;  let  come  to  a  boil,  add  cucumbers 
and  cabbage  and  one  large  bottle  of  salad  oil.  Boil 
five  minutes,  tie  up  tight. — Mrs.  Nettie  Gannett, 
Fayette,  Mo. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

One  quart  large  cucumbers,  chopped  fine  and  peeled  ; 
one  quart  small  cucumbers,  whole;  one  quart  white 
onions ;  one  quart  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine;  one 
quart  green  beans,  broken  in  small  pieces  and  cooked 
tender  ;  one  quart  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces  ;  one  quart 


PICKLES.  123 

cauli-tlower  or  good  sized  cabbage,  cliopped  line;  six 
green  peppers.  Mix  ingredients;  let  stand  in  weak  salt 
water  twenty -fonr  hours,  then  scald  in  some  water  till 
cabbage  is  done,  then  drain  well.  Take  one  small  cup 
of  liour,  one  and  one-half  cup  of  white  sugar,  six 
tablespoons  ground  mustard,  one  of  tumeric,  one  of 
celery,  mix  well ;  add  two  quarts  cider  vinegai',  and  boil 
till  the  flour  is  cooked  ;  seal  immediately.  In  measuring, 
a  quart  means  after  it  is  chopped. — Bettie  Tiitt  Duiia- 
nay,  Oswego,  Kan. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 
Thirty-six  large  size  tomatoes ;  four  large  onions, 
chopped  line  ;  six  green  peppers  (seed  taken  out),  and 
then  chopped  ;  one-fourth  pound  white  mustard  seed,  or 
ground  mustard ;  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  brown 
sugar  ;  three  pints  cider  vinegar  ;  one  ounce  each,  allspice 
and  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Peel  tomatoes;  cook  well; 
strain  through  a  colander ;  add  two  tablespoons  salt  and 
the  other  ingredients,  and  cook  one  hour. — Mrs.  John 
D.  Tolson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

EYE-OPENER  CATSUP. 

To  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  add  one  dozen  onions  ; 
cover  with  vinegar  ;  boil  till  tender.  Rub  through  a 
sieve  ;  add  spice  to  taste;  also  more  vinegar;  return  to 
kettle  and  boil  to  the  consistency  of  catsup.  If  pre- 
ferred, two-third  pepper  catsup  and  one-third  tomato 
catsup  makes  a  good  catsup.— J/V,?.  H.  A.  JVorris, 
Fayttte,  Mo. 

RIPE    TO^ttATO    CATSUP. 

Cut  up  one  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes ;  salt  down  twelve 
hours  ;  boil  until  done  ;  strain  through  a  tine  sieve  ;  return 
to  kettle  and  cook  till  thick  ;  add  two  ounces  each, 
cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves,  three  grated  nutmegs, 
one  ounce  mace,  one  quart  brandy  when  cold. — Mrs. 
Martha  Elliott,  Howard  County,  Mo  . 


124  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


TOMATO  CATSUP. 

One  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  skinned ;  boil  soft;  press 
through  a  colander;  add  one-half  ounce  race  ginger; 
two  tablespoons  ground  pepper;  one  spoon  each, 
powdered  allspice  and  cloves  ;  boil  slowly  two  or  three 
hours  After  taking  from  fire,  add  one- third  cup  ground 
mustnrd  put  into  a  little  of  the  mixture  ;  then  stir  in  tlie 
whole  ;  add  pint  of  vinegar  ;  stir  well ;  bottle  and  seal. — 
Mrs.  L.  8.  Prosser,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

To  one  gallon  ripe  tomatoes,  add  one  'quart  chopped 
onions,  five  small  green  j^eppers;  eight  tablespoons 
sugar;  one  of  ground  ginger;  one  of  cinnamon,  two  of 
salt ;  one  teaspoon  cloves;  one  half  gallon  vinegar  ;  boil 
thick;  seal  hot.— J/r.s.  N.  C.  Eubank,  Fayttte,  Mo. 

GREEX  TOMATO  SWEET  PICKIiE. 

Eight  j)Ounds  of  tomatoes,  chopped  fine  ;  four  pounds 
brown  sugar  ;  boil  three  hours,  then  add  one  quart  good 
vinegar  ;  one  teaspoon  each,  mace,  cloves  and  cinnamon  ; 
boil  fifteen  minutes;  let  cool  ;  put  in  jars. — Mrs.  M .E. 
Jackson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

WATERMEI.OX  SWEET  PICKI.E. 

Melon  rind,  two  pounds,  boil  in  clear  water  till  tender, 
drain  well ;  make  a  syrup  of  two  pounds  of  white  sugar, 
one  quart  good  vinegar,  one  ounce  cinnamon,  one  ounce 
each  of  mace  and  white  ginger;  boil  syrup  thick  ;  pour 
over  melon,  repeat  this  three  days,  and  it  is  ready  for 
use. — 3frs.  John  E.  Ryland,  Lexington,  Mo. 

FIG   SWEET  PICKI.E. 

To  seven  pounds  of  figs,  take  four  pounds  of  sugar; 
one  quart  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon,  a 
little  mace.  (Cloves  are  nice  but  they  make  the  pickle 
dark).     Let  the  figs  soak  in  cold  water  for  twelve  hours. 


PICKLES.  12 

then  drain  off  tlie  water,  and.  after  you  have  boiled  the 
syrup  till  done,  then  drop  the  ligs  in,  and  remove  from 
the  lire  at  once.  Let  the  pickle  stand  several  days 
before  using. — Miss  Enna  Dams,  Fayette,  Mo. 

PEACH  SWEET  PICKIiE. 

Peaches,  one  peck;  scald  in  weak  lye  till  onter  skin 
rubs  off  easily.  Make  a  syrup  of  seven  pounds  of 
sugar  and  one  cup  of  water ;  drop  peaches  in  and  boil 
till  done  to  seed  ;  take  out  peaches  and  boil  syrup  till 
thick  ;  add  one  quart  of  apple  vinegar  or  brandy  and 
spice  to  taste. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Norris,  Fayette,  Mo. 

TO  PICKI.E  PEARS,  PI^VMS,  GRAPES  AXD  CRAB- 

APPI.ES. 

Ten  pounds  fruit  (pare  pears);     four    and   one-half 

pounds  white  sugar ;  one  quart  cider  vinegar ;  one  ounce 

each,   mace,  cinnamon,   cloves  and  race   ginger.     Lay 

fruit  in  sugar  over  night ;  if  plums  or  grapes  prick  them. 

Next  morning  put  all  together,  cook  till  done.     Take 

out  fruit;  boil  sugar  thirty  minutes ;  pour   over  fruit' 

seal  \\ot.—MTS.  M.  C.  Burton,  Fayette,  Mo. 

TO  PICKI.E  CHERRIES. 

Fill  a  glass  jar  with  large  ripe  cherries  on  the  stems ; 
fill  up  with  best  cold  vinegar ;  do  not  cook.— Mrs.  M.  C. 
Burton,  Fayette,  Mo. 


GENERAL    DIEECTIONS. 

To  insure  success  in  preserving,  the  fruits  must  be 
carefully  selected.  Care  should  be  taken  to  remove  all 
bruised  or  decayed  parts,  as  they  would  darken  the 
syrup.  Fruit  requiring  to  be  pared  should  be  laid  in 
water  to  preserve  the  color  after  paring.  The  best  sugar 
is  the  cheapest.  The  usual  proportion  in  making  pre- 
serves is  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit;  but  in 
fruits  not  very  acid,  such  as  peaches,  apples  and  pears, 
three-quarter  of  a  pound  to  a  pound  of  fruit  is  sufficient. 
The  syrup  should  always  be  boiled  and  skimmed  before 
putting  in  the  fruit.  Fruit  should  be  cooked  in  brass 
kettles  or  those  of  bell  metal.  Modern  kettles,  lined 
with  porcelain,  are  much  used  for  this  purpose.  Never 
use  tin,  iron  or  pewter  spoons  as  skimmers,  as  they  will 
injure  the  color  of  the  syrup  and  impart  a  very  un- 
pleasant flavor.  Glass  jars  are  best  for  preserves,  as 
the  condition  of  the  fruit  can  be  observed  more  readily. 
They  should  be  kept  in  a  dark  place,  for  the  chemical 
action  of  light  will  aff'ect  the  quality  of  the  preserves 
when  perfectly  air-tight. 

PRESERVED  PEACHES. 

Weigh  the  peaches,  and  allow  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  After  they  have 
been  pared  and  the  stone  removed,  sprinkle  sugar  over 
the  fruit,  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain  off  the  syrup  from  the  fruit;  add  the  rest  of  the 
sugar,  and  let  that  come  to  a  boil.  Put  the  peaches  in, 
and  let  them  boil  until  you  can  stick  a  straw  through 
them. 

126 


FRUITS.  127 

PRESERVED  PEARS. 

Preserved  pears  aie  put  lip  precisely  as  are  peaches. 
Cut  in  halves  and  remove  the  core  ;  they  can  be  more 
easily  pared  if  boiling  water  is  poured  over  them,  and 
let  stand  for  a  while. 

PRESERVED  QUIXCES. 

Use  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  quinces,  after 
paring,  coring,  and  quartering ;  take  half  of  the  sugar 
and  make  a  thin  syrup  ;  boil  In  this  a  fev7  of  the  quinces 
at  a  time  till  all  are  linished.  Make  a  rich  syrup  of  the 
remaining  sugar,  and  pour  over  them. 

PRESERVED  APPEES. 

Apples  are  preserved  just  the  same  as  peaches,  ex- 
cept when  the  fruit  is  added  put  in  two  or  three  pieces 
of  race-ginger  and  several  pieces  of  orange  peel,  cut  in 

strips. 

PRESERVED  CRAB  APPEES. 

Wash  and   pick  blows  off,  but  leave  stems  on  your 

crab  apples.     Take  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  there 

are  pounds  of  fruit ;  add  a  little  water  to  dissolve;  put 

in  part  of  fruit  at  a  time;  when   the  apples  begin  to 

crack,  skim  out  into  a  jar  ;  when  all  are  done  boil  syrup 

a  few  moments,  and  skim;  then  pour  over  fruit,  keep 

dry  and  cool. 

PRESERVED  C'lTRO!^. 

The  citron  can  be  pared,  cored  and  sliced,  or  cut  into 
fancy  shapes  with  cutters  which  are  made  for  the  pur- 
pose. To  six  pounds  of  citron  use  six  pounds  of  sugar, 
four  lemons,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger  root. 
Put  tlie  slices  of  lemon  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil 
them  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  they  look  clear  in  a  little 
clear  water ;  then  drain  them ;  save  the  water,  and  put 
the  slices  into  anothei  dish  with  a  little  cold  water; 
cover  tliem,  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing  wrap  the  ginger  root  (bruised)  in  a  thin  muslin 


128  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


cloth ;  boil  it  in  three  pints  of  clear  water  until  the  water 
is  highly  flavored,  when  take  out  the  bag  of  ginger. 
Having  broken  up  the  loaf  sugar,  put  it  into  the  pre- 
serving kettle  with  the  ginger  water.  When  the  sugar 
is  all  melted  set  it  over  the  fire  ;  boil  and  skim  until  no 
more  scum  rises ;  then  put  in  the  pieces  of  citron  and 
the  juice  of  the  lemons.  Boil  them  in  the  syrup  till  all 
the  slices  are  quite  transparent.  Do  not  allow  them  to 
break;  when  done  put  them  into  the  jars,  pouring  the 
syrup  carefully  over  them.  If  one  desires  to  imitate  the 
West  Indies  ginger  preserve,  the  slices  of  lemon  may 
not  be  added;  yet  they  are  a  pretty  addition. — From 
Mrs.  Henderson^ s  Cook  Book. 

TOMATOE  PRESERVES. 

Choose  little  red,  plump-shaped  tomatoes,  if  red  pre- 
serves are  desired;  and  the  small  yellow  ones  for  yellow 
preserves.  Peel  and  prick  them  with  a  large  needle ; 
boil  them  slowly  for  half  an  hour  in  preserving  syrup, 
with  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  every  two  pounds  of 
tomatoes;  add  also  a  little  bag  of  ginger  root;  then 
skim  out  the  tomatoes;  let  them  remain  two  or  three 
hours  in  the  sun  to  harden.  Put  the  white  of  an  Qg^ 
into  the  syrup  ;  boil  and  skim  well,  and  pour  it  over 
the  tomatoes.  The  old  rule  is  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit.  I  prefer  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
the  former  to  a  pound  of  the  latter.  The  yellow  tomatoes 
are  preferable. 

GRAPE  PRESERVES. 

Squeeze  with  your  fingers  the  pulp  from  each  grape. 
Put  the  pulps  on  the  fire,  and  boil  them  until  they  are 
tender ;  then  press  them  through  a  colander,  so  that  the 
seeds  may  be  taken  out;  now  add  the  skins  to  the  pulps 
and  juice.  Put  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  a  cupful  of  fruit, 
and  boil  all  together  until  of  a  thick  consistency.  Green 
grape  preserves  are  also  nice.     In  managing  the  green 


FRUITS.  129 

grapes,  halve  them,  and  extract  tlie  seeds  with  a  small 
knife.  Pnt  also  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  fruit.  Many 
prefer  the  green  to  the  ripe  grape  preserves. 

STRAWBERRY    PRESERVES. 

Select  the  berries  as  you  would  for  the  table.  Allow 
one  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  berries ;  add  to 
the  sugar  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  it  well;  let 
come  to  a  boil ;  then  add  the  fruit,  which  must  be  boiled 
about  half  an  hour;  then  lift  the  berries  out,  spread 
them  on  a  dish,  and,  when  the  syru^D  has  boiled  until 
thick,  pour  over  the  berries.  Set  them  in  the  sun  as  you 
would  jelly  until  cold.  Put  in  glass  jars  and  seal. — 
Mrs.  Cyrus  Tlioinpson,  Belleville,  111. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Put  the  berries  and  sugar,  pound  for  pound,  into  a 

preserving  kettle,    and  heat   slowly   till   the   sugar  is 

melted;  then  boil  rapidly  for  twenty  minutes  and  seal 

up  hot. 

CAXDIED  FRIITS. 

Boil  peaches,  pears,  apricots,  cherries,  or  almost  any 
fruits  dressed,  in  a  thick  syrup,  made  with  a  teacup  of 
water  to  each  pound  of  sugar,  until  tender.  Let  them 
remain  two  daj^s  in  the  syrup ;  then  take  them  out, 
drain  them,  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  each  piece  sepa- 
rately.    Dry  them  slowly  in  the  sun  or  in  an  oven  not 

too  warm. 

RASPBERRY  JAM. 

Use  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound 

of  berries.     Put  sugar  and  berries  in  preserving  kettle  ; 

stir  together  and  mash  until  there  is  syruj)  enough  to 

prevent   burning.     Let   boil    till,    by  takiug  some  out 

on  a  plate  to  try  it,  no  juice  gathers  about  it.     Then 

put  away  in  glass  jars,  or  stone  jar.s  are  very  nice. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM. 

You  make  exactly  as  raspberry  jam. 


130  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

MARIttAIiADES. 

To  make  marmalade,  very  ripe  fruit  should  be 
chosen.  For  peach,  pear,  green  grape,  pine-apple, 
quince  or  plum,  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  If  the  fruit  is  not  very  juicy 
add  a  little  water.  Stir  almost  constantly ;  when  the 
whole  begins  to  look  clear,  and  becomes  thick  b}^  cool- 
ing a  portion  of  it  on  a  plate,  it  is  done,  and  must  be 
put  into  jars  at  once. 

BRANDY  PEACHES. 

Use  cling-stone  peaches  ;  yellow  ones  we  like  best. 
Peel  them  and  cut  around  them  to  the  stone,  but  not 
enough  to  divide  them.  Make  a  syrup  with  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  half  a  tea- 
cup of  water  for  each  pound  of  sugar ;  skim  as  it  boils 
as  long  as  the  scum  rises  ;  then  put  in  the  peaches  and 
boil  until  tender.  Take  them  out  carefully ;  remove 
the  syrup  from  the  tire,  and  add  one-half  pint  of  best 
brandy  to  a  pound  of  peaches.  Pour  this  over  the 
peaches.     Seal  in  glass  jars. 

PEACH  BrTTEB. 

One  peck  of  peaches,  two  quarts  of  boiled  cider ; 
reduce  by  boiling  one  gallon  of  sweet  cider  to  one-half 
its  quantity  ;  pare  and  cut  soft  peaches,  put  into  the 
preserving  kettle  with  the  cider;  boil  until  they  are 
reduced  to  a  pulp,  stirring  constantly ;  if  not  sweet 
enough,  add  a  little  sugar  ;  cover  tight  in  jars. 

APPI.E  JEttA . 

Take  juicy  apples  (Ramboes  are  best),  take  the  stem 
and  top  off  and  wash  them  nicely ;  then  cut  up  in  quar- 
ters and  put  cold  water  on  them,  just  enough  to  cover 
them ;  boil  them  soft  afterward ;  strain  them  through  a 
jelly  bag;  then  take  two  pints  at  a  time  with  two 
pounds  of  crushed  sugar  ;  boil  twenty  minutes,  then  do 


FRUITS.  131 

tlie  same  with  the  other  juice,  to  be  economical;  pare 
and  core  the  apples  ;  don't  strain  so  close  but  that  you 
can,  by  adding-  a  little  more  water,  use  the  apples  for 
sauce  or  pies. 

APPI.E  JEL.L.Y. 

Take  nice  green  apples  that  will  cook  nicely  ;  quarter 
the  apples  without  paring;  put  them  in  a  pan  or  kettle 
and  cover  over  with  water,  and  keep  them  covered ;  let 
them  boil  slowly  until  entirely  done,  then  strain  through 
a  tlannel  bag;  just  let  it  drip,  do  not  squeeze  them. 
To  a  pint  of  j nice  put  a  pint  of  sugar.  If  the  apples  are 
not  very  acid,  use  a  little  citric  acid. 


SIBERIAN  CRAB  APPLE  JEI.IiY. 

Crab  apple,  gooseberry,  quince,  plum  and  apple,  are 
all   made   in   the  same   way  ;  some  add  less  sugar  to 
sweeter  fruits.     After  having  freed   the  fruit  from  all 
blemishes,  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  only 
enough  clear  water  to  keep  them  from  burning ;  let  them 
boil  slowly  until  quite  soft ;  then,  putting  them  into  a 
flannel  cloth,  press  from   them  all  the  juice  possible; 
strain   the  juice   two  or  three  times  through   a  clean 
cloth,  then  return   to  a  clean  preserving  kettle,  adding 
a  cup  of  sugar  for  every  cup  of  juice,  and  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg  for  the  wiiole.      The  rule  is  to  boil  the 
syrup    (without     stirring)     very    rapidly    for    twenty 
minutes,  not  counting  the  minutes  before  it  begins  to 
boil.     The  surest  way  is  to  boil  it  until  it  runs  a  little 
thick  upon  the  spoon,  then  let  it  run  through  the  jelly 
bag  without  pressing  it ;  put  the  jelly  into  glasses,  and 
after  it  has  become  quite  firm,  cut  out  little  papers  to 
fit  the  tops,  which  should  be  dipped  in  the  whites  of 
eggs ;  press  the  edges  against  the  sides  of  the  glasses 
to  exclude  the  air. 


132  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

CURRAXT  JELIiY. 

Weigh  the  currants ;  do  not  wash  them,  but  carefully 
remove  leaves  and  whatever  may  adliere  to  them.  To 
each  pound  of  fruit  allow  half  the  weight  of  granulated 
or  pure  loaf  sugar ;  put  a  few  currants  into  a  porcelain- 
lined  kettle,  and  press  well,  so  as  to  secure  sufficient 
liquid  to  prevent  burning  them;  add  the  remainder  of 
the  fruit,  and  boil  freely  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally  to  prevent  burning  ;  strain  through  a  flan- 
nel bag,  into  an  earthen  vessel,  as  the  action  of  the 
acid  on  tin  materially  affects  both  color  and  flavor; 
when  strained,  return  the  liquid  to  the  kettle  without 
the  trouble  of  measuring,  and  let  it  boil  for  a  moment 
or  so,  and  then  add  the  sugar.  As  soon  as  the  sugar  is 
entirely  dissolved,  the  jelly  is  done.  Pour  into  glasses. 
Cut  papers  a  little  larger  than  the  top,  dip  in  whites  of 
eggs ;  press  the  edges  against  the  sides  of  the  glasses 
to  exclude  the  air. 


iT^aXs^^s^x 


TO  CAN   TO:?I.iTOES. 

They  must  be  fresh.  Pour  scakling  water  over  them 
to  aid  in  removing  the  skins.  After  the  tomatoes  are 
skinned,  put  them  into  a  porcelain  preserving  kettle  ; 
add  no  water  to  them ;  let  them  come  to  boiling  jjoint, 
or  be  well  scalded  through.  The  cans  should  be  heated 
by  filling  them  with  boiling  water,  and  allowing  them 
to  stand  while  the  tomatoes  are  boiling.  Pour  out  this 
water,  fill  the  cans  and  seal  while  hot.  Always  have 
cans  soldered  if  you  can  conveniently  do  so,  but  if  you 
should  have  to  use  the  wax,  be  very  careful  to  perfectly 
exclude  the  air.  There  will  be  juice  left  after  the  toma- 
toes are  canned.  This  can  be  seasoned  and  boiled 
down  for  catsup. 

CAKXED  CORX. 

To  seven  pounds  of  corn,  put  three  pints  of  water; 

let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  ounce  of  tartaric  acid ; 

stir  it  in  well ;  let  it  boil  hard,  and  can  while  boiling. 

When  you  go  to  cook  for  table  use,  pour  off  the  water 

that  may  be  with  it,  and  add  fresh  water  or  milk,  and 

boil  it  also;  to  each  quart  can  add  ^a  teaspoouful  of 

soda,  salt,  butter,  and  a  little  sugar. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Norris^ 

Fayette,  Mo. 

TO  CAX  CORX. 

Mrs.  Henderson  says  :  "  I  have  found  in  a  Supreme 
Court  decision,  Mr.  Winslow's  receipt  for  canning  corn, 
as  follows : 

"  Fill  the  cans  with  the  uncooked  corn  (freshly  gath- 
ered)  cut  from    the  cob,  and  seal  them  hermetically ; 

133 


134  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

surround  them  with  straw  to  prevent  them  striking 
against  each  other,  and  put  them  into  a  boiler  over  the 
tire,  witli  enougli  cold  water  to  cover  them ;  heat  the 
water  gradually,  and  when  you  have  boiled  an  hour 
and  a  half  puncture  the  tops  of  the  cans  to  allow  the 
escape  of  gases;  ilien  seal  them  immediately  while 
they  are  still  hot;  continue  to  boil  them  for  two  hours 
and  a  half.  In  packing,  tlie  cut  corn  in  the  can,  the 
liberated  milk  and  juices  surround  the  kernels,  forming 
a  liquid,  in  which  they  are  cooked.  This  process, 
patented  hj  Mr.  Winslow,  is  by  far  the  best  one  for 
preserving  the  natural  flavor  of  green  sweet  corn." — 
From,  Mrs.  Heitdersoii'H  Cook  Boole. 

TO  CA:sr  PEACHES. 

Pare,  halve  and  stone  them.  Put  them  in  a  preserv- 
ing kettle;  cover  with  water;  add  about  a  teacup  of 
sugar;  let  them  boil  until  peaches  are  clear;  then  take 
them  carefully  out  of  this  water  and  put  into  cans ; 
pour  over  them  a  rich  syrup,  made  of  granulated  sugar, 
and  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  well.  Have  them 
soldered  while  hot. 

Pears  and  apricots  are  canned  in  the  same  manner. 

CAXXED  CHERRIES. 

Stone  tlie  fruit;  weigh  it ;  and  for  every  pound  of  fruit, 
take  half  a  pound  of  sugar  ;  after  putting  the  fruit  into 
the  syrup,  let  it  scald  (not  boil  hard)  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  and  then  can  and  seal.  This  method  is  excel- 
lent for  use,  with  all  small  fruits. 


-^^rAMIlY^^BWEKAGESs^ 


TEA. 

Two  things  are  necessary  to  insure  good  tea.  First, 
that  the  water  should  be  at  tlie  boiling  point  when 
poured  on  the  leaves ;  water  simply  hot  not  answering 

he  pui'pose  at  all.  And  second,  that  it  should  be 
served  freshly  made.  Tea  should  never  be  boiled.  So 
particular  are  the  English  to  preserve  its  first  aroma, 
that  it  is  sometimes  made  on  the  table  two  or  three 
times  during  a  meal.  In  France,  little  silver  canisters 
of  tea  are  placed  on  tlie  table,  where  it  is  invariably 
made.  One  teaspoonful  of  the  leaves  is  a  fair  portion 
for  each  person.  Tea  is  better  made  in  an  earthen  tea- 
pot, which  tea  connoisseurs  are  particular  to  have. 
They  also  drink  the  beverage  without  milk,  and  with 
loaf-sugar  merely. 

Water  at  the  boiling  point  is  generally  considered 
better  for  tea  or  coffee,  and  in  fact,  any  kind  of  cooking 
which  requires  boiling  water. — From  Mrs.  Henderson^s 

Cooli  Book. 

COFFEE. 

One  mill  full  of  coffee.  When  ground,  put  in  coffee- 
pot, break  into  it  one  whole  ^%^\  mix  well  with  a  little 
cold  water ;  then  pour  on  boiling  water,  sufficient  to  fill 
an  ordinary  sized  pot,  three  parts  full ;  set  it  back 
where  it  will  simmer  gently  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then 
set  it  where  it  will  boil  briskly  about  five  minutes.  Do 
not  allow  to  boil  over,  stir  it  down  and  add  a  few  drops 
of  cold  water. 

135 


136  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

The  best  coffee  is  made  by  mixing  two- thirds  Java 
and  one-third  Mocha.  Use,  if  you  can,  the  Old  Domin- 
ion coffee-pot.  Serve  with  very  thick  cream. — 3Irs.  Dr. 
T.  J.  SmitJi,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CHOCOIiATE. 

Scrape  the  chocolate  and  let  it  soak  a  little  while  in 
about  a  tablespoon  of  milk  to  soften  it ;  stir  until 
smooth  ;  when  the  milk,  sweetened  to  taste,  is  boiling, 
add  it  to  the  dissolved  chocolate,  a  little  at  first,  until 
thin,  then  pour  altogether,  and  let  boil  just  a  minute; 
stir  well,  and  serve  immediately.  Have  cream  whipped, 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  is  a  great  improve- 
ment; a  dessert  spoonful  to  each  cup. 

BliACKBERRY   COBDIAE. 

Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water ; 
boil  it  until  it  is  rich  and  thick,  and  then  add  a  pint  of 
blackberry  juice  to  every  pound  of  sugar;  put  half  a 
grated  nutmeg  to  each  quart  of  syrup  ;  let  it  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  then  add  one-half  pint  of  brandy  for  every 
quart  of  syrup.  When  cold,  bottle  for  use. — Mrs.  John 
Mrmn,  Fayette,  Mo. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAt. 

To  one  quart  of  blackberry  juice,  add  one  pound 
white  sugar,  one  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice, 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Boil  altogether  fifteen  min- 
utes ;  add  one  wine  glass  brandy  or  whiskey.  Bottle 
while  hot;  cork  and  seal. — Mrs.  E.  Major,  Fayette,  Mo. 

BliACKBERRY  WIXE. 

Bruise  the  berries,  and  to  every  gallon  add  one  quart 
of  boiling  water ;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  stirring 
it  occasionally.  Strain  off  the  liquor  into  a  cask,  add- 
ing two  pounds  of  sugar  to  a  gallon  of  syrup;  cork 
tight.  Let  stand  till  October,  then  it  will  be  ready  for 
use. — Mrs.  N.  C.  Eubank,  Fayette,  Mo. 


FAMIL  Y  BE  VERA  GES .  137 

ORAP£  WIXE. 

To  twenty  pounds  of  grapes,  put  four  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water;  when  cool,  press  the  juice  from  the  grape 
well,  then  cover  over  and  allow  them  to  stand  about 
three  days;  strain  the  juice  from  the  grapes,  and  add 
ten  pounds  of  sugar;  let  stand  in  the  jar  for  a  week; 
then  skim  and  strain  into  a  cask  or  bottles,  and  seal. — 
Mrs.  J.  Dickerson,  Fayette,  Mo. 

CrRRANT  WIAE. 

To  two  quarts  of  currant  juice,  (after  the  currants  are 
pressed)  add  one  quart  of  water  and  three  and  a  half 
pounds  of  sugar.  Let  it  stand  in  an  open  jar  until  it 
stops  fermenting;  then  draw  it  off  carefully.  Bottle 
and  cork  it  securely. 


I— ^r^=^-^f^=i^^fe-^ 


MlDIGIT^Als 


CURE  FOR  FEI.0:N. 

This  remedy  has  never  been  known  to  fail  if  applied 
in  time.  Take  a  handful  of  Mayapple  root,  with  water 
enough  to  cover  ;  boil  until  all  the  strength  is  out,  then 
dip  out  the  roots  and  boil  down  until  it  is  thick  like 
candy  ;  apply  this  candy  on  the  affected  part,  and  let 
it  remain  twelve  hours,  (or  longer  if  necessary)  this  will 
draw  it  so  you  can  easily  pick  it  with  a  needle  to  let 
the  coiruption  out.  When  you  take  the  Mayapple  off, 
apply  a  poltice  made  of  white  beans,  to  draw  out  the 
poison. — Mrs.  E.  M.  Woods,  Fayette,  Mo. 

REMEDY  FOR  WOUNDS. 

A  correspondent  of  the  Country  Gejitleman,  gives 
the  following  remedy  for  painful  wounds.  Take  a  pan 
or  shovel  with  burning  coals,  and  sprinkle  on  them 
common  brown  sugar,  and  hold  the  wounded  part  in 
the  smoke ;  in  a  few  minutes  the  pain  will  be  allayed 
and  recovery  rapidly  proceed. 

REMEDY  FOR  BEE  STIXGS. 

The  juice  of  a  red  onion  is  a  perfect  antidote  for  the 
sting  of  bees,  wasps,  hornets,  etc.  The  sting  of  the 
honey  bee,  which  is  always  left  in  the  wound,  should 
first  be  removed. — Mrs.  Mary  Oay. 

BEE  STING. 

The  sting  of  a  bee  or  wasp  may  be  almost  instantly 
relieved  by  applying  lean  raw  meat.     It  is  said  to  cure 
the  bite  of  a  rattlesnake,  and  to  relieve  erysipelas. 
138 


MEDICINAL.  139 


JLTi  EXCEIil^E^T  SAIiTE. 

Take  a  piece  of  wax,  yellow  or  wliite,  size  of  walnut; 
same  of  resin,  and  same  of  fresh  butter  (before  it  has 
been  salted)  and  melt  in  a  tin  cup;  set  in  a  pot  of 
water ;  stir  until  cold. 

A  SURE  CURE  FOR  CJRAVEI.. 

Take  one  pound  of  anvil  dust,  pound  it  up  fine,  sift 
it  through  a  piece  of  gauze,  then  take  half  as  much 
horseradish,  scrax)e  it  line;  then  put  both  in  half  gal- 
lon of  strong  vinegar;  put  in  a  stone  jug.  Shake  well 
before  using;  dose  teaspoonful  every  three  or  four 
hours. —  George  Frazier.  Aug.  13,  I8J4O. 

COUGH  MEDICOE. 

One  tumbler  of  good  vinegar  ;  two  tumblers  of  white 
sugar,  twenty  grains  of  ipecac,  a  lump  of  resin,  as 
large  as  a  lilbert.  Let  all  come  to  a  boil,  when  cool, 
add  a  dessert  spoonful  of  laudanum.  Dose,  a  teaspoon- 
ful three  times  a  day,  or  oftener  if  the  cough  is  trouble- 
some.— Mrs.  Fratie  KnicTierhoc'ker,  Dec.  i^,  1863. 

COUOII  SYRUP. 

Take  elderberries  when  ripe,  pick  off  the  stems  and 
press  the  juice  from  them  ;  put  on  the  fire  and  boil  as 
you  would  for  jelly  ;  when  done,  strain  the  juice  from 
the  berries,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice,  add  a  pint  of 
sugar.  Boil  down  to  a  rich  syrup ;  when  cool,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  good  whiskey  or  brandy.  Dose,  a 
teaspoonful  every  two  or  three  hours.— J/r.9.  Avne 
Shafroth. 

REMEDY  FOR  BURXS. 

Take  best  castile  soap ;  scrape  fine  with  a  knife ;  add 
water  in  small  quantities  to  make  a  smooth  paste; 
spread  upon  linen;  and  applied  to  a  burn  quickly 
relieves  the  pain.  Turpentine  applied  is  also  good  for 
burns. 


140  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

FOR  SORi:  THROAT. 

Cut  slices  of  salt  pork  or  fat  bacon ;  simmer  a  few 
moments  in  liot  vinegar,  and  apply  to  throat  as  hot  as 
possible.  When  this  is  taken  off,  as  the  throat  is 
relieved,  put  around  a  bandage  of  sofc  flannel.  A 
gargle  of  equal  parts  of  borax  and  alum,  dissolved  in 
water  is  also  excelleuu, 

TO  REMOVE  DISCOIiORATIOlf  FROM  BRUISES. 

Apply  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  very  hot  water,  and 
renew  frequently  until  the  pain  ceases. 

MUSTARD  PI.ASTER. 

Mix  together  equal  parts  of  mustard  flour  with  wheat 
flour,  and  enough  water  or  vinegar  to  make  a  moist  paste 
of  them  ;  spread  it  on  a  piece  of  old  muslin  twice  the  size 
wanted,  leaving  about  an  inch  clear  on  the  edge,  and. 
double  the  othei.  half  over  it.  It  must  never  raise  a 
blister,  only  leave  on  long  enough  to  redden  the  skin. 
After  it  is  removed,  put  on  a  rag,  spread  with  cold 
cream  or  lard. 

CURE  FOR  CHAPPED  HAXDS. 

One  ounce  of  glycerine,  one  of  gum  camphor,  one- 
half  pound  of  mutton  tallow.     Make  into  a  salve. 


To  keep  the  hands  nice  and  smooth,  use  the  follow- 
ing preparation  each  time  they  are  wasiied.  Three 
parts  of  rosewater  to  two  parts  of  glycerine,  well  mixed, 
and  kept  in  a  bottle  ready  for  use.  For  those  who  can- 
not use  glycerine,  equal  parts  of  lard  and  white  of  egg 
thoroughly  beaten  together,  and  scented  according  to 
choice,  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  chapped  or  rough 
hands. 


^ri,ujj,)*inj!:^TJiJkc>iGKse^ 


BEEF  TEA. 

Cut  a  pound  of  best  lean  steak  in  small  pieces  ;  place 
in  glass  IVuiu  Jar  (a  perfect  one),  cover  tighily  and  set  in 
a  pot  of  cold  water;  heat  gradually  fo  boil,  and  con- 
tinue this  steadily  three  or  four  hours  until  the  meat  is 
like  white  rags,  and  the  juice  thoroughly  extracted; 
strain  from  the  jar  as  you  want  to  use  it.  It  is  best  to 
set  kettle  off  stove  and  let  cool,  before  removing  the 
jar,  and  in  this  way  prevent  breakage.  When  ready 
to  use,  pour  into  a  small  saucer,  heat,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pej^per. 

MUTTOX  AXD  VEAL.  BROTH. 

Boil  a  piece  of  mutton  till  it  comes  to  pieces ;  then 
strain  the  broth  and  let  it  get  cold,  so  that  the  fat  will 
rise,  which  must  be  taken  off,  then  warm  it ;  and  jiut  in 
a  little  salt.  Veal  broth  may  be  made  in  the  same 
way,  and  is  more  delicate  for  sick  persons. 

CHICKEX  BKOTII. 

Take  the  iirst  and  and  second  joints  of  a  chicken; 
boil  in  one  quart  of  water  till  very  tender,  and  season 
with  a  very  little  salt  and  pepper. 

SWEET  CIDER  SOUP. 

Boil  one  pint  of  cider;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
dissolved  in  a  little  water;  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar; 
pour  this  over  the  well  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg;  put  the 
beaten  white  on  the  top.  This  is  pleasant  and  very 
strengthening. 

141 


142  THt:  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


RTE  MUSH. 

This  is  a  nourishing  and  light  diet  for  the  sick,  and 
is  by  some  preferred  to  mush  made  of  Indian  meal. 
Four  large  spoonfuls  of  rye  flour,  mixed  smooth  in  a 
1  ittle  water,  and  stirred  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  let 
boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Nervous  per- 
sons who  sleep  badly,  rest  much  better  after  a  supper 
of  corn  or  rye  mush,  than  if  they  take  tea  or  coffee. 

CORX  GRUEIi.' 

Mix  two  spoonfuls  of  sifted  cornnieal  in  some  water  ; 
have  a  clean  skillet  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water  in  it ; 
stir  it  in.  and  when  done,  season  it  with  salt  to  yoar 
taste,  or  sugar  if  you  prefer  it. 

O ilTHEAI.  GRlJEIi. 

Mix  two  spoonfuls  of  oatmeal,  with  as  much  water  as 
will  mix  easily,  and  stir  it  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  in 
a  saucepan,  until  perfectly  smooth ;  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes  ;  season  it  with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  and  pour  it 
out  on  a  slice  of  bread,  toasted,  and  cut  up.  If  the 
patient  should  like  them,  you  may  put  in  a  few  raisins, 
stoned  and  cut  up.  This  will  keep  good  a  day,  and  if 
nicely  warmed  over,  is  as  good  as  when  fresh. 

PAX  AD  A. 

Put  some  crackers,  crusts  of  dry  bread,  or  dried  rusk, 
in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  and  a  few  raisins ;  after 
it  has  boiled  half  an  hour,  put  in  sugar,  nutmeg,  and 
half  a  glass  of  wine,  if  the  patient  has  no  fever.  If  you 
have  dried  rusk,  it  is  a  quicker  way  to  put  the  rusk  in 
a  bowl  with  some  sugar,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it. 
If  the  patient  can  use  nothing  but  liquids,  this  makes  a 
good  drink  when  strained. 

BOIEED  CrSTARD. 

Beat  an  egg  with  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  sugar  ;  stir 
it  into  a  teacupful  of  boiled  milk,  and  stir   till   it   is 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK.  143 

thick ;  pour  it  in  a  bowl  on  a  slice  of  toast,  cut  up,  and 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it. 

EGG-XOG. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg-  with  a  tablespooiiful  of 
sugar,  add  about  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  stirring 
well  as  it  is  poured  in  ;  tablespoonful  of  cream,  a  little 
nutmeg,  and  the  well  beaten  white  of  the  egg  last. 

THICKEXED  MII.K. 

Boil  a  pint ;  dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  in 
a  little  cold  milk  ;  add  to  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  thick  enough  ;  take  from  the  fire ;  sweeten 
and  flavor  with  nutmeg.  In  boiling  milk,  always  set 
your  saucepan  in  which  you  boil  the  milk,  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water. 

Many  of  the  articles  under  "  desserts  "  are  nice  for 
the  sick.  In  preparing  food  for  the  sick,  much  care 
should  be  taken,  and  it  should  be  presented  in  the  most 
inviting  way,  always  the  nicest  china  and  silver  used. 


144 


AD  VERTISEMENT. 


ABSOLUTE  PERFECTiON  IN  BAKING! 

AND    ALL- 
MEATS  ROASTED  IN  THEIR  OWN 
JUICES,  BY  USING  THE 

WIRE  GAUZE  OVEN  DOOR 


FOUND  EXCLUSIVELY  ON  THE 


MARVELOUS  RESULTS 


LOSS  IN  SHRINKAGE  OF  MEATS. 

Vpry  few  ppople  know  that  the  Shrinkage  of  Meats 
roasted  iu  a  close  ovoa  is  from  thirty-tive  to  forty  per 
cent.  All  meat  contains  seventy-tive  percent,  of  w.iter 
and  only  twenty-five  per  cent,  of  solid  matter,  and  the 
Joss  that  is  made  iu  the  roasting  is  made  in  theevapo. 
ration  of  the  juice,  which  is  the  vital  pabtof  meat 

Effect  of  the  SOLID  OVEN  Door- 

A  TEN  pound  Sirloin,  medium  or  well-done,  will  be 
BEDUCED  to  SIX  pounds  and  four  ounces  of  Roasted 
meat,  showing  a  loss  of  three  pounds  and  twelve  ounces 
of  juice.  While  the  loss  is  37J-2  percent,  of  the  total 
wei-ht,  it  shows  the  enormous  Loss  of  Eiftx  pes 

CE.MT,   OF  THE  JUICEj 

Effect  of  "WIRE  GAUZE  OVEN  Door. 

A  TEN  pound  Sirloin,  medium  or  well-done/will  be 
reduced  to  nine  pounds  and  eight  ouucesof  Konsted 
maat,  enowinga  lossof  eittlit  ounces  of  juice,  Wliila 
this  loss  is  five  per  cent,  of  the  total  weight,  it  shows 
the  very  small  Loss  of  but  seven  'jr.B,  cent,  of  JL'ICE. 

Send  for  Illustrated  Circulars  and  Price  Lists. 


MEASURE.  146 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


4  cups  wheat  flour  make I  pound. 

3M  cups  of  cornmeal  make I  pound. 

2  large  coffee-cups  granulated  sugar  make i  pound. 

2  large  coffee-cups  dry  brown  sugar  make i  pound. 

iH  cups  firm  butter  pressed  down,  make I  pound. 

2  cups  raisins  make I  pound. 

10  eggs  make i  pound. 

I  white  of  egg  makes i  ounce. 

1  yolk  of  egg  makes i  ounce. 

16  ounces  make I  pound. 

4  teaspoons  make i  tablespoon. 

4  tablespoons  make ^  gill- 

8  tablespoons  make i  gill. 

2  gills  make, ^  pint. 

2  pints  make i  quart. 

4  quarts  maki I  gallon. 

8  quarts  make I  peck. 

A  cup  of  flour  means,  a  cup  of  unsifted  flour. 


^MISGEXXAI^EOUS^^ 


.>- 


RECIPE  FOR  HARD  SOAP. 

Ten  pounds  of  soda  ash.  five  pounds  of  unslacked 
lime,  ten  gallons  of  soft  water;  boil  two  hours;  adding 
water  as  it  boils  down,  so  as  to  have  as  much  water 
when  done  boiling  as  you  had  when  you  commenced. 
Let  it  stand  over  night.  Drain  off  in  a  clean  kettle  ; 
then  add  thirty  pounds  of  clear  grease,  if  you  have  it, 
if  not,  and  it  is  trimmings,  add  a  few  pounds  more. 
Boil  one  hour  ;  let  stand  till  cold.  Cut  out  in  bars,  and 
let  ducj  before  putting  away. 

TO  MIX  WHITEWASH. 

Pour  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  on  a  peck  of  unslacked 
lime  ;  put  in  two  pounds  of  whiting,  and  one-half  pint 
salt ;  when  all  are  mixed  together,  put  in  one-half  ounce 
of  Prussian  blue,  finely  powdered  ;  add  water  to  make 
it  a  proper  thickness  to  put  on  a  wall. 

WHITEWASH  FOR  BU HIDINGS  OR  FEXCES. 

Put  in  a  barrel  one  bushel  of  best  unslacked  lime  ; 
pour  on  it  two  buckets  of  boiling  water ;  and  when  it  is 
mixed,  put  in  six  pounds  of  fine  whiting  ;  fill  up  the 
barrel  with  water  :  stir  it  well  and  keep  it  covered  from 
the  rain  ;  let  it  stand  several  days  before  you  use  it ; 
then  stir  it  up  ;  thin  it  with  milk  as  you  use  it,  and  put 
one-half  a  pint  of  salt  to  each  bucketful.  This  makes  a 
durable  wash  for  a  rcingh  cast  or  frame  house,  or  for 
fences  ;  the  salt  prevents  it  from  peeling  off. 
146 


MISCELLANEOUS.  147 


ECONOMICAIi  PAINT. 

Skim  milk,  two  quarts;  fresh  slacked  lime,  eight 
ounces;  linseed  oil,  six  ounces;  white  burgundy  pitch, 
two  ounces  ;  Spanish  white,  three  pounds.  The  lime  to  be 
slacked  in  water,  exposed  to  the  air,  mixed  in  one-fourth 
of  the  milk ;  the  oil  in  which  the  pitch  is  previously 
dissolved,  to  be  added  a  little  at  a  time  ;  then  the  rest 
of  the  milk,  and  afterwards  the  Spanish  white.  This 
quantity  is  sufficient  for  twenty  square  yards,  two  coats, 
and  the  expense  not  more  than  twenty-live  cents. 

TO  STOP  CRACKS  IX  IRON  VESSEIiS. 

Mix  wood  ashes  and  salt  into  a  paste  with  a  little 
water ;  apply  whether  the  vessels  are  cold  or  hot. 

ce»ie:\t. 
Three  parts  ashes,  three  parts  clay,  and  one  sand,  is 
said  to  make  a  cement  as  hard  as  marble,  and  imper- 
vious to  water. 

CEMENT  FOR  CHINA. 
Take  plaster  of  Paris  and  mix  it   with   liquid  gum 
arable  into  a  paste.     This  is  said  to  be  excellent. 

TO  REMOVE  MII.DEW. 

Soak  the  parts  of  the  cloth  that  are  mildewed  in  two 
parts  chloride  of  lime  to  four  parts  of  water,  for  about 
four  hours,  or  until  the  mildew  has  disappeared ;  then 
thoroughly  rinse  it  in  clear  water. 

CI.EANSING  FMJIO. 

Four  ounces  of  ammcmia.  four  ounces  of  white  castile 
soap,  two  ounces  of  alcohol,  two  ounces  of  glycerine 
two  ounces  of  ether.  Cut  the  soap  up  fine  ;  dissolve  in 
one  quart  of  soft  water  over  the  ^re ;  then  add  four 
quarts  of  cold  water.  When  nearly  cold  add  tne  other 
ingredients.     This  will  make  almost  eight  quarts. 


148  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

HAIR  WASH. 

Take  su^ar  of  lead,  lac  sulphur,  of  each  one  and  a  half 
drachms  or  teaspoonfuls ;  bay  rum,  one-fourth  pint; 
glycerine,  two  ounces. 

HAIR   WASH  "ErREKA." 

One  ounce  of  borax,  one  ounce  lac  sulphur,  one 
ounce  of  sugar  lead,  two  ounces  of  bay  rum,  three  pints 
of  rain  water. 

WASHING  COMPOIJXD. 

One-half  pound  of  super- carbonate  soda,  one-half 
pound  unslacked  lime,  one  gallon  boiling  water;  boil 
twenty  minutes.  Pour  off  the  top  after  letting  it  stand 
to  settle  ;  then  bottle.  Sort  your  clothes,  soap  them, 
and  then  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  wring  out ; 
soap,  if  more  is  needed,  and  put  a  teaspoonful  of  the 
fluid  to  a  boiler  of  clothes;  boil  one-half  hour.  They 
will  need  but  little  rubbing.  This  does  not  injure  the 
clothes. 

POWDER  FOR  SCENT  BAGS. 

One  ounce  each  of  coriander  seed,  orris  root,  rose 
leaves,  lavender  flowers,  and  sweet  calamus;  one 
drachm  of  mace  and  allspice.  Mix  and  put  in  your 
bags,  or  between  the  covers  of  your  handkerchief-box 
lid. 

TO  PREVEBfT  RUSTIXG. 

To  prevent  metals  from  rusting,  melt  together  three 
parts  lard  and  one  of  resin,  and  apply  a  very  thin  coat- 
ing. It  will  preserve  Russia-iron  stoves  and  grates 
from  rusting  during  summer,  even  in  damp  situations. 
The  eff'ect  is  equally  good  in  brass,  copper,  steel,  etc. 

TO  POMSH  TIXWARE. 

First  rub  the  tin  with  a  damp  cloth;  then  take  dry 
flour  and  rub  it  on  with  your  hand ;  take  an  old  news- 
paper and  rub  the  flour  off",  and  the  tin  will  shine  as 


MISCELLANEOUS.  149 

well  as  if  half  an  hour  had  been  spent  in  rubbing  with 
brick  dust  or  powders. 

TO  RESTORE   FURNITURE. 

Make  a  mixture  of  three  parts  of  linseed  oil,  and  one 
part  spirits  of  turpentine  ;  put  it  on  with  a  woolen  cloth, 
and  when  dry,  rub  with  a  woolen  cloth  or  chamois. 
Good  for  cleaning  picture  frames  and  restoring  furniture 
marred  or  scratched.  It  covers  the  disfigured  surface, 
and  restores  wood  to  its  original  color,  leaving  a  lustre 
upon  the  surface. 

SCOIIRISTG  L.IQIJID  FOR  BRASS. 

Oil  of  vitriol,  one  ounce;  sweet  oil,  one-half  gill; 
pulverized  rotten  stone,  one  gill;  rain  water,  one  and 
a  half  pints.  Mix  well  and  shake  as  used.  Apply  with 
a  rag,  and  then  polish  with  buckskin  or  old  woolen. 

SPOTS  OIV  VARXISHED  FURXITURE 

Are  readily  removed  b}^  rubbing  them  with  essence  of 
peppermint,  or  spirits  of  camphor,  and  afterwards  with 
furniture  polish  or  oil. 

TO  CI.EAX  SILTER. 

Wash  silver  in  very  hot,  clear  water,  wipe  dry  with  a 
soft  towel,  and  you  will  have  no  need  for  any  prepara- 
tion. 

TO   REMOVE  A   OI^ASS  STOPPER 

From  a  bottle,  hold  a  lighted  match  to  the  neck  of  the 
bottle,  and  the  heat  will  cause  the  neck  so  to  expand 
that  the  stopper  will  loosen. 

FOR  TAKING  OCT  GREASE  SPOTS. 

Gasoline  is  splendid  for  cleaning  grease  out  of  any- 
thing, from  a  piece  of  point  lace  to  a  carpet.  Wash 
lace  or  silk  handkerchiefs  in  it;  rub  larger  things  with 
a  sponge ;  but  it  is  explosive,  and  so  must  be  kept  far 
from  the  fire. 


150  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

TO   EXTRACT  INK. 

To  extract  ink  from  cotton,  silk  and  woolen  goods, 
saturate  the  spot  witli  spirits  of  turpentine,  and  let  it 
remain  several  hours ;  then  rub  it  between  the  hands. 
It  will  crumble  away  without  injuring  either  the  color 
or  texture  of  the  article. 

TO  TAKE  INK  OUT  OF  lilXEN 

Dip  the  spotted  part  in  pure  tallow,  melted ;  then  wash 
out  the  tallow  and  the  ink  will  disappear. 

TO   REMOVE  TAR. 

Rnb  well  with  clean  lard,  afterwards  wash  with  soap 

and   warm    water.      Apply    this    to    either    hands   or 

clothing. 

STOVE   POI.ISH. 

Stove  lustre,  when  mixed  with  turpentine  and  ap- 
plied in  the  usual  manner,  is  blacker,  more  glossy,  and 
more  durable  than  when  mixed  with  any  other  liquid. 
The  turpentine  prevents  rust,  and  when  put  on  an  old, 
rusty  stove  will  make  it  look  as  well  as  new. 

TO  WASH  OIL-CIiOTH. 

Oil-cloth  ma}^  be  made  to  have  a  fresh,  new  appear- 
ance, by  washing  it  every  month  with  a  solution  of 
sweet  milk,  with  the  white  of  one  beaten  egg.  Soap,  in 
time,  injures  oil-cloth.  A  very  little  "boiled  oil," 
freshens  up  an  oil-cloth.  Very  little  must  be  used,  and 
rubbed  in  with  a  rag.  Equal  parts  of  copal  varnish,  I 
put;  it  gives  a  gloss. 

SWEETENING  STONE  JARS. 

"Having  some  stone  jars  in  which  lard  had  been 
placed  until  they  became  unfit  for  use,  I  made  perfectly 
sweet  by  packing  them  full  of  fresh  earth,  and  letting  it 
remain  two  or  three  weeks.  I  suspect  this  course  would 
be  equally  effective  in  any  case  of  foul  earthen  or  stone- 
ware." 


MISCELLANEOUS.  .      151 


RANCID  BUTTER 

May  be  remedied  by  patting  in  a  saucepan  and  scald- 
ing; ilien  put  in  a  piece  of  toasted  bread  which  will 
absorb  all  the  bad  part  of  the  batter  ;  pour  oif  carefally 
into  a  clean  dish,  from  the  dark  sediment  which  will 
be  found  in  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan. 

A  IJSEFIJI.  DRUO. 

Ammonia,  or  as  it  is  generally  called  spirits  of  harts- 
horn,  is  a  powerful  alkali,   and  dissolves  grease  and 
dirt  'with  great  ease.     For  washing  paint,  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  in  a  quart  of  moderately  hot  water ;  dip  in  a 
flannel   cloth   and   then   wipe    off  the   woodwork;    no 
scrubbing  will  be  necessary.     For  taking  grease  spots 
from  an}^  fabric,  use  the  ammonia  nearly  pure;  then 
lay  white  blotting  paper  over  the  spot;  then   iron  it 
lightly.     In  washing  lace,  put  about  twelve  drops  in  a 
phit  of  warm  suds.     To  clean  silver,  mix  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  ammonia  in  a  quart  of  hot  suds.     Put  in  your 
silverware  and  wash;  using  an  old  nail  brush  or  tooth 
brush  for  the  pui-pose.     For  cleaning  hair  brushes,  etc., 
simply  shake  the  brushes  up  and  down  in  a  mixture  of 
a  tablespoonful  of  ammonia  to  one  pint  of  hot  water ; 
when  they  are  cleansed,  rinse  them  in  cold  water  and 
stand  them  in  the  wind  or  in  a  hot  place  to  dry  ;  and 
for  taking  out  the  red  stains  produced  by  the  strong 
acids  in  blue  and  black  cloths,  there  is  nothing  better 
than  ammonia. 

TO  CI.EAN  HAIR  BRUSHES. 

Do  not  use  soap,  but  put  a  tablespoon  of  hartshorn 
into  the  water,  having  it  only  tepid,  and  dip  up  and 
down  until  clean;  then  dry  with  the  brushes  down,  and 
they  will  be  like  new  ones.  If  you  do  not  have  ammo- 
nia, use  soda  ;  a  teaspoon ful  dissolved  in  the  water  will 
do  very  well. 


152  THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 

Nails  dipped  in  soap,  will  drive  easily  in  hard  wood. 

Mica  windows  in  stoves,  when  smoked,  are  readily 
cleaned  by  taking  out  and  thoroughly  washing  with 
vinegar,  a  little  diluted.  If  the  black  does  not  come  off 
at  once,  let  it  soak  a  little. 


White  clothes  may  be  whitened  in  washing,  by  boil- 
ing a  teaspoonful  of  turpentine  with  them. 

A  little  borax  put  in  the  water  in  which  scarlet 
napkins  and  red  bordered  towels  are  to  be  washed,  will 
prevent  them  from  fading. 

A  small  quantity  of  diluted  vitriol  will  take  stains 
out  of  marble.  Wet  the  spots  with  the  acid,  and  in  a 
few  minutes  rub  briskly  with  a  soft  linen  cloth  till  they 
disappear. 


m!^  %    1^        00 *§*'""^"'^* 


LIST  OF  CONTRIBUTORS, 


Mrs.  W.  C.  Arline,  Fayette.  Mrs. 

"     E.  W.  Bedford,  Fayette.  " 

Miss  Ada  B.  Beck,  Fayette.  " 

Mrs.  T.  R.  Betts,  Fayette. 

Judge  T.  R.  Betts,  Fayette.  Miss 

Mrs.  Lucy  Boone,  Jefferson  City.  Mrs. 

"     George  Boughner,  Fayette.  " 

"     G.  Bower,  Fayette.  " 

"     W.  T.  Bowling,  Fayette.  " 

"     M.  J.  Breaker,  Fayette.  Miss 

"     M.  Bridges,  Fayette.  Mrs. 

"     Mittie  C.  Burton,  Fayette.  " 

"     Russel  Caples,  Glasgow.  " 

"     Evelina  Carson,  Fayette.  Miss 

Miss  Helen  Georgia  Carson,  Fayette.      Mrs. 

Mrs.  Mamie  White  Chinn,  Franklin.  " 
"     R.  C.  Clark,  Fayette. 

"     Lankford  Cook,  Fayette.  Miss 

"     Samuel  Copp,  St.  Louis.  Mrs. 

"     J.  H.  Crump,  Fayette.  " 

"     Dr.  C.  Darby,  St.  Joseph.  " 

Miss  Gabie  Darby,  Howard  Co.  Miss 

*'     Pensie  Darby,  Howard  Co.  " 

Miss  Emma  Davis,  Fayette.  Mrs. 

Mrs.  J.  Dickerson,  Fayette.  " 
"     Bettie  Tutt  Dunaway,  Oswego,  Ks.Miss 

"     Martha  Elliott,  Howard  Co.  " 

"    John  Ervin,  Fayette.  '' 

«     J.  R.  Estill,  Estill.  Mrs. 

"     N.  C.  Eubank,  Fayette.  " 

'*     Fannie  Everett,  Fayette.  " 
"     H.  Everett,  Council  Bluffs,  Iowa. 

Miss  Mattie  Frazier,  Fayette.  " 

Mrs.  John  Farrington,  Howard  Co.  " 

"     CcJesar  Ferguson,  Fayette.  " 
"     J.  R.  Findley,  St.  Louis. 

"     Juliette  Findley,  Lexington.  " 


L.  M.  Findley,  St.  Louis 
J.  H.  Finks,  Salisbury. 
Lizzie  Fisher,  Fayette 
Rebecca  Ford,  Kansas  City. 
Bessie  Gay,  Fayette. 
Nettie  Gannett,  Fayette. 
Mary  Gay,  Fayette. 
H.  K.  Givens,  Fayette. 
Odon  Guitar,  Columbia. 
Josephine  Harrison,  Denver,  Col. 
M.  Hendrix,  Fayette. 
John  Henry,  Jefferson  City. 
A.  J.  Herndon,  Fayette. 
Lizzette  Herndon,  Fayette. 
H.  K.  Hinde,  Howard  Col.,  Fayette. 
L  P.  Hockaday,  Columbia. 
George  Holley,  Armstrong. 
Marie  Howard,   Batavia,  N.  Y. 
Romeo  Hughes,  Fayette. 
L.  N.  Jackson,  Monroe  City. 
M.  E.  Jackson,  Fayette. 
Mary  Jackson,  Fayette. 
Cora  Jones,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
N.  O.  Jones,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
Jacob  Keyser,  Fayette. 
Jennie  Keyser,  Fayette. 
Nannie  Keyser,  Fayette. 
Nellie  Keyser,  Fayette. 
J.  W.  Kilpatrick,  Fayette. 
J.  Kinney,  Franklin. 
J.  M.  Kinney,  Franklin. 
Klatt,  Fayette. 

Fratie  Knickerbocker,  Fayette. 
Nannie  Lay,  Jefferson  City. 
Jeannette  Leonard,  Fayette. 
Elizabeth  Major,  Fayette. 
S.  C.  Major.  Fayette. 

163 


154 


THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


Mrs,  John  McCraty,  Huntsville.  Mrs. 

"  Joseph  Memmel,  Fayette.  " 

"  D.  O.  Morris,  Fayette.  " 

"  Carrie  Morrison,  Fayette  " 

"  J.  L.  Morrison,  Fayette.  " 

"  John  Morrison,  Fayette.  " 

"  Mumpower,  Fayette.  " 

"  John  Noland,  Independence.  Miss 

"  H.  A.  Norris,  Fayette.  " 

"  Eliza  Payne,  Nebraska  City,  Neb.  Mrs. 

Miss  Jessie  Payne,  Fayette.  " 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Payne,  Fayette.  " 

"  J.  H.  Pearson,   Fayette.  " 

"  JuHa  A.  Pearson,  Fayette.  " 

"  M.  Pile,  Fayette.  " 

"  W.  F.  Potts,  Fayette. 

"  L  S.  Prosser,  Fayette.  " 

"  Miller  Reed,  Fayette.  " 

"  John  Ricketts,   Fayette.  Miss 

"  W.  M.  Robertson,  Fayette.  Mrs. 

"  J.  A.  J.  Rooker,  Fayette. 

"  I.  P.  Ryland,  Tascosa,  Texas.  " 

"  John  E.  Ryland,  Lexington.  " 

"  Maria  Schotte,  Fayette.  " 

"  Louisa  Sebree,  Fayette.  " 

"■  Annie  Shaffroth,   Fayette.  " 

"  John  Shafroth,  Denver,  Col.  " 

"  Sides,  St.  Louis.  " 

"  S.  P.  Simpson,  St.  Louis.  " 


Charlie  Smith,   Fayette. 
Dr.  J   D.  Smith,  St.  Joseph. 
Dr.  Tom  Smith,  Fayette. 
Dr.  T.  J.  Smith,  Fayette. 
Louisa  A.  Smith,  Macon  Co. 
Solon  Smith,  Fayette. 
Wilson  Smith,  Fayette. 
Lou  Smith,  Fayette. 
Birdie  Smith,  Fayette. 
Dr.  Snelson,  St.  Joseph. 
Cyrus  Thompson,  Belleville,  IlL 
W.  F.  Tieman,  Fayette, 
John  Tippett,  Keytesville. 
J.  D.  Tolson,  Fayette. 

"       Treat,  St.  Louis. 
Wm.  Turner,  Glasgow. 
Margaret  Unrah,  Fayette. 
Margaret  Unruh,  Fayette. 
Sallie  Warden,  Fayette. 
Dr.  J.  J.  Watts,  Fayette. 
Hampton  L.  Watts,  Fayette. 
Wilcoxon,  Fayette. 
J.  F.  Williams,  Macon  City. 
R.  P.  Williams,  Fayette. 
E.  M.  Woods,  Fayette. 
Rowena  W.  Woods,  Fayette. 
Theodore  Woods,  Fayette. 
Leland  Wright,  Boonville. 
Dr.  U.  S.  Wright,  Fayette. 


STEPHENS  COLLEGE, 

FOR  YOUNG  LADIES, 
COMIMMA^     -      ^      MISSDTJBI. 

Rev,  T,  W.  Barrett.  A.  M.,  Pres't, 

W.  POPE  YEAMAN,  D.  D.,  President  of  Board  of  Curators. 

UNDER    CONTROL   OF 

The  Mo.  Baptist  ^mm\  A^^ociatioii. 

A  Broad  and  thorough  literary  course,  embracing  Classics  and  Modern  Lan- 
euaees.  Superior  advantages  in  Music,  Art,  Elocution  and  Hook-keei)mg.  An 
Ixptrienced  faculty  trained  in  the  best  schools  of  Kurope  and  America.  A  course 
of  lectures  by  distinguished  educators  ;  extensive  and  beautiful  grounds  ,  large 
and  well  furnished  rooms,  lighted  with  gas;  moral  and  religious  influences  un- 
surpassed.    For  Catalogue  address, 

REV,  T,  W.  BARRETT, 


-OrO    TO- 


C,  ROSENBAUM  &  SONS 


ro  BUY  ALL  YOUR 


DRY  GOODS,  NOTIONS,  HOSIERY, 

BOOTS,  SHOES,  HATS,  CAPS,  AND  CLOTHING. 


CREWS  &  CARSON 

Keep  on  hand  a  nice  line  of 

FRESH  GROCERIES, 

ALL  KINDS  OF  PRODUCE  BOUGHT  AND  SOLD. 

In  Bell  Block,  FAYETTE,  MO. 


MOST  PERFECT  MADE. 

Prepared  with  strict  regard  to  Purity,  Strength, 
and  Healthfulness.  Dr.  Price's  Baking  Powder 
contains  no  Ammonia,  Lime,  Alum  or  Phosphates. 
Dr.  Price's  Extracts,  Vanilla,  Lemon,  Orange,  etc., 
flavor  deliciously.  PRICE  Baking  Powder  Co. 

0HI0-A.C31-O-  ST.   XjOXJIS- 


INDEX, 


7 
145 
153 


Preface 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures 

List  of  Contributors 

Soups. 

Mock  Oyster 12 

Beef  Bouille  12 

Green  Pea '2 

Browned  Flour 12 

Caramel '2 

For  Coloring  Soups '3 


Directions 9 

Black 9 

White 9 

Tomato 'O 

German  Fritter 10 

Oyster n 


Beef.. 


Fisli  and  Oysters. 


Hints 14 

To  Boil  Fish H 

Baked  Fish 15 

Fried  Fish 15 

Boiled  Pike  with  Egg  Sauce 15 

Baked  Fish  with  Cream  Sauce 15 

Broiled  Fish 16 

Shell  Fish— Clams.. 16 

Fried  Clams 16 

Fried  Frogs 16 

Trask's  Select  Shore  Mackerel 16 

Codfish  and  Cream 17 


Codfish   Balls 17 

17 

17 

17 


Fried  Oysters 

Broiled  Oysters 

Oyster  Croquettes 

Fricasseed  Oysters 18 

Fried  Oysters 18 

Chicken  and  Oyster  Pie 18 

Scalloped  Oysters 18 

Steamed  Oysters  in  the  Shell 19 

Oyster  Patties '9 

Oyster  a  la  Poulelte '9 

Oyster  Flavor '9 


Meals. 


Directions 20 

Roast  Beef 20 

Roast  Pork 20 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb 21 

Roast  Little  Pig 21 

Champagne  Ham. 21 

Baked  Ham 22 

Boiled  Ham 22 

Dressing  for  Baked  Ham 22 


Boiled  Beef  Tongue 23 

Beefsteak  Smothered  in  Onions....  23 

Fried  Beefsteak 23 

Broiled  Beefsteak 23 

Mutton  Chops 24 

Veal  Cutlets 24 

Pork  Tenderloin 24 

Mock  Duck 24 

Baked  Ham 25 

157 


168 


THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


Meats.— Coiitiniied. 


Sausage... 25 

Beef  Hash 25 

Baked  Hash 25 

Beef  Croquettes 25 

Sweet-Breads 26 

Fried  Sweet-Breads 26 

Veal  Loaf. 26 

Opossum 26  I 

Sauces  for  Meats. 


Rabbit  Stew 26 

Souse. 27 

Pigs'  Feet 27 

Beefsteak  Balls 27 

To  Pickle  One  Hundred  Pounds  of 

Beef  or  Tongue 27 

To  Cure  Bacon 27 


Oyster  Sauce  for  Turkey 28 

Mint  Sauce  for  Lamb 28 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Roast  Beef. 28 

White,  or  Suet  Pudding 28 

Tomato  Sauce 29 

Mustard 29 


Oyster  Stuffing  for  Baked  Fish 29 

Mustard    Sauce    for    Boiled   Fresh 

Salmon 29 

Cranberry  Sauce 29 

Cranberry  Sauce 30 


Directions 31 

Roast  Turkey 31 

Roast  Turkey 32 

Baked  Chicken 32 

Fried  Chicken  32 

Smothered  Chicken 33 

Roast  Ducks 33 


Poultry. 

Prairie 


Chickens  —  Steamed      or 

Baked 33 

Quails  with  Toast 34 

Chicken  Pie 34 

Chicken  or  Veal  Croquettes 34 

Quennels  or  Croquettes 34 

Chicken  Croquettes 35 


Naiads  and  Side  Dishes. 


Chicken  Salad.. 36 

Chicken  Salad 37 

Potato  Salad 37 

Potato  Salad 38 

Salmon  Salad 38 

Oyster  Salad.... 38 

Oyster  Salad 39 

Lobster  Salad 39 


Summer  Breakfast  Salad 39 

Oysters — a  la  Chambord 40 

Pommes — a  la  Gratin 40 

Chicken  Cheese 40 

A  Favorite  Dish ,  ...  41 

Slaw 41 

Hot  Slaw 41 


Mashed  Potatoes....,  42 

Potato  Cakes 42 

To  Boil  New  Potatoes 42 

Saratoga  Potatoes 42 

To  Bake  Potatoes 43 

Fried  Potatoes 43 

Potatoes  Baked  with  Beef. 43 

Potato  Croquettes 43 

Potato  Puffs 43 


Vegetables. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 43 

To  Bake  Sweet  Potatoes 44 

Baked  Tomatoes 44 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 44 

Fricasseed  Chicken  45 

Green  Corn  Pudding 45 

To  Boil  Corn  on  the  Cob  45 

Peas 45 

Cabbage  to  Boil 45 


INDEX. 


159 


Cabbage  Pudding 46 

To  Cook  Cabbage  Quickly 46 

Southern  Cabbage 46 

Boiled  Cabbage 46 

Fried  Cabbage 46 

Southern  Rice 47 

Lima  Beans 47 

Baked  Pork  and  Beans 47 

Macaroni 47 

Succotash 47 

Boiled  Beets 48 

Turnips 48 


Parsnips 48 

Vegetable  Oyster 48 

Asparagus 48 

Boiled  Onions 48 

Fried  Egg  Plant 45 

Boiled  Carrots 49 

Boiled   Hominy 49 

To  Boil  String  Beans 49 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 49 

Parsnips,   Sauted 50 

Salsify 50 

Cauliflower 50 


Eggs  and  Cooked  Grains. 


Omelette 51 

Cheese  Omelette 52 

Scrambled  Eggs 52 

Baked  Eggs 52 

Poached  Eggs 52 

Scrambled  Eggs 53 

To  Fry  Eggs 53 

To  Prepare  Eggs  for  Lunch 53 

Oyster  Omelette 53 


Stuffed  Eggs 53 

To  Keep  Eggs 54 

Cracked  Wheat 54 

Oatmeal  Porridge 54 

Hominy 54 

Hominy  Fritters 54 

To  Cook  Hominy 55 

Dutch  Cheese 55 


Bread. 


Light  Bread 56 

To  make  Yeast  and  light  Bread....  56 

Light  Bread 57 

Salt-Rising  Bread 57 

Salt-Rising  Bread 58 

Boston  Brown  Bread 58 

Brown  Bread 58 

Cinnamon  Rolls 59 

Waffles 59 

Muffins 59 

Soda  Biscuit 59 

Soda  Biscuit 60 

Yeastpowder  Biscuits 60 

Beat  Biscuit 60 

French  Biscuits 60 


Indian  Bread 61 

Recipe  for  Corn  Bread 61 

Fritters 61 

Corn  Batter  Bread .  61 

Egg   Bread 61 

Corn  Batter  Cakes 62 

Corn  Mufifins 62 

Plain  Corn  Bread 62 

Sally  Lunn 62 

Buffets  for  Tea 62 

Moonshine  Toast 63 

French  Toast. 63 

Bread  Cakes 63 

Breakfast  Cakes 63 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 64 


Puddiiigjji. 


General  Directions 65 

Fruit  Pudding 65 

Suet  Pudding 66 

Dover  Pudding 66 

Boiled  Raisin  Pudding 66 


Graham  Pudding 66 

Woodford  Pudding 67 

A  Spiced  Apple  Pudding 67 

Tapioca  Pudding 67 

Cocoanut  Pudding.    68 


160 


THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


Puddings.— Continued. 


Mountain  Deer  Pudding 68 

Delmonico  Pudding 69 

Sponge  Pudding 69 

Orange  Pudding 69 

Corn  Starch  Pudding 69 

"Dandy"  Pudding. 70 

Snow  Pudding 70 

Gelatine  Pudding 70 

Sauces  for  Pudding-s. 


Orange  Roley  Poley 71 

Brown  Betty 71 

Queen  of  Puddings 71 

Rice  Pudding 71 

Cottage  Pudding 72 

Simple  Pudding 72 

Virginia  Pudding 72 


ButterSauce 73 

Butter  Sauce  with  Eggs 73 

A  Plainer  Sauce 73 

Wine  Sauce 73 

Foam  Sauce 74 

Cream  Sauce 74  ' 

Pies. 


Strawberry  Sauce 74 

Cold  Cream  Sauce 74 

Plain  Cream  Sauce 74 

Whipped  Cream  Sauce 74 

Sauce 74 


Pastry 75 

Mincemeat 75 

"Temperance"  Mincemeat 76 

Mincemeat 7^ 

Mock  Mincemeat.. 76 

Lemon  Pies 76 

Lemon  Pie... 77 

Lemon  Pie 7^ 

Transparent  Pie yS 

Chess  Pie 7^ 

Cream  Pie 7^ 

A  Nice  Filling  for  Pie 79 

Molasses  Pie 79 

Apple  Custard  Pie 79 

Green  Apple  Pie 79 


Baked  Apple  Dumplings 79 

Baked  Apple  Roll 80 

Apple  Cobbler 80 

Dried  Apple  Pie 80 

Fried  Apple  Pie 80 

Cherry  Roll 81 

Tiffey  Pudding 81 

Pie  Plant  Pie 81 

Strawberry  Cream  Pie 81 

Irish  Potato  Pie 82 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 82 

Pumpkin  Pie 82 

Fruit  Pudding 83 

Cocoanut  Pie 83 

Pie  for  Dyspeptics 83 


Xice  Desserts. 


Russian  Cream 84 

Velvet  Cream 84 

Charlotte  Russe 84 

Sponge  Roll 85 

Blanc  Mange 85 

Ambrosia 85 

Apple  Meringue 85 

Apple  Float 85 

lien's  Nest 86 

Orange  Ice 86 


Pine  Apple 86 

Tutti  Frutti 86 

Chocolate  Cream 87 

Peach  Ice-Cream 87 

BananaCream 7 

Ice-Cream 87 

Orange  Ice 88 

Strawberry  Ice 88 

Pine-Apple  Ice 

Lemon  Ice 88 


INDEX. 


161 


IVice  Desserts.— Continued. 


Lemon  Ice 89 

Delmonico 89 

Pineapple  Ice 89 

Pineapple  Sherbet 89 

Pineapple  Sherbet 90 


Pineapple  Jelly 90 

Pineapple  Gelatine 90 

Wine  Jelly 90 

Lemon  Foam 91 

Boiled  Custard 91 


Cakes. 


General  Directions 92 

Icing  Boiled 92 

Icing  Cold 93 

Chocolate  Icing 93 

Icing  Without  Eggs 93 

Fruit 94 

Fruit  or  Black 94 

White  Fruit 95 

Spice  95 

Hickory  Nut 95 

Prince  of  Wales 96 

Tiayer 

Hash 100 

Caramel.  100 

Raisin icxd 

Bon  Ton loi 

Chocolate  Filling  for  Cake loi 

Lemon  Butter loi 

Lemon  Filling loi 

Orange. 102 

French  Cream 102 

Cream 102 


Pound ,96 

White 96 

Gold 97 

Choice  Fig 97 

White  Tea 97 

Silver  Bunn 98 

White 98 

Angels'  Food 98 

Dolly  Varden ,,  99 

Sponge 99 

Dried  Apple 99 

Cakes. 

White  Mountain 103 

Custard 103 

Velvet  Sponge 103 

Chocolate 104 

Ice-Cream , 104 

Lemon  Jelly 104 

Ribbon 105 

Prince  of  Wales 105 

Almond 105 


Plain  Cakes. 


Coffee 106 

Cup 106 

Ginger  Bread 106 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 106 


GingerCake 107 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 107 

Ginger  Snaps 108 

Scotch  Cakes 108 


Cookies. 


Sweet  Cakes 109 

Cookies 109 

Crullers 109 

Lep  Kuchen 109 

German  Cookies no 

Drop  Cakes. no 

Apie  Cakes no 

Little  Cakes no 

Jumbles 1 1 1 


Small  Nut  Cakes ni 

Macaroons ni 

Boston  Cream  Cakes ni 

Doughnuts... 112 

Cream  Doughnuts n2 

Knickerbocker  Crullers .  n2 

Sugar  Kisses n3 

Scotch  Wafers ii^ 


162 


THE  MISSOURI  COOK  BOOK. 


Confectionery. 


Directions  for  Candy  Making 114 

Vanilla  Cream  Candy 114 

Cream  for  Bon  Bons 114 

Taffy 115 

Butterscotch , 115 

Cocoanut  Caramels...., 115 

Hickorynut  Macaroons 115 

Walnut  Candy 116 


Kisses 116 

Candy 116 

Cocoanut  Candy 116 

Peanut  Candy 116 

Fig,  Date  and  Nut  Candy 117 

Sugar  Candy. 117 

To  Sugar  or  Crystalize  Pop-Corn...   117 
Salted  Peanuts 118 


Pickles. 


Directions 119 

Cucumber 119 

Pepper  Mangoes 120 

Spanish 120 

Chopped  Tomato 120 

Cabl^age 121 

Yellow 121 

Chow-Chow 121 

Chow-Chow 122 

Chili  Sauce 123 

Eye-Opener  Catsup 123 


Ripe  Tomato  Catsup 123 

Tomato  Catsup 124 

Chili  Sauce 124 

Green  Tomato  Sweet  Pickle 124 

Watermelon  Sweet  Pickle 124 

Fig  Sweet  Pickle 124 

Peach  Sweet  Pickle 125 

To    Pickle    Pears,    Plums,   Grapes 

and  Crab-Apples 125 

To  Pickle  Cherries 125 


Fruits. 

General  Directions 126  |  Candied  Fruits 129 


Preserved  Peaches 126 

Preserved  Pears 127 

Preserved  Quinces 127 

Preserved  Apples 127 

Preserved  Crab-Apples 127 

Preserved  Citron 127 

Tomato  Preserves 128 

Grape  Preserves 128 


Raspberryjam 129 

Blackberry  Jam 129 

Marmalades  130 

Brandy  Peaches 130 

Peach  Butter 130 

Apple  Jelly 130 

Apple  Jelly 131 

Siberian  Crab-Apple  Jelly 131 


Strawberry  Preserves 129  1  Currant  Jelly 132 

Canning. 


To  Can  Tomatoes 133 

Canned  Corn 133 

To  Can  Corn 133 


To  Can  Peaches 134 

Canned  Cherries 134 


Family  Beverages. 


Tea 135 

Coffee 135 

Chocolate 136 

Blackberry  Cordial 136 


Blackberry  Wine 136 

Grape  Wine I37 

Currant  Wine I37 


INDEX. 


163 


Medicinal. 


Cure  for  Felon 138 

Remedy  for  Wounds 138 

Remedy  for  Bee  Sting 138 

Bee  Sting 138 

An  Excellent  Salve I39 

A  Sure  Cure  for  Gravel I39 

Cough  Medicine '39 

Food  for 

Beef  Tea Hi 

Mutton  and  Veal  Broth 141 

Chicken  Broth 141 

Sweet  Cider  Soup.  141 

Rye  Mush 142 

Corn  Gruel '42 


Cough  Syrup 139 

Remedy  for  Burns 139 

For  Sore  Throat 140 

To    Remove    Discoloration    from 

Bruises 140 

Mustard  Plaster 140 

Cure  for  Chapped  Hands 140 

tlie  Siclt. 

Oatmeal  Gruel 142 

Panada 142 

Boiled  Custard 142 

Egg-Nog 143 

Thickened  Milk I43 


Mis^cellaneou!^. 


Recipe  for  Hard  Soap 

To  Mix  Whitewash 

Whitewash  for  Buildings  or  Fences. 

Economical  Paint 

To  Stop  Cracks  in  Iron  Vessels.. . 

Cement 

Cement  for  China 

To  Remove  Mildew 

Cleansing  Fluid 

Hair  Wash 

Hair  Wash  "  Eureka  " 

Washing  Compound 

Powder  for  Scent  Bngs 

To  Prevent  Rusting 

To  Polish  Tinware 


146 
146 
146 
147 
147 
147 
147 
147 
147 
148 
148 


148 


To  restore  Furniture 149 

Scouring  Liquid  for  Brass 149 

Spots  on  Varnished  Furniture 149 

To  Clean  Silver 149 

To  Remove  a  Glass  Stopper 149 

For  Taking  Out  Grease  Spots 149 

To  Extract  Ink 150 

To  Take  Ink  Out  of  Linen 150 

To  Remove  Tar 150 

Stove  Polish 15° 

To  Wash  Oil-Cloth 150 

Sweetening  Stone  Jars 150 

Rancid  Butter 151 

A  Useful  Drug 151 

To  Clean  Hair  Brushes 151 


ALWAYS  READY  FOR  PASSENGERS  WITH 

BUGGIES,  CARRIAGES  &  HORSES, 


STABLE  EAST  OF  HOTEL  HOWARD. 


DRACE^~BUsPr>  CO., 


-DEALERS    IN- 


Canned  Goods,  China  and  Queensware. 

ALL  KINDS  OF  PRODUCE  TAKEN.  TERMS  STRICTLY  CASH. 


BOUGHNER,  TOLSON  &  SMITH, 
o-ieocEiBs 


ifii 


Also  all  kinds  of  Farm  Machinery,  and  Agricultural  Implements, 
Buggies,  Spring  Wagons,  Sewing  Machines,  etc. 


S'lOULD  ALL  TAKE  THE 
It  is  a  neat.  Instructive  little  paper.     A  great  help  to  new  housekeepers. 


RESTAURANT  p.^"  BAKER, 

CAKES.  CANDIES,  NUTS  AND  CIGARS.  OYSTERS  IN  EVERY  STYLE. 

EAST  SIDE  OF  SQUARE.  FAYETTE,  WIO, 


BF»OOI!x    BIEaK 

EMBROIDERY  AND  KNITTING. 

ANY  THREAD  UNDER  CORTICELLt  BRAND  IS 

ABSOLUTELY   UNEQUALED. 

Tf|e  Tngg  Merfcantsile  Compani], 

BOOmVinEiE.,  -  MISSOUKI, 

CARRY  AT  ALL  TIMKS  THK   MOST  EXTENSIVE   STOCK  OF 

Dry  Goods,  Carpets  and  House  Furnishing  Goods 

IN 

(SE.RITRArA     MISSOURI. 


"  THE  BOSS  GROCERY  HOUSE  " 

KEEP  ON  HAND  THE  NICEST  LINE  OK 

STAPLE  AND  FANCY  GROCERIES, 

Canned   Goods,    Etc. 

FAYETTE,         -         -         -         -         MISSOURI. 


KEEP    A    NICE    LINK    OF 

BOOKS,  STATIONERY,  NOTIONS. 

MONTHLY  MAGAZINES  FOR  SALE.  FA  YE    I      TEy     IVIOa 


IMBAlLIij 


iBiiiiiiiiSift 


-DEALERS   IN- 


Paints,  Oil,  Stationery,  Etc. 

Prescriptions  Carefully  Filled. 

PHYSICIAN  AND  SURGEON, 

Office  over  Tindall  &  Smith's  Drug  Store, 


.iL._  a"_  IFXJI^IK  &:  (OC).. 


-DEALERS    IN- 


I^eal  E^Me  and  In^uiiance  Bu^ine^^. 

Abstracts  of  Titles  Made  for  Tliose  Desiring  to  Invest  in  Howard 
County  Land,  or  Loan  Money  on  Same. 


IP-iL-^-ETTE. 


IbvCISSOTJil^I- 


WATKHMiKER, 

AND   DEALER    IN 

STATIONERY,  MUSICAL  AND 
FANCY  GOODS. 

All  Sporting  Goods  a  Specialty. 

SUPPLIES   FOR  ALL  MACHINKS. 

h^     Repairing  of  all  kinds  done  at  Sltor 
^^^  Notice. 

FAYETTE.;  MO. 


Of  all  Varieties  and  at  the  NIost  Reasonable  Prices, 

CAN    np.   TKOCURED    FKMM  THE 

INDEPENDENCE,  MO. 

Roses,  Pansies,  Verbenas,  Geraniums,  Colein,  &c.,  and  all  the  choice  new  varie- 
ties of  Plants,  sent  by  Express.     Express  charges  are  light.     Illustrated 
Catalogue  mailed  free.     Address, 

N.  S.  GRIFFITH,  Independence,  Mo. 


PRESCRIPTIONS  CAREFULLY  FILLED  AT  ALL  HOURS. 

^$-EA5T  SIDE  OF  PUBLIC  SQUARE-$S> 


<ID.  0.  M0RR1SI> 


-DEALER    IN- 


Laths,  Shingles,  Sash,  Doors,  Blinds,  Lime,  Hair,  Cement. 


-AND   ALL   KINDS   OF- 


HARDWARE    FOR    BUILDERS. 

OFFICE  AND  YARD  NEAR  THE  DEPOT. 

TFRMS  STRICTLY  CASH.  FAYETTE,     MO. 


Fine  Dr^ij  (Jood?,  Hotion^,  Cloal^?,  lyjillinei^y,  M$$  lqo:d? 

TOYS,  GENTS'  FURNISHING  GOODS,  AT  THE  LOWEST  PRICES, 


-VISIT    THE- 


^;7^.    IP,    IPOTTS, 

DEALER   IN 

Clocks,  Watches,  Jewelry,  Solid  Silver  &  Plated  Ware. 

FINE   WORK   A   SPECIALTY. 

-m-Ml  KINDS  OF  REPAIRING  AND  ENGRAVING  DONE  ON  SHORT  NOTICE.H^ 

DEALERS    IN    ALL    KINDS    OF 

House  Furnishing  Goods,  Carpets,  Stoves,  Tinware,  etc. 

FURNITURE  REPAIRING  A  SPECIALTY.  FAYETTE,  MO. 

W,  F,  MITCHELL,       -       -       Proprietor, 

rAYETTE,   MO. 

Leaders  of  MILLINERY.  DRY   GOODS,   NOTIONS,  HOSIERY,    ETC.      ALSO  5 
AND  10  CENT  DEPARlMENT. 


THE  OLD  RELIABLE  SHOP 


-KEEPS    ON    HAND- 


BUGGIES,  SPRING  WAGONS,  also  MANUFACTURER  of  the  FAYETTE  WAGON. 


T.  lEiiEiKiKinsr^. 


-DEALER    IN- 


FINE  CIGARS,  TOBACCO,  PIPES,  &c, 


ONE  DOOR  SOUTH  OF  POST-OFFICE. 


^OSELPFI    MEIMMELIL, 

BLACKSMITH  &  WAGON  MAKER. 

ALL  KINDS  OF  REPAIRING  DONE  NEATLY  AND  ON  SHORT  NOTICE. 


The  AheriCan  Baptist  puBLi^Tiopl  ^dCietV. 

GENERAL  THEOLOGICAL  AND  SUNDAY  SCHOOL 

SUPPLY   STORE. 

- — ^^^Ci  A  -N/ns-r  .-rrea  S^:asTT   ^'IStEE   -UTClSr   .£i.T=:E'XjXC-A.TI02:T.,-^ — ^  . 

ST.    LOUIS,    MO. 


TRASKS 


CHEAPEST  EATING  ON  EARTH. 

Ask  Your  Grocer  for  them. 

IE  THE  ORIGINAL 
ONLY   GENUINE! 


TRASK'SVH 


A  copy  of  this  Superb  Work  of  Art  will 

ke  no  other  Brand.         i^q  mailed  to  any  address  on  raceipt  of 
TKASK  FISH  CO..  ST.  LOUIS,  MO.  ten  cents. 


Thos.  J.  Payne,  Pres't. 


R.   P.  Williams,  Vice-Pres't. 


E.  W.   Bedford,  Cashier. 


PAYNE  &  WILLIAMS'  BANK, 

FAYETTE,    MO. 


I^_    C.    CIL-i^ieiE^. 


FAYETTE,  MO. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


■"""'"III  "II    llllllillllllnmilji 

0  011  791  787  3 


».XiliiiiCiiliiiliiiXiif»jili(Si^^i(i^ti^i^^^ 


'^m^ 


