MISS    BEECHER'S 


DOMESTIC  RECEIPT  BOOK: 


DESIGNED   AS  A 


SUPPLEMENT 


TO    HER 


TREATISE  ON  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


NEW    YORK: 
HARPER  &  BROTHERS,  82  CLIFF  STREET, 

1846. 


^^ 


X'    v^ 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1846,  by 

Harper  &  Brothers, 
In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  Southern  District  of  New- York. 


1? 


/ 


of 


PREFACE.  /-^^ 


The  following-  objects  are  aimed  at  in  this  work  : 

First,  to  furnish  an  original  collection  of  receipts,  which 
shall  embrace  a  great  variety  of  simple  and  well-cooked 
dishes,  designed  for  every-day  comfort  and  enjoyment. 

Second,  to  include  in  the  collection  only  such  receipts  as 
have  been  tested  by  superior  housekeepers,  and  warranted 
to  be  the  best.  It  is  not  a  book  made  up  in  any  department 
by  copying  from  other  books,  but  entirely  from  the  experi- 
ence of  the  best  practical  housekeepers. 

Third,  to  express  every  receipt  in  language  which  is  short, 
simple,  and  perspicuous,  and  yet  to  give  all  directions  so 
minutely  as  that  the  book  can  be  kept  in  the  kitchen,  and 
be  used  by  any  domestic  w^ho  can  read,  as  a  guide  in  every 
one  of  her  employments  in  the  kitchen. 

Fourth,  to  furnish  such  directions  in  regard  to  small  din- 
ner-parnes  and  evening  company  as  will  enable  any  young 
housekeeper  to  perform  her  part,  on  such  occasions,  with 
ease,  comfort,  and  success. 

Fifth,  to  present  a  good  supply  of  the  rich  and  elegant 
dishes  demanded  at  entertainments,  and  yet  to  set  forth  a 
large  variety  of  what  is  both  healthful  and  good,  in  con- 
nexion with  warnings  and  suggestions  which  it  is  hoped 
may  avail  to  promote  a  more  healthful  fashion  in  regard 
both  to  entertainments  and  to  daily  table  supplies.  No 
book  of  this  kind  will  sell  without  receipts  for  the  rich  ar- 
ticles which  custom  requires,  and  in  furnishing  them,  the 
writer  has  aimed  to  follow  the  example  of  Providence,  which 
scatters  profusely  both  good  and  ill,  and  combines  therewith 
the  caution  alike  of  experience,  revelation,  and  conscience, 
"  choose  ye  that  which  is  good,  that  ye  and  your  seed  may 
live." 

Sixth,  in  the  work  on  Domestic  Economy,  together  with 


IV  PREFACE. 

this,  to  which  it  is  a  Supplement,  the  writer  has  attempted  to 
secure  in  a  cheap  and  popular  form,  for  American  house- 
keepers, a  work  similar  to  an  English  work  which  she  has 
examined,  entitled  the  Encyclopccdia  of  Domestic  Economy^ 
hy  Thomas  Webster  and  Mrs.  Parkes,  containing  over 
twelve  hundred  octavo  pages  of  closely-printed  matter,  treat- 
ing on  every  department  of  Domestic  Economy  ;  a  work 
which  will  be  found  much  more  useful  to  English  women, 
who  have  a  plenty  of  money  and  well-trained  servants,  than 
to  American  housekeepers.  It  is  believed  that  most,  in  that 
work,  which  would  be  of  any  practical  use  to  American 
housekeepers,  will  be  found  in  this  work  and  the  Domestic 
Economy. 

Lastly,  the  writer  has  aimed  to  avoid  the  defects  complain- 
ed of  by  most  housekeepers  in  regard  to  works  of  this  descrip- 
tion, issued  in  this  country,  or  sent  from  England,  such  as 
that,  in  some  cases,  the  receipts  are  so  rich  as  to  be  both  ex- 
pensive and  unhealthful ;  in  others,  that  they  are  so  vaguely 
expressed  as  to  be  very  imperfect  guides ;  in  others,  that 
the  processes  are  so  elaborate  and  fussing  as  to  make  double 
the  work  that  is  needful ;  and  in  others,  that  the  topics  are 
so  limited  that  some  departments  are  entirely  omitted,  and 
all  are  incomplete. 

In  accomplishing  these  objects,  the  writer  has  received 
contributions  of  the  pen,  and  verbal  communications,  from 
some  of  the  most  judicious  and  practical  housekeepers,  in 
almost  every  section  of  this  country. 


CONTENTS. 


CAAPTER  I. 


ON  SELECTING  FOOD  AND  DRINKS  WITH  REFERENCE  TO  HEALTH. 

Nourishing  and  unstimulatmg  Food.  Nourishing  and  stimulating 
food.  Food  that  stimulates  without  nourishing.  Food  that  is  en- 
tirely Undigestible.  Food  that  is  unhealthful  in  nature,  or  made 
so  by  cooking.  Liquid  aliments,  or  drinks.  Other  Hquid  ali- 
ments, or  drinks,  ----___.         _i 


CHAPTER  II. 


MARKETING CARE    AND    USES    OF    MEATS. 

Selection  and  uses  of  meats.  Modes  of  cooking  and  using  the  dif- 
ferent parts  of  animals.  Beef  Veal.  Mutton.  Pork.  Mar- 
keting. On  the  Cure  of  Meats.  Directions  for  cutting  up  a  Hog. 
To  try  out  Lard.  Directions  for  salting  down  Pork.  Mr.  H.  H.'s 
Receipt  for  Curing  Hams.  To  prepare  Cases  for  Sausages. 
Sausage  Meat.  Bologna  Sausages.  Another  Receipt  for  Sausage 
Meat.  Pickle  for  Beef,  Pork,  Tongues,  or  Hung  Beef  Another 
by  measure,  and  with  less  trouble.  To  salt  down  Beef  to  keep  the 
year  round.  To  Cleanse  Calf's  Head  and  Feet.  To  Prepare 
Rennet,  -________.     26 


CHAPTER  III. 

BOILED    MEATS. 

To  cook  a  Ham  (very  fine).  Smoked  Boiled  Tongues.  A  la  Mode 
Beef  Another  k  la  Mode  Beef  To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Veal  or  Mut- 
ton. Pot  Pie,  of  Beef,  Veal,  or  Chicken.  Calf's  Head.  Curried 
Dishes.  To  Prepare  Curry  Powder.  Veal  Stew.  Another  Veal 
Stew  (very  fine).  To  Stew  Birds.  A  fine  Mutton  Stew.  A  Sau- 
sage Stew.  To  Bake  Beef  Beef,  or  Mutton  and  Potatoe  Pie. 
To  Cook  Pigeons.  Beef  or  Veal  Stewed  with  Apples  (very  good). 
To  Boil  a  Turkey.     To  Boil  Corned  Beef,  -         -        -        -     3S 


VI  CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  IV. 


ROASTED    AND    BAKED    MEATS. 

General  Remarks.  Roast  Beef.  Roast  Lamb.  Roast  Mutton. 
Roast  Veal.  To  Roast  a  Fillet  or  Leg  of  Veal.  Baked,  or  Roast- 
ed Pig.  To  Roast  a  Spare  Rib.  Roast  Turkey.  Roast  Goose, 
Roast  Chickens.  Roast  Ducks.  Mutton  and  Beef  Pie.  Chicken 
Pie.  Mutton  Haricot.  To  Cook  a  Shoulder  of  Lamb.  Rice 
Chicken  Pie.     Potatoe  Pie,         --_____     43 


CHAPTER  V. 

FRIED    AND    BROILED    MEATS. 

General  Remarks.  A  nice  Way  of  Cooking  Calf's  or  Pig's  Liver. 
Fried  Veal  Cutlets.  Fricassee  Chickens.  Meats  Warmed  over. 
A  nice  Way  of  Cooking  Cold  Meats.  A  Hash  of  Cold  Meat  for 
Dinner  (very  good).  Cold  Meat  Turnovers.  Head  Cheese. 
Souse.  Tripe.  Force  Meat  Balls  (another  Hash.)  To  Prepare 
Cold  Beef  Steaks.  A  nice  Way  of  Cooking  Cold  Boiled  Ham. 
Another  way  of  Cooking  Cold  Ham.  A  Veal  Hash.  Veal  Balls 
(another  Hash).  Broiled  Meats.  General  Remarks.  Broiled  Ham. 
Broiled  Veal  Cutlets.  Broiled  Mutton  Chops.  Broiled  Pork 
Steaks.  Beef  Steaks.  Beef  Liver.  To  Poach  Eggs.  To  Boil 
Eggs.  A  Salt  Relish.  Egg  Frizzle  (very  good).  Frizzled  Beef 
Veal  Cheese.  A  Codfish  Relish.  Another  Way,  Salt  Her- 
rings, - 


50 


CHAPTER  VI. 


SOUPS. 


French  Vegetable  Soup.  Plain  Calf's  Head  Soup.  An  Excellent 
Simple  Mutton  Soup.  Pea  Soup.  Portable  Soup.  A  Ricli  Mock 
Turtle  Soup.  Another  Dry  Pea  Soup.  Clam  Soup.  Oyster 
Soup.  Veal  Soup.  Macaroni  Soup  (Mrs.  F.'s  Receipt).  South- 
ern Gumbo  (Mrs.  L.'s  Receipt).     Giblct  Soup,  -        -        -     57 


CHAPTER  VII. 

FISH. 


Directions  for  making  Chowder.  To  Fry  Fish.  To  Boil  Fish. 
To  Broil  Fish.  Baked  Fish.  Cod  Sounds  and  Tongues.  To 
Cook  Salt  Codfish.     To  Cook  Cold  Codfish.     To  Cook  Oysters. 


CONTENTS.  Vll 

Lobsters.  Scolloped  Oysters.  Pickled  Oysters.  To  Crimp  Fresh 
Fish.  To  Cook  Eels.  To  Cook  Scollops.  A  Good  Way  of  Using 
Cold  Fresh  Fish.     To  Cook  Clams,  62 


*        CHAPTER  VIII. 

ON    THE    PREPAE.ATION    OF    HASHES,    GRAVIES,    AND    SAUCES. 

To  prepare  Gravy  for  a  Cold  Beef  Hash,  or  Steak  Hash.  Gravy 
for  a  Mutton  Hash,  or  Venison  Hash.  To  prepare  a  Veal  Hash. 
Common  Gravies.  Drawn  Butter,  or  Melted  Butter.  Another 
Mode  of  preparing  Drawn  Butter.  Drawn  Meat  Gravies,  or 
Brown  Gravies.  Nice  Article  to  use  for  Gravy,  or  Soup.  Burnt 
Butter  for  Fish,  or  Eggs.  Sauce  for  Salad,  or  Fish.  Wine  Sauce 
for  Mutton  or  Venison.  Oyster  Sauce.  Lobster  Sauce.  Apple 
Sauce.  Celery  Sauce  for  Boiled  Fowls.  Celery  Vinegar.  Es- 
sence of  Celery,  to  flavor  Soup.  Herb  Spirit.  Soup  Powder, 
Soy.     Tomato  Catsup.     Mushroom  Catsup,     Walnut  Catsup,      -    GG 


CHAPTER  IX, 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  Boiled  Potatoes,  Other  Modes  of  Cooking  Potatoes, 
Turnips,  Asparagus.  Beets.  Parsnips  and  Carrots.  Onions. 
Jerusalem  Artichokes.  Squashes.  Cabbage  and  Cauliflov^^ers. 
Peas.  Sweet  Corn.  Succatosh.  Beans.  Egg  Plant.  Baked 
Beans.  Tomatoes.  Greens.  Cucumbers.  Macaroni.  Another 
Way.  To  Cook  Hominy.  Macaroni  Pudding,  to  eat  with  Meat. 
Salad.  Mode  of  Dressing  Salad.  Mushroom,  Celeriac.  Sal- 
sify, or  Vegetable  Oyster.  Southern  Mode  of  Cooking  Rice. 
Common  Mode  of  Cooking  Rice.  Best  Mode  of  Cooking  Toma- 
toes.    Sweet  Potatoes.     Artichokes.     Stewed     Egg  Plant,  -     73 


CHAPTER  X. 

OVENS,    YEAST,    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT. 

On  Constructing  and  Heating  an  Oven.  How  to  know  when  an 
Oven  is  at  the  right  Heat.  How  to  know  when  Bread  is  Sour, 
or  Heavy.  How  to  treat  Bread  when  taken  from  the  Oven. 
Yeast.  Potatoe  Yeast.  Home-made  Yeast,  which  will  keep  good 
a  Month.  Home-brewed  Yeast  more  easily  made.  Hard  Yeast. 
Rubs,  or  Flour  Hard  Yeast.  Milk  Yeast.  Wheat  Bread  of  Distil- 
lery, or  Brewer's  Yeast.  W'heat  Bread  of  Home-brewed  Yeast. 
Baker's  Bread.  Wheat  Bread  of  Potatoe  Yeast.  Potatoe  Bread. 
Cream  Tartar  Bread.  Eastern  Brown  Bread.  Rye  Bread.  Rice 
Bread. — No.  1.     Rice  Bread.— No.  2.     Apple  Bread.     Pumpkin 


VlU  CONTENTS. 

Bread.  Walnut  Hill's  Brown  Bread.  French  Rolls,  or  Twists. 
Raised  Biscuit.  Very  Nice  Rusk.  Potatoe  Biscuit.  Crackers. 
Hard  Biscuit.    Sour  Milk  Biscuit.    A  good  Way  to  use  Sour  Bread,     83 


CHAPTER  XI. 


BREAKFAST    AND    TEA    CAKES. 

General  Directions  for  Griddle  and  other  Breakfast  Cakes,  Buck- 
wheat Cakes  wet  with  Water.  Extempore  Buckwheat  Cakes. 
Buckwheat  Cakes  wet  with  Milk.  Griddle  Cakes  of  Unbolted 
Wheat.  Best  Rice  Griddle  Cakes.  A  very  delicate  Omelet. 
Wheat  Waffles.  Miss  B.'s  Waffles  (without  yeast).  Rice  Waf- 
fles. Good  Cakes  for  Tea,  or  Breakfast.  Fried  Rice  for  Break- 
fast. Fried  Hominy.  Rye  Drop  Cake  (excellent).  Wheat  Drop 
Cake.  Corn  Griddle  Cakes  with  Yeast.  Pilgrim  Cake.  Sour 
Milk  Corn  Cake.  Corn  Muffins  (from  the  South).  Corn  Griddle 
Cakes  with  Eggs.  Sachem's  Head  Corn  Cake.  Royal  Crumpets. 
Bachelor's  Corn  Cake.  Mrs.  W.'s  Corn  Cake.  Corn  Muffins. 
Savoy  Biscuit.  Cream  Cakes.  Wheat  Muffins.  Albany  Break- 
fast Cakes.  Sally  Lunn.  Cream  Tea  Cakes.  Buttermilk  Short 
Cakes.  Wafers.  Pennsylvania  Flannel  Cakes.  Kentucky  Corn 
Dodgers.  Ohio  Corn  Cake.  Scarborough  Puffs.  Cream  Griddle 
Cakes.     Crumpets.     Fine  Cottage  Cheese,  -        -        -        -     94 


CHAPTER  XII. 


PLAIN    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES. 

General  Directions  in  regard  to  Puddings  and  Custards.  Little 
Girl's  Pie.  Little  Boy's  Pudding.  Children's  Fruit  Dumpling. 
Birth-day  Pudding.  Children's  Boiled  Fruit  Pudding.  English 
Curd  Pie.  Fruit  Fritters.  Common  Apple  Pie.  Plam  Custard, 
A  Richer  Custard.  Another  Custard.  Mush,  or  Hasty  Pudding. 
Stale  Bread  Fritters  (fine).  To  prepare  Rennet.  Rennet  Cus- 
tard. Bird's  Nest  Pudding.  A  Minute  Pudding  of  Potatoe  Starch. 
Tapioca  Pudding.  Sago  Pudding.  Cocoanut  Pudding  (Plain). 
New  England  Squash,  or  Pumpkin  Pic.  Ripe  Fruit  pTes.  Bat- 
ter Pudding.  Mock  Cream.  Bread  Pudding.  Sunderland  Pud- 
ding. An  Excellent  Apple  Pie.  Boiled  Apple  Pudding.  Spiced 
Apple  Tarts.  Boiled  Indian  Pudding.  Baked  Indian  Puddino-. 
Rice  Balls,  or  German  Pudding.  Apple  Custard.  Rhubarb  Pie. 
Plain  Macaroni  or  Vermacelli  Puddings.  Green  Corn  Puddino-.* 
Bread  Pudding  for  Invalids,  or  Young  Children.  Plain  Rice 
Pudding,  without  Eggs.  Another  Sago  Pudding.  Oat  Meal 
Mush.  Modes  of  Preparing  Apples  for  the  Table.  Fruit  Cus- 
tards. Modes  of  Preparing  Rice  for  the  Dinner  or  Tea  Table. 
Rice  and  Meat  Pudding.  Modes  of  preparing  Dishes  with  Dry 
Bread,  or  Bread  so  old  as  to  be  not  good  for  the  table,  -        -  104 


CONTENTS.  IX 

s 

CHAPTER  XIII. 

KICH    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES. 

Ellen's  Pudding,  or  Rhubarb  Tart.  Nottingham  Pudding.  Rice 
Plum  Pudding.  Eve's  Pudding  (the  best  kind).  Baked  English 
Plum  Pudding.  A  Boiled  English  Plum  Pudding.  Almond 
Cheese  Cake.  Cocoanut  Pudding.  Arrowroot  Pudding.  Ground 
Rice  Pudding.  Mrs.  O.'s  Pumpkin  Pie.  Cracker  Plum  Pudding 
(excellent).  Minced  Pie.  Marlborough  Pudding.  Orange,  or 
Lemon  Pudding.  Sweet  Potatoe  Pudding.  Quince  Pudding. 
Paste  for  Puddings  and  Pies.  Healthful  Pie  Crusts.  Paste  made 
with  Butter.  Directions  for  making  Paste.  Puff  Paste.  Sauces 
for  Puddings,  Liquid  Sauce.  Hard  Sauce.  A  Healthful  Pud- 
ding Sauce.     An  excellent  Sauce  for  Boiled  Rice,         .         .         .  121 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

PLAIN    CAKES. 

General  Directions  for  Making  Cake.  Rose  Butter.  Directions  for 
Cleansing  Currants.  Frosting  for  Cake.  Cake  Frosting  (an- 
other, which  is  harder).  Good  Child's  Cake.  Ginger  Snaps. 
Child's  Feather  Cake.  Best  Molasses  Gingerbread.  Sponge 
Gingerbread.  Cider  Cake.  Cup  Cake  without  Eggs.  Cream 
Cake  without  Eggs.  Cream  Tartar  Cake,  without  Eggs.  Fruit 
Cake  without  Eggs.  Drop  Cake.  Sugar  Gingerbread  (rich). 
Sugar  Gingerbread  (plainer).  Sponge  Cake.  Bridget's  Bread 
Cake  (excellent).  Doughnuts.  Cookies  (plain).  French  Cake. 
Walnut  Hill's  Doughnuts.  Cocoanut  Cup  Cake.  Cocoanut 
Sponge  Cake.  Lemon  Cake. — No.  1.  Gingernuts.  Honey- 
Cake.  New  Year's  Cookies.  Boston  Cream  Cake.  Almond, 
Hickory,  or  Cocoanut  Cake.  Caraway  Cakes.  Fruit  Drop  Cakes. 
Dr.  B.'s  Loaf  Cake.  Fancy  Cakes.  Fried  Curd  Cakes.  Wine 
Cake.  Egg  Rusk.  Citron  Tea  Cakes.  French  Biscuit  (Mrs. 
Dr.  C),  130 

CHAPTER  XV. 

RICH    CAKES. 

Old  Hartford  Election  Cake  (100  years  old\  Raised  Loaf  Cake. 
Mrs.  H.'s  Raised  Wedding  Cake  (very  fine).  Yeast  for  the  above 
Cake.  Fruit  Cake,  or  Black  Cake.  Pound  Cake.  French  Loaf 
Cake.  Portugal  Cake.  Golden  Cake.  Silver  Calce.  Shrews- 
bury Cake.  Queen's  Cake.  Crullars.  Lemon  Cake. — No.  2. 
Almond  Cake.  Lemon  Drop  Cakes.  Jelly  Cake.  Cocoanut 
Drops.     Sugar  Drops,        _._.___-  14G 


X  \    CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  XVI. 

PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 

General  Directions  for  making  Preserves  and  Jellies.  To  Clarify 
Syrup  for  Sweetmeats.  Brandy  Peaches.  Peaches  (not  very 
rich).  Peaches  (very  elegant).  To  preserve  Quinces  Whole. 
Quince  Jelly.  Calf's  Foot  Jelly.  To  preserve  Apples.  Pear. 
Pineapple  (very  fine).  Purple  Plum. — No.  1.  To  preserve 
Oranges.  Purple  Plum. — No.  2.  White,  or  Green  Plum.  Cit- 
ron Melon.  Straw^berries.  Blackberry  Jam.  To  preserve  Cur- 
rants to  eat  with  Meat.  Cherries.  Currants.  Raspberry  Jam. — 
No.  1.  Raspberry  Jam. — No.  2.  Currant  Jelly.  Quince  Mar- 
malade.    Preserved  Watermelon  Rinds,     Preserved  Pumpkin,     -  153 

CHAPTER  XVII. 

PICKLES. 

To  Pickle  Tomatoes,  To  Pickle  Peaches.  To  Pickle  Peppers,  To 
Pickle  Nasturtions.  To  Pickle  Onions.  To  Pickle  Gherkins. 
To  Pickle  Mushrooms.  To  Pickle  Cucumbers.  Pickled  Walnuts. 
Mangoes,  Fine  Pickled  Cabbage,  An  excellent  Way  of  Prepa- 
ring Tomatoes  to  eat  with  Meat.  To  Pickle  Martinoes.  A  con- 
venient Way  to  Pickle  Cucumbers.  Indiana  Pickles,  To  Pickle 
Cauliflower,  or  BrocoH,  _.__.__  [G5 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

ARTICLES    FOR    DESSERTS    AND    EVENING    PARTIES. 

Ice  Cream,  Directions  for  freezing  Ice  Cream,  Philadelphia  Ice 
Cream,  Another  Ice  Cream,  Strawberry  Ice  Cream.  Ice  Cream 
without  Cream.  Fruit  Ice  Cream.  Rich  Custards.  Wine  Cream 
Custard.  Almond  Custard.  A  Cream  for  Stewed  Fruit,  Cur- 
rant, Raspberry,  or  Strawberry  Vv  hi.sk.  Lemonade  Ice,  and  other 
Ices,  Lemon  and  Orange  Cream,  Vanilla  Cream.  A  Cliarlotte 
Russe.  A  Plainer  Charlotte  Russe,  A  Superior  Omelette  Souflee, 
Almond  Cheese  Cake.  Flummery.  Chicken  Salad.  Gelatine, 
or  American  Isinglass  Jelly,  Oranges  in  Jelly,  Jelly  Tarts, 
Sweet  Paste  Jelly  Tarts,  An  Apple  Lemon  Pudding,  Buttermilk 
Pop,  W'heat  Flour  Blanc  Mange,  Orange  Marmalade,  A  sim- 
ple Lemon  Jelly  (easily  made).  Cranberry,  Fruits  Preserved 
without  Cooking,  Apple  Ice  (very  fine).  Lemon,  or  Orange  Ice 
Cream,  Cream  Tarts,  Whip  Syllabub,  Trifles,  Nothings. 
Apple  Snow,  Iced  Fruit,  Ornamental  Froth,  To  Clarify  Isin- 
glass, Blanc  Mange.  Calf's  Foot  Blanc  Mange,  Variegated 
Blanc  Mange.    Jaune  Mange.     Ivory  Dust  Jelly.     Apple  Jelly. 


CONTE^'TS.  XI 

Another  Lemon  Jelly.  Orange  Jelly.  Floating  Island.  An- 
other Syllabub.  An  Ornamental  Dish.  Carrageen  Blanc  Mange 
(Irish  Moss),  A  Dish  of  Snow.  To  Clarify  Sugar.  To  Prepare 
Sugar  for  Candies.  Sugar  Kisses,  Almond  Macaroons.  Filbert 
Macaroons.  Cocoanut  Drops.  Candied  Fruits.  Another  Way. 
To  make  an  Ornamental  Pyramid  for  a  Table,  _        .         -  165 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

TEMPERANCE    DRINKS. 

Ginger  Beer  Powders,  and  Soda  Powders.  Currant  lee  Water. 
Sarsaparilla  Mead,  Effervescing  Fruit  Drinks,  Effervescing 
Jelly  Drinks,  Summer  Beverage.  Simple  C4inger  Beer.  Orange, 
or  Lemon  Syrup,  Acid  Fruit  Syrups.  Imitation  Lemon  Syrup, 
Superior  Ginger  Beer,  Lemon  Sherbet,  Orange  Sherbet.  Sham 
Champagne,  Coffee,  Fish  Skin  for  Coffee.  Chocolate.  Cocoa 
and  Shells.  Tea.  Ochra.  Children's  Drinks,  White  Tea, 
Boy's  Coffee.  Strawberry  Vinegar.  Royal  Strawberry  Acid. 
Delicious  Milk  Lemonade.     Portable  Lemonade,  _        .        -  183 

CHAPTER  XX, 

RECEIPTS    FOR    FOOD    AND    DRINKS    FOR    THE    SICK. 

General  Remarks  on  the  Preparation  of  Articles  for  the  Sick.  An 
Excellent  Relish  for  a  Convalescent,  Several  Ways  of  Preparing 
Chickens  for  the  Sick,  Milk  Porridge,  Rice  Gruel,  and  Oatmeal 
Gruel.  Arrowroot  and  Tapioca  Gruels.  Dropped  Egg.  Wheat 
Gruel  for  Young  Children  with  weak  stomachs,  or  for  Invalids. 
Another  Panada.  Herb  Drinks.  Other  Simple  Drinks.  Cream 
Tartar  Whey.  Simple  Wine  Whey.  A  great  Favorite  with  In- 
valids. A  New  Way  of  making  Barley  Water,  Panada,  Arrow- 
root Blanc  Mange.  Rice  Flour  Blanc  Mange.  Another  Receipt 
for  American  Isinglass  Jelly.  Tapioca  Jelly.  Caudle.  Sago 
Jelly,  Spiced  Chocolate.  Barley  Water.  Water  Gruel.  Beef 
Tea.  Tomato  Syrup.  Arrowroot  Custard  for  Invalids.  Sago  for 
Invalids.  Rice  Jelly.  Sassafras  Jelly,  Buttermilk  Whey.  Almn 
Whey.  Another  Wine  Whey.  Mulled  Wine.  Tamarind  Whey. 
Egg  Tea  and  Egg  Coffee  (very  fine).  Cranberry  Tea.  Apple 
Tea.  Egg  and  Milk.  Sago  Milk.  Tapioca  Milk.  Bread  and 
Milk.  Egg  Gruel.  Ground  Rice  Gi-uel.  Oatmeal  Gruel.  Sim- 
ple Barley  Water.  Compound  Barley  Water.  Cream  Tartar 
Beverage.  Seidlitz  Powders.  Blackberry  Syrup,  for  Cholera  and 
Summer  Complaint.     Remarks  on  the  Combinations  of  Cooking,  191 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

ON    MAKING-    BUTTER    AND    CHEESE. 

Articles  used  in  Making  Cheese.  Mode  of  Preparing  the  Rennet. 
To  Make  Cheese.  To  Scald  the  Curd.  Directions  for  making 
Butter,  -        -        -  2ai 


XU  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  XXII. 

ARTICLES    AND    CONVENIENCES    FOR    THE    SICK,  -  -    209 

CHAPTER  XXIII. 

THE    PROVIDING   AND    CARE    OF    FAMILY    STORES,        -  -    217 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

SUGGESTIONS    IN    REFERENCE    TO    PROVIDING    A    SUCCESSIVE 
VARIETY    OF    FOOD. 

Directions  for  Pres(;rving  Fruits  and  Vegetables,  _        -        _  22S 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

ON    BREAD    MAKING,  ._.---    227 

CHAPTER  XXVI. 

DIRECTIONS    FOR    DINNER    AND   EVENING    PARTIES. 

Setting  the  Table.     Taking  up  the  Dinner.     Tea  Parties  and  Even- 
ing Company,     ----------  234 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

ON    SETTING  TABLES,  AND    PREPARING    VARIOUS    ARTICLES 

OF    FOOD    FOR    THE    TABLE,  -  -  *  -  -    243 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

ON    SYSTEMATIC    FAMILY   ARRANGEMENT,  AND    MODE    OF    DOING 

WORK. 

Diroftions  for  the  Cook.     Directions  for  the  Chambermaid.     Odds 
and  Ends,  ------         """"  '^' 


CONTENTS.  XUl 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

ON    A    PROPER    SUPPLY    OF    UTENSILS    AND    CONVENIENCES    FOR 

HOUSEKEEPING. 

Kitchen  Furniture,         -->-----.  25? 


CHAPTER  XXX. 

SUGGESTIONS    IN    REGARD    TO    HIRED    SERVICE,  -  -   269 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 

ON    THE    STYLE    OF    LIVING    AND    EXPENSES,  -  -   273 

CHAPTER  XXXII. 

WORDS    OF    COMFORT   FOR  A  DISCOURAGED    HOUSEKEEPER,      276 

CHAPTER  XXXIII. 
FRIENDLY    COUNSELS    FOR    DOMESTICS,  -  -  -    280 

CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

MISCELLANEOUS    ADVICE,    AND    SUPPLEMENTARY    RECEIPTS. 

Weights  and  Measures.  Avoirdupois  Weight.  Apothecaries'  Weight. 
On  Purchasing  Wood.  Items  of  Advice.  To  make  nice  Crayons 
for  Blackboards.  Some  excellent  Cheap  Dishes.  Stewed  Beef 
Tomato  Beef  A  good  Way  to  use  Cold  Rice.  To  prepare  Good 
Toast.  A  Good  Pudding.  Loaf  Pudding.  A  Plain  Lemon  Pud- 
ding. An  Excellent  Indian  Pudding  without  Eggs.  Pork  and 
Potato  Balls.  Oyster  Pie.  Green  Corn  Patties  (like  Oysters). 
Ohio  Wedding  Cake  (Mrs.  K.).  Best  Way  of  making  Corn  Cakes 
of  all  Sorts,  Molasses  Candy.  To  make  Simple  Cerate.  Best 
Remedy  for  Burns.  Ginger  Tea.  Indian  Bannock.  Egg  and 
Bread.     Floating  Island.     A  New  Mode  of  cooking  Cucumbers,    283 

9  * 


THE 


DOMESTIC  RECEIPT  BOOK. 


CHAPTER  I. 

ON  SELECTING  FOOD  AND  DRINKS  WITH  REFERENCE  TO  HEALTH. 

A  WORK  has  recently  been  republished  in  this  country, 
enritledj  "^4  Treatise  on  Food  and  Diet ;  hy  Dr.  J. 
Pereira.  Edited  by  Dr.  Charles  A.  LeeP  "The 
author  of  this  work,"  says  Dr.  Lee,  '-is  well  known 
throughout  Europe  and  America,  as  one  of  the  most 
learned,  scientific,  and  practical  men  of  the  age  ; — a 
physician  of  great  experience  and  accurate  observation, 
and  a  liighiy  successful  writer.  To  the  medical  profes- 
sion he  is  most  favorably  known  as  the  author  of  the 
best  work  on  the  Materia  Medica  which  has  appeared 
in  our  language." 

This  work  contains  the  principles  discovered  by  Lei- 
big,  Dumas,  and  Brossingault,  and  applies  tliem  practi- 
cally to  the  subject  of  the  proper  selection  of  food.  All 
the  opinions,  expressed  in  what  follows,  are  sanctioned 
by  the  above  work,  by  Dr.  Combe,  and  by  most  of  the 
distinguished  practitioners  of  our  age  and  country. 

In  selecting  food,  with  reference  to  health,  the  follow- 
ing principles  must  be  borne  in  mind. 

First,  that  there  are  general  rules  in  regard  to  health- 
ful food  and  drink,  which  have  been  established,  not  by 
a  few,  but  by  thousands  and  thousands  of  experiments, 
through  many  ages,  and  in  an  immense  variety  of  cir- 
cumstances.    It  is  these  great  principles,  which  must 


2  ON    SELECTING    FOOD    AND    DRINKS 

be  the  main  dependance  of  every  mother  and  house- 
keeper, to  guide  her  in  selecting  healthful  food  and  drinks 
for  her  children  and  family.  These  rules  are  furnished 
by  medical  writers  and  practitioners. 

Secondly,  there  are  occasional  exceptions  to  these  gen- 
eral rules,  and  when  such  occur,  two  errors  should  be 
avoided.  One  is,  giving  up  all  confidence  in  the  deduc- 
tions of  a  wide  experience,  established  by  extensive  ex- 
periments, and  assuming  that  we  have  no  rules  at  all, 
and  that  every  person  must  follow  the  guidance  of  mere 
appetite,  or  his  own  limited  experience.  The  other  is, 
making  the  exception  into  a  general  rule,  and  maintain- 
ing that  every  person  must  conform  to  it. 

For  example,  it  is  found  by  general  experience,  that 
milk  is  a  very  safe  and  healthful  article  of  food,  and  that 
alcoholic  drinks  are  very  unhealthful.  But  there  are 
cases  which  seem  to  be  exceptions  to  this  rule  ;  for  some 
children  never  can  eat  milk  without  being  made  sick, 
and  there  are  cases  known  where  men  have  hved  to  a 
very  advanced  age  and  in  perfect  health,  who  have  daily 
used  alcoholic  drinks,  even  to  the  point  of  intoxication. 

Still,  it  is  very  unwise  to  throw  away  the  general  rule 
and  say,  that  it  is  just  as  well  for  children  to  drink  alco- 
holic drinks  as  to  use  milk, — and  as  unwise  to  claim 
that  every  person  must  give  up  the  use  of  milk  because 
a  few  are  injured  by  it. 

The  true  method  is,  to  take  the  general  rules  obtained 
by  abundant  experience  for  our  guide,  and  Avhen  any 
exceptions  are  found,  to  regard  them  as  exceptions^ 
which  do  not  vacate  the  general  rule,  nor  make  it  need- 
ful to  conform  all  other  cases  to  this  exception. 

It  will  be  the  object  of  what  follows,  to  point  out  the 
general  rules,  which  are  to  regulate  in  the  selection  of 
drinks  and  diet,  leaving  it  to  each  individual  to  ascer- 
tain, by  experiments,  what  are,  and  what  are  not  the  ex- 
ceptions. 

In  the  first  place,  then,  it  is  a  general  rule  that  man 
needs  a  variety  of  ahment,  so  that  it  is  unfavorable  to 
health  to  be  confined  to  only  one  kind  of  food. 

The  various  textures  of  the  human  body  are  com- 


WITH  REFERENCE  TO  HEALTH.  3 

posed  of  chemical  compounds,  which  differ  from  each 
other,  both  as  to  ingredients,  and  as  to  modes  of  combi- 
nation. It  is  true,  that  every  portion  of  the  body  may 
be  resolved  to  a  few  simple  elements,  of  Avhich  oxygen, 
hydrogen,  carbon,  and  nitrogen  are  the  chief.  But  tlie 
bodily  organs  have  not  the  power  of  forming  all  the  va- 
rious animal  tissues  from  these  simple  elements.  In- 
stead of  this,  they  must  be  introduced  into  the  body  in 
various  complex  and  different  combinations,  as  they  ex- 
ist in  the  forms  of  gluten,  fibrine,  albumen,  caseine,  and 
other  animal  and  vegetable  compounds. 

Thus  the  sugar,  starch,  and  oils,  found  in  certain 
kinds  of  food,  supply  the  carbon  which  sustain  the  com- 
bustion ever  carried  on  in  the  lungs  by  the  process  of 
breathing,  and  which  is  the  grand  source  of  animal  heat. 
On  the  contrary,  the  blood,  muscles,  skin,  cartilages, 
and  other  parts  of  the  body,  are  daily  nourished  and  re- 
newed, some  by  the  gluten  contained  in  wheat,  others 
by  the  alhiimen  of  eggs,  others  by  the  caseine  of  milk, 
and  others  by  the  jibri7ie  of  animals.  All  these  are 
found  in  a  great  variety  of  articles  used  as  food.  When 
received  into  the  stomach,  the  organs  of  digestion  and 
assimilation  prepare,  and  then  carry  them,  each  to  its 
own  appropriate  organ,  and  then  the  excreting  organs 
throw  off  the  surplus. 

In  order,  then,  to  have  every  portion  of  the  body  prop- 
erly developed,  it  is  necessary  to  take  such  a  variety  of 
food,  that  from  one  source  or  another,  ever}^  organ  of  the 
body  shall  be  sustained  by  its  appropriate  nourishment. 
The  experiments  which  prove  this,  have  been  conducted 
on  a  great  scale,  and  the  method  and  results  are  detailed 
in  the  work  of  Dr.  Pereira. 

This  fact  exhibits  one  cause  of  the  craving,  sometimes 
felt  for  certain  kinds  of  food,  which  usually  is  the  call 
of  nature  for  some  ingredient,  that  the  daily  round  of 
aliment  does  not  supply.  The  statistics  furnished  in  the 
work  of  Dr.  Pereira,  from  various  armies,  prisons,  alms- 
houses, and  asylums,  show,  that,  where  many  hundreds 
are  fed  on  the  same  diet,  the  general  health  of  the  mul- 
titude is  better  sustained  by  a  considerable  variety  and 


4  ON    SELECTING   TOOD   AND   DRINICS 

occasional  changes,  than  by  a  more  restricted  selection. 
Experiments  on  dogs  and  other  animals,  also,  have  been 
tried  on  a  large  scale,  which  prove  that  there  is  no  kind 
of  food,  which,  alone,  will  preserve  full  and  perfect  health  ; 
while  every  kind  (except  the  food  containing  gluten^ 
which  is  the  chief  ino^redient  of  wheat  and  other  bread- 
stuffs),  when  given  exclusively,  eventually  destroys  life. 
The  exclusive  use  of  wheat  bread  and  potatoes,  as  found 
by  experiment,  will  sustain  life  and  health  more  per- 
fectly, for  a  great  length  of  time,  than  any  other  kinds 
of  food. 

The  above  fact  is  a  striking  exhibition  of  the  benefi- 
cence of  Providence,  in  providing  such  an  immense  va- 
riety of  articles  of  food.  And  no  less  so  is  the  instinct 
of  appetite,  which  demands  not  only  a  variety,  but  is 
wearied  with  one  unchang'insr  round. 

Having  ascertained  that  it  is  needful  to  health,  that  a 
due  variety  of  food  should  be  secured,  we  next  proceed 
to  examine  the  principles  that  are  to  guide  us  in  the  se- 
lection. 

It  is  found  that  the  articles  used  for  food  and  drink 
may  be  arranged  in  the  following  classes : — 

First,  articles  that  furnish  no  other  stimulation  to  the 
animal  functions  than  is  secured  by  the  fresh  supply  of 
nutrition.  All  food  that  nourishes  the  body,  in  one 
sense,  may  be  called  stimulating,  inasmuch  as  it  imparts 
renewed  energies  to  the  various  bodily  functions.  In 
this  sense  even  bread  is  a  stimulant.  But  the  more  com- 
mon idea  attached  to  the  word  stimulant  is,  that  it  is  a 
principle  which  imparts  a  speed  and  energy  to  the  organs 
of  the  system  above  the  ordinary  point  secured  by  per- 
fect and  appropriate  nourishment.  The  first  class,  then, 
are  those  articles  that  serve  to  nourish  and  develop  per- 
fectly every  animal  function,  but  do  not  increase  the 
strength  and  speed  of  organic  action  above  the  point  of 
full  nourishment.  The  bread-stuffs,  vegetables,  fruits, 
sugar,  salt,  acid  drinks,  and  water  are  of  this  class. 

Secondly,  those  articles,  which  serve  to  nourish  per- 
fectly all  the  animal  system,  and  at  the  same  time  in- 
crease the  strength  and  speed  of  all  functional  action. 


WITH   REFERENCE    TO    HEALTH.  5 

All  animal  food  is  of  this  class.  All  physiologists  and 
medical  men  agree  in  the  fact,  that  the  pulse  and  all 
the  organs  of  the  body,  are  not  only  nourished,  but  are 
quickened  in  action  by  animal  food,  while  speed  and 
force  are  reduced  by  confining  the  diet  to  farinaceous, 
vegetable,  and  fruit  diet. 

Thirdly,  those  articles  which  impart  no  nourishment 
at  all  to  the  body,  but  act  solely  to  stimulate  all  the  or- 
gans to  preternatural  action.  Alcoholic  drinks,  condi- 
ments, and  aromatic  oils  are  of  this  description. 

Fourthly,  articles  that  are  neither  nourishing  nor  stim- 
ulating, but  pass  out  of  the  system  entirely  undigested 
and  unassimilated.  The  bran  of  coarse  bread  is  an  ex- 
ample. 

Fifthly,  articles  that,  either  from  their  nature  or  modes 
of  combination  and  cooking,  are  difficult  of  digestion, 
unhealthful,  and,  of  course,  tend  to  weaken  the  organic 
powers  by  excessive  or  unnatural  action.  Animal  oils, 
either  cooked  or  rancid,  and  many  articles  badly  cooked, 
are  of  this  kind. 

NOURISHING    AND    UNSTIMULATIN&    FOOD. 

The  following  presents  a  list  of  the  articles  which  are 
found  to  be  healthful  and  nourishing,  and  not  stimula- 
ting, except  as  they  supply  the  nourishment  needed  by 
the  various  bodily  functions. 

The  first  and  most  important  of  these  are  called  the 
farinaceous  substances.  Of  these,  wheat  stands  at  the 
head,  as  the  most  nutritive,  safe,  and  acceptable  diet  to 
all  classes  and  in  all  circumstances.  This  can  be  used 
in  the  form  of  bread,  every  day,  through  a  whole  fife, 
without  cloying  the  appetite,  and  to  an  extent  which 
can  be  said  of  no  other  food. 

Wheat  is  prepared  in  several  forms,  the  principal  of 
which  are  the  common  Fine  Wheat  Flour,  the  Unbolted, 
or  Graham  Flour,  and  Macaroni,  Vermicelli,  and  Cag- 
liari  Pastes.  The  last  are  flour  paste  prepared,  or  cut 
into  various  shapes  and  dried. 

Wheat  flour  is  made  into  bread  of  two  kinds,  the  fer- 

1* 


6  ON    SELECTING    FOOD   AND    DRINKS 

mented,  or  spongy  breads,  and  the  unfermented,  or  hard 
breads. 

The  spongy  breads  are  made  by  iismg  either  yeast, 
or  the  combination  of  an  acid  and  alkah.  In  yeast 
bread,  the  fermentation  of  the  particles  of  diffused  yeast 
evolve  carbonic  acid.  This  expands  the  flour  in  a  spongy 
form,  in  which  it  is  retained  by  the  tenacity  of  the  glu- 
ten of  the  flour,  until  baking  hardens  it.  Corn  meal 
and  some  other  bread-stuffs  cannot  be  raised  thus,  be- 
cause they  do  not  contain  gluten  sufficient  to  hold  the 
carbonic  acid  as  it  evolves. 

When  an  alkali  and  acid  are  used  to  raise  bread, 
their  combination  evolves  carbonic  acid  by  a  more  sud- 
den process  than  the  yeast  fermentation.  The  lightness 
produced  by  eggs  is  owing  to  their  adhesive  porosity 
when  beaten  and  mixed  with  flour  and  baked. 

Bread  is  also  made  of  rice,  rye,  Indian  meal,  and  bar- 
ley. These  varieties  of  bread-stuffs  are  useful  in  various 
ways.  In  cases  when  persons  are  troubled  with  loose- 
ness of  bowels,  rice  bread,  lice  gruel,  and  rice  water  for 
drink,  prevent  the  necessity  of  resorting  to  medicine. 
In  cases  where  the  opposite  difficulty  exists,  a  diet  of 
unbolted  wheat,  or  rye  mush  with  salt  and  molasses 
will  remedy  the  evil.  These  articles  also  can,  all  of 
them,  be  formed  into  a  great  variety  of  combinations 
that  are  at  once  healthful,  and  acceptable  to  the  palate. 

The  next  class  of  healthful  and  unstimulating  articles 
are  the  amylaceous^  or  starchy  articles  of  diet.  Of  these 
Sago,  Tapioca,  Arrow  Root,  and  the  Lichens,  are  those 
in  most  frequent  use.  These  are  nourishing  and  re- 
markably easy  of  digestion.  They  are  very  much  used 
for  invalids,  and  for  young  children  when  first  weaned. 

The  next  most  valuable  articles  of  food  are  the  vege- 
tables. Of  these  the  Potato  is  at  once  the  most  health- 
ful, and  most  universally  relished.  In  the  form  of 
Starch,  it  makes,  when  cooked,  a  hght  and  agreeable 
article  for  the  sick,  and  is  convenient  to  housekeepers  as 
forming  a  fine  minute  piiddiitg  to  meet  an  emergency. 

Of  the  great  variety  of  vegetables  that  are  furnished 
at  market,  or  from  our  gardens,  almost  all  are  palatable 


WITH    REFERENCE    TO    HEALTH.  7 

and  healthful  to  a  stomach  that  is  strong.  Peas,  Beans, 
Onions,  and  cooked  Cabbage  and  Turnips,  usually  are 
not  good  for  persons  whose  powers  of  digestion  have  been 
weakened. 

The  next  most  valuable  articles  of  food  are  the  Fruits. 
Almost  all  kinds  of  fruit,  vjJien  fully  7Hpe,  are  healthful 
to  those  who  are  not  suffering  from  weakness  of  diges- 
tion. Grapes,  Apples,  Peaches,  Strawberries,  Raspber- 
ries, and  Currants,  are  least  likely  to  prove  injurious. 
The  skins  and  seeds  of  all  fruits  consist  of  woody  matter, 
that  is  perfectly  undigestible,  and  should  never  be  taken 
in  large  quantities.  It  is  the  skins  and  seeds  of  the 
grape  that  make  raisins  so  often  injurious  to  young  chil- 
dren. If  the  skins  and  stones  can  be  removed,  nothing 
can  be  found  that  is  more  safe  and  healthful,  in  moder- 
ate quantities,  than  raisins  and  grapes. 

The  next  articles  of  healthful  unstimulating  food  are 
the  Saccharine  substances^  Sugar,  Molasses,  and  Honey. 
On  this  point,  Dr.  Pereira  remarks,  "  The  injurious  ef- 
fects which  have  been  ascribed  to  sugar  are  more  imagi- 
nary than  real.  The  fondness  of  children  for  saccharine 
substances  may  be  regarded  as  a  natural  instinct ;  since 
nature,  by  placing  it  in  the  mother's  milk,  evidently  in- 
tended it  to  form  a  part  of  their  nourishment.  Instead, 
therefore,  of  repressing  this  appetite  for  sugar,  it  ought 
rather  to  be  gratified  in  moderation.  The  popular  no- 
tion, of  its  having  a  tendency  to  injure  the  teeth,  is  to- 
tally unfounded.  During  the  sugar  season  of  the  West 
Indies,  every  negro  on  the  plantations,  every  animal,  and 
even  the  dogs,  grow  fat.  And  no  people  on  earth  have 
finer  teeth  than  the  negroes  of  Jamaica.  It  is  probable 
that  this  erroneous  notion  has  been  propagated  by  fru- 
gal housewives,  in  order  to  deter  children  from  indulging 
in  an  expensive  luxury.  Sugar  is  readily  digested  by  a 
healthy  stomach.  In  dyspeptics,  it  is  apt  to  give  rise  lo 
flatulence  and  acidity  of  stomach." 

These  remarks,  without  other  considerations,  may  lead 
to  erroneous  conclusions.  There  is  no  doubt  that  both 
children  and  adults  are  often  injured  by  the  use  of  sugar, 
but  it  is  not  because  it  is  unhealthful  in  its  nature,  but 


8  ON   SfiLECTING   FOOD   AWD    DRITTES 

because  it  is  used  in  excess  or  in  an  improper  manner. 
In  the  ''Domestic  Economy,"  pg.  105,  it  is  shown  that 
highly  concentrated  food  is  not  favorable  to  digestion, 
because  it  cannot  be  properly  acted  on  by  the  muscular 
contractions  of  the  stomach,  and  is  not  so  minutely  di- 
vided as  to  enable  the  gastric  juice  to  act  properly.  Now 
Sugar,  Candy,  and  the  "like,  are  higldy  concentrated 
nourishment,  and  should  not  be  used  except  when  mixed 
with  other  food.  The  reason,  then,  why  children  are 
injured  by  sugar  is,  that  they  eat  it  too  fiequently,  in  too 
large  quantities,  and  unmixed  with  other  ibod.  A  slick 
or  two  of  pure  candy,  eaten  with  crackers  or  bread,  never 
would  injure  any  healthy  child.  It  is  too  often  the  case, 
that  candies  are  mixed  with  unhealthful  coloring  mat- 
ter, or  with  nuts  and  other  oily  substances,  that  make 
them  injurious. 

The  next  article  of  healthful,  unstimulating  food,  is 
jellies  and  preserved  fruits.  As  it  has  been  shown 
that  uncooked  fruits  and  sugar  are  both  healthful,  it  may 
not  seem  surprising  that  jellies  and  fruits  cooked  in  su- 
gar, when  eaten  moderately,  with  bread  or  crackei*?,  are 
regarded  as  among  the  most  nourishing  and  healthful 
of  all  aliments.  When  they  prove  injurious,  it  is  owing 
either  to  the  fact  that  they  aie  taken  alone,  or  with  rich 
cream,  or  else  are  taken  in  too  great  quantities.  Eaten 
moderately,  as  a  part  of  a  meal,  they  are  safe  and  nour- 
ishing to  all,  except  persons  of  poor  digestion.  Healthful 
stomachs  need  not  be  governed  by  rules  demanded  by 
the  invalid,  which  has  too  often  been  attempted. 

The  preceding  presents  a  vast  variety  of  articles  suit- 
able for  food,  containing  in  abundance  all  the  principles 
demanded  for  the  perfect  development  of  all  the  animal 
functions,  and  which  physiologists  and  medical  men  uni- 
tedly allow  to  be  healthful.  These  can  be  combined  by 
the  cook  in  an  endless  variety  of  agreeable  dishes,  in- 
volving no  risk  to  a  healthful  stomach,  when  taken  in 
proper  quantities  and  in  a  proper  time  and  manner. 


WITH    REFERENCE    TO    HEALTH.  9 

NOURISHING    AND    STIMULATING   FOOD. 

The  second  general  division  of  food,  embraces  articles 
which  serve  perfectly  to  nourish  and  develop  every  an- 
imal organ,  but,  at  the  same  time,  increase  the  speed  and 
strength  of  all  functional  action  beyond  the  point  which 
is  attained  by  the  system,  when  fully  and  perfectly  nour- 
ished by  vegetables,  fruits,  and  bread-stutfs.  There  is 
no  dispute  among  physiologists  and  physicians  as  to  the 
fact,  that  animal  food  produces  chyle  which  is  more 
stimulating  to  the  various  organs,  than  that  which  is 
formed  from  an  exclusive  vegetable  diet.  The  only 
question  debated  is,  whether  this  increase  of  stinmlus 
is  favorable,  or  unfavorable  to  health  and  long  life. 

Those  who  maintain  that  it  is  unfavorable,  say,  that 
all  other  things  being  equal,  that  machine  must  wear 
out  the  soonest  which  works  the  fastest ;  that,  it  is 
proved,  both  by  analysis  and  by  facts,  that  a  vegeta- 
ble diet  contains  every  principle  needed  for  the  perfect 
development  of  the  whole  bodily  system,  as  much  so  as 
animal  food ;  and  that  the  only  difference  is  the  stimula- 
tion in  the  animal  food,  which  makes  the  system  work 
faster,  and  of  course,  wear  out  sooner. 

To  this  it  is  replied,  that  the  exact  point  of  stimula- 
tion, which  is  most  safe  and  healthful,  cannot  be  deter- 
mined, and  that  it  is  as  correct  to  assume,  that  to  be  the 
proper  medium,  which  is  secured  by  a  mixed  diet,  as  to 
assume  that  the  proper  point  is  that,  which  is  secured  by 
an  exclusive  vegetable  diet.  Moreover,  the  fact  that  the 
teeth  and  digestive  organs  of  man,  Avhich  seem  to  be 
fitted  both  for  vegetable  and  animal  food,  and  the  fact 
that  the  supplies  of  food  on  the  earth  make  it  needful 
to  adopt  sometimes  animal,  and  sometimes  vegetable  diet, 
and  sometimes  a  mixture  of  both,  furnish  an  a  priori 
argument  in  favor  of  a  mixed  diet. 

In  deciding  which  kinds  of  animal  food  are  most 
healthful,  several  particulars  are  to  be  regarded.  The 
flesh  of  young  animals  is  more  tender  than  that  of  the 
old  ones,  but  yet  they  usually  are  not  so  easily  digested. 
Beef,  and  Mutton,  and  Venison,  when  tender,  are  con- 


10  ON    SELECTING    FOOD   AND    DRINKS 

sidered  the  meats  which  are  most  easily  digested,  and 
best  for  weak  stomachs.  Yenison  is  more  stimulating" 
than  Beef  and  Mutton.  These  meats,  when  tough,  are 
not  so  easily  digested  as  when  tender. 

All  meats  are  made  more  tender  and  digestible  by 
hanging. 

Solid  meats,  properly  cooked,  are  more  easily  digested 
than  soups  and  broths.  For  it  is  found  that  these  hquids 
are  never  digested  till  the  water  is  absorbed,  leaving  a 
solid  mass  more  undigestible  than  was  the  sohd  meat. 
When  useful  to  invalids,  it  is  because  they  supply  the 
loss  of  the  withdrawn  fluids  of  the  body,  but  not  because 
more  easily  digested.  The  white  meats,  such  as  Chicken 
and  Veal,  are  best  for  invalids,  because  less  stimulating 
than  dark  meats. 

Liver  contains  so  much  oil  that  it  is  not  good  for  inva- 
lids or  dyspeptics. 

The  digestibility  and  healthful ness  of  meat  depends 
very  much  upon  the  mode  of  cooking.  Boiled  meats  are 
most  easily  digested,  when  properly  boiled.  Roasting, 
broiling,  and  baking,  are  healthful  modes  of  cooking,  but 
frying  is  a  very  pernicious  mode  of  preparing  meats, 
the  reason  of  which  will  be  explained  hereafter. 

Though  there  is  a  disagreement  of  opinion  among 
practitioners  and  physiologists,  as  to  the  propriety  of 
using  any  animal  food,  they  are  all  agreed  in  regard  to 
certain  general  principles  that  should  regulate  its  use. 
They  are  as  follows  : — Less  animal  food  should  be  used 
in  warm  climates  than  in  cold,  and  less,  also,  in  summer 
than  in  winter.  The  reason  of  this  is,  that  heat  is  stim- 
ulating to  the  system,  and  as  meat  diet  is  also  stimula- 
ting, when  heat  increases,  meat,  as  a  diet,  should  de- 
crease, or  fevers  may  ensue. 

Another  principle  is,  that  the  proportions  of  meat  diet 
should  depend  somewhat  on  the  constitution  and  circum- 
stances. When  a  person  is  of  full  habit,  or  inclined  to 
inflammatory  attacks  of  any  kind,  the  proportion  of  ani- 
mal food  should  be  much  less  than  in  other  cases. 

On  the  contrary,  when  there  is  a  state  of  the  system 


WITH    REFERENCE    TO    HEALTH.  11 

that  demands  gentle  stimulus,  an  increase  of  meat  diet 
is  sometimes  useful. 

Persons  subject  to  cutaneous  eruptions  are  sometimes 
entirely  cured  by  long  abstinence  from  animal  food,  and 
all  kinds  of  oily  substances. 

FOOD    THAT    STIMULATES    WITHOUT   NOURISHING. 

The  ardcles  which  come  under  this  head,  are  usually 
called  the  condiments.  In  regard  to  these.  Dr.  Pereira 
remarks, — 

"  The  relish  for  flavoring,  or  seasoning  ingredients, 
manifested  by  almost  every  person,  would  lead  us  to  sup- 
pose that  these  substances  serve  some  useful  purpose 
beyond  that  of  merely  gratifying  the  palate.  At  pres- 
ent, however,  we  have  no  evidence  that  they  do.  They 
stimulate,  but  do  not  seem  to  nourish.  The  volatile 
oil  they  contain  is  absorbed,  and  then  thrown  out  of  the 
system,  still  possessing  its  characteristic  odor." 

The  articles  used  for  food  of  this  kind,  are  the  sioeet 
Jierhs  employed  for  seasoning,  such  as  Thyme,  Summer 
Savory,  and  the  hke,  and  the  spices^  such  as  Cloves,  Cin- 
namon, Nutmeg,  Pepper,  and  Ginger.  Mustard,  Horse- 
radish, Water  Cresses,  Garlic,  and  Onions,  contain  these 
stimulating  oils,  combined  with  some  nourishing  food. 

"  Condiments,"  says  Dr.  Beaumont,  "  particularly 
those  of  a  spicy  kind,  are  non-essential  to  the  process  of 
digestion  in  a  healthy  state  of  the  system.  They  afford 
no  nutrition.  Though  they  may  assist  the  action  of  a 
debilitate  stomach  for  a  time,  their  continual  use  never 
fails  to  produce  an  indirect  debiUty  of  that  organ.  They 
affect  it  as  alcohol  and  other  stimulants  do — the  present 
relief  afforded  is  at  the  expense  of  future  suffering. 
Salt  and  Vinegar  are  exceptions  when  used  in  modera- 
tion. They  both  assist  in  digestion.  Vinegar  by  rendering 
muscular  fibre  more  tender,  and  both  together,  by  pro- 
ducing a  fluid  having  some  analogy  to  the  gastric  juice.'' 

FOOD    THAT    IS    ENTIRELY   UN  DIGESTIBLE. 

There  is  no  kind  of  food  used  which  consists  exclu- 
sively of  indigestible  matter.     But  it  often  is  the  case, 


It  ON   SELECTING   FOOD   AND   DRINKS 

that  a  certain  amount  of  indigestible  matter  is  mixed 
with  nourishing  food,  and  serves,  by  its  mechanical  aid, 
to  promote  the  healthful  action  of  the  stomach  and 
bowels.  This  is  the  reason  why  unbolted  flour  is  deemed 
more  healthful  than  fine  flour,  and  is  consequently  pre- 
ferred for  dyspeptics.  But  where  there  is  too  great  a 
quantity  of  such  indigestible  matter,  or  where  it  is  not 
properly  combined  with  digestible  food,  it  proves  inju- 
rious and  often  dangerous.  This  is  the  case  when  the 
skins  and  seeds  of  fruits  are  sw^allowed,  which  always 
pass  off  entirely  undigested. 

FOOD    THAT    IS     UNHEALTHFUL     IN     NATURE,    OR    MADE    SO    BY 

COOKING. 

The  most  injurious  food,  of  any  in  common  use,  is  the 
animal  oils,  and  articles  cooked  with  them.  On  this 
subject,  Dr.  Pereira  remarks : — "  Fixed  oil,  or  fat,  is 
more  diflnicult  of  digestion,  and  more  obnoxious  to  the 
stomach,  than  any  other  alimentary  principle.  Indeed, 
in  concealed  forms,  I  believe  it  will  be  found  to  be  the 
offending  ingredient  in  nine-tenths  of  the  dishes  which 
disturb  weak  stomachs.  Many  dyspeptics  who  avoid 
fat  meat,  butter,  and  oil,  unwittingly  eat  it  in  some  con- 
cealed form.  Liver,  the  yolk  of  eggs,  and  brains,  such 
individuals  should  eschew,  as  they  abound  in  oily  mat- 
ter." 

"  The  influence  of  heat  on  fatty  substances  effects 
chemical  changes,  whereby  they  are  rendered  more  dif- 
ficult of  digestion,  and  more  obnoxious  to  the  stomach. 
Hence  those  culinary  operations  in  which  fat  or  oil  is 
subjected  to  high  temperatures,  are  objectionable." 

''  Fixed  oils  give  off,  while  boiling,  carbonic  acid,  an 
inflammable  vapor,  and  an  acrid  oil,  called  Acroleon,  while 
the  fatty  acids  of  the  oil  are,  in  part,  set  free.  It  has 
always  appeared  to  me  that  cooked  butter  proves  more 
obnoxious  to  the  stomach  than  cooked  Olive  oil.  Tliis 
I  ascribe  to  the  facility  with  which,  under  the  influence 
of  heat,  the  acrid,  volatile  acids  of  butter  are  set  free. 
The  fat  of  salt  pork  and  bacon  is  less  injurious  to  some 


WITH    REFERENCE    TO    HEALTH.  IS 

dyspeptics  than  fresh  animal  fats.     This  must  depend 
on  some  change  effected  by  curing." 

"In  many  dyspeptics,  fat  does  not  become  properly 
chymified.  It  floats  on  the  stomacli  in  the  form  of  an 
oily  pelUcle,  becoming  odorous,  and  sometimes  highly 
rancid,  and  in  this  state  excites  heartburn,  disagreeable 
nausea,  eructations,  and  sometimes  vomiting.  It  ap- 
pears to  me,  that  the  greater  tendency  which  some  oily 
substances  have  than  others  to  disturb  the  stornach,  de- 
pends on  the  greater  facility  with  which  they  evolve 
volatile,  fatty  acids,  which  are  for  the  most  part  exceed- 
ingly acrid  and  irritating.  The  distressing  feelings  ex- 
cited in  many  dyspeptics  by  mutton  fat,  butter,  and  fish 
oils,  are,  in  this  way,  readily  accounted  for.  Butter  con- 
tains no  less  than  three  volatile,  fatty  acids,  namely — ■ 
the  butyric,  capric,  and  caproic.  Fats,  by  exposure  to 
the  air,  become  rancid,  and  in  this  state  are  exceedingly 
obnoxious  to  the  digestive  organs.  Their  injurious 
qualities  depend  on  the  presence  of  volatile  acids,  and  in 
part  also  on  non-acid  substances." 

These  statements  show  the  reasons  why  the  fried 
food  of  all  kinds  is  injurious.  Fat  is  an  unhealthful  ali- 
ment, and  when  heated  becomes  still  more  so.  This 
mode  of  cooking,  then,  should  be  given  up  by  every 
housekeeper,  who  intends  to  take  all  reasonable  means 
of  preserving  the  health  of  her  family.  There  are  an 
abundance  of  other  modes  of  preparing  food,  without  re- 
sorting to  one  which  involves  danger,  especially  to  chil- 
dren and  invalids,  whose  powers  of  digestion  are  feeble. 

The  most  common  modes  of  preparing  unhealthful 
food,  is  by  frying  food,  and  by  furnishing  bread  that  is 
heavy,  or  sour,  or  so  neicly  baked,  as  to  become  clammy 
and  indigestible  when  chewed.  Though  there  are  many 
stomachs  that  can  for  a  long  time  take  such  food  with- 
out trouble,  it  always  is  injurious  to  weak  stomachs,  and 
often  renders  a  healthful  stomach  a  weak  one.  A 
housekeeper  that  will  always  keep  a  supplj?^  of  sweet, 
light  bread  on  her  table,  and  avoid  oily  dishes,  oily  cook- 
ing, and  condiments,  will  double  the  chances  of  good 
health  for  her  family. 

2 


14  ON    SELECTING    FOOD    AND    DRINKS 

Minuteness  of  division  is  a  great  aid  to  easy  digestion. 
For  this  reason  food  should  be  well  chewed  before  swal- 
lowing, not  only  to  divide  it  minutely,  but  to  mix  it  with 
the  saliva,  which  aids  in  digestion. 

The  cooking  of  food,  in  most  cases,  does  not  alter  its 
nature ;  it  only  renders  it  more  tender,  and  thus  more 
easily  divided  and  digested. 

When  a  person  is  feverish  and  loathes  food,  it  should 
never  be  given,  as  the  stomach  has  not  sufficient  gastric 
juice  to  secure  its  digestion.  The  practice  of  tempting 
the  sick  by  favorite  articles,  should  therefore  be  avoided. 

LIQUID   ALIMENTS,    OR    DRINKS. 

"  TFa^er,"  says  Dr.  Pereira,  "  is  probably  the  natural 
drink  of  all  adults.  It  serves  several  important  purposes 
in  the  animal  economy : — firstly,  it  repairs  the  loss  of  the 
aqueous  part  of  the  blood,  caused  by  evaporation,  and 
the  action  of  the  secreting  and  exhaling  organs  ;  second- 
1}^,  it  is  a  solvent  of  various  alimentary  substances,  and, 
therefore,  assists  the  stomach  in  digestion,  though,  if 
taken  in  very  large  quantities,  it  may  have  an  opposite 
effect,  by  diluting  the  gastric  juice;  thirdly,  it  is  a  nutri- 
tive agent,  that  is,  it  assists  in  the  foimation  of  the  solid 
parts  of  the  body." 

The  health  of  communities  and  of  individuals  is  often 
afTected  by  the  nature  of  the  water  used  for  drink,  and 
it  is  therefore  important  to  know  how  to  secure  pure  and 
good  water. 

Rain  water  is  the  purest  of  all  water,  purer  than  the 
best  spring  water.  Of  course  every  person  who  fears 
that  the  water  used  is  the  cause  of  any  evil,  can  obtain 
that  which  is  known  to  be  pure  and  good.  The  cheap- 
est mode  of  obtaining  good  rain  water,  is  to  have  a  large 
cistern  dug  in  the  vicinity  of  some  large  building,  with 
conducting  spouts.  This  can  be  lined  with  water  lime, 
and  the  water  thus  obtained,  when  cooled  with  ice,  is  as 
pure  as  any  that  can  be  found. 

A  distinguished  medical  writer,  Dr.  Cheyne,  remark- 
ing on  the  effects  of  foreign  substances  in  water,  states 
these  facts : — 


WITH  REFERENCE  TO  HEALTH.  15 

"  At  the  Nottingham  Assizes,  July,  1836,  it  was 
proved  on  trial,  at  which  I  was  a  witness,  that  dysen- 
tery, in  an  aggravated  form,  was  caused  in  cattle  by  the 
use  of  water  contaminated  with  putrescent  vegetable 
matter,  produced  by  the  refuse  of  a  starch  manufactory. 
The  fish  were  destroyed,  and  all  the  animals  that  drank 
of  this  water  became  seriously  ill,  and  many  died.  It 
was  shown,  also,  that  the  mortahty  was  in  proportion  to 
the  quantity  of  starch  made  at  different  times,  and  that 
when  the  putrescent  matter  (of  the  manufactory)  was 
not  allowed  to  pass  to  the  brook,  the  fish  and  frogs  re- 
turned, and  the  mortahty  ceased  among  the  cattle." 

Dr.  Barry,  an  English  physician,  states,  that  when 
the  troops  at  Cork  w^ere  supphed  with  water  from  the 
river  Lee,  w^hich,  in  passing  through  the  city,  is  rendered 
unfit  for  drinking  by  the  influx  from  sewers,  Mr.  Bell 
suspected  that  a  dysentery,  prevaiUng  at  the  time,  arose 
from  this  cause.  Upon  assuming  the  care  of  the  troops, 
he  had  a  number  of  water  carts  to  bring  water  from  a 
spring,  and  did  not  allow  the  use  of  river  w^ater,  and  very 
shortly  the  dysentery  disappeared. 

Sir  James  McGregor  states,  that,  at  one  time  in  the 
Spanish  war,  when  during  three  months  20,000  dead 
bodies  w^ere  interred  at  Ciudad  Rodrigo,  all  those  exposed 
to  emanations  from  the  soil,  and  who  were  obliged  to 
use  water  from  sunken  w^ells,  w^ere  affected  by  low  ma- 
lignant fevers,  or  dysenteries. 

This  shows  that  burying  in  large  towns  affects  the 
health  of  the  inhabitants,  first  by  emanations  from  the 
soil,  and  secondly  by  poisoning  the  water  percolating 
through  that  soil. 

Many  such  facts  as  these,  show  the  importance  of 
keeping  wells  and  cisterns  from  the  drainings  of  sinks, 
barn-yards,  and  from  decayed  dead  animals.  And  it  i^ 
probable  that  much  sickness  in  families  and  communi- 
ties has  been  caused  by  neglecting  to  preserve  the  water 
pure,  that  is  used  for  drink  and  cooking. 

Water  is  sometimes  rendered  un healthful  by  being 
conducted  through  lead  pipes,  or  kept  in  lead  reservoirs, 
or  vessels.     It   is  found  that  the  purer  the  water,  the 


16  ON    SELECTING    FOOD   AND   DRINKS 

more  easily  it  is  affected  by  the  lead  through  which  it 
passes.  When  the  water  has  certain  neutral  salts  in  it, 
they  are  deposited  on  the  surface  of  the  lead,  and  thus 
protect  from  its  poisonous  influence.  Immersing  a  very 
bright  piece  of  lead  for  some  hours  in  water,  will  show 
whether  it  is  safe  to  use  lead  in  conducting  the  water. 
If  the  lead  is  tarnished,  it  proves  that  the  water  exerts  a 
solvent  power,  and  that  it  is  unsafe  to  employ  lead  in 
carrying  the  water. 

The  continued  use  of  water  containing  lead,  gives 
rise  to  the  lead  cholic^  or  paintefs  cholic,  and  if  the 
water  is  still  drank,  palsy  succeeds.  One  indication  of 
this  disease  is  a  narrow  leaden  blue  line  on  the  edge  of 
the  gums  of  the  front  teeth. 

The  following  are  methods  to  be  employed  in  purify- 
ing water  : — 

The  most  thorough  and  effectual  way  of  obtaining 
perfectly  pure  water,  from  that  which  is  noxious,  is,  to 
distill  it,  collecting  only  the  steam. 

In  cases  where  water  is  injured  by  the  presence  of 
animal  or  vegetable  matter,  boiling  sometimes  removes 
much  of  the  evil. 

Two  grains  of  powdered  alum  to  every  quart  of 
water,  will  often  serve  to  remove  many  impurities. 

Filtering  through  fine  sand  and  powdered  charcoal, 
removes  all  animal  and  vegetable  substances  Avhich  are 
not  held  in  chemical  solution. 

Sea  water  serves  both  as  a  cathartic  and  emetic,  and 
the  only  mode  of  obtaining  pure  water  from  it  is  by  dis- 
tillation. 

The  impure  water  used  often  at  sea,  is  owing  wholly 
to  the  casks  in  which  it  is  carried.  When  new,  the 
water  imbibes  vegetable  ingredients  from  the  cask,  which 
become  putrid.  Water,  if  carried  to  sea  in  iron  casks,  if 
good  and  pure,  always  continues  so.  Cistern  water  is 
often  impure,  when  held  in  new  wooden  cisterns,  owing 
to  vegetable  matter  absorbed  by  the  water. 

Dr.  Lee  remarks,  "  We  are  satisfied  that  impure 
water  is  more  frequently  the  cause  of  disease  than  is 
generally  supposed.     It  has  been  thought  that  decaying 


WITS  REFERENCE  TO  HEALTH.  17 

vegetable  matter,  received  into  the  stomach,  was  innox- 
ious, owing  to  the  antiseptic  properties  of  the  gastric 
juice.  But  tliis  opinion  is  evidently  erroneous.  An 
immense  number  of  facts  could  be  adduced,  to  show  that 
this  is  the  frequent  cause  of  disease.  The  British  army 
'  Medical  Reports,'  and  our  own  Medical  Journals,  con- 
tain many  facts  of  a  similar  kind.  The  fever  which 
carried  off  so  many  of  the  United  States  Dragoons,  on  a 
visit  to  the  Pawnees,  was  occasioned  chiefly  by  drink- 
ing stagnant  water,  filled  with  animal  and  vegetable 
matter.  We  know  that  calculus  diseases  are  most 
frequent  in  countries  that  abound  in  lime  water." 

OTHER    LIQUID   ALIMENTS,    OR    DRINKS. 

The  Other  drinks  in  most  common  use  are  arranged 
thus, — 

1.  The  Mucilaginous^  Farinaceous^  or  Saccharine 
drinks. 

These  are  water  chie%,  with  substances  slightly  nu- 
tritive, softening,  and  soothing.  Toast  water.  Sugar 
luater,  Rice  water ^  Barley  water ^  and  the  various 
Gruels^  are  of  this  kind. 

2.  The  Aromatic  and  Astringent  drinks. 

These  include  Tea,  Coffee,  Chicory,  Chocolate,  and 
Cocoa. 

The  following  remarks  on  these  drinks  are  taken 
from  the  work  of  Dr.  Pereira. 

^  ''  The  peculiar  flavor  of  tea  depends  upon  the  vola- 
tile oil,  which  has  the  taste  and  smell  of  tea.  Alone,  it 
acts  as  a  narcotic,  but  when  combined  (as  in  tea)  with 
tannin,  it  acts  as  a  diuretic  and  diaphoretic  (i.  e.  to 
promote  the  flow  of  urine  and  perspiration).  Its  astrin- 
gency,  proved  by  its  chemical  properties,  depends  upon 
the  presence  of  tannin.  Of  this  quality  we  may  bene- 
ficially avail  ourselves  in  some  cases  of  poisoning,  as  by 
poisonous  mushrooms,  by  opium,  or  laudanum." 

"  The  peculiar  influence  of  tea,  especially  the  green 
variety,  over  the  nervous  system,  depends  upon  the  veg- 
etable oil  referred  to.     The  influence  is  analogous  to 

9* 


18  ON   SELECTING   FOOD   AND   DRINKS 

that  of  foxglove ;  for  both  green  tea  and  foxglove  oc- 
casion watchfulness,  and  act  as  sedatives  on  the  heart 
and  bloodvessels.  Strong  green  tea  produces,  on  some 
constitutions,  usually  those  popularly  known  as  nervous, 
very  severe  effects.  It  gives  rise  to  tremor,  anxiety, 
sleeplessness,  and  most  distressing  feelings." 

"  As  a  diluent  and  sedative,  tea  is  well  adapted  to  fe- 
brile and  inflammatory  disorders.  To  its  sedative  influ- 
ence should  be  ascribed  the  relief  of  headache  sometimes 
experienced." 

On  this  subject,  Dr.  Lee  remarks,  ''  Green  tea  un- 
doubtedly possesses  very  active  medicinal  properties ;  for 
a  very  strong  decoction  of  it,  or  the  extract,  speedily  de- 
stroys life  in  the  inferior  animals,  even  when  given  in 
very  small  doses.  The  strongly  marked  eflfects  of  tea 
upon  persons  of  a  highly  nervous  temperament,  in  caus- 
ing wakefulness,  tremors,  palpitations,  and  other  distress- 
ing feelings,  prove,  also,  that  it  is  an  agent  of  considera- 
ble power.  It  not  unfrequently  occasions  vertigo,  and 
sick  headache,  together  with  a  sinking  sensation  at  the 
pit  of  the  stomach,  shortly  after  eating.  It  is  also  op- 
posed to  active  nutrition,  and  should,  therefore,  be  used 
with  great  moderation  by  those  who  are  thin  in  flesh. 
From  its  astringent  properties  it  often  is  useful  in  a  re- 
laxed state  of  bowels." 

"  We  are  satisfied  that  green  tea  does  not,  in  any 
case,  form  a  salubrious  beverage  to  people  in  health,  and 
should  give  place  to  milk,  milk  and  water,  black  tea, 
miUi  and  sugar,  which,  when  taken  tepid,  form  very 
agreeable  and  healthy  drinks." 

Coffee.  ''  The  infusion,  or  decoction  of  coffee,  forms 
a  well  known  favorite  beverage.  Like  tea,  it  dimin- 
ishes the  disposition  to  sleep,  and  hence  it  is  often  re- 
sorted to  by  those  wdio  desire  nocturnal  study.  It  may 
also  be  used  to  counteract  the  stupor  induced  by  opium, 
alcoholic  drinks,  and  other  narcotics.  In  some  constitu- 
tions it  acts  as  a  mild  laxative,  yet  it  is  usually  described 
as  producing  constipation.  The  immoderate  use  of 
coffee  produces  various  nervous  diseases,  such  as  anx- 


V7ITH    REFERENCE    TO    HEALTH.  19 

iety,  tremor,  disordered  vision,  palpitation,  and  feverish- 
ness." 

Chicory,  or  Succory.  This  is  the  roasted  root  of  the 
Wild  Endive,  or  Wild  Succory.  It  is  prepared  like  cof- 
fee, and  some  prefer  its  flavor  to  that  of  coffee. 

Chocolate.  This  is  prepared  by  roasting  the  seeds 
of  the  Cacoa,  or  Cocoa,  tlien  grinding  them  and  forming 
them  into  cakes.  "  Chocolate,  though  devoid  of  the 
disagreeable  qualities  of  tea  and  coffee,  Avhich  disturb 
the  nervous  functions,  yet  is  difficult  of  digestion,  on 
account  of  the  large  quantity  of  oil  which  it  contains, 
and  is,  therefore,  very  apt  to  disturb  the  stomach  of 
dyspeptics." 

Cocoa.  This  is  made  of  the  nuts  and  husks  of  the 
cocoa,  roasted  and  ground,  and  is  somewhat  less  oily 
than  chocolate,  and  being  rather  astringent,  is  adapted 
to  looseness  of  the  bowels.  The  shells  alone  are  often 
used  to  make  a  drink,  which  is  less  rich  than  the  Cocoa, 
and  especially  adapted  to  weak  digestive  powers. 

The  seeds  of  the  vegetable  called  Ochra,  roasted  and 
prepared  like  coffee,  are  said  to  equal  it  in  flavor. 

3.  Acidulous  Drinks. 

"  The  employment  of  vegetable  acid^  as  an  aliment, 
is  necessary  to  health.  It  seems  pretty  clearly  estab- 
lished, that  complete  and  prolonged  abstinence  from 
succulent  vegetables,  or  fruits,  or  their  preserved  juices, 
as  articles  of  food,  is  a  cause  of  scurvy." 

"  Water,  sharpened  with  vegetable  acids,  oftentimes 
proves  a  most  refreshing  beverage,  allaying  thirst,  and 
moderating  excessive  heat.  Various  acids  form  cooling, 
refreshing,  and  antiscorbutic  drinks,  and  are  well  adapted 
for  hot  seasons,  and  for  febrile  and  inflammatory  cases." 

These  drinks  are  prepared  by  dissolving  vegetable 
acids  or  acidulous  salts  in  water,  sweetening  and  flavor- 
ing it.  Also,  by  decoctions  of  acid  fruits,  which  promote 
secretions  in  the  alimentary  canal,  and  act  as  laxa- 
tives. 

The  carbonated  or  effervescinsr  drinks  belonsr  to  this 
class.  They  owe  their  sparkHng  briskness  to  carbonic 
acid  gas  confined  in  the  liquid. 


20  ON    SELECTING   FOOD   AN©   DRINKS 

4.  Drinks  containing  Gelatine  and  Osniazonie. 
Gelatine  is  that  part  of  animal  and  vegetable  matter 

that  forms  jelly. 

Osmazome  is  that  principle  in  meats  which  impart 
their  flavor. 

Beef  Tea,  Mutton,  Veal,  and  Chicken  Broths  are  the 
principal  drinks  of  this  description,  and  usually  are  pre- 
pared for  invalids. 

5.  Emulsive^  or  Milky  Drinks. 

Aui??ial  milk  is  the  principal  drink  of  this  class,  and 
as  this  is  the  aliment  of  a  large  portion  of  young  chil- 
dren, the  necessity  of  guarding  against  abuses  connected 
with  the  supplies  furnished  should  be  generally  known. 

A  great  portion  of  the  milk  furnished  in  New  York 
and  other  large  cities,  is  obtained  from  cows  fed  on  dis- 
tillery slops,  and  crowded  in  filthy  pens,  without  regard 
to  ventilation  or  cleanliness.  Thus  deprived  of  pure  air 
and  exercise,  and  fed  with  unhealthy  food,  their  milk 
becomes  diseased,  and  is  the  cause  of  extensive  mortality 
among  young  children.  Many  cows,  also,  are  fed  on 
decayed  vegetables,  and  the  sour  and  putrid  offals  of 
kitchens,  and  these,  also,  become  thus  diseased. 

A  work  on  this  subject,  by  R.  M.  Hartly,  Esq.,  of  New 
York,  has  been  published,  which  contains  these  facts. 
Of  five  hundred  dairies  near  New  York  and  Brooklyn, 
all,  except  five  or  six,  feed  their  cows  on  distillery  slops. 
And  the  reason  is,  that  it  yields  more  milk  at  a  cheaper 
rate  than  any  other  food.  But  it  soon  destroys  the  health 
of  the  animals,  and  after  most  of  their  fluids  are,  by  this 
process,  changed  to  unhealthy  milk,  and  the  cows  be- 
come diseased,  they  are  sent  to  a  cattle  market  and  a 
new  supply  obtained. 

The  physicians  in  New  York,  in  a  body,  have  testi- 
fied to  the  unhealthiness  of  this  practice,  but  as  yet  no 
inspectors  have  been  secured  to  preserve  the  public  from 
this  danger,  \yhile  the  great  mass  of  the  people  are  igno- 
rant or  negligent  on  the  subject.  Chemists  have  ana- 
lyzed this  unhealthful  milk,  and  find  that,  while  pure 
milk  is  alkaline,  slop  milk  is  acid,  and  also  contains  less 
than   half  the   nourishment   contained   in   pure  milk. 


WITH   REFERENCE    TO    HEALTH.  21 

Scarcel}''  any  cream  rises  on  slop  milk,  and  what  does 
coliect  can  never  be  turned  into  butter;  but,  by  churn- 
ing, only  changes  to  froth.  We  have  inspectors  of  flour, 
meat,  fish,  and  most  other  food,  and  every  town  and 
city  supplied  by  milk  carts  ouglit  to  have  inspectors  of 
milk  ;  and  where  this  is  not  done,  every  mistress  of  a 
family  should  narrowly  watch  her  supplies  of  milk,  and 
ascertain  the  mode  in  which  the  cows  are  fed. 

In  cases  where  children,  or  adults,  find  that  milk 
troubles  the  stomach,  it  is  often  owing  to  its  richness, 
and  water  should  then  be  mixed  with  it.  Infants  2:en- 
erally  require  diluted  milk,  a  little  sweetened,  as  cow's 
milk  is,  when  good,  considerably  richer  than  mother's 
milk.  The  fact  that  oil  is  placed  among  the  articles 
most  difficult  to  digest,  shows  the  mistake  of  many,  who 
give  diluted  cream  instead  of  milk,  supposing  it"  to  be 
better  for  infants.  In  all  ordinary  cases,  where  an  in- 
fant is  deprived  of  the  mother's  nourishment,  the  milk 
of  a  jiew  milch  cow,  diluted  with  one-third,  or  one-fourth 
water,  and  sweetened  a  little  with  white  sugar,  is  the 
safest  substitute.  Sometimes  oat-meal  gruel,  or  arrow- 
root, are  found  to  agree  better  with  the  child's  peculiar 
constitution. 

6.  Alcoholic  Drinks. 

Beer,  Wine,  Cider,  and  Distilled  Liquors,  are  the  chief 
of  the  alcoholic  drinks. 

"  To  persons  in  health,"  says  Dr.  Pereira,  in  his 
"Elements  of  Materia  Medica,"  "the  dietical  employ- 
ment of  wine  is  either  useless  or  pernicious."  Dr.  Beau- 
mont, in  his  celebrated  experiments  on  St.  Martin,* 
found  that  wines,  as  well  as  distilled  spirits,  invariably 
interfered  with  the  regularity  and  completeness  of  diges- 
tion, and  always  produced  morbid  changes  in  the  mu- 
cous membrane  of  the  stomach.  And  this,  too,  was  the 
case  when  neither  unpleasant  feelings  nor  diminished 
appetite  indicated  such  an  effect. 

*  This  case  of  St.  Martin's  referred  to.  was  that  of  u  soldier,  who  by 
a  gun  shot,  had  an  opening  made  into  his  stomach,  which  healed  i;p, 
leaving  so  large  an  orifice,  that  all  the  process  of  digestion  could  be  ex- 
amined, after  he  was  restored  to  perfect  health. 


22  ON    SELECTING   FOOD    AND   DRINKS 

Dr.  Bell,  of  Philadelphia,  remarks  thus :  "  The  re- 
corded experience  of  men  in  all  situations  and  climates, 
under  all  kinds  of  labor  and  exposure,  prove  that  absti- 
nence from  alcoholic  drinks  gives  increased  ability  to  go 
through  the  labors  of  the  farm  and  the  workshop,  to  re- 
sist heat  and  cold,  to  encounter  hardships  on  sea  and 
land,  beyond  what  has  ever  been  done  under  the  unnat- 
ural excitement  of  alcohol,  followed,  as  it  is,  by  depression 
and  debility,  if  not  by  fever  and  disease.  The  observa- 
tion and  testimony  of  naval  and  military  surgeons  and 
commanders  are  adverse  to  the  issue  of  alcoholic  drinks 
to  men  in  the  army  and  navy." 

The  reports  from  all  our  chief  state  prisons  also  prove 
that  intemperate  men  can  be  instantly  deprived  of  all 
alcoholic  drinks,  not  only  without  danger,  but  with  an 
immediate  improvement  of  the  health. 

Wine  is  often  useful  as  a  medicine,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  a  physician,  but  its  stimulating,  alcoholic  princi- 
ple, makes  it  an  improper  agent  to  be  drank  in  health. 
The  same  is  true  of  cider  and  strong  beer.  Some  wine, 
beer,  and  cider  drinkers  do,  by  the  force  of  a  good  con- 
stitution, live  to  a  good  old  age,  and  so  do  some  persons, 
also,  who  live  in  districts  infected  by  a  malaria,  which 
destroys  the  health  and  life  of  thousands.  But  these 
exceftions  do  not  prove  that  either  wine,  or  malaria  are 
favorable  to  health,  or  long  life.  They  are  only  excep- 
tions to  a  general  rule. 

Meantime,  the  general  rule  is  established  by  an  in- 
credible amount  of  experience  and  testimony,  that  alco- 
holic drinks,  in  no  cases,  are  needed  by  those  in  health, 
and  that  the  indulgence  in  drinking  them  awakens  a 
gnawing  thirst  and  longing  for  them,  that  leads  the  vast 
majority  of  those  Vvdio  use  them,  to  disease,  debility,  pov- 
erty, folly,  crime,  and  death. 


In  this  detail  of  the  various  drinks  that  may  be  used 
by  man,  we  find  that  pure  water  is  always  satisfying, 
safe,  and  sufficient.  We  find  that  acid  and  effervescing 
drinks,  so  acceptable  in  hot  weather,  are  also  demanded 


WITH  REFERENCE  TO  HEALTH.  23 

by  the  system,  and  are  safe  and  healthful.  We  find 
that  milk  and  broths  are  also  healthful  and  nourishing. 

Black  tea,  also,  when  taken  weak  and  not  above 
blood  heat,  is  a  perfectly  safe  and  agreeable  warm  drink 

Chocolate  and  cocoa  are  nourishing  and  safe  to  \je(- 
sons  who  can  bear  the  oil  they  contain  ;  and  shelL  are 
perfectly  healthful  and  safe  to  all. 

In  the  vast  variety  of  drinks  provided  for  man,  we 
find  very  few  that  are  not  safe  and  healthful.  Green 
tea  and  coffee,  as  ordinarily  used,  are  very  injuuous  to 
very  many  constitutions.  They  contain  but  very  little 
nourishment,  except  what  is  added  by  the  milk  and  su- 
gar, and  training  a  family  of  children  to  love  them  (for 
no  child  loves  them  till  trained  to  do  it)  is  making  it 
probable  that  all  of  them  will  be  less  healthful  and  com- 
fortable, and  certain  that  some  will  be  great  sufferers. 
Training  children  to  drink  tea  and  coffee  is  as  unreason- 
able and  unchristian,  as  training  them  to  drink  foxglove 
and  opium  would  be — the  only  difference  is,  that  in  one 
case  it  is  customary,  and  the  other  it  is  not ;  and  custom 
makes  a  practice  appear  less  foolish  and  sinful. 

There  is  no  need,  at  this  period  of  the  world,  to  point 
out  the  wickedness  and  folly  of  training  children  to  love 
alcoholic  drinks. 

In  regard  to  the  use  of  green  tea  and  coffee,  one  sug- 
gestion will  be  offered.  These  are  drinks  which  contain 
very  little  nourishment,  and  their  effect  is  to  stimulate 
the  nervous  system  without  nourishing  it.  The)^  are, 
also,  usually  drank  hot,  and  heat  also  is  a  stimulant  to 
the  nerves  of  the  mouth,  teeth,  tbroat,  and  stomach,  in- 
ducing consequent  reacting  debility.  For  it  is  the  un- 
varying law  of  the  nervous  system,  that  the  reacting 
debility  is  always  in  exact  proportion  to  the  degree  of 
stimulation. 

It  is  in  vain  to  expect  that  the  great  multitudes,  who 
have  been  accustomed,  from  childhood,  to  drink  hot  tea 
and  coffee,  once,  twice,  and  sometimes  thrice  a  day,  will 
give  up  such  a  favorite  practice.  But  it  is  hoped  that 
some  may  be  induced  to  modify  their  course,  by  redu- 
cing the  strengt]^  and  the  heat  of  their  daily  potations. 


24  ON   SELECTING   FOOD   AND   DSINKS 

It  will  be  found  by  housekeepers  that,  if  once  a  month 
the  daily  quantity  of  tea,  or  coffee  is  slightly  reduced, 
the  taste  will  imperceptibly  accommodate ;  and  that,  in 
the  course  of  six  or  eight  months,  the  habits  of  a  family, 
by  these  shght  monthly  variations,  may  be  changed  so 
as  that,  eventually,  they  will  love  weak  tea  and  cotiee  as 
much  as  they  once  loved  the  strong. 

Young  housekeepers,  who  are  just  beginning  to  rear 
a  family  of  children,  will  perhaps  permit  one  plea  for  the 
young  beings,  whose  fate  in  life  so  much  depends  on 
their  physical  training.  It  is  the  weak  and  delicate  chil- 
dren who  are  the  sufferers,  where  the  habits  of  a  family 
lead  them  to  love  stimulating  drinks.  The  strong  and 
healthy  children  may  escape  unharmed,  the  whole  evil 
falls  on  those,  who  are  least  able  to  bear  it.  Oh  mother, 
save  the  weak  lambs  of  your  fold  !  Save  them  fiom 
those  untold  agonies  that  result  from  rasped  and  debili- 
tated nerves,  worn  out  by  unhealthful  stimulus  !  And 
set  before  your  household  the  Divine  injunction — "  We, 
then,  that  are  strong  ought  to  bear  the  infirmities  of  the 
weak,  and  not  to  please  ourselves." 

In  regard  to  the  selection  of  food,  a  housekeeper  can 
have  small  excuse  for  ever  risking  the  health  of  lier  fam- 
ily by  providing  unhealthy  food,  or  cooking  it  in  an  un- 
healthful  manner.  Innumerable  dishes,  and  enough  to 
furnish  a  new  variety  for  every  day  of  the  year,  can  be 
made  of  food  that  is  safe  and  healthful,  and  cooked  in  a 
healthful  manner. 

Avoid  condiments,  fats,  and  food  cooked  in  fats, 
and  always  provide  light  and  siveet  yeast  bread, 
is  ihe  rule  which  shuts  out  almost  everything  that  is 
pernicious  to  health,  and  leaves  an  immense  variety  from 
which  to  select  what  is  both  healthful  and  grateful  to 
the  palate. 

There  are  some  directions  in  regard  to  times  and  man- 
ner of  taking  food,  that  are  given  more  at  large,  with  the 
reasons  for  tliem,  in  the  "  Domestic  Economy,"  but 
which  will  briefly  be  referred  to,  because  so  important. 

Eating  too  fast  is  unhealthful,  because  the  food  is  not 
properly  mastii^ated,  or  mixed  with  the  galiva,  nor  has 


WITH  REFERENCE  TO  HEALTH.  25 

the  stomach  sufficient  time  to  perform  its  office  on  the 
last  portion  swallowed  before  another  enters. 

Eating  too  often  is  unhealthful,  because  it  is  weaken- 
ing and  injurious  to  mix  fresh  food  with  that  which  is 
partly  digested,  and  because  the  stomach  needs  rest  af- 
ter the  labor  of  digesting  a  meal.  In  grown  persons 
four  or  five  hours  should  intervene  between  each  meal. 
Children,  who  are  growing  fast,  need  a  luncheon  of  sim- 
ple bread  between  meals. 

Eating  too  much  is  unhealthful,  because  the  stomach 
can  properly  digest  only  that  amount  which  is  needed 
to  nourish  the  system.  The  rest  is  thrown  off  undi- 
gested, or  crowded  into  parts  of  the  system  where  it  is 
injurious. 

Eating  food  when  too  hot  is  injurious,  as  weakening  the 
nerves  of  the  teeth  and  stomach  by  the  stimulus  of  heat. 

Eating  highly  seasoned  food  is  unhealthful,  because 
it  stimulates  too  much,  provokes  the  appetite  too  much, 
and  often  is  indigestible. 

Badly  cooked  food  is  unhealthful,  because  it  is  indi- 
gestible, and  in  other  ways  injurious. 

Excessive  fatigue  weakens  the  power  of  digestion, 
and  in  such  cases,  a  meal  should  be  delayed  till  a  little 
rest  is  gained. 

Bathing  should  never  follow  a  meal,  as  it  withdraws 
the  blood  and  nervous  vigor  demanded  for  digestion, 
from  the  stomach  to  the  skin. 

Violent  exercise  should  not  follow  a  full  meal,  as 
that  also  withdraws  the  blood  and  nervous  energies  from 
the  stomach  to  the  muscles. 

Water,  and  other  drinks,  should  never  be  taken  in 
large  quantities,  either  with,  or  immediately  after  a  meal, 
as  they  dilute  the  gastric  juice,  and  tend  to  prevent  per- 
fect digestion.  But  it  is  proper  to  drink  a  moderate 
quantity  of  hquid  while  eating. 

YV^here  there  is  a  strong  constitution  and  much  exer- 
cise in  the  open  air,  children  and  adults  may  sometimes 
violate  these  and  all  other  laws  of  health,  and  yet  remain 
strong  and  w^ell. 

But  all,  and  especially  those,  who  have  delicate  con- 

3 


26 


MARKETING — CARE   AND   USES    OF   MEATS. 


stitutions,  and  are  deprived  of  fresh  air  and  exercise, 
will  have  health  and  strength  increased  and  prolonged 
by  attending  to  these  rules. 


CHAPTER  II. 

MARKETING CARE    AND   USES    OF    MEATS. 

Beef. 

'.  Fig.  1. 


1.  Cheek.     2.  Neck.     3.  Chuck  Rib,  or  Shoulder  having  four  Ribs. 

4.  Front  of  the  Shoulder,  or  Shoulder  Clod,  sometimes  called  Brisket. 

5.  Back  of  the  Shoulder.  6.  Fore  Shin,  or  Leg.  7,  7.  Plate  pieces  ;  the 
front  one  is  the  Brisket,  and  the  back  one  is  the  Flank,  and  is  divided 
again  into  the  Thick  Flank,  or  Upper  Sirloin,  and  the  Lower  Flank. 
8.  Standing  Ribs,  divided  into  First,  Second,  and  Third  Cuts.  The  First 
Cut  is  next  to  the  Sirloin,  and  is  the  best.  9.  Sirloin.  10.  Sirloin  Steak. 
11.  Rump,  or  Etch  Bone.  12.  Round,  or  Buttock.  13.  Leg,  or  Hind 
Shank. 

Veal. 

Fig.  2. 


1.  Head  and  Pluck.  2.  Rack  and  Neck.  3.  Shoulder. 
Shank,  or  Knuckle.  5.  Breast.  6.  Loin.  7.  Fillet,  or  Leg. 
Shank,  or  Knuckle. 


4.  Fore 
8.  Hind 


MARKETING CARE    AND    USES    OF    MEATS.  27 

Mutton. 

Fig.  3. 


1.  Shoulder.     2,  2.  Neck,  or  Rack.    3.  Loin.    4.  Leg.     5.  Breast 

A  Chine  is  two  Loins. 

A  Saddle  of  Mutton  is  two  Legs  and  two  Loins. 


1.  Leg.  2.  Hind  Loin.  3.  Fore  Loin.  4.  Spare  Rib.  5.  Hand. 
6.  Spring. 

A  Lamb  is  divided  into  two  fore  quarters  and  two  hind  quarters. 

Venison.  In  this  country  nothing  is  used  but  the  hind  quarter.  Two 
legs  and  two  loins  are  called  a  Saddle. 

SELECTION   AND   USES    OF    MEATS. 

In  selecting  beef,  the  best  parts  are  cut  from  the  thick 
portion,  from  the  shoulder  to  the  rump,  and  these  are 
the  most  expensive  parts,  including  sirloin,  sirloin  steaks, 
and  first,  second,  and  third  cuts  of  the  fore  quarter. 
The  best  steaks  are  made  by  sawing  up  these  pieces. 
Steaks  from  the  round  or  buttock  are  tougher  and  not 
so  sweet  as  steaks  from  rib  pieces.  The  best  steaks  are 
from  the  sirloin  and  sirloin  steak.  Steaks  that  have 
large  bits  of  bone  should  be  cheaper,  as  the  bone  is  so 


28  MARKETING CARE   AND   USES    OF    MEATS. 

much  loss.  A  roasting  piece  cut  close  to  the  fore  shoul- 
der is  always  tough  and  poor.  Tough  steaks  must  be 
pounded  with  a  steak  hammer. 

MODES    OF    COOKING   AND    USING   THE    DIFFERENT    PARTS    OF 

ANIMALS. 

Beef. 

The  Sirloin  is  to  be  roasted,  and  it  is  considered  the 
best  piece  for  steaks.  The  piece  next  forward  of  the  Sir- 
loin is  about  as  good  as  any  for  roasting. 

The  Rump  is  to  be  corned,  or  cooked  a  la  mode. 

The  Round  is  used  for  corning,  or  a  la  mode. 

The  Edge  or  Etch  Bone  is  corned,  or  for  soup. 

The  Hock  or  Shin  is  used  for  soups. 

The  Rib  pieces  of  the  fore  quarter  are  used  as  roast- 
ing pieces.  The  first  cut,  which  is  next  the  Sirloin,  is 
the  best,  and  the  others  are  better  for  corning. 

The  Head  is  used  for  mince  pies,  and  the  Tongue 
for  smoking.     The  Legs  are  used  for  soups. 

.The  remaining  pieces  are  used  for  salting  down,  stews. 
soups,  and  mince  pies,  according  to  various  tastes. 

The  Talloiu  is  to  be  tried  up  for  candles. 

Veal. 

The  Loin  is  used  for  roasting. 

The  Fillet  (which  is  the  leg  and  hind  flank)  is  used 
for  cutlets,  or  to  stuff  and  boil,  or  to  stuff  and  roast. 

The  Chumj)  end^  of  the  loin  is  used  for  roasting. 

The  Knuckles  are  used  for  brotlis. 

The  Neck  is  used  for  stews,  pot  pies,  and  broths,  as 
are  most  of  the  remaining  pieces. 

Many  persons  roast  the  fore  quarter,  which  is  divided 
into  two  pieces,  called  the  brisket,  or  breast,  and  the  rack. 

Mutton. 

The  Leg  is  boiled,  or  stuffed  and  roasted. 
The  Loin  is  roasted. 
The  rest  are  for  boiling,  or  corning. 
The  Loin  is  chopped  into  pieces  for  broiling,  called 
Mutton  Chop^. 


MARKETING CARE    AND   USES    OF    MEATS.  29 

The  Leg  is  often  cut  into  slices  and  broiled. 
Many  cure  and  smoke  the  leg,  and  call  it  smoked 
venison. 

Pork. 

The  Shoulder  and  Ham  are  used  for  smoking. 

The  Spare  Rib  is  used  for  roasting,  and  often  is  used 
as  including  all  the  ribs. 

The  Shoulder  sometimes  is  corned  and  boiled. 

That  which  is  to  be  salted  down  must  have  all  the 
lean  taken  out,  which  is  to  be  used  for  sausages,  or 
broiling. 

The  Feet  use  for  jelly,  head  cheese,  and  souse. 

MARKETING. 

In  selecting  Fish,  take  those  that  are  firm  and  thick, 
having  stiff  fins  and  bright  scales,  the  gills  bright  red, 
and  the  eyes  full  and  prominent.  When  Fish  are  long 
out  of  water  they  grow  soft,  the  fins  bend  easily,  the 
scales  are  dim,  the  gills  grow  dark,  and  the  eyes  sink 
and  shrink  away.  Be  sure  and  have  them  dressed  im- 
mediately, sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  use  them,  if  pos- 
sible, the  same  day.  In  warm  weather  put  them  in  ice, 
or  corning,  for  the  next  day.  Shell  Fish  can  be  decided 
upon  only  by  the  smell.  Lobsters  are  not  good  unless 
alive,  or  else  boiled  before  offered  for  sale.  They  are 
black  Avhen  aUve,  and  red  when  boiled.  When  to  be 
boiled,  they  are  to  be  put  alive  into  boiling  water,  which 
is  the  quickest  and  least  cruel  way  to  end  life. 

In  selecting  Beef^  take  that  which  has  a  coarse,  loose 
grain,  which  easily  yields  to  the  pressure  of  finger, 
or  knife  ;  which  is  a  purplish  red,  and  has  whitish  fat. 
Ox  Beef  is  best.  If  the  lean  is  purplish  and  the  fat  very 
yellow,  it  is  bad  Beef.  If  it  is  coarse-grained  and  hard 
to  break  or  cut,  it  is  tough.  Stall-fed  has  lighter  fat 
than  grass-fed  Beef 

If  meat  is  frozen,  lay  it  in  cold  water  to  thaw.  A 
piece  of  ten  pounds,  or  more,  will  require  all  night  to 
thaw.  Beef  and  Mutton  improve  by  keeping.  Meat  is 
better  for  not  being  frozen,  except  fresh  Pork. 

3* 


so  MARKETING CARE    AND    USES    OF    MEATS. 

In  selecting  Veal^  take  that  which  is  firm  and  dry, 
and  the  joints  stiff,  having  the  lean  a  dehcate  red,  the 
kidney  covered  with  fat,  and  the  fat  very  white.  If  you 
buy  the  head,  see  that  the  eyes  are  plump  and  lively, 
and  not  dull  and  sunk  in  the  head.  If  you  buy  the 
legs,  get  those  which  are  not  skinned,  as  the  skin  is 
good  for  jelly,  or  soup. 

In  choosing  Mutton^  take  that  which  is  bright  red 
and  close  grain,  with  firm  and  white  fat.  The  meat 
should  feel  tender  and  springy  on  pressure.  Notice  the 
vein  in  the  neck  of  the  fore  quarter,  which  should  be  a 
fine  blue. 

In  selecting  Pork,  if  young,  the  lean  can  easily  be 
broken  when  pinched,  and  the  skin  can  be  indented  by 
nipping  with  tlie  fingers.  The  fat  also  will  be  w4iite 
and  soft.      Thin  rind  is  best. 

In  selecting  Hants,  run  a  knife  along  the  bone,  and 
if  it  comes  out  clean,  the  ham  is  good,  but  if  it  comes 
out  smeared,  it  is  spoilt.  Good  Bacon  has  white  fat  and 
the  lean  adheres  closely  to  the  bone.  If  the  Bacon  has 
j^ellow  streaks,  it  is  rusty,  and  not  fit  to  use. 

In  selecting  Poultry,  choose  those  that  are  full  grown, 
but  not  old.  When  young  and  fresh  killed,  the  skin  is 
thin  and  tender,  the  joints  not  very  stiff",  arid  the  eyes 
full  and  bright.  The  breast  bone  shows  the  age,  as  it 
easily  yields  to  pressure  if  young,  and  is  tough  when 
old.  If  young,  you  can  with  a  pin  easily  tear  the  skin. 
A  goose,  when  old,  has  red  and  hairy  legs,  but  when 
young,  they  are  yellow  and  have  few  hairs.  The  pin- 
feathers  are  the  roots  of  feathers,  which  break  oflf  and 
remain  in  the  skin,  and  always  indicate  a  young  bird. 
When  very  neatly  dressed  they  are  all  pulled  out. 

Poultry  and  birds  ought  to  be  killed  by  having  the 
neck  cut  off*,  and  then  hung  up  by  the  legs  to  bleeJ 
freely.     This  makes  the  flesh  white  and  more  healthfu. 

ON    THE    CARE    OF    MEATS. 

Beef  and  Mutton  are  improved  by  keeping  as  long  as 
they  remain  sweet.     If  meat  begins  to  taint,  wash  it 


MARKETING CARE    AND    USES    OE    MEATS.  31 

and  rub  it  with  powdered  charcoal  and  it  removes  the 
taint.     Sometimes  rubbing  with  salt  will  cure  it. 

Corn-fed  Pork  is  best.  Pork  made  by  still-house  slops 
is  almost  poisonous,  and  hogs  that  live  on  offal  never 
furnish  healthful  food. 

Measely  Pork  has  kernels  in  it,  and  is  unhealthful. 

A  thick  skin  shows  that  the  Pork  is  old,  and  that  it 
requires  more  time  to  boil. 

If  your  Pork  is  very  salt,  soak  it  some  hours. 

Take  all  the  kernels  out,  that  you  will  find  in  the 
round,  and  thick  end  of  the  flank  of  Beef,  and  in  the  fat, 
and  fill  the  holes  with  salt.     This  will  preserve  it  longer. 

Salt  your  meat,  in  summer,  as  soon  as  you  receive  it. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  salt  rubbed  into  twenty-five 
pounds  of  Beef,  will  corn  it  so  as  to  last  several  days,  in 
ordinary  warm  weather. 

Do  not  let  Pork  freeze,  if  you  intend  to  salt  it. 

Too  much  saltpetre  spoils  Beef. 

In  winter,  meat  is  kept  finely,  if  well  packed  in  snow, 
without  salting. 

Directions  for  cutting  tip  a  Hog", 

Spht  the  Hog  through  the  spine,  take  off  each  half  of 
the  head  behind  the  ear,  then  take  off  a  piece  front  of 
the  shoulder  and  next  the  head,  say  four  or  five  pounds, 
for  sausages. 

Then  take  out  the  leaf,  which  lies  around  the  kid- 
neys, for  lard. 

Then,  with  a  knife,  cut  out  the  whole  mass  of  the 
lean  meat,  except  what  belongs  to  the  shoulder  and  the 
ham. 

Then  take  off  the  ham  and  the  shoulder.  Then  take 
out  all  the  fat  to  be  used  for  lard,  which  is  the  loose 
piece,  directly  in  front  of  the  ham. 

Next  cut  off  a  narrow  strip  from  the  spring,  or  belly, 
for  sausage  meat.  Cut  up  the  remainder,  wiiich  is  clear 
Pork,  for  salting,  in  four  or  five  strips  of  nearly  equal 
width.  Take  off  the  cheek,  or  jowl,  of  the  head  for 
smoking  with  the  ham  ;  and  use  the  upper  part  for  boil- 
ing, baking,  or  head  cheese. 


32  MARKETING CARE   AND   USES   OF   MEATS. 

The  feet  are  boiled  and  then  fried,  or  used  for  jelly. 
It  is  most  economical  to  try  up  the  thin  flabby  pieces  for 
lard  to  cook  with. 

The  leaf  fat  try  by  itself,  for  the  nicest  cooking. 

Clean  all  the  intestines  of  the  fat  for  lard.  That 
which  does  not  readily  separate  from  the  larger  intes- 
tines use  for  soap  grease. 

Of  the  insides,  the  hver,  heart,  sweet-breads,  and  kid- 
neys, are  sometimes  used  for  broiling  or  frying.  The 
smaller  intestines  are  used  for  sausage  cases. 

In  salting  down,  leave  out  the  bloody  and  lean  por- 
tions, and  use  them  for  sausages. 

To  try  out  Lard. 

Take  what  is  called  the  leaves  and  take  off  all  the 
{5kin,  cut  it  into  pieces  an  inch  square,  put  it  into  a  clean 
pot  over  a  slow  fire,  and  try  it  till  the  scraps  look  a  red- 
dish brown,  taking  great  care  not  to  let  it  burn,  which 
would  spoil  the  whole.  Then  strain  it  through  a  strong 
cloth,  into  a  stone  pot,  and  set  it  away  for  use. 

Take  the  fat  to  which  the  smaller  intestines  are  at- 
tached (not  the  large  ones),  and  the  flabby  pieces  of  pork 
not  fit  for  salting,  try  these  in  the  same  way,  and  set 
the  fat  thus  obtained  where  it  will  freeze,  and  by  spring 
the  strong  taste  will  be  gone,  and  then  it  can  be  used 
for  frying. 

Directions  for  salting  down  Pork. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  barrel  with  salt  an  inch  deep. 
Put  down  one  layer  of  Pork  and  cover  that  with  salt, 
half  an  inch  thick.  Continue  thus  till  the  barrel  is  full. 
Then  pour  in  as  much  strong  pickle  as  the  barrel  will 
receive.  Always  see  that  the  Pork  does  not  rise  above 
the  brine.  When  a  white  scum,  or  bloody-looking  mat- 
ter rises  on  the  top,  scald  the  brine  and  add  more  salt. 

Leave  out  bloody  and  lean  pieces  for  sausages. 

The  Pork  ought  to  be  packed  as  tight  as  possible,  and 
always  kept  under  the  brine.     Some  use  a  stone  for 


MARKETING CARE    AND    USES    OF    MEATS.  33 

this  purpose.  In  salting  down  a  new  supply,  take  the 
old  brine,  boil  it  down  and  remove  all  the  scum,  and  then 
use  it  to  pour  over  the  Pork. 


Mr.  H.  H.^s  Receipt  for  Curing  Hmns. 

Take  an  ounce  of  saltpetre  for  each  ham,  and  one 
pint  of  molasses  to  every  pound  of  saltpetre. 

Then  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  common  salt  for 
every  pint  of  molasses  used. 

Heat  the  mixture  till  it  nearly  boils,  and  smear  the 
meat  side  with  it,  keeping  the  mixture  hot  and  rubbing 
it  in  v/ell,  especially  around  the  bones  and  recesses. 

Let  the  hams  lie  after  this  from  four  to  seven  days, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  hams. 

Then  place  them  in  a  salt  pickle,  sjrong  enough  to 
bear  an  egg^  for  three  weeks.  Then  soak  eight  hours 
in  fresh  water. 

Then  hang  in  the  kitchen,  or  other  more  convenient 
place,  to  dry  for  a  fortnight.  Then  smoke  from  three 
to  five  days,  or  till  well  smoked. 

Then  wrap  them  up  in  strong  tar  paper,  tying  it  close. 

Then  tie  them  tight  in  bags  of  coarse  unbleached  cot- 
ton, stuffing  in  shavings,  so  that  no  part  of  the  paper 
touches  the  cotton.  Hang  them  near  the  roof  in  a  gar- 
ret, and  they  will  never  give  you  any  trouble. 

To  prepare  Cases  for  Sausages. 

Empty  the  cases,  taking  care  not  to  tear  them.  Wash 
them  thoroughly,  and  cut  into  lengths  of  tw^o  yards  each. 
Then  take  a  candle  rod,  and  fastening  one  end  of  a  case 
to  the  top  of  it,  turn  the  case  inside  outward.  When 
all  are  turned,  wash  very  thoroughly  and  scrape  them 
with  a  scraper  made  for  the  purpose,  keeping  them  in 
warm  water  till  ready  to  scrape.  Throw  them  into  salt 
and  water  to  soak  till  used.  It  is  a  very  difficult  job  to 
scrape  them  clean  without  tearing  them.  "When  fin- 
ished they  look  transparent  and  very  thin. 


34  MARKETING CARE    AND   USES    OF    MEATS. 

Sausage  Meat. 

Take  one-third  fat  and  two-thirds  lean  pork  and  chop 
them,  and  then  to  every  twelve  pounds  of  meat,  add 
twelve  large  even  spoonfuls  of  pounded  salt,  nine  of 
sifted  sage,  and  six  of  sifted  black  pepper.  Some  like  a 
little  summer  savory.  Keep  them  in  a  cool  and  dry 
place. 

Bologna  Sausages. 

Take  equal  portions  of  veal,  pork,  and  ham,  chop 
them  fine,  season  with  sweet  herbs  and  pepper,  put  them 
in  cases,  boil  them  till  tender,  and  then  dry  them. 

Another  Receipt  for  Sausage  Meat. 

To  twenty-five  pounds  of  chopped  meat,  which  should 
be  one-third  fat  and  two- thirds  lean,  put  twenty  spoon- 
fuls of  sage,  twenty-five  of  salt,  ten  of  pepper,  and  four  of 
summer  savory. 

Pickle  for  Beef  Pork^  To7igues,  or  Hung  Beef 

Mix,  in  four  gallons  of  water,  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
sugar  or  molasses,  and  of  saltpetre  two  ounces.  If  it  is 
to  last  a  month  or  two,  put  in  six  pounds  of  salt ;  if  you 
wish  to  keep  it  over  the  summer,  use  nine  pounds  of  salt. 
Boil  all  together  gently,  and  skim,  and  then  let  it  cool. 

Put  the  meat  in  the  vessel  in  which  it  is  to  stand, 
pour  the  pickle  on  the  meat  till  it  is  covered,  and  keep 
it  for  family  use. 

Once  in  two  months  boil  and  skim  the  pickle,  and 
throw  in  two  ounces  of  sugar  and  half  a  pound  of  salt. 

When  tongues  and  hung  beef  are  taken  out,  wash 
and  dry  the  pieces,  put  them  in  paper  bags  and  hang  in 
a  dry,  warm  place.  In  very  hot  weather,  rub  the  meat 
well  with  salt  before  it  is  put  in  the  pickle,  and  let  it  lie 
three  hours  for  the  bloody  portion  to  run  out.  Too  much 
saltpetre  is  injurious. 

Another  hy  measure^  and  ivith  less  trouble. 

For  every  gallon  of  cold  water,  use  a  quart  of  rock 
salt,  a  tablespoon  heaping  full  of  saltpetre,  six  heaping  ta- 


MARKETING CARE    AND    USES    OF    MEATS.  35 

blespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar,  and  two  quarts  of  blown  salt. 
No  boiling  is  needed ;  keep  it  as  long  as  there  is  salt  un- 
dissolved at  the  bottom.  When  scum  rises  scald  it,  and 
add  more  sugar,  salt,  and  saltpetre.  Keep  weights  on 
the  meat  to  keep  it  under. 

In  very  hot  weather  fresh  meat  will  often  spoil  if  it  is 
put  in  cold  pickle.  At  such  times  put  the  meat  into  hot 
pickle  and  boil  it  for  twenty  minutes,  and  the  meat  will 
keep  a  month  or  more.  If  you  save  the  pickle,  add  a 
httle  more  salt  to  it. 

To  salt  down  Beef  to  keep  the  year  round. 

To  one  hundred  pounds  of  beef,  take  four  quarts  of 
rock  salt  pounded  very  fine,  four  ounces  of  saltpetre 
made  very  fine,  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  all  well 
mixed. 

Scatter  some  over  the  bottom  of  the  barrel,  lay  down 
one  layer,  and  over  that  scatter  the  proportion  of  salt  be- 
longing to  such  a  portion  of  the  meat,  allowing  rather 
the  most  to  the  top  layers.  Pack  all  down  very  close, 
and  if  any  scum  should  rise,  sprinkle  a  pint  or  more  of 
salt  over  the  top. 

To  Cleanse  Calfs  Head  and  Feet. 

Wash  clean,  and  sprinkle  pounded  rosin  over  the  hair, 
dip  in  boiling  water  and  take  out  immediately,  and  then 
scrape  them  clean.  Then  soak  them  in  water  four  days, 
changing  the  water  every  day. 

To  Prepare  Rennet. 

Take  the  stomach  of  a  new-killed  calf,  and  do  not 
wash  it,  as  it  weakens  the  gastric  juice.  Hang  it  in  a 
cool  and  dry  place  five  days  or  so,  then  turn  the  inside 
out  and  slip  off  the  curds  with  the  hand.  Then  fill  it 
with  salt,  with  a  little  saltpetre  mixed  in,  and  lay  it  in  a 
stone  pot,  pouring  on  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  and  sprin- 
kling on  a  handful  of  salt.  Cover  it  closely  and  keep 
for  use. 


36  BOILED   MEATS. 

After  six  weeks,  take  a  piece  four  inches  square  and 
put  it  in  a  bottle  with  five  gills  of  cold  water  and  two 
gills  of  rose  brandy,  stop  it  close,  and  shake  it  when  you 
use  it.     A  tablespoonful  is  enough  for  a  quart  of  milk. 


CHAPTER    III. 

BOILED   MEATS. 


In  boiling  meats  it  is  important  to  keep  the  water 
constantly  boiling,  otherwise  the  meat  will  soak  up  the 
Avater. 

If  it  is  necessary  to  add  more  water,  be  careful  that  it 
be  boiling  water. 

Be  careful  to  remove  the  scu^n,  especially  when  it 
first  begins  to  boil,  and  a  little  salt  thrown  in  aids  in 
raising  the  scum. 

Put  the  meat  into  cold  water,  let  it  heat  very  gradu- 
ally forty  minutes  or  so,  and  reckon  the  time  of  boiling 
from  the  time  it  commences  boiling.  Allow  about 
twenty/  minutes  for  boiling  for  each  pound  of  fresh 
meat,  and  ttoenty-four  for  salt  meats. 

Do  not  let  the  meat  remain  long,  after  it  is  done,  as  it  in- 
jures it.  Put  a  plate  in  the  bottom  to  prevent  the  part 
that  touches  from  cooking  too  much. 

Be  sure  not  to  let  the  fire  get  hot,  so  as  to  make  a 
hard  boiling,  especially  at  first.  The  more  gently  meat 
boils  the  more  tender  it  is,  and  the  more  perfectly  the 
savory  portion  is  developed  and  retained.  If  the  meat 
is  fat,  skim  it  and  save  the  fat  for  other  purposes. 

Put  salt  into  the  water  about  in  the  proportion  of  a 
great  spoonful  to  a  gallon. 

To  cook  a  Ham  {very  fine). 

Boil  a  common-sized  ham  four  or  five  hours,  then 
skin  the  whole  and  fit  it  for  the  table  ;  then  set  it  in  an 
oven  for  half  an  hour,  then  cover  it  thickly  with  pound- 


BOILED    MEATS.  37 

ed  rusk  or  bread  crumbs,  and  set  it  back  for  half  an 
hour. 

Boiled  ham  is  always  improved  by  setting  it  into  an 
oven  for  near  an  hour,  till  much  of  the  fat  fries  out,  and 
this  also  makes  it  more  tender.  Save  the  fat  for  frying 
meat. 

Smoked  Boiled  Tongues. 

Soak  them  in  cold  water  all  night,  then  wash  them 
and  boil  for  four  or  five  hours,  according  to  the  size. 
When  cooked,  take  off  the  skin  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

A  la  Mode  Beef. 

Take  a  round  of  beef,  cut  it  full  of  holes  entirely 
through  it,  roll  strips  of  raw  salt  pork  in  a  seasoning 
made  of  thyme,  cloves,  and  pepper  and  salt,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  each  ;  then  draw  these  strips  through  the 
holes  in  the  beef 

Put  some  small  onions,  say  half  a  dozen,,  Avith  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  sauce-pan  with  two  great 
spoonfuls  of  milk  and  stew  them  till  soft,  put  your  beef 
and  these  onions  in  a  pot,  (you  can  stew  the  onions  in 
the  pot  instead  of  the  sauce-pan  if  you  prefer  it.)  pour  on 
hot  water  just  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  cook  slowly 
four  or  five  hours.  Just  before  taking  it  up,  add  a  pint 
of  wine,  either  Port  or  Claret.  The  onions  can  be  cooked 
separately  if  preferred. 

Another  a  la  Mode  Beef. 

If  you  have  about  five  pounds  of  beef,  take  one  pound 
of  bread,  soak  it  in  water,  pour  off  the  water  and  mash 
it  fine,  adding  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  half  a  hen's  egg, 
salt,  mace,  pepper,  cloves,  half  a  teaspoonful  each, 
pounded  fine. 

Mix  all  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  two  eggs. 

Then  cut  holes  through  the  beef  and  put  in  half  of 
this  seasoning,  and  put  it  in  a  bake-pan  with  boiling 
water  enough  to  cover  it. 

Put  the  pan  lid,  heated,  over  it,  and  a  few  coals  on  it, 

4 


38  BOILED   MEATS. 

and  let  it  stew  two  hours,  then  take  it  up  and  spread  the 
otlier  half  of  the  dressing  on  the  top,  and  add  butter  the 
size  of  a  hen's  egg,  heat  the  pan  lid  again  hot  enough 
to  brown  the  dressing,  and  let  it  stew  again  an  hour  and 
a  half. 

When  taken  up,  if  the  gravy  is  not  thick  enough,  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  tiour  wet  up  in  cold  water,  then  add  a 
couple  of  glasses  of  white  wine  to  the  gravy,  and  a  bit 
of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut. 

To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Veal  or  Mutton. 

Make  a  stuffing  of  bread,  and  a  quarter  as  much  of 
salt  pork,  chopped  fine  and  seasoned  with  sweet  herbs, 
pepper  and  salt.  Make  deep  gashes,  or  what  is  better, 
take  out  the  bone  with  a  carving  knife,  and  fill  up  Avith 
stuffing,  and  sew  up  the  opening  with  strong  thread. 
When  there  is  a  flap  of  flesh,  lap  it  over  the  opening 
and  sew  it  down. 

Put  it  into  a  large  pot  and  fill  it  with  water,  putting 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  three 
hours.  If  it  is  needful  to  add  water,  pour  in  h oiling 
water.  When  it  is  done  take  it  up,  and  save  the  broth 
for  next  day's  dinner. 

Pot  Pie,  of  Beef  Veal,  07'  Chicken. 

The  best  way  to  make  the  crust  is  as  follows.  Peel, 
boil,  and  mash  a  dozen  potatoes,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  great  spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  half  a  cup  of 
milk,  or  cream.  Then  stiffen  it  with  flour,  till  you  can 
roll  it.  Be  sure  to  get  all  the  lumps  out  of  the  potatoes. 
Some  persons  leave  out  the  butter. 

Some  roll  butter  into  the  dough  of  bread,  others  make 
a  raised  biscuit  with  but  little  shortening,  others  make  a 
plain  pie  crust.  But  none  are  so  good  and  healthful  as 
the  potato  crust. 

To  prepare  the  meat,  first  fry  half  a  dozen  slices  of 
salt  pork,  and  then  cut  up  the  meat  and  pork,  and  boil 
them  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them,  till  the  meat 
is  nearly  cooked.     Then  peel  a  dozen  potatoes,  and  slice 


BOILED   MEATS.  39 

them  thin.  Then  roll  the  crust  half  an  inch  thick,  and 
cut  it  into  oblong  pieces.  Then  put  alternate  layers  of 
crust,  potatoes,  and  meat,  till  all  is  used.  The  meat 
must  have  salt  and  pepper  sprinkled  over  each  layer. 
The  top  and  bottom  layer  must  be  crust.  Lastly,  pour 
on  the  hquor  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  until  it  just 
covers  the  whole,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  top  crust  is 
well  cooked,  say  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  If 
you  have  occasion  to  add  more  Hquor,  or  water,  it  must 
be  boiling-  hot,  or  the  crust  will  be  spoilt.  The  excel- 
lence of  this  pie  depends  on  having  light  crust,  and  there- 
fore the  meat  must  first  be  nearly  cooked  before  putting 
it  in  the  pie,  and  the  crust  must  be  in  only  just  long 
enough  to  cook,  or  it  will  be  clammy  and  hard.  When 
nearly  done,  the  crust  can  be  browned,  with  hot  coals 
on  a  bake-lid.  Great  care  is  needed  not  to  burn  the 
crust,  which  should  not  be  put  where  the  fire  reached 
the  pot  on  the  bottom. 

Calf^s  Head. 

Take  out  the  brains  and  boil  the  head,  feet,  and  lights, 
in  salted  water,  just  enough  to  cover  them,  about  two 
hours.  When  they  have  boiled  nearly  an  hour  and  a 
half,  tie  the  brains  in  a  cloth  and  put  them  in  to  boil 
with  the  rest.  They  should  previously  be  soaked  half  an 
hour  in  cold  water.  When  the  two  hours  have  expired, 
take  up  the  whole,  and  mash  the  brains  fine,  and  season 
them  with  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  glass  of  Port 
or  Claret,  and  use  them  for  sauce.  Let  the  liquor  re- 
main for  a  soup  the  next  day.  It  serves  more  handsome- 
ly to  remove  all  the  bones. 

Curried  Dishes. 

Chickens  and  veal  are  most  suitable  for  curries.  Boil 
the  meat  till  tender,  and  separate  the  joints.  Put  a  lit- 
tle butter  in  a  stew-pan  with  the  chickens,  pour  on  a 
part  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  enough 
nearly  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  stew  twenty  minutes  more. 

Prepare  the  curry  thus  :  for  four  pounds  of  meat,  take 
a  tablespoon  ful  of  curry  powder,  a  tea-cup  of  boiled  rice, 


40  BOILED    MEATS. 

a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  another  of  melted  butter,  a 
tea-cup  of  the  Uquor,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  mix 
them,  and  pour  them  over  the  meat  and  let  it  stew  ten 
minutes  more. 

Rice  should  be  boiled  for  an  accompaniment. 

To  Prepare  Curry  Powder. 

One  ounce  of  ginger,  one  ounce  of  mustard,  one  of 
pepper,  three  of  coriander  seed,  three  of  tumeric,  half  an 
ounce  of  cardamums,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  Cayenne  pep- 
per, quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  and  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  cummin  seed.  Pound  them  fine,  sift  them, 
and  cork  them  tight  in  a  bottle. 

Veal  jStew. 

Cut  four  pounds  of  veal  into  pieces  three  inches  long 
and  an  inch  thick,  put  it  into  the  pot  with  water  enough 
to  cover  it,  and  rise  an  inch  over.  Add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  put  in  four  or  five  good  slices  of  salt  pork, 
and  half  a  tea-cup  of  rice,  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg, 
and  season  Avith  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet  herbs,  and  let  it 
simmer  slowly  till  the  rice  is  quite  soft,  allowing  half  an 
hour  to  heat  and  an  hour  to  simmer.  If  there  is  too  Ut- 
ile water,  pour  in  hoiling  water. 

Adding  a  httle  curry  turns  it  into  a  dish  of  curried 
veal,  of  which  many  are  very  fond.  Be  sure  and  skim 
it  well,  just  before.it  begins  to  simmer. 

Another  Veal  Stew  {very  fine). 

Cut  four  pounds  of  veal  into  strips  three  inches  long 
and  an  inch  thick,  peel  twelve  large  potatoes  and  cut 
them  into  slices  an  inch  thick,  then  spread  a  layer  of 
veal  on  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
and  a  very  little  pepper  over  it,  then  put  a  layer  of  pota- 
toes, then  a  layer  of  veal  seasoned  as  before.  Use  up 
the  veal  thus,  and  over  the  last  layer  of  veal  put  a  layer 
of  slices  of  salt  pork,  and  over  the  whole  a  layer  of  po- 
tatoes. Pour  in  water  till  it  rises  an  inch  over  the  whole, 
and  cover  it  as  close  as  possible,  heat  it  fifteen  minutes 
and  simmer  it  an  hour. 


BOILED   MEATS.  41 

Ten  minutes  before  taking  up,  put  in  butter  the  size 
of  a  hen's  egg,  stir  in  a  thin  batter  made  of  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour.  Many  add  sweet  herbs  to  the  salt 
and  pepper. 

To  Steio  Birds. 

Wash  and  stuff  them  with  bread  crumbs,  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  butter,  or  chopped  salt  pork,  and  fasten 
them  tight.  Line  a  stew-pan  with  slices  of  bacon,  add 
a  quart  of  water  and  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  goose 
egg,  or  else  four  slices  of  salt  pork. 

Add,  if  you  like,  sliced  onions  and  sweet  herbs,  and 
mace.  Stew  till  tender,  then  take  them  up  and  strain 
the  gravy  over  them.  Add  boiling  water  if  the  liquor 
is  too  much  reduced, 

A  fine  Mutton  Stew. 

Take  three  quarts  of  peeled  and  sliced  potatoes,  three 
large  onions,  peeled  and  sliced,  and  mutton  and  ham 
cut  into  slices.  Make  layers  first  of  potatoes,  salted,  and 
then  with  the  mutton,  sprinkled  with  salt,  pepper,  gravy, 
or  butter,  and  mushroom  or  tomato  catsup,  two  tea-cups 
of  water,  and  the  ham  in  small  quantities.  Cover  tight 
and  stew  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Watch,  and  add  boil- 
ing water  if  needed,  as  there  must  be  a  good  supply  of 
gravy  at  the  bottom. 

A  Sausage  Steio. 

Make  a  thick  layer  of  slices  of  peeled  potatoes,  put  on 
a  little  salt,  and  then  cut  up  sausages  over  the  potatoes. 
Continue  alternate  layers  of  potatoes  and  sausages,  the 
top  layer  being  potatoes,  pour  in  a  little  water  and  some 
grav}^,  or  butter,  and  if  you  have  bits  of  ham  mix  them 
with  the  sausages. 

To  Bake  Beef. 

Take  ten  pounds  of  the  buttock,  rub  it  with  salt  and 
let  it  lie  a  day  or  two,  then  wash  it,  and  make  openings 
in  the  beef  and  insert  bits  of  salt  pork  dipped  in  a  mix- 
ture of  powdered  pepper,  cloves,  and  fine  minced  onions, 

4* 


42  BOILED   MEATS. 

cover  it,  and  let  it  bake  four  or  five  hours.  Put  a  pint 
of  water  and  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  the  baking  pan  and 
baste  occasionally.     Make  a  gravy  of  the  drippings. 

Beef  J  or  Mutton  and  Potato  Pie. 

Take  a  deep  dish,  butter  it,  and  put  in  it  a  layer  of 
mashed  potatoes,  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
minced  onions.  Take  slices  of  beef,  or  mutton,  and  sea- 
son them  with  pepper  and  salt,  lay  them  with  small  bits 
of  salt  pork  over  the  potatoes.  Then  fill  the  dish  with 
alternate  layers,  as  above  described,  having  the  upper 
one  potatoes.     Bake  an  hour,  or  an  hour  and  a  half. 

To  Cook  Pio'eons. 

Pigeons  are  good  stuflfed  and  roasted,  or  baked.  They 
are  better  stewed  thus  : — Stuff  them  like  turkeys,  put 
them  in  a  pot,  breast  downwards,  and  cover  them  with 
salted  water  an  inch  above  the  top,  and  simmer  them 
two  hours  if  tender,  and  three  if  tough.  When  nearly 
done,  stir  in  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  goose  egg^  for 
every  dozen  pigeons.  Take  them  up  and  add  a  little 
flour  paste  to  the  gravy,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour 
some  of  it  over  them,  and  put  the  rest  in  a  gravy  dish. 

Beef  or  Veal  Steived  with  Apples  {^cery  good). 

Rub  a  stew-pan  with  butter,  cut  the  meat  in  thin 
slices,  and  put  in,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  apple  sliced  fine  ; 
some  would  add  a  little  onion.  Cover  it  tight,  and  stew 
till  tender. 

To  Boil  a  Turkey. 

Make  a  stuffing  for  the  craw,  of  chopped  bread  and 
butter,  cream,  oysters,  and  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Sew  it  in, 
and  dredge  flour  over  the  turkey,  and  put  it  to  boil  in 
cold  water,  with  a  spoonful  of  salt  in  it,  and  enough  water 
to  cover  it  well.  Let  it  simmer  for  two  hours  and  a  half, 
or  if  small,  less  time.  Skim  it  while  boiling.  It  looks 
nicer  if  wrapped  in  a  cloth  dredged  with  flour. 

Serve  it  with  drawn  butter,  in  which  are  put  some 
oysters. 


ROASTED  AND  BAKED  MEATS.  43 

To  Boil  Corned  Beef. 

Put  the  beef  in  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it 
heat  slowly,  and  boil  slowly,  and  be  careful  to  take  off 
the  grease.  Many  think  it  much  improved  by  boiling 
potatoes,  turnips,  and  cabbage  with  it.  In  this  case  the 
vegetables  must  be  peeled,  and  all  the  grease  carefully 
skimmed  as  fast  as  it  rises.  Allow  about  twenty  min- 
utes of  boiling  for  each  pound  of  meat. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

ROASTED  AND  BAKED  MEATS. 

General  Remarks. 


Be  sure  you  have  your  spit  and  tin  oven  very  clean 
and  bright,  and  for  this  end  wash  them,  if  possible,  be- 
fore they  get  cold.  If  they  stand,  pour  boiUng  water  on 
to  them. 

Have  a  fire  so  large  as  to  extend  half  a  foot  beyond 
the  roaster  each  side. 

When  meat  is  thin  and  tender,  have  a  small,  brisk 
fire.  When  your  meat  is  large,  and  requires  long  roast- 
ing, have  large  solid  wood,  kindled  with  charcoal  and 
small  sticks.  Set  the  meat,  at  first,  some  distance  from 
the  place  where  it  is  to  roast,  so  as  to  have  it  heat 
through  gradually,  and  then  move  it  up  to  roast. 

Slow  roasting,  especially  at  first,  and  still  more  for 
large  pieces,  is  very  important. 

Allow  about  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of  most 
kinds  of  meat,  and  if  it  is  cold  weather,  or  the  meat 
fresh  killed,  more  time  is  required,  probably  twenty  min- 
utes for  each  pound. 

When  the  meat  is  nearly  done,  stir  up  the  fire  to 
brown  it.  The  meat  should  be  basted  a  good  deal,  es- 
pecially the  first  part  of  the  time. 


44  ROASTED    AND    BAKED    BIEATS. 

Let  meat  be  spitted  so  as  to  be  equally  balanced. 
When  the  meat  is  nearly  done,  the  steam  from  it  Avill 
be  drawn  toward  the  fire. 

A  pale  brown  is  the  proper  color  for  a  roast. 

Some  dredge  on  flour  and  baste,  a  short  time  before 
roasted  meats  are  done. 

Whenever  fresh  lard  is  used  instead  of  butter,  in  the 
dripping-pan.  or  to  rub  on  meats,  more  salt  must  be  used. 

Flour  thickening  in  gravies  must  be  wet  up  with  very 
little  Avater  till  the  lumps  are  out,  and  then  made  thin. 
Never  dredge  flour  into  gravies,  as  it  makes  lumps. 
Strain  all  gravies. 

Roast  Beef. 

The  sirloin,  and  the  first  and  second  cuts  of  the  rack, 
are  the  best  roasting  pieces. 

Rub  it  with  salt ;  set  the  bony  side  to  the  fire  to  heat 
awhile,  then  turn  it,  and  have  a  strong  fire  ;  and  if  thick, 
allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound ;  if  thin,  allow  a  little  less. 
If  fresh  killed,  or  if  it  is  very  cold,  allow  a  little  more 
time.  Half  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  pour  ofif  the  gravy, 
thicken  it  with  brown  flour,  and  season  it  with  salt  and 
pepper.  It  is  the  fashion  to  serve  roast  beef  with  no 
other  gravy  than  the  juice  of  the  meat. 

Roast  Lamh. 

The  fore  and  hind  quarter  of  lamb  are  used  for  roast- 
ing. Rub  on  a  little  softened  butter,  and  then  some 
salt  and  pepper,  heat  the  bony  side  first,  then  turn 
and  roast  by  a  brisk  fire,  allowing  about  fifteen  min- 
utes to  a  pound,  and  rather  more  if  fresh  killed,  or  the 
weather  cold.  Put  a  pint  of  water  and  a  teaspoon ful  of 
salt  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  a  little  lard,  or  butter. 
Lamb  is  to  be  cooked  thoroughly. 

The  following  is  a  very  excellent  sauce  for  roast  lamb. 
Pick,  wash,  and  shred  fine,  some  fresh  mint,  put  on  it  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  four  tablespoon fuls  of  vinegar ; 
or,  chop  some  hard  pickles  to  the  size  of  capers,  and  put 
them  to  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  vinegar. 


ROASTED  AND  BAKED  MEATS.  45 

Roast  Mutton. 

The  saddle,  shoulder,  and  leg  are  used  for  roasting. 

Rub  the  mutton  with  butter,  and  then  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  some  add  pounded  allspice,  or  cloves.  Put 
butter,  or  lard,  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  a  quart  of 
water,  or  a  pint  for  a  small  piece,  and  baste  it  often. 
Set  the  bony  side  toward  the  fire,  at  some  distance,  that 
it  may  heat  through  before  roasting.  Allow  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  for  every  pound.  Mutton  should  be 
cooked  rare. 

Make  a  brown  gravy,  and  serve  it  with  currant  jelly. 

Roast  Veal, 

The  loin  is  the  best  for  roasting,  the  breast  and  rack 
the  next  best.  Wash  the  piece  to  be  roasted  in  cold 
water,  rub  a  little  butter  softened  over  it,  and  then  some 
pepper  and  salt,  put  a  pint  or  more  water  in  the  dripping- 
pan,  and  unless  there  is  a  good  deal  of  fat,  a  bit  of  lard, 
or  butter,  and  baste  often.  Set  the  bony  side  first  to  the 
fire  to  heat.  Allow  twenty  minutes  for  every  pound, 
and  if  cold,  or  fresh  killed,  a  little  more.  Yeal  should 
be  cooked  very  thoroughly.  In  roasting  any  part  except 
the  loin,  cut  slits  in  the  veal  and  draw  through  the  bits 
of  salt  pork,  which,  while  roasting,  impart  a  flavor  to 
the  veal. 

To  Roast  a  Fillet  or  Leg  of  Veal. 

Cut  off  the  shank  bone  of  a  leg  of  veal,  and  cut  gashes 
in  what  remains.  Make  a  dressing  of  chopped  raw  salt 
pork,  salt,  pepper,  sweet  herbs  and  bread  crumbs,  or  use 
iDutter  instead  of  pork.  Stuff  the  openings  in  the  meat 
with  the  dressing,  put  it  in  a  bake-pan  with  water,  just 
enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  bake,  say  two  hours  for 
six  pounds.  Or  put  it  in  a  tin  oven,  and  roast  it  two  or 
three  hours,  according  to  the  size. 

Baked^  or  Roasted  Pig. 

Take  a  pig  that  weighs  from  seven  to  twelve  pounds, 
and  as  much  as  five  weeks  old.     Wash  it  thoroughly 


46  ROASTED  AND  BAKED  MEATS. 

outside  and  inside.  Take  any  fresh  cold  meat,  say  one 
pound,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  and  twice 
as  much  bread  as  you  have  meat. 

Chop  the  bread  by  itself,  and  chop  the  meat  and  pork 
fine  and  mix  all  together,  adding  sweet  herbs,  pepper  and 
salt,  half  a  tea-cup  of  butter,  and  one  egg.  Stuff  the  pig 
with  it,  and  sew  it  up  tight.  Take  off  the  legs  at  the 
middle  joint.  Put  it  into  a  dripping-pan  with  cross-bars 
or  a  grate  to  hold  it  up,  and  with  the  legs  tied,  and  pour 
into  the  pan  a  pint  of  water  and  set  it  in  the  oven.  As 
soon  as  it  begins  to  cook,  swab  it  mth  salt  and  water, 
and  then  in  fifteen  minutes  do  it  again.  If  it  blisters  it 
is  cooking  too  fast ;  swab  it,  and  diminish  the  heat.  It 
must  bake,  if  weighing  twelve  pounds,  three  hours. 
When  nearly  done,  rub  it  with  butter.  When  taken 
out  set  it  for  three  minutes  in  the  cold,  to  make  it  crisp. 

To  Roast  a  tSpai^e  Rib. 

Rub  with  salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  sage.  Put  the 
bone  side  to  Avarm  slowly.  Dredge  on  a  little  flour,  and 
put  a  little  salted  water  and  butter  into  the  dripping- 
pan,  and  baste  with  it.  If  large,  it  requires  three  hours  ; 
if  small,  only  one  to  cook  it.  Pork  must  be  cooked  slow- 
ly and  very  thoroughly. 

Roast  Turkey. 

Wash  the  outside  and  inside  very  clean.  Take  bread 
crumbs,  grated  or  chopped,  about  enough  to  fill  the  tur- 
key, chop  a  bit  of  salt  pork,  the  size  of  a  good  egg^ 
and  mix  it  in,  with  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  pepper, 
salt,  and  sweet  herbs  to  your  taste.  Then  beat  up  an 
egg  and  work  in.  Fill  the  crop  and  the  body,  sew 
them  up,;,  and  tie  the  legs  and  wings,  and  spit  them. 
Set  it  where  it  will  gradually  heat,  and  turn  it  once  or 
twice,  while  heating,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  put  it 
up  to  the  fire,  and  allow  about  twenty-five  minutes  for 
each  pound.  Turkey  must  be  cooked  very  thorough- 
ly. It  must  roast  slowly  at  first,  and  be  often  basted 
with  butter  on  a  fork.  Dredge  it  with  flour  just  be- 
fore taking  it  up,  and  let  it  brown. 


ROASTED   AND    BAKED    MEATS.  ^  47 

Put  the  inwards  in  a  skillet  to  boil  for  two  hours,  chop 
them  up,  season  them,  use  the  liquor  they  are  boiled  in 
for  gravy,  and  thicken  it  with  brown  flour,  and  a  bit  of 
butter,  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg.  This  is  the  giblet  sauce. 
Take  the  drippings,  say  half  a  pint,  thickened  with  a 
paste,  made  of  a  tablespoonful  of  brown,  or  white  flour, 
and  let  it  simmer  five  minutes,  and  then  use  it  for  thin 
gravy. 

Roast  Goose. 

A  goose  should  be  roasted  in  the  same  manner  as  a 
turkey.  It  is  better  to  make  the  stuffing  of  mashed  po- 
tatoes, seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  and  onions,  to  the 
taste.  Apple  sauce  is  good  to  serve  with  it.  Allow  fif- 
teen minutes  to  a  pound,  for  a  goslin,  and  twenty  or 
more  for  an  older  one.     Goose  should  be  cooked  rare. 

Roast  Chickens. 

Wash  them  clean  outside  and  inside,  stuff  them  as 
directed  for  turkeys,  baste  them  with  butter,  lard,  or 
drippings,  and  roast  them  about  an  hour.  Chickens 
should  be  cooked  thoroughly.  Stew  the  inwards  till  ten- 
der, and  till  there  is  but  little  water,  chop  them  and 
mix  in  gravy  fi-om  the  dripping-pan,  thicken  with  brown 
flour,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Cran- 
berry, or  new-made  apple  sauce,  is  good  with  them. 

Roast  Ducks. 

"Wash  the  ducks,  and  stuff  them  with  a  dressing  made 
with  mashed  potatoes,  wet  with  milk,  and  chopped 
onions,  sage,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  Httle  butter,  to  suit  your 
taste.  Reserve  the  inwards  to  make  the  gravy,  as  is 
directed  for  turkeys,  except  it  should  be  seasoned  with 
sage  and  chopped  onions.  They  will  cook  in  about  an 
hour.  Ducks  are  to  be  cooked  rare.  Baste  them  with 
salt  Avater,  and  before  taking  up,  dredge  on  a  little  flour 
and  let  it  brown. 

Green  peas  and  stewed  cranberries  are  good  accompa- 
niments. 

Canvass-back  ducks  are  cooked  without  stuffing. 


48  ROASTED  AND  BAKED  MEATS. 

Wild  ducks  must  be  soaked  in  salt  and  water  the  night 
previous,  to  remove  the  fishy  taste,  and  then  in  the  morn- 
ing put  in  fresh  water,  which  should  be  changed  once 
or  twice. 

Mutton  and  Beef  Pie. 

Line  a  dish  with  a  crust  made  of  potatoes,  as  directed 
in  the  Chicken  Pot  Pie.  Broil  the  meat  ten  minutes, 
after  pounding  it  till  the  fibres  are  broken.  Cut  the 
meat  thin,  and  put  it  in  layers,  with  thin  slices  of  broil- 
ed salt  pork,  season  with  butter,  the  size  of  a  hen  s  Qgg, 
salt,  pepper,  (and  either  wine  or  catsup,  if  hked) ;  put  in 
water  till  it  nearly  covers  the  meat,  and  dredge  in  con- 
siderable flour,  cover  it  with  the  paste,  and  bake  it  an 
hour  and  a  half  if  quite  thick.  Cold  meats  are  good 
cooked  over  in  this  wdcy.  Cut  a  slit  in  the  centre  of  the 
cover. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Joint  and  boil  two  chickens  in  salted  water,  just  enough 
to  cover  them,  and  simmer  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Line 
a  dish  with  raised  or  potato  crust,  or  pie  crust,  then  put 
the  chicken  in  layers,  with  thin  slices  of  broiled  pork, 
butter,  the  size  of  a  goose  Qgg^  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Put  in  enough  of  liquor,  in  which  the  meat  was  boil- 
ed, to  reach  the  surface,  salt  and  pepper  each  layer, 
dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and  cover  all  with  a  light,  thick 
crust.  Ornament  the  top  with  the  crust,  and  bake 
about  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  Make  a  small  slit  in  the 
centre  of  the  crust.  If  it  begins  to  scorch,  lay  a  paper 
over  a  short  time. 

Mutton  Haricot. 

Make  a  rich  gravy  by  boiling  the  coarser  parts  for  the 
liquor,  and  seasoning  with  pepper,  spice,  and  catsup. 
Cut  into  the  gravy,  carrots,  parsnips,  onions,  and  celery, 
boiled  tender  ;  then  broil  the  mutton,  first  seasoning  it 
with  salt  and  pepper,  put  them  into  the  gravy,  and  stew 
all  about  ten  minutes.     Garnish  with  small  pickles. 


ROASTE^'  AND    BAKED    MEATS.  49^ 

To  Cook  a  Shoulder  of  Lmnh. 

(■_  ■  -^ 

Check  the  shoulder  with  cuts  an  inch  deep,  rub  on 
first  butter,  then  salt,  p  ;pper,  and  sweet  herbs,  over  these 
put  the  yolk  of  an  e;^g  and  bread  crumbs,  and  then  bake 
or  roast  it  a  light  brown.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  drip- 
pings, seasoning  with  pepper,  salt,  and  tomato  catsup, 
and  also  the  giated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  thicken 
with  a  very  little  flour. 

Mice  Chicken  Pie. 

Line  a  pudding  dish  with  slices  of  broiled  ham,  cut  up  a 
boiled  chicken,  and  nearly  fill  the  dish,  filhng  in  with 
gravy  or  melted  butter  ;  add  minced  onions  if  you  like, 
or  a  little  curry  powder,  which  is  better.  Then  pile 
boiled  rice  to  fill  all  interstices,  and  cover  the  top  quite 
thick.     Bake  it  for  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Potato  Pie. 

Take  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned  with  salt,  butter,  and 
milk,  and  line  a  baking  dish.  Lay  upon  it  slices  of 
cold  meats  of  any  kind  with  salt,  pepper,  catsup,  and 
batter,  or  gravy.  Put  on  another  layer  of  potatoes,  and 
then  another  of  cold  meat  as  before.  Lastly,  on  the  top 
put  a  cover  of  potatoes. 

Bake  it  till  it  is  thoroughly  warmed  through,  and 
serve  it  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked,  setting  it  in,  or 
upon  another. 

6 


50  FRIED    AND    BROILED    MEATS. 


CHAPTER  V. 

FRIED   AND    BROILED    MEATS. 

General  Remarks. 

It  is  best  to  fry  in  lard  not  salted,  and  this  is  better 
than  butter.  Mutton  and  beef  suet  are  good  for  frying". 
When  the  lard  seems  hot,  try  it  by  throwing  in  a  bit  of 
bread.  When  taking  up  fried  articles,  drain  off  the  fat 
on  a  wire  sieve. 

A  nice  ^Vay  of  Cooking  Calfs  or  Pig's  Liver. 

Cut  it  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  pour  on  boiling  wa- 
ter and  then  pour  it  off  entirely^  then  let  the  liver  brown 
in  its  own  juices,  turning  it  till  it  looks  brown  on  both 
sides.  Take  it  up  and  pour  into  the  frying-pan  enough 
cold  water  to  make  as  much  gravy  as  you  wish ;  then 
sliver  in  onion,  cut  fine,  add  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  and 
ci  bit  of  butter  to  season  it,  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  put 
back  the  liver  for  a  minute,  and  then  set  it  on  the  table. 

Fried  Veal  Cutlets. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  milk,  add  a  well-beaten  egg,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  batter.  Fry  the  veal  brown  in 
some  sweet  lard,  then  dip  it  in  the  batter  and  fry  again 
till  brown.  Drop  in  some  spoonfuls  of  batter,  to  fry  after 
the  veal  is  taken  up,  and  put  them  on  the  top  of  the  veal. 
Then  put  a  little  thin  flour  paste  into  the  gravy,  adding  salt 
and  pepper,  and  after  one  boil,  pour  it  over  the  whole. 
The  veal  must  be  cut  quite  thin,  and  it  should  cook 
nearly  an  hour  in  the  whole. 

Fricassee  Chickens. 

Wash  the  chickens  and  divide  them  into  pieces,  put 
them  in  a  pot,  or  stew-pan,  with  several  slices  of  salt 


FRIED    AND   BROILED    MEATS.  51 

ham,  or  pork,  and  sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt  and  pep- 
per ;  cover  them  with  water,  and  let  them  simmer  till 
tender,  keeping  them  covered.  Then  take  them  up, 
and  mix  with  the  gravy  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
hen's  egg,  and  a  paste  made  of  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour 
w^et  up  with  the  gravy.  Put  back  the  chickens  and  let 
them  stew  five  minutes.  Then  spread  crackers,  or  toasted 
bread,  on  the  platter,  put  the  chickens  on  it,  and  pour  the 
gravy  over. 

In  case  it  is  wished  to  have  them  browned,  take  them  out 
when  nearly  cooked  and  fry  them  in  butter  till  brown, 
or  pour  off  all  the  liquid  and  fry  them  in  the  pot. 

Meats  Warmed  over. 

Cold  beef  is  best  made  into  pies  as  in  a  foregoing  re- 
ceipt. Veal  is  best  made  into  hashes,  or  force  meat,  as  in 
following  receipts.  If  it  is  liked  more  simply  cooked,  chop 
it  fine,  put  in  water  just  enough  to  moisten  it,  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  juice  of  a  lemon.  Some  like  a  little 
lemon  rind  grated  in.  Heat  it  through,  but  do  not  let  it 
fry.  Put  it  on  buttered  toast,  and  garnish  it  with  slices 
of  lemon. 

Cold  salted,  or  fresh  beef  are  good  chopped  fine  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  catsup,  and  water  enough  to  moisten  a  little. 
Add  some  butter  just  before  taking  it  up,  and  do  not  let  it 
fry,  only  heat  it  hot.  It  injures  cooked  meat  to  cook  it 
again.  Cold  fowls  make  a  nice  dish  to  have  them  cut 
up  in  mouthfuls,  add  some  of  the  gravy  and  giblet  sauce, 
a  little  butter  and  pepper,  and  then  heat  them  through. 

A  nice  Way  of  Cooking  Cold  Meats. 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  onion,  or 
else  tomato  catsup,  fill  a  tin  bread  pan  one-third  full,  cov- 
er it  over  with  boiled  potatoes  salted  and  mashed  with 
cream  or  milk,  lay  bits  of  butter  on  the  top  and  set  it 
into  a  Dutch,  or  stove  oven,  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

A  Hash  of  Cold  Meat  for  Dinner  {very  good). 
Peel  six  large  tomatoes  and  one  onion,  and  slice  them. 


52  FRIED   AND    BROILED    MEATS. 

Add  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  bit  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  and  half  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  Shave  up  the  meat  into  small  bits,  as  thin  as 
thick  pasteboard.  Dredge  flour  over  it,  say  two  tea- 
spoonfuls,  or  a  little  less.  Simmer  the  meat  with  all 
the  rest  for  07ie  hour,  and  then  serve  it,  and  it  is  very  fine. 
Dried  tomatoes  can  be  used.  When  you  have  no  to- 
matoes, make  a  gravy  with  water,  pepper,  salt,  and  but- 
ter, or  cold  gravy :  slice  an  onion  in  it,  add  tomato  cat- 
sup (two  or  tliree  spoonfuls),  and  then  prepare  the  meat 
as  above,  and  simmer  it  in  this  gravy  one  hour. 

Cold  Meat   Turnovers. 

Roll  out  wheat  dough  very  thin,  and  put  in  it,  like  a 
turnover,  cold  meat  chopped  fine,  and  seasoned  with  pep- 
per, salt,  catsup,  and  sweet  herbs.  Make  small  ones,  and 
fry  them  in  lard  till  the  dough  is  well  cooked. 

Head  Cheese. 

Boil  in  salted  water  the  ears,  skin,  and  feet  of  pigs  till 
the  meat  drops  from  the  bones ;  chop  it  hke  sausage  meat. 
Season  the  liquor  with  pepper,  salt,  cloves,  nutmeg,  and 
cinnamon,  or  with  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet  herbs,  mix  the 
meat  with  it,  and  while  hot  tie  it  in  a  strong  bag  and 
keep  a  heavy  stone  upon  it  until  quite  cold. 

Souse. 

Cleanse  pigs'  ears  and  feet  and  soak  them  a  week  in 
salt  and  water,  changing  the  water  every  other  day. 
Boil  eight  or  ten  hours  till  tender.  When  cold  put  on 
salt,  and  pour  on  hot  spiced  vinegar.     Fry  them  in  lard. 

Tripe. 

Scrape  and  scour  it  thoroughly,  soak  it  in  salt  and  wa- 
ter a  week,  changing  it  every  other  day.  Boil  it  eight 
or  ten  hours,  till  tender ;  then  pour  on  spiced  hot  vinegar, 
or  fry  or  broil  it. 

Force  Meat  Balls  {another  Hash.) 
Chop  cold  veal   fine  with  one-fourth   as   much   salt 


^ FRIED   AND    BROILED   MEATS.  53 

pork.     Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs.    Make 
them  into  balls  and  fry  them  brown. 

To  Prepare  Cold  Beef  Steaks. 

Put  a  fine  minced  onion  into  a  stew-pan,  and  add  half 
a  dozen  cloves  and  as  many  pepper  corns,  pour  on  a  cof- 
fee cup  of  boiling  water,  and  add  three  large  spoonfuls  of 
butter,  or  some  gravy.  Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.  Then 
cut  up  the  beef  in  mouthfuls  and  put  into  this  gravy  to 
simmer  four  or  five  minutes,  till  heated  through,  but  do 
not  let  it  cook  any  more,  as  it  is  not  healthful. 

Three  large  tomatoes  stewed  with  the  onion  improves 
this. 

A  nice  Way  of  Cooking  Cold  Boiled  Ham. 

Make  quite  a  thin  batter  of  flour,  water,  and  eggs,  with 
a  little  salt.  Pour  the  batter  over  the  bottom  of  a  Dutch 
oven,  or  frying-pan,  which  has  a  very  little  hot  butter,  or 
lard  in  it ;  say  three  great  spoonfuls.  Let  the  batter  be 
no  thicker  on  the  bottom  than  a  straw ;  let  it  fry  a  cou- 
ple of  minutes  and  then  cover  the  batter  with  very  thin 
slices  of  ham,  and  pour  a  thin  cover  of  batter  over  them. 
Let  it  fry  till  the  bottom  looks  a  yellowish  brown  (have 
a  hot  fire),  then  cut  it  into  squares,  or  into  triangular 
quarters,  or  eighths,  and  turn  it  with  a  knife,  and  let  it 
fry  till  the  other  side  is  browned. 

Another  Way  of  Cooking  Cold  Ham. 

Cut  up  all  the  bits  and  ends,  put  them  in  a  fiying,  or 
sauce  pan,  with  a  very  little  water  and  some  butter. 
When  warmed  through,  break  in  some  eggs  and  stir 
them  up  with  the  ham  until  the  ^gg  is  hardened. 

A  Veal  Hash. 

Cut  up  cooked  veal  into  strips,  flour  them  and  fry  them 
to  a  light  brown,  in  butter.  Then  take  them  up  and 
mix  as  much  hot  water  as  there  is  gravy,  add  a  little  flour 
paste,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  catsup,  and  lemon-juice, 
then  add  the  meat  and  heat  it  hot. 

5* 


54  FRIED   AND    BROILED    MEATS^ 

Veal  Balls  {another  Hash). 

Chop  the  cold  veal  fine,  removing  hard  portions,  add 
as  much  bread  crumbs  as  there  is  of  meat,  and  half  as  much 
broiled  salt  pork  chopped  fine.  Moisten  all  with  a  glass 
of  white  wine  if  you  like  it,  put  in  two  eggs,  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Form 
them  into  balls  and  fry  in  butter. 

BROILED    MEATS. 

General  Remarks. 

It  is  best  to  oil  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  with  suet  and 
also  warm  them  before  putting  the  meat  on.  Chalk  is 
sometimes  rubbed  on  to  the  gridiron,  when  fish  is  to  be 
broiled.  It  is  desirable  to  keep  a  gridiron  expressly  for 
fish,  otherwise  meat  is  often  made  to  taste  fishy. 

Broiled  Ham. 

Cut  the  ham  into  thin  shces,  and  broil  it  very  quickly 
over  a  hot  fire,  then  put  on  butter  and  a  little  pepper. 

Broiled  Veal  Cutlets. 

Cut  the  veal  into  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  lay 
them  on  the  gridiron  with  an  equal  number  of  slices  of  salt 
pork  beside  them.  When  cooked,  put  the  veal  on  to  the 
dish,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  it  well,  and  lay  the  salt  pork 
on  the  top  of  it.  Veal  needs  to  broil  a  good  while,  till  it 
looks  done  when  cut  open. 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops. 

These  must  be  broiled  over  a  quick  fire  and  not  cook- 
ed so  much  as  veal. 

Broiled  Pork  Steaks. 

These  must  be  cut  rather  thin,  broiled  quick,  and 
very  thoroughl}^ 

Beef  Steaks. 

Those  from  the  sirloin  are  best,  those  from  the  shoul- 


FRIED    AND    BROILED   MEATS.  55 

der  clod  and  round  are  not  so  good,  but  cheaper.  Meat,  if 
tough,  is  made  more  tender  by  pounding,  if  it  is  done 
very  thoroughly,  so  as  to  break  the  fibres.  Cut  the 
steaks  from  half  an  inch  to  an  inch  thick.  Broil  on  hot 
coals,  and  the  quicker  it  is  done  the  better.  Ten  or 
twelve  minutes  is  enough  time.  Turn  it  four  or  five 
times,  and  when  done  put  on  butter,  salt,  and  if  you  like 
pepper,  and  on  both  sides.  Do  not  let  your  butter  be 
turned  to  oil  before  putting  it  on.  It  is  best  to  have  beef 
tongs  to  turn  beef,  as  pricking  it  lets  out  the  juices. 
Often  turning  prevents  the  surface  from  hardening  and 
cooks  it  more  equally. 

Beef  Liver. 

Cut  it  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  pour  boiling  water  on 
it,  broil  it  with  some  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  dipped  in 
flour  ;  then  cut  the  liver  and  pork  up  into  mouthfuls, 
put  them  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  stew  them  three  or  four  minutes. 

To  Poach  Eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  pour  them  into  a  buttered 
tin,  set  it  on  coals,  add  salt  and  butter,  stir  till  cooked, 
and  then  put  it  on  to  buttered  toast. 

To  Boil  Eggs. 

Put  them  into  boiling  water  and  allow  three  minutes 
if  you  wish  only  the  white  hardened,  and  five  minutes 
if  you  wish  them  hard.  Another  and  more  delicate  way 
is  to  break  them  into  boihng  water  and  let  them  boil 
three  or  four  minutes.  Then  take  them  up  with  a 
skimmer,  draining  them  well,  and  lay  them  on  buttered 
toast,  and  spread  a  little  butter  on  them. 

Another,  and  the  best  way  to  boil  them  when  in  the 
shell,  is  to  pour  on  boiling  Avater  and  let  them  stand  five 
minutes.  Then  pour  it  off  and  pour  on  more  boihng 
water,  and  let  them  stand  five  minutes  longer. 

This  is  the  way  in  which  they  are  cooked  in  egg  boil- 
ers, which  are  set  upon  the  table. 


56  FRIED    A^D    BROILED    MEATS. 

A  Salt  Relish. 

Out  salt  pork  into  thin  slices,  fry  them  till  crisp,  take 
them  out  and  pour  a  little  water  to  the  fat,  dredge  in  a 
little  flour,  and  put  in  a  little  pepper.  Then  cut  up  the 
pork  in  mouthfuls  and  put  to  this  gravy. 

Egg  Frizzle  {very  good). 

Pour  boiUng  water  on  to  salt,  smoked  beef  slivered. 
Pour  off  the  water  and  then  frizzle  it  in  the  fiying-pan 
with  butter.  When  done,  break  in  two  or  three  eggs, 
and  stir  it  till  the  egg  is  hardened. 

Frizzled  Beef. 

Sliver  smoked  beef,  pour  on  boiling  water  to  freshen 
it,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  frizzle  the  beef  in  butter. 

Veal  Cheese. 

Prepare  equal  quantities  of  sliced  boiled  veal  and 
smoked  tongue,  boiled,  skinned,  and  sliced. 

Pound  each  separately  in  a  mortar,  moistening  with 
butter  as  you  proceed. 

Then  take  a  stone  jar,  or  tin  can,  and  mix  them  in  it, 
so  that  it  will,  when  cut,  look  mottled  and  variegated. 
Press  it  hard  and  pour  on  melted  butter.  Keep  it  cover- 
ed in  a  dry  place.     To  be  used  at  tea  in  slices. 

A  Codfish  Relish. 

Take  thin  sUvers  of  codfish,  lay  them  on  hot  coals, 
and  when  a  yellowish  brown,  set  them  on  the  table. 

Another    Way. 

Sliver  the  codfish  fine,  pour  on  boiling  water,  drain  it 
off,  and  add  butter,  and  a  very  little  pepper,  and  heat 
them  three  or  four  minutes,  but  do  not  let  them  fry. 

Salt  Herrings. 

Heat  them  on  a  gridiron,  remove  the  skin,  and  then 
set  them  on  the  table. 


SOUPS.  57 


CHAPTER  VI. 

SOUPS. 

The  delicate  and  proper  blending  of  savoj^s  is  the 
chief  art  of  good  soup-inaking. 

Be  sure  and  skim  the  grease  off  the  soup  when  li  first 
boils,  or  it  will  not  become  clear.  Throw  in  a  little  salt 
to  bring  up  the  scum.     Remove  all  the  grease. 

Be  sure  and  simmer  softly^  and  never  let  a  soup  boil 
hard. 

Put  the  meat  into  cold  water,  and  let  it  grow  warm 
slowly.  This  dissolves  the  gelatine,  allows  the  albumen 
to  disengage,  and  the  scum  to  rise,  and  diffuses  the  sa- 
vory part  of  the  meat.  But  if  the  soup  is  over  a  hot  fire 
the  albumen  coagulates  and  hardens  the  meat,  prevents 
the  water  from  penetrating,  and  the  savory  part  from 
disengaging  itself.  Thus  the  broth  will  be  without  fla- 
vor, and  the  meat  tough.  Allow  about  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  salt  to  four  quarts  of  soup,  where  there  are  many 
vegetables,  and  one  and  a  half  where  there  are  few. 

Be  sure  not  to  leave  any  fat  floating  on  the  surface. 

A  quart  of  water,  or  a  little  less,  to  a  pound  of  meat 
is  a  good  rule. 

Soup  made  of  uncooked  meat  is  as  good  the  second 
day,  if  heated  to  the  boiling  point. 

If  more  water  is  needed,  use  boiling  hot  water,  as  cold 
or  lukewarm  spoils  the  soup.  * 

It  is  thought  that  potato  water  is  unhealthy ;  and 
therefore  do  not  boil  potatoes  in  soup,  but  boil  elsewhere, 
and  add  them  when  nearly  cooked. 

The  water  in  which  poultry,  or  fresh  meat  is  boiled 
should  be  saved  for  gravies,  or  soup,  the  next  day.  If 
you  do  not  need  it,  give  it  to  the  poor. 

Keep  the  vessel  covered  tight  in  which  you  boil  soup, 
that  the  flavor  be  not  lost. 


58  sours. 

Never  leave  soup  in  metal  pots,  as  sometimes  a  fam- 
ily is  thus  poisoned. 

Thickened  soups  require  more  seasoning ;  nearly  dou- 
ble the  quantity  used  for  thin  soups. 

French   Vegetable  Soup. 

Take  a  leg  of  lamb,  of  moderate  size,  and  four  quarts 
water.  Of  potatoes,  carrots,  cabbage,  onions,  tomatoes, 
and  turnips  take  a  tea-cup  full  of  each,  chopped  fine. 
Salt  and  black  pepper  to  your  taste. 

AVash  the  lamb,  and  put  it  into  the  four  quarts  of  cold 
water.  When  the  scum  rises  take  it  off  carefully  with 
a  skimmer.  After  having  pared  and  chopped  the  vege- 
tables, put  them  into  the  soup.  Carrots  require  the  most 
boiling,  and  should  be  put  in  first ;  onions  require  the 
least  boiling,  and  are  to  be  put  in  the  last. 

This  soup  requires  about  three  hours  to  boil. 

Plain  Calf^s  Head  Soup. 

Boil  the  head  and  feet  in  just  water  enough  to  cover 
them ;  when  tender  take  out  the  bones,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  and  season  with  marjoram,  thyme,  cloves,  salt, 
and  pepper. 

Put  all  into  a  pot,  with  the  liquor,  and  four  spoonfuls 
of  thin  batter,  stew  gently  an  hour,  then,  just  as  you  take  it 
up,  add  two  or  three  glasses  of  Port  wine,  and  the  yolks 
of  eggs  boiled  hard. 

An  Excellent  Simple  Mutton  Soup. 

P,ut  a  piece  of  the  fore  quarter  of  mutton  into  salted 
water,  enough  to  more  than  cover  it,  and  simmer  it  slow- 
ly two  hours.  Then  peel  a  dozen  turnips,  and  six  to- 
matoes, and  quarter  them,  and  boil  them  with  the  mut- 
ton till  just  tender  enough  to  eat.  Thicken  the  soup 
with  pearl  barley.  Some  add  sliced  tomatoes,  or  tlie 
juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon.  Use  half  a  tea-cup  of  rice  if 
you  have  no  pearl  barley. 

Pea  Soup. 

Soak  dry  peas  over  night,  putting  a  quart  of  water  to 
each  quart  of  peas.     Next  morning  boil  them  an  hour 


SOUPS.  59 

ill  this  water,  and  ten  minutes  before  the  hour  expires 
put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus.  Change  them  to  fresh 
water,  put  in  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  and  boil  three  or  four 
hours,  till  the  peas  are  soft.  Green  peas  need  no  soak- 
ing, and  must  boil  not  more  than  an  hour.  When  ta- 
ken up,  add  butter. 

Portable  Soup. 

Boil  down  the  meat  to  a  thick  jelly,  season  it  highly 
with  salt,  spices,  and  wine,  or  brandy ;  when  cold,  cut  it 
in  square  inches,  and  dry  them  in  the  sun.  Keep  them 
in  a  tight  tin  vessel,  and  when  you  use  them  put  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  to  one,  or  two  of  the  cakes,  which  should 
be  one  inch  square,  and  the  fourth  of  an  inch  thick. 
Vegetables  can  be  added. 

A  Rich  Mock   Turtle  Soup. 

Divide  the  lower  from  the  upper  part  of  the  head,  and 
put  the  head  in  a  gallon  of  water,  and  boil  till  tender. 

Strain  the  liquor,  and  let  it  stand  till  the  next  day, 
and  then  take  off  the  fat.  Three  c{uarters  of  an  hour 
before  serving  it,  hang  it  over  the  fire  and  season  it  with 
pepper,  salt,  mace,  cloves,  and  sweet  herbs,  tied  up  in  a 
small  bag ;  add  half  a  pint  of  rich  gravy.  Darken  it 
with  fried  sugar,  or  browned  flour ;  add  the  juice  of  two 
lemons,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  boiled  hard,  and  force 
meat  balls.  Just  before  taking  up,  pour  in  half  a  pint 
of  wine. 

Another  Dry  Pea  Soup. 

Soak  the  peas  over  night.  Put  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  split  peas  into  four  quarts  of  water,  with  roast  beef,  or 
mutton  bones,  and  a  ham  bone,  or  slices  of  ham.  Add 
two  heads  of  celery  and  two  onions,  and  stew  slowly  till 
the  peas  are  soft.  Then  strain  the  peas  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  and  put  them  back  and  season  to  your  taste  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Let  it  boil  one  hour  longer.  When 
you  have  no  celery  use  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  celery, 
or  a  spoonful  of  celery  vinegar. 


60  SOUPS. 

Clam  Soup. 

Wash  a  peck  of  clams  and  boil  them  in  a  pint  of  water, 
till  those  on  the  top  open  and  they  come  out  easily.  Strain 
the  liquor,  and  add  a  quart  of  milk.  When  it  just  boils 
thicken  wath  two  and  a  half  spoonfuls  of  flour,  worked 
into  three  of  butter,  Avith  pepper,  mace,  and  other  spices 
to  your  taste.     It  is  better  without  spice. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Put  a  gallon  of  w^ater  to  a  knuckle  of  veal,  boil  it  to 
two  quarts,  strain  and  add  the  juice  of  the  oysters  you 
are  to  use.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Fifteen 
minutes  before  taking  it  up,  put  in  the  oysters.  Ten 
minutes  before  taking  up,  put  in  eight  rolled  crackers, 
and  after  it  stops  boiling,  add  half  a  pint  of  milk. 

Veal  Soup. 

Take  the  knuckle  and  put  it  into  salted  water,  enough 
to  cover  it,  and  also  put  in  a  pound  of  ham.  When  it 
is  boiled  very  tender  take  up  the  meat,  and  strain  the 
soup,  and  add  a  head  of  celer}^,  cut  small,  one  onion,  a 
turnip  and  carrot  sliced,  four  sliced  tomatoes,  a  dozen 
corns  of  pepper,  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Thicken  with 
three  great  spoonfuls  of  rice,  or  vermicelli,  or  a  thin  flour 
paste.    Simmer  it  gently  till  all  the  vegetables  are  done. 

Almost  any  kind  of  meat  can  be  made  into  soup,  by 
taking  the  broth,  and  adding  various  kinds  of  seasoning 
and  thickening ;  such  as  tomatoes,  ochra,  vermicelli, 
sweet  herbs,  and  vegetables,  and  in  such  proportions  as 
each  one  likes  best.  The  preceding  kinds  of  soup  will 
be  a  guide  as  to  proportions. 

Macaroni  Soup  {Mrs.  F.^s  Receipt).  » 

Take  six  pounds  of  beef,  and  put  it  into  four  quarts  of 
water,  with  two  onions,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  and  a 
head  of  celery.  Boil  it  down  three  or  four  hours  slow^ly, 
till  tbere  is  about  tw^o  quarts  of  water,  and  let  it  cool. 
Next  day  take  off  the  grease,  without  shaking  the  sedi- 
ment, and  pour  it  off  into  the  kettle,  half  an  hour  before 
dinner  (leaving  the  sediment  out),  and  add  salt  to  suit 


SOUPS.  61 

the  taste,  a  pint  of  macaroni,  broken  into  inch  pieces, 
and  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  tomato  catsup. 

Southern  Gumbo  [Mrs.  L.^s  Receipt). 

Tliis  is  a  favorite  dish  at  the  South  and  West,  and  is 
made  in  a  variety  of  vrays.  The  following  is  a  very  tine 
receipt,  furnished  by  a  lady,  who  has  had  an  extensive 
opportunity  for  selection. 

Fry  one  chicken,  when  cut  up,  to  a  hght  brown,  and 
also  two  sUces  of  bacon.  Pour  on  to  them  three  quarts 
of  boiling  water.  Add  one  onion  and  some  sweet  herbs, 
tied  in  a  rag.  Simmer  them  gently  three  hours  and  a 
half.  Strain  off  the  hquor,  take  off  the  fat,  and  then  put 
the  ham  and  chicken,  cut  into  small  pieces,  into  the  li- 
quor. Add  half  a  tea-cup  of  ochre,  cut  up;  if  dry,  the 
same  quantity  ;  also  half  a  tea-cup  of  rice.  Boil  all  half 
an  hour,  and  just  before  serving  add  a  glass  of  wine  and 
a  dozen  oysters,  with  their  juice.  Ochre  is  a  fine  vege- 
table, especially  for  soups,  and  is  easily  cultivated.  It  is 
sliced  and  dried  for  soups  in  winter. 

Gihlet  Soup. 

Take  the  feet,  neck,  pinions,  and  giblets  of  two  fowls, 
and  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  veal,  and  a  slice  of  lean 
ham.  Pour  on  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  boil  gent- 
ly till  the  meat  is  very  soft.  Strain  off  the  liquor,  and, 
when  cold,  take  off  the  fat.  Cut  the  giblets  and  meat 
into  half-inch  pieces  :  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with 
one  of  butter,  and  some  of  the  soup  to  thin  it.  Then 
put  into  the  soup  the  butter  and  meat,  with  some  sweet 
herbs  tied  in  a  bag,  with  salt  to  your  taste.  Boil  it  half 
an  hour  and  it  is  done. 

6 


62  FISH. 


CHAPTER  VII. 


FISH. 


Put  fish  into  cold  water  to  boil. 

Remove  any  mud  taste  by  soaking  in  strong  salt  and 
water. 

It  is  cooked  enough  when  it  easily  cleaves  from  the 
bone,  and  is  injured  by  cooking  longer. 

Put  a  napkin  under,  to  absorb  dampness,  when  boiled 
fish  is  laid  on  the  djsh. 

To  fry,  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  use  lard, 
not  butter.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Halibut  is  best  cut  in  slices,  and  fried,  or  broiled.  Bass 
are  good  every  way.  Black  fish  are  best  broiled  or  fried. 
Shad  are  best  broiled,  and  sprinkle  them  with  salt  some 
hours  before  broiling.  Salt  shad  and  mackerel  must  be 
soaked  over  night  for  broiling.  Sturgeons  are  best  fried  ; 
the  part  near 'the  tail  is  best  for  this. 

Directions  for  7naking  Chowder. 

The  best  fish  for  chowder  are  haddock  and  striped 
bass.  Cut  the  fish  in  pieces  of  an  inch  thick,  and  two 
inches  square.  Take  six  or  eight  good-sized  slices  of 
salt  pork,  and  put  in  the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot,  and 
fry  them  in  the  pot  till  crisped.  Take  out  the  pork, 
leaving  the  fat.  Chop  the  pork  fine.  Put  in  the  pot  a 
layer  of  fish,  a  layer  of  split  crackers,  some  of  the  chop- 
ped pork,  black  and  red  pepper,  and  chopped  onion,  then 
another  layer  of  fish,  split  crackers,  and  seasoning.  This 
do  till  you  have  used  your  fish.  Then  just  cover  the 
fish  with  water,  and  stew  slowly  till  the  fisli  is  perfectly 
tender.  Take  out  the  fisli,  and  put  it  in  the  dish  in  which 
you  mean  to  serve  it ;  set  it  to  keep  warm.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  pounded  cracker  ;  add,  if  you  like,  mush- 
room catsup  and  Port  wine.     Boil  the  gravy  up  once, 


FISH.  63 

and  pour  over  the  fish  ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  garnish  with  sHces  of  lemon. 

If  not  salt  enough  from  the  pork,  more  must  be  ad- 
ded. 

To  Fry  Fish. 

Pry  some  slices  of  salt  pork,  say  a  sHce  for  each  pound, 
and  when  brown  take  them  up,  and  add  lard  enough  to 
cover  the  fish.  Skim  it  well,  and  have  it  hot,  then  dip 
the  fish  in  flour,  without  salting  it,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 
Then  take  the  fish  up,  and  add  to  the  gravy  a  little 
flour  paste,  pepper,  salt ;  also  wine,  catsup,  and  spices,  if 
you  like.  Put  the  fish  and  pork  on  a  disli,  and,  after 
one  boil,  pour  this  gravy  over  the  whole. 

Fish  are  good  dipped  first  in  ^gg  and  then  in  Indian 
meal,  or  cracker  crumbs  and  egg^  previous  to  frying. 

To  Boll  Fish. 

Fill  the  fish  with  a  stufl[ing  of  chopped  salt  pork,  and 
bread,  or  bread  and  butter,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  sew  it  up.  Then  sew  it  into  a  cloth,  or  you 
cannot  take  it  up  well.  Put  it  in  cold  water,  with  wa- 
ter enough  to  cover  it,  salted  at  the  rate  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  to  each  pound  of  fish,  and  about  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar.  Boil  it  slowly  for  twenty  or  thirty  min- 
utes, or  till  the  fin  is  easily  drawn  out.  Serve  with  drawn 
butter  and  eggs,  with  capers  or  nasturtions  in  it. 

Fish  can  be  baked  in  the  same  way,  except  sewing  it 
up  in  a  cloth.  Instead  of  this,  cover  it  with  egg  and 
cracker,  or  bread  crumbs. 

To  Broil  Fish. 

Salt  fish  must  be  soaked  several  hours  before  broiling. 
Rub  suet  on  the  bars  of  your  gridiron,  then  j)ut  the  fish 
flesh  side  down  (some  say  skin  side  down,''as  it  saves 
the  juices  better),  and  broil  till  nearly  cooked  through 
Then  lay  a  dish  on  it,  and  turn  the  fish  by  inverting  the 
gridiron  over  the  dish.  Broil  slowly,  and  never  pile  broiled 
fish  one  above  another  on  the  dish. 


64  FISH. 

Baked  Fish. 

Cod,  bass,  and  shad  are  good  for  baking.  Stuff  them 
with  a  seasoning  made  of  bread  crumbs  or  crackers,  but- 
ter, salt,  pepper,  and,  if  you  Uke,  spices.  Put  the  fish  in 
a  bake-pan,  with  a  tea-cup  of  water,  and  a  bit  of  butter, 
and  bake  from  forty-five  to  sixty  minutes. 

Cod  Sounds  and   Tongues. 

Soak  them  four  hours  in  blood-warm  water,  then 
scrape  off  the  skin,  cut  them  up,  and  stew  them  in  a  lit- 
tle milk  till  tender.  Just  before  taking  up  stir  in  butter, 
and  a  little  flour  paste,  and  SL-atter  cold  boiled  eggs  cut 
up  over  them. 

To  Cook  Salt  Codfish. 

Soak  the  fish  in  a  pailful  of  water  all  night.  Then 
hang  it  in  a  good  deal  of  water  where  it  ^v^ll  be  kept 
warm.  Put  one  even  great  spoonful  of  saleratus  in  the 
water.  (This  last  softens  it  as  nothing  else  will  do.) 
Change  the  water  an  hour  before  dinner,  and  hang  it 
where  it  will  get  scalding  hot.  It  must  not  boil,  but 
only  simmer.  Take  it  up  into  a  napkin,  so  as  to  keep 
it  dry  and  hot. 

To  Cook  Cold  Codfish. 

Mash  boiled  potatoes,  mash  the  fish  and  mix  with 
them,  adding  some  cream  or  milk,  and  a  little  pepper, 
make  them  into  round  cakes  an  inch  thick,  and  fry 
them  in  fresh  lard. 

To  Cook  Oysters. 

Oysters  are  best  roasted  in  the  shell,  convex  side 
downward,  to  hold  the  juices,  and  cooked  till  they  will 
open  well.  They  are  good  also  cooked  in  a  batter 
made  by  adding  wheat  flour  to  the  juice  till  it  is  a  bat- 
ter, and  acTding  two  eggs  and  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt. 
Fry  in  hot  lard  to  a  light  brown. 

Lobsters. 
These  must  never  be  cooked  after  they  are  dead. 


FISH.  65 

Put  them  alive  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  till  the 
small  joints  come  off  easily. 

Scolloped  Oysters. 

Take  the  oysters  from  the  liquor,  and  place  some  at 
the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  grate  some  bread  over  them, 
a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and  cloves.  Add  another 
laying  of  oysters,  and  the  seasoning,  a  little  batter,  and 
a  glass  of  wine.  Cover  the  whole  Avith  grated  bread, 
and  bake  half  an  hour,  or  perhaps  a  little  more.  There 
will  be  liquor  enough  without  adding  any  water  or 
oyster  broth. 

Pickled  Oysters. 

After  taking  out  the  oysters,  to  each  quart  of  liquor 
put  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  two  blades  of  mace,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  white  wine,  and  four  of  vinegar,  also 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Simmer  the  oysters  in  this  five 
minutes,  then  take  them  out  and  put  in  jars,  then  boil 
the  pickle,  skim  it,  and  pour  it  over  them. 

To  Crhnp  Fresh  Fish. 

Cut  in  slices  and  lay  them  for  three  hours  in  salt  and 
water,  and  a  glass  of  vinegar,  then  fry  or  broil  them. 

To  Cook  Eels. 

Dress  them,  lay  them  open  flat,  rub  them  with  salt 
and  pepper,  cut  them  in  short  pieces,  and  broil  them. 
Small  ones  are  best  skinned  and  fried. 

To  Cook  Scollops. 

Boil  them,  take  out  the  hearts  (which  is  the  only  part 
used),  dip  them  in  flour  and  t\y  brown  in  lard,  or  stew 
with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  water. 

A  Good  Way  of  Using  Cold  Fresh  Fish. 

Take  cold  cooked  fish,  chop  it  with  bread  crumbs, 
pepper,  salt,  and  boiled  salt  pork,  or  ham  ;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  catsup,  or  wine.  Mould  into  balls  with  egg 
and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  lard. 

6* 


66  ON    THE    PREPARATION    OF 

To  Cook  Clams. 

Thin-edged  clams  are  the  best  ones.  Roast  them  in 
a  pan  over  a  hot  fire,  or  in  a  hot  oven,  placing  them  so 
as  to  save  the  juice.  When  they  open,  empty  the  jitice 
into  a  sauce-pan,  and  add  the  clams  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  very  little  salt. 

To  boil  them,  put  them  in  a  pot  with  a  very  little 
water,  and  so  as  to  save  their  juices.  Proceed  as  above, 
and  lay  buttered  toast  in  the  dish  when  you  take  them 
up.     Clams  are  good  put  into  a  batter  and  fried. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 

ON    THE    PREPARATION    OF    HASHES,    GRAVIES,    AND    SAUCES. 

There  is  nothing  worse  for  the  health,  or  for  the  pal- 
ate, than  a  poor  hash,  while  a-good  hash  is  not  only  a 
favorite  dish  in  most  families,  but  an  essential  article  of 
economy  and  convenience.  For  this  reason,  a  separate 
article  is  devoted  to  this  subject. 

The  following  are  the  ways  in  which  hashes  are 
spoilt. 

The  first  is  by  cooking  the'm.  Meat,  when  once 
cooked,  should  only  be  heated.  If  it  is  again  stewed  or 
fried,  it  tends  to  make  it  hard  and  tough,  and  diminish- 
es its  flavor. 

The  second  is  by  frying  the  butter  or  gravy  in 
which  they  are  prepared.  It  has  been  sliown  that  this 
is  very  injurious  to  the  hcalthfulness  of  food.  Butter 
and  oils  may  be  melted  without  changing  their  nature, 
but  when  cooked.,  they  become  much  more  indigestible 
and  injurious  to  weak  stomachs. 

The  third  mode  of  injuring  hashes  is  by  putting  in 
flour  in  such  ways  tliat  it  is  not  properly  cooked.  Flour 
dredged  on  to  hashes  while  they  are  cooking  generally 
imparts  the  raw  taste  of  dough. 


HASHES,    GRAVIES,    AND    SAUCES.  67 

The  fourth  mode  is  by  putting  in  so  much  water  as 
to  make  them  vapid,  or  else  so  much  grease  as  to  make 
them  gross. 

The  fifth  is  by  seasoning  them  with  so  httle  care,  that 
they  either  have  very  httle  savory  taste,  or  else  are  so 
hot  with  pepper  and  spice  as  to  be  unhealthy. 

If  a  housekeeper  will  follow  these  directions,  or  give 
them  to  a  cook  who  will  follow  them  exactly,  she  will 
always  have  good  and  healthful  hashes. 

To  prepare  Gravy  for  a  Cold  Beef  Hash^  or  Steak 

Hash. 

For  a  small  dish  for  six  persons,  put  a  tea-cup  and  a 
half  of  boiling  water  into  a  small  sauce-pan,  and  make  a 
thin  paste  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  wet  with 
a  great  spoonful  of  cold  water.  Stir  it  in,  and  boil  it  three 
minutes.  Then  put  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pep- 
per and  rather  more  salt,  and  let  it  stand  where  it  will  be 
kept  hot,  but  not  boiling,  till  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is 
to  be  used. 

Then  cut  the  beef  into  half-inch  mouthfuls  and  take 
as  many  mouthfuls  of  cold  boiled  potato,  and  half  as 
many  of  cold  turnip.  Put  these  all  together  into  a  tin 
pan  the  size  of  a  dining  plate.  Then  stir  in  two  great 
spoonfuls  of  butter  into  the  gravy  till  melted,  and,  if  you 
like  tomato  catsup,  add  a  great  spoonful,  and  pour  it 
over  the  hash,  and  cover  it  with  a  plate  and  let  it  heat 
on  the  stove,  or  trivet,  ten  minutes,  and  then  serve  it. 

If  the  hash  is  made  without  vegetables,  take  only  a 
tea-cup  full  of  water,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and 
a  httle  less  pepper  and  salt. 

If  you  have  the  beef  gravy  of  yesterday,  use  it  instead 
of  butter,  and  put  in  less  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  wa- 
ter, and  only  one  spoonful  of  butter. 

If  tomatoes  are  hked,  peel  and  slice  two  large  ones, 
and  add  with  the  potatoes  and  turnips. 

Let  a  housekeeper  try  this,  and  then  vary  it  to  her 
own  taste,  or  the  taste  of  her  family,  and  then  write 
the  exact  proportions  for  the  use  of  all  the  future  cooks 
of  her  family. 


68  ON   THE   PREPARATION   OF 

Gravy  for  a  Mutton  Hash^  or  Venison  Hash. 

For  a  dish  for  six  persons,  take  a  tea-cup  and  a  half 
of  boiling  water,  and  slice  fine  one  small  onion  (say  one 
an  inch  in  diameter)  into  it,  to  give  a  shght  flavor  of 
onion,  and  thus  hide  the  strong  mutton  taste.  Mix  a 
thin  paste  made  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  wet 
with  a  great  spoonful  of  water,  stir  it  in,  and  let  it  boil 
three  minutes,  adding  a  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pep- 
per, and  rather  more  salt.  Then  set  it  where  it  will  keep 
hot,  but  not  boil,  till  wanted. 

Cut  the  mutton  into  half-inch  mouthfuls,  leaving  out 
most  of  the  fat.  Cut  up  the  same  nmnberof  mouthfuls 
of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  half  as  much  cold  boiled  tur- 
nips, and  slice  in  two  large  peeled  tomatoes,  or  cold  boiled 
parsnip,  or  both.  Mix  them  in  a  tin  pan  the  size  of  a 
dining  plate,  slir  two  great  spoonfuls  of  butter  into  the 
gravy,  and,  if  you  like,  a  great  spoonful  of  tomato  cat- 
sup, and  pour  it  on  to  the  hash.  Cover  it  with  a  plate, 
and  set  it  to  heat  ten  minutes  on  the  stove,  or  on  a  trivet 
over  coals. 

If  you  do  not  put  in  vegetables,  take  less  water,  salt, 
and  pepper.  If  you  do  not  put  in  onion,  put  in  a  wine- 
glass of  currant,  plum,  or  grape  jelly,  or  squeeze  in  some 
lemon  juice  when  you  add  the  butter,  and  leave  out  the 
catsup,  or  not,  as  you  like.  Modify  to  suit  your  taste, 
and  then  write  the  proportions  exactly,  for  all  futuie 
cool?s  of  your  family. 

To  prepare  a  Veal  Hash. 

Take  a  tea-cup  of  boiling  water  in  a  sauce-pan,  and 
mix  in  an  even  teaspoonful  of  flour  wet  with  a  spoonful 
of  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes.  Then  add, 
not  quite  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  as  much 
salt,  and  two  great  spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  set  it  where 
it  Avill  keep  hot,  but  not  boil. 

Chop  the  veal  very  fine,  and  mix  w^ith  it,  while  chop- 
ping, half  as  much  stale  bread  crumbs.  Put  it  in  a  tin 
pan  and  pour  the  gravy  on  to  it,  and  let  it  heat  on  a 
btove  or  trivet  ten  minutes. 


HASHES,    GRAVIES,    AND    SAUCES.  69 

Toast  some  bread  and  cut  it  into  triangular  pieces,  and 
lay  it  on  the  bottom  of  a  disli.  Spread  the  liash  over, 
and  pour  on  the  gravy.  Cut  shces  of  lemon  to  lay  ou 
the  top  and  around  the  edge  of  the  platter. 

If  you  like  a  seasoning  of  sweet  herbs  Avith  this  hash, 
the  nicest  way  is  to  tie  some  in  a  rag  and  boil  it  in  the 
water  of  the  gravy  when  you  first  mix  it. 

Common  Gravies. 

Pour  out  the  drippings  of  the  tin  roaster  through  a 
gravy  strainer,  into  a  pan,  and  set  it  away  till  cold. 
Next  day,  scrape  the  sediment  from  the  bottom  and  then 
use  it  to  make  gravy  in  place  of  butter,  for  hashes. 
Mutton  drippings  must  never  be  used  for  cooking. 

It  is  not  fashionable  to  have  gravy  made  for  roast  beef 
or  mutton,  as  the  juice  of  the  meat  is  preferred,  which, 
on  the  plate,  is  mixed  Avith  catsup  or  whatever  is  prefer- 
red. 

Gravies  for  poultry  are  made  as  directed  in  the  article 
on  roasting  meats. 

Drawn  butter  is  the  foundation  of  most  common 
gravies,  and  is  to  be  prepared  in  either  of  the  two  ways 
described  below. 

Draum  Butter^  or  Melted  Butter. 

Rub  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Hour  into  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter.  Add  five  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  w^ater. 
Set  it  into  boihng  ^vater  and  let  it  melt,  and  heat  until 
it  begins  to  simmer,  and  it  is  done.  Never  simmer  it  on 
coals,  as  it  fries  the  oil  and  spoils  it.  Be  careful  not  to 
have  the  flour  in  lumps.  If  it  is  to  be  used  with  fish, 
put  in  chopped  eggs  and  nasturtions,  or  capers. 

If  used  with  boiled  fowl,  put  in  oysters  while  it  is  sim- 
mering, and  let  them  heat  through. 

Another  Mode  of  j^reparing  Dratvn  Butter. 

Make  three  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  into  a  thin  batter, 
and  stir  it  into  a  tea-cup  of  boihng  water  in  a  sauce -pan, 
and  let  it  boil  five  minutes.  Then  take  it  off,  and  cut 
up  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  pieces,  and  put  in 


70  ON    THE    PREPARATION    OF 

and  keep  it  hot  till  it  is  melted.  This  is  the  easiest  way, 
and  if  it  is  for  very  rich  cooking  more  butter  may  be  ad- 
ded. 

Drawn  Meat  Gr^avies,  or  Broivn  Gravies. 

Put  into  a  sauce-pan  fresh  meat  cut  in  small  pieces, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  bit  of  butter,  and 
heat  it  half  an  hour,  till  brown,  stirring  so  that  it  shall 
not  stick. 

Pour  on  boiling  water,  a  pint  for  each  pound — sim- 
mer three  hours  and  skim  it  well.  Settle  and  strain  it, 
and  set  it  aside  to  use.  Thicken,  when  you  need  it, 
with  brown  flour,  a  teaspoonful  to  a  half  pint. 

A  Nice  Article  to  use  for  Gravy ^  or  Soup. 

Take  butter  the  size  of  an  e.gg^  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  put  it  in  a  skillet,  and  stir  it  till  a  dark  brown, 
then  dredge  in  flour,  and  use  it  to  darken  gravy  or  soup. 

Burnt  Butter  for  Fish^  or  Eggs. 

Heat  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  till  a  dark 
brown,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  half  a  dozen  shakes  from  the  pepper 
box. 

Sauce  for  Salad,  or  Fish. 

Take  the  yolk  of  two  eggs  boiled  hard,  mash  them 
with  a  mustard  spoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  black  pep- 
per, a  little  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  and 
three  of  vinegar.  A  tablespoonful  of  catsup  would  im- 
prove it  for  many. 

Wine  Sauce  for  Mutton,  or  Venisoji. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  in  w^iich  the  meat  was 
cooked,  and  when  boiling,  put  in  pepper,  salt,  currant 
jelly,  and  wine  to  your  taste ;  add  about  a  teaspoonful 
of  scorched  flour,  mixed  with  a  little  water. 

Oyster  Sauce. 
Take  a  pint  of  oyster  juice,  add  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  a  stick  of  mace,  boil  it  five  minutes,  and  then 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  wet  up  in  half  a  tea-cup 


HASHES,    GRAVIES,    AND    SAUCES.  71 

of  milk.  Let  this  boil  two  minutes,  then  put  in  the 
oysters  and  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  in  two 
minutes  take  them  up. 

Lobster  Sauce. 

Mix  in  six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  the  yolks  of  two 
boiled  eggs,  some  of  the  lobster  spawn,  a  mustard  spoon- 
ful of  mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil  or  melted 
butter,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 

Apple  Sauce. 
Boil  peeled  and  quartered  tart  apples,  and  put  in  but- 
ter and  sugar  to  your  taste.     If  boiled  in  cider  with  quin- 
ces, it  will  keep  a  long  time.     The  fresh-made  is  best. 

Celery  Sauce  for  Boiled  Foiols. 
Take  four  or  five  celery  heads,  and  cut  up  all  but  the 
green  tops  into  small  pieces,  and  boil  it  in  half  a  pint  of 
water  till  tender.  Mix  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  with  a 
little  milk  and  put  in,  with  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt,  and 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.     When  it  boils,  take  it  up. 

Celery  Vinegar. 

This  is  fine  to  keep  in  the  castor  stand.  Pound  two 
gills  of  celery  seed,  and  add  sharp  vinegar.  Shake  every 
day  for  a  week  or  two.  The  flavor  of  sweet  herbs  and 
sage  can  be  obtained  by  pouring  vinegar  on  to  them,  and 
for  three  successive  days  taking  them  out,  and  putting 
in  a  fresh  supply  of  herbs.  It  must  be  kept  corked  and 
sealed. 

Essence  of  Celery^  to  flavor  Soup. 

Bruise  celery  seed,  and  steep  it  in  brandy  for  a  fort- 
night. An  ounce  to  half  a  pint  of  brandy  is  enough. 
Half  a  teaspoonful  will  flavor  soup. 

IIe7^b  Spirit. 
It  is  convenient  sometimes  to  use  herb  spirit  instead 
of  the  herbs.  It  is  made  thus.  Take  all  the  sweet 
herbs,  as  thyme,  marjoram,  sweet  basil,  and  summer 
savory,  dry,  pound,  sift,  and  steep  in  brandy  for  a  fort- 
night ;  an  ounce  to  half  a  pint. 


72  HASHES,    GRAVIES,    AND    SAUCES. 

Soup  Powder. 

The  folloA\nng  is  a  very  convenient  article  for  soups. 
Dry,  pound,  and  sift  the  following  ingredients  together. 
Take  one  ounce  each,  of  lemon,  thyme,  basil,  sweet 
marjoram,  summer  savory,  and  dried  lemon  peel,  with 
two  ounces  of  dried  parsley,  and  a  few  dried  celery  seeds. 
Bottle  it  tight.  Horseradish  can  be  sliced  thin,  dried 
and  pounded,  and  kept  in  a  bottle  for  use.  Mushrooms 
can  be  dried  in  a  moderately  warm  oven,  then  powdered 
\vith  a  little  mace  and  pepper,  and  kept  to  season  soup 
or  sauces. 

Soy. 

One  pound  of  salt,  tw^o  pounds  of  sugar,  fried  half  an 
hour  over  a  slow  fire,  then  add  three  pints  of  boiling 
water,  half  a  pint  of  essence  of  anchovies,  a  dozen  cloves, 
and  some  sweet  herbs.  Boil  till  the  salt  dissolves,  then 
strain  and  bottle  it. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  the  tomatoes,  let  them  stand  un- 
til you  can  rub  off  the  skin,  then  cover  them  with  salt, 
and  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then  strain 
them,  and  to  two  quarts  put  three  ounces  of  cloves,  two 
ounces  of  pepper,  two  nutmegs.  Boil  half  an  hour,  then 
add  a  pint  of  wine. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

Put  the  mushrooms  in  layers,  with  salt  sprinkled  over 
each  layer,  and  let  them  stand  four  days.  Then  mash 
them  fine,  and  to  every  quart  add  two-thirds  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  boil  it  in  a  stone  jar  set  in 
boiling  water  two  hours.  Strain  it  without  squeezing, 
boil  the  liquor,  let  it  stand  to  cool  and  settle,  then  bottle, 
cork,  and  seal  it,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Walnut  Catsup. 

Bruise  ten  dozen  young  walnuts,  add  a  quart  of  vinegar, 
and  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  fine  salt.  Let  them  stand 
two  weeks,  stirring  every  day.     Strain  off  the  liquor, 


VEGETABLES.  73 

and  add  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper  whole,  thirty 
cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  bruised  nutmeg-,  half  an  ounce 
of  ginger,  and  four  sticks  of  mace.  Boil  the  whole  an 
hour,  then  strain  and  bottle  tisrht. 


CHAPTER   IX. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes. 


The  great  art  of  cooking  potatoes  is,  to  take  them 
up  as  soon  as  they  are  done.  Of  course  it  is  important 
to  begin  to  cook  them  at  the  proper  time. 

When  boiled,  baked,  fried,  or  steamed,  they  are  ren- 
dered watery  by  continuing  to  cook  them  after  they  reach 
the  proper  point.  For  this  reason,  potatoes,  to  bake  or 
boil,  should  be  selected  so  as  to  have  them  nearly  the 
same  size.  Begin  with  the  largest  first,  and  continue  to 
select  the  largest  till  all  are  gone.  Be  careful  that  the 
water  does  not  stop  boiling,  as  thus  the  potatoes  will  be 
watery.     Never  boil  them  very  hard,  as  it  breaks  them. 

Boiled  Potatoes. 

Wash,  but  do  not  cut  them.  Put  them  in  boilincr 
w^ater,  having  only  a  small  quantity  more  than  enough 
to  cover  them.  Put  salt  in,  say  a  great  spoonful  to  half 
a  pailful  of  potatoes.  Boil  them  moderately  ;  when  near- 
ly done,  let  them  simmer  slowly,  and  when  cooked  (as  is 
discovered,  not  by  their  cracking,  but  by  a  fork)  pour  off 
the  water,  and  let  them  stand  till  dry.  Medium-sized 
potatoes,  when  young,  will  cook  in  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes  ;  when  old,  it  requires  double  the  time.  When 
peeled  they  boil  fifteen  minutes  quicker.  Old  potatoes, 
in  the  spring,  are  improved  by  soaking  in  water  all 
night. 

7 


74  VEGETABLES. 

Other  Modes  of  Cooking  Potatoes. 

After  boiling  and  peeling  them,  divide  them  and*  lay 
them  on  a  gridiron  to  brown.  Or  when  cold,  the  day 
after  boiUng,  cut  them  in  slices,  and  cook  them  on  a 
griddle,  with  just  enough  lard  to  make  them  brown,  or 
you  can  brown  them  on  a  gridiron. 

Another  pretty  mode  for  a  fancy  dish  is,  to  peel  large 
potatoes  and  then  cut  them  round  and  round  in  shavings, 
as  you  pare  an  apple.  Fry  them  with  clean  sweet  lard 
in  a  frying-pan,  till  brown,  stirring  them  to  brown  alike, 
drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and  after  sprinkling  a  little  fine 
salt  over  them,  place  them  on  the  table. 

Another  tasteful  mode  is,  after  boiling  and  peeling 
them,  to  flour  them,  then  dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an  eg^, 
and  roll  them  in  fine  bread  crumbs.  Then  fry  them  till 
brown  and  they  look  very  handsomely,  and  are  excel- 
lent to  the  taste.  Fry  them  without  this  preparation 
and  they  are  very  nice. 

When  potatoes  become  old,  mash  them  fine,  seSison 
with  salt  and  butter,  and  a  little  cream  or  milk,  place 
them  in  a  dish,  smoothing  and  shaping  the  top  hand- 
somely, and  making  checks  with  a  knife  ;  then  brown 
them  in  a  stove,  or  range-oven,  and  they  are  excellent. 
These  can  also  be  made  into  iDalls,  dipped  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fried  as  directed  above,  and  they  look  very 
handsomely. 

Potatoes,  when  roasted,  should  be  very  carefully 
washed  and  rinsed,  and  then  roasted  in  a  Dutch  oven, 
or  stove  oven.  Notice,  lest  they  be  put  in  too  soon,  and 
thus  be  made  watery  by  cooking  too  long. 

The  following  is  a  very  nice  Avay  of  preparing  pota- 
toes for  breakfast.  Peel  them,  and  cut  them  in  very 
thin  slices  into  a  very  little  boihng  water,  so  httle  that  it 
will  be  evaporated  when  they  are  cooked.  At  this  point, 
add  salt  to  your  taste,  some  cream,  or  if  you  have  not 
cream  put  in  a  very  little  milk  and  a  bit  of  butter.  A 
little  practice  will  make  this  a  very  favorite  dish  in  any 
family.  The  art  is,  to  cook  the  potatoes  with  very  little 
water,  so  that  it  will  be  evaporated  at  the  time  the  pota- 


VEGETABLES.  75 

toes  are  clone.  They  must  be  stirred  while  cooking  occa- 
sionally. 

Another  mode  is,  to  mash  the  potatoes  and  add  salt, 
butter,  and  a  little  cream,  and  set  them  away.  Then 
cut  them  in  slices,  and  fry  for  breakfast. 

Many  think  the  following  the  best  way  of  boiUng  po- 
tatoes. Peel  them,  and  soak  in  cold  water  two  hours. 
Boil  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them.  When  about 
done,  pour  off  the  water,  and  let  them  steam  five  minutes 
uncovered. 

Turnips. 

Boil  turnips  in  a  vessel  by  themselves.  Try  them 
with  a  fork,  and  if  sweet  and  good,  send  them  to  the  ta- 
ble when  taken  up.  If  watery,  mash  them,  wring  them 
in  a  cloth,  and  add  salt  and  butter,  and  if  the  sweetness 
is  gone,  add  a  little  white  sugar,  and  they  will  be  as 
good  as  new.  Boil  them  in  a  good  deal  of  water,  with 
salt  in  it.  If  they  boil  too  long,  they  lose  their  sweetness 
and  become  bitter.  An  hour  is  the  medium  time  re- 
quired. 

Asparagus. 

Keep  it  cool  and  moist  on  the  cellar  bottom  till  wanted. 

Throw  it  into  cold  water,  cut  off  all  that  is  tough,  tie 
it  in  small  bundles,  salt  the  water  when  boihng,  and 
then  put  them  in  and  let  them  boil  from  fifteen  to  twen- 
ty-five minutes.  When  done,  take  it  up  with  a  skim- 
mer, lay  it  on  buttered  toast,  and  put  butter  on  to  it. 
Drain  it  well  on  the  skimmer  before  putting  it  on  the 
toast,  or  it  will  spoil  the  dish. 

Beets. 

Beets  must  not  be  cut,  as  this  makes  them  lose  their 
sweetness.  Salt  the  water,  and  boil  them  in  summer 
an  hour,  and  in  winter  three  hours. 

Parsnips  and  Carrots. 

Parsnips  and  carrots  must  be  split,  or  else  the  outside 
is  done  too  much  before  the  inside  is  cooked  sufficiently. 
Salt  the  water,  and  boil  them  when  young  half  an  hour, 


76  VEGETABLES. 

and  two  hours  when  old.  Boil  enough  to  have  some  to 
slice  and  fry  for  the  next  day's  dinner  or  breakfast,  as 
they  are  much  the  best  cooked  in  this  way. 

Onions. 

Select  the  white  kind,  peel  them  and  put  them  in 
boiling  milk,  a  little  salted,  and  boil  them  from  half  to 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.  When  taken  up,  drain  in  a 
colander,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  them,  or  put 
on  cold  butter, 

Jerusalem  Artichokes. 

Scrape  them,  and  put  them  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Boil  large  ones  about  two  hours,  then  take  them  up  and 
butter  them. 

Squashes. 

Summer  squashes  boil  whole,  when  very  young. 
When  older,  quarter  them,  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Put 
them  into  boiling  salted  water  ;  when  done,  squeeze  out 
the  water  by  wringing  in  a  cloth,  and  add  butter  and 
salt  to  your  taste. 

The  neck  part  of  the  winter  squash  is  the  best ;  cut 
it  into  slices,  peel  it,  boil  it  in  salted  Avater  till  tender,  then 
drain  off  the  water,  and  serve  it  without  mashing,  or,  if 
preferred,  wring  it  and  season  with  butter  and  salt. 
What  is  left  over  is  excellent /ri^6^  for  next  day's  break- 
fast or  dinner.  It  must  be  in  slices,  and  not  mashed. 
Save  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled,  to  make  yeast 
or  brown  bread,  for  which  it  is  excellent. 


'5 


Cabbage  and  Cauliflowers. 

Take  off  the  outer  leaves  of  a  cabbage,  cut  the  stalky 
part  in  quarters,  down  to  the  centre,  put  it  in  boihng 
salted  water,  and  boil  them  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour. 
Cabbages,  like  turnips,  must  have  a  good  deal  of  water, 
or  tliey  will  taste  strong. 

For  cauliflowers,  cut  off  all  the  leaves  but  the  small 
ones  mixed  with  the  head,  and  boil  in  salted  water  till 
it  is  tender.     Some  wrap  some  of  the  large  leaves  around 


VEGETABLES.  7T 

the  head,  and  tie  them  on,  and  when  cooked  throw  aside 
the  leaves.  Drain  the  cauliflower  with  a  skimmer  and 
eat  it  with  drawn  butter. 


Most  vegetables  must  be  put  in  water  only  sufficient 
to  cover  them,  allowing  a  little  more  for  evaporation. 
Strong  vegetables  Uke  turnips,  cabbage,  and  some  of  the 
greens,  require  a  good  deal  of  water. 

Peas. 

Peas,  to  be  good,  must  be  fresh  from  the  vines. 
Throw  them  into  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  them 
from  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes,  according  to  their  age. 
When  old,  they  are  improved  by  putting  a  very  httle 
saleratus  into  the  water,  say  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
to  half  a  peck  of  shelled  peas. 

Sioeet  Corn. 

If  it  is  to  be  boiled  on  the  cob,  put  it  in  salted  boiling  wa- 
ter, and  let  it  cook  from  twenty  minutes  to  three  quarters  of 
an  hour  after  it  begins  to  boil,  according  to  the  age  of 
the  corn. 

/^2Cccatos/i. 

If  you  wish  to  make  succatosh,  boil  the  beans  from 
half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  in  water  a  little  salt, 
meantime  cutting  off  the  corn  and  throwing  the  cobs  to 
boil  with  the  beans.  Take  care  not  to  cut  too  close  to 
the  cob,  as  it  imparts  a  bad  taste.  When  the  beans  have 
boiled  the  time  above  mentioned,  take  out  the  cobs,  and 
add  the  corn,  and  let  the  whole  boil  from  fifteen  to  twen- 
t}'-  minutes,  for  young  corn,  and  longer  for  older  corn. 
Make  the  proportions  two-thirds  corn  and  one-third  beans. 
Where  you  have  a  mess  amounting  to  two  quarts  of 
corn  and  one  quart  of  beans,  take  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  wet  it  into  a  thin  paste,  and  stir  it  into  the  succatosh, 
and  let  it  boil  up  for  five  minutes.  Then  lay  some  but- 
ter in  a  dish,  take  it  up  into  it,  and  add  more  salt  if 
need  be. 

7* 


78  ,  VEGETABLES. 

Beaiis. 

Throw  them  into  salted  boiling  water,  and  cook  them 
from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half,  according  to  the 
age.  A  Uttle  saleratus  improves  them  when  old  ;  a  piece 
as  big  as  a  pea  will  do.  If  you  put  in  too  much,  the 
skins  will  slip  off. 

Egg  Plant. 

Boil  them  in  a  good  deal  of  water  a  few  minutes,  to 
get  out  the  bitter  taste,  then  cut  them  in  slices,  and 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  them.  Then  fry  them  brown  in 
lard  or  butter.  If  they  are  fried  on  a  griddle,  with  only 
butter  enough  to  keep  them  from  sticking,  they  are  bet- 
ter than  when  more  butter  is  used. 

Baked  Beans. 

Pick  over  the  beans  the  night  before,  and  put  them 
in  warm  water  to  soak,  where  they  will  be  kept  warm 
all  night.  Next  morning  pour  off  the  water,  and  pour 
on  boihng  water,  and  let  them  stand  and  simmer  till  the 
beans  are  soft,  and  putting  in  with  them  a  nice  piece  of 
pork,  the  skin  gashed.  Put  them  into  the  deep  dish  in 
which  they  are  to  bake,  having  water  just  enough  to 
cover  them.  Bury  the  pork  in  the  middle,  so  that  the 
top  will  be  even  with  the  surface.  All  the  garden  beans 
are  better  for  baking  than  the  common  field  bean.  They 
must  bake  in  a  moderately  liot  oven  from  two  to  three 
hours. 

Tomatoes. 

Pour  on  scalding  water,  and  let  them  remain  in  it  five 
minutes,  to  loosen  the  skins.  Peel  them,  and  put  them 
in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  salt  and  butter,  and  let  them 
stew  half  an  hour,  and  then  pour  them  on  to  buttered 
toast. 

Another  Way. — Peel  them,  put  them  in  a  deep  dish, 
put  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  httle  butter  over  them,  then 
make  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  or  pounded  crackers,  then 
make  another  layer  of  tomatoes,  and  over  these  another 
layer  of  crumbs,  till  the  dish  is  filled.     The  top  layer 


VEGETABLES.  79 

must  be  crumbs.  Some  persons  put  nutmeg  and  sugar 
with  the  other  seasoning.  Bake  three  quarters  of  an 
hour,  or  more,  according  to  the  size. 

Another  Way. — Peel  them,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan 
with  some  salt,  boil  them  nearly  half  an  hour,  then  put 
into  them  three  or  four  beaten  eggs,  and  more  salt  if 
needed,  and  very  httle  pepper.  Many  would  add  a  few 
small  slices  of  onion.  Most  who  have  tried  this  last  are 
very  fond  of  it. 

Gy^eens. 

Beet  tops,  turnip  tops,  spinach,  cabbage  sprouts,  dan- 
delions, cowslips,  all  these  boil  in  salted  w^ater  till  they 
are  tender,  then  drain  in  a  colander,  pressing  hard. 
Chop  them  a  little,  and  warm  them  in  a  sauce-pan,  with 
a  little  butter. 

Lay  them  on  buttered  toast,  and  if  you  Hke,  garnish 
them  with  hard-boiled  egg^  cut  in  sHces.  If  not  fresh, 
soak  them  half  an  hour  in  salt  and  water. 

Ciicumhers. 

The  chief  art  of  preparing  cucumbers  consists  in  ma- 
king them  cool  and  crisp.  This  is  done  by  putting  them 
in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  and  then  cut  them  in  thin 
slices  into  cold  water.  Then  drain  them  in  a  colander, 
and  season  them  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar. 

Cucumbers  are  very  nice  cooked  in  this  way.  Peel 
and  cut  them  into  quarters,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  boil 
them  hke  asparagus.  Put  them  on  to  buttered  toast,  and 
put  a  little  butter  over  them. 

Macarofii. 

Mix  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  put  in  two  ounces  of  macaroni,  and 
boil  till  the  liquor  is  wasted  and  the  macaroni  tender. 
Put  on  butter,  or  pour  over  some  gravy.  Cut  the  mac- 
aroni in  pieces  of  three  or  four  inches,  in  order  to  help 
it  out  more  conveniently. 

Another  Way. 
Simmer  it  in  thin  gravy ;  when  tender  lay  it  in  a  dish, 


80  VEGETABLES. 

and  grate  on  it  old  cheese,  and  over  that  grated  bread. 
Pour  over  it  melt 
of  a  brown  color. 


Pour  over  it  melted  butter,  and  set  in  a  Dutch  oven  till 


To  Cook  Hominy. 

Wash  in  several  waters,  and  boil  it  five  hours,  allow 
ing  two  quarts  of  water,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
to  every  quart  of  hominy.  Drain  it  through  a  colander, 
and  add  butter  and  salt,  if  needed.  The  small-grained 
requires  less  water  and  time. 

Macaroni  Puddings  to  eat  loitli  Meat. 

Simmer  a  quarter  of  a  poimd  of  macaroni  in  plenty 
of  water,  until  it  is  tender.  Strain  off  the  water,  and 
add  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  an  ounce  of  grated  cheese, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  well  together,  and  strew 
over  the  top  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese  and  crumbs  of 
bread.  Brown  it  well,  in  baking,  on  the  top.  It  will 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  half  an  hour.  It  is  appropiiate 
to  be  eaten  with  boiled  ham,  or  forms  a  course  by  itself, 
after  meat. 

^alad. 

Salad,  to  be  in  perfection,  should  be  fresh  gathered, 
and  put  into  salted  cold  water,  which  will  remove  all  in- 
sects. Let  them  stand  half  an  hour,  and  then  drain 
them  thoroughly. 

Mode  of  Dressing  Salad. 

Take  the  yolks  of  one  oi*  two  eggs  boiled  hard,  mash 
them  fine,  mix  with  them  pepper,  salt,  mustard,  oil,  and 
vinegar  to  your  taste.  Then  cut  up  the  salad,  and  mix 
it  with  this  preparation.     This  is  usually  done  at  table. 

Mushroom. 

Cut  off  the  lower  part  of  the  stem,  peel  them,  and  put 
them  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  just  water  enough  to  prevent 
their  burning  at  the  bottom,  put  in  a  little  salt,  and  shake 
them  occasionally  w^hile  cooking,  to  prevent  burning. 
When  tender,  add  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  to  your  taste, 


VEGETABLES.  81 

and  wine  and  spice,  if  you  like  them.     Serve  them  on 
buttered  toast. 

Celeriac. 

This  is  very  good,  and  but  little  known.  It  resem- 
bles celery  in  flavor,  and  is  much  more  easily  cultivated. 
Scrape  and  cut  the  roots  in  slices.  Boil  them  very  len- 
der, drain  off  the  water,  add  a  little  salt,  and  turn  in  just 
milk  enough  to  cover  them.  Then  take  them  up  and 
add  a  httle  butter. 

Salsify,  or  Vegetable  Oyster. 

Boil  it  till  tender,  then  pour  off  the  water,  and  add  a 
little  milk,  and  a  httle  salt  and  butter. 

Another  Way. — Parboil  it,  scraping  off  the  outside,  cut 
it  in  shces,  dip  it  into  beaten  egg  and  fine  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  it  in  lard. 

Another  Way. — Make  a  batter  of  wheat  flour,  milk 
and  eggs,  and  a  little  salt.  Cut  the  salsify  in  slices  ;  af- 
ter it  is  boiled  tender,  put  it  in  the  batter,  and  drop  this 
mixture  into  hot  fat  by  the  spoonful.  Cook  them  a  light 
brown. 

Southern  Mode  of  Cooking  Rice. 

Pick  over  the  rice,  and  wash  it  in  cold  Avater.  To 
a  pint  of  rice,  put  three  quarts  of  hoili7ig  water,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  it  just  seventeen  min- 
tites  from  the  time  it  fairly  begins  to  boil.  Then  turn 
off  all  the  water,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  with 
the  lid  off,  to  steam  fifteen  minutes.  Great  care  must 
be  taken  to  be  accurate.  The  rice  water  poured  off  is 
good  to  stiffen  muslins. 

Common  Mode  of  Cooking  Rice. 

To  a  pint  of  clean  rice,  put  three  quarts  of  cold  water, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  it  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes, then  pour  off  the  water,  add  milk  and  some  cream, 
and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  longer.  It  should  not  be 
so  soft  as  to  lose  its  form. 

In  case  you  wish  to  fry  it  next  morning,  boil  it  long- 


82  VEGETABLES. 

er  in  the  water,  and  omit  the  milk,  or  not,  as  you  please. 
It  is  always  a  good  plan  to  boil  a  good  deal,  so  as  to 
have  it  next  day  for  griddle  cakes,  or  to  cut  in  slices 
and  fry. 

Best  Mode  of  Cookijig  Tomatoes. 

This  vegetable  is  much  improved  by  cooking  a  long 
time. 

Immediately  after  breakfast,  begin  by  boiling  two 
onions.  If  they  are  not  liked,  omit  this  part ;  but  it  is 
best  to  make  the  trial,  as  some  can  eat  this,  who  cannot 
take  onions  any  other  way  comfortably. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  a  dozen  large  tomatoes,  and 
peel  them.  Cut  them  into  a  stew-pan  ;  add  a  tea-cup 
and  a  half  of  bread  crumbs,  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pep- 
per, a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  four  tablespoon fu Is  of  butter, 
and  also  the  cooked  onion.  Set  them  where  they  will 
stew  very  slowly  all  the  forenoon,  the  longer  the  better. 
Fifteen  minutes  before  serving  them,  beat  up  six  eggs, 
and  add,  and  give  them  a  good  boil,  stirring  all  the  time. 
(Indiana  Receipt.) 

Sweet  Potatoes. 

The  best  way  to  cook  sweet  potatoes  is  to  bake  them 
with  their  skins  on.  When  boiled,  the  largest  should 
be  put  in  first,  so  as  to  have  all  cook  alike.  Drain  them 
and  dry  them,  then  peel  them.  They  are  excellent 
sliced  and  fried  for  breakfast  next  day  ;  much  better  than 
at  first. 

Artichokes. 

Boil  them  till  tender,  drain  them,  and  serve  them 
with  melted  butter. 

Stewed  Egg  Plant. 

Take  the  purple  kind,  stew  till  soft,  take  off  the  skin, 
mash  it  with  butter  and  sweet  herbs,  grate  bread  over 
the  top,  and  bake  it  till  brown. 


OVENS,    YEASTj    BREAD,   AND   BISCUIT.  83 


CHAPTER  X. 

OVENS,    YEAST,    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT. 

On  Constructing  and  Heating  an  Oven. 

The  best  ovens  are  usually  made  thus.  After  the 
arch  is  formed,  four  or  five  bushels  of  ashes  are  spread 
over  it,  and  then  a  covering  of  charcoal  over  that,  then 
another  layer  of  bricks  over  all.  The  use  of  this  is,  that 
the  ashes  become  heated,  and  the  charcoal  being  a  non- 
conductor, the  heat  is  retained  much  longer.  In  such 
an  oven,  cake  and  pies  can  be  baked  after  the  bread  is 
taken  out,  and  then  custards  after  them.  Sometimes 
four  bakings  are  done  in  succession. 

The  first  time  an  oven  is  used,  it  should  be  heated 
the  day  previous  for  half  a  day,  and  the  oven  lid  kept 
up  after  the  fire  is  out,  till  heated  for  baking. 

As  there  is  so  httle  discretion  to  be  found  in  those  who 
heat  ovens,  the  housekeeper  will  save  much  trouble  and 
mortification  by  this  arrangement.  Have  oven  wood 
prepared  of  sticks  of  equal  size  and  length.  Find,  by 
trial,  how  many  are  required  to  heat  the  oven,  and  then 
require  that  just  that  number  be  used,  and  no  more. 

The  fire  must  be  made  the  back  side  of  the  oven,  and 
the  oven  must  be  heated  so  hot  as  to  allow  it  to  be  clo- 
sed fifteen  minutes  after  clearing,  before  the  heat  is  redu- 
ced enough  to  use  it.  This  is  called  soaking.  If  it  is 
burnt  down  entirely  to  ashes,  the  oven  may  be  used  as 
soon  as  cleared. 

How  to  know  when  an  Oven  is  at  the  right  Heat. 

An  experienced  cook  will  know  without  rules.  For  a 
novice,  the  following  rules  are  of  some  use  in  determin- 
ing. If  the  black  spots  in  the  oven  are  not  burnt  off,  it 
is  not  hot,  as  the  bricks  must  all  look  red.  If  you  sprin- 
kle flour  on  the  bottom,  and  it  burns  quickly,  it  is  too  hot. 


84  OVENS,    TEASTj    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT. 

If  you  cannot  hold  your  hand  in  longer  than  to  count 
twenty  moderately,  it  is  hot  enough. 

If  you  can  count  thirty  moderately,  it  is  not  hot  enough 
for  bread. 

These  last  are  not  very  accurate  tests,  as  the  power  to 
bear  heat  is  so  diverse  in  different  persons  ;  but  they  are 
as  good  rules  as  can  be  given,  where  there  has  been  no 
experience. 

Hoio  to  know  lohen  Bread  is  Sour,  or  Heavy. 

If  the  bread  is  sour,  on  opening  it  quick  and  deeply 
Vvith  your  fingers,  and  applying  the  nose  to  the  opening, 
a  tingling  and  sour  odor  escapes.  This  is  remedied  by 
taking  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  for  every  four  quarts 
of  flour,  very  thoroughly  dissolved  in  hot  water,  which  is 
to  be  put  in  a  hole  made  in  the  middle,  and  very  thorough- 
ly kneaded  in,  or  there  will  be  yellow  streaks. 

If  the  bread  is  light  and  not  sour,  it  will,  on  opening 
it  deep  and  suddenly,  send  forth  a  pungent  and  brisk, 
but  not  a  sour  odor,  and  it  will  look  full  of  holes,  hke 
sponge.  Some  may  mistake  the  smell  of  light  bread  for 
that  of  sour  bread,  but  a  little  practice  will  show  the  dif- 
ference very  plainly. 

If  tlie  bread  is  light  before  the  oven  is  ready,  knead  it 
a  httle  without  adding  flour,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 

If  it  rises  too  tnuch.  it  loses  all  sweetness,  and  noth- 
ing but  care  and  experience  will  prevent  this.  The  best 
of  flour  will  not  make  sweet  bread,  if  it  is  allowed  to  rise 
too  muchj  even  when  no  sourness  is  induced. 

Hoxo  to  treat  Bread  when  taken  from  the  Oven. 

Never  set  it  fiat  on  a  table,  as  it  sweats  the  bottom, 
and  acquires  a  bad  taste  from  the  table. 

Always  take  it  out  of  the  tins,  and  set  it  up  end  way, 
leaning  against  something. 

If  it  has  a  thick,  hard  crust,  wrap  it  in  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  cold  water. 

Keep  it  in  a  tin  box,  in  a  cool  place,  where  it  will  not 
freeze. 


OVENS,    YEASTj    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT.  "       85 

"Yeast. 

The  article  in  which  yeast  is  kept  must,  when  new 
yeast  is  made,  or  fresh  yeast  bought,  be  scalded  and 
emptied,  and  then  have  a  salt  spoonful  of  saleratus  put 
in,  and  be  rinsed  out  again  with  warm  water.  If  it  is  glass, 
rinsing  twice  with  warm  water  will  answer.  Junk  bot- 
tles are  best  for  holding  yeast,  because  they  can  be  cork- 
ed tight,  and  easily  cleansed. 

Potato  Yeast. 

By  those  Avho  use  potato  yeast,  it  is  regarded  as  much 
the  best,  as  it  raises  bread  quicker  than  common  home- 
brewed yeast,  and,  best  of  all,  never  imparts  the  sharp, 
disagreeable  yeast  taste  to  bread  or  cake,  often  given  by 
hop  yeast. 

Mash  half  a  dozen  peeled  boiled  potatoes,  and  mix  in 
a  handful  of  wheat  flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
and  after  putting  it  through  a  colander,  add  hot  water 
till  it  is  a  batter.  When  blood  warm,  put  in  half  a  tea- 
cup of  distillery  yeast,  or  twice  as  much  potato,  or  other 
home-brew^ed.  When  raised,  keep  it  corked  tight,  and 
make  it  new  very  often  in  hot  weather.  It  can  easily 
be  made  w4ien  potatoes  are  boiled  for  dinner. 

Home-made  Yeast,  u'hich  will  keep  Good  a  Month. 

Four  quarts  of  water,  two  handfuls  of  hops,  eight 
peeled  potatoes,  sliced,  all  boiled  soft,  mixed  and  strain- 
ed through  a  sieve.  To  this,  add  a  batter,  made  one- 
third  of  Indian,  and  two-thirds  of  rye,  in  a  pint  of  cold 
water,  and  then  boil  the  whole  ten  minutes.  When 
cool  as  new  milk,  add  a  tea-cup  of  molasses,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  and  a  tea-cup  of  distillery  yeast,  or 
twice  as  much  home-brewed. 

Hoine-hrewed  Yeast  more  easily  made. 

Boil  a  handful  of  hops  half  an  hour  in  three  pints  of 
water.  Pour  half  of  it,  boiling  hot,  through  a  sieve,  on 
to  nine  spoonfuls  of  flour,  mix,  and  then  add  the  rest 
of  the  hop  water.  Add  a  spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  cup  of 
molasses,  and  when  blood  toarm,  a  cup  of  yeast. 

8 


86  OVENS,    YEAST,    BREAD,    AND   BISCUIT. 

Hard  yeast. 

This  often  is  very  convenient,  especially  for  hot  weath- 
er, when  it  is  difficult  to  keep  yeast. 

Take  some  of  the  best  yeast  you  can  make,  and  thick- 
en it  with  Indian  meal,  and  if  you  have  rye,  add  a  little 
to  make  it  adhere  better.  Make  it  into  cakes  an  inch 
thick,  and  three  inches  by  two  in  size,  and  dry  it  in  a 
drying  wind,  but  not  it  the  sun.  Keep  it  tied  in  a  bag, 
in  a  dry,  cool  place,  where  it  will  not  freeze. 

One  of  these  cakes  is  enough  for  four  quarts  of  flour. 
When  you  wish  to  use  it,  put  it  to  soak  in  milk  or  wa- 
ter for  several  hours,  and  then  use  it  like  other  yeast. 

Rubs,  or  Flour  Hard  Yeast. 

This  is  better  than  hard  yeast  made  with  Indian. 

Take  two  quarts  of  best  home-brewed  yeast,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  mix  in  wheat  flour,  so  that  it 
will  be  in  hard  lumps.  Set  it  in  a  dry,  warm  place  (but 
not  in  the  sun)  till  quite  dry.  Then  leave  out  the  fine 
parts  to  use  the  next  baking,  and  put  up  the  lumps  in 
a  bag,  and  hang  it  in  a  dry  place. 

In  using  this  yeast,  take  a  pint  of  the  rubs  for  six 
quarts  of  flour,  and  let  it  soak  from  noon  till  night. 
Then  wet  up  the  bread  to  bake  next  day. 

Brewer's  and  distillery  yeast  cannot  be  trusted  to  make 
hard  yeast.  Home-brewed  is  the  best,  and  some  house- 
keepers say,  the  only  yeast  for  this  purpose. 

Milk  Yeast. 

One  pint  of  new  milk,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  fine  salt. 
One  large  spoonful  of  flour.  Mix,  and  keep  it  blood 
warm  an  hour.  Use  twice  as  much  as  the  common 
yeast.     Bread  soon  spoils  made  of  this. 

Wheat  Bread  of  Distillery^  or  Breiver^s  Yeast. 

Take  eight  quarts  of  flour,  and  two  of  milk,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  gill  and  a  half  of  distillery  yeast,  and 
sometimes  rather  more,  if  not  first  rate.  Take  double 
the  quantity  of  home-brewed  yeast. 


OVENS,    YEAST,    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT.  87 

Sift  the  flour,  then  make  an  opening  in  the  middle, 
pour  in  a  part  of  the  wetting,  and  put  in  the  salt.  Then 
mix  in  a  good  part  of  the  flour.  Then  pour  in  the  yeast, 
and  mix  it  well,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  wetting,  using 
up  the  flour  so  as  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  it  half 
an  hour,  till  it  cleaves  clean  from  the  hand. 

This  cannot  be  wet  over  night,  as,  if  the  yeast  is  good, 
it  will  lise  in  one  or  two  hours. 

Some  persons  like  bread  best  wet  with  water,  but  most 
very  much  prefer  bread  wet  with  milk.  If  you  have 
skimmed  milk,  warm  it  with  a  small  bit  of  butter,  and 
it  is  nearly  as  good  as  new  milk. 

You  need  about  a  quart  of  wetting  to  four  quarts  of 
flour.  Each  quart  of  flour  makes  a  common-sized 
loaf 

TV/ieat  Bread  of  Home-hreiced  Yeast. 

Sift  eight  quarts  of  flour  into  the  kneading  tray,  make 
a  deep  hole  in  the  middle,  pour  into  it  a  pint  of  yeast, 
mixed  with  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water,  and  then  work 
up  this  with  the  surrounding  flour,  till  it  makes  a  thick 
batter.  Then  scatter  a  handful  of  flour  over  this  bat- 
ter, lay  a  warm  cloth  over  the  whole,  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place.     This  is  called  sponge. 

AVhen  the  sponge  is  risen  so  as  to  make  cracks  in  the 
flour  over  it  (which  will  be  in  from  three  to  five  hours), 
then  scatter  over  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  and  put  in 
about  two  quarts  of  wetting,  warm,  but  not  hot  enough  to 
scald  the  yeast,  and  sufficient  to  wet  it.  Be  careful  not 
to  put  in  too  much  of  the  wetting  at  once. 

Knead  the  whole  thoroughly  for  as  much  as  half  an 
hour,  then  form  it  into  a  round  mass,  scatter  a  little  flour 
over  it,  cover  it,  and  set  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  It 
usually  will  take  about  one  quart  of  wetting  to  four 
quarts  of  flour. 

In  winter,  it  is  best  to  put  the  bread  in  sponge  over 
night,  Avhen  it  must  be  kept  warm  all  night.  In  sum- 
mer it  can  be  put  in  sponge  early  in  the  morning,  for  if 
made  over  night,  it  would  become  sour. 


^8  OVENS,    YEASTj    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT. 

Bakefs  Bread. 

Take  a  gill  of  distillery  yeast,  or  twice  as  much  fresh 
home-brewed  yeast,  add  a  quart  of  warm  (not  hot)  wa- 
ter, and  flour  enough  to  mnke  a  thin  batter,  and  let  it 
rise  in  a  warm  place  all  night.     This  is  the  sponge. 

Next  day,  put  seven  quarts  of  sifted  flour  into  the 
kneading  tray,  make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  and  pour  in 
the  sponge.  Then  dissolve  a  bit  of  volatile  salts,  and  a 
bit  of  alum,  each  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  and  finely 
powdered,  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  add  it,  with  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  salt,  to  the  sponge,  and  also  a  c^uart 
more  of  blood- w^arm  water. 

Work  up  the  flour  and  wetting  to  a  dough,  knead  it 
Avell,  divide  it  into  three  or  four  loaves,  prick  it  with  a 
fork,  put  it  in  buttered  pans,  and  let  it  rise  one  hour,  and 
then  bake  it  about  an  hour.  Add  more  flour,  or  more 
water,  as  you  find  the  dough  too  stiff",  or  too  soft. 

A.teaspoonful  of  saleratus  can  be  used  instead  of  the 
volatile  salts  and  alum,  but  it  is  not  so  good. 

Wheat  Bread  of  Potato  Yeast. 

This  is  made  like  bread  made  wdth  home-brewed 
yeast,  except  that  you  may  put  in  almost  any  quantity 
of  the  potato  yeast  without  injury.  Those  who  use  po- 
tato yeast  like  it  much  better  than  any  other.  The 
only  objection  to  it  is,  that  in  summer  it  must  be  made 
often,  as  it  will  not  keep  sweet  long.  But  it  is  very 
easily  renewed.  I'he  chief  advantage  is,  that  it  rises 
quick,  and  never  gives  the  sharp  and  peculiar  taste  so 
often  imparted  to  bread  and  cake  by  all  yeast  made  with 
hops. 

Potato  Bread. 

Rub  a  dozen  peeled  and  boiled  potatoes  through  a  very 
coarse  sieve,  and  mix  Avith  them  twice  the  quantity  of 
flour,  mixing  very  thoroughly.  Put  in  a  coflee-cup  full 
of  home-brewed,  or  of  potato  yeast,  or  half  as  much  of  dis- 
tillery yeast,  also  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Add  whatever 
water  may  be  needed  to  make  a  dough  as  stiff  as  for 
common  flour  bread. 


OVENS,    YEAST,    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT.  89 

An  ounce  or  two  of  butter  rubbed  into  the  flour,  and 
an  egg  beat  and  put  into  the  yeast,  and  you  can  have 
fine  rolls,  or  warm  cakes  for  breakfast. 

This  kind  of  bread  is  very  moist,  and  keeps  well. 

CreaTTi  Tartar  Bread. 

Three  pints  of  dried  flour,  measured  after  sifting. 

Two  cups  of  milk. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  teaspoonful  of  soda  (Super  Carbonate). 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  half  a  tea-cup  of  hot  water,  and 
put  it  with  the  salt  into  the  milk.  Mix  the  cream  tar- 
tar very  thoroughly  in  the  flour :  the  whole  success  de- 
pends on  this.  Just  as  you  are  ready  to  bake,  pour  in 
the  milk,  knead  it  up  sufficiently  to  mix  it  well,  and 
then  put  it  in  the  oven  as  quick  as  possible.  Add  either 
more  flour  or  more  wetting,  if  needed,  to  make  dough  to 
mould.  Work  in  half  a  cup  of  butter  after  it  is  wet,  and 
it  makes  good  short  biscuit. 

Eastern  Brown  Bread. 

One  quart  of  rye. 

Two  quarts  of  Indian  meal :  if  fresh  and  sweet,  do  not 
scald  it ;   if  not,  scald  it. 

Half  a  tea-cup  of  molasses. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

One  teaspoonful  of  saleratus. 

A  tea-cup  of  home-brewed  yeast,  or  half  as  much  dis- 
tillery yeast.    . 

Make  it  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon  with 
warm  water.  Let  it  rise  from  night  till  morning.  Then 
put  it  in  a  large  deep  pan,  and  smooth  the  top  with  the 
hand  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  a  while.  Bake 
five  or  six  hours.  If  put  in  late  in  the  day,  let  it  remain 
all  night  in  the  oven. 

Rye  Bread. 
A  quart  of  water,  and  as  much  milk. 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  a  tea-cup  of  Indian 
meal. 


r 


90  OVENS,   YEAST,   BREAD,    AND   BISCUIT. 

A  tea-cup  full  of  home-brewed  yeast,  or  half  as  much 
distillery  yeast. 

Make  it  as  stiff  as  wheat  bread,  with  rye  flour. 

Rice  Bread. — No.  1. 

One  pint  of  rice,  boiled  till  soft. 
Two  quarts  of  rice  flour,  or  wheat  flour. 
A  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

A  tea-cup  of  home-brewed,  or  half  as  much  distillery 
yeast. 

Milk  to  make  it  so  as  to  mould  like  wheat  bread. 

Rice  Bread. — No,  2. 

.,  Three  half  pints  of  ground  rice. 
.    Two  teaspoonfuls  (not  heaping)  of  salt. 

Two  gills  of  home-brewed  yeast. 

Three  quarts  of  milk,  or  milk  and  water.  Mix  the- 
rice  with  cold  milk  and  water  to  a  thin  gruel,  and  boil 
it  three  minutes.  Then  stir  in  wheat  flour  till  as 
stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon.  When  blood  warm, 
add  the  yeast.     This  keeps  moist  longer  than  No.  1. 

Bread  of  Unbolted  Wheat,  or  Graham  Bread. 

Three  pints  of  warm  water^ 

One  tea-cup  of  Indian  meal,  and  one  of  wheat  flour. 

Three  great  spoonfuls  of  molasses,  or  a  tea-cup  of 
brown  sugar. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salera- 
tus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water. 

One  tea-cup  of  yeast. 

Mix  the  above,  and  stir  in  enough  unbolted  wheat 
flour  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  you  can  work  with  a  spoon. 
Some  put  in  enough  to  mould  it  to  loaves.  Try  both. 
If  made  with  home-brewed  yeast,  put  it  to  rise  over 
night.  If  with  distillery  yeast,  make  it  in  the  morning, 
and  bake  when  light. 

In  loaves  the  ordinary  size,  bake  one  hour  and  a  half 

Apple  Bread. 
Mix  stewed  and  strained  apple,  or  grated  apple  un- 


OVENS,    YEAST,    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT.  91 

cooked,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  wheat  flour ;  add 
yeast  enough  to  raise  it,  and  mix  sugar  with  the  apple, 
enough  to  make  it  quite  sweet.  Make  it  in  loaves,  and 
bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  like  other  bread. 

Pumpkin  Bread, 

Stew  and  strain  some  pumpkin,  stiffen  it  with  Indian 
meal,  add  salt  and  yeast,  and  it  makes  a  most  excellent 
kind  of  bread. 

Walnut  HilVs  Brown  Bread. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  saleratus,  and  one  tea- 
cup of  molasses  put  into  the  milk. 

Thicken  with  unbolted  wheat,  and  bake  immediately, 
and  you  have  first-rate  bread,  with  very  little  trouble. 

French  Rolls,  or  Tioists. 

One  quart  of  lukewarm  milk. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

A  large  tea-cup  of  home-brewed  yeast,  or  half  as  much 
distillery  yeast. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Set  it  to  rise,  and  when  very  light,  work  in  one  egg  and 
two  spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  knead  in  flour  till  stiff 
enough  to  roll. 

Let  it  rise  again,  and  when  very  light,  roll  out,  cut  in 
strips,  and  braid  it.  Bake  thirty  minutes  on  buttered 
tins. 

Raised  Biscuit. 

Rub  half  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  pound  of  flour. 

One  beaten  egg. 

A  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Two  great  spoonfuls  of  distillery  yeast,  or  twice  as 
much  home-brewed. 

Wet  it  up  with  enough  warm  milk  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  and  then  work  in  half  a  pound  of  butter.  When 
hght,  mould  it  into  round  cakes,  or  roll  it  out  and  cut  it 
with  a  tumbler. 


92-  OVENS,    YEAST,    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT. 

Yery  Nice  Rusk, 

One  pint  of  milk. 

One  coffee-cup  of  yeast.     (Potato  is  best.) 

Four  eggs. 

Flour  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  you  can  stir  with 
a  spoon. 

Let  it  rise  till  very  light,  but  be  sure  it  is  not  sour; 
if  it  is,  work  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved 
in  a  wine-glass  of  warm  water. 

When  thus  light,  work  together  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  and  nine  ounces  of  butter ;  add  more 
flour,  if  needed,  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  mould.  Let 
it  rise  again,  and  when  very  hght,  mould  it  into  small 
cakes.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven,  and  after 
taking  it  out,  mix  a  little  milk  and  sugar,  and  brush 
over  the  rusk,  while  hot,  with  a  small  swab  of  hnen  tied 
to  a  stick,  and  dry  it  in  the  oven.  When  you  have 
weighed  these  proportions  once,  then  measure  the  quan- 
tity, so  as  to  save  the  trouble  of  weighing  afterward. 
Write  the  measures  in  your  receipt-book,  lest  you  forget. 

Potato  Biscuit. 

Twelve  pared  potatoes,  boiled  soft  and  mashed  fine, 
and  two  teaspoon fuls  of  salt. 

Mix  the  potatoes  and  milk,  add  half  a  tea-cup  of  yeast, 
and  flour  enough  to  mould  them  well.  Then  work 
in  a  cup  of  butter.  When  risen,  mould  them  into  small 
cakes,  then  let  them  stand  in  buttered  pans  fifteen  min- 
utes before  baking. 

Crackers. 

One  quart  of  flour,  with  two  ounces  of  butter  rubbed  in. 

One  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  a  wine-glass  of  warm 
water. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  milk  enough  to  roll  it 
out. 

Beat  it  half  an  hour  with  a  pestle,  cut  it  in  thin  round 
cakes,  prick  them,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  when  other 
things  are  taken  out.     Let  them  bake  till  crisp. 


OVENS,    YEAST,    BREAD,    AND    BISCUIT.  93 

Hard  Biscuit, 

One  quart  of  flour,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Four  great  spoonfuls  of  butter,  rubbed  into  two-thirds 
of  the  flour. 

Wet  it  up  with  milk  till  a  dough  ;  roll  it  out  again 
and  again,  sprinkling  on  the  reserved  flour,  till  all  is 
used.  Cut  into  round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
on  buttered  tins. 

Sour  Milk  Biscuit. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  four  great 
spoonfuls  of  hot  water. 

Mix  the  milk  in  flour  till  nearly  stiff  enough  to  roll, 
then  put  in  the  saleratus,  and  add  more  flour.  Mould 
up  quickly,  and  bake  immediately. 

Shortening  for  raised  biscuit  or  cake  should  always  be 
worked  in  after  it  is  wet  up. 

A  good  Way  to  iise  Sour  Bread. 

When  a  batch  of  bread  is  sour,  let  it  stand  till  very 
light,  and  use  it  to  make  biscuit  for  tea  or  breakfast, 
thus  : 

Work  into  a  portion  of  it,  saleratus  dissolved  in  warm 
water,  enough  to  sweeten  it,  and  a  little  shortening,  and 
mould  it  into  small  biscuits,  bake  it,  and  it  is  uncom- 
monly good.  It  is  so  much  liked  that  some  persons  allow 
bread  to  turn  sour  for  the  purpose.  Bread  can  be  kept 
on  hand  for  this  use  any  length  of  time. 


04  BREAKFAST   AND    TEA   CAKES. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

BREAKFAST   AND    TEA   CAKES. 

General  Directions  for  Griddle  and  other  Break- 
fast Cakes. 

The  best  method  of  greasing-  a  griddle  is,  to  take  a 
bit  of  salt  pork,  and  rub  over  with  a  fork.  This  pre- 
vents adhesion,  and  yet  does  not  allow  the  fat  to  soak 
into  what  is  to  be  cooked. 

In  putting  cakes  on  to  griddles,  be  careful  to  form 
them  a  regular  round  shape,  and  put  on  only  one  at 
each  dip,  and  so  as  not  to  spill  between  the  cakes. 

In  frying  mush,  cold  rice  slices,  and  hominy  cakes, 
cut  them  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  in  fresh  lard,  with 
enough  to  brown  them  handsomely.  Make  the  slices 
smooth  and  regular. 

Buckwheat  Cakes  wet  loith  Water. 

Take  a  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  and  nearly  an  even 
tablespoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in  warm  water,  till  it  is  ihe 
consistency  of  thin  batter.  Beat  it  thoroughly.  Add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  if  distillery,  or  twice  as  much 
if  home-brewed. 

Set  the  batter  where  it  will  be  a  little  Avarm  through 
the  night.  Some  persons  never  stir  them  after  they  have 
risen,  but  take  them  out  carefully  with  a  large  spoon. 

Add  a  teaspoonful  of  pearlash  in  the  morning,  if  they 
are  sour.     Sift  it  over  the  surface,  and  stir  it  well. 

Some  persons  like  to  add  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
molasses,  to  give  them  a  brown  color,  and  more  sweet- 
ness of  taste. 

Extempore  Buckicheat  Cakes, 

Three  pints  of  buckAvheat. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  95 

One  teaspoonful  carbonate  of  soda,  dissolved  in  watei 
enough  to  make  a  batter,  and  when  mixed,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  tartaric  acid,  dissolved  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
hot  water.     Mix  it  in,  and  bake  immediately. 

Use  salt  pork  to  grease  the  griddle. 

Biickioheat  Cakes  xoet  with  Milk. 

One  quart  of  flour,  and  in  winter  stir  in  lukewarm 
milk,  till  it  is  a  thin  batter,  and  beat  it  thoroughly,  ad- 
ding nearly  an  even  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

Add  a  small  tea-cup  of  Indian  meal,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  distillery  yeast,  or  a  good  deal  more  if  home-brew- 
ed ;  say  half  a  tea-cup  full.  Set  it  where  it  will  keep 
warm  all  night,  and  in  the  morning  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus,  sifted  over  the  top,  and  well  stirred  in.  If 
sour,  add  more  saleratus.  This  is  the  best  kind  of  buck- 
wheat cakes. 

Griddle  Cakes  of  Unbolted  Wheat. 

A  quart  of  unbolted  wheat,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Wet  it  up  with  water,  or  sweet  milk,  in  which  is  dis- 
solved a  teaspoonful  of  Scileratus.  Add  three  spoonfuls 
of  molasses.  Some  raise  this  with  yeast,  and  leave  out 
the  saleratus.  Sour  milk  and  saleratus  are  not  as  good 
for  unbolted  as  for  fine  flour. 

These  are  better  and  more  healthful  cakes  than 
buckwheat. 

Best  Rice  Griddle  Cakes. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  solid  cold  boiled  rice,  put  the 
night  before  in  a  pint  of  water  or  milk  to  soak. 

One  quart  of  milk,  added  the  next  morning. 

One  quart  of  flour  stirred  into  the  rice  and  milk. 

Two  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water. 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt.     Bake  on  a  griddle. 

Stale,  or  rusked  bread  in  fine  crumbs,  are  very  nice 
made  into  griddle  cakes  by  the  above  rule  ;  or  they  cau 


96  BREAKFAST   AND   TEA    CAKES. 

be  mixed  with  the  rice.     The  rice  must  be  well  salted 
when  boiled. 

A  verii  delicate  Omelet. 

Six  eggs,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the 
yolks  well  iDeaten. 

A  tea-cup  full  of  warm  milk,  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  melted  ia  it. 

A  tablespoonful  of  flour,  wet  to  a  paste  with  a  little 
of  the  milk  ajid  poured  to  the  milk. 

A  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper. 

Mix  all  except  the  whites ;  add  those  last ;  bake  im- 
mediately, in  a  fiat  pan,  or  spider,  on  coals,  and  when 
the  bottom  is  done,  raise  it  up  towards  the  fire,  and  bake 
the  top,  or  cover  with  an  iron  sheet,  and  put  coals  on  it. 
The  remnants  of  ham,  cut  fine  and  added,  improve 
tbis.  Some  like  sweet  herbs  added,  and  some  fine-cut 
onion. 

Wheat  Waffles. 

One  quart  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  quart  of  milk,  with ;  ^olespoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter in  it,  and  mixed  with  cixe  flour  gradually,  so  as  not 
to  have  lumps. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  distillery  yeast.  When  rais- 
ed, two  well-beaten  eggs. 

Bake  in  Avafile  irons  well  oiled  with  lard  each  time 
they  are  used.  Lay  one  side  on  coals,  and  in  about  two 
minutes  turn  the  other  side  to  the  coals. 

Miss  B.^s  Waffles  {loithout  yeast). 

One  quart  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  melted  in  it. 

Five  well-beaten  eggs.  A  teaspoonful  or  more  of  sal- 
eratus,  enough  to  sweeten  the  milk.  Baked  in  waffle 
irons. 

Some  like  one  tea-cup  full  of  sugar  added. 

Rice  Waffles, 
A  quart  of  milk. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  97 

A  tea-cup  of  solid  boiled  riccj  soaked  three  hours  in 
half  the  milk. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  wheat  flour,  or  rice  flour. 
Three  well-beaten  eggs.     Bake  in  waflfle  irons. 
The  rice  must  be  salted  enough  when  boiled. 

Good  Cakes  for  Tea,  or  Breakfast,  '" 

One  pint  of  milk,  and  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt. 

One  teaspoonful  of  molasses,  and  a  great  spoonful  of 
butter. 

One  Q^g  well  beaten,  and  two  tablespoon fuls  of  dis- 
tillery yeast,  or  twice  as  much  home-brewed. 

Stir  the  ingredients  into  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter. 

Let  it  rise  all  night,  or  if  for  tea^  about  five  hours. 
Add  a  salt  spoonful  of  saleratus  just  before  baking  it,  dis- 
solved in  w^arm  water. 

Bake  in  shallow  pans,  in  a  quick  oven,  half  an  hour. 

Fried  Rice  for  Breakfast. 

Boil  the  rice  quite  soft  the  day  before,  so  that  it  will 
adhere  well.  For  breakfast,  cut  it  in  slices  an  inch  thick, 
cook  it  on  a  griddle,  with  enough  sweet  lard  to  fiy  it 
brown.     Cold  mush  is  good  in  the  same  way. 

It  nmst  be  salted  properly  when  boihng. 

Fried  Hominy. 

'  When  cold  hominy  is  left  of  the  previous  day,  it  is  very 
good  wet  up  with  an  egg  and  a  Uttle  flour,  and  fried. 

Rye  Drop  Cake  {excellent). 

One  pint  of  milk,  and  three  eggs. 
A  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt. 
Stir  in  rye  flour,  till  about  the  consistency  of  pancakes. 
Bake  in  buttered  cups,  or  saucers,  half  an  liour. 

Wheat  Drop  Cake. 

One  pint  of  milk,  and  a  httle  cream. 
Three  eggs,  and  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt. 

1) 


98  BREAKFAST    AND    TEA    CAKES. 

With  these  materials  make  a  thick  batter  of  wheat 
flour,  or  unbolted  flour.  Drop  on  tins,  and  bake  about 
twenty  minutes.  If  unbolted  flour  is  used,  add  a  great 
spoonful  of  molasses. 

,^  Corn  Griddle  Cakes  with  Yeast. 

'     Three  coffee-cups  of  Indian  meal,  sifted. 

One  coffee-cup  of  either  rye  meal,  Graham  flour,  or 
fine  flour. 

Two  tablcspoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  a  salt  spoonful  of 
salt. 

Wet  at  night  with  sour  milk  or  water,  as  thick  as  pan- 
cakes, and  in  the  morning  add  one  teaspoonful  of  pearl- 
ash. 

Bake  on  a  griddle.  If  Graham  flour  is  used,  add  a 
very  little  molasses. 

Pilgr  17)1  Cahe. 

Rub  two  spoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  quart  of  flour,  and 
wet  it  to  dough  with  cold  water.  Rake  open  a  place 
in  the  hottest  part  of  the  hearth,  roll  out  the  dough  into 
a  cake  an  inch  thick,  flour  it  well  both  sides,  and  lay 
it  on  hot  ashes.  Cover  it  with  hot  ashes,  and  then 
with  coals.  When  cooked,  wipe  off  the  ashes,  and  it 
will  be  very  sweet  and  good. 

The  Kentucky  corn  cake,  and  common  dough,  can 
be  baked  the  same  way.  This  method  was  used  b^ 
our  pilgrim  and  pioneer  forefathers. 

Sour  Milk  Corn  Cake. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk. 

A  large  teaspoonful  of  pearlash. 

A  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  the  milk  into  the  meal  enough  to  make  a  stiff  bat- 
ter, over  night.  In  the  morning  dissolve  the  pearlash  in 
warm  water.  Stir  it  up  quickly,  and  bake  it  in  shallow 
pans. 

If  the  milk  is  sweet,  it  should  be  made  sour  by  adding 
to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 


i 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  99 

Corn  Mifjfms  (from  the  JSoiith). 

One  pint  of  sifted  meal,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard. 

A  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  in  two  great  spoonfuls  of 
hot  water. 

Wet  the  above  with  sour  milk,  as  thick  as  for  mush  or 
hasty  pudding,  and  bake  in  buttered  rings  on  a  buttered 
tin. 

Corn  Gj'iddle  Cakes  with  Eggs. 

Turn  one  quart  of  boiling  milk,  or  water,  on  to  a  pint 
of  Indian  meal. 

When  lukewarm,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake 
on  a  griddle. 

Sachaii's  Head  Corn  Cake. 

One  quart  sifted  Indian  meal,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt. 

Three  pints  of  scalded  milk  cooled^  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  two  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  and 
put  into  it. 

Beat  eight  eggs,  and  mix  all  together.  Bake  one 
hour  in  pans,  like  sponge  cake. 

It  looks,  when  broken,  like  sponge  cake,  and  is  very 
fine.  If  the  whites  are  cut  to  a  froth,  and  put  in,  just  as  it 
goes  to  bake,  it  improves  it  very  much.  Some  think 
this  improved  by  adding  a  tea-cup  of  sugar.  Much  de- 
pends on  the  baking,  and  if  you  fail,  it  is  probably 
owing  to  the  baking. 

Royal  Crum.j)ets. 

Three  tea-cups  of  raised  dough. 
Four  great  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  worked  into  the 
dough. 

Three  well-beaten  eggs. 

One  tea-cup  of  rolled  sugar,  beaten  into  the  eggs. 
Turn  it  into  buttered  pans,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 
Some  like  them  better  without  the  sugar. 


100  BREAKFAST   AND    TEA   CAKES. 

Bachelor's  Corn  Cake. 

A  pint  of  sifted  corn  meal,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Two  spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
cream. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten. 

Add  milk,  till  it  is  a  thin  fritter  batter,  and  bake  in 
deep  tin  pans.  Beat  it  well,  and  bake  with  a  quick 
heat,  and  it  rises  like  pound  cake. 

Mis.  W.'s  Corn  Cake. 

One  pint  of  milk,  and  one  pint  of  cream. 

Two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

A  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water. 

Indian  meal,  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

Throw  the  salt  into  the  meal.  Then  stir  in  the  milk 
and  cream  slowly.  Beat  the  eggs,  and  add  them.  Add 
the  saleratus  last.  Bake  it  one  hour  in  shallow  pans, 
well  buttered. 

Corn  Muffins. 

One  quart  of  Indian  meal,  sifted. 

A  heaping  spoonful  of  butter. 

One  quart  of  milk,  and  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  distillery  yeast,  and  one  of  mo- 
lasses. 

Let  it  rise  four  or  five  hours.     Bake  in  muffin  rings. 

The  same  will  answer  to  bake  in  shallow  pans,  like 
corn  cake.     Bake  one  hour. 

Graham,  or  unbolted  flour,  is  good  made  by  this  re- 
ceipt. 

Savoy  Biscuit. 

Beat  six  eggs  into  one  pound  of  sugar,  until  white. 
Grate  the  outside  of  a  lemon  into  it,  mix  in  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  flour,  and  drop  them  on  buttered  paper, 
a  spoonful  at  a  time. 

Cream  Cakes. 
One  quart  of  cream. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  101 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 
One  salt  spoon  of  salt. 

A  wine-glass  of  distillery  yeast,  or  twice  as  much 
home-brewed. 

When  quite  light,  bake  in  cups,  or  muffin  rings. 

Wheat  Muffins. 

One  pint  of  milk,  and  two  eggs. 

One  tablespoonful  of  yeast,  and  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt. 

Mix  these  ingredients  with  sufficient  flour  to  make  a 
thick  batter.  Let  it  rise  four  or  five  hours,  and  bake  in 
muffin  rings.  This  can  be  made  of  unbolted  flour,  ad- 
ding two  great  spoonfuls  of  molasses,  and  it  is  very  fine. 

Albany  Breakfast  Cakes. 

Ten  well-beaten  eggs. 

Three  pints  of  milk,  blood  warm. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt. 

A  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a  spoonful 
of  hot  water. 

Make  a  thick  batter  with  white  Indian  meal,  and 
bake  in  buttered  tins,  an  inch  thick  when  put  in.  Bake 
thirty  or  forty  minutes,  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sally  Lunn. 

Seven  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Half  a  tea-cup  of  butter,  warmed  in  a  pint  of  milk. 

One  salt  spoonful  of  salt,  and  three  well-beaten  eggs. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  brewer's  yeast.  If  the  yeast  is 
home-made,  use  twice  as  much. 

Pour  this  into  square  pans,  to  rise,  and  then  bake  it 
before  it  sours. 

With  brewer's,  or  distillery  yeast,  it  will  rise  in  two  or 
three  hours,  and  must  not  ho,  made  over  night.     With 
home-brewed  yeast,  it  rises  in  four  or  five  hours. 
« 

Cream  Tea  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

9* 


102  BREAKFAST   AND    TEA    CAKES. 

One  pint  of  sour  cream,  and  half  a  tea-cup  of  melted 
butter. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  in  a  spoonful  of  hot 
water. 

Mix  hghtly  in  dough,  to  mould  in  small  cakes  and 
bake  in  bul  tered  tins. 

Buttermilk  Short  Cakes. 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Rub  in  two  tea-cups  full  of  soft  butter,  or  lard,  or  beef 
drippings. 

Work  it  up  into  a  paste,  with  sour  milk  or  butter- 
milk, and  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dis- 
solved in  a  spoonful  of  hot  water. 

Make  a  soft  dough,  and  mould  it  into  cakes,  and  bake 
it  in  buttered  tins.  If  the  shortening  is  fresh,  add  an- 
other teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Wafers. 

Two  tablespoon fuls  of  rolled  white  sugar. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

One  coffee-cup  of  flour,  and  essence  of  lemon,  or  rose 
water  to  flavor. 

Add  milk  enough  for  a  thick  batter,  bake  in  wafer 
irons,  buttered,  and  then  strew  on  white  sugar. 

Pennsylvania  Flannel  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  milk,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Three  eggs,  the  whites  beaten  sepaiately  to  a  stiff 
froth. 

Mix  the  milk,  salt,  and  yolks,  stir  in  flour  till  a  bat- 
ter is  made,  suitable  for  griddle  cakes.  Then,  when 
ready  to  bake,  stir  in  the  whites. 

Rye  flour  is  very  fine,  used  in  this  way,  instead  of 
wheat,  but  the  cakes  adhere  so  much  that  it  is  difficult 
to  bake  them.  Many  love  them  much  better  than  the 
wheat. 

Kentucky  Corn  Dodgers. 

Three  pints  of  unsifted  yellow  corn  meal. 


BREAKFAST   AND    TEA    CAKES.  103 

One  tablespoon ful  (heaped)  of  lard. 
One  pint  of  milk. 

Work  it  well,  and  bake  in  cakes  the  size  of  the  hand, 
and  an  inch  thick. 

Ohio  Corn  Cake. 

One  pint  of  thick  sour  cream,  and  one  quart  of  milk, 
or  buttermilk.  If  cream  cannot  be  got,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  lard,  or  butter. 

Dissolve  enough  saleratus  in  the  above  to  sweeten  it, 
and  thicken  with  yellow  corn  meal  to  the  consistency  of 
pound  cake.  Put  it  in  buttered  pans,  an  inch  thick,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Scarborough  Puffs. 

Take  one  pint  of  new  milk,  and  boil  it.  Take  out 
one  cup  full,  and  stir  into  it  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick 
batter.  Pour  this  into  the  boili?ig  milk.  Stir  and  boil 
until  the  whole  is  thick  enough  to  hold  a  silver  spoon 
standing  upright.  Then  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  stir 
in  six  eggs,  one  by  one.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
less  than  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Drop  them  by  the 
spoonful  into  boiling  lard,  and  fry  like  doughnuts. 
Grate  on  the  outside  sugar  and  spice. — (Maine  Receipt.) 

Cream  Gi^iddle  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  a  pint  of  milk. 

Three  eggs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Make  a  batter  of  fine  flour,  and  bake  on  a  griddle. 

Crumpets. 

A  quart  of  warm  milk,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  a  gill  of  distillery  yeast,  and  flour  enough  for  a 
batter,  not  very  stiff. 

When  light,  add  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  or  a  cup 
of  rich  cream,  let  it  stand  twenty  minutes,  and  then  bake 
it  as  muffins,  or  in  cups. 


104  PLAIN    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES. 

Fine  Cottasre  Cheese. 


")=> 


Let  the  milk  be  turned  by  rennet,  or  by  setting  it  in 
a  warm  place.  It  must  not  be  heated,  as  the  oily  parts 
will  then  pass  off,  and  the  richness  is  lost.  When  fully 
turned,  put  it  in  a  coarse  linen  bag,  and  hang  it  to 
drain  several  hours,  till  all  the  whey  is  out.  Then  mash 
it  fine,  salt  it  to  the  taste,  and  thin  it  with  good  cream, 
or  add  but  little  cream  and  roll  it  into  balls.  When  thin, 
it  is  very  fine  with  preserves  or  sugared  fruit. 

It  also  makes  a  fine  pudding,  by  thinning  it  with 
milk,  and  adding  eggs  and  sugar,  and  spice  to  the  taste, 
and  baking  it.  Many  persons  use  milk  when  turned 
for  a  dessert,  putting  on  sugar  and  spice.  Children  are 
fond  of  it. 


CHAPTER    XII. 

PLAIN  PUDDINGS   AND    PIES. 

General   Directions  in   resrard   to   Pudding's  and 


Custards. 


i3 


Make  pudding-bags  of  thick  close  sheeting,  to  shut 
out  the  water.  Before  putting  in  the  pudding,  put  the 
bag  in  water,  and  wring  it  out,  then  flour  the  inside 
thoroughly.  In  tying  it,  leave  room  to  swell ;  flour  and 
Indian  need  a  good  deal,  and  are  hard  and  heavy  if 
cramped. 

Put  an  old  plate  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  to  keep  the 
bag  from  burning  to  the  pot.  Turn  the  pudding  after  it 
has  been  in  five  minutes,  to  keep  the  heavy  parts  from 
setthng.  Keep  the  pudding  covered  witli  water,  and  do 
not  let  it  stop  boiling,  as  this  will  tend  to  make  it  water 
soaked.  Fill  up  with  hoiling  water,  as  cold  would  spoil 
the  pudding.  Dip  the  bag  a  moment  in  cold  water,  just 
before  turning  out  the  pudding. 


PLAIN    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES.  105 

Avoid  stale  eggs.  When  eggs  are  used,  the  whites 
should  be  beat  separately,  and  put  in  the  last  thing.  In 
many  cases,  success  depends  upon  this.  Never  put  eggs 
into  very  hot  milk,  as  it  will  poach  them.  Wash  the 
salt  out  of  butter  used  to  butter  pans,  as  otherwise  it  im- 
parts a  bad  taste  to  the  outside. 

Put  almonds  in  hot  water  till  you  are  ready  to  blanch, 
or  skin  them,  and  put  orange,  or  rose  water  with  them 
when  you  pound  them,  to  prevent  adhesion.  Boil  cus- 
tards in  a  vessel  set  in  boiling  water. 

Little  GirVs  Pie. 

Take  a  deep  dish,  the  size  of  a  soup  plate,  fill  it,  heap- 
ing, with  peeled  tart  apples,  cored  and  quartered ;  pour 
over  it  one  tea-cup  of  molasses,  and  three  great  spoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  dredge  over  this  a  considerable  quantity  of 
Hour,  enough  to  thicken  the  syrup  a  good  deal.  Cover 
it  with  a  crust  made  of  cream,  if  you  have  it,  if  not,  com- 
mon dough,  with  butter  worked  in,  or  plain  pie  crust, 
and  lap  the  edge  over  the  dish,  and  pinch  it  down  tight, 
to  keep  the  syrup  from  running  out.  Bake  about  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Make  several  at  once,  as  they  keep 
well. 

Little  Boy^s  Pudding, 

One  tea-cup  of  rice. 

One  tea- cup  of  sugar. 

One  half  tea-cup  of  butter. 

One  quart  of  milk. 

Nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

Put  the  butter  in  melted,  and  mix  all  in  a  pudding 
dish,  and  bake  it  two  hours,  stirring  it  frequently,  until 
the  rice  is  swollen. 

This  is  good  made  without  butter. 

Children's  Fruit  Dianpling. 

Invert  a  plate  in  a  preserve  kettle,  or  an  iron  or  brass 
kettle.  Put  in  a  quart  or  more  of  sliced  apples  or  pears. 
Put  in  no  water  or  sugar,  but  simply  roll  out  some  com- 


106  PLAIN   PUDDINGS   AND    PIES. 

mon  dough  an  inch  thick,  and  just  large  enough  to  cov- 
er them,  and  hang  it  over  the  fire  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes. When  the  fiuit  is  cooked  the  dough  will  have 
risen  to  a  fine  puff,  and  also  be  cooked.  There  must 
not  be  any  thing  laid  on  the  top  of  the  dough  to  prevent 
it  from  rising,  but  the  kettle  may  be  covered.  When  it  is 
done,  take  off  the  dough  cover,  with  a  fork  and  skimmer, 
put  it  on  to  a  plate,  pour  the  fruit  into  a  round  dish,  put 
the  cover  on,  and  eat  it  with  a  sweet  sauce.  It  is  more 
healthful,  and  much  better  than  dumplings  boiled  the 
common  way. 

Birth-day  Pudding. 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  lay  in  slices  of  bread  and  but- 
ter, wet  with  milk,  and  upon  these  sliced  tart  apples, 
sweetened  and  spiced.  Then  lay  on  another  layer  of 
bread  and  butter  and  apples,  and  continue  thus  till  the 
dish  is  filled.  Let  the  top  layer  be  bread  and  butter, 
and  dip  it  in  milk,  turning  the  buttered  side  down.  Any 
other  kind  of  fruit  will  answer  as  well.  Put  a  plate  on 
the  top,  and  bake  two  hours,  then  take  it  off  and  bake 
another  hour. 

Children's  Boiled  Fruit  Pudding. 

Take  light  dough  and  work  in  a  little  butter,  roll  it  out 
into  a  very  thin  large  layer,  not  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick.  Cover  it  thick  with  strawberries,  and  put  on 
sugar,  roll  it  up  tight,  double  it  once  or  twice  and  fasten 
up  the  ends.  Tie  it  up  in  a  bag,  giving  it  room  to 
swell.     Eat  it  with  butter,  or  sauce  not  very  sweet. 

Blackberries,  whortleberries,  raspberries,  apples,  and 
peaches,  all  make  excellent  puddings  in  the  same  way. 

English  Curd  Pie. 

One  quart  of  milk. 

A  bit  of  rennet  to  curdle  it. 

Press  out  the  whey,  and  put  into  the  curds  three  eggs, 
a  nutmeg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy.  Bake  it  in 
paste,  like  custard. 


PLAIN    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES.  107 

Fruit  Frittej's, 

A  pint  of  milk. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  flour. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

Six  eggs,  and  a  pint  of  cream  if  3^011  have  it ;  if  not, 
a  pint  of  milk  Avith  a  little  butter  melted  in  it. 

Mix  with  this,  either  blackberries,  raspberries,  currants, 
gooseberries,  or  sliced  apples  or  peaches,  and  fry  it  in 
small  cakes  in  sweet  lard.  Eat  with  a  sauce  of  butter 
beat  with  sugar,  and  flavored  with  wine  or  nutmeg,  or 
grated  lemon  peel. 

Common  Apple  Pie. 

Pare  your  apples,  and  cut  them  from  the  core.  Line 
your  dishes  with  paste,  and  put  in  the  apple  ;  cover  and 
bake  until  the  fruit  is  tender.  Then  take  them  from  the 
oven,  remove  the  upper  crust,  and  put  in  sugar  and  nut- 
meg, cinnamon  or  rose  water  to  your  taste ;  a  bit  of 
sweet  butter  improves  them.  Also,  to  put  in  a  little  orange 
peel  before  they  are  baked,  makes  a  pleasant  variety. 
Common  apple  pies  are  very  good  to  stew,  sweeten,  and 
flavor  the  apple  before  they  are  put  into  the  oven.  Many 
prefer  the  seasoning  baked  in.  All  apple  pies  are  much 
nicer  if  the  apple  is  grated  and  then  seasoned. 

Plcmi  Custard. 

Boil  half  a  dozen  peach  leaves,  or  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
or  a  vanilla  bean  in  a  quart  of  milk ;  when  it  is  flavor- 
ed, pour  into  it  a  paste  made  by  a  tablespoonful  of  rice 
flour,  or  common  flour,  wet  up  with  two  spoonfuls  of 
cold  milk,  and  stir  it  till  it  boils  again.  Then  beat  up 
four  eggs  and  put  in,  and  sweeten  it  to  your  taste,  and 
pour  it  out  for  pies  or  pudding. 

A  Richer  Custard. 

Beat  to  a  froth  six  eggs  and  three  spoonfuls  sifted 
sugar,  add  it  to  a  quart  of  milk,  flavor  it  to  your  taste, 
and  pour  it  out  into  cups,  or  pie  plates. 


108  PLAIN    PUDDINGS    AND   PIES. 

Another  Custard. 

Boil  six  peach  leaves,  or  a  lemon  peel,  in  a  quart  of 
milk,  till  k  is  flavored ;  cool  it,  add  three  spoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and  five  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Put  the  custard 
into  a  tin  pail,  set  it  in  boiling  water,  and  stir  it  till  cook- 
ed enough.  Then  turn  it  into  cups,  or,  if  preferred,  it 
can  be  baked. 

Mush,  or  Hasty  Pudding. 

Wet  up  the  Indian  meal  in  cold  water,  till  there  are 
no  lumps,  stir  it  gradually  into  boihng  water  which  has 
been  salted,  till  so  thick  that  the  stick  will  stand  in  it. 
Boil  slowly,  and  so  as  not  to  burn,  stirring  often.  Two 
or  three  hours'  boihng  is  needed.  Pour  it  into  a  broad, 
deep  dish,  let  it  grow  cold,  cut  it  into  shces  half  an  inch 
thick,  flour  them,  and  fry  them  on  a  griddle  with  a  Httle 
lard,  or  bake  them  in  a  stove  over]. 

^tale  Bread  Fritters  {fine). 

Cut  stale  bread  in  thick  slices,  and  put  it  to  soak  for 
several  hours  in  cold  milk. 

Then  fry  it  in  sweet  lard,  and  eat  it  with  sugar,  or 
molasses,  or  a  sweet  sauce.  To  make  it  more  delicate, 
take  off  the  crusts. 

To  prepare  Rennet. 

Put  three  inches  square  of  calfs  rennet  to  a  pint  of 
wine,  and  set  it  away  for  use.  Three  tablespoonfuls 
will  serve  to  curdle  a  quart  of  milk. 

Rennet  Custard. 

Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rennet  wine  to  a  quart  of 
milk,  and  add  four  or  five  great  spoonfuls  of  white  sugar, 
flavor  it  with  wine,  or  lemon,  or  rose  water.  It  must  be 
eaten  in  an  hour  or  it  will  turn  to  curds. 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding. 
Pare  tart,  well-flavored  apples,  scoop  out  the  cores 


% 

PLAIN    PUDDINGS   AND    PIES.  109 

without  dividing  the  apple,  put  them  in  a  deep  dish  with 
a  small  bit  of  mace,  and  a  spoonful  of  sugar  in  the  open- 
ing of  each  apple.  Pour  in  water  enough  to  cook  them  ; 
when  soft,  pour  over  them  an  unbaked  custard,  so  as 
just  to  cover  them,  and  bake  till  the  custard  is  done. 

A  Minute  Pudding  of  Potato  Starch. 

Four  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  potato  flour. 

Three  eggs,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  quart  of  milk. 

Boil  the  milk,  reserving  a  little  to  moisten  the  flour. 
Stir  the  flour  to  a  paste,  perfectly  smooth,  with  the  re- 
served milk,  and  put  it  into  the  boiUng  milk.  Add  the 
eggs  well  beaten,  let  it  boil  till  very  thick,  which  will  be 
in  two  or  three  minutes,  then  pour  into  a  dish  and  serve 
with  liquid  sauce.  After  the  milk  boils,  the  pudding 
must  be  stirred  every  moment  till  done. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

Soak  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a  quart  of  warm 
milk  till  soft,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter, five  eggs  well  beaten,  spice,  sugar,  and  wine  to  your 
taste.     Bake  in  a  buttered  dish,  without  any  lining. 

Sago  Pudding. 

Cleanse  the  sago  in  hot  water,  and  boil  half  a  pound 
in  a  quart  of  milk  with  a  stick  of  mace  or  cinnamon, 
stirring  very  often,  lest  it  burn.  When  soft,  take  out 
the  spice  and  add  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  four  heap- 
ing spoonfuls  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  and,  if  you  like,  some 
Zante  currants,  strewed  on  just  as  it  is  going  into  the 
oven. 

Cocoanut  Pudding  {Plain). 

One  quart  of  milk. 
Five  eggs. 

One  cocoanut,  grated. 

The  eggs  and  sugar  are  beaten  together,  and  stirred 

10 


no  PLAIN    PUDDINGS   AND    PIES. 

into  the  milk  when  hot.  Strain  the  milk  and  eggs,  and 
add  the  cocoanut,  with  nutmeg  to  the  taste.  Bake 
about  twenty  ninutes  hke  puddings. 

New  England  Squash,  or  Pumjokin  Pie. 

Take  a  pumpkin,  or  winter  squash,  cut  in  pieces,  take 
off  the  rind  and  remove  the  seeds,  and  boil  it  until  tender, 
then  rub  it  through  a  sieve.  When  cold,  add  to  it  milk 
to  thin  it,  and  to  each  quart  of  milk  three  well-beaten 
eggs.  Sugar,  cinnamon,  and  ginger  to  your  taste.  The 
quantity  of  milk  must  depend  upon  the  size  and  quality 
of  the  squash. 

These  pies  require  a  moderate  heat,  and  must  be 
baked  until  the  centre  is  firm. 

Ripe  Fruit  Pies. 

Peachy  Cherry^  Plmn,  Currant^  and  Strawberry. 
— Line  your  dish  with  paste.  After  picking  over  and 
washing  the  fruit  carefully  (peaches  must  be  pared,  and 
the  rest  picked  from  the  stem),  place  a  layer  of  fruit  and 
a  layer  of  sugar  in  your  dish,  until  it  is  well  filled,  then 
cover  it  with  paste,  and  trim  the  edge  neatly,  and  prick 
the  cover.  Fruit  pies  require  about  an  hour  to  bake  in 
a  thoroughly  heated  oven. 

Batter  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk. 

Twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

Nine  eggs. 

A  teaspoon  fill  of  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  thoroughly,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  add 
the  milk  slowly.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth 
and  add  the  last  thing.  Tie  in  a  floured  bag,  and  put 
it  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  two  hours.  Allow  room  to 
swell. 

Mock  Cream. 

Beat  three  eggs  well,  and  add  three  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  sifted  flour.     Stir  it  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boil- 


PLAIN    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES.  Ill 

ing  milk,  add  a  salt  spoon  of  salt,  and  sugar  to  your 
taste.     Flavor  with  rose  water,  or  essence  of  lemon. 
This  can  be  used  for  cream  cakes,  or  pastry. 

Bread  Pudding, 

Three  pints  of  boiled  milk. 

Eleven  ounces  of  grated  bread. 

Half  a  pound  of  sugar. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

Five  eggs. 

Pour  the  boiling  milk  over  the  bread,  stir  the  Ijutter 
and  sugar  well  together,  and  put  them  into  the  bread 
and  milk.  When  cool  enough,  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Three  quarters  of  an  hour  will  bake  it. 

A  richer  pudding  may  be  made  from  the  above  recipe 
by  using  twice  as  much  butter  and  eggs. 

Sunderland  Pudding. 

Six  eggs. 

Three  spoonfuls  of  flour. 

One  pint  of  milk.    A  pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  well,  and  mix  them  smoothly  with  the 
flour,  then  add  the  milk.  Lastly,  whip  the  whites  to  a 
stifif  froth,  work  them  in,  and  bake  immediately. 

To  be  eaten  with  a  liquid  sauce. 

An  Excellent  Ajrple  Pie. 

Take  fair  apples  ;  pare,  core,  and  quarter  them. 

Take  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  to  a  pie. 

Put  into  a  preserving  pan,  with  the  sugar,  water 
enough  to  make  a  thin  syrup  ;  throw  in  a  few  blades  of 
mace,  boil  the  apple  in  the  syrup  until  tender,  a  little  at 
a  time,  so  as  not  to  break  the  pieces.  Take  them  out 
with  care,  and  lay  them  in  soup  dishes. 

When  you  have  preserved  apple  enough  for  your  num- 
ber of  pies,  add  to  the  remainder  of  the  syrup,  cinnamon 
and  rose  water,  or  any  other  spice,  enough  to  flavor  it 
well,  and  divide  it  among  the  pies.  Make  a  good  paste, 
and  line  the  rim  of  the  dishes,  and  then  cover  them,  leaving 


112  PLAIN    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES. 

the  pies  without  an  under  crust.     Bake  them  a  hght 
brown. 

Boiled  Apple  Pudding. 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

One  pound  of  flour. 

Two  dozen  apples. 

Make  a  plain  paste  of  the  flour  and  butter.  Sprinkle 
your  pudding-bag  with  flour,  roll  the  paste  thin,  and  lay- 
inside  of  the  bag,  and  fill  the  crust  with  apples  nicely- 
pared  and  cored.  Draw  the  crust  together,  and  cut  off 
any  extra  paste  about  the  fokis  ;  tie  the  bag  tight,  and 
put  it  into  boiUng  water.  Boil  it  two  hours.  A  layer 
of  rice,  nicely  picked  and  washed,  sprinkled  inside  the 
bag,  instead  of  crust,  makes  a  very  good  pudding,  called 
an  Avalanche. 

Common  dough  rolled  out  makes  a  fine  crust  for  the 
above,  especially  with  a  little  butter  worked  in  it.  It  is 
more  healthful  than  the  unleavened  crust. 

Spiced  Apple  Tarts. 

Rub  stewed  or  baked  apples  through  a  sieve,  sweeten 
them,  and  add  powdered  mace  and  cinnamon  enough  to 
flavor  them.  If  the  apples  are  not  very  tart,  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Some  persons  like  the  peel  of  the 
lemon  grated  into  it.  Line  soup  dishes  with  a  light  crust, 
double  on  the  rim,  and  fill  them  and  bake  them  until  the 
crust  is  done.  Little  bars  of  crust,  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
in  width,  crossed  on  the  top  of  the  tart  before  it  is  baked, 
is  ornamental. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. 

Three  pints  of  milk. 

Ten  heaping  tablespoonfids  of  sifted  Indian  meal. 

Half  a  pint  of  molasses. 

Two  eggs. 

Scald  the  meal  with  the  milk,  add  the  molasses,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  in  the  eggs  when  it  is  cool 
enough  not  to  scald  them.     Put  in  a  tablespoonful  of 


PLAIN    PUDDINGS   AND    TIES.  113 

ginger.  Tie  the  bag  so  that  it  will  be  about  two-thirds 
full  of  the  pudding,  in  order  to  give  room  to  swell.  The 
longer  it  is  boiled  the  better.  Some  like  a  little  chopped 
suet  with  the  above. 

Baked  India7i  Pudding. 

Three  pints  of  milk. 

Ten  heaping  table  spoonfuls  of  Indian  meal. 

Three  gills  of  molasses. 

A  piece  of  butter,  as  large  as  a  hen's  egg. 

Scald  the  meal  with  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  butter 
and  molasses,  and  bake  four  or  live  hours.  Some  add  a 
little  chopped  suet  in  place  of  the  butter. 

Rice  Balls,  or  Geriiian  Pudding. 

Two  tea-cups  of  rice. 

One  quart  of  milk. 

Four  ounces  of  sugar. 

One  wine-glass  of  wine. 

SpLce  to  the  taste. 

Wash  the  rice  carefully,  and  throw  it  in  a  pan  of  boil- 
ing salted  water.  Let  it  boil  very  fast  seventeen  min- 
utes, then  pour  off  the  water,  and  in  its  place  put  one- 
third  of  the  milk,  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon.  Let  it  boil 
till  it  is  as  thick  as  very  stiff  hasty  pudding,  then  put  in 
half  the  sugar ;  fill  small  tea-cups  with  this  rice,  and  set 
them  to  cool.  When  cool,  turn  out  the  rice  on  to  a 
large  dish,  pour  over  it  a  syllabub  (not  whipped),  made  of 
the  remaining  milk  and  sugar,  with  the  wine.  It  is 
still  better  made  with  a  syllabub  of  rich  cream,  and 
whipped. 

Apple  Custard. 

Take  half  a  dozen  very  tart  apples,  and  take  off  the 
skin  and  cores.  Cook  them  till  they  begin  to  be  soft,  in 
half  a  tea-cup  of  water.  Then  put  them  in  a  pudding 
dish,  and  sugar  them.  Then  beat  eight  eggs  with  foiu' 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  mix  it  with  three  pints  of  milk  ;  pour 
it  over  the  apples,  and  bake  for  about  half  an  hour. 

10* 


114  PLAIN   PUDDINGS   AND   PIES. 

Rhubarb  Pie, 

Out  the  stalks  of  the  rhubarb  into  small  pieces,  and 
stew  them  with  some  lemon  peel  till  tender.  Strain 
them,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  and  add  as  many  eggs  as 
you  can  afford.  Line  pie  plates  with  paste,  and  bake  it 
like  tarts,  without  upper  crust. 

Plain  Macaroni  or  Vermacelli  Puddings. 

Put  two  ounces  of  macaroni,  or  vermacelli,  into  a  pint 
of  milk,  and  simmer  until  tender.  Flavor  it  by  putting 
in  two  or  three  sticks  of  cinnamon  while  boiling,  or  some 
other  spice  when  done.  Then  beat  up  three  eggs,  mix 
in  an  ounce  of  sugar,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  glass 
of  wine.  Add  these  to  the  macaroni  or  vermacelli,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Green  Corn  Pudding. 

Twelve  ears  of  corn,  grated.     Sweet  corn  is  best. 
One  pint  and  a  half  of  milk. 
Four  well-beaten  eggs. 
One  tea-cup  and  a  half  of  sugar. 
Mix  the  above,  and  bake  it  three  hours  in  a  buttered 
dish.     More  sugar  is  needed  if  common  corn  is  used. 

Bread  Pudding  for  Invalids^  or  IToung  Children. 

Grate  half  a  pound  of  stale  bread,  add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  pour  on  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  and  let  it  soak  half 
an  hour.  Add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  put  it  in  a  covered 
basin  just  large  enough  to  hold  it,  tie  it  in  a  pudding 
cloth,  and  boil  it  half  an  hour  ;  or  put  it  in  a  buttered  pan 
in  an  oven,  and  bake  it  that  time.  Make  a  sauce  of 
thin  sweet  cream,  sweetened  Avith  sugar,  and  flavored 
with  rose  water  or  nutmeg. 

Plain  Rice  Pudding,  ivithont  Eggs. 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  rice  into  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  or 
cream  and  milk.     Add  half  a  pint  of  sugar  and  nutmeg, 


PLAIN    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES.  115 

and  powdered  cinnamon.     Bake  it  two  hours  or  more, 
till  the  rice  is  quite  soft.     It  is  good  cold. 

Another  Sago  Pudding. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  sago,  soaked  two  hours  in  cold 
water,  and  then  boiled  soft  in  a  quart  of  milk.  Add  four 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  twenty  spoonfuls  of  sugar  beat- 
en into  the  yolks  of  six  or  eight  eggs.  Add  currants  or 
chopped  raisins  dredged  with  flour,  and  nutmeg,  and  cin- 
namon, or  a  grated  lemon  peel  and  juice.  Bake  it  in  a 
buttered  dish  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  It  is  good 
cold. 


Note. — All  custards  are  much  improved  by  a  little 
salt^  say  a  small  half  teaspoonful  to  a  quart  of  milk. 
In  all  the  preceding  receipts,  where  no  butter  is  used,  a 
little  salt  must  be  put  in,  say  a  small  half  teaspoonful 
to  each  quart.  Many  puddings  are  greatly  mjured  by 
neglecting  it. 

Oat  Meal  Mush. 

This  is  made  just  like  Indian  mush,  and  is  called 
Bourgoo. 

Modes  of  Prepari7ig  Apples  for  the  Table. 

Pippins  are  the  best  apples  for  cooking. 

1.  Put  them  in  a  tin  pan,  and  bake  them  in  a  reflect- 
or or  stove,  or  range  oven,  or  a  Dutch  oven.  Try  them 
with  a  fork,  and  when  done,  put  them  on  a  dish,  and 
if  sour  fruit,  grate  white  sugar  over  them.  Sweet  ones 
need  to  bake  much  longer  than  sour.  Serve  them  in  a 
saucer  with  cream,  or  a  thin  custard. 

2.  Take  tart  and  large  apples,  and  peel  them ;  take 
the  cores  out  with  an  apple  corer,  put  them  in  a  tin,  and 
fill  the  openings  with  sugar,  and  a  small  bit  of  orange  or 
lemon  peel,  or  a  bit  of  cinnamon.  Scatter  sugar  over 
the  top,  and  bake  till  done,  but  not  till  they  lose  their 
shape.     Try  with  a  fork. 


116  PLAIN   PUDDINGS   AND   PIES. 

3.  Peel  large  tart  apples,  and  take  out  the  cores  with  the 
apple  corer.  Put  them  in  a  Dutch  oven,  or  preserving 
kettle,  and  simmer  them  till  cooked  through.  Then 
take  them  out  and  put  into  the  kettle  a  pint  of  the  wa- 
ter in  which  they  were  boiled,  and  beat  the  white  of  an 
egg  and  stir  in.  Then  throw  in  three  or  four  cups  of  nice 
brown  sugar,  and  let  it  boil  up,  and  skim  it  till  clear. 
Then  put  in  the  apples,  and  let  them  boil  up  for  five 
minutes  or  more.  Then  put  them  in  a  dish  for  tea,  and 
serve  with  cream  if  you  have  it ;  if  not,  take  a  pint  or 
pint  and  a  half  of  rich  milk  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  beat  up 
two  eggs,  and  stir  in  and  cook  it  in  a  tin  pail  in  boiUng 
water,  and  serve  it  like  cream  to  eat  with  the  apple. 

4.  Peel  large  tart  apples,  put  them  in  a  tin  pan  with 
sugar  in  the  openings,  and  bits  of  lemon  or  orange  peel, 
or  cinnamon,  to  flavor  and  scatter  sugar  over.  Bake  till 
soft,  then  put  them  in  a  dish,  and  pour  over  them  a  cus- 
tard made  of  four  eggs  and  a  quart  of  milk. 

5.  Peel  tart  apples,  and  grate  them  in  a  dish,  and 
grate  in  as  much  stale  bread.  Beat  up  two  eggs  in  a 
pint  or  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  and  make  it  quite  sweet, 
and  flavor  with  rose  water,  or  grated  lemon,  or  orange 
peel,  and  pour  it  in  and  mix  it  well.  Then  bake  it,  and 
eat  it  either  as  a  pudding  for  dinner,  or  as  an  article  for 
the  tea-table,  to  be  eaten  cold  and  with  cream.  If  you 
have  quinces,  grate  in  one-third  quince,  and  add  more 
sugar,  and  it  is  a  great  improvement.  Various  berries 
can  be  stewed  and  mixed  with  bread  crumbs,  and  cook- 
ed in  this  way. 

6.  Peel  apples  (or  prepare  any  other  fruit),  and  put  them 
in  layers  in  a  stone  or  earthen  jar  with  a  small  mouth. 
Intermix  quinces  if  you  have  them.  Scatter  sugar  be- 
tween each  layer  in  abundance.  Cover  the  mouth  with 
wheat  dough,  and  set  the  jar  in  with  the  bread,  and  let 
it  remain  all  night,  and  it  makes  a  most  healthful  and 
delicious  dish.  Some  place  7^aio  rice  in  alternate  layers 
with  the  fruit.  Children  are  very  fond  of  this  dish  thus 
prepared  with  rice,  and  it  is  very  httle  trouble,  and  no- 
thing can  be  more  healthful. 

7.  Peel  and  core  apples  (or  take  peaches,  or  pears,  or 


PLAIN   PUDDINGS    AND   PIES.  117 

damsons),  and  allow  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of 
fruit.  Clarify  the  sugar,  by  adding  water  and  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg^  and  stirring  and  skimming  it.  Boil  the 
fruit  in  the  syrup  all  day  very  slowly,  mashing  and  stir- 
ring often,  till  it  is  a  thick,  smooth  paste.  If  it  has  skins 
in  it,  it  must  be  strained  through  a  colander.  Put  it  in 
buttered  pans  to  cool.  Then  lay  it  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 
It  can  be  cut  in  slices  for  the  tea-table.  Quinces  make 
the  best.  Apples,  with  the  juice  and  some  of  the  peel  of 
lemons  or  oranges,  are  fine.  This  is  called  Fruit  Cheese. 

8.  Boil  down  new  sweet  cider  to  one  half  the  original 
quantity.  Stew  peeled  and  cored  apples,  with  one  quar- 
ter as  many  quinces,  in  this  cider,  till  it  is  a  very  dark 
color.  If  well  boiled,  it  will  keep  a  year  in  jars,  and 
is  called  Apple  Butter. 

9.  The  following  mode  of  cooking  dried  fritits  is  the 
best.  Take  dried  peaches,  quinces,  or  apples,  and  put 
them  to  swell  in  cold  water  for  several  hours.  Peaches 
must  be  very  thoroughly  washed.  Then  put  them  into 
a  stewing  kettle,  wiih  a  great  deal  of  water,  and  a  pint 
of  brown  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Cover  them,  and 
let  them  simmer  very  sloioly  for  several  hours,  till  the 
Vv'ater  is  boiled  down  to  as  much  liquid  as  you  wish. 

Peaches  have  a  finer  flavor  when  dried  with  the  skin 
on,  as  fully  ripe  peaches  cannot  be  pared  and  dried. 
When  finely  flavored,  peaches  have  a  solid  pulp ;  when 
ripe  they  should  be  pared  and  then  dried,  and  such  are 
much  the  best  for  cooking  in  the  above  way. 

They  will,  when  cooked  thus,  be  preferred  by  every 
body  to  the  finest  and  most  expensive  sweetmeats. 

10.  The  following  is  the  best  and  cheapest  method  of 
making  the  finest  Apple  Jelly.  Grapes  and  damsons 
can  be  made  the  same  way. 

Take  the  best  pippins,  and  wipe  them,  taking  out 
stem  and  eye.  Cut  them  in  thin  slices,  without  paring 
or  quartering,  as  the  chief  flavor  is  in  the  peel,  and  the 
jelly  part  is  in  the  cores. 

Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle,  and  put  in  just  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  and  boil  them  very  soft.  Then 
mash  and  strain  through  a  jelly-bag  made  of  coarse  flan- 


118  PLAIN    PUDDINGS   AND    PIES. 

iiel.  Put  the  liquid  into  the  kettle,  with  a  pint  of  brown 
sugar  to  each  pint  of  the  liquid,  and  add  the  juice  and 
rind  of  a  lemon  cut  in  slices.  Beat  up  the  white  of  one 
egg,  and  stir  in  very  thoroughly.  Boil  up  three  times, 
throwing  in  some  cold  water  to  stop  it  from  running  over. 
Then  let  it  stand  quiet  on  the  hearth  half  an  hour. 
Try  it,  and  if  not  hard  enough,  let  it  boil  till  it  will  turn 
to  jelly  on  cooling.  Then  skim  off  the  scum,  and  pour 
off  the  clear  jelly,  and  strain  the  sediment  through  the 
jelly-bag.  Then  put  it  in  glasses.  It  can  be  boiled 
down,  and  make  elegant  apple  candy. 

Grapes  and  damsons  should  have  water  put  in  when 
first  boiled,  as  the  flavor  is  thus  more  perfectly  extracted. 
Frost  grapes  make  an  elegant  jelly,  as  do  the  wild 
plum,  by  this  method.  In  summer  these  jellies  are  fine 
for  effervescing  drinks,  with  some  good  wine  vinegar 
mixed  with  them. 

Fruit  Custards. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  fruit  stewed  and  strained,  cooled 
and  sweetened. 

Six  eggs  well  beaten,  and  stirred  into  a  quart  of  milk. 

Mix  tlie  above  and  flavor  with  spice,  and  bake  in  cups 
or  a  deep  dish  twenty  minutes,  or  half  an  hour,  accord- 
ing to  the  size.     It  is  good  cold. 

It  may  be  boiled  in  a  tin  pail  in  boiling  water. 

Modes  of  preparing  Rice  for  the  Dinner  or   Tea 

Table. 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  rice,  and  boil  it  fifteen  min- 
utes in  water  with  salt  in  it.  Rice  is  very  poor  unless 
the  salt  is  cooked  into  it.  Then  pour  off  the  water,  and 
pour  in  good  rich  milk,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  till  the 
rice  is  soft.  There  should  be  milk  just  sufficient  to  make 
the  rice  of  a  'pudding  consistency,  so  that  it  can  be  put  in 
cups  and  turned  out  without  losing  its  form. 

1.  Fill  a  tea-cup  with  this  rice,  and  invert  it  in  a  platter 
or  shallow  large  pudding  dish,  and  fill  the  dish  with  cups 
of  rice  inverted.  On  the  summit  of  each  mound  thus 
made,  make  an  opening  with  a  teaspoon,  and  lay  a  pile 


PLAIN    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES.  119 

of  jelly  or  sweetmeats.  Then  pour  into  the  dish  a  cus- 
tard made  of  two  eg-gs  and  a  pint  of  milk,  boiled  in  a  tin 
pail  in  boiling  water.  This  looks  very  pretty,  and  is  ex- 
cellent. 

If  you  have  cream,  take  half  milk  and  half  cream, 
and  pour  into  the  dish,  instead  of  the  custard. 

2.  Put  the  rice  into  a  large  bowl,  and  press  it  down 
hard.  Then  invert  the  bowl  in  a  pudding  dish,  and 
empty  the  rice,  so  as  to  leave  it  in  the  shape  of  the  IdowI. 
Make,  at  regular  distances,  openings  in  the  rice,  and  Islj 
in  them  jelly,  or  sweetmeats.  Help  some  of  the  rice  and 
sweetmeats  to  each  person  in  a  saucer,  and  have  a  small 
pitcher  of  sweetened  cream,  flavored  with  wine  and  nut- 
meg, and  pour  some  into  each  saucer.  Or  prepare  a 
thin  custard  of  two  eggs  to  a  pint  of  milk,  boihng  it  in  a 
tin  pail  in  boiling  water. 

3.  Set  the  rice  away  till  cold.  Then  cut  it  into  slices 
half  an  inch  thick.  Put  a  layer  of  rice  in  the  bottom  of 
a  soup  plate,  and  cover  it  with  stewed  apple,  or  jelly,  or 
sweetmeats  half  an  inch  thick.  Continue  thus,  with  al- 
ternate layers  of  rice  and  jelly  (or  other  cooked  fruit)  till 
it  is  as  high  as  you  wish.  Then  cut  the  edges  around 
smooth  and  even,  so  as  to  show  the  stripes  of  fruit  and 
rice,  smooth  it  on  the  top,  and  grate  on  white  sugar,  or 
nutmeg. 

Help  it  in  saucers,  and  have  cream,  or  a  thin  boiled 
custard,  to  pour  on  to  it.  If  you  wish  to  ornament  it  a 
good  deal,  get  colored  sugar  plums  of  various  sizes^  and 
put  them  in  fanciful  arrangements  on  the  top. 

4.  Set  away  boiled  rice  till  it  is  cold,  and  so  solid  as  to 
cut  in  slices.  Then  lay  in  a  buttered  deep  pudding  dish 
alternate  layers  of  this  rice,  half  an  inch  thick,  and  stew- 
ed or  grated  apple.  Add  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  it,  and 
spice  grated  or  sifted  on  each  layer  of  fruit.  When  piled 
up  as  high  as  you  wish,  cover  with  rice,  smooth  it  with 
a  spoon  dipped  in  milk,  and  bake  it  from  half  to  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.  If  the  apples  are  grated  raw,  you 
must  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  When  it  is  done, 
grate  white  sugar  over  the  top,  and  eat  it  for  a  pudding. 


120  PLAIN    PUDDINGS   AND    PIES.  ; 

Pears,  plumSj  peaches,  quinces,  and  all  the  small  ber- 
ries can  be  stewed  and  used  with  rice  in  this  way. 

Rice  can  be  made  into  rice  avalanches  and  s7ioiv-baIls^ 
by  taking  a  pudding  cloth  and  flouring  it,  and  laying  7^a7V 
rice  over  it  an  inch  thick,  and  then  put  pared  and  cored  fruit 
on  it  and  draw  it  up  and  tie  it  so  that  the  rice  will  cook 
around  the  fruit.  Tie  it  tight,  allowing  a  little  room 
for  the  rice  to  swell.  Make  several  small  ones  in  this 
way,  and  they  are  called  snoio-halls.  These  are  eaten 
with  cream  sweetened  and  spiced,  or  with  hard  or  soft 
pudding  sauces. 

Rice  a7id  Meat  Pudding. 

Take  any  kind  of  cold  meat,  and  chop  it  fine,  with 
cold  ham,  or  cold  salt  pork.  Season  it  to  your  taste  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs,  a  little  butter,  and  stir  in 
two  eggs.  Then  make  alternate  layers  of  cold  boiled 
rice  and  this  mixture,  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Or  make 
it  into  cakes  with  the  rice  and  fry  it. 

Modes  of  preparing   Dishes  ivith  Dry  Bread,  or 
Bread  so  old  as  to  he  not  good  for  the  table. 

Put  all  dry  bits  of  crust  and  crumbs,  and  leavings 
of  the  table,  in  a  tin  pan.  When  the  bread  is  drawn,  set 
it  in  the  oven,  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  It  is,  when 
pounded,  called  rusk  crumbs,  and  is  good  to  eat  in  milk, 
and  also  in  these  ways. 

1.  Take  apple  sauce  or  stewed  pears,  or  peaches,  or 
any  kind  of  small  berries,  and  mix  them  with  equal 
quantities  of  rusk  crumbs.  Make  a  custard  of  four  eggs 
to  a  quart  of  milk,  sw^eetening  it  very  sweet.  Mix  it 
with  the  bread  crumbs  and  fruit,  and  bake  it  twenty 
minutes,  as  a  pudding, 

2.  Make  a  custard  with  four  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk, 
thicken  it  with  rusk  crumbs,  and  bake  it  twenty  min- 
utes, and  eat  it  with  pudding  sauce,  flavored  with  wine 
and  nutmeg. 

3.  Take  any  kind  of'cold  meats,  chop  them  fine  with 
cold  ham,  or  cold  salt  pork.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  mix  in  two  eggs  and  a  little  butter.     Mix  this 


0  RICH   PUDDINGS    AND    PIES.  121 

up  with  bread  crumbs  or  rusk  crumbs,  and  bake  it  like 
a  piidcliug.  Or  put  it  in  a  skillet,  and  warm  it  like  hash. 
Or  put  it  into  balls,  and  flatten  it  and  fry  it  Hke  forced 
meat  balls. 

4.  Soak  dry  bread  crumbs  in  milk  till  quite  soft. 
Then  beat  up  three  eggs  and  stir  m,  and  put  in  sliced 
and  peeled  apples,  or  any  kind  of  berries.  Flour  a  pud- 
ding cloth,  and  tie  it  up  and  boil  it  half  or  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  according  to  the  size. 

This  pudding  does  not  swell  in  boiling.  Eat  with 
sauce. 

5.  Take  stale  bread  and  crumble  it  fine,  and  mix  it 
with  egg  and  a  little  milk,  and  boil  it  in  a  large  pudding 
cloth,  or  put  it  around  small  peeled  apples,  and  boil  it  for 
dumplings  in  several  smaller  cloths. 

G.  Take  bread  crunibs,  or  rusk  crumbs,  and  mix  them 
with  eggs  and  milk,  and  bake  them  for  griddle  cakes.  If 
you  have  raspberries,  blackbeiries,  whortleberries,  straw- 
berries, or  lipe  currants,  put  them  in  and  then  thicken  with 
a  little  Hour,  so  as  to  make  drop  cakes,  and  bake  them  (a 
large  spoonful  at  a  time),  on  a  griddle,  as  drop  cakes. 
Or  put  them  in  muffin  rings,  and  bake  them.  Eat  with 
butter  and  sugar,  or  with  pudding  sauces. 


CHAPTER   XIII. 

RICH   PUDDINGS    AND   PIES. 

Ellen^s  Puddings  or  Rhubarb  Tart, 

One  pint  of  stewed  pie  plant. 
Four  ounces  of  sus^ar. 
One  half  pint  of  cream. 
Two  ounces  of  pounded  cracker. 
Three  e2r'i:s. 

Stew  the  pie  plant,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve.     Beat 
the  eggs  well,  and  mix  with  the  sugar  and  cream.     Stir 

11 


122  RICH   PUDDINGS   AND    PIES. 

the  cracker  crumbs  into  the  fruit,  and  add  the  other  in- 
gredients. Line  your  plate  with  a  i^ibdera^fely  rich  paste, 
and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Nottingham  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  sifted  flour. 

Three  gills  of  milk. 

One  gill  of  rich  cream. 

Six  apples. 

Four  eggs. 

A  salt  spoonful  of  salt. 

Pare  the  apples,  and  take  out  the  core  without  cutting 
the  apple.  Mix  the  batter  very  smooth,  and  pour  over 
the  apples.  Eat  with  hquid  sauce.  This  pudding  re- 
quires an  hour  to  bake. 

Rice  Plum  Pudding. 

Three  gills  of  rice. 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 

One  quart  of  milk.  \ 

A  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Six  eggs. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  stoned  raisins  or  currants. 

Half  a  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon. 

A  little  rose  water,  and  one  nutmeg. 

Boil  the  rice  with  lemon  peel  in  the  milk,  till  soft. 
Mix  the  butter,' sugar,  and  eggs.  Dredge  the  fruit  with 
flour,  and  put  in  with  the  spice  the  last  thing.  Bake  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

Eve^s  Pudding  {the  best  kind). 

Half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt. 

Half  a  pound  of  pared  and  chopped  apples. 

Half  a  pound  of  sugar. 

Half  a  pound  of  flour. 

Half  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  dredged  with  flour. 

Five  eggs.     A  grated  nutmeg.     A  glass  of  brandy. 


RICH    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES.  123 

Cl,iop  and  mix  the  suet  and  apples.  Beat  the  sugar 
into  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Mix  all,  putting  in  the 
whites  cut  to  a  stiff  froth  just  before  going  into  the  oven. 
Bake  two  hours. 

Baked  English  Plum  Pudding. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suetj  chopped  first,  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  of  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs.  .    ' 

Half  of  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  wet  and  dredged 
with  flour. 

Half  of  a  pound  of  currants. 

Half  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 

Three  ounces  of  citron. 

Milk,  and  six  eggs. 

Pour  enough  scalded  milk  on  to  the  bread  crumbs  to 
swell  them  ;  when  cold,  add  the  other  ingredients.  If  it 
is  too  stiff,  thin  it  with  milk  ;  if  it  is  too  thin,  add  more 
bread  crumbs.  Then  add  two  grated  nutmegs,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  and  half  a  gill  of  bran- 
dy.    Bake  two  hours. 

A  Boiled  English  Plum  Pudding, 

One  pound  of  currants. 

One  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  dredged  with  flour. 

Half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt. 

One  pound  of  bread  crumbs. 

One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron. 

Eight  eggs. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  one  gill  of  wine,  or  brandy. 

A  heaping  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  and  mace  and  nutmeg 
to  your  taste. 

Eaten  with  a  sauce  of  butter,  sugar,  and  wine. 

It  requires  six  or  seven  hours  to  boil,  and  must  be  turn- 
ed several  times. 

In  both  these  puddings,  cut  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  put  in  the  last  thing. 


124  RICH   PUDDINGS   AND    PIES. 

Almond  Cheese  Cake. 

Beat  eight  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  a  quart  of  boiling 
milk,  and  boil  to  curds.  Press  the  curds  dry,  and  add 
two  cups  of  cream,  six  heaping  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace  and  cinnamon. 

Then  stir  in  three  ounces  of  blanched  almonds,  beat 
to  a  thin  paste  with  rose  water,  and  a  few  bitter  almonds, 
or  peachniits,  beat  with  them.  Lastly,  put  in  half  a 
pound  of  stoned  raisins,  cut  up,  and  dredged  with  flour, 
and  bake  immediately,  half  an  hour. 

Some  persons  make  the  curd  with  rennet,  and  then 
add  the  eggs  and  other  articles. 

Cocoanut  Pudding: 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut. 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

One  pound  of  sugar. 

One  half  pint  of  cream. 

Nine  eggs. 

One  gill  of  rose  water. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  as  for  cake,  add  the  eggs 
well  beaten.  Grate  the  cocoanuts,  and  stir  it  in  with 
the  butter  and  eggs.  Put  in  the  other  ingredients,  and 
bake  with  or  without  a  crust. 

It  requires  three  quarters  of  an  hour  for  baking. 
Some  persons  grate  in  stale  rusk,  or  sponge  cake. 

Arrowroot  Pudding. 

Take  four  tea-cups  of  arrowroot,  and  mix  it  with  a 
pint  of  cold  milk.  Boil  another  pint  of  milk,  flavoring 
it  with  cinnamon,  or  peach  leaves,  or  lemon  peel.  Stir 
the  arrowroot  into  this  boiling  milk.  When  cold,  add 
the  yolks  of  six  eggs  beaten  into  four  ounces  of  sugar. 
Last  of  all,  add  the  whites  cut  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  bake 
in  a  buttered  dish  an  hour.  Ornament  the  top  with 
sweetmeats,  or  citron  cut  up. 

Ground  Rice  Puddi?ig. 
Make  a  batter  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  rice, 


RICH    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES.  125 

Stirred  into  a  pint  of  cold  milk.  Pour  it  into  tliree  pints 
of  boiling  milk,  and  let  it  boil  three  minutes.  Mix  three 
spoonfuls  of  butter  with  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  the 
yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  put  to  the  rice.  When  cool, 
strain  through  a  sieve.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  and  essence 
of  lemon,  or  boil  lemon  peel  in  tlie  milk.  Add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  last,  cut  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  also  the  juice  of 
a  lemon.     Ornament  with  jelly. 

il^fejS.  OJs  Pumpkin  Pie. 


One  quart  of  strained  pumpkin,  or  squash. 
Two  quarts  of  milk,  and  a  pint  of  cream. 
One  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  four  of  ginger. 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  pounded  cinnamon. 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  nutmeg,  and  two  of  mace. 
Ten  well-beaten  ^^g^^  and  sugar  to  your  taste. 
Bake  with  a  bottom  crust  and  rim,  till  it  is  solid  in  the 
centre. 

Cracker  Plum  Pudding  {excellent). 

Take  eight  Boston  soda  crackers,  five  pints  of  milk, 
and  one  dozen  eggs. 

Make  a  very  sweet  custard,  and  put  into  it  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt. 

Split  the  crackers,  and  butter  them  very  thick. 

Put  a  layer  of  raisins  on  the  bottom  of  a  large  pud- 
ding dish,  and  then  a  layer  of  crackers,  and  pour  on  a 
little  of  the  custard  when  w^arm,  and  after  soaking  a  lit- 
tle put  on  a  thick  layer  of  raisins,  pressing  them  into  the 
crackers  Avith  a  knife.  Then  put  on  another  layer  of 
crackers,  custard,  and  fruit,  and  proceed  thus  till  you 
have  four  layers.  Then  pour  over  the  whole  enough 
custard  to  rise  even  with  the  crackers.  It  is  best  made 
over  night,  so  that  the  crackers  may  soak.  Bake  from 
an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  Durinsr  the  first  half 
hour,  pour  on,  at  three  different  times,  a  little  of  the  cus- 
tard, thinned  with  milk,  to  prevent  the  top  from  being 
hard  and  dry.     If  it  browns  fast,  cover  with  paper. 

Bread  and  butter  pudding  is  made  in  a  similar  man- 

11* 


126  RICH   PUDDINGS   AND   PIES. 

ner,  except  the  custard  need  not  be  cooked  when  pour- 
ed in,  and  the  fruit  may  be  left  out. 

Minced  Pie. 

Two  pounds  and  a  half  of  tongue,  or  lean  beef. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  suet. 

Eight  good-sized  apples. 

Two  pounds  of  raisins. 

Two  pounds  of  sugai*. 

Two  gills  of  rose  water. 

One  quart  of  wine. 

Salt,  mace,  cloves,  and  cinnamon,  to  the  taste. 

Boil  the  meat,  and  chop  very  fine.  Chop  the  suet  and 
apples  very  fine.  Stone  the  raisins,  cutting  each  into 
four  pieces.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  wine  and  rose 
water,  and  mix  all  well  together  with  the  spices.  Twice 
this  quantity  of  apple  improves  the  pies,  making  them 
less  rich.  Line  your  plates  with  a  rich  paste,  fill,  cover, 
and  bake.  Measure  the  spices  used,  to  save  tasting  next 
time,  and  to  prevent  mistakes. 

Marlborough  Pudding. 

Six  tart  apples. 

Six  ounces  of  sifted  sugar. 

Six  ounces  of  butter,  or  a  pint  of  thick  cream. 

Six  eggs. 

The  grated  peel  of  one  lemon,  and  half  the  juice. 

Grate  the  apples  after  paring  and  coring  them.  Stir 
together  the  butter  and  sugar  as  for  cake.  Then  add  the 
other  ingredients,  and  bake  in  a  rich  paste.  Some  per- 
sons grate  in  crackers,  and  add  rose  water  and  nutmeg. 
It  is  much  better  to  grate  than  to  stew  the  apples,  for 
this  and  all  pies. 

Orange^  or  LeiJion  Pudding. 

Two  large  lemons,  or  oranges. 
One  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 
Four  ounces  of  butter. 
One  pint  of  cream. 
Nine  eggs. 


RICH    PUDDINGS   AND   PIES.  127 

A  little  rose  water. 

Grate  the  yellow  part  of  the  peel  of  the  fruit,  squeeze 
the  juice,  mix  the  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together, 
beat  the  eggs  well.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  except  the 
juice,  which  must  not  be  added  until  ready  to  bake. 
Line  your  dishes  with  a  rich  paste,  and  fill  and  bake  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

fSioeet  Potato  Pudding. 

Grate  half  a  pound  of  parboiled  sweet  potatoes,  and 
stir  to  a  cream  six  ounces  of  sugar  and  six  of  butter,  and 
then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eight  eggs. 

Mix  the  above,  and  add  the  grated  peel  and  juice  of 
a  lemon,  a  glass  of  w^ne,  and  a  grated  nutmeg. 

The  last  thing,  put  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beat  to  a 
stiff  froth. 

Common  potatoes  and  carrots  may  be  made  as  above, 
only  they  are  to  be  boiled  soft;  and  put  through  a  colan- 
der, and  more  sugar  used. 

Qiiince  Pudding. 

Peel  and  grate  six  large  quinces.  Add  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  six  well-beaten  eggs. 
Flavor  with  rose  water,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

PASTE    FOR    PUDDINGS    AND    PIES. 

This  is  an  article  which,  if  the  laws  of  health  were 
obeyed,  would  be  banished  from  every  table,  for  it  unites 
the  three  evils  of  animal  fat,  cooked  animal  fat,  and 
heavy  bread.  Nothing  in  the  whole  range  of  cooking  is 
more  indigestible  than  rich  pie  crust,  especiall}^  when,  as 
bottom  crust,  it  is  made  still  worse,  by  being  soaked,  or 
slack  baked.  Still,  as  this  work  does  not  profess  to  leave 
out  unhealthy  dishes,  but  only  to  set  forth  an  abundance 
of  healthful  ones,  and  the  reasons  for  preferring  them, 
the  best  directions  will  be  given  for  making  the  best 
kinds  of  paste. 


128  racH  puddings  and  pies. 

Healthful  Pie  Crusts. 

Good  crusts  for  plain  pies  aie  made  by  wetting-  up  the 
crust  with  rich  iTiiik  turned  sour,  and  sweetened  with 
salcratus.  Still  better  crusts  are  made  of  sour  cream 
sweetened  with  saleratus. 

Mealy  potatoes  boiled  in  salted  water,  and  mixed  with 
the  same  quantity  of  flour,  and  wet  Avith  sour  milk 
sweetened  with  saleratus,  make  a  good  crust. 

Good  light  bread  rolled  thin,  makes  a  good  crust  for 
pandowdy,  or  pan  pie,  and  also  for  the  upper  crust  of 
fruit  pies,  to  be  made  without  bottom  crusts. 

Paste  made  luith  Butter. 

Very  plain  paste  is  made  by  taking  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  for  every  pound  of  iiour.  Still  rich- 
er allows  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butler  to  a  pound 
of  flour.  Very  rich  paste  has  a  pound  of  butter  to  a 
pound  of  flour. 

Directions  for  making  Paste. 

Take  a  quarter  of  the  butter  to  be  used,  rub  it 
thoroughly  into  the  flour,  and  wet  it  with  cold  wa- 
ter to  a  stiff  paste. 

Next  dredge  the  board  thick  with  flour,  and  cut  up 
the  remainder  of  the  butter  into  thin  shces.  and  lay  them 
upon  the  floui-,  and  dredge  flour  over  thick,  and  then  roll 
out  the  butter  into  thin  sheets  and  lay  it  aside. 

Then  roll  out  the  paste  thin,  cover  it  with  a  sheet  of 
this  rolled  butter,  dredge  on  more  flour,  fold  it  up,  and 
roll  it  out,  and  then  repeat  the  process  till  all  the  butter 
is  used  up. 

Paste  should  be  made  as  quick  and  as  cold  as  possible. 
Some  use  a  maible  table  in  order  to  keep  it  cold.  Roll 
from  you  every  time. 

Puff  Paste. 

Dissolve  a  bit  of  sal  volatile,  the  size  of  a  hickory- 
nut,  in  cold  water.  Take  three  quarters  of  a  p(nmd 
of  butter  for  every  quart  of  flour,  and  rub  in  one  cpiar- 
ter  of  the  butter,  and  wet  it   up  with  cold  water,  add- 


RICH    rUDDINGS    A^'D    PIES.  129 

ing  the  salts  when  cool.  Roll  all  the  rest  of  the  butter 
into  sheets  as  directed  above.  Roll  the  paste  three  times, 
eacli  time  laying  over  it  one-third  of  the  butter  sheets,  and 
dredging  on  flour,  as  directed  above.  In  rolling  it,  always 
voW  from  you,  and  not  towards  you. 

SAUCES    FOR    PUDDINGS. 

Liquid  Saiice. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Ten  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  wine. 

Nutmeg,  or  lemon,  or  orange  peel,  or  rose  water,  to 
flavor. 

Heat  the  v/ater  and  sugar  very  hot.  Stir  in  the  but- 
ter till  it  is  melted,  but  be  careful  not  to  let  it  boil.  Add 
the  wine  and  nutmeg  just  before  it  is  used. 

Hard  Sauce. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Ten  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Work  this  till  white,  then  add  wine  and  spice  to  your 
taste. 

A  Healthful  Pudding'  Sauce. 

Boil  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  some  orange  or  lemon 
peel,  or  peach  leaves.  Take  them  out  and  pour  in  a 
thin  paste,  made  with  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  boil 
five  minutes.  Then  put  in  a  pint  of  brown  sugar,  and 
let  it  boil.  Then  put  in  two  spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  a 
glass  of  wine,  and  take  it  up  before  it  boils. 

Ail  excellent  Sauce  for  Boiled  Rice. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  into  sugar  enough  to 
make  it  quite  sweet.  Add  a  tea-cup  of  cream,  and  the 
grated  peel  and  juice  of  two  lemons.  When  lemons  can- 
not be  had,  use  dried  lemon  peel,  and  a  little  tartaric 
acid.  This  is  a  good  sauce  for  other  puddings,  especial- 
ly for  the  starch  minute  pudding. 


130  PLAIN    CAKES. 

The  first  receipt  for  whip  syllabub  furnishes  a  very 
deHcate  sauce  for  a  delicate  pudding,  such  as  the  one 
made  of  potato  starch. 

Sweetened  crearn  flavored  with  grated  lemon  peel  or 
nutmeg  is  a  fine  pudding  sauce. 


CHAPTER    XIV. 


PLAIN    CAKES. 


General  Directions  for  Making  Cake, 

Tie  up  your  hair  so  that  none  can  fall,  put  on  a  long- 
sleeved  apron,  have  the  kitchen  put  in  order,  and  then 
arrange  all  the  articles  and  utensils  )^ou  will  have  occa- 
sion to  use. 

If  you  aie  a  systematic  and  thrifty  housekeeper,  you 
will  have  your  sugar  pounded,  all  your  spices  ready 
prepared  in  boxes,  or  bottles,  your  saleratus  sifted, 
your  currants  washed  and  dried,  your  ginger  sifted,  and 
your  weights,  measures,  and  utensils  all  in  their  place 
and  in  order. 

Butter  your  tins  before  beginning  to  make  the  cake, 
so  as  not  to  stop  for  the  purpose.  It  saves  much  trouble 
to  have  your  receipt  book  so  arranged  that  you  can 
measure  instead  of  weighing.  This  can  be  done  by 
weighing  the  first  time,  and  then  have  a  small  measure 
cup,  and  fill  it  with  each  ingredient  you  have  weighed. 
Then  note  it  down  in  your  receipt  book,  and  ever  after 
use  the  same  measure  cup. 

Always  sift  your  flour,  for  neither  bread  nor  cake 
should  be  made  with  unsifted  flour,  not  merely  because 
there  may  be  dirt  in  it,  but  because  packing  injures  its 
lightness,  and  sifting  restores  it,  and  makes  bread  and 
cake  lighter. 

The  day  before  you  wish  to  make  cake,  stone  your 
raisins,  and  blanch  your  almonds,  by  pouring  hot  water 


PLAIN    CAKES.  131 

on  them,  to  take  oflf  the  skins,  and  then  throwing  them 
into  cold  water  to  whiten  them.  When  ready  to  make 
your  cake,  grate  your  lemon  or  orange  peel.  Next  weigh 
your  butter  and  cut  it  in  pieces,  and  put  it  where  it  will 
soften,  but  not  melt.  Then  butter  your  tins.  Next, 
stir  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  then  add  the  sugar,  and 
work  till  white.  Next,  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  strain 
them,  and  put  them  to  the  sugar  and  butter.  Mean- 
time another  person  should  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  put  them  in.  Then  add  the  spices  and  flour, 
and  last  of  all  the  fruit,  as  directed  below. 

Do  not  use  the  hand  to  make  cake,  but  a  wood  spoon 
or  spad.     Earthen  is  best  to  make  cake  in. 

In  receipts  where  milk  is  used,  never  mix  sweet  and 
sour  milk,  as  it  makes  cake  heavy,  even  w4ien  either 
alone  would  not  do  it. 

Butter  in  the  least  degree  strong,  spoils  cake. 

Try  whether  cake  is  done  by  piercing  it  with  a  broom 
splinter,  and  if  nothing  adheres  it  is  done. 

An  oven,  to  bake  cake  well,  must  have  a  good  heat  at 
bottom,  and  not  be  too  hot  on  the  top,  or  the  cake  will  be 
lieavy.  As  these  receipts  have  all  been  proved,  if  they 
fail  to  make  good  cake,  the  fault  is  probably  in  the 
baking. 

Cake  that  is  to  be  frosted,  should  be  baked  in  pans 
with  perpendicular  instead  of  slanting  sides.  Line  them 
with  buttered  paper,  the  salt  soaked  out  of  the  butter. 
If  the  oven  proves  too  hot,  cover  the  top  with  paper  be- 
fore it  hardens,  or  the  cake  will  be  heavy. 

The  best  way  to  put  in  fruit  is  to  sprinkle  flour  over 
it,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  cake  at  the  bottom,  half  an  inch 
thick,  then  a  layer  of  fruit,  taking  care  that  it  does  not 
touch  the  sides  of  the  pan,  and  thus  dry  up  ;  then  a  lit- 
tle more  cake,  then  another  layer  of  fruit,  and  thus  till 
the  cake  is  three  inches  thick  (not  more),  and  let  the  top 
layer  be  cake. 

Always  dissolve  saleratus,  or  sal  volatile,  in  hot  water, 
as  milk  does  not  perfectly  dissolve  it,  and  thus  there  will 
be  yellow  specks  made. 


132  PLAIN    CAKES. 

Make  your  eggs  cold,  and  whisk  till  they  will  stand 
in  a  heap. 

Volatile  alkali  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  and  a  bit  of 
alum  of  equal  size,  powdered  and  dissolved  in  cold  water, 
will  ensure  light  bread  or  cake. 

A  quick  oven  is  so  hot  that  you  can  count  moderately 
only  tvv^enty ;  and  a  slow  one  allows  you  to  count  thirty, 
while  you  hold  your  hand  in  it. 

All  cake  without  yeast  should  have  the  flour  put  in 
quickly,  just  as  it  goes  into  the  oven. 

Keep  cake  in  a  tin  box,  or  in  a  stone  jar  wrapped  in 
clean  linen. 

Rose  Butter. 

Take  a  glass  jar,  put  on  the  bottom  a  layer  of  butter, 
and  each  da}^  put  in  rose  leaves,  adding  layers  of  but- 
ter, and  when  full,  cover  tight,  and  use  the  butter  for  ar- 
ticles to  be  flavored  with  rose  water. 

Directions  for  Cleansiiig  Currants. 

Put  them  in  warm,  not  hot  water,  and  lub  them 
thoroughly.  Take  out  all  but  the  bottom  part  into  an- 
other pail  of  water.  Then  rinse  those  remaining  in  the 
bottom  of  the  first  water,  through  two  or  three  waters, 
as  this  part  contains  most  of  the  impure  parts.  Then 
put  them  into  the  other  pail  with  the  first  portion,  and 
rinse  all  very  thoroughly.  Take  them  out  with  tlie 
hands,  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and  spread  them  on 
a  clean  large  cloth  on  a  table.  Rub  them  drv  with  the 
ends  of  the  cloth,  and  then  sit  down  and  pull  off  the  good 
ones  into  a  dish  in  your  lap,  and  push  the  poor  ones 
aside,  being  careful  to  look  for  the  little  stones.  Spread 
them  to  dry  on  a  board,  or  large  dishes,  and  set  them  in 
the  sun,  or  any  warm  place,  to  dry.  Then  tie  them  up 
in  a  jar  for  future  use. 

Frosting  for  Cake. 

For  the  whites  of  every  two  eggs,  take  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sifted  loaf  sugar.  Some  use  only  one  egg  for 
this  quantity  of  sugar. 


PLAIN    CAKES.  133 

Make  the  eggs  cold  in  cold  water,  and  free  them  from 
all  of  the  yolk.  Beat  the  whites  in  a  cool  place,  till  a 
very  stilf  frotli.  Sift  the  sugar,  and  beat  it  in  until  you 
can  pile  it  in  a  heap.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  rose  wa- 
ter. Allow  two  whites  for  each  common-sized  loaf. 
Spread  on  with  a  knife,  after  the  cake  is  cool,  and  then 
smooth  with  another  knife  dipped  in  water.  Set  it  in 
a  warm  place  to  dry.  The  ornamental  filagree  work  on 
frosting  is  easily  done  by  using  a  small  syringe.  Drav/ 
it  full  of  the  above  frosting,  and  as  you  press  it  out 
make  figures  to  your  taste.  It  must  not  be  put  on  till 
the  frosting  of  the  cake  is  hardened. 

Cake  Frosting  {another^  tvhich  is  harder). 

To  the  white  of  each  egg,  put  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  of  starch,  and  nine  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  silted 
white  sugar. 

Cut  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  the  sugar  and  starch, 
and  stir  in  gradually  ;  continue  to  stir  ten  minutes  after  it 
is  mixed,  add  two  teaspoonfulsof  lemon  juice,  and  flavor  it 
with  rose  water.  Put  it  on  with  a  knife  when  the  cake 
has  stood  out  of  the  oven  twenty  minutes,  and  then  set 
it  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Allow  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  for  two  cakes  of  common  size. 

Good  ChiWs  Cake. 

Three  cups  raised  dough. 

One  cup  of  molasses. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  or  one  nut- 
meg. 

Half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  put  with  the  molasses. 

Two  well-beaten  eggs. 

A  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  two  spoonfuls  of  hot 
water. 

Work  all  together,  put  into  buttered  pans,  and  set  into 
the  oven  immediately. 

Put  in  the  lemon  juice  just  before  you  put  it  in  the 
pans. 

If  you  do  not  have  lemon  juice,  add  a  great  spoonful 

12 


{ 


134  PLAL\    CAKES. 

of  sharp  vinegar,  after  working  the  ingredients  together, 
and  just  before  putting  it  into  pans.  The  lemon  juice 
must  be  added  the  last  minute.  Some  think  this  is  im- 
proved by  standing  to  rise  fifteen  minutes.  Try  and 
see. 

Ginger  Snaps, 

One  cup  of  molasses. 

Half  a  cup  of  sugar. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter. 

Half  a  cup  of  warm  water,  the  butter  melted  with  it. 

A  small  teaspoonful  of  pearlash,  dissolved  in  the  wa- 
ter. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger. 

The  dough  should  be  stiff;  knead  it  well,  and  roll 
into  sheets,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

Child's  Feather  Cake. 

Three  cups  of  hght  dough. 

Two  cups  rolled  sugar. 

Three  well-beaten  eggs,  mixed  with  the  sugar  and 
butter. 

Half  a  cup  of  warm  milk,  or  a  little  less. 

One  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  two  great  spoonfuls  of 
water,  and  put  in  the  milk. 

One  cup  of  melted  butter,  worked  into  the  sugar. 

The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Work  all  together,  adding  the  lemon  juice  just  before 
putting  it  in  buttered  pans.  If  you  have  no  lemons,  use 
one  nutmeg,  and  a  tablespoon ful  of  sharp  vinegar,  ad- 
ded just  before  putting  it  in  pans.  One  and  a  half,  if 
the  vinegar  is  weak.  Some  think  this  improved  by 
standing  to  rise  fifteen  minutes.     Try  it. 

Best  Molasses  Gingerbread. 

One  even  tablespoonful  of  strong  ginger,  and  two  if 
weak. 

A  gill  and  a  half  of  milk. 

One  heaping  teaspoonful  saleratus,,  very  fine,  dissolv- 


PLAIN    CAKES.  135 

ed  in  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water,  and  put  into   the 

milk. 

Half  a  pint  of  molasses,  and  a  small  tea-cup  full  of 

butter. 

Take  three  pints  of  flour,  and  rub  the  butter  and  gin- 
ger into  it  thoroughly.  Then  make  a  hole  in  the  mid- 
dle, and  pour  in  the  molasses  and  milk,  and  begin  mix- 
ing in  the  flour,  and  while  doing  this,  put  in  a  great 
spoonful  of  strong  vinegar,  and  if  it  is  weak,  a  httlemore. 
If  not  stiff  enough  to  roll  out,  add  a  little  more  flour. 
Roll  it  into  cards  an  inch  thick,  and  put  it  into  two  but- 
tered square  pans.  Bake  it  in  a  flat  tin  pan,  and  put  it, 
if  the  oven  is  quite  hot,  on  a  muffin  ring,  to  keep  it  from 
burning  at  the  bottom,  and  allow  from  twenty-five  to 
thirty  minutes  for  baking.  When  done,  set  it  on  its 
edge,  or  on  a  sieve,  to  cool. 

Sponge  Gingerbread, 

One  pint  of  molasses. 

Two  great  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 

One  even  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

A  heaping  tablespoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  as 
much  hot  water. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk,  the  saleratus  first  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  and  put  into  it. 

Make  a  hole  in  the  flour,  and  put  in  all  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  while  working  them  together,  add  a  great 
spoonful  of  good  vinegar,  or  if  weak,  one  and  a  half. 

Cider  Cake. 

One  tea-cup  of  butter. 

Three  tea-cups  of  sugar. 

Two  tea-cups  of  sifted  flour. 

A  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  two  great  spoonfuls  of 
water. 

A  grated  nutmeg,  and.Ahalf  a  tea-cup  of  milk,  with 
the  saleratus  in  it.  Make  a  hole  in  the  flour,  and  put  in 
all  the  ingredients,  and  while  mixing  them,  add  a  tea- 
cup of  cider  and  four  more  cups  of  flour. 


J^ 


136  PLAIN   CAKES. 

Cup  Cake  loithout  Egg's. 

One  cup  of  butter.  • 

Two  cups  of  sug-ar. 

One  cup  of  sour  cieam,  or  sour  milk. 

Sal  volatile,  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg,  or  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  saleratu^!,  dissolved  in  cold  water. 

A  gill  of  brandy  or  wine,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon. 

Flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter. 

Put  in  buttered  pans  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Cream  Cake  without  Eggs. 

Four  cups  of  flour. 

Three  cups  of  sugar. 

One  cup  of  butter. 

Two  cups  of  sour  cream. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  sal  volatile,  or  three  of  saleratus, 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water. 

A  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  and  half  a  grated 
nutmeg. 

Work  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  cream 
and  spice,  and  put  all  into  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
flour.  Then  add  the  sal  volatile,  or  saleratus.  Mix 
quick  and  thoroughly,  and  set  in  the  oven  immediately. 

Cream  Tartar  Cake,  witliout  Eggs. 

Three  pints  of  sifted  flour,  mccisured  after  sifting. 

One  teaspoonful  super  carbonate  of  soda. 

A  salt  spoonful  of  salt. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar. 

A  cup  and  a  half  of  milk. 

A  pint  of  rolled  sugar. 

Mix  the  cream  tartar  thorouglily  with  the  flour,  and 
add  grated  lemon  peel,  or  nutmeg  ;  then  dissolve  the 
soda  in  two  gieat  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  and  put  it  with 
the  sugar  to  the  milk.  When  dissolved,  wet  it  up  as 
quick  as  possible,  but  so  as    to   mix  very  thoroughly. 


PLAIN   CAITES.  137 

Roll  it  out,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  bake  immediate- 
ly.  It  must  be  as  soli  as  can  be  rolled.  Add  a  Utile 
more  ilour,  il'  nccdfu*;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  iificen  or 
twciity  minutes.  Try  more  tban  once,  as  you  may  fail 
at  first.  VVIicn  you  get  tbe  knack  it  is  easy,  sure*  and 
very  good. 

Fruit  Cake  without  Eggs. 

Two  pounds  of  flour. 

One  and  (liree  (juartcr  pounds  of  sugar. 

One  pint  of  milk. 

Tf.'ilf  a  pound  of  butter. 

Haifa  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

One  and  a  lialf  teaspoonfuls  of  sodn,  or  saleratus,  or 
two  of  sal  volatil^,  dissolveii  In  a  little  bot  water. 

One  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  raisins,  and  one  wine-glass 
of  biarjdy.     Tbis  makes  tbrec  loaves. 

Warm  tbe  milk,  and  add  tbe  l)utter  and  salt  to  it. 
Work  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  tben  add 
(be  milk,  (ben  tbe  Hour,  tben  tbe  saleratus,  and  lastly 
tbe  spice  and  fruit. 

Drop  Cake. 

Four  and  a  balf  tea-cups  of  flour. 

Two  and  a  balf  (ea-cujjs  of  sugar. 

Haifa  cup  of  butter,  and  five  eggs. 

Work  tbe  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  beat  tbe  yolks 
and  wbites  separately;  add  (be  yolks,  (ben  tbe  wbiles, 
(lien  tbe  (lour.  Drop  tbem  on  a  buttered  tin,  and  sjirin- 
kle  caraway  sugar  plums  on  the  top. 

AS'?/o'«r  Gingerbread  {rich). 

One  pound  of  sugar. 

One  pound  of  sifted  flour. 

Haifa  pound  of  butter. 

Six  eggs. 

Two  even  tablespoon fuls  of  ginger. 

Rub  tbe  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  (he  eggs  well 

L/C 


138  PLAIN    CAKES. 

beaten,  the  flour  and  ginger,  and  bake  in  two  square 
tin  sheets. 

Sugar  Gingerbread  {plainer). 

Two  cups  of  sugar. 

One  cup  of  butter,  rubbed  with  the  sugar. 

One  cup  of  milk. 

Two  eggs. 

One  teaspoonful  of  pearlash  in  hot  water. 

Three  tables poonfuls  of  ginger. 

Five  cups  of  flour. 

Make  it  a  soft  dough,  and  add  more  flour  if  needed. 

Sjjonge  Cake. 

Twelve  eggs. 

The  weight  of  ten  in  powdered  loaf  sugar. 

The  weight  of  six  in  sifted  flour. 

The  grated  peel,  and  half  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Stir  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar,  until  very 
light,  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  after  they  are 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  lightly  together,  flavor  with 
the  lemon,  sprinkle  in  the  flour  just  before  it  is  to  be  put 
into  the  oven,  stirring  it  in  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Bake  in  two  square  tin  pans,  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
which  should  be  covered  with  white  paper,  well  but- 
tered. 

Weigh  it  once,  then  get  the  measure  of  the  propor- 
tions, to  save  the  trouble  of  weighing  afterward. 

The  secret  of  making  good  sponge  cake  lies  in  putting 
the  flour  in  the  last  minute  before  it  goes  into  the  oven, 
and  having  a  good  bake. 

Bridget's  Bread  Cake  {excellent). 

Three  cups  of  dough,  very  hght. 

Three  cups  of  sugar. 

One  cup  of  butter. 

Three  eggs.     A  nutmeg.     Raisins. 


PLAIN    CAKES.  139 

One  teaspoonful  of  peailash,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  eggs  and 
spice,  and  mix  all  thoroughly  with  the  dough.  Beat  it 
well,  and  pour  into  the  pans.  It  will  do  to  bake  it  im- 
mediately, but  the  cake  will  be  lighter  if  it  stands  a  short 
time  to  rise,  before  putting  it  into  the  oven.  It  is  an  ex- 
cellent cake  for  common  use. 

It  is  very  imjwrlant  that  the  ingredients  should  be 
thoroughly  mixed  with  the  dough. 

Doughnuts. 

One  pound  of  butter. 

One  pound  and  three  quarters  of  sugar,  worked  with 
the  butter. 

Three  pints  of  milk. 

Four  eggs. 

One  pint  of  yeast,  if  home-made,  or  half  a  pint  of  dis- 
tillery yeast. 

Mace  and  cinnamon  to  the  taste. 

Flour  enough  to  make  the  dough  stiff  as  biscuit. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  set  the  dough  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
When  thoroughly  light,  roll  into  sheets,  cut  with  a  sharp 
knife  into  diamond-shaped  pieces,  and  boil  them  in  fresh 
lard.  Use  a  good  deal  of  lard,  and  have  it  sufficiently 
hot,  or  the  cake  will  absorb  the  fat. 

Cookies  {plain). 

Two  cups  of  sugar. 

One  cup  of  butter,  worked  into  the  sugar. 

One  cup  of  milk. 

Two  eggs. 

Caraway  seeds. 

A  small  teaspoonful  of  pearlash,  dissolved  in  a  httle 
hot  water. 

Flour  sufficient  to  roll. 

The  dough  should  be  well  kneaded  before  it  is  rolled 
into  sheets. 


140  "  PLAIN    CAKES. 

French  Cake. 

Five  cups  of  flour. 

Two  cups  of  poVdered  sugar. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter. 

One  cup  of  milk. 

Oue  wine-glass  of  wine. 

Three  eggs.     Spice  to  the  taste. 

A  teaspoonful  of  pearlash. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  milk, 
part  of  the  flour,  and  the  pearl-ash  dissolved  in  wine  ; 
afterward  the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  the  eggs.  The 
yolks  are  to  l)e  beaten  separately,  and  the  whites  beaten 
and  put  in  the  last  thing.     Bake  in  two  square  tin  pans. 

Wahiut  HilVs  Doughnuts. 

One  tea-cup  of  sour  cream,  or  milk. 

Two  tea-cups  of  sugar. 

One  tea-cup  of  butter. 

Four  eggs,  and  one  nutmeg. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  saleratus. 

Flour  enough  to  roll. 

Cut  into  diamond  cakes,  and  boil  in  hot  lard.   ' 

Cocoanut  Cup  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  rolled  white  sugar,  and  one  and  a  half  of 
butter. 

One  cup  of  milk,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  dis- 
solved in  hot  water. 

Four  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  nutmeg.  Or  flavor 
with  rose  water. 

The  white  part  of  one  cocoanut,  grated 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiflf  batter. 

Beat  it  well,  put  it  in  buttered  tins,  an  inch  thick,  in 
a  quick  oven,  and  when  done,  frost  it,  and  cut  it  in- 
square  pieces. 

Cocoanut  Sponge  Cake. 

One  grated  cocoanut,  the  outer  part  peeled  off. 
A  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg. 


PLAIN    CAKES.  141 

A  pint  of  sifted  white  sugar. 

Six  eggs,  the  yolks  beat  and  strained,  the  whites  cut 
to  a  stiii*  froth. 

One  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon. 

A  half  a  pint  of  sifted  flour. 

Mix  the  yolks  and  the  sugar,  and  then  the  other  in- 
gredients, except  the  whites  and  the  flour.  Just  as  you 
are  ready  to  put  the  cake  in  the  oven,  put  in  the  whites, 
then  add  the  flour  by  degrees,  and  stir  only  just  enough 
to  mix  it ;  then  put  it  on  buttered  paper  in  cake  pans, 
and  set  it  in.  Have  a  quick  oven,  but  take  care  not  to 
have  the  top  harden  quick.  Cover  with  paper  if  there 
is  any  danger. 

Lemon  Cake. — No.  1. 

Four  tumblers  of  flour. 

Two  and  a  hdiU  oi  powdered  white  sugar. 

Three  quarters  of  a  tumbler  of  butter. 

One  tumbler  of  milk,  two  lemons,  three  eggs,  and  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Saleratus  will  do,  but  is 
not  so  good  as  soda. 

This  serves  for  two  square  loaves.  Dissolve  the  soda 
in  the  milk,  heat  the  yolks,  and  strain  them.  Cut  the 
whites  to  a  sti.^T  froth,  w^ork  the  butter  and  sugar  till  they 
look  like  cream,  then  add  the  yolks,  then  the  milk,  then  the 
whites  of  eggs,  and  then  the  flour.  When  thoroughly 
mixed,  grate  in  the  peel  of  one  lemon,  and  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  two,  and  this  must  not  be  done  till  it  is  ready 
to  set  immediately  into  the  oven. 

A  tumbler  and  a  half  of  currants  improves  this  cake. 
Put  them  in  with  the  lemon  juice. 

This  is  delicious  when  first  baked,  but  will  not  keep 
so  well  as  No.  2,  which  is  richer. 

Gingernuts, 

Six  pounds  of  flour. 

One  pound  and  a  quarter  of  butter,  rubbed  into  the 
sugar. 

One  pound  and  three  quarters  of  sugar. 
One  quart  of  molasses. 


142  PLAIN    CAKES. 

Four  ounces  of  ginger,  one  nutmeg,  and  some  cinna- 
mon. 

The  dough  should  be  stiff,  and  then  kneaded  hard  for 
a  long  time.  Cut  into  small  cakes.  They  will  keep 
good,  closely  covered  in  a  stone  jar,  for  many  months. 

Honey  Cake. 

One  quart  of  strained  honey. 

Half  a  pint  of  sugar. 

Half  a  pint  of  melted  butter. 

A  teaspoon ful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  half  a  tea-cup 
of  warm  water. 

Half  a  nutmeg,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger. 

Mix  the  above,  ^nd  then  work  in  sifted  flour  till  you 
can  roll  it.  '  Cut  it  into  thin  cakes,  and  bake  it  on  but- 
tered tins,  in  a  quick<oven. 

New  Yearns  Cookies. 

One  pound  of  butter. 

A  pound  and  three  quarters  of  sugar. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  saleratus,  in  a  pint  of  milk  (but- 
termilk is  better). 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add  the 
milk  and  saleratus.  Then  beat  three  eggs,  and  add, 
and  grate  in  one  nutmeg.  Rub  in  a  heaping  tablespoon 
of  caraway  seed.  Add  flour  enough  to  roll.  Make  it 
one  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  bake  imme- 
diately  in  a  quick  oven. 

Boston  Cream  Cake. 

One  pint  of  butter  rubbed  into  one  quart  of  flour. 

One  quart  of  hot  water,  with  the  butter  and  flour  stir- 
red in. 

When  cool,  break  in  from  six  to  twelve  eggs,  as  you 
can  afford. 

If  needed,  add  flour  till  thick  enough  to  drop  on  but- 
tered tins  in  round  cakes,  the  size  of  a  tea-cup. 

When  baked,  open  and  fill  with  soft  custard,  or  mock 
cream. 


PLAIN   CAKES.  143 

Almond,  Hickory^  01^  Cocoanut  Cake. 

Half  a  pound  of  flour.  .  Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

One  pound  of  sugar. 

One  tea-cup  of  sour  cream,  or  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk. 

Four  eggs,  and  lemon,  or  any  other  flavor  to  your 
taste. 

A  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  or  better,  a  bit  of  sal  vola- 
tile, the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  dissolved  in  two  spoonfuls  of 
hot  water. 

Mix  the  above  thoroughly,  then  grate  in  the  white 
part  of  a  cocoanut,  or  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  chopped  hick- 
ory-nuts, chopped  fine,  or  put  in  a  pound  of  blanched  al- 
monds, pounded,  but  not  to  a  paste.  Put  it  in  buttered 
pans,  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Caraway  Cakes. 

Two  quarts  of  flour. 

One  cup  of  butter. 

One  quart  of  rolled  sugar. 

Half  a  pint  of  caraway  seeds. 

A  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  other 
materials,  roll  out,  and  cut  into  square  cakes,  and  crimp 
the  edges. 

Sal  volatile  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water,  improves  this. 

Fruit  Drop  Cakes. 

Two  pounds  of  flour. 

One  pound  of  butter. 

One  pound  of  currants. 

One  pound  of  sugar.     Three  eggs. 

A  teaspoonful  each,  of  rose  water,  and  essence  of  lem- 
on, and  a  gill  of  brandy. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Beat  the  eggs, 
and  add  them.     Then  put  in  the  other  articles.     Strew 


144  PLAIN    CAKES. 

till  sheets  with  flour  and  powdered  sugar,  and  then  drop 
on  in  small  cakes.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Dr.  B:s  Loaf  Cake. 

Two  pounds  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

A  pint  of  new  milk,  blood  warm. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 

A  pint  of  home-brewed  yeast,  or  half  as  much  distil- 
lery yeast. 

Three  eggs,  and  one  pound  of  stoned  raisins. 

A  glass  of  wine  and  a  nutmeg. 

Work  the  butter  an^d  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  then  rub 
them  well  into  the  flour.  Then  add  the  other  things, 
and  let  it  rise  over  night.  Bake  an  hour  and  a  half,  in 
a  slack  oven.  Put  the  fruit  in  as  directed  in  the  receipt 
for  raised  loaf  cake. 

FaMcy  Cakes. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  into  half  a  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Add  a  little  less  than  a  half  a  pound  of 
flour.  Beat  fifteen  minutes,  and  then  put  in  some  es- 
sence of  lemon,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Bake  in  small  patties,  and  put  sugar  plums  on 
the  top. 

Fried  Curd  Cakes. 

Stir  four  well-beaten  eggs  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk. 
Make  it  very  sweet,  and  cool  it.  Then  stir  in  two  even 
tea-cups  full  of  sifted  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lem- 
on, and  two  more  well-beaten  eggs.  Fry  these  in  sweet 
butter  as  drop  cakes. 

Wine  Cake. 

Put  six  ounces  of  sugar  into  a  pint  of  wine,  and  make 
it  boiHng  hot.  When  blood  warm,  pour  it  on  to  six 
well-beaten  eggs,  and  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sift- 
ed flour.  Beat  it  well,  and  bake  immediately  in  a  quick 
oven. 


PLAIN    CAKES.  145 

Egg  Rusk. 

Melt  three  ounces  of  butter  into  a  pint  of  milk.  Beat 
six  eggs  into  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Mix  these 
with  flour  enough  for  a  batter,  and  add  a  gill  of 
distillery  yeast,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When 
light,  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to 
mould.  Make  them  into  small  cakes,  and  let  them  rise 
in  a  warm  place  while  the  oven  is  heating. 

Citron  Tea  Cakes. 

One  tea-cup  of  sugar. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter. 

Two  cups  of  flour. 

A  bit  of  volatile  salts,  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  dissolved 
in  hot  water  (the  same  quantity  of  alum  dissolved  with 
it,  improves  it),  and  put  to  half  a  cup  of  milk. 

Beat  till  light,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of 
lemon,  and  small  thin  strips  of  citron,  or  candied  lemon 
peel. 

Bake  in  shallow  pans,  or  small  patties. 

French  Biscuit  {Mrs.  Dr.  C). 

Six  pounds  of  flour. 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk. 

Six  ounces  of  butter. 

A  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar. 

A  teaspoonful  of  salt.  ^ 

Six  eggs,  and  half  a  pint  of  distillery  yeast,  or  twice 
as  much  home-brewed. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  milk,  and  beat  the  eggs.  Then 
add  all  the  ingredients,  set  it  to  rise,  and  when  very 
light,  mould  it  into  small  biscuits,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

13 


148  KICII    CAKES. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

RICH    CAKES. 

Old  Hartford  Election  Cake  (100  j/ears  old). 

Five  pounds  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

Two  pounds  of  butter. 

Two  pounds  of  sugar. 

Three  gills  of  distillery  yeast,  or  twice  the  quantity  of 
home-brewed. 

Four  eggs. 

A  gill  of  wine  and  a  gill  of  brandy. 

Half  an  ounce  of  nutmegs,  and  two  pounds  of  fruit. 

A  quart  of  milk. 

Rub  the  butter  very  fine  into  the  flour,  add  half 
the  sugar,  then  the  yeast,  then  half  the  milk,  hot  in 
winter,  and  blood  warm  in  summer,  then  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  the  wine,  and  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  Beat 
it  well,  and  let  it  stand  to  rise  all  night.  Beat  it  well  in 
the  morning,  adding  the  brandy,  the  sugar,  and  the 
spice.  Let  it  rise  three  or  four  hours,  till  very  light. 
When  you  put  the  v/ood  into  the  oven,  put  the  cake  in 
buttered  pans,  and  put  in  the  fruit  as  directed  previously. 
If  you  wish  it  richer,  add  a  pound  of  citron. 

Raised  Loaf  Cake. 

Six  pounds  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

Three  pounds  of  sugar. 

Two  pounds  and  a  half  of  butter. 

Four  eggs,  and  two  pounds  of  raisins. 

Four  nutmegs. 

Two  gills  of  wine,  and  two  gills  of  brandy. 

In  the  afternoon,  mix  the  butter  and  sugar,  take  half 
of  it  and  rub  into  the  flour  ;  take  about  a  quart  of  milk, 
blood  warm,  put  the  5'east  into  the  flour,  then  wet  it  up. 


RICH    CAKES.  147 

"VMien  fully  light,  add  the  rest  of  the  butter  and  sugar, 
beat  the  eggs,  and  put  them  in,  and  set  the  whole  to 
rise  till  morning.  Add  the  brandy,  wine,  and  spice,  in 
the  morning,  and  put  it  in  the  pans.  The  fruit  is  to  be 
added  in  this  way: — First  dredge  it  with  flour,  then 
put  in  enough  cake  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pans, 
then  sprinkle  some  fruit,  and  do  not  let  any  of  it 
rest  against  the  pan,  as  it  burns,  and  is  thus  wasted. 
Tlien  continue  to  add  a  layer  of  fruit  and  a  layer  of 
cake,  having  no  fruit  on  the  top.  This  saves  those 
that  usually  burn  on  the  pan,  and  secures  a  more  equal 
distribution. 

Mrs.  H.^s  Raised  Wedding  Cake  {very  fine). 

Nine  pounds  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 
Four  and  a  half  pounds  of  white  sugar. 
Four  and  a  half  pounds  of  butter. 
Two  quarts  of  scalded  milk. 
One  quart  of  the  yeast,  fresh  made  as  below. 
tSix  eggs. 

Six  pounds  of  raisins. 
Two  pounds  of  citron. 
One  ounce  of  mace. 
One  gill  of  brandy. 
,  One  gill  of  wine. 

Put  the  ingredients  together  as  directed  in  the  Rais- 
ed Loaf  Cake. 

Yeast  for  the  above  Cake. 

Nine  large  potatoes,  peeled,  boiled,  and  mashed  fine. 

One  quart  of  water,  a  very  small  pinch  of  hops. 

Boil  all  together,  strain  through  a  sieve,  add  a  small 
tea-cup  of  flour,  and.  when  blood  warm,  half  a  pint  of 
distillery  yeast,  or  twice  as  much  home-brewed.  Strain 
again,  and  let  it  work  till  very  light  and  foaming. 

Fruit- "Oake,  or  Black  Cake. 

One  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter.  • 

One  pound  of  flour,  sifted. 


148  RICH    CAKES. 

Twelve  eggs. 

Two  pounds  of  raisins,  stoned,  and  part  of  them  chop- 
ped. 

Two  pounds  of  currants,  carefully  cleaned. 

Half  a  pound  of  citron,  cut  into  strips. 

A  quarter  of  an  ounce  each,  of  cinnamon,  nutmegs,  and 
cloves,  mixed. 

One  wine-glass  of  wine,  and  one  wine-glass  of  brandy. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  part  of  the  flour,  the  spice,  and  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  add  the  remainder  of  the 
flour,  and  the  wine  and  brandy.  Mix  all  thoroughly 
together.  Cover  the  bottom  and  sides  of  two  square 
tin  pans  with  white  paper,  well  buttered,  pour  the  mix- 
ture in,  adding  the  fruit  as  formerly  directed,  first  dredg- 
ing it  with  flour,  and  bake  four  hours.  After  it  is  taken 
from  the  oven,  and  a  little  cooled,  ice  it  thickly. 

Pmmd  Cake. 

One  pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar. 

One  pound  of  sifted  flour. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

Eight  eggs,  and  one  nutmeg. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  very  light, 
then  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  spice,  and  part  of  the 
flour.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff*  froth,  and 
stir  in  with  the  remainder  of  the  flour.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether, and  bake  in  small  tins,  icing  the  cakes  when 
they  are  a  little  warm. 

Fr^ench  Loaf  Cake. 

Five  cups  of  powdered  sugar. 

Three  cups  of  fresh  butter. 

Two  cups  of  milk. 

Six  eggs.  ^ 

Ten  cups  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

One  wine-glass  of  wine,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy. 

Three  nutmegs,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  pearlash. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  a  Quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron. 


RICH    CAKES.  149 

Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  then  add  part  of 
the  flour,  with  the  milk  a  httle  warm,  and  the  beaten  yolks 
of  the  eggs.  Then  add,  with  the  remainder  of  the  flour, 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  the  spice,  wine,  bran- 
dy, and  pearlash.  Mix  all  thoroughly  together,  add  the 
fruit,  as  you  put  it  into  the  pans.  This  will  make  four 
loaves.     Bake  about  an  hour,  and  then  ice  them. 

Portugal  Cake. 

One  pound  powdered  loaf  sugar. 

One  pound  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 

Eight  eggs. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  or  white  wine. 

One  pound  of  fruit. 

One  nutmeg. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  of  almonds,  weighed  before 
shelling. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Beat  the  whites 
and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately.  Then,  by  degrees,  put 
in  the  flour,  and  add  the  lemon  juice  last,  stirring  all 
lightly  together.  If  almonds  are  to  be  used,  they  should 
be  blanched.     Pound  the  almonds,  or  cut  into  shreds. 

Golden  Cake. 

This  and  the  following  cake  are  named  from  gold  and 
silver,  on  account  of  their  color  as  well  as  their  excellence. 

They  should  be  made  together,  so  as  to  use  both  por- 
tions of  the  eggs. 

To  make  golden  cake^  take 

One  pound  of  flour,  dried  and  sifted. 

One  pound  of  sugar. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

The  yolks  of  fourteen  eggs. 

The  yellow  part  of  two  lemons  grated,  and  the  juice 
also. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add  the 
yolks,  well  beaten  and  strained.  Then  add  the  lemon 
peel  and  flour,  and  a  teaspoonfid  of  sal  volatile,  dissolved 

13* 


150  RICH   CAKES. 

in  a  little  hot  water.  Beat  it  well,  and  just  before  put- 
ting it  into  the  oven  add  the  lemon  juice,  beating  it  in 
very  thoroughly. 

Bake  in  square  flat  pans,  ice  it  thickly,  and  cut  it  in 
square  pieces.  It  looks  finely  on  a  dish  with  the  silver  cake. 

Silver  Cake. 

One  pound  of  sugar. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

Six  ounces  of  butter. 

Mace  and  citron. 

The  whites  of  fourteen  eggs. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  whites 
cut  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  then  the  flour.  It  is  a  beautiful- 
looking  cake. 

Shrew shury  Cake, 

One  pomid  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 

Five  eggs. 

Rose  water,  or  grated  lemon  peel. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Then  add  the 
eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  and  add 
the  flour. 

Qiieen^s  Cake. 

One  pound  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

One  pound  of  sugar. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 

Four  eggs.     One  nutmeg. 

One  gill  of  wine. 

One  gill  of  brand}^ 

One  gill  of  thin  cream. 

One  pound  of  fruit. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Beat  separately 
the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs.  Mix  all  the  ingre- 
dients, except  the  flour  and  fruit,  which  must  be  put  in 
just  before  putting  in  the  oven.  This  makes  two  three- 
pint  pans  full.     It  requires  one  hour  and  a  half  to  bake. 


RICH    CAKES.  151 

Crullars. 

Five  cups  of  flour. 

One  cup  of  butter. 

Two  cups  of  sugar. 

Four  eggs. 

One  spoonful  of  rose  water.     Nutmeg. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  eggs,  the 
whites  and  yoll^s  beaten  separately,  then  the  flour.  Roll 
into  a  sheet  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  this  with  a 
jagging-iron  into  long  narrow  strips.  Twist  them  into 
various  shapes,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard,  of  a  hght 
brown.  The  fat  must  be  abundant  in  quantity,  and 
very  hot,  to  prevent  the  lard  from  soaking  into  the  cake. 

Lemofi  Cake. — No.  2. 

One  pound  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

One  pound  of  sugar. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

Seven  eggs. 

The  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  the  peel  of  two. 

This  makes  two  loaves. 

Beat  and  strain  the  yolks,  cut  the  whites  hard,  work 
the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Fruit  if  wished.  A 
tumbler  and  a  half  of  currants  is  enough. 

This  is  richer  than  No.  1,  and  keeps  well. 

Almond  Cake. 

One  pound  of  sifted  sugar. 

The  yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  beat  and  mixed  wi§i  the 
sugar. 

The  whites  of  nine  eggs,  added  to  the  above  in  a  stiff 
froth. 

A  pound  of  dried  and  sifted  flour,  mixed  after  the  above 
has  been  stirred  ten  minutes. 

Half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  half  a  dozen  bit- 
ter ones,  blanched  and  pounded  with  rose  water  to  a 
cream. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  tliick  cream. 


152  RICH    CAKES. 

Use  the  reserved  whites  of  eggs  for  frosting. 
This  makes  one  large,  or  two  small  loaves. 

Lemon  Drop  Cakes. 

Three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  white  sugar. 
A  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour. 
The  grated  rinds  of  three  lemons. 
The  white  of  one  egg  well  beaten ;  all  mixed. 
Drop   on  buttered  paper,   and  bake   in   a  moderate 
oven. 

Jelly  Cake. 

Half  a  pound  of  sifted  white  sugar. 

Six  ounces  of  butter. 

Eight  eggs,  whites  beat  to  a  stiff  froth.  Yolks  beat 
and  strained. 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

One  pound  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

Work  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the 
eggs,  then  the  flour,  and  then  the  lemon  juice.  Butter 
tin  scolloped  pans,  and  put  in  this  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick.  Bake  a  light  brown,  and  pile  them  in  layers, 
with  jelly  or  marmelade  between. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

One  pound  grated  cocoanut,  only  the  white  part. 

One  pound  sifted  white  sugar. 

The  whites  of  six  eggs,  cut  to  a  stiff  froth. 

You  must  have  enough  whites  of  eggs  to  wet  the 
whole  |itiff. 

Drop  on  buttered  plates  the  size  of  a  cent,  and  bake 
immediately. 

Sugar  Drops. 

Twelve  spoonfuls  of  butter. 
Twenty-four  spoonfuls  of  sifted  white  sugar. 
A  pint  of  sifted  flour. 

Half  a  nutmeg,  and  three  eggs,  the  whites  beaten 
separately. 


PRESERVES    AND   JELLIES.  15- 


Mix  the  batter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs, 
then  the  flour,  drop  on  buttered  tins,  and  put  sugar  plums 
on  the  top.     Bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

PRESERVES    AND   JELLIES. 

General  Directions  for  making  Preserves  and  Jellies. 

Gather  fruit  when  it  is  dry. 

Long  boiling  hardens  the  fruit. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  sieves  used,  and  wring 
out  jelly-bags  in  hot  water  the  moment  you  are  to  use 
them. 

Do  not  squeeze  while  straining  through  jelly-bags. 

Let  the  pots  and  jars  containing  sweetmeats  just  made 
remain  uncovered  three  days. 

Lay  brandy  papers  over  the  top,  cover  them  tight,  and 
seal  them,  or,  what  is  best  of  all,  soak  a  split  bladder 
and  tie  it  tight  over  them.  In  drying,  it  will  shrink  so 
as  to  be  perfectly  air-tight. 

Keep  them  in  a  dry,  but  not  warm  place. 

A  thick  leathery  mould  helps  to  preserve  fruit,  but 
when  mould  appears  in  specks,  the  preserves  must  be 
scalded  in  a  warm  oven,  or  be  set  into  hot  water,  which 
then  must  boil  till  the  preserves  are  scalded. 

Always  keep  watch  of  preserves  which  are  not^Ksaled, 
especially  in  warm  and  damp  weather.  The  only  sure 
way  to  keep  them  without  risk  or  care,  is  to  make  them 
with  enough  sugar  and  seal  them,  or  tie  bladder  covers 
over. 

To  Clarify  Symp  for  Sweetmeats. 

For  each  pound  of  sugar,  allow  half  a  pint  of  water. 
For  every  three  pounds  of  sugar,  allow  the  white  of 
one  egg. 


154  PRESERVES    AND    JELLIES. 

Mix  when  coldj  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  skim  it.  Let 
it  stand  ten  minutesj  and  skim  it,  tlien  strain  it. 

Brandy  Peaches. 

Prick  the  peaches  with  a  needle,  put  them  into  a  ket- 
tle with  cold  water,  scald  them  until  sufficiently  soft  to 
be  penetrated  with  a  straw.  Take  half  a  pound  of  su- 
gar to  every  pound  of  peach  ;  make  the  syrup  with  the 
sugar,  and  while  it  is  a  httle  warm,  mix  two-thirds  as 
much  of  white  brandy  with  it.  put  the  fruit  into  jars, 
and  pour  the  syrup  over  it.  The  late  white  clingstones 
are  tie  best  to  use. 

Peaches  {not  very  rich). 

To  six  pounds  of  fruit,  put  fiv^e  of  sugar.  Make  the 
syrup.  Boil  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  till  it  is  clear.  If  the 
fruit  is  ripe,  half  an  hour  will  cook  it  sufficiently. 

Peaches  {very  elegant). 

First  take  out  the  stones,  then  pare  them.  To  every 
pound  of  peaches,  allow  one-third  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Make  a  thin  syrup,  boil  the  peaches  in  the  syrup  till  ten- 
der, but  not  till  they  break.  Put  them  into  a  bowl,  and 
pour  the  syrup  over  them.  Put  them  in  a  dry,  cool 
place,  and  let  them  stand  two  days.  Then  make  a  new 
rich  syrup,  allowing  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  one  of  fruit.  Drain  the  peaches  from  the  first  syrup, 
and  boil  them  until  they  are  clear,  in  the  last  syrup. 
The  first  syrup  must  not  be  added,  but  may  be  used  for 
any  other  purpose  you  please,  as  it  is  somewhat  bitter. 
The  iftge  white  clingstones  are  the  best. 

To  preserve  Quinces  Whole. 

Select  the  largest  and  fairest  quinces  (as  the  poorer 
ones  will  answer  for  jelly).  Take  out  the  cores  and 
pare  them.  Boil  the  quinces  in  water  till  tender.  Take 
them  out  separately  on  a  platter.  To  each  pound  of 
quince,  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Make  the  syrup,  then 
boil  the  quinces  in  the  syrup  until  clear. 


PRESERVES    AND    JELLIES.  155 

Quince  Jelly. 

Rub  the  quinces  with  a  cloth,  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Remove  the  cores,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  pack  them 
light  in  your  kettle,  pour  cold  water  on  them  until  it  is 
on  a  level  with  the  fruit,  but  not  to  cover  it ;  boil  till 
very  soft,  but  not  till  they  break. 

Then  dip  off  all  the  liquor  you  can,  then  put  the 
fruit  into  a  sieve,  and  press  it,  and  drain  off  all  the  re-_ 
maining  liquor. 

Then  to  a  pint  of  the  Hquor  add  a  pound  of  sugar,  and 
boil  it  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  it,  as  soon  as  cool,  into 
small  jars,  or  tumblers.  Let  it  stand  in  the  sun  a  few 
days,  till  it  begins  to  dry  on  the  top.  It  will  continue  to 
harden  after  it  is  put  up. 

Calf's  Foot  JelUj. 

To  four  nicely-cleaned  calf's  feet,  put  four  quarts  of 
water  ;  let  it  simmer  gently  till  reduced  to  two  quarts, 
then  strain  it,  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  Then  take  off 
all  the  fat  and  sediment,  melt  it,  add  the  juice,  and  put 
in  the  peel  of  three  lemons,  and  a  pint  of  wine,  the  whites 
of  four  eggs,  three  sticks  of  cinna  *".ion,  and  sugar  to  your 
taste.  Boil  ten  minutes,  then  sK:im  out  the  spice  and 
lemon  peel,  and  strain  it. 

The  American  gelatine,  now  very  common,  makes  as 
good  jelly,  with  far  less  trouble,  and  in  using  it  you  only 
need  to  dissolve  it  in  hot  water,  and  then  sweeten  and 
flavor  it. 

To  preserve  Apples, 

Take  only  tart  and  well-flavored  apples,  peel,  and 
take  out  the  cores  without  dividing  them,  and  then 
parboil  them.  Make  the  syrup  with  the  apple  water, 
allowing  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to 
every  pound  of  apples,  and  boil  some  lemon  peel  and 
juice  in  the  syrup.  Pour  the  syrup,  while  boiUng,  on 
to  the  apples,  turn  them  gently  while  cooking,  and 
only  let  the  syrup  simmer,  as  hard  boiling  breaks  the 


156  PRESERVES    AND    JELLIES. 

fruit.     Take  it  out  when  the  apple  is  tender  through. 
At  the  end  of  a  week  boil  them  once  more  in  the  syrup. 

Pear. 

Take  out  the  cores,  cut  off  the  stems,  and  pare  them. 
Boil  the  pears  in  water,  till  they  are  tender.  Watch 
them,  that  they  do  not  break.  Lay  them  separately  on 
a  platter  as  you  take  them  out.  To  each  pound  of  fruit, 
take  a  pound  of  sugar.  Make  the  syrup,  and  boil  the 
fruit  in  the  syrup  till  clear. 

Pifieapjyle  {very  fine). 

Pare  and  grate  the  pineapple.  Take  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  fruit  and  sugar.  Boil  them  slowly  in  a  sauce- 
pan for  half  an  hour. 

Puiyle  Plum. — No.  1. 

Make  a  rich  syrup.  Boil  the  plums  in  the  syrup  very 
gently  till  they  begin  to  crack  open.  Then  take  them 
from  the  syrup  into  a  jar,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them. 
Let  them  stand  a  few  days,  and  then  l3oil  them  a  sec- 
ond time,  very  gently. 

To  preserve  Oranges. 

Boil  the  omnges  in  soft  water  till  you  can  run  a  straw 
through  the  skin. 

Clarify  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each 
pound  of  fruit,  take  the  oranges  from  the  water,  and 
pour  over  them  the  hot  syrup,  and  let  them  stand  in  it 
one  night.  Next  day,  boil  them  in  the  syrup  till  it  is 
thick  and  clear.  Then  take  them  up,  and  strain  the 
syrup  on  to  them. 

Purple  Phim. — No.  2. 

Take  an  equal  weight  of  fruit,  and  nice  brown  su- 
gar. Take  a  clean  stone  jar,  put  in  a  layer  of  fruit  and 
a  layer  of  sugar,  till  all  is  in.  Cover  them  tightly  with 
dough,  or  other  tight  cover,  and  put  them  in  a  brick 


PRESERVES   AND   JELLIES.  157 

oven  after  you  have  baked  in  it.  If  you  bake  in  the 
morning,  put  the  plums  in  the  oven  at  evening,  and 
let  them  remain  till  the  next  morning.  When  you 
bake  again,  set  them  in  the  oven  as  before.  Uncover 
them,  and  stir  them  carefully  with  a  spoon,  and  do  as 
not  to  break  them.  Set  them  in  the  oven  thus  the 
third  time,  and  they  will  be  sufficiently  cooked. 

White,  or  Gree7i  Plum. 

Put  each  one  into  boihng  water,  and  rub  off  the  skin. 
Allow  a  pound  of  fruit  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Make  a 
syrup  of  sugar  and  water.  Boil  the  fruit  in  the  syrup 
until  clear,  about  twenty  minutes.  Let  the  syrup  be 
cold  before  you  pour  it  over  the  fruit.  They  can  be 
preserved  without  taking  off  the  skins,  by  pricking 
them.  Some  of  the  kernels  of  the  stones  boiled  in  give 
a  pleasant  flavor. 

Citron  Melon. 

Two  fresh  lemons  to  a  pound  of  melon.  Let  the  su- 
gar be  equal  in  weight  to  the  lemon  and  melon.  Take 
out  the  pulp  of  the  melon,  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices,  and 
boil  it  in  fair  water  till  tender.  Take  it  out  and  boil 
the  lemon  in  the  same  water  about  twenty  minutes. 
Take  out  the  lemon,  add  the  sugar,  and,  if  necessary,  a 
little  more  water.  Let  it  boil.  When  clear,  add  the  mel- 
on, and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes. 

Strawberries. 

Look  them  over  with  care.  Weigh  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Put  a  layer  of  fruit  on  the  bot- 
tom of  the  preserving  kettle,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  and  so 
on  till  all  is  in  the  pan.  Boil  them  about  fifteen  minutes. 
Put  them  in  bottles,  hot,  and  seal  them.  Then  put 
them  in  a  box,  and  fill  it  in  with  dry  sand.  The  flavor  of 
the  fruit  is  preserved  more  perfectly,  by  simply  packing 
the  fruit  and  sugar  in  alternate  layers,  and  sealing  the 

14 


158  PRESERVES    AND   JELLIES. 

jar.  without  cooking.     But  the  preserves  do  not  look  so 
well. 

Blackberry  Jam, 

Allow  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit.  Boil  the  fruit  half  an  hour,  then  add 
the  sugar,  and  boil  all  together  ten  minutes. 

To  preserve  Currants  to  eat  with  Meat. 

Strip  them  from  the  stem.  Boil  them  an  hour,  and  then 
to  a  pound  of  the  fruit,  add  a  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Boil 
all  together  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Cherries. 

Take  out  the  stones.  To  a  pound  of  fruit,  allow  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Put  a  layer  of  fruit  on  the  bottom  of 
the  preserving  kettle,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  and  continue 
thus  till  all  are  put  in.  Boil  till  clear.  Put  them  in  bottles, 
hot,  and  seal  them.     Keep  them  in  dry  sand. 

Currants. 

Strip  them  from  the  stems.  Allow  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  pound  of  currants.  Boil  them  together  ten  minutes. 
Take  them  from  the  syrup,  and  let  the  syrup  boil  twen- 
ty minutes,  and  pour  it  on  the  fruit.  ,  Put  them  in  small 
jars,  or  tumblers,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  sun  a  few 
days. 

Raspberry  Jam. — No.  1. 

Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Press 
them  with  a  spoon,  in  an  earthen  dish.  Add  the  sugar, 
and  boil  all  together  fifteen  minutes. 

Raspberry  Jam. — No.  2. 

Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Boil 
the  fruit  half  an  hour,  or  till  the  seeds  are  soft.  Strain 
one  quarter  of  the  fruit,  and  tlirow  away  the  seeds. 
Add  the  sugar,  and  boil  the  whole  ten  minutes.     A  lit- 


PRESERVES   AND   JELLIES.  159 

tie  currant  juice  gives  it  a  pleasant  flavor,  and  when 
that  is  used,  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  must  be  added. 

Currant  Jelly, 

Pick  over  the  currants  with  care.  Put  them  in  a 
stone  jar,  and  set  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Let 
it  boil  till  the  fruit  is  very  soft.  Strain  it  through  a 
sieve.  Then  run  the  juice  through  a  jelly-bag.  Put  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice,  and  boil  it  together 
five  minutes.     Set  it  in  the  sun  a  few  days. 

Quince  Marmalade. 

Rub  the  quinces  with  a  cloth,  cut  them  in  quarters. 
Put  them  on  the  fire  with  a  little  w^ater,  and  stew  them 
till  they  are  sufficiently  tender  to  rub  them  through  a 
sieve.  When  strained,  put  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  to 
a  pound  of  tlie  pulp.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  cook 
slowly.  To  ascertain  when  it  is  done,  take  out  a  little 
and  let  it  get  cold,  and  if  it  cuts  smoothly  it  is  done. 

Crab-apple  marmalade  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Crab-apple  jelly  is  made  like  quince  jelly. 

Most  other  fruits  are  preserved  so  much  like  the  pre- 
ceding, that  it  is  needless  to  give  any  more  particular 
directions,  than  to  say  that  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit  is  the  general  rule  for  all  preserves  that  are  to  be 
kept  through  warm  weather,  and  a  long  time. 

Preserved  Watermelon  Rinds. 

This  is  a  fine  article  to  keep  well  without  trouble  for  a 
long  time.  Peel  the  melon,  and  boil  it  in  just  enough 
water  to  cover  it  till  it  is  soft,  trying  with  a  fork.  (If  3^ou 
wish  it  green,  put  green  vine  leaves  above  and  below 
each  layer,  and  scatter  powdered  alum,  less  than  half  a 
teaspoonful  to  each  pound.) 

Allow  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
rind,  and  clarify  it  as  directed  previously. 

Simmer  the  rinds  two  hours  in  this  syrup,  and  flavor 
it  with  lemon  peel  grated  and  tied  in  a  bag.  Then  put 
the  melon  in  a  tureen,  and  boil  the  syrup  till  it  looks 


160  PICKLES. 

thick,  and  pour  it  over.  Next  day,  give  the  syrup  an- 
other boiUng,  and  put  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  each 
quart  of  syrup.  Take  care  not  to  make  it  bitter  by  too 
much  of  the  peel. 

Citrons  are  preserved  in  the  same  manner.  Both 
these  keep  through  hot  weather  with  very  little  care  in 
sealing  and  keeping. 

Preserved  Pumpkin. 

Cut  a  thick  yellow  pumpkin,  peeled,  into  strips  two 
inches  wide,  and  five  or  six  long. 

Take  a  pound  of  white  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit, 
and  scatter  it  over  the  fruit,  and  pour  on  two  wine-glass- 
es of  lemon  juice  for  each  pound  of  pumpkin. 

Next  day,  put  the  parings  of  one  or  two  lemons  with 
the  fruit  and  sugar,  and  boil  the  whole  three  quarters  of 
an  hour,  or  long  enough  to  make  it  tender  and  clear 
without  breaking.  Lay  the  pumpkin  to  cool,  strain  the 
syrup,  and  then  pour  it  on  to  the  pumpkin. 

If  there  is  too  much  lemon  peel,  it  will  be  bitter. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

PICKLES. 

Do  not  keep  pickles  in  common  earthen  ware,  as  the 
glazing  contains  lead,  and  combines  with  the  vinegar. 

Vinegar  for  pickling  should  be  sharp,  but  not  the 
sharpest  kind,  as  it  injures  the  pickles.  If  you  use  cop- 
per, bell  metal,  or  brass  vessels  for  pickling,  never  allow 
the  vinegar  to  cool  in  them,  as  it  then  is  poisonous.  Add 
a  tablespoonful  of  alum  and  a  tea-cup  of  salt  to  each 
Ihree  gallons  of  vinegar,  and  tie  up  a  bag  with  pepper, 
ginger-root,  and  spices  of  all  sorts  in  it,  and  you  have 
vinegar  prepared  for  any  kind  of  common  piclding. 

Keep  pickles  only  in  wood,  or  stone  ware. 


PICKLES.  161 

Anything  that  has  held  grease  will  spoil  pickles. 

Stir  pickles  occasionally,  and  if  there  are  soft  ones, 
take  them  out  and  scald  the  vinegar,  and  pour  it  hot 
over  the  pickles.  Keep  enough  vinegar  to  cover  them 
well.  If  it  is  weak,  take  fresh  vinegar,  and  pour  on  hot. 
Do  i^ot  boil  vinegar  or  spice  over  five  minutes. 

To  Pickle  Tomatoes, 

As  you  gather  them,  throw  them  into  cold  vinegar. 
When  you  have  enough,  take  them  out,  and  scald  some 
spices  tied  in  a  bag,  in  good  vinegar,  and  pour  it  hot 
over  them. 

To  Pickle  Peaches. 

Take  ripe  but  hard  peaches,  wipe  off  the  down,  stick 
a  few  cloves  into  them,  and  lay  them  in  cold  spiced  vin- 
egar. In  three  months  they  will  be  sufficiently  pickled, 
and  also  retain  much  of  their  natural  flavor. 

To  Pickle  Peppers. 

Take  green  peppers,  take  the  seeds  out  carefull}',  so 
as  not  to  mangle  them,  soak  them  nine  days  in  salt  and 
water,  changing  it  every  day,  and  keep  them  in  a  warm 
place.  Stuff  them  w^ith  chopped  cabbage,  seasoned  with 
cloves,  cinnamon,  and  mace  ;  put  them  in  cold  spiced 
vinegar. 

To  Pickle  Nasturtions. 

Soak  them  three  days  in  salt  and  water  as  you  col- 
lect them,  changing  it  once  in  three  days,  and  when 
you  have  enough,  pour  off  the  brine,  and  pour  on  scald- 
ing hot  vinegar. 

To  Pickle  Onions. 

Peel,  and  boil  in  milk  and  water  ten  minutes,  drain 
off  the  milk  and  water,  and  pour  scalding  spiced  vinegar 
on  to  them. 

14* 


162  PICKLES. 

To  Pickle  Gherkins. 

Keep  them  in  strong  brine  till  they  are  yellow,  then 
take  them  out  and  turn  on  hot  spiced  vinegar,  and  keep 
them  in  it  in  a  warm  place,  till  they  turn  green.  Then 
turn  off  the  vinegar,  and  add  a  fresh  supply  of  hot^  spi- 
ced vinegar. 

To  Pickle  Mushrooms. 

Stew  them  in  salted  water,  just  enough  to  keep  them 
iiom  sticking.  When  tender,  pour  off  the  water,  and 
pour  on  hot  spiced  vinegar.  'Fhen  cork  them  tight  if 
you  wish  to  keep  them  long.  Poison  ones  will  turn 
JDlack  if  an  onion  is  stewed  with  them,  and  then  all 
must  be  thrown  away. 

To  Pickle  Cucumbers. 

Wash  the  cucumbers  in  cold  water,  being  careful  not 
to  bruise,  or  break  them.  Make  a  brine  of  rock,  or 
blown  salt  (rock  is  the  best),  strong  enough  to  bear  up 
an  Qgg^  or  potato,  and  of  sufficient  quantity  to  cover  the 
cucumbers. 

Put  them  into  an  oaken  tub,  or  stone-ware  jar,  and 
pour  the  brine  over  them.  In  twenty-four  hours,  they 
should  be  stirred  up  from  the  bottom  with  the  hand. 
The  third  day  pour  off  the  brine,  scald  it,  and  pour  it 
over  the  cucumbers.  Let  them  stand  in  the  brine  nine 
days,  scalding  it  every  third  day,  as  described  above. 
Then  take  the  cucumbers  into  a  tub,  rinse  them  in  cold 
water,  and  if  they  are  too  salt,  let  them  stand  in  it  a 
few  hours.  Drain  them  from  the  water,  put  them  back 
into  the  tub  or  jar,  which  must  be  washed  clean  from 
the  brine.  Scald  vinegar  sufficient  to  cover  them,  and 
pour  it  upon  them.  Cover  them  tight,  and  in  a  week  they 
will  be  ready  for  use.  If  spice  is  wanted,  it  maybe  tied 
in  a  linen  cloth,  and  put  into  the  jar  with  the  pickles,  or 
scalded  with  the  vines^ar,  and  tlie  baor  thrown  info  the 
pickle  jar.  If  a  white  scum  rises,  take  it  off  and  scald 
the  vinegar,  and  pour  it  back.     A  small  lump  of  alum 


PICKLES.  163 

added  to  the  vinegar,  improves  the  hardness  of  the  cu- 
cumbers. 

Pickled  Walnuts. 

Take  a  hundred  nuts,  an  ounce  of  cloves,  an  ounce 
of  allspice,  an  ounce  of  nutmeg,  an  ounce  of  whole  pep- 
per, an  ounce  of  race  ginger,  an  ounce  of  horseradish,  half 
pint  of  mustard  seed,  tied  in  a  bag,  and  four  cloves  of 
garlic. 

Wipe  the  nuts,  prick  with  a  pin,  and  put  them  in  a 
pot,  sprinkling  the  spice  as  you  lay  them  in  ;  then  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt ;  boil  sufficient  vinegar  to  fill 
the  pot,  and  pour  it  over  the  nuts  and  spice.  Cover  the 
jar  close,  and  keep  it  for  a  year,  when  the  pickles 
will  be  ready  for  use. 

Butternuts  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  if  they 
are  taken  when  green,  and  soft  enough  to  be  stuck 
through  with  the  head  of  a  pin.  Put  them  for  a  week 
or  two  in  weak  brine,  changing  it  occasionally.  Before 
putting  in  the  brine,  rub  them  about  with  a  broom  in 
brine  to  cleanse  the  skins.  Then  proceed  as  for  the 
Avalnuts. 

The  vinegar  makes  an  excellent  catsup. 

Mmigoes. 

Take  the  latest  growth  of  young  muskmelons,  take 
out  a  small  bit  from  one  side,  and  empty  them.  Scrape 
the  outside  smooth,  and  soak  them  four  days  in  strong 
salt  and  water.  If  you  Vv^sh  to  green  them,  put  vine 
leaves  over  and  under,  with  bits  of  alum,  and  steam 
them  a  while.  Then  powder  cloves,  pepper,  and  nut- 
meg in  equal  portions,  and  sprinkle  on  the  inside,  and 
fill  them  with  strips  of  horseradish,  small  bits  of  cala- 
mus, bits  of  cinnamon  and  mace,  a  clove  or  two,  a  very 
small  onion,  nasturtions,  and  then  American  mustard- 
seed  to  fill  the  crevices.  Put  back  the  piece  cut  out.  and 
sew  it  on,  and  then  sew  the  mango  in  cotton  cloth. 
Lay  all  in  a  stone  jar,  the  cut  side  upwaid. 

Boil  sharp  vinegar  a  few  minutes,  with  half  a  tea-cup 
of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  alum  to  three  gallons  of 


164  PICKLES. 

vinegar,  and  turn  it  on  to  the  melons.  Keep  dried  bar 
berries  ibr  garnishes,  and  when  you  use  them  turn  a  ht- 
tle  of  the  above  vinegar  of  the  mangoes  heated  boiling 
hot  on  to  them,  and  let  them  swell  a  few  hours.  Sliced 
and  salted  cabbage  with  this  vinegar  poured  on  hot  is 
very  good. 

Fine  Pickled  Cabbage. 

Shred  red  and  white  cabbage,  spread  it  in  layers  in  a 
stone  jar,  with  salt  over  each  layer.  Put  two  spoonfuls 
of  whole  black  pepper,  and  the  same  quantity  of  allspice, 
cloves,  and  cinnamon,  in  a  bag,  and  scald  them  in  two 
quarts  of  vinegar,  and  pour  the  vinegar  over  the  cab- 
bage, and  cover  it  tight.     Use  it  in  two  days  after. 

A}i  excellent    Way  of  Preparing  Tomatoes  to  eat 

with  Meat, 

Peel  and  slice  ripe  tomatoes,  sprinkling  on  a  little  salt 
as  you  proceed.  Drain  off  the  juice,  and  pour  on  hot 
spiced  vinegar. 

,  To  Pickle  Martinoes. 

Gather  them  when  you  can  run  a  pin  head  into 
them,  and  after  wiping  them,  keep  them  ten  days  in 
weak  brine,  changing  it  every  other  day.  Then  wipe 
them,  and  pour  over  boiling  spiced  vinegar.  In  four 
weeks  they  will  be  ready  for  use.     It  is  a  fine  pickle. 

A  convenient  Way  to  Pickle  Cucumbers. 

Put  some  spiced  vinegar  in  a  jar,  with  a  little  salt  in  it. 

Every  time  you  gather  a  mess,  pour  boiling  vinegar 
on  them,  with  a  little  alum  in  it.  Then  put  them  in 
the  spiced  vinegar.  Keep  the  same  vinegar  for  scald- 
ing all.  When  you  have  enough,  take  all  from  the 
spiced  vinegar,  and  scald  in  the  alum  vinegar  two  or 
three  minutes,  till  green,  and  then  put  them  back  in 
the  spiced  vinegar. 

Indiana  Pickles. 
Take  green  tomatoes,  and  slice  them.     Put  them  in 


ARTICLES     FOR    DESSERTS,    ETC.  165 

a  basket  to  drain  in  layers,  with  salt  scattered  over  them 
say  a  tea-cup  full  to  each  gallon.  Next  day,  slice  one 
quarter  the  quantity  of  onions,  and  lay  the  onions  and 
tomatoes  in  alternate  layers  in  a  jar,  with  spices  inter- 
vening. Then  fill  the  jar  with  cold  vinegar.  Toma- 
toes picked  as  they  ripen,  and  just  thrown  into  cold 
spiced  vinegar,  are  a  fine  pickle,  and  made  with  very 
little  trouble. 

To  Pickle  Catdijlower,  or  Brocoli. 

Keep  them  twenty- four  hours  in  strong  brine,  and 
then  take  them  out  and  heat  the  brine,  and  pour  it  on 
scalding  hot,  and  let  them  stand  till  next  day.  Drain 
them,  and  throw  them  into  spiced  vinegar. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

ARTICLES    FOR    DESSERTS    AND    EVENING   PARTIES. 

Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  milk. 

One  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot. 

The  grated  peel  of  two  lemons. 

One  quart  of  thick  cream. 

Wet  the  arrowroot  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  add  it  to 
the  quart  of  milk  when  boiling  hot;  sweeten  it  very 
sweet  with  white  sugar,  put  in  the  grated  lemon  peel, 
boil  the  whole,  and  strain  it  into  the  quart  of  cream. 
When  partly  frozen,  add  the  juice  of  the  two  lemons. 
Twice  this  quantity  is  enough  for  thirty-five  persons. 
Find  the  quantity  of  sugar  that  suits  you  by  measure, 
and  then  you  can  use  this  every  time,  without  tasting. 
Some  add  whites  of  eggs,  others  think  it  just  as  good 
without.  It  must  be  made  very  sweet,  as  it  loses  much 
by  freezing. 


166  ARTICLES  FOR  DESSERTS 

Directions  for  freezing  Ice  Cream, 

If  you  have  no  apparatus  for  the  purpose  (which  is 
almost  indispensable),  put  the  cream  into  a  tin  pail  with 
a  very  tight  cover,  mix  equal  Cjuantities  of  snow  and 
blown  salt  (not  the  coarse  salt),  or  of  pounded  ice  and  salt, 
in  a  tub,  and  put  it  as  high  as  the  pail,  or  freezer  ; 
turn  the  pail  or  freezer  half  round  and  back  again  with 
one  hand,  for  half  an  hour,  or  longer,  if  you  want  it  very 
nice.  Three  quarters  of  an  hour  steadily,  will  make  it 
good  enough.  While  doing  this,  stop  four  or  five  times, 
and  mix  the  frozen  part  with  the  rest,  the  last  time  very 
thoroughl}^,  and  then  the  lemon  juice  must  be  put  in. 
Then  cover  the  freezer  tight  with  snow  and  salt  till  it  is 
wanted.  The  mixture  must  be  perfectly  cool  before  be- 
ing put  in  the  freezer.  Renew  the  snow  and  salt  w^hile 
shaking,  so  as  to  have  it  kept  tight  to  the  sides  of  the 
freezer.  A  hole  in  the  tub  holding  the  freezing  mixture 
to  let  off  the  water,  is  a  great  advantage.  In  a  tin  paii 
it  w^ould  take  much  longer  to  freeze  than  in  the  freezer, 
probably  nearly  twice  as  long,  or  one  hour  alid  a  half. 
A  long  stick,  like  a  coffee  stick,  should  be  used  in  scra- 
ping the  ice  from  the  sides.  Iron  spoons  will  be  affected 
by  the  lemon  juice,  and  give  a  bad  taste. 

In  taking  it  out  for  use,  first  wipe  oflf  every  particle  of 
the  freezing  mixture  dry,  then  with  a  knife  loosen  the 
sides,  then  invert  the  freezer  upon  the  dish  in  wiiich  the  ice 
is  to  be  served,  and  apply  two  towels  lung  out  of  hot 
water  to  the  bottom  part,  and  the  whole  will  slide  out  in 
the  shape  of  a  cyhnder. 

If  you  wish  to  put  it  into  moulds,  pour  it  into  them 
when  the  cream  is  frozen  sufficiently,  and  then  cover 
the  moulds  in  the  snow  and  salt  till  they  are  wanted. 
Dip  the  moulds  in  warm  water  to  make  the  ice  slip  out 
easil}^ 

If  you  wish  to  have  a  freezer  made,  send  the  follow- 
ing directions  to  a  tinner. 

Make  a  tin  cyUnder  box,  eighteen  inches  high  and 
eight  inches  in  diameter  at  the  bottom,  and  a  trifle  lar- 
ger at  the  top,  so  that  the  frozen  cream  will  slip  out  easier. 


AND    EVENING    TARTIES.  ]tJ7 

Have  a  cover  made  with  a  rim  to  lap  over  three  inches, 
and  fitted  tight.  Let  tliere  be  a  round  handle  fastened  to 
the  lid,  an  inch  in  diameter,  and  reaching  nearly  across, 
to  take  hold  of,  to  stir  the  cream.  This  will  cost  from 
fifty  to  seventy-five  cents. 

The  tub  holding  the  ice  and  freezer  should  have  a 
hole  in  the  bottom,  to  let  the  water  run  off,  and  through  the 
whole  process  the  ice  must  be  close  packed  the  whole 
depth  of  the  freezer. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream. 

Two  quarts  of  milk  (cream  when  you  have  it). 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot. 

The  whites  of  eight  eggs  w^ell  beaten. 

One  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

Boil  the  milk,  thicken  it  with  the  arrowroot,  add  the 
sugar,  and  pour  the  whole  upon  the  eggs.  If  you  wish 
it  flavored  with  vanilla,  spUt  half  a  bean,  and  boil  it  in 
the  milk. 

Another  Ice  Cream. 

Three  quarts  of  milk. 

Two  pounds  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar. 

Twelve  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Mix  all  together  in  a  tin  pail,  add  one  vanilla  bean 
(split),  then  put  the  pail  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and 
stir  the  custard  all  the  time,  until  it  is  quite  thick.  After  it 
is  cooled,  add  two  quarts  of  rich  cream,  and  then  freeze  it. 

Straioherry  Ice  Cream. 

Rub  a  pint  of  ripe  strawberries  through  a  sieve,  add 
a  pint  of  cream,  and  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and 
freeze  it. 

Ice  Cream  loithout  Cream. 

A  vanilla  bean,  or  a  lemon  rind,  is  first  boiled  in  a 
quart  of  milk.  Take  out  the  bean  or  peel,  and  add  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  well.     Heat  it  scalding  hot, 


168  ARTICLES    For.    DESSERTS 

but  do  not  boil  it,  stirring  in  white  sugar  till  very  sweet. 
When  coldj  freeze  it. 

Fruit  Ice  Cream. 

Make  rich  boiled  custard,  and  mash  into  it  the  soft  ripe 
fruit,  or  the  grated  or  cooked  hard  fruit,  or  grated  pineap- 
ples. Rub  all  through  a  sieve,  sweeten  it  very  sweet,  and 
freeze  it.  (Quince,  apple,  pear,  peach,  strawberry,  and 
raspberry,  are  all  good  for  this  purpose. 

Rich  Custards, 

One  quart  of  cream. 

The  yolks  of  six  eggs. 

Six  ounces  of  powdered  w^hite  sugar. 

A  small  pinch  of  salt. 

Two  tablespoon fuls  of  brandy. 

One  spoonful  of  peach  water. 

Half  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  brandy. 

An  ounce  of  blanched  almonds,  pounded  to  a  paste. 

Mix  the  cream  with  the  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  well  beaten,  scald  them  together  in  a  tin  pail  in 
boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time,  until  sufficiently 
thick.  When  cool,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  pour 
into  custard  cups. 

Wine  Cream  Custard. 

Sweeten  a  pint  of  cream  with  sifted  sugar,  heat  it,  stir 
in  white  wine  till  it  curdles,  add  rose  water,  or  grated 
lemon  peel  in  a  bag,  heated  in  the  milk.  Turn  it  into 
cups. 

Or,  mix  a  pint  of  milk  with  the  pint  of  cream,  add 
five  beaten  eggs,  a  vspoonful  of  flour  wet  with  milk,  and 
sugar  to  your  taste.     Bake  this  in  cups,  or  pie  plates. 

Almond  Custard. 

Blanch  and  pound  four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  and 
a  few  of  the  bitter.  Boil  them  five  minutes  in  a  quart 
of  milk,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  and  when  blood  warm, 
stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  eight  egg^,  and  the  whites  of 


*  AND    EVENING   PARTIES.  169 

four.  Heal  it,  and  stir  till  it  thickens,  then  pour  into 
cups.  Cut  the  reserved  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  put 
on  the  top. 

A  Cream  for  Stewed  Fruit. 

Boil  two  or  three  peach  leaves,  or  a  vanilla  bean,  in  a 
quart  of  cream,  or  milk,  till  flavored.  Strain  and  sweet- 
en it,  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten  ; 
then,  while  heating  it,  add  the  w^hites  cut  to  a  froth. 
When  it  thickens,  take  it  up.  When  cool,  pour  it  over 
the  fruit,  or  preserves. 

Currant^  Raspberry^  or  Strawberry  Whisk. 

Put  three  gills  of  the  juice  of  the  fruit  to  ten  ounces 
of  crushed  sugar,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  cream.  V/hisk  it  till  quite  thick,  and  serve 
it  in  jelly  glasses,  or  a  glass  dish. 

Lemonade  Ice^  and  other  Ices. 

To  a  quart  of  lemonade,  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs, 
cut  to  a  froth,  and  freeze  it.  The  juices  of  any  fruit, 
sweetened  and  watered,  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way,  and  are  A^ery  fine. 

Le??io?i  and  Orange  Cream. 

Grate  the  outer  part  of  the  rind  of  eight  oranges,  or 
lemons,  into  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  from 
night  till  morning.  Add  the  juice  of  two  dozen  of  the 
fruit,  and  another  pint  of  cold  water.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
^■ix  eggs,  and  add  the  whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  cut  to  a 
liff  froth.  Strain  the  juice  into  the  egg.  Set  it  over 
(he  fire,  and  stir  in  fine  white  sugar,  till  quite  sweet. 
When  it  begins  to  thicken,  take  it  off,  and  stir  till  it 
is  cold.     Serve  it  in  glasses,  or  freeze  it. 

Vanilla  Cream. 

Boil  a  vanilla  bean  in  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  till  flavor- 
ed to  your  taste.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs^  and  stir 
in^  then  sweeten  well,  and  lastlv,  add  the  whites  of  the 

15 


170  ARTICLES    FOR    DESSERTS 

eggs,  cut  to  a  stiff  froth.     Boil  till  it  begins  to  thicken, 
then  stir  till  cold,  and  serve  in  glasses,  or  freeze  it. 

A  Charlotte  Russe. 
t 

Half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  half  a  vanilla  bean  boiled  in 

it,  and  then  cooled  and  strained. 

Four  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  powdered  loaf  sugar  stirred  into  the  milk.  Simmer 
jEive  minutes,  and  cool  it. 

An  ounce  of  Russia  isinglass  boiled  in  a  pint  of  v*^a- 
ter  till  reduced  one  half,  and  strained  into  the  above  cus 
tard. 

Whip  a  rich  cream  to  a  froth,  and  stir  into  the  cus- 
tard. 

The  preceding  is  for  the  custard  that  is  to  fill  the 
form. 

Prepare  the  form  thus : — Take  a  large  round,  or  oval 
sponge  cake,  three  or  four  inches  thick,  with  perpendic- 
ular sides.  Cut  off  the  bottom  about  an  inch  thick,  or 
a  little  less,  and  then  turn  it  bottom  upwards  into  a  form 
of  the  same  size  and  shape.  Then  dig  out  the  cake  till 
it  is  a  shell,  an  inch  thick,  or  less.  Fill  the  opening 
with  the  custard,  and  cover  it  with  the  slice  cut  from 
the  bottom.  Then  set  it  into  a  tub  of  pounded  ice  and 
salt,  for  forty  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  get  any  on 
to  the  cake.  When  ready  to  use  it,  turn  it  out  of  the 
form  on  to  a  flat  oval  dish,  and  ornament  the  top  with 
frosting,  or  syringe  on  it  candy  sugar,  in  fanciful  forms. 
This  can  be  made  by  fitting  slices  of  sponge  cake  nicely 
into  a  form,  instead  of  using  a  whole  cake. 

.   A  Plainer  Charlotte  Russe. 

Half  an  ounce  of  Russia  isinglass,  or  a  little  more. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  pint  of  thick  cream. 

Four  eggs.     Three  ounces  sifted  white  sugar. 

A  gill  and  a  half  of  white  wine. 

Boil  the  isinglass  in  the  milk,  flavoring  with  vanilla 
or  lemon.  Stir  the  sugar  into  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 
Put  the  wine  to  the  cream,  and  beat  them  to  a  froth. 


AND    EVENING    PARTIES.  171 

Then  strain  the  isinglass  into  the  yolks,  then  add  the 
cream  and  wine,  and  last  of  all  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
cut  to  a  stiff  froth.  Then  line  a  dish  with  sponge  cake, 
making  the  pieces  adhere  with  whites  of  eggs,  and  pour 
in  the  above. 

A  Superior  Omelette  Souflee. 

Take  eight  eggs.  Put  the  whites  on  one  plate,  and 
the  yolks  on  another  (two  persons  do  it  better  than  one) ; 
beat  up  the  whites  to  a  perfect  froth,  and  at  the  same 
time  stir  the  yolks  wdth  finely-powdered  sugar,  flavored 
with  a  httle  lemon  peel,  grated.  Then,  while  stirring 
the  whites,  pour  the  yolks  into  the  whites,  stir  them  a 
little  (but  not  beat  them).  Then  pom*  all  on  a  round 
tin  plate,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  ;  when  it  begins  to  rise 
a  little,  draw  it  to  the  mouth  of  the  oven,  and  with  a 
spoon  pile  it  up  in  a  pyramidal  shape,  and  leave  it  a  few 
minutes  longer  in  the  oven.  The  whole  baking  requires 
but  three  or  four  minutes,  and  should  be  done  just  as 
wanted  for  the  table. 

Almond  Cheese  Cake. 

Three  well-beaten  eggs. 

A  pint  of  new  milk,  boiUng  while  the  eggs  are  mix- 
ed in. 

Half  a  glass  of  wine,  poured  in  while  boiling. 

On  adding  the  wine,  take  it  from  the  fire,  strain  oflT 
the  whey,  and  put  to  the  curds  sifted  white  sugar, 
to  your  taste,  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  teaspoonful 
of  rose  water,  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  a  doz- 
en of  bitter  ones,  all  blanched  and  pounded,  and  sixteen 
even  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Pour  this  into  patties 
lined  with  thin  pastry.  Ornament  the  top  w^ith  Zante 
currants,  and  almonds  cut  in  thin  shps.  Bake  as  soon  as 
done. 

Flummery. 

Cut  sponge  cake  into  thin  slices,  and  line  a  deep  dish. 
Make  it  moist  wnth  white  wnne ;  make  a  rich  custard, 


172  ARTICLES    FOR    DESSERTS 

using  only  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  When  cool,  turn  it 
into  the  dish,  and  cut  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  piit 
on  the  top. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Cut  the  white  meat  of  chickens  into  small  bits,  the 
size  of  peas. 

Chop  the  white  parts  of  celery  nearly  as  small. 

Prepare  a  dressing  thus  : — ■ 

Rub  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  smooth,  to  each 
yolk  put  half  a  teaspoonfiil  of  mustard,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  oil,  and  a  wine-glass  of 
vinegar.  Mix  the  chicken  and  celery  in  a  large  bowl, 
and  pour  over  this  dressing. 

The  dressing  must  not  be  put  on  till  just  before  it  is 
used.     Bread  and  butter  and  crackers  are  served  with  it. 

Gelatine^  or  A?7ierican  Isinglass  Jelly. 

Two  ounces  of  American  isinglass,  or  gelatine. 

One  quart  of  boihng  water. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  white  wine. 

The  whites  of  tliree  eggs. 

Soak  the  gum  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Then 
take  it  from  the  water,  and  pour  on  the  quart  of  boihng 
water.  When  cooled,  add  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
and  the  juice  of  two,  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  su- 
gar. Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  stir  them  in,  and  let  the  whole  boil  till  the  egg  is 
well  mixed,  but  do  not  stir  while  it  boils.  Strain  through 
a  jelly-bag,  and  then  add  the  wine. 

Wine  jelly  is  made  thus,  except  that  half  a  pint  more 
of  wine  is  added. 

In  cold  Aveather,  a  pint  more  of  water  may  be  added. 
This  jelly  can  be  colored  by  beet  juice,  saffron,  or  indigo, 
for  fancy  dishes. 

Oranges  in  Jelly. 

Peel  and  divide  into  halves  several  small-size  oranges ; 
boil  them  in  water  till  a  straw  will  pierce  them,  then  put 


AND    EVENING    PARTIES.  173 

them  into  a  syrup  made  of  half  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each 
pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  the  oranges  in  it  till  clear.  Then 
stir  in  an  ounce,  or  more,  of  clarified  isinglass,  and  let  it 
boil  a  little  while.  Take  the  oranges  into  a  dish,  and 
strain  the  jelly  over.  Lemons  may  be  done  the  same 
way. 

Jelly  Tarts. 

One  pound  of  sifted  flour. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  rubbed  in  well. 

"Wet  it  up  with  about  a  pint  of  cold  water,  in  which  a 
bit  of  sal  volatile,  the  size  of  a  large  pea  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  water,  has  been  put.  Beat  the  whole  with  a 
rolling-pin,  cut  it  into  round  cakes,  wet  the  tops  with 
beaten  Qgg^  and  strew  on  fine  white  sugar.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven,  and  when  done  put  a  spoonful  of  jelly  in  the 
centre  of  each. 

Sweet  Paste  Jelly  Tarts. 

A  pint  of  dried  and  sifted  flour. 

A  pint  of  sifted  sugar. 

Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  sweet  butter. 

A  bit  of  sal  volatile,  the  size  of  two  large  peas,  dissolv- 
ed in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water. 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  work  in  the 
flour,  add  the  sal  volatile,  and  cold  water,  if  needed,  for 
making  a  paste  to  roll.  Beat  the  whole  with  a  rolling- 
pin,  roll  it  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  with  a  tumbler,  wet 
the  tops  with  milk,  put  them  on  buttered  tins  into  a 
quick  oven,  and  w^ien  done,  heap  a  spoonful  of  jelly  on 
the  centre  of  each. 

They  are  excellent  for  a  dessert,  or  for  evening  parties. 

An  Apple  Lemon  Pudding. 

Six  spoonfuls  of  grated,  or  of  cooked  and  strained  ap- 
ple. Three  lemons,  pulp,  rind,  and  juice,  all  grated. 
Half  a  pound  of  melted  butter.  Sugar  to  the  taste. 
Seven  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Mix,  and  bake  with  or  without  paste.    It  can  be  made 

15* 


174  ARTICLES    FOR    DESSERTS 

still  plainer  by  using  nine  spoonfuls  of  apple,  one  lemon, 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  full  of  butter,  and  three  eggs. 

Buttertnilk  Pop. 

Rub  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  tea-cup  of  flour,  wet  it 
up  to  a  thin  paste  with  cold  buttermilk,  and  pour  it  into 
two  quarts  of  boiling  fresh  buttermilk.  Salt  to  tiie 
taste. 

Wheat  Ploiir  Plane  Mange. 

Wet  up  six  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  a  thin  paste, 
with  cold  milk,  and  stir  it  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk. 
Flavor  with  lemon  peel,  or  peach  leaves  boiled  in  the 
milk.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  cool  it  in  a  mould,  and  eat 
with  sweetened  cream  and  sweetmeats. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

Take  two  lemons,  and  a  dozen  oranges  ;  grate  the 
yellow  part  of  all  the  oranges  but  five,  and  set  it  aside. 
Make  a  clear  syrup  of  an  equal  w^eight  of  sugar.  Clear 
the  oranges  of  rind  and  seeds,  and  put  them  with  the 
grated  rinds  into  the  syrup,  and  boil  about  twenty  min- 
utes, till  it  is  a  transparent  mass. 

A  Simple  Lemon  Jelly  {easily  made). 

One  ounce  of  cooper's  isinglass.  A  pound  and  a  halt 
of  loaf  sugar.  Three  lemons,  pulp,  skin,  and  juice, 
grated. 

Pour  a  quart  of  boiling  water  on  to  the  isinglass,  add 
the  rest,  mix  and  strain  it,  then  add  a  glass  of  wine, 
and  pour  it  to  cool  in  some  regular  form.  If  the  lemons 
are  not  fresh,  add  a  little  cream  of  tartar,  or  tartaric  acid. 
Am^erican  gelatine  is  used  for  this. 

Cranberry. 

Pour  boihng  water  on  them,  and  then  you  can  easi- 
ly separate  the  good  and  the  bad.  Boil  them  in  a  very 
little  water  till  soft,  then  sweeten  to  your  taste.     If  you 


AND   EVENING    PARTIES.  175 

wish  a  jelly,  take  a  portion  and  strain  through  a  fine 
sieve. 

Fruits  Preserved  without  Cooking. 

Pineapples  peeled  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  with  layers 
of  sugar  under  and  over  each  sUce,  will  keep  without 
cooking,  and  the  flavor  is  fully  preserved.  Use  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit. 

Q,uinces  peeled  and  boiled  soft,  and  then  laid  in  sugar, 
pound  to  a  pound,  in  the  same  way,  are  very  beautiful. 

Apple  Ice  {very  fine). 

Take  finely-flavored  apples^  grate  them  fine,  and  then 
make  them  very  sweet,  and  freeze  them.  It  is  very  de- 
licious. 

Pears,  peaches,  or  quinces,  also  are  fine  either  grated 
fine  or  stewed  and  run  through  a  sieve,  then  sweetened 
very  sweet  and  frozen.  The  flavor  is  much  better  pre- 
served when  grated  than  wh^n  cooked. 

Lenion^  or  Orange  Ice  Cream. 

Squeeze  a  dozen  lemons,  and  make  the  juice  thick 
with  sugar ;  then  stir  in  slowly  three  quarts  of  cream, 
and  freeze  it.     Oranges  require  less  sugar. 

Cream  Tarts. 

One  pound  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  salt  spoon  of  salt. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rolled  sugar. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  one  beaten  egg. 

Sal  volatile  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  dissolved  in  a  spoon- 
ful of  cold  water.  Mix  the  above,  and  wet  up  with  cold 
water,  and  line  some  small  patties,  or  tartlet  pans.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven,  then  fill  with  mock  cream,  sprinkle 
on  powdered  sugar,  put  them  back  into  the  oven  a  few 
minutes  till  a  little  browned. 

Whip  Syllabub. 

One  pint  of  cream. 

Sifted  white  sugar  to  your  taste. 

Half  a  tumbler  of  white  wine.  * 


176  ARTICLES    FOR    DESSERTS 

The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Beat  all  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Trifles. 

One  well-beaten  egg,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

A  salt  spoonful  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  for  a  stiff 
dough. 

Cut  it  in  thin  round  cakes,  and  fry  in  lard ;  when  they 
rise  to  the  surface  and  are  turned  over,  they  are  done. 
Drain  on  a  sieve,  and  put  jam  or  jelly  on  the  centre  of 
each. 

Nothings. 

Three  well-beaten  eggs,  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt,  and 
flour  enough  for  a  very  stiff  paste.  Roll  and  cut  into 
very  thin  cakes,  fry  them  like  trifles,  and  put  two  to- 
gether with  jam,  or  jelly  between. 

Apple  Snow. 

Put  twelve  very  tart  apples  in  cold  water  over  a  slow 
fire.  When  soft,  take  away  the  skins  and  cores,  and 
mix  in  a  pint  of  sifted  white  sugar ;  beat  the  whites  of 
twelve  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  then  add  them  to  the 
apples  and  sugar.  Put  it  in  a  dessert  dish,  and  orna- 
ment with  myrtle  and  box. 

Iced  Fruit. 

Take  fine  bunches  of  currants  on  the  stalk,  dip  them 
in  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  lay  them  on  a  sieve  and  sift 
white  sugar  over  them,  and  set  them  in  a  warm  place  to 
dry. 

Orna7nental  Froth. 

The  whites  of  four  eggs  in  a  stiff  froth,  put  into  the 
syrup  of  preserved  raspberries,  or  strawberries,  beaten 
well  together,  and  turned  over  ice  cream,  or  blanc  mange. 
Make  white  froth  to  combine  with  the  colored  in  fanci- 
ful ways.  It  can  be  put  on  the  top  of  boiUng  milk,  and 
hardened  to  keep  its  form. 


AND    EVENING    PARTIES.  177 

To  Clarify  Isinglass. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  cup  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, take  off  the  scum,  and  drain  through  a  coarse  cloth. 
Jellies,  candies,  and  blanc  mange  should  be  done  in  brass, 
and  stirred  with  silver. 

Blanc  Mange. 

A  pint  of  cream,  and  a  quart  of  boiled  milk. 

An  ounce  and  a  half  of  clarified  isinglass,  stirred  into 
the  milk.     Sugar  to  your  taste. 

A  teaspoonful  of  fine  salt. 

Flavor  with  lemon,  or  orange,  or  rose  water. 

Let  it  boil,  stirring  it  well,  then  strain  into  moulds. 

Three  ounces  of  almonds  pounded  to  a  paste  and  ad- 
ded while  boihng,  is  an  improvement.  Or  filberts,  or 
hickory-nuts,  can  be  skinned  and  used  thus. 

It  can  be  flavored  by  boiling  in  it  a  vanilla  bean,  or  a 
stick  of  cinnamon.     Save  the  bean  to  use  again. 

Calf^s  Foot  Blajic  Mange, 

Take  a  pint  of  calf's  foot  jelly,  or  American  isinglass 
jelly,  and  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  the  beaten  yolks  of 
six  eggs,  and  stir  till  it  begins  to  boil.  Then  sweeten 
and  flavor  to  your  taste ;  set  it  in  a  pan  of  cold  water, 
and  stir  it  till  nearly  cold,  to  prevent  curdling,  and  when 
it  begins  to  thicken,  put  it  into  moulds. 

Variegated  Blanc  Mange. 

For  evening  parties  a  pretty  ornamental  variety  can 
be  made  thus. 

Color  the  blanc  mange  in  separate  parcels,  red,  with 
juice  of  boiled  beets,  or  cochineal ;  yellow,  with  saflfron  ; 
and  blue,  with  indigo. 

Put  in  a  layer  of  white,  and  when  cool,  a  layer  of 
another  color,  and  thus  as  many  as  you  like.  You  can 
arrange  it  in  moulds  thus,  or  in  a  dish,  and  when  cold 
cut  it  in  fanciful  shapes. 


178  ARTICLES    FOR    DESSERTS 

Jaune  Mange. 

Boil  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  little  more  than  half  a 
pint  of  water,  till  dissolved  ;  strain  it,  add  the  juice  and 
a  little  of  the  grated  rind  of  two  oranges,  a  gill  of  white 
wine,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  and  strained,  and 
sugar  to  your  taste.  Stir  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it  just 
boils,  and  then  strain  into  a  mould. 

Ivory  Dust  Jelly. 

Boil  a  pound  of  the  dust  in  five  pints  of  water,  till  re- 
duced to  one  quart,  strain  it,  add  a  quart  more  of  water, 
boil  till  a  stiff  jelly,  then  add  lemon,  or  orange  juice  and 
rind,  and  sugar  to  your  taste,  and  strain  into  moulds. 

Apple  Jelly. 

Boil  tart,  peeled  apples  in  a  little  water,  till  glutinous, 
strain  out  the  juice,  and  put  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to 
a  pint  of  the  juice.  Flavor  to  your  taste,  boil  till  a  good 
jelly,  and  then  put  it  into  moulds. 

Another  Lemon  Jelly. 

Take  the  clear  juice  of  twelve  lemons,  and  a  pound  of 
fine  loaf  sugar,  and  a  quart  of  water.  For  each  quart 
of  the  above  mixture,  put  in  an  ounce  of  clarified  isin- 
glass, let  it  boil  up  once,  and  strain  into  moulds.  If  not 
stiff"  enough,  add  more  isinglass,  and  boil  again. 

Orange  Jelly. 

The  juice  of  nine  oranges  and  three  lemons. 

The  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  one  orange,  pared 
thin. 

Two  quarts  of  water,  and  four  ounces  of  isinglass, 
broken  up  and  boiled  in  it  to  a  jelly. 

Add  the  above,  and  sweeten  to  your  taste.  Then  add 
the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  well  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
boil  ten  minutes,  strain  and  put  into  moulds,  first  dip- 
ped in  cold  water.  When  perfectly  cold,  dip  the  mould 
in  warm  water,  and  turn  on  to  a  glass  dish. 


AND  EVENING    PARTIES.  179 

Floating  Island. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eg-gs  with  the  juice  of  four 
lemons,  sweeten  it  to  your  taste,  and  stir  it  into  a  quart 
of  boihng  milk  till  it  thickens,  then  pour  it  into  a  dish. 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  pat  it 
on  the  top  of  the  cream. 

Another  Syllahiih. 

The  juice  and  grated  outer  skin  of  a  large  lemon. 
Four  glasses  of  white  wine. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  white  sugar. 
Mix  the  above,  and  let  them  stand  some  hours. 
Then  whip  it,  adding  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  the 
w^hites  of  two  eggs  cut  to  a  froth. 

A71  Ornamental  Dish. 

Pare  and  core,  without  splitting,  some  small-sized  tart 
apples,  and  boil  them  very  gently  with  one  lemon  for 
every  six  apples,  till  a  straw  will  pass  through  them. 

Make  a  syrup  of  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar  for  each 
pound  of  apples,  put  the  apples  unbroken,  and  the  lemon  s 
sliced,  into  the  syrup,  and  boil  gently  till  the  apples  look 
clear.  Then  take  them  up  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break 
them,  and  add  an  ounce,  or  more,  of  clarified  isinglass  to 
the  syriip,  and  let  it  boil  up.  Then  lay  a  slice  of  lemon 
on  each  apple,  and  strain  the  syrup  over  them. 

Carrageen  Blanc  Mange  [Irish  3Ioss). 

Take  one  tea-cup  full  of  Carrageen,  or  Irish  moss,  af- 
ter it  has  been  carefully  picked  over.  Wash  it  thorough- 
ly in  pearlash  water,  to  take  out  the  saline  taste  ;  then 
rinse  it  in  several  waters,  put  it  in  a  tin  pail,  and  pour 
to  it  a  quart  of  milk.  Set  the  pail,  closely  covered,  into 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  until  the  moss 
thickens  the  milk,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  sweet- 
en with  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  fiavor  with  rose  or 
lemon.  Wet  the  moulds  in  cold  water,  then  pour  in  the 
blanc  mange,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  In  two,  or 
three  hours,  or  when  quite  firm,  it  may  be  used.     Loos- 


180  ARTICLES    FOR    DESSERTS 

en  the  edges  from  the  moulds,  and  then  turn  it  out  upon 
china  or  glass  plates.  It  may  be  served  with  powdered 
sugar  and  cream. 

A  Dish  of  Snow. 

Grate  the  white  part  of  cocoanut,  put  it  in  a  glass 
dish  and  serve  with  currant  or  cranberry  jellies 

To  Clarify  Sugar. 

Take  four  pounds  of  sugar,  and  break  it  up. 

Whisk  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  put  it  v/ith  a  tum- 
blerful of  water  into  a  preserving  pan,  and  add  water 
gradually,  till  you  have  two  quarts,  stirring  well.  When 
there  is  a  good  frothing,  throw  in  the  sugar,  boil  moder- 
ately, and  skim  it.  If  the  sugar  rises  to  run  over,  throw 
in  a  little  cold  water,  and  then  skim  it,  as  it  is  then  still. 
Repeat  this,  and  when  no  more  scum  rises,  strain  the 
sugar  for  use. 

To  Prepare  Sugar  for  Candies. 

Put  a  coffee  cup  of  v/ater  for  each  pound  of  sugar, 
into  a  brass,  or  copper  kettle,  over  a  slow  fire.  Put  in, 
for  each  pound,  say  half  a  sheet  of  isinglass,  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  gum-arabic,  dissolved  together.  Skim  off 
all  impurities,  and  flavor  to  your  taste. 

All  sugar  for  candy  is  prepared  thus,  and  then  boiled 
till,  when  drawn  into  strings  and  cooled,  it  snaps  like 
glass. 

A  little  hot  rum,  or  vinegar,  must  be  put  to  loaf  sugar 
candy,  to  prevent  its  being  too  brittle. 

Candies  made  thus,  can  be  colored  with  boiled  beet 
juice,  saffron,  and  indigo,  and  it  can  be  twisted,  rolled, 
and  cut  into  any  forms. 

It  can  have  cocoanut,  almonds,  hickory-nuts,  Brazil,  or 
peanuts,  sliced,  or  chopped  and  put  in. 

It  can  be  flavored  v/ith  vanilla,  rose,  lemon,  orange, 
cloves,  cinnamon,  or  anything  you  please. 

Sugar  Kisses. 
Whisk  four  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in 


AND   EVENING   PARTIES.  IS  I 

Imlf  a  pound  of  sifted  white  sugar,  and  flavor  it  as  you 
like. 

Lay  it,  when  stiff,  in  heaps,  on  white  paper,  each  the 
shape  and  size  of  half  an  egg-,  and  an  inch  apart.  Place 
them  on  a  board  which  is  half  an  inch  thick,  and  put 
them  into  a  hot  oven.  When  they  turn  a  little  yellow- 
isli,  slip  off  the  paper  on  to  a  table,  and  let  them  cool  five 
minutes.  Then  shp  off  two  of  the  kisses  with  a  knife, 
and  join  the  bottom  parts  together  which  touched  the 
paper,  and  they,  if  pressed  gently,  will  adhere.  Then 
lay  them  on  a  plate,  and  continue  till  all  are  thus  pre- 
pared. These  look  handsomely,  and  are  very  delicate 
and  good. 

Almond  Macaroons. 

Half  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched,  and  pounded  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon  till  a  smooth  paste. 

Add  an  equal  quantity  of  sifted  white  sugar,  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Work  well  together  with  a 
spoon. 

Dip  your  hand  in  water,  and  work  them  into  balls 
the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  lay  them  on  white  paper,  an  inch 
apart ;  then  dip  your  hand  in  water,  and  smooth  them. 
Put  them  in  a  cool  oven  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Cocoanut  can  be  grated  and  used  in  place  of  the  al- 
monds, and  thus  make  cocoanut  macaroons. 

Filbert  Macarooiis. 

Heat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  filbert  meats  till  the  skin 
will  rub  off,  and  when  cold  pound  them,  and  make  a 
paste  with  a  Httle  white  of  an  egg,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  white  sifted  sugar,  and  the  white  of  an  egg ; 
when  v/ell  mixed,  bake  them  like  almond  macaroons. 

Flour  macaroons  look  as  well,  and  are  nearly  as  good. 
To  make  them,  work  a  pint  of  sifted  white  sugar  into 
one  beaten  egg,  till  a  smooth  paste,  and  add  a  little  sifted 
flour,  so  as  to  mould  it  in  your  hands.  Flavor  with  es- 
sence of  lemon,  or  rose  water,  and  proceed  as  with  al- 
mond macaroons. 

16 


182      ARTICLES    FOR    DESSERTS    AND    EVENING   PARTIES. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

The  white  part  of  a  cocoanut,  grated. 

The  whites  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Half  a  pound  of  sifted  white  sugar. 

Flavor  with  rose  water,  or  essence  of  lemon. 

Mix  all  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred,  lay  in  heaps  an  inch 
apart,  on  paper,  and  on  a  baking  tin ;  put  them  in  a 
quick  oven,  and  take  them  out  when  they  begin  to  look 
yellowish. 

Candied  Fruits. 

Preserve  the  fruit,  then  dip  it  in  sugar  boiled  to  candy 
thickness,  and  then  dry  it.  Grapes  and  some  other  fruits 
may  be  dipped  in  uncooked,  and  then  dried,  and  they 
are  fine. 

Another  Way. 

Take  it  from  the  syrup,  when  preserved,  dip  it  in  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  set  it  on  a  sieve  in  an  oven  to  dry. 

To  make  an  Ornainental  Pyramid  for  a  Table. 

Boil  loaf  sugar  as  for  candy,  and  rub  it  over  a  stiff 
form,  made  for  the  purpose,  of  stiff  paper,  which  must  be 
well  buttered.  Set  it  on  a  table,  and  begin  at  the  bot- 
tom, and  stick  on  to  this  frame,  with  the  sugar,  a  row  of 
macaroons,  kisses,  or  other  ornamental  articles,  and  con- 
tinue till  the  whole  is  covered.  When  cold,  draw  out 
the  pasteboard  form,  and  set  the  pyramid  in  the  centre 
of  the  table  with  a  small  bit  of  wax  candle  burning  with 
it;  and  it  looks  very  beautifully. 


TEMPERANCE    DRINKS.  183 


CHAPTER  XIX. 


TEMPERANCE    DRINKS. 


The  advocates  of  entire  abstinence  from  intoxica- 
ting drinks  seem  to  be  divided  into  three  classes.  One 
class  consider  it  to  be  a  sin  ^V^  itself,  to  take  anything 
that  contains  the  intoxicating  principle. 

Another  class  adopt  the  temperance  pledge  on  the 
principle  urged  by  St.  Paul  in  1  Cor.  8  :  13,  and  engage 
not  to  use  intoxicating  drinks  as  a  beverage,  nor  to  of- 
fer them  to  others,  and  maintain  that  though  neither 
their  pledge  nor  divine  command  requires  more  than  this, 
yet  that,  to  avoid  the  appearance  of  evil,  they  will  not 
use  any  kind  of  alcoholic  liquors  for  any  purpose.  Such 
will  not  employ  it  in  cooking,  nor  keep  it  in  their  houses. 

The  third  class  beheve  that  the  wisest  course  is  to 
adopt  the  pledge  "not  to  use,  or  offer  to  others  intoxica- 
ting drinks  as  a  heverage,^^  and  strictly  to  adhere,  both  to 
the  spirit  and  letter  of  this  pledge,  but  not  to  go  be)^ond 
it.  Such  think  it  proper  to  use  wine  and  brandy  in 
cooking,  and  occasionally  for  medicinal  purposes,  and 
suppose  that  the  cause  of  temperance  will  be  best  pro- 
moted by  going  no  farther.  The  writer  belongs  to  this 
last  class,  and  therefore  has  not  deemed  it  desirable  to 
omit  or  alter  receipts  in  which  wine  and  brandy  are  em- 
ployed for  cooking 

It  has  now  become  almost  universal,  in  the  medical 
profession,  to  maintain  the  principle,  that  alcoholic  drinks, 
except  as  medicine,  are  never  needful,  but  as  the  gene- 
ral rule,  are  alwaj^s  injurious.  And  they  consider  that 
those  cases  where  the  use  of  them  seems  to  involve  no 
evil,  should  be  regarded  as  owing  to  the  fact  that  a  strong 
constitution,  or  some  pecuharity  of  temperament,  can  oc- 
casionally resist  the  evil  influence  for  a  certain  length  of 


184  TEMPERANCE    DRINKS. 

time,  just  as  some  persons,  by  similar  causes,  are  sustain- 
ed in  health  in  a  malaria  district. 

But  none  can  tell  how  long  a  good  constitution  will  re- 
sist the  baleful  operation  of  alcohol  or  malaria,  nor  are 
these  exceptions  any  argument  in  favor  either  of  in- 
toxicating drinks  or  a  pestilential  atmosphere. 

The  srreat  abundance  of  dehcious  and  healthful  drinks 
that  are  within  reach,  leaves  no  excuse  for  resorting  to 
such  as  are  pernicious.  The  following  receipts  furnish 
a  great  variety,  and  many  of  them  are  very  easily  and 
cheaply  obtained. 

In  regard  to  effervescing  drinks.  Dr.  Pereira  remarks  : 

"  Water  charged  with  carbo.iic  acid  forms  a  cool  and 
refreshing  beverage.  It  acts  as  a  diaphoretic  and  diu- 
retic (i.  e.,  to  promote  perspiration  and  the  healthful  action 
of  the  kidneys),  and  is  a  most  valuable  agent  for  check- 
ing nausea  and  vomiting.  When  it  contains  bicarbo- 
nate of  soda  in  solution,  it  proves  antacid,  and  is  a  most 
valuable  beverage  for  persons  afflicted  with  calculi  in  the 
bladder." 

The  following  receipts  may  be  tried  in  succession,  and 
some  among  them  will  suit  the  taste  of  every  one.  Some 
of  the  receipts  for  drinks  for  the  sick  are  also  very  fine 
for  common  use.  « 

Ginger  Beer  Powders,  and  Soda  Poioders. 

Put  into  blue  papers,  thirty  grains  to  each  paper,  of 
bicarbonate  of  soda,  five  grains  of  powdered  ginger,  and  a 
drachm  of  white  powdered  sugar.  Put  into  white  papers, 
twenty-five  grains  to  each,  of  powdered  tartaric  acid. 

Put  one  paper  of  each  kind  to  half  a  pint  of  water. 
The  common  soda  powders  of  the  shops  are  like  the 
above,  when  the  sugar  and  ginger  are  omitted. 

Soda  powders  can  be  kept  on  hand,  and  tlie  water  in 
which  they  are  used  can  be  flavored  with  any  kind  of 
syrup  or  tincture,  and  thus  make  a  fine  drink  for  hot 
weather. 

Currant  Ice  Water'. 
Press  the  juice  from  ripe  currants,  strain  it,  and  put  a 


TEMPERANCE    DRINKS.  195 


pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Put  it  into  bottles, 
cork  and  seal  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  When 
wanted,  mix  it  with  ice  water  for  a  drink.  Or  put  wa- 
ter with  it,  make  it  very  sweet,  and  freeze  it.  Freez- 
ing always  takes  awa}''  much  of  the  sweetness. 

The  juices  of  other  acid  fruits  can  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 

Sarsaparilla  Mead. 

One  pound  of  Spanish  sarsaparilla.  Boil  it  in  four 
gallons  of  water  five  hours,  and  add  enough  water  to 
have  two  gallons.  Add  sixteen  pounds  of  sugar,  and 
ten  ounces  of  tartaric  acid. 

To  make  a  tumbler  of  it,  take  half  a  wine-glass  of  the 
above,  and  then  fill  witti  water,  and  put  in  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda. 

Effervescing  Fruit  Drinks. 

Very  fine  drinks  for  summer  are  prepared  by  putting 
strawberries,  raspberries,  or  blackberries  into  good  vine- 
gar and  then  straining  it  off,  and  adding  a  new  supply  of 
fruit  till  enough  flavor  is  secured,  as  directed  in  Straw- 
berry Vinegar.  Keep  the  vinegar  bottled,  and  in  hot 
weather  use  it  thus.  Dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  or  less 
of  saleratus,  or  soda  in  a  tumbler,  very  little  water  till 
the  lumps  are  all  out.  Then  fill  the  tumbler  two-thirds 
full  of  water,  and  then  add  the  fruit  vinegar.  If  several 
are  to  drink,  put  the  soda,  or  saleratus  into  the  pitcher, 
and  then  put  the  fruit  vinegar  into  each  tumbler,  and 
pour  the  alkali  water  from  the  pitcher  into  each  tum- 
bler, as  each  person  is  all  ready  to  drink,  as  delay 
spoils  it. 

Effervescing  Jelly  Drinks. 

When  jams  or  jelUes  are  too  old  to  be  good  for  table 
use,  mix  them  with  good  vinegar,  and  then  use  them 
with  soda,  or  saleratus,  as  directed  above. 


t^ummcr  Beverage. 


Ten  drops  of  oil  of  sassafras.    Ten  drops  of  oil  of 

16* 


186  TEMPERANCE    DRINKS. 

spruce.  Ten  drops  of  oil  of  wiiitergreen.  Two  quarts 
of  boiling  water  poured  on  to  two  great  spoonfuls  of 
cream  tartar.  Then  add  eight  quarts  of  cold  water, 
the  oils,  three  gills  of  distillery  yeast  (or  twice  as  much 
home-brewed),  and  sweeten  it  to  the  taste.  In  twenty- 
four  hoursj  bottle  it,  and  it  is  a  delicious  beverage. 

Simple  Ginger  Beer, 

One  great  spoonful  of  ginger  and  one  of  cream  tartar. 
One  pint  of  home-brewed  yeast  and  one  pint  of  molas- 
ses. Six  quarts  of  water.  When  it  begins  to  ferment 
bottle  it,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  eight  hours. 

Orange^  or  Lemon  Syrup. 

Put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  white  sugar  to  each  pint 
of  juice,  add  some  of  the  peel,  boil  ten  minutes,  then 
strain  and  cork  it.  It  makes  a  fine  beverage,  and  is 
useful  to  flavor  pies  and  puddings. 

Acid  Fruit  Syrups. 

The  juice  of  any  acid  fruit  can  be  made  into  a  syrup 
by  the  above  receipt,  using  only  a  pound  of  sugar  for 
each  pint  of  juice,  and  kept  on  hand  for  summer  drink. 

Lnitation  Lemon  Syrup. 

Four  ounces  tartaric  acid,  powdered.  Two  drachms 
oil  of  lemon.  This  can  be  kept  in  a  vial  for  a  month, 
and  then  must  be  renewed.  A  tablespoonful  put  to 
water  sweetened  with  loaf  sugar,  makes  six  glasses  of 
lemonade. 

Superior  Ginger  Beer. 

Ten  pounds  of  sugar. 

Nine  ounces  of  lemon  juice. 

Half  a  pound  of  hone)^ 

Eleven  ounces  bruised  ginger  root. 

Nine  gallons  of  water.*    Three  pints  of  yeast. 

Boil  the  ginger  half  an  hour  in  a  gallon  and  a  half  of 


TEMPERANCE    DRINKS.  187 

water,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  water  and  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  strain  it  when  cold,  add  the  white  of 
one  egg  beaten,  and  half  an  ounce  of  essence  of  lemon. 
Let  it  stand  four  days  then  bottle  it,  and  it  will  keep 
good  many  months. 

Lemon  Sherbet, 

Dissolve  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  in  one 
quart  of  w^ater,  add  the  juice  of  ten  lemons,  press  the 
lemons  so  as  to  extract  not  only  the  juice,  but  the  oil  of 
the  rind,  and  let  the  skins  remain  a  while  in  the  water 
and  sugar.  Strain  through  a  sieve,  and  then  freeze  it 
like  ice  cream. 

Orange  tSherbet. 

Take  the  juice  of  a  dozen  oranges,  and  pour  a  pint 
of  boiling  water  on  the  peel,  and  let  it  stand,  covered, 
half  an  hour.  Boil  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  pint  of 
water,  skim,  and  then  add  the  juice  and  the  water  in 
the  peel  to  the  sugar.  Strain  it  and  cool  it  with  ice, 
or  freeze  it.  The  juice  of  two  lemons  and  a  Uttle  more 
sugar  improves  it. 

Sham  Champagne. 

One  lemon  sliced. 

A  tablespoonful  of  tartaric  acid. 

One  ounce  of  race  ginger. 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar. 

Two  gallons  and  a  half  of  boihng  water  poured  on  to 
the  above.  When  blood  warm,  add  a  gill  of  distillery 
yeast,  or  twice  as  much  of  home-brewed.  Let  it  stand 
in  the  sun  through  the  day.  When  cold  in  the  even- 
ing, cork  and  wire  it.     In  two  days  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Coffee. 

Mocha  and  Old  Java  are  the  best,  and  time  improves 
all  kinds.  Dry  it  a  long  time  before  roasting.  Roast  it 
quick,  stirring  constantly,  or  it  will  taste  raw  and  bit- 


188  TEMPERANCE    DRINKS. 

ter.  When  roasted,  put  in  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
chestnut.  Keep  it  shut  up  close,  or  it  loses  its  strength 
and  flavor.  Never  grind  it  till  you  want  to  use  it,  as 
it  loses  flavor  by  standing. 

To  prepare  it,  put  two  great  spoonfuls  to  each  pint 
of  water,  mix  it  with  the  white,  yolk,  and  shell  of  an 
eo-g,  pour  on  hot,  but  not  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  not 
over  ten  minutes.  Take  it  off,  pour  in  half  a  tea-cup 
of  cold  water,  and  in  five  minutes  pour  it  off  without 
shaking.  When  eggs  are  scarce,  clear  with  fish  skin, 
as  below.  Boiled  milk  improves  both  tea  and  coffee, 
but  must  be  boiled  separately.  Much  coffee  is  spoiled 
by  being  burned  black  instead  of  brown,  and  by  being 
burned  unequally,  some  too  much  and  some  too  little. 
Constant  care  and  stirring  are  indispensable. 

Fish  Skin  for  Coffee. 

Take  the  skin  of  a  mild  codfish  which  has  not  been 
soaked,  rinse  and  then  dry  it  in  a  warm  oven,  after 
bread  is  drawn.  Cut  it  in  inch  squares.  One  of  these 
serves  for  two  quarts  of  coffee,  and  is  put  in  the  first 
thing. 

Chocolate. 

Allow  three  large  spoonfuls  of  scraped  chocolate  to 
each  pint  of  water,  or  take  off  an  inch  of  the  cake  for 
each  quart  of  water,  boil  it  half  an  hour,  and  do  not  boil 
the  milk  in  it,  but  add  it  when  wanted. 

Cocoa  and  Shells. 

Dry  the  nut  in  a  warm  oven  after  bread  is  drawn, 
pound  it,  and  put  an  ounce  to  each  pint  of  water.  Boil 
an  hour,  and  do  not  add  milk  till  it  is  used.  If  shells 
are  used,  soak  them  over  night,  then  boil  them  an  hour 
in  the  same  water.  Put  in  as  much  as  you  like.  Boil 
cocoa  and  chocolate  the  day  before,  cool  and  take  off 
the  oil,  and  then  heat  for  use,  and  it  is  as  good,  and 
more  healthful. 


TEMPERANCE    DRINKS.  180 

Tea. 

The  old-fashioned  rule  to  put  one  teaspoonful  for 
each  person,  is  not  proper,  as  tlius  fifly  persons  would 
require  fifty  teaspoonfuls,  which  is  enormous.  Every 
person  must  be  guided  by  taste  in  this  matter.  Tea  is 
spoilt  unless  the  water  is  boiling  when  it  is  made.  Black 
tea  improves  by  boiling,  but  green  is  injured  by  it. 

Ochra. 

It  is  said  that  the  seeds  of  ochra  burnt  like  colTee, 
make  a  beverage  almost  exactly  like  it. 

ChUdren^s  Drinks. 

There  are  drinks  easily  prepared  for  children,  whicli 
they  love  much  better  than  tea  and  colTec,  for  no  child 
at  first  loves  these  drinks  till  trained  to  it.  As  their 
older  friends  are  served  with  green  and  black  tea,  there 
is  a  while  tea  to  ofTer  them,  which  they  will  always 
prefer,  if  properly  trained,  and  it  is  always  healthful. 

While  Tea. 

Put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  into  half  a  cup  of  good 
milk,  and  fdl  it  with  boiling  water; 

Boy's  Coffee. 

Crumb  bread,  or  dry  toast,  into  a  bowl. 

Put  on  a  plenty  of  sugar,  or  molasses. 

Put  in  one  half  milk  and  one  half  boihng  water. 

To  be  eaten  with  a  spoon,  or  drank  if  preferred. 

Molasses  for  sweetening  is  preferred  by  most  children. 

Straivherry  Vinegar. 

Put  four  pounds  very  ripe  strawberries,  nicely  dressed, 
to  three  quarts  of  the  best  vinegar,  and  let  them  stand 
three,  or  four  days.  Then  drain  the  vinegar  through  a 
jeily-l3ag,  and  pour  it  on  to  the  same  quantity  of  fruit. 
Repeat  the  process  in  three  days  a  third  time. 


190  TEMPERANCE    DRINKS. 

Finally,  to  each  pound  of  the  liquor  thus  obtained, 
add  one  pound  of  fine  sugar.  Bottle  it  and  let  it  stand" 
covered,  but  not  tight  corked,  a  week ;  then  cork  it 
tight,  and  set  it  in  a  dry  and  cool  place,  where  it  will 
not  freeze.  Raspberry  vinegar  can  be  made  in  the 
same  way. 

Royal  Strawberry  Acid. 

Take  three  pounds  of  ripe  strawberries,  two  ounces 
of  citric  acid,  and  one  quart  of  spring  water.  Dissolve 
the  acid  in  the  w^ater  and  pour  it  on  to  the  strawberries, 
and  let  them  stand  in  a  cool  place  twenty-four  hours. 
Then  drain  the  liquid  off  and  pour  it  on  to  three  pounds 
more  of  strawberries,  and  let  it  stand  tv/enty-four  hours. 
Then  add  to  the  liquid  its  own  weight  of  sugar,  boil  it 
three  or  four  minutes  (in  a  porcelain  lined  preserve  kettle, 
lest  metal  may  affect  the  taste),  and  w4ien  cool,  cork  it 
in  bottles  hghtly  for  three  days,  and  then  tight,  and  seal 
them.  Keep  it  in  a  dry  and  cool  place,  where  it  will 
not  freeze.     It  is  very  delicious  for  the  sick,  or  the  well. 

Delicious  Milk  Lemonade. 

Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  on  to  six  ounces  of  loaf 
sugar,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  lemon  juice,  and  half 
the  quantity  of  good  sherry  wine.  Then  add  three 
quarters  of  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  and  strain  the  whole,  to 
make  it  nice  and  clear. 

Portable  Lemonade. 

Mix  strained  lemon  juice  with  loaf  sugar,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  four  large  lemons  to  a  pound,  or  as  much  as 
it  wdll  hold  in  solution ;  grate  the  rind  of  the  lemons 
into  this,  and  preserve  this  in  a  jar.  If  this  is  too  sweet, 
add  a  little  citric  acid.  Use  a  tablespoonful  to  a  tum- 
bler of  water. 


RECEIPTS    FOR    FOOD    AND    DRINKS    FOR    THE    SICK.       101 


CHAPTER    XX. 

RECEIPTS    FOR    FOOD    AND    DRINKS    FOR    THE    SICK. 

Ge7ieral  Remarks  on  the  Preparation  of  Articles  for 

the  )Sick. 

Always  have  everything  you  use  very  sweet  and 
clean,  as  the  sense  of  taste  and  smell  are  very  sensitive 
in  sickness.  Never  cook  articles  for  the  sick  over  a 
smoke  or  blaze,  as  you  will  thus  impart  a  smoky  taste. 
When  the  mixture  is  thick,  stir  often  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Be  very  careful,  in  putting  in  seasoning,  not  to 
put  in  too  much,  as  it  is  easy  to  add,  but  not  to  subtract. 

The  nicest  way  to  flavor  with  orange  or  lemon  peel, 
is  to  rub  loaf  sugar  on  the  peel  till  the  oil  is  absorbed 
into  it,  and  then  use  the  sugar  to  flavor  and  sweeten. 
Herbs  and  spice,  when  boiled  to  flavor,  should  be  tied  in 
a  rag,  as  they  will  not  then  burn  on  to  the  vessel  at  the 
edges. 

Always  have  a  shawl  at  hand,  also  a  clean  towel,  a 
clean  handkerchief,  and  a  small  waiter  when  you  pre- 
sent food  or  drink.  Many  of  the  articles  for  desserts  and 
evening  parties  are  good  for  the  sick. 

Alt  Excellent  Relish  for  a  Convalescent. 

Cut  some  codfish  to  bits  the  size  of  a  pea,  and  boil  it 
a  minute  in  water  to  freshen  it.  Pour  off  all  the  water, 
and  add  some  cream  and  a  little  pepper. 

Split  and  toast  a  Boston  cracker,  and  put  the  above 
upon  it.  Milk  with  a  little  butter  may  be  used  instead 
of  cream. 

Ham  or  smoked  beef  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way.  For  a  variety,  beat  up  an  eg^  and  stir  it  in,  in- 
stead of  cream,  or  with  the  cream. 


192  RECEIPTS    FOR    FOOD 

Tliese  preparations  are  also  good  for  a  relish  for  a 
family  at  breakfast  or  tea. 

Several  Ways  of  Preparijig  Chick e7is  for  the  Sick. 

Chicke7i  tea  is  made  by  boiling  any  part  of  the  chick- 
en, and  using  the  broth  weak  with  only  a  little  salt. 

Chicken  hroth  is  made  by  boiHng  a  chicken  a  good 
deal,  and  skimming  very  thoroughly  and  seasoning 
with  salt.  A  little  rice,  or  pearl  barley  improves  it,  or 
a  little  parsley  may  be  used  to  flavor  it. 

Chicken  panada  is  made  by  pounding  some  of  the 
meat  of  boiled  chicken  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little  broth, 
and  also  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg.  Then  pour  in  a  lit- 
tle broth  and  boil  it  five  minutes.  It  should  be  a  thick 
broth. 

Milk  Porridge. 

Make  a  thin  batter  with  Indian  meal  and  wheat 
flour,  a  spoonful  of  each,  and  pour  it  into  a  quart  of 
boiling  milk  and  water,  equal  portions  of  each.  Salt 
it  to  the  taste.     Boil  ten  minutes. 

Rice  Gruel^  and  Oatmeal  Gruel. 

Make  a  thin  paste  of  ground  rice  or  Indian  meal,  and 
pour  into  boiling  water,  or  boiling  milk  and  water.  Let 
the  rice  boil  up  once,  but  the  corn  meal  must  boil  half 
an  hour.  Season  with  salt,  sugar,  and  nutmeg.  A 
little  cream  is  a  great  improvement. 

Arroioroot  and  Tajnoca  Grnels. 

Jamaica  arrowroot  is  the  best.  Make  a  thin  paste, 
and  pour  into  boiling  water,  and  flavor  with  sugar,  salt, 
and  nutmeg.     A  little  lemon  juice  improves  it. 

Tapioca  must  be  soaked  in  twice  the  quantity  of  wa- 
ter over  night,  then  add  milk  and  water,  and  boil  till  it 
is  soft.     Flavor  as  above. 

Dropped  Egg. 

Salt  some  boiling  water,  and  drop  in  it  a  raw  egg  out 


AND    DRINKS    FOR    TttE    SICK.  193 

of  the  shell,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolk;  take  it 
upas  soon  as  the  while  is  hardened.  Dip  some  toast  in 
hot  water,  and  put  salt  or  butter  on  to  it,  and  lay  the 
e^g  on  the  top. 

Wheat  Gruel  for  Yoimg  Children  with  weak  stom- 
achs,  or  for  Livalids. 

Tie  half  a  pint  of  \vheat  flour  in  thick  cotton,  and 
boil  it  tinee  or  four  hours  ;  tiien  dry  the  lump  and  grate 
it  when  you  use  it.  Prepare  a  gruel  of  it  by  making  a 
t'nin  paste,  and  pouring  it  into  boiling  miik  and  water, 
and  flavor  with  salt.     This  is  good  for  teething  children. 

Another  Panada. 

Boil  a  mixture  of  or.c-fourth  wine,  and  three-fourths 
water,  and  flavor  it  with  nutmeg  or  lemon.  Stir  in 
grated  bread  or  crackers,  and  let  it  boil  up  once. 

Herb  Drinks. 

Balm  tea  is  often  luuch  relished  by  the  sick.  Sage 
tea  also  is  good.  Balm,  sage,  and  sorrel,  mixed  with 
sliced  lemon  and  boiling  water  poured  on,  and  then 
sweetened,  is  a  fine  drink.  Pennyroyal  makes  a  good 
drink  to  promote  perspiration. 

Herb  drinks  must  often  be  renewed,  as  they  grow  in- 
sipid by  standing. 

Other  Siinple  Driiiks. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  to  tamarinds,  or  mashed  cran- 
berries, or  mashed  whortleberries,  th^n  pour  off  the  v.a- 
ter  and  sweeten  it.     Add  a  little  wine  if  allowed. 

Toast  bread  very  brown,  and  put  it  in  cold  water,  and 
it  is  often  relished.  Pour  boiling  water  on  to  bread 
toasted  very  brown,  and  boil  it  a  minute,  then  strain  it, 
and  add  a  little  cream  and  sugar.  Make  a  tea  of  parch- 
ed corn  pounded,  and  add  sugar  and  cream. 

Cream  Tartar  Whey. 

Warm  a  pint  of  fresh  milk,  when  scalding  hot,  stir  in 

17 


194  RECEIPTS    FOR    FOOD 

a  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  and  if  this  does  not  turn 
it,  add  more,  till  it  does.  Strain  it,  and  sweeten  with 
loaf  sugar.  Those  who  cannot  eat  wine  whey  can  eat 
this  without  trouble,  and  it  is  good  in  fevers. 

/Simple  Wine  Whey. 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  water,  milk,  and  white  wine. 
Warm  the  milk  and  water,  and  then  add  the  wine. 
Sweeeten  it  to  the  taste. 

A  great  Favorite  with  Invalids. 

Take  one  third  brisk  cider  and  two  thirds  water, 
sweeten  it,  and  crumb  in  toasted  bread,  or  toasted 
crackers,  and  grate  on  nutmeg.  Acid  jellies  will  answer 
for  this,  when  cider  cannot  be  obtained. 

A  New  Way  of  making  Barley  Water. 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley  into  a  quart 
jug,  two  great  spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  a  small  pinch 
of  salt,  a  small  bit  of  orange,  or  lemon  peel,  and  a  glass 
of  calve's  foot  jelly,  and  then  fill  the  jug  with  boiling 
water.  Shake  it,  and  then  let  it  stand  till  quite  cold. 
It  is  best  made  over  night,  to  use  next  day.  When  the 
liquor  is  all  poured  off,  it  may  be  filled  again  with  boil- 
ing water,  and  it  is  again  very  good. 

Panada. 

Take  two  crackers,  pour  on  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
simmer  five  minutes  ;  beat  up  an  egg,  sweeten  and  fla- 
vor it  to  your  taste,  and  then  put  the  cracker  to  it. 

Arrowroot  Blanc  Mange. 

Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot  to  one  quart 
of  milk,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Scald  the  milk,  sweeten 
it,  and  then  stir  in  the  arrowroot,  which  must  first  be 
wet  up  with  some  of  the  milk.  Let  it  boil  up  once. 
Orange  water,  rose  water,  or  lemon  peel,  can  be  used  to 
flavor  it.     Pour  it  into  moulds  to  cool. 


AND   DRINKS    FOR   THE    SICK.  195 

Rice  Flour  Blanc  Mange. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  rice  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  wet  up  with  a  Uttle  milk  and  stirred  into  a  quart 
of  boiling  milk.  Rub  the  rind  of  a  lemon  with  hard,  re- 
fined sugar,  till  all  the  oil  is  absorbed,  and  use  the  su- 
gar to  sweeten  to  your  taste.  Boil,  stirring  well,  for 
eight  minutes  ;  then  cool  it,  and  add  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  cut  to  a  froth.  Put  it  on  to  the  fire,  and  stir  con- 
stantly till  boiling  hot,  then  turn  it  into  moulds,  or  cups, 
and  let  it  stand  till  cold. 

Another  Receipt  for  American  Isinglass  Jelly, 

One  ounce  of  gelatine,  or  American  isinglass. 

Three  pints  of  boiling  water. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar. 

Three  lemons,  cut  in  slices,  leaving  out  the  peel  of 
one. 

The  whites  of  four  eggs,  cut  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Soak  the  isinglass  half  an  hour  in  cold  water,  then 
take  it  out  and  pour  on  the  boiling  water.  When  cool, 
add  the  sugar,  lemon,  and  whites  of  eggs ;  boil  all  three 
or  four  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  and 
add  wine  to  your  taste. 

Tapioca  Jelly. 

One  cup  full  of  tapioca. 

Wash  it  two  or  three  times,  soak  it  in  water,  for  five 
or  six  hours.  Then  simmer  it  in  the  same  water  in 
which  it  has  been  soaked,  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  bits  of 
fresh  lemon  peel,  until  it  becomes  transparent.  Then 
add  lemon  juice,  wine,  and  loaf  sugar  to  flavor  it.  Let 
all  simmer  well  together,  then  pour  into  glasses  to  cool. 

Caudle 

To  rice,  or  water  gruel,  add  a  wine-glass  of  wine,  or 
ale,  and  season  with  nutmeg  and  sugar. 

Sago  Jelly. 

Soak  a  tea-cup  full  of  sago  in  cold  water,  half  an  hour, 


196  RECEIPTS    FOR   FOOD 

then  pour  off  the  water,  and  add  fresh,  and  soak  it 
another  half  hour  ;  and  then  boil  it  slowly  with  a  pitich 
of  salt,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  or  a  bit  of  orange,  or  lem- 
on peel,  stirring  constantly.  When  thickened,  add  wine 
and  white  sugar  to  suit  the  taste,  and  let  it  boil  a 
minute ;  then  turn  it  into  cups. 

Spiced  Chocolate. 

,    One  quart  of  milk. 

Two  squares  of  chocolate. 

One  stick  of  cinnamon. 

A  little  nutmeg. 

Grate  the  chocolate.  Boil  the  milk,  reserving  a  little 
cold  to  moisten  the  chocolate,  which  must  be  mixed 
perfectly  smooth  to  a  thin  paste.  When  the  milk  boils 
(in  which  the  cinnamon  must  be  put  when  cold,  and 
boil  in  it),  stir  in  the  chocolate,  and  let  it  boil  up  quickly, 
then  pour  into  a  pitcher,  and  grate  on  the  nutmeg. 
Rich  cream  added  to  the  milk,  will  improve  it. 

Barley  Water. 

Put  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley  to  half  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  let  it  simmer  five  minutes  ;  pour  off  the 
water,  and  add  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  add  two 
ounces  sliced  figs,  two  of  stoned  raisins,  and  boil  till  it  is 
reduced  to  a  quart.     Strain  it  for  drink. 

Water  Gruel. 

To  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  add  one  gill  of  In- 
dian meal  and  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  flour,  made 
into  a  paste  and  stirred  in  the  water.  Let  it  boil  slow- 
ly twenty  minutes.  Salt,  sugar,  and  nutmeg  to  the 
taste. 

Oatmeal  makes  a  fine  gruel  in  the  same  way. 

Beef  Tea. 

Broil  a  pound  of  tender,  juic}'  beef  ten  minutes,  salt 
and  pepper  it,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  pour  on  a  pint  of 


AND    DRINKS   FOR   THE    SICK.  197 

boiling  water,  steep  it  half  an  hour,  and  then  pour  it  off 
to  drink.  Another  way  is  slower,  but  better.  Cut  the 
beef  in  small  pieces,  fill  a  junk  bottle  with  them,  and 
keep  it  five  hours  in  boihng  water.  Then  pour  out,  and 
season  the  juice  thus  obtained. 

Tomato  Syrup. 

Express  the  juice  of  ripe  tomatoes,  and  put  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  the  juice,  put  it  in  bottles,  and 
set  it  aside.  In  a  few  weeks  it  will  have  the  appear- 
ance and  flavor  of  pure  wine  of  the  best  kind,  and  mix- 
ed with  water  is  a  delightful  beverage  for  the  sick. 
No  alcohol  is  needed  to  pieserve  it. 

The  medical  properties  of  the  tomato  are  in  high  re- 
pute, and  it  is  supposed  that  this  syrup  retains  all  that 
is  contained  in  the  fruit. 

Arrowroot  Custard  for  Invalids. 

One  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot. 

One  pint  of  milk.     One  egg. 

One  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Mix  the  arrowroot  with  a  httle  of  the  cold  milk, 
put  the  milk  into  a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire,  and  when  it 
boils,  stir  in  the  arrowroot  and  the  tgg  and  sugar,  well 
beaten  together.  Let  it  scald,  and  pour  into  cups  to 
cool.  A  little  cinnamon  boiled  in  the  milk  flavors  it 
pleasantly. 

Sago  for  Ijivalids. 

Wash  one  large  spoonful  of  sago,  boil  it  in  a  little 
water.  With  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  or  two  sticks  of  cin- 
namon, until  it  looks  clear  ;  then  add  a  pint  of  milk, 
boil  all  well  together,  and  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar. 

Rice  Jelly. 

Make  a  thin  paste  of  two  ounces  of  rice  flour,  and 
three  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  boil  them  in  a  quart  of 
water   till  transparent.     Flavor  with  rose,   orange,  or 

17* 


198  RECEIPTS    FOK    FOOD 

cinnamon  water.     It  can  be  made  also  by  boiling  whole 
rice  long  and  slowly.     A  pinch  of  salt  improves  it. 

iSassafras  Jelly. 

Take  the  pith  of  sassafras  boughs,  break  it  in  small 
pieces,  and  let  it  soak  in  cold  water  till  the  water  be- 
comes glutinous.  It  has  the  flavor  of  sassafras,  and  is 
much  relished  by  the  sick,  and  is  also  good  nourish- 
ment. 

Buttermilk  Whey. 

One  quart  of  good  buttermilk.  When  boiling,  beat 
up  the  yolk  of  an  e>g^^  and  stir  in,  and,  if  it  can  be  al- 
lowed, some  thick  cream,  or  a  little  butter.  Then  beat 
the  white  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in.  Sugar  and  spice 
if  liked. 

Alum  Whey. 

Mix  half  an  ounce  of  pounded  alum  with  one  pint  of 
milk.  Strain  it,  and  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  the 
whey.  It  is  good  in  cases  of  hemorrhages,  and  some- 
times for  colic. 

Aiiothe)^  Wine  Whey. 

One  pint  of  boiling  milk. 

Two  wine-glasses  of  wine. 

Boil  them  one  moment,  stirring. 

Take  out  the  curd,  and  sweeten  and  flavor  the  whey. 

Mulled  Wine. 

One  pint  of  wine  and  one  pint  of  water. 
Beat  eight  eggs  and  add  to  the  above,  while  boiling, 
stirring  rapidly.     As  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  it  is  done. 

Tamarind  Whey. 

Mix  an  ounce  of  tamarind  pulp  with  a  pint  of  milk, 
strain  it,  and  add  a  little  white  sugar  to  the  whey. 


AND    BRINKS    FOR    THE    SICK.  1 9d 

Egg  Tea  and  Egg  Coffee  {very  fine). 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  great  spoonful  of 
sugar,  and  put  it  to  a  tea-cup  of  cold  tea  or  cold  coffee. 
Add  a  half  a  tea-cup  of  water,  cold  in  sunnner  and  boil- 
ing in  winter,  and  as  much  cream.  Then  whip  the 
white  of  the  eg^  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  it  in.  It  is  very 
much  relished  by  invalids. 

Cranberry  Tea. 

Wash  ripe  cranberries,  mash  them,  pour  boiling 
water  on  them,  and  then  strain  off  the  water  and 
sweeten  it,  and  grate  on  nutmeg. 

Apple  Tea. 

Take  good  pippins,  slice  them  thin,  pour  on  boiling 
water,  and  let  it  stand  some  time.  Pour  off  the  water, 
and  sweeten  and  flavor  it. 

Egg  and  Milk. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  into  a  great  spoonful  of 
w^hite  sugar,  or  more.  Add  a  coffee  cup  of  good  milk, 
then  beat  the  Avhite  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir 
it  in.     A  little  wine,  or  nutmeg  to  flavor  it. 

Sago  Milk. 

Soak  one  ounce  of  sago  in  a  pint  of  cold  w^ater  an 
hour.  Pour  off  the  water,  and  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
new  milk.  Simmer  it  slowly  tiU  the  sago  and  milk  are 
well  mixed.     Flavor  with  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  wine. 

Tapioca  Milk. 
Made  like  sago  milk,  only  not  boiled  so  long. 

Bread  and  Milk. 

Take  a  slice  of  good  bread  and  soak  it  in  milk,  and 
then  put  on  a  little  butter,  and  it  is  often  very  accept- 
able to  the  sick.  In  some  cases  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on 
instead  of  butter. 


200  RECEIPTS    FOR    FOOD 

Egg  Gruel. 

Beat  the  j^olk  of  an  egg  with  a  spoonful  of  white  sugar, 
and  then  beat  the  wliite  separately,  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour 
water  when  boiling  to  the  yolk,  then  stir  in  the  white 
and  add  spice,  or  any  seasoning,  to  suit  the  taste. 
When  a  person  has  taken  a  violent  cold,  after  being 
warm  in  bed  give  this  as  hoi  as  it  can  be  taken,  and  it 
is  often  a  perfect  cure. 

Groiaid  Rice  Griiel. 

Take  two  tablespoon fuls  of  ground  rice,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  mix  ii  with  milk  enougii  for  a  thin  batter. 
Stir  it  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  or  boiling  milk,  and 
flavor  with  sugar  and  spice. 

Oatmeal  Gniel. 

Four  tablespoon  fuls  of  grits  (coarse  oatmeal)  and  a 
pinch  of  salt,  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Strain  and 
flavor  it  while  warm. 

Or,  take  fine  oatmeal  and  make  a  thin  batter  with  a 
little  cold  water,  and  pour  it  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling 
water. 

Simple  Barley  Water, 

Take  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  pearl  barley,  cleanse 
it,  and  boil  it  ten  minutes  in  half  a  pint  of  water.  Strain 
out  this  water  and  add  tw^o  (juarts  of  boiling  water,  and 
boil  it  down  to  one  quart.  Then  strain  it,  and  flavor  it 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  suo^ar,  or  suarar  and  nutmeo:. 

This  is  very  acceptable  to  the  sick  in  fevers. 

Compound  Barley  Water. 

Take  two  pinis  of  simple  barley  water,  a  pint  of  hot 
water,  two  and  a  half  ounces  of  sliced  figs,  half  an 
ounce  of  liquorice  root  sliced  and  bruised,  and  two 
ounces  and  a  half  of  raisins.  Boil  all  down  to  two  pints, 
and  strain  it.     This  is  slightly  aperient. 


AND   DRINKS    FOR   THE    SICK.  '  201 

Cream  Tartar  Beverage. 

Take  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  and  pour 
on  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  flavor  it  with  white  sugar 
and  lemon  peel  to  suit  the  taste.  If  this  is  too  acid,  add 
more  boiling  water,  as  cold,  or  lukewarm  water,  is  not 
so  good. 

SeidUtz  Powders. 

Two  drachms  of  Rochelle  salts,  and  two  scruples  of 
bicarbonate  of  soda,  in  a  white  paper ;  thirty-five  grains 
of  tartaric  acid  in  a  blue  one. 

Dissolve  that  in  the  white  paper  in  nearly  half  a 
tumbler  of  water,  then  add  the  other  powder,  dissolved 
in  another  half  tumbler  of  water. 

Syrup  mixed  with  the  water  makes  it  more  agree- 
able.    It  it  a  gentle  laxative. 

Blackberry  Syrup,  for  Cholera  and  Summer  Com- 

plaint. 

Two  quarts  of  blackberry  juice. 
One  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 
Half  an  ounce  of  nutmegs. 
A  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves. 
Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon. 
Half  an  ounce  of  allspice. 

Pulverize  the  spice,  and  boil  all  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.     When  cold,  add  a  pint  of  brandy. 

Remarks  07i  the  Combinations  of  Cooking. 

The  preceding  receipts  have  been  tested  by  the  best 
housekeepers.  In  reviewing  them,  it  will  be  seen  that 
there  are  several  ways  of  combining  the  various  articles, 
all  of  which  have,  in  the  hands  of  good  housekeepers, 
proved  successful.  Still  it  will  be  found  that  some  meth- 
ods are  more  successful  than  others. 

In  most  cases,  the  receipts  have  been  written  as  given 
by  the  ladies,  who  endorse  them  as  the  best.  But  it  is 
believed  that  the  following  general  rules  will  enable  a 
housekeeper  to  modify  some  of  them  to  advantage. 


202  RECEIPTS   FOR    FOOD 

In  using  the  whites  of  eggs,  it  is  found,  as  shown  by 
several  receipts,  that  various  combinations  are  much 
lighter  when  they  are  cut  to  a  froth,  and  put  in  the  last 
thing.  This  is  so  in  batter  puddings,  and  several  other 
receipts.  It  seems,  therefore,  probable  that  in  all  cases, 
cake  and  pies,  and  puddings  that  will  allow  it,  will  be 
lighter  by  adding  the  cut  whites  of  the  eggs  the  last  nihi- 
ute  before  cooking.  Sponge  cake  especially  would  most 
probably  be  most  easily  made  light  by  this  method. 

In  using  alkalies  Avith  acids  to  raise  mixtures,  the 
poorest  is  pearlash,  the  next  best  is  saleratus  ;  bicarbo- 
nate of  soda  is  still  better,  and  sal  volatile  is  best  of  all. 

But  one  thing  must  be  remembered  in  reference  to 
sal  volatile,  and  that  is,  that  the  lightness  made  by  it  is 
owing  to  the  disengagement  of  the  gas  by  heat.  It  is 
mixed  with  the  flour,  and  when  set  in  the  oven,  the  heat 
volatilizes  and  expels  the  gas,  and  thus  the  lightness  is  in- 
duced. Of  course  hot  water  must  not  be  used  to  dissolve 
it,  as  it  would  expel  much  of  the  gas.  Sal  volatile  must 
be  kept  powdered,  and  closely  confined  in  glass  bottles 
with  ground  glass  stoppers.  It  is  certain  to  make  any 
mixture  light  that  can  be  raised  by  anything. 

Cream  tartar  is  best  bought  in  lumps,  and  then  pul- 
verized and  kept  corked. 

When  saleratus  is  used  with  sour  milk  or  buttermilk, 
the  flour  should  be  wet  up  with  the  sour  milk,  and  then 
the  alkali  dissolved,  and  worked  in.  This  makes  the 
effervescence  take  place  in  the  Tnixtnre  ;  whereas,  if  the 
alkali  is  put  into  the  sour  liquid,  much  of  the  carbonic 
acid  generated  is  lost  before  it  reaches  the  flour. 

In  all  cases,  then,  where  saleratus  is  used  with  acid 
wetting,  it  would  seem  best  to  wet  up  the  flour  with  at 
least  a  part  of  the  sour  hquid,  before  putting  in  the  al^ 
kah. 

When  the  alkali  is  a  light  powder,  it  may  sometimes 
be  mixed  thoroughly  with  the  flour,  and  then  the  sour 
liquid  be  mixed  in.  The  experiment  can  be  made  by 
any  who  like  to  learn  the  result.  A  lady  who  under- 
stands chemistry  may  often  improve  her  receipts  by  ap- 
plying chemical  principles.     All  the  lightness  made  by 


AND    DRINKS    FOR    THE    SiCK.  S03 

an  acid  and  an  alkali  is  owing  to  the  disengagement  of 
carbonic  acid,  which  is  retained  by  the  gluten  of  the 
flour.  Of  course,  then,  that  mode  is  best  which  secures 
most  effectually  all  the  carbonic  acid  generated  by  the 
combination. 

Cooking  is  often  much  improved  by  a  judicious  use 
of  sugar  or  molasses.  Thus,  in  soups,  a  very  little  su- 
gar, say  half  a  teaspoonful  to  the  quart,  gives  bodi/  to  the 
soup,  and  just  about  as  much  sweetness  as  is  found  in  the 
juices  of  the  best  and  sweetest  kinds  of  meat.  It  is 
very  good  when  the  meats  used  are  of  inferior  kind, 
and  destitute  of  sweetness.  So  in  preparing  vegetables 
that  are  destitute  of  sweetness,  a  little  sugar  is  a  great 
improvement.  Mashed  turnips,  squash,  and  pumpkin, 
are  all  of  them  much  improved  by  extracting  all  the  wa- 
ter, and  adding  a  little  sugar,  especially  so  when  they 
are  poor. 

A  little  molasses  always  improves  all  bread  or  cakes 
made  of  unbolted  wheat  or  rye. 

A  little  lard  or  butter  always  improves  cakes  made  of 
Indian  meal,  as  it  makes  them  light  and  tender. 

The  careful  use  of  salt  is  very  important  in  cooking. 
Everything  is  better  to  have  the  salt  cooked  in  it,  but 
there  should  always  be  a  little  less  salt  than  most  would 
like,  as  it  is  easy  for  those  who  wish  more  to  add  it,  but 
none  can  subtract  it. 

When  the  shortening  is  butter,  no  salt  is  needed  in 
cakes  and  puddings,  but  in  all  combinations  that  have  no 
salt  in  shortening,  it  must  be  added.  A  little  salt  in 
sponge  cake,  custards,  and  the  articles  used  for  desserts, 
made  of  gelatine,  rice,  sago,  and  tapioca,  is  a  great  im- 
provement, giving  both  body  and  flavor. 


5J04  BFTTEE   AND   CHEESE. 


CHAPTER    XXI. 

ON    MAKING    BUTTER    AND    CHEESE. 

The  directions  in  this  article  were  given  by  a  prac- 
tical amateui'  cheese-maker  of  Goshen,  Conn.,  a  place 
distinguished  ail  over  the  nation  for  the  finest  butter 
and  cheese. 

Articles  used  in  Making  Cheese. 

The  articles  used  in  making  ciieese  are,  a  large  tub, 
painted  inside  and  outside,  to  hold  the  milk,  a  large 
brass  kettle  to  heat  it,  a  cheese  basket,  cheese  hooks, 
cheese  ladders,  strainers  of  loose  linen  cloth,  and  a 
cheese  press. 

It  is  indispensable  that  all  the  articles  used  te  first 
washed  thoroughly,  then  scalded,  and  then  dried  thor- 
oughly, before  putting  away. 

Mode  of  Preparing  the  Rennet. 

Do  not  remove  any  part  of  the  curd  that  may  be 
found  in  the  rennet  (which  is  the  stomach  of  a  calf),  as 
it  is  the  best  part.  Take  out  everything  mixed  with 
the  curd  in  the  stomach.  Soak  the  rennet  in  a  quart 
of  water,  then  hang  it  to  dry,  Avhere  fiies  will  not  reach 
it,  and  keep  the  water  bottled  for  use.  Rennet  difTers  in 
strength,  so  that  no  precise  rule  can  be  given  for  quan- 
tity, iDUt  sa}^  about  half  a  tea-cup  full  to  two  pails  of  milk. 

To  Make  Cheese. 

Strain  the  milk  info  the  tub,  keeping  in  all  the  creanu 
Heat  a  portion,  and  then  add  it  to  the  cold,  till  the  whole  is 
raised  to  98°  or  100°  Fahrenheit ;  no  more  and  no  less. 
Then  put  in  the  rennet,  stirring  well,  and  lake  enouoh 


BUTTER    AND    CHEESE.  205 

to  have  the  curd  form  well  in  an  hour.     If  it  does  not 
form  well,  more  must  be  stirred  in. 

When  the  curd  is  formed,  cut  it  in  small  checks  to  th 
bottom,  and  then  break  it  gently  with  a  skimmer,  to  make 
the  whey  separate.     If  this  is  not  done  gently,  the  milk 
runs  off,  the  whey  turns  white,  and  the  cheese  is  inju- 
red.    The  greener  the  whey,  the  better  the  cheese. 

When  the  whey  is  separated,  set  the  basket  over  the  tub, 
spread  the  strainer  over,  and  dip  the  curd  into  it,  occa- 
sionally lifting  the  corners  to  hasten  the  draining. 

Then  draw  up  the  corners,  twist  them,  and  seta  stone 
on,  to  press  out  the  whey  for  ten  minutes.  Then  a^-ain 
cut  up  the  curd,  and  press  it  again  as  before.  Con- 
tinue thus  till  it  is  thoroughly  drained.  Then  press  it 
all  into  some  regular  form,  and  in  cool  weather  it  may 
stand  till  next  morning  for  more  cheese  to  be  added. 
But  if  the  weather  is  hot,  it  must  be  scalded  the  first 
day. 

To  Scald  the  Curd. 

Cut,  or  chop  the  curd  into  cakes  the  fourth  of  an 
inch  in  size,  put  it  in  the  strainer,  and  immerse  it 
in  the  brass  kettle  of  warm  water,  enough  to  cover  it. 
Then  raise  the  temperature  to  105^.  Stir  it  well  till 
warmed  through,  say  half  an  hour.  Then  gradually 
add  cold  water,  till  reduced  to  88°  or  90°.  Then 
drain  the  curd  thoroughly  as  before,  and  salt  it,  al- 
lowing four  ounces  of  salt  to  every  ten  pounds  of  curd, 
and  mixing  very  thoroughly.  Then  put  it  into  the 
small  strainers,  and  then  into  the  cheese  hoops,  laying 
the  strainer  over  smoothly,  and  placing  the  follower  on 
it.  Put  it  to  press,  and  let  it  remain  two  days.  W^hen 
taken  from  the  press,  grease  it  with  common  butter  or 
butter  made  of  whey  cream,  and  set  it  on  a  shelf  in  a 
dark,  cool  room.  Grease  and  turn  it  every  day  till  firm, 
and  for  six  months  grease  and  turn  it  often. 

If  the  cheese  is  to  be  colored,  boil  anatto  with  ley, 
and  put  to  the  milk  with  the  rennet.  To  make  sage 
cheese,  put  in  sage  juice  (some  add  to  the  sage  spin- 
ach juice)  when  you  put  in  the  rennet.  Sew  strips  of 
stiong  cotton  around  large  cheeses,  when  taken  from 

18 


206  BUTTER    AND    CHEESE. 

the  press,  to  preserve  their  form.  In  fly  time,  put  cay- 
enne pepper  in  the  butter  you  rub  on. 

Stilton  cheese  is  made  of  milk  enriched  by  cream, 
and  of  a  small  size. 

Cottage  cheese  is  made  by  pressing  the  curds  of  milk, 
and  when  free  from  whey,  adding  cream  or  butter  and 
salt. 

Welsh  rabbit  is  made  by  melting  cheese  and  adding 
wine  and  other  seasoning. 

Old  and  dry  cheese  is  very  good  grated  and  mixed 
with  a  little  brandy,  just  enough  to  wet  it  up. 

Directio7is  for  making  Butter. 

Two  particulars  are  indispensable  to  success  in  mak- 
ing good  butter ;    the  first  is,  that  the  churning  be  fre- 
quent, so  that  the  cream  will  not  grow  bitter,  or  sour  ; 
and  the  second  is  cleanliness  in  all  the  implements  an 
processes  connected  with  it. 

In  hot  weather  it  is  important  to  keep  the  milk,  cream, 
and  butter  as  cool  as  possible.  For  this  purpose,  those 
who  have  no  ice-house,  or  very  cool  milk-room,  hang 
their  cream  down  a  well.  In  winter  it  is  needful  to  raise 
the  temperature  of  the  cream  a  little,  while  churning, 
but  care  must  be  taken  to  do  it  very  slightly,  or  the  but- 
ter is  injured.  The  best  way  is  to  warm  the  churn,  and 
churn  in  a  warm  room. 

After  the  weather  gets  cold,  the  cream  rises  more  per- 
fectly after  allowing  the  milk  to  stand  say  ten  or  eleven 
hours,  to  set  it  over  a  furnace  a  while  till  it  is  warmed 
through,  but  not  heated  hot  enough  to  boil.  Then  take 
it  back,  let  it  stand  eleven  hours  longer,  and  skim  it. 
This  secures  more,  and  better  cream. 

In  hot  weather,  set  the  churn  into  a  tub  of  cold  wa- 
ter, and  churn  steadily,  as  stopping  puts  back  the  pro- 
cess, and  injures  the  butter.  In  hot  weather,  do  not 
churn  very  fast,  as  it  makes  soft  butter.  When  the  but- 
ter has  come,  collect  it  in  a  wooden  bowl,  which  is  the 
best  article  to  work  it  in,  having  first  scalded  it,  and  then 
put  it  in  cold  water  till  cold.  Do  not  use  the  hand  in 
working  over  butter,  as  it  injures  it  so  much  that  a  high- 


BUTTER   AND   CHEESE.  207 

er  price  is  often  paid  for  butter  made  without  using  the 
hand. 

A  wooden  spad  made  for  the  purpose  is  the  proper  ar- 
ticle for  working  over  butter. 

As  soon  as  the  butter  is  put  in  the  bowl,  pour  in  as 
much  of  the  coldest  water  as  will  allow  you  to  work  the 
butter,  and  keep  adding  and  pouring  off  cold  water,  as 
you  work  it,  until  the  water  will  run  off  clear.  It  is  con- 
tinuing this  process  until  all  the  buttermilk  is  extracted, 
which  alone  will  secure  butter  that  will  keep  good  and 
sweet.  Water  hastens  the  process,  but  butter  keeps 
longer  not  to  have  it  used. 

No  precise  direction  can  be  given  for  salting,  as  tastes 
vary  so  much  in  regard  to  this.  It  is  a  good  way  to  no- 
tice the  proportions  which  are  most  agreeable,  and  note 
the  measure,  and  then  measure  ever  after. 

In  salting  down  in  firkins,  use  the  nicest  rock  salt,  as 
much  depends  on  the  nature  of  the  salt.  The  firkins 
must  be  very  thoroughly  seasoned,  and  the  bottom  cov- 
ered with  salt,  and  the  sides  rubbed  with  it.  Pack  the 
butter  in  layers,  with  salt  between.  After  a  few  days, 
the  butter  will  shrink  from  the  sides,  and  then  the  space 
must  be  filled  with  new  and  nice  brine.  Muslin  spread 
under  and  over  the  layer  of  salt,  between  the  layers  of 
butter  is  a  good  plan,  as  it  saves  the  butter. 

It  is  said  that  butter  will  be  preserved  sweet  a  long 
time  for  journeys,  or  voyages,  by  working  into  it  very 
thoroughly  a  mixture  composed  of  one-fourth  salt,  one- 
fourth  saltpetre,  and  two-fourths  white  sugar. 

In  large  dairies,  the  milk  is  churned  soon  after  it  is 
taken  from  the  cow. 

The  quality  of  butter  depends  ver}^  much  upon  the 
kind  of  cows.  Those  who  give  a  great  deal  of  milk,  are 
usually  small  and  thin.  Every  cow  should  have  a  tea- 
cup full  of  salt  each  week,  and  must  be  well  fed.  Green 
cornstalks  and  carrots,  are  excellent  for  cows.  Turnips, 
cabbage,  and  parsnips  spoil  the  milk.  Tlie  waste  of 
the  kitchen,  with  a  quart  of  corn  meal,  and  as  much 
hay  as  she  will  eat  daily,  is  good  fare.  Skimmed  milk 
for  drink  is  good,  and  if  it  is  refused,  withhold  water,  and 


208  BUTTER   AND    CHEESE. 

the  cow  will  learn  to  love  it.  Milk  three  times  a  day, 
and  you  get  much  more  cream  ;  stripping'  must  be  done 
thoroughly,  or  you  lose  cream,  and  dry  up  the  cow. 
Never  make  a  cow  run,  as  it  injures  the  milk.  Use  tin 
vessels  for  milk. 

A  stoneware  churn  is  best,  and  a  tin  one  is  better 
than  wood.  Keep  milk  iu  a  cool  place,  where  air  cir- 
culates freely  ;  close  air  spoils  milk  and  cream.  Never 
stir  milk  after  it  is  set,  as  it  stops  the  rising  of  the  cream. 
Skim  milk  as  soon  as  it  becomes  loppard.  Put  a  little 
ice  in  each  pan  in  hot  weather,  and  you  get  more  cream. 
In  skimming  milk,  do  not  scrape  off  the  hardest  portion 
that  adheres  to  the  pan,  as  it  injures  the  butter.  Put 
a  spoonful  of  salt  to  each  pailful  of  milk  (except  what  is 
for  family  use),  and  it  makes  the  butter  sweeter,  and 
come  easier.  Salt  your  cream  as  you  gather  it,  and  it 
keeps  better,  and  makes  sweeter  butter.  In  hot  weath- 
er churn  in  the  coolest  part  of  the  day,  and  in  a  cool 
place,  and  do  not  shut  the  air  out  of  the  churn,  as  it  is 
necessary  to  make  the  butter  come.  Butter  is  best,  to 
work  it  enough  the  first  time.  Never  work  it  three 
times.  It  will  keep  better  to  work  out  the  buttermilk 
without  putting  in  water.  The  more  entirely  it  is  freed 
from  buttermilk,  the  longer  it  will  keep  sweet. 

A  good  brine  is  made  for  butter  by  dissolving  a  quart 
of  fine  salt,  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
saltpetre  in  two  quarts  of  water,  and  then  strain  it  on 
to  the  butter.  Packed  butter  is  most  perfectly  preserved 
sweet  by  setting  the  firkin  into  a  larger  firkin,  and  fill- 
ing in  with  good  brine,  and  covering  it.  Butter  will 
keep  sweet  a  year  thus. 

Buttermilk  kept  in  potter's  ware  dissolves  the  glazing, 
and  becomes  poisonous. 

Never  scald  strainers  or  milky  vessels  till  thoroughly 
washed,  as  the  milk  or  cream  put  in  them  will  be  in- 
jured by  it.  The  best  way  to  scald  such  vessels  is  to 
plunge  them  all  over  into  scalding  water,  and  then  every 
spot  is  scalded. 

Butter  will  sometimes  not  come  because  the  air  is  too 
much  excluded  from  the  churn. 


ARTICLES    AND   CONVENIENCES    FOR   THE    SICK.         209 


CHAPTER  XXII. 

ARTICLES    AND    CONVENIENCES    FOR    THE    SICK. 

*'-In  so)iie  maladies,"  says  Dr.  Pereira,  "as  fevers 
and  acute  iritiamnnatory  diseases,  an  almost  unlimited 
use  of  fluids  is  admitted,  under  the  names  of  slops,  thin 
diet,  fever  diet,  broth  diet,  &c.  They  quench  tliirst, 
lessen  the  stimulating  quality  of  the  blood,  increase  its 
fluidity,  and  promote  the  actions  of  the  secreting  organs. 
They  are  sometimes  useful,  also,  in  lessening  tlie  irrita- 
ting contents  of  the  alimentary  canal." 

"  But  in  some  maladies  it  is  necessary  to  restrict  the 
quantity  of  fluids  taken,  or,  in  other  words,  to  employ  a 
dry  diety 

As  it  is  so  customary  for  invalids  to  throng  to  watering 
places,  the  following  remarks  contain  very  important 
cautions. 

"  The  Congress  Water  at  Saratoga,"  says  Dr.  Lee, 
'•though  it  possesses  active  medical  qualities,  yet,  except 
in  diseases  attended  with  inflammatory  action,  seldom 
occasions  unpleasant  consequences,  unless  drank  in  very 
large  quantities,  when  it  often  causes  serious,  if  not  dan- 
gerous eiTects."  Dr.  Steel,  a  physician  who  has  devoted 
much  attention  to  this  subject,  remarks,  "  About  threa 
pints  should  be  taken,  an  hour  or  two  before  breakfast, 
and  be  followed  by  exercise,  to  produce  a  cathartic  effect. 
Where  more  is  needed  for  this  effect,  add  a  teaspoonful 
or  tv/o  of  Epsom  salts  to  the  first  tumbler.  It  should 
not  be  drank  at  all  during  the  remainder  of  the  day  by 
those  who  wish  to  experience  the  full  benefit  of  its  use. 
It  would  be  better  for  those  whose  complaints  render  them 
fit  subjects  for  its  administration,  if  the  fountain  should 
be  locked  up,  and  no  one  suffered  to  approach  it  after  the 
hour  of  nine  or  ten  in  the  morning." 

It  is  probable  that  multitudes  who  frequent  mineral 

18* 


210  ARTICLES    AND    CONVENIENCES 

springs,  not  only  lose  all  benefit,  but  suffer  injury  by  the 
excessive  use  of  the  water.  Such  waters  should,  by  in- 
vahds,  be  taken  under  the  direction  of  a  physician  well 
acquainted  with  their  nature  and  uses. 

AlcohoUc  drinks  should  never  be  given  to  the  sick,  ex- 
cept by  direction  of  a  physician,  as  they  are  powerful 
medical  agents,  and  in  some  cases  would  increase  dis- 
ease. 

The  acid  drinks  are  ordinarily  those  most  relished  by 
the  sick,  and  they  are,  usually,  very  serviceable,  espe- 
cially in  febrile  and  other  inflammatory  attacks.  Ice 
cream  and  drinks  are  good  for  the  sick,  especially  in 
fevers. 

When  a  person  is  debilitated  by  sickness,  the  stomach 
should  never  be  loaded  with  rich  food.  Nor  should  the 
palate  be  tempted  by  favorite  articles,  when  no  appetite 
for  food  exists,  as  this  is  the  indication  of  nature  that  the 
stomach  is  in  no  order  to  digest  food. 

Dr.  Lee  remarks,  "  We  regard  rice  as  the  most  valu- 
able of  all  the  articles  of  food,  in  cases  of  the  derange- 
ment of  the  digestive  organs.  It  nourishes,  while  it  soothes 
the  irritable  mucous  membrane,  and  while  it  supports 
strength,  never  seems  to  aggravate  the  existing  disease. 
For  acute,  or  chronic  affections  of  the  alimentary  canal, 
rice  water  for  drink,  and  rice  jelly  for  food,  seem  peculiar- 
ly w^ell  adapted,  and  appear  to  exert  a  specific  influence 
in  bringing  about  a  recovery.  These  preparations  are 
invaluable  also  in  convalescence  from  acute  fevers  and 
other  maladies,  and  in  the  summer  complaints  of  young 
children." 

"Isinglass  is  a  very  pure  form  of  gelatine,  and  dis- 
solved in  milk,  sweetened  and  flavored,  is  taken  with 
advantage  by  convalescents  when  recovering  from  de- 
bihty." 

Cod  sounds,  and  the  American  gelatine,  are  equally 
good.  Calve's  foot  jelly,  blanc  mange,  and  other  gelat- 
inous food,  are  among  the  best  kinds  of  nourishment, 
especially  in  cases  of  cholera  infantum.  The  slight 
quantity  of  spice  or  wine  used  to  flavor  such  articles,  ex- 
cept in  peculiar  cases,  cannot  do  any  injury. 


FOR   THE    SICK.  211 

Buttered  toast,  either  dry  or  dipped,  rarely  is  a  suitable 
article  for  the  sick,  as  melted  oils  are  very  difficult  of  di- 
gestion. Where  there  are  strong  powers  of  digestion,  it 
may  be  proper. 

Slany  cases  of  illness,  among  both  adults  and  children, 
are  readily  cured  by  abstinence  from  all  food.  Head- 
aches, disordered  stomachs,  and  many  other  attacks,  are 
caused,  often,  by  violating  the  rules  of  health  laid  down  in 
the  preceding  chapter,  and  in  consequence,  some  part  of  the 
system  is  overloaded,  or  some  of  the  organs  are  clogged. 
Omitting  one,  t\vo,  or  three  meals,  as  the  case  may  be, 
gives  the  system  a  chance  to  rest,  and  thus  to  gain 
strength,  and  allows  the  clogged  organs  to  dispose  of 
their  burdens.  The  practice  of  giving  drugs  to  "clear 
out  the  stomach,"  though  it  may  afford  the  needed  re- 
lief, always  weakens  the  system,  while  abstinence  se- 
cures the  good  result,  and  yet  does  no  injury. 

Said  a  young  gentleman  to  a  distinguished  medical 
practitioner  of  Philadelphia, — "  Doctor,  Avhat  do  you  do 
for  yourself,  when  you  have  a  turn  of  headache,  or  other 
shght  attack  ?"  "Go  without  my  dinner,"  was  there- 
ply.  "  Well,  if  that  will  not  do,  what  do  you  do  then  V 
"Go  without  my  supper,"  was  the  answ^er.  "  But  if  that 
does  not  cure  you,  what  then  ?"  "  Go  without  my 
breakfast.  We  physicians  seldom  take  medicines  our- 
selves, or  use  them  in  our  families,  for  %oe  know  that 
starving  is  better,  but  we  cannot  make  our  patients  be- 
lieve it." 

Many  cases  of  shght  indisposition  are  cured  by  a 
change  of  diet.  Thus,  if  a  person  suffers  from  consti- 
pation, and,  as  the  consequence,  has  headaches,  slight  at- 
tacks of  fever,  or  dyspepsia,  the  cause  often  may  be  re- 
moved by  eating  rye  mush  and  molasses  for  breakfast, 
brown  bread,  baked  apples,  and  other  fruits. 

In  cases  of  diarrhoea,  rice  water  for  drink,  and  rice 
pudding  or  jelly,  w^ill  often  remove  the  evil. 

In  cases  of  long-continued  confinement  from  sickness, 
it  is  very  desirable  to  have  a  good  variety  of  articles  for 
the  sick,  as  the  invaUd  is  wearied  with  the  same  round, 


212  ARTICLES   AND    CONVENIENCES 

and  perhaps  may  be  siiflfeiing  for  some  ingredient  of 
food,  which  is  not  found  in  the  articles  provided. 

For  this  reason,  a  large  number  of  receipts  of  articles 
for  the  sick  have  been  provided  in  this  work.  In  pre- 
paring them,  great  care  should  be  used  to  have  every 
article  employed  clean  and  pure,  and  to  prevent  any 
burning  in  cooking,  as  the  sensibilities  of  the  sick  to  bad 
tastes  and  smells  are  very  acute. 

It  is  often  the  case  in  dyspepsia  and  cholera  infantum, 
that  jellies  of  American  gelatine  are  very  much  better 
than  any  preparations  of  farinaceous  food,  being  much 
more  easily  digested. 

It  would  be  a  happ}''  thing  for  the  sick,  and  a  most 
benevolent  custom,  if  the  young  ladies  of  a  place  should 
practise  cooking  the  various  articles  for  the  sick,  and  car- 
rying tiiem  to  invahds  as  an  offering  of  kindness  and 
sympathy.  It  would  be  twice  a  blessing,  first  to  the 
invalid,  and  cjuite  as  much  to  the  young  benefactress. 

There  are  many  little  comforts  and  alleviations  for 
the  sick,  which  should  be  carefully  attended  to,  which 
are  particularly  pointed  out  m  the  chapter  on  the  Care  of 
the  Sick,  in  the  Domestic  Economy.  Such,  for  exam- 
ple, as  keeping  a  room  neat,  clean,  and  in  perfect  or- 
der, having  every  article  in  use  sweet  and  clean,  keep- 
ing a  good  supply  of  cool  water,  providing  pleasant  per- 
fumes, lemons,  flowers,  and  other  objects  agreeable  to  the 
senses,  speaking  softly,  kindly,  and  cheerfully,  and  read- 
ing the  Bible  ami  other  cheering  books  of  the  kind,  when- 
ever it  will  be  acceptable.  Be  careful  to  change  the  lin- 
en next  the  skin,  and  the  bed  linen,  often.  Be  sure  to 
ventilate  the  loom  thoroughly,  tvv'^o  or  three  times  a  day, 
as  pure  air  is  a  great  restorative  of  health  and  strength. 
Wash  the  skin  often,  as  it  has  a  great  tendency  to  re- 
store health,  and  never,  except  in  very  peculiar  cases, 
can  do  any  harm. 

Always  request  a  physician  to  write  all  his  directions, 
that  no  mistake  may  be  made,  and  nothing  be  forgotten. 
Always  inquire  of  him  as  to  the  exact  mode  of  prepar- 
ing every  article  ordered,  and  never  venture  to  alter, 
or  omit,  what  he  directs,  unless  you  are  sure  that  you 


rOR   THE    SICK. 


213 


are  better  qualified  to  practise  than  he,  in  which  case 
he  should  be  dismissed,  and  you  should  asi^ume  his 
duties. 

Always  keep  all  medicines  in  papers  and  vials,  label- 
led, that  poisons  be  not  given  by  mistake,  or  other  inju- 
rious articles  used. 

The  drawing  at  Fig.  5  represents  a  contrivance  for 
the  sick,  which  ought  to  be  prepared  in  every  village,  to 
rent  out  to  those  who  need  it. 


Fig.  5. 


It  is  called  the  Water  Bed,  or  Hydrostatic  Couch, 
and  is  made  at  an  expense  of  from  twelve  to  fifteen  dol- 
lars. The  object  of  it  is  to  relieve  the  sufferings  of  those 
who.  from  extreme  emaciation,  or  from  ulcers,  or  bed 
sores,  are  great  sufferers  from  the  pressure  of  the  bed  on 
these  sore  places.  This  kind  of  bed  proves  a  great  re- 
lief from  this  kind  of  suffering. 

It  consists  of  a  wooden  box,  six  feet  long,  and  two  feet 
and  a  half  wide  at  the  top,  and  the  sides  gradually  sloping 
inward,  making  it  fourteen  inches  deep.  This  is  lined 
with  sheet  zinc,  to  make  it  water  tight.  Over  this  is 
thrown,  and  fastened  to  the  edge  of  the  box,  a  sheet  of 
thick  India  rubber,  water-proof  cloth,  large  enough  for 
an  entire  lining  to  the  inside  of  the  box.  The  edges 
of  it  are  first  made  to  adhere  to  the  upper  edge  of  the 
box  with  spirit  varnish,  and  then  a  thin  strip  of  board  is 
nailed  on,  to  fasten  it  firmly,  and  make  it  water  tight. 
Near  the  bottom,  at  A,  is  a  hole  and  plug,  to  let  off 
water  ;  and  at  B,  a  tin  tube,  soldered  in  the  upper  part 
of  the  outside,  to  pour  water  in.  When  used,  the  Idox 
is  to  be  filled  half  full  of  Avater,  about  blood  warmth. 
Then  a  woollen  blanket  and  pillow  are  laid  upon  the  In- 


214 


ARTICLES   AND   CONVENIENCES 


clia  rubber  cloth,  and  the  patient  laid  on  them,  and  he 
will  float  as  he  would  in  water,  and  there  will  be  no 
pressure  on  any  part  of  the  body  greater  than  is  felt 
when  the  body  is  in  water. 

This  is  important  for  all  who  suffer  from  bed  sores,  or 
sloughing  in  protracted  fevers,  from  diseases  in  the  hip- 
joint,  from  diseases  of  the  spine,  lingering  consumption, 
and  all  diseases  that  compel  to  a  protracted  recumbent 
position.  None  but  those  who  have,  seen,  or  experien- 
ced the  relief  and  comfort  secured  to  sufferers  by  this  bed, 
can  conceive  of  its  value.  The  writer  saw  the  case  of  a 
young  man,  who  was  enduring  indescribable  tortures 
with  the  most  dreadful  ulcers  all  over  his  body,  and  who 
had  for  several  days  and  nights  been  unable  to  sleep, 
from  extreme  suffering.  This  bed  was  made  for  him, 
as  an  experiment,  after  trying  every  other  mode  of  re- 
lief in  vain.  It  was  placed  by  his  bedside,  and  the  wa- 
ter poured  in,  and  then  his  friends  raised  him  with  the 
greatest  care  in  a  blanket,  and  laid  him  on  it.  Instant- 
ly his  groans  ceased,  an  expression  of  relief  and  delight 
stole  over  his  countenance,  and  exhausted  nature  sunk 
instantly  into  the  most  peaceful  and  protracted  slumbers. 
And  ever  after,  he  was  reheved  from  his  former  suffer- 
ings. Every  hospital,  every  alms-house,  and  every  vil- 
lage should  have  the  means  of  obtaining  such  a  bed  for 
the  many  classes  of  sufferers  who  would  thus  find  relief, 
and  it  is  woman  who  should  interest  herself  to  secure 
such  a  comfort  for  the  sick,  who  especially  are  commend- 
ed to  her  benevolent  ministries. 


The  drawing,  AA,  is  the  outline  oidisick  couch,  such 
as  would  prove  a  great  comfort  in  every  family,  and  at 


FOR    TfiE    SIC  If.  215 

a  small  expense.  The  following  are  the  dimensions . — • 
Length  of  seat  inside,  six  feet  three  inches  ;  breadth, 
twenty-eight  inches  ;  height  of  the  seat  from  the  floor, 
thirteen  inches.  The  swing  frame,  dd,  is  three  feet  long, 
and  is  fastened  three  feet  from  the  head-board  by  a  very 
large  pin  or  screw.  The  seat  should  be  of  sacking,  and  a 
thick  hair  mattrass,  or  cushion  for  a  bed  or  cushion  and 
be  divided  into  two  parts,  where  the  swing  frame  is 
fastened.  The  frame  is  fastened  by  large  screws  at^'. 
The  supporter,  ee,  is  fastened  by  large  and  strong  hinges 
to  the  upper  part  of  the  frame,  and  is  moved  into  the  notch- 
es made  in  the  frame  of  the  seat.  When  in  the  notch 
«,  the  frame  is  very  low  ;  when  in  notch  6,  it  is  higher ; 
and  when  at  c,  it  is  as  high  as  is  needful  to  raise  the 
sick.  A  piece  of  sacking  is  to  be  fastened  over  the  frame, 
leaving  it  loose,  especially  at  the  top,  and  leaving  a  space 
at  0,  so  as  to  give  room  for  a  pillow,  and  so  that  the  head 
can  be  thrown  a  little  back.  The  frame  and  supporter 
must  be  thick  and  strong.  When  not  in  use  for  the 
sick,  the  frame  can  be  laid  down,  and  the  cushion  laid 
over  it,  and  then  with  a  frill  fastened  in  front,  it  makes 
a  good-looking  and  most  comfortable  chamber  couch,  or 
a  lolling  sofa  for  a  sitting-room. 

Such  a  couch  saves  much  laboi"  to  friends  and  nurses, 
because  it  is  so  low,  so  easily  moved,  and  the  nurse  can 
go  around  it  and  work  on  both  sides  so  easily,  while  the 
frame  raises  the  patient  with  great  ease  and  comfort.  It 
would  be  a  good  plan  to  engage  some  carpenter  or  cabi- 
net-maker, in  every  village,  to  provide  such  an  article  to 
to  rent  out,  and  probably  it  would  be  in  constant  de- 
mand. 

The  frame,  supporter,  hinges, .  and  screws,  must  be 
very  strong,  or  they  will  break. 

Fig.  6  represents  a  contrivance  for  securing  exercise 
in  the  open  air  for  invalids,  which  would  often  prove  con- 
venient and  agreeable. 

Such  an  article  can  be  easily  made  of  the  broken  toy 
of  a  child,  called  a  velocipede,  or  the  back  wheels  of  a 
child's  wagon.  Nothing  but  shafts  are  needed,  and  a 
common  rocking-chair,  with  a  foot-board  nailed  across 


216  AKTICLES   AND    CONVENIENCES    FOR   THE    SICK. 

Fig.  6. 


the  front  rocker,  on  which  to  rest  the  feet.  The  chair 
is  then  shpped  along  back  to  the  axle  of  the  wheels,  so  that 
the  shaft?,  when  raised,  are  under  the  seat,  and  lift  it  up. 
In  this  way  an  invahd  can  be  rolled  through  yards  and 
gardens  with  very  little  effort,  and  with  great  comfort 
and  relief  to  the  imprisoned  sufferer,  who  perhaps  can 
ride  in  no  other  way. 

There  is  no  way  of  relieving  the  weariness  and  nerv- 
ousness of  an  invahd  more  effectually  than  by  rubbing 
the  limbs  and  arms  with  the  bare  hand  of  a  healthful 
person. 

Those  w!io  believe  in  animal  magnetism  would  say, 
that  by  this  method,  the  well  person  imparts  a  portion 
of  the  magnetism  of  a  healthful  body  to  aid  in  restoring 
the  sick.  Those  who  do  not  believe  in  it,  will  say  that 
it  soothes  and  strengthens  the  nerves.  Either  way, 
it  is  a  ffreat  comfort  to  a  sufferinsf  invahd. 

It  is  unheal! hful  to  sleep  with  a  sick  person,  especial- 
ly one  who  has  lung  complaints,  as  the  breath  and  efflu- 
via from  the  skin  sometimes  communicate  disease,  even 
in  complaints  not  contagious.  Young  children  ihould 
not  sleep  with  the  aged,  because  their  healthful  fluids 
will  be  absorbed. 


THE    TROVIDING    AND    CARE    OF    FAMILY    STORES.        217 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 

THE    PROVIDING    AND    CARE    OF    FAMILY    STORES. 

The  art  of  keeping  a  good  table,  consists,  not  in  load- 
ing on  a  variety  at  each  meal,  but  rather  in  securing  a 
successive  variety,  a  table  neatly  and  tastefully  set,  and 
everything  that  is  on  it,  cooked  in  the  best  manner. 

There  are  some  families  who  provide  an  abundance 
of  the  most  expensive  and  choice  articles,  and  spare  no 
expenses  in  any  respect,  who  yet  have  everything  cook- 
ed in  such  a  miserable  way,  and  a  table  set  in  so  slov- 
enly a  manner,  that  a  person  accustomed  to  a  really 
good  table,  can  scarcely  taste  a  morsel  with  any  enjoy- 
ment. 

On  the  contrary,  there  are  many  tables  where  the 
closest  economy  is  practised,  and  yet  the  table-cloth  is  so 
white  and  smooth,  the  dishes,  silver,  glass,  and  other  ta- 
ble articles  so  bright,  and  arranged  with  such  propriety, 
the  bread  so  white,  light,  and  sweet,  the  butter  so  beau- 
tiful, and  every  other  article  of  food  so  well  cooked,  and 
so  neatly  and  tastefully  served,  that  everything  seems 
good,  and  pleases  both  the  eye  and  the  palate. 

A  habit  of  doing  everytliing  in  the  best  "manner^  is 
of  unspeakable  importance  to  a  housekeeper,  and  every 
woman  ought  to  aim  at  it,  however  great  the  difficulties 
she  may  have  to  meet.  If  a  young  housekeeper  com- 
mences with  a  determination  to  try  to  do  everything  in 
the  best  manner,  and  perseveres  in  the  effort,  meeting 
all  obstacles  with  patient  cheerfulness,  not  only  the  mor- 
al, but  the  intellectual  tone  of  her  mind  is  elevated  by 
the  attempt.  Although  she  may  meet  many  insupera- 
ble difficulties,  and  may  never  reach  the  standard  at 
which  she  aims,  the  simple  effort,  fersevered  in,  will 
have  an  elevating  influence  on  her  character,  while  at 
the  same  time  she  actually  will  reach  a  point  of  excel- 

19 


218  THE    PROVIDING    AND    CARE 

lence  far  ahead  of  those  who,  discouraged  by  many  ob- 
stacles, give  up  in  despair,  and  resoh^e  to  make  no  more 
efforts,  and  let  things  go  as  they  will.  The  grand  dis- 
tinction between  a  noble  and  an  ignoble  mind  is,  that 
one  tcill  control  circumstances  ;  the  other  jaelds,  and  al- 
lows circumstances  to  control  her. 

It  should  be  borne  in  mind,  that  the  constitution  of 
man  demands  a  variety  of  food,  and  that  it  is  just  as 
cheap  to  keep  on  hand  a  good  variety  of  materials  in  the 
store-closet,  so  as  to  make  a  frequent  change,  as  it  is  to 
buy  one  or  two  articles  at  once,  and  live  on  them  ex- 
clusively, till  every  person  is  tired  of  them,  and  then  buy 
two  or  three  more  of  another  kind. 

It  is  too  frequently  the  case,  that  families  fall  into 
a  very  limited  round  of  articles,  and  continue  the  same 
course  from  one  year  to  another,  when  there  is  a  much 
greater  variety  within  reach,  of  articles  which  are  just 
as  cheap  and  easily  obtained,  and  yet  remain  unthought 
of  and  untouched. 

A  thrifty  and  generous  provider,  will  see  that  her 
store-closet  is  furnished  with  such  a  variety  of  articles, 
that  successive  changes  can  be  made,  and  for  a  good  length 
of  time.  To  aid  in  this,  a  slight  sketch  of  a  well-provi- 
ded store-closet  will  be  given,  with  a  description  of  the 
manner  in  which  each  article  should  be  stored  and  kept, 
in  order  to  avoid  waste  and  injury.  To  this  will  be  add- 
ed, modes  of  securing  a  successive  variety^  within  the 
reach  of  all  in  moderate  circumstances. 

It  is  best  to  have  a  store-closet  open  from  a  kitchen, 
because  the  kitchen  fire  keeps  the  atmosphere  dry,  and 
this  prevents  the  articles  stored  from  moulding,  and  other 
injury  from  dampness.  Yet  it  must  not  be  kept  warm, 
as  there  are  many  articles  which  are  injured  by  warmth. 

A  cool  and  dry  place  is  indispensable  for  a  store-room, 
and  a  small  window  over  the  door,  and  another  opening 
out-doors,  is  a  great  advantage,  by  securing  coolness, 
and  a  circulation  of  fresh  air. 

Flour  should  be  kept  in  a  barrel,  with  a  flour  scoop 
to  dip  it,  a  sieve  to  sift  it,  and  a  pan  to  hold  the  sifted 
flour,  either  in  the  barrel,  or  close  at  hand.     The  barrel 


OF    FAMILY    STORES.  219 

should  have  a  light  cover  to  keep  out  mice  and  ver- 
min. It  is  best,  when  it  can  be  conveniently  done, 
to  find,  by  trial,  a  lot  of  first-rate  flour,  and  then  buy  a 
year's  supply.  But  this  should  not  be  done,  unless  there 
are  accommodations  for  keeping  it  dry  and  cool,  and 
protecting-  it  from  vermin. 

Unbolted  Jloui^  should  be  stored  in  barrels,  and  al- 
ways be  kept  on  hand,  as  regularly  as  fine  flour. 

Indian  meal  should  be  purchased  in  small  quanti- 
ties, say  fifteen  or  twenty  pounds  at  a  time,  and  be  kept 
in  a  covered  tub  or  keg.  When  new  and  sweet,  it 
should  not  be  scalded,  but  when  not  perfectly  fresh  and 
good  when  used,  it  is  improved  by  scalding.  It  must  be 
kept  very  cool  and  dry,  and  if  occasionally  stirred,  is  pre- 
served more  surely  from  growing  sour  or  musty. 

Rye  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities,  say  forty 
or  fifty  pounds  at  a  time,  and  be  kept  in  a  keg,  or  half 
barrel  with  a  cover. 

Buckwheat^  Rice^  Hominy^  and  Ground  Rice, 
must  be  purchased  in  small  quantities,  and  kept  in  cov- 
ered kegs,  or  tubs.  Several  of  these  articles  are  infest- 
ed Avith  small  black  insects,  and  examination  must  oc- 
casionally be  made  for  them. 

AiTotvroot,  Tapioca,  Sago,  Pearl  Barley,  Ameri- 
can Isinglass,  Macaroiii,  Ver^nacelli,  and  Oatmeal, 
are  all  articles  which  help  to  make  an  agreeable  variety, 
and  it  is  just  as  cheap  to  buy  a  small  quantity  of  each,  as 
it  is  to  buy  a  larger  quantity  of  tv/o  or  three  articles. 
Eight  or  ten  pounds  of  each  of  these  articles  of  food  can 
be  stored  in  covered  jars,  or  covered  wood  boxes,  and 
then  they  are  always  at  hand  to  help  make  a  variety. 
All  of  them  are  very  healthful  food,  and  help  to  form 
many  delightful  dishes  for  desserts.  Some  of  the  most 
healthful  puddings  are  those  made  of  rice,  tapioca, 
sago,  and  macaroni,  while  isinglass,  or  American  gela- 
tine, form  elegant  articles  for  desserts,  and  is  also  excel- 
lent for  the  sick. 

Sugars  should  not  be  bought  by  the  barrel,  as  the 
brown  is  apt  to  turn  to  molasses,  and  run  out  on  to  the 
floor.     It  is  best  to  keep  four  qualities  of  sugar  on  hand. 


220  THE    PROVIDING    AND    CARE 

Refined  loaf  for  tea,  crushed  sugar  for  the  nicest  pre- 
serves and  to  use  witli  fruit,  nice  brown  sugar  for  coffee, 
and  common  brown  for  cooking  and  more  common  use. 
The  loaf  can  be  stored  in  the  papers,  on  a  shelf.  The 
others  should  be  kept  in  close  covered  kegs,  or  covered 
wooden  articles  made  for  the  purpose. 

Butter  must  be  kept  in  the  dryest  and  coldest  place 
you  can  find,  in  vessels  of  either  stone,  earthen,  or  wood, 
and  never  in  tin. 

Lard  and  Dripjy'uigs  must  be  kept  in  a  dry.  cold 
place,  and  should  not  be  salted.  Usually  the  cellar  is 
the  best  place  for  them.  Earthen,  or  stone  jars  are  the 
best  to  store  them  in. 

Salt  must  be  kept  in  the  dryest  place  that  can  be 
found.  Rock  salt  is  the  best  for  table  salt.  It  should 
be  washed,  dried,  pounded,  sifted,  and  stored  in  a  glass 
jar,  and  covered  close.  It  is  common  to  find  it  growing 
damp  in  the  salt  stands  for  the  table.  It  should  then 
be  set  by  the  fire  to  dry,  and  afterwards  be  reduced  to 
fine  powder  again.  Nothing  is  more  disagreeable  than 
coarse  or  damp  salt  on  a  table. 

Vinegar  is  best  made  of  wine,  or  cider.  Buy  a  keg, 
or  half  barrel  of  it,  and  set  it  in  the  cellar,  and  then  keep 
a  supply  for  the  castors  in  a  junk  bottle  in  the  kitchen. 
If  too  strong,  it  eats  the  pickles. 

Pickles  never  must  be  kept  in  glazed  ware,  as  the 
vinegar  forms  a  poisonous  compound  with  the  glazing. 

Oil  must  be  kept  in  the  cellar.  Winter  strained 
must  be  got  in  cold  weather,  as  the  summer  strained 
will  not  burn  except  in  warm  weather.  The  best  of 
lard  oil  is  preferred  to  every  other  by  those  who  use  it. 
Some  lard  oil  is  very  poor. 

Molasses^  if  bought  by  the  barrel,  or  half  barrel, 
should  be  kept  in  the  cellar.  Sugar  bakers'  is  best 
for  the  table,  and  Porto  Rico  for  cooking.  If  bought  in 
small  quantities,  it  should  be  kept  in  a  demijohn.  No 
vessel  should  be  corked  or  bunged,  if  filled  with  molasses, 
as  it  will  swell,  and  burst  the  vessel,  or  run  over. 

Hard  Soap  should  be  bought  by  large  quantity,  and 
laid  to  harden  on   a  shelf,  in   a  very  dry  place.     It  is 


OF    FAMILY    STORES.  221 

much  more  economical  to  buy  hard,  than  soft  soap,  as 
those  who  use  soft  soap  are  very  apt  to  waste  it  in  using 
it,  as  they  cannot  do  with  hard  soap. 

Starch  it  is  best  to  buy  by  a  large  quantity.  It  comes 
very  nicely  put  up  in  papers,  a  pound  or  two  in  each 
paper,  and  packed  in  a  box.  Starch,  which  by  the  single 
pound  is  five  cents  a  pound,  if  bought  by  the  box,  is  only 
three  cents  a  pound,  and  this  makes  a  good  deal  of  dif- 
ference, in  a  large  family,  by  the  year.  The  high-priced 
starch  is  cheapest  in  the  end. 

Indigo  is  not  always  good.  When  a  good  lot  is 
found  by  trial,  it  is  best  to  get  enough  for  a  year  or  two, 
and  store  it  in  a  tight  tin  box. 

Coffee  it  is  best  to  buy  by  the  bag,  as  it  improves  by- 
keeping.  Let  it  hang  in  the  bag,  in  a  dry  place,  and  it 
loses  its  rank  smell  and  taste. 

Tea,  if  bought  by  the  box,  is  about  five  cents  a  pound 
cheaper  than  by  small  quantities.  If  w^ell  put  up  in  box- 
es hned  with  lead,  it  keeps  perfectly.  But  put  up  in 
paper,  it  soon  loses  its  flavor.  It  therefore  should,  if  in 
small  quantities,  be  put  in  glass,  or  tin,  and  shut  tight. 
Saleratus  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities,  then 
powdered,  sifted,  and  kept  tight  corked  in  a  large  mouth 
glass  bottle. 

It  grows  damp  if  exposed  to  the  air,  and  then  cannot 
be  used  properly. 

Raisins  should  not  be  bought  in  large  quantities,  as 
they  are  injured  by  time.  It  is  best  to  buy  the  small 
boxes. 

Currants  for  cake  should  be  prepared  as  directed  for 
cake,  and  set  by  for  use  in  a  jar. 

Lemon  and  Orange  Peel  should  be  dried,  pounded, 
and  set  up  in  corked  glass  jars. 

Nutmegs  Cin7ia?non,  Cloves,  Mace,  and  Allspice, 
should  be  pounded  fine,  and  corked  tight  in  small  glass 
bottles  with  mouths  large  enough  for  a  junk  bottle  cork, 
and  then  put  in  a  tight  tin  box,  made  for  the  purpose. 
Or  they  can  be  put  in  small  tin  boxes  with  tight  covers. 
Essences  are  as  good  as  spices. 

tSweet  Herbs  should  be  dried,  and  the  stalks  thrown 

19* 


222        THE    PROVIDING    AND    CARE    OF    FAMILY    STORES. 

away,  and  the  rest  be  kept  in  corked  large  mouth  bottles, 
or  small  tin  boxes. 

Cream  Tartar^  Citric  and  Tartaric  Acids,  Bicar- 
bonate of  Soda^  and  Esse7ices,  should  be  kept  in  cork- 
ed glass  jars.  Sal  volatile  must  be  kept  in  a  large-mouth 
bottle,  with  a  ground  glass  stopper  to  make  it  air-tight. 
Use  cold  water  in  dissolving  it.     It  must  be  powdered. 

Preserves  and  Jellies  should  be  kept  in  glass  or  stone, 
in  a  cool,  dry  place,  well  sealed,  or  tied  with  bladder  cov- 
ers. If  properly  made,  and  thus  put  up,  they  never  will 
ferment.  If  it  is  difficult  to  find  a  cool,  dry  place,  pack 
the  jars  in  a  box,  and  fill  the  interstices  with  sand,  very 
thoroughly  dried.  It  is  best  to  put  jellies  in  tumblers, 
or  small  glass  jars,  so  as  to  open  only  a  small  quantity 
at  a  time. 

The  most  easy  way  of  keeping  Hams  perfectly  is  to 
wrap  and  tie  them  in  paper,  and  pack  them  in  boxes  or 
barrels  with  ashes.  The  ashes  must  fill  all  interstices, 
but  must  not  touch  the  hams,  as  it  absorbs  the  fat.  It 
is  much  less  labor,  and  quite  as  certain  a  mode  as  the 
one  previously  mentioned.  It  keeps  them  sweet,  and 
protects  from  all  kinds  of  insects. 

After  smoked  beef,  or  ham,  are  cut,  hang  them  in  a 
coarse  linen  bag  in  the  cellar,  and  tie  it  up  to  keep  out 
flies. 

Keep  Cheese  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  after  it  is  cr.t, 
wrap  it  in  a  linen  cloth,  and  keep  it  in  a  tight  tin  box. 

Keep  Bread  in  a  tin  covered  box,  and  it  will  keep 
fresh  and  good  longer  than  if  left  exposed  to  the  air. 

Cake  also  should  be  kept  in  a  tight  tin  box.  Tin 
boxes  made  with  covers  like  trunks,  with  handles  at  the 
ends,  are  best  for  bread  and  cake. 

Smoked  herring  keep  in  the  cellar. 

Codfish  is  improved  by  changing  it,  once  in  a  while, 
back  and  forth  from  garret  to  cellar.  Some  dislike  to 
have  it  in  the  house  anywhere. 

All  salted  provision  must  be  watched,  and  kept  un- 
der the  brine.  When  the  brine  looks  bloody,  or  smells 
badly,  it  must  be  scalded,  and  more  salt  put  to  it,  and 
poured  over  the  meat. 


A   SUCCESSIVE    VARIETY    OF    FOOD.  223 

Salt  fish  barrels  must  not  be  kept  near  other  food,  as 
they  impart  a  fishy  smell  and  taste  to  it. 

Cabbages  and  Turnips  in  the  cellar  often  impart 
a  bad  smell  to  a  house.  All  decayed  vegetable  matter 
should  be  kept  out  of  a  cellar,  as  it  creates  a  miasma, 
that  sometimes  causes  the  most  fatal  diseases.  There- 
fore, always  take  care  of  the  vegetable  bins,  and  have  all 
that  are  decaying  removed. 

A  cellar  should  be  whitewashed  often,  to  keep  it  sweet 
and  clean. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

SUGGESTIONS     IN     KEFERENCE     TO     PROVIDING     A     SUCCESSIVE 
VARIETY    OF    FOOD. 

By  a  little  skill  and  calculation,  a  housekeeper  may 
contrive  to  keep  a  constant  change  of  agreeable  varie- 
ties on  her  table,  and  that,  too,  without  violating  the 
rules  either  of  health  or  economy.  Some  suggestions 
will  be  offered  to  aid  in  this  object. 

In  the  first  place,  much  can  be  effected  by  keeping 
on  hand  a  good  supply  of  the  various  bread-stuffs. 
Good  raised  bread,  of  fine  flour,  must  be  the  grand 
staple,  but  this  may,  every  day,  be  accompanied  with 
varieties  of  bread  made  of  unbolted  flour,  or  rye  and  In- 
dian, or  Indian  alone,  or  potato  and  apple  bread,  or 
rice  bread,  or  the  various  biscuits  and  rusk.  It  will  be 
found  that  these  are  all  more  acceptable,  if  there  are  oc- 
casional changes,  than  if  any  one  of  them  is  continued 
a  long  time. 

All  the  dough  of  these  different  kinds  of  bread,  when 
light,  can,  with  very  Httle  trouble,  be  made  into  drop 
cakes,  or  griddle  cakes  for  breakfast,  or  tea,  by  adding 
some  milk  and  eggs,  and  in  some  cases  a  Uttle  melted 
lard. 


224  SUGGESTIONS  IN  REFERENCE  TO 

Yery  fine  common  cake  is  also  easily  made,  at  eveiy 
baking",  by  taking  some  of  the  dough  of  bread  and 
working  in  sugar,  butter,  and  eggs,  by  the  receipt  given 
for  Bread  Cake  and  Child's  Feather  Cake.  These  can 
be  made  more  or  less  sweet  and  rich  at  pleasure. 

In  the  next  place,  a  good  supply  oi fruit  in  the  gar- 
den, and  stored  in  the  cellar,  enables  a  housekeeper  to 
keep  up  a  constant  variety.  The  directions  given  under 
the  head  of  Modes  of  Preparing  Ajjples  for  the  Tea 
Tahle^  Avill  be  found  very  useful  for  this  purpose,  while 
those  for  preparing  Rice  and  Dry  Bread  are  equally 
serviceable  in  helping  out  a  cheap  and  convenient 
variety.  There  are  some  cheap  dishes  at  the  end  also, 
which  are  very  good,  and  easily  made. 

The  directions  for  preparing  Hashes,  also,  are  rec- 
ommended as  a  mode  of  economizing,  that  is  very  ac- 
ceptable when  properly  done.  The  little  relishes  ob- 
tained in  summer  from  the  garden,  are  very  service- 
able in  securing  varieties.  Among  these  may  be  men- 
tioned cucumbers,  radishes,  cabbage  sprouts,  Jerusalem 
artichokes,  and  tomatoes,  all  of  which  are  very  fine 
eaten  with  salt  and  vinegar. 

Mush,  hominy,  tapioca,  and  rice  cooked,  and  then, 
when  cold,  fried  on  a  griddle,  are  great  favorites.  If 
salt  pork  rinds  are  used  to  grease  the  griddle,  there  will 
be  so  little  fat  used,  that  no  injury  to  the  most  dehcate 
stomachs  can  result  from  this  mode  of  cooking. 

In  winter,  the  breakfast-table  and  tea-table  can  be 
supplied  by  a  most  inviting  variety  of  muffins,  griddle 
cakes,  drop  cakes,  and  waffles  made  of  rice,  corn  meal, 
and  unbolted  flour,  all  of  which  are  very  healthful  and 
very  agreeable  to  the  palate. 

One  mode  of  securing  a  good  variety,  in  those  months 
in  spring  when  fruits  and  vegetables  fail,  is  by  a 
wise  providence  in  drying  and  preserving  fruits  and 
vegetables.  The  following  directions  will  aid  in  this 
particular. 

Directions  for  Preserving  Fruits  and  Vegetables, 

Blackberries,     whortleberries,     currants,    raspberries, 


PROVIDING    A    SUCCESSIVE    VARIETY    OF    FOOD.         225 

peaches,  plums,  apples,  pears,  and  quinces,  can  all  be 
preserved  by  drying  them  in  the  sun,  and  then  storing 
them  in  bags  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Green  currants,  and  green  gooseberries,  can  be  pre- 
served thus.  Gather  them  when  perfectly  dry,  put 
them  into  very  dry  junk  bottles,  free  from  stems  and 
eyes,  set  the  bottles  uncorked  into  a  kettle  of  cold  water, 
and  then  make  the  water  boil.  Then  cork  the  bottles  (the 
fruit  should  come  up  to  the  cork),  and  seal  them  with 
bee's  wax  and  rosin.  Store  them  in  a  dry,  cool  place, 
where  they  will  not  freeze.  Everything  depends  on 
success  in  excluding  air  and  water.  Putting  them  in 
boxes,  and  fiUing  the  interstices  wdth  dry  sand,  is  the 
surest  mode  of  storing  the  bottles. 

There  is  a  receipt  for  Preserving  Fruit  in  Water, 
that  has  found  its  way  into  many  receipt  books,  which 
seems  to  the  writer  to  be  a  dangerous  and  useless  one, 
and  never  should  be  tried. 

It  directs  that  fruit  be  put  in  bottles,  then  \vater  pour- 
ed in,  and  then  the  bottles  corked  tight^  and  the  cork 
tied.  Then  the  bottles  are  to  be  set  in  a  kettle  of  wa- 
ter, which  is  to  be  heated  till  it  boils.  Of  course  this 
must  burst  the  bottles,  or  throw  out  the  corks. 

It  is  probable  that  the  design  of  some  plan  of  this  sort 
was  to  exclude  all  air  from  the  fruit.  This  could  be 
done  by  setting  the  bottles  filled  Avith  fruit  and  water, 
uncorked,  in  a  kettle  of  water,  and  making  the  water 
boil.  Then  cork  the  bottles  and  seal  them,  and  the  Ava- 
ter  will  remain,  but  all  air  will  be  excluded.  The  wri- 
ter never  has  seen  a  person  w4io  has  tried  this  method, 
and  perhaps  it  may  be  one  in  which  fruit  can  be  pre- 
served. 

Peach  Leather  is  much  relished  by  invalids,  and  is 
prepared  thus.  Squeeze  out  the  pulp  of  very  ripe 
peaches,  and  spread  it  half  an  inch  thick  on  plates  or 
shingles,  and  let  it  dry  till  quite  hard  and  tough.  Then 
roll  it  up  in  layers,  with  clean  paper  between. 

Tomato  Leather  can  be  made  in  the  same  way. 
But  the  following  is  the  best  mode  of  preserving  toma- 
toes.   Pour  boiling  w^ater  on  to  the  ripe  tomatoes,  and  peel 


226  A    SUCCESSIVE    VARIETY    OF    POOD. 

them.  Boil  them  till  reduced  to  half  the  original  quan- 
tity, throwing  in.  at  first,  a  tea-cup  of  sugar  and  a  large 
spoonful  of  salt  for  every  gallon.  When  reduced  to  one 
half  the  quantity,  spread  it  on  flat  dishes  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  dry  it  eight  or  ten  days  in  the  sun,  and  air. 
Then  put  it  in  layers,  with  paper  between.  In  pre- 
paring it  for  table,  stew  it  slowly  in  a  good  deal  of 
water,  adding  bread  crumbs  and  seasoning. 

Some  persons  dry  them  in  a  brick  oven  instead  of  the 
sun.  A  quicker,  but  not  so  nice  a  way,  is  simply  to  cut 
them  in  two  without  peeling,  and  dry  them  in  the  oven. 

Toinato  Figs  are  prepared  thus : — Scald  and  peel 
them,  and  then  boil  them  in  one-third  the  weight  of  su- 
gar, till  they  are  penetrated  by  it.  Then  flatten  and 
dry  them  in  the  sun,  occasionally  turning  them  and 
sprinkling  with  sugar.  When  dr}'^,  pack  them  in  layers, 
with  sugar  sprinkled  between. 

Green  Coi^n  can  be  preserved  by  simply  turning 
back  the  husk,  all  but  the  last  thin  layer,  and  then 
hanging  it  in  the  sun,  or  a  very  warm  room.  When  it 
is  to  be  used,  boil  it  till  soft,  and  then  cut  it  off  the  cob 
and  mix  it  with  butter,  and  add,  if  you  like,  dried  Lima 
beans  cooked  soft,  in  another  vessel.  The  summer  sweet 
corn  is  the  proper  kind  to  dry.  Lima  beans  can  be 
dried  in  the  sun  when  young  and  tender.  They  are 
good  to  bake,  when  dried  after  they  are  ripe. 

Another  mode  is  to  parboil  sweet  corn,  cut  it  from  the 
cobs,  and  dry  it  in  the  sun.  Then  store  it  in  a  dry,  cool 
place,  in  a  bag. 

Another  way  is  to  take  off  all  the  husks  but  the  thin 
one  next  the  corn  ;  tie  this  o\fer  the  corn  tight,  and  pack 
it  in  salt. 

Try  each  of  these  ways,  and  make  succotash  with 
dried  Lima  beans,  adding  a  little  cream  to  the  broth.  If 
done  right,  it  is  excellent  in  winter.  In  cutting  corn 
from  cobs,  in  all  cases  take  care  not  to  cut  off  any  cob, 
as  it  gives  a  bad  taste. 

Peas,  also,  are  good  to  dry,  and  make  a  fine  dish 
thus.  Take  six  or  eight  pounds  of  corned  beef,  put  it 
in  a  large  pot  and  fill  it  with  water,  and  put  in  two  quarts 


ON    J3KEAD    MAKIJXG.  227 

of  dried  peas.  Let  them  boil  till  soft,  and  then  add  the 
sweet  herb  seasoning,  or  take  it  up  without  any  other 
seasoning  than  a  little  pepper  and  the  salt  of  the  meat. 

Beef,  cooked  thus,  is  excellent  when  cold,  and  the 
pea  soup,  thus  made,  is  highly  reHshed.  No  dish  is 
cheaper,  or  more  easily  prepared. 

Pumpkins  and  squashes  can  be  peeled  and  cut  in 
strips  and  dried  in  the  sun. 

The  stalks  of  rhubarb  or  the  pie  plant  can  be  shv- 
ered  fine  and  dried  in  the  sun  for  winter  use. 

A  housekeeper  Avho  will  take  pains  to  have  these 
things  done  in  the  proper  season,  and  well  stored,  will 
always  keep  an  inviting  table,  in  those  months  when 
others  so  much  complain  that  they  can  find  no  variety. 

It  is  a  good  plan  for  a  housekeeper  the  first  day,  or 
week  of  every  month,  to  make  a  calculation  of  her  bill 
of  fare  for  that  month,  going  over  such  a  receipt-book 
as  tliis,  and  ascertaining  how  many  of  the  varieties  of- 
fered she  can  secure.  At  the  same  time  she  can  be 
laying  in  stores  of  articles  for  future  use.  System  in 
this  matter  is  of  essential  service. 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

ON    BREAD    MAKING. 

Few  liousekeepers  are  aware  of  their  responsibility 
in  reference  to  the  bread  furnished  for  their  family.  As 
this  is  the  principal  article  of  food,  there  is  no  one  thing 
on  which  the  health  of  a  family,  especially  of  young 
children,  is  more  dependant. 

Baker's  bread  is  often  made  of  musty,  sour,  or  other 
bad  flour,  which  is  made  to  look  light,  and  the  bad 
taste  removed  by  unhealthy  drugs.  Of  course,  to  the 
evil  of  unhealthy  flour,  is  added  unhealthy  drugs,  and 
there  is  no  mode  of  discovering  the  imposition. 


228  ON    BREAD    MAKING. 

The  only  safe  mode  is,  to  have  all  bread  made  in  the 
family,  and  to  take  all  needful  care  that  it  shair  uni- 
formly be  good. 

Bread  made  of  salt^  or  Tnilk  risings^  is  good  only  the 
first  day,  and  to  those  accustomed  to  good  yeast  bread, 
it  is  offensive  to  the  smell,  and  not  acceptable  to  the 
palate. 

Bread  made  of  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk  and  an  alkali, 
or  made  by  mixing  cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  and  an 
alkali  in  the  wetting,  is  good  as  an  occasional  resort,  in 
emergencies,  when  good  yeast  cannot  be  preserved,  or 
when  there  is  not  time  to  wait  for  yeast  rising. 

But,  as  the  ordinary  bread  for  continued  daily  use, 
it  is  expensive,  and  not  healthful  or  good  like  yeast 
bread.  Some  persons  suffer  from  sore  mouths  and  dis- 
ordered stomachs,  in  consequence  of  eating  it.  Some- 
times this  is  owing  to  the  imperfect  mixture  of  the  ma- 
terials. When  the  cream  tartar  is  not  very  thorough- 
ly mixed  with  the  flour,  or  when  the  alkali  is  not  prop- 
erly dissolved  and  thoroughly  mixed,  or  when  there  is 
too  much  of  either,  the  skin  of  the  mouth  and  stomach 
are  affected  by  the  bread. 

The  only  kind  of  bread  which  is  always  good  for  the 
health,  and  always  acceptable  to  every  palate,  is  sweet, 
well-raised,  home-made  yeast  bread.  The  best  kind 
of  home-made  yeast  bread  is  an  article  of  luxury  to  be 
found  upon  very  few  tables,  and  those  who  enjoy  this 
comfort,  know  that  there  is  no  food  upon  earth,  which 
is  so  good,  or  the  loss  of  which  is  so  much  regretted. 

In  order  to  secure  such  bread,  these  threa  things  are 
indispensable,  viz. :  good  flour ^  good  yeasty  and  good 
care. 

In  order  to  secure  good  flour,  it  is  best  to  try  it  by 
tasting  itj  and  you  ordinarily  can  detect  sourness  or 
must.  Buy  a  small  quantity,  and  then,  if  it  is  found  to 
be  very  superior,  and  it  can  be  done  conveniently,  it  is 
well  to  provide  enough  of  it  to  last  till  the  next  crop  of 
wheat  affords  new  flour,  when  another  supply  for  a 
year  can  be  secured.  Flour  stored  in  barrels  needs  no 
other  care  than  putting  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  where  it 


0:i    BREAD    BIAKING.  229 

is  well  protected  from  rats  and  cockroaches.  A  tight 
covered  box  made  of  thick  plank,  large  enough  to  hold 
several  barrels,  with  shelves  to  hold  smaller  supplies  of 
other  bread-stuffs,  with  a  door  in  one  side  shutting  very 
tight,  is  a  perfect  protection  from  rats,  mice,  and  cock 
roaches. 

Good  flour  has  a  yellowish  tinge,  and  when  pressed 
tight  in  the  hand,  retains  the  creases  of  the  skin  im- 
pressed on  it.  Poor  flour  is  not  thus  adhesive ;  it  can 
be  blown  about  readily,  and  sometimes  has  a  dingy 
look,  as  if  ashes  were  mixed  with  it. 

When  good  flour  is  found,  notice  the  brandy  and 
seek  the  same  next  time.  It  is  sometimes  the  case, 
however,  that  bad  flour  is  passed  off,  by  putting  on  the 
brands  of  persons  who  have  gained  a  name  as  makers 
of  superior  flour.  The  only  sure  way  is  to  try  a  small 
sample,  and  then  get  a  larger  supply,  if  it  is  good,  from 
the  same  stock. 

Grown  wheat  makes  dough  that  is  runny ^  and  can- 
not be  well  moulded,  or  make  good  bread.  This  can 
be  discovered  only  by  trial.  Smutty  wheat  makes 
flour  that  is  very  unhealthful. 

Flour  always  should  be  sifted  before  using  it,  to  re- 
store the  lightness  destroyed  by  packing,  as  well  as  to 
remove  impurities.  Bread  is  also  more  sure  to  be  light, 
if  the  flour  is  heated  before  wetting.  This  can  be  done, 
by  setting  the  kneading  trough  aslant  before  the  fire, 
stirring  it  a  little  as  it  is  warming.  When  bread  proves  to 
be  bad,  examine  the  yeast,  and  see  also  whether  the  oven 
bakes  properly.  If  both  are  as  they  should  be,  and  the 
bread  is  still  poor,  then  the  fault  is  in  the  flour,  and  it 
should  be  sent  back  and  another  supply  obtained. 
And  in  buying  flour,  this  liberty  should  always  be  se- 
cured, even  if  a  higher  price  is  the  condition.  No  econ- 
omy is  so  false  as  to  try  to  save  by  means  of  bad  bread. 
Medicine  and  doctors'  bills  soon  show  the  folly  of  it. 

Good  yeast  is  as  indispensable  to  good  bread  as 
good  flour.  Of  the  receipts  given  in  this  book,  the  one 
which  will  keep  a  month  is  the  best.     The  one  which 

20 


230  ON    BREAD    MAKING. 

is  made  with  fewer  materials  will  not  keep  so  well,  but 
is  more  easily  made. 

In  hot  weather,  when  it  is  difficult  to  keep  yeast,  the 
hard  yeast  will  be  a  great  convenience.  Some  house- 
keepers who  have  tried  both,  prefer  the  flour  hard  yeast 
to  that  which  is  made  with  Indian  meal,  as  it  does  not 
turn  sour,  as  Indian  does.  Home-brewed  yeast  must 
be  used  for  hard  yeast,  and  not  distillery  or  brewer's. 
Yeast,  when  it  is  good,  is  all  in  a  foam,  or  else  has  large 
heads  on  the  surface,  and  its  smell  is  brisk  and  pun- 
gent, but  not  sour.  When  poor,  it  sometimes  smells  sour, 
sometimes  looks  watery,  and  the  sediment  sinks  to  the 
bottom,  and  it  has  no  froth  or  beads.  Sometimes, 
when  yeast  does  not  look  very  good,  it  is  improved  by 
adding  a  tea-cup,  or  so,  of  flour,  and  two  or  three  great 
spoonfuls  of  molasses,  and  setting  it  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise.  Yeast  must  be  kept  in  stone,  or  glass,  with  a 
tight  cork,  and  the  thing  in  which  it  is  kept  should 
often  be  scalded,  and  then  warm  water  with  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus  be  put  in  it,  to  stand  a  while. 
Then  rinse  it  with  cold  water.  Sour  yeast  cannot  be 
made  good  by  saleratus. 

The  last  grand  essential  to  good  bread  is  good  care. 
Unless  the  cook  can  be  fully  trusted,  the  mistress  of  a 
family  must  take  this  care  upon  herself.  She  must, 
if  needful,  stand  by  and  see  that  the  bread  is  wet  right, 
that  the  yeast  is  good,  that  the  bread  is  put  where  it  is 
warm  enough,  that  it  does  not  rise  too  long,  so  as  to 
lose  its  sweetness  (which  is  often  the  case  before  it  be- 
gins to  turn  sour),  that  it  is  moulded  aright,  that  the 
oven  is  at  the  right  heat,  and  that  it  is  taken  out  at  the 
right  time,  and  then  that  it  is  put  in  the  right  place, 
and  not  set  flat  on  to  a  greasy  table,  or  painted  shelf, 
to  imbibe  a  bad  taste. 

Perhaps  it  may  be  thought  that  all  this  is  a  great 
drudgery,  but  it  is  worse  drudgery  to  have  sickly  chil- 
dren, and  a  peevish  husband,  made  so  by  having  all  the 
nerves  of  their  stomachs  rasped  with  sour,  or  heavy  bread. 
A  woman  should  be  ashamed  to  have  poor  bread,  far 
more  so,  than  to  speak  bad  grammar,  or  to  have  a  dress 


ON    BREAD    MAKING.  231 

out  of  the  fashion.  It  is  true,  that,  by  accident,  the 
best  of  housekeepers  will  now  and  then  have  poor  bread, 
but  then  it  is  an  accident,  and  one  that  rarely  happens. 
When  it  is  very  frequently  the  case  that  a  housekeeper 
has  poor  bread,  she  may  set  herself  down  as  a  slack 
haked  and  negligent  housekeeper. 

It  is  very  desirable  that  every  family  should  have  a 
constant  supply  of  bread  made  of  unbolted  flour,  or  of 
rye  and  Indian.  Most  persons  like  to  eat  of  it  occasion- 
ally, and  it  tends  to  promote  health.  Warm  cakes  also, 
made  of  unbolted  flour,  are  very  excellent,  and  ser- 
viceable to  health.  The  receipts  for  these  articles 
in  this  work  are  first-rate.  Warm  raised  bread  cakes, 
of  fine  wheat,  are  not  so  healthy  for  breakfast,  as 
those  made  of  unbolted  flour,  Indian  meal,  rice,  or 
tapioca.  Griddle  cakes,  muffins,  and  waflles,  made 
of  these  last  articles,  are  more  healthful  than  those  made 
of  fine  wheat.  If  eaten  at  the  right  temperature  (not 
above  blood  heat),  and  with  but  little  butter,  they  are 
safe  and  harmless.  Unbolted  flour  is  good  in  almost 
any  receipt  in  which  fine  floar  is  to  be  used,  and  many 
very  much  prefer  it  for  all  kinds  of  warm  cakes.  Brown 
bread,  when  light,  makes  good  drop  cakes,  or  good  grid- 
dle cakes,  by  adding  a  little  water  or  milk,  and  some 
eggs,  and  in  some- cases,  a  spoonful  or  two  of  molasses. 
Many  cases  are  on  record,  of  great  changes  for  the  bet- 
ter, in  the  health  of  individuals  and  communities,  by 
the  habitual  use  of  food  made  of  unbolted  flour. 

The  style  in  which  bread  is  prepared  for  the  table,  is 
a  matter  to  be  carefully  attended  to.  In  moulding  up 
loaves  and  small  cakes,  do  not  leave  lumps  and  loose 
flour  adhering  to  the  outside,  but  work  them  in  thorough- 
ly, so  as  to  have  the  cake  look  fair  and  smooth.  Wip.e 
off  flour  from  the  outside  before  carrying  to  the  table. 
Buttered  pans  are  better  than  floured  ones,  because  the 
cakes  cleave  oft"  cleaner.  When  soda  and  saleratus  are 
used,  work  it  in  thoroughly,  or  you  will  have  those  yel- 
low spots  and  streaks,  which  look  so  disgusting,  and  show 
a  slovenly  negligence. 

In  the  receipts  for  making  bread,  no  particular  direc- 


232  ON    BREAD   MAKING. 

tion  is  given  in  regard  to  the  time  bread  should  stand 
after  it  is  moulded  and  put  in  pans,  because  here  is  the 
point  where  observation  and  discretion  are  so  indispensa- 
ble, and  rules  are  unavailing  without.  In  hot  weather, 
when  the  yeast  is  very  good,  and  the  bread  very  hght,  it 
must  not  stand  over  fifteen  minutes  after  it  is  moulded, 
before  setting  in.  If  it  is  cold  weather,  and  the  yeast  is 
less  active,  or  the  bread  not  perfectly  raised,  it  may  some- 
times stand  an  hour  in  the  pans  without  injury. 

When  it  is  risen  in  the  pans  so  as  to  crack,  it  is  ready 
for  the  oven,  and  if  it  stands  after  this  it  loses  sweetness, 
and  then  turns  sour.  A  great  deal  of  bread  is  spoiled  by 
standing  too  long  after  it  is  put  in  the  pans.  The  only 
way  to  prevent  this  is  for  the  housekeeper  to  ascertain, 
by  experiment,  how  soon  her  yeast  ordinarily  raises 
bread  to  the  right  point,  so  as  to  make  that  full  lightness 
which  does  not  destroy  the  sweetness  of  the  flour,  and 
yet  is  complete.  When  this  is  secured,  the  bread  should 
not  stand  more  than  fifteen  minutes  after  moulding,  un- 
less it  is  very  cold  weather.  Those  who  trust  entirely 
to  raising  the  bread  after  it  is  put  into  the  pans,  are  much 
less  likely  to  have  the  best  kind  of  bread,  and  far  more 
risk  is  run  than  in  the  way  here  given. 

In  summer,  if  the  milk  is  not  new,  it  should  be  scald- 
ed, or  the  bread  will  turn  sour  by  keeping.  Bread  is 
never  as  good  which  has  turned  sour,  and  been  sweeten- 
ed with  saleratus,  as  if  it  had  risen  only  just  enough.  In 
using  saleratus,  take  a  teaspoonful  to  each  quart  of  wet- 
ting used  ;  or,  which  is  the  same  thing,  a  teaspoonful  to 
four  quarts  of  flour. 

The  proportion  of  yeast  is  about  a  tablespoonful  of 
brewer's  or  distiller's  yeast  for  every  quart  of  wetting,  or 
twice  as  much  home-brewed  yeast.  In  warm  w^eather, 
pour  the  wetting  boiling  hot  into  the  flour,  and  the  bread 
keeps  better.  But  be  careful  not  to  kill  the  yeast  by  put- 
ting it  in  before  the  mixture  is  suflftciently  cooled.  About 
blond  loarmth  is  the  right  temperature. 

The  eastern  brown  bread  rises  faster  than  the  wheat 
bread,  and  in  hot  weather  cannot  be  made  over  night ; 


ON    BREAD   MAKING.  233 

and  if  made  with  other  bread,  must  be  set  to  rise  in  a 
cool  place. 

It  is  always  best  to  keep  bread  several  hours  before 
eating-,  until  it  can  be  cut  without  making  it  clammy. 
Biscuits,  and  small  cakes  of  bread,  are  best  baked  in  the 
morning  to  use  for  tea,  and  in  the  evening  for  breakfast. 
When  cake  is  to  be  made  of  bread  dough,  it  ought  to  be 
wet  up  with  milk. 

Most  of  the  rules  which  have  been  given  in  other 
books  for  making  cream  tartar  bread  and  cakes  allow 
too  much  of  the  acid  and  alkah,  and  this  affects  the 
health. 

Three  pints  of  flour  to  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and 
two  of  cream  tartar  is  about  right.  Domestics  are  often 
careless  in  getting  right  proportions,  and  thus  health  is 
injured.  It  is  probable  that  this  can  be  remedied  by  get- 
ting an  apothecary  to  combine  the  two  poAvders  in  the 
right  proportions  when  very  dry^  and  keeping  them  in 
a  glass  bottle,  with  a  ground  glass  stopper,  so  as  to  be 
air-tight.  The  dampness  of  the  air  would  make  them 
combine,  and  neutrahze  them.  There  are  yeast  pow- 
ders for  sale  of  this  kind.  The  way  to  use  them  is 
first  to  mix  them  thoroughly  in  the  flour,  and  then  put 
in  the  wetting. 

In  regard  to  yeast,  the  distillery  rises  fastest,  the  brew- 
er's nearly  as  fast,  and  the  home-brewed  slowest  of  all. 
Sometimes  distillery  yeast  will  raise  bread  in  an  hour. 
Every  housekeeper  must  learn  by  trial  the  time  neces- 
sary to  raise  bread,  and  by  this  calculate  the  time  to  put 
her  oven  heating. 

For  large  loaves  of  bread  or  cake,  the  oven  must  be 
heated  with  hard  wood,  so  as  to  soak  thoroughly.  For 
smaller  things  Hghter  wood  is  as  good,  and  more  eco- 
nomical. After  a  housekeeper  has  tried  her  oven,  her 
yeast,  and  her  oven  wood,  she  can  make  out  very  mi- 
nute directions  for  her  domestics.  But  with  poor  domes- 
tics she  ordinarily  will  need  to  persevere  in  superintend- 
ing this  matter  herself,  if  she  would  always  have  good 
bread. 

20* 


234  DIRECTIONS    FOR   DINNER 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

DIRECTIONS    FOR    DINNER    AND    EVENING   PARTIES. 

The  following  directions  for  a  dinner-party  are  de- 
signed for  a  young"  and  inexperienced  housekeeper,  in 
moderate  circumstances,  who  receives  visiters  at  her  ta- 
ble from  the  most  wealthy  circles. 

They  are  not  intended  for  what  would  be  called  a 
stylish  dinner-party,  but  what  in  New  York,  Philadel- 
phia, and  Boston,  in  the  most  respectable  society,  would 
be  called  a  plain,  substantial  dinner,  and  as  complete 
and  extensive  as  any  young  housekeeper,  with  the 
ordinary  supply  of  domestics,  ought  to  attempt  any- 
where. Anything  much  more  elaborate  than  this, 
usually  demands  the  services  of  a  professed  cook.  The 
details  will  be  given  with  great  minuteness,  that  a  nov- 
ice may  know  exactly  what  to  do  in  every  particular. 

It  is  generally  the  case,  that,  at  dinner-parties  for  gen- 
tlemen, no  ladies  are  present  but  those  who  are  mem- 
bers of  the  family.  The  gentleman  of  the  house  in- 
vites his  friends  the  day  previous,  and  then  gives  notice 
to  his  wife  who  are  to  come,  and  consults  with  her  as  to 
the  articles  to  be  provided,  which  of  course  he  aids  in 
purchasing. 

The  housekeeper  then  makes  a  list  of  all  the  articles 
to  be  used,  either  for  table  furniture  or  cooking,  and  then 
examines  her  cupboard,  store-closet,  and  cellar,  to  see  if 
everything  is  at  hand  and  in  order.  All  the  glass  and 
silver  to  be  used  is  put  in  readiness,  and  the  castors,  salts, 
and  everything  of  the  kind  arranged  properly.  In  order 
to  be  more  definite,  the  exact  dishes  to  be  provided  will 
be  supposed  to  be  these : 

Soup.  Fish.  A  boiled  ham.  A  boiled  turkey,  with 
oyster  sauce.     Three  roasted  ducks,  and  a  dish  of  scol- 


AND  EVENING  PARTIES.  235 

loped  oysters.     Potatoes,  Parsnips,  Turnips,  and  Celery. 
For  dessert.  Pudding",  Pastry,  Fruit,  and  Coffee. 

This  will  make  a  dinner  for  about  ten  or  twelve  per- 
sons. The  pastry  should  be  baked  the  day  before,  and 
the  soup  boiled  down. 

In  the  morning  of  the  day  for  the  dinner-party,  every 
article  should  be  on  hand  from  market,  and  the  cook 
have  extra  help,  so  as  to  get  breakfast  and  the  dishes 
out  of  the  way  early. 

Then,  the  first  thing,  let  her  stuff  and  truss  the  tur- 
key and  ducks,  and  set  them  away  to  use  when  the 
time  comes.  Be  sure  that  they  are  trussed  so  that  the 
legs  and  wings  will  be  tight  to  the  body,  and  not  come 
sprawling  on  to  the  table. 

Suppose  the  dinner  hour  be  three  o'clock,  as  this  is 
the  earliest  hour  at  which  such  a  dinner  could  be  com- 
fortably prepared. 

At  nine  o'clock,  let  the  ham  be  washed,  and  put  to 
boil.  Then  let  the  vegetables  be  prepared,  ready  for 
cooking.  Next  prepare  the  pudding.  The  pastry  ought 
to  be  baked  the  day  before.  If  not,  it  should  be  done 
very  early  in  the  morning,  and  be  out  of  the  way. 

The  pudding  should  be  one  of  those  put  in  the  list  of 
rich  puddings,  which  does  not  require  long  baking  or 
boihng.  The  receipt  will  be  the  guide  as  to  time 
for  cooking  it.  Next,  prepare  the  oysters.  One  large 
cannister  (or  three  pints)  will  be  needed  for  the  dish  of 
scolloped  oysters,  and  a  small  cannister  (or  a  pint)  will 
be  needed  for  the  sauce  for  the  turkey.  This  last  is 
simply  drawn  butter,  with  the  oysters  put  in  it,  and  sim- 
mered a  few  minutes.  Be  sure  and  follow  the  receipt 
for  drawn  butter  exactly,  as  cooks  are  very  apt  to  spoil 
this  kind  of  sauce. 

Put  the  turkey  to  boil  at  one,  if  it  is  tender,  as  it 
ought  to  be,  and  sooner,  if  it  is  not.  Put  the  ducks  to 
roast  at  two.  Ducks  are  best  cooked  rare^  but  the  tur- 
key must  be  boiled  through  entirely,  so  that  all  parts 
look  the  same  color  when  carved. 

The  gravy  for  the  ducks,  and  the  drawn  butter,  must 
be  prepared  half  an  hour  before  taking  up  dinner.     The 


236  DIRECTIONS    FOR    DINNER 

fish  must  be  put  to  boil  in  a  fish  kettle.     The  time 
depends  on  the  size. 

I'he  soup  should  be  boiled  down  the  day  before.  Let 
it  be,  for  example,  the  receipt  named  Macaroni  Soup. 
In  this  case,  any  convenient  time  before  dinner-time, 
put  the  macaroni  to  boil  in  a  sauce-pan  by  itself,  and 
when  cooked  enough,  set  it  aside.  Then,  just  before 
dinner  is  to  be  served,  pour  the  cold  soup  into  the  kettle, 
add  the  seasoning  and  macaroni,  and  give  it  such  a  heat 
as  just  boils  it  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  then  it  is  ready 
to  serve. 

The  vegetables  should  be  put  to  boil  at  such  times  as 
will  have  them  cooked  just  right  at  the  dinner  hour, 
and  this  the  housekeeper  must  calculate,  according  to 
their  size  and  age. 

Unless  there  is  an  experienced  cook,  who  can  be 
trusted  with  everything,  the  lady  of  the  house  must 
superintend  herself  in  the  kitchen,  until  it  is  time  for 
her  to  dress  ;  and  as  the  company  will  not  arrive  till  the 
hour  appointed,  she  can,  by  arranging  her  dress,  all  but 
the  finish,  remain  until  it  is  nearly  time  to  send  up  the 
dinner. 

Setting  the  Table. 

The  table  should  be  set  early  in  the  forenoon,  by  the 
waiter,  under  the  direction  of  the  lady  of  the  house,  and 
in  the  manner  exhibited  in  Fig.  7. 

The.  table  rug  must  first  be  laid  exactly  square  with 
the  room,  and  the  tables  also  set  exactly  parallel  with 
the  sides  of  the  room.  If  the  tables  are  handsome  ones, 
put  on  two  white  table-cloths,  one  above  the  other.  If 
the  tables  are  not  handsome,  cover  them  with  a  colored 
table-cloth,  and  put  two  white  ones  over. 

Then  set  the  castors  in  the  exact  centre  of  the  table. 
Some  prefer  to  have  them  on  a  side-table,  and  the  wait- 
er carry  them  around,  but  the  table  looks  better  to  have 
them  put  in  the  centre.  If  they  are  put  on  the  side- 
table,  the  celery  stand  may  be  placed  in  the  centre  of 
the  table. 

Next  place  the  plates  and  knives  as  in  Fig.  7,  with  a 


AND    EVENING    PARTIES.  237 

napkin  and  tumbler  at  the  right  of  each  plate,  as  in  the 
drawing.  If  it  is  cold  weather,  set  the  plates  to  warm, 
and  leave  them  till  wanted.  Set  the  salt  stands  at  the 
four  corners,  with  two  large  spoons  crossed  by  each,  as 
in  the  drawing. 

Then  place  table-mats  in  the  places  wliere  the  dish- 
es are  to  be  set.  The  host  is  to  be  seated  at  one  end, 
and  the  hostess  at  the  other,  and  at  their  plates  put  two 
knives  and  two  forks.  Put  a  carving  knife  and  fork, 
and  carver  stand,  at  each  place  where  a  dish  is  to  be 
carved.  Put  the  jelly  and  pickles  at  diagonal  corners, 
as  marked  on  the  drawing.  If  wine  is  to  be  used,  put 
two  wine-glasses  by  each  tumbler.  Just  before  dinner 
is  to  be  served,  a  bit  of  bread,  cut  thick,  is  to  be  laid  with 
a  fork  on  each  napkin. 

Then  prepare  the  side-table  thus : 

As  the  party,  including  host  and  hostess,  will  be 
twelve,  there  must  be  one  dozen  soup  plates,  and  one  doz- 
en silver  spoons.  Then  there  must  be  two  dozen  large 
knives,  and  three  dozen  large  plates,  besides  those  on 
the  table.  This  is  to  allow  one  plate  for  fish,  and  two 
for  two  changes  of  meat  for  each  guest.  Some  would 
provide  more.  Then,  there  must  be  three  dozen  dessert 
plates,  and  two  dozen  dessert  knives  and  forks.  One 
dozen  saucers,  and  one  dozen  dessert  spoons.  One  or 
two  extra  of  each  kind,  and  three  or  four  extra  nap- 
kins, should  be  added  for  emergencies.  (At  a  side  stand, 
or  closet,  should  be  placed,  at  dinner-time,  a  wash  dish 
of  hot  water,  and  two  or  three  wiping  towels.) 

On  the  side-table,  also,  is  to  be  placed  all  articles  to 
be  used  in  helping  the  dessert ;  and  unless  there  is 
a  convenient  closet  for  the  purpose,  the  dessert  itself 
must  be  set  there,  and  covered  with  napkins. 

All  the  dishes  and  plates  to  be  used,  except  those  for 
desserts  and  soups,  must,  in  cold  weather,  be  set  to 
warm  by  the  waiter.  If  coffee  is  to  be  served  at  the 
dinner-table,  the  furniture  for  this  must  be  put  on  the 
side-table,  or  in  an  adjacent  room,  or  closet. 


238  DIRECTIONS   FOR   DINNER 

Taking  iqj  the  Dinner. 

Such  a  dinner  as  this  cannot  usually  be  prepared  and 
served  easily,  without  two  to  cook  and  serve  in  the 
kitchen,  and  two  waiters  in  the  dining-room.  One 
waiter  will  answer,  if  he  is  experienced  and  expert  in 
such  matters. 

When  the  hour  for  dinner  arrives,  let  the  cook  first 
take  up  the  soup  and  fish.  The  soup  and  soup  plates 
are  to  be  set  by  the  hostess,  and  .the  spoons  laid  near. 
Potatoes  and  drav/n  butter,  or  fish  sauce,  are  to  be  sent 
up  with  fish. 

The  fish  is  to  be  set  before  the  host,  and  the  fish 
knife  and  sauce  placed  by  it,  and  then  the  waiter  is  to 
inform  the  lady  of  the  house  that  dinner  is  ready.  She 
rises,  and  informs  her  husband,  or  the  guests,  that  din- 
ner is  ready,  and  then  the  gentleman  for  whom  the 
party  is  made,  or  some  other  one  of  the  invited  guests, 
conchicts  the  lady  to  the  table,  and  takes  his  seat  at  the 
first  plate  at  her  right  hand.  She  then  helps  the  soup, 
beginning  at  the  right,  and  passing  it  around  in  order, 
without  inquiring  whether  each  one  wishes  it.  If  any 
one  prefers  fish,  he  passes  the  soup  to  the  next.  Mean- 
time the  host  either  helps  the  fish  to  all  who  wish  it,  or 
leaves  it  covered  till  the  soup  is  removed,  and  the  plates 
changed.  The  plates  for  fish  are  set  on,  around  the 
table,  and  the  soup  plates  are  set  on  to  them,  while  soup 
is  served. 

While  soup  and  fish  are  served  above,  the  cook  be- 
low proceeds  thus  : — The  ham  can  be  taken  up  some 
time  before  dinner,  prepared  for  the  table,  and  set  aside, 
covered,  as  it  is  not  injured  by  standing.  Of  course  this 
is  done  at  any  convenient  time.  The  turkey  and  ducks 
may  first  be  taken  up,  prepared  for  table,  and  tlien  cov- 
ered, and  set  where  they  will  be  kept  warm.  Then  the 
gravies  and  drawn  butter  are  to  be  put  in  the  gravy 
boats.  The  vegetables  must  be  taken  up  the  last  thing, 
and  the  potatoes  last  of  all,  as  the  excellence  of  all  de- 
pends on  their  being  served  hot,  especially  potatoes. 
Some  would  prepare  a  dish  of  mashed  potatoes,  but  this 


AND   EVENING    PARTIES.  239 

increases  the  complexity  of  the  business,  which  should, 
as  much  as  possible,  be  avoided. 

After  soup  and  fish,  and  the  plates  are  removed  by 
the  waiters  above,  and  clean  plates  put  around,  wine  or 
conversation  will  fill  up  the  time,  while  the  meats  are 
brought  on,  which  are  to  be  placed  on  the  table,  cover- 
ed, and  in  the  order  marked  in  the  drawing.  Fig.  7. 

When  all  are  prepared,  the  host  gives  a  sign  to  the 
waiters,  and  the  covers  are  all  to  be  removed,  and  so 
adroitly  that  no  steam  be  spilt  on  the  table-cloth  or 
guests.  To  do  this,  the  covers  must  be  first  inverted, 
holding  tlietn  directly  over  the  dishes  they  cover ^  and 
this  the  hostess  must  teach  the  waiter  to  do  beforehand, 
if  need  be.  He  is  to  be  taught,  also,  to  offer  each  article 
to  guests  on  their  left  side,  to  observe  Avhen  guests  have 
done  eating-,  and  then  to  change  their  plate,  knife,  and 
fork,  and  never  to  speak  except  to  answer  questions,  or 
to  offer  the  articles  he  serves. 

The  host  carves  the  dish  before  him.  The  hostess 
helps  the  dish  opposite  to  her,  and  the  gentlemen  guests 
carve  the  dishes  opposite  to  them.  As  soon  as  ready  to 
help,  the  lady  asks  the  gentleman  at  her  right  to  what 
he  will  be  helped,  and  never  makes  excuses  for,  or 
praises  any  particular  dish.  The  host  commences  at 
his  right  hand,  and  does  the  same,  till  all  are  helped. 
Every  person  begins  to  eat  as  soon  as  helped.  The 
waiters  are  to  observe  if  bread,  water,  or  anything  is 
wanting  to  any  guest,  and  offer  a  supply.  The  hostess 
should,  if  possible,  be  at  ease,  so  as  to  converse,  and  if 
she  has  occasion  to  direct  the  v/aiters  (which,  by  pre- 
vious instructions,  should  be  avoided),  she  should  do  it 
as  quietly  and  easily  as  possible.  After  ail  the  guests 
are  helped,  the  host  helps  the  hostess,  and  then  himself. 

If  wine  is  used,  it  is  served  by  the  host  immediately 
after  soup  and  fish,  and  any  other  times  during  the 
dinner  he  chooses.  If  the  lady  of  the  house  is  asked  to 
drink  wine,  it  is  deemed  uncourteous  to  refuse.  She  is 
expected  to  have  a  Httle  poured  into  her  glass,  and  raise 
it  to  her  hps,  looking  at  and  slightly  bowing  to  the 
guest  who  makes  the  request,  and  as  soon  as  he  has  fill- 


240  DIRECTIONS    FOR   DINNER 

ed  his  glass.  Whenever  any  other  makes  the  same 
request,  a  very  Uttle  wine  is  to  be  poured  into  her  glass, 
as  the  ceremony  is  incomplete  without  this. 

After  any  guest  has  finished  eating,  the  waiter  is 
to  change  his  plate,  knife,  and  fork,  and  the  host  or 
hostess  asks  to  what  he  will  be  helped. 

Soon  after  all  the  guests  are  done  eating  meats,  the 
hostess  directs  the  waiter,  and  every  article  is  removed 
from  the  table,  and  the  upper  table-cloth  taken  off. 
Then  the  dessert  knives,  forks,  and  plates  are  set  around, 
and  the  dessert  is  placed  on  the  table.  The  pudding  is 
to  be  set  on  a  mat,  before  the  hostess,  and  the  dish  of 
cheese  before  the  host,  and  the  pastry  arranged  in  some 
regular  order  on  the  table,  with  knives  and  forks  to 
help.  These  are  divided  and  distributed  by  tlie  host 
and  hostess,  assisted  by  the  guests. 

When  these  are  finished,  everything  is  removed  again, 
and  the  other  table-cloth  taken  off,  leaving  the  bare  ta- 
ble, or  the  colored  cloth.  Then  the  fruit  is  set  on. 
After  fruit,  the  coffee  is  brought  to  the  table,  or  the 
company  retire  to  the  drawing-room,  and  take  their 
coffee  there. 


Such  a  dinner-party  as  the  above,  may  be  got  up 
and  carried  through  comfortably  by  a  housekeeper,  if 
she  is  provided  with  an  experienced  cook  and  well- 
trained  waiter.  But  without  these,  it  is  absolute 
cruelty  for  a  husband  to  urge,  or  even  to  allow  his  wife 
to  go  through  all  the  toil,  anxiety,  and  effort  needful  for 
such  an  affair. 

In  all  cases,  it  would  be  more  consistent  with  the 
laws  of  health,  and  thus  with  the  laws  of  God,  to  have 
a  dinuer  including  far  less  variety,  and  it  is  hoped  that 
as  true  Christianity  and  true  refinement  advance,  that 
the  reform  in  regard  to  eating  will  advance,  like  the 
temperance  reform  in  regard  to  drinking. 

When  men  become  so  refined  and  cultivated,  that 
they  can  supply  wit  and  good  sense,  instead  of  the 
overflows  induced  by  the  excitement  of  wine,  diluted  by 


AND    EVENING    PARTIES.  241 

the  stupidity  resulting-  from  excess  in  eating,  a  house- 
keeper will  find  the  giving  of  a  dinner-party  a  very  dif- 
ferent matter  from  what  it  ordinarily  is  found  to  be. 
As  dining  parties  are  often  conducted,  the  number,  and 
variety,  and  character  of  the  dishes  offered,  tempt  to  an 
excess,  which  overloads  the  stomach,  and  thus  stupifies 
the  brain  ;  so  that  all  the  wit  and  brilliancy  that  is  ob- 
tained, is  the  simple  product  oi  vinous  fermentation. 

Tea  Parties  and  Evening  Company. 

In  one  respect,  fashion  has  aided  to  relieve  a  house- 
keeper of  much  care  in  providing  evening  entertain 
ments.  It  is  now  fashionable  to  spread  a  table  for 
evening  parties,  and  not  to  serve  tea  and  coffee,  as  was 
formerly  done.  As  tliis  is  the  easiest,  and  most  ration- 
al way  of  entertaining  evening  company,  no  other 
method  will  be  so  minutely  described. 

If  a  lady  designs  to  invite  from  forty  to  sixty  friends 
to  pass  the  evening,  or  even  to  have  a  much  larger  com- 
pany invited,  the  following  would  be  called  a  plain  but 
genteel  arrangement,  for  company  in  New  York,  Phila- 
delphia, or  any  of  our  large  cities. 

Set  a  long  table  in  the  dining-room,  and  cover  it  with 
a  handsome  damask  cloth.  Set  some  hia^h  article  con- 
taining  flowers,  or  some  ornamental  article,  in  the  cen- 
tre. Set  Champagne  glasses  with  flowers  at  each  cor- 
ner. Set  loaves  of  cake  at  regular  distances,  and  dis- 
pose in  some  regular  order  about  the  table,  preserves, 
jellies,  lemonade,  and  any  other  articles  that  may  be 
selected  from  the  abundant  variety  offered  in  the  collec- 
tion of  Receipts  for  Evening  Parties  in  this  book. 

Where  a  very  large  company  is  to  be  collected,  and  a 
larger  treat  is  thought  to  be  required,  then  a  long  table 
is  set  in  the  centre  of  the  room,  as  above,  and  on  it  are 
placed  cakes,  pastry,  jellies,  and  confectionary.  Then 
smaller  tables  are  set  each  side  of  a  mantle,  or  in  cor- 
ners, one  of  which  is  furnished  with  sandwiches,  oysters, 
salad,  celery,  and  wine,  and  the  other  with  coffee,  choco- 
late, and  lemonade.     Sometimes  all  are  placed  on  one 

21 


242      DIRECTIONS    FOR    DINNER    AND    EVENING    PARTIES. 

long  table,  and  in  this  case,  cakes,  jellies,  and  confec- 
tionary are  put  in  the  centre,  coffee  and  lemonade  at 
one  end,  and  oysters,  sandwiches,  celery,  and  wines  at 
the  other.  A  great  deal  of  taste  may  be  displayed  in 
preparing  and  arranging  such  a  table. 

As  it  is  often  the  case,  that  the  old  mode  of  serving 
tea  and  coffee  will  be  resorted  to,  one  modification  is 
proposed,  which  decreases  the  labour  and  anxiety  to  the 
housekeeper,  and  increases  tlie  enjoyment  of  the  com- 
pany. It  is  this.  Set  a  table  in  one  of  the  parlors,  and 
cover  it  with  a  damask  cloth.  Let  the  tea  and  coffee 
be  served  at  this  table,  the  lady  of  the  house  presiding. 
Then  let  the  gentlemen  wait  upon  the  ladies  around 
the  room,  and  then  help  themselves.  This  is  particu- 
larly convenient  when  it  is  difficult  to  get  good  waiters. 

Most  of  the  articles  used  for  evening  parties  (with 
the  exception  of  rich  cakes,  wine,  and  high-seasoned 
chicken  salad)  are  not  unheal thful,  if  taken  moderately. 

When  these  parties  break  up  at  seasonable  hours, 
they  may  prove  one  of  the  most  rational  and  harmless 
modes  of  securing  social  enjoyment ;  but  when  connect- 
ed with  highly  exciting  amusements,  and  late  hours, 
they  are  sure  to  wear  upon  the  constitution  and  health, 
and  rational  and  conscientious  persons,  for  these  and 
other  reasons,  will  avoid  them. 


ON    SETTING    TABLES,    ETC.  243 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

ON   SETTING   TABLES,    AND   PREPARING   VARIOUS   ARTICLES    OF 
FOOD    FOR    THE    TABLE. 

To  a  person  accustomed  to  a  good  table,  the  manner 
in  which  the  table  is  set,  and  the  mode  in  which 
food  is  prepared  and  set  on,  has  a  great  influence,  not 
only  on  the  eye,  but  the  appetite.  A  housekeeper  ought, 
therefore,  to  attend  carefully  to  these  particulars. 

The  table-cloth  should  always  be  ivhite,  and  well 
washed  and  ironed.  When  taken  from  the  table,  it 
should  be  folded  in  the  ironed  creases,  and  some  heavy 
article  laid  on  it.  A  heavy  bit  of  plank,  smoothed  and 
kept  for  the  purpose,  is  useful.  By  this  method,  the 
table-cloth  looks  tidy  much  longer  than  when  it  is  less 
carefully  laid  aside. 

Where  table  napkins  are  used,  care  should  be  taken 
to  keep  the  same  one  to  each  person,  and  in  laying 
them  aside,  they  should  be  folded  so  as  to  hide  the  soil- 
ed places,  and  laid  under  pressure. 

The  table-cloth  should  alw^ays  be  put  on  square^  and 
right  side  upw^ard.  The  articles  of  furniture  should  be 
placed  as  exhibited  in  figures  7  and  8. 

The  bread  for  breakfast  and  tea  should  be  cut  in 
even,  regular  slices,  not  over  a  fourth  of  an  inch  thick, 
and  all  crumbs  removed  from  the  bread  plate.  They 
should  be  piled  in  a  regular  form,  and  if  the  slices  are 
large,  they  should  be  divided. 

The  butter  should  be  cooled  in  cold  water,  if  not  al- 
ready hard,  and  then  cut  into  a  smooth  and  regular 
form,  and  a  butter  knife  be  laid  by  the  plate,  to  be  used 
for  no  other  purpose  but  to  help  the  butter. 

Small  mats,  or  cup  plates,  should  be  placed  at  each 
plate,  to  receive  the  tea-cup,  when  it  would  otherwise  be 
set  upon  the  table-cloth  and  stain  it. 


244 


ON    SETTING   TABLE,    AND 
Fig.  7. 


0 

°o 

"O 

'O 

® 

00 

CO 

CD 

® 

© 

a  n           \ 

F 

0®@ 

G 

)© 

® 

Ofi 

^ 

c^ 

CO 

Cl> 

Os 

Oa  Oa 

Os 

A,  Castors. 

B,  Boiled  Turkey. 

C,  Oyster  Sauce. 

D,  Roasted  Ducks. 

E,  Gravy  for  Ducks. 


A 


F,  Scolloped  Oysters. 

G,  Boiled  Ham. 
H.  Potatoes. 

I,  Turnips. 
S,  Celery. 

Fig.  8. 


K,  Parsnips. 
PP,  Pickles. 
JJ,  Jelly. 
X,  Host. 
Y,  Hostess. 


AH  the  flour  should  be  wiped  from  small  cakes,  and 
the  crumbs  be  kept  from  the  bread  plate. 

In  preparing  dishes  for  the  dinner-table,  all  water 


PREPARING   ARTICLES   FOR   THE    TABLE.  245 

should  be  carefully  drained  from  vegetables,  and  the 
edges  of  the  platters  and  dishes  should  be  made  perfect- 
ly clean  and  neat. 

All  soiled  spots  should  be  removed  from  the  outside  of 
pitchers,  gravy  boats,  and  every  article  used  on  the  ta- 
jjle  ;  the  handles  of  the  knives  and  forks  must  be  clean, 
and  the  knives  bright  and  sharp. 

In  winter,  the  plates,  and  all  the  dishes  used,  both  for 
meat  and  vegetables,  should  be  set  to  the  fire  to  warm, 
when  the  table  is  being  set,  as  cold  plates  and  dishes 
cool  the  vegetables,  gravy,  and  meats,  which  by  many 
is  deemed  a  great  injury. 

Cucumbers,  when  prepared  for  table,  should  be  laid 
in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  two  to  cool,  and  then  be 
peeled  and  cut  into  fresh  cold  water.  Then  they  should 
be  drained,  and  brought  to  the  table,  and  seasoned  the 
last  thing. 

The  water  should  be  drained  thoroughly  from  all 
greens  and  salads. 

There  are  certain  articles  which  are  usually  set  on 
together,  because  it  is  the  fashion,  or  because  they  are 
suited  to  each  other. 

Thus  with  strong -flavored  meats,  like  mutton,  goose, 
and  duck,  it  is  customary  to  serve  the  strong-flavored 
vegetables,  such  as  onions  and  turnips.  Thus,  turnips 
are  put  in  mutton  broth,  and  served  ^\ath  mutton,  and 
onions  are  used  to  stuff  geese  and  ducks.  But  onions 
are  usually  banished  from  the  table  and  from  cooking, 
on  account  of  the  disagreeable  flavor  they  impart  to  the 
atmosphere  and  breath. 

Boiled  Poultry  should  be  accompanied  with  boiled 
ham,  or  tongue. 

Boiled  Rice  is  served  with  poultry  as  a  vegetable. 

Jelly  is  served  with  mutton,  venison,  and  roasted 
meats,  and  is  used  in  the  gravies  for  hashes. 

Fresh  Pork  requires  some  acid  sauce,  such  as  cran- 
berry, or  tart  apple  sauce. 

Drawn  Butter,  prepared  as  in  the  receipt,  with  eggs 
in  it,  is  used  with  boiled  fowls  and  boiled  fish. 

Pickles  are  served  especially  with  fish,  and  Soy  is  a 

21* 


246  ON    SETTING    TABLES,    ETC. 

fashionable  sauce  for  fish,  which  is  mixed  on  the  plate 
with  drawn  butter. 

There  are  modes  of  garnishing  dishes,  and  prepar- 
ing them  for  table,  which  give  an  air  of  taste  and  re- 
finement, that  pleases  the  eye. 

Thus,  in  preparing  a  dish  of  fricasseed  fowls,  or  stew- 
ed fowls,  or  cold  fowls  warmed  over,  small  cups  of  boil- 
ed rice  can  be  laid  inverted  around  the  edge  of  the  plat- 
ter, to  eat  with  the  meat. 

Sweetbreads  fried  brown  in  lard,  and  laid  around  such 
a  dish,  give  it  a  tasteful  look. 

On  Broiled  Ham,  or  Yeal,  eggs  boiled,  or  fried  and 
laid,  one  on  each  piece,  look  well. 

Greens  and  Asj^aragus  should  be  well  drained,  and 
laid  on  buttered  toast,  and  then  slices  of  boiled  eggs  be 
laid  on  the  top,  and  around. 

Hashes,  and  preparations  of  pig's  and  calve's  head 
and  feet,  should  be  laid  on  toast,  and  garnished  with 
round  slices  of  lemon. 

Curled  Parsley,  or  Common  Parsley,  is  a  pretty 
garnish,  to  be  fastened  to  the  shank  of  a  ham,  to  con- 
ceal the  bone,  and  laid  around  tlie  dish  holding  it.  It 
looks  well  laid  around  any  dish  of  cold  slices  of  tongue, 
ham,  or  meat  of  any  kind. 

The  proper  mode  of  setting  a  dinner-table  is  shown 
at  Fig.  7,  and  the  proper  way  of  setting  a  tea-table  is 
shown  at  Fig.  8.  In  this  drawing  of  a  tea-table,  small- 
sized  plates  are  set  around,  with  a  knife,  napkin,  and 
cup  plate  laid  by  each,  in  a  regular  manner,  while  the 
articles  of  food  are  to  be  set,  also,  in  regular  order.  On 
the  waiter  are  placed  the  tea-cups  and  saucers,  sugar 
bowl,  slop  bowl,  cream  cup,  and  two  or  three  articles  for 
tea,  coffee,  and  water,  as  the  case  may  be.  This  draw- 
ing may  aid  some  housekeepers  in  teaching  a  domestic 
how  to  set  a  tea-table,  as  the  picture  will  assist  the  mem- 
ory in  some  cases.  On  the  dinner  table,  by  each  plate, 
is  a  knife,  fork,  napkin,  and  tumbler :  on  the  tea-table, 
by  each  plate  is  a  knife,  napkin,  and  small  cup-plate. 


SYSTEMATIC    FAMILY    ARRANGEMENT,    ETC.  247 


CHAPTER  XXVIIL 

ON    SYSTEMATIC    FAMILY   ARRANGEMENT,  AND    MODE  OF    DOING 

WORK. 

Nothing  secures  ease  and  success  in  housekeeping  so 
efficiently  as  system  in  arranging  work.  In  order  to  aid 
those  who  are  novices  in  these  matters,  the  following  out- 
lines are  furnished  by  an  accomplished  housekeeper. 
They  are  the  details  of  family  work,  in  a  family  of  ten 
persons,  where  a  cook,  chambermaid,  and  boy,  are  all  the 
domestics  employed,  and  where  the  style  of  living  is  plain, 
but  every  way  comfortable.  The  mistress  of  this  fami- 
ly arranges  the  Avork  for  each  domestic,  and  writes  it  on 
a  large  card,  which  is  suspended  in  the  kitchen  for  gui- 
dance and  reference.  On  hiring  a  new  cook,  or  cham- 
bermaid, these  details  are  read  to  her,  and  the  agree- 
ment made,  with  a  full  understanding,  on  both  sides,  of 
what  is  expected.  The  following  is  copied,  verbatim, 
from  these  cards  prepared  for  the  cook  and  chamber- 
maid. 

Directions  for  the  Cook. 

Sunday. — Rise  as  early  as  on  other  days.  No  work  is 
to  be  done  that  can  be  properly  avoided. 

Mojiday. — Rise  early  in  hot  weather,  to  have  the 
cool  of  the  day  for  work.  Try  to  have  everything  done 
in  the  best  manner.  See  that  the  clothes  line  is  brought 
in  at  night,  and  the  clothes  pins  counted  and  put  in  the 
bag.  Put  the  tubs,  barrel,  and  pails  used,  on  the  cellar 
bottom. 

Inquire  every  night,  before  going  to  bed,  respecting 
breakfast,  so  as  to  make  preparation  beforehand. 

Tuesday. — Clean  the  kitchen  and  sink-room.  Bake, 
and  fold  the  clothes  to  iron  the  next  day. 


248  SYSTEMATIC    FAMILY   ARRANGEMENT, 

Wednesday. — Rise  early  in  warm  weather,  so  as  to 
iron  in  the  cool  of  the  day. 

Thursday. — Fold  off  the  clothes.  No  other  special 
work. 

Friday. — Clean  all  the  closets,  the  kitchen  windows, 
the  cellar  stairs,  and  the  privies.  Try  up  all  the  grease, 
and  put  it  away  for  use. 

Saturday. — Bake,  and  prepare  a  dinner  for  Sunday. 

Every  day  but  Monday,  wipe  the  shelves  in  the  pan- 
try and  kitchen  closet. 

Be  carefid  to  have  clean  dish  towels,  and  never  use 
them  for  other  purposes. 

Keep  a  good  supply  of  holders,  both  for  cooking  and 
ironing,  and  keep  them  hung  up  when  not  in  use. 

Keep  your  boiler  for  dish  water  covered. 

Sweep  and  dust  the  kitchen  every  day. 

Never  throw  dirt,  bones,  or  paper  around  the  doors  or 
yard. 

Never  give  or  lend  what  belongs  to  the  family  with- 
out leave. 

Try  to  keep  everything  neat,  clean,  and  in  order. 

Have  a  time  for  everythi7ig^  a  place  for  every- 
thing^ and  everything  in  its  place. 

The  hour  for  going  to  bed  is  ten  o'clock.  Those 
who  Avork  hard  should  go  to  bed  early,  or  else  health 
and  eyesight  will  fail. 

Directions  for  the  Chambermaid, 

Sweep  the  sitting-room  before  breakfast  on  Tuesdays 
and  Saturdays. 

Wednesday,  give  all  the  chambers  a  thorough  sweep- 
ing, and  wash  down  the  stairs. 

Thursday,  sweep  the  bedroom  and  nursery,  and  wipe 
the  paint.  Put  up  the  clean  clothes,  after  the  cook  folds 
them. 

Friday,  wash  the  windows  and  the  piazzas. 

Saturday,  sweep  the  chambers,  wash  the  bowls  and 
pitchers  in  hot  suds,  and  scald  the  other  vessels,  unless 
they  are  washed  in  hot  suds  daily,  when  they  will  not 
need  it. 


AND   MODE    OF    DOING   WORK.  249 

After  doing  the  daily  chamber- work,  collect  the  lamps, 
and  fix  them  in  this  manner : 

First  pick  up  the  wicks,  and  cut  them  off  square 
(and  for  this  purpose  keep  sharp  scissors),  then  clean  all 
the  black  sediment  from  the  tubes.  Wash  them  in  suds 
as  hot  as  you  can  bear  your  hand  in,  and  wipe  them 
dry  with  a  cloth  kept  clean  for  the  purpose,  and  used 
for  nothing  else.  Be  careful  not  to  fill  them  full,  lest 
the  oil  swell  and  run  over.  Screw  them  very  tight,  and 
see  that  the  little  air-hole  is  kept  open,  or  the  lamp  will 
not  burn. 

Wash  the  outside  of  the  oil  filler,  and  wipe  the  scis- 
sors clean.  Wash  the  cloths  used  in  fresh,  clean  suds, 
dry  them,  and  then  put  them  in  their  place.  Wipe  the 
basin  used,  and  put  it  in  its  place. 

After  cleaning  the  lamps,  wash  and  scour  the  knives, 
thus  : 

Wash  them  first,  and  be  careful  not  to  put  the  han- 
dles in  the  water.  Wipe  them  dry,  and  then  scour  them 
with  Bath  brick,  and  a  cork  dipped  in  soft  soap.  Nev- 
er rub  a  knife  on  a  board  in  scouring  it,  as  it  wears  it 
out  very  fast. 

After  scouring,  do  not  wash  them,  but  wipe  them 
with  a  dry  cloth,  and  be  careful  to  get  the  brick  out 
from  between  the  fork  tines.  Use  a  small  stick  prepa- 
red for  the  purpose.  If  the  handles  are  soiled  by  scour- 
ing, wipe  them  with  a  damp  cloth. 

Lay  the  large  knives  in  one  side  of  the  knife  basket, 
and  the  small  ones  the  other  side,  and  put  the  handles  of 
the  knives  one  way,  and  the  handles  of  the  forks  the 
opposite  way. 

Always  fill  the  boiler  after  you  take  out  dish  water, 
lest  the  cook  be  disturbed  by  your  neglecting  it. 

Arrange  the  china-closet  in  order,  after  putting  up 
the  breakfast  dishes.  Dishes  not  often  used  must  be 
wiped  when  used. 

In  doing  chamber- work,  turn  up  the  vallance  of  the 
beds,  set  the  windows  open,  brush  down  cobwebs,  move 
every  moveable  article,  to  sweep  under  it,  and  stveep 
with  short  strokes. 


250  SYSTEMATIC    FAMILY    ARRANGEMENT, 

Always  hang  the  cloths  kept  for  wiping  bowls  and 
pitchers  on  the  towel  frames,  and  use  them  for  nothing 
else. 

Have  a  dust  cloth  with  a  loop  for  every  room,  and 
put  it  in  the  wash  once  a  fortnight. 

Wash  the  breakfast  dishes  thus  : — Rinse  the  cups, 
scrape  the  plates  very  clean,  put  the  bits  of  butter  on 
the  butter  plate,  and  empty  all  the  slops  into  the  slop 
bowl,  and  then  empty  it. 

First  wash  the  glass  things  with  a  swab  in  suds,  as 
hot  as  possible,  Aviping  each  one  as  soon  as  taken  out 
of  the  water.  When  glass  is  very  cold,  put  a  little  warm 
water  in  it  before  putting  it  into  the  hot  suds,  or  you 
will  crack  it. 

Next  wash  the  silver  and  Britannia,  wiping  each  as 
soon  as  taken  out.     Then  wash  the  other  articles. 

Keep  the  castors  bright  and  clean,  and  well  filled. 
Wipe  the  salt  spoons  dry,  and  do  not  lay  them  so  as  to 
touch  the  salt.  If  the  salt  is  damp,  take  it  out  and 
dry  it,  mashing  it  to  powder. 

Wipe  off  the  china-closet  shelves  every  day,  and  Sat- 
urdays wash  them. 

Rub  the  silver  and  Britannia  every  Saturday,  after 
washing  them. 


In  the  Domestic  Economy,  at  p.  318,  will  be  found  di- 
rections for  washing  dishes  m  the  kitchen,  which  are  to 
be  hung  over  the  sink. 

Every  family  must  vary  somewhat  from  all  others  in 
its  routine  of  family  work,  and  it  often  is  the  case,  that 
such  written  directions  will  be  of  little  or  no  use  to  do- 
mestics. But  the  fact  of  having  them  w^ritten,  and  the 
reading  of  them  over  to  all  new-comers,  as  what  is  ex- 
pected of  them,  and  occasional  reference  to  them,  as 
what  was  agreed  on  when  making  the  bargain,  often 
will  be  of  much  service.  And  it  is  an  aid  to  the  house- 
keeper herself,  who  is  liable  to  forget  many  things  in 
teaching  new-comers  their  duties. 


AND    MODE    OF    DOING    WORK.  251. 

Odds  and  Ends. 

There  are  certain  odds  and  ends^  where  every  house- 
keeper will  gain  much  by  having  a  regular  time  to 
attend  to  them.  Let  this  time  be  the  last  Saturday 
forenoon  in  every  month,  or  any  other  time  more  agree- 
able, but  let  there  be  a  regular  fixed  time  once  a 
month,  in  which  the  housekeeper  will  attend  to  the  fol- 
lowing things  : 

First,  go  around  to  every  room,  drawer,  and  closet  in 
the  house,  and  see  what  is  out  of  order,  and  what  needs 
to  be  done,  and  make  arrangements  as  to  time  and 
manner  of  doing  it. 

Second,  examine  the  store-closet,  and  see  if  there  is 
a  proper  supply  of  all  articles  needed  there. 

Third,  go  to  the  cellar,  and  see  if  the  salted  provis- 
ion, vegetables,  pickles,  vinegar,  and  all  other  articles 
stored  in  the  cellar  are  in  proper  order,  and  examine  all 
the  preserves  and  jellies. 

Fourth,  examine  the  trunk,  or  closet  of  family  linen, 
and  see  what  needs  to  be  repaired  and  renewed. 

Fifth,  see  if  there  is  a  supply  of  dish  towels,  dish 
cloths,  bags,  holders,  floor  cloths,  dust  cloths,  wrapping 
paper,  twine,  lamp-wicks,  and  all  other  articles  needed 
in  kitchen  work. 

Sixth,  count  over  the  spoons,  knives,  and  forks,  and 
examine  all  the  various  household  utensils,  to  see  what 
need  replacing,  and  what  should  be  repaired. 

A  housekeeper  who  will  have  a  regular  time  for  at- 
tending to  these  particulars,  will  find  her  whole  family 
machinery  moving  easily  and  well ;  but  one  who  does 
not,  will  constantly  be  finding  something  out  of  joint, 
and  an  unquiet,  secret  apprehension  of  duties  left  un- 
done, or  forgotten,  which  no  other  method  will  so  effect- 
ually remove. 

A  housekeeper  will  often  be  much  annoyed  by  the 
accumulation  of  articles  not  immediately  needed,  that 
must  be  saved  for  future  use.  The  following  method, 
adopted  by  a  thrifty  housekeeper,  may  be  imitated  with 
advantage.     She  bought  some  cheap  calico,  and  made 


252  UTENSILS    AND    CONVENIENCES 

bags  of  various  sizes,  and  wrote  the  following  labels 
with  indelible  ink  on  a  bit  of  broad  tape,  and  sewed 
them  on  one  side  of  the  bags  : —  Old  Linens  ;  Old 
Cottons  ;  Old  Black  Silks  ;  Old  Colored  fSilks  ; 
Old  Stockings ;  Old  Colored  Woollens ;  Old  Flan- 
7iels  ;  New  Linen ;  New  Cotton  ;  New  Woollens ; 
New  Silks ;  Pieces  of  Dresses ;  Pieces  of  Boys'* 
Clothes^  &c.  These  bags  were  hung  around  a  closet, 
and  filled  with  the  above  articles,  and  then  it  was 
known  v/here  to  look  for  each,  and  where  to  put  each 
when  not  in  use. 

Another  excellent  plan  is  for  a  housekeeper  once  a 
month  to  make  out  a  hill  of  fare  for  the  four  weeks  to 
come.  To  do  this,  let  her  look  over  this  book,  and  find 
out  what  kind  of  dishes  the  season  of  the  year  and  her 
own  stores  will  enable  her  to  provide,  and  then  make 
out  a  list  of  the  dishes  she  will  provide  through  the 
month,  so  as  to  have  an  agreeable  variety  for  breakfasts, 
dinners,  and  suppers.  Some  systematic  arrangement 
of  this  kind  at  regular  periods  will  secure  great  comfort 
and  enjoyment  to  a  family. 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

OJNT    A    PROPER    SUPPLY   OF    UTENSILS    AND    CONVENIENCES    FOR 

HOUSEKEEPING. 

What  is  the  proper  supply  of  kitchen  utensils,  de- 
pends very  much  on  the  style  of  living  adopted,  and  on 
the  character  of  the  domestics  ejnplo3^ed.  Where  a  per- 
son's means  are  small,  there  must  be  a  sacrifice  of  time 
and  convenience  to  save  expense  ;  and  where  domestics 
are  in  such  habits  that  no  proper  care  will  be  taken  of 
utensils,  the  supply  must  be  more  limited. 

But  where  a  housekeeper  has  abundant  means,  and 
where  she  can,  by  a  reasonable  effort,  secure  proper 
attention  to  the  care  of  utensils,  it  greatly  contributes 


FOR    IIOUSEKEEriNG.  253 

to  the  ease  and  success  of  housekeeping  to  have  a  full 
supply  of  them.  And  there  is  much  economy,  both  of 
time  and  comfort,  in  securing  such  a  supply.  Where 
there  are  a  few  utensils,  and  these  are  to  be  used  for  a 
great  variety  of  purposes,  there  is  a  loss  of  time  in  stop- 
ping to  clean  articles  used  for  one  thing,  when  wanted 
for  another ;  there  is  a  loss  of  time  in  running  about  to 
look  for  them  ;  and  there  is  3,\oss  of  patience  in  finding 
them  out  of  the  way  at  just  the  wrong  time,  so  that 
good  success  is  often  thus  entirely  prevented. 

Moreover,  many  processes  of  cooking  and  housekeep- 
ing are  performed  with  much  more  success,  when  the 
cook  is  well  provided  with  suitable  utensils ;  while  the 
use  of  the  same  article  for  various  kinds  of  dishes,  or 
for  different  modes  of  cooking,  often  destroys  the  deli- 
cate flavor  of  food,  and  makes  all  dishes  taste  very  much 
alike.  This  is  the  case  often,  in  steam  and  canal  boats, 
where  every  article  on  the  table  seems  to  have  imbi- 
bed one  and  the  same  flavor.- 

In  pointing  out  the  various  conveniences  to  be  used 
in  housekeeping,  reference  will  be  had  to  those  chiefly 
who  have  means  to  purchase  everything  they  deem 
useful,  and  also  who  can  obtain  such  domestics,  that 
proper  care  will  be  taken  of  whatever  is  provided. 

In  the  Domestic  Economy  at  p.  319,  is  a  list  em- 
bracing a  full  supply  of  all  those  articles  which 
some  of  the  best  housekeepers  in  our  country  deem 
useful  and  desirable,  for  the  various  processes  of  house- 
keeping, in  a  family  of  inediiiin  size,  and  of  abundant 
means  ;  where  everything  is  done  for  comfort^  and  no- 
thing for  show. 

Kitchen  Furniture. 

The  kitchen  floor  should  be  covered  with  an  oil  cloth. 
Carpets,  or  bits  of  carpet,  are  not  so  good,  because  of  the 
grease  and  filth  that  must  accumulate  in  them,  and  the 
labor  of  sweeping,  shaking,  and  cleansing  them.  No- 
thing is  cleansed  so  easily  as  an  oil  cloth,  and  it  is  much 
better  than  a  painted  floor,  because  it  can  be  removed  to 

be  painted. 

*  22 


254 


UTENSILS    AND    CONVENIENCES 


If  the  cook  is  troubled  with  cold  feet  in  winter,  small 
bits  of  carpeting  can  be  laid  where  she  sits  and  stands 
the  most.  Otherwise  they  had  better  be  kept  out  of  the 
kitchen. 

Directions  for  preparing  a  kitchen  oil  cloth  will  be 
found  page  317  of  the  Domestic  Economy. 

There  should  always  be  a  clock  in  the  kitchen,  as  in- 
dispensable to  success  in  cooking,  and  regularity  of 
meals. 

Two  tables,  a  large  one  for  cooking,  and  a  small  one 
for  meals,  should  be  provided. 

Besides  this,  a  settee  ironing-table  is  a  very  great  com- 
fort and  convenience,  which  is  represented  at  Fig.  9,  and 
is  a  better  pattern  than  the  one  described  in  the  Domes- 
tic Economy. 

Fig.  9. 


The  back  is  made  to  turn  on  pivots  at  CO,  and  rests 
when  turned  on  the  sides.  At  AA,  are  projections,  with  a 
hole  that  meets  the  holes  in  the  sides  at  BB,  and  then 
the  peg  at  E  is  put  in  to  hold  it  firml}^  The  box,  or 
seat,  is  divided  into  two  parts,  with  lids  at  DD,  and  in  these 
boxes  are  kept,  on  one  side  the  ironing  sheet,  wipers  and 
holders,  and  on  the  other  side,  the  irons,  rings,  <fcc.,  used 
in  ironing.  When  the  back  is  not  used  for  ironing,  it  is 
put  down,  and  the  article  is  a  good  settee,  and  if  provi- 
ded with  cushions,  is  as  comfortable  as  most  parlor  sofas. 
It  can  be  put  on  castors,  and  have  handles  at  the  sides, 
and  then  it  can  be  moved  up  to  the  fire  winter  evenings 
for  use ;  the  back  serving  both  to  reflect  the  warmth  of 
the  fire^  and  to  keep  off  draughts  of  air. 


FOR    HOUSEKEEPING. 


255 


The  following  are  the  dimensions.  Length,  six  feet. 
Width  of  seat,  twenty  inches.  Height  of  seat,  four- 
teen inches.  Height  of  back,  from  the  bottom,  four 
feet.  This  makes  the  width  of  the  table  when  it  is 
turned  down.  Height  of  the  ends  where  the  table  rests 
when  turned  over,  two  feet  six  inches. 

In  some  families,  it  is  sometimes  necessary  to  have  a 
domestic  sleep  in  the  kitchen.  In  this  case,  a  hunk  set- 
tee^ like  the  one  which  is  represented  as  open  at  Fig.  10, 
is  very  convenient. 

Fig.  10. 


The  following  are  the  dimensions.  Six  feet  long. 
Seat  two  feet  wide,  and  sixteen  inches  high.  The 
parts  c  c  pass  within  the  ends  d  d.  The  seat  a,  when 
it  is  shut  up,  rests  on  the  ledge  that  runs  along  the  back 
at  b.  The  bed  and  bed-clothing  are  at  the  bottom  of 
the  box,  and  are  shut  up  in  it  by  day. 

At  Fig.  11  is  represented  a  kitchen  table,  with  shelves 
and  drawers  fastened  over  it,  which,  if  made  and  fur- 
nished in  the  manner  described,  every  housekeeper 
would  find  an  invaluable  aid  to  system,  and  it  would 
save,  many  steps,  and  much  inconvenience.  The  shelves 
are  to  be  nailed  or  screwed  on  the  wall  at  a  convenient 
height  over  the  table. 


256 


UTENSILS   AND   CONVENIENCES 
Fig.  11 


The  following  are  the  dimensions  of  the  two  articles. 

Table. — Six  feet  long-.  Three  feet  two  inches  broad. 
Thirty  inches  high.  The  top  to  project  only  two  inch- 
es over  the  frame.  The  box  divided  by  three  drawers. 
Two  of  the  drawers  divided  by  partitions  into  three 
equal  parts,  as  seen  by  the  dotted  lines  in  the  drawing. 

The  shelves  over  the  table  are  three  feet  in  height, 
three  feet  six  inches  wide,  and  a  foot  deep.  The  draw- 
ers are  four  inches  deep,  and  the  part  above  the  drawers 
is  divided  by  the  shelves  into  three  equal  portions.  It 
is  better  to  have  two  doors  in  front  of  the  shelves  to  shut 
the  dust  out.     Some  would  prefer  a  curtain  to  slide  on 


FOR   HOUSEKEEPING.  257 

an  iron  wire.  At  A  is  hung  the  salt  box,  made  with  a 
lid,  and  at  B  is  the  coffee  millj  and  the  other  side  the 
soap  dish  is  at  C. 

To  furnish  this  complete,  there  should  be  tin  boxes 
made  with  tight  lapping  covers,  like  that  at  Fig.  12, 
and  of  three  sizes.  The  largest  should  be  eight  inches 
in  height,  and  three  and  a  half  in  diameter.  The  next 
size  should  be  six  inches  high  and  three  inches  in  diam- 
eter. The  next  should  be  four  inches  high  and  two 
inches  in  diameter.  These  can  all  be  made  at  a  tinner's 
for  a  small  sum.  In  the  largest  size  put  two  kinds  of 
sugar,  and  the  starch.  In  the  medium  size  keep  tea  and 
coffee,  table  salt  and  ginger.  In  the  smallest  size  keep 
cream  tartar,  indigo,  mustard,  sweet  herbs,  and  spices. 
In  junk  bottles,  keep  a  supply  of  vinegar,  molasses,  and 
catsup.  In  a  wide-mouth  glass  jar,  with  tight  glass 
stopper,  keep  soda,  or  saleratus.  Write  labels  and  paste 
on  to  each,  and  arrange  them  on  these  shelves  in  one 
division.  On  the  shelves  of  the  other  division,  put  the 
following  articles  : — those  that  can  be  suspended,  hang 
on  nails  at  the  side,  over  the  shelves.  A  dredging  box, 
kitchen  pepper  box,  two-sized  graters,  two  small  sieves, 
a  bottle  brush,  a  vial  tunnel,  a  larger  tunnel,  a  quart, 
pint,  and  gill  measure,  a  gravy  strainer,  a  corkscrew, 
half  a  dozen  bowls,  as  many  cups,  saucers,  and  two 
small  pitchers.  On  the  top  of  the  shelves  put  the  spice 
mill,  and  the  balance  and  weights.  Fig.  16  shows  the 
best  kind.  In  one  of  the  drawers  of  the  shelves,  put 
needles,  thread,  twine,  wax,  and  bits  of  cotton  and  Hnen. 
In  the  other  drawer  put  the  Receipt  Book,  bits  of  paper 
and  pencil  for  writing  notes  and  memoranda,  an  account 
book,  and  a  pen  and  ink. 

In  the  table  drawer  which  is  not  subdivided,  put  these 
articles  : — Rolling-pin,  griddle  spad,  iron  meat  fork,  cof- 
fee stick,  mush  stick,  gridiron  scraper,  skewers,  saw  knife, 
chopping  knife,  egg  and  cake  beaters,  apple  corer,  pota- 
to beetle,  meat  hammer,  butter  spad,  whetstone. 

In  the  middle  drawer,  put,  in  the  front  part,  the  kitch- 
en knives  and  forks,  and  carver,  the  iron  spoons,  and 
other  spoons  used  in  the  kitchen.     In  the  centre  part  of 

22=*= 


258 


UTENSILS    AND    CONVENIENCES 


this  drawer  put  the  kitchen  table-cloths,  and  in  tlie  back 
part,  the  bags  for  all  kinds  of  family  uses,  the  pudding 
cloths,  jelly  strainer,  and  starch  strainers. 

In  the  other  drawer,  keep  in  one  division,  the  clean 
dish  cloths  and  towels  ;  in  another,  the  roller  and  tum- 
bler towels,  and  in  another  the  clean  lamp  towels,  and 
a  good  supply  of  holders  and  dust  cloths.  Let  the  cleav- 
er and  board  be  kept  on  the  top  of  the  shelves. 

By  this  arrangement  the  cook  will  find  every  article 
she  has  occasion  to  use  close  at  hand,  and  when  she 
washes  dishes,  her  towels  and  soap,  and  the  place  where 
to  lay  up  all  utensils  as  she  washes  them,  are  in  imme- 
diate reach.  No  one  knows,  without  trial,  how  many 
steps  are  saved,  and  how  much  confusion  and  waste 
avoided,  by  such  an  arrangement.  And  the  expense 
for  securing  it  is  a  trifle,  far  less  than  is  often  spent  for 
some  showy  but  useless  article  for  the  parlor. 

Another  arrangement  is  a  great  aid  to  system  and 
order.     Have  a  closet  made  as  represented  at  Fig.  13. 

Fig.  13. 


In  these  partitions  place  these  articles,  the  largest  in  the 
largest  part,  and  hanging  all  that  can  be  suspended,  on 
pegs.     A  large  and  small  clothes  frame.     A  skirt  board. 


FOR    HOUSEKEEPING.  259 

A  bosom  board.  A  press  board.  A  yard  stick.  Three 
or  four  brooms.  A  floor  brush  for  sweeping  oil  cloths  and 
painted  floors.  A  cobweb  brush.  A  long  brush  to  wash 
windows  outside.  A  carpet  stretcher.  A  whitewash 
brush.  A  long-handle  upright  dust  pan,  and  a  common 
dust  pan.     A  rag  bag.     Scrubbing  brushes. 

In  the  part  with  shelves,  place,  in  the  upper  partitions, 
in  one,  the  shoes,  brushes,  and  blacking.  In  another, 
articles  for  cleaning  brass  and  silver.  In  another,  spon- 
ges, rags,  and  stain  mixtures.  In  the  next  division,  be- 
low, put  the  lamps  and  candlesticks,  and  the  waiter 
containing  all  the  articles  used  in  cleaning  lamps. 

At  the  bottom  of  this  closet,  keep  a  box  containing  the 
following  articles  : — A  hammer,  a  small  saw,  three  sizes 
of  gimlets,  papers  of  tacks,  nails,  screws,  two  chisels,  a 
bedscrew,  a  carpet  claw. 

In  another  box,  keep  old  newspaper,  wrapping  paper, 
and  a  large  ball  of  twine. 

Have  a  clothes  broom  and  clothes  brush  hung  here, 
and  keep  the  table-rug  here. 

All  other  articles  in  common  use  are  to  be  kept  in  the 
pantry,  or  china  closet,  or  in  the  pot  closet. 

By  thus  arranging  articles  together  in  one  place,  and 
with  so  complete  an  assortment,  much  time  and  many 
steps  are  saved,  while  they  are  preserved  in  good  order. 
A  housekeeper  who  chooses  to  do  without  some  of  these 
conveniences,  and  spend  the  money  saved  in  parlor 
adornments,  has  a  right  to  do  so,  and  others  have  a  right 
to  think  she  in  this  shows  herself  deficient  in  good  sense. 

The  accompanying  draAvings  are  designed  to  show 
some  of  the  most  convenient  kitchen  and  other  utensils. 

Fig.  14. 


260 


UTENSILS   AND    CONVENIENCES 


Fig.  14  represents  a  Tin  Baker ^  or  Reflector.  The 
iron  hooks  running  out  in  front,  fit  it  to  use  with  grates. 
It  can  be  made  without  them,  or  made  so  that  they  can 
be  drawn  out  and  put  in.  This  bakes  bread,  cakes, 
apples,  &c.,  as  well  as  an  oven. 


FiK.  15. 


Fig.  15,  called  a  FooUnan^  is  made  of  brass,  or  sheet 
iron,  and  is  used  with  a  grate,  to  heat  irons,  and  for 
other  purposes. 

Fig.  16. 


Fig.  16  is  the  best  kind  of  Balaiices  to  use  in  weigh- 
ing cake,  and  for  other  purposes. 

Fig.  17. 


FOR   HOUSEKEEPING. 


261 


Fig.  17  is  a  tall-handle  Dust  Pan.  The  pan  is  half 
a  yard  in  length,  ten  inches  in  width,  and  the  handle 
two  feet  high,  and  set  up  perpendicularly.  It  is  a  very 
economical  arrangement  to  save  carpets  and  labor,  as  it 
is  set  down  in  spots,  and  the  common  broom  used  to 
throw  the  dust  and  rubbing  from  the  carpet  on  to  it,  in- 
stead of  brushing  them  all  across  the  carpet. 

Fig.  18. 


Fig.  18  is  a  Saw  Knife,  being  a  saw  on  one  side, 
and  a  knife  on  the  other.  It  is  very  useful  in  preparing 
meats» 


Fig.  19. 


Fig.  19  is  a  hemon  Squeezer.  At  A  is  a  concave 
place  with  holes  bored  through.  At  B  is  a  convex  pro- 
jection to  fit  into  the  concave  portion,  and  here  the  half 
lemon  is  put  to  be  squeezed. 


Fig.  21, 


Fig.  20. 


Fig.  20,  a  Case  for  lamphghters.  It  is  made  of  tin, 
like  a  tumbler,  with  a  lid  fastened  at  the  top  by  a  hinge. 
It  stands  in  the  parlor,  to  receive  the  remnants  of  ex- 
tinguished lamplighters  and  matches,  to  prevent  smoke 


262 


UTENSILS   AND   CONVENIENCES 


and  rubbish,  and  is  a  great  convenience.     It  can  be 
made  for  a  trifle  at  a  tinner's. 

Fig.  21  is  a  tin  Match  f^afe,  which  should  be  hung 
in  the  kitchen,  and  the  matches  be  kept  in  it.  It  is 
not  only  convenient,  but  important  for  safety. 

Fig.  ^. 


Fig.  22  is  a  Meat  Mallet,  or  beef  steak  hammer. 
It  is  a  block  of  wood  six  inches  square,  cut  in  checks, 
so  as  to  make  sharp  points  on  the  face,  and  is  used  to 
make  tough  steaks  more  tender. 

Fig.  23. 


Fig.  23  is  an  Egg  Beater.  It  is  made  of  iron  wire, 
fastened  to  a  tin  handle.  It  is  fine  for  beating  eggs  and 
cake,  and  saves  labor.  The  tin  should  be  six  inches 
long  and  an  inch  wide. 

Fig.  24. 


FOE,    HOUSEKEEPING. 


263 


Fig.  24  is  a  small  brush,  useful  to  dust  ledges  in  par- 
lors, and  the  frames  of  windows. 

Fig.  25. 


Fig.  25  is  an  Apple  Cover.  It  is  a  scroll  of  tin  sol- 
dered together,  about  seven  inches  long,  an  inch  in  di- 
ameter at  the  largest  end,  and  tapering  to  half  an  inch 
at  the  smaller  end,  where  it  is  cut  off  obHquely.  It  costs 
but  a  dime,  and  every  housekeeper  can  have  one  made 
at  a  tinner's,  and  needs  one. 


Fig.  26, 


Fig.  26  is  a  Gridiron  Scraper.  It  is  fitted  to  the 
bars  of  gridirons  that  have  scooped  bars.  It  has  a  con- 
vex scraper  on  one  end  of  the  transverse  piece  of  iron, 
and  a  concave  one  at  the  other,  so  as  to  fit  both  sides  of 
the  gridiron  bars. 


Fig.  27. 


Fig.  27  shows  the  best  shape  for  a  Rolling  Pin. 


264 


UTENSILS   AND   CONVENIENCES 
Fig.  28. 


Fig.  28  shows  a  Fish  Kettle,  with  the  strainer  drawn 
out  above  it.  It  should  be  large  enough  to  use  some- 
times for  boiUng  a  ham.  This  and  the  sauce  pans  fol- 
lowing can  be  used  on  a  cooking  stove,  or  be  set  on  a 
trivet  when  an  open  fire  is  used. 


Fig.  29. 


Fig.  29  is  a  Preserving  Kettle  with  a  cover. 

Fig.  30. 


Fig.  30  is  another  Preserving  Kettle,  without  a  cov- 
er. The  advantage  of  these  is,  that  they  are  shallow, 
so  that  the  fruit  will  not  need  to  be  piled.     The  cover 


FOR    IIOUSEKEEFLXG. 


265 


preserves  the  flavor  more  perfectly.     The  best  are  of 
copper  or  bell  metal.     Porcelain  ones  are  apt  to  crack. 


Fig.  31. 


Fig.  31  is  a  Cast  Iron  Sauce-pan^  lined  with  tin. 


Fig.  32. 


Fig.  32  is  a  Tin  Sauce-pan. 


FU.  33. 


Fig.  33  is  a  Copper  Sauce-pan. 

Every  housekeeper  needs  at  least  four  different  sizes 
of  sauce-pans.  The  copper  ones  are  the  best,  and  most 
durable.  The  iron  Uned  with  tin  the  next  best.  The 
tin  are  the  poorest. 


266 


UTENSILS    AND    CONVENIENCES 
Fig.  34. 


Fig.  34  is  a  Trivet^  and  is  very  useful  in  heating 
articles  over  coals  to  prevent  burning.  Three  or  four 
of  different  sizes  are  needed  with  an  open  fire.  Food 
cooked  for  the  sick  demands  them. 


Fig.  35. 


Fig.  35  is  a  Tin  Bonnet,  and  is  very  useful  to  keep 
articles  warm,  to  roast  apples,  to  warm  plates,  &c. 
Two  or  three  will  be  kept  in  constant  use  when  it  is 
found  how  useful  they  are. 

Fiff.  36. 


Fig.  36  is  a  brush  to  clean  bottles,  made  of  bristles 
twisted  into  wire. 

Fiff.  37. 


--ti 


FOR    HOUSEKEEPING. 


267 


Fig.  37  is  a  Tin  &afe.  It  is  to  be  made  five  feet 
liigh,  five  feet  wide,  a  division  in  the  middle,  and  tliree 
shelves  each  side.  Two  doors  in  front,  with  a  lock  and 
key,  and  all  the  panels  of  perforated  tin.  It  is  very  use- 
ful to  preserve  food  in  hot  weather,  and  to  protect  it  also 
from  mice. 

Refrigerators  are  very  excellent  to  keep  meat,  but- 
ter, milk,  and  cream,  during  hot  weather.  They  are 
made  in  a  superior  manner,  and  kept  for  sale,  but  the 
following  is  a  mode  of  securing  a  cheap  one. 

Take  a  barrel  and  bore  holes  in  the  bottom.  Lay 
some  small  sticks  crossing,  and  set  a  half  barrel  within, 
with  holes  bored  in  the  bottom.  Nail  list  along  the 
edge  of  each,  and  make  a  cover  to  lay  on  each,  so  that 
the  cover  resting  on  the  list  will  make  it  very  close. 
Then  put  ice  into  the  inner  one,  and  the  water  will  fil- 
ter through  the  holes  in  the  bottom-,  and  while  the  ice  is 
preserved,  it  will  make  the  inner  half  barrel  a  perfect  re- 
frigerator. Those  who  buy  ice  every  day  will  find  this 
a  great  convenience  if  they  have  no  other  refrigerator. 


Fig.  38  represents  an  excellent  pattern  for  a  Sofa 
Bedstead^  such  as  a  common  carpenter  can  make.  Its 
dimensions  are  as  follows  : — Length,  six  feet.  Widtli, 
two  feet  two  inches.  Height  of  the  seat  from  the  floor, 
fifteen  inches.  Heis^ht  of  the  back  and  sides  from  the 
seat,  eighteen  inches.  The  seat  is  a  frame  with  slats  to 
be  laid  across  lengthioise^  as  this  gives  more  ease  than 
crosswise  slats.  The  back  is  a  frame,  with  slats  cross- 
wise, with  two  frame  Icffs,  as  at  A  and  jB.  swinging  on 


268  ARTICLES   AND    CONVENIENCES 

hinges,  and  when  pulled  out  they  serve  to  support  the 
back.  The  back  is  hooked  up  to  the  sides,  and  when 
laid  down  rests  on  the  frame  legs  A  B.  These  legs  turn 
with  pintles,  or  wood  hinges.  The  ends  of  the  sofa 
have  grooved  slides  for  the  head  and  foot  boards  to  slide 
in,  as  at  C  C,  and  have  brown  linen  nailed  on  both  in- 
side and  outside,  on  which  to  fasten  the  sofa  cover.  Two 
thick  cushions  of  hair,  or  of  moss  and  cotton,  are  made, 
one  to  serve  for  the  seat,  one  to  set  up  against  the  back. 
These  serve  for  the  bed  when  the  back  is  laid  down.  A 
frill  is  fastened  around  the  frame  of  the  seat,  and  the 
box  D,  underneath,  is  to  hold  the  bedclothes,  and  runs 
on  castors,  as  also  does  the  sofa. 

Fig.  39. 


Fig.  39  is  a  very  convenient  and  cheap  article  for  a 
light  seat  to  use  in  a  chamber,  or  in  gardening.  It  is 
made  just  like  a  cross  bedstead  or  cot,  with  a  bit  of  stair 
carpeting  used  as  the  seat.  Handles  fastened  to  it  make 
it  more  convenient  to  carry  about,  as  it  can  be  doubled 
up,  and  taken  in  one  hand.  These  are  the  dimensions : 
Sticks  for  the  seat,  one  foot  long.  Sticks  for  the  legs,  one 
foot  six  inches  long. 


Fiff.  40. 


Fig.  40  is  an  article  for  a  bedchamber,  and  remark- 
ably convenient  for  dressing  the  feet.  In  one  drawer 
are  kept  stockings  of  all  sorts,  and  in  the  other  shoes  ; 
it  has  a  cushion  and  handles,  and  is  set  on  castors.  It 
is  to  stand  by  the  bedside,  and  a  person  can  change  the 
dress  of  the  feet  with  the  greatest  comfort  and  conve- 
nience. These  are  the  dimensions : — Twenty  inches 
square  and  tweh^e  inches  high  from  castors  to  cushion. 


FOR    HOUSEKEEPING.  269 

Housekeepers  are  much  troubled  to  keep  dippers  in 
Older.  The  only  sure  mode  is  to  have  two  made  of 
copper^  with  iron  handles  fastened  on  very  tight,  one  to 
hold  a  pint,  and  another  two  or  three  quarts.  These 
will  never  rust  or  leak,  and  may  be  kept  for  years.  Let 
them  be  hung  by  the  fire.  Keep  trivets  on  which  to 
set  kettles  over  coals,  so  as  not  to  burn  the  articles  while 
cooking. 

The  most  successful  mode  of  securing  the  proper  care 
of  utensils,  is  to  make  a  definite  agreement  with  the 
cook,  on  hiring  her,  that  after  dinner,  she  shall  examine 
kitchen,  cellar,  and  pantjy,  and  wash  every  article  that 
needs  cleansing ;  and  that  once  a  month  she  shall  scour 
all  that  need  scouring.  Then,  at  least  once  a  week, 
and  once  a  month,  the  housekeeper  should  examine  her- 
self whether  this  agreement  is  fulfilled.  - 


CHAPTER  XXX. 

SUGGESTIONS    IN    REGARD    TO    HIRED    SERVICE. 

There  is  no  subject  on  which  young  housekeepers 
need  wisdom  and  instruction  more,  than  in  regard  to  the 
management  of  domestics^  and  therefore  some  far- 
ther suggestions  will  be  offered,  in  addition  to  those  pre- 
sented in  the  Domestic  Economy. 

Success  in  the  management  of  domestics  very  much 
depends  upon  the  manners  of  a  housekeeper  towards 
them.  And  here,  two  extremes  are  to  be  avoided.  One 
is  a  severe  and  imperious  mode  of  giving  orders  and  find- 
ing fault,  wdiich  is  inconsistent  both  with  lady-Uke  good 
breeding,  and  with  a  truly  amiable  character.  Few  do- 
mestics, especially  American  domestics,  wdll  long  submit 
to  it,  and  many  a  good  one  has  been  lost,  simply  by  the 
influence  of  this  unfortunate  manner. 

The  other  extreme  is  apt  to  result  from  the  great  dif- 


270  SUGGESTIONS    IN    REGARD 

ficulty  of  retaining  good  domestics.  In  cases  where  this 
is  experienced,  there  is  a  habiiity  of  becoming  so  fearful 
of  displeasing  one  who  is  found  to  be  good,  that,  imper- 
ceptibly, the  relation  is  changed,  and  the  domestic  be- 
comes the  mistress.  A  housekeeper  thus  described  this 
change  in  one  whom  she  hired  :  '•  The  first  year  she 
was  an  excellent  servant;  the  second  year,  she  was  a 
kind  mistress  ;  the  third  year,  she  was  an  intolerable  t}^- 
rant !" 

There  is  no  domestic  so  good  that  she  will  not  be  in- 
jured by  perceiving  that,  through  dependance  upon  her, 
and  a  fear  of  losing  her  services,  the  mistress  of  the  fam^- 
ily  gives  up  her  proper  authority  and  control. 

The  happy  medium  is  secured,  by  a  course  of  real 
kindness  in  manner  and  treatment,  attended  with  the 
manifestation  of  a  calm  determination,  that  the  plans 
and  will  of  the  hoiisekeejjer,  and  not  of  the  domestic, 
shall  control  the  family  arrangements. 

When  a  good  domestic  first  begins  to  insist  that  her 
views  and  notions  shall  be  regarded,  rather  than  those 
of  the  housekeeper,  a  kind  but  firm  stand  must  be  taken. 
A  frank  conversation  should  be  sought,  at  a  time  when 
nothing  has  occurred  to  ruffle  the  temper  on  eitlier  side. 
Then  the  housekeeper  can  inquire  Avhat  would  be  the 
view  taken  of  this  matter  in  case  the  domestic  herself 
should  become  a  housekeeper,  and  hire  a  person  to  help 
her ;  and  when  the  matter  is  set  before  her  mind  in  this 
light,  let  tlie  "  golden  rule"  be  applied,  and  ask  her 
whether  she  is  not  disposed  to  render  to  her  present  em- 
ployer what  she  herself  would  ask  from  a  domestic  in 
similar  circumstances. 

Much  trouble  of  this  kind  is  saved  by  hiring  persons 
on  trial,  in  order  to  ascertain  whether  they  are  willing 
and  able  to  do  the  work  of  the  family  in  the  manner 
which  the  housekeeper  wishes  ;  and  in  this  case,  such 
written  cards  as  have  been  exhibited  in  previous  pages 
can  be  read,  or  some  member  of  the  family  can  go  around 
for  a  day  or  tw^o,  and  show  how  everything  is  to  be  done. 

There  is  no  department  of  domestic  life  where  a  wo- 
man's temper  and  patience  are  so  sorely  tried,  as  in  the 


TO    HIRED    SERVICE.  271 

incompetence  and  constant  changes  of  domestics.  And 
therefore,  there  is  no  place  where  a  reasonable  and  Chris- 
tian woman  will  be  more  watchful,  careful,  and  conscien- 
tious. 

The  cultivation  oi  patience  will  be  much  promoted, 
by  keeping  in  mind  these  considerations  in  reference  to 
the  inco'inpetence  and  other  failings  of  those  who  are 
hired. 

In  the  first  place,  consider  that  the  great  object  of  life 
to  us  is  not  enjoyment^  but  \hQ  formation  of  a  right 
character  ;  that  such  a  character  cannot  be  formed,  ex- 
cept by  discipline,  and  that  the  trials  and  difficulties  of 
domestic  life,  if  met  in  a  proper  spirit  and  manner,  will, 
in  the  end,  prove  blessings  rather  than  evils,  by  secu- 
ring a  measure  of  elevation,  dignity,  patience,  self-control, 
and  benevolence,  that  could  be  gained  by  no  other 
methods.  The  comfort  gained  by  these  virtues,  and  the 
rewards  they  bring,  both  in  this  and  in  a  future  life,  are 
a  thousand-fold  richer  than  the  easy,  indolent  life  of  in- 
dulgence, which  we  should  choose  for  ourselves. 

In  the  next  place,  instead  of  allowing  the  mind  to 
dwell  on  the.  faults  of  those  who  minister  to  our  com- 
fort and  convenience,  cultivate  a  habit  of  making  every 
possible  benevolent  allowance  and  palliation.  Say  to 
yourself — "  Poor  girl !  she  has  never  been  instructed, 
either  by  parents  or  employers.  Nobody  has  felt  any  in- 
terest in  the  formation  of  her  habits,  or  kindly  sought  to 
rectify  her  faults.  Why  should  I  expect  her  to  do  those 
things  well  which  no  one  has  taken  any  care  to  teach 
her  ?  She  has  no  parent  or  friend  now  to  aid  her  but 
myself  Let  me  bear  her  faults  patiently,  and  kindly 
try  to  cure  them." 

If  a  woman  will  cultivate  the  spirit  expressed  in  such 
language,  if  slie  will  benevolently  seek  the  best  good  of 
those  she  employs,  if  she  will  interest  herself  in  giving 
them  instruction,  if  they  need  it,  and  good  books  to  read 
if  they  are  already  qualified  to  understand  them,  if  she 
will  manifest  a  desire  to  have  them  made  comfortable  in 
the  kitchen,  and  in  their  chambers,  she  certainly  will 
receive  her  reward,  and  that  in  manv  wavs.     She  yy\\\ 


272  SUGGESTIONS    IN    REGARD 

be  improving  her  own  character,  she  will  set  a  good  ex- 
ample to  her  family,  and  in  the  end,  she  will  do  some- 
thing, and  in  some  cases  much^  to  improve  the  charac- 
ter and  services  of  those  whom  she  hires.  And  the  good 
done  in  this  way  goes  down  from  generation  to  genera- 
tion, and  goes  also  into  the  eternal  world,  to  be  known 
and  rejoiced  in,  when  every  earthly  good  has  come  to 
an  end. 

It  is  sometimes  the  case,  that  the  constant  change  of 
domestics,  and  the  liability  thus  to  have  dishonest  ones, 
makes  it  needful  to  keep  stores  under  lock  and  key. 
This  measure  is  often  very  offensive  to  those  who  are 
hired,  as  it  is  regarded  by  them  as  an  evidence  both  of 
closeness  and  of  siisjncion  of  their  honesty. 

In  such  cases,  it  is  a  good  plan,  when  first  making  an 
agreement  with  a  domestic,  to  state  the  case  in  this  way. 
That  you  have  had  dishonest  persons  in  the  family,  and 
that  when  theft  is  committed,  it  is  always  a  cause  of  dis- 
quiet to  honest  persons,  because  it  exposes  them  to  sus- 
picion. You  can  then  state  your  reasons  as  two-fold : 
one  to  protect  yourself  from  pilfering  when  you  take  en- 
tire strangers,  and  the  other  is  to  protect  honest  persons 
from  being  suspected.  When  the  matter  is  thus  pre- 
sented, at  first  hiring  a  person,  no  offence  will  be  taken 
afterwards. 

In  some  portions  of  our  country,  the  great  influx  of 
foreigners  of  another  language  and  another  faith,  and 
the  ready  entrance  they  find  as  domestics  into  American 
families,  impose  peculiar  trials  and  peculiar  duties  on 
American  housekeepers.  In  reference  to  such,  it  is  no 
less  our  interest  than  our  duty  to  cultivate  a  spirit  of 
kindness,  patience,  and  sympathy. 

Especially  should  this  be  manifested  in  reference  to 
their  religion.  However  wrong,  or  however  pernicious 
we  may  regard  their  system  of  faith,  we  should  remem- 
ber, that  they  have  been  trained  to  believe  that  it  is 
what  God  commands  them  to  obey,  and  so  long  as  they 
do  believe  this,  we  should  respect  them  for  their  conscien- 
tious scruples,  and  not  try  to  tempt  them  to  do  what 
they  suppose  to  be  wrong.     If  we  lead  an  ignorant  and 


TO    HIRED    SERVICE.  273 

feeble  mind  to  do  what  it  believes  to  be  wrong,  in  regard 
to  the  most  sacred  of  all  duties,  those  owed  to  God,  how 
can  w^e  expect  them  to  be  faithful  to  us  ? 

The  only  lawful  way  to  benefit  those  whom  we  re- 
gard as  in  an  error,  is,  not  to  tempt  them  to  do  what 
they  believe  to  be  wrong,  but  to  give  them  the  light  of 
knowledge^  so  that  they  may  be  qualified  to  judge  for 
themselves.  And  the  way  to  make  them  willing  to  re- 
ceive this  light,  is  to  he  kind  to  them.  We  should  take 
care  that  their  feelings  and  prejudices  should  in  no  way 
be  abused,  and  that  they  be  treated  as  we  should  wish 
to  be,  if  thrown  as  strangers  into  a  strange  land,  among 
a  people  of  different  customs  and  faith,  and  aw^ay  from 
parents,  home,  and  friends. 

Remember  that  our  Master,  who  is  in  heaven,  espe- 
cially claims  to  be  the  God  of  the  widow,  the  fatherless, 
and  the  stranger^  and  has  commanded,  "If  a  stranger 
sojourn  with  you  in  your  land,  ye  shall  not  vex  him,  but 
the  stranger  that  dwelleth  among  you  shall  be  unto  you 
as  one  born  among  you,  and  thou  shalt  love  him  as  thy- 
self" 

There  is  one  rule,  which  every  housekeeper  will  find 
of  incalculable  value,  not  only  in  the  case  of  domestics, 
but  in  the  management  of  children,  and  that  is,  never  to 
find  fault  at  the  time  that  a  loroiig  thing  is  done. 
"Wait  until  you  are  unexcited  yourself,  and  until  the  vexa- 
tion of  the  offender  is  also  past,  and  then,  when  there  is 
danger  of  a  similar  o^qucq^  foreioarn^  and  point  out  the 
evils  already  done  for  want  of  proper  care  in  this  respect. 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 

ON    THE    STYLE    OF    LIVING    AND    EXPENSES. 

This  work  is  designed  prima7^ili/  for  young  and  in- 
experienced housekeepers,  and  the  following  suggestions 


274  THE    STYLE    OF    LIVING 

are  presented  as  the  advice  of  many  judicious  and  expe- 
rienced matrons  in  our  country,  to  their  young  country- 
women, who  are  to  follow  them  in  the  trying  duties 
of  housekeeping. 

Nothing  in  this  country  is  a  greater  source  of  suffer- 
ing to  housekeepers,  than  had  taste  in  their  style  of  liv- 
ing and  expenditure.  Good  taste  is  that  nice  percep- 
tion of  fitness  and  propriety  which  leads  a  person  to  say 
and  do  whatever  is  suitable  and  ajypi^opriate  in  all  pos- 
sible circumstances.  Such  good  taste  is  ordinarily  the 
result  of  good  feelings  and  well-cultivated  mind,  and  an 
acquaintance  with  the  world.  Yet  this  correct  taste  is 
sometimes  found  in  minds  that  have  enjoyed  but  few 
advantages,  but  by  nature  are  endowed  with  refined 
feelings  and  good  common  sense. 

Where  this  good  taste  exists,  it  leads  a  woman  tow^ish 
to  have  her  house,  furniture,  and  style  of  living,  in  all  its 
parts,  exactly  conformed  to  her  means^  and  her  situa- 
tion. If  she  is  not  rich,  she  will  not  wish  to  have  a 
house,  or  furniture,  or  dress  like  those  wdio  are  rich,  and 
will  find  a  pride  and  pleasure  in  making  a  small  house, 
plain  furniture,  simple  dress,  and  an  economical  table, 
so  neat,  and  orderly,  and  comfortable,  and  tasteful,  as  to 
ensure  comfort  and  satisfaction  to  all  around  her.  If 
she  cannot  command  good  domestics,  nor  live  comforta- 
bly in  a  house,  and  with  furniture  ^vhich  requires  them, 
she  w^U  aim  to  alter  the  style  of  her  establishment,  and 
adopt  one  which  can  be  thoroughly  and  successfully 
canied  out  by  such  domestics  as  she  can  obtain. 

Where  good  domestics  are  scarce,  it  is  a  very  great 
mistake  to  attempt  to  live  in  a  large  house.  The  la- 
bor of  house  cleaning,  and  w^indow  cleaning,  the  sweep- 
ing, the  care  of  furniture,  and  jnany  other  items  of  la- 
bor, are  mucli  increased  by  enlarging  the  size  of  the 
house.  In  the  country,  where  good  lielp  is  scarce,  a 
house  on  the  plan  of  one  of  the  cottages  drawn  in  the 
Domestic  Economy,  with  bed  j^resses  instead  of  cham- 
bers, will  be  found  to  be  a  great  saving  of  labor,  and  the 
expense  that  might  be  incurred  in  building,  furnishing, 
and  taking  care  of  chambers,  can  be  laid  out  in  making 


AND    EXPENSES.  275 

conveniences  for  carrying  water,  and  furnishing  the 
kitchen  properly.  The  drawings  for  this  purpose  in  the 
Domestic  Economy  will  be  found  useful  in  this  respect. 

In  cities,  nothing  is  more  pernicious  to  a  housekeeper's 
health,  than  going  up  and  down  stairs,  and  a  woman 
who  has  good  taste  and  good  sense,  will  not,  for  the  sake 
of  shoio,  keep  two  parlors  on  the  ground  floor  and  her 
nursery  above  and  kitchen  below.  One  of  these  parlors 
will  be  taken  for  her  nursery  and  bedroom,  even  should 
all  her  acquaintance  wonder  how  it  can  be,  that  a 
wife  and  mother  should  think  her  health  and  duties  of 
more  importance  than  two  dark  parlors  sluit  up  for 
company. 

When  a  woman  has  good  sense  and  good  taste,  these 
are  some  of  the  things  she  will  not  do. 

She  will  not  be  so  anxious  to  obtain  admission  into 
any  circle  as  to  seek  it  by  a  conformity  to  its  fashions, 
which  Avill  involve  her  in  labor,  or  expenses  that  lessen 
domestic  comfort,  or  are  inappropriate  to  lier  income. 

She  will  not  be  particularly  anxious  to  know  what  the 
fashion  is,  in  dress  and  furniture,  nor  give  up  any  im- 
portant duty  or  pursuit  to  conform  to  it.  INor  will  she 
be  disturbed  if  found  deficient  in  these  particulars,  nor 
disturb  others  by  making  apologies,  or  giving  reasons. 

She  will  not,  while  all  that  is  in  sight  to  visiters,  or 
to  out-door  observers,  is  in  complete  order,  and  in  ex- 
pensive style,  have  her  underclothing,  her  bedroom,  her 
kitchen,  and  her  nursery  ill  furnished,  and  all  in  disor- 
der. She  will  not  attempt  to  show  that  she  is  genteel, 
and  belongs  to  tlie  aristocracy,  by  a  display  of  profusion, 
by  talking  as  if  she  w^as  indiiferent  i6  the  cost  of  things, 
or  by  seeming  ashamed  to  economize.  These  things 
are  marks  of  a  vulgar,  unrefined  person,  that  fancies 
that  it  is  money ^  and  not  character,  that  makes  the 
lady.  And  by  persons  of  education  and  refinement, 
such  things  are  always  regarded  as  indicating  a  vulgar, 
uncultivated  mind. 

Let  a  young  housekeeper,  then,  adopt  these  maxims 
as  her  guide  in  regulating  the  style  of  her  dress,  furni- 
ture, table,  and  the  size  of  her  house. 


276  WORDS    OF    COMFORT    FOR 

Do  not  begin  housekeeping  in  the  style  in  which  you 
should  end  it,  but  begin  on  a  plain  and  small  scale,  and 
increase  your  expenditures  as  your  experience  and  means 
are  increased. 

Be  determined  to  live  within  your  income,  and  in 
such  a  style  that  you  can  secure  time  to  improve  your 
own  mind,  and  impart  some  of  your  own  advantages  to 
others. 

Try  to  secure  symmetry  in  your  dress,  furniture,  style 
of  living,  and  charities.  That  is,  do  not  be  profuse  in 
one  direction,  and  close  and  pinching  in  another. 

Cultivate  a  taste  for  intellectual  pleasures,  home 
pleasures,  and  the  pleasures  of  benevolence. 

Have  some  regular  plan  for  the  employment  of  your 
time,  and  in  this  plan  have  chief  reference  to  making 
home  pleasant  to  your  husband  and  children.  It  will 
save  them  from  a  thousand  snares,  and  you  from  many 
sorrows. 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

WORDS    OF    COMFORT    FOR    A    DISCOURAGED    HOUSEKEEPER. 

There  is  no  doubt  of  the  fact,  that  American  house- 
keepers have  far  greater  trials  and  difficulties  to  meet 
than  those  of  any  other  nation.  And  it  is  probable  that 
man}^  of  those  who  may  read  over  the  methods  of  thrift 
and  economy  adopted  by  some  of  the  best  housekeepers 
in  our  land,  and  detailed  in  this  work,  will  with  a 
sigh  exclaim,  that  it  is  impossible  for  them  even  to  at- 
tempt any  such  plans. 

Others  may  be  stimulated  by  the  advice  and  exam 
pies  presented,  and  may  start  off  with  nuich  hope  and 
courage,  to  carry  out  a  plan  of  great  excellence  and  ap- 
propriateness, and  after  trying  a  while,  will  become  dis- 


A    DISCOURAGED    HOUSEKEEPER.  277 

couraged  by  the  thousand  obstacles  in  their  way,  and 
give  up  in  despair. 

A  still  greater  number  will  like  their  own  way  best, 
and  think  it  is  folly  to  attempt  to  change. 

For  those  who  wish  they  could  become  systematic,  neat, 
and  thorough  housekeepers,  and  would  like  to  follow  out 
successfully  the  suggestions  found  in  this  work,  and  for 
those  who  have  tried,  or  will  try,  and  find  themselvp 
baffled  and  discouraged,  these  words  of  comfort  are 
fered. 

Perhaps  you  find  yourself  encompassed  by  such  sort 
of  trials  as  these.  Your  house  is  inconvenient,  or  desti- 
tute of  those  facilities  for  doing  work  well  which  you 
need,  and  you  cannot  command  the  means  to  supply 
these  deficiencies.  Your  domestics  are  so  imperfectly 
qualified  that  they  never  can  do  anything  just  right, 
unless  you  stand  by  and  attend  to  everything  yourself, 
and  you  cannot  be  present  in  parlor,  nursery,  and  kitch- 
en all  at  once.  Perhaps  you  are  frequently  left  without 
any  cook,  or  without  a  chambermaid,  and  sometimes 
without  any  hands  but  your  own  to  do  the  work,  and 
there  is  constant  jostling  and  change  from  this  cause. 
And  perhaps  you  cannot  get  supplies,  either  from  gar- 
den or  market,  such  as  you  need,  and  all  your  calcula- 
tions fail  in  that  direction. 

And  perhaps  your  children  are  sickly,  and  rob  you 
of  rest  by  night,  or  your  health  is  so  poor  that  you  feel 
no  energy,  or  spirits  to  make  exertions.  And  perhaps 
you  never  have  had  any  training  in  domestic  affairs,  and 
cannot  understand  how  to  work  yourself,  nor  how  to  di- 
rect others.  And  when  you  go  for  aid  to  experienced 
housekeepers,  or  cookery  books,  you  are  met  by  such 
sort  of  directions  as  these  :  "  Take  a  finch  of  this,  and  a 
little  of  that,  and  considerable  of  the  other,  and  cook 
them  till  they  are  done  about  right. ''^  And  when  you  can- 
not succeed  in  following  such  indefinite  instructions,  you 
find  your  neighbors  and  husband  wondering  how  it  is, 
that  when  you  have  one,  two,  or  three  domestics,  there 
should  be  so  much  difficulty  about  housekeeping,  and 
such  constant  trouble,  and  miscalculation,  and  mistake. 

21 


278  WORDS    OF    C03IF0RT    FOR 

And  then,  perhaps,  you  lose  your  patience  and  your  tem- 
per, and  iDlame  others,  and  others  blame  you,  and  so 
everything  seems  to  be  in  a  snarl. 

Now  the  first  thing  to  be  said  for  your  comfort  is,  that 
you  really  have  great  trials  to  meet ;  trials  that  entitle 
you  to  pity  and  sympathy,  while  it  is  the  fault  of  others 
more  than  your  own,  that  5^ou  are  in  this  very  painful 
and  difficult  situation.  You  have  been  as  cruelly  treat- 
ed as  the  Israelites  were  by  Pharaoh,  when  he  demand- 
ed bricks  without  furnishing  the  means  to  make  them. 

You  are  like  a  young,  inexperienced  lad,  who  is  re- 
quired to  superintend  all  the  complicated  machinery  of 
a  manufactory,  which  he  never  was  trained  to  under- 
stand, and  on  penalty  of  losing  reputation,  health,  and 
all  he  values  most. 

Neither  your  parents,  teachers,  or  husband  have  train- 
ed you  for  the  place  you  fill,  nor  furnished  you  Avith  the 
knowledge  or  assistance  needed  to  enable  you  to  meet 
all  the  complicated  and  untried  duties  of  your  lot.  A 
young  woman  who  has  never  had  the  care  of  a  cliild, 
never  done  housework,  never  learned  the  niunberless 
processes  that  are  indispensable  to  keep  domestic  affairs 
in  regular  order,  never  done  anything  but  attend  to  books, 
drawing,  and  music,  at  school,  and  visiting  and  com- 
pany after  she  left  school,  such  an  one  is  as  unprepared 
to  take  charge  of  a  nui'sery,  kitchen,  and  family  estab- 
lishment, as  she  is  to  take  charge  of  a  man-of-war. 
And  the  chief  blame  rests  with  those  Avho  placed  her  so 
un])repared  in  such  trying  circumstances.  Therefore, 
you  have  a  riglit  to  feel  that  a  large  part  of  these  evils 
are  more  your  misfortune  than  your  faidt,  andihat  they 
entitle  you  to  synipathy  rather  than  blame. 

The  next  word  of  comfort  is,  the  assurance  that  you 
can  do  every  one  of  your  duties,  and  do  them  well,  and 
the  follov/ing  is  the  method  by  wliicli  you  can  do  it. 
In  the  first  place,  make  up  5"our  mind  that  it  never  is 
your  duty  to  do  anything  more  tlian  you  c«/?,  or  in  any 
better  manner  than  the  best  you  can.  And  whenever 
you  have  done  the  best  you  can,  you  have  done  icelly 


A    DISCOURAGED    HOUSEKEEPER.  279 

and  it  is  all  that  man  should  require,  and  certainly  all 
that  your  Heavenly  Father  does  require. 

The  next  thing  is,  for  you  to  make  out  an  inventory 
of  all  the  things  that  need  to  be  done,  in  your  whole  es- 
tablishment. Then  calculate  what  things  you  find  you 
cannot  do,  and  strike  them  off  the  list,  as  what  are  not 
among  your  duties.  Of  those  that  remain,  select  a  cer- 
tain number  that  you  think  yon  can  do  exactly  as  they 
need  to  be  done,  and  among  these  be  sure  that  you  put 
the  making  of  good  bread.  This  every  housekeeper 
can  do,  if  she  will  only  determine  to  do  it. 

Make  a  selection  of  certain  things  that  you  will  y?er- 
severe  in  having  done  as  well  as  they  can  be  6/o?ze,  and 
let  these  be  only  so  many  as  you  feel  sure  you  can  suc- 
ceed in  attempting.  Then  make  up  your  mind  that  all 
the  rest  must  go  along  as  they  do,  until  you  get  more 
time,  strength,  and  experience,  to  increase  the  list  of 
things  that  you  determine  shall  always  be  well  done. 

By  this  course,  you  will  have  the  comfort  of  feehi 
that  in  so7ne  respects  you  are  as  good  a  housekeeper  as, 
you  can  be,  while  there  will  be  a  cheering  progress  in 
gaining  on  all  that  portion  of  your  affairs,  that  are  left 
at  loose  ends.     You  wnll  be  able  to  measure  a  gradual 
advance,  and  be  encouraged  by  success.     Many  house- 
keepers ifail  entirely,  by  expecting  to  do  everything  well 
at  first,  when  neither  their  knowledge  or  strength 
adequate,  and  so  they  fail  everywhere,  and  finally  give  ». 
in  despair. 

Are  you  not  only  a  housekeeper,  but  a  mother  7  Oh, 
sacred  and  beautiful  name  !  how  many  cares  and  res- 
ponsibilities at-e  associated  with  it !  And  how^  many  el- 
evating and  sublime  anticipations  and  hopes  are  given 
to  inspire,  and  to  cheer  !  You  are  training  young  minds 
w^hose  plastic  texture  will  receive  and  retain  every  im- 
pression you  make,  wdio  will  imitate  your  feehngs,  tastes, 
habits,  and  opinions,  and  who  will  transmit  what  they 
receive  from  you  to  their  children,  to  pass  again  to  the 
next  generation,  and  then  to  the  next,  until  a  ichole  na- 
tion will  have  received  its  character  and  destiny  from 
your  hands  !     No  imperial  queen  ever  stood  in  a  more 


280  FRIENDLY    COUNSELS 

sublime  and  responsible  position  than  you  now  occupy, 
in  the  eye  of  Him  who  reads  the  end  from  the  begin- 
ning, and  who  is  appointing  all  the  trials  and  discipline 
of  your  lot,  not  for  purposes  which  are  visible  to  your 
limited  ken,  but  in  view  of  all  the  consequences  that  are 
to  result  from  the  character  which  you  form,  and  are  to 
traiismit  to  your  posterity  ! 

Remember,  then,  that  you  have  a  Father  in  heaven, 
who  sympathizes  in  all  your  cares,  pities  your  griefs, 
makes  allowances  for  your  defects,  and  is  endeavoring 
by  trials,  as  well  as  by  blessin2:s,  to  fit  you  for  the  right 
fulfilment  of  your  high  and  holy  calling. 


CHAPTER    XXXIII. 

FRIENDLY    COUNSELS    FOR    DOMESTICS. 

My  friends,  you  fill  a  very  important  and  respectable 
station.  The  duties  committed  to  you  by  God  are  very 
apt  to  be  considered  of  small  account,  but  they  are  in- 
deed most  solemn  and  important. 

On  your  faithfulness  and  kindness  depends  the  com- 
fort of  a  whole  family,  and  on  you  often  depends  the 
character  and  happiness  of  a  whole  flock  of  children. 
If  you  do  your  part  faithfully  in  assisting  the  mother  to 
carry  forward  her  plans,  she  will  be  able  to  train  them 
aright.  If  you  fail  to  perform  your  part,  she  will  be  per- 
plexed, discouraged,  and  disabled,  and  everything  will 
go  wrong. 

Every  person  finds  troubles  and  trials  in  their  lot,  and 
so  you  must  find  them  in  yours.  But  trials  are  sent  by 
God,  not  for  evil,  but  for  good,  so  that  we,  by  patiently 
bearing  them,  and  by  striving  to  improve  under  them, 
may  grow  wiser  and  better,  and  thus  more  liappy  than 
we  could  be  without  them. 

Whenever,  therefore,  anything  vexes,  or  troubles  you, 


FOR    DOMESTICS.  281 

comfort  yourselves  by  thinking  that  it  is  designed  for 
your  good,  and  reap  at  least  one  benefit,  by  bearing  it 
with  patience  and  cheerfulness. 

In  all  your  deaUngs  with  those  who  employ  you,  try 
to  follow  "  the  golden  rule^^  and  do  by  them  as  you 
will  wish  to  have  others  do  by  you,  when  you  are  the 
mistress  of  a  family,  and  hire  others  to  help  you. 

Do  you  find  that  many  things  are  uncomfortable  and 
unpleasant  in  your  present  lot?  Remember  that  you 
never  can  find  a  place  in  this  world  where  everything 
will  be  just  as  you  want  it,  and  that  it  is  a  bad  thing 
for  you,  as  well  as  for  your  employers,  to  keep  roving 
about  from  one  place  to  another.  Stay  where  you  are, 
and  try  to  make  those  things  that  trouble  you  more  tol- 
erable, by  enduring  them  with  patience.  Do  not  fret 
and  be  angry  at  your  emploj^ers  when  they  oppose  your 
wishes,  but  wait  until  you  feel  in  better  humor,  and 
then  tell  them  what  troubles  you,  and  w^hat  you  wish 
they  would  alter,  and  in  a  kind  and  respectful  way,  and 
you  will  be  ten  times  more  likely  to  gain  what  you  de- 
sire. 

Do  you  think  that  you  are  found  fault  with  too  much, 
and  that  your  employer  is  so  hard  to  please  that  you 
wish  to  change  for  another  ?  Perhaps  you  do  not  know 
how  often  you  do  things  different  from  what  she  wishes, 
when  she  does  not  complain.  Perhaps  she  tells  you 
only  just  what  she  thinks  she  ought  to  do,  for  your  good. 
Perhaps  she  does  not  know  that  she  does  find  fault  a 
great  deal,  or  that  her  manner  is  an  unpleasant  one. 
Perhaps  she  has  a  great  many  cares  and  troubles  that 
you  know  not  of,  which  try  her  nerves,  and  make  her 
feel  very  irritable,  and  thus  speak  hastily  when  she  does 
not  intend  it. 

Be  patient  with  her  failings,  if  you  think  you  see  any, 
just  as  you  wish  to  have  her  bear  Avith  your  faults,  w4ien 
they  trouble  her.  If  you  find  your  patience  faihng,  it 
may  be  well  in  some  cases,  to  say  to  your  employer,  that 
you  should  do  better,  if  she  would  find  fault  less,  and 
praise  you  more  when  you  do  well.     But  never  say  any- 

24* 


232  FRIENDLY    COUNSELS    FOR    DOMESTICS. 

thing  of  this  kind  when  you  are  angry  yourself,  or  when 
you  see  that  she  is  displeased. 

Be  careful,  in  all  your  dealings  with  children,  always 
to  speak  the  truths  and  never  let  them  hear  from  you 
any  filthy  or  wicked  language.  Never  promise  to  do  a 
thing  and  then  break  j^our  word,  for  this  teaches  them 
to  break  promises.  Never  tell  them  frightful  stories,  or 
try  to  make  them  mind  you  by  saying  what  is  not  true. 
Never  help  them  conceal  what  they  have  done  that  is 
wrong,  but  try  to  persuade  them  to  confess  their  faults. 

Never  take  the  least  thing  that  does  not  belong  to  you, 
and  never  tempt  children  to  give  you  w^hat  does  not  be- 
long to  them. 

Never  tell  tales  out  of  the  famil)^,  nor  tell  to  your  em- 
ployers the  bad  things  you  have  seen,  or  heard  in  other 
families,  for  this  is  mean  and  ungenerous. 

Do  not  spend  your  money  for  useless  and  expensive 
things,  but  learn  to  be  economical  and  prudent,  that  you 
may  be  preparing  to  be  a  good  housekeeper,  wife,  and 
mother,  if  ever  you  have  a  family  of  your  own. 

Do  not  form  a  habit  of  roaming  about  to  see  company, 
but  be  indirstrious  in  hours  not  employed  for  those  who 
hire  you,  in  mending  and  making  your  own  clothes. 

Take  care  and  keep  your  person  clean,  and  your  hair 
and  clothes  in  order,  and  have  your  chamber  always 
neat  and  tidy. 

Do  not  be  rude  and  boisterous  in  manners,  but  always 
speak  politely  to  all,  especially  to  those  Avho  em  ploy  you. 

Do  not  w^aste  any  of  the  provisions,  or  property  of 
your  employers,  nor  let  it  spoil  by  neglect,  and  never 
lend  or  give  away  anything  belonging  to  the  family 
without  leave. 

Kemember  the  Sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy. 

Read  your  Bible  daily,  and  try  to  obey  its  teachings. 

Pray  to  God  to  forgive  your  past  sins,  and  to  help  you 
keep  all  his  commands,  and  live  every  day  so  that  you 
will  not  be  afraid  to  die. 


MISCELLA^fEOUS    ADVICE,    ETC.  233 


CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

MISCELLANEOUS    ADVICE,    AND    SUPPLE3IENTAPtY    RECEIPTS. 

Weights  and  Measures. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  hav^e  a  particular  measure  cup 
kept  for  the  purpose,  and  after  once  weighing"  all  those 
receipts  that  are  given  by  weight,  to  weasure  the  cjuan- 
tity  by  this  cup,  and  then  write  the  measures  in  your 
receipt  book,  and  keep  the  cup  only  for  this  purpose. 
The  following  is  some  guide  in  judging  of  the  relative 
proportion  between  measures  ancl  weights. 

A  quart  of  flour,  or  of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  or  of  softened 
butter,  each  weigh  about  a  pound.  The  flour,  if  sifted, 
must  lie  heaped. 

A  pint  equals  eight  ounces. 

A  half  a  pint  equals  four  ounces. 

One  gill  equals  two  ounces. 

Half  a  gill  equals  one  ounce. 

A  quart  of  brown  sugar,  or  of  Indian  meal,  equals  a 
pound  and  two  ounces  of  the  same. 

One  great  spoonful  of  flour,  Joaf  sugar,  or  of  melted 
butter,  equals  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  the  same.  It 
should  be  a  little  heaped. 

Four  spoonfuls  ecjual  an  ounce,  or  half  a  gill. 

Eight  spoonfuls  equal  one  gill. 

Sixteen  spoonfuls  equal  half  a  pint. 

Spoons  differ  so  much  in  size  that  this  is  an  uncertain 
guide. 

A  medium-sized  teaspoon  holds  sixty  drops  of  water. 

Ten  eggs  usually  weigh  a  pound. 

Four  gills  make  a  pint. 

Two  pints  make  a  quart. 

Four  quarts  make  a  gallon. 

Eight  quarts  make  a  peck. 

Four  pecks  make  a  bushel. 


284  MISCELLANEOUS   ADVICE,    AND 

Avoirdupois  Weight. 

Sixteen  drachms  make  an  ounce. 
Sixteen  ounces  make  a  pound. 
Twenty-eight  pounds  make  a  quarter. 
Four  quarters  mal^e  a  imndred. 
Twenty  hundred  make  a  ton. 

Apothecaries^  Weight. 

Twenty  grains  make  a  scruple. 
Three  scfruples  make  a  draciim. 
Eight  draclims  make  an  ounce. 
Twelve  ounces  make  a  pound. 

0?i  Purchasing  Wood. 

Wood  that  is  straight  and  solid  makes  more  in  a  load, 
and  is  the  most  profitable. 

A  cord  of  small  crooked  sticks  does  not  contain  half 
the  wood  there  is  in  a  load  of  solid  logs. 

The  best  wood  for  fires  is  the  hickory,  hard  maple, 
white  ash,  black  birch,  yellow  birch,  beech,  yellow  oak, 
and  locust.     The  best  are  placed  first. 

The  following  are  inferior  in  quality.  Elm,  soft  ma- 
ple, white  birch,  pepperage,  and  pine. 

The  following  are  not  fit  to  burn,  either  because  they 
snap,  or  will  not  burn.  Chestnut,  butternut,  cedar,  sas- 
afras,  red  oak,  and  buckeye. 

Any  person  can  learn  to  distinguish  each  kind  by  a  little 
attention  and  instruction. 

Wood  is  bought  by  measurement.  A  cord  of  wood  is 
8  feet  long,  4  feet  wide,  and  4  feet  high. 

To  know  the  amount  of  a  load,  multiply  the  length 
by  the  breadth,  and  the  product  by  the  height,  and  you 
have  the  number  of  square  feet.  If  it  is  128  feet,  it  is 
a  cord. 

Items  of  Advice. 

If  you  keep  an  account  of  your  stores,  and  the  dates 
when  they  are  bought,  you  can  know  exactly  how  fast 
thev  are  used,  and  when  they  are  wasted,  or  stolen. 


SUPPLEMENTARY     RECEIPTS.  285 

Stale  bread  is  improved  by  steaming  it  half  an  hour 
or  more. 

Grate  up  dry  cheese,  and  cheese  crusts,  moisten  it  with 
wine  or  brandy,  and  keep  it  in  a  jar  for  use.  It  is  bet- 
ter than  at  first. 

Boil  old  earthen  soaked  with  grease  in  hot  ley,  and  it 
will  cleanse  it. 

Wheat  should  always  be  washed  before  grinding. 

When  you  clean  house,  begin  with  the  highest  rooms 
first,  so  that  clean  rooms  be  not  soiled  when  done. 

Repair  house  linen,  turn  sheets,  and  wash  bedclothes 
in  summer. 

Clean  house  in  the  fall  instead  of  spring,  and  you  get 
rid  of  all  the  filth  made  by  flies.  But  when  j^ou  burn 
bituminous  coal,  spring  is  the  proper  time  for  house 
cleaning. 

Keep  coarse  mats  on  the  kitchen  table  for  keeping  it 
clean. 

Use  a  coarse  apron  and  gloves  for  cleaning  grates. 
Have  coal  cinders  sifted,  and  save  the  coarse  part  to  burn 
again. 

Buy  your  w^ood  in  August  and  September,  when  it 
usually  is  cheapest  and  plenty. 

Have  the  backs  of  your  chimneys  kept  clean  by  sweep- 
ing. 

Never  try  a  new  dish  for  company. 

To  purify  water,  put  common  charcoal  pounded  in  a 
common  flower-pot,  and  fine  sand  over  it,  and  let  the 
Avater  trickle  through.  Or,  take  an  old  sieve,  and  fill  it 
with  sand  and  pounded  charcoal,  and  strain  the  water, 
and  then  cool  it  with  ice. 

Keep  a  receipt  book  for  yourself,  and  write  in  it  the 
improvements  of  your  own  experience. 

Keep  bits  of  potter's  clay  in  the  house,  to  use  for  a 
paste  to  extract  grease  from  carpets,  floors,  and  broad- 
cloths. 

Dry  bran  around  grapes  and  other  fruit  preserves  it. 

All  fat  should  be  tried  up  once  a  week,  for  cooking, 
or  soap  grease.     Good  fat  saves  butter. 

When  a  stove-pipe  or  other  iron  is  cracked,  make  a 


2S6  MISCELLANEOUS    ADVICE,    AND 

cement  with  ashes,  salt,  and  water,  and  it  v/ill  stop  the 
opening. 

Faded  colors  often  are  improved  by  strong  salt  and 
water. 

Sal  volatile^  or  spirits  of  hartshorn,  will  restore  colors 
taken  out  by  acids. 

Eggs  are  preserved  longer  by  packing  them  close, 
standing  on  their  small  ends.  Another  way  is  to  pack 
them  in  fine  salt,  small  end  down.  Another  way  is  to 
pack  them,  small  end  down,  and  then  pour  on  them  a 
mixture  of  four  quarts  of  cold  water,  four  quarts  of  im- 
slacked  lime,  two  ounces  of  salt,  and  two  ounces  of 
cream-tartar.  This  v/iil  serve  for  nine  dozen  eggs. 
Try  all  these  ways. 

Rancid  hutter  is  said,  by  good  judges,  to  be  restored 
thus  : — Put  fifteen  drops  of  chloride  of  lime  to  a  pint  of 
water,  and  work  the  butter  in  it  till  every  particle  has 
come  in  contact  with  the  water.  Then  work  it  over  in 
fair  cold  water. 

Indelible  Ink  is  thus  prepared  : — Buy  three  drachni 
of  nitrate  of  silver,  and  put  it  in  a  vial  with  two  spoor 
fuls  of  water.     Let  it  stand  a  few  days,  then  color  it  wit 
a  little  ink,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy.     The 
preparation  is  made  of  strong  pearlash  water,  stiffened 
with  gum-arabic,  and  colored  with  red  wafers. 

I^uy  cheap  red  wafers^  and  scatter  them  about,  and 
cockroaches  will  eat  them  and  be  destroyed.  The  roots 
of  black  hellebore  scattered  in  their  haunts  is  an  infal- 
lible remedv. 

Cold  cream  for  sore  lips,  is  made  by  mixing  two 
ounces  of  oil  of  almonds,  one  ounce  of  spermaceti,  one 
drachm  of  white  wax,  and  melting  them  together,  ad- 
ding rose  water  to  perfume  them. 

Jelly -bags  should  be  made  of  fiannel,  and  puddhig 
cloths  of  thick  linen,  with  strings  sewed  on  to  t!iem. 

Rose  leaves  should  be  gathered  and  preserved  by 
crowding  them  into  a  jar  witli  brandy,  to  use  for  cooking. 

Potato  starch  is  made  by  grating  peeled  potatoes, 
and  rubbing  them  in  water.  Then  pour  off  the  water, 
after  stirrino-  it.  and  dry  wliat  sinks  to  the  bottom. 


SUIPLEMENTARY    RECEIPTS.  '  287 

Orange  and  le?iion  peel  can  be  saved  thus  : — Dry  it 
in  an  oven,  pound  it,  and  then  bottle  it  close. 

Orange  or  lemon  water  is  prepared  tlius  : — Pound 
the  fresh  skins  in  a  mortar,  pour  in  boihng  water,  cover 
close,  and  when  cold  bottle  close.  Or  use  wine  or 
brandy. 

Cologne  water  is  made  thus  : — Buy  at  the  apotheca- 
ry's one  drachm  each  of  oil  of  lavender,  oil  of  lemon,  oil 
of  rosemary,  and  oil  of  cinnamon.  Add  two  drachms  of 
oil  of  bero^amot.  Mix  in  a  vial,  and  add  a  pint  of  alco- 
hol. 

When  Pearlash  or  ^alerafiis  becomes  damp,  dis- 
solve it  in  as  much  water  as  Avill  just  entirely  dissolve  it, 
and  no  more.  A  tablespoonful  of  this  equals  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  the  solid.     Keep  it  corked  in  a  junk  bottle. 

The  following  is  a  very  useful  receipt  for  children  who 
go  to  school  where  blackboards  are  used. 

To  make  nice  Crayons  for  Blackboards. 

These  directions  are  given  by  Prof.  Turner,  of  the 
American  Asylum  for  the  Deaf  and  Dumb,  as  follows  : 

"  Take  5  pounds  of  Paris  white,  1  pound  of  Wheat 
flour,  wet  with  water,  and  knead  it  well ;  make  it  so 
stiif  that  it  will  not  stick  to  the  table,  but  not  so  stiff  as 
to  crumble  and  fall  to  pieces  when  it  is  rolled  under  the 
hand. 

"  To  roll  out  the  crayons  to  the  proper  size,  two  boards 
are  needed,  one  to  roll  them  on  ;  the  other  to  roll  them 
vnth.  The  first  should  be  a  smooth  pine  board  three 
feet  long  and  nine  inches  wide.  The  other  should  also 
be  pine,  a  foot  long  and  nine  inches  wide,  having  nailed 
on  the  under  side  near  each  edge  a  slip  of  wood  one- 
third  of  an  inch  thick,  in  order  to  raise  it  so  much  above 
the  under  board  as  that  the  crayon,  when  brought  to  its 
proper  size,  may  lie  between  them  without  being  flat- 
tened. 

■  "  The  mass  is  roiled  into  a  ball,  and  slices  are  cut  fi'om 
one  side  of  it  about  one-third  of  an  inch  thick  :  these 
slices  are  again  cut  into  strips  about  four  inches  long  and 


288  CHEAP    DISHES. 

one-third  of  an  inch  wide,  and  rolled  separately  between 
these  boards  until  smooth  and  round. 

"  Near  at  hand  should  be  another  board  3  feet  long  and 
4  inches  wide,  across  which  each  crayon,  as  it  is  made, 
should  be  laid,  so  that  the  ends  may  project  on  each 
side — the  crayons  should  be  laid  in  close  contact,  and 
straight.  When  the  board  is  filled,  the  ends  should  al) 
be  trimmed  off  so  as  to  make  the  crayons  as  long  as  the 
width  of  the  board.  It  is  then  laid  in  the  sun,  if  in  hot 
weather,  or  if  in  winter,  near  a  stove  or  fireplace,  where 
the  crayons  may  dry  gradually,  which  will  require 
twelve  hours.  When  thoroughly  dry  they  are  fit  for 
use. 

"  An  experienced  hand  will  make  150  in  an  hour.'^ 
Young  boys  can  make  them  and  sell  to  their  compan 
ions. 


SOME  EXCELLENT  CHEAP  DISHES. 

Stewed  Beef. 

Take  a  shank  or  hock  of  beef,  with  all  the  meat 
belonging  to  it,  and  put  it  into  a  pot  full  of  water  early 
in  the  morning  and  throw  in  a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Let 
it  simmer  very  slowly,  till  the  beef  is  soft,  and  cleaves 
from  the  bone,  and  the  water  is  reduced  to  about  two 
quarts.  Then  peel  some  potatoes,  and  cut  them  in 
quarters,  and  tlirow  in  w4th  two  teaspoonfuls  of  black 
pepper,  two  of  sweet  marjoram,  and  two  of  thyme,  or 
summer  savory.  Add  some  celery  flavor  or  sauce,  and 
more  salt  if  it  requires  it.  Stew  until  the  potatoes  are 
cooked  enough,  but  not  till  they  are  mashed.  Then  take 
dry  bread,  and  throw  in,  breaking  it  into  small  pieces, 
and  when  soaked,  take  up  the  whole  and  serve  it,  and 
everybody  will  say  it  is  about  the  best  dish  they  ever 
tasted. 

Those  wlio  love  onions  slice  in  three  or  four  with  the 
potatoes.     Rice  can  be  put  in  instead  of  bread. 


CHEAP    DISHES.  289 


Tomato  Beef. 


Stew  a  shank  or  hock  of  beef  as  above,  except  you 
put  in  nine  or  ten  peeled  tomatoes  instead  of  potatoes 
and  sweet  herbs,  and  also  leave  out  the  bread.  Some 
would  add  a  httle  chopped  onion.  This  is  excellent 
and  a  very  healthful  mode  of  preparing  beef,  especially 
if  it  is  tough. 

A  good  Way  to  use  Cold  Rice. 

Heat  the  rice  in  milk,  add  a  well-beaten  egg  or  two, 
a  httle  salt,  butter,  and  sugar,  let  it  boil  up  once,  and 
then  grate  on  nutmeg. 

To  prepare  Good  Toast. 

Toast  the  bread  very  quick,  dip  each  shce  in  boiling 
water  as  soon  as  you  have  toasted  it,  and  then  lay  thin 
bits  of  butter  over.  Cover  and  keep  hot  as  you  proceed. 
A  tm  honnet  is  very  useful  for  this.  Make  milk  toast 
in  the  same  way,  keeping  the  milk  at  nearly  boiUng 
heat.  It  is  better  to  spread  the  butter  thin  on  to  the 
toast  after  it  is  dipped  in  hot  n^ilk,  than  to  melt  it  in  it. 

A  Good  Pudding. 

Line  a  buttered  dish  with  slices  of  wheat  bread,  first 
dipped  in  milk.  Fill  the  dish  with  sliced  apple,  and  add 
sugar  and  spice.  Cover  with  slices  of  bread  soaked  in 
milk,  cover  close  with  a  plate,  and  bake  three  hours. 

Loaf  Pudding . 

When  bread  is  too  stale,  put  a  loaf  in  a  pudding-bag 
and  boil  it  in  salted  water  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  eat 
it  with  hard  pudding  sauce. 

A  Plain  Lemon  Pudding. 

Nine  spoonfuls  of  grated  apple,  one  grated  lemon, 
(peel  and  pulp,)  half  a  cup  of  butter,  and  three  eggs. 
Mix  and  bake,  with  or  without  a  crust,  about  an  hour. 
Cream  improves  it. 

25 


290  CHEAP    DISHES. 

An  Excellent  Indian  Pudding  loithoiit  Eggs. 

Take  seven  heaping  spoonfuls  of  Indian  meal,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  spoonfuls  of  butter  or  sweet 
lard,  a  teacup  of  molasses,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  gin- 
ger or  cinnamon,  to  the  taste.  Pour  into  these  a  quart 
of  milk  while  boiling  hot.  Mix  well,  and  put  it  in  a 
buttered  dish.  Just  as  you  set  it  in  the  oven  stir  in  a 
teacup  of  cold  water,  which  will  produce  the  same  effect 
as  eggs.  Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  in  a  dish  that 
will  not  spread  it  out  thin. 

Pork  and  Potato  Balls. 

Take  one-third  chopped  salt  pork  or  ham,  either  raw 
or  cooked,  and  two-thirds  of  cold  cooked  potatoes  chop- 
ped fine.  Mix  them  up  w^th  e,gg^  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  then  make  into  balls  and  fry,  or  merely  cook 
in  a  skillet. 

Chop  cold  potatoes  fine,  and  then  add  some  pork  fat 
and  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  water,  and  warm  slowly, 
and  it  is  very  good. 

* 
Oyster  Pie. 

Make  a  crust  by  working  flour  into  mashed  boiled 
potatoes  with  a  little  salt.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  it,  in- 
vert a  small  teacup  in  the  middle  to  hold  the  juice  in  and 
to  hold  up  the  upper  crust.  Put  in  the  oysters  with  a 
little  pepper  and  butter,  and  dredge  in  some  flour. 
Cover  with  crust,  make  a  large  slit  on  the  top,  and  bake 
an  hour. 

Green  Corn  Patties  {like  Oysters). 

Twelve  ears  of  sweet  corn  grated.  (Yellow  corn  will 
do,  but  not  so  well.) 

One  teasponful  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper. 

One  egg  beaten  into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

Mix,  make  into  small  cakes,  and  fry  brown  in  butter 
or  sweet  lard. 


CHEAP    DISHES.  291 

Ohio  Wedding  Cake  {Mrs.  K.), 

Two  pounds  of  flour. 

One  pound  of  butter. 

One  pound  of  sugar — brown  is  best. 

Two  pounds  of  currants  or  one  of  raisins. 

Ten  eggs. 

Two  teacups  of  molasses. 

One  gill  of  wine,  and  one  of  brandy. 

One  gill  of  cream,  spice  and  citron  to  the  taste. 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  molasses,  then  the 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  flour,  then  the  spice, 
wine,  and  cream,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs  in  a  stiff 
froth.  Put  in  the  fruit  in  the  manner  previously  di- 
rected, and  the  citron  with  it  at  the  same  time.  This 
is  a  very  fine  cake. 

Best  Way  of  snaking  Corn  Cakes  of  all  Sorts. 

There  is  often  a  sharp  and  strong  taste  to  corn  meal, 
which  is  remedied  by  wetting  it  up  the  day  before  it  is 
used.  The  best  kind  of  corn  cakes  are  made  by  wet- 
ting up  a  large  quantity  of  Indian  meal  with  milk, 
and  letting  it  stand  for  several  days.  Take  a  quan- 
tity of  it,  and  first  make  it  as  thin  as  you  want,  either 
for  griddle  cakes,  or  drop  cakes,  or  thicker  cakes.  Add 
salt  and  a  spoonful  of  melted  J3utter  or  lard  for  every 
quart,  also  sugar  to  your  taste.  A  little  always  im- 
proves all  corn  cakes.  Then  dissolve  soda  or  salaratus, 
a  teaspoonful  for  each  quart.  If  it  is  very  sour  it  will 
want  more,  and  tasting  is  the  surest  guide.  Just  as 
you  are  ready  to  bake,  stir  in  enough  salaratus  to 
sweeten  it,  and  stir  quickly  and  only  long  enough  to 
mix  it  well,  and  then  hake  immediately  in  buttered 
tins. 

Domestics  often  use  too  much  salaratus,  which  is  bad 
for  the  stomach,  and  the  housekeeper  should  ascertain 
by  trial  the  right  quantity,  and  then  direct  to  have  it 
carefully  oneasured  every  time.  Corn  cakes,  made  as 
above,  just  thick  enough  to  form  into  round  cakes  half 
an  inch  thick  and  baked  on  a  griddle,  are  excellent. 


292  CHEAr    DISHES. 

Molasses  Candy. 

As  all  children  are  fond  of  this  article,  the  following 
directions  may  be  acceptable.  Boil  the  molasses  (ma- 
ple is  the  best)  till  it  will,  if  dropped  in  cold  water,  be- 
come crisp.  Then,  for  each  quart,  put  into  it  an  even 
teaspoonful  of  salaratus  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  wa- 
ter, and  stir  it  till  well  mixed.  This  makes  it  tender 
and  crisp.  Take  a  part  and  cool  it  in  a  buttered  pan,  to 
work  white  and  draw  into  sticks.  Into  the  remainder 
stir  roasted  corn,  either  pounded  or  whole,  or  peanuts  or 
almonds,  or  Avalnuts  or  hazelnuts. 

Whole  Popped  corn  made  into  cakes  with  candy 
is  excellent.  Roasted  corn  pounded  and  mixed  with 
half  the  quantity  of  maple  sugar  is  good,  and  some  eat 
it  thus  in  milk. 

To  make  Simple  Cerate. 

Melt  together  equal  quantities  of  white  wax  and  sper- 
maceti, and  then  add  an  equal  quantity  of  sweet  oil,  or 
a  little  more. 

Never  use  rancid  oil. 

Best  Remedy  for  Buriis. 

Pound  and  sift  wood  soot,  and  mix  it  with  sweet  lard, 
and  apply  it,  spread  on  linen  rags.  It  will  ease  a  burn 
quicker  than  anything.  If  the  skin  is  off,  the  great 
thing  is  to  keep  it  covered  close  from  the  air.  If  the 
burns  are  large  and  bad,  give  salts  or  cream  tartar  as  a 
cathartic. 

Ginger  Tea. 

Pour  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  on  to  a  teaspoonful 
of  ginger  ;  add  sugar  and  milk  to  the  taste. 

Indian  Bannock. 

Take  one  pint  of  Indian  meal,  and  stir  into  it  a  pint 
of  sour  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  spoonful  of 
molasses,  and  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Beat  two  eggs 
and  add,  and  then  stir  in  a  pint  of  wheat  flour.     Then 


CHEAP    DISHES.  293 

thin  it  with  milk  to  the  consistency  of  drop  cakes,  and 
when  ready  to  bake,  stir  in  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
salaratus  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Pour  into  square  but- 
tered tins  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Egg  and  Bread. 

Put  bread  crumbs  into  a  sauce  pan,  with  cream,  salt, 
and  pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  When  the 
bread  has  absorbed  the  cream,  break  in  eight  eggs  and 
fry  it  like  an  omelet,  or  bake  it  in  buttered  tins,  or  muf- 
fin rings. 

Floating  Island. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  till  very  stiff,  then  put  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  some  acid  jelly  for  each  white,  and  beat 
it  a  good  while.  Boil  rich  sweetened  milk,  and  put  it 
in  a  glass  dish,  and  when  cold^  put  the  jelly  and  eggs 
on  the  top. 

A  New  Mode  of  cooking  Cucumbers. 

Pare  them,  cut  them  in  quarters  lengthwise,  dip  them 
in  corn  meal  or  wheat  flour,  pepper  and  salt  them,  and 
then  fry  them  brown,  and  they  are  very  fine. 

25* 


aUG  20 


n 


{4 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  010  463  009  1      0 


J^-^K 


