THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


MODERN    MEATLESS 

COOK  BOOK 


Five  Hundred  Recipes  for  Preparing  Foods, 

with  Special  Reference  to  Cooking 

Without  Meat 


SAN  JOSE,  CAL. 

HOUSE  OF  REST 

236  North  Sixth  Street 


CONTENTS 


Chapter  I.             Soups 1 

Chapter  TI.           Fish 9 

Chapter  III.          Meat  Substitutes  and  Entrees 14 

Chapter  IV.          Gravies  and   Sauces 40 

Chapter  V.         Vegetables    42 

Chapter  VI.         Salads 48 

Chapter  VII.        Salad  Dressings 53 

Chapter  VIII.      Puddings 56 

Chapter  IX.          Pudding  Sauces 64 

Chapter  X.           Pastry 66 

Chapter  XL         Pies 67 

Chapter  XII.        Prunes 71 

Chapter  XIII.      Miscellaneous  Desserts 7G 

Chapter  XIV.       Cookies,  Doughnuts  and  Wafers 83 

Chapter  XV.        Cakes  and  Ginger  Bread 92 

Chapter  XVI.      Fillings  and  Frostings 102 

Chapter  XVII.     Breads  and  Breakfast  Foods 106 

Chapter  XVIII.  Cereals 124 

Chapter  XIX.      Sandwiches 126 

Chapter  XX.        Beverages 128 

Chapter  XXI.      Preserves 130 

Chapter  XXII.    Household  Hints 133 

PRESS    OF    EATON    ft    CO..    SAN    JOSE.    CAL. 


PREFACE 


T  the  present  time,  when  there  is  such  a  general 
demand  for  meatless  recipes,  it  seems  good  to 
offer  to  the  public  a  Cook  Book  compiled  from 
recipes  by  practical  cooks  who  for  many  years 
have  made  a  study  of  meatless  dishes. 

For  more  than  twenty  years  there  has  been 
an  increasing  tendency  toward  the  eating  of  less  meat,  especially 
among  those  who  have  become  interested  in  the  new  spiritual 
movements  which  lead  the  mind  away  from  the  materialistic  view 
of  life.  When  a  change  to  a  meatless  diet  is  contemplated,  the 
average  housewife  is  at  a  loss  to  know  what  to  cook.  This  prob- 
lem has  been  satisfactorily  solved.  Nearly  one  hundred  recipes 
will  be  found  under  "Meat  Substitutes  and  Entrees,"  the  result 
of  the  experience  of  those  who  have  for  many  years  successfully 
maintained  a  meatless  diet.  When  properly  prepared,  these 
dishes  will  fully  take  the  place  of  the  meat  course.  They  will  be 
found  to  be  both  appetizing  and  nutritious.  After  becoming  ac- 
customed to  this  new  diet  the  average  person  will  not  willingly 
return  to  the  old. 

In  one  of  the  sanitoriums,  or  rest  homes,  which  have  come 
forth  in  the  development  of  modern  Christian  healing,  a  practi- 
cally meatless  diet  has  been  maintained  for  several  years.  Nu- 
merous recipes  were  originated  in  the  course  of  the  work.  The 
demand  for  these  recipes  from  the  guests  at  the  House  of  Rest 
in  San  Jose,  California,  was  the  inspiration  for  a  printed  Cook 
Book.  In  developing  the  idea  numerous  sources  were  drawn 
upon,  for  the  most  part  housewives  and  a  number  of  the  Cali- 
fornia Homes  of  Truth,  in  which  the  art  of  cooking  without 
meat  has  long  been  practiced. 

The  first  idea  was  to  publish  a  Cook  Book  to  supply  the  de- 
mand among  Truth  Students,  but  when  the  country  found  it 
necessary  to  conserve  the  food  supply  and  meat  substitutes  be- 
came a  necessity  at  every  table  in  the  land,  the  plan  was  broad- 
ened to  include  not  only  Truth  students  but  all  who  might  be  in- 
terested in  a  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK.  Helpful 
suggestions  to  housewives  who  wish  to  comply  with  the  require- 
ments of  the  Conservation  Committee  concerning  the  making  oi 
bread  without  the  exclusive  use  of  white  flour  have  also  been 
given. 

We  thank  the  friends  who  have  so  willingly  contributed 
their  choicest  recipes  for  this  Cook  Book. 


CHAPTER  I. 

SOUPS 


BROSIA  MEALS 

Brosia  Meals  are  of  three  varieties.  Bean  Brosia,  Pease 
Brosia,  and  Lentil  Brosia.  They  are  made  by  steam  cooking  the 
beans,  pease  or  lentils,  freeing  them  from  hulls  and  grinding. 
They  are  rich  in  protein.  While  beefsteak  contains  20.3%  of 
protein,  Lentil  Brosia  contains  25.7%,  Bean  Brosia  22.5%,  and 
Pease  Brosia  24.6%.  One  pound  of  the  meal  is  equal  to  two  of 
the  lentils,  pease  or  beans.  Brosia  Meals  may  be  obtained  from 
The  House  of  Rest,  236  N.  6th  St.,  San  Jose,  Cal. 

VEGEX 

Vegex  is  a  pure  vegetable  extract  having  a  distinctive  and 
delicious  flavor.  It  is  manufactured  abroad,  and  was  brought  to 
this  country  by  a  prominent  vegetarian.  Vegex  has  been  analyzed 
by  Professor  Allyn  of  Westfield  Board  of  Health;  a  sample  is 
taken  from  each  importation  and  analyzed  by  the  United  States 
Pure  Food  Department.  Vegex  is  made  in  the  form  of  a  dark 
brown  paste  but  contains  no  artificial  coloring.  It  is  put  up  in 
screw-top  jars  of  convenient  size  and  will  keep  practically  any 
length  of  time.  In  many  of  the  recipes  in  this  book  Vegex  is 
given  as  a  flavoring  for  soups,  sauces,  gravies  and  stews.  May 
be  obtained  from  local  grocer. 

VEGETARIAN  SOUP  STOCK 

A  great  variety  of  palatable  and  nutritious  soups  may  be 
made  without  meat  by  using  as  a  foundation  the  water  in  which 
rice,  macaroni,  or  vegetables  have  been  cooked.  The  water  from 
carrots,  turnips  and  spinach  is  not  suitable  for  this  purpose,  but 
may  be  used  for  flavoring.  Much  depends  upon  the  ingenuity 
of  the  cook  in  combining  left  over  tidbits.  The  seasoning  of  the 
soup  is  an  important  part,  for  a  change  in  seasoning  lends  variety 
to  otherwise  plain  soups.  There  are  several  excellent  vegetable 
extracts,  such  as  Vegex  and  Kitchen  Bouquet.  Vegex  is  used 
in  many  of  the  recipes  in  this  book  and  is  treated  in  a  separate 


2  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

article.  Seasoning  such  as  bay  leaf,  thyme,  celery  salt,  poultry 
seasoning,  and  onion  salt  should  be  kept  on  hand.  It  is  best, 
however,  not  to  use  more  than  two  or  three  of  these  at  one  time. 
Olive  oil  is  an  addition  to  soups  made  with  water,  but  care  must 
be  taken  to  boil  it  well  into  the  soup.  Brosia  meals,  which  are 
also  mentioned  in  a  separate  article,  are  excellent  for  vegetarian 
soups. 

ASPARAGUS  CREAM  SOUP 

1  tablespoon  butter  y*  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  flour  Yolks  two  eggs 

4  cups  asparagus  water 

Melt  butter  and  add  flour.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add 
water  in  which  asparagus  has  been  boiled.  Mix  milk  with  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  add  slowly  to  the  soup.  Season  to  taste.  Serve 
with  croutons. 

BARLEY  SOUP 

Outside  of  head  of  celery  2l/2  quarts  water 

4  tablespoons  pearl  barley  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  onion  Salt 

Boil  the  celery,  barley  and  onion  for  several  hours.  Rub 
through  coarse  strainer  and  put  in  the  other  ingredients.  Also 
add  gravy  left  from  string  beans  or  other  vegetables. 

BREAD  STICKS 

Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  into  sticks  and  toast.  Serve  with 
soup. 

BARLEY  CREAM  SOUP 

4  tablespoons  pearl  barley  1  onion 

\Y2  quarts  water  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  quart  celery  water  ^2  teaspoon  Vegex 

1  cup  cream  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  milk  Salt 

Boil  barley  and  onion  for  several  hours  in  the  water,  rub 
through  coarse  strainer.  Add  the  celery  water,  milk,  Vegex,  but- 
ter and  salt.  Thicken  with  the  flour  and  put  in  cream.  When 
celery  is  cooked  as  a  vegetable  save  the  water  or  if  preferred 
celery  may  be  boiled  with  the  barley  and  onion. 


SOUPS  3 

WHITE  BEAN  SOUP 

1^  cups  white  beans  (uncooked)        2  tablespoons  butter 

2^  quarts  water  1  tablespoon  scraped  onion 

1  gill  cream  Salt 

Soak  beans  overnight,  parboil,  then  cook  for  several  hours 
in  one  quart  and  half  of  water.  Season  with  salt,  butter  and 
onion.  Add  another  quart  of  water,  cook  until  it  begins  to  thick- 
en, add  cream  and  serve. 

BROWN  BEAN  SOUP 

2  cups  cooked  brown  beans     1  head  celery  (outside  stalks) 
1  onion  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

1  turnip  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  carrot  Salt 

3  tomatoes 

Cut  vegetables  into  small  pieces,  add  beans  and  one  and  one- 
half  quarts  water.  Boil  and  rub  through  strainer.  Add  about 
one  quart  water  in  which  dinner  vegetables  have  been  boiled. 
Put  in  other  ingredients  and  serve. 

LIMA  BEAN  SOUP 

1  cup  cold  rice  1  quart  or  more  milk 

1  quart  cold  Lima  beans          1  tablespoon  butter 

Salt  to  taste 
Put  beans  and  rice  through  colander  and  add  butter,  milk 

and  seasoning.     Let  simmer  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  bring  to 

a  boil  and  serve. 

BEAN  SOUP 

1  quart  cold  beans  1  quart  milk 

1  can  tomato  soup  Butter,  salt 

Put  the  beans  through  the  colander  and  mix  with  the  tomato 
soup.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  pour  in  the  milk,  let  simmer  a  few 
minutes  and  serve. 


MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 


CELERY  SOUP 

\l/2  quarts  celery  water  1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

5  potatoes  1  cup  chopped  celery 

1  onion  (cooked) 

1  quart  milk  3  tablespoons  butter 

Salt  and  celery  salt 

Cut  into  small  pieces  the  stalks  of  two  heads  of  celery  and 
boil.  Reserve  enough  of  the  celery  to  serve  with  cream  gravy 
as  a  vegetable.  Chop  remainder  of  celery,  put  back  into  kettle, 
add  potatoes,  onions,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Boil  and  rub  through 
coarse  strainer.  Add  other  ingredients,  season  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP 

3  cups  celery  3  level  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  boiling  water  3  level  tablespoons  flour 

3  cups  milk  Salt 
l/2  .onion 

Cut  celery  in  one  half  inch  pieces,  cook  in  boiling  water  un- 
til soft,  rub  through  strainer.  Place  milk  in  double  boiler  with 
onion  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir 
into  this  the  hot  milk  after  removing  the  onion,  cook  five  min- 
utes, add  celery  water  and  salt.  Serve  with  croutons. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP  NO.  1 

1  can  corn  3  level  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  boiling  water  3  level  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice  onion 

Chop  corn,  add  water,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  rub  through 
colander.  Bring  milk  and  onion  to  boiling  point  in  double  boil- 
er. Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  boiling  milk  from  which  onion  has 
been  removed,  cook  five  minutes,  add  salt,  combine  with  corn 
mixture  and  cook  five  minutes  longer. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP  NO.  2 

1  quart  canned  corn  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

2  level  tablespoons  grated       Salt 
cheese 

Pour  milk  over  corn  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  fire, 
strain,  but  do  not  mash  through  strainer.  Blend  butter  and  flour, 
stir  into  soup.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  add  cheese  and  salt. 

Corn  should  not  be  mashed  and  may  be  used  for  fritters. 


SOUPS  5 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP  NO.  3 

1  can  corn  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  quart  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion    Yolks  of  2  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper 

Put  the  corn  in  a  kettle  with  the  milk,  place  in  cooker  for 
two  hours  or  more.  Fry  the  chopped  onion  in  butter,  add  the 
flour  and  stir  till  it  is  a  smooth  paste.  Add  this  to  the  corn  and 
milk  and  cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  paprika.  Put  in  double  boiler  to  keep  hot,  and 
just  before  serving  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten. 

CREAM  TOMATO  SOUP 

1  can  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  onion  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  quart  milk  Salt,  pinch  of  soda 

Stew  the  tomatoes  and  sliced  onion  together  fifteen  minutes 
and  strain.  Stir  a  tablespoon  of  flour  into  a  little  water  and  add 
to  tomato  and  season  with  salt.  H'ave  the  milk  boiling,  add  a 
little  soda  to  the  tomatoes  and  then  stir  in  the  boiling  milk  and 
serve.  Should  not  be  allowed  to  boil  after  milk  and  tomatoes 
are  put  together. 

CROUTONS  FOR  SOUP 

Cut  bread  into  inch  cubes  and  toast  in  a  moderate  oven,  or 
fry  in  oil  or  butter. 

DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP 

3  tablespoons  butter  5  soda  crackers 

3  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  eggs,  add  cracker  crumbs  and  mix  well. 
Let  stand  one  hour,  drop  into  boiling  water  or  soup.  Cover 
closely  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP 

1  can  green  peas  1  slice  onion   (if  desired) 

2  cups  water  2  tablespoons  flour 
2  cups  milk                               2  tablespoons  butter 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Drain  peas  from  liquor  and  cook  in  water  fifteen  minutes, 
rub  through  strainer.  Bring  milk  and  onion  to  boiling  point. 
Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  boiling  milk  from  which  onion  has 
been  removed,  boil  five  minutes  and  add  to  pea  mixture  and 
season. 


6  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

LENTIL  BROSIA  MEAL  SOUP  NO.  1 

2  large  tomatoes  3  rounded  tablespoons  Lentil 
YZ  onion  Brosia  Meal 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Y*  cup  cold  water 

2  quarts  vegetable  stock.  2  tablespoons  butter 

Salt 

Fry  tomatoes  and  onion  in  oil,  add  vegetable  stock — water 
saved  from  vegetables,  mix  Lentil  Brosia  with  cold  water,  add 
and  boil  one  half  hour.  Vegex  may  be  added  if  desired. 

LENTIL  BROSIA  MEAL  SOUP  NO.  2 

3  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  turnip  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  carrots  2  tablespoons  Brosia  Lentil 

1  onion  Meal 

2  tablespoons  rice  Y*  teaspoon  Vegex 
2  or  3  sprigs  of  parsley          Salt  and  celery  salt 

Cut  vegetables  into  small  pieces,  add  rice  and  boil  in  one 
and  one-half  quarts  water.  Strain  and  add  one  and  one-half 
quarts  water  which  has  been  drained  from  dinner  vegetables, 
rice  or  macaroni.  Put  in  other  ingredients  and  boil  one-half 
hour  in  order  to  thoroughly  cook  lentil  meal.  Wet  lentil  meal 
in  cold  water  before  putting  into  soup. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP 

To  a  can  of  Campbell 's  Mock  Turtle  Soup,  add  two  cups  of 
cream  and  one  cup  of  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

OATMEAL  SOUP 

Y*  CUP  oatmeal  1  onion 

1  head  celery  (outside  2  tablespoons  oil 

stalks)  Yz  teaspoon  Vegex 

Y-Z  cup  tomato  pulp  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  carrot  Salt 
1  turnip 

Cut  the  vegetables  into  small  pieces,  add  oatmeal  and  boil 
for  two  or  three  hours  in  about  two  quarts  of  water.  Rub  through 
coarse  strainer,  then  through  a  finer  one  if  desired.  Add  other 
ingredients,  more  water  if  needed,  season  and  serve. 


SOUPS  7 

CREAM  POTATO  SOUP 

2  quarts  of  water  1  pint  of  sweet  milk 

5  medium-sized  potatoes         Yolks  of  2  eggs 

4  medium  sized  onions  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Put  the  water  into  a  kettle,  pare  wash  and  slice  potatoes, 
chop  onions ;  put  into  the  kettle  of  water  and  boil  until  tender ; 
then  put  through  colander.  Add  more  milk  if  needed ;  beat  the 
yolks  light  and  add  to  the  milk,  with  the  flour  previously  rubbed 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  this  into  boiling 
soup.  Butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

POTATO  SOUP 

3  carrots  Lump  of  butter 
3  big  onions  Pepper 

6  potatoes  Salt 
1  pint  boiling  milk 

Boil  vegetables  in  three  pints  of  water.  When  soft,  mash 
through  colander  until  you  have  enough  to  make  as  thick  as 
cream,  then  add  a  good  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ; 
add  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  or  more  and  serve  at  once.  A  little 
cream  adds  much. 


PEA  BROSIA  MEAL  SOUP 

1  quart  hot  milk  1  quart  water 

Y-2.  onion  l/2  cup  pease  meal 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt 

Slice  onion  very  thin  and  cook  lightly  in  butter.  Stir  all  the 
time  and  do  not  brown,  when  light  yellow  in  color  add  water, 
salt  and  pease  meal  wet  in  cold  water.  Beat  in  and  stir  cooking 
twelve  minutes.  Add  hot  milk,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

PUREE  OF  LIMA  BEANS 

Wash  carefully  1  pound  of  lima  beans,  cover  well  with  boil- 
ing water,  keep  kettle  covered  and  cook  for  two  hours,  then  slip 
the  skins  off  the  beans,  return  to  fire  and  cook  about  twenty  min- 
utes. Add  to  this  smooth  paste  two  cups  of  white  sauce.  Should 
the  soup  be  too  thick  add  milk  or  a  little  cream.  Use  White  Sauce 
No.  2. 


g  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

PUREE  OF  SPLIT  PEA  SOUP 

Soak  1  cup  of  peas  overnight.  In  the  morning  put  on  to 
boil,  adding  small  onion  cut  fine.  Let  boil  about  two  hours. 
Strain  through  potato  ricer.  Add  one  cup  cream  or  rich  milk, 
salt  and  pepper.  Heat  and  serve. 

SOUBISE  SOUP 

Combine  white  sauce,  onion  and  macaroni,  add  one  and  out  • 
half  cups  water  in  which  onions  were  boiled,  and  enough  milk 
to  make  six  cups.  Heat  in  double-boiler  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  reheat.  Garnish  with 
thin  rings  of  cooked  macaroni. 

TOMATO  CELERY  SOUP  NO.  1 

1  head  celery  2  quarts  canned  tomatoes 

3  or  4  small  onions  Bay  leaf,  salt,  pepper 

Cut  stalks  and  leaves  of  celery  fine,  add  onions  cut  into  small 
pieces,  cover  with  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Place  in  fireless 
cooker  overnight.  When  ready  to  serve,  strain  the  tomatoes  into 
the  soup,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  bay-leaf  and  butter,  bring  to 
a  boil  and  serve. 

TOMATO  CELERY  SOUP  NO.  2 

1  can  tomatoes  1  slice  onion 

1  quart  water  2  tablespoons  rice 

1  small  head  celery  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Wash  the  celery  and  cut  into  inch  pieces  and  cook  until  ten- 
der with  the  tomatoes,  onion  and  water,  then  strain  through  a 
colander,  return  to  the  stove,  add  rice  and  cook  slowly  until  rice 
is  soft.  Add  butter. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

Yz  cup  turnips  1  large  tomato 

Yz  cup  carrots  2  tablespoons  butter 

YZ  onion  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

1  cup  celery  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

1  cup  potatoes  1  quart  water 

1  cup  bean  stock- 
Put  the  vegetables  through  a  meat  grinder,  using  the  coarse 

knife.    Add  the  water,  salt  and  olive  oil  and  boil  fifteen  minutes 

on  top  of  the  stove,  then  place  in  the  fireless  cooker  for  an  hour. 

Fifteen  minutes  before  serving  remove  from  cooker,  add  bean 

stock,  butter  and  parsley. 


CHAPTER  II. 

FISH 


BAKED  SALMON 

2  pounds  fish  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  tomato  catsup  1    teaspoon   Worcestershire 

1  small  carrot  Sauce 

Wash  fish,  salt  and  flour  well,  put  into  deep  baking  dish, 
place  butter  on  top,  add  carrots  chopped  fine,  over  this  pour  cat- 
sup and  Worcestershire  Sauce.  Bake  one  hour,  baste  often. 
Serve  in  same  dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 

CLAM  CHOWDER 

3  medium-sized  potatoes         3  small  cans  clams 
1  small  onion  1  quart  milk 

1  pint  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  soda  crackers  Salt 

Boil  potatoes  cut  into  cubes,  and  onion  sliced  fine,  in  one 
pint  of  water.  Add  liquor  from  clams,  also  milk  and  butter. 
Five  minutes  before  serving  add  clams  and  season  to  taste.  Add 
crackers  crushed  fine.  For  variety,  this  chowder  can  be  made 
without  milk  by  adding  a  little  celery  and  carrot  chopped  fine. 

CODFISH  BALLS 

2  cups  potatoes  1  egg 

1  cup  salted  codfish 

Cut  potatoes  into  small  pieces.  Shred  codfish.  Boil  togeth- 
er until  potatoes  are  soft.  Drain  and  mash.  Add  egg  and  drop 
from  spoon  into  hot  crisco.  Turn  carefully  with  a  fork.  Do 
not  flatten  balls.  Fish  should  not  be  freshened.  If  mixture  is 
too  soft  add  a  spoonful  of  flour. 

CREAMED  CRAB 

\y2  pints  milk  1  can  crab  meat  or  fresh 

2  heaping  tablespoons  flour        crab 

Heat  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  butter,  salt  and  thicken  with 


10  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

flour.  When  thickened,  add  crab  minced  and  cook  a  few  min- 
utes. Serve  on  crackers,  which  have  been  heated  in  oven,  rich 
biscuit  in  halves,  or  in  pastry  shells. 

CREAMED  FISH 

1  pint  cold  fish,  minced  2  eggs 

1  pint  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

3  tablespoons  flour  Salt,  pepper 

Place  minced  cold  fish  in  baking-dish  and  pour  cream  over 

it  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.     Make  cream  as  follows:  Thicken 

milk  with  flour  previously  mixed  with  cold  water,  add  pepper. 

salt  and  butter.     Heat  and  pour  over  minced  cold  fish.    Garnish 

with  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced. 

FRIED  SOLE 

Wash  thoroughly  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Flour  well  and  dip 
in  egg  slightly  beaten.  Fry  in  plenty  of  crisco.  Place  on  platter 
garnished  with  parsley.  Serve  with  Tartar  Sauce. 

FINNAN  HADDIE 

Wash  well,  put  flesh  side  down  in  baking  pan,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  bring  to  a  simmer.  Drain,  rinse  with  cold  milk 
and  bake  half  hour.  Five  minutes  before  taking  up,  dot  with 
butter  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  leave  in  oven  until  butter 
melts. 

HOMINY  AND  FISH 

Layer  of  cooked  hominy,  layer  of  cooked  fish  until  baking 
dish  of  desired  size  is  full.  Cover  with  White  Sauce  No.  1, 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  which  have  been  fried  in  butter,  and 
bake  one-half  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Ground  peanuts  are  a 
nice  addition  to  this  dish. 


KEDGEREE 

2  cups  cooked  fish,  and  kind    4  tablespoons  butter 
1  cup  cooked  rice  54  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

Melt  butter,  add  the  flaked  fish,  then  the  other  ingredients 
and  stir  over  stove  until  hot.     If  too  dry  add  a  little  milk. 


FISH  11 

OLIVETTES 

1  pint  ripe  olives  1  heaping  teaspoon  flour 

1  small  can  oysters  Butter 

1  cup  milk  Salt,  pepper 

Put  butter  into  sauce-pan,  when  melted,  mix  in  flour,  add 
milk,  olives  and  liquor  from  oysters ;  boil  a  few  minutes ;  add 
salt,  pepper  and  oysters.  Serve  on  toast. 

OYSTERS  AND  MACARONI 

1  pint  oysters  ]/4  cup  butter 

24  cup  macaroni  broken  l/2  cup  dried  bread  crumbs 

into  inch  pieces  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  grated  American          y3  teaspoon  paprika 

cheese 

Cook  macaroni  until  tender.  Scald  the  oysters.  Put  layer 
about  of  oysters,  macaroni,  cheese  and  bread  crumbs  into  but- 
tered baking  pan.  Season  each  layer.  Pour  over  all  oyster  liquor. 
Bake  thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

SALMON  CUTLETS 

2  tablespoons  butter,  level      1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
YZ  cup  flour  \y&,  cups  cooked  salmon 

1  cup  cold  water  salted  Cracker  crumbs 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  flour,  rub  smooth  with  spoon, 
add  cold  water,  stir  constantly  to  prevent  lumping.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  lemon  juice  and  salmon.  Have  ready  a  platter  of 
rolled  cracker  crumbs ;  drop  spoonfuls  of  mixture  on  these,  shap- 
ing with  the  spoon  into  cutlets.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  with 
pancake  turner,  put  in  buttered  skillet  and  fry  brown. 

SALMON  LOAF 

2  pound  cans  salmon  Y*  teaspoon  salt,  level 
2  cups  bread  crumbs                Juice  of  ^  lemon 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,     Parsley 
level  Pepper 

3  eggs 

Flake  salmon,  add  dry  ingredients  previously  mixed,  then 
slightly  beaten  egs  and  lemon  juice.  Wrap  in  a  greased  cheese- 
cloth and  steam  forty-five  minutes. 


12  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

SALMON  TOMATO  ASPIC 

2  pounds  salmon  Mayonnaise  dressing 

1  can  tomatoes  Lettuce 

1  package  Knox  gelatine        Little  parsley,  onion,  bay 

1  cucumber  leaf,  whole  cloves,  lemon 

Boil  salmon  twenty  minutes  in  enough  water  to  cover,  first 
seasoning  water  with  salt,  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  few  cloves,  pep- 
per, slice  of  lemon,  parsley  and  little  sugar.  Let  get  cold  in  this 
water.  To  a  can  of  tomatoes  add  onion,  bay  leaf,  cloves,  pep- 
per, salt  and  little  sugar.  Boil  twenty  minutes.  Soak  gelatine 
in  cup  cold  water  for  twenty  minutes.  Strain  tomatoes,  add 
gelatine  and  pour  into  mold  to  jelly. 

Place  salmon  and  jelly  on  same  platter.  Garnish  with  let- 
tuce, sliced  cucumber  and  sprigs  of  curly  parsley.  Serve  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing. 

SCALLOPED  SALMON  AND  SPAGHETTI 

YZ  cup  spaghetti  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  can  salmon  Salt,  pepper 

1  cup  thin  white  sauce 

Break  spaghetti  into  short  pieces,  cover  with  boiling  salted 
water  and  boil  until  tender.  Free  salmon  from  bones  and  skin. 
Place  in  buttered  baking  dish,  layer  about.  Pour  over  all  a  cup 
of  thin  Cream  Sauce,  No.  1,  to  which  add  a  little  lemon  juice. 
Cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in 
moderate  oven. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

1  quart  fresh  oysters  2  eggs 

1  quart  milk  Salt,  pepper 

1  pound  coarse  cracker  Butter 

crumbs 

Place  in  buttered  baking  dish  layer  about  with  cracker 
crumbs  and  oysters,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter.  Finish  with  fine  cracker  crumbs,  pour  over  rich  milk 
until  it  can  be  seen  in  dish.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


FISH  13 

SCALLOPED  CORN  AND  OYSTERS 

2  cans  corn  6  soda  crackers 

1  can  oysters  Butter,  salt,  pepper 

1  pint  milk 

Put  in  a  baking  dish  layer  about  of  corn,  oysters  and  crack- 
ers. Season  each  layer  with  salt,  butter  and  pepper.  Moisten 
each  layer  with  milk  and  oyster  liquor.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
for  one-half  hour. 

TUNA  FISH  CUTLETS 

Make  like  Salmon  Cutlets  using  one  small  can  of  tuna  in- 
stead of  salmon. 

TUNA  FISH  CAKES 

1  small  can  tuna  fish  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes     >4  teaspoon  salt 
1  egg 

Season  the  potatoes  with  the  butter  and  salt,  add  the  minced 
fish  and  egg  unbeaten.  Mix  well  and  form  into  round  cakes  and 
fry.  Codfish  or  salmon  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  tuna. 

TUNA  LOAF 

1  can  tuna  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  cracker  crumbs  Juice  1  lemon 
2  eggs  Butter 

Beat  eggs,  add  milk,  tuna,  crumbs,  seasoning  and  lemon  last. 
Bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  Egg  Sauce  No.  1. 


CHAPTER  HI. 

MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 

and 

ENTREES 


BAKED  BEANS  (VEGETABIAN  STYLE) 

2  cups  small  white  beans  y2  teaspoon  ground  mustard 

1  teaspoon  soda  y2  teaspoon  white  pepper 

1  level  tablespoon  salt  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  scant  tablespoon  molasses  3  level  tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Water 

Pick  over  beans,  cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  over-night. 
In  morning  drain,  cover  with  fresh  water,  heat  slowly  and  sim- 
mer about  an  hour  or  until  skins  will  burst  when  exposed  to  cool 
air.  Add  soda,  let  foam  for  five  minutes,  drain  off  the  water. 
Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  to  this  two  cups  of  hot  water,  the  mo- 
lasses, oil  and  butter.  Place  beans  in  bean  pot  or  pan  for  bak- 
ing, add  mixture  and  enough  more  boiling  water  to  cover  well. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  from  three  to  six  hours.  Remove  cover 
the  last  hour  so  they  may  brown.  Add  water  occasionally  if 
needed. 

BEAN  PATTIES 

2  cups  cooked  beans  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 
V/2  cups  cooked  rice  V2  cup  tomato 

\l/2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs    Onion  salt,  or  scraped  onion. 

1  tablespoon  oil  salt,  etc. 

Mix,  form  into  patties  or  croquettes,  fry  in  skillet  in  deep 
fat.  Serve  with  or  without  Tomato  Sauce.  (Makes  about  12 
patties.) 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES  15 

BEAN  ROAST 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  cooked  white  beans 
Yz  onion  1  cup  chopped  walnuts 
2^2  cups  broken  bread            Water 

1  teaspoon  sweet  marjoram    Salt,  pepper 

1  teaspoon  parsley,  chopped 

Mince  onion,  fry  in  butter,  mix  with  bread  previously  mois- 
tened with  water  or  the  bean  gravy,  add  other  ingredients.  This 
should  be  the  consistency  of  poultry  dressing.  Shape  as  for  veal 
loaf,  bake  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  brown  gravy  or  tomato 
sauce. 

KIDNEY  BEANS  WITH  APPLE  FRITTERS 

3  cup  beana  1  small  carrot,  sliced 
1  pint  tomatoes                         4  tablespoons  oil 

1  small  onion  Salt,  other  seasoning  to  taste 

Wash  beans  thoroughly,  soak  for  two  hours  and  pour  off 
water,  add  other  ingredients,  cover  with  water  and  let  simmer 
all  day,  or  cook  in  fireless  cooker  all  night.  Serve  on  platter, 
garnish  with  Apple  Fritters,  recipe  on  page  22. 

LIMA  BEAN  ROAST 

1/^2  cups  lima  bean  pulp  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

\l/2  cups  bread  crumbs  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  chopped  walnuts  Salt,  pepper,  onion  salt,  sage 
(or  part  peanuts)  Milk  to  moisten 

2  eggs 

Mix  and  bake  in  oblong  tin  one  hour.  Turn  out  on  plat- 
ter, pour  over  it  Tomato  Sauce  or  gravy. 


MEXICAN  BAKED  BEANS 

1  pint  red  kidney  beans  1  level  teaspoon  paprika 

2  large  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  molasses 
1  large  onion  Butter  or  olive  oil 

1  large  green  pepper  Salt 

Soak  beans  all  night,  add  fresh  water,  parboil.  Mince  to- 
matoes, onion,  pepper,  add  these  with  other  ingredients,  cover 
and  bake  for  several  hours. 


16  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

QUICKLY  COOKED  LIMA  BEANS 

ly*  cups  water  per  1  cup        1  onion 

of  beans  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  carrot  Salt  and  pepper 

Lima  beans  are  cooked  as  follows  in  forty-five  minutes: 
Cook  the  beans  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes,  drain  and 
rub  off  skins,  add  carrot,  onion  and  water  in  proportion  to  two 
and  a  half  cups  water  to  one  cup  beans.  Season  generously  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Keep  closely  covered.  Cook  over  mild 
fire>  for  after  removing  skins  beans  will  go  to  pieces  easily. 

BROSIA  PEASE  MEAL  PATTIES 

y2  cup  pease  meal  }/}  teaspoon  paprika 

Y-Z  cup  flour  y2  teaspoon  poultry  seasoning 

1  cup  milk  l/4  teaspoon  onion  salt 

1  cup(  water  l/2  cup  chopped  walnuts 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  cornmeal  bread  crumbs 
1  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  Vegex 

Melt  butter  in  double  boiler,  add  flour,  stir  smooth,  add  hot 
liquid  and  seasonings,  then  gradually  the  pease  meal,  stirring  lo 
prevent  lumping.  Cook  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  crumbs,  nuts  and  egg,  form  into  patties,  cover  with  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  crisco  until  brown.  Garnish 
platter  with  Tomato  Sauce  and  parsley. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

4  level  tablespoons  flour  y2  Ib.  eastern  cheese 

y2  cup  cold  milk  2  eggs 

Y-Z  cup  hot  milk  y2  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  soft  bread  Pepper 
crumbs 

Mix  flour  and  cold  milk,  add  hot  milk  and  cheese  cut  in 
small  pieces  and  cook,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick  and 
smooth,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  crumbs  and  seasoning.  Fold  in  well 
beaten  whites.  Bake  in  buttered  dish  one-half  hour  and  serve 
at  once. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES  17 

CHEESE  TOAST 

1  cup  eastern  cheese  Salt 
3  tablespoons  butter                 Eggs 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  stir  in  flour,  chopped  cheese,  add 
enough  milk  to  make  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Salt  to 
taste.  Serve  on  buttered  toast  with  half  of  a  hard-boiled  egg 
in  center  of  each  slice. 

CHEESE  CUPS 

Use  recipe  for  Cheese  Toast,  add  chopped  olives  if  desired, 
and  serve  in  Pastry  Cases  with  half  a  hard-boiled  egg  in  center. 
Cases  may  also  be  made  from  mashed  potatoes  rolled  in  shape 
of  a  ball,  hollowed  to  form  a  cup,  browned  lightly  in  the  oven. 

CHEESE  PUFF 

3  level  tablespoons  flour          4  eggs 

2  level  tablespoons  butter        Dash  of  cayenne 

YZ  pint  milk  Salt 

YZ  pound  grated  cheese 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together  in  saucepan,  add  milk  and 
stir  over  fire  until  smooth,  add  quickly  the  grated  cheese.  Take 
from  the  fire,  drop  in  yolks  of  eggs,  salt  and  cayenne,  mix  thor- 
oughly, fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites,  turn  into  a  casserole  or 
baking  dish,  and  bake  in  quick  oven  twenty  minutes  or  until 
done.  Serve  at  once. 

SCALLOPED  CHEESE  NO.  1 

6  or  8  slices  buttered  bread    4  eggs 
1^2  cups  grated  cheese  2  or  3  cups  milk 

(Vary  according  to  Pepper,  salt,  paprika 

strength  of  cheese) 

Alternate  layers  of  bread  and  cheese  until  dish  is  filled,  sea- 
soning each  layer.  Then  beat  eggs  add  milk  and  pour  over  top 
of  dish.  Bake  in  medium  oven  half  an  hour.  Serves  nine. 

SCALLOPED  CHEESE  NO.  2 

]/2  loaf  stale  white  bread         1  pint  milk 

1  cup  cheese  y^  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  Butter,  paprika 

Place  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  layer  about,  buttered  bread 


18  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

cut  in  squares,  and  cheese  cut  in  thin  slices.  Season  each  layer. 
Pour  over  all  milk  mixed  with  beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  half  an  hour.  One  pound  of  cheese  is  equal  to  two  pounds 
of  meat. 

CHEESE  AND  BICE. 

2  heaping  tablespoons  but-  \l/2  cups  milk 

ter  and  crisco  1  cup  grated  cheese 

1  heaping  tablespoon  corn-  3  cups  cooked  rice 
starch  Salt 

Blend  over  fire  butter  and  crisco  with  cornstarch.  When 
hot,  but  not  brown,  add  milk,  cheese,  salt  and  pour  over  hot  rice. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

CHEESE  ROLLS 

Cream  a  small  amount  of  butter  and  eastern  cheese — more 
cheese  than  butter,  say  a  good  tablespoon,  season  with  paprika 
and  a  few  drops  of  Worchester  Sauce.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of 
Pullman  bread.  Remove  crusts  and  roll.  Bake  a  rich  brokn. 
This  makes  a  good  supper  dish. 

CHILI  LA  REINAS 

(Queen  of  the  Chilis) 

6  long  Chili  peppers  2  eggs 

l/2  pound  New  York  cream  4  medium-sized  tomatoes 

cheese  (a  cheese  that  will  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 

melt)  Sauce 

2  small  green  onions  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
(Dry  onion  can  be  used)  Salt,  paprika,  flour 

Y$  small  garlic  clove 

Test  peppers  before  using  to  be  sure  they  are  mild.  Scorch 
them  black  by  laying  directly  in  flame  of  the  gas  stove  but  do 
not  burn  the  inside.  Turn  continually.  Treat  tomatoes  the  same 
but  use  more  care  to  prevent  burning.  Throw  both  tomatoes  and 
peppers  into  cold  water  until  cool,  and  remove  to  drain  board. 
Pare  the  scorched  outside  from  peppers  with  a  small  sharp  knife, 
and  cut  off  stem  and  remove  the  seeds  and  wash  the  inside. 

Chop  the  cheese  into  coarse  crumbs,  and  the  onions  and  gar- 
lic extra  fine.  Mix  cheese,  garlic,  onions,  and  pour  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  olive  oil,  lemon  juice  and  paprika  over  mixture,  stir 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES         19 

in  thoroughly.     Stuff  the  peppers  with  the  above  mixture.  Close 
opening  in  peppers  with  two  toot-picks  at  right  angles. 

Make  batter  by  beating  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  sep- 
arately, mixing  them  and  beating  in  one  tablesponful  of  flour  to 
make  batter,  salt  to  taste.  Roll  the  peppers  in  this  batter  and 
fry  in  a  covered  pan  for  about  three  minutes  on  each  side. 

Tomato  Sauce 

Rub  off  scorched  outside  of  tomatoes,  and  stew  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan with  about  one-fourth  inch  of  water  till  thoroughly 
cooked  down,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Mix  the  remain- 
ing batter  with  the  tomato  sauce  and  fry  in  same  frying-pan  in 
which  tomatoes  were  fried,  for  about  three  minutes.  Salt  to 
taste.  Place  peppers  on  a  dish,  pour  sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

CANNED  CORN  CROQUETTES 

1/^2  cups  canned  corn  ^  small  onion  grated 

1  egg,  beaten  1%  cups  ground  bread  and 

%  cup  milk  cracker  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  butter,  melted    1  teaspoon  salt 

1  piece  celery,  grated  %  teaspoon  pepper 

Juice  l/2  small  lemon 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given ;  shape  into  cylinders  or 
balls,  roll  in  extra  dry  bread  crumbs,  then  dip  in  egg  slightly 
beaten  and  diluted  with  two  tablespoons  of  water,  then  in  crumbs 
again.  Let  stand  for  an  hour  and  fry  in  deep  fat  hot  enough  to 
brown  a  bit  of  bread  in  forty  seconds. 

CORN  LOAF  NO.  1 

l/2  dozen  ears  corn  1  tablespoon  flour 

3  eggs  Salt 

1  cup  milk 

Scrape  corn  from  cob,  mix  with  flour,  add  beaten  yolks 
mixed  with  milk,  and  lastly  well  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

CORN  LOAF  NO.  2 

5  ears  corn  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  34  cup  chopped  pimento 

1  cup  milk  Paprika 

Cut  corn  from  cob,  add  beaten  egg,  milk,  salt,  paprika  and 

pimento.     Mix  thoroughly,  put  into  buttered  casserole.     Bake  in 

a  moderate  oven  about  thirty  minutes. 


2n  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

LEFT-OVER  CORN  LOAF 

\}/2  cups  left-over  corn  loaf    2  eggs 
1  cup  salad  macaroni  3  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

?4  cup  tomato  sauce  Bread  crumbs 

Cook  macaroni,  add  salt  tomato  sauce  and  cheese.  When 
cool,  mix  with  corn  loaf,  add  one  well  beaten  egg,  paprika.  Shape 
into  balls.  Dip  balls  into  bread  crumbs,  then  egg  (one  egg  beat- 
en with  two  tablespoons  milk)  and  bread  crumbs  again.  This 
forms  crust  so  that  balls  will  not  soak  fat.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  very 
hot.  Serve  with  or  without  sauce. 

CORN  TAMAT.F. 

1  quart  corn  y2  cup  cornmeal 

y2  quart  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  egg  1  cup  stuffed  olives 
l/2  cup  milk                                1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  bake  one  hour.      Can  be  baked  in  ramekin  dishes. 

DRIED  BLACK-EYED  PEAS 

Wash  two  cupfuls  of  peas,  put  into  sauce-pan,  cover  with 
cold  water.  Cook  for  thirty  minutes,  add  salt,  two  tablespoons 
crisco,  two  of  olive  oil,  then  cook  for  an  hour  and  half.  These 
peas  resemble  pink  shell  beans,  and  are  more  nutritious  than 
common  peas. 

CREAMED  POACHED  EGGS 

Place  eggs  in  pan,  and  pour  enough  boiling  water  over 
them  so  eggs  will  be  about  two  inches  under  water.  Remove 
from  fire,  let  stand  from  seven  to  ten  minutes. 


4  eggs  2  cups  cooked  peas 

2  tablespoons  milk  Salt 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Add  milk  to  yolks, 
season,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Fry  slowly  in  butter. 
When  brown  turn  one  half  over  the  other.  Serve  on  platter  sur- 
rounded with  peas,  which  have  been  seasoned  and  slightly  thick- 
ened. Serves  five. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES  21 

BAKED  OMELET 

4  eggs  Butter 

1  cup  milk  Salt 

2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

Heat  milk,  stir  in  flour  smoothed  in  a  little  cold  milk,  cook 
a.  few  minutes.  Mix  in  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  remove  from  fire, 
then  fold  in  well  beaten  whites  and  pour  into  buttered  baking 
dish.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

TOMATO  OMELET 

5  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  butter  or  olive 

2  onions  oil 

1  clove  garlic  (if  desired)       Salt,  pepper 

4  or  5  eggs 

Peel  tomatoes,  cut  fine,  add  onions  minced,  garlic,  butter  or 
olive  oil,  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  tight,  let  simmer  until  tender. 
Drain  off  most  of  water.  Beat  eggs,  stir  into  tomatoes  until 
done.  Serve  hot. 

EGG  CUTLETS 

3  tablespoons  butter,  level       J4  tablespoon  salt 
l/3  cup  flour  6  hard-boiled  eggs 

1  cup  milk  Cracker  crumbs 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  flour,  milk  and  salt.  Cook 
thoroughly  about  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  the  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  cut  rather  coarse.  Form  into  cutlets,  cover  with 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown.  Will  serve  six. 

EGG  PUFFS 

Separate  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs,  keeping  yolks  whole. 
Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  yolks.  Add  pinch  of  salt  to  whites, 
beat  until  stiff.  Drop  whites  from  teaspoon  on  hot  buttered 
griddle ;  lay  a  yolk  on  each  spoonful  of  white  and  cover  each 
with  another  spoonful  of  white.  Turn  quickly  to  brown  on  oth- 
er side.  Serve  immediately. 

EGG  PATTIES 

4  eggs  hard  boiled  1J/2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  l/2  cup  milk 

Make  sauce  by  stirring  into  hot  milk,  butter  and  flour 
creamed.  Season.  Cook  thoroughly.  While  still  hot  put  in 
chopped  whites  of  eggs.  "While  hot  lay  on  a  platter  in  little  pat- 


22  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

ties.     Place  half  yolk  of  egg  on  each  pattie.     When    cold    and 
about  to  fry  dip  in  egg  batter,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs. 

ENGLISH  SCRAPPLE 

1  quart  broken  dry  bread       1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  cold  water  5  eggs 

Break  dry  toast,  French  bread  or  slices  of  other  bread  into 
small  pieces.  Let  stand  in  salted  water  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing squeeze  the  bread  quite  dry,  mix  with  eggs  slightly  beaten, 
and  fry  in  oil  or  butter.  Serve  on  a  platter  garnished  with  pars- 
ley. 

ENCHILADAS  (A  Mexican  Dish) 

1  pound  Chile  peppers  Olives 

1  pound  eastern  cheese  Thyme 

Y*  clove  garlic  Salt 

Enchilada  Sauce 

Remove  seeds  from  peppers,  boil  until  tender,  put  through 
colander.  Add  garlic  previously  roasted,  season  to  taste  with 
thyme  and  salt.  Heat  fat  very  hot  and  fry  sauce  about  five 
minutes. 

Tortillas  for  same 

3  cups  flour  Milk 

1  tablespoon  crisco  Salt 

Blend  flour  and  crisco,  add  enough  milk  to  make  batter  and 
fry  same  as  pancakes.  Grate  cheese,  mince  olives.  Spread  tor- 
tillas out  flat,  pour  three  tablespoons  Enchilada  Sauce  over  each 
one,  sprinkle  with  cheese  and  olives,  roll  up,  place  in  flat  pan, 
pour  sauce  and  cheese  over  them  and  put  in  oven  until  hot. 

APPLE  FRITTERS 

2  cups  flour  1  egg 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder     Butter  size  of  egg 

34  teaspon  salt  Milk  to  make  soft  dough 

2  cups  apple  sauce 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  rub  in  butter,  add  egg  mixed 
with  milk  enough  to  make  soft  dough  for  rolling.  Roll  thin,  cut 
with  large  biscuit  cutter,  moisten  with  milk  the  edges  of  half  the 
number  cut,  and  place  in  the  center  a  spoonful  of  apple  sauce. 
Cover  with  the  remaining  dough  biscuits  and  press  edges  to- 
gether with  a  fork.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  These  may  be  served  with 
first  course  or  as  a  dessert  with  pudding  sauce. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES  23 

BANANA  FRITTERS  NO.  1 

3  bananas  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder      Salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  Milk 

Cut  bananas  in  halves  lengthwise,  divide  these  slices  in  mid- 
dle lay  on  plate,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  leave  five  minutes.  Dip 
in  batter,  fry  in  deep  fat.  Place  on  platter  and  pour  over  them 
the  following  sauce: 

Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  y2  cup  water 

1  tablespoon  butter  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Boil  all  together  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

BANANA  FRITTERS  NO.  2 

1  cup  flour  ]/2  cup  or  more  of  milk 

Yt  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

1  rounded  teaspoon  baking     3  bananas 

powder  Crisco 

\Yz  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  flour,  salt,  sugar,  milk,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  then 
sliced  bananas.  Drop  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time  in  deep  hot  crisco. 

RICE  FRITTERS 

1  cup  boiled  rice  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
YZ  pint  milk  Flour  to  make  stiff  batter 

2  or  3  eggs 

Mix  ingredients  together  and  fry  in  small  cakes. 
Hominy  may  be  prepared  same  way. 

STRAWBERRY  FRITTERS 

2  eggs  Yz  cup  cold  water 

1  teaspoon  salt  1   teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  cup  flour 

2  teaspoons  oil  1  cup  strawberries 

Cut  strawberries  into  quarters  and  let  drain  ten  minutes. 
Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately.  Add  salt,  sugar,  oil, 
and  water  to  yolks.  Sift  baking  powder  and  flour,  then  add 
giadually  to  mixture.  Add  strawberries  and  fold  in  the  whipped 
egg  whites  just  before  cooking.  Fry  by  spoonfuls  in  deep  crisco. 
Sufficient  for  twenty-six  fritters. 


24  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

FRIED  ARTICHOKES 

1^2  dozen  artichokes  Butter 

Flour 

Boil  the  artichokes  and  cool.  Take  out  hearts,  scrape  off 
the  soft  part  of  leaves,  dredge  with  flour,  fry  in  butter  or  crisco. 
Make  patties  and  fry.  Artichokes  may  be  served  with  fried  pro- 
tose,  or  with  a  gravy. 

GREEN  PEA  TIMBALES 

1  pint  pea  pulp  Salt 

4  eggs  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  Few  drops  onion  juice 
Y±  cup  cream  (if  desired) 

Mix  pea-pulp  with  seasonings,  cream,  yolks,  butter  and  last 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Pour  into  buttered  cups,  place 
in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  twenty  minutes,  or  until  firm.  Turn 
out  on  hot  dish  and  serve  with  white  sauce. 

GREEN  SUMMER  SQUASH  WITH  EGGS 

6  squash  1  clove  garlic 

4  eggs  1  spoonful  grated  cheese 

1  medium-sized  onion  2  tablespoons  oil  or  butter 

1  cup  milk 

Fry  onion  and  garlic  in  oil  until  almost  brown,  add  squash. 
cut  in  square  slices.  Stir  constantly  to  prevent  sticking.  Add 
milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  eggs  to  which  add  cheese,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  a  little  butter,  beating  constantly.  When  squash  is 
cooked,  add  this  mixture  and  cook  until  egg  is  done. 

HOMINY  BAKED 

2  cups  cold  cooked  hominy    1  teaspoon  sugar 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter     1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  1  egg,  beaten 

Mix,  and  pour  into  well  buttered  pan  and  bake  for  thirty 
minutes. 

HOMINY  LOAF  NO.  1 

1  can  hominy,  chopped  2  tablespoons  oil 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  onion  salt 

Y*  cup  bread  crumbs  A  few  seedless  raisins 

3  large  tomatoes  A  few  whole  olives 

Slice  and  fry  tomatoes  in  the  oil,  add  other  ingredients,  then 
salt,  stirring  egg  in  last.  Put  into  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES         25 

bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  bake  half  an  hour.     Turn  out 
on  platter,  serve. 

HOMINY  LOAF  NO.  2 

1  can  hominy,  chopped  1  pint  tomatoes 

1  cup  white  cornmeal  A  few  olives  and  raisins 

2  tablespoons  oil  Salt 

Put  oil  in  sauce-pan,  add  tomatoes;  when  hot  add  cornmeal 
and  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  add  other  ingredients.  Put  into 
oiled  baking  pan  and  bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Turn 
out  on  platter,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with  gravy  or  to- 
mato sauce. 

(  HOMINY  SOUFFLE 

1  can  or  iy2  cups  cooked      1  cup  milk 
hominy  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  hominy  with  yolks  of  eggs,  milk,  salt,  and  melted  but- 
ter. Fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  buttered 
baking-dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  firm,  about 
thirty  minutes. 

HUGOLINI 

l/2  package  noodles  Vegex 

1  quart  strained  tomato  Salt,  pepper 

1  large  onion  Bay  Leaf 

YZ  cup  dry  mushrooms  Kitchen  Bouquet  or  other 

(soaked  in  warm  water)         Savories 

Fry  onion  in  oil,  add  tomato,  and  seasoning.  Simmer  mush- 
rooms until  tender,  chop,  add  last  to  mixture  using  liquor  also. 
Pour  this  over  noodles,  that  have  boiled  hard  in  salted  water  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Simmer  together  one  hour,  stirring  occasional- 
ly. If  too  dry  add  tomato  or  water.  Bake  in  buttered  baking 
dish  forty  minutes.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  top. 

LENTIL  CURHY 

1  cup  lentils  1  teaspoon  curry  powder 

2  tablepoons  melted  butter     ^  pint  lentil  water 
2  onions  chopped  fine 

Soak  the  lentils  over  night  in  cold  water,  wash  and  cover 
with  fresh  water  and  cook  slowly  two  hours,  or  in  fireless  cook- 
er over  night,  drain.  Put  the  melted  butter  in  saucepan,  add 
onions,  cook  slowly  until  a  golden  brown,  add  curry  powder,  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  half  pint  of  water  in  which  lentils  were 
cooked.  Add  lentils,  salt,  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Use  to- 
mato juice  instead  of  water  if  desired. 


26  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

LENTILS   WITH   NOODLES 

1  pint  lentils  3   tablespoon  olive  oil 

1  pint  tomatoes  1  package  noodles 

1  onion  1  teaspoon  Kitchen  Bouquet 

Wash  lentils  thoroughly  and  soak  overnight,  drain  and  cov- 
er with  fresh  water,  boil  two  hours  and  pour  off  most  of  water. 
Fry  onion  in  oil,  add  tomatoes,  "Kitchen  Bouquet,"  salt,  lentils, 
and  cook  together.  Boil  noodles  in  salted  water  fifteen  minutes. 
Place  noodles  on  platter  and  pour  lentils  over  them. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES 

J4  package  macaroni  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  milk  V2  teaspoon  salt,  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  egg 

Cook  macaroni  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and 
chop  fine.  Heat  the  milk  and  stir  into  it  the  paste  made  from 
the  butter  and  flour,  add  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Cook  until 
thickened.  Pour  this  over  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Put  in  dou- 
ble boiler  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  add  macaroni,  remove  from 
fire  and  when  cool,  shape.  Beat  white  of  egg  slightly.  Dip 
croquettes  first  in  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  to  golden  brown.  Serve  with  cheese  sauce,  or  other 
sauce. 

VARIATIONS   IN  MACARONI 
Scalloped  Onions  with  Macaroni 
Cooked  onions  Cooked  macaroni 

Mix  recipe  ingredients  and  add  one-half  cup  milk  and  one- 
half  cup  grated  mild  cheese.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  with  three-fourths  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs,  and 
bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Macaroni  Croquettes 

Combine  white  sauce  and  onions  and  nib  through  sieve. 
Add  macaroni  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  and  spread  on  a  plate  to 
cool.  Shape  in  form  of  croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and 
crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Onion  Souffle 

Combine  white  sauce,  onions  and  macaroni,  and  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  until  thick  and  lem- 
on color.  Fold  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and 
dry.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES  27 

MACARONI  SAUCE  SOUBISE 

1  pint  onions  Y*  cup  white  sauce 

l/2  cup  macaroni  Y*  teaspon  salt 

YZ  cup  milk  Y*  teaspoon  paprika 

Peel  onions  and  cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water 
until  tender;  then  drain.  Break  macaroni  into  inch  pieces,  cook- 
twenty  minutes  in  two  quarts  of  salted  water.  Drain  in  strainer, 
rinse  to  prevent  pieces  from  adhering.  For  the  white  sauce  melt 
three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly, half  cup  milk ;  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  season. 
Combine  onions  and  white  sauce,  add  half  cup  milk.  Rub 
through  sieve.  Bring  to  boiling  point.  Pour  over  macaroni. 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley. 

MACARONI  WITH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

1  cup  macaroni  1  tablespoon  chopped 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  pimentos 

YZ  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  minced  onion 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter      1  cup  grated  cheese 
1  can  mushrooms  Parsley   (minced) 

1  tablespoon  flour  Salt,  pepper,  garlic 

Break  macaroni  into  inch  pieces  and  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  in  colander,  pour  cold  water 
over  it.  Put  butter,  onion,  garlic,  one  tablespoon  of  water  in 
saucepan  and  simmer  until  onion  is  tender.  Mix  all  ingredients 
together,  put  into  flat  pan  lined  well  with  greased  paper.  Bake 
forty  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Cut  into  squares  and  serve 
with  mushroom  sauce. 

MACARONI  MOLD 

4  ounces  macaroni  3/2  teaspoon  herbs 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1  onion,  chopped 

1  cup  hot  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  chopped  nuts    2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  chopped  pars-     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

ley 

Break  the  macaroni  in  small  pieces  and  boil  until  tender. 
Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk  five  minutes ;  add  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients and  steam  for  one  hour. 


28  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MACARONI  SQUARES 

3  heaping  cups  cooked  I  level  teaspoon  salt 

.macaroni  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  minced  pimento 

3  eggs  Grated  cheese 

Beat  eggs,  add  milk,  mix  in  the  macaroni,  salt  and  pimento. 
Spread  butter  on  an  oblong  shallow  pan  and  pour  in  mixture. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes.  Five  minutes  before 
serving  sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  top.  Return  to  oven  and 
brown.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  on  platter  with  tomato  or 
mushroom  sauce. 

MONKEY 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  y$  teaspoon  red  pepper 

1  cup  cheese    (fresh,  cut       1  egg 
in  small  pieces) 

Put  ingredients  into  saucepan  (do  not  beat  egg  separately) 
and  stir  over  fire  until  creamy.  Place  on  crackers  and  serve  im- 
mediately. A  good  supper  dish. 

NOODLES  HOME-MADE 

2  eggs  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  water  Flour  to  make  stiff  dough 

Beat  eggs  until  light.  Add  water  and  salt.  Add  flour 
gradually  until  dough  is  stiff.  Roll  dough  into  very  thin  sheets 
and  lay  separately  on  table  to  dry.  When  almost  dry,  place  in 
piles  of  three  or  four  and  fold  into  small  rolls.  Cut  with  a  sharp 
knife  into  ribbons  one-quarter  inch  wide.  Spread  and  dry  thor- 
oughly. These  noodles  can  be  used  as  a  substitute  for  macaroni. 

NOODLES,  FRIED 

Drop  noodles  into  boiling  water,  salted,  and  allow  to  cook 
ten  minutes.  Add  one  cup  of  cold  water,  drain  in  colander.  Fry 
in  butter,  place  in  dish  and  sprinkle  top  with  bread  crumbs  fried 
brown  in  butter. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES         29 

NUT  AND  PKOTOSE  SAUSAGES 

1  cup  boiled  rice  1  teaspoon  grated  onion 

1  cup  chopped  peanuts  l/±  teaspoon  poultry  seasoning 

\l/2  cups  left-over  mush  or  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Walnut  Roast  2  eggs  (unbeaten) 
l/2  can  Protose 

Mix  in  order  given,  roll  into  sausages,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and 
flour,  fry  in  deep  crisco. 

NUT  CUTLETS 

1  cup  walnuts,  chopped  1  tablespoon  oil 

1  cup  boiled  rice  Salt,  pepper,  sage 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Milk 

l.egg 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  to  make  quite  moist.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Make  into  small  patties,  roll  in  crack- 
er crumbs,  fry  in  small  quantity  of  oil,  butter  or  crisco. 

NUT  LOAF  NO.  1 

1  cup  boiled  rice  2  beaten  eggs 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs          2  small  onions,  chopped  fine 

2  cups    chopped    walnuts  and  browned  in  butter 

or  peanuts  Salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley 

2  cups  solid  canned  toma-       Mashed  potatoes 

toes 

Mold  into  a  roll.  Spread  with  a  covering  of  mashed  po- 
tatoes and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  well  browned.  Serve  with 
mushroom,  tomato  or  brown  gravy. 

NUT  LOAF  NO.  2 

y2  cup  uncooked  rice  ^  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Y-2.  cup  dry  bread  crumbs        1  teaspoon  salt 
2  eggs  y%  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  chopped  pars-     Dash  of  cayenne 

ley  3  tablespoons  butter 

Cook  rice  one  hour  in  double  boiler.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
salt,  pepper,  parsley,  bread  crumbs,  and  beat  well.  Add  eggs 
well  beaten,  then  nuts.  Put  into  buttered  tin  for  five  minutes 
to  mold.  Drop  into  baking  pan  in  which  butter  has  been  melted. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  fre- 
quently with  melted  butter.  Make  drawn  butter  sauce  with  re- 


30  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

maining  butter,  by  adding  two  tablespoons  flour    and    boiling 
water. 

PEANUT  TOAST  WITH  BROWN  GRAVY 

1  pint  milk  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter 

1   cup   roasted  peanuts,  Salt 

chopped  Toast 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Brown  flour  in  skillet,  put  in  butter,  let  it  melt  and  stir 
through  the  flour,  add  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  stir,  season.  Dip 
toast  in  boiling  water  to  soften.  Place  on  platter,  pour  gravy 
over  toast,  sprinkle  ground  peanuts  on  top  and  serve. 

PEANUT  LOAF 

1  cup  roasted  peanuts  2  eggs 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  onion  juice 

2  cups  water  Sage 

Grind  the  peanuts,  mix  with  the  bread  crumbs,  put  in  sage, 
salt  and  onion  juice,  add  water  and  let  soak  two  hours.  If  too 
dry  add  more  water,  drop  in  eggs  unbeaten  and  stir.  The  ad- 
dition of  a  little  olive  oil  gives  a  nice  flavor.  Bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  or  without  tomatc 
sauce. 

PEAS  WITH  EGG  DUMPLING  (Italian) 

1  quart  of  shelled  peas  3  tablespoons  ground  bread 

3  tablespoons  oil,  butter  or    1  tablespoon  grated  cheese 
crisco  Parsley 

1  medium-sized  onion  Salt,  pepper 

1  small  clove  garlic  Kitchen  Bouquet 

2  eggs 

Fry  onions  until  light  brown,  add  finely  chopped  garlic,  one 
cup  water,  and  peas.  Stir  for  ten  minutes,  then  cover  with  wa- 
ter, add  pepper,  salt  and  a  scant  half  teaspoon  of  "Kitchen  Bou- 
quet." Let  cook  slowly,  keeping  peas  covered  with  water. 

Dumplings 

Beat  eggs  and  add  bread  crumbs,  cheese,  parsley,  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  little  butter.  When  peas  are  cooked,  add  the  mixture 
by  spoonfuls,  and  let  cook  about  ten  minutes.  Serve  on  platter, 
garnish  with  the  dumplings. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES         31 

POTATO  PANCAKES 

6  potatoes  1  cup  flour 

1  onion  (small)  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs 

Grate  potatoes  and  onion,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  and 
flour.  Have  skillet  very  hot  and  fry  in  crisco  in  little  cakes. 
Serve  with  apple  sauce. 

POTATO  AND  NUT  LOAF 

1  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes    2  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  Milk 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Butter 

Mix  nuts,  potatoes,  salt,  pepper,  eggs  well  beaten  and  bread 
crumbs  together,  add  enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Form 
into  a  neat  loaf,  lay  on  a  buttered  tin,  place  a  few  pieces  of  but- 
ter on  top.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley or  serve  with  a  sauce. 

PROTOSE 

Protose  is  a  vegetarian  product  similar  in  composition  to 
meat.  It  consists  of  nuts  and  grains,  and  is  free  from  all  ani- 
mal fats.  It  is  manufactured  by  The  Kellog  Food  Company, 
Battle  Creek,  Mich.  It  is  put  up  in  one  pound  cans.  In  the 
recipes  given  in  this  book,  "The  Original"  Protose  is  used. 

PROTOSE  ITALIAN  STYLE 

4  cups  macaroni  1  pint  can  tomato  sauce 

1  can  Savory  Protose  (Spanish  style,  Del  Monte 

6  tablespoons  olive  oil  Brand) 

1  onion  2  level  teaspoons  Vegex 

1  tomato  YL  teaspoon  Kitchen  Bouquet 

YZ  teaspoon  poultry  seasoning 
Salt 

Wash  macaroni  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  in  salted  water. 
Drain  in  colander.  Dice  protose,  fry  brown  in  oil,  add  one  cup 
water,  onion  chopped  or  grated,  tomato  sauce,  Vegex,  Kitchen 
Bouquet,  poultry  seasoning.  Add  salt  last,  as  Vegex  contains 
salt.  Place  one  half  the  macaroni  in  an  earthen  baking  dish,  add 
one  half  protose  mixture.  Repeat.  Cover  with  slices  of  tomato. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour. 


32  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

PROTOSE  HAMBURG  STYLE 

1  can  Savory  Protose  1  tablespoon  grated  onion 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

24  cup  dry  bread  crumbs       ><  teaspoon  salt 
1  egg  l/4  teaspoon  sage 

Mash  protose  with  wooden  spoon  or  potato  masher,  add 
other  ingredients  in  order  given.  If  the  egg  does  not  make  the 
mixture  soft  enough  to  form  into  patties,  add  a  little  milk.  Roll 
patties  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  as  hamburg  steak  is  fried. 

PROTOSE  STEAK 

Remove  protose  whole  from  can,  cut  crosswise  in  quarter 
inch  slices  and  fry.  Serve  with  brown  gravy  or  tomato  sauce 
or  tomato  gravy. 

PROTOSE  ROAST 

Turn  out  whole  from  can,  cut  in  half,  place  in  buttered  or 
oiled  pan,  dot  with  pieces  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  baste  with 
hot  water  occasionally.  Roast  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  mod- 
erate oven.  Serve  on  platter,  and  pour  over  it  a  gravy  or  tomato 
sauce.  Serves  four. 


1  quart  potatoes  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  can  protose  1  teaspoon  Vegex 

2  tablespoons  crisco  Salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Onion  salt 

Cut  protose  into  cubes  and  fry  brown  in  crisco,  remove  pro- 
tose. Put  butter  into  the  hot  skillet,  stir  in  flour,  add  enough 
warm  water  to  make  medium  thick  gravy,  cook  for  five  minutes. 
Stir  frequently,  season  with  Vegex,  salt,  onion  salt.  Return 
protose  to  pan  of  gravy.  Have  potatoes  partly  cooked  and  cut 
into  cubes.  Pour  protose  and  gravy  over  these  and  simmer  for 
half  hour.  Serve  on  platter  with  border  of  Diamond  Fritteers. 

Fritters 

\l/2  cup  flour  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

\l/2   teaspoon  baking  pow-    1  egg 

der,  heaping  Milk- 

Mix  ingredients,  cut  into  diamond  shape.    Fry  in  deep  crisco. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES  33 

PROTOSE  AND  RICE 

2  cups  rice  2  tablespoons  oil 

1  can  protose  1  onion  or  1  teaspoon  onion 

3  large  tomatoes  salt 

Fry  onion  and  tomatoes  in  oil  and  season  with  salt.  Cut 
protose  into  small  cubes  and  fry  in  butter  until  brown,  remove 
the  protose  and  make  gravy  by  adding  the  tomatoes  and  onion, 
thicken  with  flour,  then  put  back  the  protose  and  let  simmer  for 
fifteen  minutes. 

.  Boil  the  rice  in  plenty  of  salted  water,  when  done  drain  and 
put  around  platter  and  place  protose  and  gravy  in  center.  Will 
serve  six. 


PROTOSE  AND  MUSHROOMS 

1  can  protose  (diced)  1  pint  can  of  mushrooms 

YZ   loaf  bread   (diced) 

FYy  protose  in  butter  until  brown,  remove  protose,  and  fry 
bread  until  brown.  Remove,  and  make  gravy  using  the  liquid 
from  mushrooms  and  enough  flour  to  thicken  same.  A  little 
water  may  be  used  to  increase  the  quantity.  Season  to  taste.  Put 
mushrooms  in  the  gravy  and  let  simmer  for  ten  minutes.  Place 
bread  and  protose  on  platter  and  cover  with  mushroom  gravy. 

RICE  POTATO  LOAP 

1  cup  rice,  boiled  in  plenty     1  egg 

of  salted  water  until  done    Sage,  salt,  pepper  and  onion 
6  medium-sized  potatoes  salt 

Mash  potatoes,  mix  with  rice,  season  with  sage,  salt,  pepper 
and  union  salt,  stir  in  egg.  Bake  in  buttered  dish  until  thor- 
oughly brown,  turn  out  on  platter.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Serves 
six. 


ITALIAN  RICE 

YZ  cup  olive  oil  1  cup  rice 

1  clove  garlic  Onion 

Put  olive  oil  into  a  kettle  and  heat,  slice  in  garlic,  onion,  add 
dry  rice,  stir  until  golden  brown,  then  add  one  can  tomatoes, 
cook  slowly  until  done,  stirring  frequently. 


34  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MEXICAN  RICE 

2  tablespoons  crisco  1  clove  igarlic 

1  cup  cooked  rice  2  cups  boiling  water 

1  cup  tomatoes  Salt,  pepper 

2  small  onions   (sliced) 

Heat  crisco  in  skillet,  add  rice  and  fry  until  brown,  then 
other  ingredients,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  half 
an  hour. 

RICE  PATTIES 

2^  cups  boiled  rice  I  level  tablespoon  flour 

Yt  cup  chopped  walnuts          1  teaspoon  salt 
1  egg  Pepper 

Mix  ingredients,  form  into  patties,  fry  brown  in  crisco. 

RICE  CROQUETTES 

1  cup  boiled  rice  Bread  crumbs 

1  white  of  egg  Cornmeal 

Add  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg  to  rice,  shape,  and  roll  in 
powdered  bread  crumbs  or  cornmeal  and  flour.  Fry  brown  in 
deep  crisco  or  oil. 

RICE  CAKES 

Prepare  as  for  croquettes  and  fry  as  cakes  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Serve  with  maple  syrup.  A  nice  supper  dish. 

RICE  SAVORY 

2  cups  rice  l/2  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
2  cups  grated  cheese                3  eggs 

YZ  teaspon  salt  3  pints  milk 

Boil  rice  in  two  quarts  salted  water  for  twenty  minutes.  Mix 
grateed  cheese,  salt,  mustard,  and  add  to  cooked  rice,  then  well 
beaten  eggs  and  heated  milk.  Bake  in  buttered  baking  dish  un- 
til custard  is  formed. 

SCALLOPED  RICE  WITH  TOMATES 

Canned  tomatoes  Butter 

Rice  Salt  Pepper 

Bread  crumbs 

Put  canned  tomatoes  through  coarse  sieve  to  remove  seeds. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Mix  equal  parts  of  boiled 
rice  and  tomatoes  and  place  in  buttered  baking  pan,  layer  about 
with  dried  bread  crumbs.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  top  and 
bake  half  an  hour. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES  35 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATO 

1  quart  tomatoes  ]/2  Ib.  cheese 

^2  Ib.  spaghetti  Butter,  salt,  pepper 

Drop  spaghetti  into  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  about  fif- 
teen minutes.  Drain,  and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Put  into  but- 
tered baking  pan  layer  about  of  spaghetti  and  tomatoes.  Season 
each  layer.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  a  half  hour.  Cover  with 
grated  cheese  and  return  to  oven  to  melt. 

SPINACH  WITH  TOAST 

2  tablespoons  oil  Cold, spinach 

3  large  tomatoes  or  1  pint     Toasted  bread 
canned  tomatoes  Hard-boiled  eggs 

2  teaspoons  flour  Salt,  onion  salt 

Heat  spinach  in  a  little  butter,  and  spread  on  hot  buttered 
toast.  Place  in  center  of  each  slice  half  of  a  hard-boiled  egg. 
Serve  with  tomato  gravy. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS  (Hoover  Style) 

Cut  stem  ends  from  green  peppers,  remove  seeds,  fill  with  anj 
of  following  mixtures  and  replace  caps,  bake. 

1.  Boiled  rice,  ground  nuts,  tomato  juice,  seasoning. 

2.  Grated  corn   (or  canned  corn  chopped  fine),    chopped 
olives,  minced  onion  and  bread,  toast  or  cracker  crumbs. 

3.  All   left-over   vegetables,   nut   or  cereal   mixtures,   cro- 
quettes, or  souffles,  mixed  with  crumbs  and  moistened  with  to- 
mato or  very  thick  cream  sauce,  adding  any  desired  seasoning. 

4.  Boiled  noodles,  nutose,  tomato,  and  seasoning. 

5.  Boiled  macaroni,  chopped  mushrooms.,  ground  nuts  or 
olives  and  crumbs. 

6.  Chopped  hominy,  any  cooked  cereal,  raisins,  olives,  to- 
matoes, salt,  pepper. 

STUFFED  SUMMER  SQUASH 

1  long  Italian  squash  Cheese 

1  onion  Butter 

4  slices  stale  bread   (or  Salt,  pepper 
bread  crumbs)  Parsley   (minced) 

2  eggs 

Fry  onion  in  butter  or  olive  oil.  Cut  squash  lengthwise  and 
scoop  out  the  inside,  add  this  to  the  fried  onion,  cover  tight  and 


36  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

let  steam  until  squash  is  tender.  Moisten  bread  or  crumbs  with 
a  little  water  and  add  to  squash,  then  eggs,  and  seasoning.  Re- 
fill shells,  cover  with  grated  cheese  and  bits  of  butter.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. 


SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

10  sweet  potatoes  1  teaspoon  butter 

2  eggs  Salt 

1  cup  boiling  milk 

Mash  sweet  potatoes,  add  eggs,  boiling  milk,  butter,  and 
salt.  Mould,  dip  in  egg  and  cracked  crumbs,  and  drop  in  deep 
fat. 


TAMALE  LOAF 

1  can  corn  1  cup  olives 

1  cup  tomato  sauce  1  onion,  chopped  fine 

1  cup  cornmeal  (uncooked)  2  cloves  garlic,  cut  fine 

2  eggs  beaten  1  teaspoon  pepper 
y$  cup  milk  1  slice  butter 

Mix  ingredients  together,  season.  Put  into  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  half  an  hour. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  BEANS 

Remove  pulp  from  tomatoes,  fill  cases  with  left-over  baked 
beans  mixed  with  a  part  of  the  pulp  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pep- 
per, olive  oil.  Cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs,  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  MACAKONI 

7  large  tomatoes  T/3  cup  grated  cheese 

1^2  cups  cut  macaroni  J4  small  can  pimento 

V/2  cups  White  Sauce  Salt,  onion  salt 


Wash  macaroni  thoroughly,  boil  twenty  minutes,  drain  and 
rinse.  Make  white  sauce,  adding  pimento,  cheese  and  season- 
ing, cook  long  enough  to  melt  cheese,  mix  with  macaroni,  add 
egg.  Fill  tomatoes  from  which  centers  have  been  scooped.  Bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES  37 

BAKED  TOMATO  AND  EGG  PLANT 

1  cup  cream  Rice  or  spaghetti 

8  large  tomatoes  Grated  cheese 

Egg  plant  Salt,  pepper 

Green  pepper 

Pour  cream  in  deep  dish.  Slice  egg  plant  very  thin,  line 
bottom  of  dish,  to  this  add  layer  of  tomatoes  sliced,  a  layer  of 

rice  or  spaghettic,  sprinkle  with  cheese,  salt,  pepper,  a  layer  of 

tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  chopped  green  pepper.  Last  a  layer  of 
egg  plant.  Bake. 

BAKED  TOMATOES  AND  CORN 

3  small  cans  tomatoes  1  cup  stuffed  ripe  olives 

1  can  corn  Cheese 

Mix  tomatoes,  corn,  olives,  and  spread  slices  of  cheese  on 
top  and  bake. 

TOMATO  NEWBERG 

Brown  together  a  half  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  on- 
ion and  butter,  size  of  walnut,  add  a  pint  of  tomatoes  and  sea- 
son. When  hot  add  three  eggs.  Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  drop 
the  unbroken  yokes  into  whites,  pour  this  into  the  tomato  and 
mix  a  littlee.  Serve  on  toast. 

TURKISH  PILAF 

2  cups  rice  1  cup  tomato  juice 

2  tablespoons  butter  Onion  salt,  and  salt 

Wash  and  dry  in  cloth  two  cups  of  rice.  Fry  rice  in  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  add  one  cup  of  tomato  juice,  season,  then 
boil  in  about  four  cups  of  water,  either  in  double  boiler  or  fire- 
less  cooker.  If  any  is  left  over  can  be  made  into  croquettes  by 
using  protose,  nuts,  bread  crumbs  and  egg. 

VARIATIONS  IN  SHREDDED  WHEAT  BISCUITS 

1.  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  with  Tomato. — Stew  tomatoes, 
season  with  butter,  salt,  sugar  and  pepper.     Pour  this  over  the 
toasted  biscuits. 

2.  Shredded   Wheat    Biscuits   with   Cheese. — Over   Shred- 
ded Wheat  Biscuits  sprinkle  grated  cheese   (a  cheese  that    will 
melt),   salt  and  paprika.     Toast  in  oven  until  brown. 


38  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

3.  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuits  halved,  toasted  and  buttered, 
served — • 

(a)  with  white  sauce  No.  1  and  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs. 

(b)  with  browned  flour  gravy. 

(c)  with  poached  eggs. 

(d)  with  clams  or  oysters 

VEGETABLE  STEW  WITH  DUMPLINGS 

6  carrots  2  Ibs.  peas 

6  small  turnips  1  onion 

1  large  head  celery  Butter  and  seasoning 
3  tomatoes 

Cut  vegetables  in  medium  sized  pieces,  cover  with  water  and 
cook  until  tender,  add  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  salt  to  taste ; 
thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  with  cold  water.  Peas 
should  be  cooked  in  separate  kettle.  Serve  on  large  platter  plac- 
ing dumplings  on  edge  and  vegetables  in  center  and  peas  on  top. 

Dumplings 

2  cups  flour  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 

1  egg  powder 

Y-Z  cup  raisins  Milk  to  make  soft  dough 

*4  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  ingredients,  form  into  a  long  roll,  cut  into  twelve  pieces, 
and  drop  into  boiling -stew,  cook  for  half  hour. 

VEGETABLE  STEW  WITH  RICE 

2  heads  celery  1  teaspoon  Vegex 

3  turnips  2  tablespoons  flour 
o  tomatoes  (medium-sized)     Salt 

6  potatoes  Parsley 

2  carrots  Boiled  rice 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Cut,  celery,  turnips,  tomatoes,  carrots,  in  medium  sized 
pieces,  season,  add  sufficient  water  to  cover,  and  boil  an  hour 
and  a  half,  then  add  potatoes.  When  potatoes  are  tender,  add 
thickening.  Serve  on  large  platter  with  border  of  boiled  rice. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  AND  ENTREES         39 

WALNUT  CROQUETTES 

1  cup  boiled  rice  2  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  walnuts  Sage 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Salt,  pepper 

1  teaspoon  olive  oil 

Mix  above  ingredients,  adding  enough  water  to  moisten  for 
handling.  Form  into  cone-shaped  croquettes  and  fry  in  deep 
crisco  or  form  into  patties  and  fry.  A  little  tomato  or  lemon 
juice,  also  onion  salt,  may  be  added.  These  may  be  served  with 
tomato  sauce  or  brown  gravy. 

WALNUT  STEAK 

1  cup  white  flour  Salt 

1  cup  oatmeal  Sage 

1  cup  cornmeal  Vegex 

2  cups  chopped  walnuts  Onion  juice 
8  cups  water 

Brown  flour  and  meal  in  oven  or  in  skillet,  add  seasoning 
and  nuts,  moisten  with  two  cups  cold  water,  then  stir  in  six 
cups  of  boiling  water.  Fill  four  ordinary  baking  powder  cans 
and  steam  three  hours.  Slice  and  fry.  This  will  keep  several 
days,  and  may  be  made  into  Walnut  Roast  or  Croquettes. 

WALNUT  ROAST 

Use  walnut  steak,  add  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  olive  oil, 
poultry  seasoning,  one  teaspoon  Vegex.  Form  into  a  mound 
on  baking  platter  or  tin,  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Pour 
over  this  tomato  sauce  and  serve.  What  remains  may  be  com- 
bined with  rice,  cornmeal  mush,  or  similar  left-overs  and  made 
into  patties. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

GRAVIES  and  SAUCES 


BROWN  GRAVY 

2   tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  Kitchen  Bouquet 

4  tablespoons  flour  Y±  teaspoon  onion  salt 

1  teaspoon  Vegex  Water 

Stir  flour  into  melted  butter,  add  enough  water  to  make 
right  consistency,  season  with  Vegex,  Kitchen  Bouquet,  salt. 
Boil  ten  minutes,  stir  frequently. 

Flavor  may  be  varied  by  adding  grated  onion,  tomato  juice, 
poultry  seasoning,  etc. 

BROWN  FLOUR  GRAVY 

Put  four  tablespoons  of  flour  into  a  skillet  and  brown 
slightly,  stir  constantly  to  prevent  burning,  add  two  large  ta- 
blespoons butter  and  stir  until  butter  is  melted.  Then  add  enough 
warm  milk  to  make  the  desired  consistency.  Season  to  taste. 
This  makes  a  tasty  supper  dish  when  poured  over  toasted  crack- 
ers and  garnished  with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs. 

EGG  SAUCE 

4  tablespoons  flour  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

2  large  tablespoons  butter       Milk 

Put  butter  into  pan  and  melt,  add  flour  and  stir  well.  Pour 
in  milk  enough  to  make  the  desired  consistency,  then  add  eggs 
which  have  been  pressed  through  a  ricer  or  cut  fine.  Season  to 
taste. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  small  can  mushrooms 

2  tablespoon  flour  or 

l/2  teaspoon  Vegex  l/2   cup  dried  mushrooms 

*4  teaspoon  Kitchen  Water 

/Bouquet  Salt 

Stir  flour  into  melted  butter,  add  enough  warm  water  to 
make  right  consistency,  season  with  Vegex,  Kitchen  Bouquet, 
mushrooms,  salt  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  If  canned  mushrooms 
are  used  add  with  their  water :  if  dried,  soak  one  hour  in  warm 
water,  chop  and  add  with  their  water. 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES  41 

TOMATO  GRAVY 

3  large  tomatoes  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Vegex 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt,  onion  salt 

Fry  tomatoes  in  oil,  season  with  salt,  onion  salt.  Melt  but- 
ter in  another  pan,  stir  in  flour,  add  sufficient  water  to  make  de- 
sired consistency,  to  this  add  tomatoes  and  Vegex. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  pint  tomatoes 

2  tablespoons  flour  Salt 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  stir,  add  strained  tomatoes,  season 
to  taste,  boil  five  minutes. 

WHITE  SAUCE  NO.  1 

2  cups  milk  Butter  size  of  egg 

2  rounded  tablespoons  flour     Salt 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  stir  in  flour  until  smooth,  add 
enough  milk  to  make  the  desired  consistency.  Milk  may  be  hot 
or  cold.  Salt  to  taste.  All  gravies  and  sauces  are  best  made  in 
this  way. 


Chop  fine  one  dozen  green  olives  and  two  medium    sized 
pickles,  mix  with  this  one  cupful  of  mayonnaise. 

WHITE  SAUCE  NO.  2 

4  tablespoons  flour  2  cups  milk 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  butter  in  pan,  stir  in  flour  and  salt,  add  gradually  the 
hot,  but  not  scalded,  milk  and  cook  five  minutes. 


CHAPTER  V. 

VEGETABLES 

BAKED  SUMMER  SQUASH 

Cut  stem  ends  off  squash  and  scoop  centers.  Boil  removed 
portion,  with  a  stnall  onion,  in  water  until  tender.  Drain  and 
add  seasoning'  of  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Fill  shells,  cover  witn 
buttered  bread  crumbs.  Put  in  pan  with  a  little  water  in  bot- 
tom and  bake  one  hour. 

BAKED  SUMMER  SQUASH  WITH  PIMENTOS 

]/2  dozen  summer  squash        2  tablespoons  flour 

1  small  can  pimentos  Salt 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Pare,  wash,  slice  summer  squash,  put  into  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  in  layers.  Season  each  layer  with  chopped  pimentos  and 
bits  of  butter  and  flour  mixed  together.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
one  hour. 

FRIED  SUMMER  SQUASH 

Peel  Italian  summer  squash,  slice  one-half  inch  thick,  fn 
in  enough  fat  to  keep  from  sticking.  In  serving,  dot  with  butter. 

BAKED  HUBBARD  SQUASH  NO.  1 

Cut  squash  in  medium  sized  pieces  and  boil  in  shell  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  shell,  mash,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  plenty  of  butter,  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

BAKED  HUBBARD  SQUASH  NO.  2 

Cut  squash  in  five  inch  squares,  sprinkle  lightly  with  stigar, 
dot  with  butter,  bake  until  tender  and  serve  in  the  shell  in  large 
platter. 


VEGETABLES  43 

BROWN  CREAMED  POTATOES 

Slice  cold  potatoes  in  frying  pan,  put  a  large  lump  of  but- 
ter in  the  center,  sprinkle  flour,  salt,  pepper  over  the  top,  pour  in 
milk  until  the  potatoes  begin  to  float,  then  chop  up  potatoes  with 
a  chopping  knife  while  they  are  heating.  Place  in  oven  until 
done. 

BUTTERED  BOILED  RICE 

Wash  one-half  cup  rice  in  running  water,  stirring  vigorous- 
ly with  the  hand  to  free  it  from  any  of  its  flour.  This  will  aid 
in  preventing  it  from  being  sticky  when  cooked.  This  quantity 
of  rice  should  be  cooked  in  a  quart  kettle.  Add  scant  cup  cold 
water  and  a  little  salt.  Put  the  cover  on  tight  and  set  on  fire. 
In  about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  it  will  begin  to  boil  over.  Do 
not  lift  the  lid  but  allow  it  to  boil  over,  until  the  lid  no  longer 
trembles.  Then  set  further  back  on  stove,  where  it  can  steam 
and  keep  very  hot,  without  boiling,  for  forty-five  minutes.  At 
the  end  of  the  first  hour  the  rice  should  look  dry  and  be  separ- 
ate. Add  enough  rich  milk  to  cover  it.  Cover  and  set  over  mod- 
erate fire  and  bring  to  a  gentle  boil  for  several  minutes.  Slide 
to  back  of  stove  as  before,  placing  asbestos  mat  under  it.  Let 
remain  forty-five  minutes.  The  kernels  should  by  this  time  be 
very  large.  Set  into  double  boiler  or  pan  of  hot  water  where  it 
can  mellow,  and  keep  hot  until  ready  to  serve.  Serve  buttered, 
in  a  hot  covered  dish. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Candied  sweet  potatoes  are  very  popular  on  southern  ta- 
bles, and  are  extremely  palatable  when  well  prepared.  Cut  boiled 
sweet  potatoes  into  long  slices,  place  in  an  earthen  dish,  put 
lumps  of  butter  on  each  slice,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Some 
cooks  add  a  little  water  also.  Bake  until  sugar  and  butter  have 
candied  and  the  potatoes  are  brown. 


Cut  the  tops  off  of  young  table  carrots  but  do  not  cut  into 
the  carrots  in  doing  so.  Boil  until  tender,  adding  a  piece  of  on- 
ion and  several  sprigs  of  parsley  to  flavor.  Boil  in  a  large  quan- 
tity of  water,  the  same  as  when  boiling  beets.  If  the  carrots  are 
not  tough  and  woody,  and  have  cooked  long  enough,  the  skins 
can  easily  be  washed  off  in  running  water.  Cut  in  thin  slices, 


44  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

season  with  butter  or  cream  gravy.  Set  aside  to  "mellow"'  ovei 
hot  water,  for  ten  minutes.  Never  allow  them  to  boil  after  sea- 
soning or  cream  gravy  has  been  added. 

Carrots  cooked  this  way  are  delicious  and  when  cold  make 
a  nice  salad  served  in  a  nest  of  lettuce  leaves,  with  mayonnaise. 

CELERY  ROOT  MASHED 

Peel  celery  root,  cut  into  small  pieces,  boil  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  drain,  saving  water  for  soup,  mash  as  you  would  tur- 
nips, season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

CREAMED  CELERY  ROOT 

Peel  celery  root,  cut  into  cubes,  boil  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  drain  and  season.  Serve  with  White  Sauce. 

CORN  ON  COB  NO.  1 

Prepare  corn.  Drop  into  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  cook- 
ten  minutes.  If  only  a  few  ears  are  cooked  at  a  time,  the  tem- 
perature of  water  is  but  slightly  lowered,  and  corn  will  cook  in 
eight  minutes.  If  a  larger  number,  the  temperature  of  water  is 
lowered  in  proportion  and  time  of  cooking  must  be  increased. 
When  possible  cook  corn  in  plenty  of  water. 

CORN  ON  COB  NO.  2 

Prepare  corn  and  put  in  cold  water  to  which  a  tablespoon 
of  vinegar  has  been  added  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Serve  in  a 
napkin,  on  platter. 

BOILED  CORN  ON  COB  NO.  3 

Prepare  corn,  pour  over  boiling  water  to  which  one  cup  of 
milk  has  been  added,  and  place  in  fireless  cooker  for  half  an 
hour. 

CORN  ON  COB  NO.  4 

Cover  the  corn  with  cold  water  and  let  it  come  to  the  boil- 
ing point  slowly.  Remove  from  fire  and  allow  to  stand  in  hot 
water  ten  minutes,  before  serving.  Boiling  makes  green  corn 
tough  and  yellow.  A  little  milk  added  to  the  water  makes  the 
corn  white  and  sweet. 


VEGETABLES  45 

CREAMED  ONIONS 

8  medium-sized  onions  1  pint  milk 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter     Salt 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Cut  onions  into  quarters,  boil  an  hour  or  more  until  tender. 
Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  sift  in  flour,  add  milk,  stir  until  smooth, 
add  salt.  Pour  over  onions  and  serve. 


CREAMED  POTATOES 

1  tablespoon  butter  Pepper 

1  pint  milk  Salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  Cold  potatoes,  sliced 

Slice  cold  potatoes,  put  in  baking  dish.  Place  milk  in  an- 
other pan  on  stove,  thicken  with  flour  previously  mixed  with 
cold  water,  add  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  When  cooked  suf- 
ficiently, pour  over  potatoes,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  top  and 
bake  in  oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 


FLEMISH  CARROTS 

1  quart  carrots  (sliced)  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  quart  boiling  water  1   teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

1  teaspoon  salt  1^2  cups  soup  stock 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 
1  small  onion 

Scrape  carrots  and  cook  in  salted  boiling  water  until  tender, 
drain.  Slice  onion  and  brown  in  butter;  add  carrots  and  sea- 
soning, set  over  fire  ten  minutes ;  add  soup  stock,  cover  and  sim- 
mer twenty  minutes,  sprinkle  with  parsley  and  serve. 


HARVARD  BEETS 

12  small  beets  l/2  cup  vinegar 

^2  cup  sugar  ^2  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

Peel  beets,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  cook.  Mix  sugar,  corn 
starch  and  vinegar.  Pour  over  beets  and  let  stand  on  back  of 
stove  for  one-half  hour.  Just  before  serving  add  one-half  ta- 
blespoon butter. 


46  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

RICE 

Wash  rice  thoroughly,  rubbing  with  the  hands  to  free  it 
from  its  flour.  Cover  with  plenty  of  boiling  water,  salt  and  cook 
until  soft.  Drain  in  colander,  saving  water  for  soup,  bread,  or 
other  uses.  Place  rice  in  oven  until  time  to  serve.  Grains  should 
be  large  and  separated. 

RICE  POTATO  CAKE 

Rice  (boiled  Butter 

Mashed  potato  Cheese,  grated 

1  egg,  beaten  Salt 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  rice  and  mashed  potato,  add  egg 
and  seasoning,  spread  one  inch  deep  in  buttered  baking  pan, 
cover  with  grated  cheese  and  bake  one-half  hour.  Turn  out  on 
platter  and  garnish. 

RICE  POTATO  PIE 

Potatoes  Onion  salt 

Boiled  rice  Salt 

Poultry  seasoning  Butter 

2  tablespoons  milk 

Use  either  mashed  potato  or  crush  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
mix  with  equal  quantity  of  rice,  add  seasoning,  put  into  pie  pan, 
dot  with  butter,  pour  over  this  two  or  three  tablespoons  milk, 
press  edges  with  fork,  bake  one-half  hour.  Serve  in  pan  or  re- 
move to  platter. 

SCALLOPED  APPLES 

24  cup  flour,  scant  Salt  and  butter 

\l/2  cups  sugar  Apples,  sliced 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  salt.  Put  a  layer  of  sliced  apples  in  bak- 
ing dish,  sprinkle  with  two  tablespoons  of  the  mixture  and  bits 
of  butter.  Repeat  until  dish  is  heaping  Jfull,  as  the  apples  cook 
down  considerably.  Sweetening  is  varied  with  acidity  of  apples. 
Bake  one  hour  in  slow  oven. 


VEGETABLES  47 

SCALLOPED  CABBAGE 

Chopped  cabbage  Milk 

Cracker  crumbs  Salt,  pepper 

Butter 

Boil  cabbage  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain.  Put  lay- 
er about  of  cabbage  and  cracker  crumbs  into  a  baking  dish,  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter.  Pour  over  this  milk 
to  cover.  Bake  until  nicely  browned. 

SPANISH  STRING  BEANS 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  1  quart  String  beans 

1  small  onion,  chopped  fine    Salt,  pepper 
1  small  can  Del  Monte  Paprika 

Tomato  Sauce 

Cook  onion  in  olive  oil  until  tender,  add  uncooked  beans, 
tomato  sauce,  and  seasoning.  Cook  slowly  two  hours.  Do  not 
add  water  unless  in  danger  of  burning. 

STEWED  CORN 

With  sharp  knife  cut  through  center  of  each  row  of  grains, 
and  then  scrape  from  cob.  Put  corn  into  saucepan,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter,  add  enough  hot  milk  to  moisten  well, 
and  cook  ten  minutes. 

SWEET  POTATOES  AND  APPLES  (Southern  Style) 

Use  boiled  sweet  potatoes  and  fresh  apples,  both  sliced. 
Butter  baking  dish,  put  two  layers  of  apples  on  bottom,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  then  add  layer  of  sweet  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
alternate  until  dish  is  full.  Have  top  layer  apples.  Over  this 
pour  slice  of  butter  melted,  or  put  bits  of  butter  on  each  layer. 
Bake  one  hour  or  more. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

SALADS 


ALLIGATOR  PEAR  SALAD 

Select  nice  ripe  alligator  pears,  wash  and  dry.  Cut  into 
halves,  scoop  out  centers  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  return 
to  shells,  place  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  serve  with  mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing. 

APPLE  SALAD  NO.  1 

2  cups  tart  apples  2  tablespoon  vinegar 

YZ  cup  English  walnuts  2  tablespoons  good  salad 
1  cup  celery  dressing 

1  cup  cream,  whipped  Salt,  paprika 

Cut  apples,  nuts  and  celery  into  small  pieces,  mix,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  a  little  paprika,  then  add  dressing  made  by  mix- 
ing whipped  cream,  vinegar  and  salad  dressing.  White  grapes, 
oranges,  pineapple  or  marshmallows  are  good  in  this  salad. 
The  nuts  and  celery  may  be  omitted,  or  it  may  be  varied  in  sev- 
eral ways.  Serves  eight. 

APPLE  SALAD  NO.  2 

2  cups  sugar  Apples 

2  cups  water  Cinnamon  drops    (5c   worth) 

Boil  water,  sugar  and  drops  until  latter  are  dissolved,  add 
apples  pared  and  cored,  keeping  them  whole,  cook  until  apples 
can  be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Remove  apples  and  boil  syrup  un- 
til it  jellies,  then  fill  center  of  apple  with  the  jelly.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce leaf  with  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on  top.  This  same 
recipe  may  be  used  as  a  dessert  by  serving  with  whipped  cream. 


SALADS  49 

CARROT  SALAD 

2  cups  grated  raw  carrots       Salt 

1  cup  celery,  cut  fine 

Mix  with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  A  little 
grated  turnip  and  onion  may  be  added  if  desired,  also  sliced 
apples.  Instead  of  grating  carrots,  they  may  be  put  through 
nut  grinder,  using  finest  blade. 

CELERY  BOOT  SALAD 

5  celery  roots  Mayonnaise 

Cut  celery  roots  into  cubes,  boil  until  tender,  drain,  set 
aside  to  cool.  Mix  with  mayonnaise,  place  on  lettuce  leaves  on 
individual  plates,  add  more  dressing  and  serve. 

CORN  SALAD 

1  dozen  large  ears  of  corn,  4  heaping  tablespoons  mus- 

cut  from  cob  tard  mixed     with  a   little 

Equal  amount  of  cabbage,  vinegar 

chopped  fine  2  cups  sugar 

6  bell  peppers,  chopped  fine  l/2  gallon  vinegar 

Salt  to  taste 

Put  all  together  and  cook  thoroughly  one  hour  or  more. 
Put  in  glass  jars  and  seal. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

Simmer  clabbered  milk  until  whey  is  well  separated  from 
curd,  place  in  fine  strainer  or  cheesecloth  bag  and  drain.  Add 
salt  to  taste,  moisten  with  cream,  form  into  cones  or  balls  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  any  preferred  dressing. 

COMBINATION  SALAD  SUGGESTIONS 

The  following  combinations  may  be  served  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  any  preferred  dressing :  lima  beans  and  sliced  tomatoes : 
macaroni  and  asparagus ;  macaroni  and  pimentoes ;  string  beans 
and  tomatoes ;  peas  and  carrots ;  tomatoes  and  cucumbers ;  po- 
tatoes and  beets ;  cauliflower  and  hard-boiled  eggs ;  cauliflower 
and  grated  cheese ;  apples,  celery  and  nuts. 


50  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CUCUMBER  SALAD 

1  envelope  Knox  Sparkling     l/2  cup  lemon  juice 
Gelatine  2  cucumbers,  medium  size 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  small  can  pineapple 
1  teaspoon  sugar                      4  drops  green  coloring 

Soak  gelatine  in  juice  of  pineapple  and  dissolve  with  the 
boiling  water.  Add  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  When  slightly  cool 
add  cucumbers  previously  sliced  and  soaked  in  salt  water  for 
five  minutes,  then  coloring,  and  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Put  in  molds  and  when  formed  turn  out  on  lettuce  leaves.  Fin- 
ish with  mayonnaise,  chopped  walnuts  and  cherries. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

Pineapples   slices   sprinkled     Strawberries 

with  powdered  sugar,  set     Whipped  cream  or  mayon- 
aside  for  one  hour  naice 

Bananas  sliced  on  bias 

Place  pineapple  slices  in  center,  bananas  all  around,  add  a 
little  pineapple  juice,  whipped  cream  in  center  and  strawberries 
on  top. 

HEART  OF  LETTUCE  SALAD 

Over  lettuce  hearts  cut  in  halves,  pour  mayonnaise  mixed 
with  a  little  tomato  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 

LETTUCE  SALAD 

3  heads  lettuce  cut  fine  y2  teaspoon  mustard 
2/z  cup  salad  oil  3^  teaspoon  salt 

y2  cup  vinegar  1  teaspoon  sugar 

Place  salad  oil,  vinegar,  mustard,  salt  and  sugar  in  bowl 
and  beat  with  egg-beater.  Pour  over  lettuce  and  serve  at  once. 

ONION  SALAD 

Slice  onions  in  rings.  Place  in  saucepan  cover  with  boiling 
hot  water.  Let  stand  ten  minutes.  Drain  water.  Let  cold  water 
run  over  onions  till  crisp,  or  place  on  ice  to  cool.  Put  on  lettuce 
leaves  or  watercress.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dress- 
ing. 

No  onion  odor  from  onions,  if  so  prepared. 


SALADS  51 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD  NO.  1 

Cube  pineapple,  fresh  or  canned.  Skin  white  grapes,  seed 
them,  cube  a  package  of  marshmallows,  let  stand  in  juice  of 
pineapple  an  hour  or  more.  Put  all  together,  drain  juice  and 
add  a  little  lemon  juice  or  cubes  of  grape  fruit,  and  just  before 
serving  add  a  little  mayonnaise  or  cream  dressing.  This  is  im- 
proved if  pecan  nuts  are  added.  Serve  very  cold  on  lettuce 
leaves,  with  nasturtium  blossoms. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD  NO.  2 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  1  head  lettuce 

1  cup  Dutch  cheese  y2  cup  nuts,  chopped  fine 
8  Maraschino  cherries 

Place  a  slice  of  pineapple  on  bed  of  lettuce,  ball  the  cheese 
and  put  in  center,  and  on  this  place  a  cherry.  Put  mayonnaise 
dressing  on  pineapple  and  over  this  scatter  the  nuts. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD  NO.  3 

Lay  sliced  pineapple  on  lettuce.  Cut  pineapple  in  pieces, 
but  leave  in  same  shape  as  before.  Fill  center  with  mayonnaise, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Sliced  boiled  potatoes  Minced  parsley 

Chopped  onion  Mayonnaise 

Chopped  celery  Salt 

Mix,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  This  may  be  varied  by  add- 
ing chopped  pimentos,  peppers  or  cucumbers. 

STUFFED  EGG  SALAD 

6  eggs  Salt 

2  tablespoons  butter,  melted     Pepper 

]   tablespoon  cream  Mustard 

4  drops  onion  juice 

Boil  eggs  fifteen  minutes,  plunge  into  cold  water,  peel  and 
cut  in  halves.  Remove  yolks,  mash  fine,  add  butter,  cream,  onion 
juice,  salt,  pepper  and  mustard  to  taste;  mix  thoroughly,  refill 
the  halved  whites,  place  on  lettuce  leaf,  garnish  with  parsley  and 
serve. 


52  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

TOMATO  SALAD 

5  ripe  tomatoes  Vinegar 

1  cup  chopped  celery  finch  salt 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  Paprika 

Olive  oil 

Scald  tomatoes,  skin,  put  on  ice  to  cool.  When  firm,  scoop 
out  inside.  Mix  chopped  celery,  nuts  and  inside  of  tomatoes 
with  French  dressing  made  with  olive  oil,  vinegar,  salt  and  pap- 
rika. Refill  tomatoes,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Skins  may  be  re- 
moved from  tomatoes  by  putting  a  fork  in  stem  end  and  holding 
over  gas  flame.  When  skin  breaks  remove  with  knife. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

SALAD  DRESSINGS 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  rounded  teaspoon  butter      1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  egg  %  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

y2  cup  vinegar  Paprika 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  butter  in  double-boiler.  Beat  egg  with  Dover  beater, 
add  vinegar,  salt,  sugar,  mustard  and  paprika.  Stir  into  melted 
butter.  When  thickened  to  consistency  of  cream,  remove  at 
once  from  fire.  When  cold,  oil  may  be  beaten  in  if  desired. 

COOKED  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  sugar 

2  scant  teaspoons  mustard     */$  cup  cider  vinegar 
(dry)  1  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  flour  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  teaspoon  salt  Red  and  black  pepper 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  scald  with  enough  hot  water  to 
make  a  thick  paste.  Stir  in  beaten  eggs  and  butter,  and  pour 
vinegar  in  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time,  to  prevent  curdling.  Add 
milk,  boil  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  When 
ready  to  use  this  may  be  thinned  by  adding  cream.  A  splendid 
dressing  for  cabbage  or  other  salads  if  one  does  not  care  for 
mayonnaise. 

CEEAM  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  cup  cream  (sweet  or  2 ;  tablespoons  vinegar 
sour)  2  tablespoons  sugar 

l/2  cup  tomato  catsup  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Mix  oil,  salt,  sugar  and  vinegar,  beat  in  catsup  and  finally 
add  cream,  beating  it  in  gradually. 

This  dressing  is  very  good  for  vegetables  or  fish  salads. 


54  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CREAM  SLAW  DRESSING 

Y-Z  cup  vinegar  8  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  sour  cream  Salt 

1  well-beaten  egg 

Mix  vinegar,  egg  and  sugar,  add  cream  and  stir  constantly 
while  on  stove.  When  the  first  bubble  from  boiling  appears,  it 
is  sufficiently  cooked.  When  cold  pour  over  sliced  cabbage. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  *4  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  olive  oil  ^$  teaspoon  pepper 

Put  the  salt  and  pepper  into  salad  bowl.  Add  a  little  oil 
and  stir  well,  then  gradually  add  the  remainder  of  oil,  stirring 
all  the  while.  Last  of  all,  stir  in  the  vinegar,  which  should  be 
diluted  with  water  if  very  strong.  This  may  be  used  on  lettuce, 
cooked  asparagus,  cauliflower,  artichokes,  etc. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

One  cup  cream,  whipped,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  two  ta- 
blespoons good  salad  dressing.  Mix  well.  This  is  very  good 
for  any  fruit  salad. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

Y$  teaspoon  mustard,  scant    Yolk  of  1  egg 

Y^  teaspoon  salt  Salad  oil 

Juice  of  y*  lemon 

Beat  yolk  of  egg  and  drop  in  salad  oil,  one  or  two  drops  at 
a  time,  until  dressing  begins  to  thicken,  then  drop  in  lemon  juice 
or  vinegar,  a  little  at  a  time,  while  continuing  to  drop  in  the  oil. 
After  the  mayonnaise  begins  to  thicken  the  oil  may  be  added  in 
larger  quantities.  Should  substance  separate,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  begin  over.  The  separated  dressing  may  be  dropped  in- 
to the  new  after  the  latter  begins  to  thicken.  Beat  with  egg- 
beater  or  cooking-spoon.  When  sufficient  quantity  is  made,  put 
in  white  of  egg  and  beat  in  well.  Pepper  and  paprika  may  be 
used. 

SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  CABBAGE 

y$  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

24  cup  vinegar  1  teaspoon  mustard 

%  cup  water  3  eggs,  well  beaten 

Mix  and  cook  until  thick  and  smooth.    Use  cold. 


55 


SOUR  CREAM  DRESSING 

YI  pint  sour  cream  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice       %  teaspoon  pepper 
2  tablespoons  vinegar  1  teaspoon  or  more  mixed 

1  scant  tablespoon  sugar  mustard 

Beat  cream  with  an  egg  beater  until  smooth  and  light.  Mix 
other  ingredients  and  gradually  add  to  cream,  beating  all  the 
while.  This  dressing  may  be  modified  to  suit  different  vegt, 
tables.  Having  beaten  sour  cream  for  a  foundation  the  season- 
ing may  be  anything  desired,  as,  for  example,  the  mustard  and 
lemon  may  be  omittted,  and  any  kind  of  catsup  added. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

PUDDINGS 


APPLE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

2  cups  pearl  tapioca  1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  milk  Apples,  sliced 

2  eggs 

Wash  tapioca.  Place  in  pudding-dish  with  alternate  lay- 
ers of  apples,  apple  sauce  may  be  used  if  apples  do  not  cook 
quickly.  For  filling,  beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  milk.  Pour  this 
over  the  apples  and  tapioca.  Bake  until  apples  are  done — about 
half  hour.  Whites  of  eggs  may  be  beaten  separately  and  put  on 
top  of  pudding  after  it  is  baked. 

APRICOT  PUDDING  NO.  1 

Turn  one  jar  apricots  into  a  deep  pudding  dish.  Butter  well 
slices  of  bread  and  cover  apricots.  Bake  until  brown  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

APRICOT  PUDDING  NO.  2 

1  cup  dried  apricot  sauce        Whites  2  eggs 
1  cup  boiling  water  Sugar  to  taste 

Tablespoon  gelatine 
Dissolve  gelatine  in  boiling  water,  add  to  apricot  sauce  and 

when  it  begins  to  harden  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.    Serve 

with  cream  in  sherbet  cups  or  pastry  cases. 

BLACK  PUDDING 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

Y-2.  cup  hot  water  1  egg 

1^2  cups  flour 

Dissolve  soda  in  hot  water,  add  to  molasses  and  stir  in  the 
flour,  then  egg  well  beaten.  Beat  mixture  thoroughly  and  steam 
one  and  a  half  hours.  Serve  with  Black  Pudding  Sauce. 


PUDDINGS  37 

BLACKBERRY  DUMPLING  PUDDING 

2  cups  flour  3  level  teaspoons  baking 

1  egg  powder 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  mix  with  milk  and  beaten  egg  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Turn  out  on  board,  form  into  long  strips,  cut  into 
twelve  pieces,  and  drop  into  the  boiling  juice  of  two  quarts  of 
blackberries.  Serve  juice  that  remains  as  a  sauce. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

1  quart  milk  2  eggs 

2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter  A  dash  of  nutmeg 
l/2  cup  sugar  A  pinch  of  cloves 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Let  the  bread  crumbs  soak  two  hours  in  the  milk.  Mix  in 
other  ingredients,  beating  eggs  separately  and  adding  last.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 
Will  serve  six. 

CARROT  PUDDING 

1  cup  raw  carrot,  grated         1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  raw  potato,  grated         1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  ground  choc- 

1  cup  flour  olate 

1  cup  raisins,  seeded  and       1  teaspoon  soda 

chopped  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  grated  carrot  and  potato,  flour, 
into  which  the  soda  has  been  well  mixed,  then  spices  and  raisins. 
Fill  pound  baking  powder  cans  about  three-fourths  full,  set  in 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  steam  about  one  hour,  and  set  in  oven 
to  dry  a  little.  Serve  hot  with  any  sauce  desired.  A  few  ground 
or  chopped  walnuts  improve  the  pudding  very  much.  Will  serve 
twelve. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING  NO.  I 

1  pint  milk  2  eggs 

1  pint  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoons  chocolate 

Scald  milk,  add  bread  crumbs  and  chocolate.  Remove  from 
fire,  add  half  cup  sugar  and  the  beaten  yolks.  Bake  fifteen  min- 
utes. Use  whites  of  eggs  for  top,  beaten  stiff  and  sweetened. 
Note — More  milk  may  be  needed  if  crumbs  are  dry.  Serve  with 
cream. 


58  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING  NO.  2 

3  eggs  3  rounded  tablespoons  corn- 

3  cups  milk  starch 

YZ  cup  chocolate 

Mix  the  corn-starch  with  a  little  milk,  beat  the  yolk  of  eggs. 
Mix  the  chocolate  with  a  little  warm  water  and  stir  in  the  corn- 
starch,  then  add  sugar,  milk  and  vanilla.  Boil  in  double  boiler 
until  it  thickens ;  remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  well  beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  Pour  into  small  molds  or  into  a  large  dish. 

COCOANTIT  PUDDING 

1l/2  pints  milk  l/z  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour  %  cup  fresh  cocoanut, 

2  whites  of  eggs  grated 

Boil  milk  and  sugar  together  and  thicken  with  flour  and 
milk  stirred  to  a  smooth  paste.  Pour  this  over  whites  which 
have  been  beaten  to  a  froth.  Fold  in  and  add  cocoanut. 

Sauce 

1  cup  milk  y?  cup  sugar 

2  yolks  of  eggs  1  teaspoon  butter 

Custard  sauce  made  by  boiling  ingredients  until  creamy. 
Serve  all  cold. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

/vv&ooTJs     /^  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

T*  TWfer1  ^P  ™lk  Vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg,  then  milk  and 
flour,  beat  thoroughly.  Pour  into  baking-dish,  bake  in  moder- 
ate oven  for  about  forty- five  minutes.  Will  require  less  time  in 
gem  pans.  Serve  with  a  sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING 

1  Ib.  seeded  raisins  1  Ib.  mixed  peels 

1  Ib.  currants  %  ounce  mixed  spices 

1  Ib.  butter  or  crisco  */2  nutmeg 

y2  Ib.  sugar  1  small  grated  carrot 

l/2  Ib.  finely  grated  bread  8  eggs 

YI  Ib.  flour  Grated  rind  1  lemon 
Mix  all  dry  ingredients  together  and  moisten  with  the  well 

beaten  eggs.     Mix  well.     Steam  six  hours.     Serve  with  English 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce. 


PUDDINGS  59 

FAREWELL  PUDDING 

Toast  pieces  of  left-over  cake,  or  crumble  them  without 
toasting,  place  in  pudding  dish,  pour  over  them  any  fruit  juices 
or  jellies,  and  over  this  Custard  Sauce.  Use  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  with  sugar  for  frosting. 

FRUIT  PUDDING  NO.  1 

1  cup  flour  Milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder       Fruit  or  berries 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  dry  ingredients  and  mix  in  enough  milk  to  make  a  bat- 
ter that  can  be  dropped  from  a  teaspoon.  Stew  fruit  or  berries, 
with  plenty  of  juice  and,  when  boiling,  drop  the  dough  on  top, 
in  bits  from  a  teaspoon.  Cook  twenty  minutes. 

FRUIT  PUDDING  NO.  2 

>2  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

YZ  cup  milk  1^2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  4  to  6  apples 

YZ  cup  water  Vanilla 

Select  apples  that  are  juicy  and  will  cook  quickly.  Slice 
them  into  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  pour  over  this  the 
water  and  batter  made  by  mixing  the  sugar,  milk,  eggs,  flour, 
baking  powder  and  vanilla.  Bake  about  three-quarters  of  an 
hour. 

GINGER  PUDDING 

6  apples  YZ  cup  boiling  water 

Yz  cup  sugar  y2  teaspoon  powdered  ginger 

yi  teaspoon  powdered  cin-     1  teaspoon  soda 

namcn  Flour 

1  cup  molasses  Salt 

l/2  cup  butter 

Peel  and  slice  apples,  add  sugar,  salt,  cinnamon,  place  in 
buttered  pudding  dish.  Melt  butter,  add  molasses,  with  ginger 
and  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water,  then  enough  flour  to 
make  thin  batter.  Pour  this  mixture  over  apples.  Bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  half  hour.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


60  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

GRAHAM  PUDDING 

1  cup  graham  flour  ^  cup  molasses 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  soda,  level 

1  cup  raisins,  seeded  and       l/2  teaspoon  salt 

chopped  Cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon 

For  Pudding. — Mix  together,  steam  two  hours. 

Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  Grated  rind  and  juice  of 

y2  cup  butter  l/2  lemon 

1  egg  well  beaten  Water 

For  Sauce. — Mix  together,  add  six  tablespoons  boiling  wa- 
ter, one  by  one.  Keep  hot.  Do  not  boil. 

ICE-BOX  PUDDING 

4  squares   Baker's  sweet         4  tablespoons  sugar 
chocolate  4  tablespoons  water 

\y2  dozen  lady  fingers  o  eggs 

Boil  sugar  and  water  to  make  syrup.  Melt  chocolate  in  dou- 
ble boiler,  and  pour  hot  syrup  over  it.  Take  from  fire  and  beat 
for  ten  minutes.  Add  beaten  eggs.  Line  a  bread  tin  with  oiled 
paper.  Split  lady  fingers  and  place  them  on  sides  and  bottom 
of  tin.  Put  layers  of  chocolate  mixture  and  split  lady  fingers 
into  tin.  Let  stand  for  several  hours.  Serve  with  cream.  Will 
serve  eight. 

INSTANT  TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

*/2  cup  instantaneous  tapi-     l/2  cup  sugar 
oca  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  milk  1  teaspoon  extract  vanilla 

2  eggs 

Stir  tapioca  into  two  cups  of  milk,  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  stir 
into  milk,  add  vanilla.  Bring  balance  of  milk  to  a  boil,  and  stir 
in  the  mixture.  Cook  two  minutes,  then  add  the  beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  fruit  sauce. 


PUDDINGS  61 

LEMON  PUDDING 

3  large  or  4  small  eggs  3  rounded    tablespoons    corn- 

3  cups  water  starch 

\*/z  cups  sugar  Juice  of  2  or  3  lemons 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Separate  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Bring  water  to  a  boil 
in  double  boiler.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  cornstarch  and  sugar, 
beat  all  together  and  stir  into  heated  water,  add  juice  of  lemons. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thickened.  Remove  from  fire  and 
stir  in  the  beaten  whites. 

OLD  FASHIONED  RICE  PUDDING 

2  rounding  tablespoons  rice     1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  pint  milk  y$  cup  thick  cream 

3  rounding  tablespoons  Salt 
sugar 

Place  milk  and  uncooked  rice  in  casserole.  Set  dish  in  pan 
of  hot  water  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour,  then  add  salt, 
nutmeg  and  sugar.  Cover  and  bake  slowly  half  an  hour,  stirring 
two  or  three  times.  Add  vanilla  and  cream  and  return  to  oven 
for  about  ten  minutes.  The  pudding  should  not  be  soft  when 
done.  Each  kernel  should  be  separate,  but  thoroughly  cooked. 
In  baking,  as  the  light  brown  film  forms  on  top,  stir  it  into  the 
pudding,  as  it  adds  to  the  flavor. 

ORANGE  PUDDING 

1  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs  Juice  of  2  oranges 
YZ  cup  of  milk  A  little  grated  rind 
y$  cup  of  sugar  Nutmeg 

2  eggs  (beaten  separately) 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk,  add  juice  of  oranges, 
the  grated  rind,  sugar,  eggs  and  trifle  of  nutmeg.  Bake  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes  in  a  pan  of  water.  Serve  hot  or  cold 
with  whipped  cream. 


62  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

SNOW  PUDDING 

y2  package  gelatine  2  lemons 

\Y2  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

1  pint  milk 

Cover  gelatine  with  cold  water  and  when  soft  stir  into  it  a 
pint  of  boiling  water;  add  one  cup  sugar  and  juice  of  lemons. 
When  cold  and  just  beginning  to  thicken  add  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Beat  all  till  light  and  smooth.  Pour  mixture 
into  two  moulds,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with  custard  made 
with  yolks  of  eggs,  milk  and  half  cup  of  sugar.  Will  serve 
twelve. 

SOOTLACH  (A  Turkish  Dish) 

2>l/2  quarts  milk  (10  cups)       Salt,  sugar,  cinnamon 

9  small  tablespoons  rice 

Cook  over  slow  fire  until  creamy,  stirring  frequently,  add 
sugar  to  taste,  pour  into  flat  dish,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon.  Serve 
with  cream.  (Usually  for  one  cup  milk  take  small  tablespoon 
rice  and  then  add  one  more  cup  milk  a  little  later.)  Serves  eight. 

SPOONFUL  PUDDING 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  milk 

1  level  tablespoon  butter        1  level  teaspoon  baking  pow- 

2  tablespoons  sugar  der 

2  heaping  tablespoons  flour    Pinch  of  salt 
1  heaping  tablespoon  corn-    Raspberries 

starch 

Cream  butter  and  then  cream  sugar  and  butter.  Mix  salt, 
cornstarch  and  flour,  reserving  a  little  of  the  flour  to  mix  -/ith 
baking  powder  later.  Sift  these  dry  ingredients  and  mix  with 
butter  and  sugar.  Add  milk  and  yolk  of  egg.  Beat  thoroughly. 
Add  baking  powder  and  then  fold  in  white  of  egg.  Butter  ihree 
cups  and  put  two  tablespoons  of  red  raspberries  into  each.  Cover 
berries  with  two  tablespoons  of  batter.  Steam  forty  minutes  or 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  cream. 


PUDDINGS  63 

SPONGE  PUDDING 

1  quart  milk  ^4   cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour  6  eggs 

YT,  cup  butter 

Put  milk  into  double  boiler,  mix  flour  with  some  of  cold  milk 
to  a  smooth  paste,  when  milk  boils  stir  in.  Set  off  to  cool.  Add 
sugar  and  butter.  When  cool,  add  well  beaten  yolks  and  beat 
hard.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  stir  in  last.  Set  in  pan  of  hot  water 
in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  an  hour.  Serve  cold  with  cream 
or  whipped  cream.  Serves  six. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

PUDDING  SAUCES 


BLACK  PUDDING  SAUCE 

2  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

l/2  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  eggs.     Beat  well 
and  flavor  with  vanilla. 


CAKAMEL  PUDDING  SAUCE 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  cup  hot  water 

Melt  the  sugar  in  an  iron  saucepan  and  stir  until  it  is  a  light 
brown  color.  Add  boiling  water  and  cook  for  two  minutes.  Pour 
into  a  bowl  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE 

1  cup  milk  Y-2.  cup  sugar 

2  yolks  of  eggs  1  teaspoon  butter 

Boil  ingredients  in  double  boiler  until  creamy.  Flavor  to 
taste. 

EGG  SAUCE 

Yz  cup  sugar  Salt 

1  egg  Vanilla 

Beat  egg,  add  sugar  by  degrees,  then  pinch  of  salt,  and  va- 
nilla. 

PLUM  PUDDING  SAUCE 

4  tablespoons  flour  4  tablespoons  butter 

1  quart  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

54  teaspoon  nutmeg  1  teaspoon  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  *4  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  stir  in  flour,  add  warm  water,  cook 
until  smooth,  then  add  other  ingredients. 


PUDDING   SAUCES  65 

HARD  SAUCE 

2  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

y2  cup  butter  Vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs. .  Flavor. 

LEMON  SAUCE 

1  pint  boiling  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  sugar  1  lemon 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

Blend  sugar  and  cornstarch,  pour  over  boiling  water  and 
cook  twenty  minutes.  Add  butter  and  lemon  juice  and  remove 
from  stove. 

ORANGE  SAUCE 

YI  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  orange 

2  cups  water  Pinch  salt 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  stir  in  flour,  add  warm  water,  juice 
and  rind  of  orange,  and  salt. 

SILVER  SAUCE 

Y$  cup  butter  y2  teaspoon  boiling  water 

y2  cup  sugar  y2  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  eggs  (whites) 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  in  stiffly  whipped    whites. 

Add  water  and  flavoring.    Let  stand  before  serving. 

GOLDEN  SAUCE 

Use  recipe  for  Silver  Sauce,  adding  yolks  of  eggs. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE 

Use  recipe  for  Silver  Sauce,  omitting  eggs  and  adding  one- 
half  cup  of  crushed  strawberries. 

VANILLA  SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
y2  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  then  stir  in  flour,  add  the  water, 
warm  preferred,  vanilla  and  salt. 


CHAPTER  X. 

PASTRY 


PASTRY  DOUGH 

1  cup  flour  Y-Z  teaspoon  salt 
/licup  crisco 

Rub  flour  and  crisco  together,  stir  in  enough  cold  \vacer  to 
make  medium  stiff  dough.  Roll  into  piece  large  enough  for 
crust,  spread  with  crisco,  fold  once  and  roll  again.  Small  left- 
over pieces  may  be  used  for  pastry  cases. 

PASTRY  CASES 

Use  pastry  recipe.  Turn  individual  tin  patty-tins  upside 
down  on  baking  sheet,  cover  outside  of  tin  with  pastry  rolled 
thin,  bake.  These  cases  may  be  kept  for  several  days,  and  may 
be  used  in  serving  stewed  protose,  peas,  corn,  creamed  oysters, 
fruit,  etc.  Makes  an  attractive  dish. 

PIE  CRUST  NO.  1 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  crisco  Water 

1  level  teaspoon  baking 

powder 

Add  salt  and  baking  powder  to  flour  and  sift.  Chop  flour 
and  crisco  together,  then  gradually  add  water  enough  to  make 
stiff  dough.  Place  on  floured  board,  sprinkle  over  with  flour, 
roll  out  and  fold  into  three  layers,  roll  again  and  repeat  this 
process  four  times.  An  excellent  crust. 

PIE  CRUST  NO.  2 

1  cup  flour  4  tablespoons  crisco 

1  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  water 

Sift  flour  and  salt,  cut  in  crisco,  using  two  knives,  add  wa- 
ter. Pie  crust  dough  must  be  stiff.  Roll  on  floured  board  and 
spread  with  crisco.  To  make  a  flaky  pie  crust,  repeat  this  five 
or  six  times. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

PIES 


APPLE  PIE 

Tart  apples  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup   sugar  or 

Salt  l/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Line  pan  with  Fie  Crust  No.  1  or  No.  2.  Put  in  layer  of 
thinly  sliced  apples,  sprinkle  with  sugar  into  which  spice  has 
been  mixed,  and  also  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  if  apples  are  juicy, 
dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Repeat  these  layers  until  pan  is  full, 
cover  with  top  crust,  prick  with  fork,  brush  over  with  water  cr 
milk  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1  pint  milk  3  scant  tablespoons-  chocolate 

2  egg  yolks  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1  cup  sugar  Butter  size  of  walnut 

Bake  crust  first.  Put  milk  into  double  boiler,  let  come  to 
a  boil.  Mix  well  the  other  ingredients  and  add  to  the  boiling 
milk.  Put  into  baked  crust.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  one  ta- 
blespoon sugar,  spread  on  top  and  brown. 

CRUSTLESS  CUSTARD  PIE 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  quart  milk 
4  tablespoons  sugar                 Vanilla 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  Salt 

Mix  eggs,  sugar,  flour  and  salt  together.  Add  milk  slowly, 
beating  constantly,  flavor,  pour  into  large  buttered  pie  pan. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  custard  sets. 


68  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CUSTARD  PEE 

3  whole  eggs  or  yolks  of  b     %  teaspoon  salt 

3  heaping  tablespoons  1^  cup  rich  milk  (cold) 

granulated  sugar  Nutmeg  or  extract 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  in  a  bowl  until  well  mixed,  add  butter, 
salt  and  beat  again,  then  milk  and  pour  into  deep  pie  plate,  lined 
with  pastry.  Dust  the  top  with  nutmeg  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  custard  sets. 

This  is  a  good  way  to  use  up  yolks  after  making  white  cake, 
and  is  even  better  than  the  whole  egg.  A  little  cream  is  also  bet- 
ter than  butter. 

EGGLESS  PUMPKIN  PIE 

1  cup  cooked  pumpkin  1  cup  brown  sugar 

2  cups  cream  or  milk  ('if       1  teaspoon  ginger 
milk  add  butter)  Pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  flour  Cinnamon,  nutmeg 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  to  pumpkin  and  milk.  Sprinkle 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg  over  pie  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Some  like  two  teaspoons  of  molasses  and  white  sugar  and  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder  added  to  this. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  1 

.4  eggs  Juice  of  \l/2  lemons 

1  cup  sugar  Grated  rind  of  lemons 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  well,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  rind, 
put  into  double  boiler  and  cook  until  a  thick  cream,  beat  into  this 
the  very  stiff  whites,  pour  into  already  baked  pie-crust  and  place 
in  hot  oven  to  brown. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  2 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cup  cold  water  Butter  size  of  small  egg 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  Juice  of  lemon 

1  slightly  rounded  table- 
spoon flour 

Blend  sugar,  yolks  of  eggs,  flour  and  cornstarch.  add  water, 
butter  and  greated  rind  of  lemon.  Cook  in  saucepan  until  mix- 
ture thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Turn  into  a  baked  pie-crust, 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  eggs  and  one  table- 
spoon sugar,  cover  pie  and  brown. 


PIES  69 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  3 

1  slice  of  bread  l^in.  thick     3  yolks  of  eggs 

V/2  cups  boiling  water  2  or  3  whites 

1;H>  cups  sugar  Butter  size  of  egg 

\Yz  lemons 

Pour  boiling  water  over  bread,  add  sugar,  beaten  yolks, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon,  melted  butter.  Bake  in  uncooked 
crust,  cover  with  meringue  made  from  beaten  whites  to  which 
three  level  tablespoons  of  sugar  have  been  added.  Brown  in 
oven. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  4 

3  eggs  5  tablespoons  water 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Salt 
1  lemon 

To  well  beaten  yolks  add  water,  sugar,  salt,  juice  and  rind 
of  one  lemon.  Put  into  double  boiler  and  cook  until  mixture 
thickens.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  four  tablespoons 
sugar,  one  at  a  time  and  fold  into  custard.  Pour  into  baked 
crust.  Bake  until  custard  puffs  up. 

MINCE  MEAT,  VEGETARIAN 

3  pints  sour  apples  3  cups  raisins 

3  Pints  green  tomatoes  y2  teaspoon  each  of  cloves, 
(peeled  and  water  mace  and  allspice 
pressed  out)  2  teaspoons  salt 

4  cups  brown  sugar  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
1  pint  boiled  cider  Juice  of  1  lemon 

or 

1  cup  vinegar 

Grind  or  chop  apples  and  tomatoes.  Mix  all  together  and 
cook  slowly  three  hours.  Seal  in  glass  jars  for  winter  use.  In 
making  the  pie,  before  putting  on  top  crust,  dot  with  pieces  of 
butter.  This  takes  the  place  of  the  suet  in  the  old-fashioned 
mince  meat. 


70  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

PINEAPPLE  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1  can  pineapple 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

l/z  cup  butter  1  cup  sweet  cream 

Make  pie  crust.  Beat  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  to  a 
cream,  add  pineapple  (minced).  Dissolve  cornstarch  in  cream 
and  add  to  mixture,  mix  thoroughly.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  very 
stiff,  fold  in  lightly.  Fill  crust,  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Serve 
cold.  If  desired,  both  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  may  be  beaten 
in  with  pineapple  and  pie  baked  with  two  crusts. 

RHUBARB  PIE 

\l/2  cups  rhubarb  1  egg 

y$  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

Prepare  the  rhubarb  and  scald  it  as  for  stewing;  mix  with 
the  other  ingredients  and  bake  between  two  crusts. 

SQUASH  OR  PUMPKIN  PIE 

3  cups  squash  2  cups  brown  sugar 

YI  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 

2  eggs  ginger,  cloves 
2  cups  milk 

Make  pie  crust.  Mix  ingredients  together,  place  in  crust 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  half  an  hour. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

PRUNES 


JUST  A  WORD  ABOUT  PRUNES 

The  right  prunes  cooked  right  are  delicious.  They  are 
more  than  fruit ;  they  make  the  best  breakfast  food  in  the  world. 
Santa  Clara  Valley  residents,  of  all  communities,  have  absolute- 
ly the  best  deciduous  green  fruits,  berries  and  melons  at  their 
command;  yet  a  large  proportion  eat  prunes  with  cream  every 
morning  in  the  year.  In  pies,  cakes,  souffles,  and  fifty  other 
ways,  primes  make  a  tooth-some  article  of  diet.  A  cook  book 
from  Santa  Clara  Valley  would  be  incomplete  without  a  prune 
department. 

BABY'S  EVENING  MEAL 

Press  through  a  sieve  six  or  eight  prunes  with  juice.  Add 
to  pulp  a  couple  of  tablespoons  of  cream.  Serve  with  a  slice  of 
toasted  whole  wheat  bread  or  unsweetened  graham  or  other 
wafer  and  a  glass  of  milk. 

BAKED  PRUNE  DUMPLINGS 

2  cups  sifted  flour  Walnuts 

2  tablespoons  crisco  Water  to  mix 

%  teaspoon  salt  Stewed  prunes 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Make  paste,  roll  out,  and  cut  in  five-inch  squares, 
one-fourth  inch  thick.  Pit  prunes,  stuff  with  half 
walnuts.  Place  six  in  each  square  of  paste.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar,  dot  with  butter.  Pinch  squares  together,  brush  with 
white  of  egg  and  cover  with  granulated  sugar.  Bake  in  mod- 
erate oven.  Serve  with  cream  or  hot  sauce. 


72  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

BAKED  PRUNES 

Cover  a  quart  of  prunes  with  boiling  water  and  bring  to  a 
boil  quickly  in  a  covered  kettle.  Boil  steadily  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Then  remove  cover  and  simmer  till  about  one-half  cup 
of  liquid  is  left.  Add  lemon  juice  to  flavor  and  simmer  a  little 
longer.  Turn  the  contents  of  the  kettle  on  a  large  granite  pie 
plate ;  it  should  hold  the  prunes  in  one  compact  layer ;  cover  with 
another  plate  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  nearly  all  the 
juice  has  disappeared.  Turn  each  prune  with  the  tine  of  a  fork 
and  return  uncovered  to  a  slow  oven,  if  too  hot  the  door  may 
be  left  open.  Allow  to  remain  a  few  minutes  until  they  are 
glossy  but  not  dry.  The  prunes  should  be  rather  firm  when  done 
but  not  hard,  care  being  taken  not  to  blister  them.  Put  away  in 
a  covered  dish  and  serve  with  cream  or  crisp  walnuts. 

EDEN  VALE  PRUNE  WHIP 

1  pint  stewed  prunes  6  egg  whites 

Ys  pint  thick  cream  Raspberry  or  loganberry 

jelly 

Drain  prunes  thoroughly,  pit  them  and  rub  through  col- 
ander; avoid  rubbing  the  skins  through  as  much  as  possible. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  then  by  degrees  beat 
this  into  sifted  prunes.  If  not  sweet  enough  to  suit  taste,  add 
a  tablespoon  of  sugar.  The  delicacy  of  this  dish  depends  large- 
ly upon  the  thoroughness  with  which  the  ingredients  are  beat- 
en together.  When  well  beaten,  pour  into  glass  dish.  Whip 
cream  and  spread  evenly  over  top  of  pudding.  Then  fleck  the 
whipped  cream  with  bits  of  jelly.  Serve  with  cream  or  if  pre- 
ferred with  a  custard  made  from  the  yolks  of  six  eggs. 

PRUNE  BREAD 

1^2  cups  white  flour  1^4  cups  thick  sour  milk 

l^a  cups  fine  graham  flour      ^  cup  molasses 

2  rounding  tablespoons  white  1  teaspoon  soda,  a  trifle  more 
or  brown  sugar  than  level 

1  level  tablespoon  salt  1  heaping  cup  stewed  prunes 

Remove  pits  from  prunes  and  cut  them  up  in  the  cup  with 
a  knife.  Mix  them  thoroughly  into  the  milk,  soda  and  mo- 
lasses. Add  dry  ingredients,  which  have  been  mixed  together; 
beat  well.  Bake  in  two  or  three  round  loaves  in  moderate  oven 
about  forty  minutes,  watching  carefully  towards  the  last  as  it 
burns  easily.  The  bread  is  improved  by  baking  in  small  heavy 
earthenware  pudding  dishes  or  in  small  steel  skillets. 


PRUNES  73 

PRUNE  LAYER  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
YZ  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  powdered  mace 

3  eggs  1  cup  chopped  walnuts 
%  cup  sweet  milk  1  cup  steamed  prunes 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  milk,  flour  previously 
sifted  with  baking  powder  and  mace.  Line  cake  pan  with  but- 
tered paper,  fill  in  a  layer  of  cake  batter,  spread  a  layer  of 
chopped  prunes  over  this,  then  a  layer  of  nuts.  Repeat  until 
pan  is  two-thirds  full.  Bake  in  a  steady,  but  not  quick,  oven. 


PRUNE  PUDDING  NO.  1 

3  tablespoons  sugar  1.  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  butter  \Y*  cups  chopped  prunes 

1  egg  Salt 

1  large  cup  buttermilk  Nutmeg 

l^  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  stir  in  egg,  add  buttermilk,  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  chopped  prunes,  flour,  salt, 
nutmeg.  Fill  baking  powder  cans  two-thirds  full,  steam  three 
hours.  Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 


PRUNE  PUDDING  NO.  2 

Crumbled  bread  Butter 

Chopped  stewed  prunes  1  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Put  a  layer  of  broken  bread  into  a  baking-dish,  then  a  lay- 
er of  chopped  prunes  and  bits  of  butter,  repeat  till  you  have 
quantity  desired.  Pour  prune  juice  over  pudding  and  add 
chopped  walnuts  as  final  layer.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  mod- 
erate oven.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


PRUNE  PUDDING  NO.  3 

1  quart  stewed  prunes  4:  tablespoons  sugar 

4:  eggs 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  add  the  sugar  gradually, 
then  the  prunes,  pitted  and  chopped.  Turn  into  buttered  dish 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  with  cream. 


74  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

PRUNE  SOUFFLE 

1  cup  stewed  prunes  y2  cup  sugar 

3  eggs  (whites) 

Remove  pits  from  prunes  and  chop  fine.  Add  whites  of 
eggs  and  sugar  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  well,  turn  into  a 
buttered  dish  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

STEWED  PRUNES  NO.  1 

Cleanse  thoroughly,  soak  in  water  ten  or  twelve  hours, 
adding  a  little  granulated  sugar  when  putting  to  soak ;  for  al- 
though the  fruit  is  sweet  enough,  experience  has  shown  that  the 
added  sugar  changes  by  chemical  process  into  fruit  sugar  and 
brings  out  better  the  flavor  of  the  fruit.  After  soaking,  the 
fruit  will  assume  its  full  size,  and  is  ready  to  be  "simmered" 
on  back  of  stove.  Do  not  "boil"  prunes,  that  is  what  "spoils" 
prunes.  Simmer  only.  Keep  lid  on.  Shake  gently,  do  not  stir. 
When  tender  are  ready  for  table.  Serve  cold.  Added  just  be- 
fore simmering,  a  little  sliced  lemon  or  orange  gives  a  rich  col- 
or and  flavor  to  syrup. 

STEWED  PRUNES  NO.  2 

Wash  prunes,  cover  with  hot  water,  let  stand  until  water 
is  cool,  drain,  cover  two  inches  above  top  of  prunes  with  hot 
water,  bring  quickly  to  a  boil.  Set  on  back  of  stove  and  sim- 
mer till  water  is  boiled  down  about  one-half.  When  soft,  add 
a  little  sugar.  Some  prunes  require  no  sugar  cooked  in  this 
way. 

STEAMED  PRUNES 

Steam  until  the  fruit  is  swollen  to  its  original  size  and  is 
tender.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  squeeze  lemon  juice 
over  them. 

STUFFED  PRUNE  PEE 

Two  cups  flour,  three  tablespoons  crisco,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  enough  ice  or  cold  water  to  mix  so  there  are  dry  flour  flakes 
left  in  bowl.  Cover  pie  tin  with  crust.  Fill  with  cooked  prunes, 
pitted  and  stuffed  with  nut  meats ;  cover  with  prune  juice ;  dash 
of  cinnamon  if  desired.  Bake  and  then  cover  with  meringue 
made  of  white  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  add  three  tablespoons 
sugar;  brown  in  oven.  Delicious  with  whipped  cream  instead 
of  meringue. 


PRUNES  75 

STUFFED  PRUNES 

Wash  choice  prunes  several  times  in  boiling  water.  Steam 
half  an  hour  or  until  pliable.  Remove  pits  with  the  point  of  a 
sharp  paring  knife.  Stuff  with  walnut  kernels  and  roll  in  pow- 
dered sugar. 

Stuffed  prunes  are  more  delicious  when  eaten  the  same  day 
as  the  walnuts  soon  lose  their  crispness,  owing  to  the  moisture 
of  the  prunes. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS 


APPLE  CRISP 

8  apples  5  level  tablespoons  butter 

l/2  cup  water  1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  ^cup  flour 

Slice  apples  and  place  in  baking  dish.  Mix  sugar,  flour, 
cinnamon,  butter  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  apples.  Pour  water 
over  all  and  bake. 

APPLE  AND  QUINCE  SAUCE 

Peel  and  slice  two  quince  and  cook  while  paring  apples. 
Pare  and  slice  about  twelve  apples  that  will  cook  quickly  and 
put  in  with  quince.  Heat  thoroughly  on  fire,  put  into  fireless 
cooker  for  three  hours.  Remove  from  cooker,  sweeten,  heat 
again,  replace  in  cooker,  cook  for  two  hours.  Before  serving 
put  through  colander. 

BAKED  APPLES  NO.  1 

12  green  apples  J4  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar  Pinch  salt 

y2  cup  flour  Water 

Wash  apples,  core  with  corer.  Cream  flour,  sugar  and  but- 
ter, fill  centers.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  done,  usually 
about  one-half  hour. 

BAKED  APPLES  NO.  2 

12  apples  Cinnamon 

y±  cup  sugar  Water 

Peel  and  core  apples,  place  in  pan  with  one  teaspoon  of 
sugar  in  center  of  each,  sprinkle  lightly  with  cinnamon.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven.  When  done,  place  in  bottom  of  pan  one- 
half  cup  sugar  and  al^out  half  cup  water.  Replace  in  slow  oven, 
simmer  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Early  apples  cannot  be  baked  in 
this  way  as  they  go  to  pieces.  Winter  apples  are  best. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS  77 


BAKED  PEARS 

12  pears  54  cup  water 

%  cup  sugar  Stick  of  cinnamon 

Wash  ripe  pears,  core  with  corer,  fill  center  with  sugar, 
pack  in  baking  pan  on  their  sides,  add  water,  place  in  hot  oven. 
\Vhen  almost  done,  add  to  juice  remaining  half  cup  of  sugar 
and  cinnamon  stick,  and  if  necessary,  more  water.  Allow  pears 
to  simmer  in  this  syrup  in  slow  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes 
to  mellow  them.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 

BAKED  CUP  CUSTARD 

5  scant  cups  milk  *4  teaspoon  nutmeg 
3  eggs                                         Pinch  of  salt 

6  dessert  spoons  sugar 

Beat  eggs,  add  milk,  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  sherbet 
cups  placed  in  pan  of  hot  water. 

BAKED  BANANAS 

Beat  two  eggs  and  one  cup  of  water  together.  Peel  fruit, 
dip  in  egg,  then  in  granola,  repeat.  Place  in  buttered  pan.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Serve  with  Orange  Sauce. 

BROWN  BETTY 

1  egg  Sliced  apples 
y2   cup  sugar  Butter 
Bread  crumbs                            Vanilla 
Cinnamon 

Place  layers  of  sliced  apple  and  bread  crumbs  in  a  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  each  layer  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  bits  of  butter. 
Bake  in  medium  oven  one  hour.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce : 
Beat  an  egg,  adding  sugar  by  degress  and  beat  well.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Hard  sauce  may  be  used. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD 

2  cups  sugar  5  eggs 
2^  cups  milk 

Melt  sugar  over  a  slow  fire  in  a  skillet  until  brown.  It  re- 
quires constant  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  Remove  from  fire 
and  stir  in  milk.  Put  back  on  fire  and  let  sugar  dissolve  thor- 
oughly. Beat  eggs  very  light,  pour  in  milk  and  dissolved  sugai, 
stir  well  and  pour  into  custard-cups.  Place  in  pan  of  hot  water 
and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  done.  Be  careful  not  to  cook  too 
long. 


78  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

\l/4  cup  milk  \l/4   tablespoons  granulated 

5  tablespoons  sugar  gelatine 

2  eggs  '4  cup  water 

J4  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  heavy  cream 

\l/2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Scald  the  milk.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly,  add  two  tea- 
spoons sugar,  salt,  and  pour  over  milk  gradually,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook,  stirring  constantly 
until  mixture  thickens  slightly  and  a  coating  is  formed  on  the 
spoon;  then  add  the  gelatine  soaked  in  the  cold  water  fifteen 
minutes.  As  soon  as  gelatine  has  dissolved,  strain  and  set  pan 
containing  mixture  in  a  pan  of  ice-cold  water,  stirring  occasion- 
ally that  mixture  may  not  lump.  As  mixture  thickens  add  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  the  cream  beaten  stiff,  mixed 
with  three  tablespoons  sugar  and  the  vanilla.  Pour  into 
molds  and  serve  with  sponge  cake. 


l/^  cups  strong  coffee  1  tablespoon   gelatine    (gran- 

YZ  cup  milk  ulated),   soaked   in   a   little 

l/2  cup  sugar  cold  water 

3  eggs 

Add  to  coffee,  milk,  sugar,  egg  yolks  and  gelatine.  Cook 
ingredients  in  double  boiler  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
Meantime,  beat  the  egg  whites  very  stiff  and  when  the  pudding 
is  stiff  stir  it  into  them.  Add  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  set  away 
in  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water.  Chill  and  serve  with  plain  or 
whipped  cream. 

Cereal  coffee  may  be  substituted  but  must  be  strong. 

DELIGHT  DESSERT 

Make  a  cream  sponge  cake,  bake  in  two  layers,  cover  each 
layer  with  stiffly  whipped  cream,  sprinkle  with  chopped  wal- 
nuts and  serve  with  chocolate  syrup,  made  as  follows:  Mix  to- 
gether one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  four  tablespoons 
chocolate,  boil  five  minutes. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS  79 

FRUIT  SALAD  AS  DESSERT 

1  envelope  Knox's  gelatine    2  bananas 

3  cups  boiling  water  Juice  of  1  lemon 

2  oranges  Cream 
YZ  cup  walnuts 

Soak  gelatine  half  hour  in  half  cup  cold  water.  Pour  three 
cups  boiling  water  over  this  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Let  liquid 
cool.  Add  oranges,  bananas,  nuts  cut  into  small  pieces,  then 
lemon  juice.  Serve  with  cream. 

LEMON  CREAM 

4  eggs  \]/2  lemons 

5  rounded  tablespoons  sugar  y%  teaspoon  salt 

Separate  yolks  and  whites,  beat  yolks  until  lemon  color,  add 
sugar,  grated  peel  and  juice  of  lemons,  stir  well.  Boil  in  double 
boiler  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  the  fire  and  cool,  then  pour 
it  into  the  well  beaten  whites  to  which  salt  has  been  added  be- 
fore beating,  stirring  well.  Put  in  glass  sherbet  cups  and  serve 
cold. 

LEFT-OVER  CAKE  DESSERT. 

1  quart  milk  Butter  size  of  egg 

3  eggs  Sugar,  salt,  vanilla 
1  heaping  teaspoon  corn- 
starch 

Toast  pieces  of  left-over  cake,  put  in  dish,  pour  over  it 
custard. 

Custard 

Heat  milk  in  double  boiler.  Wet  cornstarch  with  a  little 
cold  milk,  put  in  eggs  and  sugar,  beat  together  and  stir  into  the 
hot  milk. 

LEMON  BANANAS 

1  dozen  bananas  3  lemons 

1  cup  sugar 

Slice  bananas,  put  sugar  and  juice  of  lemons  over  them  and 
let  stand  two  hours  before  serving,  turning  over  two  or  three 
times  while  standing.  Orange  juice  may  be  added. 


80  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MARMALADE  MERINGUE 

Make  rich  pastry,  roll  not  too  thin,  cut  into  squares  or  ob- 
longs and  bake.  Spread  with  orange  marmalade  (or  other  fruit). 
Cover  with  meringue  made  by  adding  a  quarter  cup  sugar  to 
stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  salt.  Put  in  oven  and  brown 
slightly. 

MINUTE  TAPIOCA 

\y2  pints  milk  3  eggs 

1  cup  minute  tapioca  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  sugar  Salt,  vanilla,  lemon 

Put  the  tapioca  and  milk  into  a  double  boiler  and  cook  fif- 
teen minutes,  add  sugar,  butter,  flavoring  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
cook  five  minutes  longer,  then  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Re- 
move from  stove  and  stir  in  the  beaten  whites.  Pour  into  dish 
and  serve  with  cream. 

ORANGE  CUSTARD 

1  level  tablespoon  cornstarch  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
4  oranges  1  heaping  cup  sugar 

1  quart  of  milk  4  eggs 

Mix  cornstarch  with  a  little  milk,  beat  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  two  whole  eggs  and  add  to  cornstarch,  then  milk,  sugar  and 
vanilla.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  Cut  four  or- 
anges into  small  pieces  in  dish  in  which  custard  is  to  be  served 
and  sprinkle  about  half  a  cup  of  sugar  over  them  and  let  stand. 
Just  before  serving,  pour  the  custard  over  the  oranges.  Beat 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff,  add  a  little  sugar  and  drop  in  spoon- 
fuls over  top  of  pudding.  Serves  ten. 

PEACH  CUPS 

1  pint  milk  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
3  cups  flour  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
Y-2.  teaspoon  salt  powder 

2  eggs  Fruit 

Beat  eggs,  add  milk,  salt,  flour  and  beat  thoroughly,  then 
mix  in  butter  and  baking  powder.  Put  a  little  into  each  baking 
cup,  then  a  layer  of  fruit,  cover  with  more  batter  and  set  cups  in 
a  pan  half  filled  with  boiling  water.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in 
quick  oven.  Serve  with  cream  or  soft  sauce.  Glass  sherbet  cups 
may  be  used. 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERTS  81 


PEACH  ICE  CREAM 

1  quart  milk  1  cup  sugar 
4  eggs 

Scald  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  sugar.  Mix  together 
and  pour  into  scalded  milk.  Cook  very  slowly,  stirring  until  it 
thickens  a  little;  set  to  cool.  Cut  up  six  peaches  fine  and  cover 
with  a  cup  of  sugar.  Add  one  pint  whipping  cream  to  peaches 
and  then  add  this  to  cooked  mixture.  Freeze. 

PEACH  MELBA 

2  eggs  2^   tablespoons  boiling 
y2cup  sugar  water 

Y-Z  cup  flour  Vanilla 

Y$   teaspoon  baking  powder  Peaches,  canned  or  fresh 
Beat  yolks  and  sugar,  add  water,  baking  powder,  flour  and 
whites  of  eggs.     Pour  into  greased  pan  and  cover  dough  with 
fruit.     Bake  from  a  half  to  three-quarters  of  an    hour.     Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

PINEAPPLE  FLIP 

1  can  minced  pineapple  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

2  cups  water  Small   lump  butter 
V/2  cups  sugar                           Yolks  2  eggs 

Mix  together  above  ingredients  and  cook  in  double-boiler. 
As  soon  as  it  thickens,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  spread  the  beat- 
en whites  of  eggs  over  top,  brown  slightly.  Serve  very  cold. 

PINEAPPLE  FLUFF 

1  tablespoon  gelatine  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  cold  water  1  cup  pineapple 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  pint  cream 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  add 
sugar  and  pineapple.  Turn  mixture  into  cream  which  has  been 
well  whipped.  Mould  and  serve  with  soft  custard. 

PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA 

2  tablespoons  minute  tapioca  1  cup  grated  pineapple 
1  cup  water  1  tablespoon  sugar 

Cook  in  double-boiler  tapioca,  water,  pineapple,  sugar  and 
salt  twenty  minutes  or  until  top  is  clear.  Serve  hot  or  cold,  with 
or  without  cream.  Mould  if  desired. 


82  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  butter  and  crisco 

3  level  teaspoons  baking  mixed 
powder                                    1  egg 

j-4  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  sugar 

Milk 

Work  shortening  into  the  flour,  add  baking  powder,  salt, 
break  egg  into  flour,  add  enough  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter, 
stir  well.  Bake  in  shallow  pan  about  twenty  minutes.  When 
done,  remove  from  pan,  split  and  spread  with  butter.  Cover 
with  the  berries,  which  have  been  crushed  and  sweetened.  Serve 
at  once. 

STRAWBERRY  DESSERT 

1  quart  strawberries  1  cup  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  lemon 

l/2.  box  gelatine  Whites  4  eggs 

Mash  the  berries  and  stir  in  one-half  cup  sugar,  cover  the 
gelatine  with  a  gill  of  water  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Make  a 
syrup  of  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  cup  water,  simmer  slowly 
twenty  minutes.  Strain  the  berries,  pour  boiling  syrup  over  gel- 
atine, return  to  the  fire  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Remove,  add 
berry  juice  and  lemon  juice.  Set  aside  until  mixture  begins  to 
cool,  beat  ten  minutes,  add  gradually  as  it  thickens  the  well  beat- 
en whites  and  beat  until  quite  stiff. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 


COOKIES,  DOUGHNUTS 
and  WAFERS 


DROP  COOKIES 

4  tablespoons  butter  ^2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  y^   cup  chopped  raisins  or 
4  tablespoons  sweet  milk  walnuts 

2  eggs,  beaten  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
2  cups  flour,  well  rounded  Little  nutmeg 

2   teaspoons   baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  then  flour,  into  which 
salt  and  baking  powder  have  been  put,  then  nutmeg,  raisins  and 
flavoring.  Stir  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Drop  from  teaspoon 
on  buttered  tins,  leaving  a  space  between  each  cookie.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

FRUIT  COOKIES  NO.  1 

2  egg  1  cup  currants 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  salt 

%  cup  butter  and  cinnamon 

J/2  cup  hot  water  y$  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  raisins  }/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Mix  the  whole  with  enough  flour  to  roll  or  drop.     Bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

FRUIT  COOKIES  NO.  2 

l/2  cup  butter  l/2   teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  chopped  walnuts 

2  eggs  j4  cup  chopped  raisins 
l/2  teaspoon  soda  %  cup  chopped  currants 

3  tablespoons  hot  water  1%  white  flour 
%  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  soda  dis- 
solved in  water  and  one-half  the  flour  with  salt  and  cinnamon. 
Then  add  fruit  and  the  rest  of  the  flour.  Drop  on  greased  pan 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  or  twentv  minutes. 


84  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

GRAHAM  COOKIES 

3  cups  Graham  flour  4  tablespoons  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda  (scant) 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  eggs  well  beaten  Salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  eggs  and  milk,  then 
dry  ingredients,  previously  sifted.  Roll  thin,  cut  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

GINGER  COOKIES 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 
1  cup  molasses  3  tablespoons  hot  water 

1  cup  butter  or  crisco  Flour 

Mix  the  whole  with  enough  flour  to  roll  out  nicely.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

HONEY  DROP  COOKIES 

y*  cup  butter  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

y2  cup  sugar  3y2  cups  flour 

1  cup  honey  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  beaten  separately  Rind  of  lemon   (yellow  part 

only) 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  honey,  beaten  yolks  and  flour 
to  which  soda  has  been  added,  then  juice,  rind  of  lemon  and  beat- 
en whites.  Mix,  roll  thin,  cut  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  oatmeal 

2  eggs  1  CUP  raisins 

1  cup  butter  1   teaspoon  soda 
5  tablespoons  sour  milk  Salt 

2  cups  flour 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  beat  again,  then  add  melted  short- 
ening and  milk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved,  salt.  Mix 
well,  add  flour,  oatmeal,  chopped  raisins  well  floured.  Drop 
from  a  teaspoon  on  a  well  buttered  tin.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


COOKIES,   DOUGHNUTS   AND   WAFERS  85 

« 

FINOCHIE  WAFERS 

1  cup  brown  sugar  4  tablespoons  flour 

3  eggs  1  cup  chopped  walnuts 
l/4  teaspoon  baking  powder    Pinch  salt 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  then  dry  ingredients  and  nuts.  Must 
be  dropped  on  greased  enamel  pan  allowing  room  for  spreading. 
Bake  until  a  delicate  brown. 

ROLLED  OATS  COOKIES  NO.  1 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  butter  2l/2  cups  rolled  oats 

4  tablespoons  milk  2*4  cups  flour 

2  eggs  well  beaten  Salt 
1  scant  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  sugar,  butter,  eggs,  milk,  nutmeg  and  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  water,  salt,  then  flour  and  rolled  oats.  Roll  thin, 
cut  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ROLLED  OATS  COOKIES  NO.  2 

1  cup  Golden  "C"  sugar       l/>  cup  seedless  raisins 
l/2  cup  Wesson  or  Primrose    l/2  cup  chopped  nuts 

oil  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  l/2  teaspoon  soda     (dissolved 
2  cups  rolled  oats  in  a  little  hot  water) 

2  cups  flour 

Mix  sugar,  oil,  beaten  eggs,  add  flour  alternately  with  dis- 
solved soda,  then  add  nuts,  raisins  and  cinnamon.  After  mix- 
ing, let  dough  stand  about  an  hour,  then  drop  from  teaspoon  on 
a  well  buttered  tin.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ROLLED  OATS  COOKIES  NO.  3 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

Y^  cup  crisco  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  T  level  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  2  cups  rolled  oats 
2  level  cups  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  crisco.  Add  eggs  after  beating  well,  then 
raisins.  Sift  flour,  salt,  cinnamon  and  soda  together,  add  slow- 
ly to  mixture.  Stir  in  rolled  oats.  This  makes  a  very  stiff  mix- 
ture. Take  out  by  teaspoonfuls  and  roll  in  palm  of  hand.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven.  Sufficient  to  make  sixty-five. 


$6  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

* 

ROLLED  OATS  COOKIES  NO.  4 

Y^  cup  butter  or  crisco  1  scant  cup  chopped  raisins 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  well  beaten  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  24  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  rolled  oats 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs ;  mix  dry  ingredients  to- 
gether and  combine  with  first  mixture ;  add  raisins  and  drop  on 
buttered  pan.  Bake  in  slow  oven. 

ROLLED  OATS  COOKIES  NO.  5 

2  cups  rolled  oats  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  chopped  walnuts 

l/2  cup  butter  y2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

legg 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  then  well  beaten  eggs.     Mix     in 

flour,  rolled  oats  and  baking  powder,    lastly     nuts.     Drop     on 
greased  pan  and  bake  about  fifteen  minutes. 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES 

2/T,   cup  shortening  1  scant  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  Flour  enough  to  mix 

1  egg  Salt 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream 

Do  not  mix  too  stiff.  Before  baking  rub  lightly  with  the 
unbeaten  white  of  an  egg  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

WALNUT  COOKIES 

1  cup  chopped  walnuts  y2  teaspoon  each  of    ginger, 

1  cup  molasses  cloves  and  salt 

1/3  cup  melted  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg  well  beaten  3J/2  cups  Hour 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Mix  sugar,  molasses,  butter,  egg,  cinnamon,  ginger,  cloves 
and  salt,  add  soda  dissolved  in  one  teaspoon  boiling  water.  Mix 
well,  add  flour  and  nuts.  Pinch  off  small  pieces  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Roll  in  sugar  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 


COOKIES,   DOUGHNUTS   AND   WAFERS  87 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

1  small  cup  sugar  2  eggs  well  beaten 

1  small  cup  crisco  and  butter  2  level  -tablespoons  baking 

2  large  cups  flour  powder  ^e«- 
2  tablespoons  milk  Extract  or  spice 

Mix  sugar  and  shortening,  add  milk  and  eggs.  Sift  baking 
powder  with  flour  and  stir  all  together.  Roll,  cut  and  bake  in 
moderately  hot  oven. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS  NO.  1 

1  cake  Fleischman's  yeast       y2  cup  sugar 

1^4  cups  milk,  scalded  and     3  tablespoons  butter 

cooled  yj:  teaspoon  mace 

1  tablespoon  sugar  2  eggs 

±y2  cups  sifted  flour  %.  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  sugar  in  luke  warm  wa- 
ter, add  half  of  the  flour  and  beat  well,  cover  and  let  rise  in  warm 
place  for  about  an  hour  or  until  bubbles  burst  on  top.  Add  to 
this  the  butter  and  sugar  creamed,  mace,  eggs  well  beaten,  the 
remainder  of  the  flour  to  make  soft  dough,  and  lastly  the  salt. 
Knead  lightly.  Place  in  well  greased  bowl,  cover  and  allow  to 
rise  again  in  warm  place  for  about  one  and  one-half  hours.  When 
light,  turn  on  floured  board,  roll  to  about  one-fourth  inch  in 
thickness,  cut  with  small  doughnut-cutter,  cover  and  let  rise 
again,  on  floured  board,  in  warm  place  until  light,  about  forty- 
five  minutes  will  be  required.  Drop  into  deep  hot  fat  with  side 
uppermost  which  has  been  next  to  board.  When  a  film  of  smoke 
begins  to  rise  from  fat  it  will  be  found  to  be  the  right  tempera- 
ture in  which  to  cook  doughnuts.  Doughnuts  made  in  this  way 
do  not  absorb  the  fat  because  they  rise  before  and  not  after  they 
are  put  into  the  grease. 

DOUGHNUTS  NO.  2 

1  egg  y$  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg  2  tablespoons  crisco 

1  rounded  teaspoon  baking     *4  teaspoon  salt 

powder  Flour 

Yz  cup  sugar 

Mix  crisco,  sugar  and  egg,  add  milk,  salt,  nutmeg,  flour  ar.d 
baking  powder — enough  flour  for  soft  dough.  This  makes  about 
twenty-one  doughnuts. 


88  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

DOUGHNUTS  NO.  3 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  sour  milk 

3  teaspoons  melted  crisco  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
l/2.  teaspoon  salt  3^  cups  sifted  flour 
1  teaspoon  vinegar 

Put  eggs  in  mixing  bowl  and  beat  well,  add  sugar,  melted 
crisco,  milk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved,  then  nutmeg,  vine- 
gar and  flour.  Roll  on  lightly  floured  board,  cut  with  doughnut 
cutter  and  fry  in  deep  hot  crisco. 

DOUGHNUTS  NO.  4 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  egg  Salt 

1  cup  sweet  milk  Nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  butter  Flour 
Mix  all  together  and  roll. 

NUT  DOUGHNUTS  NO.  5 

\Y$  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

4  tablespoons  crisco  \l/2  teaspoons  lemon 
\Yz  cups  milk  ^2  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  l/2  cup  walnuts 
4  rounded  teaspoons  baking  Flour 

powder 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  milk,  salt, 
flavoring,  nuts  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

CHEESE  WATERS 

%  pound  grated  cheese          1  egg 

,4  tablespoons  sifted  flour       1  tablespoon  butter 

Salt 

Mix  cheese  and  flour,  add  egg,  butter  and  salt,  then  water 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  roll  very  thin,  cut  into  any  desired 
shape  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 


COOKIES,  DOUGHNUTS   AND   WAFERS  '89 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

4  tablespoons  sifted  flour        ]/2  teaspoon  salt 
2  cups  grated  cheese  \olks  of  2  eggs 

Knead  as  you  would  bread.  Roll  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Cut  in  strips  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

CHEESE  BALLS 

2  cups  grated  cheese  1  egg 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  all  together,  and  if  necessary  add  a  little  milk  to  mould 
into  balls,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  paper.  Serve  with  pie 
or  salads. 

CRUMBETTES 

y2  cup  butter  2  cups  rolled  oats 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  flour 

l/4  cup  boiling  water  l/2  cup  chopped  walnuts 

l/2  teaspoon  soda  l/2  cup  chopped  raisins 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water  in  which  soda 
has  been  dissolved,  then  rolled  oats,  flour,  nuts  and  raisins.  Mix 
and  let  stand  one  hour  before  rolling  out.  Bake  like  cookies  or 
drop  cakes. 

CREAM  PUFFS 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  flour  sifted 

Y2  cup  butter  3  eggs  unbeaten 

To  the  boiling  water  add  butter,  let  boil  a  minute,  then  add 
sifted  flour,  remove  from  fire,  beat  until  cool  and  add  unbeaten 
eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Stir  this  mixture  until  smooth.  Drop  a  ta- 
blespoon of  batter  into  hot  gem  pans  and  bake  one  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Fill  with  whipped  cream  or  rich  custard  with 
chopped  nuts  or  bananas. 

FRUITS  AND  NUT  BARS 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  dates  chopped 

24  cup  flour  Finch  of  baking  powder 

2  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 
1  cup  nuts  chopped 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  well,  add  nuts,  dates,  flour.  Bake  in 
shallow  pan,  lined  with  well  greased  heavy  paper.  When  cold 
cut  in  oblong  pieces  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 


90  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

HERMITS 

3  cups  brown  sugar  1   teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

6  cups  flour  4  tabVpoons  sweet  milk 

2  cups  raisins  4  eggs 

2  cups  currants  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  teaspoons  soda  A  htllc  grated  orange  peel 
Cream  butter  and  sugar.     Add  milk,  beaten  eggs  and  soda 

sifted  into  half  the  flour.  Add  fruit  and  nuts  which  have  been 
chopped  and  floured,  then  the  spices  and  balance  of  flour.  Roll 
and  bake  in-  moderate  oven. 

KISSES 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  6  drops  of  vanilla 

3  whites  of  eggs 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  on  a  platter  till  very  light  and  dry,  add 
sugar  gradually,  beating  it  in  well,  last  the  vanilla.  Drop  in 
spoonfuls  on  a  tin  baking  sheet  lightly  buttered.  Bake  one  hour 
in  an  extremely  slow  oven,  watching  carefully,  as  they  should 
not  be  more  than  a  deep  cream  color  when  done. 

If  the  kisses  are  made  according  to  directions  and  baked 
slowly,  they  will  not  spread  while  baking.  Do  not  beat  eggs  in 
a  bowl  but  on  a  platter,  with  a  flat  wire  egg-beater.  This  is  nec- 
essary to  obtain  results. 

KISSES  NO.  II 

2  egg  whites  1  tablespoon  cornstatch 
2/z  cup  sugar                            2x/2  cups  cocoanut 

Put  bowl  into  pan  of  hot  water  while  mixing  above  ingredi- 
ents. Drop  on  tin  and  bake. 

MACAROONS 

^2  pound  granulated  sugar    Y-2  teaspoon  almond  extract 
l/2.  pound  English  walnuts      Whites  of  2  eggs 
Add  sugar  gradually  to  the  unbeaten  whites  of  eggs.     Beat 

the  mixture  until  it  bubbles.     Add    flavoring,    stir  in  the  nuts. 

Heat  tins  and  oil  with  paraffin.     Take  mixture  out  by  teaspoon- 

fuls,  and  roll  in  palm  of  hand  to  size  of  small  walnut.     Bake  in 

moderate  oven.     Sufficient  for  fiftv  macaroons. 


COOKIES,   DOUGHNUTS   AND   WAFERS  91 

MARGUERITES 

l/2  cup  powdered  sugar          Lemon  extract 

Hot  milk  Salt 

Walnuts  chopped  Crackers 

To  powdered  sugar  add  enough  milk  to  make  right  consist- 
ency to  spread,  add  salt  and  extract.  Spread  this  on  crisp  soda 
crackers,  sprinkle  with  walnuts. 

PEANUT  WAFERS 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  raw  peanuts  Whites  of  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Mix  powdered  sugar  and  well  beaten  whites,  add  peanuts 

chopped,  flour  and  vanilla.     Drop  in  spoonfuls  on  well  buttered 

tin.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

WALNUT  WAFERS 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  eggs  1  cup  walnuts 

Mix  sugar  and  eggs,  add  flour  and  walnuts.  Roll  thin  and 
bake  in  quick  oven. 

ROCKS 

1  cup  crisco  or  butter  1   level   teaspoon     soda,     dis- 
\l/2  cups  brown  sugar  solved  in  */?  cup  hot  water 

3  cups  flour  1    rounded   teaspoon   baking 
3  eggs  or  7  yolks  powder 

2  cups   seeded   raisins  ]/2  cup  walnuts  chopped 
chopped                                   1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

%  teaspoon  cloves  l/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Mix  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  spices,  two  cups  of  the 
flour  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  soda.  Put  nuts  and  raisins 
into  remaining  cup  of  flour  and  add  to  mixture.  Drop  on  but- 
tered tin.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

CAKES  and  GINGER  BREAD 


ANGEL  CAKE 

10  eggs  (whites)  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

\y2  cups  sifted  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  sifted  flour 

Sift  sugar  once,  sift  flour  four  times,  add  cream  of  tartar 
and  sift  again.  Whip  eggs  to  stiff  froth  on  large  flat  platter,  add 
sugar  lightly,  then  flour  very  gently  and  vanilla.  Do  not  stop 
beating  until  put  into  the  pan  to  bake.  Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven, 
about  forty-five  minutes.  Turn  pan  upside  down  until  cool. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

y2  cup  butter  y2   teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  unsweetened  apple        1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 

sauce  tablespoon  boiling  water 

1^4  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  apple  sauce,  spices  and  soda 
dissolved,  then  flour.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ALMOND  CAKE 

l/2  pound  almonds  blanched    \l/2  cups  flour 

and  chopped  }/2  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

y2  pound  sugar  7  eggs 

y2  teaspoon  cram  tartar  Salt 

Beat  yolks  until  stiff  and  mix  with  almonds,  sugar,  flavor- 
ing and  salt.  Add  cream  of  tartar  to  whites  beaten  very  stiff 
and  fold  into  the  mixture.  Bake  in  pan  with  hole  in  center  about 
one  hour.  This  is  about  the  same  as  sponge  cake. 


CAKES  AND  GINGER  BREAD  93 

BISHOP  CAKE 

.1  cup  sugar  1  rounded  teaspoon  baking 

1l/4  cups  flour  powder 

1  cup  dates  3  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  walnuts  Salt 

Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  sugar,  then  to  this  add  nuts  and 
dates  rolled  in  flour  to  which  baking  powder  has  been  added. 
Baked  slowly. 

BLACK  CAXE 
Part  I. 

1  cu.p  grated  chocolate  l/2  cup  sweet  milk 

]  cup  brown  sugar 

Put  all  this  in  a  dish  on  the  stove,  let  it  come  to  boiling 
point,  stirring  that  it  may  not  burn.  Cool  and  mix  with  Part  II. 

Part  II. 

1  cup  brown  cugar  3  egg  yolks 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  cups  flour  heaped  a  little 

l/t  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  beaten  eggs,    flour-    in 

which  soda  has  been  sifted  and  bake  in  layers.     Fill  with  Black 

Cake  Filling. 

CHOCOLATE  GLACE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  ^2  cup  flour 

l/2  cup  butter  ~Ll/2  cups  flour 

1  square  Baker's  unsweet-  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
ened  chocolate  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  with  melted  chocolate,  drop  eggs 
unbeaten  into  this  and  beat  for  five  minutes.  Add  milk,  flour 
and  baking  powder,  vanilla  and  salt. 

CHOCOLATE  LOAF  CAKE 

Y-Z  cake  or  two  tablespoons    2  eggs 

chocolate  ^2  cup  milk 

YZ  cup  hot  water  2  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  4   teaspoons  baking  powder 

]/2  cup  butter 

Cook  chocolate  in  water,  cool.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add 
eggs,  milk,  flour  and  baking  powder.  When  chocolate  is  cool 
beat  into  batter.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 


94  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

COCOA  TEA  CAKES 

1  cup  sugar  3   level   teaspoons   baking 
Yz  cup  butter  powder 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Y>  cup  flour  Chopped  nuts 

YZ  cup  cornstarch  Salt 

Y$  cup  cocoa 

Mix  sugar,  butter  and  eggs,  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  to  first 
mixture,  add  flavoring.  Beat  well  and  put  into  well  buttered 
muffin  tins,  sprinkle  nuts  on  top,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

COCOA  CAKE 

\Y*  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

YZ  cup  butter  1   teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sour  milk  2  cups  flour,  measured  before 

YZ  cup  cocoa  or  chocolate        sifting 

dissolved  in  Y*  cup  not 

water 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given  and  bake  in  layers.  Use 
cocoa  filling. 

COFFEE  CAKE 

>s  cup  butter  1  egg 

YZ  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

YZ  cup  milk  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

\l/2  cups  sifted  flour  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg,  then  milk,  salt, 
flour  and  baking  powder.  Pour  into  flat  tins  making  dough  half 
inch  thick.  Dot  top  with  pieces  of  butter.  Sprinkle  generously 
with  cinnamon,  chopped  walnuts  and  sugar.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

CEEAM  SPONGE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

4  egg  yolks  powder 
\Y*   tablespoons  cornstarch  Pinch  of  salt 
3  tablespoons  cold  water  Flour 

Stir  sugar  and  yolks  together  until  light,  add  water.  Put 
cornstarch  into  cup,  fill  cup  with  flour,  add  baking  powder  and 
salt,  stir  into  first  mixture,  mix  well,  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


CAKES  AND  GINGER  BREAD  95 

CUP  CAKES  NO.  1 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

YZ  cup  butter  1  large  teaspoon  baking 

y*  cup  milk  powder 

1^2  cup  flour  Salt,  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs,  milk,  ilour  and 
baking  powder.  Flavor  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

CUP  CAKE  NO.  2 

2  cups  flour  1  rounded  teaspoon  baking 

1  cup  sugar  powder 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1  cup  milk 
Stir  together  and  bake. 

DATE  CAKE  NO.  1 

y*  cup  soft  butter  3  teaspoons   baking   powder 

\y$  cup  brown  sugar  y*  teaspoon  each  of  cinna- 

2  eggs  mon,  nutmeg,  cloves,  salt 
y*  cup  milk  l/2   pound  dates  cut  into 
\Y$  cup  flour                                 pieces 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  other  ingredients,  beat  for 
three  minutes  and  bake  for  forty  minutes.  This  cake  is  delicious. 

DATE  CAKE  NO.  2 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

5  eggs  1  cup  dates 

1  rounded  teaspoon  baking     1  cup  walnuts 

powder 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar,  add  flour,  baking  powder,  nuts  and 
dates,  then  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  two  layers,  use  whipped 
cream  for  filling. 


96  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

DOLLY  VARDEN  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  y2  teaspoon  soda 
l/2  cup  butter   (scant)             y2  cup  milk 

2  cups  flour  (scant)  whites  of  three  eggs 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar      Vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  whites,  beat  the 
mixture  five  minutes.  Add  one  cup  of  flour  with  cream  of  tar- 
tar, milk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved,  then  the  remaining 
cup  of  flour.  Flavor.  While  hot  cover  with  Gilt  Edge  Frosting 
made  of  the  beaten  yolks  and  twenty-five  teaspoons  of  powdered 
sugar.  Mapleine  frosting  may  be  used. 

GERMAN  APPLE  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 
l/^  good  teaspoons  baking    Cinnamon 

powder  Salt 

2  eggs  Milk 

2  tablespoons  crisco  Apples 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  add  crisco  and 
butter,  mix  thoroughly,  then  add  sugar,  eggs  and  enough  milk  to 
make  a  dough  as  for  pie  crust.  Roll,  put  into  square  baking  pan, 
well  greased  and  spread  dough  on  the  sides.  Peel  six  apples  and 
cut  into  sixteenths.  Place  in  rows  as  close  as  possible  on  cake. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  until  apples  are  done. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

GINGER  BREAD 

1  cup  brown  sugar  (golden     y>  cup  sour  or  butter  milk 
C)  2  cups  flour 

y2  cup  molasses  \l/2  teaspoons  ginger 

3  tablespoons  Wesson  or       y2  teaspoon  soda 
Primrose  oil  (dissolved  in  hot  water) 

2  eggs 

Mix  sugar,  molasses,  oil  and  beaten  eggs.  Add  sour  milk, 
dissolved  soda,  flour  and  ginger.  Grease  pan  well,  then  dust  with 
flour.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


CAKES  AND  GINGER  BREAD  97 

GINGER  BREAD  (Soft) 

l/^  cups  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

\y2  cups  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  allspice 

\y2  cups  butter  l/2  teaspoon  ginger 

\l/2  cups  sweet  milk  3  cups  flour 

Mix  sugar,  butter  and  molasses.  Add  milk  in  which  soda  has 

been  dissolved,  flour,  ginger  and  allspice.     Grease  pan  well  then 

dust  with  flour.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

HOT  GINGERBREAD 

1l/2  cups  sifted  flour  l/2  teaspoon  ginger 

l/2  teaspoon  soda  l/4  cup  butter  or  crisco 

l/2   teaspoon  baking  powder  ]/2   cup  sugar 
l/2  teaspoon  cinnamon  y2  cup  molasses 

y2  teaspoon  nutmeg  1/2  cup  milk 

l/2  teaspoon  cloves  1  egg  well  beaten 

Sift  flour  with  soda,  baking  powder  and  spices.  Cream  but- 
ter, sugar  and  molasses,  add  egg,  then  add  flour  and  milk,  al- 
ternating'. Bake  twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

JAM  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  3  tablespoons  sour  milk 

1  cup  sugar  >/2   teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  flour  l/2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  jam  l/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  sour  milk,  jam  and  spices.  Sift 
flour  to  which  soda  has  been  added.  Stir  in  well  beaten  egg?. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  layers.  Use  Cream  Filling  No.  2. 

LAYER  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  2  cups  flour 

3  eggs  3  level  teaspoons  baking 
Y^  cup  cornstarch  powder 

1  cup  milk  }/2  teaspoon  extract  of  lemon 

y2  teaspoon  almond  extract     Juice  ><  lemon 
24  cup  butter 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  light, 
flour,  cornstarch  sifted  with  baking  powder,  alternating  the 
flour  with  one  cup  of  milk.  Beat  thoroughly,  add  extract,  lem- 
on juice  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  layers 
and  put  together  with  Cream  Filling  No.  1. 


98  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

MINUTE  CAKE 

2  eggs  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
1  heaping  cup  flour  (with-         powder 

out  sifting)  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1   scant  cup   sugar  Milk 

3  tablespoons  chocolate  Butter  size  of  an  egg 
Measure  dry  ingredients  and  put  into  sifter;  sift  into  mix- 
ing bowl.    Take  same  cup  and  put  a  small  quantity  of  milk  into 
it,  break  eggs  into  cup  without  beating,  melt  butter  and  put  into 
cup,  then  fill  up  cup  with  milk  and  stir  into  the  flour  mixture, 
add  vanilla.     Bake  in  two  layers  in  moderate  oven.     Use  Cream 
Filling  No.  3. 

A  splendid  cake  that  never  fails  and  keeps  moist  several 
days. 

MOCHA  CAKE 

l/4  cup  sugar  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

>4  cup  milk  powder 

1  cup  flour  2  squares  melted  chocolate 

1  egg  54  teaspoon  salt 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter    Vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  salt,  milk,  va- 
nilla, flour,  chocolate  and  baking  powder.  Mix  well  and  add 
white  of  eggs.  Bake  in  two  layers  in  hot  oven.  Use  Mocha  Fill- 
ing. 

MOLASSES  CAKES 

l/2  cup  sugar  1  egg 

Y2  cup  shortening  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  molasses  2  teaspoons  soda  (level) 

1  teaspoon  ginger  2  tablespoons  boiling  water 

l/2   teaspoon  cinnamon  2^2  cups  flour 

l/2  teaspoon  salt 

Put  into  a  warm  bowl  the  sugar,  shortening,  which  should 
be  measured  scantily,  molasses,  ginger,  salt,  cinnamon.  Set 
bowl  on  back  part  of  range  until  ingredients  have  become  warm : 
then  remove  to  table,  add  egg  unbeaten  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Now  add  milk  and  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Stir  well, 
then  beat  in  flour.  Bake  cakes  in  buttered  muffin-pans  in  mod- 
erate oven  about  twenty  minutes.  This  amount  will  make  two 
dozen  cakes. 


CAKES  AND  GINGER  BREAD  99 


NUT  CAKE  NO.  1 

1  cup  sugar  1^2  cups  flour 

*/2  cup  butter  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

T/2  cup  sweet  milk  powder 

Y$  cup  chopped  nuts  £4  teaspoon  vanilla 

4  egg  whites 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  then  flour  with    which 

baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  add  vanilla  and  whites  of  eggs 

well  beaten.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

NUT  CAKE  NO.  2 

Y-2.  cup  shortening  2  cups  flour 

\.l/2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Y$  cup  milk  Whites  of  4  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  then  flour  and  baking 

powder  sifted  together,  nuts,  vanilla  and  whites  of  eggs  well 

beaten.       Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ORANGE  LAYER  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

1  cup  cold  water  1  tablespoon  orange  juice 

3  cups  flour  A  little  grated  orange  rind 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  water,  flour  in  which  baking 

powder  has  been  sifted,  then  eggs  well  beaten,  orange  juice  and 
rind.  Bake  in  layers.  Use  Orange  Filling. 

POTATO  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
%  cup  butter  2  squares  grated  chocolate 

1  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes     1  cup  chopped  walnuts 

T/2  cup  sweet  milk  or  cold      1  teaspoon  powdered  cinna- 
water  mon 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  powdered  cloves 

4  eggs  ]/2  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 
Cream   butter  and   sugar,   add   yolks   of   eggs   well   beaten, 

flour  mixed  with  baking  powder,  spices,  milk,  potatoes  mixed 
with  chocolate,  walnuts  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
The  potatoes  must  be  hot  when  mixed  with  the  chocolate. 
Bake  in  loaf  or  layers  and  ice  with  White  Icing.  A  delicious 
cake. 


100  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

PRIZE  LOAF  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  \l/2  teaspoons  baking  po.vder 
l/2  cup  butter  or  crisco            2  level  tablespoons  ground 

(scant)  chocolate 

2  eggs  YZ  cup  seedless  raisins 
y2  cup  milk  Y^  cup  walnuts  meats 
\l/2  cups  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening,  add  egg  yolks,  beat  well,  add 
milk,  then  flour  which  has  been  sifted  two  or  three  times  with 
baking  powder.  Add  half  teaspoon  salt  if  crisco  is  used.  Beat 
whites  thoroughly  and  add  carefully.  Separate  dough  into  even 
parts.  To  one  add  the  chocolate  or  cocoa,  which  has  been  mois- 
tened with  a  little  milk,  then  the  raisins,  and  spices,  if  desired. 

To  the  white  part  add  the  walnuts,  cut  into  half  inch  pieces. 
Put  a  spoonful  of  light  and  then  dark  into  cake  pan  until  all  is 
used.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Frost  with  Choc- 
olate Filling. 


PRUNE  CAKE  NO.  1 

1  cup  butter  1  cup  prune  juice 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda  (dissolved 

l/2  cup  nut  meats  in  warm  water) 

1  cup  prunes  Yolk  of  2  eggs 
2^  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  yolks,    beat    well,    then 

add  prunes  cut  fine,  prune  juice,  soda,  flour  and  nut  meats.  Bake 

fifty  minutes. 


PRUNE  CAKE  NO.  2 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 

2  tablespoons  butter  warm  water 

2  eggs  1  cup  chopped  walnuts 
124  cups  flour                          1  cup  prune  juice 

3  teaspoons  chocolate  Spice,  cinnamon,  salt 
1  cup  chopped  stewed  prunes 

Cream  sugar,  butter  and  eggs,  add  chocolate,  spice,  salt, 
stir  well;  add  prunes,  prune  juice,  nuts,  mix  well;  then  flour, 
lastly  soda.  Bake  in  layers  in  moderate  oven.  Use  Cream  Fill- 
ing No.  1. 


CAKES  AND  GINGER  BREAD  101 

QUICK  TEA  CAKES 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

Y?  cup  butter  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 

l/2  cup  milk  powder 

2  eggs 

Put  all  together  and  beat  four  minutes  with  a  silver  fork. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  in  gem  pans  in  quick  oven.  One 
cup  raisins  improves  cakes. 

SNOW  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Y-2  cup  butter  Whites  of  4  eggs 

y2  cup  milk  Flavoring 

1^2  cups  flour 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  unbeaten  whites,  beat 
until  foamy,  add  flavoring.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  twice, 
add  to  first  mixture  alternately  with  the  milk.  Bake  in  moder- 
ate oven. 

SWISS  CAKE 

1  cup  cream  Enough  flour  to  knead  like 

1  cup  sugar  bread 
6  eggs 

Mix,  roll  thin  and  fry  same  as  doughnuts. 

WHITE  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  butter  Whites  of  5  eggs 

1  cup  milk  Flavoring 

3  cups  sifted  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  flavoring,  flour  sifted 
with  baking  powder  and  lastly  well  beaten  whites. 

For  a  yellow  cake  use  yolks  of  eggs  beating  well  and  mixing 
with  the  creamed  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  the  other  ingredi- 
ents. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 
y$  cup  butter  l/2  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  2^2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

\Y^  cups  flour  y-2.   teaspoon  lemon  extract 

y?  cup  cornstarch  ^2  teaspoon  almond  extract 

3  egg  whites 

Cream  butter  and  gradually  beat  in  sugar.  Sift  flour,  corn- 
starch  and  baking  powder,  add  alternately  to  cream  mixture 
with  a  half  cup  milk,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  add  ex- 
tract. Use  any  preferred  filling.  Bake  in  layers. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

FILLINGS  and  FROSTINGS 


BANANA  FILLING 

2  egg  whites  y2  cup  sugar 

3  bananas  Salt 

Beat  whites,  add  sugar,  salt.  Slice  bananas  enough  to  cov- 
er layers.  Spread  mixture  over  bananas. 

BLACK  CAKE  FILLING 

1  cup  brown  sugar  ^  cup  sweet  milk 

YZ  cup  butter 

Boil  until  of  a  creamy  thickness.  Spread  between  layers  ot 
cake  and  on  top. 

BOILED  ICING 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

l/2  cup  water 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  will  spin,  making  a  hair-like 
thread.  Beat  white  of  egg  to  stiff  froth  and  continue  beating  it 
with  an  egg  beater  while  the  syrup  is  poured  on  slowly  by  some 
one  else.  It  can  be  used  immediately. 

BROWN  SUGAE  FROSTING  NO.  1 

l/^  cups  medium  brown         1  teaspoon  butter 

sugar  y2  teaspoon  vanilla 

\l/3  cups  milk 

Boil  sugar,  milk  and  butter  until  a  soft  ball  forms  when 
dropped  into  water.  Cool  until  tepid.  Add  vanilla  and  beat  un- 
til thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake. 

BROWN  SUGAR  FROSTING  NO.  2 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  tablespoons  water  White  of  one  egg 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped 
into  cold  water.  Pour  gradually  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites, 
beating  constantly  until  the  mixture  is  of  the  right  consistency 
to  spread.  Add  flavoring  and  spread  evenly  over  cold  cake. 


FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS  103 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  5  tablespoons  milk 

3  tablespoons  chocolate  Vanilla 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  and  cook  slowly  five  minutes. 

COCOA  FILLING 

l/2.  cup  sugar  1  heaping  tablespoon  cocoa 

Y$  cup  boiling  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  heaping  tablespoon  flour    Butter  size  of  egg 
Mix  flour,  cocoa  and  sugar,  pour  hot  water  slowly  on  this 

mixture  and  cook,  stirring  until  smooth  and  thick,  add  vanilla 

and  butter. 

CREAM  FILLING  NO.  1 

Y$  cup  sugar  Butter 

Yz  cup  milk  Vanilla 

Boil  until  threads  form  when  spoon  is  lifted  above  sauce- 
pan. Add  butter  size  of  an  almond  and  a  few  drops  vanilla. 
Stir  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

CREAM  FILLING  NO.  2 

24  cup  powdered  sugar  2  teaspoons  cold  water 

1  egg,  white  Extract 

Beat  egg  stiff,  add  water  and  sugar.  Beat  thoroughly,  add 
flavoring.  Spread  with  a  spatula. 

CREAM  FILLING  NO.  3 

2  cups  sugar  Butter  size  of  an  egg 
%  cup  milk                               Vanilla 

Boil  sugar,  milk  and  butter  slowly  fifteen  minutes  or  until 
it  gathers  together  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Remove  from 
fire  and  pour  into  large  bowl,  add  one  tablespoon  vanilla  and 
beat  until  cold.  Place  between  layers  and  cover  sides  and  top. 

GILT  EDGE  FROSTING 

3  egg  yolks  25  teaspoons  powdered  sugar 
Beat  yolks  until  lemon  color,  add  sugar  gradually.    Spread 

on  while  cake  is  hot. 


104  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

LEMON  FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 

y*  tablespoon  butter  lemon 

Yolks  of  two  eggs 

Put  ingredients  into  double-boiler,  stir  and  cook  until  the 
mixture  thickens.  Spread  between  the  layers  of  cake.  Ice  the 
top  with  White  Icing  made  from  the  whites  of  eggs  not  used  in 
filling. 

MAPLEINE 

1  cup  sugar  y2  teaspoon  mapleine 

l/2  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  butter 

Mix  all  together  and  cook  until,  when  dropped  from  spoon 

into  cold  water,  it  will  hold  together.     Remove  from  stove,  stir 

until  right  consistency  to  spread. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM  FILLING 

1  tablespoon  gelatine  y2  cup  grated  pineapple 

y%  cup  boiling  water  1  scant  cup  sugar 

l/2  pint  whipping  cream           Pinch  salt 

yt  cup  cold  water 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  water,  sugar, 
salt  and  pineapple.  Whip  cream  stiff  and  when  gelatine  begins 
to  set,  which  will  be  about  two  hours,  whip  cream  into  it.  Al- 
low this  to  stand  twenty  minutes  or  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 
Stir  frequently  so  fruit  will  not  settle  to  bottom. 

This  filling  may  be  made  the  day  before  and  cut  into  slices 
ready  to  use. 

MOCHA  FILLING  NO.  1 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  strong  hot  cof- 

1  tablespoon  butter,  heaping      fee 

y-z  teaspoon  vanilla  2  tablespoons  cocoa 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.     Add  vanilla,  coffee  and  cocoa. 

MOCHA  FILLING  NO.  2 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  3    tablespoon    ground    choco- 
y>  cup  melted  butter  late  or  cocoa 

l/2  cup  chopped  walnuts          1  tablespoon  strong  coffee 

Salt 

Mix  sugar,  chocolate,  add  coffee,  stir,  then  add  butter,  stir 
again,  and  when  smooth  add  walnuts. 


FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS  105 

NUT  FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  2  egg  whites 

y$  cup  water  1  cup  walnut  meats  chopped 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  stiff  (not  brittle)  when 
tried  in  cold  water.     Beat  whites  to  stiff  froth,  turn  into  boil- 
ing sugar  and  stir  until  the  mixture  creams.     Add  walnut  meats 
to  two-thirds  of  this  cream  and  spread    between    the    layers. 
Spread  the  remaining  one-third  over  the  top. 

ORANGE  FILLING 

3  egg  whites 

2  cups  sugar 
1  cup  milk 

Whip  whites  of  eggs  with  sugar  to  stiff  froth,  add  grated 
rinds  and  pulp  of  oranges  and  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  water.  Stir  mixture  into  boiling  milk  and  cook  in  double- 
boiler  until  it  thickens.  Do  not  allow  to  boil.  Place  between 
layers  while  hot. 


To  white  of  one  egg  beaten  a  little,  add  six  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  continually.  Flavor. 

UNCOOKED  FROSTING  NO.  2 

l/t  cup  powdered  sugar  Milk  to  soften 

%  teaspoon  lemon  extract      Pinch  salt 
Put  together  in  order  given,  stir  until  smooth  and  spread 
Fruit  coloring  may  be  added. 

WHITE  ICING 

1  cup  sugar  y^  tablespoon  vinegar 

7  tablespoons  water  2  egg  whites 

Put  sugar  into  small  saucepan,  add  water  and'  vinegar  and 
cook  until  a  thread  forms ;  then  pour  over  beaten  whites,  beat 
until  cool  enough  to  spread.  Half  a  teaspoon  of  pistachio  ex- 
tract will  give  a  delicious  flavor  to  icing. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

BREADS  and  BREAKFAST  FOODS 

EVER  READY  YEAST 

1  cake  Magic  yeast  1  pint  potato  water 

1  cup  warm  water  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Soak  yeast  cake  in  warm  water,  strain  through  fine  cloth, 
add  to  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled  without  salt, 
also  warm,  put  into  quart  glass  jar,  keep  in  warm  place 
to  rise  about  five  or  six  hours.  When  ready  to  use,  it  will  be 
covered  with  fine  white  foam.  Use  one  cup  of  yeast  for  four  or 
five  loaves  of  bread. 

Leave  one  cup  of  yeast  in  jar,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar. 
When  bread  is  to  be  made  again,  add  potato  water  unsalted  as 
before,  let  rise  and  use  again,  leaving  enough  for  another  start. 
Add  sugar  each  time.  This  yeast  renewed  in  this  way  will  keep 
a  year  or  more. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  NO.  1 

2  cups  cornmeal  3  cups  sour  milk 
1  cup  rye  meal  or  Graham     l/2  cup  molasses 

flour  Salt 

1  tablespoon  soda 

Mix  ingredients,  steam  four  hours  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  NO.  2 

\\  cups  cornmeal  1  cup  flour 

2  cups  sweet  milk  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  N.  O.  molasses  1  rounded  teaspoon  soda 

Stir  boiling  sweet  milk  into  cornmeal.  When  cool  add  mo- 
lasses, flour,  sour  milk  and  soda.  Steam  three  hours. 


BREADS  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS  107 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  NO.  3 

1l/2  cups  rye  flour  1  cup  molasses 

V/2  cups  yellow  cornmeal      1  teaspoon  soda 
2  cups  sour  milk 
Mix  flour  and  cornmeal,  add  sour  milk  in  which  soda     has 

been  dissolved,  then  molasses.     Fill    baking    powder  cans  not 

quite  half  full  and  steam  three  hours. 

BRAN  BREAD 

2  cups  Ralston  Bran  1  cup  molasses 

4  cups  white  flour  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

154  cups  sweet  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1^4  cups  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  bran  and  flour,  add  baking  powder  and  salt,  then  liquid, 

molasses  and  raisins.     Bake  in  slow    oven    one    and    one-half 

hours.     This  will  make  two  loaves. 

BROWN  BREAD 

1  cup  bran  ( Ralston 's)  1  teaspoon  butter 

2  cups  Graham  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  small  cup  rye  flour  l/2.  teaspoon  soda 
l/^  cups  white  flour  Y^  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  Enough  milk  for  stiff  batter 
2  tablespoons  molasses 

Mix  ingredients  and  bake  one  hour  in  medium  oven. 

COFFEE  BREAD 

2  cups  flour  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon 
y$  cup  sugar  ^  cup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder    1  egg 

Y-2.  teaspoon  salt  2/$  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Sift  dry  ingredients  twice.  Mix  to  a  soft  dough  with  milk 
and  well  beaten  egg.  Sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  sugar  and 
chopped  walnuts.  Bake  in  a  biscuit  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 


108  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CORN  BREAD  (Steamed) 

2  cups  sour  milk  \Y*  level  teaspoons  soda 

YZ  cup  molasses  2  cups  cornmeal 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  cup  flour 

1  level  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  ingredients  and  pour  into  four  one- pound  baking  pow- 
der cans.  The  mixture  is  thin.  Fill  each  can  about  two-thirds 
full  and  cover.  Steam  three  hours.  Remove  from  cans  by  slip- 
ping spatula  or  thin  knife  around  side. 

CORNMEAL  MUSH  BREAD 

Make  a  stiff  mush  with  about  two  or  three  cups  of  water 
and  white  cornmeal.  Thin  with  milk  to  about  the  consistency  of 
batter  for  gems,  add  a  well  beaten  egg  and  salt  to  taste.  Pour 
in  pudding  dish  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  Eat  with  but- 
ter while  hot. 

CORNMEAL  LOAF 

2  cups  cornmeal  iy2   cups  boiling  water 

1  level  teaspoon  salt  I  cup  sweet  milk 

2  level   teaspoons   baking       I  level  tablespoon  crisco 
powder 

Sift  cornmeal  and  salt.  Pour  boiling  water  over  this,  stir- 
ring all  the  while.  Stir  in  one  half  the  milk  and  melted  crisco. 
Quickly  dissolve  baking  powder  in  remaining  half  cup  milk,  and 
stir  immediately  into  the  mixture.  Pour  into  tin  and  bake  at 
once  in  moderate  oven  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes.  The  boil- 
ing water  partly  cooks  the  meal  and  develops  the  corn  flavor. 
Even  if  the  bread  may  not  seem  light,  it  is  very  wholesome. 

CORN  PONE 

1  cup  white  flour  l/z  teaspoon  soda 

1  heaping  cup  cornmeal  yj.  cup  syrup 

1  teaspoon  sugar  J  pint  sweet  milk 

YZ  teaspoon  salt 

iMix  in  the  order  given  and  pour  into  a  well  greased  pall. 
Cover  with  a  light  iid,  place  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
one  hour  and  forty  minutes.  Nice  with  baked  beans. 


BREADS  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS         109 

GEAHAM  BREAD  NO.  1 

2  cups  Graham  flour  2  tablespoons  syrup 
1  cup  wheat  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt  Sour  milk  to  make  stiff  dough 

Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  slowly  half  an  hour  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  NO.  2 

0  cups  Graham  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cnp  white  flour  y*  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  soda  2}^  cups  sour  milk 

Sift  white  flour,  soda  and  salt..  Mix  molasses  and  sour 
milk  and  add.  Lastly  stir  in  Graham  flour.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  NO.  3 

3  cups  Graham  flour  y2  cup  raisins 

2  cups  sour  milk  y2  cup  sugar 
1  teaspoon  soda  Salt 


Mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt,  add  milk  in  which  soda  has  been 
dissolved,  beaten  egg  and  raisins.  Bake  one  hour  in  moderate 
oven. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  NO.  4 

2  cups  Graham  flour  2  cups  sweet  milk 

2  cups  white  flour  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  chopped  walnuts  and 

1  teaspoon  salt  raisins 

4  rounded    teaspoons    baking 

powder 

Mix  in  order  given.  Let  stand  ten  minutes  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  one  hour. 


110  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 


1  quart  Graham  flour  \l/2  teaspoons  salt 

I  quart  white  flour  %  CUP  brown  sugar 

1  yeast  cake  1  quart  milk 

Scald  milk  and  pour  over  sugar  and  salt.  When  luke- 
warm, stir  in  the  flour  and  yeast  which  has  been  dissolved  in 
warm  water.  Beat  hard  and  let  rise  in  pan  until  spongy.  This 
is  a  dough  which  is  not  stiff  enough  to  knead,  it  simply  require* 
a  thorough  stirring  and  beating.  Put  into  greased  pans,  let  rise 
and  bake  in  an  oven  which  is  hot  at  first  and  cool  during  the 
latter  part  of  the  baking  process.  This  dough  may  be  used  to 
drop  into  greased  pans  for  muffins. 

JOHNNY  CAKE 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  corn  meal  l/2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  flour  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

y2  cup  sugar  Salt 

1  egg 

Sift  flour,  meal,  sugar,  soda,  baking  powder  and  salt  to- 
gether, add  beaten  egg,  milk  and  then  melted  butter.  Bake  in 
gem  pans  in  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

NUT  BREAD  NO.  1 

1  egg  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  floured  nuts 

1  cup  milk  Salt 

4  scant  cups  flour 

Mix  above  ingredients,  raise  fifteen  minutes  and  bake  forty- 
five  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

NUT  BEEAD  NO.  2 

4  cups  flour  sifted  twice          \y2  cups  chopped  walnuts 

>4  cup  sugar  1^  cups  milk 

4  level  teaspoons  baking         1  egg  beaten  light 

powder  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sift.  Add  to  this 
the  milk,  egg  and  chopped  walnuts.  Put  into  two  pans  and  let 
stand  twenty  minutes.  Bake  in  slow  oven.  Raisins  may  be  used 
if  desired. 


BREADS  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS          111 

NUT  BREAD  NO.  3 

3  cups  of  Graham  flour          y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  wheat  flour  y2  cup  molasses 

2  cups  sour  milk  1  cup  nuts  chopped 

1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved       1  cup  raisins 
in  the  milk 

Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  one  hour. 

NUT  BROWN  BREAD 

2  cups  Graham  flour  2  level  teaspoons  soda 
\y2  cups  white  flour                2  cups  sour  milk 

y2  cup  cornmeal  y2  cup  molasses 

y*  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  broken  nuts 

1  level  teaspoon  baking 
powder 

Dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk,  add  molasses  and  mix  with  dry 
ingredients,  stir  in  nuts  and  bake  forty-five  minutes  in  moder- 
ate oven. 

OATMEAL  BREAD  NO.  1 

2  cups  rolled  oats  y2  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  tablespoons  brown  sugar      1  rounded  teaspoon  salt 
1  tablespoon  crisco  Flour 

Pour  boiling  water  over  rolled  oats,  cover  and  let  stand  till 
slightly  warm.  Add  sugar  and  the  yeast  which  has  been  dis- 
solved in  one-half  cup  lukewarm  water.  Stir  in  about  one  and 
a  half  cups  flour ;  let  batter  stand  till  light.  Then  add  nuts, 
salt,  melted  crisco  and  flour  to  make  dough.  Knead  well,  put  into 
greased  bowl,  let  rise  till  double  in  size.  Make  into  two  loaves, 
let  rise  and  bake.  This  may  be  started  in  the  morning  and  be 
served  for  lunch. 


112  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

OATMEAL  BREAD  NO.  2 

2  level  cups  rolled  oats  1  tablespoon  molasses 

2  cups  hot  water  not  boiling  ]/2  cake  compressed  yeast 
1  tablespoon  butter  Flour 

1  tablespoon  crisco  Salt 

Pour  hot  water  over  rolled  oats,  stir  until  all  is  wet,  add 
butter,  crisco,  molasses,  salt  and  yeast  dissolved  in  cup  of  warm 
water.  Add  white  flour  until  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with 
spoon.  Let  stand  overnight  and  put  into  pan  in  morning,  let  rise 
very  light ;  no  kneading. 

ROMAN  MEAL  BREAD 

3  cups  Roman  meal  2  cups  sour  milk 

l/^  cups  flour  YZ  cup  New  Orleans  molasses 

1  teaspoon  salt  (level)  \l/2  teaspoons  soda 

1  egg  Crisco  or  butter  size  of  an  egg 
Mix  Roman  meal,  flour  and  salt,    combine  sour  milk,  egg, 

molasses  and  soda  previously  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water ;  add 
to  dry  ingredients,  then  stir  in  melted  shortening  and  bake  about 
forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

RYE  BREAD 

For  five  loaves  of  bread  add  one  sifter  of  rye  flour.  Fol- 
low any  good  white  bread  recipe.  This  proportion  of  rye  flour 
makes  excellent  rye  bread. 

UNLEAVENED  BREAD 

2  cups  white  flour  */$  cup  olive  oil 

1  quart  Graham  flour  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  cups  cold  water 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  stir  oil  into  water  and  knead,  roll  out 
thin,  cut  in  oblong  pieces,  prick  with  fork  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  until  crisp. 

VIRGINIA  SPOON  BREAD 

1  cup  yellow  cornmeal  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  pint  sweet  milk  Salt  to  taste 

2  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter 

Let  milk  scald,  not  boil,  add  butter,  stir  meal  in  rapidly  to 
keep  from  lumping.  Beat  eggs  and  baking  powder  together  and 
add  last.  Bake  quickly. 


BREADS  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS  113 

WHITE  BREAD 

3  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  salt 

3  cups  water  1  cake  compressed  yeast 
2  tablespoons  crisco  Flour 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Heat  milk,  put  in  crisco  and  when  melted  add  cold  water, 
sugar  and  salt.  Into  this  tepid  mixture  stir  sifted  flour,  until 
like  cake  batter.  Then  add  yeast  which  has  been  dissolved  in 
one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water.  Stir  in  more  flour  until  dough 
is  very  stiff.  Cover  and  let  stand  overnight.  In  the  morning 
knead  in  more  flour  and  make  into  loaves.  Grease  loaves  and 
let  stand  until  about  double  in  size,  then  bake.  If  desired,  po- 
tato or  rice  water  may  be  used  in  the  mixing;  also  one-half  the 
flour  may  be  whole  wheat.  For  rolls  knead  a  tablespoon  of  cris- 
co into  a  piece  of  the  dough,  form  and  let  rise. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 

2  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  crisco 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder      34  cup  milk  and  water  in 
1  teaspoon  salt  equal  parts 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sift  twice.  Work  in  butter  and 
crisco  with  tips  of  fingers,  add  gradually  the  liquid  mixing  with 
knife  to  a  soft  dough.  Toss  on  board,  pat  and  roll  lightly  to 
one-half  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  and  bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen 
minutes. 

CORNMEAL  ROLLS 

24  cup  cornmeal  Y*  teaspoon  salt 

1%  cups  floiir  1  tablespoon  crisco 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder    1  egg 

(level)  Y*  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  mix  with  crisco,  using  tips  of  fingers, 
add  beaten  egg  and  milk.  Roll  to  one-half  inch  thickness,  cut 
with  large  biscuit  cutter,  brush  over  with  melted  butter  or  cris- 
co, fold  over  as  for  Parkerhouse  rolls,  brush  tops  with  beaten 
or  tnilk  and  bake  in  hot  oven  ten  minutes. 


114  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

COTTON  BALL  BISCUITS 

4  cups  flour  4  rounded  teaspoons  baking 

2  cups  milk  powder 

3  tablespoons   Wesson  or       1  teaspoon  sugar 
Primrose  oil  1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt.  Mix  milk  and 
oil,  add  to  sifted  ingredients.  Turn  out  onto  well  floured  bread 
board  and  knead  gently  until  the  dough  feels  smooth  under 
hands.  Pat  to  half  an  inch  with  rolling  pin.  Cut  out  and  let 
stand  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before  baking.  Will  make  three 
dozen  small-sized  biscuits. 

DELICIOUS  TEA  BOLLS 

2  tablespoons  butter  3  cups  flour 

2  tablespoons  sugar  3  rounded  teaspoons  baking 

2  eggs  powder 
1  cup  sweet  milk  Salt 

Beat  together  butter,  sugar  and  eggs,  add  salt,  milk  flour 
and  baking  powder.  Grease  a  dripping  pan  with  butter  and  drop 
one  tablespoonful  in  each  place  or  drop  in  gem  pans.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

ENGLISH  TEA  BISCUITS 

4  cups  flour  1  cup  seedless  raisins 

3  rounded  teaspoons  baking  y2  teaspoon  salt 
powder  Milk 

1  heaping  tablespoon  crisco     1  egg  well  beaten 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  together  and  work 
in  the  crisco.  Then  add  raisins,  egg  and  milk  enough  to  make 
like  biscuit  dough.  Turn  on  slightly  floured  board,  roll  out  un- 
til about  an  inch  thick  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Bake  in  quick 
oven  about  fifteen  minutes  and  rub  over  with  butter  when  done. 
Two  dozen  biscuits. 

GRAHAM  BISCUITS 

2  cups  Graham  flour  Butter  or  crisco  size  of  an 
1  cup  white  flour  egg 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder     Salt 

Milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  rub  in  shortening,  add  milk  enough  to 
make  soft  dough,  roll,  cut  and  bake. 


BREADS  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS  115 

MAPLE  BISCUITS 

1  quart  flour  y$  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  Milk 

4  heaping  teaspoons  baking    Grated  maple  sugar 

powder 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Work  butter  in  with 
finger  tips  and  add  just  enough  milk  to  make  a  dough.  Roll  out 
in  a  rectangular  shape  and  spread  with  the  maple  sugar.  Roll 
the  dough  as  for  a  jelly  roll  and  cut  in  slices.  Place  these  close 
together  in  well-buttered  pans  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

OLIVE  OIL  BISCUIT 

3  cups  sifted  flour  6  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  teaspoon  salt  Milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Put  oil  into  measuring  cup,  fill  cup 
with  milk,  turn  this  into  flour,  then  add  another  cup  of  milk. 
Hake  in  moderate  oven. 

ROLLS 

» 
3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  cup  water  1  teaspoon  crisco 

1  yeast  cake  YZ  teaspoon  salt 

Warm  water  and  pour  over  sugar,  salt  and  crisco  and  let 
cool.  Soften  yeast  cake  in  two  tablespoons  lukewarm  water  and 
add  to  above  mixture.  Mix  flour  in  gradually  with  a  spoon. 
Turn  on  board  slightly  floured  and  knead  smooth.  Put  into  bowl 
and  let  rise  until  double,  then  knead,  cut  into  portions  and  shape. 
Let  rise  and  when  double  in  size  bake  in  moderate  oven  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Twelve  or  fourteen  rolls. 

SCONES 

1  quart  flour  Salt 

1/2  teaspoon  soda  Melted  butter 

1%  cups  sour  milk 

Sift  flour  with  salt  and  soda,  mix  with  sour  milk.  Roll  on 
floured  board  to  one-half  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  in  large  rounds 
and  quarter  these.  Bake  on  hot  buttered  griddle,  turning  fre- 
quently to  brown  both  sides  evenly.  Rub  top  with  melted  but- 
ter just  before  serving. 


116 


SQUASH  BISCUITS 

1/2  cup  scalded  milk  34  cake  yeast  (dissolved  in 

54  cup  butter  warm  water) 

54  cup  sugar  ]/2  cup  squash  (strained) 

1  teaspoon  salt  2^  cups  flour 

Mix  in  order  given  while  milk  is  warm  but  not  hot,  when 

light  mold  and  cut  into  biscuits.     Let    rise    again  and  bake  in 

moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

TEA  EOLLS 

1  cup  milk  1  magic  yeast  cake  (dissolved 

54  cup  sugar  in  34  cup  lukewarm  water) 

1  teaspoon  salt  3^  cups  flour 
34  cup  melted  butter 

2  eggs  Pinch  nutmeg 

Scald  milk,  when  lukewarm  add  two  cups  flour.  Beat  well 
and  add  dissolved  yeast.  Let  rise  and  then  add  butter,  sugar, 
salt,  nutmeg  and  well  beaten  eggs.  Lastly  stir  in  enough  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough. 

THKEE  IN  ONE  BISCUIT 

1  pint  milk  1  heaping  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cake  compressed  yeast  (dis- 
1  tablespoon  butter  solved  in  warm  water) 

1  egg  beaten  Flour 

Heat  milk,  add  butter,  sugar  and  salt.  When  milk  is  luke- 
warm add  egg,  yeast  and  flour  enough  to  make  good  biscuit 
dough.  Form  into  balls  as  large  as  a  walnut.  Press  three  of 
these  together.  Let  rise  two  or  three  hours  and  bake. 

AERATED  WHOLE  WHEAT  MUFFINS 

2  eggs  234  cups  whole  wheat  flour 
2  cups  milk  V?  cup  Graham  flour 

Y-2.  cup  cold  water 

Separate  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs,  place  yolks  in  bowl 
in  which  muffins  are  to  be  mixed,  beat,  add  liquid  and  beat 
again,  then  add  flour.  Beat  for  five  minutes  with  Dover  egg- 
beater.  Leave  in  refrigerator  or  in  cool  place  all  night.  In 
morning  beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  also  beat  mixture  again.  Fold 
together  and  bake  in  gem  pans.  The  success  of  these  muffins 
depends  upon  the  gem  pans  being  iron,  well  greased  and  sizzling 
hot  when  batter  is  poured  into  them.  This  makes  about  two 
dozen  muffins. 


BREADS  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS  117 

BARLEY  MUFFINS 

V/2  cups  white  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar  or  molass- 
1^>  cups  barley  flour  es 

3  rounded  teaspoons  baking  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 
powder  \l/2  cups  milk 

2  eggs  beaten  Salt 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  butter,  eggs  and  milk.  Whole 
wheat,  rye  or  Graham  flour  may  be  used  instead  of  barley  flour. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

BRAN  SQUARES 

2  cups  white  flour  1  level  tablespoon  sugar 

2  cups  bran  3  level  tablespoons  shortening 

5  level  teaspoons  baking          3  eggs 

powder  1  cup  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  shortening,  beat  eggs  light,  stir  in 
milk  and  add  to  flour,  etc. ;  roll  out,  rub  top  with  white  of  egg, 
cut  in  squares  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

BRAN  GEMS 

2  cups  bran  1  tablespoon  crisco 

1  cup  white  flour  1  egg 

YZ  cup  molasses  l/2  teaspoon  soda 

\Y^  cups  milk  y2  teaspoon  salt 

y2  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Sift  flour,  soda,  baking  powder  and  salt,  add    bran,    then 

milk,  molasses,  egg  and  melted  crisco.    Raisins  may  be  added  if 

desired. 

CORNMEAL  MUFFINS 

1  cup  cornmeal  2  eggs 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  level  teaspoons  baking  2  tablespoons  sugar 
powder  1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  beaten  eggs,  milk  and  melted 
butter.  Bake  in  muffin  irons  in  a  quick  oven. 


118  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

DATE  MUFFINS 

3  tablespoons  butter  \y2  cups  milk 

1/3  cup  sugar  3  cups  flour 

3  eggs  \l/2  cups  dates 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  milk,  flour, 

baking  powder  and  finely  chopped  dates.    Bake  in  muffin  irons  in 

a  quick  oven. 

DROP  PRUNE  MUFFINS 

1  cup  sour  milk  24  cup  bran 

1  cup  Graham  flour  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  cooked  prunes  (with-  1  teaspoon  salt 
out  juice)  1  teaspoon  soda 

Yz  cup  melted  butter  1  egg 

Mix  bran,  Graham  flour,  sugar  and  salt  together.  Pour  sour 
milk  into  a  bowl,  add  soda  and  the  soft  prunes  pitted,  beat  well. 
Add  the  dry  ingredients,  beat,  then  add  butter  and  unbeaten  egg. 
Stir  for  a  moment  and  drop  in  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  tin ;  they 
should  not  touch.  Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  steady  oven 
until  a  rich  brown. 

These  dropped  bran  muffins  may  be  made  without  the 
prunes  if  more  convenient.  They  are  improved  by  putting  a  lit- 
tle jelly  on  the  top  of  each  before  baking.  If  a  tin  sheet  is  made 
to  fit  one's  oven,  all  the  dropped  muffins  can  be  baked  at  once. 

EGG  MUFFINS 

\y2  cups  flour  1  egg  beaten 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder    1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
y2  teaspoon  salt 

Measure,  mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  egg,  milk  and 
shortening,  then  beat  with  a  spoon.  Fill  eight  muffin  pans  half 
full  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  All  level  measures. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS 

iy>.  cups  Graham  flour  \y2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  large  cup  milk  Salt 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  milk,  beaten  egg  and  melted  but- 
ter, bake. 


BREADS  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS  119 

HOOVER  MUFFINS 

1  cup  bran  1  egg 

1  cup  whole  wheat  flour          l/3  cup  New  Orleans  molasses 
1  cup  Graham  flour  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt  Buttermilk 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  beaten  egg  and  enough  buttermilk 
to  make  stiff  batter  that  will  drop  from  a  spoon.  Grease  muffin 
pans  well. 

NUT  MUFFINS 

\l/2.  cups  white  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  crisco 

3  tablespoons  baking  powder  ^4  cup  milk 

24  teaspoon  salt  54  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  in  which  they  are  given.  Bake 
in  small  gem  pans  in  quick  oven.  Serve  at  five-o'clock  teas  with 
orange  marmalade.  One  half  whole  wheat  flour  may  be  used. 

PLAIN  MUFFINS 

2  rounded  cups  flour  1  egg 

4  rounded  teaspoons  baking    3  rounded  tablespoons  sugar 
powder  Milk 

1  large  tablespoon  butter          Salt 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cream  sugar  and  but- 
ter and  stir  into  the  flour.  Beat  the  egg  in  measuring  cup  and 
fill  cup  with  milk  and  add.  If  necessary  add  more  milk  but  the 
batter  should  be  very  stiff.  Makes  twelve  muffins.  - 

POPOVERS 

1  cup  milk  1  egg 

1  cup  flour  Salt 

Sift  flour  three  times  before  measuring.  Mix  flour,  milk 
and  salt  until  smooth,  add  beaten  egg.  Put  in  well  greased  muf- 
fin tins  and  bake  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes. 

RICE  FLOUR  GEMS  NO.  1 

1  cup  cold  water  2  egg  whites  well  beaten 

1  cup  rice  flour  2  scant  teaspoons  baking 

l/i  cup  white  flour  powder 

Mix  baking  powder,  flour  and  salt.  Stir  this  into  the  cold 
water  and  mix  well,  then  add  whites  of  eggs.  Stir  lightly.  Have 
gem  pans  hot,  bake  till  nicely  browned  and  serve. 


120  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 


RICE  FLOUR  GEMS  NO.  2 

1  cup  rice  flour  1  egg 

l/2  cup  cornmeal  2  scant  teaspoons  baking 

1  cup  sweet  milk  or  water      powder 

Sift  dry  ingredients  into  milk,  stir  thoroughly,  then  add  well 
beaten  egg  and  bake. 

RICE  MUFFINS 

1  cup  cold  rice  1  tablespoon  butter  (melted) 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

2  eggs  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt  Flour  to  make  stiff  batter 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

Beat  together  rice,  eggs,  milk,  add  sugar,  salt  and  flour  in 
which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  lastly  butter.  Bake  in 
well  greased  muffin  tins  in  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 

RYE  CORNMEAL  MUFFINS 

\y2  cups  rye  flour  4  level  teaspoons  baking 

y2  cup  cornmeal  powder 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  Y^  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  shortening 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  and  melted  shortening,  beat, 
bake  in  well  greased  muffin  pans  about  one  half  hour. 

RYE  MUFFINS 

1  coffee  cup  rye  flour  ]/?  cup  warm  milk 

2  level  teaspoons  baking          1  tablespoon  butter 
powder  3^  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  sugar 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar,  to  this  add  melt- 
ed butter  and  warm  milk,  then  stir  in  without  beating  the  egg. 
If  dough  seems  too  stiff,  add  a  little  more  milk.  Fill  gem  pans 
half  full  and  bake  until  puffy  in  hot  oven.  Have  your  gem  tins 
heating  while  mixing  muffins. 

STONY  BROOK  POPOVERS 

\y2  cups  milk  3  eggs 

\l/2  cups  sifted  flour  Salt 

Mix  flour,  milk  and  salt  until  smooth.  Add  the  beaten  eggs. 
Pour  into  well  greased  muffin  tins.  Bake  twenty-five  or  thirty 
minutes  in  a  good  steady  oven. 


BREADS  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS  121 

SQUASH  MUFFINS 

2l/2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  shortening 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  squash  (strained) 
1]  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  mix  in  melted  shortening,  then  com- 
bine beaten  egg  and  squash  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  Will  make  two  dozen 
small  muffins. 

BREAD  CRUMB  PANCAKES 

IK  cups  dry  bread  crumbs     5  level  teaspoons  baking 

3  eggs  powder 

\l/2  cups  sifted  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

YZ  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  bread  crumbs  overnight  in  milk,  in  the  morning  add 
yolks  of  eggs,  flour  and  baking  powder  with  milk  to  make  mod- 
erately thin  batter.  Add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  fry 
on  hot  griddle. 

BREAD  CORNMEAL  PANCAKES 

1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  3  eggs 

1  cup  cornmeal  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  cup  whole  wheat  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

4  level  teaspoons  baking  4  cups  milk 
powder 

Soak  bread  crumbs  and  cornmeal  overnight  in  milk.  In 
morning  add  rest  of  dry  ingredients,  sifted,  and  eggs  beaten. 
Batter  should  be  moderately  thin. 


1^2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs      Y*  cake  compressed  yeast 
\l/2  cups  eastern  buckwheat     1  tablespoon  salt 
l/2  cup  white  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

3  cups  warm  milk  1  tablespoon  molasses 

1  cup  warm  water  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk  half  an  hour,  add  dry  ingredients, 
warm  water  and  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Let  rise 
all  night.  In  the  morning  add  molasses  and  soda  which  has 
been  dissolved  in  warm  water.  Batter  should  not  be  as  stiff  as 
for  plain  buckwheat  cakes.  Fry  slowly. 


122  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

CORNMEAL  PANCAKES 

2^2  cups  yellow  cornmeal  1  cup  white  flour 

1  tablespoon  sugar  6  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  salt  Milk 
3  eggs 

Soak  cornmeal  overnight  in  enough  milk  to  make  medium 
thick  batter.  In  the  morning  sift  flour  with  salt,  sugar  and  bak- 
ing powder,  add  to  cornmeal,  then  add  beaten  yolks,  milk  and 
beaten  whites.  The  batter  should  be  thin  enough  to  spread  well 
on  griddle. 

FLANNEL  CAKES 

2  cups  white  flour  1  egg 

1^2  teaspoons  soda  (level)      2l/2  cups  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  (level) 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Beat  egg,  mix  with  part  of  milk,  turn 
into  flour  and  mix  well,  adding  the  rest  of  milk.  Batter  should 
be  thin.  Fry  on  very  hot  griddle. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES 

2  cups  flour  1  quart  milk 

7  eggs  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

Add  to  the  flour  one  cup  milk,  beat  with  wire  egg-beater 
until  smooth,  add  eggs  unbeaten,  two  or  three  at  a  time,  then 
remainder  of  milk.  Pour  from  a  pitcher  and  allow  dough  to 
spread  on  grddle  until  size  of  a  breakfast  plate.  Turn,  spread 
with  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  fold,  so  cake  will  be  in  three 
folds,  while  still  on  the  griddle.  Place  on  platter  with  thin  knife. 
Sprinkle  again  with  sugar.  Unlike  other  cakes,  these  may  all 
be  fried  before  the  meal  begins.  A  little  lemon  juice  may  be 
added  at  the  table.  This  makes  two  dozen  large  pancakes.  The 
batter  is  very  thin. 


BREADS  AND  BREAKFAST  FOODS  123 

RAISED  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES 

2  cups  eastern  buckwheat  y2  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  tablespoons  bran  (dissolved  in  y*  cup    luke- 

1  tablespoon  sugar  warm  water 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  tablespoon  N.  O.  molasses 

2  cups  warm  milk  1  teaspoon  soda  (level) 
2  cups  warm  water 

At  night  mix  all  dry  ingredients  except  soda,  add  two- 
thirds  of  liquid  with  dissolved  yeast.  Allow  room  in  bowl  to  rise. 
Put  in  warm  place.  In  morning  add  remainder  of  liquid  and 
soda  mixed  with  molasses  and  one-fourth  cup  warm  water.  Bat- 
ter should  be  a  little  thinner  than  for  ordinary  pancakes.  Fry 
slowly.  Remaining  batter  may  be  used  as  leaven  for  more  dough. 
This  makes  about  two  dozen  cakes. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

CEREALS 


CEREALS 

The  directions  given  in  packages  of  cereals  do  not  allow 
enough  time  for  cooking  and  do  not  give  large  enough  propor- 
tion of  water. 

Cereals  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities  and  kept  in 
covered  glass  jars. 

CORNMEAL  MUSH 

1  quart  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  cornmeal 

Moisten  cornmeal  with  cold  water,  then  stir  into  salted  boil- 
ing water.  Wetting  the  cornmeal  with  cold  water  prevents  it 
from,  lumping.  Let  boil  a  half  hour  or  more,  then  place  in  fire- 
less  cooker  overnight  or  boil  an  hour  or  more. 

CREAM  OF  WHEAT  AND  OTHER  FINE  CEREALS. 

5  cups  water  3  level  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  cream  of  wheat 

Let  salted  water  boil  briskly,  stir  in  cereal,  being  careful 
that  it  does  not  lump.  If  this  occurs  beat  with  Dover  egg-beat- 
er. Cook  thirty  minutes.  Rolled  Oats,  Wheat  Flakes  and  Cream 
of  Barley  mush  are  prepared  in  the  same  way,  or  may  be  cooked 
in  fireless  cooked  with  or  without  the  heated  disk. 

FIRELESS  COOKER  CRACKED  WHEAT  MTJSH 

1  cup  cracked  wheat  3  level  teaspoons  salt 

5  cups  cold  water 

Prepare  at  night.  Put  ingredients  into  small  cooker  kettle, 
let  come  slowly  to  boiling  point  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  At  the 
same  time  have  iron  cooker  disk  heating  over  flame.  Have 
ready  the  large  cooker  kettle  partly  filled  with  boiling  water.  Af- 
ter covering  small  kettle,  put  it  into  large  one  and  allow  to  boil 
two  or  three  minutes,  then  place  on  hot  disk  in  cooker  and  cov- 
er immediately.  In  the  morning  reheat  mush  and  serve. 


CEREALS  125 

LARGE  HOMINY 

Wash  one  pint  of  dry  hominy,  cover  with  water,  soak  over- 
night and  in  the  morning  put  over  slow  fire.  As  fast  as  water 
is  absorbed  add  fresh  boiling  water.  Cook  about  five  hours. 
When  clone  hominy  should  have  absorbed  all  the  water,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

STEEL-CUT  OATS  MUSH 

1  cup  steel-cut  oats  3  level  teaspoons  salt 

5  cups  cold  water 

Cook  in  fireless  cooker  as  directed  for  cracked  wheat  mush, 
or  from  three  to  six  hours  on  top  of  stove,  stirring  and  adding 
hot  water  as  required. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

SANDWICHES 


CHEESE  AND  NUT  SANDWICHES 

1/2  cup  walnut  meats  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

YZ  cup  cheese  Celery  salt 

2  hard-boiled  eggs  Salt 

4  tablespoons  mayonnaise        Paprika 

Put  nuts,  cheese  and  eggs  through  nut  grinder,  add  season- 
ing, mayonnaise  and  lemon  juice,  spread  on  buttered  slices  of 
Graham  bread. 

CHEESE  AND  PINEAPPLE  SANDWICHES 

Mix  cheese  and  shredded  pineapple  thoroughly  and  spread 
between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

EGG  AND  OLIVE  SANDWICHES 

2  eggs  hard  boiled  4  tablespoons  mayonnaise 

1  dozen  ripe  olives  Butter 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice       Salt 
1  loaf  bread 

Put  eggs  through  fine  sieve.  Stone  and  chop  olives,  season 
with  salt,  lemon  juice,  mix  all  with  mayonnaise  and  spread  be- 
tween thin  slices  of  bread,  buttered. 

FRIED  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Cut  cheese  very  thin,  spread  between  thin  slices  of  stale 
bread,  moisten  with  milk  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Serve  hot. 
Makes  a  good  supper  dish. 

NASTURTIUM  SANDWICHES 

Mash  the  flowers  and  mix  with  mayonnaise.  The  seeds  and 
stems  may  also  be  used.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 


SANDWICHES  127 

PEOTCSE  SANDWICHES 

y*  can  Savory  Protose  Dash  of  paprika 

(1  pound  size)  Onion  salt 

3  tablespoons  mayonnaise        Celery  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt 

Few  drops  lemon  juice 

Mash  protose,  add  mayonnaise,  melted  butter  and  other 
ingredients  and  spread  on  buttered  slices  of  bread.  This  will 
make  about  two  dozen  sandwiches. 

RIPE  OLIVES  AND  PIMENTO  SANDWICHES 

Put  fresh  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  washed  and  thoroughly  dried, 
between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread.  Mix  chopped  olives  and 
pimentos  with  mayonnaise  and  spread  on  the  lettuce  leaves. 

RAISIN  AND  NTTT  SANDWICHES 

Between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread  spread  chopped  raisins 
and  nuts. 


CHAPTER  XX. 

BEVERAGES 


CARAMEL  COFFEE 

6  tablespoons  Caramel  6  cups  water 

Cereal  Coffee 

Place  cereal  in  perforated  aluminum  utensil  made  for  the 
purpose,  or  in  a  cheesecloth  bag;  cover  with  cold  water  and  let 
stand  all  night.  Boil  half  an  hour,  or  an  hour.  Serve  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE 

6  level  teaspoons  ground  */£  cup  hot  water 

sweetened  chocolate  5l/2  cups  milk 

3  level  teaspoons  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

Boil  chocolate  and  sugar  in  water  five  minutes  and  add  to 
milk  previously  heated  to  boiling  point  in  double-boiler.  Beat 
two  minutes  with  Dover  egg-beater.  Serve  with  whipped  cream 
if  desired. 

CHOCOLATE  EGG-NOG 

2  squares  Baker's  chocolate  4  drops  vanilla 

l/2  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Dash  of  cinnamon 
1  egg 

Melt  chocolate  in  water,  add  sugar,  boil  until  consistency  of 
cream,  add  flavoring  and  cool.  Beat  egg  well,  add  milk  and 
a  tablespoon  of  the  chocolate  sauce.  This  sauce  may  also  be 
used  in  malted  milk. 

COCOA 

3  level  teaspoons  cocoa  5  cups  milk 

3  level  teaspoons  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

1  cup  water 

Place  cocoa  and  sugar  in  saucepan,  pour  over  it  the  hot  wa- 
ter and  boil  ten  minutes.  Bring  milk  to  boil  in  double-boiler,  add 
cocoa,  beat  two  minutes  with  Dover  egg-beater.  This  prevents 
scum.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 


BEVERAGES  129 

JUNO  MATE 

Mate,  or  Paraguay  Tea,  consists  of  the  dried  leaves  of  an 
evergreen  shrub  or  small  tree  which  grows  in  Paraguay  and 
southern  Brazil.  It  appears  to  have  been  used  from  time  im- 
memorial by  the  Indians,  but  first  cultivated  by  the  Jesuits.  The 
names  Jesuit's  tea,  tea  of  the  Missions,  St.  Bartholomew's  tea, 
etc.,  have  been  applied  to  it.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  17th 
century  Mate  has  been  used  by  all  classes  in  Paraguay  and  is 
now  used  throughout  Brazil  and  neighboring  countries.  It  contains 
definitely  less  caffeine,  as  prepared  for  drinking,  than  tea  or 
coffee,  and  is  also  less  astringent,  making  it  a  more  desirable 
beverage.  It  is  usually  carried  by  the  Sanitarium  Health  Food 
Store,  1176  Market  Street,  San  Francisco. 

JUNO  MATE 

2  level  teaspons  Juno  Mate      6  cups  boiling  water 
Place  in  aluminum  tea  ball  or  in  cheesecloth  bag  made  for 
purpose.     Make  same  as  tea  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 
Do  not  allow  this  tea  to  stand  more  than  five  minutes  as  it  be- 
comes strong  very  quickly. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

1  pint  lemon  juice  1  pint  water 

1  pint  orange  juice  3  bananas  (sliced) 

]/2  pint  Dole's  pineapple         1  cup  strawberries  (quar- 

juice  tered) 

j/2  pint  shredded  pineapple      3  bottles  Shasta  Water 

with  juice  Ice 

1  quart  sugar 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  on  sugar,  boil  five  minutes, 
set  aside  to  cool.  Drain  juice  from  pineapple,  boil  five  minutes, 
pour  over  pineapple,  cool.  Strain  lemon  and  orange  juice,  place 
a  good-sized  piece  of  ice  in  punch  bowl,  add  Shasta  Water,  then 
fruit  and  syrup.  Loganberry  juice  may  be  used  to  color  punch. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

PRESERVING  and  CANNING 


APPLE  JELLY 

Wash  and  wipe  apples,  remove  stems,  put  into  preserving 
kettle,  nearly  over  with  cold  water,  cook  very  slowly  until  ap- 
ples are  tender.  Pour  into  jelly  bag  and  drain  thoroughly  but 
do  not  squeeze.  Measure  juice,  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  ev- 
ery pint  of  juice.  Boil  juice  twenty  minutes,  add  sugar  which 
has  been  heated  .on  a  platter  in  the  oven.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Boil  five  minutes  or  until  it  jellies.  A  rose  geranium 
leaf  cooked  with  the  apples  gives  a  pleasant  flavor. 

CARROT  MARMALADE 

1^2  pounds  carrots  2  pounds  granulated  sugar 

2  lemons 

Put  carrots  through  fine  food  chopper,  cook  until  tender.  Cut 
lemons  in  very  fine  pieces,  rind  and  all,  remove  seeds.  Cook  fif- 
teen minutes,  then  put  carrots,  lemons  and  sugar  into  double- 
boiler  and  boil  until  thick,  only  a  few  minutes  required.  Put 
away  as  any  other  marmalade. 

CRANBERRY  JAM 

1  quart  cranberries  y2  pint  water 

1  pint  sugar 

Prepare  cranberries  and  boil  until  skins  break,  add  sugar, 
boil  ten  minutes  more,  put  through  coarse  strainer,  pour  into 
moulds. 

CRANBERRY  AND  RAISIN  MARMALADE 

1  quart  cranberries  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  cups  seeded  raisins  1  cup  water 

Put  canberries  and  water  on  in  a  saucepan,  cover,  bring  to 
boil  quickly.  As  soon  as  they  begin  to  cook  mash  through  col- 
ander, add  sugar,  then  raisins,  which  have  been  washed,  dried 
and  put  through  a  food  chopper,  return  to  fire  and  boil  slowly 
for  thirty  minutes  or  until  thick  like  sauce. 


PRESERVING  AND  CANNING  131 

HOME  CANNED  TOMATO  PUREE 

In  tomato  time  use  a  large  proportion  of  your  extra  fruit  as 
follows:  Cut  up  without  peeling  a  large  kettleful  of  tomatoes. 
Add: 

1  quart  water  1  bay  leaf 

2  minced  onions  2  stalks  celery 
1  carrot  2  or  3  cloves 

1  turnip  Salt  and  pepper 

1  green  pepper  minced  Parsley 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Simmer  for  one  hour.  Rub  this  mixture  through  a  colander, 
return  to  kettle  and  add  two  tablespoons  sugar,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Boil  and  can  for  winter  use,  for  soups,  sauce,  etc. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

5  navel  oranges  Sugar 

3  lemons  Water 

Slice  oranges  and  one  lemon  and  cut  into  squares.  To  each 
pound  of  fruit  add  two  pints  of  water.  Let  stand  twenty-four 
hours.  Then  place  over  fire,  boil  hard  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Set  aside  twenty-four  hours.  Weigh  and  to  each  pound  add  one 
and  a  half  pounds  sugar  and  juice  of  two  lemons.  Boil  hard  un- 
til clear  and  jellylike. 

PEACHES,  CANNED 

4  pounds  peaches  1  pint  water 

2  pounds  sugar 

Pare  peaches  and  cook  in  sugar  and  water,  either  whole  or 
in  halves,  until  tender.  Arrange  in  jars,  fill  with  the  syrup  and 
seal. 

PICKLED  PEACHES 

7  pounds  peeled  peaches          1  pint  vinegar 

3  pounds  sugar  Clove  stuck  in  each  peach 
Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  vinegar  and  when  boiling  pour 

over  the  peeled  peaches.  Let  stand  overnight.  Then  put  all  on 
stove  and  cook  until  peaches  are  tender.  Remove  peaches  and 
boil  syrup  down  to  just  enough  to  cover  peaches.  Seal. 


132  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 


PINEAPPLE  APRICOT  CONSERVE 

10  pounds  ripe  apricots  ll/2  pounds  sugar  (^  to  1 

2  cans    grated  pineapple  pound,  fruit) 

4  apricot  pits  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Peel  apricots,  boil  one  hour,  add  pineapple.  Weigh,  subtract- 
ing weight  of  kettle,  add  three-quarter  pound  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  fruit,  boil  three  or  four  hours,  or  until  as  thick  as  de- 
sired, stirring  often  to  prevent  burning.  One-half  hour  before 
done  add  apricot  pits,  peeled  and  chopped.  This  makes  about  one 
pint,  or  two  glasses  of  conserve  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 

PINEAPPLE  HONEY 

5  pints  sugar  1  large  or  2  small  pineapples 
1  qaurt  water 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  until  it  makes  a  thick  syrup,  add 
grated  pineapple  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

QUINCE  JELLY 

A  delicious  jelly  is  made  by  using  equal  quantities  of  quince 
and  apple,  and  following  directions  for  Apple  Jelly. 

EELISH 

12  sweet  green  peppers 
12  sweet  red  peppers 

6  small  onions 

Grind  peppers  and  onions,  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let 
stand  fifteen  minutes,  drain,  cover  with  cider  vinegar  and  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Bottle  while  hot  and  seal. 

CANNED  STRING  BEANS 

Break  beans  in  small  pieces  and  blanch  in  boiling  water  for 
ten  minutes.  Pack  in  hot  Economy  jars,  fill  with  warm  water, 
adding  one  teaspoon  of  salt  to  each  jar.  Rinse  lid,  adjust  clamp, 
set  on  rack  in  boiler  and  boil  forty-five  minutes.  Set  aside  for 
forty-eight  hours.  Boil  again  for  one-half  hour.  Set  aside  to 
cool.  Remove  clamps.  Put  away  for  winter  use. 

CANNED  ASPARAGUS 

Wash  and  scrape  fresh  asparagus.  Pack  firmly  in  jars. 
Cover  with  cold  water  adding  one  teaspoon  of  salt  to  each  jar. 
Dip  lid  in  water,  adjust  clamp.  Set  on  rack  in  boiler  and  boil 
for  two  hours.  Set  aside  to  cool,  then  remove  clamps. 


CHAPTER  XXII. 

HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 


Left-over  bread,  toast  or  biscuits  should  be  thoroughly 
dried  in  warm  oven,  put  through  grinder  and  placed  in  glass 
jars.  No  bread  need  be  wasted,  as  there  are  many  uses  for  it 
in  puddings,  nut  loaves,  pancakes,  gems,  etc.  A  small  top  oven 
used  on  a  gas  range  is  a  good  receptacle  for  the  pan  of  dry 
bread  until  the  collection  is  large  enough  to  grind  and  put  away. 

Water  in  which  rice,  potatoes  and  many  other  vegetables 
have  been  cooked  should  be  saved  for  soups.  It  is  surprising 
what  a  variety  of  nutritious  soups  may  be  made  by  using 
thought  and  originality  in  combining  left-overs. 

When  food  is  scorched  in  cooking  take  the  cover  off  and 
place  the  kettle  immediately  in  a  pan  of  cold  water.  After  a  few 
moments,  put  the  food  into  a  clean  kettle  and  finish  cooking. 
You  will  find  that  the  scorched  taste  has  been  removed. 

Should  boiled  custard  "whey"  in  cooking,  beat  rapidly  with 
a  Dover  egg-beater  just  before  taking  from  the  stove.  This  will 
make  it  smooth  again,  but  somewhat  thinner. 

To  prevent  the  ''scum"  from  rising  on  cocoa  or  chocolate, 
beat  with  Dover  egg-beater  just  before  taking  it  from  the  fire. 

The  right  proportion  of  soda  to  use  with  sour  milk  is  one 
level  teaspoonful  to  two  cups  of  milk.  If  molasses  is  used,  more 
soda  is  required. 

When  cooking  onions,  cabbage  or  fish,  set  a  tin  cup  of  vine- 
gar on  the  stove  and  keep  it  boiling.  This  takes  away  all  odors. 

To  prevent  mush  from  boiling  over,  grease  the  edge  of  the 
kettle  on  the  inside,  down  about  two  inches. 

It  is  well  to  keep  on  hand  in  summer  a  good  supply  of  pa- 
per napkins  to  use  when  fruit  is  served.  This  saves  the  linen 
napkins  from  becoming  stained. 


134  MODERN  MEATLESS  COOK  BOOK 

A  small  steei  knitting  needle  kept  in  the  pantry  drawer  is 
much  more  sanitary  for  trying  cakes,  etc.,  than  the  old-fashioned 
broom  straw.  It  is  also  better  than  a  fork  for  trying  vegetables, 
as  it  does  not  break  them  into  pieces. 

Empty  paste  jars  which  have  the  well  for  the  brush  in  the 
center  make  excellent  dishes  to  place  inside  vases  or  jars,  to  hold 
flowers  in  place. 

It  is  more  convenient  to  use  a  pitcher  in  pouring  pancake 
batter  on  a  griddle  than  to  dip  it  with  a  spoon. 

In  making  sandwiches,  spread  soft  butter  on  the  end  of  the 
loaf  before  slicing. 

Formula  for  cranberry  jam:  One-half  as  much  sugar  a> 
cranberries,  one-half  as  much  water  as  sugar. 

Parsley  can  be  kept  if  it  is  chopped  very  fine  and  dried.  It 
can  then  be  used  just  as  fresh  parsley.  Celery  tops  when  dried 
can  be  kept  and  used  as  flavoring. 

Green  peas  retain  their  color  when  cooked  in  boiling  salted 
water. 

Potatoes  may  be  cooked  without  waste  if  started  in  boiling 
salted  water.  Bring  to  a  boil  quickly,  then  allow  to  boil  very 
slowly  until  done.  Do  not  allow  them  to  stop  boiling. 

String  beans  shoud  be  started  in  boiling  water.  Pour  off 
the  first  water  after  ten  minutes  and  start  again. 

To  remove  skins  from  tomatoes,  stick  a  fork  into  them,  hold 
over  gas  flame,  when  skin  breaks  remove  with  knife. 

To  clear  coffee,  put  one  pound  of  coffee  into  a  flat  pan, 
break  into  it  one  egg.  Stir  with  fork  until  well  mixed,  let  stand 
one  hour,  put  into  can,  ready  for  use. 

To  remove  grass  stains,  wash  in  alcohol. 

To  remove  white  spots  from  furniture,  dip  cloth  in  hot  wa- 
ter, put  over  spot,  quickly  remove  and  rub  with  dry  cloth.  Re- 
peat if  necessary. 

Milk  glasses  should  be  rinsed  in  cold  water  before  washing. 
To  remove  fruit  stains,  pour  boiling  water  over  spot. 

Borax  is  very  good  to  sprinkle  over  fish  to  keep  it  fresh. 
Wash,  thoroughly  to  remove  borax  before  preparing. 

When  cutting  new  bread  or  cake  heat  knife  quite  hot. 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS  135 

Use  bath  brick  and  vinegar  to  clean  porcelain  tub.  Polish 
with  cloth  dipped  in  coal  oil. 

Use  lemon  or  orange  peel  for  flavoring  cakes  and  custards. 
Do  not  grate  the  white  part  as  it  is  bitter. 

Stewed  canned  corn  or  tomatoes  are  improved  by  adding  a 
pinch  of  soda.  It  sweetens  them. 

Use  a  large  cork  for  scouring  knives  with  scouring  brick. 
An  ordinary  Mason  jar  cover  makes  an  excellent  pot  scraper. 

A  little  flour  spread  over  the  tops  of  cakes  before  they  are 
iced  will  prevent  the  icing  from  running  oft  the  cakes. 

A  little  flour  sprinkled  in  the  bottom  of  a  pie  tin  will  prevent 
a  berry  pie  from  running  over. 

Wring  chamois  out  of  soapy  water  without  rinsing.  When 
it  dries  it  will  be  soft  and  serviceable  instead  of  stiff. 

Half  a  lemon  dipped  in  salt  will  do  all  the  work  of  oxalic 
c.cid  in  cleaning  copper  boilers,  brass  tea-kettles,  and  other  such 
utensils. 

Coal  oil  will  soften  boots  and  shoes  that  have  been  hardened 
by  water. 

Keep  an  oyster  shell  in  your  tea-kettle  and  it  will  prevent 
the  formation  of  a  crust  on  the  inside  of  it  by  attracing  the  stony 
particles  to  itself. 

When  peeling  onions  hold  them  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  dur- 
ing the  process.  This  saves  tears. 

To  revive  the  luster  of  morocco,  or  any  other  leather,  apply 
the  white  of  egg  with  a  sponge. 

Use  a  little  ammonia  in  r"ish water  when  washing  glassware. 
It  will  make  it  sparkle  like  cut  glass. 

Wet  scorch  stains  in  soapsuds  and  place  in  the  sun.  Wet 
iron  rust  with  lemon  juice  and  salt  and  place  in  the  sun.  Fresh 
paint  on  clothing  can  be  taken  off  with  turpentine. 

To  keep  a  cut  lemon  fresh,  place  unused  portion  in  a  small 
cup  of  water,  not  covering  the  pulp. 


INDEX 


BEVERAGES 

Carmel    Coffee    128      Cocoa     128 

Chocolate    128      Juno    Mate    129 

Chocolate    Egg-Nog    128      Fruit    Punch    129 

BREADS  AND    BREAKFAST   FOODS 


Biscuit,    Baking    Powder    113 

Cotton    Ball    114 

English    Tea     114 

Graham     114 

Maple    115 

Olive    Oil     115 

Scones    115 

Squash    116 

Three   in   One    116 

Bread,   Boston   Brown   No.    1    106 

Boston   Brown   No.  2    107 

"        Boston  Brown  No.  3  107 

Bran    107 

Brown    107 

"       Coffee    107 

Corn    (Steamed)     108 

Corn    Meal    Loaf    108 

Corn  Meal   Mush   Bread    ..  108 

Corn    Pone    108 

Graham    No.    1    109 

Graham    No.    2    109 

Graham    No.    3    109 

Graham    No.   4    109 

Graham,    Raised    109 

Nut    No.    1     110 

Nut    No.    2    110 

Nut    No.    3    Ill 

Nut    Brown     Ill 

Oatmeal    No.    1    Ill 

Oatmeal    No.   2    112 

fRoman    Meal     112 

Rye     112 

Unleavened    112 

Virginia    Spoon     112 


White    113 

Gems,   Bran    117 

Bran    Squares    117 

"      Rice  Flour   No.    1    119 

"      Rice  Flour  No.  2   120 

Johnny    Cake     110 

Popovers    119 

Stony   Brook    120 

Muffins,   Plain    119 

Aerated   Whole   Wheat    ..116 

Barley     117 

Cornmeal     1 17 

Date    118 

Egg   118 

Graham    118 

Hoover     119 

Nut    119 

Rice    120 

Rye    120 

Rye    Cornmeal    120 

Squash    121 

Pancakes,  Bread  Cornmeal   121 

Bread    Crumb    121 

Bread    Buckwheat    121 

Cornmeal 122 

Flannel     122 

French    122 

Raised    Buckwheat    123 

Rolls   115 

"     Cornmeal     113 

"     Delicious     114 

"     Tea    116 

Scones    115 

Yeast,  Ever  Ready   106 


CAKES  AND   GINGER   BREAD 


Cake,  Angel   92 

Apple    Sauce    92 

Almond     92 

Bishop    93 

Black     93 

Chocolate   Glace    93 

Chocolate  Loaf   93 

'       Cocoa    94 

Cocoa   Tea    94 

'       Coffee     94 

'       Cream    Sponge    94 


Cup  No.  1    95 

Cup  No.  2  95 

Date  No.  1   95 

Date  No.  2  95 

Dolly   Varden    96 

German    Apple    96 

Jam     97 

Layer    97 

Minute    98 

Mocha     98 

Molasses    98 


INDEX   (Continued) 


Nut  No.  1  99 

Nut  No.  2  99 

Orange  Layer    99 

Potato    99 

Prize  Loaf    100 

Prune  No.  1   100 

Prune   No.  2    100 

Quick   Tea    101 


"      Snow    101 

"      Swiss    101 

"      White     101 

"      White   Layer    101 

Ginger   Bread    96 

"    Soft    97 

"  Hot    .  97 


CEREALS 


Cereals    124 

Cream  Wheat  and  other  fine  Cereals  124 
Hominy,    large    125 


Mush,    Cprnmeal    124 

"       Fireless  Cooker  Cracked 

Wheat     124 

Steel-Cut    Oats    .  .  125 


COOKIES,    DOUGHNUTS   AND     WAFERS 


Bars,   Fruit  and   Nut    89 

Cheese    Balls    89 

"      Straws    89 

"      Wafers    89 

Cookies,  Drop    83 

Cookies,  Fruit  No.   1    S3 

Fruit  No.  2  83 

Ginger    84 

Graham    84 

Honey    Drop    84 

"          Oatmeal  84 


Rolled  Oats  No.  1 
Rolled  Oats  No.  2 
Rolled  Oats  No.  3 
Rolled  Oats  No.  4 

Sour    Cream    

Sugar 


..  85 

..  85 

..  85 

..  86 

..  86 

..  87 

Walnut  86 


Cream   Puffs    89 

Crumbettes     89 

Doughnuts,  Raised  No.  1   87 

No.  2   87 

No.  3   88 

No.  4   88 

Nut   No.  5    88 

Hermits    90 

Kisses     90 

No.  2   90 

Macaroons     90 

Marguerites    91 

Rvocks     91 

Wafers,    Cheese    88 

Panoche     85 

Peanut    91 

Walnut  91 


FILLINGS   AND   FROSTINGS 


Filling,    Banana    102 

Black  Cake    102 

Chocolate    103 

Cocoa    103 

Cream  No.   1    103 

Cream   No.   2    103 

Cream   No.  3    103 

Lemon     104 

Marshmallow  Cream    104 

Mocha  No.   1    104 

Mocha   No.   1    .  .104 


Nut    105 

Orange    105 

Frosting,   Brown  Sugar  No.   1    102 

Brown  Sugar  No.  2  102 

Gilt  Edge    103 

Icing,   Boiled    102 

Uncooked   No.    1    105 

Uncooked   No.   2    105 

White    105 

Mapleine   104 


FISH 


Clam   Chowder    9 

Codfish    Balls    9 

Crab,   Creamed    9 


Fish,  Creamed  10 

"      and    Hominy    10 

Finnan   Haddie    .  10 


INDEX   (Continued) 


Kedgeree  10 

Olivettes  11 

Oysters  and  Macaroni  11 

Scalloped  12 

"  and  Corn,  Scalloped  13 

Salmon,  Baked  9 

"          Cutlets     11 


Loaf 11 

and   Spaghetti,   Scalloped..  12 

Tomato   Aspic    12 

Sole,    Fried    10 

Tuna  Fish  Cutlets   13 

"     Fish   Cakes    13 

"    -Loaf    ,  13 


GRAVIES   AND   SAUCES 

Gravy,  Brown    40  "        Tartar    41 


Brown    Flour    40 

Tomato    41 

Sauce,    Egg    40 

"        Mushroom    .    40 


Tomato   41 

White   No.   1    41 

White  No.  2   .  41 


HOUSEHOLD   HINTS 


133-134-135 


MEAT    SUBSTITUTES   AND    ENTREES 


Apple    Fritters    22 

Artichokes,    Fried    24 

Baked  Beans   (Vegetarian  Style)    . .  14 

Omelet     21 

Tomato  and  Eggplant    37 

Tomatoes  and  Corn    37 

H  ominy    24 

"       Beans,  Mexican  15 

Banana   Fritters  No.  1    23 

No.   2    23 

Beans,  Baked  (Vegetarian  Style)   ..  14 

Patties    14 

Roast    15 

Kidney,   with  Apple   Fritters  15 

Lima,    Roast    15 

Mexican    Baked    15 

Lima,    Quickly   Cooked    16 

"      as  Filling  for  Tomatoes 36 

Brosia  Pease  Meal  Patties  16 

Corn,   and   Baked   Tomatoes    37 

Canned,    Croquettes     19 

"      Loaf  No.   1   19 

"      Loaf  No.  2  19 

Tamale    20 

Left-over,  Loaf   20 

Cheese   Cups    17 

Puff    17 

and   Rice    18 

Rolls     18 

'Souffle     16 

Toast    17 

Scalloped  No.   1    17 

Scalloped  No.  2   17 

Chili  la  Reinas  .  18 


Croquettes,  Canned  Corn    19 

Macaroni     26 

Rice     34 

Sweet    Potato    36 

Walnut     39 

Dumplings,  Egg  with  Peas  (Italian)  30 

with  Vegetable  Stew    ..  38 

Eggs,  Creamed  Poached    20 

Cutlets  21 

Omlet   with    Peas    20 

Patties     21 

Puffs     21 

Peas  with,  Dumplings 

(Italian)    30 

"       with  Green   Summer  Equash  24 

Eggplant  and  Tomato,   Baked    37 

Enchiladas    (A  Mexican  Dish)    ...  22 

English    Scrapple    22 

Fritters,   Apple    22 

Banana  No.  1    23 

Banana  No.  2   23 

with   Protose  Stew    32 

"  Apple  with  Kidnev  Beans  15 

Rice    23 

Strawberry     23 

Hominy,    Baked    24 

Loaf   No.    1    24 

Loaf   No.   2    25 

Souffle    25 

Hugolini    25 

Italian   Rice    33 

Lentil   Curry    25 

"      with    Noodles    26 


INDEX   (Continued) 


Loaf,  Corn  No.  1   19 

Corn  No.  2  19 

'      Hominy  No.  1   24 

Hominy  No.  2  24 

Left-Over   Corn    22 

'      Nut  No.   1    29 

'      Nut  No.  2  29 

'      Peanut    30 

Potato  and  Nut    31 

"      Rice   Potato   33 

Tamale    36 

Macaroni    Croquettes    26 

Mold    27 

Sauce   Soubise    27 

with  Mushroom   Sauce..  27 

Squares     28 

Scalloped  with   Onions..  26 

as   Filling  for  Tomatoes  36 

Variations    in     26 

Mexican    Rice    34 

Monkey    28 

Noodles,   Fried    28 

Homemade     28 

with    Lentils     26 

Nut  and  Protose  Sausages   29 

"    Cutlets    29 

"    Loaf  No.  1   29 

"    Loaf  No.  2  29 

"    Loaf  and   Potato    31 

Omelet,  Egg  with  Peas 20 

Tomato    21 

Onions,   Scalloped  with   Macaroni..  26 

Souffle    26 

Patties,  Bean   14 

"        Brosia  Pease  Meal  16 

"       Egg  21 

Rice    34 

Souffle   26 

Pancakes,   Potato    31 

Peanut    Loaf    30 

"        Toast  with  Brown  Gravy..  30 

Peas,   Brosia    Pease   Meal   Patties..  16 

Black-eyed,    Dried    20 

with  Egg  Dumplings 

(Italian)     30 

with   Egg  Omelet    20 

Green,   Timbales    24 

Peppers,   Stuffed    (Hoover  Style)..  35 

Potato  and   Nut   Loaf    '. 31 

Pancakes     31 

Rice    Loaf    33 

Sweet,    Croquettes    36 


Protose 


Hamburg  Style   . . . 

Italian    Style    

and  Mushrooms    . . 

and   Rice    

Roast    

and  Nut  Sausages 

Steak     

Stew   with   Fritters 


Rice  Cakes    

'    and  Cheese   

1     Croquettes     

Fritters     

"     Italian     

Mexican     

Patties    

Potato  Loaf   

'    and  Protose    

Savory    

with  Tomatoes,  Scalloped   

"     with   Vegetable   Stew    

Roast  Beans   

"      Lima  Bean    

Protose     

"      Walnut     

Sauce  for  Banana  Fritters   No.   1 . . 

Enchilada     

Mushroom,    with    Macaroni. 

Tomato    

Soubise  with  Macaroni    .... 

Scalloped  Cheese  No.  1    

Cheese  No.  2  

Onions  with  Macaroni... 
Rice  with  Tomatoes   .... 

Souffle,    Cheese    

Hominy    

Onion     

Spaghetti    with    Tomato    

Spinach   with   Toast    

Squash,  Green    Summer,  with   Eggs 

Summer,   Stuffed    

Steak,    Protose    

Walnut   

Stew,   Protose   with   Fritters    

Vegetagle   with   Dumplings.. 

Vegetable  with  Rice 

Tamale,    Corn    . 


Loaf  

Timbales.  Green  Pea  

Toast,  Cheese  

Peanut  with  Brown  Gravy.. 

with   Spinach    


31 
32 
32 
33 
33 
32 
29 
32 
32 
34 
18 
34 
23 
33 
34 
34 
33 
33 
34 
34 
38 
15 
15 
32 
39 
23 
22 
27 
19 
27 
17 
17 
26 
34 
16 
25 
26 
35 
35 
24 
35 
32 
39 
32 
38 
38 
20 
36 
24 
17 
30 
35 


INDEX   (Continued) 


Tomato,  Baked  and  Eggplant 37 

Baked  and  Corn  37 

New  berg  37 

Omelet  21 

Sauce  19 

with  Scalloped  Rice  34 

with  Spaghetti  35 

Stuffed  with  Beans  36 

Stuffed  with  Macaroni  . .  36 

Tortillas  (For  Enchiladas)    22 


Turkish    Pilaf    37 

Variations  in  Macaroni    26 

in   Shredded  Wheat 

Biscuit    37 

Vegetable  Stew  with  Dumplings    . .  38 

with    Rice    38 

Walnut   Croquettes    39 

Roast   39 

Steak    .  39 


MISCELLANEOUS   DESSERTS 


Apple  Crisp    76 

"      Baked  No.   1    76 

Baked   No.  2   76 

and  Quince  Sauce   76 

Bananas,   Baked    77 

Lemon    79 

Brown   Betty   77 

Charlotte   Russe    78 

Coffee    Italian   Cream    78 

Custard,  Baked  Cup   77 

Caramel   77 

for  Left-over  Cake  Dessert  79 

Orange    80 

Delight   Dessert    78 

Fruit  Salad  as  Dessert  .  79 


Ice  Cream,   Peach    81 

Left-Over  Cake   Dessert    79 

Lemon   Bananas    79 

Lemon  Cream    79 

Marmalade    Meringue    80 

Minute    Tapioca    80 

Peach  Cups    80 

"      Melba     81 

Pears,  Baked   77 

Pineapple   Fluff    81 

Flip    81 

Tapioca    81 

Strawberry   Shortcake    82 

Dessert    .              82 


PASTRY 


Pastry  Dough    66 

"        Cases    .  66 


Pie  Crust   No.   1    66 

"    No.  2   .  66 


PIES 


Mincemeat,    Vegetarian    69 

Pie,  Apple  69 

1  Chocolate  67 

'  Crustless  Custard  67 

:  Custard    68 

'  Eggless    Pumpkin    68 

'  Lemon  No.  1  .  68 


Lemon  No.  2  68 

Lemon  No.  3   69 

Lemon  No.  4  69 

Mince   Vegetarian    69 

Pineapple  70 

Rhubarb 70 

Squash  or  Pumpkin  70 


PRESERVING    AND   CANNING 


Asparagus,  Canned    132 

Tarn,    Cranberry    150 

Jelly,   Apple    130 

Jelly,  Apple    130 

'    Quince    132 

Marmalade,   Carrot    130 

Cranberry   and   Raisin  130 

Orange  131 


Peaches,    Canned    131 

Pickled     131 

Pineapple   Apricot   Conserve    132 

Honey    132 

Puree,  Home  Canned  Tomato    131 

Relish   132 

String  Beans,  Canned    132 


INDEX   (Continued) 

PUDDINGS 

Pudding,  Apple  Tapioca    56  Fruit  No.  1  59 

Apricot    No.    1    56  Fruit   No.  2    59 

Apricot    No.   2    56  Ginger    59 

"          Black  56  "          Graham    .  60 


Blackberry  Dumpling    57 

Bread    57 

Carrot     57 

Chocolate  No.  1   57 

Chocolate  No.  2  58 

Cocoanut    .  58 


Ice  Box    60 

Instant    Tapioca    60 

Lemon    61 

Old  Fashioned   Rice    61 

Orange     61 

Snow  62 


Cottage    58                       Sponge    63 

English    Plum    58                       Spoonful    62 

Farewell     59      Sootlach    (A  Turkish  Dish)    62 

PUDDING  SAUCES 

Sauce,  Black  Pudding   64           "      Hard    65 

'      Caramel  Pudding   64           "      Plum    Pudding    64 

Cocoanut    Pudding    58                   Lemon    65 

'      Custard    64           "      Orange    65 

Egg   64           "      Silver    65 

Golden    65           "      Strawberry    65 

'      Graham    Pudding    60           "      Vanilla    65 

PRUNES 

Just  a  Word  about  Prunes  71  "  Pudding  No.  2  73 

Baby's  Evening  Meal 71  "  Pudding  No.  3  73 

Baked  Prune  Dumplings  71  "  Souffle  74 

"  Prunes  72  Setwed  Prunes  No.  1  74 

Eden  Vale  Pruen  Whip  72  "  Prunes  No.  2  74 

Prune  Bread  72  Steamed  Prunes  74 

"      Layer   Cake    73                       Prunes    75 

"      Pudding  No.   1    73 

SALADS 

Salad,  Alligator  Pear  48           "      Fruit    50 

"      Apple  No.  1   48           "      Heart  of  Lettuce   50 


Apple  No.  2  48 

Carrot     49 

Celery  Root   49 

Corn    49 

Cottage  Cheese   49 

Combination    Suggestions    . .  49 


Onion    50 

Pineapple  No.  1    51 

Pineapple  No.  2   51 

Pineapple  No.  3   51 

Potato     51 

Stuffed  Egg  51 


"      Cucumber    50                  Tomato    52 

SALAD    DRESSINGS 

Mayonnaise  Dressing    54                                    French  54 

Salad  Dressing,   Boiled    53                                     Fruit    54 

Cooked    53                                     for   Cabbage    54 

'Cream    53      Sour   Cream   Dressing    55 

"          "            Cream  Slaw 54 


INDEX   (Continued) 


SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches,  Cheese  and  Nut  126  " 

Cheese  and  Pineapple..   126 

Egg  and  Olive    126  " 

Fried  Cheese    126 

Nasturtium    .  .126 


Protose    127 

Raisin  and  Nut  127 

Ripe  Olives  and 

Pimento  .  .127 


SOUPS 


Bread   Sticks    2 

Brosia  Meals   1 

Croutons  for  Soup    5 

Dumplings    for   Soup    5 

Puree  of  Lima  Beans    7 

Soup,  Asparagus   Cream   2 

Barley    2 

Barley    Cream    2 

Bean     3 

Brown  Bean    3 

Celery    4 

Cream    of   Celery    4 

Cream  of  Corn  No.  1    4 

Cream  of  Corn  No.  2  4 

Cream  of  Corn  No.  3  5 

Cream  Potato  7 

Cream   Tomato    .  5 


Green    Pea    

Lentil  Brosia  Meal  No.   1 . 

Lentil  Brosia  Meal  No.  2. 

Lima  Bean  

Mock    Turtle    

Oatmeal    

Pea   Brosia  Meal    

Potato    

Puree  of  Split  Pea   

Soubise    

Tomato  Celery  No.   1    

Tomato  Celery  No.  2 

"Vegetable    • 

"     White  Bean  

Vegetarian   Soup  Stock    

Vegex  


VEGETABLES 


Apples,  Scalloped   46 

Beans,    String,    Spanish    47 

Cabbage,    Scalloped    47 

Carrots,  Flemish  45 

Supreme     43 

Celery  Root,  Mashed   44 

"        "        Creamed    44 

Corn  on  Cob  No.  1   44 

'    on  Cob  No.  2  44 

(    on  Cob  No.  3   44 

'    on  Cob  No.  4  44 

'    Boiled   47 

Stewed     47 

Harvard   Beets    45 

Onions,   Creamed    45 


Potatoes,  Brown  Creamed   43 

Creamed    45 

Sweet,  Candied   43 

Sweet  and  Apples,  South- 
ern Style  47 

Rice  46 

"    Boiled,    Buttered    43 

"    Potato   Cake    46 

"     Potato   Pie    46 

Squash,  Hubbard  Baked  No.  1   ....  42 

Hubbard  Baked  No.  2  ....  42 

"        Summer  Baked   42 

"        Summer  Baked  witli 

Pimento   42 

"        Summer   Fried    42 


LIST  OF  MANUFACTURERS  OF  VEGETARIAN  FOOD  PRODUCTS 
AND  STORES  WHERE  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  MAY  BE  FOUND. 


Battle  Creek,  Mich Protose,  etc. 

Kellogg  Food  Co. 

Boulder,    Colo Nut    Products 

Colorado  Sanitarium  Food  Co. 

Chicago,   111 Brosia   Meals 

Calumet  Tea  &  Coffee  Co.,  409-411  Huron  St. 

Chicago,   111 Grains,   etc. 

Bernhalter  Health  Food  Co.,  423  N.  Clark  St. 

Des  Moines,  la Nut  Products 

Iowa  Sanitarium  Food  Co.,  1319  Des  Moines  St. 

Galveston,  Texas    Natural  Brown   Rice 

Seaboard  Rice  Mfg.  Co. 

Katy,  Texas    Natural   Brown   Rice 

J.  E.  Cabaniss. 

Kansas  City,  Mo Nut  Foods,  Oils,  Honey 

C.  F.  Schobert,  1109  Troost  Ave. 

Los  Angeles,  Cal Figs,  Dried  Fruits,  Nuts 

Edw.  W.  Buehl  &  Co.,  1909  West  21st  St. 

Los  Angeles,  Cal Dried  Fruits,  Grains,  Nut  Products 

Otto  Carque,  1605  Magnolia  Ave. 

Madison,  Tenn Nutfoda 

Nashville  Food  Factory. 

Melrose,  Mass Nut  Products,  etc. 

Imperial  Pure  Food  Co. 

Newark,  New  Jersey  Vegex 

J.  W.  Beardsley's  Sons,  Frelinghusen  Ave. 

Philadelphia,  Pa Whole  Wheat  Flour 

H.  J.  Clubb,  1023  Foulkrod  St. 

Philadelphia,  Pa Nut  Foods,  Oils,  Ko-Nut 

India  Refining  Co.,  McKean  and  Swanson  St. 

Portland,  Oregon   Kaola 

Cocoanut  Products  Co.,  20th  and  Roosevelt  St. 

San  Francisco,  Cal Vegex,  Protose,  Nut  Products,  Grains 

Sanitarium  Health  Food  Store,   1176  Market  St. 

Sanitarium,  Napa  Co.,  Cal Nut  Products 

Sanitarium  Food  Co. 

Soho  Park,  N.  J Nutmargarine 

The  Nucoa  Butter  Co. 

San  Jose,  Cal Protose,  Brosia  Meals 

House  of  Rest,  236  N.  Sixth  St. 


