DDD05fl4377fi  ^ 


-.    ^'^:f^'>   y.-SkX    /.c:^,"*?. 


^^•^^.  V 


•    ^*^0« 


V     ♦: 


.•^o*      .. 


{'     "^.rS 


V  ♦ 


.     ">o^ 


,^^^    -J 


>!!?='  ,6* 


*'^..' 


.•V  . 


'^TrT'-  o''      *^*»Tr; •♦.*«•' 


/%  \iK-./\;°'^^-\**'%.->3D?,*  ^*^ 


^S>.      •«  .  .  *       A 


<>    *' .TV*   .<G 


J) 


■'^'^  '^^     'o^.T*      A 


^^..^^ 


•     -^^0^ 


♦  N.^ 


.•»°x.     . 


.•    ^°-n*. 


♦  K* 


i(maHelv 


COOK  BOOK 


rx 


•  /  0 


rn^ 


The  Range  That  Saves 

A    range    is    something    like    a 

horse —  ^-— -_         I 

You  pay  so  much  for  a  horse 
— its  feed  and  keep  amount  to  so 
much  a  year.  And  you  get  so 
much  work  from  it  and  it  lives  so 
long. 

You  pay  so  much  for  a  range 
— its  fuel  and  repairs  cost  you  so 
much.  And  you  get  so  much  cook- 
ing from  it — and  it  lasts  yow  so  long. 

The  most  expensive  item  about  either  a  horse  or  a  range  is 
not,  usually,  the  first  cost — it's  the  yearly  feed  and  fuel  bill. 

It  isn't  the  cheapest  horse  that  costs,  say,  only  $25,  eats  its 
head  off  in  a  year  and  then  goes  sick  and  dies. 

Any  more  than  It  Is  the  cheapest  range  that  costs,  say,  $25 
and  burns  up  fuel  like  sixty  and  then  goes  all  to  pieces. 

No,  sir,  the  horse  that's  worth  the  most  is  the  one  that  will 
drive  easiest — that  doesn't  soon  tire  out — that  has  no  bad  tricks — 
that  can  be  relied  on — that  has  a  small  yearly  feed  bill — Is  health- 
iest and  lives  longest. 

And  the  best  range  is  the  one  that  will  stand  the  hardest 
usage — will  use  the  least  fuel — that  can  be  perfectly  controlled — 
that  will  last  the  longest. 

In  short,  the  best  horse  or  the  best  range  Is  that  which  will 
do  the  most  work  at  the  least  cost. 

Now,  what  is  a  range? 

It  Is  simply  a  cooking  contrivance  consisting  of  a  top  and 
an  oven — heated  bv  a  fire  in  a  fire  box. 


Copyrighted,  1906,  Malleable  Iron  Range  Co.,   Beaver  Darn,  Wis, 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


Just  as  a  locomotive  is  best  that  can  convert  the  most  ELerg\^ 
from  the  coal  it  uses  into  Work  with  the  least  loss. 

So  is  a  range  best  which  can  convert  the  most  Heat  of  the 
Coal  it  uses  into  Cooking  Power  with  the  least  loss. 
Years  ago  they  had  no  ranges. 

They  cooked  over  an  open  grate 
or  fire. 

It  was  a  good  thing  that  fuel  was 
cheap  in  those  days  because  this  fire 
had  to  heat  the  outside  air  as  weV  as 
the  dish  it  was  intended  to  coo' 
Yet  to  a  certain  extent  these 
conditions  hold  good  today. 

For  there   are  many   ranges 
are    so    constructed    that    they 
convert  all  the  Heat  of  the  coal 
use  into  Cooking  Power — they>,1o 
lot — not  because  they  are  as  open  as  the  old  fashioned  open  ^ 
but  because  they  are  letting  in  the  outside  cold  air  into  th^  r 
through  nearly  every  joint  and  seam — through  imperfectly  c 
openings  at  the  oven  door — the  draft  door — the  ash  pan  doc 
They  lose  heat  in  a  range  just  as  you  lose  heat  in  a  bath 
turn  on  the  cold  water  as  well  as  the  hot  water  tap. 

Hence  there's  a  waste  in  fuel —  > 

It  may  not  seem  much — you  maybe  won't  notice  it  at 
But  by-and-by  you  will  notice  that  things  don't  cook 
in  your  oven  or  on  top  of  your  range  as  they  did  at  first — 

You  have  to  keep  turning  dishes  in  the  oven — and  -     aI/i 
to  put  such   a  fierce  fire  on   that  you  get  the  top   and     roi 
your  range  red  hot — in  order  to  have  thincrs  cook  proper]  . 


Years  Ago 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


.7e  have  on  record  well  authenticated  cases  which  show  that 
these  "loose  jointed"  ranges  will  waste  about  $24.00  worth  of 
fuel  in  a  year. 

That's  a  Conservative  or  average  record. 

At  the  very  least,  in  sections  where  fuel  is  most  cheap  it  is  safe 
to  say  this  waste  would  amount  to  $12,  anyway. 

Remember  that's  waste  and  not  the  entire  fuel  bill — 
That  $24  waste  must  be  figured  into  the  cost  of  the  stove — 
If  you  pay  $40  for  such  a  range  it  means  that  the  first  year 
it  costs  you  $64. 

^-^t  the  "trouble"  doesn't  stop  at  just  waste  and  unsatisfactory 
ng.  The  material  in  these  ranges  may  either  play  out — or 
teriorate  that  you  waste  not  $24  but  $48  or  more  per  year. 
1  other  words,  your  range  may  play  out  altogether  in  from 
0  five  years — for  that's  the  history  of  this  kind  of  range. 
\o\v  certain  ranges  are  not  Fuel  Wasters  and  Short  Livers 
because  we  or  anybody  else  say  they  are. 

The  fault  lies  in  the  material  they're  made  from  and  in  the 
they're  put  together. 

"he  materials   that  produce   the   most  of   these   leaky   ranges 
ually   the   sheet   steel   and   Grey    Iron — the   most   common 
UT.i-ial  used  in  making  stoves. 

Iron — the  Commercial  Metal  is  made  from  the  element  Iron 

i    ontains  other  elements  such  as  graphite,  silicon  and  carbon. 

"ne  amount  of   carbon   an   iron  contains  and   the  way   it  is 

kvA  determine  its  character  and  the  uses  to  which  it  can  be 

1    -d. 

he  more  carbon  an  iron  contains,  the  more  brittle  or  easily 


^Lahle  will  it  be  and  the  more  readily  will  it  be  affected  by  heat, 
^rey  Iron  contains  a  high  percentage  of  Carbon — 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


You  can't  hammer  Grey  Iron — it  would  break. 
And  that's  where  the  trouble  comes  In  In  the  ordinary  sheet 
steel  and  Grey  Iron  Ranges. 

For  In  these  stoves,  Joints  have 
either  to  be  bolted  with  a  thread  bolt 
and  screwed  together  or  else  riveted. 
Then  these  joints  are  plastered 
^  with  stove  putty  to  make  them  air- 
tight. Just  run  the  blade  of  your 
knife  some  time  Into  the  joint  of  the 
oven  where  the  stove  body  and  oven 
come  together — you  can  dig  the  putty 
out — 

Once  you  put  that  range  In  use — 
the  alternate  heating  and  cooling  causes  the  metal  to  expand  and 
contract. 

The  nut  on  the  thread  bolt  soon  works  loose — the  seams  open 
between  the  rivets — the  stove  putty  drys  up — and  sometimes  drops 
out.  This  takes  place  In  every  joint  In  the  stove  whether  bolted 
or  riveted. 

There  you  have  your  "air  leaks"  In  every  joint  to  waste  fuel — 
to  cook  unsatisfactorily — to  worry  you.  To  get  worse  every  day 
until  you  can  no  longer  use  the  stove. 


The  Knife  Test 


Malleable  Iron  Range 

But  Sheet  Steel  used  In  combination  with  Malleable  Iron  can 
be  made  Into  a  perfect  range,  If  the  range  be  properly  constructed. 
This  stove  is  known  as  the  Malleable  Iron  Range. 

Malleable  Iron  Is  about  the  only  metal  that  can  stand  the 
extremes  of  heat  and  cold  without  undergoing  any  serious  amount 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


of  contraction  and  expansion — and  Malleable  Iron,  unlike  Grey 
Iron,  can  be  hammered  with  great  force  without  being  broken — 

Malleable  Iron 

For  the  most  pronounced  difference  between  Malleable  and 
Grey  Iron  lies  in  the  percentage  of  Carbon  each  contains. 

Grey  Iron  contains  a  high  percentage  of  Carbon. 

Malleable  Iron  in  its  finished  state  is  practically  free  from 
Carbon. 

It  has  a  close,  dense,  compact  texture. 

It  is  tough. 

It  can  be  w^orked  under  the  hammer  cold. 

It  is  unbreakable. 

It  will  stand  the  fiercest  heat. 

When  heated  red  hot  you  can  throw  water  on  it  without 
affecting  it  in  the  least. 

If  made  into  furnace  Grate  Bars  Malleable  Iron  will  stand 
the  hot  blast  of  an  air  blast  furnace  for  two  weeks. 

Grey  Iron  bars  would  not  last  out  more  than  two  days. 

Annealing  Pots  made  of  Malleable  Iron  can  stand  the  tremen- 
dous heat  to  which  they  are  subjected  for  from  nine  to  fifteen 
heats. 

Grey  Iron  pots  would  not  last  more  than  three  heats. 

For  these  reasons,  Malleable  Iron  is  peculiarly  fitted  for  those 
parts  of  a  range  which  have  to  resist  the  strains  of  heating  and 
cooling — such  as  the  top — anchor  plates  and  covers — and  the  range 
frames. 

And  Malleable  Iron  is  especially  fitted  for  those  parts  of  a 
range  that  must  be  riveted  air-tight — for  it  supplies  an  absolutely 
rigid  and  non-impressionable  base  to  which  the  other  material  of 
the  range,  i.  e.,  the  sheet  steel,  can  be  riveted  tightly  and  solidly. 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


Hence,  if  properly  constructed — all  the  joints  and  seams  and 
ail  the  openings  in  a  Malleable  Iron  range,  such  as  the  oven 
door — the  fire  door — the  draft  door — the  ash  pan  door — the  back 
flue,  etc.,  can  be  made  practically  air  tight. 

But  not  all  Malleable  Iron  Ranges  are  air-tight  and  con- 
trollable, however. 

Maybe  because  their  makers  do  not  see  the  tremendous  impor- 
tance of  making  their  stoves  air  tight. 

Maybe  because  it  costs  too  much. 

At  any  rate,  there  are  many  Malleable  Iron  ranges  that  look 
like  pretty  good  stoves — but  they  will  suck  in  the  cold  air  from 
the  outside  through  a  defective  shutting  ash  box — an  open  shaker 
hole — a  loose  damper — or  an  ill-fitting  loose  construction  some- 
where. 

These  kinds  of  Malleable  Iron  Ranges  are  very  little,  if  any 
better  than  an  ordinary  old  fashioned  Steel  Range  with  Grey 
Iron  top  for  they  waste  fuel  just  as  badly. 

In  the  Monarch  Malleable  Iron  Range  alone  is  this  splendid 
material — Malleable  Iron — largely  used — with  the  best  quality 
sheet  steel — i.  e.,  Wellsville  Polished  Steel  to  make  a  perfect  range. 

There  are  no  "Air  Leaks"  in  the  Monarch.  It  is  practically 
"air  tight" — Body — Fire  Box — everywhere. 

The  Monarch  saves  fuel — it  keeps  in  perfect  condition  for 
years  with  reasonable  use. 

Construction 

Now,    here's    the    way   we   make    a   Monarch    tight — to   stay 

tight- 
Here's  the  way  we  prevent  "air  leaks"  that  waste  your  fuel — 

ruin  your  temper — spoil  your  bakings — and  cost  you  lots  of  money. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


Here's  the  way  we  make  a  range  that  you  can  control  per- 
fectly— have  your  fire  as  hot  as  you  want  in  5  minutes  or  banked 
down  in  an  equal  time. 

Here's  the  way  we  make  a  range  that,  with  reasonable  care, 
will  cook  as  well  fifteen  years  from  now  as  it  does  today — 

First,   Madam   Housekeeper,  we  want  to  ask  you  what  was 
one  of  the  things  you  most  dreaded 
about     your     ordinary     sheet     steel 
range — 

Keeping  it  clean,  wasn't  it? 

Unless  you  gave  it  a  hard,  back 
breaking  rub  every  day — your  range 
looked  dirty,  unkempt  and  repulsive — 

Made  your  whole  kitchen  look 
untidy,  didn't  it? 

You  couldn't  bring  your  friends 
into  your  kitchen  unless  that  range 
was  cleaned   every  day. 

Then  when  you  _did  clean  it  the  black  lead  was  pretty  sure 
to  get  on  your  pots  and  pans  and  increase  your  work  keeping 
them  clean — 

Well,  you  won't  have  any  such  trouble  with  the  Monarch. 

For  the  top — i.  e.,  anchor  plate  and  covers — is  of  Malleable 
Iron,  polished  bright  as  a  well-worn  steel  rail.  After  the  first  use, 
the  anchor  plates  and  covers  turn  a  deep  blue  color.  The  top 
of  the  Monarch  requires  only  a  little  rubbing  with  a  cloth  once 
a  day  to  keep  it  clean  and  bright.  There's  no  back-breaking 
polishing  and  rubbing  with  the  Monarch  as  you  have  to  do  in 
ordinary  ranges. 


-^P- 


The  hard  work  of  cleaning 
the  ordinary  range 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


The  housewife  can  show  the  Monarch  to  her  friend  at  any 
time  with  pride  and  pleasure.  It  makes  her  kitchen  look  clean 
and  inviting. 

Then  the  top  of  the  Monarch  is  lighter  in  weight  than  an 
ordinary  grey  iron  top. 

A  lighter  and  more  close  grained  metal  will  transmit  heat 
more  quickly  and  with  less  loss  than  a  thicker  metal. 

Now,  fully  four-fifths  of  the 
household  cooking  is  done  on  the  top 
of  a  range. 

Therefore,  a  top  that  will  heat 
more  quickly  and  conduct  more  heat 
with  less  loss  will  save  fuel — see  the 
point? 

And  it  will  do  more — it  will  save 

The  difference  between  the  Monarch  

Polished  Top  and  the  your    stovc's    firc    box — lengthen    the 

ordinary  top 

life  of  your  stove. 

These  are  some  of  the  points  of  superiority  of  the  Monarch's 
Malleable  top — over  others. 

Still  another  is  its  strength. 

You  can  strike  two  of  the  covers  together  but  they  won't 
break — 

Strike  two  Grey  Iron  Covers  together  and  you'll  have  to 
buy  a  new  pair. 

The  Frames  in  the  Monarch  are  of  Malleable  Iron — 

The  top  frame  that  binds  the  body  of  the  stove  together  and 
each  of  the  frames  around  the  Oven  Door — the  Ash  Door — the 
Pouch  Feed — the  Warming  Closet  opening — and  at  the  back  of 
the  Oven,  etc.,  form  an  absolutely  rigid  base  to  w^hich  the  steel 
can  be  riveted — a  base  unaffected  by  the  extremes  of  temperature 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO.  9 

and  all  these  Malleable  Frames  are  riveted  tight  and  solid  to  the 
Body,  making  a  practically  air-tight  construction  everywhere. 

Now,  this  is  the  way  the  frames  are  riveted  around  the  Body 
openings — 

A  flange  of  this  frame  projects  inward  to  cover  the  Steel  of 
the  Body — that's  how  we  do  it. 

That's  why  we  don't  need  to  use  an  ounce  of  Stove  Putty 
in  a  year  in  Monarchs. 

That's  why  there  are  no  thread  bol^-s  or  steel  riveted  to  steel 
to  work  loose  and  open  up  joints  all  over  the  range. 

The  Range  Body 

The  body  of  the  Monarch  is  made  of  18-gauge  Wellsville 
Polished  Steel — the  best  and  handsomest  steel  manufactured. 

This  Body  remains  for  years,  with  a  little  care,  a  handsome 
deep  blue  color. 

Other  makers  charge  extra  for  a  Wellsville  Polished  Steel 
Body — this  is  a  tacit  admission  that  it  is  better  than  any  other 
material  for  Stove  Bodies. 

A  Wellsville  Polished  Steel  Body  is  far  superior  to  a  painted 
body — a  painted  body  has  to  be  repainted — it  always  looks 
gummed — it  turns  brown — accumulates  lint  and  dust  and  can 
never  be  repainted  successfully. 

The  Asbestos  Lining 

The  Body  of  the  Monarch  is  lined  with  Asbestos  riveted  to  a 
sheet  of  steel. 

This  steel  is  in  turn  attached  to  the  body — and  the  Asbestos 
is  exposed  to  the  superheated  air  in  the  flue  passing  over  and 
around  the  Oven. 


10 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


The  Monarch  Fireb 


The  Asbestos  reflects  the  heat  onto  the  Oven  where  it  is 
needed. 

In   ordinary  ranges  where  the  Asbestos  is   for  the  most  part 
covered  with  steel — the  steel  absorbs  the  heat,  taking  it  away  from 
the  oven. 

The  Asbestos  lining  in  the  Monarch 
can  be  readily  removed  if  it  should  ever 
be  necessary  to  do  so. 

And  since  it  is  not  riveted  to  the  right 
side  of  the  Range  Body  it  does  not  mark  up 
the  Range  Body  but  leaves  it  smooth  and 
attractive — 

It  must  not  be  supposed  from  this  that 
all  the  heat  in  the  Monarch  is  contained  in 
the  range — that  the  Monarch  will  not  heat 
the  kitchen  if  so  required. 
Far  from  it. 

The  Monarch  Top  will  heat  even  better  than  the  Tops  of 
other  ranges — 

And  if  you  want  a  fine  warm  floor  just  open  the  warming 
closet  door — 

You  will  have  more  heat  than  you  could  get  from  a  base 
burner. 

The  Firebox 

Does  it  take  about  an  hour  to  get  up  a  cooking  fire  in  your 
range  ? 

And  when  you  are  through  with  it,  does  it  take  about  an  hour 
for  it  to  "slow  down"  again? 

That's  the  trouble  nearly  every  one  experiences  who  has  an 
ordinary  range. 

And  it's  caused  by  a  leaky  fire  box — one  that  you  can't  control. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


11 


Where  the  ordinary  damper 
leaks  air 


You  see  in  ordinary  sheet  steel  ranges  with  Grey  Iron  Tops 
and  in  most  Malleable  Iron  Ranges  there  are  many  places  where 
the  outside  air  gets  into  the  Fire  Box. 

Maybe  through  the  long  draft  damper  that  is  regulated  by  a 
slide  at  the  left  side  of  the  range — 

This  damper  is  usually  merely  a 
cast  plate  bolted  to  the  steel  body — 
(it  can't  be  riveted  because  it  would 
break) — 

The  bolts  work  loose  through 
this  expansion  and  contraction  of  the 
metal  and  an  opening  is  formed 
between  the  frame  of  the  draft  plate 
and  the  steel  in  the  Body  for  air  to 
get  in — even  when  the  damper  is  shut. 

Then,  air  gets  in  through  the  opening  allowed  for  the  grate 
bar  to  come  through  for  shaking  and  dumping — through  the 
bolted  and  puttied  Ash  Box  opening  or  front  Damper — or  the 
Ash  Pan  opening  or  where  the  Ash  Pan  pulls  out  Door  and 
all — for  this  kind  of  Ash  Pan  invariably  slides  up  on  the  Ashes 
when  being  returned  and  leaves  a  "gap"  in  the  opening  to  let  in  air. 

When  you  can't  shut  your  Fire  Box  off  perfectly  and  tightly, 
you  are  using  Fuel  when  you  don't  want  it — therefore  you're 
wasting  money. 

With  a  Monarch  you  can  have  a  fire  whenever  you  want  it — 

It  responds  almost  as  quickly  as  the  fire  in  a  gas  stove. 

And  when  you're  through  with  it,  you  can  bank  it  down  in 
very  nearly  the  same  time  that  it  takes  to  turn  out  a  Gas  Fire. 

For  you  have  perfect  control  of  your  fire  in  the  Monarch 
fire  box — because  it  is  practically  air-tight — 


12  THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 

No  air  can  get  in  anywhere — for  the  Feed  Door,  the  Ash  Door 
and  the  Duplex  Draft  opening  are  all  riveted  tight  and  solid  to 
a  Malleable  Iron  Frame — 

And  the  opening  for  the  Grate  Bar  is  closed  with  an  Indicator 
which  tells  whether  the  Wood  or  Coal  Side  of  the  Grate  is  in  use. 

Then  the  Fire  Box  of  the  Monarch  has  proven  in  thousands 
of  instances  that  it  won't  crack — burn  out  from  heat  or  be  eaten 
out  by  smoke,  acids  and  gases  like  ordinary  range  Fire  Boxes. 

The  Linings  are  made  of  extra  heavy  castings — for  the  strain 
on  the  Monarch  Fire  Box  is  so  slight  that  we  can  use  castings — 
they're  cheaper  than  Malleable  Iron.  The  back  wall  of  the  Fire 
Box  is  perpendicular  and  in  4  pieces  to  provide  for  heat  expansion. 
It  is  also  corrugated  to  prevent  a  solid  contact  with  coal. 

Then  there  is  a  liberal  space  between  the  back  of  the  rear  wall 

of  the  Fire  Box  and  the  front  of  the  oven  and  the  front  lining 

of  Fire  Box  and  left  end  of  Range  Body  to  enable  the  circulation 

of  air  and  so  prevent  burned-out  linings. 

*         *         * 

Did  you  ever  try  to  burn  wood  on  a  Coal  Grate? 

You  weren't  very  successful,  were  you? 

For,  usually,  the  wood  grate  has  smaller  holes  in  it  than  the 
coal — Therefore  it  won't  burn  coal  readily. 

In  an  ordinary  range  }'0u  couldn't  tell, 
however,  which  you  were  using — wood  or 
coal  grate. 

But  in  the  Monarch  you  can  tell  every 
time  by  the  Indicator — outside  on  the 
Range  Body  next  the  grate  shaft  for 
shaking  and  dumping.  ^'"  ^rate  indicator 

But  the  Principal  feature  of  the  Monarch  Fire  Box  is  the 
Duplex  Draft, 


MALLEABLE  IROxN  RANGE  CO. 


13 


Tht  Duplex  Draft 


You  know  the  difficulties  of  the  Ordinary  ranse  draft- 
It  is  either  at  one  end  of  the  Fire 
Box    and    makes    an    uneven    fire — hot 
towards    the    draft    side — cold    towards 
the  back  of  the  stove. 

Or  it  is  across  the  left  side  of  the 
stove  and  leaks  air,  as  we  have  seen. 

There's  no  uneven  fire  in  the  Mon- 
arch— no  "air  leaks" — 

Simply  an  absolutely  uniform  fire  from  one  end  of  the  Fire  Box 
to  the  other — and  that's  due  to  the  Duplex  Draft. 

The  Duplex  Draft  is  a  draft  at  the  front  and  back  of  the 
Fire  Box. 

You  pull  a  handle  and  both  back  and  front  drafts  open 
simultaneously — then  you  shut  them  up  in  the  same  way. 

The  big  advantage  of  the  Duplex  Draft  is  in  the  fact  that  it 
sends  an  even  flow^  of  heat  the  entire  width  of  the  stove  to 
envelop  the  Oven. 

The  Oven 

Does  your  oven  cook  more  quickly  on  one  side  than  on 
another — do  you  have  to  keep  turning  your  roasts  around  so's 
to  have  them  browned  uniformly? 

Is  your  oven  slow — do  you  have 
to  put  on  a  roaring  fire  to  have  your 
Food  cooked  at  all? 

Do  you  know  what's  the  matter? 

Either  a  leaky  oven  with  nearly 

every    joint    letting    in    cold    air — or 

else  the   trouble's  caused  by  the  one 

sided    flow   of   hot   air   from   the   fire 

The  construction  of  the  ,  ^  ,  •ill 

ordinary  oven  Dox  irom  the  one-sideo  damper. 


14  THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 

Now,  we  know  how  this  one-sided  heat  is  caused. 
You  see,  the  ordinary  range  oven  is  fastened  to  the  Body  by 
simply  turning  over  or  flanging  the  Steel  and   riveting  it  to  the 
Body. 

This  joint  then  has  its  "liberal  allowance"  of  Stove  Putty — to 
hide  the  crack  underneath. 

After  a  few  heatings  and  coolings  the  Stove  Putty  shrivels  up 
and  there  is  Mr.  Crack  letting  in  the  cold  air  to  beat  the  band. 

*         *         * 
You  can  place  four  potatoes  of  equal  size  in  each  corner  of 
the  Monarch  Oven  and  one  in  the  center  and  at  the  end  of  a 
certain  time  they  will  be  cooked  uniformly. 

Your  roasts  and  bakings  will  be  deliciously  and  uniformly 
browned. 

You  won't  have  to  keep  turning  dishes  and  pans  In  the 
(Monarch  oven  to  have  your  food  cooked  uniformly. 

And  you  can  do  it  on  a  minimum 
amount  of  fuel. 

Because  the  Monarch  oven  Is  the 
only  oven  that  has  a  perfectly  uniform 
envelope  of  heat — due  to  the  Duplex 
Draft. 

And  it  Is  the  only  oven  that  does 
not  leak  air. 

For  the  Monarch  oven  Is  riveted 
tight    and    solid    to    Malleable    Iron 

Construction  of  Monarch  oven 

frames  both  back  and  front. 

The  sides  and  top  of  the  oven  are  16-gauge  patent  leveled 
cold  rolled  steel. 

And  the  bottom  will  neither  warp  nor  buckle  and  cook  your 
puddings  crooked,  for  it  is  made  of  12-gauge  steel    (about  three 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO.  15 

times  as  heavy  as  the  material  in  same  place  in  an  ordinary  range), 
reinforced  by  the  Flue  strip  which  is  flanged  and  riveted  to  the 
oven  bottom  and  the  Flue  bottom. 

The  top  of  the  oven  is  braced  with  a  Malleable  Arch — this  in 
turn  supports  the  Anchor  plates  on  the  top. 

You  can  place  a  wash  boiler  with  80  or  90  pounds  of  water 
on  the  Anchor  Plates  when  they're  hot  and  you  won't  spring 
them  the  fraction  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch. 

The  Monarch  oven  is  absolutely  rigid — two  men  can  stand 
on   the  oven   door — that  will   give  you   an   idea  of   the   splendid 

construction  of  the  Monarch. 

*         *         * 

When  you  open  the  Monarch  oven  door  your  kitchen  won't 
fill  with  smoke  or  cooking  odors. 

For  the  Monarch  oven  is  ventilated. 

The  Reservoir 

The  Monarch  is  provided  with  a  reservoir  at  either  the  right 
or  left  hand  side  of  the  range.  The  Reservoir  at  the  left  hand 
side  is  much  better  than  the  left  reservoir  used  in  any  other  range. 

It  is  made  of  Copper — Nickel  Plated 
— has  a  large  capacity  and  heats  by  con- 
tact with  a  plate  forming  part  of  the 
Fire  Box. 

It  is  held  firmly  against  this  plate 
by  its  ow^n  weight — it  is  not  simply 
pushed  against  the  contact  plate  either 
by  pinions  or  by  hand  as  in  other  ranges 
— to  become  detached  from  the  contact  plate 
by  vibration  of  the  kitchen  floor  and  not   to  The  le/t  side 

heat.      The    Monarch    reservoir    has    a    close 
direct  contact — it  will  heat  water  more  quickly  than  any  other 
reservoir. 


16  THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 

Then  it  rests  on  movable  brackets — which  can  be  moved  out- 
ward to  break   the  contact  whenever  the  water  boils  or  "thumps." 

The  Reservoir  on  the  right  hand  side  is  in  contact  with  a 
Convex  Plate,  which  we  rivet  to  the  side  of  the  range.  This  plate 
is  heated  uniformly  by  the  even  flow  of  superheated  air  passing 
over  and  around  the  oven.  There  are  no  special  reservoir  dampers 
in  the  Monarch  to  rob  your  oven  of  heat  or  to  get  clogged  with 
ashes. 

The  Heating  plate  forms  a  part 

^^^f'^  of  the  body  and  swells  or  bulges  out- 

^^^^^a^         ward.     The  side  of  the  tank  is  drawn 

M^^^^Hk         tightly   against   the  plate,    forming   a 
^^H^HB         solid  contact  at  every  point  and  pre- 
"^^^         venting   air   space   between   the    tank 
and  heating  plate. 
,      ,  „  This  reservoir  has  a  malleable  top 

The  right  side  Resrrvolf 

flush  with  the  top  of  the  Range. 

The  tank  is  made  of  copper. 

It  is  not  connected  permanently  with  the  body  of  the  range 
but  is  covered  with  a  casing  or  skirting  near  it. 

This  casing  or  skirting  is  open  at  the  bottom  so  that  there  is  a 
free  circulation  of  air  to  prevent  the  sweating  and  rusting  common 
in  all  other  "closed  in"  reservoirs. 

The  Waterfront 

•The  Monarch  waterfronts  are  made  in  three  styles.  We 
make  a  waterfront  for  ranges  burning  soft  coal  or  wood. 

This  is  known  as  the  Pin  Extension  waterfront.  It  projects 
the  water  practically  over  the  fire  and  presents  a  much  greater 
heating  surface  than  any  other  waterfront. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO.  17 

The  advantage  of  the  waterfront  is  that  it  will  produce  enough 
hot  water  when  cooking  meals  to  keep  you  supplied  with  hot 
\vater  the  whole  day  long — and  it  does  not  require  a  special  fire 
to  heat  your  boiler  of  water  and  waste  fuel  as  in  those  stoves 
which  are  not  equipped  with  the  Pin  Extension  waterfront. 

Then  we  have  another  waterfront 
for  ranges  using  hard  coal.  This  is  of 
less  heating  surface,  since  a  hard  coal 
fire  is  burning  most  of  the  time,  unlike 
soft  coal  or  w^ood. 

Then  we  make  still  another  water- 
front to  accommodate  a  Pouch  Feed — 
having  a  larger  heating  surface  than 
that  in  any  other  range  using  a  Pouch 

p'gpfj^  The  Firebox  and  Pin  Extension 

IFaterfront 

Lower  Flue  Lining 

The  Lower  Flue  Lining  underneath  the  oven  which  forms 
the  top  of  the  warming  closet  beneath  the  range  is  made  of 
steel  almost  double  the  thickness  used  at  this  point  in  other  ranges. 
This  prevents  any  damage  from  Creosote  eating  the  metal  which 
is  commonly  experienced  in  other  ranges. 

The  Warming  Closet 

The  Warming  Closet  underneath  the  regular  oven  in  the 
Monarch  presents  an  absolutely  dry  place  for  storing  cooking 
utensils  and  such  articles  as  require  care  to  prevent  rust. 

It  will  also  give  as  good  a  heat  on  a  cold  winter  morning  as 
a  base  burner. 


18  THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 

The  Top  Closet 

The  Top  Closet  is  supplied  with  a  roll  door  or  two  "drop 
forward"  doors.  The  drop  forward  doors  are  Malleable,  fitted 
to  Malleable  frames — they  can  easily  hold  a  heavy  load. 

There  is  room  for  a  large  dinner  to  be  kept  warm  in  this 
Top  Closet  and  a  woman  with  it  can  handle  many  more  cooking 
utensils  about  a  Monarch  range  than  she  can  in  any  other  range. 

The  Shelf 

The  Shelf  projecting  at  the  right  hand  side  of  the  Monarch 
is  an  article  of  great  utility. 

It  is  made  of  Malleable  Iron  and 
will  hold  securely  a  boiler  of  water 
and  as  many  flat-irons  as  the  house- 
wife can  pile  on. 

This  will  be  appreciated  by  those 
people  who  have  had  an  ordinary 
Grey  Iron  Shelf  break  off  under  even 

Monarch  Bach  Flue  v;ith  ^    ^^ght    load. 

Malleable  Bottom 

The  Three  Piece  Damper 

The  "back"  damper  or  damper  at  the  Pipe  Collar  is  made  of 
only  three  pieces — and  it  fits  perfectly  and  won't  break.  An 
advantage  every  woman  will  value  who  has  had  the  bother  and 
expense  of  an  ordinary  complicated  breakable  damper. 

The  Oven  Thermometer 
The  Monarch  oven   thermometer  is  of  the  latest  and   most 
approved  pattern. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO.  19 

By  it  the  heat  of  the  oven  can  be  perfectly  regulated — 

You  don't  have  to  experiment  or  test  the  heat  of  your  oven. 
There's  no  chance  of  having  a  hotter  fire  than  you  require — 

Roasts  that  require  a  variable  fire — hotter  at  first,  then  more 
moderate,  can  be  cooked  to  a  delicious  perfection  by  means  of  the 
Monarch  Thermometer. 

Its  accuracy  saves  Fuel. 

The  Fuel 

There  are  no  restrictions  as  to  the  kind  of  fuel  to  use  in  a 
Monarch — Hard  Coal — Soft  Coal — or  even  Lignite  will  burn 
perfectly  and  economically. 

Wood,  Cobs  or  other  light  fuels  are  used  on  the  wood  side 
of  the  Grate. 

A  Malleable  Iron  extension  which  is  riveted  tight  to  the  back 
part  of  the  fire  box — not  merely  bolted  to  come  loose  as  in  other 
ranges — is  provided  where  long  wood  is  used. 

The  Way  to  Clean  Out  the  Flues 

Place  the  Ash  Pan  partly  inside  the  warming  closet. 

Open  the  clean  out  door. 

And  you  can  take  out  all  the  ashes  in  the  flues  without  getting 
any  on  yourself  or  in  your  kitchen — as  you  will  have  to  do  with 
an  ordinary  range. 

The  Ash  Pan  is  provided  with  Ash  Sheds — which  direct  the 
ashes  into  the  Ash  Pan,  preventing  them  from  dropping  outside 
of  the  Pan. 

The  frame  to  which  the  Ash  Door  is  hinged  is  higher  than 
the  bottom  of  the  Ash  Pit. 


20  THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 

You  can  draw  out  the  Ash  Pan  without  littering  your  floor 

with  ashes. 

*  *         * 

The  Nickeling  in  ordinary  ranges  is  mighty  bothersome  to 
keep  clean. 

It  is  so  elaborate — has  so  many  places  to  collect  lint  and  dust 
that  a  housewife  has  to  spend  much  of  her  time  trying  to  clean  it. 

For  if  this  nickeling  isn't  properly  cleaned  it  makes  the  whole 
range  look  dirty. 

Then  another  thing  about  ordinary  nickeling — 

It  nearly  always  looks  flat — its  color  has  no  depth  to  it. 

In  the  Monarch  that's  all  different. 

In  the  first  place  the  nickelings  are  all  high  surface. 

Simply  a  rub  will  keep  them  clean — there  are  no  places  to 
collect  lint  and  dust. 

Then  it's  a  much  better  and  deeper  color — for  we  do  our 
nickeling  better  than  that  done  on  any  other  range. 

It's  a  mighty  handsome  Range,  take  it  all  in  all. 

All  in  good  taste — 

An  ornament  to  any  woman's  kitchen. 

*  *         * 

The  Protecting  Bar  is  made  of  special  steel — don't  be  afraid 
of  it — you  can  lift  the  stove  with  it. 

The  foregoing  is  a  complete  analysis  of  every  part  of  the 
Monarch  Malleable  Iron  Range. 

It  tells  you  why  the  Monarch  is  better  than  any  other  range 
made,  in  every  individual  part  and  in  the  complete  range. 

It  shows  why  the  Monarch  will  cook  better — will  give  better 
satisfaction  and  will  last  longer  than  any  other  range. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO.  21 


And  above  all — since  the  Monarch  is  practically  air-tight  to 
stay  air-tight,  therefore  perfectly  controllable — this  analysis  shows 
why  the  Monarch  saves  fuel — the  largest  expense  item  in  con- 
nection with  a  range. 

Now,  although  the  Monarch  is  vastly  superior  to  every  other 
stove — Malleable — Grey  Iron — Sheet  Steel,  etc. 

Although  our  range  operatives  are  all  specialists  in  their  line 
of  Monarch  Construction,  commanding  good  wages. 

Although  every  bit  of  work  is  submitted  to  the  closest  possible 
inspection. 

And  although  every  ounce  of  Malleable  material  in  the 
Monarch  is  tested  by  a  drop  hammer  before  being  accepted  for 
Monarchs — all  items  of  cost  that  very  few  other  range  manufac- 
turers have  to  pay — 

Yet  the  first  cost  of  the  Monarch,  that  as  we  have  seen  saves 
Fuel  and  therefore  Money,  is  very  little  more  than  that  of  the 
ordinary  stove  which  loses  or  wastes  on  an  average  $24.00  a  year 
in  fuel. 

Thus,  you  see,  if  your  income  is  moderate  you  can't  afford  to 
buy  any  other  range  than  the  Monarch. 

Unless  you  have  no  regard  for  money  and  can  afiford  to  waste 
it  you  should  secure  a  Monarch  at  your  earliest  opportunit}'. 

Write  us — The  Malleable  Iron  Range  Company  at  Beaver 
Dam,  Wisconsin,  and  we  will  tell  you  where  and  how  you  can 
obtain  a  Monarch. 

Do  it  today,  won't  you,  please? 


22 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


Monarch  Malleable  Range 


Style  A 


For   description   see   opposite   page. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


23 


Monarch  Malleable  Range 

Style  A 


DESCRIPTION. 
Flush  Contact  Reservoir,  12  gallon  capacity.     (See  illustration,  page  16.) 
Large  Pouch  Feed,  especially  adapted  for  soft  coal,  cobs  or  lignite. 
Top  Malleable  Iron — Polished  smooth. 
Body  and  Closet  are  Wellsville  Polished  Steel. 
Duplex  Draft.     (See  illustration,  page  13.) 

Grate  Indicator,  showing  which  side  of   grate  is  turned  for  use. 
All  Ovens  13  inches  high,  21  inches  front  to  back. 
Oven  ventilated. 

Openings   cut   for   Waterfront,  covered  with   malleable  cap. 
Firebox   length    from    door   to    back    end,    21  >^    inches.       (See    description, 

page  10.)      Malleable  Extension  for  using  wood,  25  inches  long,  when 

ordered  extra. 
All  Monarch  Family  Ranges  pass  easily  through  doors  of  ordinary  width. 
Monarch  Oven   Thermometer  when  desired. 

Style  B — Same  as  Style  A  except  with  High  Closet  having  Roll  Door. 
Style  D — Same  as  Style  A  except  without  Pouch  Feed. 
Style  E — Same    as    Style   A   except   without   Pouch    Feed    and    with    High 
Closet  having  Roll  Door. 


Numbers  of  Styles 
A,  B, D  and  E 

Number  of 
Cooking  Holes 

Width  of  Oven 

Cooking  Surface 

f   225 

Sizes           325 
having     1      .^^ 
8-inch     \     425 
Covers          525 

[  825 
Sizes     r  625 
§3   j    725 

Covers     I    925 

4 
4 
6 
6 
6 

4 
6 
6 

15  in. 
17  in. 
17  in. 
19  in. 
21  in. 

17  in. 
19  in. 
21  in. 

31  x27 
33x27 
33  X  27 
35  x27 
37x27 

33x27 
35x27 
37  X  27 

24 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


Monarch  Malleable  Range 


Style  G 


For   description   see   opposite   pagre. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


25 


Monarch  Malleable  Range 

Style  G 


DESCRIPTION. 

Portable  Gravity  Reservoir,  capacity  12  gallons.     (See  illustration,  page  15.) 

Top  Malleable  Iron — Pclished  smooth. 

Body  and  Closet  are  Wellsville  Polished  Steel. 

Duplex  Draft.     (See  illustration,  page  13.) 

Grate  Indicator,  showing  which  side  of  grate  is  turned  for  use. 

All  Ovens  13  inches  high,  21  inches  front  to  back. 

Oven  ventilated. 

Waterback  for  attaching  to  pressure  boiler  when  required. 

Firebox   length    from    door   to    back    end,    211^^    inches.       (See    description, 

page  10.)      Malleable  Extension  for  using  wood,  25  inches  long,  when 

ordered  extra. 
Malleable  Extension  Shelf  to  top,  7^  2x19  inches. 

All  Monarch  Family  Ranges  pass  easily  through  doors  of  ordinary  width. 
Monarch  Oven   Thermometer  when  desired. 

Style  H — Same  as  Style  G  except  with  High   Closet  having  Roll   Door. 


Number 
G  an 

if  Styles 
d  H 

Number  of 
Cooking  Holes 

Width  of  Oven 

Cookine  Surface 

[   225 

4 

15  in. 

31x27 

Sizes 

325 

4 

17  in. 

33  X  27 

having      i 
8-inch     ' 

425 

6 

17  in. 

33  X  27 

Covers 

525 

6 

19  in. 

35x27 

L  825 

6 

21  in. 

37x27 

Sizes      f    625 

4 

17  in. 

33x27 

having    J     nnc 

^-'"^^     1     Q9? 
Covers     L    925 

6 

19  in. 

35  X  27 

6 

21  in. 

37  X  27 

26 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


Monarch  Malleable  Range 


Style  N 


For  description  see  opposite  page. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


27 


Monarch  Malleable  Range 

Style  N 


DESCRIPTION. 
Top  Malleable  Iron — Polished  smooth. 
Body  and  Closet  are  Wellsville  Polished  Steel. 
Duplex  Draft.     (See  illustration,  page  13.) 

Grate  Indicator,  showing  which  side  of  grate  is  turned  for  use. 
All  Ovens  13  inches  high,  21  inches  front  to  back. 
Oven  ventilated. 

Either  Pin  Extension  or  Plain  Waterfront.     (See  illustration,  page  17.) 
Firebox   length    from    door   to   back    end,    21^    inches.     (See    description, 

page  10.)     Malleable  Extension  for  using  wood,  25  inches  long,  when 

ordered  extra. 
Malleable  Extension  Shelf  to  top,  7^x19  inches. 

All  Monarch  Family  Ranges  pass  easily  through  doors  of  ordinary  width. 
Prices  on  these  styles  do  not  include  pressure  boiler. 
Monarch  Oven   Thermometer  when  desired. 

Style  O — Same  as  Style  N  except  with  High  Closet  having  Roll  Doors. 
Style  K — Same  as  Style  N  but  with  Pouch  Feed  and  Pouch  Feed  Waterfront. 
Style  L — Same   as   Style   N   but  with  Pouch   Feed   and  with   High   Closet 
having  Roll  Doors, 


Number  of  Styles 
N,  O,  K  and  L 

Number  of 
Cooking  Holes 

Width  of  Oven 

Cooking  Surfaces 

f    226 

4 

15  in. 

31  X  27 

Sizes            326 
having     i     .^r. 
8-inch      ]     ^^O 

4 

17  in. 

33x27 

6 

17  in. 

33x27 

Covers          526 

6 

19  in. 

35x27 

L  826 

6 

21  in. 

37x27 

Sizes 

[  626 

4 

17  in. 

33x27 

having 
9-inch 

726 

6 

19  in. 

35x27 

Covers 

[  926 

6 

21  in. 

37x27 

28 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


Monarch  Malleable  Range 


Style  R 


For   description  see   opposite   page. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


29 


Monarch  Malleable  Ranges 

Style  R 


DESCRIPTION. 
Large  Pouch  Feed,  especially  adapted  for  soft  coal,  cobs  or  lignite. 
Top  Malleable  Iron — Polished  smooth. 
Body  and  Closet  are  Wellsville  Polished  Steel. 
Duplex  Draft.     (See  illustration,  page  13.) 

Grate  Indicator,  showing  which  side  of  grate  is  turned  for  use. 
All  Ovens  13  inches  high,  21  inches  front  to  back. 
0<ven  ventilated. 

Openings  cut  for  Waterfront  covered  with  malleable  cap. 
Firebox   length    from    door    to   back    end,    21^    inches.     (See    description, 

page  10.)     Malleable  Extension  for  using  wood,  25  inches  long,  when 

ordered  extra. 
Malleable  Extension  Shelf  to  top,  7^x19  inches. 

All  Monarch  Family  Ranges  pass  easily  through  doors  of  ordinary  width. 
Monarch  Oven  Thermometer  when  desired. 

Style  8 — Same  as  Style  R  except  with  High  Closet  having  Roll  Door. 
Style  V — Same  as  Style  R  except  without  Pouch  Feed. 
Style  W — Same  as  Style  R  except  with  Pouch  Feed  and  with  High  Closet 
having  Roll  Door. 


Number  of  Styles 
R.S.  V  and  W 

Number  of 
Cooking  Holes 

Width  of  Oven 

Cooking  Surface 

Sizes 
having 
8-inch 
Covers 

Sizes 
having 
9-inch 
Covers 

224 
324 
424 
524 
.  824 

r  624 
724 
924 

4 
4 

6 
6 
6 

4 

6 
6 

15  in. 
17  in. 
17  in. 
19  in. 
21  in. 

17  in. 
19  in. 
21  in. 

31  X  27 
33  X  27 
33  X  27 
35x27 
37x27 

33  X  27 
35x27 
37x27 

30 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


Complete  Triumph  and  Highest  Anjuards  at  the 
Leivis  and  Clark  Exposition,  IQO^ 

The  first  exposition  at  which  Monarch  Malleable  Iron  Ranges  were 
ever  displayed,  was  the  great  Lewis  and  Clark  Centennial  at  Portland, 
Oregon,  in  1905. 

Dozens  of  prize-winning  ranges  of  other  makes  from  the  Chicago  and 
St.  Louis  World's  Fairs  were  there.  Over  these,  the  Monarch  Malleable 
received  two  gold  medals  and  two  diplomas.  So  strongly  impressed  were 
the  Committee  of  Award  with  the  superiority  of  the  Monarch  Malleable 
Range  that  they  wrote  us  unsolicited  the  letter  which  we  reproduce  on  the 
next  page,  stating  that  they  gave  us  the  highest  award  on  the  first  ballot, 
and  that  had  there  been  any  higher  prize  offered,  the  Monarch  Range 
would  certainly  have  received  it !  They  say  also  that  they  found  the 
Monarch  the  best  finished  and  best  constructed  Range,  with  more  special 
features    than    any    other    range    on    exhibition. 

No  letter  of  commendation  was  given  to  any  other  exhibitor  of  ranges 
by  the  Jury. 

The  Jury  was  international  in  scope,  being  composed  of  representa- 
tives of  foreign  governments  besides  Americans  of  prominence  in  Mechani- 
cal   Engineering. 

This  award,  with  the  commendatory  letter  of  the  Jury,  is  therefore 
the  prize  of  prizes,  placing  the  Monarch  Ranges  where  they  belong,  at  the 
very  top  of  all  ranges.  It  is  a  merited  recognition  of  quality  in  design, 
material  and  workmanship  of  which  we  are  proud,  and  its  verdict  is  con- 
firmed by  the  great  American  public,  the  court  of  last  resort. 


MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


31 


GOOOE,   PBtSlDtN 


HENRY   E.  REED.  SECR 


FIIST    NATIONAL   BANK,    T<tE«8U«t« 


DIVISION    OF    EXHIBITS 


Authorized  B'  act  of  5St«  united  Siates  Congdess    , 
xecutive  committee  of  international  juht  on  award 


,f  "•' 


9TLVCSTER  FARRELL.  Sechetart 

Office.  Administration  Bloc  kooms  33  to  35 
Exposition  Grounds 


PORTLAND.  Oregon.  Oct.  9th,  1905. 


Mr.  F.  w.  Rogers, 

c/o  Malleable  Iron  Range  Co.'s  Booth. 
Manufactures  Building, 

Lewis  k   Clark  Fair,  Portland. 
Dear  Sir: 

I  am  in  receipt  of  your  letter  of  thanks  and  appreciation 
in  receiving  the  gold  medal,  (highest  award)  on  Monarch  Malleable 
Ranges. 

It  may  please  you  to  know,  we  the  jury,  awarded  the  gold 
medal  on  first  ballot  and  had  there  been  any  higher  prize  offered, 
the  Monarch  Range  would  certainly  have  received  it. 

We  found  the  Monarch,  the  best  finished  and  best  construct- 
ed Range  with  more  special  features  than  any  other  Range  on  exhibit- 


ion. 


Jury  on  Stoves  and 
Ranges 


^^ 


/ti/tt^ 


32 


THE  RANGE  THAT  SAVES 


MONARCH 

COOK     BOOK 


Kitchen -tested  Recipes 
for  Every  -  day    Use 


By 
HELEN    MAR     THOMSON 


Price  $1.00 


Published  hy 

MALLEABLE  IRON   RANGE  CO. 

Beaver    Dam  Wisconsin 


JLiSHARY  o^CONGRKS? 
Two  CoDies  Rweived 

AU^  16   1906 

CU3S  'CL  ^YuXc.  No. 
COPY     B. 


Copyright  1906 

by 

MALLEABLE  IRON  RANGE  CO. 


v6 


-t^'^ 

^       ^^. 


INTRODUCTORY 

To  make  an  unprejudiced,  representative  Cook  Book,  filled  with 
practical,  reliable  recipes,  reasonably  economical,  yet  thoroughly 
modern,  presenting  a  well  balanced  diet,  suitable  for  every  day  as 
well  as  for  special  occasions — that  has  been  the  object  in  preparing 
this  -600k  Book. 

The  information  has  been  drawn  from  the  very  best  authorities 
and  from  experience-  Many  of  these  recipes,  not  to  be  found  in 
any  other  book,  are  likely  to  become  family  favorites.  There  are 
old  favorites  from  everywhere,  making  this  collection  a  rare  and 
valuable  one. 

Recipes  by  Fannie  M.  Farmer  are  quoted  from  her  "Boston 
Cooking  School  Cook  Book;"  those  by  Mrs.  Janet  McKenzie 
Hill  are  from  her  own  Cook  Book  and  from  her  "Boston  Cooking 
School  Magazine;"  those  by  Mrs.  E,  E.  Kellogg,  A.  M,,  are  from 
her  Vegetarian  Cook  Book,  "Science  in  the  Kitchen." 

While  this  book  has  been  compiled  with  a  view  to  giving 
reliable  recipes,  without  regard  to  apparatus,  housewives  will  find 
their  results  far  more  satisfactory  if  a  Monarch  Range  be  used, 
owing  largely  to  its  responsiveness  to  regulation,  enabling  the 
housewife  to  get  promptly  just  the  amount  of  heat  required  for 
the  food  she  is  preparing. 

Success  in  cooking  very  largely  depends  upon  right  heat  and 
right  regulation  of  heat,  sometimes  starting  with  a  moderate  oven, 
for  instance,  as  for  bread,  increasing  the  heat  for  final  baking; 
sometimes  beginning  with  a  quick  fire,  as  for  a  meat  roast,  con- 
tinuing with  moderated  heat. 

Those  who  need  and  enjoy  the  best  but  cannot  afford  the  most 
costly,  will  value  this  book.     To  them  it  is  heartily  dedicated. 

Helen  Mar  Thomson. 


36  THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


CONTENTS. 

Chapter. 

Introductory  I 

Foods— What  to   Eat  and  Why II 

Cook  by  Rule — The  Chemistry  of  Cooking Ill 

Menus — Color  Effects — Diet  Balance IV 

The  Model  Kitchen V 

Soups  and  Soup  Making VI 

Soup  Garnishes VII 

Fish VIII 

Salt  Fish IX 

Fish  Fragments X 

Oysters XI 

Meats XII 

Poultry  and  Game XIII 

Garnishes  and  Sauces XIV 

Vegetables XV 

Salads XVI 

Nuts XVII 

Pastry XVIII 

Puddings XIX 

Cold  Desserts  , XX 

Pudding  Sauces   XXI 

Frozen  Desserts XXII 

Cake  and  Gingerbread XXIII 

Frostings  and  Fillings XXIV 

Cookies  and  Fancy  Cakes XXV 

Bread !  XXVI 

Batters,  Rolls,  Breakfast  Cakes '.  XXVII 

Sandwiches XXVIII 

Cereals XXIX 

Eggs XXX 

Beverages XXXI 

Fruits XXXII 

Cooked  Fruits  XXXIII 

Canning  and  Preserving XXXIV 

Jellies   and   Marmalades XXXV 

Fruit  Juices  XXXVI 

Pickles XXXVII 

Confectionery XXXVIII 

For  Invalids XXXIX 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK.  37 

II. 
FOODS— What  to  Eat  and  Why 

"The  ideal  diet  is  that  combination  of  foods  which,  while  imposing  the  least 
burden  on  the  body,  supplies  it  with  exactly  sufficient  material  to  meet  its  wants." 

Disregard  for  this  standard  will  surely  prevent  the  best  development  of  our 
powers — and   unnecessarily   impoverishes   the  purse. 

While  in  most  foods  some  waste  is  unavoidable,  the  loss  in  cost  can  be  dimin- 
ished by  buying  those  kinds  on  which  there  is  least  waste,  and  by  carefully 
utilizing  portions  often  thrown  away  but  which  contain  considerable  nutrition. 

The  chief  sources  of  waste  are:  Eating  more  than  can  be  utilized  by  the 
body — the  American  tendency  is  to  overeat,  serving  more  than  can  be  eaten  and 
not  utilizing  the  portions  left;  wasting  in  preparation — by  thick  parings  of  fruits 
and  vegetables,  or  throwing  away  bones  and  meat  trimmings  which  contain  nutri- 
tive ingredients.  Many  good  bones  and  trimmings  (which  you  have  paid  for)  are 
left  on  the  butcher's  block,  and  he  often  sells  them  again  for  soups  and  stews. 

To  replace  costly  food  sometimes  badly  cooked,  by  cheaper  food  well  cooked,  is 
important   for   both   health   and    purse. 

Diet  should  be  varied  and  well  balanced.  Each  menu  should  be  planned  with 
a  view  to  furnishing  the  right  proportions  of  all  the  nutrients  needed  for  the 
body;  the  food  should  be  prepared  with  neatness  and  care  and  daintily  served 
upon  a  clean,  neatly  laid  table. 

Foods  must  be  selected  with  three  main  objects. 

The  appetite  must  be  stimulated;  protein  compounds  must  be  furnished  for 
making  blood,  tissues,  muscle  and  bone;  and  there  must  be  carbohydrates  and 
fats  to   supply  energy   and  warmth. 

Protein  is  the  great  building  material  and  the  everyday  diet  usually  contains 
too  little  of  it. 

The  less  expensive  cuts  of  meat,  such  as  the  round  of  beef  and  stew  meat,  are 
fully  as  nutritious  as  the  more  expensive  cuts  and  usually  more  so.  Fish,  milk, 
beans,  peas  and  oatmeal  are  the  other  famous  tissue  builders.  Do  not  overlook 
these    inexpensive   but   valuable    foods. 

The  starches,  sugars  and  other  carbohydrates  and  all  fats  will  furnish  the 
heat  and  energy  required.  The  average  person  gets  enough  of  these.  The  house- 
wife should  pay  particular  attention  to  supplying  the  tissue  builders  and  to  making 
her  table  attractive,  that  the  appetite  may  always  be  tempted. 

Salads  and  garnishes,  however  simple,  greatly  aid  in  attractiveness  which  is 
vitally  important.  Things  which  please  the  palate  stimulate  the  flow  of  digestive 
juices  and  an  attractive  diet  pleases  the  aesthetic  sense.  Refinement  in  food  habits 
is  as  desirable  as  in  other  phases  of  our  daily  life. 

Soups  are  chiefly  useful  as  stimulants.  They  help  to  create  appetite  and  start 
the  digestive  juices  preparatory  to  receiving  and  digesting  the  solid  foods.  Soups 
are  rendered  more  nutritious  by  the  addition  of  vegetables  and  cubes  of  meat. 

Always  remember  that  with  a  varied  diet  it  is  easier  to  secure  the  propear 
proportions  of  protein  to  fats  and  carbohydrates. 

Diflferent  persons  are  differently  constituted  with  respect  to  the  kinds  of  food 
they  can  best  digest,  while  some  occupations  create  demands  for  food  quite  dif- 
ferent from  that  required  for  other  work.  Those  exposed  to  cold,  or  whose  work 
calls  for  great  bodily  activity  and  strong  muscles  require  not  only  the  proteins 
for  nutrition  and  muscle  but  an  extra  supply  of  carbohydrates  and  fats  to  supply 
energy  and  warmth. 

Those  who  are  indoors  or  inactive,  require  moderate  nutrition  and  very  mod- 
erate quantities  of  fat  producers;  otherwise  the  fat  will  simply  be  stored  in  the 
body  and  will  become  a  useless  burden. 


38 THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 

Brain  workers  require  the  best  of  nutrition  and  variety  of  food,  should  exercise 
as  much  as  possible  and  need  a  liberal  supply  of  fats  and  carbohydrates  to  offset 
nervousness.     A  little   fat  is   good   for   them. 

The  food  should  suit  the  individual  and  his  or  her  needs.  The  housewife 
should  observe  what  foods  agree  with  the  different  members  of  her  flock,  should 
encourage  their  eating  such  foods  and  should  discourage  the  others,  planning  her 
menus  accordingly.  Every  person  may  learn  from  experience  what  food  agrees 
with  him  and  what  does  not. 

PROTEIN  COMPOUNDS. 

The  foods  richest  in  protein  compounds,  also  known  as  nitrogenous  foods,  are 
as  follows  (those  in  italic  are  best  of  all) : 

Rib  rolls  and  round  of  beef. 

Stew  meat,   especially  the  neck. 

Dried,  salted  and  smoked  beef. 

Veal. 

Chicken  and  fowl. 

Fresh  cod. 

Salt  cod. 

Halibut. 

Mackerel. 

Shad  roe. 

Smoked  Herring. 

Salmon. 

Sardines. 

Clams. 

Oysters. 

Eggs. 

Milk    (unskimmed). 

Cheese. 

Entire  wheat  flour. 

Whole  wheat  breakfast  foods. 

Graham  flour. 

Wheat  flour. 

Oatmeal  and  all  oat  breakfast  foods. 

Barley  and  barley  foods. 

Dried  beans  and  peas  and 

All  beans  and  peas   (fresh  or  dried). 

Spinach. 

Dandelion  and  all   "greens." 

Water  Cress. 

Almonds. 

Peanuts. 

CARBOHYDRATES. 
The  chief  carbohydrates  (which  make  fat  and  thus  produce  energy  and  warmth) 
are: 

Wheat  flour  and  wheat  breakfast  foods. 

Entire  wheat  flour  and  foods. 

Graham  flour. 

Macaroni,   vermicelli,    etc. 

Buckwheat  flour. 

■Rye  flour. 

Corn  meal. 

Oat  breakfast  foods. 

Rice. 

Tapioca. 

Starch. 

Bread  of  all  kinds. 

Cake. 

Crackers. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK.  39 

Beans. 
Corn. 
Peas. 
Potatoes. 

FATS. 

Fats  are  derived  directly  from   the   following  and  similar  products: 

Fat  meats. 

Goose. 

Butter. 

Milk. 

Cream. 

Cheese. 

Nuts. 

Chocolate. 

Cocoa. 
Pork,  of  course,  contains  a  large  amount  of  fat,  but  it  is  not  included  in  above 
table  and  has  not  received  great  attention  in  this  book  because,  while  compara- 
tively inexpensive,  it  contains  less  nutrition  in  proportion  to  cost  than  other  meats,  ' 
it  is  difficult  to  digest  and  is,  more  than  any  other  meat,  liable  to  be  unwhole- 
some, either  from  unfit  animals,  careless  killing  and  handling  or  on  account  of 
germs  contained   in  it. 

Bacon  and  ham,  when  thoroughly  cooked,  are  the  most  nutritious  and  the  safest 
forms   of   pork. 

HEALTHFUL  ACCESSORIES. 

All  "greens,"  such  as  asparagus,  spinach,  dandelion,  beet  tops,  cowslip  leaves, 
etc.  (cooked),  and  lettuce,  celery,  green  onions,  parsley,  "sour  grass,"  nasturtium, 
etc.  (uncooked),  many  of  which  may  be  had  for  the  gathering,  are  valuable,  not 
only  as  appetizers,  but  in  "toning  up"  the  system.  They  are  not,  however,  highly 
nutritive.  Asparagus,  spinach,  dandelion  and  cowslip  are  noted  for  their  bene- 
ficial effect  upon  both  liver  and  kidneys.  Onions,  either  boiled  or  green  onions 
eaten  with  salt,  should  have  place  on  the  table  once  a  week.  They  are  the 
regular  Saturday  night  vegetable  in  many  well  regulated  homes. 

FRUITS. 

Do  not  overlook  the  fruit,  ,/hich  should  be  eaten  as  the  first  thing  for  break- 
fast, before  the  breakfast  food.  Fruit  helps  wonderfully  in  keeping  the  system 
in  good  order.  Its  acids  stimulate  the  flow  of  digestive  juices  and,  most  impor- 
tant of  all,  stimulate  the  bowels  to  healthful  activity.  There  is  nothing  better 
than  a  baked  apple  or  a  dish  of  prunes  cooked  with  a  bit  of  lemon.  In  the  spring, 
steamed  or  stewed  pieplant  is  pleasant  and  healthful. 

WINTER  AND  SUMMER  DIET. 

In  winter  more  carbohydrates  and  fats  are  needed,  to  supply  warmth,  although 
plenty  of  proteids  are  also  needed,  by  those  who  labor. 

In  summer,  use  the  fats  and  carbohydrates  sparingly.  Patronize  the  protein 
compounds  liberally.  They  also  furnish  some  fats,  enough  for  summer  needs, 
except  for  those  who  do  hard  manual  labor.  Use  the  fruits  liberally.  Sweet 
berries  with  bread  and  milk  make  a  wholesome  summer  diet.  Avoid  pastries, 
heavy  puddings  and  foods  fried  in  fats,  in  summer  time.  They  are  too  heating. 
Cold  desserts,  especially  those  made  with  gelatine  and  containing  fruits,  are 
wholesome  and  refreshing. 

WATER. 

Drink  little  water  at  meals.  A  glassful  an  hour  before  eating  or  two  hours 
afterward  is  best;  also  take  a  glassful,  either  hot  or  cold,  with  a  bit  of  salt  in  it 
if  desired,  on  getting  up  in  the  morning,  and  drink  a  glass  of  water  before  retiring. 

Drink  plenty  of  good  water. 

Avoid  ice  water  in  summer. 


40  THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 

in. 

Cook  by  Rale — The  Chemistry  of  Cookingf 

She  who  cooks  by  rule  need  seldom  have  a  failure. 

Even  those  "natural  born  cooks,"  who  usually  "guess  at  it"  and  usually  make 
good  things,  may  be  wasting  good  materials  in  a  way  they  little  dream. 

There  is  a  wonderful  law  of  definite  proportions  by  which  substances  always 
combine  in  the  same  definite  proportions. 

All  good  recipes  require  that  just  the  right  amount  be  used,  for  success.  Any 
more  than  is  needed  is  absolute  waste. 

Especially  is  this  true  of  baking  powder,  for  instance.  A  certain  amount  is 
required  to  raise  a  given  amount  of  dough.  Combination  with  other  substances, 
under  heat,  breaks  the  baking  powder  up  -into,  usually,  water,  common  salt  and 
carbon  dioxide,  the  gas  which,  in  expanding  to  escape,  makes  the  dough  "light." 
The  water  and  salt  remain  and  are  harmless.  But  if  more  baking  powder  is  used 
than  the  dough  requires,  the  extra  amount  is  not  broken  up  into  the  escaping  gas 
and  the  harmless  salt  and  water,  and  in  eating  the  cake  or  biscuit,  we  must  eat 
a  chemical  which,  in  some  cheap  baking  powders,  is  really  harmful.  Beside,  this 
extra  amount  does  no  good  in  the  cake  and  is  wasted. 

Cook  by  rule  and  have  no  failures j  no  waste. 

These  are  such  good  reasons  for  measuring  carefully  and  for  following  good 
recipes  that  we  will  not  go  farther  into  the  complex  chemistry  of  this  interesting 
subject. 

Another  point,  however,  with  which  the  chemistry  of  cooking  is  concerned  is 
the  question  of  heat. 

Heat  helps  chemical  action,  but  some  things  require  much  heat,  some  require 
a  little,  some  need  quick  heat  and  some  long,  slow  cooking. 

Albumens  and  proteids,  those  substances  which  are  so  important  in  building 
and  maintaining  the  tissues  and  strength  of  the  body,  are  coagulated  and  made 
almost  insoluble  by  too  quick  heat,  while  fats  are  broken  up  by  it  and  are  made 
hard  to  digest  while  delicate  flavors  are  thus  destroyed. 

One  great  trouble  with  American  cooking  today  is  that  food  is  cooked  too 
quickly,  is  too  often  burned  and  is  almost  always  injured  in  flavor  and  digest- 
ibility by  being  cooked  too  quickly  over  too  hot  a  fire.  Especially  is  this  true 
where  gas  is  used. 

Too  hot  a  fire  destroys  the  delicate  flavors  which  make  food  most  delicious — 
give  the  cook  no  opportunity  for  "bringing  out"  the  savory  qualities  of  meat,  of 
giving  just  the  right  delicate  brown  to  breads  and  cakes,  or  of  developing  that 
mysterious,  subtle  flavor  in  the  oatmeal  which  makes  it  "truly  Scotch." 

The  Scotch,  by  the  way,  depend  mostly  upon  the  open  fire,  even  now;  our 
grandmothers,  too,  understood  the  art  of  cooking  and  had  good  means  for  apply- 
ing it  with  the  even  heat  of  their  brick  ovens.  Few  are  the  modern  ovens  which 
can  equal  those  crude  but  skillfully  handled  ovens  of  long  ago. 

The  ideal  stove  should  give  a  steady,  controllable  heat,  should  be  quick  to  respond  to  dampers 
and  drafts,  giving  an  even,  moderate  heat,  most  of  the  time,  fully  capable  of  throwing  much  heat 
just  when  it  is  needed  and  of  permitting  the  temperature  to  be  reduced  in  a  few  moments,  when 
desired. 

The  art  of  cooking,  remember,  is  largely  the  art  of  producing  flavors  which 
create  appetite  and  please  the  palate,  and  of  so  preparing  the  different  foods  that 
the  right  changes  take  place  in  them. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK.  41 

IV, 
Menus — Colof  Effects — Diet  Balance 

The  following  menus  are  given  not  so  much  to  present  extraordinary  combina- 
tions as  to  give  examples  of  menus  which  are  well  balanced  and  which  present 
appetizing  and  wholesome  combinations  of  foods  which  are  seasonable  and  are 
available  by  average  people  in  average  localities. 

Note  also  the  color  combinations.  The  French  chef  always  thinks  of  the 
colors  of  the  foods  he  will  combine.  Tomato  soup,  corned  beef,  sliced  tomatoes  and 
strawberries,  might  well  be  called  a  red  lunch  and  it  would  not  be  an  appetizing 
one.  Soup,  vegetables,  meat,  salad  and  dessert  should  all  be  thoughtfully  planned 
with  a  view  to  producing  attractive  color  combinations  which  harmonize  yet  lend 
the  contrast  which  gives  zest  to  appetite. 

In  planning  the  menu,  always  remember  relative  nutritive  values  of  foods, 
endeavoring  in  summer  to  give  sufficient  nutrition  without  over-heating  the  blood 
by  too  many  fats,  sugars  and  carbohydrates;  while  in  winter  the  diet  should  be 
both  substantial  and  heat  producing  for  ample  supply  of  energy  and  body  warmth. 


For  Special  Occasions 

THANKSGIVING. 
(New   England  Menu.) 

Tomato  Soup  with  Croutons 

Roast  Turkey,   New  England  Dressing 

Cranberry  Sauce  Celery 

Squash  Boiled  Potatoes  Boiled  Onions 

Chicken  Pie  Sweet  Pickles 

Cracker    Pudding 

Pumpkin  Pie  American  Cheese  Apple  Pie 

Fruit  Cake  Bon  Bons 

,  Fresh    Fruit 

Nuts  and  Raisins. 
Coffee. 


CHRISTMAS. 

Green  Pea  Soup  with  Whipped  Cream 

Olives  Salted  Pecans  Celery 

Roast   Beef  with   Yorkshire   Pudding 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes  Mashed  White  Potatoes 

Cauliflower  with  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Canton   Sherbet 

Roast   Duck  or  Goose 

Apple   Sauce 

Sardine  Salad  Cheese  Straws 

English  Plum  Pudding 

Brandy  Sauce  or  Sweet  Cream 

Mince  Pie  Custard  Pie 

Carmel  Ice  Cream  Sunshine  Cake 

Candied  Orange  Peel  Bon  Bons 

Cream  Cheese  Crackers 

Black   Coffee 


42  THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


SUNDAY   EVENING  TEA. 
I. 

Peanut  Sandwiches  Cold  Tongue 

Hot   Tea   Rolls 

Olives.  Tomato   Preserves 

Individual    Strawberry   Short   Cake 

Fruit    Cake  Ginger    Crisp 

Nabisco  Wafers  Canton  Ginger 

Tea 


SUNDAY   EVENING  TEA. 
II 

Sardine   Sandwiches  Tea   Rolls 

Veal    Loaf 

Pineapple   Omelet 

Olives     Canton  Sherbet     Salted  Pecans 

Fruit   Cake  Sunshine   Cake 

Monsoon  Tea 


SUNDAY   EVENING  TEA. 
Ill 

Pecan    Sandwiches 

Cold    Roast   Beef  Fresh    Rolls 

Sweet    Cucumber   Pickles 

Currant  Jelly      Canton  Ice     Sponge  Cake 

Fruit    Cake 

Butternut   Creams  Nabisco   Wafers 

Tea 


SUNDAY  DINNER 

Tomato    Soup    with    Croutons 

Roast   Chicken  Mashed   Potatoes 

Cauliflower  Cucumber   Pickle 

Grape  Juice 

Water  Cress  Salad  with  French  Dressing 

Lemon  Souffle   Pudding 

Crackers  and  Cheese 

Coffee  Canton  Ginger 


THE    MONARCH   COOK    BOOK. 


43 


SPRING— Menus  for  a  Week 

SUNDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges 

Ham  and  Eggs         Parker   House  Rolls 

Fried   Corn   Meal   Mush 

New  Maple  Syrup 

Coflfee 


DINNER. 

Rolled  Ribs  of  Beef  -  Brown  Gravy 

Dandelion   Greens 

Potatoes  Browned  with  the  Meat 

Apple    and    Pecan    Salad 

Lemon  Souffle 
Unfermented  Grape  Juice 


MONDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Steamed  Rhubarb  Cream  of  Wheat 

Omelet  with  Nuts 

Hashed  Brown   Potatoes 

Zwieback 

Coffee 

DINNER. 

Split  Pea  Soup  with   Croutons 

Cold     Sliced     Beef  -  French     Mustard 

Macaroni  Baked  with  Cheese 

Mashed   Potatoes 

Cold    Dandelion    Greens 

Cocoanut   Souffle 


THURSDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges  and  Bananas  Sliced 
Barley    Food 
Pickled  Tripe  in  Batter 

Creamed    Potatoes 
Triscuit 
Coffee 


Cold  Corned  Beef,  Sliced 

Drawn    Butter    Sauce 

Buttered  Parsnips  Boiled  Potatoes 

Cabbage  and  Nut  Salad. 

Baked   Indian   Pudding 


TUESDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 


FRIDAY. 


Sliced    Bananas    and    Cream 

Barley   Food 

Beef  Minced  in  Butter     Baked  Potatoes 

Dry   Toast 

Coffee 


Veal   Cutlets   Breaded  -  Tomato    Sauce 

Creamed   Turnips  Boiled   Potatoes 

Water   Cress   Salad 

Coffee  Jelly  with  Cream 


BREAKFAST. 

Prunes  Stewed  with  Lemon 

Cream    of    Wheat 

Scrambled    Eggs  Creamed    Potatoes 

Corn  Meal  Mufifins 

Coffee 

DINNER. 

Dried    Green    Pea    Soup 

Planked    Roe    Shad  -  Potato    Border 

Buttered    Beets  Shad   Roe 

Cress  and  Egg   Salad 

Tapioca   Custard   in   Cups 


WEDNESDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 


Baked  Apples 

Cracked   Wheat 

Cottage    Pie         Graham    Gems 

Coffee 

DINNER. 

Beefsteak         Creamed    Carrots 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Lettuce  with   French   Dressing 

Rhubarb  Pie  -  Swiss  Cheese 

Coffee 


SATURDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Strawberries,  with  Oat  Meal  and  Cream 

Fish    Croquettes 

German   Fried   Potatoes 

Rye   Meal   Muffins 

Coffee 

DINNER. 

Braised    Ox    Tongue  -  White    Sauce 

Asparagus  Mashed   Potatoes 

Strawberry    Short   Cake 


44 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


SUMMER— Menus  for  a  Week 


SUNDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  Peaches  and  Cream 

Currant  Jelly   Omelet 

Crisp  Bacon  Sliced   Cucumbers 

Moravian  Coffee  Cake 

Coffee 


MONDAY. 


Roast    Veal 
Green  Peas  and  New  Potatoes  in  Cream 
Sliced  Tomatoes 

Milk  Sherbet 
Sunshine  Cake 


THURSDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Red  Currants  with  Sugar 

Cracked  Wheat  with  Cream 
Veal    Browned    in    Butter 

Poached  Eggs 

Whole  Wheat  Fruit  Loaf 

Coffee 

DINNER. 

Veal  Croquettes  -  Parsley  Garnished 

Peas  Reheated  Boiled  Potatoes 

Lettuce  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Irish  Blanc  Mange 

Aunt   Mary's    Fruit   Cake 

TUESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Blue  Berries  and  Grape  Nuts  with 

Cream 

Broiled    Tomatoes    on    Shredded   Wheat 

Biscuit 

White   Sauce 

One-Egg   Muffins 

Coffee 

DINNER. 

Smoked  Beef  Sliced 

Stringless    Beans   in    Milk 
New  Potatoes  Creamed 
Peach  Puff  Pudding  with  Peach  Foam- 
ing Sauce 


WEDNESDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  Pineapple 

Malta  Vita 

Asparagus  on  Toast 

Whole  Wheat  Puffs 

Coffee 


Chicken    Stew   with    Dumplings 

Potatoes    Boiled    with    the    Chicken 

Lettuce  Salad 

Water    Melon,    Chinese    Style 


BREAKFAST. 

Red   Raspberries  and   Cream 

Apitezo 

Chipped  Beef  in  Cream    Baked  Potatoes 

Blueberry    Gems 

Coffee 

DINNER. 

Chicken  Salad  Tea  Biscuit 

Sliced  Tomato  on  Heart  Lettuce 

Midsummer  Dream 


FRIDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Plums  Egg-0-See 

Fried  Trout  and  Potato   Cakes 

Sliced   Tomato     Zwieback 

Coffee 


Fresh    Fish    Boiled  -  Sauce    Hollandaise 

Summer  Squash         Potato  Salad 

Raspberry  Whip 


SATURDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Gooseberry    Sauce   on    Shredded    Wheat 
Biscuit 
Ham  and  Eggs 

Corn  Muffins 
Coffee 

DINNER. 

Veal  Cutlet  -  Brown  Sauce 

Boiled  Sweet  Corn  Baked  new  Potatoes 

Lettuce 

Steamed  Blueberry   Pudding 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


45 


AUTUMN— Menus  for  a  Week 

SUNDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cantaloupe  Melon 

Codfish    Balls  Boiled    Eggs 

Nut  Muffins,   Corn  Meal  Griddle   Cakes 

Coffee 


Tomato     Soup    without     Stock 
Whipped  Cream 
Roast  Leg  of  Lamb         Succotash 

Potato  Balls,  Creamed 
Apples  in  Syrup 


MONDAY. 


THURSDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Concord   Grapes         Barley    Food 

Eggs  in  Tomato  Cases 

Triscuit 

Coffee 


BREAKFAST. 

Lemon   Apples       Corn  Meal   Mush 

Minced     Veal     in     Milk     on     Shredded 

Wheat  Biscuit 

Dry    Toast 

Coffee 


Scalloped   Lamb         Stewed  Tomato 

Baked  Potato 

Cottage  Pudding  -  Foaming  Sauce 


Club    Steak         Brussels    Sprouts 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  Lettuce 

Apple  Dumplings  -  Hard  Sauce 


TUESDAY. 


FRIDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 


Apricots 

Graham  Mush  Peanut  Omelet 

Grape  Butter     Wheat  Muffins 

Coffee 


DINNER. 

New  England  Dinner 
Lemon  Snow 


BREAKFAST. 

Cooked  Pears         Barley  Food 

Codfish   and   Cream 

Triscuit 

Fried     Corn     Meal     Mush     and     Maple 

Syrup 

Coffee 

DINNER. 

Scalloped   Oysters         Stewed   Tomato 

Saratoga  Chips 

Pineapple  Omelet 


WEDNESDAY. 


SATURDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 


Pears 

Cracked  Wheat 

Vegetable  Hash         Sweet  Pickle 

Dry   Toast 

Coffee 


BREAKFAST. 


Grapes  Cracked  Wheat 

Meat  Balls  Potato  a  la  Delmonico 

Graham  Toast,  Buttered 

Coffee 


DINNER. 

Veal  Pot  Pie 
Egg  Plant  Fried  in  Batter 

Boiled  Potatoes 
Chestnut   Souffle 


Pork  Tenderloin,  Frenched 

Boiled  Onions 
Special   Baked  Potato 
Apple  Charlotte 


46 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


WINTER— Menus  for  a  Week 

SUNDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grape    Fruit 

Steel   Cut   Oat   Meal   and    Cream 

Broiled    Finnan    Haddie 

Dry   Toast  Orange  Marmalade 

Buckwheat  Cakes  and  Maple  Honey 

Coffee 


DINNER. 

Tomato  Soup  with  Whipped  Cream 
Chicken  in  a  Snow  Storm 

Spinach,   French  Way 
Browned  Sweet  Potatoes 
Banana  Ring  Pudding 


MONDAY. 


THURSDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges 

Steel  Cut  Oat  Meal 

Minced  Chicken  and   Poached  Eggs 

Potato  Cakes  Coffee  Cake 

Coffee 


BREAKFAST. 

Prunes  with  Lemon 

Cracked  Wheat 

Beef   Hash         Popovers 

Doughnuts 

Coffee 


Chicken    Cutlets,    Boston    Style 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Beet   and    Cabbage    Salad. 

Apple  Snow         Macaroons 


TUESDAY. 


Beef  Croquettes         "June"  Peas 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Fried    Apples 

Hot  Cornstarch  Pudding 


FRIDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 


Baked  Apples 
Cream  of  Wheat 

Bacon   and 
Corn   Cake 
Coffee 


BREAKFAST. 

Oranges    and    Bananas    Sliced 
Steel  Cut  Oat  Meal 
Eggs  Peanut  Omelet  Graham  Gems 

Wheat  Cakes  Peach   Marmalade 

Coffee 


Scotch  Broth 

Lamb  Chops  Mashed  Potatoes 

Orange  Fritters 

Pumpkin  Pie  Cheese 


DINNER. 

Boiled  Salmon  -  White  Sauce 

Baked  Hubbard  Squash,  Boiled  Potatoes 

Apple  and   Nut   Salad 

Prune  Souffle 


WEDNESDAY. 


SATURDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 

Dried    Apple    Sauce 
Steel    Cut    Oat   Meal 
Salt  Mackerel  in  Cream 

Baked  Potatoes 
Currant  Buns 
Coffee 


Pot  Roast  of   Beef  Cauliflower 

Sweet  Potatoes  Lettuce  Salad 

Snow  Flake  Baked  Rice 


BREAKFAST. 

Baked  Apples  Barley  Food. 

Salmon  Browned  in  Butter 

Dry   Toast 

Coffee 


Boston   Baked   Beans  Brown 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 
Apple  Tapioca 


Bread 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK.  47 


The  Model  Kitchen 

A  northwestern  exposure  is  usually  considered  the  more  desirable  for  a 
kitchen,  as  it  gives  a  cool  kitchen  in  the  morning  when  work  is  to  be  done. 
This  also  coincides  with  the  preference  for  the  east  front  for  the  house  and 
southern  exposure  for  the  living  rooms. 

For  the  average  family  a  large  kitchen  is  preferable  and  in  the  plan  here 
given,  the  kitchen  is  15  by  IS  feet.  It  could  be  12  by  12,  if  preferred,  but  in 
many  homes  the  kitchen  is  used  as  the  everyday  dining  room  or  for  sewing,  and 
should  not  be  crowded. 

In  the  design  here  given,  note  the  few  steps  required  between  the  stove,  the 
sink  and  cooking  table,  and  the  pantry,  where  the  greater  portion  of  the  kitchen 
work  is  to  be  done. 

First  of  all,  the  sink  should  be  high  enough  to  permit  washing  the  dishes 
without  bending.  What  housewife  has  not  wondered  why  builders  insist  upon 
setting  the  sink  six  inches  too  low?  Insist  that  the  sink  shall  be  36  inches  high 
to  the  top  of  its  rim.  Being  about  six  inches  deep,  this  brings  the  bottom  of  the 
sink  about  30  inches  from  the  floor.  If  sink  legs  cannot  be  obtained  long  enough 
to  permit  setting  the  sink  as  high  as  this,  the  sink  can  be  placed  upon  a  six-inch 
platform  wholly  enclosed,  and  of  the  same  material  as  the  floor. 

The  setting  of  sinks  too  low,  is  responsible  for  the  breaking  of  many  dishes, 
as  the  faucets  must  be  proportionately  placed,  and  are  so  low  that  in  putting 
dishes  in  and  out  of  the  pan,  the  faucets  are  directly  in  the  way  and  dishes  are 
often  nicked  and  broken  by  coming  in  contact  with  them.  If  the  sink,  and 
therefore  faucets,  are  set  six  inches  higher,  the  latter  are  not  in  the  way. 

The  sink  should  have  two  drain  boards,  the  one  on  the  left  for  dishes  to  be 
washed,  and  the  one  on  the  right  for  draining  them. 

The  cooking  table  at  the  right  is  convenient  for  receiving  the  dishes  when 
wiped.  The  slide  over  the  cooking  table  also  permits  setting  the  wiped  dishes 
directly  through   into  the   pantry,    ready  to  be  put   up   into   their   places. 

Over  the  left  drain  board  should  be  a  small  closet,  preferably  built  in,  for 
soaps,  silver,  brass  and  stove  polishes,  etc.  Back  of  the  stove  and  across  the 
front  of  the  chimney,  a  shelf  about  on  a  level  with  the  eyes,  is  attractive  and 
convenient.  Just  beneath  this  shelf,  near  the  sink,  should  be  a  small  drying  rack 
(for  dish  towels),  which,  when  not  in  use,  can  be  swung  back  under  the  shelf. 
At  the  left  of  the  chimney  should  be  a  closet  for  the  broom,  dust  pan,  shovel, 
carpet  sweeper,  scrub  pail,  etc.  In  the  corner,  at  the  left  of  the  broom  closet, 
should  be  two  large  hooks  screwed  into  the  top  of  the  wainscoting  upon  which 
the  clothes  bars  may  be  folded  and  hung  when  not  in  use.  This  leaves  the 
clothes  bars  about  six  inches  from  the  floor,  and  enables  the  neat  housewife  to 
sweep  the  corner  without  the  inconvenience  of  moving  the  rack  each  time. 

Now,  let  us  go  back  to  the  working  corner.  The  cooking  table  should  be 
covered  preferably  with  zinc,  nailed  neatly  to  the  edges.  This  is  non-absorbent 
and  can  be  kept  immaculately  clean.  The  next  best  thing  is  a  covering  of  oil 
cloth  cut  just  large  enough  to  tack  over  the  edges  of  the  table. 

The  pantry  door  is  usually  open  and  upon  the  inside  of  it  may  be  hung  the 
roller  towel,  which  is  out  of  sight  when  the  door  is  closed.  Let  this  towel  always 
be  kept  fresh.  Just  inside  the  pantry  door,  on  the  right,  are  compartments  for 
flour  barrels,  above  which  is  a  broad  shelf  and  over  this  may  be  a  cupboard  with 
doors,  for  cereals  such  as  breakfast  foods,  tapioca,  rice,  corn  meal,  rye,  graham, 
etc.,  also  for  the  spices,  condiments,  baking  powder,  cooking  soda,  flavoring  ex- 
tracts, coffee,  tea,,  etc.  Across  the  entire  side  of  the  pantry  should  be  shelves 
extending  to  the  ceiling,  the  bottom  one  being  on  a  level  with  the  broad  shelf  over 
the  flour  barrels.  Under  this  bottom  shelf  should  be  a  cleat  for  strong  hooks  upon 
which  the  heavy  frying  pans,  griddles,  waffle-irons,  etc.,  may  be  hung.  At  the 
north  end  of  the  pantry  is  a  window  with  a  broad  shelf  in  front  of  it  and 
drawers  for  kitchen  linens,  such  as  dish  towels,  hand  towels,  etc.,  also  for  wrap- 
ping paper,  twine,  fruit  jar  covers,  etc.  At  the  left  as  one  faces  the  window,  may 
be  another  tier  of  shelves;  the  lower  one  to  be  not  less  than  four  or  five  feet 


48 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


Model  Kitchen  Pldn 


WINDOW 


WINDOW 


BACK       PORCH 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK.  49 

from  the  floor,  and  under  it  at  least  two  cleats  with  plenty  of  hooks  for  egg 
beaters,  can  openers,  mixing  spoons  and  similar  small  utensils,  each  to  be  hung 
always  upon  its  own  hook. 

The  door  to  the  basement  or  cellar  may  be  as  indicated,  while  just  to  the 
right  of  it  is  the  door  into  the  china  closet  which  should  be  between  the  kitchen 
and  dining  room. 

If  two  maids  are  kept,  there  should  be  a  second  sink  in  the  china  closet  or 
butler's  pantry  where  the  dining  room  girl  may  wash  the  better  china  and  silver. 
At  the  left  of  this  sink  should  be  a  drain  board.  At  the  left  of  this  should  be  a 
broad  shelf  for  serving  and  at  this  point  there  should  be  a  slide  between  the  china 
closet  and  the  kitchen  with  a  serving  table  on  the  kitchen  side.  Through  this 
slide  the  cook  may  hand  the  courses  to  the  dining  room  girl.  Over  this  serving 
shelf  in  the  china  closet,  may  be  shelves  for  china  or  for  such  utensils  as  the 
dining  room  girl  may  require.  On  the  opposite  side  of  the  china  closet  should  be 
shelves  for  china,  extending  from  floor  to  ceiling,  and  enclosed  by  sliding  glass 
doors.  A  portion  of  the  china  closet  or  butler's  pantry  should  be  partitioned  off 
for  food  supplies.  In  this  supply  closet  is  a  window  which  furnishes  fresh  air 
and  from  which  light  may  be  derived  for  the  pantry  by  a  glass  in  the  upper  half 
of  the  door  between  this  closet  and  the  china  closet. 

The  refrigerator  should  be  located  in  this  supply  closet  and  in  homes  where 
every  comfort  may  be  enjoyed,  this  refrigerator  should  be  built  in,  having  thick 
walls  insulated  against  temperature  changes,  while  the  compartment  for  ice  is 
filled  through  a  small  door  which  opens  upon  the  porch.  When  this  is  not  pos- 
sible, the  refrigerator  may  be  of  any  type  desired.  Thus  located,  it  is  well  away 
from  the  kitchen  heat  and  when  cooking  is  to  be  done,  the  butter  and  eggs 
needed  may  be  taken  from  the  refrigerator  when  the  orderly  housewife  gets  her 
supplies  ready  for  her  baking.  Nearly  all  foods  kept  in  the  refrigerator  are  des- 
tined for  the  table  or  come  from  the  table,  and  this  arrangement  will  be  found 
both  convenient  and  economical.  In  this  supply  closet  should  also  be  a  fruit 
closet  with  door  to  shut  out  the  light  and  keep  the  temperature  even.  Here 
preserves  and  cannned  fruits  m.ay  be  kept  to  excellent  advantage.  Also  the  reserve 
supply   of  cake,   cookies,    doughnuts,    bread,    etc. 

The  kitchen  arranged  as  here  suggested  will  be  found  delightfully  convenient 
and  an  enjoyable  living  room  for  the  morning  hours. 


50 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


VI 
Soups  and  Soup  Makm§f 


Soups  are  useful  chiefly  as  appetizers 
and  as  an  agreeable  means  of  utilizing 
small  portions  of  meat  and  vegetables 
which  must  otherwise  be  wasted.  Soups 
are  therefore  a  necessity  where  economy 
is  a  consideration  and  are  rendered  nu- 
tritious by  the  addition  of  cubes  of 
meat,  vegetables,  or  cereals,  such  as 
vermicelli,    macaroni,    barley,    etc. 

Soup  with  stock  may  be  made  from 
any  kind  of  meat,  or  from  several 
kinds  combined.  Fats  in  soup  enrich 
it,  the  desirable  parts  being  held  by  the 
stock,  while  the  grease  will  rise  to 
the  top  and,  when  cool,  may  be  re- 
moved in  cakes. 

Fortunatelj%  the  inexpensive  cuts  of 
meat  make  the  best  soup.  The  shin 
of  the  hind  quarter  is  a  rich  soup  bone. 
Portions  of  meat  should  be  used  as 
well  as  bone,  and  soups  should  be 
cooked  slowly,  at  low  temperature, 
that  the  goodness  may  be  thoroughly 
extracted  and  that  the  albuminoids  may 
not  be  coagulated. 

The  practice  of  keeping  a  soup  kettle 
always  upon  the  stove  is  a  very  bad 
one. 

Save  the  bits  until  enough  have 
accumulated  for  a  soup  (making  sure 
that  all  are  still  sweet),  or,  if  there 
are  good  fragments,  but  not  quite 
enough,  the  addition  of  a  veal  joint, 
cracked  open,  will  contribute  delicacy 
and   nutrition. 

Soup  stock  which  has  "jellied"  may 
be  kept  sv/eet  for  several  days.  Vege- 
tables and  cereals  should  never  be 
added  until  the  stock  is  heated  for 
serving.  Heat  only  as  much  as  will 
be  needed  and  do  not  put  that  con- 
taining vegetables  in  with  the  jellied 
reserve  supply. 

The  soup  kettle  should  be  of  some 
enameled  ware,  or,  still  better,  of  alu- 
minum, as  enamel  chips  and  when  the 
soup  stock  comes  into  contact  with 
iron,  a  chemical  action  takes  place 
which,  while  it  may  or  may  not  be 
harmful,  discolors  the  soup.  Always 
keep  the  soup  kettle  tightly  covered, 
that  the  delicate  flavors  may  remain 
in  the  soup. 


1.  HOW  TO  COOK  MEAT  FOR 
SOUP. 

After  carefully  wiping  all  meat  and 
bones  with  a  piece  of  damp  cheese 
cloth  (kept  for  the  purpose),  cut  the 
meat  into  small  pieces,  crack  open  the 
bones,  if  your  butcher  has  not  done 
it  for  you,  and  put  into  the  kettle  and 
just  cover  with  cold  water.  Allow  it 
to  stand  for  a  half  hour  or  so  before 
putting  upon  the  stove.  Then  heat 
slowly,  just  to  the  boiling  point,  skim, 
then  set  the  kettle  back  where  contents 
will  just  simmer  from  five  to  six 
hours.  Never  let  the  soup  really  boil. 
It  may  bubble  gently  on  the  back  of 
the  stove,  but  too  much  heat  coagu- 
lates the  albumens  and  makes  the 
liquid   cloudy. 

When  soup  is  made  from  left  overs, 
add  a  small  portion  of  uncooked  meat, 
or  an  uncooked  soup  bone,  to  give 
zest.  In  selecting  meat  for  soups  or 
stews,  veal  and  pork  are  often  com- 
bined, while  a  lamb  bone  gives  delicacy 
to  a  beef  stew  or  soup.  One  flavor 
should  never  prevail,  hence  the  cus- 
tom   of   using   a   variety   of   seasonings. 

The  spice  closet  should  always  con- 
tain peppercorns,  whole  cloves,  bay 
leaves,  sprigs  of  marjoram  or  thyme 
and  dried  parsley  when  the  fresh  is 
not  to  be  had.  These  spices  are  not 
expensive  and  last  a  very  long  time. 
They  should,  therefore,  be  kept  in 
glass  jars,   tightly  covered. 

2.     TO  CLARIFY  SOUP. 

The  addition  of  a  tablespoon  of 
cold  water,  while  soup  is  cooking,  facili- 
tates separation   of  scum. 

If  soup  is  not  clear  when  done,  hav- 
ing cooked  too  quickly,  perhaps  over 
too  hot  a  fire,   clarify  as  follows — 

Put  kettle  on  corner  of  range,  so 
that,  though  very  hot,  it  does  not 
boil. 

Break  into  a  sauce  pan  two  eggs, 
shells  and  all,  beat  into  H  a  pound  of 
meat  chopped  fine,  and  a  half  pint  of 
water.  Add,  while  beating,  a  quart  of 
the  stock,  then  pour  the  whole  into 
the  kettle  of  soup,  stirring  constantly. 
Allow  it  to  simmer  about  20  minutes, 
then  strain  through  a  napkin  or  double 
cheese  cloth,  placed  over  a  wire  strainer. 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


51 


3.  TO   CLEAR  A  SMALL  QUAN- 

TITY. 

A  small  quantity  of  soup  may  also 
be  cleared  with  egg  alone,  by  allowing 
one  egg  to  each  quart  of  stock. 

To  a  quart  of  stock,  in  sauce  pan, 
add  the  white  of  one  egg  slightly  beaten 
and  the  shell,  broken  small.  Stir  con- 
stantly, over  front  of  range,  to  boil- 
ing point.  Boil  a  minute  or  two,  and 
set  it  back  to  simmer  for_  15  or  20 
minutes.  Skim,  then  strain  through 
cheese  cloth  or  napkin  thrown  over  a 
wire   sieve. 

If  the  stock  needs  more  seasoning, 
season    before    clarifying. 

4.  VARIETY— HOW  OBTAINED.    , 

Many  modifications  of  soups  may  be 
made  easily  by  replacing  in  a  puree 
one  kind  of  vegetable  for  another,  by 
game  instead  of  fowl,  by  varying  the 
garnish,  the  seasoning,  and  so  on. 
The  ingenious  housewife  finds  no  dif- 
ficulty in  varying  the  daily  menu.  The 
general  rules  and  proportions,  however, 
should  be  carefully  followed,  that  good 
results  may  be  assured. 

Soups  are  divided  into  two  classes, 
the  clear  and  the  mixed,  or  thick  ones. 
Either  of  these  may  be  lean  or  fat 
soups  and  the  purees  and  cream  soups 
are   often  made  without  stock. 

Soup  stock,  being  the  foundation  of 
fat  soups,  and  being  useful  in  prepar- 
ing numerous  sauces  and  dishes,  such 
as  croquettes,  it  is  vi;ell  for  the  cook 
to  have  it  at  her  disposal,  which  is 
not  difficult  as  stock  may  be  kept 
fresh  several  days  in  an  ice  box,  an 
earthen  jar  being  the  best  container. 
In  a  very  hot,  stormy  day,  let  it  boil 
a  little  while,  to  prevent  its  souring. 
Keep  stock  in  a  narrow,  deep  dish, 
rather  than  a  shallow  one,  that  the 
"crust"  of  fat  may  cover  it,  as  this 
protection  from  the  air  helps  to  keep  it. 

A  very  good  stock  is  made  of  six 
parts  beef,  two  of  veal  and  one  of 
fowl. 

5.     BEST  SOUP  MEAT. 

The  parts  of  beef  which  are  best 
for  soup  are  the  neck  (best  for  in- 
valids), shoulder,  shin,  ribs,  flank, 
round  and  legs.  If  the  veal  is  omitted, 
be  sure  to  add  bones  containing  mar- 
row.    The  meat  must  be  very  fresh. 

When  veal  is  used,  the  shin  bone 
or  hock  is  richest  in  gelatinous  sub- 
stances. 


In  using  fowl  for  soups,  select  old 
ones,  rather  than  chicken,  for  higher 
flavor. 

6.  FAMILY  CONSOMME  OR 
STANDARD  BROTH. 

5  pounds  beef  and  bones. 
5^   veal  hock. 

1  fowl. 

2  carrots. 
Yi   turnip. 
1  onion. 
Celery. 
Peppercorns. 
Cloves. 

4  quarts  water. 

Let  cold  water  run  freely  over  bee^ 
and  veal,  to  wash  from  all  impurities. 
Place  in  a  kettle  with  cold  water  to 
cover  meat  well.  Also  add  the  onions, 
half  of  which  have  been  browned  in  a 
bit  of  butter  in  small  frying  pan.  Into 
the  other  half  stick  four  cloves.  Also 
add    six  peppercorns. 

Water  should  not  come  within  two 
inches  of  top  of  kettle.  Use  a  pot  that 
is  plenty  large.  Bring  it  slowly  to 
boiling  point  and  allow  to  boil  slowly, 
skimming  until  clear.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cold  water,  occasionally,  to 
accelerate  separation  of  scum.  When 
clear  (in  about  a  half  hour)  add  vege- 
tables freshly  pared,  and  boil  two 
hours  longer. 

Remove  the  veal,  add  the  fowl,  cut 
as  for  fricassee,  and  allow  soup  to  boil 
for  another  three  hours.  (Place  kettle 
on  corner  of  range  so  bubbling  will  take 
place  slowly  at  one  side  of  kettle  only. 
This  makes  it  easier  to  obtain  a  clear 
soup.)  When  done,  remove  top  grease 
and  strain  through  a  napkin.  Set  the 
soup  away  and  prepare  the  fowl  for 
dinner.  Braise  it  in  butter,  season  and 
serve  on  a  platter  with  boiled  rice 
piled  lightly  around  it. — (French 
Chef.) 

7.      CONSOMME. 

3  pounds  beef — poorer  part  of  round. 
1  pound  marrow  bone. 

3  pounds  knuckle  of  veal. 

1  quart   chicken   stock. 
Carrot    1 

Turnip    \  J^  cup  each  cut  into  dice. 

Celery    J 

Yz  cup  sliced  onion. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 
1  tablespoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  peppercorns. 

4  cloves. 


52 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


3  sprigs  thyme. 

1  sprig  marjoram. 

2  sprigs  parsley. 
J/2   bay  leaf. 

3  quarts  cold  water. 

Cut  beef  in  IH  inch  cubes,  put  it 
into  a  kettle  with  cold  water.  Add 
veal  cut  in  pieces,  and  the  bones.  Let 
stand  half  an  hour;  heat  slowly  to 
boiling  point  and  let  simmer  three 
hours,  removing  scum  as  it  forms  on 
top  of  kettle.  Add  quart  of  liquor  in 
which  the  fowl  was  cooked  and  sirarner 
two  hours.  Cook  carrot,  turnip,  onion 
and  celery  in  butter  five  minutes,  then 
add  to  soup  with  remaining  seasonings. 
Cook  \y2  hours,  strain;  cool  quickly, 
removing  fat,  and  clear. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 

8.      BROWN    SOUP    STOCK. 

Brown  soup  stock  is  made  as  above 
with  part  of  the  beef  and  vegetables 
browned  in  butter  or  marrow  to  give 
color.  Rinse  the  frying  pan  well  with 
the  water  in  which  balance  of  meat  has 
been  standing  in  the  soup  kettle  to 
insure  getting  all  the  delicate  flavor 
and  color  from  caramelized  pieces  ad- 
hering to   the   frying  pan. 

9.     TOMATO  BOUILLON. 

Tomato  bouillon  is  made  the  same  as 
Consomme  stock,  with  the  addition  of 
J4  can  of  tomatoes,  or  three  small  fresh 
tomatoes  with  other  vegetables. 

10.     FISH   BROTH. 

3  pounds  whitefish. 

3  pints  water. 

1  sliced  onion. 

y2    a   sliced  carrot. 

2  stocks  of  celery. 
Yo   a  bay  leaf. 

4  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Yz  a  red  pepper  pod. 

3  cloves. 
Salt. 

Cut  the  fish  in  pieces  and  add  the 
other  ingredients.  Let  boil,  then  skim 
and  simmer  about  IJ^  hours;  strain 
and  use  as  any  stock.  The  vegetables 
may  be  browned  in  butter  or  drippings, 
thus  giving  a  brown  stock.  The  head 
and  trimmings  of  fish  with  a  little 
salted  fish  are  suitable  for  soup  mak- 
ing. The  broth  may  be  clarified  for 
consomme  or  thickened  with  a  roux 
and  cream  as  for  a  cream  soup;  or  the 


flesh  may  be  passed  through  a  sieve 
and  added  to  make  fish  ^  puree.  Fish 
soups  are  garnished  with  pieces  of  vege- 
table.— (Mrs.   Janet  McKenzie  Hill.) 

11.     JULIENNE. 

2  or  3  quarts  consomme  stock. 
1  carrot. 

Y2   turnip. 

1-10  cabbage. 

Y2  onion. 

This  is  a  clear  soup,  the  stock  of 
which  is  made  the  same  as  that  for 
family  consomme.  Slice  the  vegetables 
(which  should  be  very  fresh)  into  fine 
strips  about  lYz  inches  long,  put  them 
in  a  sauce  pan  with  some  butter,  a 
teaspoon  of  sugar;  allow  to  cook  15 
minutes.  Pour  the  stock  or  consomme 
over,  and  allow  all  to  cook   lYt   hours. 

12.     TOMATO  SOUP  WITH  STOCK. 

1  quart  brown  soup  stock. 
1  can  tomatoes. 
8  peppercorns. 
1  small  bay  leaf. 

3  cloves. 

3  sprigs   of  thyme. 

4  tablespoons    of   butter. 
Yi  oi  a.  cup  of  flour. 
Onion         1 

Cdery         [    ^  ^"P  ^^^^  ^^^  '^^  ^^^^• 

Raw   ham  J 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Cook  onion,  carrot,  celery  and  ham 
in  butter  five  minutes.  Add  flour, 
peppercorns,  bay  leaf,  cloves  and  thyme 
and  cook  three  minutes;  then  add  to- 
matoes, cover  and  cook  slowly  one 
hour.  When  cooked  in  oven  it  re- 
quires less  watching.  Rub  through  a 
strainer,  add  hot  stock  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper. — (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

13.     WHITE    SOUP    STOCK. 

3  pounds  knuckle  of  veal. 

1  pound   lean  beef. 

3  quarts  boiling  water. 

1  onion. 

6  slices  carrots. 

1  large  stalk  celery. 

Y2    teaspoon  peppercorns. 
Y2   a  bay  leaf. 

2  sprigs  thyme. 
2  cloves. 

Wipe  veal;  remove  from  bone  and 
cut  into  small  pieces;  cut  beef  in 
pieces;    put    bone    and    meat    in    soup 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


S3 


kettle,  cover  with  cold  water  and  bring 
quickly  to  boiling  point;  drain,  throw 
away  the  water,  wash  thoroughly  bones 
and  meat  in  cold  water;  return  to 
kettle,  add  vegetables,  seasonings  and 
three  quarts  boiling  water;  boil  three  or 
four  hours;  the  stock  should  be  re- 
duced one-half. — (Fannie  M.   Farmer.) 


K  an  onion  sliced. 

Yt.  cup  hot  boiled  rice  (or  Yz  cup 
cooked  barley). 

Brown  carrot  and  onions  in  butter; 
add  the  stock  and  seasoning;  heat  to 
boiling  and  cook  20  minutes.  Strain; 
add  rice  or  barley  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 


14.     WHITE    STOCK. 

Chicken  soup  stock,  also  known  as 
white  stock,  is  made  by  slowly  cooking 
a  fowl  cut  as  for  fricassee,  in  the  same 
manner  as  other  meats  are  cooked  for 
stock  by  putting  it  on  in  cold  water 
to  cover,  bringing  slowly  to  boiling 
point,  and  tnen  simmering  several 
hours,  until  chicken  is  thoroughly  ten- 
der. Remove  chicken,  strain  and  cool. 
Salt  the  chicken  just  before  removing 
from  the  fire,  but  add  other  seasonings 
when  preparing  to   serve. 


IS.     CREAM  OF  CHICKEN  SOUP. 

1  quart  chicken  stock. 

6  slices  carrot  cut  into  cubes. 

2  celery  stalks. 
Yz    bay   leaf  . 

4  peppercorns. 

Yi   an   onion   sliced. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  yolks  of  eggs. 
Yi    cup  cream. 
Salt  and  pepper. 
2  whites  of  eggs. 

Yi  cup  hot  boiled  rice. 

Brown  the  carrot  and  onions  in  but- 
ter; add  stock,  celery,  bay  leaf  and 
peppercorns.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling 
point  and  cook  20  minutes.  Strain  and 
add  scalded  milk;  remove  from  fire; 
add  the  2  yolks  and  cream  beaten  to- 
gether. Allow  mixture  to  thicken  with- 
out boiling,  then  add  the  hot  boiled  rice 
and  salt  and  pepper  as  desired.  Serve 
in  tureen  or  individual  cups  and  gar- 
nish with  the  poached  whites.  The 
whites  are  poached  by  beating  them 
dry  (having  added  a  pinch  of  salt)  and 
then  dropping  a  spoonful  at  a  time  into 
hot  water. 


16.     ECONOMY  CHICKEN  SOUP. 

1   quart  chicken   stock. 

6  slices  carrot  cut  into  cubes. 

3  celery  stalks. 
Yi.   bay  leaf. 

4  peppercorns. 


17.     VEAL  AND  SAGO  SOUP. 

2Y2  pounds  lean  veal. 
3  quarts  cold  water. 
Yi,  pound  pearl  sago. 
2  cups  scalded  milk. 
Yolks  4  eggs. 
Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  veal  into  small  pieces;  remove 
particles  of  fat  and  put  the  lean  meat 
through  meat  chopper.  Cover  meat 
with  water,  bringing  slowly  to  boiling 
point  and  simmer  two  hours;  skim 
occasionally;  strain  and  re-heat.  Soak 
sago  Yi  hour  in  water  to  cover;  stir 
into  hot  stock,  boil  30  minutes  and  add 
milk;  then  pour  mixture  slowly  upon 
yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 


18.    CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

2  bunches  asparagus. 

4  cups  cold  water. 

H  bay  leaf. 

Y%   teaspoon  thyme. 

2  cups  milk. 

\Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  Armour's  Beef  Extract. 

2  even  tablespoons  butter. 
4  even  tablespoons  flour. 

1  cup  thin  cream. 
A  dash  of  pepper. 

_  Wash  asparagus  and  cut  into  1  inch 
pieces.  Put  on  in  sauce  pan  with  4 
cups  cold  water,  half  a  bay  leaf  and 
the  thyme.  Cook  until  tender;  water 
should  be  boiled  down  just  one-half. 
Drain  into  large  sauce  pan  and  press 
asparagus  through  a  coarse  strainer, 
taking  all  but  the  hard  fibre. 

Make  a  roux  for  thickening  by  allow- 
ing the  butter  to  bubble  up  in  a  small 
frying  pan;  add  flour  to  the  butter  and 
stir  until  well  thickened  and  slightly 
brown. 

Whether  made  in  chafing  dish,  or  in 
a  sauce  pan  upon  the  stove,  proceed  as 
follows:  Add  the  milk  to  the  asparagus 
pulp  and  juice,  also  the  Armour's  Beef 


54 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


Extract  and  salt,  in  quantities  as  above 
directed;  allow  to  just  come  to  a  boil. 
Dip  out  a  little  of  the  hot  asparagus 
into  a  cup  containing  the  roux  and 
make  a  smooth  paste.  Add  this  to 
asparagus  mixture,  while  stirring  and 
wiien  rather  thick,  and  bubbling,  add 
the  cup  of  cream,  stir  until  it  just 
bubbles,  add  a  dash  of  pepper  and  serve 
at  once.     This  makes  six  portions. 

A  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream 
dropped  upon  the  top  of  each  serving, 
enriches  and  garnishes  this  delicious 
summer  soup. 

19.     ASPARAGUS    SOUP. 

3  cups  of  white  stock  (No.  13  or  14). 
2  bunches  of  asparagus. 
2  cups   cold   water. 

1  sliced  onion. 
yi  cup  butter. 
14   cup  flour. 

2  cups  scalded  milk. 
Salt  and  pepper. 

Clean  asparagus,  reserving  the  tips 
and  add  stock  to  cold  water;  boil  5 
minutes;  drain;  add  stock  and  onion; 
boil  30  minutes;  rub  through  a  sieve 
and  bind  with  butter  and  flour,  cooking 
together.  Add  salt,  pepper,  milk  and 
tips. — (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

20.  EVERY  DAY  ASPARAGUS 
SOUP. 

2  bunches  asparagus. 

1  quart  water. 

1  cup   thin  cream. 

1  pint   milk. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Yi   teaspoon  pepper. 

A  dash  of  paprika. 

Wash  asparagus,  cut  into  small  pieces 
and  let  simmer  gently  in  the  water  until 
tender.  Save  the  liquid  and  rub  as- 
paragus through  a  colander,  leaving  only 
the  fibre  and  hard  portions.  Return 
asparagus  to  the  liquid  and  add  milk, 
cream  and  salt.     Heat  and  serve. 

21.      CREAM    OF   CELERY   SOUP. 

2  cups  white  stock   (13  or  14). 

3  cups  celery  cut  in  inch  pieces. 
2  cups  boiling  water. 

1  sliced  onion. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

3  tablespoons  flour. 
2  cups  milk. 

Salt  and  pepper. 


Parboil  celery  in  water  ten  minutes; 
drain;  add  stock,  cooking  until  celery  is 
soft,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  .Scald 
onion  in  milk;  remove  onion,  add  milk 
to  stock;  bind,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  This  soup  is  further  en- 
riched by  the  addition  of  cream — a 
cup  or  less. — (Fannie  M.   Farmer.) 

22.     FISH   CHOWDER. 

4  pounds  cod  or  haddock. 

6  cups  potatoes  cut  in   J4   inch  slices. 

1  onion  sliced. 

IH   inch  cube  of  fat  salt  pork. 

1  tablespoon  salt. 

yi   oi  Si  teaspoon  of  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 
4  cups  scalded  milk. 
8  common  crackers. 

Order  the  fish  skinned  but  head  and 
tail  left  on.  Cut  off  head  and  tail  and 
remove  fish  from  back  bone.  Cut  fish 
in  2  inch  pieces  and  set  aside.  Put 
head,  tail  and  back  bone,  broken  in 
pieces,  into  stew  pan.  Add  two  cups 
cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  boiling 
point.  Cook  20  minutes.  Cut  salt  pork 
in  small  pieces  and  try  out.  Add  onion 
and  fry  five  minutes;  strain  fat  into 
stew  pan.  Parboil  potatoes  five  min- 
utes in  boiling  water  to  cover;  drain 
and  add  potatoes  to  fat;  then  2  cups 
boiling  water  and  cook  5  minutes;  add 
liquid,  drained  from  bones;  then  add 
the  fish;  cover  and  simmer  ten  minutes, 
add  milk,  salt,  pepper,  butter  and 
crackers;  split  and  soak  in  enough  coM 
milK  to  moisten. — (Adapted  from  Miss 
Farmer). 

23.     OYSTER  STEW. 

1  quart  oysters. 

1  quart  milk. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 
Pepper. 

Drain  liquid  from  oysters  and  set 
aside.  Wash  oysters  by  letting  cold 
water  run  over  them  through  the  co- 
lander. Heat  oyster  liquid  to  boiling; 
strain  through  finest  wire  strainer; 
add  oysters  and  cook  until  plump  and 
edges  begin  to  crimp.  Add  scalded 
milk,   butter,    salt  and   pepper. 

24.     BEAN  PORRIDGE. 

1  pint   beans. 

1/2   pound  salt  pork. 

3  quarts   water. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


55 


1  pint  beef  gravy  or  soup  stock. 

1  cup  s\yeet  cream. 

Butter  size  of  half  an  egg. 

Pepper  and  salt. 

Soak  one  pint  of  beans  over  night. 
In  the  morning  parboil,  rinse,  add 
three  quarts  of  water,  salt  pork  cut 
in  slices  and  stew  slowly  until  both 
beans  and  pork  are  tender.  Press 
through  a  coarse  sieve  or  colander, 
both  beans  and  pork,  leaving  only  the 
fibre  and  skins.  Add  beef  stock,  sweet 
cream,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  more 
water  if  the  porridge  is  thicker  than 
desired. 


21.     VEGETABLE   PEA  SOUP. 

1  pint  split  peas. 

XYt,    pints  sliced  potatoes. 

1  medium  sized  onion. 

Salt. 

Cook  one  pint  of  split  peas  until  dis- 
solved; when  nearly  done,  put  potatoes 
to  cooking  with  the  onion,  sliced  thin. 
When  tender,  rub  all  through  a  colan- 
der; add  water  to  make  of  the  consist- 
ency of  thin  cream;  salt  to  taste;  re- 
heat and  serve. — (Mrs.  E.  E.  Keixogg. 
A.  M.) 


25.  TOMATO  SOUP  WITHOUT 

STOCK. 

1  can    tomatoes. 

1  pint  water. 
12  peppercorns. 
Yi   bay  leaf. 

4  cloves. 

2  teaspoons  sugar. 

1  teaspoon    salt. 
Yi  teaspoon  soda. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

3  tablespoons  flour. 
1  sliced  onion. 

Cook  the  iirst  six  ingredients  20 
minutes;  strain;  _  add  salt  and  soda; 
bind,  and  strain  into  tureen. —  (Fannie 
M.   Farmer.) 

To  bind  soup,  beat  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  to  bubbling  (in  same  pan) ;  add 
2  tablespoons  flour,  rub  into  butter 
and,  when  mixed  and  slightly  brown, 
add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  soup;  rub 
smooth,  add  a  little  more  soup,  and, 
when  smooth,  pour  slowly  into  the 
kettle   of  soup. 

26.  PEA  AND  TOMATO  SOUP. 

1  pint    Scotch   peas. 

1  quart  boiling  water. 

2  cups    strained    stewed    tomatoes. 

3  cups  brown  soup  stock. 

Soak  peas  over  night.  When  ready 
to  cook,  put  into  a  quart  of  boiling 
water  and  simmer  slowly  until  quite 
dry  and  well  broken.  Rub  through  a 
colander,  to  remove  the  skin.  Add  the 
tomato  and  soup  stock;  turn  into  a 
double  boiler  and  cook  for  half  an 
hour  or  more;  turn  a  second  time 
through  colander,  or  soup  strainer,  and 
serve. 

If  desired,  a  few  pieces  of  celery  or 
a  slice  of  onion  may  be  added  just 
before  reheating. — (Mrs.  E.  E.  Kel- 
logg. A.  M.) 


2Z.     GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

1  quart  shelled  peas. 

Water  to  cook. 

1  quart  milk. 

Yi  an  onion. 

Y2  cup  thin  cream. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Pepper. 

Cook  peas  in  as  little  water  as  neces- 
sary, leaving  very  little  when  peas  are 
tender.  Add  Y2  cup  of  milk  and  rub 
through  a  colander;  add  remainder  o£ 
milk  and  onion  sliced.  Boil  ten  min- 
utes and  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
removing  the  onion.  Add  cream  just 
before  serving.  Celery,  bay  leaf  and 
thyme  may  be  used  as  seasonings  if 
liked. 


29.  VEGETABLE  SCOTCH  BROTH. 

2  tablespoons  pearl  barley. 

1  tablespoon    steel-cut  oatmeal. 

2  quarts  water. 

1  car"ot}*="t  into  small  dice. 
Y2  cup     coarse     whole     wheat     bread 
crumbs. 

1  cup  milk. 

Y2   cup  thin  cream. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Soak  over  night  the  barley  and  oat- 
meal in  water  to  just  cover.  In  the 
morning  put  the  grains,  together  with 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  into 
two  quarts  of  water,  and  simmer  for 
several  hours,  adding  boiling  water  as 
needed.  About  an  hour  before  the  soup 
is  required,  add  the  turnip,  carrot  and 
bread  crumbs,  rub  all  through  a  colan- 
der; add  salt,  milk  and  cream. — 
(Mrs.  E.  E,  Kellogg.  A.  M.) 


56 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


30.     GENUINE  SCOTCH  BROTH. 

Wipe  three  pounds  of  mutton  cut 
from  ^  fore  quarter.  Cut  lean  meat  in 
one  inch  cubes;  put  in  kettle;  cover 
with  three  pints  cold  water,  bringing 
quickly  to  boiling  point;  skim  and  add 
y2  cup  barley  which  has  been  soaked 
in  cold  water  over  night.  Simmer  1J4 
hours  or  until  meat  is  tender.  Put 
bones  in  a  second  kettle;  cover  with 
cold  water;  heat  slowly  to  boiling  point; 
skim  and  boil  XYz  hours;  strain  water 
from  bones  and  add  to  meat.  Fry  five 
minutes,   in  two   tablespoons   of   butter, 


54  cup  each  of  carrot,  turnip,  onion  and 
celery,  cut  in  ^  inch  dice.  Add  to 
soup  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
cook  until  vegetables  are  soft.  Thicken 
with  two  tablespoons  each  of  butter 
and  flour  cooked  together.  Add  Yi  ta- 
blespoon finely  chopped  parsley  just  be- 
fore serving.  Rice  may  be  used  in 
place  of  barley. 

Fragments  of  a  lamb  roast  may  be 
utilized  for  Scotch  Broth.  If  less 
meat  is  used  than  recipe  calls  for, 
modify  other  ingredients  in  proportion. 
—(Fannie  M.   Farmer.) 


vn 


Soup  Garnishes 


31.     CROUTONS. 


Croutons  are  usually  served  in  clear 
soup.  Cut  stale  bread  into  small  dice 
H    inch^  or  a   trifle   less. 

Fry  in  smoking  hot  lard  until  just 
a  golden  brown.  Try  one  first  to  see 
that  it  browns  at  once  without  soaking 
fat. 

Z2.     WHIPPED  CREAM. 

Purees  and  cream  soups  are  often 
garnished  with  a  spoonful  of  cream 
whipped  stiff,  and  dropped  upon  each 
plate  of  soup  just  as  it  is  served. 

33.     EGG  BALLS. 

Yolks  2  hard  boiled  eggs. 
yi   teaspoon  salt. 
A  dash  of  cayenne  or  paprika. 
Y2   teaspoon  melted  butter. 
Rub  yolks  through  sieve;  add  season- 
ings   and    moisten    with    raw    egg    yolk 


to  make  of  consistency  to  handle.  Shape 
into  small  balls;  roll  in  flour  and  brown 
in  butter.  Serve  in  brown  soup  stock 
or  consomme. — (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

34.     NOODLES. 

Yi    teaspoon  salt. 

Flour. 

Beat  egg  slightly;  add  salt  and  flout 
enough  to  make  very  stiff  dough;  knead, 
toss  on  slightly  floured  board  and  roll 
as  thin  as  possible,  which  may  be  as 
thin  as  paper.  Cover  with  towel  and 
set  aside  for  20  minutes,  then  cut  in 
fancy  shapes  using  sharp  knife  or 
French  vegetable  cutter;  or  the  thin 
sheet  may  be  rolled  like  jelly  roll,  cut 
in  slices  as  thinly  as  possible,  then  un- 
roll pieces.  Dry,  and  when  needed, 
cook  20  minutes  in  boiling  salt  water; 
drain  and  add  to  soup.  Noodles  may 
be  served  as  a  vegetable. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 


vin 
Fish 


Fresh  fish  is  a  wholesome,  healthful 
food  and  should  be  found  upon  the 
table  at  least  once  a  week  if  possible, 
if  the  family  diet  is  to  be  well  bal- 
anced. 

In  selecting,  look  for  bright  gills  and 
eyes. as  a  test  of  freshness.  The  flesh, 
too,   should  be  firm. 


TO  CLEAN  FISH. 


If  the  fish  has  not  been  scaled  at  the 
market,  dip  it  for  a  few  seconds  into  a 
pan  of  boiling  hot  water  and  the  scales 
may  then  be  easily  removed.  Hold  the 
fish  firmly  by  the  tail,  and,  with  the 
knife  at  an  angle  of  45  degrees  scrape 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


57 


toward  the  head.  If  this  can  be  done 
out  of  doors,  drive  a  nail  through  the 
tail  into  a  block  or  plank,  and  scaling 
becomes  a  matter  of  very  few  moments. 

To  "draw,"  cut  the  fish  open  along 
the  under  side,  and  the  entrails  may 
be  removed  readily.  Wash  thoroughly, 
taking  care  to  remove  any  blood  clots 
which  have  settled  along  the  backbone. 
Remove  fins  and  the  backbone.  The 
latter  may  be  done  by  cutting  carefully 
with  a  very  sharp  knife,  along  either 
side  of  the  bone,  along  the  back,  be- 
ginning at  the  tail.  The  entire  back 
bone  and  back  fin  may  then  be  slipped 
out,  without  cutting  the  fish  in  two. 
Nearly  all  of  the  small  bones  come  out 
with  the  backbone. 

A  fish  thus  prepared  is  much  more 
enjoyable  than  when  served  full  of 
small  bones. 

For  broiling  or  frying,  the  head  is 
usually  removed,  although  for  very 
small  fish  both  head  and  tail  may  be 
left  on. 

Fish  may  also  be  skinned  by  using  a 
sharp  knife.  Start  the  skin  at  the 
edges,  along  the  slit  made  by  removing 
backbone  and,  if  fresh,  the  skin  will 
come  off  quite  easily. 

In  boiling  or  baking  fish,  always  have 
a  grate  in  the  bottom  of  basket  or  pan, 
upon  which  the  fish  may  be  lifted,  to 
avoid  breaking. 


35. 


BOILED   FISH— FRENCH 
STYLE. 


Halibut,  Cod,  Bluefish,  Salmon,  Pike, 
Bass,  or  any  fish,  large  enough  to  boil, 
may  be  prepared  as  follows,  about  five 
pounds  being  allowed  for  five  persons: 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish,  remove  the 
gills  and  fins,  preserving  the  tail.  Place 
the  fish  in  a  kettle  having  a  grate  at 
the  bottom.  Add  two  carrots,  one  onion 
sliced,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  half  a  bay 
leaf,  six  peppercorns  and  _  water  to 
cover  the  fish  well.  Allow  it  to  heat 
and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  set 
the  kettle  back  where  it  will  simmer 
about  one  hour,  without  boiling. 

Send  to  the  table  on  a  folded  napkin, 
arranged  on  a  platter. 

With  boiled  fish,  serve  potatoes  boiled 
with  jackets  on  in  slightly  salted  wa- 
ter, carefully  removing  jackets  before 
sending  to  the  table. 

Boiled  fish  calls  for  Hollandaise,  Ca- 
per or  White  sauce,   served   separately. 


36.     SMALL    FISH— BOILED. 

Bass,  pickerel  and  other  small  fish 
from  one  to  five  pounds  in  size,  may 
be  boiled  as  follows:  Clean  and  wash 
the  fish;  place  upon  grate  in  fish  ket- 
tle and  cover  with  boiling  salted  water. 
Keep  boiling  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
according  to  the  size.  Drain  the  fish, 
place  it  on  a  warm  platter,  sprinkle 
over  lemon  juice  and  two  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter  mixed  with  one  table- 
spoon of  minced  parsley.  Serve  with 
boiled  potatoes  and  White  or  Holland- 
aise Sauce. 


37.     BOILED    FISH- 
STYLE. 


-ENGLISH 


After  cleaning,  tie  the  fish  in  a  piece 
of  cheese  cloth.  Place  your  rack  in 
kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Add  salt  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
or  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  The  latter 
keeps  the  flesh  white.  Three  pounds  of 
fish  is  usually  boiled  in  about  30  min- 
utes and  five  pounds  in  about  45  min- 
utes. The  time  will  vary  with  condi- 
tions, but  when  the  flesh  separates 
from  the  bone,  the  fish  is  done. 

Serve  as  directed  for  the  French 
style. 

38.     BROILED  FISH  STEAKS. 

Salmon  steak,  also  halibut,  cod  or 
other  steaks  (one  inch  slices  from  large 
fish)  may  be  broiled  in  the  following 
manner:  After  washing  and  cleaning, 
dry  the  fish  well  in  cheese  cloth  or  a 
napkin,  lay  a  slice  into  a  deep  plate, 
sprinkle  each  side  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, also  olive  oil  (or  melted  butter  if 
preferred),  place  upon  a  broiler  and 
cook  over  a  moderate  fire,  taking  care 
to  turn  the  broiler  occasionally. 

When  done,  sprinkle  each  slice  with 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  serve 
with  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  also  with  a 
lemon  sliced,  and  a  garnish  of  parsley. 

Small  fish,  such  as  bass,  pickerel, 
pike,  trout,  etc.,  may  also  be  broiled. 
After  cleaning  and  washing,  divide  into 
two  parts  lengthwise,  unless  fish  are 
quite  small.  Place  the  fish  on  a  plate 
and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
roll   in   melted  butter    (or   olive   oil). 

Broil  as  directed  for  fish  steak,  turn- 
ing two  or  three  times  until  a  golden 
brown.  Loosen  from  the  broiler,  care- 
fully, with  knife  and  fork  to  prevent 
breaking.  Serve  with  melted  butter  and 
chopped  parsley. 


58 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


39.     FRIED  FISH. 

Small  fish  are  best  fried  New  Eng- 
land style,  which  is  as  follows:  After 
each  fish  has  been  thoroughly  cleaned 
and  washed,  dry  well  by  placing  be- 
tween folds  of  a  napkin  and  patting 
until  water  has  been  absorbed  from 
them. 

Upon  the  meat  board  mix  corn  and 
rye  meal  (^  corn  and  J^  rye).  At  one 
side  have  a  large  deep  plate  containing 
beaten  egg  diluted  with  2  tablespoons 
of  water  to  each  egg. 

Roll  the  fish  in  the  meal,  dip  lightly 
into  the  egg,  then  roll  in  the  meal  again 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  which  has  first  been 
tried  out  by  frying  sliced  salt  pork  in 
the  frying  pan. 

Fry  the  fish  until  both  sides  are  a 
crisp,  golden  brown.  Garnish  each 
small  fish  or  each  half  of  larger  fish 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  maitre  d'hotel 
butter. 

40.     COLD  FISH  A  L'  IMPERIALE. 

Boil  salmon,  halibut  or  trout  in  the 
French  style  and  let  it  cool  in  the  water 
in  which  it  was  cooked.  When  cold, 
drain  and  skin  carefully,  placing  upon 
a   folded  napkin  arranged  on  a  dish. 

Cook  in  boiling  water,  and  sepa- 
rately, green  kidney  beans,  green  peas, 
carrots  cut  into  dice,  cauliflower  sepa- 
rated into  balls  about  the  size  of  a 
hazel  nut,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter  and  dispose  these  vegetables  with 
an  eye  to  artistic  color  arrangement 
around  the  fish  on  the  platter,  garnish- 
ing with  lettuce  leaves  and  sprigs  of 
parsley. 

Serve  a  caper  or  hollandaise  sauce  in 
a  separate  gravy  bowl. 

Fewer  vegetables  may  be  used,  if  all 
are  not  available.  Alternate  mounds 
of  carrots  and  peas,  or  carrots  and 
beans,  each  little  mound  on  a  lettuce 
leaf,  makes  an  effective  garnish. 

Fish  "left  over"  from  boiling  either 
the  French  or  the  English  way,  may 
be  served  in  this  manner. 

41.     WHITEFISH. 

Whitefish  may  be  broiled  as  directed 
for  black  bass  or,  if  large  enough,  may 
be  planked,  as  directed  for  shad.  The 
latter  is  the  ideal  way  to  cook  white- 
fish.  When  carefully  done,  a  planked 
whitefish  is  a  royal  dish,  does  honor  to 


the  cook  and,  with  its  golden  brown 
and  garnish  of  lemon  slices,  parsley 
sprays  and  potato  border,  is  highly 
ornamental. — (For  Directions  See  No. 
47.) 

42.  BOILED  MACKEREL. 

(See  No.  36.) 

43.  FRESH  BOILED  COD. 

(See  No.  35.) 

44.  BAKED  FRESH  COD. 

After  cleaning  and  washing,  rub  in- 
side and  outside  with  salt,  pepper  and 
lemon  juice.  Stuff  and  sew  up  the 
fish,  dredge  well  with  buttered  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  for  45  to  55  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  either 
hollandaise  or  white  sauce. 

45.     STUFFING  FOR  BAKED  FISH. 

To  each  cup  of  crumbs  (half  cracker 
and  half  bread  or  all  cracker)  allow  1 
heaping  tablespoon  butter,  scant  H  cup 
boiling  water,  scant  teaspoon  "poultry 
dressing"  or  sage,  H  teaspoon  salt  and 
a  little  pepper.  Prepare  crumbs  by 
putting  crackers  and  stale  bread  through 
large  meat  cutter.  Mix  seasonings  with 
the  crumbs.  ^  Melt  the  butter  by  pour- 
ing the  boiling  water  upon  it,  stir  it 
into  the  crumbs,  which  should  be  just 
moist  enough  to  cling  together  for 
stuffing.  Prepare  as  much  stuffing  as 
will  be  needed  to  fill  the  fish,  following 
above  proportions. 

46.     BAKED  BLUE  FISH. 

Clean  and  wash  fish,  dry  with  nap- 
kin, rub  inside  with  salt  and  pepper, 
stuff  with  dressing  No.  45  and  sew  up. 
Place  in  a  dripping  pan  on  a  fish  rack 
greased,  that  it  may  be  lifted  out  with- 
out breaking;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper 
and  flour  or  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  into 
the  pan  pour  ^  cup  of  boiling  water  in 
which  14  cup  butter  has  been  dissolved. 
Bake  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven,  basting 
every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Serve 
with  hollandaise  or  white  sauce. 

47.     PLANKED  SHAD. 

Clean,  wash,  remove  head  and  fins, 
leaving  the  tail  in  place  and  carefully 
remove  backbone.  Rub  both  sides  of 
fish  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place  fish 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


59 


flat  upon  the  plank,  with  the  skin  to- 
ward the  plank.  Brush  the  fish  well 
with  melted  butter  and,  all  around  it 
and  about  an  inch  or  more  from  the 
fish  and  a  little  back  from  the  edge  of 
the  plank,  arrange  a  rim  of  salt.  Lay 
it  around  with  a  teaspoon,  keeping  it 
away  from  the  fish  but  piling  it  around 
well,  to  form  a  little  "mound"  entirely 
encircling  the  fish.  This  keeps  the  but- 
ter from  running  off  into  the  oven. 

Have  the  oven  piping  hot  and  bake 
the  fish  25  or  30  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  oven,  lay  a  little  fresh  salt 
over  that  on  the  plank,  to  cover  dis- 
colorations  from  butter,  mark  salt  in 
"herring  bone"  pattern,  with  a  fork 
or  skewer  point,  dot  the  fish  with  bits 
of  butter,  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon 
and  parsley  sprays,  set  the  fish,  plank 
and  all,  into  a  long  platter  and  send  to 
the  table. 

Or,  the  salt  may  be  brushed  off  and 
potato,  previously  cooked,  mashed  and 
seasoned,  may  be  arranged  with  a  "pas- 
try bag"  to  make  an  artistic  border, 
the  plank  returned  to  the  oven  just 
long  enough  to  brown  the  potato,  then 
removed,  more  butter  dotted  upon  the 
fish  and  the  lemon  and  parsley  ar- 
ranged ready  for  the  table. 

48.     PLANK  FOR  FISH. 

An  oak  plank,  oval  or  oblong,  and  1 
inch  thick  is  required  for  planking  fish. 
For  a  4  pound  fish  a  plank  18  inches 
long  and  10  inches  wide  will  be  about 
right.     Planks  of  various  sizes  may  be 


bought  for  this  purpose  from  nearly 
any  hardware  store,  or  they  may  be  cut 
to  order  at  any  wood-working  mill.  The 
oval  shape  lends  itself  more  attractively 
to  the  purpose.  Every  pantry  should 
have  its  fish  plank.  This  is  a  simple 
and  inexpensive  way  to  cook  fish.  Shad 
and  whitefish  are  at  their  best  "done" 
in  this  attractive  manner. 

49.     SHAD  ROE— BROILED. 

Handle  roe  very  carefully,  so  as  not 
to  break  the  skin  which  surrounds  the 
eggs.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and 
melted  butter  (or  olive  oil).  Broil  and 
serve  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter. — (See 
No.   154.) 

50.     BAKED    SHAD    ROE. 

Cook  shad  roe  IS  minutes  in  boiling 
salted  water  to  cover,  with  yz  table- 
spoon vinegar;  drain;  cover  with  cold 
water  and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Re- 
move from  cold  water  and  place  in 
buttered  pan.  Bake  20  minutes  in  hot 
oven,  basting  every  5  minutes  with 
melted  butter. 

51.     SHAD     ROE     WITH    TOMATO 
SAUCE. 

Bake  as  above  with  the  addition  of 
^  of  a  cup  of  tomato  sauce  poured 
around  the  shad  when  put  into  the 
oven.  After  taking  it  out  upon  a  plat- 
ter, pour  another  ^  of  a  cup  of  to- 
mato sauce  around  it. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 


IX 
Salt  Fish 


52.     SALT  MACKEREL. 

Freshen  salt  mackerel  in  cold  water 
to  cover,  allowing  it  to  stand  about  a 
half  hour.  Drain,  carefully  scrape  off 
skin,  divide  fish  into  fourths  and  put 
into  sauce  pan  in  which  a  pint  of  thin 
white  sauce  has  been  made.  (See  No. 
160.)  Add  %  cut  sweet  cream  or  a 
tablespoon  of  butter,  heat  up  a  mo- 
ment, season  with  pepper  and  serve  at 
once. 

53.     SALT  CODFISH  IN  CREAM. 

"Pick"  the  desired  amount  of  fish 
into   small   pieces,    freshen   by   allowing 


it  to  stand  a  few  moments  in  cold 
water,  drain  and  add  to  thin  white 
sauce  made  as  for  salt  mackerel.  Do 
not  add  salt  fish  to  white  sauce  until 
ready  to  serve  or  it  may  "curdle."  If 
convenient,  serve  with  hard-boiled  eggs 
cut  into  halves  and  laid  attractively 
around  upon  the  top  of  the  sauce.  Or, 
one  egg  may  be  beaten  and  added  to 
the  sauce,  after  fish  has  been  added, 
just    before    removing    from    the    stove. 

54.     CODFISH   BALLS. 

1  cup  codfish. 

2y2  cups  mashed  potatoes. 

1  egg. 


60 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


J^    tablespoon   butter. 

ys  teaspoon  pepper  and  salt. 

Pick  salted  codfish  into  small  bits, 
wash  thoroughly  with  cold  water,  then 
drain.  There  should  be  1  cup  of  fish. 
Boil  white  potatoes  and  mash,  in  quan- 
tity sufficient  to  make  21/2  cups.  Beat 
potatoes  and  fish  lightly  together,  add 
the  butter  melted,  a  well  beaten  egg, 
%  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  bit  of  salt  if 
needed.  When  well  beaten  take  up  a 
heaping  tablespoon  of  fish  mixture, 
shape  into  flat  balls,  handling  lightly, 
roll  in  flour,  dredge  with  pepper.  Pro- 
ceed in  this  manner  until  all  the  mix- 
ture has  been  shaped  into  balls.  These 
may  be  made  the  night  before  and  fried 
in  the  morning.  When  ready  to  cook, 
roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  flour,  ar- 
range in  frying  basket  and  fry  in  deep 
fat  until  a  handsome  brown,  _  This 
makes   12  fish  balls  of  medium  size. 

Some  prefer  not  shaping  the  balls, 
simply  dipping  up  a  heaping^  spoonful 
of  the  mixture  and  dropping  it  without 
handling  into  the  hot  fat. 


Serve  on  a  hot  platter.  Pass  at  the 
same  time  hot  boiled  potatoes  and  egg 
sauce. — (The  Boston  Cooking-School 
Magazine.) 

56.      FINNAN   HADDIE— DELMONI- 
CO  STYLE. 

Prepare  the  fish  as  above,  then  sepa- 
rate the  flesh  into  flakes,  discarding 
skin  and  bones.  For  each  cup  of  fish 
prepare  a  cup  of  cream  sauce;  i.  e., 
melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  cook  in 
it  two  level  tablespoons  of  flour,  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoon,  each,  of  salt  and 
pepper,  and  gradually  add  one  cup  of 
milk.  Reheat  the  fish  in  the  sauce.  To 
serve  au  gratin,  put  the  fish  and  sauce 
into  a  buttered  au  gratin  dish,  in  alter- 
nate layers,  having  the  last  layer  of 
sauce.  Cover  with  cracker  crumbs 
(two-thirds  a  cup  to  a  fourth  a  cup  of 
butter)  mixed  with  melted  butter,  and 
set  into  a  hot  oven  to  brown  the 
crumbs. — (The  Boston  Cooking-School 
Magazine.) 


55.     BOILED   FINNAN   HADDIE. 

Select  a  thick  fish.  Put  flesh  side 
down  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  set  to  cook  on  the  back  of 
the  range.  In  half  to  a  whole  hour 
draw  to  a  hotter  part  of  the  range,  and 
gradually  heat  the  water  to  the  simmer- 
ing-point.  Let  simmer  from  five  to  ten 
minutes,  then  drain  the  fish  carefully. 


57.     BROILED  FINNAN  HADDIE. 

Prepare  as  in  the  first  recipe.  Wipe 
dry,  brush  over  with  melted  butter  or 
olive  oil.  Then  set  to  cook  over  coals 
in  a  hinged  broiler.  Cook  on  both 
sides,  then  turn  upon  a  hot  platter, 
and  spread  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 
— (The  Boston  Cooking-School  Maga- 
zine.) 


Fish  Fragments 


58.     HALIBUT  RAMEKINS. 

Fragments  of  boiled  halibut  may  be 
served  in  ramekin  dishes  and  make  a 
dainty  breakfast  or  luncheon  dish.  Rub 
the  halibut  through  a  colander  or  coarse 
sieve,  season  with  salt,  lemon  juice 
and  a  dash  of  paprika.  For  a  half 
pound  of  the  halibut  meat  allow  a 
scant  quarter  of  a  cup  of  thick  cream 
or  white  sauce,  l4  teaspoon  of  salt,  a 
scant  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  the 
white  of  one  large  egg  beaten  stiff. 
After  seasoning  the  fish,  add  the  cream 
whipped  stiff,  also  the  white  of  the  egg 
beaten  dry. 

Any  small  dishes  which  will  bear 
heat  and  which  hold  about  half  a  cup 


may  be  used  as  ramekin  dishes.  These 
little  dishes  may  be  purchased  in  many 
quaint  and  pretty  designs.  Each  dish 
is  usually  accompanied  by  a  saucer 
upon  which  the  hot  ramekin  dish  may 
be  set  when  sending  to  the  table. 

Butter  the  ramekin  dishes  and  fill 
about  three-fourths  full,  and  brush 
over  the  top  of  the  mixture  with 
melted  butter.  Set  the  ramekin  dishes 
into  a  shallow  pan  containing  hot  wa- 
ter, which  comes  about  half  way  up 
the  sides  of  the  dishes.  Bake  20  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve  in 
the  ramekin  molds;  or  slip  the  rame- 
kins out,  arrange  on  a  platter,  and 
serve  with  white  or  Hollandaise  sauce. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


61 


59.  SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

"Pick"  cold  Salmon  into  small  bits, 
enough  to  make  two  even  cups  piled  in 
lightly.  Turn  salmon  into  a  deep  plate, 
season  with  a  dash  or  two  of  paprika, 
a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  then  mix  thoroughly  with  a  scant 
cup  of  thick  white  sauce. 

Shape  into  croquettes,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  or  crumbs  from  very  dry  bread. 
Then  roll  each  croquette  in  beaten  egg, 
diluted  with  two  tablespoons  of  cold 
water;  then  roll  in  the  crumbs  again 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat,  to  a  golden 
brown.  Drain  upon  brown  paper,  gar- 
nish with  parsley  and   lemon   slices. 

60.  FISH  RAMEKINS  WITH 

CHEESE. 

Cold  salmon,  trout,  halibut,  bass,  pike 
or  any  meaty  fish  may  be  used  for  this 
dainty  dish,  appropriate  for  luncheon 
or  Sunday  evening  tea. 

Ramekin  dishes  may  be  used  or  in 
place  of  them  scallop-shells — shallow 
fan-shaped  shells,  which  are  durable 
and  attractive.  Foi  five  persons,  allow 
proportions  about  as  follows: 

Cold  fish,  one  to  two  pounds. 

Butter,  5  tablespoons. 

Flour,   2  tablespoons. 

Bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons. 

Grated  cheese,  1  tablespoon. 

Stock,   2^    cups. 

2  egg  yolks. 

1  small  onion. 

Divide  the  fish  into  small  bits;  brown, 
in  a  sauce  pan,  1  chopped  onion  with 
one  tablespoon  of  butter;  sprinkle  over 
two  tablespoons  of  flour,  add  the  stock 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Next, 
beat  in  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
with  two  tablespoons  of  butter;  add  a 
part  of  the  sauce;  pour  all  into  a  sauce- 
pan and  do  not  ahow  it  to  boil  again. 
Add  the  picked  fish,  stir  well  and  pile 


upon  ten  shells;  or  divide  it  between 
ten  shallow  ramekin  dishes.  Sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and  grate 
American  cheese  upon  this;  sprinkle 
over  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 
and  bake  in  an  oven  five  minutes.  Fold 
a  napkin  upon  a  platter,  arrange  the 
shells  upon  it  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

61.     SCALLOPED  FISH. 

Fragments  of  fish,  particularly  white 
meat,  are  delicious  prepared  in  the 
following  manner: 

Make  a  white  sauce  with  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  3  level  tablespoons 
flour,  and  2  or  2J^  cups  milk.  When 
butter  bubbles  in  sauce  pan  stir  in 
flour  and  when  mixed,  add  milk  grad- 
ually; season  with  pepper,  salt,  J^  bay 
leaf,  and  a  few  grains  of  thyme;  beat 
until  smooth.  Add  3  small  tomatoes 
cut  into  eighths;  crush  tomatoes  in  the 
sauce  with  spoon;  butter  a  small  bak- 
ing dish;  sprinkle  the  bottom  with 
ground  bread  crumbs;  spread  in  a  layer 
of  cold  fish,  picked  into  bits;  add  a 
layer  of  tomato  sauce;  another  of 
crumbs;  another  of  fish,  then  a  thick 
layer  of  sauce;  then  one  of  crumbs  and 
dot  the  top  with  bits  of  butter;  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Bake  until  thor- 
oughly heated  through. 

62.  FISH  FRAGMENTS— DELMON- 
ICO  STYLE. 

Pick  or  cut  cooked  fish  (salmon,  hali- 
but, bass,  pickerel,  whitefish  or  almost 
any  variety)  into  small  bits  or  into  inch 
cubes.  Prepare  a  sauce  exactly  as  for 
salt  mackerel.  When  sauce  is  ready, 
add  the  cold  fish,  heat  through  and 
serve  at  once. 

If  fish  is  finely  minced,  it  may  be 
poured  over  toast  or  shredded  wheat 
biscuit. 


XI 
Oysters 


Oysters  are  at  their  best  from  No- 
vember to  April  and  are  said  to  be  in 
their  prime  in  March.  From  May  to 
the  first  of  September  they  are  not 
desirable. 

Most  people  swallow  the  oyster  whole, 
but  the  ancients  always  masticated  the 
oyster  as  other  foods,  and  it  is  said  to 
have    a    much    finer    flavor    and    to    be 


more  nourishing  when  well  masticated. 

The  oyster  is  one  of  the  most  easily 
digested  of  all  foods,  particularly  when 
raw,  and  is  very  rich  in  proteids  or 
tissue   building  compounds. 

Oysters  are  usually  served  in  the  half 
shell  or  in  a  shallow  plate,  five  or  six 
being  the  usual  portion  for  each  per- 
son.    A    half    lemon    should    also     be 


62 


THE  MONARCH  GOOK  BOOK. 


served  with  each  portion,  or  vinegar 
to  those  who  prefer  it,  also  horseradish, 
salt  and  pepper. 

63.     RELISH   FOR   RAW  OYSTERS. 

Chop  as  finely  as  possible,  one  onion 
of  medium  size  and  parsley  of  equal 
bulk.  Put  these  into  a  napkin,  dip  it 
into  cold  water,  wring  it  well  to  remove 
the  rank  juice  of  the  onion;  then  take 
out  the  mixture,  add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  a 
little  salt  and  enough  vinegar  to  make 
it  about  as  thick  as  prepared  horse- 
radish. 

64.     OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 

The  oyster  cocktail,  now  most  popu- 
lar as  the  first  course  of  a  formal  din- 
ner, is  made  as  follows: — chill  oysters 
of  medium  size  and  for  each  30  oysters 
mix  lYz  teaspoons  of  finely  grated 
horseradish,  J4  teaspoon  of  tobasco 
sauce,  21/2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice, 
1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  1^  tablespoons 
Worcestershire  sauce,  1^  tablespoons 
of  tomato  catsup  and  Yz  teaspoon  salt. 
Immerse  the  oysters  in  this  prepared 
sauce  and  serve  in  low  wine  glasses  or 
in  sherbet  cups,  allowing  about  five 
oysters  for  each  person. 

65.  OYSTERS  ROASTED  IN  THE 
SHELL. 

When  oysters  can  be  obtained  with 
the  sea's  aroma  still  upon  them,  an 
oyster  roast  is  a  unique  entertainment, 
affording  a  treat  to  those  who  have 
never  tasted  the  cooked  oyster  at  its 
best. 

Have  a  "piping'  hot  fire. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  shells  and  lay 
them,  unopened,  in  the  quick  oven,  on 
top  of  the  stove, — wherever  it  is  hot. 
When  they  open,  they  are  done.  Pile 
into  dishes  or  pans  and  send  instantly 
to  the  waiting  guests  at  table.  Rye  and 
wheat  bread  or  toast  should  be  served 
with  them,  while  each  guest  should  be 
supplied  with  a  short  knife  for  opening 
the  oysters,  an  oyster  fork,  also  a 
liberal  pat  of  butter,  a  lemon  cut  in 
halves;  while  horseradish,  olives,  salt 
and  pepper  should  be  supplied  to  each 
couple. 


A  large  pan  should  be  placed  upon 
the  floor,  between  each  two  chairs,  to 
receive  the  empty  shells.  The  supply 
for  each  person  should  be  unlimited  as 
the  demand  will  be  great. 

66.     CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

1  pint  oysters. 

1  Yz  cups  white  sauce. 

Y&  teaspoon  celery  salt. 

Clean  and  cook  oysters  until  plump 
and  edges  begin  to  curl;  drain  and  add 
to  thin  white  sauce,  seasoning  with 
celery  salt.  Serve  on  toast  or  in  pattie 
shells,  ramekin  dishes,  or  scallop-shells. 
— (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

67.     FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Use  large  oysters;  drain  in  a  colan- 
der and  turn  upon  a  thick  towel.  Fold 
the  towel  over  the  oysters  and  dry  well, 
by  patting  lightly.  Sprinkle  salt  and 
pepper  over  the  oysters;  have  ready  a 
kettle  of  smoking  hot  lard,  a  bowl 
containing  about  a  pint  of  flour  with 
which  has  been  sifted  a  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder;  a  bowl  containing  two  eggs 
beaten  and  diluted  with  two  tablespoons 
of  cold  water,  and  upon  the  meat 
board,  a  good  supply  of  cracker  or  stale 
bread  crumbs.  Also  have  ready  a  wire 
dish  drainer  in  which  a  piece  of  coarse 
brown  paper  has  been  folded,  ready  for 
draining  the  oysters  after  frying.  Also 
have  ready  the  heated  platter  or  plates 
upon  which  the  oysters  are  to  be  served. 
Much  depends  upon  making  careful 
preparations,  working  quickly  and  serv- 
ing at  once. 

After  the  oysters  have  been  drained 
and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  pick 
up  each  one  lightly  with  a  fork,  roll  in 
the  prepared  flour,  dip  into  the  egg 
batter,  then  roll  in  the  crumbs  and  lay 
into  frying  basket.  When  the  bottom 
of  the  frying  basket  is  comfortably 
covered,  fry  the  oysters.  For  this  pur- 
pose there  should  be  two  frying  baskets. 
Prepare  oysters  and  fill  the  second  bas- 
ket while  tne  first  is  frying,  and  so  on. 
A  second  person  should  watch  the  kettle 
to  prevent  lard  from  taking  fire  and 
to  remove  oysters  as  soon  as  they  are 
a  rich,  golden  brown.  These  oysters 
will  be  crisp  and  puffy. 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


63 


xn 

Meats 


Knowledge  of  marketing  is  best  ac- 
quired by  experience.  Do  not  be  afraid 
to  ask  questions.  Knowledge  is  not 
gained  by  "pretending  to  know."  Profit 
is  sometimes  gained  by  asking  questions 
even  when  one  does  know.  An  accom- 
modating butcher  is  always  glad  to  ex- 
plain from  what  part  of  the  animal 
various  cuts  come,  and  for  what  pur- 
poses they  are  best  adapted.  This  should 
be  learned,  also  the  appearance  of  vari- 
ous cuts  when  fresh  and  their  color 
when  of  good  quality  and  properly 
aged. 

Meat  should  be  moist,  juicy,  firm 
and  fine  grained.  If  the  quality  is 
good,  the  fat  will  be  almost  white, 
firm,  clean  looking  and  dry — not  yel- 
low,   soft    or    oily. 

Always  wipe  meat  as  soon  as  re- 
ceived from  the  market,  with  a  fresh 
piece  of  cheese  cloth,  carefully  remov- 
ing all  dust  and  clotted  blood,  put  on 
a  clean  plate,  cover  with  a  bowl  or 
clean  cloth  and  set  away  from  the  air 
in  a  cool  place. 

68.     ROAST   BEEF. 

^  The  finest  pieces  for  roasting  are  the 
tip  of  the  sirloin  and  the  back  of  the 
rump.  Cuts  from  the  ribs  may  be  roast- 
ed, either  with  the  bone  in  (called  a 
"standing  roast"),  or  boned,  rolled  and 
skewered,  or  tied.  The  best  beef  usu- 
ally has  fine  streaks  of  fat  running 
through  the  "lean," 

Wipe  the  meat  with  cheese  cloth 
wrung  out  in  cold  water.  Cut  away 
any  bits  of  blood  or  dust  which  adhere 
to  suet  or  lean.  When  thoroughly 
cleansed,  rub  over  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour,  put  upon  meat  radc 
in  roaster  and  sear  over  quickly  in  a 
hot  oven.  Then  moderate  the  heat  and 
bake^  more  slowly  until  "done"  as  you 
like  it — rare  or  "well  done." 

Beef  is  considered  best  when  some- 
what rare.  Do  not  cook  it  until  dry. 
Basting  every  ten  minutes  or  so  with 
fat  from  the  pan  or  with  hot  water  in 
which  a  little  butter  has  been  dis- 
solved, keeps  it  moist. 

_  Put  meat  into  pan  with  the  best 
side  down.  When  browned,  turn  it,  to 
complete  roasting.  This  brings  it  out 
with   the  best  side   up   and   handsomely 


browned.     A     covered     roaster     retains 
flavors  and  juices  best. 

69.     BROWN  GRAVY. 

After  removing  meat  from  roaster, 
dip  off  as  much  fat  as  possible,  add 
about  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water, 
work  the  spoon  over  bottom  and  sides 
of  pan  to  loosen  the  caramelized  brown 
which  gives  flavor,  thicken  slightly  with 
a  smooth  paste  made  by  mixing  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  little  water;  allow  gravy  to  bub- 
ble upon  top  of  stove  for  two  or  three 
minutes,  season  with  pepper  and  strain 
into    gravy   bowl. 

70.     YORKSHIRE    PUDDING. 

1  cup  flour. 

%  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup    milk. 

2  eggs. 

Sift  salt  with  the  flour,  stir  in  milk, 
a  little  at  a  time,  forming  a  smooth 
paste.  Beat  and  add  the  eggs.  Use  a 
shallow  square  cake  pan  or  small  drip- 
ping pan;  heat  it  very  hot  and  brush 
inside  with  fat  from  the  pan  in  which 
beef  is  being  roasted.  Pour  in  mix- 
ture, about  H  inch  deep.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  about  20  minutes.  When  well 
risen  and  set  (in  about  15  minutes) 
baste  with  some  of  the  drippings  from 
meat  pan.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve 
around  the  roast. 

The  English  way  is  to  bake  the 
Yorkshire  pudding  in  the  roaster  by 
pouring  it  into  the  pan,  under  the 
meat.  Basting  in  a  separate  pan  pro- 
duces quite  as  good  results,  however, 
and  still  leaves  the  pan  drippings  for 
gravy. 

71.  COLD    ROAST   BEEF. 

Slice  thin  and  serve  cold,  arranging 
the  slices  attractively  upon  a  platter 
and  garnish  v/ith  parsley. 

Serve  with  this  white  sauce,  boiled 
potatoes  and  a  green  vegetable. 

72.  COMPOTE  OF  BEEF. 

Slice  and  cut  rather  small,  the  re- 
maining fragments  of  roast.  Re-heat 
the  brown    gravy,    saved    for   this    pur- 


64 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


pose,  letting  it  bubble  up  until  very 
hot.  Add  a  little  boiling  water  if  the 
quantity  is  not  as  much  as  desired,  or 
a  little  milk  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Ar- 
range meat  upon  a  hot  platter,  pour  on 
the  boiling  hot  gravy  and  serve  at 
once. 

With  this  serving  have  baked  pota- 
toes, a  green  vegetable  and,  if  con- 
venient, sliced  tomatoes. 

73.     BRAISED   BEEF. 

Fragments  of  beef  may  be  quickly 
braised  in  butter  or  beef  drippings  and 
served  with  baked  potatoes  and  a  white 
sauce. 

74.     BREAKFAST   BEEF. 

Mince  fragments  of  beef  in  meat 
chopper.  Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
or  beef  drippings  in  frying  pan,  add 
the  minced  meat,  salt  and  pepper. 
Brown  quickly  and  add  a  cup  of  milk, 
a  bit  of  rich  cream  if  convenient,  or 
a  bit  of  butter.  Pour  over  freshly 
toasted  bread  or  shredded  wheat  bis- 
cuit. 

75.    HUNGARIAN  TIMBALE. 

Chop  Yi  pound  cooked  beef  in  the 
meat  chopper;  add  a  tablespoon  of 
grated  onion;  season  with  celery  salt 
and  pepper;  add  enough  tomato  sauce 
to  moisten  and  then  mix  in  ^  pint  of 
bread  crumbs;  have  ready  2J^  cups  of 
boiled  rice,  seasoned  with  salt  and  a 
little  butter,  and  mixed  with  the  beaten 
white  of  one  egg.  Line  a  small  but- 
tered baking  dish  with  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  the  rice,  fill  with  meat.  Cover  with 
remaining  rice;  set  baking  dish  into  a 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  Yz  hour  in 
a  moderate  oven;  serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 

76.     POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF. 

Six  or  seven  pounds  from  the  top 
of  the  round  make  the  best  pot  roast. 
Solid  meat  that  is  without  much  bone 
and  not  too  much  fat,   is  preferable. 

Skewer  or  tie  the  meat  into  good 
shape  and  rub   with   salt  and  pepper. 

Into  a  large  iron  frying  pan  put  a 
piece  of  beef  suet,  the  size  of  a  large 
egg,  5  peppercorns,  2  cloves,  a_  bay 
leaf,  half  an  onion,  sliced,  a  sprig  of 
parsley  and  a  carrot  sliced.  Fry  these, 
covered,  while  the  suet  is  being  "tried 
out" — about   6   or   8   minutes.     By   this 


time  the  pan  should  be  piping  hot.  Re- 
move seasonings  with  a  spoon  and  put 
them  into  the  large  pot  in  which  meat 
is  to  be  cooked. 

Brown  the  meat  on  all  sides  in  the 
seasoned  "drippings"  in  frying  pan. 
Remove  meat  to  the  large  pot,  rinse 
frying  pan  well  with  a  little  boiling 
water  and  empty  into  the  meat  pot. 
Half  cover  the  meat  with  boiling  water 
and  allow  to  simmer  until  tender. 

If  the  water  has  been  well  evapo- 
rated leaving  but  little  liquid  in  the  pot, 
a  brown  gravy  may  be  made  by  thick- 
ening a  little  with  flour  and  water. 
Cook  a  moment,  strain  and  season  with 
a  little  pepper. 

Garnish  with  any  desired  vegetable, 
these  having  been  cooked  separately, 
arranging  them  in  attractive  little 
mounds  around  the  meat.  Peas  and 
carrots,  cauliflower  and  peas,  cauli- 
flower and  beet,  peas  and  turnip,  etc., 
make   desirable  combinations. 

Remember,  the  parsley  garnish  is  al- 
ways attractive. 

77.      BROILED    BEEFSTEAK. 

The  choicest  steaks  are  the  club  or 
Delmonico  cut,  also  known  as  "short 
steaks,"  sirloin,  porterhouse  and  ten- 
derloin. The  top  (upper  side)  of  the 
round  also   makes   very   good   steak. 

The  entire  slice  of  the  round  may  be 
purchased  to  better  advantage,  and  the 
top  side  and  bone  used  for  steak, 
while  the  lower  side  may  be  ground 
in  your  meat  chopper  and  used  for 
meat  balls  or  Hamburg  steak.  Meat  for 
steaks  should  be  at  least  one  inch  thick. 
Many  like  them  an  inch  and  a  half.  A 
good  inch  is  about  right. 

Wipe  the  steak  with  a  damp  cloth, 
trim  off  superfluous  fat,  pound  a  little 
with  wooden  pestle;  grease  the  broiler 
by  rubbing  with  suet,  arrange  steak  in 
it  and  hold  very  close  to  glowing  coals. 
Count  seven  and  turn;  count  seven 
and  turn  again;  count  seven  and  turn 
once  more,  count  seven  once  more  and 
hold  a  little  further  from  the  coals, 
the  outside  being  seared  over  to  hold 
the  juices.  Cook  about  two  and  a 
half  or  three  minutes,  turn  and  cook 
about  the  same  length  of  time.  Six 
or  eight  minutes  over  the  right  fire 
should  broil  a  steak  which  should  be 
delicately  rare  in  the  center. 

Serve  steak  on  a  hot  platter,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  spread  with  maitre  d'hotel 
butter,  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon 
and  sprays  of  water  cress  or  parsley. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


65 


78.     PAN  BROILED  BEEFSTEAK. 

If  one  prefers  a  steak  cooked  in  the 
pan,  prepare  and  serve  exactly  as  for 
broiling. 

Use  a  cast  iron  frying  pan  and  have 
it  very  hot.  Grease  with  suet,  put  in 
the  steak,  count  ten,  lift  steak  from 
pan,  count  ten  while  pan  heats,  turn 
steak  into  pan  again,  count  ten,  lift 
steak  and  count  ten,  turn  steak  into 
pan  again  and  fry  about  five  minutes 
upon  each  side.  It  should  be  cooked 
about  as  much  as  when  broiled.  Three 
or  four  tablespoons  of  water  may  be 
used  to  rinse  the  frying  pan  well  and 
this  rich  liquid  poured  upon  the  steak 
which  has  been  spread  with  maitre 
d'hotel   butter. 

79.     FRENCH  SAUTE  OF  TENDER- 
LOIN. 

2  pounds  beef  tenderloin  or  steak 
cut  thick. 

1   onion. 

3  tablespoons  of  butter. 

1  tablespoon  of  flour. 

2  cups  of  cream. 

2  tablespoons    Worcestershire    sauce. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

Cut  the  beef  into  slices  about  the  size 
of  a  half  dollar  and  a  quarter  inch 
thick.  Chop  the  onion  and  brown  in 
a  sauce  pan  with  the  butter;  add  sliced 
meat  and  fry  five  minutes;  sprinkle 
over  with  flour,  add  the  cream  and 
Worcestershire  sauce;  add  the  chopped 
parsley.  Cook  for  two  or  three  mo- 
ments and  serve  in  a  warmed  vege- 
table dish,  or  deep  platter.  Garnish 
with  olives. 


80.  FILLET  OF  BEEF  WITH  PEAS. 

2  pounds  of  beef  tenderloin  or  steak. 

2  tablespoons  of  butter. 

Scant  tablespoon  of  flour. 

J^   of  a  cup  stock. 

Slice  the  tenderloin  about  one  inch 
thick  or  cut  the  steak  into  one  inch 
strips  about  two  inches  long.  Brown 
in  butter  in  a  frying  pan  for  seven 
minutes  or  so.  Place  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter and  set  into  warming  oven.  To 
the  juice  and  butter  in  frying  pan,  add 
the  flour,  stock  (in  the  absence  of  stock 
water  may  be  used),  boil  up  well  and 
pour  this  sauce  over  the  steak.  With 
this,  serve  French  peas  in  a  separate 
vegetable  dish. 


8L     BEEF  TENDERLOIN  WITH 
TOMATO  SAUCE. 

2  pounds  beef  tenderloin   or   steak. 
1^   tablespoons  of  butter. 

5^  of  a  cup  stock. 

3  tablespoons   of  tomato  catsup. 

1  tablespoon   Worcestershire   sauce. 

Prepare  as  for  Fillet  of  Beef.  When 
the  beef  has  been  removed  to  the  plat- 
ter, also  add  to  the  contents  of  frying 
pan  the  tomato  catsup,  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  stock.  Boil  for  5  minutes 
and  pour  over  the  meat. 

82.     MEAT  BALLS. 

The  lower  side  and  vein  end  of 
round  steak  may  be  used  for  meat 
balls  which  are  very  nutritious  and 
easily  digested. 

Use  the  meat  cutter  and  cut  the 
steak  using  little  or  no  fat.  Salt  the 
meat  slightly  and  shape  with  the  hands 
into  two  inch  balls,  flatten  to  about 
one  inch  thick  and  fry  quickly  in  a  very 
hot  pan,  greased  with  suet.  Some 
persons  with  delicate  stomachs  can  eat 
these  meat  balls  just  barely  seared 
over,  but  not  cooked  more,  when  other 
foods  are  quite  indigestible. 

When  well  browned  and  served  with 
maitre  d'hotel  butter,  and  gravy  from 
the  pan,  and  garnished  with  sliced 
lemon  and  parsley,  they  are  very  palat- 
able. 

83.  HAMBURG  STEAK. 

Chop  meat  as  for  meat  balls.  In  each 
pound  of  beef  allow  a  tablespoon  of 
chopped  onion,  also  salt  (about  a  half 
teaspoon).  Shape,  cook  and  serve  as 
for   meat  balls. 

84.  BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

With  strips  of  cloth  bind  six  or  eight 
pounds  of  beef  from  round,  into  cir- 
cular shape.  Made  incisions  with  a 
sharp  knife  and  into  these  press  strips 
of  salt  pork  j/z  inch  thick  and  J^  inch 
wide.  Make  other  incisions  and  into 
these  press  bread  stuffing  seasoned  as 
for  poultry.  Heat  drippings  or  trim- 
mings from  salt  pork  and  in  this  brown 
the  outside  of  the  meat.  Add  a  sprig 
or  two  of  parsley,  2  onions  and  ^  a 
carrot  sliced  thin;  half  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  simmer  until  tender. 
Five  to  seven  hours  may  be  required; 
replenish  with  hot  water  as  needed.  An 


66 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


enamel  iron  pot  with  tight  fitting  cover 
is  the  best  utensil  for  this  dish. 

A  rack  in  the  bottom  makes  turning 
unnecessary.  Garnish  with  boiled  onions, 
season,  baste  with  butter  and  brown  in 
a  hot  oven.  Skim  fat  from  liquid  in 
which  the  meat  has  cooked.  Thicken 
remaining  liquid  with  flour  and  water; 
drain  and  serve  as  a  sauce  with  the 
meat.  Liquid  should  have  been  boiled 
down  to  one  quart  or  less. — (Mrs. 
Janet  McKenzie  Hill.) 

85.     BEEF  STEW. 

For  stewing,  the  chuck  and  even  the 
neck  may  be  used.  These  are  inexpen- 
sive cuts,  but,  if  the  beef  is  of  good 
quality  and  well  aged,  these  are  quite 
tender,  cooked  in  this  way,  and  are 
highly  nutritious.  Or,  5  pounds  of  aitch 
bone  may  be  used. 

Have  the  meat  cut  into  IJ^  inch 
cubes  and  the  bone  cracked  open.  Try 
out  some  of  the  fat  in  a  frying  pan  and 
when  very  hot  brown  half  of  the  meat 
by  frying  quickly  until  a  caramel  brown. 
Put  all  into  an  enameled  or  aluminum 
stew  pot,  just  cover  with  boiling  water 
(also  add  rinsings  from  the  frying  pan) 
and  for  each  pound  of  meat  add  3 
peppercorns,  J^  bay  leaf  and  one  clove. 
Boil  for  five  minutes,  then  simmer 
slowly  from  2  to  3  hours,  or  until  meat 
is  tender.  Those  who  like  the  flavor 
of  onion  may  add  a  half  onion,  sliced. 

About  a  half  hour  before  it  is  done, 
remove  bones,  most  of  the  fat  and  skin. 
Then  add  salt  and  pepper  and  potatoes 
pared  and  cut  into  J4  inch  slices. 

The  liquid  should  have  boiled  down  so 
as  to  not  quite  cover. 

Make  dumplings  (see  No.  426)  and 
cook  for  7  minutes,  letting  the  batter 
rest  upon  the  meat  and  potato  but  not 
in  the  liquid. 

If  desired,  the  gravy  may  be  thick- 
ened a  little  after  removing  dumplings 
by  adding  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour 
made  into  a  smooth  paste  by  stirring  a 
pinch  of  salt  into  the  flour  and  adding 
a  little  water.  The  salt  prevents 
"lumping"  of  the  flour. 

Serve  a  stew  upon  a  deep  platter, 
with  dumplings  arranged  upon  a  sepa- 
rate one.  Green  peas  or  spinach  are 
desirable  as  a  vegetable  to  be  served 
with  a  stew. 


86.     HUNGARIAN    GULASCH. 

(As   prepared   by   the   Hungarian 
Shepherds.) 

Two  hours  are  required  for  making 
this  famous  Hungarian  dish.  Pare  and 
chop  fine  one  small  onion.  Fry  ten 
minutes  in  2  tablespoons  butter,  tak- 
ing care  not  to  brown  or  burn. 

Have  ready  IJ^  pounds  of  beef  (part 
beef  and  part  veal  may  also  be  used). 
The  beef  may  be  from  the  under  side 
of  the  round  or  any  other  good  but  in- 
expensive cut.  Cut  into  ^  inch  cubes 
and  add  to  onion  and  butter.  Draw 
back  from  the  fire  and  allow  to  simmer, 
closely  covered,  for  45  minutes.  Then 
draw  forward  and  add  1  full  cup  of 
tomato  (either  fresh  or  canned)  salt  to 
taste,  a  little  black  pepper,  and  yi  tea- 
spoon paprika.  More  or  less  paprika 
may  be  added  as  desired,  but  if  served 
in  Hungarian  style  the  gulasch  should 
be  hot. 

Now  add  boiling  water  to  cover  well 
and  cook  a  half  hour,  then  add  about  5 
potatoes  which  have  been  pared,  cut 
into  H  inch  dice  and  allowed  to  stand 
in  cold  salted  water  for  20  minutes. 
Cook  for  15  minutes  after  adding  po- 
tato and  add  more  water  if  necessary. 
There  should  be  plenty  of  liquid,  when 
done,  to  cover  well. 

Serve  at  once.  Some  fresh  cooked 
vegetable  and  lettuce  salad  combine  well 
with  gulasch.  May  be  re-heated  the 
second  day  and  found  quite  as  good  as 
at  the  first. 

87.     BEEF   WITH   ONIONS. 

2  pounds  boiled  beef. 
12  onions. 

3  tablespoons  butter. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

2  cups  of  beef  stock. 
Salt  and  pepper. 

Slice  the  beef  quite  fine  and  arrange 
in  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Slice  the 
onions  and  let  them  cook  in  a  stew 
pan  with  three  tablespoons  of  butter 
until  a  light  brown.  Sprinkle  over  a 
tablespoon  of  flour,  add  2  cups  of 
stock  and  allow  to  boil  up  a  moment. 
Pour  over  the  beef  and  bake  one  hour. 

88.     BEEF  NEW  ENGLAND  STYLE. 

Bits  of  beef  or  other  meat  may  be 
nicely  served  in  the  following  manner: 

Grease  a  small  baking  dish;  cover  the 
bottom    with    mashed    potatoes;    add    a 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


67 


thick  layer  of  beef  or  any  other  meat, 
chopped  in  the  meat  cutter;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice, 
and  moisten  with  brown  gravy  and 
beef  stock,  or  milk.  Cover  with  a 
layer  of  mashed  potatoes,  brush  over 
with  beaten  egg,  dust  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  heat- 
ed through. 

89.     BRESLAU  OF  BEEF. 

2  cups  of  cold  minced  beef. 

Yi  cup  of  stock. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

1/2  cup  of  dry  bread  crumbs. 

1  cup  of  cream. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

1  level  teaspoon  salt. 

J4  teaspoon  black  pepper. 

Paprika. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  mix  all  ingredi- 
ents thoroughly.  Brush  breslau  cups 
with  melted  butter  (any  individual 
earthen  dishes  which  will  stand  oven 
heat  may  be  used).  Press  the  breslau 
into  the  cups,  stand  them  in  a  baking 
pan  partly  filled  with  boiling  water  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  30  minutes. 
When  done,  turn  out  upon  a  platter 
and  pour  tomato  sauce  around  them. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

90.     ROAST  BEEF  CROQUETTES. 

Season  cold  beef  minced,  in  the  meat 
chopper,  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice,  Worcestershire 
sauce  or  beef  extract,  and  for  each  cup 
of  meat,  two  tablespoons  of  cracker 
crumbs  and  a  tablespoon  of  melted  but- 
ter. If  not  moist  enough  to  handle, 
add  a  bit  of  beef  gravy. 

Shape  into  croquettes,  roll  in  crumbs 
then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.  Serve  with  white  or  tomato 
sauce. 

91.     BEEFSTEAK  PIE. 

4  pounds  of  beef  round  (or  any 
tender  cut. 

1   pound    flour. 

1   teaspoon  baking  powder. 

6  tablespoons  butter. 

1  cup  of  water. 

1  onion. 

6  potatoes. 

3  hard  boiled  eggs. 

1   egg. 

1  cup  stock. 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce  or 
beef  extract. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


Make  z.  pie  crust  in  which  is  sifted 
the  baking  powder;  4  tablespoons  of 
butter,  1  cup  of  water  and  a  little 
salt.  Divide  this  dough  into  two  parts 
and  roll  quite  thin.  Place  half  in  a 
deep  baking  dish,  taking  care  that  the 
dough  falls  over  the  edge  about  Y^ 
inch.  This  to  be  folded  over  the  up- 
per crust.  Cook  the  beef  as  for  Fillet 
of  Tenderloin  and  when  half  cooked, 
place  in  a  baking  dish  with  three  hard 
boiled  eggs  sliced,  and  the  potatoes 
cut  into  Yt  inch  slices.  Into  the  pan 
in  which  meat  was  fried,  put  1  cup  of 
stock,  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
or  beef  extract,  salt  and  pepper;  stir 
well  and  pour  over  the  meat.  Arrange 
the  upper  crust  in  place  having  first 
cut  several  slits  to  allow  escape  of 
steam.  Fold  the  under  crust  over  and 
pinch  into  place.  Brush  over  with  a 
beaten    egg   and   bake   about    one    hour. 


92. 


NEW  ENGLAND  BOILED 
DINNER. 


Wipe  a  four-pound  piece  of  corned 
beef,  tie  into  shape,  cover  with  cold 
water  in  a  large  stew  pot,  and  bring 
slowly  to  a  boil.  Boil  five  minutes 
and  empty  off  the  water.  See  that 
none  of  the  scum  adheres  to  the  meat. 
Replace  meat  into  pot,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  simmer  slowly  until  ten- 
der. Partly  cool  in  the  water  in  which 
it  was  cooked,  remove  to  a  plate  and 
allow  the  liquid  to  cool  thoroughly,  that 
the  grease  may  form  into  a  cake.  Re- 
move this  grease  and,  an  hour  before 
dinner  time,  put  the  pot  of  liquid  back 
upon  the  stove.  Add  a  cabbage  quar- 
tered, a  large  turnip  or  two  small  ones, 
cut  into  half-inch  slices,  and  3  car- 
rots, quartered.  In  15  minutes  add  ten 
or  twelve  potatoes,  pared,  and  the 
meat. 

Meanwhile,  boil  two  beets  of  medium 
size  in  the  usual  way,  cooking  them  the 
full  time  required  for  beets.  Ten  min- 
utes before  serving,  put  the  beets  into 
corned  beef  pot,  to  gather  the  charac- 
teristic flavor.  If  cooked  together  in 
the  corned  beef  liquid,  the  salt  would 
destroy  the  color  of  the  beets.  When 
all  vegetables  are  cooked,  take  up  cab- 
bage on  separate  dish  and  the  corned 
beef  on  a  very  large  platter  with  part 
of    the    vegetables    arranged    around    it. 

More  vegetables  than  needed  for  din- 
ner are  usually  cooked  in  order  to  have 
plenty  of  material  for  the  famous  "New 
England  Hash"  for  the  next  morning's 
breakfast. 


68 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


93.     NEW   ENGLAND   HASH. 

Chop  in  the  meat  cutter  enough  to 
make  1J4  cups  chopped  corned  beef, 
lYz  cups  potatoes,  5^  cup  turnip,  a  bit 
of  carrot  and  a  heaping  cup  of  beets. 
Plenty  of  beets  make  this  hash  most 
delicious. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  or  beef 
drippings  in  frying  pan,  having  pan 
very  hot.  Moisten  chopped  ingredi- 
ents with  a  half  cup  of  milk,  add  a  bit 
of  pepper,  turn  into  buttered  pan  and 
cook  over  hot  fire  3  or  4  minutes.  Do 
not  stir.  Remove  to  a  place  not  hot 
enough  to  burn.  Cover  and  cook  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  out  upon  a 
round  chop  platter  (heated)  and  a 
golden  brown  crust  should  cover  the 
hash.     Garnish    with    parsley    sprays. 

Serve  home-made  cucumber  or  to- 
mato pickle  with  this  satisfying  break- 
fast dish. 

94.     CORNED  BEEF  HASH. 

Remove  skin  and  gristle  from  cooked 
corned  beef  and  chop  the  meat;  use 
mostly  lean.  To  chopped  meat,  add  an 
equal  quantity  of  cold  boiled  chopped 
potatoes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
put  into  a  hot  buttered  frying  pan, 
moisten  with  milk  or  cream,  stir  until 
well  mixed.  Spread  evenly,  then  place 
on  a  part  of  the  range  where  it  may 
slowly  brown  underneath.  Turn  and  put 
on  a  hot  platter.  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley.— (Fannie  M.   Farmer.) 

95.     BOILED  TONGUE. 

Thoroughly  wash  a  corned  ("pickled") 
beef  tongue.  Cover  well  with  cold  wa- 
ter in  a  large  pot,  cover  and  bring 
slowly  to  boiling.  Boil  5  minutes  and 
pour  off  the  water.  Rinse  the  tongue 
with  boiling  water,  pour  this  off,  then 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook 
slowly  until  tongue  is  very  tender — • 
about  four  hours. 

Partly  cool  in  the  water  in  which  it 
was  boiled,  remove  tongue  to  a  plate 
and  skin  it  carefully,  also  removing 
small  bones  and  fat  at  the  base  of  the 
tongue. 

Cool  the  tongue  and  serve  it,  sliced 
very  thin,  with  garnish  of  parsley, 

96.  BEEF  TONGUE— FRENCH 
STYLE. 

1  beef  tongue. 

2  carrots. 
2  onions. 

1  celery    stalk. 


Freshen  tongue  in  cold  water  about 
four  hours  (water  should  be  changed 
at  least  four  times),  place  the  tongue 
in  a  kettle  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  well;  add  the  carrots,  onions, 
celery,  all  sliced  and  cook  four  hours. 
Dip  the  tongue  in  cold  water,  skin  it, 
put  again  into  the  stock  in  which  it 
was  cooked  and  as  soon  as  it  is  warm, 
place  in  a  warm  dish  with  green  parsley 
and  serve  with  pepper  sauce.  (French 
Chef.) 

97.     TRIPE   IN   BATTER. 

Dry  pickled  tripe  by  patting  between 
folds  of  a  clean  napkin. 

Make  a  batter  by  mixing  J^  cup 
flour  and  ^  teaspoon  salt  with  J^  cup 
cold  water  added  gradually  to  make  a 
smooth  paste.  To  this  add  one  egg  well 
beaten. 

Cut  tripe  into  pieces  about  3  inches 
square,  dip  in  the  batter  and  fry  in 
about  five  tablespoons  of  hot  beef  drip- 
pings. 

98.     CHIPPED  BEEF  IN  CREAM. 

Break  thin  slices  of  dried  beef  into 
^  inch  pieces.  Cover  with  boiling  wa- 
ter and  allow  to  stand  ten  minutes. 
Drain  and  proceed  the  same  as  for  cod- 
fish in  cream. — (See  No.  53.) 

99.     VEAL. 

Veal  should  be  first  seared  to  re- 
tain juices,  then  given  a  long,  slow 
heat  until  thoroughly  cooked.  It  should 
never  be  served  rare  like  beef,  or  it 
will  be  less  palatable  and  much  less 
digestible.  Veal  is  not  as  easily  di- 
gested as  beef  or  as  highly  flavored, 
but  it  is  delicate  and  therefore  popu- 
lar. 

100.     ROAST  VEAL. 

The  loin,  the  leg  or  the  breast  are 
the  parts  from  which  a  roast  of  veal  is 
chosen.  The  leg  is  both  juicy  and  eco- 
nomical, also  best  in  appearance,  though 
for  economy  the  breast  may  be  selected. 
The  shoulder,  neck  and  fore  shank  may 
also  be  included,  if  a  large  piece  be  re- 
quired, the  breast  and  shoulder  boned 
and  kept  in  one  piece,  making  an  ex- 
cellent roast,  while  the  bones,  the  neck 
and  the  shank,  with  possibly  a  bit  of 
pork,  will  give  for  the  second  meal,  a 
most  delicious  stew  and  a  liberal  quan- 
tity of  rich  stock.  This  brings  down 
the  average  price,  as  the  breast   (about 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


69 


6  or  7  pounds)  usually  sells  for  15  cents 
a  pound,  while  the  neck,  shoulder  joint 
and  shank  are  but  12  cents.  From  a 
good  milk  fed  calf,  the  meat  of  all 
these  parts  will  be  found  a  delicate 
pinkish  tint,  the  fat  white  and  crumbly, 
the  bones  when  cracked  open,  a  hand- 
some red;  while  the  flavor  when  cooked 
is    delicious    and   the    quality   tender. 

For  a  plain  roast,  wipe  off  the  meat 
with  damp  cheese  cloth,  rub  over  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  tiour,  and 
place  in  a  covered  roaster.  A  thick 
earthen  roaster  is  best  for  veal,  as  it 
transmits  the  heat  slowly,  holds  it  long, 
and  keeps  the  temperature  even — just 
the  conditions  best  adapted  to  slow 
roasting.  Into  the  roaster  pour  a  cup 
of  boiling  water  in  which  a  large  table- 
spoon of  butter  has  been  dissolved, 
coyer,  and  put  into  a  hot  oven,  moder- 
ating the  heat  after  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes, and  roast  slowly,  allowing  from 
two  to  four  hours,  according  to  size. 
Put  the  veal  into  the  roaster  with  the 
best  side  down,  and  turn  when  about 
half  done,  to  brown  the  best  side  last. 

In  an  iron  roaster,  veal  should  be 
basted  every  15  or  20  minutes,  but  in 
the  earthen  roaster  or  "Dutch  oven" 
the  veal  need  be  basted  only  2  or  3 
times  as  the  steam  bastes  it  sufficiently. 
With  this  roaster,  veal  may  be  put  in 
before  church  and,  with  a  moderate 
fire,  safely  left  to  roast  itself  while  the 
family  attends  service. 

101.     STUFFED   VEAL. 

If  boned,  the  cavity  left  by  the  bone 
may  be  filled  with  stuffing  made  as  for 
poultry.  A  bit  of  grated  lemon  peel 
may  be  added  to  veal  stuffing  if  de- 
sired. Tie  securely  with  strips  of  fresh, 
old  linen  and  prepare  and  roast  as  di- 
rected above. 

102.  VEAL   GRAVY. 

If  there  is  much  fat  in  the  pan 
drippings,  dip  off  most  of  it  .after  re- 
moving the  meat,  add  a  little  hot  water, 
rinse  well  the  sides  of  the  roaster  to 
dissolve  the  rich,  brown,  caramelized 
bits  which  give  flavor.  Thicken  very 
slightly  with  a  smooth  paste  made  of 
flour,  a  bit  of  salt  and  water;  cook 
a  couple  of  minutes,  season  with  a  little 
pepper  and  strain  into  gravy  bowl. 

103.  VEAL  POT  PIE. 

Use  the  shoulder,  joint,  neck  and 
fore  shank   (3  to  5  pounds).     Cut  into 


2  _  inch  pieces,  crack  the  bones,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  add  6  peppercorns, 
a  bay  leaf,  3  cloves,  half  an  onion, 
sliced;  boil  briskly  for  5  minutes,  then 
simmer  slowly  for  2  or  3  hours.  If 
desired  richer,  add  a  pound  of  fresh 
pork,  part  lean  and  part  fat.  If  water 
boils  away,  add  just  enough  to  keep 
the  meat  nearly  covered.  When  thor- 
oughly done,  drain  the  stock  into  sepa- 
rate vessel,  catching'  meat  and  bones 
in  colander.  Pick  out  and  cast  away 
the  bones  and  superfluous  gristle,  ten- 
dons and  fat.  Replace  in  the  pot  as 
much  meat  as  desired  for  dinner.  Nearly 
cover  with  the  stock,  add  potatoes  pared 
and  cut  into  1/2  inch  slices,  and  cook 
20   minutes. 

Make  dumplings  and  drop  with  a 
spoon  upon  the  meat  and  potato,  but 
do  not  allow  dumplings  to  rest  in  the 
liquid.  If  necessary  dip  out  a  little 
of  the  stock,  cover  tightly  and  steam 
dumplings  8  minutes.  Take  up  the 
dumplings  upon  separate  dish.  Thicken 
gravy  slightly,  season  with  pepper  and 
serve  meat,  potatoes  and  gravy  in  a 
deep  platter  or  covered  dish. 

104.     VEAL  PIE. 

Veal  may  be  used  instead  of  beef  in 
making  a  meat  pie  with  pastry  crust. — 
(See  Beefsteak  Pie,  No.  91.) 

105.     VEAL   CUTLETS. 

Veal  Cutlets  may  be  sliced  from  the 
leg,  from  the  loin  or  from  the  ribs. 
Loin  and  rib  cutlets  are  very  sweet  but 
have  more  bone.  The  leg  cutlets  or 
steaks  are  nearly  all  solid  meat.  Cut- 
lets may  be  cooked  slowly  in  butter 
or  beef  drippings,  being  finally  browned 
handsomely;  or  they  may  be  breaded 
by  rolling  in  cracker  crumbs,  dipping 
in  beaten  egg  (diluted  with  2  table- 
spoons cold  water  to  each  egg),  then 
roll  cutlets  in  cracker  crumbs  again 
and  saute  slowly  in  butter  or  beef 
drippings. 

Serve  cutlets  either  with  white  sauce, 
poured  around  the  cutlets  or  served 
apart,  or  serve  a  tomato  sauce  poured 
over   them.     Garnish    with    parsley. 

106.     VEAL   CROQUETTES. 

2  cups   chopped   cold  cooked  veal. 

yi   teaspoon  salt. 

J/^   of  a  teaspoon  pepper.. 

Few  grains  of  cayenne. 

Few  drops  of  onion  juice. 


70 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


Yolk  of  one  egg. 

1  cup  thick   sauce. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  I£ 
convenient  use  rich  white  stock  in  place 
of  milk  when  making  the  thick  sauce. 
Shape  into  croquettes;  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs,  then  in  a  beaten  egg,  diluted 
with  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water;  then 
in  crumbs  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown 
in   deep   fat. —  (Fannie   M.    Farmer.) 

107.     VEAL  IN  BUTTER. 

Slices  of  veal  may  be  browned  quickly 
in  butter  or  beef  drippings.  Spread 
with  maitre  d'hotel  butter  and  serve 
with  baked  potatoes  and  green  peas. 

108.  SCALLOPED  VEAL. 

Proceed  as  for  Scalloped  Fish  (see 
No.^  61),  having  the  cold  veal  cut  into 
J4  inch  cubes. 

109.  BREAKFAST  VEAL. 

Fragments  of  veal  may  be  minced 
and  served  as  in  No.  74,  for  breakfast. 

110.     SABLE   ISLANDS. 

Mince  veal  fragments  in  meat  chop- 
per, brown  them  well  in  butter,  adding 
a  bit  of  chopped  parsley. 

Prepare  a  white  sauce  and  have  ready 
slices  of  toast  or  shredded  wheat  bis- 
cuit (if  the  latter,  hollow  out  the  top 
about  a  half  inch).  Pour  boiling  water 
quickly  over  toast  or  biscuit  and  quick- 
ly off-  again  to  just  heat  and  moisten, 
spread  on  bits  of  butter,  dust  with  salt. 
Cover  toast  or  fill  cavities  of  biscuit 
with  mounds  of  the  browned  meat,  and 
pour  the  white  sauce  around  and  over 
the  slices  but  not  over  the  meat,  leav- 
ing the  dark  islands  of  meat,  each  of 
which  may  be  garnished  with  a  tiny 
sprig  of  parsley. 

111.     BLANQUETTE  OF  VEAL. 

Re-heat  two  cups  of  cold  roast  veal; 
cut  into  small  strips  in  IJ^  cups  of 
thin  white  sauce.  Serve  in  a  potato 
border  and  sprinkle  over  all,  finely 
chopped  parsley. — (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

112.     RAGOUT  OF  VEAL. 

Re-heat  two  cups  of  cold  roast  veal, 
cut  into  cubes  in  Ij^  cups  of  brown 
sauce;  seasoned  with  1  teaspoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice  and  a  few  grains  of  cay- 
enne.— (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 


113.     VEAL  LOAF. 

Separate  a  knuckle  of  veal  into  pieces 
by  sawing  through  the  bone.  Wipe,  put 
into  kettle  with  1  pound  of  lean  veal 
and  one  onion;  cover  with  boiling  water 
and_  cook  slowly  until  veal  is  tender. 
Drain  and  finely  chop  meat;  season 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper;  garnish 
bottom  of  mould  with  parsley  and  slices 
of  hard  boiled  eggs.  Put  in  a  layer  of 
meat,  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  hard 
boiled  eggs,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
parsley  and  cover  with  remaining  meat. 
In  filling  the  mould,  stand  slices  of 
eggs  around  the  edge  so  they  will  ap- 
pear on  the  sides  of  the  loaf  when  it 
is  slipped  out  of  the  mould.  Pour 
over  all,  the  liquid  in  which  meat 
was  cooked.  This  should  be  reduced 
to  one  cupful.  Press  and  chill;  turn 
out  upon  a  fiat  platter  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

LIVER. 

Calf's  liver  is  best,  though  beef  liver 
may  be  used.  Always  be  sure  that  liver 
is  of  a  bright,  clear  color  and  that  it  is 
without  spots  or  discolorations,  other- 
wise  it  is  diseased   and   unfit   for   food. 

114.     LIVER    AND    BACON. 

Order  calf's  liver,  cut  into  J^  inch 
slices.  Cover  with  boiling  water  for 
five  minutes.  Wipe  with  a  napkin  or 
cheesecloth,  dredge  lightly  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  in  flour,  dip  into  beaten 
egg  diluted  with  two  tablespoons  of 
water,  roll  in  flour  again  or  in  fine 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  bacon  fat 
tried  out  from  thin  slices  of  bacon 
which  have  already  been  fried  crisp 
and  laid  aside  upon  a  hot  platter. 

Fry  the  liver  seven  or  eight  minutes, 
and  serve  with  a  piece  of  bacon  and  a 
sprig  of  parsley  upon  the  top  of  each 
slice   of   liver. 

115.    BROILED  LIVER  AND  STEAK. 

Broil  beefsteak  as  usual.  Dip  ^ 
inch  slices  of  calf's  liver  into  melted 
butter,  broil  over  glowing  coals,  serve 
liver  and  steak  upon  the  same 
platter,  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter  and 
parsley    garnish. 

116.     BREAKFAST    LIVER. 

^  Mince  finely  cold  calf's  liver  and  a 
bit  of  cold  beefsteak;  season  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  butter  and  heat  in  a  sauce 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


71 


pan;  moisten  with  cream  or  milk. 
Serve  upon  freshly  toasted  bread  or  upon 
shredded  wheat  biscuit. — (M.   S.  S.) 

117.     MUTTON    AND    LAMB. 

Mutton  and  lamb  are  usually  well 
done,  though  mutton  may  be  slightly 
rare,  if  liked.  Lamb,  however,  is  not 
wholesome  unless  thoroughly   cooked. 

Lamb  is  distinguished  from  mutton 
by  the  pink  or  reddish  color  of  lamb 
bones,  those  of  mutton  being  white. 

Always  remove  the  loose,  fibrous  fat 
(or  caul)  around  the  outside  of  a  leg 
of  lamb  or  mutton,  and,  in  mutton,  strip 
off  the  pink  outer  skin.  This  will 
largely  obviate  the  strong  flavor,  so  ob- 
jectionable to  most  people.  If  fresh 
and  good,  the  fat  should  strip  off  read- 
ily. 


118. 


ROAST  OF  LAMB  OR 
MUTTON, 


Prepare  leg  of  lamb  or  mutton  as 
above  described,  wipe  off  with  damp 
cloth,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge 
with  flour,  arrange  on  rack  in  roaster; 
pour  a  cup  of  boiling  water  into  the 
pan  and  set  into  a  hot  oven  for  15 
minutes.  Then  moderate  the  heat  and 
roast  very  slowly  until  thoroughly  done, 
allowing  from  1^4  to  1^  hours.  The 
thick  earthen  roaster  or  Dutch  oven  is 
desirable  for  lamb  and  mutton.  When 
it  has  been  in  15  minutes,  baste  and 
cover.  If  the  earthen  roaster  be  used, 
it  need  be  basted  only  once  or  twice. 
In  an  iron  roaster  it  should  be  basted 
every  15  minutes. 

Serve  green  peas  or  spinach  as  vege- 
table, also  a  tart  jelly,  current  being 
the   favorite. 

119.     CROWN  ROAST. 


mings  on  each  side  in  one  piece  and 
roll  this  over  and  over  backwards.. 
When  the  ends  are  joined,  a  circle  or 
crown  of  meat  is  formed.  If  neces- 
sary, trim  the  bones  to  make  all  of  the 
same  length.  Cover  the  ends  of  bones 
securely  with  strips  of  salt  pork.  Rub 
with  salt,  set  in  a  hot  oven  10  or  15 
minutes,  then  reduce  the  heat,  and  if 
necessary  to  keep  drippings  from  burn- 
ing add  hot  water.  Baste  with  the  drip- 
pings and  cook  from  45  to  60  minutes, 
basting  often.  Press  a  cup  into  the 
center  of  the  circle  of  meat  to  insure 
its  shape.  To  serve,  fill  the  center  from 
which  the  cup  has  been  taken  with  green 
peas,  blanched  chestnuts,  cooked  tender 
in  stock,  Saratoga  chips  or  French  fried 
potatoes.  A  crown  roast  usually  sells 
for  25  cents  a  pound,  the  flank  being 
included  in  weighing  the  meat.  Often 
the  flank  is  not  sent  with  the  crown  un- 
less by  special  request.  As  the  flank 
makes  up  nearly  one-half  of  the  weight 
paid  for,  it  should  be  claimed,  being 
good  for  a  stew. — (Mrs.  Janet  Mc- 
Kenzie  Hill.) 

120.     BOILED    MUTTON. 

The  leg  or  shoulder  are  the  pieces 
usually  boiled.  Put  over  the  fire,  using 
a  good  sized  pot.  Barely  cover  the 
meat  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  about 
10  minutes;  then  simmer  until  tender. 
Season  with  salt  when  half  cooked,  a 
few  slices  of  onion,  carrot  and  turnip, 
or  two  or  three  stalks  of  celery  may  be 
added  while  cooking.  When  tender, 
brush  over  the  meat  with  drawn  butter 
sauce  and  sprinkle  with  fine  chopped 
parsley.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  sauce, 
to  a  cup  of  which  two  tablespoons  of 
capers  or  chopped  pickles  have  been 
added.  The  broth  makes  a  particularly 
good  tomato  soup. — (Mrs.  Janet  Mc- 
Kenzie  Hill.) 


A  crown  roast  is  the  most  easily 
served  and  at  the  same  time  is  the 
handsomest  that  has  been  devised.  It 
may  be  fashioned  from  a  full  loin,  but 
is  of  more  perfect  shape  when  cut  from 
both  loins  and  fastened  together  at  the 
sides.  Cut  the  same  number  of  ribs 
from  both  sides  of  a  saddle  of  mutton, 
selecting  ribs  on  one  side  to  correspond 
to  those  on  the  other.  Cut  the  ribs 
apart  at  the  backbone,  but  separate  the 
chops  no  farther.  Trim  the  bones  as 
for  French  Chops,  remove  the  trim- 
mings to  make  the  meat  on  the  chops 
of   uniform   height,    or   leave   the   trim- 


121.     MUTTON  SHOULDER. 

Family  Style. 

4  or   5    pounds   of  mutton   shoulder. 

2  onions. 

1  dozen    potatoes. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Place  the  shoulder  in  roaster  and 
around  it  the  onions  and  potatoes.  Add 
a  cup  of  water;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  roast  for  1  or  IJ^  hours, 
basting  frequently.  Serve  on  a  hot 
platter  with  potatoes  around  the  meat 
and   gravy   poured   over   it. 


72 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


122.     BLANQUETTE    OF    LAMB. 

Take  of  mutton  shoulder  and  brisket 
about  3  or  4  pounds,  cut  into  IJ^  inch 
cubes.  Place  mutton  in  a  small  stew- 
pot  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Brown 
well,  add  2  cups  stock  or  boiling  water, 
6  carrots  quartered  lengthwise,  12  small 
onions,  cook  slowly  13^  hours,  basting 
frequently.  Serve  the  mutton  with 
vegetables  around  it.  Skim  fat  from 
liquid  and  serve  separately,  as  a  gravy. 

123.     IRISH   STEW. 

About  6  pounds  brisket  of  mutton. 

10  onions. 

6  or  8  sprays  of  parsley. 

1  dozen  potatoes. 

3  even  tablespoons  flour. 

2  cups  of  stock  or  water. 

Cut  the  meat  into  two  inch  cubes. 
Place  in  an  enameled  iron  or  aluminum 
pot;  add  boiling  water  to  cover  well  and 
skim  while  boiling.  Add  the  onions, 
parsley  (tied  in  a  bouquet)  and  cook 
for  one-half  hour.  Add  the  flour  beaten 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  two  cups  of 
stock  or  water,  and  the  potatoes  cut 
in  halves  and  cook  for  another  half 
hour. 

124.     SCOTCH  BROTH. 

(see  no.  30.) 

125.     MUTTON    OR    LAMB    CHOPS. 

Chops  cut  from  the  loin  have  more 
meat  upon  them.  The  rib  chops,  al- 
though largely  bone,  are  exceedingly 
sweet,  especially  when  cut  from  good 
lamb.  Rib  chops  which  have  the  meat 
cut  away  from  the  long  bone,  leaving 
the  round  portion  at  larger  end,  are 
called    French   chops. 

Slices,  called  cutlets,  are  sometimes 
cut  from  a  leg  of  mutton  and  are 
cooked  the  same  as  chops. 

Loin  chops  should  be  neatly  skew- 
ered into  a  round  shape.  Always  trim 
off  the  outer  pink  skin  and  v/ipe  care- 
fully. Brush  over  with  melted  butter 
and  broil  over  hot  coals,  or  grease  a 
frying  pan  with  a  bit  of  fat  and  fry  the 
chops  at  first  slowly,  until  thoroughly 
done,   then    brown    over    quickly. 

Chops  may  be  attractively  arranged 
in  many  ways.  They  may  be  garnished 
with  parsley  and  lemon  slices,  or  spread 
with  maitre  d'hotel  butter;  or,  as  Mrs. 
Hill  suggests,  they  may  be  arranged  in 
circular  form  upon  a  round  chop  plat- 


ter and  the  center  filled  in  with  potato 
balls,  French  fried  potatoes,  potato 
chips,  green  peas,  stringed  beans  or 
blanched  chestnuts;  or  the  chops  may 
be  arranged  around  a  mound  of  chopped 
spinach  or  mashed  potatoes. 

126.     BREADED    MUTTON    CHOPS. 

Dip  mutton  chops  in  melted  butter; 
roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  broil  very 
slowly  over  the  coals.  The  fire  must 
not    be   too    hot. 

127.     LAMB   CROQUETTES. 

1  tablespoon    finely    chopped    onion. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 
J4    cup  flour. 

1  cup   stock. 

1  cup  cold  cooked  lamb  cut  into  Va 
inch  dice. 

Yi  cup  boiled  potato  cubes  (same 
size). 

Salt  and  pepper. 

1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Fry  onion  in  butter  five  minutes; 
then  remove  onion.  To  the  butter  add 
flour  and  stock  and  cook  two  minutes. 
Add  meat,  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper. 
Simmer  until  meat  and  potato  have 
absorbed  this  sauce;  add  parsley  and 
spread  on  a  shallow  dish  to  cool.  Shape, 
dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again; 
fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown  pa- 
per; serve  with  tomato  sauce. —  (Fannie 
M.   Farmer.) 

128.     BREAKFAST    LAMB. 

Mince  roasted  or  boiled  lamb,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt.  Brown  in 
butter,  adding  a  pinch  of  minced  pars- 
ley. Serve  for  breakfast  on  buttered 
toast  with  heated  cream  poured  over  it. 

PORK. 

The  best  of  pork  is  none  too  good. 

129.     ROAST  PORK. 

Pork  is  prepared  for  roasting  in  the 
same  manner  as  beef,  but  should  be 
roasted  slowly  and  very  thoroughly  to 
be  sure  that  all  undesirable  germs  are 
destroyed.  Dredge  both  meat  and  pan 
with  flour. 

When  roasted,  dip  off  all  fat  pos- 
sible, from  pan  drippings,  add  boiling 
water  for  gravy,  rinse  around  the  pan 
well  and,  if  not  thick  enough  from  flour 
in  the  pan,  thicken  a  little  more. 

Serve  tart  apple  sauce  with  pork. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


73 


130.     PORK  TENDERLOIN  AND 
SWEET  POTATOES. 

_  Wipe  pork  tenderloin,  pvit  into  a  drip- 
ping pan  and  brown  quickly  in  a  hot 
oven.  Then  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper 
and  powdered  sage  and  bake  45  min- 
utes, basting  every   15   minutes. 

Pare  six  sweet  potatoes,  parboil  for 
10  minutes,  drain;  put  into  a  pan  with 
the  meat  and  cook  until  soft,  basting 
them  when  basting  the  meat. — (Fannie 
M.    Farmer.) 


131. 


PORK  TENDERLOIN, 
FRENCHED. 


For  five  persons,  purchase  two  good 
sized  pork  tenderloins,  fresh  and  sweet, 
and  have  each  tenderloin  divided  across 
into  fifths  and  each  piece  stood  on  end 
and  spanked  flat  with  the  cleaver.  The 
butcher  will  do  this  properly  when  told 
to  "French"  the  tenderloin. 

Frenched  tenderloin  may  be  fried 
slowly  in  butter  until  well  done  and 
well  browned,  and  served  with  maitre 
d'hotel  butter  spread  upon  the  chops 
and  melted  by  their  own  heat;  garnish 
with   slices  of   lemon. 

Or  pork  tenderloins  may  be  rolled  in 
cracker  crumbs,  egg,  and  cracker 
crumbs,  fried  in  butter  and  served  with 
tomato  sauce. — (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

132.  SPARE   RIBS. 

Wipe  spare  ribs  with  damp  cloth,  rub 
over  with  salt  and  pepper  (plenty  of 
salt),  dredge  with  flour  and  put  into 
uncovered  roaster.  Roast  in  a  pretty 
hot  oven,  turn  when  one  side  is  well 
browned  and  roast  until  a  deep  golden 
brown  and  crisp. 

Dip  off  most  of  the  fat  and  make  a 
white  sauce  by  adding  two  heaping 
tablespoons  of  flour;  cook  on  top  of 
stove  until  flour  and  fat  are  mixed  and 
thickened,  then  add  milk  gradually  (one 
or  two  cups)  until  of  the  consistency 
desired.  Strain  and  serve  in  gravy 
bowl. 

Garnish  spare  ribs  with  lemon  slices 
and  parsley  and  serve  apple  sauce. 

133.  PORK  CHOPS. 

Wipe  chops  carefully,  rub  with  pep- 
per and  salt  and  fry  slowly  in  their 
own  fat  until  thoroughly  cooked,  ten- 
der and  brown. 


Remove  chops  to  a  hot  platter  and 
keep  in  warming  oven  while  frying 
apples  cut  across  into  J^  i^ch  slices 
and  done  in  the  pan  in  which  chops 
were  fried. 

Arrange  apple  slices  around  the  chops. 

134.  FRIED  SALT  PORK. 
New  England  Style. 

Cut  sweet  salt  pork  into  J^  inch 
slices.  Scrape  the  rind  carefully.  Fry 
slowly  until  a  golden  brown.  Pork,  as 
soon  as  taken  from  the  fat,  should  be 
crisp   and   brittle. 

Pour  off  part  of  the  fat,  leaving 
three  tablespoons.  Add  three  table- 
spoons flour  and  stir  until  well  mixed 
with  the  fat.  Add  a  pint  of  milk  grad- 
ually. Season  with  pepper  and  serve 
separately    in    gravy   bowl. 

135.  BACON  AND   EGGS. 

Bacon  should  be  fried  in  the  same 
manner  as  salt  pork. 

Fry  eggs  carefully,  two  at  a  time,  in 
the  bacon  fat,  tossing  the  fat  up  over 
the  tops  of  the  eggs  with  spoon.  When 
a  milky  scum  covers  the  yolk  and  the 
white  is  just  cooked  the  eggs  are  done, 
unless  they  are  liked  turned. 

136.     HAM  AND  EGGS. 

_Ham  should  be  cut  into  ]4  inch 
slices.  Cut  away  rind  and  about  half 
of  the  encircling  fat.  Freshen  in 
tepid  water,  allowing  to  stand  on  back 
of  range  thirty  minutes.  Drain,  dry 
in  a  towel,  cook  rather  quickly,  brown- 
ing on  both  sides,  but  be  sure  it  is 
cooked  through. 

Fry  eggs  in  ham  fat  the  same  as 
with  bacon. 

137.     BOILED  HAM. 

Soak  a  ham  several  hours  or  over 
night  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Wash 
thoroughly,  trim  off  hard  skin  near  end 
of  bone,  put  into  a  kettle,  cover  with 
cold  water,  heat  to  boiling  point  and 
cook  slowly  until  tender,  allowing 
about  one  hour  for  each  three  pounds. 
Remove  kettle  from  range  and  set  aside 
that  ham  may  partially  cool;  then  take 
from  the  water,  remove  outside  skin, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  fine  cracker 
crumbs  and  stick  with  cloves,  14  inch 
apart.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 
Serve  cold,  thinly  sliced. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 


74 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


XIII 


Poultry  and  Game 


Young  birds  are  preferable  for  roasting 
and  broiling.  Older  ones  may  be  used 
for  fricassee,  etc.  The  yellow  chick- 
ens and  fowl  are  usually  thought  to  be 
richer. 

Poultry  should  be  moderately  fat.  A 
young  bird  may  be  known  by  feeling 
the  end  of  the  breast  bone;  if  hard 
and  set,  the  bird  is  a  fowl;  if  flexible, 
it   is   a   chicken. 

If  an  extra  fine  chicken  is  desired 
for  roasting  or  broiling,  ask  for  a 
capon.  These  are  very  fine  in  flavor 
and   quality  and,   of  course,   cost  more. 

Wash  with  greatest  care,  especially 
inside,  removing  the  "lights"  and  all 
adhering  particles  of  fat,  blood,  en- 
trails, etc.  Pick  out  pin  feathers  and 
single  by  holding  the  bird  over  a 
newspaper  crumpled  and  set  on  fire  on 
top  of  the  stove.  Cut  off  legs  at  joint, 
just  below  the  drum  stick.  Rub  inside 
of  bird  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter, 
stuff,  sew  up,  keeping  a  good  shape, 
run  two  skewers  through  the  body,  one 
about  two  inches  from  the  tail  and  an- 
other through  the  web  of  the  wings, 
where  wings  are  held  in  position,  close 
to  the  breast. 

Cut  off  half  of  the  neck,  leaving  an 
inch  of  extra  skin,  and  tie  this  skin 
by  binding  white  twine  several  times 
around  it. 

Tie  the  wings  into  place  by  lacing 
twine  around  ends  of  the  breast  skewer; 
push  the  legs  well  up  and  cross  them 
at  the  ends,  lacing  twine  around  th«m 
and  around  ends  of  the  second  skewer. 

While  tying,  lay  a  thin  slice  of  salt 
pork  under  each  wing  and  each  leg. 
Rub  the  skin  over  well  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper.  Dredge  lightly  with 
flour. 

Support  upon  rack  in  roaster,  breast 
down.  Dissolve  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
in  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  let  this 
stand  on  back  of  stove.  Use  this  for 
basting. 

Begin  roasting  in  a  hot  oven.  When 
the  flour  has  browned,  reduce  the  heat, 
turn  the  bird  breast  up,  and  when 
browned  on  the  top,  baste. 

Chicken  and  young  duck  require  from 
1  to  1^  hours  to  roast,  fowl  from 
1J4    to    2J4    hours;    turkey   and    goose 


from  2  to  3  hours,  according  to  size. 
Baste  every  15  minutes.  When  done, 
remove  all  strings.  Send  to  the  table 
with    garnish    of   parsley. 

138.     GIBLET    SAUCE. 

Save  the  gizzard,  liver,  heart,  tip 
of  wings  and  neck  for  giblet  sauce. 
Cook  all  in  one  cup  salted  water  until 
tender.  Cast  away  neck  and  wing 
tips.  Mince  giblets  in  meat  cutter  and 
return   to   the   liquid. 

When  bird  is  roasted,  remove  from 
the  pan,  dip  out  any  clear  fat  in  the 
pan,  add  a  half  cup  of  boiling  water, 
rinse  pan  well  to  get  all  the  brown 
coloring,  thicken  slightly  with  flour 
(rubbed  to  paste  with  a  little  cold 
water),  cook  two  or  three  minutes, 
season  with  pepper,  strain  into  gravy 
bowl  and  add  giblets  and  their  liquid 
(the  latter  should  have  cooked  down 
to  very  little). 

139.     STUFFING  FOR   POULTRY. 

Make  about  as  much  as  will  be 
needed  to  fill  the  bird  good  and  plump, 
stuffing  at  both  ends.  For  each  cup  of 
cracker  or  stale  bread  crumbs  (use  both, 
mixed)  allow  %  cup  butter,  ^s  cup 
salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  J^  teaspoon 
poultry  dressing  (mixed  sage  and  other 
herbs),  J4  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper, 
Yi  cup  boiling  water.  Add  seasonings 
to  crumbs  and  add  salt  pork,  working 
it  in  with  the  fingers.  Melt  butter  in 
the  boiling  water  and  pour  over,  mixing 
well.  Stuffing  should  be  just  moist 
enough  to  cling  together  well  without 
being  soggy.  If  preferred,  %.  cup  but- 
ter may  be  used  and  the  pork  omitted. 

140.     APPLE  STUFFING. 

Tart  apples  pared,  cored  and  cut 
into  eighths  may  be  used  for  stuffing 
the  center  of  the  bird,  packing  the 
bread  stuffing  around  it.  The  apples 
lend  a  pleasant  flavor  both  to  the  bird 
and  the  dressing  and  are  very  palat- 
able. These  will  be  found  convenient 
if  an  insufficient  quantity  of  the  bread 
and  cracker  stuffing  has  been  prepared. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


75 


141.     BROILED  CHICKEN. 

Select  young  and  tender  chickens 
and  order  them  split  open,  lengthwise, 
on  the  back.  Wash  thoroughly,  dry 
with  a  towel,  rub  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter  and  broil  slowly  until  cooked 
through  and  handsomely  browned,  but 
not  scorched.  Serve  with  maitre  d'hotel 
butter,  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs 
of  parsley.  Broiled  chicken  calls  for 
French    fried  potatoes. 

142.  FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Use  young  chickens  and  cut  into 
about  eight  pieces.  Rub  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  into  milk,  roll  in  flour  and 
fry  in  butter  until  well  browned.  Serve 
on  butter  toast  prints  and  pour  over 
all  the  butter  in  which  chicken  was 
fried.  Garnish  with  lemon  slices  and 
parsley. 

143.  CHICKEN  SAUTE. 

Carefully  clean  and  wash  the  chicken, 
take  off  the  legs  and  cut  them  in  two, 
lengthwise.  Take  off  the  wings  and 
cut  the  body  into  five  pieces  by  cutting 
in  two  endwise  between  back  and  the 
breast;  then  cut  each  half  in  two  cross- 
wise and  split  breast  again  lengthwise. 
In  a  large  frying  pan,  melt  Y^  cup  of 
butter,  add  Yz  an  onion  chopped;  allow 
to  simmer  a  moment  or  two,  then  add 
the  chicken,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  fry  over  a  bright  fire  from  15 
to  20  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  chopped 
parsley   and   garnish    with   lemon   slices. 


144. 


CHICKEN   IN  A   SNOW 
STORM. 


Prepare  and  cut  the  chicken  as  for 
Chicken  Saute.  Soak  the  chicken  in 
cold  water  for  15  minutes.  Place  in  a 
small  stew  pot,  with  one  onion  sliced, 
a  carrot  quartered  lengthwise  and  3  or 
4  sprays  of  parsley  tied  together.  Cover 
with  water  and  allow  to  cook  slowly 
until  tender.  Drain  the  chicken,  saving 
the  liquid,  and  place  the  meat  in  a  fry- 
ing pan  or  large  sauce  pan  in  which 
has  been  melted  a  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter mixed  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour. 
Stir  well,  and  add  through  a  strainef 
the  stock  in  which  chicken  was  boiled. 
Have  ready  three  or  four  cups  of  boiled 
rice,  seasoned  well  with  salt  and  sweet 
butter.     When   ready   to   serve  add   to 


the   chicken    gravy   the   yolk   of   an   egg 
beaten   with   a   tablespoon  of  milk. 

Arrange  the  rice  in  snowy  mounds 
around  the  edge  of  a  large  deep  plat- 
ter. Pour  the  chicken  and  gravy  into 
the  center.  Sprinkle  chicken  lightly 
with  pepper. 

145.     MARYLAND   CHICKEN. 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  up  two  chick- 
ens. Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dip  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs;  place  in 
a  well  greased  dripping  pan  and  bake 
20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  after 
the  first  five  minutes'  cooking  with  Yj, 
cup  of  melted  butter.  Arrange  on  a 
platter  and  pour  over  two  cups  of  thin 
white   sauce. — (Fannie   M.    Farmer.) 


146.     CHICKEN  STEW. 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  up  a  fowl;  put 
into  a  small  stew  pot,  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  add- 
ing Yi.  tablespoon  of  salt  and  Y%  tea- 
spoon of  pepper,  when  fowl  is  about 
half  cooked.  Thicken  stock  with  Yi 
cup  flour,  diluted  with  enough  cold 
water  to  pour  easily.  Serve  with  dump- 
lings. 

If  desired  richer,  butter  may  be 
added. — (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

147.     CHICKEN  PIE. 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  up  two  fowls 
or  chickens.  Put  into  a  stew  pot  with 
Yi,  onion,  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  bit  of 
bay  leaf;  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  slowly  until  tender.  When  chick- 
en is  half  cooked,  add  Yi  tablespoon  of 
salt  and  Y%  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Re- 
move chicken,  drain  stock,  skim  off  fat 
and  then  cook  until  reduced  to  four 
cups.  Thicken  stock  with  Yi  cup  flour 
diluted  with  enough  cold  water  to  pour 
easily.  Place  a  small  cup  in  center  of 
baking  dish,  arrange  around  it  pieces 
of  chicken,  removing  some  of  the  larger 
bones;  pour  over  gravy  and  cool.  Cover 
with  plain  pie  crust  in  which  several 
incisions  have  been  made  to  allow  es- 
cape of  steam.  Wet  edge  of  crust  and 
cut  around  the  rim;  rim  coming  close 
to  the  edge.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  crust  is  well  risen  and  browned. 
Roll  remnants  of  pastry,  cut  into  dia- 
mond shaped  pieces,  bake  and  serve 
with  the  pie  when  reheated. — (Fannie 
M.  Farmer.) 


1(> 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


148.     CHICKEN    CROQUETTES. 

1^   cups  chopped  cold  cooked  fowl. 

Yt.   teaspoon  salt. 

Yx    teaspoon   celery   salt. 

A  dash  of  cayenne  or  paprika. 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Few   drops   onion   juice. 

1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

1  cup   thick   white   sauce. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Shape, 
roll  in  crumbs  and  fry  same  as  other 
croquettes.  White  meat  of  fowl  ab- 
sorbs more  sauce  than  dark  meat.  This 
must  be  remembered  if  dark  meat  alone 
is  used.  Croquette  mixtures  should  al- 
ways be  as  soft  as  can  be  conveniently 
handled,  when  croquettes  will  be  soft 
and  creamy  inside. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 

149.     PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  one  or  two  chickens  in  water  to 
just  barely  cover;  add  salt  when  half 
done,  and  when  thoroughly  tender, 
drain,  saving  the  liquid.  Remove  all 
the  meat  from  the  bones,  cast  away  the 
skin  and  keep  the  light  and  dark  meat 
separate.  Chop  each  and  season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter 
bread  tin;  put  in  a  layer  of  light  meat, 
then  a  layer  of  dark  and  so  on  until 
all  is  used.  Add  the  liquid,  which 
should  be  boiled  down  to  about  one 
cup.  Cover  with  buttered  paper  and 
put  on  a  heavy  weight.     A  clean  board 


cut  to  just  fit  inside  of  the  tin  and  a 
brick  upon  this  answers  nicely.  Tur- 
key may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way, 
slicing  instead  of  chopping,  and  slices 
of  hard  boiled  eggs  may  be  used  with 
either  chicken  or  turkey.  Arrange 
slices  in  the  bottom  and  on  the  sides  of 
the  dish  that  they  may  come  on  the  out- 
side of  the  mould  when  it  is  tipped  out. 

150.  SCALLOPED   CHICKEN. 

Butter  a  baking  dish.  Arrange  alter- 
nate layers  of  cold  cooked  sliced  chick- 
en and  boiled  macaroni  or  rice.  Pour 
over  white,  brown  or  tomato  sauce. 
Cover  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  crumbs 
are  browned. — (Fannie  M.   Farmer.) 

151.  SCALLOPED    TURKEY. 

Make  1  cup  of  sauce,  using  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
Ya  teaspoon  of  salt  and  dash  of  pepper 
and  1  cup  of  stock  obtained  by  cooking 
in  water  the  bones  and  skin  of  a  roast 
turkey.  Cut  remnants  of  cold  roast 
turkey  into  small  pieces.  There  should 
be  IH  cups;  sprinkle  the  bottom  of  but- 
tered baking  dish  with  seasoned  cracker 
crumbs,  add  turkey  meat,  pour  over 
sauce  and  sprinkle  with  buttered  crack- 
er crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
crumbs  are  brown.  Turkey,  chicken  or 
veal  may  be  used  separately  or  in  com- 
bination.— (Fannie  M,  Farmer.) 


XIV 
Garnishes  and  Sauces 

152.    JARDINIERE.  153.     GOLDEN  GARNISH. 


Jardiniere  makes  a  suitable  garnish 
for  tenderloins,  veal,  mutton,  etc.  Take 
two  potatoes,  cut  into  very  small  strips 
and  French  fried;  about  1  cupful,  a 
cup  of  green  peas,  green  beans,  car- 
rots cut  into  dice  or  stripped  small, 
lengthwise,  and  a  cup  of  cauliflower 
cut  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a 
shagbark  nut,  each  of  these  vegetables 
having  been  cooked  separately  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  and  then  fried  in  but- 
ter. When  the  meat  to  be  garnished 
is  placed  upon  a  long  platter,  arrange 
the  fried  potatoes  at  each  end  and  in 
the  middle  of  the  dish;  then  tastefully 
arrange  the  other  vegetables  in  attract- 
ive little  mounds  around  the  meat,  al- 
ternating the  colors. 


Use  Y2  dozen  small  carrots  pared 
and  quartered  ^engthwise.  Place  in  a 
sauce  pan  with  a  cup  of  stock,  and  a 
tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  until  ten- 
der (40  or  50  minutes).  When  ready 
to  serve  add  another  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter; arrange  around  boiled  mutton  or 
other  meats. 

154.      MAITRE   D'HOTEL   BUTTER. 

To  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  fresh 
butter  add  an  even  teaspoon  of  finely 
minced  parsley.  By  working  the  but- 
ter with  a  knife  on  the  inside  of  a  cup, 
the  parsley  may  be  mixed  in  evenly. 
This  is  spread  over  meats  or  fish  when 
served    and    hot,    the   heat   of   the   meat 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


n 


being  sufficient  to  melt  the  butter.  For 
winter  use,  dry  a  liberal  supply  of 
parsley  by  tying  in  bunches  and  hang- 
ing downward  until  thoroughly  crisp. 
Line  a  tin  box  with  paraffine  paper,  lay 
in  the  parsley  lightly  and  cover  tight. 
For  soups,  these  dried  sprays  may  be 
thrown  in  whole,  while  for  maitre 
d'hotel  butter  the  dry  parsley  may  be 
crushed  with  the  hand  and  sifted 
through  a  wire  sieve. — (French  Chef.) 

155.     SAUCE  POLONAISE. 

54   pound  of  butter. 

1    hard   boiled   egg. 

Several  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  egg  and 
parsley,  both  chopped  fine.  Stir  well 
and  serve  separately  in  a  bowl.  Par- 
ticularly nice  with  fish. — (French 
Chef.) 

156.     PEPPER    SAUCE. 

1  onion. 

1  carrot. 

1  tablespoon   flour. 

1  cup  vinegar. 

1  cup  stock. 

A  dash  of  paprika. 

Pepper  and  salt. 

Melt  butter  in  a  sauce  pan;  add  onion 
and  carrot  chopped  fine,  and  cook  5 
minutes.  Sprinkle  over  1  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  stir  well  and  add  1  cup 
vinegar,  1  cup  of  stock,  a  pinch  of 
thyme,  ^  a  bay  leaf  broken  fine,  salt 
and  pepper,  and  cook  slowly  half  an 
hour;  strain,  add  a  dash  of  paprika  and 
serve  separately  or  poured  over  meat. 
This  sauce  needs  to  be  highly  sea- 
soned. It  has  been  recommended  for 
Beef  Tongue  Frangaise. 

157.     HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

J^    cup   butter. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs. 

1    tablespoon   vinegar. 

J4   teaspoon  salt. 

A  dash   of  paprika. 

Yi   cup  boiling  water. 

Put  butter  in  a  bowl,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  wash,  using  a  spoon.  Di- 
vide into  three  pieces;  put  one  piece 
in  a  sauce  pan  with  the  yolks  of  eggs 
and  lemon  juice.  Place  sauce  pan  in  a 
larger  one,  containing  boiling  water  and 
stir  constantly  with  a  wire  whisk  until 
butter    is    melted.      Then     add     second 


piece  of  butter  and  as  it  thickens,  the 
third  piece.  Add  water;  cook  one  min- 
ute; remove  from  the  fire,  then  add 
salt  and  cayenne. — (Fannie  M.  Farm- 
er.) 

158.     MINT  SAUCE. 

Yz  cup   mint   leaves. 

H   cup    vinegar. 

1  tablespoon   of  sugar. 

Chop  the  mint  leaves;  mix  them  in 
a  bowl  with  the  vinegar  and  sugar. 
Serve  with  leg  of  mutton. 

159.     WHITE   SAUCE. 
Mother's  Way. 

Make  a  thin  white  sauce  by  thicken- 
ing two  cups  of  milk  with  two  table- 
spoons of  flour  (previously  rubbed  to 
a  smooth  paste  by  first  mixing  a  pinch 
of  salt  with  the  flour  and  then  adding 
a  few  spoons  of  water). 

This  sauce  may  be  used  as  the  foun- 
dation for  codfish  and  cream,  macaroni 
and  cream,  chipped  beef  and  cream, 
etc.;  Yi,  cup  sweet  cream  or  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  with  seasoning  of  pep- 
per being  added  just  befoi-e  removing 
from  the  fire. 

The  thickness  of  the  gravy  may  be 
varied  by  having  more  or  less  thicken- 
ing and  the  sauce  may  be  further  en- 
riched by  adding  an  egg,  well  beaten, 
with   the   cream   or  butter. 


160.     WHITE  SAUCE. 

Miss  Farmer,  in  The  Cooking  School 
Cook  Book,  prepares  thin  white  sauce 
by  first  melting  the  butter  (2  table- 
spoons) until  it  bubbles.  Add  1J4 
tablespoons  flour,  mixed  with  ^  tea- 
spoon of  salt  (except  for  salt  fish)  and 
a  little  pepper.  Stir  flour  and  butter 
until  thoroughly  blended  and  thick. 
Pour  in  1  cup  milk  gradually,  adding 
about  ^  at  a  time;  stir  until  well 
mixed,  then  beat  until  smooth  and 
glossy.  The  sauce  may  be  made  a 
little  more  quickly  if  milk  is  first 
scalded. 

This  is  a  delicious  sauce  but  requires 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  to  each  cup  of 
milk.  Less  butter  may  be  used,  how- 
ever, but  Mother's  way  permits  varia- 
tions as  convenient,  such  as  adding  but 
a  small  quantity  of  butter  or  just  a  bit 
of  butter  together  v/ith  a  little  sweet 
cream,  if  that  is  more  convenient. 


78 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


161.     THICK  WHITE  SAUCE. 

For    Cutlets,    Croquettes,    Etc. 
2H    tablespoons   butter. 
Yi   cup  flour. 
1   cup  milk. 
54    teaspoon  salt. 
A  dash  of  pepper. 

Make  the  same  as  thin  white  sauce 
— (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

162.     DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Ys   cup  butter. 

3  tablespoons  of  flour. 

IY2   cups  hot  water. 

Y2   teaspoon   salt. 

Y&  teaspoon  pepper. 

Melt  half  the  butter;  add  flour  with 
seasonings  and  pour  on  gradually  hot 
water.  Boil  5  minutes  and  add  re- 
maining butter  in  small  pieces.  To  be 
served  with  boiled  or  baked  fish. 

•  163.     CAPER   SAUCE. 

To  drawn  butter  sauce  add  Y2  cup  of 
capers,  drained  from  their  liquid.  Serve 
■v^ith  boiled  mutton  or  with  fish. 


164.  BROWN  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  of  butter. 

Y  a  slice  of  onion. 

3  tablespoons    of    flour. 
1  cup  of  brown  stock. 

Y  teaspoon  salt. 

Y&  teaspoon    pepper. 

Cook  onion  in  butter  until  slightly 
browned;  remove  onion  and  stir  butter 
constantly  until  well  browned.  Add 
flour,  mix  with  seasonings  and  brown 
the  butter  in  flour.  Then  add  stock 
gradually.  Thin  brown  gravy  will  do, 
but  brown  soup  stock  is  better. — (Fan- 
nie M.   Farmer.) 

165.  TOMATO   SAUCE. 

Y2  can  of  tomatoes. 

Sprig  of  thyme. 

1  stalk   celery. 

1   sliced    onion. 

Bit  of  bay  leaf. 

Y2  teaspoon   salt. 

A   dash   of  paprika. 

Ya  teaspoon    of   soda. 

Cook  tomatoes  20  minutes  with  season- 
ings; rub  through  a  strainer;  add 
soda,  then  the  white  sauce. — (Fannie 
M.  Farmer.) 


XV 


Vegetables 


Always  have  vegetables  as  fresh  as 
possible,  never  wilted.  Any  decayed 
portions  should  be  carefully  excluded. 
Green  vegetables  should  be  crisp  and 
any  holes  or  ragged  edges  which  svig- 
gest  that  a  leaf  has  been  worm  eaten 
should  be  carefully  cut  away.  Some 
insects  leave  a  poison  upon  the  eaten 
edge. 

166.  TO  KEEP  GREEN  VEGE- 
TABLES FRESH. 

Lettuce,  cress  and  similar  salad 
greens  are  best  kept  fresh  by  first  wash- 
ing, as  soon  as  received  from  the  mar- 
ket; then  wrap  carefully  cleansed  leaves 
in  a  fresh  towel  wrung  out  in  cold 
water  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Wilted 
leaves  may  be  revived  by  allowing  them 
to  stand  for  a  few  moments  in  cold 
water,  then  wrapping  as  above,  exclud- 
ing the  air.  Lettuce  can  be  kept  per- 
fectly fresh  several  days  in  this  man- 
ner. 


A  small  stiff  brush  kept  exclusively 
for  the  purpose  is  essential  in  prop- 
erly  cleaning  most  vegetables. 

Cook  vegetables  in  boiling  water, 
slightly  salted.  Salt  helps  to  keep  the 
color   of   peas,   beans,   etc. 

A  small  pinch  of  soda  added  to  the 
water  in  which  cabbage  or  onions  are 
cooked  diminishes  the  odor. 

Vegetables  should  not  be  covered  in 
cooking. 

Do  not  allow  vegetables  to  stand  in 
water  after  they  are  done.  Drain  as 
soon  as  tender.  If  done  before  time 
of  serving,  cover  and  keep  hot  until 
ready  to  season  and  serve. 

167.     ASPARAGUS. 

Wash  asparagus,  cut  off  a  little  of  the 
tough  end  and  scrape  lightly  with  a 
sharp  knife.  Be  careful  not  to  break 
off  the  tips.  Scraping  removes  most  of 
the  tough  fibre  and  greatly  improves 
asparagus. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


79 


In  boiling,  keep  asparagus  lying  the 
same  way  in  the  kettle.  After  cleans- 
ing, the  bunches  may  be  loosely  retied. 
Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender  (15 
or  20  minutes).  Drain,  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  a  bit  more  salt  if 
needed.  A  few  spoons  of  cream  may 
be  poured  over,  if  desired.  Serve  in  a 
hot   dish. 

168.     ASPARAGUS    ON    TOAST. 

The  favorite  way  of  serving  aspara- 
gus is  to  arrange  crisp  buttered  toast 
upon  a  hot  platter,  then  lay  the  aspara- 
gus across  the  slices,  having  first  sea- 
soned it  with  butter  and  cream;  then 
pour  the  cream  over  all.  This  moistens 
the  toast,  a  piece  of  which  should  be 
served  with   each   helping  of  asparagus. 

169.     BEANS. 

For  fine  flavor  and  nutritive  quality, 
nothing  surpasses  a  cranberry  pole  bean, 
which,  when  cooked,  is  a  rich  choco- 
late  brown. 

In  midsummer  these  are  obtainable 
in  the  shell  and  may  be  boiled  until  ten- 
der and  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt;  also  cream,  if  convenient.  A 
cranberry  bean  is  preferable  for  succo- 
tash. This  variety  may  be  dried  and 
kept  all  winter.  When  the  dried  beans 
are  used,  they  should  be  soaked  over 
night;  cook  slowly  until  soft,  allowing 
nearly  all  the  water  to  evaporate.  This 
leaves  the  rich  flavor  in  the  condensed 
liquid. 

Kidney  beans,  so  called  from  their 
elongated  shape,  are  similar  to  the  cran- 
berry bean  in  flavor,  and  may  be  used 
in  the  same  way. 

Lima  beans  are  perhaps  the  most  used 
in  western  markets  and  may  be  had 
all  the  year.  They  are  cooked  and 
served  as  cranberry  beans,  but  are 
greenish  white  and  quite  different  in 
flavor. 

Pea  beans  are  the  small  white  vari- 
ety known  in  every  market  and  most 
used  for  baking. 

String  beans  are  of  two  varieties:  the 
green  (usually  the  cranberry  bean  gath- 
ered while  the  pod  is  tender)  and  the 
yellow   (butter)  beans. 

170.     BOSTON    BAKED    BEANS. 

Pick  over  carefully  one  quart  beans 
and  let  them  soak  over  night;  in  the 
morning  wash  and  drain  in  another 
water,  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  with 


half  a  teaspoon  of  soda;  boil  about  30 
minutes  (when 'done  the  skin  of  a  bean 
will  crack  if  taken  out  and  blown  upon) 
then  drain.  Into  an  earthen  bean  pot, 
first  put  a  fourth  inch  slice  of  pork, 
then  add  the  beans,  filling  pot  about 
seven-eighths  full;  pour  over  two  or 
three  tablespoons  of  molasses.  Into 
the  center  put  one  small  onion  and 
above  this  half  a  pound  of  _  salt  pork, 
well  washed,  having  the  rind  scored 
with  knife  into  slices  or  squares.  Ar- 
range with  the  rind  uppermost,  and 
the  pork  sunk  in  so  the  rind  just  comes 
to  the  top  of  the  beans.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  im- 
proves them;  cover  with  hot  water  and 
bake  six  hours  or  longer  in  a  moderate 
oven,  adding  hot  water  as  needed;  they 
cannot   be   baked   too   long. 

Keep  covered  so  they  will  not  burn 
on  top,  but  remove  the  cover  an  hour 
or  two  before  serving,  to  brown  the 
top  and  crisp  the  pork. 

171.     BEANS  WITH  MUTTON. 

A  leg  or  shoulder  of  mutton  may  be 
garnished  with  beans,  prepared  in  the 
following  manner:  Soak  1  pound  of 
white  kidney  beans  in  cold  water  over 
night.  Drain  and  cook  in  salted  water 
until  tender  (about  3  hours).  When 
ready  to  serve,  chop  one  onion,  brown 
it  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  the 
beans,  drained,  stir  well  and  add  two 
tablespoons  of  butter;  sprinkle  over  a 
tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley  and  serve 
in  a  dish  separate  from  the  mutton. 

172.     LIMA  BEANS. 

If  dry,  they  should  be  soaked  over 
night  in  cold  water.  Cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender  and  season 
with  a  bit  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Cream  or  milk  improves  them. 

173.     SHELL  BEANS. 

Cranberry,  kidney  or  lima  beans, 
freshly  gathered,  are  known  as  "shell 
beans."  Shell  them  and  cook  in  boil- 
ing salted  water.  Always  let  the  water 
cook  down  without  scorching,  leaving 
very  little  liquid.  Season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  add  cream  or 
milk. 

174.     STRING  BEANS. 

Wash  the  beans  and  break  oflf  just  a 
bit  at  each  end,  being  careful  to  take 
the  string  from  one  side  with  each  tip. 
Cut    into    half    inch    lengths    and    cook 


80 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


and  season  as  for  shell  beans.  String 
beans  need  to  be  cooked  two  or  three 
hours.  They  should  be  cooked  slowly 
and  their  water  allowed  to  boil  down 
two  or  three  times.  This  will  make 
them  very  rich  and  sweet. 

BEETS. 

Beets  should  be  carefully  washed,  but 
never  scraped  or  peeled.  Do  not  even 
break  off  any  of  the  little  tap  root,  as 
this  lets  out  the  juice.  Merely  cut  off 
tops  an  inch  above  the  beet.  Cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Beets 
require  from  one  to  four  hours,  ac- 
cording to  size  and  age. 

When  cooked,  drain,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  skin  may  be  easily  slipped 
off. 

175.     BUTTERED  BEETS. 

Beets  boiled  as  above  may  be  sliced, 
slipped  back  into  the  pot  or  sauce  pan 
and  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and 
plenty  of  butter.  Heat  through  thor- 
oughly and  serve. 

176.  PICKLED  BEETS. 

Beets  boiled  as  above  directed  may 
be  sliced  and  covered  with  cold  vinegar 
to  be  served  as  a  pickle. 

177.  CREAMED  BEETS. 

Boiled  beets  may  be  cut  into  slices 
and  served  with  white  sauce. 

178.  BOILED   CABBAGE. 

In  selecting  cabbage,  take  one  which 
is  firm  and  heavy.  Remove  outer  leaves 
until  perfect  and  tender;  remove  the 
tough  stalk,  and  cut  into  halves  or 
fourths;  cover  with  boiling  salted  water, 
add  a  small  pinch  of  soda,  cover  and 
cook  until  tender.  Season  \yith  salt, 
pepper  and  butter  and,  if  desired,  add 
a  little  milk  or  cream. 

179.  TIP  TOP  PUDDING. 

Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  IS  min- 
utes, then  change  the  water  for  more, 
from  the  boiling  tea  kettle;  when  ten- 
der, drain  and  set  aside  until  perfectly 
cold;  chop  fine,  add  tv/o  beaten  eggs,  a 
tablespoon  of  butter,  three  of  rich  milk 
or  cream,  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  all  well 
together  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pud- 
ding dish  until  brown;  serve  hot.  This 
dish  is  digestible  and  palatable,  much 
resembling  cauliflower. 


180.  STUFFED  CABBAGE. 

Cut  out  the  stalk  end  of  a  head  of 
cabbage,  leaving  a  hollow  shell.  Chop 
two  pounds  of  uncooked  beef  with  a 
slice  of  bacon  and  onion.  Add  one  cup 
of  bread  crumbs,  soaked  and  squeezed 
dry,  one  beaten  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  a 
bit  of  mace.  Shape  into  balls,  arrange 
in  the  cabbage,  add  sprigs  of  sweet  pep- 
per and  steam  until  the  cabbage  is  ten- 
der. Serve  with  tomato  sauce.  Cooked 
meat  may  be  used  by  adding  more  eggs 
to  hold  the  meat  together. — (Mrs.  Janet 
McKenzie  Hill.) 

181.     CARROTS. 

Carrots  should  be  thoroughly  washed 
and  lightly  scraped,  but  never  peeled, 
as  the  best  of  the  carrot  is  near  the 
outside.  Carrots  are  chiefly  used  as  a 
garnish.  Cut  into  very  fine  strips  or 
"straws"  and  boiled  until  tender,  they 
make  a  handsome  garnish  for  lamb  and 
other  meats,  or  may  be  served  in  con- 
somme. 

182.     CREAMED  CARROTS. 

Cleanse  carrots,  cut  into  half  inch 
dice,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
tender,  allowing  the  water  to  boil  away. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 
butter;  cover  with  a  thin  white  sauce 
and  serve. 

183.     CARROT   CHARLOTTE. 

Wash  and  scrape  young  carrots  and 
boil  them  three  hours  with  a  slice  of 
onion;  season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt;  mash  very  fine  and  beat;  pile 
lightly  into  an  oval  dish  and  (prefer- 
ably with  pastry  bag)  roll  a  border  of 
whipped  creani  around  the  base. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Always  select  a  cauliflower  that  is 
clear  and  white  without  dark  spots. 
Remove  outer  leaves,  cut  off  the  tough 
stalk  and  soak,  head  down,  in  cold 
salted  water  for  about  20  minutes. 
Should  there  be  any  insect  inside,  it 
will  crawl  to  the  top  and  may  be  re- 
moved. Cook  in  boiling  salted  water, 
head  up,  until  tender. 

184.     BOILED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Cook  as  above.  Separate  the  branches 
lightly  with  a  fork,  season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  butter,  and  if  desired,  cream 
or  milk. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


81 


185.     CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Cook    as    foi-    boiled    cauliflower    and 
serve  with  a  white  sauce. 


186. 


HOLLANDAISE   CAULI- 
FLOWER. 


Cauliflower  is  also  delicious  when 
served  with  a  Hollandaise  sauce.  (See 
Sauces.) 

187.     PICKLED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Boiled  cauliflower  may  be  covered 
with  vinegar,  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
served  as  a  pickle. 

CELERY. 

Celery  to  be  served  as  a  relish  should 
be  white  and  clear.  Separate  the  stalks, 
cutting  off  the  stub,  wash,  scrape  and 
chill  in  very  cold  water.  The  larger 
stalks  should  be  laid  aside  for  cooking 
or  seasoning.  These  outer  stalks,  or 
the  tops,  are  a  favorite  seasoning  for 
soups. 

188.     CREAMED   CELERY. 

Celery  should  be  allowed  to  cook  very 
slowly.  Cut  carefully  washed  and 
sci-aped  stalks  into  one  inch  lengths. 
Cover  with  water  in  a  sauce  pan  and 
allow  to  gently  simmer  for  about  an 
hour,  or  until  perfectly  tender.  Drain, 
season  with  salt,  add  milk  or  cream  and 
thicken  slightly  with  a  smooth  flour 
paste. 

189.     BOILED    CORN. 

Select  tender  corn  having  the  ker- 
nels of  medium  size  and  well  filled  out. 
Remove  husks  and  silk,  break  off  the 
stub  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender  (about  20  minutes).  Drain, 
wrap  in  a  napkin  and  serve  upon  a 
platter. 

190.     SWEET    CORN    IN    CREAM. 

Cut  the  kernels  from  freshly  boiled 
sweet  corn,  scraping  the  ear  well  with 
a  knife  to  remove  the  sweet  particles 
adhering  to  the  cob.  Put  into  a  sauce 
pan,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  but- 
ter and  add  a  little  rich  cream.  When 
heated,  serve. 

191.     SUCCOTASH. 

Cut  freshly  boiled  sweet  corn  from 
the  cob  as  above  described,  being  care- 
ful  to   scrape   the   cob   well.      For   each 


two  cups  of  corn,  add  one  cup  of  cran- 
berry or  kidney  beans,  which  have 
been  previously  cooked  until  dark  and 
tender,  with  a  2  inch  cube  of  salt  pork 
and  water  to  just  cover.  Season  with 
%  teaspoon  pepper,  %  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  butter  and  j4  cup  sweet 
cream. 

This  is  the  ideal  succotash  of  New 
England.  Lima  beans  are  often  used, 
but  are  not  as  rich.  Remember  to  cook 
the  beans  long  and  slowly,  soaking 
them  over  night  if  dry  beans  are  used. 
The  water  should  be  allowed  to  cook 
away  two  or  three  times  until  the  beans 
are  finally  left  with  very  little  liquid. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Hold  cucumber  with  the  stem  end  to- 
ward you.  Cut  a  thick  slice  from  the 
other  end,  then  pare  the  cucumber,  al- 
ways paring  and  slicing  toward  the 
stem  end.  This  is  said  to  prevent  the 
cucumber  from  being  bitter.  Then  cut  a 
thick  slice  from  the  stem  end  and  cut 
the  cucumber  into  very  thin  slices.  Al- 
low to  stand  in  cold  salt  water  at  least 
20  minutes  before  serving.  Have  the 
cucumbers  thoroughly  chilled. 

192.     SLICED    CUCUMBERS. 

Prepare  cucumbers  as  above  and  just 
before  serving  cover  with  vinegar  (half 
water  if  strong),  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  cover  with  crushed  ice. 

193.     EGG   PLANT. 

Pare  an  egg  plant  and  cut  into  very 
bin  slices.  Sprinkle  slices  with  salt 
nd  pile  on  a  plate.  Cover  with  a 
weight  to  squeeze  out  the  juice  and 
allow  to  stand  one  hour.  Dredge  with 
flour  and  fry  slowly  in  butter  until 
crisp   and   brown. 

Or,  egg  plant  may  be  cut  into  J4 
inch  slices  and  soaked  over  night  in 
cold  salted  water.  Drain,  let  stand  in 
cold  water  a  half  hour,  drain  again 
and  dry  between  towels.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  batter  or  in 
flour,  beaten  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry 
in  deep  fat. —  (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 


GREENS. 

Several  varieties  of  fresh  green 
leaves  are  cooked  and  served  as  greens. 
These  make  a  wholesome  appetizing  dish 
in  the  spring  of  the  year.      Small  cow- 


82 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


slip  or  meadow  marigold  leaves,  dan- 
delion, spinach  and  young  beet  tops  are 
best.  Any  one  of  these  may  be  pre- 
pared as  follows: — 

Wash  thoroughly  in  several  waters; 
drain,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  a 
little  salt  or  a  pinch  of  soda,  either  of 
which  will  preserve  the  color.  Cook 
until  perfectly  tender,  allowing  the 
water  to  boil  down  until  very  little  re- 
mains. Drain,  season  with  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Serve  with  vinegar  if 
desired. 

194.     SPINACH  FRANCAISE. 

Clean  and  wash  Y^  peck  of  spinach; 
cook  it  for  10  minutes  in  salted  boiling 
water  to  cover  well.  Drain  and  cool; 
when  thoroughly  cold,  chop  it  quite 
fine.  Ten  minutes  before  serving,  put 
the  chopped  spinach  into  a  sauce  pan 
with  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  table- 
spoon flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  Yt.  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Cook  for  IS  minutes 
and  while  stirring  add  a  cup  of  milk. 
This  is  delicious. 

LETTUCE. 
(See  salads.) 

MACARONI. 
(See   cereals.) 

195.     BOILED  ONIONS. 

Put  onions  into  a  dish  of  cold  water 
and  hold  them  under  the  water  while 
removing  the  skins.  This  prevents  the 
unpleasant  effect  upon  the  eyes.  Soak 
them  an  hour  in  warm  salted  water, 
rendering  the  flavor  much  more  deli- 
cate. Cook  in  boiling  salted  water, 
changing  the  water  when  onions  have 
been  cooked  about  ten  minutes.  Cover 
and  cook  until  tender,  having  added  a 
pinch  of  soda  to  the  water.  Drain, 
season  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter, 
and  add  milk  or  cream  if  desired. 

196.     CREAMED  ONIONS. 

Boil  onions  as  above  and  serve  with 
a  thin  white  sauce. 

197.     PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips  in  the  spring  are  best.  Wasn't 
and  scrape  them  and  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Parsnips  re- 
quire  about   an    hour   to   cook;    cut    in 


halves  lengthwise,  they  require  less 
time.  When  tender,  drain,  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  butter. 

198.     FRIED  PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips  are  nice  boiled,  sliced,  dipped 
in  a  batter  and  fried  brown. 

199.     PEAS. 

Peas  are  among  the  most  desirable 
and  nutritious  of  the  fresh  vegetables. 
Shell,  wash  and  drain  the  peas.  If 
they  come  from  your  own  garden, 
wash  the  pods  and  cook  for  ten  min- 
utes in  boiling  water.  Skim  out  the 
pods,  and  add  the  peas,  which  have  been 
soaked  half  an  hour  in  cold  water. 
Peas  should  be  salted  when  about  half 
done.  Drain,  season  with  pepper,  salt 
and   butter,   and   cream,    if  desired. 

200.     PEAS  AND   NEW  POTATOES. 

Prepare  new  potatoes  as  for  boiling. 
Instead  of  changing  to  a  second  water, 
put  the  potatoes  into  the  kettle  in  which 
peas  are  being  boiled,  add  a  two  inch 
cube  of  salt  pork  and  cook  until  peas 
and  potatoes  are  tender.  Drain,  season 
with  pepper,  salt  and  sweet  cream. 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes  are  usually  cooked  in  boiling 
salted  water.  New  potatoes  are  said  to 
be  better  if  cooked  in  two  waters,  hav- 
ing two  kettles  of  boiling  water  upon 
the  stove.  Cook  in  the  first  kettle  until 
about  half  done,  using  the  frying  bas- 
ket; then  lift  the  basket  from  the  first 
to  the  second  kettle,  making  sure  that 
the  water  boils,  and  cook  until  done. 

Old  potatoes  from  which  the  mois- 
ture has  partly  evaporated,  may  be 
cooked  in  cold  water. 

201.     BOILED  POTATOES. 

Boil  them  with  the  jackets  on. 

Wash  and  thoroughly  scrub  with 
vegetable  brush.  Pick  out  or  cut  off 
bad  spots  and  cook  as  above  directed. 

Try  with  a  steel  fork  and  when  done, 
drain  at  once.  Never  allow  potatoes 
to  stand  in  the  water  after  they  are 
done.  Return  kettle  to  stove  and  dry 
out  all  the  moisture.  Remove  jackets 
and  serve  at  once.  Sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  roll  in  melted  but- 
ter if   desired. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


83 


202.     BAKED  POTATOES. 

Cleanse  as  for  boiling.  Cut  off  a 
thin  slice  from  each  end  and  prick  the 
skin  several  times  with  a  steel  fork. 
Baked  potatoes  should  be  served  as 
soon   as   done. 

203.     SPECIAL  BAKED  POTATOES. 

Cut  a  cross  in  the  flat  side  of  baked 
potatoes,  turn  back  the  corners  and 
carefully  scrape  out  contents.  Set 
shells  into  warming  oven;  mash  the 
potatoes  quickly,  or  put  them  through 
a  ricer,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  but- 
ter and  sweet  cream,  allowing  one 
tablespoon  of  cream  to  each  good  sized 
potato;  refill  the  shells,  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  reheat  in  the  oven.  Serve 
at   once. 

204.      MASHED    POTATOES. 

Mash  boiled  potatoes,  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  butter,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  hot  sweet  cream  for  each 
large  potato;  beat  and  pile  lightly  into 
vegetable  dish.  Dot  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

205.  RICE   POTATOES. 

Pass  boiled  potatoes  through  a  ricer, 
season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  add  hot  cream  as  for  mashed  po- 
tatoes. Pass  again  through  the  ricer 
into  the  vegetable  dish,  or  if  desired, 
around   meat, 

206.  POTATO  CAKES. 

Left  over  mashed  potatoes  may  be 
pressed  into  a  mould  and  sliced;  or 
they  may  be  shaped  into  flat  balls. 
Heat  through,  and  brown  in  butter. 


207. 


MAITRE   D'HOTEL 
POTATOES. 


Boil  one  pint  of  potato  balls  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  about  ten  minutes; 
drain,  and  add  one  cup  of  milk.  Cream 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  the  yolk 
of  one  egg  beaten  well,  add  also  one 
tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  one  table- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley,  Yi.  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  dash  of  paprika.  When 
the  milk  is  partly  absorbed,  stir  into 
the  potatoes  quickly. 

(Potato  balls  are  cut  with  a  French 
vegetable  cutter.  If  this  is  not  avail- 
able, the  potatoes  may  be  cut  into  half 
inch   dice.) 


208.     FRENCH    FRIED    POTATOES. 

Pare  potatoes  and  allow  to  stand  for 
15  minutes  in  cold  salted  water.  Cut 
lengthwise  into  strips  about  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  in  width  and  thickness. 
Return  these  to  the  water  and  as  de- 
sired for  frying,  dry  them  in  a  towel. 
Fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  deep  fat,  us- 
ing frying  basket.  Do  not  have  the 
lard  too  hot.  When  well  browned, 
lift  the  basket,  and  turn  potatoes  upon 
brown  paper  to  drain. 

RICE. 
(See  cereals.) 

209.     SUMMER     SQUASH. 

Wash  a  young,  tender,  thin  skinned 
summer  squash,  cut  into  thick  slices 
and  cook  about  20  minutes  in  boiling 
salted  water.  Drain,  toss  the  squash 
upon  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  and  wring 
it  out.  Mash  the  squash  and  season 
with    pepper,    salt   and   butter. 

210.     WINTER    SQUASH. 

Winter,  or  Hubbard  squash,  has  a 
thick,  hard  shell  in  which  the  squash 
may  be  cooked  and  served. 

211.     STEAMED  SQUASH. 

Take  part  of  a  Hubbard  squash,  cut 
into  inch  strips,  pare,  and  cut  into 
inch  squares.  Steam  over  boiling  water 
until  tender.  Mash,  season  with  pep- 
per,   salt   and   butter. 

212.  BOILED  SQUASH. 

Prepare  as  for  steamed  squash  and 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  ten- 
der. Drain,  then  simmer  until  most 
of  the  remaining  moisture  has  dried 
away.  Mash  and  season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  butter. 

213.  BAKED   SQUASH. 

Cut  a  Hubbard  squash  into  individual 
portions  (about  three  inches  square) ; 
arrange  in  a  dripping  pan,  season  each 
piece  with  half  a  teaspoon  of  West 
India  molasses,  and  half  a  teaspoon  of 
butter.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  bake 
until  soft.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  serve  in  the  shell  upon  side 
plates.       If    preferred,     the    soft    part 


84 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


may  be  scraped  from  the  shells, 
mashed,  seasoned  and  served  in  a  vege- 
table dish. 

214.     SWEET  POTATOES. 

Sweet  potatoes  are  prepared  for  boil- 
ing and  baking  in  a  manner  similar  to 
white    potatoes    (see    potatoes).   . 

215.     FRENCH    FRIED    SWEET   PO- 
TATOES. 

Prepare  as  for  white  potatoes,  and 
proceed  as  described  in  "French  fried 
potatoes." 

216.     FRIED    SWEET   POTATOES. 

Cut  cold,  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into 
y^.  inch  slices.  Fry  in  butter  until 
nicely  browned.  Sprinkle  with  chopped 
parsley  if  desired. 

TOMATOES. 

(See  salads.) 

Select  tomatoes  that  are  firm  and 
just  ripe.  Immerse  in  boiling  water; 
after  a  moment,  the  skins  may  be 
easily  peeled  off.  Chill  the  peeled 
tomatoes  on  ice,  or  in  a  cold  cellar 
before  slicing  them. 

217.  SLICED    TOMATOES. 

Prepare  chilled  tomatoes  as  above. 
Cut  in  %  inch  slices  to  be  served  with 
French  aressing  or  with  a  vinegar 
dressing,  either  by  themselves  or  in 
combination  with  other  salad  ingredi- 
ents. 

218.  STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Skin  tomatoes  as  above;  cut  into 
fourths  or  thick  slices  and  simmer 
gently  in  a  sauce  pan  for  IS  minutes. 
Add  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Also  if  desired,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar. 
Some  also  add  a  bit  of  vinegar. 

219.     SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  with  cracker  crumbs  (buttered 
crumbs  are  best).  Cover  with  sliced 
tomatoes,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt 
and  bits  of  butter.  Then  add  another 
layer  of  crumbs  and  if  these  are  not 
well    buttered,    dot    thickly    with    small 


bits  of  butter;  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  well 
browned. 

220.     BROILED  TOMATOES. 

Peel  and  chill  tomatoes;  cut  into 
halves  or  thirds;  roll  tomato  slices  in 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  butter  five 
minutes.  Carefully  lift  tomato  slices 
and  lay  upon  slices  of  crisp  buttered 
toast,  arranged  on  a  hot  platter.  Set 
into  the  warming  oven.  Add  2  table- 
spoons flour  to  butter  and  juice  in 
frying  pan;  stir  until  browned  and 
thickened;  and  thin  to  the  consistency 
of  thin  white  sauce  with  milk  added 
gradually.  Season  with  pepper  and 
pour  this  sauce  over  the  hot  tomato 
slices  and  toast.  This  is  a  delicious 
breakfast    dish. 

Shredded  wheat  may  be  used  in  place 
of   the   toast. 

221.     BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Wipe  and  remove  a  thin  slice  from 
the  stem  end  of  six  smooth  medium 
sized  tomatoes.  Take  out  seeds  and 
pulp  and  drain  off  most  of  the  liquid. 
Add  an  equal  quantity  of  cracker 
crumbs,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  refill 
tomatoes  with  this  mixture.  Place  in  a 
buttered  pan,  sprinkled  with  buttered 
crumbs;  bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
— (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 


222. 


STUFFED   TOMATOES   A   LA 
CAROLINA. 


^  Select  round  tomatoes  of  uniform 
size.  Remove  a  piece  about  one  inch 
in  diameter  from  the  smooth  end  of 
the  tomato,  and  remove  the  seeds. 
Cook  a  cup  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  well 
seasoned  broth  with  ^  a  green  pepper 
cut  fine.  When  the  rice  is  nearly  ten- 
der, add  Yz  cup  of  butter,  and  mix 
thoroughly,  being  careful  to  _  avoid 
breaking  the  grains  of  rice.  Fill  the 
tomato  shell  with  the  rice;  put  back 
the  covers,  set  in  a  baking  pan,  stem 
end  down,  brush  over  the  outside  with 
olive  oil  or  melted  butter  and  bake  half 
an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Remove 
carefully  to  a  serving  dish  and  pour 
around  the  tomatoes,  a  cup  of  highly 
seasoned  tomato  sauce. — (Mrs.  Janet 
McKenzie  Hill.) 

Rice  which  has  been  previously  boiled 
may  be  used  for  the  above,   by  reheat- 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


85 


ing  it  in  half  the  amount  of  stock. 
When  well  heated,  add  the  butter  and 
proceed  as  above. 

223.     TOMATOES    STUFFED   WITH 
CABBAGE. 

_  Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  smooth 
side  of  smooth,  ripe  tomatoes  of  uni- 
form size  (this  recipe  allows  for  12 
tomatoes).  With  a  teaspoon  remove 
pulp  without  breaking  the  shell.  Take 
a  small  solid  head  of  cabbage  and  one 
onion  chopped  fine;  add  bread  crumbs, 
rubbed  fine,  and  pulp  of  tomatoes; 
season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sugar. 
Add  a  teacup  of  sweet  cream,  mix 
well  and  fill  tomatoes;  replace  the 
slice  and  lay  the  tomatoes,  stem  end 
down,  in  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Brush 
over  with  melted  butter  and  bake  half 
an  hour  or  until  thoroughly  cooked 
through.  Arrange  on  a  hot  platter, 
garnish  with  a  small  sprig  of  parsley 
on  the  top  of  each  tomato,  also  a  lump 
of  butter. 

224.     TOMATO   TOAST. 

Press  a  quart  of  tomatoes  through  a 
colander,    heat    in   a   sauce   pan,    season 


with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  sugar  to 
taste;  cut  slices  of  bread  thin,  brown 
on  botn  sides,  butter  and  lay  on  a  hot 
platter.  When  just  ready  to  serve,  add 
two  cups  of  sweet  cream  to  the  stewed 
tomatoes,  heat  a  moment  and  pour  over 
the  toast.  Delicious  for  Sunday  even- 
ing tea. 

225.     TURNIPS. 

Turnips  _  are  best  in  the  fall  and 
winter.  Either  white  or  yellow  turnips 
are  prepared  as  follows: — 

Wash,  cut  into  half  inch  slices,  pare 
and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
tender. 

Drain,  mash,  and  allow  to  simmef 
until  moisture  is  partly  evaporated. 
Season  with   pepper,    salt  and  butter. 

226.     CREAMED    TURNIPS. 

Wash,  slice  and  part  turnips  and  cut 
into  Yz  inch  cubes.  Cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain,  heat 
a  moment  to  dry  out  part  of  the 
moisture.  Add  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
sweet   cream. 

Or,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  cover 
with  thin  white  sauce. 


XVI 


Salads 


The  salad  is  the  ideal  summer   food. 

Possibilities  for  variety  are  almost 
endless,  and  the  ingenuity  of  the  house- 
wife may  daily  be  used  to  produce  some 
dainty,  nutritious  and  thoroughly  whole- 
some combination  which  will  tempt  the 
appetite    as    nothing    else    can    do. 

Salad  materials  should  always  be 
crisp  and  cool  if  uncooked.  When 
cooked,  they  should  be  firm  to  permit 
cutting  into  desired  shapes  without  a 
mushy  appearance.  Materials  for  un- 
cooked salads,  such  as  tomatoes,  cucum- 
bers, lettuce,  etc.,  should  be  washed  and 
prepared  several  hours  before  needed 
and  put  very  near  the  ice  to  become 
thoroughly  cool.  Cucumbers  should  be 
pared  as  directed  (see  vegetables)  then 
either  sliced  or  cut  into  J4  inch  cubes 
and  allowed  to  stand  at  least  a  half 
hotir   in    salted   ice   water. 

Tomatoes  should  be  skinned  and 
when  to  be  filled  with  other  materials 
should  have  a  part  of  the  pulp  scooped 
out;    then    set    them    near    the    ice    to 


become   thoroughly  cool   and  hardened. 

Lettuce  should  be  washed,  drained, 
and  wrapped  in  a  napkin  wrung  out  in 
cold   water,   then  laid   near   the   ice. 

Celery  may  be  treated  in  this  same 
manner. 

221.      FRENCH   DRESSING. 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil. 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

y^  teaspoon   of  salt. 

Yz  teaspoon  of  black  pepper. 

Paprika. 

Put  salt  and  pepper  into  a  small 
china  bowl;  add  the  oil  and  beat  vig- 
orously _  until  well  mixed.  Add  the 
acid  (either  lemon  juice  or  vinegar) 
very    gradually,    beating    constantly. 

Many  who  do  not  care  for  the  flavor 
of  olive  oil  can  enjoy  French  dressing 
when  more  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  is 
used.  _  This  does  not  make  as  good  an 
emulsion  but  is  very  palatable.     If  pre- 


THE  MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


ferred  in  this  way,  use  from  four  to 
six  tablespoons  of  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice  to  three  of  the  oil. 

The  above  amounts  are  given  for 
proportions  only;  as  much  as  desired 
may  be  mixed,  keeping  the  quantities 
relatively  as  above. 

228.  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

2  yolks   of  egg. 

1  cup    olive    oil. 

1  tablespoon  vinegar. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Have  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly 
chilled.  Place  the  two  yolks  in  an  ice 
cold  bowl,  beat  well,  add  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  then  drop  by  drop  and 
still  stirring,  add  Ya  cup  of  the  oil. 
This  must  be  added  drop  by  drop 
with  constant  stirring.  When  quite 
thick,  add  little  by  little  and  still 
stirring,  the  vinegar  which  should  be 
of  best  quality.  Continuing  to  stir, 
add  drop  by  drop  the  remaining  ^ 
cup  of  oil.  The  mixing  should  be 
done  in  a  cold  place.  This  will  re- 
quire some  practice  but  is  the  ideal 
Mayonnaise.  Salad  dressing  should  be 
mixed  with  a  bone,  wood  or  silver 
fork — never    steel. — (French    Chef.) 

229.  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Add  to  two  well  beaten  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  of  celery  salt,  14  teaspoon 
common  salt,  and  ^  cup  of  lemon 
juice.  Beat  well  together  and  cook  in 
a  double  boiler  over  the  fire,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  thickens,  then  re- 
move from  the  fire  and  beat  until 
cold. — (Mrs.    E.    E.    Kellogg,    A.    M.) 

230.  BOILED  DRESSING. 

^2    tablespoon    salt. 

1  teaspoon  mustard. 

IJ^   tablespoons  sugar. 

Few   grains  cayenne. 

j4   tablespoon  flour. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs. 

Ij^   tablespoons  melted  butter. 

^  of  a  cup  of  milk. 

%  cup  of  vinegar. 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  yolks  of 
eggs  slightly  beaten,  butter,  milk  and 
vinegar,  very  slowly.  Cook  over  boil- 
ing water  until  mixture  thickens;  strain 
and    cool. — (Fannie    M.    Farmer.) 

231.  CREAM   DRESSING. 

Cook  in  the  inner  cup  of  double 
boiler    yi    cup   of   cream,    2   tablespoons 


sugar  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs;  when 
thickened  like  a  custard,  add  2  table- 
spoons lemon  juice  after  it  is  re- 
moved from  the  fire,  together  with  a 
pinch  of  salt. — (Mrs.  E.  E.  Kellogg.) 
Vinegar  may  be  used  instead  of 
lemon  juice   if   desired. 

232.  CREAM    DRESSING. 

54  tablespoon  salt. 

J4  tablespoon  mustard. 

54   tablespoon  sugar. 

1  egg,  slightly  beaten. 

2y2   tablespoons  melted  butter. 

^   cup  cream. 

J4  cup  vinegar. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  add- 
ing vinegar  very  slowly.  Cook  over 
boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until 
mixture  thickens;  strain  and  cool. — 
(Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

233.  CREAM   DRESSING. 

1  teaspoon  mustard. 
1  small   spoon  sugar. 

1  salt  spoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons    butter. 

6  tablespoons  good  vinegar. 

Yolk  of  1  egg. 

%   cup  cream. 

White  of   1   egg. 

Cook  first  six  ingredients  in  a  bowl 
set  into  top  of  tea  kettle,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  well  heated  through.  Just 
before  using,  thin  with  %  cup  cream 
and  stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of 
the  egg. 

234.  CREAM   DRESSING. 

3  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice. 
J4   cup  of  whipped  cream. 
Dash  of  salt. 

Pour  lemon  juice  slowly  upon  the 
cream,  beating  constantly.  Salt  as 
desired. 

235.  CREAM   DRESSING. 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  or  vine- 
gar. 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 

^2   a  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Add  sugar  to  lemon  juice  then  beat- 
ing constantly,  add  slowly  the  whipped 
cream.     Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed. 

236.     ASPARAGUS   SALAD. 

Asparagus,  cooked  until  just  ten- 
der, drained  and  cooled,  may  be  served 
with    Mayonnaise    or    French    dressing 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


87 


as  a  salad.  Or,  it  may  be  combined 
with  numerous  vegetables  and  served 
with  or  without  lettuce  leaves,  the 
dressing  to  be  French  or  Mayonnaise 
as   desired. 

237.     ASPARAGUS  AND   PEA 
SALAD. 

Asparagus  is  particularly  nice  com- 
bined with  peas.  Marinate  cold, 
cooked  asparagus  and  peas  by  pouring 
French  dressing  over  them  (separate- 
ly). Drain,  arrange  asparagus  upon 
lettuce  leaves,  and  pile  peas  lightly  in 
the  center.  Pour  Mayonnaise  around 
the  peas  and  over  the  asparagus. 

238.     BEET  SALAD. 

Cut  cold  boiled  beets  into  %  inch 
cubes  and  serve  cream  dressing  234. 

239.  BEET  AND  POTATO  SALAD. 

4  cups  potato  dice. 

H  a  cup  finely  chopped  beet. 

J4   a  cup  minced  egg  yolks. 

Finely  chopped  whites  of  eggs. 

Minced  parsley. 

Cut  cold,  boiled  potatoes  into  54  inch 
dice,  sufficient  to  make  4  cups  or  a 
little  more.  Marinate  potato  dice  by 
tossing  lightly  in  French  dressing. 
Drain  and  arrange  in  a  mound  in 
center  of  rosette  of  lettuce  leaves. 
With  a  knife  mark  into  fourths  and 
press  the  divisions  apart  into  wedge 
shape.  Fill  two  opposite  wedges  with 
finely  chopped  beet,  which  has  been 
marinated  in  the  French  dressing. 
Fill  the  other  two  opposite  wedges  with 
yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  which  have 
been  rubbed  through  a  wire  strainer. 
Mark  divisions  of  the  wedges  with  a 
fine  line  of  minced  parsley.  Cut  the 
whites  of  the  hard  boiled  eggs  into 
narrow  strips,  lengthwise,  and  pile 
lightly  around  the  base  of  the  mound 
upon  the  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  Mayon- 
naise  separately. — (M.    S.    S.) 

240.   CELERY  SALAD. 

The  larger  stalks  of  celery  may  be 
scraped,  chilled,  and  served  with  cream 
sauce  231. 

24L     CABBAGE  SALAD. 

Pile  two  cups  of  finely  chopped 
cabbage  lightly  in  a  vegetable  dish  or 
salad  bowl  and  pour  around  it,  cream 
sauce  235.     Toss  together  when  served. 


242.     CAULIFLOWER  AND   BEET 
SALAD. 

Dress  cooked  cauliflower,  which  has 
been  divided  into  flowerets,  with  oil, 
salt,  pepper  and  vinegar,  or  lemon 
juice. 

Dress  the  shredded  outside  leaves  of 
a  head  af  lettuce  and  a  beet  cut  in 
figures  and  the  chopped  trimmings, 
each  separately  with  the  same  ingredi- 
ents. Dispose  the  lettuce  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  serving  dish  and  the  care- 
fully drained  cauliflower  above.  Sprinkle 
with  the  figures  cut  from  the  beet  and 
dispose  the  chopped  beet  in  points 
around  the  central  mass.  Serve  May- 
onnaise in  a  dish  apart. — (Mrs.  Janet 
McKenzie  Hill.) 

243.     CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Cut  cold  boiled  fowl  or  remnants  of 
cold  chicken  in  I/2  inch  cubes  and 
marinate  with  French  dressing.  Add 
an  equal  quantity  of  celery,  washed, 
scraped  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  chilled 
in  cold  or  ice  water,  drained  and  dried 
in  a  towel.  Just  before  serving,  mois- 
ten with  cream,  oil  or  Mayonnaise 
dressing.  Arrange  in  a  mould  in  the 
salad  dish  and  garnish  with  yolks  of 
hard  boiled  eggs,  forced  through  a  po- 
tato ricer  (or  a  wire  sieve  will  do), 
capers,   and  celery  tips. 

244.  CRESS  SALAD. 

Wash  and  pick  over  fresh  water 
cress;  drain,  wrap  in  a  wet  napkin, 
and  place  near  the  ice  until  ready  to 
serve.  Then  marinate  with  French 
dressing. 

245.  CRESS  SALAD. 

Use  crisp  water  cress  as  the  foun- 
dation, arranging  a  mound  in  salad 
bowl.  Arrange  a  rosette  of  chilled  to- 
mato slices,  then  a  rosette  of  crisp 
cucumber  slices,  add  a  tuft  of  the 
cress  at  the  top  and  sprinkle  a  few 
very  thin  radish  slices  over  all.  Serve 
with  French  dressing  and  toss  together 
at  the  table. 

246.     CRESS  AND  EGG  SALAD. 

Dress  a  bunch  of  cress  with  oil, 
vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the 
whites  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  into 
eighths,  lengthwise  and  arrange  them 
on  the  cress  to  assimilate  the  petals  of 
a  flower.  Press  a  star  of  Mayonnaise 
dressing    in    the    center    of    the    petals, 


88 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


pass  an  egg  yolk  through  a  sieve  and 
arrange  around  the  Mayonnaise.  Send 
to  the  table  in  this  form;  toss  to- 
gether, when  serving. —  (Mrs.  Janet 
McKenzie   Hill.) 


1  cup  English  walnut  meats  broken 
small. 

Mix  and  marinate  thoroughly  with 
Mayonnaise     dressing.  Serve     on     a 

rosette    of    lettuce    leaves. — (M.    S.    S.) 


247.     CUCUMBER   SALAD. 

Pare  cucumbers,  cut  into  %■  inch 
dice,  and  allow  to  stand  30  minutes  in 
salted  ice  water.  Marinate  crisp  let- 
tuce leaves  in  French  dressing,  ar- 
range them  in  a  rosette;  drain  the  cu- 
cumber dice  and  marinate  in  French 
dressing.  Arrange  them  in  a  mound 
in  center  of  lettuce  rosette;  garnish 
with  radishes  sliced  very  thin. 


248.  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Peel  and  slice  four  bananas;  peel 
four  oranges,  divide  into  sections  and 
remove  seeds;  arrange  upon  lettuce 
leaves,  alternating  layers  of  orange 
and  banana.  Pour  over  this  a  dressing 
of  Mayonnaise,  or  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and   lemon   juice. 

249.  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Peel  oranges,  divide  into  sections, 
cut  in  halves  and  remove  seeds.  Ar- 
range upon  lettuce  leaves  and  pile 
broken  English  walnut  meats  upon  the 
orange.  Pour  Mayonnaise  dressing 
over  the  orange  and  toss  together  when 
serving. 

250.     NUT  AND  CELERY   SALAD. 

1  cup  celery. 

1  cup  nut  meats. 

1  cup  shredded  lettuce. 

Lettuce   leaves. 

Mayonnaise. 

Cut  crisp  celery  into  Yz  inch  pieces; 
shred  lettuce  leaves  by  putting  several 
together,  folding  and  cutting  through 
quickly  with  a  silver  knife;  break 
pecan  nut  meats  (or  English  walnuts) 
into  eighths.  Marinate  celery,  shredded 
lettuce  and  nut  meats  by  tossing  to- 
gether with  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Ar- 
range a  rosette  of  lettuce  leaves  and 
make  an  attractive  mound  of  the  nut 
mixture. 

251.     PEA    SALAD. 
1  cup  cold  cooked  peas   (canned  peas 


will  do). 

1  cup  celery  cut  fine 


252.     POTATO   SALAD. 

4  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into 
J^    inch    dice. 

5^2   a  small  onion  grated. 

1    tablespoon    finely    chopped    parsley. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Paprika. 

6  tablespoons  salad    oil. 

3  tablespoons  vinegar. 

Mix  potato  dice,  grated  onion  and 
chopped  parsley;  add  ^  teaspoon  salt, 
y&  teaspoon  black  pepper  and  a  dash 
of  paprika.  Toss  carefully,  adding  6 
tablespoons  of  oil;  when  well  mixed, 
add  the  vinegar,  still  tossing  lightly 
until  evenly  distributed.  Chill  thor- 
oughly before  serving. 


253.     SALMON     SALAD. 

Pick  cold  boiled  salmon  into  bits 
having  these  as  shapely  as  possible; 
small  dice  are  best.  Marinate  thor- 
oughly in  Mayonnaise  dressing  and 
shape  into  a  mound  upon  lettuce  leaves. 
Garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  and 
capers. 


254.     STRING  BEAN   SALAD. 

Use  cold  string  beans,  cooked  as  di- 
rected (see  vegetables)  without  season- 
ings. Beans  should  be  cut  into  1  inch 
lengths.  Marinate  thoroughly  with 
French  dressing.  Also  have  ready, 
chilled  cucumbers,  cut  into  dice,  allow- 
ing a  cup  or  less  of  cucumber,  to  3 
cups  of  beans.  Marinate  cucumbers 
in  the  French  dressing.  Arrange  with 
beans  in  a  mound  upon  lettuce  leaves 
and  cucumbers  forming  the  border  at 
the  base  with  a  few  cucumber  cubes 
on   top. 


255.     TOMATO   SALAD. 

Skin  tomatoes  just  ripe,  but  not  soft; 
chill  thoroughly  and  serve  as  individ- 
ual salads,  each  upon  a  nest  of  heart 
lettuce  leaves,  with  a  tablespoon  of 
Mayonnaise  or  boiled  dressing  dropped 
upon  the  top  and  over  one  side  of 
each  tomato. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


89 


256.  TOMATO  AND  CAULIFLOWER 
SALAD. 

Skin  medium  sized  tomatoes,  scoop 
out  part  of  the  pulp  at  stem  end  and 
thoroughly  chill;  when  ready  to  serve, 
marinate  small  cubes  of  cold  cauliflower 
in  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Pile  lightly 
into  the  center  of  tomatoes,  serve  as 
individual  salads,  each  upon  a  lettuce 
leaf,  and  having  a  tablespoon  of  May- 
onnaise upon  the  top  of  each. 


257.     TOMATO    AND    CUCUMBER 
SALAD. 

Proceed  as  for  Tomato  and  Cauli- 
flower salad,  substituting  ^  inch  cubes 
of  cucumber  which  has  been  chilled  in 
salted  ice  water  for  30  minutes. 

258.     STUFFED    TOMATO     SALAD. 

Proceed  as  for  Tomato  and  Cauli- 
flower salad,  substituting  equal  parts  of 
pecan  nuts  broken  into  eighths  and 
crisp  celery  cut  into  thin  slices. 


xvn 
Nuts 


Nuts  have  grown  in  popularity  as 
their  food  value  has  become  better 
understood.  They  are  nutritious  and 
wholesome  and  should  be  frequently 
used  upon  the   home  table. 

Almonds,  chestnuts,  pecans,  hickory 
nuts,  and  walnuts  are  all  desirable,  but 
none  is  better  for  actual  nourishment 
than  the  every  day  peanut,  which  most 
people  like.  Peanuts  may  be  used  in 
omelet,  salads,  gelatines,  and  peanut 
butter,  is  particularly  good  as  a  sea- 
soning for  numerous  vegetables  such  as 
peas,  string  beans,  stewed  tomatoes, 
etc.  Pecans  and  walnuts  are  especially 
good  broken  or  coarsely  ground  and 
used   in  puddings,    gelatines  and   salads. 

259.     TO    BLANCH   ALMONDS. 

Remove  the  shells  and  pour  boiling 
water  upon  them.  Allow  to  stand  two 
or  three  minutes;  pour  off  hot  water, 
replace  with  cold,  when  the  skin  should 
be  loose  enough  to  slip  off  easily. 

260.     ROASTED  ALMONDS. 

Spread  blanched  almonds  on  a  tin 
and  place  in  the  oven  until  a  light, 
golden    brown. 

261.     SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Blanch  "%,  a  cup  of  almonds  and  dry 
in  a  napkin;  fry  a  few  at  a  time  in 
frying  pan,  containing  cocoanut  oil  or 
half  butter  and  half  clear  beef  drip- 
pings. When  lightly  browned,  remove 
almonds,  using  a  skimmer  taking  as 
little  fat  as  possible;  drain  upon  brown 
paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt;  proceed 
in    this    manner    until    all    are    fried. 


CHESTNUTS. 
.      2(i2.     TO    SHELL. 

Chestnuts  may  be  shelled  and 
blanched  by  putting  a  teaspoon  of  but- 
ter into  the  frying  pan  and  when 
melted,  pour  in  a  cup  or  two  of  chest- 
nuts, which  have  had  a  cross  cut  in 
the  flat  side  of  each.  Shake  the  pan 
to  Butter  the  chestnuts  and  set  into 
the  oven  for  five  minutes.  When 
taken  out  the  shells  and  thin  brown 
skin  should  peel  off  easily.  Use  a 
small   vegetable  knife. 

263.     BOILED    CHESTNUTS. 

When  chestnuts  are  to  be  boiled,  re- 
move the  shells  and  cook  in  boiling 
water  for  ten  minutes;  then  skim 
them  out  and  cover  with  cold  water, 
when  the  thin  skin  should  easily  rub 
off.  They  may  then  be  returned  to  the 
boiling  water  to  be  cooked  until  ten- 
der when  pierced  with  a   fork. 

Boiled  chestnuts  may  be  served 
either  whole  or  mashed,  as  a  vege- 
table. They  may  be  seasoned  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt,  also  with  cream 
if   desired. 

264.      CHESTNUT   PUREE. 

Remove  shells  from  chestnuts;  cook 
in  salted  water  as  directed  for  boiling; 
when  done,  drain,  mash  and  moisten 
with  scalded  milk.  Season  with  salt 
and    pepper    and    beat    until    light. 

This  puree  is  used  as  a  foundation 
for  Chestnut  Souffle  (see  puddings) 
or  it  may  be  served  as  a  vegetable. — 
(Fannie  M.   Farmer.) 


90 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


265.     RAREBIT    OF    CHESTNUT. 

A  royal  dish  for  crisp  October  days. 

If  you  live  within  reach  of  the 
popping  chestnut  burr,  invite  a 
"goodlie  companie"  to  help  gather, 
then  prepare  this  fitting  reward, 
served  from  the  jolly  chafing  dish. 

Shell  and  blanch  chestnuts  to  make 
three  cups  when  shelled,  as  follows;  cut 
a  half  inch  cross  on  the  flat  side  of 
each,  put  chestnuts  into  frying  pan  and 
for  each  cup  add  a  level  teaspoon  of 
butter.  Shake  well  on  top  of  stove  and 
set  into  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Re- 
move from  oven,  take  off  shells  with 
small  knife,  starting  the  inner  skin, 
which  will  now  peel  off  readily. 

Cook  chestnuts  till  soft  in  boiling 
salted  water.  Drain,  measure  out  a 
heaping  cupful  for  garnishing  and  mash 
the  rest  (2  cups).  Season  mashed 
chestnut  with  salt  and  pepper  and  beat 
up  light  with  a  steel  fork. 

The  cup  of  whole  chestnuts  should 
be   "deviled"  as   follows: 

Slip  them  into  a  frying  pan  with  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  half  tea- 
spoon of  beef  extract;  shake  until  well 
covered  with  the  bubbling,  browning 
butter   and   extract. 

Sprinkle  with  a  dash  of  paprika  and 
keep  in  a  warm  place  until  ready  to 
use  them.  -  The  rarebit  may  now  be 
prepared  in  chafing  dish. 

For  each  cup  of  mashed  chestnuts 
have  ready  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  ta- 
blespoons sugar,  1  cup  thin  cream,  1 
even  spoon  beef  extract  and  paprika. 

Turn  mashed  chestnut  into  chafing 
dish,  add  the  butter  and  beef  extract 
and  stir;  add  the  cream  and  when 
just  bubbling,   a  good   dash   of  paprika. 

Pour  at  once  over  toasted  crackers 
and  garnish  each  serving  with  the 
whole  deviled  chestnuts  (which  have 
been  kept  warm  in  a  little  heated  cov- 
ered dish). 


266.     SALTED     PEANUTS. 

Remove  shells  from  unroasted  pea- 
nuts; slip  off  inner  skins  or  blanch 
peanuts  as  directed  for  almonds;  then 
proceed  as  for  salted  almonds. 

267.     PEANUT  BUTTER. 

Shell  and  remove  inner  skins  from 
roasted  peanuts;  grind  in  the  meat 
chopper  and  rub  to  a  paste  with  wood- 
en pestle  in  a  bowl.  Add  a  little  but- 
ter gradually,  enough  to  make  peanut 
meal  cling  together.  Season  with  salt, 
add  a  bit  of  paprika  and  put  into  jelly 
jar  for  use  as  desired.  This  may  be 
used  for  sandwiches,  omelets;  as  a  sea- 
soning for  vegetables  and  in  a  score 
of  ways  which  the  ingenuity  of  the 
housewife  will  invent.  Peanuts  give 
a  fine  flavor  wherever  used. 

268.     NUT    AND    TOMATO    SALAD. 

Skin  and  chill  tomatoes  from  which 
part  of  the  puln  has  been  scooped;  fill 
with  peanut  butter  and  serve  upon  let- 
tuce leaves  with  Mayonnaise. 

269.     APPLE   AND    NUT   SALAD. 

Break  pecan  meats  into  eighths;  pare 
tart  apples  and  cut  into  ]4  inch  dice, 
allowing  a  good  tablespoon  of  nuts  to 
each  apple.  Mix  nuts  and  apples  well 
with  Mayonnaise  dressing;  pile  upon 
heart   lettuce    leaves   and    serve. 

270.  PECAN  BUTTER. 

Grind  pecan  meats  through  fine  meat 
cutter;  rub  to  a  paste  with  back  of 
spoon,  moistening  with  cream;  season 
slightly  with  salt  and  add  a  tablespoon 
of  maple  syrup  or  maple  sugar  finely 
scraped,  to  a  cup  of  nut  meats. 

This  is  delicious  spread  upon  thin 
slices  of  bread  and  made  into  sand- 
wiches. A  lettuce  leaf  may  also  be 
laid  in  each  sandwich. 


xvra 

Pastry 


Materials  for  pastry  should  be  fresh 
and  sweet,  and  preferably  very  cold. 
Butter,  lard,  milk,  water,  or  cream,  and 
even  the  flour,  should  have  been  in  the 
ice  chest  or  in  a  cool  place  until  well 
chilled.  To  prevent  the  juice  of  pies 
from  soaking  into  the  under  crust,  beat 


an  egg  well  and  with  a  bit  of  cloth 
dipped  into  the  egg,  brush  over  the 
under  crust  before  putting  in  the  fill- 
ing. This  is  especially  important  for 
fruit  pies.  Pies  should  have  at  first 
a  moderate  oven,  particularly  those 
filled      with      uncooked      fruits,      with 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


91 


quicker    heat    to    complete    baking    and 
browning. 

Pie  plates  need  not  be  greased;  good 
shortening  serves  the  purpose.  Always 
have  filling  ready  before  beginning 
crust,  that  the  latter  may  be  filled  and 
baked  as  quickly  as  possible. 

271.     PIE  CRUST  WITH  LARD. 

1  cup    sifted   flour. 
54  cup  lard. 

J4  cup  butter. 

Yz  teaspoon  salt. 

Yi  teaspoon  baking   powder. 

2  tablespoons  milk. 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  pow- 
der together;  rub  the  lard  and  butter 
into  the  flour,  until  dry  and  crumbly. 
This  should  be  evenly  and  carefully 
done,  using  the  finger  tips.  Moisten 
with  2  tablespoons  of  milk  or  just 
barely  enough  to  make  the  ingredients 
cling  together  enough  to  roll.  The  se- 
cret of  getting  fluffy  pie  crust  is  to 
use  little  moistening.  It  may  seem  to 
be  hardly  moist  enough  to  cling;  but 
press  it  well  together  (never  knead), 
divide  the  dough,  taking  only  enough 
for  under  crust,  flour  the  rolling  pin 
slightly  and  roll  into  a  round  shape  as 
thin  as  possible.  Fit  the  crust  upon 
the  plate,  lifting  it  carefully  and  pat- 
ting with  the  other  hand  to  see  that 
no  air  bubbles  are  left  under  it.  Hold 
the  plate  upon  the  left  hand,  and  with 
a  knife,  cut  the  crust  off  with  the 
plate  edge  as  a  guide.  This  quantity 
makes  a  two-crust  pie. 

For  a  one-crust  pie,  only  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of 
lard  should  be  enough.  Pinch  up  the 
crust  and  crimp  the  edge  to  prevent 
filling  from  running  over.  In  filling 
a  one-crust  pie,  do  not  allow  the  liquid 
to  come   quite  to  the  top  of  the  plate. 

For  a  two-crust  pie,  roll  remaining 
dough  to  54  inch  thickness,  spread 
thinly  with  butter  which  has  been 
washed  in  very  cold  water  and  the 
water  carefully  squeezed  out.  Fold  the 
crust  twice,  then  twice  the  other  way, 
into  a  small  square  pat;  roll  again  and 
spread  with  butter  and  fold  as  before; 
repeat  this  several  times  for  a  nice  puff 
paste. 

Then  quickly  fill  the  pie,  fold  up- 
per crust  through  the  center  and  cut 
three  small  diagonal  slits  on  the  edge 
of  the  fold  for  escaping  steam;  moisten 
edge  of  lower  crust  with  water;  lay 
crust  across  half  of  the  pie,   open   out 


the  crust  over  other  half  and  trim  off, 
not  too  close;  turn  edge  of  upper 
crust  under  edge  of  lower  crust,  press 
down  evenly  with  the  thumb,  then 
using  a  four-tined  fork  and  allowing 
fork  to  rest  on  edge  of  crust  about 
half  an  inch  (tines  pointing  toward 
the  center)  press  down,  quickly  and 
firmly.  Repeat  all  around  the  pie.  This 
pinches  crusts  together  and  ornaments 
the  pie.  Dot  top  of  crust  with  bits 
of  butter,  dredge  lightly  with  flour, 
pour  cold  water  quickly  on  and  off, 
and  bake  immediately. 

212.     LARD   PIE   CRUST   WITH 
WATER. 

1  cup  flour. 
54   cup  butter. 
54   cup  lard. 

54   teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  water. 

Proceed  as  for  pie  crust  No.   271. 

273.    PIE  CRUST  WITHOUT  LARD. 

1 54    cups  flour. 

54   cup    butter. 

54   teaspoon  salt. 

J4  teaspoon  baking   powder. 

4  tablespoons  of  rich  cream  (a  trifle 
more   if  needed). 

Proceed  as  for  pie  crust  No.  271, 
using  the  cream  for  moistening.  If 
dough  will  not  cling  together  with  4 
tablespoons  of  cream,  add  a  trifle  more. 
This  is  wholesome  and  very  nice. 

274.     PUFF  PASTE. 

The  directions  for  upper  crust  (see 
No.  271)  embody  the  principles  of  puff 
paste.  For  a  very  light  puff  paste,  the 
butter  should  be  washed  in  a  bowl 
which  has  been  first  rinsed  in  hot 
water,  then  chilled  in  cold.  Treat  the 
hands  in  the  same  manner  and  but- 
ter will  not  adhere.  Wash  the  butter 
by  letting  cold  water  run  over  it; 
squeeze  out  the  water  with  the  hands 
and  work  butter  until  soft,  still  al- 
lowing the  cold  water  to  run  over  it. 

Miss  Farmer's  directions  for  very 
light  paste,  suitable  for  patties,  etc., 
continue  as  follows: 

1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  pastry   flour. 

Cold   water. 

Wash  the  butter,  pat  and  fold  until 
no  water  flies.  Reserve  2  tablespoons 
of   butter;    shape   remainder   into   a   cir- 


92 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


cular  piece  one-half  inch  thick  and  put 
on  floured  board.  Work  2  tablespoons 
of  butter  into  flour  with  finger  tips 
of  right  hand.  Moisten  to  a  dough 
with  cold  water;  turn  on  slightly 
floured  board  and  knead  one  minute. 
Cover  with  towel  and  let  stand  five 
minutes. 

Pat  and  roll  ^  inch  thick,  keeping 
paste  a  little  wider  than  long  and 
corners  square.  Draw  into  shape  with 
fingers.  Place  butter  on  center  of 
lower  half  of  paste;  cover  butter  by 
folding  further  half  of  paste  over  it; 
press  edges  firmly  together  to  enclose 
as    much    air    as    possible. 

Fold  right  side  of  paste  over  en- 
closed butter,  the  left  side  under  it^ 
Turn  paste  half  way  round,  cover  and 
let  stand  5  minutes;  pat  and  roll  % 
inch  thick,  having  paste  longer  than 
wide,  lifting  often  to  prevent  paste 
from  sticking  and  dredging  board 
slightly  with  flour  when  necessary. 
Fold  from  ends  toward  center,  making 
three  layers.  Cover  and  let  stand  5 
minutes.  Repeat  twice,^  turning  paste 
half  way  round  each  time  before  roll- 
ing. After  fourth  rolling,  fold  from 
ends  to  center  and  double,  making 
four  layers.  Put  in  cold  place  to 
chill. 

Baking  a  puflF  paste  requires  care  and 
judgment.  When  thoroughly  chilled, 
roll  and  cut  as  desired,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  with  greatest  heat  at  the 
bottom.  While  rising,  it  is  often  nec- 
essary to  decrease  the  heat  by  lifting 
covers  or  opening  the  check  draft.  Turn 
paste  frequently  that  it  may  rise  evenly. 
When  risen,  slip  a  pan  under  the 
sheet  on  which  paste  is  baking  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Puff  paste  should  be 
baked  on  a  tin  sheet.  Cover  with  a 
double  thickness  of  brown  paper  or 
turn  a  dripping  pan  upside  down,  cover 
the  bottom  with  a  layer  of  brown  pa- 
per,  and  bake  upon  that. 


275.     GRAHAM    PIE    CRUST. 

1^    cups  graham  flour. 

H   teaspoon   salt. 

Sweet  cream  to  moisten  until  dough 
will  just  barely  cling  together. 

Have  cream  and  flour  very  cold.  Mix 
quickly,  roll  and  use  as  other  pie  crust; 
handle  lightly,  fill  and  put  into  the 
oven   as   quickly   as   possible. 

Half  graham  and  half  white  flour  is 
liked  better  by  some. 


276.     APPLE    PIE. 

Pare,  core  and  slice  apples  to  fill  the 
number  of  pies  desired.  After  lining 
pie  plates  with  crust,  lay  in  slices  of 
apples,  arranging  rows  around  the 
plate;  when  bottom  is  covered  with  one 
layer,  fill  center  even  full  with  addi- 
tional layers,  allowing  Y^  cup  of  sugar 
to  each  pie.  Mix  ^  teaspoon  of  salt 
with  the  sugar,  sprinkle  over  top  of 
apples  with  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice. 
Grate  nutmeg  over  all.  Distribute  a 
teaspoon  of  butter  in  small  bits  and 
cover  with  upper  crust  as  directed  in 
pie  crust  No.   271. 

277.     DRIED  APPLE  PIE. 

Home  dried  apples  are  best. 

Stew  them  very  soft  and  mash 
through  a  colander.  While  stewing, 
add  2  or  3  small  bits  of  lemon  or 
orange  peel,  previously  dried  and  saved 
for  cooking  purposes;  flavor  with  a 
little  cinnamon  and  nutmeg;  sweeten 
with  brown  sugar;  a  beaten  egg  may 
be  added  if  desired.  Fill  lower  crust 
nearly  full  and  cover  as  directed  in 
pie  crust  No.   271. 

A  one  crust  dried  apple  pie  is  nice 
with  1/2  inch  strips  laid  across  the  top 
1J4  inches  apart,  then  another  row  of 
strips  laid  across  at  right  angles  to 
form  squares. 

278.     BLUEBERRY    PIE. 

Brush  over  lower  crust  after  lining 
the  plate,  with  beaten  egg;  fill  the 
crust  nearly  even  full  of  blueberries 
which  have  been  carefully  washed  and 
picked  over;  mix  1  heaping  tablespoon 
of  cornstarch  or  flour  and  %  tea- 
spoon of  salt  into  a  half  cup  of  sugar; 
sprinkle  this  over  the  berries,  cover 
and  bake  about  45  minutes. 

279.     COCOANUT   PIE. 

1   pint  milk. 

1  cocoanut  minced  in  coarse  meat 
cutter  or  1   cup  of  dessicated  cocoanut. 

1  cup   sugar. 

3  eggs. 

Mix  the  chopped  or  dessicated  cocoa- 
nut  with  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  and  the 
sugar;  add  the  milk;  fill  the  plate  even 
full  and  bake.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
stiff,  stir  in  3  tablespoons  of  pulver- 
ized sugar,  pour  over  the  pie  and  bake 
to   a    light  brown. 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


93 


280.     CRANBERRY  PIE. 

1^    cups   chopped   cranberries. 

^    cup  chopped   raisins. 

1  cup  hot  water. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  pour  hot  water 
gradually  over,  stirring  smooth.  Add 
the  fruit  coarsely  chopped,  cook  a 
few  minutes,  partly  cool,  flavor  and 
fill  crust  arranged  for  a  one  crust  pie 
in    a    deep    plate. 

281.  CURRANT  PIE. 

Prepare  filling  as  follows:  stem  and 
wash  currants  and  allow  1  cup  for  each 
pie.  Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1 
tablespoon  of  water  and  stir  in  one 
cup  sugar  which  has  been  mixed  with 
%  cup  of  flour;  stir  in  currants  and 
fill  lower  crust.  Cover  with  upper 
crust  or  bake  as  a  one  crust  pie,  cov- 
ering when  done  with  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  stiff  and  mixed  with  2  table- 
spoons powdered  sugar.  Return  to  the 
oven  until  meringue  is  lightly  browned. 

282.  CUSTARD  PIE. 

3  cups  rich  milk. 

3  eggs. 

1  heaping  tablespoon  flour. 

4  large  tablespoons  light  brown  su- 
gar  (or  part  maple  is  better). 

A  pinch  of  salt. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  in  double  boiler;  mix 
sugar  and  flour,  and  add  to  beaten 
eggs,  stirring  until  perfectly  smooth; 
add  salt,  pour  the  hot  milk  slowly 
into  the  mixture  while  stirring;  use 
only  as  much  milk  as  needed  to  fill 
plate.  Just  before  pouring  into  crust, 
add  vanilla.  Fill  crust  prepared  as  di- 
rected in  No.  271  for  a  one  crust  pie, 
being  careful  not  to  fill  above  the  top 
of  the  plate.  If  liquid  does  not  come 
to  top  of  plate,  add  a  little  more  of  the 
hot  milk,  stirring  it  in  without  touch- 
ing crust.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven;  it  is 
done  when  a  knife  cut  into  the  cus- 
tard comes  out  clean. 

For  a  richer  pie,  use  5  eggs  and 
omit  the  flour. 

283.    FRUIT  PIES. 

Fruit  pies  made  of  berries,  should 
be  treated  the  same  as  blueberry  pie 
(see    No.    278).     For   peach    or   apricot 


pie,  pare  and  stone  the  fruit,  cut  into 
fourths  then  into  eighths  and  fill  lower 
crust  as  directed  for  apple  pie;  sprinkle 
over  with  sugar,  in  which  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  cornstarch  has  been 
mixed.     Cover  and  bake. 

For  fruit  pies,  upper  and  lower  crust 
may  first  be  baked  if  desired.  Line 
plate  for  lower  crust  as  usual;  spread 
upper  crust  upon  a  sheet  of  tin  or  the 
bottom  of  a  dripping  pan  and  bake  both 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Then  fill  the  lower 
crust,  prick  the  upper  crust  and  slip 
it  into  place  on  the  top  of  pie.  Re- 
turn to  the  oven  until  filling  is  heated 
through. 

284.     CREAM    BERRY   PIE. 

1  Yz    cups  berries. 

1  cup  cream. 

1   cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoon   flour. 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  stir  into  ber- 
ries, add  cream  and  bake  as  a  one 
crust  pie.  Blueberries,  blackberries, 
black   or   red   raspberries   may   be   used. 

285.  LEMON  PIE. 

1  large  lemon. 

1  cup    sugar. 
Yolks  of   3  eggs. 
White  of   1    egg. 
Cutter   size  of  a   walnut. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 

3  tablespoons  cold  water. 
1  cup  boiling  water. 

Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  out  ttfe 
juice  of  the  lemon.  Moisten  flour  with 
cold  water,  stirring  until  smooth;  add 
cup  of  boiling  water  gradually  and 
cook  a  few  moments  in  a  sauce  pan; 
add  butter  to  flour  mixture.  Beat  the 
eggs,  add  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind, 
then  add  sugar,  the  flour  and  butter 
mixtuj-e  and  the  stiffly  beaten  white. 
When  evenly  mixed,  bake  as  a  one 
crust  pie  in  a  deep  plate,  having  the 
edge  of  crust  pinched  up  around  the 
edge  to  prevent  running  over.  Do  not 
fill  pie  above  edge  of  plate. 

286.  MERINGUE. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

4  tablespoons   powdered  sugar. 
14   teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Beat  the  whites  until  stiff,  add  cream 
of  tartar,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  spread 
upon  the  top  of  a  freshly  baked  lemon 
(or  any  other)  pie.  Return  pie  to  the 
oven  until  meringue  is  lightly  browned. 


94 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


287.     TRANSPARENT    PIE. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut. 

1  tablespoon  milk. 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  or  lemon 
extract. 

Mix  sugar,  beaten  eggs  and  butter  in 
milk.  Add  lemon  juice  or  lemon  ex- 
tract  slowly;   bake  as  a  two  crust  pie. 

288.     PINEAPPLE  PIE. 

1  cup  sugar. 

H    cup   butter. 

1  cup  sweet  cream. 

5  eggs. 

1  pineapple,    grated. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream; 
add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the 
pineapple  and  cream,  and  finally  the 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake  as  a  one 
crust  pie. 


289.     PUMPKIN    PIE. 

1J4  cups   pumpkin. 
1  tablespoon  molasses. 
y^.  cup   light  brown   sugar    (or  maple 
if  possible). 

Yz   teaspoon   salt. 

1  egg. 

y^  cup  rich  milk  or  thin  cream. 

%.  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  gin- 
ger and  nutmeg. 

Stew  a  small  pumpkin  which  has  been 
cut  into  strips,  pared  and  cut  into  2- 
inch  squares.  Put  on  to  cook  in  2  cups 
of  water,  just  enough  to  cover  bottom 
of  kettle  and  furnish  steam;  add  more 
water  if  necessary.  Simmer  slowly  and 
do  not  allow  to  scorch  but  keep  water 
when  tender  set  back,  uncover,  and 
simmer  until  water  has  evaporated; 
mash  and  stir  with  spoon  and  dry  out 
the  water  as  much  as  possible;  press 
through  a  colander;  pumpkin  is  now 
ready  to  use. 

For  each  average  deep  pie,  prepare 
filling  in  the  proportions  given  above. 
Use  good  sized  deep  earthen  plates; 
pumpkin  pies  of  early  days  were  made 
2  or  more  inches  deep  in  shallow  bak- 
ing pans.  Measure  pumpkin  and  stir 
in  molasses;  beat  the  egg,  add  sugar, 
salt,  milk  or  cream  and  spices.  Fill 
the  under  crust  which  has  been  well 
pinched  up  at  the  edges,  allowing  liquid 
to  come  only  to  top  of  plate.  Bake  in 
moderate   oven. 


290.     RAISIN   PIE. 

1  cup  raisins. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 
1  lemon. 

1  cup   sugar. 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut. 

Cook  the  raisins  in  water  to  cover 
well;  then  add  other  ingredients.  Bake 
with  two  crusts. 

291.     RHUBARB  PIE. 

2  cups  rhubarb. 
1  egg. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

Wash  rhubarb  and  cut  into  %  inch 
lengths.  Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add 
rhubarb  and  beaten  egg;  fill  under 
crust,  cover  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  45  minutes. 


292. 


RHUBARB  PIE  WITH 
RAISINS. 


2  cups  rhubarb. 
J^  cup  raisins. 
%  cup  nut  meats. 

1  cup   light  brown   sugar. 

2  rounding  tablespoons  flour  or  corn- 
starch. 

1  ^gg- 

Wash  rhubarb  and  cut  into  J^  inch 
lengths;  flour  raisins  well  and  chop  in 
meat  cutter;  chop  nuts  and  mix  with 
raisins  and  a  little  more  flour.  Mix 
cornstarch  or  flour  with  sugar.  Beat 
the  egg,  add  rhubarb,  raisins  and  nuts. 
Fill  under  crust,  scatter  sugar  and 
cornstarch  over  the  top.  Cover  and 
bake  45    minutes   in   a   moderate   oven. 

293.     ROLEY    FOLEY. 

Prepare  pie  crust  No.  273,  or  pie 
crust  No.  271,  making  double  quantity 
for  about  six  individual  Roley  Poleys. 
Divide  dough  into  six  parts  and  roll 
them  into  a  round  shape.  Just  at  one 
side  of  the  center,  arrange  a  mound 
of  apple  slices,  covered  with  brown 
sugar  mixed  with  a  little  flour;  sprinkle 
with  nutmeg;  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice.  Fold  the  other  half  of  crust 
over  the  filling,  turn  the  double  edges 
under  and  pinch  firmly  together.  Lay 
upon  plates  or  into  dripping  pan  and 
bake,  pricking  the  tops.  These  are  de- 
licious   filled   with    blueberries   or   rasp- 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


95 


berries,  berries  being  mixed  with  a 
little  sugar  and  cornstarch  (a  table- 
spoon of  cornstarch  to  %  cup  of  su- 
gar). Rhubarb,  peaches,  apricots  or 
almost  any  fresh  fruits  may  be  used. 

Roley  Foley  may  be  prepared  from 
canned  fruits.  Drain  the  fruit  for  in- 
side; reserve  juice  for  sauce  made  as 
follows:  to  a  cup  of  juice  add  1  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  cornstarch  and  a 
little  sugar  if  not  sweet  enough.  Heat 
in  double  boiler  or  a  small  sauce  pan 
for  15  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 
This  makes  a  slightly  thickened  sauce 
the  color  of  the  fruit  juice. 


294.     TART  SHELLS. 

Yz    cup   rather   thin   cream. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

Flour  to   roll. 

Thoroughly  chill  cream,  eggs  and 
flour;  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  to  the 
cream;  whip  briskly  for  10  minutes, 
add  white  flour  to  roll,  making  dough 
quite  dry.  Cut  into  desired  shapes, 
bake  quickly  but  do  not  brown.  Fill 
after  baking. — (Mrs.  E.  E.  Kellogg, 
A.   M.) 


295.     TART   FILLINGS. 

Tarts  may  be  filled  with  any  jelly 
or  a  lemon  filling  may  be  made  as  fol- 
lows: into  one  cup  of  boiling  water 
stir  2  level  tablespoons  of  cornstarch, 
previously  rubbed  smooth  with  the 
juice  of  a  large  lemon.  Cook  until  it 
thickens;  then  add  Yz  cup  of  sugar, 
and  a  little  grated  yellow  rind  of  the 
lemon. 

296.     SCOTCH    SHORT    BREAD. 

1  pound  butter. 

1  cup   sugar. 

Flour. 

1  teaspoon  caraway  seed. 

Yellow  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  the 
yellow  portion  of  a  lemon  rind  grated, 
1  teaspoon  of  caraway  seed  and  flour 
to  make  it  firm  enough  to  roll.  Tip 
out  upon  a  sheet  of  tin  and  roll  out 
to  a  half  inch  thickness.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  until  thoroughly  done.  Cut 
as  soon  as  removed  from  the  oven 
into  strips  about  one  inch  wide  and  2 
inches  long.  Cool,  then  carefully  pack 
into  an  earthen  jar  or  tin  box.  This 
may  be  kept  for  months  and  is  the 
genuine   Scotch   Short  Bread. 


XDC 
Pudding^s 


WITH  FRUIT  FOUNDATION. 

297.  BAKED  BANANAS  WITH 
BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Remove  skins  from  6  bananas  and 
cut  in  halves,  lengthwise.  Put  into  a 
shallow  granite  pan.  Mix  2  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter,  Yi  cup  of  sugar  and 
2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice.  Baste 
bananas  with  half  of  the  mixture; 
bake  20  minutes  in  a  slow  oven  and 
baste  during  baking  with  remaining 
mixture. — (Fannie    M.    Farmer.) 


298. 


BAKED  BANANAS  WITH 
CURRANT  SAUCE. 


Remove  a  section  of  banana  skin 
and  loosen  the  fruit  from  the  rest  of 
the  skin;  remove  all  coarse  threads 
and  replace  the  fruit  in  its  original 
position  in  the  skin.  ~  Bake  Y2  dozen 
bananas  thus  prepared  in  a  hot  oven 
until    the    skin    is    blackened    and    the 


pulp  is  softened.  Take  the  pulp  from 
the  skin  without  injury  to  shape  and 
dispose  on  a  serving  dish  in  half  cir- 
cles. Brush  over  with  half  melted 
currant  jelly  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  pecan  meats. — (Mrs.  Janet 
McKenzie  Hill.) 

299.     PRUNE   WHIP. 

Prepare  a  prune  marmalade  as  fol- 
lows: clean  sweet  California  prunes, 
washing  thoroughly  in  warm  water  and 
rubbing  gdntly  between  the  hands; 
rinse  several  times.  Put  into  sauce 
pan  with  water  to  just  cover  and  allow 
to  simmer  several  hours,  keeping  the 
dish  covered.  If  water  boils  away,  a 
little  more  may  be  added,  but  at  the 
end  the  juice  should  be  almost  en- 
tirely evaporated.  When  done,  rub 
through  a  colander  to  remove  skins 
and  stones.  Put  into  a  small  baking 
dish    and   place   this    in    a   pan    of   hot 


96 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


water;  cook  in  a  slow  oven  until  the 
marmalade  retains  its  shape  when  cut 
with  a  knife.  Remove  from  the  oven, 
cover  the  top  with  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  and  sweeten  with  2  table- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar;  when  half 
beaten  add  ^  teaspoon  cream  of  tar- 
tar. Return  to  the  oven  until  lightly 
browned  and  serve  hot. 

300.  BAKED  RHUBARB. 

Wash  rhubarb  and  remove  fibrous 
skin;  cut  into  1  inch  lengths;  arrange 
in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkling  a  very 
little  light  brown  sugar  ^  and  a  table- 
spoon of  Canton  preserved  ginger  (cut 
into  yi  inch  dice)  over  each  layer  of 
rhubarb;  after  the  last  sprinkling  of 
sugar  and  rhubarb,  pour  over  %  oi  a 
cup  of  boiling  water;  cover  closely  and 
bake  15  or  20  minutes,  or  until  rhu- 
barb is  tender.     Serve  hot  with  cream. 

A  small  piece  of  dried  ginger  root 
cut  into  pieces,  may  be  substituted  for 
the  Canton  preserved  ginger  if  more 
convenient;  the  ginger  root  is_  much 
stronger  and  only  a  little  is  required. 

PUDDINGS  WITH  BREAD  OR 
CRACKER  FOUNDATION. 

301.  BROWN  BETTY. 

Put  a  layer  of  sweetened  apple  sauce 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Add  a 
few  bits  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs  sprinkled  with  a  little 
cinnamon;  then  a  layer  of  sauce,  etc., 
finishing  with  crumbs  and  cinnamon  at 
top.  Bake  30  minutes  and  serve  hot 
with  cold  cream  sweetened  with  maple 
or  light  brown  sugar. 

302.     BREAD  PUDDING. 

1  quart  sv/eet  milk. 

1  quart  bread  crumbs. 

4  eggs. 

4  tablespoons  sugar. 

1  cup   raisins. 

Soak  bread  in  half  of  the  milk  until 
soft;  mash  fine  and  add  the  rest  of 
the  milk,  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  su- 
gar, then  the  raisins.  Bake  one  hour 
and  serve  warm  with  maple  or  brown 
sugar  hard  sauce. 

303.     BAKED   APPLE    PUDDING. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  bread 
crumbs;  when  soft,  squeeze  out  all  the 


water  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  a  buttered  earthen  pudding  dish 
with  the  crumbs.  Fill  the  interior  with 
sliced  apples  and  cover  with  a  layer 
of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  covered 
dish,  set  into  a  pan  of  hot  water,  un- 
til apples  are  tender;  then  remove  the 
cover  and  brown.  Loosen  the  pudding 
with  a  knife,  invert  on  a  plate  and 
it  will  turn  out  whole.  Serve  with 
cream. — (Mrs.   E.   E.  Kellogg,  A.  M.) 

304.     PRUNE  PUDDING. 

Moisten  rather  thin  slices  of  stale 
bread  in  hot  milk  and  place  in  a  pud- 
ding dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
stewed  prunes  from  which  stones  have 
been  removed;  sprinkle  the  top  with 
bread  crumbs.  Pour  over  the  whole 
a  little  more  hot  milk,  mixed  with 
extra  prune  juice  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  45  minutes.  Serve  with 
cream. 


305. 


BAKED    BLUEBERRY    PUD- 
DING. 


1  quart  new  milk.' 

1  quart  fine   bread   crumbs. 

2  quarts   fresh   blueberries. 

1  or  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling;  fill  a  pud- 
ding dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
bread  crumbs  and  berries,  beginning 
and  ending  with  crumbs.  Add  the 
sugar  to  the  milk,  let  it  dissolve  and 
pour  the  whole  over  the  pudding.  Cover 
closely  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  nearly 
an  hour,  setting  pudding  dish  into  a 
pan  of  hot  water.  Serve  warm  with 
cream.— (Mrs.   E.   E.   Kellogg,   A.   M.) 

306.  BREAD  AND  FRUIT 
CUSTARD. 

2  cups  grated  bread  crumbs. 

2  cups  finely    chopped    tart    apples. 

1  cup  English  currants  or  stoned 
raisins  mixed  with  a  very  little  chopped 
citron  for  flavor. 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 

3  cups  of  milk. 
2  eggs. 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add 
the  milk,  bread,  fruit,  then  the  well 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  a 
buttered  pudding  dish  set  into  a  pan 
of  hot  water  until  the  custard  is  set. — 
(Mrs.  E.  E.  Kellogg,  A.  M.) 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


97 


307.     APPLE    CHARLOTTE. 

Pare  and  slice  4  or  5  times  as 
many  apples  as  will  fill  the  dish  in 
which  charlotte  is  to  be  made.  Steam 
these  until  tender;  then  add  sugar  to 
taste  and  a  generous  piece  of  butter 
and  cook  apples  over  the  fire,  stirring 
meanwhile  until  they  are  very  dry.  Cut 
J4  inch  slices  of  bread  into  strips  an 
inch  wide,  trim  off  crust,  and  dip  into 
melted  butter.  With  these  line  a  plain 
mould  allowing  strips  to  overlap  each 
other.  Arrange  circles  cut  from  bread 
slices  in  the  bottom  of  the  mould, 
turning  the  apple  in  and  piling  it  high 
on  the  top,  then  cover  with  buttered 
bread.  Bake  Yz  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 
Turn  upon  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with 
sweet  cream. — (Mrs.  Janet  McKenzie 
Hill.) 

PUDDINGS    WITH   FLOUR 
FOUNDATION. 

308.     DRIED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

1  cup  dried  apples. 

1  cup  West  India  molasses  (not  too 
dark). 

1^    cups  flour. 

y^    cup   butter. 

1  egg. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon   cinnamon. 

Yz    teaspoon   ground   clove. 

Wash  and  soak  apples  over  night; 
cut  fine  and  mix  with  water  in  which 
they  were  soaked.  Add  molasses  and 
spice;  mix  egg,  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether; add  with  soda  to  apples  and 
molasses  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish. 
Serve  hot  with  vanilla  hard  sauce. 


309.     MINUTE   PUDDING. 

Cook  1  quart  of  strawberries  or  red 
raspberries  in  at  pint  of  water  until 
well  heated.  Sweeten  to  taste;  skim 
out  the  fruit  and  into  the  boiling  juice 
stir  a  scant  cup  of  wheat  flour  previ- 
ously rubbed  to  a  paste  with  a  little 
cold  water.  Cook  15  or  20  minutes, 
pour  over  the  fruit  and  serve  either 
hot   or   cold   with   cream. 

310.     COTTAGE    PUDDING. 


J4  cup  of  butter. 
Yz  cup  of  sugar. 
1  egg. 


1  cup  milk. 

2Y\   cups  flour. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually and  egg  well  beaten;  mix  and 
sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  add 
alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture; 
turn  into  buttered  cake  pan  and  bake 
35  minutes;   serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 


311.    MOTHER'S    PUFF    PUDDINGS. 

1  pint  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  teaspoon   salt. 

]\Iilk  to  make  a  soft  batter. 

1  pint   fresh   fruit. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt 
together;  add  milk  very  gradually  un- 
til batter  will  nearly,  but  not  quite 
drop  when  dipped  up  on  the  spoon. 
Have  ready  a  pint  of  fresh  fruit;  red 
raspberries,  black  raspberries,  blueber- 
ries or  peaches  are  very  nice.  Grease 
6  cups  thoroughly,  drop  a  tablespoon 
of  batter  into  each,  then  a  heaping 
spoon  of  fruit  and  cover  with  another 
spoon  of  batter.  Cook  in  a  steamer 
for  20  minutes  without  uncovering. 
Serve  with  hot  fruit  sauce  (see  No. 
350). 


312.     GRANDMOTHER'S     STEAMED 
FRUIT  PUDDING. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoon    soda. 

Yi,   teaspoon    salt. 

!"   cup    fruit. 

/lour  to  make  stiff  batter  (about 
2Y2    cups). 

Beat  the  eggs  and  stir  in  the  sugar. 
Dissolve  soda  in  the  milk,  add  to  the 
mixture  and  stir  in  fruit  and  salt; 
thicken  with  flour,  rather  thicker  than 
for  cake;  put  into  a  2-quart  mould  or 
pail  and  set  into  a  steamer;  steam  IH 
hours.  This  pudding  is  light  and  de- 
licious; it  should  crack  open  on  top. 
The  amount  of  flour  required  varies 
with  the  flour  used;  batter  should  be 
moderately  stiff.  Serve  with  cream, 
sweetened  with  a  little  maple  or  light 
brown  sugar  or  use  a  fruit  sauce  (see 
No.  350),  reserving  juice  or  crushed 
fruit   for  the  purpose. 


98 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


313.  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Beat  6  yolks  and  4  whites  of  eggs 
very  light  and  add  to  them  a  tumbler 
of  sweet  milk.  Stir  in  gradually  % 
pound  grated  or  chopped  stale  bread, 
1  pound  sifted  flour,  ^  pound  light 
brown  sugar,  1  pound  of  beef  suet 
minced  in  the  meat  chopper,  Yz  pound 
currants  well  washed  and  dried  in  a 
napkin,  1  pound  stoned  raisins  well 
floured,  J^  pound  citron  cut  very  fine, 
14  pound  almonds  blanched  and  put 
through  coarsest  meat  cutter,  H  pound 
candied  orange  peel  and  J4  pound  pre- 
served Canton  ginger  both  cut  fine,  and 
14  pound  candied  cherries;  stir  well, 
then  add  2  grated  nutmegs,  a  table- 
spoon of  mace,  ^  tablespoon  ground 
cinnamon,  J4  tablespoon  ground  clove, 
1  wineglass  of  brandy,  1  wineglass 
of  sherry,  a  teaspoon  salt,  and  finally 
another  tumbler  of  milk.  Fill  buttered 
moulds  three-fourths  full,  cover  tightly 
and  steam  five  hours.  This  recipe 
makes  two  two-quart  and  two  one- 
quart  puddings  and  can  be  relied  upon 
for  light,  delicious,  perfect  plum  pud- 
dings. Puddings  will  keep  a  year  if 
tipped  from  the  moulds  and,  when  cool, 
wrapped  in  a  perfectly  clean  pudding 
cloth  or  towel  and  set  away  in  a  tin 
box  in  which  is  kept  standing  a  tumbler 
containing   a   wineglass    of    whiskey. 

One  hour  before  serving,  slip  a  pud- 
ding into  the  mould  in  which  it  was 
originally  cooked  and  steam  for  one 
hour.  If  pudding  seems  dry,  leave 
the  cover  off.  To  serve  plum  pudding 
in  true  English  style,  tip  the  hot  pud- 
ding upon  a  heated  platter,  lay  on  a 
spray  of  holly,  and  pour  2  teaspoons 
of  brandy  and  1  teaspoon  of  alcohol, 
mixed,  over  the  pudding.  Touch  a 
match  to  the  spirits  and  send  immedi- 
ately to  the  table.  The  pudding  should 
be  carried  steadily  that  flame  may  not 
be  extinguished. 

Note: — Brandy  and  sherry  may  be 
omitted  from  the  pudding  if  objec- 
tionable, but  plum  pudding  is  never 
complete  without  them.  The  long  cook- 
ing causes  complete  evaporation  and 
their  presence  cannot  be  perceived;  but 
the  pudding  is  more  digestible  and 
much   finer  in  flavor   if  they  are   used. 

PUDDINGS     WITH     CORNSTARCH 
FOUNDATION. 

314.  CORNSTARCH    PUDDING. 

1   pint  sweet  milk. 
Whites   of   3   eggs. 


2  tablespoons  cornstarch. 

3  tablespoons  sugar. 
l/i   teaspoon  salt. 

Put  the  milk  into  double  boiler  or 
into  a  pail  set  into  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  and  when  milk  is  boiling  hot 
(being  in  double  boiler  it  will  not  bub- 
ble) add  the  sugar,  then  the  starch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  fin- 
ally the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
Beat  the  pudding  until  mixed,  then 
pour  into  individual  dishes,  grate  on  a 
little  nutmeg  and  serve  hot. 

315.  COLD  CORNSTARCH 

PUDDING. 

Prepare  as  above;  pour  into  indi- 
vidual cups,  cool,  tip  out  into  saucers 
and  serve  with  cold  boiled  custard 
around  each  mould. 

316.  CORNSTARCH   WITH 

RAISINS. 

Measure  1  pint  of  rich  milk.  Rub 
2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  perfectly 
smooth  with  a  little  of  the  milk  and 
heat  the  remainder  to  boiling,  adding 
to  it  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Add  the 
cornstarch  paste  and  cook  until  it 
thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Then  add 
1/2  cup  of  raisins  which  have  been 
steamed.  This  may  be  served  hot  with 
sugar  and  cream,  or  turned  into  cups 
to  mould,  the  latter  being  served  with 
boiled  custard  flavored  with  lemon  or 
orange. — (Mrs.  E.  E.  Kellogg,  A.  M.) 

317.     COCOANUT   CORNSTARCH. 

Simmer  a  cup  of  grated  cocoanut 
in  a  cup  of  milk  for  20  minutes;  strain 
the  milk  to  remove  the  cocoanut,  add- 
ing enough  more  milk  to  make  a  full 
quart.  With  a  small  portion  of  it,  rub 
\y2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  to  a 
smooth  paste  and  put  the  remainder 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire.  When 
milk  is  boiling  hot  add  the  cornstarch, 
stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens, 
then  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool. 
Then  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and 
2  well  beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  in  a  dish  set  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water,  until  the  custard  is  well 
set. 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


99 


PUDDINGS  WITH  CUSTARD 
FOUNDATION. 

318.  LEMON  PUDDING. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

1  cup    sugar, 

2  eggs. 

3  well   rounded   tablespoons   flour. 
A  pinch   of  salt. 

1  pint  rich  milk. 

Mix  the  flour  and  part  of  the  milk 
to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  the  juice  and 
rind  of  lemon,  a  cup  of  sugar,  yolks 
of  2  eggs  well  beaten  and  remainder 
of  milk,  having  rinsed  out  the  egg 
with  it.  Line  a  plate  with  puff  paste 
J4  inch  thick,  pour  custard  into  it  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  done. 
Beat  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff, 
add  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  and 
spread  over  the  pudding;  return  to  the 
oven  and  brown  lightly.  Serve  with 
cold  cream.  This  is  a  rich,  but  in- 
expensive  pudding. 

319.     CUP  CUSTARD. 

4  cups  scalded  milk. 
6  eggs. 

Yz  cup    sugar    (maple    if    possible). 

J4  teaspoon   salt. 

A  little  nutmeg. 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar  and 
salt,  pour  in  slowly  the  scalded  milk; 
strain  into  buttered  cups  or  individual 
moulds,  set  into  a  pan  of  hot  water. 
Sprinkle  with  nutmeg  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  until  firm,  which  may  be 
readily  determined  by  running  a  silver 
knife  through  the  custard.  If  knife 
comes  out  clean,  the  custard  is  done. 
During  baking,  care  must  be  taken  that 
water  surrounding  the  mold  does  not 
reach  the  boiling  point,  or  the  custard 
will  whey.  Also  bear  in  mind  that 
eggs  and  milk  in  combination  must  be 
cooked  at  a  low  temperature.  If  less 
eggs  are  used,  custard  is  liable  to 
crack  when  turned  out  upon  serving 
dish. — (Fannie  M.   Farmer.) 

PUDDINGS  WITH  CEREAL 

FOUNDATION. 

320.     HALF    HOUR    PUDDING. 

Beat  4  tablespoons  of  butter  to  a 
cream  with  1  cup  powdered  sugar;  add 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  beating  them  in 
thoroughly,    then    2    cups    of    cornmeal 


and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  a 
pudding  dish  well  buttered.  Serve  hot 
with  sweet  cream  or  a  hot  pudding 
sauce. 

321.     BAKED    INDIAN   PUDDING. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 
1  ounce  butter. 

4  eggs. 

1  cup  cornmeal. 

Yi   pound  raisins. 

Vi,  pound  sugar. 

Scald  the  milk  in  double  boiler  and 
stir  in  slowly  the  cornmeal,  beating 
carefully  to  prevent  lumps;  heat  thor- 
oughly, then  allow  to  stand  until  blood 
warm;  add  remaining  ingredients  hav- 
ing the  eggs  well  beaten;  bake  IJ^ 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with 
sweet  cream. 

322.     INDIAN  PUDDING  WITHOUT 
BUTTER. 

5  cups  scalded  milk. 
Yi  cup  Indian  meal. 
Y2   cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  ginger. 

Pour  milk  slowly  on  the  meal  cooked 
in  double  boiler  20  minutes.  Add  mo- 
lasses, salt  and  ginger;  pour  into  but- 
tered pudding  dish  and  bake  2  hours 
in  a  slow  oven;  serve  with  cream.  It 
must  be  baked  slowly  or  meal  will  not 
"set." — (Fannie    M.    Farmer.) 

(For    Boiled    Rice    see    Nos.    473    and 

474.) 

323.     RICE   SNOWBALLS. 

Boil  1  pint  of  rice  until  soft  in  2 
quarts  of  water,  with  a  teaspoon  of 
salt;  put  into  small  cups  and  when  per- 
fectly cold,  place  in  a  dish.  Make  a 
boiled  custard  of  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  1  pint  sweet  milk,  and  1  tea- 
spoon cornstarch.  Flavor  with  lemon. 
When  cold,  pour  over  the  rice  balls 
half  an  hour  before  serving. 

324.     RICE   FRUIT   WITH    CREAM. 

Cold  boiled  rice,  moulded  so  it  can 
be  sliced,  may  be  utilized  in  making 
a  variety  of  delicious  desserts.  A  nice 
pudding  may  be  prepared  by  filling  a 
dish  with  alternate  layers  of  half  inch 
slices  of  moulded  rice  and  half  inch 
layers  of  grated  tart  raw  apples.  Grate 


100 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


a  little  lemon  rind  over  each  layer, 
cover,  and  bake  one  hour,  setting 
pudding  dish  into  a  pan  of  boiling  hot 
water.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 
Stoned  cherries  or  peaches  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  apple. — (Mrs.  E.  E. 
Kellogg,  A.  M.) 

325.     BAKED  RICE. 

y2   pound   rice. 

2  cups    milk. 

3  tablespoons  raisins. 

1  tablespoon  dried  orange  or  lemon 
peel   cut   into  very   small  dice. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 

3  eggs. 

Wash  the  rice  in  cold  water  until 
clear.  Cook  in  boiling  water  until 
quite  soft;  drain,  cool,  and  drain 
again.  Pour  the  rice  into  a  sauce  pan 
with  the  milk,  raisins,  sugar,  orange 
or  lemon  peel  and  cook  slowly  15  min- 
utes. Add  the  beaten  eggs,  stir  well, 
and  pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish ; 
grate  on  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  until 
well  colored.  Knock  out  into  a  serv- 
ing dish  and  serve  with  sweet  cream. 
(If  orange  peel  is  omitted  add  a  few 
more  raisins.) 

In  cold  weather  when  eggs  are  scarce 
this  pudding  is  quite  as  delicious  if  3 
heaping  cups  of  snow  be  stirred  in,  in- 
stead of  the  eggs,  just  before  pouring 
the  pudding  into  baking  dish. 

326.    SAGO  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Pare  and  core  six  apples;  fill  holes 
with  sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon,  using 
1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  to  J4  cup  of 
sugar;  take  1  tablespoon  of  sago  to 
each  apple;  wash  it  thoroughly  and 
soak  one  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover 
the  apples.  Pour  water  and  sago  over 
apples  and  bake   lYz   hours. 

327.     APPLE  TAPIOCA. 

To  a  half  teacup  of  tapioca,  add  \]A 
pints  of  cold  water.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  clear.  Remove,  sweeten 
and  flavor  with  a  wineglass  of  unfer- 
mented  grape  juice  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
Pare  and  core  6  or  8  apples,  arrange 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  fill  the  cavi- 
ties with  sugar  mixed  with  a  bit  of 
nutmeg,  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice 
and  grate  a  little  of  the  rind  over  the 
apples.  Pour  tapioca  mixture  over 
them  and  bake  until  apples  are  done. 
Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with  cream. 


Firm  peaches  pared  and  cooked  in 
water  to  cover  until  nearly  tender,  may 
be  used  in  place  of  apples.. 

328.  CHERRY  TAPIOCA. 
Soak  and  cook  J/^  cup  of  tapioca  in 
2  cups  of  water  until  transparent, 
using  double  boiler.  Place  2  cups  of 
pitted  cherries  in  a  buttered  pudding 
dish,  pour  the  tapioca  over  them  and 
bake  for  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  hot  with   sweet  cream. 

329.  FRUIT  TAPIOCA. 
Cook  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  tapi- 
oca in  4  cups  of  water  until  smooth 
and  transparent.  Stir  into  it,  lightly, 
1  pint  fresh  strawberries,  raspberries, 
or  any  small  fruit,  adding  sugar  as  re- 
quired. Serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream 
plain  or  whipped. — (Mrs.  E.  E.  Kel- 
logg, A.  M.) 

330.  PRUNE  TAPIOCA. 
Soak    1/2    cup    of   tapioca   over   night. 

In  the  morning  cook  until  transparent 
in  2  cups  of  water.  Stew  2  cups  of 
well  washed  and  stoned  prunes  in  a 
pint  of  water  until  perfectly  tender; 
then  add  the  juice  of  a  good  lemon 
and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Boil  until 
the  syrup  becomes  thick  and  rich.  Turn 
the  prunes  into  a  pudding  dish,  cover 
with  the  cooked  tapioca  and  add  a 
little  grated  lemon  rind.  Bake  lightly. 
Serve  without  dressing  or  with  sweet 
cream. —  (Mrs.   E.   E.   Kellogg,  A.   M.) 

SOUFFLE  PUDDINGS. 

331.      VANILLA   SOUFFLE. 
3  eggs. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  cups   sugar. 

3  tablespoons  sifted  flour. 
1  teaspoon   vanilla. 

The  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Separate  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs, 
putting  yolks  into  a  saucepan;  add  to 
the  yolks,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  table- 
spoons flour,  the  vanilla,  grated  lemon 
rind  (use  yellow  portion  only),  1  pint 
of  milk,  and  allow  to  cook,  while 
beating,  for  about  ten  minutes.  Beat 
the  whites  stiff  and  pour  into  the 
sauce  pan  little  by  little,  while  stir- 
ring. Pour  the  whole  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  puffed  and  lightly  browned. 
Serve  with  a  bit  of  granulated  sugar 
sprinkled  over  it. 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


101 


332.     LEMON  SOUFFLE. 

5  eggs. 

3  tablespoons    powdered    sugar. 

The    grated    rind    of    H    a   lemon. 

2  tablespoons   lemon    juice. 

J4  teaspoon  salt. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  light  col- 
ored and  thick;  add  sugar  gradually, 
then  the  grated  rind  and  lemon  juice; 
pour  this  mixture  over  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff  (add  salt 
to  the  whites  before  beating) ;  cut  and 
fold  all  together.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
until   well   puffed   and   lightly  browned. 


333.     CHESTNUT  SOUFFLE. 

%  cup    sugar. 

2  tablespoons    flour. 

1  cup  chestnut  puree. 

J4  cup   milk. 

Whites   of    3    eggs. 

A  pinch   of  salt. 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  chestnut 
puree  (see  No.  264)  and  milk  grad- 
ually; cook  5  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  whites 
of  eggs  and  beat  until  stiff;  cut  and 
fold  into  mixture.  Bake  as  for  Lemon 
Souffle. 

If  souffles  are  baked  in  a  tin  or  thin 
metal  dish,  the  pudding  dish  should  be 
set  into  a  pan  of  hot  water.  If  a 
thick  earthen  pudding  dish  is  used, 
this  is  not  necessary. 


XX 

Cold  Desserts 

(See  Fruits,  Nos.  503  to   508.) 


334.     MIDSUMMER    DREAM. 

Make  a  compote  of  fruits,  using 
sliced  bananas,  sliced  oranges.  Concord 
grapes,  white  grapes,  pears  cut  into 
small  pieces,  apples  cut  small,  also 
pineapple  or  any  fruits  which  combine 
well,  having  a  variety  of  at  least  four 
or'  five.  Mix  fruits  lightly  without 
mashing  and  cover  with  sugar,  allow- 
ing 3  tablespoons  to  a  cup  of  fruit, 
also  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Have 
ready  a  mould  of  cold  boiled  rice; 
thoroughly  chill  the  fruit  and  arrange 
individual  dishes  with  a  slice  or  spoon- 
ful of  rice  at  one  side,  2  tablespoons 
of  the  fruit,  and  cover  liberally  with 
whipped  cream.  Or,  arrange  the  fruit 
around  mould  of  rice,  in  a  large  dish, 
garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  serve 
more  in  a  separate  bowl. 


DESSERTS  WITH  GELATINE 
FOUNDATION. 

335.     LEMON  JELLY. 

y2    ounce    granulated    sparkling    gel; 
tine. 

2  cups    cold    water. 
4  cups  boiling  water. 


lyz   cups  sugar. 

The  juice  of  3   lemons. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  watet 
for  five  minutes.  Add  the  boiling 
water  and  the  sugar  and  stir  until 
dissolved;  add  juice  of  3  lemons  and 
strain  through  a  jelly  bag  into  moulds 
which  have  been  filled  with  cold  water 
and  emptied  without  wiping.  When 
cool,  serve  with  sweet  cream. 


336.     LEMON   SNOW. 

Prepare  as  for  lemon  jelly  and  when 
cooled  until  somewhat  thickened,  but 
not  perfectly  set,  beat  with  Dover  egg 
beater  until  it  resembles  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Return  to  the  mould 
and   cool    thoroughly. 

This  is  delicious  with  a  cup  of  nut 
meats  (ground  in  coarsest  meat  cutter) 
stirred    in    when    beating. 


337.     FRUIT  JELLY. 

When  lemon  jelly  begins  to  set,  add 
banana  slices,  white  grapes,  small  bits 
of  orange,  figs  or  any  fruit  combina- 
tion desired,  distributing  the  fruit  even- 
ly through  the  jelly.  Set  away  until 
thoroughly  cooled. 


102 


THE   MONARCH    COOK    BOOK. 


338.     PRUNE    JELLY. 

Make  a  lemon  jelly  (see  No.  335), 
using  only  1  cup  of  sugar  and  3  cups 
boiling  water;  have  ready  2^  cups  of 
prunes,  which  have  been  simmered  as 
directed  for  Prune  Whip;  when  partly 
cool,  remove  stones  and  put  the  prunes 
through  the  meat  chopper;  also  have 
ready  Yz  cup  of  pecan  meats,  which 
have  been  put  through  the  coarsest 
meat  cutter;  stir  ground  prunes  and 
nuts  into  the  lemon  jelly,  working  the 
prune  pulp  with  spoon  until  it  is 
evenly  distributed  through  the  jelly. 
Pour  into  moulds  which  have  been  wet 
with   cold  water,   and  chill. 


339.     COFFEE    JELLY. 

y^  ounce  of  sparkling  gelatine. 

^  cup    sugar. 

Yz  cup    cold    water. 

2  cups    strong   coffee. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

Soak  gelatine  in  the  half  cup  of  cold 
water  five  minutes;  pour  over  it  2  cups 
of  strong  boiling  coffee;  when  dis- 
solved, stir  in  54  cup  of  sugar  and  add 
1  cup  boiling  water;  strain  into  wet 
moulds;    serve    with    whipped    cream. 

DESSERTS   WITH   EGG 
FOUNDATION. 

340.     APPLE  SNOW. 

Whites   of    3    eggs. 

54  cup   apple  pulp. 

Powdered    sugar. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  4  sour  apples; 
steam  until  soft  and  rub  through  a 
sieve;  there  should  be  Y^  cup  of  apple 
pulp.  Beat  on  a  platter  the  whites  of 
eggs  until  stiff.  Add  gradually  the 
apple  sweetened  to  taste,  and  continue 
beating.  Chill  in  a  wet  mould,  turn 
out  into  a  shallow  dish,  pour  cold  boiled 
custard    around   it   and   serve. 


341.     RASPBERRY  WHIP. 

154   cups  raspberries. 

1    cup   powdered    sugar. 

The   white   of    1    egg. 

Put  ingredients  in  bowl  and  beat 
with  wire  whisk  until  stiff  enough  to 
mould  into  shape;  about  30  minutes 
will     be     required     for     beating.      Pile 


lightly  on  a  dish,  chill,  surround  with 
Lady  Fingers,  and  serve  with  boiled 
custard. — (Fannie   M.    Farmer.) 

342.     FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Make  a  boiled  custard,  using  1  pint 
of  milk  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and 
flavor  with  3  tablespoons  cocoanut. 
Sweeten  to  taste  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler.  When  custard  adheres  to  the 
spoon,  turn  into  a  glass  dish.  Have 
ready  the  whites  of  eggs  whipped  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  drop  for  a  few  sec- 
onds by  spoonfuls  upon  the  top  of  a 
sauce  pan  of  boiling  hot  water,  turning 
so  that  both  sides  may  be  poached; 
skim  off  and  arrange  the  islands  upon 
the  top  of  the  custard.  When  cold, 
drop  tiny  cubes  of  preserved  Canton 
ginger  upon  the  islands;  or  currant 
jelly  may  be  used.     Chill  until  needed. 

343.     FRUIT    CUSTARD. 

Heat  1  pint  of  red  raspberry,  straw- 
berry or  currant  juice  to  boiling  and 
stir  into  it  2  even  tablespoons  of  corn- 
starch, rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Stir  constantly  until  thick- 
ened, then  add  5^  cup  sugar  or  less  if 
the  fruit  juice  has  been  sweetened. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and  3 
tablespoons  of  sugar.  When  done,  set 
on  the  ice  to  cool.  Serve  in  a  glass 
dish,  placing  the  fruit  mixture  by 
spoonfuls  upon  the  top. —  (Mrs.  E.  E. 
Kellogg,   A.   M.) 

344.     SEA   MOSS. 

Yi    cup   of   Irish   moss. 
1   quart   milk. 
^    teaspoon   salt. 

1^  teaspoons  vanilla  or  1  teaspoon 
of    lemon    juice. 

Soak  moss  in  water  to  cover,  about 
15  minutes.  Drain,  pick  over,  remov- 
ing all  sprays  which  do  not  look  clear 
and  clean,  rinse  again,  drain  and  add 
to  the  milk;  cook  30  minutes  in  double 
boiler;  add  salt,  strain  through  a  wire 
sieve,  pressing  some  of  the  sea  moss 
through,  if  the  flavor  is  liked.  Flavor 
and  fill  a  mold  or  individual  molds 
which  have  been  wet  in  cold  water; 
chill,  turn  out  upon  a  shallow  dish  and 
serve  with  sweet  cream.  Sliced  banana 
may  be  served  around  the  blanc  mange. 
— (Fannie  M.   Farmer.) 


THE   MONARCH   COOK    BOOK. 


103 


XXI 
Pudding  Satfces 


345.  CORNSTARCH  SAUCE. 

2  cups   boiling  water. 

1  rounding  teacup  sugar. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 

1  tablespoon    cornstarch. 

Cold  water. 

1  tablespoon   butter. 

Nutmeg   or   vanilla. 

Mix  first  five  ingredients  and  cook 
in  double  boiler  20  minutes,  dissolving 
cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  water  before 
adding;  just  before  removing  from  the 
fire,  add  the  butter  and  grate  in  a 
little  nutmeg  or  flavor  with  a  teaspoon 
of  vanilla.  This  sauce  should  be  very 
clear. 

Or,  omitting  other  flavorings,  add  a 
tablespoon  of  currant  jelly,  dissolved 
in  a  tablespoon  of  hot  water;  or  a 
tablespoon  of  raspberry  or  currant  syrup 
may  be  added. 

346.  MAPLE  CREAM  SAUCE. 

To  each  cup  of  cream,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  maple  sugar,  scraped  very 
fine;  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 

347.  PLAIN  CREAM   SAUCE. 

To  a  pint  of  cream,  add  3  table- 
spoons of  light  brown  sugar  and  Yz 
of  a  small  nutmeg  grated.  Stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved. 

348.  COLD    CREAM    SAUCE. 

Beat  together  a  cup  of  sugar  and  J^ 
cup  of  butter;  add  a  cup  of  cream. 
Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  flavor 
with  vanilla  or  lemon;  chill  thoroughly 
before  serving. 


349.     HOT   CREAM   SAUCE. 

1  cup     of     powdered     sugar     (or 
white  and   J4    maple). 
Yi  cup  butter. 
Y   cup  cream. 
Yi  cup  boiling  water. 


y2 


1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  1  tablespoon 
fruit    syrup. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together; 
add  the  cream  and  stir  into  a  half  cup 
of  boiling  water;  heat  in  double  boiler 
or  in  a  pitcher  set  into  top  of  tea 
kettle,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  and 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  a  tablespoon  of 
fruit    syrup. 

350.     FRUIT    SAUCE. 

1  cup  sugar    (maple  or  light  brown). 
Y  cup   butter. 

2  eggs    (or   one). 

1  cup  milk  (if  one  egg,  use  |4  cup 
milk). 

1  cup  berries,  or  fruit  juice,  or  the 
juice  in  which  peaches  or  apricots  have 
been    stewed,   also 

A  little  of  the  fruit  cut  fine. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together; 
add  the  beaten  eggs,  stir  well  and  add 
the  milk,  then  the  berries  or  fruit  juice. 
Pour  into  a  pitcher  which  will  set  into 
the  top  of  the  tea  kettle,  or  heat  in  a 
double  boiler;  stir  frequently  until  hot 
and  well  blended. 

35L     HARD    SAUCE. 

Hard  sauce  may  be  made  with  pow- 
dered white,  light  brown,  or  maple 
sugar.  Cream  Yt  cup  of  sugar  with  Ya 
cup  of  butter  and  beat  until  light. 
Flavor  with  Y2  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or 
lemon.  Add  the  flavoring  drop  by 
drop.  The  white  of  an  egg  beaten 
stiff,  and  stirred  into  the  sauce  just 
before  the  flavoring,  greatly  improves 
it.  Shape  into  a  neat  mound  upon  a 
small  dish,  chill  and  serve  with  hot 
puddings. 

352.     RASPBERRY    HARD     SAUCE. 

Prepare  as  for  Hard  Sauce  and  beat 
in,  very  gradually,  Y2  cup  of  raspberry 
pulp,  prepared  by  crushing  raspberries 
through  a  wire  strainer  to  eliminate 
seeds. — (Mrs.  Janet  McKenzie  Hill.) 


104 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


xxn 

Frozen  Desserts 


353. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR 
FREEZING. 


Frozen  desserts  are  among  the  easiest 
to  prepare.  When  the  mixture  has 
been  put  into  the  freezer,  and  the  stir- 
ring paddles  inserted,  cover  the  freezer, 
set  into  tub,  attach  crank,  screw  into 
place,  and  give  the  handle  a  turn  to 
see  that  everything  is  well  adjusted. 
Pound  the  ice  finely  in  a  piece  of  can- 
vas, the  finer,  the  better.  In  winter, 
snow  may  be  used  in  place  of  ice. 
Scatter  3  cups  of  ice  around  the  freezer, 
then  a  cup  of  salt,  then  3  of  ice,  then 
one  of  salt,  and  so  on,  packing  down 
with  hammer  handle  until  freezing  mix- 
ture reaches  the  hole  bored  for  drain- 
ing. (This  should  be  just  below  top 
of  inner  can.)  Keep  salt  wiped  away 
from    top    openings. 

Ices  and  creams  are  more  smooth  if 
the  handle  is  turned  slowly  and  the 
turning  reversed  occasionally.  When 
solid  particles  like  fruits,  Canton  gin- 
ger nuts,  brown  bread,  etc.,  are  pres- 
ent, the  freezer  should  be  opened  when 
it  begins  to  turn  hard,  the  stirring 
paddles  should  be  lifted,  and  the  con- 
tents thoroughly  beaten  with  a  long 
handled  spoon,  without  removing  can 
from  freezer,  to  prevent  solid  particles 
from  settling  at  the  bottom.  Then 
replace  paddles,  cover,  and  turn  until 
the  handle  turns  quite  hard.  Then 
open  freezer,  and  if  contents  are  well 
set,  remove  tne  stirring  paddles,  scrap- 
ing off  adhering  portions  with  a  knife, 
press  down  contents  of  freezer,  cover 
plug  hole  in  cover  with  paper  or  cork; 
hold  inner  can  carefully  to  prevent 
liquid  from  getting  inside.  Tilt  the 
tub  a  little  and  allow  liquid  to  drain 
out  through  the  hole  in  the  side.  Pack 
with  4  cups  of  ice  to  one  of  salt,  pro- 
ceeding as  for  freezing  mixture  until 
can  is  well  surrounded;  pack  down 
well  with  hammer  handle.  Cover  the 
ice  with  twisted  newspapers,  throw  a 
thick  canvas  over  all  and  set  aside 
for   an   hour   or   more. 

The  slower  the  freezer  is  turned,  the 
smoother  and  nicer  the  ice  or  cream 
will  be.  Turn  slowly  from  the  very 
beginning,  except  for  milk  sherbet, 
which  needs  to  have  very  quick  turn- 
ing for  a  few  moments,  at  first. 


354.     MILK   SHERBET. 

Dissolve  1  pint  of  sugar  in  a  quart 
of  milk;  also  soften  a  tablespoon  of 
crystal  gelatine  in  %  cup  of  cold 
water  and  dissolve  by  half  filling  the 
cup  with  boiling  water;  have  freezer 
ready  and  put  in  milk  and  sugar  mix- 
ture, then  the  dissolved  gelatine;  add 
the  juice  of  3  large  or  4  small  lemons, 
cover  the  freezer  and  turn  very  quickly 
so    as   not   to   curdle   the   milk. 

Milk  sherbet  may  be  varied  by  using 
2  lemons  and  a  cup  of  raspberries  or 
strawberries  mashed  with  a  little  sugar. 


355.     CANTON  SHERBET. 
t 

4  cups    water. 

1  cup    sugar. 

Ys    cup  Canton    ginger. 

y2   cup  orange   juice. 

Yi   cup  lemon    juice. 

Chop  ginger  with  coarsest  meat  cut- 
ter; add  water  and  sugar  and  boil  15 
minutes;  add  strained  fruit  juice,  cool 
and  freeze. 

This  is  especially  refreshing  and 
palatable. 


356.     LEMON    ICE. 

4  cups  water. 

2  cups  sugar. 

^  cup   lemon  juice. 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  water  and 
sugar  20  minutes;  add  lemon  juice; 
cool,  strain  and  freeze. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 


357.     RASPBERRY  ICE. 

4  cups  water. 

lYs  cups    sugar. 

2  cups   raspberry   juice. 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

Make  a  syrup  as  for  lemon  ice;  cool, 
add  raspberry  juice  prepared  by  mash- 
ing berries  and  squeezing  through 
cheese  cloth;  add  lemon  juice;  strain 
and  freeze.  Currant  ice  is  prepared 
in  the  same  manner  as  raspberry  ice, 
omitting   the   lemon   juice. 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


105 


358.     CHERRY  ICE. 

2  quarts    sour    cherries. 

1  Yi    cups    sugar. 
4  cups    water. 
Juice    of    1    lemon. 

J4  cup  raspberry  or  currant  juice. 

Pick  cherries  from  stems,  wash  and 
put  into  a  porcelain  or  aluminum  kettle; 
crush  with  potato  masher,  add  sugar 
and  water  and  boil  15  minutes.  Re- 
move from  fire,  strain  through  coarse 
strainer,  pressing  part  of  the  pulp 
through,  discarding  skins  and  stones. 
Cool  and  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon 
and  a  little  raspberry  or  currant  juice 
if  convenient,  though  the  latter  may  be 
omitted.     Freeze  slowly. 

359.  VANILLA   ICE   CREAM. 

(Philadelphia.) 

Sweeten  1  quart  of  thin  cream  with 
54  of  a  cup  of  sugar;  flavor  with  Xy^ 
tablespoons   of   vanilla   and   freeze. 

360.  VANILLA    ICE   CREAM. 

(New   York.) 

2  cups    scalded    milk. 
1  tablespoon    flour. 

1  cup    sugar. 

1  egg. 

yi  teaspoon    salt. 

1  quart   thin    cream. 

2  tablespoons   vanilla. 

Mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt;  add  egg 
slightly  beaten  and  milk  gradually. 
Cook  over  hot  water  20  minutes,  stir- 
ring constantly  at  first;  when  cool, 
add  cream  and  flavoring;  strain  and 
freeze. — (Fannie   M.    Farmer.) 

361.     CARAMEL    ICE    CREAM. 

1  quart  cream. 

2  cups    milk. 
XVi   cups  sugar. 
1  egg. 


1  tablespoon    flour. 

Yz  teaspoon  salt. 

IH   tablespoons    vanilla. 

Mix  flour,  half  of  the  sugar  and 
salt,  add  eggs  slightly  beaten  and  milk 
gradually;  cook  in  double  boiler  for 
20  minutes,  stirring  constantly  at  first. 
Should  the  custard  have  a  curdled  ap- 
pearance, it  will  disappear  in  freezing. 
Caramelize  the  second  half  of  the  sugar 
by  heating  the  sugar  without  water, 
in  a  smooth  pan  (sugar  must  be  con- 
stantly stirred  when  it  will  gradually 
turn  to  liquid  and  become  a  deep 
brown).  When  sugar  is  caramelized, 
pour  into  the  hot  custard  and  stir  until 
caramel  is  entirely  dissolved.  Cool, 
add  1  quart  of  thin  cream,  \Yi  table- 
spoons vanilla,   and  freeze. 

362.     MAPLE    ICE    CREAM. 

Maple  ice  cream  may  be  made  like 
vanilla  ice  cream,  using  maple  sugar 
instead  of  white  sugar,  or  like  caramel 
ice  cream,  omitting  vanilla  and  using 
IH  cups  of  maple  sugar,  adding  sugar 
directly  to  the  custard,  without  cara- 
melizing. 

363.     BROWN   BREAD   ICE   CREAM. 

3  pints    cream. 

1J4   cups  grated  brown  bread  crumbs. 

Yi  cup    sugar. 

Y\  teaspoon  salt. 

Soak  dried  brown  bread  crumbs 
which  have  been  grated  or  ground  in 
meat  chopper,  in  1  quart  cream;  let 
stand  15  minutes,  rub  through  a  sieve, 
add  sugar,  salt  and  remaining  cream; 
then    freeze. 

Be  sure  to  open  freezer  and  stir  con- 
tents with  spoon  when  partly  frozen. 

364.     GRAPE  NUT  ICE  CREAM. 

Proceed  _  as  for  brown  bread  ice 
cream,  using  Grape  Nuts  instead  of 
brown  bread  crumbs. 


xxni 

Cake  and  Gingfcrbread 


Good  materials  and  care  are  particu- 
larly  necessary    in    cake   baking. 

Measure  and  assemble  in  good  order 
upon  the  cake  board  or  table  all  mate- 
rials   before    beginning     to     mix.      An 


earthen  bowl  of  good  size  and  a  strong 
wire  whisk  or  a  perforated  spoon  are 
favorite  utensils.  There  should  be  two 
measuring  cups,  one  for  dry  and  one 
for   moist   or   liquid   ingredients. 


106 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


In  making  cakes  without  butter,  such 
as  sponge  cakes,  the  egg  yolks  are 
usually  beaten  until  thick,  then  sugar 
is  gradually  beaten  in  and  the  flour 
is  added   last. 

In  cakes  with  butter,  the  butter  is 
first  creamed  with  the  sugar.  Then  the 
beaten  eggs  are  added,  or  yolks  only, 
if  called  for;  baking  powder  is  sifted 
with  the  flour  and  if  separate  whites 
are  to  be  added,  they  are  folded  in 
just  before  the  flour  and  the  latter  is 
then  added  with  as  few  strokes  as  pos- 
sible. 

Light  cake  means  long  and  vigor- 
ous beating.  Mix  well  as  each  ingre- 
dient is  added.  Fruit  is  usually  put  in 
last. 

Cake  pans  should  always  be  care- 
fully washed  and  dried  just  before 
using,  then  greased  with  butter  and, 
for  cakes  containing  butter,  the  pans 
may  be  lined  with  waxed  paper  or  light 
weight  writing  paper,  the  latter  to  be 
again  slightly  greased.  A  smooth  sur- 
face is  produced  by  buttering  the  tin, 
then  dredge  with  flour  and  knock  out 
all  except  that  which  adheres  to  the 
butter. 

In  filling  the  pan,  it  should  be  about 
Ys  full;  make  a  depression  in  the  cen- 
ter with  back  of  spoon;  this  allows 
for  rising  and  usually  gives  a  good  flat 
top. 

Cakes  should  be  baked  in  a  moder- 
ately hot  oven  and  should  be  carefully 
watched;  open  and  close  the  door  soft- 
ly at  any  time  after  the  cake  has  been 
in  10  or  15  minutes.  After  the  cake 
is  well  risen,  it  can  be  turned  if  heat 
is  not  equal.  If  a  cake  cracks  open 
upon  the  top,  it  is  probable  that  a 
little  less  flour  could  be  used.  Flour 
varies  and  when  it  is  found  that  the 
flour  that  is  being  used  causes  cakes 
to  crack  open,  1  or  2  tablespoons  less 
than  recipe  calls  for  should  be  used, 
except  in  Summer.  Summer  heat  tends 
to  make  cakes  more  liquid,  which  usu- 
ally calls  for  the  full  amount  of  flour — 
possibly   a  trifle   more. 

Sponge  cakes  when  taken  from  the 
oven  may  be  cooled  in  the  pan  if  de- 
sired. Van  Deusen  tins  are  best  and 
being  provided  with  legs  at  the  top 
may  be  inverted  a  few  moments,  which 
allows  circulation  of  air;  cake  may 
then  be  removed  from  the  tin  (which 
should  never  be  greased)  by  running 
a  knife  carefully  around  ed^es  and 
under  the  bottom,  through  slits  pro- 
vided for  the  purpose   in  these   tins. 


365.  EGOLESS    CAKE. 

lYz   cups   sugar. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

3  even   cups   of  sifted  flour. 

y2  cup    butter. 

1  teaspoon    soda. 

J^  teaspoon    cinnamon. 

Yz   teaspoon    grated    nutmeg. 

1  cup  raisins  floured   and  chopped. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  dissolve 
soda  in  sour  milk;  add  to  mixture,  also 
spices  and  flour,  then  the  fruit. 

366.  ONE   EGG  CAKE. 

1  cup    butter. 
IH  cups   sugar. 
3  cups   flour. 
1  cup    sweet    milk. 

1  egg. 

2  teaspoons   baking   powder. 

1  cup    chopped    raisins. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  beaten 
egg,  milk  and  flour  sifted  with  baking 
powder;   then  the   fruit. 

367.     HOT  MILK  SPONGE  CAKE. 

2  eggs. 

Pinch   of   salt. 
1  cup    sugar. 

1  heaping    cup    flour. 

lYt  teaspoons    baking   powder. 

Yi  cup    boiling    hot    milk. 

1  tablespoon     lemon    juice. 

Beat  eggs  very  light;  add  salt,  sifted 
sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder;  mix 
well,   then   add   the   boiling   hot   milk. 

368.     PLAIN   SPONGE   CAKE. 

Yolks    of    6    eggs. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoon    lemon   juice. 

Grated   rind   of   half   a   lemon. 

Whites    of    6    eggs. 

1  cup   flour. 

J4  teaspoon   salt. 

Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon 
colored;  add  sugar  gradually,  beat  with 
Dover  egg  beater.  Add  lemon  juice, 
grated  rind  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  When  whites  are  partially  mixed 
with  yolks,  remove  beater  and  care- 
fully cut  and  fold  in  flour  mixed  and 
sifted  with  salt.  Bake  1  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven  in  an  Angel  Cake  pan. 
When  failures  are  made  in  Sunshine 
and  Angel  Cake,  they  are  usually 
traced  to  baking  in  too  slow  an  oven 
and  removing  from  oven  before  thor- 
oughly cooked. 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


107 


369.     FOUR-EGG    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar. 

3  tablespoons    cold    water. 

\l/2   tablespoons    cornstarch. 

Flour. 

lJ/2  teaspoons    baking   powder. 

yi  teaspoon    salt. 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  lemon   extract. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and 
lemon  colored;  add  sugar  gradually  and 
beat  2  minutes,  then  add  water.  Put 
cornstarch  in  a  cup  and  fill  cup  with 
flour.  Mix  and  sift  cornstarch  and 
flour  with  baking  powder  and  salt,  and 
add  to  first  mixture.  When  thoroughly- 
mixed,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff,  and  flavoring.  Bake  30  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 


370.     LADY    FINGERS. 

Whites    of    3    eggs. 

yi   cup    powdered    sugar. 

Yolks   of   2    eggs. 

Yi   cup   flour. 

Yi   teaspoon   salt. 

Y^  teaspoon   vanilla. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  dry;  add 
sugar  gradually  and  continue  beating; 
then  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until 
thick  and  lemon  colored,  and  continue 
beating.  Cut  and  fold  in  flour  mixed 
and  sifted  with  salt.  Shape  4J^  inches 
long  and  1  inch  wide  on  a  tin  sheet, 
covered  with  unbuttered  paper,  using 
a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  bake  8  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Remove  from 
paper  with  a  knife. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 


371.     BRIDE'S    CAKE. 

Whites    of    12    eggs. 

3  cups    sugar. 
Small   cup   butter. 

1  cup    of    sweet    milk. 

4  small    cups    flour. 
Yt   cup    cornstarch. 

2  teaspoons    baking    powder. 
1  tablespoon   lemon  juice. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk, 
cornstarch  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  a  little  of  the  milk,  lemon,  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  flour  sifted 
with  baking  powder. 

The    addition     of    a    cup    of    citron 


sliced  thin  and  cut  small,  then  dredged 
in  flour,  makes  a  handsome  Citron 
Cake. 

372.     GRANDMOTHER'S    WHITE 
CAKE. 

Whites    of   4    eggs. 

1  cup    sugar. 
Yi  cup     butter. 

Yi   cup     sweet    milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoon   cream   of   tartar. 

Yi   teaspoon    soda. 

1  teaspoon    lemon    extract. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk 
with  soda  dissolved  in  it,  flour  sifted 
with  cream  of  tartar,  flavoring,  then 
fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
This  is  a  very  nice  small  cake. 

27Z.     WHITE    CAKE. 

Whites    of   6    eggs. 
1  cup   sugar. 
Yz   cup   butter. 
Yi   cup   sweet   milk. 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Y2   teaspoon   soda. 

2  cups  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  soda 
dissolved  in  milk,  sift  cream  of  tartar 
with  flour  and  add,  then  i'^  in  whites 
of  eggs  beaten   stiff. 

374.     PLAIN   CAKE. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup    sugar. 

Y2   cup    sweet    milk. 
Y2   cup    butter. 

2  cups    flour. 

Y2  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  cream    of   tartar. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten 
eggs,  soda  dissolved  in  milk  and  cream 
of  tartar  sifted  in  the  flour. 

375.     ORANGE    CAKE. 

2  cups    sugar. 
Y2  cup    butter. 

ZY2   cups   sifted   flour. 
Yi  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  eggs   beaten   separately. 

3  teaspoons    baking    powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten 
yolks,  the  milk,  stiffly  beaten  whites, 
then  fold  in  flour  sifted  with  baking 
powder;    bake    in    3    shallow    pans    and 


108 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


arrange  as  a  layer  cake  with  filling  as 
follows: 

Filling — The  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  2  oranges,  2  tablespoons  cold  water, 
2  cups  powdered  sugar.  Heat  in  double 
boiler  and  when  scalding  hot,  stir  in 
yolks  of  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  just 
before  taking  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the 
white  of  one  egg  slightly  beaten;  when 
cold,  spread  between  the  layers.  The 
white  of  second  egg  may  be  used  for 
a  white  frosting  if  desired.  (See 
Frostings.) 

An  orange  may  be  peeled,  divided 
into  sections  and  each  section  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise  with  a  sharp  knife; 
then  lay  these  upon  each  layer,  if  de- 
sired, evenly  spread  with  the  orange 
filling. 


376.     SPICE   CAKE. 

1  egg. 

1  cup   sugar. 

2  tablespoons    molasses. 
Yi  cup  butter.  _ 

1  cup   sour   milk. 
1  teaspoon  soda. 
2?^    cups   flour. 
All  spices  as  desired. 

1  cup    raisins. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten 
egg,  molasses,  soda  dissolved  in  sour 
milk,  spices,  flour  and  raisins. 

377.     NUT  CAKE. 

154  cups  sugar. 

Vi  cup  butter. 

54  cup    sweet   milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

Yi  teaspoon    cream   of  tartar. 

Y2  teaspoon    vanilla. 

1   cup    hickory   nuts. 

Whites  of  4   eggs. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk, 
cream  of  tartar  sifted  with  the  flour, 
flavoring,  nuts,  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff. 

Frost  with_  a  plain  icing  or  orna- 
mental frosting  and  decorate  with 
halves  and  fourths  of  English  walnuts. 

378.     MAPLE   CAKE. 

Break  2  eggs  into  a  cup  and  fill 
with  sweet  cream;  pour  off  cream  and 
beat  the  eggs;  add  1  cup  maple  sugar, 
then  the  cream,  then  1^  cups  flour 
sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


379.     CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Y2  cup  butter. 

1  cup   sugar. 

2  small  eggs. 
Y2  cup  milk. 
\Y2   cups    flour. 

2Y2  teaspoons    baking    powder. 

2  ounces    chocolate    melted. 

1  teaspoon    vanilla. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradu- 
ally, yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  then 
the  whites  beaten  until  stiff.  Add  milk, 
flour  sifted  with  baking  powder  and 
beat  thoroughly.  Then  add  melted 
chocolate  and  vanilla;  bake  40  minutes 
in   a   shallov/   cake  pan. 


380.     AUNT  MARY'S  FRUIT  CAKE. 

\Yi   cups    light    brown    sugar. 

Yz  cup   butter. 

2  eggs. 

Y2  cup  sour  milk. 

Scant  2Y2   cups  flour. 

Yi  cup   raisins. 

Yz  teaspoon  soda. 

2  tablespoons  finely  cut  citron  or  Ya 
cup  chopped  nuts  if  desired. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten 
eggs,  soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk,  flour, 
then  raisins;  also  if  used,  the  citron 
or   the    nuts. 


381.     FRUIT   CAKE. 

1  pound    medium    light   brown    sugar. 

54  pound   butter. 

1  pound   flour. 

8  eggs. 

\Y%  cups   rich   sour  cream. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 
\Y%   cups   molasses. 

2  pounds   raisins, 

1  pound    currants. 
^  pound    citron. 
Y2  pound   dates. 
Y2  pound   figs. 

Yir   pound  preserved  Canton  ginger. 

Ya   pound   almond   meats. 

Ya  pound    candied    orange    peel. 

2  tablespoons  mace. 

2  tablespoons  ground  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoon   ground  cloves. 

1  wineglass   brandy. 

Ys  oi  a  nutmeg. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well 
beaten  eggs,  molasses,  soda  dissolved 
in  sour  cream,  sifted  flour,  spices,  fruit 
and  brandy.  A  strong  arm  is  required 
for   this   cake   but   the   results   of   thor- 


THE    MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


109 


ough  mixing  and  stirring  and  careful 
baking  will  more  than  repay  the  effort. 
Bake  from  2^  to  4  hours  (according 
to  size  of  loaves)  in  a  moderate  oven. 
To  preserve  moisture,  cover  with  brown 
paper  when  half  done,  but  bake  thor- 
oughly. This  makes  several  loaves  of 
ideal  fruit  cake.  To  keep  perfectly 
moist  for  a  year  or  more,  wrap  each 
loaf  in  cheese  cloth,  then  in  a  perfectly 
fresh  napkin  and  put  into  a  tin  cake 
box  in  which  is  kept  standing  a  tum- 
bler containing  a  wineglass  of  whiskey. 
The  latter  will  in  time  evaporate  and 
should  be  replenished. 


382.     LAYER  CAKE. 

1  egg. 

1  cup   sugar. 
%   cup    butter. 
^  cup  milk. 
1^  cups    flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Stir  the  sugar,  egg  and  softened 
butter  well  together,  add  the  milk,  then 
the  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder. 
Beat  until  smooth  and  creamy.  Bake 
in  2  layer  cake  pans.  For  fillings, 
icings,   etc.,   see   Chapter   XXIV. 


383.     JELLY  ROLL. 


3  eggs. 

1   cup   sugar. 

Yz   teaspoon  milk. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 


J4  teaspoon   salt. 

1  cup   flour. 

1  tablespoon   melted   butter. 

Beat  egg  until  light,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually, milk,  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with 
baking  powder  and  salt,  then  the  but- 
ter. Line  the  bottom  of  a  dripping 
pan  with  paper,  butter  paper  and  sides 
of  pan.  Cover  bottom  of  pan  with 
mixture  and  spread  evenly.  Bake  12 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Take 
from  oven  and  turn  upon  a  paper 
sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar.  Quickly 
remove  paper  from  bottom  of  cake,  cut 
off  a  thin  strip  from  sides  and  ends  of 
cake.  Spread  with  jelly  or  jam  which 
has  been  beaten  to  a  consistency  which 
will  spread  easily  and  roll.  After  cake 
has  been  rolled,  roll  paper  around  it 
that  it  may  better  keep  its  shape.  The 
work  must  be  done  quickly  or  cake  will 
crack  in  rolling. —  (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 


384.     SOFT  GINGER   BREAD. 

1  cup   New  Orleans  molasses. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  butter    (softened). 

1   cup    sour   milk. 

1  teaspoon    baking    soda. 

1  teaspoon    cinnamon. 

2  teaspoons   ginger. 
4  scant  cups  flour. 

Stir  well  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
This  makes  one  good  loaf. 


XXIV 


Ffostings  and  Fillings 


Spread  frostings  with 
dipped  frequently  into  i 
water. 


silver  knife 
bowl    of    hot 


385.    VANILLA   ICING. 

White   of   1    egg. 

1  tablespoon   water. 

Powdered  sugar  to  spread. 

Do  not  beat  the  egg,  but  stir  in 
sifted  powdered  sugar  until  thick 
enough  to  spread  (this  may  be  known 
by  taking  up  a  little  of  mixture  on  a 
spoon  and  cutting  with  a  silver  knife; 
if  it  cuts  clean  and  remains  apart,  it 
is  stiff  enough).  Flavor  with  Yz  tea- 
spoon vanilla. 


386.     LEMON   ICING. 

Prepare  as  for  No.  385  and  flavor 
with  Y2  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  in- 
stead of  vanilla. 

387.     ORANGE    ICING. 

_  Take  the  juice  and  grated  yellow 
rind  of  1  good,  heavy  orange;  thicken 
with   powdered   sugar   and   spread. 

388.     RAISIN  FROSTING. 

Prepare  as  for  No.  385,  and  add  Y2 
cup  of  chopped  raisins  which  have  been 
rubbed  with  a  little  flour  to  keep  them 
from  lumping. 


no 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


389.     NUT   FROSTING. 

Prepare  as  for  No.  385  and  add  J^ 
cup  chopped  pecans,  English  walnuts, 
almonds  or  any  nuts  desired. 

390.     COCOANUT  FROSTING. 

Prepare  as  for  No.  385  or  No.  393 
and  sprinkle  chopped  or  dessicated 
cocoanut  upon  the  top. 

391.     WHITE    MOUNTAIN    CREAM. 

1  cup  sugar. 

^   cup   boiling  water. 

White   of    1    egg. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  5^  tablespoon 
lemon  juice. 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  sauce  pan 
and  stir  to  prevent  sugar  from  ad- 
hering to  pan;  heat  gradually  to  boil- 
ing without  stirring  until  syrup  will 
thread  when  dropped  from  tip  of  the 
spoon  or  tines  of  silver  fork.  Pour 
syrup  gradually  on  beaten  white  of 
egg,  beating  mixture  constantly  and 
continue  beating  until  of  right  con- 
sistency to  spread;  then  add  flavoring 
and  pour  over  cake,  spreading  evenly 
with  back  of  spoon.  Crease  as 
soon  as  firm.  If  not  beaten  long 
enough,  frosting  will  run;  if  beaten 
too  long,  it  will  not  be  smooth.  Frost- 
ing beaten  too  long  may  be  improved 
by  adding  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice 
or  boiling  water.  This  frosting  is  soft 
inside  and  has  a  glossy  surface.  If 
frosting  is  to  be  ornamented  with  nuts 
or  candied  cherries,  place  them  on 
frosting  as  soon  as  spread. — (Fannie 
M.    Farmer.) 

392.     BOILED  FROSTING. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Yi   cup    water. 

Whites    of    2    eggs. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Yz  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Make  same  as  White  Mountain 
Cream.  This  frosting  on  account  of 
the  larger  quantity  of  egg,  does  not 
stiffen  as  "  quickly  as  White  Mountain 
Cream,  therefore  is  more  successfully 
made  by  the  inexperienced. — (Fannie 
M.   Farmer.) 

393.     ORNAMENTAL  FROSTING. 

Whites  of  3   eggs. 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

Sifted   powdered   sugar    to    spread. 


Put  whites  of  eggs  in  a  large  bowl, 
add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  beat 
three  minutes  with  Van  Deusen  egg 
beater.  Repeat  until  1  Y-z  cups  of  sugar 
are  used;  add  lemon  juice  gradually  as 
mixture  thickens.  Continue  adding 
sugar  by  spoonfuls  and  beat  until  frost- 
ing is  stiff  enough  to  spread.  (See 
test  in  No.  385.)  Spread  cake  thinly 
with  frosting;  when  this  has  hardened, 
put  on  a  thicker  layer,  having  mixture 
somewhat  stiffer  than  first  coating,  and 
then  crease  for  cutting.  This  frosting 
is  used  for  decorative  work  and  if  it 
is  to  be  shaped  into  fancy  designs,  add 
to  remaining  frosting  enough  more 
sugar  to  make  it  keep  its  shape  after 
being  forced  through  pastry  bag  and 
tube. 

This  frosts  a  very  large  cake.  One- 
third  to  one-half  the  quantity  will  frost 
a   small   loaf. 

Use  this  frosting  for  making  crosses 
upon  hot  cross  buns. 


394.    MAPLE  FROSTING. 

Boil  1  cup  of  maple  syrup  or  1  cup 
of  maple  sugar  to  which  J4  cup  of 
boiling  water  has  been  added,  until  a 
heavy  thread  forms  when  syrup  is 
dipped^  up  and  dropped  from  spoon,  or 
until  it  becomes  crisp  when  dropping 
into  cold  water.  When  done  pour 
slowly  upon  stiffly  beaten  white  of  1 
egg  and  spread  at  once. 


395.     VANILLA  FILLING. 

\Yi.   cups  powdered   sugar. 

Yi  cup  cream  to  spread  (rich  thick 
cream  is  best). 

Yi  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Add  sugar  to  cream  gradually,  and 
flavor.  If  not  thick  enough  to  spread, 
and  stay  in  place,  stir  in  a  little  more 
sugar. 


396.     RAISIN  FILLING. 

Prepare   as    for    No.    395,    adding    Y2 
cup  of  chopped  raisins. 


Z^l.     NUT    FILLING. 

Prepare  as  for  No.  395,  adding  J4 
cup  chopped  nuts.  Pecans  or  English 
walnuts   are   best. 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


Ill 


398.     CHOCOLATE    FILLING. 

Prepare  as  for  No.    395,   and  add   J^ 
ounce  of  melted  bitter  chocolate. 

399.     MAPLE  CREAM  FILLING. 

1  cup  maple  syrup  or  sugar. 
Yz   cup    rich    cream. 
Boil     together     until     when     dropped 
into  very  cold  water  it  forms  a  creamy 


ball.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
tintil  thick  enough  to  spread  and  keep 
its  place.  Spread  between  layers  and 
upon  top  of  layer  cake. 

400.     NUT   MAPLE   FILLING. 

Prepare  as  for  No.  395,  adding  J/$ 
cup  of  chopped  English  walnut  or  but- 
ter  nut  meats. 


XXV 


Q)okies  and  Fancy  Cakes 


Sheets  of  tin,  cut  to  slide  into  oven 
and  rest  upon  the  ridges  made  for 
grates,  will  be  found  a  great  conven- 
ience,  particularly   for   cookies. 

Two  or  three  sheets  are  desirable, 
two  being  in  the  oven  while  a  third 
is  being  filled.  Any  tinner  can  cut 
them  to  the  size  desired.  The  absence 
of  sides  of  pan  greatly  facilitates  slip- 
ping the  cookies  off  without  breaking. 
A  dripping  pan  turned  upside  down 
will   do. 

401.     CREAM  COOKIES. 

1  egg. 

1  cup    white    sugar. 

1   cup    sour    cream. 

1  level    teaspoon    soda. 

A   pinch    of    salt. 

1  teaspoon    vanilla. 

Flour  to  mix  as  soft  as  can  be 
handled. 

Beat  the  egg,  add  sugar,  soda  dis- 
solved in  sour  cream,  vanilla  and  flour, 
adding  just  enough  of  the  latter  to  per- 
mit handling.  Mix  with  chilled  ingre- 
dients and  keep  all  very  cool  while 
mixing.  The  softer  these  cookies  are 
handled,  the  richer  and  nicer  they  will 
be.  Pat  and  roll,  but  do  not  knead. 
Shape  with  cookie  cutters,  sprinkle  tops 
with  granulated  sugar  and  if  desired, 
lay  a  blanched  almond  upon  the  top 
of   each. 

402.     GINGER    CRISP. 

1  cup  butter. 

2y2  cups    sugar. 

J^  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoon    soda. 

1  tablespoon  ginger. 

Flour  to  mix  stiff   (about  7  cups). 


Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  beaten 
eggs,  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  and  gin- 
ger. Add  as  much  flour  as  can  be 
stirred  in  (about  7  cups,  or  enough  to 
make  very   stiff). 

Keep  mixing  bowl  in  a  cool  place. 
Cut  off  a  piece  about  the  size  of  a 
large  orange.  Return  remainder  to 
bowl,  cover  and  set  in  a  cool  place; 
place  the  portion  cut  off  upon  a  greased 
tin  sheet  and  roll  out  about  y%  inch 
thick;  roll  a  creased  rolling  pin  lightly 
over  it  if  convenient;  if  not,  bake  in  a 
plain  sheet;  sprinkle  lightly  with 
sugar  before  putting  into  the  oven; 
watch  carefully  and  bake  12  or  15  min- 
utes, or  until  very  slightly  browned. 
If  edges  brown  before  center,  remove 
from  the  oven,  cut  2  inch  strips  from 
the  four  sides,  cut  these  into  3  inch 
lengths  and  stand  on  edge  around  sides 
of  a  pan  to  cool;  return  remainder  of 
sheet  to  the  oven  until  done;  remove, 
cut  into  strips  and  stand  on  edge  in 
pan.  Cut  another  portion  from  the 
dough,  roll,  crease,  sugar  and  bake  as 
above,   and  so  on. 

This  is  very  dainty  and  keeps  a  long 
time. 

403.     SOFT    MOLASSES    COOKIES. 

1  cup  molasses. 
1^  teaspoons    soda, 

1  cup   sour   milk. 

Yz  cup    butter    melted. 

2  teaspoons    ginger. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 
Flour. 

Add  soda  to  molasses  and  beat  thor- 
oughly. Add  milk,  shortening,  ginger, 
salt  and  flour.  Enough  flour  must  be 
used  to  make  mixture  of  right  con- 
sistency   to    drop    easily     from     spoon. 


112 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


Allow  to  stand  several  hours  in  a  cold 
place,    until    thoroughly   chilled. 

Toss  half  of  the  mixture  at  a  time 
upon  slightly  floured  board,  roll  lightly 
to  yi  inch  thickness.  Shape  with  a 
round  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour; 
bake  on  a  buttered  tin  sheet. — (Fannie 
M.  Farmer.) 

404.     CENTENNIAL    CAKES. 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar. 
2  eggs. 

Yi  cup  melted  butter  (or  half  butter 
and  half  lard). 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  (or  half  raisins 
and  half  currants). 

2  tablespoons    sweet   milk. 

1  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  soda  and 
cinnamon. 

H   teaspoon   ground  clove. 

A    little    nutmeg. 

Flour  to  make  a  mixture  as  soft  as 
can  be  handled  for  rolling. 

Cover  and  set  aside  in  mixing  bowl 
until  thoroughly  chilled.  Roll  part  of 
the  mixture  at  a  time;  shape  with 
cookie  cutters  and  bake  upon  buttered 
tin  sheets.  These  cakes  are  delicious 
and   will  keep    for  weeks. 

405.     GINGER   SNAPS. 

1  cup  molasses. 

Yz   cup   butter. 

3J4  cups  flour. 

y2  teaspoon    soda. 

1  tablespoon    ginger. 

lYz  teaspoons   salt. 

Heat  molasses  to  boiling  point  and 
pour  over  butter.  Add  dry  ingredients 
mixed  and  sifted.     Chill  thoroughly. 

Toss  J4  of  the  mixture  on  a  floured 
board  and  roll  as  thinly  as  possible; 
shape  with  a  small  round  cutter  first 
dipped  in  flour.  Place  close  together 
on  a  buttered  tin  sheet  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Gather  up  the  trim- 
mings and  roll  with  another  portion  of 
dough.  During  rolling,  the  bowl  con- 
taining mixture  must  be  kept  in  a  cool 
place. — (Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

406.     FRUIT    PINWHEELS. 

1   pint  flour. 

1  tablespoon  sugar. 
Yz   teaspoon   salt. 

2  teaspoons    baking   powder. 

2  rounding  tablespoons  butter. 
1  cup   of   miik    (scant). 


1  tablespoon  butter. 
54  cup    sugar. 

1  cup   currants. 
J4  of   a  nutmeg. 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking 
powder  together;  into  this  rub  the  but- 
ter, using  finger  tips;  wet  with  the 
milk  added  gradually.  Sprinkle  board 
with  flour  and  roll  dough  in  oblong 
shape  about  8  by  15  inches  and  Yt 
inch  thick.  On  this,  spread  the  table- 
spoon of  soft  butter,  54  cup  granu- 
lated sugar  and  a  cup  of  currants  which 
have  been  carefully  washed  and  dried 
in  a  napkin.  Grate  over  the  nutmeg 
and  roll  like  Jelly  Roll  with  the  long 
edge  for  the  length.  With  a  floured 
knife,  cut  off  slices  about  5^  of  an 
inch  thick,  lay  on  a  well  buttered  tin 
sheet  or  dripping  pan,  with  space  be- 
tween. Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  12 
minutes. 

407.     NUT   DROPS. 

Yz  cup  butter. 

54  cup  light  brown  sugar. 

H  cup  molasses. 

2  eggs. 

154  cups   flour. 

1J4  cups  pecan   meats. 

Y2  cup  preserved  Canton  ginger  cut 
into  J^   inch  cubes. 

Nut   meats   for   top. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  mo- 
lasses, beaten  egg,  then  flour.  Beat 
well,  add  nuts,  coarsely  chopped.  Deco- 
rate the  top  of  each  cake  with  a  half 
pecan  meat,  and  bake  in  buttered  gem 
pans  (cast  iron  are  best)  until  done 
and  handsomely  browned. 

408.     CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

Ya-  pound  German  sweet  chocolate, 
grated. 

1  pound  medium  light  brown  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

3  teaspoons  cinnamon,  ground. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
2Y2  cups  flour. 

Beat  eggs,  stir  in  sugar,  melted  but- 
ter, chocolate  and  cinnamon;  then  add 
the  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder. 
The  batter  should  be  as  stiff  as  can  be 
stirred;  if  it  is  not,  add  a  trifle  more 
flour.  Drop  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  the 
batter  upon  a  well  buttered  tin  sheet  or 
an  inverted  dripping  pan.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  crackled,  glazed 
and  slightly  browned. 


THE   MONARCH    COOK    BOOK. 


113 


XXVI 
Bread 


Select  a  standard  brand  of  flour  and 
always  use  the  same,  to  insure  uniform 
results. 

Set  bread  to  rise  in  a  very  large  bowl 
or  deep  pan,  in  a  warm  room,  but  not 
upon  the  stove  except  perhaps  in  Win- 
ter, when  the  bowl  might  be  set  upon 
the  top  of  the  warming  oven;  do  not 
put  bread  to  rise  where  there  is  heat 
enough  to  cook  it.  Cover  the  bowl 
with  a  clean  bread  cloth,  then  with  a 
large  tin  cover  to  keep  out  drafts.  Be 
careful  not  to  set  the  bread  pan 
where  a  draft  can  strike  it  and  if  the 
room  is  cool,  a  clean  blanket  should 
be  wrapped  around  and  over  the  dish; 
it  is  well  to  keep  part  of  a  clean  blan- 
ket  for  this   purpose. 

Bread  is  usually  considered  a  diffi- 
cult thing  to  make,  but  it  is  not.  Home 
made  bread  is  far  more  wholesome 
than  the  baker's  product  and  good 
bread  of  her  own  make  should  be  a 
great  satisfaction  to  the  housewife. 
There  will  be  no  trouble  about  bread 
making  if  a  good  rule  be  carefully  fol- 
lowed. 

Caution:  Never  dissolve  yeast  in 
hot  water  or  put  it  into  a  hot  mixture 
— always  tepid.  Heat  cooks  and  kills 
the  yeast  plant  which  will  not,  then, 
expand    or    cause    mixture    to    rise. 

Knead  thoroughly — and  remember 
this  is  the  best  of  exercises  for  de- 
veloping  a   beautiful   wrist   and   arm. 

409.     FAVORITE  BREAD. 

1  cup  scalded  milk. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

2  tablespoons  shortening. 
1  even  tablespoon  sugar. 
1J4  teaspoons  salt. 

1  yeast  cake. 

%   cup  lukewarm  water. 

6  cups  flour. 

Mix  bread  at  night.  Into  the  mixing 
bowl  put  shortening,  sugar  and  salt 
(2  tablespoons  butter;  or  1  tablespoon 
butter  and  one  of  lard;  or  one  of 
butter  and  one  of  clarified  beef  drip- 
pings may  be  used).  Upon  this  pour 
the  scalded  milk  and  boiling  water  and 
allow  to  stand  until  lukewarm.  Mean- 
while dissolve  yeast  cake  in  J4  cup 
of   lukewarm  water    (never   hot  water). 


When  mixture  in  bowl  is  lukewarm, 
stir  in  2  cups  of  sifted  flour,  add  the 
dissolved  yeast;  then  stir  in  3  more 
cups  sifted  flour.  Set  bread  to  rise 
over  night,  following  directions  given 
above. 

In  the  morning  before  breakfast, 
cut  bread  down  with  a  knife,  stir  in 
another  cup  of  sifted  flour — when  it 
should  be  stiff  enough  to  handle;  if 
not,  add  a  trifle  more  flour.  Different 
lots  of  flour  will  be  found  to  vary  in 
moisture,  and  the  amount  of  flour 
should  be  regulated  to  meet  require- 
ments. Scatter  flour  upon  the  bread 
board,  and  knead  dough  for  10  minutes 
at  least;  it  should  not  stick  to  the 
hands  at  the  end  of  this  time.  If  it 
does,  knead  a  little  longer,  scattering 
on  as  little  flour  as  needed.  Scatter  a 
little  flour  in  bread  bowl,  return  dough 
to  the  dish,  cover  as  before  and  set 
aside  to  rise  (about  2  hours).  When 
doubled  in  bulk  cut  down  again,  tip 
out  upon  bread  board,  knead  a  little, 
cut  into  loaves,  knead  each  one  well 
and  lay  into  a  buttered  bread  tin.  This 
amount  makes  two  medium  sized  loaves 
or  one  large  loaf  and  a  tin  of  biscuit. 
Double  this  quantity  makes  three  good 
loaves  and  a  tin  of  biscuit. 

In  shaping  loaves,  try  to  keep  them 
free  from  creases;  dough  should  fill 
the  pan  about  one-third.  Have  ready 
a  little  melted  butter  and  brush  over 
tops  and  sides  of  loaves;  prick  each 
loaf  several  times  in  uniform  design 
with  a  fork.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise  slowly;  about  30  to  45  minutes. 
When  risen  a  little  more  than  twice 
their  size,  set  into  a  moderate  oven. 
Bread  should  not  bake  too  quickly  at 
first,  that  it  may  rise  sufficiently.  When 
bread  has  been  in  15  minutes,  heat 
should  be  increased.  Bake  45  or  SO 
minutes.  When  done,  bread  should  tip 
out  easily,  having  shrunk  slightly  from 
sides  of  pan. 

After  removing  from  oven,  spread  a 
clean  bread  cloth  upon  the  table,  tip 
out  the  loaves,  set  a  bread  tin  upside 
down  upon  the  cloth,  and  tip  loaves 
one  against  each  side  of  the  tin,  the 
loaves  resting  upon  edge  on  the  table. 
This  permits  air  to  circulate  all 
around     them,     giving     a     crisp     crust. 


114 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


When  cool,  set  into  bread  box  which 
has  been  freshly  washed,  aired  and 
lined  with  a  piece  of  fresh  paper,  pre- 
ferably waxed  or  paraffine  paper. 

410.      ONCE-RAISED   BREAD. 

Make  bread  as  above,  but  add  the 
6  cups  of  flour  when  stirring  up  the 
bread  and  knead  for  10  minutes  at  the 
time  of  mixing.  Then  raise  until  fully 
doubled  in  bulk,  cut  down,  knead  for 
five  minutes,  put  into  tins,  raise  and 
bake.  Bread  made  in  this  way  can  be 
mixed  either  at  night  and  baked  di- 
rectly after  breakfast,  or  it  can  be 
mixed  early  in  the  morning  and  baked 
before  lunch  time. 

411.     WATER  BREAD. 

1  tablespoon   sugar. 

2  cups   boiling   water. 

14   yeast  cake  or   Ya   cup  liquid  yeast. 

1   teaspoon   salt. 

6  cups  flour. 

Dissolve  sugar  in  boiling  water  and 
allow  to  cool  until  lukewarm.  Add 
yeast  (dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm 
water,  if  compressed  yeast  be  used). 
Stir  in  4  to  5  cups  flour.  Stir  well 
for  5  minutes,  cover  bread  bowl,  wrap 
in  a  blanket  if  room  is  cold,  and  allow 
to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  balance  of  flour  and  a  little  more 
if  necessary,  also  the  salt.  Knead  well 
for  IS  or  20  minutes,  cover  and  allow 
to  rise  again.  When  doubled  in  bulk 
shape  into  loaves  as  directed  for  Fa- 
vorite Bread.  Brush  over  with  butter, 
prick,  allow  to  rise  in  the  tins  and 
bake. 


412. 


WATER   BREAD   WITH 
SHORTENING. 


1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1^   teaspoons  salt. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 

1  tablespoon  lard  or  clarified  beef 
drippings. 

1  pint  boiling  water. 

J^  of  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  3 
tablespoons    lukewarm    water. 

6  cups  flour   (sifted). 

Pour  boiling  water  upon  shortening, 
sugar  and  salt  in  mixing  bowl;  allow 
to  cool  until  lukewarm,  then  add  yeast 
which  has  been  dissolved  in  3  table- 
spoons lukewarm  water.  Add  6  cups 
of    sifted   flour,    stir   thoroughly    for    10 


minutes  and  when  well  mixed,  scatter 
a  little  flour  on  bread  board,  tip  out 
and  knead  for  10  minutes,  or  until 
bread  does  not  stick  and  bubbles  break 
in  the  dough.  Bread  when  thoroughly 
kneaded  should  be  elastic  and  tender. 
Scatter  a  little  flour  in  bread  bowl, 
cover  with  bread  cloth  and  a  tin  kettle 
cover,  and  allow  to  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  before  breakfast,  knead 
bread  again  for  10  minutes.  Allow  to 
rise  a  second  time  if  desired,  or  bread 
may  be  at  once  shaped  into  loaves  and 
put  into  tins.  When  shaped  into  loaves, 
brush  over  with  butter,  prick  and  when 
doubled  in  bulk,  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven,  increasing  the  heat  when  half 
done. 

413.     WHOLE  WHEAT   BREAD. 

2  cups  warm  water. 

1  teaspoon  sugar. 

4  even  cups  whole  wheat  flour. 

2^   cups  white  flour  (even  measure). 

Yz  compressed  yeast  cake  dissolved 
in  a  little  tepid  water. 

Pour  warm  water  into  bread  bowl, 
add  yeast  and  sugar,  beat  in  the  white 
flour,  cover  well,  wrapping  in  a  blanket 
if  room  is  cool  and  allow  to  rise  until 
foamy.  Then  stir  well,  add  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  whole  wheat  flour,  which 
has  been  slightly  warmed  in  the  oven. 
The  dough  should  be  very  stiff.  Knead 
thoroughly  for  15  to  20  minutes,  re- 
turn to  bread  bowl  which  has  been 
washed  and  buttered.  When  doubled 
in  size,  shape  into  2  loaves,  place  in 
oblong  bread  tins  and  allow  to  rise 
until  very  light.  Bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven  for  10  or  15  minutes,  then  mod- 
erate the  heat  and  bake  from  45  min- 
utes to  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  accord- 
ing to  heat  of  oven. 

414.     NUT   BREAD. 

Make  as  for  Whole  Wheat  Bread, 
working  in  a  cup  of  chopped  nut  meats 
when  adding  the  whole  wheat  flour. 
English  walnuts,  hickory  nuts,  or  but- 
ternuts  are   best. 

415.     RYE  BREAD. 

Make  the  same  as  Water  Bread.  In 
the  morning  when  well  risen,  add  a 
second  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  a  cup 
of  rye  flour  instead  of  the  sixth  cup 
of  wheat  flour.  If  more  flour  is  neces- 
sary for  kneading,  use  rye  instead  of 
wheat,  but  do  not  use  more  than  is  re- 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


115 


quired  to  make  the  dough  just  stiff 
enough  to  handle  without  sticking. 
Knead  10  or  15  minutes  or  until  bub- 
bles break  in  the  dough  and  it  is  elastic 
and  tender.  White  flour  should  be 
used  for  the  bread  board.  Rye  bread 
should  not  be  quite  so  stiff  as  wheat 
bread,  and  may  need  to  bake  a  little 
longer. 

416.     GRAHAM  BREAD. 

1  cup  scalded  milk. 
1^  cups  boiling  water. 
Yi   cup  molasses. 

lYz    teaspoons   salt. 

^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  2  table- 
spoons lukewarm  water. 

3  cups  wheat  flour. 

3  cups  graham  flour. 

Pour  scalded  milk  and  boiling  water 
upon  molasses  and  salt  in  bread  mixer. 
Dissolve  yeast  cake  in  the  lukewarm 
water  and  when  bread  mixture  has 
cooled  to  lukewarm,  stir  in  2  cups  of 
wheat  flour,  then  the  dissolved  yeast, 
add  the  third  cup  of  wheat  flour  and 
stir  in  the  3  cups  of  graham,  after  sift- 
ing. Part  of  the  bran  remains  in  sifter 
and  should  not  be  used.  Cover  well 
and  allow  to  rise  until  doubled  in  bulk. 
Stir  again,  beating  for  10  minutes. 
Half  iill  well  buttered  bread  pans  and 
allow  to  rise  until  nearly  doubled  in 
bulk.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  2  or 
2J4    hours. 

417.     QUICK  GRAHAM   BREAD. 

lYz    pints   sour  milk. 

Yt  cup  New  Orleans  molasses. 

Y2  teaspoon  salt. 

2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water. 

Graham  flour. 

Mix  sour  milk  and  molasses,  add  salt 
and  soda  dissolved  in  the  hot  water. 
Add  as  much  graham  flour  as  can  be 
stirred  in  with  a  spoon;  pour  into 
a  well  greased  bread  pan,  set  at  once 
into  a  slow  oven  and   bake  two  hours. 


418. 


UNLEAVENED  GRAHAM 
BREAD. 


3J^  cups  graham  flour  or  meal. 

1  cup  cold  water. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Add  flour  to  cold  water  and  salt,  and 
knead  for  20  minutes.  Shape  into  a 
loaf,  lay  into  a  small  well  buttered 
bread  tin,   allow   to  rise  for   two   hours 


and  bake  in ,  a  moderate  oven  for  two 
hours.  This  resembles  the  German 
pumpernickel  and  is  a  very  easily  di- 
gested bread  recommended  for  dyspep- 
tics. 

419.     BOSTON    BROWN    BREAD. 

2  cups  cornmeal. 

2  cups  rye   meal. 

2  cups  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Yz  cup  New  Orleans  molasses. 

1  egg. 

I/2  cup   seeded   raisins. 

Sift  salt  with  the  flour;  dissolve  soda 
in  sour  milk  and  add  to  the  flour; 
add  molasses,  egg  ^  well  beaten,  and 
the  raisins.  Pour  into  well  buttered 
brown  bread  moulds  or  a  tapering 
pail  with  tight  cover.  Steam  3  hours 
putting  on  over  cold  water  and  begin 
to  time  as  soon  as  water  boils.  When 
done,  remove  covers  from  moulds  and 
bake    H    hour. 

420.  CORN  BREAD  WITHOUT 
BUTTER. 

2  rounding  cups  cornmeal. 

2  cups  sour  milk   or  buttermilk. 

1  egg. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk  or  but- 
termilk, stir  into  the  meal  sifted  with 
salt;  beat  until  smooth  and  bake  in 
shallow  cake  tin  or  gem  pans.  _  1  ta- 
blespoon sugar  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired. 

421.  CORN  BREAD  WITH 
BUTTER. 

1  cup  cornmeal. 

1  cup  flour. 

Y3    cup   sugar. 

1  egg. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

Y3   teaspoon  soda. 

1  tablespoon  butter  (or  two  may  be 
used). 

Beat  egg  and  add  meal  and  sour 
milk  alternately,  then  the  butter  (soft- 
ened), sugar  and  finally  the  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  warm  water.  Sweet 
milk  may  be  used,  but  is  not  as  nice; 
in  this  case  use  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder  sifted  with  the  flour,  and  omit 
the  soda;  bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven,  using  a  cake  tin  about  2  inches 
deep. 


116 


THE  MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


422.     FRUIT  LOAF. 

J4    cake   of   compressed   yeast. 

2  cups  scalded    milk. 

2  cups  white    flour. 

3J4  cups  graham  and  whole  wheat 
flour   mixed. 

1  cup   raisins. 

Dissolve  yeast  in  2  tablespoons  of 
the  milk,  cooled  to  lukewarm,  then 
add  to  balance  of  milk  which  has  been 
scalded  and  cooled  until  tepid;  stir  in 
the  white  flour,  beating  thoroughly; 
raise  until  foamy,  then  beat  in  the 
graham  and  whole  wheat  flour  (equal 
proportions)  sifted  together.  A  little 
more  than  the  amount  given  may  be 
added  if  necessary  for  kneading. 
Knead  thoroughly  for  20  minutes,  then 
work  in  the  raisins  which  have  been 
washed,  seeded,  dried  in  a  napkin  and 
dredged  with  flour.  Allow  to  rise, 
then  shape  for  tins,  raise  again  in  the 
pans,  and  bake. 


423.     BUCKWHEAT    BREAKFAST 
CAKE. 

1J4   cups  buckwheat  flour. 

J4   cup  white  flour. 

2  tablespoons   molasses. 

1  cup    buttermilk     (or    sour    milk). 

1   scant  teaspoon  soda. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

IH   teaspoons  salt. 

Mix  and  sift  flour  and  salt;  dis- 
solve soda  in  buttermilk,  stir  into  flour, 
add  molasses  then  melted  butter.  Beat 
thoroughly  and  pour  into  a  well  but- 
tered square  tin  2  inches  deep.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  to  a  golden  brown; 
test  with  broom  corn.  When  done, 
the  broom  corn  will  come  out  smooth. 
Buckwheat  calls  for  buttermilk  but  if 
this  cannot  be  obtained,  sour  milk  may 
be   substituted. 


xxvn 


Batters,  Rolls,  Breakfast  Cakes 


424.     BATTER    FOR    EGGING    AND 
CRUMBING. 

For  each  well  beaten  egg,  add  1  or 
2  tablespoons  of  cold  water;  roll  cro- 
quettes, cutlets  or  whatever  is  to  be 
crumbed,  first  in  the  crumbs,  then  in 
egg  mixture,   then  in   crumbs  again. 

425.     THIN    BATTER. 

The  following  makes  a  thin  batter, 
useful  in  many  ways  such  as  frying 
German   toast,    frying   tripe,    etc.: 

1  egg. 

Yi  teaspoon  sugar. 

yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Yt.  cup  milk. 

Yz   cup  flour. 

Beat  the  egg,  add  sugar,  milk  and 
flour  sifted  with  the  salt.  Beat  until 
smooth.  This  makes  a  little  more  than 
a  cup  of  batter.  If  more  is  desired, 
increase  the  ingredients,  keeping  the 
proportions   the    same. 

426.     DUMPLINGS. 

2  cups  flour. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Y2   teaspoon  salt. 

Y2  tablespoon  butter. 

54   cup  milk. 


Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt 
together.  Work  in  butter  with  finger 
tips  and  when  thoroughly  mixed,  add 
milk  gradually.  Beat  well  and  drop 
this  thick  batter  by  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls  upon  potatoes  and  meat  in  the 
stew  kettle.  If  liquid  comes  above 
meat  and  potatoes,  pour  off  a  little,  as 
the  dumplings  should  not  rest  on  liquid 
but  on  meat  and  potatoes  above  it. 
Cover  kettle  and  cook  six  minutes, 
when  dumplings  should  be  thoroughly 
steamed  and  light.  Take  up  dumplings 
on  a  separate  platter. 

427.     TEA    ROLLS. 

Use  a  portion  of  Favorite  Bread 
dough  (see  No.  409).  Take  off  enough 
for  a  small  loaf,,  roll  long  and  slender, 
and  cut  off  into  12  portions.  Work 
each  portion  into  a  round  shape  in  the 
hand,  brush  over  top  and  sides  with 
melted  butter  and  arrange  rolls  in  a 
double  crowded  row  in  a  well  but- 
tered bread  tin;  prick  each  roll  with 
a  fork,  and  set  the  tin  beside  the  ice 
or  in  a  very  cool  place.  Cover  with  a 
thickly  folded  bread  cloth.  This  should 
be  done  when  bread  is  shaped  for  the 
tins  in  the  forenoon.  40  minutes  be- 
fore tea  time  or  evening  dinner,  set 
the    tin    of    rolls    in    a    warm    place    for 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


117 


20  minutes,  keeping  them  covered.  Bake 
20  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
If  rolls  are  not  browned  on  the  bot- 
tom and  sides  when  done,  tip  them  out 
and  turn  them  over  in  the  tin  and 
allow  bottoms  to  brown  lightly. 


428.     SHAMROCKS. 

Prepare  dough  as  above,  but  shape 
round,  about  the  size  of  a  twenty-five 
cent  piece  of  a  large  marble;  brush 
well  with  melted  butter  and  pack  into 
buttered  gem-pans,  allowing  three  bis- 
cuits to  each  gem-pan.  When  well 
risen,  bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven.  The  contents  of  each  divi- 
sion will  tip  out  in  a  dainty  roll,  which 
will  divide  into  three  sections  when 
broken  at  the  table. 


429.     PARKER   HOUSE   ROLLS. 

2  quarts   flour. 

1  quart  milk. 

2  heaping  tablespoons  butter  (or  1 
of  butter  and  1  of  lard  or  clarified 
beef  drippings). 

1  heaping    tablespoon    sugar. 
1   teaspoon    salt. 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  J4  cup 
lukewarm  water. 

Sift  sugar  with  the  flour  into  bread 
mixer  or  bowl;  melt  shortening  in 
scalded  milk;  make  a  well  in  center 
of  flour  and  pour  the  milk  at  boiling 
point  into  this  well;  let  it  stand  until 
lukewarm,  add  dissolved  yeast,  stir  a 
very  little  of  the  flour  from  sides  into 
the  liquid  and  allow  to  stand  until 
morning. 

Mix  all  thoroughly  with  a  knife,  al- 
low to  rise,  then  cut  down  and  allow 
to  rise  again.  About  two  hours  be- 
fore wanted,  add  a  little  more  flour, 
just  enough  to  permit  kneading.  Knead 
for  10  minutes,  roll  out  to  54  inch 
thickness;  cut  out  with  round  biscuit 
cutter;  crease  across  with  a  wooden 
skewer,  pressing  down  firmly  and  mak- 
ing one  half  a  little  larger  than  the 
other;  brush  with  melted  butter,  fold 
smaller  half  over  the  larger,  press 
lightly  into  place  and  lay  into  shallow, 
buttered  tin.  Arrange  rolls  about  one 
inch  apart,  allow  to  rise  in  a  cool  place 
for  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  bring 
into  warmer  temperature  for  ten  min- 
utes and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven. 


430.  SALAD  OR  DINNER  ROLLS. 

2  cups  scalded   milk. 

J4  cup  butter. 

2  tablespoons   sugar. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  yi  cup 
lukewarm  water. 

Flour. 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  scalded 
milk;  when  lukewarm,  add  dissolved 
yeast  cake  and  3  cups  flour.  Beat 
thoroughly,  cover  and  let  rise  ttntil 
light;  cut  down  and  add  enough  flour 
to  knead  (about  2y2  cups).  Let  rise 
again,  toss  on  slightly  floured  board, 
knead,  pat  and  roll  out  to  y^  inch 
thickness.  Cut  and  shape  into  small 
biscuits,  place  in  rows  on  floured  bread 
board,  cover  with  cloth  and  pan  and 
let  rise  until  light  and  well  puffed. 
Flour  handle  of  wooden  spoon  and 
make  a  deep  crease  across  middle  of 
each  biscuit.  Take  up  and  press  edges 
together.  Place  closely  in  buttered  pan, 
cover,  let  rise  and  bake  12  to  15  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven.  From  this  same 
mixture  crescents,  braids,  twists,  bow- 
knots  and  other  fancy  shapes  may  be 
made. — (Fannie   M.    Farmer.) 

431.     BREAKFAST    ROLLS. 

1  rounding    tablespoon   butter. 

2  cups  hot  milk. 
4  cups  flour. 

1   egg- 

34  teaspoon  salt. 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  J4  cup 
lukewarm  water. 

Dissolve  the  butter  in  scalded  milk; 
when  lukewarm  stir  in  the  flour,  add 
the  beaten  egg,  salt  and  yeast.  Work 
dough  until  smooth.  If  winter,  set 
in  a  warm  place;  if  summer,  in  a  cool 
place  to  rise.  Early  in  the  morning 
work  the  dough,  keeping  it  soft  and 
roll  out  Yz  inch  thick  and  cut  into 
biscuit;  set  to  rise  for  30  minutes. 
They  are  then  ready  to  bake  for  15 
or    20     minutes    in    a    moderately    hot 


432.      FAMOUS    MORAVIAN    COF- 
FEE CAKE. 

1  cup  milk. 

J^   cup  mashed  potatoes. 

%  yeast    cake. 

yi   cup  lukewarm  water. 

2  teaspoons    salt. 
1  egg. 

J^   cup  white   sugar. 


118 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


J4  cup  butter. 

54  cup  lard     or     clarified    beef     drip- 
pings. 

434   cups  flour. 


Yi  cup  butter. 

1  cup  medium  light  brown  sugar. 

2  tablespoons   flour. 

Stir  mashed  potatoes  into  a  cup  of 
milk  in  a  large  earthen  bowl.  Add  yeast 
dissolved  in  lukewarm  water;  add  salt 
and  2  cups  of  flour,  to  make  a  stiff 
sponge.  Beat  thoroughly  for  five  min- 
utes, cover  with  bread  cloth  and  tin 
cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  over 
night  (mix  just  before  retiring).  Early 
in  the  morning  add  one  well  beaten 
egg,  H  cup  white  sugar,  the  half  cup 
of  shortening,  softened,  and  2J^  cups 
of  flour  or  just  enough  to  knead  the 
sponge  until  it  no  longer  sticks  to  the 
hands  and  until  bubbles  break  in  it. 
Roll  the  dough  to  one  inch  thickness 
and  spread  in  2  large  shallow  tins  or 
four  smaller  round  ones.  Cover  lightly 
with  bread  cloth  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  30  or  40  minutes.  When 
very  light,  punch  holes  nearly  to  the 
bottom,  using  the  floured  end  of  a  sil- 
ver knife  handle.  Use  _  J/3  cup  of 
butter,  cut  into  34  inch  dice,  and  put 
a  bit  in  each  hole;  rub  2  tablespoons 
of  flour  with  a  cup  of  medium  light 
brown  sugar,  until  sugar  is  fine  and 
well  mixed  with  the  flour.  Scatter 
liberally  over  the  buttered  and  raised 
dough  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick 
oven  20  minutes.  This  is  the  most  de- 
licious   of    Coffee    Cake. 

433.     HOT   CROSS   BUNS. 

1  cup  scalded  milk. 
J4    cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 
H  teaspoon  salt. 

J4  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  J4  cup 
lukewarm  water. 

54  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

3  cups  flour. 
1  egg. 

J4   cup  raisins  stoned  and  quartered. 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk; 
when  lukewarm,  add  dissolved  yeast 
cake,  cinnamon,  flour  and  egg  well 
beaten;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  add 
raisins,  cover  and  let  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning,  shape  into  large  bis- 
cuits, place  in  a  pan  1  inch  apart, 
allow  to  rise  (30  to  45  minutes),  brush 
over  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  20 
minutes;  cool  and  with  Ornamental 
Frosting    (see    No.    393)    make    a   cross 


on  the  top  of  each  bun.  (In  making 
cross,  either  use  pastry  bag  or  form  a 
piece  of  strong  brown  paper  into  a 
"cornucopia,"  fasten  with  a  pin,  clip 
off  the  point  to  leave  a  small  round 
hole,  fill  with  the  frosting  and  press 
through  with  a  spoon,  guiding  the 
frosting  into  a  cross  on  the  top  of 
each  bun.) — (Adapted  from  Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 

434.     ENGLISH    MUFFINS. 

1  cup  scalded   milk. 

1  cup  hot  water. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 

1  tablespoon  lard  or  clarified  beef 
drippings. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

%.  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved 
in    2    tablespoons    lukewarm    water. 

1  egg. 

4^    cups   sifted   flour. 

2  tablespoons   sugar. 

Dissolve  shortening,  sugar  and  salt  in 
the  scalded  milk;  when  lukewarm,  add 
the  well  beaten  egg,  2  cups  of  flour 
and  the  dissolved  yeast;  stir  thorough- 
ly, add  remaining  flour,  cover  as  di- 
rected for  bread  making  and  allow  to 
rise  over  night.  Early  in  the  morning 
half  fill  buttered  mufiin-rings  (set  upon 
a  buttered  tin  sheet)  and  allow  to  rise 
until  they  art  just  full.  Bake  30  min- 
utes  in   a   moderately   hot   oven. 

435.     POPOVERS. 

1  cup  sweet   milk    (scant). 

1  cup  sifted   flour. 

1  teaspoon   butter. 

1  egg. 

J^   teaspoon  sugar. 

%  teaspoon  salt. 

Stir  salt  and  flour  together,  stir  in 
milk  very  gradually  and  beat  until 
smooth.  Add  well  beaten  egg  and  but- 
ter melted;  beat  3  minutes  with  Dover 
egg  beater  and  bake  30  to  40  minutes 
in  gem-pans,  preferably  iron,  which 
have  been  heated  very  hot  and  then 
well   buttered. 

Gem-pans  should  be  hissing  hot  when 
batter  is  turned  into  them.  Do  not 
open  oven  door  for  at  least  30  min- 
utes— better  not  at  all.  Have  oven 
moderately   hot. 

436.     BAKING    POWDER    BISCUIT. 

2  cups  flour. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  tablespoon   butter   or   clarified   beef 
drippings. 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


119 


H  cup  milk  (or  half  milk  and  half 
water). 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  baking  powder,  flour  and  salt, 
working  in  butter  with  finger  tips;  add 
the  liquid,  very  gradually,  cutting  in 
with  a  knife  to  make  a  soft,  even  dough. 
Roll  out  about  J^  inch  thick,  shape  with 
biscuit  cutter,  arrange  biscuit  just 
touching  in  a  shallow  buttered  pan  and 
bake  15  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven. 

437.  ONE    EGG   MUFFINS. 

2  cups  flour. 

4  teaspoons    baking    powder. 
y^   teaspoon  salt. 
1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  cup   milk. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  (or  1 
tablespoon  melted  butter  and  1  of  clar- 
ified beef   drippings). 

1  egg. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt 
together,  add  the  milk  very  gradually, 
the  well  beaten  egg,  and  butter  melted. 
Beat  well  and  pour  into  buttered  gem- 
pans.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven. 

438.  BLUEBERRY    GEMS. 

1  cup   milk    (scant). 

1  tablespoon  sweet  cream. 

1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  egg. 

1  cup  graham   flour. 

1  cup  white  flour. 

1  cup  blueberries. 

Beat  yolk  of  egg  until  thick  and 
lemon  colored;  stir  in  sugar  and  add 
milk  and  cream  (milk  should  be  meas- 
ured a  little  scant  to  allow  for  ta- 
blespoon of  cream  which  should  just 
fill  the  cup).  Beat  two  minutes  with 
Dover  egg  beater.  Add  the  graham 
flour  very  gradually,  then  the  white 
flour,  and  beat  again  until  very  light. 
Finally  add  the  blueberries  and  fold 
in  the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  until 
stiff.  Use  blueberries  which  are  ripe 
but  sound.  Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem- 
pans  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

439.     WHEAT   MUFFINS. 

2  cups  milk. 
2  eggs. 

yi  teaspoon  salt. 

li    yeast    cake    dissolved    in    2    table- 
spoons warm  water. 
Flour. 


Beat  eggs,  add  the  milk,  dissolved 
yeast  and  salt;  add  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter;  allow  to  rise  4  or 
5  hours  and  bake  in  muffin-rings  in  a 
hot  oven  for  10  minutes. 

440.     GRAHAM    MUFFINS. 

Make  as  for  Wheat  Muffins,  using 
graham  flour  and  adding  2  tablespoons 
of  New  Orleans  molasses.  Graham 
muffins  should  be  baked  longer  and  a 
little  more  slowly. 

441.  CORN   MUFFINS. 

2  cups  sifted  Indian  meal. 

1  teaspoon  butter. 

2  cups  milk. 

H  teaspoon  salt. 

yj  oi  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a 
little   of  the   milk   heated   to   lukewarm. 

H  tablespoon    molasses. 

Sift  meal,  add  milk  very  gradually, 
beat  smooth,  add  melted  butter,  salt, 
the  dissolved  yeast  and  molasses.  Mix 
late  in  the  evening  and  allow  to  rise 
over  night  in  a  covered  bowl.  Bake  in 
muflin-rings  on  a  hot  griddle,  browning 
on  both  sides,  by  turning  when  half 
done  with  a  broad  knife  or  pancake 
turner. 

442.  GRAHAM    GEMS. 

1J4   cups  graham  flour. 

1  cup    white   flour. 

1  full   cup   sour  milk. 

%   cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoon    soda. 

yi   teaspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  softened  butter  or  2 
tablespoons  rich  cream. 

Sift  salt  and  the  two  kinds  of  flour 
together;  dissolve  soda  in  milk  and 
stir  in  gradually;  add  molasses  and 
shortening,  beat  smooth  and  bake  in 
hot  buttered  gem-pans  for  40  minutes 
in   moderately   hot   oven. 

443.     CORN   GEMS. 

}4  cup  cornmeal. 

1  cup  white  flour. 

1  teaspoon   soda. 

1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

J4  teaspoon   salt. 

%  cup    sour    milk. 

1  egg. 

Sift  corn  meal,  flour,  sugar  and  salt 
together;  dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk 
and   stir   in   gradually.     Add  well   beat- 


120 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


en  egg  and  melted  butter  quickly  and 
bake  at  once  in  hot  buttered  gem-pans, 
for   25    or    30    minutes. 

444.     GERMAN     TOAST. 

Make  a  thin  batter  allowing  two 
well  beaten  eggs  to  a  cup  of  milk  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Cut  stale  bread  into 
Yz  inch  slices,  dip  and  tvirn  quickly 
in  batter,  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown 
in  a  "piping"  hot  iron  frying  pan  well 
buttered.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  pass- 
ing grape  butter  or  peach  marmalade 
with  it. 

445.     FRENCH  TOAST. 

Prepare  batter  (see  No.  425);  cut 
bread  into  Yi  inch  slices  and  cut  slices 
in  two.  Dip  each  piece  in  the  batter 
and  fry  quickly  in  deep,  hot  fat.  As 
soon  as  lightly  browned,  remove  to 
coarse  brown  paper  to  absorb  fat. 
Dredge  with  sifted  powdered  sugar 
and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

446.     FRIED  MUSH. 

1  cup    cornmeal. 

3  cups  boiling  water. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Make  a  mush  as  follows:  into  a  kettle 
containing  3  cups  briskly  boiling  salted 
water  sprinkle  slowly  1  cup  of  corn- 
meal.  Stir  constantly  to  prevent  lump- 
ing and  cook  5  minutes  or  until  mush 
is  quite  thick.  Pour  into  a  small 
well  buttered  bread  tin.  For  break- 
fast mush,  this  should  be  done  the 
evening  before.  Tip  out  the  brick  of 
mush,  cut  into  H  inch  slices  and  fry 
in  deep  fat,  or  fry  in  butter  in  a 
frying  pan.  Slices  should  be  a  hand- 
some golden  brown.  Serve  with  ma- 
ple syrup,  as  the  last  course  for  break- 
fast.    This  makes  ten  slices. 


447.     BUTTER    CRACKERS. 

Spread  liberally  with  butter  twelve 
square  soda  crackers  or  six  old  fash- 
ioned crackers,  split  open,  allowing  ^ 
teaspoon  of  softened  butter  to  each 
piece  spread.  If  unsalted  crackers  are 
used,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt.  Crack- 
ers which  are  bought  already  salted 
will  not  need  more.  Lay  into  a  large 
dripping  pan  and  bake  to  a  golden 
brown  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Serve 
hot.  These  are  delicious  with  salad 
or  for  Sunday  Evening  Tea. 


448.     BUCKWHEAT    GRIDDLE 
CAKES. 

1J4  cups  buckwheat  flour. 

Va,  cup  white  flour. 

Yz   teaspoon  salt. 

2Y2  cups  buttermilk  or  thick  sour 
milk. 

1J4   teaspoons  soda. 

1  egg. 

Sift  buckwheat  flour,  white  flour  and 
salt  together.  Dissolve  soda  in  butter- 
milk (or  sour  milk)  and  add  very 
gradually,  beating  very  smooth.  Add 
well  beaten  egg  and  bake  on  a  hot 
iron  griddle  greased  with  salt  pork  or 
beef  drippings.  When  full  of  bubbles 
and  lightly  browned  on  one  side,  turn, 
using  a  broad  knife  or  cake  turner. 
These  cakes  are  quite  thin  and  may 
be  made  as  small  griddle  cakes  or  if 
made  large,  may  be  buttered,  sprinkled 
with  sugar  and  rolled  over  a  knife. 
Serve  with  new  maple  syrup  or  a  fruit 
marmalade.  Use  buttermilk  in  prefer- 
ence to  sour  milk  if  convenient.  This 
makes  twelve  or  more  large  or  thirty- 
six  small  cakes. 


449. 


SOUR   MILK  GRIDDLE 
CAKES. 


\Ya   cups  flour. 

Ya    teaspoon   salt. 

1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

54  teaspoon  soda. 

1  egg. 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  sugar  together; 
dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk  and  add 
gradually  to  the  flour  beating  smooth; 
add  v/ell  beaten  egg.  Bake  on  a 
greased,  hot  iron  griddle  making  large 
cakes  to  be  spread  with  butter  and  su- 
gar, or  small  cakes  to  be  served  with 
maple  syrup. 


450. 


GRIDDLE    CAKES    WITH 
SWEET  MILK. 


Ij^   cups  flour. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Y2    teaspoon   salt. 

2    tablespoons    sugar. 

lYi  cups  milk. 

1  egg. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  or  2  table- 
spoons  rich   cream. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and 
sugar  together;  add  milk  very  grad- 
ually beating  smooth.  Add  well  beaten 
egg  and  melted  butter.  Cook  as  di- 
rected  for  Buckwheat  Cakes. 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


121 


451.    CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

1  cup  flour. 

%  cup  cornmeal. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

54   teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 
1  cup  boiling  water. 
^  cup  milk. 

1  egg. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

Add  salt  to  boiling  water  and  while 
boiling  briskly  sprinkle  in  the  corn- 
meal  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
lumping;  boil  5  minutes,  turn  into  mix- 
ing bowl,  add  slowly  the  milk  then  the 
white  flour,  baking  powder  and  sugar 
sifted  together;  add  the  well  beaten 
egg  and  melted  butter.  Cook  as  direct- 
ed for  Buckwheat  Cakes. 


452. 


SWEET-CORN  GRIDDLE 

CAKES. 


Make  a  batter  as  directed  for  Sour 
Milk  Griddle  Cakes  and  add  Yz  cup  of 
cold  sweet  corn  cut  from  the  cob. 
Scrape  the  cob  well  to  include  all  sweet 
juices. 

453.     IDEAL  DOUGHNUTS. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

1   even  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

K   teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  tablespoon  rich  sour  cream  or  J^ 
tablespoon  butter. 

Yi   oi  a.  nutmeg  grated. 

2%   cups  flour. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  sugar  gradually; 
dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk  and  add  to 
the  mixture;  add  nutmeg;  stir  in  flour, 
salt,  and  baking  powder  sifted  together. 
Doughnuts  should  be  handled  as  soft 
as  possible,  never  knead  them.  Sprinkle 
bread  board  with  flour,  take  half  of 
the  dough  and  roll  ^  inch  thickness. 
Cut  out  with  doughnut  cutter  (a 
round  cutter  which  makes  a  hole  in 
the  center).  Fry  in  fat  that  just 
smokes,  but  is  not  hot  enough  to  burn. 
Do  not  turn  doughnuts  until  they  have 
risen  well,  but  do  not  allow  them  to 
crack  open  much  as  this  mars  their 
appearance.  When  well  risen  on  one 
side,  turn,  brown  lightly,  turn  again 
and  when  evenly  browned,  remove  to 
coarse  brown  paper  to  drain.  This 
makes  35  doughnuts. 


454.     GRANDMOTHER'S    CREAM 
DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  sour  cream. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 
54  teaspoon  salt. 
ZY2    cups    flour. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  sugar  gradually, 
then  the  sour  cream  in  which  soda  has 
been  dissolved.  Beat  thoroughly  and 
stir  in  flour  sifted  with  salt.  Handle 
as  soft  as  possible;  roll,  cut  and  fry 
as  directed  for  No.  453. 

455.      MOTHER'S     PLAIN    DOUGH- 
NUTS. 

2  cups  flour. 

2  even    teaspoons    baking    powder. 

1  scant  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  butter. 

Sweet   milk. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt 
together  into  mixing  bowl.  Rub  in 
butter  with  finger  tips  and  stir  in 
■milk  to  make  a  dough  as  soft  as  can 
be  handled  (about  two-thirds  of  a  cup). 
Tip  out  upon  floured  board,  roll  into 
a  strip  3  inches  wide  and  J^  inch 
thick.  Cut  off  strips  ^  inch  wide,  roll 
them  out  long,  twist  and  fry  to  a  light 
brown  in  deep  fat.  This  makes  18 
doughnuts,  and  is  an  excellent  recipe 
for  doughnuts  to  be  eaten  fresh  with 
syrup   or  coff^ee. 


456. 


RAISED    DOUGHNUTS 
(PLAIN). 


When  making  bread,  take  from  the 
bread  dough,  which  has  been  raised  and 
is  ready  for  the  tins,  enough  to  fill  a 
pint  basin;  roll  to  half  inch  thickness, 
cut  into  half  inch  strips  6  inches 
long,  twist  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in 
deep  fat  as  for  doughnuts.  Serve  hot 
for  breakfast.  This  makes  a  dozen 
doughnuts. 

457.     CRULLERS. 

Two  coffee-cups  sugar,  one  of  sweet 
milk,  three  eggs,  a  heaping  tablespoon 
butter,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder 
mixed  with  six  cups  flour,  half  a  nut- 
meg, and  a  level  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  butter  together, 
add  milk,  spices  and  flour;  put  another 
cup  flour  on  moulding  board,  turn  the 


122 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


doughy  out  on  it,  and,  handling  lightly, 
work  in  flour  until  stiff  enough  to  roll 
out  to  a  quarter  inch  thick;  cut  into 
2-inch  squares,  make  three  or  four 
long  incisions  in  each  square,  using 
a  "cruller  wheel,"  lift  by  taking  alter- 
nate strips  between  the  finger  and 
thumb,  drop  into  hot  lard,  and  cook 
like  doughnuts. 

458.     ROSETTE    WAFERS. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  sugar. 

yi   teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  cup  flour. 


Powdered   sugar. 

Beat  eggs  slightly  with  sugar  and 
salt;  add  milk,  then  flour  and  beat  un- 
til smooth.  Batter  should  be  quite 
thin.  This  amount  makes  40  rosettes 
for  which  Swedish  rosette  irons  are 
necessary.  These  rosettes  make  very 
nice  foundations  for  patties,  individual 
short  cakes,  creamed  vegetables,  etc. 
If  served  as  a  dessert,  they  may  be 
sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar.  They 
keep  well  in  a  stone  jar  and  may  be 
used  as  needed  in  various  ways. 

459.     SHORT   CAKE   CRUST. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 
54  cup  sour  milk. 

2  tablespoons  sour  cream  or  1  table- 
spoon  melted  butter. 

y2  teaspoon  salt. 

Sift_  flour  and  salt  together;  dissolve 
soda  in  sour  milk,  stir  gradually  into 
flour;  add  cream  or  butter.  This  should 
make  a  soft  dough;  if  at  all  "pasty" 
add  a  little  more  flour  by  stirring;  do 
not  knead.  Roll  to  J^  inch  thickness 
and  cut  out  with  biscuit  cutter.  Spread 
on  a  buttered  tin  sheet  or  pan  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  IS  min- 
utes.     Split    open    the    biscuit,    arrange 


on  individual  plates,  laying  on  lower 
half  and  covering  with  sweetened  ber- 
ries. Then  lay  on  second  half  turned 
upside  down,  and  cover  with  the  fruit. 
Dust  with  powdered  sugar  if  desired 
or   add   a   "cap"    of   whipped   cream. 

Or,  dough  may  be  shaped  into  two 
large  biscuits  to  fit  round  cake  tins 
and  baked  20  minutes.  Put  together 
as  directed  for  individual  short  cakes, 
using  one  biscuit  for  the  lower  half 
and  the  other  for  the  top.  Individual 
short  cakes,  however,  are  little  trouble 
and  more  dainty.  Strawberries,  black- 
berries, blueberries,  peaches,  bananas, 
oranges,  currants,  steamed  rhubarb  or 
other  fresh  fruits  may  be  used  for  short 
cakes. 

Or,  crust  may  be  made  like  baking 
powder  biscuits,  with  the  addition  of 
another  tablespoon  of  butter  worked 
into  flour  (see  No.  436).  A  little  more 
butter  may  also  be  worked  in  by  spread- 
ing, folding  and  rolling  as  for  puff 
paste,    to   make   crust   extra   flaky. 

460.     SHORT   CAKE   FILLINGS. 

Strawberries  should  be  slightly 
crushed  and  covered  with  medium 
brown  or  maple  sugar  20  minutes  be- 
fore time  for  serving.  Spread  fruit 
upon    the   crust   when   partially    cooled. 

Blackberries,  blueberries,  peaches  and 
currants  should  be  covered  with  white 
sugar  and  treated  as  above.  Any  ex- 
tra juice  may  be  served  in  a  pitcher  as 
a  sauce. 

Bananas  and  oranges  may  be  sliced 
and  combined,  laying  the  fruit  upon 
the  crust  and  sprinkling  with  sugar. 
Serve  with  cream.  Or,  spread  crusts 
with  orange  and  cover  with  orange 
sauce   (see   No.   508). 

Steamed  rhubarb  should  be  sweetened 
a  little  with  medium  light  brown  su- 
gar and  spread  between  and  on  top  of 
biscuit.  Whipped  cream  is  particularly 
nice  with  rhubarb. 


xxvm 

Sandwiches 


461.     MEAT  SANDWICHES. 

Almost  any  kind  of  cold  meat  is  nice 
for  sandwiches,  either  sliced,  or 
chopped,  seasoned,  pressed,  and  made 
into    a    loaf    to    be    sliced.     Thinly    cut 


bread  and  thinly  sliced  meat  is  the 
secret  of  dainty  sandwiches.  If  for  a 
picnic  or  traveler's  luncheon,  wrap  each 
sandwich  (and  all  other  articles  of 
food  as  well),  in  a  bit  of  waxed  paper 
and  the  lunch  will  come  out  fresh  and 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


123 


dainty,  never  "mussy."  Tongue,  boiled 
ham,  cold  roast  beef  or  cold  veal  may 
be  seasoned  with  a  bit  of  French  mus- 
tard spread  thinly  upon  the  meat.  A 
crisp  lettuce  leaf  improves  almost  any 
sandwich,  whether  filled  with  meat,  nuts 
or  cheese. 

462.     FRENCH    MUSTARD. 

1  tablespoon  ground  mustard. 

Yi  teaspoon  sugar. 

Yz   teaspoon  vinegar. 

Hot  water. 

Stir  sugar  and  mustard  together,  add 
the  vinegar  and  rub  smooth  with  back 
of  a  spoon.  Add  enough  more  hot 
water  to  make  thin  enough  for  spread- 
ing. The  above  proportions  will  be 
found  agreeable.  The  quantity  may  be 
increased  as  desired. 

463.     PEANUT    SANDWICHES. 

Make  Peanut  Butter  (see  No.  267). 
Spread  thinly  cut  slices  of  bread  with 
the  Peanut  Butter,  lay  crisp  lettuce 
leaves  between,  press  the  slices  together 
and  if  large,   cut  into   fourths. 

464.     PECAN    SANDWICHES. 

Use  Pecan  Nut  Butter  (see  No. 
270).  Use  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  pre- 
pare as  for  Peanut  Sandwiches. 

465.     SARDINE     SANDWICHES. 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  sar- 
dines, and  mash  to  a  paste.  Mix  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  yolks  of  hard 
boiled  eggs,  rubbed  through  a  wire 
sieve.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne  and  a 
few     drops     of    lemon    juice.     Moisten 


with  olive  oil  or  melted  butter.  Spread 
mixture  between  thin  slices  of  but- 
tered  bread. —  (Fannie    M.    Farmer.) 


466. 


BROWN    BREAD    SAND- 
WICHES. 


Butter  thinly  cut  slices  of  Boston 
Brown  Bread;  spread  with  Neufchatel 
or  Cottage  Cheese,  press  the  slices 
together  and  if  large,  cut  into  fourths. 

467.     COTTAGE   CHEESE. 

Use  freshly  soured  milk,  which  has 
become  thickened  or  "curdled."  Heat 
gently  until  the  liquid  separates  from 
the  whey,  but  be  careful  not  to  boil  it, 
as  this  hardens  the  whey  and  makes 
the  cheese  tough.  When  heated,  strain 
through  double  cheese  cloth  or  a  nap- 
kin and  drain  well,  squeezing  slightly 
but  not  leaving  the  curd  too  dry.  Turn 
into  a  bowl,  season  with  softened  but- 
ter, salt,  a  bit  of  pepper  if  liked,  and 
a  little  rich  sweet  cream.  Press  into 
a  bowl  or  mould  and  when  cold,  tip 
out   and    slice. 

The  above  is  best  for  sandwiches. 
If  served  separately  as  cheese,  some 
like  the  addition  of  a  little  sage,  well 
pulverized. 

468.     CHEESE   SANDWICHES. 

Cut  bread  very  thin,  removing  the 
crusts;  slices  may  be  given  a  round 
shape  with  biscuit  cutter.  Spread  one 
slice  with  a  thick  layer  of  grated 
American  or  Swiss  cheese,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne,  press 
a  second  slice  firmly  upon  this;  pre- 
pare all  slices  as  above  and  fry  to  a 
delicate  brown  in  equal  parts  of  hot 
lard  and  butter. 


XXIX 
Cereals 


Cereals  should  form  a  part  of  the 
daily  menu.  Hot  cereals  for  breakfast 
are  best  in  winter;  in  summer  they  are 
better  cold  and  should  be  served  in 
smaller  portions,  as  they  are  energy 
producers.  Being  easily  digested,  they 
are  a  desirable  summer  diet  with  milk, 
though  rice,  rolled  wheat  and  the  light- 
er varieties  with  little  oat  meal  should 
be    selected    for    warm    weather.        The 


heavier  or  coarser  cereals,  except  in 
moderate  portions,  are  too  heating  for 
summer. 

469.     CORN   MEAL   MUSH. 

To  make  a  smooth  corn  meal  mush, 
sprinkle  the  meal  from  the  hand  into 
vigorously  boiling  salted  water.  Stir 
constantly    while    gradually    adding    the 


124 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


meal;  when  nearly  as  thick  as  desired, 
remove  to  one  side  of  range  and  allow 
to  simmer  gently  for  20  minutes. 

470.     MACARONI. 

Macaroni,  spaghetti  or  vermicelli 
should  be  first  thoroughly  washed,  then 
boiled  in  salted  boiling  water;  never 
put  them  into  cold  water.  Cook  20  or 
30  minutes  or  until  tender;  drain  and 
rinse  with  boiling  water.  Never  add 
cold  water  to  this  class  of  cereals  while 
cooking.  Boiled  in  the  above  manner, 
they  may  be  seasoned  with  butter  or 
with  butter  and  tomato  sauce  and 
served  as  a  vegetable. 


471.     MACARONI    WITH    CHEESE. 

Break  macaroni  into  1  inch  lengths; 
boil  as  in  No.  470.  Drain  and  rinse 
in  boiling  water.  For  J4  pound  of 
macaroni  have  ready  2  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter,  4  ounces  grated  cheese, 
and  a  cup  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs. 
Butter  a  baking  dish,  cover  the  bot- 
tom with  macaroni  (or  vermicelli), 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  a  little  melted 
butter,  and  about  J4  of  the  grated 
cheese.  Sprinkle  over  a  little  salt;  re- 
peat as  before,  finishing  with  the  grated 
cheese  on  top.  Brown  in  a  quick  oven 
and  serve  hot  in  the  baking  dish. 

472.     MACARONI    ITALIENNE. 

The  true  Italian  method  of  cooking 
macaroni,  spaghetti  or  vermicelli  is  as 
follows: 

Prepare  the  cereal  by  boiling  in  salt- 
ed water  as  directed  in  No.  470;  make 
a  tomato  sauce  (see  No.  165),  having 
the  latter  quite  thick  and  well  sea- 
soned and  adding  an  extra  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Add  to 
the  sauce  1^  teaspoons  of  beef  ex- 
tract. After  draining  the  macaroni  or 
spaghetti,  turn  into  a  deep  dish, 
sprinkle  with  grated  Swiss  or  Ameri- 
can cheese,  add  a  portion  of  the  to- 
mato sauce  and  beef  juice  mixture  (the 
latter  should  be  very  hot  in  order  to 
melt  the  cheese).  Then  add  another 
layer  of  macaroni  or  spaghetti,  more 
grated  cheese  and  more  sauce.  Stir 
lightly  with  a  fork  so  as  not  to  break 
the  cereal  and  continue  adding  maca- 
roni or  spaghetti  and  the  sauce  until 
all  are  well  mixed.  Keep  it  hot  and 
serve  at  once  with  grated  cheese  on  a 
side  dish. 


473.    OATMEAL. 

Steel  cut  oat  meal  is  the  most  de- 
licious, highly  flavored  form  of  this 
sustaining  cereal.  This  is  also  less  ex- 
pensive than  the  prepared  varieties. 
Keep  the  steel  cut  oatmeal  in  tightly 
closed  glass  jars.  For  breakfast  por- 
ridge measure  ^  cup  of  steel  cut  oat- 
meal, lYi  cups  water,  and  an  even 
teaspoon  of  salt,  these  being  correct 
proportions  for_  four  or  five  persons. 
Put  on  the  night  before,  in  double 
boiler,  and  allow  to  simmer  gently  dur- 
ing the  evening;  remove  to  back  of 
the  range  and  allow  to  stand  all  night 
upon  the  back  of  the  stove  without 
boiling.  In  the  morning  set  the  double 
boiler  forward;  be  sure  there  is  plenty 
of  water  in  the  outer  pan  and  allow 
to  cook  vigorously  for  20  or  30  min^ 
utes. 

474.     BOILED  RICE. 

In  order  to  boil  rice  and  keep  the 
kernels  whole,  wash  a  cup  of  rice  thor- 
oughly, until  the  water  is  clear;  drain 
and  add  slowly  2^  quarts  boiling 
water,  to  which  a  tablespoon  of  salt 
has  been  added.  Be  sure  the  water 
boils  well  before  rice  is  added.  Stir 
lightly  with  a  fork,  and  allow  to  boil 
25  or  30  minutes,  or  until  kernels  are 
tender  and  do  not  taste  raw.  If  water 
boils  away,  add  more  boiling  water. 
Keep  the  rice  well  covered  with  wa- 
ter. When  tender,  drain  in  a  coarse 
wire  strainer  and  carefully  pour  over 
it  a  quart  and  a  half  of  boiling  water 
to  rinse  off  adhering  starch.  Return 
rice  to  the  kettle  in  which  it  was 
cooked,  cover  the  kettle  and  allow  to 
stand  where  it  will  not  scorch,  until 
rice  is  well  dried  off.  Kernels  will  be 
firm   and   distinct. 

Boiled  rice  may  be  served  as  a  vege- 
table either  without  seasoning,  other 
than  the  salt,  or  it  may  be  seasoned 
with  plenty  of  melted  butter,  with  to- 
mato sauce,  or  a  meat  juice. 

BOILED   RICE   FOR   DESSERT. 

If  for  dessert,_  add  a  cup  of  washed 
raisins  to  the  rice  10  minutes  before 
removing  from  the  boiling  liquid.  In 
stirring  in  raisins,  use  a  fork  and  stir 
lightly. 

475.     RICE    BOILED    IN    MILK. 

Milk  may  be  used  in  place  of  water 
for    boiled    rice    and    is    especially    nice 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


125 


when  the  rice  is  to  be  used  as  a  des- 
sert. If  milk  be  used,  cook  the  rice 
in  a  double  boiler,  but  be  sure  that 
it  is  a  large  one.  For  a  cup  of  rice 
use  a  quart  and  a  half  of  milk  (or  1 
quart  milk  and  1  pint  water)  and  when 
rice  is  tender,  drain  and  return  to  dou- 
ble boiler  to  dry  off.  Raisins  may  be 
added  10  minutes  before  removing  from 
the  hot  milk. 

476.     RICE  ITALIENNE. 

Boil  rice  as  in  No.  474.  When 
rinsed  with  boiling  water,  return  to 
kettle  in  which  it  was  cooked  and  pour 
over  it  a  sauce  made  of  4  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  beef  extract 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Stir  in  the 
sauce    as    lightly    as    possible,    using    a 


fork  in  order  not  to  break  the  rice. 
Cover  and  keep  hot  about  5  minutes, 
then  serve. 

477.    WHEAT. 

Wheat  may  be  purchased  in  a  va- 
riety of  forms,  nearly  all  of  which  are 
very  palatable  and  nutritious.  The  old- 
fashioned  cracked  wheat  is  less  expen- 
sive and  quite  as  nutritious  and  palat- 
able as  any  other  way  of  serving.  As 
a  breakfast  cereal  for  four  or  five 
persons,  allow  ^  cup  of  cracked  wheat 
to  2yi  cups  of  water  and  1  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Put  into  a  double  boiler  the 
night  before  and  cook  the  same  as  steel 
cut  oatmeal  (see  No.  473).  Cracked 
wheat  and  steel  cut  oatmeal  cannot  be 
cooked  too  much  and  are  quite  as  good 
when   reheated. 


XXX 


Egfgs 


478.     BAKED    OR    SHIRRED. 


Use  small  cups  or  ramekin  dishes 
which  will  bear  oven  heat  and  in 
which  eggs  may  be  sent  to  the  table. 
Set  the  dishes  in  a  shallow  pan  and 
heat  in  the  oven.  Into  each  hot  dish, 
drop  J4  teaspoon  of  butter,  which 
should  at  once  melt  and  bubble;  break 
one  or  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  re- 
turn to  the  oven  for  5   minutes. 

When  the  white  is  nearly  set,  the 
egg  is  done.  The  heat  of  the  dish 
will  complete  the  cooking  by  the  time 
it  reaches  the  table.  A  small  saucer 
or  ramekin  plate  under  each  hot  dish 
will    protect   the   table. 

479.     BOILED   EGGS. 

As  mentioned  in  Chapter  III,  eggs 
being  largely  albuminous  should  be 
cooked  at  a  low  temperature  and  should 
not  be  cooked  too  hard.  If  cooked 
hard  at  all,  eggs  should  be  cooked  very 
hard  (about  20  minutes),  when  the 
yolks   will   be   "mealy." 

Soft  boiled  eggs  may  be  dropped  into 
boiling  water  and  boiled  from  2J^  to  4 
minutes  as  preferred;  they  are  more 
digestible,  however,  when  dropped  into 
boiling  water,  then  removed  at  once 
to  a  part  of  the  range  where  they  will 
not  boil  and  allowed  to  stand  from  5 
to   8   minutes.     When   thus   cooked,    for 


6  minutes,  they  are  like  eggs  cooked 
3  minutes  in  boiling  water;  8  minutes 
by  this  method  is  equivalent  to  cook- 
ing four  minutes  in  water  which  boils 
continually. 

480.     FRIED  EGGS. 

Eggs  may  be  fried  in  butter,  pork 
or  ham  fat,  or  in  clarified  beef  drip- 
pings. They  should  be  fried  two  at  a 
time  in  frying  pan  which  contains  four 
or  five  tablespoons  of  fat;  break  the 
eggs  carefully  into  the  pan  at  one 
side,  tip  the  pan  up  slightly  and  pour 
the  fat  gently  over  the  tops  of  eggs, 
using  a  spoon,  until  the  white  is  nearly 
set,  and  the  yolks  covered  with  a 
white  film.  Eggs  thus  fried  are  best 
and  are  about  like  3  minute  boiled 
eggs. 

481.     PLAIN   OMELET. 

Allow  one  egg  for  each  person,  and 
one  extra;  separate  yolks  from  whites, 
beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon 
colored,  and  the  whites  until  stiff  and 
dry,  adding  i^  teaspoon  of  salt  to  each 
four  whites,  before  beating,  and  a 
little  pepper  to  the  yolks;  also  add  to 
the  yolks  a  scant  tablespoon  of  boiling 
hot  water  for  each  egg."  Mix  15  min- 
utes before  serving,  adding  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  just  before  pouring  into 
a    smoking   hot   and    well    buttered   cast 


126 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


iron  frying  pan  of  good  size.  Allow 
to  cook  over  moderate  heat  for  about  10 
minutes,  covering  the  pan  with  a  tin 
cover.  When  omelet  is  well  set  and 
firm,  tip  the  pan  slightly,  loosen  the 
omelet  with  a  knife  and,  with  a  cake 
turner  or  broad  knife,  turn  one-half 
over  the  other.  Slip  the  turner  slightly 
under  the  folded  edge,  and  let  it  rest 
against  side  of  pan  to  hold  omelet  in 
place.  Set  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  five 
minutes,  then  serve  irnmediately  upon 
a   hot  platter. 

482.     FRENCH    OMELET. 

4  eggs. 

4  tablespoons    milk. 

y^,   teaspoon  salt. 

y%  teaspoon    pepper. 

2  tablespoons    butter. 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  just  enough  to 
blend  yolks  and  whites,  add  the  milk 
and  seasonings.  Put  butter  in  hot 
omelet  pan;  when  melted  turn  in  the 
mixture;  as  it  cooks,  prick  and  pick 
up  with  a  fork,  until  the  whole  is  of 
a  creamy  consistency.  Place  on  hot 
part  of  range  that  it  may  brown  quickly 
underneath;  fold  and  turn  upon  a  hot 
platter. — (Fannie    M.    Farmer.) 

483.  JELLY  OMELET. 

Currant  or  grape  jelly  may  be  spread 
lightly  upon  half  of  a  plain  or  French 
omelet  just  before   folding. 

484.  MEAT    OMELET. 

Chopped  ham,  veal,  beef  or  other 
meat,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  a  bit  of  melted  butter,  may  be 
piled  lightly  at  one  side  of  the  center 
of  a  plain  or  French  omelet  just  before 
folding;  or  the  meat  may  be  beaten 
quickly  into  the  omelet  just  before 
pouring  into  the  pan. 


485.     NUT    OMELET. 

Chopped  nuts  (pecans  or  peanuts 
preferred)  may  be  used  instead^  of 
chopped  meat  and  may  be  combined 
with  jelly  if  desired,  being  spread 
lightly  upon  the  omelet  just  before 
folding. 


486.     POACHED  EGGS. 

Break  fresh  eggs  carefully  into  a 
frying  pan  containing  boiling  water, 
about  one  inch  deep.  When  the  white 
is  set,  and  the  yolk  is  covered  with  a 
film,   the   egg   is   done. 

Egg  poachers  which  hold  the  egg  in 
place  and  from  which  the  egg  may 
easily  be  slipped  off,  are  a  convenience 
and  keep  the  egg  in  better  form.  If 
the  egg  poacher  is  not  used,  remove 
the  egg  as  carefully  as  possible,  using 
a  large  spoon  or  a  cake  turner. 

Serve  poached  eggs  upon  individual 
portions  of  hash  or  upon  well  buttered 
toast;  sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt  and 
add  a  bit  of  butter  while  the  egg  is 
hot. 


487.     SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

For  each  four  eggs,  allow  a  scant 
half  cup  of  milk,  J4  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  a  little  pepper.  Beat  eggs  12  or 
15  strokes  with  a  fork,  add  the  milk, 
salt  and  pepper.  Pour  into  a  hot  fry- 
ing pan  containing  a  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter and  a  tablespoon  of  clarified  beef 
drippings  (or  two  of  butter).  Stir  eggs 
constantly  and  as  soon  as  thickened, 
they  are  done.  If  heated  further,  they 
will  lose  their  creamy  consistency  and 
the   liquid   will   separate   from  them. 

Scrarnbled  eggs  may  be  served  upon 
toast  with  bacon  and  in  various  ways. 
They  are  nice  with  asparagus  tips. 


488.     CHOCOLATE. 


XXXI 


Beverages 


2  ounces  bitter  chocolate. 
4  tablespoons    sugar. 

1  cup    boiling    water. 

3  cups   milk. 

A   few   grains  of  salt  or   ]4   teaspoon 
vanilla    if    liked. 

Scald   the   milk;    melt  chocolate   in   a 


small  sauce  pan  held  over  hot  water; 
stir  in  sugar  and  add  hot  water  gradu- 
ally, beating  smooth.  Add  a  few 
spoons  of  the  hot  milk,  beat  well  and 
pour  the  chocolate  mixture  into  re- 
maining scalded  milk.  Heat  about  5 
minutes  while  stirring  and  beating. 
Pour  into  chocolate  pot  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 


THE   MONARCH   COOK    BOOK. 


127 


489.  PREPARED  COCOA. 

For  each  cup  of  milk  allow  1  even 
teaspoon  of  prepared  cocoa  and  lj4 
teaspoons  sugar.  Scald  the  milk;  mix 
sugar  and  cocoa  and  stir  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  a  few  spoons  of  the  hot 
milk  added  gradually;  pour  the  paste 
slowly  into  remaining  milk  and  allow 
to  just  come  to  a  boil. 

Yj  or  Yz   water  may  be  used. 

Cocoa  may  be  flavored  with  a  little 
vanilla  if  desired,  and  some  add  a  few 
grains   of   salt. 

For  rich  cocoa  use  all  milk  and  a 
rounding  or  a  heaping  teaspoon  of 
cocoa  and  2  teaspoons  of  sugar  for  each 
cup   of   milk. 

490.  COCOA    SHELLS. 

Cocoa  shells  and  cracked  cocoa  make 
very  wholesome  beverages  and  for  daily 
use  are  more  desirable  than  ground 
cocoa,  chocolate  or  coffee.  The  shells 
need  to  be  cooked  from  2  to  3  hours 
and  for  breakfast  should  be  partially 
cooked  the  evening  before.  Allow  1 
cup  of  shells  to  6  or  8  cups  of  water 
and    boil    gently. 

The  cracked  cocoa  needs  to  be  cooked 
nearly  as  long,  allowing  Yt  cup  to  6 
cups  of  water.  Strain  and  serve  in  a 
coffee  or  cocoa  pot,  and  serve  with 
milk   and   sugar. 

491.  BOILED  COFFEE. 

Coffee  should  always  be  purchased 
in  small  quantities  and  is  best  when 
home   ground   each   morning. 

Boiled  coffee  is  best  when  clarified 
with  egg.  One  egg  will  clarify  coffee 
for  two  or  three  persons  for  three 
mornings.  Break  a  small  hole  in  small 
end  of  egg  and  take  about  H  of  it. 
Set  remaining  egg  in  an  upright  posi- 
tion in  a  cool  place  for  the  second  and 
third  morning.  Crush  the  shell  and 
use  it  with  the  third  portion ;  or,  break 
the  egg  into  a  cup,  beat  slightly  and 
add  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water;  use 
this  mixture  for  3  or  4  mornings. 

Boiled  coffee  may  be  made  with 
either  cold  or  hot  water. 

With  Cold  Water. — Allow  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  medium  ground  coffee  for 
each  cup  desired  and  "one  for  the  pot," 
stir  coffee  and  egg  together  in  coffee 
pot.  Add  a  cup  of  cold  water,  stir 
well  again,  then  add  ^  cup  boiling 
water  for  each  heaping  spoon  of  coffee 
and  boil  8  or  10  minutes.     Add  J4  cup 


cold  water,  allow  to  stand  2  minutes 
where  it  will  not  boil,  and  serve  im- 
mediately. If  poured  into  another  pot, 
be  sure  to  warm  the  second  pot,  by 
rinsing  with  hot  water,  and  be  sure 
cups  have  been  in  the  warming  oven. 
Follow  directions  carefully  and  be  sure 
all    utensils    are   perfectly    clean. 

Vienna  or  "German"  coffee  is  one 
way  of  serving  either  boiled  or  drip 
coffee.  For  Vienna  coffee,  fill  warmed 
cup  nearly  Ys  full  of  milk  which  has 
been  scalded  to  boiling  point,  then  fill 
cup  with  coffee  and  cap  with  a  table- 
spoon  of   stiffly   whipped   cream. 

492.     DRIP    COFFEE. 

For  Drip  or  French  coffee  have  the 
coffee  pulverized  and  use  a  close 
grained,  strong  cloth  strainer.  Fit  the 
strainer  into  place;  use  an  even  or 
heaping  tablespoon  of  the  pulverized 
coffee  (according  to  strength  desired) 
for  each  cup  of  boiling  water;  pour 
the  water  over  the  coffee  and  cover, 
following  directions,  according  to  the 
style  of  pot  used;  as  soon  as  it  has 
dripped  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

493.     TEA. 

There  is  but  one  way  to  make  tea, 
and  each  detail  should  be  carefully  ob- 
served each  and  every  time.  Have 
freshly  boiled  water;  just  before  the 
water  boils,  fill  the  tea  pot  from  the 
kettle;  when  pot  is  heated  through,, 
pour  water  from  it  and,  leaving  the 
cover  off,  set  it  upon  the  back  of  the 
stove  to  dry  out;  just  as  the  water  in 
tea  kettle  boils,  put  tea  into  the  pot, 
allowing  an  even  teaspoon  of  tea  for 
each  cup  of  water  (or  vary  as  desired). 
Allow  to  stand  in  a  warm  place  where 
it  will  not  boil  about  5  minutes;  when 
thus  infused,  serve  at  once.  If  made 
at  the  table,  cover  tea  pot  with  a  well 
padded    cozy    while    tea    is    infused. 

It  seems  needless  to  say  that  both 
tea  and  coffee  pot  should  be  thoroughly 
cleansed,  rinsed,  dried  and  aired  imme- 
diately after  each  using.  The  custom 
of  allowing  tea  or  coffee  to  stand  in 
the  pot,  adding  more  when  more  is 
needed,  is  not  only  unwholesome  but 
poisonous. 

494.     ICED   COFFEE.' 

Make  a  strong  coffee,  dilute  with 
cold  water  as  desired  and  add  ice,  or 
better,  set  into  the  ice  box  for  several 


128 


THE   MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


hours;  serve  with  cream  and  sugar, 
or  clear  with  a  slice  of  lemon  in  each 
glass. 

495.     ICED  TEA. 

Make  strong  tea,  dilute  as  desired 
with  cold  water,  chill  in  ice  box,  or 
by  adding  ice,  and  serve  with  a  ^ 
inch  slice  of  lemon  to  each  glass. 
English  Breakfast  tea  (preferably  Mon- 
soon)   is  best   for   serving    cold. 

496.     GINGER   PUNCH. 

1  quart   cold   water. 

1  cup    sugar. 

J^  pound  preserved  Canton  ginger. 

Yi   cup  orange  juice. 

Yz   cup   lemon   juice. 

Chop  ginger,  add  to  water  and  sugar, 
and  boil  15  minutes;  add  fruit  juice, 
cool,  strain  and  dilute  with  crushed 
ice. — (Fannie   M.   Farmer.) 

497.     GRAPE  JUICE. 

There  is  nothing  more  refreshing  or 
more  wholesome  as  a  cooling  summer 
beverage,  than  unfermented  grape  juice 
(see  No.  553).  About  J^  of  a  glass  of 
grape  juice  to  ^  of  a  glass  of  water 
is  the  usual  strength. 

498.     LEMONADE. 

3  large   lemons. 

Yi  pound   loaf   sugar. 

1  pint    boiling   water. 

Cold  water  about  1  quart. 

Wipe  the  lemons  and  rub  the  loat 
sugar  over  the  rinds  to  extract  the 
lemon  "zest."  Cut  lemons  and  squeeze 
juice  upon  the  sugar;  cut  what  remains 
of  the  lemons  into  slices  and  pour 
upon  them  the  boiling  water;  when 
this  has  cooled,  strain  it  upon  the  juice 
and  sugar  and  add  cold  water  until  of 


the  strength  desired  (about  1  quart 
will  probably  be  correct).  Chill  and 
serve. 

The  juice  from  preserved  blue  plums, 
red  raspberries,  cherries  or  currants, 
or  a  little  curant  jelly,  grape  juice  or 
fruit  syrup  (see  Nos.  553  to  557)  gives 
a  pleasant  variety. 

499.     COFFEE   LEMONADE. 

Coffee  saved  from  the  breakfast  pot 
may  be  strained  and  used  instead  of 
water,  or  with  water,  in  making  lemon- 
ade. 

500.  RHUBARB   PUNCH. 

Pour  1  quart  of  boiling  water  upon 
3  cups  of  rhubarb  which  has  been 
washed,  stripped  and  cut  into  one  inch 
pieces.  Allow  to  stand  until  cool,  then 
crush  with  potato  masher,  strain,  add 
cold  water  as  desired,  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  a  little  ground  ginger  and  a 
little  sugar.  Chill  and  serve.  This  is 
a  very  wholesome,  refreshing  summer 
beverage. 

501.  VINEGAR    WAIER. 

Three  or  four  tablespoons  vinegar  to 
a  quart  of  water,  Ya  teaspoon  of  ground 
ginger  arid  4  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
chilled,  is  a  pleasant  and  wholesome 
summer    drink. 

502.  OATMEAL   PUNCH. 

This  is  a  wholesome,  nourishing  bev- 
erage and  may  be  served  cold  in  sum- 
mer or  hot  in  winter.  Use  Y\  pound 
of  steel  cut  oatmeal  or  rolled  oats,  and 
boil  3  hours  in  3  quarts  of  water;  if 
too  thick  when  thoroughly  cooked,  add 
more  water;  sweeten  with  IJ/2  ounces 
light  brown  sugar.  Do  not  strain,  but 
stir   before    drinking. 


xxxn 

Fruits 


For  health  use  more — ^best  for  breakfast. 


503.     WAYS    OF    SERVING. 

Fresh  fruits,  the  larger  sliced,  some- 
titnes  sprinkled  with  sugar,  chilled  and 
allowed  to  stand  half  an  hour  before 
serving,  are  always  wholesome  desserts. 
Cream,   whipped   or  plain,   and   a   plain 


cake     are     acceptable     additions     when 
served    for    dessert. 

Almost  any  fruit  combines  with 
boiled  rice  or  tapioca  to  make  attract- 
ive and  palatable  desserts,  usually 
served  with  cream  (see  No.  334). 


THE  MONARCH    COOK   BOOK. 


129 


504.     BANANA   SALAD. 

Strip    the    skins    from    bananas    and 

arrange     individual     salads     by  laying 

bananas    (either  whole  or  cut  in  halves 

lengthwise)    upon   lettuce   leaves.  Drop 

a   tablespoon    of   Mayonnaise   or  Boiled 
Dressing  upon  each  banana. 


SOS. 


BANANA  AND  ORANGE 
SALAD. 


Peel  and  slice  oranges;  peel  bananas, 
cut  into  halves  lengthwise,  and  divide 
across  into  fourths.  Thoroughly  chill 
the  fruit;  arrange  a  circle  of  orange 
slices  overlapping  each  other  upon  let- 
tuce leaves,  arrange  the  four  pieces 
of  banana  in  the  center  of  orange 
slices  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  Mayon- 
naise  or   Boiled    Salad    dressing. 

506.     APPLE  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

Pare  apples  and  cut  into  J4  inch 
dice;  break  pecan  nut  meats  into 
eighths,  allowing  H  cup  of  meats  to  a 
cup  of  apple  dice;  mix  apple  and  nuts 
and  for  each  cup  and  a  half  of  the 
mixture  allow  2  tablespoons  of  Mayon- 
naise or  Boiled  Salad  Dressing,  stir- 
ring lightly  with  a  fork;  arrange  in  a 
mound  upon  lettuce  leaves,  pour  a  little 
Mayonnaise  upon  the  top  and  serve 
more,   separately. 


507.  ORANGE  AND  PINEAPPLE 
SALAD. 

Use  equal  parts  of  seeded  oranges, 
cut  into  small  pieces,  the  white  part 
being  carefully  removed  and  sliced  and 
drained  pineapple  (if  in  winter  canned 
pineapple  may  be  used).  Cover  with 
Orange  Dressing  to  which,  while  still 
hot  enough  to  stiffen  it,  the  well  beaten 
white  of  one  egg  has  been  added.  When 
thoroughly  cold,  serve  in  the  halves 
of  orange  peel  with  a  garnish  of  green. 
If  preferred,  one-third  sliced  banana 
may  be  used  with  the  orange  and  pine- 
apple.— (Mrs.    E.    E.    Kellogg,   A.    M.) 

508.     ORANGE  DRESSING. 

1  cup  orange  juice. 

1  tablespoon    lemon    juice. 

Sugar. 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch. 

Heat  the  juice  to  boiling  and  thicken 
with  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch. 
Sweeten  with  1  to  3  tablespoons  sugar, 
according  to  acidity  of  fruit.  If  it  is 
preferred  not  to  boil  the  orange  juice, 
the  cornstarch  may  be  cooked  in  J^ 
cup  of  water  and  while  still  hot  enough 
to  mingle  well,  the  orange  and  lemon 
juice  is  added.  Beat  the  sauce  thor- 
oughly that  it  may  be  smooth;  other- 
wise it  must  be  strained.  Thickening 
may  be  omitted  if  preferred. 


XXXIII 
Cooked  Fruits 


509.     BAKED   APPLES. 

Select  apples  of  uniform  size,  with- 
out blemishes  if  possible.  Either  quite 
tart  or  "sweet"  apples  are  best  for 
baking.  Wipe  and  core,  arrange  in 
shallow  pan,  fill  centers  with  light 
brown  sugar  mixed  with  a  little  cinna- 
mon or  nutmeg  if  liked.  Pour  a  very 
little  boiling  water  into  bottom  of  pan 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  ten- 
der. 

510.     APPLES  IN  SYRUP. 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  equal  parts 
of  sugar  and  water,  allowing  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water  to  six 
medium  sized  apples.  Cook  syrup  6  or 
7  minutes  in  a  sauce  pan  large  enough 
to  allow  apples  to  rest  side  by  side 
on  bottom  of  dish;  pare  and  core  apples 


and  put  at  once  into  the  syrup.  Cocfk 
until  just  tender.  Have  syrup  in  a 
small  sized  dish,  if  possible,  that  apples 
may  be  well  covered.  Use  remaining 
syrup  as  a  sauce  to  pour  around  the 
fruit.  Blanched  almonds,  cut  into 
halves  lengthwise,  and  thrust  half  way 
into  sides  of  apples  are  attractive  and 
palatable. 

SIL  APPLES  IN  GRAPE  JUICE. 

Cook  gently  2  cups  of  grape  juice 
and  a  cup  of  sugar.  When  reduced 
one-third,  pare  and  core  six  medium 
sized  apples  and  cook  very  slowly  in 
the  grape  juice  until  just  tender.  Serve 
apples  cold  in  a  glass  dish,  using  syrup 
as  a  sauce;  boil  the  latter  a  trifle  more 
if  not  thick  enough.  Garnish  with 
whipped  cream  if  desired. 


130 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


512.     LEMON   APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  tart  apples  of  medium 
size;  fill  centers  with  ^  cup  sugar, 
mixed  with  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  a 
lemon.  Squeeze  juice  of  the  lemon 
over  tops  of  apples  and  bake  until  just 
tender.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  if 
desired. 

513.  LEMON  APPLE  SAUCE. 

_  Pare,  core  and  quarter  apples  (six  or 
eight)  and  cook  in  a  syrup  made  of  2 
cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  water  and  the 
grated  yellow  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 
Cook  syrup  7  or  8  minutes  before  put- 
ting in  the  apples.  Cook  pieces  of 
apple  a  few  at  a  time  and  skim  out  as 
soon  as  tender.  Pour  syrup  over 
apples;   cool  and  serve. 

514.  SPICED  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  six  or  eight 
apples,  cover  in  a  sauce  pan  with  a 
cup  of  light  brown  sugar,  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  ground  cinnamon  or  a  few 
small  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon  and 
cook  until  apples  are  soft.  Stir,  cool 
and  serve. 

Six  or  eight  cloves  may  be  added  in- 
stead   of   the    cinnamon    if   preferred. 


coarse  wire  strainer  and  while  hot,  add 
2  cups  of  sugar.  Stir  until  sugar  is 
thoroughly  dissolved,  reheating  slightly 
if  necessary,  but  do  not  boil  again. 
Chill   in   moulds. 

517.     CRANBERRY    SAUCE. 

Cook  2  cups  of  cranberries  and  2 
cups  of  boiling  water  5  or  6  minutes 
after  they  begin  to  boil;  add  a  cup  and 
a  half  of  sugar,  allow  to  boil  up  and 
cool   at   once;    do   not   boil   long. 

518.     BAKED   PEARS. 

Wipe  small,  sound  pears,  or,  if  large, 
cut  into  halves  and  remove  core.  Cover 
pears  with  light  brown  sugar  in  a  shal- 
low pan;  add  a  very  small  quantity  of 
hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until   tender    (from    1   to   3   hours). 

519.     STEWED    PRUNES. 

Wash  prunes,  and  soak  several  hours 
in  cold  water  to  cover.  Cook  slowly 
in  water  in  which  they  were  soaked, 
adding  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  for  each 
cup  of  prunes;  when  tender,  add  a  few 
slices  of  lemon,  cook  15  minutes  longer, 
cool  and  serve,  preferably  as  the  first 
course   for   breakfast. 


515.  STEWED  APRICOTS. 

Pare_  and  quarter  apricots  and  cook 
five  minutes  in  a  syrup  made  as  for 
Lemon  Apple  Sauce,  omitting  the 
lemon. 

BAKED  BANANAS. 
(See  Nos.  297  and  298.) 

516.  CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Cook  one  quart  of  cranberries  in  one 
cup  of  boiling  water  10  minutes  or 
until    berries    burst;     press    through    a 


520.     STEAMED    RHUBARB. 

Strip  rhubarb  and  cut  into  Yz  inch 
lengths,  put  into  a  wire  basket  or  colan- 
der set  into  a  deep  plate  and  steam 
until  rhubarb  is  tender.  Remove  rhu- 
barb to  a  deep  bowl,  sprinkle  over  J^ 
cup  of  light  brown  sugar,  to  a  quart  of 
rhubarb,  pour  over  the  juice  which  has 
dripped  into  deep  plate,  cool  and  serve 
as   a   sauce,    preferably   for  breakfast. 

BAKED   RHUBARB. 
(See  No.  300.) 


XXXIV 
Canning:  and  Preserving: 


521.     GENERAL  DIRECTIONS. 

For  canning  or  preserving,  use  only 
sound  fruit  which  has  just  barely 
ripened,  never  over  ripe,  and  not  green, 
unless    green    fruit    be    called    for. 


In  paring  fruit,  use  a  silver  knife; 
dividing  and  stoning  can  be  done  best 
before  paring. 

Fruit  should  be  cooked  enough  to 
destroy  germs,  but  not  enough  to  de- 
stroy the  natural  fruit  flavor  or  to  give 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


131 


a  mushy  appearance;  steaming  the  fruit 
in  jars,  and  then  adding  the  syrup  is 
usually  to   be   preferred. 

Jars,  covers  and  rubbers  should  be 
thoroughly  sterilized.  Put  jars  into  a 
large  pot  or  wash  boiler  containing 
cold  water  to  cover.  This  should  be 
done  an  hour  or  more  before  ready 
to  put  fruit  into  jars.  When  water 
has  boiled  a  few  moments,  set  boiler 
upon  back  of  range  and  cover.  Then 
put  on  syrup  to  cook,  and  jars  will  be 
thoroughly  sterilized  when  ready  for 
use.  Ten  minutes  before  needed,  put 
covers  of  jars  into  a  kettle,  cover  with 
hot  water  and  allow  to  come  to  a  boil. 
Hold  each  cover  to  the  light  and  dis- 
card any  that  show  "pin  holes."  Jars 
with  glass  or  porcelain  lined  covers  are 
best. 

Dip  each  rubber  into  boiling  water 
before    putting    upon    the    jar. 

When  syrup  and  fruit  are  ready, 
have  a  large  deep  pan  (bread  or  dish 
pan)  conveniently  placed;  have  ready 
plenty  of  clean  linen  cloths;  when  a 
jar  is  to  be  filled,  remove  from  the 
boiling  hot  water,  using  a  long  handled 
knife  or  a  clean  stick,  dip  a  cloth  into 
the  boiling  water  and  drop  into  bottom 
of  pan;  dip  another  in  the  boiling  water 
and  wrap  around  the  hot  jar  which  has 
been  set  upon  the  first  hot  cloth;  see 
that  the  cloth  covers  jar  entirely;  use 
a  wide  mouthed  funnel  and  pour  syrup 
or  fruit  and  syrup  through  funnel  into 
center  of  jar;  use  a  long  silver  knife 
for  pressing  fruit  away  from  the  sides 
of  jar  to  allow  escape  of  air  bubbles; 
see  that  jar  is  filled  full;  wipe  seeds 
or  fruit  from  outside  of  top;  dip  rubber 
in  hot  water,  slip  it  into  place  and 
screw  on  quickly  the  sterilized  cover.  Set 
jars  where  no  draft  of  air  can  strike 
them.  When  cool,  tighten  the  covers 
and  turn  jars  upside  down.  After  sev- 
eral hours,  tighten  covers  again  if  not 
perfectly  tight,  and  dip  tops  of  jars 
in  melted  paraffine,  covering  well  the 
rubbers  and  edges  of  covers.  This 
often  prevents  entrance  of  air  resulting 
from  imperfect  covers  or  subsequent 
pin  holes. 

If  above  precautions  are  taken,  most 
fruit  will  keep  almost  indefinitely. 
Canned  fruit  should  be  kept  in  a  dark 
closet  where  the  temperature  is  mod- 
erately cool  and  as  even  as  possible. 

522.     TO  STEAM  FRUIT. 

Steaming  fruit  in  the  cans  and  then 
adding    syrup,    if    thoroughly    done,    de- 


stroys germs  efficiently,  keeps  the  fruit 
tender  and  preserves  natural  flavors 
and  is  therefore  preferred  by  many. 
The  fruit  is  quite  as  easily  handled  in 
this  way  as  in  any  other. 

To  steam  the  fruit,  berries  should 
be  carefully  picked  over  and  should  be 
firm  and  just  ripe;  peaches  should  be 
cut  in  halves,  stoned  and  pared,  filling 
the  sterilized  jars  as  fast  as  the  fruit 
is  prepared  to  prevent  action  of  air 
upon  it;  cherries  may  be  pitted,  also 
plums.  The  stones  of  cherries,  peaches, 
etc.,  should  be  cooked  in  the  syrup,  then 
skimmed  out  to  add  piquancy  to  the 
flavor. 

Fill  the  sterilized  jars  with  fruit, 
shaking  down  well  and  packing  as  full 
as  possible  without  crushing;  screw 
on  covers  lightly  to  keep  out  water, 
but  do  not  screw  tight  or  put  on  rub- 
bers; set  jars  into  wash  boiler  or 
large  pots,  having  a  grate,  inverted 
plates,  sticks  or  some  protection  in  the 
bottom  to  prevent  jars  from  breaking; 
leave  an  inch  between  jars  (small  blocks 
of  wood  placed  between  the  jars  is  a 
help  as  they  may  then  be  packed  firmly, 
yet  without  any  pressure).  Fill  boiler 
or  pot  with  warm  water  (not  hot) 
nearly  to  tops  of  jars.  Allow  water 
to  come  to  a  boil  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes  or  until  fruit  is  certainly  well 
heated  through  at  the  boiling  tempera- 
ture. Then  remove  jars  from  water, 
set  into  pan  upon  a  hot  cloth,  wrap 
a  hot  cloth  around  the  jar,  remove 
cover,  fill  the  jar  with  syrup  prepared 
as  directed  for  each  fruit;  press  fruit 
away  from  sides  with  silver  knife  to 
allow  air  bubbles  to  escape;  see  that 
jar  is  filled  heaping  full.  Dip  rubber 
in  boiling  water,  slip  into  place  and 
screw  on  sterilized  cover.  Wipe  and 
set  aside,  away  from  drafts. 

523.     SYRUP   FOR  CANNING. 

A  syrup  _  suitable  for  canning  nearly 
any  fruit  is  made  as  follows: — Weigh 
the  fruit  before  cooking;  take  sugar 
to  equal  one-third  the  weight  of  the 
fruit,  put  into  a  large  porcelain  or 
porcelain  lined  kettle,  allowing  2  or 
2H  cups  of  hot  water  to  each  pound 
of  sugar,  according  to  amount  of  fruit 
juice.  Stir  slightly  to  start  dissolving 
of  sugar  and  cook  ten  minutes  after 
the  syrup  boils.  It  is  then  ready  for 
use,  either  for  pouring  into  jars  filled 
with  steamed  fruit,  or  for  receiving 
fruit  which  is  to  be  cooked  in  it,  if 
the  latter  method  is  to  be  followed. 


132 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


524.     COOKING    IN    SYRUP. 

If  preferred  to  cook  fruit  in  the 
syrup  rather  than  to  steam  in  the  jars 
as  described  in  No.  522,  cook  the  fruit 
15  minutes  in  the  syrup.  Do  not  cook 
all  the  fruit  at  once,  but  put  in  only 
two  or  three  quarts  at  a  time.  When 
cooked,  take  a  sterilized  jar  and  wrap 
in  a  hot  cloth  as  described  in  No.  521; 
dip  up  fruit  with  a  porcelain  dipper, 
taking  as  little  juice  as  possible;  pour 
through  wide  mouthed  funnel  into  jar 
and  proceed  until  jar  is  full  of  fruit; 
use  silver  knife  and  press  fruit  back 
from  side  of  jar  to  let  out  air  bubbles; 
see  that  jar  is  made  heaping  full,  by 
adding  a  little  more  syrup;  wipe  away 
any  seeds  or  bits  of  fruit  from  outside 
of  top,  slip  sterilized  rubber  into  place, 
quickly  screw  on  cover,  wipe  jar  and 
set  aside  away   from   drafts. 

Quinces,  pears  or  any  hard  fruit  may 
be  partly  cooked  in  boiling  water  be- 
fore cooking  in  the  syrup  if  desired. 
Pineapple,  however,  should  be  cooked 
only  in  the  syrup,  15  or  20  minutes  be- 
ing sufficient  if  the  pineapple  is  just 
ripe.  Previous  cooking  in  boiling  water 
causes  too  much  loss  of  juice  and 
flavor. 

In  canning  cherries  or  peaches  by 
this  method,  put  the  stones  into  sugar 
and  water  while  syrup  is  cooking.  Skim 
out  the  stones  before  adding  fruit. 

Berries  need  only  to  be  thoroughly 
heated  through  (8  or  10  minutes); 
handle  and  cook  as  carefully  as  pos- 
sible to   prevent  crushing. 

It  is  better  to  overcook  than  under- 
cook so  far  as  keeping  is  concerned; 
the  only  danger  in  overcooking  is  that 
fruit  becomes  too  much  broken  for 
good  appearance. 


of  berries.  Be  sure  to  shake  down 
well  and  have  jar  heaping  full.  Put  on 
rubbers  and  covers  (not  screwed  tight), 
set  into  boiler,  and  steam  as  directed 
in  No.  522.  Cook  after  water  boils 
until  sugar  has  dissolved  and  juice  is 
drawn  out  enough  to  form  a  syrup. 
Remove  from  kettle,  screw  covers  on 
tight  without  uncovering,  wipe  jars  and 
turn  upside  down  to  cool.  When 
cooled,  be  sure  covers  are  tight  and 
dip  tops  of  jars  into  a  dish  of  melted 
paraffine.  Be  sure  to  dip  beyond  edges 
of   covers   and   rubbers. 


527.      CANNED    BLACKBERRIES. 

Follow  directions  as  given  for  blue- 
berries  in  Nos.    525    or   526. 

528.     CANNED  RASPBERRIES. 

For  either  red  or  black  raspberries 
follow  directions  in  Nos.  525  or  526,  or 
pick  over  berries,  weigh,  make  a  syrup, 
cook  and  can  as  directed  in  No.  524. 

529.     CANNED   GOOSEBERRIES. 

Gooseberries  may  be  canned  like 
blueberries,  see  Nos.  525  and  526.  Al- 
low a  cup  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of 
gooseberries. 

530.     CANNED    CHERRIES. 

The  large  white  or  dark  cherries  may 
be  used  but  large  "sour"  cherries  have 
the  best  flavor.  Stem  the  cherries, 
wash  by  holding  in  colander  under 
running  water,  and  can  as  directed  in 
No.  524.  If  cherries  are  pitted,  cook 
stones  with  the  syrup,  then  skim  out 
before  adding  fruit. 


525.     CANNED   BLUEBERRIES. 

Carefully  pick  over  berries  and  wash 
by  holding  in  a  colander  under  running 
water.  Fill  sterilized  jars  and  steam  as 
directed  in  No.  522.  Shake  down  and 
have  jars  as  full  as  possible.  Cook  10 
minutes  after  water  boils,  then  fill  with 
syrup    as   directed    in    No.    521. 


526. 


CANNED  BLUEBERRIES 
WITHOUT  SYRUP. 


Fill  sterilized  jars  with  blueberries 
and  while  filling,  sprinkle  in  sugar, 
allowing  J^   cup  of  sugar  to  each  quart 


531.     CANNED     PEACHES. 

Cut  in  halves,  remove  stones,  pare 
and  weigh.  Follow  directions  as  in 
Nos,    521   or   524. 

532,     CANNED   PEARS. 

Select  pears  which  are  just  ripe,  but 
perfectly  sound,  not  soft.  Using  a 
silver  knife,  cut  into  fourths,  core  and 
pare,  then  weigh  and  cover  with  cold 
water  to  prevent  discoloration  while 
filling  jars.  Cook  in  syrup  as  directed 
in  No.  524,  handling  fruit  as  carefully 
as  possible.  Cook  until  pears  look  clear 
and   are   tender,   dip   out   fruit  and   fill 


THE  MONARCH   COOK  BOOK. 


133 


sterilized  jars,  first  putting  in  a  very 
little  syrup,  then  packing  jars  with  the 
fruit;  when  no  more  fruit  can  be 
added,  fill  the  jar  to  overflo\ving  with 
syrup.  Cover,  cool,  etc.,  as  directed  in 
No.  521.  If  pears  are  of  a  hard  va- 
riety, they  should  be  first  steamed  until 
nearly  tender  before  putting  into  the 
hot  syrup.  If  pears  are  very  sweet  or 
not  very  highly  flavored,  add  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon  to  each  quart  of  syrup. 

533.     CANNED    PINEAPPLE. 

Select  pineapples  at  the  height  of 
their  season,  having  them  just  ripe. 
Pare  and  remove  "eyes,"  cut  into  ^ 
inch  slices,  then  into  Yz  inch  dice; 
weigh,  make  a  syrup  and  can  as  di- 
rected in  No.   524. 


534.     CANNED    RHUBARB. 

Have  the  rhubarb  freshly  gathered. 
Strip  off  outer  skin  and  cut  into  1  inch 
lengths;  fill  perfectly  clean  glass  jars 
with  the  cut  rhubarb,  shaking  down 
and  packing  well;  set  the  jars  one  by 
one  into  a  stream  of  running  water, 
allowing  the  water  to  run  into  each  jar 
for  20  minutes;  do  not  have  force  of 
water  too  great  as  that  causes  bubbles. 
At  the  end  of  20  minutes,  slip  in  knife 
and  drive  out  bubbles;  see  that  jar 
is  filled  to  overflowing  with  water,  put 
on  a  new  rubber,  screw  on  a  perfectly 
clean  cover,  seal  by  dipping  into  melted 
parafiine.  Rhubarb  thus  canned  keeps 
the  garden  flavor  and  may  be  used  all 
winter  the  same  as  fresh  rhubarb. 


535.     CANNED     TOMATOES. 

Freshly  gathered  tomatoes  just  ripe 
but  not  at  all  soft,  should  be  selected 
for  canning.  Skin  the  tomatoes  by 
pouring  over  boiling  water  and  drop 
into  cold  water  for  a  few  moments 
when  skins  are  removed.  Cut  tomatoes 
into  fourths  and  allow  to  stand  20  or 
30  minutes  in  a  porcelain  kettle  until 
a  large  portion  of  the  juice  has  drained 
off.  Then  pack  carefully  in  perfect, 
thoroughly  cleansed  glass  jars.  Allow 
to  stand  another  half  hour,  tip  up 
jars  and  drain  out  as  much  juice  as 
possible,  adding  a  few  more  pieces  of 
drained  tomatoes  to  fill  the  jars.  Screw 
tops  in  place,  omitting  rubbers,  and 
pack  the  jars  into  a  large  pot  or  boiler 
with  racks  underneath.  Do  not  allow 
the    jars    to    touch    each    other;     small 


blocks  of  wood  between  will  be  con- 
venient. Fill  boiler  nearly  to  tops  of 
jars  with  cold  water,  heat  and  allow 
to  boil  for  two  hours;  remove  jars  from 
boiler,  take  off  covers,  put  on  rubbers 
which  have  been  dipped  in  boiling 
water,  replace  covers  immediately  and 
screw  tight.  Cool,  tignten  covers  again 
and   seal   with   parafiine. 

536.     DAMSON  PLUMS. 

Select  sound,  ripe  Damsons,  wash, 
drain  and  weigh.  Allow  ^  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  pound  of  plums  and  make 
a  syrup  by  bringing  sugar  to  a  boll 
with  water,  allowing  a  cup  of  water 
to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Divide  the 
syrup  in  two  kettles,  keeping  one  back 
a  little.  When  syrup  boils,  skim  and 
add  part  of  the  plums  which  have  been 
pricked  twice  with  a  steel  fork.  Cook 
until  plums  are  tender,  pack  sterilized 
jars  nearly  full  of  fruit,  fill  to  over- 
flowing with  the  syrup,  put  rubbers  in 
place,  cover,  cool  and  seal  as  directed 
in  No.  52L  Continue  cooking  plums  a 
few  at  a  time,  bringing  forward  the 
second  kettle  of  syrup  when  needed. 
(Any  extra  syrup  may  be  canned  the 
same  as  fruit  and  kept  for  lemonade, 
fruit   sauces,   etc.) 


537. 


PRESERVED  STRAW- 
BERRIES. 


Select  rich  berries  which  are  just 
ripe  ad  sound;  do  not  use  imperfect 
fruit.  Hull  and  wash  the  berries, 
weigh  and  fill  sterilized  jars.  Have 
ready  a  syrup  made  by  allowing  Y^ 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  ber- 
ries and  a  cup  of  water  to  each  pound 
of  sugar.  When  syrup  has  boiled  15 
minutes,  skim  and  pour  over  fruit  in 
the  jars,  until  jars  are  brimming  full. 
Allow  to  stand  uncovered  for  15  min- 
utes. Then  add  more  berries,  fill  jars 
as  full  as  possible  as  the  fruit  shrinks 
when  syrup  is  added.  Having  added 
more  fruit  until  jars  are  overflowing, 
put  in  place  rubbers  which  have  been 
dipped  in  boiling  water,  screw  on  steril- 
ized covers  and  arrange  jars  of  fruit  in 
a  large  pot  or  boiler  with  racks  or 
plates  under  the  jars.  Fill  boiler  to 
tops  of  jars  with  cold  water,  and  allow 
to  heat  until  nearly  boiling  hot.  Keep 
just  below  boiling  point  for  an  hour, 
remove  jars,  wipe,  set  aside  where  no 
draft  can  strike  them.  When  cool, 
tighten   covers   and   seal   with   parafiine. 


134 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


538.  TOMATO   PRESERVE. 

For  each  pound  of  yellow  pear  to- 
matoes, allow  one  pound  of  sugar,  2 
ounces  preserved  Canton  ginger  and  2 
small  lemons  (or  one  large).  Skin 
tomatoes  by  pouring  on  hot  water,  cover 
with  sugar  in  an  earthen  or  porcelain 
bowl  and  allow  to  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  pour  off  syrup,  remove 
tomatoes  to  another  dish,  scrape  out 
sugar  which  has  settled  at  the  bottom, 
adding  to  syrup.  Boil  syrup  until  quite 
thick,  skim,  add  tomatoes,  ginger  and 
lemons  which  have  been  wiped  and  cut 
into  ys  inch  half  slices  (remove  seeds 
from  lemons).  Cook  all  until  toma- 
toes look  somewhat  clear,  then  fill 
sterilized  jars,  put  in  place  rubbers 
dipped  in  hot  water,  screw  on  sterilized 
covers;  cool,  tighten  covers  and  seal 
with  paraffine. 

539.  CITRON     PRESERVES. 

Pare  off  rinds,  seed,  cut  into  thin 
slices  2  inches  long,  weigh,  and  put 
into  preserving  kettle  with  water  to 
cover.  Boil  one  hour,  take  out  the 
melon  and  to  the  water  in  kettle  add 
as  much  sugar  as  there  is  melon  by 
weight;  boil  until  quite  thick,  replace 
melon,  add  lemons  sliced  and  seeded, 
allowing  2  for  each  pound  of  fruit; 
boil  20  minutes,  skim  out  fruit  and  con- 


tinue boiling  syrup  until  it  is  quite 
thick;  have  fruit  packed  into  sterilized 
jars,  pour  the  syrup  over  it,  cover  and 
seal. 

540.     PRESERVED  WATER  MELON 
RIND. 

Trim  away  red  center,  wash,  cut  and 
prepare  water  melon  rind  as  directed 
for    Preserved    Citron. 

541.  BARBERRY  PRESERVES. 

One  pound  sugar  and  1  cup  water  to 
each  pound  of  barberries  which  have 
been  stemmed  and  washed.  Cook  untl 
syrup  is  quite  thick  (about  2  hours) 
and  seal  in  sterilized  jars  as  directed 
for  canned  fruits.  Very  nice  with 
meats. 

542.  BLACK    CURRANT    PRE- 

SERVE. 

Stem,  pick  off  the  dry  blossoms  and 
wash  black  currants.  For  each  pound 
of  fruit  add  1  pound  of  sugar  and  J4 
cup  of  raspberry  juice  (squeezed  from 
fresh  raspberries) ;  boil  together  in  a 
porcelain  kettle  for  10  or  15  minutes 
after  boiling  begins;  stir  to  dissolve 
sugar.  Fill  sterilized  fruit  jars,  cover 
arid   seal   as  directed   for  canning. 


XXXV 
Jellies  and  Marmalades 


543.     DIRECTIONS   FOR  MAKING 
JELLY. 

Use  freshly  gathered  fruit  which  is 
just  barely  ripe.  Fruit  that  is  the 
least  bit  overripe  will  not  make  good 
jelly.  Reject  worm-eaten  or  unsound 
fruit. 

One  or  two  jelly  bags  will  be  needed 
and  should  be  made  from  coarse  cot- 
ton and  wool  flannel  or  coarse,  strong 
linen  crash.  Sew  up  a  three-cornered 
piece,  cornucopia  shape,  rounding  bag 
at  the  bottom  and  trimming  off  the 
point;  turn  and  sew  again.  Hem  the 
top  and  run  in  a  strong  wire  to  keep 
bag  open,  also  attach  3  or  4  loops  by 
which  bag  may  be  hung  above  a  dish. 

Bag  should  be  wrung  out  in  hot 
water  before  putting  in  fruit  to  drip; 
the  latter  should  be  added  a  small  quan- 


tity at  a  time.  Work  it  through  with  a 
spoon  and  squeeze  juice  from  pulp  un- 
less particularly  clear  jelly  is  desired. 
In  the  latter  case,  allow  to  drip  without 
squeezing.  For  economy,  two  grades 
of  jelly  may  be  made,  clear  jelly 
being  from  juice  allowed  to  drip  with- 
out squeezing,  and  a  second  grade  may 
be  made  from  juice  obtained  by  squeez- 
ing out  all  that  can  be  obtained  from 
remaining  pulp.  Strain  a  small  quan- 
tity at  a  time  and  remove  pulp  from 
bag  before  adding  more. 

Jelly  is  nicer  when  juices  are  cooked 
first,  separate  from  the  sugar.  Crush 
fruit  thoroughly  in  porcelain  kettle, 
using  potato  masher.  Boil  3  or  4 
quarts  or  less  at  a  time  in  a  wide, 
open  kettle  before  adding  the  sugar. 
Cook  unsweetened  juice  about  20  min- 
utes from  the  time  it  bubbles  well.     It 


THE   MONARCH   COOK  BOOK. 


135 


should  thicken  when  a  drop  is  placed 
upon  a  cool  plate.  While  juice  is  heat- 
ing, spread  sugar  in  shallow  pans,  al- 
lowing a  scant  cup  of  sugar  for  each 
cup  of  juice  which  was  measured  be- 
fore boiling.  Set  pans  of  sugar  into 
oven,    leaving  the   door   partly   open. 

When  juice  has  boiled  20  minutes, 
stir  in  sugar  (which  should  be  too  hot 
to  be  held  in  the  hand  with  comfort). 
Stir  quickly  until  sugar  has  dissolved, 
then  boil  3  or  4  minutes  and  remove 
at  once  from  the  fire.  Have  ready 
sterilized  glasses  and  covers  (or  clean 
white  or  brown  papers  cut  for  covers, 
also  paper  discs  cut  to  just  fit  inside 
tops  of  jars).  Take  glasses  one  by  one 
from  boiling  hot  water,  stand  upon  a 
cloth  wrung  out  in  hot  water;  fill 
glasses,  straining  jelly  into  them 
through  a  cheese  cloth  wrung  out  in 
hot  water  if  extra  clear  jelly  is  de- 
sired. 

Dip  the  discs  of  paper  into  brandy 
and  lay  upon  top  of  jelly.  Cover  the 
glasses  (if  with  paper  seal  it  thoroughly 
with  mucilage)  and  when  cool,  paint 
over  the  covers  with  melted  paraffine. 

If  jelly  is  not  firm  when  first  made, 
set    it    in    the    sun    for    several    days. 

544.     CURRANT  JELLY. 
Follow   directions   in    No.    543. 

545.     CURRANT   AND    RASPBERRY 
JELLY. 

Use  equal  parts  of  currants  and  rasp- 
berries, following  directions  in  No.   543. 

546.  RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Follow  directions  in  No.  543  and 
take  special  care  that  the  raspberries 
are  just  ripe,  but  not  at  all  soft.  Rasp- 
berry jelly  is  better  for  the  addition 
of   a   little   currant. 

547.     BLACK   RASPBERRY   JELLY. 

Follow   directions   in   No.    543. 

548.     GRAPE   JELLY. 

Pick  over,  wash  and  stem  Concord 
grapes  which  are  nearly,  but  not  quite 
ripe  (wild  grapes  are  better  if  avail- 
able). Put  into  large  double  boiler, 
heat  to  scalding  hot,  crush  and  con- 
tinue to  heat  for  15  minutes,  then  pro- 
ceed as  in  No.   543, 


549.       GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Proceed  as  for  Grape  Jelly,  using 
grapes  which  are  just  beginning  to 
ripen.  For  green  grape  jelly  allow 
one-half  more  sugar  than  regular  rule 
(see    543). 

550.     PEACH    MARMALADE. 

Select  ripe,  well  flavored  fruit.  Peach 
marmalade  should  be  made  when  can- 
ning peaches,  using  for  the  marmalade 
those  which  are  too  soft  for  canning. 
Put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  1  quart  of 
water  and  boil  the  stones  in  it  for  20 
minutes;  then  add  the  peaches  quar- 
tered and  a  little  more  water  if  needed 
(water  should  half  cover  the  fruit). 
Boil  fruit  30  minutes  in  the  water, 
stirring  almost  constantly  from  the  time 
peaches  begin  to  be  tender.  Add  sugar 
in  proportion  to  ^  of  a  pound  for  1 
pound  of  fruit  which  was  measured  be- 
fore cooking.  Continue  to  boil  and  stir 
for  an  hour  or  more  and  put  up  in 
sterilized  jelly  or  fruit  jars,  covering 
with  brandied  paper  and  sealing  with 
paraffine   as   for   jellies. 

55L     GRAPE   BUTTER. 

Grape  butter  or  marmalade  may  be 
made  from  the  pulp  left  after  making 
grape  juice  (see  No.  553).  Weigh  the 
pulp  and  skins,  add  1  pound  of  sugar 
to  each  pound  of  fruit  and  boil  45  to 
60  minutes  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  stir- 
ring constantly.  When  quite  thick, 
press  through  a  coarse  wire  strainer, 
put    into   jars   as   directed    for   jellies. 

552.  ORANGE  AND  RHUBARB 
MARMALADE. 

Select  tart,  heavy,  smooth  skinned 
oranges.  Peel  in  fourths  and  cook 
until  soft  in  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Drain,  scrape  out  the  white  portion  of 
peel  and  cut  the  yellow  part  into  thin 
strips  by  laying  several  pieces  together 
and  slicing  with  a  sharp  knife.  Re- 
move adhering  white  skin  from  the 
peeled  oranges,  divide  into  sections  and 
remove  seeds.  Put  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  and  for  each  good  sized  orange 
allow  1  cup  of  rhubarb  which  has  been 
stripped  and  cut  into  Yz  inch  lengths. 
For  each  orange  and  cup  of  rhubarb 
add  IH  cups  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoon 
of  lemon  juice.  Heat  to  boiling  and 
cook  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Then  stir  in  ^  cup  of  chopped  nuts 
(blanched  almonds,  English  M^alnuts 
or  pecans),   for  each  orange  used. 


136 


THE  MONARCH   COOK  BOOK. 


XXXVI 
Fruit  Juices 


552.     GRAPE  JUICE. 


Use  the  best  quality  of  Concord 
grapes  freshly  picked  and  just  ripe. 
Stem  and  wash  the  grapes,  discarding 
all  unsound  or  soft  fruit.  Put  grapes 
into  a  porcelain  or  granite  preserving 
kettle,  allowing  1  pint  of  water  for 
each  3  quarts  of  grapes;  cook  slowly 
for  15  or  20  rninutes;  after  fruit  be- 
gins to  boil  skim  occasionally.  Pour 
off  the  free  juice,  reserving  that  which 
remains  with  fruit  to  be  strained  sep- 
arately. Allow  the  first  or  clearest 
juice  to  drip  through  jelly  bags  and 
keep  this  apart  to  be  bottled  separ- 
ately and  labeled  "extra  clear."  Then 
pour  remaining  juice  and  fruit  into 
jelly  bags,  a  small  quantity  at  a  time, 
removing  pulp  as  it  is  strained,  be- 
fore adding  more.  This  second  grade 
of  juice  should  be  bottled  separately. 
It  is  just  as  good  as  the  first,  but  not 
as  clear.  When  all  juice  is  ready,  re- 
turn the  clear  and  second  grade  juices, 
in  separate  kettles,  to  the  stove  and 
bring  to  boiling,  adding  1  cup  of  hot 
sugar  for  each  quart  of  juice.  Fill 
sterilized  bottles  at  once,  using  new 
corks.  See  that  bottles  are  filled  full, 
press  the  corks  in  well  and  set  aside 
where  no  draft  will  strike  the  bottles. 

Use  remaining  skins  and  pulp  for 
grape  butter    (see  No.   551). 

554.     CURRANT  SYRUP. 

Mash  currants,  cover  in  an  earthen 
bowl  and  allow  to  stand  3  or  4  days 
to  ferment;  then  strain  through  a  jelly 
bag  and  allow  2  pounds  of  sugar  for 
each    pint    of    juice.       Put    sugar    into 


porcelain  sauce  pan  and  dissolve  slow- 
ly, adding  a  half  cup  of  water.  Bring 
to  a  boil,  add  the  juice  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  When  cold,  fill  small  clean 
jars,  cover  and  seal  with  paraffine.  Use 
in  lemonade  and  other  summer  drinks. 
Syrup  may  be  prepared  in  a  similar 
manner  from  raspberries  and  other 
small  fruits. 

555.     TOMATO   SYRUP. 

Select  good  sized  ripe  tomatoes, 
squeeze  out  the  juice  and  for  each  pint 
of  clear  juice  add  J^  pound  of  sugar. 
Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  bottle, 
seal  and  set  away.  It  will  keep  for 
years  and  makes  a  delightful  beverage 
for  the  sick,  resembling  wine  in  flavor. 

556.     CURRANT   VINEGAR. 

2  quarts    black   currants. 

1  pint    vinegar. 

IVz   pounds    white   sugar. 

Crush  the  currants  well  and  place  in 
a  porcelain  dish  with  the  vinegar.  Al- 
low to  stand  3  or  4  days  then  strain 
into  an  earthen  jar;  add  the  sugar, 
set  the  jar  in  a  deep  pan  of  cold  water 
and  boil  for  an  hour.  When  cold, 
bottle.      It   is   the  better   for  keeping. 

557.     RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

To  4  quarts  of  red  raspberries  add 
vinegar  to  just  cover.  Allow  rasp- 
berries and  vinegar  to  stand  24  hours. 
Scald  and  strain;  add  sugar,  allowing 
1  pound  for  each  pint  of  juice;  boil 
20  minutes,  skim  well  and  when  cold 
bottle  and  seal. 


XXXVII 


Pickles 


558.     SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

1  peck    green    tomatoes    sliced. 

4  large    onions    sliced. 

Pour  over  them  1  cup  of  fine  salt, 
cover  and  allow  to  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drain  and  cook  them 
for  20  minutes  in  2  quarts  of  water  and 
1  quart  of  vinegar;  drain  again.     Then 


take  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  2  pounds 
brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  each  of  all- 
spice, cinnamon  and  cloves  and  1  table- 
spoon of  cayenne  (put  spices  in  a  bag 
using  whole  spices  where  possible)  and 
boil  in  the  vinegar  and  sugar  half  an 
hour;  then  add  tomatoes,  allow  to  stand 
15  minutes  and  put  into  an  earthen 
jar.     When  cool  cover  and  set  away. 


THE  MONARCH   COOK  BOOK. 


137 


559.     CUCUMBER    PICKLE. 

Use  freshly  gathered  cucumbers, 
wash,  but  handle  carefully  so  as  not  to 
bruise.  For  each  100  small  cucumbers 
take  1  pint  fine  salt,  dissolve  it  in 
boiling  water  to  cover  cucumbers,  and 
turn  over  them,  hot;  allow  to  stand 
24  hours,  pour  off  and  rinse;  then 
take  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  an 
egg,  dissolve  it  in  boiling  water  to 
cover  cucumbers,  pour  over  them  and 
allow  to  stand  five  hours.  Then  pour 
off  and  rinse;  take  enough  good  cider 
vinegar  to  cover  the  pickles,  also  Yt 
ounce  each  of  cloves,  cassia  and  mus- 
tard seed  (whole  and  tied  in  a  bag), 
and  1  cup  of  sugar;  cook  spices  30 
minutes  in  vinegar  and  pour,  boiling 
hot,  over  the  pickles  which  have  been 
packed  into  an  earthen  jar;  cool,  cover 
and  set  away. 

560.  TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Boil  1  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  until 
soft;  strain  and  to  each  quart  of  juice 
add  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon 
each  of  mustard,  cinnamon,  red  and 
black  pepper,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated. 
Boil  1  hour,  then  add  1  pint  of  cider 
vinegar  to  each  quart  of  catsup.  Boil 
a  few  minutes  and  bottle  while  hot. 

561.  PEACH  MANGOES. 

Take  unpared,  fine  large  free  stone 
peaches;  with  a  knife  cut  a  slit  in  the 
side  of  each  and  extract  the  stones; 
place  in  an  earthen  jar  and  pour  over 
them  boiling  water  to  cover,  which  has 
been  salted  (a  tablespoon  of  salt  to  a 
quart  of  water)  and  allow  to  stand  24 
hours.  Drain  and  drop  into  fresh  cold 
water  and  allow  to  remain  15  or  20 
minutes.     Wipe  dry,  handling  carefully 


and  fill  each  cavity  with  grated  horse- 
radish, white  mustard  seed  (J4  tea- 
spoon mustard  seed  to  each  peach),  a 
small  piece  of  ginger  root  and  one  or 
two  cloves.  Sew  up  the  opening  and 
pack  peaches  closely  into  a  stone  jar. 
Make  a  syrup  in  the  following  propor- 
tions: 1  pint  of  sugar  to  3  pints  vine- 
gar; pour  boiling  hot  over  the  peaches 
until  covered.  These  are  very  fine 
with   meats. 

562.     SPICED    CURRANTS. 

7  pounds    currants. 

5  pounds    brown    sugar. 

3  tablespoons     cinnamon. 

3  tablespoons    clove. 

1   pint    vinegar. 

Pick  over  currants,  wash,  drain  and 
remove  stems.  Put  into  a  preserving 
kettle,  add  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices, 
tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin,  heat  to  boil- 
ing point  and  cook  slowly  1^  hours. — 
(Fannie  M.  Farmer.) 

563.     RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Cut  ripe  cucumbers  in  halves  length- 
wise. Cover  with  alum  water,  allow- 
ing 2  teaspoons  of  powdered  alum  to 
each  quart  of  water.  Heat  gradually 
to  boiling  point,  then  allow  to  stand 
on  back  of  range  two  hours.  Remove 
from  alum  water  and  chill  in  ice 
water.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  5  min- 
•utes  2  pounds  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vine- 
gar and  2  tablespoons  each  of  whole 
cloves  and  stick  cinnamon  tied  in  a 
piece  of  muslin.  Add  cucumbers  and 
cook  10  minutes.  Remove  cucumbers 
to  a  stone  jar  and  pour  over  the  syrup. 
Scald  syrup  three  successive  mornings 
and  return  to  the  fruit. — (Fannie  M. 
Farmer.) 


XXXVIII 
Confectionery 


564.     SMITH  COLLEGE  FUDGE. 

1  cup  brown  sugar. 

1  cup   white  sugar. 
J4   cup   butter. 

H  cup   cream. 
Yx   cup    molasses. 

2  squares   bitter   chocolate. 
\Y2   teaspoons  vanilla. 

Boil   8   minutes,    adding   vanilla   after 
removing    from    the    fire.      Beat    until 


cool  and  thick  enough  to  "set";  pour 
at  once  into  buttered  pan  and  crease 
into  squares. 

565.     ECONOMY    FUDGE. 

1  cup    white    sugar. 

1  cup  brown  sugar. 

Yi  cup   milk. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

1  square   Baker's  chocolate. 


138 


THE   MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


Cook  8  minutes  and  after  removing 
from  the  fire  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla; 
beat  until  cool  and  thick  enough  to 
set.  Pour  into  a  buttered  shallow  pan 
and   crease   into   squares. 

566.      MAPLE    CREAM    CANDY. 

1  cup  maple  syrup  (or  1  cup  maple 
sugar  with  a  very  little  water  to  start 
dissolving.) 

Cook  the  maple  until  it  forms  a  heavy 
thread  when  dipped  up  on  a  spoon; 
then  add  ^  cup  of  rich  cream,  1  even 
tablespoon  butter,  and  cook  10  or  15 
minutes  longer  or  until  it  grains  read- 
ily when  a  teaspoonful  is  stirred  in  a 
saucer.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
in  a  cool  place  until  it  begins  to 
thicken  well,  then  add  a  cup  of  chopped 
butternut  meats  (or  English  walnuts) 
and  continue  beating  until  it  begins 
to  grain.  Pour  into  a  shallow  buttered 
pan  and  crease  into  squares. 

567.     MOCK   MAPLE   CANDY. 

2  cups    brown    sugar. 
1   cup    white   sugar. 
Yz   cup    cream. 

A   tablespoon   butter. 

A    pinch    of    salt. 

1   cup    chopped    raisins. 

1  cup   chopped   nuts. 

2  teaspoons    vanilla. 

Cook  first  five  ingredients  15  min- 
utes after  boiling  begins.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  flavor,  add  raisins  and  nuts 
and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  set. 
Pour  into  shallow  buttered  pan  and 
mark  into  squares.  Omit  raisins  if 
preferred. 

568.     MOLASSES   CANDY. 

1  cup   molasses. 

1  cup    light    brown    sugar. 

2  tablespoons   melted  butter. 
1   tablespoon    vinegar. 

Boil  without  stirring  until  it  hardens 
when  dropped  into  cold  water;  then 
stir  in  a  teaspoon  of  soda  and  pour 
upon  buttered  plates.  When  cool,  pull 
until   very  light  and  cut  into   sticks. 

569.     FRENCH     CANDY. 

Take  the  white  of  an  egg  and  an 
equal  quantity  of  lemon  or  orange 
juice.      Mix    well    together    and    stir    in 


confectioner's  sugar,  until  the  whole  is 
stiff  enough  to  roll  into  balls.  Roll  the 
balls  in  granulated  sugar  and  enclose  a 
blanched   almond    in   each,    if   desired. 

570.     CHOCOLATE    CREAMS. 

Take  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and 
^  cup  of  cream;  boil  5  minutes  from 
the  time  it  begins  to  boil  hard.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  flavor  with  a  tea- 
spoon vanilla  and  set  into  a  pan  of 
cold  water,  stirring  until  stiff.  Then 
drop  with  a  spoon  upon  waxed  paper 
and  as  soon  as  cool  enough,  mould  into 
balls   or   cones. 

Dissolve  a  cake  of  bitter  chocolate 
in  a  sauce  pan  set  into  boiling  water. 
Roll  each  of  the  cream  balls  in  the 
melted  chocolate,  lift  out  on  a  fork  and 
lay   upon   waxed   paper   to   harden. 

571.     CREAM    DATES. 

Use  either  the  cream  candy  given 
for  Chocolate  Creams  or  the  French 
candy  and  before  quite  hard,  use  it  for 
filling  the  cavities  of  dates  from  which 
stones    have    been    removed. 


572.     CREAM   WALNUTS. 

Use  half  meats  of  English  walnuts 
and  press  one  upon  each  side  of  a  ball 
made  from  French  Candy  or  from  the 
cream    given    for    Chocolate    Creams. 

573.     NUT    PATTIES. 

Before  French  Candy  is  quite  firm, 
stir  in  chopped  walnuts,  butternuts  or 
blanched  almonds;  then  spread  in  pat- 
ties upon  waxed  paper  to  harden  or 
spread  evenly  and  cut  into  squares. 

574.     PEPPERMINT  PATTIES. 

1  cup   white   sugar. 

%   cup   boiling   water. 

6  drops  oil  of  peppermint. 

Pour  boiling  water  upon  sugar  in 
sauce  pan  and  boil  briskly  5  minutes: 
do  not  stir.  Remove  from  range  and 
beat  vigorously  until  thick  and  creamy, 
adding,  while  beating,  the  six  drops  of 
peppermint  oil.  Drop  from  the  spoon 
upon  paraffine  or  waxed  paper  to  form 
patties  about  1  inch  jn  diameter.  Set 
aside   to   cool, 


THE  MONARCH   COOK  BOOK. 


139 


575.     BUTTERSCOTCH. 

3  cups    New    Orleans    molasses. 

2  cups   white   sugar. 

^   cup   butter. 

J4  cup   water. 

Cook  briskly  20  minutes;  try  a 
little  in  cold  water;  when  it  will  be- 
come crisp,  add   J^   teaspoon  of  soda  to 


the  boiling  mixture.  Pour  at  once  into 
buttered  tins  and  as  soon  as  cool  enough 
cut    into    squares. 

576.     STUFFED  DATES. 

Remove  stones  from  dates,  stuff  with 
Neufchatel  or  Cottage  Cheese  and  roll 
in    granulated    sugar. 


XXXIX 
For  Invalids 


577.     BEEF  TEA. 


Shred  Yi  pound  of  lean  beef  (rump 
or  round)  and  allow  to  stand  in  2  cups 
of  cold  water  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Put  into  a  glass  jar,  cover 
loosely,  then  set  into  a  sauce  pan  of 
warm  water  and  keep  over  a  moderate 
heat  for  IH  hours.  Do  not  allow 
water  to  boil  or  even  nearly  boil;  just 
keep  it  fairly  hot.  Strain  the  juice 
through  a  napkin,  add  a  teaspoon  of 
finely  shredded  raw  lean  meat,  allow 
to  stand  a  few  moments  and  add  a 
iittle  salt,  when  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

578.  BEEF  BROTH. 

When  purchasing  meat  for  broth,  ask 
for  the  neck,  as  this  is  the  most  nutri- 
tious. Chop  meat  and  bone  quite  small, 
having  about  Yz  as  much  bone  as  meat. 
Put  a  pound  of  beef  into  a  large  glass 
jar,  add  1  quart  of  cold  water,  cover 
with  plate  and  set  into  a  deep  sauce 
pan_  of  water.  Simmer  for  4  hours, 
strain  into  a  smaller  sauce  pan  and 
boil  until  reduced  nearly  one-half;  re- 
move all   fat  and  scum. 

Seasoning  should  be  influenced  by 
the  taste  and  preference  of  the  in- 
valid. A  little  celery  salt  or  a  stalk 
of  celery,  allowed  to  simmer  in  the 
broth,  is  pleasant.  Ground  pepper 
should  not  be  used.  If  pepper  is  de- 
sired, use  a  red  pepper  pod  and  allow 
it  to  remain  in  the  broth  for  a  couple 
of   minutes. 

579.  BEEF   JUICE. 

Ask  for  a  thin  slice  of  rump  steak, 
cut  away  fat  and  just  sear  over  the 
outside  in  a  broiler  or  hot  pan.     Scrape 


the  meat  into  shreds  with  a  knife,  warm 
a  beef  press  or  lemon  squeezer  in  hot 
water,  dry  it  and  squeeze  juice  from 
the  meat  into  a  glass;  place  glass  in 
warm  water  and  heat  the  juice  a  little, 
add  a  pinch   of  salt  and  serve. 

580.     MUTTON  BROTH. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  1  pound  of 
mutton  neck,  and  put  it  in  a  quart  of 
cold  water.  Cover  closely  and  "boil  un- 
salted  until  it  falls  to  pieces.  Strain 
and  add  1  tablespoon  of  rice  or  barley 
which  has  been  soaked  in  a  little  warm 
water.  Simmer  J^  hour,  stir  often, 
then  add  4  tablespoons  of  milk,  a  little 
salt  and  a  bit  of  chopped  parsley  if 
liked.  If  pepper  is  desired,  allow  a 
red  pepper  pod  to  remain  in  the  broth 
for  two  minutes.  Remove  pod,  simmer 
again  5  minutes,  taking  care  not  to 
burn   it. 

Chicken  broth  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way.  Crack  the  bones  well  be- 
fore cooking. 

581.     VEAL  BROTH. 

Trim  surplus  fat  from  a  piece  of  veal 
neck  and  to  a  pound  of  lean  (with 
bone)  add  a  quart  of  cold  water.  Sim- 
mer gently  two  hours,  strain  and  cool. 
When  ready  to  use,  remove  all  fat,  put 
a  small  quantity  of  the  stock  in  a  sauce 
pan  and  heat;  salt  slightly,  season  a 
mornent  with  red  pepper  pod  and  add 
a  little  soaked  rice  or  barley  if  de- 
sired. 

Mutton  Broth  may  also  be  prepared 
by  this  method  and  in  the  latter  case 
a  bit  of  onion  is  sometimes  added  when 
first  cooking  the  meat  to  destroy  the 
mutton   flavor. 


140 


THE  MONARCH   COOK  BOOK. 


582.     CHICKEN    BROTH. 

Cut  a  chicken  neatly  into  pieces,  add 
3  quarts  of  cold  water  and  a  stalk  of 
celery;  cover  and  simmer  slowly  for 
two  hours.  Carefully  remove  all  fat, 
strain,  salt  a  little  and  serve.  If  de- 
sired, a  little  rice  may  be  boiled  with 
the  chicken,  being  added  half  an  hour 
before  chicken   is   done. 

583.     FLAXSEED    LEMONADE. 

Into  a  covered  vessel  pour  1  quart  of 
boiling  water  upon  four  tablespoons  of 
flaxseed.  Steep  without  boiling  for 
three  hours,  then  add  the  juice  of  2 
lemons  and  sweeten  to  taste.  If  too 
thick,  add  more  cold  water.  Excellent 
for   colds. 

584.     OATMEAL    GRUEL. 

Pour  4  cups  cold  water  over  J4  cup 
steel  cut  oatmeal  (or  H  cup  rolled 
oats)  in  sauce  pan.  Add  Ya  teaspoon 
salt  and  cook  45  minutes  after  it  begins 
to  boil,  allowing  it  to  bubble  gently. 
Strain,  add  more  salt  if  liked,  also 
a  half  cup  of  sweet  cream  or  rich  milk 
and    sweeten   to   taste. 


585.     CURRANT  JELLY  WATER. 

Dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  currant  jelly 
in  a  glass  of  cold  water  and  add  one 
lump  of  sugar. 

586.     APPLE    WATER. 

Mash  a  baked  apple  and  pour  over  it 
a  cup  of  boiling  water.  When  cool, 
strain  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Add  a 
little   lemon   juice   if  permitted. 

587.     SLIPPERY    ELM    BARK    TEA. 

Break  the  bark  into  bits,  pour  boiling 
water  over  it,  cover  closely,  and  allow 
to  stand  until  cold.  For  summer  com- 
plaints, add  a  little  sugar  and  ice;  for 
colds,  add  lemon  juice. 

588.     TOAST   WATER. 

Toast  a  large  slice  of  wheat  bread 
until  a  deep  brown  all  over,  but  do  not 
blacken  or  burn  it.  Lay  the  toast  in  a 
covered  earthen  dish,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  cover  the  dish  closely  and  steep 
until  cold.  Strain  and  unless  the 
physician  forbids,  add  a  bit  of  lemon 
juice. 


THE  MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


141 


INDEX 


NO.  OF  RECIPE. 

Almonds    259-261 

to  Blanch 259 

Asparagus    167,  168 

Salad    236,  237 

Soup  18-20 

Bacon    114,   135 

Batters    424,   435,  444 

Bean   Porridge    24 

Beans   169-174 

Beef  Broth  (See  also  Soups) 578 

"     Tea   577 

"     Ways  of  preparing 68-98 

Beet  Salad    238,  239 

Beets   175-177 

Beverages    488-502 

Biscuit    427-443 

**        Baking  Powder    436 

Blueberry   Gems    438 

Bouillon,  Tomato 9 

Bread    409-423 

Bread  Puddings 301-307 

Broth,    for   invalids 577-582 

Brown  Bread   419 

Buckwheat   Breakfast   Cake 423 

Cakes    448 

Buns,   Hot   Cross 433 

Butter,    Grape 551 

Nut    267,  270 

Cabbage    178-180 

Salad 241 

Cake   365-384 

"     Coffee    432 

"     Frostings    385-400 

Cakes,   Breakfast    424-457 

"      Fancy    , 401-408 

Candy    564-576 

Canning    and    Preserving 521-542 

Carrots    181-183 

Cauliflower    184-187 

Salad    242 

Celery    188 

"       Salad    ..240,  250 

"       Soup    21 

Cereal  Puddings 320-330 

Cereals     469-477 

Chestnuts     262-265 

Chicken  Broth  (See  also  Soups)...    582 

Salad     243 

"        Ways   of    Preparing.  ..138,   150 

Soup    15,     16 

Chocolate    488 

Cocoa    489,  490 

Coffee    491,   492,  494 

Coffee  Cake   432 

Cold  Desserts 334-344 

Confectionery    564-576 


NO.  OF  RECIPE. 

Consomme 6,       7 

Cookies     401-408 

Corn    189-191 

"     Bread   420,  421 

"     Gems 443 

"     Muffins    441 

Corn  Meal  Mush 469 

Corned  Beef  Hash 94 

Cornstarch   Puddings    314-317 

Cottage    Cheese    467 

Cracker    Puddings    301-307 

Cranberry   Jelly    516 

"  Sauce    517 

Cress    Salad    244-246 

Croquettes 59,  90,   106,   127,  148 

Crullers   457 

Cucumber  Salad   247 

Cucumbers    192 

Custard  Desserts 340-343 

Puddings    318,  319 

Dandelions    (See    Greens) 194 

Desserts,   Cold    334-344 

"         Frozen    353-364 

"         Fruit  (See  Fruits). 

"         (See   Puddings). 

Doughnuts    453-456 

Dressings,    Salad    227-235 

Drinks    488-502 

•'       for  Invalids   577-588 

Dumplings    426 

Egg  Desserts    340-344 

••     Plant    193 

Eggs    478-487 

English  Plum  Pudding 313 

Fillings,    Cake    385-400 

Fish  Balls    54 

"     Broth    10 

"     Chowder    22 

*     Fragments    58-62 

"     Fresh     35-51 

"     Salt    52-57 

Flaxseed    Lemonade    583 

French  Toast 445 

Frostings,    Cake    385-400 

Frozen  Desserts   353-364 

Fruit     503-557 

"       Canned     521-542 

"       Cooked    509-520 

"       Desserts   (See  Fruits). 

«•       Fresh    503-507 

"       Juices    553-557 

"       Puddings    297-300 

"       Salad    248,  249 

"       Syrups    554,  SS5 


142 


THE  MONARCH  COOK  BOOK. 


NO.  OF  RECIPE. 

Garnishes,  Meat 152-165 

"  Soup     31-34 

Gelatine  Desserts   335-339 

Gems     437-443 

German   Toast    444 

Giblet    Sauce    138 

Ginger  Crisp    402 

Punch     496 

••       Sherbet    355 

Gingerbread,   Soft   384 

Goose  (See  Poultry). 

Gulasch,  Hungarian 86 

Graham   Bread    416-418 

Gems    442 

"       Muffins    440 

Grape  Juice   497,  553 

Gravy,    Brown    69 

Greens    194 

Griddle  Cakes   448-452 

Gruel    584 

Ham    136,  137 

Hamburg   Steak    83 

Ice  Creams    353,   359-364 

Ices    353-358 

Invalids,   Recipes  for 577-588 

Irish    Stew     123 

Jellies     543-549 

Juices,    Fruit 553-557 

Lamb  and  Mutton .117-128 

Lemonade   498 

Flaxseed   583 

Liver     114-116 

Macaroni    470-472 

Mangoes    561 

Marmalades     550-552 

Meat  Balls    82 

Meats    68-151 

Meringue    286 

Muffins     434-443 

Mush,  Corn  Meal 446,  469 

Mustard,   to   mix 462 

Mutton   and   Lamb 117-128 

Broth     580 

New    England  Boiled  Dinner 92 

Nut  and   Celery   Salad 250 

"     Bread    414 

"     Salads   268,  269 

"     Sandwiches    463-464 

Nuts    259-270 

Oatmeal    473 

Gruel    584 

Punch    502 

Omelets    481-485 

Onions    195,   196 

Oyster    Stew    23 

Oysters   63-67 


NO.  OF  RECIPE. 

Parsnips     197,   198 

Pastry   271-296 

Pea  Salad     251 

••     Soup    26-28 

Peach    Mangoes    561 

Peanuts    266-268 

Peas    199,  200 

Pecan  Nut  Butter    270 

Pickles     558-563 

Pie,  Beefsteak    91 

"     Chicken    147 

"     Crust    271-275 

"     Veal    103,   104 

Pies     271-293 

Pork    129-137 

Potato  Salad    252 

Potatoes    200-208 

Sweet    ...214-216 

Poultry    138-151 

Pressed  Meats    113,   149 

Pudding    Sauces    345-352 

Puddings     297-344 

Bread  Foundation   301-307 

Cereal  *'  320-330 

Cornstarch      "  314-317 

Cracker  "  301-307 

Custard  "  318    319 

Egg  "  340-344 

Flour  "  308-313 

Fruit  "  297-300 

Gelatine  "  335-339 

Souffle    331-333 

Ragotit   of   Veal 112 

Rhubarb     300,  520 

Punch     500 

Rice    474-476 

Roley  Poley   293 

Rolls,  Breakfast,  Tea,   Etc 427-443 

Rosette  Wafers 458 

Rye    Bread    415 

Sable  Islands HO 

Salad    Dressings    227-235 

Salads    ...227-258 

Nut    268,  269 

Salmon   Salad    253 

Sandwiches    461-468 

Sardine    Sandwiches    465 

Sauces,  Meat  and  Fish 152-165 

Pudding    345-352 

Salad   (See  Dressings). 

Scotch  Broth    29,     30 

"       Short  Bread   296 

Sherbets    353-3581 

Short  Bread,   Scotch    296 

Shortcake  Crust    459| 

Fillings     4601 

Souffle    Puddings    331-333 

Soup  Garnishes    ^^'H 

Soups  and  Soup  Making 1-3(J 


THE  MONARCH   COOK   BOOK. 


143 


NO.  OF  RECIPE. 

Spaghetti    (See    Macaroni). 

Spare  Ribs  132 

Spinach    194 

Squash    209-213 

Stock,    Soup 1-14 

String  Bean  Salad 254 

"       Beans    174 

Stuffing,    Poultry,    Etc 139,   140 

Succotash    191 

Sweet  Potatoes    214-216 

Syrups,    Fruit    .554,  555 

Tart  Fillings    295 

"     Shells 294 

Tea    493 

Toast    444,  445 


NO.  OF  RECIPE. 

Tomato  Salad     255-258 

Soup     9,   12,     25 

Tomatoes    217-224 

Tongue,    Beef    95,     96 

Tripe    97 

Turkey    138-151 

Turnips    225,  226 

Veal    99-113 

'•     Broth    (See    Soups) 581 

Vegetables    166-226 

Vermicelli   (See  Macaroni). 

Vinegar,  Fruit 556,  557 

Wheat    477 

White  Soup  Stock    13,     14 

Yorkshire  Pudding   70 


I  19 


W'y'^"-^  •-^•°  /\  "°™*"  '^""^'^^  "-I 


*      o 


^  \/^?^V*    %''^i^*'/     V*^'-*/ 
.  ^^..^^  .♦  Jlfe\  %„./  :iJjS£^'.  %,♦*  .'^ 


VV 


%P.       'o  ♦ 


!^^*'%  -.ip:-"  ..^'"\  °^? 


.■?.."•.'*>.  ^^'.'i^V^  o'^"..'.'.    '•*•<: 


C"    *\ 


°o 


.-J""     . 


o  V 


♦•  .*^">.^  '^^"KW  ^^ 


•"c        •   .-rCNfk     # 


