vO 


0 


4  o 


0*    ┬╗ 


.0        (,┬░1^f        O. 


A.  o 


ŌĆó       ^<.    A^      *:^ 


r        ^^<>"       ^^┬ŻM^r:.     "-^Ar^^        '>*<;^^^i^''-       ^oV^ 


<> 


<p''     ^^ 


MOTHERLY  TALKS 

VHTH 

YOUNG    HOUSEKEEPERS: 


EMBRACINO 


EIGHTY-SEVEN  BRIEF  ARTICLES  ON  TOPICS  OF  HOME  INTEREST, 
AND  ABOUT  FIVE  HUNDRED  CHOICE  RECEIPTS 
FOR  COOKING,  ETC. 


t  J- 


MRS.   H.  W.   BEECHER 


NEW  YORit:  J 
J.  B.  FORD    AND    COMPANY. 

1873. 


<t 


<\ 


^ 


^\ 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1873, 
BY     J.    li.    FORD     &     CO., 

in  the  OfBce  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington. 


University  Press:  Welch,  Bigelow,  &  Co., 
Cambridge. 


PUBLISHERS'   PREFACE. 


THIS  book,  composed  of  brief  and  pithy  articles,  on 
almost  every  conceivable  point  of  household  duty,  is  a 
friendly  monitor  for  young  wives,  and  a  mine  of  good  sense 
and  information  for  growing  maidens.  Originally  pubhshed 
in  the  Household  Department  of  "The  Christian  Union," 
the  articles  have  been  so  frequently  called  for  and  inquired 
after  by  those  who  had  found  help  in  them,  that  the  author 
yielded  to  the  desires  of  others,  and  has  gathered  them  into 
this  little  volume. 

Mrs.  Beecher's  notion  of  woman's  sphere  is,  that,  whatever 
exceptional  women  may  be  able  to  accomplish,  by  reason  of 
pecuHar  circumstances  and  talents,  and  freedom  from  domes- 
tic responsibilities,  the  place  of  labor  and  achievement  for 
most  women,  and  for  all  married  women  and  mothers,  is 
Home.  And  this  book  is  exactly  what  its  title  sets  forth, ŌĆö 
a  kind  and  motherly  way  of  helping  the  inexperienced  to 
make  agreeable,  well-regulated,  and  happy  homes.  Follow- 
ing the  "Talks"  are  a  choice  selection  of  nearly  five  hundred 
Cooking  Eeceipts,  all  vouched  for  by  the  author's  own  ex- 
perience and  skillful  testing. 


COl^TEl^TS. 


PART  I. 

MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

PAGE 

I.  System  in  Work  . ^ 

II.  March ^ 

III.  Spring  Labor '^1 

IV.  Sunshine  and  Fresh  Air 1* 

V.  House-cleaning Ō¢Ā'Ō¢Ā' 

VI.  Washing-day 21 

VII.  Putting  Clothes  to  soak 25 

YIII.  Patient  Continuance  in  Well-doing 28 

IX.  Preparing  for  the  Country 32 

X.  Heedlessness 35 

XI.  Washing  Flannels 38 

XII.  June  Cai-es 42 

XIII.  Pure  Air  and  thorough  Ventilation 46 

XIV.  Jlilk  and  Butter 49 

XV.  Making  Cheese .53 

XVI.  A  troublesome  Question 57 

XVII.  Woman's  Kingdom 63 

XVIII.  The  Kitchen 66 

XIX.  How  much  is  a  Wife  worth '?' 70 

XX.  Teach  little  Boys  to  be  useful 74 

XXI.  Bleaching,  Starching,  and  removing  Stains          ...  78 

XXII.  To  iron  Shirts,  Vests,  and  Embroideries  ....  84 

XXIII.  A  Talk  about  Beds 88 

XXIV.  Marketing 91 

XXV.  Trust  your  Children 96 

XXVI.  Who  invented  Bread? 100 

XXVII.  How  about  the  little  Girls? 107 

XXVIII.  Stealing  Servants 112 

XXIX.  Fall  Cleaning 117 

XXX.  Fashionable  Dress 122 

XXXI.  Lessons  by  the  Wayside 126 


CONTENTS. 


XXXTI.  Pauline  Pry         .... 

XXXIII.  Buy  your  Cage  before  you  catch  your  Bird 

XXXIV.  Care  in  selecting  a  House    . 
XXXV.  Visiting  for  one's  own  Convenience 

XXXVI.  Will  they  Board,  or  keep  House  V 

XXXVII.  Choice  of  Colors  in  Dress 

XXXVIII.  Harmonizing  Colors  in  Dress 

XXXIX.  A  Word  about  Moths      . 

XL.  Winter  Butter      .... 

XLI.  Repairs 

XLII.  Accurate  Weights  and  Measures  in  Cooking 

XLIII.  Teaching  little  Girls  to  sew 

XLIV.  The  Care  of  Poultry    .... 

XLV.  Institutions  for  the  Education  of  Women 

XLVI.  Great  Mistakes 

XL VII.  Study  to  make  Home  attractive 

XL VIII.  The  Care  of  Cooking-Stoves  and  Ranges 

XLIX.  The  Old  Ways  and  the  New    . 

L.  A  few  Hints  on  Carving 

LI.  Parental  Example   .        . 

LII.  True  Taste  more  effective  than  Money 

LIII.  Cooking  by  Steam 

LTV.  Vegetables 

LV.  Cabbage.        ..... 

LVI.  Pulse 

LVII.  Pot-herbs  and  Salads 

LVIII.  Mistakes  in  cooking  Vegetables  . 

LIX.  Divided  Family  Government  . 

LX.  How  can  we  secure  good  Servants  ? 

LXL  The  Guest-Chamber 

LXIL  The  Care  of  Infants  ŌĆó  . 

LXIII.  Personal  Neatness 

LXIV.  Are  House-Plants  injurious  to  the  Health? 

LXV.  Bad  Butter 

LXVI.  October 

LXVII.  The  Slavery  of  Fashion  .... 

LXVIII.  Pickling  and  Preserving 

LXIX.  What  has  become  of  all  the  little  Girls  ? 

LXX.  Procrastination 

LXXI.  The  surest  Remedy 

LXXII.  A  few  little  Things      .... 

LXXIII.  Planning  for  the  Week    . 

LXXIV.  Shopping 

LXXV.  Dusting 


CONTENTS. 


VU 


LXXVI. 

A  Chapter  on  Soups 

323 

LXXVFI. 

More  about  Soups 

.     32S 

LXXVIII. 

Testing  Character 

333 

LXXIX. 

If  we  knew ! 

.     337 

LXXX. 

In  such  an  Hour  as  ye  think  not         .        .         .        . 

342 

LXXXI. 

Grumbling 

.     346 

LXXXII. 

Little  Foxes  spoiling  the  beloved  Vine 

351 

LXXXIII. 

Waste  not  ŌĆö  want  not 

.     356 

LXXXIV. 

Making  Cake  and  Pastry 

360 

LXXXV. 

As  thy  Day  so  shall  thy  Strength  be       .        .        . 

.     366 

LXXXVl. 

What  we  know  not  now  we  shall  know  hereafter 

370 

LXXXVII. 

Until  Death  do  us  part 

.    375 

PART  11. 

CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

YEAST. 


Yeast 

Another 

Yeast-Cakes 

BREAD. 

General  Rules 

Bread  without  Sponging    .        .        .        . 

Good  Bread    

Bread  with  Sponging  .         .        .         . 

To  make  Bread  from  Flour  that  runs     . 
Bread  by  Scalding  the  Flour 
To  make  Stale  Bread  fresh     . 

Graham  Bread 

Steamed  Brown  Bread   .        .        ŌĆó        ŌĆó 

Corn  Bread 

Rice  Bread 


BISCUIT. 


Morning  Biscuit 
Tea  Biscuit 
Soda  Biscuit  . 
Indian-Corn  Biscuit 
Parker  House  Rolls 
Rusk  . 
Sweet  Potato  Buns 


385 
385 
385 

386 

386 
386 
387 
387 
388 
388 
388 
389 
389 
390 

390 
390 
391 
391 
391 
392 
392 


viii  CONTENTS. 

Potato  Pone 392 

Gems 392 

Gems,  No.  2 392 

Graham  Gems 393 

BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

Corn  Cakes 393 

Another  Way 393 

Another 393 

Another '  393 

Steamed  Johnny-Cake 394 

Corn-Meal  Cake  with  Apples  and  Suet 394 

Muffins 394 

Another  Way 394 

Cream  Muffins 394 

Another  Way 394 

Eaised  Muffins 395 

Hominy  Sluffins 395 

Quick  Muffins 395 

Graham  Flour  Muffins 395 

Raised  Waffles 395 

Corn-Meal  Waffles 396 

Buckwheat  Cakes 396 

Rice  Griddle-Cakes 396 

Sour-Milk  Griddle-Cakes 396 

GreCiJ-Corn  Fritters 896 

Mock  Oyster  Fritters 397 

Corn  Oysters 397 

Rice  Cakes 397 

Rice  or  Hominy  Cakes 397 

Rosie's  Sallj^  Lunn 397 

Strawberry  Shortcake 397 

Cream  Toast 398 

SOUPS. 

General  Directions 398 

Stock  for  Soups 399 

Tomato  Soup ; 399 

Another 400 

A  Vegetable  Soup 400 

Mock-Turtle  Soup      . 400 

Bean  Soup 401 

Soup  with  Eggs 402 


CONTENTS. 


IX 


Green  Pea  Soup     . 
Turtle  Bean  Soup 
Nursery  Soup 
Oyster  and  Clam  Soup 
Potato  Soup    . 


402 
402 
403 
403 
403 


404 
404 
404 
405 
405 
405 
40G 
406 

4or 
4or 

407 
408 
408 
408 
409 
409 
409 
409 


FISH. 

To  Boil  Fresh  Fish         .... 

Baked  Salmon  Trout,  with  Cream  Gravy 

Boiled  Salmon  Trout     .... 

Fried  Halibut    .... 

Fish  Chowder 

To  prepare  and  dress  Cold  Fish 

Newport  Fish  Pudding . 

Fish-Balis  .... 

Codfish  Balls 

Scalloped  Crabs 

Oyster  Pie 

Oyster  Fritters  . 

To  Frj'  Oysters 

Lobster  Patties  . 

Lobster  Kissoles     . 

Fish  Sauce 

A  good  Breakfast  Dish .... 

Best  Mode  of  Roasting  Fish,  Ducks,  &c. 

MEATS, 

BEEF. 

Leicestershire  Hunting  Beef 410 

Spiced  Beef 410 

Curried  Beef 411 

Meat  Pie 411 

Beef  CoUops 411 

To  Cook  a  Beefsteak 412 

Rump  Steak,  with  Oyster  Sauce 412 

412 

.  413 

413 

413 

413 

413 

414 

414 

415 


A  French  Broil 

Beefsteak  Rolls 

Beef  Croquettes  .... 

Mock  Duck 

A  Nice  Breakfast  Dish 

Mock  Venison 

To  prepare  Cold  Roast  Beef  or  Mutton 
Economical  Breakfast  Dish    . 
A"TwoStorv"        .... 


CONTENTS. 


MUTTON  AND   LAMB. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  Boiled .  415 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  Spiced 415 

Mutton  Stew 416 

Roasting  a  Log  of  Lamb 416 

To  use  Cold  Lamb 416 

Mint  Sauce 416 

VENISON. 

Jerked  Venison 417 

Venison  Steaks 418 

COOKING   IN  A    "  KUMFOKD   BOILER." 

To  Roast  Beef  or  Mutton 418 

To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Lamb  or  Mutton 418 

Corned  Beef 418 

To  Cook  a  Ham 419 

Fish 419 

VEAL. 

Meats  for  June 420 

Calf's  Head  and  Harslet 420 

Head  and  Harslet  Hash .420 

Veal  Pie 421 

Sweetbread  Croquettes 421 

Veal  Patty 422 

Minced  Veal 422 

VedHash.         .                 422 

Veal  Loaf       ....'.. 423 

Croquettes.         .         .      ' 423 

POULTRY   AND   GAME. 

Steamed  Turkey 423 

Broiled  Chickens 424 

To  Bake  a  Chicken 425 

Gravy  for  Roast  or  Baked  Poultry 426 

Chicken  Pot-Pie 426 

Fried  Chickens  .        .        .        ŌĆó 427 

To  Cook  an  Old  Fowl 427 

Roast  Duck         ..Ō¢Ā.,.. 428 

To  Roast  a  Goose 428 

Wild  Goose 429 

To  Roast  a  Green  Goose 429 

To  Boil  a  Goose 429 

To  Stew  a  Goose '   ,        ,        .  430 

To  Stew  Pigeons 430 


CONTENTS. 


Wild  Sqnabs 

Chicken  Pudding 

Chicken  Jelly 

Chicken  Patties  ....... 

To  make  Remnants  of  Meat,  Chicken,  etc.,  palatable 
Meat  Croquettes 


POIUv   AND   HAM. 


To  Boil  a  Ham 
Broiled  Ham 
Ham  Croquettes 
Ham  and  Toast  . 
Ham  Toast 


To  use  Cold  Boiled  Ham 

Another  Way 

Ham  Ball    . 

How  a  Pig  was  Roasted  on 

Good  Sausage  Meat   . 

A  Dutch  Dish 


a  Sugar  Plantation 


431 
4.31 
432 
432 
432 
433 


433 
433 
433 
433 
434 
434 
434 
434 
434 
435 
435 


SALADS  AND  OMELETS. 

Chicken  Salad 436 

Italian  Chicken  Salad 436 

Lobster  Salad 437 

Potato  Salad 437 

Plain  Omelet 437 


Puff  Omelet 
Oyster  Omelet 
Omelet  with  Jelly 
Baked  Omelet 
Omelette  Soufflee 


438 
438 
438 
438 
439 


EGGS. 

Boiled  Eggs 439 

Fried  Eggs 439 

Poached  Eggs 439 

Hard  Scrabbled 440 

Fricasseed  Eggs,  or  Egg  Baskets 440 

Egg  Toast 440 

Scrambled  Eggs ŌĆó        .  441 

Scrambled  Eggs 441 

Dropped  Eggs 441 

Cottage  Cheese 441 


xii  CONTENTS. 

VEGETABLES. 

Corn 443 

Another  Way 444 

Boiling  Potatoes 444 

Another  Way 444 

To  Boil  New  Potatoes ,        .  445 

Mashed  Potatoes 445 

Potato  Croqiiettes 445 

Saratoga  Fried  Potatoes 445 

Scalloped  Potatoes 445 

Snow  Potatoes 446 

Potato  Cakes 446 

To  Fry  Sweet  Potatoes 446 

Maccaroni 446 

Egg  Plant 447 

Another  Way 447 

Fricasseed  Egg-Plant 447 

To  Stew  Tomatoes 448 

Baked  Tomatoes 448 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 448 

Boiled  Rice .449 

Cooking  Rice          .        .        .       - ŌĆó  .        .        ŌĆó  449 

Peas 449 

Green  Peas 450 

Beans 450 

Asparagus 451 

Spinach 451 

To  Boil  Cabbage 451 

To  Boil  Cabbage  with  Meat .  452 

Another  Way 452 

Cabbage  like  Cauliflower 452 

Cauliflower 452 

Hot-Slaw 452 

Cold-Slaw 453 

To  Cook  Onions 453 

CAKE. 

GEKEEAL  KULES. 

Loaf  Cake 454 

Mrs.  Breedley's  Fruit  Cake 455 

Rosie's  Raised  Cake 455 

Fruit  Cake 455 

Farmer's  Fruit  Cake 455 


CONTENTS. 


Whortleberry  Cake 
01  ic  Cake  . 
Nice  little  Cakes     . 
Queen  Charlotte's  Cake 
Lemon  Cake  . 
Molasses  Drop  Cake 
Chicago  Fruit  Cake 
Cider  Cake 
Snow-flake  Cake    . 
Cocoa-nut  Cake 
Macaroons 
Delicate  Cake    . 
Sponge  Cake  . 
Pineapple  Cake . 
Molasses  Cup  Cake 
Loaf  Cake 
Walnut  Cake . 
Loaf  Cake 
Western  Cake 
Snowball  Cake  . 
Molasses  Cake 
Corn-Starch  Cake 
Moss  Cake     . 
Jenny  Lind  Cake 
Sugar  Cookies 
Cookies 
Another  Way 
Molasses  Gingerbread 
Plain  Gingerbread 
Excellent  Ginger-Snaps 


PIES,   PUDDINGS,  AND  DESSERTS. 

Pastry 

PuffPaste 

Potato  Pastry  for  Meat  Pies 

Pumpkin  Pies 

Dried-Apple  Pies 

Pies  of  Canned  Fruit 


456 
456 
456 
456 
456 
457 
457 
457 
457 
457 
457 
458 
458 
458 
458 
458 
459 
459 
459 
459 
459 
459 
459 
460 
460 
460 
460 
.460 
460 
461 


461 
461 
462 
462 
462 
463 


Mince  Pie 463 

Rice  Pie 464 

Apple  Puflfs 464 

Marlborough  Pie 464 

Chess  Pie 464 

English  Christmas  Plum-Pudding 464 


xiv  CONTENTS. 

A  Family  Christmas  Pudding 465 

A  Simple  Christmas  Pudding 465 

Bread  Pudding 466 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding 466 

"Boiled  Indian  Pudding 466 

Palmjra,  or  Date  Pudding .        .  466 

Sponge-Cake  Pudding 467 

Steamed  Pudding .  467 

An  Excellent  Pudding 467 

Apple  and  Tapioca  Pudding 467 

Sweet-Apple  Pudding 468 

Fig  Pudding 468 

Barley  Cream  for  Invalids 468 

Apple  Float 468 

Sago  Pudding 468 

Cocoa-nut  Custard 468 

Apple  Pudding 468 

Sauce 469 

Nice  Cheap  Pudding      .        .                469 

Orange  Pudding 469 

Custard  without  Eggs 469 

A  Quick  Pudding 469 

Rice  Meringue 470 

Sago  Pudding 470 

Lemon  or  Orange  Honeycomb .        .  470 

Api:le  Snow 470 

Snow  Pudding 470 

Cocoa-nut  Pudding  or  Pies 471 

Bohemian  Cream 471 

Spanish  Cream 471 

Eennet  Wine 472 

Cold  Custard 472 

Baked  Apples 472 

Apple  Snow 472 

PEESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 

To  Can  Peaches     ŌĆó 472 

Mixed  Marmalade 473 

Jellies     .        .                473 

Peach  Jelly *.....  474 

Quince  Jelly 474 

To  Preserve  Quinces 474 

Candied  Orange  Peel 475 

Apple  and  Quince  Sauce 475 


CONTENTS.  XV 

Apple  Sauce 475 

Baked  Pears ŌĆó        .        .        .        .  476 

CHEESE. 

Stilton  Cheese 476 

Cottenham  Cheese 476 

Parmesan 476 

Cheddar 477 

Dunlop 477 

New  Cheese 477 

Swiss  Cheese 477 

Sage  or  Green  Cheese 477 

Cream  Cheese 477 

Potato  Cheese 478 

Cheese  Straus 478 

PICKLES. 

Peach  Pickles 478 

Pickled  Plums 480 

Green  Tomato  Pickles 480 

To  Pickle  Green  Tomatoes 481 

Pickled  Nasturtiums 481 

Pickled  Cauliflower .481 

Tomato  Pickles 482 

To  Pickle  Onions 482 

To  Pickle  Ked  Cabbage 482 

Cucumber  Pickles 482 

To  Pickle  small  Cucumbers  and  Gherkins 483 

Tomato  Catsup 483 

MISCELLANEOUS  HINTS. 

To  make  Tea 484 

Substitute  for  Milk  in  Tea  and  Coffee 485 

Bread  Crumbs 485 

GLEANINGS. 

To  Clean  Kid  Gloves 486 

To  keep  Grapes 486 

To  Clean  Oil-Cloths 486 

Fill  your  Lamps  in  the  Morning 486 

Colored  Silk 487 

To  Remove  Fi-uit  Stains 487 

Bee  or  Wasp  Stings 487 

To  Preserve  Brooms 487 


xvi  CONTENTS. 

Glossy  Starch 488 

Salt  with  Nuts 488 

To  take  Ink-Stains  from  Mahogany 488 

To  keep  Quinces 488 

Fruit  Stains 488 

Ink  Stains  .     Ō¢Ā 489 

Buying  Furs  .        ^ 489 

Drying  Umbrellas      .        .        ._ 490 

A  Tight  Ring 490 

Scrubbing  White  Paint 490 

How  to  wash  Graining 490 

To  keep  Codfish 491 

Zante  Currants 491 

To  keep  Cheese 491 

To  keep  Smoked  Beef  and  Hams 491 

To  keep  Preserves 491 

Care  of  Flour-Barrels 491 

Indian  Meal 491 

Coffee  and  Tea 492 

Raisins  and  Starch ŌĆó        .        .        .        .  492 

Household  Weights  and  Measures 492 

To  test  Flour 492 


INTRODUOTIMsT. 


"TT^OR  the  last  two  years  we  have  occupied  a  corner 
-*-  in  "The  Christian  Union"  with  the  following 
brief  articles,  and  from  week  to  week  endeavored  to 
bring  to  its  readers  something  useful  and  practical. 
We  have  reviewed  the  daily  labors  indispensable  to 
all  classes  of  homes,  giving  whatever  suggestions  or 
criticisms  seemed  to  us  most  needed  or  desirable,  not 
only  as  regards  the  manual  labor  of  a  household,  but 
also  the  actions,  motives,  and  principles  which  build  up 
and  secure  the  happiness  of  a  family ;  or  which,  falsely 
understood  and  neglected,  must  lay  the  foundation  for 
misery  and  sin. 

We  have  been  requested  by  many  of  our  readers  to 
gather  these  talks  together,  for  the  more  convenient 
use  of  those  for  whom  they  were  written,  namely,  young 
housekeepers,  who,  marrying  before  their  domestic  edu- 
cation has  received  sufficient  attention,  daily  find  many 
stumbhng-blocks  in  their  way,  which  haply  a  word  fitly 
spoken  might  remove. 

Where  so  much  has  been  written  in  the  way  of  "  Ad- 
vice to  Young  Housekeepers,"  "  Household  Guides,"  etc.. 


xviu  INTRODUCTION. 

it  would  seem  superfluous  to  venture  on  this  well-worn 
track,  did  it  not  lead  to  a  portion  of  general  education 
too  little  thought  of,  where  "line  upon  line  and  pre- 
cept upon  precept"  are  peculiarly  needed. 

The  home  education  of  our  girls  is  often  sadly  neg- 
lected. Indulgent  mothers,  who  have  kept  their  daugh- 
ters in  school  from  earliest  childhood,  think  it  would 
be  cruel  to  ask  that  any  part  of  their  vacation  should 
be  usefully  employed.  It  must  all  be  given  to  relaxa- 
tion and  amusement,  leaving  the  knowledge  of  the 
homely  household  duties  which  would  enable  them 
to  superintend  and  adorn  a  happy  home  to  be  learned 
after  they  have  been  "gTaduated."  Yet  how  many 
young  girls  pass  from  the  seminary  at  once  into  mar- 
ried life,  and  on  their  first  entrance  into  society  are 
transformed  from  simple  school-girls  into  wives  and 
housekeepers  !  If  no  part  of  their  child-life  was  de- 
voted to  those  lessons,  which  none  should  be  able  to 
teach  so  kindly  and  so  thoroughly  as  a  mother,  what 
is  the  result  ?  The  liome  which  the  lover  dreamed  of, 
proves  dark  and  comfortless,  and  the  bride  is  too  often 
transformed  into  the  heartless  devotee  of  fasliion,  in- 
stead of  the  companion  and  helpmeet  God  designed  a 
wife  to  be. 

Young  ladies  would  soon  discover  the  richer  life  there 
is  in  one's  own  home,  if  they  were  early  initiated  into 
an  intimate  knowledge  of  the  whole  routine  of  home 
duties  and   household   mysteries,  so  that  when   they 


INTRODUCTION.  xix 

shall  be  exalted  to  the  dignity  of  the  mistress  of  a 
house,  they  can  with  good  judgment  and  intelligence 
direct  their  servants,  or  independently  perform  the 
lnhoT  of  a  family,  easily  and  methodically,  Avith  their 
own  hands.  With  such  knowledge,  and  the  ability  to 
execute,  they  can  greatly  augment  domestic  happiness 
and  add  new  lustre  to  their  charms  as  companion  and 
friend. 

True,  there  is  much  that  is  hard  and  disagreeable  in 
household  cares  and  labors ;  but  what  good  thing  do 
we  possess  that  does  not  require  thought,  effort,  and 
often  unpleasant  labor  before  we  come  into  the  fvill  pos- 
session and  enjoyment  of  it  ?  Under  any  self-denial 
or  hardship  experienced  in  the  performance  of  duty, 
there  is  a  great  comfort  in  the  knowledge  that,  the 
work  being  once  mastered  and  made  familiar,  any 
thought  of  drudgery  connected  with  it  disappears ;  and 
in  the  happy  consciousness  of  independence  and  power 
over  difficulties  one  finds  great  pleasure  and  full  com- 
pensation. 

In  preparing  these  articles  for  book  publication,  we 
have  not  attempted  to  Ijring  them  together  in  a  method- 
ical manner,  but  have  allowed  them  to  follow  one  an- 
other in  about  the  order  in  which  we  were  moved  to 
w^rite  them  by  the  daily  occurrences  around  us,  or  in 
reply  to  many  letters  from  discouraged  or  ready-to-lialt 
young  housekeepers.  Nor  have  we  presumed  to  give 
advice  or  instructions  to  old,  well-established  mothers 


XX  INTRODUCTION. 

and  housekeepers,  wlio  doubtless  knoAv  far  more  than 

we  do,  and  at  wliose  feet  we  would  cheerfully  sit  for 

instruction.     But  like  a  mother  in  the  midst  of  her 

young  daughters  we  have  desired  to  stand,  answering 

such  questions  as  they  would  naturally  ask,  pointing 

out    mistakes  that   they  are  Hkely  to  make,  showing 

where  the  error  lies,  and   trying   to  offer  a  remedy; 

not  in  household  affairs  alone,  but  in  many  phases  of 

the  duties  that  belong  to  the  wife  and  mother  as  well 

as  to  the  housekeeper.     To  give  some  little  assistance 

and  encouragement  in  every  effort  to  make  home  wliat 

it  should  be,  ŌĆö  the  happiest  place  on  earth,  ŌĆö  is  our 

earnest  desire. 

EUNICE  W.   BEECHER. 


PART    I. 

MOTHEELY  TALKS  WITH  Y0U:NG 
HOUSEKEEPEES. 


motheelt  talks  with  toul^g 
houseio:epees. 


I. 

SYSTEM   IN  WORK. 

"  T  HAVE  been  hard  at  work  all  day,"  we  think  we  hear 

JL  some  say ;  "up  stairs  and  down,  from  the  cellar  to 
the  attic,  looking  into  every  nook  and  comer,  and  *  putting 
things  to  rights '  generally.  O  dear  !  I  wonder  what  next 
those  grim  old  housekeepers  would  expect  me  to  take  hold 
of.  I  have  everything  in  good  running  order,  as  far  as  I 
can  see,  and  now  how  I  Avould  like  to  take  a  book  and  curl 
up  somewhere,  out  of  sight  and  hearing,  and  have  one  of  the 
old-fashioned  good  times  I  used  to  have  before  I  was  married. 
Well,  I  don't  care.  I  mean  to  have  it,  anyhow,  and  just  let 
things  go  on  without  my  watching,  for  a  while.  Nora  can 
manage  to  keep  the  house  in  order,  somehow,  now  I  have 
everything  in  its  right  place,  I  am  sure." 

Ah !  but,  my  dear  little  woman,  if  you  do  not  give  daily 
attention  to  your  household  affairs,  in  a  few  days,  under 
I^ora's  rule,  you  will  find  the  machinery  all  out  of  order,  and 
be  compelled  again  to  go  over  the  same  wearisome  labor  you 
now  complain  of. 

"  What  then  am  I  to  do  ]  From  this  time  on,  is  my  life 
to  be  a  perpetual  drudgery "?  " 

No  ;  not  if  you  are  wise.  Be  patient.  It  is  a  new  thing 
to  you  now.     Care  does  not  sit  Kglitly  on  young  shoulders  ; 


4        MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

but  time  and  a  reasonable  amount  of  patience  will  soon  make 
the  "  crookuil  ways  straight,  and  the  rough  places  smooth." 
A  few  weeks  of  extra  time  and  thought,  at  the  beginning  of 
your  new  life,  will  teach  you  how  to  work  methodically. 
Until  this  lesson  is  fixed  in  your  mind,  it  will  be  "  uphdl 
work  "  ;  but  persevere.  Have  a  regular  plan  for  each  day's 
work,  and  every  step  will  be  easier  and  more  natural. 

There  is  nothing  like  method  and  regularity  to  lighten 
labor.  We  have  so  many  poor,  discouraged,  repining  house- 
keepers, chiefly  because  they  were  not  taught  from  the  begin- 
ning to  work  methodically.  Let  this  once  become  a  fixed 
habit,  and  almost  every  one  can  find  leisure  for  reading  and 
recreation,  certainly  if  in  a  position  where  they  can  delegate 
the  hardest,  roughest  labor,  under  suitable  supervision,  to  a 
servant. 

Secure  a  few  moments  every  evening  to  think  over  and 
arrange  for  the  necessary  labor  of  the  morrow.  Bring  before 
your  mind  just  what  ought  to  be  done,  and  fix  the  mode  and 
time  for  doing  it  distinctly.  While  dressing,  the  next  morn- 
ing, review  your  plan,  that  all  through  the  day  it  may  be  like 
a  map  spread  out  before  your  eyes.  Of  course,  many  things 
may  occur  that  no  foresight  could  provide  for,  ŌĆö  sickness,  un- 
expected company,  or  interruptions  past  your  control,  ŌĆö  but 
nothing  that  can  wholly  derange  a  weU-digested  plan  for 
every  day's  duties. 

Try  this  mode  of  working  resolutely  for  a  few  months, 
and  labor  or  oversight  of  labor  wiU  become  so  nearly  a  sec- 
ond nature  that  you  will  arrange,  or  perform  almost  instinct- 
ively, even  with  pleasure,  that  which  now  seems  a  heavy 
burden,  grievous  to  be  borne.  To  show  just  what  may  be 
done,  let  us  take  a  glance  at  the  arrangements  for  washing 
and  ironing  days. 

Every  housekeeper  has  her  own  way  of  apportioning  the 
work  of  her  servants.     Where  there  are  three  girls,  many 


SYSTEM   IN   WORK.  5 

prefer  that  the  cook  should  take  charge  of  the  washing,  leav- 
ing either  waiter  or  chambermaid  to  do  the  cooking  Mondays 
and  Tuesdays.  If  these  are  tolerable  plain  cooks,  this  may 
answer ;  but,  generally,  on  those  two  days  the  table  is  less 
pleasantly  served  than  during  the  remainder  of  the  week. 

Now,  we  prefer  to  feel  as  sure  of  a  well-cooked  and  Avell- 
served  dinner  on  "  washing-day  "  as  on  any  other  day  in  the 
week.  For  that  reason,  we  think  it  a  more  excellent  way  to 
have  the  cook  understand  that  the  kitchen,  pantries,  and 
cooking  are  her  own  especial  care  ;  from  which,  until  that 
work  is  done,  she  is  not  to  be  called  to  assist  in  anything 
else.  This  plan,  we  think,  insures  a  more  orderly  kitchen, 
cleaner  pantries,  and  better  prepared  and  more  regular  meals, 
than  when  the  cooking  is  given  over,  two  days  in  the  Aveek, 
to  one  less  accustomed  to  it.  We  see  no  good  reason  why,  if 
company  happens  in  unexpectedly,  one  should  not  be  as  well 
prepared  to  serve  them  on  Monday  as  on  "VYednesday  or 
Thursday.  By  giving  the  washing  into  the  care  of  the  sec- 
ond girl,  we  think  one  may  escape  most  of  the  terrors  of 
"washing-day." 

Early  rising  should  be  one  of  the  Avell-understood  rules  of 
the  house,  for  the  servants  at  least.  As  soon  as  up,  on  Mon- 
day morning,  the  laundress's  first  work  is  to  light  the  fire,  if 
the  laundry  is  separate  from  the  kitchen  ;  if  not,  the  cook,  of 
course,  attends  to  that.  The  furnace  is  then  to  be  well  shaken 
and  cleaned  out,  fresh  coal  added,  and  the  ashes  sifted  and 
removed ;  which,  if  clone  every  day,  as  it  should  be,  is  but  a 
small  item  comparatively.  Sweeping  the  front  stairs,  hall, 
doorsteps,  sidewalk,  and  gutters  comes  next  in  order.  By  this 
time  the  fire  and  Avater  Avill  be  in  a  proper  state  to  commence 
Avashing;  and  that  once  begun,  the  laundress  should  be  exempt 
from  any  other  duty,  save  to  feed  the  furnace,  until  the  wash- 
ing is  finished  and  the  clothes  brought  in  and  folded. 

On  Tuesday  the  same  routine,  while  the  fire  is  kindling 


G        MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

and  the  irons  heating  ;  after  that  the  laundress  gives  her  un- 
divided attention  to  her  ironing.  She  should  be  up  in.  sea- 
son to  finish  sweeping  stairs,  hall,  etc.,  and  commence  her 
wasliing  and  ironing  by  seven  ;  and  then,  unless  the  washing 
is  very  large,  an  ordinarily  bright  girl  should  have  aU  finished 
by  Tuesday  night,  and  be  ready  to  give  her  full  time  to  the 
chamber- work,  ŌĆö  making  beds,  sweeping,  dusting,  washing 
windows,  etc.,  during  the  remainder  of  the  week. 

The  waitress  is  often  expected  to  take  charge  of  the  fur- 
nace, but  we  cannot  think  it  is  desirable.  If  there  is  a  fire 
to  be  lighted  in  the  parlor  or  sitting-room,  to  remove  the 
ashes,  wash  the  hearth,  and  have  the  rooms  dusted  and  in 
readiness  for  the  family,  and  then  put  her  table  in  order,  is 
all  that  she  will  be  likely  to  do  well.  Besides,  after  work- 
ing in  the  cellar  over  the  furnace,  she  cannot  be  fit  to  wait  on 
the  table  vrithout  taking  more  time  to  free  her  hair  and  dress 
from  ashes  and  dirt  than  she  can  spare,  if  you  would  have 
the  breakfast  served  promptly.  And  what  is  more  disgusting 
than  an  untidy  waitress  1  The  waitress  should  have  charge 
of  parlor,  dining-room,  silver,  answering  the  bell,  and  on 
Monday  and  Tuesday  do  the  chamber- work. 

Where  but  two  servants  are  kept,  ŌĆö  and  we  are  inclined  to 
think  the  fewer  servants  the  better  the  work  is  done,  ŌĆö  of 
course  the  two  must  divide  the  work,  each  assisting  in  the 
washing  and  ironing,  but  the  cook  still  retaining  the  charge 
of  the  meals. 


MARCH.  7 

II. 

MARCH. 

THE  morning  sun  shines  brightly,  the  air  is  mild  and 
balmy;  you" go  about  your  early  cares  with  a  cheerful 
spirit ;  and,  after  seeing  that  the  "  pickings  up,"  the  brushing 
and  dusting,  which  are  a  daily  necessity,  are  faithfully  per- 
formed, you  sit  down  to  your  sewing,  your  books,  or  your 
writing  in  a  satisfied  and  comfortable  state  of  mind.  But  in 
a  few  hours  the  sky  grows  dark  ;  grim  and  threatening  clouds 
obsciu"e  the  sun  ;  the  wind  sweeps  round  the  house  with  long, 
wailing  moans,  or  short,  fierce  gusts,  while  you  shiveringly 
draw  the  warm  breakfast-shawl  closer  about  you,  and  find 
that  you  have  suddenly  passed  into  a  far  less  genial  atmos- 
phere than  you  enjoyed  in  the  morning. 

March  may  come  in  a  very  mild  and  gentle  manner,  but 
don't  trust  it.  It  is  "  fooling  you."  Its  smiles  are  quickly 
followed  by  frowns,  and  the  bright,  warm  sunlight  all  too 
soon  will  be  forced  to  give  place  to  fierce  winds  and  drifting 
snows.  "We  are  quite  as  well  pleased  when  this,  the  first 
month  of  spring,  appears  in  its  own  proper  character,  ŌĆö 
windy,  stormy,  and  bitter  cold,  ŌĆö  for  then  we  hope  that  it 
will  make  its  exit  in  a  gentler  mood. 

Yes,  this  is  truly  March,  ŌĆö  cold,  raw,  and  bhastering  March, 
ŌĆö  which,  with  the  early  days  of  April,  before  the  winds  have 
fairly  died  out,  is  the  terror  of  all  careful  housekeepers,  ŌĆö  in- 
suring an  abundance  of  extra  work  ;  for  its  winds  and  storms 
will  force  an  entrance  into  every  part  of  the  house,  however 
securely  guarded.  No  burglar's  alarm  can  promise  safety 
from  this  insidious  foe.  "Windows,  pictures,  and  furniture, 
so  nicely  cleaned  and  polished  but  a  few  hours  since,  require 


8        MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

a  repetition  of  the  same  work  many  times  a  day.  Xo  month 
in  the  Avhole  year  demands  such  incessant  use  of  dusters, 
brushes,  and  brooms,  ŌĆö  such  unshimbering  watchfulness. 

Why  not  clean  once  a  day  and  then  let  the  dust  be  till 
next  morning  1 

Because,  if  allowed  to  remain,  it  soils  your  hands  and 
dresses,  spoils  your  pictures,  finds  lodgment  in  your  finely 
carved  statuary,  or  settles  in  the  graceful  designs  or  rich  up- 
holstery of  your  furniture.  Once  snugly  secreted  in  woollen 
or  plush,  dust  is  not  easily  removed,  but  becomes  the  favorite 
resort  for  moths,  affording  abundant  material  for  all  their 
wants.  There  is  no  month  in  the  whole  year  which  so  com- 
pletely makes  you  the  slave  of  the  broom  and  dusting-brush. 
If  there  is  a  carpenter  ingenious  enough  to  build  a  house  so 
tight  that  it  can  defy  the  searching  winds  of  March,  he  would 
most  certainly  be  a  universal  favorite  among  all  housekeepers. 
Under  the  doors,  from  the  top,  bottom,  and  sides  of  the  win- 
dows, in  at  the  key-holes,  ŌĆö  everywhere  the  dust  finds  an 
entrance.  No  table,  chair,  or  shelf  may  be  touched  without 
showing  the  presence  of  this  subtle  enemy.  Each  book,  pic- 
ture, or  article  of  dress  acknowledges  its  power.  Was  it  not 
in  the  month  of  March  that  the  plague  of  dust  tormented  the 
Egyptians?  Unless  some  learned  interpreter  of  the  Bible 
can  prove  the  contrary,  we  are  inclined  to  accept  this  idea. 
There  is  no  other  season  of  the  year  when  one  feels  so  little 
courage,  for  we  camiot  "rest  from  our  labors."  However 
faithfully  the  work  may  be  done,  an  hour  will  destroy  all 
trace  of  our  industry.  Then  why  attempt  to  do  it  1  Why 
not  let  all  cleaning  cease  till  March  gives  place  to  its  betters, 
and  then  have  a  general  purification  1 

If  there  were  no  other  reason  for  patient  continuance  in 
well-doiug,  notwithstanding  all  discouragements,  the  injury 
done  to  carpets  and  furniture  would  be  a  good  and  sufficient 
one.    With  the  strong  March  winds  the  dust  is  so  thoroughly 


MARCH.  9 

sifted  into  the  threads  of  carpets,  and  into  the  moldings  and 
ornaments  of  furniture,  that  if  not  very  often  removed,  it 
would  be  almost  impossible  ever  to  do  it.  The  sharp  grains 
of  dust  would  sink  into  the  carpets,  and  the  friction  of  walk- 
ing over  them  would  wear  out  the  material  more  in  this 
month  than  in  any  two  months  of  the  year.  Heavy  broca- 
telle  curtains  and  delicate  lace  are  very  easily  defaced  and 
injured  by  the  dust,  if  not  often  shaken  and  freed  from  the 
constant  accumulation. 

It  cannot  be  helped ;  through  aU  this  windy,  unmanage- 
able season,  frequent  usings  of  dusters  and  brushes  are  inevita- 
ble, and,  if  thoroughly  applied,  aside  from  the  economy  of  it, 
will  greatly  lighten  the  labor  of  the  spring  house-cleaning. 

A  good  beating  with  a  furniture  whip  (two  or  three  ratans, 
lightly  braided  or  twisted  together,  and  the  ends  united  in  a 
handle,  found  at  any  house-furnishing  store)  is  an  excellent 
thmg  to  dislodge  dust  from  chairs,  sofas,  table-covers,  mat- 
tresses, etc,  but  the  beating  must  be  followed  by  the  use  of 
the  feather-brush  over  all,  and  an  old  silk  handkerchief  for 
polished  or  highly  varnished  furniture. 

Windows  are  very  difficult  to  keep  bright  and  clean  at  this 
season  of  the  year.  If  there  is  rain  or  snow,  it  is  usually  fol- 
lowed by  high  winds,  which  dry  the  streets  and  very  soon 
cover  the  damp  windows  with  a  storm  of  dust,  ŌĆö  settling  into 
the  molding  and  around  the  sash  to  such  a  degree  that  it  will 
require  much  time  and  hard  work  to  remove  ;  and  even  while 
washing  them,  the  dust  is  still  swept  over  the  windows.  It 
is  wise,  when  windows  are  so  quickly  and  easily  defaced,  to 
wet  a  clean,  smooth  cloth  in  a  little  whiskey  or  alcohol,  and 
cleanse  the  glass  with  it.  It  removes  the  dirt  much  more 
thoroughly  and  gives  a  better  polish  to  the  glass  than  water 
can,  and  evaporates  so  quickly  that  the  dust  will  not  so  read- 
ily adhere.  This  may  be  liable  to  objections  on  the  ground 
of  economy ;  but,  for  three  or  four  weeks  it  is  much  more 
1* 


10      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

effective,  and  makes  the  work  so  much  easier,  that  we  are 
inchned  to  think  it  is  not  extravagant.  Of  course  it  must 
be  used  with  judgment.     A  little  will  be  sufficient. 

Now,  more  than  any  other  part  of  the  year,  the  ashes  must 
be  removed  from  the  cellar,  if  you  have  a  furnace,  faithfully 
every  morning.  If  allowed  to  accumulate,  a  heavy  wind 
will  send  them  up  through  the  flues  and  registers,  to  settle 
in  the  carpets  or  furniture,  and  do  more  injury  than  the  dust, 
because  the  alkali  in  the  ashes  will  eat  the  texture  and  injure 
the  colors. 

Then,  again,  it  is  important  that  on  washing-days  some  at- 
tention should  be  paid  to  the  wind.  It  is  a  great  trial  to  a 
methodical  housekeeper  to  put  off  the  week's  washing  for  a 
day  or  two.  It  seems  to  derange  all  the  work  planned  for 
other  days,  and  makes  one  feel  unsettled,  as  if  everything 
was  sadly  out  of  joint.  It  is  not  at  all  pleasant  to  consent 
to  such  innovation,  but  March  is  a  tyrant,  and  in  the  end  it 
is  better  to  submit  to  its  caprices.  To  see  all  your  clothes  on 
the  line  at  the  mercy  of  a  real  March  wind,  would  be  worse 
than  to  defer  the  washing  and  wait  for  a  milder  day.  The 
clothes  will  be  more  injured  and  worn  by  one  day's  snapping 
on  the  line,  in  a  very  high  wind,  than  in  weeks  of  wear ;  and 
unless  one  has  a  good,  roomy  attic  with  windows  at  each  end 
to  admit  free  air,  it  is  wise,  if  not  agreeable,  to  put  the  clothes 
in  soak,  after  washing,  in  plenty  of  clear  water,  and  wait  for 
the  calm,  or  defer  the  entire  washing  to  that  propitious  mo- 
ment. 

Yet  a  good,  brisk  March  wind,  with  an  unclouded  sky,  has 
its  excellences.  There  is  no  better  time  to  put  blankets,  car- 
riage-robes, and  heavy  whiter  garments  out  to  air.  If  not 
left  out  too  long,  such  heavy  articles  Avill  not  be  liable  to  so 
much  injury,  by  whipping  on  the  lines,  as  cotton  and  linen, 
and  it  is  an  excellent  and  effective  way  to  free  these  cum- 
brous garments  from  dust  and  moths. 


SPRING   LABOR.  11 

These  are  only  a  few  of  the  reasons  for  the  necessity  of 
more  than  usual  vigilance  in  this  stormy  month  of  March  ; 
they  are  but  hints  to  call  attention  to  the  subject.  Your  own 
good  sense,  kept  awake  by  the  wild  wind  that  is  shaking 
the  windows  as  we  write,  and  bending  the  tall  masts  beyond, 
will  enable  you  to  carry  them  out  more  minutely  and  practi- 
cally than  we  shall  attempt  at  present  to  do. 


III. 
SPRING  LABOR. 


MOTHS.  ŌĆö  The  first  few  days  of  April  are  too  near  kin 
to  March  to  warrant  any  decided  steps  toward  the  regu- 
lar spring  house-cleaning ;  but  it  is  quite  time  now  that  spe- 
cial attention  be  paid  to  moths  and  their  characteristic  de- 
structiveness. 

In  furnace-heated  houses,  moths  are  occasionally  found  in 
mid-winter ;  but  they  are  only  the  advance  guard  of  the 
main  army,  and  do  Httle  harm,  save  by  the  annoying  re- 
minder of  what  one  has  cause  to  fear  in  spring. 

In  April  they  will  begin  to  show  themselves  very  much  in 
earnest,  and  are  seen  too  often  for  your  comfort,  particularly 
after  the  gas  or  lamp  is  lighted.  If  an  expert,  you  may  de- 
stroy many,  as,  attracted  by  the  bright  light  which  lures  them 
to  destruction,  they  fly  around  you ;  yet  enough  remain  to 
keep  you  constantly  on  the  lookout.  We  know  of  no  remedy, 
when  moths  have  once  gained  entrance  to  a  house,  but  cease- 
less Avatchfulness.  They  often  deposit  their  eggs  in  the 
fret-work  and  open  spaces  in  cornices,  as  well  as  in  wool- 
lens and  furs,  and  therefore  all  such  hiding-places  should  be 
carefully  searched.      In  high-studded  rooms  it  is  difficult  to 


12      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

reach  these  sheltered  nooks,  and  therefore  in  them  moths 
too  often  find  a  secure  retreat.  But  although  difficult,  it  is 
not  impossible  to  dislodge  them,  even  from  these  high  places. 
A  tall  step-ladder,  with  a  little  care  and  some  one  to  steady- 
it  at  the  base,  can  easily  be  mounted,  and  from  this  height 
you  readily  gain  access  to  your  enemies.  If  the  carving  is 
deep  and  intricate,  take  a  quiU,  and  with  the  feather-end 
brush  out  these  holes  into  a  dust-pan ;  foUow  this  brushing 
with  a  wet  cloth  wrapped  round  a  pointed  stick.  It  takes 
time,  care,  and  patience,  but  is  very  necessary.  In  houses 
that  are  not  often  painted,  you  will  probably  find  large  quan- 
tities of  dust  and  lint  that  have  accumulated  and  settled,  from 
sweeping,  in  the  cornices.  In  this  the  moths  deposit  their 
eggs  ;  and,  when  hatched,  the  worm  which  eats  your  garments 
may  be  found  here,  snugly  rolled  in  its  thin  covering,  or  per- 
haps just  ready  to  fly  through  your  house,  depositing  its  eggs 
for  the  next  generation  of  moths. 

A  new  house,  left  for  months  unoccupied,  or  an  old  house 
long  untenanted,  it  is  said,  will  surely  be  overrun  with  moths. 
For  this  we  do  not  vouch,  but  are  quite  inclined  to  credit  it. 
Our  first  experience  of  the  plague  of  moths  was  on  taking 
possession  of  a  house,  almost  new,  that  had  stood  empty 
some  months,  ŌĆö  a  dearly  bouglit  experience,  the  debt  for 
which  is  not  fally  cancelled  after  more  than  fourteen  years. 
In  aU  the  cornice  ornaments  we  found  large  quantities  of  the 
eggs  and  worms  snugly  laid  to  sleep,  till  the  warm  spring  sun 
should  rouse  them  to  begin  their  mischievous  expeditions 
among  our  furs,  blankets,  and  garments.  Many  were  fidly 
developed,  and  flying  about  in  search  of  some  choice  place  to 
deposit  their  eggs. 

The  spring  and  summer  are  their  busiest  time  ;  and  as  soon 
as  it  is  warm  enough  to  dispense  with  furs,  heavy  shawls,  and 
woollen  garments,  these  should  be  well  shaken  and  brushed, 
then  hung  on  the  clothes-line  and  beaten  with  the  furiii- 


SPRING  LABOR.  13 

ture  whip,  every  spot  or  stain  cleansed,  and  repairs  attended 
to  before  being  done  up  and  put  away  for  the  summer.  Each 
housekeeper  has  probably  her  own  theory  as  to  the  best  way 
for  packing  up  such  articles  as  moths  injure.  Some  put 
pepper,  camphor,  cedar-chips,  sandal-wood,  or  moth-powder 
among  the  articles  to  be  stored  away,  and  then  sew  them 
up  closely  in  old  linen,  or  cover  them  with  two  or  three 
thicknesses  of  paper,  lapping  one  over  the  other,  leaving  no 
holes,  and  then  seal  the  paper  up  with  mucilage.  We  prefer 
the  paper  wrappings,  but  feel  a  little  safer  if  we  sprinkle 
Poole's  moth-powder  over  the  articles  before  sealing. 

We  have  been  told  that  strips  of  cluth  dipped  in  kerosene, 
rolled  up  and  placed  among  flannels,  furs,  etc.,  which  should 
then  be  shut  tight  in  a  cedar  trunk  or  close  drawer,  will  surely 
prevent  moths  from  injuring  them,  destroying  the  eggs  or  such 
moth  worms  as  are  already  iu  possession. 

This  appears  sensible,  inasmuch  as  moths  are  said  to  be 
repelled  by  any  pungent,  disagreeable  smell.  And  surely,  if 
that  be  so,  kerosene  would  be  most  deadly. 

In  carpets,  moths  generally  seek  the  corners  and  secluded 
places.  For  that  reason  it  is  essential  that  in  sweeping,  at 
all  seasons  of  the  year,  one  should  see  that  great  attention  is 
paid  to  the  corners  and  edges  of  carpets.  JN^ever  attempt  to 
sweep  there  with  a  common  broom.  You  cannot  get  at  the 
comers.  Take  a  whisk-broom  or  a  round,  pointed  brush,  such 
as  is  used  to  clean  buttoned  furniture,  called  a.  furniture  hut- 
ton-brush,  and  with  it  clean  out  the  corners  where  the  carpet 
is  turned  in.  Have  close  at  hand  a  pointed  stick,  which, 
with  a  cloth  wrapped  about  it,  will  enable  you  to  pry  into 
every  nook  thoroughly.  Every  few  weeks  it  is  well  to  draw 
the  tacks  in  the  corners  a  little  way,  and,  turning  back  the 
carpet  on  to  a  thick  paper  or  old  cloth,  give  the  edges  a 
faithful  brushing.  It  is  under  and  near  these  corners  that 
moths  love  to  secrete  their  eggs. 


U      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPEKS. 

IV. 

SUNSHINE  AND   FRESH  AIR. 

FEW  realize  how  dependent  we  are  on  sunshine  and  fresh 
air  for  good  health  and  pleasant,  cheerful  homes.  When 
shown  into  a  dark  and  dismal  parlor,  ŌĆö  blinds  all  closed  and 
heavy  curtains  dropped  to  exclude  light,  ŌĆö  and  creeping  for- 
ward in  search  of  a  seat,  fearing,  each  step,  to  stumble  over  a 
chair  or  upset  a  table  loaded  with  small  wares  on  exhibition, 
we  always  feel  suffocated,  as  if  in  a  vault  among  dead 
men's  bones.  And  when  the  servant,  after  calling  her  mis- 
tress, returns  and  opens  the  shutters  just  far  enough  to  allow 
one  small  ray  of  "  light  divine  "  to  struggle  through,  what  a 
relief  it  is  !  How  we  long  to  spring  forward,  throw  back  the 
curtains,  swing  the  bHnds  wide  open,  and  give  admittance  to 
the  fidl  glory  of  the  free,  glad  sunbeams.  But  no  !  Health 
and  comfort  must  be  sacrificed  rather  than  expose  the  costly 
carpet  and  rich  curtains.  Only  so  much  light  as  will  enable 
our  friend  to  recognize  us  may  be  allowed  to  enter,  and  after 
a  few  moments'  conversation,  as  cold  and  spiritless  as  the 
room  itself,  how  glorious  seem  the  clear  sky  and  pure  air  as 
we  leave  the  house  !  We  are  so  chilled  and  benumbed  by 
our -short  tarry  in  those  prison- like  parlors,  that  it  has  pene- 
trated to  the  heart,  and  we  are  not  quite  sure  that  we  feel  any 
great  affection  for  the  friend  from  whom  we  have  just  parted, 
until,  having  walked  a  few  moments,  we  regain  life  and  fresh- 
ness by  a  full  bath  in  the  fresh  breezes  and  invigorating  sun- 
shine. 

Strange  that  any  will  deprive  themselves  of  blessings  so 
rich,  so  free,  and  health-giving  for  a  mere  fancy,  ŌĆö  particu- 
larly when  we  find  that  the  richest  and  most  beautiful  fabrics 


SUNSHINE  AND   FRESH   AIR.  16 

are  generally  those  which  will  bear  exposure  to  open  win- 
dows and  pure  light. 

That  perfect  ventilation  and  abundance  of  light  and  sun 
are  indispensable  to  a  healthy  atmosphere  all  over  the  house, 
should  be  understood  as  one  of  the  principles  of  good  house- 
keeping. Servants  are  generally  careless  in  airing  the  rooms 
committed  to  their  care.  Bedrooms,  dining-rooms,  kitchen, 
and  pantries  are  seldom  sufficiently  ventilated ;  and  it  behooves 
a  housekeeper  to  maintain  a  constant  watchfulness  against 
such  remissness.  As  soon  as  you  are  dressed,  throw  open  the 
window,  take  off  the  bedclothes,  spread  them  neatly  across  two 
chairs  set  in  the  draught,  ŌĆö  taking  care  that  the  ends  do  not 
drag  on  the  floor.  Eaise  up  the  mattress ;  double  it  like  a 
bent  bow  on  the  under-bed,  or  palliasse,  that  the  air  may  cir- 
culate freely  through  and  around  it.  Beat  up  the  pillows 
and  bolster,  and  throw  them  across  a  chair  near  the  open 
window.  Some  hang  them  out  of  the  window.  All  right,  if 
you  are  careful  first  to  brush  the  sill  free  from  the  dust  that 
will,  of  course,  accumulate  there.  When  ready  to  leave  the 
chamber,  open  the  doors  through  from  one  room  to  another, 
even  if  some  rooms  have  not  been  used  ;  but  be  careful,  in  cold 
weather,  to  close  the  doors  leading  to  the  halls,  that  parlors 
and  halls  be  not  made  uncomfortable  by  too  much  draught. 

Children,  boys  and  girls  alike,  should  be  instructed  never 
to  leave  their  bedrooms  without  at  least  throwing  back  the 
bedclothes  and  raising  the  windows ;  and  guests  in  a  family, 
one  would  suppose,  will  do  this  for  their  own  comfort ;  but 
it  is  well  that  every  housekeeper  should  be  sure  that  it  is 
done  before  she  goes  to  the  kitchen  or  breakfast-room.  It  is 
particularly  desirable  that  our  children  become  accustomed  to 
this  kind  of  care  and  attention  to  their  sleeping-rooms  ;  for  if 
the  habit  is  fixed  in  early  youth,  when  absent  from  a  moth- 
er's care,  in  school,  college,  or  business,  and  compelled  to 
board,  whatever  other  discomforts  they  may  be  subjected  to, 


16   MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

they  can  secure  for  themselves  weU-ventilated  beds  and  sleep- 
ing-rooms. If,  from  extra  morning  duties  or  ill  health,  you 
are  not  able  to  attend  to  this  part  of  the  chamber-work  your- 
self, then,  as  soon  as  the  rooms  are  all  vacated,  the  chamber- 
maid should  go  to  them  at  once,  taking  with  her  the  chamber 
pail  and  cloths,  and,  first  opening  the  windows  and  putting 
bedclothes  and  mattresses  to  air,  as  above  mentioned,  should 
empty  all  slops,  wash  out  the  washstands  and  all  pertaining 
to  them,  ŌĆö  pitchers,  soap-cup,  tooth  and  nail  brush  holders,  ŌĆö 
gather  up  aU  dirty  clothes  and  towels,  and  put  them  into  the 
basket,  or,  if  wet,  hang  up  to  dry.  By  the  time  this  is  faith- 
fully done,  the  chambermaid  will  be  ready  to  go  to  her  own. 
breakfast,  leaving  the  windows  open,  unless  in  stormy  weather, 
and  the  beds  unmade.  Keep  strict  watch  that  the  servants 
do  not  fail  to  air  their  own  rooms  and  spread  open  their  beds 
when  they  come  down  to  their  early  morning's  work.  ]*^ever 
fear  to  open  chamber  windows  in  stormy  weather.  If  the 
rain  or  snow  beats  in  badly,  drop  the  window  from  the  top 
a  little  way,  or  spread  an  old  bit  of  bagging  or  oil-cloth  before - 
the  window  to  protect  the  carpet ;  but  in  sjDite  of  wind  or 
weather,  have  a  fuU  current  of  fresh  air  pass  through  your 
bedchambers  every  morning.  Once  a  week  mattresses  must 
be  thoroughly  brushed  with  a  whisk-broom,  and  the  tufts  or 
buttons  that  tack  them  together  cleaned  with  a  round  pointed 
brush,  called  a  button-brush,  so  that  no  lint  or  dust  can  lodge 
about  them  to  shelter  moths.  When  free  from  lint  and  dirt, 
throw  the  mattress  across  a  table,  or  spread  on  the  floor  an 
old  sheet  kept  for  that  purpose,  and  lay  it  on  that.  In  the 
same  manner  brush  the  under-bed ;  then  turn  it  up  and  with 
a  wet  cloth  wipe  off  the  inside  of  the  bedstead,  raising  up  the 
slats  that  no  lint  may  remain  lodged  there.  By  such  care 
you  will  save  much  trouble  from  moths  and  bugs.  It  is  well 
to  attend  to  this  on  Friday,  or  whichever  day  may  be  set 
apart  for  sweeping,  as  lint  may  be  dropped  on  the  carpet,  and 
should  be  at  once  removed. 


HOUSE  CLEANING.  17 


HOUSE-CLEANING. 

"  nr  AST  year  I  thought  house-cleaning  would  be  '  real 
i  J  fun.'  I  had  never  before  taken  the  entire  charge  of 
such  extensive  operations,  and  thought,  in  my  simplicity,  that 
I  would  show  the  old  ladies  how  a  smart  young  housekeeper 
would  walk  through  the  fiery  furnace,  with  not  even  the 
smell  of  fire  upon  her  garments.  But  I  little  dreamed  what 
I  had  undertaken.  I  found  out,  however,  before  the  '  fun  ' 
was  ended,  to  my  entire  satisfaction,  and  now,  in  this  my 
second  year  of  housekeeping,  look  forward  to  the  spring 
cleaning  with  the  greatest  repugnance  ;  gladly  enduring  all 
the  cold,  the  winds,  and  stonns  of  early  spring,  because 
they  postpone  the  evil  day.  But  now  milder  weather  and 
warmer  suns  are  upon  us,  and  this  great  nuisance  may  be  no 
longer  deferred.  How  I  dread  it !  No  regularity,  all  rules 
abolished,  servants  rebellious,  husband  ŌĆö  to  put  it  mildly  ŌĆö 
uncomfortable  ;  baby  cross,  and  I  ŌĆö  the  Grossest  of  all  ]  0 
dear!     What  shall  I  do ?" 

"What  shall  you  do  %  Take  it  easy.  Patience,  my  child, 
the  oldest  panacea,  is  still  the  sovereign  cure  for  such  trials. 
But  why  "  borrow  trouble  "  %  For  weeks  you  have,  in  im- 
agination, been  carrying  this  burden  which  you  so  much 
dread.  Wait  till  the  proper  time  comes  to  take  it  up.  Give 
each  hour  its  own  work  ;  do  not  permit  yourself  to  groan 
over  that  which  belongs  to  the  next ;  and  you  will  find  the 
heaviest  and  most  disagreeable  labor,  if  arranged  and  per- 
formed systematically,  glide  smoothly  through  your  hands. 
When  it  is  finished,  you  will  look  back  in  amused  surprise  at 
the  "  bugbear  "  you  had  conjured  up  for  your  own  torment. 


18      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEICEEPERS. 

True,  what  is  generally  understood  as  regular  "  spring  house- 
cleaning  "  is  not  a  pleasant  operation  ;  but  is  it  absolutely 
necessary  that  this  important  part  of  household  duties  should 
be  made  a  terror  to  all  in  the  house  1  We  think  not.  When 
furnace,  grates,  and  stoves,  have  been  in  constant  use  for  six 
or  seven  months,  and  gas  or  lamps  are  burning  many  hours 
each  night,  a  very  thorough  house-cleaning  is  indispensable. 
jSTo  care  can  prevent  smoke,  ashes,  and  gas  defacing  walls 
and  ceiling,  and  finding  a  lodgment  in  carpets  and  furniture, 
all  over  the  house.  And  it  is  necessary  that  the  warm  spring 
days  should  be  devoted  to  cleaning  and  renovating ;  but  cer- 
tainly not  to  the  exclusion  of  real  home  comforts  and  pleas- 
ures, while  this  work  is  in  progress.  It  is  folly  to  commence 
by  putting  the  whole  house  into  disorder ;  displacing  every- 
thing, leaving  no  room  in  habitable  condition,  that  by  and 
by  you  may,  from  this  utter  desolation,  bring  order  out  of 
confusion. 

It  is  best  to  commence  with  the  cellar,  and  the  first  thing 
to  be  done,  after  seeing  that  the  coal-bins  are  in  order,  is  to 
have  your  coal  for  the  year  put  in.  It  is  usually  as  cheap, 
and  often  cheaper,  in  the  spring  than  in  the  faU.  The  coal 
safely  housed,  have  the  furnace  emptied  and  put  in  thorough 
repair.  Eemove  all  the  ashes.  If  you  have  an  ash- vault,  or 
bin  containing  the  ashes  of  the  whole  winter,  you  will  re- 
quire a  man  to  do  it ;  but  if ŌĆö  which  is  much  wiser  - ŌĆö ŌĆó  the 
ashes  have  been  sifted  and  removed  every  day,  it  is  no  burden, 
and  but  a  few  minutes'  work.  Then  aU  bits  of  waste  boards, 
boxes,  and  barrels,  no  longer  usable,  should  be  chopped  fine 
and  stored  Avith  the  kindling  wood.  If  dust  and  cobwebs 
have  been  overlooked,  brush  them  down  very  carefully ; 
sweep  the  ceUar  bottom,  and,  if  it  is  of  stone  or  cemented, 
scrub  it  clean.  If  all  this  has  been  done  every  week,  as  it 
should  be,  ŌĆö  save  the  putting  in  coal  and  repairing  the 
furnace,  ŌĆö  it  wiU  be  only  a  piece  of  regular  work ;  but  it 


HOUSE-CLEANING.  19 

must  be  done  before  any  other  cleaning  is  attempted,  else 
the  coal  dust  and  ashes  will  penetrate  every  part  of  the 
house,  and  render  all  your  labor  useless.  No  door  or  win- 
dow can  be  shut  so  closely  that  they  will  not  force  an  en- 
trance. Be  careful  to  shut  the  "  registers  "  from  the  furnace 
in  every  room,  before  moving  ashes  or  coal. 

The  cellar  being  in  order,  the  next  step  is  to  the  attic.  If 
it  has  been  properly  attended  to  through  the  winter,  it  is  no 
hard  task  to  make  it  fresh  and  clean,  unless  you  allow  it  to  be 
made  the  "  catch-all "  for  every  kind  of  useless  trash.  If  not 
"  hard  finished,"  the  walls  should  be  nicely  whitewashed  or 
calcimined,  after  the  attic  has  been  swept  and  dusted.  This 
done,  scrub  the  floor  faithfully  ;  polish  the  windows,  and  ar- 
range neatly  all  that  properly  belongs  to  the  attic.  If  you 
have  pieces  of  carpeting  stored  there,  they  should  be  taken 
into  the  back  yard,  well  brushed,  and  spread  on  the  grass  or 
hung  on  the  line,  the  first  thing,  before  the  cleaning  is 
begun. 

The  cellar  and  attic  in  order,  you  are  ready  for  the  upper 
chambers.  If  you  can  afford  it,  it  is  well  to  secure  four  good 
house-cleaners,  and  by  putting  two  in  one  chamber  and  two 
in  another,  keeping  up  a  quiet,  but  vigilant  superintendence 
of  both  parties,  you  will  find,  if  the  work  is  well  contrived, 
and  each  part  arranged  in  regular  succession,  it  will  be  done 
more  quickly,  more  effectually,  and  with  more  economy,  than 
to  endeavor  to  drag  through  with  little  help. 

Ingrain  and  three-ply  carpets  must  be  lifted  every  year, 
and  that  is  the  first  thing  to  be  done.  Brussels  and  velvet 
do  not  need  to  be  taken  up  oftener  than  every  two  years  ; 
while  heavy  Wiltons,  Axminster,  and  Moquettes  should  not 
be  removed  oftener  than  every  three  years.  The  texture  is 
so  firm,  no  dust  works  through  to  the  carpet  lining  beneath, 
and  faithful  sweeping  and  thorough  use  of  the  "  carpet- 
sweeper  "  will  remove  the  dust  and  moth's  eggs.     Extra  care 


20      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

will  be  required  to  clean  and  brush  in  corners,  and  wherever 
the  carpets  are  turned  in  and  nailed  ;  and  they  must  also  be 
protected,  while  the  walls,  ceiling,  and  wood-work  are  being 
cleaned,  by  a  heavy  drugget  spread  over  them,  and  moved 
from  place  to  place  as  the  cleaning  progresses. 

When  washing  painted  walls  and  ceihngs,  take  care  in  dry- 
ing them  that  they  are  wiped  in  straight  lines,  from  top  to 
bottom,  and  not  unevenly,  or  in  circles ;  for  however  clean 
you  may  wash  the  paint,  careless  wiping  will  give  it  a  streaked 
and  untidy  appearance. 

Brush  wall-paper  carefully  with  a  feather  duster,  and  then 
pin  a  large  towel  tightly  to  a  clean  soft  broom,  and  placing 
it  up  to  the  ceiling,  bring  it,  with  an  even  pressure,  in  a 
straight  line  down  to  the  mop-board  or  casing.  Proceed  in 
this  way  until  you  have  gone  over  the  entire  paper.  It  will 
be  necessary  to  change  the  towel  when  it  looks  soiled.  If 
this  work  is  well  done,  the  paper  wiU  look  almost  as  fresh  as 
new. 

In  cleaning  door-knobs,  bell-puUs,  or  speaking-trumpets, 
cut  a  hole  in  a  piece  of  oil-silk  or  soft  oil-cloth,  and  put  it 
round  the  knob  or  bell-pull,  etc.,  to  protect  the  paper  or  paint 
from  being  soiled. 

We  have  no  room  to  carry  these  suggestions  further  at 
present,  and  leave  your  good,  earnest,  common-sense  to  prac- 
tice and  improve  upon  them. 


WASHING-DAY.  21 

VI. 
WASHING-DAY. 

"  irr  it  were  not  for  the  washing,  housekeeping  would  lose 
-L  half  its  terror.  But  I  rise  every  Monday  morning  in  a 
troubled  and  unliappy  state  of  mind,  for  it  is  ivashirig-day  ! 
The  breakfast  will  surely  be  a  failure,  coifee  muddy,  meat  or 
hash  uncooked  or  burnt  to  a  coal,  everything  untidy  on  the 
table,  and  the  servants  on  the  verge  of  rebellion.  "With  a 
meek  and  siibdued  countenance,  with  fear  and  trembling,  lest 
some  unlucky  word  of  mine  may  infringe  upon  their  dignity 
and  cause  them  to  leave  before  the  washing  is  finished,  I  go 
softly  about  the  house." 

This  ought  not  so  to  be.  In  the  first  place,  if  you  allow 
yourself  to  be  kept  thus  in  bondage  to  your  servants,  you  de- 
stroy all  hope  of  comfort.  Let  them  once  see  that  you  fear 
to  give  them  offence,  and  from  that  hour  they  are  your 
tyrants. 

Define,  distinctly,  the  appropriate  duties  of  each  ;  but  with 
this  proviso,  that  in  emergencies  they  will  be  required  to  lend 
a  helping  hand  in  any  department  where  their  services  are 
needed.  Let  them  understand,  unmistakably,  what  your  rules 
are,  ŌĆö  for  you  cannot  manage  a  household  without  well-digest- 
ed laws  and  regulations,  ŌĆö  then  kindly,  but  firmly,  make  them 
know  that  you  will  have  no  infringement  upon  those  rules. 

"  I  wonder  how  long  any  girl,  my  Bridget,  for  instance, 
would  stay,  were  I  to  take  such  independent  ground." 

Probably  not  long,  if  she  has  learned  that  she  can  intimi- 
date you ;  and  once  aware  of  that,  the  sooner  she  takes  her 
leave  the  better  for  your  future  peace,  ŌĆö  that  is,  if  you  will 
be  taught  by  this  experience  to  begin  right  with  her  successor. 


22      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Those  servants  wlio  fully  recognize  the  lady  as  their  mistress, 
in  something  more  than  name,  are  generally  the  most  respect- 
ful and  reliabh^, 

Never  allow  a  girl  to  give  a  disrespectful  answer  or  mani- 
fest irritability,  simply  because  the  work  for  some  days  in 
the  week  may  be  more  distasteful  than  in  others ;  and  never 
permit  them  to  threaten  to  leave  you  without  insisting  that 
the  threat  shall  be  carried  into  effect,  unless  an  ample  apology 
is  given ;  for,  if  passed  over  submissively,  it  will  be  repeated 
whenever  the  girl's  temper  is  ruffled.  Not  for  our  own  self- 
ish comfort  alone,  but  for  the  good  of  all  who  are  compelled 
to  employ  servants,  should  we  defend  our  own  rights  and 
position  ;  not  till  there  is  concerted  action  and  organized 
rules  that  will  define  the  duties  and  rights  of  mistress  and 
maid,  and  these  rules  strictly  enforced,  will  this  plague,  which 
leaves  us  at  the  mercy  of  our  servants,  be  stayed. 

And  now  let  us  see  if  there  is,  really,  any  good  reason  why 
washing-day  should  be  so  full  of  terror.  If  one  is  feeble,  it 
is  not  easy,  nothing  is ;  but  to  a  strong,  healthy  person,  it 
ought  not  to  be  burdensome,  even  if  one  is  obliged  to  do  it 
one's  own  self,  particularly  with  the  aid  of  all  the  "  modern 
improvements."  The  apportionment  of  duties  we  have  al- 
ready considered,  in  Chapter  I. 

Twenty  years  ago  the  tubs  and  wash-benches  were  to  be 
brought  from  the  cellar  or  area,  all  the  water  pumped,  and 
often  carried  some  distance,  heated  m  a  boiler,  then  poured 
into  the  tubs,  and  every  article  wrung  out  by  hand.  Then, 
in  the  city,  tubs  were  carried  out  into  the  streets  and  the  dirty 
suds  emptied  into  the  gutter.  But  there  was  little  complaint 
then  of  hard  work.  "What  would  the  girl  of  the  present  day 
think  if  expected  to  work  under  such  disadvantages  % 

Now  we  have  hot  and  cold  water  in  the  laundry,  wringers, 
"  tubs  set,"  generally,  which  can  be  emptied  at  pleasure, 
without  a  step,  making  the  washing  of  a  medium-sized  fam- 


WASHING-DAY.  23 

ily  not  as  laborious  as  the  Friday  sweeping  of  a  large  house. 
With  one  or  two  servants  in  the  house,  to  divide  the  work, 
Avashing  is  not  and  should  not  be  considered  a  hardship. 

Put  the  clotlies  to  soak  overnight,  rubbing  soap  on  the 
collars,  wristbands,  bindings,  etc.,  of  each  article.  We  have 
found  Babliitt's  soap  very  satisfactory,  safe,  and  much  more 
economical  than  most  soap.  It  is  excellent  for  bleaching. 
Cut  uj)  several  cakes  in  sufficient  water  to  dissolve  them,  and 
let  it  boil  till  the  soap  is  all  dissolved,  then  pour  it  into  a 
wooden  pail,  or  old  butter-tub  that  is  well  cleaned,  and  when 
cold  it  will  be  nice  soft  soap,  and  keep  well  as  long  as  it  lasts. 
This  is  a  good  way  to  prepare  any  soap  for  soaking  or  boiling 
clothes.  But  it  is  more  economical  to  have  a  cake  of  hard 
soap,  to  use  for  the  dirty  spots,  while  washing. 

Eub  soft  soap  on  the  dirtiest  parts  of  each  garment,  when 
you  put  them  to  soak,  and  just  cover  them  with  water. 
Table  linen  should  be  soaked  in  a  separate  tub,  and  washed 
first ;  the  line  clothes,  sheets,  and  pillow-cases  put  in  another, 
and  stockings  and  coarse  things  in  a  third  tub. 

Early  Monday  morning  wring  out  the  clothes  from  the 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  and  prepare  a  fresh,  clean 
hot  suds.  Table  linen  and  all  fine  or  starched  clothes  shoiUd 
be  washed  and  hung  out  first,  that  they  may  be  dried  before 
night.  If  any  are  left  out  overnight,  it  should  be  the  stock- 
ings and  underclothes,  bath-sheets,  and  dish-towels  ;  the  lat- 
ter must  be  soaked  by  themselves,  and  washed  in  water  that 
has  been  used  for  nothing  else. 

When  a  boilerful  has  been  washed,  rub  soap  on  aU  bind- 
ings, collars,  etc.,  replace  the  clothes  in  the  boiler,  fill  it  with 
cold  or  lukewarm  water,  and  set  over  the  range  to  boil  not 
over  twenty  minutes ;  then  pour  all  into  a  tub,  adding  cold 
water  enough  to  make  it  comfortable  to  the  hand,  when  ready 
to  put  them  through  the  second  suds.  While  the  first  set  of 
clothes  are  boiling,  of  course  those  for  a  second  boilerful  are 


24      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

being  washed  and  ready  to  be  put  in  as  soon  as  the  first  is  re- 
moved, that  no  time  may  be  lost.  When  the  second  is  over  the 
fire,  get  the  first  through  the  next  suds  and  the  two  rinsing- 
waters,  which  should  be  blued  and  ready  as  quick  as  possible. 
Do  not  be  sparing  of  rinsing- water.  Have  your  largest  tubs 
two  thirds  full,  and  put  in  but  a  few  pieces  at  a  time,  so  that 
each  article  may  have  unobstructed  benefit  of  a  large  body  of 
water,  and  all  the  soap  may  be  removed.  Wring  and  shake 
out  and  put  into  the  second  rinsing.  Shake  out  each  thing 
from  the  last  rinsing,  snapping  them  smooth  ;  lay  them  loose 
into  the  clean  clothes-basket,  and  hang  out  to  dry  before  you 
begin  on  the  second  boiler.  Careless  rinsing  and  wringing 
will  soon  turn  clothes  yellow.  When  two  girls  assist  about 
washing,  one  should  rinse  and  hang  out  while  the  other  is 
washing.  It  greatly  expedites  the  work,  of  course,  if  they 
do  not  spend  half  the  time  talking ;  but  it  must  be  a  very 
large  wash  that,  even  with  but  one  at  the  tubs,  is  not  all  on 
the  line  before  two  o'clock. 

Eefined  borax,  in  the  proportion  of  one  large  handful  of 
the  powder  to  ten  gallons  of  boiling  water,  is  said  to  save 
nearly  one  half  the  soap,  and  make  the  clothes  beautifully 
white  and  clear.  It  is  a  neutral  salt  and  will  not  injure  the 
fabric.  For  laces,  cambrics,  etc.,  an  extra  quantity  is  neces- 
sary. The  wash-women  of  Belgium  and  Holland,  so  famous 
for  the  beauty  of  their  work,  use  borax  instead  of  soda.^ 

Much  more  might  be  said  on  this  topic  if  space  would  per- 
mit, perhaps  of  little  interest  to  old  experienced  housekeep- 
ers, but  our  talks  are  more  especially  intended  for  those  just 
entering  upon  the  unknown  sphere  of  domestic  care. 


PUTTING   CLOTHES  TO   SOAK.  25 

VII. 

PUTTING  CLOTHES  TO  SOAK. 

"  A  YOUNG  housekeeper  "  is  troubled  at  the  idea  of 
-ZTj^  "  putting  clotlies  to  soak  "  overnight.  She  is  sure 
it  must  take  two  or  three  hours  to  do  it,  and  asks,  "  How  is 
one  to  do  this,  who  lives  in  the  country,  where  the  '  modern 
improvements '  of  hot  water  and  cold  and  stationary  tubs 
are  not  found,  except  in  the  houses  of  wealthy  families  ;  but 
where  all  the  water  must  be  pumped  or  drawn  by  hand,  and 
carried  to  the  tubs  by  one  who  has  all  the  work  to  do  for 
husband  and  fomily,  and  perhaps  keeps  a  few  boarders  beside  1 
To  bring  the  water,  soap  the  clothes,  as  they  are  put  in  the 
tub,  would  occupy  two  or  three  hours  of  the  Sabbuih ;  for, 
as  you  speak  of  washing  Monday,  we  infer  that  you  mean  to 
soak  the  clothes  Sunday." 

Yes,  Sunday  morning  or  evening,  as  is  most  convenient. 
We  think  it  ŌĆö  like  getting  breakfast,  washing  dishes,  making 
beds,  etc.,  on  Sunday  ŌĆö  one  of  the  necessary  items  of  house- 
hold labor.  True,  some  prefer  to  do  this  Saturday  evening, 
but  too  long  soaking  yellows  the  clothes,  and  beside  only 
part  of  them  can  be  collected  Saturday.  Some  also  soak  their 
clothes  a  half-hour  Monday  morning,  but,  in  our  judgment, 
very  little  is  gained  by  that.  We  "should,  however,  by  no 
means  advocate  the  mode  we  have  advised,  if  ttoo  or  three- 
hours  of  the  Sabbath  or  of  any  other  day  in  the  week  must 
be  given  to  it.  Twenty  minutes  or,  if  a  large  wash,  half 
an  hour,  is  abundant  time. 

This  young  housekeeper  evidently  imagines  that  we  must 
be  giving  theoretical  advice,  and  not  such  as  can  be  success- 
fully carried   into   practice.     But  in  this,  as  in  all  that  we 

2 


26      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

have  offered,  we  speak  only  of  "  what  we  know,  and  testify 
of  that  which  we  have  seen  "  and  done.  Ten  years  at  the 
West,  at  a  time  when  all  "  modern  improvements  "  were  un- 
known, and  when  we  were  so  situated  that  the  work  for  hus- 
band and  little  ones,  and  often  several  boarders,  was,  of  neces- 
sity, ^one  with  one  pair  of  hands,  where  the  water  Avas  all  to 
be  draion,  not  pumj^ed,  with  now  and  then  a  "  shake "  or 
"  chill,"  to  fill  up  the  measure  of  the  week's  work  (and  fever 
and  ague,  "  out  West,"  in  those  days,  was  a  genuine  article), 
compelled  us  to  economize  time,  if  not  labor.  We  never  found 
two  or  three  hours  to  spend  in  putting  clothes  to  soak.  When 
supper  was  over,  Saturday  evening,  dishes  washed,  and  ba- 
bies to  sleep,  the  water  was  drawn,  tubs  filled  and  covered, 
to  keep  the  water  free  from  dust,  and,  except  the  bedding  and 
garments,  to  be  changed  Sabbath  morning,  all  the  dirty 
clothes  accumulated  through  the  week  were  "  sorted "  and 
laid  in  piles  on  the  table,  in  the  "  wash-shed,"  covered  over 
with  the  clothes-baskets,  ready  to  be  soaped  and  put  into 
water.  This  last  may  be  done  before, dressing  for  church  or, 
as  we  much  prefer,  before  retiring.  Sabbath  evening. 

Such  lessons,  taught  by  the  best  schoolmaster  in  the  world, 
necessity,  are  often  far  more  valuable  than  any  we  can  learn 
in  later  life,  and  under  more  easy  circumstances.  Of  course 
no  man,  whose  labor  ends  with  the  close  of  the  day,  who 
deserves  the  honored  name  of  husband  {house-bond),  would 
need  to  be  asked  to  put  his  strong  arm  to  the  work,  so  far  as 
to  draw  the  water  and  fill  the  tubs,  after  tea,  in  the  twilight  of 
Saturday  evening ;  while  the  wife  and  mother,  whose  work 
never  ends  till  all  are  sleeping,  is  putting  the  little  folks  to 
bed  and  getting  everything  in  readiness  for  breakfast  Sunday 
morning.  But  often  the  nature  of  the  husband's  employment 
deprives  him,  by  necessity,  of  the  pleasure  of  assisting  his 
wife.  Then,  if  without  servants,  there  is  no  other  way  but  for 
her  to  prove  "  woman's  equality  with  man  "  by  doing  it  her- 


PUTTING   CLOTHES   TO  SOAK.  27 

self.  After  all,  there  are  many  harder  things  than  drawing 
the  good  clear  water  from  the  wcdl. 

N^ow,  with  water  in  the  tubs,  clothes  laid  in  separate  par- 
cels, plenty  of  soap  dissolved,  or  a  nice  barrel  of  soft  soap 
close  at  hand,  does  not  our  "young  housekeeper"  think  the 
clothes  could  be  soaped  and  put  into  the  tub  in  less  than 
half  an  hour'?  Would  there  not  be  plenty  of  time  after 
breakfast,  before  dressing  for  church,  to  perform  this  neces- 
sary labor  as  we  think  it  1  Or  if  making  beds  or  uneasy  chil- 
dren consumed  too  much  time  in  the  morning,  how  long 
would  it  take  to  throw  on  a  wrapper  just  before  retiring,  when 
all  is  quiet  at  night,  and  have  the  clothes  all  at  soak  1  The 
answer  to  these  questions  depends  on  two  things,  ŌĆö  are  you  an 
early  riser  ?  have  you  such  established  system  about  all  your 
labors  as  to  secure  a  time  as  well  as  a  place  for  everything  1 

There  is  one  other  point  that  may  as  well  receive  attention 
while  we  are  on  this  subject. 

Many  are  in  the  habit  of  changing  bed-linen  Saturday 
night,  to  avoid  what  may  seem  like  extra  labor  Sunday 
morning,  in  accordance  with  their  ideas  of  a  strict  observance 
of  the  Sabbath.  "We  cannot  think  this  wise.  It  certainly 
does  not  meet  our  ideas  of  that  "  cleanliness  that  is  next  to 
godliness."  We  think  it  should  be  a  matter  of  principle  to 
have  everything  as  pure,  as  sweet,  and  clean  Sabbath  morn- 
ing as  is  possible.  All  one's  clothes  are  put  on  fresh  on  that 
morning ;  table-cloths  and  napkins  come  right  from  the 
drawer.  If  these  are  all  brought  out  spotless  in  their  purity, 
in  honor  of  the  Lord's  day,  then  why  should  not  our  beds 
al-o  rejoice  in  the  whitest  of  linen  1  We  think  it  a  grateful 
and  appropriate  way  of  beginning  our  Sabbatli ;  and  if  the 
bed-linen  is  laid  out  Saturday  night,  as  it  should  always  be, 
we  do  not  see  how  it  can  occupy  more  time  to  put  on  clean 
things  than  those  which  are  tumbled  and  soiled.  We  think 
the  objections  to  it  are  of  that  kind  spoken  of  as  being  "  wise 
above  that  which  is  written." 


28      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

VIII. 

PATIENT   CONTINUANCE   IN  WELL-DOING. 

AFTEE  one  of  those  days  of  perplexity  and  annoyance 
that  will  occasionally  come  to  all  housekeepers,  old  or 
young,  order  having  at  last  been  restored,  and  peace  beginning 
to  dawn  out  of  the  confusion,  we  took  up  the  pen  to  begin 
our  weekly  talk  with  young  friends.  But  pausing  for  a  mo- 
ment's rest  and  deliberation,  our  thoughts  took  form  and  life, 
and  led  us  into  an  imaginary  conversation  with  a  young  house- 
keeper, jDassing  though  the  same  trials  we  had  just  been 
battling  with.  We  think  we  cannot  do  better  than  send  the 
thoughts  and  scenes  that  rose  before  our  mind,  as  they  so 
truly  illustrate  our  idea  of  the  necessity  of  constant  watch- 
fulness combined  with  "patient  continuance  in  well-doing." 
We  think  most  of  oiu*  readers,  who  have  just  begun  life's 
cares,  will  have  already  learned  that  imagination  does  not,  in 
this  case,  equal  the  reality. 

Scene.  ŌĆö  A  lady's  chamber,  and  the  occupant  in  tears. 
Enter  a  Motherly  Talker. 

ŌĆö  Why !  what  can  be  the  matter  %  You,  so  bright  and 
cheerful  usually,  in  despondency  and  tears  !  Some  great 
trouble  must  have  befallen  you  ! 

"  I  am  completely  discouraged !  I  ought  never  to  have 
undertaken  housekeeping.  It  is  evident  I  shall  never  make 
a  good  housekeeper,  and  I  %vill  not  be  a  poor  one.  After  all 
my  boasting  when  I  first  began,  I  am  ashamed  to  tell  you 
now  how  miserably  I  have  failed.  But  '  open  confession  is 
good  for  the  soul,'  and  when  you  have  had  the  whole  story, 
say  if  you  think  I  am  worth  the  teaching." 

Why,  how  humble  our  little  woman  has  become  !     Some 


PATIENT  CONTINUANCE   IN   WELL-DOING.  29 

"  lion  in  tlic  way,"  and,  doubtless,  of  your  own  creating, 
has  disheartened  you  for  the  present,  we  think.  Tell  us, 
without  hesitation,  what  troubles  you,  and  we  will  see  if  we 
cannot  find  a  "  silver  lining  "  to  this  cloud,  as  it  is  easy  to 
do  in  most  cases. 

"  Well,  listen,  and  tell  me,  when  you  learn  how  I  have 
been  blinded,  if  I  have  not  cause  to  hide  in  the  valley  of 
humiliation. 

"  I  have  labored  hard  to  train  my  Bridget,  to  the  best  of 
my  ability,  and,  with  all  her  inefficiencies,  have  felt  and 
boasted  tliat  she  was  really  neat.  That  being  the  case,  I  felt 
myself  capable  of  keeping  so  strict  a  watch  of  her  weak  points, 
that  she  could  not  hide  her  mistakes  so  deftly  but  that  I 
would  find  and  try  to  teach  her  to  rectify  them.  I  had,  at 
the  commencement  of  my  new  life,  arranged  everything  in 
the  nicest  order ;  and  having  started  the  machinery,  Bridget 
seeming  so  ready  to  carry  out  my  rules,  I  was  confident  that, 
by  keeping  up  a  careful  supervision,  I  could  not  fail,  and  was 
in  a  fair  way  to  become  a  bright  and  shining  light  among  my 
sister  hoiisekeepers. 

"  Well,  Bridget  left  me  yesterday.  I  did  n't  much  care. 
There  would  be  no  trouble  in  replacing  her,  and  doubtless 
securing  a  more  capable  girl.  Beside,  a  few  days'  work  all  to 
myself  would  be  no  hardship  ;  for  had  I  not  been  so  faithful 
in  my  oversight  of  all  domestic  affairs,  that  everything  about 
my  house  must  be  in  perfect  order  % 

"  I  was  in  the  habit  of  visiting  kitchen  and  store-closet 
daily.  The  sink  seemed  clean,  the  range  well  polished,  the 
boiler  bright,  and  dishes  all  in  order,  and  making  quite  a 
pretty  display  on  the  shelves.  Ah !  if  I  had  handled  each 
article,  looked  into  each  pot  or  kettle,  instead  of  being  con- 
tent to  see  only  the  outside,  I  should  have  soon  learned  that 
all  was  falsely  fair  !  Why  !  everything  was  slippery,  greasy, 
dirty,  or  leaking,  except  those  which  were  placed  in  the  front 


30      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

rank,  for  show.  I  am  sick  and  lame  from  just  this  morn- 
ing's cleaning  and  scrubbing,  and  am  not  half  through  even 
the  kitchen.  Half  the  dishes  that  looked  so  nicely  on  the 
shelves  are  '  nicked  '  or  cracked  ;  holes  burnt  in  the  sauce- 
pans, and  bits  of  old  cloth  drawn  through  to  stgp  the  leak, 
ŌĆö  who  can  tell  how  long  they  have  remained  there,  gathering 
filth,  or  from  what  dirty  rag  they  were  torn  ! 

"  How  often  I  have  praised  Bridget  for  keeping  the  kitchen 
coffee  and  tea  pot  so  bright.  But  when  I  took  them  down 
this  morning,  lo  !  the  coffee-pot  was  minus  a  handle,  and  the 
teapot  bottomless  !  They  were  placed  with  the  perfect  side 
in  sight  on  the  shelves,  and  the  broken  parts  wholly  con- 
cealed ;  while  my  best  things  were  doubtless  used  in  the 
kitchen.  If  I  mnst  take  up  each  article,  day  by  day,  to  be 
sure*  of  their  condition,  I  could  do  nothing  else  through  the 
day. 

"  In  the  cellar  a  barrel  stood,  in  its  proper  place,  filled 
with  kindling.  I  reached  my  hand  in  hastily  to  get  paper  to 
start  the  fire,  and  quickly  snatched  it  out,  cut  and  bleeding. 
There  were  only  a  few  papers  on  the  top  of  the  barrel,  and 
all  the  rest  of  its  contents  was  broken  glass  and  china  ! 

"  Then  my  store-closet  is  kept  locked,  and  the  key  in  my 
own  pocket.  I  have  always  handed  out  everything  ŌĆö  sugar, 
spices,  sweetmeats,  etc.  ŌĆö  myself,  yet  I  find  much  sugar, 
sweetmeats,  spices,  and  jellies  missing  !  Now  that  my  sus- 
picions are  aroused,  I  see  what  has  gone.  If  /  keej}  the  l-eys 
myself,  and  yet  am  not  safe  from  pilfering,  what  can  I  do  1 
But  other  housekeepers  have  not  this  trouble  :  where  lies  the 
secret  of  their  success,  and  my  most  humiliating  failure  % " 

Is^ow,  although  this  is  simply  an  imaginary  scene,  there  is 
f;ir  more  truth  than  fiction  in  it.  Many  housekeepers  of  late 
years  have  often  had  the  same  experience,  and  worse.  This 
evil  is  growing  upon  us  rapidly.  If  deliverance  comes  not  to 
us,  ŌĆö  perhaps  through   China,  ŌĆö  our  housekeepers   have   a 


PATIENT  CONTINUANCE   IN   WELL-DOING.  31 

gloomy  prospect.  The  secret  of  apparent  success  with  some 
often  arises  from  the  fact,  that  keeping  two  or  three  girls  em- 
ployed, when  one  leaves  without  warning,  those  who  remain 
are  expected  to  manage  as  best  they  can,  till  the  vacant  place 
is  hlled.  In  these  cases  the  mistress  does  not  see  with  her 
own  eyes  all  that  takes  place  behind  the  scenes.  Such  "  igno- 
rance is  bliss,"  perhaps,  but  certainly  not  the  best  economy, 
AAHiereas,  if  housekeepers  are  left  alone  without  any  help  for 
a  few  days,  and  are  obliged  to  take  the  work  into  their  own 
hands,  they  learn  several  unexpected  lessons  which  are  not 
easy  to  forget.  They  see  the  evils  which  have  been  quietly 
accumulating  under  the  carelessness  or  deceit  of  servants, 
and  will  not  be  so  readily  blinded  the  second  time. 

When  you  have  servants  about  you,  it  is  not  possible  to 
handle  every  article,  to  look  into  every  corner,  daily.  One 
might  as  well  make  no  pretence  of  keeping  "  help."  And 
while  only  a  slavery  of  the  most  exact  and  unfailing 
watchfulness  can  save  you  from  many  leaks  and  much 
extravagant  waste,  yet,  by  this  course,  you  may  lose,  by  the 
constant  irritation  of  disposition,  more  than  you  can  save 
pecuniarily.  The  only  safe  way  is  to  make  things  as  secure 
as  possible  ;  first,  as  to  the  character  of  servants  when  you 
engage  them  ;  secondly,  by  way  of  guarding  them  from  the 
temptation  of  open  closets  and  immunity  from  oversight. 

So  long  as  servants  can  and  do  forge  "  characters "  or 
"  recommendations,"  or  use  skeleton  keys,  ŌĆö  and  many  do 
this,  ŌĆö  we  are  greatly  at  their  mercy,  unless  we  look  the  evil 
squarely  in  the  face,  and  attempt  to  find  a  remedy.  We  are 
told  that  to  speak  plainly  of  these  things  ŌĆö  which  are  truly  of 
frequent  occurrence  ŌĆö  we  open  the  eyes  of  the  servants  as  well 
as  their  mistresses,  and  tempt  them  to  do  the  wrong  wlaich, 
but  for  the  speaking  of  it,  they  never  would  have  thought 
of.  Let  no  one  believe  this.  It  is  entirely  a  mistaken  no- 
tion.    Our  ladies  have  no  idea  how  thoroughly  posted  their 


32      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPEES. 

servants  are  ŌĆö  even  some  of  the  most  trusted  ŌĆö  in  every 
evil  of  tliis  kind.  A  better  way  is  to  meet  any  such  dan- 
gers openly ;  not  willingly  stumble  along  blindfold,  lest  we 
should  see  what  we  cannot  help  fearing  is  going  on  in  our 
midst.  See  it,  and  try  to  overcome  it  by  greater  caution. 
Never,  under  any  consideration,  take  a  written  "  recommen- 
dation "  of  a  girl.  Go  to  the  lady  who  is  said  to  have  writ- 
ten the  "  character,"  and  learn  the  truth.  That  destroys  all 
danger  from  forged  certificates.  If  it  is  thought  too  much 
trouble,  then  you  must  not  complain  of  imposition. 

Again,  if  you  judge  best  to  keep  locked  closets  and  store- 
rooms, there  are  many  patent  locks,  not  expensive,  which  no 
"  pass  "  or  "  skeleton  key  "  can  open.  Put  such  on  your  store- 
closet  and  places  which,  you  most  desire  to  guard,  and  you  at 
once  secure  yourself  against  another  evil. 

And  "  patient  continuance  in  well-doing,"  frequent,  care- 
ful, but  kindly  oversight,  thorough  but  not  suspicious  inspec- 
tion of  kitchen,  store-rooms,  closets,  etc.,  will  lessen  many 
others ;  the  remainder  we  must  endure  until,  among  all 
the  reformatory  movements  of  this  progressive  age,  some 
good  spirit  shall  effect  a  deliverance  from  the  heaviest  bur- 
den that  oppresses  the  housekeeper,  ŌĆö  unfaithful,  inefficient 
servants. 


IX. 

PREPARING  FOR   THE   COUNTRY. 

JUNE,  the  month  of  roses,  is  near,  and  all  who  are  com- 
pelled to  live  a  large  part  of  the  year  in  the  city  are 
looking  forward  to  some  weeks  of  rest  from  ever- ringing  bells, 
interminable  flights  of  stairs,  and  all  the  wear  and  tear  that 
belong  peculiarly  to  a  city  life.     But  there  is  much  to  be 


PREPARING   FOR  THE  COUNTRY.  33 

done  before  you  can  safely  close  the  doors  and  leave  the  house 
and  its  content  under  lock  and  key,  for  the  summer.  Every 
part  of  the  house  should  be  thoroughly  examined,  and  none 
but  the  eye  of  the  mistress  can  be  depended  upon.  Each 
article  that  is  to  be  left  behind  must  be  carefidly  looked 
after.  Winter  garments,  furs,  and  such  heavy  shawls  as  may 
not  be  thought  advisable  to  take  to  the  country,  have  of 
course  been  aired,  beaten,  sprinkled  with  Poole's  or  Lyon's 
insect-powder,  wrapped  up  in  linen  or  paper,  and  sealed  so 
that  no  moth  can  find  an  entrance.  Even  if  done  up  in  linen, 
it  is  Ijettcr  to  put  over  that  a  strong  wrapping-paper,  and  seal 
up  with  mucilage.  If  this  is  faithfully  done,  moths  cannot, 
or  rather  will  not,  wish  to  get  in.  We  are  inclined  to  think 
that  Poole's  powder  is  the  best ;  it  is  certainly  the  most  dis- 
agreeable, and  that  speaks  well  for  its  efficacy.  Camphor  or 
cedar  trunks,  made  expressly  for  packing  furs,  woolens,  etc., 
are  a  great  convenience  and  very  safe ;  but  for  those  who 
have  none,  sprinkling  Avith  the  powder  and  sealing  in  thick 
paper  is,  though  more  troublesome,  equally  reliable. 

If  the  house  is  to  be  closed  for  some  time,  a  very  thorough 
cleaning  of  paint,  windows,  plated  knobs,  and  bell-pulls  is  a 
useless  waste  of  time  and  strength,  as  they  will  all  be  bronzed 
in  a  few  weeks  ;  but  every  part  should  be  well  swept,  and 
aU  accumidation  of  dust  removed.  In  the  attic  or  any  un- 
carpeted  room,  where  the  boards  of  the  floor  have  shrunk, 
leaving  open  spaces  between  the  boards,  much  dust  and  lint 
will  gather  in  the  crevices  thus  formed,  and  become  favorite 
nests  for  moths.  All  such  places  should  be  swept  with  great 
care.  A  stiff"  brush  should  be  used  to  clear  every  particle  of 
dirt  out,  and  then  scrub  the  floor  with  hot  soapsuds.  When 
it  is  dry,  sprinkle  insect-powder  in  the  seams.  This  done, 
and  well  done,  we  think  there  need  be  no  hesitation  in  leav- 
ing a  house  unoccupied  for  a  few  weeks  ;  certainly  we  should 
feel  far  less  solicitude  than  to  leave  a  servant  in  it. 


34      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEKPERS. 

Insect-powder  should  be  put  round  the  corners  and  edges 
of  such  carpets  as  are  to  remain  on  the  floor  for  the  summer. 
There  is  a  little  bellows  that  generally  comes  with  Poole's 
powder,  or  can  be  had  at  house-furnishing  stores,  by  which 
you  can  blow  the  powder  under  the  edges  much  more  thor- 
oughly than  in  any  other  way. 

I^ext,  see  that  all  food  is  removed  from  the  house  ;  meat,  salt 
or  fresh  butter,  flour,  meal,  bread,  or  cake  should  be  disposed 
of.  Such  articles  soon  spoil  and  make  the  air  impure  and  offen- 
sive ;  or,  if  not  offensive,  it  entices  rats  and  mice  into  the  house 
to  prepare  work  and  trouble  for  you  all  through  the  winter. 

The  furnace  and  ranges  must  be  cleared  out,  and  if  any 
repairs  are  necessary  they  should  be  done  now.  It  will  an- 
noy you  far  more  to  have  these  to  attend  to  when  you  return 
and  are  in  the  confusion  and  haste  of  getting  "  settled  "  for 
the  winter,  with  the  thousand  interruptions  to  which  you 
win  then  be  liable.  The  top  of  the  range  should  be  rubbed 
in  sweet-oil,  or  lard  that  has  no  salt  in  it,  to  prevent  rust. 
Flat-irons,  bake-pans,  soup-boilers,  all  iron-ware,  must  also  be 
oiled,  wrapped  up  in  paper,  and  hung  up,  that  you  may  find 
your  utensils  in  perfect  order  when  you  return,  needing  only 
a  good  washing  in  hot  soapsuds  to  be  ready,  for  immediate 
use.  Have  locks,  keys,  bolts,  and  bars  in  a  good  usable  con- 
dition, that  you  may  feel  sure  that  nothing  is  left  without 
strong  fastenings. 

All  this  preparation  is  hard  work,  and  you  are  very  thank- 
ful when  the  last  trunk  is  locked,  the  last  bundle  or  basket 
fastened,  and  this  labor  ended.  But  the  comfort  and  satis- 
faction of  knowing  by  your  own  actual  observation  and  care 
that  all  has  been  done,  and  waits  your  return  in  the  fall, 
with  no  mark  of  carelessness  to  rise  up  in  reproach  against 
you,  will  be  ample  compensation.  Yet,  at  the  last  minute, 
take  one  more  journey  from  cellar  to  attic,  to  "  make  assur- 
ance doubly  sure,"  and  then,  leaving  all  that  care  behind 
you,  go  on  your  way  rejoicing. 


HEEDLESSNESS.  35 

X. 

HEEDLESSNESS. 

THEEE  are  many  annoyances  that  fall  to  a  housekeeper's 
lot  which  seem  very  insignificant  when  spoken  of,  and 
too  trivial  to  put  on  paper  ;  but  they  are  grievances  never- 
theless, and  like  a  wasp's  or  bee's  sting,  though  small,  not 
easily  borne ;  and  when  they  follow  each  other  in  quick  suc- 
cession, and  are  constantly  repeated,  the  accumulation,  like  a 
Avhole  swarm  of  bees,  wiU  tax  the  grace  and  patience  of  the 
strongest.  It  is  the  little  frets  of  daily  life  that,  when 
summed  up,  become  almost  unendurable ;  and  to  them  is 
added  the  mortification  of  knowing  that  friends  who  are  only 
"  lookers  on,"  having  never  themselves  touched  the  burden 
with  so  much  as  theu-  little  finger,  feel  no  sympathy,  but  on 
the  contrary  almost  a  good-natured  contempt,  that  any  one 
should  be  so  weak  as  to  be  shaken  by  such  trifling  troubles 
and  vexations.  But  they  are  not  trifling ;  if  they  Avere  only 
occasional  they  would  be  ;  but  they  are  of  daily,  hourly 
occurrence,  and,  because  they  are  never  ending,  make  a  house- 
keeper's responsible  position  one  that  demands  self-control 
and  patience  of  a  higher  order  than  any  other  position  to 
which  woman  aspires.  There  is  a  dignity  in  being  burnt 
at  the  stake  that  enables  one  to  rise  above  the  pain  ;  but  to 
be  harried  to  death  with  briers  and  brambles  is  very  hunuli- 
ating,  yet  a  torture  none  the  less. 

Many  things  that  are  really  untidy  are  not  noticed  until, 
through  neglect,  they  increase,  and  at  last  cause  great  confu- 
sion in  the  home  affairs,  simply  because  the  young  house- 
keeper's attention  has  not  been  called  to  them,  or  she  does 
not  yet  understand  how  to  regulate  and  control  them.    Igno- 


36      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

ranee  may  be  bliss,  but  it  is  of  a  nature  that  leads  to  mis- 
cluof  in  the  end. 

Let  us  point  out  some  of  these  petty  troubles,  and  see  what 
they  amount  to  and  how  they  may  be  removed. 

What  more  disagreeable  and  annoying  than  to  have  the 
vapors  or  odors  that  arise  from  washing  or  cooking  pervade 
the  Avhole  house,  giving  to  it  the  sickening  smell  of  the  low- 
est class  boarding-houses  1  When  seated  quietly  in  the  parlor, 
it  comes  so  gradually  upon  one  that  it  is  hardly  noticed ;  but 
step  for  a  moment  into  the  fresh  air,  and  on  your  return  you 
will  be  greatly  disgusted  at  the  fumes  that  half  suffocate  you 
as  you  open  the  door.  This  infliction  can  be  escaped  only 
by  keeping  the  doors  of  the  kitchen  or  hall  leading  from  it 
tightly  closed.  Yet  it  seems  almost  impossible  to  teach  a 
servant  that  just  "  pushing  the  door  to  "  is  not  shutting  it, 
and  the  smells  of  the  kitchen  will  escape  as  readily  through 
a  half-closed  as  through  an  open  door.  There  is  no  help 
for  this  evil  but  watchfulness  and  constant  reminder.  You 
can  put  springs  or  rubber  straps  on  the  door,  and  while  they 
are  new  and  stiff  they  Avill  swing  to  with  force  enough  to 
close  it ;  but  the  spring  will  soon  grow  careless,  like  other 
servants,  and  by  and  by  not  shut  the  door  entirely.  As 
well  leave  it  wide  open  as  ajar.  Besides,  springs  are  very 
troublesome  and  inconvenient,  and,  in  the  passing  of  servants 
with  their  hands  full,  endanger  the  dishes.  And,  worse  than 
all,  we  have  noticed  that  a  spring  on  the  door  has  a  singu- 
larly inflammatory  effect  on  the  disposition  of  the  servants  ; 
and  after  they  have  been  hit  or  a  few  dishes  broken  once  or 
twice  by  it,  the  spring  suddenly  breaks  or  is  cut.  Of  course 
it  broke  itself,  or  nobody/  ŌĆö  that  most  mysterious  mischief- 
maker ŌĆö  did  it.  The  watch  and  care  of  the  mistress  is  the 
only  remedy. 

Another  careless  habit  which  often  proves  a  great  grief  of 
heart  to  the  thorough  housekeeper,  and  to  which  the  atten- 


HEEDLESSNESS.  37 

tion  of  the  beginner  should  be  directed  from  the  first,  is  the 
use  of  dish-towels  and  dish-cloths,  instead  of  "holders,"  to 
remove  pots,  stew-pans,  and  kettles  from  the  fire,  or  meats 
and  jDies  from  the  oven.  It  is  a  habit  that  is  harder  to 
conquer  than  almost  any  other.  The  most  ample  supply  of 
holders  may  be  provided,  yet  the  mistress  seldom  enters  the 
kitchen  but  she  sees  the  nice  crash  towel  caught  up  to  re- 
move a  boiling  pot  from  the  stove,  or  a  gridiron  from  the  fire, 
and  if  it  is  not  tossed  into  the  sink,  scorched  and  smeared,  it 
is  a  marvel.  And  the  "  holder  "  you  had  so  neatly  made 
but  a  few  days  before,  now  a  mass  of  grease,  stove-crock,  and 
filth,  is  perhaps  lying  in  the  coal-hod  ready  to  be  thrown 
into  the  fire,  where  you  will  be  the  least  likely  to  find  it  out ; 
for  to  wash  a  holder  never  enters  into  the  heads  of  those  who 
use,  or  rather  abuse,  them  so  badly. 

A  cooKs  holder  should  be  made  of  some  strong,  dark  ma- 
terial, a  piece  of  tape  about  a  half-yard  long  sewed  on  one 
corner,  and  a  large  hook  on  the  tape  to  hook  into  cook's  belt 
or  apron-string.     It  is  then  always  ready  for  use. 

"  And  will  she  remember  to  use  it  1 " 

Doubtful ;  certainly  not  without  your  watchful  care.  But 
be  sure  and  have  them  ready,  and  then  strictly  endeavor  to 
secure  their  proper  use. 

The  ironing-holder  should  be  of  soft,  light-colored  material, 
that  dirt  and  stains  may  bear  testimony  against  its  use  about 
clean  clothes,  till  it  is  washed.  Harsh  material  is  severe  on 
the  hands  when  used  for  hours  on  a  hot  iron.  When  out  of 
use,  the  ironing-holder  must  be  put  away  with  the  ironing- 
slieet,  bosom-board,  etc.,  that  they  may  not  be  used  in  the 
kitchen. 

Again  :  Avatch  the  dish-towels  ;  see  that  they  are  not 
thrown  on  the  floor  or  into  a  chair  to  be  sat  on  by  the  first 
one  who  happens  in,  and  perhaps  the  next  minute  used  to  wipe 
the  fine  china  or  cover  over  the  bread  fresh  from  the  oven. 


38      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Such  tilings  are  constantly  being  clone.  Do  our  housekeepers 
know  it  ]  Of  course  they  never  do  such  things  themselves  ; 
but  if  they  once  gave  it  a  moment's  sober  thought,  would 
they  not,  for  their  own  comfort,  endeavor  to  prevent  its  being 
done  again  %  Who  would  Avish  to  eat  or  drink  from  china 
wiped  with  towels  so  misused  %  "Who  would  like  to  eat  bread 
that  had  been  wrapped  up  in  a  dish-towel,  however  clean  ] 
They  should  be  washed  and  boiled  every  day  after  the  din- 
ner-dishes are  out  of  the  way,  hung  out  to  dry,  and  fresh, 
clean  ones  used  at  tea  and  till  after  dinner  the  next  day, 
when  the  first  set  are  brought  in  for  the  dishes,  and  the  sec- 
ond washed,  boiled,  and  hung  out,  ŌĆö  thus  securing  clean 
towels  for  each  day.  But  no  matter  how  faithfully  this  rule 
may  be  carried  out,  no  dish-towel  should  ever  be  used  for 
bread,  no  bread-cloth  should  be  used  to  wipe  meat,  no  meat- 
cloth  used  for  fish.  Each  contracts  a  taste  or  smell  belong- 
ing to  its  own  peculiar  work,  and  each  should  be  marked  and 
employed  for  its  own  apppropriate  use,  and  no  other. 


XL 

WASHING  FLANNELS. 

"  /^  AIST  you  tell  me  what  has  been  done  to  my  blankets  1 
\_J    Not  a  year  in  use,  and  look  at  them  !     Fortunately 

I  put  but  two  into  the  wash  this  week,  and  now  I  think  I 

shall  never  dare  to  have  another  washed.     My  pretty,  soft, 

white  blankets  absolutely  ruined  !  " 

Not  ruined,  as  far  as  use  is  concerned,  but  the  beauty  has 

departed,  never  to  return.     Did  you  overlook  the  washing 

of  them  yourself] 

"  Most  certainly  not  !     I  never  did  such  a  thing  in  my 


WASHING  FLANNELS.  39 

life.  I  told  the  laundress  that  I  wanted  her  to  be  very  par- 
ticular, and  she  assured  me  that  she  was  fully  competent  to 
the  work.  I  have  just  been  speaking  to  her  about  them, 
and  she  can't  tell  what  should  make  them  look  so  badly,  un- 
le.:s  there  was  something  wrong  about  the  wool." 

That  is  simply  absurd.  Did  you  question  her  as  to  her 
mode  of  washing  them  1 

"  0,  no.  I  should  not  have  known  if  she  had  managed 
incorrectly,  and  to  question  her  would  only  have  exposed 
my  own  ignorance  to  a  servant,  and  that  I  am  very  loth  to 
do  ;  but  she  said  she  rubbed  them  very  faithfully,  soaped 
them  thoroughly,  and  boiled  them  in  good,  clean  suds." 

Soaped  and  boiled  blankets,  or  woolen  goods  of  any  kind  ! 
No  wonder  they  are  brown  and  muddy,  and  as  thick  as  a 
board  ! 

Blankets  that  are  carefully  managed  will  not  require  wash- 
ing often  ;  yovirs  have  been  in  use  so  short  a  time  they  cer- 
tainly could  not  have  needed  it,  unless  they  were  accident- 
ally soiled. 

"  No,  they  looked  very  fresh  and  fair  ;  but  I  had  supposed 
blankets  should  be  washed  every  fall  and  spring.  I  never 
asked  why." 

0,  no  !  They  are  always  put  between  the  sheets  and 
bedspreads,  not  in  contact  with  the  body  at  all,  and  it  would 
be  long  before  anything  but  an  accident  or  the  greatest  care- 
lessness could  soil  them. 

There  are  people  who  will  lie  down  for  a  nap  in  the  after- 
noon between  the  blanhets  I  The  housekeeper  Avho  can  pa- 
tiently or  silently  endure  that  must  be  nearer  akin  to  the 
angels  than  we  generally  find  them.  True,  no  woman  would 
be  guilty  of  such  carelessness  ;  but  ignorance  is  an  excuse 
for  many  short-comings.  But  it  is  not  this  class  of  men 
that  we  intend  to  have  at  home  in  charge  of  household 
affairs  when  women  go  to  Congress. 


40      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Occasionally,  in  a  fair,  clear  day,  and  when  there  is  a 
moderate  wind,  it  is  well  to  i^in  blankets  on  the  clothes-line 
in  the  yard,  that  they  may  be  well  aired  and  freshened,  and 
whatever  dust  may  have  settled  in  them  be  whipped  out  by 
the  wind.  When  they  really  need  washing,  the  first  step  is 
to  see  that  there  is  a  good  quantity  of  boiling  water  ready. 
Next,  select  the  largest  tub  and  fill  half  full  of  boiling 
water  ;  dissolve  and  stir  thoroughly  into  it  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  powdered  borax  and  sufficient  soap  to  make  a  good 
lather,  but  on  no  account  rub  soap  on  the  blanhets.  Put  into 
the  tub  but  one  blanket  at  a  time.  Shake  it  to  and  fro  with 
the  clothes-stick  till  perfectly  wet  through,  then  press  it 
under  the  water  to  remain  till  cool  enough,  to  use  your 
hands  in  it,  when  each  part  should  be  examined  very  care- 
fully, gently  rubbing  or  squeezing  the  suds  through  it.  Hard 
rubbing  fulls  woolens.  When  sure  that  all  spots  or  dirt  are 
removed,  wring  them  into  a  second  tub  of  boiling  water 
into  which  you  have  thoroughly  stirred  some  blueing.  If 
your  first  suds  are  strong  enough,  the  blankets  will  retain 
suffici^.nt  soap  for  the  rinsing  water,  which  in  woolens 
requires  a  little  soap.  Shake  the  blanket  up  and  down  in 
this  water,  with,  the  clothes-stick,  till  it  has  flowed  through, 
every  part.  Then,  while  the  water  is  still  hot,  wring  it.  It 
requires  two  persons  to  wring  and  shake  out  a  bed-blanket. 
They  shonld  take  it  by  the  ends  and  snap  vigorously,  to 
remove  all  the  water  as  far  as  possible.  Then  carry  it  to  the 
line,  throw  it  over,  and  pull  it  smooth,  bringing  the  hems 
straight  and  true,  and  pin  on  to  the  line  strongly.  When 
half  dry,  turn  it  lengtliAvise  on  the  line,  and  pull  the  sel- 
vedges together  in  a  straight  line,  so  that  no  part  may  draw 
up  in  cockles  or  full  unevenly. 

It  is  not  well  to  wash  woolens  of  any  kind  on  a  rainy  or 
cloudy  day  ;  but  for  blankets  it  is  ruinous.  A  bright  sunny 
day  with  a  brisk  Avind  is  very  desirable,  as  it  snaps  out  the 


WASHING   FLANNELS.  41 

water,  giving  it  no  chance  to  settle.  When  the  blanket  is 
perfectly  dry,  fold  very  evenly,  but  never  press  or  iron  it. 

Washed  in  this  way,  although  your  blankets  may  not  be 
quite  as  white  as  when  new,  the  change  will  be  hardly 
noticeable,  and  they  will  be  soft  and  fleecy  until  worn  out. 
A  tall,  large  tub  with  a  pounder  or  dasher  on  springs,  fast- 
ened across  the  tub,  like  the  old-fashioned  pounding-barrel,  or 
the  tub  and  dasher  of  the  Metropolitan  Washing- Machine, 
is  one  of  the  most  convenient  and  desirable  tubs  to  wash 
blankets  in,  as  the  washing  can  be  done  at  once  without 
waiting  for  the  water  to  cool.  The  pounder  should  be  used 
gently,  as  harsh  rubbing  or  pounding  knots  the  fibers  of 
woolens,  but  the  spring  dasher  keeps  the  water  filtering 
through  every  part  without  any  hard  usage. 

Wash  flannels  in  the  same  way,  only  bring  them  from  the 
line  while  quite  damp  ;  pull  out  and  fold  evenly.  If  any 
spot  has  "  fulled  "  or  "  cockled,"  when  it  is  a  little  damp  you 
can  pull  it  smooth.  EoU  up  the  articles  tight,  for  a  little 
while,  uotil  dampened  all  over  alike,  and  then  press  them 
till  dry,  puUing  the  garment  taut  from  the  iron  as  you  press. 

There  are  many  theories  about  washing  woolen  goods. 
Several  of  the  "  Household  Guides,"  of  late,  recommend 
washing  in  cold  water.  Some  even  advise  soaking  them 
all  night,  claiming  that  they  do  not  felt  or  full  any  more 
than  when  washed  in  hot  water,  and  are  not  as  liable  to 
grow  yellow.  But  we  cannot  think  this  idea  correct.  Pro- 
fessor Youmans,  in  his  "  Book  of  Household  Science,"  de- 
scribes the  difference,  in  the  structure  of  fiber,  between  woolen 
and  cotton  and  linen  fabrics,  with  a  drawing  of  the  straight, 
smooth  form  of  linen  or  cotton  filaments,  and  the  toothed 
and  jagged  structures  of  woolen  fabrics,  and  says  :  ŌĆö 

"  It  is  evident  that  the  latter,  Ijy  compression  and  friction, 
will  mat  and  lock  together,  while  cotton  and  linen  fibers, 
having  no  such  asperities  of  surface,  are  incapable  of  any- 


42      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

thing  like  close  mechanical  adherence.  Hence  the  peculiar 
capabilities  of  woolen  fabrics  of  felting,  fulling,  and  shrink- 
ing, caused  by  the  binding  together  of  the  ultimate  fila- 
ments. We  see,  therefore,  the  impolicy  of  excessive  rub- 
bing in  washing  woolen  fabrics,  and  of  changing  them  from 
hot  to  cold  water,  as  the  contraction  that  it  causes  is  essen- 
tially a  fulling  process.  The  best  experience  seems  to  indi- 
cate that  woolen  cloths  should  never  be  put  into  cold  water, 
but  always  into  warm,  and  if  changed  from  water  to  water, 
they  should  go  from  hot  to  hotter.  In  the  most  skillful  modes 
of  cleansing  delaines  for  printing,  the  plan  is,  to  place  them 
first  in  water  at  100┬░  or  120┬░,  and  then  treat  them  eight  or 
ten  times  with  water  10┬░  hotter  in  each  change." 


XII. 
JUNE   CARES. 


THERE  is  much  of  romance  and  beauty  in  the  month  of 
June,  partly  imaginary  and  partly  real.  During  the 
frosts  and  snows  of  winter,  the  sharp  w^nds  and  dreary 
storms  of  spring,  our  thoughts  turn  with  most  affectionate 
longings  towards  June,  ŌĆö  the  month  of  loves  and  roses.  Yet, 
when  she  comes,  hardly  any  other  month  of  the  whole  year 
brings  so  many  little  frets  and  annoyances  as  the  month  of 
June. 

The  first  two  or  three  days,  so  warm  and  balmy,  lull  us 
into  a  dreamy  state  of  delightful  rest  and  security ;  but 
Ave  wake  to  find  damp,  foggy  mornings,  with  mists  so  dark 
and  dense  that  you  long  to  cut  a  window  through  for  the 
sunshine,  which  you  feel  must  be  held  in  durance  vile  behind 
it.     Particularly  is  this  noticeable  if  living  near  a  river.     All 


JUNE  CARES.  43 

through  the  first  half  of  the  month  we  have  cold,  stormy 
days,  then  suddenly  damp,  sultry,  sticky  ones.  In  the  morn- 
ing we  are  uncertain  how  to  dress.  If  warm,  and  we  put 
on  cool,  thin  garments,  perhaps  in  an  hour  or  two  a  chilly 
wind  sweeps  by,  and,  shivering  and  quite  uncomfortable, 
Ave  resort  to  a  breakfast  shawl  or  sack ;  they  are  a  little  too 
much,  and  we  drop  them,  only  too  glad,  in  a  few  moments, 
to  draw  them  close  about  us  again  ;  or,  in  an  obstinate  fit,  we 
refuse  to  yield  to  the  demands  made  by  these  sudden  changes 
for  warmer  clothing,  and  a  heavy  cold  is  the  result.  The 
wind  has  a  decided  partiality  for  the  east  most  of  the  time  in 
early  June.  If  it  veers  for  a  few  hours  to  the  south,  it  is  in 
an  unsteady,  wavering  manner,  and  soon  turns  back  to  the 
east  again.  The  result  is,  that  the  first  half  of  June  will 
very  likely  keep  you  in  an  uncomfortable,  dissatisfied  state 
of  mind.  Everytliing  molds  ;  clothes  grow  damp  in  drawers 
or  wardrobes,  or  the  washing  is  caught  out  in  a  shower,  just 
as  it  is  half  ready  to  be  taken  in.  It  is  decidedly  "  falling 
weather."  Be  Avatchful  to  guard  against  any  infelicities  that 
may  follow  these  changes,  patiently  accepting  Avhat  they 
bring  that  cannot  be  avoided.  That 's  the  only  true  way. 
This  variable  weather  usually  lasts  till  the  middle  of  June, 
sometimes  later,  when  we  may  look  for  more  settled  but 
very  warm  weather. 

The  flies  have  been  reconnoitring,  - ŌĆö  sending  out  scouts, 
during  those  few  weeks  of  mild  weather ;  but  as  the  warm 
days  become  more  permanent,  they  come  on  with  their  main 
army.  We  have  put  the  moths  to  rest,  but  these  intruders, 
if  not  as  mischievous,  are  quite  as  hard  to  manage,  and 
even  as  persistent.  There  are  various  kinds  of  "  fly-paper," 
around  which,  if  ready  for  them,  certainly  lie  large  numbers 
of  the  slain  to  certify  to  the  virtues  of  the  paper.  It  is 
doubtless  of  some  benefit,  but  does  not  by  any  means  free 
us  from  this  great  vexation.     It  is  at  least  a  dirty,  mussy 


44      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

remedy,  requiring  one  to  be  incessantly  on  the  watch  lest  flies 
who  have  tasted  the  paper  fall  into  food,  or  lie  about  in  an 
unseemly  manner.  If  servants  in  the  kitchen  or  dining-room 
have  any  gifts  toward  neatness,  this  constant  litter  makes 
them  cross  ;  if  they  have  not  that  gift,  the  careless  way  they 
allow  the  dead  Hies  to  lie  about,  and  the  fear  that  they  may 
approach  too  near  the  cooking,  may  make  the  mistress  cross 
also,  ŌĆö  two  evils  to  be  scrupulously  avoided. 

During  the  heat  of  summer  we  are  compelled  to  keep  open 
doors  and  windows,  but  these  lawless  intruders  know,  appar- 
ently, the  moment  when  we  lift  the  latch  or  raise  the  win- 
dow, and  swarm  in  upon  us  in  myriads.  To  secure  the  air 
and  baffle  the  flies,  we  have  found  mosquito  netting  a 
great  help.  A  simple  frame  of  pine,  about  an  inch  and  a 
half  wide,  fitted  closely  inside  the  lower  sash,  with  mosquito 
lace  or  net  nailed  across  it  (galvanized  nails  or  tacks  should 
be  used,  to  avoid  rust),  is  the  most  effectual  safeguard  we 
have  ever  tried.  The  frame  must  not  be  quite  as  high  as 
the  lower  sash,  as  room  is  needed  to  push  in  the  spring  to 
open  or  close  the  window.  The  outside  doors  and  those  lead- 
ing from  the  kitchen  to  the  dining-room  may  have  frames  fitted 
in  the  same  manner,  ŌĆö  the  frame  having  a  cross-piece  in  the 
middle.  It  can  be  hung  on  hinges,  having  a  hook  in  the 
cross-piece  to  fasten  it  with,  while  the-  real  door  may  be 
kept  open  all  day,  excluding  the  flies,  but  leaving  freedom  for 
the  air  to  circulate.  By  a  few  days'  extra  care  the  family 
will  soon  learn  to  close  this  net  door,  or  swarms  of  flies  will 
quickly  remind  them  of  any  heedlessness  in  this  matter.  A 
wire  net  is  the  most  durable,  although  more  expensive  at 
first ;  but  it  will  soon  repay  the  extra  expense,  for  lace  or  net- 
ting must  be  renewed  every  year.  Yet  notwithstanding 
these  precautions,  the  flies  will  often  effect  an  entrance,  es- 
pecially into  the  dining-room  when  dishing  the  dinner,  or 
when  merry,  heedless  children  rush  in  and  out,  always  for- 


JUNE  CARES.  45 

getting  to  close  tlie  door.  Cut  old  newspapers  in  strips  an 
incli  or  an  inch  and  a  half  wide,  nearly  the  whole  length  of 
the  sheet,  leavmg  only  about  two  inches  uncut  at  the  top. 
Take  a  smooth  round  stick  about  two  feet  long,  and  laying 
three  or  four  of  these  cut  papers  together,  wind  the  uncut 
part  about  the  stick.  Tie  the  paper  on  with  strong  twine, 
very  tightly,  so  that  it  will  not  slip,  leaving  the  long  ribbons 
of  paper  hanging  loose,  and  you  have  a  most  effectual  fly- 
hrush.  Cheap  caKco  is  still  better,  as  paper  tears  easily  and 
litters  the  room.  Keep  one  always  on  hand  for  the  kitchen, 
and  two  for  the  parlor  and  dining-room.  If  the  flies  have  se- 
cured an  entrance  during  the  dishing  of  dinner,  when  it  is 
served  spread  a  large  piece  of  netting  over  the  table  to  protect 
the  food  from  dust  or  the  flies  you  may  brush  down.  Open 
the  door,  let  tAVO  persons  take  each  a  fly-brush,  and,  standing 
opposite  the  door,  swmg  the  brush  in  concert  through  the 
room  swiftly  toward  the  door,  and  it  will  be  amusing  and 
gratifying  to  observe  how  hastily  the  intruders  will  vacate 
the  premises.  One  or  two  well-directed  charges  will  leave 
you  free  to  shut  the  net  door,  remove  the  netting  from. the 
table,  and  partake  of  your  dinner  unmolested. 


46      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

XIII. 
PURE  AIR  AND  THOROUGH   VENTILATION". 

AT  aU  seasons  of  the  year  it  is  important  tliat  the 
house  should  be  kept  dry  and  well  ventilated ;  but 
extra  precautions  are  necessary  in  warm  weather.  The 
nights  are  often  close  and  sultry  ;  windows  are  left  open  with 
the  hope  ŌĆö  often  a  vain  one  ŌĆö  that  an  occasional  breeze  may 
deign  to  sweep  through  the  rooms,  and  assist  us  in  the  labor 
of  breathing.  And  here  is  danger.  The  night  air,  what 
there  may  be  of  it,  and  the  heavy  morning  fogs,  fiU  the  house 
with  dampness.  The  bedclothes  are  moist  and  disagreeable. 
The  garments  laid  off  on  retiring  at  night,  if  left  near  an 
open  window,  are  heavy  with  dew.  Fever  and  ague,  rheu- 
matism, cholera,  and  dysentery  lurk  always  in  such  an  atmos- 
phere. One  of  the  best  preventives  is  a  quick  blaze,  in  an 
opea  fireplace  or  stove,  immediately  after  rising ;  no  matter 
how  warm  the  weather  may  be.  A  handful  of  brush  or  light 
wood,  just  to  make  a  blaze,  expel  the  bad  air,  and  dri/  the 
rooms,  not  heat  them,  is  all  that  is  needed. 

Those  who  can  be  in  the  country  during  the  summer  wiU. 
have  no  difficulty  in  finding  plenty  of  brush,  ŌĆö  dead  branches, 
or  sprouts,  or  bushes,  cut  off  in  clearing  up  the  fields  or 
hedges.  On  a  rainy  day,  when  outdoor  work  or  play  cannot 
be  advantageously  attended  to,  a  child  could  easily  cut  them 
up  into  foot  or  foot  and  a  half  lengths,  tie  them  in  fagots, 
and  pile  them  neatly  in  the  wood-house,  ready  for  use.  Keep 
one  of  these  fagots  always  in  the  fireplace  or  stove,  ready 
for  lighting  every  morning.  It  will  dry  and  purify  the  air 
wonderfully,  and  save  doctors'  bills  and  much  sickness. 

Aside  from  the  ill  effects  of  dampness,  the  air  is  full  of 


PURE  AIR  AND  THOROUGH    VENTILATION.  47 

impurities  arising  from  the  body,  and.  more  injurious  through 
the  night  than  in  the  day.     Professor  Youmans  says  ;  ŌĆö 

"  The  escape  of  offensive  matter  from  tlie  body  becomes 
most  obvious  when,  from  out  of  the  pure  air  in  the  morn- 
ing, one  enters  an  unventilated  bedroom  where  one  or  two 
have  slept  the  night  before.  Every  one  must  have  experi- 
enced the  sickening  and  disgusting  odor  upon  going  into 
such  a  room,  though  its  occupants  themselves  do  not  recog- 
nize it.  The  nose,  although  an  organ  of  excessive  sensibility, 
and  capable  of  perceiving  the  presence  of  offensive  matters 
where  the  most  delicate  chemical  tests  fail,  is  nevertheless  easily 
blunted,  and  what  at  the  first  impression  is  pre-eminently 
disgusting,  t^uickly  becomes  less  offensive  to  the  smell ;  but  the 
impure  air  has  not  departed.  Two  persons,  occupying  a  bed 
for  eight  hours,  impart  to  the  sheets  by  insensible  perspira- 
tion, and  to  the  air  by  breathing,  a  pound  of  watery  vapor 
charged  with  latent  animal  poison.  When  the  air  in  other 
inhabited  rooms  is  not  often  changed,  the  water  of  exhala- 
tion, thus  loaded  with  impurities,  condenses  upon  the  furni- 
ture, windows,  and  walls,  dampening  their  surfaces,  and 
running  down  in  unwholesome  streams. 

"  Yet  we  are  not  to  regard  the  human  body  as  necessarily 
impure,  or  a  focus  of  repulsive  emanations.  It  is  not  by  the 
natural  and  necessary  working  of  the  vital  machinery  that 
the  air  is  poisoned,  but  by  its  artificial  confinement,  and  the 
accumulation  of  deleterious  substances." 

In  speaking  of  the  prevalent  inattention  to  a  perfect  venti- 
lation in  our  homes,  and  the  need  of  great  care  in  this  respect, 
if  we  woidd  secure  health,  Youmans  also  refers  to  the  "  gas- 
eous exhalations,  of  every  sort,  that  escape  from  our  kitch- 
ens, filling  the  house  with  unpleasant  odors  ;  the  imperfect 
combustion  of  oil  and  tallow  in  lighting  our  homes ;  the 
defective  burning  of  gas-jets  "  ;  and  the  injurious  effects  upon 
health,  ŌĆö  causing  severe  head-aches,  if  nothing  worse  ;  to  the 


48      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

destruction  to  health  from  the  poisonous  influences  of  green 
paper-hangings  upon  the  air,  from  which  the-hne  particles, 
loosened  by  dusting  or  moving  about  the  room,  are  set  afloat 
in  the  atmosphere,  and  are  often  very  deadly. 

Then  from  the  decayed  vegetables  ŌĆö  carelessly  allowed  to 
remain  sometimes  for  days  in  our  cellars  ŌĆö  and  the  damp 
and  stagnant  air  of  cellars  and  basements  come  exhalations 
most  destructive  to  health.  Even  dry  closets  and  rooms  in 
upper  stories  become  moldy  and  musty  if  not  often  and 
thoroughly  aired.  "To  be  pure  and  healthy,  air  requires 
continual  circulation ;  but  cellars  are  rarely  either  ventilated 
or  made  dry  by  water-proof  walls  or  floors,  and  are  usually 
damp,  cold,  unclean,  and  moldy. 

"  The  air  from  these  basements  and  cellars  ascends  to  the 
upper  rooms  in  such  small  quantities  that  it  does  not  produce 
immediate  disease  ;  yet  it  so  gradually  undermines  the  health 
as  not  to  be  perceptible.  Many  an  invalid,  who  fancies 
himself  benefited  by  the  change  of  air  in  going  to  another 
residence,  is  really  only  improved  by  escaping  the  moldy 
atmosphere  that  arises  from  beneath  his  own  ground-floor." 

By  quoting  thus  largely  from  Professor  Toumans,  we  bring 
good  authority  for  the  particular  and  earnest  advice  we  have 
offered  to  our  "  young  housekeepers  "  with  regard  to  the  dry- 
ing and  ventilating  every  part  of  their  houses.  "We  doubt 
not  many  a  one,  who  has  begun  with  sound  health,  has 
gradually  sunk  into  a  confirmed  invahd,  when  the  principal 
cause  could  be  traced  back  to  carelessness  in  this  seemingly 
unimportant  duty.  And  those  who  are  thus  slowly  poisoned 
by  the  impure  air  which  comes  through  this  neglect  of  duty 
are  the  most  ready  recipients  of  all  infectious  and  epidemic 
diseases. 

It  is  always  well  to  have  either  a  bath  fuU  of  water  near 
where  one  sleeps,  or,  if  no  bath,  a  pail  or  tub  full  set  into 
the  room,  as  water  is  one  of  the  best  disinfectants,  cleansing 


MILK  AND   BUTTER.  49 

the  air  by  taking  up  all  the  impurities  from  it  as  fast  as  they 
arise.  But  this  water  should  be  let  off  in  the  morning,  and 
fresh  water  used  for  bathing  or  washing ;  and  if  you  need 
drinking  water  in  your  bedroom,  ŌĆö  and  it  is  well  always  to 
have  it  near,  ŌĆö  do  not  let  it  remain  open  in  your  room,  as  it 
absorbs  impurities,  and  would  be  unfit  for  drinking ;  but 
either  have  a  lid  to  your  pitcher  or  cover  it  over  with  a  thin 
cloth,  to  keep  dust  and  insects  out,  and  set  it  on  the  ledge 
outside  your  window,  in  the  pure,  fresh  air. 


XIV. 
MILK   AND    BUTTER. 

JULY  and  August  are  trying  months  for  those  who  have 
charge  of  milk  and  butter,  unless  the  work  to  be  done 
is  performed  in  large  establishments  devoted  entirely  to  it. 
"When  a  milk-house  is  built  under  large  trees,  to  shield  it 
from  the  fierce  heat  of  the  midday  sun,  with  a  stream  of  pure 
cold  water  running  through  it,  the  labor  is  diminished  full 
one  half.  Indeed,  we  should  not  call  it  labor,  but  an  exhil- 
arating amusement  to  take  charge  of  such  an  one  as  we 
saAv,  a  few  weeks  ago,  in  Norwich,  Chenango  County,  New 
York.  We  have  not  thought  of  it  since  without  a  longing, 
amounting  almost  to  coveting  our  neighbor's  work.  To  find 
this  house  among  the  trees,  away  from  the  confusion  and 
turmoil  of  the  town,  which  is-  shaken  by  the  ceaseless 
din  of  more  noisy  occupations,  was  most  restful  and  tran- 
quillizing ;  the  music  of  the  rich,  green  leaves  among  the 
long  sweeping  branches,  and  the  murmur  of  the  restless 
brook,  could  not  fail  to  give  a  spring  and  elasticity  to  the 
spirits  that  must,  in  a  great  measure,  overcome  the  sense  of 

3  .     D 


50      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

fatigue.  This  was  our  first  impression,  as  we  stood  outside 
the  unpretentious  building,  and  it  was  in  nowise  changed 
when  we  stepped  upon  tlie  smooth  floor,  as  white  as  good 
soap,  fresh  water,  and  a  wilKng  arm  could  make  it. 

Our  attention  was  immediately  attracted  by  the  sound  of 
machinery.  In  the  farther  corner  of  the  room  stood  two 
large  barrel-churns,  the  dashers  of  both  moving  up  and  down 
with  an  easy,  uniform  motion,  impelled  by  the  wheel  and  belt 
overhead,  to  which  they  were  attached.  'No  fears  for  the  ach- 
ing back  and  tired  arms  neutralized  our  enjoyment,  for  the 
woman  in  charge  sat,  resting  by  the  open  door,  till  the  butter 
was  ready  to  be  taken  out  into  the  "  butter-worker." 

A  large  trough,  some  twelve  or  fourteen  feet  long,  six  or 
eight  wide,  and  perhaps  four  deep  (we  simply  use  our  Yankee 
privilege  of  guessing  at  the  dimensions),  and  hned  with  tin, 
was  placed  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  where  the  curd  for 
"  skimmed  cheese,"  made  from  milk  after  all  the  cream  was 
removed,  was  "  set."  This  and  the  churning  arrangements 
occupied  half  the  building.  The  other  half  was  a  large  tank, 
through  which  the  water  from  the  brook  flowed  continually. 
Into  this  reservoir,  always  fuU,  taU.  tin  cans,  between  two 
or  three  feet  high,  and  perhaps  a  foot  across,  were  set.  Little 
danger  that  milk  in  that  cool  bed  would  sour  before  aU  the 
cream  had  been  risen.  About  this  tank  ran  a  wide  shelf  or 
ledge,  on  which  stood  great  tubs  of  golden  butter  waiting  to 
be  sent  to  market. 

In  the  second  story,  equally  cool  and  clean,  large  shelves 
were  placed,  where  the  cheeses  are  kept  to  dry,  or  ripen,  en- 
tirely separate  from  the  butter. 

This  is  a  very  tame  description  of  a  scene  of  labor  which 
was  to  us  exceedingly  interesting.  We  must  now  hasten  to 
speak  of  that  which  is  real  care  and  labor,  ŌĆö  the  manage- 
ment of  smaU  dairies,  where  butter  is  only  made  for  home 
consumption. 


MILK  AND  BUTTER.  51 

The  most  scruiDulous  cleanliness  must  be  recognized  as 
being  absolutely  indispensable.  If  all  else  is  done  to  perfec- 
tion, and  that  is  wanting,  you  cannot  have  good  butter.  As 
you  skim  one  mess,  be  sure  that  the  shelf  on  which  it  stood 
is  faithfully  scrubbed  and  left  unoccupied  until  it  becomes 
dry.  Every  utensil  used  about  milk  or  cream  shoidd  be 
kept  for  this,  and  drafted  into  no  other  service.  Many  ob- 
ject to  using  soap  in  washing  milk  pans,  pails,  etc.  But  we 
have  great  affection  and  reverence  for  soap,  and  cannot 
imagine  that  its  free  use  can  harm  any  article  employed 
about  a  dairy.  "We  always  insist  that  the  pails,  pans,  skim- 
mers, butter-prints,  and  churn  be  washed  in  very  hot  suds  ; 
if  a  servant  fears  to  risk  her  hands,  we  use  our  own.  A 
small,  pointed  scrub-brush  must  be  used  to  scoiu'  the  seams, 
corners,  handles,  etc.,  of  all  the  utensils,  and  particularly  the 
strainers  in  the  pads.  After  this  scrubbing  is  well  done, 
rinse  in  an  abundance  of  hot  water,  and  then  pour  over  all 
a  large  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Let  the  articles  stand  in  this 
a  short  time,  then  wipe  with  clean  towels,  and  turn  down  on 
a  stand  or  shelf  prepared  for  them  outdoors,  where  the  sun 
will  sweeten  them  perfectly.  Even  in  rainy  days,  better 
leave  them  out  an  hour  or  two  that  they  may  have  the  bene- 
fit of  the  air  at  least,  if  deprived  of  sun ;  then  \\dpe  them 
dry,  and  bring  into  the  milk-room  before  night. 

A  small  unpainted  tub  should  be  kept  expressly  to  wash 
milk-things  in.  The  brush,  wash-cloths,  and  drying  towels 
ought  all  to  be  marked,  and  never  used  for  any  other  purpose. 
See  that  they  are  washed,  scalded,  and  hung  to  dry,  outdoors 
if  possible,  every  time  they  are  used. 

If  the  milk-room  or  cellar  is  small  and  not  ventilated,  it 
is  very  difiicidt  in  July  and  August  to  keep  milk  sweet  long 
enough  for  all  the  cream  to  rise.  While  the  weather  is  very 
hot,  unless  one  has  a  deep,  cold  cellar,  or  a  spring  of  water 
running  through  it,  it  is  well  to  scald  the  milk  when  first 


52      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

brought  in.  Have  a  kettle  half  full  of  hoiling  water  over  the 
fire  ;  strain  the  milk  into  a  clean  pail,  and  set  it  into  the  boil- 
ing water  until  it  gets  scalding  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Be 
sure  and  remove  it  before  it  rises  in  wrinkles  on  top.  If  too 
hot,  the  butter  will  have  a  disagreeable  taste.  The  butter  is 
never  quite  as  good,  but  the  cream  rises  more  rapidly,  before 
the  milk  has  time  to  change,  ŌĆö  a  very  important  gain,  and 
one  to  be  considered  in  case  of  a  small  cellar. 

In  very  warm  weather,  with  no  more  protection  than  is 
generally  found  in  small  dairies,  it  is  not  often  possible  to  keep 
milk  over  twenty-four  hours  before  skimming.  Every  min- 
ute the  cream  remains  on  the  milk,  after  it  changes,  is  an 
injury  to  the  butter.  Thirty-six  hours  is  the  proper  time  for 
milk  to  stand,  when  the  weather  is  cool  enough  to  keep  it 
sweet.  Some  keep  it  forty-eight  hours,  on  the  plea  that 
more  butter  is  secured.  We  doubt  if  it  is  so ;  but  whatever 
is  gamed  in  quantity,  by  keeping  milk  so  long  unskimmed, 
is  certainly  lost  in  quality.  Many  think  it  important  to 
keep  the  cream  till  rii^e,  or  sour,  before  churning.  We 
think  it  a  mistake,  if  good,  sweet  butter  is  the  thing 
sought.  In  cool  weather  we  churn  when  the  cream  is  as 
sweet  as  that  wliich  is  used  for  coffee.  In  July  and  August 
the  cream  will  sour,  and  the  flavor  of  the  butter  shows  the 
difference.  As  soon  as  the  butter  "  comes,"  it  must  be  well 
washed  down  from  tlie  sides  of  the  churn,  and  gathered  into 
a  mass.  If  very  warm,  wash  a  piece  of  ice  and  put  it  into 
the  churn,  leaving  the  butter  five  or  ten  minutes  to  harden 
before  putting  it  into  the  "butter-bowl,"  which,  with  the 
butter-ladle  and  churn,  should  have  been  kept  full  of  cold 
water  all  night.  When  the  butter  is  firm  enough  to  work 
over,  take  it  into  the  bowl  and  throw  in  a  handful  of  salt ; 
we  fancy  it  causes  the  buttermilk  to  run  off  more  easily ; 
work  out  all  the  buttermilk  as  gently  as  possible  ;  too  much 
working  or  rough  handling  injures  the  grain  of  the  butter. 


MAKING  CHEESE.  63 

This  done,  pour  in  ice-water ;  wash  the  butter  through  that ; 
pour  off,  and  add  more,  till  the  water  runs  clear.  Twice 
washing,  in  a  generous  quantity,  should  be  sufficient.  Then 
taste,  and  see  how  much  more  salt  is  needed.  After  the 
washing,  press  the  butter  with  the  ladle  tdl  no  water 
runs ;  toss  it  into  a  compact  roll,  cover  with  a  clean  linen 
cloth,  and  put  into  the  ice-chest  till  next  morning,  when  it 
must  be  again  broken  up,  worked  over,  and  packed  into  a 
butter-pail  or  jar,  pounded  down  compactly,  and  covered  with 
strong  brine,  in  which  pulverized  saltpetre  ŌĆö  a  great  spoon- 
ful to  four  quarts  of  brine  ŌĆö  has  been  dissolved.  Cover  the 
jar  or  pail  closely,  and  set  in  the  ice-chest  or  a  cool  place. 

This  method  will  insure  good  butter  the  year  round.  It  is 
the  buttermilk  left  in  most  of  our  market  butter  that  gives 
us  so  much  poor  butter.  If  that  remains,  no  brine  or  care 
can  make  it  sweet. 

The  Blanchard  Churn  is,  we  think,  one  of  the  safest  and 
most  convenient,  as  the  washing,  salting,  and  working  can  be 
almost  entirely  done  in  the  churn,  by  turning  the  wings,  or 
dasher,  back  and  forth  half-way,  ŌĆö  pressing  out  the  butter- 
milk and  salting  it  more  evenly  and  with  far  less  fatigue. 


XV. 

MAKING  CHEESE. 

FIRST,  a  dry,  airy,  thorouglily  ventilated  room  must  be 
provided,  of  even  and  moderate  temperature.  It 
should  be  used  for  a  cheese-room  only,  and  access  denied,  if 
possible,  to  all  but  the  operator.  It  is  useless  to  attempt  the 
work  if  flies  cannot  be  excluded ;  and,  when  open  to  all, 
that  is  impossible.     The  windows  should  be  kept  open  in 


54      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

fair  weather,  Init  blinds  always  closed,  to  avoid  currents 
of  air,  except  to  admit  what  light  is  needed  while  the 
work  is  being  done.  Frames  covered  with  wire  or  mosquito 
net  can  be  litted  into  the  windows,  and  a  door  of  the 
same  material  hung  inside,  shutting  closely  to  exclude  the 
flies,  yet  giving  admittance  to  as  much  air  and  light  as  are 
needed.  If  wind  and  sun  have  too  free  access  to  a  cheese- 
room,  the  cheese  cannot  ripen  properly. 

Cheese-tubs,  cheese-knives  (a  long  wooden  knife  for 
cutting  the  curd),  cheese-ladder,  hoops,  cheese-boards,  or 
folloivers,  cheese-basket,  bowl,  and  cheese-cloths  made  of 
strong  linen,  but  woven  very  loosely,  and  the  cheese-press,  ŌĆö 
these  are  the  necessary  utensils. 

The  months  from  May  to  September  are  good  cheese 
months  ;  some  keep  up  the  work  through  October  ;  but  the 
cheese  is  more  difficult  to  cure,  and  will  not  be  as  good. 

If  night  and  morning  milk  is  to  be  used,  strain  the  night's 
milk  into  pans,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  In  the  morning 
take  off  all  the  cream  ;  heat  the  skimmed  milk  to  95┬░  or  100┬░, 
pour  it  into  the  cheese-tub  with  the  morning's  milk,  and  stir  in 
the  cream  ;  add  the  rennet,  and  mix  all  well  together  with  the 
long  wooden  cheese-knife  or  a  wooden  spoon ;  cover  the  tub 
with  a  close-fitting  cover,  and  spread  over  that  a  thick  cheese- 
blanket,  to  keep  in  the  heat  while  the  curd  is  forming.  The 
milk,  when  drawn  from  the  cows,  is  from  85┬░  to  90┬░,  and 
until  the  curd  is  well  set,  it  should  not  lose  more  than  from 
five  to  seven  degrees  of  its  natural  heat.  See  that  the  cows 
are  driven  to  and  from  their  pasture  gently ;  for,  if  they  "get 
over-heated,  the  milk  will  rise  above  the  natural  heat,  and 
must  be  cooled  off'  before  the  rennet  is  stirred  in  ;  as,  if  the 
milk,  either  from  this  cause  or  any  other,  is  over  90┬░  when  it 
is  set,  the  cheese  will  be  spongy  and  of  very  poor  flavor,  or 
no  flavor  at  all.  If  the  milk  is  too  cold  the  curd  will  be  so 
tender  it  will  never  become  firm,  but  will  bulge  out  at  the 


MAKING   CHEESE.  55 

side,  and  will  not  keep.  Ee  sure  and  ascertain  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  milk  always,  before  adding  rennet.  If  the  milk 
is  too  cold,  heat  some  milk  and  stir  in,  until  the  whole  rises 
to  the  proper  temperature ;  if  too  warm,  wait  till  it  cools 
sufficiently  before  adding  the  rennet.  The  quantity  of  ren- 
net to  be  used  depends  so  much  on  the  quality  of  the  article, 
that  experience  only  can  teach  the  exact  amount  to  use.  If 
good  and  strong,  two  ounces  is  quite  enough  for  sixty  quarts 
of  milk.  The  curd  Avill  have  set  firmly  in  an  hour  or  an 
hour  and  a  half,  when  it  must  be  cut  gently,  first  round  the 
sides  of  the  tub,  then  across  in  lines,  reaching  the  long 
wooden  cheese-knife  to  the  bottom  of  the  tub,  each  time 
about  an  inch  from  the  last ;  then  cut  in  the  opposite 
direction,  forming  squares,  to  give  the  whey  an  opportu- 
nity to  rise  above  the  curd.  Let  it  settle  a  few  minutes. 
Then  throw  over  the  tub  a  large  square  cheese-cloth,  or 
strainer,  and  after  the  curd  has  settled  and  the  whey  risen 
to  the  top,  sink  the  strainer  into  it  and  dip  off  the  whey 
as  closely  as  it  can  be  done.  The  strainer  is  then  spread 
over  a  square  splint  cheese-basket,  woven  very  loose  and 
open,  and  the  basket  set  on  the  cheese-^acMer,  which  is  laid 
across  another  tub.  The  curd  must  now  be  cut  into  small 
pieces  gently,  and  put  into  the  strainer.  The  corners  of  the 
cloth  are  then  gathered  up  and  twisted  tightly  together,  and  a 
flat,  smooth  stone,  kept  for  that  purpose,  of  about  twelve  or  fif- 
teen pounds'  weight,  laid  upon  it,  to  press  the  whey  from  the 
curd.  It  should  stand  an  hour ;  and,  while  draining,  such 
things  as  will  be  no  more  needed  to  finish  the  work  for  the 
day  can  be  washed,  scalded,  and  set  out  to  dry  ;  for,  of 
course,  hot  water  is  always  ready. 

The  curd  when  ready  is  removed  to  a  large  wooden  cheese- 
bowl,  cixt  in  slices,  and  a  pail  of  the  whey  heated  to  120┬░ 
or  130┬░  is  poured  over  it.  Great  judgment  and  care  are 
required  here,  as,  if  scalded  too  much,  it  makes  the  cheese 


5G      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

hard ;  if  not  enough,  the  cheese  wi]l  spread  and  crack.  The 
hot  Avhey  should  be  left  on  till  the  curd  will  "  squeak  "  ŌĆö 
as  the  children  used  to  call  it  ŌĆö  when  bitten ;  then  returned 
again  to  the  strainer  and  basket,  to  drain  free  of  the  hot 
whey.  This  done,  cut  it  up  again  fine  ;  put  in  the  salt,  and 
thoroughly  stir  it  in.  The  taste  is  the  best  criterion  to  judge 
of  the  quantity,  ŌĆö  about  six  ounces  to  every  fifteen  pounds 
of  curd  is  a  fair  estimate.  A  cheese-cloth  must  now  be  laid 
over  the  hoop ;  the  curd  dipped  into  it,  pressed  down,  but 
heaped  up  in  the  centre ;  the  corners  of  the  cloth  folded 
smoothly  over,  and  the  first  cheese-board,  with  holes  all 
through  it,  put  on  ;  one  a  size  smaller  laid  over  that ;  and 
the  cheese  thus  prepared  is  ready  to  be  put  into  the  press, 
and  subjected  to  a  pressure  of  from  forty  to  sixty  pounds, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  cheese.  It  should  remain  in  the 
press  two  or  three  hours.  If  the  whey,  which  is  now  pressed 
out,  is  of  a  slightly  greenish  color,  the  curd  has  been  prop- 
erly prepared  ;  but  if  it  is  white,  like  milk,  the  curd  was 
formed  imperfectly,  and  the  cheese  will  not  be  of  the  first 
quality. 

When  the  cheese  has  remained  in  the  press  for  about  two 
hours,  some  advise  to  take  it  from  the  hoop  and  let  it  stand 
an  hour  in  hot  whey,  to  harden  the  skin.  We  do  not  like 
the  idea,  and  fancy  much  fine  flavor  would  be  lost  from  the 
cheese. 

We  should  simply  put  it  into  a  dry  cheese-cloth  and  re- 
turn it  to  the  press,  to  remain  till  next  morning.  In  chan- 
ging the  cloth,  if  any  rind  presses  over  the  top  of  the  hoop, 
cut  it  off"  smoothly  and  turn  that  side  of  the  cheese  down. 
Leave  it  now  until  the  next  morning  in  the  same  cloth  ; 
only  it  is  well  to  turn  it  over  in  the  press  several  times  in 
the  course  of  the  day. 

When  taken  from  the  press  the  last  time,  a  piece  of  cheap 
muslin  should  be  soaked  in  hot  butter  and  fitted  over  the 


A  TROUBLESOME  QUESTION.  57 

top  and  bottom,  and  a  band,  also  wet  in  butter,  bound  tight 
round  the  cheese  and  sewed  to  the  edges  of  the  top  and  bot- 
tom covers.  The  cheese  is  then  placed  on  the  shelf.  It 
will  need  rubbing  with  butter  every  day  for  some  weeks, 
and  must  be  turned  over  every  day  for  several  months,  wash- 
ing the  shelf  clean  each  time,  and  changing  the  place  so 
that  the  shelf  may  get  well  dried. 

If  the  whey  is  saved,  in  twenty-four  hours  a  thick  creamy 
substance  will  rise,  which,  if  skimmed  off  and  churned, 
forms  butter  very  quickly,  and  is  excellent  to  dress  the 
cheese  with,  ŌĆö  a  great  economy,  and  better  for  the  cheese 
than  table  butter.  Put  some  of  the  butter  into  a  tin  dish 
kept  for  that  purpose  ;  throw  in  a  small  red  pepper,  and  put 
it  over  the  fire  till  boiling  hot,  then  set  aside  for  dressing, 
leaving  the  pepper  in. 

These  directions  give  the  general  idea  of  making  cheese. 
There  are  many  varieties  of  cheese,  which  it  would  be  very 
interesting  to  notice,  pointing  out  in  what  the  difference 
consists ;  but  we  cannot  appropriate  more  space  to  this 
matter. 


XVI. 
A  TROUBLESOME  QUESTION. 

"  /^^NE  of  the  most  urgent  of  the  unsolved,  irrepressible 
V^  questions  of  the  times,"  says  the  "  Household,"  a  most 
excellent  Vermont  paper,  "  relates  to  the  trials  which  mod- 
ern housewives  experience  in  their  efforts  to  manage  their 
households  satisfactorily,  and  still  have  time  for  needful  rest 
and  social  culture.  As  yet  the  problem  remains  a  puzzle 
alike  to  the  housewife  and  to  the  philanthropist.  Labor- 
saving  machines,  which  promised  so  much  relief,  practically 
3* 


58      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

fail  to  lighten  materially  the  housekeeper's  tasks.  '  Biddy ' 
is  still  the  main  dependence  in  the  performance  of  hard  work 
in  the  kitchen  ;  yet  the  constant  oversight  which  she  usually 
requu-es  often  renders  her  services  a  doubtfid  advantage. 

"  That  the  cares  of  housekeeping  increase  faster  than 
means  are  found  for  their  disposal  seems  generally  true. 
Whether  this  is  owing  to  increased  luxuriousness  in  our 
ways  of  living,  or  whether  the  housewives  of  to-clay  lack  the 
executive  abdity  of  their  grandmothers,  remains  an  open 
question." 

It  does  not  seem  to  us  very  difficidt  to  find  the  reasons  for 
the  great  increase  of  our  domestic  cares ;  the  puzzle  is  to 
find  the  remedy. 

We  escape  much  of  the  hard  work  our  mothers  and  grand- 
mothers performed  so  energetically,  and  about  which  house- 
keepers of  the  present  day  hear  so  many  disparaging  compari- 
sons ;  for  machinery  does  better  and  far  more  expeditiously 
many  things  that  in  olden  times  coidd  only  be  accomplished 
by  hard  labor. 

The  wool  is  no  longer  carded  by  hand.  Our  factories  have 
banished  the  spinning-wheel  from  the  good  old  kitchen  fire- 
side ;  the  little  ones  nestle  no  longer  by  mother's  knee, 
watching  with  never-ceasing  wonder  and  enjoyment  the 
"  head  "  of  flax  disappear  from  the  distaff  and  become  a 
smooth,  bright  thread,  under  the  skillful  hand  and  foot  that 
keep  tjie  pretty  wheel  so  active.  The  cool  breeze,  laden 
with  the  perfume  of  cinnamon-roses  and  lilacs,  while  it 
sweeps  through  the  open  window  of  the  old  attic,  no  longer 
sports  with  golden  curls,  as  the  children  run  merry  races  in 
their  efforts  to  "  keep  step  "  when  the  long  white  rolls  of 
wool  in  the  hand  of  the  mother  are  transformed  by  the  rapid 
revolutions  of  the  big  wheel  into  yarn  for  knitting.  Little 
hands  no  longer  wind  it,  from  the  spindle  on  the  swifts, 
into  skeins,  or  fill  the  bobbins  for  the  weaver's  shuttle,  and 
no  bright  eyes  watch  it  as  it  flies  through  the  warp. 


A  TROUBLESOME  QUESTION.  59 

The  mothers  escape  the  labor  of  the  loom,  while  the  little 
folks  lose  all  this,  or  the  still  greater  sport  of  meddling  with 
the  web,  in  their  vain  efforts  to  throw  the  shuttle  through, 
or  to  hang  up  if  they  succeed,  ŌĆö  the  froHc  often  cut  short 
by  hanging  their  fingers,  instead  of  the  woof,  with  the  heavy 
beam.  Machinery  relieves  us  from  all  such  labor,  and  de- 
prives our  children  of  much  real  fun,  for  which  there  is  no 
compensation. 

We  almost  regret  those  old-fashioned  times,  and  often 
wonder  if  the  elegancies  and  (supposed)  increased  comforts 
of  our  modern  dwellings  are  a  sufficient  compensation  for 
tlie  multiplied  labor  and  the  necessity  for  so  much  more 
help  which  we  are  forced  to  employ.  For  though  our  moth- 
ers and  grandmothers  did  more  rough,  homely  work,  we  do 
not  believe  that  they  had  half  so  hard  a  time  in  doing  it 
as  their  daughters  have  in  their  efforts  to  teach  modern 
servants  how  to  perform  the  necessary  labor  of  our  present 
style  of  housekeeping.  To  weave  a  web  of  cloth  is  but 
child's  play,  compared  to  the  worry  and  disappointment  and 
mortification  that  cause  our  modern  housekeepers  to  "  die 
deaths  daily,"  through  the  utter  incompetency  of  those  they 
are  compelled  to  have  about  them.  The  tyranny  of  our 
modern  style  of  living  increases  the  proper  amount  of  work 
to  be  done  far  beyond  what  one  pair  of  hands  can  perform. 

We  think  the  deterioration  is  in  the  servants,  and  not  in 
the  mistresses.  With  all  loving  respect  for  our  mothers  and 
grandmothers,  we  feel  confident  that  their  daughters'  execu- 
tive ability  is  equal  to  their  own. 

To  be  sure,  husbands  will  tell  of  their  mothers'  ginger- 
bread, pies,  and  doughnuts,  and,  with  an  air  of  hopeless  long- 
ing or  patient  endurance,  wonder  why  nobody  "  nowadays  " 
can  ever  cook  as  tlieir  mothers  did  ! 

To  be  sure  !  Why  can't  they  %  For  the  very  reason  that 
our   husbands    cannot    eat  "  ever  so   many "    pickles,  pies, 


60   MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

gingerbread,  and  big  bowls  of  bread  and  milk,  as  they  used 
to  do  on  returning  from  school ;  finish  off  with  a  pocketful 
of  apples,  and  then  be  half  ready  to  cry  that  their  contain- 
ing powers  are  not  equal  to  their  appetites..  A  good  game 
of  "  tag,"  however,  up  the  front  stars,  down  the  back,  through 
the  long  hall  once  or  twice,  soon  remedied  that  difficulty  in 
boyhood.  If  husbands  will  only  let  their  brains  run  wild 
for  a  short  time,  quit  study,  forget  business,  gold  markets, 
and  all  such  corroding  cares,  and  be  wild,  harum-scarum 
boys  once  more,  their  wives'  gingerbread  will  taste  just  as 
good  as  their  mothers'  and  grandmothers'  did.  That  is  the 
trouble  with  the  husbands'  appetites.  But  the  house-keep- 
ers' troubles  lie  deeper  than  this. 

The  whole  routine  of  modern  housekeeping  is  much  more 
complex  than  in  our  parents'  time.  To  be  sure,  they  rose 
early ;  parents  and  children  then  knew  what  "  sunrise " 
meant,  for  they  were  dressed  and  at  work  before  the  sun's 
red  wheel  began  to  rise  over  the  eastern  border.  The 
cows  were  milked,  the  milk  put  in  the  cool  milk-cellar,  the 
butter  made,  the  breakfast  ready  ŌĆö  a  good  substantial, 
healthy  breakfast  ŌĆö  long  before  the  time  when  our  house- 
keepers of  to-day  are  out  of  their  beds,  ''Early  to  bed, 
early  to  rise,"  simple,  nourishing  meals,  quiet  home  pleas- 
ures,ŌĆö  not  many  hours  spent  in  senseless  calls,  but  an  oc- 
casional good  old-fashioned  visit  to  keep  the  heart  fresh  and. 
living,  ŌĆö  these  insured  health  and  strength,  good  digestion, 
tranquil  sleep,  and  cheerful  homes. 

Early  rising  facilitates  the  action  of  the  domestic  machin- 
ery in  a  wonderful  manner.  One  hour  lost  or  wasted  in  the 
morning  clogs  the  wheels,  and  the  work  drags  heavily  all 
day.  One  hour  gained  is  the  best  lubricator  in  the  world. 
Everything  glides  along  smoothly,  ŌĆö  head,  heart,  and  hands 
work  in  harmony. 

Once,  when  a  little  girl,  we  were  in  despair  because  our 


A  TROUBLESOME  QUESTION.  61 

"  stent "  was  not  finished  in  season  for  us  to  go  a  berry- 
ing with  the  brothers  and  sisters.  Taking  her  kerchief 
from  the  black  satin  reticule  that  always  hung  on  her 
arm  when  knitting,  the  dear  old  grandmother  gently  wiped 
the  fast-falhng  tears,  saying,  "  Ah,  little  one  !  you  did  n't 
want  to  get  up  this  morning  when  the  others  did.  Remem- 
ber that  if  you  lose  an  hour  in  the  morning  you  will  waste 
half  a  dozen  hunting  it  all  day  long,  and  deprive  yourself  of 
much  pleasure.  I  'd  try  and  remember,  if  I  were  you,  never 
to  lose  another." 

We  regret,  for  their  own  comfort,  that  our  present  house- 
keepers do  not  retain  their  parents'  habits  of  early  rising. 
But  contrast  the  life  of  our  parents  with  the  modern  life  of 
their  descendants.  The  demands  of  society,  late  hours,  too 
much  visiting  and  company,  make  laggards  in  the  morning ; 
and  the  appetite,  injured  by  untimely  eating  at  these  late 
hours,  is  supposed  to  need  coaxing  with  dainties  at  breakfast. 
The  elaborate  breakfast  requires  as  much  time  and  labor  as 
belongs  to  a  dinner  ;  and  the  dinner,  with  all  the  variety 
that  etiquette  claims,  ŌĆö  several  courses,  and  a  multitude  of 
dishes  consequent  upon  these  courses,  ŌĆö  increases  the  labor 
immensely ;  and,  unless  blessed  with  a  good  corps  of  servants, 
requiring  little  oversight,  we  can  secure  little  time  for  rest, 
reading,  or  sewing.  8uch  servants  are  seldom  granted  to 
mortals  in  our  times.  Twenty  years  ago,  one  girl,  without 
any  of  the  modern  improvements,  ŌĆö -  water  to  be  brought 
from  the  street  pumps,  suds  to  be  taken  up  and  emptied  in 
tlie  gutter,  ŌĆö accomplished  more  work,  and  made  the  family 
more  comfortable,  than  three  or  four  will  do  now. 

We  are  inclined  to  believe  that  the  heaviest  trials  of 
housekeeping  may  be  traced,  not  to  the  degeneracy  of  our 
mothers'  daughters,  but  to  a  marked  and  most  unfortunate 
change  in  the  character  and  capacity  of  our  "  help."  (1)  This 
is  no  freak  of  the  imagination.     Some  few  families  still  re- 


G2      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

tain  servants  that  have  been  with  tliem  for  years,  and  such 
housekeepers  have  no  sympathy  with  their  less  favored  sis- 
ters ;  but  let  death  or  marriage  remove  these  comforts,  and 
compel  them  to  seek  others  to  replace  the  old  and  well-tried 
ones,  and  they  will  learn  that  this  complaint  has  very  sub- 
stantial foundations. 

What  remedy  may  be  found  it  is  impossible  to  say.  In 
part  our  housekeepers  are  to  blame.  They  have  such  horror 
of  being  left  without  help,  such  dread  of  constant  changes, 
that  they  live  as  slaves  to  the  whims  and  caprices  of  an 
ignorant  class  of  persons,  who  soon  recognize  their  fears 
and  dependence,  and  use  this  knowledge  to  extort  high 
wages  for  very  little  service,  ŌĆö  compelling  theix  mistresses  to 
pass  over  their  impudence  and  arrogance  by  bold  threats  of 
leaving. 

This  lack  of  independence,  this  fear  to  assert  their  own 
authority  and  rights,  is,  we  apprehend,  in  a  great  measure 
the  cause  of  the  insubordination  and  uselessness  of  the  girls 
of  the  present  time.  When  they  learn  that  their  services 
will  not  be  accepted  unless  faithfidly  rendered,  we  may  look 
for  easier  and  happier  times.  But  how  is  this  to  be  accom- 
pHshed  1  A  few  cannot  remedy  the  evil.  It  can  only  be 
effected  by  general  co-operation.  We  are  not  willing  to  ac- 
knowledge that  the  housekeepers  of  the  past  were  any  more 
capable  than  those  of  our  time ;  but  we  do  think  that  our 
position,  owing  to  the  great  annoyance  we  are  subjected  to 
from  the  kitchen  cabinet,  is  far  more  trying  than  our  moth- 
ers' could  have  been. 

What  sort  of  housekeepers  our  daughters  will  become, 
enervated  by  late  hours  and  all  the  gay  and  strange  excite- 
ment of  modern  life,  and  crippled  by  the  hideous  freaks  of 
fashion,  it  is  painful  to  imagine  and  impossible  to  fortell. 


WOMAN'S   KINGDOM.  63 

XVII. 
WOMAN'S  KINGDOM. 

"  T  SEE  unrest,  discontent,  strife,  and  sin :  I  see  girls  ŌĆö 
I  children  in  years  ŌĆö  from  whose  cheek  the  first  blush 
of  innocence,  from  whose  soul  the  last  vestige  of  youth,  have 
vanished ;  women  sold  to  frivolity ;  women  wasting  most 
precious  gifts ;  women  whose  ambition  has  no  higher  object 
than  to  mislead  and  triumph  over  men  ;  men  growing  hard, 
selfish,  and  wicked,  the  slaves  of  their  passions,  going 
down  to  death,  with  no  hand  to  save,  ŌĆö  all  for  the  lack  of  a 
true  home.  Then  I  remember  that  the  home  is  the  true  king- 
dom of  woman,  where  her  rights  can  never  be  dethroned ; 
that  all  pure  love,  all  right  thoughts,  all  religion,  all  govern- 
ments, if  you  would  have  them  live,  must  have  their  roots 
beneath  its  altar.  This  conviction  impels  me  to  say  to  every 
woman  who  has  a  home.  Let  home  stand  first,  before  all  other 
things  !  1^0  matter  how  high  your  ambition  may  transcend 
its  duties,  no  matter  how  far  your  talents  or  your  influence 
may  reach  beyond  its  doors,  before  everything  else  build 
up  a  true  home  !  Be  not  its  slave  !  Be  its  minister  !  Let 
it  not  be  enough  that  it  is  swept  and  garnished,  that  its  sil- 
ver glistens,  that  its  food  is  delicious.  Feed  the  love  in  it. 
Feed  the  truth  in  it.  Feed  thought  and  aspiration,  feed 
all  charity  and  gentleness  in  it.  Then  from  its  walls  shall 
come  forth  the  true  woman  and  the  true  man,  who,  together, 
shall  rule  and  bless  the  land." 

Is  this  an  overwrought  picture  1  "We  think  not.  What 
honor  can  be  greater  than  to  found  such  a  home  ?  What 
dignity  higher  than  to  reign  its  undisputed,  honored  mis- 
tress %     What  is  the  ability  to  speak  on  a  public  platform  to 


64      MOTHEELY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

large,  intelligent  audiences,  or  the  wisdom  that  may  command 
a  seat  on  a  judge's  bench,  compared  to  that  which  can  insure 
and  preside  over  a  true  home,  with  such  skill  that  husband 
and  children  "  rise  up  and  call  her  blessed "  1  To  be  the 
guidiiig  star,  the  ruhng  spirit,  in  such  a  position  is  higher 
honor  than  to  rule  an  empire.  Woman's  rights  !  Has  man 
any  higher  rights  than  these  % 

To  be  sure  man  often  abuses  liis  power,  and  brings  sor- 
row and  woe  upon  her  who,  trusting  and  loving  him,  should 
always  be  the  mistress  of  his  heart,  an  equal  partner  in  all 
his  possessions,  his  joys,  and  his  sorrows.  But  are  there  no 
cases  on  record  where  "  the  woman  Thou  gavest  me  "  has 
abused  the  power  with  which  the  marriage  vow  endowed 
her ;  destroying  the  peace,  and  making  shipwreck  of  all  that 
her  husband  holds  most  precious  % 

The  law  does  not  as  yet  secure  to  a  wife  such  independence 
as  will  guard  her  against  injustice  and  meanness  from  the 
hands  of  her  husband;  but  what  defence  have  they  pro- 
vided against  the  bitter  sorrows  that  bad  wives  can  bring 
down  upon  their  husbands  %  Has  any  one  ever  ascertained 
the  full  statistics,  or  clearly  estimated  the  average?  It  is 
weU,  no  doubt,  that  this  matter  has  been  so  widely  agitated, 
as  it  all  tends,  we  hope,  to  establish  the  rights  of  both 
man  and  woman  on  a  firm  foundation ;  but  if,  before  this 
*'  revolution  "  is  settled,  man  should  make  a  full  statement 
of  his  wrongs,  there  are  those  who  could  bring  forward  just 
cause  of  complaint  in  large  measure.  Ah !  if  husbands  and 
wives  would  always  remember  that,  with  them,  as  in  other 
associations,  "  union  is  strength  "  ;  that  "  united  they  stand, 
divided  they  fall "  ;  that  together  they  should  walk  tlirough 
life,  together  share  the  joys,  together  bear  the  burdens  and 
the  crosses,  ŌĆö  what  a  happy  world  this  would  be  !  If  it  is  a 
united  kingdom,  the  wife  accepts  the  rough  as  well  as  the 
smooth  of  household  rule,  as  her  part  of  the  administration. 


WOMAN'S  KINGDOM.  G5 

If  able  to  govern  without  a  "  kitchen -cabinet,"  a  happy- 
woman  is  she  !  But  if  not,  she  also  takes  the  trials  of  the 
kitchen,  the  disagreeable  details  which  must  form  a  part 
of  her  home  life,  the  vexation  of  spirit  caused  by  the  in- 
efficiency of  the  servants  of  the  present  time,  and  this  is  the 
dreariest  part,  ŌĆö  all  great  and  increasing  hindrances  to  the 
perfection  at  which  she  should  aim.  But  a  good  wife  will 
endure  these  infelicities  till  a  remedy  is  found,  remembering 
that  they  are  but  a  small  part  of  home.  The  purest,  sweetest, 
holiest  elements  that  constitute  a  home,  if  recognized  and 
administered  in  the  right  spirit,  will  enable  her  to  forget  these 
trials  in  the  joy  and  peace  that  is  set  before  her,  and  to  which 
all  may  surely  attain,  if  woman  forgets  not  her  high  calling 
in  a  poor  ambition. 

MeanAvhile  the  husband  ŌĆö  the  household  king  ŌĆö  accepts 
his  part  in  the  rule  of  this  united  kingdom.  Are  his  cares 
any  lighter  than  his  wife's  1  Look  at  them.  The  dust  and 
toil  and  strife,  the  battling  with  the  great  world  outside,  in 
whatever  sphere  his  talents  and  duties  call  him,  to  provide 
necessities,  luxuries,  or  honors,  accordingly  as  he  is  prospered, 
for  the  family  who  are  sheltered  in  his  home. 

We  think  the  joys  and  the  sorrows,  the  crosses  and  the 
crowns,  in  married  life  are  about  evenly  balanced,  and  nothing 
will  right  all  the  wrongs,  and  bring  order  out  of  the  con- 
fusion of  these  vexed  questions,  so  surely  as  the  shelter  of  a 
true  home,  ruled  hy  the  true  wife  and  mother. 


GG      MOTHEKLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

XVIII. 

THE   KITCHEN. 

UNFOETUI^ATELY,  many  ladies  have  not  health  or 
strength  sufficient  to  take  such  supervision  as  will  se- 
cure a  neat  and  well-arranged  kitchen ;  and,  still  more  unfor- 
tunately, there  are  many,  and  we  fear  the  number  is  increas- 
ing, who  have  such  repugnance  to  any  care  save  the  genteel 
arrangement  of  their  parlors,  or  the  fashionable  adornment  of 
their  persons,  that  they  shun  their  kitchens  as  they  would 
the  plague.  They  will  give  occasional  directions  for  some 
fancy  dish,  or  the  more  elaborate  details,  if  preparing  for 
company  ;  and  then,  if  their  husbands  attend  to  the  mar- 
keting, reheving  them  from  all  care,  and  the  cook  and  waiter 
have  breakfast,  dinner,  and  tea  at  the  desired  time  and 
in  proper  shape,  they  are  content.  If  their  parlors  and 
chambers  appear  neat  and  inviting,  they  ask  no  questions  as 
to  the  condition  of  their  kitchens,  and  never  inquire  if  the 
supply  of  utensils  is  adequate  to  the  amount  and  quality  of 
the  labor  the  cook  is  expected  to  perform,  or  if  they  are  of 
a  kind  to  expedite  or  simplify  her  work.  Indeed,  one  would 
suppose  that  the  kitchen  was  entirely  out  of  the  mistress's 
domains,  ŌĆö  a  region  for  which  the  cook  only  was  responsible. 
If  any  are  content  to  eat  what  is  set  before  them,  "  asking  no 
questions,"  ŌĆö  not  "for  conscience'  sake,"  but  for  the  sake  of 
their  own  indolent  self-indulgence,  ŌĆö  that  is  their  right,  and 
we  would  in  no  wise  interfere  with  the  full  enjoyment  of  it. 
But  we  know  there  are  those  who  find  no  bliss  in  such 
ignorance,  but  prefer  to  know  when  and  in  what  their  food 
is  prepared,  and  willingly  accej^t  the  care  and,  it  may  be, 
the  annoyance  which  the  knowledge  will  bring.     In  many 


THE  KITCHEN.  67 

of  the  most  palatial  abodes,  where  comforts  ami  luxuries  of 
every  character  abound,  little  attention  is  paid  to  any  com- 
fort or  convenience  connected  with  the  kitchen.  Refusing 
to  provide  straw,  Pharaoh  exacted  the  full  tale  of  brick 
from  the  Israelites  of  old ;  and  so  some  housekeepers  exact 
the  most  elaborate  meals,  without  any  thought  of  providing 
the  conveniences  which  will  best  enable  the  cook  to  gratify 
tlieir  wishes. 

We  once  watched  with  a  sick  child  belonging  to  the  rich 
family  of  the  town.  The  furniture,  the  silver  and  glass, 
were  of  the  best.  It  was  necessary  to  prepare  ivine  ivhey  for 
the  little  sufferer  during  the  night.  The  mother,  exhausted 
with  much  watching  and  anxiety  for  the  child,  was  sleeping, 
and,  unwilling  to  wake  her,  we  left  a  fellow- watcher  in 
charge  while  we  found  our  way  to  the  kitchen,  ŌĆö  if  the  mis- 
erable room  could  be  called  by  that  name.  The  floor  was  made 
of  loose,  rough  boards,  that  sprang  up  with  every  step  ;  an  old, 
dilapidated  table,  minus  one  leg,  was  propped  up  on  the  back 
of  a  chair  ;  broken  dishes,  worn-out  saucepans,  ŌĆö  in  truth,  we 
Avere  at  our  wits'  ends  to  make  even  the  simple  wine  whey  in 
such  utensils  as  we  found  in  that  strange  kitchen,  and  have 
often  since  marvelled  by  what  skill  the  excellent  dinners  and 
suppers  we  have  partaken  at  that  house  could  ever  have  been 
manufactured  in  such  a  den  and  with  such  "  conveniencies." 

Whenever  it  is  possible,  a  large,  airy  kitchen  should  be 
provided,  with  every  thmg  to  expedite  and  simplify  the 
labor,  and  with  every  facility  for  perfect  ventilation,  ŌĆö  a 
most  important  point.  In  the  homes  of  the  wealthy  there 
is  no  reason  why  the  kitchen  shoidd  not  be  in  all  respects  so 
arranged  and  furnished  that  the  cook  must  be  inexcusable  if 
she  does  not  keep  it  and  its  belongings  in  the  most  perfect 
order. 

But  for  those  who  cannot  command  the  means  to  build 
and  furnish  a  kitchen  of  this  kind,  the  necessity  for  the 


68   MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YUUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

greatest  neatness  and  order  in  that  department  is  still 
stronger.  The  occupants  of  second-class  houses  are  often 
those  who  must  themselves  do  or  overlook  much  of  the 
heaviest  labor  of  the  family,  and  therefore  have  no  time  to 
spend  in  the  doubtful  luxury  of  "  clearing-up  days."  Such 
days  are  generally  wasted  days.  Those  who  find  them  a 
necessity  are  mostly  a  class  who,  for  five  days  in  the  week, 
never  put  anything  in  its  proper  place,  leaving  all  in  disorder 
till  Satiu'day.  Then  everything  is  hunted  out  of  its  hiding- 
place,  washed,  scoured,  polished,  and  put  where  it  really 
belongs.  The  improvement  is  so  striking  that  one  would 
suppose  the  kitchen  would  never  again  be  a  scene  of  dis- 
order and  confusion ;  but  probably  before  Monday's  sun  has 
set  carelessness  and  misrule  will  have  again  regained  their 
empire,  and  taken  unto  themselves  seven  spirits  worse,  if  that 
be  possible,  than  the  first.  And  thus  Saturday's  labor  will 
have  been  given  in  vain.  There  is  not  one  servant  in  a  hun- 
dred who  does  not  need  the  watchful  eye  of  a  methodical 
mistress  to  enforce  the  necessity  of  order  and  neatness  in  the 
kitchen.  If  it  is  made  and  furnished  in  the  best  manner,  it 
should  certainly  be  carefully  kept ;  but  if  it  be  small,  incon- 
venient, and  have  a  meagre  supply  of  utensils,  neatness  and 
order  become  an  imperative  necessity. 

Jules  Gouffe,  a  famous  French  cook,  says  :  "  The  more 
inconvenient  a  kitchen  may  be,  the  more  need  for  cleanli- 
ness, carefulness,  and  for  plentiful  and  good  utensils  to  sim- 
plify one's  work.  Cleanliness  !  Cleandiness  !  ŌĆö  the  great 
essential  in  all  cooking  operations  ŌĆö  should,  I  maintain,  at 
the  risk  of  being  thought  over-particular,  be  written  in  large 
capitals  on  the  door  of  every  kitchen,  large  or  small.  A 
kitchen  may  be  small,  badly  arranged  and  lighted,  but  it 
shoiild  never,  on  any  plea,  be  dirty.  Failure  in  cooking  is 
often  attributable  to  want  of  attention  to  cleanliness.  ]*^oth- 
ing  more  than  a  dirty  saucepan  is  often  sufficient  to  spoil  the 


THE   KITCHEN.  69 

effect  of  a  whole  dinner.  All  kitchen  utensils  should  be 
examined  daily.  Saucepans  of  all  kinds  cannot  be  kept  too 
carefully ;  they  should  be  washed,  scoured  with  fine  sand, 
and  wcU  rinsed  each  time  they  are  used.  The  wasliing  of 
many  things  in  the  same  water  should  be  carefully  avoided ; 
the  greasiness  this  engenders  adds  much  to  the  labor  of 
cleaning.  The  brightness  and  cleanliness  of  the  outside  is 
very  commendable ;  but  the  cleanliness  of  the  inside  must 
not  be  sacrificed  to  that." 

"What  would  be  Jules  Gouflfe's  sensations  could  he  look 
into  many  of  our  kitchens  1  What  would  our  good  house- 
keepers themselves  say  ŌĆö  those  of  them  that  are  not  obliged 
to  do  the  cooking  for  their  families  ŌĆö  if  we  should  tell  them 
that  the  pans  in  which  their  bread  is  baked  are  seldom 
washed  out  and  dried,  but  are,  unless  thrown  into  the  closet 
just  as  the  bread  was  taken  from  them,  wiped  with  a  wet, 
greasy  dishcloth,  and  bread  baked  in  them  over  and  over  again, 
day  after  day,  with  no  other  cleansing  1  Said  a  good  lady, 
"  What  is  the  reason  that  the  bottom  crust  of  my  bread  al- 
ways tastes  like  rancid  butter  1 "  Examine  your  bread-pans, 
and  you  will  no  doubt  find  the  reason,  to  your  great  surprise 
and  vexation.  How  often,  think  you,  is  your  molding-board 
set  away  without  being  washed  after  molding  bread  or  roll- 
ing pastry,  and  the  dough  left  to  dry  and  sour  on  it, 
and  the  next .  batch  molded  on  the  same  unwashed  board  ] 
"  That  can't  be  possible.  I  saw  it  hanging  up  in  the  store- 
room over  the  flour-barrel  only  this  morning,  and  it  was 
clean."  Turn  it  over,  under- side  up,  before  you  speak  with 
too  much  certainty.  How  about  the  flour-sieve  1  Is  it  left 
in  the  flour-barrel,  ŌĆö  thrown  in  with  the  sponge,  from  the 
cook's  wet  hands,  upon  it,  or  a  piece  of  unused  pastry  put  in 
it  ]  If  so,  when  the  barrel  of  flour  is  about  half  used,  you  will 
find  that  it  has  suddenly  become  sour. 

Is  it  not  well  to  watch  over  these  things  daily  1 


70      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

XIX. 

HOW  MUCH  IS  A  WIFE  WORTH  ? 

A  FEW  weeks  since,  a  party  sitting  near  us  in  tile  cars 
were  speaking  of  a  young  man,  a  wealthy  farmer, 
Avho  had  just  disturbed  his  friends  by  venturing  to  marry  a 
poor  girl.  We  judged  by  the  conversation  that  he  had  been 
well  educated,  and  for  wealth  and  intelligence  was  quite 
looked  up  to  by  his  townsmen.  But  he  had  married  for 
love,  not  money  or  position,  and  these  friends  were  liberally 
using  friendship's  privilege  to  make  rather  severe  remarks 
about  him  in  his  absence. 

First,  it  was  so  foolish,  after  his  fine  education,  instead  of 
entering  into  one  of  the  "  professions,"  to  return  to  the  home- 
stead, the  quaint  old  farm-house,  and  taking  the  care  of  his 
aged  parents  upon  himself,  settle  down  to  a  farmer's  life. 
/So  foolish  / 

But  that  was  a  trivial  offence  compared  to  taking  a  poor 
girl  for  a  wife,  with  nothing  but  a  common,  practical  educa- 
tion, good  health,  a  loving  heart,  and  willing  hands  to 
recommend  her.  With  his  cultivated  and  refined  tastes, 
what  happiness  could  he  hope  for  in  such  companionship  1 
But  then  he  would  be  a  farmer,  and  perhaps  she  would  be 
all  that  a  farmer's  wife  need  be. 

We  have  often  thought  of  the  tone  of  this  conversation. 
For  what  do  men  generally  marry,  and  what  estimate  do 
they  put  upon  their  wives  1  How  many  really  good  hus- 
bands ever  realize  how  large  a  share  of  the  prosperity  of 
their  home,  its  comforts  and  success,  they  owe  to  their 
Ō¢Āwives.  The  husband  earns  the  money,  it  may  be,  but  does 
he  ever  make  an  estimate,  a  fair  business  estimate  of  what  it 


HOW   MUCH  IS  A  WIFE  WORTH  ]  71 

would  cost,  in  dollars  and  cents,  to  bui/  the  care  and  com- 
forts that  he  receives  througli  his  wife's  labors,  whatever 
may  be  their  standing  in  the  community  1  Particularly  is 
this  a  2:)ertinent  question  in  regard  to  a  farmer's  wife. 

While  this  subject  and  the  conversation  just  alluded  to 
were  fresh  in  mind,  we  chanced  to  pick  up  a  stray  paper 
which  spoke  quite  clearly  on  some  of  the  points  in  question. 
We  sixbjoin  a  few  sentences.  They  may  not  come  exactly 
under  the  head  of  "  talks  with  young  housekeepers,"  but 
they  certainly  belong  to  the  "  Household."  Besides,  while 
Ave  are  on  such  intimate  terms  with  the  wife,  common 
courtesy  demands  that  some  little  attention  should  be  paid 
to  the  husband. 

"  We  will  for  the  present  leave  out  of  sight  all  sentiment, 
all  reference  to  the  little  comforts  and  felicities  that  go  to 
make  up  the  sum  of  domestic  happiness,  and  come  right  to 
the  practical  question,  '  Does  a  young  woman,  who  comes 
to  her  husband  with  little  or  no  dowry,  but  with  willing 
heart  and  hands  and  a  fair  share  of  intelligence,  who  takes 
care  of  him,  of  his  house,  and  of  his  family  as  it  increases, 
often  without  any  hired  help,  really  earn  anything  more 
than  her  board  and  clothing  1 ' 

"  No  man  will  deny  that  a  good  wife  is  a  treasure.  Her 
care  and  labor  certainly  secure  him  many  comforts  ;  but  how 
much  would  he  consider  them  worth  in  dollars  and  cents  1 
It  is  a  great  comfort  to  a  husband  to  have  his  three  meals  a 
day  properly  cooked  and  prepared  at  hours  that  suit  his  con- 
venience. He  can  swallow  a  dinner  in  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes,  that  it  has  taken  most  of  the  wife's  forenoon  to 
prepare.  He  thinks  it  a  good  dinner ;  but  how  high  an 
estimate  think  you  would  he  put  upon  the  labor  of  prepar- 
ing it,  if  required  to  state  the  worth  in  money  1 

"  With  what  astonishment  and  disgust  would  he  look 
upon  his  table  if  set  with  dishes  that  had  not  been  washed 


72      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

since  last  used ;  but  how  high  a  money  value  would  he  be 
willing  to  put  upon  the  one  unromantic  item  of  washing 
dishes,  which,  nevertheless,  takes  so  large  a  share  of  a  woman's 
time? 

"  With  what  satisfaction  he  puts  on  the  clean,  smoothly 
ironed  shirt  and  the  nicely  darned  socks  !  They  do  not 
look  much  like  the  ones  he  pulls  off  to  throw  into  the 
wash.   " 

"  Some  one  had  to  rub  pretty  smartly  to  get  the  dirt  all 
out ;  some  one  strained  over  the  hot  flat-irons  to  make  this 
shirt  so  glossy  ;  some  one  spent  an  hour,  perhaps  while  he 
slept,  to  darn  those  unsightly  holes  in  the  heels  of  these 
stockings.  And  if  a  farmer,  it  was  his  wife  most  probably 
that  did  it  ali ;  and  not  this  one  week  only,  but  every  week, 
as  sure  as  the  week  comes  round.  I^ow,  he  does  appreciate 
cleanliness,  notwithstanding  his  protestations  against  wash- 
ing-days and  house-cleaning ;  but  is  he  willing  to  own  that 
it  is  worth  anything  in  money  if  done  by  his  wife  % 

"  Then  comes  the  case  of  the  milk  and  butter.  Every 
day  it  must  be  attended  to  at  the  proper  time,  the  cream 
churned,  the  butter  made  and  carefully  worked  and  salted. 
He  is  proud  that  his  wife  makes  good  butter,  and  quite 
happy  to  have  customers  tell  him,  '  Your  wife  makes 
better  butter  than  any  one  round  here.'  But  then,  are  not 
the  cows  his  ]  Does  he  not  furnish  the  food  1  does  he  not 
milk  and  take  care  of  them  1  Is  her  part  r^lly  worth  any- 
thing in  dollars  and  cents  ?  y 

"  Then,  again,  her  energies  are  taxed  early  and  late  in  the 
care  of  the  children.  She  is,  of  course,  an  interested  party 
here  ;  but  then  she  don't  pretend  to  own  but  half  a  share. 
Is  it  really  worth  nothing  to  soothe,  amuse,  correct,  teach, 
and  watch  over  his  half  of  the  little  folks  as  well  as  her 
own  1  This  is  real  brain-work.  Where  is  the  man  who  will 
say  that  this  care  for  their  children  does  not  require  aU  a 


HOW   MUCH   IS   A  WIFE  WORTH  l  73 

woman's  wit  and  wisdom  1  But  if  asked  to  place  a  pecuiiiitry 
value  upon  this  part  of  a  wife's  and  mother's  care  and  lab-r, 
to  how  high  a  figure,  think  you,  it  would  mount '? 

"  A  farmer's  wife,  who  really  does  her  own  work,  or  faith- 
fully oversees  its  being  done,  which  is  by  far  the  most  try- 
ing part,  has  no  easy  task  ;  but  we  would  ask  for  her  only 
what  is  justly  her  due.  If  there  is  any  standard  by  which 
her  services  can  be  rightly  estimated,  we  would  like  to  know 
it.  We  wish  to  know  whether  there  be  any  surplus  in  her 
favor ;  whether,  when  she  asks  for  a  few  dollars  for  some 
purpose  not  strictly  necessary  (a  book,  for  instance),  she 
ought  to  feel  that  she  is  asking  for  her  husband's  hard- 
earned  means,  or  whether  she  has  a  right  to  feel  that  it  is 
her  due  "i  How  much  must  a  wife  credit  to  her  husband's 
generosity  ;  how  much  use  with  a  free  conscience  as  her  own 
faithfully  earned  portion  of  their  joint  labors  1 " 

Young  men  will  do  wisely  to  give  this  matter  a  serious 
thought,  lest  they  make  the  mistake  of  taking  a  wife's  labor 
and  attentions  as  a  matter  of  course,  as  a  right,  instead  of 
feeling  that  in  taking  his  name,  his  wife  claims,  not  only  an 
equal  right  to  his  cares  and  labors,  joys  and  sorrows,  but 
also  an  equal  right  to  a  proper  use  of  the  money  which  she 
has  done  her  part  to  earn  or  to  save.  A  Avife,  a  farmer's 
wife  particularly,  has  too  much  toil  and  perpetual  watchful- 
ness to  make  her  life  desirable,  if  with  it  all  she  is  to  be  con- 
sidered a  beggar,  a  recipient  of  charity,  instead  of  a  joint 
partner  with  her  husband  in  all  that  he  has. 


74      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

XX. 

TEACH  LITTLE  BOYS  TO  BE  USEFUL. 

HOW  often,  when  anything  has  been  said  of  teaching 
little  boys  to  be  useful,  have  we  heard  mothers  ex- 
claim, "  What  an  idea  !  Teach  hoys  to  be  useful !  I  wish 
you  would  tell  me  how ;  for  of  all  the  restless,  awkward,  mis- 
chievous, troublesome  comforts  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  I  do 
think  boys  are  the  most  trying.  I  am  sure  I  love  my  boys 
just  as  much  as  I  do  my  girls ;  but  it  is  so  much  harder  to 
manage  them,  to  keep  them  out  of  mischief,  to  know  what  to 
do  "with  them.  They  were  vexatious  enough  when  we  were 
boarding  ;  but  now,  when,  with  four  children  on  my  hands, 
I  am  but  just  entering  upon  my  novitiate  as  a  housekeeper, 
feeling  my  way  step  by  step,  they  fret  me  wofully.  They 
are  under  my  feet  all  the  time.  Too  young  to  be  sent  to 
school  more  than  a  few  hours  a  day,  or  to  be  turned  out  un- 
attended, to  play  with  chance  companions,  they  hang  about 
me,  uneasy,  restless,  fractious,  teasing  for  something  con- 
tinually. I  often  think  it  would  be  a  comfort  could  we  put 
them  on  a  shelf  to  sleep  through  the  unquiet,  turbulent 
period  of  childhood,  to  wake  up  full-grown  men.  My  httle 
girls  can  always  find  something  to  do,  but  the  boys  ŌĆö  make 
hoys  tiseful,  indeed!  It  would  be  a  true  benefactor  who 
could  teach  mothers  how  to  accomplish  such  a  marvellous 
thing  !  " 

Well,  I  notice  that  you  very  wisely  and  skillfully  com- 
bine instruction  with  amusement  in  your  management  of 
your  little  girls.  I  watched  with  much  interest  how  pleas- 
antly you  were  teaching  them  to  be  useful,  Avhile  they  found 
work  to  be  only  amusement.     "  I  wonder  which  of  these 


TEACH  LITTLE   BOYS  TO  BE   USEFUL.  75 

little  girls  would  like  to  run  and  bring  mamma  a  few  apples  "  ; 
and  away,  in  great  glee,  trotted  little  three-year-old  Kitty, 
with,  her  little  basket. 

"Would  Mary  like  to  help  mamma  pare  this  nice  red 
apple  ?  Which,  think  you,  can  make  the  largest  paring  with- 
out lireaking  1 "  How  happy  the  little  lady  was  to  leave  her 
play  and  make  the  trial  !  Why  not  make  the  same  efibrt  to 
amuse  and  instruct  your  little  boys  1 

"  Would  you  have  me  teach  them  to  set  the  table,  wash 
dishes,  sew,  or  try  to  work  1 " 

Do  you  not  believe  they  can  be  taught  all  this  as  easily 
as  girls  1  We  hold  that,  in  a  large  family,  each  one,  boy  or 
girl,  should  be  taught  to  be  useful ;  to  help  their  mother  in- 
doors and  out,  and,  above  all,  learn  to  help  themselves.  This 
they  cannot  do  if  allowed  to  be  idle. 

In  the  city,  and  in  families  that  depend  entirely  on  hired 
help,  it  is  more  difficult  to  train  children  to  be  industri- 
ous and  useful.  It  is  not  well  to  let  the  young,  imitative 
little  ones  be  much  with  servants,  certainly  not  unless  the 
mother  is  there  also ;  and  all  instructions  of  a  practical  na- 
ture should  be  given  by  her,  and  practised  under  her  eye. 
Wealth  is  by  no  means  to  be  despised ;  but  when  it  is  so 
employed  as  to  remove  all  labor  from  us,  or  to  so  free  us  from 
care  that  we  do  not  teach  our  children  how  to  make  them- 
selves serviceable,  it  is  no  blessing,  and  may  become  a  curse. 
Those  who  have  begun  life  poor,  and  worked  their  way  to 
wealth  by  real  hard  labor,  forget,  when  their  children  start 
up  around  them,  how  much  true,  solid  pleasure  was  in  their 
struggle  for  this  well-earned  prosperity,  and  as  they  relax 
their  exertions  and  begin  to  feel  the  enervating  effects  of 
wealth,  they  remember  only  the  hardship,  forgetting  the 
pleasure.  Because  there  is  now  no  absolute  necessity  for  it, 
they  shrink  from  permitting  their  children  to  follow  in  their 
early  footsteps,  and  so  cheat  them  out  of  the  strength  and 


76      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

independence  for  which  no  amount  of  gold  can  in  any  way 
compensate. 

But  we  are  neglecting  the  boys.  "We  will  give  you  an 
example  which  will  explain  somewhat  our  idea  of  making 
children  useful,  boys  and  girls  alike. 

We  remember  a  large  family,  in  which  there  were  seven 
boys.  They  were  not  driven  to  work,  but  from  their  earliest 
childhood  were,  little  by  little,  trained  to  understand  and 
do  all  kinds  of  outdoor  work  pertaining  to  a  large  farm  ;  but 
it  was  also  understood  that  they  were  to  lend  a  helping  hand 
indoors  whenever  the  mother  or  sisters  needed  them.  They 
knew  they  would  only  be  called  in  when  it  was  quite  neces- 
sary, but  very  early  recognized  the  importance  of  knowing 
how  to  do  anything  that  came  before  them.  If  the  mother 
or  sistera  were  sick  or  absent,  they  could  so  far  fill  up  the 
gap  as  to  keep  things  comfortable  till  health  was  restored. 
They  could  dress. the  youngest,  make  a  bed,  sweep  a  room, 
make  a  cup  of  tea  or  coffee,  broil  a  steak,  or  wash  the  dishes 
in  a  very  satisfactory  manner. 

When  quite  little,  not  old  enough  to  undertake  heavy  or 
rough  work,  they  were  allowed  any  amount  of  play,  but  it 
was  expected  that  all  but  the  baby  must  do  something  use- 
ful, something  that  was  worh,  in  the  course  of  each  day.  So, 
little  by  little,  as  they  trotted  about  after  mother,  they  gath- 
ered up  many  things  which,  in  mature  life,  were  of  great  value. 

The  family  lived  some  miles  from  church,  and  as  it  was 
customary  to  have  preaching  in  both  morning  and  afternoon, 
with  Sabbath-school  between  services,  they  took  a  slight 
lunch  of  crackers  or  gingerbread,  stayed  through  all,  and 
returned  in  season  for  a  late  dinner  and  tea  united.  IS'ow  it 
was  a  settled  rule  that  the  parents  and  part  of  the  children 
should  go  to  church  every  Sunday,  rain  or  shine ;  and  the 
oldest  children,  boys  and  girls,  took  turns  in  staying  at  home 
to  get  dinner  and  take  care  of  the  baby. 


TEACH   LITTLE  BOYS  TO   BE   USEFUL.  77 

They  all  took  great  pride  in  having  everything  in  order, 
and  a  good  dinner  all  ready,  when  the  church-goers  returned  ; 
and  the  boys'  housekeeping  was  as  creditable  as  the  girls'. 
None  felt  it  to  be  a  hardship ;  on  the  contrary,  those  who 
were  too  young  to  be  left  in  charge  looked  forward  with 
great  anxiety  to  the  time  when  they  should  be  allowed  to 
"take  their  turn"  with  the  older  and  more  favored  ones. 

When  these  boys  left  home  for  school  or  college,  a  box, 
with  scissors,  needles,  thread,  and  buttons,  was  always  placed 
in  each  trunk  ;  and  the  lost  buttons  were  replaced  and  the 
ever-recurring  rents  repaired  by  their  own  hands  ;  and  with 
the  stitches  went  many  thanks  daily  to  the  wise  mother 
who  had  taught  them  to  take  care  of  themselves,  as  Avell  as 
be  helpful  to  others. 

Now,  my  dear  young  housekeeper  and  anxious  mother, 
do  you  not  think  your  little  sons  would  be  less  restless  and 
fretful,  and  far  more  happy,  if  you  allowed  them  to  "  make 
b'lieve  "  that  they  were  a  most  important  help  to  you,  un- 
til, by  a  little  patience  and  indidgence,  you  succeeded  in 
making  the  imaginary  help  a  reality,  which  would  repay  you 
in  later  years  /or  all  the  slight  inconvenience  and  annoyance 
you  experienced  in  teaching  them,  and  insure  comfort  and  in- 
dependence to  your  sons,  under  whatever  circumstances  they 
might  be  placed. 


78      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

XXI. 

BLEACHING,  STARCHING,  AND  REMOVING  STAINS. 

A  YOUNG  housekeeper  writes  us  :  "  Without  the  least 
knowledge  of  domestic  concerns,  I  passed  from  the 
school-room  into  the  position  of  a  farmer's  wife.  Together 
with  other  things  of  which  I  am  ignorant,  I  need  some  minute 
directions  for  starching,  ironing,  removing  stains,  etc.  Any 
hints  on  these  points  would  he  very  acceptable  to  me,  and  I 
douht  not  to  many  others.  I  can  now  succeed  very  weU  in 
managing  the  cooking  and  butter-making,  but  am  sorely  tried 
about  my  washing  and  ironing  sometimes.  With  cooking 
and  butter-making,  my  sewing  and  babies,  I  have  enough  to 
do,  and  feel  like  evading  the  care  or  oversight  of  the  wash- 
ing and  ironing,  but  cannot.  There  are  so  many  kinds  of 
stains,  ŌĆö  fruit,  tea,  and  grass  stains.  Then  if  the  girl  suc- 
ceeds in  doing  the  washing  pretty  well,  she  makes  such 
work  with  the  starching,  and  smuts  the  clothes  so  badly  in 
ironing,  that  I  am  much  troubled.  Whether  not  particular 
enough  in  cooking  or  straining  the  starch,  I  don't  know." 

We  judge  from  this  letter  that  our  friend  is  obliged  to 
depend  on  "  hired  help  "  for  her  washing  and  ironing.  We 
think  we  can  show  her  how  to  succeed  as  weU  in  this  de- 
partment as  she  seems  to  have  done  in  cooking  and  butter- 
making  ;  but  whether  she  can  manage  to  secure  the  observance 
of  our  directions  by  the  girl  in  the  laundry,  is  another  and 
very  doubtful  question.  One  of  the  hardest  of  the  house- 
keeper's trials  with  the  servants  of  the  present  day  is  their 
unwillingness  to  receive  any  directions  or  counsels  about  the 
mode  of  doing  their  work ;  yet  they  seem  utterly  without 
any  capacity  to  plan  or  arrange  their  labor  for  themselves,  so 


BLEACHING,   STARCHING,   AND   REMOVING  STAINS.      79 

that  it  may  l^e  performed  in  the  best  and  easiest  manner. 
They  will  be  an  hour  in  doing  that  which  with  a  little 
forethought  or  method  could  have  been  done  in  one  third 
of  the  time,  and  in  no  one  item  of  household  labor  do 
they  manifest  their  total  want  of  system  so  strikingly  as 
in  the  laundry ;  yet  they  will  not  be  taught  a  more  excel- 
lent way. 

With  regard  to  stains,  which  are  a  grief  of  heart  to  all 
good  housekeepers,  it  is  much  surer  and  less  troublesome  to 
remove  them  when  fresh  ;  and  the  eye  of  the  mistress  must 
watch  over  tliis,  or  they  will  be  left  to  dry,  and  most  likely 
be  overlooked  when  the  washing  is  done. 

Most,  if  not  all,  fruit  stains  can  be  taken  out  if  stretched 
over  a  dish  or  pail,  and  hoiling  water  slowly  poured  over 
them.  If  the  stains  have  not  been  allowed  to  dry  long,  this 
will  speedily  remove  them.  But  if  they  have,  unfortunately, 
been  put  into  the  wash,  the  soapsuds  will  ''  set  "  the  stains, 
and  then,  when  discovered,  they  should  be  dipped  in  "  Ja- 
velle  water  "  or  "  bleaching  fluid."  They  should  remain  in 
this  but  a  few  moments,  then  be  well  rubbed  and  put  at 
once  into  the  boiler,  and,  as  a  general  thing,  when  the  article 
is  taken  from  the  boiler  to  rinse,  the  stain  will  have  disap- 
peared. If  the  stains  from  tea  or  grass  are  fresh,  "  Javelle 
water,"  or  a  little  ammonia,  will  easily  remove  them  ;  but 
in  either  case,  if  done  before  the  regular  washing,  the  article 
should  be  well  washed  and  spread  on  the  grass  to  bleach 
and  dry.  Stains  that  have  been  long  dried,  or  washed 
and  boiled  in  before  they  were  noticed,  are  much  more 
difficult  to  remove.  Ink  stains  can  be  taken  out  of  linen 
as  follows  :  ŌĆö 

Wash  the  spot  in  salt  and  water  as  soon  after  the  ink  is 
on  as  you  can,  taking  care  that  it  is  not  put  into  suds  before 
it  has  been  well  washed  in  the  salt  and  water,  and  then 
sponged  with  lemon  juice,  else  the  soap  will  instantly  "  set  " 


80      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

the  color,  making  it  almost  impossible  ever  to  remoye  the 
ink. 

When  ink  is  spilled  on  the  carpet  or  on  woolen  goods,  if 
attended  to  instantly  after  the  accident,  it  can  be  taken  out 
entirely  by  sweet  millc.  First,  wipe  off  carefully  all  that 
can  be  soaked  up  by  a  handful  of  cotton  batting.  Then 
have  a  dish  of  sweet  milk  ready,  and  dipping  the  clean  cot- 
ton batting  in  it,  wash  the  spot,  changing  the  batting  for  a 
clean  piece  as  soon  as  it  gets  black  with  the  ink  ;  and  also  get 
clean  milk,  when  the  first  becomes  discolored.  Continue 
this  till  the  ink  no  longer  shows ;  then  take  a  pail  of  hot 
suds  and  a  clean  cloth,  and  wash  as  far  as  the  milk  has  Avet ; 
rinse  with  clean  warm  water,  and  rub  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 
"We  have  never  known  this  to  fail. 

Ink  spots,  paint,  or  grease  can  be  removed  from  clothing 
by  mixing  four  tablespoonfuls  of  spirits  of  hartshorn,  the 
same  quantity  of  alcohol,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  table 
salt.  Mix  it  well  and  apply  with  a  sponge  or  brush.  Wash 
off  with  clear  alcohol. 

To  remove  ink  stains  from  colored  articles,  drop  hot  tallow 
on  the  spot ;  then  soak  and  rub  it  with  boiling  milk.  This 
will  be  found  effectual.  Of  course,  the  tallow  and  milk 
must  be  afterward  washed  off,  either  with  soapsuds  or  alco- 
hol, else  a  grease  spot  will  be  left. 

Your  oil-cloth  should  never  be  scrubbed  with  a  brush,  and 
on  no  account  nse  soapsuds  or  hot  water.  It  has  a  bad 
effect  on  the  paint,  and  the  cloth  will  not  last  as  long. 
After  sweeping,  wash  with  soft  flannel  and  lukewarm  or 
cold  water.  Let  the  oil-cloth  get  thoroughly  dry ;  then  pre- 
pare a  small  bit  of  bees-wax,  softened  with  a  little  turpen- 
tine, and  rub  the  cloth  well  with  this  preparation,  using  for 
that  purpose  a  soft  furniture  polishing-brush.  This  need 
not  be  done  every  week,  but  whenever  the  oil-cloth  grows 
dingy.     Cared  for  in  this  way,  it  will  last  twice  as  long  as 


BLEACHING,   STARCHING,   AND   REMOVING   STAINS.      81 

with  the  ordinary  scrubbing,  and  always  look  fresh  and 
new. 

A  less  troublesome  way,  but  not  quite  so  effective,  is  to 
wash  the  oil-cloth,  after  sweeping  and  washing  with  flannel 
and  warm  water,  with  sweet  skim-milk,  and  then  rub  very 
dry  with  a  clean  dry  cloth.  Wipe  straight  one  way  of  the 
cloth,  not  round  and  round,  as  that  will  give  a  cloudy,  un- 
pleasant look  to  the  cloth. 

When  clothes  have  become  yellow  or  of  a  bad  color  from 
poor  washing  or  from  lying  unused  some  time,  it  is  well  to 
take  them,  after  boiling,  from  the  first  suds  and  spread  on 
the  grass  to  bleach,  Avhile  another  boilerful  is  being  washed. 
When  the  second  is  put  on  to  boil,  take  up  those  that  have 
been  bleaching  on  the  grass  and  rinse  faithfully  through  two 
generous  rinsing  waters  ;  the  last  water  to  be  blued.  Then 
pass  through  the  wringer,  starching  such  as  need  it  in  hot 
starch,  unless  you  prefer  to  wait  till  ycu  fold  them,  and 
hang  up  to  dry.  Then  take  the  second  lot  from  the  boiler, 
and  leave  on  the  grass  to  bleach,  while  you  get  the  coarser 
articles  washed  and  on  to  boil.  This  done,  take  up  the  sec- 
ond, rinse  and  hang  out,  and  so  on  till  all  the  white  clothes 
are  on  the  line. 

Most  servants  object  to  the  bleaching,  and  they  wash  all 
the  white  clothes  and  leave  them  wrung  out  in  piles  in  the 
baskets  till  all  are  washed,  before  they  hang  up  anything. 
This  is  poor  work.  The  clothes  become  yellow  and  streaked 
by  lying  in  coils  as  they  come  from  the  wringer,  and  under 
such  management  it  is  impossible  to  make  them  look  clear 
and  white.  The  sooner  they  are  on  the  line  after  passing 
through  the  last  rinsing,  the  clearer  the  clothes  will  be,  and 
if  well  snapped  as  they  are  hung  up,  and  pulled  straight  and 
evenly  on  the  line,  .one  finds  compensation  for  the  little  extra 
trouble  ŌĆö  and  it  is  very  little  ŌĆö  in  the  greater  ease  with 
which  they  can  be  folded  and  ironed. 


82      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

It  is  "well  to  bloach  clothes  while  washing,  all  through  the 
pleasant  weeks  of  spring,  sumnicr,  and  fall,  as  it  can  be  so 
much  better  done  than  in  winter.  One  hour  on  the  clean 
grass  before  rinsing  is  long  enough.  It  is  not  well  to  leave 
clothes  out  overnight  when  it  can  be  helped,  as  they  are 
liable  to  be  trampled  over  by  cats  and  dogs  during  the  niglit, 
or  be  spotted  by  the  drip  of  the  dew  or  fogs  from  the  trees 
or  vines. 

For  blueing  there  is  nothing  better  than  the  "  [N^uremberg 
Ultramarine  Blue,"  which  comes  in  pretty  little  balls  about 
the  size  of  a  small  cherry,  at  from  fifty  to  seventy-five  cents 
a  box.  One  box  with  care,  in  a  medium-sized  family,  will 
last  several  months.  The  balls  must  be  tied  into  a  blueing- 
bag,  and  used  like  common  blueing. 

A  large  fire-proof  earthen  saucepan  or  one  of  the  yeUow- 
ware  pipkins  is  better  than  tin  or  iron  to  make  starch  in  ; 
but  if  these  are  not  to  be  found,  a  tin  kettle  will  do  very 
well,  if  kept  bright  and  clean,  and  never  used  for  any  other 
purpose.  "Wlien  cooking  it  should  be  carefully  attended  to, 
and  then  there  is  no  danger  of  its  scorching. 

Two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  starch  for  each  shirt,  a  saltspoon- 
fid  of  salt,  a  piece  of  sperm  or  wliite  Avax  as  large  as  a  pea, 
or,  if  these  are  not  to  be  had,  that  much  lard  or  butter,  is 
a  good  rule.  Use  enough  cold  water  to  wet  the  starch,  so 
that  it  can  be  stirred  free  from  lumps  and  beaten  perfectly 
smooth,  then  pour  on  boiling  water.  It  is  not  easy  to  give 
the  quantity  of  water  to  this  amount  of  starch,  as  the  tastes 
vary  in  regard  to  the  stiffness  of  collars  and  bosoms.  The 
starch  must  be  stirred  often,  and  boil  slowly  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes.  Skim  and  strain  while  hot  into  a  large 
wooden  boAvl  or  earthen  dish  ;  keep  a  bag  for  straining  starch, 
which  should  never  be  used  for  anything  else  ;  but  it  is  safe 
to  keep  close  watch,  or  towels,  napkins,  etc.,  will  be  used  for 
this  purpose  instead  of  the  bag.    It  is  not  long  since  we  found 


BLEACHING,   STARCHING,   AND  REMOVING  STAINS.      83 

one  recommended  as  a  splendid  laundress  straining  starch 
through  a  shirt-sleeve,  wliich  was  tied  about  tlio  wrist  with  a 
fine  handkerchief.  A  good  starch-bag  was  hanging  not  six 
feet  off.     "  JS^ever  mind,  my  hidy,  I  '11  wash  it  all  out." 

If  you  prefer  to  starch  after  the  clothes  are  dried,  wet  the 
bosoms,  collars,  and  wristbands  in  hot  water,  wring  very  dry, 
and  starch  wliile  the  cloth  is  yet  warm.  Eub  the  starch  in 
faithfully,  Avring  in  a  dry  towel  to  remove  all  starch  that  may 
adliere  to  the  outside,  spread  the  garments  out  evenly,  rub 
with  a  dry  cloth,  roll  up  tightly,  and  let  them  remain  two  or 
three  hours  before  ironing. 

In  cold  weather  it  is  safe  to  dampen  and  fold  clothes  at 
night,  and  then  it  is  desirable  to  have  the  starched  clothes 
ironed  first.  In  warm  weather  starched  clothes  should  never 
be  dampened  or  folded  till  morning,  as  there  is  danger  of  the 
starch  becoming  sour  and  mildewing ;  and  unless  there  is  a 
cool,  airy  room  to  leave  them  in,  it  is  not  safe  to  sprinkle  and 
fold  anything,  for  they  may  mildew  in  a  warm  room  in  a 
night. 

If  any  article  needs  mending,  it  is  well  to  do  it  before  iron- 
ing. "When  ironed,  fold  and  press  each  article  neatly,  and 
hang  evenly  on  the  clothes-bars,  leaving  them  there  till  jDer- 
fectly  dry.  Fold  shirts  so  that  the  bosoms  will  not  be  bent 
in  the  drawer.  Collars  should  be  kejjt  in  round  boxes.  La- 
dies' undergarments  should  be  folded  so  as  to  bring  the  sleeves 
and  necks  outside.  It  is  no  more  trouble,  and  it  certainly  is 
pleasant  to  have  a  drawer  look  neat  and  attractive  when  one 
opens  it.  It  is  what  a  good  old  grandmother  used  to  call 
sort  o'  restful  to  look  at.  Skirts  should  be  made  not  much 
stilfer  than  new  cotton.  The  noise  of  a  very  stiff  skirt  when 
one  is  walking  is  not  the  pleasantest  music.  They  should  be 
either  hung  up  in  a  deep  wardrobe  or  folded  together  lightly 
and  laid  on  a  broad  shelf.  ŌĆó 


84      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 


XXII. 

TO  IRON  SHIRTS,  VESTS,  AND  EMBROIDERIES. 

SHIETS  cannot  be  ironed  with  ease  and  ironed  -well 
without  a  bosom-board.  It  should  be  made  of  pine, 
well  seasoned  and  entirely  free  from  gum  ;  one  and  a  half 
inches  thick,  one  foot  nine  inches  long,  and  eighteen  inches 
wide  ;  very  smooth  and  straight ;  rounded  on  one  end,  and 
rubbed  with  sand-paper  to  remove  all  roughness.  The  square 
end  must  also  be  smooth,  and  with  a  hole  in  the  middle  near 
the  edge,  to  hang  it  up  by.  Take  two  or  tliree  thicknesses 
of  an  old  woolen  blanket  and  cover  one  side.  Stretch  it 
very  smooth  and  tight,  and  fasten  to  the  board  with  tacks. 
Use  the  galvanized  tacks,  so  that  the  clothes  will  not  be 
iron-rusted  by  coming  in  contact  with  them.  When  tacking 
on  the  last  side,  be  sure  and  draw  both  thicknesses  of 
blanket  very  tight,  so  that  there  may  be  no  wrinkles.  Over 
the  blanket  tack  two  thicknesses  of  Canton  flannel,  the 
fleecy  side  up.  Bring  the  edges  of  both  blanket  and  cotton 
over  the  sides,  so  that  when  nailed  you  can  cut  them  even 
with  the  other  side  of  the  board.  Then  turn  it  over  and 
cover  the  other  side  with  thick  flour  paste,  and  stretch  over 
it  a  piece  of  Canton  flannel ;  when  this  is  quite  dry,  paste 
on  another,  and  so  on,  as  each  becomes  perfectly  dry,  till 
you  have  four  thicknesses  of  Canton  flannel  pasted  together 
on  the  board ;  the  last  one  being  trimmed  so  as  to  lap  over 
and  be  tacked  on  to  the  side  of  the  board,  thus  making  a 
neat  finish  and  covering  up  aU  rough  edges.  The  soft  side  is 
to  iron  embroidery,  Marseilles  vests,  and  other  figured  arti- 
cles on ;  the  hard  side  to  be  used  in  giving  a  polish  to  shirt- 
bosoms,  collars,  etc. 


TO   IRON  SHIRTS,    VESTS,   AND   EMBROIDERIES.  85 

The  bosom-board  being  thus  prepared,  make  cotton  covers 
to  slip  over  all,  fitting  as  tightly  to  the  board  as  they  can 
and  yet  allow  of  its  being  readily  removed  without  tearing. 
Be  careful  to  have  these  covers  changed  after  each  week's 
use. 

A  skirt-board  should  also  be  kept  in  every  house  to  iron 
skirts  and  dresses.  This  must  be  six  feet  long,  eighteen 
inches  wide  at  the  bottom,  one  third  narrower  at  the  top, 
and  one  and  a  half  inches  thick.  The  top  should  be 
rounded.  Cover  one  side  with  two  or  three  thicknesses 
of  an  old  blanket,  as  directed  for  the  soft  side  of  the  bosom- 
board  ;  tack  on  smoothly ;  cover  the  other  side  with  coarse 
cotton,  and  nail  over  on  to  the  edge  of  the  board,  so  as  to 
cover  the  raw  edges  of  the  blanket.  Have  cotton  cases  also 
made  for  the  skirt-boards,  to  be  changed  and  washed  with 
each  week's  use. 

Covers  for  the  holders  will  also  pay  for  the  trouble  of 
making  them,  as  they  insure,  as  far  as  possible,  against 
smut  on  the  clothes  when  ironing.  But  to  make  this 
pay,  the  housekeeper  must  be  put  to  the  slight  inconven- 
ience of  seeing  herself  that  these  covers  are  changed,  and 
folloAv  up  this  care  by  promptly  demanding  them,  when  each 
fresh  washing  comes  up,  to  be  put  away  with  the  other  clean 
things. 

The  ironing-table  should  be  covered  Avith  a  thick  blanket, 
doubled,  and  that  with  a  cotton  sheet.  A  coarse,  thick,  gray 
or  white  blanket,  like  an  "  army  blanket,"  may  be  bought 
quite  cheap  ;  they  come  on  purpose  for  "  ironing-blankets," 
and  answer  just  as  well  as  a  better  quality. 

Flat-irons  should  be  carefully  kept  from  dampness,  which 
soon  rusts  them.  Leave  them  standing  on  the  end ;  they 
soon  spoil  if  set  on  the  face.  If  they  become  rusty,  scour 
with  emery  till  quite  smooth,  or,  if  past  your  skill,  send  to 
an  emery  factory  and  have  them  ground  smooth.     Keep  a 


86      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS, 

piece  of  yellow  bees-wax,  wrapped  in  a  cloth  in  the  drawer 
of  your  ironing-table,  to  rub  the  irons  on  in  case  they  get 
coated  with  starch.  Have  a  clean  cloth  at  hand  to  wipe 
them  on  before  using,  each  time  you  take  a  fresh  one  from 
the  stove. 

Having  our  ironing-table,  bosom-board,  and  other  imple- 
ments now  all  ready,  we  will  attend  to  the  ironing. 

A  perfectly  clean  sheet  must  be  spread  over  the  other 
ironing-sheet  before  commencing  to  iron  the  starched  clothes. 
In  ironing  a  shirt,  begin  with  the  binding  at  the  neck ;  then 
fold  the  back  in  the  middle  and  iron ;  then  iron  the  sleeves, 
and  wristbands,  if  there  are  wristbands  on  the  shirt ;  fold 
the  sleeve  in  neat  plaits  and  press  them  hard  after  ironing ; 
then  iron  the  plain  part  of  the  shirt  and  the  collar,  if  on 
the  shirt,  ironing  the  bosom  last.  Iron  the  bosom  and  coUar 
on  the  bosom-board;  rub  the  bosom  over  lightly  with  a 
damp  cloth,  and  iron  hard  and  quickly  with  a  polishing-iron. 
If  you  have  none,  you  should  get  one  if  possible.  They 
are  found  at  all  hardware  stores.  They  are  rounded  instead 
of  being  fiat,  hke  other  irons,  without  an  edge,  and  very 
smooth,  so  that  no  mark  of  the  iron  is  left  on  the  article 
ironed.  This  iron  is  very  convenient  to  use  for  caps,  vests, 
and  many  small  things. 

In  ironing  a  shirt-collar,  pass  the  iron  rapidly  over  the 
wrong  side,  then  iron  the  band,  lastly  the  right  side  of  the 
collar,  which  should  be  well  polished,  and  ironed  till  perfectly, 
dry. 

Gentlemen's  linen  or  duck  pants  should  be  ironed  on  a 
pants-board,  prepared  like  the  soft  side  of  a  bosom-board,  and 
as  nearly  the  full  length  as  possible.  The  pockets  must  be 
turned  outside  before  ironing,  that  they  may  leave  no  crease 
on  the  pants.  Hang  pants  to  air  by  the  straps  or  the  waist- 
bands. 

In  ironing  a  skirt,  slip  the  skirt-board  through  by  the 


TO   IRON  SHIRTS,   VESTS,   AND  EMBROIDERIES.  87 

round  end.  Have  a  clothes-basket  or  clean  sheet  on  the 
floor  under  the  skirt-board,  so  that  the  skirt  may  fall  on  it 
as  you  iron. 

Have  a  large  piece  of  mosquito  net  over  the  clothes-bars 
to  protect  the  articles  already  ironed  from  flies,  dust,  etc. 

Cake-napkins,  doilies,  or  towels  that  are  fringed,  must  be 
well  snapped  while  damp,  to  leave  the  fringe  smooth  and 
untangled.  Some  use  a  fringe-comb.  This  is  very  well 
occasionally,  but  we  think,  if  often  used,  it  tears  the  fringe, 
and  soon  gives  a  thin,  worn-out,  ragged  look  to  the  article. 

Muslin  dresses  need  to  be  about  as  stiff  as  new  muslin, 
the  starch  being  strained  into  the  last  rinsing  water.  "White 
gum-arabic  added  to  the  starch  is  very  nice  for  muslin 
dresses  ;  they  iron  easier,  and  look  newer.  Dark  muslins 
must  be  starched  in  rice-water  or  gum-arabic,  as  common 
starch  leaves  white  patches  over  the  dark  color  after  ironing. 
Iron,  as  far  as  possible,  on  the  wrong  side. 

To  make  good  rice-starch,  boil  a  pound  of  rice  in  four  or 
five  quarts  of  water ;  let  it  boil  untd.  perfectly  soft,  adding 
boiling  water  as  fast  as  it  boils  out,  so  as  to  keep  up  the 
same  quantity  of  water  all  the  time  ;  stir  frequently  and 
break  it  up  as  much  as  possible  whde  boiling.  When  the 
rice  is  as  soft  as  it  will  boil,  pour  the  whole  into  a  gallon  of 
water  and  strain  through  a  thick  cloth.  It  is  said  that  eighty 
drops  of  elixir  of  vitriol  put  into  three  gallons  of  clear  spring 
water  and  one  of  rice-water,  thus  prepared,  is  excellent  to  set 
the  color.  We  have  never  tried  it.  Ox  gall  we  knoiv  is  good 
to  fix  the  color  in  calico  or  muslin,  as  well  as  to  cleanse 
grease  and  dirt  from  woolens.  There  is  nothing  better  to 
clean  broadcloths,  coats,  vests,  and  pants.  Get  the  butcher 
to  fill  a  bottle  with  the  gall,  and  put  four  or  five  spoonfuls 
into  about  three  quarts  of  hot  soapsuds,  and  sponge  the 
garments  with  it,  carefully  rubbing  every  sjiot.  When  dirt 
and  spots  are  removed,  sponge  in  clear  hot  water,  and  hang 


88      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS, 

the  garment  up  by  seams  of  the  arm-holes  of  coats  and  vests, 
and  waistbands  of  pants,  where  they  will  dry  quickly. 
Press  on  the  wrong  side  when  about  half  dry.  Woolen 
dresses  may  be  cleaned  in  the  same  manner. 


XXIII. 
A   TALK   ABOUT   BEDS. 

AS  we  look  around  silently  among  the  many  young 
housekeepers,  we  think  we  hear  some  of  them  say, 
or,  if  they  don't,  they  ought  to,  "I  am  ashamed  to  ask  any 
one  into  my  chambers,  for  my  beds  are  a  perpetual  vexation 
to  me.  They  look  as  if  tossed  up  by  a  whirlwind ;  the  mat- 
tress laid  on  unevenly,  every  inequality  as  visible  as  if  the 
occupants  had  just  risen.  The  sheets  and  blankets  never  find 
their  proper  place,  and  the  pillows  are  as  hard  and  knotty  as 
if  made  of  cotton  batting.  I  try  to  teach  my  girl  how  to  do 
the  work  properly,  but  unfortunately  am  too  ignorant  myself 
to  speak  with  authority,  and  I  have  no  doubt  she  is  aware  of 
my  deficiencies,  so  my  words  are  idle  breath  to  her." 

If  you  don't  know  how  to  tell  a  girl,  go  to  the  rooms  with 
her  and  show  her  how  you  wish  the  work  done.  That  will 
be  the  easiest  mode  for  you,  and  more  likely  to  be  remem- 
bered by  the  pupil. 

*'  Alas  !  I  don't  know  how  to  make  a  bed  neatly  myself. 
I  never  attempted  it  in  my  life,  until  I  was  married.  Ah  ! 
if  I  ever  have  daughters,  they  shall  be  taught  how  to  care 
for  their  own  rooms,  and  make  their  own  beds  neatly,  how- 
ever rich  we  may  become,  or  however  many  servants  we  may 
employ." 

That  is  wise  and  right.     Though  riches  may  relieve  one 


A  TALK   ABOUT   BEDS.  89 

of  much  hard  labor,  they  should  not  enervate,  or  incapacitate 
for  such  an  amount  of  exercise  as  is  necessary  to  secure  a 
vigorous  muscular  development,  and  also  enable  one,  in  an 
emergency,  to  step  in  and  perform  with  ease  and  indepen- 
dence whatever  there  is  to  be  done.  Riches  cannot  insure 
us  against  a  "  hitch "  in  the  domestic  machinery  now  and 
then,  and  every  girl  should  be  so  taught  that,  in  her  father's 
house  or  in  her  own,  she  can  bring  "  order  out  of  confusion  " 
by  an  independent  use  of  her  own  hands. 

It  is,  as  I  have  said  in  an  earlier  talk,  important  that  once 
a  week,  at  least,  everything  should  be  removed  from  the  bed- 
steads in  order  that  all  the  dust  and  lint,  which  will  lodge 
about  them,  may  be  removed,  and  occasionally  they  need  a 
faithful  washing,  to  rid  them  of  the  dust  and  lint  which  wiU 
settle  in  the  slats,  about  the  joints,  springs,  and  moldings. 

The  mattress  should  be  thrown  up  every  morning  for  a 
good  airing,  and  when  this  is  done  turn  it  over,  under  side 
wp,  and  then  proceed  to  make  the  bed. 

Making  beds  is  a  very  simple  thing.  Every  housekeeper 
may  have  some  rules  differing  from  her  neighbor  in  this  as 
well  as  in  every  department  of  labor ;  but  there  are  some 
that  are  common  to  all. 

Having  placed  the  mattress  evenly  on  the  springs  or  pal- 
liasse, beat  it  hard  to  remove  lumpy  places,  and  next  spread 
over  the  under  sheet  rityhf  side  tip,  with  the  wide  hem  at  the 
top,  and  raising  up  the  mattress  with  the  left  hand,  fold  the 
sheet  smoothly  under  at  the  top  and  bottom  ;  then  fold  under 
at  each  side,  bringing  the  sheet  very  tight  and  smooth  across 
the  mattress.  By  having  a  wide  hem  at  the  top  and  a  nar- 
row one  at  the  bottom,  there  is  less  danger  that  by  any  one's 
carelessness  you  may  some  time  sleep  with  that  part  of  the 
sheet  to  your  face  which  the  night  before  covered  your  feet. 
Now  spread  over  the  upper  sheet,  right  side  down ;  then  as 
you  put  the  finishing  touch  to  the  bed,  in  turning  the  upper 


90      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

sheet  down  on  the  spread  at  the  top,  the  right  side  of  the 
liem  will  be  outside.  In  spreading  on  the  upper  sheet,  bring 
it  well  uji  to  the  head  of  the  bed,  that  you  may  have  a  hand- 
some, generous  width  to  turn  down  ;  lay  it  very  smooth  and 
straight,  then  put  on  the  blankets,  folding  both  upper  sheet 
and  blankets  nicely  under  at  the  foot ;  but  bring  them  oidy 
so  far  up  at  the  head  as  will  cover  the  shoulders,  and  not 
turn  down  doubled  across  them. 

The  bed-spread  comes  next.  It  should  be  put  on  very 
evenly,  the  middle  fold  of  the  spread  coming  just  in  the 
middle  of  the  bed,  drawing  it  up  toward  the  head  about  as 
high  as  the  upper  sheet,  a  full  foot  above  the  blankets.  Now 
lift  the  top  of  the  blankets  with  one  hand  and  fold  the  spread 
smoothly  under  them,  on  one  side  of  the  bed,  then  pass  to 
the  other  side  and  proceed  in  hke  manner.  By  this  mode,  the 
spread  will  prevent  you  from  being  annoyed  with  the  rough 
blankets,  should  the  sheet  get  misplaced  during  the  night. 
This  done,  turn  the  upper  sheet  down  over  all,  drawing  it  as 
smootlily  as  possible,  and  tuck  all  down  at  the  sides,  between 
the  bedstead  and  the  mattress.  "When  tucking  under  the 
last  side,  draw  the  spread,  blankets,  and  upper  sheet  as  taut 
and  straight  as  possible,  giving  the  sides  of  the  bed  as  even 
and  true  a  line  as  you  can.  Kow  put  on  the  sheet  tidy,  if 
you  use  them ;  and  they  are  desirable,  even  if  made  of  cot- 
ton, and  perfectly  plain,  as  after  one  night's  use  the  upper 
sheet  becomes  wrinlded  and  tumbled,  and  the  bed  cannot  be 
made  to  look  as  neat  as  one  could  wish.  Then  lay  on  the 
bolster,  well  beaten  up,  in  its  clean,  white  case,  placing  the 
pillows,  which  have  also  been  faithfully  beaten,  above  all, 
and  dress  them  with  tidies,  to  match  the  sheet-tidy. 

Some  prefer  to  have  the  bolster  put  on  beneath  the  under- 
sheet,  in  Avhich  case  the  sheet  is  drawn  so  high  up  as  to  allow 
plenty  of  room  to  fold  under  the  lower  side  of  the  bolster, 
before  turning  under  the  head  of  the  mattress. 


MARKETING.  91 

A  bed  thus  made  will  be  smooth  and  level  on  the  top,  with- 
out a  wrinkle,  and  as  square  and  straight  at  the  sides  as  if 
boxed  in  wood. 

This  is  all  so  very  simple,  after  one  becomes  accustomed  to 
it,  that  the  old  ladies,  who  have  all  the  mysteries  of  house- 
keeping as  famUiar  and  entu'ely  at  their  command  as  the 
alphabet,  will  shake  their  heads  and  vote  this  a  very  stupid 
Avaste  of  time  and  space  ;  but  they  have  forgotten  how  ac- 
ceptable minute  directions  were  in  their  young  days.  So  we 
will  encourage  ourselves  by  hoping  that  some  tired  young 
housekeeper,  who  has  groaned  over  iU-made  beds,  may  find  a 
few  crumbs  of  comfort  here,  which  will  remove  a  part,  at 
least,  of  her  many  annoyances. 


XXIV. 

MARKETING. 


IT  is  very  important  that  every  lady  should  understand 
how  to  select  and  purchase  sucli  stores  as  may  be  needed 
in  her  family.  This  knowledge  must  be  acquired  in  girlhood. 
Mothers  should  allow  their  daughters  to  accompany  them 
occasionally  in  their  market  expeditions,  quietly  explaining, 
as  they  pass  from  one  stall  to  another  examining  the  various 
articles  needed,  their  reasons  for  rejecting  or  purchasing. 
We  are  all  incHned  to  put  off,  from  day  to  day,  this  part 
of  our  domestic  instructions  which  our  daughters  greatly 
need  ;  "we  are  too  busy,"  "  in  a  great  hurry,"  and  "  can't  be 
hindered,"  by  answering  the  thousand  whys  and  where- 
fores with  which  young  children  follow  us.  It  is,  to  be 
sure,  sometliing  of  an  annoyance,  but  very  trifling  compared 
with  the  pleasure  our  daughters  will  take  in  going  with  us 


92      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

through  our  daily  rounds,  if  we  begin  this  training  while 
they  are  small.  Let  them  occasionally  make  a  few  purchases 
themselves  ;  give  them  their  choice  from  among  certain  un- 
important articles,  and  then  explain  the  rule  by  which  they 
will  know  how  to  select  the  best  or  reject  the  imperfect. 
Such  lessons  must  begin  early,  or,  ere  we  are  aware,  our  ht- 
tle  girl  has  discarded  her  dolls  and  stands  by  our  side,  a 
lovely  woman ;  and  before  we  realize  this  bewildering  change 
the  voice  of  the  charmer  has  awaked  another  love  in  her 
heart,  for  which  she  leaves  father  and  mother  for  a  new 
home  and  new  cares.  Happy  for  us,  if  we  have  so  taught 
her  that  this  new  yoke  shall  be  easy  and  these  new  burdens 
Ught. 

In  marketing,  we  would  not  advise  roaming  from  one  store 
or  market  to  another,  after  one  has  become  sufficiently  ac- 
quainted in  a  city  or  village  to  have  a  correct  idea  of  the 
quality  of  the  produce  and  the  character  of  the  vender. 
UntU  this  knowledge  is  well  acquired,  it  is  important  for 
one's  own  security  to  make  trial  of  many ;  but  when  weU 
assured  that  you  have  gained  a  fair  estimate  of  both  quality 
and  character,  it  is,  we  think,  better  to  make  most  of  the  pur- 
chases at  one  place.  The  grocer,  butcher,  fish  and  poultry 
dealer  vsdll  take  greater  interest  in  faithfully  serving  a  regu- 
lar customer,  at  reasonable  rates,  than  one  who  may  not  buy 
of  him  again  for  weeks ;  and  it  certainly  is  a  greater  saving 
of  time  and  trouble  to  purchase  of  one  than  of  many.  If 
they  cannot  supply  your  present  needs,  it  is  for  their  interest 
to  send  out  and  procure  what  you  want ;  and  we  think  they 
generally  do  this  with  pleasure,  and  with  a  hearty  wish  to 
give  you  the  best. 

In  buying  Beef,  remember  that  ox  beef  is  the  best.  The 
animal  should  be  five  or  six  years  old  before  it  is  killed,  if 
you  would  have  .the  best  beef  If  well  fed  it  will  be  fine 
grained  ;  the  lean  should  be  of  a  bright  red  color,  and  well 


MARKETING.  93 

mingled  with  fat.  If  there  is  not  a  good  quantity  of  fat  run- 
ning through  it,  the  beef  will  be  tough  and  not  well  flavored. 
The  fat  should  be  a  rich  clear  white,  just  tinged  with  yellow, 
and  firm,  and  the  suet  also.  Heifer  or  cow  beef  is  paler  than 
ox  beef,  hrnier  grained,  the  fat  a  clear  white,  and  the  bones 
smaller,  but  it  is  not  as  rich  or  juicy.  When  the  animal  is 
too  old  or  badly  fed,  it  is  of  a  dark  red,  the  fat  skinny  and 
tough,  and  in  very  old  beef  a  horny  substance  will  be  found 
running  through  the  ribs.  When  it  is  pressed,  if  the  meat 
rises  quickly  from  the  finger  it  is  good  ;  but  if  the  finger- 
dent  rises  slowly  or  not  at  all,  do  not  buy  it ;  it  is  poor 
meat.  The  sirloin  and  the  middle  ribs  are  the  best  for  roast- 
ing. If  you  buy  a  sirloin,  have  it  cut  from  the  "  chump  end,'' 
Avhich  has  a  good  undercut  or  fillet.  The  rump  is  often  pre- 
ferred by  epicures,  but  being  too  large  to  roast  whole,  a 
roast  is  usually  cut  from  what  is  called  the  "  chump  end." 
Porter-house  steak  is  the  best  for  broiling,  but  not  the  most 
economical.  One  rib  is  too  small  for  baking ;  it  dries  in 
cooking,  and  is  not  good  economy,  unless  you  take  out  the 
bone,  roll  the  meat  and  stufi"  it,  when  it  makes  a  nice  dish 
for  a  small  family. 

Veal  should  be  small  and  white,  the  kidney  well  covered 
with  fat.  If  the  calf  is  over  ten  weeks  old  the  meat  will  be 
coarse.  The  flesh  should  be  dry  and  white.  If  coarse- 
grained, moist,  and  clammy,  have  nothing  to  do  with  it.  The 
fillet,  loin,  and  shoulder  are  the  best  for  roasting.  The  breast, 
well  cut  and  jointed,  makes  a  fine  stew  or  pot-pie,  and  is 
better  economy  than  when  baked  or  roasted.  Veal  is  excel- 
lent to  make  "  stock  "  for  soups  ;  the  knuckle  or  the  poorer 
parts  of  the  neck  are  just  as  good  for  soup  as  the  more 
expensive  parts. 

Mutton  should  be  dark  colored,  and  have  plenty  of  fat. 
The  color  determines  the  age,  and  age  is  considered  a  mark 
of  excellence  in  mutton.     It  should  be  five  or  six  years  old 


94      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

to  satisfy  a  lover  of  mutton.  All  the  joints  may  be  roasted 
but  the  saddle,  and  next  to  that,  the  haunch ;  the  leg  and 
loin  undivided  are  the  best;  chops  are  cut  from  the  loin, 
cutlets  from  the  leg,  the  best  end  of  the  neck,  or  thick  end 
of  the  loin.     The  leg  and  neck  are  often  boiled. 

Lamb  should  be  small,  pale  red,  and  fat.  It  is  best  roasted. 
The  leg,  when  the  lamb  attains  a  good  size,  is  excellent 
boiled. 

Pork  should  never  be  bought  except  from  a  butcher  whose 
honesty  you  are  sure  of,  and  who  knows  where  the  pork  was 
fattened.  It  is  not  a  very  healthful  meat  at  the  best,  and 
none  should  be  used  unless  corn-fed.  There  is  much  bad 
or  diseased  pork  sold,  and  it  is  very  dangerous  food.  If 
the  flesh  feels  flabby  or  clammy  to  the  touch,  it  is  not 
good,  and  should  not  on  any  account  be  used.  If  there  are 
kernels  in  the  fat,  let  it  alone.  The  fat  should  be  hard, 
the  lean  white  and  fine  in  the  gTain,  and  the  rind  thin  and 
smooth. 

As  soon  as  your  meat  of  any  kind  is  brought  home  from 
the  butcher's,  wipe  it  with  a  clean  dry  cloth.  If  in  summer 
you  find  any  "  fly-blows,"  which  is  very  common,  cut  them 
out  at  once,  and  no  harm  will  be  done.  In  the  loins  a  long 
pipe  runs  by  the  bone ;  that  should  be  taken  out  immedi- 
ately, or  in  a  few  hours  it  will  taint  and  spoil  the  whole 
joint.  If  the  meat  is  not  to  be  used  at  once,  dredge  it  with 
pepper.  Powdered  charcoal  dusted  over  meat  will  help  to 
keep  it  sweet,  or  will  remove  any  taint  already  begun.  It 
is  wise  to  keep  charcoal  on  hand  during  warm  weather  ;  it 
is  wonderfully  efficacious  in  preserving  meat,  and,  if  dusted 
over  it  wliile  hanging,  it  can  all  be  washed  off  when  you  are 
ready  to  cook  it.  INIost  meat  is  more  tender  and  easily  di- 
gested if  kept  hanging  some  time,  and  charcoal  is  a  great 
and  reliable  aid  in  preserving  it.  Lamb  and  veal  cannot  be 
kept  as  safely  as  beef  and  mutton. 


MARKETING.  95 

In  choosing  Fowls,  bear  in  mind  that  the  male  bird,  if  young, 
will  have  a  smooth  leg  and  a  short  spur,  eyes  bright  and  full, 
feet  supple.  The  hen  may  be  judged  by  tlie  same  signs,  and 
if  these  are  not  found,  be  sure  the  birds  are  stale  and  old. 

Ducks,  geese,  and  pigeons  should  have  pliable  feet  ;  if 
stiff,  they  are  old.  In  all  the  vent  should  be  firm ;  if  dis- 
colored or  flabby,  they  are  stale.  This  last  sign  should  be 
remembered  in  judging  of  all  poultry  or  game. 

The  eyes  of  Fish  should  be  bright,  the  gills  clear  red,  body 
stiff,  and  smell  not  unpleasant,  ŌĆö  or  rather,  not  stale,  for 
we  imagine  that  fish  can  never  be  of  a  pleasant  smell,  how- 
ever palatable  it  may  be  to  the  taste. 

As  far  as  possible,  buy  all  stores  by  the  quantity  ;  if  noth- 
ing else,  you  save  the  weight  of  paper,  no  small  item  in  the 
course  of  a  year ;  but  there  is  always  some  reduction  when 
an  article  is  purchased  at  wholesale.  You  save  the  retail 
commission,  if  notliing  more. 

In  Avarm  weather,  meats,  of  course,  cannot  be  bought  in 
large  quantities,  unless  for  a  large  family  who  are  in  posses- 
sion of  a  good  ice-house.  Ilice,  tapioca,  raisins,  etc.,  are  an 
exception  to  this  rule,  for  they  should  never  be  bought  in 
large  quantities,  except  for  boarding-houses  or  hotels,  as  they 
are  very  easily  filled  with  insects. 

A  store-room  should  be  very  dry,  and  supplied  Avith  a 
good  number  of  shelves  and  drawers  for  stores  of  all  kinds. 
A  thick  slab  should  be  placed  across  from  one  end  to  the  other, 
so  high  that  nothing  suspended  from  it  will  hit  the  head 
in  passing  through  it.  In  this  it  is  well  to  have  some  strong 
hooks  to  hang  hams,  dried  beef,  tongues,  baskets,  etc.  A 
neat  step-ladder  should  be  kept  in  one  corner,  by  which  you 
can  easily  reach  whatever  is  needed.  These  hooks  are  a 
great  convenience,  not  only  to  put  away  your  marketing,  but 
so  many  things  keep  better  for  being  suspended  where  there 
can  be  free  circulation  of  air ;  and  a  store-room  must  be  well 


96      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

ventilated.  Eggs  keep  well  hung  up  in  a  basket,  or  in  nets 
made  for  that  purpose.  Buy  your  lemons  in  June  and  July, 
when  freshest,  cheapest,  and  most  plentiful,  by  the  box,  and 
suspend  them  on  these  hooks  in  nets,  and  they  will  keep  all 


XXV. 

TEUST   YOUR   CHILDEEN. 

THEEE  is  no  lesson  that  so  well  repays  the  teacher  as 
that  by  which  children  are  taught  to  feel  that  they  are 
trusted ;  that  father  and  mother  commit  matters  of  impor- 
tance to  their  care,  with  confidence  that  they  will  not  dis- 
appoint them.  Begin  this  teaching  while  the  child  is  yet 
young.  Of  course  you  must  gauge  the  importance  of  the 
trust  by  the  age  of  the  child,  taking  care  that  you  do  not 
tax  the  little  one  beyond  its  capacity,  but  being  just  as  care- 
ful to  have  it  understand  that  you  a,re  in  earnest.  It  is  a 
great  event  in  a  child's  life  when  it  first  feels  that  you  look 
to  it  with  loving  confidence  for  the  performance  of  certain 
duties  that  you  have  trusted  to  its  honor.  The  feeling  of 
responsibility  which  comes  with  this  knowledge  awakens 
self-respect,  and  the  care  and  faithfulness  which  the  youngest 
sees  must  be  necessary  to  the  satisfactory  execution  of  the 
work  will  be  good  seed  sown,  which  in  after  years  will  bear 
fruit,  amply  repaying  all  the  trouble  it  cost  to  prepare  the 
soil  for  its  reception.  That  such  teaching  is  not  the  easiest 
duty  one  can  accept,  every  mother  knows  full  well,  and 
would  much  prefer  to  do  the  work  herself,  if  conscience  per^ 
mitted,  than  be  subjected  to  the  tediousness  and  annoyance 
of  drilling  a  child  to  do  it.  But  this  is  a  mother's  mission, 
which  it  is  not  wise  to  delegate  to  another. 


TRUST  YOUR   CHILDREN.  97 

When  a  child  has  been  repeatedly  shown  precisely  how- 
to  do  certain  things,  begin  to  leave  these  little  chores  for  it 
to  do  alone  when  you  are  not  near.  Let  it  be  something 
trivial  at  first,  of  course.  Say  to  the  little  two-year-old, 
"  Mamma  nnist  go  out  for  a  little  while.  I  am  sorry  to  leave 
the  nursery  in  such  disorder ;  but  Eddie  is  such  a  helpfid 
little  man,  he  will  put  all  the  blocks  and  '  Noah's  Ark '  up 
just  as  I  like  to  see  them ;  and  little  Kitty,  too,  knows 
how  I  wish  her  to  fold  the  doll's  clothes  and  lay  them  in  the 
drawer,  when  her  play  is  over ;  I  am  sure  tliis  room  will 
look  very  nice  when  I  return." 

If  this  kindly  training  is  begun  early,  do  you  not  know 
how  proud  and  happy  these  miniature  men  and  women  mil 
feel  when  this  work  is  intrusted  to  their  care,  ŌĆö  a  token  of 
mother's  confidence  in  their  ability  ]  Of  course,  it  may  be 
necessary  to  be  a  little  short-sighted  when  you  return,  and 
pass  over  for  the  time  some  few  items  that  will  bear  im- 
provement ;  but  let  these  wait.  Appear  pleased  ŌĆö  he  pleased 
ŌĆö  with  their  efibrts  ;  give  as  much  sweet  praise  as  is  judi- 
cious, to  gladden  their  little  hearts.  It  will  be  time  enough 
when  the  next  trial  is  made  to  say,  "  I  think  I  would  fold 
this  little  dress  so,"  or,  "  Put  those  books  here."  Gentle 
hints,  interspersed  with  all  possible  approval,  will  fix  the 
lesson,  so  that  you  can  soon  feel  safe  to  put  the  play-room 
almost  wholly  in  the  care  of  quite  young  children,  except  the 
sweeping  or  other  work  beyond  their  strength.  But  these 
lessons,  as  we  said  before,  must  begin  early,  else  the  child 
will  learn  to  prefer  being  waited  upon  to  doing  the  work  itself. 

As  your  child  can  bear  it,  add  year  by  year  to  the  trust 
and  responsibility.  Accept  the  labor  as  a  love-offering 
to  save  your  time  and  strength,  and  it  will  not  be  long  be- 
fore willing  hands  and  happy  hearts  will  really  lighten  your 
labors,  and  save  you  many  weary  steps,  while  at  the  same 
time  they  are  learning  a  lesson  that  will  do  them  good 
5  G      Ō¢Ā 


98      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

througli  life.  Vary  the  teacliing,  by  sending  the  cliild,  by 
and  by,  out  to  do  a  little  shopping,  ŌĆö  some  small  thing,  but 
such  as  will  call  for  the  exercise  of  taste  and  a  little  judg- 
ment ;  nothing  of  much  importance,  so  that,  should  there 
chance  to  be  a  slight  mistake,  no  great  harm  will  follow  ;  yet 
so  much  that  the  child,  by  thus  learning  to  judge  and  discrim- 
inate in  small  things,  will  be  preparing  for  greater  ones. 

An  expedition  of  this  kind  stands  out  among  the  bright- 
est of  our  childhood  memories.  It  was  in  a  season  of  severe 
sickness  both  at  home  and  in  the  \'icinity.  Our  mother  was 
ill,  the  older  children  either  on  the  sick  list  or  absent.  It 
was  quite  necessary  to  send  to  the  shire  town,  twelve  miles 
distant,  where,  in  those  "long-ago"  days,  the  most  impor- 
tant shopping  was  done,  and  the  foreign  groceries  purchased. 
Father  had  his  buggy  at  the  door  just  ready  to  start  on  this 
tour,  and  was  making  a  list  of  the  last  items,  and  directions 
from  mother,  when  he  was  summoned  in  great  haste  to  a 
patient.  Here  was  a  dilemma !  The  purchases  must  be 
made ;  the  patient  must  be  cared  for.  What  was  to  be 
done '?  We  were  sitting  in  the  south  hall-door,  playing  with 
the  baby,  so  near  to  the  sick-room  that  we  coidd  not  help 
hearing  the  consultation.  Father  must  go  to  his  patient ; 
but  who  was  to  go  for  the  articles  so  greatly  needed  1  The 
"  tailoress  "  would  be  on  hand  in  the  morning,  and  the  cloth 
must  be  had  for  her  work ;  a  tailoress  was  an  important 
character  in  those  days,  and  if  we  lost  our  turn  there  would 
be  weeks  to  wait  before  we  could  secure  her  again.  That 
would  never  do,  for  "  the  boys  "  must  soon  return  to  school, 
and  their  clothes  be  ready,  anyhow.  What  could  be  done  ] 
We  heard  the  hurried  talk,  with  a  kind  of  dreamy  wonder 
as  to  how  they  would  settle  the  troublesome  question ;  but, 
as  one  who  could  have  no  personal  interest  in  the  solution, 
went  on  with  our  frolic  with  baby,  when  mother  said, 
"Write  out  a  list,  with  full  directions,  and  send  E ." 


TRUST  YOUR  CHILDREN.  99 

What  a  bound  our  heart  gave  !  We  nearly  dropped  the 
baby.  We,  not  twelve  years  old ;  and  mother  thought  we 
could  be  trusted  to  do  such  a  big  thing !  We  felt  a  half- 
head  taller  only  to  think  that  mother ŌĆö  bless  her  !  ŌĆö  thought 
us  capable  of  it.  Whether  it  was  decided  that  we  should 
go  or  not  was,  just  then,  quite  a  secondary  consideration,  yet 
we  were  "  all  ears "  to  catch  father's  reply  :  "  Send  that 
child !  What  does  she  know  of  buying  anytliing  1  And 
this  is  a  very  important  errand." 

Ah  !  here  our  heart  collapsed  ;  we  did  n't  quite  want  to  go, 
ŌĆö  the  work  seemed  so  great,  ŌĆö  but  we  did  want  father  to 
think  us  as  trustworthy  and  capable  as  mother  did. 

"  If  you  think  it  safe  for  her  to  drive  alone  so  far,  I  think 
you  may  trust  her  to  do  the  errand  well,  with  suitable  direc- 
tions. The  merchants  and  grocers  are  old  friends,  and  will 
not  take  advantage  of  the  child." 

"  Well,  it  is  the  only  thing  we  can  do,"  said  father,  with 
an  anxious,  dissatisfied  tone,  and  this  great  responsibility  was 
committed  _tp  our  care. 

How  much  we  thought  in  that  long  twelve-miles  ride  to 
the  town  !  What  anxious  thoughts  on  the  return  ride,  fear- 
ing that  we  had  forgotten  something,  or  made  some  ill-ad- 
vised purchase ;  but  under  it  all  there  was  a  dull  pain  to 
remember  that  father  did  n't  quite  trust  us,  which  did  not 
leave  us  until,  safe  at  home,  all  the  purchases  laid  out  and 
examined,  he  drew  us  to  his  knee,  close  by  mother's  sick- 
bed, and  kissed  us,  with,  "Well  done,  my  brave  girl !  Has 
n't  she  done  well,  mother  ]  " 

How  much  good  that  day's  work  did  us,  giving  us  courage 
when  duties  seemed  too  hard  for  us,  we  can  never  estimate  ; 
but  the  most  precious  of  all  was  our  mother's  trust  and 
father's  approbation.  It  is  only  by  love  and  gentleness  that 
a  child  can  be  taught  to  find  real  enjoyment  in  later  or  im- 
portant cares.     Exact  it  as  a  duty  ;  sternly  command,  watch, 


100      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WTTH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

with  constant  suspicion  and  fault-finding,  and  labor  is  a 
drudgery,  and  cares  of  any  kind  a  terror  to  the  young.  The 
child  either  becomes  stubborn,  or,  if  timid  and  loving,  is  so 
nervously  fearful  of  being  blamed,  that  this  very  fear  insures 
the  dreaded  results.  Ah,  if  young  mothers  could  know  how 
many  hours  of  self-reproach  the  grandmothers  pass  as  they 
look  to  the  time  when  their  little  ones  were  around  them, 
and  see,  too  late,  how  many  mistakes  they  made  simply  by 
their  own  impatience,  over-strictness,  and  want  of  confidence 
in  their  children's  good  intention  and  desire  to  do  right,  it 
might  save  them  from  much  regret,  and  their  children  from 
many  temptations.  But  each  one  must  have  an  experience 
of  her  own.  When  young,  we  seldom  are  ready  to  profit 
by  the  experience  of  the  old,  or  think  them  of  much  more 
importance  than  "  old  wives'  fables,"  but  when,  after  many 
mistakes,  we  arrive  at  middle  age,  we  are  able  to  estimate 
their  value. 


XXVI. 

WHO  INVENTED  BREAD? 

AMOITG  the  countless  varieties  of  food,  bread,  in  some 
form  or  other,  has  been  almost  universally  recognized 
as  "  the  staff  of  life."  When  it  became  so  truly  a  neces- 
sity, or  who  was  the  happy  inventor,  we  know  not.  How 
far  before  the  creation  wise  men  have  pushed  their  researches 
and  discoveries,  we  have  not  the  skill  to  ascertain.  The 
first  mention  of  bread  we  remember  is  in  the  third  chapter 
of  Genesis,  when  Adam  was  driven  from  Paradise  and  com- 
pelled "  in  the  sweat  of  his  face  to  eat  bread,"  "  because  he 
hearkened  to  the  voice  of  his  wife."  .  Many  of  his  sons 
liave,  since  their  forefathers'  time,  regained  Paradise,  because 


WHO   INVENTED   BREAD?  101 

they  did  listen  to  their  wives'  counsels.  We  wonder  if  men 
do  not  sometimes  forget  this,  and  cherish  a  little  spiteful 
vindictiveness,  because  through  the  first  mother  their  proto- 
type fell,  and  he  had  to  "  work  for  his  living."  Perhaps  it 
is  this  memory  which  makes  them  so  restive  under  the 
present  efforts  for  a  recognition  of  a  broader  platform  for 
"  women's  rights."  How  silly,  brethren  !  Let  bygones  be 
bygones.  Did  not  the  curse  fall  heavier  on  us  for  our  first 
mother's  folly,  than  on  you  for  Adam's  very  ready  participa- 
tion in  it  ?  Don't  bear  malice  !  Help  us  up,  ŌĆö  not  above 
you,  for  we  do  not  belong  there,  but  close  by  your  side,  ŌĆö 
where  we  may  do  good  to  you,  as  you  do  good  to  us.  If 
Adam  had  not  been  off  on  a  council  committee,  public  din- 
ner, or  at  a  club  house,  but  working  and  caring  for  his  farm 
in  Eden  with  liis  wife,  we  don't  believe  Eve  would  have 
been  tempted,  or,  being  tempted,  would  have  eaten  that  mis- 
erable apple.  But  we  shall  never  learn  how  bread  was  in- 
vented if  we  linger. 

"  Abel  was  a  keeper  of  sheep,  but  Cain  was  a  tiller  of  the 
ground."  The  production  of  grain  for  food  has  always  been 
recognized  as  the  sign  of  an  advanced  stage  of  civilization. 
Like  most  of  the  early  traces  of  progress,  the  time  when 
grain  first  began  to  be  transformed  into  bread  is  quite  ob- 
scure. For  a  long  period  the  grain  was  eaten,  when  green, 
either  raw,  boiled,  or  roasted.  The  Greeks  usually  deified 
every  new  thing.  Ceres  was  supposed  to  have  first  brought 
husbandry  into  some  regular  system  ;  therefore  they  at  once 
constituted  her  the  goddess  of  Agriculture  ;  and  Pan,  ac- 
cording to  their  belief,  invented  bread,  and  was  forthwith 
exalted  into  a  god ;  but  long  before  Ceres  or  Pan  were  wor- 
shipped, the  Egyptians  cultivated  the  earth  and  made  bread 
from  the  grain. 

When  the  angels  appeared  on  the  plains  of  Mamre  and 
foretold  the  birth  of  a  son,  in  Abraham's  old  age,  he  has- 


102      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

tened  into  a  tent  and  said  to  Sarah,  "  Make  ready  quickly 
three  measures  of  meal,  knead  it,  and  make  cakes  upon  the 
hearth." 

Many  modes  of  preparing  grain,  either  in  cakes  or  bread, 
are  seen  in  the  paintings  discovered  in  the  tombs  of  the 
Egyptians  ;  but  doubtless  for  many  years  the  chief  food  was 
fish,  flesh,  or  fruit.  The  Indians  used  a  kind  of  wild  corn, 
when  driven  to  it  by  the  scarcity  of  game,  or  if  unsuccess- 
ful in  hunting ;  but  they  never  attempted  to  cultivate  it. 
They  boiled  it  when  green,  or  baked  it  on  hot  stones,  or 
roasted  it  by  their  fires,  as  we  do  the  cultivated  Indian  com. 
Maize  or  Turkish  wheat  and  a  kind  of  miUet  are  still  used, 
unground,  among  the  poorer  classes  in  Egypt,  boiled  in  milk 
or  water,  or  roasted. 

At  a  later  period,  rude  stones  were  made  to  separate  the 
husks  from  the  kernel ;  and  not  long  since,  it  may  be 
even  now,  in  the  remote  parts  of  Scotland,  a  large  block 
of  hard  wood  was  dug  out  smootUy,  and  after  the  grain  had 
been  well  dried,  the  barley  or  oats  was  beaten  in  it  till  the 
husk  was  removed.  "When  sufficiently  broken  or  bruised  to 
loosen  the  hull,  it  was  scooped  up  into  the  hand,  little  by 
little,  and  blown  gently  with  the  mouth  to  remove  all  the 
husk,  and  then  made  into  pottage  or  porridge.  It  now 
seems  a  small  thing  to  have  all  our  grain  ground  and  sifted 
by  machinery  worked  by  steam ;  but  how  tedious  must  have 
been  the  ancient  process  !  The  quern  used  in  Scotland  to 
remove  the  husk  and  prepare  the  barley  for  use  is  supposed 
to  have  found  its  way  thither  through  the  Eomans,  who  al- 
ways carried  hand-mills  in  their  marches  or  raids  upon  other 
nations.  It  is  very  simple,  and  perhaps  the  first  kind  of 
corn  mill  on  record.  "  The  quern  was  made  of  two  stones," 
says  Dr.  Johnson,  "  a  foot  and  a  half  in  diameter ;  the 
lower  stone  a  little  convex  ;  to  which  the  concavity  of  the 
upper  stone  was  fitted.     In  the  middle  of  the  upper  one 


WHO   INVENTED  BREAD?  103 

was  a  round  hole,  and  on  one  side  a  long  handle.  The 
grinder  gradually  shred  the  corn  into  this  hole  with  one 
hand,  and  worked  the  handle  with  the  other.  Thus  the 
corn  slid  down  into  the  hollow  of  the  lower  stone,  and  hy 
the  motion  of  the  upper  was  ground  in  the  passage."  The 
quern  acts  so  much  on  the  principle  of  our  miU-stones  that 
our  mills  might  be  called  querns,  built  on  a  larger  scale,  and 
run  by  steam  or  machinery.  The  meal  thus  ground  was 
made  into  pottage  or  porridge,  being  boiled  in  milk  or  water, 
or  "  brose  "  when  it  was  roasted,  and  boiled  up  in  water  in 
which  salt  meat  had  been  cooked. 

Who  first  conceived  the  idea  of  using  yeast  or  leaven,  or 
making  bread  by  any  process  of  fermentation,  or  at  what 
period  it  was  first  so  made,  we  do  not  learn.  We  laiow  that 
the  Israelites  made  leavened  bread  ;  so  did  the  Egyptians 
and  Grecians  ;  but  who  first  invented  yeast  or  leaven  1  The 
Romans,  it  is  thought,  learned  the  art  of  bread-making,  with 
many  other  valuable  lessons,  during  their  war  with  Perseus, 
king  of  Macedon.  On  the  return  of  their  armies  from 
these  wars,  they  brought  Grecian  bakers  with  them  into 
Italy.  This  was  two  hundred  years  before  the  Christian 
era.  Bakers  were  highly  esteemed,  and  during  the  reign  of 
Augustus  there  were  three  hundred  and  twenty-nine  public 
bake-houses  in  Rome,  chiefly  under  the  management  of 
Greeks,  who  were  for  many  years  the  only  ones  who  could 
make  good  bread.  They  enjoyed  many  privileges,  and  were 
put  in  charge  of  the  public  granaries. 

The  making  of  fermented  bread  then  gradually  found  its 
way  into  Gaul ;  but  it  was  a  long  time  before  it  was  known 
in  IS'orthern  Europe.  In  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury, unfermented  cakes  were  the  only  bread  known  in 
Sweden  or  Norway.  It  was  not  till  near  the  end  of  the 
sixteenth  century  that  the  use  of  yeast  was  much  known  in 
l^orthern  Europe.     About  that  period  yeast  from  Flanders 


104      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

was  brought  into  Paris  as  a  substitute  for  leaven.  This 
change  greatly  improved  the  bread;  but  in  1688  the  College 
of  Physicians  declared  that  bread  made  from  yeast  was 
very  injurious,  and  the  government  forbade  its  being  used. 
But  the  shrewd  Flemish  people  put  up  yeast  in  sacks  to 
allow  the  liquid  part  to  filter  through,  and  privately  sent  it 
to  Paris.  The  excellence  of  the  bread  thus  made  became  so 
evident,  that  the  College  of  Physicians  and  their  wisdom 
were  forgotten,  and  the  government's  prohibition  quietly 
allowed  to  sink  into  oblivion.  Very  soon  this  new  and 
improved  method  of  preparing  bread  extended  into  other 
countries. 

Leaven  is  flour  and  water  mixed  to  a  paste  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  ŌĆö  from  70┬░  to  80┬░  ŌĆö  till  it  ferments,  first  pass- 
ing into  the  vinous  and  then  to  the  acetous  state.  Bread 
made  from  leaven  differs  from  that  made  from  yeast  by 
almost  always  having  an  acid  taste.  A  piece  of  dough,  from 
well-raised  bread,  set  aside  on  ice  or  in  a  cool  place,  and 
worked  into  the  next  batch  to  be  made,  gives  the  best  mode 
of  making  leaven  ;  and  by  working  a  little  soda  into  it  before 
setting  the  sponge,  will  make  very  fine  bread,  without  the 
acidity  common  to  leavened  bread,  if  managed  with  care. 

Wheat  bread  is  now  common  in  most  countries.  The  best 
and  whitest  is  made  from  the  flour  of  the  first  grinding. 
Gluten  is  a  very  important  part  of  flour,  and  it  is  that  which 
gives  wheat  the  superiority  over  all  other  grains,  it  being 
found  only  in  small  quantities  in  any  other.  It  is  the  gluten 
which  helps  to  form  the  adhesive  paste  essential  to  secure 
fermentation.  It  is  common  in  the  animal  kingdom,  but 
rare  in  the  vegetable,  and  therefore  is  sometimes  called  the 
vegeto-animal  2^fi'>^ciple.  The  more  gluten  the  better  and 
more  nutritious  the  flour.  The  loss  of  this  principle,  by 
sprouting,  mildew,  etc.,  destroys  the  adhesive  power  so 
necessary  to  making   good   bread.     The   best  qualities   of 


WHO  INVENTED  BREAD?  105 

flour  take  up  the  largest  quantity  of  moisture ;  the  amount 
which  can  be  absorbed  depends  on  the  quantity  of  gluten. 
In  dry  weather,  flour  requires  more  moisture  than  in  wet, 
and  long  and  faithful  kneading  will  add  to  the  power  of 
absorption,  without  making  the  bread  too  thin.  Common 
salt  and  alum  are  often  used  to  give  poor  flour  the  tender- 
ness and  whiteness  of  good  brands.  A  little  salt  is  good, 
but  too  much  is  injurious,  both  to  the  bread  and  to  the 
health,  ŌĆö  alum  still  more  injurious.  Liebig  recommends 
lime-water  in  bread-making.  A  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
slacked  lime  to  a  gallon  of  pure  rain  or  distilled  water, 
kept  in  closely  stopped  bottles ;  two  and  a  half  pints  of  the 
"lime-water  to  nine  pou^nds  of  flour,  he  says,  will  make  a 
sweet,  fine-grained,  elastic  bread  of  exquisite  flavor.  The 
lime-water  to  be  mixed  with  the  flour  before  the  yeast  is 
added.  Of  course,  it  will  not  be  enough  moisture  for  that 
amount  of  flour,  and  as  much  more  water  is  added  as  is 
needed.  Liebig  claims  that  the  lime  will  give  the  wheat  a 
larger  amount  of  bone-making  element,  and  therefore  be 
more  nutritious. 

Rice  flour,  or  potatoes  combined  with  flour,  help  to  take 
up  moisture,  and  keep  bread  from  drying.  Eye  flour 
makes  a  dark-colored  bread,  but  is  sweet  and  palatable,  re- 
taining moisture  longer  than  Avheat.  Indian  meal,  mixed 
with  rye,  and  a  spoonful  or  two  of  molasses  added  with  the 
yeast,  makes  the  ISTew  England  brown  bread  ;  but  to  have 
that  in  perfection  it  should  be  baked  in  a  brick  oven,  and 
remain  all  night ;  then,  warm  and  fresh  for  breakfast,  it  is 
unrivalled. 

Graham  bread  is  made  from  unbolted  wheat,  the  bran  not 
separated  from  the  flour.  The  coarse  meal  swells  more  in 
rising,  and  should  not  be  made  so  stifl"  as  fine  flour.  It 
sours  more  quickly,  requires  a  hotter  oven,  and  longer  time 
to  bake.  Much  kneading  is  essential  to  cement  together  the 
5* 


106      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

starch,  sugar,  albumen,  and  gluten  found  in  wheat.  It  is 
not  easy  to  knead  bread  sufficiently  for  a  satisfactory  result. 
Many  machines  for  this  purpose  have  been  invented,  but  we 
have  yet  to  see  one  that  can  be  as  fully  depended  upon  as  a 
strong  arm  and  a  skillful  hand.  The  hand  only  can  decide 
truly  when  every  lump  is  dissolved,  and  suitable  combina- 
tions made.  When  the  dough  springs  under  the  touch,  in- 
stead of  clinging  to  the  fingers,  when  the  fist  bears  its  full 
impression  in  the  dough,  and  none  adheres  to  the  hand,  the 
cook  may  cease  from  the  labor.  This  labor  may  be  lightened 
by  pounding  and  chopping  at  intervals,  and  with  much  bene- 
fit ;  but  the  hand  is  the  chief  dependence. 

If  the  yeast  is  bitter,  pour  on  water,  and  let  it  stand  a 
few  hours  ;  then  drain  it  off,  and  use  the  thick  part  which 
has  settled  at  the  bottom.  The  water  will  absorb  the  bitter- 
ness, unless  it  is  from  age,  and  not  because  of  too  many 
hops.  In  this  case,  a  piece  of  charcoal  heated  through,  but 
not  so  hot  as  to  kill  the  yeast,  thrown  into  the  yeast  jar, 
wiU  correct  it;  but  we  should  prefer  to  tlirow  away  the 
yeast,  and  make  new. 

When  all  the  rules  for  making  good  bread  have  been  faith- 
fully followed,  all  will  fail  if  not  properly  baked.  We  think 
nothing  has  yet  been  found  that  is  equal  to  the  brick  oven  ; 
but  in  whatever  oven  you  bake,  one  rule  is  common  to  all, 
ŌĆö  see  that  the  heat  is  just  right ;  from  350┬░  to  400┬░  is  the 
proper  range  for  bread.  If  fresh  flour  or  meal  is  thrown  on 
the  bottom  of  the  oven,  and  tiirns  a  clear  brown  at  once,  it 
is  right ;  if  it  becomes  black  the  oven  is  too  hot. 

We  have  been  greatly  indebted  to  Webster's  "  Encyclopae- 
dia of  Domestic  Economy,"  and  Professor  Youman's  "  Hand- 
book of  Domestic  Science,"  for  our  information,  on  bread. 


HOW  ABOUT   THE   LITTLE  GIRLS?  107 

XXVII. 

HOW  ABOUT  THE  LITTLE  GIRLS? 

"  A  SHORT  time  since  you  advocated  '  teaching  little 
ur\.  boys  to  be  useful '  by  training  them  to  do,  indoors 
or  out,  whatever,  for  the  time  being,  lay  within  the  compass 
of  their  strength  and  ability.  But  now  we  wish  to  ask,  How 
about  little  girls  ?  The  boys  say  it  is  n't  fair  to  call  upon 
them  to  perform  '  girls'  work,'  unless  the  girls  are  made  to 
reciprocate  the  favor,  and  are  willing  to  take  their  turn  in 
doing  '  boys'  Avork '  when  necessary." 

Bless  your  httle  hearts,  dear  boys  !  "Who  objects  to 
that  1  Xot  the  little  girls,  certainly.  Is  n't  it  just  what 
many  of  the  big  girls  are  seeking  to  do,  and  the  big  boi/s  ŌĆö 
"  children  of  a  larger  growth  "  than  you,  my  little  man  ŌĆö 
are  striving  to  prevent  1  Where  is  the  girl,  unless  she  has 
by  fashion  and  conventionalities  been  unnaturally  biassed, 
who  would  not  gladly,  once  in  a  while,  exchange  sewing, 
sweeping,  and  dusting  for  a  run  out  into  the  free  air  and 
glad  sunshine,  to  take  your  place,  and  do  your  work,  ŌĆö  feed 
the  chickens,  weed  in  the  garden,  hoe  the  corn,  milk  the 
cows,  or  rake  the  hay,  ŌĆö  though  modern  improvements  have 
of  late  cheated  them  of  half  such  pleasures  ?  Anything  that 
little  boys  can  do,  little  girls  would  think  "  such  fun,"  if  they 
might  occasionally  have  the  privilege  of  doing  it,  ŌĆö  country 
girls,  we  mean,  ŌĆö  God  help  those  whose  home  is  in  the  city  ! 
There  are  so  few  pleasures  there  that  the  young  can  eujoy  in 
the  open  air.  To  walk  on  hard,  cold  sidewalks,  dressed  like 
little  ballet-dancers,  or  ride  over  the  rough  pavements,  with 
no  free,  untrammeled  movement,  or  through  the  dirty 
streets,  with  their  vile,  impure  smells,  can  give  no  such  joys 


108      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

as  our  country  damsels,  with  their  larger  inheritance  and 
more  abundant  blessings,  are  in  daily  possession  of.  There 
is  nothing  equal  to  the  pleasure  our  Httle  folks  may  find,  in 
any  kind  "of  outdoor  employment,  that  is  suited  to  their  age 
and  strength.  These  simple  labors  prepare  them  for  larger 
and  more  important  duties,  and  the  knowledge  will  bring 
abiding  comfort  and  self-reliance  as  they  advance  in  age  and 
intelligence. 

"  WiU  not  such  work  make  girls  coarse,  romping,  and  hoy- 
denish  ?  Eough,  noisy  boys  are  bad  enough  ;  would  you 
have  our  girls  become  like  them  1 " 

Is  it  the  outdoor  work  that  makes  them  so  1  Is  it  not 
rather  the  overflow  of  animal  spirits  that  can  find  no  way 
of  escape  but  by  boisterous,  wild  action?  It  is  not  very 
agreeable  to  the  old  and  staid,  to  be  sure,  and  it  certainly 
is  less  annoying  outdoors  than  in ;  yet  it  promotes  health, 
and  is  only  what  we  all  did,  or  longed  to  do,  in  our  youth. 
Age  will  soon  tame  the  wild  spirits,  or  restrain  a  too  exuber- 
ant overflow,  and  nothing  keeps  them  in  check  like  pleasant 
labor.  There  are,  to  be  sure,  sometimes  unfortunate  associ- 
ations with  really  coarse,  rude  natures,  which  are  very  objec- 
tionable. We  would  never  allow  girls  or  boys  to  come  under 
such  influence  if  we  could  help  it ;  but  that  evil  is  to  be 
found  in  every  position,  ŌĆö  as  often  in  the  house  as  in  the 
field,  ŌĆö and  if  not  inherent  in  your  child's  own  character,  the 
influence  will  soon  be  discarded,  the  dross  be  separated,  and 
the  purer  nature  rise  dominant.  You  must  go  out  of  the 
world  to  insure  safety  from  such  contact. 

"  But  country  girls  are  not  often  ladylike  and  graceful ; 
and  work  outdoors  will  tend  to  make  them  still  more  awk- 
ward. I  could  n't  endure  to  see  my  little  girl  brought  up 
under  such  influences." 

We  have  never  found  in  the  city  more  graceful,  ladylike, 
intelligent,  pure-minded  girls  than  we  have  seen  in  the  coun- 


HOW  ABOUT  THE  LITTLE  GIRLS?  109 

try  ;  but  we  have  sometimes  noticed  that  those  who  live 
nearest  to  the  city,  or  have  spent  much  time  there,  too  often 
acquire  artificial  habits,  affectation,  coquetry,  loud,  bold  speech, 
or  a  fondness  for  dress,  too  stylish  for  a  truly  modest  girl's 
adorning,  that  is  seldom  seen  in  real  country  life.  We  do 
not  think  that  any  kind  or  amount  of  labor  wiU  make  one 
less  modest  or  ladyhke.  We  believe  that  our  girls  should 
know  how  to  do,  with  their  own  hands,  everything  that  they 
have  strength  for,  and  thereby  secure  and  establish  vigor  and 
capacity  for  duties  that,  in  after  years,  may  fall  to  their  lot. 
We  do  not  mean  that  outdoor  labor  should  be  their  habitual 
emj)loyment.  We  wish  them  to  have  the  actual  knowledge  ; 
but  the  heavier  work,  which  more  appropriately  belongs  to 
boys  and  men,  should  be  undertaken  by  girls  and  women 
only  on  an  emergency.  Then  love  or  will,  or  both  united, 
can  make  woman  strong  to  do  the  hardest  work,  if  she  has 
the  knowledge,  while  the  necessity  lasts.  It  is  because  such 
calls  may  be  made  on  every  one  all  through  Ufe,  that  we 
^  would  have  each  one  secure  the  knowledge  early ;  but  in  ex- 
treme cases,  the  overstrain  on  a  woman's  physical  life,  if  long 
continued,  will  compel  the  payment  of  large  interest  in  later 
years,  and  therefore  should  be  undertaken  through  necessity 
only.  God  has  not  organized  man  and  woman  alike,  physi- 
cally ;  nor,  do  we  believe,  mentally  either.  We  hasten  to 
add,  lest  we  should  be  arraigned  for  heresy,  that  we  do  not 
say  they  are  not  equal,  but  only  different ;  the  question 
of  equality  we  wait  for  their  own  works  to  answer.  Woman 
has  sweeter,  tenderer,  dearer  duties,  demanding  an  organiza- 
tion distinct  from  that  which  fits  man  for  his  rougher,  harder, 
more  extended,  more  public,  but  not  more  noble  work.  We 
hear  of  women  who  have  cut  down  their  timber,  built  their 
walls,  ploughed  their  fields,  or  done  the  blacksmithing  for  the 
neighborhood  with  their  own  hands,  from  choice,  ŌĆö  a  kind 
of  work  which  we  could  not  do,  and  woidd  not  if  we  could, 


110      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

unless  driven  to  it  by  some  pressing  necessity  ;  but  we  should 
like  to  store  up  the  knowledge  how  to  do  it  against  the  time 
of  need.  Still,  we  need  not  object  if  others  take  pleasure  in 
it.  Yet  will  not  their  own  bodies,  when  they  leave  youth 
behind  and  go  down  to  middle  age,  bear  -witness  against 
tlie  unnatural  strain  which  they  have  been  subjected  tol 
Those  whose  office  it  is  "  to  replenish  the  earth  "  cannot  make 
these  violent  drafts  upon  their  system  with  impunity.  It  is 
not  for  a  regular,  daily  occupation  that  we  would  desire  to 
have  girls  taught  how  to  do  their  brothers'  work  as  well  as 
their  own,  though  much  that  pertains  to  that  will  always  be 
pleasant  and  attractive,  and  light  work  in  the  open  air  will 
always  furnish  healthy  exercise  for  our  girls ;  but  we  want 
to  see  every  member  of  the  family  so  educated  that  there 
may  never  occur  a  vacancy  about  the  home  that  some  one, 
girl  or  boy,  man  or  woman,  is  not  able  and  willing  to  step 
into  and  fill  satisfactorily.  To  this  end,  faithfully  teach  your 
little  ones,  girls  or  boys,  to  put  their  hands  to  any  work  that 
is  necessary. 

"  Next  you  will  tell  us  to  let  our  girls  saw  and  split  wood, 
milk  the  cows,  harness  and  unharness  the  horse,  etc." 

Yes.  "Why  not  ?  They  should  know  how  to  do  all  this, 
and  do  it  well ;  and  try  it  often  enough  to  feel  at  ease  and 
without  fear  in  the  effort,  and  that  will  be  sufficient  for  the 
present.  But  suppose  in  a  few  years  your  daughter  marries, 
and  goes  from  you  to  some  distant  settlement  where  neigh- 
bors are  scarce  and  "  help  "  uncertain.  Gii'ls  of  wealth  and 
refinement  have  done  such  things.  Let  the  monotony  of 
frontier  life  be  occasionally  enlivened  by  a  real  attack  of 
chills  and  fever  in  which  all  take  a  part.  When  husband 
and  "  help,"  if  your  daughter  is  so  fortunate  as  to  secure  any, 
take  their  turn  in  shaking,  will  not  the  wife  look  back  to  the 
time  when  brother  WiU  and  she  had  their  miniature  saws 
and  hatchets,  and  made  much  sport  in  preparing  the  kin- 


HOW   ABOUT  THE  LITTLE  GIRLS  1  111 

dlings  1  Won't  she  see  that  the  knowledge  how  to  do  tliis, 
which  was  simply  amusement  then,  has  been  stored  up  for 
real  service  now  1  She  little  thought  when  grandpa  taught 
lier  to  milk  old  Brindle  without  fear  of  the  gentle  animal, 
how  she  woidd  thank  him  for  it  in  this  far-off  home.  Are 
you  sure  that  jout  little  girl  will  never  be  placed  in  circum- 
stances, for  oidy  a  few  hours  perhaps,  when  she  would  be 
most  thankful  to  know  how  to  do  any  one  of  these  things  1 
Can  you  not  imagine  circumstances  where  it  would  be  an 
incalculable  blessing  1  We  can,  any  number  of  them,  not  at 
all  beyond  the  bounds  of  possibility.  We  have  known  cases 
where  it  was  almost  a  matter  of  life  or  death,  that  a  lady 
should  have  skill  and  courage  to  harness  a  horse  and  hasten 
for  help.  These  cases  may  be  rare ;  yet  if  they  come  but 
once  in  a  lifetime,  is  not  the  lesson  worth  the  learning  1  If 
you  were  driving  a  team  ŌĆö a  very  desirable  accomplisluii.ent 
for  any  young  lady ŌĆö  and  the  harness  should  break  or  be- 
come unfastened,  ought  you  not,  for  your  own  safety,  to 
know  how  to  repair  the  mischief?  Every  girl  should  early 
learn  how  each  part  of  the  harness  must  be  adjusted,  else 
the  pleasure  and  independence  of  being  able  to  drive  when 
older  will  be  attended  with  much  risk,  and  often  with  fatal 
consequences.  Youth  ŌĆö  early  childhood  ŌĆö  is  the  time  to 
secure  this  knowledge,  that  you  may  be  prepared  to  use  it 
with  confidence  and  self-control  when  needed.  Even  if  it  is 
never  needed  in  later  life,  knowing  how  will  not  injure  any 
one. 


112      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

XXVIIL 

STEALING  SERVANTS. 

IJf  The  Christian  Union  a  while  ago,  "  Laicus "  gives 
the  history  of  a  transaction  between  two  neighbors,  in 
which  he  thinks  the  indignation  manifested  by  one  of  the 
parties  was  uncalled  for,  and  her  objection  to  the  proceeding 
of  the  other  "  but  a  relic  of  the  old-time  slave  system."  The 
case  given  was  in  this  wise. 

Mrs.  Potiphar,  it  seems,  "  picks  up  a  little  girl  in  New 
York,  and  goes  through  aU  the  trouble,  discomfort,  and  anx- 
iety of  teaching  her,  until  she  becomes,  at  last,  a  very  useful 
and  efficient  servant."  Those  who  have  undertaken  the  train- 
ing of  young  girls,  not  their  own,  will  agree  that  Mrs.  Poti- 
phar's  task  was  not  an  enviable  one,  and  that  the  girl  owed  her 
a  debt  of  gratitude,  which  faithful,  willing  service  alone  could 
pay.  As  the  child  improved  under  this  training,  wages  were 
given,  until  after  five  years'  education  she  received  ten  doUars 
a  month.  Mrs.  Potiphar,  appreciating  the  good  quahties  the 
girl  had  developed,  failed  not  to  give  her  ample  praise  ;  said 
she  was  "  worth  her  weight  in  gold,"  an  expression  very 
common,  yet  not  usually  taken  literally  ;  but  she  did  not  in- 
crease her  wages.  It  may  have  been  that  she  gave  all  that  the 
work  demanded  of  her  was  worth,  or  all  that  she  could  afford 
to  give  ;  it  matters  not  which ;  it  is  no  evidence,  however, 
that  she  wished  to  defraud  the  girl  of  her  just  dues ;  it  ar- 
gues no  injustice  on  Mrs.  Potiphar's  part.  But  good  friends, 
kind  neighbors,  behind  her  back,  said  it  was  a  shame  to  pay 
Sophia  so  little ;  whUe  to  the  lady's  face,  however,  they  gave 
smiles  and  congratulations  "  upon  her  good  luck."  Ah,  what 
a  pity  that  gossiping,  meddling,  and  backbiting  should  be 


STEALING  SERVANTS.  113 

fouiid  in  this  beautiful  world  of  ours.  How  much  trouble 
and  mischief  these  vices  have  caused  !  Much  of  the  discom- 
fort and  disturbance  in  our  households  springs  from  this  evil 
spirit,  making  servants  fickle  and  unfaithful,  and  their  mis- 
tresses' life  a  burden.  And  it  is  all  so  needless !  There  is 
little  fear,  even  when  not  tampered  with,  that  girls  will  re- 
main long  on  Low  wages,  unless  the  privileges  and  kind  care 
bestowed  upon  them  are  of  more  value  than  larger  pay,  and 
they  have  the  good  sense  so  to  understand  it.  Every  girl 
has  a  perfect  right  to  seek  the  highest  remuneration,  and  so 
that  she  gives  her  present  employer  reasonable  notice,  to  en- 
able her  to  secure  other  assistance,  or  to  ofl'er  her  larger 
wages,  however  great  the  disappointment  to  the  lady  may  be, 
the  girl  has  acted  honorably  and  is  worthy  of  no  censure. 
^But  in  the  case  cited  by  "  Laicus,"  Mrs.  Chessleburg's  course 
is  so  repugnant,  so  foreign  to  all  our  ideas  of  honor,  that  we 
shoid.d  hope  there  was  some  mistake  in  print,  did  we  not 
know  such  acts  are  of  daily  occurrence. 

Mrs.  Potiphar  has  an  excellent  waiting-maid,  just  what 
Mrs.  Chessleburg  wants.  Mrs.  Chessleburg  is  much  exer- 
cised in  her  mind  because  Mrs.  Potiphar  gives  the  poor  girl 
such  low  wages. 

*'  She  is  well  worth  fourteen  dollars  a  month  to  me,  if  she 
is  worth  a  penny."  Four  dollars  extra  would  be  quite  an 
addition  to  Sophia's  income.  To  be  sure  it  would.  So  her 
nurse-girl  goes  confidentially  {privately  we  presume  that 
means)  and  tells  Sophia  that  Mrs.  Chessleburg  will  give  her 
fourteen  dollars  a  month  if  she  will  leave  the  lady,  who,  five 
years  ago,  "  picked  her  up  in  N'ew  York,"  and  has  taught  her, 
during  these  years,  to  be  such  a  desirable  servant.  The  girl 
goes,  of  course.  Mrs.  Potiphar  thinks  it  mean  "  to  steal  her 
girl  away  in  that  style."  So  do  we.  Is  it  strange  that  we 
think  Mrs.  Chessleburg's  desire  to  right  the  girl's  supposed 
wrongs  had  its  oricHn  less  in  real  benevolence  than  in  the 


114      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

selfish  anxiety  to  secure  a  valuable  servant  for  herself  1  We 
certainly  must,  notwithstanding  "  Laicus's  "  perplexity,  join 
with  the  ladies  in  thinking  Mrs.  Chessleburg's  proceeding 
highly  objectionable,  and  are  confident  employees  as  well  as 
employers  will  agree  in  this  matter. 

We  read  the  article  in  question  to  the  superintendent  of 
our  farm,  and  said,  "  How  does  this  strike  you  1  How 
shall  we  answer  this  question  1  If  the  girl's  work  was  worth 
more  than  ten  doUars,  was  it  not  right  that  she  should  have 

"  Yes  ;  but  I  should  n't  think  that  was  the  right  way  for 
a  lady  to  do  1  Why  did  n't  she  go  to  the  girl's  mistress,  in- 
stead of  sending  her  nursemaid  to  the  girl  privately  1  I 
don't  think  any  lady  would  do  such  a  thing." 

"  Well !  I  think  you  are  right  about  house  servants.  But. 
on  the  farm,  in  your  position,  for  instance,  as  foreman,  there 
is  some  difference,  is  there  not  ]  Supposing  some  gentleman 
should  offer  you  more  than  we  do,  what  would  you  think  of 
that?" 

"  That  he  was  no  gentleman.  I  don't  see  the  difference. 
If  he  wished  to  make  any  such  offer,  he  should  go  to  my  em- 
ployer and  state  the  case,  but  not  to  me." 

"  But  you  are  not  bound  to  stay  with  us.  If  you  can  bet- 
ter yourself,  you  have  a  perfect  right  to  do  so.  You  are  a 
free  man." 

"  Yes,  I  know  that ;  but  I  think  there  should  be  some 
honor,  if  there  is  no  law,  about  such  things  ;  and  I  don't  think 
a  gentleman  acts  honorably  who  tempts  a  man  with  offers  of 
higher  wages  to  leave  his  employer's  service.  Let  him  go, 
like  a  man,  to  the  proprietor  of  the  work  himself." 

"  Maggie,"  said  we  afterward,  "  if  a  lady  should  send  one 
of  her  girls  to  you  with  an  offer  for  more  wages  than  I  give, 
what  would  you  thinl?:  of  it  1 " 

"  0,  I  've  had  that  trick  tried  on  me,  ma'am  !     ISTo  lad^ 


STEALING  SERVANTS.  115 

would  do  it,  and  I  'd  net  risk  living  with  any  one  who  would 
connive  at  such  a  mean  thing." 

"  Why,  what  Avould  you  have  her  do  1 " 

"  Come  right  to  yer,  ma'am,  or  advertise.  Sure  the  papers 
are  open  to  any  one  who  chooses  to  advertise." 

Now,  this  subject  appears  too  clear  for  any  question  of 
right  or  wrong,  lil^erty  or  slavery.  The  same  course  ŌĆö  open 
and  ahove-board  ŌĆö  should  be  plain  to  both  employer  and 
employe.  Among  business  men  this  law  of  honor  is  fully 
understood.  The  amount  of  wages  in  all  employments  is 
well  defined.  Custom  fixes  the  prices  for  specified  labor.  It 
is  those  who  offer  beyond  the  accepted  rates  who  cause  most 
of  the  trouble  experienced  in  all  classes  of  labor. 

A  manufacturer  engages  a  certain  number  of  men  to  work 
in  his  mill.  He  offers  and  they  accept  the  regular  rates  of 
payment.  A  neighboring  manufacturer  is  short  of  hands,  and 
privately  goes  to  these  men,  bribing  them,  for  it  is  nothing 
short  of  a  bribe,  Avith  offers  of  higher  wages  to  leave  their 
present  work  and  come  to  him.  If  their  ideas  of  honor  are 
no  higher  than  his  own,  they  wiU  probably  accept  the  bribe, 
and  their  first  employer's  mills  must  stand  idle  until  he  can 
secure  others  to  fiU  their  places.  Would  you  not  call  this 
dishonorable  1  This  is  acceded  to  in  the  outdoor  world, 
among  merchants,  mechanics,  manufacturers,  and  farmers. 
But  how  much  more  sacred,  how  much  stronger,  should  this 
code  of  honor  be  to  us,  in  the  family  ! 

If  we  learn  that  a  girl  has  ''  given  warning  "  to  her  em- 
ployer of  her  intention  to  leave,  we  have  a  perfect  right  to 
try  and  secure  her  ;  but  to  avoid  the  least  appearance  of  evil, 
to  do  trvdy  "  as  we  would  be  done  by,"  we  should  think  it 
but  wise  and  just  to  go  first  to  the  lady  and  signify  our 
wishes,  making  such  inquiries  as  may  be  needed.  In  the  case 
giA'en  by  "  Laicus,"  however,  the  nurse-maid  is  sent,  and 
offers  of  higher  wages  given  through  her.    The  girl  is  boiight. 


116      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

We  cannot  think  it  acting  honorably  by  the  mistress  or 
kindly  by  the  maid.  If  tempted  once  to  act  secretly,  she 
probably  can  be  again,  and  from  a  useful,  reliable  servant 
may  become  one  on  whom  there  can  be  no  dependence. 

If  this  mode  of  securing  assistance  is  accepted  as  a  correct 
and  honorable  practice,  no  one  is  safe.  In  every  department 
we  shall  be  at  the  mercy  of  the  selfish  and  unscrupulous. 

The  laborer  is  evidently  worthy  of  his  hire,  and  in  this 
country  no  class  of  people  are  likely  to  remain  long  in  igno- 
rance of  the  price  they  can  command,  or  to  estimate  their 
ability  at  too  low  a  rate. 

We  object  to  no  one's  obtaining  the  full  value  for  his 
work,  but  claim  that  there  should  be  no  meddling,  no  under- 
hand work  to  buy  servants  or  laborers  from  another,  by  the 
private  offer  of  larger  wages.  Advertising  is  open  to  all,  and 
brmgs  the  needed  help  to  you ;  but  if  you  do  not  choose 
that  mode  of  supplying  yourselves  with  laborers,  then  let  the 
employer  be  applied  to,  and  if  you  can  give  his  or  her  ser- 
vants better  terms  than  they  now  receive,  there  are  not  many 
who  will  not  advise  them  to  accept  the  offer.  We  do  not 
think  that  ladies  enact  any  such  law,  as  that  "  no  servant 
shaU  be  offered  a  better  post  than  the  one  now  occupied,  so 
long  as  he  or  she  remains  in  it  "  ;  but  we  do  claim  that  the 
good  old  nile  should  be  as  fully  recognized  in  deahng  with 
a  neighbor's  servant  as  in  everything  else,  namely,  "  Do  unto 
others  as  ye  would  that  others  should  do  unto  you." 


FALL  CLEANING.  117 

XXIX. 

FALL  CLEANING. 

THE  summer  is  over  and  gone  ;  cold  nights  and  morn- 
ings have  so  frightened  and  subdued  the  flies,  that  it  is 
easy  to  hunt  them  from  the  house,  and  hy  a  little  extra 
watchful]  less  prevent  their  gaining  possession  again.  The 
sun,  still  quite  warm  and  summer-like  in  the  middle  of  the 
day,  tempts  them  out  from  their  hiding-places,  and  they  will 
swarm  in  at  open  doors  and  windows,  if  unprotected  by  wire 
and  net  frames,  in  great  numbers.  Take  care  that  these  safe- 
guards are  doing  duty  whenever  windows  or  doors  are  opened 
for  ventilation  or  comfort,  else  the  skilKul  little  manoeuvrers 
will  soon  gain  access.  Drive  them  out  toward  night  into  the 
cool  evening  air.  A  few  really  cold  nights  will  free  you 
from  these  vexatious  intruders,  and  enable  you  to  commence 
fall  cleaning  in  peace  and  safety.  The  danger  always  is, 
that  this  part  of  fall  labor  will  be  undertaken  too  early. 
The  first  ten  or  twelve  days  of  September  are  usually  raw 
and  cold.  The  flies,  crawling  into  warm  nooks  and  corners, 
pretend  to  be  asleep.  The  housekeeper,  forgetting  the  ex- 
perience of  former  years,  hastens  to  get  out  scrub-cloths, 
brushes,  and  all  the  implements  of  house-cleaning.  Those 
Avhose  homes  are  in  the  city  hurry  back  Avith  the  first  pufi" 
of  cold  air,  believing  that  flies  and  heat  have  both  alike  de- 
parted for  the  season.  But  they  soon  learn  that  this  is  a 
great  mistake.  These  chilly,  cold  days  are  usually  followed 
by  ten  days  or  a  fortnight  as  warm  as  midsummer,  and  gen- 
erally quite  unhealthy.  Nothing  but  real  necessity  should 
tempt  any  to  leave  the  country  before  they  have  fuUy  en- 
joyed the  most  perfect  month  of  the  whole  year,  ŌĆö  October. 


118      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

But  whether  in  city  or  country,  those  who  attempt  to  do 
theii'  fall  cleaning  in  September  will  have  short-lived  satis- 
faction compared  with  the  comfort  derived  from  the  same 
work  in  October.  Flies,  spiders,  and  wasps,  if  not  harmless 
then,  are  at  least  so  far  disabled  as  to  be  easily  conquered, 
and  until  that  is  accomplished,  house-cleaning  on  a  large  scale 
is  wasted  labor. 

The  first  thing  to  be  done,  preparatory  to  house-cleaning, 
is  to  have  aU  the  chimneys  thoroughly  swept,  and  the  fur- 
nace, range,  and  grate  flues,  not  only  perfectly  cleaned  from 
soot,  but  examined  by  a  competent  workman ;  especially  is 
this  needful  if  the  house  has  been  closed  or  only  partially 
used  during  the  summer.  Before  real  winter  weather  comes, 
everything  of  this  kind  should  be  in  perfect  order. 

Ha'\-3  the  furnace-grate  examined,  as  it  may  have  been 
corroded  by  rust  while  unused,  or  so  far  burned  out  that,  if 
neglected,  some  cold  morning  when  a  bright  glowing  fire 
is  most  needed  it  may  break  down  and  let  your  fire  out.  It 
will  not  be  pleasant  to  sit  shivering  while  the  old  grate  is 
being  mended  or  a  new  one  fitted.  The  range-grate  and  fire- 
bricks must  also  be  looked  after  and  repaired  for  winter  use. 
A  little  attention  now  will  save  much  expense  and  discom- 
fort later  in  the  season. 

If  carpenters'  or  masons'  work,  whitewashing,  painting, 
glazing,  or  plumbing  is  needed,  it  should  all  be  done  before 
any  cleaning  is  attempted.  If  left  till  afterward,  tliis  kind 
of  work  is  a  great  terror  to  housekeepers.  To  secure  season- 
able attention  to  all  these  matters,  it  is  essential  that  the 
mechanics  who  are  needed  should  be  engaged  some  weeks  in 
advance ;  but  remember  that  such  workmen  are,  unfortun- 
ately, not  as  good  in  keeping  promises  as  in  breaking  them  ; 
therefore  watch  closely,  and  hold  them  to  their  agreement. 
This  habit  of  promising  more  than  can  be  performed  is  a 
very  pernicious  one,  and  in  the  end  most  unj)rofitable.     Me- 


FALL  CLEANING.  119 

chanics  are  tempted  to  this  dishonorable  practice  by  anx- 
iety to  secure  a  good  job.  Knowing  the  great  demand  for 
labor,  they  imagine  if  they  promise  to  do  your  work  at  a 
given  time,  come  and  do  a  little,  then  go  to  some  one  else, 
leaving  your  work  half  finished,  then  back  to  you  again  for 
a  while,  ŌĆö  the  second  party  annoyed  by  the  same  vexatious 
delay,  ŌĆö  that  your  necessity  compels  you  to  endure  silently 
if  not  patiently.  You  may  submit  for  this  once,  but  never 
burn  your  fingers  twice  at  the  same  fire.  Let  it  once  be 
understood  that  employers  of  all  kinds  look  upon  a  broken 
promise  as  destroying  all  confidence,  and  that  they  will 
under  no  circumstances  give  a  promise-breaker  ar  second  op- 
portunity to  beguile  them,  and  this  great  trial  to  grace  and 
patience  would  soon  be  overcome. 

While  repairs  are  going  on,  bring  down  all  the  woolen  gar- 
ments, blankets,  furs,  or  pieces  of  carpeting  that  have  been 
stored  away  for  the  summer.  Take  them  out  on  the  grass- 
plat  under  your  clothes- line,  before  removing  the  wrappers, 
for  the  preparation  in  which  they  have  been  put  away  is  not 
very  pleasant  to  the  smell,  particularly  if  it  is  Poole's  pow- 
der, which  we  think  the  safest  as  weU  as  the  most  disagree- 
able. If  it  is  a  windy  day,  hang  all  on  the  clothes-line  for 
a  good  snapping  before  you  attempt  to  brush  them,  and  most 
of  the  poAvder  will  blow  off.  After  an  hour  or  two  in  sun 
and  wind,  brush  them  well  with  a  nice  whisk-broom,  and, 
when  done,  the  garments  and  blankets  may  be  put  in  their 
proper  places  and  the  pieces  of  carpeting  sewed  up  in  bag- 
ging or  canvas  or  put  into  a  spare  trunk.  They  will  need 
no  more  powder  till  spring,  if  carefully  stored  and  occasion- 
ally aired  through  the  winter. 

The  coal,  of  course,  you  had  put  into  the  cellar  last  spring, 
as  it  is  usually  cheaper  about  May  than  in  the  fall.  The 
ashes  and  soot  having  been  removed,  the  flues,  furnace,  and 
grates  all  in  order,  the  house  should  now  be  swept  from  the 


120      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

attic  to  the  cellar.  Ingrain  and  three-ply  carpets  ought  to 
be  taken  up  every  year,  unless  in  rooms  but  little  used,  and 
after  being  well  shaken  or  taken  to  the  carpet-shaking  mill, 
they  should  be  laid  out  of  the  way  till  the  room  from  which 
they  were  taken  is  cleaned.  Brussels,  Wiltons,  Axministers, 
and  all  the  heavier  carpets  should  not  be  raised  oftener  than 
every  three  years.  Very  little  dust  sifts  tlirough  such  fabrics, 
and  careful  sweeping  and  the  use  of  a  good  "  carpet-sweeper  " 
will  preserve  them  from  all  harm.  In  sweeping,  preparatory 
to  cleaning,  it  is  well  to  draw  the  tacks  in  the  corners  and 
turn  such  heaA'^y  carpets  back,  so  that  with  a  whisk-broom  any 
dirt  that  may  have  settled  there  can  be  easily  removed.  It 
is  but  little  work,  and  the  corners  can  be  readily  tacked 
down  again. 

When  the  sweeping  is  all  done,  a  most  thorough  dusting 
is  the  next  operation,  so  that  wood-work,  walls,  and  gas- 
brackets may  be  free  from  loose  dirt  before  water  is  used. 
The  paint  is  much  easier  cleaned  after  this  than  if  the  dust 
were  allowed  to  remain  and  be  washed  off.  Some  recommend 
the  latter  to  save  time.     We  think  it  wastes  time. 

The  walls  should  be  dusted  with  a  long-handled  feather- 
duster,  then  with  a  clean  dry  cloth  pinned  smoothly  over  a 
clean  broom  ;  wipe  them  down  evenly,  beginning  at  the  top 
and  passing  in  a  straight  line,  "  by  a  tliread  "  as  a  seamstress 
would  say,  to  the  bottom,  changing  the  cloth  as  it  becomes 
soiled.  I^^ext  remove  all  chimneys  and  shades  from  the 
chandeliers  and  gas-burners  ;  wash  clean,  dry  and  polish 
Avith  a  soft  linen  towel,  and  then  with  chamois-skin,  and  put 
them  into  a  closet  till  the  room  is  cleaned.  N"ow  with  a 
cloth,  wrung  from  weak,  hot  suds,  wipe  off  the  brackets  and 
chandeliers,  and  rub  dry  with  chamois-skin.  Draw  a  coarse 
linen  thread,  double,  through  the  opening  in  the  tip  of  aU 
the  gas-burners  to  remove  any  dust  that  may  have  settled  in 
them  while  unused.     This  done,  if  you  have  two   or  three 


FALL   CLEANING.  121 

hands  at  work,  the  cleaning  may  be  so  divided  as  to  be  done 
quite  expeditiously  ;  let  one  wash  the  windows  while  another 
cleans  the  paint.  The  windows,  if  long  unused,  need  to  be 
well  washed  in  warm  suds,  into  which  a  little  spirits  of  am- 
monia have  been  poured,  ŌĆö  two  teaspoonfuls  to  half  a  bucket 
of  suds ;  then  well  rinsed  in  clear  water,  wiped  dry,  and  pol- 
ished with  chamois-skin.  This  same  proportion  of  suds  and 
ammonia  will  also  clean  paint  very  easily,  and  without  injury 
to  the  hands.  It  is  good  for  cleaning  marble  slabs  and  man- 
tles. The  plated  door-handles,  bell-pulls,  etc.,  come  next  in 
order  for  cleaning  ;  and  here,  if  a  piece  of  oil-cloth  is  cut  to 
slip  over  each,  so  that  the  walls  may  not  be  tarnished,  the 
hot  suds  and  ammonia  will  prove  very  effective.  A  piece  of 
old  carpet  or  drugget  shoidd  be  laid  down  as  you  clean  win- 
dows, paint,  or  plated  ware,  if  the  carpet  is  down,  and  moved 
from  one  spot  to  another  as  you  go  on. 

Now  all  is  ready  to  put  the  last  touch  to  tlie  room. 
Wring  a  clean  cloth  from  some  warm,  clear  water,  in  which 
a  little  alum  or  salt  has  been  dissolved,  and  wipe  hard  each 
breadth  of  the  carpet,  rubbing  straight  down  the  nap. 
Wring  out  the  cloth  often,  to  rinse  off  all  the  dust,  and 
change  the  water  if  it  looks  very  dingy.  This  brings  up  the 
nap  and  gives  a  new  and  fresh  look  to  carpets  of  all  kinds ; 
only  be  sure  that  the  cloth  is  not  so  wet  as  to  drip.  Leave 
the  windows  open  when  the  carpet  is  finished,  and  shut  the 
doors  till  it  is  thoroughly  dried  before  bringing  in  what  fur- 
niture was  moved  out  to  clean  the  room. 


122      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

XXX. 

FASHIONABLE  DRESS. 

"TT'T'E  are  often  asked  why  we  do  not  speak  out  plainly, 
V  V  in  the  way  of  counsel  and  reproof,  about  the  absurd- 
ities of  fashionable  dress,  now  so  apparent?  What  good 
would  it  do  1  Almost  every  paper  has  spoken  plainly,  or 
hinted  ŌĆö  the  worst  kind  of  speaking,  however  unmistakable 
ŌĆö  on  this  subject,  and  Avhat  is  the  result  1  Week  by  week 
the  fashion-plates  are  increasingly  monstrous,  until  at  last 
we  are  uncertain  whether  it  is  a  bona  fide  fashion  plate  we  are 
looking  at  or  "  Punch  "  and  "  The  Budget  of  Fun."  Neither 
could  take  greater  liberties  or  more  atrociously  caricature 
"  the  human  form  divine."  And,  what  would  be  very  amus- 
ing if  the  weakness  did  not  excite  so  much  pity,  those  who 
urge  us  to  contribute  our  mite  toward  a  reform,  a  more 
Christian  mode  of  dress,  are  themselves  marvellous  struct- 
ures, ŌĆö  a  pile,  composed  of  frizzed,  braided,  curled,  and  puffed 
hair,  under  which  a  small,  delicate  face  appears ;  a  dress 
fringed,  flounced,  puffed,  and  trailing,  with  hoops  and  pan- 
niers protruding  like  a  dromedary's  hump ;  and  all  this  mis- 
erable deformity  borne  about  on  high  heels  and  the  tips  of 
the  toes,  the  discomfort  and  pain  of  such  unnatural  locomo- 
tion accepted  and  endured  because  it  is  the  fashion.  Yet 
these  fair  inquirers  appeared  wholly  unconscious  that  their 
own  disfigurement  was  a  stronger  appeal  for  aid  than  any 
words  could  have  been. 

Why  not  begin  this  reform  in  your  own  dress  1  Brush 
your  hair  smoothly,  and  give  us  the  satisfaction  of  once 
more  seeing  what  the  head  is,  as  God  made  it ;  take  off  yards 
of  silk,  lace,  and  fringe,  and  show  us  your  natural,  graceful 


FASHIONABLE  DRESS.  123 

figure.  You  who  move  in  what  is  called  fashionable  society- 
can  do  more  by  such  independence  than  all  that  can  be  writ- 
ten. Try  one  season,  and  mark  the  change  you  would  effect. 
"  0,  we  could  n't  think  of  such  a  thing !  '  As  well  be  out 
of  the  world  as  out  of  fashion,'  you  know.  It  would  make 
us  so  very  conspicuous  by  our  singularity.  We  think  it 
woidd  not  be  modest  to  take  such  a  stand.  No  one  person 
can  effect  the  change  :   it  must  be  simultaneous." 

Ah,  had  all  reformers  reasoned  so,  what  woidd  now  be  the 
condition  of  the  civilized  world  !  But  Fashion  is  a  tyrant ; 
and  we  fear  volumes  written  on  the  evils  which  she  brings  will 
do  little  good  until  women  have  learned  to  defy  her.  A  few 
in  every  age  have  done  valiantly  in  their  attempts  to  dethrone 
her,  but  she  changes  so  often,  and  so  abruptly  and  entirely, 
it  is  difficult  to  keep  track  of  her.  As  far  back  as  we  can 
search,  the  whirligig  of  fashion  has  been  in  perpetual  mo- 
tion, unceasing  in  its  changes.  The  advice  and  admonition 
of  age  and  experience  have  little  influence  towards  checking 
this  long-established  tyranny.  The  old  look  sadly  upon  the 
vagaries  of  the  young ;  but  if  they  glance  back  to  their  own 
early  days,  would  they  not  recall  equal  absurdities  in  the 
fashions  of  that  period,  or  on  a  moment's  reflection,  perhaps, 
even  the  dress  and  style  to  which  they  still  pertinaciously 
adhere  may  be  liable  to  the  same  criticism  ] 

We  vividly  remember  the  look  of  dissatisfaction  on  our 
grandmother's  face  (a  dear  little  woman,  nearly  eighty  years 
old),  whose  keen  black  eyes  flashed  ominously  as  we  came 
before  her  for  inspection,  dressed  for  our  first  party.  We 
stood,  at  fourteen,  a  fidl  head  the  taller,  but  were  abashed  at 
the  dignified  air  of  authority  with  which  she  descanted  on  the 
ridiculousness  of  our  attire.  A  very  narrow  skirt,  with  a 
few  gathers  in  the  back,  three  small  pleats  on  each  side,  ŌĆö  it 
took  but  six  or  seven  yards  then  for  a  dress,  ŌĆö  a  full  waist, 
with  a  narrow  band  round  the  neck  like  a  baby's  slip,  and 


124      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

the  belt  almost  under  the  arms;  a  large  lace  "Vandyke," 
or  cape,  over  the  shoulders ;  the  hair  combed  high  on  the 
top  of  the  head  and  tightly  tied,  and  the  length  twisted  into 
a  knot  or  bow,  and  kept  in  place  by  a  big  tortoise-shell 
comb,  the  top  of  it  fuU  three  inches  high  and  six  or  seven 
inches  round ;  and  this  placed  back  of  the  hair.  Our  first 
high-topped  comb  !  What  a  wonderful  work  of  art  it  was 
in  our  eyes  !  And  the  dress  ŌĆö  our  first  silk  ŌĆö  of  changeable 
hues,  like  the  silks  which  are  now  coming  again  into  fash- 
ion, ŌĆö  how  styHsh  it  did  look  !  We  thought  every  one  must 
recognize  its  elegance.  Yet  here  was  this  "  httle  grandma," 
whose  judgment,  next  to  our  mother's,  was  infallible,  look- 
ing with  disdain  upon  it,  and  turning  our  whole  outfit  into 
ridicule  !  It  was  heartbreaking  !  And  for  our  first  party  ! 
Fourteen  was  very  young  to  go  to  parties  in  those  days,  but, 
being  tall  for  our  age,  we  were  invited  by  mistake  we  pre- 
sume. At  the  present  time  young  ladies  of  tliree  and  four 
send  out  and  receive  their  cards,  and  with  gloves  and  fans, 
frizzled  hair,  and  flounced  dresses,  mimic  the  affectation  and 
absurdities  of  their  elders.  We  have  no  sweet,  simple 
childhood  any  longer. 

But  how  was  our  revered  critic  attired  %  The  soft,  white 
hair,  still  quite  abundant,  was  brushed  straight  over  from  the 
brow,  not  tied  on  top,  but  rolled  as  tightly  as  it  could  be 
drawn  over  what  was  then  called  a  piUow,  ŌĆö now  it  woidd 
be,  we  presume,  a  rat,  ŌĆö  and  fastened  on  the  top  of  the 
head  by  two  long  silver  pins  with  arrow-heads  ;  a  spotless 
white  mull  cap  with  a  very  high  crown  and  deep  frill  was 
put  on  over  this  pillow  and  tied  with  a  broad  black  satin 
ribbon  in  a  bow  on  top  ;  a  string  of  gold  beads,  a  square  of 
white  lace  folded  over  the  shoulders  and  crossed  in  pleats  in 
front,  under  the  dress  of  heavy  black  satin ;  the  waist  of 
said  dress  made  long  down  to  the  hips,  with  a  point  before 
and  behind,  the  skirt  not  trailed  but  immensely  full ;  very 


FASHIONABLE   DRESS.  125 

high-heeled  slippers  ;  and  on  her  arm  a  large  black  satin  bag, 
or  reticule,  embroidered  with  white  beads,  in  which  was  the 
ever-present  knitting-work,  completed  the  costume.  And 
this  queerly  dressed  little  grandmother  scoffed  at  our  newer 
style  as  being  the  height  of  absurdity.  Her  dress  appeared 
appropriate  to  her,  because  we  had  never  seen  her  otherwise 
attired ;  but  with  all  affectionate  deference  to  her  superior 
wisdom,  we  thought  it  very  ugly,  and  would  have  sln'unk  in 
disgust  from  wearing  it  ovirselves  :  and  doubtless  our  new 
dress  in  which  we  then  rejoiced  would  strike  our  grand- 
children now  as  equally  undesirable. 

So  fashion  changes,  and  words  of  expostulation  are 
wasted.  But  in  this  age  of  improvement,  when  we  turn  our 
backs  on  the  things  of  old  while  something  new  is  daily 
being  developed  or  invented,  the  wonder  is,  that  in  the 
realms  of  Fashion  we  see  so  little  purely  original.  Like  a 
poor  horse  in  a  treadmill,  she  goes  the  same  circuit,  and 
about  every  fifty  years  she  finds  the  end,  and  is  compelled  to 
return  and  reproduce,  with  some  strange  additions,  but  few 
improvements,  the  styles  our  grandmothers  and  great-grand- 
mothers wore.  The  high  heels,  hoops,  trains,  and  panniers  of 
to-day  are  but  the  renewal  of  the  fashions  of  a  semi-barbarous 
age,  which,  once  buried,  shoiild  never  have  been  revived. 

Addison,  in  many  of  his  writings  (see  particularly  papers 
98  and  127  in  the  "  Spectator"),  severely  criticises  the  pre- 
vailing fashions  of  his  day.  Many  of  these  same  deformities 
our  better  instructed  women  have  for  a  year  or  two  past  fool- 
ishly reproduced.  We  may  not  quote  his  words,  because  the 
homely  language  of  that  period  would  shock  our  greater 
refinement,  (although  if  it  could  be  arranged  for  opera  or 
theatre,  his  wholesome  counsels  might  be  listened  to  in  public 
without  a  blush  !). 

There  is  much  to  be  said,  aside  from  the  absurdity  of  the 
style,  and  its  destruction  of  all  grace  and  beauty,  of  the 


126      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

great  extravagance  which  must  attend  the  present  fashions, 
breaking  up  many  homes  and  alienating  true  love ;  and  the 
permanent  injury  done  to  health,  subjecting  its  devotees  to 
long  years,  perhaps,  of  discomfort  and  lingering  sufferings 
or  an  early  grave. 


XXXI. 

LESSONS   BY   THE   WAYSIDE. 

LOVE  lightens  labor,  and  crowns  Care  with  rosy  gar- 
lands which  beautify  her  rugged  and  repeUant  fea- 
tures. But  when  those  whose  presence  makes  labor  easy  are 
absent,  Care  is  more  likely  to  become  a  hard  taskmaster.  Our 
house  being  thus  left  unto  us  desolate,  for  a  few  days,  we 
rebel,  and  have  run  away. 

Seated  all  alone  in  one  of  those  cozy  little  rooms  in  the 
"  palace-cars,"  on  the  banks  of  the  Hudson,  we  will  try  for 
once  how  it  feels  to  be  free  from  care,  and  give  ourselves  up 
to  the  fuU  enjoyment  of  the  position.  How  beautiful  is  the 
scenery  through  which  we  are  passing  !  Each  one  thinks  his 
own  native  land,  his  own  mountains  and  rivers,  the  finest  in 
the  world.  This  feeling  often  grows  into  a  ludicrous  weak- 
ness ;  but  we  are  confident  that  our  noble  Hudson  must  be 
acknowledged  by  aU  as  ranking  among  the  first. 

"  Where  will  you  find  in  foreign  land 
So  sweet  a  spot,  so  bold  a  strand  ? " 

In  spring-time,  when  every  bush  and  tree  is  tipped  with 

delicate  green,  from  the  banks  of  the  river  to  the  highest 

point  that  overlooks  it,  we  call  it  more  lovely  than  at  any  other 

season  of  the  year.     But  in  summer,  when  the  grass  is  just 

ready  for  the  scythe,  and  blossoms  of  fruit  hang  from  every 

bough,  we  say  this  surpasses  the  spring.     In  the  early  fall. 


LESSONS   BY  THE   WAYSIDE.  127 

the  orchards  scattered  all  along  the  river-side,  laden  with  the 
ripening  fruit,  in  each  variety  of  green,  red,  gold,  or  russet, 
and  the  woods  on  either  side  brilliant  with  every  shade  of 
color,  add  another  charm  to  the  wondrous  beauty  of  the 
scenery.     And  now,  in  this  later  autumn,  as  we  see  the 

"  Leaves  around  us  falling, 
Dry  and  withered,  to  the  ground,"  ŌĆö 

the  lights  and  shadows  on  the  mountains,  the  golden  hues 
exchanged  for  deeper  russet,  the  dark  red  of  the  Ampelopsis 
mingling  with  the  rich  color  of  the  evergreens  that  cover 
the  banks,  ŌĆö  all  caught  by  the  flashing  river,  and  thrown 
back  in  broken  and  fantastic  reflection,  ŌĆö  call  for  increasing 
admiration  ;  and  midwinter,  when  the  ground  is  white  with 
snow,  and  the  trees  are  strung  with  diamonds,  will  only  fur- 
nish stronger  cords  to  hold  us  steadfast  to  our  allegiance. 
There  is  not  "  half  a  kiss  to  choose"  between  the  seasons  on 
the  banks  of  our  glorious  Hudson.  We  love  it  always  and 
in  all  its  varied  changes. 

And  this  is  rest  for  the  weary  !  How  beautifully  quiet 
the  pretty  villages,  nested  in  among  the  mountains  or  scat- 
tered along  the  banks,  appear !  Is  it  possible  that  sickness 
or  sorrow,  heartaches  or  envyings,  fierce  passions  or  corroding 
cares,  can  find  a  harbor  near  this  tranquil  river  1  It  must  be 
so,  no  doubt ;  but  as  Ave  fly  quickly  past,  and  cannot  see  it, 
what  is  it  all  to  us  1  Why  trouble  ourselves  with  the  thought 
of  sorrows  which  we  can  neither  alleviate  nor  prevent  1 

Ah  !  we  may  leave  what  we  call  our  cares  far  behind  ;  but 
we  cannot  shut  our  eyes  to  the  fact  that  sin,  and  therefore 
sorrow,  is  all  about  us,  as  truly  in  the  restful  solitude  of 
the  little  niche  we  for  a  few  hours  occupy,  as  in  the  weary 
round  of  busy  life.  Out  of  sight,  but  almost  within  reach 
of  our  hand,  there  is  a  sick  child.  We  hear  its  feeble  cry, 
and  think,  from  the  sound,  it  must  be  quite  young,  and 
nearly  worn  out  with  suffering.     The  mother,  no  doubt,  ten- 


128      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

clerly  loves  her  child,  yet  long  days  of  watching  and  sleepless 
nights  have  taxed  her  strength  to  the  utmost,  and  exhausted 
her  patience.  Sharp  and  irritable  words  are  spoken,  and  as 
we  hear  the  little  one,  through  the  slight  partition  that  sep- 
arates us,  turn  restlessly  from  side  to  side,  unable  to  hnd  an 
easy  spot,  yet  constantly  longing  for  change,  we  knoAv  that  it 
is  not  gently  placed  on  a  cooler  pillow,  or  taken  to  the 
mother's  arms,  ŌĆö  gathered  to  her  bosom,  and  soothed  with 
loving  words.  But  instead  we  hear,  "  0  dear  !  what  a  tor- 
ment !  I  am  tired  to  death  !  Can't  you  lie  stiU  one  minute  1 " 
How  these  tones  make  our  heart  quiver !  ]^o  doubt  she  is 
very  weary,  and  perhaps  full  of  pain  herself ;  but  with  each 
peevish,  complaining  word  uttered  over  that  frail  little  blos- 
som, she  is  planting 

"  Thorns,  not  roses,  for  her  reaping,  by  and  by." 
If  she  knew  that  in  a  few  days,  perhaps,  her  babe  would  be 
forever  hid  from  her  eyes,  woidd  not  the  remaining  hours  of 
its  short  life  be  soothed,  regardless  of  her  own  pain,  by  the 
tenderest  love,  and  each  word  soft  and  sweet  as  the  notes  of 
the  cushat-dove  !  And  the  father,  in  full  health  and  vigor, 
why  does  he  not  relieve  the  weary,  overtasked  mother] 
Why  does  he  not  give  her  an  hour's  rest,  while  the  little  one 
finds  in  his  strong  arms  a  grateful  change  1  for  there  is  no 
cradle  so  soft  and  soothing  to  a  babe,  sick  or  well,  as  a  lov- 
ing father's  arms.  Instead  of  bearing  this  yoke  with  his 
wife,  we  hear  cross,  ungentlemanly,  unsympathetic  words  of 
complaint  addressed  to  her,  and  harsh  and  peevish  commands 
to  the  baby.  We  long  to  step  across  tlie  narrow  passage  that 
divides  us,  and,  taking  the  little  one  into  our  own  arms, 
kindly  tell  the  parents  what  seeds  they  are  solving ;  to  say 
to  them,  "  If  your  child  dies,  each  word  will  rise  up  in 
remembrance  against  you,  filling  your  hearts  with  anguish. 
If  it  lives,  you  are  sowing  poisonous  weeds,  which  will 
cause  you  lifelong  sorrow.     The  child  Avill  imitate  your  ex- 


LESSONS   BY  THE  WAYSIDE.  129 

ample,  practise  the  lessons  it  is  this  day  so  early  learning, 
and  teach  you  how  '  the  sins  of  the  parents  may  be  visited 
upon  the  children.'  Your  own  sins  and  failings  will  rise 
up  and  condemn  you  through  your  children."  Good-breed- 
ing and  etiquette  will  not  permit  us  to  go  to  them  with 
such  warning ;  yet  that  this  lesson  may  profit  some  one,  we 
send  it  to  the  friends  for  whom  we  write,  ŌĆö  the  young 
home-makers  as  well  as  the  young  housekeepers.  In  thus 
shaping  your  children's  future,  we  cannot  but  think  that  the 
father  will  be  as  richly  blessed  for  instilling  correct  principles, 
or  as  surely  condemned  for  wrong  training  and  example,  as 
the  mother.  We  know  this  is  treason  and  heresy,  if  judged 
by  the  prevailing  idea  that  the  mother,  far  more  than  the 
father,  is  responsible  for  the  principles  and  character  with 
which  the  child  takes  its  place  among  men  and  women. 

We  think  this  bad  doctrine.  The  parents  have  an  equal 
share  in  their  offspring,  and  should  not  hold  a  divided  re- 
sponsibility. 

The  nursing  and  care  in  the  main  is  doubtless  the  mother's 
office  ;  but  in  extreme  cases  it  should  be  borne  together. 
Being  naturally  more  with  the  child  in  early  infancy,  of 
course  the  mother  has  a  closer  intimacy.  But  in  a  well- 
organized,  loving  family,  you  will  note  that  while  the  love  is 
given  to  both  parents  alike,  when  questions  of  weight  arise, 
even  in  early  years,  the  child  turns  to  the  father  for  the  final 
word  which  shall  be  infallible.  The  mother's  gentler,  ten- 
derer tone  settles  every-day  questions,  but  there  is  strength 
and  authority  in  the  father's  voice  from  which  they  are  not 
often  tempted  to  appeal,  and  a  good  wife  and  mother  recog- 
nizes this  state.  It  is  a  sad  house  when  the  hearts  of  mother 
and  children  cannot,  with  love  and  pride,  accept  this  as  the 
natural  and  legitimate  ride  of  home  government  and  educa- 
tion. Even  if  the  mother  does  not,  in  her  own  judgment, 
accept  the  father's  decision  with  the  simple  faith  with  which 
6*  I 


130      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

the  cliild  receives  it,  it  is  no  evidence  of  tame  submission  if 
she  pleasantly  reserves  her  reasons  till  they  are  alone.  All 
argument  should  be  avoided  between  the  parents  before  the 
children  on  matters  connected  with  the  children's  interest. 
If  appealed  to,  let  the  reply  be  simply,  "  Father  knows  best," 
or,  "  Do  as  father  says."  By  this  you  strengthen  your  hus- 
band's hands,  and  nowise  compromise  your  own  conscience 
or  influence.  Then  when  opportunity  offers  compare  your 
views  and  give  your  reasons  for  dissent,  in  all  truth  and 
gentleness. 


XXXII. 

PAULINE  PRY. 

"T"T'T"E  come  this  week  to  spy  out  the  land,  ŌĆö  to  roam 
V  V  "up  stairs,  down  stairs,  and  in  the  lady's  chamber  "  ; 
to  creep  into  all  by  and  forbidden  places  ;  to  look  into  the 
bedrooms,  ransack  the  wardrobes,  peep  into  the  drawers,  it 
may  be  ;  overhaul  trunks  and  boxes,  perhaps  ;  in  short,  to 
take  all  manner  of  liberty  and  find  fault  to  our  heart's  con- 
tent. 

jSTow  we  slip,  unseen,  into  the  guest-chamber.  It  is  very 
pleasant  and  inviting ;  but  we  don't  think  the  bed  is  made 
up  very  neatly.  There  are  "  humps  "  in  the  mattress.  It 
has  not  been  turned  over  after  using,  and  well  beaten  and 
brought  to  a  good  square  surface.  The  sheets  and  blankets 
are  not  put  on  smoothly ;  the  fine,  Marseilles  spread  is  put 
on  unevenly,  giving  a  very  untidy  appearance  to  the  bed,  and 
bringing  so  large  a  proportion  of  the  bedclothes  on  one  side, 
so  as  to  render  it  difficult  to  turn  and  press  them  doAvn  prop- 
erly between  the  mattress  and  side-rail,  and  of  course  you 
cannot,  under  such   circumstances,  give  a   square,    regular 


PAULINE  PRY,  131 

shape  to  the  bed.  A  poorly  made  bed  spoils  the  appear- 
ance of  the  room,  however  elegant  the  rest  of  the  furnishing 
may  be. 

Pretty  sheet  and  pillow  tidies  are  of  great  assistance  in 
giving  a  fresh,  cheerful  air  to  a  bedroom.  If  sheets  and 
pillow  slips  are  neatly  tucked  and  nicely  ironed,  the  bed  will 
look  very  inviting  at  lirst,  if  well  made  ;  but  after  it  has  been 
once  used,  the  wrinkled,  tumbled  sheets  and  pillows  are  not  a 
pleasant  sight,  and  one  feels  well  repaid  for  the  little  trouble 
of  providing  tidies,  however  simple  ;  ruffled  and  embroidered, 
for  the  spare  chamber  if  you  please,  but  a  part  of  a  fine  old 
linen  sheet,  with  broad  hems  and  narrow  tucks,  starched  and 
well  ironed,  gives  a  very  neat  finish  to  the  family  bedrooms, 
and  with'  careful  folding  when  taken  off  at  night  will  not 
need  to  be  done  up  for  some  weeks. 

This  elegant  bureau  is  all  right,  as  far  as  it  is  furnished  ; 
but  the  guest-chamber  should  be  provided  with  all  the  lit- 
tle comforts  and  conveniences  which  a  lady  thinks  necessary 
in  her  own  room.  A  handsome  mat  or  tidy  over  the  mar- 
ble top,  and  little  mats  on  each  side  for  cologne-bottle  and 
watch- stand,  or  match-box  and  jewel-case,  and  a  pretty 
cushion,  will  add  much  to  the  appearance  of  this  bureau  ; 
or  if  nothing  more,  a  clean  damask  towel  spread  over  it  is,  if 
not  a  necessity,  at  least  a  great  safeguard  against  stains  on 
the  marble,  and  a  protection  from  the  disagreeable  chill  that 
creeps  over  one  when  resting  the  hand  or  arm  on  the  cold 
marble. 

A  good  comb  and  brush,  free  from  the  slightest  suspicion 
of  dirt,  a  boot-buttoner,  and  a  paper  of  pins,  ought  to  be 
on  the  bureau  or  in  the  drawer.  A  friend  often  remains 
over  night  unexpectedly,  and,  of  course  not  coming  pro- 
vided for  the  detention,  will  find  these  little  attentions  and 
conveniences  a  great  comfort,  and  duly  appreciate  your  kind 
and  thoughtful  care. 


132      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEICEEPERS. 

A  little  basket  of  willow  or  perforated  card,  embroidered 
with  some  neat  and  fanciful  design,  or  a  bead  or  muslin 
bag,  is  a  great  convenience  mucli  needed  to  be  hung  by  the 
side  of  the  bureau  or  under  the  gas,  to  hold  the  hair  from 
comb  or  brush,  burnt  matches,  bits  of  thread  or  paper. 
Some  such  receptacle  for  loose  bits  or  litter,  no  matter  how 
simple,  shoidd  be  near  every  bureau,  which  the  chambermaid 
must  empty  every  morning.  A  cuspidor,  or  wide-mouthed 
vase,  upon  the  floor,  is  more  elegant  than  a  scrap-basket,  but 
much  more  expensive. 

A  curtain  of  white  barred  muslin  or  Knen  is  needed  back 
of  the  washstand,  that  the  water,  in  washing,  may  not  soil 
the  paper  or  paint.  A  nail-brush  is  very  convenient,  we 
think  a  real  necessity,  for  every  bedroom.  Get  open,  up- 
right brush- holders,  rather  than  the  long  flat  ones  with  a 
cover,  for,  by  standing  the  tooth  and  nail  brushes  in  the 
upright  dish  they  drain  and  soon  dry  ;  but  if  laid  down  and 
covered  they  are  never  dry,  and  in  warm  weather  soon  be- 
come quite  off"ensively  musty. 

A  good  sponge  on  the  washstand  and  a  clean  doily  hung 
up  -with  the  towels  should  be  considered  as  indispensable  in 
any  well- furnished  spare  room  as  for  those  in  daily  use. 

Of  course  the  bureau  drawers  and  wardrobe  in  this  room 
will  be  left  as  nearly  unoccupied  as  possible  ;  so  we  will  not 
stop  to  open  them,  but  pass  into  other  rooms. 

"What  can  be  the  matter  in  this  young  lady's  chamber  % 
As  we  draw  near  the  bureau,  we  perceive  a  most  unpleasant 
smell.  We  must  take  the  liberty  of  opening  this  drawer. 
Whew  !  the  first  breath  reveals  the  mystery. 

The  brush  has  been  wet  to  brush  the  hair,  and  then 
without  drying  shut  from  the  air  in  the  drawer.  There  is 
no  smell  so  sickening  !  It  pervades  the  whole  bureau.  I^o 
perfume  can  overcome  it ;  and  by  using  the  brush,  damp  and 
uncleansed  day  after  day,  the  odor  is  carried  wherever  this 


PAULINE  PRY.  133 

careless  person  goes.  "We  have  sat  by  people  in  church  who 
have  used  such  a  brush,  and  could  hardly  remain  during  the 
service.  The  cause  is  unmistakable  and  cannot  be  con- 
cealed. If  no  other  means  can  destroy  this  bad  habit,  we 
would  recommend  that  any  one  so  thoughtless  shoidd  read 
an  article  we  saw  not  long  since  in  "  Harper's  Bazar  "  on  the 
vegetable  growth,  in  brush,  comb,  hair,  and  scalp,  produced 
by  wetting  the  brush  or  hair,  and  leaving  them  undried  or 
uncleansed.  We  think  once  reading  that  description  would 
be  sufficient  cure. 

The  hair-brush  should  be  combed  free  from  hair  or  dan- 
druff every  time  it  is  used,  and  laid  by  an  open  window  till 
well  aired  and  dried,  if  ladies  will  persist  in  wetting  the 
hair  or  brush.  A  brisk  movement  of  a  dry  brush  through 
the  hair  will  soon  create  a  fine  lustre  on  the  hair,  whereas 
wetting  diminishes  the  gloss  so  beautiful  in  well-kept  hair ; 
but  we  forget  that  that  is  an  old-fashioned  idea.  The  pro- 
gress of 'art  and  elegance  teaches  that  a  wilderness  of  fuzzy, 
frizzled  hair  is  now  the  crowning  beauty.  Tastes  differ, 
but  no  change  in  style  or  fashion  will  object,  we  hope,  to  a 
clean,  sweet  brush ;  and  to  secure  that  it  must  once  a  week, 
at  least,  be  well  washed  in  warm  soapsuds,  in  which  a  little 
soda  has  been  dissolved.  Soda  is  better  than  ammonia, 
as  it  cleanses  without  stimulating  the  vegetable  groxvth  spo- 
ken of  in  the  "  Bazar,"  to  which  we  just  referred.  Comb  the 
brush  while  washing,  that  the  suds  may  penetrate  to  the 
roots  of  the  bristles,  and  cleanse  every  part ;  then  rinse  in 
warm  water,  rub  dry  as  you  can,  and  put  in  the  window,  or 
by  the  fire  if  the  weather  is  damp,  to  dry.  This  care  should 
n'jt  be  neglected  by  any  one  who  makes  any  pretension  to 
neatness. 

The  bureau  drawers  in  this  room  are  not  in  good  order. 
You  Avill  lose  much  time,  and  we  think  a  good  deal  of  self- 
respect,  when  next  you   need  a  handkerchief  or  stockings, 


134      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

for  everything  here  seems  to  have  been  stirred  up  by  a  whirl- 
wind or  a  sleep-walker.  It  will  require  some  skill  and 
more  patience  than  you  can  spare  to  separate  this  wretched 
tangle. 

The  pipes  in  the  wash-basin  and  bath-room  are  slimy  and 
foul,  indicative  of  neglect.  They  should  be  well  washed 
every  morning,  and  once  a  week  a  pail  of  boiling  suds,  with 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  soda  or  potash,  must  be  poured  in,  to 
eat  away  all  impurities,  and  sweeten  the  pipes.  In  passing, 
let  us  say  this  care  is  more  especially  necessary  in  the  kitchen 
sinks.  They  require  a  stronger  suds,  and  more  soda  or  lye, 
and  more  attention,  to  eat  out  all  the  grease  that  avUI  accu- 
mulate in  washing  dishes. 

The  discoloration  around  the  beU-pull,  door-knobs,  etc., 
shows  that  a  careless  girl  has  not  protected  the  wall  or  paint 
while  cleaning  them,  and  the  mistress  has  not  kept  her  eyes 
open.  A  bit  of  oil-cloth,  with  a  hole  in  the  center,  to  slip 
over  the  knobs  or  bell-pulls  while  rubbing,  would  have  saved 
this  defacement  of  paint  and  paper.  And  the  finger-marks 
on  the  doors  also  teU  a  sad  story  of  neglect.  They  need  to 
be  washed  off  once  a  week  ŌĆö  twice,  if  little  fingers  are 
about  ŌĆö  with  a  soft  flannel,  wrung  out  of  hot  suds. 

In  the  sitting-room,  the  mantel  over  the  grate  has  not 
been  washed  every  morning  when  the  fire  is  lighted  in  the 
grate.  It  should  be.  See  !  the  gas  and  smoke  from  coal 
or  kindlings  have  turned  the  white  marble  quite  yeUow. 
Wash  it  in  hot  suds,  strong  with  ammonia,  to  remove  the 
spots,  and  then  use  a  clean  brush  and  hot  suds  every  morn- 
ing, and  you  will  save  much  time,  and  be  well  rewarded  with 
an  unspotted  mantel. 

"We  can't  pry  about  any  longer,  but  there  is  no  knowing 
when  we  may  be  tempted  again  to  m(3ddle  with  our  friends' 
housekeeping. 


BUY  YOUK  CAGE  BEFORE  YOU  CATCH  YOUR  BIRD.     135 

XXXIII. 

BUY  YOUR  CAGE  BEFORE  YOU  CATCH  YOUR  BIRD. 

A  YOUNG  lady  writes  that  this  old  adage  is  often  re- 
peated to  her  "  in  connection  with  grave  warnings 
against  early  engagements  and  early  marriages,"  and  asks  for 
our  opinion  and  advice. 

This  old  proverb  sounds  very  wise,  and  if  taken  literally 
may,  for  aught  we  know,  be  correct  doctrine  ;  but  when  used 
as  a  warning,  in  the  connection  which  our  friend  suggests, 
we  don't  more  than  half  believe  in  it.  We  are  no  advo- 
cate for  very  long  engagements  or  unreasonably  early  mar- 
riages ;  but  we  do  believe  that  the  happiest  marriages  are 
of  those  between  whom  the  love  was  early  plighted,  and 
that  close  observation  wiU  prove  that  such  are  the  most  likely 
to  stand  the  test  of  time,  and  pass  through  the  many  rough 
and  hazardous  paths  of  married  life  with  the  most  cheerful 
fortitude.  Those  who  have  delayed  marriage  till  their  habits 
have  become  too  firmly  established  to  yield  kindly  to  an- 
other's wishes  or  pecuharities  have  not,  we  think,  so  sure  a 
prospect  of  a  pleasant  and  harmonious  life.  We  would 
sooner  trust  an  early  union  to  carry  the  wedded  pair  down 
to  a  peaceful  old  age,  not  only  without  losing  the  love  that 
first  united  them,  but  with  the  firm  hope  that  it  would  grow 
brighter  and  brighter  until  that  perfect  day  when  both,  hav- 
ing passed  over  the  river,  shall  stand  with  clearer  vision  and 
purified  affection  before  the  throne  of  God. 

Wlien  school-days  are  over  and  the  young  man  enters  upon 
his  chosen  occupation,  and  the  maiden  leaves  her  school-room 
to  return  to  her  mother's  care,  then  we  believe  that  a  be- 
trothal formed  with  pure  love  for  the  basis  is  a  great  safe- 


136     MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

guard.  It  protects  the  lover  from  many  temptations  by 
which  young  men  away  from  home  are  beset,  especially  in 
the  city.  They  have  little  society  save  such  transient  com- 
panions as  may  cross  their  path,  and  who  will,  perhaps,  seek 
to  entice  them  to  find  pleasure  in  low  and  unrefined,  if  not 
in  really  impure  and  sinful  courses.  In  the  evening,  after 
the  day's  work  is  ended,  time  hangs  heavy  on  their  hands, 
they  crave  something,  they  know  not  what,  and  are  easily 
entrapped. 

Now,  while  a  true  love  will  teach  a  man  to  turn  from  such 
pleasures  in  disgust,  it  will  also  save  the  maiden  any  desire  to 
indulge  in  the  flirtations  and  coquetries  with  which  gay  and 
fashionable  society  tempts  young  and  unguarded  girls  to  de- 
grade themselves.  An  engagement  does  not  always  prevent 
this,  we  are  sorry  to  say,  but  pure  love  wUl  prove  an  unfail- 
ing protection. 

IsTeither  do  we  believe  an  engagement  should  be  protracted 
after  the  lover  has  entered  upon  his  business  or  profession, 
until  he.  has  accumulated  sufficient  wealth  to  keep  his  bird 
in  a  golden  cage. 

Begin  real  life  together.  That  is  the  true  way,  aU  the 
sweeter  and  happier  if  you  begin  small.  The  less  style  and 
display  there  is,  the  more  time  each  will  have  to  study  the 
home  character  of  the  one  they  have  accepted  as  a  companion 
for  life,  and  the  better  opportunity  to  learn  easily  how  to 
bear  and  forbear,  to  tone  down  such  peculiarities  as  are 
not  conducive  to  mutual  confidence  and  harmony.  In  all 
characters  there  will  be  such  peculiarities,  ŌĆö  it  is  quite  right 
there  should  be,  ŌĆö  but  by  carrying  the  same  gentleness  and 
courtesy  into  domestic  life  which  was  so  easily  and  naturally 
given  in  the  days  of  courtship,  yielding  a  little,  giving  up  one 
to  the  other,  the  early  wedded  become  assimilated,  and  find 
in  their  union  an  ever-increasing  joy,  which  a  later  marriage, 
when  the  habits  become  fixed  and  unyielding,  seldom  realizes. 


BUY   YOUR  CAGE  BEFORE  YOU   CATCH  YOUR  BIRD.      137 

"  But  to  begin  life  in  a  small  way,  with  limited  means, 
subjects  one  to  much  drudgery  and  many  deprivations ;  be- 
sides, we  lose  caste.  Those  who  knew  us  in  our  father's 
house,  surrounded  with  comfort  and  luxury,  would  scarcely 
deign  to  notice  us  if  found  in  circumstances  so  at  variance 
with  our  parents'  mode  of  Ufe." 

Such  friends  are  scarcely  worth  the  securing.  You  have 
outgrown  babyhood  and  childhood,  and,  having  entered  upon 
man's  and  woman's  estate,  surely  do  not  expect  to  be  always 
cradled  in  your  parents'  arms  ;  but  if  you  are  of  any  worth 
you  should  cheerfully  accept  life  as  you  find  it.  "  Its  rough 
ascents  or  flowing  slopes,"  if  trod  together  and  in  love,  will 
insure  genuine  happiness,  and  we  often  think  one  stores  up 
quite  as  much  real  pleasure  while  passing  through  the 
rough  places  as  when  walking  among  the  flowers.  We 
know  that  the  retrospection  is  often  a  source  of  unfading 
enjoyment. 

Many,  we  are  aware,  find  great  delight  in  selecting  the 
house  that  is  to  be  their  home,  and  furnishing  it  as  elabo- 
rately and  tavStefuUy  as  their  means  will  permit,  perhaps  even 
beyond  a  safe  limit,  and  then  surprising  the  bride  by  usher- 
ing her  into  this  unexpected  establishment.  The  surprise  is 
doubtless  effected,  but  although  the  annoyance  may  be  con- 
cealed, in  nine  cases  out  of  ten  we  venture  to  say  it  is  keenly 
felt.  When  possible,  both  should  act  together  in  selecting 
the  house,  or  it  may  be  "  rooms,"  where  is  to  be  their  home, 
and  the  taste  and  judgment  of  both  be  consulted  in  selecting 
the  furniture  which  they  expect  to  have  before  their  eyes 
daily.  In  examining  and  counseling  together  freqixently, 
they  modify  each  other's  tastes,  and  in  the  end  are  far  better 
satisfied  than  if  either  had  done  the  work  alone. 

The  money  for  furnishing  a  house  is  often  provided  as  a 
part  of  the  bride's  outfit,  and  of  course,  if  she  chooses  so  to 
consider  the  matter,  it  is  her  right  to  select  the  furniture, 


138     MOTHERLY   TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

without  consulting  another's  taste  or  wishes.  But  the  older 
we  grow  the  more  we  are  satisfied  that  my  rights  should  be 
erased  from  the  matrimonial  dictionary,  and  our  rights  sub- 
stituted. 


XXXIV. 

CARE  IN  SELECTING  A  HOUSE. 

CHOOSING  a  house  or  tenement  is  one  of  the  cares  that 
often  devolves  upon  the  wife,  and  demands  great  skill, 
good  judgment,  and  sound  common-sense,  because  there  are 
so  many  things  to  be  taken  into  consideration.  We  have 
been  favored  with  a  book  pubhshed  in  London  entitled  "  The 
Best  of  Every  tiling."  We  have  not  yet  so  thoroughly  exam- 
ined its  contents  as  to  be  able  to  judge  if  it  warrants  that 
title,  but  have  been  much  pleased  with  some  "  Hints  on 
choosing,  buying,  or  building  a  House,"  and  think  our  read- 
ers will  be  better  pleased  with  some  extracts  from  that  chap- 
ter than  with  anything  we  could  furnish  :  ŌĆö 

"  Select  a  cheerful,  healthy  locality,  and  be  sure  the  rent, 
including  taxes,  etc.,  does  not  exceed  one  sixth  of  your  in- 
come. Do  not  choose  a  neighborhood  merely  because  it  is 
fashionable,  and  carefully  avoid  occupying  a  dwelling  in  a 
neighborhood  of  doubtful  reputation. 

"  Be  sure  that  the  house  is  dry,  with  convenient  sewerage 
and  plenty  of  water.  A  southern  or  western  aspect  is  to  be 
preferred.  Should  the  house  be  infested  with  vermin,  avoid 
it.  See  that  windows  and  doors  are  well  secured,  that  there 
are  proper  means  of  ventilation,  and  that  the  chimneys  do 
not  smoke, 

"Let  aU  needful  repairs  be  made  by  the  landlord  before 
the  completion  of  your  agreement,  otherwise  you  will  proha- 


CARE  IN  SELECTING  A  HOUSE.  139 

bly  be  required  to  execute  them  at  your  own  expense.  Do 
not  deal  with  a  landlord  commonly  reputed  to  be  disobliging, 
greedy,  or  litigious.  In  every  case  have  a  lease  properly 
drawn  out  and  stamped. 

"  Avoid  the  neighborhood  of  a  sluggish  stream,  a  mill- 
dam,  or  fresh-water  lake.  The  penalties  are  rheumatism, 
ague,  impaired  eyesight,  loss  of  appetite,  asthma,  and  many 
other  ailments.  Choose  a  house  away  from  the  vicinity  of 
tan-yards  and  tallow,  soap,  and  chemical  works,  old  and 
crowded  burying-grounds,  or  slaughter-houses.  A  low  situa- 
tion is  perilous,  especially  during  the  prevalence  of  epi- 
demics. 

"  Never  lease  a  house  in  a  narrow  street  if  you  can  help  it, 
unless  the  back  premises  are  open  and  extensive.  Houses 
built  with  sea-sand  will  in  the  winter  months  discharge 
moisture  and  be  unhealthy.  A  house  with  two  entrances  is 
more  healthy  than  with  only  one.  Before  closing  your  bargain, 
try  to  learn  something  of  the  house  from  a  former  occupant. 

"  If  you  wish  to  purchase  instead  of  leasing,  do  not  trust 
to  appearances  or  rely  on  your  own  judgment ;  but  when  you 
have  found  a  house  likely  to  suit  your  family  and  your  purse, 
employ  a  surveyor  to  inspect  every  portion  of  it.  He  Avill 
examine  the  foundations,  the  state  of  the  sewerage,  and  the 
character  of  the  materials  which  form  the  walls,  the  joints, 
flooring,  and  other  wood-work.  He  will  be  able  to  detect 
if  soft  bricks  have  been  used,  by  finding  traces  of  dampness 
at  the  bottom  of  the  walls.  Let  a  lawyer  examine  all  papers 
necessary  to  secure  a  full  possession. 

"Beware  of  rashly  purchasing  fixtures,  such  as  window- 
blinds  or  curtains,  hall  carpets,  or  kitchen  furniture  ;  new 
articles  may  be  found  in  the  end  more  economical. 

"  Make  an  effort  to  pay  the  whole  of  the  purchase-money. 
A  bond  on  your  house  may  endanger  your  credit  and  affect 
your  comfort. 


140     MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

"  If  instead  of  buying  a  house,  you  wish  to  build,  select 
your  locality  ;  but  before  completing  the  arrangements,  ascer- 
tain the  precise  nature  of  the  soil.  In  a  gravelly  soil  you 
will  readily  secure  good  foundations  ;  but  if  you  find  clay, 
or  moist  earth,  be  cautious.  You  may,  indeed,  procure  ^n 
artificial  foundation  by  laying  a  bed  of  concrete  ;  but  this 
will  be  attended  with  considerable  expense.  Consult  an 
architect ;  he  will  make  a  plan  for  your  approval,  and  pre- 
pare working  plans,  and  a  specification.  If  the  house  is  to 
be  built  of  brick,  be  careful  to  examine  the  quality  of  the 
bricks,  and  also  of  the  mortar.  Personally  inspect  the 
plumber's  work,  which,  if  inferior,  will  expose  you  to  end- 
less expense  afterwards. 

"  Do  not  aUow  zinc  to  be  used  either  as  gutters  or  water- 
pipes  ;  it  wastes  under  exposure. 

"  "When  a  new  house  passes  out  of  the  hands  of  the  car- 
penters, the  painters  and  paper-hangers  take  their  place.  In 
selecting  your  paper-hangings,  keep  in  view  these  considera- 
tions. If  the  ceiling  is  low,  oak  paper,  or  any  dark  paper, 
will  make  it  apparently  lower  still ;  or  if  a  room  be  defec- 
tively lighted,  a  dark  shade  aggravates  the  evil.  Papers  of 
large  designs  are  unsuited  for  a  small  room,  making  it  look 
smaller ;  and,  generally,  papers  with  a  variety  of  colors  and 
showy  patterns  are  inconsistent  with  elegance.  Striped  pa- 
pers are  better  adapted  for  rooms  with  low  ceilings.  When 
you.  have  pictures  to  hang  on  the  walls,  floral  devices  in  the 
paper  are  particularly  unsuitable.  Paper  of  a  uniform  color, 
such  as  light  or  dark  green,  is  admirably  adapted  for  pic- 
tures. The  paint  of  doors  and  windows  should  harmonize 
with  the  paper-hangings.^^ 


VISITING   FOK   ONE'S   OWN   CONVENIENCE.  141 

XXXV. 

VISITING   FOR   ONE'S   OWN   CONVENIENCE. 

THEEE  are  very  few  housekeepers  in  cities  or  large 
towns  who  wiU  not,  at  the  first  glance,  understand  pre- 
cisely what  this  means  ;  and,  however  many  may  have  been 
tempted  to  indulge  in  this  style  of  visiting,  and  perhaps 
often  yielded  to  the  temptation,  there  will  be  none  found, 
we  venture  to  say,  who  will  not  heartily  protest  against  it, 
when  practised  upon  themselves. 

We  have  before  us  a  letter  from  a  lady  on  this  subject, 
and  think  we  cannot  do  better  than  to  transcribe  part  of  it 
for  the  benefit  of  our  young  friends,  as  it  presents  the  sub- 
ject in  a  clear  and  very  forcible  manner  :  ŌĆö 

"  Do  not,  by  any  means,  imagine  that  I  would  say  a  word 
against  friendly  visits,  for  mutual  enjoyment  and  the  culti- 
vation of  true  friendshiiJ.  I  gladly  welcome  to  my  house  all 
who  come  to  see  me,  and  delight  to  do  them  honor  in  every 
way  hospitality  can  suggest.  My  friends  are  sure  of  a  cor- 
dial welcome  at  all  times,  and  I  never  make  a  visit  I  do  not 
wish  returned.     So  much  by  way  of  parenthesis. 

"  ^ow  for  a  statement  of  grievances.  It  is  my  misfortune 
(or  fortune)  to  have  been  brought  up  in  a  rural  town,  about 
thirty  miles  from  the  city  where  I  have  resided  since  my 
marriage,  five  years  ago.  I  am  a  young  housekeeper,  not  yet 
of  sufficient  experience  to  take  matters  as  easily  as  older  and 
more  experienced  matrons  can,  and  therefore  am  more  easily 
disturbed  by  untoward  events. 

"  The  people  living  in  my  native  town  and  thereabouts, 
who  are  in  the  least  acquainted  with  me  or  my  husband,  find 
it  vastly  convenient,  when  they  come  to  the  city,  once  or 


142      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

twice  a  year,  or  oftener,  to  shop,  do  errands  of  various  kinds, 
or  attend  conventions,  ŌĆö  of  which  we  have  legions,  Ō¢Ā ŌĆö  to  come 
directly  to  my  house,  with  all  the  freedom  of  brothers  and 
sisters,  and  stay  till  their  mission  to  the  city,  whatever  it  may 
be,  is  accomplished,  with  no  thought  or  inquiry  of  how  it 
may  conflict  with  my  plans  and  convenience,  or  whether  my 
health  is  sufficient  to  enable  me  to  bear  the  addition  to  my 
work.  And  still  worse,  they  never  give  any  notice  of  their 
coming ;  but  arrive,  perhaps,  in  the  noon  train,  just  as  I  am 
dishing  up  dinner  for  my  small  family,  with  their  strong 
country  appetites,  whetted  by  their  morning  ride,  and  expect 
a  good  dinner  and  a  hearty  welcome.  If  it  were  only  one 
or  two  who  take  such  liberties,  I  would  not  mind  it ;  but  as 
one  after  another  makes  my  house  their  hotel,  it  becomes  a 
weariness  to  the  flesh.  JSTor  is  this  all.  The  hardest  and 
most  annoying  of  all  is  to  have  a  woman  come  bringing  a 
young  child,  and  remain  till  she  has  made  her  purchases  for 
a  large  family.  This  of  course  takes  two  or  more  days. 
The  child  is  left  in  my  care,  while  the  mother  is  only  in 
the  house  at  meal-times.  The  child  is  home-sick,  lonely, 
and  fretful,  and  completely  wears  me  out,  mentally  and 
bodily ;  and  I  have  no  means  of  redress.  When  the  mother 
leaves,  she  says,  '  'Now  come  and  make  me  a  visit,'  well 
knowing  that  I  never  will, 

"  I  might  speak  of  the  annoyance  of  rising  two  hours  ear- 
lier than  usual  to  get  breakfast  in  season  for  an  early  morn- 
ing train ;  but  I  forbear,  hoping  you  will  help  those  who 
suff"er  from  this  cruel  and  heartless  practice." 

This  victim  of  a  selfish  and  heartless  custom  has  so  well 
portrayed  the  annoyances  that  spring  naturally  from  it,  that 
few  words  of  ours  are  needed.  But,  in  justice  to  the  writer, 
we  must  assure  our  readers  that  this  is  no  fancy  sketch  ;  the 
half  of  what  the  landladies  of  these  gratuitous  hotels  are 
called  upon  ŌĆö  no,  compelled  ŌĆö  to  endure  has  not  been  told. 


VISITING   FOR   ONE'S   OWN   CONVENIENCE.  143 

Happy,  if  when  sick,  witliout  help,  or  unable  to  afford  to 
keep  any,  they  do  not  find  it  necessary  to  furnish  two  or 
three  extra  meals,  at  different  parts  of  the  day,  after  the 
family  have  been  fed,  the  table  and  dishes  all  cleansed,  and 
the  weary  provider  has  just  sat  down  to  that  large  basket  of 
long-delayed  mending.  Long  delayed  !  And  why  ?  Be- 
cause the  time  and  strength  which  might  have  been  given  to 
that  work  have  been  frittered  away  for  those  who  have  no 
legitimate  claim  upon  either,  and  who,  perphaps,  taking  notes 
of  everything  which  their  presence  compels  the  lady  of  the 
house  to  neglect,  go  away  and  requite  her  hospitality  by  criti- 
cising her  housekeeping  and  remarking  upon  her  inefficiency  ! 
Or  it  may  be,  these  long-suffering  ladies  are  rung  up  at  mid- 
night to  receive  unscrupidous  and  untimely  guests ;  or,  in- 
stead of  one  child  to  look  after,  they  are  expected  to  act  as 
nurse  to  three  or  four.  We  have  tried  and  known  it  all, 
and  confess  we  don't  like  it. 

Aside  from  the  fatigue  and  inconvenience,  the  pecuniary 
tax  is  often  much  heavier  than  the  poor  victim  can  afford  to 
pay.  We  think  the  meanest  kind  of  pilfering  is  that  prac- 
tised by  self-constituted  guests.  We  Avould  ride,  in  the 
darkest  night,  over  the  roughest  corduroy  roads  ever  seen  at 
the  West  in  her  earliest  days,  until  we  found  a  log-tavern,  on 
the  edge  of  a  "  clearing,"  with  no  private  room,  no  eatable 
food,  and  a  bed  already  fully  inhabited,  before  we  would 
thxis  trespass  on  any  one  upon  whom  we  had  not  strong 
claims  of  hearty  love  or  relationship,  and  especially  with- 
out warning.  And  one  who  has  ever  tried  this  alterna- 
tive, will  acknowledge  that  we  could  not  well  express  our 
abhorrence  of  the  practice  of  "  visiting  for  one's  own  con- 
venience" more  forcibly. 

Look  at  it  on  the  score  of  the  host's  convenience.  Even 
with  an  abundant  income,  an  ample  supply  of  well-trained 
servants,  every  housekeeper  knows  that  one  is  liable  to  have 


144      MOTHEKLY   TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

on  the.  table  what  may  be  sufficient  for  "  the  family,"  ŌĆö  the 
last  of  the  bread,  and  only  enough  meat.  The  new  bread 
may  be  almost  ready  for  the  oven,  but  not  for  the  table. 
The  butcher  may  have  been  delayed,  or  forgotten  your  order, 
and  you  have  no  more  supplies  on  hand.  Who  does  not 
know  the  anxiety  and  annoyance  of  "  improvising  "  a  dinner 
for  unexpected  guests,  when  the  larder  is  not  well  filled'? 
(By  the  way,  dear  young  housekeeper,  keep  watch  that  you 
are  not  often  caught  with  short  "  rations.")  Then,  you  often 
have  engagements  that  demand  your  attention  immediately 
after  you  have  finished  your  dinner,  and  failing  to  meet  such 
engagements  may  cause  you  much  trouble,  and  subject  you  to 
very  great  annoyance.  And  for  whom  must  you  allow  all 
these  arrangements,  connected  with  your  own  or  your  family's 
interests,  to  be  deranged  1  For  almost  a  stranger,  ŌĆö  a  mere 
passing  acquaintance,  in  nowise  congenial,  who  finds  your 
house  more  pleasant  and  convenient,  and  certainly  more 
econo7}iical,  than  a  public  hotel.  There  are  mischievous, 
roguish  boys  in  most  families,  who  have  a  very  emphatic 
nomenclature  of  their  own  by  which  they  would  designate 
such  liberties  ;  but  as  we  very  gravely  rebuke  all  "  slang  " 
phrases  in  our  own  family,  we  dare  not  venture  to  use  their 
terms,  however  appropriate,  and  can  simply  say,  that  it  is 
the  coolest  and  most  unpardonable  kind  of  unwarrantable 
familiarity. 

There  is  another  trouble  connected  with  convenient  and 
economical  visiting,  which  our  friend  has  not  noticed.  We 
trust  she  has  never  experienced  it.  We  have,  many  times  ; 
and  in  former  years,  with  young  children  to  care  for,  it  was 
the  hardest  to  bear  of  all  the  vexations  caused  by  these  un- 
welcome guests.  We  refer  to  the  disturbance  and  dissatis- 
faction which  such  unexpected  increase  of  labor  causes 
among  our  servants.  If  these  visits  are  not  like  those  of  the 
angels,  "  few  and  far  between,"  (and  such  hotels,  once  found, 


VISITING   FOR   one's   OWN   CONVENIENCE.  145 

are  not  often  left  quiet,)  your  "  help  "  will  be  very  likely  to 
appear  before  you,  carpet-bag  in  hand,  saying,  "  Please,  mem, 
I  must  leave  you  ;  I  did  not  hire  out  to  a  boarding-house ." 
Ah,  what  blessed  independence  !  They  can  give  notice  to 
leave,  but  you  cannot.  You  cannot  quit  your  post,  but 
must  stay  by,  and  silently  endure.  So  custom  ordains. 
But  if  custom  enacts  unjust  laws,  lays  upon  weary  shoul- 
ders heavy  burdens  most  grievous  to  be  borne,  is  not  a  re- 
volt justifiable  '1  We  think  it  is,  and,  in  mercy  to  patient 
workers,  the  sooner  it  begins  and  the  more  unflinchingly  it 
is  sustained  the  better. 

When  those  who  have  no  claim  upon  your  time  or  your 
affections  take  such  liberties,  besieging  you  in  your  home, 
we  think  it  not  at  all  reprehensible  or  discourteous  to  say, 
frankly,  with  unmistakable  plainness,  that  it  is  inconvenient 
or  quite  impossible  for  you  to  accommodate  or  entertain 
them.  Be  as  kind  and  gentle  as  you  can,  but  be  firm. 
They  have  no  claim  upon  you ;  let  it  be  well  understood 
that  you  recognize  -none,  and  mean  to  act  accordingly.  If 
you  accept  the  intrusion,  without  protest,  you  will  but  rivet 
your  bonds  ;  and  while  you  find  them  growing  stronger  and 
more  galling  every  year,  you  will  also  find  that  your  power 
to  resist  and  break  the  chains  becomes  weaker.  Your  sub- 
mission to  such  imposition  and  oppression  will  be  well  noised 
abroad,  and  you  Avill  find  yourself  at  the  mercy  of  many 
a  chance  customer. 

To  such  as  come  to  you  in  love  and  for  love's  sake,  let 
your  doors  swing  wide  open.  Intercourse  between  friends 
and  relatives  is  another  and  very  different  thing.  It  is  giv- 
ing and  receiving,  and  the  pleasure  makes  the  labor  light. 
But  to  all  who  use  your  house  for  their  own  selfish  con- 
venience, lock  the  door  and  drop  the  key  in  your  pocket. 


146      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPEES. 

XXXVI. 

WILL   THEY   BOAED,   OR   KEEP   HOUSE  1 

"T'VT'E  tliiiilv  it  is  considered  allowable  to  criticise  and 
V  V  gossip  about  household  matters  generally,  so  that 
we  don't  intrench  on  anybody  in  particular.  But  to  avoid 
meddling  was  a  doctrine  so  thoroughly  inculcated  in  our 
youth,  that  in  our  talk  with  young  housekeepers  we  have 
found  ourselves  shrinking  from  touching  upon  many  little  mis- 
takes that  need  rectifying,  or  topics  that  will  bear  discussion, 
forgetting  that  we  are  really  not  prying  into  private  family 
matters.  Yet,  thanks  to  many  letters  of  inquiry  from  un- 
known friends,  which  give  us  license  and  courage  to  take 
up  prevailing  modes  or  ideas  and  suggest  what  we  think  a 
better  way,  we  shall  go  on,  and  perhaps  be  considered  a 
meddler  after  all ! 

"When  young  people  marry,  the  first  question  asked  is, 
"  "Will  they  board,  or  keep  house  ]  "  And  the  reasons  for  or 
against  keeping  house  show  a  very  great  variety  of  opinions. 
We  hear  this  question  so  often,  and  see,  with  pain,  how 
poorly  prepared,  through  the  reprehensible  indulgence  of  their 
mothers,  many  of  the  young  ladies  of  the  present  day  are  for 
the  performance  or  superintendence  of  home  cares  and  duties, 
that,  having  waited  for  some  explicit  inquiries  on  the  subject, 
we  now  propose  to  embody,  in  an  imaginary  letter,  some  of 
the  anxieties  and  distress  which  this  same  indulgence  stores 
up  for  the  tenderly  reared  daughters.  We  will  suppose. that 
one  of  these  young  ladies  writes  us  as  follows  :  ŌĆö 

"  I  know  that  you  generally  advise  yoimg  people  to  go  to 
housekeeping,  instead  of  boarding.  That  may  be  the  best 
way  for  most,  and  of  late  I  am  inclined  to  think  it  is  ;  but  I 


WILL   THEY   BOARD,    OR   KEEP   HOUSE]  147 

am  peculiarly  situated.  I  wonder  if  you  can  understand  how 
very  hard  it  must  be,  how  almost  impossible,  for  a  young  lady 
who  has  lived  twenty  years  without  any  cares,  who  has 
always  seen  an  abundance  of  everything,  ŌĆö  never  knowing 
or  thinking  that  economy  was  or  could  be  necessary,  ŌĆö  to 
undertake  the  care  of  a  house,  under  circumstances  which 
will  make  it  desirable  that  the  work,  if  not  done  by  her  own 
hands,  should  be  wholly  under  her  constant  supervision. 
What  sort  of  a  housekeeper  would  you  expect  her  to  make  'i 
I  have  just  learned  that  my  parents  are  not  able,  now,  to 
start  me  in  life  as  elegantly  as  I  have  always  been  brought 
up  to  expect.  In  a  few  weeks  I  shall  be  united  to  one,  not 
rich,  but  I  think  well  worthy  of  any  sacrifice  or  hardsliip. 
He  earnestly  desires  me  to  consent  to  begin  housekeeping  as 
soon  as  we  are  married.  I  don't  want  to,  because  I  am  sure 
boarding  will  be  wiser  and  safer  than  my  unskillfid.  house- 
keeping. But  my  friend  says,  if  I  will  consent,  he  will  be 
patient  with  my  short-comings  and  mistakes,  and  will  work 
enough  harder  to  make  up  for  all  I  waste  while  learning. 
Poor  fellow !  he  little  dreams  what  an  ignoramus  he  is  about 
to  risk  his  comfort  and  perhaps  happiness  with.  Why,  I 
know  absolutely  nothing  of  what  I  am  just  beginning  to 
feel  is  of  the  greatest  importance,  if  we  would  secure  a  happy 
union.  To  be  sure,  I  can  sing  and  dance  well,  so  partial 
friends  say.  I  paint  with  skill  and  accuracy  sufficient  at 
least  to  amuse  myself  and  while  away  such  time  as  would 
otherwise  drag  heavily  during  a  rainy  day,  and  am  quite  * 
skillful  with  my  needle  when  I  use  it  for  fancy  work ;  but 
when  it  comes  to  useful,  necessary  work,  I  am  as  helpless  and 
useless  as  a  child.  Ah,  if  my  dear  parents  had  lavished  half 
the  money  to  teach  me  household  mysteries  that  was  expended 
to  make  me  thoroughly  accomplished,  in  the  fashionable  sense 
of  that  term,  how  happy  I  should  now  be  and  how  bright 
the  future  would  appear !     I  have  good  health,  and,  if  I  only 


148      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

knew  how  to  do  anything,  would  shrink  from  no  hardship  ; 
hut  I  honestly  know  nothing  useful.  And  this  foolish  lover 
of  mine  talks  about  being  patient  with  my  mistakes  until  I 
learn  to  keep  house  !  Alas,  it  Avill  take  years  to  teach  me 
so  that  I  can  see  my  way  through  this  fog  and  tangle  of  igno- 
rance. I  shall  be  an  old  woman,  bent  and  gray,  before  I 
understand  the  first  principles  of  household  economy.  Will 
he  bear  with  me  through  all  the  vexatious  blunders  I  shall 
make  while  learning;  and  be  patient  if,  after  years  of  trial, 
he  finds  I  am  but  an  awkward  and  unskillful  worker  stiU  1 " 

Yes,  if  this  young  man  is  worthy  of  your  love,  he  will  value 
the  efforts  you  make,  and  sympathize  with  you  when  you  find 
the  results  unsatisfactory.  If  he  would  have  your  praise- 
worthy struggles  to  make  the  home  attractive  successful,  he 
must  not  look  back  to  the  "  leeks  and  onions  of  Egypt,"  but 
accept  the  journey  through  the  wilderness  with  cheerfulness, 
and  be  lovingly  grateful  if  the  "  manna  "  falls  at  first  but 
seldom.  Many  a  young,  inexperienced  wife  has  had  all  her 
efforts  paralyzed,  because  her  husband  was  so  often  murmur- 
ing about  his  mother's  bread  and  pies  and  gingerbread.  That 
is  cruel  and  unmanly. 

IS;  ow,  in  the  first  place,  let  us  say  to  every  young  couple, 
Go  to  houseTceeping  by  all  means.  However  awkward  or  un- 
skillful you  may  be,  or  however  small  and  simple  must  be 
your  habitation,  do  not  let  the  first  years  of  married  life  be 
passed  in  a  boarding-house.  It  is  no  place  to  learn  each 
other's  character,  to  become  accustomed  to  the  peculiarities 
that  belong  to  every  one  ;  it  is  no  place  to  accept  as  home. 

If  you  are  not  able  to  employ  servants  while  you  two,  who 
have  just  been  made  one,  are  the  only  occujDants  of  your  new 
home,  happy  are  ye.  In  this  early  stage  of  married  life,  to 
venture  on  boarding,  or  risk  the  tyranny  of  servants,  is  to 
deprive  yourselves  of  the  sweetest  experiences  of  a  true  home. 
ISTo  matter  how  heavy  or  how  light  your  purse  may  be,  if  you 


WILL  THEY  BOARD,   OR   KEEP   HOUSE]  149 

are  wise,  commence  small.    If  young  people  assume  the  cares 

of  a  large  mansion,  and  with  it,  of  necessity,  the  supervision 

of  a  number  of  servants,  they  will  soon  become  disheartened, 

and  vote  housekeeping  wretched  work.     But  in  a  small  house, 

before  "  olive  plants  "  cluster  around  to  tell  you  that 

"  The  cottage  is  too  small, 
And  the  table  wanteth  space," 

you  become  accustomed  to  the  care,  and  so  well  versed  in  all 
the  minutest  detads  of  home  labor,  that  you  will  scarcely  feel 
the  additional  tax  on  your  energies,  either  of  the  olive 
branches  or  a  larger  house,  and  the  additional  care  of  ser- 
vants, which  will,  of  necessity,  come  with  a  more  imposing 
residence. 

Then,  as  to  the  shrinking  from  venturing  into  the  new  and 
untried  household  domains,  which  young  ladies  so  naturally 
feel  who  know  absolutely  nothing  but  the  "  accomplish- 
ments "  taught  in  schools,  we  would  say,  for  your  encourage- 
ment, that  the  road  to  such  knowledge  as  will  enable  you  to 
form  some  correct  idea  of  the  work  which  lies  before  you  is 
not  so  long  or  so  difficult  as  your  fears  have  led  you  to  im- 
agine. With  a  willing  heart,  with  hands  made  quick  and 
skillful  by  love,  the  way  will  soon  become  easy  and  pleasant. 
If  possible,  employ  much  of  the  few  last  weeks  before  your 
marriage  in  making  yourself  familiar  with  the  rudiments 
of  household  affairs.  Read  all  you  can  about  it,  ŌĆö  how 
your  house  should  be  arranged,  what  will  be  necessary  in 
each  department.  Learn  all  you  can  about  marketing,  ŌĆö 
what  articles  are  most  desirable,  and  during  what  seasons ; 
seek  how  to  judge  of  the  quality  of  the  food  you  buy,  and  the 
honest  price  for  it.  These  are  homely  details,  but  the  knowl- 
edge wiU  be  all  needed,  indeed  it  is  indispensable  to  perfect 
you  in  good  management ;  but  you  will  secure  the  most  effec- 
tive' knowledge,  and  the  greatest  confidence  in  your  own 
capacity,  by  going  about  the  house,  and,  little  by  little,  doing 


150      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

with  your  own  hands  the  work  belonging  to  each  depart- 
ment, under  your  mother's  supervision,  or  that  of  a  AveU- 
trained  housekeeper.  At  lirst,  as  it  is  all  neAv  work  to  you, 
it  Avill  not  be  easy  or  pleasant ;  but  repeat  the  trial,  and 
with  each  attempt  you  will  find  that  you  are  acquiring  skill 
and  courage.  Let  there  be  no  part  of  household  labor  that 
you  do  not  perform  a  few  times  yourself,  until  you  are  well 
assured  that  you  have  sufficiently  mastered  it  to  do  it  again, 
or  to  detect  any  mistake  or  blunder  in  a  servant.  If  you 
must  keep  servants,  they  will  give  you  little  comfort  unless 
they  see  from  the  first  ŌĆö  and  they  are  usually  very  quick  to 
discern  between  an  intelligent  or  ignorant  mistress  ŌĆö  that 
you  mean  to  overlook  your  work  daily,  and  are  abundantly 
able  to  discover  any  deviation  from  the  right  track.  But 
above  all  things,  unless  for  a  year  or  two  after  marriage  you 
can  have  the  privilege  of  discarding  servants  entirely,  endeav- 
or, before  marriage,  to  feel  so  much  at  ease  in  the  kitchen, 
and  so  far  mistress  of  cooking,  that  you  will  be  able  easily 
to  detect  any  failure,  and  know  the  reason  for  it.  If  bread  is 
brought  to  the  table  that  is  not  satisfactory,  it  is  wise  to  be 
able  to  say  to  your  cook,  with  confidence,  "  Your  bread  should 
have  risen  longer  before  being  put  into  the  oven.  It  is  not 
exactly  heavy ;  but  it  feels  solid,  and  bites  tovigh."  Or, 
"  Your  bread  is  full  of  holes.  You  have  not  kneaded  it  suffi- 
ciently." Or,  "  Cook,  we  must  return  that  barrel  of  flour.  It 
is  not  good.  See  how  it  '  runs '  as  you  are  kneading  it.  "We 
shall  have  no  real  good  bread  from  such  flour."  "  The  pastry 
was  not  nice  to-day.  You  have  handled  it  too  much,  and  it 
cuts  as  tough  as  leather.     Please  be  more  careful  about  it." 

Thus,  by  spending  an  hour  a  day  in  your  mother's  kitchen, 
taking  an  active  part  in  the  work  to  be  done  there,  and  going 
through  every  department  in  the  same  thorough  manner, 
even  one  month  will  advance  you  so  that  you  can  see  the 
"  silver  lining  "  to  all  these  clouds,  and  will  give  you  suffi- 


CHOICE  OF   COLORS   IN    DRESS.  161 

cient  confidence  in  your  own  knowledge  and  power,  to  banish 
all  the  mysterj-  and  dread.  Then,  when  you  walk  with  well- 
assured  steps,  knowing  that  you  have  conquered  so  far,  and 
can,  of  course,  conquer  all,  by  patient  endurance  in  well-doing, 
you  will  begin  to  enjoy  every  step  of  progress  you  make.  No 
matter  if  you  are  and  will  be  possessed  of  fabulous  wealth, 
this  knowledge  should  be  secured  by  every  young  lady.  But 
should  you  begin  with  large  or  small  means,  in  either  case  your 
prospects  of  comfort  and  happiness  are  very  insecure,  if  you 
enter  the  married  state  unwilling  to  ac(|uire  that  which  every 
woman  should  know,  ŌĆö  the  art  of  housekeeping.  In  after 
life,  when  home  cares  may  be  less  pressing,  become  lawyer, 
judge,  or  President,  if  you  can  ;  but  surely  young  women  can 
find  noble  work,  sufficient  for  all  their  talents  and  energies,  in 
laying  the  foundation  of  and  securely  estabUshing  a  weU- 
ordered  and  happy  home. 


XXXVII. 


CHOICE   OF  COLORS   IN  DRESS. 

BLONDES. 

IN  the  selection  of  articles  for  dress,  one  should  be  guided, 
not  only  by  the  quality  of  the  fabric  and  durability  of 
Color,  but  also  by  observing  if  the  color  will  harmonize 
with  the  complexion  of  the  wearer. 

Nothing  marks  refinement  and  culture,  or  the  Avant  of 
it,  more  than  the  combination  of  colors  in  one's  attire. 
It  is  foUy  to  spend  time  and  thought  upon  the  adorning  of 
the  body,  to  the  exclusion  of  other  and  more  important  mat- 
ters ;  but  it  is  always  wise  to  do  well  whatever  is  to  be 
done,  and  to   develop  and  perfect   such    gifts  as   God   has 


152      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

bestowed,  either  of  body  or  mind,  so  as  to  make  them  as 
attractive  and  valuable  as  possible.  We  hold  it  to  be  a  duty 
to  give  such  time  and  thought  to  dress  as  will  secure  the 
largest  amount  of  pleasure  and  gratification  to  one's  family 
and  friends.  To  labor  to  secure  a  prominent  position,  to 
become  a  leader  of  fashion,  is  another  and  A^ery  different 
thing.  When  seeking  to  impart  pleasure  to  friends,  we  are 
influenced  by  love  ;  but  when  striving  to  be  among  the 
most  fashionable,  Ave  cater  to  a  selfish  vanity  or  a  poor  and 
low  ambition. 

Works  on  the  combinations  of  color  in  dress  divide  com- 
plexions into  the  "  fair  and  ruddy  blondes,"  and  the  "  pale 
and  florid  brunettes."  In  the  fair  blonde  Ave  find  a  deli- 
cate Avhite  skin ;  light  hair,  in  all  the  shades  from  a  golden 
hue  to  yellow  or  orange-broAvn  ;  light  blue  or  gray  eyes  ;  a 
slight  tinge  of  rose  on  the  cheek,  and  a  richer  tint  on  the 
lips.  In  all  such  complexions  the  rose-color  is  not  decided 
enough,  and  the  hair  Avould  be  improved  by  a  deeper  hue  ; 
and  these  changes  can  be  made,  in  a  good  degree,  by  a  suit- 
able mingling  of  color  in  the  dress.  One  of  the  most  favor- 
able colors  for  the  fair  blonde  is  a  delicate  green,  as  it 
imparts  to  the  flesh-white  of  the  skin  a  tint  of  red,  which, 
mingling  Avith  the  natural  hue,  forms  an  agreeable  rose-tint, 
ŌĆö  a  good  contrast  both  to  the  face  and  hair,  especially  if  the 
hair  is  golden,  incHning  to  orange. 

The  best  colors  to  mingle  with  the  green,  as  trimmings, 
are  red,  orange,  and  gold.  Green  and  gold  form  a  rich  har- 
mony, peculiarly  becoming  to  the  fair  blonde.  Scarlet, 
blended  Avith  green,  harmonizes  better  than  red ;  but  if  red, 
inclining  to  crimson,  is  used,  then  orange  and  gold  must  also 
be  combined  Avith  it.  There  are  some  shades  of  green  that 
are  not  becoming,  unless  blended  with  and  enlivened  by 
other  harmonious  colors.  A  green  bonnet,  Avith  rose-color 
and  white,  Avith  a  Avhite  feather,  Avill  ahvays  be  becoming  for 


CHOICE   OF   COLORS   IN   DRESS.  153 

this  complexion.  Be  careful  that  too  much  white  is  not 
used,  else  it  will  have  a  cold  effect,  and  therefore  will  not  aid 
the  fair  complexion  so  much.  Orange  or  gold  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  pink  or  rose ;  also  red,  in  a  small  bonnet, 
but  neither  should  be  placed  close  to  the  face.  Orange,  in  a 
green  bonnet,  in  small  quantities,  is  becoming,  if  the  wear- 
er's eyes  are  blue.  A  few  autumnal  shades  of  red,  orange,  or 
yellow-green  are  also  in  harmony  with  the  fair  complexion ; 
but  dark  green  is  not  at  all  desirable. 

Blue  is  very  suitable,  giving  an  orange  tint,  which  har- 
monizes finely  with  the  delicate  white  and  flesh  hues  of  the 
complexion.  There  is  always  a  natural  trace  of  orange-color 
on  the  skin,  and  this  color,  by  intensifying  this  natural  tint, 
is  very  pleasing ;  but  the  blue  must  be  light,  and  not  too 
positive.  Blue  being  the  perfect  contrast  of  orange,  it  agrees 
finely  with  golden  or  orange-brown  hair.  This  is  the  reason 
that  light  blue  head-dresses  are  so  very  becoming  on  light 
hair.  To  give  a  good  effect  to  blue  by  gas-Hght,  a  little 
white  or  very  pale  blue  is  necessary  to  be  in  contrast  or 
very  near  the  face.  If  there  are  green  leaves  with  the  blue 
flowers  of  a  head-dress,  they  should  be  placed  as  near  the 
face  as  possible. 

White,  black,  a  very  little  yeUow,  orange,  straw,  or 
stone  color,  may  either  of  them  be  used  in  the  trimmings  of 
a  light  blue  bonnet  with  good  effects  ;  but  not  if  there  are 
pink  or  purple  flowers  on  it,  as  these  colors  mingled  with 
blue  are  unsuitable.  The  colors  to  be  used  carefully  or 
avoided  altogether,  with  fair  complexions,  are  yellow,  orange, 
red,  and  purple.  The  light  shades  of  lilac  may  be  sometimes 
used ;  but  it  is  very  trying,  and  must  always,  if  used,  be 
separated  from  the  flesh  by  an  edging  of  tulle  or  some  sim- 
ilar trimming,  or  be  associated  with  its  harmonizing  colors, 
cherry,  scarlet,  light  crimson,  or  gold  color,  and  then  they 
will  in  part  overcome  the  bad  effects ;  but  green  and  lilac 
7* 


154      MOTHERLY   TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

should  never  be  coupled,  as  it  will  form  a  positive  discord. 
A  very  little  light  purple  is  agreeable  for  a  head-dress  on  light 
hair,  but  must  be  placed  near  the  skin. 

Neutral  colors,  if  not  too  dark,  accord  well  with  fair 
blondes  ;  gray,  fawn,  drab,  and  some  few  shades  of  brown 
are  the  best.  Black  is  good  for  the  fair  blonde  who  has 
some  healthy  color,  because  it  increases  the  rose  in  the  com- 
plexion ;  but  it  is  bad  for  pale  skins,  as  it  bleaches  them  by 
the  painful  contrast.  ISTo  delicate  color  can  be  blended  with 
black  without  seeming  of  a  lighter  tone.  Unless  used  for 
mourning,  black  must  be  mingled  with  either  blue,  cherry, 
mulberry,  drab,  or  lilac,  to  remove  the  somber  eifects ;  but 
cherry  and  lilac  must  be  used  sparingly.  Red  must  not  be 
used  at  all  with  black  for  fair  blondes,  as  it  gives  a  rusty 
tinge.  AVhite  is  suitable  with  black,  if  some  other  color  is 
added ;  otherAvise  it  is  too  cold.  A  black  bonnet  looks  well 
with  a  fair  complexion,  but  a  little  white  and  rose-color 
should  be  added,  keeping  the  rose  away  from  the  skin. 
White  is  pleasant  for  all  complexions,  but  more  so  with  the 
fair  blonde  who  has  some  color  than  for  any  other.  Bright 
colors  with  white  bonnet  may  be  added,  but  must  be  kept 
low,  and  well  grouped.  White  increases  the  paleness  of  a 
pale  skin,  but  this  effect  may  be  neutralized  by  a  blue  or 
green  wreath  brought  well  on  the  face. 

The  ruddy  hlonde  has  a  full-toned  complexion,  inclining 
to  positive  rose-red  or  carnation ;  dark  blue  or  broAvn  eyes, 
blonde  and  brown  hair.  All  the  colors  suitable  for  the  fair 
are  generally  suitable  for  the  ruddy  blonde,  but  the  tones 
and  in  some  cases  the  hues  must  be  changed.  As  a  rule 
this  type  may  use  more  freedom  in  the  selection  of  colors 
than  the  fair  ;  her  complexion,  not  being  so  delicate,  is  less 
sensitive.  The  hair  being  the  medium  between  gold  and 
black,  and  the  complexion  higher  toned  and  more  positive, 
rich  and  moderately  dark  colors  may  be  used. 


CHOICE  OF  COLORS  IN   DRESS.  156 

Green  is  very  becoming,  but  it  must  be  of  the  darker 
shades,  and  not  the  delicate  green  that  is  so  becoming  for 
the  fair  blonde.  If  the  complexion  is  light  and  can  use 
more  red,  without  being  overcharged,  rich,  full-toned  green, 
such  as  grass  or  moss  green,  may  be  used,  as,  although  suffi- 
ciently bright  to  yield  color  to  the  skin,  it  is  not  so  powerful 
a  contrast  as  to  bleach  it.  In  proportion  as  the  complexion 
increases  in  color  a  deeper  green  may  be  selected,  passmg  from 
the  positive  to  the  neutral  hues,  as  sage,  tea,  or  oUve  green. 
These  deep,  neutral  greens  do  not  cast  much  red,  while  they 
both  harmonize  with  and  reduce  the  nutural  hue.  A  simple 
rule  for  the  ruddy  blonde  is,  the  paler  her  complexion  the 
brighter  must  be  the  green  she  wears,  the  rosier  the  cheek 
the  deeper  and  more  neutral  must  be  the  green.  For  the 
high-toned  blonde  the  green  may  be  neutralized  by  mingling 
rose,  scarlet,  orange,  or  white  flowers.  If  on  the  inside  of  a 
bonnet,  the  colored  flowers  must  be  surrounded  with  some 
gray  or  semi-transparent  material  to  keep  from  contrast  Avith 
the  skin.  On  the  outside  dead-green  or  autumnal  leaves, 
with  a  feAv  flowers  of  orange  or  scarlet,  are  selected.  Eose- 
colored  flowers  harmonize  better  Avith  bright  yellow-green 
than  with  dead-green  leaves. 

Blue  also  is  suitable,  but  it  follows  the  same  rules  as  green : 
it  must  be  deeper  and  richer  for  the  ruddy  blonde  than  for 
the  fair.  The  best  colors  to  associate  with  the  rich  blues 
are  orange,  salmon,  and  chocolate  ;  white  and  black  also  har- 
monize wdth  blue.  Bonnets  and  head-dresses,  and  wreaths 
of  blue,  need  the  same  colors  blended  as  for  the  fair  blonde, 
only  of  a  deeper  tint,  and  all  colors  pointed  out  as  injurious 
by  the  one  type  must  be  avoided  by  the  other.  The  most 
difiicult  color  to  introduce  in  any  dress  is  violet ;  its  effect 
on  all  complexions  being  so  unsatisfactory.  AU  skins  appear 
yelloAv  when  in  contrast  with  it,  and  look  sickly  and  disa- 
greeable.    A  large  proportion  of  yellow  is  needed  to  reduce 


156      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

and  neutralize  the  effects  of  violet.  It  becomes  positively- 
lost  in  artificial  light,  and  should  never  be  used  or  introduced 
into  an  evening  dress. 

iS^eutral  colors  are  mostly  suitable  for  the  ruddy  blonde  ; 
when  light  they  increase  the  color,  when  dark  they  reduce 
it  by  contrast.  Eusset,  gray,  slate,  maroon,  and  all  shades 
of  broAvn  are  the  most  pleasing  of  the  darTc  neutrals,  and 
gray,  drab,  fawn,  and  stone  color,  the  most  desirable  of  the 
light  neutrals. 


I 


XXXVIII. 

HAEMONIZING  COLOES  IN  DRESS. 

BRUNETTES. 

IS"  the  last  chapter  we  noticed  the  colors  most  appropriate 
and  harmonious  for  the  fair  and  the  ruddy  blonde. 
"We  shall  now  note  a  few  peculiarities  of  the  pale  and  the 
florid  brunette. 

In  the  2^<^de  brunette,  the  eyes  and  hair  are  usually  a  deep 
brown  or  brown-black,  and  the  skin  pale,  often  Avith  some 
sallow  shade.  With  this  peculiar  complexion,  light  or  very 
dark  colors  are  the  most  becoming,  because  the  light  colors 
harmonize  with  the  tint  of  the  skin,  and  the  dark  colors 
with  the  hue  of  the  hair  and  eyes.  Thus  we  foUoAv  ISTature's 
coloring,  and  sustain  her  effective  contrasts.  When  the  col- 
ors of  the  dress  are  a  medium  between  the  skin  and  hair  and 
eyes,  they  "  reduce  the  expression,  and  injure  or  destroy  the 
greatest  charm." 

Blade  being  similar  to  the  color  of  eyes  and  hair,  and  a 
perfect  contrast  to  the  complexion,  increases  the  piirity  of  the 
natural  tints,  and  is  very  suitable  for  the  pale  brunette.    All 


HARMONIZING  COLORS   IN   DRESS.  157 

the  shades  of  dark  brown  being  similar  to  the  hair  and  eyes, 
are  also  appropriate.  Claret,  dark  russet,  and  crimson  are 
not  unsuitable,  but  less  desirable  and  becoming  than  black 
or  brown. 

Positive  blue,  green,  or  purple  must  not  be  used  ;  but  dark 
blue,  green,  or  violet  may  be  accepted,  provided  the  com- 
plexion has  no  shade  of  yellow  or  saUowness.  If  there  is, 
these  colors  must  all  be  avoided. 

White,  being  analogous  to  the  hue  of  the  skin,  is  very  de- 
sirable, enhancing  the  richness  of  the  eyes  and  hair,  and,  as 
it  receives  a  yellow  tint  from  artificial  light,  is  particularly 
desirable  for  an  evening  dress  for  the  pale  brunette.  Yellow 
and  white  united  are  also  becoming  in  the  evening  for  this 
class  of  complexion,  but  become  dull  by  daylight,  and  very 
undesirable.  Gold  or  maize  color  contrasts  pleasantly  with 
black  or  dark  brown  eyes  and  hair,  and  neutralizes  any  dis- 
agreeable saUowness  that  there  may  be  in  the  skin. 

The  florid  brunette  often  inclines  to  the  oUve  complexion, 
and,  in  many  cases,  to  the  copper-colored,  or  subdued  yellow, 
or  orange-brown,  with  more  positive  red  on  lip  and  cheek 
than  in  the  blonde  types.  The  eyes  are  black,  the  hair  jet 
or  blue-black.  The  tones  yellow,  orange,  and  red  predomi- 
nate in  the  florid  brunette,  and  harmonize  together  by  analogy 
or  similarity  ;  but  they  also  harmonize  with  the  black  hair 
and  eyes,  by  contrast ;  therefore  great  care  and  good  judg- 
ment shoiild  be  exercised,  lest  this  agreeable  group  of  har- 
monizing tints  should  be  weakened  or  destroyed  by  the  use 
of  objectionable  colors.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  desirable 
to  seek  to  neutralize  any  unpleasant  tone  in  the  complexion, 
caused  by  too  much  yellow,  which  will  other-wise  give  a  sallow 
and  unhealthy  tinge  to  the  skin.  Yellow,  maize,  or  gold  color 
will  efl'ect  this ;  because,  while  they  contrast  favorably  with 
the  color  of  the  hair  and  eyes,  intensifying  their  richness  by 
the  purple  tint  which  this  cambination  forms,  they  also  har- 


158      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

monize,  by  analogy,  with  the  tints  of  the  complexion,  and  at 
the  same  time  sufficiently  neutralize  any  excess  of  yellow  that 
these  tints  may  exhibit.  When  the  skin  shows  more  orange 
than  yellow,  maize  or  yellow  in  the  dress  will  enrich  the  com- 
plexion by  the  increase  of  red  which  these  colors  Avill  develop. 

A  yellow  bonnet  is  very  becoming  to  the  florid  brunette ; 
but  as  it  is  worn  near  and  surrounds  the  face,  much  of  its 
effects  must  be  neutralized  by  introducing  violet,  purple,  or 
deep  blue  as  trimmings ;  they  must  not  come  in  contact  with 
the  face,  however,  and  should  be  used  very  sparingly. 

Orange  is  too  brilliant  and  gaudy  to  be  used  in  dress,  ex- 
cept in  very  small  quantities,  and  the  same  rule  holds  good 
of  red,  scarlet,  bright  crimson,  magenta,  and  all  brilliant 
colors  of  the  like  class ;  they,  with  orange,  are  suited  to 
some  complexions  where  it  is  advantageous  to  neutralize,  but 
they  are  too  bright  for  general  costume.  A  scarlet  head-dress 
is  becoming  with  dark  hair,  intensifying  it  by  contrast,  and 
by  the  purple  shade  which  it  adds  when  worn  near  black. 
Dark  ^red,  also,  is  suitable  for  complexions  that  have  too 
much  red  on  the  cheeks  or  lips,  neutralizing  the  color  of  the 
skin,  and  reducing  it  by  contrast.  Violet  is  not  agreeable, 
unless  its  bad  effects  are  controlled  or  counteracted  by  the 
addition  of  yellow ;  but  the  dark  shades  of  violet  are  less 
objectionable  than  the  positive  color.  A  violet  bonnet  may 
be  used  with  this  type  of  complexion,  if  trimmed  with  pale 
yellow,  ŌĆö  primroses,  for  instance  ;  the  flowers  being  a  good 
contrast  to  the  violet  bonnet,  and  harmonizing  well  with  the 
skin. 

A  black  bonnet  is  not  as  becoming  for  the  brunette  as  for 
the  blonde ;  but  by  using  white,  red,  orange,  or  yellow  trim- 
mings, it  is  quite  pleasing.  It  enhances  the  red  by  reducing 
the  lighter  tints  of  the  skin,  but  it  has  no  power  to  neutralize 
any  objectionable  tint  that  may  exist.  White  is  more  favor- 
able than  black,  and  accords  well  with  this  complexion.     A 


HARMONIZING  COLORS   IN   DRESS.  159 

white  bounet  is  suitable,  if  trimmed  with  red,  orange,  or 
yellow ;  but  the  yellow  shoidd  be  mingled  with  white  only 
for  evening  wear. 

In  grouping  color  with  color,  nothing  is  more  common 
than  to  see  discordant  tints  placed  together,  ŌĆö  purple  and 
green,  for  instance ;  and  however  rich  the  material  or  beau- 
tiful the  wearer,  such  incongruity  is  exceedingly  distasteful. 
In  arranging  colors,  it  shoidd  be  borne  in  mind  that  there 
are  two  kinds  of  harmony,  ŌĆö  the  harmony  of  contrast  and 
the  harmony  of  analogy.  "When  two  dissimilar  colors  are 
blended  agreeably,  such  as  blue  and  orange,  or  lilac  and 
cherry,  they  form  a  harmony  of  contrast.  Two  distant 
tones  of  one  color,  such  as  very  light  and  very  dark  blue, 
associated,  harmonize  by  contrast ;  but  in  this  latter  in- 
stance, the  harmony  is  neither  so  striking  nor  so  perfect. 
When  similar  colors,  such  as  orange  and  scarlet,  crimson  and 
crimson-brown,  are  grouped  together,  they  form  a  harmony 
of  analogy  ;  and  if  two  or  more  shades  of  color,  closely  ap- 
proximating in  intensity,  are  associated,  they  harmonize  by 
analogy. 

Harmonies  of  contrast  are  more  effective,  but  not  more 
important,  than  those  of  analogy.  The  former  are  brilliant 
and  decisive,  the  latter  quiet  and  undemonstrative.  Both 
hold  equal  positions  in  matters  of  dress,  and  in  arranging  the 
colors  of  the  costume  be  careful  to  choose  the  proper  species 
of  harmony. 

There  are  two  rules  to  be  observed  :  first,  associate  with 
colors  favorable  to  the  complexion  tints  that  will  harmonize 
bj''  analogy  or  similarity,  because  contrasting  colors  would 
diminsh  and  injure  its  favorable  effect ;  second,  if  the  color 
selected  for  the  dress  is  injurious  to  the  complexion,  then 
contrasting  color  must  be  associated  with  it,  to  neutralize  its 
objectionable  influence. 

There  is  much  more  to  be  said  on  the  selection  of  colors 


160      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

for  dress,  but  we  must  not  trespass  longer.  We  hope  that, 
by  our  having  thus  called  attention  to  this  subject,  our  read- 
ers may  find  it  sufficiently  interesting  to  become  familiar 
with  the  rules  given,  and  carry  the  lessons  it  may  have  taught 
into  practical  use. 

We  are  very  largely  indebted  to  "  A  Manual  for  Ladies," 
by  W.  and  G.  Audsley,  for  much  of  the  information  grouped 
in  this  and  the  preceding  article. 


XXXIX. 

A  WOED  ABOUT  MOTHS. 

"  ny  yrOTHS  in  the  winter  !  Pray  don't  speak  of  them  ! 
-LVJL  Some  weeks  later  will  be  time  enough  to  stir  up  our 
minds  by  way  of  remembrance.  The  vexatious  little  tor- 
ments !  they  surely  don't  work  in  vmiter !  And  yet  I  have 
noticed  several  little  spots,  or  holes,  that  looked  as  if  eaten 
by  moths.  I  am  sure  they  were  not  there  early  in  the  fall  : 
I  could  n't  understand  it,  but  was  so  confident  that  moths 
did  not  do  their  mischief  in  winter,  that  I  have  been  trying 
to  find  some  other  cause  for  these  marks." 

Ah  !  there  was  where  you  were  mistaken.  There  are  two 
kinds  of  moths,  ŌĆö  one  a  large  silver-colored  fly  ;  its  Avorm 
is  shaped  somewhat  like  those  found  in  chestnuts.  The  oth- 
er was  first  noticed  some  eight  or  ten  years  since,  by  the  up- 
holsterers. It  is  smaller,  of  a  brown  or  dark  drab  color.  It 
is  governed  by  no  times  or  seasons,  but  works  steadily  on, 
summer  and  winter.  The  heat  of  our  city  homes  or  furnace- 
heated  country-houses  may  promote  this  uninterrupted  activ- 
ity. The  moth  or  fly,  it  is  said,  finds  its  way  into  a  sofa  or 
chair  between  the  back   or  seat  under   the   lining,  Avhere, 


A  WORD  ABOUT   MOTHS.  161 

among  the  springs,  it  finds  a  safe  and  convenient  hiding- 
place.  They  will  often  secure  a  home  in  these  secret  places 
within  a  week  of  the  time  that  furniture,  right  from  the  cab- 
inet-maker's, has  been  brought  into  the  house.  If  they  do, 
they  are  so  enormously  prolific  that  in  a  month  or  two  they 
can  be  numbered  by  thousands.  We  cannot  but  think  that 
when,  in  a  carefully  kept  house,  these  moths  are  found  in  new 
furniture,  they  must  have  been  first  introduced  through  poorly 
prepared  hair  or  material  with  which  the  article  was  uphol- 
stered ;  or  the  hair,  having  been  wet,  Avas  used  before  it  was 
carefully  dried.  This  theory  may  be  only  an  imagination 
of  our  own  but  every  year's  experience  confirms  the  idea, 
ŌĆö  upholsterers  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

It  is  said  that  these  moths  will  not  eat  pure  curled  hair, 
but  only  use  it  to  fasten  their  cocoons  upon,  as  being  secure 
from  any  disturbance,  through  the  elasticity  of  the  hair. 
They  use  the  inside  of  furniture  only  for  propagation,  and 
here  at  the  same  time  may  be  found  the  fly,  the  worms,  and 
the  eggs.  From  tliis  concealment  the  worm  escapes,  to  feed 
on  the  plush  or  woolen  materials,  or,  falling  to  the  floor, 
feeds  on  the  carpet.  Plush  being  made  with  cotton  back 
generally,  they  seldom  eat  through  that,  though  they  do 
sometimes  cut  through  the  muslin  backs  of  sofas,  etc.  Little 
protection  may  be  hoped  for  from  the  use  of  cayenne  pepper, 
Scotcli  snuff,  camphor,  turpentine,  or  all  other  remedies 
against  the  large  moth.  Continual  Avatchfulness  is  the  only 
safety. 

At  least  once  a  week  tlie  furniture  should  be  moved  away 
from  the  Avails  into  the  middle  of  the  room  and  well  brushed 
and  beaten  with  a  "furniture  whip"  or  braided  ratans. 
After  brushing  carefully  all  around  the  buttons  with  a  furni- 
ture button-brush,  pull  up  the  material  Avhich  will  lie  in 
loose  folds  or  pleats  about  the  buttons,  and  hold  them  up 
with  one  hand  Avhile  you  brush  off  all  lint  or  dust  that  may 


162      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

have  settled  in  these  folds.  These  are  nice  little  hiding- 
places  for  the  worm,  and  must  be  looked  after.  As  fast  as 
each  piece  of  furniture  has  been  faithfully  brushed  and 
whipped,  set  it  into  the  next  room  and  keep  the  doors 
closed. 

"Wliile  cleaning,  turn  each  chair  or  sofa  bottom-side  upward 
and  beat  the  backs  and  under  part  of  the  seats,  to  dislodge 
any  that  may  have  found  shelter  inside.  When  the  furni- 
ture has  received  all  needed  attention,  and  is  removed  from 
the  room,  give  the  carpet  a  thorough  cleansing  by  going  over 
it  with  a  "  carpet-sweeper."  ISTothing  so  effectually  gathers 
up  the  Avorms  or  eggs,  and  the  carpet  is  less  worn  than 
when  swept  with  a  broom.  Of  course,  in  the  corners 
and  around  the  edges,  where  the  "  carpet-sweeper "  cannot 
work,  you  must  use  a  small  whisk-broom  and  dust-pan,  and 
this  must  be  done  before  going  over  the  main  part  of  the 
carpet. 

In  using  a  "  sweeper  "  be  careful  to  empty  it  once  or  twice 
while  going  over  a  large  room,  pulling  out  all  the  strings  and 
hair  that  may,  when  gathered  up,  have  twisted  around  the 
axle  of  the  circular  brush  inside  the  box.  If  not  removed,  it 
will  soon  obstruct  the  motion,  and  its  operation  be  ineffectual. 
In  using  a  "  carpet-sweeper  "  have  everything  out  of  the  way 
of  the  machine,  that  you  may  have  a  clear  siu'face  across  the 
whole  length  of  the  room,  if  possible  ;  hold  the  handle  up 
nearly  straight,  so  as  to  bring  all  the  brush  underneath  in 
contact  Avith  the  carpet  ;  press  down,  and  with  a  firm  hand 
run  oA^er  the  breadth  from  one  end  of  the  room  to  the  other, 
going  by  the  seam  or  thread,  lengtliAvise.  When  at  the  far- 
ther end  lift  up  the  box  so  that  it  Avill  not  touch  the  carpet, 
and,  turning  round,  proceed  till  the  whole  length  of  the  car- 
pet has  been  swept ;  then  begin  AvidthAvise  and  proceed  in 
the  same  manner,  only  be  careful  to  run  straight.  If  the 
"  sweeper  "  is  turned  round  AA^hile  resting  on  the  floor,  the 


A  WORD  ABOUT   MOTHS.  163 

dirt  is  apt  to  drop  out  in  rolls  by  the  process  of  turning.  It 
requires  a  little  experience  and  good  judgment  to  use  a  "  car- 
pet-sweeper "  judiciously ;  but  once  understand  it  and  you 
will  not  willingly  be  without  one.  When  this  work  is 
done,  empty  all  the  dirt  from  the  "  sweeper  "  and  comb  the 
rolling-brush  with  a  coarse  or  "  fringe  comb." 

But  to  return  to  the  moths.  If  they  get  inside  your  fur- 
niture, they  may  be  destroyed  by  taking  off  the  muslin  under 
the  seats,  the  outside  ends,  and  the  backs,  where  they  most 
naturally  seek  privacy.  If  this  must  be  done,  take  each  piece 
out  to  the  yard  or  on  a  back  veranda,  after  you  have  removed 
the  lining ;  spread  down  an  old  sheet  and  set  the  furniture  on 
it,  and  beat  with  a  stick  to  dislodge  the  moths.  Watch  for  the 
flies  and  worms  that  you  have  routed,  and  kill  them  as  fast  as 
they  are  seen.  If  you  do  not  succeed  in  killing  all  of  them, 
by  a  repetition  of  this  operation  a  few  times  they  will  be  dis- 
turbed and  leave  the  furniture,  as  they  seek  to  be  left  in 
quiet.  If  they  attack  the  carpet  they  generally  begin  under 
the  sofas  and  chairs  or  on  the  edges  of  the  carpet  in  the 
corners  of  the  room.  In  this  case,  as  soon  as  you  find  the 
first  intimation  of  their  ill-omened  presence,  spread  a  wet 
sheet  on  the  carpet,  and  pass  a  hot  flat-iron  over  quickly  ; 
keep  a  number  of  irons  heating  and  change  often.  The  heat 
and  steam  will  destroy  both  worm  and  egg. 

But  do  not  let  this  success  beguile  you  into  any  remissness. 
They  can  "  creep  slyly  through  a  tiny  space,"  and  in  a  few 
weeks,  if  they  find  you  sleeping  on  your  post,  will  effect  an 
entrance,  and  will  have  increased  and  multiplied  until  the 
last  state  of  that  furniture  "will  be  worse  than  the  first. 


164      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

XL. 

WINTER    BUTTER. 

MUCH  has  been  .said  and  written  on  making  winter 
butter.  Our  papers  bring  daily  complaints  of  the 
article  as  sold  in  our  markets,  and  furnish  us  with  many 
elaborate  directions  how  to  overcome  an  evil  which  can  no 
longer  be  meekly  endured. 

In  large  butter  factories,  with  every  facility  for  preserving 
uniform  temperature,  it  is  not  easy  to  accept  any  excuse  for 
poor  butter,  summer  or  winter ;  but  when  butter  is  only 
made  in  small  quantities,  simply  for  family  consumption, 
and  at  a  time  when  the  cows  are  giving  much  less  milk  than 
in  the  summer  and  fall,  there  is  a  necessity  for  more  care  and 
labor  in  securing  good  butter  than  when  we  can  furnish 
green  pastures  and  fresh  food  for  the  cows.  Still  we  all  ex- 
pect, and  should  be  willing  to  accept,  more  discomforts  in 
our  winter's  labors  than  we  find  in  warm  weather.  Aside 
from  these  considerations  we  fail  to  see  any  insurmountable 
difficulty  in  securing  good  sweet  butter  in  the  winter.  Of 
course  Ave  do  not  look  for  yellow  butter  at  this  season  of  the 
year,  and  when  we  see  it  we  distrust  its  purity ;  but  the 
golden  color,  though  desirable,  as  a  pleasure  to  the  eye,  is 
not  an  essential.  For  years  we  made  a  large  portion  of  our 
own  butter  from  only  one  cow,  with  but  a  few  conveniences, 
and  with  very  limited  accommodations  to  aid  us  in  the  work  ; 
but  Ave  never  had  biitei-  butter,  and  have  never  found  a 
good  reason  why  any  one  should  be  compelled  to  suffer  from 
that  infliction. 

In  the  first  place,  a  great  deal  depends  on  having  pure, 
clear  milk  to  start  with,  and  to  secure  that  we  think  a  warm, 


WINTER  BUTTER.  165 

clean  shelter  and  good  food  should  he  provided  for  the  ani- 
mals. Aside  from  good  hay,  free  from  mustiness,  they  should 
have  as  large  a  supply  of  roots  ŌĆö  beets,  pumpkins,  carrots, 
or  potatoes,  Avhichever  is  the  most  convenient,  or  some  of 
all  ŌĆó ŌĆö  as  you  can  furnish  ;  hut  Avhatever  is  given  should  be 
entirely  free  from  decay,  if  you  would  have  a  healthy  cow 
and  pure  milk. 

The  milk  Avill  receive  no  unnatural  flavor  from  any  or  all 
of  these  roots ;  but  no  skill  can  conceal  the  use  of  cabbages 
or  turnips,  however  small  the  quantity.  We  know  many 
affirm  that  they  invariably  give  them  to  their  milch  cows 
and  perceive  no  disagreeable  taste  in  the  milk  from  their 
use.  Judging  from  much  of  the  butter  found  in  our  mar- 
kets, we  can  easily  believe  that  cabbages  and  turnips  were 
lavishly  fed  to  the  cows  from  whose  milk  the  butter  was 
made ;  and  how  any  one  can  fail  to  notice  the  unpleasant 
flavor  given  by  such  food  we  cannot  understand.  Still,  we 
will  not  quarrel  with  those  who  choose  to  use  these  esculents 
so  long  as  our  cows  are  not  fed  with  them  and  we  are  not 
obliged  to  eat  the  butter. 

"Warm  food,  at  least  once  a  day,  is  not  only  good  for  the 
animal,  but  insures  a  better  quality  and  larger  quantity  of 
milk  and  butter.  It  is  very  little  trouble  to  put  a  large  ket- 
tle over  the  stove  or  range  early  in  the  morning,  and  boil 
such  small  potatoes  as  are  not  nice  for  table  use,  or  a  few 
carrots,  together  with  all  the  parings  of  potatoes  or  the  rind  of 
pumpkins  left  from  cooking.  When  they  have  become  soft, 
mash  with  a  long-handled  masher,  such  as  any  boy  of  ten  has 
sufficient  skill  to  make  ;  then  thicken  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled  with  a  few  handfuls  of  "  shorts  "  or  coarse  barley 
or  oatmeal ;  corn  meal  will  decrease  the  quantity  of  milk  and 
fatten  the  cow.  Give  your  cows  a  generous  feed  of  this  mush 
once  a  day  at  least,  and  they  will  amply  repay  your  care  by 
increasing  and  enriching  the  supply  of  milk. 


166      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

"With  yoiu'  cows  thus  fed,  kept  dry  and  warm,  well  cleaned 
and  curried,  ŌĆö  for  a  coav  needs  that  care  as  much  as  a  horse, 
ŌĆö  you  will  have  good  milk,  and  from  it  cream  which,  with 
proper  care,  can  be  as  readily  made  into  good  butter  in  winter 
as  in  summer. 

ISToAV  as  to  "  proper  care,"  we  speak  only  of  private  fami- 
lies who  have  but  one  or  two  cows.  If  your  milk-room  is  in 
the  cellar,  it  should  be  entirely  separated  from  the  vegetable 
cellar,  and  used  for  nothing  that  can  impart  any  flavor  to 
the  milk,  either  meats,  roots,  sauces,  or  fluids.  If  it  is  well 
cemented  and  banked  up,  so  as  to  prevent  freezing,  you  will 
have  very  httle  trouble  in  keeping  the  milk  warm  enough 
for  the  cream  to  begin  to  rise  quickly.  Of  course  you  will 
pour  boiling  water  into  the  pans,  and  have  them  well  heated 
before  straining  the  milk  into  them.  If  you  have  on  hand 
two  sizes  of  pans,  fill  the  larger  one  third  full  of  boiling 
water,  then  strain  the  milk  into  a  smaller  pan,  filling  it  not 
half  full,  and  set  it  into  the  hot  water ;  turn  another  pan 
over  the  top,  but  not  close  enough  to  exclude  aU  air.  By  so 
doing  you  will  find  that  the  cream  mil  rise  more  rapidly  and 
can  be  more  easily  churned.  When  one  has  but  little  mUk, 
this  is  not  much  trouble. 

If  you  have  no  cellar  that  can  be  kept  warm  and  free  from 
the  smell  of  vegetables,  set  your  milk  on  a  shelf,  in  a  warm 
closet,  Avhere,  of  course,  you  will  keep  no  vegetables  or  meats, 
as  nothing  is  so  easily  impregnated  with  odors  of  all  kinds 
as  milk.  Cover  the  pans  or  bowls  with  a  fine  net,  to  ex- 
clude dust  or  motes  of  any  kind. 

.  Thirty-six  hours  is  as  long  as  milk  should  remain  un- 
skimmed, summer  or  winter.  Every  hour  longer,  even 
though  the  milk  may  taste  sweet,  is  insuring  bitter  butter. 
As  you  skim  off  the  cream,  stir  it  well  each  time.  The  cream 
should  not  be  in  the  cream-pot  longer  than  two  days  before 
churning.  Three  days  may  give  you  moderately  good  but- 
tei',  but  it  is  a  very  doubtful  experiment. 


WINTER  BUTTER,  167 

"  But  how  can  we  churn  every  two  days  when  we  do  not 
gather  more  than  a  quart  of  cream  in  that  time  1  It  would 
be  lost  in  our  churn  ;  we  could  do  nothing  with  it." 

Take  it  into  a  large  bowl,  and  beat  or  stir  it  steadily  with 
a  silver  or  wooden  spoon.  It  will  take  you  no  longer  than 
to  churn  in  the  regular  manner,  and  you  will  secure  a  nice 
roll  of  sweet  butter.  But  a  better,  because  an  easier  and  more 
convenient  Avay,  is  to  buy  a  tall  one-gallon  stone  jar,  and  get 
a  carpenter  to  turn  you  a  handle  ;  put  on  two  cross-pieces  at 
the  bottom,  fidl  of  holes  ;  or  a  circle  small  enough  to  go  into 
the  jar ;  pierce  this  circle  with  holes  as  large  as  a  thimble  ; 
another  circle  for  a  cover,  just  to  fit  the  top  of  the  jar,  Avith 
a  hole  in  the  center  that  will  slip  over  the  handle,  and  you 
have  a  nice  churn,  dasher  and  all.  Now  put  on  your  large 
apron,  lay  a  book  on  the  table  before  you,  take  your  little 
churn  in  your  lap  or  on  a  bench  by  your  side,  and  read, 
churn,  and  rock  the  cradle  if  need  be  (reading  and  rocking 
the  cradle  are  not  essential,  but  are  very  pleasant  ad- 
ditions). In  fifteen  minutes'  steady  churning  you  wiU 
find  the  butter  has  come,  and  can  be  brought  together 
in  this  tiny  churn  as  nicely  as  you  can  desire.  If  you  can't 
get  at  a  carpenter,  ask  your  husband  or  son  to  do  it ;  or,  fail- 
ing there,  have  n't  you  mechanical  skiU  sufficient  to  make  a 
dasher  and  fit  it  to  a  stone  jar  yourself?  A  piece  of  a 
broom-stick,  scoiired  and  polished  with  sand-paper  (or  if  you 
have  no  sand-paper  scrape  it  clean  and  smooth  with  a  bit  of 
glass)  ;  two  cross-pieces  full  of  holes,  screwed  on  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  stick  ;  a  round  piece  fitted  into  the  top  of  the 
jar  for  cover,  ŌĆö  you  can  whittle  it  smooth,  can  you  not  1  ŌĆö 
with  a  hole  for  the  handle  to  pass  through,  and  you  have  just 
as  serviceable  a  churn  as  any  carpenter  could  make  you,  only, 
perhaps,  lacking  a  little  in  the  finish  a  carpenter  might  have 
given. 

Xow,  as  to  the  working  of  the  butter  :  some  say,   wash  it 


1G8      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

faitlifully  J  others  insist  that  no  water  should  come  in  contact 
with  the  butter.  If  you  have  strength  and  skill  enough  to 
work  out  all  the  huttermiUi;  with  a  ladle,  or  a  hand  cool  and 
firm  enough  to  toss  it  from  one  hand  to  the  other,  giving 
quick,  skillful  blows  as  it  passes,  so  that  every  drop  of  but- 
termilk may  be  beaten  out,  then  we  say,  never  wash  the  butter. 
But  although  you  do,  and  by  washing  must  lose  some  of  the 
rich  flavor  our  mother's  butter  used  to  have,  before  there 
were  any  "  modern  improvements,"  still,  better  so  than  not 
secure  entire  freedom  from  buttermilk.  If  any  remains,  you 
cannot  have  butter  that  ^vill  keep  sweet  one  week. 

Take  the  butter  from  the  churn  into  a  wooden  bowl  that 
has  been  well  scalded,  and  then  soaked  and  cooled  in  cold 
water,  and  with  the  ladle  press  out  all  the  buttermilk  you 
can  ;  this  done,  throw  a  handful  of  salt  into  three  or  four 
quarts  of  cold  water,  and  wash  the  butter  quickly  and  thor- 
oughly with  it ;  the  salt  causes  the  buttermilk  to  flow  oft" 
more  readily  ;  pour  off  the  salt-water,  and  wash  again  with 
clear  cold  water  till  it  runs  clear,  drain  off  and  sprinkle  over 
the  butter  what  salt  it  requires  to  suit  your  own  taste. 
There  is  such  a  variety  of  tastes,  that  the  exact  quantity  of 
salt  cannot  be  easily  given.  We  use  a  table-spoonful  of  salt 
to  a  pound  of  butter.  Press  the  butter  into  a  compact  form, 
after  working  in  the  salt,  cover  over  with  a  clean  cloth,  and 
set  it  away  to  harden.  The  next  morning  break  up  and 
work  it  over  once  more  ;  make  into  neat  roUs  or  prints,  put 
it  into  a  stone  pot,  and  cover  with  brine  strong  enough  to 
bear  up  an  egg.  Try  this  and  see  if  you  cannot  have  good 
butter  in  winter. 


REPAIRS.  169 

XLI. 

REPAIRS. 

"  Tlie  mother,  wi'  her  needle  an'  her  shears, 
Gars  auld  claes  look  aniaist  as  weel  's  tlie  new." 

A  FRIEND  writes  :  "  I  have  been  much  interested  in 
the  Grand  Patching  and  Darning  Exhibition ;  but 
my  husband  is  rather  skeptical  as  to  any  great  good  resulting 
from  it.  He  seems  to  think  it  a  waste  of  time  to  do  tliis 
work  with  such  particularity,  and  doubts  if,  in  these  days  of 
plenty,  women  will  find  it  necessary  to  patch,  piece,  and 
darn  so  elaborately.  I  reply,  that  probably  a  large  portion 
of  those  who  have  seen  or  read  of  this  work  may  never 
be  called  upon  to  do  it ;  yet  we  know  that  there  are  many, 
very  many  who  are,  and  will  be,  compelled  to  economize  ma- 
terial, tlhougli  at  the  loss  of  time  ;  and  therefore  I  think  this 
exhibition  will  prove  a  good  thing,  if  it  should  lead  to  a 
more  thorough  knowledge  of  the  way  to  do  this  work  well. 
How  much  more  respectable  and  comfortable  the  poorer 
classes  could  be  made,  if  the  wife  and  mother  understood 
how  to  piece,  patch,  and  darn  neatly,  and  so  contrive  that 
the  smallest  scrap  could  be  used  to  good  advantage  and  pre- 
sent an  attractive  appearance.  I  wish  you  would  give  us  a 
talk  on  this  subject." 

So  much  has  been  said,  and  well  said,  since  this  Exhibition 
was  first  planned,  that  a  word  from  us  may  seem  quite  super- 
fluous. A  motherly  care  for  our  "  Household,"  however, 
tempts  us  to  venture,  though  we  do  not  intend  to  weary 
our  readers  with  many  words.  Every  point  has  already  been 
ably  discussed,  and  we  can  furnish  nothing  new. 

Possibly,  many  of  those  who  have  read  about  this  "  Darn- 


170      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

ing  and  Patching "  have  turned  away,  saying,  "  Thanlc 
fortune  !  I  shall  never  need  to  employ  myself  about  such 
work  ;  I  should  feel  that  I  was  spending  my  time  foolishly." 
Would  the  time  spent  in  perfecting  yourself  in  this  accom- 
plishment be  more  wasted,  think  you,  than  that  which  you 
give  daily  to  crocheting  and  embroidering  a  host  of  things 
unlike  aught  in  heaven  above,  the  earth  beneath,  or  the 
waters  under  the  earth  1  And  yet,  the  time  spent  in  fancy- 
work  has  taught  you  little  that  you  could  turn  to  practical 
use,  should  reverses  befall  you,  ŌĆö  and  who  is  secured  against 
reverses  1  Fortune  is  fickle,  and  policies  taken  out  in  her 
insurance  companies  are  not  reliable. 

We  would  not  speak  slightingly  of  many  kinds  of  really 
elegant  fancy  articles  and  ornaments  which  women's  skill 
has  wrought.  If  you  have  the  time  to  spare,  then,  "  these 
ought  ye  to  have  done,  but  not  to  leave  the  other  undone." 
Should  disaster  come,  and  any  of  us  be  compelled  to  "  rise  up 
early,  and  sit  up  late,  and  eat  the  bread  of  carefulness,"  ŌĆö 
to  plan  and  turn  and  contrive,  using  all  the  skill  we  possess 
to  "gar  auld  claes  look  amaist  asweel's  the  new,"  ŌĆö  how 
thankful  we  should  be  that  in  our  younger  and  more  pros- 
perous days  we  had  been  taught  this  art,  and  by  it  Avere 
now  able  to  carry  with  us  into  our  altered  circumstances  a 
power  to  bring  light  out  of  darkness.  If  one  knows  how  to 
renovate  and  remodel,  there  is  far  more  genuine  pleasure  in 
using  the  knowledge  to  construct  new  out  of  old,  than  can 
possibly  be  gained  Avhile  shopping  on  the  most  extravagant 
scale.  To  walk  into  a  store  with  a  full  purse,  and  buy,  with- 
out stint,  whatever  the  eye  covets  ;  to  send  the  material  to 
the  dress-maker,  and  have  it  made  and  brought  home  Avithout 
any  effort  on  our  part,  is  a  tame  enjoyment  compared  with  con- 
triving the  dress  from  a  scanty  pattern,  or  from  odd  bits  and 
ends.  We  weary  of  that  which  costs  us  no  toil  or  thought ; 
the  charm  soon  vanishes,  and  we  seek  for  something  new. 


REPAIRS.  171 

Now,  suppose  you  examine  a  dress  that  has  done  good 
service.  It  is  somewhat  spotted  and  a  good  deal  soiled  ; 
but  you  say,  "  It  is  so  pretty  and  becoming,  I  shall  feel  like 
losing  an  old  friend  if  I  throw  it  aside  ;  what  can  I  do  to 
renew  its  beauty  1 "  If  the  material  is  silk  or  woolen,  even 
of  the  most  delicate  colors,  you  can  very  easily  clean  it  with- 
out fading.  After  ripping  it  with  care,  prepare  equal  parts 
of  alcohol,  soft  soap,  and  molasses.  Half  a  pint  of  each 
will  clean  a  silk  dress,  unless  you  have  wasted  twenty-five 
or  thirty  yards  on  one  dress  ;  in  that  case  you  will  need  a 
larger  quantity  of  the  preparation.  Have  near  you  two 
small  tubs  or  pails  of  water,  one  warm,  the  other  cool,  unless 
the  material  is  woolen,  when  you  should  use  hot  water  for 
both.  Sj)read  one  piece  of  the  dress  at  a  time  on  to  an  iron- 
ing-sheet ;  dip  a  clean  sponge  into  this  very  dirty-looking, 
but  very  effective  wash  ;  rub  each  spot  separately  till  you 
have  cleansed  it ;  then,  keeping  the  sponge  wet,  go  over  the 
Avhole  piece,  wetting  it  thoroughly,  and  carefully  removing 
the  dirt  and  spots.  When  satisfied  that  you  have  done  your 
best,  rinse  the  piece  faithfully  in  the  first  water ;  do  not 
wring  it,  but  hold  it  up  and  let  it  drain  a  moment ;  then 
shake  and  snap  vigorously,  to  remove  as  much  water  as  you 
can.  Put  it  through  the  second  water  in  the  same  manner  ; 
snap  as  dry  as  you  can,  at  least  so  that  it  vdll  not  drip  ; 
spread  smoothly  on  the  ironing-sheet,  and  iron  quickly.  Be 
careful  to  iron  hy  a  thread,  and  iron  till  perfectly  dry.  Have 
your  irons  as  hot  as  you  can  use  Avithout  scorching.  If  the 
material  is  the  same  on  both  sides,  iron  on  that  which  was 
first  used  as  the  outside  of  the  dress,  but  make  it  Tip  inside 
out. 

TMs  preparation  is  such  a  vile,  dirty-looking  compound, 
one  would  suppose  it  would  ruin  anything  touched  by  it. 
Not  so  at  all.  "We  have  cleaned  the  most  delicate  silks  and 
ribbons,  ŌĆö  blues,    violet^,    jiinks,    and   greens,  ŌĆö  and    have 


172   MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

never  failed  to  secure  a  very  good  renovation  of  the  ma- 
terials, without  changing  or  weakening  the  color,  or  leaving' 
the  harsh,  stiff  crackle  on  the  silk  which  washing  usually 
gives. 

Having  cleansed  the  dress,  now,  suppose  you 'see  how 
much  ingenuity  you  can  display  in  remodeling  it.  Change 
the  gathers  or  pleats,  that  the  most  wear  may  fall  on  stronger 
spots  ;  alter  the  position  of  trimming  to  hide  some  weak 
place,  or  improvise  something  to  suit  the  exigencies  of  the 
case.  If  cracked  or  much  worn  at  top  and  bottom,  cut  off 
all  that  must  go  ;  then  cut  the  upper  part  of  the  skirt  off 
from  the  bottom,  about  as  high  up  as  you  wish  your  trim- 
ming to  go,  and  set  in  a  piece  of  lining  or  paper  muslin,  to 
supply  the  length  of  what  you  have  cut  away  from  the 
broken  parts  of  the  skirt.  Over  this  "  sham  "  lay  the  fold, 
puff,  ruffle,  or  flounce  you  have  prepared  for  trimming.  It 
Ls  good  economy,  we  think,  to  buy  a  large  pattern  when  you 
get  a  new  dress,  that  there  may  be  some  left  for  repairs,  at 
least  for  new  sleeves  and  waist ;  but  if  you  have'  none,  piece, 
ŌĆö  piece  very  neatly,  of  course ;  and  with  ribbon,  silk,  or 
velvet,  of  a  color  to  contrast,  or  harmonize  with  the  dress, 
form  your  triromings. 

By  skill,  a  garment  may  be  so  entirely  metamorphosed, 
that  your  "  dearest  and  best "  will  compliment  you  on  your 
new  dress.  The  only  good  thing  about  the  present  style  of 
overskirts,  flounces,  paniers,  bows,  and  every  conceivable  and 
inconceivable  shape  of  trimming,  is,  that  it  is  a  wonderful 
help  in  making  old  things  new. 

Some  time  since,  we  noticed  that  a  young  friend,  who  is 
generally  remarkably  neat  and  simple  in  her  taste,  was  rather 
more  elaborately  dressed  than  usual.  We  honestly  compli- 
mented her  on  the  pretty  silk,  the  fine  fit,  and  very  becoming 
color. 

"  But  I  see,"  said  she,  "  you  refrain  from  a  word  of  com- 


ACCURATE  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES  IN  COOKING.      173 

mendation  for  my  trimmings.  They  don't  suit  your  taste,  I 
know,  my  friend,  and  pray  don't  think  that  they  are  in  ex- 
act accordance  with  my  own.  Let  me  tell  you  a  secret. 
Every  bow,  band,  strap,  fold,  and  frill  hides  a  piece  set  in  or 
a  hole  meniled." 

In  the  midst  of  a  large  company,  there  was  not  a  lady  that 
appeared  more  genteelly  or  better  dressed  than  our  friend. 
If  there  were  more  like  this  modestly  independent  and  in- 
dustrious girl,  we  should  hear  very  little  of  the  talk,  so  com- 
mon nowadays,  that  young  men  are  unable  to  marry,  because 
the  young  ladies  are  so  extravagant. 


XLII. 
ACCURATE  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES  IN  COOKING. 

YOUNG  housekeepers  very  often  complain  that,  not- 
withstanding their  most  earnest  efforts  to  work  in 
strict  accordance  with  given  rules  or  receipts,  their  failures 
are  more  frequent  than  their  successes.  They  admit  that 
sometimes  their  work  proves  satisfactory,  but  ask,  "  Why 
should  it  not  always  be  so  ? " 

The  difference  in  the  results  of  their  various  trials  can 
only  be  attributed  to  the  method  and  accuracy,  or  to  the 
haste  and  carelessness,  with  which  their  labor  is  performed. 
Unless  there  was  some  fault  in  the  materials,  some  difference 
in  the  quality,  arising  from  change  between  the  successive 
trials,  or  the  oven  and  fire  were  not  properly  regulated,  there 
can  be  no  reason  for  the  failure,  except  the  fact  that  the 
receipts  and  rules  were  nor  always  strictly  followed. 

"  But,"  say  they,  "  we  used  to  see  our  mothers  throw  the 
materials  together,  apparently  without  thought,  and  we  have 


174      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

often  seen  others  set  about  the  work  of  making  cake,  pies, 
ŌĆóor  bread  with  such  an  easy,  nonchalant  air  that,  to  our  inex- 
perienced eyes,  it  was  perfectly  marvelous  that  any  good 
results  could  possibly  follow ;  yet  the  article  would  come 
from  the  oven  in  all  respects  perfect.  Time  after  time  we 
have  seen  this  done,  and  the  work  always  blessed  with  a  sat- 
isfactory termination  ;  but  if  we  attempt  that  mode  of  labor, 
the  most  disastrous  and  mortifying  consequences  are  siire  to 
rise  up  against  us.     Why  is  this  1  " 

Simply  because  you  are  attempting  to  walk  before  you 
have  learned  to  creep,  and  naturally  get  some  sore  falls  by 
the  premature  attempt.  It  is  only  when  accustomed  to  this 
labor  by  long  years  of  constant  practice,  so  that  it  is  done 
almost  by  instinct,  that  any  one  should  venture  to  deviate 
from  strict  observance  of  well-established  rules.  But  there 
are  very  few,  comparatively,  of  the  most  accomplished  and 
mature  housekeepers  who  attempt  this  free-and-easy  way  of 
cooking  ;  or  if,  in  some  emergency  requiring  haste,  they  are 
driven^  to  it,  they  will  assure  you  that  they  seldom  succeed 
so  perfectly  as  they  would  have  done  had  they  weighed  and 
measured  with  their  usual  care  and  precision.  Occasionally 
we  find  a  few  natural-born  cooks,  with  "  a  law  unto  them- 
selves," just  as  we  find  persons  who  have  a  natural  gift 
for  dress-making  and  millinery,  Avhose  work,  performed  in- 
stinctively, equals  any  French  modiste's.  But  such  cases 
are  rare,  and,  we  are  inclined  to  think,  undesirable,  except 
for  one's  own  ease.  "Where  there  are  young  girls  about, 
either  in  the  family  or  among  friends,  who  may  be  obliged 
to  look  to  you  for  instruction,  you  would  find  it  very  diffi- 
cult and  embarrassing,  had  you  that  gift,  to  attempt  to 
teach  or  put  into. words  anything  which  you  are  able  to  do 
so  entirely  by  intuition.  Even  in  your  own  mind,  you  would 
find  yourself  at  a  loss  how  to  frame  a  definite  rule  or  receipt 
for  doing  it.    Your  hands  seem  to  perform  it  independently  of 


ACCURATE  WEIGHTS   AND   MEASURES   IN   COOKING.      175 

your  head.  Let  some  of  these  gifted  ones  attempt  to  write 
out  a  receipt  which  a  beginner  could  easily  follow,  and  they 
would  make  much  more  awkward  work  of  it  than  you  do  in 
your  efforts  to  work  without  a  definite  rule. 

"  But  even  when  we  do  proceed  in  exact  accordance  with 
the  receipts,  we  often  fail." 

Are  you  sure  you  are  exact  1  We  think  not.  It  requires 
some  little  experience  to  be  able  to  weigh  and  measure  cor- 
rectly, and  we  have  often  noticed  that  it  is  the  lack  of  this 
experience  which  causes  failure  in  most  young  housekeepers. 
If  it  lacks  "  only  a  little  "  of  being  full  weight,  or  is  "  only 
a  little"  too  much,  are  you  not  very  likely  to  say,  "  0, 
it 's  quite  near  enough ;  such  slight  difference  can't  matter, 
and  I  am  in  a  hurry  "  % 

"  Only  a  little  thing "  has  done  much  harm  in  almost 
every  department  of  life,  ŌĆö Ō¢Ā  a  miscliief  that  is  often  irreme- 
diable. If  there  is  only  a  little  too  much  flour,  your 
bread  or  cake  will  be  solid  ;  not  heavy,  perhaps,  but  lacking 
that  light,  tender  state  which  is  so  desirable.  Or,  if  only  a 
little  less  than  the  proper  measure  is  used,  it  will  "fall" 
from  the  crust,  and  come  upon  your  table  flat  and  sodden. 

A  pair  of  scales  and  accurate  measures  are  the  only  safe  re- 
liance, but  these  are  not  always  to  be  found  in  every  family. 
It  is,  therefore,  very  desirable  to  have  always  at  hand  a  table 
of  correct  measures.  Indeed,  when  the  table  is  perfect,  it  is 
much  more  convenient  and  easier  to  prepare  the  proper  pro- 
portions by  measuring  than  by  weighing,  only  one  must  use 
care  and  judgment  to  allow  for  any  extraordinary  moistiire 
in  the  articles,  as  it  would  affect  a  measure  more  than  scales. 
It  is  always  better  to  put  flour,  meal,  sugar,  etc.,  near  the 
fire  to  dry  before  measuring. 

A  table  of  measures,  plainly  printed  in  good-sized  type, 
should  be  hung  over  the  table  or  on  the  wall  in  every 
kitchen. 


176      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

We  close  with  a  convenient  table  of  liquid  and  dry  meets- 

lire :  ŌĆö 

Liquid.  Dry. 

60  drops  =  1  teaspoonfuL      2  even  teaspoonfuls  =  1  even  table- 

2  teaspoonfuls     =  1  tablespoonful.  spoonfuL 

4  tablespoonfuls  =  1  half -gill.  4    "  tablespoonfuls  =  1  ounce. 

8  "  =1  gill.  8    "  "  =1  gill. 

2  gills  =  1  tumblerful  or  half-pint,  2  gills  =  1  tumblerful  or  half-pint. 
2  tumblerfuls      =  1  pint.  2  tumblerfuls  =  1  pint. 

2  pints  =  1  quart.  2  pints  =  1  quart. 

4  quarts  =  1  gallon.  1  heaped  q't  sifted  flour  \  _  t^     +  -i 

1         "  "         sugar  I     "^^^^^ 

1  even  q't  softened  butter-' 
1  pint  of  water  =  1  pound. 
10  eggs  =  about  1  pound- 


XLIII. 

TEACHING    LITTLE    GIELS  TO  SEW. 

"  "VT'ES,  I  suppose  I  shall  be  obliged  to  teach  my  little 
JL  girl  to  sew,  some  time  ;  but  I  am  very  thankful  that 
I  have  some  years  yet  before  I  need  take  up  this  cross.  I 
supply  her  with  bits  of  cloth,  needles,  thread,  and  scissors, 
and  let  her  amuse  herself  with  an  attempt  at  sewing ;  but  how 
I  dread  the  time  when  I  must  begin  in  earnest,  and  try  to 
teach  her  the  proper  way  !  I  sometimes  hope  that  by  letting 
her  botch  and  play  sewing,  by  and  by,  as  she  sees  me  mak- 
ing even  seams,  and  taking  small  stitches,  she  will,  by  imita- 
tion and  observation,  gradually  learn,  without  much  effort 
on  my  part.     Do  you  not  think  that  she  may  1 " 

Never.  No  doubt  some  children  learn  with  much  less 
effort  than  others  ;  but  by  letting  your  little  girl  "  play  sew- 
ing," ŌĆö  hotching  as  you  term  it,  ŌĆö  you  only  connive  at  her 


TEACHING  LITTLE  GIRLS  TO  SEW.  177 

acquiring  a  careless  habit  which  she  will  not  easily  exchange 
for  straight  seams  and  tiny  stitches. 

"  "Would  you  advise  me  to  keep  thread  and  needles  and 
cloth  from  her,  and  endeavor  to  interest  her  in  some  other 
play,  till  such  time  as  I  am  compelled  to  teach  her  how  to 
use  them  properly  1 " 

No  ;  why  should  you  debar  her  from  such  innocent  amuse- 
ments 1  Why  not  begin  at  once  to  teach  her  how  to  do  a 
thing  right,  even  when  in  play  1 

"  Teach  that  baby  !     What  can  she  learn  at  her  age  1 " 

Can  she  not  thread  her  needle  % 

"  Certainly  ;  quite  expertly." 

And  can  she  not  push  her  needle  in  and  out  of  the  cloth  1 

"  0  yes  ;  for  a  baby,  she  shows  quite  a  genius  for  this 
quiet  kind  of  womanly  accomplishment." 

Then  you  see  she  can  learn  something,  notwithstanding 
her  youth.  How  much  more  maturity  or  skill,  tliiuk  you, 
will  it  require  for  her  to  learn,  by  a  few  well-directed  efforts 
on  your  part,  how  to  put  the  needle  in  at  proper  distances, 
taking  up  only  just  so  many  threads  for  a  stitch  1 

"  Why,  she  is  only  a  baby ;  but  little  past  three  years. 
Teach  her  !     How  preposterous  !     You  must  be  ŌĆö  " 

Growing  imbecile,  you  think.  Very  likely  ;  but  these 
ideas  are  no  indication  of  it.  They  are  good,  solid  common- 
sense,  we  think ;  such  as  our  mothers  and  grandmothers 
acted  upon,  in  the  olden  times,  when  early  teaching  and 
genuine  industry  were  fashionable  ;  when  there  were  more 
busy  bees  to  "  improve  each  shining  hour "  of  childhood  ; 
when  these  first  years,  which  were  then  passed  in  "  books 
and  work  and  healthful  play,"  were  a  thousand  times  more 
childlike  and  happier  than  our  days  of  modern  improve- 
ment. Now,  the  toddling  wee  things  are  carried  in  the 
nurses'  arms  to  infant  parties,  dressed  and  flounced  and 
frizzed,  until  every  vestige  of  simple  cliildhood  is  lost  in 
8*  L 


178      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS, 

their  painfully  ludicrous  efforts  to  imitate  their  more  foolisli 
elders,  ŌĆö  kept  up  far  beyond  a  healthful  bedtime,  and  fed 
with  food  injurious  even  to  mature  stomachs,  but  ruinous  to 
a  child's  digestion.  Ah,  dear  little  woman  !  will  it  be  a 
harder  task,  requiring  more  skill  and  patience,  to  take  your 
little  girl  on  your  lap,  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  every  day,  and 
show  her  how  to  hold  and  use  the  needle  ;  taking  the  warm, 
soft,  innocent  little  hands,  with  loving  caresses,  into  yours, 
and  guiding  the  tiny  fingers,  until  at  last  she  learns  to  put 
the  needle  through  the  cloth,  at  proper  distances,  unaided ; 
will  this  be  harder  or  more  tiresome  than  to  dress  and  worry 
over  your  little  one  till  she  is  drilled  in  dancing,  taught  to 
bow  and  covirtesy,  and  gracefully  accept  her  baby  partner's 
hand  in  the  dance  1  Will  it  give  you  no  pain  to  see  the  first 
development  of  envy,  jealousy,  and  ill  temper  forced  into 
active  growth  under  such  training  ?  Compare  this  toil  and 
responsibility  with  the  soft  and  loving  prattle  of  your  little 
girl,  as  she  nestles  in  your  lap,  and,  with  merry  laugh,  watches 
the  bright  needle  go  to  and  fro ;  and  when  at  last  she 
masters  one  stitch,  and  you  pronounce  it  ivell  done,  will  not 
her  shout  of  triumph  repay  the  teacher's  trouble  1  Will  it 
any  longer  be  a  work  to  dread  1  On  the  contrary,  will  you 
not  look  forward  to  that  daily  lesson  as  the  sweetest  duty  of 
the  day  ? 

"  All  this  sounds  very  pretty  ;  but  when  we  come  to  the 
reality,  ŌĆö  the  big  stitches,  the  long  stitches,  the  puckers  and 
gathers,  the  mistakes  and  vexatious  carelessness,  ŌĆö  how  many 
yards  of  cloth  will  be  Avasted  before  one  inch  of  decent 
sewing  can  be  accomplished  by  a  little  child '? " 

'Not  one.  Cut  out  a  little  block  of  patchwork.  Tell  the 
child  that  she  may  make  a  quilt  for  her  doll's  bed  just  as 
soon  as  she  can  do  it  Avell.  Use  pretty,  bright  colors.  Take 
her  on  your  lap,  and  show  her  hoAV  a  stitch  must  be  taken, 
making  merry,  gentle  speeches  to  her  as  the  Avork  goes  on. 


TEACHING   LITTLE  GIRLS  SO  SEW.  179 

"See,  pet,  you  must  take  up  two  of  these  threads  on  that 
side,- and  put  your  needle  through  two  more  on  the  other 
side,  then  pull  the  needle  through ;  that 's  one  stitch  ; 
mamma  did  that.  Now  let's  see  the  little  gi)i  take  one  just 
like  it.  No,  no  ;  let  mamma  hold  y(jur  hand  steady.  There, 
that 's  right.  Now  you  may  try  again.  8ee,  you  have  taken 
up  a  leetle  too  much  on  that  side.  We  '11  just  pull  that  out, 
1  think,  and  try  again.  It  was  pretty  well,  but  a  little  bit 
longer  than  the  last,  and  I  guess  Dolly  won't  quite  like  it ; 
so  we  '11  pull  it  out,  and  be  very  careful  next  time.  There, 
that 's  my  little  woman !  You  have  made  three  nice 
stitches,  and  we  will  put  up  the  sewing  now,  and  run  out 
doors  to  play.  When  papa  comes  home,  mamma  will  have 
to  show  these  pretty  stitches,  and  he  will  be  very  much 
pleased."  In  this  way,  it  will  not  be  many  weeks  before 
the  square  for  Dolly's  small  bed  will  be  finished,  and  you 
will  say,  "  My  little  daughter  has  done  it  so  very  nicely,  I 
think  we  will  have  to  make  another,  and  piece  the  two  to- 
gether to  make  a  bigger  quilt."  Before  a  year  passes,  we 
are  sure  you  will  have  a  quilt  large  enough  for  your  little 
girl's  own  bed,  every  stitch  well  done,  and  both  mother  and 
child  drawn  closer  together  and  made  happier  by  each  day's 
lessons.  It  is,  we  think,  a  great  mistake  while  teaching  a 
child  to  sew,  to  pass  over  very  poor  work,  simply  because 
you  think  after  awhile  she  will  learn  to  do  better ;  and  you 
will  throw  the  few  early  attempts  aside,  rather  than  be  at  the 
trouble  of  picking  out  imperfect  stitches.  Only  a  half-inch, 
or  three  or  four  stitches  a  day,  well  done,  is  a  great  gain. 
Be  gentle,  but  very  firm.  Do  not  drill  the  child  till  it  be- 
comes weary,  and  will  shrink  from  a  second  trial ;  but  yet, 
let  it  be  well  understood  that  every  stitch  must  be  perfect 
before  it  Avill  be  accepted,  and  then  be  lavish  of  praise  when 
the  effort  is  successful.  Do  not  destroy  the  child's  first  tvork, 
thus  carefully  done.     It  will  give  you  much  pleasure  when 


180      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

your  daughter  has  become  a  woman,  and  be  invaluable  to 
her  as  an  evidence  of  your  faithful  teachings  when  you  are 
forever  hid  from  her  eyes. 


XLIV. 
THE  CARE  OF  POULTRY. 

WE  make  no  pretense  to  any  great  skill  or  experience 
in  raising  poultry,  and  may  not  be  able  to  furnish 
satisfactory  answers  to  questions  which  have  been  sent  by 
some  of  our  readers  who  appear  wellnigh  discouraged  by 
repeated  failures ;  but  we  venture  a  few  suggestions  which, 
if  acted  upon,  will,  we  think,  in  part  at  least,  overcome  some 
portion  of  their  difficulties  and  perplexities,  and  may  be  ac- 
ceptable to  others  in  their  first  attempt. 

The  agricultural  papers  are  filled  with  descriptions  and  rec- 
ommendations of  many  fanciful,  and,  no  doubt,  very  excellent, 
heneries  and  poultry-yards.  We  have  very  little  acquaintance, 
however,  with  these  modern  improvements.  The  feAv  we  have 
seen  do  not  excite  our  enthusiasm,  and  we  cannot  see  that  the 
income  or  gain  in  any  degree  compensates  for  the  extra  expend- 
iture. We  do  not  learn  that  Nero's  horses  were  much  bene- 
fited when  fed  on  golden  oats  and  shod  with  shoes  of  the 
same  precious  metal ;  nor  do  we  believe  hens  sheltered  in 
sumptuous  palaces  will  be  more  productive  than  our  Leg- 
horns and  Cochins.  But  each  one  has  a  right  to  his  own 
peculiar  fancies ;  we  are  speaking  now  to  those  who  have 
not  yet  found  time  or  means  to  build  fancy  heneries,  but 
content  themselves  with  more  simple  arrangements. 

We  think  it  important,  if  possible,  to  have  a  good  yard 
and  commodious  hen-house,   in  which  laying,  setting,  and 


THE  CARE  OF   POULTRY.  181 

roosting  apartments  can  be  kept  separate.  These  conveni- 
ences cannot  always  be  secured  as  ample  and.  pleasant  as  is 
desirable  ;  but  however  simple  the  accommodations  may  be, 
it  is  indispensable  that  the  budding  be  kept  scrupulously 
clean  if  you  would  insure  success.  The  roost  requires  the 
most  care.  It  should  be  swept  out  once  a  week,  the  poles 
and  sides  being  well  brushed  off  with  a  stiff  broom,  and 
the  loose  feathers  and  droppings  from  under  the  poles  col- 
lected in  barrels,  removed  from  the  hen-house,  and  kept  dry. 
It  is  an  excellent  manure  or  guano,  and  very  valuable  when 
well  composted. 

The  same  care  is  needed  in  the  laying  and  setting  rooms. 
It  is  wise,  once  a  week,  to  take  all  the  straw  from  the 
nests,  brush  the  boxes  out  clean,  and  replenish  with 
fresh  straw.  A  little  ashes  or  a  few  bits  of  charcoal  put 
under  the  straw  helps  to  keep  the  nests  sweet.  The  old 
straw  and  filth  should  be  put  on  the  compost  heap.  In  the 
setting  apartment  the  nests  must  not  be  disturbed  till  the 
eggs  are  all  hatched,  and  the  little  chicks,  with  their  mother, 
removed.  Then  the  box  must  be  emptied,  well  washed, 
dried,  and  whitewashed,  ready  for  a  new  occupant. 

It  takes  time  and  some  trouble  to  keep  the  hen-house  and 
yard  always  clean  ;  but  it  Avell  repays  the  trouble,  and,  if 
weU  done  every  week,  Avill  really  take  less  time  than  to  have 
a  grand  clearing  up  once  or  twice  a  year.  These  clearing 
days  in  dwellings  or  outbuildings  are  great  nuisances  and 
torments,  making  every  one  cross  and  uncomfortable ;  but  if 
in  each  department  it  is  understood  that  everything  must 
always  be  put  into  its  appropriate  place,  and  that  once  a 
week  the  whole  is  to  be  tidied  up,  the  most  careless,  if  once 
tempted  to  try  the  experiment,  would  be  astonished  at  the 
increased  ease  of  the  labor,  and  the  pleasure  would  cer- 
tainly be  fourfold. 

Every  fall  and  spring  and  once  at  least  during  the  sum- 


182      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

mer  the  birds  should  all  be  turned  out  of  the  house  and 
yard,  that  the  inside  of  the  building  may  be  well  smoked 
Mdth  sulphur,  and  then  thoroughly  Avhitewashed,  to  secure 
the  destruction  of  the  vermin  and  the  good  health  of  the 
occupants.  A  day  should  be  selected  when  no  hens  are  sit- 
ting, and  then  some  charcoal  must  be  kindled  in  an  old  tin  or 
pan  kept  for  the  purpose  in  each  compartment,  and  some  bits 
of  sulphur  sprinkled  over  the  coals  when  well  burning.  This 
done,  shut  the  doors  and  windows  tightly,  and  leave  the 
sidphur  to  burn  out,  which  it  will  do  in  a  few  hours ;  then 
throw  open  the  doors  and  windo^7s  and  let  in  the  air.  After 
this,  every  part  must  be  weU  whitewashed,  filling  all  cracks, 
holes,  or  corners  ivith  the  wash,  ŌĆö  particularly  the  nests  or 
boxes  for  the  laying  and  sitting  hens.  Sprinkle  a  few  small 
bits  of  charcoal  in  the  nests,  when  dry,  to  keep  them  sweet  ; 
fill  them  with  fresh  straw,  and  recall  the  fowls  to  their  clean 
home. 

A  box  or  bin  of  wood-ashes  should  be  placed  in  one 
corner  of  the  roosting  apartment,  and  kept  always  filled,  and 
free  from  filth,  for  poultry  to  roU  in  and  free  themselves  from 
vermin  as  far  as  possible. 

The  roost  should  be  made  so  that  the  poles  can  be  raised 
or  let  down  at  pleasure.  In  the  winter,  have  the  poles 
raised  as  high  as  may  be,  as  the  heat  ascends,  and  the  fowls 
need  as  warm  a  place  as  possible  for  winter.  In  summer, 
lower  the  roost,  that  they  may  sleep  where  the  air  circulates 
freely.  If  possible,  provide  a  good  roomy  yard  back  of  the 
hen-house,  where  the  hens  may  have  ample  space  to  range. 
Plums  do  well  in  such  yards,  and  the  hens  do  much  toward 
destroying  the  curculio.  Old  pans  or  wooden  troughs  filled 
with  water  must  be  kept  in  the  yard,  that  the  hens  may  have 
drink  at  all  times.  If  you  have  plenty  of  skim-milk  or 
buttermilk,  they  Avill  be  grateful  for  all  you  can  spare,  and 
show  their  gratitude -by  the  increase  of  their  daily  offerings. 


THE   CARE   OF   POULTRY.  183 

Heaps  of  old  plaster  or  oyster-shells  must  be  kept  in  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  yard  ;  if  part  of  the  shells  can  be  burned 
and  pounded,  it  will  be  better.  Any  slops  from  the  house 
will  be  of  great  beneht ;  and  if  no  pigs  are  kept,  everything 
that  is  thrown  into  the  "  swill-pail,"  not  salt,  can  be  used  to 
advantage.  Keep  all  water  in  which  potatoes  and  vegetables 
are  boiled  ;  throw  their  paruigs  or  skins  into  it,  and  after 
each  meal  put  in  all  refuse  bits,  bring  this  water  to  a  boil, 
stir  in  a  handful  or  two  of  coarse  meal,  and  in  winter  feed  it 
to  the  hens  warm,  and  you  will  find  it  very  acceptable  and 
profitable.  Every  scrap  of  fresh  meat,  soup  bones,  but  no 
salt  meat,  Avill  do  them  good.  If  near  a  butcher's  shop,  he 
will  sell  you  for  a  few  pennies,  or  give  you,  the  "  lights  "  or  the 
head  of  one  of  the  animals.  Chop  it  up  and  throw  it  into 
the  poultry-yard.  Worms  and  grasshoppers  will  help  them 
througli  the  summer  months  ;  but  they  must  have  something 
in  the  way  of  fresh  meat  in  winter.  Every  morning  and 
evening  scatter  cracked  or  whole  corn  about  the  yard  iii  a 
clean  place.  In  picking  it  up,  they  will  take  with  it  a  little 
gravel,  which  is  very  necessary  to  keep  them  healthy. 

In  many  cases  it  is  not  convenient  or  thought  necessary 
to  provide  a  hen-house  and  yard,  all  the  poultry  being 
allowed  to  roam  at  will  over  the  premises.  A  little  care  will 
train  them  to  keep  from  doing  any  great  mischief  in  the 
gardens  ;  but  you  must  not  expect  too  much  ;  if  yoii  have 
grapes,  currants,  or  small  fruit,  these  will  be  too  tempting  for 
a  hen's  nature  to  resist,  and,  in  the  end,  it  will  be  found  to 
be  worth  considerable  sacrifice  of  time  and  money  to  place 
them  out  of  the  reach  of  temptation.  Besides,  if  they  are 
allowed  to  roam,  you  cannot  track  their  nests  at  all  times,  and 
you  will  be  left  without  an  egg  in  the  house  when  most 
needed.  With  very  little  care,  and  by  selecting  the  best  and 
most  reliable  breeds,  this  need  never  happen  where  hens  are 
kept  in  an  inclosure  and  with  a  suitable  house.     The  pure 


184      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Leghorns  molt  but  six  weeks  in  the  year,  ŌĆö  in  November 
and  December.  If  they  bring  out  their  broods  the  first  of 
April,  the  puUets  will  begin  to  lay  in  October,  just  as  their 
mothers  begin  to  molt.  If  hatched  in  August  or  early  Sep- 
tember, they  will  lay  by  the  first  of  April ;  so  that  part  of 
the  hens  will  be  laying  all  the  time.  Some  people  kill  off 
their  hens  as  soon  as  the  puUets  begin  to  lay,  thus  having  no 
molting  fowls  on  their  premises  ;  but  we  think  this  foolish. 
The  second  year's  eggs  are  usually  larger,  and  a  hen  may  be 
kept  profitably  for  three  or  four  years.  Our  own  experi- 
ments lead  us  to  think  the  White  Leghorns  and  Cochins  the 
best  layers. 


XLY. 

INSTITUTIONS  FOR  THE  EDUCATION    OF  WOMEN. 

YASSAR  is,  we  think,  the  first  college  for  women  ever 
established.  The  liberal  provision  for  its  mainte- 
nance, in  accordance  with  the  wishes  of  the  founder,  ŌĆö 
the  chapel,  library,  cabinet,  recitation-rooms ;  the  houses 
for  the  professors  ;  the  dormitories  for  the  students  ;  the 
dining-hall  and  kitchen  ;  the  laundry  and  the  bakehouse,  ŌĆö 
every  needed  accommodation,  are  all  completed  in  the  most 
approved  manner.  The  whole  is  heated  by  steam,  and 
lighted  by  gas.  Here  physical  culture  receives  all  the  care 
that  modern  science  and  experience  can  give.  A  floral  gar- 
den is  managed  by  the  young  ladies.  Gymnastic  exercises, 
horseback  riding,  driving,  boating,  or  skating  have  their  full 
share  of  encouragement  and  attention.  The  whole  establish- 
ment and  its  arrangements  are  most  excellent,  securing  a 
suitable  amount  of  exercise  to  insure  good  health,  and 
also  clear  heads  for  the  hours  devoted  to  study. 


INSTITUTIONS  FOR  THE  EDUCATION   OF  WOMEN.      185 

But  in  this  generous  provision  for  accomplishments  for 
our  young  daughters,  and  thorough  training  in  all  healthful 
exercise,  there  seems  to  have  been  one  department  entirely 
overlooked,  which  certainly  demands  a  large  share  of  atten- 
tion, and  where,  we  think,  faithful  instruction  in  the  rudi- 
ments should,  in  connection  with  other  departments,  begin 
in  the  earliest  and  most  simple  lessons,  with  the  full  under- 
standing that  it  must  go  hand  in  hand  with  other  branches 
through  the  whole  course.  We  mean  a  full  and  most  thor- 
ough instruction  in  all  that  belongs  to  domestic  economy 
and  household  lore. 

The  preparatory  instruction  and  full  collegiate  course,  in 
a  girl's  education,  should  embrace  more  years  than  are 
thought  necessary  to  prepare  a  boy  to  graduate  and  enter 
upon  the  duties  of  manhood,  because  we  are  sure  our  girls' 
minds  are  overburdened  by  an  attempt  to  crowd  too  many 
studies  into  each  year,  thus  keeping  them  constantly  hur- 
ried and  overtaxed.  They  have  many  things  to  do  Avhile  in 
school  that  boys  are  not  expected  to  do,  or,  at  any  rate, 
which  they  never  undertake.  No  young  lady,  we  trust, 
would  sit  down  to  her  studies,  in  the  morning,  until  her 
room  was  neatly  put  in  order.  Many  little  touches  are 
needed  to  secure  this,  which  they  cannot  depend  upon  a  cham- 
ber or  parlor  maid  to  do  well,  and  which  it  Avould  not  be 
consistent  with  womanly  neatness  to  leave  undone.  Tlien  a 
girl  has  her  wardrobe  to  watch  over ;  rips  to  mend,  but- 
tons to  replace,  and  numerous  other  things  which  a  boy  has 
done  for  him  or  leaves  undone.  In  girlhood  as  in  later 
life,  woman's  duties  are  more  complex  and  varied  than  man's. 
There  are  so  many  little  things,  insignificant  in  themselves, 
but  of  wonderful  importance,  in  that  skillful  combination 
which  must  be  woven  together  to  make  the  perfect  whole  in 
a  woman's  character,  that  it  is  unsafe  to  skim  lightly  over 
any.     Some  items   appear   very   trifling   and   unimportant, 


18G      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

when  Bot  viewed  as  connecting  links,  without  whose  aid  the 
whole  noble  structure  must  be  incomplete. 

ISTo  one  can  tell,  while  the  process  of  constructing  and 
perfecting  is  going  on,  through  what  deep  and  stormy  waters 
the  precious  bark,  once  launched,  may  be  compelled  to  force 
its  way.  Therefore  it  is  wise,  in  laying  the  foundations,  to 
be  sure  that  no  timber,  screw,  or  rivet,  however  insignificant  it 
may  seem  at  the  time,  has  been  discarded  or  insecurely  fastened. 

Even  if  it  could  be  guarantied  that  most  of  the  young 
ladies  who  graduate  from  our  excellent  seminaries  would 
never  be  placed  in  a  position  where  they  might  find  it  con- 
venient, if  not  necessary,  to  labor  to  secure  home  comforts, 
or  prepare  food  for  husband  or  children,  yet  there  is  no 
place  free  from  care,  where  it  would  not  be  more  conducive 
to  comfort  and  happiness  for  the  mistress,  not  only  to  know 
thoroughly  what  was  proper  to  be  done  about  the  bouse,  but 
also  to  know  how  to  do  it  herself,  should  it  ever  be  necessary. 
To  know  how  to  do  it  well  will  do  no  harm ;  not  knowing 
how  may  sometimes  subject  one  to  great  discomfort  and 
mortification. 

"We  once  called  on  a  lady  of  great  wealth.  Her  establish- 
ment and  style  of  living  demanded  a  large  retinue  of  ser- 
vants, who  received  the  highest  wages.  There  had  just  been 
some  disturbance  among  her  servants.  The  cook,  receiving 
forty  dollars  a  month,  imagined  that  her  subordinate  in  the 
kitchen  did  not  render  her  the  proper  assistance.  She,  the 
sub-cook,  was  quite  above  such  service  as  was  exacted, 
Neither  would  yield,  and  both  left.  The  waitress,  laundress, 
and  nurse  had  been  nursing  a  feud  for  some  time,  which 
only  needed  this  explosion  in  the  kitchen  and  the  atmos- 
phere it  engendered  to  develop  the  final  catastrophe.  The 
noise  and  smoke  of  the  battle  had  but  just  subsided  when 
we  rang  the  bell,  which  was  answered  by  the  lady  her- 
self with  a  laughing,  happy  face,  in  no  wise  ruffled  by  this 


INSTITUTIONS    FOR   THE   EDUCATION    OF   WOMEN.       187 

unusual  state  of  things.  After  our  errand  was  done,  she  was 
led  by  it  to  tell  us  a  merry  story  of  the  day's  experience. 

"  And  what  will  you  do  now  I " 

"  0,  I  have  sent  my  dressing  maid  to  the  nursery,  sent 
the  seamstress  to  look  for  others  to  replace  the  deserters,  and 
the  coachman  to  market.  I  will  attend  the  door  till  they 
return,  and  then  I  mean  to  surprise  my  husband  on  his  re- 
turn with  a  dinner  of  my  own  cooking.  Mother  used  to  let 
me  plo-y  cook  sometimes  when  I  was  young.  She  thought 
every  girl  should  at  least  know  how  to  get  a  dinner.  I 
learned  a  good  deal  then  which  I  think  I  have  not  forgotten, 
and  I  owe  it  to  her  that  this  little  disturbance,  the  first  I 
have  had,  does  n't  trouble  me  at  all." 

To  be  sure,  those  who  keep  but  one  or  two  servants  will 
think  that  she  had  but  little  to  disturb  her  while  a  dressing- 
maid,  seamstress,  and  coachman  were  on  hand.  But  we 
think  those  who  keep  the  greatest  number  of  servants  are 
the  most  to  be  pitied,  and  when  changes  come  it  requires 
much  patience  and  some  skill  to  rearrange  those  who  re- 
main, if  one  extra  step  is  demanded  of  them. 

We  know  two  little  girls  whose  mother  is  training  them 
to  meet  such  inconvenient  changes  when  they  are  women,  in 
the  same  independent  spirit.  They  have  a  large-sized  toy 
cool-inff-stove,  but  one  in  which  they  can  make  real  pies,  as  the 
little  ladies  say,  and  real  bread  and  real  cake  can  be  made  on  it, 
though  of  liliputian  size.  The  stove  is  kept  in  mother's 
room,  the  pipe  passing  into  the  nursery  flue.  They  have  a 
little  molding-board  and  rolling  pin,  and  aU  needed  imple- 
ments on  a  small  scale,  and  no  richer  reward  can  be  given 
than  to  be  allowed  to  bake  a  cake,  or  something  of  their 
own  making,  to  be  placed  on  the  family  table.  Of  course 
they  work  lender  mother's  eye  and  by  her  instructions,  and 
in  later  years  these  little  girls  will  thank  their  mother  for 
this  early  teaching. 


188      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

This  playing  cook  is  an  easy  and  pleasant  way  of  teaching 
Httle  girls  the  first  lessons,  and  if,  as  in  other  days,  they 
were  fully  taught  at  home  the  very  important  accomplish- 
ment of  housekeeping  by  their  mothers,  there  wovdd  be  no 
necessity  for  a  union  of  domestic  and  intellectual  institutions 
in  our  schools  and  seminaries  ;  but,  unfortunately,  very  few, 
comparatively,  of  the  mothers  of  the  present  day  have 
health  to  teach  their  daughters  as  thoroughly  as  would  be 
satisfactory  or  available ;  or,  if  health  be  given,  the  dispo- 
sition to  devote  their  time  and  attention  to  the  matter  is 
wanting.  For  this  reason  we  see  no  better  way  than  to  have 
this  part  of  our  girls'  education  incorporated,  if  possible, 
with  the  other  branches  taught  in  schools  and  colleges,  so 
that  sewing,  sweeping,  washing,  and  cooking  ŌĆö -  aU  minutia? 
of  household  knowledge  ŌĆö  may  be  as  fully  taught  as  reading, 
writing,  or  the  so-called  higher  studies ;  or,  if  this  union  is 
not  possible,  at  least  the  domestic  education  might  be  made  a 
supplementary  course,  ŌĆö  the  scholars  understanding  that  no 
one  can  "  graduate "  until  she  has  passed  through  that  de- 
partment. 

We  fear  the  good  old  times  of  mother-teaching  -v\dll  not 
very  soon  be  revived,  and  our  idea  of  uniting  this  important 
part  of  woman's  education  with  that  which  is.thought  higher 
and  more  intellectual  arose  from  the  impression  that,  if  not 
in  some  way  instructed  in  home  duties,  our  girls  in  the 
course  of  four  or  five  years  of  sedentary  life  would  acquire  a 
distaste  for  more  active  employment,  or,  having  destroyed 
their  health  by  injurious  and  long-continued  apphcation, 
would  be  utterly  incapacitated  for  it. 

We  offer  these  suggestions  in  the  hope  that  the  attention 
of  some  of  our  progressive  spirits  may  be  called  to  this  sub- 
ject with  more  eff'ective  earnestness  than  has  been  shown. 


GREAT   MISTAKES.  189 

XLVI. 

GREAT  MISTAKES. 

'TT'T'HEN  tliG  weatlier  becomes  so  warm  that  furnaces 
VV  and  large  fires  can  be  dispensed  with,  the  regular 
"  spring  cleaning  "  is  usually  commenced  in  earnest.  Until 
then,  the  most  perfect  housekeeper  cannot  prevent  the  accu- 
mulation of  ashes  or  fine  dust,  which,  ascending  from  the 
furnace  or  stove  below  with  each  morning's  renewal,  will 
find  a  lodgment  in  carpets-  and  furniture,  and  can  be  fully- 
removed  only  by  a  longer  process  than  can  be  given  weekl3\ 
"Were  it  not  that  the  carpets  and  furniture  would  be  utterly 
ruined  by  the  insensible  deposit  of  dust  and  ashes  in  the 
winter,  and  by  flies,  spiders,  damps,  and  mold  of  the  sum- 
mer, which  by  fall  have  been  too  much  for  the  most  vigi- 
lant care,  the  great  domestic  terror  over  which  gentlemen  so 
pathetically  lament  ŌĆö  a  general  "  house-cleaning  "  ŌĆö  could 
easily  be  dispensed  with.  Without  those  special  troubles, 
we  could  get  along,  by  good  management,  with  but  very  lit- 
tle general  disturbance  of  the  regidar  routine  of  household 
cares,  and  no  derangement  of  family  comfort  but  what  the 
most  fastidious  could  patiently  and  cheerfully  submit  to. 

The  last  touch  to  the  perfect  purification  of  the  house,  in 
the  estimation  of  many  notable  housekeepers,  is  to  have  the 
fireplace  or  grate  brightly  polished,  and  the  bricks  on  the 
back  and  sides  either  whitewashed  or  painted  (slate,  drab, 
or  some  neutral  color),  and  this  once  satisfactorily  accom- 
plished, they  are  very  sensitive  if  any  wish  is  expressed  to 
have  a  fire  kindled  again  before  fall,  preferring  to  risk 
fevers  or  any  of  the  malarial  troubles  so  likely  to  result 
from  damp  or  cool  nights  and  mornings,  rather  than  see 


190      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

their  clean,  nicely  painted  grates  blackened  by  the  action  of 
fire. 

l^ow,  we  cannot  but  think  this  is  a  great  mistake.  So 
much  sickness  and  suffering  may,  we  are  convinced,  be  pre- 
vented by  kindling  a  small  fire  every  night  and  morning, 
that  all  pleasure  in  the  beauty  of  fresh,  pretty-colored  grates 
and  fireplaces  is  lost  in  the  knowledge  of  the  price  paid  for 
it,  Ō¢Ā  A  well  blackened  grate  has  more  attractions  for  us,  as  it 
speaks  of  dry  rooms,  rosy  cheeks,  and  good  health,  whereas 
unused  and  spotless  bricks  tell  of  rheumatism,  chills  and 
fever,  and  pale,  sallow  faces. 

We  first  learned  the  great  importance  of  these  morning 
and  evening  fires  at  the  West,  and  should  have  been  thank- 
ful to  have  learned  it  by  an  easier  way  than  through  the 
rough  school  of  experience.  What  was  a  good  theory  and 
better  practice  in  the  new  Western  life  is  equally  beneficial 
in  any  locality  where  cool  nights  and  mornings  precede  and 
follow  each  day,  or  where  sudden  changes  from  dry  to  damp 
or  rainy  weather  may  be  expected.  It  is  not  at  all  necessary 
or  wise  in  warm  weather  to  build  large  fires  that  will  heat  a 
room.  Only  so  much  is  needed  as  will  suffice  to  dispel  the 
chill  damp  of  the  atmosphere,  of  which  one  is  usually  con- 
scious on  entering  a  room  early  in  the  morning  or  soon  after 
nightfall.  A  few  sticks  of  light  wood  or  a  small  fagot  of 
brush  will  suffice.  In  the  city  it  is  not  always  easy  to  find 
material  for  this  purpose  ;  but  in  the  country,  whether  in  an 
old  place  or  new,  there  is  no  difficulty,  and  no  excuse  for 
neglect.  Small  sticks,  and  any  quantity  of  brush,  from  con- 
stantly needed  repairs  or  pruning,  are  always  scattered  about, 
which,  if  not  daily  gathered  up,  will  soon  accumulate,  tiU 
heaps  of  unsightly  rubbish  will  meet  the  eye  at  every  turn. 
If  only  for  the  sake  of  neatness,  and  to  save  time,  all  this 
should  be  daily  removed.  It  is  not  much  labor,  and  a  very 
short  time  is  sufficient.     If  you  have  young  boys  or  girls 


GREAT  MISTAKES.  191 

with  you,  rightly  trained  to  be  useful,  an  hour  or  two  of  out- 
door labor  wull  give  them  pleasant  and  healthful  occupation. 
Provide  them  with  a  child's  saw-horse  and  saw,  a  small, 
light  hatchet,  and  a  ball  of  strings,  and  let  them  daily  go  out 
and  collect  such  brush  as  may  be  lying  around.  Show  them 
how  to  cut  it  in  proper  lengths,  and  to  tie  the  fagots  neatly. 
Then  they  can  easily,  with  a  light  wheelbarrow,  take  them 
to  the  wood-house  or  shed,  and  pile  them  ready  for  use.  A 
half-hour's  or  an  hour's  work  every  day  will  do  this,  and  the 
young  follvs  will  not  feel  it  a  burden.  But  if  left  a  week  or 
two,  the  brush  becomes  tangled,  the  heap  grows  larger,  and 
what  should  be  only  pleasant  recreation  becomes  a  burden, 
perhaps  really  too  heavy  for  children  to  undertake,  and  either 
a  man's  time  must  be  given  to  the  work,  or  industry  and 
labor  be  made  repulsive  to  the  young.  That  is  also  a  great 
mistake.  But  by  having  this  work  regularly  done,  at  certain 
hours  daily,  by  your  children,  a  threefold  good  may  be  gained  : 
the  house,  grounds,  and  surroundings  can  be  kept  free  from 
disagreeable  litter ;  the  means  secured  at  the  same  time,  with 
little  labor  and  no  cost,  to  preserve  a  healthful  atmosphere 
all  through  the  house ;  and  your  children  taught  a  lesson  in 
neatness  and  industry  which  they  will  not  in  after  years  for- 
get, and  which,  whatever  their  position  in  life,  will  always 
be  valuable. 

Wliile  among  the  pines  and  palmettos  in  the  newly  set- 
tled parts  of  Florida,  we  looked  with  envious  eyes  on  the 
"  fat  wood,"  as  it  is  called,  which  lies  around  the  clearings 
in  the  greatest  abundance.  A  few  small  sticks  from  these  pine 
knots,  at  the  first  touch  of  a  match,  start  into  a  wonderfully 
bright  flame,  before  which,  while  it  lasts,  the  light  of  our  best 
kerosene  lamps  is  obscured,  and  the  morning  and  evening 
dampness  is  expelled,  so  that  comfortable  but  not  heated  air 
is  secured.  We  were  pleased  to  see  in  these  brilliant  fires, 
regularly  kindled,  strong  proof  of  good  common-sense. 


192      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

We  believe  fuU  half  the  sickness  which  abounds  in  newly 
settled  countries  or  in  malarial  districts  could  bo  entirely  pre- 
vented by  this  easy,  sirai^le  practice.  At  any  rate,  it  would 
certainly  be  quite  as  effectual  as  the  innumerable  and  abomina- 
ble doses  which  each  section  of  country  accepts  as  the  only 
cure  ;  and  it  would  have  the  advantage  of  being  a  pleasant 
remedy,  warranted  not  to  produce  some  disease  far  worse 
than  the  first. 

Another  great  mistake  is  the  exclusion  of  sunlight  from 
our  houses.  We  have  spoken  of  this  some  time  since,  and 
wish  the  importance  of  admitting  the  light  of  the  sun  freely, 
as  well  as  building  these  early  and  late  fires,  could  be  prop- 
erly impressed  upon  our  housekeepers.  No  article  of  furni- 
ture should  ever  be  brought  to  our  homes  too  good  or  too 
delicate  for  the  sun  to  see  aU  day  long.  His  presence  should 
never  be  excluded,  except  when  so  bright  as  to  be  uncom- 
fortable to  the  eyes.  And  a  walk  in  good,  bright  sunlight,  be- 
fore the  heat  is  too  intense,  is  very  beneficial,  so  that  the  eyes 
are  protected  by  veil  or  parasol  when  the  light  is  inconven- 
iently strong.  A  sun-hath  is  of  far  more  importance  in  preserv- 
ing a  healthful  condition  of  the  body  than  is  generally  under- 
stood. A  sun-bath  costs  nothing,  and  that  is  a  misfortune,  for 
people  are  deluded  with  the  idea  that  those  things  only  can 
be  good  or  useful  which  cost  money.  But  remember  that 
pure  water,  fresh  air,  sunlight,  and  homes  kept  free  from 
dampness,  will  secure  you  from  many  heavy  bills  of  the  doc- 
tors, and  give  you  health  and  vigor,  which  no  money  can 
procure.  It  is  a  weU-established  fact  that  people  who  live 
much  in  the  sun  are  usually  stronger  and  more  healthy  than 
those  whose  occupations  deprive  them  of  sunlight. 


STUDY   TO   MAKE  HOME  ATTKACTIVE.  193 

XLVIL 
STUDY  TO   MAKE  HOME  ATTRACTIVE. 

IN  planning  and  furnishing  a  house,  young  people  too 
often  sacrifice  true  taste  and  their  own  conscience  for 
style  ;  forgetting  that  they  should  arrange  a  home  for  com- 
fort, not  for  a  temple  of  fashion.  So  large  a  portion  of  the 
money  set  apart  for  the  whole  outlay  is  expended  in  adorn- 
ing their  parlors,  ŌĆö  the  only  part  of  a  house  which  is,  in  a 
measure,  public  property,  - ŌĆö  that  they  are  compelled  to  cheat 
themselves  out  of  much  comfort  and  convenience,  when  they 
come  to  the  furnishing  of  the  real  home,  or  family  rooms, 
unless  possessed  of  wealth  so  abundant  that  expense  be- 
comes a  secondary  consideration.  We  think  the  family  sitting 
and  dining  rooms  shoidd  receive  more  thought  and  care  than 
any  other  part  of  the  house.  Neatness,  of  course,  should  be 
preserved  everywhere,  and  the  parlors  be  furnished  with  as 
much  of  style  and  fashion  as  your  means  will  warrant  your 
expending  to  meet  your  own  desires,  or  in  deference  to  public 
opinion,  if  you  are  at  all  inclined  to  cater  to  its  gratification. 
In  your  chambers  study  neatness  and  convenience,  and  also 
in  the  kitchen  ;  but  when  you  turn  to  the  sitting  and  dining 
rooms,  give  yourself  abundance  of  time  to  deliberate  over 
everything  connected  with  these  apartments,  and,  after  due 
consideration,  begin  the  work,  which,  if  rightly  understood, 
will  be  a  toil  of  pleasure,  ŌĆö  a  labor  of  love,  never  ending  ; 
because  every  week  some  pretty  device  or  fanciful  change  or 
addition  will  occur  to  you,  by  which  you  can  add' to  its  sim- 
ple attractions,  thereby  giving  yourself  great  pleasure,  and 
filling  your  heart  with  happy  thoughts.  From  the  tone  of 
the  letter  and  question  prompting  this  chapter,  we  should 

9  M 


194      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

not  class  its  writer  with  those  who  desire  a  position  among 
the  "  fashionables,"  whose  greatest  pleasure  lies  in  parties, 
balls,  and  theaters,  or  a  ceaseless  round  of  "  calls,"  and  who 
would  be  made  perfectly  miserable  if  compelled  by  any  cir- 
cumstance to  pass  a  quiet  evening  at  home,  with  nobody  hxd 
their  husband.  For  such  there  is  no  home.  That  word  be- 
longs to  an  unknown  tongue,  which  their  hearts  can  never 
interpret. 

We  are  not  at  all  in  sympathy  with  those  who  take  it  for 
granted  that  the  husband  is  always  the  most  to  be  blamed, 
if  the  club-house  or  any  outside  companionship  has  more 
attractions  than  his  own  home.  When  the  "  twain  are  made 
one  flesh,"  if  the  union  is  consummated  through  love,  and 
not  from  mercenary  reasons,  the  heart  of  the  husband  will  be 
drawn  most  naturally,  in  his  leisure  hours,  toward  the  com- 
panion he  has  chosen  from  aU  others  ;  and  in  these  early 
days  it  rests  chiefly  with  her  to  make  all  the  surroundings 
of  the  home  committed  to  her  care  so  attractive  that  his 
steps  turn  thitherward,  because  nowhere  else  can  he  secure 
such  true  comfort  and  solid  happiness.  Having  so  begun,  if 
you  continue  thus  to  cast  your  spells  about  him,  here  in  this 
pleasant  sitting-room,  young  wife,  he  will  always  prefer  to 
spend  his  leisure  hours  where  your  skill  and  taste  make  it 
more  bright  and  restful  than  any  other  resort  can  be.  Now, 
in  the  earliest  days  of  your  wedded  life,  before  other  cares 
engross  your  time  and  thoughts,  you  have  the  opportunity 
to  make  home  a  word  of  sacred  meaning,  to  learn  its  true  na- 
ture yourself,  and  to  gather  around  it  associations  that  shall  be 
lasting,  and  a  safeguard  through  life. 

It  is  not  by  the  "  great  sacrifices,"  or  "  heroic  devotion," 
which  you  speak  of,  that  this  blessing  can  be  secured ;  but 
by  little  things  ŌĆö  daily  acts  ŌĆö  the  work  must  be  begun  and 
the  building  established  on  a  firra  foundation.  Bear  this  in 
mind  constantly  wliile  planning  the  room,  selecting  the  fur- 


STUDY  TO   MAKE   HOME  ATTRACTIVE.  195 

niture,  aiid  arranging  the  many  trifles  that,  combined,  make 
a  sitting-room  peculiarly  attractive.  Secure,  if  possible,  a 
southern  or  eastern  lookout,  or  both  united.  Select  pictures 
that  are  home-like,  even  if  not  the  elaborate  work  of  some 
great  artist ;  those  do  not  always  give  the  greatest  pleasure. 
Flowers  and  vines  about  the  room  or  in  the  windows  add 
wonderfully  to  the  cheerfulness  of  any  room,  and  to  this 
particularly.  Have  neat,  white  shades  to  exclude  the  sun 
partially  during  the  mid-day  hours,  and  outside  blinds  to 
keep  curiosity  from  sharing  your  evening  enjoyments.  A 
book  and  piano  are  always  desirable  in  a  family  room,  even 
if  you  have  a  grand  piano  for  your  parlors.  Select  the 
easiest  and  most  comfortable  lounges  and  chairs,  taking  time 
to  look  in  several  manufactories  before  you  decide  ;  for  hard, 
unyielding  sofas  and  chairs  are  only  fit  for  show  or  torture 
rooms.  A  commodious  table  for  books,  and  gas  or  lamps, 
suitable  for  writing,  with  convenient  drawers  to  hold  all 
necessary  writing-material,  and  your  own  work-stand  in  the 
corner,  are  essential.  These  are  always  useful  and  conven- 
ient ;  but  it  is  not  needful  that  we  go  into  elaborate  specifica- 
tions. Your  own  taste  and  love,  if  you  set  about  the  work 
in  the  right  spirit,  will  teach  you  better  than  any  one  else 
can  do.  Arrange  the  necessary  articles  and  all  the  em- 
belhshments  with  care  and  thought,  so  that  when  you  stand 
at  the  door  and  survey  the  work,  the  room  shall  lie  before 
you  like  a  picture,  speaking  of  cheerfulness,  rest,  and  com- 
fort. Here,  if  you  show  your  husband,  from  the  first,  that 
you  are  always  interested  in  his  outside  labors  and  duties,  he 
will  gladly  come  to  talk  over  the  day's  doings  ;  and  it  will 
not  take  long  to  teach  him  that  a  good,  true  wife  is  the  best 
adviser  he  can  have,  ŌĆö  that  his  business  knowledge  and  your 
womanly  insight  and  tact,  united,  will  solve  dubious  questions, 
and  unravel  troublesome  tangles,  quite  as  safely  and  far  more 
pleasantly  than  any  assistance  and  advice  sought  outside  of 


19G      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

home.  And  in  after  life,  think  you,  will  it  not  be  pleasant 
to  look  back  and  trace  much  of  your  happiness  to  the  fasci- 
nations and  attractions  you  so  skillfully  gathered  about  the 
pleasant  sitting-room,  when  you,  as  "  young  people,"  took 
sweet  counsel  together,  and  laid  the  foundation  for  mutual 
confidence  and  true  domestic  peace  ?  Had  you  secured  the 
most  elegant  parlors,  but  left  this  room  cold  and  barren,  neg- 
ligently kept,  and  destitute  of  any  special  attraction,  do 
you  think  your  prospects  of  happiness  would  have  been  as 
bright  1  Or  can  you  feel  that  you  would  deserve  that 
they  should  be  1  It  is  your  work,  young  wife,  to  make  the 
hom,e.  Your  husband  may  provide  and  furnish  the  means, 
but  it  is  for  you  to  see  that  they  are  used  for  mutual  happi- 
ness. 

Next  to  the  sitting-room,  the  dining-room  must  be  the  most 
carefully  arranged.  Strange  how  few  give  heed  to  this  !  It  is 
sometimes  a  low,  dark,  ill-constructed  room,  reached  by  stairs 
often  unsafe  by  reason  of  darkness,  and  usually  opening  so 
abruptly  to  the  kitchen  that  the  appetite  is  destroyed  the 
moment  you  enter  by  the  fumes  from  cooking  which  have 
been  gathering  in  the  dining-room  all  the  morning  ;  and  the 
pleasant  intercourse  which  should  enliven  each  meal  is  often 
sadly  interrupted  by  overmuch  talking  from  the  adjacent 
kitchen.  If  there  ever  is  dispute  or  misfortune  there,  it 
seems  always  destined  to  occur  while  you  are  at  your  table. 
Our  city  dining-rooms  are  too  frequently  after  this  pattern. 
Here  is  some  excuse  ;  for  we  must  expect,  in  one  way  or  an- 
other, to  be  "  cabined,  cribbed,  and  confined  "  in  the  city ;  but 
in  the  free,  bright  country,  there  can  seldom  be  any  such  ex- 
cuse given,  and  yet  the  same  heedlessness  with  regard  to  any- 
thing pleasant  in  the  position  of  the  dining-room  is  notice- 
able. Opening  into  a  back  yard  or  clothes-yard,  or  overlooking 
the  barn-yard,  with  nothing  attractive  or  cheerful,  ŌĆö  this  is 
thought  good  enough  for  a  place  to  feed  in.     A  very  great 


STUDY   TO   MAKE  HOME  ATTRACTIVE.  197 

mistake  ;  for  here  we  shoiild  meet,  not  to  eat  hastily,  and 
rise  up  and  go  our  ways,  biit  there  should  be  quite  as  much 
enjoyment  in  free  and  cheerful  conversation  at  the  table  as 
can  possibly  be  secured  during  the  mere  act  of  eating.  A 
friend  occasionally  drops  in ;  and  when  children  are  gath- 
ered about  the  board,  their  little  winning  ways  and  delight- 
ful prattle  add  wonderfully  to  the  pleasure  of  the  repast. 
Our  American  men,  when  actively  engaged  in  business,  as  a 
large  proportion  of  them  are,  often  find  the  breakfast  and 
dinner  hours  the  only  parts  of  the  day  when  they  can  see 
their  children.  It  is  time  little  folks  were  asleep,  generally, 
before  the  father  closes  his  labors  and  returns  home  for  tea. 
For  that  reason,  if  for  no  other,  the  dining-room,  in  every 
family,  as  being  the  place  where,  except  on  Sunday,  the  chil- 
dren will  have  the  best  opportunity  of  seeing  their  father, 
should  be  made  bright,  cheerful,  and  peculiarly  attractive  ; 
because  it  will  be  more  closely  associated  in  their  minds  with 
his  presence.  As  they  grow  older,  they  should  be  taught  to 
give  their  aid  in  arranging  fruit  and  flowers  for  the  decoration 
of  the  table  and  side- board  before  each  meal,  "because  papa 
will  soon  be  here." 

You  may  think  these  are  all  such  little  things,  that  you 
cannot  conceive  it  possible  they  should  be  of  much  im- 
portance in  arranging  a  house,  or  making  home  happy, 
and  will  probably  feel  that  your  question  has  been  unsatis- 
factorily answered.  But,  dear  "  young  wife,"  believe  me,  it  is 
by  little  things  that  you  must  make  the  house,  now  commit- 
ted to  your  charge,  a  happy  one,  and  so  attractive  to  your 
husband  that  he  can  have  no  wish  to  seek  pleasure  elsewhere. 
It  is  not  by  any  great  effort  once  in  a  while,  but  by  tlie  con- 
stant, daily  evidence  of  your  thoughtfulness  and  care,  that 
you  will  secure  the  confidence  and  companionship  you  are  so 
earnestly  desiring  and  seeking  after. 


198      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   UOUSEKEEPEUS. 

XLVITI. 

THE  CAKE  OF  COOKING-STOVES  AND  RANGES. 

NEXT  to  perplexities  and  trouble  with  servants,  there 
is  nothing  that  so  severely  afflicts  the  careful  house- 
keeper as  the  attempt  to  secure  attention  to  the  cooking-stove 
or  range.  The  reasons  given  for  failure  in  any  particular  point 
are  innumerahle,  and  all  cast  the  burden  of  blame  on  the 
poor,  inoffensive  stove.  There  never  was  such  a  miserable 
cooking-stove.  The  fire  won't  burn,  or  it  burns  too  fiercely ; 
the  oven  won't  bake  at  all,  or  bakes  so  furiously  that  every- 
thing you  trust  to  it  is  ruined.  It  smokes,  or  the  gas  escapes, 
and  fills  the  house  with  the  offensive  odors  ;  it  burns  out  more 
coal  in  one  day  than  should  be  used  in  two ;  the  dampers 
are  useless,  or  the  grate  cannot  be  turned  over.  There  is 
scarcely  a  defect  to  be  imagined  but  is  charged  to  this  neces- 
sary evil,  ŌĆö  the  cooking-stove  or  range. 

In  part,  no  doubt,  these  ceaseless  annoyances  spring  from 
the  heedlessness  or  ignorance  of  the  servants,  but  more  fre- 
quently, we  think,  it  is  because  the  mistress  herself  does  not 
understand  the  cause  of  the  difficulty,  or  how  to  point  out 
and  remedy  the  mistakes.  It  is  impossible  to  expect  a  girl 
will  be  successful  in  managing  the  fire  and  stove  unless  you 
are  competent  and  willing  to  give  her  full  instruction,  and  are 
also  ready  to  follow  this  up  with  constant  daily  supervision, 
until  time  and  a  faithful  trial  convince  you  that  the  subject 
is  fully  understood,  and  your  injunctions  regularly  followed. 
Even  then  watch,  with  all  kindness  and  patience,  not  with  a 
fault-finding  spirit,  but  because  carelessness  and  forgetfulness 
are  bound  up  in  the  heart  of  almost  every  servant,  and  cease- 
less vigilance  is  your  only  protection  from  mistakes  of  the 


THE  CARE  OF  COOKING-STOVES  AND   RANGES.       199 

most  mortifying  and  vexatious  character  ;  and  do  you  not 
know  that  such  trials  always  come  at  the  most  unexpected 
and  inconvenient  time  1  No  doubt  there  are  occasionally 
servants  found,  or  heard  of,  who  are  faithful,  careful,  compe- 
tent, and  safe  to  be  trusted  in  every  particular ;  but  they 
are,  "  like  angels'  visits,  few  and  far  between "  ;  and  it  is 
wise  for  every  housekeeper  to  be  as  exact  in  her  explanations, 
and  as  watchful  in  seeing  them  executed,  as  if  she  knew  her 
girl  was  totally  ignorant  of  everything  about  the  stove  or 
range,  until  well  convinced  that  she  fully  understands  and 
regularly  carries  out  her  mistress's  lessons.  Then,  if  she  fails, 
it  is  safe  to  look  upon  the  failure  as  culpable  negligence,  for 
which  it  would  be  very  difficult  to  find  a  reasonable  excuse. 
Simply  telling  a  servant  how  you  wish  the  stove  managed, 
or  anytliing  else  done,  is  by  no  means  sufficient.  To  say  to 
the  new  cook,  "  Bridget,  I  wish  you  to  be  very  particular  in 
cleaning  out  your  range  or  stove  every  night  before  retiring, 
and  have  your  kindlings  and  coal  aU  laid  ready  to  start  a  fire 
in  the  morning,"  will  not  secure  obedience.  The  answer 
V,  ill  doubtless  be,  "  0  yes,  mem,  I  always  do  that."  Per- 
haps once  in  a  great  while  you  may  find  a  cook  that  will  do 
this  regularly  ;  for  it  certainly,  if  they  wiU  only  try  it,  is  the 
easiest  way.  But  take  nothing  on  trust.  See  with  your 
own  eyes  before  you  retire  how  much  this  ahvays  means. 
Too  often  it  should  be  translated,  "  when  it  suits  my  con- 
venience." Perhaps  for  a  short  time  it  may  be  done  in 
accordance  with  your  wishes  ;  but  keep  open  eyes,  or  nine 
times  ovit  of  ten,  in  less  than  a  month,  you  will  be  told,  "  I 
can't  do  anjiihing  with  the  range  or  stove."  "  Have  you 
thoroughly  cleaned  it  out  each  night  as  I  directed  1 "  "  O 
,  yes,  mem  ;  of  course  I  have."  N"ow,  either  go  to  work  your- 
self and  see  what  is  the  matter,  which  is  the  best  way,  or 
send  for  a  man  from  a  stove  manufactory  to  examine.  Stand 
by  with  the  cook  to  see  the  results  of  his  examination.     Of 


200      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

course  the  lire  must  be  all  out  before  he  can  do  anything. 
He  will  then  remove  every  cover  from  the  top,  and  most  likely 
find  the  whole  surface  perfectly  clogged  up  with  small  bits 
of  coal  and  piles  of  ashes,  so  that  the  draught  is  obstructed  ; 
or,  if  the  difficulty  does  not  lie  there  mainly,  he  will  take  out 
the  slide  to  the  pit  under  the  oven,  and,  notwithstanding 
cook's  assurances  that  it  is  regtJarly  cleaned  out,  you  will  find 
it  filled  with  ashes  up  to  the  oven  bottom  ;  or  the  grate  has 
been  so  imperfectly  emptied  and  cleaned  that  it  is  broken, 
and  clogged  with  clinlcers,  leaving  hardly  room  to  make  a 
fire  in  it.  I^ow  you  have  the  whole  mystery  solved.  All 
the  girl's  protestations  and  assurances  of  great  care  in  keep- 
ing the  stove  in  perfect  order  cannot  longer  bhnd  your  eyes. 
A  few  such  examples  may  not  insure  cook's  future  attention 
and  truthfulness,  but  they  will  teach  you,  that  as  the  foot 
of  the  master  is  the  only  warrant  for  large  crops  on  a  farm, 
or  successful  operations  in  any  pursuit,  so  the  eye  and  hand 
of  the  mistress  must  ever  be  most  vigilant  and  effective  to 
secure  comfort  in  the  house. 

There  is  no  one  convenience  on  which  so  large  a  part  of 
house  comfort  depends  as  on  a  good  cooking-apparatxis, 
whether  in  the  form  of  stove  or  range  ;  and  however  perfect 
the  patent,  nothing  can  so  easily  be  put  out  of  working 
order  by  careless  management.  Before  starting  a  new  fire, 
examine  if  the  stove  has  been  thoroughly  cleaned  from  the 
last  one  ;  then  open  the  dampers  ;  roll  up  and  put  into  the 
grate  a  few  pieces  of  paper,  ŌĆö  or  some  shavings,  if  you  can 
have  them,  are  still  better  ;  lay  lightly  on  this  some  splinters 
or  small  bits  of  kindling  wood.  Do  not  throw  them  on  in 
a  heavy  mass,  but  so  arrange  them  as  to  give  free  breathing- 
holes  ;  on  this  foundation  put  a  few  larger  pieces  of  pine 
kindling,  and  if  you  are  hurried,  and  need  a  quick,  bright 
fire,  sprinkle  over  a  small  shovelful  of  cohe,  if  you  have  it. 
JSTothing  kindles  quicker  than  coke.     ISTow  replace  all  the 


THE  CARE   OF   COOKING-STOVES  AND  RANGES.      201 

covers,  and  set  tiro  to  the  paper  with  a  match,  held  under- 
neath the  grate.  If  lighted  from  ahove,  it  must  be,  of  course, 
before  the  covers  are  put  on,  and  that  tills  the  kitchen  with 
smoke.  When  the  wood  is  well  blazing,  before  at  all  wasted, 
take  off  the  covers  and  cross-piece  (the  paper  will  have 
Inirned  out  by  that  time,  and  little  smoke  will  trouble  you), 
and  pour  on  the  hard  coal,  scattering  it  evenly  at  the  sides, 
but  a  little  heaped  or  rounded  in  the  center.  Be  careful  that 
the  grate  is  not  filled  above  the  fire-brick.  This  is  a  very 
important  consideration,  for  if  heaped  above,  it  injures  the 
stove,  burning  out  the  iron-work,  and  obstructing  the  draught, 
so  that  the  coal  cannot  kindle  readily,  but  wastes  and  smol- 
ders without  doing  much  good.  As  soon  as  the  coal  is  well 
kindled,  close  the  draughts,  or  dampers,  and  you  will  have  a 
clear,  serviceable  fire.  It  is  a  great  mistake  to  use  a  large 
amount  of  paper  or  kindling.  The  paper,  when  burnt  out, 
makes  a  smothering,  black  kind  of  ashes,  that  deadens  the 
fire,  and  the  pine  kindling,  if  used  too  profusely,  fills  the 
stove  with  so  much  bituminous  smoke  as  to  clog  the  pipes 
needlessly. 

"When  your  breakfast  is  dished  and  sent  to  the  table,  tell 
the  cook  to  raise  a  cover  from  the  stove,  and  see  if  it  would 
not  be  well  to  add  a  small  shovelful  of  coal  to  keep  the  fire 
in  good  working  order ;  but  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  open 
the  draughts  until  the  breakfast  is  over  and  the  dishes  washed 
and  pu.t  away.  When  that  is  done,  it  will  be  time  to  begin 
arrangements  for  dinner,  and  then  the  draiights  should  be 
opened  a  few  minutes,  and  the  fire  raked  down  or  shaken,  so 
as  to  remove  all  the  ashes  ;  but  ov,  no  account  stir  it  from 
the  top ;  that  kills  the  fire,  turning  the  coals  black.  The 
ashes  being  removed,  lift  otf  the  two  front  covers  and  the 
cross-piece  once  more  ;  pour  on  more  coal,  always  remember- 
ing not  to  fill  above  the  fire-brick.  The  object  in  lifting  off 
both  covers  and  cross-bar,  instead  of  pouring  in  the  coal  at 
9* 


202      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

one  hole,  and  pushing  it  across  with  the  poker,  as  most  girls 
do,  is  to  prevent  the  coal  from  scattering  and  lodging  on  the 
plate  of  the  stove,  under  the  side  covers.  If  this  is  done, 
the  coal  remaining  there  prevents  the  heat  from  having  a 
free  circnlation  ;  therefore  every  time  the  coal  is  added,  even 
if  both  covers  are  removed,  giving  a  free  opening  to  pour  on 
what  fuel  is  needed,  it  is  best  to  pass  the  poker  under  the  side- 
holes,  and  see  that  the  upper  plate  is  free  from  coal  and  ashes. 

"We  have  written  these  simple  directions  at  the  request  of 
a  "  very  young  housekeeper,"  who  assures  us  that  there  are 
hundreds  "  longing  for  just  such  instruction,  who,  fearing  to 
expose  their  ignorance,  are  keeping  silent,  subjecting  them- 
selves to  all  sorts  of  mistakes,  which  make  their  husbands 
cross,  and  set  themselves  almost  crazy," 

We  regret  that  any  should  feel  ashamed  to  ask  questions 
on  household  matters,  however  simple.  To  answer  them,  if 
in  our  power,  is  pleasure,  and  the  questions  are  a  great  en- 
couragement ;  for  we  often  think  we  have  exhausted  all  that 
need  be  said,  when  some  word  from  the  "young  house- 
keepers "  remind  us  of  points  which  we  have  overlooked. 


XLIX. 

THE   OLD  WAYS   AND   THE   NEW. 

IT  is  interesting  to  note  the  changes  and  improvements 
which  have  been  made  within  the  last  half-century  in 
almost  all  the  conveniences  and  implements  which  are  needed 
in  the  preparation  of  food.  It  may  be  that  the  ease  and 
comfort  by  which  this  labor  can  be  performed,  through  these 
new  contrivances,  when  compared  with  the  old  ways,  and 
the  facility  with  which  all  classes,  rich  or  poor,  can  and  do 


THE   OLD  WAYS  AND  THE  NEW.  203 

secure  all  or  some  of  these  conveniences,  has  tempted  to  an 
indulgence  in  luxuries  regardless  of  economy  or  health. 
Perhaps  the  firm  health  and  longevity  so  common  among  our 
forefathers  were  in  some  degree  owing  to  their  more  simple 
diet ;  but  also  very  largely,  we  think,  to  their  healthful  ac- 
tivity and  industry,  and  to  the  early  to  bed,  early  to  rise 
habits  which  their  active  life  demanded. 

But,  as  the  present  generation  have  acquired  extravagant 
tastes  with  regard  to  food,  as  well  as  in  dress,  there  certainly 
is  cause  for  gratitude  that  great  improvements  in  the  machin- 
ery by  which  such  work  can  be  performed  have  kept  pace  with 
the  cultivated  taste  that  demands  so  much  more  skdl  to  grat- 
ify it.  "We  doubt,  however,  if  any  modern  improvement  can 
ever  set  before  us  food  that  will  have  the  rare  excellence,  the 
exquisite  flavor,  of  that  which  used  to  come  from  our 
mother's  great  brick  oven.  Ah,  the  bread,  ŌĆö  the  rich- 
colored  brown  bread  ;  the  creamy-white  bread ;  the  pies, 
puddings,  and  cakes  ! 

"  'Twere  worth  ten  years  of  modern  life, 
One  glance  at  that  array  ! " 

We  have  yet  to  see  the  device  which  can  compensate  for 
the  loss  of  the  old  brick  oven  ! 

But  wishing  will  not  restore  it  to  us  who  live  in  cities  or 
large  towns,  unless  we  can  bring  back  the  old  primeval 
forests,  and,  instead  of  the  "  coal-bins,"  possess  again  the  old- 
fashioned  wood-houses  with  their  rich  stores  of  seasoned 
wood,  piled  high  to  the  rafters  ;  and  the  huge  piles  of  green 
wood  in  the  yard,  waiting  for  the  leisure  days  to  be  cut, 
split,  and  housed  ;  or  we  must  emigrate  to  the  unsettled 
parts  of  the  West  and  South,  which  are  still  rich  in  splendid 
woodland,  where  the  settlers  are  cutting  down  the  ga^and  old 
forests,  or  wastefully  burning  them.  In  their  present  haste 
to  clear  the  land,  they  forget  their  own  future  interest  and 


204      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS.     " 

tho  comfort  of  their  children,  who,  hy  this  waste  and  de- 
struction, will  be  denied  the  luxury  of  wood  lires,  and  com- 
pelled to  content  themselves  with  coal,  and  all  the  annoyances 
and  discomfort  connected  with  its  habitual  use.  Coal  is 
excellent  for  the  cook-stove  ;  but  it  is  a  great  sacrifice  when 
none  but  the  rich  can  afford  wood  fires,  in  their  family  room 
at  least. 

It  may  be  difficult  for  the  first  occupants  of  wild  lands  to 
save  the  great  wealth  of  fuel,  while  hastening  to  open  up 
their  farms.  But  it  seems  to  us  that  it  would  be  wise  to  pre- 
serve larger  tracts  of  woodland  on  any  new  farm  or  home- 
steads, as  a  provision  for  the  future  ;  remembering  that  any 
ten  acres  thoroughly  cultivated  will  bring  more  abundant 
and  better  paying  crops  than  thirty  cleared  but  poorly  culti- 
vated ;  poorly,  because  the  owner  uses  the  time  in  cutting 
down  the  wood  on  the  extra  twenty  acres  which  should 
have  been  given  to  the  careful  cultivation  of  the  ten.  When 
we  have  been  at  the  West  and  South,  at  various  times,  it  has 
been  a  source  of  continual  regret  to  see  that  which  our  large 
towns  and  cities  so  greatly  need  recklessly  given  to  the  flames, 
knowing  that  the  time  cannot  be  far  distant  when  these  young 
towns  will  feel  the  need  of  this  fuel  as  much  as  their  elders. 
We  cannot  help  thinking  while  we  ride  through  the  burning 
forests,  that  even  a  woman  could  manage  so  that  the  forests 
could  be  more  largely  preserved,  and  the  trees  which  must 
fall  be  saved  and  made  useful  and  profitable  ;  while  the  com- 
fort and  prosperity  of  the  possessor  could  be  much  increased 
by  the  economy,  because  the  farm  Avould  be  brought  under 
more  careful  culture,  and  thus  sooner  return  paying  crops. 

But  the  thought  of  the  well-beloved  brick  oven  has  led  us 
into  the  wilderness,  and  away  from  our  subject. 

We  were  noticing  the  great  difference  between  the  ancient 
and  modern  manner  of  cooking.  Many  of  our  readers  re- 
member and  have  often  used  the  brick  ovens,  the  large  old- 


THE   OLD   WAYS   AND  THE   NEW.  205 

fashioned  fireplace,  the  long  crane,  the  pot-hooks  and 
trammel  on  it,  and  the  great  pots  and  kettles  suspended  by 
them  over  the  fierce  fire,  ŌĆö  the  immense  "  roaster,"  the 
"  Dutch  oven,"  the  Johnny-cake  baked  on  the  "  Bannock- 
board  "  before  the  glowing  bed  of  coals,  wliile  bright  rows 
of  apples  were  sputtering  on  the  hearth.  But  all  these 
names  are  to  your  children  like  words  in  an  unknown  tongue. 
They  will  never  know  the  rich  flavors  gained  only  by  this 
mode  of  cooking  ;  neither  will  they  endure  the  pains  and 
penalties  by  which  this  knowledge  was  obtained.  What 
would  those  tyrants  of  our  households,  the  modern  cooks, 
say  if  compelled  to  swelter  over  the  blazing  fire,  or  roast 
with  the  meats  they  are  cooking  upon  the  fiery  coals  on  the 
hearth  ] 

Some  years  since  we  were  presented  w:ith  one  of  Stewart's 
stoves,  which  proved  so  satisfactory  that  we  never  expected, 
and  hardly  desired,  anything  better ;  and  when,  a  few  years 
later,  we  were  persuaded  to  put  the  "  Peerless  "  in  its  place, 
although  always  very  ready  to  try  anything  new  that  prom- 
ises to  lighten  or  simplify  the  kitchen  work,  we  confess  that 
it  was  with  much  reluctance  that  we  consented  to  make  the 
change,  being  in  no  wise  inclined  to  believe  that  it  could  at 
all  compete  with  our  old  and  well-tried  friend,  the  Stewart's. 
But  the  stove  proved  itself  worthy  of  its  name.  "  Peerless  " 
it  certainly  has  been,  and  in  all  respects  given  us  more  com- 
fort than  any  stove  or  range  we  have  ever  used,  baking 
equally  in  every  part  of  the  oven,  and  using  much  less  coal 
even  than  the  Stewart's'."  It  is  made  by  Pratt  and  Went- 
wo'rth,  of  Boston. 

We  well  remember  when  cook-stoves  and  ranges  were  first 
brought  into  common  use,  and  how  positive  the  good  house- 
keepers were  that  nothing  decent  could  be  prepared  with 
these  strange  contrivances.  But  only  a  few  days  were  needed 
to  work  a  complete  conversion.     Since  then,  almost  every 


206      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

year  brings  before  the  public  some  new  range  or  cook-stove, 
or  marked  improvements  on  the  old.  By  and  by  we  expect 
to  see  stoves  and  ranges  arranged  for  the  use  of  gas,  instead 
of  coal,  for  cooking  ;  and  if  a  better  quality  of  gas  than  that 
which  has  tormented  us  for  the  last  few  years  can  be  fur- 
nished, we  imagine  any  such  invention  will  bring  us  nearer 
to  the  perfection  of  cooking  arrangements  than  has  ever  been 
reached.  To  be  free  from  smoke,  and  the  dust  and  vexation 
of  coal  and  ashes,  will  indeed  be  a  consummation  most 
devoutly  to  be  wished. 

But  until  gas  can  be  thus  used  in  the  kitchen,  house- 
keepers have  reason  to  be  well  satisfied  with  the  many 
excellent  ranges  and  stoves  now  in  general  use. 


L. 

A  FEW  HINTS  ON   CARVING. 

IT  is  a  great  accomplishment  to  be  able  to  carve  well  and 
easily,  without  awkwardness  ;  but  it  is  one  that  re- 
ceives altogether  too  little  attention.  Too  often  it  would 
seem  that  the  host  or  hostess,  or  whoever  is  called  upon  to 
perform  this  table  duty,  has  no  idea  of  there  being  anything 
needed  but  to  hack  off  in  the  most  expeditious  manner  as 
much  meat  as  is  required  to  satisfy  the  wants  of  those 
present,  without  the  slightest  reference  to  the  mode  in  which 
it  should  be  done,  or  the  choice  bits  to  be  secured  by  careful 
carving.  We  have  seen  those  who  in  every  other  respect 
were  true  gentlemen  and  ladies,  carve  poultry  or  a  piece  of 
meat  in  such  a  barbarous  manner  as  to  banish  all  desire  to 
eat,  and  almost  the  ability  to  taste  the  big,  uncouth,  mangled 
lump  that  was  put,  or  rather  thrown,  on  the  plate.     To  cut 


A   FEW   HINTS   ON   CARVING.  207 

off  a  thick,  rough  piece  from  any  part  that  the  knife 
happens  to  light  upon  first,  aside  from  being  untidy  and  un- 
palatable, is  also  very  wasteful.  After  two  or  three  such 
careless  cuttings,  the  whole  piece  is  so  defaced  and  uneven, 
that  it  is  no  longer  possible  to  secure  a  decent  looking  bit  : 
and  the  bone  is  left  with  much  adhering  to  it,  in  ragged 
morsels,  which  dry  and  become  worthless  if  left  over  to  the 
next  day,  but  which,  had  the  joint  been  properly  carved, 
could  have  been  sent  to  the  table  for  a  cold  relish  for  tea,  in 
a  neat  and  attractive  form. 

Our  ladies  are  seldom  good  carvers,  and  do  not  often 
attempt  it.  Few  have  been  taught,  or  thought  it  worth 
while  to  try  and  learn  ;  but  in  early  times  it  was  considered 
an  indispensable  part  of  a  girl's  education.  The  want  of  such 
knowledge  often  leaves  one  in  an  unpleasant  and  embarrass- 
ing position  ;  for  to  every  one  there  occasionally  comes  a 
time  when  the  gentleman  of  the  family  must  be  abseiit,  and 
the  lady  must  do  the  carving,  or  ask  a  guest  or  stranger,  who 
may  be  even  more  awkward  than  herself. 

To  stand  up  while  carving  is  not  as  proper  or  skillful  a 
way  of  doing  the  work  as  to  be  seated  ;  but  it  is  sometimes 
easier  and  more  convenient,  and,  if  the  table  be  at  all 
crowded,  less  troublesome  to  guests.  In  such  cases  it  is 
quite  allowable. 

The  carving-knife  must  be  sharp  and  thin,  A  large,  broad- 
bladed  knife  is  needed  for  meats ;  a  long,  narrow,  and 
sharp-pointed  blade  for  poultry  and  game  ;  both  should  be 
kept  in  perfect  order,  and  always  ready  for  use. 

"When  dished,  poultry  or  game  must  be  laid  on  its  back, 
the  breast  uppennost,  for  the  greater  convenience  of  the 
carver,  who  should  put  the  fork  into  the  breast,  holding  the 
bird  firmly,  until  he  has  taken  off  the  wings  and  legs,  cut 
out  the  merry  thought,  or  wish-bone ;  cut  nice,  even  slices 
from    the    breast,    and    removed   the   collar-bone.     A   skill- 


208      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

ful  carver  will  do  all  this  without  once  turning  the  fowl  over. 
Next  cut  off  the  side-bone,  and  cut  down  the  back,  dividing 
the  carcass  in  two.  Separate  the  drumstick  from  the  second 
joint,  and  in  helping  a  lady,  if  she  prefer  the  wing,  cut  it 
in  two  parts  that  she  may  handle  it  more  conveniently. 

A  ham,  or  a  leg  of  lamb  or  mutton,  should  be  first  cut  in 
the  middle,  clean  down  to  the  bone,  jDassing  the  knife  all 
round.  Then  cut  thin,  even  shces  from  the  upper  or  thicker 
part,  separating  each  sHce  from  the  bone  at  the  bottom, 
carefully,  without  tearing  it.  Some  slices  can  also  be  cut 
from  the  lower  part  of  the  leg  or  ham,  which  are  just  as 
good  as  the  upper  part ;  but  after  a  little  you  come  to  the 
cords  or  fibers,  and  then  the  remainder  of  the  lower  part 
should  be  set  aside  to  cut  out  all  the  little  bits  for  a  relish 
at  tea,  or,  in  ham,  to  chop  up  as  seasoning  or  Avith  other 
kinds  of  meat  for  hash.  By  cutting  meat  in  this  way,  much 
may  be  saved.     Good  carving  is  good  economy. 

The  middle  portion  of  boiled  tongue  is  the  best,  and 
should  be  first  served  to  guests.  The  tip  is  fit  only  for 
hashes.     It  should  always  be  cut  crosswise,  never  lengthwise. 

"When  dishing  a  sirloin,  place  it  on  the  platter  with  the 
tenderloin  underneath,  and  carve  thin  slices  lengthwise  from 
the  side  next  to  you  ;  then  turn  the  piece  over,  and  carve  the 
tenderloin  carefully,  cutting  across  the  piece,  serving  equally 
from  both  parts. 

In  carving  a  fore-qiiarter  of  lamb,  divide  the  shoulders 
from  the  ribs ;  then  separate  the  ribs.  The  fore-quarter  of 
pork  and  mutton  should  be  carved  in  the  same  way.  When 
carving  the  hind-quarter,  cut  neatly  between  the  ribs  to  the 
joint,  which  must  then  be  carefully  separated,  so  as  not  to 
bring  a  jagged,  mangled  piece  to  the  plate.  To  do  this  you 
-mil  be  obliged  to  charge  your  butcher  particularly  to  crack 
the  joints,  not  only  of  the  liind,  but  also  of  the  fore-quarter. 
He  has  the  implements  to  do  it  more  expertly  than  you  can, 


PARENTAL  EXAMPLE.  209 

and  unless  this  is  well  done,  it  is  quite  impossible  to  carve 
the  ribs  neatly.  Serve  a  bit  of  the  kidney  and  the  fat  to  each 
guest  if  agreeable.  Some  do  not  relish  the  kidney,  and  could 
eat  with  more  relish  if  it  were  not  on  their  plate,  and  for 
this  reason  it  is  safest  to  ask  each  one  before  helping. 

In  carving  a  fillet  of  veal,  begin  at  the  top  to  cut,  serving 
a  portion  of  the  dressing  to  each  guest.  When  carving  the 
breast  of  veal,  cut  the  upper  portion  of  the  brisket,  or  that 
part  of  the  breast  that  lies  next  to  the  ribs,  separately,  and 
in  helping,  inquire  what  part  is  preferred. 

Some  like  to  send  a  young  pig  whole  to  the  table,  with  a 
lemon  or  bunch  of  parsley  put  into  the  mouth.  AVe  think 
it  much  nicer  to  take  off  the  head,  and  cut  the  pig  in  halves 
or  quarters,  before  sending  it  to  the  table,  and  then  carve  it. 
It  would  be  very  unpleasant  to  many  to  see  such  a  revolting 
caricature  of  a  live  pig  brought  before  them.  But  each  one 
must  judge  for  himself. 


LI. 

PARENTAL   EXAMPLE. 

PAEENTS  may  give  "line  upon  line  and  precept  up- 
on precept,"  in  their  assiduous  watchfulness  over  the 
manners  and  morals  of  their  children,  yet,  if  they  do  not 
constantly  bear  in  mind  that  example  has  more  influence 
over  the  young  than  precept,  their  efforts  will  be  of  little 
avail.  If  you  reprove  a  child  for  careless  usage  of  books, 
show  them  how  they  are  injured  and  defaced,  by  turning 
down  corners,  scribbling  on  the  margin,  or  throwing  them 
down  on  the  face,  how  much  good  will  such  lectures  do,  if, 
when  he  enters  your  library,  or  comes  where  you  have  been 


210      MOTHEELY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

reading,  the  child  sees  your  books  tossed  about,  the  bindings 
strained,  and  the  corners  in  a  most  undesirable  condition  1 

You  endeavor  to  inculcate  a  habit  of  neatness  in  your 
daughter ;  you  insist  that  when  she  returns  from  a  walk  or  ride 
she  shall  smooth  out  her  bonnet-strings,  brush  the  dust  from 
it,  and  put  it  at  once  in  the  bonnet-box ;  you  teU  her  to  fold 
her  shawl  neatly,  hang  up  her  sack,  pull  the  fingers  of  her 
gloves  straight,  fold  them  up  and  lay  them  in  their  appro- 
priate place ;  and  this  you  request  her  to  do,  not  once  or 
twice,  but  habitually,  not  only  because  it  is  tidy,  but  also  a 
great  saving  of  time  and  garments  in  the  course  of  a  year. 
But  if  you  come  in,  and  toss  your  street  garments  about  in 
the  most  careless  manner,  how  much  good,  think  you,  will 
all  your  words  of  instruction  have  accomplished  1  You  may 
enforce  obedience,  but  compulsory  habits  are  not  usually 
abiding ;  and,  when  old  enough  to  cast  off  restraint,  it  will 
be,  not  so  much  the  tvords  you  have  spoken,  as  the  things 
your  child  has  seen  you  do  habitually,  which  will  influence 
and  guide  her  womanhood. 

You  resolutely  object  to  your  children  using  low  phrases, 
ŌĆö  what  is  termed  dang ;  but  if  your  own  conversation  is 
largely  interspersed  with  foolish  or  needless  ejaculations, 
fight  against  it  as  you  may,  you  will  find  it  impossible  to 
prevent  them  from  copying  your  mode  of  speaking,  and  it 
will  be  very  strange  if  they  do  not  carry  it  to  a  much  greater 
extent  than  you  have  done. 

I^owhere  is  this  force  of  example  so  strikingly  exemplified 
as  at  the  table.  It  is  always  disagreeable  to  see  a  child 
sitting  with  its  arms  on  the  table,  or  resting  its  elbow  there 
while  carrying  the  food  to  its  mouth.  There  is  some  ex- 
cuse for  the  little  ones,  as  their  short  limbs  grow  weary,  and 
the  position,  though  a  very  awkward  one,  seems  to  them  a 
rest  from  the  restraint  of  the  table ;  and  no  doubt  it  is  so. 
It  is  exceedingly  annoying  to  see  children  filling  their  mouths 


PARENTAL  EXAMPLE.  211 

too  full,  and  then  washing  the  food  down  by  drinking,  be- 
fore the  food  is  half  masticated.  If  a  child  reaches  ov'er 
another's  plate  for  some  article  of  food,  instead  of  politely 
asking  for  it,  who  can  help  feeling  disturbed  by  the  rudeness  ? 
It  is  disagreeable  to  all  present  to  see  any  one  stand  upon  the 
round  of  the  chair,  or  on  the  floor,  and  spring  after  a  piece 
of  bread  or  meat,  or  push  a  dish  across  the  table  instead  of 
handing  it.  You  shrink  from  the  child  who  helps  itself 
to  butter  with  the  knife  from  its  own  plate.  All  this  is  an- 
noying in  children,  but  it  is  intolerable  when  practiced  by 
the  parents.  They  are  as  much  disgusted  as  any  "  lookers-on  " 
can  be,  when  they  notice  such  rude,  ill-mannered  actions  in 
their  children ;  but  while  they  severely  blame  these  young 
things,  they  forget  that  these  are  always  watching  and  imi- 
tating their  parents'  faults. 

We  have  seen  those  who  were  in  most  respects  truly 
refined,  whose  great  anxiety  seemed  to  be  to  guard  their 
children  from  any  contact  with  rude  associates,  and  to  teach 
them  as  much  refinement  of  manner  and  character  as  was 
possible ;  and  in  most  things  we  have  observed  that  such 
parents  most  scrupulously  and  conscientiously  conformed  to 
their  own  instructions ;  but  when  we  have  had  a  seat  at 
their  table,  we  have  sometimes  been  amazed  to  observe  that 
they  felt  themselves  exonerated  from  the  observance  of  the 
simplest  forms  of  table  etiquette,  yet  held  their  children 
in  strict  bondage  to  such  rules,  and  made  the  hours  spent 
at  what  should  be  the  social,  cheerful  board  very  uncomfort- 
able by  continued  reproofs. 

"  John,  take  your  arms  off  the  table."  The  child  raises 
his  eyes  to  his  father,  and  sees  one  arm  laid  on  the  table  be- 
fore him,  the  other  supporting  his  head,  with  the  elbow  on 
the  table,  while  administering  this  reproof. 

"  James,  how  often  must  I  tell  you  to  ask  for  what  you 
want,  and  not  reach  for  it  across  the  table  1 " 


212   MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

A  few  minutes  after,  James  sees  his  reprover  reaching  to  the 
full  stretch  of  his  arm,  supplemented  by  the  fork  from  his 
oivn  plate,  and  pick  up  a  potato,  piece  of  bread,  or  meat,  at 
the  farther  end  of  the  table. 

"  0  child,  will  you  never  learn  to  eat  without  smacking 
your  lips  and  making  such  a  disagreeable  noise  %  It  makes 
one  sick  to  hear  you  !  " 

The  child  has  been  watching  the  parent  while  eating,  and 
trying  hard  to  imitate  the  genuine  gourmand's  smack  which 
he  hears  from  the  head  of  the  table. 

"  I  am  astonished  !  Why  do  you  take  the  bread  from 
the  plate  with  your  fingers  and  toss  it  in  that  manner  to 
your  sister  1  Never  let  me  see  you  guilty  of  such  rudeness 
again  ! " 

JS'ow,  children  are  quick  to  see  mistakes  and  discrepancies 
in  the  conduct  of  their  elders,  or  those  who  have  the  rule 
over  them.  It  does  not  require  many  years  for  them  to  mark 
how  inconsistent  such  training  is.  Naturally  children  are 
not  very  fond  of  rules  and  regulations ;  they  like  freedom 
of  action  as  well  as  their  elders  ;  and  if  they  see  that  what 
is  called  rude  and  ill-mannered  in  a  child  is  the  daily  practice 
of  those  whom  they  are  expected  to  look  up  to,  is  it 
strange  that  they  take  every  possible  opportunity  to  trans- 
gress these  precepts,  so  strangely  nullified  by  parental  exam- 
ple 1  They  are  always  reaching  forward  to  something  beyond 
their  present  condition.  If  father  or  mother  does  such  and 
such  things,  which  are  denied  to  the  young  son  or  daughter, 
of  course  they  long  for  the  same  privilege ;  because  if  their 
parents  do  thus,  it  must  be  something  smart,  the  imitation 
of  which  brings  them  nearer  to  manhood  and  womanhood, 
and  farther  from  childhood,  from  which  latter  period  all  chil- 
dren are  eager  to  hasten  away.  Then,  if  this  is  so,  ŌĆö  and 
we  think  every  observing  parent  has  found  it  to  be  true,  ŌĆö 
is  it  not  important  that  the  rules  which  are  laid  down  to 


TRUE  TASTE   MORE  EFFECTIVE  THAN   MONEY.       213 

secure  good  morals  and  good  manners  in  the  children  sliould 
be  considered  of  sufficient  importance  to  regulate  the  prac- 
tice of  the  parents  ;  and  should  not  the  deviations  from 
them,  on  the  part  of  the  elders,  be  few,  ŌĆö  or,  better  yet, 
none  ] 


LII. 
TRUE  TASTE  MORE  EFFECTIVE  THAN  MONEY. 

MANY  imagine  they  must  relinquish  all  hopes  of  grati- 
fying their  tastes,  or  the  inherent  love  of  the  beauti- 
ful, if  tliey  do  not  rank  among  the  rich.  This  is  an  entirely 
false  idea.  There  are  houses  upon  which  thousands  of  dol- 
lars have  been  expended,  that  would  be  quite  intolerable  to 
people  of  real  refinement  as  a  permanent  residence.  The  whole 
arrangement  and  furniture  are  so  stiff  and  formal,  so  heavy 
and  oppressive  with  superfluous  ornament,  that  simple  curi- 
osity to  see  what  strange  vagaries  can  enter  into  the  heads 
of  the  rich,  and  in  what  absurd  manner  they  study  to  spend 
their  abundant  wealth,  would  seem  to  be  the  only  motive 
which  could  tempt  a  sensible  person  to  enter. 

On  the  other  hand  we  find  small,  modest  cottages,  Avhich 
bear  iinmistakable  evidence  of  the  necessity  of  close  economy, 
which  have  far  more  of  real  comfort  and  convenience  about 
them  than  those  splendid  mansions,  and  at  the  same  time 
they  are  gems,  bearing  in  every  part  the  stamp  of  true 
elegance  and  refinement.  They  are  so  beautified  by  the 
genuine  taste  and  ingenuity  of  the  occupants,  that  it  is  real 
pleasure  to  pass  from  one  room  to  another,  or  sit  quietly  and 
enjoy  the  sweet  enchantment ;  yet  money  had  little  to  do 
toward  securing  such  attractions.     It  is  the  fitness  of  things. 


214      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS, 

the  harmonious  blending  of  shape  and  color,  the  adapta- 
tion of  the  furniture  to  the  wants  of  each  apartment,  that 
make  the  Avhole  combination  so  peculiarly  delightful.  And 
yet,  how  and  from  what  was  all  this  tasteful  furnishing  con- 
structed ?  If  some  of  those  persons,  whose  dark  and  gloomy 
parlors  are  hung  with  the  costliest  damask,  and  their  furniture 
carved  and  upholstered  by  the  most  skillful  and  fashionable 
workmen,  should,  by  chance,  find  themselves  in  one  of  these 
pleasant  homes,  they  could  not  help  being  captivated  by 
the  spirit  of  the  place,  in  spite  of  the  absence  of  style  or 
fashion.  The  elegant,  airy,  graceful  parlors,  the  rest,  the 
peace  and  comfort  which  pervade  the  whole  atmosphere, 
would  be  to  them  a  new  experience ;  and  what  would  be 
their  astonishment  to  learn  with  how  little  expense  all 
this,  Avhich  they  acknowledge  to  be  so  refresliing,  has  been 
secured  ! 

No  matter  if  the  purse  is  not  very  heavy,  young  people, 
with  good  health  and  a  fair  share  of  taste  and  ingenuity, 
have  great  pleasure  in  store  for  themselves,  when  they  under- 
take together  to  furnish  and  beautify  a  house,  which  is  to 
be  their  home.  There  are  so  many  small  conveniences,  so 
many  little  contrivances,  that  a  carpenter  never  thinks  of, 
because  he  has  never  had  woman's  work  to  do,  and  there- 
fore cannot  see  how  important  these  little  things  are.  A 
woman  should  know  just  where  an  hour's  work,  well  consid- 
ered and  planned,  can  be  employed  to  manufacture  some 
convenient  thing,  that  will  save  much  time  and  strength, 
and  which,  however  cheaply  and  roughly  made,  she  can, 
in  a  few  spare  moments,  transform  into  an  object  of  real 
beauty. 

"  Harper's  Bazar,"  always  full  of  suggestions,  often  de- 
scribes the  way  of  making  useful  articles  beautiful  ones. 
The  pictures  and  explanations  are  very  easily  understood, 
and  each  one  who  attempts  to  profit  by  these  suggestions 


TRUE  TASTE   MORE  EFFECTIVE  THAN   MONEY.       21,j 

can  elaborate  or  modify  as  her  skill,  time,  or  means  may  allow. 
There  is  no  end  to  the  variety  and  improvement  that  will 
grow  out  of  each  successive  trial ;  and  certainly  no  end  to 
the  pleasure  that  one  can  enjoy  in  seeing  such  trophies 
of  taste  spring  up  within  and  around  a  new  home.  A 
few  yards  of  bright  blue,  pink,  or  green  paper  muslin,  with 
an  overskirt  of  cheap  Nottingham  lace,  dotted  muslin,  or  an 
old  lawn  dress,  can  soon  transform  a  rough  half-circle  or 
square  piece  of  board  into  a  pretty  wash-stand  or  dressing- 
table.  Old  broom-handles  make  good  legs  for  the  stands  ; 
and  a  part  of  the  length  of  the  handle,  not  needed,  or  some 
smaller  stick,  answers  nicely  for  the  rounds  or  braces.  The 
husband  can  easily  bore  the  holes  in  the  top,  into  which  the 
legs  may  be  fastened,  and  also  for  the  braces  necessary  to 
keep  the  table  firm  ;  an  old  piece  of  cloth  does  nicely  for  the 
under-cover  ;  an  old  hoop-skirt  nailed  around  the  edge  of  the 
top,  before  the  wadding  and  upper  cover  are  put  on,  is  excel- 
lent to  make  the  outside  skirt  hang  in  a  proper  manner,  or 
the  grandmother's  old-fashioned  wire  fire-fender,  which  for 
years  has  lain  rusting  in  your  mother's  garret,  is  admirable 
for  that  purpose.  Then,  with  the  bright,  delicately  colored 
paper  muslin,  and  the  white  lace  or  lawn  overskirt,  or  cover, 
you  have,  with  trifling  expense,  as  pretty  a  toilet-table  or 
washstand  as  any  one  need  desire.  Underneath  the  hoops 
or  fender  you  may  have  a  convenient  repository  for  work- 
basket  or  boxes,  if  your  house  is  not  well  supplied  with 
closets. 

"  Sleepy  Hollows,"  sewing-chairs  or  easy-chairs  made 
from  old  hogsheads  or  barrels,  and  pretty  lounges  from  long 
packing-boxes,  are,  we  think,  among  the  articles  the  "  Bazar  " 
has  sometimes  mentioned,  ŌĆö  giving  pictures  and  explana- 
tions of  the  manner  in  Avhich  the  roughest  and  hardest  work 
may  be  executed.  From  these  directions,  any  one  with  tol- 
erable skill   can  gather  the    iirst  ideas,  and    then    proceed 


216      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

to  make  the  articles,  modifying  the  shajje  to  suit  their  own 
fancy. 

Pretty  ottomans  or  stools  covered  to  match  the  furniture 
of  the  room  are  a  great  convenience,  and  help  to  give  a 
genteel,  stylish  air.  If  skillfully  made  and  dressed,  who 
could  imagine  that  they  are  formed  from  well-cleaned  and 
scoured  soap-boxes  or  butter-tubs,  with  castors  screwed 
to  the  bottom,  and  a  cover  with  hinges  on  the  top,  thus 
serving  a  double  purpose,  ŌĆö  making  a  pleasant  seat,  easily 
rolled  to  any  part  of  the  room,  and  a  convenient  box  or 
trunk  for  holding  work-bundles,  papers,  or  your  boots  and 
slippers. 

We  never  regret  the  loss  of  youth  and  strength  so  much, 
or  are  so  near  being  envious,  as  when  we  see  young  people 
studying  how  ingeniously  they  can  arrange  a  small  cottage, 
and  give  it  the  air  of  beauty  and  elegance  their  natures  so 
much  crave.  They  will  not  find  half  the  pleasure  in  enjoy- 
ing it,  all  perfected,  as  they  would  have  had  in  planning  and 
executing ;  and  yet  how  many  throw  aside  such  enjoyment, 
and  turn  this  pleasant  labor  into  drudgery,  not  willingly  cul- 
tivating all  the  talents  God  has  bestowed  upon  them,  but 
repining  because  they  cannot  afford  to  employ  an  uphol- 
sterer to  furnish  what  their  own  skill  might  have  executed 
perhaps  far  more  satisfactorily. 

We  will  follow  these  suggestions  no  further,  but  hope 
some  of  our  young  housekeepers  may  be  led  to  improve  the 
hints,  in  a  manner  that  shall  make  them  converts  to  the 
ideas  advanced. 


COOKING   BY   STEAM,  L'17 

LIU. 

COOKING   BY   STEAM. 

MUCH  has  been  said  of  the  superiority  of  steamed  food 
over  that  which  is  boiled  or  baked ;  and  year  after 
year  the  papers  or  magazines  devoted  to  domestic  economy 
and  the  improvement  and  simplihcation  of  household  labor 
have  advocated  this  mode  of  cooking  meats,  vegetables,  and 
many  other  articles  of  food,  every  few  months  recommending 
some  new  invention.  We  have  tried  one  experiment  after 
another,  finding,  to  be  sure,  some  imperfection  in  all ;  but 
enough  that  was  practicable  to  convince  us  there  was  much 
which  was  desirable  in  the  idea ;  and,  if  able  to  do  the  work 
with  our  own  hands,  confident  we  could  reap  great  advan- 
tage from  it. 

When  the  mistress  of  a  family  has  not  strength  to  do  her 
cooking  herself,  or  that  part  of  it  which  requires  more  than 
ordinary  judgment  and  skill,  she  is  not  situated  so  that 
new  modes  of  work  can  be  tried  with  much  prospect  of  suc- 
cess. Most  servants,  particularly  the  cooks,  when  accus- 
tomed to  one  mode  of  work,  are  very  reluctant  to  change ; 
and,  therefore,  if  the  mistress  is  not  able  to  make  all  ex- 
periments herself,  she  will  soon  find,  unless  fully  prepared 
to  have  the  autocrat  of  the  kitchen  abdicate  without  "giving 
notice,"  that  it  is  safest,  and  wisest  often,  to  allow  a  tolerably 
Ō¢Āgood  girl  to  move  on  in  the  "  even  tenor  of  her  ways,"  Avith- 
out  attempting  any  changes,  except  those  Avhich  she  can 
bring  about  quietly  and  imperceptibly.  This  is  no  very 
easy  lesson  for  an  old  liousekeeper  to  learn ;  but  repeated 
defeats  must  teach  her  that  patience,  as  Avell  as  discretion, 
is  a  "  better  part  of  valor." 
10 


218      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUxMG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

In  the  last  century,  an  American,  Benjamin  Thompson, 
made  Count  Eumford  by  the  Elector  of  Bavaria  for  distin- 
guished military  and  scientific  services,  gave  much  time  and 
thought  to  the  study  of  heat  and  experiments  in  cooking, 
being  the  inventor  of  the  present  style  of  coal  fireplaces 
and  grates,  cooking  ranges,  etc.  He  was  the  first  person  on 
record,  with  any  pretensions  to  learning  and  philosophy,  who 
ever  studied  the  dressing  of  meat  for  food  as  a  science.  The 
result  was  the  invention  of  a  boiler  for  cooking  by  steam. 
Within  a  short  time  another  boiler  has  been  perfected 
involving  the  same  principles,  l^ut  containing  various  im- 
provements over  the  steamer  of  the  last  century,  which  has 
been  named  "Eumford's  Boiler"  in  compliment  to  the 
original  inventor.     We  have  been  trying  it. 

Our  cook  was  positive  she  could  never  use  that  thing. 
It  was  troublesome,  took  up  too  much  room  on  the  stove,  etc. 
Bless  the  girl !  That  is  one  of  the  excellences  of  that 
thing.  Little  else  in  the  way  of  utensils  is  needed  on  the 
top  of  the  stove,  beside  one  of  these  boilers.  We  stipulated 
that  she  should  use  it  two  weeks,  and  if  found  troublesome, 
it  should  share  the  fate  of  many  other  inventions,  and  no 
more  be  said  about  it.  But  long  before  the  two  weeks 
expired  it  had  won  Mary's  heart  entirely,  and  now  she  would 
sooner  part  with  anything  else  from  her  kitchen  than  the 
"  Eumford  Boiler." 

One  peculiarity  of  this  most  excellent  boiler  is,  that  unlike 
all  others  we  have  ever  seen,  neither  steam  nor  tcater  comes 
in  actual  contact  with  the  article  to  be  cooked.  Tavo  inches 
of  Avater  is  put  into  the  bottom  of  the  boiler.  Then  a  large 
receiver,  into  which  meat,  fowl,  or  fish  is  put  to  be  cooked, 
is  fitted  on  tight  over  the  boiling  water,  and  shut  ofi"  from 
aU  possibility  of  being  touched  by  steam  or  water  by  a  close- 
fitting  cover.  Above  this  two  other  pans,  or  boilers,  for 
vegetables,  custards,  etc.,  can  be  fitted  with  tight  cover  also  ; 


COOKING  BY  STEAM.  219 

and  the  whole  boiler,  which  is  about  as  large  but  higher 
than  an  ordinary  wash-boiler,  is  also  closely  covered.  Very 
little  fuel  will  keep  the  water  boiling  hot  Avhen  once  it  has 
reached  that  point,  as  no  licat  can  escape  by  evaporation.  It 
is  not  generally  understood,  or  at  least  it  is  not  borne  in 
mind  with  sufficient  care,  that  "  after  water  is  just  boiling, 
all  the  fuel  which  is  needed  to  make  it  bod  violently  is  just 
so  much  Avasted,  Avithout  in  the  smallest  degree  expediting 
or  shortening  the  process  of  cooking.  It  is  by  the  heat,  its  in- 
tensity and  the  time  of  its  duration,  not  by  the  boiling  or 
bubbling  up  of  the  water,  that  the  food  is  cooked." 

In  this  "  Eumford  Boiler "  the  water  can  be  kept  at  the 
boiling  point  Avith  no  more  fuel  than  need  be  used  to  keep 
tAvo  quarts  of  water  at  that  temperature.  It  is  the  most 
economical  and  comfortable  arrangement  for  summer  use, 
and  at  the  same  time  equally  desirable  for  the  winter.  Meat 
cooked  in  it  not  only  retains  all  its  juice,  but  also  nearly  all 
its  original  weight,  losing  about  one  ounce  to  a  pound  ;  by 
the  regular  process  of  baking,  meats  lose  over  four  ounces 
to  a  pound. 

The  uniform  heat  of  the  boiling  Avater  cooks  whatever  is  put 
into  the  boiler  equally  all  the  way  through  ;  no  meat,  vege- 
table, or  any  other  article  can  be  scorched.  It  would  seem 
impossible  for  the  poorest  cook  to  spoil  a  dinner,  so  long  as 
she  does  not  let  the  fire  go  out  or  remove  the  boiler  from  the 
stove.  Meats  require  no  basting,  and  in  that  respect  much 
time  and  labor  can  be  saved  ;  and  the  fire  once  fairly  burn- 
ing can  be  kept  Ioav  as  soon  as  the  water  has  reached  the 
boiling  point,  and  no  more  care  of  a  coal  fire  is  needed  till 
the  dinner  is  ready. 

Meat,  fish,  and  vegetables  may  all  be  cooked  at  the  same 
time  in  this  boiler ;  for  being  placed  in  separate  receivers 
with  closely  fitting  covers,  no  taste  can  possibly  pass  from 
one  kind  of  food  to  another.     Meat  thus  steamed  or  cooked 


220      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

is  much  more  juicy,  tender,  and  easy  of  digestion  than  when 
prepared  in  any  other  way  we  know  of.  No  danger  of  burn- 
ing, scorching,  or  overcooking.  If  left  in  much  longer  than 
is  needed,  it  is  not  injured  by  it ;  for,  as  no  water  or  steam 
can  reach  it,  it  is  only  kept  hot  in  its  own  juices,  without 
the  sodden,  disagreeable  look  and  taste  of  meat  that  has  re- 
mained too  long  in  boiling  water  or  a  perforated  steamer ; 
and,  what  is  even  as  great  a  recommendation  as  the  excellent 
flavor  of  the  food,  the  house  is  not  filled  with  smoke  and 
smell  of  cooking. 

Besides,  if  properly  cooked,  there  is  no  waste,  ŌĆö  all  is 
eatable  and  palatable  ;  even  the  tip  of  the  wings  from  birds 
and  poultry,  which  in  baking  are  dried  up  and  perfectly 
worthless,  are  delicious,  for  there  is  no  sweeter  meat  than 
wings,  when  not  dried  past  use.  In  steaming  all  is  tender 
and  juicy.  "When  we  steam  beef,  mutton,  game,  or  poultry, 
we  take  them  from  the  steamer,  dredge  over  a  little  flour, 
and  put  into  the  oven  about  fifteen  minutes,  ŌĆö Ō¢Ā  not  long 
enough  to  dry,  but  simply  brown  delicately,  ŌĆö  and  think  it 
an  improvement. 

We  have  also  found,  by  experiments,  that  we  can  do  many 
more  things  with  this  boiler  than  we  were  promised,  and 
with  the  most  gratifying  results.  We  put  bread,  cake,  and 
pies  into  it,  cover  close,  and  leave  them  till  done ;  then  set 
them  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  secure  the  rich,  golden 
brown ;  and  now  there  are  no  more  burnt  upper  or  imder 
crusts,  and  no  more  uncooked  bottom  crust  to  our  pastry. 


VEGETABLES.  221 

LIV. 

VEGETABLES. 

JUNE  is  the  season  when  vegetables  are  most  abundant 
and  can  be  had  in  the  greatest  variety.  Among  the 
numberless  articles  of  food  there  is  nothing  so  conducive  to 
health  as  good,  fresh,  and  properly  prepared  vegetables,  and 
nothing  which  so  easily  deranges  the  whole  system  if  used 
stale,  unripe,  or  badly  cooked.  Vegetables  having  so  large  a 
share  in  our  comfort,  it  is  essential  that  housekeepers  should 
understand  how  to  prepare  every  variety  not  only  in  the  most 
attractive  manner,  but  also  in  the  most  healthful  way  that 
can  be  devised. 

In  the  city  it  is  not  easy,  hardly  possible,  to  procure  fresh 
vegetables.  Those  only  who  have  a  private  team,  and  can 
send  to  the  adjacent  market-gardens,  can  hope  to  have  them  ; 
hence  our  city  housekeepers,  who  have  never  had  the  good 
fortune  to  live  in  the  country  during  the  harvest  season  of 
vegetables,  can  hardly  realize  the  difference  between  peas, 
beans,  corn,  etc.,  which  can  be  gathered  early,  and  eaten 
almost  with  the  dew  upon  them,  and  such  as  are  heaped  into 
market-wagons  and  brought  from  a  distance,  and  exposed 
for  hours  or  days,  if  the  sales  are  not  rapid  in  our  markets, 
to  the  air  and  sun ;  made  to  retain  the  semblance  of  fresh 
vegetables  by  frequent  showers  from  the  hose  or  watering-pot. 
Nothing  so  readily  destroys  all  the  sweetness  and  the  richest 
flavors  of  such  articles  as  these  shower-baths  ;  and  although 
the  purchaser  may  fully  understand  the  whole  art  of  cooking, 
no  skill  can  bring  to  our  city  tables  such  flavors  and  richness 
as  the  farmers  or  the  country  gentleman  should  enjoy  daily. 
It  is  through  carelessness  or  ignorance  if  they  do  not  feast 


222      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

luxuriously  all  summer.  Of  course,  almost  all  kinds  of 
vegetables  can  be  cooked  in  a  great  variety  of  ways  ;  and  as 
tastes  differ  widely,  and  what  would  please  one  may  be  dis- 
tasteful to  another,  by  this  variety  every  one  may  be  suited  ; 
yet  there  are  some  general  rules  that  must  always  remain 
fixed  and  immovable  ;  and  if  not  followed,  no  mode  of  cook- 
ing these  viands  will  be  fully  satisfactory.  Some  few  items 
from  the  history  of  some  of  our  most  common  roots  and 
vegetables  may  not  be  uninteresting,  before  giving  a  review 
of  the  mode  of  preparing  and  cooking  them. 

The  Potato,  now  one  of  the  most  useful  and  nutritious 
of  the  esculent  roots,  is  a  native  of  South  America,  and  first 
found  wild  in  Chili  and  Peru,  although  it  is  often  called  Irish 
potato,  and  supposed  by  many  to  have  been  first  found  in 
Ireland.  It  was  brought  to  England  in  1586,  and  for  a  long 
time  was  eaten  as  a  fruit,  or  made  into  pies  or  puddings,  and 
eaten  with  sauces  and  wines.  It  was  so  used  through  the 
time  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  It  was  planted  in  Ireland  by 
Sir  Walter  Ealeigh,  on  one  of  his  estates  in  that  country. 
After  being  planted  and  partly  grown,  the  little  green  balls, 
which  foUoAV  the  blossoms,  were  supposed  to  be  the  fruit. 
Sir  "Walter  had  them  cooked,  but  finding  them  not  at  all 
palatable  he  concluded  the  crop  was  a  failure,  and,  as  might 
be  supposed,  was  not  very  strongly  tempted  by  his  first  ex- 
periment to  try  it  again.  But  upon  turning  up  the  ground, 
to  use  for  other  purposes,  to  his  great  satisfaction  he  found 
the  food  he  had  looked  for  on  the  stalk  hid  in  the  earth,  and 
of  a  most  desirable  character. 

After  many  experiments  it  was  proved  that  thrice  as  large 
a  crop  of  potatoes  as  of  any  other  root  could  be  produced 
from  an  acre,  and  they  soon  became  the  chief  food  of  the 
Irish  peasantry,  and  remain  so  to  this  day. 

There  is  no  end  to  the  varieties  of  the  potato  that  are 
being   brought   before   the  public.     New  seedlings  are  an- 


VEGETABLES.  223 

nounced  every  year ;  almost  every  section  has  its  own 
special  seedling  or  favorite,  which  seems  excellent  there,  but 
deteriorates  when  planted  in  other  parts  ;  and  many  kinds 
which  were  the  best  known  years  ago  are  now  lost  sight  of 
entirely.  We  have  not  since  childhood  been  able  to  find 
the  "rusty  coats"  or  "lady's  fingers,"  but  have  never  seen 
a  potato  that  eipialled  them ;  partly,  no  doubt,  because 
cue  never  carries  the  tastes  of  childhood  into  mature  age  to 
perfection,  but  this  is  not  altogether  the  reason  ;  they  were, 
undoubtedly,  very  excellent  potatoes.  The  "  early  rose " 
is  nearer  to  our  idea  of  the  "  rusty  coats  "  in  flavor,  but  is 
not  like  it  in  appearance,  nor  of  so  perfect  a  quality. 

The  potato  can  be  satisfactorily  used  in  more  ways  than 
any  other  edible  root,  ŌĆö  in  bread,  pastry,  starch,  puddings, 
pies,  and  salad  ;  boiled,  baked,  roasted,  stewed,  fried.  It  is 
said  "  they  fiuiiish  flour  without  a  mill,  and  bread  without 
an  oven." 

After  potatoes  are  taken  from  the  ground,  and  have  been 
exposed  to  the  sun  and  air  long  enough  to  dry,  the  sooner 
they  are  placed  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar  the  better  they  will 
keep.  Mrs.  Haskill,  in  her  "  Housekeeper's  Encyclop?edia," 
advises  that  all  that  are  needed  for  winter  use  should  be  packed 
in  barrels,  and  a  little  ^jZas^e?"  scattered  over  each  layer, 
to  absorb  the  moisture ;  such  as  are  to  be  kept  for  spring 
use  she  thinks  should  be  buried  in  the  ground,  and  a  little 
plaster  be  sprinkled  over  them  ;  also,  Mrs.  Haskill  claims 
that  this  is  a  preventive  against  rot,  but  does  not  consider 
it  sure.  Whether  this  is  good  doctrine,  we  leave  for  our 
scientific  farmers. 

The  Srveet  Potato  is  a  tuberous  root,  very  different  from 
our  common  potato.  It  is  common  in  tropical  climates, 
where  it  is  much  more  perfect  than  in  our  colder  States. 
There  are  seldom  but  two  kinds  brought  to  our  markets,  the 
red  or  purple  rooted,  and  the  white   or  yellow  rooted.     Far 


224      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG    HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Soutli,  the  red  grows  to  a  lai'ge  size,  and  is  sweeter  and  more 
nutritious  than  those  raised  at  the  JS'orth.  The  white  or 
yellow  rooted  grows  more  perfectly  Avith  us  than  the  red. 
In  jSTew  Jersey  they  are  largely  raised,  and  of  a  good  quality. 
Thirty  years  ago,  sweet  potatoes  were  a  luxury  on  any 
Northern  table  :  now  they  are  in  daily  use  when  in  season  ; 
but  to  find  them  in  the  greatest  perfection  we  must  still  go 
South  for  them.  The  young  leaves  and  tender  shoots  are 
sometimes  boiled  as  greens,  and  are  pronounced  quite  whole- 
some. 

In  California,  sweet  potatoes  grow  to  an  immense  size, 
often  weighing  lour  or  liA-e  pounds,  and  sometimes  eight  or 
ten. 

The  Jerusalem  Artichoke  grows  in  clusters  of  tubers,  some- 
thing like  the  potato.  It  is  a  native  of  Brazil.  It  was 
brought  to  England  and  was  much  in  use  there  before  it 
was  superseded  by  the  common  potato.  It  was  called  the 
Canada  potato,  to  distinguish  it  from  the  common  kind,  then 
known  as  the  Virginia  potato.  It  is  wholesome  and  nutri- 
tious, but  not  dry  and  mealy.  The  plants  are  extremely 
productive  and  once  started  it  is  difficult  to  eradicate  them 
from  the  soil;  they  are  said  to  be  an  excellent  food  for 
horses  and  hogs.  Girasole,  not  Jerusalem,  should  be  the 
term.  ŌĆó  That  is  the  Italian  name  for  sunfioiver,  which  this 
artichoke  resembles  in  many  particulars,  and  to  which  it  is 
in  some  degree  akin,  but  not  at  all  to  the  artichoke  proper, 
which  is  a  plant  brought  from  the  Mediterranean.  The 
flower-head  before  blossoming  is  the  part  eaten,  boiled  plain 
and  eaten  with  melted  butter  and  pepper,  like  spinach  and 
other  greens.  The  bottoms  are  also  sometimes  boiled  in 
milk  and  eaten,  and  sometimes  pickled.  The  French  fry 
them  and  use  them  in  various  ways,  sometimes  raw  as 
salads. 

The  Yavi  also  resembles  the  common  potato.     It  is  exten- 


CABBAGE.  225 

sively  grown  in  the  East  and  West  Indies,  and  in  Africa 
and  America.  It  is  sweeter  and  firmer  than  the  potato, 
grows  flat,  about  a  foot  long,  and  sometimes  divided  like 
fingers.  One  variety,  called  the  hinged  yam,  often  grows 
three  feet  long  and  weighs  twenty  or  thirty  pounds.  When 
raw,  like  the  potato,  the  juice  is  acrid  and  not  healthful,  but 
boiling  destroys  all  harmful  properties.  A  favorite  dish  is 
prepared  from  it  in  the  tropics,  combined  with  grated  cocoa- 
nut  and  the  pulp  of  the  banana. 


LV. 

CABBAGE. 


IE"  this  chapter  we  have  something  to  say  of  an  old 
familiar  friend,  the  Cabbage,  which  for  ages  has  been 
one  of  the  most  useful  of  all  our  vegetables,  being  very  pro- 
ductive, and,  for  many  persons,  nutritious  and  healthful.  It 
is  found  growing  wild  on  the  cliffs  in  many  parts  of  the 
southern  coasts  of  England  ;  but  these  do  not  very  closely 
resemble  the  large,  vigorous  vegetable  we  see  on  our  farms 
and  in  our  gardens.  There  it  is  dwarfed,  not  weighing  more 
than  an  ounce,  Avith  a  few  feeble  leaves.  Even  in  this  state 
it  is  sometimes  gathered  and  eaten  for  greens,  but  is  not 
very  tempting.  Although  thus  found  wild  on  the  southern 
British  coast,  the  numerous  kinds  now  under  careful  cultiva- 
tion, in  almost  all  our  large  farms  or  market-gardens,  are  the 
results  of  many  experiments  made  by  scientific  and  enter- 
prismg  agriculturists.  It  was  also  largely  cultivated  and  im- 
proved in  other  countries  long  before  its  use  was  under- 
stood in  England.  It  was  a  common  product  among  the 
Eomans,  and  although  they  were  lawless  and  ambitious  in 
their  inroads  upon  the  surrounding  nations,  their  conquests, 
10*  o 


226      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

with,  all  tlio  attending  evils,  were  conducive  of  many  good 
results  ;  for  Avherever  their  armies  went,  they  left  behind 
new  arts  and  habits,  tending  toward  a  larger  civilization  than 
is  commonly  the  result  of  wars.  Many  fruits,  roots,  and 
vegetables,  unknown  in  Spain,  Germany,  and  England,  were 
brought  by  the  conquering  Romans  into  general  use  among 
these  nations. 

The  Saxons  used  cabbage  under  the  name  of  kale,  and  it 
is  still  so  called  in  Scotland.  For  a  long  time  it  was  the 
only  vegetable  known  in  that  country,  but  there  is  no  end  to 
the  kinds  now  in  use,  and  the  varieties  are  multiplied  yearly 
by  the  experiments  and  skill  of  the  producers.  With  some 
persons  it  is  not  easy  of  digestion  when  cooked,  but  when 
cut  up  raw  and  used  as  a  salad  there  is  hardly  anything 
more  wholesome  or  palatable  than  the  cabbage.  Some 
chemists  assert  that  it  contains  an  oil  which  is  injurious, 
unless,  when  cooking,  the  cabbage  is  boiled  in  two  waters. 
However  that  may  be,  we  know  that  this  vegetable  is  far 
more  delicate  and  tempting,  if,  after  boiling  about  half  an 
hour,  the  water  is  poured  off,  and  clear  boiling  water  added, 
in  which  the  cabbage  is  cooked  till  done.  With  that  pre- 
caution, aside  from  being  nicer,  it  is  not  half  as  liable  to  pro- 
duce disagreeable  effects. 

The  Borecole,  or  hale  proper,  as  now  understood,  differs 
from  the  common  cabbage  in  having  long,  curly,  wrinkled 
leaves,  more  like  the  original  "vnld  plant,  only  larger  and  of 
thicker  growth,  never  forming  into  a  close,  solid  head.  They 
are  very  hardy,  and  furnish  most  excellent  winter  greens  ; 
and  if  the  leaves  and  stalks  are  blanched,  are  greatly  im- 
proved and  very  delicate.  These  kales  are  improved  by 
frost.  The  Scotch  or  German  hale,  or  c^ialis  (curly  greens), 
is  used  in  immense  quantities  in  Britain.  The  buda  and  the 
Russian  kale  are  much  less  common.  The  buda  is  con- 
sidered a  great  delicacy  when  blanched  ;  the  sprouts,  and  not 


CABBAGE.  227 

the  heart,  being  the  most  desirable.  "VVe  have  never  seen  it 
in  our  markets,  but  should  think  it  might  be  brought  to 
great  perfection  in  our  country,  and  be  a  very  desirable  ad- 
dition to  our  numerous  sorts  of  cabbage.  The  Coleya  oil, 
so  miich  in  use  in  France  for  lamps,  is  made  from  the  seeds 
of  one  kind  of  kale,  and  we  think  we  have  been  told  it  is 
from  the  buda. 

The  Portuguese  cabbage,  from  Tranzuda,  is  extensively 
cultivated  abroad,  and  we  see  not  why  that  also  cannot  be 
introduced  here.  It  is  said  to  be  peculiarly  tender  and  deli- 
cate, and  destitute  of  the  coarse  rank  taste  of  our  common 
kinds.  The  heart  is  the  preferable  part ;  the  mid-rib  or  stalk 
being  used  after  the  green  parts  are  cut  off  only  as  greens. 
We  wonder  that  some  enterprising  Yankee  has  not  brought 
it  into  our  markets. 

The  Palm  hale  and  the  Cow-cabbage  are  cultivated  in  Jer- 
sey, and  other  of  the  Anglo-lN'orman  isles,  as  food  for  cattle. 
The  leaves  of  both  grow  to  a  great  height,  from  twelve  to 
fifteen  feet.  It  is  the  outer  leaf  that  is  fed  to  the  cattle  ; 
the  heart  of  the  bud  is  quite  tender,  and  when  cooked  is 
good  and  nutritious. 

The  close-headed  cabbage  has  many  varieties,  ŌĆö  the  tvhite 
and  the  red  drinn-head,  sngar-loaf,  Savoy,  etc.  These  are 
raised  from  the  seed,  and  should  be  sowed  the  year  before 
they  are  wanted,  for  large  heads.  "While  young,  or  the  first 
year,  if  cooked  at  all  it  is  as  greens,  or  cabbage  coletvorts. 
Such  as  are  not  kept  for  growth  the  second  year  are  pidled 
up,  root  and  all,  and  thus  sent  to  market  to  keep  them  from 
withering.  The  roots  are  cut  off  by  the  cook  just  before 
using.  Some,  when  the  head  is  half  formed,  are  gathered 
for  summer  cabbage  ;  but  if  left  till  fall  the  head  becomes 
hard  and  firm,  and  late  in  the  season  they  are  pulled  up  and 
stored,  or  buried  in  the  ground.  Such  as  are  needed  for 
summer  sprouts  or  coleworts  are  left  in  the  ground  all  winter, 


228      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

and  are  ready  early,  with  the  nice  new  shoots  for  the  spring 
market. 

The  red  cabbage  makes  a  line  pickle,  and  is  the  kind  most 
used  by  the  Germans  for  sauerlcraut,  though  almost  any  variety 
Avill  answer.    The  dwarf  red  is  much  used  abroad  for  stewing. 

The  Savoys  have  leaves  much  more  curly  than  the  other 
varieties,  and  the  middle  part  of  their  fu'm  heads  is  excellent 
for  boiling,  and  particularly  fine  for  cole,  or  cold  slaw,  or 
kohl  slaw,  as  the  Germans  term  it.  The  dwarf  and  the  yel- 
low Savoy  will  stand  the  frost.  The  Brussels  sprouts  are 
something  like  the  Savoy,  but  grow  often  three  or  four  feet 
high.  The  sprouts  form  in  little,  delicate  heads  all  the  way 
up.  The  top  of  the  stalk  is  more  solid,  and  it  is  that  which 
is  like  the  Savoy. 

The  Catdijiower  and  Broccoli  are  among  the  most  desirable 
of  the  cabbage  tribe,  and  bring  a  higher  price  than  any. 
The  former  is  probably  a  native  of  the  island  of  Cyprus,  and 
the  broccoli  is  said  to  have  been  introduced  into  Holland  and 
England  from  Italy,  in  the  seventeenth  century.  They  are 
quite  similar  in  habit  and  taste,  but  the  broccoli  will  bear 
the  frost  and  cold  better  than  the  cauliflower.  Both  are 
very  great  favorites  and  very  delicate. 

The  leaves  of  all  kinds  of  cabbage  decay  very  early,  and 
are  then  exceedingly  offensive.  They  should  never  be 
allowed  to  remain  in  the  cellar  or  lie  about  the  house,  as 
they  are  very  injurious  to  the  health.  The  water  in  which 
cabbage  is  boiled  is  also  offensive  and  unhealthy,  and  should 
be  poured  into  drains  where  it  "will  the  soonest  pass  off. 

Our  farmers  often  feed  the  outside  leaves  of  cabbage  to 
their  cattle.  All  very  well  if  they  do  not  give  them  to  their 
milcli  cotos.  Many  of  our  dairymen  will  not  believe  that 
cabbage  or  turnips  injure  the  flavor  of  milk  or  butter,  but  we 
think  their  taste  must  be  greatly  perverted  if  they  fail  to 
detect  the  flavor  at  once. 


PULSE.  229 


LVI. 


PULSE. 

MANY  of  the  most  useful  and  important  of  farinaceous 
or  mealy  kinds  of  vegetables  are  known  under  the 
name  of  i^^'-^^^-  -^^  ^^^  large  varieties  of  the  hean,  pea, 
lentil,  tare,  and  vetch  belong  to  this  family. 

The  Vetch  and  Tare  are  chiefly  used  for  cattle ;  very  sel- 
dom in  this  country  or  England  are  they  seen  on  our  tables, 
even  among  the  poorest  class  of  people ;  but  the  lentil,  a 
kind  of  bean,  is  greatly  esteemed  among  the  French  and 
Germans,  and,  when  properly  and  carefully  prepared  and 
seasoned,  is  more  highly  esteemed  by  them  than  the  common 
pea  and  bean.  They  consider  the  flavor  better,  and  the 
vegetable  itself  more  nourishing.  In  France  it  is  extensively 
used  for  seasoning  soups,  but  in  England  and  America  is  not 
much  known  except  as  food  for  cattle. 

Xext  to  nuts  and  fruits,  all  kinds  of  pulse  were  important 
articles  of  food  in  the  earlier  ages,  for  it  required  little  labor 
and  skiU  to  produce  or  raise  them.  When  fresh  and  tender, 
many  kinds  of  pulse  can  be  employed  in  cooking,  particularly 
for  soups,  and  many  that  we  know  nothing  of  except  through 
books,  would  flourish  in  our  climate,  both  North  and  South, 
and  might  be  profitably  cultivated.  Year  by  year  we  find 
something  new  in  our  agricultural  catalogues,  as  well  as  in 
the  horticultural  and  floral. 

Feas  and  Beans  when  dried  are  less  digestible  and  health- 
ful than  when  eaten  green,  as  the  skin  becomes  hard,  and 
unless  removed,  as  it  can  be  by  rubbing  through  a  sieve  for 
soups,  \vill,  mth  many  people,  produce  flatulency,  constipa- 
tion, and  often  severe  colic.     But   green    or   dried,    almost 


230      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

every  sort  of  pulse  will  fiu'nisli  excellent  food  for  most  of 
our  domestic  animals,  and  is  also  considered  very  desirable 
to  alternate  with  other  crops,  for,  if  corn  or  grain  is  raised 
year  after  year,  on  the  same  piece  of  land,  it  will  in  a  short 
time  wear  out  the  soil ;  but  pulse  does  not  impoverish  the 
land,  and  therefore  may  be  grown  on  fields  that  require  rest 
from  more  exhausting  crops. 

We  learn  that  the  time  of  the  discovery  of  peas  and  beans 
has  not  been  satisfactorily  ascertained,  but  they  were  in  early 
times  extensively  cultivated,  especially  the  ^^ea,  in  India, 
China  and  Japan,  although  evidently  not  a  native  of  any 
of  the  extreme  warm  climates.  When  the  English  were  be- 
sieging a  castle  in  Lathian,  in  1299,  they  were  well  pleased 
to  supply  their  exhausted  stores  with  this  kind  of  pulse, 
which  grew  in  that  vicinity  abundantly,  and  doubtless,  on 
learning  its  nutritious  properties,  gladly  introduced  it  into 
their  own  country.  During  Queen  Elizabeth's  reign,  her 
table  was  supplied  with  peas  from  Holland  ;  fit  food,  says 
one  of  the  writers  of  that  time,  for  royal  ladies,  because 
"  it  was  brought  so  far  and  cost  so  dear." 

ISTow,  under  careful  and  more  enlightened  culture,  the 
varieties  of  peas  raised  in  this  country  and  throughout  Eu- 
rope are  numerous.  To  speak  of  them  all  and  of  the  whole 
family  of  pulse  would  require  a  volume.  Exit  much  depends 
on  the  section  in  which  the  different  varieties  are  raised,  for, 
as  with  most  kinds  of  produce,  that  which  in  one  locality 
would  prove  most  excellent,  when  transferred  to  another 
will  become  quite  inferior. 

The  Chich-pea  is  small  and  not  very  digestible.  It  will 
not  boil  soft,  but,  like  some  of  the  lentils,  is  parched,  and 
in  Egypt  and  Syria  sold  in  the  shops  to  travellers,  by  whom 
it  is  greatly  esteemed,  because  while  passing  through  the 
deserts  it  occupies  little  room  and  needs  no  preparation. 
Youmans  says  that  it  will  sustain  more  life,  weight  for  weight. 


ruLSE.  231 

than  any  other  kind  of  food,  and  that  peas  and  beans  are 
ranked  first  among  the  concentrated,  strength-imparting 
food ;  but  althougli  strength-giving,  we  do  not  think  it 
easily  digested,  unless  eaten  Avhile  fresh  and  tender,  and 
cooked  with  care.  Some  kinds  of  peas  are  prepared  by  the 
Chinese  as  a  vegetable  cheese. 

It  would  be  useless  to  attempt  to  mention  the  best  varie- 
ties of  either  peas  or  beans.  Some  seek  for  the  earliest, 
some  the  largest  or  most  prolific.  In  selecting,  it  is  always 
wise  to  go  to  some  intelligent  seedsman,  keeping  a  large  as- 
sortment of  all  kinds  of  seeds,  and  learn  his  opinion ;  then, 
from  the  information  thus  obtained,  decide  which  variety 
will  best  meet  your  Avishes  and  locality.  Some  kinds  of 
peas,  like  the  string  l^ean,  have  the  pod  and  seed  cut  up  and 
cooked  together. 

The  Turnip  was  introduced  into  England  from  Hanover. 
It  now  grows  wild  in  many  parts  of  England,  bixt  the 
wild  kind  cannot,  by  cultivating,  be  brought  up  to  the  ex- 
cellency of  our  garden  and  farm  turnip.  The  turnip  tops 
are  brought  into  market  for  greens.  The  medium-sized  roots 
are  better  than  the  largest,  which  are  liable  to  become  corky 
or  spongy. 

The  Carrot  was  brought  to  England  by  Flemish  refugees, 
during  the  reign  of  Elizabeth,  and  the  leaves  were  in  great 
demand  by  her  court  ladies  as  ornaments  for  the  hair.  The 
ladies  of  the  present  day  are  not  satisfied  to  use  it  for  that 
purpose,  but  by  putting  a  root  into  a  glass  of  water,  and 
hanging  in  a  window,  in  a  feAV  weeks  they  have  a  pretty, 
graceful  window  ornament,  as  young  leaves  will  start  out  and 
form  a  green  ball,  very  delightful  to  the  eye  in  mid-winter. 
Both  turnips  and  carrots  are  largely  used  on  the  table,  and 
are  very  desirable  to  season  soups  or  stews,  or  garnish  fancy 
dishes.  The  carrot  makes  a  very  good  pie,  and  with  a  judi- 
cious use  of  eggs  and  cream  can  be  made  quite  palatable. 


232   MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

When  boiled  and  prepared  for  the  table,  the  young  and 
tender  roots  should  be  selected,  as  when  large  or  old  they 
become  Avoody  and  fibrous.  The  carrot  is  excellent  food  for 
horses  and  cows.  Unlike  the  turnip,  it  imparts  no  unpleasant 
taste  to  the  milk,  and  is,  therefore,  very  desirable  for  winter 
feed.  The  carrot  contains  a  much  larger  proportion  of  sugar 
than  most  of  the  esculent  roots  ;  a  large  quantity  of  spirits 
can  be  distilled  from  it,  and  it  is  sometimes  used  instead  of 
malt  for  beer. 

The  Parsnip  is  also  a  native  of  Britain,  and  largely  used,  not 
oidy  for  soups  and  garnishing  dishes,  but  as  a  vegetable ;  or, 
dipped  in  a  batter  of  butter,  flour,  and  white  of  eggs,  it  is 
fried  a  delicate  brown,  and  sent  to  the  table  as  a  side-dish. 
During  Lent,  it  is  much  eaten  with  fish.  It  is  even  sweeter 
than  the  carrot,  ŌĆö  much  too  sweet  to  please  all  tastes.  Like 
the  carrot,  it  is  excellent  in  soups,  and  is  sometimes  made 
into  bread.  A  kind  of  wine,  said  to  resemble  the  Malmsley 
wiae  of  Madeira,  can  be  made  from  the  parsnip.  In  Ireland, 
they  brew  it  with  hops,  and  make  what  they  consider  an 
agreeable  drink.  Parsnips  and  potatoes,  in  Scotland,  are 
often  beaten  up  with  butter,  and  a  nice  dish  for  children 
prepared  from  them. 

The  varieties  of  the  Onion  tribe  are  more  widely  spread 
over  the  whole  world  than  any  other  article  of  food.  The 
onion,  leek,  chive,  garlic,  and  shallot  are  the  kinds  in  most 
universal  use.  In  Egypt  and  many  parts  of  Africa,  it  is 
noted  for  its  very  delicate  taste,  being  less  pungent  and  the 
odor  less  offensive  than  those  raised  with  us.  Two  thou- 
sand years  before  Christ,  it  had,  in  the  estimation  of  the 
Egyptians,  some  mysterious  signification,  and  was  worshipped 
by  them  as  possessing  wonderful  efficacy.  The  onion  is 
much  pleasanter  for  food  or  seasoning  in  warm  climates  than 
with  us.  Those  raised  in  Spain,  Portugal,  and  Strasburg  are 
famous  for  their  great  delicacy.     They  are  everywhere  used, 


PULSE.  233 

cooked,  raw,  or  made  into  salads.  When  eaten  raw  the  odor 
impai-ted  to  the  breath  is  exceedingly  disagreeable,  and,  even 
cooked  or  prepared  in  salads,  is  not  at  all  pleasant.  It  is 
said  that  chewing  a  little  raw  parsley  will  remove  this  an 
noyance,  or  a  few  kernels  of  roasted  colfee,  but  Ave  have 
never  known  anything  but  time  and  abstinence  that  did 
remedy  the  evil.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  it  should  be  so, 
for  they  would  otherwise  be  great  favorites  with  all,  and  are, 
no  doubt,  very  wholesome. 

The  Leek  is  more  used  in  Switzerland  and  Scotland,  ŌĆö  in- 
deed, in  all  cold,  mountainous  regions,  both  on  account  of 
its  being  hardy,  and  because  its  exceeding  pungency  is  a 
recommendation  in  these  cold  regions.  It  is  a  very  important 
ingredient  in  two  Scotch  dishes  that  were  the  noted  favorites 
of  King  James  I.,  the  "  Cock-a-leekie  "  and  "  Haggis."  They 
claim  in  Wales  and  Scotland  that  the  leek  was  brought 
to  them  by  St.  David,  The  blanched  stem  is  the  best 
for  soups  and  stews,  and  is  more  esteemed  in  France  than 
with  us. 

The  Chive  is  a  native  of  Britain  and  France.  It  is  some- 
times found  wild  in  the  pastures,  and,  if  eaten  by  cows,  im- 
parts a  very  offensive  taste  to  the  milk.  It  is  milder  than 
the  onion  or  leek.  The  leaves  are  the  part  used  for  broths 
and  soups,  and  in  some  kinds  of  omelets,  especially  in 
France,  it  is  thought  to  be  indispensable.  With  us,  it  is 
more  frequently  found  in  the  dishes  at  restaurants  and  hotels 
than  at  our  private  tables. 

The  Garlic  is  the  most  oifensive  of  the  onion  tribe.  It 
grows  naturally  in  Sicily  and  the  South  of  France,  and  from 
there  found  its  way  into  Britain  and  America.  It  is  very 
little  used  with  us,  but  is  found  at  almost  aU  tables  in  Italy, 
though  the  root  is  only  boiled  to  season  soups  and  other 
dishes,  and  removed  as  soon  as  it  has  imparted  a  sufficiently 
strong  flavor. 


234      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

The  Shallot  grows  wild  in  Palestine,  and  was  introduced 
into  England  by  the  Crusaders.  It  is  still  more  pungent  in 
taste  than  the  garlic,  but  not  as  offensive.  Used  in  pickles, 
soups,  and  made  dishes. 

The  Rosamhole  is  a  native  of  Denmark.  It  partakes  of 
the  character  of  both  the  garlic  and  the  shallot,  and  is  used 
in  a  similar  manner. 


LVII. 

POT-HERBS  AND   SALADS. 

THE  number  of  plants  and  vegetables  that  are  of  excel- 
lent quality,  and  can  be  profitably  cultivated  for  pur- 
poses of  pot-herbs  and  salads,  are  so  numerous  that  we  can 
only  mention  the  names,  with  here  and  there  an  item,  that 
we  may  rouse  the  young  housekeeper's  curiosity  sufficiently 
to  tempt  her  to  search  for  tlieir  full  history  herself  and  we 
hope  lead  others  to  do  the  same. 

In  Burr's  "  Field  and  Garden  Vegetables  of  America,"  is 
a  "  full  description  of  nearly  eleven  hundred  species  and 
varieties,  with  directions  for  propagation,  culture,  and  use." 
Among  them  are  many  species  and  varieties  which  make 
excellent  salads  and  greens. 

The  Leaf-heet  is  much  esteemed.  The  leaf  is  used  for  greens. 
The  rib,  which  is  called  Swiss  chard.,  is  cut  out,  boiled, 
and  dressed  like  asparagus,  Avhich  it  resembles  in  taste. 
There  are  five  varieties,  of  which  the  silver-leaf  is  the  best. 

Three  varieties  of  the  Nightshade  ŌĆö  the  white  from  East 
India,  the  large-leafed  China  malabar,  and  the  red  malabar 
from  China  ŌĆö  furnish  a  desirable  addition  to  our  pot-herbs. 
The  juice  from  the  fruit  of  the  red  variety  supplies  a  beauti- 


POT-HERBS  AND  SALADS.  235 

fill  color,  but  is  not  permanent.  The  black,  or  deadly  night- 
shade, is  poisonous. 

The  Nettle,  of  which  only  one  kind  is  mentioned,  will 
grow  anywhere  spontaneously,  but  is,  in  many  places,  largely 
cultivated,  and  is  excellent  for  greens.  The  j^oung,  tender 
buds  or  shoots  are  nipped  oft"  as  they  appear,  and  will  shoot 
out  again  very  rapidly.  By  being  put  into  a  green  or  forcing- 
house,  it  furnishes  a  good  substitute  for  cabbage,  colewort, 
or  winter  spinach.  If  placed  near  a  flue  in  the  hot-house  in 
winter,  it  will  supply  excellent  nettle-kale  all  through  the 
winter.  Lawson  says  :  "  The  merits  of  tliis  generally  ac- 
counted troublesome  plant  have  been  quite  overlooked. 
Aside  from  the  food  it  can  supply,  the  stalk  is  quite  fibrous, 
and  may  be  made  into  ropes  and  cordage  and  good  thread ; 
besides  a  white,  beautiful  linen-like  cloth  can  be  manufac- 
tured from  it,  but  it  has  never  been  cultivated  for  that  pur- 
pose.    It  is  an  Asiatic  plant." 

Spinach  is  one  of  the  most  important  of  this  class  of  edi- 
bles. It  grows  wild  in  England.  Flanders  supplies  us  with 
some  of  the  cultivated  kinds.  The  orache,  or  mountain  spin- 
ach, is  quite  hardy  and  very  good.  It  is  a  native  of  Tartary, 
and  was  brought  into  England  by  Sir  John  Banks. 

The  Qxnnoa,  a  native  of  Mexico,  is  easily  cultivated  here. 
The  leaves  are  used  like  spinach.  The  seeds  in  some  places 
are  made  to  take  the  place  of  corn  or  wheat  for  bread,  and 
are  excellent  food  for  poultry. 

The  English  and  Irish  Sea-beet  are  much  liked  in  some 
places,  and  are  easily  cultivated. 

The  Shepherd s-purse  tastes  somewhat  like  cabbage,  but  is 
much  more  delicate.  That  which  is  raised  and  marketed  in 
Philadelphia  is  wonderfully  juicy,  and  the  leaf  grows  quite 
large. 

Of  the  salad  plants,  Celery  stands  among  the  first.  It  is  a 
native  of  England,  and  has  many  varieties,  too  numerous  to 
mention  here. 


236      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Lettuce  is  an  Asiatic  plant,  and,  like  celery,  is  an  important 
and  almost  indispensable  article  in  preparing  chicken,  lobster, 
or  other  mixed  salads.  It  is  also  eaten  plain  with  simply- 
salt  or  dressed  with  vinegar,  sugar,  and  oil ;  or,  what  is  better 
still,  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  Avitli  sugar  and  rich  cream. 

The  Endive,  a  native  of  China  and  Japan,  is  largely  culti- 
vated in  America,  and  by  many  considered  one  of  the  best 
autumn,  winter,  and  early  spring  salads. 

Corn-salad,  brought  from  the  South  of  France  and  Europe, 
is  sometimes  boiled  or  cooked  like  spinach  ;  but  usually  the 
young  leaves  are  dressed  for  salad,  and  in  winter  and  early 
spring  are  excellent. 

Cress,  or  pepper-grass,  belongs  to  Persia,  but  is  largely 
raised  here ;  eaten  as  a  salad,  either  separately  or  mixed  with 
lettuce  or  celery.     The  varieties  are  quite  numerous. 

Horse-radish  and  Mustard  are  from  Europe.  The  young 
tips  are  sometimes  mixed  Avith  other  greens,  and  their  natu- 
ral pungency  adds  quite  a  pleasant  flavor  to  less  highly 
spiced  pot-herbs. 

The  Nastiirtkim  is  from  Peru.  The  seeds  make  a  pickle 
almost  equal  to  the  caper,  and  the  young  shoots  furnish  a 
fine,  pungent  salad ;  and  in  all  its  many  varieties  it  is  a 
pretty  garden  ornament. 

The  Piorslain,  Rape,  and  Bochei  are  natives  of  Europe. 

The  Samphire  is  used  as  a  seasoning  for  salads.  Tarragon, 
from  Siberia,  is  also  put  in  salads  for  seasoning,  and  much 
used  steeped  in  vinegar  for  dressings  of  various  kinds. 

Valeriana,  as  a  salad,  is  by  some  thought  more  desirable 
than  corn-salad,  and  is  likewise  a  very  beautiful  garden  orna- 
ment. 

All  these  and  many  more  can  be  grown  in  our  own  coun- 
try, and  most  of  them  with  very  little  trouble.  Interesting 
statements  respecting  them  can  be  found  in  most  of  the  agri- 
cultural books,  which  are  well  Avorth  reading. 


MISTAKES   IN   COOKING   VEGETABLES.  237 

LYIIL 
MISTAKES   IN   COOKING  VEGETABLES. 

FRESH  vegetables,  properly  prepared,  are  among  the 
most  important  articles  of  food.  They  mostly  abound 
in  saline  substances  that  are  indispensable  to  the  mainte- 
nance of  a  healthy  condition  of  the  whole  system ;  but  to 
secure  the  blessings  they  were  designed  to  yield,  every- 
thing depends  on  their  being  freshly  gathered  and  carefully 
cooked. 

It  is  very  ditficult  to  obtain  fresldy  gathered  vegetables 
when  one  is  obhged  to  depend  on  the  city  markets  for  them. 
In  this,  as  in  many  other  things,  our  farmers,  and  those  who 
can  afford  even  a  small  vegetable  garden,  have  far  more  to 
be  thankful  for  than  those  whose  home  is  in  the  city,  and 
Avhose  tastes  and  desires  extend  no  farther ;  for  although  to 
those  who  heartily  rehsh  the  summer  productions,  stale 
vegetables  may  be  better  than  none,  yet  the  use  of  them  is 
always  an  unsafe  experiment,  making  easy  victims  for  the 
many  diseases  incident  to  the  summer ;  whereas  we  imagine 
a  reasonable  prodigality  in  eating  most  of  the  summer  vege- 
tables and  fruits,  when  they  can  be  had  every  day  fresh  from 
the  garden,  is  peculiarlj"  conducive  to  the  enjopnent  of 
sound  health. 

Then,  as  regards  the  cooking  of  the  many  kinds  of  vege- 
tables that  are  desirable  only  when  fresh,  it  must  be  remem- 
bered that  many  sorts  have  a  large  proportion  of  woody 
tissues,  which  require  a  suitable  degree  of  heat  by  which 
they  can  be  softened  or  decomposed  before  they  may  be 
eaten  with  impunity.  That  done,  and  the  acid  which  is 
found  in  almost  all  esciilent  vecfetables  becomes  an  essential 


238      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

assistance  to  sound  digestion,  as  it  tends  to  strengthen  and 
give  tone  to  the  stomach. 

Hard  luater  is  often  recommended  for  cooking  many  kinds 
of  vegetables,  but  Ave  know  of  none  that  are  improved,  and 
many  that  are  injured  by  it.  Beans  and  peas,  for  instance, 
arc  injured  by  boiling  in  hard  water,  whereas  if  soft  water 
is  used  the  skin  softens,  loses  its  huskiness,  and  these  deli- 
cate vegetables  become  highly  nutritious. 

A  little  soda  is  used  by  many  cooks  in  preparing  vege- 
tables ;  but  it  is  only  Avhen  one  is  so  unfortunate  as  to  be 
unable  to  procure  soft  water  to  cook  with  that  we  think  it 
can  be  tolerated.  To  be  sure,  it  secures  a  fine  green  with 
some  articles,  such,  as  peas  and  beans,  and  makes  them  very 
tender,  but  this  is  gained  at  the  expense  of  all  sweetness  and 
natural  flavor. 

A  few  rules  for  gathering  and  preparing  vegetables  in  the 
country  may  be  given,  which,  if  carefully  observed,  'will 
secure  their  being  brought  to  the  table  in  an  excellent  con- 
dition, and  eaten  without  one  murmur  of  dissatisfaction. 

First,  be  sure  that  they  were  raised  from  the  best  of  seed. 
It  is  useless  to  expect  good  vegetables  unless  they  spring 
from  the  most  perfect  and  best  variety  of  seed.  "  Do  men 
gather  grapes  of  thorns  or  figs  of  thistles  1 "  Those  who 
cultivate  but  a  few  acres  simply  for  family  use,  having 
learned  the  importance  of  choosing  their  seed  with  care,  are 
every  year  becoming  more  and  more  particular  in  their 
search  for  the  finest  varieties.  More  depends  on  this  than 
farmers  have  been  accustomed  to  think ;  but  seeing.  Avhat 
can  be  done  by  amateur  gardeners  through  care,  and  reading 
the  success  of  other  experiments,  they  are  giving  much  more 
attention  to  this  than  was  customary  in  former  years.  The 
result  is,  that  there  is  no  longer  any  excuse  for  having  a 
poor  article  brought  either  from  your  own  garden  or  the 
market.     It  is  the  leno-th  of  time  it  has  been  crathered,  and 


MISTAKES   IN   COOKING   VEGETABLES.  239 

the  manner  in  which  it  has  been  prepared,  that  determines 
its  excellence. 

All  vegetables  are  injured  by  lying  exposed  to  sun  and 
rain ;  but  corn,  peas,  fresh  beans,  asjiaragus,  and  lettuce 
become  ])erfectly  worthless.  They  should  be  gathered  whih; 
the  dew  is  yet  on  them,  brought  to  the  house,  and  placed  at 
ouce  in  a  cool  place  where  the  sun  will  not  strike  upon  them. 
It  is  better  to  leave  corn  in  the  husk,  peas  and  beans  in  the 
pods,  until  it  is  time  to  prepare  them  for  cooking.  Then 
Avatch  that  they  are  not  left  long  in  water,  if,  indeed,  you  can- 
not avoid  washing  them  entirely.  Corn  when  taken  from 
the  husk  needs  no  washing  ;  simply  remove  all  the  silk.  If 
there  is  a  black  or  rusty  spot  on  an  ear  of  corn,  reject  it 
entirely ;  it  shows  the  beginning  of  disease.  It  improves  a 
mess  of  peas,  adding  greatly  to  their  sweetness,  to  boil  the 
Ō¢Āpods,  after  shelling,  about  fifteen  minutes  in  the  water  you 
are  about  to  boil  the  peas  in.  For  this  purpose,  you  must 
pour  cold  water  over  tlie  pods,  to  remove  any  dust  or  mi- 
nute bugs  that  may  hv.  upon  them  ;  wash  quickly,  and 
then  leave  them  to  drain  before  shelling.  The  peas,  of  course, 
after  this  need  no  washing,  neither  do  beans.  Aspara- 
gus should  be  Avashed  quickly,  to  remove  all  dust ;  but 
must  on  no  account  be  left  in  the  water  a  moment  after  it  is 
clean.  As  soon  as  washed,  put  in  a  cullender  to  drain,  and 
then  over  the  stove  to  cook  as  soon  as  you  can.  All  vege- 
tables should  be  laid  in  the  saucepan  in  which  they  are  to  be 
cooked,  with  sufficient  salt  to  season  sprinkled  over  them ; 
thea  boiling  water  poured  on,  and  the  Avhole  brought  to  a 
boil  immediately,  else  they  become  of  a  brownish  color  and 
look  very  uninviting.  The  salt,  either  put  on  them  first  or 
the  water  salted  before  they  are  put  in,  prevents  the  color 
changing.  Then  boil,  or,  what  is  better,  steam  them  for 
the  proper  time,  ŌĆö  twenty  minutes  for  asparagus,  peas,  and 
corn  is  long  enough,  never  over  thirty  minutes  ;  when  so  old 


ŌĆó2iO      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH    YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

as  to  need  longer  cooking,  they  are  too  old  to  use  at  aU, 
Beans  require  longer  time,  unless  very  young  ;  from  tlaree 
quarters  of  an  hour  to  an  hour  will  be  necessary. 

Very  few  vegetables,  comparatively,  are  as  digestible  raw 
as  when  cooked  ;  those  used  for  salads,  such  as  celery,  let- 
tuce, cabbage,  etc.,  are  exceptions.  Some  which  when  raw 
are  quite  poisonous  can,  by  skillful  boiling,  be  transformed 
into  our  most  nutritious  and  easily  digested  food ;  yet  the 
attempt  to  cook  them  is  too  often  made  in  such  a  careless  and 
reckless  way  that,  although  whatever  poison  they  contain 
when  raw  is  dispelled,  the  mode  of  cooking  makes  them 
about  as  injurious  to  the  health  as  the  poison  could  have 
been,  ŌĆö  half  raw  or  overcooked  till  they  are  clammy  or  sod- 
den, or  cooked  with  salt  and  fat  meat  until  their  whole  na- 
ture seems  changed,  ŌĆö  requiring  a  stomach  like  that  of  an 
ostrich  to  digest  them. 

The  potato,  when  raw,  is  not  only  unpalatable  and  injuri- 
ous, but  is  supposed  to  be  really  poisonous,  while  proper 
cooking  changes  it  to  one  of  the  most  palatable  and  healthful 
of  all  vegetables. 

The  bitter  cassava  is  so  deadly  when  raw  that  the  Indians 
use  the  juice  to  poison  their  arrows  ;  but  when  grated  and 
pressed,  to  remove  the  juice,  it  is  subjected  to  a  heat  which 
destroys  all  that  is  unsafe,  and  then  we  have  the  tapioca,  so 
much  prized  for  table  use,  and  which  is  regarded  by  many 
physicians  as  far  more  digestible  for  infants  than  arrowroot ; 
but  the  S7veet  cassava,  from  which  bread  is  made,  is,  even 
when  raw,  free  from  all  harmful  qualities.  The  wake-robin, 
from  which  sago  is  made,  is  so  poisonous  that  the  juice  will 
blister  the  hand  ;  but  like  the  cassava,  when  roasted  or 
boiled,  is  entirely  free  from  all  injurious  qualities,  and  is, 
after  being  thus  cooked,  made  into  sago. 

In  many  of  our  "  cook-books  "  mint  is  recommended  for 
seasoning  various  kinds  of  vegetables,  but  we  do  not  believe 


MISTAKES   IN   COOKING   VEGETABLES.  241 

a  good  vegetable  can  be  improved  by  anything  that  destroys 
the  true  natural  taste.  Peas  may  be  mucli  improved,  we 
think,  by  boiling  the  pods,  after  washing  them  in  clear  soft 
water,  about  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  strain  the  water  from  the 
pods,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  add  some  salt  to  keep  the  peas  green, 
and  use  as  much  as  is  needed  to  boil  the  peas  themselves  in. 
It  gives  them  all  the  sweetness  that  the  pod  contains, 
which  is  sufficiently  near  the  flavor  of  the  pea  not  to  impart 
any  unnatural  taste.  A  little  cream  may  be  added  with  the 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt  required  to  dress  them,  although  we 
think  tlie  little  water  that  is  needed  to  cook  them  (and  it 
should  be  very  little)  is  far  better.  When  we  see  a  little  mint 
advised  to  "  give  a  fine  flavor,"  we  have  no  objection  to  others 
enjoying  it,  but  confess  we  think  it  a  perverted  taste. 

Peas,  beans,  asparagus,  corn,  and  potatoes  should  be  either 
steamed  or  cooked  in  as  little  water  as  can  be  usod  without 
burning  them  ;  and  to  dress  the  first  three,  some  of  the 
water  in  which  they  are  boiled  should  be  used  ;  then,  in 
helping  them  out,  if  any  prefer  them  dry,  it  is  very  easy  to 
take  them  from  the  dish  free  from  liquor. 

Another  great  mistake  consists  in  allowing  most  kinds  of 
vegetables  to  cook  too  long.  Some  require  much  longer 
time  to  cook  than  others,  but  all  need  careful  watching. 
Beets,  turnips,  carrots,  parsnips,  etc.,  need  considerable  cook- 
ing ;  but  if  you  go  beyond  a  certain  point  they  become 
watery  or  sodden,  and  lose  half  their  excellence  or  are  com- 
pletely ruined.  Peas,  corn,  and  potatoes  should  require  but 
little  time  to  be  cooked  sufficiently.  When  young,  peas 
and  corn  do  not  require  over  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  ;  as 
they  become  larger  or  attain  their  full  growth,  thirty  minutes 
may  be  needed  ;  if  more  than  that,  they  are  no  longer  fit  to 
use,  except  for  soups  or  meal. 

Peas,  beans,  asparagus,  and  lettuce  are  often  injured  by 
being  washed  too  much,  or  by  being  left  soaking  in  water. 
11  p 


242      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

AVash  as  little  and  as  quickly  as  possible  ;  drain,  then  cover 
up  the  dish,  and  put  them  in  a  cool  place  out  of  the  sun  till 
ready  to  cook.  Lettuce,  particularly,  will  be  far  more  crisp 
and  tender  if,  after  washing  and  picking  it  over  carefully, 
it  is  laid  on  ice  till  needed. 


LIX. 
DIVIDED  FAMILY  GOVERNMENT. 

"  ~r  HAVE  a  family  of  young  children,  naturally  amiable 
JL  and  obedient,  who,  while  very  young,  seldom  needed 
even  slight  punishment ;  but  as  they  grow  older  wants  and 
wills  are  thickening,  and,  occasionally,  natural  perversity  and 
'  willfulness  are  manifested  which  sometimes  require  restraint. 
The  mother's  heart  would  shield  her  children  from  such 
denials  or  demands  as  the  father  sees  is  necessary  to  their 
proper  education  and  future  happiness.  Her  tenderness 
warps  her  judgment,  and  too  frequently  her  speech  and 
action  stand  opposed  to  mine.  Hence  the  question  must 
often  arise,  if  she  cannot  control  her  words  and  feelings  in 
the  presence  of  the  children  and  servants,  how  far  am  I 
bound,  in  view  of  the  future  well-being  of  our  offspring,  to 
push  my  authority,  and,  as  the  father  and  head  of  the  house, 
insist  upon  her  yielding  to  my  judgment  without  such  oppo- 
sition ;  and  if  I  am  compelled  peremptorily  to  insist  upon 
her  silence,  when  I  am  attempting  to  control  our  children, 
what  is  her  duty  1 " 

These  questions,  which  have  been  addressed  to  us,  are  full 
of  interest ;  and  the  answer,  if  given  simply  from  the  first 
impressions  derived  from  the  perusal  of  the  letter,  without 
mature  deliberation,  would  seem  comparatively  easy.     But  a 


DIVIDED   FAMILY  GOVERNMENT.  243 

few  moments'  careful  reflection  will  suffice  to  show  that, 
looked  at  in  all  the  various  aspects  necessary  to  form  a  thor- 
oughly correct  judgment,  it  is  a  very  intricate  and  important 
subject,  for  wliich  no  one  general  rule  can  be  made  to  meet 
the  necessities  of  all.  The  happiness  of  the  family,  as  a 
whole,  and  the  future  welfare  of  the  children,  require  a 
united  government ;  but,  unfortunately,  we  do  not  see  it 
to  any  wide  extent.  Children,  who  should  be  a  bond  of 
union,  are  too  often  the  cause  of  dissension  and  division. 
If  the  father  is  stern,  arbitrary,  and  unreasonable  in  deal- 
ing with  the  little  ones,  a  judicious  mother,  who  has  suffered 
for  them  and  watched  over  them  by  day  and  by  night 
from  their  birth,  naturally  shrinks  from  the  effects  which 
severity  or  irritability  must  have  on  their  young  and 
tender  minds,  knowing,  in  almost  every  case,  that  gentle- 
ness and  love  will  soften  the  heart  and  secure  obedience, 
while  coldness  and  harshness  will  harden,  and  provoke  re- 
bellion. 

Or,  perhaps,  on  the  other  hand,  the  father  is  loving  and 
tender,  yet  firm ;  fully  aware  that  foolish  and  injudicious 
indulgence,  although  for  the  present  gratifying,  will  in  the 
end  work  out,  not  the  peaceable  fruits  of  righteousness,  but, 
for  the  children,  years  of  sin  and  sorrow  ;  for  the  parents, 
wretchedness,  tribulation,  and  anguish.  With  a  fother 
whose  constant  thought  is  to  seek  the  best  interest  of  his 
children,  even  though  it  can  be  obtained  only  at  the  ex- 
pense of  some  self-denial,  if  the  mother  co-operates,  the 
training  of  their  family  will  be  a  labor  fuU  of  love  and  glad- 
ness. "When  both  parents  see  eye  to  eye,  and  seek  God's 
blessing  on  every  step,  they  may  rest  assured  that  their  chil- 
dren, thus  led  in  the  way  they  should  go,  will,  in  mature 
age,  rise  up  and  call  them  blessed. 

It  is  very  strange  that  parents,  with  so  many  examples 
which  should  on  the  one   hand   warn    them  against   over- 


244      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

indulgence,  and  on  the  other  encourage  them  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  all  needed  discipline,  should  not  learn  to  avoid 
disputes  or  discussion  in  the  presence  of  their  families. 
"When  they  so  far  forget  their  children's  best  interests 
as  to  wrangle  and  dispute  whenever  a  case  of  discipline 
is  necessary,  and  allow  children  and  servants  to  hear  and 
see  the  whole,  they  not  only  lose  the  respect  of  those 
who  should  naturally  look  to  them  for  guidance  and 
help,  but,  more  than  all,  they  do  lasting  injury  to  those 
whom  they  should  protect  and  love.  One  or  two  speci- 
mens of  divided  counsels  and  the  mischief  is  done.  Children 
are  quick  to  observe  ;  they  turn  to  the  parent  who  they 
learn  will  be  most  ready  to  hide  their  faults  or  overlook 
their  short-comings  for  help  to  escape  punishment,  or  to  se- 
cure the  gratification  of  every  childish  whim  ;  but  they  soon 
learn  to  care  little  for  either  parent,  for  the  selfish  love  of  a 
child  who  has  lost  respect  and  reverence  for  father  or  mother 
is  of  little  value.  If  the  father  commands  and  the  mother, 
openly  or  privately,  cancels  the  injunction,  or  the  mother 
permits  an  indulgence  and  the  father  revokes  the  permis- 
sion, the  child  will  soon  become  angry  and  stubborn  ;  and 
even  if  not  daring  to  utter  reproach  and  insolence  openly, 
the  spirit  of  bitterness  and  revolt  is  aroused.  If  parents 
were  seeking  to  destroy  their  children,  they  could  scarcely 
find  any  means  so  well  calculated  to  accomplish  the  object. 
But  the  mischief  does  not  end  here ;  the  parents  them- 
selves become  embittered  by  such  dissensions.  Sometimes 
it  leads  to  disputes  and  quarrels,  and  sometimes  to  parti- 
sanship ;  and  thus  the  child's  selfishness,  jealousy,  and 
mercenary  nature  are  cultivated.  In  such  divided  house- 
holds better  far  are  early  deaths  than  life  and  health  for 
children  that  must  otherwise  grow  up  under  such  malign 
influences. 

If  parents  cannot  see  alike,  in  matters  of  family  govern- 


DIVIDED   FAMILY   GOVERNMENT.  245 

ment,  then  they  should  agree  between  themselves  on  some 
compromise  ;  but  in  the  presence  of  their  children,  these 
dillcrences  ought  never  to  be  mentioned.  Even  if  one 
parent  is  mistaken,  it  is  better  far  to  pass  the  mistake  by, 
unnoticed,  than  that  a  dispute  should  arise,  or  that  the  other 
parent  should  interfere  in  the  presence  of  servants  or  chil- 
dren. In  almost  all  such  cases  there  is  blame  on  both  sides  ; 
but,  right  or  wrong,  it  is  better  that  one  should  yield  in- 
stantly and  let  the  other  decide,  for  the  time  being,  than 
to  attempt  to  right  the  wrong  in  the  presence  of  any  one,  par- 
ticularly in  that  of  children.  It  is  not  hard  to  do  this  ; 
and,  0  parents  !  if  you  truly  love  each  other,  it  should  be 
very  sweet  and  easy  kindly  and  unselfishly  to  discuss  the 
matter  under  consideration ;  but  let  the  husband  dismiss 
during  the  discussion  all  idea  of  authoritij.  It  is  an  ugly 
Avord  between  husband  and  wife  at  all  times  ;  and  in  the 
endeavor  to  settle  a  disputed  point,  if  you  seek  for  any 
good  results,  keep  it  as  far  out  of  sight  as  possible.  Go  to 
your  wife  in  the  same  spirit  that  influenced  you  while  woo- 
ing her,  and  speak  mth  the  same  tenderness  ;  we  think 
words  thus  spoken  will  be  like  oil  on  the  troubled  waters, 
and  bring  you  into  closer  and  more  harmonious  union  than 
any  commands  can  do. 

But  while  settling  any  disputed  point  with  regard  to  the 
management  of  children,  it  should  be  constantly  remembered 
by  the  father  that,  of  necessity,  the  mother  must  have  more 
to  do  with  their  early  years,  and  can  hardly  fail  to  under- 
stand their  peculiarities  better  than  he  can  do.  It  is  only  a 
few  moments  at  a  time  that  the  father  can  spend  with 
tliem,  while  the  mother  must  watch  over  them  hourly, 
providing  for  aU  their  constantly  recurring  wants.  To 
her  belongs,  naturally,  the  care  of  their  health  and  early 
habits  5  to  her  the  watching  and  weariness  in  times  of 
sickness,  and  the  harassing  toil   of  nursing  them   through 


246      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

the  fretful  period  of  convalescence,  back  to  soundness  and 
vigor. 

In  the  few  hours  the  father's  business  allows  him  to  spend 
with  his  family,  he  may  be  able  to  see  the  weak  points  more 
clearly  than  the  mother  can  do,  who  must  be  always  with 
them.  He  may  see  plainly  how,  at  times,  she  weakly  yields 
to  their  caprices,  allowing  herself  to  become  a  slave  to  them, 
often  because  too  weary  to  be  firm.  This  is  the  time  when 
his  love,  tenderness,  and  sympathy  for  his  wife,  the  mother 
of  his  children,  should  be  most  earnestly  manifested ;  when 
he  can  prove  which  is  the  stronger,  which  better  fitted  to  be 
the  true  head  of  the  house.  These  weaknesses,  from  what- 
ever cause  they  spring,  should  not  be  noticed  before  the  httle 
despots  ;  when  alone,  the  husband,  with  the  greatest  kind- 
ness and  gentleness,  can  show  his  wife  how  such  indulgence 
will  lay  the  foundation  for  much  present  trouble,  and  per- 
haps for  a  corrupt  and  disgraceful  future.  If  she  has  good 
sense,  and  he,  with  unselfish  desire  for  the  good  of  all,  does 
not  seek  by  arrogant  dictation  to  set  himself  above  her,  we 
can  hardly  imagine  a  wife  and  mother  who  would  not  ear- 
nestly endeavor  to  make  the  necessity  of  such  appeals  very 
unfrequent. 

But  if  the  mother  is  frivolous  and  self-indulgent,  too  weak 
and  indolent  to  take  up  the  cross  of  refusing  childish,  un- 
reasonable importunities,  for  the  glory  that  shall  croAvn  her 
when,  by  her  firmness,  her  children  have  become  noble  men 
and  women,  ŌĆö  then,  God  help  her  who  can  thus  lay  the  ax 
to  the  root  of  all  domestic  happiness  !  For  the  husband 
and  father  to  push  his  authority  or  command  silence  with  the 
children  at  home,  constantly  exposed 'to  such  influences,  can 
do  no  good  ;  it  only  increases  the  difficulty.  We  know  of 
no  better  or  surer  way  to  save  the  children  than  to  remove 
them  from  home  and  a  weak  mother's  cruel  indulgence,  and 
place  them  in  some  school  where  health  and  morals  may  be 


HOW   CAN   WE  SECURE  GOOD   SERVANTS  1  247 

carefully  watched  over,  but  one  sufficiently  strict  to  save  them 
from  the  evils  of  too  great  indulgence.  This  is  a  hard  task  ; 
but  it  has  saved  many  children  whose  parents,  either  one  or 
both,  were  too  foolishly  tender  or  too  cruelly  indolent  to 
control  them,  as  God  has  commanded,  in  their  early  years. 


LX. 

HOW   CAN   WE  SECURE  GOOD  SERVANTS? 

MANY  inquiries  reach  us,  both  from  city  and  country, 
as  to  the  best  and  most  certain  way  to  secure,  if  not 
the  best,  at  least  tolerably  good  servants.  It  is  a  question 
impossible  to  answer  with  any  degree  of  certainty.  The  very 
best  inanagers,  the  kindest  and  most  conscientious,  are  no 
more  sure  of  being  suited  than  those  who  work  without 
method,  and  are  not  governed  by  the  law  of  kindness. 

"  Where  shall  we  apply  when  searching  for  help  1"  is  a 
question  that  is  asked  very  frequently,  and  is  equally  impos- 
sible to  answer.  Some  say,  "  Advertise."  The  next  will 
give  you  such  a  history  of  her  trials  from  advertising,  as  will 
most  effectually  frighten  you  from  that  mode  of  help-seeking. 
But  they  will  tell  you  to  go  to  one  intelligence  office,  and, 
if  that  fails,  refer  you  to  the  next  best.  Another  will  say, 
as  we  should,  that  of  all  places  an  intelligence  office  is  the 
most  disheartening  and  the  least  reliable  of  any. 

A  lady  in  the  country,  with  a  large  femily,  who  is  so  hap- 
py as  to  have  two  grown-up  daughters  for  her  chief  assistants, 
is  desirous  of  "  obtaining  a  raw  German  or  English  girl, 
hoping  to  be  able  to  train  her  to  do  general  housework  prop- 
erly," and  inquires  where  she  must  apply  to  obtain  such 
a  one,  "  right  from  the  sliip,"  before  a  week  or  two  of  idle- 


248      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

ness  has  taught  her  the  "  ways  and  the  manners  "  of  those 
who  have  been  in  this  country  longer. 

We_  have  very  httle  experience  with  what  are  called 
"  greenhorns,"  or  girls  right  from  the  emigrant  ships,  though 
we  doubt  if  they  can  be  any  more  ignorant  or  half  so  un- 
manageable as  many  of  the  girls  who  have  been  in  America 
for  years. 

The  emigrant  ships  which  come  to  ISTew  York  land  their 
passengers  at  Castle  Garden.  "  The  Labor  Bureau  of  the 
Commissioners  of  Emigration  "  is  under  the  supervision  of 
Eugene  Casserly,  and  we  are  told  by  reliable  authority,  that 
unless  friends  have  secured  employment  for  them  before  they 
reach  our  shores,  their  names,  if  they  come  seeking  work, 
are  registered  in  an  intelligence  office  there.  Eor  any  one 
proposing  to  seek  servants  from  among  those  just  landed,  it 
may  be  well  to  go  to  that  office,  when  these  ships  first  land 
their  passengers,  and  endeavor  to  form  as  correct  a  judgment 
as  is  possible,  before  actual  trial.  We  are  also  told  that  some 
little  conversation  with  the  officers  of  the  ship  will  sometimes 
make  the  selection  easier  or  more  satisfactory.  During  the 
tedious  passage  the  officers  have  many  opportunities  of  seeing 
their  passengers  under  circumstances  that  can,  if  they  choose 
to  notice,  enable  them  to  form  a  reasonably  correct  idea  of 
their  character  and  capacities  ;  though  Ave  fear  that  officers 
on  board  emigrant  ships  seldom  give  much  heed  to  those 
under  their  care. 

A  reader  inquires  "  if  it  would  be  safe  for  a  young  house- 
keeper to  attempt  to  train  a  'raw  recruit,'  and,  if  so,  from 
which  of  all  the  countries  whose  people  flock  to  our 
land  we  would  advise  her  to  seek  for  a  good,  reliable  ser- 
vant." 

It  requires  much  patience  and  no  small  degree  of  skill  to 
take  a  girl  from  another  country,  whose  whole  life  and  asso- 
ciations have  been  entirely  different  from  our  own,  and  bring 


HOW   CAN   WE  SECURE  GOOD  SERVANTS?  249 

her  into  a  new  life  by  teaching  her  to  forget  all  her 
early  habits  and  modes  of  working.  It  is  a  great  and  un- 
common gift  to  be  able  to  do  this  with  patient  kindness,  and 
yet  with  such  authority  as  insures  obedience.  Success  in 
such  an  undertaking  is  a  blessing  both  to  the  teacher  and  the 
pupil.  Now  and  then  we  find  one  who,  under  such  teaching 
and  benevolent  guidance,  has  fully  repaid  all  the  thought 
and  care  Avhich  has  been  bestowed  upon  her,  and  who,  by 
her  fidelity  and  unwearied  energy,  has  won  the  love  and 
grateful  appreciation  of  all,  and  is  looked  upon  as  the  good 
angel  of  the  family.  But  we  regret  to  say  such  characters 
are  rare  ;  and  though,  in  some  instances,  the  impatience  and 
irritability  of  the  mistress  may  repress  much  of  good  which, 
vmder  better  auspices,  might  have  been  developed,  yet  we  do 
not  believe  as  a  general  rule  that  the  chief  blame  should  rest 
with  the  mistress.  Not  one  in  a  hundred  ŌĆö  and  that  we 
fear  is  a  high  proportion  ŌĆö  of  all  the  Irish  that  come  to  our 
country  can,  by  any  amount  of  care,  patience,  or  indefatigable 
teaching,  be  transformed  into  a  neat,  energetic,  faithful, 
truth-telling  servant ;  and  as  for  gratitude,  once  in  a  while 
you  may  find  one  who  remembers  your  faithful  teaching, 
your  kindness  and  care  in  times  of  sickness  or  trouble,  who 
cannot  be  turned  from  her  fidelity  and  attachment  to  you  ; 
but  for  the  most  part  all  this  vanishes  like  the  morning  dew, 
at  the  first  chance  for  easier  work  or  higher  wages. 

The  English  and  Scotch,  as  far  as  our  observation  goes,  are 
more  inclined  to  make  their  employers'  interest  their  own. 
They  labor  as  faithfidly,  and  watch  with  an  eye  to  economy 
quite  as  earnestly,  when  left  in  charge  alone,  as  when  the 
master  and  mistress  are  near  them.  Of  course  there  are 
exceptions  to  every  rule ;  and  we  speak  more  from  our  own 
experience  than  from  what  others  say. 

The  Swiss  and  Swedes  are  usually  smart  and  capable  ;  but 
their  inability  to  understand  our  language  when  they  first 
11* 


250      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

come  to  us,  makes  their  instruction  difficult  and  tedious, 
unless  the  mistress  is  well  versed  in  foreign  languages. 

A  good  Welsh  gui  is  one  of  the  best,  ŌĆö  usually  neat, 
active,  and  quick  to  learn ;  and  as  the  pastors  of  the  Welsh 
churches  hold  it  a  part  of  their  duty  to  exercise  careful  su- 
pervision over  those  under  their  charge,  that  acts  as  a  great 
safeguard. 

There  are  no  better  servants  to  be  found  than  such  as 
come  from  Canada  and  Nova  Scotia,  if  one  can  secure  such 
as  bring  from  their  own  country  a  genuinely  good  character. 
Naturally  hardy  and  industrious,  they  are  not  the  land  of 
girls  who  begin  by  asking,  "  How  many  in  the  family  1  How 
large  is  the  washing?  Have  you  stationary  wash-tubs? 
What  privileges  do  you  allow  your  girls  ?  "  But  whatever 
they  are  told  to  do,  if  within  the  compass  of  their  ability, 
they  do  it  more  willingly  and  cheerfully  than  most.  But 
there  are  not  a  large  number  of  the  Swiss,  Swedish,  Welsh, 
or  Nova  Scotia  girls  to  be  had,  nor  are  all  who  come  to  our 
country  of  the  better  sort ;  so  that  whichever  way  we  turn  for 
domestic  help,  one  is  almost  compelled  to  feel  as  if  buying 
tickets  in  a  lottery. 


LXI. 

THE  GUEST-CHAMBER. 

IT  is  the  prevalent  opinion  among  housekeepers  that  the 
guest-chamber,  or  "  spare  room,"  must,  in  cA^ery  respect, 
be  the  best  and  most  desirable  chamber  in  the  house.  We 
think  this  a  mistaken  idea.  Of  course  the  room  should  be 
pleasant  and  inviting,  furnished  as  tastefully  and  with  as 
many  conveniences  as  can  be  afforded,  without  curtailing  the 


THE  GUEST-CHAMBER.  251 

comfort  and  pleasures  of  the  family,  and  with  such  regard  to 
comfort  that  a  guest,  on  entering,  may  feel  at  once  not  only 
at  home,  but  as  if  surrounded  with  kindness  and  thoughtfid 
care.  All  this  can  be  accomplished  without  appropriating 
the  largest  and  most  commodious  room  for  that  purpose. 
The  chambers  most  used,  and,  after  the  sitting-room,  most 
necessary  to  the  comfort  and  happiness  of  the  family,  to 
whom  the  house  is  home,  and  not  a  mere  transient  stopping- 
place,  should  be  the  best  ventilated,  the  largest,  and  most 
convenient.  The  mother's  chamber  and  the  nursery  ŌĆö  if 
there  must  be  two  apartments,  they  should  be  separated  only 
by  a  door,  that  the  mother's  care  may  be  near  at  hand  ŌĆö  ought 
to  be  chosen  with  reference  to  the  health  and  enjoyment  of 
those  who  are  expected  to  occupy  them  for  years.  The 
"spare  room"  should  be  a  secondary  consideration,  for  our 
guests  are  but  temporary  residents  of  our  rooms,  to  whom,  in- 
deed, must  be  given  all  the  time  and  attention  that  family 
cares  will  allow  ;  while  to  the  permanent  inmates  the  house  is 
a  resting-place  from  hard  labor,  a  refuge  from  outside  care 
for  some  of  the  family,  and  to  make  it  such  to  husband  and 
children,  the  housekeeper  has  a  daily  routine  of  duties  which 
can  be  wonderfully  lightened  by  pleasant  surroundings.  And 
thus,  for  reasons  having  a  bearing  on  every  member  of  the 
household,  it  seems  to  us  very  desirable  that  more  thought, 
care,  and  expense  be  given  to  secure  a  pleasant  outlook, 
a  thorough  ventilation,  and  attractive  and  convenient  furni- 
ture for  the  family  rooms,  than  for  the  one  set  apart  for  those 
who,  however  honored  and  beloved,  can  of  necessity  remain 
but  a  few  days. 

We  would  by  no  means  leave  the  impression  that  a  family 
should  selfishly  retain  their  regular  apartments  when  so  many 
guests  are  present  that  several  rooms  are  needed.  In  times 
of  large  gatherings  it  is  very  delightful  to  see  each  member 
of  the  household  contribute  some  part  of  his  or  her  rights 


252      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

to  the  free  and  cordial  entertainment  of  friends.  On  such 
occasions,  if  they  are  not  too  frequent,  it  is  quite  amusing 
and  conducive  to  much  sport  and  cheerfulness  to  meet  in 
family  council  and  discuss  the  ways  and  means  that  may  be 
employed  to  stretch  the  house,  so  that  twenty  people  can  be 
comfortably  lodged  in  a  space  where  usually  eight  or  ten 
have  only  sufficient  room.  This,  for  a  short  time,  is  no  hard- 
ship,ŌĆö  it  is  like  a  picnic,ŌĆö  and  every  child,  from  its  earliest 
years,  should  be  taught  there  is  a  pleasure  in  giving  up  rights, 
whims,  and  fancies,  connected  with  its  own  special  apart- 
ments, for  the  accommodation  of  others.  The  lesson  is  very 
easily  taught,  when  they  see  that  this  is  only  a  temporary 
thing;  knowing  this,  when  the  pressure  abates,  they  will 
return  to  their  rooms  better  prepared  to  estimate  and  appreci- 
ate the  care  and  aifection  which  has  so  pleasantly  consulted 
their  taste  and  comfort  in  arranging  the  apartment  which  is 
set  aside  for  them. 

It  is  painful  to  glance  into  rooms  in  daily  use,  and  see  no 
indication  that  a  moment's  thought  has  ever  been  bestowed 
upon  their  adornment,  or  to  fill  them  with  objects  that,  to 
the  children's  eyes,  will  unite  grace  and  beauty  with  useful- 
ness for  the  family's  every-day  life.  "  0,  this  will  answer  ! 
It's  good  enough /tts^ /or  oior  oivn  family."  But  look  into 
the  guest-chamber,  for  which  enough  has  been  expended  to 
compel  pinching  in  all  that  belongs  to  home  and  family  com- 
forts, and  all  for  the  ostentatious  disj)lay  of  hospitality ! 
When  you  see  such  incongruities  and  contrasts  between  the 
furnishing  of  the  family  apartments  and  the  "  spare  room," 
you  wiU  find  the  same  rule  runs  through  everything  con- 
nected with  the  family.  For  every-day  use  the  commonest 
kind  of  delf,  with  odd  bits  of  broken  or  defaced  china,  mis- 
mated  cups  and  saucers,  of  every  variety  of  color,  and  the 
food  carelessly  prepared,  and  of  the  poorest  and  cheapest 
quality,  showing  the  same  unwise  disregard  for  family  com- 


THE  GUEST-CHAMBER.  253 

fort.  But  let  a  visitor  appear,  and  the  table  is  dazzling 
with  silver  and  cut-glass,  and  loaded  with  dainties  over 
which  the  utmost  skill  in  cooking  has  been  expended.  This 
is  all  wrong.  Home  should  be  first,  company  of  second- 
ary importance.  Let  your  family  always  have  the  best 
you  can  reasonably  aiford ;  then  cordially  welcome  your 
friends  to  share  the  good  and  pleasant  things  with  you.  It 
is  not  easy  to  teach  children  to  love  home,  and  prefer  its 
society  to  all  others,  if  they  see  that  all  the  good  and  pleas- 
ant and  beautiful  things  you  possess  are  only  to  be  used 
when  you  have  visitors.  You  have  no  right  to  hope  that 
your  children  will  have  good  manners  or  be  refined,  if  they 
see  only  the  coarsest  of  everything  when  alone  with  you,  but 
are  called  upon,  with  company,  to  put  on  company  manners. 
Love  of  home,  refinement,  and  good  manners  are  blessings 
that  will  rust  out  and  be  destroyed,  if  not  brightened  by 
constant  daily  use. 

But  we  have  wandered  out  of  the  guest-chamber,  and  will 
now  retiirn.  Because  we  urge  that  the  family  apartments 
should  have  the  first  claim,  we  would  not  be  understood  that 
no  thought  should  be  given  to  the  room  your  friends  will 
occupy ;  we  only  claim  that  it  should  not  be  paramount  to 
all  others.  Select  the  furniture  with  such  care  and  taste  as 
your  means  will  allow.  It  is  not  necessary  that  one  should 
be  rich  to  do  this  in  the  most  perfect  manner.  Be  sure  that 
the  bed  is  comfortably  made,  and  at  all  times  scrupulously 
clean.  If  used  only  for  one  night  by  one  person,  all  the  linen 
should  be  changed  for  every  new-comer.  A  white  spread, 
even  if  not  of  the  best  and  heaviest,  is  always  an  improve- 
ment for  any  bed.  Have  a  spare  blanket  neatly  folded  and 
laid  across  the  foot  of  the  bed,  unless  you  have  a  closet  in  the 
room ;  then  it  is  a  protection  from  dust  to  put  it  there.  A 
low  easy-chair  or  rocker  is  always  desirable,  for  a  lady  friend 
may  bring  a  young  infant  with  her ;  then,  if  in  accordance 


254      MOTHERLY  TALKS    WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

with  your  ability,  furnish  easy-chairs  or  a  lounge,  but  no 
bedchamber  should  be  crowded  with  furniture. 

A  table  with  a  drawer,  or  small  neat  writing-desk,  with  an 
inkstand,  a  few  pens,  paper,  and  envelopes,  are  desirable,  as 
friends  often  come  unexpectedly,  and  neglect  to  bring  the 
needed  articles.  To  find  such  conveniences  ready  at  hand 
will  be  taken  as  a  kindly  attention,  which  is  among  the  little 
things  that  make  a  guest-chamber  homelike. 

A  brush  and  comb,  a  cushion  and  pins,  should  be  kept  on 
every  bureau,  and  the  "  spare  room  "  is  no  exception  to  this 
rule.  In  this  room  one  or  two  bureau-drawers  should  be  left 
open  for  the  use  of  guests.  The  comb  and  brush,  like  those 
in  other  chambers,  should  be  washed  every  week  if  used,  or 
after  every  new  occupant.  A  few  drops  of  ammonia,  put  into 
a  little  soap  and  water,  will  cleanse  a  brush  easily ;  rinse  well 
in  clear  water,  and  stand  it  up  to  dry.  For  the  wash-stand, 
good  soap,  plenty  of  towels,  and  a  nail-brush  should  be  pro- 
vided. The  water-pitcher  must  be  kept  filled ;  a  water- 
bottle,  with  a  glass  turned  over  it,  or  a  decanter  with  a 
stopper,  is  better  for  drinking  water  than  a  pitcher,  as  water 
left  exposed  to  the  air  in  a  sleeping-room  soon  becomes  im- 
pure and  unwholesome.  A  slop  pail  or  jar  is  needed  by  the 
side  of  the  wash-stand,  unless  the  wash-basins  are  set  to  be 
filled  from  the  pipes,  and  emptied  by  the  waste-pipe.  A 
match-box,  filled,  is  always  an  important  article  in  every  room, 
and  a  little  basket  or  cornucopia  is  needed  to  hang  by  the  glass, 
into  which  the  hair  from  the  comb  and  burnt  matches  may  be 
put.  This  should  be  emptied  when  the  slops  are  taken  away  ; 
but  hair  must  never  be  thrown  in  the  sink,  as  it  clogs  the 
pipes  ;  always  burn  it. 

Of  course,  when  there  is  no  necessity  for  close  economy, 
there  are  a  thousand  elegances  with  which  it  is  perfectly 
proper  to  beautify,  not  only  the  family  rooms,  but  the  guest- 
chamber  ;  but  the  things  here  specified  are  convenient  and 


THE  CARE  OF   INFANTS.  255 

some  really  necessary  for  all  sleeping-rooms,  and  can  be  pro- 
cured or  made  by  home  ingenuity.  Beautify  and  enrich  the 
guest-room  as  lavishly  as  good  taste  and  your  ability  will 
allow,  only  let  the  family  chamber  be  not  neglected  for  that 
purpose. 


LXII. 

THE  CARE  OF  INFANTS. 

"  A  EE  our  little  ones  so  related  to  household  cares,  that 
iV  Mrs.  Beecher  will  give  young  mothers,  now  and 
then,  a  few  words  of  instruction  on  the  management  of  in- 
fants 1  I  am  a  young  mother  as  weU  as  young  housel^eeper, 
and  although  not  very  competent,  I,  and  probalily  many 
others,  could  easier  work  our  way  unaided  to  a  respectable 
standing  in  all  that  pertains  to  the  manual  labor  of  the 
household,  than  risk  mistakes  in  the  care  and  training  of 
our  babies.  I  think  the  little  ones  very  necessary  to  the 
formation  of  a  true  household,  and  am  ready  to  accept  any 
care  and  annoyance,  if  I  may  oidy  be  certain  tliat  I  am  not 
giving  my  strength  for  naught,  but  so  that  in  these  early 
days  I  may  be  enabled  to  ward  off  iUness,  and  keep  my  baby 
healthy  and  vigorous.  It  is  usually  happy  and  quiet ;  but 
there  are  times  when  mind  and  body  are  taxed  to  the  utmost 
limit  of  my  endurance.  It  often  has  spells  of  crying,  when 
no  skill  which  I  possess  can  soothe  the  disturbance,  what- 
ever may  be  the  cause,  or  lull  the  little  one  to  sleep.  In  no 
way,  either  by  medical  advice  or  the  exercise  of  my  own 
judgment,  can  I  discover  the  cause,  or  find  any  indication 
which  would  show  the  child  to  be  unhealthy." 

We   most   certainly  consider  the   little   ones  very  pecu- 


256      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

liarly  a  part  of  "  The  Household "  department,  and  will 
cheerfully  give  any  assistance  to  young  mothers  that  is  with- 
in our  power.  We  have  before  this  been  called  upon  to 
answer  similar  questions,  and  see  no  reason  to  change  the 
answers  we  have  felt  to  be  correct. 

Young  mothers  are  frequently  told,  we  think  very  un- 
wisely, "You  have  no  cause  for  anxiety.  Most  infants 
either  have  their  crying  spells  until  they  are  tliree  months 
old,  or  are  very  quiet  and  serene  up  to  that  period,  and  then 
change  and  cry,  and  are  restless  most  of  the  time  till  some 
months  later."  Believing  this,  the  young  mother  tries  to 
possess  her  soul  in  patience,  and  struggles  on,  waiting  for  the 
good  time  coming.  But  we  think  there  is  always  some  defi- 
nite cause  for  a  trouble  which  robs  the  mother  for  months 
of  a  large  portion  of  the  pleasure  her  infant  should  bring  her, 
and  makes  the  new  world  into  which  the  httle  pilgrim  has 
just  entered  so  truly  "  a  vale  of  tears."  The  cause  once 
ascertained,  there  must  be  some  remedy  found,  through  the 
large  experience  of  so  many  mothers  who  have  been  harassed 
and  perplexed  by  similar  trials. 

Often  kind  friends  manifest  their  affection  and  interest 
injudiciously  through  their  anxiety  to  see  the  new-comer, 
when  both  mother  and  child  would  be  much  safer  for  a  feAv 
days  of  perfect,  uninterrupted  quiet.  In  the  early  days  when 
an  infant  should  be  forming  the  habit  of  long  naps,  and  at 
regular  times,  and  when  the  mother  should  be  kept  from  any 
excitement,  these  friendly  calls  begin,  and  each  caller  has 
great  curiosity  _;ms^  to  look  at  the  new  baby,  ovjust  to  wake 
it  one  moment  to  see  whose  eyes  it  has  borrowed.  This 
incense  offered  to  maternal  pride  is  too  mighty,  and  the 
mother's  judgment  bows  down  before  it.  If  she  allows  this 
foolish  innovation  once,  she  must  twice,  and  soon  a  restless 
habit  is  formed,  and  short  naps  and  long  cries  may  be  ex- 
pected.    It  takes  but  two  or  three  such  friendly  visits  in 


THE  CARE  OF   INFANTS.  257 

tlie  course  of  one  day,  to  excite  the  child  so  that  sleep  be- 
comes impossible ;  and  then,  although  it  is  not  needing  food, 
when  all  other  means  fail  to  quiet  it,  what  more  natural  than 
to  put  it  to  the  breast  1  But  broken  rest  and  nursing  too 
frequently  will  assuredly  cause  pain,  and  crying  will,  of 
course,  be  the  result.  In  such  cases,  no  remedy  may  be 
hoped  for  until  those  to  whom  the  child  is  committed,  and 
who  alone  should  be  responsible  for  forming  its  habits,  have 
learned  that  sound  judgment  and  good  common-sense  must 
be  their  guides  in  the  care  of  their  helpless  little  ones,  and 
not  maternal  pride. 

But,  on  the  other  hand,  take  a  child  who  from  its  birth  is 
trained  in  the  most  sensible  manner,  ŌĆö  washed,  dressed,  and 
fed  at  fixed  hours,  and  laid,  -ndthout  rocking,  to  sleep  in  the 
crib,  where  no  foolish  friend,  indulgent  aunt,  or  grand- 
mother is  permitted  to  disturb  or  see  it  until  it  wakes  nat- 
urally and  is  ready  for  the  next  meal.  All  through  the  day 
it  sleeps,  or  serenely  watches  the  dancing  shadows  on  the 
wall,  or  the  bright  sun  through  the  curtains ;  and  but  for  the 
little  cooing,  rippling  sounds  that  occasionally  give  token  of 
its  presence,  one  hardly  realizes  that  there  is  a  babe  in  the 
house.  But  at  night  the  little  one  becomes  restless  and  be- 
gins to  cry.  Every  means  for  quieting  it  are  resorted  to.  It 
is  patted,  trotted,  rocked,  and  sung  to,  but  aU  is  of  no  avail. 
What  can  be  the  matter  1 

Let  us  take  this  uneasy  little  mortal.  Ah !  we  see.  In 
dressing  it  in  the  morning  you  pinned  the  little  waists  as 
tightly  as  you  could  draw  them,  so  that  the  body  is  as  round 
and  unyielding  as  a  marble  piUar.  The  morning  bath  and 
change  of  clothes  brought  some  relief  from  the  night's  fet- 
ters ;  and  for  the  first  part  of  the  day,  or,  if  uncommonly 
strong  and  healthy,  until  night,  the  child  may  be  quiet  and 
endure  ;  but  by  night,  release  from  so  many  hours'  bondage 
is  absolutely  needed.     How  would  you  like  to  have  your 

Q 


258      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

clothes  thus  bound  about  you  1  No  room  for  free  breathing, 
no  elasticity  of  body  !  What  chance  for  healthy  digestion  1 
After  many  hours,  during  the  day,  of  perfect  inactivity,  what 
wonder  if  by  night  the  poor  baby  feels  this  compression  in- 
supportable !  Its  little  limbs  must  ache,  and  the  whole  body 
become  stiff  and  numb.  But  instead  of  relief,  when  the 
child  is  disrobed  and  night-clothes  substituted,  it  is  only  to 
tighten  the  bands,  and  leave  it  to  pass  the  long  hours  of 
darkness  as  much  like  a  mummy  as  before. 

When  Ave  see  a  child  thus  bound,  we  think  it  would 
afford  us  pleasure  to  act  as  dressing-maid  to  the  mother  long 
enough  to  teach  her  what  torture  she  is  thoughtlessly  inflict- 
ing on  her  helpless  babe.  It  has  no  way  of  attracting  your 
attention  and  begging  for  relief  but  through  tears.  If  the 
mother  was  subjected  to  the  same  distress  for  once,  she  would 
ever  after  understand  why  her  baby  lifts  up  its  voice  like  a 
trumpet,  to  tell  her  of  her  sins. 

Whenever  an  infant  begins  to  cry,  without  any  apparent 
cause,  by  day  or  by  night,  let  your  first  act  be  to  examine  its 
clothing  ;  loosen  it,  remove  the  pins,  or  untie  the  strings, 
and  see  if  the  lungs  have  free  space  to  expand,  and  the  body 
a  chance  to  move  every  limb  and  muscle.  Rub  the  body 
gently  with  your  warm  hand,  particularly  the  back,  lungs, 
and  bowels,  to  promote  the  circulation  which  the  barbarous 
swaddling-bands  have  all  day  impeded.  Try  this  remedy, 
particularly  at  night,  and,  unless  you  again  ''put  on  the 
screws,"  in  most  cases'  your  baby  will  fall  into  a  peaceful 
slumber,  and  you  may  hope  for  unbroken  rest. 

But  here  is  another  whose  garments,  are  all  sensibly  ad- 
justed, yet  its  piteous  cries  are  enough  to  make  the  heart 
ache.  What  is  the  matter  1  Touch  the  little  blue  hands,  and 
you  will  find  them  like  ice.  Take  the  child  in  your  lap ; 
draw  your  chair  to  the  fire ;  heat  a  blanket  and  wrap  about 
it ;  lay  it  on  the  stomach,  across  your  lap,  holding  the  cold 


THE  CARE   OF   INFANTS.  259 

hands  in  one  of  yours ;  shake  out  the  foolishly  long  robes, 
till,  hidden  somewhere  in  this  mass  of  flannel  and  embroid- 
ery, you  find  the  numb  little  toes,  and  hold  them  toward  the 
lire  till  warm.  See  how  it  stretches  its  feet  to  the  fire,  and 
puts  the  pretty  face  close  up  to  your  warm  hands.  Many  a 
child  who  has  cried  for  hours,  taxing  all  the  mother's  strength 
and  skill,  and  filling  her  heart  with  alarm,  will,  under  this 
simple  treatment,  in  a  few  minutes  be  fast  asleep.  Only 
turning  a  child  over  in  the  crib  ŌĆö  anything  to  change  its 
position  when  you  find  that  it  begins  to  cry  or  becomes  rest- 
less before  its  nap  is  finished  ŌĆö  will  sometimes  soothe  it  to 
quiet  slumber,  give  it  the  benefit  of  a  long  sleep,  and  you 
sufficient  time  to  accomplish  many  things  which  must  have 
been  laid  aside  had  baby  waked  too  soon. 

Endeavor  to  imagine  yourself  in  an  infant's  place  when  it 
manifests  symptoms  you  do  not  well  understand.  You  wrap 
its  hands  and  feet  so  closely,  when  you  lay  it  down  to  sleep, 
that  it  cannot  stir.  Could  you  remain  two  hours  thus  fet- 
tered without  becoming  cramped  and  full  of  pain  1  Loosen 
the  wrappings ;  shake  up  the  pillow  and  turn  it  over  occa- 
sionall}^  that  the  little  head  may  rest  on  a  cool  spot  (and,  by 
the  way,  a  good  hair  pillow,  not  too  full,  and  well  beaten 
every  day,  that  it  may  not  become  lumpy,  is  far  more  health- 
ful for  any  child  than  feathers).  If  awake,  change  its  posi- 
tion ;  or  if  it  has  lain  long,  take  it  up,  toss  it  gently,  and 
play  with  it  awhile  to  give  it  a  pleasant  variety,  and  cause 
the  blood  to  circulate  freely  through  the  whole  body. 

If  these  simple  methods  do  not  pacify  a  crying  child,  it  is 
very  probable  that  some  of  the  above-mentioned  causes  have 
produced  colic ;  but  do  not  give  the  simplest  medicine  till 
you  have  tried  what  virtue  there  is  in  an  enema  of  tepid 
water.  Unless  the  crying  indicates  the  beginning  of  some 
acute  disease,  we  have  invariably  found  the  effects  almost 
magical,  and  in  no  case  will  it  be  hurtful. 


2 GO      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

ISTever  nurse  your  child  when  you  are  chilled,  fatigued,  or 
terrified.  The  child,  however  hungry,  must  Avait,  or  be 
otherwise  fed,  until  your  own  system  becomes  quiet.  It 
must  be  a  very  strong  child  who  will  not  suffer  from  the 
nourishment  the  mother  offers  while  under  such  disturbance. 
If  your  excitement  proceeds  from  fear,  go  to  your  husband 
or  some  friend  who  has  the  power  to  soothe  or  talk  you 
into  quietude,  before  you  see  your  child.  If  fatigued,  sit 
down  and  rest ;  if  overheated,  wash  your  face  and  hands  in 
cool  water,  keeping  out  of  any  current  of  air,  and  become 
thorouglily  cool  before  you  nurse  your  baby. 

If,  unfortunately,,  you  have  allowed  yourself  to  be  over- 
come by  anger,  keep  far  away  from  the  little  one,  till  you 
have  asked  God  to  still  the  tempest,  and  feel  that  by  his 
grace  you  are  at  peace.  If  in  such  an  unhappy  state  you 
dare  to  perform  a  mother's  sweetest  duty,  your  child  will 
bring  you  to  repentance  before  many  hours  elapse. 

In  early  youth  we  were  once  compelled  to  watch  by  a 
child  in  convulsions.  This  was  among  our  first  painful  ex- 
periences, and  when  we  were  absent  from  home.  To  our 
dying  day  we  shall  never  forget  the  mother's  dumb  anguish 
when  told  that  the  child  must  die.  We  afterward  learned 
that  she  had  been  furiously  angry  with  her  husband.  The 
angry  voices  frightened  the  child,  and  to  still  its  crying,  even 
in  the  fierce  heat  of  her  passion,  she  put  the  babe  to  her 
breast.  The  physician  knew  of  her  ungovernable  temper, 
and,  boarding  with  her,  had  been  the  witness  of  the  morn- 
ing's tornado.  Over  the  suffering  little  creature,  he  sternly 
told  her  that  her  temper  had  killed  her  child.  We  never 
saw  her  bvit  once  after  that  sad  trial,  but  the  marks  of  the 
penalty  wliich  followed  so  quickly  upon  her  sin  were  still 
stamped  upon  her  face. 

Mothers  do  not  enough  understand  or  believe  these  facts, 
because  they  are  not  accustomed  to  trace  the  effect  to  the 


PERSONAL   NEATNESS.  2G1 

cause  ;  but  a  physician  Avho  looks  carefully  into  the  cases 
which  come  under  his  care  will  assure  you  that  this  is  no 
fiction.  A  mother  at  all  times  is  called  upon  to  guard  well 
her  own  actions,  and  to  practice  much  self-denial  for  the  sake 
of  her  offspring,  but  never  more  than  when  her  child  draws 
its  nourishment  from  her  breast ;  and  never  are  judgment  and 
care  in  the  clothing,  in  the  fashioning  and  adjusting  of  it, 
more  important  than  while  the  babe  is  incapable  of  making 
known  its  wants  or  discomforts  except  by  crying. 


LXIII. 

PERSONAL  NEATNESS. 

a "^  HOSE  who  have  the  oversight  of  household  affairs,  and 
_  perhaps  are  also  compelled  to  perform  much  of  the 
manual  labor  themselves,  cannot  be  expected  to  keep  their 
garments  at  all  times  spotlessly  clean,  still  less  can  they 
preserve  their  hands  soft  and  delicate  ;  yet  there  is  far  too 
much  inexcusable  carelessness  about  personal  appearance, 
among  tliose  who  are  called  upon  to  be  always  active  and 
industrious,  as  well  as  among  tliose  who  have  fewer  respon- 
sibilities. 

"  Well,  I,  for  one,  don't  see  how  a  farmer's  or  mechanic's 
wife  can  help  it ;  she  is  obliged  to  rise  early  to  prepare  the 
breakfast,  or  see  that  it  is  being  properly  prepared  ;  then 
the  milk  requires  early  attention,  or  perhaps  butter  and 
cheese  are  to  be  made  :  one  duty  follows  another  in  such 
quick  succession,  that  from  the  time  the  housewife  rises  in 
the  morning  until  after  dinner,  at  least,  she  is  compelled  to 
work  rapidly  if  she  would  be  through  in  proper  season. 
What  time  has  she  to  think  about  her  own  personal  appear- 


2G2      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

ance  1  A  fine  housewife  that  must  be,  who  would  feel 
obliged  to  stop  in  the  midst  of  some  important  work  to  see 
if  her  hair  was  in  company  order,  or  that  no  spot  of  any  kind 
had  soiled  her  dress  or  apron.  It  is  all  very  well  for  ladies 
to  be  thus  particular,  but  laboring  people  have  no  spare 
moments  for  any  such  ill-timed  neatness." 

We  do  not  expect  you  to  be  always  "  in  company  order," 
as  you  understand  that  term  :  that  would  be  exceedingly  in- 
consistent ;  yet  Ave  could  never  understand  why  one's  own 
family  ŌĆö  those  whom  we  love,  and  with  whom  we  hope  to 
spend  our  days  ŌĆö  should  not  have  as  strong  claims  upon  our 
thoughts,  time,  and  personal  appearance  as  those  whom  we 
seldom  see ;  and  we  do  know  that  one  can  work,  and  work 
hard,  and  yet  be  at  all  times  so  tidy  that  she  need  not  be 
mortified  to  be  caught  hy  company.  Let  us  give  you  a  few 
hints  which  good  common-sense  can  easily  enlarge. 

When  retiring  at  night  give  the  hair  a  thorough  brushing, 
not  only  for  your  own  comfort  and  to  promote  a  healthy 
condition  of  the  hair,  and  remove  all  dust  that  through  the 
day  will  naturally  settle  in  it,  but  also  to  secure  greater  ex- 
pedition in  dressing  in  the  morning ;  this  done,  fold  it  up 
loosely,  draw  a  net  or  very  thin  cap  over  to  prevent  tangling  : 
with  tliis  precaution  it  should  not  take  long  when  you  rise 
to  smooth  and  arrange  it  neatly,  though,  unfortunately, 
smooth  and  neatly  arranged  hair  is  no  longer  fashionable ; 
but  it  is  hoped  that  while  at  work,  even  those  who  bow 
down  most  subserviently  to  the  fickle  goddess,  Fashion,  so 
arrange  that  no  loose  hairs  are  flying. 

It  is  convenient  to  have  morning-wrappers  made  with  a 
narrow  ruffle  round  the  neck  of  the  same  material  as  the 
dress  ;  or,  if  yours  are  not  so  made,  before  retiring  baste  or  pin 
in  a  simple  coUar  or  ruffle,  that  no  needless  time  may  be  spent 
in  dressing.  If  you  are  not  accustomed  to  a  full  bath  every 
morning,  a  thorough  bath  at  night  is  very  desirable,  even  if 


PERSONAL  NEATNESS.  263 

only  a  sponge  bath  can  be  obtained,  and  then  a  copious  wash- 
ing before  dressing  will  occupy  but  a  few  moments.  The  teeth 
should  be  well  brushed,  and  the  mouth  and  throat  faithfully 
rinsed  in  cold  water  morning  and  night  and  after  each  meal ; 
no  hurry  of  work  should  be  an  excuse  for  neglecting  this  duty, 
if  not  for  neatness  and  comfort,  for  health's  sake.  The  hair 
in  order,  face  and  hands  washed,  and  teeth  brushed,  it  will 
then  require  but  a  few  minutes'  time  longer  to  be  ready  to 
leave  your  chamber  and  go  to  your  early  morning  labors  in 
the  neatest  working  order. 

A  large  apron  made  from  heavy  brown  or  white  "  butchers' 
linen"  is  much  neater  and  more  serviceable  than  calico  or 
gingham  ;  it  does  not  wrinkle  so  easily,  and  if  wet  will  not 
become  limp  and  useless  so  soon.  The  sleeve  of  a  morning- 
dress  should  be  large  enough  at  the  bottom  to  be  easily  folded 
back  above  the  elbow  and  pinned  up ;  or,  if  preferred,  a 
deep  cuff  is  very  convenient,  as  during  work  it  can  be  un- 
buttoned and  turned  back  in  the  same  way.  Put  a  button 
and  a  loop  of  tape  or  strong  cord  about  a  quarter  of  a  yard 
apart,  on  four  seams  of  the  skirt  at  least,  ŌĆö  before,  behind, 
and  on  each  side,  ŌĆö  so  that  you  can  loop  up  the  dress  evenly 
instead  of  pinning  it  awkwardly  back  ;  it  is  much  neater  and 
in  the  end  will  save  time,  and  certainly  it  keeps  the  dress  from 
being  soiled  at  the  bottom,  and  thus  saves  much  washing. 

Now  go  to  work  with  bare  arms,  a  large,  long  apron,  and 
dress  looped  up,  too  short  to  be  drabbled  ;  and  it  is  very  sel- 
dom, except  in  cases  of  uncommon  accident,  that  one's  work- 
ing attire  may  not  be  kept  in  suitable  condition  to  meet  any 
stranger  or  friend  who  may  chance  to  call  during  the  busy 
hours  of  the  day.  With  smooth  hair  and  a  clean  dress,  you 
may  consider  yourself  perfectly  presentable  ;  all  preparation 
needed  should  not  occupy  five  minutes,  and  no  caller  should 
be  kept  waiting  longer.  Unpin  the  sleeves,  unbutton  the 
dress  where  looped  up,  take  off  the  apron,  wash  hands  and 


2G4      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

face,  and  smooth  the  hair  if  need  be,  ŌĆö  that  is  all.  To  keep 
a  visitor  waiting  is  not  in  good  taste  ;  we  tliink  it  inexcus- 
able, unless  compelled  by  some  unusual  hindrance.  In  that 
case,  send  in  your  reasons  or  some  apology  for  delay,  when 
the  caller  will  either  wait  patiently,  knowing  that  you  could 
not  help  it,  or,  if  in  haste,  return  regrets  and  leave.  This  is 
far  more  kind  and  courteous  than  to  keep  any .  one  waiting 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  in  haste  perhaps,  but  not  daring  to 
leave,  because  thinking  each  moment  you  will  enter. 

If,  while  preserving,  or  in  any  other  way,  you  stain  your 
hands,  a  few  drops  of  muriatic  acid  will  remove  the  stain  at 
once.  It  is  very  convenient  to  have  a  bottle  of  this  liquid 
always  in  the  house,  for  a  black,  ugly  stain  on  the  hand  is  a 
very  disagreeable  sight ;  but  the  bottle  should  be  put  in 
a  secure  place,  where  children  or  careless  servants  cannot 
meddle  with  it.  It  is  poisonous,  but  perfectly  safe  if  kept 
securely  and  used  as  directed.  Wet  the  spot  with  the  acid, 
rub  quickly  over  the  stain,  and  immediately  wash  in  clear 
water,  else  it  will  burn  and  make  your  hands  uncomfortably 
rough.  After  washing  off  the  acid,  give  your  hands  a  good 
washing  in  hot  soapsuds,  using  a  nail  or  finger  brush  to  clean 
all  round  the  nails,  which  in  preserving  or  paring  fruit  are 
usually  badly  discolored.  Those  brushes  which  have  a  nail- 
cleaner  at  the  top  of  the  handle  are  the  best.  No  one  should 
be  without  a  finger-brush,  and  to  none  is  it  more  indispen- 
sable than  to  those  who  have  the  most  of  the  family  work  to 
do.  "Wet  the  brush  and  rub  soap  on  it ;  then  brush  the 
nails  and  inside  of  the  hands  with  it  before  you  finish  wash- 
ing them.  Nothing  more  effectually  removes  the  stains  and 
dirt,  which  will  of  course  settle  on  the  inside  of  the  hands 
when  handling  pots  and  kettles  or  working  over  the  stove ; 
and  even  if  your  hands  are  roughened  by  no  such  labor,  the 
nail-brush  is  of  great  service. 

Often  when  in  haste,  the  dress  or  apron  is  caught  against  a 


PERSONAL   NEATNESS.  265 

liook  or  nail,  and  a  sad  rent  is  made.  Whatever  your  hurry, 
do  not  go  a  moment  with  this  accident  unrepaired.  If  it 
happens  while  some  article  is  over  the  fire  which  may  not 
be  left  a  moment  without  danger  or  injury,  you  can  at  least 
pin  up  the  unsightly  hole.  Always  carry  a  small  pincush- 
ion, tilled  with  pins,  in  your  pocket ;  if  you  do  not  need  one 
yourself,  somebody  else  may  be  in  trouble  for  want  of  only  a 
pin  ;  and  make  it  a  point,  as  far  as  possible,  to  keep  a  needle 
ready  threaded  near  by,  so  that  at  a  moment's  warning  you 
can  temporarily  run  up  any  rent  made  while  at  Avork,  which, 
if  in  your  poAver,  is  far  better  than  pinning  it  up.  A  big 
grease  spot  or  prominent  rent  on  a  Avoman's  dress  is  a  poor 
recomrnendation,  and  we  confess  we  never  see  them  without 
forming  an  unfavorable  opinion,  if  a  stranger,  or  experien- 
cing a  feeling  of  mortification  and  annoyance,  if  a  friend. 

A  looking-glass,  comb,  and  brush  are  out  of  place  in  the 
kitchen,  but  a  small  glass  in  a  back  hall  or  entry  close  by, 
with  a  shelf  beneath  for  the  comb  and  brush,  are  quite 
necessary  for  your  servants,  and  it  is  a  great  convenience  to 
have  another  near  by  for  your  own  use,  so  that  if  hastily  sum- 
moned from  the  kitchen,  you  can  smooth  your  hair,  and  by 
the  glass  assure  j'ourself  that  there  is  nothing  untidy  about 
you. 

There  is  one  kind  of  personal  neglect  that  we  often  see, 
with  great  surprise,  and  quite  frequently  among  a  class  of 
people  Avho  have  little  to  do  with  hard  work,  and  no  excuse 
for  the  carelessness  from  lack  of  time.  We  have  seen,  just 
above  point-lace  and  diamonds,  ears  that  have  long  been  un- 
acquainted with  a  plentiful  supply  of  soap  and  Avater.  A 
pretty  ear  is  very  attractive  to  us.  We  always  notice  par- 
ticularly the  eye  and  ear  in  CA'ery  one  Ave  meet ;  and  if  we 
see  brown,  dirty-looking  streaks  behind  the  ear,  or  the  rim 
and  inside  duly,  with  unseemly  accumulations  of  ear-wax 
remaining  uncared  for,  ŌĆö  if  it  is  on  a  girl  Avho  applies  for  a 
12 


266      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

place,  we  would  not  receive  her ;  if  on  a  "  lady,"  we  find  ii. 
hard  to  feel  much  respect  for  her.  Unless  in  a  desert,  un- 
hlessed  by  water,  there  is  no  manner  of  excuse  to  be  found 
for  such  neglect. 

These  hints  may  seem  quite  insignificant,  but  we  cannot 
think  them  so.  Aside  from  the  comfort  and  respectability 
of  scrupulous  neatness  in  your  own  habits,  you  are,  by  your 
example  as  you  should  be  by  your  precepts,  giving  ideas  of 
neatness  and  order  to  your  children  and  servants.  But  if 
they  see  you  come  down  in  the  morning  with  your  hair  in 
disorder,  your  garments  dirty  or  torn,  shoes  or  boots  slipshod 
or  imbuttoned,  you  may  be  sure  your  example  will  be  very 
readily  imitated,  and  probably  greatly  exaggerated.  If  a  girl 
is  uncleanly  in  her  person,  there  is  every  reason  to  presume 
she  will  be  slatternly  about  her  work,  and  particularly  so 
about  her  cooking.  Therefore,  if  only  for  selfish  reasons,  it 
is  most  desirable  that  young  housekeepers  should  have  a 
high  standard  for  personal  cleanliness,  and  live  in  full 
accordance  with  it. 


LXIV. 

AEE  HOUSE-PLANTS  INJURIOUS  TO  THE  HEALTH  ? 

MES.  BEECHEE  :  My  wife  and  I  are  both  attentive 
readers  of  the  '  Christian  Union,'  and  we  venture 
to  ask  for  a  few  words  of  information  upon  the  subject  of 
house -plants.  We  are  passionately  fond  of  flowers,  but 
have  frequently  seen  it  stated  that  plants,  especially  flower- 
ing plants,  vitiate  the  air,  rendering  it  unfit  for  breathing 
purposes.  Is  that  really  true  1  We  like  plants  in  our  sleep- 
ing-rooms, but  of  course  would  give  them  up  if  convinced 
that  they  were  injurious  to  the  health.     We  have  heliotropes, 


ARE   HOUSE-PLANTS   INJURIOUS  TO  THE  HEALTH  <     267 

roses,  geraniums,  lilies,  fuchsias,  and  a  number  of  other 
plants.  Do  these  render  the  atmosphere  noxious  to  life  and 
health  1  As  plants  liberate  oxygen  and  absorb  carbonic  gas, 
we  think  they  ought  to  be  wholesome.  Or  is  it  the  blossom 
that  does  the  mischief?  Is  a  sweet-smelling  flower  poisonous  1 
Will  you  please  set  us  right  upon  this  matter,  and  oblige 
"Two  Young  Housekeepers." 

We  copy  this  letter  entire,  hoping  by  so  doing  to  bring 
this  subject  to  the  attention  of  those  whose  opinion  and  judg- 
ment are  of  greater  worth  than  our  own.  There  are  many 
conflicting  opinions  concerning  the  efl"ect  which  plants 
and  vines,  growing  in  the  house,  and  filling  it  by  day 
and  by  night  with  their  delightful  atmosphere,  have  upon 
the  health  of  their  worshipers.  If  the  wise  and  scientific 
among  our  readers  will  give  this  matter  attentive  and  sober 
thought,  we  hope  to  find  in  the  multitude  of  counselors  the 
wisdom  which  is  so  much  needed. 

It  is  not  very  many  years  since  physicians  lifted  up  their 
voices  against  this  pleasant  adornment  of  our  homes,  by 
which  some  portion  of  the  joyous  summer  may  be  wrested 
from  the  grasp  of  the  frost  king,  and  which  enables  us 
while  indoors,  to  forget  that  fingers  and  toes  are  in  danger 
the  moment  we  venture  outside  of  the  carefully  tended  par- 
lor garden. 

But  our  physicians  change  their  opinions  like  other  mor- 
tals, and  at  the  present  time  some  affirm  that  jDlants  and 
vines  in  the  house,  or  even  in  the  sleeping-apartments,  are 
health-giving.  They  tell  us  that  the  carbonic  gas  which  is 
being  constantly  set  free  from  our  lungs,  and  which  is  detri- 
mental, is  at  once  absorbed  by  our  flowers,  while  these  at 
the  same  time  give  to  us,  in  exchange,  the  oxygen  which,  in 
its  proper  place  and  quantity,  is  so  necessary  to  health  and 
life. 


268  MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Other  physicians  assume  that  a  growing  plant  is  not. 
noxious  or  in  any  way  detrimental,  but  that  as  soon  as  it  be- 
gins to  blossom  it  should  be  at  once  removed  from  a  bedcham- 
ber, and  if  allowed  to  remain  in  the  house  at  all,  should  be 
placed,  while  in  bloom,  as  far  as  possible  from  the  family 
apartments. 

Again,  it  is  stated  ŌĆö  and  all  these  conflicting  opinions,  we 
are  told,  come  to  us  from  the  "  best  and  most  reliable  author- 
ity " ŌĆö  that  no  plant,  in  flower  or  not,  is  at  all  injurious  in 
any  part  of  the  house,  so  long  as  the  perfume  from  the 
blossom  is  not  powerful  and  not  at  all  offensive.  "  Who 
shall  decide  when  doctors  disagree  1 "  It  seems  to  us  very  im- 
portant that  our  learned,  scientific  men  ŌĆö  those  who  make  the 
eff'ects  of  the  various  gases  on  life  and  health  a  careful  study 
ŌĆö  should  give  this  question  a  thorough  investigation,  and 
when,  after  mature  research,  they  arrive,  as  they  suppose,  at. 
-  a  proper  conclusion,  shovQd  publish  their  opinion  in  simple 
terms,  such  as  all  can  comprehend.  We  should  rejoice  if 
the  conclusion  of  the  whole  matter  might  be  such  that  all 
could  lean  upon  it  with  no  fear  of  its  proving  by  and  by  a 
broken  reed ;  but  it  is  difiicult  to  keep  pace  with  changes  in 
the  results  of  scientific  investigations. 

One  year  certain  health-principles  are  established,  the  next 
they  are  set  aside  for  some  other  thing.  Some  articles  of 
food  are  prohibited  as  being  very  injurious,  but  in  a  few 
months  the  prohibition  is  cast  aside.  One  mode  of  diet  is 
declared  pernicious,  shortening  the  days,  and  making  the  few 
that  are  granted  undesirable.  Yet,  just  as  you  are  ready  to 
accept  this  theory,  you  are  told  of  those  who  have  lived  well- 
nigh  to  a  hundred  years,  or  perhaps  have  passed  that  period, 
always  healthful  and  cheerful,  yet  the  proscribed  diet  or 
article  of  food  has  been  habitually  indulged  in  by  them. 

For  our  own  part,  we  find  it  difficult  to  believe  that  the 
plants  cultivated  in  our  homes,  and  which  so  beautify  and 


ARE  HOUSE-PLANTS   INJURIOUS   TO   THE   HEALTH]     269 

enliven  our  winters,  can  be  injurious,  provided  the  rooms  in 
which  they  are  placed  are  kept  ivell  ventilated.  In  severely 
cold  weather  it  may  not  be  advisable  to  open  a  window  just 
over  the  plants,  but  when  windows  are  raised  to  air  adjacent 
rooms,  where  there  arc  no  flowers,  then  open  the  doors 
leading  from  them  to  the  parlor,  or  winter  garden,  that  the 
cold  breeze  from  witliout  may  sweep  through  the  whole  suite 
of  rooms  for  a  few  moments  until  the  air  is  entirely  changed. 
This,  even  in  the  coldest  winter,  will  do  the  plants  no  harm, 
nor  their  owners  either,  but,  on  the  contrary,  will  be  very 
beneficial,  making  both  more  healthy  and  vigorous.  Many  a 
lady  in  mid-winter  sits  by  the  fire  or  register,  yawning  and 
stupidly  sleepy,  with  a  dull  heavy  pain  over  the  eyes  fore- 
boding a  severe  headache,  who  could  throw  off  all  this 
torpidity,  defy  the  headache,  and  rise  up  refreshed  and 
vigorous,  if  she  would  simply  throw  open  her  doors  or 
windows  just  long  enough  to  drive  out  the  overcharged  air 
in  the  room,  and  by  so  doing  bring  in  exchange  a  pure 
and  invigorating  atmosphere  from  the  out-door  world  ;  and 
house-plants  will  be  equally  benefited  by  the  same  pre- 
scription. 

We  should  not  think  it  wise  to  have  plants  in  bloom  in 
the  sleeping-apartment,  unless  the  room  was  large,  and  the 
doors  so  arranged  as  to  favor  frequent  and  complete  change 
of  the  air. 

It  is  always  desirable,  just  before  retiring,  to  raise  the 
windows  for  a  few  moments,  not  only  in  the  parlors,  but  in 
the  sleeping-apartments,  particularly  if  they  have  been  used 
through  the  day  as  sewing-rooms.  It  will  insure  a  more 
refreshing  sleep,  and  also  a  brighter  awakening  in  the  morn- 
ing. House-plants  should  be  placed  on  a  stand  having 
castors,  so  that  they  can  be  easily  rolled  away  from  the 
windows  when  opened,  until  the  room  is  fully  aired ;  or, 
if  freezing  cold,  an  old  cloth  kept  for  the  purpose,  or  old 


270     MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

ne\vspapers,  should  be  thrown  over  the  plants  to  protect 
them  from  being  chilled. 

Cut  fioivers,  we  think,  should  not  be  left  in  a  bedroom 
overnight.  Just  before  retiring,  set  them  into  a  cool,  dark 
closet.  They  will  keep  fresh  much  longer  by  using  this 
precaution,  and  the  occupants  of  the  chamber  escape  any 
possible  injury  from  them.  The  water  in  which  cut  Howers 
are  put  ought  to  be  changed  every  night  and  morning,  or  it 
will  become  slimy  and  offensive,  as  well  as  injiuious. 

The  love  of  flowers  is  very  desirable  in  children,  and  should 
be  cultivated  from  their  earliest  years.  For  that  reason,  if  for 
no  other,  we  should  be  exceedingly  sorry  to  have  any  physi- 
cian whose  judgment  we  respected  forbid  the  cultivation  of 
house-plants,  particularly  in  the  nursery.  In  that  room  every 
bright  and  pretty  thing  should  be  gathered,  and  certainly 
nothing  more  quickly  attracts  the  attention  of  children  than 
a  choice  collection  of  flowers.  To  find  these  all  about  the 
house,  but  especially  in  the  nursery,  ŌĆö  their  own  peculiar 
domain,  ŌĆö  secures  a  taste  for  them  far  more  surely  than  to 
see  them  kept  exclusively  in  the  green-house,  or  in  rooms  set 
apart  for  their  culture  and  nothing  more.  Yet  no  mother 
will  risk  her  children's  health  in  the  least  degree,  and  if  her 
physician  assures  her  flowers  in  any  part  of  the  house  are 
harmful,  she  will  eject  them  at  once.  We  do  not  at  aU 
believe  they  are  injurious  to  the  health,  and  know  that 
they  greatly  increase  the  happiness  of  those  who  culti- 
vate them.  But  we  are  open  to  conviction,  and  if  any 
one  of  reliable  judgment  can  bring  sound  reasons  against 
keeping  these  house-gardens,  we  should  be  glad  to  know  of 
them. 


BAD  BUTTER.  271 

LXV. 

BAD  BUTTER. 

OF  all  the  needless  discomforts  common  to  boarding- 
houses  and  hotels,  "we  know  of  none  so  truly  inexcus- 
able, nor  which  subtracts  more  from  one's  enjoyment,  than 
the  use  of  bad  butter  for  cooking  purposes.  When  placed 
on  the  table  in  the  butter-dish,  if  found  to  be  imperfect  or 
quite  unpalatable  the  butter  can  easily  be  rejected.  To  eat 
good  bread  without  butter,  or,  if  the  bread  is  unsatisfactory, 
a  fine  mealy  potato  with  a  little  salt,  is  by  no  means  the 
greatest  hardship  that  you  may  be  subjected  to.  But  imagine 
yourself  seated  at  tlie  table,  and  a  large  dish  of  fresh  peas, 
green  and  tender,  brought  in.  You  have  been  hoping,  almost 
impatiently,  to  see  them  each  day,  and  now  what  a  feast  is 
yours,  in  anticipation.  You  can  hardly  wait  till  the  soup  is 
removed.  Visions  of  the  splendid  peas,  of  swe^  and  delicious 
flavor,  which  you  used  to  eat  at  your  father's  table,  are  float- 
ing before  you ;  and  tender  remembrances  of  the  dear  hand 
that  then  so  deftly  ministered  to  your  childish  appetite  are 
rising,  until  you  are  fast  verging  toward  sentimentality,  when 
your  turn  comes  to  be  helped.  These  peas  are  the  first  real 
country  peas,  picked  right  from  the  vines,  you  have  tasted 
since  your  home  was  established  in  the  city,  and  you  eagerly 
bid  farewell  to  sentiment,  and  address  yourself  to  the  full 
enjoyment  of  visible,  tangible  things.  How  you  would  like 
to  take  a  real  big  mouthful  in  a  child-like  manner  !  But 
you  control  your  eagerness,  and,  lady-like,  demurely  carry 
the  spoon  to  the  mouth.  0  horrors  !  Have  you  fortitude 
and  self-possession  sufficient  to  enable  you  to  swallow  that 
detestable  morsel  1  Politeness  and  unwillingness  to  exhibit 
your  disgust   to   others  at  the  table  control  you.     With  a 


272      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

shuddering  giili)  you  swallow,  but  hold  your  breath  till  you 
snatch  a  piece  of  bread  or  a  mouthful  of  water  to  send  after, 
with  some  faint  hojje  of  removing  the  vile  taste.  What  is  it 
that  so  disturbs  you  'I  Rancid  butter  !  Is  there  anything, 
any  taste  more  revolting  and  abominable  %  That  delicious 
dish  of  j)eas  spoiled,  irretrievably,  by  a  spoonful  of  the  nause- 
ous abomination,  manufactured  by  careless  dairy-women, 
and  bought  by  easily  gulled  grocers,  or  by  those  persons  pos- 
sessed of  india-rubber  consciences,  capable  of  stretching  to 
any  imaginable  length,  who  will  sell  this  abomination  for 
good  butter.  Or  it  may  be  some  sharp,  managing  landlady 
has  bought  it,  knowing  its  bad  character,  for  economical  rea- 
sons. Her  boarders  will  not  eat  very  heartily  of  any  dish 
that  is  flavored  with  such  butter,  and  yet  they  Avill  be  com- 
pelled to  eat  something,  even  if  distasteful.  We  know  such 
ideas  of  economy  ŌĆö  not  honesty  ŌĆö  are  common  ;  but  board- 
ers are  very  foolish  who  submit  to  this  imposition.  If  they 
choose,  they  can  easily  teach  such  unscrupulous  managers 
that  being  "  penny  wise  and  pound  foolish,"  in  the  long  run, 
will  not  secure  prosperity. 

But  you  will  try  to  judge  charitably.  Perhaps  this  was  a 
mistake  ;  and  it  may  be  that  only  the  peas  have  suffered. 
You  will  try  to  look  cheerful  and  satisfied,  and  turn  to  the 
nice  piece  of  broiled  chicken  on  your  plate.  Alas,  alas  ! 
Juicy  and  tender,  broiled  just  right  to  a  perfect  brown,  but 
all  destroyed  by  this  miserably  rancid  butter  1  "  The  offence 
is  rank.  It  smeUs  to  heaven  !  "  What  can  you  do  ?  Where 
turn  1  Beets,  beans,  succotash,  ŌĆö  that  dish  to  Avhich,  wdth 
green  peas,  you  swore  allegiance  in  early  childhood,  and  have 
faithfully  kept  the  vow,  ŌĆö  all  destroyed  by  this  most  vil- 
lainous compound.  You  nibble  at  a  bit  of  bread  or  piece 
of  potato,  and  try  to  wait  patiently  till  the  dessert  is  brought 
in,  for  you  see  no  alternative  but  to  make  that  your  princi- 
pal meal.     You  wonder  if  others  are  as  uncomfortable,  but, 


BAD   BUTTER.  273 

conscious  of  the  intense  disgust  your  ftice  may  exhibit,  fear 
to  look  boldly  around. 

"Well,  there  is  a  balm  for  almost  every  woe,  and  here  comes 
the  dessert ;  it  may  bring  healing  for  your  wounded  feelings. 
"What  a  delicious-looking  apple-dumpling  !  This  atones  ! 
Will  you  take  wine  sauce  or  hard  sauce  1  You  don't  like 
wine  sauce  ;  but  the  butter  in  the  hard  savice,  ŌĆö  dare  you 
venture  1  Why,  surely  no  one  "will  risk  such  butter  as  the 
vegetables  Avere  seasoned  with  in  a  delicate  sauce  !  But  one 
taste  is  sufficient  to  show  you  that  you  have  not  yet  fath- 
omed the  depths  of  economical  audacity.  You  put  back 
your  plate  and  try  a  bit  of  pie.  Even  into  the  pastry  the 
enemy  has  found  entrance. 

But  you  say,  "  What  is  one  to  do  ]  The  rooms  are  en- 
gaged for  a  month,  and  I  must  stay  the  limited  time  or 
forfeit  the  price  of  the  rooms,  and  that  I  cannot  afford  to 
do  ;  yet  I  shall  surely  starve.  I  hardly  feel  that  I  can  eat 
a  meal  without  butter.  The  table  butter  is  not  so  intoler- 
able as  that  used  in  cooking,  but  even  that  is  all  I  can  en- 
dure. What  can  I  do  T'  Will  it  not  be  better  economy  to 
leave  at  once,  and  lose  the  rent  of  your  rooms,  rather  than 
stay  and  starve  a  month,  or  attempt  to  "  fill  the  aching 
void  "  by  that  which  may  derange  your  stomach,  and  induce 
fever,  dyspepsia,  or  other  sickness,  which  will  cost,  in  doc- 
tors' bills,  ten  times  the  price  of  your  rooms  to  eradicate  1 

This  great  evil  will  never  be  remedied  while  those  who 
board,  either  regularly  or  only  for  a  few  Aveeks  in  the  summer, 
continue  to  "  put  up  "  with  this  discomfort  as  one  of  the  ills 
of  life  which  mtcst  be  borne.  Let  it  be  once  fully  understood 
that  all  boarders  ŌĆö  aU  who  frequent  fashionable  resorts  ŌĆö 
are  fixed  in  their  determination  to  endure  this  cruel  imposi- 
tion no  longer,  and  that  as  soon  as  they  find  poor  butter  is 
a  part  of  the  regular  diet,  and  good  butter  only  an  occasional 
luxury,  they  will  at  once  leave,  and  we  think  the  hotels  and 

12*  B 


274      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

boarding-liouses  will  soon  find  means  to  procure  a  good 
article.  Let  this  class  of  purchasers  alone  refuse  to  buy  any 
but  the  best,  and  the  large  number  of  poor  butter  makers  will 
soon  be  taught  the  necessity  of  gi'eater  carefulness  in  their 
dairies. 

Bad  butter  is  entirely  a  needless  discomfort.  The  fault 
begins,  of  course,  with  the  manufacturers.  They  have  no 
excuse,  as  a  general  thing.  Once  in  a  great  while,  there  may 
be  a  reason  for  a  few  pounds  of  poor  butter  in  the  dairy, 
which,  though  it  should  be  a  source  of  regret,  is  not  neces- 
sarily a  disgrace.  Sickness  in  the  family  may  sometimes 
compel  the  overtaxed  housekeeper  to  neglect  the  dairy,  or 
leave  it  for  a  short  time  in  incompetent  hands,  who,  either 
indolently  or  ignorantly,  fail  to  give  the  milk-pans  a  thor- 
ough scalding,  or  leave  the  cream  too  long  on  the  milk  and 
too  long  unchurned,  who  do  not  understand  salting  or  work- 
ing over  the  butter ;  but  in  such  cases  no  one  with  any  self- 
respect  will  allow  the  butter  to  leave  their  own  house.  If  at 
all  usable,  they  will  sooner  submit  to  the  disagreeable  neces- 
sity of  using  it  for  their  own  food,  or  put  it  at  once  into  the 
only  place  where  poor  butter  has  any  right  to  be,  ŌĆö  the  soap- 
grease  pot ;  anything  rather  than  do  themselves  the  dis- 
credit, and  their  customers  the  injustice,  of  sending  it  into 
the  market.  That  is  a  species  of  meanness  that  should  be 
considered  unpardonable  ;  and  just  as  soon  as  the  grocer 
learns  that  his  customers  will  not,  under  any  consideration, 
buy  poor  butter  of  him,  and  the  dairy-men  understand  that 
-the  grocer  will  not  look  at  any  but  the  very  best,  this  mis- 
chief will  be  rooted  out,  "  the  plague  be  stayed  "  ;  poor  but- 
ter makers  will  find  their  occupation  gone,  and  leave  the  field ' 
to  more  conscientious  and  more  competent  manufacturers,  or 
at  once,  from  self-interest,  if  not  from  self-respect,  resolutely 
set  about  securing  instruction,  and  learn  the  only  way  to 
make  good  butter.     This  is  easily  done ;  care,  neatness,  and 


BAD  BUTTER.  275 

good  judgment  are  all  that  is  requisite  after  the  mode  of 
operation  is  understood,  and  the  preliminary  steps  are  simple 
and  easily  taken.  It  is  a  marvel  that  this  nuisance  has  been 
so  long  tolerated.  It  is  just  as  easy  to  make  good  butter  as 
poor.  It  is  simply  want  of  neatness  or  deficiency  of  judg- 
ment that  fills  our  markets  with  a  miserable  preparation  that 
is  only  fit  for  soap-grease  or  the  pigs. 

First,  take  care  that  your  cows  are  not  allowed  food  that 
wUl  afiect  the  taste  of  the  milk,  ŌĆö  such  as  turnips,  cabbage, 
or  onions ;  then  the  cows'  bags  and  the  milkers'  hands 
must  be  washed  perfectly  clean  before  beginning  to  milk  ; 
any  dirt  or  bad  flavor  from  the  cow's  bag  or  the  hands, 
that  may  find  its  way  into  the  milk-pail,  will  taint  the 
milk  and  injure  the  flavor  of  the  butter ;  for  it  should  be 
borne  in  mind  constantly,  that  there  is  nothing  that  receives 
any  foreign  taste  so  readily  as  butter. 

Next,  all  the  utensils  ŌĆö  pails,  strainers,  pans,  skimmers, 
churn,  butter-bowl,  and  ladles  ŌĆö  must  be  kept  as  sweet  and 
clean  as  scalding  water  and  a  hot  sun  can  make  them.  The 
cream,  even  in  the  coldest  weather,  must  not  be  allowed  to 
remain  on  the  milk  over  thirty-six  hours,  and  in  warm 
weather  even  less.  In  hot  days  remove  the  cream  as  soon  as 
the  mill?;  begins  to  sour  :  none  will  rise  after  the  milk 
changes.  Although  it  will,  of  course,  become  thicker  by 
souring,  it  does  not  follow  that  it  will  be  any  better ;  on  the 
contrary,  every  moment  the  cream  is  left  on  sour  milk  takes 
from  the  sweetness,  quality,  and  purity  of  the  butter.  In 
churning,  the  motion  should  be  even,  not  too  rapid,  and, 
when  gathered,  the  butter  mu.st  be  well  worked  over  and 
salted,  and  set  on  the  ice,  or  in  a  place  so  cool  that  it  will 
soon  harden  and  keep  so  ;  but  be  sure  that  no  meat,  fish, 
fruit,  or  vegetables  are  put  in  the  milk-room  or  cellar,  ŌĆö 
nothing  from  which  the  milk  or  butter  will  contract  any 
taste.     It  will  require  a  second  salting  the  next  morning,  to 


276      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

renioA^e  Avliat  buttermilk  may  be  left  from  the  first  working. 
One  of  the  great  merits  of  the  Blanchard  churn  is  the  facil- 
ity with  which  the  buttermilk  can  be  freed  from  the  butter, 
as  the  less  manipulation  the  better  for  the  butter,  provided 
you  secure  entire  freedom  from  buttermilk 

Many  put  in  a  little  saltpetre,  to  make  the  butter  hard 
and  firm,  ŌĆö  a  bad  practice,  we  think,  not  only  because  it 
gives  a  slightly  unpleasant  taste  to  the  butter,  but  also 
because  it  may  prove  injurious  to  the  consumer.  A  butter 
pail  or  pot,  perfectly  sweet,  should  be  well  rubbed  Avith  salt, 
and  the  butter  be  packed  in  it,  and  well  pounded  down  so  as 
to  leave  no  air-holes ;  then  cover  the  butter  an  inch  deep 
with  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg,  and  put  to  the 
hrine  two  table-spoonfuls  of  pulverized  saltpetre.  This  will 
help  to  keep  the  butter  sweet  and  hard  ;  and,  used  in  the 
brine,  Avill  neither  impart  any  acrid  taste  to  the  butter  nor 
be  in  the  least  degree  unhealthful. 

These  rules  strictly  followed  by  our  dairy-women,  we  are 
confident  that  there  will  be  no  complaints  of  had  butter, 
but  the  comfort  and  happiness  of  the  consumers  be  greatly 
increased,  and  the  labor  of  the  butter-makers  in  nowise  aug- 
mented thereby. 

"We  lately  saw  a  receipt  for  keeping  dairy  utensils  pure 
and  sweet,  which  we  mean  to  try,  as  we  think  it  cannot  but 
be  advantageous.  Keep  close  by  the  table  on  wMch  the 
milk  things  are  washed  "  a  small  tub  or  a  hogshead,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  your  dairy.  In  this,  slack  some  good 
quicklime,  enough  to  make  a  thin  whitewash ;  fill  with 
water,  cover  closely  to  keep  out  dirt  and  dust.  The  lime 
will  settle,  leaving  a  saturated  solution  of  lime-water  over  it, 
as  clear  as  spring  water.  Wash  the  utensils  as  usual ;  then 
dip  each  article  into  the  cask  of  lime-water,  giving  them  a 
quick  turn,  so  that  every  part  shall  be  immersed  in  the  lime- 
Avater,  then  set  them  up  to  drain  and  dry,  and  the  purifica- 


OCTOBER.  277 

tion  is  complete."  We  presume  in  the  case  of  a  churn, 
cheese-tub,  cheese-press,  or  other  large  article,  that  pouring 
the  lime-water  over  it  will  answer  the  purpose  just  as  well, 
though  using  the  lime-water  up  sooner  than  by  dipping  into 
the  cask. 

The  lime  in  the  clear  water  instantly  neutralizes  the 
acidity  of  the  milk  which  may  yet  remain  in  the  cracks  or 
seams  of  the  milk-vessels.  The  lime  keeps  the  water  pure 
all  summer,  and  the  waste  and  evaporation  may  be  made  up 
by  adding  clear  water  when  needed,  as  the  lime  settled  at 
the  bottom  will  keep  up  the  strength  of  the  saturated  solu- 
tion. 


LXVI. 

OCTOBER. 


THE  brilliant  hues  in  the  mountains,  the  falHng  leaves 
in  the  lanes  (over  Avhich  the  horses'  feet  make  such 
sweet  yet  melancholy  music),  remind  us  that  October,  the 
brightest,  dearest  month  in  the  whole  year,  has  come  ;  but 
while  we  rejoice  in  anticipation  of  the  glorious  hours  it 
promises,  we  must  not  forget  that  during  these  mild,  invigo- 
rating days  our  houses  must  be  set  in  order  properly  to  meet 
the  sharp  November  weather,  which  is  close  at  hand,  and 
the  fiercer  blasts  of  winter  which  will  follow. 

N^ow  the  frosty  nights  and  cool  days  will  soon  relieve  us 
from  the  plague  of  flies,  Avhich  have  by  their  unconquerable 
impertinence  so  perplexed  and  disheartened  all  good  house- 
keepers through  the  summer  ;  at  least  we  may  promise  this 
relief,  if  they  are  hunted  every  night  and  morning  from  the 
dark  corners  where  they  delight  to    hide   at   the   first    ap- 


278      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

proach  of  frost.  Attack  them  every  evening  with  brash  and 
iDroom,  driving  them  ovit  doors  into  the  cold  night-air,  clos- 
ing doors  and  Avindows  after  them,  and  a  few  frosty  nights 
will  rid  you  of  this  evil  for  the  winter.  After  each  battle 
sweep  up  all  the  dead  and  disabled  and  burn  them,  that 
from  out  of  the  pile  which  you  will  have  gathered  no  stunned 
or  crippled  fly  may  be  ready  to  rise  up  against  you  with  the 
morning  sun.  As  the  cold  increases  they  become  stupid  and 
less  active,  and  huddle  together  in  masses  on  the  ceiling  or 
windows,  where  they  cling,  too  stiff  and  torpid  to  shun  your 
approach,  thus  affording  a  good  opportunity  to  brush  down  and 
destroy  them  in  large  quantities.  If  up  each  morning  before 
the  sun,  as  every  good  housekeeper  should  be,  you  will  have 
another  favorable  time  to  remove  them  ;  but  if  both  night ' 
and  morning  these  opportunities  for  banishing  your  enemies 
have  been  neglected,  you  will  find  as  soon  as  the  fires  are 
kindled,  or  the  bright  warm  October  sun  shines  through 
your  windows,  they  will  come  out  from  their  hiding-places 
and  be  just  as  busy  through  the  day,  and  far  more  annoy- 
ing, than  in  July  and  August.  If  you  have  been  vigilant, 
the  frost  and  snow,  combined  with  your  unwearied  skir- 
mishes, will  soon  set  you  free,  and  the  flies  be  remembered 
only  as  trials  of  the  past ;  and  through  the  winter,  at  least, 
you  may  hope  to  rest  from   your  laboi-s  in  this  particular 

direction. 

But  never  imagine  that  you  can  sit  down  in  idleness  ; 
as  the  flies  are  routed,  or  on  the  retreat,  you  will  find 
yourself  beset  with  ivasjjs.  During  the  chHly  September 
clays  they  begin  to  seek  for  winter  quarters.  They  are  well 
content  for  the  most  part  to  weave  their  summer  nests  away 
from  the  house,  in  trees  and  shrubbery  ;  but  as  cold  weather 
approaches  they  are  prone  to  select  some  snug  retreat  under 
the  rafters  of  the  barn  or  the  eaves  of  the  house  or  attics. 
They  like  to  curl  up  in  large  masses  inside  the  window- 


OCTOBER.  279 

blinds  on  the  east  or  south  side  of  the  house,  where  they 
remain  too  torpid  to  stir  at  your  approach,  until  the  sun  pours 
in  its  warm  flood  of  light,  to  wake  them  to  life  and  activity. 
Wherever  they  are  thus  found  massed  together,  if  at  all 
within  reach,  be  sure  and  spare  no  effort  to  destroy  them 
early  in  the  morning,  while  in  this  torpid  condition.  It  is 
very  easy  then  to  kill  them  :  take  a  pitcher  of  boiling-hot 
water,  raise  the  window  carefully  and  pour  it  over  them  ;  or 
if  nested  close  on  the  window-glass,  pour  it  down  between  the 
upper  and  lower  sash  and  it  wUl  destroy  large  quantities  of 
them  instantly.  The  few  stragglers  that  were  only  slightly 
touched  with  the  hot  water  will  not  be  vigorously  active,  and 
you  can  easily  brush  them  into  a  pail  or  dust-pan  and  burn 
them.  Unless  you  take  some  such  method  of  remo\T.ng  the 
wasps,  it  is  not  safe  to  raise  your  windows  to  air  your  rooms 
and  let  in  morning  air  and  sun,  as  they  will  be  sure  to 
seek  shelter  in  the  chamber  instead  of  remaining  inside  the 
window-blind,  because  as  the  sun  warms  their  lodgings  they 
become  quite  lively  ;  and,  once  in  the  room,  should  they 
crawl  in  under  the  pillows  and  sheets,  a  favorite  shelter 
for  them,  the  warmth  of  your  body  at  night  would  most 
probably  rouse  them,  and  they  might  disturb  your  slumber 
in  a  manner  hj  no  means  agreeable. 

It  is  unfortunate  that  wasps  often  attack  without  provoca- 
tion ;  and  such  applicants  for  winter  shelter  should  be  de- 
stroyed as  effectually  as  possible,  especially  when  there  are 
children  about.  Their  stings  are  bad  enough  for  an  adidt  to 
bear,  but  it  is  piteous  to  see  a  child  suffer  from  them  ;  be- 
cause to  the  pain  is  added  a  terror  not  easily  controlled.  ]N"ot- 
withstanding  the  utmost  vigilance,  some  may  so  skillfully  se- 
crete themselves  that  your  first  knowledge  of  their  presence  wQl 
be  a  sting.  Every  one  should  keep  a  speedy  antidote  in  the 
house,  and  nothing  gives  so  thorough  and  instantaneous  re- 
lief as  cut  tobacco,  ŌĆö  the  only  thing  that  we  know  of  that  it  is 


280      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

good  for.  We  never  fail  to  have  a  paper  close  at  hand,  where 
every  one  in  the  house  knows  where  to  find  it.  Wet  a  small 
qimntity  of  it  and  lay  at  once  on  the  spot  stung,  holding  it 
on  tightly  for  three  or  four  minutes,  and  the  pain  and  swell- 
ing wiU  be  at  once  removed. 

These  annoyances  disposed  of,  you  can  noAv  commence  a 
thorough  house-cleaning,  and  at  once  begin  to  remove  all 
the  marks  by  which  the  flies  have  disfigured  your  house 
and  furniture,  and  disturbed  your  peace  through  the  warm 
weather. 

No  good  housekeeper  will  allow  the  glorious  October  days 
to  beguile  her  into  forgetfulness  so  far  as  to  neglect  house- 
cleaning  until  the  raw  and  chilly  JSTovember  weather  is  upon 
her,  and  winter  is  close  at  hand.  October  is  by  far  the  best 
month  for  fall  house-cleaning,  not  only  because  the  flies  are 
disposed  of,  or  so  far  under  your  control  that  they  can  be  kept 
out  of  the  house,  but  also  because  the  Aveather  is  usually  not  so 
warm  that  such  work  is  exhausting  and  severe,  nor  so  cold 
that  the  necessary  exposure  chills  ;  the  cleaning  can  be  accom- 
plished with  more  comfort  and  less  fatigue  than  in  any  other 
month  of  the  year. 

During  the  summer  all  the  small  fruits  have  been  plenti- 
fully supplied,  and  later,  peaches,  pears,  and  grapes  have 
furnished  much  enjoyment  and  many  luxuries  ;  but  all  these 
good  things  levy  a  tax  upon  us  in  some  shape  or  another, 
generally  defacing  furniture  or  lea"\dng  ugly  stains  on  our 
clothes  or  table-linen.  The  clear,  frosty  nights  that  we  may 
soon  look  for  will  aid  materially  in  eradicating  the  stains  ; 
but  the  injury  done  to  furniture,  especially  articles  with  mar- 
ble tops,  requires  a  different  treatment. 

Fruit  stains  may  be  removed  from  linen,  without  in  any 
way  injuring  the  fabric,  by  rubbing  yellow  soap  on  both  sides 
of  the  stained  spots  ;  then  wet  some  starch  in  cold  water  or  in 
lemon-juice  to  a  tlaick  paste,  and  spread  over  the  soap  ;  rub  this 


OCTOBER.  28:1 

starcli-paste  into  the  cloth  thoroughly,  and  expose  the  linen 
to  sun  and  air  till  the  stains  disappear.  If  they  do  not  entirely 
go  in  three  or  four  days,  repeat  the  application.  This  is 
for  stains  that  have  been  in  some  days  ;  if  taken  when  fresh 
stained  there  is  little  trouble  in  removing  them.  Hold  the 
stained  place  over  a  bowl  and  pour  on  hoiiing  water  ;  let  it 
filter  through  slowly,  pouring  on  the  water  gradually  till  the 
stain  disappears  ;  then  lay  the  article  in  the  hot  sun  for  an 
hour  or  two,  when  it  may  be  washed  and  ironed.  The  water 
used  must  be  really  boiling,  and  the  stain  fresh  made,  not 
dried  in  for  days,  for  this  remedy  to  be  efficient.  As  by  this 
mode  one  avoids  all  danger  of  injuring  the  texture  of  the  cloth, 
it  is  worth  while  to  take  a  little  trouble  at  once  and  save  the 
linen  instead  of  waiting  until  quite  dry.  Bleaching  liquids, 
chlorate  of  lime,  Javelle  water,  and  maiiy  other  preparations, 
are  good  if  carefully  used. 

"When  marble  is  stained  with  fruit,  oxalic  acid  diluted 
with  water,  or  oil  of  vitriol  and  water,  rubbed  on  the  stain 
and  left  a  few  minutes,  will  remove  the  spot ;  but  they  must 
be  used  with  care,  for  if  left  on  too  long  they  will  destroy  the 
polish  of  the  marble.  Eub  off  very  dry,  and  polish  with 
chamois-skin. 

There  are  a  multitude  of  receipts  for  removing  stains  both 
from  linen  and  marble,  but  very  many,  although  they  re- 
move the  stains,  are  liable  to  remove  the  cloth  also,  or  in 
marble  destroy  the  polish  ;  others  are  useful,  and  in  time 
our  readers  shall  have  them. 


282      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

LXVII. 

THE   SLAVEEY   OF   FASHION. 

''"TXT^OEN"  OUT/'  "  Overtaxed,"  "  Used  xip''  ''Too  tired 
VV  for  anythiiuj,"  are  expressions  daily  heard  from 
mothers  and  housekeepers ;  and  the  languid  step,  pale,  care- 
worn face,  and  heavy  eyes  bear  witness  that  these  are  not 
foolish,  unmeaning  words,  but  all  too  near  the  truth  for  safety. 
Most  are  ready  to  recognize  the  fact  that  half  the  feebleness 
and  ill  health  among  women  arises  from  over-exertion  while 
attempting  to  carry  burdens  too  weighty  for  the  constitution. 
Yet  how  much  of  this  is  needless,  in  no  wise  increasing  the 
comfort  or  happiness  of  the  family  circle,  but,  in  every 
department  of  household  labor,  the  result  of  blind,  unreason- 
ing adherence  to  the  dictates  of  fashion.  Look  backward 
but  one  half-century.  Are  those  of  us  who  require  three  or 
four  servants  to  keep  the  household  machinery  in  working  or- 
der any  happier  than  our  mothers  were  1  We  turn  from  our 
fashionable  cooking  and  elaborately  served  tables  with  long- 
ing for  the  simpler  yet  most  excellent  cooking  of  the  olden 
time,  when  one  servant  was  sufficient,  and  often  none  at  all 
was  required ;  the  mother,  with  her  little  daughters  round 
her,  preferring  to  do  all  the  work  without  a  servant,  that  she 
might  herself  teach  her  young  girls  the  lessons  of  domestic 
economy  as  none  but  a  mother  can  teach  them. 

Was  all  that  labor  more  wearing  to  health  and  strength 
than  the  cruel  bondage  in  which  we  live,  while  laboring  to 
secure,  from  servants,  the  care  and  efficient  work  absolutely 
necessary  to  the  present  style  of  living  1  With  how  much 
more  appetite  we  partook  of  the  plainly  cooked  and  more 
healthful  food  in  those  days,  undisturbed  by  the  bustle  and 


THE  slavt:ry  of  fashion.  283 

confusion  of  many  courses,  or  the  constant  attendance  of  a 
waiter,  whose  eyes  and  ears  are  usually  more  observing  of  the 
little  pleasantries  and  freedom  of  the  family  circle  than  of 
the  service  which  a  fashionable  style  demands,  and  whose 
tongue  is  ready  to  retail  all  that  is  said  or  done  at  our  table, 
and  "  with  additions  strange."  The  meal  finished,  the  labor 
of  clearing  away  and  washing  the  many  dishes  now  required 
is  fourfold  what  was  demanded  in  the  times  of  more  simple 
and  pleasure-giving  customs,  to  say  nothing  of  the  reckless 
heedlessness  and  destruction  fostered  by  the  haste  necessary 
to  be  ready  for  the  next  formal  meal. 

But  the  slavery  of  providing  for  the  table  is  nothing  in 
comparison  with  the  over-exertion  which  fashionable  dress 
exacts.  Even  if  the  labor  of  the  olden  time  was  burden- 
some, and  time  and  strength  too  heavily  taxed,  yet  the 
exercise  of  the  whole  body,  and  frequent  opportunities  of 
breathing  fresh  out-door  air,  which  housework  compels,  were 
far  more  likely  to  secure  firm  health  than  can  be  hoped  for 
if  one  sits  for  hours  bending  over  ruffling  and  trimmings, 
thereby  restricting  the  proper  action  of  the  lungs,  and  strain- 
ing the  eyes  until  they  become  weak  and  prematurely  old. 
In  many  cases  this  must  all  be  done  Avithout  help,  for  few, 
comparatively,  can  afford  to  hire  a  seamstress,  and  yet  be 
able  to  spend  money  as  lavishly  on  such  elaborate  dress  as 
the  present  monstrous  style  demands.  But  we  are  not  sure 
that  even  that  herculean  task  is  as  injurious  to  health  and 
happiness  as  the  severe  strain  on  strength,  nerves,  and  temper, 
which  those  ladies  whose  purses  are  always  full  experience 
in  traversing  the  city,  roaming  from  store  to  store,  in  their 
anxiety  to  secure  the  first  and  newest  style,  and  at  the 
same  time  torturing  themselves  lest,  after  all  this  labor,  they 
should  misjudge  or  be  beguiled  into  wrong  selections.  With 
this  fear  ever  present,  they  repeat  those  tiresome  journeys 
day  after  day,  making  themselves  disagreeable  and  uncom- 


284     MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPEES. 

fortable,  and  exhausting  the  wonderful  long-suffering  and 
patience  of  the  shopkeepers  before  they  can  decide  which  of 
all  the  many  patterns  they  will  purchase. 

But  the  material  being  at  last  selected,  can  they  now  rest 
from  their  labors  'I  Ah,  no  !  their  trials  are  but  just  begun. 
The  ruling  power  in  the  fashionable  world  ŌĆö  the  dress- 
maker ŌĆö  condescends  to  acknowledge  that  the  articles  se- 
lected are  all  satisfactory,  though  twenty  or  even  thirty 
yards  are  hardly  enough  for  a  full  dress  (our  mothers  looked 
very  fine  and  far  more  inviting  and  graceful  with  but  ten 
yards  in  their  dresses).     But  now  comes  the  great  struggle. 

How  shall  the  dress  be  made  1     Mrs. has  twelve  small 

frills  or  flounces  around  her  skirt,  and  a  train  two  feet  long-; 
then  there  must  be  a  bustle  "  ever  so  bi^^,"  over  which  falls  a 
pannier,  with  puffs,  bows,  buttons  innumerable,  bands,  folds, 
and  ŌĆö  mercy  !  we  are  getting  beyond  our  depth,  for  we  can- 
not possibly  understand  all  the  terms  given  to  the  piles  upon 
piles  of  strange  "  fixings  "  which  go  to  make  up  the  whole  of 
that  most  abominable  deformity  called  a  fashionable  dress. 
But  the  poor  harassed  devotee  has  them  all  at  her  tongue's  end, 

for  her  heart  is  full  of  them.     If  Mrs. has  a  dozen  ruffles 

or  puffs,  she  will  not  be  outdone,  but  will  have  eighteen  or 
twenty,  and  a  bustle  twice  as  big,  which  shall  extend  her 
overskirt  and  all  its  puffs  and  bands  twice  as  far  ;  and  ever  so 
many  more  dozen  buttons  all  over,  ŌĆö  above,  below,  before, 
behind,  between  tJae  frills  or  bows,  ŌĆö  anyivhere,  so  that  Mrs. 

's  trimmings    are    surpassed.      "  But,   truly,  now,  dear 

madam,  is  this  the  very  latest  style '?  Is  n't  there  something 
just  a  little  newer  ?  "  And  then  another  discussion  begins, 
anxious,  nervous,  and  trembling,  lest  some  one  should  be 
a  little  ahead  of  her  in  style.  The  poor  slave  spends  many 
precious  hours  before  she  dares  to  decide  on  the  pattern.  But 
at  last  that  question  is  settled ;  and  now  another  trouble 
assails  her.     The  arrogant  dress-maker  well  understands  the 


THE  SLAVERY   OF   FASHION.  285 

power  these  devotees  of  fashion  have  vested  in  her  hands, 
and  her  victims,  prond,  sensitive,  and  overbearing  perhaps 
to  all  others,  must  bow  to  her  will  and  caprices.  She  will 
take  her  own  time  to  finish  the  work. 

"  r>ut,  0  madam  !  I  mast  have  it  for  this  party,  before 
any  one  else  has  this  new  style." 

She  pleads  in  vain.  Xo  coaxing  will  avail.  She  must 
await  the  despot's  will,  and  spend  hours  or  days  excited 
and  unhappy,  fearing  that  the  dress  will  not  be  finished  in 
season  for  the  party.  And  when  at  last  it  comes,  look  at  it ! 
"VA'c  could  laugh,  were  we  not  ashamed  to  think  that  women 
can  be  so  absurd.  What  can  be  more  uncouth,  ungraceful, 
or  deforming  than  a  lady  dressed  in  the  extreme  of  fashion, 
or  indeed  with  but  half  the  absurdities  that  are  daily  seen. 
A  camel,  with  its  hump  and  peculiar  gait,  is  graceful  com- 
pared with  the  figures  witli  frowzy  hair,  dresses  puffed  and 
looped  up  over  a  "bustle,  that  we  see  stooping  and  tottering 
on  high-heeled  boots,  or  with  the  additional  incumbrance  of 
a  long  trail,  sweeping  through  our  parlors,  and,  at  the  slight- 
est beck  of  fashion,  drabbling  through  the  mud. 

Will  our  women  never  learn  that  they  are  giving  health 
and  strength,  almost  life,  "  for  that  which  satisfieth  not  "  1 
Once  in  a  while,  when  the  bondage  has  pressed  too  heavily, 
and  they  sink  exhausted  on  a  sick-bed,  some  few  wake  to  a 
dreamy  kind  of  consciousness  of  their  folly ;  or  a  mother, 
who  has  endeavored  to  make  her  little  girl  as  "  fine  as  the 
finest,"  is  prostrated  by  giving  her  strength  for  this  ab- 
surd Avaste  of  time  and  comfort,  and  begins  to  see  that 
there  is  a  better  way  she  can  manifest  her  love  for  her 
child. 

A  year  or  two  ago  we  received  a  letter,  from  which  we 
will  copy  a  few  sentences  :  ŌĆö 

"  I  have  been  trying  to  get  away  to  the  country  with  my 
family   of  two    little   girls  and    the   baby ;   and,   that    they 


286     MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH    YOUNG    HOUSEKEEPERS. 

might  appear  in  as  fine  feathers  as  any  other  birds,  have 
overworked  and  gone  to  bed  sick,  instead  of  being  seated  in 
a  nice  parlor-car,  inhahng  the  pure  country  air,  as  we  whirl 

along,  away  from  the  city When  I  was  a  girl,  we 

wore  our  own  hair ;  and  a  white  muslin  dress,  with  a  fresh 
ribbon  for  a  sash,  Avas  all  that  was  needed  for  the  largest 
party.  And  how  we  did  enjoy  ourselves,  and  life  !  The 
elderly  people  talked,  or  played  whist,  while  the  young  ones 
danced  right  merrily  the  old,  square  cotillion,  Virginia  reel, 
etc. ;  and  mirth  and  pleasure  was  the  finale  of  many  a  day 
whose  early  hours  had  been  given  to  domestic  duties,  which 
then  were  shared  by  all  at  home.  One  day  with  a  dress- 
maker, and  no  machine,  made  a  dress  entire,  without  fatigue. 
The  "  artiste  "  was  often  a  lady  like  ourselves,  and  sat  at  the 
same  board,  and  did  her  work  conscientiously,  while  the 
day  she  passed  with  us  was  no  dreaded  ordeal,  but  rather  a 
pleasure  to  look  forward  to 

"  Well,  to-day,  lying  on  my  bed,  overtaxed  and  over- 
worked, I  have  been  thinking  of  these  things,  and  then  of 
other  mothers,  who,  like  myself,  spend  all  their  strength  in 
toil,  and  he  awake  all  night,  '  too  tired  to  sleep ' ;  and  so 
employ  the  wakeful  hours  in  planning  work  for  another  day, 
using  up  as  fast  as  possible  the  precious  gift  of  life,  which 
the  good  Father  above  gave  to  us." 

Now,  why  can  Ave  not  be  content  to  live  happily  and 
easily  ?  I  speak  not  of  the  sorrows  that  from  time  to  time 
come  upon  us,  when  the  heart  bleeds,  and  the  wounds  quiver 
long;  for  the  deep  scars  which  tell  where  the  strain  was 
hardest,  tell  also  of  the  healing  which  He  who  scourges 
never  fails  to  bring.     God  did  it. 

But  the  toil  of  sorrow  and  care  we  make  for  ourselves 
have  no  promise  of  His  relieving.  The  slavery  of  fashion, 
which  so  often  leads  to  sin,  cannot  be  carried  to  his  throne, 
and  left  there  for  a  blessing.     Will  not  some  one  tell  us 


PICKLING   AND   PRESERVING.  287 

some  practical  way  to  begin  a  reform,  to  release  us  from  a 
bondage  which  is  becoming  intolerable  ? 

It  may  be  to  have  one  ruffle  less ;  to  tuck  more  sparsely 
the  flounce  of  even  the  innermost  petticoat,  or  to  sew  one 
yard  less  edging  on  a  baby's  shirt.  But  whatever  and 
wherever  the  lesson,  I  pray  you  begin  it  at  its  A  B  C  ;  and 
as  it  advances,  I  have  faith  to  believe  that  headaches  will 
be  lessened,  "  prostrations  "  less  nervous,  appetites  and  sleep 
more  regular,  and  women  lift  their  heads  like  the  flowers 
after  the  rain,  glad  and  grateful. 

We  had  something  to  say  of  the  injury  done  to  our  little 
children  by  this  early  training  in  devotion  to  fashion  ;  but 
we  must  leave  that  for  another  time. 


LXVIII. 

PICKLING  AND  PRESERVING. 

IN  the  preliminary  steps  to  almost  all  new  enterprises 
there  are  "  lions  in  the  way,"  from  which  it  is  very  natu- 
ral, at  first,  to  shrink  back  with  at  least  a  partial  discourage- 
ment ;  and,  as  a  general  thing,  the  two  most  formidable 
"  lions  "  which  cross  the  young  housekeeper's  path  are  pic/ding 
and  preservmg ;  that  is,  if  she  has  not,  before  marriage, 
taken  part  in  this  work,  under  her  mother's  supervision. 
We  hear  more  complaints  and  repining  in  this  direction  than 
in  any  other.  Time,  strength,  and  money,  it  is  affirmed,  are 
spent  in  earnest  endeavors  to  succeed  ;  but  the  time  and 
strength  are  given  in  vain,  and  the  money  is  wasted  ;  so  their 
failures  compel  them  to  believe.  The  pickles  become  slimy 
and  moldy  ;  the  jelly  won't  harden  ;  the  sweetmeats  fer- 
ment ;  ^e  canned  fruit  turns  sour.     In  short,  "  the  troubles 


288      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

and '  trials,"  writes  one,  "  incident  to  this  portion  of  house- 
keeping are  enough,  to  make  young  girls  forswear  matrimony, 
and  go  into  a  convent ;  only  they  never  will  believe  in  these 
trials  until  they  are  hound  ;  and  then,  instead  of  a  convent,  a 
hoarding- house  would  seem  the  only  alternative,  if  they  would 
escape  manifold  vexations  ;  for  if  a  young  housekeeper  do  not 
succeed  in  all  her  duties,  but  particularly  with  her  pickles 
and  preserves,  '  Mrs.  Grundy '  is  sure  to  go  prying  about,  and 
expose  every  failure,  and  these  failures  are  attributed  to  shift- 
lessness,  instead  of  misfortune." 

We  have  great  sympathy  for  any  one  in  her  first  attempt 
to  manage  this  portion  of  fall  labor,  unless  able  to  secure  the 
support  of  some  judicious  friend  familiar  with  all  the  minu- 
tiae necessary  to  accomplish  it  creditably.  Courage,  self-reli- 
ance, and  a  resolute  will  are  of  very  great  advantage,  and  can 
itsually  carry  one  successfully  through  most  difficulties ;  but 
experience  is,  after  all,  a  wonderful  assistant  in  securing  suc- 
cess, ŌĆö  in  "  making  crooked  places  straight,  and  the  rough 
places  smooth  "  and  easy.  Our  household  journals  and  pa- 
pers are  full  of  instructions  and  receipts  for  preparing  every 
kind  of  pickles  and  preserves ;  but  with  all  these  valuable 
aids,  it  will  require  several  experiments,  in  most  cases,  before 
a  beginner  can  feel  that  the  difficulty  is  mastered,  and  this 
work  stripped  of  all  mystery  ;  once  successfully  done,  how- 
ever, it  becomes  as  simple  as  making  bread,  pastry,  or  cake. 

Still,  we  cannot  but  think  that  too  much  time  and 
strength  are  expended  in  private  families  on  some  parts  of 
this  labor.  Since  this  kind  of  work  is  done  on  a  large  scale, 
and  these  luxuries  so  cheaply  procured  in  the  many  excel- 
lent establishments  arranged  expressly  for  the  business,  and 
wliich  have  reduced  the  various  operations  to  the  simplest  and 
easiest  forms,  we  feel  confident  that  housekeepers  might  re- 
lieve themselves  of  this  part  of  their  cares,  and  be  none  the 
poorer  for  it ;  certainly  this  is  true  as  far  as  canned  fAits  and 


PICKLING  AND   PRESERVING.  289 

preserves  are  concerned.  It  is  but  reasonable  to  suppose  that 
in  these  large  manufactories,  with  every  appliance  and  con- 
venience to  secure  the  most  perfect  and  expeditious  work,  in 
many  articles  they  can  equal,  if  not  surpass,  the  most  expert 
cook  or  housekeeper. 

The  regular,  old-fashioned  preserve,  with  "  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,"  is  much  less  used  since  the  system 
of  canning  fruit,  and  thus  retaining  the  natural  flavor,  has 
been  introduced.  This  is  certainly  more  healthful,  and  to 
most  tastes  more  palatable,  than  the  rich  preserves.  The  per- 
son must  be  fastidious  indeed  who  could  ask  for  any  sweetmeat 
more  delicious  than  the  pears,  peaches,  cherries,  and  plums 
that  now  fill  our  markets  and  groceries,  and  there  can  be  no 
doubt  that  for  those  who  must  buy  the  fruit,  and  take  the 
labor  and  risk  of  canning  it,  it  is  far  more  economical  to  buy 
it  from  the  factories  or  grocers  ready  canned.  Even  when  one 
has  the  privilege  of  raising  one's  own  fruit,  if  it  can  be  sold 
with  reasonable  profit  we  think  it  questionable  if  there  is 
anything  saved  ŌĆö  any  real  economy  ŌĆö  in  canning  the  fruit  at 
home,  instead  of  buying  it.  For  those  who  have  leisure, 
and  do  not  find  it  important  to  be  very  exact  in  economizing 
strength  or  money,  it  is  all  very  well  to  do  everything  of 
this  kind  at  home.  To  many  whose  time  hangs  heavily  on 
their  hands,  ŌĆö  and,  mythical  as  it  seems,  we  suppose  there 
are  such,  ŌĆö  preserving  as  much  as  they  can  of  every  variety 
of  fruit,  even  to  the  absurdity  of  using  watermelon-rinds 
and  cucumbers,  is,  perhaps,  a  real  pleasure.  Though,  while 
books  are  to  be  obtained,  and  fine  flowers  and  beautiful 
scenery  to  be  seen,  we  cannot  comprehend  how  one  can 
spend  time  in  this  work,  simply  for  the  enjoyment  of  it. 
But  it  is  all  well  enough  if  it  gives  pleasure  ;  and  doubtless 
articles  prepared  Avith  one's  own  hands  have  a  flavor  more 
acceptable  than  when  they  are  bought  ready  for  use.  But  to 
all  housekeepers  whose  minutes  are  precious,  these  labor- 
13  s 


290      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

saving  manufactories  are  a  great  blessing,  and  the  slight  dif- 
ference that  may  be  recognized  in  the  excellence  of  the 
article,  when  compared  with  the  home-made,  is  not  to  be 
noticed  when  we  remember  the  additional  time  and  ease,  to 
say  nothing  of  health,  one  secures  by  buying  preserves  and 
canned  fruit  from  reliable  establishments. 

Whether  these  ideas  hold  good  with  regard  to  pickles, 
may  be  somewhat  doubtful.  We  cannot  but  think  that  the 
large  amount  of  spices,  now  so  much  used  in  making  pickles, 
is  injurious  to  the  health;  even  the  simplest  kind,  we 
are  inclined  to  believe,  should  be  used  with  moderation  ; 
and  as  the  imported  pickles,  and  those  prepared  in  the  man- 
ufactories in  this  country,  are  often  compounded  with  arti- 
cles known  to  be  injurious,  it  is  safer  to  make  whatever  is 
required  in  the  way  of  pickles,  whether  mixed  or  plain,  at 
home,  under  your  own  eyes.  Some  of  the  various  kinds  of 
vinegar  now  in  use,  and  largely  employed  in  the  factories 
for  pickles,  is  very  injurious.  The  process  of  "  greening  " 
pickles  is  carried  on  with  most  reckless  disregard  of  health. 
A  bottle  of  small,  delicately-greened  pickles  is  very  attractive 
to  those  who  do  not  know  the  poison  hidden  in  them. 

Cider  vinegar  of  the  purest  quality  is  the  best.  But  in 
the  process  of  making,  if  pickles  are  soaked  or  boiled  in 
a  brass  kettle,  they  are  poisoned  by  the  verdigris,  or  acetate 
of  copper,  which  is  formed  by  the  action  of  the  vinegar  on 
the  brass.  Acid  dissolves  the  lead  that  there  is  in  the  tin- 
ning of  saucepans,  and  corrodes  copper  and  brass,  and  if  it 
remains  in  such  vessels  any  length  of  time  the  vinegar  be- 
comes very  injurious.  For  these  reasons  metal  kettles 
should  be  discarded  in  making  pickles.  When  necessary  to 
boil  vinegar,  use  a  stone  jar  on  the  stove,  and  also  use 
wooden  spoons  and  forks.  Most  suppose  that  the  delicate 
green  cannot  be  obtained  without  the  use  of  alum  in  the 
brine,  and  in  this  brine  they  must  be  soaked,  boiled,  and 


PICKLING  AND  PRESERVING.  291 

allowed  to  cool  in  a  brass  kettle  half  a  day.  They  claim 
that  by  thus  soaking,  the  skin  is  acted  upon  by  the  metal,  or 
acetate  of  copper,  and  by  soaking  afterward  in  hot  water 
this  poison  can  be  so  far  removed  as  to  be  no  longer  inju- 
rious. It  is  said  that  if  soaked  long  enough  in  the  brass  to 
bring  out  the  full  green,  pickles  would  be  dangerously  poi- 
soned ;  and  that  one  can  tell  if  this  has  been  done  by  the 
clear,  light  green  color  ;  but  if,  after  soaking  in  the  alum  and 
brine,  in  brass,  half  a  day,  and  then  being  removed  and 
soaked  in  hot  water,  the  action  of  the  heat  turns  them  a 
dark  grass  green,  the  poison  is  destroyed.  This  may  be  so, 
but  we  prefer  pickles  made  green  without  the  help  of  brass, 
or  not  green  at  all.  There  are  Avays  by  which  all  adultera- 
tions may  be  discovered.  The  chemist  would  find  no  diffi- 
culty in  ascertaining ;  but  very  few  of  those  most  interested 
ŌĆö  our  housekeepers  ŌĆö  are  competent,  even  if  they  have 
time  or  inclination,  to  examine  these  things  scientifically, 
and  therefore  it  is  well  to  insure  against  harm  in  domestic 
manufacture  by  having  it  fully  understood  that  metal  kettles 
of  every  kind  should  be  discarded. 

The  many  kinds  of  sweet  pickles  that  have  become  com- 
mon within  a  few  years  are,  we  imagine,  less  liable  to  de- 
range the  stomach  than  such  as  are  spiced.  higMy,  and  pre- 
pared mainly  with  vinegar.  The  mixed  pickles  ŌĆö  piccalilli, 
Indian  pickle,  Bengal  pickle  or  chutney,  and  the  Chow 
Chow  ŌĆö  are  all  fiery,  and  must  require  an  uncommonly  strong 
digestion  to  be  eaten  without  injury. 

But  each  one  must  judge  for  himself.  Pickles  of  all  kinds 
will  always  be  in  use,  no  doubt,  and  it  is  well  for  every 
housekeeper  to  know  how  they  are  made.  Pickles  should  be 
always  kept  covered  with  vinegar,  and  if  at  any  time  there 
are  indications  of  their  becoming  moldy,  boil  up  the  vinegar 
again,  adding  more  spice.  Have  the  jar  two  thirds  full  of 
pickles,  and  one  third  full  of  vinegar.  Keep  the  jar  closely 
stopped,  as  exposure  to  the  air  will  make  them  soft. 


292      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

In  greening  pickles  (for  they  can  be  greened  enough  with- 
out brass)  keep  them  closely  covered  while  the  hot  vinegar  is 
on  them,  so  that  none  of  the  steam  may  evaporate.  Boil 
them  only  four  or  five  minutes,  or  it  will  take  away  their 
strength,  and  they  will  soon  become  soft. 


LXIX. 

WHAT  HAS  BECOME  OF  ALL  THE  LITTLE  GIRLS  ? 

"TT'T'E  look  in  vain  into  many  pleasant  homes,  or  into 
V  V  the  streets,  cars,  or  steamers,  for  what  was  once  a 
common  sight,  and  was  then,  and  ever  must  be,  the  sweetest 
object  in  nature,  ŌĆö  a  simple,  artless  little  girl  with  all  the 
pretty,  unaffected  ways  and  manners  of  iinsophisticated  child- 
hood, fresh  and  beautiful,  about  her.  There  is  no  lack  of 
small  beings,  dressed  in  such  a  marvelous  style  that  Darwin 
himself  would  be  puzzled  to  make  out  the  class  to  which  they 
belong  ;  but  we  find  nothing  to  remind  us  of  the  little  girls 
we  used  to  know,  either  in  dress  or  manners. 

In  former  times  a  pretty  muslin  bonnet  or  a  simple  close- 
fitting  cottage  straw  was  thought  the  most  appropriate  cover- 
ing for  a  little  head,  protecting  the  bright  eyes  from  too 
intense  light,  and  shielding  the  rosy  cheeks  from  the  sun's  too 
fervid  kisses  ;  but  now,  leaving  eyes  and  cheeks  entirely  un- 
protected, we  see  something  placed  on  the  sunny  curls,  which 
is  elaborately  trimmed  with  bows,  feathers,  a  flower-garden,  or 
perhaps  a  mingling  of  both  ;  for,  although  it  is  too  small  for 
even  a  good-sized  doll,  the  milliner,  with  an  ingenuity  which 
would  have  been  praiseworthy  if  exercised  in  a  more  sensible 
manner,  has  contrived  to  pile  up  trimming  enough  to  hide 
even  the  faintest  suspicion  of  a  bonnet.     But,  what  is  sadder 


WHAT   HAS  BECOME   OF  ALL  THE  LITTLE  GIRLS  1      293 

than  the  lack  of  true  taste  and  good  common-sense  in  this 
styHsh  affair,  we  see  no  semblance  of  childlike  simplicity  in 
the  wearer.  And  the  bonnet  is  but  the  beginning  of  this 
unfortunate  change  winch  we  mourn  ;  the  pretty  hahy  ivaist, 
the  plain  white  dress,  the  neat  muslin  or  merino,  so  appro- 
priate, which  little  girls  used  to  wear,  are  supplanted  by  in- 
comprehensible garments,  the  fac-shnile  of  the  grand  dame's 
attire  ;  flounces,  fringes,  bows,  and  double  skirts  looped  and 
festooned  in  an  astounding  manner ;  the  child's  ŌĆö  no,  we 
mean  the  young  lady's  ŌĆö  height  (there  are  no  children  in  these 
days)  is  less  than  her  circumference.  This  dress  is  put  on 
over  a  hoop,  and  the  "  mite  "  who  is  made  to  carry  such  an 
incongruous  burden  totters  about  on  high-heeled  boots.  This 
tiny  specimen  of  womanhood,  hardly  weaned  from  her 
mother's  breast,  or,  more  probably,  a  wet-nurse's,  shakes  out 
her  redundant  robes,  bending  and  twisting  her  small  body  in 
grotesque  imitation  of  the  women  spoken  of  by  the  Prophet 
Isaiah,  "  with  haughty  mien,  walking  and  mincing  as  they 
go."  See  how  the  little  ape  looks  over  her  shoulders  as  she 
tottles  about,  to  be  sure  that  her  hoops  give  her  dress  and 
figure  the  correct  wiggle  her  sharp  eyes  have  observed  in  the 
stylish  mother  and  her  fashionable  friends.  It  is  lamentable 
that  all  the  simplicity  and  beauty  of  babyhood  and  child- 
hood should  be  destroyed  by  fashion. 

Added  to  the  absurdity  of  the  dress,  these  little  women 
attempt  to  discourse  on  the  "  latest  style  "  \  Ō¢Āwith  their  com- 
panions or  dolls  you  will  hear  them  imitating  the  discussions 
on  this  subject  that  they  daily  hear  in  the  parlor  or  nursery 
from  their  mother  ;  or,  still  imitating,  with  a  contemptuous 
toss  of  their  little  heads,  they  will  inform  their  listeners  that 
they  "couldn't  think  of  'sociating  with  those  girls,  because 
they  are  not  stylish  !  " 

A  few  days  since,  as  we  passed  out  of  a  store  on  Broadway, 
our  attention  was  arrested  by  the  conversation  of  two  little 


294      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

figures  seated  in  a  fine  carriage,  waitiiag,  doubtless,  fur  mam- 
ma to  finish,  her  shopping.  They  were  dressed  in  a  style 
positively  overwhelming  :  their  hats  were  wonders  of  skill ; 
their  gloves  had  the  orthodox  number  of  buttons,  with 
bracelets  over  them  ;  a  dainty  handkerchief,  suspended  from 
a  ring  attached  by  a  chain  to  another  ring  on  the  little  doU-like 
fingers,  ŌĆö  the  dress  was  simply  indescribable.  The  elder 
was  speaking  to  the  younger,  who,  scarcely  more  than  a  baby, 
sat  demurely  by  her  side  :  "  0,  mercy,  just  look  at  that 
horrid  little  girl  who  is  crossing  the  street !  she  has  no  hoops 
on,  and  not  a  single  flounce  ;  no  trimming  at  all  on  her  dress  ! 
and,  oh,  see  her  gloves  ;  she  has  only  one  button  !  Pshaw, 
she  's  nobody,  ŌĆö  not  a  bit  of  style  !  " 

The  younger  lisped  a  reply,  which  we  lost  as  we  passed 
on  ;  but  it  was  painful  to  think  of  the  training  they  must 
have  received  which  enabled  them  at  that  early  age  to  judge 
a  child  of  their  own  years  so  quickly  by  the  rules  of  fashion- 
able dress,  and  because  her  attire  was  not  in  exact  accordance 
with  that  week's  style,  turn  from  her  with  contempt  as 
something  too  low  for  their  notice. 

Then,  again,  how  soon  a  child,  taught  by  daily  precept  and 
example,  learns  to  watch  her  little  companions  with  envious 
or  exultant  feeling,  as  the  case  may  be !  How  quickly  she 
begins  to  grow  hoUow-hearted  and  deceitful ;  receiving,  as 
she  sees  her  elders  do,  a  companion  with  open  arms  or  a 
welcoming  smile ;  expressing  the  greatest  affection,  but  the 
moment  she  leaves  begin  to  criticise  or  make  unkind  re- 
marks. 

"  I  don't  like  JSTellie  one  bit,  mamma  ;  she  's  such  a  proud, 
stuck-up  thing  !  I  suppose  she  thought  I  should  feel  bad 
'cause  her  dress  had  more  trimming,  and  was  a  little  newer 
style  than  mine.  I  did  n't  let  her  know  that  I  noticed  it. 
But  I  do  think  it  real  mean,  mamma,  that  she  should  have 
nicer  things  than  mine.     Papa  is  twice  as  rich  as  her  father. 


WHAT    HAS   BECOME   OF   ALL   THE   LITTLE   GIRLS?      295 

It  made  me  mad  to  see  her  show  off  her  dress ;  and  she  kept 
looking  at  mine  and  sister's  in  such  a  Avay." 

"  I  hope,  my  dear,  you  were  poKte  to  NelHe." 

"  0  yes  !  but,  mamma,  I  was  awful  glad  when  she  left ; 
though  I  was  just  as  smiling  and  pleasant  as  could  be  to 
her  face." 

"  That 's  a  good  girl.  You  must  always  be  very  polite  and 
cordial  to  your  companions,  you  know.  But  I  must  say  I 
think  Nellie  was  quite  vain ;  and  you  must  never  show  that 
you  are  proud  of  your  clothes.  I  shall  go  out  to-morrow  and 
get  you  that  pretty  dress  you  teased  so  for,  I  think  !  " 

"  0  mamma,  I  am  so  glad !  And  as  soon  as  it  is  made 
I  '11  go  right  over  and  call  on  Nellie.  "Won't  she  feel  bad 
when  she  sees  my  new  dress !  It  will  be  ever  so  much 
prettier  than  hers." 

And  the  mother  smiled  complacently,  with  never  a 
thought  of  the  wicked  feelings  she  was  cultivating  in  her 
child.  0  mothers !  how  can  you  be  so  blind !  Both  by 
precept  and  example  you  are  teaching  your  children  to  make 
urcss  their  idol,  and  to  know  very  little  of  anything  but  that 
which  pertains  to  fashion  ;  to  be  envious  or  contemptuous  of 
their  little  friends  and  companions,  according  as  they  are 
dressed  better  or  worse  than  themselves.  Can  you  ever  reflect 
that  God  did  not  commit  such  treasures  to  your  keeping 
without  meaning  some  day  to  call  upon  you  to  render  up  the 
account  of  your  stewardship  1  What  can  you  say,  when  asked 
how  you  have  trained  the  young  souls  given  to  your  care  1 
Can  you  reply,  "  We  have  been  instant  in  season  and  out  of 
season  in  teaching  them," ŌĆö  what  1  To  work  for  the  good  of 
others  ;  to  learn  to  do  right ;  in  all  simplicity  to  love  and  obey 
the  Saviour,  who,  taking  a  little  child  in  his  arms,  said,  "  Of 
such  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  Of  such  ?  Ah,  no  !  Not 
of  such  children  as  those ;  you  are  training  to  avoid,  not  evil 
communications,  but  unfashionable  companions  ;  to  look  on 
the  outward  adorning,  and  not  on  the  heart. 


296      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

But  it  is  not  alone  the  worldly-minded  who  make  no  pre- 
tence to  any  higher  law  than  their  own  selfish  gratification, 
who  bow  the  knee  to  fashion.  Christian  mothers,  are  you 
guiltless  1  Think  of  the  time,  the  health  and  strength  given 
to  dress  ;  the  bondage  which  compels  you  to  pervert  all 
real  taste,  to  do  violence  to  your  own  natural  instincts  of 
neatness  and  true  elegance,  and  accept  the  absurdities  of 
fashion,  simply  because  the  ruling  style  requires  it.  If  you 
are  thus  influenced  and  beguiled,  do  you  flatter  yourselves 
that  your  children  will  not,  from  their  earliest  years,  regard 
such  homage  as  important  ]  We  do  not  think  it  wrong  to 
dress  neatly  and  in  as  good  taste  as  possible.  "We  blame 
none  for  giving  so  much  thought  to  their  own  dress  and 
their  children's  as  to  provide  those  articles  that  are  appropri- 
ate and  becoming  to  the  different  styles  of  face,  figure,  and 
complexion.  It  is  natural,  and  we  think  right,  for  a  mother 
to  dress  her  darlings  as  neatly  and  prettily  as  she  can,  with- 
out unnecessary  waste  of  time  and  strength;  but  we  do 
think  it  sin  to  spend  money  and  time  lavishly  in  following 
the  dictates  of  fashion,  and  not  of  good  taste  and  common- 
sense  ;  no  one  pretends  to  believe  that  there  is  either  of 
these  in  the  present  style  of  dressing.  It  is  utterly  destitute 
of  grace  ;  is  ridiculous  to  the  last  degree ;  but  fashion  com- 
pels, and  women  ŌĆö  Christian  women  ŌĆö  obey,  and  teach  their 
little  daughters  like  obedience  !  0,  the  money,  time,  and 
strength  given  to  destroy,  by  the  absurdities  of  fashionable 
dress,  every  vestige  of  beauty  and  grace  which  God  gave 
you.  in  your  little  ones !  Take  the  week  through,  hour  by 
hour,  do  you  not  give  more  time  and  thought  to  your  own 
and  your  children's  dress  than  you  can  spare  for  your  Mas- 
ter's service  %  Do  not  your  children  gather  from  your  daily 
walk  and  conversation  that  to  be  fashionably  dressed  is  of 
more  hnportance  than  loving  and  serving  the  Saviour,  who 
died  for  them  and  you  1     Judging  by  your  daily  conversa- 


PROCRASTINATION.  297 

tion,  which  will  they  think  of  the  greatest  importance,  the 
service  of  God,  or  devotion  to  fashion  1  To  which  do  they  see 
you  giving  the  largest  part  of  your  time,  the  adorning  of 
their  little  bodies,  ŌĆö  "  the  plaiting  the  hair,  the  wearing  of 
gold,  and  putting  on  of  apparel," ŌĆö  or  in  teaching  them  that 
Avhich  is  not  changeable,  "  not  corn;ptible,  even  the  orna- 
ment of  a  meek  and  quiet  spirit,  which  is,  in  the  sight  of 
God,  of  great  price  "  1  What  can  you  say,  fashionable  Chris- 
tian mother,  when  He  calls  you  to  give  an  account  of  your 
stewardship '? 


LXX. 

PROCRASTINATION. 

AN  inclination  to  put  off  till  to-morrow  that  which  were 
more  appropriately  done  to-day  seems  quite  natural 
to  almost  every  one,  but  it  is  one  of  the  symptoms  of  deprav- 
ity, and  the  earlier  it  is  fought  and  conquered  the  better. 
There  are  some  sensible  mothers  whose  constant  endeavor  is 
to  prevent  this  habit  from  gaining  a  foothold  in  their  chil- 
dren's characters.  From  earliest  childhood  they  watch  and 
nip  it  in  the  bud.  Those  who  have  lived  an  active  life  ŌĆö Ō¢Ā 
every  moment  claiming  its  own  special  work  ŌĆö  are  the 
mothers  who  can  best  train  their  children  to  understand  the 
full  value  of  the  prompt,  regular  performance  of  each  duty, 
however  small. 

"  Come,  little  one,  it  is  time  to  get  up."  The  child  is 
perhaps  disinclined,  thinks  one  more  little  nap  would  be 
comfortable.  But  it  is  time  to  prepare  for  breakfast,  and 
what  is  gained  by  delay  is  nothing  but  the  first  lesson  in 
selfish  indulgence  and  procrastination.  The  child  does 
not  need  it.  If  it  went  to  bed,  as  it  sliould  have  done, 
13* 


298      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

when  the  birds  folded  their  heads  under  their  wings,  it  re- 
quires no  more  sleep.  A  few  gentle  words  or  caresses  will 
soon  chase  all  traces  of  slumber  from  those  bright  eyes, 
and  the  little  one,  merry  as  the  birds,  is  soon  ready  for 
breakfast. 

"While  children  are  very  young  begin  this  education,  and 
see  that  it  is  distinctly  understood  that  no  excuse  but  illness 
can  avail.  They  must  be  up  at  a  given  hour,  and  by  the 
time  they  are  twelve  years  old  you  will  find  it  difficult  to 
keep  you  little  girls  and  boys  in  bed  beyond  the  regular  time. 
You  have  thus  established  a  habit  of  early  rising  which  will 
cling  to  them  through  life ;  that  is,  if  their  mother  gently 
and  lovingly  impressed  upon  their  minds  what  they  would 
lose  by  delay  and  gain  by  promptness.  Eut,  although  a  stern 
and  severe  compulsion  may  secure  obedience  while  under 
your  eye,  by  that  course  you  make  the  act  so  disagreeable 
and  repulsive,  by  associating  it  with  your  stern  manner,  that 
they  are  tempted  to  rush  to  the  other  extreme  whenever  they 
can  do  so  with  impunity. 

Children  naturally  love  play  better  than  work  or  study  ; 
but  it  is  better  that  they  early  learn  that  there  is  something 
besides  play  which  even  little  girls  and  boys  can  and  must 
do.  They,  of  course  with  no  evil  intention,  will  be  inclined 
to  stretch  the  play  hour  or  recess  a  little  beyond  the  ap- 
pointed time.  It  is  the  parent's  duty  to  watch  and  guard 
against  this,  not  on  account  of  the  real  good  which  a  young 
child  might  accomplish  in  these  few  extra  moments,  but  for 
the  sake  of  establishing  a  habit  which  wiU  be  of  infinite 
service  for  the  child  in  after  years,  that  the  discipline,  though 
for  the  present  not  joyous,  may  work  for  its  future  happiness 
and  usefulness.  Therefore,  make  the  hours  for  recreation  as 
frequent  as  seems  necessary,  only  let  it  be  distinctly  under- 
stood til  at  when  that  time  expires  there  must  be  no  delay,  no 
procrastination.    As  the  child  grows  older  and  able  to  exercise 


PROCRASTINATION.  299 

a  little  judgment,  it  will  soon  become  conscious  of  the  loss  in- 
curred by  dilatoriness,  and  the  gain  secured  by  a  prompt  per- 
formance of  duty.  A  judicious  mother  will  soon  teach  it  liow 
to  contrast  the  two  modes  of  action,  and  a  few  unfortunate 
experiments  will  fully  corroborate  her  teachings.  The  perialty 
to  be  paid  for  leaving  any  duty  which  should  be  done  now 
until  "  by  and  by,"  generally  follows  very  speedily  after  the 
omission. 

When  qitite  young  we  were  given  a  piece  of  work  one 
morning  which  should  not  have  occupied  an  hour's  time. 
In  the  afternoon  our  brothers  were  to  go  to  a  neighboring  town 
in  a  sleigh,  and  we  were  promised  a  ride  with  them,  on  con- 
dition that  this  work  was  finished  in  season.  It  was  a  rich 
treat,  and  we  were  greatly  elated.  The  work  we  were  set  to 
do  was  so  easy  we  made  merry  over  the  idea  of  a  failure.  But 
the  sun  did  shine  so  brightly,  and  it  was  so  pleasant  to  stand 
at  the  east  windows  and  Avatch  the  men  at  the  huge  wood- 
pile, sawing  and  splitting  the  winter  store  of  wood ;  and  it 
was  such  fun  to  see  the  old  gander  chase  our  little  roguish 
brother  away  from  the  place  where  the  stately  old  fellow  kept 
watch  and  ward  over  his  mate  on  her  nest,  that  every  few 
minutes  our  sewing  was  forgotten  and  we  were  seated  on  the 
old-fashioned  windoAv-sill.  A  gentle  voice  often  reminded 
us  that  we  were  wasting  time,  and  must  be  left  behind  if 
that  simple  seam  were  not  finished  in  season. 

"  O  mother  !  I  can  finish  it  just  as  easy  !  " 

"  Yes,  dear,  if  you  work  steadily,  but  not  if  you  delay  in 
this  manner."  Dear,  patient  mother !  How  much  easier 
for  her  to  have  taken  our  neglected  work  and  done  it  herself 
than  to  keep  such  a  vigilant  watch  over  a  giddy  girl ;  but 
for  a  child's  good  a  mother  bears  all  things. 

Time  flew  by,  unregarded  by  our  idle  fingers.  Presently 
a  sleigh  dashed  up  to  the  door,  the  bells  jingling  merrily.  It 
cannot  be  time  !     But  a  cheery  voice    rang    out,   "  Come, 


300      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

sister,  not  a  minute  to  spare," ŌĆö  and  that  little,  little  bit  of 
Ō¢Āwork  not  quite  done  ! 

"  0  mother,  mother  !  only  a  few  more  stitches  !  See  ! 
0  mother,  let  me  go  ! "  But,  even  while  we  uttered  this 
piteous  wail,  we  knew  that  mother  could  not  break  her  word. 
When  she  took  her  sobbing  little  girl  on  her  lap,  and  ex- 
plained how  necessary  it  was  that  we  should  suffer  the 
penalty  of  our  persistent  procrastination,  if  we  would  ever 
destroy  this  bad  habit,  we  were  conscious  that  her  grief  was 
deeper  than  our  own,  that  she  suffered  with  us.  We  did  not 
soon  forget  that  lesson,  and  it  did  not  require  many  similar 
ones  to  effect  a  pretty  substantial  cure. 

JSTo  one  is  more  strongly  tempted  to  put  off  till  a  more 
convenient  season,  here  and  there,  some  minor  duty,  than  a 
housekeeper  whose  cares  are  many,  and  helpers  very  few. 
By  afternoon  she  is  so  weary,  rest  would  be  very  pleasant, 
but  just  as  she  thinks  she  may  indulge  in  one  half-hour's 
quiet,  some  little  item  rises  up  that  should  receive  attention 
to-day.  "  I  have  half  a  mind  to  let  it  pass  till  to-morrow," 
but  to-morrow  has  it  own  duties,  and  unexpected  ones  may 
arise.  A  few  experiments  in  this  most  excusable  of  all 
procrastinations  will  teach  the  folly  of  the  attempt  to  add 
to  the  already  filled  register  of  the  next  day's  work  the 
duties  of  the  present  time. 

The  clothes  are  brought  up  from  the  wash ;  on  sorting 
them  out  and  putting  them  in  place,  you  find  a  small  hole  in 
this  article  or  a  rip  in  that.  You  are  very  tired,  your  head 
aches  ;  to  thread  your  needle  and  mend  those  few  small  rips 
or  holes  seems  a  burden.  "It  is  so  little  I '11  let  it  go  till 
next  week,  one  week's  more  wear  can't  make  much  differ- 
ence." And  it  is  laid  aside  unmended.  How  is  it  when  it 
next  comes  vip  from  the  laundry  1  A  huge  rent  or  a  most 
appalling  hole  is  the  result.  A  heavy  wind  arose  when  the 
clothes  were  on  the  line,  and  with  every  snap  a  dozen  more 


PKOCRASTINATION.  301 

stitches  were  added  to  the  work  that  procrastination  has  cost 
you,  if  indeed  the  garment  is  not  ruined  past  any  repairing. 
"  A  stitch  in  time  saves  nine." 

Some  friends  have  just  left  your  house.  During  their 
visit  much  work  accumulated,  while  you  felt  bou^nd  to 
entertain  your  guests.  Either  you  are  with  no  help,  or  your 
servants  are  very  busy,  and  you  say,  "  I  '11  take  off  the  soiled 
linen  from  the  bed,  and  leave  the  room  to  air  a  few  days,  or 
till  a  more  convenient  season." 

The  airing  is  all  very  proper,  but  two  or  three  days  are 
not  needed  for  it,  and,  if  you  leave  the  bed  unmade,  you  will 
not  hnd  it  wise  or  at  all  labor-saving  in  the  end.  Let  the 
room  and  bed  air  until  you  are  ready  to  take  off  the  sheets 
and  pillow-cases  that  need  to  be  changed.  When  you  go  up 
to  do  that,  take  with  you  the  clean  articles,  and  being  there, 
why  not  finish  the  work  and  leave  all  in  order  1  But,  if 
instead  of  that  you  say,  "  We  '11  put  the  '  spare  chamber '  in 
order  to-morrow,"  perhaps  just  as  you  are  retiring,  a  carriage 
stops  at  your  door,  and  guests  quite  unexpected  arrive,  who 
find  it  convenient  to  stop  with  you  overnight,  to  be  ready 
for  the  morrow's  train,  and  late  in  the  evening  the  guest- 
chamber  must  be  prepared.  Just  try  this  once  or  twice,  ŌĆö 
you  '11  not  care  to  try  it  oftener,  ŌĆö  and  see  if  some  one  don't 
come  unannounced  just  as,  when  tired  and  sleepy,  you  are 
ready  to  retire.  Will  it  be  any  easier  to  do  the  work  which 
was  put  off  till  a  "  more  convenient  season,"  at  this  late  hour, 
than  it  would  have  been  to  have  finished  it  at  the  proper 
time  1 

"  There  is  hardly  enough  bread  to  last  through  to-mor- 
row." 

"  Well,  it  is  stormy  ;  we  sha'  n't  be  likely  to  have  company 
to-morrow.  I  guess  this  will  answer,  or  we  will  stir  up  some 
biscuit  if  needed." 

In  spite  of  wind  or  weather,  be  sure  if  you  risk  the  delay 


302      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

you  will  liave  unexpected  guests,  and  will  regret  that  you 
neglected  to  be  ready  for  the  emergency. 

"  Here  are  some  letters  which  should  be  answered  imme- 
diately." 

"  I  guess  it  won't  make  much  difference  if  I  leave  them 
till  to-morrow.  I  am  very  busy  now."  So  you  wait.  Are 
you  any  less  busy  to-morrow  1  A  head-ache,  or  a  sick  child, 
or  company  prevents  an  answer  then.  Your  correspondent 
waits  anxiously  for  yoiu'  reply,  the  failure  of  which  may  be 
the  cause  of  great  inconvenience. 

We  could  multiply  examples,  but  your  own  experience 
will  fill  up  the  picture,  and,  if  you  are  wise,  teach  you  that 
each  day  has  its  own  duties,  which  can  be  mastered ;  but  if 
you  add  to  them  the  work  of  yesterday  you  make  the  burden 
grievous  to  be  borne.  Your  old  "  copy-books  "  told  you, 
when  you  were  young,  that  Procrastination  is  the  thief  of 
time.  In  riper  age  remember  it.  "  Never  put  off  till  to- 
morrow that  which  you  should  do  to-day." 


LXXI. 

THE   SUREST   EEMEDY. 

TO  the  troubles  and  annoyances  which  befaU  housekeep- 
ers there  is  no  end,  if  they  are  obHged  to  rely  on 
servants  for  comfort  and  peace  of  mind.  In  social  gatherings 
the  conversation  often  turns  on  the  trials  they  experience 
from  this  part  of  their  household.  It  is  not  at  aU  strange 
that  it  should  be  so,  for  "  out  of  the  abundance  of  the  heart 
the  mouth  speaketh,"  and  verily  in  this  particular  the  heart 
has  ample  reasons  for  being  abundantly  fiUed,  and  there  is 
no  end  to  just  cause  of  complaint. 


THE  SUREST  REMEDY.  303 

One  girl  is  a  good  worker,  but  impudent ;  another  is 
always  willing,  but  very  untidy.  This  one  is  neat,  but  so 
slow  that  her  work  is  never  finished.  That  one  is  unequalcd 
in  order  and  efficiency,  but  her  temper  is  so  uncertain  you 
cannot  make  a  suggestion  without  risking  a  storm  that  quite 
destroys  all  the  pleasure  her  excellent  work  might  otherwise 
afford  you.  One  is  extravagant  and  wasteful ;  another  eco- 
nomical in  using  materials  for  your  family,  but  dishonest  in 
appropriating  your  property  for  her  own  benefit. 

So,  in  a  company  of  a  dozen  ladies,  one  takes  up  the  dis- 
course as  the  other  ends,  and,  Avithout  exaggeration,  proves 
her  own  trials  even  more  vexatious  than  her  neighbors'.  It  is 
possible  that  the  mistress,  by  searching,  may  find  some  slight 
symptoms  of  these  very  defects  in  her  own  character.  The 
least  said  on  that  side  of  the  question  the  better,  perhaps. 
But,  as  Ave  once  heard  a  lady  say,  "  We  don't  hire  servants 
for  that  sort  of  actions." 

But,  whatever  may  be  the  defects  of  the  mistress,  we  know 
there  are  very  strong  foundations  on  which  to  build  the  com- 
plaints about  servants ;  for  it  cannot  be  denied  that  these 
"  troublesome  comforts  "  have  it  in  their  power  to  diminish 
the  sum  of  domestic  happiness,  to  a  degree  which  requires 
much  grace  and  patience  to  endure  Avith  equanimity ;  and 
that  the  power  they  have  usurped  is  on  the  increase  will  not, 
Ave  imagine,  be  gainsaid.  Once  the  employes  in  the  family 
fully  understood  the  position  they  were  engaged  to  fill  in 
their  employer's  house  ;  and  knew  that  certain  service  Avas 
paid  for,  which  must  be  strictly  and  honestly  rendered,  or 
they  Avould  lose  their  place,  and  having  lost  it,  unrecom- 
mended,  Avould  find  it  difficult  to  secure  another.  Once  ŌĆö 
and  the  time  is  not  so  far  distant  but  that  most  of  us  can  still 
remember  it  ŌĆö  one  girl  Avas  expected  to  do  the  Avork  tliat  Ave 
are  noAV  compelled  to  employ  three  to  do.  And  this  one  girl 
did  the  AVork,  and  did  it  well,  ŌĆö  far  better  than  we  can  hope 


304      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

to  have  it  done  now.  She  was  not  injured  by  it ;  no  com- 
plaints were  made,  we  mean  in  ordinary  cases,  ŌĆö  in  every 
station  some  may  be  found  who  abuse  power  and  cruelly 
oppress  those  whom  circumstances  have  placed  in  an  inferior 
j)osition ;  but  these  are  only  solitary  cases ;  as  a  general  thing 
there  was  no  ground  for  complaint.  The  service  was  kindly 
and  cheerfully  rendered.  But  now,  with  three  or  four  girls, 
the  work  drags,  is  imperfectly  done,  and  "  the  work  is  too 
hard  "  is  the  constant  cry.  Why  is  this  1  What  reason  can 
be  assigned  for  a  change  so  complete  and  annoying  1 

In  part  because  the  foreigners  who  land  on  our  shores,  and 
upon  whom,  unfortunately,  we  are  obliged  to  depend  for  all 
labor  which  we  cannot  do  ourselves,  come  to  us  with  strange 
ideas  of  what  is  meant  by  all  being  "  free  and  equal  "  ;  or,  if 
you  take  one  right  from  the  emigrant  vessel,  it  requires  but 
a  few  weeks  for  those  of  their  nation,  who,  having  been  here 
longer,  think  themselves  better  informed,  to  impart  their 
knowledge,  and  teach  erroneous  ideas  of  these  rights. 
Under  such  bad  influence  it  takes  but  a  short  time  for  the 
modest  stranger,  whom  you  received  into  your  house  and  en- 
deavored to  teach  a  correct  mode  of  labor,  to  be  transformed 
both  in  dress  and  manners  into  a  bold,  self-willed  girl.  Her 
countrywomen  gather  about  her  and  Avarn  her  not  to  be 
"put  upon,"  ŌĆö  a  favorite  phrase  among  those  whose  chief 
aim  is  to  get  the  highest  price  for  the  least  labor.  "  Stand 
up  for  your  rights  "  ;  and  they  proceed  to  expound  a  code  of 
"  rights  "  which,  if  they  were  allowed  to  carry  into  practice, 
would  soon  leave  us  entirely  at  their  mercy. 

They  are  told  to  insist  upon  just  so  many  times  at  church, 
and  certain  days  "out."  Then  the  funerals ŌĆö and  there 
never  was  such  mortality  as  is  always  happening  among  our 
servants'  relations,  particularly  the  cousins  ŌĆö  and  the  wed- 
dings, and  the  baptism  of  infants  for  which  our  girls  are  to 
stand    "  sponsors,"    all    come   upon  us  in  quick  succession. 


THE  SUREST   REMEDY.  305 

Then,  every  step  of  the  work  each  girl  is  expected  to  do 
must  be  carefully  defined,  and  you  are  not  to  be  allowed  to 
call  upon  them,  on  any  condition,  for  one  thing  over  and 
above  the  specihed  labor. 

How  has  this  class  of  persons  succeeded  in  taking  and 
maintaining  such  a  stand]  In  part  it  has  grown  up,  gradu- 
ally, from  seeing  in  their  employers  the  independence  that  is 
a  distinctive  peculiarity  in  our  national  character.  But  that 
which,  when  rightly  regulated,  is  a  noble  thing,  when  used 
by  uninformed  and  undisciplined  minds,  for  selfish  ends,  is 
not  likely  to  bring  forth  the  most  desirable  results. 

But  is  not  the  trouble  and  disturbance  through  our  ser- 
vants, which  particularly  characterizes  the  present  day,  in 
part  the  fault  of  the  ignorance  of  the  mistress  %  Our  ladies 
give  much  less  attention  to  domestic  affairs  than  in  former 
times  ;  and  our  young  ladies  are  growing  up,  for  the  most 
part,  poor  housekeepers.  The  material  for  the  very  best  of 
servants  may  be  easily  ruined  by  a  poor  mistress.  Much 
time  and  money  is  expended  on  the  education  of  our  girls  ; 
but  that  part  of  education  which  would  help  to  keep  them 
strong  and  healthful  is  almost  entirely  ignored,  ŌĆö  we  mean 
regular  work,  at  stated  times,  about  the  house ;  not  only  to 
establish  good  health,  but  to  secure  a  thorough  knowledge  of 
domestic  operations. 

"  What  time  has  a  young  girl  to  do  anything  at  home  %  " 
True.  What  time  for  home  affairs,  with  the  present  mode 
of  education,  and  the  present  customs  of  social  life,  have 
young  men  or  maidens?  Our  teachers  know  they  are  ex- 
pected to  "  fill "  their  pupils  to  the  utmost  extent  of  their 
mental  capacity,  and  social  life  grasps  every  moment  that 
can  be  spared  from  books  or  schools,  even  claiming  the 
hoiirs  that  should  be  given  to  sleep.  Xo  matter  about  the 
health.  "  That  is  not  our  business,"  say  the  educators  ;  and, 
"  That  is  not  our  business,"  echoes  Fashion.     Our  children 


30G      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

go  from  one  study  to  another  ŌĆö  rushing  on  to  be  educated 
ŌĆö  as  fast  as  possible ;  and,  in  two  years  after  leaving  college 
or  seminary,  of  what  practical  use  will  half  these  studies, 
for  which  they  have  given  so  much  time  and  health,  be  to 
them  1  Far  be  it  from  us  to  undervalue  a  thorough,  practi- 
cal education,  ŌĆö  one  that  will  fit  our  boys  and  girls  to  lead 
good  and  useful  lives.  "  Its  price  is  above  rubies."  But 
we  sometimes  think  that  they  are  being  educated  to  death  ; 
mind  and  body  enfeebled  and  made  unhealthy  for  lack  of 
practical  common-sense  on  the  part  of  parents  and  teachers. 
If  more  time  was  given  to  physical  labor  while  our  children 
are  growing  up,  and  less  time  to  schools,  and  fewer  studies 
crowded  into  each  term,  the  fathers  and  mothers  would  not 
grow  old  so  fast,  ŌĆö  being  relieved  of  part  of  their  work ; 
and  our  young  people  would  have  nobler  minds  in  sounder 
bodies. 

But  to  return  to  housekeeping,  and  the  young  who  must 
take  that  position :  let  them  secure  as  much  knowledge  as 
they  can  without  injury  to  health,  but  let  it  be  understood 
that,  whatever  place  they  may  be  called  upon  to  occupy,  a 
thorough  domestic  education  will  be  the  best  foundation  on 
which  to  build,  and  by  which  they  can  best  secure  happi- 
ness, honor,  and  usefulness. 

Instead  of  filling  the  papers  with  lamentations  because 
they  are  not  permitted  certain  rights  which  an  unregulated 
ambition  urges  them  to  claim,  let  our  women  first  be  certain 
that  they  fuUy  understand  how  to  exercise  aU  the  rights 
which  are  unalienably  their  own,  and  which  no  one  attempts 
to  dispute.  Let  these  rights  be  well  cared  for  and  properly 
executed,  and  who  will  object  to  any  woman's  reaching  out 
after,  and  securing  just  as  many  more  as  she  can  possibly 
assume  and  manage  successfully,  without  neglect  of  other 
duties  already  her  own.  Let  the  highest  right,  the  noblest 
that  woman  can  desire,  ŌĆö  for  it  is  next  to  the  angels',  ŌĆö  the 


THE  SUREST  REMEDY.  307 

supreme  right  which  God  gave  us,  and  no  man  disputes  or 
can  usurp,  be  fully  appreciated  and  acted  upon,  ŌĆö  the  right 
to  make  a  glorious  ho77ie,  to  make  our  husbands  nobler, 
because  they  are  happy  and  comfortable  there  (they  don't 
know  how  to  do  that,  they  can't  take  care  of  themselves 
without  us) ;  the  right  to  nurse  and  rear  and  bless  our 
children ;  the  right,  with  the  ability,  to  teach  our  servants 
by  our  own  practice  how  to  be  a  blessing  to  themselTes  and 
to  us.  Then  enter  the  lists,  if  you  choose,  and  do  battle  for 
just  as  many  of  what  have  been  called  mans  rights  as  you 
are  capable  of  managing  well,  or  have  any  ambition  for. 

Until  these  first  duties  are  understood  and  properly  per- 
formed the  prospects  for  home  comforts  and  happiness  are 
very  shadowy.  The  fault  is  not  wholly  with  the  servants. 
If  those  duties  which  belong  to  the  mistress  are  delegated 
to  uneducated,  ill-informed  subordinates,  what,  even  with 
the  very  best  intentions,  can  you  expect  but  anarchy  and 
misrule  1  Care  and  experience  are  as  essential  to  good 
housekeeping  and  home  comforts  as  in  any  other  profession 
or  field  of  labor. 

The  lawyer  cannot  look  for  success  in  his  profession  if  he 
simply  opens  an  office  and  delegates  the  care  to  an  ignorant 
office-boy,  while  he  himself  knows  nothing  about  law,  and 
never  studies.  The  doctor  gives  years  of  time  and  study- 
before  he  attempts  to  practice.  The  merchant  goes  through 
a  long  apprenticeship  before  he  commences  business  for  him- 
self ;  but  our  young  girls  leave  the  school-room  to  assume  a 
right  of  which  they  know  nothing,  ŌĆö  the  privilege  and 
honor  of  making  a  home.  If  women  would  only  understand 
how  much  skill  and  power  is  requisite,  what  a  noble,  honor- 
able thing  it  is  to  succeed,  or  become  eminent  as  a  home- 
maker,  there  would  be  fewer  boarding-houses,  fewer  miser- 
able, dissipated  husbands,  fewer  fast,  wild,  reckless  children, 
and  fewer  worthless  servants. 


308      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

LXXII. 

A  FEW   LITTLE   THINGS. 

'TXT'E  take  up  now  a  few  perplexities  which  are  apt  to 
V  V  disturb  the  equanimity  of  the  young  housekeeper, 
and  propose  to  give  some  minute  directions  for  the  better 
performance  of  those  "  little  tilings "  which  so  often  dis- 
courage the  beginner,  such  as  the  building  of  fires,  dust- 
ing, etc. 

With  an  open  grate  or  fireplace  in  daily  use,  it  is  very 
necessary,  before  any  dusting  can  be  thought  of,  to  clear  out 
the  grate,  remove  the  ashes,  and  kindle  the  fire  ;  for  nothing 
so  fills  a  room  with  dust  as  the  necessary  work  about  a  fire 
of  any  kind,  even  with  the  most  careful  management.  To 
be  ready  to  do  this,  or  in  a  condition  to  instruct  a  girl  how 
to  do  it,  it  is  important  that  the  necessary  implements  and 
conveniences  should  be  on  hand,  and  in  a  suitable  condition 
for  easy  and  successful  operation. 

And,  first,  a  coarse  piece  of  bagging,  or  an  old  bit  of  car- 
peting, or,  if  you  have  neither,  a  large  piece  of  stout  brown 
wrapping-paper,  should  be  kept  in  an  appropriate  place,  ready 
for  this  part  of  the  morning's  work ;  even  old  newspapers 
will  answer,  though  by  no  means  so  convenient  or  durable 
as  bagging.  Spread  a  large  strip  before  the  grate  or  fireplace 
to  protect  the  oil-cloth  or  carpet  from  ashes  and  cinders  while 
you  are  clearing  out  the  grates.  This  done,  lift  up  the  fen- 
der or  polished  hearth-pan,  always  in  front  of  a  grate,  and 
set  it  down  on  the  floor-cloth  or  bagging.  Put  up  the 
blower,  and  with  the  poker  rake  out  all  the  ashes  that  can 
be  shaken  from  the  under  part  of  the  grate.  By  keeping 
the  blower  up  while  doing  this,  most  of  the  ashes  which 


A   FEW   LITTLE  THINGS.  309 

Avould  otherwise  float  over  the  room,  lodge  in  the  furniture 
or  carpet,  and  in  the  end  do  them  much  injury,  will  be  made 
to  fly  up  chimney.  Having  thus  removed  all  the  ashes,  you 
can  take  the  blower  down  and  rake  again  smartly  from  the 
top  until  only  the  half-burnt  coals  remain. 

]^ow,  with  a  stout,  coarse  holder  kept  expressly  for  that 
purpose,  take  the  ash-pan,  full  of  ashes,  from  under  the  grate, 
and  empty  it  in  an  ash-barrel  in  the  cellar,  or  out-doors ;  by 
no  means  empty  them  from  the  pan  into  an  empty  coal-hod 
in  the  room,  as  is  too  often  done.  Be  careful  that  no  live 
coals  go  into  the  barrel.  You  will  be  obliged  to  watch  a 
girl  very  carefully  about  this  "  little  thing,"  or,  under  the 
silly  idea  that  it  saves  work,  most  girls  will  do  this  so  care- 
lessly when  you  are  not  by,  that  your  rooms  will  be  filled 
with  ashes  by  their  foUy. 

When  the  ashes  have  been  emptied,  if  your  grate  rests  on 
cleats  or  is  fitted  into  sockets,  lift  it  off  and  turn  into  the 
ash-pan  the  half-burned  coals  which  remain,  to  be  taken  out 
and  sifted  before  using  again ;  then,  placing  the  grate  on  the 
bagging,  with  a  small  whisk-broom  proceed  to  brush  down 
into  the  pan  all  the  soot  and  ashes  that  have  lodged  on  the 
sides  and  back  of  the  fireplace.  Do  this  gently,  so  as  to 
avoid  sending  it  out  into  the  room.  When  done,  remove  the 
pan,  sweep  up  any  ashes  or  litter  that  may  be  on  the  hearth, 
wash  it  clean,  and  put  back  the  grate  and  ash-pan  into  their 
proper  places.  Set  up  the  fender,  roU  up  a  quantity  of  waste 
paper  and  put  into  the  grate  (if  thrown  in  loosely  it  will  burn 
out  instantly  before  the  kindling  catches),  put  on  the  kind- 
ling, and  start  the  fire.  If  where  you  can  get  col-e  from 
the  gas-houses  for  the  foundation  of  the  fire,  it  will,  we 
think,  prove  good  economy,  for  you  will  need  but  two  or 
three  pieces  of  kindling,  as  it  ignites  readily  without  a 
blower,  making  a  very  warm  fire,  and  soon  causing  the  hard 
coal  to  burn  brightly. 


310      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Here,  also,  great  watchfulness  is  requisite  if  you  trust  to  a 
servant  to  start  fires,  for,  unless  closely  followed,  they  will 
persist  in  half  filling  the  grate  with  kindling,  even  when 
they  are  provided  with  coke,  and  need  to  use  but  very  little 
wood.  In  the  city,  where  wood  is  so  dear,  economy  in 
kindling-wood  becomes  quite  important. 

The  tire  having  been  kindled,  the  rooms  can  now  be  set 
in  order.  Of  course  the  window-blinds  were  opened  the  first 
thing  after  dressing  in  the  morning,  that  gas  or  lamps  might 
not  be  left  to  burn  needlessly.  We  are  tempted  to  stop, 
before  dusting,  and  say  a  word  on  the  extravagant  use  of  gas 
or  oil  by  the  servants  about  a  house,  but  we  must  leave  that 
for  another  time,  and  proceed  to  finish  the  first  part  of  every 
morning's  work. 

In  dusting,  a  soft  but  not  too  fine  cloth  should  be  first 
used.  At  almost  all  dry-goods  stores  cloths  are  to  be  had 
with  soft,  tufted  nap,  especially  adapted  for  dusters  ;  but  an 
old  towel  may  be  kept  for  that  purpose,  and  answers  very 
well  if  you  cannot  obtain  these.  Gently  wipe  up  with  the 
dusting-cloth  whatever  ashes  or  dust  may  have  settled  over 
the  mantel  or  furniture,  but  do  not  wipe  it  off  on  to  the  floor 
to  settle  again  into  the  carpet  or  furniture  in  the  room,  ŌĆö  that 
would  be  spending  time  for  naught,  ŌĆö  and  as  you  proceed  take 
it  up  into  the  dust-cloth,  and  every  little  while  shake  it  out 
of  the  window  or  door.  In  this  way  go  over  everything 
once,  that  the  greatest  part  of  the  dust  may  be  disposed  of, 
being  particular  to  wipe  in  and  around  moldings,  carvings, 
and  cornices,  Avhere  dust  seems  more  inclined  to  rest  than 
on  the  plainer  surfaces.  This  finished,  go  over  all  again  with 
an  old  silk  handkerchief  or  chamois-sldn,  rubbing  hard 
enough  to  remove  spots  or  finger-marks,  and  bring  a  nice 
clean  polish  on  the  furniture  or  ornaments  in  the  room.  If 
you  have  pictures  hung  round  the  walls,  a  long-handled 
feather-brush  is  quite  necessary,   especially  if  the  room  is 


A   FEW   LITTLE  THINGS.  311 

high  studded,  as  city  rooms  generally  are  at  the  present 
day.  You  cannot  sj)are  the  time  every  morning  to  bring 
in  a  step-ladder  in  order  to  dust  the  tops  of  the  picture- 
frames  or  the  casings  and  moldings  over  and  around  doors 
and  windows ;  but  if  left  some  days  untouched,  the  moths 
will  soon  find  it  out  and  take  up  their  abode  in  such  desir- 
able quarters.  The  long  feather-brush  wiU  easily  remove 
most  of  the  light  dirt  that  settles  in  such  high  places,  but  do 
not  use  it  with  a  sharp,  quick  flourish,  as  whatever  dust 
lodges  so  high  cannot  be  taken  up  with  the  coarse  dusting- 
cloth,  and  must,  of  course,  if  disturbed,  fall  to  the  floor,  but 
if  brushed  oti"  rashly,  will  fly  over  everything.  For  this 
reason  the  tops  of  pictures  and  doors  should  be  dusted 
first,  that  there  may  be  an  opportunity  to  remove  what- 
ever settles  unavoidably  when  going  over  other  parts  of  the 
room. 

Every  three  or  four  weeks  the  tall  step-ladder  is  needed, 
and  then  all  these  places  which  cannot  be  reached  other- 
wise must  be  well  cleaned  and  rubbed,  and  the  casings  of 
windows  and  doors  wiped  clean  with  a  wet  cloth.  This 
work,  when  done,  must  always  be  after  the  regular  sweeping- 
days. 

Windows  require  attention  every  day  ;  we  do  not  mean,  to 
be  washed  every  day,  but  to  be  dusted  and  have  the  spots 
carefully  rubbed  off".  The  dust  from  the  streets  finds  easy 
entrance,  and  settles  readily  on  the  window-panes,  which 
would  soon  become  dim  and  blurred  without  daily  oversight. 
Especially  is  this  the  case  in  damp  weather,  or  when  one 
lives  near  salt  air.  Brush  each  window  with  a  short-handed 
feather-brush,  if  you  have  one ;  if  not,  save  and  dry  tur- 
keys' wings,  or  the  long  tail-feathers  from  any  poultry,  tie 
them  up  neatly,  and  you  secure  an  inexpensive  feather-brush, 
and  as  effective  as  if  bought  at  the  store.  If  you  find  spots 
or  finger-marks  on  the  window-glass,  put  your  mouth  to  the 


312      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

spot  and  breathe  sharply  on  it ;  then,  before  your  breath 
evaporates,  rub  quickly  with  a  clean  linen  cloth  or  a  cha- 
mois-skin, and  you  will  be  well  repaid  for  your  labor. 

It  requires  some  time  and  many  words  to  explain,  as  mi- 
nutely as  you  wish,  how  all  these  little  things  should  be  done  ; 
but  if  you  are  methodical,  you  will  soon  learn  to  work  quick- 
ly as  well  as  thoroughly,  and  will  be  very  much  surprised 
to  see  how  short  a  time  is  needed  to  do  all  that  we  have 
been  so  long  telling.  You  will  use  less  time,  take  the  month 
through,  by  careful  dusting  and  necessary  cleaning  each  day 
than  ŌĆö  neglecting  this  duty  ŌĆö  you  would  be  compelled  to  give 
every  few  weeks  in  one  great  cleaning  effort,  by  which  the 
whole  family  must  be  incommoded,  meals  delayed,  poorly 
cooked,  or  dispensed  with  altogether  for  the  time  being,  be- 
cause it  is  "  cleaning  day."  !N"o  wonder  husbands  shrink 
from  such  days,  preferring  dirty  rooms  aU  the  time  to  having 
clean  ones,  for  which  they  pay  such  unsatisfactory  premiums. 
A  little  quiet  care  and  cleaning  every  day  will,  we  think, 
secure  the  largest  amount  of  freedom,  and  certainly  much 
more  pleasure  and  happiness  for  all,  than  these  dreaded  days 
of  confusion  and  discomfort. 


LXXIII. 

PLANNING   FOR   THE  WEEK. 

NOTHING  so  simplifies  labor  as  a  well-defined,  regular 
plan  for  each  day's  specific  duties.  At  first,  to  one  un- 
accustomed to  systematic  work,  it  may  be  difficult  to  get  into 
the  track,  and  follow  the  route  until  it  is  so  familiar  that  it 
becomes  almost  second  nature.  But  with  each  effort,  duties 
thus  methodically  performed  will  be  easier,  and  when  the 


PLANNING   FOR  THE  WEEK.  313 

plan  you  design  to  follow  has  been  well  digested,  and  each 
l^art  so  adapted  as  to  reach  toward  the  good  of  the  whole, 
labor  will  not  only  be  greatly  diminished,  but  a  positive 
pleasure  in  the  performance  of  duties  so  perfectly  organized 
will  be  the  crowning  reward. 

Yet  to  arrange  a  plan  for  each  day  requires  thought  and 
judgment,  and  she  must  be  a  wonderful  character  who,  from 
the  beginning,  can  so  perfect  a  code  of  laws  for  the  regular 
discharge  of  household  labor,  that  no  modification  or  change 
will  be  necessary.  If  a  young  housekeeper,  at  the  end  of 
one  year's  trial,  begins  to  feel  somewhat  at  home  in  her  do- 
minions, she  should  be  well  content,  nor  allow  a  shadow  of 
discouragement  to  mar  her  comfort,  even  if  now  and  then 
she  finds  her  carefully  planned  rules  requiring  some  little 
adjustment,  to  secure  a  smooth  and  easy  action.  Try,  and 
reject,  until  you  have  secured  a  plan  by  which  you,  the 
mistress,  can  best  manage  others,  or  yourself  perform  the 
work.  No  one  can  tell  you  by  what  rules  you  can  best  gov- 
ern your  domains.  Suggestions  may  be  given,  which  will  be 
of  great  service  in  enabling  you  to  arrive  at  the  desired 
results  in  the  most  successful  and  expeditious  manner;  but 
further  than  that,  the  worTc  to  do  is  yottrs,  and  not  anoth- 
er s.  Each  one  must  work  oiit  the  problem  of  what  is  best 
for  herself  individually,  with  what  aid  she  can  glean  from 
the  experience  of  others,  according  as  it  shall  be  congenial, 
or  adapted  to  her  owai  peculiar  way  of  working  and  her 
own  peculiar  position. 

Even  those  daughters  who  are  fresh  from  the  wise  instruc- 
tions of  a  mother,  who  led  them  with  her  through  a  daily 
round  of  cares  until  they  are  as  skillful  in  domestic  manage- 
ment as  she  is  herself,  will  not  find,  when  they  enter  the 
marriage  state,  the  duties  of  their  new  homes  exactly  like 
those  of  their  mother.  Many  things  may,  and  doubtless 
will,  compel  a  somewhat  different  administration,  although 
14 


314      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

the  fundamental  princii^les  will  be  still  the  same.  The  hus- 
hand's  position  may  demand  change  in  the  mode  of  pro- 
ceedings to  Avhichshe  has,  from  childhood,  been  accustomed. 
His  tastes  or  means  may  render  it  advisable  that  the  wife 
should  modify  or  enlarge  her  rules  for  the  performance  of 
domestic  duties.  The  desired  change  may,  from  necessity,  or 
from  whims,  which  for  permanent  happiness  she  Avill  be  wise 
to  humor,  be  so  abnipt  and  entire  as  to  require  almost  a  new 
mode  of  action  and  labor,  calling  for  much  deliberation  be- 
fore it  can  be  perfectly  satisfactory  ;  and  of  course  this  will  be 
almost  like  commencing  an  education  from  the  beginning. 

Different  homes  and  diverse  tastes  demand,  and  justly,  to 
be  regulated  on  somewhat  different  plans.  IN'ew  duties,  and 
new  modes  of  performing  them,  are  opened  to  the  young 
housekeeper,  however  efficient  she  may  have  been  in  all  do- 
mestic affairs  under  her  mother's  eye  ;  but  this  should  be  no 
reason  for  discouragement  or  self-reproach.  Put  the  mother 
in  the  daughter's  place,  and  she  might  find  it  equally  strange, 
and  no  easier  to  rearrange  her  code  of  laws  for  domestic 
labor,  only  so  far  as  age  and  longer  experience  has  taught 
her  more  wisdom  and  greater  facility  in  regulating  house- 
hold affairs.  But  whatever  the  style  or  position,  there  is  none, 
hoAveA^er  high  or  low,  that  is  not  improved  and  the  work 
simplified  by  systematic  arrangement.  Let  each  day  of  the 
week  have  its  OAvn  peculiar  work,  modified  or  varied,  of 
course,  by  changes  Avhich  cannot  be  foreseen,  ŌĆö  such  as  sick- 
ness, absence  of  part  of  the  family,  unexpected  company, 
invited  guests,  or  holidays. 

And  here  let  us  say,  it  is  desirable,  Avhen  you  invite  friends 
to  dinner  or  tea,  that  you  choose  such  days  as  are  the  least 
filled  Avith  work  Avhich  cannot  be  Avell  set  aside,  ŌĆö  such  as 
washing,  ironing,  etc.,  ŌĆö  so  that  you  may  take  time  for  en- 
tertaining your  guests,  Avithout  the  burden  of  feeling  that  you 
are  compelled  to  leaA^e  for  to-morroAV  the  Avork  that  should 


PLANNING   FOR  THE   WEEK.  315 

have  been  done  to-day,  and,  by  so  doing,  to  lay  up  for  your- 
self too  heavy  burdens  and  unsettle  the  regular  course  of  labor 
for  the  rest  of  the  week. 

We  do  not  propose  to  give  rules  for  any  one.  That  would 
be  quite  impossible,  as  so  much  depends  on  the  taste  of  the 
master  and  mistress,  the  number  of  the  family,  and  of  the 
servants  employed.  But  there  are  a  few  things  which,  in  our 
opinion,  will  make  the  work  easier,  and  increase  the  comfort 
of  all  concerned.  For  instance,  on  Saturday  all  the  clothes 
for  changes  should  be  laidf^ut,  so  that  the  Sabbath  may  find 
us  arrayed  in  spotless  garments.  And  this  being  done,  as  all 
the  soiled  clothes  are  ready,  it  would  seem  that  Monday  must, 
almost  of  necessity,  be  set  apart  as  the  established  ivashing- 
day.  Of  course,  if  one  has  a  laundry  distinct  from  the 
kitchen,  as  soon  as  the  washing  and  ironing  of  one  week  is 
finished,  the  range  wiU  be  cleaned  out,  ashes  brushed  ofi", 
kindling  laid,  and  floor  scrubbed,  all  for  the  next  week ; 
and  if  everything  is  tlius  in  order,  it  must  be  an  uncommonly 
large  family  if  the  washing  is  not  all  done,  clothes-lines  and 
pins  brought  in,  and,  in  winter,  coarse  clothes  sprinkled  and 
folded,  in  good  time  on  Monday  night.  This  should  be  ]\Ion- 
day's  work,  somewhat  modified,  perhaps,  according  to  the  help 
employed  in  this  department.  When  two  or  three  girls  are 
employed  in  one  house,  as  we  have  before  said,  we  do  not 
think  it  the  most  comfortable  way  for  the  cooh  to  take  charge 
of  the  washing.  Let  her  help,  if  necessary,  as  she  may  find 
time ;  but  if  she  first  performs  her  regular  duties,  the  family 
will  be  more  comfortable ;  and  if  the  second  girl  has  charge  of 
the  washing,  the  clothes  will,  or  should  be,  more  satisfactorily 
done  by  one  steady  hand.  Let  Tuesday  be  for  ironing. 
Wednesday  the  chamber-maid  and  laundress  will  need  for 
cleaning  the  laundry  and  halls,  wiping  off  finger-marks  from 
doors,  and  any  chamber- work  which  did  not  receive  particular 
attention  Monday  or  Tuesday.    The  cook  will  need  by  Wednes- 


316      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

day  to  clean  up  her  tins,  floors,  closets,  or  if  company  or  the 
family  require,  to  do  some  extra  cooking.  On  Thursday  the  sil- 
ver should  be  carefully  looked  over  and  jDolished  by  chamois- 
skin,  after  washing  in  hot  soapsuds,  or  with  whiting  if  any 
brown  spots  are  found.  Friday  is  the  best  day  for  sweeping, 
and  seeing  that  mattresses  and  bedsteads  are  free  from  dust ; 
which,  if  left  to  accumulate,  will  breed  moths  and  other  ver- 
min. Saturday  may  be  employed  in  cleaning  parlors,  wash- 
ing windows,  polishing  door-haudles,  bell-pulls,  and  stair-rods, 
and  a  thorough  oversight  of  the  h'ouse  generally. 

These  items  are  only  by  way  of  suggestions,  to  be  fiUed  up 
or  discarded  as  the  housekeeper's  judgment,  taste,  or  position 
may  deem  advisable.  We  only  claim  that,  having  once  ex- 
amined and  become  fully  persuaded  in  your  own  mind  what 
your  position  and  the  comfort  of  your  family  demand,  you 
should  settle  upon  some  well-considered  plan,  and  then  deter- 
mine to  carry  it  into  practice,  as  far  as  possible,  with  prompt- 
ness and  regularity.  Take  time  to  consider;  try,  and  try 
again ;  but  having  settled  what  is  best,  act  upon  it  without 
flinching. 


LXXIV. 

SHOPPING. 


"T"T"7"E  have  heard  from  ladies  remarks  like  the  following  : 
VV  "  Before  I  was  married,  and  cares  and  responsibil- 
ities became  more  and  more  exacting  every  year,  there  Avas 
nothing  I  used  to  enjoy  more  than  roaming  from  shop  to  shop, 
seeing  everything  that  was  to  be  seen,  but  without  the  re- 
sponsibility of  purchasing,  because  my  mother  always  at- 
tended to  that.  My  shopping  in  those  days  was  only  to 
gratify  curiosity.     But  noAV  it  must  be  done  in  earnest,  with- 


SHOPPING.  317 

out  shopping  for  sight-seeing  or  loitering, ŌĆö the  only  desirable 
part  of  the  business." 

Kow,  I  cannot  but  think  this  waste  of  time  and  gratifica- 
tion of  a  childish  curiosity  in  young  women  altogether  wrong. 
The  amount  of  "  shopping,"  as  it  is  called,  done  from  no  ne- 
cessity, but  only  to  while  away  the  time,  is  very  great,  par- 
ticularly by  young  ladies  who  have  no  intention  of  purchas- 
ing. While  there  are  books  to  be  read,  semng  to  be  done, 
mothers  to  be  helped,  and  their  burdens  lightened  by  their 
daughters'  loving  care,  and  painting,  drawing,  and  music  to 
be  practiced,  we  don't  understand  how  time  can  hang  heavy 
on  one's  hands.  Pleasant  walks  and  rides,  lectures,  concerts, 
and  picture-galleries,  can  surely  furnish  all  the  exercise  and 
recreation  that  is  needed  or  at  all  desirable,  and  will  be  much 
more  conducive  to  the  improvement  of  the  mind  and  strength- 
ening of  the  body  than  this  too  prevalent  custom  of  saunter- 
ing through  the  streets,  gazing  into  the  windows,  or  visiting 
the  stores,  looking  at  and  handling  everything  one  fancies, 
but  buying  nothing.  Many  evils  spring  from  this  absurd 
method  of  taJcing  exercise,  or  wasting  time.  There  can  be  no 
healthy  exercise  in  loitering  in  a  croAvded  and  perhaps  iU- 
lighted,  poorly  ventilated  store ;  for  capacious,  airy,  and  well- 
ventdated  establishments  are  not  common.  The  effect  of 
such  dissipation  on  the  mind  and  character  cannot  be  enno- 
bling. To  watch  and  criticise  the  people  who  pass,  to  remark 
on  their  dress,  manners,  and  pecuHarities,  is  almost  certain  to 
establish  an  unkind,  censorious  habit,  and,  in  the  end,  make 
those  who  practice  it  confirmed  gossips, ŌĆö the  most  unlovable 
and  unsafe  of  all  characters.  A  love  of  dress ;  a  desire  to  imi- 
tate or  surpass  those  who  are  the  most  extravagant  in  their 
outlays ;  an  envious  disposition ;  dissatisfaction  with  their 
own  condition  and  the  income  allowed  for  their  dress  ;  long- 
ing to  cast  aside  good  clothes  and  secure  the  newest  and  most 
stylish,  every  time  the  shopping  farce  is  performed,  ŌĆö  are 


318      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

some  of  the  evils  which,  it  is  to  be  feared,  will  grow  out  of 
this  propensity ;  and  added  to  this,  another  stiU  more  to  be 
deprecated,  ŌĆö  the  selfish  disregard  for  the  feelings  and  inter- 
ests of  others. 

It  is  painful  to  observe  with  what  recklessness  our  young 
ladies  will  sit  at  a  counter  and  call  for  one  j^iece  of  goods  after 
another,  until  the  shelves  before  them  are  almost  entirely 
stripped,  ŌĆö  tossing  one  article  here  and  another  there,  throw- 
ing heavy  goods  upon  delicate  articles,  while  the  perplexed 
clerk  endeaA''ors  to  hide  his  anxiety,  and  shield  his  Avares  from 
harm,  in  the  most  gentlemanly  and  unobtrusive  manner  ;  but 
his  politeness  and  delicacy  are  wasted,  for  this  class  of  shop- 
pers care  little  for  the  discomfort  of  a  clerk. 

In  this  manner  they  flit  from  counter  to  counter,  wast- 
ing not  only  their  own  time,  but  that  of  the  employes  in 
the  store,  and  exciting  false  hopes  of  a  good  sale,  and  then, 
without  a  word  of  apology  for  the  trouble  they  have  given, 
leave  that  store  to  go  through  the  same  folly  at  other  estab- 
lishments. 

A  few  days  since  we  witnessed  a  most  provoking  display 
of  this  manner  of  wasting  time,  and  by  no  means  an  uncom- 
mon occurrence.  All  the  room  for  some  distance  on  one  side 
of  the  store,  and  two  or  tliree  of  the  clerks,  were  monopoHzed 
by  a  party  of  young  girls,  ŌĆö  we  fear  they  thought  themselves 
entitled  to  be  addressed  as  young  ladies.  The  earnestness 
with  which  they  called  for  one  class  of  goods  after  another 
warranted  the  attendants  in  anticipating  a  large  sale  ; 
but  when  woolens,  silks,  linens,  ribbons,  and  laces  were 
heaped  around  them  in  great  abundance,  and  many  really 
earnest  purchasers  had  been  kept  long  Avaiting  for  attendance, 
or,  not  having  time,  had  been  obliged  to  go  elsewhere,  these 
girls  carelessly  rose  and  turned  to  leave. 

"  I  am  sorry  we  can  show  you  nothing  satisfactory,"  cour- 
teously remarked  one  of  the  clerks. 


SHOPPING.  319 

"  0,  we  did  n't  come  in  to  buy,  ŌĆö  only  to  look  around," 
replied  the  leader  of  this  iU-mannered  party,  with  a  scornful 
air ;  and  an  absurd,  silly  giggle  went  through  the  party  as 
they  left  the  store,  evidently  satisfied  that  they  had  had  a 
good  time  and  played  off  a  smart  joke  on  the  clerks. 

The  expression  of  disappointment  suddenly  changed  to  con- 
tempt, visible  among  the  young  men  who  had  so  politely 
waited  upon  those  thoughtless  girls,  was  very  significant  of 
their  estimate  of  such  characters.  If  their  mothers  could 
have  seen  the  whole  performance,  and,  giving  each  a  good 
shaking,  sent  them  home  to  learn  good  manners,  and  a  proper 
use  of  time  by  a  term  of  labor  in  the  kitchen,  we  should  have 
been  thankful. 

But  in  the  case  of  the  "mother  and  hoiisekeeper,"  who  in- 
quires hoAv  real,  earnest,  practical  shopping  may  be  disarmed 
of  its  terrors,  and  made  easy  and  simple,  we  would  say  there 
is  nothing  easier  if  you  begin  right.  Before  leaving  home  on 
a  shopping  expedition,  be  "  fully  persuaded  in  your  own 
mind  "  that  you  know  just  what  you  want,  what  you  must 
have,  and  how  much  you  are  willing  and  can  afford  to  pay  for 
wliat  you  desire  to  purchase.  Make  out  a  plain  list  that  you 
can  understand  at  a  glance,  and  when  you  enter  the  store  call 
first  for  the  must-haves,  examine  the  quality  and  pattern, 
and  ascertain  if  the  price  is  such  as  to  justify  you  in  buying. 
Then,  if  satisfied  on  those  points,  look  at  various  patterns  of 
the  same  fabric  and  price,  and  select  the  one  that  pleases  you 
the  most  perfectly,  and,  naming  the  quantity  and  place  to 
send,  pass  on  to  other  departments.  Don't  allow  your  atten- 
tion to  wander  to  anything  but  the  article  under  considera- 
tion, until  you  have  decided  that  item.  If  it  is  a  dress,  ex- 
amine and  decide  before  looking  at  sheeting  or  table-linen  or 
anything  else.  That  settled,  pass  on  to  the  next  topic  on 
your  list,  and  so  continue  until  you  have  finished  the  work 
you  had  arranged  to  do.     Then,  if  you  have  a  little  leisure. 


320      MOTHEELY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

you  can  look  about  you  at  the  various  articles  displayed,  grati- 
fying your  love  of  fine  things,  and  gaining  an  insight  into 
the  quality  and  price  of  articles  you  may  need  in  time  ;  only 
take  care  that  when  your  purchases  are  finished,  you  do  not 
interfere  with  other  purchasers,  or  engross  the  time  of  busy 
clerks  unduly.  In  making  out  a  list,  classify  the  articles 
you  are  intending  to  buy,  putting  groceries,  crockery,  books, 
dry  goods,  etc.,  each  by  themselves,  and  begin  at  the  nearest 
place.  By  this  method  you  will  save  yourself  much  time 
and  fatigue. 

These  are  very  simple  rules  ;  but  try  them  and  see  if  shop- 
ping is  any  longer  a  duty  to  be  "  dreaded." 


LXXV. 

DUSTING. 


AMOl!^G  the  many  httle  things  a  good  housekeeper 
should  vigilantly  watch  over,  while  trying- to  teach 
a  child  or  inexperienced  girl,  careful  and  thorough  dusting 
is  one  of  the  most  prominent.  It  is  not  alone  those  who  are 
confessedly  ignorant  that  require  this  supervision,  but  one 
half  of  all  the  hired  help  we  ever  saw  have  never  been  trained 
to  do  that  kind  of  labor  perfectly.  They  are  accustomed  to 
look  at  it  as  being  of  less  importance,  and  more  easily  shghted 
without  attracting  notice  and  subjecting  themselves  to  re- 
buke, than  other  portion  of  their  duties.  They  may  be  very 
capable  in  many  other  parts  of  the  work  allotted  to  them, 
yet  lamentably  fail  when  they  undertake  to  dust  a  room.  A 
parlor-  or  chamber-maid  may  begin  her  Avork  properly.  With 
broom,  whisk,  duster,  and  dust-pan,  with  short  sleeves,  a 
clean  handkerchief  or  cap  over  the  head  to  protect  the  hair 


DUSTING.  321 

from  dust,  she  commences  to  clean  and  "  put  the  room  to 
rights  "  in  the  most  approved  manner.  Books,  papers,  works 
of  art,  ornaments,  or  furnitiu^e  ŌĆö  everytliing  movable  ŌĆö  are 
carried  into  the  next  room  if  convenient,  or  if  not,  neatly 
covered  from  the  dust,  which  must  necessarily  be  raised  while 
sweeping ;  thus  leaving  the  floor  as  nearly  vacant  as  possi- 
ble, to  facilitate  that  operation. 

But,  if  superintending  this  work  done  by  a  new  girl,  you 
will  notice  that,  however  methodical  in  aU  else  pertaining  to 
her  work,  she  does  not  stop  to  clean,  carefully  dust,  and 
polish  each  article,  as  she  takes  it  from  the  room,  and  by  so 
doing  have  them  all  ready  to  set  back  again,  with  no  delay, 
when  the  room  is  well  swept  and  dusted.  She  seems  to  have 
no  idea  that  this  Avill  simplify  her  work,  save  time  and  extra 
handling,  and,  as  often  happens,  in  case  of  any  necessity 
for  unusual  haste  in  finishing  the  work,  be  a  great  conven- 
ience. But,  seeing  how  like  a  good  worker  the  girl  takes 
hold  of  the  other  portions  of  her  labor,  you  perhaps  think  it 
not  best  to  embarrass  her  by  too  many  criticisms  at  first, 
having  no  fear  but  at  the  close  of  the  sweeping  the  dusting 
will  be  well  done  ;  called  away  by  other  duties,  you  leave  her 
to  finish,  on  the  whole  well  pleased,  and  hopeful  that  you 
have  secured  one  who  will  prove  faithful  and  reliable,  re- 
lieving you  from  constant  watchfulness  in  her  department. 

On  your  return,  the  first  glance  atjthe  room  confirms  your 
hopes,  but  by  a  second  look  your  dream  of  peace  grows 
shadowy.  The  room  is  nicely  swept,  the  furniture  placed 
more  nearly  in  the  proper  position  than,  for  a  first  trial,  you 
had  expected ;  but  there  the  charm  vanishes.  Such  dust- 
ing !  It  must  have  been  attempted  ;  for  you  see  the  mark 
of  the  dusting-cloth,  as  if  hastily  passed  over,  or  brushed 
across  the  plain  surfaces  of  tables,  chairs,  etc.,  but  looking 
more  as  if  flies  or  spiders  had  run  races  over  them,  than  like 
the  efforts  of  a  human  hand  to  dust  the  room.  Here  and 
14*  u 


322      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

there  some  one  or  two  articles  have  iDeen  tolerably  polished, 
but  wherever  there  is  any  elaborate  carving,  intricate  mold- 
ing, or  dainty  piece  of  statuary,  requiring  extra  care,  the 
dust  has  settled,  aud  lies  unmolested  in  ugly  masses,  defacing 
or  concealing  all  the  beauty. 

You  summon  the  girl,  trying  all  the  time  to  school  your 
heart  and  voice  to  patience.  You  show  her  the  dust,  and, 
taking  the  work  into  yon.r  own  hands,  proceed  to  give  her 
practical  demonstration  of  how  the  work  can  and  must  be 
done.  As  you  pass  from  one  article  to  another,  you  explain 
the  injury  to  furniture  and  ornaments  which  will  follow 
careless  dusting.  Point  out  how  speedily  dust  hides  in  the 
moldings  and  carvings,  and  show  her  how  to  gain  access  to 
all  the  intricate  and  troublesome  ornamental  Avork.  As  you 
proceed  she  sees  hoAV  easily  and  perfectly  it  can  be  done ; 
but  do  not  flatter  yourself  that  this  lesson,  so  thoroughly  and 
plainly  given,  will  relieve  you  from  the  responsibility  of 
following  up  your  chamber-maid  Avith  continued  Avatchful- 
ness  and  reminders.  Be  prepared  to  repeat  this  lesson  every 
week,  and  at  the  end  of  months  find  the  repetition  still 
necessary.  If  you  do  not  find  this  so,  you  may  thank  God 
and  take  courage,  for  you  have  secured  a  treasure  Avhich  you 
will  do  Avell  to  cherish. 

It  is  because  our  servants  are  so  inclined  to  slight  this 
seemingly  small,  but  really  A^ery  important  part  of  domestic 
economy,  that  we  think  mothers  should  begin  early  to  teach 
their  little  daughters  how  to  dust  a  room,  and  poUsh,  by 
thorough  dusting,  all  the  furniture  and  articles  of  beauty. 
Let  them  take  first  lessons  in  learning  to  keep  their  play- 
room and  playthings  free  from  dust,  and  the  knowledge  thus 
gained  in  j^lay  will  soon  be  of  much  practical  and  valuable 
assistance  to  their  mothers.  We  know  there  are  some  chil- 
dren naturally  careless  and  flighty,  Avhile  others  are  born 
neat  and  methodical.     This  difference  is  very  observable  in 


A  CHAPTER  ON   SOUPS.  323 

children  of  the  same  family,  trained  by  the  same  mother, 
with  equal  care  ;  and  mothers  soon  understand  that  one  child 
must  be  looked  after,  in  every  step  of  her  way  toward  be- 
coming a  practical,  useful,  helpful  daughter  and  woman, 
more  than  the  other.  Such  children  draw  very  heavily  on 
their  mother's  strength,  patience,  and  hopefuhiess ;  but  if 
the  child  is  of  an  affectionate  disposition,  in  the  end  love  and 
experience  will  conquer. 

There  is  great  need  that  mothers  be  not  discouraged  in 
their  endeavors  to  teach  their  daughters  all  that  pertains  to 
practical  domestic  economy ;  for,  if  we  are  not  greatly  mis- 
taken, the  time  is  not  far  off  when  we  shall  all  feel  the 
necessity  of  looking  to  our  daughters  to  assist  us  in  the  nicer 
parts  of  housework,  if  we  would  have  comfortable,  happy 
homes  ;  relying  on  servants  only  for  the  coarser,  harder  parts 
that  would  tax  our  strength  too  severely,  or  engross  our  time 
too  much,  to  leave  any  for  social  life  or  intellectual  improve- 
ment. These  must  receive  their  full  share  of  our  attention ; 
but  the  home  cares  have  equal  claims.  Let  there  be  an 
equal  distribution,  giving  to  each  her  portion  in  due  season, 
and  there  will  be  less  waste  and  extravagance,  and  lighter 
hearts  and  happier  homes. 


LXXVI. 

A  CHAPTER  ON   SOUPS. 

HESITATIOJ^  in  taking  the  first  steps  in  any  new  en- 
terprise or  new  work  is  very  common.  "With  some 
it  springs  from  great  caution ;  with  others,  from  lack  of  con- 
fidence in  their  own  ability.  They  magnify  troubles  which 
may  arise,  and  imagine  all  manner  of  difficulties,  until  A^ery 


324      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

small  and  easy  fluties  are  clothed,  in  a  mystery  which  they 
shrink  from  solving. 

In  working,  a  novice,  if  at  all  timid  or  lacking  self-reli- 
ance, often  keeps  herself  in  a  constant  state  of  alarm  lest  she 
make  some  great  mistake,  and,  strange  as  it  may  seem,  few 
things  in  the  whole  round  of  cooking-experiments  assume  a 
more  formidable  aspect  than  the  simple  act  of  making  a 
soup.  It  is  a  mystery  which  grows  more  uncanny  the 
longer  it  is  looked  at  from  a  distance ;  but  lay  your  hand 
upon  it,  and  you  will  soon  learn  that  you  have  been  fright- 
ened at  a  shadow. 

There  are  several  things  preliminary  to  making  soup 
which  are  quite  essential.  First  of  all,  it  is  desirable, 
though  not  absolutely  indispensable,  that  you  provide  your- 
self with  the  best  and  most  convenient  utensils. 

A  stock-pot  is  usually  a  large,  round  kettle,  with  a  closely 
fitting  cover,  into  which  the  meat  or  bones  and  odd  bits 
for  preparing  the  stock  or  broth  for  soups  are  put,  to  be 
cooked.     It  is  generally  made  of  iron  or  copper. 

A  soup-digester  is  a  kind  of  stock-pot  made  wholly  of 
iron;  The  lid  fits  closely  into  a  groove  in  the  top  of  the 
digester,  with  a  projecting  piece  which,  when  turned  till  it 
meets  the  socket  or  notch  on  each  side  of  the  groove,  acts 
like  a  lock,  holding  the  lid  on  tightly.  In  that  respect  it  is 
far  better  than  the  stock-pot,  for  nothing  can  boil  over  in  the 
digester,  and  no  steam  escapes  except  through  the  valve  at 
the  top  of  the  cover.  They  are  to  be  obtained  at  almost 
all  hardware  stores,  and  are  of  all  sizes,  from  three  quarts 
to  ten  gallons. 

ISText,  having  provided  the  utensils,  good  "  stock  "  of  va- 
rious kinds  should  be  kept  constantly  on  hand,  regulating 
the  qtiantity  prepared  at  one  time  by  the  state  of  the 
weather  and  the  size  of  your  family.  In  summer,  in  a  cool 
cellar,   it  will  keep,  by  frequent  scalding,  several  days.     In 


A   CHAPTER  ON   SOUPS.  325 

winter  it  is  safe  to  keep  it  much  longer,  only,  like  every- 
thing else,  it  requires  to  be  looked  after  carefully.  Few- 
soups  can  be  of  the  best  quality  without  a  strong  stock  to 
start  with.  Liebig's  Extracts  of  Meat  answers  very  well 
for  a  substitute,  but  is  better  used  in  connection  with  the 
stock. 

Every  bit  of  meat  w' hich  is  left  over,  that  cannot  be  satis- 
factorily employed  otherwise,  should  go  at  once  into  the 
stock-pot  or  digester.  Bones,  after  carving  from  them  all  the 
meat  that  can  be  advantageously  secured,  must  be  well 
cracked  and  added  to  the  other  pieces.  The  vessel  should 
be  always  near,  ready  to  receive  any  stray  morsel.  When 
enough  is  collected  to  make  a  good  quantity  of  stock,  put 
cold  water  to  the  pieces ;  for  the  juices,  which  are  what  you 
desire  to  obtain,  are  much  more  readily  extracted  in  cold 
water  than  in  hot.  On  the  contrary,  meats  that  are  to  be 
boiled  for  table  use  should  always  be  put  into  boiling  water, 
which  closes  the  outer  surfaces  instantly,  thus  retaining  the 
juices. 

When  the  water  is  added,  set  the  digester  over  a  moderate 
fire,  where  the  contents  will  not  boil  rapidly,  only  simmer. 
After  it  begins  to  boil,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Opinions  dif- 
fer as  to  the  length  of  time  needed  in  the  preparation  of 
good  stock ;  but  it  is  generally  allowed  to  simmer  most  of 
the  day,  which  is  too  long,  and  it  thereby  becomes  muddy. 
We  think  a  few  hours'  boiling  will  extract  all  the  juice,  and 
make  better  stock  than  longer.  Eemember  that  stock  should 
have  more  salt,  pepper,  and  seasoning  than  would  be  desir- 
able in  the  soup  to  be  made  from  it. 

When  done,  strain  it  into  a  large  stone  pot,  kept  for  that 
purpose  exclusively,  and  cover  closely  till  morning,  when 
the  fat  will  all  rise  to  the  top  and  harden,  and  should  then 
be  removed.  Xever  allow  stock  to  remain  in  the  stock- pot  or 
digester  overnight ;    for,  even  when   there  is  no  copper  to 


326      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

render  it  unsafe,  it  will  assuredly  taste  of  the  iron,  and  the 
flavor  be  very  greatly  injured  by  it. 

If  you  have  no  bones  or  bits  of  meat  on  hand  to  make 
stock  with,  a  knuckle  of  beef  or  veal  can  be  procured  with 
little  expense ;  or,  if  a  rich  soup  is  desired,  several  kinds  of 
meat  should  be  mixed.  For  instance  :  Take  four  pounds  of 
the  shin  of  beef,  four  pounds  of  the  knuckle  of  veal,  and  a 
half-pound  of  good  lean  ham  ŌĆö  any  scraps  of  poultry, 
necks,  wings,  etc.  ŌĆö  that  may  chance  to  be  unused.  Three 
onions,  three  carrots,  one  head  of  celery,  a  few  chopped 
mushrooms,  two  or  three  fresh  tomatoes,  or  Avhat  Avould  be 
equal  to  them  in  canned  tomatoes,  if  they  can  be  obtained  ; 
just  a  shake  of  savory  herbs  and  parsley,  and,  in  cold  Aveather, 
three  turnips.  In  warm  weather  turnips  will  cause  the  stock 
to  ferment.  Add  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  salt,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  sugar,  twelve  white  pepper-corns,  six  cloves,  three 
small  bits  of  mace,  and  four  quarts  of  water.  Line  the 
nicely  cleaned  digester,  after  well  buttering  it,  with  the  ham 
cut  in  thin,  broad  slices  carefully  trimmed  from  all  the  outer 
f;it  that  may  taste  too  strong  of  the  smoke,  or  which  is  at  all 
rusty.  Then  cut  all  the  meat  from  the  beef  and  veal  into 
about  three-inch  pieces,  and  lay  them  over  the  ham.  Set  it 
on  the  stove,  and  when  all  is  delicately  and  equally  broAvned, 
put  in  the  beef  and  veal  bones,  well  cracked,  the  bits  of 
poultry-trimmings,  and  pour  over  aU  four  quarts  of  cold 
water.  When  it  comes  to  the  boihng-point,  bring  to  the 
side  of  the  stove  or  range,  skim  very  carefully,  adding  now 
and  then  a  little  cold  water,  to  stop  rapid  boiling.  Let  it 
simmer  in  this  Avay  till  it  is  quite  clear,  and  then  put  in  all 
the  vegetables  and  other  ingredients,  and  keep  it  simmering 
over  the  stove  five  hours.  Do  not  let  it  at  any  time  come  to 
a  brisk  boil,  as  that  will  waste  the  stock  and  injure  the  color. 

When  done,  strain  through  a  fine  hair-sieve  or  cloth  into 
a  large  stone  stock-jar,  and  cover  up  carefully  till  needed. 


A  CHAPTER   ON   SOUPS.  327 

Prepared  in  this  way,  a  stock  will  keep  in  cool  weather  a 
long  time,  if  kept  covered  closely  from  the  air,  by  occasion- 
ally scalding,  and  is  always  on  hand  when  you  wish  a  rich 
soup.  While  it  is  cooking,  in  adding  water  to  stop  boiling, 
be  sure  that  you  add  enough  to  supply  that  wasted  in  steam, 
so  that  when  done  and  strained  you  will  have  four  quarts 
of  liquid.  One  quart  will  be  sufficient  for  the  stock  for 
four  rich  soups. 

A  less  rich  stock  may  be  ob;.ained  by  using  less  meat  and 
seasoning,  or  by  carefully  saving  the  water  in  which  fresh 
meat  or  fowls  have  been  boiled,  adding  vegetables  and  sea- 
soning to  suit  yourself.  Let  it  simmer  gently  for  six  hours, 
skimming  it  carefully,  and  then  strain  and  set  aside  for  use. 

White  stock,  for  white  soup,  is  made  like  the  rich  stock ; 
only,  instead  of  browning  the  meat  before  adding  any 
water,  you  should  rub  the  digester  with  butter,  lay  in  the 
meat,  moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  simmer  slowly, 
until  the  gravy  begins  to  flow  ;  then  add  five  quarts  of  cold 
water  and  such  vegetables  and  seasoning  as  you  prefer,  or 
the  same  as  for  rich  stock,  and  let  all  simmer  five  hours. 
When  stronger  stock  is  required,  double  the  quantity  of  veal, 
or  put  in  an  old  fowl.  The  liquor  in  which  a  young  turkey 
has  been  boiled  is  excellent  for  white  stocks  or  soups. 

Broivning  for  soups  is  made  with  two  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water.  Put  the  sugar  in  a  smooth, 
clean  saucepan  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  begins  to  melt ;  keep 
it  in  motion  with  a  wooden  spoon  all  the  time  until  it  be- 
comes black,  when  the  water  should  be  added.  Let  it  dis- 
solve in  the  water,  then  cork  closely,  and  use  only  a  few 
drops  when  required.  In  France  an  onion  is  burnt  to  put 
with  the  browning  ;  but  all  browning,  although  it  adds 
somewhat  to  the  looks  of  some  kinds  of  soups,  does  not  often 
improve  the  flavor. 

To  clarify  stocks   or  soups  which  are  sometimes  a  little 


328      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG    HOUSEKEEPERS. 

muddy,  carefully  separate  the  whites  of  eggs  from  the  yelks, 
and  use  the  whites  to  clear  the  soup.  One  egg  to  every 
quart  of  stock  or  soup  to  be  clarified.  Beat  well  together, 
with  one  fourth  of  a  j)int  of  Abater  to  every  egg,  and,  still 
beating,  add  gradually  to  the  stock,  which  should  be  just 
Avarm.  Then  place  it  over  the  fire,  and  Avhen  it  boils  skim 
thoroughly,  whisk  it  Avell,  and  draw  the  kettle  to  the  side 
of  the  stove,  to  let  it  settle  till  the  whites  of  the  eggs  become 
separated  from  the  soup  ;  then  strain  through  a  fine  cloth, 
and,  if  rightly  done,  the  stock  or  soup  Avill  be  clear. 

Thus,  as  will  be  readily  understood,  Ave  have  given  most 
important  preliminary  steps  toward  making  soup.  In  the 
next  article  Ave  give  directions  for  making  several  kinds  of 
soups,  and  thereby  answer  several  requests  in  one  chapter. 


LXXVII. 

MOEE  ABOUT  SOUPS. 

MANY  suppose  they  can  obtain  just  as  good  soup  by 
preparing  the  whole  between  breakfast  and  dinner, 
claiming  that  the  idea  of  keeping  "  stock  "  on  hand  is  a  fool- 
ish one,  and  an  increase  of  the  cares  and  labors  of  proAdding. 
"We  think  this  is  a  mistake,  springing  from  ignorance  in  some 
cases,  in  others  from  the  fact  that  the  objectors  have  ncA^er 
tried  what  seems  to  us  the  better  way.  It  is  certainly  the 
most  economical,  and  on  trial  we  are  sure  Avill  be  found  a 
saving  of  time  and  labor,  instead  of  an  additional  tax. 

By  allowing  the  material  for  stock  to  simmer  sloAvly,  one 
obtains  the  foundation  for  the  strongest  and  best  flavored 
soup  Avhich  can  be  made  from  flesh.  Whereas,  if  the  meat 
is  taken  in  the  morning,  and  prepared  for  dinner  the  same 


MORE  ABOUT  SOUPS.  329 

day,  one  must  hasten  matters,  and  cannot  take  time  to  sepa- 
rate the  meat  in  small  pieces,  or  have  a  soup  free  from  muddy 
streaks  and  a  strong,  disagreeable  flavor. 

Liebig  objects  to  cooking  the  stock  for  any  great  length  of 
time,  because  he  assumes,  and  justly,  that  the  albumen  and 
fibrin  -which,  after  protracted  cooking,  will  rise  hard  and 
bony,  cannot  be  so  thoroughly  separated  as  not  to  leave  some 
disagreeable  flavor,  and  take  away  much  of  the  real  nutriment 
of  the  soup.  He  says  if  we  take  one  pound  of  beef  free 
from  fat,  and  separate  it  from  the  bones  finely,  as  for  mince- 
meat or  sausages  ;  then  mix  it  uniformly  in  its  own  Aveight 
of  cold  water,  heat  it  slowly  to  a  boiling  point,  and  allow  the 
liquid  to  boil  briskly  for  only  a  few  minutes  ;  then  strain 
through  a  towel  to  free  it  from  the  coagulated  albumen  and 
flbrin  which  will  be  mixed  with  it,  we  can,  by  this  short 
boiHng,  secure  an  equal  weight  of  the  most  aromatic  soup  or 
beaf-tea,  of  such  strength  as  cannot  be  obtained,  even  by 
boiling  for  hours,  from  a  solid  piece  of  flesh.  Youmans  says, 
by  long  boiling  the  rich  part  of  the  meat  extracted  by  the 
cold  water  coagulates  and  becomes  insoluble,  instead  of  re- 
maining dissolved  in  the  soup,  as  it  should  do,  in  order  to 
secure  the  most  highly  nutritious  substance  of  the  meat.  A 
piece  of  flesh  put  into  boiling  water  undivided  is  in  the  most 
unfavorable  condition  possible  for  making  good  soup.  It  is 
customary  to  protract  the  boiling,  because  it  is  supposed  to 
thicken  and  enrich  the  soup. 

We  have  no  doubt,  if  the  mistress  could  oversee  the  whole 
process,  that  a  better  soup  would  be  obtained  by  less  than 
the  four  or  five  hours'  cooking  which  we  recommended  in  our 
last  article  for  stock.  But  if  she  is  obliged  to  commit  the 
preparing  of  stock  or  soups  to  willing  but  careless  hands,  who 
half  the  time  do  not  cut  the  meat  up  fine  or  crack  the  bones, 
a  longer  time  is  necessary  to  extract  the  full  flavor,  which 
will  not  then  be  as  pure. 


330      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

What  are  called  clear  soups  should  be  of  a  light  straw 
color,  and  not  too  strongly  flavored  with  the  meat. 

White,  or  thick  soiq)s  must  only  be  thick  enough  to  adhere 
slightly  to  the  spoon  when  hot. 

Puree  consists  of  vegetables  or  meat  reduced  to  a  very- 
smooth  pulp,  and  then  mixed  with  enough  stock  to  make  a 
thick  soup  like  most  of  the  bean  or  pea  soups. 

One  of  the  most  generally  palatable  soups  is  the  tzirtle  or 
black  bean  sou^^,  with  rich  beef  stock  for  the  foundation. 

Soak  a  pint  and  a  half  of  the  beans  overnight  in  plenty 
of  lukewarm  water.  In  the  morning  drain  off  all  the  water 
and  cover  with  fresh  cold  water ;  see  that  your  soup-digester 
is  perfectly  cleaned,  and  three  quarts  of  beef  stock  put  in  it, 
then  set  it  over  the  fire.  (Of  course  you  never  allow  your 
digester  or  soup- pot  to  be  put  away  without  being  thoroughly 
cleaned ;  but  sometimes  girls  have  been  known  to  forget  or 
make  a  mistake ;  and  it  is  best  for  many  reasons  that  all  uten- 
sils should  be  examined  thoroughly,  rinsed  with  hot  water, 
and  wiped  dry  each  time  you  take  them  out  for  use,  if 
only  to  remove  what  dust  may  settle  on  them  while  in  the 
closet.) 

As  soon  as  your  kettle  is  in  order  and  the  stock  in  it, 
drain  off  the  water  from  the  beans ;  put  them  into  the  stock 
and  set  at  once  over  the  fire  where  it  will  come  to  a  boil 
slowly.  As  soon  as  that  takes  place,  set  it  a  little  one  side, 
and  it  will  simmer,  not  quite  boil,  till  time  for  dinner.  It 
Avill  take  some  four  or  five  hours  to  make  the  beans  perfectly 
tender.  Half  an  hour  before  straining,  add  a  teacupful  of 
tomato  catsup  and  half  a  pint  of  canned  tomatoes  or  six  fresh 
ones.  Let  it  cook  a  little  more  briskly  for  a  half-hour,  then 
rub  through  a  coarse  sieve  or  colander,  and  serve  hot.  In 
preparing  stock  for  this  soup,  the  savory  herbs  and  mush- 
rooms may  be  omitted,  also  the  tomatoes,  as  it  is  better  to 
add  them  just  before  the  beans  are  done,  and  strain  aU  to- 


MORE  ABOUT  SOUPS.  331 

gether.  Some  like  to  sc[ueeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice 
into  soup  when  in  their  plates,  and  it  is  well  to  have  a 
quarter  of  a  lemon  put  on  a  small  saucer  or  cup-plate 
by  very  one  at  the  table,  so  that  they  can  add  it  if  agree- 
able. 

An  excellent  heef  soiq)  can  be  made  from  the  bones  left 
from  a  roast.  Cut  the  bones  apart,  and  crack  them  to  pieces 
with  a  broad  hatchet  kept  for  that  purpose  only,  as  the  good 
husband  may  object  to  having  his  carefully  kept  hatchet  used 
by  "  women  folks,"  and  you  may  be  equally  unwilling  to 
take  articles  that  have  been  used  you  know  not  for  wliat. 
Cover  the  bones  with  cold  water,  and  set  on  the  range  where 
they  will  simmer,  not  boil,  between  tliree  and  four  hours. 
When  the  meat  is  so  tender  as  to  slip  easily  from  the  bones, 
scrape  it  all  off  and  set  it  aside ;  put  the  stock  thus  made  in 
a  stone  pot  and  cover  closely,  after  it  is  cold.  We  should 
have  said  in  former  directions  that  stock  must  not  be  covered 
up  till  cold,  then  closed  carefully.  The  next  day  remove 
every  particle  of  the  fat ;  warm  the  stock  enough  to  strain 
it ;  cut  up  one  onion  (if  you  and  your  family  like  them),  two 
or  three  potatoes,  one  turnip,  a  few  bits  of  cauliflower  or  cab- 
bage, if  desired,  and  two  carrots.  Put  these  in  the  stock, 
adding,  if  you  like,  a  half-pint  of  rich  stock  ;  add  pepper 
and  salt  to  your  liking,  half  a  teacvTpful  of  tomato  catsup,  a 
table-spoonful  of  rice  washed  clean,  or  "  star "  macaroni. 
Boil  one  hour,  and  dish  without  a  second  straining.  Of 
course  all  these  seasonings  and  vegetables  must  be  varied  or 
modified  to  suit  the  special  tastes  of  different  families. 

The  meat  cut  from  the  bone  may  be  made  into  nice 
"  force-meat  balls,"  and  put  into  the  soup  when  dished  for 
the  table.  To  make  these  balls,  rub  the  meat  smooth  in  a 
marble  mortar.  If  very  dry,  moisten  with  a  spoonful  of  rich 
stock.  "\ATien  smooth,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little 
thyme,  summer    savory,  and  green    parsley   chopped  fine. 


332      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Beat  one  egg  light  and  stir  in,  thickening  the  whole  with 
cracker  crumbs,  enough  to  roll  into  small  balls  the  size  of  a 
large  walnut,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard,  or  place  on  a  dish  and 
bake  a  clear,  even  brown,  and  put  into  the  soup  the  last 
thing  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Julienne  soup  is  among  those  most  used  at  hotels  and  eating- 
houses.  Put  half  a  spoonful  of  butter  into  the  soup-kettle  ; 
slice  in  two  onions,  and  fry  to  a  clear  brown,  taking  care  not 
to  scorch  them ;  then  add  three  quarts  of  good  stock,  two 
small  turnips  and  two  carrots  chopped  small.  Let  this  boil 
gently  one  hour,  and  then  add  a  pint  of  green  peas,  freshly 
gathered,  and  the  same  of  young  and  tender  string-beans,  a 
little  mace,  salt  and  pepper  as  needed,  and  a  single  stock  of 
celery  chopped  fine.  Too  much  celery  gives  a  bitter  taste  to 
soup.  Boil  two  hours  more ;  then  rub  a  table-spoonful  of 
butter,  with  the  same  amount  of  flour,  and  stir  gradually  into 
the  soup.     Boil  a  few  minutes  and  dish. 

A  good  vermicelli  soup  with  stock  made  from  a  shin  of 
veal,  boiled  in  three  quarts  of  water,  can  be  prepared  "\vith 
little  trouble.  The  stock  must  be  skimmed  carefidly,  and, 
this  done,  put  in  one  whole  turnip,  one  carrot,  and  one 
onion  ;  none  of  these  should  be  cut  up.  Boil  three  hours  ; 
add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
vermicelli  after  the  three  hours'  boiling,  and  let  it  boil  gen- 
tly one  hour  more,  then  take  out  the  bone  and  vegetables 
and  serve.  If  the  stock  boils  away  too  much,  add  a  little 
Avater. 


TESTING  CHARACTER.  333 

LXXVIII. 

TESTING  CHARACTER. 

NOTHING  so  completely  unmasks  all  the  peculiarities 
of  each  individual,  showing  bright  and  noble  traits 
most  clearly,  and  casting  deeper  shadows  on  aU  that  is  weak, 
disagreeable,  and  unlovely,  as  being  shut  up  in  a  steamer  or  in 
cars  for  days  together,  acquiring  an  intimacy  in  one  week  far 
more  familiar  than  would  have  been  formed  in  a  year  of  ordi- 
nary intercourse.  Nowhere  are  selfishness,  irritability,  and 
vanity  so  quickly  detected  ;  nowhere  are  such  opportunities  to 
manifest  patience,  self-abnegation,  and  all  sweet  and  gentle 
qualities,  in  the  most  forcible  and  attractive  manner,  as  in 
this  phase  of  social  life.  You  may  call  daily,  or  spend 
weeks  with  people  in  their  own  homes,  and  never  imagine 
that  fierce  ambition,  weak  and  silly  vanity,  petty  jealousy, 
or  a  harsh  and  bitter  temper  are  smoldering  where  all  appears 
so  cheerful  and  quiet,  ready  to  be  fanned  into  flames  by  the 
first  annoyance  beyond  their  power  to  repel.  While  no 
shadows  fall  or  clouds  obscure  their  sky,  how  pleasantly 
the  moments  pass  by  !  Smiles  and  gentleness  meet  you  at 
every  step.  To  secure  your  comfort  and  pleasure  is  their 
delight ;  to  dispense  the  hospitality  of  their  homes  grace- 
fully and  with  a  free  hand  does  them  honor ;  to  neglect 
to  do  so  would  detract  from  the  dignity  of  their  social 
position,  and  be  disgraceful.  Every  attention  and  courtesy 
paid  to  a  guest  reflects  honor  on  the  host,  and  few  are  so 
perfect  that  these  considerations  do  not  have  some  weight. 
This  may  be  assumed  without  at  all  detracting  from  liigher 
motives. 

But  become  companions  on  a  journey  with  those  who,   as 


334      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

host  and  hostess,  have  been  so  attractive,  and  the  most  as- 
tonisliing  changes,  for  which  you  are  entirely  unprepared, 
utterly  foreign  to  your  estimate  of  their  character,  may  meet 
you  in  every  word  and  act.  Take  care,  however,  while 
watching  the  mote  in  your  neighbor's  eye,  that  he  does  not 
discover  the  beam  in  your  own.  In  the  infelicities  of  trav- 
eling, remember  you  are  liable  to  the  same  criticism,  and 
watch  and  pray  lest  your  own  conscience  compels  you  to 
acknowledge  the  justice  of  the  censure. 

On  the  other  hand,  you  will  often  see  persons  so  quiet  and 
gentle  at  home,  that  wliile  you  respect,  you  never  think  of 
them  as  presenting  any  very  striking  characteristics.  Sensi- 
ble and  unobtrusive,  the  goodness,  unseen,  carries  comfort  to 
all  around,  while  the  recipients  seldom  recognize  the  cause  of 
the  good  influence  which  surrounds  them,  until  some  start- 
ling commotion  proclaims  their  silent  ministration.  The 
freedom  born  from  a  common  annoyance,  discomfort,  or  dan- 
ger, such  as  is  often  experienced  in  traveling,  sometimes 
reveals  heroes  and  heroines  where  we  least  expected  to  find 
them. 

One  may  read  some  strange  chapters  in  character  if  he 
quietly  watch  a  crowd  rushing  on  board  a  car  or  steamer, 
eager  to  secure  the  best  position,  where  most  can  be  seen 
with  the  greatest  comfort.  The  rudeness  and  selfishness  of 
each  movement  and  act  would  be  unpardonable  in  their  own 
homes.  If  you  are  careful  to  be  on  board  early,  before  the 
"  rush  "  begins,  it  is  certainly  permissible  to  secure  the  best 
seat  you  can,  but  with  the  reservation  that  old  age,  feebleness, 
and  infancy  have  a  claim  on  aU,  which,  if  need  be,  should 
lead  you  willingly  to  relinquish  the  position,  however  desir- 
able, if  by  so  doing  you  can  add  to  the  comfort  of  any 
who  come  to  you  with  these  vouchers  for  their  right  to 
your  assistance  and  sympathy.  Unfortunately,  we  often 
see  this   gentle  consideration  for  age  and  feebleness  disre- 


TESTING  CHARACTER.  335 

garded ;  but  when  it  shines  forth  how  beautiful  it  is  !  How 
it  covers  little  faults  and  foibles,  which,  but  for  such  unex- 
pected manifestations,  would  have  much  power  to  vex  and 
distress  ! 

An  elderly  lady  in  feeble  health  took  her  seat  in  the  cars, 
homeward  bound  after  a  long  absence.  Being  a  cold,  rainy 
day,  it  was  especially  desirable  to  avoid  all  draughts  from 
open  windows.  A  party  of  young  people  in  high  spirits 
seated  themselves  in  front,  and  at  once  opened  the  Avindow. 
The  wind,  sleet,  and  rain  rushed  in,  making  all  around  un- 
comfortable. Several  remonstrated,  but  with  no  satisfactory 
results.  Even  the  indulgent  father  gently  insinuated  that 
they  might  themselves  suffer  from  such  exposure,  but  not 
a  word  was  spoken  of  the  risk  to  others.  Every  other  seat 
being  occupied,  the  invalid  could  make  no  change ;  and  feel- 
ing that  all  the  health  gained  by  her  absence  from  home 
might  be  lost  through  this  severe  exposure,  with  much 
reluctance  she  mildly  requested  that  the  window  nearest 
her  might  be  closed.     The  favor  was  rudely  refused. 

These  young  people  were  evidently  persons  of  wealth, 
on  their  way  to  travel  some  time  in  Europe.  From  such 
examples,  what  impressions  must  the  people  of  the  "  old 
country  "  form  of  the  characters  and  manners  of  the 
new  I  The  lady,  probably  reflecting  gravely  on  the  habits 
of  the  young  of  the  present  day,  sighed  for  the  time  when 
age  was  honored  and  the  young  taught  to  reverence  gray 
hairs. 

Time  flew  by,  and  again  the  invalid  sought  health  far 
from  home.  The  boat  was  crowded  with  the  young  and 
gay.  Xo  wonder  she  remembered  the  scene  on  the  cars  with 
sad  forebodings,  the  sadder  because  on  a  voyage  one  is  liable 
to  more  discomforts  than  when  traveling  by  land,  and 
probably  was  prepared  to  be  perfectly  isolated,  asking  for 
and  expecting  nothing.     The  passage  was  disagreeable  in  the 


336      MOTHERLY   TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

extreme,  and  all  more  or  less  seasick.  Of  course,  under  such 
circumstances,  it  would  not  have  been  surj)rising  if  each  was 
disposed  to  think  only  of  his  own  discomfort.  On  the  con- 
trary, kindness,  respect,  and  attention  were  the  rule,  with 
hardly  one  excej)tion.  Those  but  slightly  sick  were  prompt 
in  ministering  to  the  comfort  of  the  more  seriously  afflicted. 
Affectionate  inquiries,  gentle  sympathy,  and,  when  needed, 
most  tender  assistance,  filled  with  bright  spots  a  voyage  which, 
but  for  this  blessed  spirit,  would  have  been  intolerable ; 
making  warm  and  genuine  friends  for  life  of  those  who  but  a 
few  days  before  were  perfect  strangers. 

These  two  experiences  prove  how  unwise  it  would  be  to 
form  one's  estimate  of  all,  in  any  circumstances,  by  the  freaks 
and  folly  of  a  few.  How  easy  to  excuse  much  heedlessness 
and  frivolity,  hoping  for  better  things  with  coming  years,  if 
out  from  among  many  youthful  follies  such  good  traits  are 
made  apparent ! 

If  this  law  of  unselfish  kindness  were  thoroughly  under- 
stood ;  if  all,  particularly  the  young,  could  realize  the  rich 
reward  for  every  kind  act,  repaying  them  tenfold  even  in  this 
life,  ŌĆö  it  would  extract  many  thorns  from  weary  feet,  prevent 
much  heart-burning,  and  give  a  glory  to  the  life  below  only 
second  to  that  blessed  life  above,  where,  when  they  enter, 
they  may  hope  to  hear,  "  Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto 
the  least  of  these,  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me." 
"  Well  done,  good  and  faithful  servant,  enter  thou  into  the 
joy  of  thy  Lord." 


IF   WE  KNEW.  337 

LXXIX. 

IF    WE   KNEW! 

"  If  we  knew  the  baby  fingers 

Pressed  against  the  window-pane 
Would  be  cold  and  stiff  to-morrow, 

Never  trouble  us  again, 
Would  the  bright  eyes  of  our  darling 

Catch  the  frown  upon  our  brow  i 
Would  the  pruit  of  rosy  fingers 

Vex  us  then  as  they  do  now  ? 

"Ah  !  those  little,  ice-cold  fingers. 

How  they  point  our  memories  back 
To  the  hasty  words  and  actions 

Strewn  along  our  backward  track  ! 
How  those  little  hands  remind  us, 

As  in  snowy  grace  they  lie, 
Not  to  scatter  thorns,  but  roses. 

For  our  reaping  by  and  by  ! 

"  Strange  we  never  prize  the  music 

Till  the  sweet-voiced  bird  has  flown  ! 
Strange  that  we  should  slight  the  violets 

Till  the  lovely  flowers  are  gone  ! 
Strange  that  summer  skies  and  sunshine 

Never  seemed  one  half  so  fair 
As  when  winter's  snowy  pinions 

Shake  the  white  down  in  the  air  ! 

"  Lips  from  which  the  seal  of  silence 

None  but  God  can  roll  away. 
Never  blossomed  in  such  beauty 

As  adorns  the  mouth  to-day  ; 
And  sweet  words  that  freight  our  memory 

With  their  beautiful  perfume 
Come  to  us  in  sweeter  accents 

Through  the  portals  of  the  tomb  ! 

"  Let  us  gather  up  the  sunbeams 
Lying  all  around  our  path  ; 

15  V 


338      MOTHEKLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Let  us  keep  the  wheat  and  roses, 

Casting  out  the  thorns  and  chaff  ; 
Let  us  find  our  sweetest  comfort 

In  the  blessings  of  to-day  ; 
With  a  patient  hand  removing 

AU  the  briers  from  our  way." 

THE  wind  is  playing  with  the  long  gray  beard  on  the 
grand  old  live-oak  over  our  heads  ;  the  air,  soft  and 
balmy,  brings  the  shghtest  intimation  of  perfume  from  the 
orange-trees  around  us ;  the  golden  fruit,  half  hidden  in  the 
rich,  glossy  leaves,  and  here  and  there  a  bud  just  opening 
into  the  delicate  blossom,  give  promise  of  another  harvest 
before  the  first  is  fully  gathered.  Before  us  lies  the  beautiful 
St.  John's  river,  smooth  and  tranquil  as  a  summer  sea ;  but  a 
steamer  in  the  distance,  like  a  graceful  swan,  approaches  the 
wharf,  and  will  soon  disturb  its  calm,  and  toss  the  placid 
waters  into  merry  ripples  or  foaming,  sparkling  waves.  Only 
for  a  moment  she  touches  the  wharf,  then  glides  away,  and 
the  river  subsides  into  its  wonted  calm.  Her  coming  and 
going  have  no  interest  for  us,  save  that  which  a  ghmpse,  how- 
ever transient,  of  beauty,  strength,  and  grace  must  always 
awaken.  She  brings  none  to  greet  us  and  claim  the  welcome, 
so  gladly  given  by  one  far  from  home. 

Everything  around  us  is  quiet.  The  inmates  of  the  cottage 
are  mostly  out  sailing.  The  gentle  provider  for  the  house- 
hold comforts,  "  on  hospitable  thoughts  intent,"  is  preparing 
for  their  return  from  this  "  toil  of  pleasure,"  tired  and  raven- 
ously hungry.  We  are  entirely  alone ;  and  as  we  sit  in  this 
wonderful  quiet,  the  little  poem  quoted  above,  "  If  We 
Knew,"  stirs  our  heart  with  strange  and  solemn  power. 

Lives  there  one  who  does  not,  in  moments  of  retirement  or 
solitude,  look  back  to  the  earliest  hours  of  childhood,  and  re- 
call times  when,  if  he  could  have  known  the  results,  his 
actions  would  have  been  far  different  1 

If  aU  could  in  youth  look  along  the  map  of  life  clear  to  the 


IF  WE  KNEW.  339 

end,  seeing  all  the  breakers  and  quicksands,  which  by  pa- 
tience and  self-control  could  have  been  avoided,  how  much 
more  comforting  would  be  the  view  they  might  take,  in  after 
years,  of  the  "  backward  track  "  !  No  doubt  it  is  well,  for 
many  reasons,  that  we  cannot  read  the  future.  Trials  and 
sorrows,  which  no  skill  or  forethought  could  have  turned 
aside,  would  have  been  doubled  by  anticipation  and  fore- 
knowledge. And  yet  we  doubt  if  there  are  many  who, 
looking  back  from  the  "  half-way  house,"  would  not  willingly 
endure  all  the  additional  pain  if  they  might  have  possessed 
the  power  to  foresee  the  inevitable  results  of  certain  courses, 
and,  profiting  by  this  foreknowledge,  have  avoided  the  danger 
or  the  sin. 

Brother,  sister,  "  if  you  knew  "  that  soon  "  those  little  baby 
fingers  "  would  "  never  trouble  you  again,"  would  you  be  im- 
patient or  cross  to  your  little  playmates  for  their  childish, 
willful  Avays  1 

Two  little  boys  were  playing  together.  Both  wanted  the 
rocking-chair  for  a  horse.  Full  of  health  and  animal  spirits, 
their  dispute  ran  high,  and  ended  in  a  blow.  Only  a  few 
days  passed,  and  the  baby  hands  of  the  younger  were  folded 
in  "  snowy  grace  "  upon  the  cold  and  quiet  heart,  and  laid  in 
the  grave.  A  short  time  after,  hearing  bitter  sobs  in  the  gar- 
den, the  mother  found  the  lonely  brother  ŌĆö  himself  but  just 
past  babyhood  ŌĆö  lying  under  the  peach-trees,  watching  with 
eager  eyes  some  birds  flying  over  his  head,  and  calling,  be- 
tween his  sobs  :  "0  birdies !  little  birdies !  Fly  up !  fly 
higher  !  and  tell  Jesus  if  he  will  only  let  little  brother  come 
down  to  me,  he  shall  have  the  rocking-chair  aU  the  time,  and 
I  never,  never  will  strike  him  again  !     O,  neve7%  never  f  " 

Ah  !  how  many  brothers  and  sisters  look  back  upon  little 
disputes  and  sharp,  childish  quarrels,  that  would  hardly  have 
been  remembered  had  both  been  spared  to  grow  up  together ; 
but  one  having  been  taken  away,  that  dispute,  or  the  wrong 


340      MOTHERLY   TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

done,  remains  through  life  a  sore  spot  in  the  heart  of  the  sur- 
vivor. 

Father,  be  not  harsh  with  your  son.  He  disobeyed  your 
commands,  has  done  wrong,  and  for  his  own  good  deserves 
rebuke ;  but  remember  he  is  "  oidy  a  httle  one."  Let  your 
censure  be  tempered  with  gentleness.  It  was  but  the  over- 
flow of  exuberant  life,  not  willful  disobedience.  If  you 
could  look  forward  to  what  soon  may  be,  how  leniently  would 
you  judge,  how  tenderly  chide,  and  by  your  gentleness  secure 
obedience  much  more  effectually  ! 

Ah,  poor,  tired  mother !  you  are  very  weary  and  wellnigh 
sick.  Your  eyes  are  heavy  for  want  of  sleep,  and  your  head 
throbbing  with  the  noise  and  shouts  and  wild  frolics  of  your 
little  ones.  It  is  often  very  hard  to  bear ;  but  it  is  health 
and  strength  and  life  overflowing  in  their  yet  untried,  undis- 
ciplined hearts.  Be  patient !  If  soon,  with  hot  and  tearless 
eyes,  you  watch  by  the  little  crib  where  fever  may  conquer 
that  life  but  late  so  joyous  and  full  of  activity,  can  you  en- 
dure what  God  may  see  best  to  bring  upon  you,  if,  by  impa- 
tience, you  have  "scattered  thorns,  not  roses,  for  your 
reaping  by  and  by  "  1 

"  I  have  asked  you  twenty  times  to  mend  this  coat,  and  it 
is  not  done  yet.  '  ISTo  time' !  How  long  would  it  have  taken, 
I  should  like  to  know  ]  But  ŌĆö  well  ŌĆö  I  can  go  ragged,  I 
suppose.  You  give  little  heed  to  my  wishes  or  comfort.  You 
must  take  your  own  time  and  way,  without  regard  to  my  con- 
venience, or  you  win  not  be  satisfied." 

Husband  !  why  do  you  say  such  ugly,  biting  things  1  You 
love  your  wife.  You  would  be  indignant  if  a  looker-on  should 
hint  that  you  misjudged  her  or  were  exacting.  Your  heart 
ŌĆö  or  that  silent  monitor,  your  conscience  ŌĆö  tells  you  that 
she  did  not  intend  to  disregard  your  wishes  or  advice.  She 
was  tired,  overtaxed  with  many  cares  and  frequent  interrup- 
tions,  or  perhaps  sickness  is  creeping  upon   her  unawares. 


IF   WE   KNEW.  341 

Whatever  the  reason,  the  offense  was  but  a  "  little  thing." 
Or  even  if  she  was  self-willed  or  irritable,  be  patient  with 
her.  You  are  fully  aware  that  one  mode  of  speaking  makes 
her  indignant,  and  stirs  up  all  the  offensive,  opposing  elements 
in  her  character ;  while,  on  the  contrary,  a  certain  tone  of 
your  voice,  a  love-look  from  your  eye,  would  have  brought 
her  to  your  side  in  an  instant,  sorry,  self-upbraiding,  loving 
and  honoring  you  with  all  her  heart.  Ah,  "  if  you  knew  "  ! 
These  hi'st  morose,  fault-finding  words  are,  perhaps,  "  leaving 
on  her  heart  a  shadow,  leaving  on  your  heart  a  stain,"  which 
may  be  the  beginning  of  coldness,  mistrust,  and  defiance,  or 
perhaps  a  darker  sin,  when  but  for  them  you  could  have  se- 
cured joy  and  gladness  in  your  house,  growing  sweeter  and 
purer  day  by  day.  Deal  gently.  You,  her  husband,  can 
make  her  happy,  loving,  and  good,  or  you  can  make  her  irri- 
table, unloving,  and  evil,  thereby  destroying  your  own  happi- 
ness as  well  as  hers.  You  are  the  house-bond  or  home-hand. 
See  that  you  sever  it  not  by  your  own  folly. 

"  John,  why  do  you  always  ^vait,  and  wait,  and  hinder  me 
so  ?  You  can  come  at  once,  just  as  well  as  to  keep  me  wait- 
ing, if  you  only  choose  to  !  " 

Wife,  it  is  just  such  little,  impatient,  waspish  words  that 
will  tempt  your  husband  to  seek  quiet,  comfort,  and  appreci- 
ation away  from  your  side.  No  matter  if  he  does  "  speak  just 
as  impatiently  as  you  have  done,  fifty  times  a  day,"  show  him 
a  better  way.  Why  retort,  or  increase  the  "little  shadows," 
which  you  can  by  gentleness  dispel  %  Yield  a  little  ;  it  is  not 
hard,  and  you  will  reap  a  glorious  reward.  Is  not  your  hus- 
band's love  and  confidence  worth  keeping,  by  the  exercise  of 
a  little  patience  and  forbearance  1  But  if  not  for  present  joy, 
to  ward  off  future  misery  at  least,  "set  a  guard  over  the  door 
of  your  mouth,  that  you  sin  not  with  your  lips";  and  so  tread 
life's  pathway  with  him  to  whom  you  have  vowed  a  wife's 
fealty  that,  if  called  to  sit  in  the  desolation  of  widowhood, 


342      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

there  shall  not  be  added  to  that  sorrow  the  anguish  of  seK- 
iipbraiding  for  little  services  impatiently  rendered,  or  love 
requited  by  coldness  or  irritability. 

When  we  have  passed  through  aU  the  labors  and  trials  of 
early  life,  and  in  fuU  maturity  or  just  on  the  decline  pause 
a  moment  to  recall  the  friends  of  our  youth  now  gone,  and 
the  sweet  family  ties  now  broken,  how  the  heart  aches  with 
the  memory  of  hasty  words  or  actions,  and  vainly  yearns  for 
one  more  opportunity  for  the  better  performance  of  our  whole 
duty,  in  all  love,  fidelity,  and  patience  !     But 

"  God  ....  pity  us  all 
Who  vainly  the  dreams  of  youth  recall  ; 
For  of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen, 
The  saddest  are  these  :  It  might  have  been  I " 


LXXX. 

IN   SUCH  AN   HOUR  AS   YE   THINK   NOT. 

~TT'"/^HE]Sr  a  young  girl  is  called  by  the  death  of  her 
VV  mother  to  assume  the  management  of  the  family 
before  her  home  education  has  been  completed,  we  know  of 
very  few  cases  which  draw  so  largely  on  our  sympathy. 
Grief  and  depression  for  the  loss  of  a  mother  is  hard  enough 
for  the  young  heart  to  endure  ;  and  added  to  this,  it  is  no 
easy  thing  to  accept  the  responsibility  of  providing  for  the 
comforts  of  those  thus  thrown  upon  her  care.  All  the 
economical  arrangements  of  the  household,  the  oversight  of 
cooking,  even  when  the  labor  is  done  by  the  hands  of  a 
servant ;  the  daily  watchings  to  prevent  miscalcidations  in 
marketing ;  the  neatness  and  regularity  to  be  secured  in 
every  department, ŌĆö  may  seem  light  to  an  experienced  matron, 


IN  SUCH  AN   HOUR  AS   YE  THINK   NOT.  343 

but  aro  heavy  burdens  to  be  laid  upon  a  slight  young  girl. 
Yet  all  this  is  but  a  drop,  compared  with  the  thought  and 
anxiety  she  must  feel  in  administering  to  the  health  and 
happiness  of  her  father  and  of  the  children,  even  younger  than 
herself,  who  will  now  turn  to  her  for  the  care  once  so  effi- 
ciently and  promptly  given  by  the  mother.  And  most  likely, 
until  trials  came  to  her,  the  daughter  had  never  had  cares 
or  duties  that  demanded  the  exercise  of  her  independent 
judgment,  ŌĆö  her  mother  being  always  near  to  direct  and 
decide. 

A  daughter  may  be  ever  so  thoroughly  instructed  in  all 
womanly  employments,  yet  if  her  mother  retains  the  entire 
charge  of  every  portion  of  the  household  labor,  ŌĆö  the  child 
simply  following  as  she  is  bid,  ŌĆö  there  can  be  little  opjjor- 
tunity  for  the  development  and  exercise  of  her  individual 
judgment.  She  naturally  prefers  to  lean  on  one  ever  ready 
to  relieve  her  from  distasteful  duties.  This  is,  no  doubt, 
pleasant  for  both,  ŌĆö  the  mother  is  happy  in  shielding,  the 
child  happy  in  freedom  from  care.  But  we  doubt  if  it  is 
wise  or  right,  for  often  "  in  such  an  hour  as  ye  think 
not "  all  this  must  be  changed.  Frequently,  without  a  mo- 
ment's warning  or  time  for  preparation,  the  mother  is  taken 
from  her  family.  Ought  she  not  to  have  furnished  her  child, 
by  her  teachings,  with  that  experience  which,  like  a  lamp 
trimmed  and  burning,  would  guide  her  footsteps,  enabling 
her,  Avhen  this  unlooked-for  trial  came,  to  assume  these  re- 
sponsibilities with  comparative  ease  1  "We  believe  that  even 
at  an  early  age  it  is  best  that  some  particular  duty  should  be 
committed  to  the  care  of  every  child,  thus  teaching  them 
self-reliance  from  the  beginning  of  life,  and  accustoming  even 
the  little  ones  to  feel  responsible  for  a  certain  amount  of 
daily  labor.  Of  course,  the  mother  will  quietly  watch  that 
these  small  duties  are  properly  performed,  but  not  openly, 
so  that  her  child  loses  the  sense  of  real  accountability,  by 


344      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

knowing  that  "  mother  Avill  see  that  it  is  all  right,  even  if  I 
should  neglect  or  make  mistakes."  The  mother  TOdust  j^oint 
out  mistakes,  but  the  child  should  always  be  made  to  rectify 
them.  The  knowledge  that  doing  work  hastily  or  carelessly 
will  only  be  the  cause  of  punishment  by  compelling  her  to 
do  the  work  over  and  over  again,  until  it  is  right,  is  a  great 
safeguard  against  contracting  careless  habits.  Lessons  thus 
enforced  do  not  often  need  repeating. 

Little  by  little,  as  the  child  grows  toward  womanhood, 
let  the  mother  throw  off  some  portion  of  her  cares,  teaching 
her  daughters  to  oversee  or  perform  them  correctly,  and  by 
so  doing  not  only  lighten  her  own  labors,  but  make  such 
duties  easy  for  her  children  in  after-years,  or  if  they  should  be 
called  prematurely  to  the  entire  charge.  When  daughters 
are  old  enough  to  become  their  mother's  companions,  they 
should  also  become  joint  partners  in  home  and  household 
responsibilities.  When  out  of  school,  divide  the  work  so 
that  every  other  week  the  mother  shall  be  entirely  free  from 
all  care,  ŌĆö  a  guest  in  the  family ;  or  if  that  is  at  first  too 
great  a  tax  on  the  young  partner,  "  take  turns  "  in  dividing 
the  work,  ŌĆö  the  daughter  one  week  having  the  charge  of  the 
cooking,  marketing,  and  arranging  for  each  meal  entirely 
herself;  the  next  week,  of  the  dairy,  if  on  a  farm,  or  the 
laundry  or  chamber  work.  When  each  week  is  ended,  the 
mother  can  point  out  the  failures,  or  recommend  a  better  or 
easier  way  of  doing  some  particular  thing  ;  but  urdess  advice  or 
directions  are  asked,  it  is  far  better  that  the  young  housekeeper 
should  be  left  to  her  own  skill  and  judgment.  For  a  few 
times  this  may  not  prove  the  best  economy,  but  in  the  end 
"  it  pays,"  and  with  good  interest.  Of  course,  before  this 
plan  can  be  carried  into  execution,  to  any  extent,  the  young 
lady  has  served  an  apprenticeship,  so  far  as  to  know,  herself, 
that  part  of  the  work  Avhich  comes  under  her  jurisdiction 
each  week ;  and  when  practice  shall  have  made  perfect,  and 


IN  SUCH  AN   HOUR  AS   YE  THINK   NOT.  345 

the  term  of  apprenticeship  expires,  it  is  excellent  discipline 
for  a  daughter  to  assume  the  reins  entirely,  for  a  shorter  or 
longer  time,  as  health  or  pleasure  may  determine,  subject  to 
such  suggestions  as  may  be  deemed  advisable.  This  arrange- 
ment gives  rest  and  liberty,  if  all  her  children  are  grown  up, 
for  the  mother  to  read,  travel,  or  enjoy  social  life ;  as  she 
could  not  do  when  they  were  young  and  needing  the  mother's 
care,  ŌĆö  which  should  never  be  delegated  to  another,  unless 
compelled  by  ill  health.  This  is  a  most  valuable  training, 
by  which  the  young  housekeeper  is  prepared  for  a  useful  life, 
or  a  happy  home  of  her  own  some  day. 

We  cannot  but  feel  that  of  late  years  too  large  a  propor- 
tion of  care  and  thought  is  bestowed  by  parents  in  educating 
their  daughters  to  shine  in  fashionable  life,  ŌĆö  in  giving  tliem 
an  ornamental  rather  than  a  solid,  practical,  or  intellectual 
education.  They  dislike  to  keep  their  children  at  close  study, 
lest  they  should  spoil  their  figures  or  their  eyes,  and  allow 
them  to  discard  housework  for  fear  their  hands  will  not  be 
small  and  delicate  enough  to  show  to  advantage  at  the  piano, 
or  in  a  party.  Music,  painting,  and  dancing  are  all  well 
enough  in  their  way,  ŌĆö  some  of  them  very  important,  ŌĆö  but 
should  not  be  sought  after  to  the  exclusion  of  the  practical, 
and  by  no  means  the  least  important  part  of  a  young  girl's 
education,  and  preparation  for  an  active,  useful  life.  Many 
young  ladies  will  not  willingly  accept  these  views ;  but  it  is 
for  the  most  part  because  mothers,  out  of  mistaken  fondness, 
do  not  care  to  have  them  ;  or,  as  is  too  often  the  case,  be- 
cause they  do  not  like  the  drudgery,  as  they  term  it,  of 
teaching  the  lessons  in  domestic  economy,  so  necessary  to 
their  future  welfare,  ŌĆö  an  indolent  or  selfish  mode  of  setting 
aside  heaven-ordained  duties,  for  which  a  severe  reckoning 
may  one  day  be  demanded. 


15* 


34G      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

LXXXI. 

GRUMBLING. 

IT  must  be  that  a  certain  class  of  people  find  pleasure  in 
fault-finding  and  grumbling,  or  they  would  not  search  so 
industriously  for  an  opportunity  to  exercise  their  talents  in 
this  direction ;  or,  failing  to  secure  a  legitunate  occasion, 
willfully  manufacture  one.  In  the  family,  this  habit  is,  un- 
fortunately, often  carried  to  a  great  extent,  even  among  those 
who  are,  undoubtedly,  sincerely  attached  to  each  other.  The 
first  word  in  the  morning  is  usually  a  querulous  inquiry  or 
complaint  about  some  trivial  thing  which  they  merely  sus- 
pect has  been  neglected  or  unsatisfactorily  performed.  They 
do  not  take  the  trouble  to  inquire  if  their  suspicious  are  well 
founded.  Such  inquiry  might  deprive  them  of  the  luxury 
of  grumbling.  If  it  were  not  so  sad  to  hear  the  early  morn- 
ing hours  thus  desecrated,  it  might  furnish  much  amusement 
for  a  "  looker  on  "  to  notice  how  often  these  unfortunates  are 
caught  in  their  own  trap,  and  the  fact  made  evident  to  all 
that  the  foolish  words  were  but  the  ebullition  of  arrogance 
and  irritability,  having  no  foundation. 

"  My  dear  !  "  (you  "will  notice  that  a  gentleman  grumbler 
begins  a  complaint  with  a  strongly  emphasized  teriu  of  en- 
dearment,) ŌĆö  "  my  dear !  why  could  you  not  heed  my  re- 
quest that  our  breakfast  might  be  one  half -hour  later  this 
morning  1  I  told  you  I  was  very  tired,  and  needed  a  little 
more  rest.  But  it  is  useless  for  me  to  imagine  you  would 
deviate  from  your  rules  one  minute  just  for  my  comfort." 

"  Why,  Tom  !  how  unreasonable  you  are  !  You  are  so 
in  the  habit  of  finding  fault,  that  you  never  stop  to  learn 
certainly   if  there   is   any  cause  for   dissatisfaction.     Your 


GRUMBLING.  347 

hi'cakfast  is  just  three  quarters  of  an  hour  later  than  usual. 
I  delayed  it  just  as  long  as  I  could,  expressly  for  your  com- 
fort." 

"  I  said  half  an  hour,  not  three  quarters.  That  was  every 
minute  I  could  spare.  Xow,  I  shall  be  too  late  for  some 
very  important  business.  Eut  you  are  always  interfering,  as 
if  I  ditl  n't  understand  my  own  business  best  !  " 

Eut  when  the  grumbler  has  had  a  good  cup  of  coffee  or 
tea,  and  the  "  inner  man "  is  suitably  refreshed  by  an 
abundant  breakfast,  he  seems  to  be  in  no  great  haste  to  at- 
tend to  that  important  business  ;  but  has  leisure  to  look  over 
the  papers,  play  a  moment  with  the  children,  and  can  really 
speak  gently  to  the  one  so  rudely  censiu-ed  in  the  morning, 
before  his  appetite  was  appeased. 

"  Now,  I  call  this  real  cruel,  John.  I  must  go  to  market 
right  off  after  breakfast,  because  you  foi'got  to  bring  home 
the  marketing  last  night.  And  I  asked  you  so  particularly ; 
as  we  have  company  to  dinner,  I  have  hardly  time  to  get 
ready.  But  I  might  have  known  if  I  wanted  anything  in 
season,  tired  or  sick,  I  must  always  do  it  myself.  It  is 
really  too  bad  !  " 

"  My  dear !  if  I  might  slip  in  a  word,  I  would  like  to 
inform  you  that  I  did  bring  home  the  marketing  according 
to  orders,  and  gave  it  to  the  cook.  You  will  doubtless  find 
it  in  the  store-closet." 

"  0  John  !  that 's  just  like  you.  Why  could  n't  you 
have  told  me  last  night  1  It  would  n't  have  hurt  you  to 
have  taken  that  trouble,  I  'm  sure." 

"  You  had  company,  you  recollect,  when  I  came  home.  I 
had  an  errand  to  do  after  tea,  and  you  were  fast  asleep  when 
I  returned.     What  chance  had  I  to  tell  you  ? " 

"  You  could  n't  have  told  me  quietly,  even  if  we  had  com- 
pany, I  suppose  1 " 

"  Why,  child  !  how  eager  you  are  to  find  fault !  " 


348      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

"  0,  yes  !  of  course  I  am  the  only  one  to  tlame." 

It  is  not  necessary  to  multiply  examples,  though,  we  'are 
sorry  to  say,  they  could  be  brought  from  every  class  and  po- 
sition. But  such  things  are  not  pleasant  to  hear,  and  cer- 
tainly do  not  look  well  on  paper.  It  is  to  be  feared  that  we 
all  have  some  germs  of  this  same  malady,  ŌĆö  enough,  at  least, 
to  understand  the  symptoms,  and  warn  us  to  vigorous  efforts 
to  eradicate  them.  If  allowed  to  take  root,  they  deface  our 
own  characters,  and  disturb,  if  not  destroy,  the  comfort  of 
home.  When  parents  indulge  in  this  sin  of  grumbling, 
they  cannot  wonder  if  their  children  follow  their  example, 
and  even  go  beyond  it.  A  whole  family  of  grumblers  ! 
what  can  be  more  wretched  1 

Another  class,  whose  beha\ior  at  home  is  unexceptionable, 
spare  their  families,  reserving  their  grumbling  for  business 
hours,  giving  their  servants  or  clerks  the  discomfort  that  the 
first  class  lay  by  for  home  consumption.  There  is  hope  for 
those.  By  and  by  some  high-spirited  sufferer  from  their 
waspishness  and  fault-finding,  having  endured  their  weari- 
some grumbling  till  patience  is  no  longer  a  virtue,  may  teach 
them  a  lesson,  through  their  self-interest,  that  Avill  perhaps 
prove  effectual. 

But  we  have  a  few  words  to  say  of  another  class,  ŌĆö 
grumbling  travelers.  At  some  of  our  hotel  tables,  Avhere 
travelers  "  most  do  congregate,"  one  can  read  a  chapter  of 
absurd  and  ridiculous  weakness  to  be  found  nowhere  else. 
"VVe  have  known  people  to  sit  down  to  a  table  where  we 
could  find  no  occasion  for  complaint,  and  grumble  loudly  at 
every  individual  article.  Coffee,  "  horrid  "  ;  tea,  "  an  insult 
to  set  such  stuff  before  any  one  "  ;  soup,  "  too  thick,"  or 
"  too  thin " ;  and  so  on  through  the  whole  bill  of  fare. 
Nothing  set  before  them  that  was  not  made  a  subject  of 
criticism  or  rude  comparison  between  the  hotel  fare  and  the 
wonderful  perfections  of  their   own  table.     This  habit  of 


GRUMBLING.  349 

fault-finding  is,  by  a  certain  class,  considered  a  certificate  of 
superiority  which  cannot  fail  to  convince  the  public  that 
they  are  persons  of  wealth  and  high-standing  at  home.  A 
mistaken  idea.  Even  the  waiters  at  public  tables,  who,  in 
consequence  of  the  variety  of  guests  to  whom  they  are 
called,  are  usually  good  judges  of  character,  are  not  deceived 
by  this  vain  pretense  ;  but  many  sly  glances,  that  can  only 
be  inter])reted  as  contemptvious,  may  be  detected  ;  and  as 
these  complainers  leave  the  table,  the  -waiters  whisper  to 
each  other,  as  they  pass  to  and  fro,  *'  Shoddy,"  with  looks 
that  cannot  be  misunderstood. 

This  class  of  travelers  leave  their  homes,  not  for  informa- 
tion and  improvement,  but  for  the  opportunity  of  grumbling, 
on  a  new  and  more  extensive  scale  than  can  be  attained  in 
their  own  families.  They  leave  home  in  search  of  some  yet 
untried  cause  for  grumbling,  and  by  a  long  stretch  of  con- 
science and  imagination  they  contrive  to  find  it,  and  return 
with  a  large  store  of  freshly  gathered  material,  over  which  to 
expatiate  for  some  weeks,  quite  to  the  relief  of  their  families. 

All  this  kind  of  grumbling  appears  to  us  most  unreason- 
able and  ridicidous  ;  but  if  not  inclined  to  find  fault  in  any 
of  the  ways  mentioned,  we  are  beginning  to  fear  that  every 
one  meets  some  point  in  life  where  he  imagines  dissatisfac- 
tion and  complaint  to  be  perfectly  justifiable.  Something  in 
their  surroundings  is  out  of  joint.  Their  most  carefully  laid 
plans  and  well-grounded  expectations  fail ;  friends  grow 
cold  ;  where  lies  the  fault  ?  Is  none  of  it  with  joii  1  The 
foundations  of  our  worldly  prosperity  seem  built  on  solid 
rock,  but  they  slide  from  under  lis.  We  take  to  our  hearts 
one  dearer  than  our  own  life,  and  in  an  hour  when  we  think 
not  the  bond  is  severed.  Time  and  again  the  cradle  is  left 
empty ;  or  a  sweet  and  loving  spirit  emerges  from  it,  and  step 
by  step  grows  toward  dear  companionship,  when,  as  in  a 
moment,  God  calls,  and  we  are  left  in  sackcloth  and  ashes. 


350      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

We  murmur  and  repine,  ŌĆö  God's  dealings  appear  so  unequal- 
ly distributed.  In  the  same  vicinity  one  family  grows  up 
unbroken,  from  babyhood  into  vigorous  manhood,  while 
another  home  is  left  desolate,  and  they  cry  out  in  their 
anguish,  "  I  do  well  .to  be  angry."  They  forget  that  God 
deals  with  his  children  as  they  deal  with  the  rich  but  un- 
cultivated lands  committed  to  their  care.  What  is  more 
beautiful  to  the  eye  than  a  large  grove  of  wild  orange- 
trees  1  ŌĆö  but  how  useless  if  left  unimproved !  Who  com- 
plains when  their  beauty,  for  the  present,  is  destroyed,  the 
trees  cut  back  and  pruned  till  they  stand  bare  and  unsight- 
ly 1  But  the  buds  and  grafts  which  have  been  introduced 
will  soon  start  into  new  life,  the  branches  begin  to  shoot  up- 
ward, and  the  sweet,  pure  blossoms  and  golden  fruit  will 
clothe  the  tree,  which  a  grumbler  would  have  thought 
wholly  destroyed,  with  new  beauty.  The  old  beauty  was 
defaced  only  that  the  tree  should,  in  the  end,  become  fruit- 
ful, and  thereby  more  gloriously  perfect  than  at  first. 

Yet  we  murmur  when  our  wild  orange  groves  are  cut 
back,  pruned,  and  grafted,  and  the  "  seedlings  "  from  our 
nurseries  transplanted.     We  forget  that 

"  Sweet  fields  beyond  the  swelling  flood 
Stand  dressed  in  living  green," 

which  are  made  more  gloriously  beautiful  by  every  rare  and 
precious  plant  that  our  Father  transplants  from  this  beauti- 
ful but  stormy  earth  to  his  garden, 

"  Where  everlasting  spring  abides, 
And  never  withering;  flowers." 


LITTLE   FOXES  SPOILING  THE   BELOVED   VINE.       351 

LXXXII. 
LITTLE  FOXES  SPOILING  THE  BELOVED  VINE. 

"  A  MOTHER "  desires  to  know  if  she  fails  in  disci- 
-/_JL  pline,  or  if  her  children  are  more  troublesome  and 
difficult  to  manage  than  other  people's.  She  has  coaxed, 
reasoned,  whipped ;  shut  up  in  solitude,  fed  them  on  bread 
and  water,  or  confined  them  in  a  dark  room ;  but  all  appears 
to  be  ineifectual.  They  do  nothing  really  ivicked,  in  the 
strict  sense  of  that  term ;  but  they  forget  or  disregard  all 
rules  or  commands,  are  mischievous  and  careless ;  boisterous 
and  full  of  frolic  one  day,  to  the  neglect  of  every  duty,  and 
the  next,  quarrelsome,  irritable,  and  in  every  respect  uncer- 
tain. This  mother  feels  her  responsibility  deeply,  and  with 
all  her  heart  desires  to  bring  her  children  up  in  the  right 
way,  but  is  more  and  more  conscious  that  she  fails  in  her 
efforts,  and  now  feels  disheartened  and  discouraged. 

"VVe  judge  the  great  trouble  here  is  over-anxiety.  Her 
children  are  governed  too  viuch.  It  is  not  easy  to  lead  young, 
conscientious  mothers  to  see  this  ;  but  the  grandmothers, 
profiting  by  their  own  mistakes,  see  in  these  boisterous,  care- 
less, impressible  children  that  which,  if  not  too  closely 
pruned,  will  mature  into  strong,  healthy  men  and  women  ; 
and  in  their  irritability  and  disobedience  they  recognize  the 
effect  of  over-restraint,  and  too  great  repression  of  youthful, 
exuberant,  animal  spirit,  which,  if  slightly  modified  and 
gently  led,  will  be  an  invaluable  assistance  to  these  little 
ones  in  after-life,  giving  them  strength  and  force  of  character 
to  act  well  their  part  when  they  enter  in  earnest  on  their 
life's  work.  No  doubt  quiet,  demure,  proper  children  would 
be  the  most  desirable,  just  for  the  present  comfort  of  moth- 


352       MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

ers  or  friends.  Overtasked  bodies  and  aching  heads  find 
such  children  less  troublesome.  But  it  is  not  for  present 
ease  that  good  mothers  live.  They  look  for  their  reward 
in  the  future  usefulness  of  their  chilcben,  and  "  for  the  joy- 
that  is  set  before  them  "  they  endure  the  cross  like  good  sol- 
diers. 

Yet  while  striving,  in  all  patience,  self-sacrifice,  and  love, 
to  make  your  children  happy  in  the  formatory  state,  and  at 
the  same  time  teach  them  better  ways,  you  must  also  be  on 
the  watch  for  the  foes  without  and  the  foes  within,  ŌĆö  the 
"  little  foxes  "  that  seek  to  destroy 

'*  The  beloved  vine 
Trusted  to  your  tending 
By  the  One  Divine." 

In  no  case  be  easy  and  lenient  to  that  which  is  sin,  ŌĆö  not 
merely  childish  sport  or  thoughtlessness.  Eoot  up  the  small- 
est germ  from  which  mean,  low,  or  wicked  habits  will  spring, 
with  a  kind  but  uncompromising  firmness.  You  cannot 
guard  your  charge  too  closely  here  ;  but  be  most  scrupulous- 
ly careful  that  you  are  not  overhasty  in  judging  of  the  char- 
acter of  their  faults,  but  have  rightfully  distinguished  be- 
tween deliberate,  intentional  wrong-doing  and  childish  folly. 
Let  your  children  feel  that  for  the  first  you  accept  no  excuse  ; 
for  the  latter  you  are  lenient,  full  of  loving-kindness  and 
tender  mercy.  For  disobedience  that  springs  from  stubborn- 
ness and  a  willful  determination  to  do  that  which  is  forbid- 
den at  all  hazards,  be  not  cruel  and  harsh,  but  firm,  and  so 
severe  that  the  child  will  have  no  doubt  of  your  resolution  to 
destroy  the  evil  by  meeting  each  act  with  quick  retribution. 
Yet  when  compelled  to  punish,  be  so  careful  of  your  own 
heart  that  your  erring  one  cannot  but  see  that  you  are  severe 
from  no  one  emotion  of  anger,  or  because  you  are  made  un- 
comfortable, but  because  God  has  committed  them  to  your 
care,  and  will  demand  a  strict  account  of  your  stewardship. 


LITTLE   FOXES  SPOILING  THE   BELOVED   VINE.       353 

r>c  sure,  in  your  dealings  with  your  children,  that  they  have  no 
difficulty  in  seeing  that  you  recognize  a  wide  difference  be- 
tween overt  sins  and  wrong  done  through  childish  thought- 
lessness and  ignorance  ;  and  while  you  gently  point  out  the 
inconvenience  and  mischief  apparent  in  consequence  of  their 
careless  act-s,  seek  to  make  it  plain  to  them  that  you  restrain 
because  you  do  not  like  them  to  seek  their  sports  and  amuse- 
ments selfishly,  and  at  the  expense  of  others'  comfort.  Be- 
fore you  decide  that  any  act  of  your  children  is  really  sinful 
and  deserving  punishment,  examine  and  hear  all  that  can  be 
said  in  excuse  or  palliation. 

Then  as  to  the  mode  of  punishment,  when  it  really  be- 
comes necessary,  we  think  the  parents'  judgment  ought  to  be 
the  surest  guide,  as  they  should  better  understand  the  char- 
acters they  have  to  deal  with.  Some  children,  when  they 
find  that  punisliment  is  sure  to  follow  wrong-doing,  submit 
easily  ;  others  are  resolute  or  defiant,  and  these  traits  should 
decide  the  nature  of  such  infliction  as  the  parent  finds  una- 
voidable. There  are  times  with  certain  children  when  we 
think  a  sound  whipping  the  most  curative  process ;  while  to 
others  it  would  be  so  humiliating  as  to  irreparably  injure 
the  child's  character ;  but  a  whipping  is  not  needed  once, 
where  some  young,  inexperienced,  but  conscientious  parents 
employ  it  twenty  times.  Where  it  must  be  resorted  to,  let 
it  be  sufficiently  severe  to  make  a  repetition  a  thing  to  be 
dreaded ;  but,  if  brutal,  it  is  simply  barbarity,  not  justice. 

Never,  under  any  circumstances,  strike  a  child  on  the 
head  or  box  the  ears.  That  is  the  act  of  anger,  and  in 
general  is  practiced  only  when  the  judgment  is  overruled 
by  passion.  Do  not  attempt  to  turn  a  child  from  the 
"  error  of  his  ways  "  by  any  such  heathenish  means.  No 
one  can  judge  at  the  time  of  the  force  of  a  blow  dealt  in 
anger ;  and  though  done  thoughtlessly,  in  a  moment  of 
irritation,  it  may  bring  life-long  suffering  and  sorrow.     So, 

w 


354       MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

shutting  up  a  child  in  a  dark  room,  though  it  may  not 
appear  at  the  time  so  barbarous,  has  often  resulted  in  the 
most  painful,  if  not  fatal  injuries.  Neither  do  we  approve 
of  attempting  to  convert  a  child  through  its  appetite ;  a 
dark  room,  a  cup  of  water,  and  a  crust  of  bread  savors  too 
much  of  the  inquisition  or  the  convict's  cell  for  Christian 
parents  to  imitate. 

After  all,  each  one  must  be  a  law  unto  himself.  Another 
cannot  give  special  rules  for  any  one ;  but  there  is  one  thing 
that  it  may  be  well  for  every  parent  to  bear  in  mind  always, 
namely,  that  probably  a  large  proportion  of  the  evil  we  find 
in  our  children  is  but  the  continuation  or  increase  of  oxir  own 
faults,  unheeded  while  they  were  onr  own.  And  this  should 
teach  us  great  caution,  great  love  and  gentleness  in  govern- 
ing our  little  imitators.  Mrs.  Mary  Crann,  some  years  ago, 
published  some  pretty  verses  on  "  The  Little  Foxes,"  which 
spoil  our  i'  beloved  vines."  They  are  very  touching,  be- 
cause so  true,  and  mothers  cannot  fail  to  read  them  with 
deep  feeling,  and  with  full  hearts  thank  the  author  who 
in  these  lines  gives  utterance  to  the  sorrow  and  self-condem- 
nation which  so  often  oppress  them,  when  their  own  faults 
and  failings  look  at  them  through  their  little  ones.  We 
think  we  cannot  do  better  than  to  finish  by  giving  our 
readers  the  whole  poem  :  ŌĆö 

"  Little  foxes,  spoiling 

The  beloved  vine 
Trusted  to  my  tending 

By  the  One  Divine. 
Little  foxes,  wherefore 

Have  ye  entrance  found 
To  the  vine  so  precious 

Growing  in  my  gromid  ? 

"  Have  ye  leaped  the  fences  ? 
Have  ye  climbed  the  wall  ? 
Were  there  tiny  openings  ? 
Ye  are  very  small. 


LITTLE   FOXES   SPOILING  THE  BELOVED   VINE.  355 

And  ye  can  creep  slyly 

Througli  a  tiny  space; 
But  I  thought  I  closed  up 

Every  open  place. 

"And  I  watched  by  daytime, 

And  I  watclied  by  night, 
For  the  vine  you  're  spoiling 

Is  my  heart's  delight  ! 
I  have  kept  the  earth-worm 

From  its  precious  root; 
I  have  trimmed  its  branches, 

But  they  bear  no  fruit. 

"  For  the  little  foxes 

Have  assailed  the  vine. 
Trusted  to  my  tending 

By  the  One  Divine ; 
And  though  I  've  been  faithful 

Since  its  birthday  morn, 
They  were  in  the  garden 

When  the  babe  was  born. 

"  For  they  are  the  failings 

That  I  would  not  see 
Wlien  they  were  my  failings, 

When  they  dwelt  in  me; 
Little  faults  unheeded, 

That  I  now  despise ; 
For  my  baby  took  them 

With  my  hair  and  eyes. 

"  And  I  chide  her  often, 

For  I  know  I  must. 
But  I  do  it  always 

Bowed  down  to  the  dust. 
With  a  face  all  crimsoned 

With  a  burning  blush. 
And  an  inward  whisper 

That  I  cannot  hush. 

"  And  sometimes  it  seemeth 
Like  the  voice  of  God, 
And  it  says,  '  Poor  coward, 
Using  now  the  rod 


35 G      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

On  a  child's  frail  body. 

Till  I  hear  it  moan, 
And  see  its  soft  flesh  quiver 

For  a  sin  thine  own.' 

"  0  my  Father,  pity, 

Pity  and  forgive; 
Slay  the  little  foxes 

I  allowed  to  live 
Till  they  left  the  larger 

For  the  smaller  vine, 
Till  they  touched  the  dear  life, 

Dearer  far  than  mine. 

"  0  my  Father,  hear  me. 

Make  my  darling  thine, 
Though  I  am  so  human. 

Make  her  all  divine  ! 
Slay  the  little  foxes, 

That  both  vines  may  be 
Laden  with  fruit  worthy 

To  be  ofi'ered  thee  !  " 


LXXXIII. 

WASTE  NOT  ŌĆö WANT  NOT. 

MANY,  particularly  among  the  young,  associate  economy 
and  frugality  with,  meanness,  ungenerousness,  and  a 
churlish,  disobliging  disposition. 

"  There  would  be  no  pleasure  or  comfort  in  living,"  said  a 
young  lady,  when  a  friend  was  endeavoring  to  show  her  the 
desirableness  of  "  counting  cost,"  before  entering  upon  any 
extravagant  expenditures,  ŌĆö  "there  woidd  be  no  comfort  in 
living,  if  I  must  stop  and  consider  the  price,  ŌĆö  adding  up  at 
every  step,  and  dehberating  upon  the  sum  total  before  I 
dared  to  make  a  purchase  ;  to  say  every  minute,  '  Can  I  afford 


WASTE   NOT  ŌĆö  WANT   NOT.  357 

tliis  V  ov,  '  Can  I  manage  to  do  without  that '] '  To  compel 
myself  to  study  how  I  could  alter  over  an  old  garment,  how 
to  change  the  trimmings  so  as  to  hide  such  piecing  as  must 
be  done,  before  I  could  bring  the  article  into  usable  shape, 
and  at  the  same  time  preserve  a  genteel  appearance ;  to  pick 
up  pins  and  needles,  buttons  and  strings,  keeping  before  my 
mind  all  the  time  the  idea  of  economy  and  saving,  in  every- 
thing, small  as  well  as  great !  Pshaw  !  I  should  feel  so  mean. 
I  should  despise  myself,  and  tliink  all  my  acquaintances 
would  despise  me  also.  I  'd  sooner  spend  what  I  have  in  a 
free-and-easy  manner,  taking  what  pleasure  I  could  in  it,  as 
long  as  it  lasted,  and,  when  all  was  gone,  go  to  the  poorhouse 
or  die  !     I  do  really  think  so." 

A  change  of  cars  took  them  away,  and  we  do  not  know 
what  reply  was  made  to  this  speech ;  but  from  it  we  thought 
one  could,  without  uncharitableness,  form  a  pretty  correct 
estimate  of  the  speaker's  character  and  probable  future.  She 
may  not  end  in  the  poorhouse,  though  that  would  not  be  the 
most  unlikely  thing  that  could  happen ;  but  if  she  marries, 
the  heart  of  her  husband  cannot  safely  trust  in  her,  and  her 
children  will  not  rise  up  and  call  her  blessed.  Waste  and 
extravagance  go  hand  in  hand,  and  happiness  and  comfort 
do  not  walk  with  them.  Those  whom  they  beguile  become 
selfish,  seeking  their  own  gratification,  regardless  of  the  in- 
terests of  others. 

It  is  possible  that  parents  often  err  in  their  mode  of  incul- 
cating economy,  and,  while  striving  to  enforce  its  practice, 
render  the  whole  subject,  and  every  idea  connected  with  it, 
distasteful  by  overmuch  teacliing.  However  that  may  be, 
for  some  reason  the  young  ai)pear  to  look  upon  it  as  some- 
thing to  be  shunned,  feeling  that  they  would  "  lose  caste," 
if  they  even  spoke  of  it,  and  to  attempt  to  practice  it  would 
shut  them  out  from  certain  acquaintances  as  something  quite 
inferior.     So,  if  compelled  to  economize,  they  do  it  secretly, 


358      MOTHERLY   TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

while  they  think  of  it  as  an  evil  to  be  deplored.  All  their 
little  devices  to  "  keep  up  appearances,"  and  bring  their  sur- 
roundings into  harmony  with  their  more  wealthy  neighbors, 
they  shrink  from  having  known,  as  from  real  disgrace  or 
guilt;  whereas  the  ingenuity  displayed  is  something  often 
worthy  of  much  praise,  if  used  openly,  without  regard  to 
foolish  criticisms.  Those  who  have  the  gift  to  practice  a 
judicious  economy,  to  save  carefully,  because  it  is  right,  and 
not  from  a  niggardly,  miserly  desire  to  hoard,  ŌĆö  in  household 
affairs,  in  dress,  or  in  anything  that  comes  under  their  care, 
ŌĆö  are  endowed  with  a  talent  for  which  they  may  well  be 
proud,  and  which  is  recognized  by  all  sensible  people  as  most 
desirable,  even  by  those  who  are  placed  in  circumstances 
where  the  closest  watchfulness  and  care  may  not  be  a 
necessity. 

But  it  is  not  merely  as  matter  of  necessity  that  we  wish  to 
direct  the  attention  of  all  good  housekeepers  to  the  duty  of 
thrift  and  carefulness  in  the  management  of  their  affairs. 
We  do  not  think  the  poor,  or  those  merely  in  moderate  cir- 
cumstances, should  be  allowed  to  monopolize  all  the  pleas- 
ure which,  if  rightly  viewed,  can  be  secured  by  a  frugal 
use  and  proper  economy  of  the  good  things  of  this  world 
that  may  be  placed  at  our  disposal.  The  rich  have  an 
equal  right  with  the  poor  to  share  in  this  pleasure.  A  proper 
education,  presenting  this  subject  in  the  true  hglit,  will  show 
conclusively  that  the  more  abundant  the  riches,  the  greater 
will  be  the  satisfaction  derived  from  proper  discretion  and 
judgment  in  the  use  and  distribution  of  them.  The  good 
one  can  do,  the  large  amount  of  personal  happiness  to  be 
secured  by  the  good  done,  would  be  sufficient  motives,  even 
if  there  were  no  higher,  for  strict  watchfulness  against  waste, 
even  in  the  smallest  item.  If  one  has  the  means,  and  recog- 
nizes the  greater  convenience  of  making  purchases  in  large 
quantities,  there  is  no  degradation  in  doing  it  hecmise  it  is 


WASTE   NOT  ŌĆö  WANT   NOT.  359 

also  the  better  economy.  But  because  they  have  bought 
by  the  wholesale,  and  filled  their  storerooms  with  large  and 
generous  supplies,  they  must  not  feel  that  they  have  nothing 
to  do  but  fold  their  hands  and  allow  others  to  scatter  their 
stores  recklessly  and  without  judgment.  Making  the  pur- 
chases and  seeing  them  carefully  put  in  place  is  by  no  means 
the  end  of  their  duty.  They  are  but  stewards  of  God's 
bounties,  and  a  steward  may  not  relax  his  care.  If  a  lady 
can  afford  to  keej)  a  housekeeper,  and  is  willing  to  submit  to 
the  rule  and  tyranny  of  one,  rather  than  burden  herself  with 
the  entire  charge  of  a  house,  we  can  only  say,  "  There  is  no 
accounting  for  tastes,"  and  will  not  presume  to  doubt  her 
right  to  do  so ;  but  even  then,  after  having  thrown  off  tlie 
supervision  of  the  household,  and  all  the  details  connected 
with  its  care,  we  believe  every  one  should  still  retain  suffi- 
cient responsibility  to  be  sure  that  the  housekeeper  is  faith- 
ful, capable,  and  willing  at  all  times  to  render  a  satisfac- 
tory account  of  her  stewardship ;  and  the  mistress  should 
be  able  to  know,  also,  by  these  accounts,  if  she  is  true  to 
her  trust.  If  this  was  generally  understood  to  be  the  rule 
with  aU,  there  woidd  be  less  unfaithful  stewardship,  less 
defalcation  in  the  household  certainly,  if  not  everywhere 
else. 

But  the  injury  done  to  subordinates  by  extravagance  is 
one  of  the  worst  features  of  this  evil.  Our  servants  are  quick 
imitators,  and  if  the  mistress  is  easy  and  careless  in  her  ex- 
penditures, the  maid  soon  learns  to  follow  her  example,  and 
so  will  waste  the  material  put  into  her  hands.  It  does  not 
take  long  to  teach  one  of  the  improvident  class,  from  whicli 
our  servants  usually  come,  a  lesson  which  not  only  leads  her 
to  be  careless  of  the  property  of  others,  even  when  she  has 
no  thought  or  intention  of  being  dishonest,  but  Avholly  unfits 
her  for  saving  her  own  earnings  or  managing  a  home  of  her 
own.     Hence  we  see  all  around  us  those  who  have  lived  in 


360      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

wealthy  families  marrying,  with  no  knowledge  of  providing 
for  a  family,  or  of  using  the  little  they  have  with  economy. 
So  they  sink  down,  year  after  year,  into  deeper  poverty  and 
wretchedness  ;  ending,  perhaps,  in  the  poorhouse  ;  when  if  the 
lessons  learned  in  their  employer's  house  had  been  those  of 
true  economy,  they  luiglit  now  be  living  in  neat  and  com- 
fortable homes. 


LXXXIV. 

MAKING  CAKE  AND   PASTRY. 

ONE  of  our  young  friends,  speaking  of  her  troubles, 
says  :  ŌĆö 

"  I  must  have  cake  in  the  house,  but  shrink  from  the  at- 
tempt to  make  it;  and  in  my  brief  experience  in  housekeeping 
have,  so  far,  depended  on  the  bake-shops ;  for  I  know  notliing 
about  such  work,  and  won't  let  my  girl  see  me  trying  it,  lest 
she  find  out  what  a  novice  her  mistress  is.  If  I  should  put 
all  the  materials  for  my  cake  together,  in  tlie  most  careful 
manner,  and  when  it  is  taken  from  the  oven  find  that  it  was 
not  good,  /  should  not  know  if  the  failure  arose  from  my 
want  of  skill  in  preparing  it,  or  from  my  girl's  carelessness  in 
baking  it ;  but  she  would  doubtless  know  whose  the  fault  Avas, 
and  I  am  dreadfully  afraid  it  would  prove  to  have  been  my 
own,  I  don't  understand  much  about  cooking,  and  still  less, 
I  fear,  how  to  judge  of  the  quality  of  the  materials  I  must 
use  in  cooking." 

In  the  first  place,  bear  in  mind  always,  in  purchasing,  that 
it  is  cheaper  in  the  end  to  buy  the  best,  and  in  no  one  article 
is  this  so  manifest  as  in  flour.  Get  the  best  in  market,  even 
if  you  pay  an  extra  price,  and  notice  the  brand.  Try  the 
flour  faithfully,  and  if  it  proves  satisfactory,  "  make  a  note 


MAKING   CAKE   AND   PASTRY.  361 

of  it,"  and  continue  to  furnish  yourself  with  that  kind, 
unless,  after  a  few  times,  you  find  it  deteriorates. 

Good  flour  will  adhere,  slightly  pressed  together  in  the 
hand  ;  and  when  you  unclasp  your  hand,  the  lines  in  the  palm 
will  be  plainly  seen  on  the  flour  you  have  held  so  tightly. 
Dough  from  good  flour  will  not  be  a  clear,  blue  white,  but 
yellowish,  and,  when  well  kneaded,  will  not  stick  to  the 
hand. 

We  should  have  said,  in  the  first  place,  by  inquiries  and 
observation  secure  a  good,  honest,  rehable  grocer,  ŌĆö  one  who 
will  triily  endeavor  to  serve  you  with  the  best ;  having  satis- 
fied yourself  that  you  can  trust  him,  you  Avill  find  his  judg- 
ment will  assist  you  out  of  many  uncertainties,  until  you  have, 
by  experience,  learned  to  trust  your  own. 

The  same  rule  for  buying  holds  good  of  all  groceries.  Biiy 
the  best.  You  will  save  money  and  insure  comfort  by  it. 
There  is  no  more  economy  in  buying  cheap  sugar  than  cheap 
flour.  A  barrel  of  pure,  clear,  granulated  sugar  will  last 
longer,  and  in  the  end  be  cheaper,  than  any  of  the  cofiee  or 
brown  sugars. 

Before  collecting  your  materials  for  making  cake  or  pies, 
see  that  your  stove  or  range  is  in  good  order;  the  grate 
shaken  free  from  ashes ;  all  the  fuel  needed  for  the  cook- 
ing added  and  burning  clear.  Be  careful  that  no  doors  or 
windows  are  opened,  so  that  the  air  will  blow  across  the 
stove.  No  oven  can  bake  well  if  this  is  not  prevented, 
or  if  the  sun  shines  across  it.  "We  all  know  that  if  this 
happens,  the  coal  will  soon  look  whitish,  instead  of  burning 
clear  and  lively. 

Having  the  fire  and  oven  in  a  proper  condition,  you  can 
now  prepare  for  making  bread,  cake,  or  pastry.  Of  course 
you  wiU  have  a  large,  clean  apron,  and  fold,  not  push,  your 
sleeves  back  above  the  elbow.  A  sack  apron,  with  high  neck 
and  short  sleeves,  made  long  and  fidl  enough  to  cover  the 
16 


3G2   MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

dress,  is  a  great  convenience,  for  if  suddenly  called  from  your 
work  you  can  throw  it  otf  easily,  leaving  your  dress  in  a  neat, 
presentable  condition.  A  close  net  cap  drawn  over  the  head 
will  prevent  loose  hairs  falling  into  your  work,  and  should  be 
more  used  than  is  common.  A  basin  of  water  and  a  clean 
towel  close  by  are  necessary,  so  that  you  need  not  be  obliged 
to  stop  in  the  midst  of  your  work  to  get  it  in  case  of  any  mis- 
hap. Put  everything  you  will  need  on  the  table.  Be  sure  that 
all  utensils  are  always  put  away  clean,  so  that,  when  they  are 
next  wanted,  you  will  not  be  hindered  to  do  more  than  wipe 
them  free  from  the  dust  which  may  have  gathered  upon  them. 
Scrupulous  neatness  about  all  your  cooking-utensils  should 
never  be  forgotten.  If  iron,  tin,  wood,  or  earthen  vessels  are 
set  aside  without  being  scrubbed  perfectly  clean  and  wiped 
dry,  you  will  waste  much  time  when  next  they  are  needed, 
aside  from  risking  a  moldy  or  rusty  taste  in  your  food. 

A  good- sized  bread  or  molding  board,  white  and  clean, 
perfectly  dry  and  smooth,  should  be  placed  on  the  table. 
It  keeps  the  flour,  sugar,  etc.  that  may  fall,  from  the  table, 
and  is  readily  lifted,  with  all  the  soiled  dishes  on  it,  to 
the  sink  for  washing,  ŌĆö  thus  saving  much  litter  and  many 
steps.  Learn  to  cook  without  gathering  a  large  number  of 
things  about ;  after  a  little  practice,  you  wiU  be  surprised  to 
see  how  few  things  are  really  needed,  and  how  much  confu- 
sion and  how  many  steps  can  be  avoided  by  a  little  manage- 
ment. 

In  making  cake,  dry  and  sift  the  flour,  roll  the  sugar,  if  at 
aU  lumpy  (granulated  sugar  will  not  lump),  and  put  it  in 
separate  bowls  or  pans.  Wash  the  butter,  for  cake  or  pastry, 
and  put  it  into  ice- water;  weigh  or  measure  the  sugar 
and  milk  needed.  Eaisins  should  be  stoned,  the  citron  cut 
in  thin  slices,  and  currants  washed  and  picked  over,  covered 
closely,  and  put  away  in  a  cool  place  the  night  before  they 
are  needed. 


MAKING  CAKE  AND   PASTRY.  3G3 

These  materials  all  collected,  butter  the  pans.  Ii'  for  cake, 
line  them  witli  clean  white  paper,  well  buttered.  Use  butter, 
instead  of  lard  or  cMppings,  as  they  may  give  an  unpleasant 
taste  to  the  under  crust.  Cake  baked  in  butter-lined  pans 
does  not  burn  so  readily  on  the  bottom,  K  the  cake  does  not 
require  long  baking,  unbuttered  paper  will  answer,  as  it  Avill 
peel  off  readily  when  the  cake  is  cool.  Have  some  clean 
paper  at  hand  to  cover  the  top  of  the  cake,  if  it  begins  to 
scorch. 

The  white  paper  used  to  print  our  newspapers  on  is  as  good 
for  buttering  and  lining  eake-j^ans  as  the  more  expensive 
letter-paper,  and  is  also  very  nice  to  cover  shelves  Avith,  or  lay 
in  the  bottoms  of  drawers.  Two  or  three  dozen  sheets  will 
last  a  good  while,  be  of  little  expense,  and  very  convenient 
for  many  purposes. 

Eggs  that  are  to  be  used  in  cake  should  be  put  into  cold 
water  in  summer,  while  you  are  making  your  preparations, 
until  ready  to  use  tliem.  Then  break  each  one  separately  into 
a  cup,  to  see  if  it  is  good ;  but  by  breaking  all  into  the  dish 
you  beat  them  in,  you  risk  ruining  the  whole  by  one  bad  egg. 
If  good,  turn  it  into  the  dish,  and  proceed  the  same  way  with 
the  others.  Have  your  nutmegs  grated,  and  all  other  spices 
ready. 

These  preliminaries  attended  to,  (and  it  takes  but  a  few 
minutes  to  have  all  in  readiness  when  you  have  done  it  rightly 
and  methodically,)  begin  to  put  the  materials  together.  First 
beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  till  white  and  creamj^  ; 
then  beat  the  eggs,  ŌĆö  the  yelks  and  whites  separately  always, 
as  whites  requu-e  longer  beating  than  yelks.  Strain  the  yelks 
after  beating,  and  add  to  them  well-beaten  butter  and  sugar ; 
then  the  spices  ;  stir  in  the  flour  gradually,  before  using  the 
sweet  or  sour  milk  needed.  If  you  use  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar,  the  latter  should  be  sifted  with  the  flour,  and  the  soda, 
dissolved  in  cool  milk  or  water,  ŌĆö  never  in  hot  water, ŌĆö  should 


3G4   MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

be  Ō¢Āadded  after  the  milk.  If  pre2oared  flour  is  used,  no  soda 
or  cream  of  tartar  can  be  put  in  at  all.  Beat  the  batter  very 
light,  flour  the  currants  and  raisins  and  stir  in  ;  then  add  the 
whites,  beaten  stiff,  the  last  thing.  After  they  are  added,  the 
batter  must  not  be  beaten  hard,  ŌĆö  only  enough  to  have  it 
thoroughly  incorporated  with  the  dough.  In  beating  the 
whites,  do  not  stop  after  you  begin  till  quite  stiff,  else  they 
will  "  go  back,"  and  then  they  will  not  come  up  light  again. 

In  raised  cake,  put  in  the  fruit,  rolled  in  flour,  just  before 
you  put  the  cake  into  the  oven.  Spread  it  over  the  top  lightly, 
and  press  it  in  but  a  little  way,  else  it  will  aU  sink  to  the 
bottom  and  be  worthless. 

Only  practice  and  watchfulness  can  teach  you  how  to  judge 
correctly  when  cake,  bread,  etc.,  are  done.  If  ever  so  perfectly 
made,  it  wUl  be  heavy  if  taken  from  the  oven  before  being 
thoroughly  baked.  "When  obliged  to  turn  pans  round  in 
the  oven,  do  not  move  them  roughly,  and  never,  if  possible, 
take  cake,  bread,  or  biscuit  out  of  the  oven  to  turn.  The  air 
striking  on  them  will  make  them  heavy  and  solid. 

Cake  made  with  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  should  be  put 
into  the  oven  the  moment  it  is  put  together,  unless,  like 
cookies  or  hard  gingerbread,  it  is  to  be  molded  or  rolled. 
In  that  case  it  is  quite  as  good  to  be  kept  overnight  or  for 
some  hours  before  baking. 

In  making  pastry  use  the  best  butter  you  can  find.  Poor 
butter  is  bad  enough  anywhere,  but  noAvhere  so  detestable  as 
in  pastry.  If  made  Avith  lard  it  looks  nicer,  but  is  by  no 
means  so  good,  and  certainly  much  more  hurtful  than  when 
shortened  with  two  thirds  more  butter  than  lard.  Use  the 
hands  as  little  as  possible  in  making  pastry  ;  either  rub  in  the 
shortening  quickly,  or  chop  it  into  .the  flour,  so  as  not  to  heat 
it  by  your  hands,  particularly  in  warm  weather.  Wet  always 
with  cold  water,  and  in  summer  with  ice-cold  water.  Don't 
touch  it  with  your  hands  after  you  are  ready  to  put  in  the 


MAKING   CAKE  AND   PASTRY.  365 

water,  but  stir  together  with  a  knife  quickly  and.  hghtly,  turn- 
ing it  at  once  upon  the  board  and  roll  out.  Molding  will  make 
it  tough.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  to  a  delicate  brown. 
If  scorched  or  hard  baked,  it  will  be  bitter  and  disagreeable. 
If  your  oven  does  not  bake  so  well  at  the  bottom  as  at  the 
top,  the  bottom  crust  will  be  very  heavy  and  unhealthy. 

Before  rolling  out,  let  your  pastry  stand  on  the  ice,  or  in  a 
cold  place  for  an  hour,  as  it  makes  it  much  more  flaky. 

In  making  puddings,  some  advise  beating  both  whites  and 
yelks  together  and  then  straining  them.  We  prefer  to  beat 
separately,  straining  the  yelks.  The  milk  for  most  pies 
should  be  boiled,  in  which  case  the  eggs  must  be  added  the 
last  thing,  and  after  the  milk  has  become  cool. 

In  batter  puddings,  only  a  little  milk  should  be  added  to 
the  flour  at  a  time,  and  all  the  lumps  beaten  out  smoothly 
before  adding  more,  if  you  would  have  a  light  batter.  "When 
berries  of  any  kind  are  put  into  batter  pudding,  they 
should  be  rolled  in  flour  and  added  to  the  batter  the  last 
thing,  or  they  will  not  mix  well,  and  will  settle  to  the  bottom 
and  be  heavy.  One  third  more  flour  is  requisite  for  a  batter 
pudding  with  fruit  than  when  plain,  except  with  cherries. 
They  need  only  a  little  more. 

If  you  have  no  tin  pudding-boiler,  a  bowl,  with  a  thick 
cloth  tied  tightly  over,  answers  very  well,  or  a  thick  tow  or 
"  butcher's  linen  "  square  cloth.  If  a  cloth  is  used,  wring  it 
out  of  cold  water,  and  then  sprinkle  or  spread  flour  over. 
Tie  the  cloth  or  bag  very  tight,  but  allow  room  to  swell ; 
plunge  at  once  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  which  must  be 
kept  constantly  boiling  until  the  pudding  is  done,  or  it  will 
be  poor  and  watery.  Eeplenish  the  water  as  it  wastes,  by 
pouring  boiHng  water  from  the  teakettle  into  the  pot.  If 
there  is  fruit  in  the  pudding,  it  should  be  turned  over  four 
or  five  times  the  first  half-hour  ;  if  plain  batter,  turn  it  over 
when  it  has  boiled  ten  minutes,  or  the  flour  will  settle. 


366      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

"When  done,  a  boiled  pudding  must  be  plunged  into  cold 
water  a  moment,  to  make  it  separate  from  the  cloth  easily. 
In  cutting  a  boiled  pudding,  dip  the  knife  in  hot  water  for  a 
minute,  or  lay  it  on  the  sides  of  the  pudding  till  warm,  and 
you  can  cut  it  without  making  it  heavy. 

Old  housekeepers  ^vill  think  these  hints  quite  needless, 
but  letters  daily  received  show  them  to  be  very  much  needed 
by  the  young,  with  whom  in  a  short  time  we  intend  to  have 
another  quiet  talk,  from  which  the  old  folks  may  retire. 


LXXXV. 

AS  THY  DAY  SO  SHALL  THY  STRENGTH  BE. 

FROM  those  who  seek  counsel  or  consolation  we  receive 
many  letters  which  we  would  gladly  excuse  ourselves 
from  answering,  by  the  plea  that  such  topics  come  not  under 
our  supervision.  But  we  cannot  feel  that  words  for  "  The 
Household  "  mean  only  information  about  the  washing,  cook- 
ing, and  house-cleaning,  ŌĆö  simply  those  things  which  belong 
to  the  temporal  state  and  bodily  comfort.  We  are  compelled 
to  attach  a  broader  meaning  to  that  word  household.  All 
the  joys  and  sorrows,  the  hopes  and  fears,  all  the  perplex- 
ities and  anxieties  which  the  mother,  even  more  than  the 
mistress,  must  accept  when  she  assumes  her  position  as  the 
head  of  the  home  circle,  cluster  around  the  word  and  rise 
before  her  each  hour  of  the  day,  if  she  conscientiously  tries 
to  do  her  duty.  N'ot  alone  the  health  and  bodily  comfort  of 
those  who  compose  her  kingdom,  but  their  life-long  useful- 
ness and  eternal  happiness,  are  committed  to  her  Avatchful 
care,  and  may  be  Avrecked  by  one  false  step,  one  unguarded 
act,  one  ill-tempered  word  or  unjust  suspicion.     Ah,  to  at- 


AS  THY   DAY  SO   SHALL  THY  STRENGTH   BE.         367 

tempt  to  trace  her  responsibility  through  all  the  life  that  lies 
before  her  is  overwhelming  if  she  has  not  learned  to  feel 
that  '*  as  her  day  so  shall  her  strength  be  "  ! 

At  tunes  the  mother's  life  is  full  of  brightness  and  joyous- 
ness  ;  again,  she  sinks  to  the  depths  of  despondency,  or  trem- 
bles with  wild  forebodings  as  her  multiplying  duties  rise  up 
l)efore  her,  and  she  realizes  how  many  conflicting  characters 
and  dispositions  are  depending  on  her  for  guidance.  No- 
where does  she  feel  this  so  keenly  as  in  the  care  of  her  chil- 
dren. The  consciousness  of  ignorance  or  inability  to  judge 
correctly,  to  act  judicicjusly,  so  as  to  meet  the  wants  of 
each  child  and  be  just  to  all,  oppresses  her.  If  all  were 
alike,  so  that  one  code  of  laws,  one  well-digested  line  of 
action,  would  be  as  appropriate  to  the  whole  as  to  each  indi- 
vidual case,  the  responsibdity  of  rearing  a  family  would  be 
far  less  oppressive. 

But  there  are  no  two  the  same.  Each  differs  so  widely  in 
taste,  disposition,  and  habits,  that  it  necessitates  as  many 
modes  of  management  as  there  are  children  in  the  ftuuily. 
One  is  lo^dng  and  gentle.  The  parents  need  but  express  a 
wish,  and,  through  the  affections,  the  child  finds  its  greatest 
pleasure  in  yielding  its  own  wishes  to  secure  theirs.  Another 
is  timid  and  sensitive  to  the  last  degree.  A  sharp  "  word  at 
random  spoken,"  or  ill-advised  censure,  may  have  "  eternal 
power  through  life  to  wound,"  because  this  very  timidity  in- 
duces a  habit  of  reticence  and  concealment ;  the  child  pre- 
ferring to  endure  the  pain,  rather  than  go  through  the  ordeal 
of  an  explanation  or  justification ;  and  the  next  one  may  be 
too  proud  to  attempt  it,  both  coming  to  the  same  results 
through  widely  different  peculiarities. 

One  is  bold  and  outspoken  ;  another  carelessly,  recklessly 
happy,  forgetting  or  neglecting  all  the  rules  of  home  in  the 
overflowing  joyousness  of  living  ;  another  is  so  under  the  in- 
fluence of  approbativeness,  that  to  please  and  be  approved. 


368      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

crowd  independent,  manly  action  out  of  sight ;  and  the 
mother  is  too  happy,  if  the  power  of  this  peculiarity  does 
not  too  often  draw  the  child  beyond  the  bounds  of  strict 
honor  and  truthfulness. 

And  so  through  a  large  family  you  may  look  in  vain  for 
two  so  similar  in  character  that,  by  taking  that  course  which 
proves  best  for  one,  you  may  safely  guide  the  other  by  it. 

A  mother  of  eight  children,  whose  faith  is  wellnigh  ex- 
hausted, who  is  cast  down  and  wholly  discouraged,  thinks 
she  would  gladly  die  to  escape  the  great  responsibility  of 
managing  them  ;  and  this  responsibility  is  growing  greater 
and  greater  each  year,  as  her  boys  and  girls  are  leaving  baby- 
hood behind,  and  rapidly  springing  up  toward  manhood  and 
womanhood.  While  they  were  little  she  enjoyed  every  mo- 
ment, never  feeling  the  care  a  burden.  By  and  by  one  was 
taken  from  her,  and  for  a  while  she  refused  to  be  comforted, 
till  the  Saviour  spake  and  drew  her  to  him. 

But  while  she  has  evidently  learned  to  believe  in  Jesus,  we 
think  she  has  not  yet  learned  to  trust.  After  her  conversion, 
the  sense  of  her  obligations  to  lead  her  children  by  the 
strait  and  narrow  road  has,  we  think,  pressed  very  heavily 
upon  her,  and  she  is  in  danger,  not  only  of  hedging  the  path 
so  closely  as  to  render  it  distasteful,  and  to  drive  them  from 
it,  but  is  also  depriving  herself  of  all  the  joy  she  might  pos- 
sess by  their  true  and  loving  companionship.  She  becomes 
alarmed  at  every  act  which  teaches  her  that  her  children  are 
but  mortal,  and  sees  in  it  evidence  conclusive  that  they  are 
rapidly  going  to  destruction. 

She  comes  to  us  for  counsel  and  asks,  "Is  it  because  I  am 
so  sinful  or  so  incompetent,  that  I  do  not  succeed  better  in 
teaching  my  dear  ones  to  forsake  the  evil  and  choose  only 
the  good  1  They  are  loving  and  kind  ;  but  if  their  hearts  are 
not  entirely  astray  from  God,  why  do  they  so  constantly  for- 
get all  I  try  to  teach  them,  and  do   those  things  which  they 


AS  THY   DAY  SO  SHALL  THY  STRENGTH  BE.         369 

know  I  think  wrong  1     Did  you  ever  feel  discouraged  and 
almost  hopeless  1 " 

Yes,  0  yes  !  And  voluntarily  threw  away  half  the  com- 
fort every  mother  is  entitled  to  when  her  children  are  young 
and  ever  with  her.  Anxious  mothers  never  fully  remember 
the  days  of  their  own  youth,  or  realize  that  half  of  what 
they  call  sin  is  but  the  overflow  of  bright,  young  spirits, 
ready  to  effervesce  and  sparkle  a  little  beyond  the  strict  lines 
that  the  mother,  in  her  more  sedate  years,  has  marked  out  as 
the  proper  bounds.  Then  mothers  are  so  full  of  apprehen- 
sion, so  easily  alarmed !  "  The  evils  of  this  life  appear 
like  rocky  precipices,  ŌĆö  rugged  and  barren  when  seen  at  a 
distance  ";  and  they  are  sure  their  children  will  stumble  and 
fall,  and  be  destroyed  by  them.  But  wait  and  tntst.  When 
the  great  pressure  of  present  care  is  somewhat  lifted,  and  the 
children,  one  by  one,  go  out  from  your  immediate  influence, 
and  little  grandchildren  rise  up  about  you,  ŌĆö  for  whom, 
though  you  dearly  love  them,  you  do  not  feel  the  full  respon- 
sibility, ŌĆö  you  will  find  on  a  nearer  approach  to  these  "  rocky 
precipices  "  which  so  frightened  you,  "  that  there  are  many 
fruitful  spots  and  refreshing  springs  mixed  with  the  harsh- 
ness and  deformities  of  nature."  And  remember,  above  all 
things,  that  it  is  folly  to  add  all  the  possible  cares  and  bur- 
dens of  the  future  to  those  which  can  come  to  you  only  day 
by  day. 

"  Does  each  day  iipon  the  wing 
Its  allotted  burden  bring  ? 
Load  it  not  besides  with  sorrow 
Which  belongeth  to  the  morrow. 
Strength  is  promised,  strength  is  given, 
When  the  heart  by  God  is  riven ; 
"Bnt  fnredate  the  day  of  woe, 
And  alo7ie  thou  bear'st  the  blow. 


"  One  thing  only  claims  thy  care : 
Seek  thou  first,  by  faith  and  prayer, 


16* 


370      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Tliat  all-glorious  world  above,  ŌĆö 
Scene  of  rigliteousness  and  love  ; 
And,  whate'er  thou  need'st  below. 
He  thou  tnistest  will  bestow." 


LXXXVI. 


WHAT    WE    KNOW    NOT    NOW    WE    SHALL    KNOW 
HEREAFTER. 

STRANGE  how  natural  it  is  for  each  individual  to  feel 
that  there  are  no  troubles,  no  sorrows,  so  severe  as  his 
own  !  How  ready  we  are  to  feel  that  if  the  lessons  our  Fa- 
ther is  teaching  us  were  such  as  others  around  us  were  learn- 
ing, we  could  surely  bear  them  with  fortitude  ! 

The  mother  whom  we  spoke  of  in  the  last  article,  like  many 
more  who  fully  understand  her  difficulties,  ŌĆö  for  they  are 
passing  over  the  same  rough  road,  ŌĆö  felt  her  trust  and  faith 
failing ;  yea,  would  "  gladly  lie  down  and  die,"  before  half 
her  threescore  years  and  ten  were  accomplished,  might  she. 
escape  the  responsibility  of  teaching  her  children,  and  using 
her  best  faculties  (no  one  is  asked  to  do  any  more)  to  train 
them  up  into  noble  men  and  women.  The  task  appeared  so 
hard,  the  way  so  long,  and  her  faith  so  weak  ! 

Now  another  mother  claims,  at  least,  our  fullest  sympathy, 
ŌĆö  a  Eachel,  "  mourning  for  her  children,  and  refusing  to  be 
comforted,  because  they  are  not."  One  after  another  has 
been  taken  from  her,  and  each  one  at  "  the  most  interesting 
age." 

"When  is  this  "  most  interesting "  age  1  Ō¢Ā  Can  a  mother 
draw  the  line  1  In  early  babyhood  the  precious  gift  nestles 
in  her  bosom,  and  lives  entirely  through  her  life,  ŌĆö  so  de- 
pendent on  her  for  every  care  and  comfort,  that  no  one  else 


WE  SHALL  KNOW   HEREAFTER,  371 

can  attempt  to  supply  her  place.  Utterly  helpless  as  the 
babe  is,  when  the  mother  realizes  how  necessary  to  its  life  is 
her  ceaseless  watchfulness,  can  there  be  any  period  when  it 
wiU  be  so  interesting,  so  dear  to  her  heart,  as  now,  in  this 
state  of  complete  dependence  1 

Cut  slowly  it  emerges  from  this  helpless  condition.  Its 
first  recognition,  its  first  smiles  and  playfulness,  are  all  be- 
witching. What  can  be  more  lovely  1  A  few  weeks  pass, 
and  it  can  sit  alone  ;  then  it  begins  to  creep ;  now,  with 
what  absorbing  interest  the  first  steps  are  watched,  and  com- 
mented upon  with  a  pride  and  earnestness  as  if  no  child 
ever  did  all  these  things  before.  The  mother's  heart  is  over- 
flowing Avith  love  and  tenderness ;  but  God  calls,  and  the 
lovely  babe  is  forever  hid  from  her  sight. 

How  can  she  bear  it  1  Whose  sorrow  was  ever  like  unto 
hers  1  Why  is  it  that  God  has  sent  this  trial  ?  What  lesson 
can  be  taught  by  it,  that  will  do  half  the  good  which  that 
child's  presence  would  have  accomplished'?  What  is  there 
in  the  care,  the  anxieties  of  watching  over  its  maturing, 
which  can  be  thought  a  hardship  1  How  joyfully  would 
this  mother  bear  all  this,  if  the  life  of  her  child  might  have 
been  spared  !  She  longs  to  lie  down  and  die,  not  because 
of  the  responsibihty  which  she  knows  would  have  increased 
with  every  added  year,  ŌĆö Ō¢Ā  she  could  have  trusted  her  Father 
to  give  her  strength  sufiicient  for  those  duties.  Her  faith  and 
trust  fail,  because  God  took  her  child  from  her,  and  in  her 
anguish  she  cries,  "  Why  am  I  thus  bereaved  1 "  In  answer 
to  these  sad  questions  we  can  only  say,  "  What  ye  know  not 
now  ye  shall  know  hereafter."  In  the  first  bitterness  of 
this  grief,  there  is  nothing  more  to  be  said. 

Another  little  one  is  given  to  soothe  the  mother.  She 
watches  it  with  trembling  heart,  through  all  the  stages  that 
her  first-born  had  passed.  Every  unusual  motion,  every  cry 
the  child  utters,  fills  her  heart  with  alarm ;  some  fresh  cause 


372      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

for  fear  is  found  daily.  But  the  little  one  thrives,  has 
reached  and  passed  all  the  pomts  of  deep  interest  which 
once  before  the  mother  watched  with  such  pride.  ISTow  it 
begins  to  lisp  her  name,  and  shortly  its  cmaning  prattle  is 
the  theme  of  constant  thought  and  conversation.  "When  she 
rises  in  the  morning,  ŌĆö  at  the  table,  by  the  fireside,  ŌĆö  it 
is  again  and  again  repeated,  a  many-times-told  tale,  but  al- 
ways fresh,  always  new  and  beautiful.  The  mother  has 
nothing  else  with  which  to  entertain  the  friends  who  call, 
and  truly  believes  that  nothing  could  be  told  so  new  or  so 
pleasing.  In  her  absorbing  dehght  over  each  new  grace  and 
beauty  that  is  day  by  day  developing,  has  she  always  re- 
membered the  Giver  of  her  treasure"?  or,  has  her  love  be- 
come idolatry  1 

Again  death  enters,  and  just  as  the  mother  has  begun  to 
feel  secure,  her  darling  is  snatched  away  from  her.  In  this 
hour  of  anguish,  what  can  comfort  1  Her  heart  rises  up  in 
rebellion,  and  she  sees  only  cruelty  in  this  second  stroke. 
In  her  despair  she  accuses  God  wrongfully.  She  demands 
the  reason  why,  "What  evil  have  I  done,  that  I  am  be- 
reaved of  my  children  1 "  And  friends  can  only  weep  with 
her,  saying,  "  What  ye  know  not  now  ye  shall  know  here- 
after ! " 

We  grieve  with  you,  poor  stricken  mother.  We  know 
every  step  of  the  thorny  road  you  are  crossing ;  but  do  not 
allow  these  trials  to  make  your  heart  grow  cold  and  bitter. 
You  say,  "  I  see  nothing  but  injustice  in  these  dispensations 
which  have  left  my  home  so  desolate.  Another  child  has 
been  given  us,  but  I  am  trying  to  steel  my  heart  against  it, 
for  anything  I  love  is  taken  from  me." 

This  is  all  wrong.  You  say  that  your  husband  is  kind,  and 
bearing  his  own  sorroAV  for  the  loss  of  the  little  one  silently, 
that  he  may  comfort  you.  Should  you  not  remember  that 
he  has  been  equally  bereaved,  and  may  need  your  sympathy  1 


WE  SHALL   KNOW   HEREAFTER.  373 

"  Bear  ye  one  another's  burdens,"  antl  by  so  doing  will  you 
not  find  strength  to  rise  above  this  affliction,  so  far  that  you 
can  perform  your  duties  with  comfort,  if  not  with  cheerful- 
ness ]  You  say  you  have  no  pleasure  in  the  little  one  still 
left  you.  May  it  not  have  been  sent  as  a  ministering  spirit, 
to  awaken  in  your  heart  a  deeper  love  and  gratitude  for  the 
mercies  that  still  surround  you,  and  bring  you  nearer  to  the 
Father,  who  often  "  wounds  to  heal,  afflicts  to  save "  1 
There  are  trials  harder  to  bear  than  those  which  seem  to 
have  so  nearly  crushed  you.  When,  instead  of  the  prattle 
and  frolic  of  babyhood,  the  child  becomes  old  enough  to  be 
taught  how  to  assist  the  mother  in  various  Avays,  ŌĆö  begins 
to  read  and  study,  showing  a  mind  rapidly  maturing,  giving 
promise  of  no  common  strength  of  character,  ŌĆö  do  you  not 
see  that  it  must  become  even  more  precious  with  each  new 
development  1  Yet  when  incurable  disease  fastens  upon  it, 
and  the  parents  see  their  bright  and  joyous  child  slowly  but 
surely  fading  from  their  home,  is  not  this  a  heavier  calamity 
than  when  our  little  ones  are  taken  from  their  cradles  after 
only  a  few  days  of  suffering  1 

"We  have  seen  a  mother  for  months  hold  back  her  tears, 
and  minister  to  the  wants  of  the  sufferer ;  and,  hardest  of  all, 
sit  by  the  bedside  and  listen  to  the  child's  anxious  question- 
ings, ŌĆö  soothing  its  fears,  when  knowing  that  it  is  just  enter- 
ing the  dark  valley ;  singing  of  the  peace  and  joys  that  lie 
beyond  ;  step  by  step,  as  death  came  nearer,  leading  this 
child  of  her  love  down  even  to  the  banks  of  the  "  river  that 
flows  close  by  the  throne  of  God,"  that  when  its  timid  feet 
touch  the  Avaters  she  may  herself  almost  lay  the  child  into 
the  Saviour's  arms,  who  is  waiting  to  receive  and  bless  it.  I  n 
this,  cannot  you  imagine  that  there  is  a  depth  of  anguish 
which  you  have  not  yet  flithomed  ?  As  our  children  groAV  to- 
ward manhood  and  womanhood  with  promise  of  rich  maturity, 
does  not  our  love  grow  with  their  growth,  and  strengthen 


374      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

with  their  strength'?  When  their  education  is  just  com- 
pleted, and  they  are  almost  ready  to  begin  life's  work,  if 
taken  from  us,  is  not  the  loss  greater,  the  desolation  more 
appalling,  than  that  which  you  have  known  1 

But  your  sorrow,  though  yet  unsanctified,  must  be,  to  us, 
held  sacred  from  severe  judgment.  Nature  will  rule  for  a 
time,  and  may  compel  utterance  for  which  you  can  hardly 
be  held  responsible.  We  only  fear  that  your  grief  may  be- 
come morbid  and  your  heart  refuse  to  see  the  silver  lining 
which  may  be  discerned  in  every  cloud.  Why  these  afflic- 
tions have  been  sent  we  cannot  tell.  Our  Father  sees  when 
our  hearts  have  turned  from  their  allegiance,  and  knows  best 
what  sharp  lessons  will  be  necessary  to  bring  us  back  to 
him.  He  may  see  that  your  love  has  blinded  you  to  the 
solemn  duties  that  rest  upon  you,  and  to  save  the  children 
from  the  eifects  of  injudicious  indulgence,  may  have  taken 
them  to  himself,  and  by  their  loss  design  to  draw  you 
nearer. 

Some  lines,  sent  us  by  Mrs.  Crann,  the  author  of  "  Little 
Foxes,"  will  show  you  more  clearly  what  we  would  convey 
than  any  words  of  oiu:s  :  ŌĆö Ō¢Ā 

"We  sat  within  a  lighted  room, 

My  baby  boy  and  I ; 
But  empty  were  my  loving  arras, 

Where  he  was  wont  to  lie 
And  look  np  fondly  in  my  face, 

For  pretty  toys  were  near  ; 
And,  though  I  called  him  lovingly, 

The  darling  woiUd  not  hear. 

"  I  yearned  to  clasp  him  to  my  heart, 

But  wooed  him  all  in  vain ; 
To  leave  his  play  and  come  to  me 

Would  give  him  too  much  jjain. 
I  took  the  candle  in  my  hand, 

And,  with  a  breath  of  air, 
Extinguished  its  soft,  cheerful  light. 

And  made  all  darkness  there. 


UNTIL  DEATH  DO  US  PART.  375 

"  And  soon  I  heard  a  sweet-toned  voice, 
To  whicli  I  love  to  hark, 
Cry,  '  Mother,  take  me  in  your  arras  ! 
I  'm  frightened  in  tlie  dark ! ' 
,  And  tlieu  I  caught  the  svi^eet  boy  uji, 
And  felt  him  clasp  me  tight, 
And  knew  that  I  was  needed  then. 
Because  there  was  no  light. 

"And  as  my  darling  grew  in  years, 

The  brightness  of  my  joy 
Made  me  adore  our  Father  less 

Than  I  adored  my  boy. 
He  called  me  in  a  tender  tone,  ŌĆö 

His  voice  is  always  mild,  ŌĆö 
But  I  refused  to  go  to  Him, 

And  played  on  with  my  child. 

"  And  then  He  blew  my  candle  out 

By  stopping  Harry's  breath  ; 
And  in  the  anguish  of  that  grief. 

The  darkness  of  that  death, 
I  cried  out  in  a  trembling  voice. 

And  with  an  aching  brow, 
*  I  'm  coming  to  thee,  0  my  God  !  . 

For  my  heart  needs  thee  now. ' " 


LXXXVIL 

UNTIL  DEATH  DO  US  PART. 

"  A  WIFE "  writes  that  she  has  three  children ;  has 
7v  been  married  eight  years,  and  thinks  it  would  be 
pleasant  to  be  relieved  from  all  home  cares,  and  travel  for  a 
few  months.  Her  mother  would  take  her  children  home,  so 
that  she  could  feel  perfectly  at  ease  aboiit  them,  but  her  hus- 
band objects.  He  cannot  possibly  go  with  her,  and  though 
it  would  be  much  pleasanter  to  have  him  accompany  her,  yet 


370      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

she  could  go  with  friends,  who  would  give  her  every  atten- 
tion. Her  husband  is  abundantly  able  to  afford  her  this 
pleasure,  but  objects  to  her  leaving  him,  ŌĆö  "  having  his 
home  broken  up,  and  his  children  separated  from  him " 
(sensible  man  ! ).  "  He  endeavors  to  jDcrsuade  her  to  be  con- 
tented at  home  until  by  and  by  he  can  take  wife  and  chil- 
dren on  this  pleasure  trip." 

IS'ow  she  declares  that  she  has  no  faith  in  these  hy  and 
hyes,  with  which  husbands  seek  to  keep  their  wives  from  en- 
joying the  present,  by  promises  for  the  future.  She  thinks 
him  unreasonably  selfish,  and  feels  that  she  would  be  justified 
in  cutting  loose  from  such  bondage  occasionally,  and  taking 
her  pleasure,  as  she  constantly  sees  so  many  other  ladies 
doing. 

We  are  pained  with  the  whole  tone  of  this  letter,  of 
which  we  give  but  a  few  lines.  ^Notwithstanding  her  com- 
plaints and  fault-finding,  the  writer  cannot  hide  the  fact 
that,  from  her  own  showing,  she  has  a  pleasant  home,  an  in- 
dulgent husband,  and  wealth  sufficient  to  obviate  any  neces- 
sity for  labor  or  care,  more  than  is  required  to  superintend 
her  domestic  affairs,  and  look  after  her  children,  as  every 
mother  and  housekeeper  pledges  herself  to  do  when  she  en- 
ters the  marriage  state.  It  is  natural  that  her  husband 
should  object  to  her  leaving  him  for  months,  deprive  him 
of  his  children,  and  disorganize  his  home,  for  her  own  grati- 
fication. 

"  Until  death  do  us  part^^  the  promise  reads  :  not  sim- 
ply for  a  few  years,  at  the  end  of  which  time  the  whole 
domestic  economy  may  become  deranged  simply  for  personal 
pleasure,  apart  from  the  family. 

We  see  nothing  that  this  dissatisfied  woman  has  to  com- 
plain of,  but  are  inchned  to  think  she  has  been  infected 
with  those  perrdcious  doctrines  which  have  led  to  loud  com- 
plaints about  women,  ŌĆö  defrauded  of  her  rights,   woman's 


UNTIL  DEATH  DO   US  PART.  377 

cruel  subjugation,  ŌĆö  doctrines  with  which  we  have  less  and 
less  patience,  because  we  see  more  and  more  clearly  the  mis- 
takes and  mischief  which  have  sprung  and  will  continue  to 
spring  from  them,  unless  the  "  plague  is  stayed."  No  doubt 
many  a  Avoman  is  oppressed  and  treated  unkindly,  often 
cruelly,  and  made  to  feel  that  she  is  placed  by  her  husband 
in  a  suliordinate  position,  instead  of  reigning  ivith  him  over 
their  home,  ŌĆö  his  other  self  with  equal  rights  and  power, 
as  is  only  meet,  ŌĆö  having  charge  of  one  department,  while 
he  takes  another  for  which  his  stronger  organization  and 
peculiar  masculine  abilities  are  better  adapted.  The  husband 
to  superintend  the  outside,  severer  duties  :  the  wife  as  God 
prepared  her  to  be,  the  mother  watching  over  infancy,  and 
through  those  duties  made  less  physically  strong,  but  giving 
grace  and  refinement  to  the  home,  which,  without  her,  ŌĆö 
under  masculine  supervision,  ŌĆö  would  degenerate  into  coarse- 
ness and  inelegance. 

"We  know  there  are  many  overtaxed,  broken-down  women 
who  by  kindness  and  just  appreciation  might  have  been 
saved,  and  remained  altogether  lovely  and  refined,  making 
their  homes  like  Paradise  before  the  fall. 

There  are  also  many  broken-down  men,  dispirited,  uneasy 
of  hfe,  ruined  by  the  frivolity,  irritability,  and  extrava- 
gance of  their  wives,  whom  a  refined,  sensible,  loving  woman, 
would  have  redeemed  and  made  happy,  noble,  and  godlike. 

"We  imagine  the  rights  and  the  wrongs  are  about  equally 
divided  on  either  side.  The  deceitfulness  of  the  human 
heart,  the  natural  depravity,  unsubdued,  left  to  run  wild 
and  ungoverned,  seeking  not  the  peace  and  happiness  of  the 
chosen  partner,  but  their  own  selfish  gratification,  has  changed 
many  a  noble  man  into  a  reckless,  uncomfortable,  unprinci- 
pled husband,  or  an  arbitrary  and  harsh  domestic  tyrant. 
And  the  same  selfish  indulgence  and  unregulated  passions 
have  also  changed  many  a  woman,  capable  of  shining  in  her 


378      MOTHERLY  TALKS   WITH  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

appropriate  sphere  as  mother,  or  home  refiner,  into  an  irrita- 
ble, unsatisfied,  fireside  torment. 

But  this  is  wandering  from  the  main  point,  through  a 
train  of  thoughts  very  naturally  evoked  by  the  perusal  of 
the  letter  referred  to.  "We  believe  many  homes  are  injured, 
and  much  dissatisfaction  and  unhappiness  occasioned  by  the 
greatly  increased  disposition  to  travel ;  roaming  each  year 
away  from  home,  and  too  frequently  without  the  companion- 
ship which  should  naturally  be  secured.  A  man  is  often  com- 
pelled by  business  to  be  absent  from  home  for  weeks,  or  even 
months,  to  go  abroad,  and  frequently  when  it  would  be  impos- 
sible for  him  to  take  his  wife  with  him.  Often  one  must  go 
for  health,  while  it  is  important  that  the  other  shoidd  remain 
at  home  to  look  after  their  common  interests.  These  are  mis- 
fortuii?s  which  cannot  be  avoided,  and  must  be  borne  from 
necessity,  not  from  choice. 

But  when  we  see  either  desiring  to  roam,  "  to  go  a  pleas- 
uring "  alone,  when  both  cannot  go,  we  wonder  at  the  folly 
which  is  laying  the  foundation  for  bitter  regret  in  later  years. 
The  marriage  ceremony  is  but  a  mockery,  if  the  two  who 
exchange  vows  are  not  expecting  to  find  their  chief  earthly 
joys  in  each  other's  society.  But  when  they  can  bring  their 
minds  to  a  separation  of  weeks  or  months,  just  for  pleasure, 
we  think  they  little  dream  of  the  heart-aches  they  are  laying 
up  in  store  for  one  another. 

Keep  together  while  you  can.  Death  will  sever  the  bond, 
all  too  soon,  or  sickness  compel  absence,  full  of  fear  and  sad 
forebodings.  It  is  impossible  for  a  husband  and  wife  to 
be  absent  from  each  other  often,  even  for  a  few  weeks  at  a 
time,  without  finding  little  changes  on  their  return.  Every 
one  has  some  peculiarities  of  character  and  disposition  which 
are  not  exactly  congenial ;  but  if  married  young,  before  hab- 
its or  traits  are  fixed  past  change,  all  these  httle  infehcities 
are  softened  or  lost  sight  of  in  daily  communion,  and  man  and 


UNTIL   DEATH   DO   US   PART.  379 

wife  assimilate,  and  grow  more  and  more  of  one  heart  and 
one  mind,  if  happily  mated.  But  let  these  separations,  even 
of  short  duration,  once  begin,  and  they  soon  grow  apart. 
The  natural  traits  and  dissimilarities  which  constant  associa- 
tion have  held  dormant  wake  up,  and  are  less  and  less  easily 
lulled  to  sleep  after  each  separation. 

We  think  women  are  more  injured  by  this  roving  than 
men.  The  latter  are  seldom  long  absent,  except  on  business, 
with  no  leisure  for  pleasure-seeking  while  away  ;  and  in  their 
necessarily  rapid  traveling,  the  hurry,  the  annoyance,  the  loss 
of  creature  comforts,  which  are  found  in  greater  perfection  at 
home,  are  more  felt,  and  usually  the  comforts  and  luxuries  of 
their  own  fireside  are  more  fully  appreciated  on  their  return. 
In  the  whirl  of  business  while  absent,  they  have  little  temp- 
tation to  take  up  any  unusual  line  of  thought  or  action.  But 
a  woman,  unless  she  must  go  for  her  health,  more  frequently 
travels  to  have  a  "  good  time,"  throwing  aside  all  cares,  instead 
of  taking  them  with  her  as  her  husband  does.  In  this  free- 
dom, she  at  once  enters  upon  a  mode  of  life  altogether  differ- 
ent from  that  which  a  wife,  mother,  or  housekeeper  can  have 
at  home.  Her  love  of  nicety  and  order  is  less  disturbed  when 
she  has  only  herself  to  care  for  ;  and  a  selfish  habit,  a  feeling 
of  entire  independence,  is  easily  established,  so  that  when  she 
returns  home  she  finds  it  difficult  to  take  up  again  what  was 
once  a  pleasure,  but  now  seems  more  hke  the  "  burden  of 
life."  The  noise  and  confusion  of  children  or  much  company, 
for  the  care  of  which  she  feels  responsible,  are  far  more 
irksome  than  before  her  "  pleasure  trip."  She  does  not  find 
the  yoke  so  easy  or  the  burden  so  light.  The  habit  of  being 
interested  in  or  sharing  one  another's  cares,  reporting  little 
items  of  daily  news  when  together,  is  destroyed,  and  without 
any  intentional  unkindness  they  have  learned  to  turn  to 
others  for  the  amusement  or  the  social  intercourse  which  was 
once  a  part  of  their  life. 


380      MOTHERLY  TALKS  WITH   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

These  are  not  intentional  sliglds,  bnt  the  changes  which 
repeated  absence  most  naturally  brings.  A  woman  sees  the 
changes  much  sooner  than  a  man,  ŌĆö  sees,  grieves  over  them, 
and  is  made  unhappy  by  them,  if  she  loves  her  husband, 
though  often  too  proud  to  let  it  be  known.  It pleastire  trijys 
are  frequent  or  of  long  duration,  these  changes  are  more 
marked.  Husbands  and  wives,  who  were  once  made  uncom- 
fortable and  restless  if  one  meal  passed  unshared,  learn  after 
a  while,  by  frequent  separations,  to  let  many  pass  with  but 
little  regret.  Separation  has  lost  its  former  importance  in 
their  eyes.  Why  should  it  not  be  so  1  If  death  divides  them, 
however  true  the  sorrow,  time  after  a  while  must  bring  heal- 
ing ;  and  the  heart,  although  there  will  always  be  a  niche 
which  no  one  else  can  occupy,  must,  after  many  days,  turn  for 
comfort  and  companionship  to  other,  if  not  better  friends. 
Sometimes,  perhaps,  in  a  younger  and  fairer,  the  old  love 
is  entirely  lost  sight  of. 

Let  this  discontented  wife,  who,  after  eight  years  of  mar- 
ried life  and  the  care  of  home  and  three  children,  feels  that 
she  should  be  indulged  in  a  vacation  and  freedom  from  these 
responsibilities,  ponder  well  the  probable  consequences  of 
the  steps  she  desires  to  take  in  opposition  to  her  husband's 
wishes.  To  secure  the  short-lived  pleasure  of  a  feAV  months' 
travel,  can  she  afford  to  risk  the  many  changes  she  may  ex- 
pect on  her  return  1  Will  she  be  willing  to  see  that  her 
husband  has  less  confidence  in  her,  less  desire  for  her  society, 
than  formerly ;  that  he  has  learned  that  there  are  many  com- 
forts and  pleasures  to  be  found  outside  his  home?  Is  the 
gratification  worth  the  price  she  may  be  called  to  pay  for  it  ? 

We  have  not  put  this  subject  in  as  clear  and  strong  a  light 
as  Ave  desired ;  but  if  what  we  have  said  may  have  sufficient 
weight  to  lead  this  "  wife,"  and  others  who  are  showing 
indications  of  having  been  infected  with  the  same  restless, 
dissatisfied  spirit,   to   think    long  and   soberly  before   they 


UNTIL  DEATH  DO  US  PART. 


381 


decide,  we  shall  be  thaiildul.  We  do  not  believe  a  true- 
hearted,  sensible  wife  would  willingly  desert  her  post  or 
seek  any  enjoyment  in  which  her  family  cannot  share. 

Keep  your  families  unbroken  ;  together  share  each  other's 
joys  and  sorrows,  so  far  as  possible,  until  death  severs  the 
bond.  That  is  the  wisest,  happiest  way  of  living.  When 
death  compels  separations,  you  will  have  enough  to  regret, 
without  mourning  for  the  days  needlessly  spent  apart. 


PART    II. 
CHOICE    FAMILY    EEOEIPTS. 


CHOICE    FAMILY    EECEIPTS. 


YEAST. 

Yeast.  ŌĆö  Good  yeast  is  indispensable  in  order  to  secure  good 
bread. 

Pare  and  boil  eight  medium-sized  potatoes.  Remove  them  from 
the  water  when  done,  and  put  into  it  one  small  handful  of  loose 
or  two  teaspoonfuls  oH  2)rcssed  hops.  While  these  are  boiling,  mash 
and  roll  the  potatoes  very  smooth,  free  from  lumps  ;  mix  with 

them  three  even  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  half-cup  of  sugar, 

brown  sugar  is  the  best  for  yeast,  ŌĆö  one  even  table-spoonful  of 
ginger,  and  three  of  salt.  Strain  out  the  hops  after  boiling  fifteen 
minutes,  and  pour  the  boiling  water  over  tlie  potatoes,  flour,  etc. 
Stir  well  together,  and  again  set  it  on  the  range  or  stove  till  it 
boils  up  once,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  or  it  will  burn.  This  done, 
pour  it  into  a  large  earthen  bowl  or  stone  pot  to  cool.  When 
blood-warm,  add  one  penny's  worth  of  bakers'  yeast  or  a  yeast- 
cake.  Keep  in  a  warm  place  till  well  raised,  then  put  it  into  a 
stone  jug  ;  cork  and  tie  down  securely. 

One  teacupful  will  raise  three  good-sized  loaves. 

Another.  ŌĆö  Take  one  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  potatoes 
for  dinner  were  boiled  ;  while  it  is  boiling  hot,  thicken  vnth  flour  ; 
add  a  cup  of  yeast  when  the  batter  is  cool.  Set  the  jar  in  which 
it  is  made  in  a  warm  place,  and  it  vnll  be  light  in  a  few  hours 
and  ready  to  use. 

Yeast-Cakes.  ŌĆö  Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  over  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  hops  ;  let  it  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  strain  the 
water  into  a  saucepan  ;  heat  it  boiling  hot,  stir  in  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter,  and  set  it  aside  to  cool.  When  lukewarm, 
put  in  a  teacupful  of  good  yeast,  or  a  yeast-cake  softened  in 
water.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  add  a  tea- 
17  Y 


386  CPIOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

spoonful  of  salt,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  molasses  or  sugar,  and  a 
little  soda.  Then  mix  in  corn  meal  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  roll 
into  a  long  round  roll.  Cut  it  in  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
spread  meal  over  your  board,  and  lay  these  cakes  to  dry.  Turn 
them  frequently  while  drying,  and,  if  possible,  get  them  dried  in 
two  or  three  days,  or  they  may  become  sour.  It  is  well  to  diy 
them  in  the  air,  but  not  in  the  sun.  Put  them  in  bags  in  a  diy 
place  ;  and  when  you  use  one  soak  it  in  milk- warm  water. 

BEEAD. 

General  Rules.  ŌĆö  Five  quarts  of  flour  and  one  quart  of  milk 
or  water  are  suflicient  for  two  loaves  in  quart-pans. 

Rub  shortening,  salt,  and  potatoes,  if  used,  into  the  flour  before 
wetting  it.  The  milk  or  water  for  wetting  should  be  about  milk- 
warm,  and  the  yeast  be  stirred  into  part  of  the  wetting  for  the 
sponge,  or  into  the  w^hole,  if  the  bread  is  to  be  made  without 
sponging  ;  then  pour  it  on  the  flour  and  knead. 

Bread  without  Sponging.  ŌĆö  Sift  five  quarts  of  flour,  cover 
and  set  by  the  fire  to  dry.  Pare  and  Ijoil  five  medium-sized  pota- 
toes. When  done,  drain  them  dry  from  the  water  and  sprinkle 
over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mash  perfectly  smooth  and  free 
from  lumps,  adding  an  even  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  rub  all 
together,  till  potatoes  and  flour  are  perfectly  combined.  Take  a 
pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  potatoes  were  boiled,  and  a  little 
more  than  a  pint  of  milk,  and  when  blood-warm  stir  into  it  one 
cup  of  home-made  or  a  cent's  worth  of  bakers'  yeast.  Pour  it  on 
the  flour  and  potatoes,  and  knead  the  whole  together  without 
sponging.  All  bread  should  be  kneaded  a  full  half-hour,  then 
covered  with  a  clean  bread-cloth,  and  over  that  a  bread-blanket, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  If  mixed  overnight  it  will  be 
ready  for  the  second  molding  before  breakfast  ;  then  make  into 
loaves  and  put  into  the  pans  for  tlie  second  and  last  rising.  When 
light  let  it  be  Avell  baked,  but  not  long  enough  to  make  it  hard 
and  dry.  When  done,  take  from  the  pans,  vsrrap  a  bread-cloth 
round  each  loaf,  and  turn  upper  side  down  into  the  pans,  leaving 
it  there  till  cold.     This  will  help  to  make  the  crust  tender. 

Good  Bread.  ŌĆö  Put  what  flour  will  be  needed  for  two  or  four 
loaves,  according  to  the  size  of  your  family,  into  your  bread  bowl 


BREAD.  387 

or  pan.  Make  a  hole  in  the  niiildle,  pressing  the  flour  compactly 
towards  the  sides  of  the  pan  ;  then  pour  in  sufficient  boiling  water 
to  thoroughly  scald  and  wet  about  one  half  of  the  flour.  When 
cool,  stir  in  one  cupful  of  lively  domestic  yeast  or  a  cent's  worth 
of  bakers',  or,  if  you  prefer,  a  small  cake  of  dried  yeast  pre^dously 
soaked  in  warm  water.  Set  it  near  the  stove  or  in  a  warm  place 
in  cool  weather,  cover  closely  just  before  retiring  at  night,  and  it 
will  be  light  by  morning,  when  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  enough 
more  warm,  but  not  hot,  water  to  wet  all  the  flour  must  be  added  ; 
knead  it  veiy  thoroughly,  and  set  it  to  rise  again.  When  light, 
work  it  again,  and  put  in  the  jians  to  rise  for  the  last  time,  and 
as  soon  as  it  is  light  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  If  the 
oven  is  too  hot  at  first,  the  bread  is  apt  to  get  brown  on  top  and 
bottom  too  soon,  and  then  it  will  not  be  done  in  the  middle.  A 
moderate  oven  at  first  is  best,  increasing  the  heat  gradually  until 
the  bread  is  about  half  done,  when  it  should  be  of  a  steady  heat 
till  the  bread  is  done. 

Bread  with  Sponging.  ŌĆö  Stir  into  three  cjuarts  of  milk-warm 
water  one  even  table-spoonful  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
soft  batter.  To  this  add  the  yeast  above  mentioned,  or,  in  warm 
weather,  use  only  half  as  much.  Set  the  pan  in  a  warm  place  in 
cold  weather,  and  cover  closely  with  a  clean  bread-cloth.  Make 
this  sponge  at  bedtime.  If  the  sponge  is  at  all  sour  in  the  morn- 
ing, dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  water  and  stir  in  ; 
then  work  in  as  much  flour  as  is  needed  to  mold  it  easily,  and 
knead  it  thoroughly.  Make  it  into  small  loaves,  and  see  that  the 
pans  are  well  buttered  and  warmed  when  used.  Keep  them  in  a 
warm  place,  and  cover  with  a  clean  white  bread-cloth.  If  properly 
cared  for,  it  will  be  light  in  an  hour,  and  ready  for  the  oven,  which 
must  be  well  heated.  In  baking  bread  or  cake,  care  should  be 
taken  that  the  top  does  not  broAvn  too  soon,  as  that  will  prevent 
its  rising  up  light,  as  it  otherwise  would.  If  this  makes  too  many 
loaves,  it  is  easy  to  make  only  half  or  one  third  the  quantity. 

To  make  Bread  from  Flour  that  runs.  ŌĆö  Put  what  flour 
you  need  in  your  pan,  and  pour  enough  boiling  water  over  to 
just  wet  all  of  it,  but  not  to  make  it  thin  ;  sprinkle  in  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  a  spoonful  of  butter  ;  stir  it  up  with  a  large 
wooden  spoon  until  sure  that  all  the  flom*  is  scalded  ;  then  cover 


388  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

and  let  it  stand  till  cool  enough  to  add  the  yeast.  So  that  the 
yeast  is  sweet  and  lively,  you  can  use  any  kind  you  prefer, 
bakers'  or  home-made.  When  the  flour  is  siifficiently  cool,  clear 
to  the  bottom,  add  your  yeast,  and  give  the  whole  mass  a  faithful 
kneading,  adding  more  tepid  milk  or  water,  if  needed.  Knead 
till  the  dough  cleaves  from  your  hand  easily,  then  set  it  to  rise. 
When  very  light,  knead  again,  put  into  the  pans,  and  leave  it  to 
rise  once  more  ;  then  bake  as  directed  above. 

By  this  method  running  flour  can  often  be  conquered,  and 
bread  thus  scalded  will  be  found  uncommonly  sweet  and  tender. 

Bread  by  Scalding  the  Flour.  ŌĆö  Pour  enough  boiling  wa- 
ter on  two  quarts  of  flour  to  wet  it  thoroughly  ;  add  two  even 
table-spoonfuls  of  butter ;  stir  all  well  together,  and  let  it  stand 
till  cool ;  then  add  a  small  cup  of  domestic  yeast,  or  not  quite  a 
penny's  worth  of  bakers'  yeast ;  mold  it  fifteen  minutes,  then  set 
by  the  fire  to  rise.  When  it  begins  to  crack  on  top,  put  it  on  the 
molding-board,  beat  it  with  the  rolling-pin,  and  chop  and  mold 
alternately  for  twenty  minutes  ;  then  make  into  loaves,  prick 
them  on  top,  and  set  them  by  the  fire  to  rise  once  more.  As  soon 
as  light,  bake.  Bread  made  in  this  way  is  not  cpite  so  white,  but 
is  very  sweet  and  light.  If  flour  is  at  all  inclined  to  "  run,"  the 
scalding  will  stop  it. 

To  make  Stale  Bread  fresh.  ŌĆö  Put  the  loaf  into  a  clean 
tin,  and  cover  closely  to  exclude  all  water,  and  set  into  a  steamer 
or  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour  ;  then  remove  it  from 
the  tin  and  it  will  look  like  fresh  bread,  and  be  really  almost 
equal  to  a  new  loaf. 

Graham  Bread.  ŌĆö  Two  quarts  of  unbolted  wheat,  half  a  cent's 
worth  of  bakers'  yeast,  or  half  a  teacup  of  home-made  yeast  ;  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  molasses,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
warm  water  or  milk  and  water  enough  to  make  a  stifi"  dough. 
Beat  this  well,  or,  wetting  your  hands  in  water,  mix  it  very  thor- 
oughly ;  cover  closely,  and  let  it  rise  light,  ŌĆö  about  six  hours  in 
warm  weather,  or  in  Ō¢Āwinter  mix  just  before  going  to  bed.  When  it 
is  light,  wet  your  hands  in  cold  water  and  put  it  into  well-buttered 
pans.  Let  it  rise  in  the  pans  about  an  inch  ;  an  hour  will  gener- 
ally be  long  enough.  Bake  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  until  it  is  very 
well  baked,  but  not  scorched. 


BREAD.  389 

Or,  take  three  small  cups  of  the  sponge  from  your  wheat 
bread  ;  when  well  risen  add  to  it  two  spoonfuls  of  moLosses,  half 
a  teacup  of  Indian  meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  pint 
of  warm  milk  and  water  ;  stir  in  enough  Graham  flour  to  make 
a  stitf  dough,  and  cover  closely  and  set  to  rise.  When  light,  fill 
your  pans  half  full ;  let  it  rise  once  more,  and  bake  carefully. 

Or,  pour  boiling  water  over  one  quart  of  Graham  flour  ;  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  molasses.  Let  it  stand 
till  lukewarm  ;  then  add  half  a  cup  of  home-made  yeast,  or  part 
of  a  penny's  worth  of  bakers'  yeast ;  dip  your  hands  in  cold  water, 
and  mix  it  thoroughly.  If  too  stift",  add  more  warm  water.  If 
too  thin,  mix  in  more  flour.  It  should  not  be  so  stiff"  as  for  fine 
flour  bread.  Let  it  rise  light  ;  then  put  it  into  well-buttered 
pans  to  rise  again.  When  light,  bake  one  hour.  It  requires 
a  hotter  oven  and  needs  to  bake  longer  than  other  bread. 

Or,  one  quart  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  table-spoon- 
fuls of  molasses,  and  two  table- spoonfuls  of  yeast ;  wet  with  warm 
water,  or  warm  milk  and  water,  till  as  thick  as  pound-cake.  If 
wanted  for  breakfast,  let  it  stand  overnight.  When  ready  to 
bake,  add  a  well-beaten  egg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  put  into 
buttered  pans  and  liake  well. 

Or,  one  quart  of  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  soda  enough  to  make 
it  foam,  and  while  foaming  pour  it  on  the  Graham  flour,  stirring 
it  together  quickly.  The  flour  should  be  all  ready  in  the  pan, 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  scant  half-teaciip  of  molasses 
stirred  into  it  before  the  soda  is  put  to  the  buttermilk.  Make  it 
as  thick  as  pomid-cake  ;  bake  immediately  one  hour  with  a  steady 
hot  fire  ;  add  a  well-beaten  egg  if  in  a  huny  for  your  bread,  as  it 
will  bake  sooner,  and  Ave  think  be  lighter  for  it. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread.  ŌĆö  One  cup  of  Indian  meal,  two  cu[is 
of  rye,  one  cup  of  molasses,  two  cups  of  milk,  a  half-teaspoonful 
of  soda,  the  same  of  salt.  Stir  well  together  and  steam  in  some 
of  the  new  "  boilers  "  or  "  cookers  "  or  "  steamers  "  three  hours  ; 
taking  care  that  the  water  does  not  stop  boiling.  Add  boiling 
water  as  the  water  boils  away.  If  you  wish  it  hot  for  breakfast, 
steam  the  day  before,  and  in  the  morning  set  it  in  the  oven  for 
half  an  hour  to  form  a  good  crust. 

Corn  Bread.  ŌĆö  Sift  two  cups  of  Indian  meal  overnight  ;  jiour 


390  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

on  it  just  enougli  really  hoiling  water  to  moisten  or  wet  it  through  ; 
cover  it  up  and  let  it  stand  till  morning  ;  then  add  one  cup  of 
flour  in  which  an  even  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  has  been 
sifted.  Dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  and  stir  with  the  meal  and  flour  ;  add  half  a  small  cup  of 
sugar  ;  beat  two  eggs  ŌĆö  yelks  and  whites  separately  ŌĆö  and  put 
in  the  last  thing.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Rice  Bread  (Southern  Receipt).  ŌĆö  One  piut  of  rice  flour,  half  a 
pint  of  wheat  flour,  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  butter  half  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  The  rice  flour  must 
be  very  fine,  and  stirred  in  after  the  other  ingredients  are  partly 
mixed.     Bake  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  whole  is  stirred  together. 

Bread  is  sometimes  made  of  ai^ple  mixed  with  flour,  by  putting 
one  third  of  stewed  apple-pulp  to  two  thirds  of  flour,  and  ferment- 
ing with  yeast  for  twelve  hours.  This  bread  is  said  to  be  light 
and  very  palatable.     It  is  much  used  in  France. 

BISCUIT. 

Morning  Biscuit.  ŌĆö  One  quart  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  with 
lialf  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  it.  "Work  this  into  a 
dough  ;  then  rula  into  the  dough  half  a  cup  of  butter.  Knead 
well ;  cut  off  small  bits  ;  shape  them  into  biscuits  ;  lay  them  in 
the  bake-pan,  cover  closely  with  a  bread-cloth,  and  let  them  stand 
overnight  in  a  warm  place  in  winter  and  a  cool  place  in  summer. 
Bake  in  the  morning  for  breakfast. 

Tea  Biscuit.  ŌĆö  Peel  and  boil  four  potatoes  of  medium  size. 
When  done,  mash  and  roll  them  smooth  and  perfectly  free  from 
lumps,  sprinkling  a  table-spoonful  of  salt  over  them.  Put  to 
the  potatoes  a  half-pint  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  a 
half-pint  of  milk,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  into  this 
sufficient  flour  to  make  it  a  stiff  batter.  When  cool,  add  half  a 
penny's  worth  of  bakers'  yeast,  or  half  a  teacup  of  home-made 
yeast.  Cover  over  with  a  bread-cloth  and  blanket.  In  cold 
weather  leave  this  sponge  in  a  Avarm  place  overnight  to  rise.  In 
the  summer,  make  it  early  in  the  morning.  When  this  is  risen 
until  quite  foamy,  soften  ŌĆö  but  do  not  melt  ŌĆö  two  thirds  of  a 
teacupful  of  butter,  and  beat  it  into  the  sponge,  together  with  two 


BISCUIT.  391 

egg.-!,  yelks  and  whites  beaten  separately  ;  add  flour  to  make  it 
stilt"  enough  to  mold,  ŌĆö  the  softer  it  can  be  worked  the  better  it 
will  be.  Knead  it  half  an  hour,  then  cover  and  set  it  to  rise. 
When  light,  knead  and  chop  the  dough  at  least  fifteen  minutes. 
This  done,  return  it  to  the  bread-bowl,  again  cover  closely,  and 
set  to  rise.  When  light,  repeat  the  kneading  ;  let  it  rise  the  sec- 
ond time,  when  it  should  be  worked  down  and  set  on  the  ice  in 
the  ice-box,  until  within  an  hoitr  of  tea-time  ;  then  it  must  be 
again  molded,  rolled  out,  cut  into  small  biscuits,  pricked  on  the 
top,  put  into  a  bake-pan,  covered  over,  and  set  to  rise  on  a  bench, 
near  the  stove,  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour.  When  light,  set 
the  biscuits  into  an  evenly  heated  oven,  and  bake  quickly  to  a 
delicate  brown.  When  done,  cover  over  with  a  bread-cloth  for  a 
short  time  before  removing  from  the  pan,  to  soften  the  crust. 

Soda  Biscuit.  ŌĆö  Put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  into 
one  quart  of  flour  ;  sift  both  together  and  rub  in  thoroughly  two 
great  spoonfuls  of  butter.  Put  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  into  a 
table-spoonful  of  cold  water,  and  stir  till  all  is  dissolved,  then  put 
it  into  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  pour  it  on  the  flour.  Stir  together 
quickly  ;  if  it  cannot  be  rolled  out,  add  a  little  more  flour,  but 
just  as  little  as  it  is  possible  to  roll  out  the  biscuits  with.  Cut  in 
s!iape  and  bake  immediately.  The  great  secret  of  making  good 
soda  biscuit  is  to  sift  the  soda  with  the  flour,  to  have  it  thor- 
oughly dissolved,  the  dough  made  as  thin  and  as  quickly  as  pos- 
sible, and  baked  immediately. 

Indian-Corn  Biscuit.  ŌĆö  One  quart  of  corn  meal,  one  pint  of 
Avheat  flour,  sifted  together,  and  stirred  into  three  pints  of  milk  ; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  four  eggs,  the  yelks  and  whites 
separately,  as  for  sponge-cakes.  First  stir  the  yelks  into  the  bat- 
ter ;  then  add  the  whites,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  the 
last  thing.  Have  ready  buttered  some  cups  or  small  pans  ;  nearly 
fill  them  with  the  batter,  and  set  into  the  hot  oven  immediately. 
Bake  fast,  turn  from  the  cups  as  soon  as  done,  and  serve  im- 
mediately.    They  should  puff  up  so  as  to  more  than  fill  the  cups. 

Parker  House  Rolls.  Ō¢Ā ŌĆö  Two  quarts  flour,  one  large  spoonful 
of  lard,  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  pint  boiled  milk,  ŌĆö  set  aside 
till  cold,  Ō¢Ā ŌĆö  half-cup  sugar,  half-cup  yeast.  Make  a  hole  in  center 
of  the  flour,  put  in  milk,  etc.,  and  let  it  rise  overnight.     In  the 


392  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

morning  knead  it  well,  and  let  it  rise  till  noon  ;  then  cut  it  into 
long,  narrow  rolls  and  let  it  rise  till  tea-time.     Bake. 

Rusk.  ŌĆö  Three  colfee-cups  new  milk,  three  eggs,  one  teacup 
butter,  one  teacup  sugar,  one  of  yeast,  and  flour  enough  for  bat- 
ter. When  the  batter  has  well  risen,  work  in  more  flour,  but  mix 
it  rather  soft  ;  let  it  rise  once  more,  quite  light,  but  be  careful 
that  it  does  not  sour  ;  then  make  it  out  into  rolls  or  biscuits  ;  let 
it  stand  again  a  short  time,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  ; 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  should  cook  them. 

Sweet  Potato  Buns.  ŌĆö  Boil  and  mash  two  good-sized  pota- 
toes ;  rub  in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it.  like  bread ;  add  a 
little  nutmeg  and  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  with  a  table-spoonful 
of  good  yeast.  When  it  has  risen,  work  in  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  soften  so  as  to  be  easily  mixed  thoroughly  -svith  the 
dough  ;  then  form  into  small  rolls,  and,  when  raised  the  second 
time,  bake  on  tms  a  nice  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Potato  Pone.  ŌĆö  Pare  and  grate  on  a  large  grater  sweet  pota- 
toes enough  to  make  one  quart  of  grated  potato.  Stir  to  this  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  and 
enough  sugar  to  make  it  as  sweet  as  plain  cake  ;  season  -with 
ginger.  Bake  till  well  done.  Eat,  hot  or  cold,  with  butter.  If 
desired  to  be  light  colored,  put  the  potatoes  into  cold  water  as  soon 
as  pared,  and  when  ready  grate  into  the  milk.  If  dark-colored 
pone  is  preferred,  sweeten  with  molasses  and  season  with  allspice. 
This  is  very  rich  made  like  poimd-cake,  using  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  grated  potato  in  place  of  flour. 

Gems.  ŌĆö  Break  into  a  quart  of  milk  four  eggs  (two  will  an- 
swer) without  beating,  stir  in  flour  till  as  thick  as  wafiies.  Beat 
till  smooth,  and  fill  the  "gem"  pans  half  full.  Bake  quick  in  a 
hot  oven.     No  salt,  soda,  or  cream  of  tartar. 

The  "gem"  pans  should  be  well  buttered,  and  set  into  the  oven 
to  get  quite  hot  while  the  batter  is  being  prepared,  and  when  you 
are  filling  them,  set  the  pan  on  the  top  of  the  range  to  keep  it  hot. 
When  filled,  set  them  immediately  in  the  oven. 

Gems,  No.  2.  ŌĆö  Drop  four  eggs,  without  beating,  into  a 
quart  of  milk  ;  add  two  great  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and 
beat  in  flour  until  as  thick  as  Avafiies.  Pour  into  hot  buttered 
gem  pans,  and  bake  like  the  first. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  393 

Graham  Gems.  ŌĆö  Drop  one  egg  into  a  quart  of  milk  or  water. 
Stir  ill  Graham  flour  until  as  stiff  as  waffles.  Pour  into  hot,  Lut- 
tored  gem  pans,  and  bake  quickly.  Or  add  to  the  above  one 
table-spoonful  of  melted  butter  ;  they  will  be  tenderer. 

In  all  measures  the  spoon,  cup,  or  tin  should  never  be  heaped, 
but  even  full. 

BREAKFAST  AND   TEA   CAKES. 

Corn  Cakes.  ŌĆö  Rub  one  table-spoonful  of  lard  into  four  cups 
of  com  meal.  Stir  the  meal  into  four  cujjs  of  sour  milk,  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  and  put  in  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  the  last  thing.  Beat  well,  and  bake  in  small 
gem  irons,  or  light  tin  forms. 

Another  "Way.  ŌĆö  Three  teacups  of  com  meal,  one  teacup  of 
wheat  Hour,  two  teacups  of  milk,  one  teacup  of  cream,  or  a  third 
of  a  teacup  of  butter,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  egg,  ŌĆö 
beat  yelk  and  white  separately,  and  very  light  ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Bake  in  small  pans,  with 
a  brisk  heat. 

Another.  ŌĆö  Sift  two  cups  of  meal,  pour  over  it  one  teacup 
of  boiling  milk,  stir  it  up  well,  and  let  it  stand  all  night  if 
intended  for  breakfast.  The  next  morning  add  one  cup  of  wheat 
flour,  one  of  sugar,  a  half-cup  of  butter,  the  well-beaten  yelks  of 
two  eggs  ;  add,  if  needed,  more  milk,  so  as  to  make  it  as  thin  as 
waffles.  Take  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  stiff,  to  be  added  the  last.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered 
pan  and  bake  about  twenty-five  miiiutes,  in  a  well-heated  oven, 
but  not  scorching  hot.  If  Jewell's  Prepared  Flour  is  used,  no 
soda  need  be  added.  If  correctly  prepared  and  well  baked,  this 
is  excellent.  If  you  have  sweet  apples,  three  or  four  chopped 
very  fine,  added,  and  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  finely  chopped  suet, 
instead  of  butter,  is  a  very  great  improvement. 

Another.  ŌĆö  One  cupful  of  flour,  two  cupfuls  of  corn  me:d, 
two  great  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  not  quite  half  a  cupful  of  butter, 
one  cupful  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  with 
the  meal  and  flour,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  two  eggs, 
whites  and  yelks  w'ell  beaten  separately  ;  the  yelks  mixed  with 
the  milk  and  meal,  and  the  whites  added,  the  last  thing. 
17* 


394  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

Steamed  Johnny-Cake.  ŌĆö  One  pint  of  sour  cream,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  and  one  of  salt.  Stir  in  three  table-spoonfuls  of 
flour  ;  then  add  corn  meal  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat 
one  egg,  and  add  to  the  batter ;  stir  all  carefully  together,  and 
pour  into  a  well-buttered  tin  basin  ;  set  this  into  a  bread-steamer, 
and  keep  the  steam  up  for  an  hour,  or  more  if  the  loaf  is  large. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Corn-Meal  Cake  with  Apples  and  Suet.  ŌĆö  One  pint  scalded 
milk,  or  a  half-cup  cream,  or  a  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  teacupful 
suet  chopped  fine,  a  table-spoonful  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  salt,  six 
good-sized  sweet  apples  chopped  fine,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  a 
shallow  tin  pan. 

Muffins.  ŌĆö  One  pint  of  milk,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one 
pint  of  flour,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  eggs,  whites  and 
yelks  beaten  separately  and  very  stiff,  a  small  even  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda  ;  add  the  whites  last,  beat  smartly  and  perfectly  free 
from  lumps.  Butter  the  griddle,  and  bake  in  well-buttered  rings. 
"When  the  bottom  is  done,  turn  over  the  rings  and  bake  the  top, 
or  put  the  rings  on  a  well-buttered  bake-pan  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.     We  think  them  lighter  and  better  so  baked. 

Another  Way.  ŌĆö  One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful salt,  three  eggs,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  one  quart  flour,  a 
heaping  table-spoon  of  brewers'  yeast,  or  two  of  home-made  yeast. 
Melt  the  butter  and  put  into  the  milk,  beat  the  eggs  and  put  them 
also  into  the  milk,  then  stir  in  flour  and  add  the  yeast.  If  for 
breakfast,  set  them  to  rise  overnight.  If  at  all  sour,  add  half- 
teaspoonful  of  soda.    Bake  in  well-buttered  rings  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cream  MufBns.  ŌĆö  One  qiiart  rich  milk,  or,  if  you  can  get  it, 
half  cream  and  half  milk  ;  one  quart  of  flour  heaping,  six  eggs,  one 
table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  of  lard  ;  softened  together.  Beat 
whites  and  yelks  separately  very  light  ;  then  add  flour  and  short- 
ening and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  stir  in  the  flour  the  last 
thing,  lightly  as  possible,  and  have  the  batter  free  from  lumps. 
Half  fill  your  Avell-buttered  muffin-rings,  and  bake  immediately 
in  a  hot  oven,  or  your  muffins  will  not  be  good.  Send  to  table 
the  moment  they  are  done. 

Another  Way.  ŌĆö  One  teacup  sour  cream,  two  eggs,  one  half- 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA   CAKES.  395 

teaspoonful  of  soda,  thickened  with  flour  about  as  stiff  as  waffles. 
Bake  iu  a  quick  oven. 

Raised  Muffins.  ŌĆö  One  quart  milk,  a  halfpenny's  worth  of 
bakers'  yeast  or  half-cup  of  hojue-made  yeast,  two  table-spoonfuls 
white  sugar,  one  of  butter  (lard  will  answer,  but  is  not  as  good), 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  flour  sufficient 
to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Make  the  batter  overnight,  leaving  out  tlie  eggs.  In  the  morn- 
ing beat  the  eggs,  yelks  and  whites  separately,  very  light,  and 
stir  into  the  well-risen  batter.  Have  the  muffin-rings  well 
greased,  fill  half  full  with  the  batter,  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  hot. 

Hominy  Muffins.  ŌĆö  Wash  a  pint  of  small  hominy  through 
two  or  three  waters,  pour  boiling  water  on  it,  cover,  and  let  it 
soak  for  several  hours.  Then  put  it  into  a  farina-kettle  with  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  until  soft  enough  to  mash  ; 
drain  it  and  mix  it  well  with  a  pint  of  white  corn  meal  or  wheat 
flour,  a  little  salt,  and  a  pint  and  one  half  of  milk  in  which  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  butter  have  been  melted.  When  nearly  cold, 
add  four  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast  ;  cover  it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm 
place  until  very  light,  with  the  surface  covered  with  bubbles. 
Butter  some  muffin-rings,  set  them  on  a  hot  griddle,  pour  into 
each  a  portion  of  the  mixture,  and  bake  them  brown  on  both 
sides.     Send  them  to  table  hot. 

Quick  Muffins.  ŌĆö  Two  teacups  buttermilk,  one  of  thick  cream, 
or,  if  none,  three  even  table-spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  four  eggs, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  thicken  with  prepared  flour  as  thick 
as  waffles. 

Graham  Flour  Muffins.  ŌĆö  One  pint  of  sour  milk,  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  Graham  flour 
sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Bake  in  rings,  or  drop  the  bat- 
ter in  spoonfuls  on  a  flat  tin.     Add  a  little  salt  before  baking. 

Raised  Waffles.  ŌĆö  One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  heaping  teacup 
of  butter,  three  eggs  (yelks  and  whites  beaten  separately),  a  table- 
spoonful  of  thick  brewers'  yeast  or  a  halfpenny's  worth  of  bakers', 
one  quart  of  flour,  one  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
one  teacup  of  sweet  milk  ;  beat  all  together,  and  let  it  rise  till 
very  light,  and  then  bake.  Serve  hot,  with  butter  and  sugar,  or 
plain,  according  to  taste. 


396  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

Corn-Meal  Waffles.  ŌĆö  Pour  over  one  pint  of  com  meal,  hvice 
sifted,  one  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Put  in  one  table-spoonful  of  but- 
ter, one  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  this  stand  till 
cold  ;  then  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  water  ;  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  the  whites  whisked 
very  light  and  stiff  to  be  added  the  last  thing,  when  just  ready  to 
bake. 

Put  a  brown  paper  over  bread,  biscuit,  or  cake  when  first  set 
into  a  hot  oven,  else  the  top  will  most  likely  brown  and  form  a 
crust  before  they  rise  sufficiently,  and  thus  make  them  tough  or 
heavy. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.  ŌĆö  One  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  mix 
with  lukewarm  water  rather  thicker  than  you  will  wish  it  when 
ready  to  bake.  A  cup  of  Graham  meal  added  is,  we  think,  an 
improvement.  Stir  in  half  a  cup  of  family  yeast,  or  a  halfpen- 
ny's worth  of  bakers',  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  ;  mix  in  an  earthen 
bowl  or  a  large  earthen  pitcher,  ŌĆö  the  latter  is  the  most  conven- 
ient, as  the  batter  can  be  poured  from  the  lip  of  the  pitcher  more 
neatly  than  it  can  l)e  dipped  out  of  a  bowl ;  set  it  where  it  will 
keep  warm  all  night.  The  batter  should  be  made  early  in  the 
evening,  as  it  takes  fully  ten  hours  in  winter  to  rise  ;  when 
ready  to  bake  in  the  morning,  beat  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  into 
a  great  spoonful  of  molasses,  and  stir  into  the  batter,  adding  also 
enough  lukewarm  water  to  make  it  thm  enough  to  fry  ;  bake 
quick  ;  the  thinner  the  cakes  can  be  baked  the  better  they  will  be. 

Rice  Griddle-Cakes.  ŌĆö  Half  a  teacupful  of  whole  rice,  three 
eggs,  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook 
the  rice  till  every  grain  is  dissolved  and  like  jelly.  Warm  the 
milk  a  little,  and  beat  the  rice  in  it  till  it  is  smoothly  mixed. 
When  the  eggs  are  beaten  very  light,  add  to  the  rice  and  milk  ; 
then  the  salt.  Bake  on  a  hot,  greased  griddle  till  broT\Ti  and  light. 
If  the  batter  does  not  adhere,  add  another  egg,  but  no  flour. 

Sour-Milk  Griddle-Cakes.  ŌĆö  Stir  into  one  quart  of  sour 
milk  enough  flour  to  make  the  batter  as  thick  as  waffles  ;  add  an 
even  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Dissolve  an 
even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  beat  in  when  I'eady  for  frying.  This 
is  very  good  baked  in  waffle-irons. 

Green-Corn  Fritters.  ŌĆö  One  pint  grated  corn,  one  small  cup 


BREAKFAST   AND  TEA  CAKES.  397 

butter,  one  egg,  a  te.aspooiiful  salt,  one  table-spoonful  flour,  a  little 
pepper.     Drop  on  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  or  ivy  ten  minutes. 

Mock  Oyster  Fritters.  ŌĆö  Grate  one  dozen  raw  ears  of  corn  ; 
after  grating,  scrape  or  wring  all  the  milk  from  the  cob  ;  half  a 
table-spoonful  flour  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  ;  beat  the  yelks 
of  three  eggs  very  thick,  and  stir  into  the  grated  corn  ;  Avhisk  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  the  last  thing.  Drop  a  dessert- 
sjioouful  at  a  time  on  a  hot,  buttered  griddle,  and  fry  of  a  light 
brown  on  both  sides. 

Corn  Oysters. ŌĆö  One  quart  grated  corn,  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  small  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  little  pepper,  with  just  flour 
enough  to  make  the*  corn  hold  together.  Drop  from  a  spoon  into 
hot  butter,  making  cakes  about  the  size  of  an  oyster.  Sour  milk, 
with  a  half-teaspoonful  of  soda,  will  answer  if  eggs  are  not  plenty. 

Rice  Cakes.  ŌĆö  One  cup  cold  boiled  rice  rubbed  into  a  quart 
of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  a  teaspooirful  of  salt,  two  eggs  beaten 
very  light.  Beat  all  free  from  lumps.  Bake  as  soon  as  made,  on 
a  well-greased  griddle. 

Rice  or  Hominy  Cakes.  ŌĆö  Warm  one  quart  of  sweet  milk, 
and  rub  into  it  two  cups  of  boiled  rice  or  hominy  ;  throAV  in  a 
little  salt,  and  add  enough  wheat  flour  to  bind  the  rice,  or  to  make 
the  batter  as  thick  as  wafiles.  Beat  two  eggs  and  add  to  the  bat- 
ter, and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  unless  you  use  the  prepared 
flour.     If  you  do,  there  will  be  no  salt  or  soda  needed. 

Rosie's  Sally  Lunn.  ŌĆö  One  spoonful  of  butter,  one  of  sugar, 
one  egg,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  quart  of  flour,  with  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  with  the  flour,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  added  the  last  thing.  This  is  an  excellent  breakfast-cake, 
as  well  as  tea-cake,  and  is  sometimes  varied  by  stirring  in  a  pint 
of  whortleberries. 

Stra-wberry  Shortcake.  ŌĆö  Rub  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
Jewell's  Prepared  Flour  one  teacup  of  butter  ;  beat  one  egg  very 
light  ;  add  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough  ;  divide  in  three  parts  ; 
roll  out  lightly,  lay  one  portion  on  a  pie-plate  or  tin,  sprinkle  a 
little  flour  on  the  top,  then  add  the  second  cake,  a  little  flour  on 
the  top  of  that,  and  cover  with  the  third.  Bake  quickly,  but  not 
too  brown.  Let  the  benies  stand  with  sugar  sprinkled  over  them 
till  the  cake  is  baked,  then  pull  the  thin  portions  of  cake  apart  ; 


398  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

spread  half  of  the  berries  OA^er  the  bottom  cake,  adding  more 
sugar  and  a  little  butter  ;  lay  the  second  over  them,  and  put  on. 
the  remainder  of  the  berries  with  more  sugar  and  butter,  placing 
the  top  cake  over  all.  Put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to 
heat  through,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

When  wishing  an  extra  nice  strawberry  cake  for  tea,  beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  with  a  cup  of  white  sugar  till  stiff,  and  add  to 
it  half  of  a  grated  cocoanut,  and  spread  over  the  cake.  If  you 
have  no  prepared  flour,  sift  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar  with  the  flour  ;  dissolve  one  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  in 
milk,  and  add  the  last  thing  before  mixing  the  cake. 

Cream  Toast.  ŌĆö  Put  a  pint  of  rich,  sweet  cream  over  the  stove 
in  the  farina-kettle,  and  while  heating  toast  thin  slices  of  stale 
bread  quickly  on  both  sides,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  scorch. 
Wet  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  in  cold  milk  ;  stir  it  smooth  ; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  when  the  cream  is  scalding  hot,  put 
in  the  flour,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  thickens  ;  then  take  the 
kettle  from  the  fire.  Have  ready  a  dish  of  salt  and  water,  hot, 
and  dip  each  piece  of  the  toasted  bread  into  it,  but  only  for  a  mo- 
ment. Eemove  quickly  to  the  toast-dish,  and  dij)  over  it  a  liberal 
supply  of  the  thickened  cream  ;  then  cut  more  bread  and  lay  into 
the  dish,  then  more  cream,  till  all  is  used,  letting  the  cream  be  the 
last.  If  you  have  no  cream,  boil  and  thicken  some  sweet  milk  ; 
put  in  an  even  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter, 
and,  when  done,  add  one  or  two  well-beaten  eggs  the  last  thing  ; 
stir  for  a  few  minutes  till  well  united  with  the  boUing  milk,  and 
then  pour  over  the  bread. 

SOUPS. 

General  Directions.  ŌĆö  Before  gi^ang  some  receipts  for  sorqos, 
we  wish  first  to  remind  our  young  housekeepers  that  it  is  impor- 
tant for  them  to  bear  in  mind  the  necessity  and  economy  of  keep- 
ing good  stock  constantly  on  hand.  The  French  stock-pot  is 
alwaj'^s  in  readiness  to  receive  every  bone,  coarse  or  refuse  bit 
of  meat  not  suitable  to  use  for  the  main  dish  or  for  side-dishes. 
"We  understand  that  the  French  use  earthenware  for  this  purpose 
and  also  for  "  soup-digesters."  It  would  be  a  benefaction  if  our 
house-furnishing  merchants  would  import  some  of  these  "soup- 


SOUPS.  399 

digesters  "  and  "  stock-pots,"  as  they  are  far  Letter  than  metal. 
But  until  we  can  procure  such,  the  stock,  as  last  as  made,  should 
be  strained  into  a  large  stone  pot,  and  when  cold,  all  the  grease 
that  rises  and  hardens  on  top  must  be  removed,  clarified,  and  set 
aside  for  cooking  pm-poses.  Aside  from  the  economy  of  using  all 
refuse  meat  and  bones  for  stock,  and  the  convenience  of  having 
it  always  ready  for  use,  the  soup  will  be  better  if  the  stock  is 
made  at  least  the  day  before,  because  one  can  then  easily  remove 
all  the  grease,  ŌĆö  an  important  item  in  preparing  good  soups. 

Stock  for  Soups.  ŌĆö  Buy  a  knuckle  of  beef  or  veal.  Have 
the  bone  well  cracked  in  small  pieces.  Put  it  in  the  soup-di- 
gester, or,  if  you  have  none,  in  a  closely  covered  iron  pot.  For 
a  medium-size  piece,  add  five  or  six  quarts  of  cold  water  (by  using 
cold  water  you  will  secure  all  the  juices,  whereas  in  hot  water 
half  the  juice  is  retained  in  the  meat).  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  be- 
fore you  add  salt  or  pejiper  ;  then  season  it  to  suit  your  taste,  and 
if  agreeable  put  in  a  small  bit  of  red  pepper.  Set  the  kettle  on 
the  back  part  of  the  stove  after  it  once  commences  to  boil,  and 
keep  it  gently  simmering  all  day  ;  then  strain  it  from  the  bones 
and  meat,  which  are  now  worthless,  into  a  pot  kept  for  the  pur- 
pose. Never  throw  away  bones  that  are  left  from  baked,  boiled, 
or  roast  meat  of  any  kind,  or  from  steak,  poultry,  anything,  (ex- 
cept those  taken  off  the  plates)  ;  dried  or  gristly  bits  of  meat 
may  also  be  used  to  prepare  stock  for  soup  ;  and  in  a  large  family 
sufhcient  can  be  gleaned  that  would  otherwise  be  thrown  into  the 
swill  to  keep  stock  on  hands  for  weeks,  without  buying  a  bone 
for  that  purpose  alone.  Whan  the  stock  is  strained  off,  set  it  in 
the  cellar  to  cool.  The  next  morning  carefully  remove  all  the 
grease  that  has  risen  to  the  top  and  hardened,  and  you  will  have  a 
clear,  rich  stock  ready  for  use.  Clarify  the  grease  removed  from 
the  stock  by  slicing  a  raw  potato  into  it,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  in 
a  skillet  till  it  laoils  ;  then  strain  it  from  the  potato,  and  you  have 
fine  dripping  for  many  purposes. 

Tomato  Soup.  ŌĆö ŌĆó  Use  stock  from  beef,  ham,  veal,  or  any  other 
bones  or  refuse  meat.  Put  two  or  three  quarts  into  your  soup- 
kettle,  ŌĆö  the  size  of  your  family  must  determine  the  quantity,  ŌĆö 
cut  in  one  carrot,  one  small  onion,  if  agreeable,  a  little  celery  or 
fresh  parsley  ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  herbs  to  suit  the  taste,  and 


400  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

tlien  make  the  stock  thick  with  tomatoes,  ŌĆö  fresh  from  the  \ine 
are  much  the  best ;  a  si^oonful  or  two  of  star  maccaroni  is  an  im- 
provement, or  rice  or  pearl  barley,  if  you  have  either  at  hand.  Let 
it  boil  two  hours. 

Another.  ŌĆö  Take  bones  or  bits  of  meat  left  from  any  dish, 
and  boil  well  to  extract  all  nutriment,  then  strain ;  or,  if  you 
have  none  on  hand,  make  a  rich  stock,  put  in  cabbage,  caiTots, 
parsnips,  or  any  other  vegetables  you  like  ;  boil  till  well  done, 
then  add  the  tomatoes,  ŌĆö  a  dozen  fresh,  or  half  a  can  of  winter 
tomatoes  ;  boil  twenty  minutes,  then  strain  and  serve  hot. 

A  Vegetable  Soup.  ŌĆö  Peel  and  slice  six  large  onions  and 
four  turnips  ;  fry  them  in  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
then  pour  over  them  four  quarts  of  boiUng  water.  Toast  a  good- 
sized  crust  of  bread  hard  and  brown  (Ijut  take  care  that  it  is  not 
burned  at  all),  and  put  into  the  soup,  with  a  little  celery  ;  sweet 
herbs,  salt,  and  pepper  to  suit  your  taste.  Stew  gently  four  hours, 
stirring  often  to  prevent  it  from  scorching  ;  strain  through  a  coarse 
cloth  or  strainer,  when  it  has  cooked  the  four  hours.  Have  ready 
a  little  thinly  sliced  carrot,  turnip,  and  celery, ŌĆö a  few  slices  of  each 
will  be  sufficient,  ŌĆö  put  these  into  the  soup  after  straining  it  ; 
return  to  the  fire  and  stew  till  these  last  vegetables  are  tender. 
A  spoonful  or  two  of  tomato  catsup  will  improve  it  for  some 
people. 

We  have  not  tried  this  soup,  but  were  told  by  an  excellent 
housekeeper  that  it  was  capital.  "VVe  demurred  at  the  quantity 
of  tomato  and  onion,  but  judge  the  long  time  given  to  cook  the 
soup  may  combine  and  incorporate  the  different  flavors  so  as  to 
make  it  quite  palatable. 

Mock-Turtle  Soup.  ŌĆö  Take  a  calf's  head  dressed  with  the  skin 
on,  ŌĆö  the  fresher  the  better.  Take  out  and  lay  aside  the  brains. 
After  washing  it  several  times  in  a  plentiful  supply  of  cold  water, 
soak  in  cold  spring  water.  Then  put  it  into  your  soup-kettle  or 
digester,  adding  two  quarts  more  of  cold  water  than  is  needed  to 
cover  it,  and  place  over  the  stove  or  range.  There  should  be  about 
two  gallons  of  water  in  all.  As  it  begins  to  heat,  a  large  amount  of 
scum  will  rise  to  the  top.  "Watch  this  carefully,  and  skim  it  off  as 
fast  as  it  rises.  Let  it  ])oil  one  hour,  or  till  the  meat  can  be  easily 
removed  from  the  bone,  when  it  should  be  taken  from  the  liquor, 


SOUPS.  401 

and  when  nearly  cold  cut  from  the  bones  in  neat  pieces  about  an 
inch  square.  The  tongue  may  be  cut  up  in  small  pieces  with  the 
meat,  or  cut  up  and  mixed  with  the  brains  for  a  side-dish.  The 
skill  of  the  head  is  the  best  part,  and  should  be  cut  up  carefully, 
leaving  as  much  fat  adhering  to  it  as  you  can.  As  soon  as  the 
head  is  taken  up,  put  to  the  broth  in  which  it  was  boiled  a  five- 
pound  knuckle  of  veal  and  the  same  anioimt  of  lean  beef,  adding 
all  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the  head  ;  a  half-dozen  cloves,  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  and  the  same  of  whole  black  pep- 
per ;  boil  five  hours,  skim  well,  and  keep  closely  covered.  Then 
strain  and  set  aside  till  morning,  when  all  the  fat  must  be  re- 
moved, and  two  quarts  of  this  stock  reserved.  Now  put  in  a 
large  saucepan,  over  the  fire,  half  a  pound  of  good  fresh  butter, 
six  ounces  of  onions,  sliced,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  green  sage, 
chopped.  Let  these  fry  one  hour  slowly.  Be  careful  that  it  does 
not  scorch.  Then  rub  in  half  a  pound  of  flour  by  degrees,  gradu- 
ally adding  the  broth,  till  of  the  thickness  of  rich  cream.  Season 
with  salt  to  your  taste  ;  half  an  ounce  of  lemon-peel,  grated.  Let 
it  simmer  again  gently  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  strain  through  a 
hair-sieve  or  tamis.  Don't  rub  the  soup  through  the  sieve,  it  Avill 
make  it  muddy.  If  it  does  not  run  through  easily,  knock  a  wood- 
en spoon  against  the  side  of  the  sieve  ;  that  will  start  it  through 
without  the  sediment,  which  would  go  through  if  rubbed.  Put  the 
stock,  when  strained,  into  a  clean  stew-pot  with  the  pieces  of  the 
head  ;  and  to  each  gallon  of  soup  have  a  pint  of  nice  claret,  if  j'ou 
wish  it  dark,  madeira  or  sherry,  if  you  prefer  it  light  (those  who 
object  to  wine  or  brandy  in  mince-'pies  must  be  careful  not  to  call 
for  turtle  or  mock-turtle  soup  at  restaurants),  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  lemon-juice,  and  two  of  catsup,  one  of  the  essence  of  anchovy, 
a  teaspoonful  of  curry-powder,  or  quarter  of  a  drachm  of  cayenne. 
Let  it  simmer  till  the  meat  is  tender,  taking  care  that  it  is  not 
done  too  much,  and  by  frequent  stirring  prevent  its  sticking. 
When  the  meat  is  quite  tender,  serve  the  soup  with  force-meat, 
brain,  or  egg-balls.  This  should  have  been  reduced  by  boiling  to 
four  or  five  quarts. 

Bean  Soup.  ŌĆö  Wash  your  beans  and  boil  them  with  a  piece 
of  salt  pork.  When  the  beans  are  soft,  take  them  out  and  pi'ess 
through  a   colander  ;    then  put  them  back  in  the  water  they 

z 


402  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

were  boiled  in,  together  witli  four  hard-boiled  eggs  quartered,  and 
half  a  lemon  sliced,  a  little  pepper,  if  you  like  it.  Boil  up  and 
serve.  This  is  liked  by  some  better  than  when  made  with  rich 
beef  stock,  with  tomatoes  or  catsup  for  flavor. 

Soup  -with  Eggs.  ŌĆö  Make  a  good  stock  from  a  knuckle  of 
veal  and  any  Ijones  which  may  be  on  hand  from  baked  or  broiled 
beef  or  mutton.  Add  one  turnip,  two  carrots,  one  onion,  a  little 
lemon-juice,  a  small  sprinkling  of  thyme,  and  a  little  celery.  Let 
it  boil  five  or  six  hours,  then  strain,  set  it  to  cool,  and,  when  cold, 
remove  all  the  grease.  When  needed,  heat  it,  add  a  little  thick- 
ening of  rolled  cracker  or  flour,  and  to  three  quarts  of  this  stock 
add  the  yelks  of  five  or  six  eggs,  one  gill  of  cream,  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Drop  the  yelks  in  whole,  and  let  them  cook  a  few 
minutes.  Some  like  to  drop  them  in  just  as  the  soup  is  dished. 
We  do  not  think  it  so  nice,  but  that  is  a  matter  of  taste. 

Green  Pea  Soup. ŌĆö  Take  two  quarts  of  green  peas,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham  cut  very  fine, 
two  small  onions,  and  a  little  parsley,  and  put  it  into  a  soup- 
digester  or  kettle  ;  add  just  a  little  water,  enough  to  allow  it  to 
stew  slowly,  stirring  it  well  together,  and  cover  closely.  When 
quite  tender,  add  two  quarts  of  veal,  beef,  or  mutton  broth,  a 
great  spoonful  of  sugar,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season  it  to  your 
taste.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  then  rub  through  a  hair-sieve  into  an- 
other kettle,  and  pour  to  it  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  ;  boil  five 
minutes  and  serve. 

Turtle  Bean  Soup.  ŌĆö  Pick  free  from  dirt  and  imperfect 
beans  a  pint  and  a  half  of  turtle  beans  ;  soak  them  overnight 
in  a  good  quantity  of  cold  water.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the 
water,  and  wash  the  beans  in  fresh  water  ;  drain  and  put  in  the 
soup-digester,  with  four  quarts  of  good  strong  stock  from  which 
all  the  fat  has  been  carefully  removed.  Set  it  where  it  will  boil 
steadily  but  slowly  till  dinner-time,  ŌĆö  four  hours  at  least,  six  is 
better.  We  always  have  ours  put  on  as  soon  as  the  fire  is  kin- 
dled in  the  morning  before  breakfast.  One  small  onion,  a  carrot, 
and  two  or  three  of  the  outside  stalks  of  celery  cut  into  the  stock 
is  considered  an  improvement  by  most  persons.  Stir  it  occasion- 
ally till  the  beans  begin  to  soften,  to  prevent  their  sticking  and 
burning  at  the  bottom.     Two  hours  before  dinner  put  in  half  a 


SOUPS.  403 

can  of  tomatoes,  or,  in  the  season,  eight  or  ten  fresh  ones,  and  a 
coft'ee-cup  of  tomato-catsup.  When  ready  to  dish,  strain  through 
a  fine  colander  or  coarse  sieve,  ruhbing  through  enough  of  the 
pulp  of  the  beans  to  make  it  as  thick  as  rich  cream.  Taste  to  see 
if  there  is  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 
If  you  have  any  hard-boiled  eggs  left  over,  chop  fine  and  put  into 
the  soup,  after  stiaining  it,  or,  if  eggs  are  plenty,  boil  three  haid 
and  add,  cliopped  fine. 

Nursery  Soup  (to  be  prepared  the  day  before  needing  it).  ŌĆö 
Two  pounds  of  sci'ag  of  mutton,  or  of  the  knuckle,  put  into  two 
quarts  of  cold  water  ;  add  two  or  three  sliced  turnips,  or  two 
spoonfuls  rice  or  pearl  barley  or  star  tapioca,  whichever  best  suits 
the  taste.  Simmer  slowly  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  take  out  the 
meat  and  set  aside  ;  pour  the  soup  into  a  large  bowl,  and  leave  to 
cool  till  next  day.  In  the  morning  skim  off  all  the  fat  that  has 
risen  on  the  stock.  An  hoior  before  needed,  turn  the  stock  into 
a  saucepan  and  bring  it  to  a  boil  ;  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  in 
fine  mouthfuls.  Mince  very  fine  a  small  onion,  a  little  parsley 
and  celery  ;  add  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  one  tal)le- 
spoonful  browned  flour  ;  burn  an  even  table-spoonful  of  sugar  in 
an  iron  spoon  ;  pour  a  little  boiling  water  over  it  and  stir  it  into 
the  browned  flour,  then  stir  both  into  the  soup  ;  add  the  other 
articles,  and  boil  all  together  twenty  minutes  ;  serve  hot,  with 
small  bits  of  carefully  toasted  bread.  This  is  called  nursery  soup, 
but  it  is  not  to  be  scorned  by  the  old  folks. 

Oyster  and  Clam  Soup.  ŌĆö  Fifty  oysters,  two  bunches  long 
clams  ;  drain  all  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  into  a  farina-kettle, 
add  a  pint  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  to  suit  the  taste  ;  cut  off  the  soft  bodies  of  the  clams  and 
put  with  the  oysters  ;  chop  the  tough,  gristly  parts  very  fine 
and  put  into  the  liquor  ;  when  it  boils,  add  the  oysters  and  clams, 
with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  powdered  cracker  or  the  same  of  farina. 
Let  all  boil  about  five  minutes,  and  send  to  table  hot.  This  makes 
soup  enough  for  six  persons. 

Potato  Soup.  ŌĆö  Boil  and  mash  jjotatoes  ;  about  three  pints 
when  mashed,  to  three  quarts  of  rich  beef  stock  ;  ready  boiling  ; 
add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  stir  gradually  into  the  boiling  stock, 
then  pass  all  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  soup-kettle  ;  sim- 


404  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

mer  five  minutes,  and  serve  with  fried  bread  ;  or,  if  liked,  a  half- 
pint  of  peas  Ijoiled  soft,  one  onion,  one  head  of  celery,  two  sjioon- 
fuls  of  lice,  may  be  put  to  the  stock,  well  boiled,  and  the  potatoes 
added  when  all  are  done  ;  then  pass  through  the  sieve,  return  to 
soup-kettle,  simmer  five  minutes,  and  serve. 

FISH. 

To  boil  Fresh  Fish.  ŌĆö  Clean,  Avash  thoroughly,  wipe  dry,  and 
then  sew  up  in  a  cloth,  kept  solely  for  fish,  and  plunge  at  once 
into  boiling  water  that  has  been  first  salted  sufficiently.  Sew  the 
cloth  up  on  the  hack  of  the  fish.  Take  it  out  when  done,  cut  the 
threads  down  the  back  of  the  fish,  and  cut  the  skin  of  the  fish  so 
that  in  taking  oft'  the  cloth,  the  skin  will  come  oif  with  it,  leaving 
the  fish  white  and  whole.  Be  careful  not  to  break  it,  as  it  should 
come  to  the  table  in  good  condition.  Eat  with  egg  sauce  or  plain 
drawn  butter.  A  fat  shad  is  very  nice  boiled  ;  but  most  people 
prefer  cod,  rock-fish,  or  bass. 

Baked  Salmon  Trout,  with  Cream  Gravy,  ŌĆö  Wash  and 
clean  the  fish  carefully,wipe  dry  and  lay  in  the  bake- pan,  with  only 
enough  water  to  keep  from  scorching.  If  very  large,  score  the 
backbone  a  little,  but  do  not  cut  the  sides.  Bake  slowly,  basting 
with  butter  and  water,  from  three  quarters  of  an  hoiir  to  an  hour, 
according  to  the  size.  Have  ready  a  cup  of  rich  cream,  into  which 
stir  three  or  four  table-spoonl'uls  of  boiling  water,  else  the  cream 
will  clot  when  heated.  Into  this  stir  gently  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Put  this  into  a  milk- 
boiler  or  farina-kettle,  or  any  vessel  that  you  can  set  into  another, 
half  filled  with  boiling  water,  to  prevent  the  sauce  from  burning. 
Add  to  the  cream  and  butter  the  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan  in 
which  the  fish  was  baked.  Lay  the  trout  on  a  hot  platter  and 
let  tlie  gra^'y  boil  up  once,  and  then  pour  over  the  fish.  Garnish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley,  arranged  neatly.  Use  no  spiced  sauces 
and  very  little  salt.     Serve  hot. 

To  fully  appreciate  the  excellence  of  this  fish  with  the  cream 
sauce  or  gravy,  one  should  be  able  to  eat  it  a  very  short  time 
after  it  is  taken  from  the  water,  but  the  cream  sauce  is  a  great 
improvement  to  most  baked  fish. 

Boiled  Salmon  Trout.  ŌĆö  Wash  and  dry  the  fish  after  clean- 


FISH.  405 

ing  it  ni(;ely.  Wrap  in  a  clean  fish-cloth,  lay  it  in  a  fish-kettle, 
cover  with  cold,  salted  water,  and  boil  slowly  from  half  to  three 
quarters  of  an  hour,  according  to  the  size  of  the  fish.  When  done, 
take  off  the  cloth  gently,  so  as  not  to  break  the  trout  ;  lay  in  a 
hot  fish-platter  and  pour  around  it  cream  gravy  like  that  used  for 
baked  salmon  trout,  and  serve  hot. 

All  fish,  boiled  or  baked,  are  improved  by  cream  gravy.  If 
you  cannot  obtain  cream,  use  rich  milk,  and  thicken  it  a  little. 

Fried  Halibut.  ŌĆö  Have  the  slices  seasoned  some  hours  before 
frying,  as  it  will  be  less  liable  to  break  in  turning  ;  when  ready 
to  fry,  dip  it  in  egg  beaten  up,  and  roll  it  in  bread  crumbs  ;  then 
fry  in  hot  lard,  or  have  three  or  four  slices  of  sweet  salt  pork  fried 
till  quite  brown  and  crisp,  and  then  fry  the  halibut  in  the  hot 
lard  which  came  from  the  pork.  Dish  it  and  lay  the  crisp  brown 
pork  around  it. 

Fish  Chowder.  ŌĆö  Haddock  and  striped  bass  are  generally 
considered  the  best  fish  for  chowder.  Cut  the  fish  in  pieces  about 
one  inch  thick  and  two  inches  square.  Cut  five  or  six  good 
slices  of  the  best  salt  pork,  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot 
and  fry  till  cj'isped,  but  do  not  scorch  ;  take  out  the  pork,  leaving 
the  fat  ;  chop  the  pork  in  small  pieces  ;  put  into  the  pot  a  layer 
of  fish,  a  layer  of  split  crackers  and  some  of  the  chopped  pork  ;  a 
little  red  and  black  pepper  ;  a  little  chopped  onion  ;  then  another 
layer  of  fish,  split  crackers,  and  seasoning,  and  so  on  till  all  the 
fish  is  used.  Then  just  cover  all  with  water,  and  stew  slowly  till 
tender.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  cracker  crumbs  and  catsup  if 
you  like.  Take  out  the  fish,  boil  up  the  gravy  once,  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  fish.  Add  salt 
if  necessary. 

To  prepare  and  dress  Cold  Fish.  ŌĆö  Cut  cold  boiled  fish  into 
pieces  about  an  inch  long.  Do  not  chop  it.  Take  the  yelks  of 
four  eggs,  hard  boiled,  and  rub  them  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  salad  oil  or  melted  butter.  Add  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
and  mustard,  ŌĆö  the  exact  amount  must  be  decided  by  your  own 
taste  and  knowledge  of  how  highly  seasoned  your  family  like 
their  food.  Add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar  ;  rub  all  in 
with  the  i"iaste,  and  the  last  thing  after  getting  the  paste  perfectly 
smooth  put  in  six  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar.     Beat  the  mixture 


400  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

till  very  light,  and  just  before  pouring  it  over  the  fish  beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  with  it.  Stir  half 
the  dressing  into  the  picked-up  fish.  Serve  in  a  glass  dish,  and 
spread  the  other  half  of  the  dressing  over  the  top.  Garnish  with 
delicate  leaves  of  lettuce,  to  be  eaten  with  it. 

Newport  Fish  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Pick  any  cold  fish  left  from  the 
dinner  into  fine  bits,  carefully  removing  all  the  bones.  Thicken 
some  boiling  milk  with  flour,  wet  to  a  batter  with  cold  milk,  and 
stir  the  fish  into  it  ;  season  with  pepper,  butter,  and  salt.  Put  it 
into  a  pudding-dish,  and  spread  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  thickly 
over  the  top  to  prevent  the  milk  from  scorching,  and  set  into  the 
oven  to  bake  just  long  enough  to  brown  nicely.  A  good  Avay  to 
use  up  cold  fish,  maldng  a  nice  breakfast  or  a  side-dish  for  dinner. 

Fish-Balls.  ŌĆö  Salt  codfish  is  usually  preferred  for  making  fish- 
balls,  although  any  fresh  boiled  fish  left  over  from  dinner  is  very 
nice.  When  the  salt  cod  is  used,  it  should  be  put  in  a  damp 
place  for  a  day  or  two  before  using,  to  soften.  Early  in  the 
evening,  before  needed,  it  should  be  thoroughly  washed  in  sev- 
eral waters,  rubbing  it  well,  then  put  to  soak  in  a  large  quantity 
of  lukewarm  water.  Just  before  bedtime  pour  off  the  first  water, 
and  add  more  lukewarm  water  ;  wash  again  in  clean  water  in 
the  morning,  rubbing  off  all  the  salt  crystal  that  may  adhere, 
particularly  on  the  under  side,  and  place  over  the  fire,  in  enough 
warm  water  to  fully  cover  it.  Let  it  come  to  the  boiling-pohit 
slowly,  but  don't  let  it  really  boil  ;  keep  it  simmering  a  half- 
hour.  If  the  fish  is  very  salt,  turn  off  this  water  and  cover  again 
with  boiling  water,  and  let  it  simmer  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
then  drain  and  spread  it  out  to  cool ;  remove  every  bone  and  bit 
of  skin,  and  when  perfectly  cold  pick  to  pieces  very  fine  with  a 
fork.  While  the  fish  is  cooling  have  nice  mealy  potatoes  boiling 
over  the  fire  ;  when  done,  mash  smooth  and  light,  and  add  to  the 
picked-up  fish  a  little  more  than  its  weight  of  potatoes,  say  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  potatoes  to  a  pound  of  fish.  For  a  dozen 
balls  add  one  well-beaten  egg,  or  two  if  plenty,  or  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  rich  cream,  two  spoonfuls  of  butter  ;  beat  all  together  and 
form  into  neat  balls  "with  your  hands  ŌĆö  which  should  be  well 
floured  ŌĆö  and  drop  them  into  a  kettle  or  large  saucepan  of  boil- 
ing lard  or  drippings,  and  fry  a  good  clear  brown.     Plainer  fish- 


FISH,  407 

balls  may  be  made  if  desirable,  omitting  eggs  and  cream,  and 
using  less  butter. 

Codfish  Balls.  ŌĆö  Soak  in  warm  water  as  much  salt  codfish 
as  is  needed,  judging  by  the  size  of  the  family.  Let  it  stand  in 
the  water  all  night.  In  the  morning  pick  out  all  the  bones, 
press  out  the  water,  and  choj)  fine.  Boil  the  potatoes  in  the  skin. 
When  done,  peel  and  mash  while  hot  twice  as  much  potato  as 
you  have  fish  ;  mix  well  together  and  moisten  with  cream  or  a 
little  new  milk,  with  a  great  spoonful  of  butter.  Have  some 
well-clarified  drippings  or  sweet  lard  ready  in  a  saucepan.  Let 
it  get  boiling  hot,  and  then  put  in  the  fish-balls.  They  should 
be  made  a  little  more  than  half  an  inch  thick.  Fry  a  good,  clear 
brown,*  taking  care  not  to  scorch  them.  One  egg  well  beaten  is 
an  improvement. 

Scalloped  Crabs.  ŌĆö  Wash  the  crabs  and  put  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  A\ater,  throw  in  a  handful  of  salt.  Boil  from  twenty  min- 
utes to  half  an  hour.  Take  them  from  the  water  when  done,  and 
pick  out  all  the  meat ;  be  careful  and  not  break  the  shell.  To  a 
pint  of  meat  put  a  little  salt  and  pepper  ;  we  cannot  give  the 
'  exact  amount,  as  tastes  differ  so  widely  ;  but  taste,  and  if  there 
is  not  enough  add  more,  a  little  at  a  time  till  suited.  Grate 
in  a  very  little  nutmeg,  and  add  one  spoonful  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter 
(even  full)  ;  stir  all  well  together  ;  wash  the  shells  clean  and  fill 
each  shell  full  of  the  mixture  ;  sprinkle  crumbs  over  the  top  and 
set  in  the  oven  till  of  a  nice  brown  ;  a  few  minutes  will  do  it. 
Send  to  the  table  hot. 

Oyster  Pie.  ŌĆö  Line  a  deep  dish  with  good  puff  paste,  not  too 
rich.  Roll  out  the  upper  crust,  and  lay  on  a  plate  just  the  size 
of  the  oyster-dish  ;  set  it  on  the  top  of  the  dish  and  put  into  the 
oven,  as  the  crust  must  be  nearly  cooked  before  the  03'sters  are 
put  in,  for  they  require  less  time  than  the  crust.  While  the  crust 
is  bakmg,  strain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  ;  thicken  it  with  the 
yelks  of  eggs,  boiled  hard  and  grated,  ŌĆö  three  eggs  for  seventy- 
five  oysters  ;  add  two  even  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  the 
same  quantity  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  ;  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  mace  or  nutmeg,  ŌĆö  a  very  little  of  either,  ŌĆö  and  by 
tasting,  be  sure  that  you  do  not  season  it  too  much  ;  to  add  is 


408  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

very  easy,  but  to  take  out  seasoning  in  cooking  is  a  difficult  task. 
Let  the  liquor  just  boil  ;  then  slip  in  the  oysters,  and  as  soon  as 
they  come  to  a  boil,  stir  well  and  remove  the  plate  with  top  crust, 
and  pour  them  and  their  gravy  into  the  hot  bake-dish  ;  place  the 
top  crust  over,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Send  to 
the  table  hot. 

Oyster  Fritters.  ŌĆö  Drain  off  the  liquor  and  wipe  the  oysters 
dry  ;  season  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  if  not  salt  enough. 
Make  a  batter  with  a  pint  of  milk  and  flour  enough  to  mix  not 
very  stiff.  Beat  the  yelks  of  three  eggs  thoroughly,  and  put  to 
the  batter,  beating  all  a  good  deal.  Whisk  the  whites  to  a  stiff, 
dry  froth,  and  stir  in  gently  the  last  thing.  Take  up  a  spoonful 
of  batter  on  a  spoon,  lay  an  oyster  on  top,  and  cover  Avith  a  little 
more  batter,  and  with  a  broad  knife  slip  this  off  gently  into  a  pan 
of  boiling  lard.  When  brown  on  both  sides,  drain  on  a  perforated 
plate,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

To  Fry  Oysters.  ŌĆö  Take  from  the  shells  carefully  so  as  not  to 
tear  or  break  them  ;  dry  in  a  clean  fish-cloth  ;  beat  the  yelks  of 
eggs  with  thick  cream,  ŌĆö  one  yelk  to  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  ; 
rub  together  some  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  a  little  salt  and  cay-  ŌĆó 
enne  pepper.  Have  half  a  pound  of  butter  boiling  hot  in  a  skil- 
let ;  dip  each  oyster  in  the  beaten  yelks  and  cream  ;  then  roll  in 
the  cracker  crumbs,  taking  pains  to  have  the  crumbs  adhere 
thickly  to  the  oyster.  Drop  into  the  skillet,  and  fry  of  a  light 
broAvn  on  each  side.  They  should  be  crisp  and  light.  Drain  free 
from  all  grease,  and  serve  hot. 

Lobster  Fatties.  ŌĆö  Boil  two  or  three  good  lobsters  ;  take  out 
all  the  meat,  and  chop  very  fine  ;  mash  the  coral  smooth,  and 
mix  with  the  meat.  Boil  three  or  four  eggs  hard,  and  grate  the 
yelks,  mashing  or  rolling  the  whites  to  make  them  heavy  and 
waxy.  Season  the  whole  with  salt,  cayenne,  a  very  little  pounded 
mace  or.  nutmeg,  and  a  small  portion  of  lemon-rind,  grated. 
Moisten  the  whole  with  cream,  fresh  butter,  or  salad-oil.  (Be 
careful  that  you  do  not  use  too  much  of  any  of  these  seasonings. 
It  will  make  the  whole  bitter.  In  all  of  these  strong  flavors, 
only  just  an  intimation  that  they  are  present  is  necessary.)  Put 
it  into  a  stew-pan,  add  a  little  water,  put  over  the  fire  till  it 
just  comes  to  a  boil ;  then  remove  from   the  fire.     Make  puflf 


FISH.  409 

paste,  and  line  deep  patty-pans.  Bake  the  paste  before  iilling, 
while  prei)anng  the  lobster.  As  soon  as  the  lobster  has  been  re- 
moved from  the  fire,  and  is  partially  cooled,  take  the  crust  from 
the  oven  and  fill  the  patty-pans  with  the  mixture  to  the  top. 
Crabs  or  prawns  may  be  made  into' patties  in  a  similar  manner. 

Lobster  Rissoles.  ŌĆö  Boil  the  lobster,  take  out  the  meat, 
mince  it  fine  ;  pound  the  coral  smooth,  and  grate  the  yelks  of 
three  hard-boiled  eggs  for  one  lobster.  Season  with  cayenne 
pepper,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  salt.  Make  a  batter  of  milk,  flour, 
and  well-beaten  eggs,  ŌĆö  two  table-spoonfuls  of  milk  and  one  of 
flour  to  each  egg.  Beat  this  batter  well,  and  mix  the  lobster 
with  it  gradually,  till  it  is  stifl"  enough  to  roll  into  balls  the  size  of 
a  large  plum.  Fry  in  fresh  butter,  or  the  best  salad-oil,  and  ser\'e 
up  either  warm  or  cold.  Similar  rissoles  may  be  made  of  raw  oys- 
ters minced  fine,  or  of  boiled  clams.    These  should  be  fried  in  lard. 

Fish  Sauce.  ŌĆö  Four  ounces  of  butter  blended  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  ul'  flour  ;  stir  in  gradually  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
stirring  all  the  time.  When  smooth,  put  it  into  a  farina-kettle  or 
milk-boiler,  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  If  too  thick,  add  a  little 
more  Avater.  Beat  two  eggs  to  a  foam,  and  stir  in  the  last  thing 
before  removing  it  from  the  fire.  A  little  parsley  chopped  fine 
added  to  this  sauce,  or  an  onion,  is  relished  by  some. 

A  good  Breakfast  Dish.  ŌĆö When  any  boiled  fresh  fish  is 
left  from  dinner,  take  out  all  the  bones  carefully,  and  pick  the 
fish  up  in  small  bits.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  with  some 
of  the  fish,  and,  if  needed,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  the  fish  sauce,  if  any  was  left  from  dinner  ;  then 
sprinkle  over  some  fine  bread  crumbs  ;  then  another  layer  of  fish, 
with  sauce  ;  then  bread  crumbs,  until  the  dish  is  full.  If  all  the 
fish  sauce  is  used  without  making  the  composition  quite  moist, 
beat  two  eggs  very  light,  and  add  a  cup  of  milk  and  pour  over 
the  whole  ;  then  cover  with  more  bread  crumbs,  and  set  in  the 
oven  long  enough  to  heat  through  and  brown  delicately.  If  no 
fish  sauce  is  left  over,  take  two  great  spooonfuls  of  butter,  cut  in 
little  bits,  and  lay  in  alternately  with  the  fish  and  crumbs  ;  use 
four  eggs  instead  of  two,  and  a  pint  of  milk. 

Best  Mode  of  Roasting  Fish,  Ducks,  Ac  ŌĆö  The  very  best 
way  of  cooking  fish  and  fowl  ever  devised  is  familiar  to  woodmen, 
18 


410  CHOICE   FAMILY  RECEIPTS, 

but  unknown  to  city  epicures.  It  is  this  :  Take  a  large  fish,  ŌĆö 
say  a  trout  of  three  or  four  pounds,  fresh  from  its  gambols  in  the 
cool  stream,  ŌĆö  cut  a  small  hole  in  the  neck  and  abstract  the  in- 
testines. Wash  the  inside  clean,  and  season  it  with  pepper  and 
salt ;  or,  if  convenient,  fill  it  with  bread  crumbs  or  crackers  chopped 
up  with  meat.  Make  a  fire  outside  the  tent,  and  when  it  has 
burned  down  to  embers,  rake  it  open,  put  in  the  fish,  and  cover 
it  with  coals  and  hot  ashes.  Within  an  hour  take  it  from  its  bed, 
peel  off  the  skin  from  the  clean  flesh,  and  you  will  have  a  trout 
with  all  its  original  juices  and  flavors  preserved  within  it,  ŌĆö  a 
dish  too  good,  as  Izaak  Walton  would  say,  "for  any  but  very 
honest  men." 

Grouse,  ducks,  and  various  other  fowls  can  be  cooked  deli- 
ciously  in  a  similar  way.  The  intestines  of  the  bird  should  be . 
taken  out  by  a  small  hole  at  the  vent,  and  the  inside  washed  and 
stuffed  as  before.  Then  wet  the  feathers  thoroughly,  and  cover 
with  hot  embers.  When  the  cooking  is  finished,  peel  off  the  burnt 
feathers  and  skin,  and  you  will  find  underneath  a  lump  of  nice 
juicy  flesh,  which,  when  once  tasted,  will  never  be  forgotten. 
The  peculiar  advantage  of  this  method  of  roasting  is  that  the 
covering  of  embers  prevents  the  escape  of  juices  by  evaporation. 
This  comes  from  the  "  Trappers'  Guide,"  and  we  know  it  is  good. 

MEATS. 

BEEF. 

Leicestershire  Hunting  Beef.  ŌĆö  Take  four  ounces  saltpetre 
or  one  of  allspice.  Rub  it  over  a  nice  round  of  beef  very  thor- 
oughly. Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  rub  it  in  as  much 
common  salt  as  will  be  needed  to  salt  it  to  suit  your  taste.  Keep 
it  in  a  cool  place  twelve  days,  turning  it  every  day,  then  put  it  into 
a  deep  pan  and  cover  it,  upper  and  under  side,  with  three  pounds 
of  beef  suet.  Then  cover  with  a  thick  paste,  and  bake  slowly  for 
six  hours.  It  will  keep  for  six  months,  and  is  highly  spoken  of 
by  English  people.  We  have  never  tried  it,  but  by  request  give 
the  receipt,  which  we  have  had  for  a  long  time  in  our  possession. 

Spiced  Beef.  ŌĆö  Boil  a  shin  of  ten  or  twelve  pounds  of  beef 
until  the  meat  readily  falls  from  the  bone.     Pick  the  meat  to 


BEEF.  411 

pieces  and  mash  the  gristle  veiy  fine,  rejecting  all  parts  that  are 
too  hard  to  mash.  Set  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled  away 
till  cool,  then  take  off  all  the  fat.  Boil  the  liquor  down  to  a  pint 
and  a  lialf ;  then  return  the  meat  to  the  liquor,  and,  while  hot, 
add  any  salt  and  pepper  that  may  be  needed,  a  half-teaspoonful 
of  cloves,  the  same  of  cinnamon,  a  little  nutmeg,  a  half-spoonful 
of  parsley  chopped  fine,  a  very  little  sage  and  summer  savory,  if 
agreeable,  not  quite  half  a  salt-spoonful.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  and 
put  it  into  a  mold  or  deep  dish  to  cool.  Cut  in  thm  slices  for 
breakfast  or  tea. 

Curried  Beef. ŌĆö  In  reply  to  inquiries  how  to  use  '^  curry  pow- 
der," we  give  the  following  :  Put  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  and,  when  hot,  put  in  two  small  onions, 
sliced  very  thin  ;  fry  until  brown  ;  then  add  a  table-spoonful  and 
a  half  of  curry  powder,  mixing  all  well  together.  Take  three 
pounds  of  the  best  of  a  round  of  beef;  cut  in  pieces  an  inch 
square  ;  pour  over  it  the  milk  of  a  cocoanut,  and  a  quarter  of  the 
meat  of  the  nut  grated  very  fine  and  squeezed  through  muslin  ; 
moisten  with  a  little  water, ŌĆö  only  enough  to  make  it  pass  through 
the  muslin  easily.  The  cocoanut  meat  and  milk  soften  the  taste 
of  the  curry,  and  no  curry  is  ever  made  in  India  without  it.  If 
this  does  not  make  liquor  enough,  add  half  a  teacup  boiling  water, 
and  let  the  whole  simmer  for  thirty  minutes.  Serve  hot,  in  a  dish 
with  sliced  lemon,  and  a  waU  of  mashed  potatoes  or  boiled  rice 
around  it. 

Meat  Pie.  ŌĆö  Cut  up  some  pieces  of  good,  tender  raw  beef  or 
mutton,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and,  if  liked,  one  finely  minced 
onion.  Boil  a  half-dozen  good-sized  mealy  potatoes,  mash  smooth 
and  wet  with  enough  milk  to  form  a  dough  to  make  the  crast  ; 
salt  to  please  the  taste  ;  roll  out  full  half  an  inch  thick,  and  line 
a  buttered  dish  large  enough  to  hold  the  meat.  Lay  in  the  meat, 
add  a  teacup  of  water,  or  less  if  the  pie  is  to  be  for  a  small  family, 
then  roll  out  a  thick  crust  of  the  potato,  covering  the  top  of  the 
pie  at  least  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Beef  CoUops.  ŌĆö  Cut  the  fillet  from  the  under  part  of  a  rump 
of  beef  into  thin  slices  ;  broil  quickly  until  nearly  done,  then  put 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  beef-stock  ;  add  two  or  three  slices 
of  lemon  or  pickled  cucumber  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  catsup, 


412  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

and  stew  till  tender.  Half  a  pint  of  oysters  added  ten  minutes 
before  it  is  done  is  a  great  improvement. 

To  Cook  a  Beefsteak.  ŌĆö  Put  a  frying-pan  over  the  stove  till 
it  becomes  quite  bot.  Have  your  steak  well  pounded  or  man- 
gled, ŌĆö  a  siaioin  steak  is  very  good  for  this  purpose,  ŌĆö  lay  it  on 
the  hot,  dry  pan  and  cover  it  instantly  as  tightly  as  possible. 
"When  the  meat  touches  the  heatad  pan  it  will  seethe  and  adhere 
to  it,  but  in  a  few  seconds  it  will  become  loosened  and  juicy  ; 
turn  the  steak  every  half-minute,  but  be  careful  to  do  it  as  tj^uickly 
as  possible,  so  that  it  may  not  be  long  uncovered.  When  nearly 
done,  sprinkle  on  pepper  and  salt,  lay  a  small  piece  of  butter  on 
the  steak,  and  add  a  table-spoonful  of  strong  coffee.  This  makes 
a  delicious  broiled  steak.  Or,  if  you  wish  much  gravy,  shake  a 
little  flour  over  the  steak  when  just  done,  and  pour  in  three  or 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  cream,  let  it  just  boil  up,  under  cover,  and 
when  the  meat  is  done,  take  the  pan  from  the  fire,  remove  the 
meat,  stir  in  quickly  the  well-beaten  yelk  of  an  egg,  and  serve  hot. 
If  cream  is  used,  omit  the  coffee.  Mutton  or  ham  may  be  cooked 
in  the  same  way,  only  they  should  be  over  the  fire  longer  than  beef. 

Rump  Steak,  with  Oyster  Sauce.  ŌĆö  Broil  the  steak  nicely ; 
put  four  even  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  add  pep- 
per and  salt'to  your  taste  ;  shake  in  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  and 
add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  when  it  begins  to  boil  up,  put  in 
as  many  oysters  as  can  be  used  in  this  preparation  ;  let  them  heat 
through  and  just  boil  up  once,  taking  care  to  shake  the  pan  and 
keep  its  contents  stirring  all  the  time  it  is  over  the  fire.  When 
the  oysters  are  done,  ŌĆö  a  pint  to  one  steak  is  about  the  right 
quantity,  ŌĆö  pour  all  over  the  steak,  and  serve. 

A  French  Broil. ŌĆö  Select  a  spider  or  saucepan  with  a  smooth, 
clean  bottom,  set  it  over  the  range  or  stove  till  really  hot,  then  lay 
on  a  good  tenderloin  or  sirloin  steak  ;  keep  the  spider  very  hot, 
and  turn  the  steak  as  often,  as  every  two  minutes,  ŌĆö  no  longer  ; 
when  half  done,  sprinkle  over  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste  of 
those  who  are  to  eat  it ;  continue  to  turn  the  steak  often  till  suffi- 
ciently done  ;  just  as  you  are  ready  to  take  up  and  dish  the  steak, 
dust  a  little  flour  over  it,  spi;ead  on  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  or, 
if  a  large  steak,  a  little  more  ;  turn  it  over,  dust  on  more  flour, 
and  spread  on  the  butter  as  on  the  first  side  ;  turn  again,  set  the 


BEEF,  413 

saucepan  back  from  the  hot  fire,  take  the  steak  on  to  the  phittcr, 
and  set  in  a  heater  or  oven  to  keep  liot,  but  not  to  cook  any  more  ; 
sliake  more  tiour  into  the  butter  in  the  saucepan,  set  a^ain  over 
tlie  fire,  and  as  soon  as  the  butter  bubbles  up  through  the  flour, 
rub  it  smooth  with  a  spoon  and  pour  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  l)oil- 
iiig  water  ;  stir  constantly,  and  as  soon  as  it  thickens,  pour  over 
the  steak,  and  serve  hot. 

Beefsteak  Rolls.  ŌĆö  Cut  small,  thin  steaks  from  the  round  ; 
fry  them  slightly  ;  make  a  stuffing  as  for  roast  veal  or  turkey  ; 
spread  it  over  the  steaks,  roll  them  up  tightly,  and  sew  or  tie  up 
neatly.  Stew  them  in  rich  beef  stock  or  brown  gravy  twenty 
minutes,  and  serve  hot,  with  the  gravy  poured  over.  A  half-tea- 
cup of  rich  cream  added  a  few  minutes  before  serving  is  a  great 
improvement. 

Beef  Croquettes.  ŌĆö  Chop  cold  roast  beef  or  veal  with  one 
onion  very  fine  ;  add  a  little  sweet-marjoraiu,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  cloves,  and  as  much  salt  and  pepper  as  will  be  palatable. 
Moisten  with  a  rich  beef  gravy,  from  which  all  the  fat  has  cooled 
and  been  removed.  Roll  into  balls,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in 
iiour,  or  In'ead  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  good,  sweet  lard. 

Mock  Duck.  ŌĆö  Pi'epare  a  good  dressing,  such  as  you  like  for 
turkey  or  duck  ;  take  a  round  steak,  pound  it,  but  not  very  hard, 
spread  the  dressing  over  it,  sprinkle  in  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
few  bits  of  butter,  lap  over  the  ends,  roll  the  steak  up  tight  and 
tie  it  closely  ;  spread  two  great  spoonfuls  of  butter  over  the  steak 
after  rolling  it  up,  then  wash  with  a  well-beaten  egg,  put  water  in 
the  bake-pan,  lay  in  the  steak  so  as  not  to  touch  the  water,  and 
bake  as  you  would  a  duck,  basting  often.  A  half-hour  in  a  brisk 
oven  will  cook  it.     Make  a  brown  grav}^,  and  send  to  table  hot. 

A  Nice  Breakfast  Dish,  ŌĆö  Grate  some  cold  tongue  or  beef, 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk  ;  when  quite  hot,  put  in  four  well- 
beaten  eggs  ;  stir  all  the  time  till  the  mixture  is  quite  thick  ; 
have  ready  some  nicely  toasted  bread,  well  buttered,  and  spread 
the  tongue  or  beef  over  it  ;  send  to  table  hot. 

Mock  Venison.  ŌĆö  Cut  a  nice  piece  of  corned  beef  in  thin  slices 
and  soak  three  or  four  hours  in  tepid  water,  changing  the  water 
often.     Be  siu-e  and  have  plenty  of  water  to  soak  it  in.     When 


414  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

sufficiently  freshened,  drain,  wipe  dry,  put  on  a  hot  gridiron,  and 
broil  quickly,  turning  often,  only  enough  to  be  fully  hot  through. 
Make  a  gravy  of  drawn  butter,  add  a  little  pepper,  taste  before 
adding  salt  ;  chop  fine  the  yelk  of  an  egg  boiled  hard,  and,  if 
agreeable,  a  little  boiled  onion,  and  pour  over  it ;  or  simply  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  a  little  salt,  as  for  beefsteak.  This  is  an  excel- 
lent dish  when  so  situated  as  to  have  little  opportunity  for  fresh 
meat,  but  a  fresh  beefsteak  thus  seasoned  is  better. 

To  prepare  Cold  Roast  Beef  or  Mutton. ŌĆö  Cut  off  the 
meat  as  thin  as  possible  ;  dip  each  slice  in  flour  ;  coA^er  the  bot- 
tom of  a  deep  dish  with  a  layer  of  meat  thus  prepared  ;  dust  over 
it  a  little  pej)per,  salt,  sage,  and  sweet  marjoram,  ŌĆö  very  little  of 
each  ;  add  another  layer  of  the  meat  dipped  in  flour  and  seasoned 
in  the  same  way.  Continue  this  till  the  dish  is  half  full,  then 
pour  over  it  what  gravy  was  left,  being  careful  to  remove  every 
particle  of  fat.  If  not  gravy  enough,  substitute  water.  Turn  in 
half  a  teacup  of  catsup,  or  half  a  pint  of  tomatoes,  adding  a  little 
clove  or  allspice.  Add  water  enough  t┬½  fill  it  nearly  full,  fit  a 
plate  tightly  over  it  to  keep  in  the  flavor,  and  bake  two  hours. 
Boil  some  potatoes  and  mash  them,  adding  a  little  salt,  butter, 
and  milk.  Make  it  into  a  high  wall  around  the  edge  of  a  well- 
heated  platter  ;  beat  up  an  egg  and  brush  over  the  potatoes,  and 
when  the  meat  is  done,  turn  it  into  the  platter  ;  slip  it  again  into 
the  oven,  to  remain  long  enough  to  brown  the  potatoes  a  fine 
golden  brown.  The  poorest  and  toughest  parts  of  uncooked  beef 
may  be  made  deliciously  tender  if  prepared  in  this  manner,  but 
it  must  be  in  the  oven  one  hour  longer. 

Economical  Breakfast  Dish.  ŌĆö  If  you  have  a  few  bits  of 
meat  or  two  or  three  cold  potatoes  left  over,  put  some  "  drip- 
pings "  into  a  skiUet ;  slice  the  potatoes  thin,  cut  the  meat  up 
fine,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  then  beat  two  or  three 
eggs,  according  to  the  size  of  the  dish  to  be  prepared  ;  stir  them 
into  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  pour  over  the  meat  and  potatoes. 
If  eggs  are  not  plenty,  use  fewer  eggs  and  more  milk  or  cream. 
If  milk,  add  a  half  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Keep  it  over  the  fire, 
stirring  constantly,  till  the  eggs  are  cooked.  It  takes  but  a  few 
moments  to  prepare  this  ;  but  do  not  leave  it  an  instant  till  done, 
or  the  eggs  will  burn  and  ruin  the  whole. 


MUTTON   AND   LAMB.  415 

A  "  Two  Story."  ŌĆö  A  genuine  farmer's  dish,  but  fit  to  set 
before  a  king,  ŌĆö  so  we  are  assured  by  one  who  knows. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  potatoes  and  onions  (five  potatoes  to  one 
small  onion)  ;  cut  half  a  pound  of  sweet  salt  pork  in  thin  slices 
to  a  pound  of  beef,  mutton,  or  veal ;  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  ; 
take  some  nice  bread  dough  and  shorten  a  little,  and  line  the  bot- 
tom of  the  stewpan  with  slices  of  pork  ;  then  a  layer  of  meat, 
potatoes,  and  onions  ;  dust  over  a  little  pepper,  and  cover  with  a 
layer  of  crust ;  then  more  pork,  meat,  and  vegetables  ;  then  more 
crust.  Repeat  this  till  the  stew-pot  is  full,  Ō¢Ā ŌĆö  the  size  of  the  pot 
will  depend  on  the  number  of  the  family  ;  pour  in  sufficient  water 
to  cover  ;  finish  with  crust.  Let  it  simmer  till  meat,  vegetables, 
etc.,  are  done,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  hard.     Serve  hot. 

MUTTON   AND   LAMB. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  Boiled.  ŌĆö  All  mutton  should  hang  in 
a  cool  place  till  quite  tender  before  being  used,  but  be  careful  that 
it  does  not  hang  long  enough  to  acquire  the  least  rust  or  taint. 
When  the  shoulder  has  hung  till  tender,  bone  it ;  rub  a  little  salt 
over  it,  and  let  it  lie  in  a  deep  dish  for  two  days,  turning  it  over 
each  day  and  rubbing  in  a  little  more  salt,  ŌĆö  half  a  table-spoonful 
each  time.  Meat  to  boil  requires  more  salt  than  for  roasting.  On 
the  third  day,  sprinkle  over  the  inside  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace.  Spread  twenty  oysters 
over  the  inside  ;  roll  the  meat  wp  tightly  and  tie  securely  ;  put  it 
into  the  steAvjian  or  boiler  with  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
it  ;  throw  in  six  peppercorns,  or  seeds  of  the  red  pepper,  and  one 
onion  chopped  ;  shut  the  cover  over  very  closely,  and  stew  ; 
twenty  minutes'  cooking  for  each  pound  of  meat  is  the  proper 
time.  Stew  twenty-four  oysters  in  a  pint  of  good  stock  or  gravy ; 
add  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  and  enough  flour  to  thicken  it. 
When  the  meat  is  done,  lay  it  in  a  good-sized  platter  and  pour 
the  gravy  over  it. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  Spiced.  ŌĆö  Bone  carefully  a  shoulder 
of  mutton,  after  it  has  hung  till  tender.  For  every  pound  of 
meat  mix  two  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  one  salt-spoonful  of  cloves, 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  mace  and  pepper,  and  half  a  salt-spoonful 
of  ginger  ;  rub  these  spices  thoroughly  into  the  meat ;  lay  it  into 


416  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

a  deep  dish,  and  the  next  day  rub  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt 
for  every  pound  of  meat,  and  add  one  pint  and  a  half  of  good 
beef  gravy  for  the  whole  joint.  Turn  the  meat  over  ;  rub  it  well 
Avith  this  pickle  every  day  for  a  week  or  ten  days,  letting  it  re- 
main in  the  pickle  all  the  time  after  each  rubbing.  At  the  end 
of  the  week  or  ten  days,  roll  it  up  tightly,  bind  with  a  string,  and 
stew  gently  in  beef  broth  four  hours.  Serve  hot  in  its  own  gravy, 
and  eat  with  any  piquant  sauce  or  catsup. 

Mutton  Stew.  ŌĆö  Take  such  scraps  of  mutton  or  lamb  as  are 
not  fit  for  chops  or  cutlets  ;  just  cover  with  water  ;  add  a  little 
onion  and  parsley,  if  not  disagreeable,  and  season  well  with  black 
and  red  pepper  ;  boil  two  eggs  hard,  or,  if  making  a  good-sized 
stew,  use  more  (two  are  plenty  for  five  persons)  ;  mash  or  grate 
the  yelks  fine,  and  stir  them  into  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  and 
the  same  amount  of  browned  flour.  Stir  this  into  the  stew  just 
before  dishing,  to  season  and  thicken  the  gravy.  Let  it  boil  up 
once  after  adding  this,  and  serve  as  soon  as  it  thickens. 

Roasting  a  Leg  of  Lamb.  ŌĆö ŌĆó  Slice  salt  pork  very  thin,  cutting 
two  slices  down  to  the  rind,  leaving  the  rind  on  to  make  the 
piece  as  large  as  possible  ;  make  as  many  of  these  thin  slices  as 
will  cover  the  whole  leg  ;  then  wrap  the  whole  in  grape-leaves  ; 
pass  a  string  round  to  keep  them  on,  and  roast.  It  is  said  the 
lamb  will  be  exceedingly  juicy  and  of  delicious  flavor.  Never 
baste  meat  with,  butter,  but  with  rich  soup  stock. 

To  use  Cold  Lamb.  ŌĆö  When  lamb  or  mutton  is  left  in  good 
shape,  ŌĆö  and  it  is  the  fault  of  the  carver  if  it  is  not  always  left 
neatly,  ŌĆö  cut  off  some  chops  ;  trim  off  the  greater  portion  of  fat, 
and  saw  or  cut  off  the  end  of  the  bone.  Heat  a  platter,  and  pour 
into  the  centre  some  nicely  cooked  fresh  green  peas,  or  in  winter 
canned  peas.  Heap  them  in  the  centre  in  the  shape  of  a  pyra- 
mid ;  brown  the  chops  quickly  over  a  bright  fire,  season  in  a  hot 
plate  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  and  then  arrange  them  around 
the  peas,  the  small  end  laid  upon  the  pj^ramid  of  peas.  Garnish 
the  edge  of  the  dish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  each  circled 
in  a  fringe  of  curled  parsley.     Serve  hot. 

Mint  Sauce.  ŌĆö  Three  table-spoonfuls  of  fresh  mint  finely 
chopped,  five  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  two  of  sugar,  dis- 
solved in  the  vinegar.     To  be  used  with  roast  lamb  or  chops. 


VENISON.  417 

If  so  miKh  vinegar  is  disagreeable,  use  one  third  water  and  a 
little  more  sugar. 

VENISON. 

Jerked  Venison.  ŌĆö  Take  the  haunches  when  the  deer  is  first 
Icilled  ;  rub  in  as  much  salt  as  you  can  ;  press  and  squeeze  the 
meat  hard  Avith  your  hands  to  get  out  all  the  blood  ;  then  hang 
it  up  in  some  covered  alley  or  shed,  where  the  sun  will  not  di- 
rectly strike  it,  but  where  the  dry  breezes  will  sweep  over  it.  If 
not  quite  salt  enough  the  next  day,  rub  more  salt  on  ;  sf^ueeze 
and  press  out  all  the  blood  which  may  still  remain,  and  hang  up 
again.  Two  or  three  days  will  dry  it.  When  needed,  cut  off 
nice  slices,  rather  thin  ;  lay  them  in  a  dish  of  cold  water  a  short 
time  to  soften  a  little,  then  broil,  serving  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Or,  fry  a  piece  of  bacon  crisp  ;  then  lay  the  pieces  of  venison  into 
the  hot  fat,  and  warm  through  quickly  ;  shake  a  little  flour  over 
the  meat,  and  when  done  salt  and  jjepper  ;  place  the  meat  on  a 
hot  platter  ;  sift  a  little  more  flour  mto  the  pan  ;  let  it  boil  up  ; 
add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water  ;  boil  up  again,  and  pour  the 
brown  gravy  over  the  venison.     It  is  very  sweet  and  palatable. 

In  Florida,  beef  is  also  cured,  or  dried,  so  as  to  keep  for  several 
days.  Cellars  or  ice-houses  not  being  common,  it  is  necessary  to 
resort  to  some  means  of  keeping  it.  Take  a  fine  round  of  beef, 
and  cut  in  slices  as  large  as  your  hand  and  about  half  an  inch 
thick.  String  them  on  a  strong  cord,  and  hang  up  high  in  some 
place  where  the  sun  will  not  shine  directly  on  it,  but  where  a  good 
breeze  of  hot  aii'  will  pass  over  it.  Build  a  fire  of  dry  leaves  or 
bits  of  paper,  and  place  at  one  end  of  the  place  where  the  meat 
is  hung,  so  that  the  wind  will  take  the  smoke  under  and  over  it ; 
this  will  keep  the  flies  away  till  the  oiitside  of  the  meat  is  too  dry 
for  them  to  injure  it.  A  day  or  two  in  the  dry  breezes  here  will 
cure  it,  so  that  it  may  be  put  in  paper  bags  and  kept  in  a  dark, 
dry  place  several  days,  to  broil  as  it  is  needed.  It  is  wonderfully 
sweet,  probably  because  in  drying  all  the  juices  of  the  meat  are 
secured.  Our  Northern  aii-  is  not  so  drying,  but  we  see  no  reason 
why,  in  summer,  those  who  have  not  smoke  or  ice  houses  could  not 
hang  meat  under  the  trees,  away  from  the  sun,  keeping  up  a  smoke 
sufficient  to  drive  away  flies  but  not  strong  enough  to  heat  the  meat. 
It  is  an  experiment  well  worth  tr}'ing. 

18*  A  A 


418  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

Venison  Steaks.  ŌĆö  Heat  the  gridiron,  grease  it  well.  Lay  on 
the  steak  ;  broil  quickly,  without  scorchiug,  turning  it  two  or 
three  times  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  the  butter 
melted  in  a  well-heated  platter,  into  which  the  steak  must  be 
laid  hot  from  the  gridiron,  turning  it  over  two  or  three  times  in 
the  butter,  and  send  to  table  hot.  It  is  well  to  set  the  platter  into 
another  in  which  you  have  some  boiling  water.  Venison  should 
not  be  overdone,  and  must  be  eaten  hot. 

COOKING   IN   A   "  RUMFORD   BOILER." 

In  one  of  our  "  talks  "  in  Part  First  we  said  something  of  the 
Eumford  Boiler.  We  subjoin  here  a  few  hints  as  to  the  use  of 
it.  Other  similar  "  boilers  "  or  "  steamers  "  or  "  cookers  "  can  also 
be  advantageously  used.  The  "  Rumford  "  happens  to  be  the  one 
Ave  have  used  and  thoroughly  like. 

To  Roast  Beef  or  Mutton.  ŌĆö  Have  boiling  water  two  or 
three  inches  deep  in  the  lower  part  of  the  boiler,  deep  enough  to 
just  touch  the  bottom  of  the  pan  to  be  set  over  it.  Place  the 
meat  in  the  inner  pan  without  water,  first  seasoning  it  Avith  salt 
and  pepper,  if  agreeable.     Put  on  the  cover,  fitting  it  in  tightly. 

When  the  Avater  begins  to  boil,  set  the  boiler  back  on  the  stove 
or  range,  Avhere  it  Avill  keep  just  at  the  boiling  point,  and  let  it 
remain  cooking  the  usual  time,  ŌĆö  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound 
is  generally  thought  long  enough.  When  done  take  it  out, 
dredge  Avith  flour  and  put  into  a  quick  oven  to  broAvn,  but  not 
scorch. 

It  is  usually  estimated  that  one  pint  of  gravy  is  lost  AA'hen 
meat  is  boiled  the  usual  way.  Here  you  have  it  all  saved  in  the 
dish,  the  pure  juice  of  the  meat  making  excellent  gravy. 

To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Lamb  or  Mutton.  ŌĆö  Keep  in  the  boiler 
the  ordinary  length  of  time,  with  no  Avater  in  the  receiver  or  pan 
(Avhich  in  all  cases  should  be  tightly  closed),  and  send  to  the  table 
Avithout  browning. 

Corned  Beef.  ŌĆö  If  very  salt,  the  beef  should  be  soaked  in  cold 
water  three  or  four  hours  ;  then  put  it  in  the  inner  A'^essel  with 
cold  Avater  enough  to  coA^er  it.  Keep  the  Avater  in  the  bottom  re- 
ceiver boiling  sloAvly  till  the  beef  is  done.  Salt  meat  needs  to  be 
cooked  longer  than  fresh  ;  fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound  for  fresh, 


RUMFORD  BOILER  COOKING.  419 

and  twenty  minutes  for  salt,  is  the  rule  usually  given,  but  we  have 
not  found  the  latter  long  enough.  A  piece  weighing  nine  pounds 
should  cook  four  hours,  if  without  much  bone,  and  three  with 
bone.  We  think  that  better  ŌĆö  more  sure  ŌĆö  than  twenty  minutes 
to  a  pound. 

The  water  in  which  salt  meat  is  thus  cooked  makes  excellent 
stock  for  soup.  If  too  salt  (it  should  not  be  if  the  beef  was 
properly  freshened),  add  water  sufhcient  to  make  it  right. 

To  Cook  a  Ham.  ŌĆö  Freshen  the  ham  by  soaking  in  cold 
water  three  or  four  hours,  then  scrape  clean  and  wipe  dry. 
Stick  a  few  cloves  into  it,  rub  on  a  half-cup  of  sugar,  and  put 
in  the  inner  vessel  vdthoiU  aitij  water ;  cover  closely,  and  set  over 
the  boiling  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  boiler  ;  bring  to  a  boil, 
and  then  set  back  a  little  that  it  may  cook  slowly  till  tender, 
about  four  hours.  This  will  be  found  very  excellent  in  flavor, 
far  surpassing  ham  boiled  in  the  common  way.  If  liked,  when 
done,  the  ham  may  be  set  in  a  quick  oven  and  delicately  browned, 
like  roast  beef  or  mutton. 

Fish.  ŌĆö  Season  a  fresh  fish  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  butter,  and  put  in  the  receiver,  or  inner  pan,  without  any 
ivater;  cover  closely,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Thicken  the  juices 
of  the  fish  which  will  be  found  in  the  pan  with  a  little  flour,  wet  in 
cold  water,  and  let  it  simmer  a  few  minutes  in  the  pan,  closely 
covered.     This  makes  an  excellent  sauce  for  the  fish. 

Steaks  of  cod,  salmon,  halibut,  or  any  other  fish,  usually  fried, 
are  excellent  cooked  in  this  "  Kumford  Boiler,"  and  need  no 
butter  or  sauce  besides  the  juice  which  will  be  left  in  the  vessel, 
and  pepper  and  salt. 

We  have  tried  all  these  receipts  since  we  possessed  this  excel- 
lent boiler,  and  can  testify  to  the  superiority  of  each  dish  over 
that  cooked  in  the  usual  way. 

We  have  cooked  all  our  vegetables  ŌĆö  corn,  peas,  beets,  potatoes 
ŌĆö  in  the  pans  that  are  made  to  fit  over  the  first  vessel  with  tight 
covers,  and  are  greatly  pleased  with  the  improvement.  It  must 
be  remembered  that  each  vessel  should  be  closely  covered,  and 
over  all  the  cover  for  the  whole  boiler.  Bread  of  all  kinds  and 
loaf  cake  are  delicious  cooked  in  a  "  Rimiford,"  and  when  done 
put  into  the  oven  to  broMTi. 


420  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 


Meats  for  June.  ŌĆö  It  is  more  difficult  to  obtain  good  meats 
in  June  than  any  part  of  the  year.  Lamb  is  still  quite  expen- 
sive, and  "  broilers  "  or  spring  chickens  are  dear  and  very  little 
of  them.  What  you  can  manage  to  pick  off  is  dry,  stringy,  and, 
we  cannot  but  think,  indigestible.  Veal  is  the  only  meat  within 
the  reach  of  all  classes  :  but  be  very  sure  that  you  obtain  that 
which  has  been  healthily  fed,  and  butchered  as  humanely  as  is 
possible.  It  is  well  that  we  do  not  see  or  know  all  the  barbarity 
of  the  butchers'  shops,  or  we  should  perforce  become  vegetari- 
ans. There  are  many  ways  of  using  the  less  desirable  portions  of 
veal,  that  when  properly  carried  out  make  some  very  inviting 
breakfast  or  tea  dishes. 

Calf's  Head  and  Harslet.  ŌĆö  The  head  to  be  sj^lit  open,  the 
grease  screened  off,  and  eyes  taken  out,  before  bringing  from  the 
butcher's.  "Wash  very  carefully,  and  scrape  thoroughly.  Take 
out  the  brains  and  put  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water ;  also  lay 
the  head,  when  cleaned,  into  a  large  pan  of  water.  Then  see 
that  the  harslet  is  well  cleaned  ;  leave  the  windpipe  on  the 
lights,  and  let  all  soak  in  cold  water,  and  plenty  of  it,  for  half 
an  hour.  Have  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water  ready.  Two  hours 
before  dinner  put  in  the  heart  and  lights,  leaving  the  windpipe 
a  little  way  out  of  the  pot  to  carry  off  the  scum  that  will  rise 
while  boiling.  Put  in  salt,  black  and  red  pepper,  ŌĆö  very  little  of 
the  latter,  ŌĆö  and  a  little  thyme  and  parsley.  One  hour  after  put 
in  the  liver  ;  skim  often.  When  the  brains  have  soaked  till  free 
from  blood,  pick  out  all  the  veins  or  fibers,  roll  half  a  cracker 
and  put  it  with  the  brains  and  a  little  parsley  into  a  clean  bit  of 
muslin,  tie  it  up,  and  put  into  the  kettle  with  the  head,  etc.  Let 
it  boil  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  take  it  up,  add  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  serve  in  a  small  dish  by  itself.  The  bones 
must  all  be  removed  from  the  head  ;  when  well  done,  they  will 
slip  out  easily.  Lay  the  meat  in  the  center  of  the  platter  ;  skin 
the  tongue,  and  place  it  with  the  meat  ;  remove  the  windpipe, 
and  lay  lights,  heart,  and  liver  around.  Make  a  gravy  of  dra^vn 
batter,  with  parsley,  chopped  fine,  and  two  eggs  beaten,  and 
added  just  as  the  gravy  comes  to  a  boil.     Send  all  to  table  hot. 

Head  and  Harslet  Hash.  ŌĆö  Take  what  may  be   left    from 


VEAL.  421 

dinner  of  the  calf's  head  and  harslet,  chop  very  fine,  use  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  the  drawn  butter,  moisten  with  the  water  in  which 
the  meat  was  boiled,  put  over  the  fire  till  hot,  then  serve  on  nice 
slices  of  toasted  bread,  and  you  have  a  breakfast  dish  even  better 
than  the  dinner. 

The  water  in  which  calf's  head,  etc.,  is  boiled,  should  be  care- 
fully kept,  and  when  cold  it  will  be  a  stiff  jelly.  Take  off  the 
grease  that  will  harden  on  top,  and  the  jelly  may  be  made  into  a 
fine  mock-turtle  soup.  It  is  still  better  if,  when  boiling  the  head 
and  harslet,  you  add  two  calf's  feet. 

Veal  Pie.  ŌĆö  Take  the  neck  of  veal,  joint  it  as  small  as  you 
can,  and  stew,  adding  j  ust  enough  boiling  water  to  prevent  it  from 
burning.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and,  if  liked,  a  very  little 
onion  cut  up  fine,  and  a  little  parsley  or  summer  savory.  Make 
a  crust  of  two  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  smooth  and  free  from 
lumps,  two  table-spoonfuls  suet  chopped  very  fine,  a  little  salt  ; 
stir  it  together  with  ice-cold  water.  Flour  the  board,  roll  out, 
and  scatter  over  it  thin  shavings  of  hard  butter  right  from  the 
ice  ;  shake  over  some  flour  ;  lap  it  together  and  roll  out  again. 
Then  put  on  more  butter,  using,  in  all,  four  table-spoonfuls, 
not  heaped.  This  done,  sprinkle  again  with  flour,  roll  it  up  and 
put  on  the  ice  till  the  veal  is  done,  which  should  not  cook  over 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.  When  tender,  pick  the  meat  from 
most  of  the  bones,  leaving  a  few  small  ones  to  give  shape  to  the 
pie  ;  roll  the  meat  in  well-beaten  eggs  ;  three  will  suffice  to  wet 
it ;  then  roll  it  in  flour  ;  cover  the  pie-dish  with  part  of  the  paste, 
rolled  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  a  strip  of  crust  to 
place  around  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  lay  the  meat  in  neatly, 
cutting  in  a  few  bits  of  butter,  two  table-spoonfuls  will  do,  and 
pour  over  the  meat  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked,  which 
should  have  boiled  down  so  as  to  leave  only  enough  to  make  the 
pie  juicy.  Now  roll  out  the  rest  of  the  paste  for  the  upper  crust, 
about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  cover  the  pie,  cut  a  slit  in 
the  top,  and  bake.     Be  careful  not  to  scorch  the  crust. 

Sweetbread  Croquettes.  ŌĆö  Trim  the  sweetbreads  neatly  ; 
remove  all  the  gristle  ;  parboil  and  mince  very  fine  ;  add  grated 
bread  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  very  little  mace,  if 
agreeable  ;  moisten  with  cream  ;  stir  all  well  together,  and  shape 


422  CHOICE   FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

them  by  pressing  firmly  into  a  pear-shaped  wineglass  or  small 
mold,  or  mold  into  little  cones  by  rolling  in  your  hands.  Have 
ready  a  beaten  egg  and  fine  rolled  and  sifted  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs.  Dip  each  croquette  into  the  egg  and  roll  in  the  crumbs ; 
stick  a  fruit-stem  into  the  cone,  to  look  like  an  apple  or  pear,  and 
fry  in  butter.    This  is  good  for  cold  chicken,  beef,  or  raw  oysters. 

Veal  Patty.  ŌĆö  Four  pounds  veal-steak,  chopped  while  raw 
very  fine  ;  mix  with  it  eight  butter-crackers  rolled,  a  piece  of 
butter  of  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  all 
thoroughly  together,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  A  little 
sage,  thyme,  or  savory  is  thought  an  improvement  by  some. 
Mold  into  a  loaf ;  put  small  bits  of  butter  on  top,  and  cover 
with  grated  bread  crumbs.  Judge  of  the  quantity  of  butter 
necessary  by  your  own  taste.  If  not  liked  A^ery  rich,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  cut  up  and  sprinkled  over  will  be  plenty. 
Bake  two  hours.  When  cold,  cut  oft'  slices  as  from  a  loaf  of 
bread,  for  tea  or  side-dishes. 

Minced  Veal.  ŌĆö  Mince  the  veal  very  fine  with  a  little  ham,  a 
table-spoonful  of  flour,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  one  small  onion 
scalded  for  five  or  ten  minutes  to  remove  the  coarser  flavor  and 
then  chopped  fine  ;  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste. 
Butter  a  deep  pie-plate,  set  a  small  cup  in  the  center,  and  fill  the 
plate  all  around  the  cup  with  the  mince-meat.  Bake  of  a  delicate 
brown  ;  then  remove  the  cup  and  fill  its  place  with  some  nice 
sauce,  ŌĆö  apple,  cranberry,  or  jelly,  or,  if  you  please,  some  scal- 
loped oysters.  Beef,  lamb,  or  chicken  prepared  in  the  same  way 
is  very  good. 

Veal  Hash.ŌĆö Boil  a  shin  of  veal  which  has  about  three  pounds 
of  meat  on  it  in  as  small  a  quantity  of  water  as  you  can,  so  that 
when  done  there  shall  be  one  quart  of  water  left.  Boil  the  day 
before  needed,  that  it  may  be  perfectly  cold.  When  the  meat  is 
well  done,  lay  it  anywhere  where  it  will  be  away  from  the  air, 
but  do  not  wrap  it  in  a  cloth.  Save  all  the  liquor  in  a  separate 
dish.  The  next  morning  cut  up  all  the  meat ;  chop  not  quite  so  fine 
as  for  the  "  mince."  Half  an  hour  before  you  send  it  to  the  table, 
put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  covered  stewpan  with  the  liquor  ;  have 
ready  half  a  pint  of  hot- drawn  butter  and  eight  hard-boiled  eggs  ; 
remove  the  shells,  mince  all  but  two,  and  add  to  the  meat.     As 


POULTRY   AND   GAME.  423 

soon  as  it  boils  up,  remove  i'roin  the  fire  ;  season  with  salt,  cay- 
enne i)epper,  and  a  little  black  pepper.  Cut  the  two  eggs  in  slices, 
and  when  the  meat  is  placed  in  a  dish,  lay  them  over  the  top 
neatly.     Send  to  table  hot. 

Veal  Loaf.  ŌĆö  Tliree  pounds  of  veal  cutlet,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
salt  pork  chopped  very  fine.  Three  Boston  crackers  rolled  fine,  three 
well-beaten  eggs,  one  wineglass  claret  or  currant  wine,  half  a  cup 
of  tomato  catsup,  five  ripe  tomatoes,  if  in  season,  or  a  tea-cup  of 
canned  tomatoes  ;  one  onion  chopped  fine,  if  not  disagreeable  ;  juice 
and  chopped  peel  of  one  orange  or  lemon,  whichever  is  the  most 
palatable  ;  one  small  teaspoonful  each  of  pepper,  cloves,  sweet-mar- 
joram, sage,  and  salt.  Mix  these  very  thoroughly  with  the  meat, 
and  mold  into  a  loaf.  Place  in  a  dripping-pan,  cover  the  top  with 
cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  three  hours.  While  baking,  keep  some 
butter  and  hot  water  on  the  side  of  range,  and  baste  the  loaf  with  it 
often  and  thoroughly.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  till  the  second 
day  before  cutting.     Excellent  as  a  relish  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

Croquettes.  ŌĆö  These  are  a  sort  of  mince-meat  dumpling.  Take 
some  cold  veal,  chicken,  lobster,  or  tender  cold  beef,  chopped  fine. 
Put  a  half  table-spoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire.  When 
melted,  put  in  a  piece  of  onion  chopped  fine  ;  fry  a  little  ;  add 
half  a  table-spoonful  of  flour.  When  it  browns,  put  in  the  minced 
meat ;  stir  it  steadily  till  heated  through,  adding  salt  and  pepper. 
Then  add  a  gill  and  a  half  of  broth,  and  set  the  pan  a  little  off 
the  fii'e  to  simmer.  Chop  three  stalks  of  parsley  fine,  and  mix  it 
in  on  the  fire,  stirring  all  the  time.  Then  break  in  two  eggs,  stir- 
ring faster  ;  in  two  or  three  minutes  take  it  from  the  fire  and  set 
it  to  cool.  Thus  far  has  occupied  about  ten  minutes.  When  the 
meat  is  cold,  sift  some  flour  on  the  board  ;  take  a  lump  of  the 
mince  the  size  of  an  egg  or  larger,  roll  it  in  the  fine  flour,  dip  it 
in  a  cup  of  beaten  egg,  drain  and  roll  it  in  bread  crumbs  ;  have 
a  quantity  of  boiling  suet  or  drippings  in  a  frying-pan,  and  fry 
the  croquettes  in  them  for  a  couple  of  minutes,  till  brown.  Put 
in  a  colander  and  let  the  fat  drain  off. 

POULTRY   AND   GAME. 

Steamed  Turkey. ŌĆö All  poultry,  after  dressing,  should  remain 
in  cold  water  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour  to  extract  the 


424  CHOICE    B'AMILY    RECKIFTS. 

blood  and  leave  thein  white  ;  then  hang  iu  a  cool  place  for  twenty- 
four  hours,  in  winter  even  longer.  They  will  be  much  sweeter 
and  finer  flavored  for  it. 

When  ready  to  cook  a  turkey,  see  thaf  every  pinfeather  is  taken 
out,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry  with  a  cloth  used  for  noth- 
ing but  such  piu'poses  ;  rub  inside  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill 
with  oysters  carefully  washed  in  their  own  lic^uor  to  remove  bits 
of  shells  ;  sew  up  the  turkey,  place  in  a  large  dish,  and  set  it  into 
a  steamer  over  boiling  water,  or  in  a  "  Rumford  Boiler  "  ;  lay  a 
clean  cloth  over  the  steamer  and  shut  the  cover  on  tight,  and 
steam  till  tender,  ŌĆö  two  and  a  half  hours,  or,  if  large,  three  hours  ; 
rim  a  fork  into  the  breast  to  see  if  done.  If  it  seems  tender,  and 
no  reddish  juice  flows  out,  it  is  ready  to  take  up  ;  strain  the 
gravy  and  put  into  the  oyster-sauce,  which  should  be  ready  while 
the  turkey  is  cooking,  made  like  stewed  oysters  and  thickened 
with  farina  or  butter  and  flour  ;  let  it  just  boil  up,  and  add,  if 
you  like  it  white,  a  little  boiled  cream  ;  pour  this  over  the  steamed 
turkey,  and  serve  hot. 

Or,  if  preferred,  the  turkey  may  be  stuff'ed  as  for  a  common 
baked  turkey  and  steamed  ;  or  it  may  be  stuffed  with  good  plump 
chestnuts  after  the  skins  are  removed,  and  the  gra\y  made  with 
the  giblets  chopped  fine,  adding  a  little  flour  as  you  chop,  and  the 
gravy  from  the  disli  stirred  to  it,  and  set  over  the  fire  to  boil  up. 
While  the  gravy  is  being  made,  rub  a  little  butter  over  and 
sprinkle  the  turkey  with  flour  very  slightly,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven 
to  brown  delicately.  Many  prefer  this  to  sending  to  the  table 
right  from  the  steamer  with  white  gravy  poiu-ed  on. 

Broiled  Chickens.  ŌĆö  First  boil  the  giblets,  neck,  and  tips  of 
the  wings  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  ;  season  with  a  lit- 
tle pepper  and  salt.  Wben  tender,  pick  off  what  little  meat  there 
is  on  the  neck  and  wing-tips,  and  chop  with  the  giblets,  very  fine, 
shaking  over  them,  while  chopping,  enough  flour  to  make  the 
w^hole  like  a  paste  ;  then  return  it  to  the  water  it  was  boiled  iu, 
stirring  all  together,  and  leave  it  on  the  range  to  keep  hot.  This 
done,  put  the  chicken  on  a  well-heated  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire, 
covering  it  closely  with  a  cover  made  to  fit  the  gridiron.  Cook 
carefully,  turning  it  often,  and  do  not  let  it  scorch.  When  done, 
it  should  be  of  a  good,  rich,  clear  brown,  as  uniform  in  color  as 


rOULTRY  AND  GAME.  425 

possible.  When  partly  cooked,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  it 
on  both  sides. 

Put  three  gi-eat  spoonfuls  of  butter  on  the  platter  you  have 
ready  to  take  the  chickens  up  in  ;  set  it  into  the  oven,  leaving  the 
door  open  lest  you  break  the  platter  by  too  strong  heat.  When 
the  chicken  is  well  cooked,  remove  from  the  gridiron  to  this  plat- 
ter, turning  it  over  several  times  in  the  melted  butter  ;  then  pour 
over  all  the  water  in  which  the  giblets  have  been  put,  which 
should  have  become  a  nice  thick  gravy  ;  let  the  platter  stand  a 
i'c'w  moments  in  the  oven  until  all  is  thoroughly  blended  and 
heated,  then  send  to  the  table  hot. 

If  not  in  a  hurry,  it  is  well  to  melt  butter  in  a  deep  kitchen- 
dish  and  put  the  chicken  and  gravy  into  the  oven  in  that,  and, 
when  thoroughly  heated  through,  remove  to  a  hot  china  platter 
for  the  table.  There  is  a  risk  of  cracking  the  enamel  on  nice  china 
or  breaking  the  platter  entirely,  ii"  set  in  the  oven  where  a  servant 
may  forget  and  close  the  door. 

To  Bake  a  Chicken.  ŌĆö  Choose  full-grown,  plump,  well-fat- 
tened chickens  ;  remove  all  the  pinfeathers  carefully  and  singe  all 
the  hairs  off  by  holding  a  lighted  paper  under  the  chicken  before 
opening  ;  then  open  with  care  ;  see  that  the  gall  is  not  broken  in 
taking  out  the  entrails  and  giblets,  and  that  none  of  the  crop  or 
windpipe  is  left  in  ;  then  wash  in  plenty  of  cold  water ;  put  inside 
the  gizzard,  liver,  and  heart,  when  well  cleaned  and  washed,  and 
hang  up  to  drain  all  night.  If  very  warm  weather,  put  in  a  piece 
of  charcoal  to  keep  it  sweet.  When  ready  the  next  morning  to 
prepare  for  baking,  cut  off  the  neck  and  legs,  and  lay  aside  with 
the  giblets  for  gravy  ;  prepare  a  dressing,  or  stuffing,  of  dried 
bread  rolled  fine,  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  sage,  and  summer  sa- 
Aory, ŌĆö the  quantity  of  seasoning  must  be  determined  by  the  taste 
of  the  fiimily  ;  rub  salt  and  pepper  inside,  fill  with  the  dressing, 
putting  enough  into  the  neck  or  crop  to  give  it  a  plump  look  ; 
sew  up  and  skewer.  There  should  be  a  grate  fitted  to  every  meat- 
pan  on  which  to  lay  meat  or  fowls,  to  keep  them  from  Ijecoming 
clammy  by  resting  in  the  Avater  ;  rub  your  fowls  Avith  a  little 
butter  and  salt,  place  on  this  grate,  pour  boiling  water  into  the 
pan,  and  put  into  the  OA'en  ;  let  it  cook  about  fifteen  minutes,  then 
baste  Avith  a  little  butter  and  salted  Avater,  kept  in  a  boAvl  close  by  ; 


42G  CHOICE   FAMILY   UECEIPTS. 

dredge  over  some  flour,  and  baste  again  ;  repeat  the  basting  three 
or  foiu"  times  while  the  chickens  are  baking  ;  turn  them  over 
every  time  ;  cook  till  a  fork  Ō¢Āwill  enter  the  flesh  easily,  but  tak- 
ing care  not  to  dry  up  the  meat ;  then  remove  the  skewers  and 
thread  with  which  they  were  sewed,  put  them  on  the  platter  and 
place  in  the  heater,  or  where  they  \vill  keep  hot  till  the  gravy  is 
ready. 

Gravy  for  Roast  or  Baked  Poultry.  ŌĆö  Put  the  giblets  and 
neck  into  a  small  saucepan,  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
then  cover  them  A\T.th  boiling  water  and  set  on  the  back  part  of 
stove  or  range  to  cook  slowly,  as  soon  as  you  have  put  the  poul- 
try into  the  oven  ;  dip  the  feet  and  legs  into  boiling  water  long 
enough  to  scald  off  all  the  leathery  skin,  and  put  them  into  the 
saucepan  to  boil  with,  the  giblets  and  neck.  The  feet  and  lower 
part  of  the  leg,  usually  thrown  away,  contain  a  good  deal  of  jelly, 
which  gives  a  very  desirable  richness  and  body  to  the  gravy,  and 
when  boiled  tender  many  think  them  a  great  delicacy  to  be  served 
Avhole.  "When  the  giblets  are  boiled  tender,  chop  very  fine,  and 
while  chopping  dredge  over  flour  till  you  have  made  them  Uke  a 
paste,  then  put  l)ack  into  the  water  they  were  boiled  in  to  sim- 
mer till  the  chickens  are  done,  stirring  occasionally  that  the 
chopped  giblets  may  not  stick  to  the  saucepan.  After  the  fowls 
are  taken  up,  set  the  meat-pan  on  the  stove  and  shake  some 
flour  into  the  liquor  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  By  the  time  the 
poultry  is  cooked  this  should  have  been  done  to  a  brown  gravy. 
After  you  have  put  in  tlie  flour,  do  not  stir  it  until  the  liquor  has 
boiled  up  over  it,  then  rub  it  quite  smooth,  and  little  by  little 
pour  in  the  water  in  which  the  chopped  giblets  are  ;  stir  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens,  and  if  properly  managed  you  wUl  have 
a  smooth  brown  gray^i-  of  fine  flavor. 

Chicken  Pot-Pie.  ŌĆö  Cut  up  a  chicken,  or  two  if  a  large  pie 
be  required  ;  lay  the  pieces  neatly  into  the  pot,  and  sprinkle  over 
salt  and  jjepper  to  yovir  taste  ;  rub  one  table-spoonful  and  a  half 
of  flour  and  tM^o  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  (even  full)  together,  and 
spread  this  paste  over  the  chicken  ;  then  cover  the  whole  with 
good  new  milk,  or,  better  still,  with  cream,  if  you  have  it.  Set 
the  pot,  covered  closely  with  a  tight-fitting  cover,  where  it  will 
not  cook  or  boil  rapidlj^,  but  stew  or  simmer,  for  three  quarters 


POULTRY   AND  GAME.  427 

of  an  hour.  While  tbis  is  stewing,  make  a  crust  of  prepared  flour, 
or,  if  you  have  none,  with  soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  just  as  you 
would  for  light,  tender  biscuit  ;  roll  this  out  quite  thick,  and 
cover  over  the  meat.  If  there  be  not  enough  gravy,  add  a  little 
more  milk  boiling  hot,  or  boiling  water  if  milk  be  not  plenty. 
Cut  a  slit  in  the  top  of  the  crust  to  let  the  steam  escape.  Boil 
half  an  hour  after  the  crust  is  jiut  on,  bringing  the  pot  over  a  hot- 
ter fire,  that  it  may  boil,  not  simmer.  In  taking  it  out,  pass  a 
knife  around  the  sides  of  the  pot  to  loosen  the  crust  ;  then  slip 
a  long-handled  skimmer,  as  nearly  flat  as  you  have,  or  a  batter- 
cake  turner,  carefully  under,  and  try  to  lift  it  out  so  as  to  break 
the  crust  as  little  as  possible  ;  but  it  will,  if  properly  made  and 
cooked,  be  so  light  that  it  will  probably  break  a  Little.  When 
lifted  out,  lay  it  on  a  dish  and  take  out  the  chicken  and  gravy  ; 
then  lay  the  crust  together  over  it,  and  serve  hot.  Lean  fresh 
pork  or  veal  is  very  nice  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

Fried  Chickens.  ŌĆö  Cut  up  the  chickens  neatly  ;  lay  them  in  a 
large  panful  of  cold  water  half  an  hour  to  extract  the  blood.  Then 
drain  and  put  into  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them  ;  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt ;  parboil  for  twenty  minutes.  Fry  crisp 
and  brown  some  thin  slices  of  salt  pork.  AVhen  the  chicken  is 
sufiiciently  parboiled,  drain  it  from  the  water  and  lay  each  piece 
into  the  hot  pork-fat.  Dust  over  some  flour,  and  fry  the  chicken 
a  clear  brown,  turning  each  piece  when  sufliciently  browni.  When 
done  on  both  sides,  lay  each  piece  on  the  platter  neatly,  and  set 
where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  dry.  When  each  piece  is  done  and 
laid  on  the  platter,  shake  from  the  dredge-box  into  the  hot  fat 
enough  flour  to  absorb  the  fat.  Do  not  stir  it  till  all  the  flour  is 
saturated  ;  then  with  a  spoon  stir  smooth  and  ponr  in,  little  by 
little,  enough  of  the  water  in  which  the  chicken  was  parboiled 
ŌĆö  which  should  be  kept  boiling  ŌĆö  to  make  what  gravy  you  need, 
stirring  it  all  the  time.  When  thickened  and  free  from  lumps, 
ponr  on  the  chicken,  and  serve  hot. 

To  Cook  an  Old  Fovyl.  ŌĆö  Dress  and  stufi^  as  for  roasting  ; 
then  boil  three  hours  in  a  covered  pot,  with  one  quart  of  water, 
to  which  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar  ;  then  take  it  from 
the  water,  rub  over  with  a  little  butter,  sprinkle  over  some  flour, 
and  put  the  fowl  into  a  bake-pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  one 


428  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

liour.  Use  the  li<iuor  in  the  pot  for  gravy  and  to  baste  with. 
The  vinegar  makes  it  very  tender,  but  does  not  taste  at  all. 

Roast  Duck.  ŌĆö  Select  those  that  are  fat  and  tender.  Remove 
every  pinfeather,  and  singe  off  all  the  hairs  ;  stuff  with  bread 
chopped  fine,  seasoned  with  a  little  sage,  summer  savory,  salt,  and 
pepper  ;  or,  if  agreeable,  add  two  onions  chopped  fine,  but  unless 
sure  that  all  who  are  to  eat  can  use  onions  without  injury,  it  is 
better  not  to  risk  them.  Remove  the  two  oil-sacks  from  the  back, 
or  the  oilwill  impart  a  strong,  disagreeable  flavor.  Roast  care- 
fully till  of  a  nice  brown,  basting  thoroughly.  One  hour  is  quite 
long  enough,  as,  if  too  much  cooked,  a  duck  becomes  very  dry 
and  tasteless.  Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  put  in  the 
giblets,  which  should  have  been  cooked  and  chopped  fine  before 
the  ducks  were  done.  When  chopping  them,  dust  in  flour,  so  as 
to  make  a  paste  ;  then  stir  it  into  the  gravy  ;  stir  till  all  lumps 
have  been  broken  and  smoothed  ;  let  it  cook  a  few  minutes,  then 
pour  in  part  of  the  water  in  which  the  giblets  were  boiled  ;  cook 
till  it  is  thick  and  entirely  free  from  lumps,  then  serve. 

We  have  been  told  that  a  very  excellent  French  cook  opens  and 
draivs  his  poultry,  but  does  not  pluck  them  till  they  have  hung  a 
few  days,  ŌĆö  long  enough  for  the  substance  in  the  end  of  the  quill 
to  absorb,  ŌĆö and  thus  they  can  be  plucked  clean  leavirig  no  pin- 
feathers.  He  then  picks  and  stufts  them,  and  lets  them  hang  a 
day  or  two  longer,  until  the  whole  fowl  is  flavored  with  the  dress- 
ing. We  are  assured  poultry  so  prepared  is  very  delicate  and  finely 
flavored.  We  will  not  vouch  for  this  ;  but  in  part  it  somids  rea- 
sonable, and  is  well  worth  trying,  only  we  think  the  feathers  must 
impart  a  strong,  oily  flavor  if  left  in  so  long. 

To  Roast  a  Goose.  ŌĆö  Select  a  goose  with  clean,  white  skin, 
plump  breast,  and  yelloto  feet.  If  the  feet  are  red,  the  bird  is 
old.  Let  it  hang  for  a  few  days,  if  the  weather  will  permit,  as 
by  so  doing  the  flavor  is  gi'eatly  improved.  In  dressing,  take 
great  care  in  plucking,  singeing,  and  drawing  the  goose,  for  if  the 
oil-sack  is  broken  over  it,  or  the  gall  bladder  broken  inside,  it 
will  be  more  noticeable  and  less  easy  to  remove  in  a  goose  than 
any  other  poultry.  Cut  off  the  neck  close  to  the  back,  leaving 
the  skin  long  enough  to  tie  over.  This  can  be  done  by  drawing 
back  the  skin,  while  you  sever  the  neck  from  the  body.     Cut  off 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  429 

the  feut  at  the  first  joint,  and  separate  the  pinions  at  the  first  joint 
also  ;  beat  the  breastbone  flat  with  potato-masher  or  rolling-pin. 
Put  a  skewer  through  the  under  part  of  each  wing  ;  draw  up  the 
legs  closely  and  run  a  skewer  into  the  middle  of  each,  passing  it 
([uite  tlu'ough  the  body.  Put  another  skewer  into  the  small  part 
of  the  leg,  bring  it  close  down  to  tlie  side-bone,  run  it  through, 
and  proceed  the  same  way  with  the  other  side.  Cut  ofi"  the  vent, 
make  a  hole  in  the  skin  large  enough  to  draw  the  rump  througli, 
so  as  to  keep  in  the  seasoning.  Make  a  dressing  of  mealy  pota- 
toes, finely  mashed,  two  boiled  oni(jns  chopped  very  fine,  one  and 
a  half  teas])oonfuls  of  powdered  sage,  one  of  salt,  and  one  of  black 
pepper.  Fill  the  body  of  the  goose,  and  secure  it  firmly  by  tying 
the  skin  over  the  neck,  and  drawing  the  rump  through  the  hole 
cut  in  the  skin.  Roast  for  two  hours,  if  large,  or  bake  the  same 
length  of  time  ;  but  roasting  is  much  nicer.  Baste  often,  dredg- 
ing a  little  flour  over.  Do  not  baste  in  the  drippings  from  the 
goose  ;  they  are  too  strong  ;  but  prepare  some  basting  by  putting 
a  little  browned  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  into  part  of  a  cup  of 
boiling  water.  When  half  done,  drain  the  fat  from  the  roaster ; 
the  last  drijjpings  will  not  be  so  strong,  and,  with  the  basting-water, 
will  suffice  for  the  gravy.  Make  a  good  gravy,  in  which  the 
giblets  finely  chopped,  and  a  little  flour  for  thickening,  have 
been  boiled.  Put  the  gravy  into  a  tureen,  and  serve  the  goose 
with  a  dish  of  nice  apple  or  gooseberry  sauce. 

Wild  Goose.  ŌĆö  A  wild  goose  should  be  cooked  rare.  One 
hour's  roasting  is  quite  sufficient.  A  cup  of  currant  jelly  and  a 
glass  of  red  wine  should  be  added  to  the  graA^y,  which  is  made  the 
same  as  for  a  common  goose.     Serve  hot. 

To  Roast  a  Green  Goose.  ŌĆö  Geese  are  called  green  till  four 
months  old.  Dress  and  truss  the  same  as  a  full-grown  goose,  but 
do  not  stuft'  the  bird.  Put  into  the  body  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
little  butter  to  moisten  it.  Roast  for  an  hour  ;  serve  Avith  gra^'y 
made  like  the  first,  and  tomato  or  sorrel  sauce. 

To  Boil  a  Goose.  ŌĆö  Clean  throughly,  and  soak  for  twelve 
hours  in  warm  milk  and  water.  Then  dry,  and  stuff  with  sage 
and  onions,  as  for  roasting.  Put  it  into  cold  water  over  the  fire, 
and  bring  to  a  boil,  then  let  it  siminer  gently  for  an  hour  and  a 
c[U.arter.  Serve  with  onion  sauce  poured  over  it,  and  stewed  cab- 
bage around  it. 


430  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

A  teaspoonful  of  made  naustard,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  few 
grains  of  cayenne,  mixed  with  a  glass  of  port  wine,  are  some- 
times poured  into  the  goose,  through  a  slit  made  in  the  apron  when 
about  half  done,  and  by  many  persons  considered  a  great  delicacy. 

Onions  may  be  omitted,  if  injurious  to  any  who  are  to  par- 
take of  it.  They  make  many  persons  quite  ill,  and  it  is  a  kind- 
ness to  avoid  using  any  seasoning  that  will  disturb  your  guests. 
Whatever  way  a  goose  is  to  be  cooked,  it  is  well  to  soak  it  over 
night  in  milk  poured  over  it  boiling  hot.  In  the  morning  wash 
off  the  milk  and  put  the  goose  into  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  set  it 
over  the  frre,  and  let  it  remain  till  almost  boiling  hot,  not  CLuite. 
This  removes  the  strong  taste  of  the  oil,  and  you  can  then  take  it 
out,  dry  with  a  towel,  and  when  cool  stuff  and  cook  as  you  wish, 
ŌĆö  either  boiled,  baked,  or  roasted. 

To  SteTv  a  Goose.  ŌĆö  Truss  the  goose  as  for  boiling  ;  cover 
with  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  tie  it  up.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the 
sauce')  .n  also  with  bacon,  sprinkle  in  a  very  little  of  sweet  herbs 
powdered,  a  carrot  cut  in  dice,  and  two  bay  leaves,  if  you  can  get 
them.  Lay  in  the  goose  and  giblets,  cover  with  bacon,  moisten 
with  rich  stock  enough  to  cover  the  goose  ;  set  over  the  fire  and 
let  it  boil  up  ;  then  cover  with  buttered  paper  and  a  close-fitting 
cover  ;  set  it  on  a  hot  hearth  with  fire  over  it.  Let  it  cook  an 
hour  and  a  half.     Serve  with  onion  or  apple-sauce. 

Both  geese  and  ducks  if  old,  and  we  think  turkeys  and  chick- 
ens also,  are  better  for  being  parboiled  before  roasting.  Put  in 
just  enough  water  to  boil  them  ;  keep  the  vessel  close  covered. 
Let  a  tough  goose  gently  simmer  two  hours  ;  then  dry,  wipe 
clean,  stuff,  and  roast  ;  basting  with  a  little  bacon  fat  or  butter. 

To  Stevr  Pigeons. ŌĆö Phick  and  clean  the  birds  with  great  care. 
When  drawn,  leave  them  for  about  an  hour  to  soak  in  cold  water. 
This  extracts  the  blood,  leaving  them  white  and  sweet.  This 
done,  take  them  out,  and  tying  the  legs  together,  hang  the  birds 
up  to  drain.  When  dry,  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish  and  place  on 
the  ice  or  a  cool  place  overnight. 

The  next  morning  prepare  the  stuffing  of  stale  bread  chopped 
very  fine,  and  to  it,  for  twelve  pigeons,  put  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Ijutter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  black  pepper  ; 
a  little  sage,  thyme,  summer  savory,  or  sweet-marjoram  (only  a 


POULTKY   AND  GAME.  ^31 

very  little,  ŌĆö  the  exact  quantity  cannot  well  be  given  more  ex- 
plicitly, ŌĆö  too  much  will  spoil  it ;  better  err  by  using  too  little, 
and  profit  by  the  experience  the  next  time).  Eub  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  outside  and  inside  of  each  bird,  then  fill  with  the  stuffing 
and  sew  them  up,  passing  the  thread  through  the  legs  and  wings 
to  make  them  lie  close  to  the  body  ;  then  rub  a  little  butter  over 
the  Ijirds,  dredge  with  fl(jur,  put  them  into  a  bake-pan  and  place 
in  a  quick  oven  to  brown.  While  this  is  being  dcme,  chop  a  little 
liesh  parsley,  making,  when  fine,  half  a  table-spoonful,  and  put  it 
to  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  and  the  same  of  flour  ;  beat  all 
together  till  smooth.  Brown  the  birds  on  both  sides  ;  twenty 
minutes  should  do  it,  if  your  oven  is  of  the  right  heat.  Lay  a 
small  saucer  or  plate  on  the  bottom  of  a  close-covered  iron  stew- 
kettle  or  into  a  soup  digester,  and  put  the  birds  Avhen  browned 
into  the  kettle,  packing  them  compactly  as  you  can  ;  spread  over 
them  the  smoothly  beaten  flour,  butter,  and  parsley,  and  pour  in 
enough  rich  milk  to  cover  the  pigeons  (cream  is  better,  but  that 
is  a  luxury  belonging  to  the  country  chiefly).  Set  them  on  the 
stove  or  range  where  they  will  steadily  simmer  four  hours.  They 
must  not  boil  hard  ;  occasionally  stir  them  from  the  bottom  with 
a  spoon,  to  prevent  them  from  sticking,  but  do  not  break  them. 
When  done,  take  up  and  place  them  neatly  on  a  large,  deep  platter, 
pour  the  gravy  over  the  birds,  trim  the  edges  of  the  platter  with 
a  neat  fringe  of  green  parsley,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Wild  Squabs.  ŌĆö  After  dressing  the  birds,  let  them  soak  in  cold 
water  a  half-hour  to  extract  the  blood,  then  drain  off"  the  water, 
wipe  dry  on  a  clean  meat-cloth,  and  set  on  the  ice  till  needed. 
(They  are  better  to  be  dressed  one  day  and  cooked  the  next.)  Let 
the  gridiron  be  liright  and  clean  ;  set  it  over  the  fire  till  hot,  then 
lay  the  birds  on,  being  careful  that  the  fire  is  not  so  hot  as  to  scorch. 
Turn  them  over  every  minute  or  two  ;  when  half  done  sprinkle 
salt  and  pepper  over  them  and  finish.  Have  a  thin  slice  of  bread 
toasted  and  spread  with  butter  to  lay  under  each  bird  ;  place  the 
birds  on  the  bread,  put  butter  on  each  and  set  in  the  oven  a  mo- 
ment, and  send  to  the  table  hot.  It  is  well  to  have  the  bread 
toasted,  buttered,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  keep  hot  before  the  birds 
are  put  over  the  fire. 

Chicken  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Joint  a  pair  of  small,  tender  chickens  ; 


4:32  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  just  cover  witli  water,  and  stew 
with  three  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  that  has  been  well  washed  in 
hot  water.  When  tender,  take  from  the  litj^uor  and  set  to  cool. 
Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  of  flour,  one  quart  of  milk,  six  eggs, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  or,  if  prepared  flour,  no  salt  is  needed. 
When  the  meat  is  cold,  cover  the  bottom  of  a  large  bake-dish 
with  batter,  then  a  layer  of  chicken,  then  another  of  batter,  and 
so  on  till  all  is  used,  finishing  ofi'  with  batter.  Bake  to  a 
liglit  brown.  Beat  an  egg  and  stir  into  the  liquor  that  was  set 
aside,  and  serve  it  hot  with  the  pudding. 

Chicken  Jelly.  ŌĆö  Cut  up  an  old  hen  into  quite  small  pieces  ; 
skin  it,  and  pour  over  three  pints  of  cold  water  ;  boil  until  the 
bones  slip  from  the  meat  easdy.  Then  take  out  all  the  meat ; 
throw  back  the  bones  to  boil  in  the  liquor  longer  ;  chop  the  meat 
with  the  rind  of  one  lemon,  having  squeezed  the  juice  into  the 
boiling  liquor  ;  put  the  meat,  well  seasoned,  into  a  jelly-mold, 
and  when  the  liquor  is  boiled  down  full  one  half  strain  it  upon 
the  meat  in  the  mold  ;  next  morning  turn  it  out  of  the  mold  and 
cut  in  slices.  Do  not  throw  away  the  feet  of  poultry,  but  pour 
boiling  water  over  them  to  take  off  the  skin,  and  then  put  the 
feet  into  the  liquor  to  boil.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  mucilage  in 
their  feet,  and  it  is  excellent  both  for  this  jelly  and  for  enriching 
the  gravy  for  poultry. 

Chicken  Patties.  ŌĆö  Chop  very  fine  all  the  dry,  poorest  bits 
left  from  baked  chicken  ;  season  carefully  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  little  celery,  cut  in  small  bits  ;  make  a  light  puff  paste,  roll  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  neatly  shaped  paste-cutter  ; 
lay  a  narrow  strip  of  the  paste  all  round,  then  put  some  of  the 
mince  on  the  paste  ;  cut  another  piece  of  the  same  size  and  lay 
over.     Bake  fifteen  minutes.    This  makes  a  neat  dish  and  is  good. 

To  make  Remnants  of  Meat,  Chicken,  etc.,  palatable. ŌĆö 
When  a  boiled  ham  is  nearly  used  up,  there  is  consideralile  lean 
meat  about  the  small  part  of  the  ham  which  may  waste  because 
no  way  can  be  contrived  to  use  it.  If  you  will  grate  all  the 
hard  dried  bits,  or,  if  too  small  to  grate,  pound  them  in  a  marble 
mortar  to  a  paste,  and  pack  it  close  in  a  stone  pot,  you  ^vill  find 
it  excellent  for  seasoning  hashes,  patties,  or  to  sprinkle  over 
dropped  eggs  laid  on  buttered  toast. 


PORK  AND   HAM,  433 

Meat  Croquettes.  ŌĆö  Mince  cold  chicken  very  fine  ;  moisten 
with  rich  gravy  ;  season  with  pei:>per  and  salt.  Shaj^e  them  by 
pressing  tightly  into  a  jelly-glas.s  or  long,  pear-shaped  wine- 
glass ;  brush  over  with  beaten  egg  alter  they  are  shaped,  roll  in 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  lard.  Drain,  and  send  to  taljle  hot.  Or, 
beat  together  one  pint  of  cream  and  one  pint  of  minced  chicken, 
three  even  table-spoonsfuls  of  butter,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry 
in  lard. 

PORK   AND   HAM. 

To  Boil  a  Ham.  ŌĆö  Boil  it  three  or  four  hours,  according  to 
the  size  ;  then  take  up,  skin  the  ham  ready  for  the  table,  stick 
over  it  a  dozen  cloves,  rub  over  half  a  small  cupful  of  sugar, 
sprinkle  thoroughly  with  pounded  rusk  or  cracker  crumbs,  and 
set  into  a  well-heated  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

Broiled  Ham.  ŌĆö  Cut  thin  slices  from  the  middle  of  the  ham, 
as  trae  and  uniform  as  possible,  having  the  knife  very  sharp. 
But  if  by  cai"elessness  some  parts  are  thicker  than  others,  roll 
the  thick  part  out,  stoutly,  with  a  rolling-pin.  Soak  an  hour  or 
two  in  warm  water,  unless  the  ham  is  quite  fresh.  Have  the 
gridiron  perfectly  free  from  roughness,  and  well  heated  ;  then 
broil  over  a  brisk  fire,  turning  constantly  that  no  part  may  be 
black.  If  cut  thin  enough,  it  wdll  take  but  a  few  minutes  to 
broil  it.  "When  done,  butter  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.  For 
breakfast,  an  omelet,  or  eggs  cooked  in  some  acceptable  way, 
should  always  go  with  ham. 

Ham  Croquettes.  ŌĆö  Bits  of  boiled  ham,  too  much  broken  to 
slice  neatly  for  the  table,  may  be  made  into  a  very  desirable 
breakfast  dish. 

To  two  cups  finely  chopped  boiled  ham,  put  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  flour,  six  eggs  if  plenty,  ŌĆö  four  will  answer,  ŌĆö  yelks  and 
whites  beaten  separately.  Stir  all  together,  and  make  into  balls, 
or  shape  in  a  wineglass.  When  in  shape,  roll  them  in  bread 
crumbs,  cracker  dust,  or  flour  ;  dip  them  into  a  little  beaten  egg, 
and  fry  in  butter  to  a  clear  golden  brown. 

Ham  and  Toast.  ŌĆö  Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  wet  a  table-spoonful 

of  flour  ^vith  cold  milk,  and  stir  up  smooth.     When   the  milk 

comes  to  a  boil,  pour  in  the  flour,  stir  carefully  till  it  thickens 

smoothly,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  and  a  little  black  pepper. 

19  BB 


434  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

Shave  some  good  ham  very  thin,  pour  over  it  Ijoiling  water,  and 
let  it  scakl  a  minute,  pour  it  off,  add  a  little  more,  let  it  boil  up 
once,  then  put  it  into  the  thickened  milk,  leaving  it  there  while 
you  toast  carefully  a  lew  evenly  cut  slices  of  bread.  Lay  them 
into  a  deep  dish,  skim  out  the  ham  from  the  milk  and  lay  neatly 
on  the  toast,  and  then  pour  over  all  the  thickened  milk.  You 
can  beat  an  egg  and  put  to  the  milk  if  you  like.  It  makes  it 
richer,  but  is  not  necessary. 

This  is  a  very  nice  breakfast  relish.  We  think  it  preferable  to 
dried  beef. 

Ham  Toast.  ŌĆö  Soften  slightly  in  a  stewpan  a  small  piece  of 
butter  ;  put  in  as  much  finely  minced  ham  as  will  cover  a  large 
round  of  buttered  toast,  and  add  gravy  enough  to  make  it  moist. 
When  quite  hot  stir  in  qiiickly  with  a  fork  one  egg.  Place  the 
mixture  over  the  toast,  w^hich  cut  in  pieces  of  any  shape  you  may 
fiancy. 

To  use  Cold  Boiled  Ham.  ŌĆö  When  a  ham  has  been  long 
boiled  and  is  becoming  dry,  cut  some  thin  slices,  dip  in  egg 
and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  quickly.     Serve  immediately. 

Another  "Way.  ŌĆö  Cut  off  all  fat  ;  mince  the  ham  very  fine  ; 
break  into  a  spider  a  half-dozen  fresh  eggs  ;  add  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  cream,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  set  over  the  fire  ;  as 
soon  as  the  eggs  are  set  or  nearly  solid,  spread  one  half  thickly 
with  the  minced  ham,  and  fold  the  other  half  over  upon  it  ;  slip 
it  carefully  from  the  spider  to  the  platter.  Garnish  with  curled 
parsley.     Serve  hot. 

Ham  Ball.  ŌĆö  Chop  fine  such  small  pieces  of  boiled  ham  as 
are  usually  thought  too  poor  or  small  for  use  ;  add  as  many 
eggs  as  there  will  be  people  at  the  table  ;  sprinkle  in  a  little 
flour  ;  beat  together  with  chopped  ham,  and  make  into  balls. 
Fry  in  hot  butter  or  well-clarified  drippings  to  a  golden  brown. 

Ho-w  a  Pig  was  roasted  on  a  Sugar  Plantation.  ŌĆö  The 
pig,  having  been  carefully  cleaned  and  dressed,  was  wiped  dry, 
part  of  the  liver  and  heart  chopped  fine,  mixed  -with  bread  crumbs, 
savory  herbs,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  sewed  up.  While  this  was 
being  prepared  a  fire  was  built  outdoors,  and  when  burned  down 
so  as  to  secm^e  a  bright,  large  bed  of  coals,  a  long,  smooth  stick 
was  run  through  the  pig  lengthwise,  and  smaller  ones  skewered 


Ō¢Ā"  POKK   AND   HAM.  435 

the  legs  to  the  body.  A  piece  of  nice  fat  pork  was  fastened  on 
the  stick  where  it  entered  the  head.  Thus  firmly  fixed,  one  of 
the  servants  held  the  long  stick  with  the  pig  on  it  over  the  fire, 
slowly  turning  it  round  and  round  as  it  began  to  cook  ;  or,  if  lie 
was  needed  elsewhere,  one  end  of  the  stick  was  driven  into  the 
ground,  close  to  the  coals,  but  only  for  a  few  minutes,  when  he 
returned  to  continue  to  turn  it  round  over  the  huge  bed  of  coals. 
In  much  less  time  than  we  need  to  cook  a  pig  in  our  convenient 
kitchens,  the  dweller  under  the  cocoanut-trees  was  beautifully 
browned,  crisp,  and  tender.  In  cooking,  much  of  the  fat  from  the 
pork  filtered  through,  and  having  given  juice  and  relish  to  the 
meat,  had,  with  a  good  deal  of  fat  from  the  pig,  fallen  into  the 
ashes  around  the  bed  of  coals,  leaving  the  meat  rich  and  of  pe- 
culiar sweetness  and  delicacy,  without  being  too  greasy. 

We  had  not  the  good  fortune  to  partake  of  it,  but  this,  with 
others  cooked  in  a  similar  manner,  was  pronounced  the  most  de- 
licious meat  ever  tasted,  and  we  found  no  difficulty  in  believing 
it.  Some  of  our  Northern  cooks,  with  any  amount  of  "  modern 
improvements,"  might  try  this  experiment  with  great  success. 

Wild  game,  birds,  rabbits,  ducks,  etc.,  are  often  cooked  in  a 
similar  manner.  All  wild  birds  are  apt  to  be  very  dry,  and  if  a 
thin  piece  of  pork  is  tied  about  them,  while  baking  or  roasting, 
till  it  becomes  broAvn  and  crisp,  then  removed,  and  the  bird 
allowed  to  brown  delicately,  it  is  a  wonderful  addition  to  the 
juiciness  and  flavor  of  the  game. 

Good  Sausage  Meat.  ŌĆö  Take  two  thirds  ham  and  one  third 
fat  pork,  season  well  with  nine  teaspoonfuls  of  pepper,  the  same 
of  salt,  three  of  powdered  sage,  and  one  of  thyme  or  summer 
savory  to  every  five  pounds  of  meat  (not  heaping  teaspoonfuls, 
remember)  ;  warm  the  meat  enough  so  that  you  can  mix  it  well 
with  the  hands  ;  then  pack  in  jars.  When  needed,  make  up  in 
small  cakes  and  fry  in  a  little  butter,  or  simply  alone.  But  they 
must  not  be  covered  over,  or  they  will  fall  to  pieces.  Some  like 
a  little  cinnamon  added.     Keep  where  it  is  cool,  but  not  damp. 

A  Dutch  Dish.  ŌĆö  Pare  and  slice  as  many  potatoes  as  are 
needed  for  the  size  of  your  family  ;  put  them  into  a  deep  dish  ; 
pour  in  as  much  milk  or  cream  as  will  fill  the  dish  and  not  boil 
over.    Stir  in  a  little  salt  and  pepper  ;  lay  some  slices  of  salt  pork 


436  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

cut  thin  over  the  top  ;  and  bake  two  hours.     Be  careful  and  not 
put  in  too  much  salt,  as  the  pork  will  season  it  almost  enough. 

SALADS   AND   OMELETS. 

Chicken  Salad.  ŌĆö  Well-fattened  chickens,  of  medium  size, 
tender  and  delicate,  make  better  salad  than  large,  overgrown  ones. 
Put  them  on  to  cook  in  the  morning,  and  save  the  water  they  are 
boiled  in  for  soup.  "When  cold,  remove  the  skin  and  cut  the  flesh 
in  pieces,  the  size  you  prefer.  Some  like  the  meat  very  coarse, 
others  choose  it  quite  fine.  This  is  entirely  a  matter  of  taste. 
When  cut  up,  throw  over  the  dish  a  towel  slightly  damped  in  cold 
water,  to  keep  the  meat  from  drying.  Take  the  best  celery  you 
can  get,  and  cut  it  of  the  size  you  wish.  The  "  fancy  cooks  "  cut 
both  celery  and  chicken  in  bits  about  one  inch  long  and  half  an 
inch  thick,  but  we  think  the  salad  better  cut  finer.  When  the 
celery  is  cut,  put  it  between  clean  cloths  to  dry  perfectly,  and 
then  prepare  the  dressing.  For  dressing  for  two  chickens,  take 
three  fourths  of  a  bottle  of  the  purest  salad  oil  or  thick  sweet 
cream,  two  scant  table-spoonfuls  of  the  best  mustard,  the  yelks 
of  two  raw  eggs  and  of  twelve  hard-boiled  ones.  Put  the  eggs  to 
be  boiled  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water  over  a  quick  fire  ;  bring 
to  a  boil,  and  let  them  boil  hard  ten  minutes,  then  drop  them 
into  cold  water.  When  cool,  remove  the  shells.  Break  the  raw 
eggs,  and  drop  the  yelks  into  a  dish  large  enough  to  make  all  the 
dressing  in  ;  beat  them,  stirring  the  same  way,  for  ten  minutes  ; 
then  slowly  add  the  mustard,  mix  it  with  the  eggs  thoroughly, 
then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  the  best  vinegar,  and,  when  this  is  well 
mixed,  add  the  oil,  a  drop  at  a  time,  stirring  constantly  and  al- 
ways the  same  way.  Then  rub  the  yelks  of  the  hard-boiled 
eggs  very  smooth,  and  stir  in  as  lightly  as  possible  a  teacup  of 
vinegar  ;  pour  it  slowly  into  the  first  mixture,  stirring  with  a  silver 
fork.  Now  season  the  chicken  and  celery  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
as  soon  as  ready  for  use  pour  on  the  dressing.  If  set  where  it  is 
too  cold  in  cold  weather,  the  dressing  will  curdle  and  be  ruined. 

Italian  Chicken  Salad. ŌĆö  Make  a  dressing  in  the  j^roportion 
of  the  yelks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  fine,  one  salt-spoon- 
ful of  salt,  one  of  mustard,  and  one  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  of 
white  sugar,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  salad-oU,  and  two  table-spoon- 


SALADS  AND   OMELETS,  437 

fuls  of  vinegar.  Simmer  tliis  dressing  over  the  fire,  but  don't  let 
it  boil.  Stir  constantly  while  over  the  fire.  Then  take  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  the  white  meat  of  cold  chicken  for  this  quantity 
of  cb'essing,  or  increase  in  this  proportion  to  the  desired  quantity  ; 
pull  the  white  meat  into  small  flakes,  pile  it  up  in  a  dish,  and 
jiour  the  dressing  on  it.  Take  two  heads  of  fine,  fresh  lettuce 
that  have  been  washed  and  laid  in  water,  take  out  the  best  part, 
cut  it  up,  and  arrange  in  a  heap  around  the  chicken,  heaped 
in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  on  the  top  of  this  ridge  place  the 
whites  of  eggs,  cut  in  rings  and  laid  in  form  of  a  chain.  A  por- 
tion of  the  lettuce  to  be  helped  with  each  plate  of  chicken. 

Lobster  Salad. ŌĆö  Boil  the  lobsters  half  an  hour  ;  when  cold, 
take  from  the  shell  ;  remove  the  vein  in  the  back,  which  is  not 
good.  Two  heads  of  lettuce,  one  cup  of  melted  butter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mustard  mixed  with  a  little  vinegar,  is  sufficient  for 
six  pounds  of  lobster  ;  after  being  taken  from  the  shell,  salt  and 
pepper  to  your  taste,  remembering  that  more  can  be  added  if  not 
enough  ;  bu.t  if  too  much,  it  is  not  so  easily  rectified.  Chop  them 
together  and  put  in  the  salad-dish.  Beat  six  eggs  with  a  teacup 
of  vinegar,  put  it  over  the  stove  to  thicken,  stirring  it  all  the  time  ; 
Avhen  cold,  spread  over  the  lobster. 

Potato  Salad.  ŌĆö  Cut  ten  or  twelve  cold  boiled  potatoes  into 
slices  from  a  quarter  to  half  an  inch  thick  ;  put  into  a  salad-bowl 
with  four  table-spoonfuls  of  tarragon  or  plain  vinegar,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  best  salad-oil,  one  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  stir  well  that  all  be  thoroughly  mixed. 
It  should  be  made  two  or  three  hours  before  needed  on  the  table. 
Anchovies,  olives,  or  any  pickles  may  be  added  to  this  salad,  as 
also  slices  of  cold  beef,  chicken,  or  turkey,  if  desired. 

Plain  Omelet.  ŌĆö  Put  your  omelet-pan  on  the  stove  with  a 
spoonful  of  butter  ;  keep  it  so  hot  that  the  butter  will  almost 
brown  in  it,  but  not  quite  ;  break  six  fresh  eggs  into  a  clean  bowl ; 
if  fresh,  the  whites  will  be  clear  and  the  yelks  quite  round  ;  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  milk  for  every  egg,  and  whip  the  whole  as  thor- 
oughly as  for  sponge-cake.  When  light,  put  the  whipj^ed  eggs  and 
milk  into  the  omelet-pan  and  set  it  directly  over  the  fire.  As  it 
begins  to  cool,  take  a  thin-bladed  knife  and  run  it  carefully  under 
the  bottom  of  the  egg,  so  as  to  let  that  which  is  not  cooked  run 


438  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

beneath.  If  the  fire  is  right,  the  whole  mass  Avill  instantl^y  puff 
and  swejl  and  cook  in  a  minute,  but  great  care  is  needed  that  it 
does  not  burn  on  the  bottom,  as  scorched  egg  is  very  disagreeable 
and  would  ruin  the  whole.  It  is  not  necessary  to  wait  till  the 
whole  mass  is  solid,  for  its  own  heat  will  cook  it  after  it  has  been 
taken  up,  but  begin  to  clear  it  at  one  side  at  once  and  carefully. 

Puflf  Omelet.  ŌĆö  Take  the  yelks  of.  six  eggs  and  the  whites 
of  three  ;  beat  very  light.  Take  a  teacup  of  cream  (milk  will 
answer)  and  mix  with  it  very  smoothly  one  table-spoonful  of 
flour  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  your  taste  ;  pour  this  into  the 
beaten  eggs.  Melt  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  in  a  pan,  and 
when  hot  pour  in  the  mixture  and  set  the  pan  into  a  hot  oven. 
When  it  thickens  up,  pour  over  it  the  other  three  whites  that 
were  saved  out,  which  you  must  have  all  ready,  beaten  very  light. 
Return  to  the  oven  just  long  enough  for  a  delicate  brown,  then 
sHp  out  on  a  dish  so  that  the  top  part  shall  remain  uppermost. 

Oyster  Omelet.  ŌĆö  Beat  four  eggs  very  light  ;  cut  out  the 
hard  part,  or  eye,  from  a  dozen  oysters  ;  wipe  them  dry  and  cut 
into  small  pieces  ;  stir  them  into  the  beaten  egg,  and  fry  in  hot 
butter.  When  the  under  side  is  a  light  brown,  sprinkle  a  very 
little  salt  and  pepper  over  the  top,  and  fold  one  half  of  the  ome- 
let over  the  other.  Never  turn  an  omelet ;  it  makes  it  heavy 
and  ruins  it. 

Omelet  with  Jelly.  ŌĆö  Beat  separately  the  yelks  and  whites 
of  four  fresh  eggs  ;  add  to  the  yelks  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten  to 
your  taste,  and  an  even  dessert-spoonful  of  corn  flour  very  smoothly 
beaten  in  a  table-spoonful  of  cream.  Beat  this  with  the  yelks  till 
perfectly  smooth,  and  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  very  gently, 
so  as  to  break  the  froth  as  little  as  possible  ;  pour  the  whole  into 
a  frying-pan  in  which  some  butter  has  been  melted,  but  drain  off 
the  butter  before  adding  the  eggs,  etc.  Put  it  over  the  fire,  ŌĆö  two 
or  three  minutes  will  cook  the  under  side  ;  hold  the  pan  to  the 
fire  till  the  under  side  looks  firm,  then  spread  raspberry  or  straw- 
berry jam  over  one  half  ;  turn  the  other  over  it,  and  serve  imme- 
diately. 

Baked  Omelet.  ŌĆö  Boil  half  a  pint  of  milk  ;  beat  six  eggs 
thoroughly,  yelks  and  whites  separately  ;  put  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  a  piece  of  biitter  half  as  large  as  an  egg  to  the  boiling 


EGGS.  439 

milk  ;  stir  it  into  the  beaten  eggs  ;  pour  all  instantly  into  a  deep 
dish  and  bake. .  If  the  oven  is  hot,  five  minutes  will  bake  it ;  not 
{|uite  so  hot  an  oven  and  a  little  longer  time  will  be  better,  ŌĆö 
say  ten  minutes.  It  should  be  of  a  delicate  brown  on  toji,  and 
eaten  right  from  the  oven. 

Omelette  Soufflee.  ŌĆö  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  ;  then  add  the  yelks  well  beaten,  with  three  table-spoon- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar  and  the  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  live 
ndnutes  ;  serve  immediately. 

EGGS. 

Boiled  Eggs.  ŌĆö  Be  sure  and  select  fresh  eggs  for  boiling,  never 
more  than  a  week  old.  Have  the  water  just  boiHng  ;  if  boiling 
fiercely  when  the  eggs  are  put  in,  it  will  crack  the  shell.  Three 
minutes  will  boil  an  egg  soft ;  five  minutes  will  be  necessary  if 
you  like  them  hard,  and  ten  or  twelve  minutes  if  needed  for  salad  ; 
in  the  latter  case  they  should  be  thrown  into  cold  water  the  in- 
stant they  are  taken  from  the  boiling  water,  else  the  white  will 
be  dark  colored  or  clouded.  When  perfectly  new,  an  egg  requires 
about  half  a  minute  longer  boiling  than  if  four  or  five  days  old. 

Fried  Eggs.  ŌĆö  The  fat  left  after  frying  ham,  or  that  which  is 
left  in  the  l)ake-pan  after  bro^vning  a  ham,  is  better  for  frying  eggs 
than  lard  or  butter.  See  that  it  is  boiling  hot,  hut  not  discolored, 
and  drop  the  eggs  in  one  at  a  time.  Let  them  cook  half  a  minute, 
then  dijj  up  some  of  the  boiling  fat  from  the  pan,  and  pour  over 
them.  Continue  to  do  this  till  they  are  done,  and  it  will  not  be 
necessary  to  turn  them  over,  which  endangers  breaking  the  yelk. 
Two  and  a  half  minutes  should  cook  them  sufficiently.  "When 
dropping  them  in.  hold  the  cup  into  which  you  break  each  one 
close  to  the  pan,  and  let  the  egg  slip  in  as  easily  as  possible,  so 
that  it  will  not  spread  in  a  ragged  surface  over  the  pan. 

Poached  Eggs.  ŌĆö  While  hoiling  a  pint  of  milk,  beat  six 
eggs  to  a  froth.  Just  before  the  milk  begins  to  boil,  add  half 
a  table-spoonful  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  stir  into 
it ;  then  pour  in  the  eggs,  stir  without  ceasing,  but  gently,  till  it 
thickens,  ŌĆö  not  more  than  two  minutes.  Take  it  from  the  stove 
or  range,  and  continue  to  stir  half  a  minute  or  so,  and  then  pour 


440  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

it  over  two  or  three  thin  slices  of  toasted  bread  which  has  been 
spread  Avith  butter,  and  all  prepared  in  a  deep  dish  before  the  eggs 
are  put  into  the  niilk.     This  is  very  nice  for  breakfast. 

Hard  Scrabbled.  ŌĆö  Put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  fry- 
ing-pan ;  beat  six  eggs  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  When  the 
butter  is  very  hot,  but  not  scorched,  put  in  the  eggs  ;  stir  until  it 
thickens,  and  serve  hot. 

Fricasseed  Eggs,  or  Egg  Baskets.  ŌĆö  Boil  hard  half  a  dozen 
eggs  or  more,  according  to  the  size  of  your  family.  When  done, 
throw  into  cold  water  immediately.  (This  should  always  be  done 
with  hard-boiled  eggs,  else  the  yelk  will  turn  black.)  Cut  the 
eggs  in  half  after  taking  from  the  cold  water.  Eub  the  yelks  in 
a  marble  or  wedgewood  mortar,  or  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon, 
with  some  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  to  a  smooth  paste  ; 
and,  if  you  know  it  will  be  agreeable  to  all,  add  a  very  little  made 
mustard.  Pound  the  finely  minced  meat  of  a  cold  fowl,  or  grind 
some  cold  tongue  or  ham,  and  having  made  it  smooth,  mix  with 
the  egg-paste,  moistening  as  you  proceed  with  a  little  gravy,  or, 
if  you  have  none  to  spare,  with  melted  butter.  Cut  a  thin  slice 
from  the  bottom  of  the  white  of  the  egg,  so  that  it  will  stand,  and 
fill  each  of  the  hard  whites  with,  this  paste.  Place  close  together 
on  a  flat  dish,  and  pour  over  the  gravy  left  from  the  roast  fowl 
yesterday,  heated  boiling  hot,  into  wliich  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream 
or  rich  milk  have  been  stirred.  Cover  closely  with  a  hot  cover, 
and  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes  before  sending  to  table.  If 
liked,  a  little  parsley,  chopped  fine,  may  be  added,  to  the  taste. 

Excellent  for  breaksast  when  eggs  are  plenty. 

Egg  Toast.  ŌĆö  Put  some  milk  to  boil  in  a  farina-kettle  ;  when 
it  comes  to  a  full  boil,  take  from  over  the  fire  and  break  in 
your  eggs  ;  let  them  stand  in  the  hot  milk  from  eight  to  ten  min- 
utes, but  not  over  the  fire.  Steam  a  light  biscuit,  or,  if  you  prefer, 
some  Graham  bread  till  soft,  or  dip  it  into  boiling  milk  and  lay 
the  egg  on  it,  sprinkling  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  If  desired, 
after  the  biscuit  is  steamed  or  moistened  in  hot  milk,  you  can 
spread  a  little  butter  over  it  before  the  egg  is  put  on  it.  This  is 
a  prett)"-  breakfast  dish,  and  much  more  healthy  than  when  the 
eggs  are  boiled,  fried,  or  made  into  an  omelet,  as  the  albumen 
(or  white  of  the  egg),  being  only  slightly  cooked,  is  much  more 


EGGS.  441 

digestil)le.  If  careful  not  to  scorch  it,  it  is  Letter  to  boil  in  an 
iron  kettle  rather  than  the  farina-kettle,  as  iron  will  retain  the  heat 
longer  than  tin  when  taken  from  the  fire.  Cookeil  in  boiling 
water  rather  than  milk,  eggs  are  said  to  be  even  more  digestible, 
but  they  are  not  so  palatable. 

Scrambled  Eggs.  ŌĆö  Put  into  a  spider  enough  butter  just  to 
oil  the  bottom  ;  set  it  on  the  stove.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  dish, 
taking  care  not  to  break  the  yelks.  As  soon  as  the  spider  is  heated, 
slip  iu  the  eggs,  adding  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut  for 
twelve  egg.s  ;  season  with  veiy  little  salt  and  pepper.  When  the 
eggs  harden  a  little,  stir  the  eggs  from  the  bottom  of  the  spider 
until  cooked  to  suit.  The  yelks  and  whites  should  be  separate, 
though  stirred  together  ;  not  mixed,  like  beaten  eggs. 

Scrambled  Eggs.  ŌĆö  Melt  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  beat  the  yelks  of  six  eggs  a  few  minutes  ;  then  atld  to  them 
six  table-spoonfuls  of  milk  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  beat  a  little 
longer,  and  pour  them  into  the  melted  butter.  When  they 
thicken  slightly,  pour  in  the  whites  unbeaten,  and  mix  them  with 
the  yelks  carefully  with  a  fork,  and  serve  on  pieces  of  toast  in  a 
hot  dish,  or  if  preferred  omit  the  bread.  The  whites  should  not 
be  beaten  in  hard,  only  stirred  with  the  fork  enough  to  mix  in 
slightly  with  the  rest. 

Dropped  Eggs.  ŌĆö  Have  ready  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water. 
Throw  in  a  little  salt.  Break  fresh  eggs  into  a  cup,  one  by  one, 
and  gently  drop  each  into  the  water  so  as  not  to  break  the  yelk 
or  have  the  white  spread  much.  Dip  the  boiling  water  over  the 
yelk  with  a  large  spoon  until  the  white  sets  ;  then  with  an  egg- 
slice  take  each  egg  out  separately  upon  buttered  toast.  Dress  the 
ilish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  ;  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  if  not 
seasoned  sufficiently  by  the  salted  water.  It  is  safer  to  cook  one 
egg  at  a  time,  keeping  tlie  dish  covered  into  which  they  are  placed 
after  being  cooked,  or  where  it  will  keep  hot. 

Cottage  Cheese.  ŌĆö  Take  half  sour  milk,  when  well  thickened, 
before  it  has  been  stirred,  and  half  buttermilk,  at  least  twenty- 
four  hours  old  ;  set  the  dishes  containing  the  milk  and  butter- 
milk separately  over  kettles  of  hot  water  till  the  clear  whey  just 
begins  to  rise  to  the  top.  Do  not  let  it  get  too  hot,  or  the  cheese 
will  be  hard  and  tasteless.  When  the  whey  has  risen,  pour 
19* 


442  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEirTS. 

iDOth  into  a  strainer-cloth  or  hag  ;  tie  it  at  the  top,  and  hang  it 
up  to  drain.  If  prepared  for  draining  in  the  morning,  by  the 
middle  of  the  afternoon  it  Avill  be  sufficiently  free  from  whey. 
Then  turn  it  out  of  the  strainer  and  crumble  all  up  fine  ;  throw 
in  a  little  salt  and  black  pepper,  rub  in  a  table-spoonful  of  butter, 
and  moisten  with  milk  till  soft  enough  to  make  into  small  pats  or 
rolls  for  tea.  If  you  have  cream  to  wet  it  up  with,  rise  no  butter. 
If  you  like  it  quite  soft,  add  more  milk  or  cream,  and  put  the 
cheese  into  a  deep  dish,  without  attempting  to  make  into  balls. 

Cheese  Toast.  ŌĆö  Without  great  care,  there  is  danger  of  much 
waste  after  a  rich  cheese  is  cut,  and  part  sent  to  the  table  daily. 
If  servants  are  allowed  to  cut  it,  waste  would  seem  inevitable  ; 
but  if  the  mistress  looks  after  the  cheese,  there  are  many  nice 
relishes  to  be  made  from  the  crumbs  and  dried  pieces. 

Take  five  table-spoonfuls  of  rich  cheese,  grated  (the  "  crumbles  " 
and  dry  bits  are  as  good  as  if  cut  for  this  purpose  from  the  cheese), 
mix  with  it  the  yelk  of  one  egg,  four  ounces  of  grated  bread,  and 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  Beat  it  all  in  a  mortar,  ŌĆö  a  marble 
one  if  you  have  it,  ŌĆö  adding  a  dessert-spoonful  of  mustard  and  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Toast  some  slices  of  bread,  lay  the  paste 
upon  them  quite  thick  ;  put  it  into  the  oven  a  few  minutes  and 
send  to  the  table  hot. 

-      VEGETABLES. 

Much  care  in  selecting  vegetables  is  necessary,  but  still  more 
in  preparing  them  for  the  table.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  so 
little  attention  is  given  to  this.  Half  the  enjoyment  that  should 
be  derived  from  the  abundance  of  the  best  varieties  which  our 
farms  and  markets  offer  in  every  summer  season  is  lost  by 
unskillful  cooking.  So  evident  is  this  fact,  that  it  appears  quite 
important  to  call  the  particular  attention  of  young  liouselceeiiers  to 
this  part  of  their  duty.  We  are  so  much  in  earnest,  and  deem 
this  part  of  their  labors  so  worthy  of  extra  care,  that  no  doubt 
those  who  think  us  quite  too  particular  and  whimsical  in  our 
inculcations  of  extreme  neatness  in  household  management  will 
find  the  same  grounds  for  objection  here.  We  would  suggest  thnt 
those  who  feel  inclined  to  raise  these  objections  should  overlook 
everything  and  every  place  about  their  houses,  and  attend  Avith 


VEGETABLES.  443 

their  own  hands  to  all  that  onght  to  be  clone /or  one  month.  We 
imagine  that,  shonld  they  do  this,  their  experience  of  the  beauty 
of  great  cleanliness,  and  the  added  luxury  and  pleasure  of  their 
table  comforts,  would  justify  our  teachings. 

Of  course  it  is  only  those  who  raise  vegetables  themselves  a\  ho 
can  enjoy  in  the  highest  degree  the  pleasure  of  eating  them.  No 
luxury  of  this  kind,  peas,  corn,  beans,  salads,  etc.,  can  ever  be  had 
in  perfection  when  gathered  overnight  and  brought  to  the  market 
or  the  store,  lying  for  hours  it  may  be  before  they  are  used.  But 
even  after  such  exposure  and  waste  of  the  finer  flavors,  they  can 
be  made  more  palatable  by  proper  cooldng. 

Almost  all  vegetables  are  better  steamed  than  boiled,  as  all  the 
juices  are  secured  by  this  method  ;  particulary  is  this  true  in 
cooking  corn  and  peas.  A  large  kettle  half  hlled  with  boiling 
water,  a  steamer  fitting  closely  in  the  top  of  the  kettle,  and  the 
cover  fitting  as  closely  to  the  steamer,  answers  very  well  when 
there  is  no  better  way.  But  there  are  now  in  market  various 
kinds  of  steamers  for  cooking,  which  profess  to  make  it  a  very 
convenient  mode  of  preparing  food.  The  "  Peerless,"  one  of  the 
best  cooking  stoves  we  have  ever  known,  has  a  large  steamer  of 
the  size  and  shape  of  a  wash-boiler,  with  two  perforated  compart- 
ments in  which  to  put  the  various  articles  to  be  cooked,  and  we 
have  found  it  exceedingly  convenient  for  steaming  all  kinds  of 
vegetables.  We  have  elsewhere  mentioned  the  "  Kumford  Boiler," 
the  "Warren  Cooker,"  etc.  A  large  amount  of  corn^ ŌĆö for  those 
Avho  can  gather  sweet  corn  right  from  the  stalk  are  not  likely  to 
be  satisfied  with  a  small  mess  ŌĆö  can  be  placed  in  one  part  ;  peas 
in  a  dish,  all  seasoned,  set  beside  the  com  ;  potatoes,  beets,  cauli- 
flower, each  in  separate  dish,  can  find  a  place  in  this  large  steamer, 
and  cooked  without  losing  any  of  their  richness,  yet,  all  being  in 
one  large  receptacle,  less  room  is  occupied  on  the  stove  than  when 
each  article  is  put  in  a  separate  kettle. 

Corn.  ŌĆö  Like  peas  and  most  summer  produce,  corn  should  be 
used  as  soon  as  plucked.  Husk,  silk,  and  put  into  boiling  water 
as  soon  as  possiljle  after  it  is  brought  from  the  garden.  Let  it 
boil  twenty  minutes,  or,  if  large  kernels  and  cob,  thirty. 

The  small  early  corn  that  will  not  cook  in  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  is  too  old,  or  wholly  worthless  for  cooking.     As  soon  as 


444  CHOICE   FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

the  com  is  done,  put  it  on  the  plates  with  a  napkin  under,  and 
send  it  to  the  table  hot.  If  you  prefer  it  cut  from  the  cob,  as 
soon  as  it  is  cooked  cut  it  off,  and  to  three  pints  of  com  put  one 
spoonful  of  butter,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  your  taste  ;  put 
in  but  a  little  at  first  and  then  taste  (always  remember  that  in 
seasoning  you  can  add  if  needed,  but  cannot  easily  take  away),  add 
a  cup  and  a  half  of  good  cream,  or  if  you  must  use  milk  instead, 
put  in  haK  a  spoonful  more  butter.  Have  boiling  water  in  the 
under  part  of  your  farina-kettle,  and  pour  yovir  corn  into  the 
upper.  Set  over  the  fire  till  just  ready  to  boil,  then  dish  and 
send  to  the  table  hot. 

Another  "Way.  ŌĆö  With  a  thin,  sharp  knife,  cut  the  com  from 
the  cob  before  cooking,  being  careful  not  to  cut  so  closely  as  to 
take  the  horny  point  that  fastens  the  kernel  to  the  cob.  Put 
the  com  into  the  farina-kettle  as  above  directed,  with  a  little  salt, 
pepper,  two  cups  cream,  one  spoonful  butter,  or  two  cups  sweet 
milk  and  two  great  spoonfuls  of  butter.  Be  sure  and  scrape 
all  the  milk  from  the  cob  when  you  have  cut  off  the  kernels,  or 
squeeze  it  out  with  your  hand.  It  adds  more  to  the  richness 
of  the  dish  than  you  would  at  first  imagine.  Set  the  kettle  over 
the  fire  and  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes.  It  will  take  less  time  to 
cook  than  when  boiled  on  the  cob. 

Boiling  Potatoes.  ŌĆö  To  boil  potatoes  well  requires  more 
attention  than  is  usually  given.  They  should  be  well  washed, 
and  left  standing  in  cold  water  an  hour  or  two,  to  remove  the 
black  liquor  with  which  they  are  impregnated,  and  a  brackish 
taste  they  would  otherwise  have.  They  should  not  be  pared 
before  boiling  ;  they  lose  much  of  the  starch  by  so  doing,  and  are 
made  insipid.  Put  them  into  a  kettle  of  clear  cold  water,  with  a 
little  salt,  cover  closely  and  boil  rapidly,  using  no  more  water  than 
will  just  cover  them,  as  they  produce  a  considerable  quantity  of 
fluid  themselves  while  boiling,  and  too  much  water  will  make 
them  heavy.  As  soon  as  just  done,  instantly  pour  off  the  water, 
set  them  back  on  the  range,  and  leave  the  cover  off  the  saucepan 
till  the  steam  has  evaporated.  They  will  then,  if  a  good  kind,  be 
dry  and  mealy.     This  is  an  Irish  receipt,  and  a  good  one. 

Another  Way.  ŌĆö  Put  them,  with  skins  on,  into  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  ;  let  them  come  just  to  the  boiling  point,  and  pour  in  a  cup 


VEGETABLES.  445 

of  cold  water,  and,  as  the  Irish  say,  the  boiling  is  "  backed." 
Kepeat  this  till  the  potato  is  tender.  The  object  is  to  keep  the 
water  just  on  the  verge  of  boiling,  but  check  it  by  a  little  cold 
water  till  the  potato  is  done. 

To  Boil  New  Potatoes.  ŌĆö  When  fresh  dug  take  the  small 
potatoes  not  quite  ripe,  wash  clean,  then  rub  the  skin  off  with  the 
hand  ŌĆö  never  use  a  knife  ŌĆö  and  put  them  into  boiling  water  with 
a  little  salt  ;  boil  quickly  ;  when  done,  drain  dry  and  lay  into  a 
dish,  spreading  a  little  butter  over  them,  or  boil  some  new  milk, 
put  in  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour 
wet  smooth  with  milk.  When  the  potatoes  are  cooked  and  laid 
in  the  dish  pour  this  dip  over  them.     This  is  very  nice. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  ŌĆö  Boil  with  skins  on ;  when  done,  peel 
quickly,  and  put,  as  you  peel,  into  a  saucepan  over  the  stove,  but 
not  hot  enough  to  burn ;  mash  free  from  lumps  to  a  smooth  paste  ; 
have  ready,  before  peeling  the  potatoes,  a  piece  of  butter  half  the 
size  of  an  egg,  melted,  and  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  with  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste  ;  when  the  potatoes  are  mashed  smooth,  pour  in 
the  milk  and  butter,  and  work  it  quick  and  smooth,  then  dish  ; 
dress  the  top  with  a  knife  so  as  to  be  roimd  and  smooth,  rub  on  a 
little  beaten  egg,  and  brown  in  the  oven  very  delicately.  Serve 
with  fowls  or  roast  meat. 

Potato  Croquettes.  ŌĆö  Boil  potatoes  with  just  enough  water 
to  cover  ;  when  three  quarters  done  pour  off  the  water  and  let  them 
steam  to  finish  cooking  ;  then  press  them  through  a  wire  sieve  ; 
this  done,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  adding  one  ounce  butter  to 
one  quart  potatoes,  and  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  two  eggs  ;  mix 
together  thoroughly  ;  then  flour  the  paste-board,  divide  the  potato 
paste  into  square  parts  and  roll  them  on  the  board  to  any  shape, 
ŌĆö  l^alls,  pears,  corks,  or  what  you  choose,  ŌĆö  dip  them  in  egg  and 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  light  brown. 

Saratoga  Fried  Potatoes.  ŌĆö  Wash  the  potatoes  clean,  slice 
with  a  potato-slicer  very  thin,  throw  into  cold  water  long  enough 
to  take  out  some  of  the  starch,  then  wipe  dry  and  put  into  boil- 
ing lard,  a  few  pieces  at  a  time  ;  be  sure  and  keep  the  lard  boil- 
ing ;  as  soon  as  the  potatoes  are  of  a  clear  golden  broAvn,  skim  out, 
drain  in  a  colander  or  sieve,  and  serve  hot. 

Scalloped   Potatoes.  ŌĆö  Boil   in  the   skins.      Peel  quickly. 


\' 


446  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

when  done,  and  rab  through  a  colander  or  coarse  sieve,  or  mash 
smoothly  ;  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  ;  add  two 
or  three  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine.  Foiu-  eggs  to  a  quart  of 
mashed  potatoes  are  nice  ;  but  if  eggs  are  not  plenty,  two  will  do. 
Fill  a  bake-dish  with  it,  and  bake  long  enough  to  form  a  deli- 
cately brown  crust.     Serve  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven. 

Snow  Potatoes.  ŌĆö  Boil  till  just  done  ;  peel  and  throw  into 
a  colander  or  coarse  sieve  ;  break  them  up  a  little  ;  then  sprinkle 
in  a  little  salt  ;  add  as  much  butter  as  for  common  mashed  po- 
tatoes, and  enough  milk  to  enable  you  to  rub  them  easily  through 
the  colander.  They  will,  if  not  too  moist,  come  through  in  strings 
and  fall  in  a  light  snowy  mass  into  the  vegetable-dish,  which 
should  be  placed  underneath.  Do  not  stir  it,  but  send  to  the 
table  just  as  it  falls  into  the  dish. 

Potato  Cakes.  ŌĆö  Grate  one  teacup  of  raw  ham,  mix  it  with 
a  quart  of  finely  mashed  potatoes ;  beat  and  stir  into  this  two  eggs, 
add  j)epper,  salt  (not  too  much),  and  a  little  mustard,  ŌĆö  a  small 
tetispoonful  is  not  too  much  if  you  like  it  highly  seasoned,  ŌĆö  roll 
in  balls  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Sage  and  sweet-marjoram  can  be 
added  if  their  taste  is  agreeable. 

To  Fry  Sweet  Potatoes.  ŌĆö  Pare,  slice  thin,  fry  in  hot  lard, 
like  fritters,  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  as  they  are  taken  from 
the  lard. 

Maccaroni.  ŌĆö  Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  maccaroni  in  clear 
water  till  tender.  While  boiling,  thicken  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
milk  with  enough  flour  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  thick  cream  ;  add 
half  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream, 
half  a  small  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  pepper  (white  if  you 
have  it,  if  not  black  will  answer),  a  little  salt,  and  a  very  little 
cayenne  pepper.  Stir  into  this  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated 
cheese.  Boil  this  all  together  a  few  moments,  stirring  it  con- 
stantly to  prevent  its  burning,  then  drain  the  water  from  the 
maccaroni,  and  stir  it  into  the  thickened  milk  ;  let  it  boil  up  a  few 
moments,  and  serve  hot  ;  or,  if  preferred,  after  dishing  it,  set  the 
dish  in  the  oven  and  let  it  brown.  For  variety,  a  little  parsley 
chopped  fine  and  stirred  in  before  adding  the  maccaroni  is  con- 
sidered an  improvement. 

Another  very  good  way  to  prepare  maccaroni  is,  boil  it  fifteen 


VEGETABLES.  447 

or  twenty  minutes  in  clear  water,  then  drain  it,  and  use  cliicken 
or  veal  broth  instead  of  milk  for  the  seasoning. 

Another  :  Prepare  as  alcove  or  with  milk,  and  just  before  it  is 
done  beat  up  two  eggs  and  stir  in. 

Egg  Plant.  ŌĆö Take  tlie  fruit  fully  ripe  ;  cut  in  slices  not  more 
than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  put  it  to  soak  in  cold  salted 
water  for  two  hours.  This  removes  a  black,  bitter  property,  said 
to  be  unhealthful,  certainly  disagreeable  ;  then  wipe  the  slices 
on  a  clean  cloth,  dip  in  the  white  of  egg  and  fry  in  boiling  hot 
butter  till  well  browned,  but  be  careful  not  to  scorch  them  ; 
serve  hot. 

Another  Way.  ŌĆö  Pare  and  qiiarter  two  or  three  egg-plants, 
according  to  the  size  of  your  family.  Soak  them  in  salt  and 
water,  as  directed  above,  then  boil  till  soft  enough  to  mash  like 
turnips.  Mash  them  smooth,  add  a  few  bread  crumbs  soaked  in 
milk,  and  one  or  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  according  to  the 
quantity  ;  a  little  chopped  parsley,  an  onion  boiled  and  mashed, 
and  salt  and  pejiper.  Mix  all  thoroughly  ;  pour  into  a  baking- 
dish,  cover  the  top  with  grated  bread,  and  bake  for  a  half- hour. 
Serve  hot.  For  a  fancy  dish  some  boil  the  plant  till  soft,  then 
cut  in  halves  and  scoop  out  the  flesh,  leaving  the  skin  whole. 
Mash  the  inside  smooth,  and  dress  as  above.  Mix  well,  and  stew 
half  an  hour,  then  put  it  back  into  the  shell  or  skin  ;  strew  bread 
crumbs  over,  and  brown  slightly. 

Cucumbers  after  they  begin  to  turn  yellow,  and  muskmelons 
that  come  on  too  late  to  ripen,  may  be  sliced  and  fried  like  the 
egg-plant,  and  can  scarcely  be  distinguished  from  it.  Some  think 
they  are  better. 

Fricasseed  Egg-plant.  ŌĆö  Peel  and  slice  the  egg-plant  ;  lay 
the  slices  in  salt-water  two  hours,  to  remove  the  bitterness  and 
the  black  which  it  would  otherwise  have  ;  after  soaking,  drain  off 
all  the  water  ;  have  enough  boiling  water  in  a  clean,  bright  sauce- 
pan to  cover  the  slices  ;  throw  in  a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  and  lay 
in  the  egg-plant  ;  let  them  boil  till  thoroughly  cooked  ;  then 
(.train  off  the  water,  pour  in  sufficient  milk  to  cover  the  slices, 
and  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour  ;  let  it  sim- 
mer gently,  shake  the  pan  over  the  fire  till  the  sauce  is  thick, 
and  then  stir  iu  the  beaten  yelks  of  three  eggs  just  before  serving. 


448  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

To  Ste-w  Tomatoes.  ŌĆö  Pour  boiling  water  over  fair  and  fully 
ripe  tomatoes,  that  you  may  peel  them  quickly  ;  let  the  water  re- 
main only  long  enough  to  start  the  skin.  When  peeled,  cut  into 
an  earthen  pipkin  or  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  as  tin  or  iron 
turns  them  dark  and  gives  a  bad  taste.  If  onions  are  agreeable, 
cut  one  small  one  in  with  the  tomatoes.  Cover  closely  and  set 
where  they  will  gently  simmer,  but  not  boil  hard.  Stir  them 
occasionally  to  prevent  burning,  and  Avhen  they  have  cooked  two 
hours  add  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  your  own  taste,  and  to  a  quart 
of  tomatoes  add  a  table-spoonful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  and  two 
and  a  half  even  spoonfuls  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  After  the 
crumbs  are  added  stii-  often  or  they  will  stick  to  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  and  soon  burn.  Twenty  minutes  before  dinner  beat  two 
eggs,  or  if  you  Lave  more  than  a  quart  of  tomatoes  increase  the 
number  in  the  proportion  of  two  eggs  to  a  quart ;  stir  briskly 
and  often  after  the  eggs  are  added,  and  serve  hot.  If  possible 
the  tomatoes  should  be  skinned  and  on  the  back  part  of  the 
stove  before  breakfast,  as  the  longer  they  simmer  the  better  they 
will  be.  Three  hours'  slow  cooking  at  least,  five  is  better.  If 
prepared  according  to  rule,  they  are  thought  very  nice  by  tomato- 
lovers,  and  are  better  warmed  over  the  second  day  than  they 
were  the  first. 

Baked  Tomatoes.  ŌĆö  Peel  and  slice  good,  firm,  but  ripe  to- 
matoes ;  put  them  in  a  pudding-dish,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
two  great  spoonfuls  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  tomatoes,  and  one 
spoonful  of  butter.  Sprinkle  some  finely  powdered  bread  crumbs 
over  the  top  and  bake  slowly  two  hours. 

To  add  two  well-beaten  eggs  is  thought  by  some  to  improve 
this  dish. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes.  ŌĆö  Peel  as  many  large,  ripe  tomatoes 
as  you  wish  to  prepare  ;  cut  them  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  ;  pack  in  a  pudding-dish  iirst  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  then  a 
thick  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  white  sugar, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  ;  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  then  bread 
crumbs,  etc.,  till  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  having  tomatoes  last. 
Now  dust  over  pepper,  a  little  sugar,  and  more  butter ;  strew 
the  top  with  bread  crumlss,  and  bake,  covered,  half  an  hour  ;  then 
remove  the  cover,  and  bake  brown,  but  be  careful  not  to  scorch. 


VEGETABLES.  449 

We  have  received  from  a  South  Carolina  lady  the  two  follow- 
ing receipts  :  ŌĆö 

Boiled  Rice.  ŌĆö  One  pint  of  rice,  as  new  as  it  can  be  had,  ŌĆö 
old  lice  has  a  dead  taste,  ŌĆö  to  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one 
lal)le-spoonful  of  salt.  Boil  biiskly  a  few  minutes,  until  the 
water  seems  absorbed  ;  then,  keeping  it  closely  covered,  set  on 
one  side  of  the  stove,  where  it  can  be  kept  hot  and  steam  itself 
done,  ŌĆö  not  become  soft  and  mushy.  In  about  half  an  hour  it 
will  be  cooked  sufficiently.  Serve  very  hot  with  the  meats,  like 
potatoes.  If  cooked  soft  and  watery,  and  stirred  till  gluey  ŌĆö  as 
is  so  often  done  ŌĆö  it  would  not  be  thought  eatable  at  the  South. 
Never  stir  more  than  once,  and  then  only  when  it  first  boils. 
Some  prefer  only  one  pint  of  water  to  one  pint  of  rice. 

Cooking  Rice.  ŌĆö  Pick  over  and  wash  a  cup  of  rice  ;  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  set  where  it  will  cook  slowly.  When  the 
rice  has  absorbed  all  the  water,  pour  in  a  cup  of  milk  ;  stir  often 
and  cook  slowly  ;  in  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  it  will  take  up  all  the 
milk  ;  then  add  another  cup,  and  so  on,  till  the  rice  is  soft,  then 
add  a  little  salt,  and  dish.  Eat  with  meat,  or  as  dessert  ;  if  the 
latter,  sweeten  rich  sweet  cream  and  grate  in  nutmegs  and  use  as 
sauce  to  the  pudding. 

Peas.  ŌĆö  To  prepare  any  article  of  food  in  the  best  way  should 
not  be  thought  "too  much  trouble."  Many  kinds  of  early  peas 
are  dry,  almost  tasteless,  and  if  what  sweetness  there  may  be  in 
the  pod  is  not  added  to  the  peas  to  remedy  this  deficiency,  they 
Avill  be  very  insipid. 

"  Carter's  Full  Crop  "  and  the  "  Daniel  O'Rourke  "  are  among 
our  earliest,  but  neither  is  a  very  sweet  pea.  To  use  these  with 
any  enjoyment,  securincj  all  the  saccharine  properties  of  the  pod, 
is  very  essential.  They  are  of  the  smooth,  round  kind,  and  these 
are  never  as  sweet  as  the  wrinkled  peas,  ŌĆö  that  is,  those  that 
wrinkle  in  boiling  or  drying. 

"  The  Little  Gem  "  and  the  "  Champion  of  England  "  are  later, 
but  among  our  best  and  sweetest  peas.  They  do  not  need  the 
juices  of  the  pod  so  much  in  cooking,  but  we  think  are  enough 
sweeter  and  richer  for  it  to  pay  for  the  trouble.  Some  cooks 
throw  in  a  little  sugar  to  increase  the  flavor,  as  they  use  soda  to 
make    them  tender ;    but   don't  do    it  unless  your   taste    is  so 

CG 


450  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

deficient  that  you  can  be  satisfied  with  simple  sweetness  and 
tenderness,  without  regard  to  rich,  genuine  flavor.  For  such,  any- 
tasteless  thing,  so  that  it  is  sweet  and  tender,  is  as  good  as 
peas. 

Green  Peas.  ŌĆö  The  first  rule  is  to  use  the  peas  fresh  from 
the  vines,  every  hour's  delay  in  cooking  after  they  are  gathered 
destroys  something  of  their  finest  flavor.  Wtish  them  before 
shelling,  never  after.  Shell  and  pick  over  nicely.  First  put  in 
the  fresh  pods.  Press  them  down,  leaving  only  water  enough 
to  cover  them.  Let  them  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  skim  out, 
and  put  in  the  peas.  If  there  is  more  than  enough  water  to 
cover  the  peas  after  the  pods  have  been  removed,  pour  it  out. 
Let  them  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Peas  that  require  more 
than  twenty  minutes,  or  need  soda  to  make  them  tender,  are  only 
fit  for  soup.  When  done,  put  what  butter  is  needed  into  the 
dish,  and  pour  the  peas  on  it,  adding  a  little  pepper.  Some  pre- 
fer them  dry,  and  drain  them  through  a  strainer,  but  we  think 
some  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled  is  a  A'^ery  great  im- 
provement. The  amount  of  butter  needed  must  be  decided  by 
the  quantity  of  peas  and  the  taste.  Boiling  the  pods  adds  greatly 
to  the  sweetness  and  richness  of  the  peas. 

Beans.  ŌĆö  The  dwarf  wax  beans  are  among  the  best  string 
beans.  The  pod  is  very  tender  and  white,  almost  transparent 
when  cooked.  The  Valentine  is  also  very  good.  Of  the  pole- 
beans  the  Horticultural  and  Lima  are  the  best.  If  you  cannot 
raise  the  Lima,  the  Saba  is  a  good  substitute,  though  by  no  means 
equal  to  it. 

In  cooking  the  wax  bean,  simply  cut  off  the  ends,  and  snap 
the  pod  in  small  bits.  Put  salt  into  boiling  water  and  then  put 
in  the  beans.  If  the  salt  is  thrown  in  before  the  vegetables, 
they  retain  their  color  ;  but  if  salt  is  added  after  they  are  in  hot 
water,  they  will  be  of  a  faded  olive  color  when  cooked,  and  not  so 
well  flavored.  String-beans  should  cook  a  full  hour  unless  very 
tender.  When  done  put  in  your  vegetable-dish  some  butter,  al- 
lowing an  even  great  spoonful  to  a  pint  of  string-beans  ;  add  a 
little  pepper  and  pour  the  beans  upon  it,  with  some  of  the  water 
in  Avhich  they  were  boiled.  Like  peas,  some  prefer  them  quite 
moist  ;  those  who  do  not  can  easily  be  suited  by  having  theirs 


VEGETABLES.  451 

taken  out  free  from  the  liquor.  Lima  beans  are  not  good  to  use 
lor  string-hcans,  but  the  beau  itself  is  delicious.  It  requires  a 
lull  hour  to  boil.  AVhen  ready  to  dish,  season  the  same  as  peas 
or  string-beans.  Many  consider  cream  an  addition  both  for  peas 
and  beans,  but  we  think  much  of  the  peculiar  delicacy  is  lost  by 
it.  The  more  simple  such  articles  can  be  prepared  the  more  of 
the  true  flavor  is  retained. 

Asparagus.  ŌĆö  Wash  it  clean,  but  do  not  leave  in  water.  Cut 
olf  all  of  the  white  ends  that  are  woody  and  tough,  and  when 
ready  to  boil  tie  up  the  stalks  in  a  neat  bunch,  lay  them  in  the 
saucepan,  sprinkle  over  as  nruch  salt  as  is  needed  to  season, 
then  just  cover  the  bunch  or  bunches  with  boiling  water.  Cook 
twenty  minutes.  When  done,  take  the  asparagus  out  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  off  any  part  that  has  not  cooked  tender  and 
throw  away.  Then  cut  the  stalks  up  into  pieces  half  an  inch 
long  and  put  them  back  into  the  saucepan  with  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  butter  to  each  good-sized  bunch  ;  a  little  pepper,  one  cup  of 
good  cream,  and  enough  finely  rolled  bread  crumbs  to  thicken  it 
a  little,  say  only  two  even  table-spoonfuls.  If  there  is  enough 
water  left  after  boiling  to  make  the  dish  too  liquid,  pour  off  part 
of  it  before  returning  the  asparagus,  cream,  and  bread  crumbs 
to  the  saucepan.  Let  it  all  boil  up  for  two  or  three  minutes, 
then  dish  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Spinach.  ŌĆö  Pick  and  wash  it  with  great  care.  Put  into  a 
saucepan  that  will  just  hold  it  ;  sprinkle  in  some  salt,  and  pour 
over  only  one  cup  and  a  half  of  boiling  water  ;  cover  close,  set 
on  the  stove,  and  shake  the  pan  often  to  prevent  the  spinach  from 
burning.  When  done,  beat  it  up  with  a  little  butter  and  pepper. 
It  should  come  to  the  table  quite  dry.  It  looks  nicely  when 
pressed  into  a  mold  in  the  form  of  a  leaf.  Serve  with  poached 
eggs. 

To  Boil  Cabbage.  ŌĆö  Wash  very  thoroughly  in  cold  water; 
look  between  the  leaves,  where  insects  and  worms  are  very  often 
secreted  ;  then  put  into  boiling  water,  some  say  without  any 
salt  ;  we  prefer  to  add  salt,  when  half  done  ;  boil  quickly  till 
tender  ;  then  take  it  out  with  a  skimmer  into  a  colander  or  sieve, 
and  drain  free  from  all  water.  Season  with  a  little  butter  and 
pepper. 


452  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

To  Boil  Cabbage  with  Meat.  ŌĆö  Select  small,  white,  firm 
heads  ;  cut  in  ([uarters  ;  examine  carefully  ;  then  lay  th".  quarters 
an  hour  in  cold  salted  water,  to  drive  out  any  insects  that  may 
have  escaped  your  observation.  Skim  all  the  fat  from  the  pot 
in  which  the  pork  or  beef  is  boiling,  and  put  in  the  cabbage  while 
the  water  boils  ;  cook  till  tender  ;  then  drain,  and  serve  as  whole 
and  compact  as  possible.  If  the  meat  is  to  be  used  cold,  take  out 
some  of  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiling,  and  put  in  another  kettle 
and  boil  the  cabbage  in  that,  as  it  gives  a  disagreeable  taste  to 
meat  when  cold. 

Another  Way.  ŌĆö  After  washing  and  examining  the  cabbage, 
put  it  into  a  kettle  of  fast-boiling  water,  into  which  you 
have  put  some  salt  and  a  small  bit  of  soda.  Press  it  down 
into  the  water,  then  let  it  boil  quickly  eight  minutes  ;  have  on 
hand  another  kettle  of  fast-boiling  water  prepared  as  above, 
and  transfer  the  cabbage  to  that  ;  press  it  down  into  the  water 
and  let  it  boil  twelve  minutes  more  ;  meanwhile  throw  away 
the  first  water  and  prepare  more  like  it ;  after  the  second  boil- 
ing remove  the  cabbage  once  more  to  another  water,  and  boil 
ten  minutes  if  the  cabbage  is  small,  twenty  if  large  ;  then  take 
it  up  in  a  colander,  lay  a  plate  over,  and  drain  well  ;  dish  on 
toasted  bread  that  has  been  dipped  in  drawn  butter,  and  pour  a 
little  over  the  cabbage. 

Cabbage  like  Cauliflower.  ŌĆö  Chop  a  good,  solid  head  of  cab- 
bage fine,  as  if  for  cold-slaw.  Put  it  into  boiling  water.  Boil 
till  tender  ;  then  drain  quite  free  from  water  ;  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter  ;  add  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  simmer  a 
few  minutes.     Send  to  table  hot. 

Cauliflower.  ŌĆö  Soak  the  head  two  hours  in  salt  and  water, 
and  boil  until  tender  in  milk  and  water,  if  you  have  plenty  of 
milk,  if  not,  boiling  water  will  answer.  Serve  whole  with  drawn 
butter,  or  cut  it  np  and  season  richly  with  butter,  and  a  little 
pepper  and  salt.  The  first  way  is  the  most  stylish,  the  last  the 
most  palatable.     In  either  case  it  must  be  well  drained. 

Hot- Slaw.  ŌĆö  Cut  a  firm  white  head  of  cabbage  in  thin  shreds  ; 
put  it  into  boiling  water  ;  cook  till  tender  ;  only  just  cover  with 
water,  so  that  when  done  there  may  be  hardly  any  remaining. 
Just  before  dishing,  add  to  one  good-sized  head  half  a  teacupful 


CAKE.  453 

of  good  cider  vinegar  and  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg, 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  your  taste. 

Cold-Slaw.  ŌĆö  Shave  a  firm  head  of  cabbage  fine  ;  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of  sugar,  and  a  little  pepper  into  a  small 
cup  of  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage. 

To  Cook  Onions.  ŌĆö  The  strong,  disagreeable  taste  and  smell 
from  onions  may  be  in  a  large  degree  removed  by  leaving  them 
to  soak  in  cold  salt  and  water  an  hour  after  the  outside  skin  has 
been  removed  ;  then  boil  them  in  milk  and  water  till  thoroughly 
tender  ;  lay  into  a  deep  dish,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
pour  over  them  drawn  butter. 

CAKE. 

GENERAL   RULES. 

First  examine  the  range  or  stove.  See  that  the  ashes  are 
shaken  out,  and  sufficient  coal  added  to  keep  the  oven  in  working 
order  till  your  cake  is  put  together  and  baked  ;  for  fuel  should 
never  be  added  while  bread  or  cake  is  baking.  See  if  the  damp- 
ers are  all  right,  and  ovens  at  the  proper  heat,  ŌĆö  a  slow,  even  heat 
for  rich  cake,  a  quick  heat  for  plain  cake. 

The  range  being  in  proper  condition,  next  collect  all  the  in- 
gredients to  be  used.     Line  the  tins  with  Inittered  paper. 

Sift  the  flour,  then  weigh  or  measure  it  and  the  sugar,  butter, 
fruit,  and  milk.  Baking-powder  or  cream  of  tartar  should  always 
be  sifted  in  with  the  flour,  which  should  then  be  covered  up,  and 
set  near  the  fire  to  dry  while  you  are  getting  other  articles  ready. 
If  Jewell's  prejxired  floiu-  is  used,  no  salt,  soda,  or  cream  of  tartar 
is  needed  for  anything  ;  and  those  ingredients  may  be  omitted  in 
using  the  following  receipts. 

Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  cold  water. 

Put  the  eggs  in  cold  water.  They  will  beat  easier  and  lighter. 
Beat  yelks  and  whites  separately. 

Never  mix  sweet  and  sour  milk. 

When  fruit  is  to  be  used,  it  is  always  better  to  pick  it  over,  slice 
or  stone,  and,  if  need  be,  wash  and  dry  it,  the  evening  before,  cov- 
ering it  over  closely,  to  keep  from  the  heat  and  air. 

Everything  being  now  in  readiness,  put  the  butter  into  a  deep 


454  CHOICE   FAMILY    RECEIPTS. 

earthen  dish.  Stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  soft,  then  add 
sugar,  and  beat  until  light  and  white,  like  thick  cream.  Next  add 
the  yelks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  a  little  of  the  flour,  and  very 
gradually  the  milk,  beating  the  batter  steadily  ;  then  add  spices, 
and  the  whites,  well  beaten  to  a  very  stiff  foam,  with  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour,  alternately.  Now  beat  the  batter  till  all  is 
thoroughly  combined,  and  you  will  be  sure  of  light,  fine-grained 
cake. 

Fruit  should  be  rolled  in  floiu-  and  added  the  last  thing,  or 
add  it  in  alternate  layers  with  the  batter,  as  you  fill  it  into  the 
pans.  Use  some  of  the  flour  weighed  out  for  the  cake  to  dredge 
the  fruit. 

So  far  it  is  well ;  but  quite  as  much  depends  on  baking,  as  in 
the  preparation  of  the  cake,  and  if  you  have  not  the  most  trusty, 
reliable  servants,  your  watch  and  care  is  not  ended. 

Unless  a  raised  cake,  it  should  be  put  into  the  oven  as  soon  as 
you  h.ive  put  it  into  the  pans,  opening  the  oven  door,  after  the 
cake  is  in,  as  seldom  as  consistent  with  proper  oversight,  as  a 
draught  of  cold  air  passing  through  the  oven  will  tend  to  make  the 
cake  heavy. 

If  the  oven  is  too  hot,  cover  the  cake  for  a  while  with  a  piece 
of  brown  paper. 

Whenever  you  buy  a  broom,  break  off  a  few  of  the  splints  ;  tie 
them  up  and  lay  away  safely  to  use  in  trying  cake.  It  is  not 
pleasant  to  think  of  using  a  splint  from  a  broom  that  has  been 
used  in  sweeping  a  kitchen  floor,  or  any  other  floor,  however 
nicely  kept.  Try  the  cake  with  one  of  these  clean  splints,  or  a 
small  knitting-needle.  If  it  comes  out  quite  free  from  any  par- 
ticle of  batter,  the  cake  is  done. 

Cake  keeps  fresher  to  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  pan  in  which 
it  was  baked  ;  but  if  necessary  to  remove  it,  place  it  on  the  top  of 
a  sieve  until  quite  cold,  when  it  may  be  frosted  if  desirable,  and 
put  into  a  large  stone  pot,  or  cake-safe,  and  covered  with  clean, 
linen. 

Steam  stale  cake,  and  eat  with  a  nice  hot  sauce,  and  you  have 
a  very  good  pudding. 

Loaf  Cake.  ŌĆö  Two  cups  sugar  ;  two  of  milk  ;  two  of  flour  ; 
one  of  yeast  ;  make  into  a  sponge  overnight.     In  the  morning,  if 


CAKE.  455 

this  sponge  is  light,  beat  together  two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter, 
and  lour  eggs  ;  add  these  to  the  sponge  with  enough  more  flour 
to  make  it  quite  stiff ;  add  since  and  fruit  to  suit  the  taste  ;  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  stoned  rasins,  well  floured,  and  half  a  cup  of 
citron  cut  thin  and  in  small  pieces,  liaise  till  light,  and  bake 
in  an  even  oven. 

Mrs.  Breedley's  Fruit  Cake.  ŌĆö  Five  eggs  ;  five  cups  of  floui- ; 
Uvo  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar ;  one  and  a  half  cups  butter,  and 
two  cups  sour  milk  ;  two  cups  raisins.  Beat  sugar  and  butter  to 
a  cream  ;  add  the  egg-yelks  and  whites,  beaten  separately  ;  then 
three  cups  of  the  floiu"  and  the  milk  ;  beat  well  and  then  add  one 
gill  wine,  cloves  and  cinnamon  to  suit  your  taste,  and  the  re- 
mainder of  the  floui- ;  and  last,  one  teaspoonfid  soda  dissolved  in 
a  very  little  water.     Bake  as  soon  as  put  together. 

Spices,  in  all  receipts,  may  be  increased  or  diminished  to  suit 
the  taste.  One  nutmeg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  other  spices  will  be 
a  medium  allowance  ;  cloves  are  generally  undesirable,  except  in 
fruit  cake. 

Rosie's  Raised  Cake.  ŌĆö  Three  cups  bread  dough,  two  cups 
sugai',  one  cup  butter,  or  half-cup  bvitter  and  half-cup  lard,  two 
eggs,  nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste,  one  wineglass  of  wine,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one  pound  of  raisins  chopped  or  stoned  ;  beat 
all  thoroughly  together,  and  let  it  stand  to  rise  till  quite  light. 
Always  roll  raisins  in  plenty  of  flour  before  putting  into  the 
dough,  to  prevent  their  sinking. 

Fruit  Cake.  ŌĆö  Tliree  cups  sugar,  half  a  pound  butter,  four  cups 
flour,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  nutmegs,  two 
pounds  of  raisins  stoned,  one  pound  Zante  currants,  or  half  a 
pound  of  preserved  orange-peel  sliced  very  thin  and  cut  fine,  one 
teiis]ioonful  soda.     Bake  tAvo  hours  and  a  half. 

Farmer's  Fruit  Cake.  ŌĆö  Three  cupfuls  of  sour  dried-apples 
soaked  overnight  in  warm  water.  In  the  morning  drain  oft'  the 
water,  chop  not  too  fine,  leaving  the  apple  about  as  large  as  raisins, 
then  simmer  in  two  cupfuls  of  molasses  two  hours  or  rmtil  quite 
done,  that  is,  until  the  apple  has  absorbed  all  the  molasses  ;  one 
and  a  half  cupfuls  of  butter  well  beaten  ;  one  of  sugar,  four  eggs, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  of  cinna- 
mon, one  of  nutmeg,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  one  wine- 


456  CHOICE   FAMILY    RECEIPTS. 

gLass  of  wine,  four  and  a  half  teacup fuls  of  flour  ;  add  one  cup 
raisins  or  currants,  if  you  please,  but  roll  in  flour  before  putting 
them  to  other  ingredients  ;  beat  all  together  thoroughly  ;  bake 
carefully  in  a  well-heated  oven.  This  is  excellent  to  our  taste,  far 
better  than  the  richer  kind,  and  more  easily  digested. 

Whortleberry  Cake.  ŌĆö  Prepare  the  batter  just  like  Sally 
Lunn,  then  stir  in  one  coffee-cup  of  whortleberries  rolled  in  flour 
the  last  thing  before  putting  into  the  oven.  If  the  berries  are  not 
well  floured,  they  will  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  cake  and  be 
worthless.  Stir  them  in  gently  and  quickly.  Bake  half  an  hour. 
Very  good  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

Olic  Cake.  ŌĆö  Three  pounds  of  flour,  five  eggs,  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  milk,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  and  one  penny's  worth  of  bakers'  yeast ;  beat  and  knead  well 
and  put  to  rise  ;  knead  over  every  time  it  rises,  ŌĆö  say  three  times 
a  day  for  three  days,  ŌĆö  using  as  little  flour  as  possible  at  each 
kneading.  After  the  first  rising,  keep  it  in  the  cellar  or  a  cool 
place.  When  ready  for  use,  break  off  small  bits,  flatten  with  the 
hand,  and  lay  a  bit  of  citron  on  them  ;  then  roll  into  a  ball  and 
fry  in  boiling  lard,  like  doughnuts.  Roll  in  sugar  after  they  are 
fried.  This  is  a  Dutch  receipt,  and,  if  properly  made,  very  fine. 
"We  have  never  fried  these  cakes,  but  often  make  a  large  bowlful 
in  cold  weather,  and  keep  it  on  the  ice  a  fortnight  at  a  time,  using 
as  we  want  it,  kneading  it  every  day  an  hour  before  tea,  and 
using  it  for  biscuits  instead  of  cake.  Let  it  stand  a  short  time 
to  rise,  then  bake.     They  are  very  light  and  tender. 

Nice  little  Cakes.  ŌĆö  Whites  of  six  eggs  left  from  Spanish 
cream,  three  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  sugar,  one  small 
cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  and  two  of  cream 
tartar.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Queen  Charlotte's  Cake.  ŌĆö  One  pound  of  flour,  one  of  sugar, 
one  of  raisins  (Sultana  or  stoneless  raisins  are  the  best),  one  hi^lf- 
pound  butter,  four  eggs,  one  gill  brandy,  one  gill  Avine,  one  gill 
cream,  half  a  nutmeg,  half-teaspoonful  each  cloves  and  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  one  loaf. 

Lemon  Cake.  ŌĆö  Two  cups  of  flour,  two  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  six 
table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  four  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar  sifted  with  the  flour,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.    Beat  all 


CAKE.  457 

well  together,  and  bake  in  two  loaves.  For  the  jelly  to  use  with 
it,  take  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  six  eggs,  the  rind  of  three  lemons  grated,  and  their  juice. 
Beat  the  sugar,  butter,  and  eggs  thoroughly  together,  and  set  in  a 
dish  of  hot  water  until  heated,  then  add  the  grated  lemon  and 
juice  ;  stir  till  thick  enough  and  quite  smooth,  then  split  the 
cake  and  put  tins  jelly  in  while  warm.     It  is  very  delicious. 

Molasses  Drop  Cake.  ŌĆö  One  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  of 
butter  or  lard,  half  a  cup  of  water,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat  well  together, 
and  dr<:)p  with  a  spoon  on  a  buttered  pan  or  in  muffin-rings.  Bake 
quickly. 

Chicago  Fruit  Cake.  ŌĆö  One  and  one  fourth  pound  flour,  six 
eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  half-pint  of  milk,  three  fourths  pound  but- 
ter, one  pound  raisins,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda,  half  a  gill  molasses, 
three  teaspoonfuls  mace,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon, 
one  of  allspice,  one  of  nutmeg.  Beat  the  yelks  and  whites  of  eggs 
separately,  and  beat  the  cake  well  before  baking. 

Cider  Cake.  ŌĆö  Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  one 
and  a  quarter  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  raisins  (stoned),  five 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  (only  even  full),  a  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  cinnamon,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  and  one  pint  of  cider.  Put 
in  the  soda  the  last  thing. 

Snow-flake  Cake.  ŌĆö  Half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
four  of  flour,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  table- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  or,  if  you  use 
prepared  flour,  use  no  soda  or  cream  of  tartar.  Bake  the  cake 
in  shallow  jelly-cake  pans  ;  while  baking,  grate  two  fresh  cocoa- 
nuts  carefully,  and  spread  over  each  cake,  as  it  comes  from  the 
oven,  a  thin  frosting,  and  then  sprinkle  thickly  with  the  grated 
nut.  Three  layers  of  cake  make  one  cake.  This  receipt  will 
make  two  loaves. 

Cocoa-nut  Cake.  ŌĆö  One  coff'ee-cup  butter,  two  and  a  half  sug- 
ar, four  and  a  half  of  flour,  whites  of  nine  eggs  beaten  stiff,  half 
a  cup  of  milk,  two  cocoa-nuts  grated,  one  small  teaspoonful  soda, 
two  of  cream  of  tartar.  Save  out  a  saucer  of  grated  cocoa-nut  to 
sprinkle  on  the  frosting  after  the  cake  is  baked. 

Macaroons.  ŌĆö  One  pound  of  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one 


458  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

quarter-pound  Ijlunched  and  pounded  almonds.  Sprinkle  sugar 
on  paper  and  dioj)  in  little  round  cakes. 

Delicate  Cake.  ŌĆö  When  making  cocoa-nut  custard  (see  Pud- 
dings, etc.),  use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  as  follows  :  One  cup  white 
sugar,  five  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  whites  of  six  eggs,  one  teacup 
of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  "  prepared  flour,"  or  to  the  same  quan- 
tity of  co:umon  flour,  add  one  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two 
of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  in  the  flour.  Flavor  with  orange,  lemon, 
or  vanilla. 

Sponge  Cake  (very  good).  ŌĆö  Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
of  flour,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  water,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
yeast-powder  ;  flavor  with  lemon  and  nutmeg. 

Pineapple  Cake.  ŌĆö  Make  a  cake  as  for  jelly-cake  ;  bake  it  in 
three  or  four  jelly-pans  ;  grate  a  large  ripe  pineapple  in  one  bowl 
and  a  cocoa-nut  in  another.  When  the  cakes  are  done,  spread  over 
one  a  layer  of  pineapple,  and  over  that  a  layer  of  cocoa-nut  ;  then 
place  the  second  cake  over  this,  and  on  that  put  another  layer  of 
pineapple  and  cocoa-nut,  and  so  on  till  the  last ;  cover  that  with 
the  pineapple  and  grated  cocoa-nut,  and  then  beat  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  to  a  stiff  meringue  ;  lay  it  over  the  top,  and  place  the 
cake  in  the  oven  just  a  few  minutes  to  stiffen. 

Molasses  Cup  Cake  (very  good).  ŌĆö  One  cup  each,  sugar,  mo- 
lasses, and  milk,  three  cups  flour,  half  a  cup  butter,  three  eggs, 
one  table-spoonful  ginger,  one  small  even  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Pour  the  milk  to  the  flour,  beat  but- 
ter and  sugar  to  a  cream  and  add  to  it  the  salt  and  ginger,  then 
the  well-beaten  yelks  of  the  eggs  ;  beat  the  soda  into  the  molasses, 
and  when  it  foams  pour  in  with  the  rest,  adding  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  stiff,  the  last  thing. 

Loaf  Cake.  ŌĆö  One  and  a  half  pints  of  well-raised  sponge,  two 
and  a  half  cups  sugar,  two  thirds  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  yelks 
and  whites  beaten  separately,  half  a  pound  stoned  raisins  well 
rolled  in  flour  to  prevent  their  sinking  to  the  bottom,  half-tea- 
spoonful  each  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  nutmeg.  Beat  into  the 
sponge  a  half-teaspoonful  soda  before  adding  these  ingredients,  then 
stir  all  together  thoroughly  ;  let  it  stand  till  quite  light,  then  stir 
up  from  the  bottom  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  prevent  raisms  from 
settling,  and  bake  slowly.  If  the  sponge  is  verj^  thin,  add  a  little 
more  flour. 


CAKE.  459 

Walnut  Cake.  ŌĆö  One  pound  of  flour,  one  of  sugar,  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  pounds  raisms  stoned,  the 
meats  from  two  quarts  of  wahiuts,  one  nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  cmnamon,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  one  wineglassful  of  cider  or 
wine,  six  eggs,  whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda.  Pick  over  the  walnut-meats  to  see  that  no  bits  of  shells 
remain  ;  pour  boiling  water  over  to  take  off  the  skin,  drain  and 
rub  dry,  then  mix  with  raisins,  flour  well,  and  stir  into  the  batter. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  but  not  scorching  hot. 

Loaf  Cake.  ŌĆö  Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  of  milk,  two  of  flour,  one 
of  yeast.  Make  into  sponge  overnight.  In  the  morning  rub  to- 
gether two  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  and  four  eggs.  Flour  to 
make  quite  stift' ;  one  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  ;  if  wished, 
one  pound  of  fruit.     Raise  till  light,  and  bake  in  an  even  oven. 

Western  Cake.  ŌĆö  Four  cups  of  flour,  two  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
one  of  butter,  one  of  new  milk,  and  five  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda.     S])ice  to  taste. 

Snowball  Cake.  ŌĆö  One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar 
sifted  with  the  flour  ;  beat  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together  ; 
add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  foam  ;  then  the  flour,  and 
milk  and  soda  the  last. 

Molasses  Cake.  ŌĆö  Half  a  cup  of  molasses,  half-cup  sugar,  half- 
cup  sour  milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  egg,  two  cups 
flour,  spices,  and  a  few  chopped  raisins.  Spice  with  a  little  gin- 
ger, cloves,  and  cinnamon. 

Corn-Starch  Cake.  ŌĆö  One  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  sugar  ; 
beat  to  a  white  foam  ;  add  four  eggs  beaten  quite  stiff",  one  cup- 
ful of  corn-starch,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  prepared 
flour,  and  flavor  Avith  one  teaspoonful  of  bitter  almonds.  If  you 
have  no  prepared  flour,  sift  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  with 
the  flour,  and  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tea- 
spoonful of  milk,  the  last  thing  ;  beat  thoroughly  after  the  soda 
is  added,  and  bake  immediately. 

Moss  Cake.  ŌĆö  Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter, 
three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  with  the  flour,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda. 


460  CHOICE   FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

Jenny  Lind  Cake.  ŌĆö  Half-cup  butter,  one  teacup  of  milk,  two 
table-spoonfuls  cream,  two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  cream  tartar,  half-teaspoonful  soda,  and  four  cups  flour.  Any 
spice  that  is  palatable. 

Sugar  Cookies.  ŌĆö  One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs, 
five  cups  flour,  two  table-spoonfuls  sour  milk  (or  sweet  milk,  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  added),  one  small  teaspoonful 
of  soda  ;  spice  to  suit  your  taste.     Bake  quickly. 

Cookies.  ŌĆö  Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sweet 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
just  flour  enough  to  roll ;  rub  butter  and  sugar  into  the  dry  flour, 
as  if  for  pastry,  and  then  wet  up,  using  no  eggs  ;  spice  to  suit  the 
taste  ;  cream  of  tartar  to  be  sifted  in  with  the  flour,  soda  added 
the  last.  Be  careful  not  to  use  too  much  flour,  more  can  easily 
be  added  if  not  stifi"  enough. 

Another  Way.  ŌĆö  Three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar  a  trifle 
heaped,  half  cup  of  butter,  one  third  cup  half  cream  and  half  sweet 
milk,  two  eggs,  half-teaspoonful  soda,  ŌĆö  if  you  don't  use  prepared 
flour  ;  spice  with  cinnamon.  Work  butter  and  sugar  to  a  smooth 
white  cream,  then  add  yelks  of  eggs,  beat  well,  and  then  add 
milk  and  soda  ;  whites  beaten  stiff,  added  the  last  thing  before 
the  flour  ;  make  as  thin  as  they  can  be  rolled,  putting  the  hands 
to  the  dough  as  little  as  possible.  Much  handling  makes  them 
hard  and  tough. 

Molasses  Gingerbread.  ŌĆö  Half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a 
cupful  molasses,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  three 
cupfuls  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  ,soda.  Beat  the  sugar,  butter,  and  ginger  together  ;  then 
add  the  milk,  then  the  flour  ;  beat  the  soda  into  the  molasses, 
and  as  soon  as  it  foams,  beat  it  in  with  the  other  ingredients. 
Better  beat  all  together  with  the  hand.  Bake  it  either  in  a 
shallow  23an  or  m  little  cups.  This  is  very  nice,  if  a  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  and  a  teacvipful  of 
stoned  raisins  are  added,  and  the  whole  baked  in  a  loaf. 

Plain  Gingerbread.  ŌĆö  One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  of  molasses, 
half  a  cupful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  raisins 
or  currants,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  and  one  of  yeast  powder, 
with  flour  enough  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  cup-cake. 


riES,   PUDDINGS,   AND   DESSERTS.  461 

Excellent  Ginger-Snaps.  ŌĆö  Boil  together  one  pint  molasses, 
one  cup  butter,  one  table-spoonful  of  ginger.  Let  them  only  boil 
up  once,  then  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  roll  two  small  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda  perfectly  smooth,  and  beat  into  the  molasses  ; 
while  foaming  pour  it  upon  just  as  little  flour  as  will  make  it  pos- 
sible to  roll  out  very  thin.     Bake  (|uick. 

In  measuring  by  spoonfuls,  be  careful  that  the  spoon  is  even 
full,  not  heaped.    Careless  measurement  spoils  many  good  dishes. 

PIES,  PUDDINGS,  AND  DESSERTS. 

Pastry.  ŌĆö  One  quart  flour,  half-pound  butter  ;  mix  half  the 
flour  with,  ice-cold  water,  stifle  enough  to  roll  ;  put  it  on  a  well- 
floured  pasteboard,  sprinkle  flour  over  and  roll  half  an  inch  thick. 
Divide  the  butter  into  three  parts  ;  shave  one  of  the  three  por- 
tions quite  thin  and  put  it  lightly  over  the  paste,  shake  one  third 
of  the  dry  flour  over  it,  fold  the  four  ends  inward,  then  double 
the  sheet  together  and  beat  it  with  the  rolling-pin  till  it  is  about 
half  an  inch  thick  ;  shave  a  second  portion  of  the  butter  and  put 
on  the  paste,  flour,  fold  up  and  beat  out  as  at  first.  Repeat  this 
process  for  the  third  and  last  time,  using  up  all  the  butter  and 
flour,  and  put  the  paste  on  the  ice  for  a  half-hour.  Theif  cut  off 
a  piece  large  enough  to  cover  a  plate,  roll  out,  ŌĆö  always  rolling 
I'rom  you,  ŌĆö  and  handle  as  little  as  possible  ;  cover  the  plate,  trim 
it  by  passing  the  knife  round  the  plate,  cutting  iqnoards.  (This 
should  be  borne  in  mind  with  all  pastry.  If  cut  round  the  edge 
of  the  plate  upwards,  it  will  be  light  ;  if  downwards,  it  will  cling 
to  the  plate  and  be  heavy.)  Cut  a  strip  an  inch  wide  and  lay 
round  the  edge,  fill  in  the  fruit  or  whatever  the  contents  are  to 
be,  and  if  it  is  to  have  an  upper  crust  roll  out,  put  it  on  and  trim 
as  above  directed.  Prick  the  top  to  let  out  ste/im  and  prevent 
the  waste  of  the  juice. 

Puff  Paste.  ŌĆö  Half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  lard, 
one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  flour  ;  wet  half  the  flour  to  a  paste  ; 
mix  the  other  half  with  the  shortening,  chopping  it  fine,  butdo 
not  use  your  hand ;  stir  together  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon. 
Roll  the  paste  out  on  the  board  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
and  add  one  third  of  the  mixed  flour  and  shortening  ;  fold  the 
four  ends  over  it,  and  beat  out  with  the  rolling-pin  till  again  a 


462  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

quarter  of  an  incli  thick  ;  spread  over  it  one  third  more  of  the 
shortening  ;  fold  over  the  ends  ;  beat  out  thin  again  ;  add  the 
remainder  of  the  shortening  ;  beat,  roll  out,  and  use. 

Potato  Pastry  for  Meat  Pies.  ŌĆö  Six  good-sized  potatoes, 
boiled  and  mashed  mealy  and  white,  one  teacup  of  sweet  cream, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  it  stay  together 
and  roll  out.  Work  and  handle  as  Little  as  possible,  and  roll 
thicker  than  common  pastry. 

Pumpkin  Pies.  ŌĆö  Cut  the  pumpkin  into  small  pieces  ;  take 
out  the  seeds  and  inside,  but  do  not  pare  it.  It  must  be  a  well- 
grown  and  thoroughly  ripened  pumpkin,  and  not  watery.  Put 
the  pieces  in  a  saucepan,  with  only  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water,  not 
more  than  four  ;  cover  close  and  let  it  cook  gently,  so  as  not 
to  scorch,  until  the  water  has  all  evaporated,  and  the  pumpkin 
has  cooked  quite  dry  and  of  a  rich,  dark  orange  color.  While 
hot  sift  it  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Season  only  as  much  as  you 
are  needing  for  the  day.  For  one  large  pie,  one  egg,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  molasses,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  condensed  milk,  and 
enough  of  new  milk  to  make  it  as  thin  as  you  wish,  or  if  you 
have  it,  half  milk  and  half  cream,  instead  of  condensed  milk  ; 
sugar  and  spice  to  suit  the  taste.  Ginger  and  cinnamon  are  very 
nice.     Bake  to  a  clear,  rich  brown,  but  do  not  blister  or  scorch. 

Dried- Apple  Pies.  ŌĆö  Wash  the  apples  in  several  waters,  then 
put  them  into  an  earthen  dish  or  stone  pot,  and  pour  on  rather 
more  water  than  will  cover  them  ;  for  if  the  apples  are  good,  they 
will  absorb  a  good  deal  of  water  and  become  twice  as  large  by 
soaking.  Never  soak  or  cook  fruit  in  tin  or  iron.  A  few  hours 
should  soak  the  apples  sufficiently  for  cooking.  If  soaked  over- 
night they  become  insipid.  Put  them  into  an  earthen  pipkin  or 
porcelain  kettle  and  cook  in  the  water  they  are  soaked  in.  If 
you  like  it,  cut  up  a  little  dried  orange  or  lemon  peel  and  stew 
with  the  apples.  Some  use  dried  plums  with  apples,  but  they 
make  it  too  sharp  for  our  taste.  Let  them  cook  slowly,  till  very 
tender.  When  they  rise  up  in  the  kettle,  2^ress  them  down  gently, 
but  never  stir  them.  When  perfectly  tender,  before  taking  from 
the  fire,  stir  in  a  little  butter  ŌĆö  about  one  table-spoonful  to  a  quart 
of  cooked  apples  ŌĆö  and  sugar  to  suit  your  taste.  Season  with 
very  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  if  you  do  not  use  the  orange 


riES,   PUDDINGS,   AND   DESSERTS.  463 

or  lemon  peel,  ŌĆö  nothing  else  is  needed  if  yoii  do.  Bake  with  an 
upper  and  iinder  crust,  but  do  not  make  the  pie  very  thick  with 
apples.     Half  an  inch  deep  is  sufficient. 

Dried  plums  and  peaches  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way, 
but  require  no  spice. 

Pies  of  Canned  Fruit.  ŌĆö  Canned  pears,  peaches,  and  quinces 
usually  will  bear  scalding  in  their  own  liquor  before  putting  them 
in  the  pie-plate.  When  tender,  skim  out  and  lay  on  a  dish  to 
cool.  Then  add  to  the  liquor  enough  sugar  to  make  a  syrup, 
more  or  less  rich,  according  to  the  taste  of  those  who  are  to  eat 
them.  When  both  fruit  and  liquor  are  cold,  if  the  pears,  peaches, 
or  quinces  are  in  halves,  cut  them  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  lay  into  the  pie-plate  ;  pour  over  as  much  of  the  syrup 
as  it  will  hold,  having  fij'st  put  on  the  under  crust  and  laid  an 
edge  of  crust  around  it.  Fill  the  plate  not  quite  an  inch  thick. 
This  is  more  economical,  and,  to  our  taste,  much  nicer  than  to 
use  the  fruit  in  large  pieces.  Cut  a  few  small  bits  of  butter  (half 
a  table-spoonful  in  all)  and  lay  the  spice  over ;  put  on  the  upper 
crust  and  bake  a  rich  broŌ¢Āw^a,  but  be  careful  not  to  scorch  the 
crust,  as  a  little  scorch  spoils  the  best  of  pastry. 

Plums  must  not  be  scalded  before  baking,  as  they  come  to  j)ieces 
very  easily,  but  prepare  the  liquor  in  which  they  are  canned  the 
same  as  for  pears,  peaches,  and  quinces. 

Mince  Pie.  ŌĆö  Put  a  large-sized  tongue  into  boiling  water,  with 
a  little  salt  and  pepper.  A  fresh  tongue  is  better  than  one  smoked 
and  dried.  Boil  slowly  till  tender,  then  take  out  and  dip  for  a 
minute  in  cold  water  ;  then  peel  it,  beginning  at  the  tip,  as  it 
peels  easier.  Cut  off  all  the  gristly  parts  and  chop  fine.  Pare  and 
chop  enough  of  the  best  flavored  sour  apples  to  fill  a  three-puit 
bowl  when  chopped.  The  finer  the  meat  and  apples  are  chopped 
the  better  the  pies  will  be.  Pick  over  and  rub  clean  one  pound 
Sultana,  or  stoneless  raisins,  one  pound  Malaga,  or  bloom  raisins, 
stoned  and  chopped,  and  one  pound  whole  raisins.  Slice  thin 
half  a  pound  citron  and  half  a  pound  candied  orange  peel ;  chop 
and  pick  clean  from  skinny  pieces  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
suet  ;  add  a  table-spoonful  salt,  five  grated  nutmegs,  one  and  a 
half  table-spoonfuls  ground  cloves,  the  same  of  cinnamon,  a  pound 
of  sugar,  half  a  pint  maple  syrup,  one  pint  cider,  one  of  Madeira 


464  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

Ō¢Āwine,  one  of  brandy.  Syrups  from  preserves,  or  small  portions 
of  jelly  of  any  kind  left  over,  and  not  sufficient  to  be  put  on  the 
table  again,  are  a  great  improvement  to  mince-meat  for  pies,  beside 
iinding  an  economical  way  of  use.  Put  all  these  ingredients  into 
a  porcelain  kettle,  and  set  over  the  range  to  scald,  not  boil,  one 
hour,  stii'ring  all  the  time  ;  then  pack  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover 
closely,  ready  for  use. 

Rice  Pie.  ŌĆö  Take  cold  rice,  cooked  with  milk,  add  sufficient 
cream  to  make  quite  thin,  mash  it  with  a  wooden  or  silver  spoon 
till  free  from  lumps.  Beat  up  four  eggs  very  light,  ŌĆö  yelks  and 
whites  separately,  ŌĆö  sweeten  the  rice  to  suit  your  taste,  and  pour 
in  the  egg, ŌĆö the  whites  last;  stir  well,  grate  a  little  nutmeg 
over  all  ;  cover  a  deep  custard  or  pumpkin  pie-plate  with  pastry, 
pour  in  the  rice,  and  bake,  but  not  long  enough  to  make  the 
custard  watery. 

Apple  Puffs.  ŌĆö  Peel  and  core  as  many  sour  apples  as  v/ill  be 
needed,  simmer  with  a  little  water  till  tender,  then  add  a  half- 
pound  of  sugar  to  a  pomid  of  apples,  let  it  simmer  till  the  apples 
become  a  kind  of  marmalade  ;  take  it  up,  and  when  cold  put  it 
into  puff  paste  and  bake  quickly  ;  when  done  ice  it,  return  to  the 
oven  just  long  enough  to  turn  the  icing  golden. 

Marlborough  Pie.  ŌĆö  One  cup  stewed  apples,  sifted  ;  one  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  cream  or  milk  ;  one  fourth  cup  butter  if  cream  is 
used,  if  milk,  one  third  ;  half  a  gill  wine,  three  well-beaten  eggs, 
whites  whisked  separately,  and  a  little  nutmeg  ;  beat  sugar,  butter, 
and  apple  together,  then  add  the  wine,  then  milk  or  cream,  nut- 
meg and  yelks,  adding  the  whites  the  last  thing.  No  upper 
crust. 

Chess  Pie.  ŌĆö  Four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  of  cream,  two 
thirds  of  a  cup  butter,  one  table-spoonful  flour  ;  flavor  with  nut- 
meg.    When  a  delicate  brown,  try  with  a  spoon  as  for  a  custard. 

English  Christmas  Plum-Pudding.  ŌĆö  One  pound  of  clean, 
dry  currants,  half  a  pound  of  the  best  raisins,  stoned  ;  mix  these 
with  one  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  and 
one  pound  and  a  half  of  finely  shred  suet  ;  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sifted  sugar,  one  grated  nutmeg,  a  drachm  of  cinnamon, 
two  drachms  of  cloves,  haK  a  dozen  almonds,  pounded,  and  an 
ounce  each  of  candied  orange  and  lemon,  sliced  thin  ;  mix  all 


riES,   PUDDINGS,   AND   DESSERTS.  465 

these  materials  thoroughly  together  in  a  bowl,  with  a  glass  of 
brandy  and  one  of  sherry,  then  beat  six  eggs  very  light,  and  slow- 
ly stir  them  in  till  all  is  well  blended  ;  cover  the  bowl,  and  let 
this  mixture  stand  for  twelve  hours  ;  then  pour  it  into  a  pudding- 
bag,  and  tie  it  not  very  tight,  leaving  room  for  it  to  swell ;  or  fill 
a  pudding-mold  not  quite  two  thirds  full,  lay  a  clean  cloth  over 
the  top,  and  shut  the  cover  over  tightly  to  exclude  all  water  ;  put 
the  bag  or  mold  into  boiling  water  ;  keep  it  covered,  and  keep 
it  boiling  all  the  time,  for  six  hours.  Serve  with  sugar  sifted 
over,  and  wine  sauce.  Brandy  is  usually  sent  in  with  a  Christmas 
pudding,  to  be  poured  over  the  whole  pudding,  or  over  each  slice, 
then  lighted,  and  served  Avhile  burning. 

A  Family  Christmas  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Beat  up  four  eggs  very 
light  (which  always  means  yelks  and  whites  beaten  separately)  ; 
add  to  the  yelks,  after  Ijeating,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonfid  each  of 
ginger,  nutmeg,  grated  lemon  peel,  and  salt ;  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
half  a  pound  of  well-cleaned  and  dried  currants,  one  pound  of 
flour,  half  a  pound  of  well-shred  and  chopped  suet ;  beat  this  all 
up  thoroughly,  adding  the  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Wine  or 
brandy,  or  both,  may  be  added,  if  one  has  no  scruples  about 
using  them  in  cooking  ;  but  the  pudding  will  be  good  without 
this  addition.  Tie  it  in  a  cloth  or  pudding-bag,  or  put  it  into  a 
mold,  and  boil  six  hours.     Serve  with  any  good  sauce. 

In  boiling  puddings  of  all  kinds,  the  cloth  should  be  dipped 
in  hot  water  before  the  batter  is  put  in,  or  the  mold  be  well 
buttered.  Any  of  these  Christmas  puddings  may  be  kept  for  a 
month  after  boiling,  if  the  cloth  in  which  they  are  boiled  be  re- 
placed by  a  clean  one,  and  the  pudding  be  hung  up  to  the  ceiling 
of  a  kitchen,  or  in  a  warm  store-room.  When  wanted,  they 
will  require  one  hour's  boiling  to  heat  them  through,  as  all  such 
puddings  should  be  sent  to  the  table  hot. 

A  Simple  Christmas  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Six  ounces  of  finely 
chopped  suet,  six  ounces  of  Malaga  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped  ; 
eight  ounces  of  well-cleaned  and  dried  currants,  three  ounces  of 
fine  bread  crumbs,  three  ounces  of  flour,  three  well-beaten  eggs, 
the  sixth  part  of  a  nutmeg,  grated  ;  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
cinnamon,  cloves,  and  mace  ;  four  ounces  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  half  a  pint  of  milk  ;  one  ounce  of  candied  orange  or 
20*  D  D 


466  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

lemon  peel,  and  the  same  of  citron,  all  sliced  thin.  Beat  all  to- 
gether thoroughly  ;  pour  into  a  pudding-bag  or  mold  ;  put  into 
boiling  water,  and  keep  it  boiling  six  hours.  Serve  with  sauce  to 
suit  your  taste. 

Bread  Pudding.  ŌĆö  One  quart  fine  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  molasses,  half-pound  suet  chopped 
fine,  one  coffee-cup  raisins,  half  a  rind  of  preserv^ed  orange-peel 
or  citron  cut  thin  and  fine,  a  very  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon, 
two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one  small  teaspoonful  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in  milk  enough  to  make  it  thick  as 
pound-cake,  beating  all  thoroughly  together  ;  put  it  into  a  but- 
tered pudding-mold,  and  boil  three  hours.  Be  careful  to  keep 
the  water  boiling  all  the  time. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Two  cupfuls  of  sour  milk,  two 
spoonfuls  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  of  salt,  half  a 
cupful  of  sifted  flour,  mixed  with  enough  corn-meal  to  make  a 
batter  not  very  stiff ;  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  suet,  from  which 
all  the  stringy  substance  has  been  removed  ;  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
chopped  sweet  apples,  or  huckleberries,  dried  or  fresh,  as  you 
have  on  hand.     Boil  from  two  and  a  half  to  three  hours. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Boil  one  quart  of  milk,  and  pour 
over  a  pint  of  sifted  Indian  meal  ;  stir  it  well  till  the  meal  is 
thoroughly  wet  and  scalded.  Mix  three  table-spoonfuls  of  wheat 
flour  with  one  pint  of  milk,  and  beat  to  a  smooth  batter,  entii'ely 
free  from  Imnps  ;  then  pour  it  in.  with  the  Indian  batter,  and 
beat  well  together.  When  the  whole  is  lukewarm,  beat  three 
eggs  and  three  table- spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  mix  with  the  batter, 
together  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  molasses  ;  add  two  teaspoon- 
fuls of  salt,  two  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon,"  or  ginger,  as  you  prefer  ; 
two  great  spoonfuls  of  suet  chopped  fine,  or  the  same  of  melted 
butter  ;  let  it  bake  a  few  minutes,  and  then  add  half  a  pound  of 
raisins  and  half  a  pint  of  milk,  which  the  raisins  will  soak  up. 
Bake  till  the  pudding  is  of  a  rich  color,  but  do  not  let  it  whey. 

Palmyra,  or  Date  Pudding.  ŌĆö  One  pound  of  fresh  dates, 
chopped  fine  and  free  from  stones  ;  one  pound  of  suet,  chopped 
fine  ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  and  a  pound  of  flour. 
Mix  all  well  together  ;  add  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  make 
into  a  soft  dough  with  milk.     Beat  three  eggs  very  stiff",  yelks  and 


PIES,   PUDDINGS,   AND   DESSERTS.  467 

whites  separately,  and  add  the  hist  thing.  Boil  in  a  pudding-dish 
three  hours,  or  bake  slowly  two  hours.     Eat  with  liquid  sauce. 

Sponge-Cake  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Make  a  batter  as  for  good  sponge- 
cake. Bake  on  a  liat,  square  pan,  so  us  to  be  an  inch  thick, 
when  done.  When  cold,  cut  it  into  pieces  about  three  inches 
square  ;  slice  and  butter  them,  and  lay  each  slice  together  as 
it  was  before  you  split  it.  Make  a  custard  with  four  eggs  and 
a  quart  of  new  milk,  flavor  and  sweeten  as  you  like  it.  Almond 
in  the  cake,  and  lemon  or  vanilla  in  the  custard,  are  very  good. 
Put  the  buttered  slices  of  cake  in  a  baking  dish,  so  that  when  the 
custard  is  poured  over  them,  the  dish  will  be  full.  Bake  half  an 
hour  ;  eat  with  or  without  sauce  as  you  prefer. 

Steamed  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Two  eggs,  two  teacupfuls  of  sour  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  it 
quite  thick,  or  it  will  be  heavy.  Beat  this  smooth.  Add  cher- 
ries, raspberries,  cun-ants,  or  any  dried  fruit  you  may  have. 
Steam  two  hours,  taking  care  that  the  water  is  kept  over  the 
pudding  or  bag  all  the  time,  and  that  it  does  not  stop  boiling. 
Eat  with  cream  and  sugar,  hard  sauce,  or  any  liquid  sauce  you 
may  prefer. 

A"  Excellent  Pudding.  ŌĆö  One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
milk,  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff  ;  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  a 
little  clove  and  cinnamon,  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  each  ;  one 
cup  of  raisins,  stoned  ;  haK  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  three  cups 
of  prepared  flour.  Bake  quick.  Eat  with  liquid  or  hard  sauce, 
according  to  taste.  We  think  this  would  also  be  excellent 
steamed  or  boiled. 

Apple  and  Tapioca  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Put  a  teacup  of  tajiioca 
into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  water  overnight.  Before  break- 
fast the  next  morning  set  it  where  it  will  become  quite  warm, 
but  not  hot  enough  to  cook.  After  breakfast  pare  six  good-sized 
sour  apples,  or  eight  if  not  very  large  ;  quarter  them  and  steam 
them  in  a  dish  till  tender.  Lay  them  into  the  pudding-dish,  stir 
a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar  into  the  soaked  tapioca,  add  a  teacup 
of  water  and  an  even  teaspoonful  of  salt,  stir  together  and  pour 
over  the  apple,  slice  a  lemon  very  thin  and  lay  over  the  top,  bake 
slowly  three  hours  ;  eat  with  butter,  with  wine  sauce,  or  hard 
sauce,  as  you  prefer. 


468  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

Sweet-Apple  Pudding.  ŌĆö  One  pint  of  scalded  milk,  half  a 
pint  of  Indian  meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  six  sweet  apples 
cut  in  small  pieces,  one  small  teacupful  of  finely  chopped  suet, 
two  great  spoonfuls  of  molasses,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  nut- 
meg, or  cinnamon,  ŌĆö  whichever  is  most  desirable,  ŌĆö  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  soda.  Beat  all  well  together, 
put  into  a  pndding-mold,  and  boil  two  hours. 

Fig  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Half  a  pound  of  the  best  figs,  washed  and 
chopped  fine,  two  teacupfuls  of  grated  bread,  half  a  cupful  of 
sweet  cream,  haK  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  one  cupful  of  milk. 
Mix  the  bread  and  cream,  add  the  figs,  then  the  sugar,  and  lastly 
tlie  milk.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  mold,  and  boil  three  hours. 
Eat  -with  -wine  or  hard  sauce. 

Barley  Cream  for  Invalids.  ŌĆö  Boil  two  pounds  of  lean 
veal  in  one  quart  of  water,  add  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pearl 
barley,  and  boil  till  it  can  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  It  should 
be  about  as  thick  as  cream.     Add  a  little  salt. 

Apple  Float.  ŌĆö  One  pint  stewed  and  well-mashed  apples  ; 
whites  of  three  eggs,  and  four  large  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  beaten 
until  stiff ;  then  add  the  apples,  and  beat  all  together  till  stiff 
enough  to  stand  alone.  Fill  a  deep  dish  with  rich  cream,  or 
boiled  soft  custard,  and  pile  the  float  on  top.  This  is  excellent 
with  other  fruits  in  place  of  the  apples. 

Sago  Ptidding.  ŌĆö  One  dozen  tart  apples,  one  and  a  half  cup 
of  sago,  ŌĆö  soak  the  sago  in  water  till  soft ;  peel  and  core  the  apples 
and  place  in  a  dish,  fill  the  apples  with  sugar,  a  very  little  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg,  pour  the  sago  over  and  bake  until  the  apples 
are  cooked.     Eat  with  wine  sauce  or  hard  sauce. 

Cocoa-nut  Custard.  ŌĆö  One  pound  grated  cocoa-nut,  one  pint 
of  rich  milk,  and  six  ounces  of  sugar.  Beat  the  yelks  of  six  eggs, 
and  stir  them  into  the  milk  with  the  nut  and  sugar.  Put  into  a 
farina-kettle,  or  into  a  small  pail  which  you  can  set  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water  ;  stir  all  the  time  till  very  smooth  and  thick  ;  as 
soon  as  it  comes  to  a  hard  boil,  take  off  and  pour  into  cups. 

Apple  Pudding.  ŌĆö  One  pint  of  stewed  and  sifted  apples, 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  whites  and  yelks  separate,  sugar  enough 
to  make  the  apple  quite  sweet,  one  cup  of  stoned  raisins  rolled 
in  flour  ;  half-pint  each  of  milk  and  cream  or  condensed  milk, 
and  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg. 


PIES,    PUDDINGS,   AND   DESSERTS.  469 

Sauce.  ŌĆö  One  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter,  rubbed  to 
a  cream  ;  the  white  of  one  egg  well  beaten,  a  little  luitmeg  or 
orange,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  stir  in  two  great  spoonfuls  of 
Ijoiling  water  ;  if  preferred,  add  half  a  gill  of  wine  instead  of 
orange  juice. 

Nice  Cheap  Pudding.  ŌĆö  One  quart  of  milk,  four  table-spoon- 
fuls of  Hour,  four  eggs,  six  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  nutmeg. 
Steam  three  fourths  of  an  hour. 

Orange  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Peel  five  oranges  ;  cut  in  thin  slices  ; 
take  out  all  the  seeds.  Pour  over  them  a  large  cupful  of  white 
sugar.  Bring  a  pint  of  rich  milk  to  a  boil  in  a  farina-kettle  ;  wet 
a  table-spoonful  of  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  milk  ;  beat  the  yelks 
of  three  eggs  and  pour  them  into  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  all 
the  time.  When  it  thickens  a  little,  pour  over  the  fruit.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  foam ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  white  sugar 
and  pour  over  the  top  ;  set  it  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  harden, 
but  do  not  bro^v^l  it.  Eaten  hot  or  cold  for  dinner  or  tea.  Sub- 
stitute iDerries  or  peaches  for  oranges,  if  you  prefer. 

Custard  without  Eggs.  ŌĆö  To  one  quart  of  new  milk  one 
teaspoonful  of  rennet  wine,  or  a  small  piece  of  rennet,  a  little 
lemon,  nutmeg,  or  vanilla,  or  any  spice  you  prefer,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  milk.  If  too  sweet,  the  milk 
will  not  set  firmly  or  quickly.  Stir  all  together,  and  set  by  the 
stove  or  near  the  fire  ;  cover  closely.  It  should  begin  to  stiffen 
in  an  hour.  If  it  does  not,  add  more  wine,  or  rennet.  When 
firm,  before  the  whey  separates,  take  out  the  piece  of  rennet  if  the 
skin  was  used,  and  set  on  ice  till  dimier.  To  be  eaten  with  sugar 
and  rich  cream.  Nutmeg  is  always  an  improvement,  even  if 
lemon  or  vanilla  is  used. 

The  wine  rennet  is  nicer  than  simply  the  skin,  and  it  is  a  good 
idea  to  keep  a  bottle  of  -wine  with  a  piece  of  rennet  in  always  on 
hand,  as  it  is  often  desirable  to  have  it  ready. 

A  Quick  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Bring  a  quart  of  milk  to  the  boiling 
point  in  a  farina-kettle  or  a  pail  set  into  boiling  water  ;  add  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  rice  or  wheat  flour, 
wet  smooth  with  cold  milk.  Stir  this  in  as  soon  as  the  milk  boils. 
Stir  it  a  few  minutes  till  perfectly  smooth,  and  let  it  remain  in 
the  outside  vessel  of  boiling  water  half  an  hour.     Be  sure  and 


470  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

keep  the  water  in  receiver  or  saucepan  boiling  hard  around  the 
inner  one  all  the  time.  Eat  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  thick  cream 
and  sugar. 

This  is  very  healthful,  especially  in  the  summer,  and  in- 
valuable for  invalids,  or  children  suffering  with  summer  com- 
plaint. When  used  as  a  remedy  or  preventive,  it  should  boil 
longer,  say  one  hour. 

Rice  Meringue.  ŌĆö  Pick  over  one  teacup  of  rice,  wash  clean, 
and  boil  in  water  until  it  is  soft.  When  done,  drain  all  the  water 
from  it.  Let  it  get  cool  and  then  add  one  quart  of  new  milk,  the 
well-beaten  yelks  of  three  eggs,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  white 
sugar,  and  a  little  nutmeg  ;  pour  into  a  baking-dish  and  bake  half 
an  hour.  Let  it  get  cold ;  then  beat  the  whites  stiff,  add  two 
great  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  and  spread 
it  over  the  pudding,  and  slightly  brown  it  in  the  oven.  Be  care- 
ful not  to  let  it  scorch. 

Sago  Pudding.  ŌĆö  One  dozen  tart  apples,  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  sago,  soak  the  sago  in  water  till  soft ;  peel  and  core  the  apples 
and  place  in  a  dish  ;  fill  the  apples  with  sugar,  a  very  Little  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg,  pour  the  sago  over,  and  bake  until  the  apples 
are  cooked.     Eat  with  wine  or  hard  sauce. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Honeycomb.  ŌĆö  Sweeten  the  juice  of 
two  oranges  or  lemons.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  into  a  quart 
of  rich  cream,  and  whisk  it ;  as  the  froth  rises,  skim  off  and  lay 
on  the  lemon  or  orange  juice.  Whisk  until  you  have  the  whole 
frothed  and  laid  on  the  jiiice.  It  makes  a  pretty  and  agreeable 
dish.  It  should  be  prepared  the  day  before  needed,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place. 

Apple  Snow.  ŌĆö  Stew  fine  flavored,  sour  apples  ;  sweeten  and 
flavor  to  suit  your  taste  ;  strain,  and  to  one  quart  of  sifted  apples 
allow  the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Whisk  them  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  then 
put  the  apple  and  whites  together,  and  continue  to  whip  until 
they  are  so  stiff  you  can  turn  the  dish  upside  down  without  the 
mass  falling  off.     Eat  with  cream  or  with  bread  and  milk. 

Snow  Pudding.  ŌĆö  Dissolve  one  box  Cox's  gelatine  in  one 
pint  of  boiling  water  ;  add  two  cups  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  ;  strain  when  nearly  cold  ;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  them  to  the  gelatine  ;  beat  all  well  together 


PIES,   PUDDINGS,   AND  DESSERTS.  471 

and  put  into  a  moki  to  shape  it  and  let  it  get  cold.  Then  take 
the  yelks  of  three  eggs,  beat  and  add  to  a  pint  oi'  rich  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  corn-starch,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  boil  in  a  I'arina- 
kettle.  When  you  wish  to  serve,  empty  the  mold  of  gelatine, 
etc.  into  the  dish,  and  pour  the  custard  over.  In  boiling  the 
custard,  be  careful  not  to  cook  it  too  much  ;  stir  all  the  time,  and 
the  moment  it  begins  to  set  or  thicken  remove  it.  If  cooked  too 
long  it  will  whey. 

Cocoa-nut  Pudding  or  Pies.  ŌĆö  Break  the  nut,  save  the 
milk  ;  take  out  the  meat  and  grate  it  very  fine  ;  take  equal 
weight  of  sugar  and  cocoa-nut,  and  half  the  qviantity  of  butter  ; 
rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  take  five  eggs,  whites  and 
yelks  beaten  sepai'ately  very  stiff ;  one  cup  of  milk  and  the 
milk  of  the  cocoa-nut,  and  a  little  grated  lemon.  Line  the  dish 
with  a  nice  paste,  put  in  the  pudding,  and  bake  one  hour.  Cover 
the  rim  with  paper  to  prevent  burning.  This  receipt  will  answer 
equally  as  well  for  pies  as  for  pudding.     It  will  make  three  pies. 

Bohemian  Cream.  ŌĆö  Four  ounces  of  any  fruit  you  choose, 
which  has  been  steamed  soft  and  sweetened.  Pass  the  fruit 
through  a  sieve,  and  add  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  melted  or  dis- 
solved isinglass  to  a  half-pint  of  fruit ;  mix  it  well  together ; 
then  whip  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  and  add  the  fruit  and  isinglass 
gradually  to  it.  Then  pour  it  all  into  a  mold  ;  set  it  on  ice  or 
in  a  cool  place,  and  when  hardened  or  set,  dip  the  mold  a 
moment  in  warm  water,  and  turn  it  out  on  a  dish,  ready  for  the 
table. 

Spanish  Cream.  ŌĆö  Dissolve  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  Cox's 
gelatine  in  one  half-pint  of  water  ;  take  one  pint  milk,  one  pint 
cream,  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  five  eggs,  five  table-spoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Sift  all  well  together.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon,  or 
orange,  or  any  flavor  most  agreeable.  Put  into  a  farina-kettle 
and  boil  till  it  just  begins  to  turn.  If  done  too  much  it  will  be 
watery,  or  wheyey,  which  spoils  it.  When  thickened  like  a  smooth 
rich  cream,  stir  in  the  dissolved  gelatine,  pour  into  molds,  and 
set  in  the  refrigerator  or  a  very  cool  place  to  harden.  Beat  up 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  pour  over  the  top  of  the  cream  after 
you  have  removed  it  from  the  mold  to  the  glass  dish,  for  the 
table. 


472  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

Rennet  "Wine.  ŌĆö  Buy  a  dried  rennet  in  market,  or  get  a  fresh 
one  from  the  butcher's  and  prepare  and  dry  it  yourself.  When 
well  dried  and  cured,  cut  it  in  pieces  of  one  or  two  inches  ;  put 
it  into  a  large  bottle  and  fill  up  with  Madeira  wine  ;  for  a  good- 
sized  rennet  add  from  three  pints  to  two  c[uarts  of  wine.  It  will 
keep  for  a  year  or  two. 

Cold  Custard.  ŌĆö  Warm  one  quart  of  milk  as  warm  as  when 
just  milked  ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  suit  your  taste  ;  stir  into  it  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  rennet  wine,  and  turn  it  at  once  into  the  dish 
in  which  it  is  to  be  sent  to  table. 

Baked  Apples.  ŌĆö  Core  some  Baldwin  pippins,  or  any  other 
fine-flavored  tart  apple.  Sprinkle  sugar  on  the  bottom  of  a  deep 
dish,  and  set  the  apples  into  the  dish  with  two  or  three  on  top. 
Fill  the  holes  with  sugar  ;  cover  the  lower  apples  with  water,  and 
bake  one  hour.  A  little  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  or  lemon  will  be  an 
improvement  for  those  who  like  fruit  seasoned. 

Apple  Snovr.  ŌĆö  Stew  some  fine-flavored  sour  apples  tender, 
sweeten  to  taste  ;  strain  them  through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  and 
break  into  one  pint  of  strained  apples  the  white  of  an  egg  ;  whisk 
the  apple  and  egg  very  briskly,  till  quite  stiff,  and  it  will  be  as 
white  as  snow  ;  eaten  with  a  nice  boiled  custard,  it  makes  a  very 
desirable  dessert. 

Season  with  a  very  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  add  a  little 
butter,  and  bake  in  good  pastry,  and  you  will  have  a  very  good 
apple  pie. 

PRESEEVES  AND   JELLIES. 

To  Can  Peaches.  ŌĆö  We  find  the  folio-wing  mode  of  canning 
peaches  in  "  Tilton's  Journal  of  Horticulture,"  published  in  Bos- 
ton. That  journal  is  always  so  reliable,  that  we  have  no  hesita- 
tion in  giving  these  directions  to  our  readers  :  "  Take  large  ripe 
peaches,  Ō¢Ā ŌĆö  not  over-ripe,  ŌĆö  halve  and  pare  neatly  and  lay  on  a 
large  meat-dish.  To  a  three-peck  basket  of  fruit  allow  four 
pounds  of  sifted  sugar  ;  sprinkle  it  over  the  fruit  as  you  lay  it  in 
the  dish  ;  when  done  set  it  in  a  cool  place  overnight ;  the  next 
morning  fit  each  piece,  one  by  one,  nicely  into  the  jar,  draining 
them  from  the  juice.  When  the  jars  are  all  filled  put  them  close 
together  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  putting  a  double  towel  or  some- 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES.  473 

thing  of  the  kind  under  them,  in  the  hnttoni  of  the  kettle,  to 
prevent  their  cracking,  and  set  over  the  fire.  Let  the  water  heat 
gradually  till  it  boils,  while  you  prepare  the  syrup  from  the  juice 
that  has  been  formed  from  the  peaches  and  sugar  overnight, 
then  fill  up  the  jars  with  it,  being  careful  to  let  the  bubbles  of 
air  escape  ;  they  will  be  seen  rising  to  the  top  ;  if  any  are  in  the 
lower  part  of  the  jar  they  will  rush  up  on  the  insertion  of  a  fork. 
When  all  are  full  begin  to  seal  up,  and  have  a  large  pan  of  hot 
water  standing  near  to  put  the  jars  in  as  fast  as  sealed,  where  they 
can  cool  off  gradually. 

"Where  one  has  glass  jars  or  bottles,  without  tight-fitting 
covers,  prepare  a  cement  of  one  poimd  rosin  to  two  pounds  of 
mutton-suet,  melted  together  and  well  mixed  ;  have  pieces  of 
strong  muslin  cut  large  enough  to  tie  over  the  mouths  of  the  jars 
or  bottles  ;  lay  the  muslin  on  a  board  and  with  a  spoon  spread 
over  a  thick  coating  of  cement  ;  take  tip  the  muslin  quickly,  be- 
fore it  has  time  to  cool,  and  put  it  on  the  jar  with  the  cement 
side  downward,  pressing  it  closely  over  the  sides.  If  the  muslin 
is  not  very  thick  it  is  well  to  spread  more  cement  on  top  of  the 
first  cover,  and  lay  over  that  a  second  piece  of  muslin,  then  tie 
down  with  twine  and  finish  with  a  good  coat  of  cement  over  all. 
This  is  a  good  way  to  use  up  old  jars  whose  covers  have  been 
broken  or  lost." 

Mixed  Marmalade.  ŌĆö  Apples  or  pears  mixed  with  quince 
make  very  pleasant  marmalade.  They  should  be  pared  and  cut 
in  small  pieces  ;  just  cover  them  with  water,  or  boil  the  cores 
and  skins  first  and  use  the  liquor  to  boil  the  fruit  in  ;  stew  the 
fruit  till  it  can  be  mashed  with  a  wooden  spoon  ;  when  well 
mashed  add  the  sugar,  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit  (of  course  the  fruit  is  weighed  before  beginning  to 
cook)  ;  let  it  cook  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours,  the  longer  it 
cooks  the  more  solid  it  will  be  when  cold.  Pear,  quince,  and 
apple  marmalade  are  made  in  the  same  way.  With  pears,  if 
very  mild,  many  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemons,  to  suit 
the  taste,  to  the  sugar. 

Jellies.  ŌĆö  In  making  jellies  of  apricots,  quinces,  peaches,  ajiples, 
or  plums,  peel,  remove  the  stones  or  cores,  cut  in  pieces,  cover 
with  water  and  boil  gently  till  well  cooked  ;  then  strain  the  juice 


474  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

gently  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  add  a  half-pint  of  sugar  to  a  pint 
of  juice  (for  berries  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice)  ;  boil 
till  it  ropes  from  the  spoon,  or  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
In  making  raspberry  jelly,  use  one  third  currants  and  two  thirds 
raspberries. 

Peach  Jelly  ŌĆö  Cut  peaches  in  half,  peel  them,  and  take  out 
the  pits  from  the  stones  ;  make  a  clear  syrup  of  a  pound  of  white 
sugar  to  half  a  teacup  of  water.  Whien  made  and  boiling  hot 
put  in  the  peaches  and  part  of  th.e  pits,  ŌĆö  too  many  pits  give  a 
bitter  flavor,  ^ ŌĆö boil  gently  ten  minutes,  then  put  half  of  the 
peaches  on  a  platter,  and  boil  the  other  half  ten  minutes 
longer  ;  mix  with  the  liquor  of  the  peaches  the  strained  juice  of 
three  lemons  or  oranges,  and  one  ounce  of  isinglass  or  Cox's  gel- 
atine, that  has  been  first  dissolved  and  strained  ;  fill  the  molds 
half  full  of  jelly,  let  it  stand  till  set,  then  add  the  rest  of  the 
peaches,  and  fill  the  molds  with  jelly.  One  dozen  peaches  will 
make  a  good-sized  moldful.  It  is  a  very  handsome  table  orna- 
ment, and  very  palatable. 

Quince  Jelly.  ŌĆö  Boil  the  quince  peelings,  cores,  and  such  of 
the  fruit  as  you  do  not  wish  to  can  till  soft,  in  just  enough  water 
to  cover  ;  then  put  into  jelly-bags  wrung  out  of  hot  water  ;  hang 
the  bags  by  strings  on  a  stick  laid  across  two  chairs  or  benches, 
with  a  dish  underneath,  and  let  it  drain  without  squeezing  till 
the  juice  is  all  run  out  ;  then  to  every  pint  of  juice  weigh  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  put  it  into  a  large  platter  or  a  deep 
dish,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  get  hot,  but  not  browned,  while  th.e 
juice  in  the  preserving-kettle  is  brought  to  a  boil  ;  when  it  be- 
gins to  boil  skim  clear,  and  then  pour  in  the  hot  sugar,  stir  all 
well  together,  skim  clear,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  dip  into  hot 
jelly-glasses. 

To  Preserve  Quinces.  ŌĆö  Select  the  fairest  quinces,  pare,  cut 
in  half,  and  remove  the  core  neatly  ;  then  weigh,  using  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit  ;  boil  the  qvunces  until  tender 
in  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  when  done  take  carefully  up 
on  a  platter.  To  make  your  syrup,  use  half  a  pint  of  the  water 
in  which  the  fruit  was  boiled  to  each  poimd  of  sugar.  When 
skimmed  clear,  boil  the  quinces  in  the  syrup  five  minutes  ;  have 
the  cans  hot,  and  fill  while  the  fruit  and  syrup  are  boiling  hot ; 
seal  each  can,  or  close  the  coati'S  tightly,  as  fast  as  filled. 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES.  475 

Candied  Orange  Peel.  ŌĆö  Cut  the  fruit  into  quarters  length- 
wise, take  out  the  pulp  and  put  the  peels  in  strong  salt  and  water 
for  two  days,  then  take  them  out  and  soak  for  an  hour  in  cold 
water,  after  which  put  them  into  a  preserving-kettle  with  fresh 
cold  water  and  boil  till  the  peels  are  tender,  when  they  should 
be  put  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Make  a  thin,  syrup  of  a  quart  of  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled  and  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  sim- 
mer the  peels  in  it  for  half  an  hour,  when  tliey  will  look  clear  ; 
pour  the  peels  and  syrup  into  a  bowl  together,  to  stand  till  the 
next  day,  when  you  must  make  as  much  syrup  as  will  cover 
them,  of  the  proportion  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water, 
boiling  it  till  it  will  fall  from  the  spoon  in  threads  ;  put  the 
peels  into  this  syrup,  boil  half  an  hour,  then  take  them  out, 
drain  on  a  sieve,  and  as  the  candy  dries  transfer  them  to  a  dish 
to  finish  in  a  warm  place.  When  dry,  store  them  for  use.  This 
receipt  is  useful  for  any  lemon,  orange,  or  citron  peel,  and  per- 
fectly wholesome. 

Apple  and  Quince  Sauce.  ŌĆö  Pare,  quarter,  and  core  one 
peck  of  sweet  apples  and  half  a  peck  of  quinces  ;  then  weigh 
both  together ;  save  all  the  cores  and  peels  that  are  free  from 
specks  or  worms  ;  put  these  into  a  preserving-lc^ttle,  just  cover 
with  water,  and  boil  twenty  minutes  ;  strain  and  ponr  the  liquor 
over  the  quinces,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  boil  till  about  half  done, 
then  add  the  apples  ;  stir  occasionally  to  prevent  its  burning, 
being  careful  to  break  the  pieces  as  little  as  possible.  When 
done  so  that  a  straw  or  knitting-needle  will  pass  easily,  add  half 
a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit,  stir  it  in  gently,  cover 
again  closely,  and  leave  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  to  sim- 
mer a  short  time,  say  twenty  minutes,  till  the  sugar  is  thoroughly 
incorporated  with  the  fruit.  Then  pack  in  stone  pots  and  cover 
closely.  It  is  a  very  excellent  substitute  for  apple-butter,  and  to 
most  tastes  more  palatable. 

Apple  Sauce.  ŌĆö  Take  sweet  cider,  as  soon  as  it  comes  from 
the  cider-press,  before  it  has  passed  through  any  change.  Boil  it 
down  nearly  half ;  then  pare  and  quarter  as  many  of  the  best  sour 
apples  as  you  wish  to  "  do  up  "  ;  cover  them  with  the  cider  when 
boiling  hot,  and  cook  till  well  done  ;  but  not  so  as  to  lose  their 
shape.     Most  of  the  cider  will  be  absorbed  by  the  apples.     What 


476  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

remains  can  be  bottled  for  future  use.  When  done,  put  into  jars, 
and  cover  or  cement. 

Or,  if  only  needed  for  daily  sauce,  let  the  apples  boil  longer, 
stirring  often,  luitil  it  becomes  like  marmalade. 

This  makes  not  only  a  most  delicious  sauce,  but  is  very  health- 
ful, as  all  the  nourishment  of  the  apples  from  which  the  cider  is 
made  is  retained,  and  the  stimulating  or  alcoholic  properties  are 
dispelled  by  boiling  before  fermentation  takes  place,  and  we  lose 
the  sharp,  biting  taste  of  the  old  apidle-lutter  made  from  boiled 
cider. 

Baked  Pears.  ŌĆö  Take  ripe  pears,  juicy  and  of  a  good  flavor, 
ŌĆö  not  ripe  enough  to  be  very  soft.  Wipe  them  clean,  put  them 
into  a  stone  jar,  stems  upward  ;  when  the  bottom  of  the  jar  is 
covered,  sprinkle  over  sugar  (the  nature  of  the  pear  must  de- 
termine the  quantity  of  sugar  needed  ;  some  are  so  sweet  that 
they  require  but  little).  Set  in  another  layer  of  pears  ;  add  more 
sugar,  and  so  on  till  the  jar  is  full.  Put  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
water  for  every  gallon  that  the  jar  contains  ;  cover  the  top  of  the 
jar  with  a  paste  of  simple  flour  and  water,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  two  hours. 

CHEESE. 

Stilton  CJieese  is  one  of  the  richest  kinds.  The  cream  of  one 
day's  milk  is  added  to  the  warm  new  milk  of  the  next.  In  Eng- 
land they  are  made  in  a  deep  hoop  or  vat  containing  from  eight 
to  ten  pounds,  and  are  not  considered  of  proper  age  for  the  table 
till  two  years  old.  Little  blue  spots  through  the  cheese,  not  at 
all  'like  those  on  common  moldy  cheese,  is  the  test  of  ripeness. 
We  have  seen  them  made  in  a  two-quart  hoop.  They  require 
very  careful  handling,  and  are  very  fine  (we  think  more  agree- 
able) at  a  year  old  than  when  left  to  the  age  that  epicures  love 
best  in  cheese. 

The  Cottenham  Cheese  is  a  variety  of  cream  cheese  manufac- 
tured in  Cottenham,  near  Cambridgeshire,  that  is  considered 
superior  to  the  Stilton,  as  the  herbage  upon  which  the  cows  feed 
gives  the  milk  a  peculiar  fragrance. 

The  Parmesan  is  made  in  several  parts'  of  Lombardy.  It  is  quite 
celebrated.     Many  suppose  it  is  made  from  goat's  milk,  but  it  is 


CHEESE.  477 

simply  from  cow's  milk  skimmed.  The  meadows  of  the  Po  are 
noted  for  extremely  rich  herbage,  and  the  peculiarities  of  the 
Parmesan  cheese  are  owing  in  part  to  this,  together  with  the 
mode  of  manufacturing  it.  Half  the  milk  to  be  used  is  allowed 
to  stand  sixteen  hours,  the  other  half  but  six.  It  is  then  heated 
and  coagulated  in  a  boiler,  and  broken  up  fine,  without  removing, 
by  sticks  with  cross-wires  ;  then  scalded  once  more  till  the  curd 
has  separated  from  the  whey  and  become  quite  firm.  It  is  then 
taken  out,  drained,  salted,  and  pressed.  The  best  Parmesan 
cheese  is  kept  four  years  before  cutting. 

The  Cheddar  is  similar  to  the  Parmesan  ;  but  very  little  of  the 
best  quality  is  now  made,  and  that  which  is  generally  imported 
for  it  is  inferior. 

The  Duulop  is  one  of  the  best  Scottish  cheeses,  made  only 
of  new  milk,  but  there  is  nothing  peculiar  in  the  mode  of  mak- 
ing it. 

A  peculiar  kind  of  cheese  in  Lincolnshire  is  known  in  London 
as  Neil)  Glieese.  It  is  made  wholly  from  cream,  or  sometimes 
morning's  milk,  warm  from  the  cow,  is  used,  and  the  cream  of 
the  day  before  added  to  it.  It  is  made  quite  thin,  pressed  gently 
two  or  three  times,  then  left  to  cure  for  a  few  days,  when  it  is 
ready  to  be  sent  to  market  for  immediate  use.  It  is  greatly  es- 
teemed for  eating  with  radish  and  salad.  This  cheese  is  easily 
made  in  any  family  when  sufficient  cream  can  be  spared.  Stir  in 
a  table-spoonful  of  rennet  to  a  quart  of  warm  cream  ;  when  the 
curd  is  "  set,"  spread  a  cloth  over  a  sieve  and  lay  the  curd  into  it 
to  stand  for  twenty-four  hours,  when  it  may  be  put  into  a  small 
hoop,  a  wet  cloth  and  a  board  laid  on  top,  to  press  and  drain  it 
a  little,  and  in  a  few  hours  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

The  Swiss  Cheese  has  a  peculiar  flavor  and  richness,  which  can 
be  gained  only  from  the  mountain  pastures.  Some  varieties  are 
mottled  and  highly  flavored  by  the  bruised  leaves  of  the  melilot. 

In  Sage  or  Green  Cheese,  the  curd  is  colored  and  flavored  by 
bruising  the  fresh  green  leaves  of  sage,  marigold,  parsley,  or  corn 
leaves,  and  mixing  with  the  curd.  Among  the  Romans  it  was 
customary  to  flavor  with  thyme  and  other  sweet  herbs. 

Cream  Cheese  is  simply,  cream  dried  sufficiently  to  be  cut  with 
a  knife.     Green  rushes  are  plated  or  sewed  together  and  laid  on 


478  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

the  bottom  of  the  hoop,  which  must  have  holes  all  through  it  for 
the  whey  to  run  off  freely.  On  these  rushes  a  quantity  of  good 
thick  cream  is  laid  ;  another  plait  of  rushes  or  Indian-corn  leaves 
is  put  on  top  of  the  cheese,  so  that  it  may  be  turned  without 
handling.  The  cheese  should  not  be  more  than  an  inch  to  an 
inch  and  a  half  thick.  The  thinner  it  is  made  the  sooner  it 
rij)ens.  It  is  now  kept  in  a  warm  place  for  a  few  days  to  sweat 
or  ripen,  but  it  requires  much  care  and  good  judgment,  as  too 
great  heat  or  cold  is  injurious. 

In  Thuringia  and  Saxony  a  cheese  is  made  of  five  pounds  of  the 
best  potatoes,  half  steamed,  pulverized  and  reduced  to  a  pulp, 
and  well  beaten  and  mixed  into  ten  pounds  of  sweet  curd  ;  a 
little  salt  is  added,  then  it  stands  three  or  four  days,  and  is  again 
thoroughly  broken  up  and  kneaded,  and  then  pressed  into  little 
baskets  for  the  whey  to  drain  off,  then  made  into  balls  and  dried 
in  the  shade.  They  keep  well,  and  improve  with  age,  and  are 
said  to  excel  in  flavor  the  best  cheeses  made  in  Holland. 

We  are  indebted  for  much  information  respecting  foreign 
cheese  to  Webster's  "Encyclopedia  of  Domestic  Economy,"  a 
very  useful  and  valuable  work  for  all  housekeepers. 

Cheese  Straus.  ŌĆö  Quarter  of  a  pound  of  puff  paste,  and  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  good  cheese,  gTated  very  fine,  a  little  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper  mixed  with  it.  Sprinkle  the  cheese,  salt, 
and  pepper  over  the  paste,  and  roll  it  out  two  or  three  times. 
Cut  the  paste  into  narrow  strips  about  five  inches  long  ;  bake  in 
a  slow  oven,  and  serve  very  hot. 

PICKLES. 

Peach  Pickles.  ŌĆö  Select  the  finest  and  fairest  fruit  (we  pre- 
fer Rareripes  or  Honest  Johns  to  Morris  Whites  or  Malacatoons, 
but  that  is  a  matter  of  taste),  weigh  the  peaches,  and  for  every 
pound  of  fruit  take  a  full  pound  or  slightly  heaped  quart  of 
granulated  sugar  ;  put  one  gill  of  good  cider  vinegar  and  half  a 
gill  of  water  to  every  six  pounds  of  sugar  ;  put  the  vinegar  and 
water  into  the  preserving-kettle  first,  then  add  the  sugar,  set 
the  kettle  on  the  back  part  of  the  range  or  stove  where  it  will 
dissolve  gradually.  While  the  sugar  is  melting  prepare  the 
peaches  ;  pour  boiling  water  over  a  few  at  a  time,  and  then  rub 


PICKLES.  47t) 

each  one  carefully  with  a  soft  towel  to  take  off  a  thin  skin  with- 
out disfiguring  the  peach  ;  as  you  peel  throw  them  into  cold 
water  to  prevent  their  turning  black.  When  all  are  peeled,  or  if 
two  are  working  at  them,  as  one  peels  let  the  other  stick  a  clove 
and  two  small  pieces  of  cinnamon,  or  two  or  three  cassia-buds 
into  each  peach,  and  occasionally  put  in  two  cloves,  but  not  often, 
as  too  many  cloves  make  them  bitter.  While  preparing  the  sugar 
over  the  fire,  and  after  waiting  a  suitable  time,  if  you  find  it  will 
not  dissolve  without  more  water,  add  some,  but  only  a  little  at  a 
time,  say  half  a  cupful.  It  is  difficult  to  tell  just  how  nmch 
water  is  needed,  as  some  sugar  melts  more  readily  and  with  less 
water  than  others  ;  for  this  reason  it  is  wise  to  add  the  water  by 
degrees,  as  for  sweet  peach  pickles  it  is  desirable  to  use  just  as 
little  water  as  possible.  Bring  the  syrup  to  a  boil  just  as  soon  as 
possible  after  you  have  all  the  fruit  prepared  ;  skim  as  fast  as  the 
scmn  rises,  and  Avhen  clear  put  in  as  manj^  peaches  as  will  cover 
the  surface  of  the  syrup  without  crowding  and  bruising  ;  let  them 
boil  up  for  three  or  four  minutes,  turn  over  carefully  in  syrup 
that  both  sides  may  be  cooked  evenly,  and  then  remove  into  two- 
quart  stone  jars,  with  nicely  fitting  covers,  taking  care  not  to 
break  the  fruit ;  dip  out  a  cup  or  two  of  syrup  to  each  jar,  cover 
over  and  set  on  the  side  of  the  range  to  keep  hot  for  a  little  while, 
till  you  have  others  filled  to  take  their  place.  Fill  each  jar 
full  of  fruit.  When  all  the  peaches  have  been  thus  cooked  and 
removed  to  jars,  pour  in  as  much  syrup  as  they  will  hold  and 
allow  the  cover  to  fit  closely.  Put  them  aside  for  three  or  four 
days,  then  drain  oft"  all  the  syrup  and  heat  it  again  ;  when  boiling 
hot  fill  up  the  jars  agam,  and  cover  up.  Repeat  the  scalding  again 
in  a  week's  time,  unless  you  find  the  peaches  were  so  ripe  as  to 
have  cooked  enough  to  endanger  their  falling  to  jueces.  In  that 
case  another  scalding  would  injure  them.  To  seal  up  jars,  cut  a 
l)iece  of  old  cotton  or  linen,  large  enough  to  cover  over  the  top 
and  come  half  an  inch  over  the  side,  leaving  it  loose  so  the  cover 
will  fit  in,  dip  the  cloth  in  the  white  of  egg  to  seal  it  down  over 
the  edge,  place  on  the  cover,  then  wet  plaster  of  Paris  quite  soft 
and  spread  over  the  top  and  so  far  over  the  sides  as  to  cover  the 
cloth.  The  plaster  hardens  immediately,  and  you  have  a  solid 
cover  ai  once,  and  air-tight ;  wet  only  as  much  at  a  time  as  will 


480  CHOICE  FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

be  needed  for  one  jar,  as  it  stiffens  so  soon.  Put  on  sufficient  to 
entirely  luiry  the  stone  cover. 

Pickled  Plums.  ŌĆö  Prick  the  plums  with  a  sharp  needle,  else 
they  will  fall  to  pieces  badly  when  you  put  in  hot  syrup  ;  tie  the 
cloves  and  cassia-buds  in  a  cloth,  or  throw  loose  into  the  syrup, 
instead  of  sticking  them  into  the  plums.  Of  course  they  are 
not  thrown  into  boiling  water  like  peaches,  as  it  is  desu-able  to 
preserve  them  as  whole  and  perfect  as  possible.  Except  in  these 
two  particulars,  proceed  as  with  the  peaches. 

For  extra  rich  pickles,  when  boiling  the  sp'up  the  second  time, 
add  one  third  more  sugar  than  was  used  to  make  the  first  syrup. 
This  gives  a  very  rich  fine  flavor  ;  the  small  amount  of  vinegar 
used  at  first  prevents  its  being  too  sweet. 

Some  prefer  peaches,  when  pickled,  quite  sour.  In  that  case  a 
pint  of  vinegar  and  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  every  seven  pounds 
of  peaches  is  the  common  proportion,  with  cloves  and  cassia-buds 
or  cinnamon,  as  in  the  first  receipt;  cassia-buds  are  milder  and 
less  woody  in  taste  than  cinnamon. 

Pears  and  crab-apples,  prepared  like  peaches,  make  a  fine 
pickle. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles.  ŌĆö  Slice  half  a  peck  of  full-grown 
tomatoes  just  ready  to  turn  red.  They  are  more  crisp  if  you  can 
secure  them  after  there  has  been  almost  a  frost,  not  enough  to 
turn  the  vines  black.  Slice  very  thin,  cut  off  the  blossom  and 
stem  ends  and  throw  away.  For  every  gallon  of  sliced  tomatoes 
take  twelve  large  green  peppers,  ŌĆö  the  bell  pepper  is  the  best.  Put 
a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes  into  an  earthern  or  wooden  dish,  then  a 
layer  of  peppers,  sprinkle  over  a  handful  of  salt,  then  more 
tomatoes  and  peppers,  adding  salt  to  each  layer  till  all  are  put  in. 
A  pint  of  salt  is  sufficient  for  a  gallon.  Press  this  down  and 
place  a  weight  on  the  plate  or  wooden  cover.  A  metal  cover  will 
not  answer.  Let  it  stand  till  morning,  when  it  should  be  put  in 
a  sieve  or  hung  up  in  a  strainer  to  drain.  Put  three  quarts  of 
best  cider  vinegar  over  the  fire  to  scald.  Tie  up  in  a  cloth  two 
cups  of  white  mustard  seed,  half  a  cup  of  sliced  horse-radish,  half 
an  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  and  the  same  of  cinnamon  and  allspice, 
and  throw  into  the  vinegar.  When  the  brine  has  all  drained 
from  the  tomatoes,  pack  them  closely  in  a  stone  pot  and  poiir  the 


PICKLES.  481 

boiling  spice  and  vinegar  over  it.  Lay  over  them  a  plate  isniall 
enough  to  fit  inside  tlie  pot,  and  put  a  smooth  clean  stone  on  the 
phite  to  keep  the  pickle  under  the  vinegar.  Let  it  stand  a  few 
days,  and  then  scald  again.  Some  like  part  of  the  spices  sprinkled 
through  the  tomatoes  rather  than  have  all  tied  in  a  bag.  Some 
prefer  the  spices  ground,  and  many  prefer  the  tomatoes  and  peppers 
chopped,  not  very  fine,  rather  than  sliced.  Either  way  they  make 
a  fine  pickle. 

To  Pickle  Green  Tomatoes.  ŌĆö  Slice  thin  in  separate  plates 
green  tomatoes  and  onions  ;  allow  half  a  dozen  of  large  green 
peppers  to  one  peck  of  tomatoes.  Take  a  large  earthen  or  wooden 
bowl  and  lay  in  a  layer  of  tomatoes  and  a  layer  of  onions,  sprinkling 
in  a  table-spoonful  of  salt  to  each  layer  ;  continue  this  until  you 
have  packed  together  all  you  wish  to  pickle.  Then  turn  a  large 
plate  or  clean  dry  board  over  the  tomatoes,  and  put  some  heavy 
weight,  a  stone,  on  top  and  let  it  stand  till  morning  ;  then  drain 
off  all  the  salt  and  juice,  and  pour  over  boiling  vinegar,  strongly 
spiced  with  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  very  little  allspice  and  ginger, 
Avhich  should  be  tied  in  a  little  bag,  and  removed  when  the  vine- 
gar is  poured  over  ;  cover  close  and  let  them  stand  a  week,  when 
the  vinegar  should  be  poured  off,  the  pickles  thoroughly  drained, 
and  cold  vinegar  poured  over  the  tomatoes.  Some  chop  the 
onions  pretty  fine  after  they  are  drained  from  the  salt. 

Pickled  Nasturtiums.  ŌĆö  Gather  the  seed  when  green  and 
not  fully  grown,  and  drop  them  into  vinegar  as  you  pick  them. 
When  you  have  a  sufficient  quantity  scald  the  whole  in  vinegar, 
and  bottle  them  or  soak  them  twelve  hours  in  brine  ;  then  drain 
and  pour  over  boiling  vinegar,  with  whole  black  peppers  and 
allspice  tied  in  a  bag.  They  are  often  used  as  substitutes  for 
capers,  and  the  flowers  and  young  seeds  are  used  in  salads. 

Pickled  Cauliflower.  ŌĆö  Select  the  most  perfect ;  break  ofl" 
the  flowers,  as  they  woxild  naturally  part.  Put  a  layer  of  them 
in  ajar  and  sprinkle  over  salt ;  then  another  layer  of  cauliflower  ; 
then  salt,  and  so  on.  Let  them  soak  two  days  ;  then  wash  off  the 
salt  and  let  them  drain  well  ;  then  pack  in  a  jar  or  bottle,  and 
pour  over  boiling  spiced  vinegar.  In  a  few  days,  if  necessary, 
heat  the  vinegar  again,  and  pour  over  them,  and  cover  or  cork 
closely. 

21  EE 


482  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

Tomato  Pickles.  ŌĆö  Slice  half  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes  very 
thin  ;  sjirinkle  over  them  half  a  jsint  of  salt ;  slice  half  a  dozen 
onions  and  three  large  peppers  full  grown,  but  before  they  have 
turned  red  ;  add  these  to  the  tomatoes  ;  let  them  stand  twenty - 
four  hours,  then  drain  them  perfectly  free  of  the  licjuor  or  brine  ; 
mix  with  them  one  table-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  of  allspice, 
one  of  mustard,  half  a  table-spoonful  of  cloves,  and  the  same  of 
cinnamon  all  finely  powdered  ;  to  this  add  a  quarter-pound  of 
whole  mustard-seed  ;  stir  all  well  together  and  just  cover  with 
good  cider  vinegar.  Boil  this  mixture  mitil  as  thick  as  jam,  stir- 
ring often  to  prevent  its  bui^ning. 

To  Pickle  Onions.  ŌĆö  Choose  all  of  a  size  ;  peel  and  pour  on 
them  boiling  salt  and  water ;  cover  close,  and  when  cold  drain 
the  onions,  and  put  them  into  jars  or  bottles.  For  white  onions, 
fill  up  with  hot  distilled  vinegar ;  for  colored  onions,  use  white 
wine  vinegar  ;  for  both,  add  ginger,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace 
and  whole  pepper.  If  the  onions  are  soaked  in  milk  a  little 
while  after  peeling,  it  will  preserve  their  color. 

Another  way  is  to  soak  the  onions  in  brine  three  or  four  days, 
then  drain  and  pour  on  cold  boiled  vinegar,  with  spices.  This 
will  insure  their  being  crisp. 

To  Pickle  Red  Cabbage.  ŌĆö  Select  the  purple-red  cabbage, 
take  off  the  outside  leaves,  quarter,  and  take  out  the  stalk,  then 
shred  the  cabbage  into  a  colander  or  small  basket,  and  sprinkle 
with  common  salt.  Let  it  remain  a  day  or  two,  then  drain  and 
put  into  jars  ;  fill  up  with  boiling  vinegar,  spiced  with  ginger  and 
black  pepper,  in  the  same  proportions  as  for  the  cucumbers,  and 
add  a  few  slices  of  red  beet-root  ;  some  add  a  few  grains  of 
powdered  cochineal.  If  the  vinegar  is  hoilecl,  and  then  allowed 
to  stand  until  cold  before  pouring  over  the  cabbage,  it  will  better 
insure  its  crispness,  but  will  not  keep  so  well  as  if  put  on  boiling 
hot. 

Cucumber  Pickles.  ŌĆö  The  small  long  kind  are  the  best  for 
pickling,  and  those  but  half  grown  are  nicer  than  the  full  grown. 
Let  them  be  freshly  gathered  ;  pull  off  the  blossom  ;  but  do  not 
rub  them  ;  pour  over  them  a  strong  brine  boiling  hot  ;  cover 
close,  and  let  them  stand  all  night.  The  next  day  put  your  hand 
in  the  jar  or  tub  and  stir  gently,  to  remove  all  sand  ;  drain  on  a 


PICKLES.  483 

sieve,  and  tlaMi  dry  in  a  cloth.  Make  a  pickle  with  the  best 
cider  vinegar,  adding  spice  in  the  following  proportions  :  To  each 
qnart  of  vinegar  put  half  an  ounce  of  whole  bhick  pepper,  the 
same  of  ginger  and  allspice,  and  one  ounce  of  mustard-seed.  If 
the  flavor  is  agi-eeable,  add  four  shalots  and  two  cloves  of  garlic 
to  a  gallon  of  vinegar.  When  this  pickle  boils  up,  throw  in  the 
cucumbers,  and  make  them  boil  as  quickly  as  possible  three  or 
four  minutes.  Put  them  in  a  jar  with  the  boilmg  vinegar,  and 
cover  closely.  When  cold,  put  in  a  sprig  of  dill,  the  seed  down- 
ward, if  you  like  it.  Made  in  this  way  they  will  be  tender,  crisp, 
and  green.  If  the  color  is  not  quite  clear  enough,  pour  off  the 
\"inegar  the  next  day  ;  boil  \\\),  and  ]>our  over  the  cucumbers  ; 
cover  perfectly  tight. 

To  Pickle  small  Cucumbers  and  Gherkins.  ŌĆö  Choose  small 
perfect  gherkins  or  cucumbers  ;  spread  on  platters,  mix  a  small 
bit  of  alum,  piilverized,  with  salt,  and  cover  them  ;  let  them  lie 
in  this  a  week.  Then  drain  them,  put  them  into  a  jar,  cover  with 
boiling  vinegar,  and  cover  it  thick  with  grape-leaves.  Set  them 
near  the  fire.  If  they  do  not  become  tolerably  green  after  an  hour 
or  so,  pour  the  vinegar  into  another  jar,  set  it  on  the  hot  range  or 
hearth  until  too  hot  lo  bear  your  hand  in  it,  but  do  not  let  it  hoil, 
then  pour  again  over  the  pickles,  cover  Avith  fresh  leaves  ;  repeat 
this  till  they  are  as  green  as  you  wish. 

Tomato  Catsup.  ŌĆö  Wash  and  drain  two  bushels  of  fair,  ripe 
tomatoes  ;  cut  out  the  stems  and  any  imperfect  spot  ;  put  the 
fruit  into  a  kettle,  giving  each  one  a  squeeze  to  break  the  skin  as 
you  throw  them  in  (a  brass  kettle,  scoured  j)erfcctlij  bright,  is  the 
best,  as  being  less  hkely  to  burn  on  the  bottom  than  the  porce- 
lain kettle).  Cut  up  twelve  ripe  bell-pejiiiers  and  as  many  onions, 
and  put  with  the  tomatoes.  Set  the  kettle  over  the  fire  and  let 
the  fruit  cook  two  hours,  stirring  often  from  the  bottom  to  pre- 
vent the  tomatoes  sticking  or  burning.  Then  strain  through  a 
wire  sieve,  or  )>etter  still  a  patent  scoop  and  sieve  combined, 
made  of  tin;  with  a  crank  or  handle  to  turn  the  paddle,  which 
easily  presses  the  juice  and  meat  tlirough  the  strainer  at  the  bot- 
tom, leaving  seeds  and  skins  inside.  When  strained,  add  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  salt,  a  quart  of  vinegar,  three  table-spoonfuls  of 
ground  cinnamon,  three  of  black  pepper,  two  ef  cloA^es,  two  of 


484  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

allspice,  two  of  mace,  and  cue  of  ginger.  Boil  slowly  twelve 
hours.  Of  course  it  cannot  be  finished  in  one  day  ;  but  at  night 
must  be  emptied  from  the  kettle  into  large  wooden  or  earthen 
bowls,  covered  over  closely,  and  left  to  stand  till  morning.  The 
brass  kettle  should  be  well  cleaned  and  dried  as  soon  as  emptied, 
that  no  verdigris  may  form  in  or  around  it,  and  to  be  all  ready 
for  use  the  next  day.  In  the  morning  put  the  catsup  up  into  the 
kettle  again,  and  boil  slowly  all  day,  or  till  as  thick  as  rich  cream, 
so  that  no  clear  liq^uid  will  rise  to  the  top.  Stir  often  from  the 
bottom  ;  as  it  thickens  it  will  stick  to  the  bottom  if  not  carefully 
stirred,  and  scorch  very  easily.  That  will  spoil  the  whole.  It  is 
well  to  turn  a  plate  do^vn  on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  it  will  not 
burn  so  readily.  People  differ  so  in  their  ideas  of  seasoning  ŌĆö  some 
like  food  very  fiery  and  highly  seasoned,  while  others  like  very 
little  ŌĆö  that  it  is  not  possible  to  give  the  exact  amount  of  spices. 
We  have  given  a  medium  quantity  which,  by  tasting,  can  be  va- 
ried to  suit  your  own  taste.  When  cooked  sufficiently  the  catsup 
should  be  put  into  strong  bottles  tightly  corked  and  tied  down. 
Very  little  danger  of  bursting  the  bottles  or  forcing  the  cork  out. 
None  that  we  have  ever  tried  have  done  so.  In  hot  weather,  if 
kept  too  damp,  it  may  sour ;  but  we  have  now  some  made  last 
summer  as  good  as  the  new. 

MISCELLANEOUS  HINTS. 
To  Make  Tea.  ŌĆö  There  is  very  little  skill  required  in  making 
tea,  and  yet  A^ery  few  have  it  well  prepared.  It  is  important  that 
the  water  should  be  boiling,  not  simply  scalding  ;  if  it  is  not, 
the  tea  will  be  worthless.  For  English  breakfast  tea  it  is  best  to 
allow  two  heaped  teaspoonfuls  for  each  person.  Either  put  the 
tea  into  a  perfectly  dry  pot,  and  set  it  on  the  corner  of  the  range 
till  heated  through,  before  adding  the  water,  or  fill  the  teapot 
with  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  till  thoroughly  hot  ;  and  then 
etnpty  it  out  and  put  in  the  tea.  This  done,  pour  on  two  cups 
of  boiling,  bubbling  hot  water,  set  it  on  a  range  or  a  trivet  over  a 
spirit  lamp,  and  let  it  boil  two  minutes  ;  then  add  a  teacup  of 
boiling  water  for  every  person,  and  let  it  boil  again  for  three  or 
four  minutes.  Put  into  the  teacups  sugar  and  milk  according  to 
the  taste  of  those  Avho  are  to  use  the  tea,  and  fill  up  with  the  boil- 


MISCELLANEOUS  HINTS.       '  485 

ing  tea.  When  the  cups  are  once  filled,  put  more  boiling  water  to 
the  tea  in  the  same  proportion,  and  again  set  the  pot  on  the  trivet 
to  boil  again  three  or  four  minutes.  The  last  will  be  nearly  if 
not  quite  as  good  as  the  first  drawing,  some  prefer  it  ;  but  in  no 
case  fail  to  have  really  boiling  water. 

In  making  oolong  or  green  teas,  less  tea  is  needed,  and  much 
less  boiling.  In  both  cases  it  is  well  to  put  the  tea  into  a  per- 
fectly dry  teapot,  and  set  it  where  it  will  get  hot  before  the 
water  is  put  in,  or  fill  the  teapot  with  boiling  water,  cover  close 
till  thoroughly  heated,  then  pour  out  the  water  and  put  in  the 
tea  before  the  pot  has  time  to  cool,  and  then  cover  the  tea  with 
boiling  water.  Set  it  where  it  will  simmer,  not  boil,  five  min- 
utes before  using. 

Tlie  tea-tree,  or  .shruli,  commonly  grows  from  three  to  six  feet 
high  ;  but  in  its  wild  or  native  state  it  is  said  to  reach  twenty- 
four  feet.  In  China  it  is  cultivated  in  numerous  small  planta- 
tions. It  resembles  the  myrtle  in  the  form  of  the  leaf  and  gen- 
eral appearance.  The  blossoms  are  not  unlike  those  of  the  wild 
rose,  l)ut  smaller,  white,  and  very  fragrant.  The  blossoms  are 
succeeded  by  soft  green  capsules,  containing  from  one  to  three 
white  seeds.  These  capsules  are  crushed  for  oil,  which  is  in  gen- 
eral use  in  China. 

Substitute  for  Milk  in  Tea  and  Coffee.  ŌĆö  Beat  up  one  egg 
to  every  coft'ee-cupful  of  tea  or  coffee.  Put  it  in  a  cup  and  pour 
over  it  very  gradually  the  tea  or  coffee,  very  hot,  stirring  all  the 
time  to  prevent  the  egg  from  curdling. 

Bread  Crumbs.  ŌĆö  Be  very  careful  that  no  piece  of  bread,  that 
can  be  used,  is  wasted.  Gather  all  waste  or  broken  pieces,  put 
them  in  a  clean  dish,  and  set  into  the  "  heater,"  if  you  have  one  to 
your  stove  or  range  ;  if  not,  into  the  oven  after  the  cooking  for 
the  day  is  done,  lea\ang  the  door  open  that  the  pieces  may  not 
burn.  "When  thoroughly  dried  roll  them  fine  on  a  board,  and 
with  a  rolling-pin  kept  expressly  for  the  purjaose,  as  it  makes  a 
pastry  board  and  pin  rough  to  roll  any  hard  substance.  Sift  the 
crumbs  through  a  colander,  and  keep  them  in  a  stone  pot,  in  a 
dry  place,  covered  closely,  or  put  in  a  linen  bag  and  hung  up  in 
a  cool  place.  They  are  excellent  to  use  in  cooking  many  things, 
as  well  as  for  stuffing,  and  you  cannot  save  too  large  a  quantity. 


486  CHOICE   FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

If  \vt41  dried  and  properly  aired,  tliey  will  keep  a  year,  and  be  as 
sweet  us  when  first  rolled,  and,  aside  from  the  economy,  are  a 
great  convenience. 

GLEANINGS. 

To  Clean  Kid  Gloves.  ŌĆö  Have  ready  a  little  new  milk  in  one 
saucer,  a  piece  of  white  soap  in  another,  and  a  clean  cloth  folded 
two  or  thi-ee  times.  On  the  cloth  spread  out  the  glove  smooth 
and  neat.  Take  a  piece  of  flannel,  dip  it  ui  the  milk,  then  rub 
off  a  good  quantity  of  soap  on  the  wetted  flannel,  and  commence 
to  rub  the  glove  toward  the  fingers,  holding  it  firmly  with  the 
left  hand.  Continue  this  process  until  the  glove,  if  white,  looks 
of  a  dingy  yellow,  though  clean  ;  if  colored,  till  it  looks  dry  and 
spoiled.  Lay  it  to  dry,  and  the  operator  will  soon  be  gratified  to 
see  that  the  old  glove  looks  nearly  new.  It  will  be  soft,  glossy, 
smooth,  and  elastic. 

To  Keep  Grapes.  ŌĆö  The  Chinese  have  a  curious  method  of 
preserving  grapes,  so  as  to  have  them  at  command  during  the  en- 
tire year.  It  consists  in  cutting  a  circular  piece  out  of  a  ripe 
pumpkin  or  gourd,  maldng  an  aperture  large  enough  to  admit  the 
hand.  The  interior  is  next  completely  cleaned  out,  the  ripe 
grapes  are  placed  inside,  and  the  cover  replaced  and  pressed  in 
firmly.  The  pumpkins  are  then  kept  in  a  cool  place,  and  the 
grapes  will  be  found  to  retain  their  freshness  for  a  very  long  time. 

To  Clean  Oil-Cloths.  ŌĆö  Do  not  use  soap,  or  scour  with  a 
brush,  but  wash  with  soft  flannel  and  lukewarm  water  ;  wipe  per- 
fectly dry.  Then  wring  a  clean  cloth  out  of  skimmed  mUk,  and 
wipe  the  oil-cloth  over,  moving  the  cloth  one  way,  straight  across, 
not  round  in  circles  or  waves,  and  finish  with  a  clean,  dry  cloth. 
In  this  way  you  can  keep  the  oil-cloth  looldng  fresh  and  new, 
and  it  will  last  much  longer  than  if  washed  with  soap  and 
scrubbed  with  a  brush. 

Fill  your  Lamps  in  the  Morning.  ŌĆö  Scarcely  a  week  passes 
but  we  read  accounts  of  frightful  accidents  from  kerosene  lamjDS 
exploding  and  killing  or  scarring  for  life  men,  women,  and  chil- 
dren. A  simple  knowledge  of  the  inflammable  nature  of  the 
liquid  will  probably  put  a  stop  to  nearly  all  the  accidents.  As 
the  oil  burns  down  in  the  lamp,  highly  inflammable  gas  gathers 


GLEANINGS.  487 

over  its  surface,  and  as  the  oil  decreases  the  gas  increases.  When 
the  oil  is  nearly  consumed,  a  slight  jar  will  inflame  the  gas,  and 
an  explosion  is  sure  to  follow.  A  bombshell  is  no  more  to  be 
dreaded.  Now,  if  the  lamp  is  not  allowed  to  burn  more  than 
half-way  down,  such  accidents  are  almost  impossible.  Always 
hll  j'oiu"  lamp  every  morning,  and  then  you  need  never  fear  an 
exj)losion. 

Colored  Silk.  ŌĆö  Mix  equal  parts  of  soft  soap,  alcohol,  and 
molasses.  Cover  a  table  with  a  clean  cloth,  spread  the  article  to 
be  cleansed  on  smooth,  and,  holding  firmly  with  one  hand,  sponge 
it  thoroughly  with  this  mixture.  If  the  silk  is  spotted  with 
grease  or  stains,  give  the  spots  an  extra  sponging.  When  the  silk 
has  been  well  sponged,  rinse  in  tepid  water  twice,  and  tiidsh  with 
a  third  rinsing  in  cold  water.  Have  your  irons  hot,  and  iron  the 
silk  immediately  as  it  is  taken  from  the  last  water.  Of  course  if 
a  dress  is  to  be  cleansed,  it  will  be  first  ripped  apart  and  each 
piece  sponged,  rinsed,  and  ironed,  before  the  next  is  touched.  It 
is  a  great  convenience  when  two  pei'sons  can  work  together  ui 
dohig  this,  ŌĆö  one  to  sponge,  while  the  second  rinses  and  ii'ons. 
This  compound  for  cleansing  silk  does  not  sound  inviting,  but 
try  it.  We  have  washed  the  most  delicate  colors,  ŌĆö  blues,  violets, 
etc.,  ŌĆö  and  unless  the  color  is  entirely  taken  out,  or  paint  been 
transferred  to  the  silk,  it  is  surprising  how  like  a  new  silk  the 
dress  can  be  made  to  look.  Cashmeres  or  merinoes  of  the  fuiest 
color  can  be  thus  cleansed  and  made  to  look  like  new  ;  but  they 
shoidd  be  rinsed  in  hot  water. 

To  Remove  Fruit  Stains.  ŌĆö  A  solution  of  chloride  of  soda 
will  remove  peach  and  all  fruit  or  vegetable  stains,  and  is  also  ex- 
cellent in  removing  mildew  ;  but  for  this  it  must  be  applied  sev- 
eral times,  and  exposed  to  the  sun,  while  fruit  can  be  removed 
by  it  instantly.  Of  course  it  can  only  be  used  for  white  cotton  or 
linen  goods.  It  is  perfectly  harmless  if  well  rinsed  in  clear  water 
immediately  after  using. 

Bee  or  Wasp  Stings.  ŌĆö  Wet  some  cut  tobacco  and  lay  it 
on  the  sting.  In  five  minutes  it  will  be  cured.  Always  keep  cut 
tobacco  in  the  house  for  such  emergencies.  It  is  invaluable  and 
sure. 

To  Preserve  Brooms.  ŌĆö  Wet  the  broom  every  week  in  boil- 


488  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

ing  suds,  and  it  will  be  toughened  by  it,  will  lust  much,  longer, 
wUl  not  cut  the  carpet,  and  will  sweep  as  elastic  as  a  new 
broom. 

Glossy  Starch.  ŌĆö  Put  two  ounces  of  white  gum-arabic  pow- 
der into  a  pitcher  ;  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  well 
and  cover  it  up  ;  let  it  stand  overnight.  In  the  morning  pour  it 
from  the  dregs  into  a  clean  bottle,  and  keep  for  use.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  this  stirred  into  a  pint  of  starch  made  in  the  usual 
manner  will  give  your  lawns,  either  black  or  printed,  a  new  look, 
which  nothing  else  can  give,  after  being  once  washed.  Much 
diluted,  it  is  excellent  for  thin  white  muslin. 

Salt  for  Nuts.  ŌĆö  Many  people  find  nuts  of  all  kinds  injurious, 
and  some  are  made  seriously  ill  by  them.  It  is  said,  and  we 
think  truly,  if  a  little  salt  be  used  with  them  it  will  prevent  any 
injury  or  inconvenience  arising  from  their  use. 

To  Take  Ink-Stains  from  Mahogany.  ŌĆö  Put  a  few  drops 
of  nitre  in  a  teaspoonful  of  water.  Touch  the  ink-spot  with  a 
feather  dipped  in  the  mixture  ;  and  as  soon  as  the  ink  disappears, 
rub  it  instantly  with  a  cloth  wet  in  cold  water,  or  there  will  be  a 
white  mark  left,  which  will  be  difficult  to  remove. 

To  Keep  Quinces.  ŌĆö  Gather  the  fruit  at  the  usual  time,  then 
put  carefully  into  barrels  so  as  not  to  bruise,  rejecting  all  but  the 
perfectly  sound  ;  then  fill  with  water,  head  up,  and  put  in  the 
cellar.  They  will  keep  all  winter,  retaining  all  the  peculiar 
qualities  and  flavor  of  fresh  quinces. 

Fruit  Stains.  ŌĆö  When  berries  and  fruits  of  all  kinds  are  in 
season,  the  housekeeper  will  find  it  necessary  to  look  carefully 
after  the  stains.  They  are  easily  removed  if  attended  to  at  once, 
but  if  left  to  dry  for  a  day  or  two  it  will  be  a  more  difficult  work. 
Stretch  the  stained  spot  tightly  over  a  deep  bowl  or  pail,  and  pour 
over  it  boiling  hot  water,  letting  it  filter  through  till  the  stain 
disappears.  The  water  must  be  really  boiling,  not  simply  scald- 
ing. If  the  article  has  been  thrown  into  suds  before  looking  after 
the  stains,  the  hot  water  will  not  destroy  them.  In  that  case  wet 
the  stain,  and  while  wet  spread  over  the  spot  some  chloride  of 
lime,  lay  the  piece  on  the  grass,  or  hang  on  the  clothes-line  where 
the  sun  will  strike  through  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  wash  and 
boil  immediately.     This  is  sure,  but  should  be  used  with  care 


GLEANINGS.  489 

and  judgment  or  it  will  eat  the  cloth  ;  but  with  proper  oversight 
it  is  sale  and  reliable.  Chloride  of  lime  is  largely  used  in  bleach- 
ing Imen,  cotton,  and  silk  in  the  ditt'erent  manufactures.  In 
former  times  chlorine,  or  oxygenated  muriatic  gas,  was  used  in 
bleaching,  but  its  effect  on  the  lungs  of  the  workmen  was  very 
injurious.  Since  chloride  of  lime  has  been  used  instead  of  chlorine, 
it  is  considered  safe  for  those  em23loyed  in  factories,  and  harmless 
in  its  ellects  on  the  goods  bleached.  In  pickling,  paring,  or  pre- 
serving friut,  the  hands  get  badly  stained.  Rub  them  in  lemon- 
juice  ;  wet  your  nail-brush  in  the  juice  and  carefully  brush  your 
nails  and  hands  ;  this  will  remove  the  stains  effectually.  A 
"  bleaching  liquid,"  prepared  from  chloride  of  lime,  is  very  effect- 
ual in  removing  all  stains  except  those  made  by  grease.  Put 
four  ounces  of  chloride  of  lime  into  a  wide-mouthed  quart  l)Ottle, 
add  a  little  water  and  stir  well  with  a  stick,  then  fill  the  bottle 
nearly  full  with  water,  and  let  it  stand  corked  for  two  weeks, 
that  the  chloride  may  dissolve.  During  this  time  some  gas  will 
be  disengaged;  and  to  prevent  explosion  or  driving  out  the  cork 
it  will  be  well  twice  a  day  to  remove  the  cork  for  an  instant  only, 
and  as  the  gas  has  an  extremely  offensive  smell  it  is  important 
that  care  should  be  taken  not  to  inhale  it,  as  it  is  injurious  to  the 
lungs  ;  when  diffused  through  the  apartment  in  small  quantity 
it  is  not  hurtful.  After  standing  two  weeks,  the  fluid  portion 
should  be  poured  off  and  kept  in  a  bottle  in  a  dark  place,  Avith 
paper  ^Tapped  around  it,  as  light  and  air  injure  its  properties. 
This  fluid  should  be  kept  in  every  family,  biit  servants  ought  not 
to  be  allowed  to  use  it  indiscreetly. 

Ink  Stains.  ŌĆö  If  ink  is  spilled  on  clothes  or  carpet,  do  not 
allow  it  to  dry,  but  as  speedily  as  possible  get  cotton-hatting,  and, 
wetting  it  in  sweet  milk,  soak  the  spot  and  rub  with  the  cotton. 
Wring  the  cotton  out  and  soak  again  with  milk,  and  if  used  when 
the  ink  is  fresh  it  will  soon  remove  it.  This  done,  wash  in 
warm  soapsuds  and  rinse  in  clear  warm  water. 

Buying  Furs.  ŌĆö  In  purchasing  furs,  a  sure  test  of  what  dealers 
call  a  [irime  fur  is  the  length  and  density  of  the  down  next  to  the 
skin.  This  can  be  readily  determined  by  blowing  a  brisk  current 
of  air  from  the  mouth  against  the  set  of  the  fur.  If  the  fibers 
open  readily,  exposing  the  skin  to  view,  reject  the  article  ;  but  if 
21* 


490  CHOICE  FAMILY  RECEIPTS. 

the  down  is  so  dense  that  the  breath  cannot  peiietrate  it,  or  at 
most  shows  but  a  small  portion  of  the  skin,  the  article  may  be 
accepted. 

Drying  Umbrellas.  ŌĆö  Most  people  dry  their  umbrellas  handle 
upwards.  This  concentrates  the  moisture  at  the  tip  where  it  is 
close,  rusts  the  wire  w^hich  secures  the  stretchers,  and  rots  the 
cloth.  After  the  umbrella  is  drained,  it  is  better  to  invert  it,  and 
dry  it  in  that  position. 

A  Tight  Ring.  ŌĆö  To  remove  a  tightly  fitting  ring  from  a  finger, 
without  pain,  pass  the  end  of  a  portion  of  rather  fine  twine  under- 
neath the  ring,  and  evenly  encircle  the  finger  from  below  upward 
(as  whipmakers  bind  lashes  on)  with  the  remainder,  as  far  as  the 
centre  of  the  finger,  then  unwind  the  string  from  above  down- 
ward by  taking  hold  of  the  end  passed  under  the  ring,  and  it  will 
be  found  the  ring  will  gradually  pass  along  the  twine  toward  the 
tip  of  the  finger. 

Scrubbing  White  Paint.  ŌĆö  As  little  soap  as  possible  should 
be  used  with  this,  and  that  in  the  water  and  not  on  the  cloth. 
It  not  only  makes  the  paint  yellow,  but,  after  a  little  while,  re- 
moves it  altogether.  A  noted  housekeeper  would  never  allow 
either  soap  or  hot  water  to  be  Uf5ed  on  paint,  except  in  case  of 
grease.  Cold  water  and  a  scrubbing-brush  were  her  weapons  of 
offence  in  waging  warfare  with  dirt.  This  makes  hard  work,  but 
it  gives  a  very  i'resh  look  to  paint,  and  saves  soap  and  fire,  if  one 
is  inclined  to  try  it.  For  greasy  spots  use  a  very  little  soda 
(carbonate)  in  the  first  water,  to  be  immediately  rinsed  off  and 
wiped  dry. 

Ho-w  to  Wash  Graining.  ŌĆö  Take  clear  warm  water,  a  clean, 
white  cloth,  and  wash  a  small  place  and  wipe  dry  with  another  dean 
white  cloth.  Do  not  wet  any  more  space  than  you  can  dry  im- 
mediately with  your  cloth,  as  it  must  not  be  left  to  dry  in  the 
atmosphere  ;  it  must  be  rubbed  dry,  hence  the  necessity  for  clean 
white  cloths.  If  the  paint  has  been  neglected  xmtil  very  much 
soiled  with  greasy  fingers,  or  specked  with  a  summer's  growth  of 
flies,  a  very  little  hard  soap  may  be  put  in  the  first  water,  and 
then  rinsed  off  with  clear  water  ;  but  avoid  soap  if  you  possibly 
can,  as  it  dulls  the  varnish,  however  carefully  used.  On  no  ac- 
count must  it  be  rubbed  on  with  a  cloth. 


GLEANINGS.  491 

Codfish  should  he  piirchased  in  small  quantities,  as  they  are  dis- 
agreeahle  to  have  in  the  house.  Even  the  desiccated  codfish,  that 
conies  m  boxes,  cannot  be  kept  so  tightly  covered  as  to  secure  us 
I'rom  the  unpleasant  smell.  If  kept  in  a  dry  place  they  grow 
hard,  if  in  a  damp  place  they  will  spoil.  They  must  be  changed 
from  garret  to  cellar  often  to  keep  them  in  proper  condition,  and 
therefore  it  is  better  to  get  them  only  as  needed. 

Zante  currants  and  stoneless  or  sultana  raisins  should  be 
washed  and  dried  when  first  bought,  and  then  packed  into  jars 
for  use.  It  is  well  to  look  them  over  occasionally,  to  see  that 
they  do  not  become  wormy.  If  there  should  be  any  appearance 
of  mold  or  worms,  empty  from  the  jars  and  spread  on  a  cloth  or 
paper  to  dry,  in  the  warm  sun  or  by  the  fire.  When  dry,  repack. 
Keep  cheese  in  a  dry  place.  A  cheese-box  with  perforated 
Ō¢Āndre  sides  is  the  best  thing  to  put  it  in,  as  the  air  will  circulate 
tlirough  it.  When  the  cheese  is  cut  wrap  a  cloth  tightly  about 
it  to  prevent  its  tlrying. 

Smoked  beef  should  be  kept  in  a  bag  and  hung  up.  Hams, 
also,  when  cut,  should  be  tied  into  a  cloth  or  bag  and  hung  up  in 
a  cool  dry  place. 

If  strawberries,  pineapples,  and  all  delicate  preserves  are  kept 
in  a  box  and  filled  in  with  sand,  they  will  keep  better  and  longer. 
Sawdust  or  tan-bark  is  not  good  to  fill  in  around  them,  as  it 
gathers  moisture  and  molds  the  preserves. 

Keep  the  flour-barrel  well  covered  with  a  close-fitting  wooden 
cover.  Hang  the  sifter  on  a  nail  over  it,  but  never  leave  it  in 
the  barrel.  Besides  being  untidy,  the  accumulation  of  flour, 
dough,  or  moisture  fi'om  your  hands  will  soon  coat  the  sieve  so 
that  it  cannot  be  used  with  ease,  and  in  a  short  time  make  the 
flour  musty  or  sour.  It  should  be  well  washed  and  dried  after 
the  baking  for  each  day  is  finished.  No  flour  should  be  use 
unsifted,  both  from  cleanliness  and  because  the  food  will  be 
lighter. 

Indian  meal  should  lie  kept  in  a  cool,  diy  place,  in  a  barrel  or 
wooden  pail,  and  stirred  from  the  bottom  often,  particularly  in 
warm  weather,  as  it  will  readily  become  sour  or  musty.  Never 
use  without  sifting. 


492  CHOICE   FAMILY   RECEIPTS. 

Coffee  should  1)6  bought  by  the  bag  or  barrel,  as  it  grows  better 
by  age. 

Tea  is  cheaper  by  the  Ijox,  but  take  out  a  pound  canister  at  a 
time,  and  replacing  the  tin  foil,  nail  the  box  up  again. 

Keep  the  canister  always  shut,  as  air  injures  the  tea  badly. 

Raisins  and  starch  are  cheaper  by  the  box  ;  but  raisins  must 
be  kept  from  heat  or  air,  or  they  dry  up  and  become  almost 
worthless  ;  and  the  starch  must  be  kept  covered  to  protect  it  from 
dust. 

Household  Weights  and  Measures.  ^  Wheat  flour,  one 
pound  is  one  quart. 

Indian  meal,  one  pound  two  ounces  is  one  quart. 

Butter,  when  soft,  one  pound  one  ounce  is  one  quart. 

Loaf  sugar,  broken,  one  pound  is  one  quart. 

White  sugar,  powdered,  one  pound  one  ounce  is  one  quart. 

Best  brown  sugar,  one  pound  two  ounces  is  one  quart. 

Eggs,  average  size,  ten  are  one  pound. 

Liquid  measure,  sixteen  table-spoonfuls  are  half  a  pint. 

To  test  Flour.  ŌĆö  Place  a  little  in  the  palm  of  the  hand,  rub 
gently  with  the  finger  ;  if  the  ilour  smooths  down,  feeling  slip- 
pery, it  is  inferior  flour  and  will  never  make  good  bread,  but  if  it 
rubs  rough  in  the  palm,  feeling  like  tine  sand,  and  has  an  orange 
hue,  you  may  purchase  it  confidently.  It  will  not  disappoint 
you. 


THE  END. 


Cambridge  :  Electrotyped  and  Printed  by  Welch,  Bigelow,  &  Co. 


SOME  GOOD  BOOKS. 

FOR  SALE   BY  ALL  BOOKSELLERS,  OR  MAILED,  POST-PAID,  TO  ANY  ADDRESS, 
ON  RECEIPT  OF  THE  PRICE,  BY  THE  PUBLISHERS, 

J.  B.   FOED  AKD   OOMPA]vrY, 

No.  27  Park  Place,  New  York. 


BEECHER'S   SERMONS  :   FirM,  Second,  Third,  Fourth,  Fifth,  and 

Sirth  Series.  From  phouogr.iphic  reports  by  T.  J.  Ellinwood,  for  fifteen  jears 
Mr.  Beecher's  special  reporter.  Uniformly  bound  in  dark  brown  English  clotti. 
Single  volumes,  each  complete,  price,  $2.60  ;  full  set  of  six  volumes  for  $14.-50. 
Bound  in  half  morocco,  $  5  per  vol. 

Of  the  first  volume  the  Adoanre,  of  Chicago,  said  :  ŌĆö 

"The  volume  is  a  handsome  one,  and  is  prefaced  with  the  host  portrait  of  Mr. 
Beechcr  wo  have  ever  seen.  The  sermons  are  twenty-seven  in  number,  the  regular 
Sunday  morning  discourses  of  six  months,  and  are  a  wonderful  testimony,  notoTily  to 
the  real  goodness  of  heart  of  the  great  Plymouth  preacher,  but  to  the  ferti'it.\-  ui  re- 
source, industry  of  thought,  and  rare  ability  which  can  keep  his  regular  mimstraiions 
to  such  a  height  of  average  excellence." 

.  ..."  These  corrected  sermons  of  perhaps  the  greatest  of  living  preachers,  ŌĆö  a 
man  whose  heart  is  as  warm  and  catholic  as  his  abilities  are  great,  and  whose  sermons 
combine  fidelity  and  Scriptural  truth,  great  power,  glorious  imagination,  fervid 
rhetoric,  and  vigorous  reasoning,  with  intense  human  sympathy  and  robust  common 
sense."  ŌĆö  liritish  Quarterly  Review. 

Each  succeeding  volume  contains,  also,  six  months'  sermons  (from  450  to  500  pp.) 
issued  in  style  uniform  with  the  Firat  Series.  The  Second  Series  contains  a  fine 
interior  view  of  Plymouth  Church.     The  other  volumes  are  not  illustrated. 


LECTURE-ROOM  TALKS.     A  series  of  Familiar  Discourses, 

on  Themes  of  Christian  Experience.  By  IIenrt  Ward  Beecher.  Phono- 
graphically  reported  by  T.  J.  Ei.linwood  ;  with  Steel  Portrait.  12mo,  extra 
cloth.     Price,  $1.75.     [Out  of  print.     IVii  I  be  reissued  soon. "^ 

"  J.  B.  Ford  it  Co.,  who  are  now  printers  and  publishers  to  the  Beecher  family, 
have  collected  in  a  handsome  volume  ihe  Lirtiire-Room  TaUx  of  the  Brooklyn 
preacher,  hi'ld  in  the  weekly  prayer-meeting  of  the  Plymouth  Church.  There  is  a 
great  deal  ^'t  luimorous  talk  mingled  with  much  that  is  serious,  and  the  subjects  dis- 
cussed are  of  the  most  varied  kind.  It  i^  a  channing  book." ŌĆö Springfield  (Mass.) 
Republican. 

MY  WIFE  AND  I  ;  or,  Harry  Henderson's  History.  A 
Novel.  By  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe.  Illustrated  by  H.  L.  Stephens.  474 
pages  ;  extra  cloth,  stamped  cover,  $  1.75. 

This  novel  is  the  success  of  the  year.  It  has  been  selling  very  rapidly  ever  since 
its  publication.     Evenjhoriy  is  reading  it 

ŌĆóŌ¢Ā  Always  bright,  piquant,  and  entertainmg,  with  an  occasional  touch  of  tenderness, 
strong  because  subtle,  keen  in  sarcasm,  full  of  womanly  logic  directed  against  un- 
womanly tendencies,  Blrs.  Stowe  has  achieved  an  unbounded  success  in  this  her 
latest  effort."  ŌĆö  fiosZon  Journal. 


MATERNITY :  A  Popular  Treatise  for  Wives  and  Mothers. 
Uy  T.  S.  Verdi,  A.  M.,  M.  D.,  of  Washington,  D.  C.  Handsomely  printed  on 
fine  paper,  bevelled  boards,  extra  English  cloth,  12mo.  450  pp.  Price, 
$2.25.     Fourtli  Edition. 

"  The  authoi'  deserves  great  credit  for  his  labor,  and  the  book  merits  an  extensive 
circulation." ŌĆö  II.  S.  Medical  and  Surgical  Journal  (Chicago). 

"  There  are  few  intelligent  mothers  who  will  not  be  benetlted  by  reading  and  keep- 
ing by  them  tor  frequent  counsel  a  volume  so  rich  in  valuable  suggestions.  With  its 
tables,  prescriptions,  and  indices  at  the  end,  this  book  ought  to  do  much  good,"  ŌĆö 
Hearth  and  Home. 

"  We  hail  the  appearance  of  this  work  with  true  pleasure.  It  is  dictated  by  a  pure 
and  liberal  spirit,  and  wll  be  a  real  boon  to  manj'  a  young  mother."  ŌĆö  American  Med- 
ical Observer  (Detroit). 

THE  CHILDREN'S  WEEK :  Seven  Stories  for  Seven  Days. 
By  R.  W.  Raymond.  16mo.  Nine  full  page  illustrations  by  H.  L.  Stepuk^s 
and  Miss  M.  L.  Hallock.    Price,  extra  cloth,  f  1.25  ;  cloth,  full  gilt,  $  1.50. 

"  The  book  is  bright  enough  to  please  any  people  of  culture,  and  yet  so  simple  that 
children  will  welcome  it  with  glee.  Air,  Raymond's  talus  have  won  great  popularity 
by  their  wit,  delicate  fancy,  arid,  withal,  admirable  good  sense,  'ihe  illustrations  ŌĆö 
all  new  and  made  for  the  book  ŌĆö  are  particuhxrly  apt  aud  pleasmg,  showing  forth  the 
comical  element  of  the  book  ana  its  pure  and  beautiful  sentimeni,."  ŌĆö  Bu^alo  (JV.  >'.) 
Commercial  Advertiser. 

THE    OVERTURE    OF    ANGELS.    By  Henry  Ward 

Beecher.  Illustrated  by  Uabrt  Fehn.  12mo,  tinted  paper,  extra  cloth,  gilt. 
Price,  $2.00. 

This  exquisite  gift  book  is  an  excerpt  from  Mr.  Beecher's  great  work,  the  "  Life  of 
Jesus  the  Christ."  It  is  a  series  of  pictures,  in  the  author's  happiest  style,  of  the 
Angelic  Appearances,  giving  a  beautiful  and  characteristically  interesting  treatment 
of  all  the  events  recorded  in  the  Gospels  as  occurring  about  the  period  of  tae  na- 
tivity of  our  Lord. 

"  The  f.tyle,  the  sentiment,  and  faithfulness  to  the  spirit  of  tbe  Biblical  record  with 
which  the  narrative  is  treated  are  chaiactcristic  of  its  author,  and  will  commend  it  to 
many  readers,  to  whom  its  elegance  of  form  will  give  it  an  additional  attraction."  ŌĆö 
Worcester  (Mass.)  Spy. 

"  A  perfect  fragment,"  ŌĆö  New  York  World. 

OUR  SEVEN  CHURCHES :  Eight  Lectures  by  THOMAS  K. 

Beecher.     16mo.     Paper,  50  cents  ;  extra  cloth,  ┬®1  ;  cloth,  gilt,  S  1.25. 

"  The  eight  lectures  comprised  in  this  volume  are  conceived  in  a  spirit  of  broad 
liberality  as  refreshing  as  it  is  rare.  They  evince,  in  the  most  gratifying  manner  pos- 
sible, how  easy  it  is  to  find  something  good  in  one's  neighbors  or  opponents,  or  even 
enemies,  if  one  tries  faithfully  to  do  so,  instead  of  making  an  effort  to  discover  a  fault 
or  a  weakness.  The  volume  is  one  which  should  have,  as  it  undoubtedly  will,  a  wide 
circulation,"  ŌĆö  Detroit  Free  Press. 

MINES,   MILLS,   AND  FURNACES  of  the  Precious  Me+als 

of  the  United  States.  Being  a  complete  Exposition  of  the  General  Methods  em- 
ployed in  the  great  Mining  Industries  of  America,  including  a  Review  of  the 
present  Condition  and  Prospectsof  the  Mines  throughout  the  Interior  and  Pacific 
States.  By  Kossiter  W.  Katmoitd,  Ph.  D.,  United  States  Commissioner  of 
Mining  Statistics,  President  American  Inst.  Mining  Engineers,  Editor  of  tlie 
Engineering  and  Mining  Journal,  author  of  "  The  Mines  of  the  West,''  "  Amer- 
ican Mines  and  Mining,"  etc.,  etc.  1  vol.  8vo.  566  pages.  Illustrated  with 
engravings  of  machines  and  processes.     Extra  cloth,  $  3.50. 

"  The  author  is  thorough  in  his  subject,  and  has  already  published  a  work  on  our 
mines  which  commanded  universal  approval  by  its  clearness  of  statement  and  breadth 
of  views,"  ŌĆö  Albany  (N.  T)  Argus. 

"  His  scientific  ability,  his  practical  knowledge  of  mines  and  mining,  his  unerring 
judgment,  and,  finally,  the  enthusiasm  with  which  he  enters  upon  his  work,  all  com- 
bine to  fit  him  fur  his  position,  and  none  could  bring  to  it  a  greater  degree  of  upright- 
ness and  fauTiess."  ŌĆö  Denver  ( Col.)  News. 


PRINCIPLES  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  :  As  applied  to  the 

Duties  and  Pleasures  of  Home.  ISy  Catuarinb  K.  Uekoiieb  and  Harriet 
li.;i;f)HER  Stowe.  A  coaipact  I'inio  volume  of  3'JO  pajies  ;  profusely  illus- 
trated ;  well  priuted,  and  bound  in  neat  and  substantial  style.     Price,  !S  2.00. 

Prepared  with  a  view  to  assist  in  training  young  women  for  the  distinctive  duties 
which  inevitably  come  upon  them  in  liousehold  life,  this  volume  has  been  made 
with  especial  reference  to  the  duties,  cares,  and  pleasures  of  the  fu,mily ^  as  being  the 
place  where,  whatever  the  political  developments  of  the  future,  woman,  from  her 
very  nature  of  body  and  of  spirit,  will  find  her  most  engrossing  occupation.  It  is 
full  of  interest  for  all  iutellig.ut  girls  and  young  women. 

Jtjr'  The  work  has  been  heartily  indorsed  and  adopted  by  the  directors  of  many 
of  toe  leading  t'oUeges  and  Seminaries  for  young  women  as  a  text-book,  both  for 
study  and  reading. 

HISTORY  OF  THE  STATE   OF   NEW  YORK.     From  the 

date  of  the  Discovery  and  Settlements  on  Manhattan  Island  to  the  Present 
Time.  .  A  Text-Book  for  High  Schools,  Academies, aud Colleges.  By  S.  S.  Kan- 
DAl.i.,  Superintendent  of  Public  Kducatiou  in  New  York  City.  12uio  vol  , 
39G  pages.     Illustrated.     Price,  S  1.75 

"  This  work  contains  so  much  valuable  information  that  it  should  be  found  in  evciy 
house  in  the  State  as  a  volume  of  reference.  Its  ^  aluc  for  use  in  educational  insti- 
tutions is  of  a  very  high  character."  ŌĆö i\'or//ifrn  Budget,  Troy  (N.  K). 

C;^^  Officially  adopted  by  the  Boards  of  Education  in  the  cities  of  New  York, 
Brooklyn,  and  Jersey  City  for  use  in  the  Public  Schools,  and  also  extensively  used  in 
I'rivate  Schools  throughout  the  State,  both  as  a  text-book  and  alternate  reader. 


H.  W.  BEECHER'S  WORKS.     Uniform  edition.    This  is  a  set 

of  books  long  needed  in  the  trade.  It  will  include  "  Norwood,"  "Lectures  to 
Young  Men,"  "Eyes  and  Ears,"  "Summer  in  the  Soul,"  the  early  "Star 
Papers,"  a  new  edition  of  "  Lecture-Room  Talks,"  and  other  works,  embracing 
some  which  are  now  out  of  print,  and  for  which  there  is  constant  call. 

The  first  volumes  issued  in  this  new  edition  of  Mr.  Beecher's  minor  works  are 
YALE   LECTURES   ON    PREACHING, 
Price,  extra  cloth,  $  1.25 ;  half  calf,  $  2.50  ;  and  a  new  edition  of 

LECTURES   TO   YOUNG    MEN, 
including  several  new  lectures  never  before   published,  a  new  Introduction  by  the 
author,  etc.,  etc.    Price,  extra  cloth,  $!  1.50  ;  half  calf,  $  3.00. 

STAR    PAPERS, 

A  new  edition,  including  much  new  matter  added  to  the  original  book.     Price, 
extra  cloth,  *  1.75  ;  half  calf,  .if  3  25. 


A  FRESH  BOOK  BY  GRACE  GREENWOOD. 

NEW  LIFE  IN  NEW  LANDS  :  Notes  of  Western  Travel. 

Racy,  sparkling,  readable,  full  of  wit  and  keen  observation,  it  eives  a  series  of 
brillant  pen  pictures  along  the  great  route  from  the  Mississippi  to  the  Pacific. 
12mo.    396  pp.     Price,  extra  cloth,  stamped  cover,  S2.00 


4 

A  BRILUANT  SUCCESS. 


IN    CONSTANT   DEMAND!      MPID   AND  CONTINUED  SALES!! 


500    V^oliimes    in    One, 


AGENTS    WANTED 

FOR    THE 


Library  of  Poetry  and  Song, 


Choice  Selections  from  the  Best  Poets, 

ENGLISH,  SCOTCH,  IRISH,   AND  AMERICAN,  INCLUDING  TRANS- 
LATIONS FROM  TKE  GERMAN,  SPANISH,  etc. 

WITH   AN   INTKODUCTION 

By  WILLIAM  CULLEN  BKTANT, 

Under  whose  careful  Supervision  the  Work  was  Compiled. 

In  one  Superb  Large  Octavo  Volnme  of  over  800  pages,  weU  printed,  on  Fine 

Paper,  and  Illustrated  with  an  admirable  Portrait  on  Steel  of  Mr. 

Bryant,  together  with  twenty-six  Autographic  Fac-Similes 

on  Wood  of  Celebrated  Poets,  besides 

other  choice  Full-page  Engravings, 

by  the  best  Artists. 


The  handsomest  find  cheapest  subscription  book  extant.  A  Library  of 
over  500  Volumes  in  one  book,  whose  contents,  of  no  ephemeral  nature  or 
interest,  will  never  grow  old  or  stale.  It  can  be,  and  will  be,  read  and  re- 
read with  pleasure  as  long  as  its  leaves  hold  together. 

This  book  has  been  prepared  with  the  aim  of  gathering  into  a  single 
volume  the  largest  practicable  compilation  of  the  best  Poems  of  the 
English  language,  making  it  as  nearly  as  possible  the  choicest  and  most 
complete  general  collection  of  Poetry  yet  published. 


THE 


"LIBRARY  OF  POETRY  AND  SONG" 

Is  a  volume  destined  to  became  one  of  the  most  popular  books  ever 
printtd.  It  is  truly  a  people's  book.  Its  contents  would  cost  hunareds 
of  dollars  in  the  books  whence  they  are  gleaned,  English  and  American  ; 
and,  indeed,  although  one  possessed  the  volumes,  the  reading  of  such  vast 
numbers  of  pages  would  be  a  labor  not  readily  undertaken  by  most  peop'e, 
even  those  who  appreciate  poetry. 


The  New  York  Times, 

A  journal  well  known  the  country  over  for  high  literary  excellence  and 
correct  taste,  says  :  ŌĆö 

"  This  very  handsome  volume  differs  from  all  collections  of  '  elegant  extracts,'  par- 
lor books,  aiiil  the  like,  which  we  have  seen,  in  beinj,'  arranged  according  to  an  intel- 
ligible and  comprehensive  plan,  in  containing  selections  which  nearly  cover  the 
eiuhv  historical  period  over  which  bnglmli  jioelry  extends,  and  iu  embracing  matter 
suited  to  every  conceivable  taste  and  every  \  ariety  of  feeling  and  culture.  iVe  know 
of  i,u  similar' cullectivii  iii  the  iJnyhsh  laii'juaiji;  ivliich,iu  copiousness  and fenci/!/ of 

selec/ioii  and  arranfjciiunt,  can  at  all  cuiiipaie  with  U llic  volume  is  a  model  of 

typographical  clearness." 

The  Albany  Evening  Journal, 

One  of  the  oldest  papers  aud  highest  literary  standards  in  the  country, 
says  :  ŌĆö 

"  It  is  undoubtedly  '  the  choicest  and  most  complete  general  collection  of  poctn'  yet 
published.'  if  will  be  deemed  sufficien-  proof  of  the  judicious  character  of  the  selec- 
tions, and  of  Iheir  excellence,  that '  every  poem  has  taken  its  place  in  the  book  only 
after  passing  the  cultured  criticism  of  jlr.  William  CuUen  Bryant,' whose  portrait 
constitutes  the  titling  frontispiece  of  the  volume.  The  work  could  have  no  higher 
Indorsement.  Jlr.  Bryant'slntroduction  to  the  volume  is  a  most  beautiful  and  critical 
essay  on  poets  and  poetry,  from  the  days  of  '  the  father  of  English  poetry  '  to  the 

present  time No  other  selection  we  knoio  of  is  as  varied  and  complete  as  this :  and 

it  must  find  its  way  into  every  library  and  household  where  ])oetry  is  read  and 
appreciated." 


This  book,  supplying  a  real  public  need  in  an  admirable  manner,  has 
constantly  sold  so  fast  that  the  pttblishers  have  had  trouble  to  keep  up 
their  stock.    It  has  won  an  instant  and  permanent  topularitv. 

Terms  liberal.  Agents  all  like  it,  and  buyers  are  more  than  pleased 
with  it.    j^^"  Send  for  Circular  and  Terms  to 

J.  B.  FORD   &  CO.,  Publishers, 

27  Park  Place,  New  York. 

BRANCH  OFFICES:  Boston,  11  Bronifleld  Street;  Chicago,  75  West 
Washington  Street ;  San  Francisco,  339  Kearney  Street. 


6 
A    HOUSEHOLD    BOOK. 

NINE  UNABRIDGED,  WORLD-RENOWNED  VOLUMES  IN  ONE. 


AGENTS    WANTED 

FOK    THE 

jIbrary  of  Famous  Fiction, 

EMBKACING    THE 

Nine  Standard  Masterpieces  of  Imaginative  Literature 

(unabridged), 
WITH  AN  INTRODUCTION 

By  HARRIET    BEECHER    STOWE. 

BEAUTIFULLY  ILLUSTRATED 

With  34   FuH-page   Engravings  ;     executed  by  the  best  Artists  in 

England  aud  America  ;  with  an  Illuminated  Title-Page,  Biographical 

- 1  otice  of  each  Author,  etc., ŌĆö in  one  Elegant  Large  Octavo  Volume 

of  nearly  1,100  pages,  brilliantly  printed  on  fine  paper, 

handsomely  and  substantially  bound. 


In  their  present  venture,  the  publishers  congratulate  themselves  that  the  matter 
offered  has  been  endorsed  by  the  approval  of  the  entire  reading  world  for  many 
generations.  The  remarkable  success  attending  their  Library  of  Poetry  and  Son  a-, 
put  forth  under  the  auspices  of  that  greatest  American  poet,  William  Culle;* 
B.^YANT,  naturally  suggested  the  idea  of  a  corresponding  Library  of  Famous  Fiction, 
to  be  guaranteed  and  set  before  the  public  by  the  mo┬½t  popular  American  writer  of 
fiction  known  to  this  day,  ŌĆö  Mrs.  Haeriet  Beecher  Stowe.  Thus  have  been  com- 
bined the  nine  great  masterpieces  of  imaginative  prose,  embodying  in  a  single 
convenient  volume  those  Famous  Fictions  which  have  been  admired  and  loved 
always,  everywhere,  and  by  all  classes. 

Their  number  is  not  large  ;  their  names  rise  spontaneously,  and  by  common  con- 
sent, in  every  mind  :  Pdgrirn's  Progress;  Robinson  Crusoe;  The  Vicar  of  Wakefield  ; 
Oailiver^s  Travels  (revised)  ;  Paulavtl  Virginia;  Picciola  ;  Eliznbelli,  or  the  R.nles 
if  Siberia  ;  Undiw  ;  Vnthek  :  and  a  SclecVon  of  Tales  from  the  Arabian  JVigh's''  Fn- 
t  rluiiim  nts.  As  Mrs.  Stowe  says  in  her  Introduction,  "  not  a  simjle  one  could  be 
spared  from  this  group,  in  gathering  those  volumes  of  fiction  which  the  world, 
without  di.'fsent,  has  made  classic.'^ 

^W^  Sold  only  by  Subscription  throiigli  our  Agents.  .^^J! 

TEKMS   lilBERAIi.     Send  for  full  description  and  business  circulars,  to 

J.  B.  FORD  &  CO.,  Publishers, 

ŌĆó27  Parlt  Place,  New  York. 

BRANCH  OFFICES;  Boston,  11  Eromfield  Street;  Chicago,  75  Wes) 
Washington  Street ;  San  Francisco,  339  Kearney  Street. 


SOLD   ONLY   BY  AGENTS. 


A   BOOK   FOR   EVEHYBOOyr 


Till-  vory  rcmarltable  success  of  this  book  is  not  stranjje,  .although 
it  is  having  unprecedented  sales. 


THE    LIFE 

OF 

JESUS   TPIE    CHRIST, 

UY 

HENRY    WARD    BEECHER. 


Ō¢Ā ┬½  ┬╗ Ō¢Ā ┬╗  > 

From  the  Boston  (Mass.)  Traveller. 

"  This  work  lias  a  deeper  purpose  to  serve  than  that  of  mere  oinanient.  It  is  the 
product  of  a  life  of  thought  and  loving  labor  in  study  of  the  character  and  life  of  Jesus, 
and  a  remarkably  successful  career  of  presenting  it  to  the  popular  mind  in  the  min- 
istry of  the  pulpit. 

"  III"  dciiiinul  for  this  book  will  be  great  among  the  searchers  after  knowledge,  and 
It  will  be  a  standard  for  Christian  homos  and  libraries.  It  is  destined  to  exert  a  tre- 
mendous inliutnce,  not  only  m  this  day  and  generation,  but  in  all  time." 

By  the  Rev.  Joseph  P.  Thompson,  I.I1  D.,  from  an  article  in  The 
Intfependent. 

"  That  which  first  impresses  one  in  llr.  Becchor's  hook  is  thematurity  of  the  work, 
both  in  its  conception  and  in  its  execution.  If  any  have  expected  to  find  in  it  rhe- 
torical fancies  siruek  oufat  extemporaneous  heat,  declamatory  statementsŌĆö '  the 
.spontaneities  of  nil  his  individual  iwrsonal  life '  ŌĆö projected  froiii  some  fusing  ceime 
of  philosophy  witliin,  liuf  nut  w  ildcd  into  logical  consistency,  they  have  yet  to  know 
Mr.  Beecher  through  this  Ijodk,  as  working  by  method  upon  a  well-ordered  sehi'iue 
of  tlioughi,  and  with  a  (ier|)  |iliiiosophio  puri)ose  toward  one  gr'iit,  oM'rnia^tering 
coneepiion.  He  has  neither  thrown  oft'  his  random  thoughts  nor  si  rung  tojiether  Ins 
best  tlioughts  :  but  has  luoie.'ht  all  his  powers,  in  the  maturity  of  Ibeir  strength,  in 
the  riclmess  uf  their  experienee.  and  the  largeness  of  their  development,  to  produce  a 
Work  that  may  fitly  represent  the  labors  and  the  results  01  his  life." 


More    Agents    Wanted. 

Intelligent  men  and  women  may  obtain  lucrative  empWment  by  taking 
.nn  agency.  Fu'l  descripive  Circulars  mailed  free.  Very  liberal  terms  to 
Canvassers.     Apply  to 

J.  B.  FORD   &   CO., 

37  Park  Place,  New  York:  11  Bronifield  St.,  Boston,  Mass.;  IS 
West  Washington  St.,  Cliicago,  111. :  339  Kearney  St.,  San  Fran- 
cisco, Cal. 


THE 

CHRISTIAN    UNION 

IS  AN  UNSECTAEIAN  RELIGIOUS  WEEKLY. 

HENRY   WARD    BEECHER, 
Editor. 


┬╗  ┬╗┬½┬╗  > 


This  journal  has  liad  a  very  remarkable  success,  in  two  years  at- 
taining a  circulation  surpassit^g  that  of  any  other  religious  weekly  in 
the  world. 

WUY    IS   IT? 

Because,  First,  Henry  Ward  Bekchkr  is  its  Editor,  and  his 
Editorials,  Star  Papers,  and  occasional  Literary  Reviews  and  Lecture-Room 
Talks  are  sougtit  for  by  thousands,  while  the  auxiliary  editorial  labor  is  in  the 
hands  of  cultiyated  journalists  ;  ike  COJ\rTHIBUTORS  being  representwive 
men  and  women  of  ALL  Deiiovunaliuns. 

BecaM<┬½e,  Second///,  ITS  FORM,  twenty-four  pages,  large  quarto, 
SECDRELT  PASTED  AT  THE  BACK  AND  CUT  AT  THE  EDGES,  IS  SO  Convenient  for  read- 
ing, binding,  and  preservation,  as  to  be  a  great  and  special  merit  in  its  favor. 

Bfcajise,  Third///,  It  is  called  "the  most  Interesting  Religious  Paper 
piibhshcil,''''  being  quoted  from  by  the  press  of  the  entire  country  more  exten- 
.Mvely  than  any  other.  The  critical  JVation  (N.  Y.)  says  it  is  "Not  only  the 
ablest  and  best,  but  also,  as  we  suppose,  the  most  popular  of  American  religious 
periodicals.  At  all  events  it  is  safe  to  predict  that  it  will  soon  have,  if  it  has 
not  already,  greater  influence  than  any  other  religious  paper  in  the  country." 

Because,  Fonrtfih/,  It  has  something  for  even/  Member  of  the  House- 
hold :  admirable  contributed  and  editorial  articles,  discussing  all  timely  topics  , 
fresh  information  on  unhackneyed  subjects;  reliable  news  of  the  Church  and 
the  world  ;  Market  and  Financial  Reports  ;  an  Agricultural  Department;  ex- 
cerpts of  Public  Opinion  from  the  press  ;  careful  Book  Reviews,  with  Educa- 
tional, Literary,  Musical,  and  Art  Notes  ;  much  matter  of  a  high  and  pure 
religious  tone  ;  a  Household  Department  ;  choice  Poems  ;  Household  Stories  ; 
and  Chat  for  the  Little  Ones. 


Because,  Fijlhlij,  Every  subscriber  is  presented  with 

TWO   SUPERB    OIL   CHROMOS, 

"WIDE  AWAKE"  AND  "FAST   ASLEEP," 

A  pair,  ŌĆö  no  cheap  colored  prints,  but  spleudiil  copies  of  Oil  Paiutiiigs,  by  an 
eminent  English  artist.  The  selling  price  of  the  pair  is  ()┬¦!  10)  /'(Ō¢Ā┬½  Uallam,  at 
which  price  thousands  have  been  sold  in  America,  and  still  are  selling  and  will 
be  sold  by  the  picture  trade  generally. 

Or,  if  any  should  prefer  it,  the  subscriber  will  be  presented  with  our  new, 
large,  and 

EXQUISITE   OLEOGRAPH, 

from  a  charming  painting  by  Lobriciion  (one  of  the  most  brilliant  arti.sts  of  the 
Parisian  school),  entitled 

"LITTLE    RUNAWAY   AND    HER    PETS." 

The  f^ize  (14 '^  x  21 '^  inches)  makes  it  a  very  large  picture,  and  it  is  an  admira- 
ble and  artistic  centre-piece  for  "  Wide  Awako  "  and  "  Fast  Asleep,"  or  a  nio.'t 
delicate,  attractive,  and  beautiful  work  of  art  in  itself. 


TERMS. 

One  Year's  Subscription  (including  ifnmnunted  Picture's)        ....     .fsS.OO 
Do.  do.  (including  Pictures  mounted ;  the  Chromos  on  card 

board,  or  the  Oleograph  on  canvas,  sized,  varnished, 

and  ready  for  framing) 3.25 

Two    do.  do.         (including  all  the  Pictures,  sized,  varnished,  etc.)     .       ,5.75 

The  Christi.^n  Union  and  Pltmouth  Pcr.PiT  mailed  for  one  year  to  one 

address  (including  Chromos  as  above)  for  S  5-00  or 5  25 

11;;^┬░'  In  all  ca.┬½es,  ten  cents  extra  must  he  sent  to  defray  the  cost  of  wrapping  and 
mailing  the  pictures  to  the  subscriber's  address,  .-^^i 


K^  Canvassers  allowed  liberal  Commissions. 

An  old  agent  who  knows  says  :  "  I  have  never  presented  anything  for  sale  that 
met  with  the  approval  of  the  entire  reading  community  as  nearly  as  does  Henry 
Ward  Beeoher's  CHRISTIAN  UNION.  Sorry  I  did  not  work  for  it  sooner.  Think 
it  tilt  best  business  for  canvasners  ever  offered  by  any  firm,  to  my  knowledge." 

J.  B.  FORD  &  CO.,  Publishers, 

37  Park  Place,  New  York  City. 

BRANCH  OFFICES:  Boston.  11  Bromfield  Street;  Chicago,  75  VTest 
Washington  Street ;  San  Francisco,  339  Kearney  Street. 


PLYMOUTH  PULPIT 

Is  a  weekly  pamphlet  Publication  of  Seraioiis  preacliecl  by 

HENRY    WARD    BEBOHER, 

Printed  from  Mr.  T.  .7  Ellinwood's  careful,  verbatim  phonographic  reports,  taken 
down  from  the  ppeiiker's  lips  This  issue  is  the  only  regularly  authorized  edition  of 
tliem,  the  one  indorsed  by  Mr.  Beechbr's  approval  as  correct,  and  sanctioned  by  his 
authority.  It  is  well  printed  on  good  paper,  in  book  form  ;  it  is  ^uitablt  for  hiHilhitr 
a  ul  pre.-ifrital-iiiii,  and  it  is  cheap,  within  the  reach  of  all.  The  publishers  have  also 
responded  to  the  demand  for  a  continued  insertion  of  the  Prayers  before  and  after 
the  Sermon,  as  among  the  most  spiritually  profitable  of  Mr.  Beecher's  ministra- 
tions. Besides  this,  the  Scriptural  lesson  and  hymns  sung  (Plymouth  Collection) 
are  indicated,  thus  maliing  a  complete  record  of  one  service  of  Plymouth  Church 
for  each  Sunday. 

CRITICAL    OPINIONS. 

BRITISH.  AMERICAN. 

"  Tliey  are  magnificent  discourses.     I  "  We  certainly  find  in  these  sermons  a 

have  often  taken    occ-ision  to   say  that  great  deal  which  we  can  conscientiously 

Beecher  is  the  greatest  preacher  that  ever  commend,  and  that  amply  justifies  the 

appeared  in  the  world;  this  judgment  is  exalted  position  which  their  author  holds 

most  soberly  considered  and  most  deliber-  among   American   preachers.    They   are 

ately  pronounced;  his  brilliant  fancy,  his  worthy  of  great  praise  for  the  freshness, 

deep  knowledge  of  human  nature,  his  af-  vigor,  and  earnestness  of  their  style;  for 

fluent  language,  and  the  many-sidedness  the  beauty  and  oftentimes  surprising  apt- 

ofhis  noble  mind,  conspire  to  place  him  at  ness  of  their  illustrations;  for  the  laVge 

the  head  of  all  Christian   speakers."ŌĆö  amount  of  consolatory  and   stimulating 

Rev.  Dr.  Paeksr,  in  The  Pulpit  Analyst  thought  embodied  in  them,  and  for  the 

(Article  "  Ad  Clkrum  ";.  force  and  skill  with  which  religious  con- 
siderations are  made   to  bear  upon  the 

"Those  corrected  Sermons  of  perhaps  mostcommon  transactions  of  life.''  ŌĆö ┬Ż?6- 

the  greatest  of  living  preachers,  ŌĆö  a  man  liotheca  Sacra,  Andover,  Mass. 

whose  heart  is  as  warm  and  catholic  as  .<  t         -^     f  ŌĆ×hnitv  anrl  pIoohptipp  hp 

!?^m't!iiJl'Jrieirfv't'oSPrTn?nŌäó'l';i^',r,f'"rP^?  haslea^cSy  a  riva  'v^fleln  Ir^e'i! 

nowe  ^  /or^us    ma┬░[Aa     n    fe  v  i  fhet  'Ōäó  "^^^  arises  from'  earnestness  and  deep, 

powei,  glorious  imagination,  terviu  met-  i,,.ŌĆ×o(i    hnmaTiitv    lie   is  ahsoliitelv  nnri- 

oric,  and  vigorous  reasoning,  with  intense  ^^^fA  ^v^^o^eache?  of  the  nresent  a"e 

tTp  >.  '''^^r'^^^'n  '^nt^r^f^.  .'r '""''  exercises'^so  Tdt'I^^d  poten?  aSuen^ce! 
sense.   -  Bntuh  Quarterly  Review.  ^ŌĆ×^   j^^   reaches   a   class  that  ordinary 

"  They  are  without  equal  among  the  pub-  preachers  fail  to  touch."  ŌĆö  Pliiladelphia 

lished  sermons  of  the  daj'.     Everywiiere  Inquirer. 

we  find  ourselves  in  the  hands  of  a  man  of  Mr.  Beecher  "  by  his  genius,  and  wilh- 
high  and  noble  impulses,  of  thorough  fear-  out  any  direct  efl['ort,  has  more  influence 
lessness,  of  broad  and  generous  sympa-  upon  the  ministerial  profession  than  all 
thics,  who  has  consecrated  all  his  wealth  the  theological  seminaries  combined.  The 
of  intelligence  and  heart  to  the  service  of  discourses  are  rich  in  all  that  makes  re- 
preaching  the  Gospel." ŌĆö  Literary  World,  ligious  literature  valuable." ŌĆö  Chicago 
Lon.;on.  Evening  Journal. 


Vol.  1.,  No.  1,  of  Plymouth  Pulpit  was  issued  September  26,  1868  Each 
Volume  contains  twenty  six  numbers,  being  one  sermon  each  week  for  six  months. 
This  gives  annually  two  volumes  of  nearly  Jive  hundred  pages  each. 


TERMS.  ŌĆö  Single  numbers,  ten  cents.  Yearly  Subscription  price,  $3.00. 
Half  yearly,  ┬¦  1.75.  Subscriptions  may  begin  with  any  number.  Back  numbers 
supplied 

CLUB   RATES  ŌĆö  five  copies  for  S  I'S.OO. 

THE  CHRISTIAN  UNION,  together  with  the  two  charming  French  Oil  Chromos, 
''Wide  Aw..\ke  "  and  "  K.\st  Asleep.''  (S3. 00),  and  PLYMOUTH  PULPIT 
(┬¦3.00),  will  be  sent  to  ONE   ADDRESS  for  S  5.00. 

Postage  on  Plymouth  Pulpit  to  subscribers  in  the  United  States  is  twenty  cents 
per  year,  payable  quarterly  in  advance,  at  the  Post-Office  to  which  the  pamphlet  is 
sent ;  and  on  single  copies  to  England  it  is/oiw  cents. 

J.  B.  FORD  &  CO.,  Publishers, 

37  Park  Place,  New  York. 


H  n^  Bi 


^^.  /%  '^^  J%  '^;  P^ 


l  <  < 


*1  c^ 


N.  MANrHF.┬½;TFP 


.  o  ┬½ 


