MRS.  De GRAF'S 
GO OK BOOK 


MRS.  BELLE    DeGRAF 


Class  T  X   ^15 


GoEyriglit"N?_ 


nOPmiGHT  DEPOSm 


MRS.  DE  GRAF'S 
COOK  BOOK 


^^t^CCc 


Mrs.  De  Grafs  Cook  Book 


Editor:  Wf)t  &an  Jf  ranciKco 
Cbrontcle'0  Cooking  Infor- 
mation Page.  Syndicated 
in  50  Pacific  Coast  News- 
papers. 

Director:  Domestic  Science, 
California  Prune  y  Apricot 
Growers  Association. 

Instructor:  U.  S.  Naval  Re- 
serves, New  York  City.  For 
many  years  in  charge  of  the 
Domestic  Science  Depart- 
ment of  the  Sperry  Flour 
Company. 


PUBLISHED  BY 

H.  S.  CROCKER  CO.,  INC. 

SAN  FRANCISCO,  CALIF. 


JUL  -7  1922 

©CI.AG74855 


An  Acknowledgment 

|0  the  many  whose  requests  that  the  works 
of  the  author  be  put  into  book  form,  and 
whose  interest  was  the  main  influence  that 

prompted   the  publication    of  this    book,    a    deep 

feeling  of  thanks  is  extended. 

To  the  San  Francisco  Chronicle  and  the  H.  S. 
Crocker  Co.,  Inc.,  whose  cooperation  made  possible 
the  printing  and  distribution  of  this  book,  sincere 
appreciation  is  offered. 

The  Author. 


CHAPTER  ONE 

MEASUREMENTS 

CULINARY  TERMS  AND  METHODS 

COOKING  PROCESSES 

EVERYDAY  MISTAKES  IN  COOKING 

HEAT  REGULATION  AND  TEMPERATURES 

MENU  BUILDING 

FOOD  VALUE  OF  FAT 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [13] 

Measurements 

I  HE  first  essentials  for  uniform  results  in  cookery 
are  knowledge  of  the  proper  methods  to  use  and 
accuracy  of  measurements.  All  cook  books  and 
tested  recipes  call  for  measuring  cups  and  level 
measurements,  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before  measuring. 
This  will  insure  uniform  results,  providing  the  oven  heat 
and  the  methods  used  are  correct.  Most  failures  in  cooking 
can  be  traced  to  careless  measuring,  not  following  the 
recipe  accurately,  or  lack  of  proper  heat  regulation. 

Experience  in  teaching  housewives  the  fundamentals 
of  cookery  have  brought  out  the  information  that  com- 
paratively few  women  provide  themselves  with  standard 
half  pint  measuring  cups.  All  tested  recipes  call  for  a 
cup  of  this  type.  For  flour  mixtures  the  ordinary  house- 
hold cup  is  not  satisfactory,  as  it  seldom  holds  a  half  pint. 
The  baking  powder,  salt,  etc.,  will  be  out  of  proportion  to 
the  other  ingredients  if  a  standard  measuring  cup  is  not 
used.  It  may  not  mean  failure,  but  it  will  mean  indifferent 
results.  Careless  measuring  of  salt  will  render  a  dish  most 
unpleasant,  if  not  entirely  useless.  Too  much  baking 
powder  will  cause  a  cake  to  be  dry  and  coarse  in  texture. 
My  own  experience  as  a  teacher  has  shown  me  that  the 
average  housewife  does  not  measure  ingredients  carefully, 
and  to  be  accurate  in  measurements  is  one  of  the  first  steps 
to  success.  Divided  recipes  often  fail  because  not  care- 
fully divided. 

A  standard  measuring  cup  holds  just  one-half  pint  of 
liquid  or  half  a  pound  of  butter  or  sugar,  or  one-fourth 
pound  of  flour.  A  level  cup  of  any  material  is  all  the  cup 
will  hold.  Fats  should  be  packed  solid  or  weighed. 
The  cups  are  marked  to  indicate  halves,  fourths,  and 
thirds.  Kitchen  equipment  should  include  at  least  two  of 
these  cups. 

Measuring  spoons  come  in  sets  containing  tablespoons, 
half  tablespoon,  teaspoon,  half  and  quarter  teaspoons. 
The  standard  tablespoon  or  teaspoon  may  be  used,  but  be 
sure  measurements  are  level. 


[14]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Culinary  Terms  and  Methods 

The  term  mixing  is  a  general  one,  and  may  mean  stir- 
ring, beating,  kneading,  or  folding  and  cutting,  according 
to  the  dish  under  preparation  and  the  quality  and  texture 
of  the  materials  to  be  used.  Stirring  is  the  most  general 
method  used.  Liquids  are  stirred  while  cooking;  thin 
batters,  such  as  pancakes,  are  mixed  by  stirring  with  a 
spoon.  Cereals,  jams,  sauces,  etc.,  are  all  mixed  by 
stirring. 

Beating  is  the  method  used  to  lighten  eggs,  mix  cakes, 
whip  cream,  etc.  Beating  may  be  done  with  a  rotary  egg 
beater,  fork,  egg  whip  or  perforated  wooden  spoon.  If 
using  an  egg  whip,  fork,  or  wooden  spoon,  the  mixture  is 
beaten  to  inclose  a  quantity  of  air.  When  using  a  rotary 
egg  beater  the  ingredients  are  well  mixed  and  light,  but 
not  nearly  so  much  air  is  beaten  into  the  mixture  as  when 
using  the  egg  whip. 

Folding  and  cutting  are  usually  applied  to  the  manner 
in  which  eggs  are  added  to  cake,  muffin,  or  waffle  batters, 
souffles  or  puffy  omelets.  Sponge  cakes  made  without 
baking  powder  depend  upon  the  air  beaten  into  the  egg 
whites  for  lightness  and  texture,  the  air  beaten  into  the 
eggs  expanding  with  the  heat  of  the  oven. 

This  rule  also  applies  to  souffles,  prune  whip,  and 
puffy  omelets.  But  unless  extreme  lightness  is  desired, 
eggs  do  not  need  to  be  beaten  separately  for  muffin  or 
waffle  batters.  By  folding  and  cutting,  eggs  are  added 
carefully  to  the  mixture,  the  batter  being  turned  over  the 
beaten  eggs  until  all  have  been  folded  in.  If  the  eggs  are 
stirred  or  beaten  into  the  mixture,  the  result  will  not  be  as 
spongy  and  light.  When  the  white  of  eggs  and  cream  are 
beaten  light  and  then  added  to  a  mixture,  they  must  be 
carefully  folded  into  the  ingredients;  otherwise  it  is  use- 
less to  beat  them  light;  stirring  or  beating  them  into  the 
mixture  will  undo  all  the  previous  beating.  This  method 
seems  to  be  one  of  the  least  understood. 
H.  Kneading  is  applied  to  the  manner  in  which  stiff  doughs 
are  handled.  This  term  usually  refers  to  yeast  mixtures. 
After  the  ingredients  have  been  mixed,  the  dough  is  turned 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [15] 

out  on  the  molding  board  and  kneaded.  This  is  accom- 
phshed  by  slightly  flouring  the  board  and  hands,  then  one 
half  the  dough  is  folded  over  the  other  half,  pressing  down 
with  the  ball  of  the  hand. 

The  dough  is  turned  constantly,  and  in  this  manner  a 
new  portion  of  dough  is  brought  uppermost  to  fold  over 
each  time.  This  process  is  continued  until  the  dough  is 
smooth  and  elastic.  Baking  powder  or  soda  raised  doughs 
should  be  kneaded  very  lightly,  if  at  all;  otherwise  they 
will  not  be  light. 

Rolling  is  quite  different  from  all  other  processes,  and 
is  used  in  making  pies,  biscuits,  cookies,  doughnuts,  rolls, 
tarts,  etc.  Pastry  should  be  rolled  and  handled  quickly, 
and  should  always  be  rolled  in  one  direction,  and  the  rolling 
done  as  lightly  as  possible. 

Eggs  and  crumbs  are  used  for  croquettes,  fish  and  other 
foods  cooked  in  deep  fat.  The  food  to  be  fried  is  first 
dipped  in  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  eggs,  and 
in  the  crumbs  a  second  time.  The  egg  should  be  slightly 
beaten  and  one  tablespoon  of  cold  water  added;  or  the  egg 
white  slightly  beaten  may  be  used  instead  of  the  whole  egg. 

Molding  is  used  for  charlotte  russe,  blanc  mange,  and 
gelatine  mixtures.  It  also  applies  to  certain  types  of 
frozen  desserts.  The  mixture  is  poured  into  a  wet  mold  or 
form,  chilled,  and  then  turned  into  the  serving  dish.  The 
mold  should  stand  perfectly  level  during  the  chilling,  and 
when  ready  to  remove,  run  a  sharp  knife  or  spatula  around 
the  edge  of  the  form,  turn  over  on  a  flat  serving  dish, 
shake  the  mold  or  tap  lightly  on  the  bottom,  when  the  food 
should  unmold.  The  form  should  always  be  thoroughly 
wet  and  cold  when  the  mixture  is  poured  into  it.  Dipping 
the  mold  in  warm  water  for  a  second  is  another  method  of 
unmolding  gelatine  mixtures,  or  dipping  in  cold  water  to 
unmold  frozen  puddings.  Warm  water  will  soften  the 
geletine  mixture  just  enough  to  unmold  it  easily,  and 
the  cold  water  is  so  much  warmer  than  the  frozen  mixture, 
it  will  have  the  same  effect. 


[16]  MRS.  DE  GRAF'S  COOK  BOOK 


Cooking  Processes 


Boiling 

Every  housewife  should  possess  a  thorough  knowledge 
of  the  various  methods  of  applying  heat  to  food.  There 
is,  for  instance,  a  vast  difference  between  boiling  and  sim- 
mering, and  yet  much  good  food  has  been  completely 
ruined  in  the  cooking  because  this  difference  was  not 
understood. 

Boiling  is  the  most  generally  used  method  of  cooking; 
it  is  also  one  of  the  simplest  and  most  economical.  It 
means  cooking  the  food  in  water  at  212°  Fahrenheit. 
Foods  when  properly  boiled  are  both  wholesome  and 
digestible. 

There  is  also  an  impression  that  food  will  cook  faster  if 
the  water  boils  violently.  This  is  not  the  case,  however, 
for  as  soon  as  water  bubbles,  it  has  reached  the  boiling 
point  and  it  does  not  become  any  hotter  because  it  boils 
violently.  There  is  a  waste  of  fuel  in  unnecessarily  fast 
boiling,  particularly  when  gas,  electricity,  or  oil  is  used. 
When  the  boiling  point  has  once  been  reached,  it  can 
easily  be  maintained  with  a  reduced  heat. 

Simmering 

Simmering  food  is  keeping  the  liquid  under  the  boiling 
point — a  long,  slow  cooking  process.  This  method  is  used 
for  meat  soup  stocks  and  for  making  tender  the  cheaper, 
tough  cuts  of  meat  and  old  fowls.  Boiling  meat  or  fowl 
only  toughens  it;  keeping  at  the  simmering  point  will 
gradually  make  the  meat  tender  and  palatable. 

If  soup  stock  is  boiled,  the  stock  will  lack  flavor,  for 
boiling  seals  the  surface,  and  if  continued,  keeps  the  juices 
in  the  meat;  simmering  will  draw  out  the  juices  necessary 
in  a  good  soup  stock. 

The  term  "boiled  meat"  is  really  incorrect.  While  the 
meat  is  plunged  into  boiling  water  to  seal  the  surface  and 
keep  the  juices  from  escaping,  it  is  cooked  at  the  simmer- 
ing point. 

The  housekeeper  who  learns  the  value  of  simmering  will 
always  be  able  to  serve  well  cooked  meats  at  comparatively 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [17] 

small  cost,  for  the  less  tender  cuts  of  meat  are  just  as  high 
in  food  value  as  the  more  expensive  parts. 

Steaming 

By  this  method  food  is  cooked  in  the  vapor  arising  from 
boiling  water,  and  it  is  the  most  gradual  of  all  methods. 
The  water  under  the  food  must  be  kept  constantly  boiling 
and  the  steamer  containing  the  food  should  be  closely 
covered  so  as  to  retain  all  the  steam.  This  gradual  heat 
renders  many  foods  more  digestible  than  when  boiled. 
None  of  the  nutriment  is  lost,  as  when  food  is  immersed  in 
water.  Steamed  foods  retain  all  their  food  value  and 
flavor. 

Stewing 

Stewing  is  cooking  food  in  a  small  amount  of  liquid  at 
the  simmering  point,  closely  covered,  until  it  becomes 
tender.  Stewed  meat  or  chicken  is  a  sort  of  combination 
meat  and  soup,  for  the  gravy  is  always  served  as  part  of 
the  dish.  Food  is  cut  in  small  pieces  for  stewing,  and  the 
cooking  takes  less  time  than  for  one  large  piece  of  meat  or 
a  whole  fowl.  Stewing  is  an  economical  method  of  cook- 
ing, because  the  cheaper  tough  cuts  of  meat  may  be  used. 
All  the  nutriment  is  retained,  and  the  slow  cooking  renders 
the  food  entirely  digestible. 

Braising 

Braising  Is  a  combination  of  stewing  and  roasting,  and 
is  used  for  meats — usually  the  less  tender  roasts.  The 
meat  is  cooked  with  less  liquid  than  for  boiling,  and  is 
cooked  in  one  solid  piece.  Braising  may  be  accomplished 
on  top  of  the  fire,  using  a  heavy  kettle,  closely  covered,  or 
in  the  oven  in  a  covered  pan.  The  meat  is  first  browned 
in  drippings,  or  other  fat;  then  a  small  quantity  of  liquid  is 
added,  which  is  slowly  reduced  to  a  rich  gravy.  Occasional 
basting  is  required  if  the  meat  is  to  be  juicy  and  fine  in 
flavor.  The  toughest  cut  of  meat  will  become  tender  by 
this  method.  When  meat  is  braised  in  an  iron  kettle 
over  the  fire,  it  is  frequently  called  a  pot  roast. 

Roasting 

Roasting  really  means  cooking  over  hot  coals,  or  In  hot 


[18]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

ashes.  Oven  roasting  is  the  more  modern  method  of 
cooking  meats,  although  the  open  fire  and  hot  coals  are 
still  preferred  by  many  cooks. 

The  oven  should  be  hot  when  the  meat  is  put  into  it, 
and  kept  hot  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  By  that  time  the 
surface  of  the  meat  should  be  seared  to  prevent  the  escape 
of  the  juices.  The  heat  should  then  be  reduced  and  the 
cooking  continued.  Frequent  basting  is  essential,  as  it 
prevents  the  meat  becoming  dry. 

Broiling  or  Grilling 

Broiling  is  one  of  the  quickest  methods  of  cooking 
foods.  It  is  really  a  form  of  roasting,  but  is  used  for  meat 
with  greater  surface  but  seldom  more  than  two  inches  in 
thickness — often  less.  Red-hot  coals  or  the  well-heated 
broiler  of  a  gas  or  electric  range  are  required.  The  object 
is  to  sear  over  both  sides  as  quickly  as  possible  without 
burning,  in  order  to  retain  the  rich  juices.  After  searing, 
the  heat  should  be  reduced  and  the  cooking  continued  as 
long  as  desired,  turning  once  or  twice  if  beef,  chops,  or 
chicken  are  being  broiled. 

Planking 

Planking  meat  or  fish  is  practically  a  form  of  broiling. 
The  food  is  first  seared  on  both  sides  in  the  broiler,  then 
finished  on  the  heated  plank  in  a  hot  oven.  The  wood 
imparts  a  pleasing  flavor,  and  the  plank  itself  offers  an 
opportunity  for  attractive  garnishes. 

Baking 

Baking  is  accomplished  in  the  oven  with  various  degrees 
of  heat.  The  difference  between  baking  and  broiling  food 
is  that  one  is  cooked  in  a  dry  heat,  and  the  other  is  cooked 
in  moist  heat. 

Frying 

There  are  three  methods  of  frying  foods:  immersing  in 
deep,  hot  fat;  sauteing,  or  cooking  in  a  small  amount  of 
fat  in  a  frying  pan;  or  pan  broiling,  which  is  done  in  a  very 
hot  pan  without  fat,  but  turning  frequently  to  avoid 
burning. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [19] 

Everyday  Mistakes  in  Cooking 

When  strong  flavored  vegetables,  such  as  cabbage, 
cauHflower,  or  onions,  lose  their  color,  are  rather  strong  in 
flavor  and  throw  ofi^  an  unpleasant  odor  while  cooking,  the 
vegetable  has  not  been  put  to  cook  in  boiling  water  and 
the  kettle  in  which  it  was  cooked  has  been  covered.  Never 
start  vegetables  cooking  in  water  under  the  boiling  point. 
For  the  strong  flavored  vegetables  use  a  quantity  of  water, 
but  for  the  green,  more  delicate  flavored  ones  use  little 
water;  add  salt  before  the  vegetables  and  cook  in  an  un- 
covered kettle  and  they  will  retain  their  full  flavor  and 
bright  green  color.  When  a  quantity  of  water  is  used  to 
cook  such  vegetables  as  peas,  spinach,  string  beans,  etc., 
much  of  the  valuable  properties  of  the  food  are  lost  and 
thrown  away.  Many  vegetables  are  overcooked  until  the 
best  flavor  is  entirely  destroyed.  Cabbage  is  an  example; 
it  is  usually  cooked  until  limp  and  heavy,  and  while  it  may 
taste  palatable,  is  most  indigestible.  Cabbage  cooks  very 
quickly  and  is  done  when  tender. 

Mayonnaise  dressing  separates  if  the  oil  is  added  too 
quickly  or  if  all  the  ingredients  are  not  of  the  same  temper- 
ature. 

A  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  added  to  the  egg 
yolks  before  any  of  the  oil  is  used  will  aid  in  keeping  the 
dressing  smooth.  If  the  dressing  should  curdle  add  it  very 
slowly  to  another  egg  yolk. 

French  dressing  should  be  thick.  This  is  easily  accom- 
plished by  putting  all  the  ingredients  in  a  small  covered 
fruit  jar  and  shaking  until  the  mixture  thickens. 

Fried  foods,  as  croquettes,  fritters,  doughnuts,  etc.,  be- 
come soaked  with  fat  if  the  oil  or  lard  they  are  fried  in  was 
not  sufficiently  heated.  The  temperature  of  the  fat  should 
be  tested  before  any  food  is  fried,  and  this  should  be  re- 
peated each  time  food  is  added,  as  the  fat  usually  cools 
somewhat  with  each  addition  of  cold  food.  Heat  fat  until 
a  faint  trace  of  smoke  can  be  seen  over  the  surface,  then 
test.  It  should  never  be  heated  until  the  kitchen  is  filled 
with  an  unpleasant  haze  of  smoke.    If  properly  done,  deep 


[20]  MRS.  DE  GRAF'S  COOK  BOOK 

fat  frying  will  be  more  satisfactory  and  food  will  absorb 
less  fat  than  when  cooked  in  a  frying  pan. 

Sauces  and  gravies  have  a  layer  of  fat  on  top  when  more 
fat  is  used  than  flour.  The  flour  and  fat  should  be  in  equal 
quantities;  allow  from  1  to  2  tablespoonfuls  of  each  to  a 
cupful  of  liquid,  according  to  the  thickness  desired  for  the 
sauce. 

Omelets  are  tough  when  cooked  too  rapidly.  Dump- 
lings are  heavy  if  the  liquid  is  not  kept  constantly  boiling 
and  if  the  cover  of  the  kettle  does  not  fit  closel}/^  or  has  been 
removed  before  the  dumplings  are  cooked.  They  should 
be  dropped  into  rapidly  boiling  liquid,  covered  closely  and 
cooked  12  minutes  before  cover  is  removed. 

True  sponge  cakes  (those  made  without  baking  powder) 
are  coarse  in  texture  and  dry  if  eggs  are  not  carefully  beaten 
with  a  whip  egg  beater  to  inclose  all  the  air  possible,  then 
baked  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

Baking  powder  biscuits,  muffins  and  all  quick  breakfast 
breads  require  a  hot  oven  or  they  will  not  be  light. 

Popover  and  cream  puff's  fall  when  they  have  not  been 
baked  long  enough. 

Cakes  that  rise  in  the  center  and  crack  have  been  baked 
in  too  hot  an  oven  or  contain  too  much  flour. 

Cakes  that  are  soggy  in  the  center  have  not  been 
thoroughly  baked.  The  center  is  the  last  part  to  bake,  and 
before  removing  from  the  oven  touch  the  center  lightly; 
if  the  finger  makes  an  imprint  the  cake  is  not  baked 
sufficiently;  if  it  springs  back  the  cake  is  done. 

To  prevent  milk  from  separating  when  making  a  cream 
of  tomato  soup,  heat  milk  and  add  the  thickening.  Com- 
bine milk  and  tomatoes  just  before  serving. 

Boiled  or  baked  custards  that  have  curdled  have  been 
cooked  too  fast  or  too  long.  A  boiled  custard  that  has 
curdled  may  be  redeemed  by  pouring  the  mixture  imme- 
diately into  a  cold  bowl  and  beating  until  smooth  with  a 
rotary  egg  beater.  It  will  never  be  quite  so  creamy,  how- 
ever. Baked  custard  and  all  forms  of  custard  puddings 
should  be  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  bake.  This  will 
usually  prevent  too  rapid  cooking.  The  water  is  kept 
below  the  boiling  point. 


MRS.   DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [21] 

Fruit  cake  is  light  in  color  if  baked  too  rapidly;  it  is  also 
apt  to  be  bitter. 

Cereals  should  be  cooked  in  boiling  water.  They  should 
cook  directly  over  the  fire  for  5  minutes;  then  cook  over 
hot  water  (in  a  double  boiler)  for  the  time  required.  Cereal 
cannot  be  completely  cooked  directly  over  the  flame,  as  it 
soon  thickens  and  then  will  burn.  The  starch  requires 
cooking  to  be  digestible,  and  cooking  over  hot  water  is  the 
only  method  whereby  it  is  possible  to  cook  cereal  suffi- 
ciently. 

These  are  only  a  few  suggestions,  and  yet  the  success 
of  cookery  depends  much  upon  such  details,  unimportant 
as  they  seem. 


221  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 


Oven  Regulation 


The  importance  of  oven  regulation  cannot  be  over- 
estimated. Good  food  can  easily  be  completely  ruined  in 
baking.  A  tender,  juicy  roast  can  be  changed  into  a  tough, 
dry  piece  of  meat.  Perfectly  made  pastry  may  become 
tough  and  soggy  in  the  baking.  Breakfast  breads  will  be 
light  or  heavy,  depending  upon  the  oven  heat.  All  this 
has  been  realized  by  many  stove  manufacturers,  and  de- 
vices have  been  installed  which  will  guide  the  housewife 
in  the  operation  of  the  oven.  Tables  of  temperatures  refer 
to  a  thermometer  placed  inside  the  oven,  as  near  the  center 
as  possible.  These  figures  cannot  always  be  followed  ex- 
actly, with  the  attachments  placed  in  oven  doors,  etc. 
But  a  very  little  study  will  soon  enable  the  operator  to 
know  just  what  the  indicator  should  register  for  the  differ- 
ent heats.  For  example,  biscuits  require  a  hot  oven,  450 
degrees  Fahrenheit.  This  would  mean  the  degrees  of  heat 
registered  by  a  thermometer  placed  in  the  oven.  A 
thermometer  placed  on  the  oven  door  would  be  affected 
by  the  colder  air  of  the  room,  so  it  would  probably  be 
necessary  to  allow  the  indicator  to  reach  500  degrees 
Fahrenheit.  This  can  readily  be  determined  after  a  few 
trials.  For  these  attachments  the  table  of  temperatures 
will  only  serve  as  a  guide.  For  those  who  have  no  oven 
regulator,  and  who  experience  difficulty  in  managing  the 
oven,  I  would  suggest  purchasing  an  oven  thermometer. 
It  will  soon  pay  for  itself  in  the  saving  of  food,  will  give 
the  inexperienced  housewife  more  confidence,  and  enable 
her  to  attempt  dishes  she  formerly  felt  were  impossible. 

A  gas  oven  should  not  be  lighted  until  just  before  it  is 
to  be  used,  depending  upon  how  hot  an  oven  is  desired. 
With  two  burners  lighted,  8  to  10  minutes  should  make 
the  oven  very  hot,  and  5  to  6  minutes  is  sufficient  for  a 
medium  heat.  Of  course,  this  will  vary  somewhat, 
depending  on  the  type  of  range  and  the  quality  and 
pressure  of  the  gas. 

All  food  materials  are  poor  conductors  of  heat,  and  it 
takes  time  for  the  heat  to  penetrate.  The  length  of  time 
and  temperature  will  depend  upon  the  size  and  thickness 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [23] 

of  the  food.  A  cake  baked  in  a  brick-shaped  pan — pro- 
ducing a  cake  like  a  loaf  of  bread,  high  and  narrow — will 
take  twice  as  long  to  bake  as  the  same  cake  baked  in  a 
shallow  pan.  The  brick-shaped  loaf  also  requires  much 
more  skill  to  bake  than  does  the  cake  baked  in  a  shallow 
pan.  In  baking  flour  mixtures,  the  larger  the  mass  the 
lower  the  temperature  must  be  in  order  to  have  the  heat 
penetrate  to  the  center  before  a  crust  has  been  formed. 
If  a  cake  is  placed  in  too  hot  an  oven,  it  forms  a  crust 
before  it  has  risen  sufficiently.  This  aff'ects  the  texture 
of  the  cake  and  produces  a  cake  high  in  the  center  and 
thin  on  the  edges.  It  can  readily  be  seen  that  it  is  neces- 
sary to  overbake  the  cake  at  the  edges  in  order  to  bake 
the  center.  This  will  mean  a  waste,  because  the  edges  will 
be  either  burned  or  so  crisp  and  hard  it  must  be  removed. 

Thin  loaves  of  bread  or  cake  and  small  pieces  of  meat 
need  much  less  time  for  cooking,  because  the  heat  pene- 
trates quickly.  Mixtures  containing  much  sugar  or  molasses 
burn  easily.  Foods  containing  a  large  proportion  of  eggs 
require  a  low  temperature,  or  they  will  become  tough.  An 
oven  filled  with  food  from  which  a  quantity  of  steam  is 
being  given  off  requires  more  heat  than  when  only  one 
small  dish  of  food  is  being  baked. 

When  roasting  meat,  the  careful  housewife  will  plan  to 
utilize  the  heat  for  other  foods,  too — potatoes,  pudding, 
or  even  vegetables.  If  the  meat  is  to  be  broiled,  then 
advantage  should  be  taken  of  the  hot  oven,  having  bis- 
cuits, cornbread,  or  a  shortcake.  A  little  study  will  work 
out  all  these  problems  and  lessen  both  the  fuel  bills  and 
labor. 

Most  housewives  use  too  hot  an  oven,  particularly  when 
gas  is  used.  One  must  bear  in  mind  that  if  the  gas  is 
left  burning  high,  the  oven  heat  will  increase  very  rapidly. 
After  the  oven  has  reached  the  heat  desired — hot,  medium, 
or  slow —  turn  the  gas  down  until  just  a  small  flame  is 
visible.  The  oven  will  then  maintain  an  even  heat.  Of 
course,  it  will  be  necessary  to  vary  this  rule  somewhat, 
depending  upon  the  size  and  quantity  of  the  food  and  how 
long  it  is  to  be  baked.  Very  few  foods  require  a  hot  oven 
for  any  length  of  time.  A  tender  roast  of  meat  needs  a 
hot  oven  to  cause  it  to  brown  at  once,  so  as  to  form  a 


[24]  MRS.  DE  GRAF'S  COOK  BOOK 

crust  which  will  keep  the  juices  from  escaping.  As  soon 
as  this  crust  is  formed  (10  to  15  minutes),  the  heat  should 
be  reduced  and  only  a  medium  oven  is  necessary  for  the 
remainder  of  the  cooking.  Biscuits  require  a  hot  oven  for 
the  entire  time  of  baking — about  18  minutes  for  the 
medium-sized  ones.  All  other  breakfast  breads  need  a 
fairly  hot  oven.  Cakes  need  only  a  medium  oven,  and  the 
richer  the  cake  batter,  the  slower  the  mixture  should  bake. 

Wood  and  coal  ranges  are  regulated  in  about  the  same 
manner,  the  oven  being  heated  to  the  right  temperature 
beforehand  and  adding  more  fuel  in  small  quantities  only 
as  required  to  keep  an  even  heat. 

To  test  the  oven  without  a  thermometer,  take  a  piece 
of  white  paper.  Place  in  the  oven  after  it  has  been  heated 
10  minutes,  reducing  the  heat,  if  using  gas.  If  the  paper 
burns  black  in  5  minutes,  the  oven  is  very  hot;  if  it  burns 
a  deep  brown,  it  is  hot.  For  the  medium  oven  the  paper 
should  be  a  golden  brown  in  5  minutes.  For  a  slow  oven 
it  should  barely  turn  the  most  delicate  brown  in  5  minutes. 

All  of  these  tests  need  a  little  study,  and  each  person 
will  have  to  work  out  their  own  problem,  but  these  guides 
are  an  aid  in  regulating  the  oven. 

Oven  Temperatures 

Reduce 

Enter  at  and  keep 

Deg.  F.  Deg.  F. 

Roast  meats 450  360 

Fish 400  360 

White  bread  (yeast) 425  350 

Cookies 350  350 

Entire  wheat  bread 360  340 

Pastry 425  425 

Breakfast  breads 425  400 

Ginger  breads 350  300 

Cake 350  300 

Sponge  cake 320  300 

Custard 325  300 

These  temperatures  are  for  gas  stoves,  and  should  be 
lowered  about  50  deg.  F.  for  a  wood  and  coal  range. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [25 


Menu  Building 


Planning  meals  day  after  day  is  one  of  the  most  difficult 
tasks  for  the  housewife,  and  this  particular  branch  of  the 
housekeeping  system  needs  as  much  skill  and  judgment  as 
the  preparation  and  cooking  of  foods.  With  an  almost 
unlimited  variety  of  foods  to  choose  from,  the  housewife 
should  know  how  to  select  those  foods  which  will  prove 
nutritious  and  give  the  greatest  return  of  energy  to  the 
body  for  the  money  she  has  to  spend.  Wise  economy 
demands  that  foods  should  be  so  combined  that  there  will 
be  no  waste  of  either  material  or  energy. 

In  order  to  plan  foods  wisely,  the  housewife  should 
understand  how  the  various  foods  differ  in  nutritive  values. 
The  foods  selected  depend  largely  upon  climate  and  season. 
In  localities  where  the  summer  months  are  warm,  foods 
which  would  be  very  acceptable  in  winter  would  prove 
anything  but  appetizing  served  on  a  hot  day. 

A  generous  amount  of  fat  and  starch  may  be  served 
when  the  weather  is  cold,  but  these  must  be  avoided  during 
the  summer,  green  salads,  jellied  soups,  and  light  cold 
desserts  or  fruits  taking  their  places. 

Dishes  containing  the  food  principles  in  the  same  pro- 
portion should  not  be  served  together.  A  well-balanced 
meal  contains  neither  too  much  protein,  starch,  sugar,  or 
fat. 

To  meet  this  requirement,  the  housewife  must  have 
some  knowledge  of  food  values.  The  substances  found  in 
foods  have  been  divided  into  five  classes,  called  food 
principles.  These  are  water,  fat,  mineral  matter,  starch 
and  sugar  (called  carbohydrates),  and  protein.  Scarcely 
any  food  is  made  up  of  any  one  of  these  food  principles, 
almost  all  containing  several  in  combination.  Most  of  the 
fat  is  obtained  in  butter,  olive  oil,  other  oils,  and  fat  of 
meats,  etc.  The  use  of  fat  to  the  body  is  to  give  energy 
and  heat.  If  more  fat  is  taken  than  is  required  for  im- 
mediate use,  it  is  stored  in  the  body  ready  to  use  when 
sufficient  fat  has  not  been  consumed. 

Mineral  matter  is  found  in  most  of  the  vegetables,  and 
in  all  fruits;  also  in  meat  and  milk.     In  fact,  nearly  all 


[26]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

foods  contain  some  mineral  salts.  As  a  rule  this  require- 
ment is  taken  care  of  in  the  diet  of  the  average  adult,  but 
food  for  growing  children  should  contain  a  quantity  of 
mineral  matter. 

Sugar  and  starch  comes  under  one  heading,  as  starch  is 
changed  into  sugar  in  the  process  of  digestion.  These  foods 
supply  heat  and  energy  to  the  body,  and  the  amount 
necessary  for  an  individual  will  depend  largely  upon  the 
kind  of  work  he  does.  For  heavy,  muscular  labor  and  for 
active,  growing  children,  more  starch  and  sugar  are  re- 
quired than  for  the  clerk,  student,  or  elderly  person. 

Protein  is  the  most  important  food  principle,  and  the 
foremost  protein  foods  are  meat,  fish,  eggs,  milk,  cheese, 
and  most  varieties  of  nuts.  There  are  a  few  vegetables 
rich  in  protein  as  well  as  starch.  These  are  peas,  beans, 
and  lentils.  When  planning  a  meal  with  a  limited  serv- 
ing of  meat,  as  when  using  left-overs,  any  one  of  these 
vegetables  will  supply  the  necessary  protein.  Beans, 
cooked  with  some  fat,  may  entirely  take  the  place  of  meat. 

If  the  menu  is  rich  in  starch,  select  a  vegetable  contain- 
ing a  high  percentage  of  water.  Do  not  serve  two  dishes 
at  one  meal  where  a  cream  sauce  has  been  used — for 
example,  a  creamed  soup  and  a  creamed  vegetable,  or 
creamed  fish  or  meat  and  creamed  vegetable  or  soup. 
Never  serve  strong  flavored  vegetables  together,  such  as 
onions,  cauliflower,  cabbage,  turnips,  or  parsnips.  Do  not 
have  rice,  macaroni,  or  potatoes  served  at  one  meal. 

A  green  salad  should  be  served  with  a  heavy  dinner.  A 
hearty  salad  of  fish  or  meat,  combined  with  mayonnaise 
dressing,  supplies  the  main  course  at  luncheon  or  supper, 
but  is  much  too  heavy  for  a  dinner  where  meat  and 
vegetables  are  served.  With  a  main  dish  of  macaroni  and 
cheese,  prepared  with  a  cream  sauce  (a  dish  ricli  in  protein 
and  starch),  such  vegetables  as  spinach,  a  green  salad,  or 
tomatoes,  cooked  or  raw,  will  prove  appetizing,  while  any 
of  the  beans,  dried  or  green,  would  make  the  meal  too 
heavy. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [27] 

The  following  offer  some  suggestions  in  menu  building: 

I 

Roast  Beef,  Franconia  Potatoes 

Yorkshire  Pudding 

Creamed  Carrots 

Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad 

French  Dressing 

Prune  Whip,  Custard  Sauce 

Coffee 

II 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

Fried  Tenderloin  of  Sole 

Tartar  Sauce 

Duchess  Potatoes,  String  Beans 

Cucumber  Salad 

Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 

Coffee 

III 

Vegetable  Soup 

Breaded  Veal  Cutlets 

Tomato  Sauce 

Potatoes  O'Brien,  Sugared  Beets 

Strawberries  and  Cream 

Drop  Cookies 

IV 

Fruit  Cocktail 

Lamb  Chops 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Combination  Salad 

French  Dressing 

Caramel  Custard 

Coffee 


28]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 


Food  Value  of  Fat 


Fat  is  one  of  the  most  important  foods,  as  it  is  the 
greatest  source  of  reserve  energy.  It  is  also  required  to  lu- 
bricate the  body  and  when  taken  in  reasonable  quantities 
is  easily  digested  by  persons  in  normal  health.  Starch  is 
digested  mainly  in  the  mouth;  protein  (lean  meat,  eggs, 
cheese,  fish)  in  the  stomach;  fats  are  changed  but  little 
until  they  reach  the  small  intestine,  then  they  are  divided 
into  tiny  portions  and  are  carried  to  the  blood.  Fats  rank 
in  digestibility  as  follows:  first  butter  and  cream,  then 
olive  oil;  other  vegetable  oils  such  as  cottonseed,  corn  and 
peanut  oil;  oleomargarine,  beef  fat  and  last  the  various  pork 
fats.  Margarines  are  used  as  butter  substitutes  and  rank 
with  butter  in  fuel  value  in  proportion  to  fat  content.  But 
butter  contains  the  valuable  fat  soluble  vitamines  so 
necessary  to  growth,  especially  of  children.  Margarines  do 
not  possess  this  quality,  so  are  not  as  desirable  to  use  in 
children's  diet,  although  the  adult  may  use  margarine  in 
place  of  butter,  as  the  diet  for  the  normal  grown  person  will 
include  these  vitamines  in  other  foods. 

Nature  has  taught  us  to  take  fats  in  combination  with 
other  foods,  as  it  is  more  palatable  in  that  form.  We 
spread  butter  on  bread,  or  steak,  and  add  it  to  boiled 
vegetables,  potatoes,  etc.,  or  cut  with  an  acid  we  pour  oils 
over  lettuce.  Anything  which  aids  in  the  division  of  the 
oil,  helps  in  its  digestion  and  assimilation.  From  this  it 
would  seem  that  pastry  might  not  be  indigestible.  But  as 
already  stated  starch  is  digested  mainly  in  the  mouth,  and 
if  the  starch  or  flour  in  pastry  be  mixed  with  layers  of  fat, 
how  can  the  saliva  permeate  through  these  layers  and 
digest  the  starch?  Well  made,  light  flaky  pastrv  can  be 
eaten  in  moderation  without  causing  indigestion,  but 
pastry  should  not  be  served  too  frequently. 

When  using  fat  for  cooking  do  not  allow  it  to  become 
over-heated.  Fats  heated  to  the  smoking  point  become 
decomposed;  when  such  fat  is  eaten  it  can  be  an  irritation 
which  produces  indigestion.  The  temperature  of  diflPerent 
fats  vary.  Butter  when  heated  to  the  point  when  it 
bubbles  and  foams  is  about  the  heat  of  boiling  water.    If 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [29] 

heated  beyond  the  bubbling  point,  it  is  considerably 
hotter  than  the  boiling  point  of  water.  If  fat  bubbles  when 
heated,  there  is  water  present  and  it  is  the  water  which  is 
boiling;  when  the  fat  ceases  to  boil  the  water  has  been 
evaporated  and  the  fat  is  ready  to  use.  Since  fat  when 
over-cooked  is  very  unwholesome,  it  is  essential  to  know 
how  to  use  this  important  food  so  that  it  will  be  beneficial 
and  not  a  detriment  by  daily  use. 

As  fats  have  more  than  twice  the  energy  value  of  the 
other  food  principles,  there  is  no  reason  to  question  their 
general  wholesomeness.  The  housewife  will  need  to 
consider  how  much  and  in  what  form  fats  should  be  given 
to  her  family.  Only  a  certain  amount  is  needed  for  im- 
mediate use  in  the  body,  the  excess  consumed  being  stored 
for  future  use.  Butter,  cream  and  quantities  of  whole  milk 
are  the  best  fats  for  children,  and  foods  cooked  in  hot  fat 
should  not  be  given  children  at  all. 

How  to  Render  Fat 

Remove  all  skin  and  membrane.  Put  leaf  lard  or  beef 
suet  through  the  food  chopper  then  place  in  the  upper  part 
of  a  double  boiler  and  set  over  boiling  water.  This  is  a 
quick  method  and  the  fat  will  remain  white.  A  very  good 
combination  is  to  use  1  part  leaf  lard  to  2  parts  beef  suet. 
When  the  fat  is  rendered  drain  through  a  fine  sieve  or 
cheese  cloth  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  but  still 
in  liquid  form  beat  with  a  whip  egg  beater  until  the  fat  is 
firm  and  white.  This  mixture  if  beaten  in  this  manner 
does  not  become  tallowy  and  hard.  If  lard  is  not  liked  use 
3^  corn  oil.  This  fat  can  be  used  as  a  shortening  for  pastry 
or  biscuit  doughs  or  for  frying. 


CHAPTER  TWO 

BEVERAGES-HOT  AND  COLD 
FRUITS 
GARNISHES 
APPETIZERS 


32]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 


Composition  of  Tea 


XCEPT  for  the  sugar  and  cream  that  may  be  taken 
with  it,  tea  possesses  no  nutritive  qualities.  It 
is  somewhat  stimulating  and  very  mildly  exhila- 
rating. The  stimulating  principle,  theine,  and 
the  essential  oil,  which  gives  fragrance,  are  the  desirable 
elements.  Tannin,  a  bitter  astringent  substance,  is  the 
undesirable  element.  The  problem  in  making  tea  is  to 
bring  out  the  stimulating  qualities  and  fragrant  oil,  and 
to  avoid  the  tannin.  This  can  only  be  accomplished  by 
pouring  freshly  boiling  water  over  the  tea  for  fiv^  minutes. 
Water  under  the  boiling  point  will  not  develop  the  flavor, 
and  if  the  leaves  remain  in  the  water  over  five  minutes, 
the  tannin  is  apparent.  If  the  leaves  are  boiled,  tannin 
will  be  extracted  in  quantity. 

Making  of  Tea 

By  freshly  boiling  water  is  meant  water  freshly  drawn 
and  boiled  at  once.  Using  a  tea  ball  is  one  of  the  best 
methods  to  make  tea.  It  can  be  attached  to  the  cover  or 
nozzle  of  the  tea  pot  by  the  chain,  and  at  the  end  of  five 
minutes,  be  withdrawn.  Scald  the  pot  before  setting 
away,  and  again  before  using.  The  proper  proportion  of 
tea  will  vary  with  the  quality  and  taste.  Usually  one 
teaspoonful  will  be  ample  for  each  cup  of  freshly  boiled 
water.  Earthenware,  china,  silver,  or  aluminum  are  all 
satisfactory  materials  for  a  tea  pot. 

Coffee 

CofFee  has  no  food  value  except  when  milk  and  sugar 
are  used.  Tannin  is  also  present  in  coffee,  but  in  less 
quantity  than  in  tea,  and  is  not  extracted  so  readily  as 
from  the  more  delicate  tea  leaves.  When  roasting,  the 
beans  throw  off  moisture  and  develop  flavor.  Coffee  also 
possesses  a  mildly  stimulating  effect,  due  to  caffeine  and 
the  essential  oil.  To  make  good  coffee  requires  a  pure 
brand  of  coffee  and  a  perfectly  clean  coffee  pot,  free 
from  discoloratlons. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [33] 

To  Make  Cofifee  in  a  Coffee  Pot 

Allow  1  tablespoon  of  medium  ground  coffee  for  each 
cup  of  boiling  water.  Heat  the  pot,  add  coffee,  then  pour 
over  the  boiling  water;  set  over  the  fire,  bring  to  the  boiling 
point,  and  remove  from  the  fire.  Let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  for  5  minutes.  Add  34  cup  of  cold  water  to  make  the 
coffee  clear.  When  made  by  this  method,  coffee  contains 
a  minimum  amount  of  caffeine  and  tannin. 

Percolator  Coffee 

The  old  fashioned  coffee  pot  has  been  replaced  by  the 
more  modern  percolator.  For  this  method  of  coffee 
making,  the  beans  should  be  ground  very  fine.  Allow 
1  tablespoonful  of  the  finely  ground  coffee  for  each  cupful 
of  water  used.  Set  over  the  fire  and  let  percolate  about 
5  minutes,  according  to  the  strength  desired.  Hot  or 
cold  water  may  be  used. 

Filtered  Coffee 

This  method  of  making  coffee  is  preferred  by  many 
persons.  It  requires  a  special  pot,  and  full  directions  for 
making  are  furnished  with  each  pot.  The  essentials  are 
a  heated  pot  and  boiling  water. 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate 

Theobromine  is  the  stimulating  element  in  cocoa  beans, 
and  is  much  less  pronounced  in  its  effect  than  the  corre- 
sponding principles  in  tea  and  coffee.  The  high  percentage 
of  fat,  together  with  other  food  principles,  places  this 
beverage  in  the  class  with  foods.  As  a  rule,  when  making 
cocoa  or  chocolate,  follow  the  recipes  found  on  the  package. 
It  will  be  well  to  bear  in  mind,  however,  that  boiling  will 
greatly  improve  it.  Beating  constantly  with  an  egg 
beater  while  cooking  will  thoroughly  mix  the  ingredients 
and  prevent  a  thin  skin  from  rising  to  the  surface. 

Beef  Tea 

Like  tea,  coffee,  and  chocolate,  there  is  a  principle  in 
meat  which  is  stimulating.  These  are  soluble  in 
water,  and  when  extracted,  make  a  beverage  which 
stimulates  the  appetite.  Being  easily  digested,  beef  tea  is 
good  for  convalescents  and  beneficial  when  one  is  tired. 


[34]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

How  to  Make  Beef  Tea 

Yi  pound  of  rotind  of  beef.  34  teaspoon  of  salt. 

2  cups  of  cold  water. 

Put  meat  through  the  food  chopper.  Cover  with  water, 
add  salt,  and  let  stand  an  hour.  Put  in  the  upper  part  of  a 
double  boiler,  fill  the  under  part  with  cold  water,  set  the 
meat  over  it,  and  cook  over  the  water  about  2  hours, 
keeping  the  water  underneath  below  the  boiling  point. 
Strain  and  serve. 

Cool,  Refreshing  Drinks 

All  fruit  juices  make  refreshing  drinks  and  punches. 
The  fruit  syrups  may  be  made  and  some  kinds  can  be  pur- 
chased ready  for  use.  The  best  lemonade  is  made  from 
prepared  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  two  cups  each  of  water 
and  sugar  and  a  thin  shaving  of  lemon  peel  boiled  for 
about  ten  minutes,  removing  any  scum  which  may  gather 
on  the  surface;  cool  and  add  the  juice  of  six  to  eight  lemons. 
Allow  two  tablespoons  of  the  lemon  syrup  for  each  glass 
of  water. 

Partially  fill  each  glass  with  shaved  or  crushed  ice  be- 
fore pouring  in  the  lemonade.  If  one  does  not  possess  an 
ice  shaver  have  a  small,  stout  canvas  bag  and  pound  the 
ice  to  the  consistency  of  snow.  This  insures  the  mixture 
cooling  at  once  and  adds  greatly  to  the  attractiveness  of 
the  drink.  This  only  applies  to  cool  drinks  served  in  tall 
glasses,  and  not  those  served  from  a  punch  bowl. 

Chocolate  syrup  is  made  by  taking  3^  cup  of  ground 
chocolate,  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  boiling  water. 
Mix  and  boil  about  5  minutes.  Cool,  add  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  store  in  a  tightly  covered  jar  or  bottle.  For 
iced  chocolate  use  1  tablespoon  syrup  to  ^  cup  of  milk; 
pour  over  shaved  or  pounded  ice  and  put  a  tablespoon 
whipped  cream  on  top. 

A  chocolate  eggnog  is  particularly  refreshing  and  nour- 
ishing as  well,  and  can  be  given  to  both  old  and  young. 
Beat  1  egg  white  very  stiff,  then  add  gradually,  while 
constantly  beating,  1  tablespoon  ground  chocolate  and  a 
few  grains  of  salt;  take  out  about  3^  of  this  mixture,  and 
to  remaining  portion  add  gradually  1  cup  cold  milk,  con- 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [35] 

stantly  beating.  Put  the  remainder  of  the  mixture  on  top 
and  serve. 

Coffee  syrup  is  useful  to  have  on  hand  also.  Make  1 
pint  of  strong  coffee;  strain,  add  2  cups  sugar  and  boil 
about  5  minutes.  Cool  and  store  in  a  bottle  or  tightly 
covered  jar.  Use  2  tablespoons  of  the  coffee  syrup  to  ^ 
cup  milk,  pour  over  shaved  ice  and  add  1  tablespoon  cream 
either  whipped  or  plain;  a  little  nutmeg  may  be  sprinkled 
over  the  top.  Both  the  iced  chocolate  and  coffee  make 
excellent  warm-weather  luncheon  drinks  and  offer  a  change 
from  the  usual  iced  tea.  And,  by  the  way,  iced  tea  should 
be  made  fresh  and  used  at  once  if  it  is  to  be  at  its  best. 
Always  make  tea  with  water  which  has  been  freshly 
boiled.  For  iced  tea  make  a  little  stronger  than  usual, 
and  steep  only  4  minutes,  then  pour  in  tall  glasses  3^  full 
of  shaved  or  crushed  ice.  Add  thin  slices  of  lemon  and 
pass  powdered  sugar.  For  a  tea  punch  chill  tea;  add  3^ 
as  much  lemon  juice  as  tea.  Keep  very  cold  and  just 
before  serving  add  1  small  bottle  of  ginger  die  for  every  2 
quarts  of  tea. 

For  those  persons  who  enjoy  the  flavor  of  chocolate,  but 
do  not  care  to  indulge  in  fattening  foods,  cocoa  may  be 
freely  used.  Cocoa  is  almost  free  of  the  rich  fats  contained 
in  chocolate. 

Orange  Julip 

3  oranges.  2  cups  boiling  water. 

1  grapefruit.  1  pint  ginger  ale. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  spray  fresh  mint. 

Extract  orange  and  grapefruit  juice.  Boil  sugar  and 
water  5  minutes;  cool  and  add  to  fruit  juice.  Just  before 
serving  add  ginger  ale.  Fill  bottom  of  glass  with  crushed 
ice,  add  a  small  bit  of  the  bruised  mint,  then  fill  glasses 
with  liquid.  Thin  quartered  slices  of  orange  or  cherries 
may  be  added. 

Honolulu  Fizz 

For  each  service  allow:  3^  cup  pineapple  juice,  ^  cup 
sparkling  cider,  1  egg  white,  tiny  spray  mint  crushed. 
Put  ingredients  into  a  shaker  or  jar  and  shake  vigorously 
for  3  or  4  minutes.    Pour  at  once  over  crushed  ice. 


[36]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Fruit  Cup 

1  quart  cooked  sweetened  1  cup  sugar. 

loganberries.  1  cup  water  (ice  water). 

3  lemons  (juice  only). 

Boil  sugar  and  water  5  minutes;  cool,  add  fruit  and 
lemon  juice  and  let  stand  about  2  hours.  Strain  and 
dilute  with  ice  water  to  the  desired  strength. 

Lemon  Whey 

1  cup  hot  milk.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

Yl  lemon  (juice  only). 

Add  lemon  juice  to  milk  and  cook  over  a  very  low  fire 
or  in  a  double  boiler  until  whey  separates.  Do  not  stir. 
Strain  through  a  cheesecloth,  add  sugar  and  chill.  Serve 
with  thin  slices  of  lemon.    A  very  refreshing  drink. 


Fruit  Punch 

6  lemons  (juice  only).  2  cups  freshly  made  tea. 

6  oranges  (juice  only).  V/2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  grated  pineapple.  V/2  cups  water. 

2  cups  strawberry  syrup.  1  quart  apollinaris. 
1  cup  Maraschino  cherries.  1  gallon  ice  water. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  five  minutes.  Cool  and  add  tea, 
fruit  juices,  syrup  and  pineapple.  Let  stand  one  hour, 
then  strain.  Add  ice  water  and  pour  over  a  large  piece 
of  ice.  Then  add  apollinaris  and  cherries.  Sufficient  for 
40  persons. 


Southern  Punch 

4  cups  strong  tea.  1  cup  sugar. 

2  oranges  (juice  only).  1  cup  boiling  water. 

2  lemons  (juice  only).  1  banana. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  5  minutes.  Cool  and  add  orange 
and  lemon  juice.  Allow  4  level  teaspoons  tea  to  4  cups 
of  freshly  boiled  water.  Add  a  small  piece  of  orange  rind 
and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Strain  and  cool.  Combine 
mixtures.  Pour  over  crushed  ice  and  add  2  or  3  thin  slices 
of  banana  to  each  glass. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK  [37] 

Orangeade 

2  cups  sugar.  1  quart  water. 

2  cups  orange  juice.  Yi  cup  lemon  juice. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  5  minutes,  adding  orange  rinds. 
Strain,  chill,  add  fruit  juices  and  dilute  to  taste  with  ice 
water.  A  mint  leaf  may  be  added  to  each  glass.  Sufficient 
for  a  dozen  glasses. 

Pineapple  Lemonade 

1  cup  grated  pineapple.  IH  cups  sugar. 

3  lemons  (juice  only).  1  quart  ice  water. 
Yi  cup  hot  water. 

Boil  sugar  and  hot  water  about  5  minutes.  Cool,  add 
pineapple  and  lemon  juice.  Strain.  Add  ice  water  and 
serve.    This  makes  about  15  glasses. 

Grape  Punch 

1  cup  grape  juice.  1  orange  cut  in  thin  slices. 

2  lemons  (juice  only).  2  quarts  of  water. 
2  oranges  (juice  only).  IH  cups  sugar. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  for  5  minutes.  Cool,  add  re- 
maining ingredients  and  pour  over  cracked  ice.  Sufficient 
for  16  persons. 

College  Punch 

1  cup  grated  pineapple.  1  quart  fruit  juice  (grape, 

2  quarts  boiling  water.  loganberry  or  strawberry). 
2  cups  freshly  made  tea.                 4  cups  sugar. 

6  lemons  (juice  only).  1  quart  apoUinaris. 

6  oranges  (juice  only). 

Cook  pineapple,  sugar  and  water  together  about  IS 
minutes.  Strain  and  cool.  Add  fruit  juices  and  tea. 
An  hour  or  so  before  serving  pour  over  cracked  ice  and  add 
apollinaris.    Will  serve  about  40  persons. 

California  Punch 

1  quart  cooked  apricots  1  quart  apple  juice  or  apple 

(canned  or  dried).  cider. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  oranges  (juice  only). 
2  cups  water.  2  lemons  (juice  only). 

Rub  the  apricots  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Boil  sugar 
and  water  together  for  5  minutes,  then  add  apricot  pulp. 
Chill.  Let  stand  at  least  2  hours,  then  pour  over  cracked 
ice.    Sufficient  for  25  punch  cups. 


[38]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Fruit  Essential  in  the  Daily  Diet 

Fruit  is  really  indispensable  in  a  well  regulated  diet. 
Formerly  it  was  considered  an  accessory,  rather  than  an 
essential  food,  and  was  eaten  mainly  for  its  flavor  and  re- 
freshing qualities.  The  food  value  of  most  fruits  is  not 
high,  but  the  mineral  salts  they  contain  are  necessary  to 
good  health.  A  person  who  eats  quantities  of  fruit  is 
usually  in  excellent  health  and  has  a  clear  complexion,  due 
to  the  body  regulating  qualities  of  the  various  mineral 
salts  and  organic  acids  contained  in  fruit.  These  organic 
acids  impart  an  agreeable  acid  flavor  and  help  to  keep 
the  blood  in  good  condition.  Most  fruits  contain  a  large 
proportion  of  water,  also  of  value  in  the  diet. 

The  digestibility  of  fruit  depends  upon  both  the  nature 
of  the  fruit  and  its  degree  of  ripeness.  Neither  under  nor 
over  ripe  fruits  are  fit  to  eat  raw.  The  over-ripe  fruit 
should  be  discarded,  as  it  is  unfit  to  use  under  any  condi- 
tion; the  under-ripe  fruit  may  be  cooked  and  then  is 
easily  digested.  Starch  is  present  in  unripe  fruit,  but  is 
changed  in  the  ripe  fruit  into  sugar  and  gums. 

Uncooked  starch  is  not  easily  digested,  while  just  the 
opposite  is  true  of  the  fruit  sugars,  which  very  seldom  cause 
digestive  troubles,  such  as  may  be  produced  from  cane 
sugar.  Eating  under-ripe  fruit  often  causes  serious  results, 
especially  when  eaten  by  children.  In  the  unripe  condition 
the  starch  has  not  been  changed  to  sugar,  and  the  fruit, 
being  very  firm,  is  probably  not  masticated  completely, 
making  it  still  harder  to  digest.  A  ripe  peach  would  be 
more  easily  digested  than  a  firm  apple,  even  though  the 
apple  were  perfectly  ripe. 

Prunes,  figs,  dates,  raisins,  and  bananas  have  a  higher 
food  value  than  other  fruits.  All  these,  excepting  the 
banana,  contain  a  quantity  of  sugar,  as  well  as  mineral 
salts.  Bananas  are  largely  starch,  and  for  this  reason 
should  be  perfectly  ripe  or  cooked  before  eating.  All 
children  are  especially  fond  of  bananas,  but  it  is  much  safer 
to  bake  this  fruit  than  to  allow  them  to  eat  it  raw,  for  it  is 
usually  sold  under-ripe.  When  the  banana  is  in  a  fit  con- 
dition to  eat  raw,  the  skin   has   become  dark    and   the 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [39] 

pulp  dry  and  mealy.  Cooking  is  really  a  ripening  process, 
and  fruits  not  sufficiently  ripe  to  eat  raw  are  wholesome 
after  cooking. 

Raw  fruits  have  a  much  greater  tonic  value  than  the 
cooked  fruit,  but  to  many  persons  the  raw  fruit  is  indigest- 
ible; and  as  cooking  softens  the  fruit  and  converts  the 
starch  into  sugar,  it  is  then  more  easily  digested.  As  the 
cooking  process  drives  out  the  mineral  salts  and  acids  into 
the  liquid  in  which  the  fruit  is  cooked,  this  juice  must  be 
served  with  the  fruit,  or  much  of  its  value  is  lost.  Many  of 
the  valuable  mineral  salts  are  found  just  beneath  the  skin, 
so  these  should  be  retained  as  far  as  possible. 

Most  children  naturally  crave  fruit,  and  this  desire 
should  be  gratified  and  not  considered  an  indulgence.  It  is 
nature's  way  of  demanding  this  health-giving,  bone-build- 
ing material.  Even  babies,  after  three  months  old,  are 
given  small  quantities  of  orange  or  prune  juice,  gradually 
increasing  the  amount  as  the  child  grows  older.  Fruit 
beverages  offer  an  opportunity  to  introduce  acids  and  salts 
into  the  system.  These  are  always  found  refreshing.  Do 
not  serve  too  sweet,  or  they  will  not  quench  the  thirst. 

Uncooked  acid  fruits  should  not  be  served  in  combi- 
nation with  starchy  foods,  as  this  frequently  causes  indi- 
gestion. If  cereal  is  to  be  served  in  combination  with  fruit, 
the  fruit  should  be  cooked,  or  of  a  variety  which  is  sweet, 
not  acid.  As  fruit  contains  a  quantity  of  water,  very  little 
should  be  used  when  cooking.  Sugar  should  not  be  added 
until  the  fruit  is  cooked. 

Dried  fruits  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned,  then  soaked  in 
water  to  cover  for  several  hours,  in  order  to  regain  the  mois- 
ture which  has  been  evaporated.  They  should  be  cooked 
in  the  liquid  in  which  they  were  soaked,  heating  very 
slowly  and  keeping  under  the  boiling  point  until  tender. 
The  slow  cooking  develops  the  natural  fruit  sugars.  Prunes, 
raisins,  and  figs  will  require  no  sugar.  Other  dried  fruits 
may  need  a  small  quantity. 

Fruit  salads  offer  splendid  opportunities  for  serving  both 
fresh  and  cooked  fruits.  Such  salads  may  be  served  as  a 
salad  course  or  used  for  dessert.  Fruit  cocktails  are  pala- 
table and  serve  as  an  appetizer  for  dinner. 


[40]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

The  addition  of  sugar  to  cooked  fruit  greatly  increases 
its  nutritive  value  and  cooking  sugar  at  a  high  temperature 
in  conjunction  with  the  acid  of  the  fruit  brings  about  the 
inversion  of  the  sugar,  which  is  one  of  the  first  steps  in  its 
digestion. 

For  this  reason  jams,  marmalades,  and  preserves  are 
considered  one  of  the  most  wholesome  ways  in  which  sugar 
may  be  eaten. 

If  the  family  does  not  care  for  fruits  between  meals,  which 
is  really  one  of  the  best  times  to  eat  them,  see  that  fruit  in 
some  form  is  furnished  for  at  least  one  meal  a  day,  for  it  is  a 
necessary  part  of  the  daily  diet.  Do  not  consider  fruit  an 
extravagance  and  an  accessory.  If  we  are  to  have  healthy 
bodies,  fruit  is  an  essential,  and  although  its  actual  food 
value,  if  fresh,  is  not  high,  its  health-giving  properties  are 
a  necessity. 

Orange  or  Grapefruit  in  Sections 

Cut  the  orange  peel  in  eighths  from  the  stem  nearly  to 
the  blossom  end.  Carefully  loosen  the  peel,  then  the  sec- 
tions of  orange.  Place  on  a  serving  plate,  placing  a  table- 
spoon of  powdered  sugar  in  the  center.  The  peel  may  be 
made  to  form  a  border  by  rolling  the  points  inward  around 
the  base  of  the  orange. 

Oranges  and  Grapefruit 

Cut  fruit  in  halves  crosswise.  Cut  a  small  slice  from  the 
end  so  fruit  will  stand  level.  Loosen  the  pulp  with  a  sharp 
knife,  or  grapefruit  knife.  Remove  center  pith  and  mem- 
brane with  scissors. 

To  Remove  Pulp  of  Orange  and  Grapefruit  for 
Salads  and  Cocktails 

Peel  the  fruit  with  a  sharp  knife,  cutting  close  enough  to 
thefruitso  that  the  juice  will  run.  Cut  out  each  section  with 
a  sharp  pointed  knife.  There  will  be  very  little  waste  and 
each  section  should  be  whole. 


MRS.  DE  GRAF'S  COOK  BOOK  [41] 

Fresh  Fruit  Cocktail 

Select  grapefruit,  oranges,  bananas,  pineapple  and  white 
grapes  when  in  season.  Use  about  equal  portions  of  each. 
Remove  all  seeds,  membrane  and  skin.  Chill  thoroughly, 
sweeten  if  necessary  or  add  maraschino  syrup.  Arrange  in 
cocktail  glasses;  place  a  cherry  on  top  of  each  glass.  Serve 
very  cold. 

Strawberries  Au  Naturel 

Wash  berries  carefully  but  do  not  hull.  Drain  until 
dry.  Place  a  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar  in  the  center 
of  individual  service  plates.  Arrange  strawberries  around 
the  sugar  and  serve. 

Melon  Cocktail 

Have  equal  quantities  of  chilled  cantaloupe  and  water- 
melon. Cut  into  balls  with  a  small  French  vegetable 
cutter  or  cut  into  half-inch  cubes.  Arrange  in  cocktail 
glasses;  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt. 

Melons 

Serve  all  varieties  of  melons  very  cold.  Cut  watermelon 
in  halves  and  remove  the  fruit  of  each  in  one  piece.  Cut  in 
sections  the  shape  of  a  piece  of  pie,  remove  seeds  and 
serve.  This  method  disposes  of  much  of  the  water  so 
awkward  if  served  on  the  rind. 

Sliced  Oranges 

Peel  oranges  with  a  sharp  knife;  slice  very  thin  cross- 
wise. Arrange  on  individual  plates,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  serve  very  cold. 

Sliced  Peaches 

Scald  fruit  1  minute  with  boiling  water.  Dip  in  cold 
water  and  remove  skins.  If  to  stand  before  serving, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice  to  prevent  discolora- 
tion. 


[42]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Sliced  Bananas 

Select  ripe  fruit.  Remove  skin  and  scrape  outside  of  the 
fruit.  Slice  very  thin.  Do  not  prepare  until  shortly  before 
being  served. 

Fruit  Cocktail,  with  Sauce 

Remove  the  pulp  from  grapefruit  and  mix  with  diced 
pineapple,  diced  apple  and  sliced  banana.  Allow  3^  cup  of 
mixture  to  each  serving.  Chill  thoroughly,  add  cocktail 
sauce,  also  chilled,  and  serve  in  grapefruit  or  red  apple 
shells  or  glasses. 

Sauce  for  Fruit  Cocktail 

}/i  cup  tomato  cocktail  sauce  or  2  tablespoons  orange  juice- 
catsup,  y^  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  pa- 
\i  cup  white  grapejuice.  prika,  sugar  and  cloves. 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  J^  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  chill. 

Prunes — Stewed 

Wash  prunes,  cover  with  warm  water  and  soak  for 
several  hours,  over  night  if  possible.  Heat  slowly  in  water 
(in  which  they  were  soaked)  to  simmering  point  and  cook 
under  boiling  point  until  tender.  Rapid  cooking  destroys 
the  flavor  and  appearance  of  the  fruit.  Prunes  may  be 
flavored  with  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon  or  a  little  lemon 
or  orange  peel.  Slow  cooking  develops  the  natural  fruit 
sugars  and  little  if  any  sugar  is  required;  if  sugar  is  used, 
add  after  prunes  are  cooked  but  while  still  hot;  or  remove 
prunes,  add  sugar  to  juice  and  simmer  until  juice  is  some- 
what thickened.  A  fireless  cooker  is  excellent  for  cooking 
prunes.  Soak  as  directed  above;  then  heat  to  the  boiling 
point  and  set  in  the  fireless  (without  a  heated  stone)  for 
several  hours. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [43] 

Prune  Juice 

Wash  prunes,  cover  with  warm  water  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Heat  very  slowly  to  simmering  point,  cook  until 
tender;  don't  boil.  No  sugar  is  required.  Pour  off  juice, 
straining  through  fine  sieve.  The  prunes  left  can  be  used 
for  prune  desserts  requiring  prune  pulp. 


[44]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Garnishes 

To  garnish  a  dish  attractively  or  serve  it  in  an  appealing 
form  adds  very  little  to  its  cost,  takes  no  very  great  amount 
of  time,  and  makes  the  food  so  much  more  pleasing  in 
every  way.  There  is  nothing  which  so  quickly  indicates 
the  interest  the  housewife  takes  in  cooking  as  the  manner 
in  which  she  serves  food.  One  who  has  no  pride  in  her 
work  seldom  gives  thought  to  garnishing.  Daintily 
served  foods  encourage  appetite  and  aid  digestion.  This  is 
why  an  invalid's  tray  should  always  have  special  atten- 
tion, for  the  tastefully  decorated,  carefully  prepared  food 
may  tempt  a  delicate  appetite.  Convalescent  children  can 
often  be  induced  to  eat  food  which  appeals  to  their  imagi- 
nation, where  otherwise  the  dish  would  be  rejected.  A 
marshmallow  in  a  hot  cup  of  cocoa,  chocolate  or  milk  may 
be  just  the  thing  to  make  the  beverage  desirable. 

Many  busy  home  makers  are  unable  to  give  either  time 
or  thought  to  elaborate  garnishings,  but  all  food  may  be 
arranged  with  some  sort  of  symmetry  which  enchances  its 
appetite  appeal.  Mashed  potatoes  may  be  easily  arranged 
in  a  ring  on  a  flat  serving  dish  and  the  center  opening  left 
large  enough  to  hold  buttered  peas,  string  beans,  or 
asparagus  tips.  The  dish  looks  attractive  and  is  as  quickly 
done  as  arranging  in  two  separate  dishes,  and  there  is  one 
less  dish  to  be  washed. 

Chops  or  cutlets  can  be  placed  on  the  platter,  one  over- 
lapping the  other  in  the  center  of  the  dish;  or  placed  in  a 
circle  on  the  platter  and  the  center  filled  with  buttered 
peas  or  mashed  potatoes.  If  roasted  potatoes  are  on  the 
menu  use  as  a  garnish  on  the  platter  surrounding  the  meat. 
Or  perhaps  boiled  rice  is  to  take  the  place  of  potatoes;  if  so 
butter  a  custard  cup,  fill  with  hot  rice,  turn  out  at  once 
on  the  meat  platter  and  repeat  until  all  the  rice  is  used,  or 
arrange  in  a  ring.  Thin  slices  of  fried  bacon  make  a  good 
relish  as  well  as  garnish  for  meat  or  egg  dishes.  For 
special  occasions  mashed  potatoes  can  be  shaped  into 
individual  cup-shaped  forms,  brushed  over  with  beaten 
egg  and  then  browned  nicely  on  the  top  grate  of  a  rather 
hot  oven;  fill  the  center  with  a  cooked  vegetable.     If 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [45] 

stuffed  tomatoes  are  to  be  the  vegetable,  use  these  as  a 
garnish  for  the  roast.  Fried  eggplant  may  be  used  in  the 
same  manner.  Slices  of  tomato,  raw  or  dipped  in  crumbs 
and  fried,  are  nice  served  with  fried  or  baked  fish  or  broiled 
chicken.  In  fact,  these  are  only  a  few  suggestions  as  to 
the  possibilities  for  serving  food  in  an  appealing  way,  for 
everyday  use,  which  will  not  require  additional  labor,  such 
a  factor  in  these  days  when  there  are  so  many  interesting 
things  to  do. 

If  food  is  prepared  especially  for  garnishing,  it  should 
always  be  eatable.  Sandwiches  tied  with  ribbons  and 
attractive  bows  may  make  a  pretty  table,  but  are  certainly 
not  practical.  Have  all  the  decorations  desired  on  the 
table,  but  not  on  the  food  unless  it  is  edible. 

Slices  of  hard  cooked  eggs  surrounding  a  mold  of 
spinach;  radishes  cut  attractively  or  plain  olives,  ripe, 
green,  stuffed;  slices  of  lemon,  sprinkled  with  paprika  for 
fish;  potato  balls  dipped  in  melted  butter  and  finely 
chopped  parsley. 

Vegetable  borders  are  very  attractive  and  offer  a 
palatable  way  to  use  left-overs.  The  center  can  be  filled 
with  creamed  fish,  chicken  or  veal. 

Pork  or  lamb  chops  may  be  served  on  a  thin  layer  of 
tomato  sauce  or  surrounded  with  spaghetti  cooked  in  a 
tomato  sauce.  Pork  chops  or  sausage  may  be  accompanied 
by  rings  of  fried  apples. 

Small  croquettes  of  rice,  fried  a  golden  brown,  and  cubes 
of  currant  jelly  may  be  served  with  roast  game  or  fowl. 

Fried  or  baked  bananas  add  greatly  to  Salisbury  steak 
(chopped  raw  beef). 

Fruit  fritters  such  as  apple,  pineapple,  orange  and 
banana  may  be  served  with  both  steak  and  fried  chicken. 
Corn  fritters  can  be  cooked  on  a  griddle  like  pancakes,  and 
are  acceptable  with  almost  any  kind  of  meat  course.  Very 
small  portions  of  left-over  corn  may  be  made  into  these 
fritters. 

For  more  elaborate  garnishing  a  pastry  bag  and  tube  will 
be  required.  Very  little  practice  is  required  to  handle  a 
pastry  bag  skillfully  enough  for  these  simple  decorations. 
It  takes  only  a  second  to  fill  the  bag  with  creamy  mashed 
potatoes  and  when  forced  through  a  large  star  tube,  either 


[46]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

in  a  border  or  cup  shape,  to  be  filled  with  vegetables  or 
creamed  fish  or  meat,  an  otherwise  commonplace  dish  will 
assume  a  festive  appearance.  The  pastry  bag  can  be  made 
at  home  of  heavy  canvas,  in  a  cornucopia  shape,  and  the 
tubes  can  be  purchased  at  any  household  appliance  de- 
partment. One  or  two  tubes  are  all  that  are  needed,  so  it 
is  not  necessary  to  buy  an  expensive  outfit. 

A  garnish  may  be  used  for  appearance  only,  such  as 
parsley  or  slices  of  lemon;  or  for  a  food  such  as  hard  cooked 
eggs,  toast,  fritters,  etc.  Chopped  parsley  adds  flavor  as 
well  as  a  garnish  to  many  dishes.  If  lemons  are  to  serve  a 
double  purpose,  garnish  and  for  flavor,  they  should  be  cut 
so  the  pieces  can  be  handled  without  soiling  the  fingers. 
Bread  for  a  garnish  should  be  cut  the  desired  shape  (tri- 
angles, diamonds  or  rounds)  before  toasting.  Toast  is 
usually  used  as  a  garnish  with  creamed  dishes.  French 
fried  potatoes  or  potato  balls  rolled  in  minced  parsley  look 
and  taste  well  with  croquettes,  chops,  steaks  or  filets  of 
fish.  Garnishes  from  hard  cooked  eggs  are  numerous; 
they  may  be  cut  in  rings  or  quarters;  or  the  yolks  pressed 
through  a  sieve  and  the  whites  finely  chopped.  Figures 
cut  from  pickled  beets  or  just  sliced  beets  or  pickles  add  an 
attractive  touch,  both  as  a  relish  and  for  contrast  of  color. 
One  point  to  remember  is  that  the  garnish  should  be  appro- 
priate to  the  dish  and  it  should  not  crowd  the  food  it 
accompanies. 

Savory  appetizers  or  relishes  are  not  difl&cult  to  prepare. 
Canapes,  fish  and  fruit  cocktails,  raw  oysters  or  clams  are 
all  used  as  appetizers  to  begin  the  meal,  while  olives,  salted 
nuts,  spiced  fruits,  celery,  etc.,  are  passed  between  courses 
at  the  formal  meal  or  with  the  roast  at  the  informal  family 
meal. 

Canapes  are  always  attractive  and  very  easy  to  make 
and  add  a  pleasing  touch  to  the  company  dinner.  The 
foundation  is  bread  cut  in  small  triangles  or  fancy  shapes 
and  either  spread  with  butter  on  one  side  only  and  deli- 
cately browned  in  the  oven,  or  toasted  on  one  side,  or 
fried  in  deep  fat.  The  filling  is  spread  on  the  untoasted 
side  of  the  bread  if  the  first  or  second  method  is  used.  A 
garnish  of  some  kind  is  added  for  the  general  appearance; 
it  may  be  olives,  ripe,  green  or  stuflFed;  or  pickles  cut  to 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [47  ] 

look  like  a  fan;  or  tiny  cheese  balls  rolled  in  chopped  pars- 
ley; bits  of  hard  cooked  egg;  minced  green  pepper  or 
pimento  or  almost  anything  your  fancy  dictates.  Serve 
these  canapes  on  small  plates  with  or  without  doilies. 

Fish  cocktails  may  be  served  in  long  stemmed  wine  or 
cocktail  glasses  or  small  sherbet  cups;  fish  and  fruit  cock- 
tails should  be  served  very  cold.  Each  cocktail  glass 
should  be  set  on  a  small  plate  and  a  doily  under  each 
glass  adds  to  the  general  appearance. 

Whipped  cream  forced  through  the  pastry  bag,  using  a 
star  tube,  makes  a  very  tempting  decoration  for  desserts. 
All  gelatin  puddings  can  be  attractively  served  in  this 
manner;  also  fruit  salads,  and  even  the  more  humble 
stewed  prunes  or  apple  sauce,  will  look  more  dainty  and 
tempting  garnished,  and  may  be  served  as  a  dinner  dessert. 
Whipped  cream  not  only  adds  to  the  appearance  of  a  dish, 
whether  a  pastry  bag  is  used  or  it  is  arranged  with  a  spoon, 
but  also  adds  to  the  food  value  of  the  dish  with  which  it  is 
served. 

Very  thick  mayonnaise  may  garnish  a  salad  or  fish,  either 
forced  through  a  pastry  bag  or  used  plain. 

Cold  meats  are  improved  in  appearance  if  served  with 
rings  of  green  peppers  or  pimento  or  crisp  lettuce  leaves, 
with  a  spoonful  of  some  relish,  such  as  chutney,  chili 
sauce,  horseradish,  or  pickles  placed  in  the  center  of  each 
leaf.  Olives,  radishes  or  fringed  celery  also  add  to  the 
appealing  appearance  of  many  meat  and  fish  dishes,  as 
well  as  salads. 

Cakes  can  be  very  effectively  decorated  with  candied 
fruits,  walnuts,  blanched  almonds  and  pecans.  Angelica 
or  thinly  sliced  citron  may  be  soaked  in  warm  water,  dried 
thoroughly,  then  cut  into  leaves  of  any  desired  form.  Tiny 
colored  candies  and  marshmallows  may  be  used  to  trim 
cakes  for  children.  Also  the  pastry  bag  and  star  tube  will 
be  found  useful  for  decorating  small  cakes,  even  if  the 
operator  has  very  little  skill  in  the  manipulation  of  this 
implement. 

Chopped  nut  meats  sprinkled  over  fruit  salads,  coffee 
cakes,  or  cake  icings  all  add  to  the  dainty  appearance  of 
the  food. 

Immaculate  linen,  attractive  dishes,  shining  glassware, 


[48]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

all  add  to  the  attractive  appearance  of  the  table,  and  these 
need  not  necessarily  be  of  the  expensive  variety. 

One  important  thought  to  keep  uppermost  is  the  fact 
that  pleasing  looking  food  creates  an  appetite  and  starts 
the  digestive  fluids,  thereby  making  food  more  easily 
digested,  so  the  subject  of  appearance  is  well  worth  some 
consideration,  not  just  for  occasions,  but  for  every  day. 

How  to  Prepare  Radishes  for  a  Garnish 

Wash  well,  cut  a  thin  slice  off  the  tip  and  remove  the 
root;  with  a  sharp  knife  score  the  skin  into  six  or  seven 
sections,  extending  about  two-thirds  of  the  way  down  the 
radish.  Then  loosen  the  skin  on  each  section,  place  in  cold 
water  and  the  sections  will  stand  out  like  the  sections  of  a 
flower. 

How  to  Prepare  Pickles  for  a  Garnish 

Select  pickles  of  uniform  size;  cut  lengthwise,  beginning 
at  the  top,  into  very  thin  slices  without  cutting  com- 
pletely through  at  the  end;  spread  out  like  a  fan. 

To  Render  Uncooked  Vegetables  Crisp 

Put  into  very  cold  water,  adding  a  slice  or  two  of  lemon 
and  allow  to  stand  an  hour  or  more. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [49] 


Appetizers 


Cream  Cheese  Canape 

Spread  rounds  of  bread  with  softened  cream  cheese, 
place  a  slice  of  tomato  over  it;  put  thick  mayonnaise 
forced  through  a  pastry  bag  with  a  star  tube,  to  form  a 
border  around  the  tomato.  Garnish  with  tiny  cheese  balls 
rolled  in  minced  parsley. 

Grated  Cheese  Canapes 

Spread  rounds  of  bread  lightly  with  French  mustard, 
sprinkle  with  finely  grated  cheese  and  minced  stuffed 
olives.    Sprinkle  with  paprika. 

Crab  or  Lobster  Canape 

Cut  out  rounds,  diamonds  or  hearts  of  bread  }/^  inch 
thick  and  2  inches  in  diameter.  Brush  with  butter  and 
brown,  on  one  side  only,  in  the  oven.  When  cold  spread 
untoasted  side  with  minced  crab  or  lobster  mixed  with 
mayonnaise.  Garnish  with  minced  green  peppers  or 
chopped  olives. 

Shell  Fish  Canape 

Lobster,  crab  or  shrimps  minced  very  fine  and  mixed  to  a 
paste  with  a  well-seasoned  mayonnaise.  Spread  on  the 
prepared  bread  and  garnish  with  stuffed  olives.  Or  for  a 
more  elaborate  canape,  the  bread  may  first  be  spread  with 
a  thin  layer  of  caviare,  then  the  fish  mixture.  Any  cooked 
fish  such  as  halibut,  salmon  or  tuna  may  be  used  in  place  of 
crab  or  lobster. 

Sardine  Canape 

Bone  and  mash  sardines;  season  with  lemon  juice  and 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Mix  to  a  paste  and  spread  on  the 
prepared  bread.  Garnish  with  hard  cooked  eggs  pressed 
through  a  sieve  or  gherkins  cut  in  fan  shapes. 


[50]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Anchovy  Paste 

Cut  slices  of  bread  into  desired  shapes;  brush  with  butter 
and  toast  on  one  side.  When  cold  spread  untoasted  side 
with  anchovy  paste;  garnish  with  rings  cut  from  whites  of 
hard  cooked  eggs  and  grated  yolks.  Stuffed  olives  may 
also  be  used  as  a  garnish. 

Caviare  and  Egg  Canapes 

Cut  thin  slices  of  graham  or  whole  wheat  bread.  Butter 
each  side  and  brown  delicately  in  the  oven.  Allow  half  a 
hard  cooked  egg  for  each  service.  Remove  yolk,  mash  and 
mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  caviare.  Fill  each  half  of 
egg  white  with  the  mixture,  heaping  it  high  in  the  center. 
Chop  equal  quantities  of  pimentoes  and  onions  cut  very 
fine.  Season  with  a  little  mayonnaise.  Spread  on  the 
bread,  set  the  stuffed  egg  in  the  center  and  garnish  with 
slices  of  stuffed  olives. 

Smoked  Salmon  Canapes 

Cut  fresh  bread  in  half  inch  slices,  then  cut  round  with  a 
biscuit  cutter.  Spread  both  sides  with  butter  and  brown 
in  the  oven  or  fry  in  a  frying  pan.  Allow  one  hard  cooked 
egg  for  two  persons.  Chop  the  white  fine  and  press  the 
yolks  through  the  potato  ricer  or  coarse  sieve.  Place  thin 
slices  of  smoked  salmon  on  each  round  of  bread;  arrange 
a  border  of  the  egg  white  around  the  edge  of  the  bread 
and  sprinkle  the  sifted  yolk  over  the  top  of  the  salmon, 
keeping  most  of  it  in  the  center.  Serve  on  individual 
plates. 

Anchovy  Eggs 

Cook  eggs  under  boiling  point  at  least  30  minutes. 
The  yolks  will  then  be  crumbly.  When  cooked  place  in 
cold  water  to  chill  and  prevent  yolks  turning  dark.  Cut  in 
halves  lengthwise.  Remove  yolks,  mash  and  moisten  with 
thick  mayonnaise  and  season  with  anchovy  paste.  Fill 
the  egg  white  halves  with  this  mixture,  completely  cover- 
ing the  top  and  heaping  it  in  the  center.  Set  each  half  on 
a  round  of  bread  which  has  been  lightly  toasted  on  one 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK  [51] 

side.  If  egg  does  not  set  level  cut  ofF  a  small  slice  at  the 
base.  Arrange  2  slices  of  anchovies  over  the  top  of 
each  egg. 

Stufifed  Eggs 

Cook  eggs  under  boiling  point  at  least  30  minutes. 
When  cooked  place  in  cold  water  to  chill  and  prevent 
yolk  from  turning  dark.  Cut  in  halves  lengthwise.  Remove 
yolk,  mash  and  moisten  with  thick  mayonnaise.  Allow 
2  stuffed  olives  for  each  half  of  egg.  Chop  olives,  add 
to  yolks.  Fill  the  egg  white  halves  and  serve  on  a  small 
heart  of  lettuce  leaf.  Garnish  with  ripe  olives  and  sweet 
pickles  cut  in  fan  shapes. 

Cheese  Relish 

1  small  breakfast  cheese.  }/i  cup  of  chopped  nuts. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  ^  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 
1  teaspoon  onion  juice. 

Cream  the  butter  and  cheese,  add  onion  juice,  nuts  and 
parsley.  Form  into  a  loaf  and  slice  or  mold  into  balls 
and  roll  in  nuts.    Serve  with  salads. 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Chop  pimentoes  or  green  peppers  very  fine;  add  1  cup 
tomato  catsup  or  tomato  sauce;  season  with  1  teaspoon 
onion  juice,  a  few  drops  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  teaspoon 
of  grated  horseradish  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Add  1 
cup  of  small  fresh  oysters,  drained  of  all  liquid.  Any 
diced  or  flaked  fish  may  be  used  in  place  of  oysters. 

Louis  Cocktail  Sauce  No.  1 

Mix  3^  cup  chili  sauce  or  tomato  catsup  with  yi  cup  of 
well-seasoned  mayonnaise  and  ^  cup  of  whipped  cream. 
Add  1  cup  of  diced  lobster,  shrimps  or  shredded  crab. 
Sufficient  for  4  persons. 

Louis  Cocktail  Sauce  No.  2 

Mix  3^  cup  of  tomato  catsup  with  ^  cup  of  French 
dressing;  add  1  teaspoon  oinion  juice  and  1  teaspoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce.  To  use  for  flaked  fish  or  shell  fish 
cocktail. 


CHAPTER  THREE 

SOUPS  WITH  STOCK 
SOUPS  WITHOUT  STOCK 
CREAM  SOUPS 
PUREES 
CHOWDERS 


[54]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Good  Soup  the  Best  Stimulus  to  a  Good  Dinner 

HE  best  type  of  soup  to  use  for  a  dinner  menu  is 
one  made  of  a  meat  stock  foundation.  These 
soups  should  not  be  confused  in  food  value  with 
heavy  chowders,  purees  or  the  various  cream 
soups  and  should  be  classed  as  accessories  instead  of 
foods.  The  foundation  for  this  type  of  soup  is  a  meat 
stock.  Clear  soup  has  its  place  at  the  beginning  of  the 
dinner  because  it  is  a  valuable  appetizer,  acting  as  a 
stimulant  rather  than  as  a  nutrient,  and  being  quickly 
assimilated,  prepares  the  way  for  the  dishes  which  are 
to  follow. 

Under  the  ordinary  conditions  of  a  dinner,  a  soup  is 
intended  to  gratify,  not  satisfy,  hunger.  It  stimulates 
the  flow  of  the  digestive  juices.  When  the  dishes  which 
follow  soup  are  of  a  hearty  nature,  the  soup  should  be 
light  and  clear,  not  necessarily  nutritious.  Water  cannot 
dissolve  the  fiber  of  meat,  and  as  the  fiber  holds  most 
of  the  nourishment,  a  meat  stock  has  little  food  value. 

Where  a  soup  is  to  form  the  main  dish  for  luncheon  it 
should  always  be  of  a  nourishing  character,  such  as  cream 
soup,  puree  or  chowder. 

The  flavor  of  a  good  stock  depends  upon  the  amount  of 
"extractives"  that  have  been  obtained  during  the  cooking 
process.  "Extractives"  are  that  part  of  animal  food  which 
gives  distinctive  flavor  and  acts  as  a  stimulant  to  the 
appetite  and  as  an  aid  to  digestion. 

Meat  stock  should  always  be  made  the  day  before  it  is 
required,  as  a  good  result  can  only  be  obtained  by  long, 
slow  cooking.  It  is  only  by  this  means,  too,  that  the  fat 
can  be  removed  from  the  top  of  the  stock.  A  good  stock 
is  strong,  well  flavored  and  free  from  grease.  There  are  a 
number  of  kinds  of  stock. 

The  first  and  best  stock  is  made  from  uncooked  meat 
and  bones,  well  flavored.  This  forms  the  foundation  for 
consomme,  bouillon,  etc.  A  second  stock  may  be  made 
of  the  meat  and  bones  left  from  this  first  stock  by  recook- 
ing  with  water  and  a  quantity  of  vegetables.  This  soup 
depends  mainly  upon  the  vegetables  for  flavor. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [55] 

Stock  may  be  made  from  the  left-overs  of  cooked  meats, 
bones  and  vegetables.  Such  stock  can  be  used  not  only  for 
soup  but  as  a  foundation  for  gravies  and  savory  sauces. 
Stock  may  be  made  of  vegetables,  water  and  seasonings. 
This  makes  a  very  palatable  and  easily  prepared  soup.  Fish 
stock  is  made  from  fish,  shellfish  or  from  the  trimmings  of 
fish,  and  well  flavored  with  vegetables.  This  stock  forms 
a  base  for  soup  or  fish  sauces. 

Stock  made  of  the  left-overs  of  poultry  is  quite  satis- 
factory. Brown  stock  is  made  principally  of  beef  bones  and 
meat,  while  white  stock  is  made  of  mutton,  lamb,  poultry, 
veal  or  rabbit.  Glaze  is  a  stock  which  has  been  reduced  in 
quantity  by  slow  cooking,  and  when  cold  forms  a  solid 
jelly.  Freshly  made  soup  stock  may  be  poured  into 
sterilized  jars  sealed  and  set  aside  for  future  use.  It  will 
keep  the  same  as  any  canned  fruit  or  vegetable. 

Consommes  are  made  from  the  first  stock,  which  has 
been  made  clear  by  adding  the  whites  and  shells  of  eggs; 
usually  some  characteristic  flavoring  is  added  to  give  a 
distinguishing  name,  such  as  Consomme  Julienne  (with 
shredded  vegetables),  or  it  may  be  served  plain,  but 
should  be  well  seasoned.  Broths  are  made  from  the  first 
stock;  they  should  be  well  flavored  with  vegetables,  and 
may  be  thickened  slightly  by  adding  sago,  rice,  pearl 
barley,  etc.  Bouillon  is  a  broth  made  from  beef.  It  is  not 
cleared,  as  for  consomme;  it  should  be  well  flavored  with 
vegetables  and  may  be  served  plain  or  with  the  vegetables 
finely  diced  or  with  rice,  sago  or  pearl  barley.  Thick  soups 
are  made  from  meat  stock  which  has  been  thickened  by 
adding  corn  starch,  arrowroot  or  a  quantity  of  sago, 
tapioca,  rice,  pearl  barley,  etc.  These  thickening  sub- 
stances add  somewhat  to  the  food  value  of  the  soup,  but 
not  sufficient  to  place  them  in  the  same  class  with  cream 
soups  and  chowders. 

The  meat  from  which  soup  is  made  lacks  flavor,  but  still 
contains  most  of  the  necessary  food  value.  It  should  be 
well  seasoned  to  supply  the  flavor  which  has  been  extracted 
and  may  be  used  for  croquettes,  timbales,  or  minced  and 
served  with  savory  sauces. 

To  obtain  the  flavor  of  the  meat  and  bones  they  should 
be  cut  in  small  pieces  and  all  but  a  small  portion  of  the  lean 


[56]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

meat  should  be  covered  with  cold  water  and  allowed  to 
soak  for  at  least  an  hour.  The  meat  which  has  been  re- 
served should  be  dredged  with  flour  and  browned  in  hot 
fat.  Add  the  cooked  meat  to  that  which  is  soaking  in  cold 
water;  pour  over  one  cupful  of  water  and  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes  to  obtain  all  the  browned  material,  which  adds 
color  and  flavor  to  the  stock. 

Set  the  soup  kettle  over  the  fire,  add  the  seasoning  and 
bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  only,  then  simmer  gently 
several  hours.  Soup  stock  should  never  boil,  as  that  would 
make  the  meat  tough  and  would  keep  most  of  the  juices  in 
the  meat  instead  of  extracting  them,  as  desired;  also  the 
salt  has  a  tendency  to  draw  out  the  juices  and  may  be 
added  to  the  cold  water  when  soaking  the  meat. 

The  vegetables  added  for  flavor  should  be  finely  chopped 
and  sauted,  in  beef  dripping  or  a  portion  of  the  suet,  for 
about  5  minutes,  then  added  to  the  stock.  When  cooked 
the  soup  should  be  strained  and  set  aside  to  cool;  the  coat 
of  fat  which  will  cover  the  top  should  be  removed  and  then 
the  stock  is  ready  for  use  for  the  various  soups.  Pearl 
barley,  rice,  etc.,  should  be  previously  cooked  or  partially 
cooked,  then  added  to  the  stock.  Vegetables  should  be 
finely  diced  or  cut  in  thin  strips,  so  that  a  very  short  length 
of  time  only  will  be  required  to  cook  them.  The  vegetables 
used  to  flavor  the  stock  when  first  preparing  will  not  take 
the  place  of  vegetables  served  in  the  soup.  The  first  are 
used  for  flavor  only.  The  second  to  serve  in  the  soup  and 
to  give  additional  flavor. 


MRS.  DE  GRAF'S  COOK  BOOK  [57] 

How  to  Prepare  Nourishing  Soups  Without 

Stocks 

Soups  without  stock  include  all  cream  soups,  chowders 
and  purees.  This  type  of  soup  is  both  substantial  a  d 
nourishing  and  is  served  at  luncheon  or  where  the  meal  to 
follow  is  not  hearty.  Or  cream  soups  may  be  served  for 
informal  dinners  to  furnish  a  substantial  dish  so  that  the 
dinner  itself  will  not  require  so  generous  an  amount  of  the 
more  expensive  meat  or  meat  substitute.  Cream  soups 
and  chowders  are  both  popular  and  very  easily  made. 

The  foundation  of  a  cream  soup  is  a  thin  white  sauce; 
cooked  vegetable  pulp  or  puree  is  added  for  flavor.  The 
careful  housewife  will  plan  in  advance  to  cook  sufficient 
vegetables  at  a  previous  meal  to  prepare  these  soups. 
Many  times  left-over  vegetables  are  improved  by  further 
cooking,  since  in  order  to  make  really  good  cream  soup  the 
vegetables  should  be  so  soft  that  they  will  easily  pass 
through  a  sieve  or  puree  strainer.  The  outer  leaves  of 
celery,  the  tough  ends  of  asparagus,  the  discarded  leaves  of 
lettuce,  will  all  give  sufficient  flavor  to  make  a  delicate, 
appetizing  cream  soup.  Vegetables  that  would  otherwise 
be  thrown  away  may  be  utilized  most  satisfactorily  in  this 
manner.  When  possible  use  the  liquor  in  which  the 
vegetables  were  cooked,  together  with  milk  when  making 
the  foundation  white  sauce,  as  it  adds  more  flavor.  Strictly 
speaking,  cream  soups  should  contain  only  pureed  vege- 
tables, meats  or  fish,  but  are  more  substantial  if  a  part 
of  the  ingredients  used  are  chopped  very  fine  and  added  to 
the  soup.  When  using  canned  vegetables  for  making  soups 
the  liquor  should  be  discarded  whenever  possible,  as  it 
usually  imparts  a  "canned"  taste  not  at  all  palatable.  The 
exceptions  would  be  corn  and  tomatoes.  These  soups  are 
improved  if  a  small  quantity  of  whipped  cream  is  added 
just  before  serving,  or  a  teaspoon  of  the  whipped  cream 
may  be  used  as  a  garnish  for  each  service. 

When  preparing  cream  soups  the  vegetables  should  be 
rubbed  through  a  coarse  seive  and  heated  before  making 
the  white  sauce.    The  sauce  should  be  made  just  before 


[58]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

serving  time  and  then  the  two  ingredients  combined. 
Cream  soups  will  not  curdle  if  made  by  this  method.  If 
allowed  to  stand  any  length  of  time  they  are  apt  to 
separate,  so  should  not  be  made  until  required. 

Purees  are  usually  made  of  vegetables  such  as  dried 
beans,  dried  peas  or  potatoes  and  are  a  form  of  cream  soup 
and  very  nutritous. 

A  puree  should  be  about  as  thick  as  a  cream  soup,  there- 
fore but  little  thickening  is  needed ;  but  it  will  separate  if  no 
thickening  is  used. 

Bisques  are  made  of  fish,  usually  shell  fish.  They  have 
as  a  base  a  thin  sauce.  Clams,  oysters  or  diced  lobster  or 
crab  are  added  to  a  white  sauce  and  the  whole  well 
seasoned. 

Chowders  are  very  substantial  and  are  almost  a  meal  in 
themselves  when  served  with  bread  and  butter.  These 
soups  make  a  very  satisfactory  luncheon  or  supper  dish. 

Standard  Brown  Soup  Stock 

3  pounds  of  shin  of  beef  or  3  whole  cloves, 

other  muscular  portion.  J/g  teaspoon  white  pepper. 

3  quarts  of  cold  water.  H   cup  each   finely  chopped 
1  tablespoonful  salt.  carrots,  celery,  onion  and 

4  pepper  corns  or  turnip. 

Cut  the  meat  in  cubes.  Remove  about  yi  of  the  meat 
and  dredge  this  with  flour  and  brown  in  hot  beef  drippings 
or  fat.  Add  1  cupful  of  cold  water  and  simmer  about  10 
minutes.  Cover  the  rest  of  the  meat  and  cracked  bones 
with  cold  water  and  soak  for  at  least  an  hour.  Add  the 
browned  meat  and  seasonings  and  bring  slowly  to  the 
simmering  point,  cooking  between  4  and  5  hours.  Do  not 
boil.  Strain,  set  aside  to  cool  and  remove  fat.  The  stock 
is  now  ready  for  many  varieties  of  soup. 

Mullagatawny  Soup 

1  quart  of  brown  soup  stock.  2  tablespoons  butter  or  sub- 

1  cup  strained  tomatoes.  stitute. 

J^  cup  each  chopped  carrots,  2  tablespoons  flour. 

celery,  onions,  greenpepper.  1  teaspoon  curry  powder. 
1  cup  cooked  meat  or  chicken 

cut  in  dice. 

Add  tomatoes,  vegetables  and  diced  meat  to  soup  stock 
and  heat  to  the  simmering  point.    Cook  30  to  40  minutes. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [59] 

Soften  butter,  add  flour  and  curry  powder  and  mix  until 
creamy.  Slowly  pour  2  cupfuls  of  the  hot  soup  over  flour 
mixture,  stirring  until  smooth;  then  add  to  soup,  cook  for  5 
minutes  and  serve. 

Onion  Soup 

1  quart  or  4  cups  of  brown  2  tablespoons  shortening, 
stock.  4  tablespoons  grated  cheese. 

2  medium  sliced  onions. 

Melt  the  fat  and  add  onions;  fry  until  a  golden  brown. 
Add  the  soup  stock  and  simmer  30  minutes.  Have  the 
cheese  in  a  bowl  and  sprinkle  1  tablespoon  of  grated 
cheese  on  each  service  of  soup. 


Creole  Soup 

3  cups  of  brown  stock.  2  teaspoons  Worcestershire 

1  cup  strained  tomato.  sauce. 

1  onion  minced.  Yi  cup  cooked  rice. 

Add  ingredients  to  brown  stock,  heat  and  serve. 


Julienne  Soup 

4  cups  brown  stock.  J^  cup  cooked  peas. 

yi  cup  each  cut  carrot,  turnip 
and  potato. 

Cut  the  vegetables  in  thin  pieces  about  the  length  of  a 
match  and  twice  as  thick.  Parboil  about  5  minutes, 
then  add  to  hot  soup  and  simmer  20  minutes.  Add  peas 
and  serve. 

Oxtail  Soup 

1  small  oxtail.  J^  teaspoon  pepper. 

2  quarts  of  brown  soup  stock.        1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
}/i  cup  each  chopped  carrots,  sauce. 

turnips,  onions,  celery.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Cut  oxtail  in  small  pieces.  Dredge  with  flour  and  brown 
in  hot  fat.  Add  1  cupful  of  cold  water  and  simmer  10 
minutes.  Add  soup  stock  together  with  remaining 
ingredients.    Simmer  1  hour  or  more. 


[60]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Consomme 

1  knuckle  of  veal.  3  whole  cloves. 

1  poxind  beef.  J^  bay  leaf. 

3  quarts  of  cold  water.  1  tablespoon  salt. 

Yi  cup  each  diced  carrot, 
onion  and  celery. 

Cut  meat  in  cubes,  also  cut  ofFall  meat  from  the  knuckle. 
Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  hot  beef  suet  until  brown  on 
all  sides.  Pour  over  1  cupful  of  cold  water  and  simmer 
10  minutes.  This  will  give  a  rich  color  to  the  soup. 
Crack  the  knuckle,  put  into  a  kettle  with  meat  and 
remaining  ingredients.  Bring  slowly  to  the  simmering 
point  and  cook  between  4  and  5  hours.  Do  not  boil.  A 
bit  of  thyme,  summer  savory  and  marjoram  will  add  a 
delicate  flavor.  When  cooked  strain  and  cool.  Remove 
fat,  then  add  the  slightly  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Return  to 
the  fire  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  stirring  frequently. 
Strain  again  before  serving.  This  will  clear  the  soup. 
When  cold  consomme  should  form  a  perfect  jelly  which 
may  be  cut  into  cubes  and  served  cold  in  hot  weather. 

Emergency  Soup  Without  Stock 

Yi  cup  carrot,  finely  chopped.  4  cups  water. 

y^  cup  turnip,  finely  chopped.  4  tablespoons  butter  or  butter 

1  cup  of  celery,  cut  in  small  substitute. 

pieces.  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 

1  cup  potato,  cut  in  small  1  teaspoon  salt. 

cubes.  y%  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  onion,  sliced. 

Prepare  vegetables  before  measuring.  Melt  butter, 
add  all  vegetables  except  potatoes  and  cook  over  a  low 
fire  about  10  minutes,  stirring  often.  Add  potatoes  and 
water  and  simmer  about  40  minutes,  or  until  vegetables 
are  tender.    Add  parsley  and  serve. 

Foundation  Recipe  for  Cream  Soups 

2  cups  milk.  2  cups  water  in  which  vegetable 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  sub-  was  cooked. 

stitute.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  Y^  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  cup  vegetable  pulp. 

Chop  vegetables  fine,  add  about  3  cups  of  water  and  cook 
until  tender.    Rub  the  cooked  vegetable  through  a  coarse 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [61] 

sieve.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  mix  until  smooth, 
then  cook  until  it  bubbles;  add  cold  milk  and  stir  until 
mixture  thickens,  then  add  seasonings.  Heat  the  vege- 
table pulp  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked.  Combine 
mixtures  and  serve.  Milk  may  replace  the  vegetable  water 
and  finely  diced  chicken  or  flaked  fish  the  vegetable  pulp. 
Left-over  vegetables  can  be  strained  and  used. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup. 

2  cups  milk.  2  cups  strained  tomato. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  sub-  1  teaspoon  salt. 

stitue.  H  teaspoon  pepper. 
2  tablespoons  flour. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth,  then  cook 
until  it  bubbles;  add  cold  milk  and  stir  until  mixture 
thickens.  Add  seasonings.  Just  before  serving  add  hot 
tomatoes.  Do  not  cook  after  combining  mixtures.  Made 
in  this  manner  the  soup  will  not  curdle. 


Split  Pea  Puree 

1  cup  split  peas.  H  sliced  onion. 
6  cups  water  or  half  stock  and  1  tablespoon  butter  or  sub- 
half  water.  stitute. 
}/2  teaspoon  salt.  1  tablespoon  of  flour. 
yi  teaspoon  pepper. 

Cover  peas  with  cold  water  and  soak  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain  and  add  the  cold  water  or  stock,  seasonings, 
onion  and  if  wished  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork  or  bacon. 
Heat  to  the  boiling  point  then  simmer  about  2  hours. 
Press  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Melt  butter,  add  flour, 
mix  until  smooth,  then  gradually  add  hot  soup  and  bring 
to  the  boiling  point.    Serve  with  croutons. 


Croutons 

Cut  stale  bread  in  }i  inch  slices  and  remove  crusts. 
Spread  thinly  with  butter  on  both  sides.  Cut  into  small 
cubes,  place  in  a  pan  and  bake  until  dry  and  a  delicate 
brown,  having  a  slow  oven. 


[62]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Clam  or  Fish  Chowder 

2  cups  of  clams  or  fish.  2  cups  milk. 

2  cups  rawpotatoes,  cut  in  dice.  4  crackers. 

}/i  cup  salt  pork,  cut  in  small  1  tablespoon  butter  or  sub- 
pieces,  stitute. 

1  onion,  sliced.  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Put  salt  pork  in  a  pan  and  heat  slowly  to  extract  the  fat; 
add  sliced  oinion  and  cook  until  a  golden  brown.  Add  2 
cups  of  boiling  water  to  the  potatoes  and  cook  5  minutes, 
add  the  salt  pork  and  onions  to  the  potatoes  and  simmer 
until  the  potatoes  are  tender  but  not  broken.  Melt  the 
butter,  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth,  add  cold  milk  and 
stir  until  creamy.  Combine  mixtures,  season  and  add 
clams  or  fish.  Cook  5  minutes.  Add  crackers,  split  and 
cut  in  quarters.  Strained  tomatoes  may  replace  the  milk 
if  desired. 

Com  Chowder 

1  cup  canned  corn.  2  cups  milk. 

2  cups  raw  potatoes,  cut  in  1  tablespoon  butter  or  butter 
cubes.  substitute. 

l/i  cup  salt  pork,  cut  in  small         J^  teaspoon  salt. 

pieces.  y%  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  onion,  sliced. 

Put  salt  pork  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  to  extract  the  fat; 
add  onion  and  cook  until  golden  brown,  about  5  minutes; 
parboil  potatoes  in  boiling  water  to  cover  5  minutes; 
add  to  salt  pork  and  onion.  Cook  until  potatoes  are 
tender.  Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth,  add 
cold  milk  and  stir  until  creamy.  Add  seasonings  and 
combine  mixtures. 

Onion  and  Potato  Soup 

1  onion,  sliced.  2  cups  boiling  water. 

1  cup  celery,  cut  in  J^  inch  2  tablespoons  butter  or  sub- 
pieces,  stitute. 

2  cups  raw  potatoes,  cut  in  2  tablespoons  flour, 
cubes.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  shortening.  Yz  teaspoon  pepper. 

2  cups  milk. 

Melt  shortening,  add  onions  and  celery;  cook  about  10 
minutes,  stirring  often.  Add  flour,  mix  well  and  cook  until 
frothy,  then  add  cold  milk;  cook  until  thick.  In  the  mean- 
time parboil  the  potatoes  in  boiling  water  about  5  minutes; 
combine  ingredients,  season  and  serve. 


CHAPTER  FOUR 

BREAKFAST 

CEREALS 

VARIOUS  WAYS  OF  SERVING  EGGS 

HOW  TO  MAKE  OMELETS 


[64]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Breakfast  One  of  the  Important  Events 
of  the  Day 

REAKFAST  in  most  homes  is,  without  doubt,  the 
simplest  meal  of  the  day  and  one  requiring  the 
least  thought  and  effort  in  preparation.  But 
when  we  consider  the  fact  that  breakfast  is 
also  the  first  meal  of  the  day  and  is  the  one  that  should 
furnish  the  necessary  food  principles  to  the  body  to  aid  it 
in  starting  and  carrying  on  the  work  for  the  day,  we  can 
readily  understand  the  importance  of  this  meal  and  why 
it  is  necessary  to  begin  the  day  with  proper  food.  By 
this  is  meant  a  meal  containing  the  essential  food  ele- 
ments to  furnish  heat  and  energy  and  to  repair  and  build 
the  muscles  and  tissues  that  are  constantly  being  worn  out. 

The  right  food  leads  to  efficiency  in  one's  work,  for  the 
body,  like  an  engine,  must  have  fuel,  which  is  furnished 
by  the  food  we  eat.  And  if  the  food  is  not  of  the  proper 
kind  to  supply  the  bodily  needs  it  is  going  to  suffer  from 
lack  of  fuel. 

Of  course,  several  factors,  such  as  age,  sex,  muscular 
activity  and  climate,  determine  to  a  large  extent  the 
amount  and  kind  of  food  required  by  different  individuals. 
For  instance,  a  man  doing  hard,  muscular  labor  out  of 
doors  would  require  more  food  and  food  containing  more 
of  the  muscle  building  qualities,  such  as  meat  or  eggs; 
while  a  man  doing  office  work  would  need  less  food  be- 
cause his  muscular  activity  is  not  so  great  and,  working 
indoors,  he  does  not  require  so  much  of  the  heat  pro- 
ducing foods.  It  is  often  remarkable  the  amount  of  food 
growing  children  eat,  but  the  active  child  requires  energy 
giving  foods,  particularly  if  much  time  is  spent  out  of 
doors  in  active  play. 

The  right  kind  of  food,  properly  prepared,  keeps  the 
body  in  a  healthful  condition.  And  a  healthy  body  is 
able  to  resist  and  throw  off  disease;  an  undernourished 
body  is  very  susceptible  to  germs  and  will  not  recover 
from  a  severe  illness  so  readily  as  one  that  is  properly 
nourished  and  kept  in  a  resistant  condition. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [65] 

Many  persons  consider  breakfast  of  so  little  importance 
that  they  omit  this  meal  entirely.  This  seems  a  mistake, 
for  in  the  morning  the  stomach  is  practically  empty  and, 
in  order  "to  start  the  day  right,"  some  food  should  be 
taken  unless  for  some  good  reason  a  physician  has  advised 
otherwise. 

Again,  breakfasts  are  often  eaten  very  hurriedly,  which 
is  wrong.  In  order  to  receive  the  greatest  benefit  from 
the  food,  it  should  be  thoroughly  broken  up  in  the  mouth 
so  that  the  digestive  juices  may  begin  their  action.  If 
food  is  not  broken  up  before  entering  the  stomach  it 
must  be  done  there,  and  this  means  a  strain  on  that  organ; 
overwork  will  gradually  cause  it  to  weaken;  so  in  time  the 
stomach  will  not  be  able  to  perform  its  functions  properly. 

It  may  seem  difficult  to  get  the  variety  in  our  breakfast 
menus  that  the  large  number  of  luncheon  and  dinner  dishes 
afford,  because  there  is  a  limited  number  of  so-called 
typical  breakfast  dishes.  But  there  is  an  endless  variety 
of  methods  of  preparing  these  different  foods,  so  that  there 
is  really  no  need  of  monotony  at  this  meal. 

Fruit,  toast,  cereal  and  coffee  is  the  breakfast  of  the 
average  city  dweller;  eggs,  creamed  dishes,  ham,  bacon, 
etc.,  for  those  who  require  a  hearty  meal. 

Fruit  is  valuable  in  the  diet  for  the  acid  and  minerals 
it  furnishes  the  body,  and  also  to  act  as  body  regulators. 
Taking  fruit  on  an  empty  stomach  is  more  effective  than 
when  eaten  after  a  heavy  meal.  The  acids  in  fruits  act  as 
a  stimulant  and  aid  digestion.  When  cereal  is  served  it 
may  furnish  the  principal  part  of  the  meal,  for  it  furnishes 
starch,  the  heat  and  energy  producing  food,  as  well  as 
the  minerals  that  are  so  necessary  to  the  body.  If  properly 
cooked  cereals  are  very  palatable  and  very  easily  digested. 

Cocoa,  chocolate  or  milk  supplies  a  food  drink  and  taken 
with  toast  or  rolls  and  butter  constitutes  a  light  meal. 

Eggs  and  meat  furnish  the  tissue  building  elements. 

With  the  many  different  kinds  of  fruits  and  cereals  and 
the  various  methods  of  preparing  them  the  housewife 
should  be  able  to  have  almost  as  wide  a  variety  of  dishes 
for  her  breakfast  menus  as  for  luncheon  and  dinner. 


[66]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Cereals  the  Fuel 

Cereals  are  fuel  foods  and  when  properly  cooked  about 
90  per  cent  of  the  organic  matter  is  assimilated.  They 
supply  actual  nutriment  to  the  body  more  economically 
than  any  other  class  of  food. 

Wheat,  corn,  rice  and  oats  are  the  most  widely  used; 
oats  and  cornmeal,  having  more  fat  than  other  cereals, 
are  particularly  desirable  for  winter  foods,  although  ex- 
perience has  proved  that  oatmeal  mush  is  acceptable  for 
active  children  all  the  year  round.  Cornmeal  and  oats 
are  valuable  when  the  menu  lacks  meat.  Many  cereals 
contain  protein,  which,  together  with  the  starch,  make 
them  of  great  food  value;  in  fact,  they  contain  in  varying 
proportions  all  the  essential  qualities  to  support  life. 
One  of  their  greatest  values  lies  in  the  mineral  salts  they 
supply.  These  salts  are  essential  in  the  diet  of  growing 
children  for  their  bone  building  qualities. 

Because  they  are  rich  in  starch,  cereals  must  be  thor- 
oughly cooked.  It  is  safe  to  double  the  time  for  cooking 
as  directed  on  the  package.  When  they  are  not  sufficiently 
cooked  it  is  difficult  for  the  digestive  juices  to  penetrate 
the  raw  starch,  and  the  body  will  not  get  the  full  benefit 
of  the  heat  and  energy  this  food  contains. 

Cereals  should  be  cooked  in  a  quantity  of  boiling  water, 
the  amount  varying  with  the  kind  of  cereal  to  be  cooked. 

The  coarser  the  grain,  the  more  water  required  for 
cooking.  Whole  or  coarse  grains  are  improved  and  require 
less  time  for  cooking  by  soaking  in  cold  water;  very  fine 
grains  may  be  mixed  with  cold  water  before  adding  to  the 
boiling  water  to  prevent  the  formation  of  lumps.  All 
others  should  be  added  slowly  to  the  boiling  water,  stirring 
constantly.  Cook  directly  over  the  flame  until  boiling 
point  is  reached  and  boil  five  minutes.  Then  place  over 
hot  water,  cover  closely  and  cook  the  required  length  of 
time.  A  double  boiler  is  a  necessity  when  a  fireless  cooker 
is  not  used.  It  is  impossible  to  cook  cereal  properly 
directly  over  the  flame  for  any  length  of  time,  for  it  will 
burn  before  the  cereal  has  cooked  sufficiently.  Cereals 
should  be  cooked  stiffs  enough  to  chew.    The  fireless  cooker 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [67] 

is  an  excellent  medium  for  cooking  cereals.  The  longer 
they  are  cooked  the  more  digestible  and  palatable  they 
will  be. 

When  cereals  are  to  be  used  in  the  form  of  gruels  for 
children  and  invalids  the  cooking  is  more  important  than 
when  used  by  people  in  normal  health.  It  should  be 
cooked  much  longer,  then  strained  to  remove  all  of  the 
tough  outer  coat  of  the  grains.  To  this  strained  mush  is 
added  milk  to  make  the  desired  consistency — a  very  thin 
gruel  for  young  children,  and  of  a  thicker  consistency  for 
invalids  or  elderly  persons  if  to  be  eaten  from  a  spoon.  It 
is  most  important  that  the  cooking  be  long  enough  to 
change  the  starch  to  a  nearly  soluble  condition,  otherwise 
it  will  be  indigestible.  A  good  rule  is  to  cook  them  until 
the  cereal  forms  a  jelly-like  mass.  If  cereals  are  to  be 
eaten  every  day  offer  a  variety.  The  family  may  easily 
tire  of  one  kind  served  too  often.  Most  cooked  cereals 
may  be  molded,  sliced  and  fried,  and  served  with  syrup 
or  eaten  with  meats  to  take  the  place  of  vegetables.  A 
portion  of  cooked  cereal  may  replace  an  equal  amount  of 
flour  in  making  muffins  or  griddle  cakes. 

Uncooked  cereals  are  often  used  as  a  base  for  steamed 
puddings  or  cookies. 

Keep  cereals  in  a  cool  dry  place,  closely  covered  to 
protect  them  from  dust. 

General  Directions  for  Cooking  All  Breakfast  Cereals 

Put  water  in  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler;  add  salt 
and  when  boiling  rapidly  slowly  add  the  cereal  so  as  not 
to  retard  boiling  Stir  constantly,  cooking  directly  over 
the  flame  for  5  minutes;  then  set  over  the  hot  water  or  in 
the  fireless  and  cook  without  stirring  and  closely  covered 
for  the  required  length  of  time. 


68 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 


Time  Table  for  Cooking  Breakfast  Cereals 

Kind             Quantity      Salt  Water      Time 
Farina  and  Wheat 

Germ yi  cup  1  teaspoon  2  cups       30  min. 

Rolled  Oats 1  cup  1  teaspoon  2  cups       30  min. 

Rolled  Wheat 1  cup  1  teaspoon  \yi  cups  20  min. 

Oatmeal ]/2  cup  1  teaspoon  2  cups      3  hours. 

Cornmeal yi  cup  1  teaspoon  2  cups      3  hours. 

Fine  Hominy yi  cup  1  teaspoon  2  cups        1  hour. 

Coarse  Hominy.  .  .  1  cup  2  teaspoons  4  cups      3  hours. 

Cracked  Wheat.  .  .^  cup  1  teaspoon  2  cups      3  hours. 


Boiled  Rice 

Wash  rice  in  several  waters  until,  when  rubbed  between 
the  hands  in  clear  water,  no  further  cloudiness  appears. 

Cook  in  an  abundance  of  rapidly  boiling  water,  using  at 
least  four  times  as  much  water  as  rice.  Add  the  rice  to  the 
boiling  water  a  little  at  a  time  so  as  not  to  lower  the  tem- 
perature. Boil  from  15  to  30  minutes,  or  until  the  rice 
is  tender,  then  add  salt.  The  time  required  for  cook- 
ing depends  upon  the  age  of  the  rice.  The  older  the  rice 
the  longer  it  will  take  to  cook  until  soft.  The  boiling 
should  be  so  violent  as  to  keep  the  rice  agitated  and  the 
grains  well  separated  from  one  another. 

To  test,  press  a  few  grains  between  the  fingers,  and  when 
it  is  soft  all  through  drain  the  rice  through  a  colander  and 
set  over  steam  or  in  a  moderate  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to 
dry.  If  it  is  found  necessary  to  stir  while  boiling,  use  a 
fork,  stirring  gently  so  the  kernels  will  not  be  broken.  If  the 
rice  has  been  well  cooked,  even  when  cold  each  kernel 
should  be  dry  and  distinct.  Before  adding  boiling  water 
to  the  kettle,  grease  the  bottom  of  the  utensil  and  the 
rice  will  never  stick. 

The  water  left  from  boiled  rice  has  far  too  much  starch 
to  be  wasted.  It  makes  a  very  good  starch  for  very  sheer 
materials.  Cooked  down  until  thick,  it  makes  a  good 
foundation  for  all  kinds  of  soups  or  sauces.  If  allowed  to 
cool,  it  will  form  a  jelly.  This  water  should  be  used  at 
once,  for  it  sours  very  quickly. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [69] 

Oriental  Method 

1  cup  rice.  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 

2  cups  cold  water. 

Wash  rice  in  several  waters  or  until  all  cloudiness  dis- 
appears. Place  in  a  saucepan  with  the  cold  water,  cover 
closely  and  set  directly  over  the  fire.  Boil  about  10 
minutes,  then  reduce  heat  and  steam  10  minutes  more. 
Add  salt  during  the  last  10  minutes'  cooking. 


[70]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Food  Value  and  Various  Ways  of 
Serving  Eggs 

Eggs  contain  water,  mineral  and  two  chief  elements  of 
nutrition,  protein  and  fat.  The  protein  of  eggs  is  more 
easily  digested  than  that  of  meat.  For  that  reason  eggs 
should  be  used  freely  during  the  summer,  particularly 
in  sections  where  the  weather  is  hot. 

Being  a  highly  concentrated  food,  eggs  lack  bulk,  so 
should  be  served  with  foods  that  supply  this  need. 

Eggs  are  really  a  necessity  with  the  average  family,  and 
there  is  no  other  article  of  food  more  indispensable  to  the 
art  of  cookery.  They  are  used  to  thicken  sauces  and 
custards;  to  clarify  soups;  to  keep  a  coating  of  crumbs  on 
all  breaded  foods,  such  as  cutlets,  croquettes,  etc.;  to  leaven 
sponge  cakes;  to  make  souffles  puffy  and  light;  doughs  and 
batters  firm  in  texture — in  fact,  the  use  is  almost  limit- 
less. It  may  seem  a  very  ordinary  process  just  to  boil  eggs; 
however,  comparatively  very  few  people  do  this  correctly. 

Cooking  at  a  low  temperature  is  absolutely  essential  if 
eggs  are  to  be  rendered  digestible.  Raw  eggs  are  very 
easily  and  quickly  digested.  Heated  to  about  134  degrees 
F.  the  white  of  the  egg  will  be  a  semi-liquid,  the  yolk 
liquid,  very  easy  to  digest.  Heated  to  160  degrees  F. 
the  white  of  the  egg  will  be  of  a  tender  jelly-like  consist- 
ency, the  yolk  soft,  also  easily  assimilated.  Heated  to 
212  degrees  F.,  or  the  boiling  point,  and  kept  at  this 
degree  of  heat  for  several  minutes,  the  yolk  becomes  hard, 
the  white  tough  and  difficult  to  digest.  Cooked  for  any 
length  of  time  at  the  boiling  point  they  become  very 
hard  and  tough  and  decidedly  indigestible.  These  facts 
are  worthy  of  consideration,  particularly  if  you  are  cooking 
for  children,  elderly  persons  or  those  with  weak  stomachs. 
These  principles  will  apply  to  all  egg  cookery. 

When  other  ingredients  are  used  in  combination  with 
any  number  of  eggs  the  heat  must  be  moderate  if  the 
result  is  to  be  successful.  Custards,  timbales,  sponge 
cakes,  ometlets,  etc.,  all  are  tough  if  cooked  at  a  high 
temperature.     During  the  spring  and  summer  when  eggs 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [71] 

are  not  so  high  in  price  the  thrifty  housewife  will  pack  them 
for  use  during  the  winter  months.  Of  course,  perfectly 
fresh  eggs  have  the  best  flavor  and  for  table  use  the  packed 
eggs  will  never  be  as  palatable  as  fresh  ones.  But  for 
making  cakes,  muffins,  griddle  cakes,  custards,  puddings, 
etc.,  the  packed  eggs  will  be  just  as  satisfactory  as  the 
fresh  and  at  one-half  the  price.  With  a  case  or  more  of 
packed  eggs,  a  small  family  may  have,  at  a  moderate  cost, 
their  favorite  cake  or  pudding,  the  crisp,  tempting  waffles, 
cream  puff's,  popovers  or  omelets  with  just  as  satisfactory 
results  as  if  made  from  fresh  eggs.  There  is  a  prejudice 
against  packed  or  cold  storage  eggs  which  should  not 
exist. 

The  practical  housekeeper  realizes  their  value  for  cook- 
ing purposes  and  knows  that  it  is  not  logical  to  use  these 
eggs  for  the  table,  for  their  flavor  is  impaired;  but,  com- 
bined with  other  ingredients,  this  lack  of  flavor  has  no 
disadvantage. 

Eggs  may  also  be  used  to  replace  meat.  There  are  few 
persons  who  do  not  like  them,  but  if  served  in  the  same 
way  too  often,  egg  dishes  become  monotonous.  There  are 
many  dishes,  ofi^ering  unlimited  variety,  which  should  be 
found  on  the  weekly  menu. 

Soft  and  Hard  Cooked  Eggs 

To  cook  eggs  soft  they  should  be  dropped  into  a  kettle 
containing  enough  boiling  water  to  completely  cover  them 
and  allow  them  to  stand  in  the  hot  water  for  10  minutes, 
having  the  kettle  closely  covered  and  no  fire  under  the 
kettle.  This  will  give  you  the  soft  egg  with  the  white 
cooked  to  a  jelly-like  consistency.  If  desired  cooked 
longer,  keep  a  very  low  fire  so  that  the  water  will  not  reach 
the  boiling  point  and  cook  12  to  15  minutes.  Cooked  in 
this  manner  the  egg  will  be  firm  but  mealy,  not  tough,  and 
is  digestible. 

Or  cover  eggs  with  cold  water  and  when  boiling  point 
is  reached  remove  from  the  fire.  They  will  be  just  right 
for  soft  cooked  eggs.  If  desired  medium  or  hard,  let  stand 
from  10  to  15  minutes  in  the  hot  water.  Keep  kettle 
closely  covered  and  in  a  warm  place  on  the  stove  or  over 
the  lowest  heat  possible  sufficient  to  keep  the  water  hot 


[72]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

only.  If  eggs  are  to  be  used  for  salad  or  garnishes,  let 
them  cook  under  the  boiling  point  half  an  hour.  Plunge 
into  cold  water  at  once  so  the  yolk  will  not  turn  dark. 

Poached  Eggs 

To  poach  eggs,  fill  a  deep  frying  pan  ^  full  of  water,  add 
}4  teaspoon  of  salt.  When  water  is  boiling,  break  egg  in  a 
saucer  and  carefully  lower  into  the  water.  Baste  the  yolks 
once  or  twice  to  cook  the  tops.  The  water  should  not  boil 
after  the  eggs  have  been  added,  but  kept  at  the  simmering 
point.  Cook  until  the  white  is  firm,  then  remove  carefully 
with  a  perforated  spoon  or  skimmer  to  slices  of  buttered 
toast. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Spinach 

2  cups  of  cooked  spinach,  4  poached  eggs. 

chopped  fine.  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese. 

3^  cup  of  medium  white  sauce. 

For  sauce  melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  or  substitute,  add 
1  tablespoon  of  flour;  mix  until  smooth  and  free  from 
lumps;  set  over  fire  and  cook  until  frothy;  add  3^  cup  cold 
milk  and  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  thick;  season  with 
}/2  teaspoon  salt,  3^  teaspoon  pepper;  mix  spinach  and 
white  sauce  and  heat  thoroughly;  turn  onto  a  serving 
platter  and  flatten  down  with  spoon.  Place  poached  eggs 
on  top,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  set  in  the  oven  a  few 
seconds  to  partially  melt  cheese.  Garnish  with  toast 
points  and  serve. 

Scrambled  Eggs 

Scrambled  eggs,  when  properly  cooked,  are  a  delicious 
creamy  dish;  if  cooked  at  a  high  temperature  they  become 
a  stringy  mass  which  is  neither  palatable  nor  easily  di- 
gestible. A  very  easy  way  to  prepare  scrambled  eggs  is 
to  use  the  double  boiler  and  cook  the  eggs  over  hot  water. 
If  the  result  is  to  be  a  creamy  mixture,  care  must  be  taken 
not  to  cook  them  too  long. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  White  Sauce 

H  cup  of  medium  white  sauce.       Salt  and  pepper. 
4  eggs. 

Make  sauce,  then  add  eggs.  Cook  slowly,  stirring 
constantly  until  creamy.    Serve  on  toast. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [73] 

Eggs  and  Asparagus 

1  cup  of  asparagus  tips.  4  hard  cooked  eggs. 

1  cup  medium  white  sauce. 

Add  asparagus  tips  to  the  white  sauce;  remove  shell  from 
eggs  and  cut  in  quarters;  pour  white  sauce  and  asparagus 
tips  on  serving  plate  and  arrange  hard  cooked  eggs 
around  the  edge.     Serve  very  hot. 


Fried  Eggs 

To  fry  eggs  use  enough  hot  fat  to  baste  the  eggs  as 
they  are  cooking,  so  that  a  delicate  film  will  be  formed 
over  each  egg.  The  fat  should  be  hot,  but  not  hot  enough 
to  brown  the  eggs  at  once  or  they  will  have  a  bitter, 
unpleasant  flavor. 

Eggs  Benedict 

For  each  egg  allow  1  slice  of  cooked  ham  and  1  toasted 
English  muflSn  or  round  slice  of  toast.  Poach  eggs.  Put 
ham  on  toast,  then  poached  egg;  pour  over  all  a  well- 
seasoned  white  sauce. 


Eggs  Baked  in  Potato  Cases 

Bake  medium  sized  potatoes.  When  cooked  split  down 
the  center  lengthwise  and  remove  the  pulp.  Beat  until 
creamy  or  press  through  a  potato  ricer;  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter,  adding  a  little  milk  to  moisten.  Break 
an  egg  in  each  potato  case,  then  heap  the  mashed  potato 
mixture  on  top  with  a  spoon  or  force  through  a  pastry 
bag.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  20  minutes. 

Baked  Eggs  with  Mashed  Potatoes 

Butter  a  casserole  or  baking  dish.  Fill  with  hot  mashed 
potatoes.  With  a  tablespoon  make  4  depressions,  each 
to  hold  an  egg;  brush  over  with  melted  fat,  and  drop  an 
egg  into  each.  Set  in  a  medium  hot  oven  until  eggs  are 
set  and  potatoes  brown. 


[74]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Shirred  Eggs  Creole 

Make  the  Spanish  omelet  mixture.  Put  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  this  mixture  in  either  a  greased  individual  baking 
dish,  or  a  large  one;  place  the  eggs  on  top  of  this  sauce, 
season  and  place  buttered  crumbs  over  top  of  egg.  Bake 
in  a  medium  hot  oven. 

Eggs  Marine 

For  each  service  allow  1  egg  and  1  tablespoon  of  finely 
chopped  cooked  fish;  grease  custard  cups,  add  fish, 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  chopped  parsley.  Beat  egg,  add  1 
tablespoon  of  milk;  pour  over  fish;  set  cups  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  until  eggs  are 
firm.  Turn  out  on  a  serving  plate  and  pour  a  well-seasoned 
white  sauce  over  all.  Lemon  juice  should  be  added  to  the 
sauce  for  fish.    Any  cooked  meat  may  be  used  for  this  dish. 

Curried  Eggs 

4  hard  cooked  eggs.  1  teaspoon  curry  powder. 

1  cup  of  medium  white  sauce.  1  teaspoon  onion  juice. 

1  tablespoon  shredded  green  2  cups  cooked  rice, 
pepper. 

Prepare  the  sauce,  adding  peppers,  onion  juice,  rice 
and  curry  powder,  which  has  been  moistened  and  mixed 
with  a  little  cold  milk.  Heat  thoroughly.  Remove  eggs 
from  shell,  cut  in  quarters.  Pour  hot  mixture  into  a 
serving  plate  and  garnish  with  the  eggs. 

Stuffed  Eggs 

Hard  cooked  eggs  (as  many  as  desired);  cut  in  halves 
lengthwise,  remove  yolks;  to  the  yolks  add  salt,  pepper, 
chopped,  stuffed  or  ripe  olives,  and  thick  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Re-fill  the  whites,  place  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
garnish  with  mayonnaise.     Serve  as  a  salad  or  appetizer. 

Eggs  a  la  King 

6  hard  cooked  eggs.  2  tablespoons  shredded  green 

)/2  cup  finely  minced  chicken  pepper. 

or  ham.  2  tablespoons  shredded 

13^  cups  medium  white  sauce.  pimento. 

Prepare  the  white  sauce;  to  this  add  the  pimento  and 
green  pepper;  cut  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise,  remove  yolk; 
mash,  season  and  add  the  minced  chicken;  refill  the  egg 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [75] 

white,  piling  the  mixture  high.  The  mixture  can  be  easily 
forced  through  a  pastry  bag.  Place  stuffed  eggs  on  a 
platter  and  pour  the  hot  sauce  over  them.    Serve  at  once. 

Creole  Eggs 

1  cup  tomato  sauce.  1  teaspoon  butter. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  olives.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice.  \i  teaspoon  pepper. 

Mix  well  and  simmer  gently  about  10  minutes.  Grease 
4  custard  cups,  break  an  egg  into  each  one,  sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  parsley  and  set  the  cups  in  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water;  cover  and  steam  about  10  minutes,  turn 
onto  a  heated  serving  dish  and  pour  sauce  around  them. 

Baked  Eggs  with  Cheese 

Allow  1  thin  slice  of  bread  for  each  egg.  Grease  a 
baking  pan,  set  slices  of  bread  on  bottom  of  pan,  break 
egg  into  a  saucer  and  carefully  slip  onto  a  slice  of  bread. 
Sprinkle  egg  generously  with  grated  cheese,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  eggs 
are  set. 

To  Pack  Eggs 

Fresh,  clean  eggs  covered  with  water  glass  solution  and 
stored  in  a  cool  place  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  about 
a  year,  and  if  not  perfect  for  boiling,  poaching  or  frying, 
will  prove  an  economy  during  the  winter  for  all  other 
purposes.  Eggs  packed  in  a  solution  of  water  glass  are 
much  better  than  the  cold  storage  eggs.  For  packing  se- 
cure large  fresh  eggs.  They  must  be  clean,  but  do  not 
wash  them,  as  this  removes  the  natural  coating  on  the 
outside  of  the  shell.  The  water  glass  commonly  used  is  a 
syrup-thick  liquid  about  the  consistency  of  molasses. 
Only  pure  water  should  be  used  in  making  the  solution,  so 
it  is  best  to  boil  it.  Then  cool  before  mixing  with  the 
water  glass,  using  1  part  of  the  thick  water  glass  to 
9  parts  of  water.  Measure  accurately.  Have  the 
eggs  carefully  packed  in  clean  earthenware  crocks,  glass 
jars,  large  kettles  or  wooden  kegs  or  barrels.  Be  sure  the 
container  is  sweet  and  clean.  Cover  with  solution  then 
cover  container  and  store  in  a  cool  place.  If  kept  in  too 
warm  a  place  silicate  deposits  on  the  shell,  and  the  eggs 
will  not  keep  well. 


[76]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Omelets 

The  muscle  building  qualities  of  eggs  are  utilized  to  the 
fullest  extent  in  omelets,  and,  prepared  in  this  manner, 
furnish  sufficient  bulk  to  satisfy  the  appetite.  Omelets  of- 
fer an  unlimited  opportunity  for  variety  in  combination 
with  other  foods,  and  are  suitable  for  the  main  course  at 
luncheon  or  the  informal  home  dinner,  as  well  as  for 
breakfast. 

There  are  two  classes  of  omelets,  the  French  and  the 
pufFy.  The  last  named  is  best  suited  for  substantial 
omelets.  This  type  of  omelet  is  considered  somewhat 
difficult  to  make,  and  for  that  reason  few  housewives 
attempt  to  make  them.  Only  a  few  precautions  are 
necessary,  however,  and  when  these  are  thoroughly 
understood  there  should  be  no  difficulty  in  preparing  a 
variety  of  attractive,  palatable  omelets.  The  foundation 
omelet  will  always  be  the  same,  but  it  will  take  its  name 
from  whatever  food  is  used  in  combination. 

For  the  foundation  omelet  there  are  a  few  points  to 
carefully  follow,  and,  if  this  is  done,  even  the  most  inex- 
perienced housewife  may  be  successful  in  producing  a 
light,  puffy  omelet,  which  is  delightful  to  behold,  as  well 
as  to  eat.  Do  not  prepare  the  omelet  until  everything 
else  to  be  served  at  the  meal  is  in  readiness,  so  that  it  can 
be  carefully  watched  and  served  as  soon  as  cooked.  Put 
the  frying  or  omelet  pan  over  a  very  low  fire  to  heat  while 
preparing  the  omelet.  For  the  "puffy"  omelet  a  heavy 
pan  will  give  better  results,  and  do  not  allow  the  pan  to 
get  so  hot  that  when  the  fat  is  added  it  will  smoke  and 
burn.  The  mixture  is  first  cooked  in  the  frying  pan  over 
a  low  flame.  When  a  golden  brown  on  the  bottom  finish 
cooking  in  a  medium  oven  or  in  the  broiler. 

Never  use  more  than  4  eggs  for  a  "puffy"  omelet.  If  a 
larger  one  is  needed,  make  two  omelets.  Unless  your  pan 
is  very  large,  you  will  not  be  able  to  cook  a  larger  omelet 
successfully. 

The  main  point  to  observe  is  to  cook  the  omelet  at  a 
low  temperature,  otherwise  it  will  not  be  thoroughly 
cooked,  and  if  burned  or  even  browned  too  much  will  have 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [77] 

a  bitter  flavor.  If  not  sufficiently  cooked  it  will  fall  and 
be  heavy,  and  if  over-cooked  it  will  shrink  and  become 
tough.  The  omelet  should  continue  to  rise  and  become  a 
golden  brown  after  going  into  the  oven. 

When  cooked  remove  from  the  oven,  cut  across  the 
center  halfway  through,  then  fold  over  and  turn  on  a 
heated  platter. 

This  gives  the  foundation  omelet,  which  may  be  varied 
in  a  dozen  different  ways. 

When  eggs  are  beaten  separately  as  for  the  puffy 
omelet,  the  result  will  be  a  lighter  but  dryer  omelet  than 
when  eggs  are  only  slightly  beaten  together.  For  this 
reason  a  filling  of  creamy  sauce  or  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  added  just  before  folding  add  the  desired  moisture. 

Small  bits  of  left-overs  can  be  folded  into  the  mixture  to 
give  flavor;  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  ham  or  other  meats, 
free  from  fat,  bone  or  gristle;  shredded  green  pepper; 
cooked  peas,  asparagus  tips,  flaked  fish,  cooked  rice,  etc. 
When  eggs  are  very  high  a  cupful  of  soft  bread  crumbs  may 
be  soaked  in  milk,  then  added  to  the  omelet  to  give  a 
substantial  dish,  making  the  number  of  eggs  used  serve 
more  persons. 

A  French  omelet  is  cooked  entirely  in  the  frying  pan 
over  moderate  heat.  It  is  more  of  a  breakfast  omelet  and 
does  not  lend  itself  to  the  variety  possible  with  the  puffy 
omelet.     It  requires  some  skill  to  cook  properly. 

Water  or  milk  may  furnish  the  liquid.  Water  will 
produce  a  more  tender  omelet,  while  milk  furnishes  more 
nutriment. 

Foundation  Puffy  Omelet 

4  eggs,  separated.  }4  teaspoon  salt. 

4  tablespoons  water  or  milk.  2  tablespoons  shortening. 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff;  yolks  until  creamy;  add  liquid 
and  salt  to  yolks,  mix  well;  combine  mixtures,  folding 
carefully  together.  Melt  fat  in  a  warm  frying  pan  and 
when  medium  hot,  pour  in  omelet.  Cook  until  brown  on 
the  under  side,  then  finish  cooking  in  a  medium  hot  oven 
or  in  the  broiler  until  firm  in  the  center.  Cut  across 
the  center  about  halfway  through,  fold  and  turn  onto  a 
serving  dish. 


[78]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Cheese  Omelet 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  3^  cup  grated  or  diced  cheese. 

substitute.  34  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  4-egg  puffy  omelet. 
1  cup  cold  milk. 

Melt  shortening,  add  flour,  mix  well,  then  cook  until 
frothy  and  add  milk.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until 
mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  cheese  and  salt.  Stir 
until  cheese  is  melted,  having  a  low  fire.  Set  over  hot 
water  to  keep  warm  until  omelet  is  ready.  Before  folding 
omelet  add  a  tablespoonful  or  two  of  the  cheese  mixture, 
then  fold  and  turn  on  a  heated  platter  and  pour  remaining 
sauce  around  the  omelet.  Additional  seasonings  may  be 
added  such  as  mustard,  Worcestershire  sauce  or  paprika. 


Asparagus  Tip  Omelet 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  M  teaspoon  salt. 

substitute.  About  2  cups  asparagus  tips. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  4-egg  puffy  omelet. 
1  cup  cold  milk. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  stir  until  well  blended,  cook 
until  frothy,  add  milk  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until 
creamy;  add  salt  and  asparagus  tips.  Before  folding  the 
omelet  add  some  of  the  mixture,  then  fold  and  turn  on  a 
heated  platter  and  pour  remaining  mixture  around  the 
omelet.  Other  cooked  vegetables  such  as  peas,  etc.,  may 
be  used  in  place  of  asparagus  tips. 


Italian  Omelet 

2  cups  thick  tomato  puree.  1  tablespoon  onion  juice. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  H  cup  grated  cheese. 

6  olives  cut  fine.  4-egg  puffy  omelet. 

Heat  tomato  puree,  add  salt,  olives  and  onion  juice. 
Pour  mixture  around  the  omelet  and  sprinkle  over  with 
grated  cheese. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [79] 

Oyster  Omelet  No.  1 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  ]/^  teaspoon  salt. 

substitute.  Paprika. 

3  tablespoons  flour.  1  cup  oysters. 

13^  cups  cold  milk.  4  egg  puffy  omelet. 

Or  use  half  milk  and  half 

oyster  liquor. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth,  then  cook 
until  frothy  and  add  milk;  cook,  stirring  constantly, 
until  creamy;  season  and  add  oysters.  Before  folding 
omelet,  add  part  of  the  creamed  oyster  mixture,  then  fold, 
turn  onto  a  serving  plate  and  pour  remaining  mixture 
around  the  omelet.  Shrimps,  crab  or  diced  lobster  may  be 
used  in  the  same  manner. 

Oyster  Omelet  No.  2 

Use  the  4-egg  puffy  omelet  foimdation. 

Add  half  a  cup  of  chopped  oysters  to  the  beaten  egg 
yolks,  adding  4  tablespoons  of  the  oyster  juice  and 
season.  Fold  in  the  well-beaten  egg  whites  and  cook  as 
for  pufFy  omelet. 

Ham  Omelet 

1  cup  cooked  minced  ham.  4-egg  puffy  omelet. 

Heat  the  ham  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  2  tablespoons 
of  the  minced  ham  to  the  omelet  before  cooking.  When 
omelet  is  cooked  and  before  folding  add  remainder  of 
the  ham.     Fold  and  serve. 

Green  Pepper  Omelet 

3  tablespoons  finely  shredded         4-egg  puffy  omelet, 
green  pepper. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  1  whole  green  pepper  and 
let  stand  10  minutes.  Then  remove  seeds  and  shred.  Add 
to  omelet  before  cooking.  Before  folding  omelet  add  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  then  fold  and  serve. 

Tomato  Omelet 

Use  the  4-egg  puffy  omelet  foundation. 

When  the  omelet  is  ready  to  place  in  the  oven,  cover  the 
top  with  sliced  raw  tomatoes,  season,  cover  over  with  small 
bits  of  butter,  then  place  in  the  oven  and  cook  about  10 
minutes.    Fold  and  serve. 


[80]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Spanish  Omelet 

1  onion,  thinly  sliced.  1  cup  tomato  sauce  ti  strained 

^  n^in^r""  Shredded  green  ^^^'poon  salt. 

P^PP^^'  Pepper  to  taste. 

4  minced  olives  (green  or  ripe).       4-egg  puffy  omelet. 

Fry  the  onion  a  golden  brown  in  bacon  or  ham  drippings, 
add  tomato,  green  pepper  and  olives,  simmer  gently  until 
onions  are  cooked.  Before  folding  omelet  add  1  or  2 
tablespoons  of  this  mixture,  then  fold  and  pour  remainder 
of  mixture  around  the  omelet.    Serve  at  once. 

Other  Combinations  for  Omelets 

Creamed  dried  beef,  creamed  chicken  or  veal,  creamed 
flaked  fish. 

Any  of  these  ingredients  and  many  more  may  be  pre- 
pared in  the  usual  manner  with  a  white  sauce  and  poured 
around  the  omelet,  the  advantage  being  an  unusual  dish, 
hearty  and  substantial,  although  the  creamed  food  used 
in  combination  can  consist  of  several  varieties  of  left- 
overs. 

French  Omelet 

2  eggs.  1  tablespoon  of  butter  or  sub- 

2  tablespoons  of  warm  water.  stitute. 
34  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Heat  butter  in  a  very  smooth  frying  pan.  Beat  eggs 
slightly,  add  water  and  salt.  Pour  into  hot  pan  and  set 
over  a  lowfire;as  the  omelet  cooks  on  the  edges  lift  it  up  and 
allow  the  uncooked  portion  to  run  under  that  which  is 
cooked.  Continue  until  omelet  is  cooked,  then  roll  like  a 
jelly  roll  and  remove  to  a  hot  platter. 

Bread  Omelet 

3^  cup  bread  crimibs.  34  teaspoon  salt. 

}4  cup  milk.  1  tablespoon  butter  or 

3  eggs  slightly  beaten.  substitute. 

Add  bread  crumbs  to  milk  and  soak  10  minutes.  Beat 
eggs;  add  salt  and  baked  bread  crumbs.  Heat  butter  in  a 
smooth  frying  pan  then  pour  in  the  mixture. 

Cook  over  a  low  fire  until  a  delicate  brown  on  the  under- 
side, then  place  in  the  oven  or  broiler  and  brown  on  top. 
Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  the  center  and  fold. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [81] 

SWEET  OMELETS 
Jelly  Omelet 

Use  the  puffy  omelet.  Take  a  glass  of  jelly  (currant 
preferred)  and  beat  it  with  a  fork.  Before  folding  omelet 
spread  jelly  over  the  top,  then  fold,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  serve.  Jam,  marmalade  or  fruit  butters  may 
replace  the  jelly.  This  makes  a  fine  luncheon  dish  entree 
or  may  be  used  for  dessert. 

Strawberry  Omelet 

3  cups  fresh  berries.  }/$  teaspoon  of  nutmeg. 

Sugar  to  taste.  4-egg  pufify  omelet. 

Before  preparing  omelet  wash  and  hull  strawberries, 
add  sugar  and  nutmeg  and  mash  slightly.  When  omelet 
is  cooked  and  before  folding,  add  some  of  the  strawberries, 
then  fold  and  pour  remaining  strawberries  around  the 
omelet.  Sprinkle  omelet  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve. 
This  makes  an  appealing  Sunday  morning  breakfast  dish. 
Other  fruits,  fresh  or  cooked,  may  be  used  in  the  same 
manner. 

Banana  Omelet 

Use  the  4-egg  puffy  omelet.  Do  not  cook  on  top  of 
the  fire  quite  as  long  as  the  plain  omelet.  Have  bananas 
sliced  lengthwise  very  thin.  Place  slices  close  together 
over  the  top  of  the  omelet,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  lemon 
juice.  Place  in  a  medium  oven  and  bake  until  omelet  is 
firm  in  the  center  and  bananas  are  tender,  about  10  minutes. 
Fold  omelet  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  a  hot 
pudding  sauce.    An  entree  or  dessert. 


CHAPTER  FIVE 

FISH 

MEAT 

POULTRY 


84]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 


Fish  Cookery 


jiSH  must  be  well  cooked  to  be  palatable  and 
wholesome.  It  is  cooked  sufficiently  when  the 
flesh  separates  easily  from  the  bones.  Fish  is 
always  tender.  It  is  most  essential  that  fish 
should  be  perfectly  fresh,  thoroughly  cooked,  and  care- 
fully cleaned.  If  under-done,  it  is  not  eatable;  if  cooked 
too  long,  it  is  dry  and  loses  most  of  its  flavor. 

When  perfectly  fresh,  the  eyes  of  fish  are  bright  and 
clear,  the  flesh  is  firm  and  odorless. 

Fish  may  be  divided  into  three  clases,  namely,  white, 
oily  and  shell  fish.  The  white  and  oily  fish  may  be  served 
in  place  of  meat;  and  in  general,  the  methods  of  cooking 
fish  are  the  same  as  those  used  in  meat  cookery. 

Slices  of  fish  require  but  little  attention.  They  should 
be  carefully  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth,  or  let  the  cold 
water  from  the  faucet  run  over  them,  then  wipe  dry. 
Never  allow  fish  to  stand  in  water  after  it  has  been 
sliced.  Whole  fish,  even  when  cleaned  at  the  market,  will 
require  a  thorough  washing  to  remove  all  the  blood  from 
the  inside  of  the  backbone. 

White  fish  is  not  so  nourishing  as  oily  fish.  In  this 
type  of  fish  all  of  the  oil  is  contained  in  the  liver,  making 
the  flesh  somewhat  dry.  A  rich  sauce  usually  accompanies 
fish  of  this  kind  to  supply  the  lacking  fat. 

The  oily  fish,  such  as  salmon,  mackerel,  etc.,  have  the 
oil  distributed  throughout  the  flesh.  Therefore  this  type 
of  fish  is  more  nourishing  than  the  white  fish.  Both 
kinds  are  useful  in  the  diet  of  the  convalescent  or  persons 
suff^ering  from  indigestion,  although  the  white  fish  is 
preferable  for  an  invalid. 

In  composition,  fish  is  much  like  meat;  but  unlike  meat 
in  that  it  must  be  eaten  soon  after  it  is  killed,  as  it  deteri- 
orates very  quickly.  It  is  difficult  to  keep  fish  in  the  house 
either  before  or  after  cooking,  as  the  odor  is  very  pene- 
trating and  other  foods  absorb  it.  If  put  into  the  refriger- 
ator uncovered  it  contaminates  all  other  foods.  But  if 
placed  in  a  covered  pail  which  is  kept  for  this  purpose,  the 
odor  will  not  penetrate  to  the  other  foods. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [85] 

All  of  the  various  methods  of  cooking  may  be  applied 
to  fish — baking,  frying,  sauteing,  boiling,  steaming  and 
broiling.  The  principal  thing  is  to  be  sure  that  the  fish 
is  thoroughly  cooked  and  still  not  over-cooked.  It  is 
really  important  to  keep  a  set  of  utensils  to  use  for  cooking 
fish  only,  as  the  flavor  is  so  distinct  that  even  the  most 
careful  washing  does  not  always  remove  it.  A  frying  pan 
seems  to  be  the  most  difficult  utensil  from  which  to  remove 
this  odor. 

Frying,  sauteing  and  broiling  are  the  most  popular 
methods  of  preparing  fish.  All  fish  are  greatly  improved 
for  serving  if  the  bones  are  removed.  A  boned  fish,  stuffed 
and  baked,  and  served  with  a  suitable  sauce,  is  most 
appetizing  and  will  usually  be  relished  even  by  persons 
who  ordinarily  refuse  fish. 

Then,  too,  many  attractive  dishes  can  be  made  from  the 
left-over  fish,  and  to  many  persons  these  dishes  appeal 
more  than  when  the  fish  is  freshly  cooked. 

It  is  less  wasteful  to  steam  fish  than  it  is  to  boil  it. 
However,  it  is  possible  when  boiling  to  add  flavoring 
which  will  make  the  fish  more  palatable.  In  boiling  a 
fish  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar 
to  every  2  quarts  of  water  and  use  enough  water  to 
entirely  cover  the  fish.  Vinegar  tends  to  make  the  flesh 
firm.  Soup  vegetables,  a  clove  or  a  bit  of  bay  leaf  may 
also  be  added  to  the  water  in  which  the  fish  is  cooked.  Do 
not  pour  cold  water  over  the  fish,  as  it  will  draw  out  the 
juices;  have  the  water  hot  but  not  boiling,  then  bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  simmer  gently  until  the  flesh  will 
leave  the  bones  and  is  tender.  Ten  minutes'  cooking  may 
be  allowed  for  each  pound  of  fish,  after  the  water  has 
reached  the  simmering  point. 

Fish  will  hold  its  shape  and  can  be  handled  easier  if 
wrapped  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  before  placing  in  the 
hot  water.  A  rack  or  plate  should  be  placed  on  the  bottom 
of  the  kettle  to  prevent  the  fish  from  sticking  and  possibly 
burning.  Always  serve  a  salad  (green  preferred)  with  a 
French  dressing  or  slices  of  lemon  with  all  fish  dishes. 
If  sauces  are  used,  they  should  be  seasoned  with  lemon 
juice. 


[86]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Shellfish 

Shellfish  are  divided  into  two  classes.  Clams,  oysters, 
scallops  and  mussels  belong  to  one  class,  and  lobsters 
crabs,  shrimps  and  crawfish  belong  to  another  class. 

Oysters  are  the  most  important  of  the  shellfish,  although 
shrimps  are  higher  in  food  value.  Both  clams  and  oysters 
are  more  easily  digested  if  eaten  raw.  With  the  exception 
of  the  lobster  all  fish  are  easy  to  digest,  although  the  lean 
fish  is  more  readily  assimilated  than  the  fat.  The  flesh  of 
the  lobster  is  coarse,  dense  and  difficult  of  digestion. 

Escalloped  Fish 

Place  alternating  layers  of  fish  and  soft  bread  crumbs  in 
a  buttered  baking  dish,  covering  the  whole  with  milk  or 
a  thin  white  sauce.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
bake  until  firm.  Variety  may  be  given  this  dish  by 
using  tomato  sauce  instead  of  milk. 

Fish  Pie 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  well-seasoned  creamed  fish, 
then  cover  with  mashed  potatoes  and  bake  until  potatoes 
are  a  golden  brown. 

Baked  Fish  with  Stuffing 

Prepare  a  bread  stuffing,  fill  the  opening  two-thirds 
full  and  then  sew  firmly.  Cut  two  or  three  gashes  in  the 
side  of  the  fish  and  lay  a  piece  of  salt  pork  in  each  gash. 
Dredge  fish  with  flour,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
lay  on  a  rack  or  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  in  a  baking  pan. 
Bake  15  minutes  for  each  pound  of  fish,  basting  fre- 
quently. The  pork  should  supply  sufficient  fat  for 
basting;  if  not,  add  a  very  little  water. 

Baked  Fish 

Chop  1  small  onion  and  yi  green  pepper  very  fine, 
brush  fish  over  with  melted  fat,  place  in  the  baking  pan, 
pile  the  onion  and  green  pepper  on  top,  season  well  and 
bake.  By  baking  on  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  the  fish  can 
easily  be  removed  from  the  pan  without  breaking. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [87]. 

Fillets  of  Fish 

Wash  and  dry  fillets.  Season,  roll  in  fine  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  dip  in  slightly  beaten  egg  diluted  with 
1  tablespoon  of  cold  water;  dip  in  crumbs  again,  then 
fry  in  deep  fat.  Prepare  all  the  fillets  before  beginning 
to  cook  any  of  them.  Vegetable  oil  is  the  best  fat  to  use 
for  frying  fish.  Heat  until  a  very  slight  trace  of  smoke 
can  be  seen,  then  test  with  a  cube  of  bread.  Drop  bread 
in  the  fat  and  count  40.  If  the  fat  is  right  the  bread  will 
be  a  golden  brown;  if  too  hot  it  will  be  burned;  if  not 
hot  enough  it  will  not  be  brown.  Test  the  fat  each  time 
before  adding  fish.  Drain  fried  fish  on  brown  paper. 
This  is  the  best  method  for  fr3nng  fish.  It  will  be  crisp 
and  if  the  fat  has  been  properly  tested  the  fish  will  not  be 
oily.    Serve  with  Tartar  sauce  or  slices  of  lemon. 


Pan  Fried  or  Sauteed  Fish 

Prepare  the  fish  as  for  deep  fat  frying,  then  cook  in  a  fry- 
ing pan  in  a  small  quanity  of  fat.  If  sauteed  without  crumb- 
ing, the  fish  will  break  easily  and  will  not  present  an  appe- 
tizing appearance.  Salt  pork  adds  flavor  to  the  fish  and 
is  the  best  fat  to  use  for  sauteing. 

Butter  adds  flavor  but  burns  too  easily. 


To  Boil  Fish 

Have  water  boiling.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  vinegar  to 
a  quart  of  water,  also  a  tablespoon  each  of  chopped  onion 
and  carrot,  a  tiny  bit  of  bay  leaf  and  thyme.  Lower  the 
fish  gently  into  the  water  and  cook  at  the  simmering  point 
until  tender.  The  time  required  is  usually  from  6  to  10 
minutes  for  each  pound  of  fish. 

To  Steam  Fish 

Season  fish  with  salt,  pepper,  cover  top  with  thin  strips 
of  salt  pork  and  place  on  a  plate.  Set  in  a  steamer  over 
boiling  water,  cover  closely  and  steam  10  to  12  minutes 
for  each  pound  of  fish. 


[88]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

To  Boil  Fish 

Wash  fish,  wipe  dry  and  brush  it  over  with  melted 
butter  or  olive  oil.  Place  on  a  double  wire  toaster  or 
broiler  and  cook  over  hot  coals  or  in  the  gas  broiler. 
Turn  every  minute  until  both  sides  are  a  delicate  brown. 
If  gas  broiler  is  used  heat  well  before  cooking  fish,  reducing 
the  heat  as  soon  as  fish  is  placed  in  the  broiler.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  onion  or  lemon  juice. 

Creamed  Fish 

For  each  cupful  of  diced  or  flaxed  fish  allow  1  cupful 
of  well-seasoned  white  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  parsley  or  hard  cooked  egg.  Serve  in  a  casserole, 
ramekins  or  poured  over  toast  points.  Garnish  with 
thin  slices  of  lemon  sprinkled  with  paprika. 

Fish  Croquettes 

1  cup  flaked  or  diced  cooked  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

fish.  3^  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

1  cup  of  thick  white  sauce.  sauce. 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice.  }/2  teaspoon  salt. 

For  white  sauce  melt  4  tablespoons  of  butter  or  sub- 
stitute; add  4  tablespoons  of  flour.  Mix  until  well  blended 
— return  to  the  fire,  cook  until  frothy,  then  add  1  cup  of 
cold  milk.  Stir  constantly  until  very  thick.  Season,  add 
fish  and  pour  onto  a  platter,  spreading  about  an  inch 
thick.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  chilled  shape  into  oblong 
croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg  diluted  with 
1  tablespoon  of  cold  water;  dip  in  crumbs  again,  then  fry 
in  deep  fat.  To  test  fat  drop  in  a  cube  of  bread;  it  should 
become  a  goden  brown  while  you  count  40.  Drain  on 
brown  paper  and  serve  with  a  tomato  or  white  sauce. 

Oyster  Stew 

2  cups  of  oysters.  2  cups  of  thin  white  sauce. 

Cook  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  or  water  until  the  edges 
slightly  curl. 

Have  white  sauce  prepared  and  combine  just  before 
serving. 

For  white   sauce   melt   2   tablespoons   of  butter,    add 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [89] 

2  tablespoons  of  flour;  mix  until  well  blended,  then 
cook  until  forthy  and  add  2  cups  of  milk  or  half  milk 
and  half  oyster  liquor.    Season  and  serve. 

Fried  Oysters 

Drain  and  dry  oysters.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Beat  1  egg,  add  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water.  Dip  oysters 
in  fine  dry  bread  crumbs,  then  in  the  beaten  egg,  then 
in  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat  or  pan  fry  in  a  hot  frying 
pan  in  2  tablespoons  of  fat.  Test  the  deep  fat  with  a 
cube  of  bread.  It  should  become  a  golden  brown  while 
you  count  60.    Serve  with  lemon  slices. 

Oysters  and  Bacon 

Drain  and  dry  oysters.  Roll  each  oyster  in  a  slice  of 
bacon  and  fasten  with  a  tooth  pick.  Cook  in  a  hot  frying 
pan  until  bacon  is  crisp.    Serve  on  toast. 

Creamed  Oysters  or  Clams 

Follow  directions  for  creamed  fish.  Creamed  oysters 
can  be  used  to  fill  patty  shells. 

Scalloped  Oysters 

Follow  directions  for  scalloped  fish. 

Panned  Oysters  or  Clams 

Heat  2  tablespoons  of  butter  or  substitute  in  a  heavy 
frying  pan.  Add  2  cups  of  drained  oysters.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Shake  the  pan  con- 
stantly until  the  edges  of  the  oysters  are  curled.  Serve 
on  buttered  toast. 

Steamed  Clams 

Clams  should  be  bought  alive  in  the  shell.  Wash  well 
in  several  waters  to  remove  all  sand.  Put  into  a  large 
kettle.  Allow  ^^  cup  of  boiling  water  for  2  quarts  of 
clams.  Cover  kettle  closely  and  steam  until  the  shells 
are  partially  open.  If  liked  a  clove  of  garlic  or  an  onion 
may  be  added  for  flavor.     Serve  with  melted  butter. 


[90]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Lobster  or  Crab  Newberg 

2  cups  diced  lobster.  1  egg  or  2  egg  yolks. 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  or  sub-  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

stitute.  y2  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  of  thin  cream  or  rich  Nutmeg, 
milk.  Paprika. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  lobster  and  cook  2  minutes.  Add 
cream,  beaten  egg  and  cook  over  hot  water  until  thickened, 
stirring  constantly.     Add  seasonings  and  serve. 

Deviled  Lobster  or  Crab 

2  cups  diced  lobster.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

V/2  cups  milk.  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice. 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  sub-  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 
stitute.  sauce. 

3  tablespoons  flour.  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

Yi  teaspoon  mustard.  parsley. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour;  mix  until  well  blended,  cook 
until  frothy;  add  milk;  stir  constantly  until  thickened. 
Mix  seasonings  and  add  with  diced  lobster.  Put  into 
ramekins  or  baking  shells,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and 
bake  about  15  minutes  or  until  a  golden  brown. 

Salt  Fish 

All  dried  salt  fish  should  be  soaked  for  several  hours  in 
lukewarm  water. 

Creamed  Codfish 

The  fish  should  be  picked  into  small  pieces;  this  is 
easier  to  do  before  the  fish  has  been  soaked.  Drain, 
cover  with  lukewarm  water  and  simmer  10  minutes. 
Prepare  a  white  sauce  as  for  creamed  fish  and  garnish 
with  slices  of  hard  cooked  eggs. 

Fish  Balls 

1  cup  of  shredded  cooked  fish,       1  egg  beaten  slightly;  salt  if 
IV2  cups  mashed  potatoes.  necessary. 

Mix,  shape  into  balls;  roll  in  flour.  Heat  2  table- 
spoons of  dripping  or  fat  and  fry  the  fish  balls  until  a 
golden  brown  on  each  side. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [91] 

Meat 

Meat  is  one  of  the  chief  sources  of  tissue  building  (pro- 
tein) food.  Its  food  value  is  high,  and  so  unfortunately  is 
the  price.  The  average  American  housewife  serves  meat  at 
least  once  a  day.  If  the  amount  of  meat  is  reduced,  other 
food  equally  nutritive  must  be  substituted.  The  problem 
with  most  housekeepers  at  present  is  how  to  keep  the  meat 
bill  down  and  still  serve  palatable  meals.  This  requires 
careful  study  and  should  include  a  knowledge  of  the 
different  cuts  of  meat,  the  amount  of  waste  and  quality.  If 
these  points  are  not  understood,  it  is  not  possible  to  pur- 
chase to  the  best  advantage.  And  most  important,  the 
marketing  should  be  "personally  conducted,"  if  the  best 
results  are  to  be  obtained.  To  order  by  telephone  often 
adds  to  the  cost  due  to  lack  of  details,  such  as  thickness, 
exact  weight  or  choice  cuts,  etc.,  which  the  dealer  will  not 
observe  as  carefully  as  the  purchaser.  Then  again,  the 
market  man  will  probably  take  a  personal  interest  in  hold- 
ing your  trade  if  he  finds  you  know  what  you  want,  that 
you  are  familiar  with  the  different  cuts  of  meat  and  under- 
stand their  qualities. 

The  best  method  of  cooking  meat  depends  entirely  upon 
the  tenderness,  texture  and  flavor.  The  tenderness  will 
depend  upon  the  connective  tissue;  tender,  fine  grained 
meats  are  taken  from  the  least  muscular  parts  of  the 
animal  and  tough,  coarse  fibered  sections  come  from 
portions  which  are  most  used.  One-fourth  of  the  weight 
of  a  dressed  beef  consists  of  the  tender  meat,  and  all  of 
these  cuts  are  expensive.  The  less  tender  cuts  are  just  as 
nutritious;  in  fact,  many  of  the  cheaper  cuts  have  more 
food  value  than  the  tender  meat,  but  require  more  atten- 
tion in  their  preparation.  If  cooked  properly,  these 
cheaper  cuts  will  be  found  juicy  and  palatable. 

The  value  of  any  cut  of  meat  depends  upon  the  quantity 
of  waste,  bone,  gristle,  etc.  For  example,  the  prime  ribs 
are  even  higher  than  they  seem,  because  the  purchaser  has 
to  pay  for  so  much  bone;  while  some  of  the  cheaper  meats 
have  so  much  waste  in  gristle,  fat  and  bone  that  they 
would  be  equal  in  price  to  more  tender  cuts. 


[92]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

All  meat  cookery  is  governed  by  two  general  principles. 
For  tender,  fine  grained  meats  there  should  be  intense  heat, 
no  liquid,  and  the  meat  should  be  seasoned  after  cooking. 
The  high  temperature  sears  the  surface  and  keeps  the 
juice  from  escaping.  The  meat  is  cooked  quickly  because, 
being  tender,  it  would  harden  and  become  dry  if  it  were 
allowed  to  remain  in  too  great  a  heat  for  a  long  period.  It 
is  seasoned  after  cooking  because  the  salt  would  tend  to 
draw  out  the  juices,  which  with  tender  meats  is  not  de- 
sirable. Water  is  not  added  because  it  would  cause  steam, 
which  would  affect  the  brown,  crisp  surface  of  the  meat. 
Plenty  of  fat  instead  of  liquid  should  be  used  for  basting. 

Coarse,  tough  meats  require  quick  surface  searing,  long, 
slow  cooking  and  a  small  amount  of  water.  The  meat  is 
seared  in  order  to  retain  the  greater  part  of  the  juices,  and 
then  cooked  slowly  in  a  small  amount  of  water  and  closely 
covered;  it  may  be  seasoned  during  the  cooking  process. 
The  meat  when  cooked  should  be  juicy,  due  to  searing,  and 
tender  because  of  the  slow  cooking. 

To  understand  which  method  to  use  is  the  secret  of 
economy  in  meat  cookery.  The  best  and  most  expensive 
cuts  of  meat  are  selected  for  roasting,  broiling  or  pan 
broiling.  The  cheaper  or  coarser  portions  are  made  into 
stews,  soups,  pot  roast,  braised  or  boiled.  The  cheaper 
cuts  of  meat  are  just  as  high  in  food  value  as  the  more 
tender  ones,  thus  offering  the  housewife  the  necessary 
variety. 

Meat  which  is  dry  and  lean  is  much  improved  by  the 
addition  of  pork  fat,  either  salt  or  fresh.  This  may  be 
added  by  placing  thin  strips  over  the  upper  surface  of  the 
meat,  or  strips  of  fat  about  half  an  inch  thick  can  be  in- 
serted through  cuts  made  with  a  sharp  pointed  knife  and 
extended  clear  through  if  possible.  Or  a  larding  needle 
may  be  used  and  strips  of  pork  drawn  through  in  stitches 
about  an  inch  long.  These  stitches  are  taken  at  regular 
intervals  over  the  entire  surface  of  the  meat.  Take  the 
strips  of  pork  as  near  the  rind  as  possible  and  cut  length- 
wise with  the  rind. 

Red  meats,  such  as  beef  and  mutton,  are  more  stimulat- 
ing than  the  white  meat  of  poultry  or  veal.  Beef  is  the 
most  nutritious,  mutton  being  second.    Lamb  and  veal  are 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [93] 

less  nutritious  than  the  flesh  of  full-grown  animals.  Dried 
or  smoked  beef  contains  as  much  nutriment  as  the  fresh 
meat,  while  corned  beef  loses  in  food  value,  the  brine 
drawing  out  some  of  the  juices.  Aleat  is  too  expen- 
sive a  food  to  be  thoughtlessly  purchased  or  carelessly 
cooked,  and  the  meat  bill  may  be  reduced  by  making  more 
use  of  the  less  expensive  cuts. 


Roast  Meat 

Only  the  tender  cuts  of  meat  should  be  roasted.  The 
following  rules  will  apply  to  all  roast  meats: 

Wipe  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,  do  not  wash.  Dredge 
with  flour  and  if  the  meat  is  not  fat  some  fat  should  be 
added. 

Place  in  a  hot  oven  to  sear  the  outer  surface  as  soon  as 
possible,  thus  preventing  rich  juices  from  escaping. 

When  the  surface  of  the  meat  is  brown,  the  heat  of  the 
oven  should  be  reduced  and  the  cooking  continued  more 
slowly. 

A  medium  sized  roast  should  be  basted  at  least  four 
times  during  the  cooking,  and  at  the  last  basting  the  salt 
and  pepper  may  be  added. 

Beef  and  mutton  are  roasted  15  minutes  to  the  pound, 
veal  and  lamb  20  minutes. 

Pork  from  20  to  25  minutes. 

An  additional  15  minutes  must  be  added  to  the  cooking 
for  the  length  of  time  it  takes  to  heat  the  meat  through,  so 
that  the  time  allowed  for  each  pound  is  really  after  the 
meat  is  thoroughly  heated. 

Perfectly  roasted  meat  will  be  a  rich  brown  on  the  sur- 
face. Beef  and  mutton  should  show  a  pinkish  tint  when 
sliced.  Veal  and  lamb  should  show  no  pink.  Mutton  is 
encased  in  a  thick  skin  which  should  be  removed,  as  it  will 
impart  that  peculiar  flavor  so  objectionable  to  many.  This 
skin  is  tough  and  when  loosened  at  the  edges  can  easily 
be  pulled  off. 


[94]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Yorkshire  Pudding  to  Accompany  Roast. 

y^  cup  milk.  y2  cup  sifted  flour. 

y  teaspoon  salt.  1  egg. 

Add  salt  and  flour  to  milk  and  beat  with  an  egg  beater 
until  mixture  is  smooth;  then  add  egg  unbeaten  and  con- 
tinue to  beat  about  2  minutes.  Do  not  prepare  until 
roast  is  cooked.  Remove  meat  from  pan  and  place  in  a 
warming  oven  or  cover  to  keep  hot.  Pour  batter  in  pan 
and  bake  about  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  with 
the  fat  in  the  pan  after  the  first  5  minutes  of  cooking.  Cut 
in  squares,  and  use  as  a  garnish  with  roast.  This  will  not 
interfere  with  making  a  gravy  if  desired,  although  a  fine 
cut  of  roast  beef  should  be  cooked  so  that  the  juice  of  the 
meat  provides  all  the  gravy  needed. 

Broiled  Meat 

Tender  steaks,  chops  and  cutlets,  all  fine  grained  meats 
may  be  broiled.  They  are  cooked  on  the  same  general 
principles  that  apply  to  roast  meat.  They,  too,  must  be 
subjected  to  an  intense  heat  in  order  to  sear  the  outer  sur- 
face to  prevent  the  loss  of  the  rich  juices.  Have  the 
broiler  of  a  gas  or  lectric  range  very  hot.  If  coal  is  used 
have  a  bed  of  hot  coals  with  no  flame.  Rub  broiler  over 
lightly  with  fat.  Wipe  meat  with  a  damp  cloth;  trim  off^ 
all  excessive  fat  and  remove  the  skin  from  chops  if  the 
butcher  has  not  done  so.  Reduce  the  heat  of  gas  so  there 
will  be  no  danger  of  the  meat  catching  fire.  Place  meat 
about  1  inch  from  the  flame  at  first  so  that  the  meat  will 
sear  quickly.  Cooking  may  be  finished  farther  from  the 
flame.  Allow  about  5  minutes  for  each  side  of  a  steak  1 
inch  thick  if  desired  rare;  longer  if  to  be  well  done,  or  if  the 
steak  is  more  than  an  inch  thick,  watch  very  closely.  Have 
the  rest  of  the  dinner  completely  cooked  and  ready  to 
serve  so  that  the  meat  can  be  served  at  once.  Place  on  a 
hot  platter,  pour  melted  butter  over  the  top  and  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Pan  Broiled  Meats 

Select  only  the  tender  cuts  of  meat.  Heat  a  heavy 
frying  pan  very  hot.    Do  not  add  fat;  that  on  the  meat  is 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [95] 

sufficent.  Turn  every  2  minutes  until  cooked.  Place  on 
a  hot  platter,  pour  over  a  little  melted  butter  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Planked  Steak 

The  meat  is  broiled  just  enough  to  sear  the  surface  then 
placed  in  the  center  of  a  well-heated,  slightly  buttered 
plank.  Mashed  potatoes,  vegetables,  etc.,  must  be  pre- 
pared before  the  steak  is  broiled.  Make  a  border  on  the 
edge  of  the  plank  of  mashed  potatoes  forced  through  a 
pastry  bag  with  a  star  tube,  or  arrange  potatoes  with  a 
spoon.  Brush  potato  with  beaten  egg.  Place  vegetables 
inside  the  potato  border  around  the  steak.  Boiled  onions, 
cauliflower,  stuffed  tomatoes  or  peppers,  asparagus  tips, 
almost  any  vetegable  is  suitable.  Place  in  a  very  hot  oven 
until  the  potatoes  are  a  golden  brown  and  the  steak  has 
finished  cooking.  Chopped  meat  may  be  shaped  like  a 
steak,  broiled  and  cooked  on  a  plank.  Put  bananas  cut 
in  thirds  lengthwise  over  the  top  of  the  meat  and  garnish 
as  for  steak. 

Stuffed  Steak 

1  flank  steak.  K  teaspoon  sage. 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs.  H  teaspoon  pepper. 

3^  teaspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  grated  onion. 

Mix  crumbs  and  seasonings  with  3^  cup  of  melted  butter 
or  substitute.  Place  dressing  in  center  of  steak,  roll  and 
tie  or  skewer  in  shape.  Dredge  with  flour,  place  a  few 
strips  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  over  the  top  and  place  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven;  baste  several  times.  Serve  with  a 
brown  gravy,  to  which  a  few  dried  mushrooms  have  been 
added;  or  serve  with  a  horseradish  sauce. 

Broiled  Flank  Steak 

Purchase  a  flank  steak.  Place  a  few  strips  of  thinly 
sliced  bacon  over  it,  then  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll  and  tie 
firmly  every  2  inches.  Cut  into  slices  about  an  inch 
thick,  so  that  each  slice  will  be  tied  in  the  center.  Broil  on 
each  side  about  4  minutes  in  a  hot  broiler,  then  finish  in  a 
hot  oven.    Garnish  with  banana  fritters  or  sauted  bananas. 


[96]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Pounded  Round  Steak 

Wipe  meat  with  a  damp  cloth.  Cut  into  portions  for 
individual  service.  With  a  wooden  potato  masher  pound 
a  tablespoonful  or  more  of  flour  into  each  portion.  The 
pounding  breaks  the  tough  connective  tissue  and  the  flour 
absorbs  the  juices.  Cook  in  a  hot  frying  pan  in  beef 
drippings. 

Pot  Roast 

This  method  of  cooking  meat  is  for  the  less  tender  cuts. 
It  is  really  a  type  of  braising,  only  a  heavy,  closely  covered 
kettle  is  used  on  top  of  the  stove  instead  of  using  the  oven. 
Wipe  meat  and  dredge  with  flour.  Heat  the  kettle 
thoroughly,  add  2  or  more  tablespoonfuls  of  drippings; 
some  of  the  beef  suet  may  be  rendered  for  this  purpose. 

Sear  the  entire  surface  of  meat  until  crust  is  formed. 
Set  a  small  wire  rack  on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  place 
the  meat  on  the  rack,  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cook 
under  the  boiling  point  for  3  or  4  hours  or  until  meat  is 
tender,  about  40  minutes  for  each  pound.  When  half 
cooked  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  an  onion  may  be  added 
or  a  bit  of  bay  leaf  and  2  or  3  whole  cloves.  Remove  meat 
to  a  hot  platter.  If  any  liquor  remains  pour  off".  Add  2 
tablespoons  of  drippings  to  the  kettle,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
flour,  cook  until  brown,  then  add  2  cups  of  liquid;  that 
which  was  left  from  the  roast,  and  enough  stock  or  water 
to  make  the  required  amount.  Season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  kitchen  bouquet,  a  liquid  for  seasoning 
and  giving  gravies  and  sauces  a  rich  color. 

Braised  Beef 

Braising  is  steaming  meat  in  its  own  juices  in  the  oven — 
a  method  suitable  for  solid  pieces  of  meat  not  tender 
enough  for  roasting,  but  of  better  quality  than  those 
utilized  in  soups  and  stews.  The  retention  of  steam  under 
a  cover,  together  with  basting  with  the  broth,  keeps  the 
meat  moist  enough  to  permit  the  juices  to  flow,  while  the 
oven  heat  is  intense  enough  to  develop  a  rich  flavor  in  both 
meat  and  broth. 

Three  pounds  of  beef  from  the  lower  part  of  the  round. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [97] 

2  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  or  drippings,  ^  cup  of  carrot, 
turnip,  onion  and  celery,  or  onion  only  if  other  vegetables 
are  not  available.  Try  out  pork  and  remove  scraps  or  melt 
drippings.  Wipe  meat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  brown  entire  surface  in  hot  fat. 
When  turning  meat,  avoid  piercing  with  fork  or  skewer, 
which  allows  the  inner  juices  to  escape.  Place  in  deep 
heavy  kettle  or  casserole,  surround  with  vegetables  and  3 
cups  of  boiling  w^ater,  add  2  whole  cloves  and  a  tiny  bit  of 
bay  leaf;  cover  closely  and  cook  about  4  hours  in  a  very 
slow  oven,  basting  every  half  hour  and  turning  after  the 
second  hour.  Throughout  the  cooking  the  liquid  should 
be  kept  below  the  boiling  point. 

When  cooked  remove  the  meat  and  strain  the  liquid 
remaining;  remove  vegetables,  which  are  used  for  flavoring 
only.  For  each  cupful  of  liquid  allow  1  level  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  and  1  tablespoonful  of  beef  dripping.  Melt 
the  fat,  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth,  then  cook  until  frothy 
and  add  liquid  and  stir  until  mixture  thickens.  Several 
olives,  green  or  ripe,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  horseradish  may 
be  added  to  the  sauce.  If  the  water  has  not  been 
allowed  to  boil,  there  should  be  sufficient  liquid  to  make 
the  sauce. 

Casserole  of  Beef 

Cut  round  steak  or  flank  in  pieces  about  2  inches  square; 
roll  in  flour  and  let  brown  in  salt  pork  fat  or  drippings; 
remove  to  a  casserole  and  add  broth  or  hot  water  to  cover; 
add  more  fat  to  the  pan  and  in  it  brown  a  small  onion  for 
each  service,  add  these  to  the  casserole;  cover  and  let  cook 
about  2  hours,  or  until  nearly  tender.    Cut  3  potatoes  and 

3  carrots  in  cubes;  parboil  5  minutes,  then  brown  in  a 
frying  pan,  add  to  meat  yi  hour  before  serving  together 
with  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  from  the  baking 
dish  or  in  individual  casseroles. 


Boiled  Beef 

Add  meat  to  rapidly  boiling  unsalted  water  sufficient  to 
cover.    Reduce  heat  at  once,  cover  closely  and  cook  below 


[98]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

the  boiling  point  or  at  the  simmering  point  until  meat  is  so 
tender  it  almost  breaks  to  pieces.  Allow  about  45  minutes 
cooking  for  each  pound  of  meat.  Drain  and  serve  with  a 
horseradish  sauce.  A  very  tough,  inexpensive  piece  of 
meat  can  be  made  very  palatable  cooked  in  this  manner. 
Sliced  onions,  carrots,  etc.,  may  be  added  to  the  water  to 
impart  flavor  to  the  meat. 

Brown  Beef  Stew  with  Dumplings 

Remove  all  fat  and  gristle  from  \yi  pounds  of  beef;  cut 
into  cubes.  Dredge  meat  with  flour.  Heat  3  tablespoons 
of  fat  and  add  1  small  onion  minced  fine.  Add  meat  and 
fry  until  well  browned.  Add  3  cups  of  boiling  water  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  closely  and  cook  at 
simmering  point  about  2  hours.  Fifteen  minutes  before 
stew  is  to  be  served  add  dumplings;  cover  closely  and 
steam  12  minutes.  For  dumplings  take  1  cupful  of  sifted 
flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  about  M  cupful  of  milk.  Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add 
milk  slowly,  beating  until  smooth.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  over 
top  of  steaming  hot  stew,  cover  closely  and  steam  12 
minutes. 

Corned  Beef  or  Boiled  Dinner 

Wipe  meat  and  put  in  a  kettle.  Cover  with  cold  water 
and  bring  very  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Remove  all 
scum  and  reduce  heat  to  simmering.  Cook  until  tender;  it 
usually  takes  about  1  hour  for  each  pound  of  corned  beef. 
Prepare  cabbage,  turnips,  carrots  and  potatoes  for  boiling, 
cut  cabbage  into  eighths,  removing  all  tough  outer  leaves. 
Cut  carrots  in  halves  and  the  turnips  and  potatoes  in 
sizes  to  correspond  with  the  carrots.  Remove  the  cooked 
corn  beef  to  a  casserole  or  covered  kettle  to  keep  hot.  Take 
fat  off"  of  the  top  of  the  water  the  beef  was  cooked  in; 
bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  vegetables  and  cook  until 
tender,  allowing  about  25  minutes.  Do  not  overcook 
cabbage;  it  should  hold  its  shape.  Place  meat  on  a  hot 
platter,  surround  with  potatoes,  turnips,  and  carrots. 
Serve  cabbage  in  a  separate  dish. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [99] 

Lamb 

Breast  of  lamb,  while  rather  wasteful  in  appearance,  is 
one  of  the  most  economical  parts  of  the  animal.  It  is 
always  less  in  price  than  the  loin  or  leg,  and  can  be  used  in 
many  different  ways.  The  small,  soft  bones  add  flavor  to 
this  particular  cut,  which  is  not  the  case  in  any  other  cut 
of  lamb.  It  may  be  stuffed  and  baked  or  breaded  and 
baked,  serving  with  a  tomato  sauce  or  made  into  a  stew. 

Roasted  Breast  of  Lamb 

Remove  the  outer  skin  from  a  breast  of  lamb  and  score 
in  the  direction  of  the  rib  bones,  in  pieces  for  serving. 
Dredge  with  flour,  place  2  or  3  slices  of  salt  pork  or  bacon 
over  the  top  and  place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Turn  so 
that  all  the  surface  will  be  well  browned,  reduce  heat  and 
cook  until  tender,  basting  several  times.  Serve  with  a 
tomato  sauce. 

Lamb  Stew 

Take  2  pounds  of  breast  of  lamb  cut  in  small  pieces  for 
serving.  Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  a  golden  brown  in  hot 
drippings.  Place  in  a  covered  saucepan  or  casserole, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover  with  strained 
tomatoes.  If  one  quart  can  is  not  suflnicient,  add  boiling 
water.  Cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  under  boiling  point 
until  meat  is  tender.  Can  be  cooked  in  the  oven  or  on  top 
of  the  stove.  An  hour  before  serving  parboil  6  very  small 
onions  5  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Add  to  meat,  also  1 
cupful  of  cooked  peas,  cook  until  onions  are  tender.  Thick- 
ening should  not  be  necessary,  but  if  the  sauce  is  too  thin, 
remove  meat  and  vegetables  to  a  hot  platter  and  thicken 
the  sauce  with  flour  and  water  which  has  been  well  blended 
and  strained.    One  tablespoon  of  flour  should  be  sufficient. 

Boiled  Lamb  or  Mutton 

Remove  all  the  tough  outside  skin.  Cover  with  boiling 
water  and  let  boil  5  minutes,  simmer  until  tender,  about 
15  minutes  for  each  pound;  add  salt  and  pepper  when 
meat  is  half  cooked.  Serve  with  a  caper  sauce.  The 
liquid  remaining  should  be  allowed  to  cool,  then  remove 
all  fat.     Heat  slowly  and  simmer  until  reduced  one-third. 


[100]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Finely  chopped  onion  or  soup  vegetables  may  be  added 
aboiit  an  hour  before  serving.  Also  a  cupful  of  cooked 
pearl  barley  or  rice.     This  makes  a  very  palatable  soup. 


Breaded  Lamb  Chops 

Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth  and  trim  ofF  all  fat;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  in  fine  bread  crumbs  then  in  egg 
which  has  been  beaten  and  had  1  tablespoonful  of  cold 
water  added.  Dip  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  deep  fat  about 
8  minutes  (see  deep  fat  frying)  or  melt  3  tablespoons  of 
drippings  in  a  heavy  frying  pan  and  cook  until  crisp  on 
both  sides. 


Breaded  Veal  Cutlets 

Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth.  Place  in  a  frying  pan,  cover 
with  boiling  water  and  simmer  about  10  minutes.  Drain, 
dry,  dip  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  in  slightly  beaten  egg 
diluted  with  1  tablespoonful  of  cold  water;  dip  in  crumbs 
again  and  fry  in  deep  fat  (see  deep  fat  frying)  or  cook  in 
melted  drippings  in  a  heavy  frying  pan  until  brown  on  each 
side. 

For  cooking  veal  follow  any  of  the  recipes  for  cooking 
lamb. 

Shoulder  of  Pork 

Have  bones  removed  from  the  shoulder  of  a  young  pig. 
Make  a  dressing  by  mixing  2  cups  of  soft  bread  crumbs, 
seasoned  with  ^  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  pepper,  sage  and 
a  little  chopped  celery;  moisten  with  H  cup  of  melted 
butter  and  fill  the  space  where  the  bone  was  removed. 
Take  a  few  stitches  with  a  larding  needle  to  hold  the  dress- 
ing in  place;  dredge  the  meat  with  flour  and  place  in  a 
moderate  oven;  baste  frequently.  Peel  an  apple  for  each 
service.  For  6  apples  make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  each  of  sugar 
and  water;  cook  the  apples  in  the  syrup,  turning  often  and 
taking  care  not  to  break.  When  tender,  remove  to  a  pan, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Use  as  a 
garnish  for  the  pork. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [101] 

Baked  Ham 

Scrub  a  medium  sized  ham  and  soak  in  cold  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain,  cover  with  fresh  cold  water 
and  bring  slowly  to  the  simmering  point.  Cook  until 
tender  or  until  a  fork  will  pierce  it  easily.  Take  from 
kettle,  remove  all  skin  and  trim  off  all  undesirable  portions. 
Stick  the  fat  portion  full  of  whole  cloves  and  cover  with 
brown  sugar.     Return  to  a  moderate  oven  to  brown. 

The  ham  may  be  boiled  a  day  before  required.  It  will 
take  about  1  hour  to  reheat  in  the  oven.  A  choice  ham  will 
of  course  be  the  best,  but  the  small  picnic  hams  or  shoulders 
are  inexpensive  and  cooked  in  this  manner  will  be  found 
very  palatable. 

Tripe  and  Sweetbreads 

There  are  two  varieties  of  meat  that  are  first  made 
tender  by  long  slow  cooking  and  then  broiled.  These  are 
tripe  and  sweetbreads.  Tripe  is  usually  inexpensive 
while  sweetbreads  are  considered  a  delicacy  and  bring  a 
high  price  in  most  localities.  Tripe  may  be  purchased 
fresh  or  pickled.  It  should  be  covered  with  boiling  water 
and  slowly  simmered  until  tender;  then  it  is  ready  for  the 
various  methods  of  preparation. 

Sweetbreads  spoil  very  quickly  and  should  be  cooked  the 
day  they  are  purchased.  Soak  in  cold  water  at  least  an 
hour,  changing  the  water  several  times;  remove  skin, 
veins,  etc.,  cover  with  boiling  salted  water,  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  and  let  simmer  until  tender, 
about  30  minutes.  Drain,  cover  with  cold  water  for  10 
minutes,  then  wipe  dry  and  they  are  ready  to  use  for  the 
various  dishes. 

Broiled  Sweetbreads 

Cut  the  cooked  sweetbreads  in  halves  lengthwise  and 
brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  broil,  having  a 
moderate  heat,  about  5  minutes.  Turn  several  times 
and  baste  with  melted  butter  at  least  once.  Place  on  a 
hot  platter  spread  with  creamed  butter  to  which  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice  has  been  added. 


[102]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Broiled  Tripe 

Cut  cooked  tripe  In  pieces  for  serving.  Brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  dip  in  fine  bread  crumbs  and  set  on  a  well- 
greased  broiler.  Cook  about  6  minutes,  turning  twice. 
Spread  with  creamed  butter  seasoned  with  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

Braised  Beef  Tongue 

Use  a  fresh  tongue.  Place  in  a  deep  kettle,  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  simmer  for  about  2  hours.  Take  from 
kettle  and  remove  skin,  roots,  etc.  Place  in  a  deep  baking 
pan  and  surround  with  %  cupful  each  of  diced  carrots, 
onion  and  celery. 

Melt  3  tablespoons  of  drippings  or  butter;  add  3  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  cook  together  until  well  browned.  Add 
3  cupfuls  of  the  water  in  which  tongue  was  cooked.  Stir 
until  thick,  then  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  teaspoonful 
of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  3  tablespoons  of  finely 
chopped  sour  pickles.  Pour  sauce  over  the  tongue,  cover 
closely  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  2  hours.  Serve 
on  a  hot  platter  and  strain  the  sauce  into  a  bowl.  The 
vegetables  are  added  for  flavor  only. 

Kidney  Saute 

Split  kidneys  in  halves  and  remove  all  fat  and  tissue. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  heat  over  a  moderate  fire  to  the 
scalding  point.  Do  not  boil.  Drain  and  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Again  cover  with  cold  water  and  scald.  Drain. 
Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  or  substitute,  add  2  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  cook  until  brown.  Add  1  cup  of  water 
in  which  the  kidneys  were  scalded  or  1  cup  of  stock.  Cook 
until  somewhat  thickened,  then  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  the  kid- 
neys. Stir  until  heated  and  pour  over  slices  of  oast  cut 
in  triangles. 

If  kidneys  are  cooked  rapidly,  they  become  very  tough. 
Cooked  a  very  short  time  they  will  be  tender,  or  they  may 
be  cooked  a  very  long  time  and  then  will  be  satisfactory. 
They  first  become  tough,  but  the  long  slow  cooking 
makes  then  tender  again. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [103] 

Bacon 

Have  bacon  cut  In  very  thin  slices  and  lay  on  the  wires 
of  a  toaster  or  double  broiler.  This  will  keep  each  piece 
flat.  Set  over  a  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook  until 
browned  and  crisp.  Serve  at  once.  The  bacon  may  be 
fried  in  a  frying  pan.  Turn  often  and  have  only  a  moderate 
heat. 

Liver  and  Bacon 

Pour  boiling  water  over  slices  of  calves  liver  and  let 
stand  about  5  minutes.  Drain  and  dry  each  slice  and  dip 
in  flour.  Heat  4  tablespoons  of  bacon  fat  and  fry  the 
liver  until  brown  on  each  side.  Have  only  a  moderate 
heat.  If  cooked  too  fast  or  too  long,  liver  will  be  tough  and 
tasteless. 

Broiled  or  Fried  Ham 

Cover  ham  slices  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  10 
minutes.  Drain,  dry  and  pan  broil  or  cook  in  the  broiler 
until  a  delicate  brown.  Have  only  a  moderate  heat. 
Cooked  too  fast  and  too  long  ham  is  hard  and  tough. 


[104]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Selecting  and  Preparing  Poultry  and  Game 

The  proper  selection  of  poultry  is  not  an  easy  task.  It  re- 
quires experience,  and  usually  it  is  necessary  to  depend 
somewhat  upon  the  judgment  and  honesty  of  the  dealer. 
In  making  a  selection,  see  that  the  flesh  is  firm  and  that 
there  is  a  fair  amount  of  fat  underneath  the  skin.  The  fat 
should  be  a  yellow  color.  An  overfat  bird  is  not  economical 
and,  owing  to  the  flesh  being  greasy,  it  is  less  digestible  and 
delicate  in  flavor. 

When  fresh  and  in  good  condition,  the  skin  of  a  turkey 
should  look  clear  and  unwrinkled.  When  young,  all 
poultry  should  have  a  flexible  breast  bone,  smooth,  pliable 
legs  and  soft  feet.  If  the  spurs  are  large,  the  legs  hard, 
feet  scaly,  breastbone  rigid  and  with  long  hairs, the  bird 
is  no  longer  young. 

The  question  of  age  and  toughness  aff'ect  its  palatability 
rather  than  the  nutritive  value.  In  fact,  a  tough  old  bird 
may  be  steamed  or  fricasseed  and  be  found  very  delicious. 

Be  careful  to  note  that  poultry  is  free  from  all  dis- 
coloration and  that  the  eyes  are  clear.  Long,  thin, 
purplish  necks  also  denote  age.  Chickens  and  fowl  have 
certain  characteristics  which  make  them  easily  distin- 
guishable. Chickens  have  soft  feet,  flexible  breast  bone, 
many  pin  feathers  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  fat;  fowls 
have  hard  and  scaly  feet,  a  rigid  breast  bone,  long  hairs  and 
a  large  amount  of  fat. 

When  a  chicken  is  to  be  fried  or  roasted,  the  question  of 
tenderness  is  of  great  importance.  The  size  of  a  chicken 
usually  indicates  its  age.  The  broiler  will  be  small  and 
more  tender  than  the  frying  chicken,  and  the  frying 
chicken  smaller  and  more  tender  than  the  one  for  roasting. 
The  more  flexible  the  breast  bone  the  more  tender  the  bird. 

Young  tame  ducks  have  yellow  feet  and  bills.  As  they 
become  older  these  turn  darker  and  become  red.  The  wild 
duck  has  small  reddish  feet,  either  young  or  old.  The  legs  of 
a  young  bird  will  be  smooth  and  the  webbing  of  the  feet 
soft. 

The  legs  of  geese  should  be  pliable  and  yellow  and  the 
webbing  of  the  feet  soft.    The  bill  also  should  be  pliable, 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [105] 

the  breast  plump  and  the  skin  smooth.  Geese  should  always 
be  eaten  young. 

If  the  birds  have  not  been  dressed  by  the  market  man,  it 
will  be  necessary  to  attend  to  these  details.  If  freshly 
killed,  a  turkey  should  be  kept  for  at  least  3  or  4  days 
before  cooking,  or  the  flesh  will  not  be  white  and  tender. 
It  should  not  be  dressed  until  it  is  to  be  prepared  for 
cooking. 

When  dressing  poultry,  first  of  all  remove  all  pin 
feathers.  This  may  be  easily  accomplished  with  a  pair 
of  broad  tweezers.  Then  carefully  singe  the  bird,  turning 
constantly  so  that  it  will  be  thoroughly  singed  in  every 
part.  Remove  the  head,  then  crop  attached  to  the  gullet, 
and  the  windpipe  may  be  drawn  out  of  the  neck  opening. 
It  is  usually  not  necessary  to  make  a  slit  in  the  neck,  and 
this  should  be  avoided,  as  the  bird  will  make  a  much  better 
appearance  if  it  is  to  be  roasted.  Cut  off  about  2  inches 
of  the  neck,  so  that  the  skin  may  be  folded  back. 

The  neck  trimmings  should  be  saved  for  making  stock 
for  gravy  or  soup.  The  tendons  should  be  removed  from 
the  legs,  for  when  cooked  they  form  a  disagreeable  hard 
substance.  To  remove,  carefully  make  an  inch  slit  length- 
wise through  the  skin  below  the  knee  joint  and  at  one  side; 
on  laying  open  the  skin,  the  tendons,  white,  shiny  cords, 
will  be  seen.  Slip  a  skewer  or  large  nail  under  each  one 
and  pull  them  out.  If  the  bird  is  old  this  will  be  found  a 
little  hard  to  do. 

Never  allow  the  tradesman  to  cut  off  the  legs  of  poultry, 
for  then  the  tendons  cannot  be  removed. 

When  tendons  have  been  removed  cut  off  the  feet.  Make 
a  2-inch  incision  near  the  vent,  insert  two  fingers  and  care- 
fully loosen  the  entrails.  When  all  are  loose,  grasp  the 
hardest  subtance,  the  gizzard,  and  pull  it  out.  Every- 
thing else  will  come  with  it,  but  be  careful  not  to  press  any- 
thing; then  there  will  be  no  danger  of  breaking  the  gall 
bladder.  Insert  the  hand  and  remove  the  spongy  sub- 
stances which  lie  under  the  breast  in  cavities;  the  kidneys 
will  be  found  in  similar  cavities  down  the  backbone. 

Let  cold  water  run  through  the  bird  until  it  is  thoroughly 
cleaned;  then  dry  thoroughly  and  stuff  at  once. 

In  cutting  a  bird  for  a  fricassee,  have  sharp  knives.    Cut 


[106]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

off  the  legs  at  the  first  joint,  then  separate  at  the  second 
one.  This  is  easily  done  if  the  legs  are  bent.  Cut  off  wings 
and  disjoint  them.  Separate  breast  bone  from  the  back, 
divide  back  in  4  pieces,  slit  down  the  breast,  cutting  it  in 
two.    Each  of  these  pieces  may  be  cut  in  halves. 

To  stuff  and  truss  poultry  for  roasting,  first  put  a  little 
stuffing  in  the  neck  and  fill  in  where  the  crop  has  been  re- 
moved. Fold  over  the  skin  of  the  neck  to  the  back  and 
fasten  with  a  small  skewer  or  sew  in  place  with  a  trussing 
needle.  Then  stuff  the  bird  ^4  full  through  the  incision 
made  in  drawing.  Tuck  the  tail  into  the  opening  and  sew 
firmly  into  place.  Now  remove  the  oil  bag  by  cutting 
around  it  with  a  sharp  knife. 

If  too  much  stuffing  is  used  there  will  be  no  allowance 
for  swelling  and  it  might  burst  through. 

Pinion  the  wing  close  to  the  side  and  run  a  skewer 
through  each  side  or  a  threaded  trussing  needle  through 
the  wing  and  bird  to  the  other  wing.  Take  a  stitch  to  hold 
firmly  and  then  run  needle  back  through  the  bird  again 
and  tie  the  thread  so  it  may  easily  be  removed.  This  will 
hold  the  wings  in  place.  Fasten  the  legs  in  the  same 
manner. 

To  prepare  the  giblets  wash  the  heart  and  cut  it  in  two 
lengthwise.  The  gall  bladder  is  a  little  green  sack  attached 
to  the  liver.  Great  care  should  be  taken  not  to  break  it, 
as  it  contains  a  very  bitter  substance.  Cut  through  the 
thick  part  of  the  gizzard,  empty  it  and  pull  out  the  tough 
inside  skin.  Put  the  giblets  and  trimmings  from  the  neck 
in  a  quart  of  boiling  water.  Cook  until  tender;  then  chop 
giblets  fine,  strain  the  stock  and  use  for  a  sauce  or  gravy, 
adding  the  chopped  giblets. 

To  cut  chicken  for  stewing  or  frying;  After  dressing 
remove  tendons,  pin  feathers  and  the  oil  bag.  Cut  through 
the  flesh  at  the  thigh,  bend  back  legs  and  cut  off.  Separate 
second  joint  and  drum  stick.  Remove  wings  and  cut  off 
the  tips.  Cut  through  the  ribs  to  separate  back  from 
breast.     Cut  breast  in  two  with  a  heavy  knife  or  cleaver. 

Roast  Turkey 

Dress,  stuff  and  truss  a  10  to  12  pound  turkey.  Mix 
M  cup  of  butter  or  butter  substitute  with  ^  cup  of  flour, 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [107] 

cream  well  and  rub  the  entire  surface  of  the  turkey  with 
the  mixture.  Place  in  a  large  roasting  pan  and  put  into 
a  hot  oven.  When  the  surface  of  the  turkey  begins  to 
turn  a  delicate  brown,  reduce  to  a  moderate  heat.  Baste 
every  15  or  20  minutes.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  butter  to  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  and  use  for  basting.  Allow  about 
30  minutes'  cooking  for  every  pound  of  turkey.  However, 
the  time  will  depend  largely  upon  the  age  of  the  bird.  Old 
turkeys  take  long,  slow  cooking. 

Braised  Turkey 

This  method  is  suitable  for  an  older,  somewhat  tough 
turkey.  Prepare  the  bird  as  for  roasting  and  with  any 
desired  dressing.  Place  several  tablespoons  of  beef 
drippings  or  salt  pork  fat  in  the  pan  and  allow  it  to  melt. 
Then  add  a  layer  of  the  following  vegetables  cut  in  dice: 
Carrots,  celery,  onions,  turnips  and,  if  liked,  one  cup  of 
tomato  puree.  Place  the  turkey  on  the  vegetables  and  add 
enough  stock  or  hot  water  to  cover  the  vegetables  only. 
Cover  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  bird  is  tender. 
The  time  required  will  depend  on  the  size  and  age  of  the 
fowl.  Turn  at  least  twice  during  the  cooking.  When 
cooked  remove  cover,  dredge  with  flour  and  brown. 
Strain  the  stock,  thicken  and  serve  as  a  sauce. 

Roast  Chicken 

Singe,  dress,  wash  and  dry  a  young  chicken.  Prepare  a 
celery  dressing  of  2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs,  yi  cup  melted 
butter,  Yz  cup  diced  celery,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yz  teaspoon- 
ful  pepper  and  yi  teaspoonful  powdered  sage.  Stuff 
chicken,  truss  and  rub  over  with  olive  oil  or  melted  butter, 
dredge  with  flour  and  let  roast  until  tender  in  a  moderate 
oven,  basting  every  15  minutes.  Add  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  to  a  cupful  of  hot  water  for  basting.  Serve  with 
giblet  sauce.  As  roast  chicken  is  apt  to  be  somewhat  dry, 
it  should  be  basted  often  or  cooked  in  a  double  roaster. 

Chicken  Fricassee 

Cut  through  the  flesh  of  the  chicken  at  the  thigh;  bend 
back  legs  and  cut  off.     Separate  second  joint  and  drum- 


[108]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

stick.  Remove  wings  and  cut  off  tips.  Cut  through  the 
ribs  to  separate  back  from  breast.  Cut  back  into  3  pieces 
and  breast  in  2  parts.  Roll  each  piece  of  chicken  in  flour, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  brown  in  melted  chicken  fat  or  salt 
pork.  When  each  piece  is  a  delicate  brown  remove  to  a 
sauce  pan,  add  1  cup  of  water  to  the  pan  and  cook  5  min- 
utes. Pour  over  chicken  with  enough  more  boiling  water 
to  cover.  Cook,  closely  covered,  at  the  simmering  point 
until  chicken  is  tender.  Remove  chicken  from  kettle  with 
a  skimmer.  Remove  fat  from  liquid  and  add  1  cup  of  rich 
milk  (more  if  needed).  Allow  13^  tablespoons  of  flour  for 
each  cupful  of  liquid.  Mix  to  a  smooth  paste  with  cold 
water,  strain  and  add  to  stock  and  cook  until  thickened. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  chicken  and 
serve  with  hot  biscuits  or  dumplings. 

Chicken  Casserole 

Cut  up  chicken  as  for  fricassee.  Roll  each  piece  in  flour, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  casserole  and  just 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Cook  in  a  slow  oven  until 
chicken  is  tender.  Add  1  cup  of  rich  milk  or  thin  cream, 
thicken  slightly  and  serve.  For  thickening  allow  1^ 
tablespoons  of  flour  for  each  cup  of  liquid. 

Chicken  Pie 

Cut  chicken  as  for  fricassee.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper 
and  roll  in  flour.  Fry  until  a  golden  brown,  then  cover 
with  boiling  water  or  stock,  and  gently  simmer  until 
tender.  Remove  chicken  to  a  baking  dish,  remove  fat 
from  stock,  thicken,  allowing  lyi  tablespoons  of  flour 
for  each  cupful  of  liquid.  Cover  chicken  with  gravy  and 
place  a  flaky  pastry  on  top.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  The 
chicken  may  be  prepared  a  day  in  advance  and  set  away 
in  a  cool  place  until  required.  If  preferred  all  bones  may 
be  removed  after  chicken  is  cooked,  then  add  to  gravy  and 
place  on  pastry. 

Stewed  Chicken 

Cut  chicken  up  and  cover  the  pieces  with  boiling  water. 
Simmer  until  tender,  adding  salt  when  half  cooked.  Re- 
move chicken  to  a  hot  platter  and  thicken  the  liquid, 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [109] 

allowing  1^2  tablespoons  of  flour  for  each  cup  of  stock. 
Mix  to  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  water  and  strain.  Cook 
10  minutes.  Pour  over  chicken  or  return  chicken  to 
kettle  and  make  drop  dumplings. 

Oven  Cooked  Young  Chicken 

Split  young  frying  chicken  or  broilers.  Dredge  with 
flour.  Place  in  a  baking  pan  and  dot  with  butter  or 
strips  of  salt  pork.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  a  golden 
brown. 

Fried  Chicken 

Unless  very  young  and  tender,  chicken  should  first  be 
stewed  before  frying.  Drain  and  dry  then  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  dip  each  piece  in  flour,  then  in  slightly  beaten  egg 
diluted  with  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water;  dip  in  flour  again 
and  fry  in  hot  chicken  fat,  salt  pork  or  butter. 

Chicken  Maryland 

Prepare  chicken  as  for  fried  chicken.  When  chicken  is 
cooked  remove  to  a  hot  platter.  Make  a  sauce  of  3  table- 
spoons of  butter  melted  in  the  pan  the  chicken  was  cooked 
in.  Add  3  tablespoons  of  flour.  Mix  until  blended  but  not 
brown,  add  2  cupfuls  of  rich  milk  or  chicken  stock;  stir 
until  creamy.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour 
around  the  chicken  or  serve  in  a  separate  bowl.  Garnish 
with  strips  of  bacon  and  corn  fritters. 

Chicken  Paprika 

Fry  chicken  and  surround  with  paprika  sauce.  Garnish 
with  toast  points. 

Roast  Duck 

Dress  in  the  same  manner  as  for  chicken,  wash  well  with 
salted  water.  Truss  into  shape  with  a  larding  needle  or 
skewers. 

Place  several  stalks  of  celery  inside  the  bird  and  set  in  a 
very  hot  oven.  The  time  required  for  cooking  is  18 
minutes  if  liked  rare  to  40  minutes  if  desired  well  done. 
There  is  a  difi^erence  of  opinion  as  to  whether  ducks  should 
be  salted  before  or  after  cooking.  It  is  really  a  matter  of 
taste. 


[110]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Celery  Dressing 

2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs.  1  cup  chopped  celery. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  M  cup  melted  butter 
Yi  teaspoon  groimd  sage.  or  substitute. 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice. 

Mix  in  order  named. 

Chestnut  Dressing 

3  cups  chestnuts.  Salt  and  pepper. 

XYi  cups  dry  bread  criunbs.  M  cup  melted  butter  or 

1  cup  finely  choped  celery.  substitute. 

Cook  chestnuts  in  salted  water  to  cover  until  shells  may 
be  removed.    Mash,  add  remaining  ingredients. 

Oyster  Stuffing 

V/2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs.  1  tablespoon  salt. 

y^  cup  butter  or  substitute  Y^  teaspoon  pepper, 

melted.  2  cups  oysters. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  yi  cup  oysters  liquid. 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

Put  crumbs  in  a  bowl,  add  butter,  parsley,  salt,  pepper, 
lemon,  oysters,  cut  in  halves,  add  oyster  liquid.  Mix  well 
before  placing  in  fowl. 

Plain  Bread  Stuffing 

2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs.  H  teaspoon  ground  sage. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  2  teaspoons  grated  onion. 

Y%  teaspoon  pepper.  Enough  melted  butter  to  mois- 

Y2  teaspoon  groimd  thyme.  ten. 


Prune  Dressing 

(For  Roast  Goose.) 

2  cups  prunes  (cooked).  Y2  cup  melted  butter. 

Yi  cup  rice.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

6  large  chestnuts.  J/8  teaspoon  pepper. 

Cook  rice  until  tender  and  dry  in  2  cups  of  boiling  water 
and  juice  from  prunes.  Add  prunes  (stoned  and  cut  in 
quarters),  chestnuts  (blanched  and  chopped),  butter,  salt 
and  pepper.    Mix  well. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [111] 

Giblet  Sauce 

Pour  off  liquid  in  pan  in  which  turkey  or  chicken  was 
roasted.  From  this  liquid  skim  5  tablespoons  of  fat;  return 
fat  to  roasting  pan  and  add  5  tablespoons  of  flour,  stirring 
until  smooth  and  brown;  gradually  add  3  cups  of  stock  in 
which  giblets  were  cooked.  Stir  until  thick,  season  and 
add  the  giblets  finely  chopped. 


CHAPTER  SIX 

SOUFFLES 
TIMBALES 
MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 
CHEESE  DISHES 
USE  OF  LEFT-OVERS 
TWICE  COOKED  MEATS 
DEEP  FAT  FRYING 
CROQUETTES 


1141  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 


Souffles 


SOUFFLE  is  in  reality  a  baked  omelet  in  which  the 
eggs  have  been  beaten  separately.  The  air  which 
has  been  incorporated  into  the  egg  whites  causes 
the  mixture  to  pufF  up.  The  general  impression 
that  they  are  difficult  to  make  gives  this  dish  a  certain  dis- 
tinction. However,  there  is  no  reason  why  anyone  should 
not  be  able  to  make  a  perfect  souffle  if  the  oven  is  carefully 
managed. 

Souffles  should  go  directly  from  the  oven  to  the  table, 
and  it  is  a  wise  precaution  to  cover  the  souffle  while  carry- 
ing it  to  the  table  so  that  the  cooler  air  of  the  room  will  not 
make  it  fall.  The  plain  omelet  souffle  is  the  most  difficult 
to  make.  Those  made  with  a  cooked  foundation  (a  thick 
white  sauce)  do  not  fall  so  readily.  The  whites  of  eggs 
must  be  beaten  until  filled  with  air  and  should  be  folded  in- 
to the  mixture,  not  stirred  or  beaten.  The  souffle  is  then 
placed  in  a  moderate  oven,  where  the  heated  air  expands 
and  puffs  up  the  whole  mixture.  The  baking  is  con- 
tinued until  the  air  cells  are  hardened  enough  to  support 
its  weight  and  the  souffle  must  be  served  at  once  before 
the  enclosed  air  cools,  which  causes  the  souffle  to  collapse. 

When  sufficiently  baked  the  souffle  will  feel  dry  and  firm, 
like  a  sponge  cake.  Deep  ring  molds  are  very  attractive 
for  vegetable  souffles.  They  may  then  be  turned  out 
on  a  serving  dish  and  the  center  filled  with  creamed  fish, 
sweetbreads,  mushrooms  or  chicken.  The  vegetables  are 
always  previously  cooked  and  either  mashed  or  put  through 
a  puree  strainer. 

Souffles  may  be  divided  into  two  classes,  savory  and 
sweet  souffles.  The  savory  souffle  offers  a  variety  of 
luncheon  and  dinner  dishes  in  which  many  left-overs  can 
be  utilized.  The  savory  souffles  can  be  made  entirely  of 
eggs  and  vegetables  or  may  have  a  thick  white  sauce  as  a 
foundation,  making  them  much  more  substantial  and  also 
easier  to  bake.  The  fruit  souffles  are  made  of  eggs  and 
fruit  pulp. 

All  souffles,  whether  sweet  or  savory,  should  be  served 
with  a  sauce  of  some  kind.    When  mixtures  contain  a  num- 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [115] 

ber  of  eggs  beaten  separately,  they  are  usually  dry,  and 
need  a  sauce  to  furnish  moisture. 

Bake  souffles  in  an  ungreased  dish  (except  when  using  a 
ring  mold  where  it  is  removed  from  the  pan),  set  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water,  keeping  water  below  the  boiling  point.  Serve 
from  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

Timbales  offer  a  very  satisfactory  way  to  use  small 
quantities  of  cooked  food.  They  are  really  a  savory  cus- 
tard. Timbales  are  cooked  by  poaching  and  are  unmolded 
before  serving. 

Spinach  Souffle  or  Ring 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  or  sub-  3^   cup   grated   or  finely   cut 

stitute.  cheese. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  J/^  teaspoon  salt. 

3^^  cup  milk.  }/$  teaspoon  paprika. 

1  cup  finely  chopped  spinach,  or  Few  grains  of  nutmeg  or  mace. 

spinach  puree.  3  eggs  separated. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth,  and  cook 
until  frothy;  then  add  cold  milk,  stir  constantly,  until 
quite  thick;  add  cheese,  spinach,  beaten  yolks  and  season- 
ings; fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  pour  into  a  baking 
dish,  set  dish  in  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  30  minutes. 

Very  attractive  if  baked  in  a  ring  mold  and  the  center 
filled  with  creamed  sweetbreads,  shellfish,  or  chicken.  If 
the  souffle  is  to  be  unmolded  it  must  be  baked  in  a  buttered 
form.  Before  unmolding  let  stand  a  few  seconds  after 
removing  from  the  oven.  To  test  run  a  sharp  knife  through 
the  center.  If  it  comes  out  clean,  the  souffle  is  cooked.  If 
not  cooked  sufficiently,  the  souffle  will  fall.  Any  vegetable 
may  replace  the  spinach. 

Ham,  Chicken  or  Fish  Souffle 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  or  sub-       }4  teaspoon  salt. 

stitute.  3^  green  pepper  finely  chopped 

2  tablespoons  flour.  (may  be  omitted). 

1  cup  milk.  3  eggs  separated. 

}/2  cup  soft  bread  crumbs. 
1  cup  finely  chopped  ham  or 

chicken  or  flaked  fish. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  mix  well  and  cook  until  frothy, 
then  add  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  thickened.    Add 


[116]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

bread  crumbs,  ham,  seasonings  and  well-beaten  egg  yolks. 
Remove  from  fire  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
eggs.  Pile  in  a  baking  dish,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  30  minutes.  Cooked  vege- 
tables, such  as  peas  or  asparagus  tips,  may  also  be  added  to 
these  souffles.  In  that  case  put  a  layer  of  the  souffle 
in  the  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the  vegetable,  then 
souffle  until  all  is  used.  Serve  with  a  suitable  sauce.  This 
type  of  souffle  may  also  be  baked  in  a  ring,  mold  and  the 
center  filled  with  creamed  vegetables.  These  combina- 
tion dishes  are  very  attractive  for  guest  luncheons. 

Potato  Souffle 

2  cups    well    seasoned    hot       1  teaspoon  parsley, 
mashed  potatoes.  Few  grains  mace  or  nutmeg. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  3^  cup  of  grated  cheese. 

3  eggs  separated. 

Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  mashed  potatoes, 
seasonings  and  well  beaten  yolks;  beat  all  together,  then 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  a  rather  quick 
oven.  Cheese  may  be  omitted.  This  souffle  is  not  so 
delicate,  so  can  be  baked  without  the  hot  water. 

Asparagus  Souffle 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  cup  asparagus  puree. 
2  tablespoons  flour.  3^  cup  asparagus  tips. 
Yi  teaspoon  salt.  \^  cup  grated  cheese. 
3/2  cup  of  milk.  3  eggs  separated. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth,  then  cook 
until  frothy,  add  milk  and  asparagus  puree.  Cook  until 
thick,  then  add  beaten  egg  yolks  and  cheese.  Fold  in  the 
asparagus  tips,  and  the  whites  of  the  stiffly  beaten  eggs. 
Pour  into  a  baking  dish  or  individual  molds,  set  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm. 

Carrot  Ring 

One  cup  cooked  carrots  rubbed  through  a  coarse  sieve; 
yz  cup  thick  white  sauce;  3  eggs,  beaten  separately;  ^ 
teaspoon  salt;  }/^  teaspoon  pepper. 

Combine  carrots  and  white  sauce;  add  seasonings.    Beat 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [117] 

eggs  separately;  add  yolks,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites.  Pour  into  a  buttered  ring  mold;  stand  in  pan 
of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm.  Re- 
move from  pan  of  hot  water  and  let  stand  two  or  three 
minutes,  then  turn  out  on  a  serving  platter.  Fill  the 
center  with  creamed  veal,  fish  or  chicken.  Any  vegetable 
pulp  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner,  adding  seasoning 
suitable  to  the  particular  vegetable. 

Thick  White  Sauce 

Yi  cup  milk.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  J^  teaspoon  salt, 

substitute. 

Melt  butter,  remove  from  fire,  add  flour  and  stir  until 
well  blended.  Set  over  fire,  cook  until  frothy,  then  add  cold 
milk  and  stir  constantly  until  very  thick.  Add  salt. 
Foundation  sauce  for  souffles. 

Savory  Timbales 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  cup  milk. 

\i  cup  bread  cnxmbs.  1  egg. 

i   cup   chopped  meat  or  fish       Salt  and  pepper. 

(veal,  chicken,  ham).  1  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion. 

Melt  butter,  add  bread  crumbs  and  milk,  cook  about  5 
minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  chopped  meat  and  egg, 
beaten  slightly;  season  and  turn  into  well-greased  custard 
cups  or  muffin  pans;  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  20  minutes  or  until  firm  in  the  center. 
Do  not  allow  the  water  to  boil. 

After  removing  from  the  oven  let  stand  a  few  seconds 
before  turning  from  the  molds.  Serve  with  a  sauce  suitable 
for  the  kind  of  meat  used.  DiflTerent  seasonings,  such  as 
chopped  olives,  pimentoes  or  mushrooms,  may  be  added. 
Combinations  of  meat  and  vegetables  also  can  be  used. 

Vegetable  Timbales 

Follow  the  recipe  for  savory  timbales,  using  1  cupful  of 
mashed  pureed  vegetables. 


[118]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Meat  Substitutes 

The  meat  course  can  easily  be  dispensed  with  by  making 
attractive  vegetable,  egg  or  cheese  dishes.  Most  doctors 
and  dietitians  claim  that  the  average  American  family 
eat  more  meat  than  is  required,  so  why  not  plan  to  have  at 
least  one  dinner  a  week  meatless?  It  will  usually  be  found 
less  expensive  and  the  household  would  be  benefited  also. 

Of  course,  the  family  must  be  supplied  with  food  fully 
as  valuable  to  the  diet  as  meat,  and  in  order  to  accomplish 
this  the  housewife  must  understand  a  few  fundamental 
principles  governing  the  proper  selection  and  combinations 
of  food. 

The  average  housekeeper  will  hold  up  her  hands  in 
despair  when  food  values  are  suggested,  and  to  many  the 
subject  seems  too  scientific  to  grasp,  and  in  a  measure  this 
is  true.  However,  the  following  guide  is  not  at  all  compli- 
cated, and  the  progressive  housewife  of  today  will  do  much 
better  when  planning  meals,  meatless  or  otherwise,  if  she 
thoroughly  understands  these  principles. 

The  body  needs  material  to  build  up  and  repair  the  wear 
and  tear  caused  by  activity,  also  fuel  to  burn,  making  ac- 
tivity possible. 

Protein  is  a  distinct  repairing  or  tissue  building  material, 
and  is  found  in  quantities  in  meat,  fish,  eggs,  cheese,  milk 
and  nuts. 

Carbohydrates  (sugar  and  starches)  and  the  fats  furnish 
the  fuel  for  activity,  and  include  sugar,  molasses,  honey, 
ripe  and  dried  fruits,  starchy  vegetables,  and  cereals. 

Foods  rich  in  both  protein  and  carbohydrates  are  peas, 
beans,  lentils,  oatmeal  and  wheat  products;  this  includes 
all  breads. 

The  body  also  requires  mineral  salts,  which  are  supplied 
mainly  in  the  various  green  and  dried  vegetables,  fresh  and 
dried  fruits.  Bulk  or  quantity  is  furnished  also  in  the  last 
named  foods. 

This,  of  course,  only  touches  very  briefly  on  the  subject 
of  food  values,  but  a  comprehensive  understanding  of  just 
these  few  principles  will  prove  helpful  when  planning  meals, 
and  a  properly  balanced  meal  need  not  be  a  complicated, 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [119] 

difficult  one  to  prepare,  but  may  be  of  the  greatest  simplic- 
ity or  may  offer  as  great  a  variety  as  desired,  provided  they 
contain  the  proper  combination  of  foods;  in  other  words, 
some  protein,  some  carbohydrates  and  fat,  some  mineral 
salts  and  the  necessary  bulk. 

The  list  of  meat  substitutes  is  a  long  and  varied  one.  Eggs 
are  fully  as  valuable  as  meat  in  both  food  value  and  digesti- 
bility. 

Beans  or  lentils  may  take  the  place  of  meat.  Boston 
baked  beans,  if  properly  prepared,  are  usually  popular- 
Stuffed  peppers  or  tomatoes  make  satisfactory  luncheon  or 
supper  dishes. 

The  possibilities  of  cheese  combined  with  other  food 
materials  are  numerous  and  these  combinations  may  be 
served  in  place  of  meat.  Cheese  has  twice  the  food  value 
of  meat;  there  is  comparatively  no  waste,  and  it  has  the 
advantage  of  keeping  qualities  and  requires  very  little 
preliminary  preparation.  Even  with  the  prevailing  high 
prices,  cheese  will  be  found  economical  when  compared 
with  other  foods  of  equal  nutritive  value.  The  different 
varieties  of  cheese  are  used  chiefly  for  their  flavor,  and  used 
in  such  small  quantities,  have  very  little  value  in  the  diet 
other  than  to  make  the  meal  attractive  and  palatable. 
Cream  or  soft  cheese  is  usually  served  in  this  manner  and 
is  more  easily  digested  than  hard  cheese. 

One  reason,  perhaps,  why  cheese  is  not  more  commonly 
used  as  a  meat  substitute  is  due  to  the  fact  that  because  of 
its  concentration  it  is  not  easily  digested.  This,  however, 
may  be  largely  overcome  by  grating  or  cutting  into  small 
bits  then  melted  with  milk,  or  in  combination  with  other 
ingredients.  A  very  small  quantity  of  baking  soda  is  an 
aid  in  making  cheese  soluble. 

Cheese  can  be  overcooked;  it  is  hardened  by  high  heat 
and  care  should  be  taken  that  the  food  materials  combined 
with  cheese  be  thoroughly  cooked  before  the  combination 
is  made.  If  merely  melted,  cheese  is  probably  as  digestible, 
if  used  moderately,  as  many  cooked  meats;  but  when  it  has 
been  overheated  in  cooking  it  usually  contains  burned  fats. 
This  causes  indigestion,  and  the  blame  should  not  be  laid  to 
the  composition  of  the  food  but  to  careless  cooking. 

In  planning  menus  of  which  cheese  forms  the  main  dish, 


[120]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

supply  crisp  vegetables,  such  as  lettuce,  celery,  fruit 
salads,  and  for  desserts  something  light,  either  fresh  or 
cooked  fruits  or  gelatin,  plain  cookies  or  fruit  shortcakes. 
If  cheese  is  used  in  quantity  it  is  necessary  to  diminish 
other  protein  and  fat  foods  in  order  that  the  meal  may  not 
be  too  hearty.  Vegetables  and  soups  may  be  cooked  with 
cheese,  and  in  such  dishes  the  cheese  is  added  for  both 
nutritive  value  and  flavor. 

The  housewife  whose  family  is  fond  of  cheese  can  find 
an  almost  unlimited  variety  of  combinations.  To  keep 
cheese  free  from  mold,  wrap  in  a  slightly  damp  cloth  and 
keep  cool. 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

2  cups  small  white  beans.  2  tablespoons  molasses. 

}4.  pound  fat  salt  pork.  3^  teaspoon  dry  mustard. 

2  teaspoons  salt.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

Pick  over  beans,  wash  well,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  heat  slowly,  keeping  water  below  boiling  point, 
and  cook  until  the  skins  will  burst.  This  may  be  deter- 
mined by  taking  a  few  beans  on  a  spoon  and  blowing  on 
them.  The  skins  will  burst  if  beans  are  sufficiently  cooked. 
Drain  again,  cut  salt  pork  in  two  pieces,  placing  one  piece 
in  the  bottom  of  the  bean  pot.  Put  beans  in  pot,  place  the 
other  piece  of  pork  on  top  of  beans.  Add  seasoning  to  the 
boiling  water  and  pour  over  beans,  adding  enough  more 
boiling  water  to  cover.  Place  the  cover  on  bean  pot  and 
bake  slowly  about  6  hours.  Add  more  boiling  water  as 
needed  and  uncover  beans  during  last  hour  of  baking.  An 
earthenware  bean  pot  produces  the  best  results. 

Pink  Beans,  Spanish 

2  cups  beans.  2  pimentos. 

1  onion.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

1   cup   strained  tomato  or  1       1  teaspoon  salt, 
can  chili  tomato  sauce. 

Wash  and  soak  beans  over  night.  Drain,  cover  with 
fresh  boiling  water  and  cook  under  boiling  point  for  half 
an  hour.  Drain  again,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water  and 
cook  gently  until  tender,  or  about  1  hour.  Do  not  allow  to 
reach  boiling  point.     Chop  the  onion  and  pimentos,  and 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [121] 

cook  in  the  butter  until  the  onion  is  soft,  but  not  brown; 
then  add  seasoning  and  tomato.  Drain  beans,  pour  over 
the  sauce  and  simmer  for  about  30  minutes.  Serve  with 
boiled  rice  or  hominy.  If  using  chili  tomato  sauce  the 
pimentos  may  be  omitted,  and  if  desired  highly  seasoned. 
Use  4  or  5  tiny  dried  red  peppers  or  a  few  drops  of  pepper 
sauce. 

Rissotto  No.  1 

1  cup  rice.  1  sweet  green  pepper. 

1  cup  grated  cheese.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

i°cip°*  strained   tomatoes    or       1  tablespoon  shortening, 
tomato  sauce. 

Wash  rice  well  and  add  slowly  4  cups  of  rapidly  boiling 
water;  boil  5  minutes,  drain  well  and  add  to  4  cups  fresh 
boiling  water.  Cook  rice  until  tender,  drain  and  dry  in  a 
moderate  oven.  While  rice  is  cooking  melt  shortening, 
add  chopped  onion  and  pepper,  and  cook  until  heated 
through;  then  add  tomatoes.  Have  a  well-greased  baking 
dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  rice,  then  sprinkle  with  cheese, 
and  add  a  layer  of  the  tomato  mixture.  Repeat,  having  the 
last  layer  cheese.  Cover  the  baking  dish  and  place  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Rissotto  No.  2 

Wash  rice  well  and  drain  until  very  dry.  Heat  2  table- 
spoons olive  oil  in  a  heavy  frying  pan;  add  rice  and  cook, 
stirring  constantly  until  rice  is  somewhat  golden  in  color. 
Cover  with  tomato  sauce,  add  chopped  onion  and  green 
pepper,  and  cook  over  a  very  low  fire  until  rice  is  tender. 
Turn  onto  a  serving  dish  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 
Serve  at  once. 

Cheese  Croquettes 

2  cups  any  cooked  cereal.  1  teaspoon  mustard. 
1  egg  yolk.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

1  cup  Eastern  cheese  (grated). 
1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 
sauce. 

Mix  well  and  cook  10  minutes,  cool  thoroughly  and 
form  into  croquettes.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water  to 
white  of  egg  and  beat  slightly.    Roll  croquettes  in  bread- 


[122]  •  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

crumbs,  then  in  egg  mixture,  then  crumbs  again.  Fry 
until  brown  in  deep  fat.  To  test  fat  for  frying  drop  a  cube 
of  dry  bread  into  fat  and  count  forty.  If  bread  is  a  golden 
brown  by  then,  fat  is  ready  to  use  for  croquettes.  Fry 
until  brown,  drain  on  paper.  Serve  with  a  tomato  sauce. 
Green  peppers  may  be  stuffed  with  this  mixture  and  baked. 


Poached  Eggs  with  Cheese  Sauce 

Prepare  medium  white  sauce  allowing  one  cup  of  sauce  to 
four  persons.  Add  one-half  cup  of  grated  cheese  to  sauce 
while  hot.  Toast  rounds  of  bread  on  both  sides;  dip  the 
edges  in  hot  salted  water  and  spread  with  butter.  Set  a 
poached  egg  on  each  slice  of  toast;  pour  the  cheese  sauce 
over  the  eggs  and  surround  the  whole  with  asparagus  tips, 
or  tomatoes  which  have  been  sliced  rather  thick,  and 
dipped  in  batter  or  crumbs  and  fried. 


Macaroni  and  Cheese 

1  cup  macaroni,  broken  in  2  tablespoons  flour, 
small  pieces.  1  cup  milk. 

6  cups  boiling  water.  Yi  cup  grated  cheese. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  Y  cup  bread  crumbs, 
substitute. 

Wash  macaroni  and  cook  in  salted  boiling  water  until 
tender.  Melt  butter,  add  flour;  cook  until  frothy;  add 
cold  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Season.  Put 
macaroni,  sauce  and  cheese  in  layers  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  cover  with  crumbs  moistened  with  melted  butter 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown. 


Cheese  Toast  and  Bacon 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  flour  and 
cook  until  frothy,  then  add  1  cup  cold  milk,  stirring  until 
thick;  season  and  add  >^  cup  grated  cheese;  stir  until 
cheese  is  melted,  then  pour  over  slices  of  toast  and  place 
2  pieces  of  bacon  fried  until  crisp  on  top  of  cheese. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [123] 

Baked  Rice  and  Cheese 

2  cups  cooked  rice.  Yi  green  pepper,  chopped. 

1  cup  strained  tomatoes.  1  teaspoon  onion  juice. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  M  cup  grated  cheese. 

Add  all  ingredients,  except  cheese  to  rice.  Heat  to  boil- 
ing point,  and  just  before  serving  add  cheese,  mixing  in 
well  with  two  forks. 


Meat  Loaf  Creole 

V/i  pounds  chopped  beef.  1  green  pepper  finely  chopped. 

Yi  pound  chopped  veal.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

\i  pound  chopped  salt  pork.  34  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  onion,  chopped.  Dash  paprika. 

Grease  a  bread  pan  and  put  in  half  the  mixture.  Place 
strips  of  pimento  over  the  top,  add  the  rest  of  the  meat  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes.  Serve  with 
molds  of  hot  boiled  rice  and  tomato  sauce. 


Spaghetti  a  I'ltalienne 

Boil  ^  pound  of  spaghetti  in  boiling  water  for  25  min- 
utes. 

Prepare  a  sauce  as  for  Rissotto,  using  olive  oil  for  short- 
ening, and  cook  the  tomato  sauce  until  onions  are  tender. 
Add  the  sauce  to  the  spaghetti,  then  add  cheese,  and  stir 
until  cheese  is  melted.  Dried  or  canned  mushrooms  may 
be  added  to  the  tomato  sauce  if  desired. 


Stuffed  Peppers 

Cut  the  tops  and  remove  the  seeds  from  sweet  green 
peppers;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  allow  to  stand 
5  or  10  minutes. 

Stuff  with  cooked  rice  or  macaroni  seasoned  well  with 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  finely-chopped  onion,  and  moisten 
with  strained  tomato,  cover  the  top  with  buttered  bread- 
crumbs, arrange  in  a  baking  dish  and  bake  about  ^  of 
an  hour. 


[124]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Corn  Pudding 

1  cup  canned  com.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

2  slightly  beaten  eggs.  K  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  milk.  Yi  tablespoon  sugar. 

Mix  ingredients,  bake  in  well-greased  individual  or 
large  baking  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  about  35  minutes. 
Unmold  and  serve  with  a  white  sauce  and  stuffed  tomatoes 
or  tomato  fritters. 

Poached  Eggs  California 

Toast  rounds  of  bread,  dip  the  edges  lightly  in  boiling 
salted  water,  spread  with  butter. 

Set  a  carefully  poached  fresh  egg  on  each  slice.  Over 
3  or  4  eggs  pour  a  cup  of  sauce  made  of  2  tablespoons  each 
of  butter  and  flour,  >^  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  pepper, 
^  cup  of  tomato  puree  and  yi  cup  of  milk.  Make  same 
as  for  plain  white  sauce. 

Tamale  Loaf 

^  can  com.  1  well-beaten  egg. 

y^  can  tomatoes.  J^  cup  commeal. 

Itablespoon  shortening, melted.  6  ripe  olives. 

^  large  onion,  chopped.  Y^  cup  chopped  nuts  or  meat. 

Yi  green  pepper,  chopped. 

Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Melt  shorten- 
ing, add  onion  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  corn,  tomatoes, 
salt  and  chopped  pepper.  Bring  to  boiling  point.  Add 
cornmeal  gradually,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  about  20 
minutes,  then  add  egg,  olives  and  nuts  or  meat.  Pour  into 
baking  dish  and  bake  45  minutes.  Serve  with  or  without 
tomato  sauce. 

Polenta 

1  cup  commeal.  Yi  cup  of  grated  cheese. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  Y  teaspoon  pepper. 

4  cups  boiling  water. 

Add  salt  to  boiling  water,  then  add  corn  meal  very 
slowly  to  prevent  lumping.  Let  boil  rapidly  for  15  minutes, 
then  finish  in  double  boiler.  Turn  into  a  greased  shallow 
pan,  sprinkle  with  cheese  and  pepper  and  place  in  the  oven 
until  cheese  is  melted.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  gravy 
or  as  a  garnish  for  meat,  or  plain  with  a  tomato  sauce. 
Dried  mushrooms  are  an  addition  to  a  sauce  for  polenta. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK  BOOK  [125] 

Spanish  Farina 

1}4  cups  farina  (cooked).  6  olives,  chopped  fine. 

H  can  corn.  Cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  1  green  pepper,  chopped  fine. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  1  can  tomato  sauce. 

2  onions,  chopped  fine. 

Mix  all  ingredients,  put  in  casserole,  cover  and  bake  in 
medium  oven  thirty  minutes,  or  put  together  and  heat  in 
a  double  boiler. 


Rice  and  Meat  Loaf 

2  cups  cold  cooked  meat  cut       2  cups  cooked  rice, 
in  dice.  ^2  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  stock  or  gravy.  1  teaspoon  onion  juice. 

3  tablespoons  shortening.  Pepper  to  taste. 
3  tablespoons  flour. 

Melt  shortening,  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth.  Add 
stock,  cook  until  thick.  Add  remaining  ingredients,  except 
rice.  Butter  a  bread  pan,  line  with  rice,  pressing  firmly. 
Add  meat,  cover  with  rice.  Bake  until  firm  and  serve  with 
a  tomato  sauce. 


Cheese  Fondu 

1  cup  cheese  broken  into  small  Paprika, 
pieces.  l'/^  cups  milk. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  sub-  3^  cup  soft  bread  crumbs, 
stitute.  2  eggs. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 
3^  teaspoon  each  salt  and  dry 
mustard. 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  melt  butter,  add  dry  materials 
and  cook  until  frothy,  then  add  milk  and  cook  until  creamy. 
Pour  over  the  slightly  beaten  eggs,  add  bread  crumbs  and 
cheese.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm  in  the 
center. 


[126]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Gnocchi 

1  cup  milk.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  flour.  y^  cup  grated  cheese. 

J^  teaspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  butter  or  sub- 
Paprika,  stitute. 

Bring  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  then  add  flour  all  at 
once  and  stir  until  the  mixture  forms  a  ball  of  dough, 
add  seasonings,  remove  from  fire  and  beat  in  eggs  one  at 
a  time,  beating  until  smooth.  Spread  in  a  shallow  pan 
and  cool.  Cut  in  small  squares,  dip  in  cornmeal.  Heat 
butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  fry  the  squares  a  golden  brown 
on  each  side,  adding  more  butter  if  necessary.  Sprinkle 
with  cheese  and  serve  with  a  highly  seasoned  tomato  sauce. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [127] 

The  Use  of  Left-Overs 

Every  housewife  faces  the  problem  of  "left-overs."  To 
utilize  and  prepare  them  into  satisfactory  dishes  requires 
more  skill  and  inventiveness  than  to  cook  the  raw  food, 
and  this  branch  of  cookery  is  an  art  in  itself.  The  thrifty 
home-maker  uses  all  the  left-overs.  Living  has  been  much 
too  high  for  the  average  person  to  ignore  this  type  of 
cookery. 

Food  can  so  easily  be  spoiled  by  reheating.  Take  meats 
for  example.  A  tender  piece  of  roast  beef  reheated  for 
ten  minutes  will  be  tough.  This  applies  to  almost  all 
cooked  meats.  If  sliced  very  thin  and  hot  sauce  or  gravy 
poured  over  the  slices,  the  meat  will  be  tender;  but  if 
added  to  the  hot  gravy  in  an  attempt  to  reheat  it  will 
invariably  toughen.  Meat  must  be  cooked  a  long  time 
when  reheating  if  it  is  to  be  tender,  the  theory  being  that 
it  will  toughen  at  first,  but  will  become  tender  by  long, 
slow  cooking.  For  this  reason  the  covered  casserole  dishes 
have  become  almost  indispensable. 

A  casserole  is  used  for  cooking  foods  that  require  slow 
cooking  for  either  a  short  or  long  period.  The  dish  is 
covered  to  keep  in  all  the  steam,  and  to  retain  flavor. 
Dicing  food  takes  more  time  than  chopping  or  putting 
through  a  food  grinder,  but  if  one  has  the  time,  diced  meat 
will  present  a  much  more  attractive  appearance,  as  well 
as  being  more  palatable.  Diced  meat  or  fish  may  be  com- 
bined with  a  white  sauce,  adding  cubes  of  cooked  potatoes, 
several  tablespoons  of  cooked  peas  and  diced  carrots.  If 
meat  is  used,  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice  can  be  the  season- 
ing; if  fish,  add  a  little  lemon  juice  also,  or  a  finely  chopped 
sour  pickle.  Or  add  the  diced  meat  to  a  tomato  sauce, 
seasoning  well  with  onion  and  chopped  green  peppers, 
adding  six  or  eight  ripe  or  green  olives.  A  meat  pie  is 
always  acceptable.  Dice  meat,  add  to  thickened,  well 
seasoned  gravy  or  sauce,  adding  cooked  potatoes  cut  in 
cubes,  and  small  boiled  onions  and  any  other  left-over 
vegetables,  such  as  peas,  carrots,  turnips  or  cauliflower. 
Place  in  a  casserole  or  baking  dish.  Make  a  plain  pie 
crust  or  biscuit  dough  for  top  and  bake  in  a  moderately 


[128]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

hot  oven.  This  may  be  prepared  in  the  morning,  and  the 
crust  made,  but  not  added  until  the  pie  goes  into  the  oven. 

Smaller  quantities  of  left-over  meat  or  fish  may  be 
chopped  and  made  into  souffles,  timbales  or  croquettes, 
or  added  to  a  well-seasoned  white  sauce  and  served  on 
toast,  or  in  ramekins  or  a  baking  dish,  the  top  covered 
with  buttered  crumbs  and  then  browned  in  the  oven.  The 
white  sauce,  made  of  butter  or  substitute  and  milk,  supply 
additional  food  value  to  take  the  place  of  the  smaller  quan- 
tity of  meat  or  fish. 

One  most  important  factor  in  the  success  of  these  dishes 
is  in  careful  preparation.  All  bones,  gristle,  skin  or  tough, 
undesirable  portions  should  be  removed  and  discarded.  If 
there  are  large  meat  bones,  as  in  a  roast  of  lamb,  these  may 
be  broken — adding  two  or  three  cupfuls  of  cold  water,  also 
an  onion.  Simmer  for  an  hour  or  more  and  use  as  a  base 
for  gravy  or  sauce. 

A  cupful  of  chopped  meat  or  fish  will  make  a  souffle, 
croquettes,  timbales  or  creamed  meat  in  ramekins  for  four 
persons. 

Left-over  vegetables  can  be  reheated  in  a  white  sauce, 
used  for  cream  soups  or  chowders;  scalloped,  made  into  au 
gratin  dishes,  added  to  a  fritter  batter  and  fried  in  deep  fat 
or  used  in  salad. 

Almost  any  combination  of  vegetables  makes  an  attrac- 
tive salad,  providing  it  is  accompanied  with  a  well-made 
salad  dressing.  The  left-over  breakfast  cereal  may  be 
molded,  sliced,  dipped  in  flour  and  fried  a  delicate  brown, 
or  half  a  cupful  may  replace  the  same  quantity  of  flour  in 
the  breakfast  griddle  cakes  or  muffins;  any  fresh  or  cooked 
fruit  can  be  mashed  and  poured  over  molded  cold  cereal 
for  the  children's  dessert. 

Stale  broken  pieces  of  bread  may  be  dried  in  a  very  slow 
oven,  then  rolled  or  put  through  the  food  grinder  and  stored 
in  covered  fruit  jars.  To  be  used  in  scalloped  dishes,  to 
bread  cutlets,  fish  or  croquettes.  Or  cut  into  very  small 
cubes,  dried  in  a  slow  oven  for  croutons  for  soup;  made 
into  dressing  for  stuffed  poultry,  meat,  fish,  tomatoes  or 
eggplant.  Any  of  the  bread  puddings  are  palatable,  pro- 
vided too  much  bread  has  not  been  used.  The  old- 
fashioned  custard  bread  pudding  should  not  be  made  just 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [129] 

to  save  bread,  for  that  would  not  be  an  economy,  as  the 
other  ingredients  needed  are  too  expensive  merely  to  use 
up  left-overs  of  bread. 

Small  portions  of  cooked  or  raw  tomatoes  may  make 
savory  sauces. 

Sour  milk  should  never  be  wasted.  It  can  always  be 
substituted  for  fresh  milk  in  flour  mixtures,  using  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  soda  to  each  cupful  of  sour  milk,  omitting 
the  baking  powder;  or  the  sour  milk  can  be  made  into 
cottage  cheese. 

All  pieces  of  beef  or  chicken  fat  should  be  cut  fine  and 
carefully  rendered  to  be  used  for  frying.  Fat  left  from  fry- 
ing bacon  or  ham  should  be  saved,  but  kept  in  a  separate 
jar,  as  the  smoked  flavor  is  not  desirable  for  all  frying. 

Left-overs  of  fruit  may  be  combined  and  used  for  salads 
or  for  dessert.  Stale  cake  may  be  served  for  pudding,  with 
the  addition  of  a  custard  or  chocolate  pudding  sauce;  or 
the  cake  may  be  cut  in  finger  lengths  and  used  for  char- 
lottes or  charlotte  russe. 

The  greatest  care  should  be  given  left-overs,  so  that 
they  will  be  in  proper  condition  to  use  later.  Jelly  glasses 
with  covers  are  convenient  for  small  portions  of  vegetables 
or  fruit. 

The  use  of  left-overs  is  unlimited,  and  while  such  cook- 
ery requires  both  consideration  and  time,  the  results  will 
amply  repay  for  the  additional  labor. 


[130]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Twice  Cooked  Meats 

Meat  which  is  reheated  or  twice  cooked  is  less  nourishing 
than  when  first  prepared  because  no  matter  how  careful 
the  cooking  process,  a  certain  amount  of  the  nutritive 
juices  will  escape  in  the  first  cooking,  although  usually  a 
portion  of  this  is  retained  and  served  as  a  sauce  or  gravy. 
So  the  wise  housewife  prepares  various  savory  sauces  when 
reheating  meat  or  fish,  to  overcome  this  loss  of  flavor  and 
add  to  the  palatability  of  these  warmed  over  dishes. 

Twice  cooked  meat,  if  properly  prepared,  is  very  appe- 
tizing and  not  hard  to  digest — unless  reheated  in  such  a 
fashion  as  to  render  it  tough  and  leathery.  It  is  also  neces- 
sary to  bear  in  mind  when  preparing  these  various  dishes, 
that  the  meat  should  never  be  actually  twice  cooked,  but 
merely  reheated. 

Whenever  vegetables,  sauces,  etc.,  are  to  be  added  to 
cooked  meat  or  fish,  they  should  be  thoroughly  cooked 
before  being  combined  with  the  ingredients  to  be  reheated. 
The  cooked  meat  or  fish,  when  reheating,  should  be  pro- 
tected if  possible  from  coming  in  direct  contact  with  the 
heat  of  the  fire,  oven  or  fat;  which  means  that  the  reheat- 
ing process  should  be  accomplished  by  adding  the  cooked 
food  to  a  hot  sauce,  or  be  combined  with  other  materials. 

The  finer  these  cooked  ingredients  are  the  less  time  re- 
quired for  reheating,  and  the  more  quickly  will  they  absorb 
the  sauce  which  is  to  give  flavor  to  the  dish.  However, 
this  does  not  mean  to  mash  the  meat  or  fish,  but  carefully 
chop  it;  also  be  careful  to  remove  all  bone,  gristle  and 
undesirable  portions  before  chopping,  and  if  cutting  in 
cubes  or  slicing,  have  the  pieces  of  uniform  size,  which  will 
add  greatly  to  the  appearance  of  the  finished  dish. 

Any  kind  of  cooked  fish,  meat  and  some  vegetables  may 
be  used  in  making  croquettes.  Meat  and  fish  croquettes 
are  simply  a  finely  chopped  mixture  combined  with  a 
thick  sauce,  then  crumbed,  shaped,  dipped  in  egg,  then  in 
crumbs  again  and  fried  in  deep  fat.  Whatever  variety  of 
meat  or  fish  the  rules  for  the  sauce,  molding  and  frying 
are  the  same. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [131] 

Lamb  Curry 

Cut  cold  roast  lamb  in  thin  slices.  Prepare  a  sauce  by 
melting  4  tablespoons  of  shortening,  add  %  slice  onion  and 
fry  until  a  golden  brown;  remove  onion  from  fat  and  add 
4  tablespoons  of  flour,  yi  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1  teaspoon 
of  curry  powder.  Mix  until  smooth  and  add  gradually 
2  cups  of  stock  or  warm  water.  Stir  constantly  until  thick, 
then  pour  over  sliced  lamb.  Stock  can  be  made  by  adding 
a  bouillon  cube  to  water  or  using  left-over  gravy  and  water 
steamed  before  using.  Garnish  platter  with  hot  cooked 
rice,  molded  in  custard  cups. 

Reheating  Roast  Beef 

Slice  cold  roast  beef  very  thin  and  arrange  on  a  warm 
platter.  Just  before  serving  pour  a  hot  meat  sauce  or  gravy 
over  the  slices  of  meat.  If  the  beef  is  reheated  and  allowed 
to  stand  over  the  fire  in  the  gravy  it  becomes  tough. 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Chop  rather  fine,  equal  quantities  of  cold  corned  beef, 
free  from  all  fat  and  gristle,  and  cold  boiled  potatoes;  heat 
about  3  tablespoons  of  shortening  in  a  frying  pan;  turn 
in  the  chopped  ingredients  and  add  one-quarter  cup  of 
stock  or  milk  and  season  with  paprika;  mix  together,  cover 
and  let  allow  to  brown,  watching  very  carefully  and  stirring 
occasionally.  Fold  over  and  turn  on  a  hot  platter;  pour  a 
well-seasoned  tomato  sauce  around  the  hash  and  garnish 
with  baked  bananas. 


Cottage  Pie 

2  cups  of  diced  cooked  meat.  1  tablespoon  of  grated  onion. 

1  cup  of  gravy  or  sauce.  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes. 

1  cup  of  cooked  peas. 

Add  peas  and  onion  and  diced  meat  to  the  gravy  or  well- 
seasoned  sauce.  Pour  into  a  casserole  or  baking  dish 
cover  with  mashed  potato.  Brush  the  potato  with  slightly 
beaten  egg  or  melted  shortening.    Brown  in  a  hot  oven. 


[132]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Scalloped  Meat 

Cut  bread  in  finger  length  strips.  Place  a  layer  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish  and  pour  over  enough  gravy  or  brown 
sauce  to  moisten.  Add  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  or  diced 
meat  and  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion.  Repeat 
until  dish  is  filled,  covering  top  layer  of  meat  with  buttered 
crumbs.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

Make  a  croquette  mixture,  using  any  left-over  meat. 
Scald  peppers  for  5  minutes  in  boiling  water,  then  cut  oflf" 
the  stem  end  and  remove  the  seeds.  Fill  with  meat  mix- 
ture, cover  top  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  about  30  minutes.    Serve  with  a  tomato  sauce. 

Meat  Pie 

2  cups  diced  cooked  meat.  1  cup  cooked  diced  potatoes. 

2  cups  gravy  or  sauce.  2  onions  sliced  and  cooked. 

]/2  cup  sliced  cooked  carrots. 

Pour  all  ingredients  in  a  casserole  or  baking  dish.  Cover 
with  Yi  of  the  biscuit  dough  recipe  or  with  a  plain  pastry. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Creamed  Dried  Beef  with  Spaghetti 

1  cup  dried  beef.  2  hard  cooked  eggs. 

2  cups  white  sauce.  2  cups  cooked  hot  spaghetti. 

Cover  dried  beef  with  cold  water  and  slowly  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  drain.  Cut  the  hard  cooked  eggs  in 
slices.  Prepare  the  white  sauce,  season  and  add  the 
dried  beef.  Arrange  the  macaroni  on  a  hot  platter  and 
pour  over  the  creamed  beef  and  garnish  with  the  slices  of 
hard  cooked  eggs. 

Chicken  and  Oyster  Pie 

Arrange  slices  of  cooked  chicken  and  oysters  in  layers 
in  a  large  or  individual  baking  dish.  Add  a  little 
chicken  broth  or  oyster  liquor  and  season.  Cover  the 
top  with  flaky  pastry.  Prick  pastry  to  let  out  the  steam. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [133] 

Rissoles 

Make  any  croquette  mixture  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Pre- 
pare flaky  pastry,  roll  out  and  cut  in  3-inch  rounds  with  a 
biscuit  cutter.  Place  a  spoonful  of  the  croquette  mixture 
in  the  center  of  half  of  the  rounds  of  pastry,  brush  the  edge 
of  the  pastry  with  cold  water  and  place  a  round  of  pastry 
on  top,  pressing  the  edges  firmly  together.  Prick  each 
rissole  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Meat,  Chicken  or  Fish  au  Gratin 

1  cup  meat  cut  in  cubes.  }/i  cup  bread  crumbs. 

J^  cup  grated  cheese.  J^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  tomato  sauce.  1  cup  cooked  rice. 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  place  a  layer  of  rice  and  diced 
meat  alternately  until  all  is  used.  Add  salt  to  tomato 
sauce  and  pour  over  the  mixture.  Mix  cheese  and  bread 
crumbs  and  spread  over  the  top.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  to 
brown. 

Tongue  Piquante 

Make  a  piquante  sauce.  Place  thin  slices  of  cooked 
tongue  in  a  casserole  or  baking  dish,  pour  over  the  piquante 
sauce  and  set  in  the  oven  to  heat. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads 

Two  cups  blanched  sweetbreads  cut  in  dice.  One  small 
can  button  mushrooms;  make  a  sauce  with  4  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter,  4  tablespoons  flour,  mix  well  and  cook 
until  foamy;  add  2  cups  rich  milk  or  thin  cream  and  stir 
well  until  thick  and  creamy;  season  with  ^  teaspoon  salt, 
a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  ground  nutmeg.  Add  sweet- 
breads and  mushrooms.    Serve  in  ramekins. 

To  blanch  sweetbreads  soak  1  hour  in  cold  water,  drain, 
cover  with  cold  water,  add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice 
or  vinegar,  2  or  3  cloves,  dash  of  pepper  and  a  tiny  piece  of 
bay  leaf;  simmer  about  15  minutes;  drain  and  remove 
fibers. 


1341  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 


Deep  Fat  Frying 


Deep  fat  frying  is  a  method  of  cooking  by  immersing 
food  in  very  hot  fat.  If  properly  fried,  foods  cooked  in 
this  manner  should  not  be  unwholesome  to  persons  in 
normal  health.  Vegetable  oils  are  the  best  fats  to  use  for 
deep  fat  frying  because  they  can  be  heated  to  a  higher 
temperature  before  the  burning  point  is  reached  than 
animal  fats.  Fat  should  be  heated  until  just  an  indication 
of  a  delicate  blue  smoke  or  vapor  arises.  If  the  smoke  is 
decidedly  perceptible,  the  fat  is  too  hot  for  use.  Heated  to 
the  point  when  the  smoke  can  just  be  noticed  and  the  food 
to  be  fried  added  to  the  fat,  the  temperature  will  be 
immediately  reduced  to  the  right  degree  of  heat.  To  test 
the  fat  have  several  cubes  of  bread  when  the  fat  is  hot, 
but  not  smoking.  Drop  in  one  of  these  cubes  of  bread  and 
count  40,  about  as  the  clock  ticks.  If  the  bread  turns  a 
golden  brown  in  that  time,  the  fat  is  ready  for  mixtures 
that  require  heating  through,  such  as  croquettes,  fish  balls, 
fritters  of  cooked  fruit  or  vegetables  which  have  only  a 
coating  of  thin  batter.  If  the  foods  to  be  fried  are  un- 
cooked mixtures,  such  as  doughnuts  or  fillets  of  fish,  the 
bread  should  take  60  seconds  to  brown.  The  fat  should 
be  tested  each  time  before  the  food  is  added. 

To  heat,  place  the  fat  in  the  kettle,  cover  and  allow  to 
heat  gradually,  watching  carefully. 

A  heavy  kettle  is  always  an  advantage,  as  it  may  be 
kept  at  a  more  even  temperature  than  a  light-weight  one. 
Any  fat  may  be  used,  the  vegetable  oils  now  on  the  market 
proving  very  satisfactory.  This  includes  both  corn  and 
cottonseed  oil,  all  of  the  lard  substitutes,  and,  of  course, 
the  pure  leaf  lard. 

Unless  a  strong-flavored  food  has  been  cooked  in  the 
fat,  such  as  onions,  etc.,  it  may  be  used  over  and  over  again 
if  clarified  after  using. 

Frying  baskets  are  a  great  convenience,  particularly  with 
delicate  frying,  as  it  saves  handling.  The  articles  to  be 
fried  are  placed  in  the  basket  then  submerged  in  the  hot 
fat.  When  the  food  is  brown,  the  basket  is  lifted  out.  In 
this  way  each  article  is  perfect. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [135] 

If  the  fat  bubbles  or  sputters  while  heating  it  denotes  the 
presence  of  water,  and  it  will  be  impossible  to  fry  the  food 
successfully,  for  the  fat  will  not  become  hot  enough.  To 
overcome  this  condition,  allow  the  water  to  evaporate, 
and  then  it  will  heat  to  the  right  temperature  for  frying. 

Fat  which  has  been  overheated  at  any  time  is  unwhole- 
some and  should  not  be  used.  It  has  become  decomposed, 
and  cooling  and  reheating  will  not  restore  it.  The  fat 
absorbed  by  food  cooked  in  such  fat  will  be  irritating. 
After  using  fat  for  frying  let  stand  until  somewhat  cool  to 
allow  any  particles  of  food  to  settle.  Then  strain  through 
a  double  thickness  of  cheese  cloth  to  remove  all  remaining 
particles.  If  not  overheated  and  carefully  strained,  vege- 
table fats  can  be  used  over  and  over  a  number  of  times. 
If  fat  becomes  dark  in  color  add  a  few  slices  of  raw  potato 
and  heat  very  slowly.  This  will  quickly  absorb  the  various 
impurities  and  clarify  it.  To  prevent  food  from  absorbing 
fat  have  fat  heated  according  to  the  test  already  given, 
using  cubes  of  bread.  Forty  seconds  for  cooked  mixtures, 
60  seconds  for  uncooked  articles.  Do  not  put  too  many 
cold  articles  in  the  fat  at  once,  thereby  reducing  the  heat 
too  much.  Test  fat  each  time  before  food  is  added.  Do 
not  have  mixtures  to  be  fried  too  rich.  Do  not  use  too 
much  baking  powder.  And,  except  for  flour  mixtures, 
have  food  well  coated  with  eggs  and  crumbs.  The  egg 
forms  a  coating  which  prevents  the  food  absorbing  fat  if 
the  temperature  of  the  fat  is  correct.  The  flour  mixtures 
should  contain  enough  egg  to  prevent  the  mixture  absorb- 
ing fat  if  the  fat  is  of  the  right  heat. 

Sauteing  is  cooking  food  in  a  small  quantity  of  fat; 
however,  the  term  frying  is  more  commonly  used.  Many 
experiments  have  been  carried  on  to  determine  which 
method  of  cooking  was  preferable,  deep  fat  frying  or  saute- 
ing, and  it  has  been  decided  that  if  properly  done  the 
deep  fat  method  will  absorb  less  fat  than  sauteing  or  cook- 
ing in  a  small  amount  of  fat. 


[136]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Fritter  Batter 

To  be  used  for  vegetables  or  fruit. 
y^  cup  flour.  1  egg  beaten. 

34  teaspoon  salt.  Yi  cup  milk. 

Mix  ingredients  with  an  egg  beater  until  very  smooth 
and  free  from  lumps,  beating  with  a  rotary  egg  beater. 
Let  stand  an  hour  or  more  in  a  cool  place  before  using. 

Take  slices  of  pineapple,  banana  or  any  cooked  fruit  or 
cooked  vegetable  such  as  cauliflower,  egg  plant,  etc.,  dip 
in  batter  to  completely  coat,  then  fry  in  deep  fat  until  a 
golden  brown. 

Swedish  Timbale  Cases 

1  egg.  yi  teaspoon  salt. 

y^  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  olive  or  other  vege- 

yi  cup  flour.  table  oil. 

Beat  eggs,  add  remaining  ingredients  and  beat  until 
very  smooth,  using  the  egg  beater.  The  mixture  should 
be  very  thin.  Set  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  or  more. 
Have  fat  deep  enough  to  completely  cover  the  timbale  iron. 
Heat  the  iron  with  the  fat.  When  fat  is  hot  remove  iron, 
drain  and  dip  into  the  batter  a  little  more  than  half  its 
depth.  Dip  iron  into  fat  at  once,  completely  covering  it 
with  fat.  The  cases  are  cooked  when  a  delicate  brown.  It 
may  be  necessary  to  test  one  or  two  before  the  batter  is 
the  right  consistency.  If  the  cases  are  not  crisp  the  mix- 
ture is  too  thick  and  should  be  thinned  with  a  little  milk. 
If  the  batter  does  not  cling  to  the  timbale  form,  it  is  too 
hot.    It  requires  a  little  skill  to  get  them  just  right. 

To  Shape  Croquettes 

Allow  one  rounding  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  for  each 
croquette.  Form  into  a  ball,  dip  in  sifted  bread  crumbs 
and  form  into  any  shape  desired.  This  is  a  very  simple 
process  and  requires  very  little  practice  to  shape  very 
attractive  croquettes. 

When  all  the  croquettes  have  been  molded,  dip  in  beaten 
egg  diluted  with  one  or  two  tablespoons  of  cold  water, 
roll  in  crumbs  again  and  set  aside  to  fry.  The  item  of  first 
importance  in  frying  is  the  temperature  of  the  fat.    When 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [137] 

frying  mixtures  covered  with  egg  and  crumbs,  the  fat 
should  be  hot  enough  to  stiffen  this  coating  the  instant  it 
comes  in  contact  with  it,  and  the  final  browning  should 
not  take  but  a  few  seconds.  The  frying  process  should 
encase  the  croquettes  in  a  crisp,  delicately  browned  crust 
while  being  reheated.  To  accomplish  this  the  fat  should 
not  be  smoking  hot  but  hot  enough  to  turn  a  cube  of 
bread  a  golden  brown  while  you  count  40.  If  you  have 
made  the  croquettes  the  size  suggested,  a  rounding  table- 
spoon for  each  croquette,  they  should  be  a  golden  brown 
and  well  heated  through. 

Frying  Process 

Fry  only  four  or  five  croquettes  at  one  time,  and  be  sure 
to  test  the  temperature  of  the  fat  between  each  frying. 
When  fried,  drain  the  croquettes  on  several  folds  of  soft 
paper,  laid  on  a  pan  in  a  warm  oven,  having  the  oven  door 
open. 

Thick  White  Sauce  for  Croquettes 

4  tablespoons  shortening.  1  cup  cold  milk. 

4  tablespoons  flour. 

Melt  shortening,  add  flour,  stir  until  smooth;  set  over  a 
fire,  cook  until  frothy,  then  add  cold  milk  and  cook,  stirring 
constantly  until  thick.  Add  seasonings  and  chopped  food 
to  the  sauce;  then  cool. 

Thick  Brown  Sauce  for  Croquettes 

Brown  sauce  is  made  from  stock,  or  stock  can  be  made 
in  a  minute's  time  by  dissolving  a  bouillon  cube  in  a  cup 
of  hot  water.  Use  4  tablespoons  drippings  for  the  short- 
ening, and  when  this  is  melted  add  several  slices  of  onion 
and  cook  until  a  golden  brown;  then  remove  onion,  add  4 
tablespoons  flour  and  cook  the  flour  in  the  fat  until  brown; 
then  add  a  cup  of  stock,  stir  until  thick,  season. 

Croquettes  of  Meat,  Ham  or  Fish 

1  cup  thick  white  or  brown       ]/^  teaspoon  salt, 
sauce.  1  teaspoon  onion  juice. 

2  cups  minced  meat  or  fish. 

Mix  ingredients  and  set  aside  to  become  cold.  Make 
into  small  round  or  oblong  forms.    Dip  in  crumbs,  then  in 


[138]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

slightly  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs.  When  all  are  made 
fry  in  deep  fat  until  a  golden  brown.  Drain  on  brown  paper 
and  serve  with  a  tomato  or  other  sauce. 


Chicken  Croquettes 

Chop  chicken  very  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  onion 
juice  and  lemon  juice.  Chopped  ham,  tongue,  sweetbreads, 
veal  or  mushrooms  all  combine  with  chicken,  and  any 
of  these  foods,  even  a  small  portion,  will  improve  the  flavor 
of  the  croquettes.  For  each  cup  of  chopped  meat  use  1 
cup  of  thick  white  sauce.  The  sauce  for  chicken  croquettes 
may  be  made  with  either  chicken  stock  or  milk. 

Rice  Croquettes 

2  cups  boiled  rice.  1  egg. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  Y^  teaspoon  salt. 

To  hot  boiled  rice  add  butter  and  well-beaten  egg;  spread 
on  a  shallow  plate  and  when  cold  shape  in  balls,  roll  in 
soft  crumbs,  dip  in  egg  slightly  beaten,  then  in  crumbs 
again  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  For  sweet  rice  croquettes  add  2 
tablespoons  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Potato  Croquettes 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes.  1  teaspoon  onion  juice. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  parsley. 

Yi  teaspoon  pepper. 

Add  ingredients  in  order  given  to  potatoes  and  prepare 
as  for  rice  croquettes. 

Cheese  Croquettes 

1  cup  thick  white  sauce.  Y2  cup  grated  cheese. 

Y  teaspoon  salt.  1  cup  cheese,  cut  in  dice. 

Paprika.  2  egg  yolks. 

To  white  sauce  add  beaten  yolks  and  cheese;  stir  until 
cheese  is  melted;  cool,  then  shape  and  crumb  as  for  rice 
croquettes. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [139] 

Macaroni  Croquettes 

2  cups  finely  chopped  cooked       J^  teaspoon  salt. 

macaroni.  Paprika. 

1  cup  thick  white  sauce. 

Add  chopped  macaroni  to  the  thick  white  sauce;  also 
seasoning.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
crumbs,  then  in  slightly  beaten  egg,  then  crumbs.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  until  a  golden  brown.    Serve  with  a  cheese  sauce. 


Com  Fritters 

1  egg  beaten  separately.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  com.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

}/i  cup  flour.  Paprika. 

Beat  egg  yolk;  add  corn,  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder 
and  salt;  then  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  or  on  a  well  greased  griddle. 


Celery  Fritters 

Cut  celery  in  lengths  of  about  3  inches.  Parboil  until 
tender,  but  not  broken;  drain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Prepare  fritter  batter;  dip  celery  in  batter  and  fry  in  deep 
fat;  use  as  a  garnish  or  with  a  tomato  sauce.  This  is  a 
good  way  to  use  the  outer  stalks  of  celery. 

Banana  Fritters 

Dip  each  piece  of  banana  in  the  batter  and  fry  in  hot  fat; 
drain  on  brown  paper.  For  a  dessert  or  sweet  entree  serve 
with  a  sweet  sauce;  as  a  garnish  for  meat  serve  plain. 
Apple  or  pineapple  fritters  are  prepared  in  the  same 
manner. 

Tripe  Fried  in  Batter 

Tripe  is  usually  cooked  or  pickled  as  purchased  in  the 
market.  It  requires  more  cooking  to  make  it  tender.  Cut 
into  pieces  for  serving  and  cook  in  equal  parts  of  milk 
and  water  until  tender,  about  half  an  hour.  Drain,  dry, 
dip  in  fritter  batter  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


CHAPTER  SEVEN 

VEGETABLE  COOKERY 

SAUCES  SAVORY  AND  SWEET 

SALADS 

SALAD  DRESSINGS 


1421  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 


Vegetable  Cookery 


EGETABLE  cookery  is  very  often  slighted  because  it 
seems  too  simple  to  require  much  attention.  Hot 
or  cold  water  is  poured  over  them,  regardless  of 
the  type  of  vegetable.  Sometimes  they  are  cooked 
so  long  and  in  such  quantities  of  water  that  the  finished 
dish  is  anything  but  palatable. 

Vegetables  are  made  up  of  countless  little  cells  contain- 
ing water,  sugar,  starch,  mineral  salts,  etc.,  and  are  valu- 
able to  the  diet  as  bulk  food  and  for  these  mineral  salts. 
The  careful  housewife  will  see  that  vegetables  are  cooked 
so  as  to  retain  most  of  these  valuable  elements.  All  vege- 
tables should  be  cooked  in  boiling  water,  as  this  bursts  the 
starch  grains  at  once,  which  will  hold  the  nutriment  of 
the  vegetable.  If  cold  or  just  warm  water  is  used,  the 
starchy  frame  of  the  vegetable  will  become  soaked  with 
water,  and  in  the  case  of  very  starchy  vegetables,  such  as 
potatoes,  they  will  become  water-soaked  and  soggy — an 
unappetizing  and  indigestible  dish.  The  vegetables  de- 
ficient in  starch  should  be  cooked  in  boiling  hot  water  also, 
in  order  to  retain  the  flavor,  and  delicate  vegetables  should 
not  be  cooked  in  a  quantity  of  water  or  the  flavor  will  be 
impaired  and  much  of  the  mineral  salts  lost.  Steamed 
vegetables  retain  nearly  all  the  valuable  qualities  and  is  a 
very  satisfactory  method  for  cooking  many  vegetables. 

Foods  containing  starch  must  be  well  cooked.  Such 
vegetables  as  potatoes,  turnips  and  those  containing  starch 
in  the  form  of  woody. fiber  must  be  thoroughly  cooked  or 
they  will  be  unwholesome.  Green  peas  and  asparagus 
contain  sufficient  starch  to  require  thorough  cooking,  but 
in  order  to  retain  the  flavor  (sugar  and  other  elements) 
there  should  not  be  a  quantity  of  water  used,  and  while 
the  water  should  be  at  the  boiling  point  it  should  not  be 
allowed  to  boil  violently;  in  the  case  of  peas  all  water  should 
either  be  absorbed,  or  whatever  liquid  remains  should  be 
served  with  the  vegetables. 

The  liquid  from  asparagus  can  form  the  base  for  a  cream 
soup  or  can  be  used  to  make  a  sauce  to  pour  over  the  vege- 
table.    Spinach,  after  being  carefully  cleaned,  should  be 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK  [143] 

cooked  in  the  water  which  clings  to  the  leaves,  or  if  any 
water  is  added  it  should  be  only  sufficient  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle.  The  length  of  time  required  to  cook 
vegetables  depends  upon  their  age  and  how  long  they  have 
been  gathered. 

Some  vegetables  are  strong  flavored  and  for  this  type  a 
quantity  of  water  may  be  used.  Cabbage,  onions,  etc., 
come  under  this  class.  These  vegetables  may  be  blanched. 
By  that  is  meant  placing  the  vegetables  in  a  quantity  of 
cold  water  and  then  brought  quickly  to  the  boiling  point, 
boiled  not  more  than  5  minutes,  drained  and  cooked  in 
boiling  water  as  directed. 

Hard  water  has  a  tendency  to  toughen  and  harden 
woody  fiber,  and  thus  keep  the  sweet  juices  and  other 
valuable  compounds  within  the  article  cooked;  soft  water 
acts  in  just  the  opposite  manner.  For  that  reason  we  salt 
the  water  for  all  green  vegetables,  which  assists  them  in 
retaining  flavor  and  color.  Vegetables  containing  much 
woody  fiber  are  better  cooked  in  soft  water,  adding  salt 
when  half  cooked. 

If  you  will  bear  in  mind  that  vegetables  growing  above 
the  ground  require  salted  water  and  those  growing  below 
the  ground  can  be  salted  later  in  the  cooking  process,  there 
will  be  no  mistake. 

Some  cooks  advise  using  a  small  quantity  of  baking  soda 
in  the  water  in  which  woody  fibered  vegetables  are  cooked. 
This  is  not  an  advisable  process,  for  the  soda  is  an  alkali, 
and  while  it  will  certainly  soften  the  water  it  will  also 
destroy  certain  essential  elements  in  the  vegetables  and 
will  give  green  vegetables  a  faded,  unappetizing  appear- 
ance. 

In  the  case  of  dried  vegetables,  where  soda  is  often 
suggested  to  soften  the  cellular  structure,  soaking  over 
night  will  be  found  to  give  much  better  results. 

Green  vegetables  will  retain  their  color  better  if  cooked 
in  an  uncovered  kettle.  Strong  flavored  vegetables,  such 
as  cabbage  and  cauliflower,  will  not  give  off^  as  unpleasant 
an  odor  if  cooked  in  an  uncovered  kettle. 

Although  it  is  customary  to  boil  vegetables,  they  may  be 
either  steamed  or  baked.  To  steam  be  careful  to  keep 
water  constantly  boiling  and   saucepan  closely  covered. 


[144]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Steam  until  vegetable  is  tender.  This  will  take  a  little 
longer  than  boiling,  but  they  will  be  of  a  good  flavor  and 
there  will  be  scarcely  any  loss  of  mineral  salts  or  other 
nutritive  content.  This  method  of  cooking  may  be  used  for 
all  vegetables  firm  in  texture.  Where  possible,  steam  vege- 
tables without  removing  the  skins.  The  flavor  o  the  food 
will  be  greatly  improved  and  the  skins  may  be  more  quickly 
and  easily  removed  after  cooking.  In  baking  there  is  very 
little  loss  of  material  except  water,  which  is  driven  oflF  by 
the  heat.  Baked  potatoes,  both  white  and  sweet,  are 
among  the  most  easily  digested  and  wholesome  vege- 
tables. 

When  baking  raw  vegetables  always  use  a  medium  hot 
oven.  Potatoes  will  not  be  mealy  and  satisfactory  if  placed 
in  a  cool  oven  and  allowed  to  heat  through  gradually. 

The  time  required  for  cooking  vegetables  depends 
largely  upon  the  age  of  the  vegetable.  They  should  be 
cooked  until  tender,  but  no  longer.  Peas  overcooked  are 
ruined,  and  cabbage,  so  commonly  cooked  until  soggy  and 
heavy,  is  certainly  unappetizing  and  indigestible. 

For  seasonings,  just  salt,  pepper  and  butter  or  any  of 
the  well-made  white  or  drawn  butter  sauces.  The  wise 
housekeeper  will  master  the  art  of  making  simple  sauces 
and  will  vary  the  kind  to  suit  the  vegetable  the  sauce  is  to 
be  served  with.  If  the  vegetable  is  to  be  fried  be  sure  the 
fat  is  hot  and  drain  off  all  fat  before  serving.  Fat  soaked 
foods  are  unwholesome  and  indigestible. 

Cold  cooked  vegetables  may  be  scalloped  or  served  au 
gratin.  Any  of  these  methods  will  entirely  change  the 
flavor  and  appearance  so  completely  that  the  reheated 
dish  will  not  be  classified  as  a  left-over. 

Any  cooked  vegetable  may  be  creamed  by  adding  thin 
or  medium  white  sauce.  This  sauce  can  be  made  with  part 
milk  and  part  the  liquid  the  vegetable  was  cooked  in. 

Any  cooked  vegetable  may  be  scalloped  by  alternating 
layers  of  vegetables  and  a  medium  white  sauce,  covering 
the  top  with  buttered  crumbs  and  baking  until  brown. 

Vegetables  may  be  boiled  in  the  oven  as  well  as  on  top 
of  the  stove.  If  using  a  hot  oven  for  a  roast  the  vege- 
tables may  be  started  to  cook  on  top  of  the  stove,  then 
removed  to  the  oven  to  complete  cooking.     Of  course, 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [145] 

they  must  be  kept  at  the  boiling  point  if  the  best  flavor  is 
desired,  so  the  oven  must  be  hot. 

When  using  canned  vegetables,  it  is  better  to  open  the 
cans  an  hour  or  more  before  they  are  needed,  so  that  the 
contents  may  come  in  contact  with  a  fresh  supply  of  oxy- 
gen. Of  course  the  food  should  be  turned  from  the  can  at 
once.  All  canned  vegetables,  except  tomatoes  and  corn, 
should  be  rinsed  in  cold  water  before  using.  This  removes 
the  "canned"  taste  so  much  disliked  by  many. 

Artichokes 

Let  the  artichokes  soak  for  about  ten  minutes  in  cold 
salted  water.  This  draws  out  any  tiny  bugs  which  might 
be  under  the  leaves.  Remove  the  tough  outside  leaves 
and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  about  an  inch  off  the  top  of  each 
artichoke.  Drop  into  cold  water,  adding  a  tablespoon  of 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  let  stand  half  hour  or  more. 
This  prevents  discoloration.  Drain  and  cook  in  salted 
boiling  water  until  tender. 

Boiled  Asparagus 

Scrape  the  stalks,  wash  well  and  tie  in  small  bunches; 
cut  off  the  tough  ends.  Set  the  bunches  in  boiling  salted 
water  with  the  tips  upright  and  above  the  water.  Cook 
until  tender.  Drain,  arrange  on  buttered  toast,  season 
with  butter  and  serve.  Steaming  is  a  very  good  method  to 
use  for  cooking  asparagus. 

Asparagus  in  Milk 

Scrape  the  stalks,  cut  off  the  tough  ends  and  cut  in  inch 
lengths.  Put  in  a  double  boiler,  add  hot  milk  to  cover  and 
cook  until  tender.  Season  with  salt  and  butter  and  serve; 
or  for  each  cup  of  milk  allow  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
one  of  flour;  mix  until  well  blended,  then  add  to  hot  mix- 
ture and  stir  until  creamy.     Pour  over  toast  points. 

Asparagus  Shortcake 

Split  and  butter  hot  baking  powder  biscuits.  Have 
prepared  creamed  asparagus  and  put  the  biscuits  together 
with  this  mixture,  pouring  some  of  the  creamed  asparagus 
around  the  little  shortcakes. 


[146]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Succotash 

Take  equal  quantities  of  cooked  corn  and  cooked  string 
beans  or  cooked  lima  beans.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  of 
onion  juice,  butter  and  salt. 

Com  Custard 

1  cup  canned  corn.  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

Yi  cup  milk.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg,  beaten.  Paprika. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  named  and  pour  into  a  greased 
baking  dish.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm.  If  cooked 
too  quickly  the  mixture  will  separate  or  curdle. 

Green  Peas 

To  shelled  peas  add  about  the  same  quantity  of  boiling 
water,  allowing  ^4,  teaspoon  of  salt  and  ^  teaspoon  of 
sugar  to  each  cup  of  water.  Simmer  gently  until  tender, 
then  add  a  teaspoon  of  butter  just  before  serving. 

Glac6  Carrots 

Boil  or  steam  small  carrots  without  peeling.  Drain, 
plunge  in  cold  water  and  remove  skins.  Place  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  dot  with  butter  and  add 
about  Yi  cup  of  water.  Bake  about  half  an  hour,  basting 
several  times. 

Buttered  Beets 

Wash  beets  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender. 
Drain,  plunge  in  cold  water  and  remove  the  skins.  Cut  in 
cubes.  Reheat  in  a  double  boiler,  adding  salt  and  a  table- 
spoon of  butter. 

Scalloped  Onions 

Peel  and  slice  onions  about  half  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Put  a  layer  of  onions  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  or  casserole; 
season  with  salt,  dot  with  butter  and  dredge  with  flour. 
Continue  in  layers  until  all  the  onions  are  used.  Cover 
with  hot  milk  or  boiling  water;  cover  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  until  tender;  about  one  hour.  Or  reheat  cooked 
onions. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [147] 

Onions  with  Peanut  Butter  Sauce 

Peel  onions  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender. 
Make  a  white  sauce  using  the  proportion  of  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  ^  teaspoon  of  salt  to 
each  cup  of  milk  or  cream.  Add  4  tablespoons  of  peanut 
butter  to  each  cup  of  sauce  and  stir  until  well  blended. 
Pour  over  the  onions  that  have  been  drained,  and  serve. 

Celery  au  Gratin 

Two  cups  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  saucepan 
and  add  2  cups  of  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  until 
tender.  Drain,  reserving  liquid  to  make  a  sauce.  For  the 
sauce  use  ^  cup  of  celery  liquid  and  yi  cup  of  milk.  Melt 
2  tablespoons  shortening,  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  cook 
until  frothy,  add  liquid  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until 
creamy.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Grease  a  baking 
dish  and  add  alternate  layers  of  celery,  sauce  and  grated 
cheese.  Cover  the  top  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake 
until  brown. 

Fried  Eggplant 

Pare  eggplant  and  cut  in  3<4-inch  slices.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  then  dip  in  slightly  beaten  egg,  diluted 
with  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water.  After  covering  each  slice 
with  egg,  roll  in  soft  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat  or 
pan  fry  in  a  small  quantity  of  fat  cooking  in  either  case 
until  a  golden  brown. 

Quick  Cabbage 

Chop  cabbage  very  fine.  Plunge  into  boiling  salted 
water  and  boil  rapidly  for  15  minutes.  Drain,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter. 

Diced  Turnips 

Peel  turnips  and  cut  in  cubes;  cook  in  boiling  water 
until  tender  but  not  broken;  drain.  Allow  1  cup  of  medium 
white  sauce  for  2  cups  of  turnip,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice. 


[148]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Parsnip  Cakes 

Take  cold  mashed  parsnips  that  have  been  well 
seasoned  shape  into  small,  flat,  round  cakes;  roll  in  flour 
and  cook  in  butter  or  butter  substitute,  browning  on  each 
side. 

Steamed  Squash 

Cut  squash  in  pieces  to  fit  the  steamer  or  colander  in 
which  it  is  to  be  steamed.  Place  over  boiling  water, 
cover  closely  and  steam  until  tender,  about  one  hour. 
Scrape  the  pulp  from  the  shell  and  mash,  seasoning  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  very  small  amount  of  sugar. 

Baked  Cream  Squash 

Cut  small  cream  squash  in  half;  remove  seeds  and  fiber; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  dot  with  small  bits  of  butter  or 
substitute.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  ^  of  an  hour. 

Creamed  Cabbage 

4  cups  shredded  cabbage.  2  cups  medium  white  sauce. 

Add  shredded  cabbage  to  rapidly  boiling,  salted  water. 
Cook  until  tender;  drain,  then  add  to  the  well-seasoned 
white  sauce. 

Spinach 

Remove  roots  from  spinach.  Wash  very  well  in  several 
waters,  then  pour  hot  water  over  the  leaves.  This  causes 
any  remaining  grit  to  go  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Place 
spinach  in  a  kettle  with  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  cook  until 
tender  in  its  own  juice,  having  the  fire  low  and  lifting  occa- 
sionally to  prevent  burning.  Drain,  chop  fine  and  add 
seasonings  of  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Reheat  and  garnish 
with  slices  of  hard  cooked  egg.  Cooked  in  this  manner, 
all  of  the  valuable  salts  are  retained.  If  the  spinach  is 
old  and  rather  tough  it  may  be  necessary  to  use  about  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water. 

Creamed  Spinach 

For  2  cups  of  cooked,  chopped  spinach  allow  1  cup  of 
well-seasoned  medium  white  sauce  and  add  a  dash  of 
nutmeg. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [149] 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Wash  well  and  remove  outer  leaves  of  sprouts;  cook  in 
boiling,  salted  water  until  tender,  about  20  minutes.  Drain 
well,  add  2  tablespoons  butter  to  a  heavy  frying  pan.  Add 
the  sprouts  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  butter  is  all 
absorbed.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  on  a  platter 
rounded  with  toast  points  or  fried  bread. 


Dainty  Cabbage 

This  is  a  somewhat  novel  way  to  cook  this  humble 
vegetable,  but  it  will  be  found  very  palatable  and  as  it  is  a 
hearty  dish  can  be  served  when  the  meat  course  is  not  so 
plentiful. 

Select  a  firm  white  head  of  cabbage  and  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain.  Chop  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  2  level  tablespoons  of  butter,  1/2 
cup  of  milk  and  2  beaten  eggs,  and  1  teaspoon  of  vinegar. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients,  pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  top  is  a  golden  brown. 

Hot  Slaw 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  pepper. 

1  egg.  3  cups     shredded    uncooked 

1  tablespoon  flour.  cabbage. 

Yi  cup  milk.  Y^  teaspoon  mustard. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  ingredients  and  add  to  beaten  egg  and  milk  and  cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Add  vinegar  and  cabbage 
and  serve  very  hot. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

Cut  tops  and  remove  centers  of  sweet  green  peppers; 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  about  10  minutes. 
Make  a  stuflftng  of  cooked  rice  seasoned  well  with  butter, 
salt,  finely  chopped  onion,  moistening  well  with  strained 
tomato.  Fill  peppers  with  mixture,  cover  with  buttered 
crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  ^  of  an  hour. 


[150]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Creamed  Spinach 

Two  cups  of  chopped  cooked  spinach,  1  cup  of  medium 
white  sauce,  salt,  pepper,  few  grains  nutmeg.  Combine 
ingredients  and  reheat. 

Green  Peas  Maitre  d'Hotel 

2  cups  green  peas.  Y^  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

1  mint  leaf.  Salt  and  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or 
substitute. 

Cook  peas  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  salted  water, 
until  tender,  leaving  kettle  uncovered.  Mix  butter, 
chopped  mint,  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Drain  peas, 
add  butter  mixture,  return  to  fire  and  melt  and  serve. 

Pink  Beans  Spanish 

2  cup  beans.  1    pimento    or   green   pepper, 

1  onion.  chopped. 

2  cups  strained  tomato  or  to-       1   tablespoon   butter   or   sub- 
mato  sauce.  stitute. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Wash,  then  soak  beans  over  night;  drain,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  ^  hour.  Drain  again,  cover  again  with 
fresh  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Melt  butter, 
add  onion  and  pimento  and  cook  for  about  5  minutes, 
then  add  tomato.  Drain  beans,  add  the  sauce  and 
simmer  about  half  an  hour. 

Stufifed  Tomatoes 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  smooth  end  of  tomatoes. 
Scoop  out  the  pulp  and  mix  it  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
cold  cooked  rice,  macaroni  or  bread  crumbs.  Add  season- 
ing of  salt,  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Refill 
tomato  shells,  replace  covers  and  bake  yi  hour.  A  table- 
spoon or  more  of  finely  chopped  ham  adds  variety  to  this 
dish. 

Boiled  Cabbage 

Allow  cabbage  to  soak  in  cold  water  for  at  least  half  an 
hour  before  cooking.  Place  in  rapidly  boiling  water  to 
which  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  have  been  added.    Boil  in  an 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [151] 

uncovered  saucepan  about  25  minutes.  The  cabbage 
should  be  white  and  thoroughly  cooked  in  that  time. 
Longer  cooking  will  cause  it  to  be  tough  and  indigestible. 
Drain  and  serve  plain  or  with  White,  Hollandaise  or 
Drawn  Butter  sauce. 

Celery  in  White  Sauce 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  celery  stalks  in  1-inch  pieces;  cook 
20  minutes  or  until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water;  drain,  and 
to  2  cups  of  celery  add  1  cup  of  white  sauce.  This  is  a 
most  satisfactory  way  of  using  the  outer  stalks  of  celery. 

Creamed  Carrots 

Cut  carrots,  after  scraping  into  slices;  let  boil  in  boiling 
water  until  tender;  drain,  and  add  to  1  cupful  of  well- 
seasoned  white  sauce. 

Canned  Vegetables 

Open  and  remove  from  can  at  once.  Drain  ofF  all  liquid 
with  the  exception  of  corn  and  tomatoes  and  let  stand  an 
hour  or  more  in  fresh  cold  water.  As  the  vegetables  have 
already  been  cooked  they  only  require  reheating  and 
seasoning.  A  double  boiler  will  be  found  the  most  satis- 
factory method  for  reheating.  It  requires  about  15  min- 
utes to  heat  thoroughly.  A  bit  of  butter  and  salt  are 
added  when  the  vegetables  are  put  in  the  boiler.  Heated 
in  this  manner  the  vegetables  will  not  require  water  and 
there  will  be  no  danger  of  burning,  as  is  easily  the  case  with 
corn.    Milk  or  cream  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Stuffed  Vegetables 

Onions,  green  peppers,  tomatoes  and  eggplant  are  cooked 
in  this  manner:  Scald  the  vegetables  a  few  minutes,  then 
place  in  cold  water  and  remove  the  peel  of  the  tomatoes 
or  onions,  and  rub  off  the  skins  of  green  peppers  and  egg 
plants  with  a  cloth.  The  centers  are  removed  and  the 
cavities  filled  with  a  stuffing  made  of  seasoned  bread 
crumbs  mixed  with  a  little  melted  butter,  or  the  portion 
removed  may  be  chopped  fine  and  added  to  the  crumbs. 
Place  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.    Serve  plain  or  with  a  sauce. 


[152]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Vegetables  au  Gratin 

Left-over  vegetables  are  usually  used,  and  almost  any 
variety  may  be  prepared  in  this  manner:  Cut  vegetables 
into  cubes  or  slices.  Make  a  white  sauce;  butter  a  baking 
dish  and  arrange  a  layer  of  vegetables  in  it,  season,  then 
add  a  layer  of  white  sauce.  Repeat  until  dish  is  filled. 
Cover  the  top  with  a  layer  of  soft  crumbs  moistened  with 
melted  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cheese  may  be 
added  to  the  white  sauce. 

Scalloped  Vegetables 

This  is  also  an  excellent  way  to  use  left-over  vegetables. 
Cut  vegetables  in  slices  or  cubes.  Butter  a  baking  dish, 
arrange  a  layer  of  vegetables,  season,  then  add  a  layer  of 
soft  crumbs,  dotted  over  with  a  little  butter.  Repeat 
until  dish  is  filled,  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  nicely  browned. 

Boiled  Potatoes  for  Mashing 

Wash  potatoes  with  a  small  brush  and  peel  as  thin  as 
possible,  for  much  of  the  mineral  salts  lie  next  to  the  skin. 
Place  in  rapidly  boiling  water  and  cook  until  they  may  be 
pierced  with  a  fork.  Drain  and  shake  them  in  the  saucepan 
for  a  few  moments  to  make  them  mealy.  Mash  well,  being 
sure  there  are  no  lumps,  and  add  butter  and  salt  in  pro- 
portion to  the  number  of  potatoes.  Beat  well,  adding 
gradually  enough  scalded  milk  to  make  them  creamy,  and 
continue  to  beat  until  white  and  light.  A  potato  ricer  can 
be  used  instead  of  mashing  them,  then  seasonings  and 
milk  can  be  added,  and  the  potatoes  beaten  until  light. 

Baked  Potatoes 

Potatoes  should  be  of  uniform  size.  Wash  well  and  place 
in  a  hot  oven  for  45  minutes,  when  they  should  be  mellow 
when  pressed  between  the  fingers.  If  skins  are  desired  soft, 
rub  each  potato  with  butter  or  substitute  before  baking. 
When  baked  remove  at  once  from  the  oven;  press  between 
the  hands  until  the  skins  breaks,  or  prick  with  a  fork  to 
release  the  steam;  this  will  prevent  the  potato  from 
becoming  soggy. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [153] 

Steamed  Potatoes 

Wash  potatoes  well.  Do  not  remove  skins.  Place  in  a 
steamer  over  boiling  water,  cover  closely  and  cook  for 
about  45  minutes,  or  until  potatoes  are  tender. 

Potato  Puffs 

1  teaspoon  salt.  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

2  cups  of  hot  mashed  potatoes.       1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  par- 
1  egg  yolk.  sley. 

Shape  mashed  potatoes  into  small  balls  and  place  on  a 
greased  baking  pan.  Beat  egg  yolk,  add  butter  and  brush 
the  potato  balls  with  the  mixture.  Sprinkle  with  parsley 
and  set  in  a  hot  oven  to  brown. 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Wash  and  peel  potatoes.  Cut  into  thin,  lengthwise 
strips  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  an  hour  or  more.  Drain, 
dry  on  a  cloth  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Heat  fat  until  a  piece 
of  bread  will  brown  in  1>^  minutes.  Have  kettle  half 
full  of  the  fat.  Do  not  add  many  potatoes  at  a  time.  Drain 
on  soft  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Test  the  fat  each 
time  before  fresh  potatoes  are  added. 

Potato  Balis 

Wash  and  peel  potatoes  and  cut  into  balls  with  a  French 
vegetable  cutter.  Cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender  but 
not  broken.     Drain,  roll  in  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

Ducliess  Potatoes 

To  3  cups  of  hot  riced  or  mashed  potatoes  add  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  egg  slightly 
beaten.  Mix  well,  beating  until  light.  Put  through  a 
pastry  bag  with  a  star  tube  or  shape  into  pyramids  with 
a  spoon.  Brush  over  with  beaten  egg  (yolk  only  preferred) 
and  brown  in  a  rather  hot  oven. 

Franconia  Potatoes 

Peel  and  prepare  as  for  boiled  potatoes;  parboil  10 
minutes,  drain  and  either  place  in  pan  with  roast  beef, 


[154]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

basting  often  with  fat  in  the  pan,  or  cook  in  a  heavy  frying 
pan  with  plenty  of  fat.  Cover  closely.  Turn  often  so  that 
potatoes  may  be  a  deep  golden  brown. 

Potatoes  en  Casserole 

Wash  and  peel  potatoes.  Cut  into  quarters  crosswise. 
Place  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  add  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  for  5  medium  sized  potatoes  Cover 
closely  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes. 

Fried  Summer  Squash 

Pare  and  slice  the  squash.  Beat  1  egg,  add  2  tablespoons 
of  water  or  milk  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  the 
slices  of  squash  into  the  egg  mixture,  then  into  fine  dry 
bread  crumbs  or  flour.  Heat  a  heavy  frying  pan,  add  short- 
ening and  when  hot  add  the  slices  of  squash,  cooking  until 
a  golden  brown  on  each  side. 

French  Fried  Onions 

Peel  and  slice  onions  very  thin,  cutting  cross-wise.  Soak 
in  milk  for  about  1  hour  then  drain  and  dredge  with  flour. 
Have  fat  heated  until  a  piece  of  bread  will  turn  a  golden 
brown  in  1^  minutes.  Drain  on  soft  paper.  Further 
information  regarding  fat  will  be  found  under  deep  fat 
frying. 

Green  Com 

Silk  should  be  brown  and  sweet  and  juicy,  milk  should 
flow  from  the  kernels  when  pricked  with  a  fork.  Corn  is 
easily  spoiled  by  overcooking.  Have  a  quantity  of  rapidly 
boiling  unsalted  water;  add  the  ears  of  corn  a  few  at  a 
time  so  as  not  to  reduce  the  temperature  of  the  water. 
Fresh  corn  should  cook  in  about  10  minutes.  Cooking  in 
salted  water  hardens  and  wrinkles  corn. 

Kohl  Rabi 

Kohl  rabi  is  a  variety  of  cabbage,  but  the  flavor  and 
nutriment  are  stored  mainly  in  the  stem;  this  looks  some- 
what like  a  turnip  and  grows  just  above  the  ground.  It 
should  be  used  when  young  and  tender  or  when  it  is  not 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [155] 

more  than  3  inches  in  diameter.  When  old  it  is  tough  and 
fibrous.  To  boil,  wash  and  peel  and  cut  in  cubes  or  slices. 
Add  to  boiling  water  and  cook  in  an  uncovered  saucepan 
until  tender,  about  30  minutes.  Drain  and  season  with 
salt  and  butter. 

Escalloped  Potatoes 

3  cups  sliced  raw  potatoes.  2  cups  of  scalded  milk. 

3  tablespoons  flour.  Salt. 

4  tablespoonfuls     butter     or  Pepper, 
substitute. 

Grease  a  baking  dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes; 
sprinkle  with  1  tablcspoonful  of  flour,  3^  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  little  pepper,  and  dot  with  butter  or  substitute. 
Repeat  with  a  second  layer  of  potatoes  and  so  on  until  all 
are  used,  and  then  pour  over  the  hot  milk,  until  it  barely 
shows  through  the  potato  slices.  Cover  and  bake  an  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  potatoes  become  brown. 

Escalloped  Potatoes  with  Bacon 

Prepare  escalloped  potatoes  according  to  the  preceding 
recipe,  omitting  the  fat.  Cut  the  rind  from  6  slices  of 
bacon  and  let  bacon  stand  5  minutes  in  boiling  water. 
Drain,  then  place  the  bacon  strips  over  the  potatoes  20 
minutes  before  the  latter  are  cooked.  The  bacon  fat  will 
drain  over  the  potatoes. 

Potatoes  in  the  Half  Shell 

Select  smooth,  medium  sized  potatoes,  wash  and  bake. 
Remove  from  oven.  Cut  in  halves,  scoop  out  inside,  mash. 
For  6  potatoes  use  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  3  tablespoon- 
fulls  hot  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  thoroughly,  refill 
shells  and  bake  5  to  10  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Grated  cheese 
may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  and  allowed  to  melt. 

Stufifed  Potatoes  with  Ham 

Prepare  potatoes  as  for  half  shell.  To  the  mashed  po- 
tatoes add  y2  cup  of  minced  ham  or  other  meat.  Beat 
well,  return  to  shells,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg  and  brown 
in  a  hot  oven.    A  good  luncheon  dish. 


[156]  MRS.   DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Potato  Pancakes 

One  cup  grated  raw  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  raw  onion,  1  egg,  %  cupful  flour,  yi  teaspoonful 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  pepper.  Cook 
on  a  hot  greased  griddle  like  pancakes. 

Potatoes  Baked  with  Sausage 

Select  large  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Pare,  remove 
centers  lengthwise  with  an  apple  corer.  Put  a  small 
sausage  in  each  cavity.  Place  in  a  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  from  30  to  45  minutes  according  to  the  size.  Melt  2 
tablespoons  of  shortening  and  baste  potatoes  frequently. 
Centers  of  potatoes  may  be  used  for  mashed  potatoes.  A 
nice  luncheon  dish. 

Glazed  Potatoes 

Roll  small  boiled  potatoes  in  slightly  beaten  yolk  of  egg. 
Set  in  a  greased  pan  and  bake  until  a  golden  brown. 

Potatoes  O'Brien 

Use  cooked  potatoes,  cut  in  thin  slices  or  cubes;  place 
a  layer  of  potatoes  in  a  buttered  baking  dish;  add  a  layer 
of  white  sauce,  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese  and  1  table- 
spoon shredded  pimentos;  continue  in  layers  until  dish 
is  filled,  having  a  layer  of  fine  buttered  crumbs  on  top. 
Bake  in  a  medium  oven  until  brown  on  top. 

Cottage  Pie 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking  dish  with  hot 
mashed  potatoes,  add  a  thick  layer  of  cooked  meat, 
chopped  or  cut  in  small  pieces  and  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  moistened 
with  some  of  the  gravy.  Cover  with  a  thin  layer  of 
mashed  potatoes  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  long  enough  to 
heat  through. 

Potato  Souffle 

Beat  until  light  2  cupfuls  hot  mashed  potatoes.  Mix 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter  with  >^  cup  hot  milk,  then  add  to 
potatoes.    Stir  in  well  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  season  with 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [157] 

salt  and  pepper.  Stir  until  very  creamy,  then  fold  in 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pile  lightly  in  a  but- 
tered baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  nicely 
browned. 

Creamed  Potatoes  with  Eggs 

3  cups  cold  diced  potatoes.  4  hard-cooked  eggs. 

2  cups  white  sauce.  Salt  and  pepper  to  season. 

Add  diced  potatoes  and  chopped  whites  of  hard-cooked 
eggs  to  white  sauce  and  reheat.  Turn  into  serving  dish. 
Rub  yolks  through  a  sieve;  sprinkle  over  the  top. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Melt  2  tablespoons  shortening:  add  1  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  onion.  When  onion  is  yellow,  add  2  cups  cooked 
potatoes  cut  in  cubes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cook 
until  potatoes  are  heated  through  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

Quick  Creamed  Potatoes 

2  cups  cold  sliced  potatoes.  Vi  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  Pepper. 

V/i  cups  milk.  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 

Slice  potatoes,  dredge  with  flour,  tossing  so  each  slice 
is  partly  coated.  Put  in  a  saucepan;  add  milk;  cook  slowly, 
stirring  mixture  or  gently  shaking  saucepan  until  all  is 
creamy;  add  seasoning;  sprinkle  with  parsley  and  serve. 


Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash  potatoes.  Drop  in  boiling  water  to  cover  and  cook 
until  tender  about  30  minutes,  constantly  boiling. 

Steamed  Sweet  Potatoes 

W^ash  potatoes.  Place  in  steamer  over  boiling  water 
and  steam  until  tender  about  45  minutes  for  medium 
sized  potatoes. 


[158]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash  and  peel  potatoes.  Plunge  into  boiling  water  and 
cook  until  tender.  Drain,  set  back  on  stove  in  a  warm 
place  to  dry  a  few  minutes,  then  mash  or  press  through 
a  potato  ricer.  For  5  medium  sized  potatoes  allow  3^  cup 
of  hot  milk;  add  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar  to  the  hot  milk.  Add  gradually  to  the  mashed 
sweet  potatoes  and  beat  until  very  light. 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash  and  cook  potatoes  in  boiling  water  until  tender. 
Drain,  peel  and  cut  in  two,  lengthwise,  arrange  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish.  Make  a  syrup  of  ^  cup  of  sugar, 
}4,  cup  of  hot  water  and  3  tablespoons  of  butter.  Pour 
over  potatoes  and  bake  in  a  medium  oven  until  potatoes 
are  brown  about  30  minutes.     Baste  frequently. 

Caramel  Sweet  Potatoes 

Boil  sweet  potatoes,  cool  and  remove  skins.  Cut  in 
slices.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes, 
sprinkle  with  brown  sugar,  a  little  salt,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter  cut  in  bits;  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  add  another  layer 
of  potatoes;  season  as  directed  above  and  continue  until 
potatoes  have  all  been  used.  Cover  with  milk  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  brown.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to 
let  the  sugar  burn. 

Sweet  Potato  Cones 

3  cups  mashed  sweet  potatoes.       1  tablespoon  butter. 

1  egg.  2  teaspoons  brown  sugar. 

1  egg  yolk.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Combine  ingredients,  heat  until  creamy;  let  cool,  shape, 
roll  in  slightly  beaten  white  of  egg,  then  in  cracker  or  fine 
bread  crumbs.  Put  in  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  brown  or  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Sweet  Potato  Glace 

Boil  or  steam  sweet  potatoes  until  tender.  Peel  and  cut 
in  thick  slices  lengthwise.  Place  in  a  buttered  pan,  cover 
with  bits  of  butter,  a  thick  sprinkling  of  brown  sugar  and 
bake  until  a  rich  brown. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [159 


Savory  Sauces 


To  make  a  really  good  sauce  is  considered  an  art  in  itself 
and  one  which  has  not  always  been  given  the  careful  consid- 
eration it  deserves.  Many  common-place  and  otherwise 
hopeless  dishes  may  be  transformed  and  made  most  ap- 
petizing when  served  with  a  well-made  sauce.  If  given  care 
a  smooth  creamy,  well-cooked  sauce  is  not  difficult  to  pre- 
pare, and  may  be  plain  or  quite  elaborate,  as  desired. 
However,  it  must  be  free  from  all  lumps  and  thoroughly 
cooked  and  the  seasoning  used  should  be  suitable  for  the 
food  the  sauce  is  to  be  served  with. 

Sauces  made  with  milk  are  economical,  for  they  supply 
nutriment  and  increase  the  value  of  the  food  with  which 
they  are  served.  In  using  left-overs  offish,  meat  and  vege- 
tables it  is  almost  necessary  to  use  a  well-seasoned  sauce. 

A  plain  white  sauce  is  perhaps  the  most  useful  adjunct 
to  good  cooking  and  the  foundation  recipe  may  be  varied  in 
many  appetizing  ways  by  the  addition  of  other  ingredients. 
This  white  sauce  is  made  of  a  different  thickness,  according 
to  how  it  is  to  be  used.  For  creamed  soups  it  is  quite 
thin,  for  croquettes  very  thick,  and  for  the  usual  creamed 
dishes  of  a  medium  thickness.  The  medium  sauce  is  made 
by  using  2  tablespoons  (level)  of  butter  or  butter  substitute, 
2  tablespoons  of  flour  to  each  half-pint  measuring  cup  of 
cold  liquid,  which  may  be  water,  milk,  thin  cream  or  white 
orbrown  stock,  depending  upon  what  kind  of  sauce  you  wish. 
With  these  measurements  in  mind  you  can  prepare  any 
quantity  of  sauce  desired. 

There  are  several  approved  methods  of  preparation,  but 
the  one  given  will  be  found  very  easy  and  most  satis- 
factory if  the  directions  are  carefully  followed.  Put  the 
butter  or  butter  substitute  in  a  saucepan  over  a  low  fire 
and  melt,  but  do  not  brown;  when  fat  is  melted  remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  flour,  stirring  until  smooth  and  well 
blended;  return  to  the  fire  and  cook  the  mixture  until  it 
bubbles  or  becomes  frothy,  then  add  the  cold  milk  gradu- 
ally, stirring  until  boiling  point  is  reached  and  sauce  thick- 
ens.   Add  seasoning. 

If  it  is  necessary  to  keep  this  sauce  hot  for  any  length 


[160]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

of  time,  set  in  a  dish  of  hot  water,  add  a  few  small  pieces  of 
butter  and  cover.  This  will  prevent  a  crust  from  forming 
on  top.  Do  not  boil  after  the  sauce  becomes  creamy  and 
thick  or  it  may  separate  and  become  oily.  If  this  should 
happen,  add  1  tablespoon  of  cold  liquid  for  each  cup  of 
sauce,  place  over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  the 
boiling  point  is  reached  again. 

The  secret  of  good  white  sauce  is  in  cooking  he  flour 
until  the  starch  grains  burst;  this  removes  the  raw, 
pasty,  unpleasant  taste  one  so  often  finds  in  undercooked 
sauces.  If  the  liquid  is  added  gradually  and  stirred  con- 
stantly there  will  be  no  difficulty  in  keeping  the  sauce 
smooth. 

A  brown  sauce  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  allowing  the 
fat  to  brown  before  adding  the  flour,  then  cooking  these 
two  ingredients  together  until  brown,  using  a  dark  stock 
or  water  for  the  liquid.  The  best  results  are  obtained  if 
all  the  seasonings  are  added  before  the  sauce  is  completely 
cooked. 

The  more  delicate  sauces  are  thickened  with  the  yolks 
of  eggs  and  a  quantity  of  butter.  These  sauces  require 
considerable  skill  in  preparation. 

For  every-day  cooking  the  plain  sauce  may  easily  be 
varied  to  form  almost  any  sauce  desired. 

Catsup,  Chili  sauce,  Worcestershire  sauce,  Kitchen 
Bouquet,  whole  cloves,  grated  onion,  etc.,  all  give  a  variety 
of  flavorings. 

Stock  of  some  type  can  be  used  in  place  of  milk.  The 
thickness  of  the  sauce  is  governed  by  taste.  One  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  shortening  to  each  cupful  of  liquid 
gives  a  thin  sauce.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  each  give  a 
medium  sauce. 


Foundation  Medium  White  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  1  cup  cold  milk, 

substitute.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  White  pepper  to  taste. 

Melt  shortening,  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth;  cook  until 


MRS.    DE   CtRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [161] 

frothy,  then  add  cold  milk  and  cook  until  creamy,  add 
seasonings. 

This  sauce  is  used  for  all  plain  creamed  dishes  such  as 
vegetables,  fish,  meat  and  toast. 

Cream  Sauce 

Follow  white  sauce  recipe,  using  thin  cream  or  half 
cream  and  half  milk. 

To  be  used  when  a  richer  sauce  is  desired. 

Celery  Sauce 

To  each  cup  of  liquid  allow  yi  cup  of  chopped  celery. 
Cook  celery  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  In  making 
the  white  sauce  use  yi  cup  of  water  in  which  celery  was 
cooked  and  yi  cup  of  milk.  When  sauce  is  cooked  add 
seasoning  and  celery.    To  be  served  with  fish  or  meat. 

Cheese  Sauce 

Follow  the  white  sauce  recipe.  For  each  cup  of  tauce 
add  }/2  cup  of  grated  cheese.  Season  with  paprika, 
cayenne,  salt  and  Yi  teaspoon  of  mustard,  which  should  be 
blended  with  the  flour  to  prevent  lumping.  This  is  a  very 
nice  sauce  to  serve  in  place  of  Welsh  rarebit. 

Onion  Sauce 

Follow  white  sauce  recipe.  Slice  1  small  onion  and  cook 
in  boiling  water  until  tender.  Press  through  a  sieve  and 
add  to  the  white  sauce. 

Egg  Sauce  ' 

Follow  white  sauce  recipe.  For  each  cup  of  sauce  add 
the  finely  chopped  white  of  a  hard-cooked  egg.  Mash  the 
yolk  and  add  to  the  sauce,  which  will  give  a  golden  color. 
Serve  this  sauce  with  boiled  fish. 

Allemande  Sauce 

Use  white  sauce  recipe.  To  each  cup  of  sauce  add  1  well- 
beaten  egg  and  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice.  The  hot 
sauce  should  be  added  to  the  egg,  then  returned  to  the  fire 


[162)  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

and  cooked  1  minute.  Do  not  add  lemon  juice  until  ready 
to  serve.  If  the  lemon  juice  is  allowed  to  cool  with  the 
sauce  it  will  cause  it  to  curdle. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce 

Follow  white  sauce  recipe,  using  water  instead  of  milk 
for  the  liquid,  and  season  with  a  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice. 
This  sauce  is  nice  for  vegetables,  particularly  asparagus. 

Hot  Tartare  Sauce 

To  each  Yi  cup  of  hot  white  sauce  add  ]/^  cup  of  mayon- 
naise, 1  teaspoon  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  each  of  chopped 
olives  and  sour  pickles,  and  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice. 
Serve  with  any  fried  fish. 

Bechamel  Sauce 

Follow  white  sauce  recipe.  For  each  cup  of  sauce  add 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  well  beaten.  For  seasoning  use  1  tea- 
spoon of  grated  onion  and  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  a  little 
celery  salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  bay  leaf.  Add  these  to  the 
sauce  when  you  add  the  cold  milk.  Remove  the  bay  leaf 
before  serving.  Do  not  boil  after  eggs  have  been  added  or 
the  mixture  will  curdle.  This  sauce  is  suitable  for  vege- 
tables. 

Poulette  Sauce 

Follow  white  sauce  recipe,  using  ^  cup  of  cream  and 
^  cup  of  chicken  stock,  or  to  1  cup  of  white  sauce  add  yi 
cup  of  cream.  When  boiling  point  is  reached  pour  the 
sauce  over  2  egg  yolks,  well  beaten,  and  cook  1  minute. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice 
and  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Serve  over  diced  chicken, 
crab,  lobster,  sweetbreads  or  oysters. 

Caper  Sauce 

Follow  white  sauce  recipe.  Add  to  each  cup  of  sauce  2 
tablespoons  of  capers;  or  the  drawn  butter  sauce  may  be 
used  and  capers  added.  This  sauce  is  used  with  boiled 
mutton. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [163] 

Cream  Curry  Sauce 

Follow  white  sauce  recipe.  To  each  cup  of  sauce  allow  2 
teaspoons  of  curry  powder,  which  should  be  blended  with 
the  flour  to  prevent  lumping.  When  cooked  add  2  tea- 
spoons of  onion  juice.  To  be  used  over  reheated  mutton 
or  lamb. 

Horseradish  Sauce 

]/i  cup  grated  horseradish.  1  tablespoon  vinegar. 

J^  cup  soft  bread  crumbs.  J^  teaspoon  paprika. 

J^  teaspoon  salt.  J^  cup  of  white  sauce. 

Make  the  white  sauce  and  add  remaining  ingredients. 

Bread  Sauce 

(For  Game  or  Fowl) 

IJ^  cups  milk.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

%  cup  bread  crumbs.  Pepper. 

1  small  onion.  2  cloves. 
Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Put  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  onion  stuck  with  cloves 
and  half  of  the  bread  crumbs.  Cook  20  minutes;  remove 
onion,  add  seasonings  and  butter  and  remainder  of 
crumbs.     Serve  at  once. 

Foundation  Brown  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  of  shortening.  1  tablespoon  minced  onion. 

2  tablespoons  fiour.  1  cupful  of  stock. 
Yi  teaspoon  salt.  Pepper. 

Melt  shortening,  add  onion  and  cook  until  a  golden 
brown,  then  add  flour,  stir  until  well  mixed  and  brown; 
then  add  stock  and  stir  until  creamy.  If  stock  is  not  ob- 
tainable add  1  bouillon  cube  to  a  cupful  of  hot  water  or 
add  1  teaspoonful  of  kitchen  bouquet  to  a  cupful  of  hot 
water. 

Piquante  Sauce 

To  1  cupful  of  brown  sauce  add  2  tablespoons  of  finely 
chopped  sour  pickle§  and  1  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce. 


[164]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Hot  Mustard  Sauce 

J'^   cup  of  medium  white  or      2  teaspoons  of  prepared  English 

brown  sauce.  mustard. 

1  teaspoon  vinegar.  1  teaspoon  grated  onion. 

1  tablespoon  prepared  French 

mustard  or 

Prepare  the  foundation  sauce  and  add  remaining  in- 
gredients. 

Cold  Mustard  Sauce 

To  yi  cupful  of  thick  mayonnaise  add  1  tablespoon  of 
prepared  French  Mustard.  To  serve  with  cold  asparagus, 
artichokes,  etc. 

Paprika  Sauce 

1  cup  medium  white  sauce.  1  teaspoon  paprika. 

1  tablespoon  grated  onion. 

Add  grated  onion  and  paprika  to  the  melted  shortening 
before  adding  the  flour  when  preparing  the  white  sauce. 
Proceed  as  for  white  sauce. 

Mint  Sauce 

6  mint  leaves.  \i  teaspoon  salt. 

J^  cup  boiling  water.  }4.  teaspoon  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  vinegar.  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

Wash  mint  leaves  and  chop  as  fine  as  possible.  Add  boil- 
ing water,  sugar  and  salt.  Cover  and  let  stand  about  20 
minutes.  Add  vinegar  and  pepper.  To  be  served  with 
lamb  or  mutton. 

FISH  SAUCES 
Maitre  d 'Hotel  Butter 

Beat  yi  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  and 
very  slowly  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice;  season  with  % 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  1  teaspoon  of 
chopped  parsley.     Spread  on  the  hot  fish. 

Anchovy  Sauce 

Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
mix  until  smooth,  cook  until  frothy,  then  add  y^  cup  cold 
milk  or  fish  stock.  Stir  until  thick  and  add  1  tablespoon 
of  anchovy  paste. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK  [165] 

Mock  Hollandaise  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  egg  yolk,  well  beaten. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  of  milk  or  fish  stock.  K  teaspoon  salt. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  mix  well,  cook  until  frothy,  then 
add  cold  milk  and  cook  until  smooth.  Add  beaten  yolk 
diluted  with  some  of  the  sauce;  season  and  add  lemon 
juice  very  slowly,  and  take  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  break 
into  bits  and  add  gradually,  beating  well. 


Sauce  Tartare 

To  yi  cup  of  thick  mayonnaise  add  1  teaspoon  of  onion 
juice  and  3  sour  pickles,  chopped  fine.  Additional  flavor- 
ing may  be  added  by  using  chopped  olives  and  capers. 


Shrimp  or  Oyster  Sauce 

1  cup  of  medium  white  sauce.       1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 
H   cup  of  shrunps  or  small 
oysters. 

Prepare  sauce  and  just  before  serving  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  shrimps. 

Meuniere  Sauce 

Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  cook  over  a  low  fire 
until  a  golden  brown.  The  butter  must  be  watched  con- 
stantly as  it  bubbles  and  will  boil  over  if  sauce  pan  is  small, 
and  if  the  butter  bums  it  is  very  indigestible.  To  be 
served  over  broiled  or  pan  fried  fish. 


SWEET  SAUCES 
Marshmallow  Sauce 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  6  to  8  marshmallows. 

y2  cup  boiling  water.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  5  minutes  after  boiling  com- 
mences. Do  not  stir  while  cooking.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  marshmallows  and  beat  until  melted;  add  vanilla. 


[166]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Saboyon  Sauce 

2  egg  yolks.  3^  cup  orange  juice. 
M  cup  sugar. 

Beat  well  and  cook  in  double  boiler.  Stir  constantly 
and  remove  from  boiler  as  soon  as  mixture  becomes  creamy. 

Hard  Sauce 

One-third  cup  butter  beaten  until  creamy,  %  cup  con- 
fectioners' sugar.  Add  sugar  gradually,  beating  well. 
Flavor  with  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  other  flavoring.  Sprinkle 
with  nutmeg. 

Foamy  Sauce 

To  Hard  Sauce  add  3^  cup  boiling  water  and  stir  until 
sauce  is  melted,  then  fold  in  1  well  beaten  egg  white;  flavor. 

Hot  Chocolate  Sauce 

}/2  cup  sugar.  1  tablespoon  of  butter. 

3  tablespoons  ground  chocolate.       yi  cup  of  hot  water. 

Cook  about  15  minutes,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Can 
be  used  hot  or  cold. 

Sultana  Chocolate  Sauce 

To  the  hot  chocolate  sauce  add  ^  cupful  of  seedless 
raisins. 

Caramel  Sauce 

Yi  cup  sugar.  Y^  cup  water. 

Melt  dry  sugar  over  a  low  fire  until  it  becomes  a  golden 
syrup,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Add  water  and  boil  10 
minutes.  Then  mix  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  table- 
spoon flour  and  add  to  mixture.    Cook  until  thick. 

Strawberry  Sauce 

Wash  a  cup  of  hulled  strawberries,  add  half  a  cup  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  nutmeg  and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place  until 
wanted.  Use  as  a  sauce  for  cottage  pudding,  corn  starch, 
blanc  mange,  tapioca  pudding,  any  form  of  gelatine  or 
pour  over  vanilla  ice  cream. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [167] 

Custard  Sauce 

1  cup  milk.  J^  cup  sugar. 

1  egg.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Heat  milk  in  double  boiler.  Beat  egg,  add  sugar  and 
pour  hot  milk  over  mixture.  Return  to  fire  and  cook,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  custard  is  slightly  thick  and  will  coat 
the  spoon.  Remove  from  fire,  pour  into  bowl,  and  when 
cool  add  flavoring. 

Apricot  Pudding  Sauce 

Add  yi  cup  of  mashed  strained  cooked  apricots  to  the 
hard  sauce. 

Orange  Sauce 

}/i  cup  butter.  K  orange,  juice  and  grated 

Yi  cup  powdered  sugar.  rind. 

Cream  butter  well,  add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  until 
creamy.  Then  add  grated  rind  and  juice  gradually,  beat- 
ing well. 

Vanilla  Sauce 

Yi  cup  sugar.  1  cup  of  boiling  water. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  tablespoon  butter. 
Pinch  of  salt.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  flour;  add  boiling  water  gradually, 
place  over  fire  and  boil  until  thick  or  until  flour  is  well 
cooked.  Remove  from  stove,  add  butter  and  vanilla. 
This  sauce  can  be  kept  warm  over  hot  water. 

Nutmeg  Sauce 

Follow  directions  for  vanilla  sauce  using  yi  teaspoonful 
of  grated  nutmeg  instead  of  vanilla. 

Fruit  Sauce 

Crush  berries  of  any  kind,  sweeten  and  let  stand  until 
sugar  is  dissolved. 


[168]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings 

While  the  food  value  of  a  green  salad  is  not  high,  the  salts 
they  contain  are  valuable  and  the  oil  used  in  the  various 
dressings  supply  the  nutriment,  making  them  a  wholesome 
food.  In  almost  any  climate  some  green  salad  vegetable 
may  be  obtained  all  the  year  round,  and  with  cooked  or 
canned  vegetables  an  acceptable  salad  can  always  be  made. 
There  are  certain  things  essential  for  a  good  salad.  First, 
it  should  be  cold;  if  a  green  salad,  it  must  be  crisp;  the 
dressing  ingredients  must  be  carefully  proportioned  and 
blended  so  the  salad  will  be  neither  oily  nor  acid,  and  the 
whole  well  mixed.  In  using  French  dressing  there  should  be 
just  sufficient  to  cover  the  vegetables  when  mixed,  and  none 
left  in  the  bottom  of  the  bowl  after  mixing. 

If  the  greens  are  prepared  several  hours  before  wanted 
they  may  be  placed  (after  drying)  in  a  tightly  covered  pail 
and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  needed,  when  they  will  be  very 
crisp,  fresh  and  cool.  Never  cut  up  lettuce,  but  break  the 
leaves,  if  necessary,  to  the  desired  size.  Dressing  should 
never  be  added  to  a  green  salad  until  time  for  serving, 
otherwise  the  salad  greens  will  become  wilted  and  lose  the 
desired  crispness.  Always  remove  the  skin  from  tomatoes. 
A  tomato  salad  is  quickly  prepared,  served  skin  and  all, 
but  the  skin  is  indigestible. 

An  easy  way  to  remove  the  skins  is  to  put  the  tomatoes  in 
a  basket  or  colander  and  plunge  them  into  boiling  (not 
just  hot)  water  and  let  them  remain  1  minute  only;  then 
plunge  into  cold  water.  The  skins  may  then  be  easily 
removed.  Set  aside  to  chill  before  slicing.  When  stuffing 
raw  tomatoes  for  salad,  remove  the  skin,  cut  a  slice  off  the 
stem  and  scoop  out  the  centers,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
invert  to  drain  and  chill.  Just  before  serving  fill  centers 
with  the  prepared  filling  and  set  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Another  method  but  not  so  quickly  accomplished,  is  to 
rub  each  tomato  over  the  surface  with  the  blunt  edge  of  a 
knife,  then  peel. 

Cooked  vegetables  for  salads  should  be  thoroughly 
drained  and  quite  cold  before  using.  Turn  artichokes  up- 
side down  so  that  all  the  moisture  will  be  drained  off. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [169] 

Cabbage  should  be  shredded  very  fine  with  a  sharp, 
long  knife  rather  than  chopped.  After  shredding  let  the 
cabbage  stand  in  cold  water  to  become  crisp  and  drain  well 
before  using. 

Peel  cucumbers  and  cut  off  a  thick  slice  from  each  end; 
soak  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  serve,  then  cut  in  thin 
slices.  Never  soak  cucumbers  in  salted  water,  for  then  they 
become  tough  and  wilted,  besides  increasing  their  indigesti- 
bility.  Green  peppers  should  be  scalded  for  about  5  min- 
utes, when  the  outside  skin  may  be  rubbed  off.  Cover  with 
cold  water  until  ready  to  use.  Parsley  should  be  kept  in  a 
glass  of  cold  water,  wetting  only  the  roots.  In  this  way  it 
will  keep  fresh  several  days. 

If  using  canned  vegetables,  such  as  peas,  lima  beans, 
asparagus  or  string  beans,  open  the  can  at  least  half  an 
hour  before  wanted  and  drain  off  all  the  liquid.  Cover  with 
cold  water  until  ready  to  use.  Treated  in  this  way  they 
will  taste  more  like  the  fresh  vegetable. 

When  making  a  salad  of  cooked  vegetables  it  will  be 
found  an  improvement  to  mix  with  a  French  dressing  and 
allow  to  stand  or  marinate  in  a  cool  place  about  an  hour 
before  serving.  With  a  green  salad  the  dressing  should 
never  be  added  until  time  to  serve,  as  the  dressing  causes 
green  vegetables  to  become  wilted. 

Meat  and  poultry  should  be  freed  from  skin  and  gristle 
and  cut  in  small  cubes.  Fish  should  have  all  the  bones 
and  skin  removed  and  pulled  apart  or  flaked  with  a  fork. 
All  left-over  vegetables,  fish  or  meat  can  be  utilized  in 
salads,  and  almost  all  combinations  of  cooked  or  green 
vegetables  make  a  palatable  one. 

A  combination  of  fruits  makes  a  pleasant  change  from 
the  plain  fruit  itself  and  offers  a  good  way  to  add  the  differ- 
ent helpful  salts  and  acids  into  the  system.  Containing 
iron,  tartrates,  gum,  pectin  and  fruit  sugars  and  other 
saline  qualities,  a  mixture  of  fruits  is  a  very  desirable 
dish.  Use  only  good,  firm  fruit  for  salads  and  either  fresh 
or  cooked  fruit  will  give  equally  good  results.  The  flavor 
of  a  fruit  salad  is  improved  by  using  lemon  juice  instead 
of  vinegar  in  the  dressing.  Almost  any  combination  of 
fruits  will  be  acceptable  for  a  salad. 


[170]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

The  requirements  for  a  good  salad  consists  in  having  all 
ingredients  cold,  the  greens  crisp  and  dry.  For  French 
dressing  select  a  good  oil — olive  oil  has  the  best  flavor.  Do 
not  use  too  much  dressing;  there  should  be  just  enough 
to  cover  each  bit  of  the  ingredients,  no  more.  Meat,  fish 
and  cooked  vegetable  salads  may  stand  an  hour  in  French 
dressing  before  serving.  This  is  called  a  marinade  and  will 
improve  the  flavor  of  the  salad.  When  ready  to  serve  pour 
over  any  desired  dressing  regardless  of  the  marinade. 
Much  of  the  flavor  of  all  salad  dressings  depends  upon  a 
good  quality  of  both  vinegar  and  oil. 

The  following  rules  govern  generally  in  regard  to  the 
serving  of  salads. 

1.  Vegetable  or  fruit  salads,  with  a  simple  dressing 
may  be  served  with  a  meat  course. 

2.  More  elaborate  fruit  and  vegetable  combinations 
should  accompany  light  meats  as  chicken,  fish,  tongue,  etc. 

3.  Meat  or  fish  salads  with  mayonnaise  or  boiled  dress- 
ing may  be  used  in  place  of  the  meat  course. 

4.  Never  repeat  in  a  salad  a  vegetable  used  in  a  previ- 
ous course. 

5.  Hard  cooked  eggs  combine  well  with  fowl,  fish  and 
vegetables. 

6.  Cream  cheese  combines  with  vegetables  and  nuts 
and  with  some  fruits,  pineapple  preferred. 

7.  Eggs,  cheese  and  nuts  should  not  be  used  in  salads 
to  accompany  a  meat  course. 

8.  Starchy  salads  should  not  be  served  when  the  menu 
contains  much  starchy  food. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [171] 

Different  Salad  Dressing  for  Each  Day  in 
the  Week 

A  French  or^Mayonnaise  dressing  is  more  often  used 
plain,  but  by  adding  various  flavorings,  can  be  greatly 
changed,  giving  variety  at  a  time  of  the  year  when  salad 
greens  are  limited.  Take  lettuce  which  we  always  have  in 
California.  This  popular  green  salad  vegetable  could  be 
served  many  days  in  succession  but  with  a  different  dress- 
ing for  each  day.  In  this  manner  variety  is  introduced 
and  the  family  will  not  tire  of  lettuce,  as  would  often  be 
the  case  were  the  same  dressing  used  each  meal.  There  is 
a  strong  appetite  appeal  in  variety  and  when  the  person 
who  plans  the  meals  realizes  this  she  will  have  learned  one 
of  the  most  valuable  lessons  in  menu  building. 

Salad  dressings  have  as  their  base,  acid,  oil  and  season- 
ings. Your  base  recipe  may  be  one  of  the  three  foundation 
formulae — French,  Mayonnaise  or  Cooked  dressing.  French 
dressing  or  variations  of  it  is  the  most  suitable  for  green 
salads  and  for  a  salad  served  with  a  heavy  meal.  It  is  less 
hearty  than  either  the  Mayonnaise  or  Cooked  dressing, 
and  will  be  relished  more  than  the  richer  dressings.  Cooked 
dressing  is  preferred  by  those  who  do  not  care  for  the  flavor 
of  oil.  This  dressing  admits  of  as  many  variations  as  a 
Mayonnaise  dressing.  It  is  a  very  convenient  salad  dress- 
ing for  it  can  be  prepared  in  a  quantity  and  kept  for  some 
time.  Mayonnaise  is  considered  by  many  somewhat  diffi- 
cult to  prepare.  Lack  of  success  might  be  traced  to  two 
things — haste  in  adding  the  oil,  and  not  having  the  ingredi- 
ents used  all  of  about  the  same  temperature. 

If  the  oil  is  cold  and  the  egg  and  acid  warm,  it  is  diflttcult 
to  make  the  egg  absorb  the  oil;  or  it  might  be  the  egg  was 
cold  and  the  oil  warm.  It  is  far  easier  to  have  all  ingredi- 
ents cold.  If  that  is  not  possible,  have  them  all  about 
the  same  temperature.  One  egg  yolk  will  only  absorb  one 
cupful  of  oil  and  remain  thick  and  firm.  If  more  than  that 
quantity  is  used,  the  dressing  may  separate;  if  not  at  once, 
it  will  do  so  after  standing  some  time. 

The  seasonings  and  a  teaspoon  of  acid  should  be  added 


[172]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

to  the  egg  yolk  and  the  whole  beaten  or  well  mixed  before 
any  oil  is  added.  Add  about  a  teaspoonful  of  oil,  then 
beat  well,  using  a  small  spoon  or  a  very  small  egg  beater. 
Always  use  a  small  bowl  for  making  mayonnaise,  so  there 
will  not  be  much  surface  at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  This 
enables  you  to  mix  the  ingredients  well.  Add  oil,  a  tea- 
spoonful  at  a  time,  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  As 
soon  as  this  dressing  has  once  become  thick,  the  oil  may  be 
added  in  larger  quantity,  if  it  is  beaten  well  or  until  ab- 
sorbed, between  each  addition  of  oil.  An  egg  beater  can 
be  used  and  the  dressing  made  very  quickly  after  it  has 
once  thickened.  If  more  acid  is  desired,  it  can  be  added 
during  the  mixing  or  at  the  last.  Adding  the  acid  to  the 
egg  yolk  before  the  oil  is  used,  lessens  the  liability  of  the 
mixture  to  curdle.  The  egg  beater  also  aids  in  keeping  the 
dressing  from  curdling,  as  the  larger  surface  over  which  the 
oil  is  spread  the  less  likelihood  of  separation.  One  point, 
most  important:  be  sure  all  the  oil  added  at  any  one  time 
is  entirely  absorbed  before  adding  more.  If,  after  all  these 
precautions,  the  dressing  should  curdle,  put  it  aside,  and 
begin  the  process  all  over  again  with  another  egg  yolk. 
As  soon  as  this  begins  to  thicken,  the  curdled  mixture  may 
be  added  gradually,  just  as  you  would  add  oil.  This 
should  remedy  the  trouble  and  prevent  waste.  A  double 
quantity  of  oil  can  be  used.  When  well  made  a  mayon- 
naise is  smooth,  thick  and  glossy  in  appearance.  Dressing 
made  with  these  proportions — 1  cupful  of  oil  to  each  yolk 
of  egg — will  keep  some  time  without  separating,  if  kept  in 
a  cool  place. 

Oil  is  the  main  ingredient  in  a  French  dressing,  and  if 
the  salad  is  to  be  perfect,  to  have  the  right  flavor,  a  good 
olive  oil  is  required.  Other  vegetable  oils  may  be  used  for 
mayonnaise  with  very  good  results,  but  French  dressing 
will  lack  flavor  if  made  of  an  inferior  oil.  Much  depends 
on  the  vinegar,  which  sould  be  pure  and  not  too  sharp. 
To  prepare  a  French  dressing,  put  all  the  ingredients  into 
a  small  glass  fruit  jar,  adjust  the  cover  and  shake  vigor- 
ously until  well  blended  and  thick.  A  perfect  emulsion 
will  result,  which  will  remain  thick  for  half  an  hour  or  more. 

Cooked  dressing  somewhat  resembles  mayonnaise  and 
usually  has   butter  added  to  supply  the  necessary    fat. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [173] 

Cooked  dressing  is  usually  served  to  persons  who  do  not 
enjoy  the  flavor  of  oil.  However,  oil  may  be  used,  as  the 
flavor  is  scarcely  perceptible  after  it  has  been  heated. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

1  cup  oil.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

3  teaspoons  vinegar  (about).  Yi  teaspoon  of  mustard. 

1  raw  egg  yolk.  Dash  of  pepper  or  paprika. 

It  is  essential  that  everything  for  a  mayonnaise  be  of 
the  same  temperature;  not  one  ingredient  very  cold  and 
the  other  very  warm.  Put  the  egg  yolk  in  a  small  bowl  and 
beat  until  creamy,  then  add  the  mustard,  salt,  pepper  and 
mix  until  smooth;  add  1  teaspoon  of  vinegar,  then  add  a 
few  drops  of  oil,  using  a  small  egg  beater;  add  oil  gradu- 
ally, beating  until  thick  between  each  addition  of  oil. 
This  can  be  accomplished  very  quickly  with  the  egg  beater. 
Add  remaining  vinegar  when  all  the  oil  has  been  used.  By 
adding  a  small  quantity  of  acid  to  the  egg  before  using 
any  oil  prevents  a  possibility  of  the  dressing  separating.  If 
the  dressing  is  not  to  be  used  at  once  add  I  tablespoonful  of 
hot  water  and  mix  well.  This  is  also  a  preventive  of 
separation.  This  dressing  is  a  base  for  many  appetizing 
combinations. 

Thousand  Island  Dressing 

1  cup  mayonnaise.  H  cup  chili  sauce. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  pimen-  2  tablespoons  of  French  dress- 

tos.  ing. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  green  Seasoning  of  paprika. 

pepper. 


Rich  Louis  Dressing 

1  cup  mayonnaise.  3^  cup  whipped  cream. 

yi  cup  chili  sauce.  Seasonings  of  salt  and  paprika. 

This  makes  a  rich  fish  cocktail  sauce  as  well  as  salad 
dressing. 

Chantilly  Dressing 

To  yi  cup  of  mayonnaise  add  1  tablespoon  of  grated 
horseradish  and  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice. 


[174]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Russian  Salad  Dressing 

}/2  cup  mayonnaise  dressing.  1  teaspoon  green  peppers, 
1  teaspoonful  pimentos  chopped  fine. 

chopped  fine.  3^  teaspoon  paprika. 

1  teaspoon  tarragon  vinegar.  \i  teaspoon  salt. 

K  cup  chili  sauce.  H  cup  olive  oil. 

To  the  mayonnaise  dressing  add  the  extra  ^/^  cup  of  oil, 
then  the  chili  sauce,  seasonings,  vinegar  and  chopped  pep- 
pers. 


FRENCH  DRESSING  AND  VARIATIONS 
French  Dressing 

3  tablespoons  oil.  M  teaspoon  pepper  or  paprika. 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  or  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  if 

lemon  juice.  desired. 
Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  small  fruit  jar,  adjust  cover 
and  shake  for  a  few  seconds,  when  the  ingredients  will  be 
well  mixed.    The  dressing  should  be  thick. 

French  Dressing  for  Fruit 

3  tablespoons  oil.  y%  teaspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar. 

Mix  in  a  glass  jar,  tightly  covered,  until  thick. 

Cream  Cheese  Dressing 

Mix  twice  the  quantity  of  French  dressing.  Take  ^  a 
cream  cheese  and  beat  until  creamy,  then  gradually  beat 
in  the  French  dressing.  Season  rather  highly  with  pap- 
rika and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 

French  Pepper  Dressing 

To  the  French  dressing  add  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire, 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [175] 

yi  teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  2 
tablespoons  mixed  green  pepper. 

Put  all  ingredients  in  a  covered  fruit  jar  and  shake  until 
thick.  Pour  over  any  green  or  cooked  vegetable  salad. 
If  curry  is  not  liked  it  may  be  omitted. 

Italian  Dressing 

Add  1  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup  to  the  French  dress- 
ing, then  mix  as  directed. 


Horseradish  Dressing 

Add   1  teaspoon  of  grated  horseradish  to  the  French 
dressing  and  mix  as  directed. 

Vinaigrette  Dressing 

Yi  cup  French  dressing.  Few  drops  onion  juice. 

2  capers,  chopped.  Yi  teaspoon  green  pepper , 

1  small  sour  pickle,  chopped.  chopped. 
}/i  teaspoon  parsley  chopped. 

This  sauce  is  used  on  asparagus,  stuffed  tomatoes  or 
fish  salad. 

Roquefort  Dressing 

Yi  cup  French  dressing.  Yi  teaspoon  paprika. 

2  tablespoons  mashed 
Roquefort  cheese. 

This  dressing  is  suitable  for  all  green  salads. 


Parisian  Dressing 

Yi,  cup  French  dressing.  1  teaspoon  green  peppers, 

3  stuffed  olives,  chopped  fine.  chopped. 

2  green  onions,  chopped  fine.  Little  Worchestershire  sauce. 

Mix  and  let  this  dressing  stand  about  an  hour  before 
serving. 


1761  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 


Plain  Louis  Dressing 

J^  cup  French  dressing.  Few  drops  onion  juice. 

}/i  cup  tomato  catsup. 
J^  teaspoon    Worcestershire 
sauce. 

This  dressing  is  suitable  for  shell  fish  salads,  such  as 
crab,  lobster  or  shrimp. 

Cream  Salad  Dressing 

1  cupful  of  cream   (sweet  or       }/s  teaspoon  pepper. 

sour).  J^  teaspoon  dry  mustard. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  1  to  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar. 

Whip  the  cream  until  thick.  Mix  all  the  other  ingredi- 
ents and  gradually  beat  into  the  cream.  The  amount  of 
vinegar  required  will  depend  upon  whether  the  cream  is 
sweet  or  sour.  This  dressing  is  relished  by  those  persons 
who  do  not  like  oil. 

Cooked  Dressing 

1  teaspoon  flour.  3^  cup  water. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  14,  cup  vinegar. 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard.  1  well  beaten  egg,  or 

]4:  teaspoon  paprika.  2  egg  yolks. 

1  teaspoon  sugar. 

Put  all  ingredients  in  a  double  boiler  or  over  hot  water; 
cook,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken, 
then  remove  from  stove  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
beating  well.  Set  aside  to  cool.  This  dressing,  sealed  and 
kept  in  a  cool  place  will  keep  a  long  time.  Any  of  the 
variations  of  a  mayonnaise  dressing  will  apply  to  the 
cooked  dressing  also. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing  (Sweet) 

One-half  cup  of  sugar  boiled  with  3^  cup  of  water  for  5 
minutes;  pour  on  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs;  cook  over 
hot  water  until  slightly  thickened,  stirring  constantly. 
When  cool  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [177] 

Pineapple  Salad  Dressing 

Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour; 
^  teaspoon  salt;  %  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  and  mix  well; 
cook  until  frothy,  then  add  1  cup  of  pineapple  juice,  and  1 
teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Pour  over  1  well  beaten  egg  or  2 
egg  yolks.  Cool.  A  half  cup  of  whipped  cream  may  be 
added.     Use  for  any  fruit  salad. 


1178]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Salads 

Pimento  and  Cheese  Salad 

Mix  cream  cheese  with  Mayonnaise  until  creamy.  Rinse 
canned  pimentos  in  cold  water;  drain  and  dry  on  a  cloth. 
Cut  the  tops  of  the  pimentos  in  points  and  fill  with  the 
cheese  and  trimmings  of  the  peppers  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Set  these  on  lettuce  leaves  and  finish  with  Mayonnaise 
above  the  cheese  and  around  the  pimentos  or  cut  the 
stuffed  pimentos  in  thin  slices  and  lay  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves.    Garnish  with  Mayonnaise. 

Waldorf  Salad 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  rather  sour  apples,  cut  them  in 
small  cubes  and  immediately  squeeze  over  them  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Add  an  equal  measure  of  crisp  inner  stalks  of 
celery,  cut  in  >^-inch  pieces.  Mix  the  apple  and  celery 
with  enough  Mayonnaise  dressing  to  moisten  and  sprinkle 
2  tablespoons  chopped  walnuts  over  the  top.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

Salad  of  Tongue  and  Spinach 

Cut  cold,  boiled  tongue  in  slices.  Press  spinach,  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice,  if  desired,  into  well- 
buttered  timbale  molds.  When  cold,  unmold  on  the  slices 
of  tongue,  set  a  spoonful  of  sauce  tartare  above  each  form 
of  spinach. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  No.  1 

Peel  the  required  number  of  tomatoes,  cut  a  slice  from 
the  stem  and  remove  enough  of  the  tomato  to  leave  a 
hollow  cup-shaped  receptacle.  Season  the  inside  of  the 
tomatoes  with  salt,  and  turn,  open  side  downward,  on  a 
plate.  Let  chill  until  ready  to  serve.  For  6  tomatoes 
have  about  1  cup  of  thin  slices  of  the  tender  inner  stalks  of 
celery  and  half  a  cup  of  anchovies,  wiped  free  of  oil  and  cut 
in  small  bits.  Mix  these  with  enough  Mayonnaise  to  hold 
them  together,  and  fill  the  tomatoes.  Set  an  anchovy 
above J:he  filling'in^each  tomato,  and  garnish  the  dish  with 
hearts^of  celery ^or  lettuce. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [179] 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  No.  2 

Peel  medium  sized  tomatoes,  scoop  out  the  centers, 
sprinkle  inside  lightly  with  salt  and  turn  upside  down  to 
drain  and  chill.  Take  the  inner  stalks  of  celery  and  stand 
in  cold  water  to  which  a  little  lemon  juice  has  been  added. 
Prepare  the  stuffing  by  cutting  celery  in  small  pieces,  add- 
ing some  of  the  tomato  taken  from  the  centers,  and  cut  in 
dice.  Mix  with  a  French  dressing  seasoned  with  a  little 
onion  juice.  Fill  tomatoes,  set  in  crisp  lettuce  leaf,  place  a 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on  top  and  serve. 


Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  No.  3 

Peel  tomatoes,  remove  centers,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
invert.  Make  a  stuffing  of  cup  chopped  celery,  y^  cup 
shrimps,  >^  cup  asparagus  tips;  mix  with  a  thick  Mayon- 
naise or  French  dressing;  fill  tomatoes;  garnish  with  sliced 
stuffed  olives.    Crab,  lobster  or  chicken  may  be  used. 


California  Salad 

Peel,  halve,  and  core  ripe,  juicy  pears  and,  if  desired,  cut 
the  halves  in  thin  slices  without  cutting  quite  through;  rub 
them  over  with  the  cut  side  of  a  lemon,  or  squeeze  upon 
each  piece  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  to  keep  them  from 
discoloring.  Set  a  ball  of  cream  cheese  in  the  cavity  in  the 
center  of  the  halves  of  pears;  set  these  on  lettuce  leaves 
and  pour  French  dressing  over  the  whole.  Canned  pears 
may  be  used. 

Cucumber-Pimento  Salad 

Pare  a  chilled  cucumber  and  cut  it  into  julienne  pieces 
(like  a  match,  but  shorter).  Remove  pimentos  from  a 
can,  rinse  in  cold  water,  dry  on  a  cloth  and  cut  one  in 
shreds,  the  same  size  and  shape  as  the  cucumbers.  Use 
y^  as  much  pimento  as  cucumber.  Dress  each  separately 
with  French  dressing,  adding  a  little  grated  or  scraped 
onion.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves  having  pimento  in  the 
center  surrounded  by  cucumber.    Serve  with  a  fish  course. 


[180]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Fruit  and  Celery  Salad 

Cut  canned  or  fresh  pineapple  in  strips;  cut  2  apples  in 
the  same  manner  and  squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  to  keep  them  from  discoloring.  Cut  heart  stalks  of 
celery  in  the  same  fashion  and  have  about  the  same  quan- 
tity of  each  ingredient.  Mix  with  enough  Mayonnaise  to 
hold  the  ingredients  together.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Orange  Salad 

Remove  peel  and  slice  oranges  very  thin.  For  each 
orange  allow  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  or  sliced  walnuts, 
make  a  French  dressing  with  lemon  juice  and  pour  over 
the  fruit  and  nuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  This  salad  is 
good  to  serve  with  game.  Very  attractive  served  in  cups 
made  from  red  apples. 

Combination  Fruit  Salad 

One  slice  pineapple,  half  banana,  half  orange,  6  straw- 
berries; use  this  quantity  for  each  service;  cut  the  pine- 
apple in  cubes,  slice  oranges  very  thin,  lengthwise;  slice 
bananas  and  cut  strawberries  in  halves;  mix  with  Mayon- 
naise that  has  been  made  without  mustard  and  adding  a 
little  whipped  cream,  or  the  beaten  white  of  egg. 

Orange  Jelly  Salad 

Dissolve  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered  gelatine  in  3^ 
cupful  of  cold  water,  then  add  1  cupful  of  strained  hot 
orange  juice  and  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Have 
ready  3^  cupful  of  chopped  nut  meats.  Peel  3  oranges, 
divide  into  sections  and  cut  each  section  in  half.  When 
the  jelly  is  ready  to  mold,  pour  a  little  into  wet  molds,  add 
some  nut  meats  and  orange  sections,  then  more  jelly  and 
so  on  until  the  molds  are  full.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn 
onto  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  top  with  a  spoonful  of  Mayon- 
naise. 

StufiEed  Beet  Salad 

Cut  the  centers  from  small,  tender,  cooked  beets  to  make 
thin,  neat  looking  cups.  For  each  cup,  chop  fine  2  olives 
and  half  a  stalk  of  tender  celery  (inner  stalks),  and  y^.  of 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [181] 

the  beet  cut  into  small  cubes,  mix  with  French  or  May- 
onnaise dressing,  seasoned  with  onion  juice,  and  use  to  fill 
the  cups.  Roll  a  small  floweret  of  cooked  cauliflower  in 
dressing  and  set  above  the  filling  in  the  cups.  Serve  on 
heart  leaves  of  lettuce  seasoned  with  French  dressing. 


Tomato  Jelly  Salad 

1  cup  tomato  puree.  M  sliced  onion. 

1  cup  hot  water.  2  tablespoons  gelatine  soaked 

1  bouillon  cube.  in  J^  cup  cold  water. 

Bit  of  bay  leaf.  2  tablespoons  vinegar. 

y2  teaspoon  salt. 

Simmer  first  6  ingredients  15  minutes,  remove  from  fire, 
add  soaked  gelatine  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Stir  until  quite 
thick  and  add  one  cup  of  asparagus  tips.  Turn  into  indi- 
vidual molds  and  chill.  Turn  out  to  serve,  garnish  with 
hearts  of  lettuce  and  Mayonnaise  dressing. 


Potato  Salad 

Boil  potatoes  without  paring;  then  remove  skins  and 
cut  in  cubes  or  slices;  make  a  French  dressing,  adding  1 
tablespoon  onion  juice;  pour  over  potatoes  and  let  stand 
an  hour  or  more;  when  ready  to  serve  arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  a  teaspoon  of  thick  mayonnaise  on  top.  Sprinkle 
the  Mayonnaise  with  capers  or  finely  chopped  hard  cooked 
eggs. 

Watermelon  Salad 

Have  watermelon  very  cold.  Cut  in  inch  cubes  or  scoop 
out  balls  from  the  melon  with  a  French  potato  cutter. 
Arrange  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  a  French  dressing. 

Macaroni  Salad 

Boil  1  cup  of  inch  length  macaroni  until  tender,  drain 
and  let  stand  in  cold  water  until  cool.  Drain  again.  Cut 
a  pimento  into  thin  strips  and  add  to  the  macaroni,  or  add 
sliced  stuffed  olives.  Pour  over  a  French  dressing  well 
seasoned  with  onion  juice.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


[182]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Stuffed  Celery 

Take  cream  cheese,  moisten  with  milk  or  cream  or  May- 
onnaise and  mix  until  smooth;  season  with  salt  and  pap- 
rika. Stuff  the  inner  white  stalks  of  celery  with  this 
mixture. 

To  be  passed  with  the  salad  course. 

Prune  and  Cottage  Cheese  Salad 

Remove  stones  from  cooked,  cold  prunes.  Fill  with 
cottage  cheese;  place  on  lettuce  leaves;  serve  with  thick 
Mayonnaise  dressing. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [183] 

Salad  Combinations  Which  May  Be  Used 
with  Mayonnaise  or  Cooked  Dressing 

1.  One  cup  diced  apples,  1  cup  celery  cut  in  small 
pieces,  ^  cup  walnuts.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  }4  lemon 
over  the  apples  to  prevent  their  turning  dark,  ^2  cup 
chopped  dates  may  replace  walnuts.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

2.  Equal  quantities  sliced  pineapple,  bananas  and 
canned  cherries.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

3.  Bananas  rolled  in  chopped  walnuts  and  served  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

4.  Equal  quantities  grapefruit  and  white  grapes. 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  walnuts  and  add  2  or  3  marsh- 
mallows  for  each  service. 

5.  Two  cups  cooked  salmon  or  tuna,  1  cup  celery  cut 
fine,  6  sour  pickles  chopped. 

6.  Stuffed  Tomatoes — Peel  tomatoes,  cut  a  slice  from 
the  stem  end  of  each  and  remove  the  centers.  Turn 
upside  down  to  drain  and  set  aside  to  chill.  Prepare  a 
filling  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  adding  one-half  as 
much  chopped  walnuts.  Mix  with  dressing.  Or  stuff 
tomatoes  with  cooked  peas,  string  beans,  asparagus  or  fish 
combined  with  any  of  these  vegetables,  and  mixed  with 
salad  dressing.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

7.  Tomatoes  and  hard  cooked  eggs  served  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

8.  Artichokes  with  center  stuffed  with  crab,  shrimp  or 
chicken  salad. 

9.  Potatoes  with  seasoning  of  onions  and  chopped 
sour  pickles. 

10.  Asparagus  tips,  artichoke  hearts,  lettuce. 

11.  Combination  of  cooked  vegetables  called  Mace- 
doine  salad. 

12.  Shrimp  and  cucumber  salad. — Pare  cucumbers 
and  cut  in  halves  lengthwise;  remove  centers,  cut  in  dice 
and  add  to  shrimps.  Mix  with  dressing;  fill  cucumber 
shells;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

13.  Mix  half  as  much  celery,  cut  very  fine,  as  shrimps: 


[184]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

mix  with  dressing;  garnish  with  capers  or  olives  and  serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

14.  Two  cups  cold  cooked  chicken,  cut  in  cubes;  cup 
celery;  cut  fine;  mix  with  dressing  and  garnish  with  pi- 
mentos or  stuffed  olives. 

15.  Cooked  asparagus,  rings  of  green  peppers,  slices  of 
pimentos;  slip  several  stalks  of  asparagus  through  the 
green  pepper  rings;  place  on  lettuce  leaf  and  decorate 
with  pimentos. 

A  Few  Combinations  Using  French  Dressing 

1.  Lettuce,  tomatoes  and  shredded  green  peppers. 

2.  Cauliflower,  string  beans  and  shredded  lettuce; 
garnish  with  diced  beets. 

3.  Lettuce,  cream  cheese  (cut  in  slices)  and  shredded 
pimentos. 

4.  Shredded  cabbage  with  chopped  green  peppers; 
garnish  with  pickles. 

5.  Brussels  sprouts  and  chopped  green  peppers. 

6.  Potatoes,  hard  cooked  eggs,  sliced  green  onion, 
parsley. 

7.  Scoop  out  centers  of  cold  cooked  beets  to  form  a 
cup;  sprinkle  inside  with  salt  and  pepper,  fill  with  a  mix- 
ture of  diced  cucumbers  and  shredded  green  peppers  mixed 
with  dressing;  or  fill  with  cooked  peas  and  carrots  to  which 
dressing  has  been  added.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


CHAPTER  EIGHT 

YEAST  MIXTURES 

BREAD 

ROLLS 

COFFEE  CAKES 


186]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Yeast  Mixtures 

Helpful  Hints  on  Bread  Making 

JREAD  is  the  most  important  article  of  food  in  the 
daily  diet.  And  the  many  processes  employed  in 
making  and  baking  gives  us  a  great  variety  of 
appetizing  breads,  that  furnish  the  largest  amount 
of  food  value  for  the  least  money  expended. 

The  process  of  making  these  yeast  mixtures  is  most 
interesting,  and  a  little  careful  study  and  practice  will 
surely  reward  you  for  your  time  and  trouble. 

The  first  essential  for  perfect  bread  is  a  good  flour; 
second,  careful  manipulation  and  third,  proper  baking. 

The  longer  the  batter  is  beaten,  the  less  kneading  the 
dough  will  require.  When  dough  can  be  lifted  in  a  mass 
on  a  spoon,  it  is  ready  to  knead. 

Dough  is  kneaded  to  mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly, 
to  make  the  gluten  elastic  and  to  work  in  the  air.  It  is 
sufficiently  kneaded  when  it  can  be  left  on  the  board  for 
a  minute  or  more  without  sticking. 

In  cool  weather  the  bowl  containing  the  dough  may 
be  set  in  a  pan  of  warm  water.  To  keep  the  dough  from 
cooling,  mix  and  knead  it  quickly. 

Quick  handling  prevents  the  dough  from  cooling  and 
hastens  the  process  of  rising. 

Always  make  small  loaves  to  insure  bread  being  baked 
through;  in  large  loaves  the  heat  may  fail  to  penetrate 
to  the  center  of  the  loaf. 

If  bread  rises  much  after  being  put  in  the  oven,  the 
heat  is  not  great  enough,  but  if  it  begins  to  brown  in 
less  than  fifteen  minutes,  the  heat  is  too  great.  During 
the  first  ten  minutes  the  loaves  are  in  the  oven  they 
should  merely  rise  and  perhaps  begin  to  show  a  little 
brown  in  spots;  in  the  second  period  of  ten  minutes  they 
should  become  a  delicate  brown  all  over  the  surface  and 
cease  to  rise;  in  the  third  period  they  should  finish 
browning,  and  in  the  fourth  they  should  shrink  slightly 
from  the  pans.  After  the  first  ten  minutes  the  oven  heat 
can  be  decreased  slightly,  and  as  baking  continues  it 
may  be  lessened  still  more. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [187] 

When  baking  is  completed,  the  loaves  will  give  forth  a 
hollow  sound  when  tapped,  and  will  shrink  from  the  pan. 

After  baking  remove  bread  at  once  from  the  pans  and 
allow  to  cool  in  fresh  air,  uncovered.  Do  not  put  away 
until  perfectly  cold. 

For  all  rolls,  plain  or  fancy,  use  the  bread  formula. 
If  a  richer  dough  is  desired,  changes  may  be  made  in  the 
following  manner: 

Use  milk  instead  of  water  for  liquid;  both  shortening 
and  sugar  may  be  increased  by  one  tablespoon  or  more 
to  each  cup  of  liquid.  Also  the  white  of  one  egg  may  be 
added.  With  these  changes  it  may  be  found  necessary 
to  use  a  little  more  flour. 

Dark  breads  are  valuable  for  their  mineral  salts  and 
coarse  texture.  They  should  be  included  in  the  diet 
particularly  that  of  children  and  elderly  persons.  They 
are  valued  mainly  for  their  laxative  qualities. 

BREAD  AND  ROLLS 

Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.    One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 

Bread 

1  cup  water  or  milk,  scalded.  H  compressed  yeast  cake  dis- 
1  tablespoon  melted  shortening.  solved  in  M  cup  lukev?arm 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  water. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  Between  3  and  4  cups  flour. 

Method  of  Preparation:  Put  shortening,  sugar  and 
salt  in  scalded  liquid;  let  it  stand  until  lukewarm,  then 
add  dissolved  yeast  and  flour  gradually,  beating  well 
until  too  stiff^  to  stir.  Turn  on  moulding  board  and  knead 
in  remaining  flour  until  mixture  is  smooth,  does  not 
stick  to  the  hands  or  board,  and  bubbles  may  be  seen 
under  the  surface.  Return  to  well-greased  bowl,  brush 
dough  over  with  melted  shortening,  cover  and  allow  to 
rise  in  a  warm  place  to  twice  its  original  size,  then  knead 
down  in  a  bowl  and  let  rise  again.  This  second  kneading, 
after  the  dough  has  risen  once,  gives  a  much  finer  grain 
to  bread  and  should  always  be  used.  When  dough  has 
again  risen  to  double  its  size,  it  will  be  ready  to  shape 
into  loaves  or  rolls.    Place  loaves  in  well-greased  pans, 


[188]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

having  them  about  half  full.  Brush  both  bread  and  rolls 
with  melted  shortening,  let  them  rise  again  to  double 
their  size  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  forty-five  min- 
utes for  medium-sized  loaves  and  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes  for  rolls,  according  to  size. 

This  quantity  of  dough  is  for  one  large  loaf  of  bread 
or  pan  of  rolls.  With  one-half  yeast  cake  used  to  each 
half-pint  measuring  cup  of  liquid,  bread  can  be  made 
and  completed,  if  kept  in  a  warm  room,  in  about  5  hours. 
If  a  longer  period  be  given  to  the  rising  process  less 
yeast  will  be  required.  One-quarter  yeast  cake  to  each  cup 
of  liquid  will  be  sufficient  if  dough  is  set  over  night.  In 
either  case  the  same  method  of  preparation  is  used. 

If  milk  is  used,  scalding,  while  not  essential,  is  an 
absolute  test  of  its  freshness.  If  scalded,  cool  to  luke- 
warm, otherwise  it  will  kill  the  yeast  plant. 

For  Prune  or  Raisin  Bread 

Follow  bread  foundation  recipe,  adding  1  more  table- 
spoon of  sugar.  When  dough  has  risen  once,  add  1  cup 
of  seedless  raisins  or  pitted  chopped  prunes  for  each  cup 
of  liquid  used  and  allow  to  double  in  size  again,  when 
the  dough  will  be  ready  for  loaves.  Put  in  well-greased 
pans,  let  double  in  size,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  45  min- 
utes for  a  medium  sized  loaf. 

Another  method  of  adding  fruit:  When  shaping  into 
loaves  roll  out  dough  for  each  loaf,  cover  with  fruit  and 
roll  up  like  jelly  roll.  Place  in  greased  pans  and  proceed 
as  directed.  After  fruit  has  been  added,  the  dough  will 
take  longer  to  rise  than  plain  bread  dough. 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Use  bread  foundation  recipe.  After  dough  has  risen 
to  double  in  size  the  second  time,  roll  into  a  sheet  about 
1  inch  thick.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  then  with  the 
handle  of  a  knife  dipped  in  flour  press  lightly  through 
the  center  of  each  roll,  brush  with  melted  shortening, 
fold  over  and  place  close  together  in  a  well-greased  pan. 
Set  in  a  warm  place  until  light,  then  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
When  baked,  brush  over  with  melted  shortening  or  the 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [189] 

unbeaten  white  of  egg.    The  white  of  egg  gives  a  high 
gloss. 

Tea  Rolls 

Use  bread  foundation  recipe.  When  dough  is  light, 
knead  slightly  and  cut  in  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut. Brush  with  melted  shortening;  place  close  together 
in  a  well-greased  pan. 

One  additional  tablespoon  of  sugar  for  each  cup  of  liquid 
improves  these  rolls. 

Clover  Leaf  Rolls 

Use  bread  foundation  recipe.  When  dough  is  light, 
shape  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  large  marble,  place 
in  groups  of  three  in  well-greased  muffin  pans.  Brush 
with  melted  shortening,  allow  to  become  very  light  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  baked,  brush  with  unbeaten 
white  of  egg. 

Lady  Finger  Rolls 

Use  bread  foundation  recipe.  When  light,  roll  dough 
into  small  balls.  Let  rise  again,  then  shape  balls  into 
long  rolls,  pointed  at  the  ends,  thick  in  the  center.  Place 
on  a  greased  pan,  brush  with  melted  shortening,  let  rise 
again,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  baked  brush  with 
unbeaten  white  of  egg. 

Dinner  Rolls 

Use  bread  foundation  recipe.  When  light,  shape  into 
small  round  rolls,  and  place  in  well-greased  muffin  pans. 
Brush  with  melted  shortening,  allow  to  become  very 
light,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Entire  Wheat  Bread  or  Rolls 

1  cup  water  or  milk,  scalded.        J^  compressed  yeast  cake  dis- 
1  tablespoon  melted  shortemng.  solved  in  %  cup  lukewarm 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  water. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  About  3  cups  of  entire  wheat 

flour. 

Add  shortening,  sugar  and  salt  to  scalded  liquid;  when 
lukewarm  add  dissolved  yeast  and  entire  wheat  flour 
gradually,  beating  until  stiff.    Knead  in  flour  until  mix- 


[190]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

ture  is  smooth,  does  not  stick  to  the  hands  or  board. 
Place  in  greased  bowl,  brush  with  melted  fat.  Allow  to 
rise  in  a  warm  place  until  double  in  size.  Shape  into 
loaves  or  rolls.  Place  in  greased  pans,  brush  with  melted 
fat,  let  rise  again  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  forty- 
five  minutes  for  loaves  or  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  for  rolls. 


Graham  Bread  or  Rolls 

1  cup  water  or  milk,  scalded.  H  compressed  yeast  cake  dis- 

1  tablespoon  melted  shortening.  solved  in  \i  cup  lukewarm 

1  tablespoon   brown   sugar   or  water. 

molasses.  V/i    cups    graham   flour   and 

1  teaspoon  salt.  enough  white  flour  to  knead. 

Add  shortening,  sugar  and  salt  to  scalded  liquid. 
When  lukewarm,  add  dissolved  yeast,  graham  flour  and 
enough  white  flour  to  knead.  Turn  on  molding  board  and 
knead  mixture  until  smooth  and  does  not  stick  to  the 
hands  or  board.  Place  in  well-greased  bowl,  brush 
dough  with  melted  fat;  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  till 
double  in  size.  Shape  into  loaves  or  rolls.  Place  in  well- 
greased  pans.  Brush  with  melted  fat,  let  rise  again  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  45  minutes  for  loaves  and  20  to  30 
minutes  for  rolls. 


Bran  Bread 

1  cup  boiling  water.  J^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  \i 

1  teaspoon  salt.  cup  of  lukewarm  water. 

1  tablespoon  molasses  or  brown  1  cupful  Bran. 

sugar.  Enough  entire  wheat  flour  to 

1  tablespoon  melted  shortening.  knead. 

Add  salt,  shortening  and  molasses  to  hot  water;  cool 
to  lukewarm  then  add  dissolved  yeast.  Add  bran  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter  so  that  the  mixture 
may  be  kneaded  until  elastic.  Place  in  a  greased  bowl, 
brush  over  top  with  melted  fat  and  let  rise  until  double 
in  size.  Shape  into  loaves,  let  rise  again  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven. 


Mrs.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [191] 

Rye  Bread 

1  cup  hot  water.  K  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  M 

1  tablespoon  melted  shortening.  cup  lukewarm  water. 

2  tablespoons  brown  sugar.  VA  cups    rye    flour.     Enough 
1  teaspoon  salt.  white  flour  to  knead. 

To  lukewarm  water,  add  shortening,  salt  and  sugar; 
when  lukewarm  add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  rye  flour; 
beat  well,  then  add  enough  flour  to  knead;  when  kneaded 
thoroughly  place  in  well-greased  bowl,  let  rise  again, 
then  shape  into  loaves.  Set  in  a  warm  place  until  light, 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Brush  over  with  melted  shortening 
before  and  after  baking. 

This  will  make  one  large  loaf  of  bread  or  pan  of  rolls. 


192]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 


Yeast  Cojfee  Cakes 


Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.    One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 

Cofifee  Cake 

First  Part,  Sponge :  Second  Part,  Dough : 

1  cup  scalded  milk.  J^  cup  melted  butter. 

1  compressed  yeast  cake,  dis-      M  cup  sugar. 

solved  in  M  cup  lukewarm      1  egg,  well  beaten. 

water.  1  teaspoon  almond  flavoring. 

VA  cups  flour.  14.  teaspoon  salt. 

3  (about)  cups  flour. 

Method  of  Preparation:  Cool  milk  to  lukewarm, 
then  add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  Ij^  cups  flour.  Beat 
until  smooth  and  put  in  warm  place  until  light.  This 
will  take  about  one  hour.  Sponge  is  light  when  full  of 
bubbles.  Then  add  other  ingredients,  turn  on  board  and 
knead  until  smooth  and  elastic  and  does  not  stick  to 
hands  or  board.  Place  in  well-greased  bowl,  brushing 
over  top  of  dough  with  melted  shortening.  Allow  to  rise 
to  2}4  times  its  original  size.  This  will  take  2  hours  or 
more.  Then  the  dough  is  ready  for  the  various  coffee 
cakes. 

If  a  richer  dough  is  desired,  double  the  quantity  of 
shortening  and  eggs,  using  only  ^  cup  of  milk. 

Plain  Coffee  Cake 

Use  coffee  cake  foundation  recipe.  When  light,  roll 
out  to  about  2  inches  thick,  place  in  well-greased  shallow 
pan,  and  brush  over  top  with  yolk  of  egg  diluted  with  2 
tablespoons  of  milk  and  then  sprinkle  top  with  following 
mixture: 

}/2  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs.         2  tablespoons  sugar. 
Cinnamon.  2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

Let  coffee  cake  stand  until  light  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Tea  Ring 

Use  coffee  cake  foundation  recipe.  When  light,  roll 
out  to  about  yi  inch  thickness.    Brush  over  with  melted 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [193] 

shortening,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  seedless 
raisins,  or  raisins  and  chopped  walnuts.  Roll  up  like  a 
jelly  roll,  join  the  ends,  forming  a  ring,  place  on  well- 
greased  pan,  and  with  scissors  cut  ^  through  the  ring 
of  dough  in  pieces  about  2  inches  apart.  After  cutting, 
turn  each  piece  over,  brush  over  with  yolk  of  egg  diluted 
with  two  tablespoons  of  milk.  Let  rise  again  and  bake 
in  a  medium  oven  about  25  minutes.  When  baked, 
brush  over  top  with  unbeaten  white  of  egg.  This  gives  a 
high  gloss.    Have  oven  at  moderate  heat. 

Wreath  Cake 

Use  coffee  cake  foundation  recipe.  When  dough  is 
light  roll  to  yi  inch  thickness  and  spread  with  the  follow- 
ing mixture: 

1  cup  chopped  seeded  raisins.      1  sodacracker     rolled     into 

1  lemon     (juice    and     grated  crumbs, 

rind).  1  beaten  egg. 

Roll  up  dough  as  for  a  jelly  roll  and  join  the  ends 
firmly  together.  Place  in  a  well-greased  pan  with  a 
center  tube,  brush  over  the  top  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
diluted  with  an  equal  quantity  of  milk.  Let  rise  until 
double  in  size  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  30 
minutes.  Glaze  with  1  egg  yolk  beaten  with  2  tablespoons 
milk. 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

Use  coffee  cake  foundation  recipe.  When  light,  roll 
dough  into  a  sheet  yi  inch  thick.  Brush  over  with  melted 
butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and,  if  de- 
sired, seedless  raisins.  Roll  up  as  for  a  jelly  roll,  and  with 
a  sharp  knife  cut  in  slices  about  \yi  inch  thick.  Place 
these  slices  upright  in  a  well-greased  pan  and  stand  in 
a  warm  place  to  rise.  Allow  to  become  very  light  before 
baking.  These  can  be  varied  by  sprinkling  brown  sugar 
in  the  pan  after  greasing  and  placing  the  slices  on  sugar. 
When  baked,  turn  upside  down,  the  brown  sugar  form- 
ing a  candied  top.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  use  too 
hot  an  oven  for  these  rolls. 

They  can  also  be  baked  in  muffin  pans  and  treated  in 
the  same  way. 


[194]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Plain  Sweet  Rolls 

Use  coffee  cake  foundation  recipe.  When  light,  form 
into  any  desired  shape,  brush  over  with  yolk  of  egg 
diluted  with  2  tablespoons  of  milk.  Allow  to  become 
light  and  bake.  If  perfect  rolls  are  desired,  do  not  put 
close  together  in  pan.  As  soon  as  baked,  brush  over  with 
egg  yolk  beaten  with  2  tablespoons  of  milk  to  glaze.  This 
should  be  done  as  soon  as  rolls  are  removed  from  the  oven 
so  the  mixture  will  dry  at  once  from  heat  of  rolls. 

Rusks 

Use  coffee  cake  foundation  recipe.  When  light  cut  off 
pieces  of  dough  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  place  on  a  greased 
cookie  pan  about  3  inches  apart.  Brush  over  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  to  which  two  tablespoons  of  milk  have  been 
added.  When  light,  bake  in  a  medium  hot  oven,  and, 
when  baked,  glaze  with  confectioners'  icing,  which  is 
made  by  taking  1  tablespoon  of  hot  water  and  adding 
enough  powdered  sugar  to  thicken;  add  a  few  drops  of 
vanilla. 

Brioche 

Use  coffee  cake  foundation  recipe.  When  very  light 
roll  in  a  thin  sheet,  spread  very  lightly  with  softened 
butter,  and  fold  over  in  three  layers,  pressing  lightly  with 
the  rolling  pin.  Cut  in  strips  about  1  inch  wide  and  4 
inches  long.  Take  these  strips,  one  end  in  each  hand, 
and  twist  in  opposite  directions.  Then  bring  the  ends 
together  in  a  circle,  press  together,  and  place  in  a  well- 
greased  pan  about  3  inches  apart.  Brush  over  with  the 
yolk  of  egg  and  milk.  Let  rise  and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 
When  baked,  brush  with  confectioners'  sugar  icing. 

Hot  Cross  Buns 

Use  coffee  cake  foundation  recipe,  adding  ^  cup  of 
raisins.  When  light,  form  into  balls,  set  on  a  greased  pan 
some  distance  apart,  smooth  side  up;  brush  with  melted 
shortening  and  let  rise.  Before  putting  in  a  hot  oven,  cut 
a  cross  on  top  of  each  bun.  When  baked,  brush  rolls  over 
with  yolk  of  egg  diluted  with  2  tablespoons  of  milk. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [195] 

Raised  Doughnuts 

Use  coffee  cake  foundation  recipe.  When  light,  roll  to 
yi  inch  thickness,  cut  with  doughnut  cutter,  let  stand 
until  light  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain,  cool  and  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar. 


[196]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Toast 

Cut  bread  in  y^  inch  slices.  Place  over  hot  coals,  on  a 
heated  electric  toaster  or  in  a  heated  boiler.  Do  not 
place  too  near  the  heat.  Toast  until  a  golden  brown  on 
each  side.  If  desired  very  crisp  do  not  butter  before 
serving.  If  liked  somewhat  soft,  butter  and  set  in  the 
oven  a  few  minutes. 

Milk  Toast 

Milk  toast  seems  a  simple  dish,  and  is  if  the  bread  is 
treated  to  just  the  right  amount  of  crispness.  Cut  the 
bread  about  ^2  inch  thick;  it  should  be  toasted  on  each 
side  until  crisp,  but  not  brittle.  Each  slice  should  be 
dipped,  for  only  an  instant,  in  hot  salted  water.  This 
must  be  done  quickly  for  the  toast  should  not  be  soggy. 

Place  slices  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  a  thin  white  sauce 
over  them.  The  sauce  should  be  prepared  before  the 
toast  is  made  and  may  be  kept  hot  in  a  double  boiler. 
Allow  one  cup  of  sauce  to  four  slices  of  toast.  Egg  toast 
is  made  by  adding  one  chopped,  hard  cooked  egg  to  each 
cup  of  white  sauce.  Hot  milk  may  be  poured  over  crisp 
slices  of  buttered  toast  and  served  at  once. 

French  Toast 

Beat  2  eggs  until  light  and  creamy;  add  }4  teaspoon 
salt,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  and  ^  cup  of  milk;  mix  well; 
cut  bread  in  ^  inch  slices,  then  cut  in  triangles;  dip  in 
the  egg  and  milk  mixture  and  then  place  in  a  well  greased 
hot  frying  pan  and  cook  on  each  side  until  a  golden  brown. 
Serve  hot  with  generous  teaspoons  of  jam  or  jelly  in  the 
center  of  each  slice  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Croutons 

Cut  dry  bread  into  ^  inch  slices;  then  cut  into  cubes. 
Place  in  a  very  moderate  oven  to  dry  and  become  brown. 
Stir  frequently.  It  will  take  about  20  minutes  to  dry  the 
croutons. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [197] 

Breads  Without  Yeast 

Note. — AH  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.    One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 

Superior  Sandwich  Bread 

1)4,  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  graham  flour.  J^  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

}/i  cup  com  meal.  1  cup  seedless  raisins. 

J^  cup  brown  sugar.  J^  cup  molasses. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  2  cups  sour  milk  or  buttermilk. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  but  do  not  discard  bran 
from  graham  flour  which  will  not  go  through  the  sieve. 
Add  remainder  of  materials  in  order  named.  Put  into  2 
small,  well-greased  bread  pans,  allow  to  stand  15  min- 
utes, then  bake  about  40  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

This  makes  an  excellent  sandwich  bread  and  keeps  well. 

Nut  Bread 

2  cups  flour.  1  cup  milk. 
}/2  teaspoon  salt.  3<C  cup  sugar. 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder.            1  egg. 

J^  cup  chopped  walnuts.  1  tablespoon  melted  shortening. 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  except  sugar;  beat  egg,  add  sugar 
gradually,  then  milk.  Combine  with  dry  ingredients  and 
add  nuts.  Put  in  a  well-greased  bread  pan  and  allow  to 
stand  20  minutes  before  baking.  Bake  about  35  minutes 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Cool  before  cutting. 

Prune  Bread 

1  cup  yellow  com  meal.  ]4,  cup  New  Orleans  molasses. 

2  cups  graham  flour.  1  cup  pitted,  chopped,  uncooked 

1  teaspoon  salt.  prunes. 
14:  teaspoon  soda.  1  cup  milk. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  tablespoon  melted  shortening. 
2  tablespoons  brown  sugar. 

Mix  dry  ingredients;  add  prunes,  molasses  and  milk. 
Pour  into  2  well-greased  covered  molds.  Steam  about  1 
hour,  keeping  water  boiling  constantly. 


[198]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

1  cup  graham  flour.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  corn  meal.  ^  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  rye  flour  or  meal.  2  cups  of  sour  milk  or  l^i  cups 

1  teaspoon  salt.  of  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Sift  dry  Ingredients,  add  molasses  and  milk.  Put  in  2 
well-greased  molds  with  tight  covers  and  steam  1}4 
hours,  keeping  water  constantly  at  boiling  point. 

1  cup  of  seedless  raisins  may  be  added. 

Gingerbread 

2  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
1  teaspoon  soda.  1  cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  J^  cup  milk  (sweet  or  sour). 

3  teaspoons  ginger.  1  egg. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  }/^  cup  shortening. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Put  molasses  and  short- 
ening into  a  sauce  pan  and  heat  slowly  until  shortening 
is  melted  and  mixed  with  molasses.  Beat  egg,  add  milk, 
then  molasses  mixture  and  dry  ingredients.  Bake  in  well- 
greased  shallow  pan  or  muffin  tins  in  a  moderate  oven  25 
minutes. 

Gingerbread  is  greatly  improved  by  adding  the  grated 
rind  of  an  orange  or  2  tablespoons  of  orange  marmalade  to 
the  batter  before  baking.  One-third  cup  chopped  walnuts 
or  raisins  may  be  added  also. 


CHAPTER  NINE 

BREAKFAST  BREADS 
WAFFLES 
GRIDDLE  CAKES 
BISCUITS 
MUFFINS 


200]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Waffles  and  Griddle  Cakes 

AFFLES,  the  most  popular  of  all  breakfast  breads, 
are  not  found  on  the  menu  of  the  average  house- 
wife due  perhaps,  to  the  general  impression  that 
they  are  difficult  to  make  and  bake  and  should 
be  attempted  only  by  professional  cooks.  So  the  waffle 
iron  is  not  usually  included  in  the  general  kitchen  equip- 
ment, and  the  housewife  does  not  have  an  opportunity  to 
test  out  her  ability  to  make  satisfactory  waffles.  A 
waffle  iron  is  not  an  expens  ve  piece  of  equipment  and 
should  be  included  among  the  kitchen  necessities.  The 
pleasure  the  household  will  derive  from  the  occasional 
Sunday  breakfast  of  hot,  crisp  waffles  and  maple  syrup 
will  amply  repay  for  both  the  investment  and  the  effort 
to  produce  this  tempting  breakfast  bread. 

The  waffle  irons  are  made  of  iron  or  aluminum  and 
come  in  two  styles,  the  low  iron  to  be  used  on  a  coal  or 
wood  range  and  the  high  iron  for  use  over  a  gas  flame. 
Then  there  is  the  electric  waffle  iron,  made  of  aluminum 
to  be  used  right  on  the  table,  so  that  each  person  served 
is  sure  to  receive  the  waffle  hot  from  the  iron. 

The  iron  waffle  iron,  being  less  expensive,  is  the  one 
most  commonly  used,  and  when  new  needs  seasoning  be- 
fore it  can  be  used  satisfactorily,  otherwise  the  waffles  will 
stick  to  the  iron.  Take  the  upper  parts  of  the  new  waffle 
iron  and  boil  for  at  least  half  an  hour  in  boiling  water  and 
washing  soda  or  washing  powder. 

Then  scrub  well  with  a  stiff  brush,  rinse  in  clean  hot 
water  and  dry  over  the  fire.  Place  in  the  lower  portion, 
which  has  been  washed  well  but  not  boiled.  Grease  the 
upper  part  lightly  on  both  sides  with  beef  suet  or  an  un- 
salted  fat  and  let  remain  over  a  low  fire  for  an  hour  or 
more,  turning  frequently.  The  iron  is  then  ready  to  use. 
The  aluminum  irons  do  not  require  this  treatment;  they 
are  ready  for  use  at  once  and  do  not  need  greasing. 

After  using,  the  upper  part  of  the  waffle  iron  may  be 
rubbed  clean  with  soft  paper.  This  is  a  much  better 
method  than  using  soap  and  water  after  the  iron  has  been 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [201] 

seasoned.  The  lower  part  may  be  washed,  but  should  be 
well  dried  before  setting  away  to  prevent  rusting. 

The  batter  for  both  waffles  and  griddle  cakes  is  of  about 
the  same  consistency.  Many  persons  prefer  a  somewhat 
substantial  griddle  cake  although  the  very  thin  ones  are 
considered  the  best  by  epicures.  The  griddle  cake  batter 
does  not  require  shortening. 

Waffles  require  the  thinnest  of  batters.  If  it  is  not  thin 
the  waffles  will  not  be  crisp.  The  most  efficient  way  of 
putting  a  batter  together  is  to  sift  all  of  the  dry  in- 
gredients, then  combine  with  the  liquids,  and  beat  well 
with  an  egg  beater.  For  a  very  light  batter  the  eggs 
should  be  beaten  separately,  the  yolks  mixed  with  the 
milk,  then  added  gradually  to  the  dry  materials,  the 
melted  shortening  is  then  beaten  into  the  mixture,  and 
the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  folded  in  last. 

Beating  the  whole  egg  until  light,  then  adding  the  milk 
and  combining  with  the  dry  ingredients,  and  beating 
until  smooth  with  the  egg  beater  is  a  much  easier  method 
and  will  prove  just  as  satisfactory,  although  perhaps 
not  quite  so  airy  as  the  first  method.  A  standard  recipe 
can  be  used  in  making  any  quantity  of  batter  desired. 
One  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  %  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of 
melted  shortening.  This  quantity  of  batter  will  make  3 
waffles.  Now  with  these  proportions  in  mind  the  house- 
keeper need  not  refer  to  a  recipe  but  can  make  any  num- 
ber of  waffles  desired.  If  sour  milk  is  used  take  only  one 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  add  3<C  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing soda  to  neutralize  the  acidity  of  the  sour  milk.  If  the 
milk  is  quite  thick  it  may  be  necessary  to  use  a  little  more 
than  one  cup  in  order  to  get  the  batter  thin  enough. 

When  eggs  are  scarce  or  high  in  price  1  egg  only  can  be 
used  for  2  cupfuls  of  milk,  flour,  etc.;  in  that  case  3^  cupful 
more  milk  should  be  used  to  make  the  batter  of  the  right 
consistency.  Cooked  rice  or  other  left-over  cereal  may  be 
added  to  this  batter  to  give  variety.  In  that  case  use  % 
cupful  of  the  cooked  cereal,  and  ^  cupful  of  flour,  in- 
stead of  the  full  cup  of  flour  given  in  the  foundation 
formula. 


[202]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Any  of  the  self-rising  pancake  flours  may  be  used  for 
waffles  by  omitting  the  baking  powder  and  following  the 
waffle  recipe. 

The  waffle  iron  should  be  well  heated  and  just  before 
adding  the  batter  grease  the  iron  on  the  side  nearest  the 
flame;  grease  thoroughly,  but  lightly;  turn  the  iron  so 
that  the  greased  portion  is  on  top.  This  will  grease  the 
ungreased  side,  which  is  usually  enough  after  the  iron 
has  been  used  several  times.  Place  about  5  tablespoons 
of  batter  in  the  center  of  the  iron.  This  will  be  suflScient 
to  fill  it.  Lower  the  upper  half  of  the  iron  and  turn  at 
once.  Do  not  have  the  gas  too  high  or  the  waffles  will 
bake  too  quickly  and  not  be  thoroughly  cooked  and  crisp. 
If  the  waffle  iron  has  been  properly  heated  the  waffles 
will  be  evenly  browned  on  both  sides. 

Waffles  should  be  served  as  soon  as  baked  to  be  at  their 
best.  If,  however,  it  is  necessary  to  keep  them  for  a  short 
time,  place  on  the  wire  rack  in  a  warm  oven,  keeping  each 
waffle  separate.  If  placed  on  a  plate  and  allowed  to  stand, 
the  waffles  will  become  heavy  and  soggy  on  the  under- 
side. Serve  only  1  waffle  at  a  time  to  each  person.  If 
placed  one  on  top  of  another  they  will  not  be  crisp.  Served 
with  either  maple  syrup,  jam  or  jelly,  what  could  make  a 
more  palatable  breakfast  than  hot,  crisp  waffles.'' 

Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.     One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 


Griddle  Cakes 

1  cup  flour.  1  egg. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  M  cup  milk. 
3^  teaspoon  salt. 

Method  of  Preparation:  The  most  simple  and 
efficient  way  to  put  a  batter  together  is  to  mix  and  sift 
the  dry  ingredients  first,  then  mix  the  liquid  and  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  combine  the  mixtures.  If 
using  shortening,  add  it  melted,  and  finally  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

Eggs  should  always  be  beaten  separately  when  light- 
ness is  desired,  but  if  time  is  limited  the  result  will  be 
satisfactory  if  eggs  are  beaten  together. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [l203  ] 

For  griddle  cakes,  the  griddle  should  be  well  heated, 
and,  if  not  soapstone  or  aluminum,  should  be  greased. 
Drop  batter  by  spoonfuls,  and  when  puffed  and  full  of 
bubbles  and  cooked  on  the  edges,  turn  and  brown  on  the 
other  side.  Never  turn  griddle  cakes  but  once.  Other- 
wise the}'  will  be  heavy. 

Sour  Milk  Griddle  Cakes 

2  cups  flour.  1  egg. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  2  cups  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

Sift  dry  ingredients.    Beat  egg,  add  milk  and  combine 

mixtures. 

Cereal  Pancakes 

Cooked  cereal  of  any  kind  may  be  added  to  a  pancake 
batter  by  omitting  an  equal  quantity  of  flour  and  using 
not  more  than  1  cupful  of  cereal  to  each  cupful  of  flour. 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes 

Use  the  regular  recipe  for  griddle  cakes,  substituting 
stale  bread  crumbs  either  wholly  or  in  part  for  the  flour. 
More  liquid  will  be  necessary,  the  quantity  depending 
upon  the  staleness  of  the  crumbs. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes 

1  cup  flour.  1  egg,  beaten. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  1^  cups  milk. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  1  cup  cooked  rice. 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Sift  first  4  ingredients;  beat  egg,  add  milk,  then  rice, 
and  add  gradually  dry  ingredients,  beating  to  a  smooth 
batter.    Bake  at  once  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Com  Meal  Griddle  Cakes 

1  cup  corn  meal.  4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  flour.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

2  cups  milk.  2  eggs. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  com  meal  and  let  stand 
until  cool.    Sift  dry  ingredients.    Beat  eggs,  add  milk, 


[204]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

dry  ingredients  and  corn  meal.    If  using  sour  milk,  omit 
baking  powder  and  add  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Left-over  corn  meal  cereal  may  be  used  to  make  these 
cakes. 

French  Pancake 

1  cup  flour.  J/g  teaspoon  salt. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoon  sugar.  2  eggs. 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Beat  egg,  add  milk  and  combine 
mixtures.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle.  Spread  with  softened 
butter  and  jelly  and  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  serve. 

Sweet  Milk  Waffles 

2  eggs,  well  beaten.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  milk.  2  tablespoons  melted  sborten- 

2  cups  flour.  ing. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  beat  eggs  until  light,  add  milk, 
then  combine  mixtures  beating  well  with  the  egg  beater. 
Add  melted  shortening,  beat  again,  then  bake  at  once  on 
a  well-heated  waffle  iron. 

Sour  Milk  Waffles 

2  eggs,  well  beaten.  3^  teaspoon  baking  soda. 

2  cups  sour  or  buttermilk.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  flour.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  ing. 

Sift  soda  with  dry  ingredients  and  mix  as  directed  for 
sweet  milk  waffles.  If  batter  seems  too  thick  more  milk 
may  be  added  until  of  right  consistency. 

Commeal  Waffles 

2  eggs.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 

2  cups  milk.  ing. 

1  cup  flour.  1  cup  commeal. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  cornmeal  and  let  stand  until 
cool.   This  is  done  to  partially  cook  the  cornmeal  in  order 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [205] 

to  make  it  thoroughly  digestible.  Sift  remaining  dry  in- 
gredients; beat  eggs,  add  milk,  then  the  cornmeal,  beat- 
ing well;  add  remaining  ingredients,  beat  until  smooth 
and  bake  on  a  hot  waffle  iron. 

Entire  Wheat  Waffles 

2  eggs.  4  level  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

2  cups  milk.  der. 

IJ-^  cups  entire  wheat  flour.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

yi  cup  white  flour.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 

ing. 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  beat  eggs,  add  milk,  combine  mix- 
tures, beat  until  smooth,  add  shortening,  beat  again  and 
bake  on  a  well-heated  waffle  iron. 

Rice  or  Cereal  Waffles 

2  eggs.  4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  cups  milk.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Yi  cup  cooked  rice  or  cereal.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 
V/i  cups  flour.  ing. 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  milk  and  cereal,  sift  dry  ingredients 
and  combine  mixtures;  add  shortening,  beat  well  and 
bake  on  a  well-heated  waffle  iron. 


[206]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Biscuit  Dough  and  Variations  of  Biscuit 
^ough 

Just  why  so  many  housewives  fail  to  make  a  good  bis- 
cuit seems  strange,  for  this  dough  is  one  of  the  easiest 
mixtures  to  make.  Perhaps  failure  is  due  to  inaccurate 
measurements  and  too  slow  an  oven.  This  type  of  dough 
requires  a  hot  oven.  Too  often  the  amount  of  ingredients 
are  a  matter  of  guess  work  rather  than  of  measurement, 
and,  unless  one  is  a  skilled  cook,  the  results  of  guesswork 
are  usually  indifferent. 

When  sweet  milk  is  used  always  remember  that  2  level 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  are  used  to  each  cup  of 
sifted  flour.  This  never  changes,  no  matter  how  many 
cups  of  flour  you  are  using. 

There  should  be  no  taste  of  baking  powder  in  the  fin- 
ished product.  If  there  is,  then  your  measurements  have 
not  been  level,  or  you  are  using  a  very  poor  quality  of 
baking  powder. 

When  using  sour  or  buttermilk,  then  soda  will  be  your 
leavening  agent.  In  that  case  remember  that  ^  a  tea- 
spoon of  soda  is  used  to  each  cup  of  sour  milk.  Or  you  can 
use  }i  teaspoon  of  soda,  to  neutralize  the  acidity  of  1  cup 
of  sour  milk  and  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  each  cup 
of  flour. 

Do  not  dissolve  soda  in  the  sour  milk,  as  that  process 
releases  the  gases  too  soon  and  the  dough  will  be  less 
light.  Always  sift  the  soda  with  the  flour  for  biscuit 
doughs.  Sour  milk  can  be  substituted  for  sweet  milk  in 
any  recipe  if  these  rules  are  followed. 

Perhaps  you  have  never  stopped  to  consider  the  pos- 
sibilities of  the  ordinary  biscuit  dough.  This  mixture  is 
easily  adaptable  to  variety. 

It  is  quickly  mixed  and  baked  and  has  the  advantage 
of  being  one  of  the  most  inexpensive  mixtures  to  make. 
Many  very  palatable  desserts  can  be  prepared  from  this 
dough,  besides  several  varieties  of  bread. 

When  the  berry  season  begins  come  visions  of  old- 
fashioned  shortcake,  the  kind  made  from  biscuit  dough, 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [207] 

covered  generously  with  crushed  strawberries.  These 
old-fashioned  shortcakes  may  be  made  of  any  variety  of 
fruits,  fresh  or  cooked,  but  the  strawberry  is  queen  of 
them  all. 

However,  you  must  bear  in  mind  that  biscuit  mixtures, 
to  be  at  their  best,  should  be  served  while  fresh,  generally 
direct  from  the  oven.  A  heavy  biscuit  is  usually  due  to 
inaccurate  measurements  and  too  slow  an  oven.  This 
class  of  dough  takes  a  hot  oven. 

In  the  accompanying  recipes  the  term  shortening  means 
fat,  any  kind  you  may  prefer.  Half  butter  and  half  lard 
always  give  satisfactory  results,  but  as  butter  is  very  ex- 
pensive, and  many  people  do  not  like  lard,  most  any  of 
the  substitutes  for  either  one  will  be  found  satisfactory. 

Desserts  made  of  biscuit  doughs  will  be  found  under  hot 
desserts. 

Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.     One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

2  cups  flour.  4  tablespoons  shortening. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  %  cup  milk  or  equal  parts  of 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  milk  and  water. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  work  in  shortening  with 
knife  or  finger  tips.  Gradually  add  the  liquid,  mixing  it 
with  a  knife  to  a  soft  dough.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat 
or  roll  lightly  to  }/^  inch  in  thickness,  cut  with  biscuit 
cutter,  place  in  pan,  brush  over  the  top  with  either 
melted  shortening  or  milk.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  12  to  15 
minutes. 

Emergency  Biscuits 

2  cups  flour.  2  tablespoons  shortening. 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  milk. 

1  tablespoon  salt. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  work  in  shortening  with 
knife  or  finger  tips;  gradually  add  liquid,  mixing  with  a 
knife.  Drop  in  greased  muflfin  pans  or  baking  pan.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven.  When  cooked,  brush  over  the  surface  with 
a  mixture  of  sugar  and  water,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar  to  1 
tablespoon  of  water. 


[208]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Dinner  or  Luncheon  Biscuits 

2  cups  flour.  3  tablespoons  shortening. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  1  egg,  beaten,  then  put  in  cup 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  and  cup  filled  three-quar- 

2  teaspoons  sugar.  ters  full  of  milk. 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients;  rub  in  a  shortening  until  mix- 
ture is  like  coarse  meal;  add  egg  and  milk  mixture  grad- 
ually, mixing  with  a  knife.  Turn  on  to  a  slightly  floured 
board,  pat  and  roll  into  %  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  with  a 
biscuit  cutter,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  fold  over, 
place  in  pan  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


Savory  Biscuits 

Prepare  baking  powder  biscuit  dough;  after  cutting 
spread  3^  of  each  roll  with  deviled  ham,  fold,  brush  over 
top  with  melted  shortening  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


Cheese  Biscuits 

Make  the  baking  powder  biscuit  foundation  recipe. 
Roll  the  dough  thin;  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and 
paprika.  Fold  dough  over  to  enclose  cheese,  roll  lightly 
as  thin  as  possible,  then  cut  in  strips  an  inch  wide  and  4 
inches  long.  Brush  over  with  melted  shortening  and  bake 
until  a  golden  brown.    Serve  with  a  salad  course. 


Entire  Wheat  Biscuits 

2  cups  entire  wheat  flour.  2  tablespoons  shortening. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  M  (about)  cup  of  milk. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  rub  or  chop  in  the  shortening. 
Add  milk,  gradually  mixing  to  a  smooth  dough  with  a 
knife.  Turn  on  a  slightly  floured  board,  roll  to  about  3^ 
inch  in  thickness  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Place  in  a 
baking  pan,  brush  over  the  top  with  milk  or  melted  short- 
ening and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  12  minutes. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [209] 

Graham  Biscuits 

1  cup  graham  flour.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  cup  flour.  2  tablespoons  shortening. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  M  to  1  cup  of  milk. 
Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients  but  do  not  discard  bran  flakes. 
Rub  or  chop  in  the  shortening.  Add  milk  gradually  mix- 
ing to  a  smooth  dough.  Turn  on  a  slightly  floured  board 
and  roll  about  3^  inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter, 
place  in  a  baking  pan,  brush  over  tops  with  milk,  melted 
shortening  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  12  minutes. 

Com  Meal  Biscuits 

1  cup  flour.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  cup  corn  meal.  2  tablespoons  shortening. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  %  (about)  cup  of  milk. 
Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients.  Rub  or  chop  in  shortening. 
Add  milk  gradually.  Turn  in  a  slightly  floured  board, 
and  roll  about  3^  inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter, 
brush  over  with  melted  shortening  and  fold  over  like 
Parker  House  rolls.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  15  minutes. 

Surprise  Biscuits 

Make  the  baking  powder  biscuit  dough.  Roll  to  \^ 
inch  thick  and  cut  into  3  inch  squares.  Place  a  frankfurter 
sausage  in  the  center  of  each  biscuit  then  fold  over  and 
press  the  edges  firmly  together.  Place  on  a  baking  pan, 
brush  over  the  top  with  melted  shortening  and  bake  about 
20  minutes  in''a  hot  oven.    An  excellent  luncheon  dish. 

New  England  Butter  Buns 

Make  the  baking  powder  biscuit  dough.  Roll  about  3^ 
inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Heat  a  pancake 
griddle  to  a  moderate  heat,  rub  lightly  with  fat  and  place 
the  biscuits  on  top.  When  brown  on  one  side  turn  over  to 
finish  cooking. 

Maple  Nut  Biscuits 

Follow  biscuit  recipe.  Roll  dough  to  y^  inch  in  thick- 
ness; brush  over  with  melted  shortening,  sprinkle  with 


[210]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

finely  shaved  maple  sugar  (brown  sugar  may  be  substi- 
tuted); add  yi  cup  of  finely  chopped  walnuts;  roll  up  as 
for  a  jelly  roll,  and  cut  in  yi  inch  pieces;  place  upright  on 
a  greased  pan,  and  bake  in  a  medium  hot  oven  about  20 
minutes. 

Scones 

Follow  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe  making  these 
changes:  add  1  well-beaten  egg  and  extra  yolk,  reserving 
one  white  of  egg.  Use  enough  milk  to  make  the  consis- 
tency of  biscuit  dough.  Roll  ]A.  inch  thick,  brush  over 
with  the  unbeaten  egg  white,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  15  minutes. 
These  may  be  split  open  and  served  with  jelly  or  jam. 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

Use  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe.  Roll  to  X  inch  thick- 
ness, brush  over  with  melted  shortening,  sprinkle  with  2 
tablespoons  sugar  (brown,  granulated  or  maple),  3^  cup 
seedless  raisins,  J^  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Roll  like  a  jelly- 
roll,  cut  off  pieces  ^  inch  in  thickness.  Place  on  well- 
greased  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven  15  minutes. 

Drop  Dumplings 

Follow  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe,  making  these 
changes:  Use  2  teaspoons  of  shortening  and  1  cup  of  milk. 
The  dough  should  be  spongy  and  full  of  holes.  Drop  on 
boiling  stew,  cover  tightly  and  steam  15  minutes.  The 
success  of  a  light  dumpling  depends  upon  constantly  boil- 
ing liquid  and  not  removing  cover  during  cooking. 
Steamed  dumplings  are  made  from  biscuit  foundation, 
using  only  2  teaspoons  of  shortening.  Cut  as  for  biscuits, 
place  on  a  greased  pan  and  steam  in  a  steamer  over  hot 
water  15  minutes.  Dumplings  are  less  apt  to  be  soggy  if 
cooked  in  this  way. 

Plain  Meat  Pie  Crust 

Use  }/2  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe.  Roll  out  to  Yi 
inch  thickness  and  place  on  top  of  baking  dish  containing 
meat.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  A  richer  crust  can  be  made  by 
doubling  the  amount  of  shortening. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [211] 

Popovers 

1  cup  milk.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  fiour.  1  teaspoon  melted  butter. 
Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Add  flour  and  salt  to  milk  and  beat  well  with  an  egg 
beater.  Then  add  1  unbeaten  egg  at  a  time,  beating  thor- 
oughly. Add  melted  shortening.  Have  iron  muffin  pans 
or  custard  cups  very  hot,  grease  well,  pour  in  popover 
batter  and  bake  in  a  medium  hot  oven  about  40  minutes. 
Care  should  be  taken  not  to  take  from  the  oven  too  soon 
or  the  popovers  will  fall. 

This  amount  makes  8  large  popovers. 

Standard  Muffin  Recipe 

2  cups  flour.  1  well-beaten  egg. 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  ing. 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  beat  egg  well,  add  milk  and  dry 
materials,  gradually  beating  to  a  smooth  batter,  and  add- 
ing melted  shortening  last.  Bake  in  heated,  well-greased 
muffin  pans  in  a  hot  oven. 

Graham,  Entire  Wheat  or  Rye  Muffins 

Use  foundation  recipe,  allowing  1  cup  of  flour  to  1  cup 
of  any  of  the  above  mentioned  products,  substituting  yi 
cup  of  brown  sugar  or  New  Orleans  molasses  for  white 
sugar.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Berkshire  Muffins 

Yi  cup  com  meal.  Yi  cup  cooked  rice. 

Yi  cup  flour.  1  well-beaten  egg. 

Y2  teaspoon  salt.  Yz  cup  scalded  milk. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  tablespoon   melted   shorten- 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  ing. 

Pour  scalded  milk  on  corn  meal  and  let  stand  5  min- 
utes; add  rice,  then  well-beaten  egg  and  remaining  dry 
ingredients,  sifted.  Add  melted  shortening  and  bake  in 
well-greased  muffin  pans  in  a  quick  oven. 


[212]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Nut  Muffins 

Use  standard  muffin  foundation  recipe,  adding  yi  cup 
finely  chopped  walnuts. 

Sally  Lunn 

2  cups  flour.  1  cup  milk. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  2  well-beaten  eggs. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 

Yz  cup  sugar.  ing. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  beat  eggs,  add  milk,  then 
dry  materials  gradually,  beating  to  a  smooth  batter, 
adding  melted  shortening  last.  Pour  into  a  greased  shal- 
low pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.    Cut  in  squares  to  serve. 

Fruit  Muffins 

Add  1  cup  of  chopped  uncooked  prunes,  seeded  raisins, 
currants  or  huckleberries  to  the  standard  muffin  recipe. 

Bran  Muffins 

1  cup  bran.  1  well-beaten  egg. 

Yi  cup  flour.  Y2  cup  milk  (sweet  or  sour). 

Y  teaspoon  salt.  3  tablespoons  molasses. 

Y2  teaspoon  soda.  1  tablespoon  melted  shortening. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  salt,  soda  and  baking  powder,  then 
add  the  bran.  Beat  egg  well,  add  milk  and  molasses,  com- 
bine mixtures,  beat  well,  add  shortening.  Drop  in  hot, 
well-greased  muffin  pans  and  bake  in  a  medium  oven  20 
to  30  minutes.  One-half  cup  seedless  raisins  may  be 
added. 

These  muffins  are  best  when  allowed  to  cool,  split  open, 
toast,  butter,  put  together  and  serve  at  once. 

Southern  Com  Bread  or  Muffins 

2  cups  corn  meal.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 
2  cups  sour  or  buttermilk.  ing. 

2  teaspoons  salt.  2  eggs. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1 

tablespoon  cold  water. 

Put  milk,  corn  meal,  salt,  sugar  and  shortening  in  a 
double  boiler  and  let  steam  10  minutes,  but  no  longer. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [213] 

Remove  from  fire,  turn  into  mixing  bowl,  separate  eggs 
and  beat  well,  adding  yolks  to  corn  meal  mixture,  then 
folding  in  well-beaten  white  of  eggs  carefully.  Add  dis- 
solved soda  last,  still  folding,  and  bake  either  as  muffins 
or  in  shallow  pan,  well-greased,  using  a  hot  oven. 

If  iron  muffin  pans  are  used,  they  should  be  heated  be- 
fore greasing.  Heavy  muffin  pans  will  always  produce  a 
better  muffin  than  tin. 

Com  Meal  and  Rice  Bread  or  Muffins 

1  cup  cooked  rice.  1  well-beaten  egg. 

1  cup  corn  meal.  1  cup  milk. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 

1  teaspoon  salt.  ing. 

M  cup  sugar. 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  add  rice  to  milk,  beaten  egg,  dry 
ingredients  and  melted  shortening.  Bake  in  well-greased 
shallow  pan  or  heated  and  greased  muffin  pans  in  a  hot 
oven  about  20  minutes. 

Cooked  hominy  may  be  used  instead  of  the  rice. 

Golden  Com  Bread  or  Muffins 

1  cup  com  meal.  1  egg. 

1  cup  flour.  1  cup  milk. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 

]4  cup  sugar.  ing. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients.  Beat  egg  well,  add  milk,  dry 
ingredients  and  melted  shortening.  Bake  in  a  well- 
greased  shallow  pan  in  a  hot  oven  or  in  heated,  well- 
greased  muffin  pans. 

Spoon  Bread 

2  cups  milk.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  corn  meal.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

3  eggs.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

Heat  milk,  add  corn  meal  cook  until  thick.  Take  from 
stove,  add  salt,  sugar,  egg  yolks  well  beaten.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, fold  in  white  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  well- 
greased  baking  dish  about  40  minutes  in  a  medium  oven. 
Serve  with  spoon  from  dish. 


[214]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Rice  Muffins 

1  cup  flour.  1  egg,  beaten. 

H  teaspoon  salt.  1  cup  milk. 

14  cup  sugar.  1  cup  cooked  rice. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  tablespoon  melted  shortening. 

Sift  first  four  ingredients;  add  milk  to  beaten  egg,  then 
rice,  dry  ingredients  and  melted  shortening.  Beat  until 
smooth  and  bake  in  well-greased  heated  muffin  pans  in  a 
hot  oven  about  25  minutes. 

Rolled  Oat  Muffins 

1  cup  rolled  oats,  cooked.  1  well-beaten  egg. 

1  cup  flour.  1  cup  of  milk. 

H  teaspoon  salt.  1  tablespoon   melted    shorten- 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  ing. 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder;  add  cooked 
rolled  oats  to  milk,  adding  beaten  egg;  then  gradually 
beat  in  the  sifted  ingredients,  adding  shortening  last. 
Bake  in  well-greased  heated  muffin  pans  in  a  hot  oven 
about  20  minutes.  Any  left-over  cooked  cereal  may  be 
utilized  in  this  manner. 


CHAPTER  TEN 

PASTRY 
PIES 


2161  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 


Pastry  and  Pies 


JONTRARY  to  the  general  opinion,  pastry  is  not  hard 
jto  make.  In  fact,  once  the  fundamental  principles 
jare  understood,  pastry  is  much  easier  and  more 
'quickly  made  than  cake.  And  if  pastry  is  not  of  the 
best,  crisp  and  flaky,  then  it  should  be  dropped  from  the 
list  of  desserts,  because  tough,  soggy  pie  crust  is  neither 
appetizing  nor  wholesome. 

Pie  is  not  an  economical  dish  and  poor  pies  are  a  waste 
of  good  material,  for  they  should  not  be  eaten.  When 
making  pastry,  keep  these  rules  in  mind.  Fat  makes  a  pie 
crust  crisp,  therefore,  to  economize  on  shortening  will 
produce  poor  pastry.  The  amount  of  air  which  is  incor- 
porated in  the  dough  makes  the  crust  flaky,  so  the  dough 
requires  careful  handling.  Water  makes  pastry  tough, 
and  only  enough  should  be  used  to  hold  the  dough  together. 
Pastry  flour  is  recommended  because  it  absorbs  less  mois- 
ture than  a  strong  flour.  However,  the  regular  family 
flour  will  give  good  results. 

If  all  the  ingredients  are  cold  the  dough  will  be  much 
easier  to  handle.  Warm  shortening  absorbs  the  flour, 
making  a  dense  mixture  in  which  no  air  is  inclosed,  and 
which  becomes  sticky  and  difficult  to  roll  on  the  board. 
Chopping  the  fat  into  the  flour  is  recommended.  If 
rubbed  in  with  the  finger  tips  the  warmth  of  the  fingers 
will  heat  the  fat  somewhat  unless  the  manipulation  is 
quick  and  skillful.  Do  not  rub  or  chop  the  fat  into  the 
flour  too  thoroughly;  mix  until  the  consistency  of  coarse 
meal.  Plain  crisp  pastry  has  all  the  shortening  added  to 
the  flour.  For  flaky  pastry  only  half  shortening  is  added 
to  the  flour  and  the  remainder  is  rolled  into  the  dough  after 
the  liquid  has  been  added. 

When  adding  the  cold  water  use  a  knife  for  mixing,  add 
very  slowly,  using  only  enough  to  hold  the  mixture  to- 
gether. If  too  much  water  is  used  it  will  be  necessary  to 
use  more  flour  when  the  dough  is  rolled  out,  and  if  that  is 
the  case  the  pastry  will  be  tough  from  handling  and  the  fat 
and  flour  will  not  be  in  the  right  proportion.  Use  only  a 
sprinkling  of  flour  to  keep  the  molding  board  dry,  so  that 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [217] 

the  dough  may  be  rolled  easily.  After  rolling,  the  pastry 
should  be  allowed  to  stand,  closely  covered,  in  a  cool  place. 
The  moisture  acts  on  the  gluten  in  the  flour,  making  it 
much  easier  to  roll.  Handle  the  dough  as  quickly  and  as 
lightly  as  possible.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  for  no  matter  how 
carefully  the  dough  has  been  made,  if  not  properly  baked 
the  pie  will  be  a  failure. 

Unless  carefully  baked,  undercrusts  are  often  soggy.  For 
this  reason  pastry  shells  baked  without  the  filling  will  give 
the  best  results.  If,  however,  a  filled  two-crust  pie  is 
desired,  do  not  put  the  pastry  and  filling  together  until 
the  oven  is  ready  to  receive  them,  for  the  moisture  of  the 
filling  will  soak  into  the  pie  crust. 

Pie  crust  should  be  rolled  out  to  about  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  in  thickness.  When  lining  the  pan,  lay  the  crust  on 
loosely  and  allow  it  to  come  a  little  over  the  edge.  The 
scissors  will  be  found  the  most  convenient  means  of  cutting 
the  dough.  If  the  pastry  is  stretched  it  will  shrink  and 
probably  break  while  baking.  When  making  fruit  pies 
which  may  be  very  juicey,  the  undercrust  can  be  brushed 
over  with  unbeaten  white  of  an  egg,  which  coagulates  as 
soon  as  the  heat  reaches  it  and  makes  an  impervious  coat- 
ing. Or  the  bottom  crust  may  be  sprinkled  with  very  fine 
dry  bread  crumbs  or  with  a  little  flour  which  will  absorb  the 
excessive  moisture  at  once  and  prevent  the  crust  from 
becoming  soaked. 

After  the  filling  is  put  in,  the  top  crust  is  placed  in 
position;  this  should  be  rolled  out  about  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  thick  also,  and  should  extend  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  beyond  the  pie  plate.  Then  fold  the  top  crust  under 
the  bottom  one  and  flute  the  edge  either  with  the  sfinger 
or  a  fork.  Perforate  the  top  crust  so  that  the  steam  may 
escape — or  the  crust  will  be  soggy  on  the  under  side  and 
puff^  up  in  the  center.  If  a  very  dark  brown  is  desired  the 
top  crust  may  be  brushed  over  lightly  with  milk.  When 
making  very  juicy  pies  allow  one  tablespoon  of  flour  to 
each  cupful  of  sugar  used.  Mix  sugar  and  flour  until  well 
blended,  then  sprinkle  over  the  fruit.  Or  the  pie  may  be 
bound  around  the  edge  with  a  narrow  strip  of  cloth  which 
has  been  dipped  in  either  milk  or  water. 


[218]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

When  making  pastry  shells  for  a  one-crust  pie,  invert  a 
deep  pie  pan  and  place  the  pastry  on  it,  pinching  the  edges 
to  make  a  deep  border.  Prick  the  pastry  in  several  places 
with  a  fork.  Place  in  a  hot  oven;  in  about  ten  minutes  the 
shell  should  be  a  golden  color.  It  should  be  watched  care- 
fully until  ready  to  take  from  the  oven.  Remove  from  the 
tin  and  place  the  filling  in  the  shell. 

Pastry  for  several  pies  may  be  made  at  one  time,  rolled 
and  set  in  a  cool  place  in  a  well-covered  utensil  until 
needed.  This  is  sometimes  a  great  advantage  for  a  very 
busy  housewife.  Always  serve  pastry  fresh  or  reheat  if 
the  pie  is  a  day  old  and  it  will  become  crisp  and  fresh. 

There  really  is  no  mystery,  no  magic  possessed  by  a 
favored  few,  to  make  good  pastry.  Just  follow  the  general 
directions  and  you  will  surely  have  satisfactory  results. 

Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.     One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 

Plain  Pastry 

IK  cups  flour.  y%  cup  shortening. 

J^  teaspoon  salt.  3^  (about)  cup  cold  v/ater. 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together.  Chop  shortening  into  the 
flour;  add  liquid  gradually,  using  knife.  This  dough 
should  become  stiffs  enough  not  to  stick  to  the  sides  of  the 
mixing  bowl.  Place  dough  on  molding  board  and  roll  to 
yi  inch  thickness.  Then  fold  one-third  of  this  sheet  of 
pastry  over  the  center,  fold  the  remaining  third  over  the 
first  fold,  then  fold  across.  Roll  to  one-fourth  inch  thick- 
ness again. 

This  pastry  can  be  used  at  once,  but  is  improved  if  al- 
lowed to  stand  several  hours.  By  folding  the  dough  in 
this  manner,  layers  of  air  are  inclosed,  which  expand  when 
the  pastry  is  placed  in  the  hot  oven,  making  the  pie  flaky. 
While  the  oven  should  be  hot  at  first  the  heat  should  be 
reduced  after  it  has  browned. 

Flaky  Pastry 

V/2  cups  flour.  y^  cup  butter. 

K  teaspoon  salt.  K  (about)  cup  of  cold  water. 

34  cup  shortening. 

Proceed  as  for  plain  pastry,  leaving  out  the  butter, 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [219] 

which  should  be  washed  in  cold  water  until  smooth  and 
elastic,  then  dried.  Roll  out  dough,  place  butter  in  the 
center,  fold  over  dough  as  directed  above,  and  roll  out. 
Repeat  this  twice.  Dough  is  then  ready  for  use.  If  butter 
breaks  through  the  dough,  set  aside  until  cool,  when  it  can 
be  easily  handled.  This  pastry  is  for  pastry  shells,  tarts, 
etc. 

Orange  Souffle  Pie 

1  cup  of  orange  juice  and  grated  4  tablespoons   corn   starch   or 
rind.  flour. 

1  lemon  and  grated  rind.  3  eggs,  separated. 
'ji  cup  of  sugar.  }4  cup  sugar. 

Heat  orange  and  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind  in  a  double 
boiler.  Mix  ^  cup  of  sugar  and  flour  until  well  blended; 
add  to  hot  juice  and  cook  until  thick.  Beat  egg  yolks,  add 
to  hot  mixture  and  cook  5  minutes.  Beat  egg  whites  until 
stiff",  add  X  cup  sugar.  Fold  into  hot  mixture  and  pour  into 
a  baked  pastry  shell.  Place  in  a  slow  oven  and  bake  until 
the  top  is  a  delicate  brown,  about  eight  minutes.  This 
last  may  be  omitted  if  wished.  Cool  thoroughly  before 
serving. 

Butterscotch  Pie 

114  cups  brown  sugar.  1  egg,  beaten. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  cup  scalded  milk. 
4  tablespoons    corn   starch   or      J^  cup  cold  milk. 

flour.  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavoring. 

2  eggs,  separated. 

Mix  flour  or  corn  starch  with  cold  milk  to  a  smooth 
paste;  add  to  hot  milk  and  cook  over  hot  water  until  thick, 
about  IS  minutes.  Beat  1  egg  and  2  egg  yolks  and  add  to 
the  thickened  mixture.  While  the  first  mixture  is  cooking 
put  the  sugar  and  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  cook,  stirring 
constantly  until  perfectly  blended  and  sugar  is  somewhat 
melted.  Add  this  to  the  other  mixture,  cook  until  thick. 
Add  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  baked  pastry  shell.  When 
cool,  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  very  stilF.  Add  gradually 
4  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Pile  on 
top  of  pie  and  set  in  a  slow  oven  until  a  delicate  brown, 
about  eight  minutes. 


[220]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Apricot  Tart 

Drain  and  press  cooked  dried  or  canned  apricots  through 
a  coarse  sieve,  having  \}4.  cups  of  apricot  pulp.  Add  2 
tablespoons  of  orange  juice.  Pour  into  a  baked  pastry 
shell,  and  cover  the  entire  surface  with  cooked  apricots, 
cut  side  up.  Place  a  blanched  almond  in  the  center  of  each 
apricot  to  simulate  a  pit.  Melt  any  clear  amber  jelly  and 
pour  over  the  top  to  glaze.  Jelly  may  be  made  of  ^  cup 
of  hot  apricot  juice  to  which  has  been  added  1  teaspoon  of 
gelatine  soaked  in  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water.  Cool  some- 
what before  pouring  over  the  fruit  and  set  aside  to  become 
firm. 

Pumpkin  or  Squash  Pie 

IJ^  cups  milk.  M  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

2  eggs.  J^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1}/^  cups  cooked  pumpkin. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  J^  cup  orange  marmalade. 
1  teaspoon  ginger. 

Put  ingredients  in  upper  part  of  a  double  boiler  and 
cook  until  somewhat  thick.  Pour  into  a  pastry  lined  pie 
dish  and  bake  until  firm,  having  oven  hot  when  pastry  is 
first  put  in  but  immediately  reducing  the  heat. 


Lemon  Meringue  Pie 

IJ^  cups  boiling  water.  2  teaspoons  butter. 

1  cup  sugar.  4  tablespoons  flour. 

yi  cup  of  lemon  juice.  2  egg  yolks. 

Grated  rind  of  lemon.  1  egg. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour;  add  the  boiling  water  stirring 
constantly.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  thick,  then  add 
butter,  beaten  egg  yolks  and  egg,  lemon  rind  and  juice. 
Stir  constantly,  cooking  until  thick.  Pour  into  a  baked 
pastry  shell.  Cool  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  by 
beating  2  egg  whites  until  stiff  then  add  gradually  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  beating  well.  Fold  in  2  more  tablespoons 
of  sugar  and  pile  on  top  of  lemon  filling.  Bake  on  the  top 
grate  of  a  very  moderate  oven  about  eight  minutes. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [221] 

Custard  Pie 

1}4  cups  scalded  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

3  eggs.  Nutmeg. 

%  cup  sugar. 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar  and  vanilla,  then  add  the 
hot  milk  and  pour  into  a  pastry  lined  pie  dish  and  sprinkle 
top  with  nutmeg  Have  oven  hot  when  pie  is  first  placed 
in  the  oven  but  immediately  reduce  the  heat. 

Apple  Pie 

Use  rather  tart  apples.  Peel,  core  and  slice  very 
thin.  Arrange  apples  in  a  pastry  lined  pie  plate.  Mix 
}4  teaspoonful  of  ground  nutmeg  with  }4  cup  of  sugar; 
sprinkle  over  the  apple  and  break  1  tablespoonful  of  butter 
into  bits  and  dot  over  the  top.  Adjust  top  crust,  place  in 
a  hot  oven,  reduce  the  heat  in  ten  minutes  and  cook  until 
apples  are  tender  about  40  minutes.  Hot  apple  pie  is 
particularly  good  served  with  a  hard  sauce. 

Apple  Tart 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  flaky  pastry.  Fill  with  cold  apple 
sauce.  Peel  and  core  2  apples.  Cut  in  quarters,  then  slice 
as  thin  as  possible  and  arrange  in  rows  around  the  pie  on 
top  of  the  apple  sauce  allowing  each  slice  to  overlap  the 
preceding  slice.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  ground 
nutmeg  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  crust  is  baked  and 
the  apple  slices  tender.  Melt  >^  glass  of  jelly  over  hot 
water  beating  with  a  fork  and  if  necessary  add  a  little  hot 
water.  Pour  over  the  top  of  the  pie  to  glaze.  Set  aside  to 
cool.  This  is  a  very  attractive  pie.  The  jelly  can  be  made 
of  the  apple  skins  and  cores  left  from  the  apple  sauce. 
Cover  with  hot  water  and  cook  until  skins  are  soft,  then 
strain.  Return  to  fire,  cook  about  10  minutes,  add  equal 
quantity  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  To  test,  drop 
a  little  on  a  cold  saucer  if  thick  it  is  cooked  enough. 

Strawberry  Tart 

Bake  a  pastry  shell.  Cook  one  cup  of  strawberries  with 
^2  cup  of  sugar.  Strain  and  add  2  teaspoons  of  granualted 
gelatine  which  has  been  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  of  cold 


[222]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

water.  Fill  the  baked  pastry  shell,  with  fresh  hulled  straw- 
berries. Pour  the  cooled  strawberry  mixture  over  the  top 
and  set  aside  to  become  firm.  Garnish  with  whipped 
cream. 

Pumpkin  or  Nut  Pie 

1  cup    cooked    pumpkin  or        1  teaspoon  ginger. 

squash.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

K  cup  sugar.  2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Mix  in  the  order  given.  Bake  until  firm  in  a  pan  lined 
with  pastry.  When  cold  cover  with  whipped  cream 
flavored  with  vanilla.  Cream  may  be  put  on  with  a  pastry 
bag.    Sprinkle  finely  chopped  nuts  over  the  top. 

Cranberry  Pie 

1  quart  cranberries.  2  cups  sugar. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 

Put  cranberries  in  boiling  water  and  cook  covered  for 
10  minutes.  Remove  cover,  add  sugar  and  cook  5  min- 
utes longer.  Line  tin  with  pastry,  fill  with  the  cran- 
berries, put  strips  of  pastry  over  the  top  and  bake. 

Date  Pie 

2  cups  milk.  \i  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  dates,  stoned.  Few  grains  nutmeg. 

2  eggs. 

Cook  dates  with  milk  in  double  boiler  for  5  minutes. 
Strain  and  rub  through  a  sieve,  then  add  eggs  and  salt. 
Have  tin  lined  with  pastry,  add  filling  and  bake  as  a 
custard  pie.  When  ready  to  serve  cover  with  whipped 
cream. 

Prune  Pie 

2  cups  prunes.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

J^  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

2  teaspoons  butter. 

Wash  prunes  and  soak  in  cold  water  to  cover  2  hours  or 
more.  Cook  slowly  in  same  water  until  soft.  Remove 
stones,  cut  prunes  in  quarters,  and  mix  with  sugar  and 
lemon  juice.  Line  plate  with  pastry,  cover  with  prunes, 
pour  over  the  prune  juice,  dot  with  butter,  dredge  with 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [223] 

flour,  put  on  upper  crust  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Or, 
instead  of  upper  crust,  use  strips  of  pastry  crossed  in 
lattice  fashion. 

Prune  Cream  Filling 

1  cup  cooked  pitted  prunes  put  2  eggs. 

through  coarse  sieve.  }4  cup  sugar. 

J^  cup  chopped  walnuts.  1  teaspoon  flour. 

1  cup  scalded  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mix  sugar  and  flour;  add  to  beaten  eggs;  pour  the  scalded 
milk  over  the  egg  mixture.  Add  prune  pulp  and  walnuts, 
mix  well  and  pour  into  a  pan  lined  with  pastry;  sprinkle 
nutmeg  over  the  top.    Bake  as  for  custard  pie. 

Raisin  Pie 

IJ^  cups  seeded  raisins.  1  tablespoon  flour. 

IK  cups  boiling  water.  3^  cup  sugar. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one-  J^  cup  finely  chopped  walnuts, 
half  lemon. 

Cook  raisins  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  Mix  flour 
and  sugar  and  add  to  rasins,  stirring  until  thick.  Add 
lemon  and  walnuts,  cool  slightly  and  bake  between  two 
crusts. 

Rhubarb  Pie  with  Meringue 

2  cups  cooked  rhubarb.  Grated  rind  of  K  orange  or 

1  cup  sugar.  lemon. 

2  eggs,  separated.  1  baked  pastry  shell. 
1  tablespoon  flour. 

Wash  fresh  rhubarb  and  cut  into  inch  pieces.  Cover 
with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  boiling  point  is  reached. 
Drain  off  all  juice.  Measure  2  cupfuls  of  rhubarb  for 
each  pie.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  and  set  over  hot  water. 
Mix  flour  and  sugar  and  add  to  rhubarb,  stirring  until 
mixture  thickens  somewhat.  Add  the  well  beaten  yolks, 
cook  about  5  minutes,  add  grated  orange  rind  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  orange  marmalade;  cool,  then  pour  into  the 
baked  pastry  shell.  Beat  the  2  egg  whites  until  stiffs, 
gradually  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  then  fold  in  2  more 
tablespoons  of  sugar.  Pile  on  top  of  pie  and  bake  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  8  minutes. 


[224: 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 


Cheese  Cake 


13^  cups  scalded  milk. 

3  eggs. 

%  cups  sugar. 


IJ^  cups  cottage  cheese. 
1  teaspoon  almond  flavoring. 


Beat  eggs  separately,  add  sugar  to  yolks  and  beat  until 
creamy;  then  pour  hot  milk  over  the  mixture,  add  cheese 
and  flavoring;  then  fold  in  the  well-beaten  egg  whites, 
line  a  deep  pan  with  pastry,  pour  in  the  mixture.  It  will 
take  about  45  to  60  minutes  to  bake.  Test  by  plunging 
knife  through  the  center;  if  it  comes  out  clean  the  cheese 
custard  is  cooked  sufficiently. 

Meringue  for  Pies  or  Puddings 

2  egg  whites.  3^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

4  tablespoons  sugar. 

Beat  egg  whites  until  very  stiff^;  then  add  half  the  sugar, 
one  tablespoon  at  a  time,  beating  each  one  in  well  before 
adding  the  next.  Fold  in  the  remaining  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing. Spread  on  top  of  filling  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  a  golden  brown — about  8  minutes.  Let  pie  cool 
somewhat  before  adding  meringue. 


Mince  Meat 


First  Part : 
6  cups  cooked  meat,  chopped. 

3  cups  suet,  chopped. 
12  cups  apples,  chopped. 

4  cups  sugar. 

2  cups  molasses. 

1  quart  boiled  cider. 

4  packages  seeded  raisins. 
4  packages  seedless  raisins. 

2  cups  shredded  citron. 


Second  Part : 
2  oranges,juice  and  grated  rind. 
2  lemons,  juice andgrated  rind. 

1  tablespoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon. 
2  tablespoons  nutmeg. 

2  tablespoons  allspice. 
1  tablespoon  cloves. 
1  tablespoon  almond  extract. 
1  glass  currant  jelly. 


Put  all  ingredients  of  first  part  in  a  large  kettle  and 
cook  very  slowly  until  apples  are  cooked  and  suet  melted. 
When  cooked  add  ingredients  in  second  part.  Put  in 
sterilized  jars  and  seal  tightly. 

Canned  Fruit  Pie  Fillings 

Drain  all  juice  from  fruit.  Allow  >^  cupful  of  juice  for 
each  pie.    Put  in  a  sauce  pan  to  heat,  mix  1  tablespoonful 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [225] 

of  corn  starch,  flour  or  arrowroot  with  enough  cold  water 
to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Add  to  hot  juice  and  cook  stirring 
constantly  until  the  mixture  thickens;  add  to  fruit  and  cool 
before  using.  One  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  will  add 
greatly  to  the  flavor  of  all  fruit  pies.  Line  a  deep  pie  plate 
with  plain  pastry,  pour  in  the  cold  fruit  mixture,  place  on 
upper  crust  and  bake  about  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


CHAPTER  ELEVEN 

GENERAL  RULES  FOR  MIXING  AND 

BAKING  CAKES 

CAKE  FILLINGS  AND  ICINGS 

SMALL  CAKES 

COOKIES 

DOUGHNUTS 


[228]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Cakes  with  Shortening 

INCE  cake  comes  on  the  list  of  luxuries,  the  utmost 
care  should  be  taken  both  in  the  method  of  prep- 
aration and  in  the  quality  of  material  used.  It  is 
not  difficult  to  make  a  good  cake  if  good  materials 
are  used  and  care  in  measuring  and  combining  ingredients 
is  exercised.  However,  the  baking  requires  more  study 
and  care  than  the  mixing,  for  no  matter  how  well  you  have 
put  the  cake  batter  together,  if  the  oven  is  not  right  the 
cake  will  be  a  failure.  In  the  first  place,  choose  a  reliable 
recipe,  then  assemble  all  necessary  materials  and  utensils. 
Pans  should  be  prepared  and  oven  heated  before  mixing 
the  cake  batter.  If  the  ingredients  are  all  measured  be- 
fore actual  mixing  begins  the  work  will  be  much  easier 
and  unexpected  interruptions  will  not  create  a  doubt  as 
to  whether  all  the  materials  have  been  used.  For  success 
care  must  be  taken  in  measuring,  all  measurements  being 
level.  For  butter  cakes  there  are  two  ways  to  add  the 
shortening;  for  inexpensive  cakes  containing  a  small 
quantity  of  shortening  the  result  will  be  found  satisfactory 
if  the  fat  is  melted  and  added  to  the  batter  after  the  cake 
is  all  mixed.  For  the  richer  cakes,  where  ^  cup  or  more 
of  shortening  is  used,  the  shortening  is  beaten  to  a  cream, 
or  until  smooth  and  waxy.  This  can  be  accomplished 
easily  if  the  mixing  bowl  is  rinsed  with  hot  water,  then 
wiped  dry  before  the  shortening  is  placed  in  it.  Add  the 
sugar  gradually  to  the  creamed  shortening  and  continue 
to  beat  until  the  mixture  resembles  whipped  cream. 

Beating  the  butter  to  a  cream  first  makes  the  creaming 
of  butter  and  sugar  an  easy  process.  The  eggs  may  then 
be  added  whole,  one  at  a  time,  and  beating  the  mixture 
thoroughly  each  time;  or  the  eggs  may  be  separated, 
beating  the  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored  and  the 
whites  until  stiff.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  to  the  creamed 
butter  and  sugar  mixture;  add  the  sifted  dry  ingredients 
alternately  with  the  liquid,  beating  the  mixture  well.  Add 
some  flour  to  the  mixture  before  any  of  the  liquid  is  used. 
This  prevents  the  mixture  from  curdling  which,  while  it 
does  not  spoil  the  cake,  it  will  not  be  of  the  right  texture. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [229] 

Adding  the  whole  unbeaten  egg  to  the  batter  produces  a 
close  textured,  moist  cake,  while  beating  the  eggs  sepa- 
rately gives  a  light  dryer  cake.  Water  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  milk,  the  mixture  will  be  of  a  different  texture. 
If  eggs  are  beaten  separately  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
should  be  carefully  folded  into  the  mixture.  The  more  the 
cake  is  beaten  before  the  egg  whites  are  added  the  firmer 
will  be  the  texture  of  the  cake. 

Cakes  should  be  baked  as  soon  as  mixed.  A  great  deal 
depends  on  the  proper  baking,  and  the  best  way  to  assure 
satisfactory  results  is  to  time  the  cake  and  divide  the  time 
of  baking  into  quarters.  In  the  first  quarter  the  mixture 
should  rise  in  the  pan;  in  the  second  quarter  it  should 
continued  to  rise  and  brown  in  spots;  in  the  third  quarter 
the  top  of  the  cake  should  be  uniformly  browned,  and  in 
the  last  quarter  the  cake  should  shrink  from  the  sides  of 
the  pan  and  it  should  be  baked. 

If  in  doubt  as  to  whether  the  cake  should  be  taken  from 
the  oven  test  it  by  touching  lightly  in  the  center.  If 
baked,  the  mixture  will  spring  back,  but  if  not  quite 
baked  it  will  hold  the  imprint  of  the  finger. 

This  rule  for  timing  applies  to  all  cakes,  whether  layer 
or  loaf,  or  where  a  slow  or  medium  oven  is  used. 

The  time  for  baking  will  vary  a  little  for  different  ovens, 
but  the  average  time  for  a  medium-sized  layer  cake  is 
from  15  to  20  minutes.  Loaf  cakes  3  inches  thick  will 
require  about  40  minutes;  sheet  cakes  and  cup  cakes 
about  25  minutes.  Cakes  baked  in  a  brick  shaped  pan 
will  require  an  hour  or  longer.  A  moderate  oven  will  give 
the  best  results  for  nearly  all  cakes. 

If  the  batter  rises  in  a  cone  in  the  center  you  are  using 
too  hot  an  oven,  and  a  crust  has  formed  before  the  mix- 
ture has  had  time  to  rise;  or  too  much  flour  has  been  used. 

When  the  cake  is  baked,  it  should  be  allowed  to  cool 
before  being  turned  from  the  pan,  and  it  should  cool  so 
that  there  will  be  a  circulation  of  air  about  it,  to  prevent 
the  steam  from  condensing  and  giving  a  moist  surface  to 
the  cake. 

A  few  formulae  are  all  that  is  required  to  make  many 
varieties  of  cake.  Flavorings,  fruits,  nuts  and  the  various 
fillings  and  icings  will  give  an  unlimited  variety  even 


[230]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

though  the  same  cake  batter  is  used.  The  advantage  of 
using  one  or  two  foundation  recipes  lies  mainly  in  the  fact 
that  practice  makes  perfect  and  one  can  soon  become 
expert  in  mixing  and  baking  the  cake  better. 

There  is  a  type  of  cake  very  popular  that  does  not  re- 
quire a  standard  cake  batter.  These  cakes  are  more  like 
meringues.  They  are  very  easy  to  make  but  somewhat  ex- 
pensive. These  require  a  special  type  of  pan  called  a 
spring  form.  The  rim  is  removable,  leaving  the  cake  on  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  for  it  cannot  be  removed  until  cut  in 
slices.  Many  very  attractive  cakes  are  made  in  these 
spring  forms. 

Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.    One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 

Foundation  Cake  Recipe 

}/%  cup  shortening.  3  eggs. 

\}/i  cups  sugar.  H  cup  milk  or  water. 

2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  tea-  1  teaspoon  each  of  vanilla  and 
spoons  of  baking  powder.  lemon  extract. 

Cream  shortening  until  it  may  be  beaten  with  a  spoon, 
add  sugar  gradually,  continue  to  cream.  Separate  the 
whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Beat  yolks  until  thick  and 
lemon  colored,  add  to  creamed  butter  and  sugar;  then 
add  flour  and  liquid  alternately;  fold  in  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  eggs  and  flavoring.  Bake  in  3  well-greased 
layer-cake  pans  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Walnut  Loaf  Cake 

Follow  foundation  recipe,  adding  Yz  cup  of  finely 
chopped  walnuts  to  the  cake  batter  before  folding  in  the 
beaten  white  of  eggs.  Bake  in  a  greased  loaf  cake  pan 
about  45  minutes  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

White  Cake 

Follow  foundation  recipe,  using  the  whites  of  4  eggs  in 
place  of  3  whole  eggs.  Mix  the  cake  as  directed,  folding 
in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs  last.  For  a  loaf  cake 
almond  and  lemon  flavoring  may  be  used.  Bake  in  a 
greased  loaf-cake  pan  about  45  minutes,  or  in  3  greased 
layer-cake  pans  20  minutes. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [231] 

Golden  Cake 

Follow  foundation  recipe,  using  4  egg  yolks  and  1  whole 
egg.  Mix  cake  as  directed,  adding  the  well-beaten  yolks 
and  egg  to  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar.  Bake  in  a  loaf 
or  in  layers. 

Devil's  Food  Cake 

3^  cup  butter.  3^  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  milk  or  water. 
4  eggs.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2}/^  cups  flour.  2  squares  unsweetened  choco- 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  late  melted  over  hot  water. 

Cream  shortening,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  cream  together 
well;  beat  yolk  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  add 
1  cup  of  sugar  and  combine  the  two  mixtures.  Add  flour, 
sifted  with  baking  powder  and  cinnamon,  alternately  with 
liquid.  When  well  mixed,  add  flavoring  and  melted  choc- 
olate, then  fold  in  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Ground  chocolate 
Q/2  cup)  may  be  sifted  with  flour  replacing  melted 
chocolate.     Bake  in  medium  oven  in  greased  pans. 

This  amount  of  batter  will  make  4  layers  or  2  small 
loaves. 

One  Egg  Chocolate  Cake 

First  Part :  Second  Part : 

2  squares  xmsweetened  choco-      J/^  cup  shortening, 
late  melted  or  ]4.  cup  grovmd      IK  cups  sugar, 
chocolate.  1  egg. 

K  cup  sugar.  %  cup  milk. 

}/i  cup  milk.  2  cups  flour. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  then  add  sugar  and  milk 
and  cook  until  thick  and  smooth.  Set  aside  to  cool 
slightly.  Cream  shortening,  add  1  cup  sugar,  gradually 
mixing  well.  Beat  egg,  add  remaining  3^  cup  of  sugar 
and  combine  mixtures;  when  well  mixed  add  flour  (sifted 
with  baking  powder)  and  milk  alternately,  beating  well. 
Add  flavoring  and  the  chocolate  mixture.  Pour  in  well- 
greased  layer-cake  pans  and  bake  about  15  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

This  mixture  may  also  be  baked  in  a  loaf  cake. 


[232]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Christmas  Fruit  Cake 

Yi  cup  butter.  H  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

3  eggs.  2  cups  seeded  raisins. 

1  cup  flour.  2  cups  seedless  raisins. 

yi  cup  ground  chocolate.  Y^  cup  shredded  citron. 

1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  Y  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
nutmeg.  1  teaspoon  cold  water. 

Yi  teaspoon  each  cloves  and  all- 
spice. 

Mix  fruit  well;  sift  flour,  spices  and  chocolate;  cream 
butter  until  v^^axy;  add  sugar,  gradually  beating  well;  add 
beaten  egg  yolks,  molasses,  vanilla  and  flour,  mixing  well. 
Combine  fruit  and  cake  batter;  when  well  mixed,  fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  eggs  and  the  dissolved  soda. 
Line  a  baking  pan  with  greased  paper,  pour  in  the  cake 
batter  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  about  2  hours. 

Pound  Cake 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  each  of  lemon  and 
5  eggs.  vanilla  flavoring. 

Cream  butter  until  waxy;  add  sugar  gradually,  cream- 
ing well.  Separate  eggs;  beat  yolks  until  thick.  Add  to 
butter  and  sugar  mixture.  Gradually  add  flour,  beating 
batter  constantly;  add  flavoring  and  carefully  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  No  baking  powder  is  required. 
Less  beating  will  be  necessary,  however,  if  one  scant  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  is  used.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan 
in  a  slow  oven  about  1  hour. 

Spice  Cake 

Yi,  cup  shortening.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

V/^  cups  brown  sugar.  Yi  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

2  eggs    well    beaten    without      Y  teaspoon  cloves. 

separating.  Y  teaspoon  allspice. 

2  cups  flour  sifted  with  3  tea-      1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
spoons   of  baking  powder.      Yi  cup  cold  coffee. 

Sift  flour  with  spices  and  baking  powder.  Cream  short- 
ening; add  sugar  gradually,  beating  well;  add  beaten  eggs 
then  alternately  the  flour  and  coffee.  Add  flavoring  and 
pour  in  a  well-greased  shallow  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [233] 

oven  between  45  and  50  minutes.     One  cup  seedless  or 
chopped  seeded  raisins  may  be  added  to  this  mixture, 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

]/2  cup  shortening.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

\)4,  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

2  eggs  well  beaten.  K  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

1  cup  seedless  raisins.  Vi  teaspoon  cloves. 

\^  cup  chopped  walnuts.  1  cup  hot  apple  sauce  (strained). 

2  cups  flour. 

Sift  flour,  spices  and  soda.  Cream  the  shortening,  beat 
in  the  sugar,  beaten  eggs,  raisins  and  nuts.  Add  flour  alter- 
nately with  the  apple  sauce.  Bake  in  a  shallow  well- 
greased  pan  about  1  hour,  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Quick  Cake 

2  eggs.  Yi  cup  milk  or  water. 

1  cup  sugar.  K  cup  melted  shortening. 

2  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  lemon. 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  except  sugar;  beat  eggs  until  very 
light,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  with  egg  beater.  When 
creamy,  add  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  liquid,  mix- 
ing well.  Add  flavoring  and  melted  shortening.  Bake  in 
2  layers  and  put  together  with  jelly  or  add  %  cup  chopped 
walnuts  and  bake  in  well-greased  muflSn  pans. 

Apple  or  Prune  Cake 

Use  quick  cake  foundation  recipe.  Pour  batter  in  a 
shallow,  well-greased  pan,  cover  top  with  thinly  sliced  ap- 
ples or  pitted  prunes,  placing  the  fruit  in  even  rows, 
sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  apples  are  cooked. 

This  cake  is  good,  hot  or  cold. 

Quick  Coffee  Cake 

Use  quick  cake  foundation  recipe.  Pour  batter  into 
a  well-greased  shallow  pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    Cut  in  squares. 


[234]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Boston  Cream  Pie 

Although  called  a  pie  this  dish  is  really  a  cake.  Make 
the  quick  cake  and  bake  in  2  layers.  For  one  cake  make 
y^  of  the  French  cream  filling.  When  both  cake  and 
filling  are  cold,  spread  the  filling  between  the  layers  and 
sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  the  top. 

Lady  Finger  Cake 

First  Part:  Second  Part: 

2  squares  unsweetened  choco-  Yi  cup  unsalted  butter. 

late  or  1  cup  ground  choco-  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  sifted. 

late.  4  egg  wliites  stiffly  beaten. 

K  cup  sugar.  3^  cup  finely  chopped  walnuts. 

|4  cup  cold  water.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

4  eggs  yolked,  beaten.  Yi  lb.  lady  fingers. 

Put  unsweetened  chocolate  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double 
boiler;  set  over  hot  water  to  melt.  When  melted  add  sugar, 
water  and  beaten  yolks.  Cook  until  very  thick,  stirring 
occasionally.  Ground  chocolate  needs  no  melting.  Set 
aside  until  thoroughly  chilled  then  prepare  second  part. 
Cream  the  butter  until  waxy;  gradually  add  sugar,  beat 
until  creamy,  then  add  vanilla  and  chopped  nuts.  Com- 
bine first  and  second  mixtures  and  when  thoroughly 
mixed  fold  in  the  stiflfly  beaten  egg  whites.  It  is  necessary 
to  have  a  pan  with  a  removable  rim  called  a  spring  form. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  split  lady  fingers,  then 
place  split  lady  fingers  close  together  all  around  the  sides 
of  the  pan.  If  pan  is  slightly  buttered  the  lady  fingers 
can  be  pressed  firmly  to  the  pan,  the  bottom  layer  of  lady 
fingers  will  help  keep  those  on  the  sides  in  place.  Pour  in  the 
chocolate  mixture,  cover  top  closely  with  lady  fingers  and 
set  the  cake  in  a  cool  place  for  at  least  12  hours  before 
serving.  It  will  become  firm  enough  to  slice.  Before  serv- 
ing carefully  remove  rim  of  pan  and  cover  the  top  with 
whipped  cream.  Decorate  with  cream  pressed  through 
a  pastry  bag  or  with  walnut  meats  or  cherries.  This  makes 
an  unusually  attractive  dessert  and  will  serve  12  persons. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [235] 

Crumb  Cake 

3  eggs  separated.  M  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

}/2  cup  sugar.  J^  cup  chopped  nuts. 

3  tablespoons  cracker  meal.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  egg  yolks,  add  sugar,  beat  until  creamy.  Add 
cracker  meal,  baking  powder  and  nuts,  carefully  fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  a  greased  spring 
form.  Bake  15  minutes  in  a  medium  oven.  Cool,  remove 
rim  of  pan.  To  serve— cover  top  of  cake  with  raspberry 
jam;  cover  jam  with  a  layer  of  finely  chopped  nuts;  cover 
nuts  with  a  layer  of  sweetened  whipped  cream  and  gar- 
nish top  with  walnut  meats,  maraschino  cherries,  or 
whipped  cream  pressed  through  a  pastry  bag  using  a  star 
tube. 

King  Cake 

First  Part:  Second  Part: 

V/2  cups  flour.  2  eggs  separated. 

]^  cup  shortening.  J^  cup  sugar. 

3^  teaspoon  salt.  }/2  cup  flour. 

M  cup  cold  water.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
J^  cup  raspberry  jam. 

Sift  flour  and  salt  and  rub  in  the  shortening  as  for  plain 
pastry.  Gradually  add  water  using  a  knife  for  mixing. 
Roll  on  a  very  slightly  floured  board  to  fit  a  round  cake 
pan,  reserving  the  remaining  dough  to  use  later.  Set  in  a 
cool  place.  For  the  second  part  beat  egg  whites  until  stiflF 
and  yolkfe  until  creamy,  add  sugar  gradually  to  yolks 
beating  well  with  the  egg  beater.  Add  flavoring  and  care- 
fully fold  in  the  flour  and  beaten  egg  whites.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pastry  lined  pan  with  jam  and  pour  the 
cake  mixture  over  that.  Roll  the  remaining  pastry  into 
an  oblong  strip  and  cut  into  lengths  ^  inch  wide  and  long 
enough  to  fit  loosely  over  the  top  of  the  pan.  Wet  the 
edges  wit)i  water  and  press  firmly  across  the  top  of  the 
pastry  shell.  Four  strips  each  way  crossing  lattice  fashion 
will  be  sufficient.  Place  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  reducing  the 
heat  in  10  minutes  to  moderate.  Bake  until  the  cake 
springs  back  if  touched  lightly  in  the  center.  Cool  before 
serving.  This  cake  is  like  that  sold  in  French  confectioners 
under  the  same  name. 


2361  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 


Sponge  Cakes 


|hen  eggs  reach  a  normal  price  it  Is  possible  to  in- 
dulge in  the  various  types  of  sponge  cakes  and 
even  angel  cake  does  not  seem  impossibly  extrava- 
gant. True  sponge  cakes  are  made  without  baking 
powder  and  are  light,  moist  and  delicate.  They  can  be 
given  to  children  and  those  who  cannot  eat  rich  cakes,  or 
cakes  containing  shortening.  An  endless  variety  of  small 
attractive  cakes  can  be  made  from  almost  any  good 
sponge  cake  formula,  and  are  suitable  for  almost  any 
occasion  but  particularly  attractive  for  afternoon  teas 
and  children's  parties.  A  true  sponge  cake  contains  no 
baking  powder  but  is  lightened  entirely  by  the  air  which 
has  been  beaten  into  the  eggs,  and  for  that  reason  a  whip 
egg-beater  should  be  used  to  beat  the  egg  whites,  as  this 
type  of  egg-beater  incorporates  approximately  3^  more 
air  than  a  rotary  egg  beater.  It  is  the  expansion  of  this 
air,  when  placed  in  the  oven,  that  leavens  the  cake  and 
the  more  air  incorporated,  the  lighter  the  cake  will  be. 
Sponge  cakes  made  with  baking  powder  do  not  require 
the  number  of  eggs  necessary  for  a  true  sponge  cake. 
Liquid  is  added  also  to  replace  eggs.  These  sponge  cakes 
may  be  beaten  with  a  rotary  egg  beater  for  the  baking 
powder  will  make  them  light.  Such  sponge  cakes  are 
quickly  and  easily  made  but  while  light  and  palatable  are 
never  so  delicate  nor  fine  in  texture  as  the  true  sponge 
cakes. 

Pans  containing  a  center  tube  are  the  most  satisfactory 
for  loaf  sponge  cake.  The  cakes  will  bake  more  evenly 
and  much  quicker  in  this  type  of  pan.  In  fact  for  the  best 
results  with  loaf  cakes  made  without  baking  powder,  a 
pan  should  be  kept  for  this  purpose  only,  for  it  should 
never  be  greased.  As  the  cake  rises  it  will  cling  to  the 
sides  of  an  ungreased  pan,  producing  a  lighter  cake.  For 
sponge  cakes  made  with  baking  powder  greased  pans 
should  be  used.  A  true  sponge  cake  should  be  cooled  in 
the  pan  in  which  it  is  baked;  having  the  pan  inverted;  in 
this  way,  the  moist  cell  walls  of  the  cake  will  not  settle, 
but  will  stretch,  making  the  cake  light.    Pans  come  pro- 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [237] 

vided  with  little  extensions  to  invert  them  or  the  pan  may 
be  raised  on  two  saucers.  The  air  must  circulate  around 
the  cake.  When  cool  the  cake  can  easily  be  removed  by 
running  a  flat  knife  between  the  cake  and  the  pan. 

Quickness  in  putting  sponge  cake  together  is  one  of  the 
essentials  to  success.  To  mix  a  true  sponge  cake,  separate 
the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  with  a 
rotary  egg  beater  until  very  creamy.  Add  the  sugar 
gradually,  beating  constantly;  add  flavoring.  Beat  the 
egg  whites  with  an  egg  whip  until  the  bowl  can  be  inverted. 
Fold  very  carefully  into  the  next  mixture,  then  care- 
fully fold  in  the  flour.  Do  not  beat  the  mixture  after  the 
flour  is  added,  simply  fold  the  ingredients  over  and  over 
until  all  are  well  mixed  or  blended.  If  beaten  or  stirred, 
most  of  the  work  of  inclosing  a  large  amount  of  air  will  be 
undone  by  breaking  these  air  bubbles.  The  cake  should 
be  put  in  the  pan  at  once  and  placed  in  a  moderate  oven. 

For  angel  cake  the  whites  of  the  eggs  are  beaten  with 
an  egg  whip  until  the  dish  can  be  inverted;  the  sugar  is 
carefully  folded  into  them,  adding  gradually;  then  the 
flour  folded  into  the  mixture  in  the  same  manner.  Use  a 
moderate  oven.  An  average  sized  loaf  sponge  cake  will 
require  about  50  minutes  to  bake. 

The  cheaper  sponge  cakes  where  few  eggs  and  baking 
powder  is  used  are  baked  in  a  hotter  oven  than  the  true 
sponge  cakes  and  may  be  baked  in  layers,  a  loaf,  small 
cakes,  or  baked  in  a  shallow  pan  and  cut  into  small  cakes. 

Sponge  cakes  are  wholesome  and  delicate  and  offer  a 
number  of  variations  to  be  used  for  almost  any  occasion. 


Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.    One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 

Angel  Cake 

^  cup  whites  of  eggs.  1  teaspoon   each   almond    and 

Yi  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  lemon  flavoring. 

Yi  cup  sugar.  H  cup  flour. 

Beat  egg  whites  until  foamy,  using  a  whip  egg-beater; 
add  cream  of  tartar,  then  beat  eggs  until  very  stiff  and 
dry.  This  is  most  important,  otherwise  the  cake  will  be 
tough  and  leathery.   Add  sugar  gradually,  carefully  fold- 


[238]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

ing  it  in;  then  add  flavoring  and  lastly  the  flour,  folding 
in  gradually.  Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  about  45  min- 
utes. 

This  makes  a  small  cake;  double  the  quantity  for  a 
larger  one,  baking  from  SO  to  60  minutes. 

True  Sponge  Cake 

5  egg  yolks.  J^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  each  lemon  and  va- 

1  cup  flour.  nilla. 

6  egg  whites. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick;  add  sugar  gradually, 
beating  with  the  egg-beater;  add  flavoring.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff  and  firm,  using  a  whip  egg- 
beater;  fold  carefully  into  the  egg  yolk  mixture,  then 
gradually  fold  in  the  flour.  Pour  into  an  ungreased  tube 
cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  50  minutes. 

This  formula  will  make  two  dozen  small  cakes. 

Plain  Sponge  Cake 

3  eggs .  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sugar.  34  teaspoon  salt. 

3  tablespoons,  water.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  flour.  1  teaspoon  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs  without  separating  until  light  and  creamy, 
add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  again  till  thick  and  very 
light  colored.  Add  water,  beat  again,  add  sifted  dry  in- 
gredients. Beat  well,  then  add  flavoring.  Pour  into  a 
greased  cake  pan,  one  with  center  tube  preferred,  and  bake 
about  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  or  bake  in  layers. 

Chocolate  Sponge  Cake 

Use  either  sponge  cake  recipe,  omitting  2  tablespoons 
of  flour  and  substituting  1  tablespoon  of  cocoa  or  2  of 
ground  chocolate.    Use  vanilla  flavoring  only. 

Jelly  Roll 

Use  plain  sponge  cake  foundation,  but  separate  the 
eggs,  beating  each  well.  Proceed  as  above,  adding  1 
tablespoon  of  melted  shortening  and  folding  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  last.    Have  a  shallow  pan  well 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [239] 

greased  and  covered  with  greased  paper.  Pour  in  cake 
mixture  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  between  10  and  12  min- 
utes. Turn  at  once  onto  a  cloth  which  has  been  sprinkled 
with  powdered  sugar,  remove  paper,  cut  off  crusts,  spread 
with  jelly  and  roll.  (This  must  be  done  quickly.)  Wrap 
in  cloth  until  cool  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Chocolate  Roll 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately..  ]/z  cup  ground  chocolate. 

]/z  cup  granulated  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  yolks  until  creamy  with  a  rotary  egg-beater;  add 
sugar  and  chocolate  gradually,  beating  well;  add  flavor- 
ing. Whip  egg  whites  until  very  stiff,  and  fold  carefully 
into  the  mixture.  Line  a  well  greased  pan  with  greased 
paper  and  pour  in  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  25  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  towel,  remove  paper  and 
roll  as  for  jelly  roll.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Whip  1  cup  of 
cream,  add  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Unroll  cake,  spread  with  whipped 
cream,  reroll  and  serve  with  a  chocolate  sauce. 


[240]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 


Icings  and  Fillings 


Cake  icings  and  fillings  have  improved  greatly  both 
in  quality  and  variety  from  those  used  a  generation 
ago.  Now  many  of  these  frostings  are  as  delicate  and 
fine  as  the  creamy  French  confectionery.  A  few  founda- 
tion recipes  form  the  basis  for  most  of  these  icings 
and  fillings,  and  when  these  are  once  mastered  it  will 
be  possible  to  produce  almost  any  variety.  The  de- 
velopment of  these  foundation  recipes  is  both  interest- 
ing and  simple.  The  uncooked  icings  are  the  easiest, 
for  very  little  skill  is  necessary  in  their  preparation. 

The  plain  confectioner's  icing  is  made  of  hot  water, 
powdered  or  confectioner's  sugar  and  flavoring. 

Other  liquids  than  water  offer  a  number  of  variations 
of  this  plain  recipe.  Cream,  with  vanilla  or  mocha  flavor- 
ing, makes  a  rich,  creamy  icing;  lemon  juice  may  replace 
a  portion  of  the  hot  water  for  lemon  icing;  pure  fruit 
juices,  such  as  orange,  pineapple,  etc.,  make  excellent 
icings  and  will  be  found  particularly  good  for  sponge 
cakes.  Strong,  hot  coffee  or  mocha  extract  may  replace 
the  hot  water,  making  the  mocha  icing. 

When  using  other  liquids  than  water  it  is  not  necessary 
to  heat  them.  Confectioners'  icing  will  become  firm  and 
glossy  soon  after  being  spread  on  the  cake.  It  never  be- 
comes hard  and  "sugary"  and  keeps  for  some  time,  and 
does  not  crumble  when  cut. 

Chocolate  confectioners'  icing  may  have  }i  cup  of 
chopped  nuts  added  or  equal  quantities  of  chopped  nuts 
and  chopped  raisins.  It  may  also  be  changed  somewhat 
by  using  either  vanilla  or  cinnamon  to  flavor.  This  plain 
foundation  recipe  has  many  possibilities  for  variety  and 
is  so  quickly  and  easily  made,  there  need  be  no  waste. 

The  quantities  given  in  the  recipe  will  ice  an  average- 
sized  cake.  If  this  quantity  is  not  right  for  the  size  cake 
you  wish,  a  little  practice  will  soon  teach  you  the  right 
proportions.  One  of  the  best  features  of  this  type  of  frost- 
ing is  that  you  are  really  unable  to  spoil  it.  If  you  have 
not  been  accurate  in  your  measurements  and  the  icing  is 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [241] 

too  thick  add  more  liquid  until  of  the  right  consistency, 
or  if  the  icing  is  too  thin  more  sugar  may  be  added. 

Butter  icings  are  also  uncooked  and  are  very  easily 
prepared.  This  type  of  icing  is  more  often  used  as  a  cake 
filling,  and  is  very  popular.  Unsalted  butter  will  give  the 
best  flavored  icing,  but  if  salted  butter  is  used  it  should 
be  well  washed  in  cold  water  to  remove  all  the  salt. 

The  cooked  icings  are  not  quite  so  easily  made.  This 
class  of  icing  has  much  greater  possibilities  for  variety 
than  the  uncooked  icing.  There  are  several  varieties  of 
boiled  icings,  but  this  usually  applies  to  a  sugar  syrup 
which  has  been  boiled  until  the  mixture  will  form  a  "soft 
ball"  when  tested  in  cold  water  (about  238  degrees  F.  on 
a  sugar  thermometer),  then  the  syrup  is  added  gradually 
to  the  well-beaten  white  of  egg.  To  test  carefully  dip  a 
teaspoon  into  the  syrup  and  drop  into  cold  water.  Roll 
between  the  fingers  under  the  water.  If  syrup  is  sticky 
it  is  not  cooked  enough;  if  hard  it  is  cooked  too  long.  It 
should  roll  in  a  soft  ball.  Always  use  a  fresh  cup  of  cold 
water  for  each  testing. 

This  icing  will  never  prove  a  failure  if  the  rules  and  de- 
tails of  the  process  are  carefully  followed.  Sugar  has  a 
tendency  to  crystallize  and  to  overcome  this,  care  must 
be  taken  when  mixing  the  water  and  sugar.  First  add 
the  sugar  to  the  saucepan,  then  carefully  pour  over  the 
water,  which  should  be  boiling  hot,  so  that  the  sugar  will 
dissolve  at  once.  Do  not  stir  and  cause  crystals  of  sugar 
to  adhere  to  the  sides  of  the  saucepan;  simply  mix  suffi- 
ciently to  dissolve  the  sugar,  then  cover  the  saucepan  and 
when  the  syrup  reaches  the  boiling  point  remove  the 
cover  and  cook  to  the  soft-ball  stage  without  stirring. 

By  covering  the  mixture  until  boiling  point  is  reached, 
the  steam  will  wash  down  any  grains  of  sugar  which  may 
have  gathered  on  the  sides  of  the  pan.  This  may  sound 
complicated,  but  is  really  very  simple,  and  if  these  pre- 
cautions are  taken  and  the  syrup  cooked  to  the  "soft- 
ball"  stage,  the  finished  icing  will  be  creamy.  If  these 
rules  are  not  followed,  if  the  syrup  is  stirred  while  cook- 
ing, or  if  cooked  too  long,  the  icing  will  be  hard  and 
sugary. 


[242]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

A  very  much  easier  cooked  icing  is  made  by  cooking 
the  syrup  over  hot  water  or  in  a  double  boiler.  This  is 
called  quick  icing. 

This  is  a  very  simple  and  satisfactory  method  and  if 
the  directions  are  followed  exactly  this  icing  may  be  used 
for  filling  and  icings  in  place  of  the  more  complicated 
boiled  frosting. 

Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.     One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 


Boiled  Icing 

13^  cups  granulated  sugar.  Yi  cup  hot  water. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

Add  hot  water  to  sugar,  being  careful  not  to  stir  so 
there  will  be  no  sugar  on  sides  of  saucepan,  cover  until 
boiling  point  is  reached,  then  remove  and  cook  syrup 
until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  v/hen  rolled  between  the  fingers 
in  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Pour  on  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs 
and  beat  until  stiff,  then  flavor. 


Quick  Icing 

^/i  cup  sugar.  1  egg  white. 

3  tablespoons  cold  water. 

Put  sugar,  water  and  unbeaten  egg  white  into  a  double 
boiler,  place  over  boiling  water  and  beat  with  an  egg 
beater  for  6  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
until  thick  enough  to  spread;  add  flavoring. 


Confectioner's  Icing 

2  tablespoons  hot  water.  }/i  teaspoon  lemon  flavoring. 

Confectioner's  sugar. 

To  the  hot  water  add  enough  confectioner's  sugar  to 
make  stiff  enough  to  spread.  Do  not  use  this  icing  on  a 
hot  cake  or  it  will  melt.  Any  fruit  juice  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  water.  Orange  juice  and  grated  rind  are  partic- 
ularly satisfactory. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [243] 

Chocolate  Confectioner's  Icing  and  Filling 

2  squares  unsweetened  choco-      IJ^  cups  powdered  sugar, 
late  or  H  cup  ground  chocolate,      l^  cup  hot  water. 
1  teaspoon  butter.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter  over  hot  water.  When 
melted  add  sugar,  then  hot  water  gradually,  beating  until 
smooth,  then  add  flavoring.  Let  stand  until  thick  enough 
to  spread  between  layers.  If  used  for  icing  only,  can  be 
used  at  once. 

This  filling  may  be  varied  by  using  cinnamon  as  flavor- 
ing or  by  using  hot  coff"ee  instead  of  water. 

Also,  either  chopped  walnuts  or  raisins  may  be  added. 
Do  not  put  between  layers  while  they  are  hot  or  the 
filling  will  melt. 

Caramel  Icing  and  Filling 

V/i  cups  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  butter. 

4  tablespoons  milk.  i^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Put  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  add  milk  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved. Place  over  the  fire  and  when  mixture  starts  to 
boil  cook  3  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  at  once,  add 
butter,  turn  into  a  cold  bowl  and  beat  until  creamy;  then 
add  vanilla. 

This  may  be  used  as  an  icing  or  filling.  One-third  cup  of 
chopped  walnuts  may  be  added  for  the  filling. 

Creole  Icing 

Make  the  quick  icing.  Beat  until  thick  and  pile  on  top 
of  a  loaf  cake.  When  firm,  pour  over  the  top  melted,  un- 
sweetened chocolate,  or  make  half  the  chocolate  icing  and 
use  in  the  same  manner.  This  gives  a  chocolate  cream 
top.    The  cake  should  be  cut  in  small  squares. 

Divinity  Icing 

1  cup  sugar.  )/2  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

}4:  cup  corn  syrup.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

]/i  cup  hot  water.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
1  egg  (white). 

Mix  sugar,  syrup  and  water;  cook  until  syrup  forms  a 
soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  then  pour  very 


[244]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

slowly  over  the  well-beaten  white  of  an  egg  and  continue 
beating  until  mixture  becomes  creamy  and  will  hold  its 
shape;  add  nuts,  flavoring  and  salt. 

Marshmallow  FUling 

Make  boiled  or  quick  icing.  When  syrup  has  all  been 
added  to  the  beaten  eggs,  add  about  8  marshmallows  and 
beat  until  they  are  melted.  Flavor  with  ^  teaspoon  each 
of  vanilla  and  orange  extract. 

Lady  Baltimore  Filling 

Make  boiled  or  quick  icing.  Just  before  it  is  ready  to 
spread  between  the  layers,  add  }/^  cup  chopped  nuts,  ^ 
cup  seeded  raisins,  chopped,  6  or  8  chopped  candied  cher- 
ries, or  candied  figs  cut  in  thin  strips. 

Macaroon  Filling 

Make  boiled  or  quick  icing.  When  ready  to  use  add 
the  following  mixture:  Roll  four  macaroons  until  fine, 
add  3^  cup  of  finely  chopped  pecans  or  walnuts,  4  or  5 
candied  cherries  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Walnut  Filling 

Add  ^  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
to  the  boiled  or  quick  icing  just  before  spreading  between 
layers. 

Waldorf  Filling 

Add  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  walnuts  and  ^  cup  of 
currant  jelly  to  the  cooked  icing;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Nut  Caramel  Filling 

Add  ]/z  cup  of  chopped  nuts  (walnuts,  almonds  or 
pecans)  to  the  caramel  icing  just  before  spreading  on  the 
cake. 

French  Cream  Filling 

1  cup  milk.  1  egg  or  2  yolks. 

3^  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

yi  cup  flour.  1  teaspoon  butter. 

Put  milk  in  double  boiler  to  scald.    Mix   sugar    and 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK  [245] 

flour  well;  pour  hot  milk  over  flour  and  sugar  and  put 
back  in  double  boiler.  Stir  constantly  until  somewhat 
thick;  add  beaten  egg  and  continue  cooking  until  very 
thick.  Cool,  add  the  vanilla.  This  amount  of  cream  fill- 
ing will  fill  9  cream  puff^s  or  a  three-layer  cake. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Filling 

Prepare  French  cream  filling,  adding  3  tablespoons  of 
cocoanut  to  the  milk  when  scalding.  Use  lemon  and 
orange  flavoring,  a  teaspoon  of  each. 

Walnut  Cream  Filling 

Add  y^  cup  of  finely  chopped  walnuts  to  the  milk  when 
scalding,  following  French  cream  filling  recipe.  Use  a 
teaspoon  each  of  lemon  and  vanilla  flavoring. 

Cream  Filling  Royal 

Prepare  the  French  cream  filling  and  when  cold  fold  in 
1  cupful  of  whipped  cream.  This  filling  is  preferred  by 
many  to  plain  whipped  cream. 

Chocolate  French  Cream  Filling 

Prepare  French  Cream  Filling  adding  2  tablespoons  of 
ground  chocolate  to  the  sugar  and  flour;  or  melt  2  squares 
of  unsweetened  chocolate  over  hot  water  and  add  the 
cream  after  it  is  cooked. 

Mocha  Cream  Filling 

M  cup  strong  coffee.  }i  cup  flour. 

}4:  cup  cream,  fresh  or  canned.      1  egg  or  2  yolks. 
}/2  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  butter. 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  for  French  cream  filling. 
This  also  may  have  }4  cup  of  whipped  cream  added  when 
cold. 

Orange  Cream  Filling 

1  cup  orange  juice,  grated  rind      }4  cup  flour. 

of  oranges  used.  1  egg  or  2  yolks. 

}4  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  butter. 

Prepare  as  for  plain  cream  filling. 


[246]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Pineapple  Cream  Filling 

1  cup    grated    pineapple    and      ]/z  cup  flour. 

juice  (canned).  1  teaspoon  butter. 

1^  cup  sugar.  1  egg  or  2  yolks. 

Prepare  as  for  plain  cream  filling.  Less  sugar  is  required 
if  canned  fruit  is  used. 

Tutti-Frutti  Icing  or  Filling 

M  cup  sugar.  1  tablespoon  chopped  cherries. 

3  tablespoons  cold  water.  1  tablespoon  shredded  citron  or 
1  egg  white.  orange  peel. 

y^  cup  seedless  raisins.  1  teaspoon  each  of  vanilla  and 
1  tablespoon  chopped  walnuts.  orange  flavoring. 

Put  sugar,  water  and  unbeaten  egg  white  in  a  double 
boiler,  place  over  boiling  water  and  beat  with  an  egg 
beater  for  6  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
until  thick  enough  to  spread,  add  flavoring  and  fruit. 
Spread  between  layers  as  a  filling  or  on  top  of  a  loaf  cake 
for  an  icing. 

Mocha  Butter  Filling 

}4  cup  butter.  1  tablespoon  Mocha  flavoring. 

1  cup  confectioner's  sugar. 

Sweet  butter  is  best;  otherwise  wash  salt  butter  thor- 
oughly. 

Work  butter  until  creamy;  add  sugar  gradually  and 
alternately  with  the  flavoring.  This  filling  is  improved 
by  adding  ^  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Chocolate  Mocha  Filling 

Prepare  Mocha  Butter  Filling  adding  2  tablespoons  of 
ground  chocolate. 

Jelly  Filling 

Add  3^  cup  finely  chopped  nuts  to  a  glass  of  currant 
jelly,  spread  between  layers. 

Prune  Cake  Filling 

Wash  prunes,  remove  stones  and  measure  1  cupful. 
Chop  fine,  add  ^  cup  orange  marmalade,  3^  cup  finely 
chopped  walnuts,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Mix  well  and 
spread  between  layers. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [247] 

Strawberry  Filling 

1  cup  strawberries.  1  white  of  egg,  unbeaten. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar. 

Measure  strawberries  after  washing  and  removing 
hulls,  add  sugar  and  egg.  Beat  together  with  a  whip  egg- 
beater  until  thick  as  whipped  cream.  This  v/ill  take 
about  15  minutes.  To  be  used  as  a  filling  for  little  sponge 
cakes  or  cream  puffs.  Other  fruits  may  be  used  in  the  same 
manner. 


[248]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Small  Cakes  and  Cookies 

Little  cakes  and  cookies  are  so  attractive  and  easy  to 
serve.  They  make  nice  gifts,  too,  for  those  who  do  not 
have  the  time  or  the  facilities  for  baking  at  home.  And  how 
the  children  love  cookies  or  cakes  which  have  been  made 
especially  for  them!  The  mother  who  is  always  too  busy 
or  lacks  the  imagination  and  skill  to  cater  to  children: 
who  never  makes  wonderful  animal  cookies  or  fat,  dumpy 
gingerbread  or  doughnut  men,  has  really  deprived  her  off- 
spring of  untold  pleasure.  Not  only  the  eating  of  these 
mysterious,  delightful  creations,  but  to  stand  and  watch 
them  being  made  and  to  wait  irripatiently  what  seems 
ages  before  these  miracles  come  out  of  the  oven,  all  brown 
and  fragrant.  The  memory  of  these  childish  joys  is  never 
forgotten. 

Any  household  department  can  supply  inexpensive 
cookie  cutters.  They  come  in  most  attractive  shapes — 
all  sorts  of  animals,  chickens,  birds,  stars,  diamonds  and 
hearts.  So,  if  time  is  limited,  animal  cookies  can  easily 
take  the  place  of  the  gingerbread  man. 

Any  rolled  cookie  recipe  will  be  satisfactory.  Only 
after  the  dough  is  mixed,  set  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  at 
least  one  hour,  longer,  if  possible,  to  allow  the  dough  to 
stiffen  so  it  can  be  easily  handled.  Try  not  to  work  in  a 
warm  room  when  rolling  and  cutting  and  the  process  will 
be  much  easier.  Lay  the  gingerbread  man  on  a  greased 
cookie  sheet  as  you  make  him — then  he  won't  have  to  be 
moved.  Use  vv^hole  allspice  for  the  eyes,  the  star  of  a  clove 
for  the  nose;  a  pointed  knife  will  make  a  slit  for  the  mouth 
— upturned,  or  not,  as  you  wish — and  dried  currants  or 
seedless  raisins  will  answer  for  buttons  down  the  front. 
The  doughnut  man  is  made  by  simply  putting  the  round 
parts  taken  from  the  center  together  in  the  shape  of  a 
man  and  patting  and  joining  them  together.  Or  fry  these 
centers;  they  make  golden  brown  balls  that  can  be  rolled 
in  sugar.  The  children  will  call  them  fried  holes — -which 
is  really  the  right  name  after  all. 

Muffin  pans  can  be  used  to  advantage  for  a  variety  of 
little  cakes.    Almost  any  cake  batter  may  be  used — Cup, 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [249] 

Pound,  Devil's  Food  or  Nut  Cakes  or  Sponge  Cake  batter. 
Baked  in  this  form  the  cakes  may  be  decorated  in  many 
ways  without  requiring  much  time  or  effort.  Turn  up- 
side down  (cutting  a  small  piece  off  of  the  base  so  they  will 
stand  level)  and  either  ice  all  over  or  just  on  top.  Half  a 
nut  meat  or  chopped  nuts  may  be  placed  on  the  fresh 
icing  before  it  hardens;  or  cocoanut,  candied  fruits  or 
marshmallows.  They  can  be  elaborately  trimmed  with  a 
pastry  bag,  or  the  top  may  be  cut  off  completely,  then 
scoop  out  a  small  portion  of  the  center  and  fill  the  space 
with  whipped  cream  (using  a  pastry  bag,  if  possible). 

Now  cut  the  top  or  lid  in  two  in  the  center  and  replace, 
pushing  down  the  center  edges,  and  let  the  outside  look 
like  a  half  opened  basket  filled  with  whipped  cream. 
Shallow  sponge  cakes  are  very  attractive  when  baked  in 
muffin  pans,  then  iced,  split  half  way  through  the  center 
and  filled  with  whipped  cream,  French  cream  or  a  me- 
ringue. Any  favored  cake  recipe  may  be  used  to  make 
these  little  cakes,  and  there  is  no  form  in  which  to  make 
them  that  requires  so  little  skill  to  make  decorative. 

Cream  puffs  and  eclairs  are  not  difficult  to  make  and 
can  be  made  any  size  desired.  For  gift  boxes,  make  about 
as  big  as  a  chocolate  cream,  place  each  small  cream  puff 
in  a  little  paper  case  such  as  candy  is  packed  in,  then 
place  in  boxes  and  they  will  look  wonderfully  tempting. 

Dropped  cookies  are  very  easy  to  make  and  offer  great 
variety.  Any  cake  batter  may  be  used.  Drop  from  the 
tip  of  a  spoon  on  a  greased  cookie  pan,  several  inches 
apart,  and  bake  in  a  medium  oven.  An  ordinary  cake 
recipe  will  make  a  good  many  cookies.  They  may  be 
sprinkled  with  nuts  or  candied  fruit,  cocoanut,  etc.  Filled 
cookies  are  very  rich  and  are  made  by  spreading  a  filling 
on  top  of  one  cookie,  then  placing  another  on  top,  press- 
ing the  edges  firmly  together. 

Little  cakes  and  cookies  are  even  more  attractive  than 
home  made  candies.  Packed  neatly  in  gay  little  boxes  and 
tied  with  ribbons,  they  will  prove  a  very  acceptable  gift. 
And  for  the  informal  social  gatherings,  always  so  popular 
during  the  holidays,  little  cakes  and  cookies  offer  many  pos- 
sibilities. 


[250]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.     One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 

Meringues  or  Kisses 

3  egg  whites.  1  teaspoon  lemon  flavoring. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  1  teaspoon  almond  flavoring. 

Beat  egg  v^hites  until  very  dry  and  stiff,  or  until  bowl 
may  be  inverted  without  eggs  slipping  out.  Add  gradually 
y^  cup  of  sugar,  adding  about  2  tablespoonfuls  at  a  time. 
The  mixture  should  be  beaten  until  it  holds  its  shape. 
Carefully  fold  in  remaining  ^  cup  of  sugar  and  the  flavor- 
ing. Cover  an  inch-thick  board  with  paper,  fastening 
firmly.  On  this,  with  a  spoon  or  pastry  bag,  shape  the 
meringues  into  round  or  oval  shapes.  Dredge  with  gran- 
ulated sugar,  and,  if  desired,  sprinkle  with  shredded  al- 
monds. Bake  in  a  cool  oven  about  45  minutes  for  medium- 
sized  meringues.  They  should  not  show  any  color  until 
the  last  10  minutes  of  baking,  and  then  only  allowed  to 
color  delicately.  Remove  paper  from  the  board  and  peel 
it  from  the  meringues.  If  the  under  portion  is  still  soft, 
they  may  be  set  back  in  the  oven  upside  down  to  dry 
them  off. 


Cream  Pufifs  and  Eclairs 

First  Part :  Second  Part : 

1  cup  boiling  water.  4  eggs. 

y^  cup  butter. 
1  cup  flour. 

Add  butter  to  water  and  cook  until  melted;  when  boil- 
ing add  flour  all  at  once,  and  stir  rapidly  until  mixture 
does  not  adhere  to  sides  of  saucepan.  Turn  into  bowl, 
allow  to  cool  slightly,  then  add  eggs  1  at  a  time,  unbeaten; 
beat  well  after  adding  each  egg.  Shape  on  well  greased 
pans  3  inches  apart,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  30 
minutes.   Fill  with  French  cream  filling  or  whipped  cream. 

This  amount  will  make  18  cream  puffs. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [251] 

Little  Sponge  Cakes 

3  egg  yolks.  H  teaspoon  lemon. 

3  egg  whites.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

Yi  cup  sugar.  K  teaspoon  vanilla. 
H  cup  flour. 

Sift  flour  and  salt.  Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon 
colored.  Add  sugar  gradually,  beating  well.  Beat  whites 
of  eggs  until  stiff  and  fold  in  alternately  and  carefully 
with  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  very  moderate  over  in  ungreased 
pan.  When  cool,  ice,  split  half-way  open  and  fill  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored,  or  with  French 
cream  filling.  Or  cut  a  thin  slice  off^  the  top,  remove  a 
small  portion  of  the  center,  fill  with  whipped  cream, 
spread  a  layer  of  whipped  cream  over  the  top,  replace 
the  slice  of  cake  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  the 
top. 

Baking  Powder  Sponge  Cakes 

3  eggs.  3  tablespoons  water. 

1  teaspoon  lemon.  1  cup  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder.  Beat  eggs  until  very 
light,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  well,  then  add  water, 
flavoring  and  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in  greased 
muflSn  pans.    Ice  with  chocolate  frosting. 

Sugar  Cookies 

Yi  cup  butter.  V-A  (about)  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  well,  then 
2  egg  yolks  and  1  white,  beaten  until  light;  add  flour 
sifted  with  baking  powder.  Let  stand  to  chill,  then  toss 
on  a  floured  board,  and  roll  Y^  inch  thick.  Cut  with  a 
doughnut  cutter,  brush  over  with  the  unbeaten  white  of 
egg,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Place  on  a 
greased  baking  sheet,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
10  minutes. 


[252]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Drop  Cookies 

yi  cup  butter.  1  cup  flour. 

Yi  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  each  of  lemon  and 

2  eggs.  vanilla. 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  thoroughly, 
then  add  1  egg  unbeaten,  mixing  until  batter  is  smooth; 
add  Yi  cup  of  flour,  beat  well,  then  1  egg  and  continue 
beating;  add  remaining  flour  and  flavoring.  Drop  with 
teaspoon  on  greased  baking  sheet  about  3  inches  apart. 
Nuts,  raisins,  cherries  or  slice  of  citron  may  be  placed 
on  top  of  each  cookie.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  These 
cookies  spread  while  baking. 


Rolled  Oat  Cookies 

J^  cup  shortening.  J^  cup  chopped  walnuts. 
1  cup    sugar,    granulated    or      V/i  cups  flour. 

brown.  H  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg.  Yi  teaspoon  soda. 

yi  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

V/2  cups  rolled  oats.  1  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Yi  cup  chopped  raisins.  1  teaspoon  ginger. 

Cream  shortening  well;  add  sugar  gradually  and  con- 
tinue to  cream;  add  egg,  well  beaten,  milk,  rolled  oats, 
raisins  and  chopped  nuts.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients 
and  add  to  first  mixture.  Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  on  a 
well-greased  pan,  about  3  inches  apart,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  15  minutes. 


Rolled  Oat  Macaroons 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  chopped  dates  or  raisins. 

2  eggs.  2  cups  rolled  oats. 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  eggs  well  without  separating;  add  sugar  gradually 
until  very  creamy,  then  add  butter,  flavoring,  chopped 
fruit  and  rolled  oats.  Drop  with  teaspoon  on  well-greased 
cookie  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  golden 
brown. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [253] 

Rolled  Wheat  Cookies 

Yi,  cup  shortening.  M  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  egg.  lYi  cups  flour. 

3^  cup  milk.  13/^  cups  rolled  wheat. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla.  1  cup  cocoanut. 

}^  teaspoon  salt. 

Cream  shortening  well,  add  sugar  gradually  constantly 
stirring;  add  egg,  well  beaten,  milk,  rolled  wheat,  cocoa- 
nut  and  vanilla.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  to 
first  mixture.  Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  on  a  well-greased 
pan,  about  3  inches  apart,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  15  minutes. 

Walnut  Wafers 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  cup  broken  walnut  meats.  1  egg,  beaten. 
M  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Drop  from  teaspoon  on 
greased  cookie  pan  several  inches  apart  to  allow  for  spread- 
ing. Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  and  remove  pan  at 
once. 

Hermits 

]/^  cup  shortening.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

23^  cups  flour.  Yi  teaspoon  cloves. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  1  cup  raisins,  seedless. 

M  teaspoon  soda.  Y^  cup  walnuts,  chopped. 

Cream  shortening,  add  sugar,  sift  all  remaining  dry  in- 
gredients. Add  well  beaten  eggs  to  butter  and  sugar;  mix 
well,  add  dry  materials,  raisins  and  nuts.  Chill  and  then 
roll  out  and  cut  in  any  desired  shape.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Ginger  Cookies 

Y  cup  shortening.  34  teaspoon  soda. 

Y.  cup  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Y  cup  molasses.  Y  teaspoon  salt. 

1  well-beaten  egg.  1  teaspoon  ginger. 

\Y  cups  flour.  Y2  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Y  cup  sour  or  buttermilk. 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar;  beat  well.    Sift  remain- 


[254]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

ing  dry  ingredients.  Add  egg  to  creamed  shortening  and 
sugar,  then  add  dry  ingredients,  molasses  and  liquid 
gradually,  beating  well.  Drop  from  spoon  on  a  greased 
pan,  some  distance  apart,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
These  cookies  spread  while  baking. 

Ginger  Cookies 

For  gingerbread  man — 

]/^  cup  butter  or  substitute.  3  teaspoons  ginger. 

4  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

]/2  cup  sugar  (brown  or  granu-  3^  cup  molasses. 

lated).  H  cup  milk  (sour  or  sweet). 

K  teaspoon  cinnamon.  1  egg,  beaten. 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  soda  and  spices.  Rub  in  shortening, 
add  molasses,  egg  and  milk,  mixing  with  a  knife.  Turn 
on  a  floured  board  and  knead  lightly,  adding  more  flour 
if  necessary.  Set  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  or  more, 
then  roll  and  cut  into  shape.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven.  If  desired  glossy,  brush  over  each  cookie  with 
slightly  beaten  egg  before  baking. 

Doughnuts 

2  cups  flour.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  3^  cup  sugar. 

H  teaspoon  salt.  1  egg. 

li  teaspoon  nutmeg.  J^  cup  milk. 

Cream  butter  add  sugar  and  well-beaten  egg.  Sift  all 
dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk.  Turn 
onto  a  floured  board,  roll  out  to  ^2  inch  thick  and  cut 
with  a  doughnut  cutter.  Allow  to  stand  a  few  minutes  to 
stiff"en  the  dough,  then  fry  in  hot  fat  until  a  golden  brown, 
turn  to  cook  on  the  other  side,  drain  on  paper.  When 
cold,  dredge  with  powdered  sugar  mixed  with  a  little 
cinnamon. 

Dropped  Doughnuts 

J^  cup  sugar.  34^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg,  well  beaten.  34  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

]4.  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

13^  cups  flour.  }/2  teaspoon  lemon  flavoring. 

Beat  egg  and  add  sugar.  Sift  dry  ingredients,  and  add 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  flavoring.  Drop  from  a 
teaspoon  into  hot  fat  and  fry  until  a  golden  brown.  Drain 
on  paper  and  when  cool  dredge  with  powdered  sugar. 


CHAPTER  TWELVE 

CUSTARDS  SWEET  SOUFFLES 

HOT  DESSERTS  COLD  DESSERTS 

GELATINE  DESSERTS   FROZEN  DESSERTS 
WHIPPED  CREAM  DESSERTS 


[256]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Custards  and  Custard  Desserts 

|iLK  and  eggs  are  probably  the  most  important  foods 
in  the  diet.  Either  milk  alone  or  milk  and  eggs 
constitute  the  diet  of  children  and  invalids  and 
also  are  an  important  factor  in  the  nutrition  of 
healthy  adults.  The  desirable  qualities  in  milk  are  in  no 
way  destroyed  by  ordinary  cooking.  Whole  milk  con- 
tains all  the  food  principles — protein,  carbohydrates,  water 
and  minerals.  Milk  should  be  scalded  not  boiled  as  boiling 
renders  it  somewhat  indigestible.  Eggs  also  contain  all 
the  necessary  food  principles  and  are  very  easily  digested 
if  cooked  at  moderate  heat.  The  combination  of  milk  and 
eggs,  furnish  many  palatable  wholesome  desserts.  Custards 
are  divided  into  two  classes,  the  boiled  or  liquid  custards 
which  are  steamed  or  cooked  over  hot  water  on  top  of  the 
range;  the  baked  or  solid  custard  which  is  steamed  in  the 
oven.  All  custard  mixtures  should  be  set  in  hot  water  to 
cook  and  the  water  kept  just  under  the  boiling  point.  This 
gives  the  moderate  heat  required  for  all  custards  and  pre- 
vents the  custard  reaching  the  boiling  point.  If  cooked 
too  fast  or  directly  in  a  dry  heat  the  mixture  will  separate 
and  curdle.  Certain  rules  govern  the  making  of  custards 
whether  they  are  to  be  cooked  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the 
stove.  Milk  should  be  heated  in  a  double  boiler  or  over  hot 
water,  when  bubbles  appear  on  the  surface  the  milk  is 
scalded.  Eggs  should  be  beaten  slightly  just  enough  to  mix 
the  yolk  and  white.  When  eggs  are  used  as  a  thickening 
medium  as  in  custards,they  are  not  beaten  until  light.  Sugar 
is  gradually  added  to  the  eggs  and  the  hot  milk  poured  over 
the  egg  and  sugar  mixture.  Eggs  should  not  be  added  to  a 
hot  mixture;  the  hot  liquid  should  be  added  to  the  eggs, 
otherwise  the  eggs  would  cook  as  they  were  added  to  the 
milk  and  the  mixture  would  not  be  smooth.  The  custard 
is  now  ready  to  steam  or  bake.  All  custard  puddings,  pies, 
etc.,  are  first  mixed  in  this  manner.  The  type  of  custard 
desired  depends  upon  the  number  of  eggs  used  to  each  cup 
or  half  pint  of  milk.  One  egg  to  a  cupful  of  milk  will  give 
a  liquid  custard;  or  two  yolks  of  eggs  will  give  the  same 
results  as  to  consistency;  a  custard  made  entirely  of  egg 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [257] 

yolks  is  much  richer  than  one  made  of  whole  eggs.  Two 
eggs  to  a  cupful  of  milk  will  give  a  solid  custard  if  baked 
and  served  in  individual  custard  cups.  But  if  the  custard 
is  to  be  unmolded  and  hold  its  shape  perfectly,  it  will  re- 
quire three  eggs  for  each  cupful  of  milk.  A  custard  pie 
filling  will  be  firmer  if  three  eggs  are  used  for  each  cupful  of 
milk.  When  custards  are  to  be  served  from  the  dish  in 
which  they  were  baked  two  eggs  to  each  cupful  of  milk 
is  sufficient. 

Junkets  are  a  form  of  custard.  They  are  very  wholesome 
and  digestible.  Thej?^  are  made  of  milk  thickened  with  ren- 
net. Rennet  is  supplied  in  the  form  of  Junket  Tablets. 
Junket  desserts  and  custards  are  particularly  good  for 
children  and  can  be  given  to  babies  who  are  just  beginning 
to  eat  solid  food. 

The  cooking  of  custards  requires  care  especially  the 
liquid  or  soft  custard.  It  must  be  stirred  constantly  until 
it  thickens  which  can  be  determined  by  a  thin  coating  that 
will  cling  to  the  spoon.  Remove  from  the  fire  at  once,  stir 
for  a  few  seconds  as  the  heat  of  the  utensil  will  finish  the 
cooking.  Turn  at  once  into  a  cold  bowl  and  when  partly 
chilled  add  the  flavoring.  If  by  any  chance  the  custard 
has  been  over  cooked  and  looks  curdled  pour  at  once  into 
a  cold  bowl  and  beat  with  a  rotary  egg  beater.  This  will 
probably  restore  it  but  it  will  not  be  quite  as  creamy.  The 
inexperienced  cook  will  find  that  for  each  cupful  of  milk 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  may  be  added  to  the 
sugar;  this  will  usually  prevent  separation  or  curdling. 
However  the  custard  will  not  be  quite  so  delicate.  All 
delicate  puddings  made  with  a  custard  foundation  or  with 
many  eggs,  require  a  moderate  heat  and  should  be  set  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  to  cook,  the  water  being  kept  under  the 
boiling  point. 

Soft  Custard 

1  egg  or  2  egg  yolks.  H  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Scald  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  beat  eggs  slightly,  add 
sugar  gradually.  Pour  hot  milk  over  the  mixture  and  stir 
until  sugar  is  dissolved.    Then  set  over  hot  water  and  stir 


[258]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

gently,  over  a  low  fire  until  custard  thickens  and  coats 
the  spoon.  Remove  from  the  fire  at  once,  stir  a  few  seconds 
and  turn  into  a  cold  bowl.  Add  flavoring  when  partly 
cold.    This  custard  is  used  as  a  sauce. 

Baked  Custard 

4  eggs.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  cups  milk.  Nutmeg. 

Yi,  cup  sugar. 

Scald  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  beat  eggs  slightly,  add 
sugar,  then  pour  hot  milk  over  mixture.  Add  vanilla  and 
pour  into  custard  cups  or  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  top  with  a 
little  nutmeg  and  set  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  place 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Bake  until  firm  in  the  center  which 
can  be  determined  by  plunging  a  knife  through  the  center. 
If  the  knife  comes  out  clean  the  custard  is  baked.  Indi- 
vidual custards  will  bake  in  about  20  minutes.  If  baked  in 
a  large  dish  about  45  minutes. 

Caramel  Custard 

K  cup  granulated  sugar.  Baked  custard  recipe. 

Put  the  dry  sugar  in  a  saucepan  over  a  low  fire  and  stir 
constantly  until  it  forms  a  golden  syrup.  The  sugar  goes 
through  several  stages  before  it  melts  and  great  care  must 
be  taken  not  to  burn  it  or  there  will  be  a  bitter  taste.  As 
the  sugar  melts  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire  and  stir  letting 
the  heat  of  the  pan  accomplish  some  of  the  melting.  This 
prevents  the  chance  of  burning.  When  sugar  is  melted 
pour  into  warm  custard  cups  or  baking  dish.  If  cups  are 
warm,  the  syrup  can  be  spread  before  it  hardens.  Pour 
in  the  prepared  custard  and  bake.  The  caramel  forms  a 
sauce  for  the  custard. 

Chocolate  Custard 

Add  3^  cup  of  ground  chocolate  to  the  sugar  when 
making  the  custard,  or  melt  2  squares  of  unsweetened 
chocolate  and  add  to  the  mixture.  This  applies  to  both 
soft  and  baked  custards. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [259 

Maple  Custard 

4  eggs.  2  cups  milk. 

Yi  cup  maple  sugar  or  syrup. 

Prepare  as  for  baked  custard. 

Mocha  Custard 

4  eggs.  1  cup  coffee. 

Yi  cup  sugar.  1  cup  milk. 

Prepare  as  for  baked  custard. 

Cocoanut  Custard 

Add  y^  cup  of  cocoanut  to  the  baked  custard  recipe. 


Fruit  with  Custard  Sauce 

Sliced  oranges,  bananas,  cooked  figs  or  prunes,  make  a 
very  nice  dessert  if  covered  with  a  soft  custard. 

Cake  Pudding 

Slices  of  stale  cake,  macaroons  or  lady  fingers  can  be 
served  covered  with  a  soft  custard  and  make  a  most 
palatable  dessert. 

Floating  Island 

2  egg  yolks.  J^  cup  sugar. 

1  egg.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

V/i  cups  milk. 

Scald  milk;  beat  yolks  and  egg  slightly;  gradually  add 
sugar.  Pour  hot  milk  over  mixture;  stir  until  sugar  is 
dissolved  then  cook  over  hot  water  until  mixture  is 
creamy  and  coats  the  spoon.  Pour  into  a  serving  dish 
and  add  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  until  stiflF, 
gradually  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Drop  by  table- 
spoonfuls  into  boiling  water  and  cook  under  boiling  point 
for  about  3  minutes.  Remove  with  a  skimmer  and  place 
on  top  of  custard.  Set  aside  to  cool  and  just  before  serv- 
ing place  a  teaspoonful  of  red  jelly  or  jam  in  the  center  of 
each  island. 


[260]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Prune  Whip 

1  cup  prune  pulp.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

3  egg  whites.  ]/i  cup  granulated  sugar. 

H  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

Put  cooked  pitted  prunes  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  very  stiff  with  a  whip  egg-beater;  fold  in 
the  sugar,  prune  pulp,  chopped  walnuts  and  vanilla.  Pile 
lightly  in  a  baking-dish  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
about  30  minutes  in  a  rather  slow  oven  until  perfectly 
firm.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream  or  a  custard  sauce 
made  of  2  of  the  egg  yolks.  Any  other  cooked  fruit  may 
be  used. 

Apricot  Souffle 

3  eggs,  separated.  2  tablespoons    finely    chopped 

3^  cup  sugar.  almonds. 

1  cup  cooked  mashed  apricots.       1  teaspoon  pineapple  flavoring. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff  with  a  whip  egg-beater; 
beat  yolks  with  rotary  egg-beater  until  creamy.  Grad- 
ually add  sugar  to  egg  yolks,  beat  well,  add  apricots,  nuts 
and  flavoring.  Carefully  fold  in  the  egg  whites.  Pile  in  a 
baking  dish,  set  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  firm  in  the  center.  Serve  hot  with  a 
sauce  made  of  the  apricot  juice. 

Junket 

2  cups  milk.  1  jimket  tablet. 

]/2  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Ys  teaspoon  salt. 

Heat  the  milk  to  luke  warm  only;  add  sugar  and  salt. 
Crush  the  junket  tablet,  add  to  mixture  and  stir  until 
dissolved;  add  vanilla  (which  may  be  omitted  for  young 
children).  Pour  into  a  serving  dish  and  let  stand  in  a 
warm  place  until  thick.  Junket  is  quite  different  from 
the  usual  form  of  dessert  as  it  is  kept  warm  in  order  to 
thicken.  The  rennet  will  not  thicken  the  milk  if  it  is  cold 
or  hot,  it  must  only  be  luke  warm.  Junket  may  be  served 
plain  or  with  thin  or  whipped  cream. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [261] 

Pudding  of  Rice  and  Cereals 

Custard  Rice  Pudding 

}4  cup  rice.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  cold  milk.  3^  cup  scalded  milk. 

1  cup  cold  water.  1  teaspoon    vanilla    or    grated 

}4  teaspoon  salt.  rind  and  juice  of  lemon. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 

Wash  rice  well;  put  rice,  milk  and  water  in  a  saucepan 
and  cook  until  soft;  add  butter  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Beat 
eggs,  add  the  additional  ^  cup  scalded  milk,  sugar  and 
flavoring;  combine  with  rice;  pour  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish  and  bake  slowly  until  firm.  Pour  a  little  melted 
butter  over  the  top,  sprinkle  thickly  with  powdered 
sugar  and  return  to  oven  to  glaze.  For  chocolate  rice 
pudding,  add  2  tablespoons  of  ground  chocolate  and  add 
to  the  mixture,  omitting  the  flavoring. 

Plain  Rice  Pudding 

2  cups  fresh  milk.  }4  cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  rice.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

14  teaspoon  salt. 

Wash  rice  thoroughly  and  drain;  place  in  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  pour  in  milk.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for 
about  1>^  hours,  stirring  occasionally;  add  remaining  in- 
gredients and  bake  from  ^  to  1  hour  longer.  Do  not  stir 
after  adding  ingredients,  but  allow  to  become  a  golden 
brown  on  top. 

Molded  Rice  Custard  With  Fruit 

2  cups  cooked  rice.  }4  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  scalded  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  eggs. 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  hot  milk.  Cook  over  hot 
water  until  creamy,  stirring  constantly;  add  cooked  rice, 
mix  well  and  turn  into  a  buttered  mold  (ring  mold  pre- 
ferred). Cool,  then  turn  on  to  a  serving  plate.  Fill 
center  with  any  cooked,  drained  fruit  and  place  a  border 
of  fruit  around  bottom  of  mold. 


[262]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Rice  With  Fruit 

Sweeten  and  mash  to  a  pulp  any  fresh  or  canned  fruit. 
Mold  rice  in  custard  cups.  Turn  out  and  pour  the  fruit 
mixture  over  each  one.  Any  of  the  berries,  cooked  prunes, 
canned  apricots  or  peaches  are  suitable  for  this  dish. 


Sweet  Rice  Cakes 

2  cups  cold  cooked  rice.  M  cup  sugar, 

legg. 

Beat  egg,  add  sugar  and  rice.  Shape  into  flat  cakes; 
roll  in  flour  and  fry  on  a  hot  griddle.  Serve  with  maple 
syrup  or  jelly. 

Tapioca  Cream 

J^  cup  pearl  tapioca.  J^  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  cold  water.  34  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  scalded  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
2  eggs,  separated. 

Soak  tapioca  in  cold  water  1  hour.  Add  to  scalded  milk 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  transparent.  Add  yi  the 
sugar  and  the  salt.  Beat  eggs,  add  remaining  sugar  and 
add  to  hot  mixture.  Cook  until  thick,  add  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites  and  pile  in  a  serving  dish. 


Fig  Tapioca 

4  tablespoons  pearl  tapioca.  2  eggs. 

Yi  cup  sugar.  K  cup  cooked  figs,  chopped. 

2  cups  scalded  milk.  3^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soak  tapioca  in  cold  water  an  hour.  Separate  eggs — 
beat  yolks.  Add  sugar,  then  hot  milk  and  tapioca.  Cook 
for  about  20  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Stir  in  the  figs 
and  flavoring  and  pour  into  a  baking  dish.  Beat  the  egg 
whites  until  stiff.  Add  gradually  4  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
beating  well.  Heap  this  meringue  on  top  of  the  pudding 
and  brown  delicately  in  a  very  moderate  oven.  This 
should  take  about  8  minutes. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [263] 

Cereal  Pudding 

2  cups  milk.  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted. 

1  cup  any  cooked  cereal.  1  cup  grated  pineapple. 

Yi  cup  sugar.  1  egg. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  1  inch  piece  stick  cinnamon. 

Put  cinnamon  in  milk  and  allow  to  become  hot,  then 
remove  cinnamon.  Add  cereal  to  hot  milk  and  when 
boiling  add  sugar,  salt,  butter  and  pineapple.  Add  well 
beaten  egg,  cook  5  minutes.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream 
or  a  pudding  sauce. 


[264]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

CORN  STARCH  PUDDINGS 
Blanc  Mange  or  Com  Starch  Pudding 

1)^  cups  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

M  cup  sugar.  2  egg  whites  beaten  stiff. 

4  tablespoons  com  starch. 

Heat  milk;  mix  sugar  and  corn  starch  thoroughly;  then 
add  the  hot  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thick- 
ens. Cook  over  hot  water  for  20  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. When  cooked  pour  hot  mixture  slowly  over  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs;  add  flavoring  and  pour  into  a  mold 
which  has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water.  Chill  and  serve  with 
a  custard  made  of  the  2  egg  yolks. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 

Add  3^  cup  of  ground  chocolate  to  the  plain  corn  starch 
recipe.  Or  if  unsweetened  chocolate  is  preferred  melt  2 
squares  over  hot  water  then  add  to  the  pudding. 

Pineapple  Blanc  Mange 

1  cup    grated    pineapple    and       Yi  cup  sugar. 

juice.  3  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  2  egg  whites. 

Heat  pineapple;  mix  sugar  and  corn  starch  until  well 
blended  then  add  to  hot  mixture.  Stir  until  smooth  then 
cook  over  hot  water  about  20  minutes.  Pour  over  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  a  mold  and  set  aside  to  be- 
come firm.  Unmold  and  serve  with  a  custard  sauce. 

Orange  Blanc  Mange 

Substitute  orange  juice  and  grated  rind  following  the 
recipe  for  the  pineapple  Blanc  Mange. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [265 


Cold  Desserts 

Chocolate  Pudding  Supreme 

2  squares  chocolate  or  H  cup      3^  cup  milk. 

ground  chocolate.  2  eggs  beaten  separately. 

K  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  sugar  and  milk  and 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick,  then  add  beaten  yolks 
and  cook  until  mixture  is  very  thick.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Line  a  mold  with  waxed  paper  and 
cover  the  bottom  with  lady  fingers;  pour  in  a  small  portion 
of  the  chocolate  mixture  then  line  the  sides  with  lady 
fingers.  Pour  in  a  layer  of  chocolate  mixture,  then  a  layer 
of  lady  fingers,  lining  the  mold  with  a  second  row  of  lady 
fingers.  Set  aside  for  8  or  10  hours  to  become  firm.  To 
serve  turn  out  of  mold  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream, 
pressed  through  a  pastry  bag  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  chopped  maraschino 
cherries. 

Date  Pudding 

M  cup  sugar.  1  cup  dates,  stoned  and  cut  in 

2  eggs,  separated.  thirds. 

}4  cup  sifted  flour.  1  cup  walnuts,  chopped  fine. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

}4:  cup  milk. 

Beat  egg  yolks;  gradually  add  sugar  then  add  milk. 
Sift  remaining  dry  ingredients  and  combine  mixtures. 
Add  nuts,  dates  and  vanilla.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Pour  into  a  greased  pudding  dish,  set  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  firm  in  a  moderate  oven 
Serve  cold  with  a  custard  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 


Thanksgiving  Pudding 

2  eggs.  J^  cup  seeded  raisins. 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs.  M  cup  finely  shaved  citron. 

J4  cup  sugar.  2  cups  milk. 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemon. 

Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm  in 


[266]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

the  center.  Cool  slightly,  then  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
very  stiff  and  add  4  tablespoons  of  sugar  gradually,  beat- 
ing constantly.  Spread  the  meringue  on  the  pudding, 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar.  Put  in  a  very  slow  oven 
to  brown,  about  8  minutes. 

Fruit  Pudding  Supreme 

Beat  3  eggs;  add  ^  cup  sugar  and  1^  cups  scalded 
milk.  Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Decorate  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  halved  blanched 
almonds.  Cut  stale  cake  in  lengths  the  size  of  lady  fingers; 
put  a  layer  of  cake  on  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  dish; 
cover  the  bottom  layer  of  cake  with  cooked,  mashed  fruit; 
add  another  layer  of  cake,  then  fruit  until  dish  is  filled. 
Pour  over  egg  mixture,  then  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm.  When  cold  un- 
mold,  and  serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Prune  Pudding — ^Delmonico 

1  cup  cooked  pitted  primes.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  cups  scalding  milk.  For  meringue : 
4  level  tablespoons  corn  starch.      2  egg  vyhites. 

}/2  cup  sugar.  4  tablespoons  sugar. 

2  egg  yolks.  3^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  teaspoon  butter. 

Put  prunes  with  a  little  juice  in  a  pudding  dish.  Scald 
milk  in  a  double  boiler;  mix  sugar  and  corn  starch  until 
well  blended;  add  to  hot  milk  and  cook  15  minutes.  Pour 
over  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  mix  well.  Turn  the 
custard  over  the  prunes.  Beat  the  egg  whites  until  stiff; 
beat  in  gradually  2  tablespoons  of  sugar;  fold  in  remain- 
ing sugar;  add  vanilla.  Spread  on  top  of  pudding  and  bake 
in  a  very  moderate  oven  about  8  minutes.  Serve  hot  or 
cold. 

Raisins  and  Bananas 

Peel  bananas  and  scrape  off  the  outer  stringy  portion, 
place  in  a  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice. 
Take  y^  cup  of  sugar,  \}4  cups  of  water  and  1  cup  seed- 
less raisins,  cook  about  5  minutes;  pour  over  bananas, 
place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  until  bananas  are 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [267] 

tender.    Serve  hot  or  cold  from  the  dish  in  which  they 
were  baked. 


Stuffed  Peaches,  Pears  or  Apricots 

Use  canned  or  fresh  fruit.  Set  each  half  of  fruit  in  an 
individual  serving  plate  round  side  next  to  plate.  Put  a 
spoonful  of  raspberry  jam  in  the  center  of  each  half. 
Cover  the  top  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  or  an  un- 
cooked meringue.  If  canned  fruit  is  used  cook  the  juice 
down  to  a  thick  syrup,  chill  and  pour  around  the  fruit. 


Uncooked  Meringue 

1  egg,  white  beaten  until  very      3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar, 
dry.  ]/2  teaspoon  vanilla  flavoring. 

To  the  beaten  egg  whites  add  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and 
beat  well;  add  1  more  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  continue 
beating.  Then  fold  in  the  last  of  the  sugar  and  the  flavor- 
ing.   Pile  on  top  of  fruit. 


Fruit  Cup 

1  cup  cooked  figs  cut  into  small      6  marshmallows  cut  in    quar- 

pieces.  ters. 

1  cup  cooked  or  fresh  peaches 

cut  into  dice. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  let  stand  for  at  least  1  hour  before 
serving.    Garnish  with  whipped  cream. 


Cabinet  Pudding 

Take  left-over  slices  of  cake.  Cut  into  finger  length 
strips  and  place  a  layer  of  cake  in  a  baking  dish.  Cover 
with  a  layer  of  raisins,  then  another  layer  of  cake  until 
dish  is  filled.  Pour  over  the  baked  custard  mixture,  set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
firm  in  the  center. 


[268]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Sweet  Short  Cakes 

First  Part:  Second  Part: 

2  eggs.  1  cup  whipping  cream. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 

2  cups  flour.  Fruit. 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Yi  cup  milk  or  water. 
}/2,  cup  melted  shortening. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
1  teaspoon  lemon. 

Sift  dry  ingredients  in  first  part,  except  sugar;  beat  eggs 
until  very  light,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  with  egg- 
beater.  When  creamy,  add  dry  ingredients  alternately 
with  liquid,  mixing  well.  Add  flavoring  and  melted  short- 
ening. Bake  in  two  layers  in  a  rather  hot  oven.  Cool. 
Just  before  serving  beat  cream  and  add  sugar.  Spread  ^ 
of  the  cream  over  one  layer  and  cover  with  drained  cooked 
fruit  or  sweetened  berries.  Place  on  the  second  layer, 
cover  with  remaining  cream  and  arrange  fruit  in  even 
rows  over  the  top.    Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 


HOT  PUDDINGS— STEAMED  AND  BAKED 

The  secret  of  light  steamed  pudding  is  having  the  water 
constantly  boiling  during  the  entire  period  of  steaming. 
The  water  should  be  two-thirds  the  depth  of  the  mold.  A 
kettle  of  boiling  water  should  be  kept  to  replenish  the 
water  as  it  boils  down.  If  the  water  in  which  the  pudding 
is  cooked  is  not  constantly  boiling  the  pudding  will  be 
heavy.  Grease  the  mold  and  cover  v/ell,  and  dredge  gener- 
ously with  sugar.  This  makes  the  dark  puddings  glossy 
on  the  surface.  The  time  allowed  for  steaming  is  approxi- 
mately an  hour  for  each  cupful  of  flour  or  bread  crumbs 
used.  The  pudding  may  be  tested  by  removing  the  cover 
after  it  has  cooked  about  the  required  time.  If  it  springs 
back  when  pressed  in  the  center  the  pudding  is  cooked; 
if  not  replace  cover  and  steam  longer.  Steamed  or  baked 
puddings  made  of  a  batter  provide  a  substantial  dessert. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [269] 

Plum  Pudding 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs.  Yi  cup  flour. 

1  cup  finely  chopped  suet.  \^  teaspoon  each  nutmeg  and 

Y2  cup  brown  sugar.  cinnamon. 

1  cup  seeded  raisins.  }/i  teaspoon  cloves. 

1  cup  seedless  raisins.  K  teaspoon  salt. 

Yi  cup  chopped  walnuts.  2  eggs,  beaten  well. 

Y2  cup  sliced  citron.  Y2  cup  milk. 

Mix  bread  crumbs,  suet,  sugar,  fruits  and  nuts;  sift 
flour,  spices  and  salt.  Combine  mixtures,  add  eggs  and 
milk.  Butter  a  covered  mold  well  and  dredge  with  sugar. 
Have  a  kettle  half-full  of  boiling  water;  place  a  rack  or 
plate  on  the  bottom  and  set  the  tightly  covered  mold  on 
the  rack  and  cover  kettle.  Keep  water  constantly  boiling 
until  pudding  is  cooked,  about  2  hours.  Serve  with  a  hard 
or  foamy  sauce. 

Steamed  Carrot  Pudding 

1  cup  grated  raw  carrots.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  grated  raw  potatoes.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  Y2  teaspoon  cloves. 

\Y2  cup  flour.  Y2  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

1  cup  seeded  raisins.  1  teaspoon  soda  mixed  with  the 

1  cup  nuts.  potato. 

3^  cup  butter  or  substitute. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  then  mix  with  other 
ingredients  in  order  given.  Steam  for  3  hours.  Serve  with 
a  hot  pudding  sauce. 

Cottage  Pudding 

1  egg.  Yi  cup  milk  or  water. 

Y2  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  flour.  3  tablespoons  melted 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  shortening. 

Beat  egg,  gradually  add  sugar;  sift  flour  and  baking 
powder  and  add  alternately  with  liquid,  beating  until 
smooth.  Add  vanilla  and  melted  shortening.  Pour  in  a 
greased  pan  and  bake  about  15  minutes.  Serve  with  a 
liquid  or  fruit  pudding  sauce. 

Fruit  Cobbler 

Mix  the  batter  as  for  cottage  pudding;  use  any  canned 
or  quickly  cooked  fresh  fruit  to  line  a  pudding  dish,  pour 


[270]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

the  batter  over  the  fruit,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  any  pudding  sauce  or  the  heated  fruit  juice. 
Be  sure  to  drain  canned  fruit  of  all  the  juice  before  pour- 
ing the  batter  over  the  fruit.    Serve  with  a  liquid  sauce. 

Steamed  Pudding 

1  egg.  14  cup  milk  or  water. 

}/i  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 

1  cup  flour.  ing. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  beat  egg,  add  milk  and  combine 
ingredients.  Beat  to  a  smooth  batter,  add  melted  short- 
ening and  vanilla.  Pour  in  a  buttered  mold,  cover  closely 
and  set  mold  on  a  rack  or  plate  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Cover  and  steam  about  1)4  hours.  Serve  with  any  de- 
sired liquid  sauce. 

The  pudding  may  be  boiled  in  a  cloth.  Grease  cloth  on 
the  inside.  Put  in  the  batter,  tie  firmly  allowing  plenty 
of  room  for  pudding  to  swell.  Dredge  on  the  outside  with 
flour  and  drop  in  rapidly  boiling  water.  Keep  water 
boiling  constantly  and  add  more  boiling  water  if  needed. 

Steamed  Fruit  Pudding 

Add  ^  cup  of  fruit  to  the  steamed  pudding  recipe. 
Blackberries,  huckleberries,  loganberries,  cranberries, 
sliced  peaches  or  apricots,  pitted  prunes,  raisins  or 
chopped  figs  offer  a  variety. 

Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding 

Add  3^  cup  of  ground  chocolate,  or  2  squares  of  un- 
sweetened chocolate,  }4  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  and  2 
tablespoons  of  chopped  walnuts  to  the  steamed  pudding 
recipe. 

Plain  Suet  Pudding 

}/2  cup  finely  chopped  suet.  14.  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

}/i  cup  molasses.  3^  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon 
M  cup  brown  sugar.  and  nutmeg. 

IH  cups  flour.  }4:  teaspoon  cloves  and  ginger. 
H  teaspoon  soda. 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients,  add  chopped  suet,  molasses  and 
milk.    Mix  well  and  pour  into  well  greased  covered  mold. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [271] 

Steam  about  \}4  hours.    Serve  with  a  foamy  sauce.  For 
a  fruit  pudding  add  1  cupful  of  seedless  raisins. 

Indian  Pudding 

2  cups  milk.  K  teaspoon  ginger. 

3^  cup  corn  meal.  J^  teaspoon  salt. 

J^  cup  brown  sugar.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

2  tablespoons  molasses.  1  egg. 

Scald  milk,  add  the  molasses  and  butter.  Mix  dry  in- 
gredients and  combine  mixtures.  Add  beaten  egg  and 
pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  cook  about  1  hour  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

Puffs 

1  egg.  li  cup  milk  or  water. 

]^  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  flour.  2  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  ing. 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  beat  egg,  add  milk,  combine  mix- 
tures and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  flavoring  and  shorten- 
ing. Pour  into  buttered  custard  cups  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Serve  with  an  orange  or  pineapple  sauce. 
One-half  cup  of  raisins  or  chopped  nuts  may  be  added  and 
spices  can  replace  the  vanilla. 


BREAD  PUDDING  VARIATIONS  MANY  AND 

TEMPTING,  WITH  HUMBLE  DESSERT 

GLORIFIED 

The  humble  bread  pudding  is,  perhaps,  the  most 
familiar  of  all  hot  desserts.  However,  it  is  not  always 
a  popular  favorite,  and,  sad  to  say,  not  always  palat- 
able, because  too  much  bread  is  used  in  its  making. 
The  bread  in  a  bread  pudding  is  used  merely  to  hold 
the  other  ingredients  together  and  to  supply  a  back- 
ground for  flavors,  not  as  a  means  of  using  a  quan- 
tity of  dry  bread.  A  well-made  bread  pudding  is  a 
very  palatable  dessert  and  is  capable  of  an  almost  endless 
number  of  variations. 

Remember,  a  pudding  of  this  kind  forms  a  hearty,  sub- 


[272]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

stantial  dessert  and  is  also  easily  digested.  The  following 
rules,  if  carefully  adhered  to,  will  enable  anyone  to  make 
a  delicate,  smooth  pudding:  Always  soak  the  bread  in 
water,  scald  the  milk,  add  other  ingredients,  and  bake  the 
pudding  slowly.  The  bread  must  be  soaked  in  water  to 
produce  lightness  and  delicacy.  The  milk  is  scalded  be- 
cause scalded  milk  makes  the  pudding  smoother  than  raw 
milk. 

The  pudding  is  baked  slowly  in  order  that  the  eggs  and 
milk  will  not  curdle,  as  they  might  if  baked  in  too  hot  an 
oven.  The  bread  should  be  soaked  in  the  cold  water  to 
cover  for  20  minutes  or  more.  Then  press  out  all  the 
water  and  crumble  the  bread  into  small  pieces.  Scald  the 
milk  and  add  salt,  sugar,  shortening,  the  well-beaten  eggs 
and  flavoring.  Pour  the  mixture  over  the  bread  and  stir 
well.  Pour  all  into  a  well-greased  pudding  dish,  and  bake 
about  40  minutes  in  a  slow  oven  for  a  medium  sized  pud- 
ding. If  the  dish  containing  the  pudding  is  placed  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water  and  baked,  there  will  be  less  danger  of  too 
much  heat.  All  custard  mixtures  are  better  baked  in  this 
manner.  The  mixture  will  appear  thin,  but  will  thicken 
sufficiently  when  baked. 

If  a  very  thick  pudding  is  desired  more  eggs  may  be 
added,  or  a  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  may  be  mixed  to  a  thin 
paste  with  cold  milk  and  added  to  the  scalded  milk.  Use 
this  quantity  of  cornstarch  for  each  pint  or  two  cups  of 
milk.  More  bread  will  also  thicken  the  pudding,  but  it 
will  not  be  so  delicate. 

All  of  these  puddings  may  have  a  meringue  added  and 
in  that  case  use  only  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  in  the  foundation 
recipe,  reserving  the  white  for  the  meringue;  or  use  2  egg 
yolks  and  1  whole  egg  for  the  pudding.  After  the  pudding 
is  baked  spread  with  jelly  or  jam  and  then  the  meringue. 
A  well-made  meringue  is  light  and  adds  much  in  appear- 
ance and  taste  to  any  dessert.  But  a  poor,  tough  meringue 
is  a  waste  of  good  material. 

For  the  bread  pudding  meringue  use  2  egg  whites,  4 
tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar,  yi  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
flavoring.  Eggs  should  be  beaten  until  the  bowl  can  be 
inverted  without  fear  of  their  slipping  from  it;  then  add 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  at  a  time,  beating  well  or  until  mix- 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [273] 

ture  will  hold  its  shape.  Flavor  and  spread  over  pudding 
and  place  on  the  top  grate  in  a  very  moderate  oven.  The 
meringue  should  not  begin  to  color  for  at  least  5  minutes 
and  will  take  8  minutes  to  cook  sufficiently  and  become  a 
delicate  brown.  The  meringue  may  be  varied  by  adding 
1  tablespoon  of  ground  chocolate.  Powdered  sugar  never 
gives  as  satisfactory  meringue  as  granulated  sugar. 

Marshmallows  may  be  used  instead  of  the  meringue. 
When  the  pudding  is  baked  set  6  or  8  marshmallows  on 
top,  return  to  the  top  grate  of  the  oven  and  cook  until 
slightly  melted  and  a  golden  brown.  The  plain  bread 
pudding  may  be  served  with  various  pudding  sauces. 
If  individual  puddings  are  liked,  bake  the  bread  pudding 
in  custard  cups  or  ramekins. 

Custard  Bread  Pudding 

1  thick  slice  of  bread.  2  eggs. 

2  cups  scalded  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
]4  cup  sugar.  Grating  of  nutmeg. 

Soak  bread  in  cold  water  to  cover  15  minutes,  then 
press  dry  and  measure  1  cupful.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar, 
hot  milk,  bread  crumbs  and  flavoring.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  nutmeg.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm.  Or,  omit 
1  egg  for  a  meringue.  When  pudding  is  baked,  spread 
with  jelly  or  jam,  add  meringue  and  brown  in  a  slow 
oven.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Cocoanut  Bread  Pudding 

Follow  above  recipe,  using  1  cup  of  cocoanut  in  place 
of  the  raisins. 

Butterscotch  Bread  Pudding 

Butterscotch  bread  pudding  is  made  by  substituting 
brown  sugar  for  the  granulated  sugar,  using  the  custard 
bread  pudding  recipe.  Place  the  brown  sugar  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  the  butter  and  cook  until  all  the  sugar  is  melted; 
then  add  the  scalded  milk  and  stir  until  dissolved.  The 
brown  sugar  may  cause  the  milk  to  curdle  slightly,  but 
when  the  pudding  is  baked  this  will  disappear  and  the 
pudding  will  be  smooth  and  fine  in  texture. 


[274]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Fruit  Bread  Pudding 

Fruit  bread  pudding  is  made  by  adding  a  cup  of  seed- 
less raisins  and  %  teaspoon  cinnamon  to  custard  bread 
pudding  recipe. 

Caramel  Bread  Pudding 

Make  the  custard  bread  pudding  using  1  cupful  of 
sugar  instead  of  ^  of  a  cup.  Take  half  of  the  sugar  and 
cook  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  until  melted  and  a  golden 
brown.  This  will  require  constant  stirring.  When  cooked 
add  the  milk  very  slowly  and  cook  until  carameled  sugar 
is  dissolved;  then  follow  the  foundation  recipe. 


Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 

Chocolate  bread  pudding  is  made  by  adding  1  square 
of  unsweetened  chocolate  to  the  milk,  while  it  is  heating 
or  by  using  only  ]4.  cup  of  sugar  and  J^  cup  of  ground 
chocolate.    Follow  the  custard  bread  pudding  recipe. 


Maple  Bread  Pudding 

Maple  bread  pudding  is  made  by  substituting  either 
maple  syrup  or  maple  sugar  for  the  granulated  sugar  in 
the  custard  bread  pudding  recipe. 

Brown  Betty 

3  cups    finely    chopped    sour  K  cup  brown  sugar. 

apples.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

3  cups  soft  bread  crumbs  free  Nutmeg. 

from  crust. 

Butter  a  pudding  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  apples,  sprinkle 
with  some  of  the  sugar,  add  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  nut- 
meg. Repeat  until  all  materials  are  used,  having  last  layer 
crumbs;  dot  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Cover 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  apples  are  tender.  Uncover 
and  brown.    Serve  with  cream,  or  hard  or  liquid  sauce. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [275] 

Bread  and  Butter  Puddings 

Spread  6  half-inch  slices  of  bread  with  butter.  Place  the 
slices  in  a  baking  dish  with  the  buttered  side  down  and 
sprinkle  generously  with  raisins.  Scald  2  cups  of  milk; 
beat  2  eggs,  add  14.  cup  of  sugar  and  pour  the  hot  milk 
over  the  beaten  egg  mixture;  flavor  with  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla  and  pour  over  the  bread;  cover  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  about  20  minutes.  Uncover  and  brown.  Serve 
with  a  caramel  sauce. 


276]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 


Baked  Apple 


A  baked  apple  can  be  a  real  treat  if  properly  cooked. 
For  the  best  results  in  cooking  select  a  rather  sour  apple 
not  too  ripe.  If  the  apples  are  of  fine  flavor  no  other  sea- 
soning is  necessary,  but  if  somewhat  tasteless  a  small 
piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  a  little  freshly  grated  nutmeg,  a 
few  cloves,  a  slice  of  lemon  or  orange,  any  one  of  these 
flavorings  may  be  used.  A  little  butter  adds  greatly  to 
any  dish  made  of  apples. 

Be  sure  the  core  has  all  been  removed,  for  it  is  both  un- 
pleasant and  dangerous  to  get  a  piece  of  the  tough  core 
in  the  throat. 

Either  granulated  or  brown  sugar  may  be  used  to 
sweeten  baked  apples,  each  giving  a  diff"erent  flavor.  For 
variety  the  fruit  can  be  stuff"ed  before  baking  with  raisins 
and  walnuts,  prunes,  mince  meat  or  an  uncooked  custard. 
Or  after  baking  the  cores  may  be  filled  with  jelly  or  orange 
marmalade.    These  are  just  a  few  suggestions  for  variety. 

Wash  and  core  6  apples.  You  can  purchase  an  appliance 
which  does  this  work  quickly  and  well.  After  apples  are 
cored,  remove  a  portion  of  the  skin,  about  ^  inch  wide, 
from  the  center  of  the  apple.  Place  in  a  pan  with  a  cover 
or  in  a  casserole,  and  pour  over  the  fruit  a  syrup  made  of 
1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  1  cup  of  sugar  boiled  about  5 
minutes.  Cover  tightly  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  apples  are  soft,  but  not  broken. 

Twenty-five  minutes  is  about  the  time  required  for  bak- 
ing medium-sized  apples.  Remove  cover,  sprinkle  apples 
generously  with  sugar  and  place  on  the  top  grate  of  the 
oven  to  glaze.  Baste  with  the  syrup  several  times  and 
watch  closely  to  prevent  burning.  When  cooked  lift  each 
apple  carefully  to  a  serving  dish  and  pour  syrup  around 
them.    Chill  before  serving. 

If  1  or  2  apples  are  peeled,  cored,  sliced  and  placed 
around  the  apples  while  they  are  baking  and  then  the 
syrup  is  strained  through  a  fine  sieve  over  the  apples,  a 
rich  jelly  should  form  which  is  even  better  than  the  apples. 
If  desired,  season  with  nutmeg,  cloves  and  cinnamon. 

The  apples  can  be  served  plain  or  with  cream;  filled  in 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [277] 

the  manner  suggested  a  meringue  can  be  made  of  the 
white  of  one  egg  beaten  very  stiff,  adding  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  beating  again  with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Place  a 
spoonful  on  each  apple,  return  to  a  moderate  oven  and 
bake  about  10  minutes  to  a  golden  brown. 

Glazed  Apples 

Remove  the  skin  and  core  and  cook  partially  over  the 
fire  in  a  syrup  made  of  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  water 
for  6  apples.  When  apples  are  tender  remove  to  a  baking 
dish,  dredge  with  sugar,  pour  the  syrup  around  them  and 
bake  until  glazed  and  a  delicate  brown. 

Ginger  Apples 

Core  and  peel  apples,  allowing  one  for  each  service. 
For  6  apples  make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of 
water.  Cook  apples  in  syrup  until  tender,  but  not  broken. 
Turn  the  apples  while  cooking  and  do  not  cover  the  dish, 
as  the  steam  will  cause  them  to  break  in  pieces.  When 
cooked,  place  apples,  drained  of  syrup,  in  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish,  sprinkle  generously  with  sugar  and  set  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  to  glaze.  In  the  meantime  add  }4,  cup  of  finely 
chopped  preserved  or  crystallized  ginger  to  the  remaining 
syrup  and  cook  about  5  minutes.  When  apples  are  glazed 
and  slightly  colored  pour  over  the  syrup.  Serve  hot  or 
cold,  with  or  without  cream. 

Jellied  Apples 

Pare  and  core  as  many  apples  as  there  are  persons  to 
serve.  For  six  apples  make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  of  sugar  and 
1  cup  of  water.  Cook  apples  in  the  syrup  very  slowly, 
until  they  are  tender,  but  not  broken.  While  apples  are 
cooking  cut  rounds  of  sponge  cake  a  little  larger  than  the 
apple.  Any  left-over  plain  cake  may  be  used.  Set  a  cooked 
apple  on  each  slice  of  cake;  add  j^  glass  of  jelly  to  the 
syrup  the  apples  were  cooked  in;  cook  until  melted,  then 
pour  over  the  apples.  Cool  and  serve.  This  dish  is  at- 
tractive garnished  with  whipped  cream,  or  may  be  served 
with  plain  cream  if  desired. 


[278]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Apple  Sauce 

Peel,  quarter  and  core  apples.  Slice  and  drop  in  cold 
water  to  prevent  discoloration.  Drain,  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  hot  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Add 
sugar  to  taste  when  apples  are  cooked  and  beat  until 
smooth.  The  secret  of  a  clear  apple  sauce  is  cooking  with- 
out sugar. 

Glazed  Apples  With  Raisins 

Core  and  peel  apples.  For  6  apples  allow  1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  water.  Cook  sugar  and  water  about  5  minutes, 
then  add  apples  and  cook,  turning  often  until  apples  are 
tender  but  not  broken.  Remove  apples  to  a  baking  dish. 
Fill  the  centers  with  seeded  raisins,  adding  1  teaspoon  of 
chopped  walnuts  to  each  apple.  Dredge  apples  gener- 
ously with  sugar  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until  well 
glazed.  Reduce  the  syrup  the  apples  were  cooked  in  and 
pour  that  around  them.  To  be  served  from  the  baking 
dish  hot  or  cold,  with  or  without  cream.  If  served  cold  a 
teaspoonful  of  jelly  can  be  placed  on  top  of  each  apple. 

Coddled  Apples 

Wash  and  core  apples.  For  6  apples  use  1  cup  of  sugar 
and  13^  cups  of  water  and  a  quarter  section  of  orange  peel. 

Cook  water  and  sugar  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add 
orange  peel  and  apples.  Cook  slowly  until  apples  are  ten- 
der, but  not  broken.  Turn  frequently  so  apples  will  cook 
evenly.  When  cooked  remove  apples  to  a  serving  dish 
and  boil  down  the  syrup  until  thick,  then  pour  over  apples. 
Chill  and  serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [279 


Desserts  with  Biscuit  Dough  Foundation 

Note. — All  measurements  are  level  and  flour  is  sifted  once  before 
measuring.    One-half  pint  measuring  cup  is  used. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

2  cups  flour.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  4  tablespoons  shortening. 

J^  teaspoon  salt.  %  cup  milk. 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  rub  or  chop  in  the  shortening.  Add 
milk  gradually,  using  a  knife.  Turn  on  slightly  floured 
board  and  roll  or  pat  into  desired  shape. 

Old  Fashioned  Shortcake 

Use  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe.  Roll  on  floured 
board  to  fit  round  baking  pan.  Brush  top  with  melted 
shortening  or  milk.  Bake  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
Split  and  spread  with  butter  and  put  fruit  between  and 
on  top  of  shortcake.    Serve  with  or  without  cream. 

Shortcake  can  be  made  with  any  of  the  many  berries, 
sliced  bananas,  oranges  or  canned  fruit.  If  strawberries 
are  used,  they  should  be  sweetened,  placed  on  back  of 
range  and  slightly  crushed. 

Prune  or  Fruit  Dumplings 

Follow  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe.  Roll  dough  as  for 
biscuits,  but  cut  in  4  inch  squares.  In  the  center  of  each 
square  place  one  or  two  cooked  prunes  with  pit  removed; 
bring  the  four  points  of  the  square  together  at  the  top 
and  press  edges  together.  Place  in  greased  baking  pan  or 
muffin  tins  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  with  the  prune 
juice  boiled  down  until  thick,  adding  1  teaspoon  of  butter 
or  a  pudding  sauce.  Any  other  fruit  may  be  used,  either 
cooked  or  raw,  apples  being  especially  good. 

Orange  Turnovers 

Follow  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe.  Roll  dough  to 
about  3^  inch  in  thickness,  then  cut  in  4-inch  squares. 
Place  a  spoonful  of  orange  marmalade  in  the  center  of  each 


[280]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

square,  then  fold  over  diagonally  and  press  edges  firmly 
together.  Place  in  a  slightly  greased  pan,  brush  over  the 
top  with  melted  shortening  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Serve  with  a  marshmallow  sauce. 

Plain  Fruit  Cobbler 

Follow  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe.  Grease  a  shallow 
pan,  cover  bottom  with  fruit  or  berries.  With  uncooked 
fruit,  sweeten  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour  to  sugar  to 
thicken  the  juice.  Roll  out  dough  }/l  inch  thick,  place  on 
fruit,  brush  over  dough  with  melted  shortening  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven,  if  fruit  is  uncooked,  and  a  hot  oven  for 
cooked  fruit.    Serve  with  a  vanilla  sauce. 

Apples  are  particularly  good  in  this  cobbler. 

Steamed  Fruit  Roll 

Use  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe;  roll  to  >^  inch  thick- 
ness, cover  with  jam,  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll,  pinching 
dough  together  where  it  joins  at  the  ends,  to  keep  in  the 
fruit.  Place  on  well-greased  plate  and  steam  1  hour.  Serve 
with  a  hot  pudding  sauce  or  with  sugar  and  cream. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [281] 

PASTRY  DESSERTS 
Bambury  Tarts 

1  egg,  beaten.  1  sodacracker  rolled  to  fine 

1  cup  finely  chopped  raisins.  crximbs. 

y^  lemon  grated  rind  and  juice.       2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Mix  in  the  order  named.  Roll  flaky  pastry  3^  inch 
thick.  Cut  into  4  inch  squares.  Place  a  spoonful  of  the 
Bambury  mixture  in  the  center  of  each  square,  fold  over 
in  a  triangular  shape,  brush  the  edges  with  cold  water  and 
press  together.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Fruit  Tarts  No.  1 

Line  patty  pans  with  flaky  pastry.  Prepare  ^  of  the 
French  cream  filling  and  place  a  tablespoonful  in  each 
tart.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Cool  and  fill  with  fresh  berries 
or  halves  of  cooked  peaches,  apricots  or  pears  turned 
round  side  up.  Melt  a  little  jelly  and  pour  over  for  a 
glaze. 

Fruit  Tarts  No.  2 

Line  patty  pans  with  flaky  pastry.  Fill  with  apple 
sauce  or  any  fruit  marmalade  or  jam.  Slice  apples  or 
bananas  very  thin  and  cover  the  top.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Apple  Roll 

Make  a  flaky  or  plain  pastry.  Roll  out  to  3^  inch  thick- 
ness. Cover  with  thinly  sliced  apples,  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  a  little  nutmeg  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter  about  1 
tablespoonful.  Roll  as  for  jelly  roll,  brush  the  edges  with 
cold  water  and  pinch  together.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  and 
serve  with  a  hard  sauce. 

Baked  Fruit  Pudding 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  or  casserole 
with  fruit  cooked  or  raw  having  dish  about  J^  full.  Make 
yi  of  the  plain  pastry  recipe  and  roll  out  to  cover  the  top 
of  the  fruit.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  reducing  heat  after  10 
minutes,  and  bake  until  fruit  is  cooked.  Apples  sliced 
thin,  logan  or  blackberries  are  very  good  for  this  pudding. 
Canned  fruit  such  as  apricots  or  peaches  are  also  good. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 


[282]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Gelatine  desserts 

With  different  flavors,  fruits,  colors  and  combina- 
tions, a  great  variety  of  attractive  desserts  can  be 
made  with  gelatine.  They  are  not  difficult  to  prepare, 
although  some  of  them  appear  quite  complicated. 
There  are  a  few  principles  to  keep  in  mind  when  un- 
dertaking these  dishes,  and  when  these  are  learned, 
even  the  most  elaborate  gelatine  dessert  will  become  a 
simple  undertaking.  Fruit-flavored  jellies  are  the  most 
popular,  and  usually  form  the  foundation  for  the  various 
combinations.  Before  preparing  the  dessert,  soak  the 
gelatine  in  cold  water  3^  hour  or  more  to  soften  it;  then 
dissolve  in  hot  water  or  the  hot  mixture.  Do  not  boil  the 
liquid  after  the  gelatine  has  been  added,  or  the  jelly  will 
be  tough.  Two  tablespoons  of  granulated  gelatine  will 
stiff^en  1  quart  of  liquid,  if  kept  in  a  cool  place.  When 
fruit  is  added  to  the  jelly,  use  less  liquid  or  more  gelatine. 
After  the  gelatine  and  sugar  are  dissolved,  strain  the  mix- 
ture through  a  fine  sieve  or  cheese  cloth  bag,  and  then 
turn  into  a  wet  mold  to  set 

In  moderate  weather  the  jelly  will  be  firm,  in  from  4  to 
6  hours.  The  larger  the  proportion  of  gelatine  to  the 
liquid  the  sooner  the  liquid  will  become  firm;  but  too 
much  gelatine  will  give  an  unpleasant  flavor  and  make 
the  jelly  tough.  It  is  always  wise  to  use  the  quantity  of 
gelatine  recommended  by  the  manufacturer  of  the  prod- 
uct. Directions  for  using  are  usually  printed  on  the 
package. 

To  mold  fancy  jellies,  place  the  form  in  a  bowl  contain- 
ing cracked  ice;  have  jelly  cold,  but  not  set.  Pour  in  a 
layer  of  jelly,  let  set  until  firm,  add  fruit,  nuts,  etc.,  add 
another  layer  of  jelly,  allow  that  to  become  firm  and  con- 
tinue until  all  have  been  used;  then  set  aside  until  read)'^ 
to  serve.  To  unmold,  dip  the  form  quickly  into  warm 
water  (not  hot),  wipe  perfectly  dry,  place  a  dish  over 
the  top  of  the  mold  and  turn  them  over  together.  If  the 
water  is  too  warm  the  jelly  will  start  to  melt  and  destroy 
the  appearance  of  the  dessert. 

From  a  plain  fruit  jelly  several  very  simple  desserts 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [283] 

may  be  prepared.  A  Russian  jelly  is  made  by  simply 
beating  the  cold  unset  liquid  of  any  of  the  fruit  jelly 
foundations  to  a  stiff  froth  with  an  egg-beater.  When 
almost  congealed,  pour  into  wet  molds  and  set  aside  to 
become  thoroughly  chilled.  This  form  of  jelly  will  be 
light  and  frothy  throughout.  Fruits  or  nuts  may  be 
added  to  the  jelly  after  it  has  almost  congealed,  then 
mold  and  chill.  Snow  pudding  is  made  by  making  the 
Russian  jelly,  adding  for  each  quart  of  jelly  the  whites 
of  2  eggs.  Pile  in  a  serving  dish  and  serve  with  cream  or 
a  custard  sauce. 

Any  of  the  plain  fruit  jellies  or  coffee  jelly  may  be 
changed  by  using  one  of  the  methods  just  given. 

Lemon  Jelly 

3^  box  or  2  tablespoons  granu-      2  cups  boiling  water. 

lated  gelatine.  134  cups  sugar. 

Yi  cup  cold  water.  M  cup  lemon  juice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Add  sugar  to  boiling 
water  and  stir  until  dissolved,  then  add  gelatine  and 
stir  that  also  until  dissolved.  When  partly  cold,  add 
lemon  juice;  strain  and  pour  into  wet  molds. 

Orange  Jelly 

H  box  or  2  tablespoons  granu-  2  cups  orange  juice  and  grated 

lated  gelatine.  rind. 

Yi  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  sugar. 
1  cup  boiling  water. 

Follow  directions  for  making  lemon  jelly. 
Caramel  Jelly 

H  box  or  2  tablespoons  granu-  1  cup  sugar. 

lated  gelatine.  1  cup  thin  cream. 

Yi  cup  cold  water.  V/i  cups  milk. 
1  cup  boiling  water. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Take  yi  cup  of  sugar 
and  stir  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  until  it  is  melted  and 
turns  to  a  golden  syrup;  add  the  boiling  water  and  cook  to 
a  thick  syrup.  Let  cool  slightly,  add  gelatine,  remaining 
y^  cup  of  sugar  and  strain  into  the  milk.  Turn  into  wet 
molds  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Serve  with  a 
custard  sauce  or  cream. 


[284]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Mocha  Charlotte  Russe 

\i  box  or  1  tablespoon  granu-       1  cup  boiling  strong  cofifee. 

lated  gelatine.  1  cup  whipped  cream. 

^  cup  cold  water.  2  egg  yolks. 

1  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine.  Add  sugar  to  boiling  coffee;  when  dis- 
solved add  gelatine.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  slowly  add 
the  coffee  mixture,  let  chill  and  before  the  mixture  begins 
to  thicken,  fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Line  a  mold  with 
lady  fingers  and  when  the  gelatine  mixture  will  hold  in 
shape,  pour  into  the  mold. 

Banana  Charlotte  Russe 

2  tablespoons  granulated  gela-       1  lemon  (juice). 

tine.  1  cup  mashed  bananas. 

]/2  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  whipping  cream. 

2  egg  yolks.  Lady  fingers. 

1  cup  sugar.  Chopped  blanched  almonds. 

To  blanch  almonds,  shell  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Let  stand  5  minutes,  drain,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
the  shells  can  easily  be  removed.  Scald  milk,  add  >^  cup 
sugar;  beat  egg  yolks  and  add  remaining  half  cup  sugar, 
combine  mixtures  and  cook  over  hot  water  until  mixture 
thickens,  then  add  bananas  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add 
lemon  juice  and  cool,  then  stir  until  somewhat  thick  and 
fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Line  a  mold  with  lady  fingers, 
pour  in  the  mixture  and  set  aside  to  become  firm.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 


Spanish  Cream 

3^  box  or  2  tablespoons  granu-  %  cup  sugar. 

lated  gelatine.  2  eggs. 

3  cups  milk.  1  tablespoon  vanilla. 
]4,  cup  cold  water. 

Soak  gelatine.  Scald  the  milk,  add  sugar  and  pour 
over  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  slightly  thickened.  Add  gelatine  and  flavor- 
ing and  pour  the  mixture  over  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.  Pour  into  a  wet  mold  and  chill.  Serve  with 
cream. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [285] 

Mock  Biscuit  Tortoni 

1  cup  scalded  milk.  1  tablespoon  gelatine. 

1  egg.  Yi  cup  cold  water. 

3^3  cup  sugar.  1  cup  whipped  cream. 

1  cup  macaroon  crumbs.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Beat  egg,  add  sugar  then 
hot  milk.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until 
mixture  is  creamy  and  clings  to  the  spoon.  Remove  from 
fire,  add  dissolved  gelatine.  Set  aside  to  cool  then  stir 
until  somewhat  thick.  Add  macaroons,  vanilla  and  fold 
in  the  whipped  cream.  Pour  into  a  wet  mold  and  set 
aside  to  become  firm.  To  serve  unmold  and  garnish  with 
sweetened  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Orange  Bavarian 

2  tablespoons  granulated  gela-       K  cup  orange  marmalade. 

tine.  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Yi  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  whipping  cream. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  15  minutes  then  melt 
over  hot  water.  Whip  cream,  add  lemon  juice  and  fold 
in  the  marmalade,  then  add  dissolved  gelatine  and  pour 
into  a  mold  and  set  aside  to  become  firm.  Any  fruit  jam 
or  mashed  strained  cooked  fruit  may  replace  the  mar- 
malade. If  not  desired  molded  omit  the  gelatine  and  pile 
in  sherbet  cups. 

Butter  Scotch  Rice  Pudding 

3  tablespoons  butter.  Yi  cup  cold  water. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  cup  cooked  rice. 

2  cups  hot  milk.  1  cup  whipping  cream. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  tablespoons  granulated  gela- 

tine. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  for  15  minutes.  Put 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  sugar  and  cook  over  a  low 
fire,  stirring  constantly  until  melted;  add  milk  and  stir 
until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Remove  from  fire,  add  the  gela- 
tine and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  beginning  to  thicken 
add  rice  and  vanilla  and  fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Pour 
into  a  wet  mold  and  set  aside  to  become  firm.  Serve  with 
a  custard  sauce.  The  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  may 
replace  the  cream. 


[286]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK 

Apple  Snow 

2  cups  apple  sauce.  Whites  of  2  eggs. 

1  lemon. 

2  tablespoons  granulated  gela- 

tine,  dissolved  in  yi   cup 
cold  water. 

Press  apple  sauce  through  a  sieve.  Heat  to  the  boiling 
point,  then  add  soaked  gelatine  and  stir  until  well 
mixed  and  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Chill,  and  when  mixture 
begins  to  thicken  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and 
beat  until  somewhat  stiff.  Turn  into  a  mold  and  when 
firm  unmold  and  serve  with  a  custard  sauce  made  with 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 


MRS.   DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [287] 

Whipped  Cream  Desserts 

During  the  summer  months  cold  desserts  make  a 
strong  appeal  to  the  busy  housewife.  Cream  in  com- 
bination with  berries  and  other  fresh  fruits  offer  a  wonder- 
ful variety. 

Desserts  made  of  whipped  cream  and  fruit  are  whole- 
some and  very  easily  prepared.  Cream  is  no  more  ex- 
pensive than  other  dessert  materials  and  when  one  con- 
siders how  quickly  these  dishes  can  be  made,  most  of 
them  requiring  no  cooking,  and  can  be  as  plain  or  elaborate 
as  one  feels  inclined,  cream  will  not  seem  to  be  an  extrava- 
gance. 

Whipped  cream  desserts  should  be  light  and  frothy  and 
with  sufficient  body  to  hold  in  shape  for  at  least  several 
hours.  In  order  to  whip  easily  cream  should  be  36  hours 
old  and  perfectly  cold.  Gelatine  will  keep  whipped 
cream  firm,  and  a  small  quantity  is  usually  added  for 
this  purpose,  although  if  the  cream  is  properly  whipped 
and  chilled  this  should  not  be  necessary. 

The  average  housekeeper  does  not  always  realize  the 
possibilities  of  a  small  quantity  of  whipped  cream,  other- 
wise she  would  use  it  frequently. 

A  plain  and  simple  dessert  may  be  transformed  and 
made  quite  festive  with  a  garnish  or  sauce  of  whipped 
cream,  besides  being  more  palatable  and  wholesome.  The 
various  Charlottes  and  the  Bavarian  creams,  where 
whipped  cream  forms  the  foundation,  are  usually  enjoyed, 
and  these  desserts  do  not  tax  the  digestion  after  a  hearty 
meal,  as  will  pastry  or  baked  or  steamed  pudding. 

To  whip  cream  successfully  it  must  be  thoroughly  cold 
and  may  be  easily  beaten  with  a  rotary  egg-beater. 
Heavy  or  double  cream  is  very  quickly  whipped  and  care 
should  be  taken  not  to  beat  it  a  moment  too  long,  or  the 
cream  will  turn  to  butter.  Also  bear  in  mind  that  if  the 
cream  has  not  been  sufficiently  chilled  it  may  turn  quickly 
to  butter,  which  explains  the  oily,  heavy  whipped  cream 
frequently  seen.  Thin  cream  may  be  whipped  in  the 
same  manner,  only  it  will  take  more  beating  and  the  bowl 
containing  the  cream  should  be  set  in  a  pan  of  very  cold 


[288]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

water;  or,  better  still,  cracked  ice.  Cream  will  double  in 
bulk  when  properly  whipped,  and  this  should  be  taken 
into  consideration  when  buying;  also  provide  a  bowl 
large  enough  to  allow  for  this  increase,  otherwise  the 
cream  cannot  be  easily  beaten. 

Results  will  be  more  satisfactory  when  sugar  and  flav- 
orings are  added  after  cream  has  been  whipped,  these  in- 
gredients being  carefully  folded  into  the  cream  with  a 
spoon. 

An  almost  endless  variety  of  desserts  may  be  easily 
and  quickly  made  using  whipped  cream  as  the  founda- 
tion, or  as  a  garnish  or  sauce.  Charlotte  russe  and  Bavar- 
ian creams  are  not  difficult  to  make  and  are  elaborate 
enough  to  use  for  any  occasion.  Mousses  and  parfaits 
require  freezing,  but  as  they  are  not  turned  during  the 
process  of  freezing  and  do  not  require  an  ice  cream  freezer, 
they  are  not  troublesome  desserts  to  prepare. 

Fruit  Bavarians 

Put  sufficient  canned  or  fresh  fruit  through  a  colander 
to  make  2  cupfuls.  Soak  2  tablespoons  of  granulated 
gelatine  in  '%.  cup  of  cold  water  for  15  minutes,  then  set 
dish  over  hot  water  to  slowly  dissolve  the  gelatine.  Add 
powdered  sugar  to  fruit  to  taste,  the  amount  will  vary 
with  diff"erent  fruit;  add  dissolved  gelatine  to  fruit  and 
stir  until  well  mixed  and  sugar  is  dissolved;  then  set  bowl 
containing  mixture  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  stir  until 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Whip  one  cup  of  cream,  carefully 
fold  it  into  the  fruit  mixture,  and  turn  into  a  mold  which 
has  been  dipped  into  cold  water.  Set  aside  in  a  cool  place 
to  become  firm.  To  serve  turn  out  of  mold  and  garnish 
with  a  sauce  made  of  sweetened  mashed  fruit. 

Charlotte  Russe 

A  charlotte  diff"ers  from  a  Bavarian  cream  in  that  it  is 
made  entirely  of  whipped  cream  with  no  fruit  or  liquid. 
Cover  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  gelatine  with  yi  cup  of 
cold  milk  and  soak  about  15  minutes;  whip  2  cups  of 
cream,  add  3^  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  teaspoon  of 
vanilla;  set  the  gelatine  over  hot  water  to  dissolve,  then 
add  quickly  to  the  whipped  cream,  stirring  rapidly  in 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [289] 

order  to  have  dissolved  gelatine  well  mixed  before  it  cools. 
This  is  most  important,  otherwise  the  gelatine  will  be  in 
thick  lumps  and  the  mixture  will  not  thicken.  Stir  the 
cream  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place  until  it 
begins  to  thicken.  Place  a  row  of  split  lady  fingers  around 
the  side  of  the  mold,  leaving  the  bottom  of  the  mold  un- 
covered; then  pour  in  enough  of  the  cream  mixture  to 
cover  the  lady  fingers;  add  another  row  of  lady  fingers  and 
then  the  cream,  repeating  until  the  mold  is  filled.  By  this 
method  the  lady  fingers  may  easily  be  kept  in  place.  Set 
aside  to  thoroughly  chill.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  onto 
a  serving  plate.  If  you  are  the  possessor  of  a  pastry  bag 
the  charlotte  may  be  made  very  attractive  by  garnishing 
with  whipped  cream  forced  through  the  bag,  using  a  star 
tube.  Mocha  Charlotte  Russe  is  made  by  adding  1  table- 
spoon of  coffee  extract  to  the  whipped  cream  and  using 
coffee  instead  of  milk  to  dissolve  the  gelatine. 

Chocolate  charlotte  russe  is  made  in  the  same  way, 
using  2  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate,  melted  over 
hot  water,  or  3^  cup  ground  chocolate  added  to  the 
whipped  cream.  Fruit  charlottes  are  made  by  molding 
the  plain  charlotte  in  a  border  mold.  When  ready  to  serve 
turn  out  and  fill  the  center  with  fruit. 

Marshmallow  Strawberry  Pudding 

1  cup  hulled  strawberries  cut       1  cup  cream  whipped. 

in  halves.  M  cup  sugar. 

3^  cup  marshmallows  cut  fine.      1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract. 

Cream  should  be  beaten  very  stiff,  adding  vanilla  and 
sugar.  Fold  in  strawberries  and  marshmallows.  Fill 
sherbet  cups  or  tall  glasses  with  mixture,  garnish  with 
whole  berries  and  serve  very  cold. 


Cream  Whips 

Whip  cream,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  put  a 
generous  tablespoon  of  any  preserve,  or  crushed  sweetened 
fresh  fruit  in  sherbet  cups  or  tall  glasses;  pile  the  whipped 
cream  lightly  on  top  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts. 


[290]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Molded  Fruit  Cream 

Peel  4  bananas,  mash  and  rub  through  a  sieve;  add  the 
juice  of  1  orange  and  a  Httle  of  the  grated  rind,  1  table- 
spoon lemon  juice  and  enough  powdered  sugar  to  sweeten. 

Soak  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  gelatine  in  ^4.  cup  of 
cold  water  about  15  minutes;  then  dissolve  over  hot 
water.  Add  to  the  fruit  mixture,  stirring  rapidly.  Set 
bowl  containing  mixture  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  or  cracked 
ice  and  stir  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Whip  1  cup 
of  cream  and  fold  into  the  mixture;  pour  into  individual 
molds  and  set  aside  to  become  firm. 


Rice  Dainty 

V/i.  cups  cooked  rice.  3^  cup  powdered  sugar. 

1  cup  grated  pineapple.  1  cup  whipping  cream. 

Carefully  drain  all  juice  from  grated  pineapple;  add 
rice  and  sugar.  Whip  cream  and  fold  into  mixture.  Serve 
very  cold  in  sherbet  or  cocktail  glasses.  Garnish  with 
maraschino  cherries. 


Surprise  Charlotte  Russe 

Line  individual  or  large  dish  with  lady  fingers  or  thin 
slices  of  sponge  cake.  Whip  1  cup  of  whipping  cream; 
add  2  tablespoons  (level)  of  powdered  sugar  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Line  sides  and  bottom  of  cake-lined 
dish  with  whipped  cream,  place  cooked  or  fresh  sweetened 
fruit  in  the  center,  then  cover  with  whipped  cream. 
Sufficient  for  3  persons. 

Raisin  Charlotte  Russe 

Soak  seedless  raisins  in  orange  juice  for  several  hours, 
then  drain  olF  all  juice.  Allow  1  cup  of  raisins  to  1  pint  of 
cream.  Whip  cream  and  flavor  with  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
extract;  add  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  the  rais- 
ins. Line  sherbet  glasses  with  split  lady  fingers  or  thin 
slices  of  sponge  cake  and  put  the  charlotte  russe  in  the 
center.    Garnish  the  top  with  raisins. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [291] 

Strawberry  Whip 

1  cup  hulled  strawberries.  1  egg  white,  unbeaten. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  Yi  cup  whipping  cream. 

Put  berries,  sugar  and  white  of  egg  in  a  bowl  and  beat 
with  a  whip  egg  beater  until  the  consistency  of  whipped 
cream.  This  will  take  about  15  minutes.  Fold  in  the 
whipped  cream  last.  Chill  and  serve  in  sherbet  glasses 
with  sponge  cake.     Other  fruits  may  replace  strawberries. 

Marshmallow  Cream 

Whip  1  cupful  of  cream,  adding  2  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
fold  into  this  ]/^  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  any  kind  but  pea 
nuts;  1  cup  of  canned  pineapple  cut  in  cubes  and  drained 
from  the  juice,  1  cup  of  marshmallows  cut  fine;  mix  well 
until  all  is  a  creamy  mass;  other  fruits  may  be  substituted 
for  the  pineapple.    Serve  in  sherbet  cups. 


[292]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Frozen  Desserts 

At  any  season  of  the  year  frozen  desserts  are  accept- 
able. Most  housewives  depend  upon  the  confectioner 
to  supply  their  ices  and  ice  creams,  although  it  is  quite 
a  simple  matter  to  prepare  them  at  home.  The  trouble 
of  making  them  is  no  greater  than  that  of  making  any 
dessert  equally  as  attractive  and  palatable;  and  the 
question  of  expense  is  small  as  compared  with  the 
prices  charged  by  the  best  caterers,  and  no  more  than 
any  dish  requiring  the  same  amount  of  eggs,  milk  or 
cream. 

For  example,  a  plain  ice  cream  is  a  frozen  custard  or 
just  plain  table  cream  sweetened,  flavored  and  frozen. 
With  a  good  ice  cream  freezer,  either  ice  cream  or  water 
ice  may  be  made  quickly,  and  has  the  advantage  over 
hot  desserts  in  that  they  require  no  attention  at  dinner 
time.  Parfaits  and  mousses  require  no  stirring  while 
freezing,  and  this  class  of  frozen  cream  is  one  of  the  best 
of  the  frozen  desserts. 

Ice  creams  and  water  ices  may  be  classified  as  follows: 
Philadelphia  ice  cream  is  a  thin  cream,  sweetened,  flav- 
ored and  frozen;  French  ice  creams  are  custards  of  different 
degrees  of  richness  frozen;  Parfaits  and  Mousses  are 
whipped  cream,  with  or  without  eggs,  and  frozen  without 
stirring;  Water  Ices  are  frozen  fruits  juices,  sweetened  with 
a  sugar  syrup,  with  a  little  gelatine  added  to  give  body  to 
the  ice  and  to  keep  it  from  melting  when  served.  Sherbet 
is  a  water  ice  with  beaten  white  of  egg  added  to  the  mix- 
ture; frozen  punches  are  water  ices  with  liquor  mixed 
with  them  before  or  after  they  are  frozen. 

Unless  the  cream  is  to  be  whipped  it  should  be  scalded, 
otherwise  the  frozen  cream  will  have  a  raw  taste.  The 
scalding  should  be  done  in  a  double  boiler  and  simply 
allow  the  cream  to  heat  through;  if  it  is  boiled  or  cooked 
too  long  the  cream  will  not  increase  in  quantity  when 
frozen. 

All  frozen  mixtures  increase  in  bulk  during  freezing,  so 
never  fill  the  can  over  two-thirds  full.  It  is  an  economy 
of  time  and  ice  to  chill  the  mixture  before  freezing.    The 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [293] 

texture  of  ices  is  much  better  when  not  frozen  too  quickly. 
One  measure  of  rock  salt  to  three  measures  of  finely- 
crushed  ice  are  the  proportions  to  use  for  mixtures  to  be 
stirred  while  freezing.  The  ice  should  be  pounded  in  a 
coarse  sack  and  should  be  almost  as  fine  as  the  salt  for 
the  freezing  process;  but  for  packing,  the  water  should  all 
be  drained  off  and  the  ice  broken  in  small  lumps  which 
will  not  melt  quickly,  and  very  little  salt  is  required.  Too 
much  salt  will  cause  the  mixture  to  thicken  too  quickly 
and  the  cream  will  be  coarse  and  granular.  Do  not  draw 
off  the  salt  water  until  cream  is  frozen. 

Creams  and  ices  ripen  or  become  blended  by  standing, 
so  they  should  be  made  some  time  before  serving.  Water 
ices  are  the  simplest  form  of  frozen  desserts.  They  are 
inexpensive,  and  are  easily  made.  The  sugar  and  water 
should  always  be  boiled  to  a  thick  syrup,  otherwise  the 
ice  will  have  a  raw  taste  and  a  coarse  texture. 

Mousses  are  made  of  whipped  cream,  flavored  and 
sweetened,  then  poured  into  a  closely  covered  mold  and 
packed  in  finely  cracked  ice  and  coarse  rock  salt,  and 
left  to  ripen  3  hours  or  more.  Fruit  drained  of  all  juice 
may  be  added  to  the  cream  before  freezing. 

These  make  very  attractive  desserts  and  can  be  pre- 
pared early  in  the  day  and  packed  in  ice  and  allowed  to 
stand.  The  pail  or  utensil  containing  the  mold  should 
be  drained  of  water  several  times  and  the  melted  ice 
replaced  with  fresh  cracked  ice. 

The  accompanying  recipes  are  all  the  housewife  will 
require  for  water  ice  or  ice  cream.  The  amounts  may  be 
increased  and  different  ingredients  used,  but  the  founda- 
tion principles  will  remain  the  same. 

Frozen  Custard  or  French  Ice  Cream 

2  cups  scalded  milk.  2  eggs. 

%  cup  sugar.  J^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  com  starch.  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  corn  starch;  add  to  beaten  eggs. 
Pour  hot  milk  over  mixture.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  and 
stir  constantly  until  mixture  becomes  thick  enough  to 
coat  a  spoon.  Cool,  flavor  and  freeze.  1  cup  of  thin 
cream  may  be  added  to  the  chilled  custard  before  freezing. 


[294]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

The  yolks  of  eggs  only  may  be  used  in  the  custard,  and 
when  cool  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  may  be  added.  To 
this  foundation  different  flavorings  or  chopped  nuts  may 
be  used. 

Fruit  Ice  Cream 

Crush  2  cups  of  berries  and  press  through  a  puree 
strainer  or  sieve.  Prepare  the  custard  and  when  cool  add 
the  fruit,  additional  sugar  if  needed,  and  the  cream 
whipped  or  plain,  and  freeze. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream 

4  cups  or  1  quart  of  thin  cream.       1  tablespoon  vanilla. 
1  cup  sugar. 

The  cream  should  not  be  too  thick  or  it  may  form  fine 
particles  of  butter  while  being  stirred.  Scald  the  cream 
and  add  the  sugar.  When  cool  add  flavoring  and  freeze. 
Pack  and  let  ripen  for  an  hour  or  more. 

Bisque  Ice  Cream 

Add  \y2  cups  of  macaroon  crumbs,  rolled  very  fine,  to 
the  Philadelphia  ice  cream  just  before  freezing.  Pack  and 
allow  to  ripen. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

Add  3^  cup  of  ground  chocolate  to  the  sugar  of  either 
custard  or  Philadelphia  ice  cream. 

Frozen  Pudding 

Shred  1^  cups  mixed  candied  fruit  and  soak  in  orange 
juice  for  an  hour.  Freeze  Philadelphia  ice  cream  until  it 
begins  to  thicken,  add  fruit,  then  finish  freezing.  Pack 
and  allow  to  ripen  an  hour  or  more. 

Fruit  Mousses 

Whip  1  pint  or  2  cups  of  cream;  add  1  cup  of  any  fruit 
pulp  free  from  juice,  and  add  powdered  sugar  to  taste. 
Pour  into  a  mold,  cover  with  clean  paper,  adjust  cover 
and  pack  in  equal  parts  of  crushed  ice  and  salt.  Let  stand 
3  hours  to  ripen.    Unmold  to  serve. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [295] 

Water  Ice 

1  quart  or  4  cups  of  water.  4  tablespoons  cold  water. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  cups  fruit  juice. 
1  teaspoon  gelatine.  Juice  of  lemon. 

Boil  water  and  sugar  about  15  minutes.  Soak  gelatine 
in  cold  water  until  soft,  add  to  the  hot  syrup  and  cool; 
then  add  fruit  and  lemon  juice  and  freeze.  To  obtain  the 
fruit  juice  or  crushed  fruit  mash  the  fruit  and  squeeze 
through  a  cheese  cloth,  or  press  through  a  puree  strainer. 
Any  fruit  or  fruit  juice  may  be  used.  Pack  and  allow  to 
ripen  2  hours  or  more. 

Sherbet 

Add  2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  to  the  water  ice  formula 
when  partly  frozen.  When  frozen  pack  and  allow  to  ripen 
at  least  2  hours.    Crushed  fruit  makes  the  best  sherbet. 


Maple  Mousse 

1  cup  maple  syrup.  2  cups  cream,  whipped. 

4  egg  yolks. 

Beat  yolks  until  light  and  lemon  colored;  heat  the  syrup 
and  pour  over  the  beaten  yolks.  Return  mixture  to  sauce- 
pan and  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Cool  the 
mixture  and  beat  until  creamy.  When  cold  carefully  fold 
in  the  whipped  cream.  Fill  mold,  cover,  pack  in  equal 
parts  of  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  at  least  2  hours,  while 
longer  would  be  better. 

Biscuit  Tortoni 

1  cup  sugar.  1  tablespoon  orange  extract. 

yi  cup  boiling  water.  2  cups  double  cream,  whipped. 

3  egg  yolks.  1  cup  macaroon  crumbs. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  soft-ball  stage  is  reached. 
Pour  slowly  over  the  beaten  yolks.  Return  to  fire  and 
cook  over  hot  water  until  mixture  is  somewhat  thick- 
ened; beat  until  cold,  flavor  and  fold  in  the  whipped 
cream.  Add  crumbs  and  pack  in  a  mold.  Pack  mold  in 
3  parts  ice  to  1  of  salt  and  let  stand  2  or  3  hours  to  freeze. 


[296]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Pineapple  Parfait 

1  cup  pineapple  juice.  1  cup  grated  pineapple. 

%  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  pistachio  flavoring. 

2  egg  whites.  1  cup  cream,  whipped. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  pineapple  juice  about  10  minutes 
Pour  slov/ly  over  the  well-beaten  egg  whites,  using  an 
egg-beater.  Beat  until  cold,  add  the  fruit,  flavoring,  and 
fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Turn  into  a  mold,  cover  with 
paper  and  adjust  cover.  Pack  in  equal  measures  of  salt 
and  crushed  ice  and  let  stand  at  least  3  hours.  This  cream 
needs  no  stirring.  The  grated  pineapple  is  used  and  the 
juice  obtained  by  draining  the  fruit.  The  flavoring  may 
be  omitted. 

Frozen  Meringues 

Fill  meringue  shells  with  sweetened,  flavored  whipped 
cream.  Place  in  the  freezer  or  any  utensil  with  a  tight 
cover.  Pack  in  equal  parts  finely  crushed  ice  and  salt. 
Let  stand  about  2  hours. 


CHAPTER  THIRTEEN 

JELLIES  JAMS 

CANNING  OF  VEGETABLES  AND  FRUIT  BY  THE 

COLD  PACK  METHOD 

PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 


298]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 


Jellies  and  Jams 


In  securing  fruits  for  making  jelly,  always  procure 
those  which  are  somewhat  under-ripe.  The  jelly- 
making  quality  in  fruit  is  known  as  pectin  and  is 
'present  when  the  fruit  is  either  ripe  or  just  turning 
ripe.  If  the  fruit  is  over-ripe  the  pectin  disappears,  and  it 
will  be  impossible  to  make  satisfactory  jelly.  This  pectin 
is  somewhat  like  gelatine,  as  it  dissolves  in  boiling  liquid 
and  stiffens  upon  cooling.  The  fruits  best  suited  for  jelly 
making  are  currants,  plums,  quinces,  crabapples,  grapes 
and  apples.  These  fruits  will  make  a  perfect  jelly  if  not 
used  over-ripe.  Fruits  in  which  pectin  is  lacking  must  be 
combined  with  those  rich  in  this  jelly-making  quality. 
The  novice  in  housekeeping  usually  shrinks  from  jelly 
making,  but  if  rules  are  carefully  studied  and  only  a  small 
quantity  attempted  at  one  time  the  process  will  be  found 
very  simple  and  the  results  satisfactory. 

The  addition  of  sugar  to  cooked  fruit  increases  the  nu- 
tritive value,  and  the  cooking  of  the  sugar  at  a  high  tem- 
perature, combined  with  the  acid  of  the  fruit,  causes  the 
inversion  of  the  sugar,  which  is  the  first  step  in  its  diges- 
tion. For  this  reason  jellies,  jams  and  marmalades  are 
considered  one  of  the  most  wholesome  forms  in  which  to 
eat  sugar.  Children  crave  sweets  and.  this  desire  may  be 
gratified  in  wholesome  jellies,  jams  and  marmalades.  Un- 
less combined  with  sugar,  the  actual  food  value  of  fruit 
is  low;  but  the  acids  and  salts  it  contains  are  most  im- 
portant. They  are  needed  to  keep  the  blood  pure.  There 
is  nothing  more  wholesome  for  children  and  no  food  the 
average  child  enjoys  more  than  bread  and  jelly  or  mar- 
malade. 

A  good  jelly  should  be  bright  in  color,  and  clear.  When 
removed  from  the  glass  it  should  retain  the  shape  of  the 
mold  and  be  tender  enough  to  quiver  without  breaking. 

When  making  currant  jelly  use  from  2  to  4  quarts  of 
fruit  for  1  utensil.  A  great  quantity  takes  too  long  to 
bring  to  the  right  heat  and  both  the  color  and  flavor  of 
the  jelly  will  be  impaired.  Wash  fruit  well,  remove  stems 
and  discard   all  that  is  imperfect.    With  watery  fruits, 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [299] 

such  as  grapes  and  currants,  use  no  water.  Cut  hard 
fruits  into  small  pieces  and  use  about  3  cups  of  water  to 
each  pound  of  fruit.  Cook  the  fruit  slowly  until  the  juice 
begins  to  flow,  then  crush  with  a  wooden  potato  masher. 

As  soon  as  the  fruit  is  tender  remove  from  the  fire  and 
pour  into  a  jelly  bag  to  drain.  A  pointed  three-cornered 
bag  is  best,  as  it  lets  the  juice  drain  from  the  corner  with 
the  pressure  of  the  bulk  of  the  fruit  on  the  small  end. 
Hang  the  bag  so  the  juice  may  drip.  When  nearly  all  the 
juice  has  been  strained  through  the  bag  may  be  squeezed. 
This  last  juice  which  has  been  squeezed  through  the  jelly 
bag  should  be  kept  by  itself  as  the  jelly  made  from  this 
juice  will  not  be  as  clear  as  that  which  has  been  allowed 
to  drip.  If  the  fruit  is  overcooked  it  will  produce  a  cloudy 
jelly. 

Measure  the  juice,  and  for  each  cup  allow  ^  cup  of 
sugar.  The  sugar  should  be  placed  on  shallow  pans  and 
warmed  slightly  in  the  oven.  Reheat  the  fruit  juice,  and 
when  it  reaches  the  boiling  point  add  the  sugar  imme- 
diately. Cook  rapidly  about  5  minutes,  removing  scum  as 
it  appears.  Long  cooking  will  darken  the  jelly  and  tends 
to  destroy  the  pectin,  which  will  cause  the  finished  prod- 
uct to  be  less  firm. 

To  determine  when  the  jelly  has  cooked  sufficiently, 
drop  a  teaspoon  of  the  syrup  on  a  cold  plate.  If  the  jelly 
stage  is  reached  the  syrup  will  thicken  slightly  in  a  few 
seconds.  Remove  from  the  fire  at  once  and  pour  into  hot 
sterilized  jelly  glasses  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Cool  as 
rapidly  as  possible  to  avoid  dust,  which  will  cause  mould. 
When  cold  pour  melted  paraffine  over  the  top,  cover, 
store  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place. 

Jelly  deteriorates  in  color,  texture  and  flavor  if  stored 
for  a  long  period.  When  jelly  is  soft  and  syrupy,  too  much 
sugar  has  been  used,  or  the  syrup  has  not  been  cooked 
long  enough  after  sugar  was  added.  If  tough  or  stringy, 
too  little  sugar  has  been  used  or  the  syrup  was  boiled 
after  the  jelly  stage  had  been  reached. 

The  cleaner  the  fruit— that  is,  of  stems  or  leaves,  the 
brighter  and  clearer  the  jelly  will  be.  Prepare  glasses  be- 
fore making  the  jelly.  After  washing  well,  place  glasses 
in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  set  over  the  fire  and  when  boiling 


[300]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

point  is  reached  allow  to  boil  15  minutes.  Just  before 
filling  glasses  with  the  boiling  syrup  set  them  upright  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water,  placing  a  thick  pad  of  cloth  in  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  This  method  of  handling  glasses  will 
prevent  breakage. 

Strawberries  need  a  heavier  syrup  for  canning  than 
other  fruits,  and  while  it  is  a  little  more  expensive  to 
make  jam  or  preserves  the  process  is  simpler  and  for  this 
particular  fruit  much  more  satisfactory.  The  berry  sea- 
son is  long  in  California  but  the  berries  are  at  their  best 
in  June  and  should  be  used  for  canning  or  preserving  then. 
The  old-fashioned  method  of  making  preserves  and  jams 
called  for  equal  weights  or  measurements  of  sugar  and 
fruit.  But  science  has  discovered  that  an  equally  satis- 
factory preserve  can  be  made  with  only  three-fourths  as 
much  sugar  as  fruit.  The  fruit  is  kept  whole  for  preserves 
and  is  broken  or  mashed  for  jams. 

Either  method  may  be  used.  Select  only  sound,  ripe 
fruit  for  preserving;  use  fine  granulated  sugar;  measure 
the  ingredients  accurately;  sterilize  containers  and  covers, 
and,  most  important  of  all,  preserve  a  small  quantity  at  a 
time.  Pick  over  fruit  carefully,  wash  and  measure.  Any 
imperfect  fruit  (bruised,  but  not  in  any  way  spoiled)  may 
be  crushed  and  strained  through  a  jelly  bag  and  used  for 
making  the  syrup.  Allow  one-half  as  much  water,  or 
juice  and  water,  as  you  have  berries.  Use  three-fourths 
cup  of  sugar  for  each  cup  of  berries. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  liquid  5  minutes  after  boiling  begins. 
Skim,  then  add  berries,  a  small  quantity  at  a  time  and 
cook  gently  under  the  boiling  point  until  fruit  can  be 
pierced  with  a  fork.  The  berries  will  be  somewhat  trans- 
parent. Lift  out  with  a  skimmer  or  perforated  spoon  and 
put  into  the  sterilized  jars  or  glasses;  add  more  fruit  and 
repeat  until  all  have  been  cooked.  If  much  juice  has 
drained  from  the  fruit  in  the  jars  pour  this  back  in  the 
kettle  and  boil  all  the  juice  down  about  5  minutes,  then 
pour  over  the  berries  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Do  not  cover 
or  seal  until  cold.  If  fruit  is  sealed  while  hot  the  juice 
will  be  less  thick. 

Less  perfect  fruit  may  be  used  for  jam  than  for  pre- 
serves.   Of  course,  care  should  be  taken  to  exclude  all 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [301] 

decayed  portions,  but  the  over-ripe  and  somewhat  bruised 
berries  need  not  be  discarded  when  preparing  jam.  The 
fruit  should  be  carefully  picked  over  and  well  washed. 

Combinations  of  fruits  make  palatable  jams  or  con- 
serves and  sometimes  chopped  nuts  are  added. 

The  labor  given  to  the  preparation  of  jams  or  preserves 
is  amply  repaid  in  the  appreciaton  of  the  family.  Jam  is 
certainly  a  treat  for  breakfast  with  hot  biscuits  or  rolls; 
for  dinner  as  a  relish  with  meat  or  for  supper  with  hot 
buttered  toast,  not  to  mention  the  "between-meal"  bread 
and  jam  for  the  children  after  school.  The  rules  govern- 
ing the  making  of  strawberry  preserves  and  jam  may  be 
applied  to  all  other  fruits. 

Currant  or  Loganberry  Jelly 

Pick  over  currants,  stem  and  wash,  discarding  all  the 
imperfect  fruit.  Place  in  a  preserving  kettle,  crushing 
slightly.  Cook  slowly  until  currants  are  tender.  Pour 
into  the  jelly  bag  and  strain.  Measure  juice  and  reheat. 
When  boiling  point  is  reached  add  heated  sugar,  three- 
fourths  cup  to  each  cup  of  juice  and  cook  rapidly  about  5 
minutes,  when  the  syrup  may  be  tested  by  dropping  a 
spoonful  on  a  cold  plate.  If  the  jelly  stage  is  reached,  re- 
move from  the  fire  at  once  and  pour  into  hot  jelly  glasses. 
Cool,  pour  melted  paraffine  over  the  top,  cover  and  store 
in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Grape  Jelly 

Select  under-ripe  fruit,  remove  the  grapes  from  the 
stems,  wash  and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle  over  a  slow  fire 
and  allow  to  simmer  until  the  fruit  is  tender;  then  pour 
into  a  bag  and  drain  oflF  all  the  juice.  For  each  cup  of  juice 
allow  ^  cups  of  sugar.  Heat  sugar  in  the  oven.  Bring 
grape  juice  to  the  boiling  point,  then  add  heated  sugar  and 
let  boil  until  a  little  of  the  syrup  will  jelly  when  dropped  on 
a  cold  plate.  Pour  into  hot  glasses  and  cool;  pour  melted 
paraffine  over  the  top,  cover  and  store  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Jelly 

Use  two-thirds  currants  to  one-third  raspberries  and 
proceed  as  for  currant  jelly. 


[302]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Apple  Jelly 

Wipe  apples,  remove  stems  and  blossoms  and  cut  in 
quarters.  Put  in  a  preserving  kettle,  cover  the  fruit  with 
cold  water  and  cook  slowly  until  the  fruit  is  soft.  Pour 
into  a  jelly  bag  and  drain.  Measure  juice  and  allow  to 
boil  about  20  minutes;  then  add  the  heated  sugar,  allow- 
ing three-fourths  cup  to  each  cup  of  juice;  then  boil  about 
5  minutes.  Skim  before  and  after  adding  sugar.  Test  and 
pour  into  hot  jelly  glasses.  Apples  may  be  combined  with 
fruits  which  lack  pectin  making  a  satisfactory  jelly. 

Apple  Mint  Jelly 

Follow  apple  jelly  formula,  adding  a  few  leaves  of  mint 
to  the  apples  while  cooking. 

Cranberry  Jelly 

One  quart  of  cranberries,  2  cups  of  hot  water.  Put  in 
a  kettle,  cover  and  cook  10  minutes.  Remove  cover,  add 
2  cups  sugar  and  cook  10  minutes  longer.  Each  berry 
should  be  whole  when  cold  and  embedded  in  jelly. 

Crabapple  Jelly 

Wash  and  stem  the  fruit,  and,  if  rather  large,  cut  in 
halves.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender. 
Pour  into  jelly  bag  and  drain.  Measure  juice  and  sugar, 
allowing  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  juice. 
Bring  juice  to  the  boiling  point,  add  sugar;  boil  until 
syrup  jellies.  Pour  into  hot  glasses;  cool,  and  then  pour 
melted  paraffine  over  the  top.    Cover  and  store. 

Plum  Jelly 

Select  under-ripe  plums;  wash  and  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  tender;  pour  into  jelly  bag  and 
drain.  Use  equal  measure  of  sugar  and  juice,  finishing  as 
for  other  jellies. 

Rhubarb  Jam 

Cut  off  ends  and  remove  strings  of  skin,  but  do  not 
completely  peel  the  fruit.  Cut  in  inch  slices,  measure  and 
cover  with  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar.    Let  stand  several 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [303] 

hours;  then  cook  about  30  minutes  after  the  boiling  point 
is  reached;  then  allow  to  simmer  gently  for  30  minutes 
more.  For  each  5  pounds  of  fruit  add  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  a  lemon  and  %  pound  of  blanched  sliced  almonds. 

Sunshine  Strawberries 

Put  into  the  preserving  kettle,  in  layers,  as  many 
pounds  of  sugar  as  hulled,  washed  and  drained  straw- 
berries. When  the  juice  is  drawn  out  a  little  set  over  the 
fire  to  cook  20  minutes  after  boiling  point  is  reached.  Turn 
the  berries  into  agate  pans  or  earthenware  plates,  cover 
with  panes  of  glass  and  set  in  the  sun.  Let  stand  2  days, 
stirring  2  or  3  times  each  day.  Store  without  reheating  in 
jars  or  glasses.  The  time  of  cooking  may  be  cut  down  to 
10  minutes  if  the  fruit  is  to  be  left  in  the  sun  a  day  or  two 
longer. 

Strawberry  Jam 

Wash  and  hull  berries;  allow  y^  pound  of  sugar  for  each 
pound  of  hulled  berries.  Place  berries  in  a  kettle  and 
mash.  Place  over  a  slow  fire  and  cook  slowly,  stirring  and 
mashing  fruit  until  it  is  thoroughly  cooked.  Then  add 
sugar  and  cook  very  slowly  until  mixture  is  thick.  Watch 
carefully  and  stir  frequently  to  avoid  burning.  An 
asbestos  mat  under  the  kettle  will  lessen  the  chance  of 
burning.  It  is  never  advisable  to  make  a  quantity  of  jam 
at  any  one  time.  Even  if  you  have  a  quantity  of  berries 
needing  immediate  attention  it  will  be  found  much  easier 
to  make  the  jam  in  small  amounts.  Several  small  kettles 
of  fruit  can  be  cooked  at  once  more  quickly  and  with 
much  better  results  than  cooked  in  one  large  utensil. 

Strawberry  Conserve 

Use  equal  quantities  each  of  pineapple,  strawberries 
and  rhubarb.  The  pineapple  is  peeled,  then  sliced,  then 
cut  in  small  cubes;  rhubarb  is  cut  in  small  pieces  without 
peeling.  Place  pineapple  and  rhubarb  over  a  very  slow 
fire  without  any  water  being  added  and  cook  slowly  until 
the  fruit  is  tender.  Add  strawberries,  cook  slowly,  stirring 
and  mashing  frequently.  When  berries  are  cooked  add 
the  sugar,   using  three-fourths  as  much   sugar  as  fruit. 


[304]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Cook  until  thick.  If  desired  a  half  cup  of  blanched  shred- 
ded almonds  may  be  added  for  each  quart  of  conserve. 
Pour  into  sterilized  glasses  or  jars  and  cool  before  sealing. 

Plum  Butter 

Use  plum  pulp  left  after  draining  juice  for  jelly.  Put 
through  a  coarse  strainer.  Use  one-half  as  much  sugar  as 
plum  pulp  and  simmer  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 

Fig  Jam 

Blanch  figs  and  remove  peel.  Cut  in  half.  Add  three- 
quarter  measure  of  sugar  for  each  measure  of  fruit.  Sim- 
mer gently  until  thick.  A  little  lemon  juice  can  be  added 
for  flavor. 

Gooseberry  Jam 

Stem  and  wash  gooseberries.  Mash  and  cook  very 
slowly  until  fruit  is  tender.  Add  equal  parts  sugar  and 
fruit  and  simmer  until  thick.  This  fruit  contains  so  much 
acid  that  the  additional  sugar  is  required. 

Peach  Marmalade 

Dip  fruit  in  hot  water  for  2  or  3  minutes;  dip  in  cold 
water,  remove  at  once  and  take  off  peel  and  remove  pit. 
Chop  or  slice  very  fine.  Add  three-quarters  as  much 
sugar  as  fruit  and  cook  very  slowly  until  thick.  Seal  in 
sterilized  jars. 

Bar  le  Due  Currants 

Use  only  large,  firm  fruit.  Weigh  and  use  an  equal 
weight  of  strained  honey.  Heat  honey,  add  fruit,  let 
simmer  very  slowly  about  5  minutes,  remove  the  fruit 
with  a  skimmer,  then  cook  down  the  syrup  until  thick. 
Pour  it  over  the  fruit  and  store  in  glasses  as  you  would 
jelly. 

Apple  Marmalade 

Wash  apples,  quarter,  but  retain  skin  and  cores.  Add 
a  very  little  boiling  water,  just  enough  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Cover  and  cook,  stirring  frequently,  until  soft. 
Press  through  a  colander  or  a  puree  strainer.    For  every 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [305] 

cup  of  pulp  add  three-quarters  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Let  cook  over  a  slow  fire 
until  somewhat  thickened.  Remember  that  marmalade 
thickens  considerably  upon  cooking. 

Raisin  and  Apple  Conserve 

4  cups  chopped  apples.  IH  cups  seeded  raisins. 

1  lemon  sliced  very  thin.  %  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

3  cups  sugar. 

Mix  apples,  raisins  and  lemon  and  heat  to  the  boiling 
point.  Add  sugar  and  cook  until  thick — about  yi  hour. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  add  chopped  nuts,  pour  into  hot 
sterilized  glasses  and  seal  as  for  jelly. 

Golden  Marmalade 

(Slightly  Bitter) 

1  grapefruit.  10  cups  cold  water. 

2  oranges.  10  cups  sugar. 
1  lemon. 

Wash  and  dry  fruit;  cut  into  quarters  without  peeling 
then  cut  quarters  in  very  thin  slices.  This  will  take  a 
sharp  knife.  Discard  all  seeds.  Cover  fruit  with  water 
and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  bring  slowly  to 
the  simmering  point  and  cook  until  fruit  is  tender,  at 
least  4  hours,  longer  if  necessary.  Let  stand  over  night 
again  then  reheat,  add  sugar  and  cook,  stirring  frequently 
until  when  a  spoonful  is  tested  on  a  cold  dish  it  forms  a 
jelly.  Pour  in  sterilized  glasses,  cool  and  cover  as  for 
jelly. 

Orange  Marmalade 

Wash  and  dry  fruit.  Cut  into  quarters  without  peeling, 
then  cut  each  quarter  into  the  thinnest  of  slices.  Allow  1 
lemon  to  6  oranges.  Discard  all  seeds  for  they  will  make 
the  marmalade  bitter.  For  each  cup  of  fruit  allow  3  cups 
of  cold  water.  Let  stand  over  night  then  heat  slowly  to 
the  simmering  point  and  cook  until  the  rind  is  tender, 
from  4  to  6  hours.  If  the  rind  is  not  tender  the  marmalade 
will  not  be  satisfactory.  Let  stand  over  night  a  second 
time,  reheat  and  when  boiling  add  the  sugar;  allow  equal 


[306]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

measures  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Cook  rapidly  until  the  mix- 
ture jellies  when  tested  on  a  cold  dish.  If  a  sugar  ther- 
mometer is  used  the  mixture  should  be  about  218  degrees  F. 

Pineapple  and  Orange  Marmalade 

1  pineapple.  1  lemon. 

6  oranges. 

Wash  and  dry  oranges  and  lemon;  cut  into  quarters 
without  removing  peel.  Cut  each  quarter  into  very  thin 
slices,  discarding  all  seeds.  Peel  and  remove  "eyes"  from 
the  pineapple.  Shred  fruit  from  the  core  with  a  silver 
fork.  Measure  the  fruit,  allowing  3  cups  of  cold  water 
for  each  cup  of  fruit.  Let  stand  over  night  then  bring 
slowly  to  the  simmering  point  and  cook  until  the  orange 
rind  is  tender,  4  to  6  hours.  Let  stand  over  night  again, 
then  measure.  Reheat  and  when  boiling  point  is  reached 
add  the  sugar,  allowing  an  equal  quantity.  Let  cook 
until  the  mixture  thickens  when  tested  on  a  cold  dish. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [307] 

Canning  Vegetables  by  the  Cold  Pack 
Method 

The  canning  of  vegetables  is  not  a  complicated  process. 
There  are  certain  essentials  for  successful  canning,  and 
if  these  are  carefully  observed  there  is  small  chance  for 
failure.  Perfect  sterilization  is  the  secret  of  success.  All 
ingredients  should  be  clean  and  fresh,  and  all  the  utensils 
used  should  be  sterilized;  that  is  free  from  all  mold  or 
germs  which  cause  or  promote  decay.  To  secure  immunity 
from  germs  it  is  necessary  to  thoroughly  scald  and  boil  all 
containers,  covers,  rubbers,  funnels,  dippers,  spoons  and 
kettles,  in  fact  everything  which  is  used  during  the  pro- 
cess. 

The  materials  to  be  canned  must  be  carefully  picked 
over  and  thoroughly  washed.  An  accumulation  of  dust, 
mold  or  decayed  portions  on  the  ingredients  to  be  canned 
even  if  slight,  will  affect  the  result.  These  essentials  are 
necessary,  no  matter  what  method  of  canning  is  used, 
whether  by  the  old-fashioned  open-kettle  method  or  by 
the  more  modern  cold-pack  process. 

There  are  three  kinds  of  plant  life  which  cause  foods 
to  spoil,  mold,  yeasts  and  bacteria,  and  these  organisms 
are  floating  everywhere  in  the  air.  To  preserve  food  it 
must  be  put  into  a  condition  which  is  free  from  all  organ- 
ism and  be  put  where  these  germs  can  not  reach  it.  Molds 
are  the  only  visible  plant  life  and  thrive  in  dampness  and 
darkness.  They  grow  more  frequently  where  acid  is 
present,  so  are  more  often  found  on  tomatoes  or  fruits. 
The  invisible  spores  causing  molds  are  in  the  air  every- 
where and  develop  upon  foods  which  are  left  exposed. 
Moist  heat  will  kill  molds,  so  the  method  of  sterilizing 
food  in  jars  or  cans  and  sealing  at  once  prevents  trouble 
with  mold.  Yeast  is  abundant  in  the  air  and  on  the  sur- 
face of  fruit  and  vegetables.  When  canned  food  ferments, 
yeast  is  present.  Moist  heat  at  the  simmering  point  will 
usually  kill  all  yeasts. 

Bacteria  are  not  so  easily  destroyed  as  molds  and 
yeasts  and  can  only  be  killed  by  subjecting  them  to  a 


[308]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

moist  heat  at  the  boiling  point  for  different  lengths  of 
time.  Experience  has  proved  that  when  the  vegetables 
are  sterilized  until  thoroughly  cooked  they  are  usually 
ready  to  seal  and  all  organisms  killed.  Very  little  loss  has 
followed  this  rule  where  the  vegetables  were  in  good  con- 
dition and  not  withered  or  old.  Only  young,  tender, 
fresh  vegetables  can  be  successfully  canned. 

For  the  cold  pack  method  of  canning  the  food  is  cooked 
in  the  jars  until  sterilized.  This  is  called  processing. 
When  processing  is  complete  the  jars  or  containers  must 
be  sealed  immediately  to  prevent  the  entrance  of  germs. 
Vegetables  require  a  much  longer  period  of  sterilization 
than  fruits.  The  cold-pack  method  requires  five  pro- 
cesses: Scalding  or  blanching,  cold  dipping,  packing  in 
jars,  sterilizing  and  sealing. 

Scalding  or  blanching  consists  of  plunging  the  fruit  or 
vegetables  into  boiling  water  for  a  short  time.  The  in- 
gredients should  be  placed  in  a  wire  basket  or  a  square  of 
cheese  cloth.  This  process  gives  the  food  a  more  thorough 
cleansing;  makes  peeling,  when  necessary,  an  easy  matter; 
improves  the  texture  and  produces  a  clearer  liquid.  Be- 
sides all  this  it  shrinks  either  fruits  or  vegetables,  making 
them  more  flexible  and  much  easier  to  pack  solid  in  the 
jars.  The  length  of  time  for  blanching  depends  upon  the 
age  of  the  food. 

Cold  dipping  is  placing  the  vegetable  for  an  instant 
only  into  cold  water.  This  makes  the  food  crisp  and 
further  aids  in  shrinkage;  also  preserves  color  and  flavor. 

The  food  is  then  packed  as  closely  as  possible  in  the 
sterilized  jars.  Cover  the  vegetables  (except  tomatoes) 
to  overflowing  with  boiling  water  and  allow  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  to  each  quart  jar  of  vegetables. 

Cleanse  rubbers  by  standing  for  a  minute  in  boiling 
water,  allowing  1  teaspoon  soda  for  each  quart  of  water. 
Adjust  rubber,  then  screw  top  partially  on  jar.  If  using 
a  glass  top  jar  with  wire  clamp  place  the  cover  on  and 
raise  both  clamps.  The  upper  one  will  hold  the  top  in 
place.  Place  the  jars  on  a  rack  in  a  boiler  or  deep  kettle. 
Have  water  about  the  temperature  of  the  jars  and  fill 
boiler  to  about  2  inches  of  the  tops  of  the  jars.  Cover 
the  boiler  to  keep  in  the  steam  and  count  the  time  for 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [309] 

processing  from  the  time  the  water  begins  to  boil  and 
keep  constantly  at  the  boiling  point  the  required  length 
of  time. 

At  the  end  of  this  time  lift  jars  from  the  water,  tighten 
the  covers  securely  at  once.  Return  to  the  hot  water,  this 
time  completely  submerging  them  for  10  minutes.  Lift 
from  the  water,  tighten  covers  again  and  cool,  avoiding  a 
draft  which  might  cause  the  jars  to  crack.  Inverting  the 
jars  will  be  a  final  test  as  to  whether  there  is  a  possible 
leak. 

Store  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place.  Tomatoes,  peas,  lima 
beans  and  corn  are  greatly  improved  by  adding  a  teaspoon 
of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  vegetables,  adding  the  sugar  and 
salt  at  the  same  time. 

Rubber  rings  should  be  new  each  season.  To  open  a 
jar  of  food  easily,  immerse  the  cover  in  warm  water  and 
gradually  add  boiling  water,  letting  jars  stand  a  few  min- 
utes; then  remove  and  cover  can  easily  be  removed. 

In  the  following  recipes  no  definite  period  is  given  for 
sterilizing  the  vegetables.  When  cooked  through,  or 
suitable  for  serving,  they  are  ready  to  seal,  or  the  food 
may  be  tested  to  see  if  it  is  cooked.  Be  sure  this  jar  is 
filled  to  overflowing  with  boiling  water  before  resealing. 
The  time  for  processing  depends  upon  the  age  of  the 
product,  and  time  tables  usually  apply  to  fresh,  tender 
products. 

The  following  table  may  be  used  as  a  guide: 

Vegetables  Blanching  Cooking 

Asparagus 5  to  10  min 2  hours 

Peas 8  minutes 3  hours 

String  Beans 8  minutes 2  hours 

Lima  Beans 5  to  10  min 3  hours 

Beets 5  to  10  min 2  hours 

Corn 5  to  10  min 4  hours 

Peppers 5  to  10  min 2  hours 

Tomatoes 1^  minutes 20  min. 

String  Beans 

Remove  the  stems  and  strings  from  tender  fresh  beans; 
cut  in  two  if  desired.    Blanch  from  5  to  8  minutes,  or  until 


[310]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

the  pod  will  bend  without  breaking;  then  plunge  in  cold 
water  for  an  instant.  Drain,  pack  quickly  into  a  jar,  add 
salt  and  cover  to  overflowing  with  boiling  water;  adjust 
rubbers  and  covers.  Place  jars  on  racks  in  boiler,  cover 
to  within  one  inch  of  top  with  warhi  water;  cover  boiler, 
and  when  water  reaches  the  boiling  point  sterilize  about 
\y2  hours,  keeping  water  continuously  boiling.  This 
recipe  also  applies  to  wax  beans  and  green  lima  beans. 
When  cooked  remove  and  adjust  covers. 

Asparagus 

Asparagus  for  canning  must  be  fresh.  Wash,  cut  the 
proper  length  for  jars,  scrape  off  tough  outer  skin  and  tie 
in  bundles.  Blanch  by  immersing  the  lower  ends  in  boil- 
ing water  for  3  minutes;  then  lower  all  and  blanch  1  to  2 
minutes  longer.  Plunge  into  cold  water,  then  pack  in 
jars.  Add  salt,  fill  to  overflowing  with  boiling  water; 
place  on  rack  in  boiler  and  cover  to  1  inch  of  top  with 
warm  water.  Cover  boiler,  and  when  water  boils  cook 
about  \y2  hours,  keeping  water  constantly  boiling.  Re- 
move from  boiler  and  adjust  covers. 

Peas 

Peas  should  be  canned  as  soon  as  shelled.  Blanch  from 
1  to  4  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Dip  in  cold  water  for  an 
instant,  adding  1  teaspoon  of  salt  to  each  quart  of  water. 
Drain  and  pack  to  }i  inch  of  top  of  jar,  add  1  teaspoon 
each  of  sugar  and  salt  for  each  pint  jar,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  adjust  rubbers  and  covers.  Place  on  rack  in 
boiler,  cover  with  warm  water  to  within  1  inch  of  top. 
Cover  boiler,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  cook  about  Ij^ 
hours  or  until  tender.  Remove  from  boiler  and  adjust 
covers. 

Tomatoes 

Select  firm  tomatoes  of  uniform  size.  Blanch  for  1  min- 
ute, dip  into  cold  water  and  remove  skins  quickly  and 
pack  closely  into  jars.  Add  salt,  and  fill  jars  with  hot 
strained  tomatoes.  Adjust  rubbers  and  covers,  place  in 
boiler,  cover  with  warm  water  to  within  1  inch  of  the  top 
of  jars.    Cover  boiler  and  when  boiling  point  is  reached 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [311] 

cook  about  15  minutes.    Remove  from  boiler  and  adjust 
covers. 

Lima  Beans 

Lima  beans  should  be  canned  as  soon  as  shelled.  Blanch 
from  1  to  4  minutes,  depending  on  the  age  of  the  beans. 
Dip  in  cold  water  for  an  instant,  adding  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  to  each  quart  of  cold  water.  Drain  and  pack  beans 
to  within  ]/2  inch  of  the  top  of  jar;  add  salt,  cover  to  over- 
flowing with  boiling  water.  Adjust  rubbers  and  covers; 
place  in  boiler;  cover  to  within  an  inch  of  top  of  jars  with 
warm  water;  cover  boiler  and  when  boiling  point  is 
reached  cook  about  an  hour  or  until  tender.  One  jar  may 
be  tested,  then  put  back  and  sterilized  before  sealing. 
When  cooked,  remove  and  adjust  covers. 


[312]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

Canning  Fruit 

Fruit  for  canning  should  be  ripe  and  fresh  for  the  best 
results.   Over-ripe  fruit  is  difficult  to  sterilize. 

By  the  cold  pack  method  the  fruit  is  placed  in  the  jar 
and  all  cooking  or  sterilization  is  done  in  the  jar.  In  this 
way  all  bacteria  is  destroyed  and  as  the  jar  is  not  opened 
again  until  the  fruit  is  required  for  use,  no  bacteria  can 
enter,  providing  the  jars  and  covers  are  perfect,  and  the 
jar  completely  sealed.  If  air  can  enter  the  jar  the  food 
will  mold  and  spoil. 

All  fruits  except  berries  are  blanched  for  the  cold-pack 
method  of  canning.  By  blanching  is  meant  immersing 
fruit  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  for  a  certain  period,  the  length 
of  time  depending  upon  the  type  of  fruit. 

Blanching  gives  a  thorough  cleansing,  loosens  the  skin, 
improves  the  tecture  and  shrinks  the  product.  After 
blanching  the  fruit  is  immediately  dipped  in  cold  water. 
This  hardens  the  pulp  under  the  skin,  making  it  easy  to 
remove  the  skin,  leaves  the  fruit  firm  and  sets  the  color. 
It  also  enables  handling  of  the  fruit  at  once  so  that  it 
may  easily  be  packed  into  jars.  Do  not  allow  the  fruit 
to  remain  in  the  cold  water;  dip  it  in  and  then  remove  at 
once.  Peel  and  pack  into  jars  immediately.  It  is  necessary 
to  handle  the  fruit  rapidly  at  this  stage.  Many  failures 
in  canning  can  be  traced  to  allowing  the  fruit  to  stand 
after  blanching  instead  of  packing  in  jars  at  once.  It  can 
easily  be  understood  why  it  is  both  easier  and  better  in 
every  way  to  blanch  only  a  small  quantity  of  fruit  at  a 
time.  It  is  necessary  to  exercise  judgment  as  to  the  length 
of  time  required  for  blanching,  as  the  condition  of  the 
fruit  will  govern  that  somewhat. 

The  time  tables  which  will  follow  this  article  can  be 
followed  exactly  if  the  fruit  is  fresh  and  in  perfect  condi- 
tion. The  time  for  blanching  fruits  is  much  easier  to 
determine  than  that  for  vegetables. 

After  packing  the  fruit  in  the  jar,  fill  to  one-fourth  inch 
of  the  top  with  hot  syrup,  adjust  the  rubbers  and  place 
the  covers  in  position.  Do  not  seal  completely.  Leave 
the  clamp  up,  if  glass  top  jars  are  used;  for  screw-top  jars 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [313] 

do  not  screw  down  entirely.  The  tops  of  the  jars  should 
be  tight  enough  to  fit  down  so  that  no  water  can  seep 
into  the  jar,  but  not  be  so  tight  that  they  can  be  forced 
off  by  the  expanding  process. 

The  density  of  the  syrup  may  be  varied  according  to  the 
variety  of  fruit  used,  but  a  general  rule  which  may  be 
used  for  all  fruit  canning  is:  Three  parts  sugar  to  two 
parts  water;  boil  down  to  a  thin  syrup;  very  sour  fruits 
may  need  a  heavier  syrup.  Use  any  kettle  in  which  a 
rack  may  be  placed  so  that  the  jars  will  be  at  least  ^2 
inch  above  the  bottom,  and  deep  enough  for  the  water 
to  come  1  inch  above  the  tops  of  the  jars.  The  water 
must  come  above  the  jars  in  order  to  prevent  the  liquid 
inside  the  jars  boiling  out  in  the  form  of  steam.  The 
water  from  the  boiler  will  not  get  into  the  jars,  as  all 
force  is  outward,  not  inward.  Jars  not  completely  filled 
with  fruit  will  keep  perfectly  because  the  remaining  air 
in  the  jar  will  be  completely  sterilized  by  the  processing 
or  cooking. 

Do  not  count  the  length  of  time  for  cooking  until  the 
water  is  actually  boiling.  It  is  the  boiling  temperature 
that  does  the  sterilizing. 

The  quality  of  jar  used  plays  an  important  part  in 
successful  results  of  canning.  This  does  not  mean  the 
type  of  jar.  Select  any  style  you  fancy,  but  be  sure  there 
are  no  flaws.  The  jars,  and  covers  also,  should  be  per- 
fectly smooth  where  the  two  come  together;  there  should 
be  no  cracks,  rough  edges  or  chipped  spots. 

Jar  covers  must  fit  so  tight  that  there  is  no  possible 
chance  of  a  leak  after  the  jar  is  sealed.  Thorough  steri- 
lization is  a  necessity  both  for  jars  and  covers.  Wash 
jars  in  warm  soapy  water;  rinse  well,  then  put  into  a  pan 
of  cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
boil  not  less  than  5  minutes.  Allow  jars  to  stand  in  the 
boiling  water  until  ready  to  fill.  Covers  my  be  dropped 
into  boiling  water  a  few  minutes  before  required.  Another 
very  important  point  is  to  have  new  rubbers  each  time  a 
jar  is  used.    It  is  false  economy  to  use  old  rubbers. 

In  order  to  withstand  the  boiling  during  the  period  of 
cooking  the  fruit  for  the  cold-pack  method,  rubbers  must 
be  firm  and  elastic.    Sterilize  rubbers  by  covering  with 


[314]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

boiling  water,  then  dry  in  a  clean  cloth  and  use  at  once. 
The  essential  point  is  to  kill  all  bacteria  by  heat,  so  every- 
thing that  comes  in  contact  with  food  to  be  canned  must 
be  sterilized  by  boiling. 

When  the  fruit  has  cooked  the  required  time  take  jars 
from  the  boiler  and  seal  tightly  at  once.  Invert  jars  and 
let  stand  until  cool.  If  there  should  be  a  flaw  in  a  jar  or 
cover  it  will  be  discovered  if  the  jar  is  allowed  to  cool 
inverted.  Set  the  jars  in  a  cool  place,  but  be  careful  not 
to  let  a  draft  of  cold  air  strike  them  while  cooling  or  they 
might  crack.  Also  keep  plenty  of  space  between  jars  so 
that  there  will  be  a  free  circulation  of  air.  Store  fruit  in  a 
cool,  dry,  dark  place. 

Use  only  perfect  fruit  for  canning.  The  bruised,  over- 
ripe fruit  may  be  used  for  jam.  Of  course,  this  does  not 
mean  fruit  that  is  in  any  way  decayed. 

The  cold-pack  method  described  is  by  far  the  simplest 
and  most  satisfactory  way  to  can  food.    The  following 
tables,  which  are  universally  used,  will  be  helpful  to  the 
home  canner: 
Fruits  Blanching  Cooking 

Apricots 1  to  2  minutes 16  min. 

Peaches 2  minutes 16  min. 

Pears lyi  minutes 20  min. 

Figs 3  minutes 16  min. 

All  Berries No  blanching 20  min. 

Grapes No  blanching 16  min. 

Cherries No  blanching 16  min. 

Apples \y2  minutes 20  min. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [315] 

PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 

Pickles  and  relishes  are  not  classed  as  strictly  hygienic 
foods,  but  as  the  home-made  products  are  undoubtedly 
pure,  there  really  seems  no  reason  why  these  foods  should 
not  be  used  in  moderation.  To  make  pickles  quite  harm- 
less as  well  as  palatable,  care  must  be  taken  to  have  the 
vinegar  absolutely  pure.  Either  malt  or  a  white  wine  vine- 
gar may  be  used.  Brine  in  which  articles  for  pickles  are  to 
be  stored  should  be  strong  enough  to  hold  up  an  egg.  A 
pint  or  2  cups  of  salt  to  1  gallon  of  water  will  usually  be 
found  the  right  proportion. 

Vegetables  for  pickling  are  only  to  remain  over  night 
in  a  brine;  1  cup  of  salt  to  1  gallon  of  water  is  sufficient. 
Articles  to  be  pickled  lose  some  of  their  crispness  if  scalded, 
but  they  will  absorb  the  vinegar  more  easily. 

Pickles  stored  in  stoneware  jars  will  keep  for  months  if 
the  vinegar  and  spices  are  of  good  quality;  or  they  may  be 
packed  in  fruit  jars.  Spices  and  horseradish  are  an  aid  in 
keeping  pickles  in  good  condition.  And  green  or  red  pep- 
pers will  give  a  better  flavor  than  peppercorns. 

When  removing  pickles  from  the  jar  use  a  wooden, 
porcelain  or  agate  spoon  or  ladle,  as  the  vinegar  attacks 
metal,  causing  dangerous  compounds. 

A  spiced  vinegar  is  excellent  for  any  kind  of  pickles.  It 
may  be  prepared  by  boiling  1  quart  of  vinegar  with  1 
ounce  each  of  cloves,  allspice,  ginger,  mace,  bay  leaves 
and  chopped  red  pepper.    Cool  before  using. 

Vinegar  should  always  be  just  boiled  up,  either  with  or 
without  the  spices,  then  allowed  to  cool  before  using. 
Raw  vinegar  never  gives  the  same  mellow  flavor  as  that 
obtained  when  the  vinegar  is  scalded. 

Sugar  has  a  tendency  to  harden  fruits  and  vegetables, 
and  too  heavy  a  syrup  may  toughen  and  spoil  fruit  made 
into  sweet  pickles.  Some  varieties  of  peaches  and  all 
melons  should  be  cooked  tender  in  water  before  the  pick- 
ling syrup  is  added  to  them. 

Pickled  Cantaloupe  or  Watermelon 
Peel  the  fruit,  cut  into  strips,  cover  with  cold  water, 


[316]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

adding  1  tablespoon  salt  to  each  2  quarts  of  water  and 
boil  gently  until  very  tender,  then  drain  well  and  pack  in 
sterilized  jars. 

Boil  vinegar  enough  to  cover  the  fruit,  adding  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar  for  each  quart  of  vinegar  and  2  table- 
spoons of  whole  mixed  spices  tied  in  a  muslin  bag.  Let 
the  spices  and  vinegar  boil  for  10  minutes,  then  pour  over 
the  fruit  in  the  jars  until  overflowing.  Seal  tightly  and 
store  in  a  cool  place. 

Sweet  Pickled  Pears 

Cut  6  or  8  medium-sized  pears  in  halves,  remove  core 
and  press  1  or  2  cloves  into  each  half-pear.  Put  yi  cup  of 
vinegar,  3  inch  piece  of  cinnamon  bark,  broken  in  small 
pieces,  and  2  cups  of  brown  sugar  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
lire. 

When  boiling  point  is  reached,  add  several  pieces  of  the 
pears  and  cook  until  tender,  but  not  broken.  Place  in  a 
sterilized  jar  and  when  all  are  cooked  fill  jar  to  overflowing 
with  the  syrup,  adjust  rubber  and  covers,  and  set  aside  in 
a  cool  place.  The  amount  given  above  is  for  a  1  quart  jar. 
This  recipe  also  applies  to  peaches,  except  that  for  this 
fruit  the  peel  should  be  removed. 

Pickled  String  Beans 

Remove  ends  and  strings  from  beans,  but  keep  them 
full  length.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  about  15 
minutes;  drain,  rinse  in  cold  water  and  drain  again. 

Pour  over  them  scalding  hot  vinegar  enough  to  cover. 
These  beans  will  be  ready  to  serve  in  24  hours. 

Sour  Cucumber  Pickles 

Select  small  cucumbers,  wash,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
cover  with  cold  water.  Use  1  cup  of  salt  for  each  gallon 
of  water. 

Allow  to  stand  over-night  or  about  12  to  14  hours,  then 
rinse  and  pack  in  fruit  jars  or  crocks.  Add  green  or  red 
peppers,  also  whole  spices.  Cover  with  scalding  vinegar. 
If  using  fruit  jars,  sterilize  and  seal  carefully.  If  stored 
in  an  earthenware  crock,  place  a  plate  with  a  weight  on 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [317] 

top  to  keep  the  pickles  in  the  vinegar,  then  cover  the  jar. 
These  pickles  should  keep  almost  indefinitely. 

Ginger  root,  horseradish  and  mustard  seeds  may  be 
added  to  the  hot  vinegar. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles 

Prepare  as  for  sour  pickles,  adding  sugar  to  taste  to  the 
hot  vinegar. 

Piccalilli 

4  cups  green  tomatoes.  %  cup  salt. 

2  cups  red  tomatoes.  4  cups  vinegar. 

3^2  small  cabbage.  4  cups  brown  sugar. 

2  onions.  1  teaspoon  mustard. 
1  green  pepper.  1  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  small  red  pepper.  1  teaspoon  celery  seed. 

3  cucumbers.  1  teaspoon  mustard  seed. 

Chop  the  vegetables,  cover  with  salt,  and  allow  to 
stand  over  night.  Drain  and  press  in  a  cloth  to  remove 
all  liquid;  add  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  and  let  simmer 
until  clear.  This  will  take  about  an  hour.  Store  in  hot 
sterilized  jars.  Canned  tomatoes  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  green  ones. 

Chilli  Sauce 

12  ripe  tomatoes.  3  tablespoons  sugar. 

J^  teaspoon  pepper.  2  tablespoons  salt. 

3  onions.  2  cups  vinegar. 

3  green  peppers.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Peel  tomatoes  and  onions  and  chop  all  vegetables 
separately  very  fine.  Combine  ingredients  and  cook 
slowly  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  Two  quarts  of  canned 
tomatoes  may  replace  the  raw  ones.  If  liked  highly  sea- 
soned, little  red  chili  peppers  may  be  added. 

Tomato  Catsup 

4  cups  cooked  tomatoes.  ^i  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  tablespoon  salt.  3^  teaspoon     each     cinnamon, 

1  onion  grated.  cloves  and  nutmeg. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  %  cup  vinegar. 

Combine  and  cook  slowly  until  thick.  Put  through  a 
sieve,  reheat  and  bottle.  If  liked  a  clove  of  garlic  may  be 
added  to  the  catsup. 


[318]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Dill  Pickles 

Fill  a  jar  with  small  cucumbers.  Between  them  place 
a  small  piece  of  dill.    For  each  jar  add  1  tablespoon  salt. 

Pour  cold  water  over  the  pickles,  place  a  piece  of  dill 
on  top  and  seal  tightly  as  for  canned  fruit.  Place  in  a 
warm  place  or  in  the  sun  until  the  liquid  becomes  cloudy. 
Then  it  will  become  clear  again  and  by  that  time  the 
pickles  are  ready  for  use. 

Mustard  Pickles 

4  cups  small  cucumbers.  6  large  green  peppers. 

4  cups  small  onions.  1  head  cauliflower. 

1  green  tomato.  3  stalks  celery. 

Cut  in  suitable  pieces  and  soak  in  weak  salt  water  24 
hours.  Then  cook  in  same  water  until  tender  and  drain. 
Make  a  dressing  of 

6  level  tablespoons  ground  1  cup  flour, 

mustard.  2  quarts  vinegar. 

13^  cups  sugar. 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  vinegar  slowly.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick.  Pour  over  pickles  and  seal  in 
jars. 

Apple  Chutney 

Pare,  core  and  cut  in  quarters  about  a  dozen  very  sour 
apples.  Peel  and  slice  3  medium-sized  onions;  chop  fine 
or  put  through  the  food  chopper  1  pound  of  seeded  rais- 
ins. Mix  these  ingredients  and  add  3  cups  of  cider  vine- 
gar in  which  y^  cup  of  salt  and  4  cups  of  sugar  have  been 
dissolved.  In  a  cheese  cloth  bag  tie  1  tablespoon  each  of 
mustard  seed,  whole  cloves  and  small  dried  chili  peppers. 
Cook  all  together  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  apple  and 
onions  are  tender  and  the  chutney  is  a  rich  brown  color. 
Seal  in  sterilized  bottles. 

Spiced  Apples 

Peel,  core  and  quarter  4  cooking  apples;  prepare  a 
syrup  of  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water  and  ij^  cups  of 
vinegar;  add  to  this  whole  spices,  tied  in  a  cheese  cloth; 
cloves  and  cinnamon  will  be  suflicient.  Cook  until  sugar 
is  dissolved,  add  apples  and  cook  until  transparent,  but 
not  broken.  Chill  thoroughly  before  serving.  These  will 
take  the  place  of  spiced  peaches.    To  be  served  as  a  relish. 


CHAPTER  FOURTEEN 

-       Ifi 

HOLIDAY  DINNERS 

MIDNIGHT  SUPPERS 

CHAFING  DISH  NOVELTIES 

CAMP  COOKERY 

PICINIC  LUNCH 

SANDWICHES 

CANDIES 


320]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 


Holiday  Dinners 


HEN  arranging  the  holiday  menu,  plan  so  that  it 
will  be  possible  to  prepare  many  of  the  dishes  a 
day  or  two  in  advance.  Christmas  and  Thanks- 
giving are  family  gathering  days.  Try  to  man- 
age so  that  the  family  and  guests  will  not  feel  that  the 
dinner  has  been  too  great  an  effort  for  the  person  who 
prepared  the  menu. 

There  are  so  many  things  which  may  be  prepared  some 
time  in  advance.  The  mince  meat  and  plum  pudding  are 
improved  with  age.  Pumpkin  may  be  steamed  and  sealed, 
while  hot,  in  jars  as  any  canned  fruit,  or  the  canned 
pumpkin  may  be  purchased  ready  for  use.  The  mayon- 
naise can  be  prepared  and  set  aside  in  a  covered  jar. 
Salted  nuts  and  those  needed  for  salad  can  also  be  pre- 
pared. The  day  before  Christmas  clean  and  prepare  the 
turkey  or  chicken,  but  do  not  wash  until  just  before  cook- 
ing or  the  flavor  will  be  impaired.  The  dressing  can  be 
made  and  set  aside  in  a  covered  bowl.  It  is  a  very  easy 
task  to  wash  the  bird  and  add  stuffing  just  before  putting 
in  the  oven.  Simmer  the  liver,  heart  and  gizzard  in 
enough  water  to  cover,  until  tender.  Drain,  chop  very 
fine,  add  the  liquid  they  were  cooked  in  and  set  aside  for 
the  gravy. 

Pastry  may  be  made  for  pies,  and  if  the  pies  are  to  be 
reheated  they  may  be  completed  a  day  in  advance. 

If  vegetables  are  to  be  freshly  cooked,  wash  them,  but 
do  not  remove  peel  or  let  them  stand  very  long  in  cold 
water  before  cooking  as  much  of  the  valuable  mineral 
salts  would  be  lost.  If  the  vegetables  are  to  be  reheated 
in  a  sauce  or  in  fritters,  they  may  be  cooked  and  set  aside 
until  needed. 

Other  meats  may  easily  be  substituted  for  those  called 
for  in  the  following  menus.  Chicken  may  be  roasted  in- 
stead of  turkey;  a  chicken  pie  or  fricassee  will  be  found 
appetizing.  A  crown  roast  of  pork  or  lamb  is  very  de- 
licious as  well  as  attractive;  roast  leg  of  lamb  boned  and 
stuffed;  roast  goose  or  duck.  Turkey  is  sometimes  almost 
prohibitive  in  price,  which  makes  it  necessary  for  many 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [321] 

families  to  forego  the  traditional  Christmas  and  Thanks- 
giving dinner. 

When  planning  the  holiday  dinner,  do  not  forget  that 
the  turkey  is  the  piece  de  resistance  and  do  not  have  too 
many  courses  to  precede  the  main  one  or  the  appetite 
will  be  satisfied  before  the  turkey  appears. 


Holiday  Menus 

1 

California  Oyster  Cocktail 

Salted  Almonds  Olives  Celery 

Sweetbread  Patties 

Roast  Turkey,  Oyster  Dressing 

Giblet  Sauce  Cranberry  Frappe 

Succotash  Baked  Squash 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Waldorf  Salad 

Plum  Pudding,  Hard  Sauce 

Cheese  Crackers 

Coffee 


2 

Fruit  Cocktail 

Ripe  Olives  Stuffed  Celery 

Creamed  Sweetbreads  in  Ramekins 

Roast  Turkey,  Chestnut  Dressing 

Giblet  Sauce  Cranberry  Jelly 

Caramel  Sweet  Potatoes 

Stuffed  Onions  Molded  Spinach 

Pumpkin  Pie  with  Whipped  Cream 
Raisins  Nuts  Mints 

Coffee 


[322]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

3 

Fruit  Cocktail 

Consomme 

Creamed  Shrimp  in  Timbale  Cases 

Roast  Chicken,  Celery  Dressing 

Giblet  Sauce 

Spiced  Apples  Currant  Jelly 

Mashed  Potatoes  Onions,  au  Gratin 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Chocolate  Pudding 

Mints  Assorted  Nuts 

Coffee 


4 

Crabflake  Cocktail 
Salted  Almonds  Chow  Chow 

Baked  Ham  Brown  Sauce 

Glaced  Potatoes  Corn  Fritters 

Spinach  Souffle  Creamed  Celery 

Tomato  Jelly  Salad 

Mock  Biscuit  Tortoni 

Lady  Fingers 

Mints  Coffee  Raisins 


5 

Grape  Fruit  Cocktail 

Green  Olives  Salted  Almonds 

Chicken  Pie  en  Casserole 

Currant  Jelly 

Mashed  Potatoes  Onions  in  Cream 

Baked  Cream  Squash  Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Thanksgiving  Pudding 
Mints  Coffee  Raisins 


6 

Shrimp  Cocktail  Louis 
Curled  Celery  Spiced  Prunes  Salted  Nuts 

Roast  Leg  of  Pork  Glazed  Apples 

Caramel  Sweet  Potatoes  Cauliflower  au  Gratin 

Combination  Fruit  Salad  French  Dressing 

Mince  and  Pumpkin  Pie 

Coffee  Mints 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [323] 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  THE  MIDNIGHT  SUPPER;  A 

SERIES  OF  RECIPES  FOR  AFTER 

THEATER  OR  PARTY 

The  late  supper  is  usually  a  meal  of  luxury,  not  at  all 
a  necessity;  in  fact,  we  would  be  much  better  off  if  we  did 
not  indulge  in  rich  food  before  retiring.  But  refreshments 
offer  a  pleasing  way  to  extend  hospitality  and  the  hostess 
usually  takes  pride  in  her  ability  to  exhibit  her  skill  in 
providing  a  tempting  supper. 

This  additional  meal  must  not  be  too  heavy,  not  have 
too  great  a  variety  of  dishes;  it  should  be  carefully  planned, 
well  cooked  and  daintily  served.  If  one  is  the  proud 
possessor  of  a  chafing  dish  the  main  course  may  be  pre- 
pared at  the  table.  As  this  type  of  cookery  takes  place 
before  an  audience,  it  requires  planning;  all  necessary 
preparatory  cooking  should  be  done  in  advance;  the  in- 
gredients all  assembled  and  measured  before  being  placed 
on  the  table.  If  this  is  all  arranged  ahead  of  time,  the 
actual  cooking  is  not  difficult.  However,  if  preferred,  the 
food  may  be  cooked  just  before  the  guests  are  called  to 
the  table  and  then  served  from  the  chafing  dish. 

Creamed  fish  or  chicken  dishes  are  easily  made  and 
suitable  for  these  late  suppers.  They  are  rather  sub- 
stantial and  should  be  followed  by  a  very  light  sweet 
course,  preferably  fruit  in  some  form. 

A  considerable  part  of  chafing  dish  cookery  depends 
upon  the  preparation  of  sauces  and  it  is  essential  that  one 
first  master  the  art  of  making  savory  sauces  before  at- 
tempting any  great  variety  of  chafing  dish  cookery.  For 
those  persons  who  do  not  possess  a  chafing  dish  the  food 
may  be  cooked  on  the  stove  or  over  hot  water. 

If  numbers  are  too  numerous  for  a  hot  course,  sand- 
wiches are  always  acceptable  and  may  be  of  many  varie- 
ties. Sandwiches  should  be  made  of  bread  not  too  fresh 
to  cut  well;  nor  so  old  that  it  is  dry;  they  should  be  soft 
but  not  moist.  If  meat  is  used  it  is  much  better  chopped 
fine  and  mixed  to  a  paste  with  cream,  softened  butter  or 
very  thick  mayonnaise.  If  this  is  not  desired  than  cut  the 
meat  in  very  thin  slices,  and  cut  each  slice  in  several 


[324]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

pieces,  place  on  buttered  bread  and  season  before  cover- 
ing with  the  second  slice  of  bread.  It  is  never  desirable 
to  use  large  slices  of  meat,  even  if  cut  very  thin,  because 
it  is  difficult  to  eat  gracefully.  Always  cream  the  butter 
well  to  spread  on  sandwiches.  It  will  then  spread  easily 
and  the  merest  suggestion  of  butter  is  all  that  is  necessary. 

Cheese  dishes  are  usually  relished  by  the  majority  of 
persons  and  there  are  numerous  ways  in  which  cheese  can 
be  used  to  supply  the  main  ingredient.  If  cheese  is  com- 
bined with  other  foods,  such  as  in  sauces,  and  cooked  only 
long  enough  to  melt,  it  will  not  be  found  harder  to  digest 
than  many  other  popular  dishes. 

However,  as  cheese  is  a  highly  concentrated  food,  use 
only  enough  for  flavor,  and  the  best  results  are  obtained 
by  grating. 

Most  of  the  hot  dishes  used  for  late  suppers  are  also 
suitable  for  luncheon  dishes. 

Salad  is  always  popular.  Its  presence  at  any  meal  is 
welcome  and  for  the  maidless  household  it  offsets  a  very 
easy  course  for  the  midnight  supper.  Accompanied  by 
rolls  (reheated)  or  freshly  baked  biscuits,  almost  any 
variety  of  salad  will  be  relished.  The  essentials  are  to  be 
able  to  make  a  well-seasoned  salad  dressing  and  to  serve 
the  salad  cold. 

If  meat  or  poultry  is  to  be  used  for  the  salad,  it  should 
be  cut  into  dice  (not  chopped)  and  mixed  with  a  well- 
seasoned  French  dressing  for  several  hours  before  being 
combined  with  the  remaining  salad  ingredients.  Use  only 
enough  of  the  dressing  to  season  the  meat.  Fish  should 
be  flaked  and  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

All  combinations  of  fruit  are  palatable  in  a  salad. 
Regardless  of  what  type  of  dressing  is  to  be  used,  a  little 
lemon  juice  should  always  be  added  to  a  fruit  salad.  Mix 
fruits  lightly  with  a  silver  fork  and  chill  thoroughly  be- 
fore serving. 

From  a  hygienic  standpoint  the  late  supper  is  hardly 
to  be  encouraged;  however,  this  will  have  to  be  deter- 
mined by  the  individual.  And  in  order  to  overcome  the 
possibility  of  an  unpleasant  aftermath  keep  this  extra 
meal  as  simple  as  possible.  If  the  main  course  is  to  be 
rich  in  sauces  or  cheese,  do  not  plan  an  elaborate  dessert, 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [325] 

but  keep  to  fruits  and  attractive  light  but  not  nutritious 
desserts.  Fruit  cocktails  are  always  refreshing  and  may 
be  used  as  dessert  for  the  late  supper.  For  that  matter 
the  informal  supper  does  not  demand  a  sweet  course.  Or 
the  sweet  course,  if  rich  with  cream  in  any  form,  and 
served  with  little  cakes  and  a  beverage,  may  constitute 
the  entire  supper.  It  is  not  the  variety  that  makes  a  de- 
lightful supper  party,  but  the  daintiness  of  table  and  ser- 
vice, the  excellence  of  the  food  that  is  offered  and  the 
general  informality  of  the  occasion.  Above  all,  if  one  is 
both  hostess  and  maid,  plan  dishes  that  can  be  prepared 
in  advance.  Keep  everything  simple,  for  nothing  so  mars 
the  enjoyment  of  guests  than  to  be  conscious  of  a  very 
busy  hostess. 


Cream  Cheese  and  Pineapple  Salad 

Arrange  slices  of  pineapple  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 
Press  cottage  or  cream  cheese  through  a  potato  ricer. 
Place  on  top  of  pineapple  and  place  a  spoonful  of  thick 
mayonnaise  on  top  of  cheese. 


Crab  Meat  Louis 

For  each  cup  of  crab  allow  yi  cup  of  thick  mayonnaise. 
To  each  cup  of  dressing  add  3^  cup  of  chili  sauce,  1  table- 
spoon of  shredded  pimento,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice. 
Arrange  crab  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  or  place  in  cocktail 
glasses.  Pour  the  Louis  dressing  over  the  crab  and  gar- 
nish with  stuffed  olives. 


Casaba  Melon  Salad 

Cut  casaba  melon  into  balls  with  a  French  potato  cutter 
or  cut  into  cubes.  Peel  and  seed  an  equal  quantity  of 
white  grapes;  add  to  melon,  arrange  in  crisp  lettuce  leaves, 
pour  over  all  a  French  dressing,  then  sprinkle  the  top  with 
cottage  or  white  cream  cheese  which  has  been  pressed 
through  a  potato  ricer. 


[326]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Oyster  Poulette 

1  cup  oyster  liquor.  K  teaspoon  pepper. 

1  cup  thin  cream.  2  cups  oysters. 

4  egg  yolks  or  2  whole  eggs.  Grating  of  nutmeg. 
Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Heat  oysters  to  boiling  point  in  the  oyster  liquor 
(chicken  stock  may  be  used).  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the 
cream  and  stir  into  the  hot  mixture.  Cook  over  hot 
water  until  the  sauce  thickens.  Add  seasonings  and  serve. 
A  cup  of  mushroom  caps  may  be  added  just  before  the 
eggs. 

English  Monkey 

1  cup  milk.  1  cup  cheese  cut  in  cubes  or 

1  egg.  grated. 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs.  J^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  Paprika. 

Heat  milk  and  bread  crumbs.  When  hot  add  beaten 
egg,  seasoning  and  cheese,  stirring  until  the  cheese  is 
melted.    Serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

Curried  Eggs 

4  hard-cooked  eggs.  1  teaspoon  curry  powder. 

1  cup  well-seasoned,  medivun       1  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 
white  sauce.  1  tablespoon  onion  juice. 

Add  curry  powder  to  flour  when  preparing  white  sauce. 
Cut  eggs  in  quarters  and  pour  sauce  over  them.  Serve  at 
once.  White  fish,  oysters,  lobster,  crab  or  shrimp  may  be 
prepared  in  the  same  manner.  Any  well-seasoned  stock 
or  oyster  liquor  may  replace  milk  in  making  the  white 
sauce. 

Eggs  and  Mushrooms 

1  cup  tomato  sauce.  Pepper. 

1  cup    mushrooms  (fresh    or       1  teaspoon  Worchestershire 

canned).  sauce. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  4  eggs. 

Simmer  the  mushrooms  in  the  tomato  sauce  until  ten- 
der; add  seasonings  and  the  eggs  which  have  been  broken 
in  a  bowl  but  not  beaten.  Stir  gently  with  a  fork  until 
eggs  are  cooked.  Serve  on  toast.  Allow  an  egg  for  each 
person  and  additional  sauce  proportionately. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [327] 

Welsh  Rarebit 

1  cup  cheese,  grated.  Paprika. 

Yo  teaspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

1  teaspoon  mustard.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  teaspoon  Worchestershire  1  cup  cold  milk, 
sauce. 

Melt  butter;  remove  from  fire;  add  flour,  also  mustard, 
salt,  paprika.  Stir  until  well  blended,  then  return  to  fire 
and  cook  until  frothy.  Add  cold  milk  and  stir  until  some- 
what thickened;  add  cheese  and  stir  until  melted.  Do  not 
allow  this  mixture  to  boil  after  cheese  is  added.  Serve  on 
slices  of  bread  toasted  on  one  side  only,  pouring  the  mix- 
ture over  the  untoasted  side.  Sprinkle  generously  with 
paprika  and  serve  at  once. 

Lobster  Wiggle 

1  cup  lobster.  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

1  cup  peas.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  thin  milk  or  cream.  Dash  of  red  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  K  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 
2  tablespoons  butter. 

Melt  butter;  add  flour,  mix  until  smooth,  then  cook 
until  frothy  and  add  milk;  add  the  seasonings.  Stir  until 
creamy,  then  add  the  lobster  and  cooked  peas  and  cook  1 
minute.    Serve  hot  on  buttered  toast. 

Scotch  -Woodcock 

One  cup  well-seasoned  medium  white  sauce,  to  this  add 
2  tablespoons  of  essence  of  anchovies  or  anchovy  paste, 
and  4  hard  cooked  eggs  cut  into  quarters.  Pour  over  toast 
and  serve. 

Chicken  a  la  King 

1  cup  chicken  broth.  3  cups  cooked  chicken. 

1  cup  rich  milk  or  thin  cream.  4  egg  yolks  or  2  whole  eggs. 

2  level  tablespoons  butter.  J^  green  pepper,  shredded. 
2  level  tablespoons  flour.  Yi  pimento,  shredded. 

Yi  teaspoon  salt.  1  cup  mushroom  caps. 

M  teaspoon  pepper.  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Melt  butter,  add  mushrooms  and  shredded  green  pep- 
per and  cook  about  5  minutes  over  a  slow  fire  so  the  butter 
will  not  burn;  add  flour  and  seasonings,  mix  well,  then 
add  cold  chicken  stock  and  milk,  stir  constantly   until 


[328]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

creamy.  Set  dish  over  hot  water,  add  chicken  sliced  or 
cut  in  cubes,  and  pimento;  let  cook  until  hot,  then  add  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  seasonings.  Serve  on  toast  or  in  ramekins 
or  Swedish  timbale  cases. 

Toasted  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Cut  rounds  from  white  bread  with  a  cooky  cutter  and 
spread  with  butter  that  has  been  creamed  enough  to 
soften  it.  Grate  cheese  over  the  slices  and  sprinkle  with 
paprika.  Put  2  rounds  together  and  brown  in  the  oven 
until  crisp. 

Oyster  Scallop 

2  cups  cooked  rice.  1  tablespoon  corn  starch. 

2  cups  fresh  oysters.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

1  cup  chopped  celery.  Yi  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  milk.  y^  teaspoon  pepper. 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  corn  starch,  milk,  salt, 
and  pepper.  In  a  baking  dish,  arrange  alternate  layers  of 
rice,  oysters,  celery  and  white  sauce  until  dish  is  nearly 
full,  having  a  layer  of  rice  cover  the  top.  Bake  for  20 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Enchilades 

(A  Recipe  from  Mexico  City) 

The  sauce: 

Wash  and  remove  seeds  from  6  large  red  chili  peppers. 
Cover  with  4  cups  of  soup  stock  or  water  and  simmer  until 
tender  (about  1  hour).  Strain;  rubbing  the  chili  peppers 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Melt  2  tablespoons  of  shortening, 
add  2  cloves  of  garlic  (which  is  to  be  removed  when  sauce 
is  cooked),  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  mix  until  smooth 
and  add  chili  mixture.     Simmer  until  creamy. 

The  filling: 

Mince  2  onions  and  3^  pound  of^Edam  or  Parmesan 
cheese.  Sprinkle  with  Spanish  sage  and  a  few  drops  of 
tabasco  sauce.  Take  the  tortillas  and  dip  each  in  the 
hot  sauce  until  heated  through,  sprinkle  with  the  filling 
and  roll  up  like  jelly  roll.  Place  on  a  hot  platter  and 
cover  with  the  rest  of  the  mixture,  then  pour  over  them 
the  chili  sauce  and  garnish  with  olives.  The  tortillas  can 
be  bought  in  the  Latin  quarter. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [329] 

Easy  To  Carry  Hints  in  Camp  Cookery 
for  Outdoor  Enthusiasts 

For  the  week-end  camper  cooking  is  comparatively 
easy.  Most  of  the  food  is  prepared  at  home  or  purchased 
en  route,  and  boiled  meat,  boiled  or  fried  eggs,  tea  and 
coffee  constitute  most  of  the  necessary  cooking.  The 
week-end  camping  trip  is  sort  of  a  prolonged  picnic,  and 
if  space  is  not  too  much  of  a  factor  and  the  party  not  too 
large,  very  appetizing  meals  can  be  planned,  containing 
canned  goods,  bread,  cake  or  cookies,  which  will  require 
very  little  preparation  for  satisfactory  meals. 

The  regular  camping  trip  of  a  week  or  more  presents  an 
altogether  different  problem  and  necessitates  considerable 
cooking.  Everyone  is  hungry.  Out-of-door  life  certainly 
develops  an  appetite  and  the  amount  of  food  a  party  of 
healthy  persons  can  consume  is  sometimes  appalling  to 
the  cook. 

The  success  of  an  outing  of  this  character  depends 
largely  upon  good  meals.  Poor  cooking  on  a  camping  trip 
has  caused  more  unpleasantness  among  friends  than  any 
other  discomfort  or  inconvenience.  No  matter  how 
patient  one  is  under  extreme  heat,  mosquitoes,  or  the 
many  annoyances  which  are  apt  to  arise,  everyone  will  be 
happy  and  forget  their  troubles  if  the  "eats"  are  good  and 
plentiful.  Regardless  of  how  smoothly  other  things  run, 
if  the  food  is  not  satisfactory,  the  trip  will  be  somewhat 
of  a  failure.  There  is  one  comforting  thought,  however, 
which  will  encourage  camp  cooks — we  all  know  genuine 
hunger  is  not  critical  and  food  will  taste  most  appetizing 
under  camping  conditions  which  would  not  be  tolerated 
at  home. 

The  simplest  food  is  the  most  appetizing  and  also  the 
best  to  eat  and  prepare.  Good  coffee  will  cover  a  multi- 
tude of  shortcomings,  and  put  everyone  in  good  humor. 
To  make  really  good  coffee  in  camp  is  an  art.  One  of  the 
first  essentials  is  to  have  the  coffee  pot  thoroughly  washed 
each  time  it  is  used.  Let  it  stand  open  in  a  sunny  place 
when  not  in  use.    This  is  most  important,  otherwise  the 


[330]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

coffee  will  be  bitter.  Allow  1  rounding  tablespoon  of 
ground  coffee  for  each  cup  of  water  used,  then  allow  1 
extra  tablespoonful  in  the  pot  for  good  measure.  Use 
cold  water  and  set  the  pot  in  a  hot  place  and  allow  to 
reach  boiling  point  and  boil  three  minutes,  no  longer;  set 
in  a  warm  place,  but  not  over  the  fire,  add  ^  cupful  of 
cold  water  and  let  stand  5  or  10  minutes  before  using. 
The  pot  should  be  tightly  covered,  even  taking  care  to 
stop  up  the  spout  so  that  none  of  the  aroma  will  be  lost. 
The  yi  cup  of  cold  water  is  added  last  to  clear  the  coffee. 
Egg  may  be  added  instead,  and  if  used  should  be  mixed 
with  the  ground  coffee  before  adding  any  of  the  cold 
water. 

A  clear,  golden  coffee  will  reward  your  efforts,  which, 
with  canned  cream  and  sugar  will  be  hailed  with  joy.  No 
matter  how  weary  and  tired  from  a  day's  tramp,  a  good 
cup  of  coffee  will  stimulate  and  rest  one. 

Baked  beans,  well  cooked,  make  a  good  dinner.  Dig  a 
hole  large  enough  to  hold  several  stones;  heat  them  very 
hot,  also  have  a  bed  of  coals.  The  beans  should  be  soaked 
over  night  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain  off  all  water  cover  with  fresh  cold  water  and 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  cook  about  Y^  hour.  Drain 
again.  Put  a  piece  of  salt  pork  or  bacon  in  the  bottom  of 
the  bean  pot  or  iron  kettle,  add  beans,  another  piece  of 
salt  pork  or  bacon.  Mix  seasoning  of  mustard  (may  be 
omitted)  salt,  pepper,  and  either  sugar  or  molasses,  the 
latter  giving  the  best  flavor;  add  a  pint  of  hot  water  and 
pour  over  beans;  then  cover  beans  entirely  with  hot  water; 
cover  closely  and  set  on  top  of  hot  coals;  put  the  heated 
stones  on  top,  pack  with  dirt  and  make  as  nearly  air-tight 
as  possible.  Let  cook  all  day — about  8  or  10  hours.  Be 
sure  and  have  a  kettle  or  pot  large  enough  to  hold  suffi- 
cient water  to  completely  cook  the  beans;  otherwise  they 
will  taste  scorched. 

If  brown  beans  are  preferred,  they  should  be  soaked 
over  night  also,  but  they  will  not  require  so  long  a  time  to 
cook,  and  the  seasonings  should  be  tomato  sauce  and 
onions.  A  small  fireless  cooker  is  a  great  help  on  a  long 
camping  trip. 

A  self-rising  pancake  flour  is  easy  to  carry  and  is  most 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK  [331] 

convenient  for  outing  trips.  These  flours  only  require 
an  equal  quantity  of  cold  water  and  they  are  ready  to 
bake.  With  a  small  bed  of  coals,  a  griddle  or  heavy  frying- 
pan  can  be  kept  at  a  uniform  heat,  and  if  different  per- 
sons take  a  turn  at  frying  them,  this  type  of  pancake  will 
make  an  easily  prepared  meal. 

Perhaps  the  hardest  task  of  all  is  to  make  the  camp 
bread,  and  to  be  able  to  make  it  well  is  one  of  the  tests  of 
a  good  outdoor  cook.  The  best  utensil  for  baking  in  camp 
is  a  shallow  iron  kettle  with  an  iron  cover,  commonly 
known  as  a  "Dutch  oven."  Have  a  bed  of  coals,  but  rake 
them  to  one  side  and  set  the  kettle  in  the  center;  put  in 
the  bread,  cover  and  heap  the  coals  on  top  and  let  bread 
cook  about  ^  hour.  One  of  the  commonest  faults  v/ith 
camp  cooking  is  having  too  much  heat;  the  inexperienced 
camper  builds  a  big  fire  which  creates  a  quantity  of  smoke 
and  makes  cooking  impossible.  Hot  coals  are  needed  and 
a  well-built  campfire  will  soon  produce  them.  Avoid  hav- 
ing left-overs,  for  it  is  not  easy  to  utilize  them  in  camp 
cookery.  Have  simple  meals,  but  aim  to  have  food  well 
prepared.  Variety  at  each  meal  is  not  essential,  but 
variety  is  desirable  each  day.  Beans  served  for  several 
meals  in  succession  are  certainly  not  appetizing. 

Potatoes  and  fish  may  be  wrapped  in  clean  wet  paper 
and  cooked  in  hot  ashes. 

If  canned  milk  is  used  allow  3^  milk  to  3^  water  for 
cooking  purposes.  When  milk  is  mentioned  in  a  recipe  it 
means  fresh  milk  or  canned  milk  diluted  in  this  propor- 
tion. 

Any  food  which  is  cooked  in  a  frying-pan  or  kettle  can 
easily  be  managed  over  a  campfire.  If  each  person  will  do 
their  share  of  the  cooking  and  the  inevitable  dish  washing, 
a  camping  trip  will  work  no  hardship  on  any  one  indi- 
vidual. 

Camp  Bread 

4  cups  flour  (1  quart).  2  rounding  tablespoons  short- 
2  level  tablespoons  baking  pow-  ening. 

der.  1^  (about)  cups  milk  or  half 
2  teaspoons  salt.  milk  and  half  water. 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients;  rub  in  shortening  with  the 
finger  tips,  and  gradually  add  liquid,  using  a  knife  for 


[332]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

mixing.  Knead  a  little  in  the  bowl,  pat  into  shape,  and 
place  in  a  greased  iron  kettle  or  heavy  frying-pan;  cover 
closely,  set  over  hot  ashes  or  heated  rocks,  cover  with  hot 
coals  or  rocks  and  bake  about  30  minutes. 

Corn  Bread 

4  cups  corn  meal.  2  cups  of  milk  or  half  milk  and 
4  cups  boiling  water.  half  water. 

2  teaspoons  salt.  3  tablespoons  melted  shorten- 

3  tablespoons  sugar.  ing. 

2  level  tablespoons  baking  pow-      2  eggs,  well  beaten, 
der. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  corn  meal  and  let  stand  until 
cool;  then  add  remaining  ingredients.  Beat  well  and  pour 
into  a  heated  iron  kettle  or  frying-pan.  Set  over  hot  ashes 
or  heated  coals  until  done.  If  baking  powder  and  eggs  are 
not  used  you  will  have  corn  pone. 

Camp  Pot  Pie 

Any  kind  of  meat  may  be  used.  Cut  in  medium-sized 
pieces  and  dip  in  flour.  Heat  drippings  or  shortening  in 
a  heavy  kettle  or  frying-pan,  add  meat  and  brown  on  all 
sides.  If  there  is  a  quantity  of  meat,  fry  only  a  portion  at 
one  time  so  all  will  be  brown,  then  cover  with  boiling 
water;  cover  tightly  and  set  over  hot  ashes  or  a  low  bed  of 
coals  for  2  or  3  hours.  The  meat  should  cook  under  the 
boiling  point,  otherwise  it  will  be  tough.  About  an  hour 
before  serving  add  seasonings  and  vegetables. 

Camp  Dumplings 

2  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  (level)  baking  1  cup  milk, 

powder. 

Mix  in  order  named  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  top  of 
boiling  stew.  Cover  closely  and  cook  about  15  minutes. 
These  dumplings  are  very  acceptable  at  the  camp  dinner. 
Success  depends  upon  having  the  liquid  constantly  boil- 
ing and  keeping  kettle  closely  covered. 

Camp  Shortcake 

Prepare  one-half  the  camp  bread  mixture.  Bake  as 
directed  for  bread.  When  cooked,  split  open,  butter  and 
spread  with  sweetened  fruit.    A  very  easy  dish  to  prepare. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [355] 

Suggestions  for  the  Picnic  Lunch 

The  picnic  lunch  affords  an  opportunity  for  much 
thought  and  display  in  one's  ability  to  prepare  an  appe- 
tizing cold  meal.  The  fact  that  the  food  must  be  in  such 
form  that  it  may  be  easily  carried  limits  the  variety. 

Sandwiches  play  the  most  important  part  on  the  picnic 
menu. 

Everyone  is  hungry,  and  while  fruit  is  refreshing  and 
sweets  are  relished,  after  all  it  is  the  sandwich  which 
makes  the  lunch,  and  there  should  be  several  varieties. 

Bread  is  better  which  is  a  day  old.  The  dark  breads, 
such  as  graham,  rye,  Boston  brown  bread,  and  the  various 
nut- breads  made  with  baking  powder,  all  offer  variety. 
Always  cream  butter  well  before  putting  upon  the  bread. 
It  will  spread  evenly  and  there  will  be  no  waste.  It  is 
easier  to  spread  butter  on  the  bread  before  cutting  each 
slice.  But  if  the  sandwiches  are  to  be  cut  in  various 
fancy  shapes  do  not  butter  the  bread  until  after  it  is  cut, 
otherwise  there  will  be  a  waste  of  butter. 

Cut  bread  very  thin  and  try  to  put  the  slices  together 
in  pairs  if  the  filling  is  not  added  at  once.  If  sandwiches 
are  to  be  cut  in  various  fancy  shapes,  do  not  butter  the 
bread  until  after  it  has  been  cut  or  there  will  be  a  waste  of 
butter.  Wrap  sandwiches  in  waxed  paper  or  wring  a  napkin 
outof  hot  water  and  wrap  around  the  prepared  sandwiches; 
then  pack  in  a  box  closely  covered  and  keep  in  as  cool  a 
place  as  possible.  If  the  crusts  of  bread  are  to  be  removed 
set  aside  and  later  dry  them  out  in  a  moderate  oven,  roll 
and  put  in  covered  jars  to  be  used  for  breading  croquettes, 
fish,  etc.,  or  for  scalloped  dishes.  To  make  rolled  sand- 
wiches remove  all  the  crust  from  a  fresh  loaf  of  white  bread 
and  wrap  the  loaf  in  a  damp  cloth  for  several  hours,  keep- 
ing in  a  cool  place. 

Cut  in  thin  slices  lengthwise,  spread  with  creamed 
butter  and  whatever  filling  desired  and  roll  as  for  a  jelly 
roll,  fastening  together  with  a  toothpick.  If  the  loaf  of 
bread  is  large,  1  slice  will  make  2  sandwich  rolls.  Wrap 
it  in  a  waxed  paper.  If  sliced,  cooked  meat  is  to  be  used 
as  a  filling,  it  should  be  very  tender  and  be  sliced  as  thin 


[334]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

as  possible,  and  then  each  slice  of  meat  should  be  cut  in 
several  pieces.  However,  finely  chopped  meat  is  the  best, 
put  through  a  food  chopper  or  chopped  in  a  chopping 
bowl.  All  meat  sandwich  fillings  should  be  well  seasoned. 
For  corned  beef  use  prepared  mustard;  for  roast  beef, 
either  Worcestershire  sauce  or  horseradish;  for  tongue,  a 
thick  mayonnaise  and  finely  chopped  pickles;  for  mutton 
or  lamb,  add  tomato  catsup  and  chopped  capers;  for 
chopped  ham,  a  thick  mayonnaise  well  seasoned  with 
mustard. 

The  different  relishes  make  excellent  seasoning  for  meat 
sandwiches.  Picalilli,  chow-chow,  chopped  olives,  walnut 
catsup,  etc.,  all  add  flavor  and  variety.  For  salad  sand- 
wiches make  a  very  thick  well-seasoned  mayonnaise  and 
have  the  salad  ingredients  cut  fine.  Lettuce  should  be 
very  crisp  and  each  leaf  well  dried  before  placing  on  the 
bread.  Relishes  such  as  olives,  pickles,  radishes,  celery  or 
salted  nuts  are  very  easy  to  carry.  Sweets  may  be  pro- 
vided in  cake,  cookies,  doughnuts  or  sweet  sandwiches. 

If  the  sandwiches  are  to  be  kept  several  hours  before 
serving,  wrap  them  in  oiled  paper,  or  wring  a  napkin  as 
dry  as  possible  out  of  hot  water  and  wrap  about  the  pre- 
pared sandwiches,  keeping  them  as  cool  as  possible. 

Coffee  is  easily  managed  by  using  the  powdered,  pre- 
pared type  which  needs  only  hot  water  to  make.  Sugar 
and  powdered  or  canned  milk  are  easily  carried.  If 
lemonade  is  to  be  used,  extract  the  lemon  juice,  make  a 
syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  allowing  ^  cup  of  sugar  for 
each  lemon  and  enough  hot  water  to  dissolve  it;  boil  1 
minute  and  add  lemon  juice,  bottle.  Add  cold  water  when 
wanted.  Never  pack  fish  sandwiches  near  other  food, 
and  be  sure  each  article  of  food  is  well  wrapped  or  packed 
so  that  it  will  not  come  in  contact  with  other  foods. 
Much  of  the  success  of  the  picnic  lunch  depends  upon  the 
appearance  of  the  food,  so  careful  packing  is  a  necessity. 

Olive  Sandwich  Filling 

Chop  olives,  mix  with  enough  thick  mayonnaise  to 
make  a  paste,  then  spread  on  bread.  Lettuce  leaf  may 
also  be  added. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [335] 

Bacon  Sandwich  Filling 

Have  bacon  cut  very  thin,  cook  until  crisp  and  put 
between  slices  of  buttered  bread  while  still  warm.  Wrap 
in  waxed  paper. 

Savory  Ham  Filling 

1  cup  finely  chopped  ham.  2  sour  pickles,  finely  chopped. 

14  cup  thick  ayonnaise. 

Mix  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 
Egg  Sandwich  Filling 

Shell  hard  cooked  eggs;  cut  in  two  and  remove  yolks. 
Chop  the  egg  whites  and  put  yolks  through  a  sieve,  com- 
bine and  add  thick  mayonnaise  to  make  a  paste.  Chopped 
stuffed  olives  may  be  added  also. 

Pimento  and  Cheese 

1  small  Neuchatel  or  breakfa^st      1  pimento,  chopped, 
cheese. 

Moisten  with  thick  mayonnaise. 

Noisette  Sandwiches 

Use  nut  bread,  spread  with  cream  cheese  and  butter, 
beaten  together  until  soft  enough  to  spread.  Cover  with 
orange  marmalade,  then  place  plain  slice  of  bread  on  top. 
Cut  in  triangles. 

California  Sandwiches 

Equal  quantities  of  chopped  seeded  raisins  and  wal- 
nuts. Flavor  with  a  little  lemon  juice.  Spread  on  graham 
bread. 

Ham  and  Egg  Sandwich 

1  cup  chopped  ham.  34  cup  mayonnaise. 

2  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Shell  eggs  and  chop  very  fine;  mix  ingredients.  The 
mayonnaise  should  be  well  seasoned  with  mustard. 

Olive  and  Cheese  Sandwich 

Moisten  finely  chopped  stuffed  olives  with  a  thick 
mayonnaise  dressing.    Spread  upon  one-half  the  buttered 


[336]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

slices  of  bread;  the  remaining  slices  are  spread  with  cream 
cheese,  then  press  together  in  pairs. 

Caviar  Sandwich 

For  each  tablespoon  of  caviar  used,  add  a  few  drops  of 
onion  and  lemon  juice,  then  mix  well.  Spread  between 
thin  buttered  slices  of  bread. 

Sardine  Filling 

Remove  bones  and  rub  sardines  to  a  paste.  Season 
with  lemon  juice  and  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Cheese  and  Walnut  Sandwich  Filling 

1  small  cream  cheese.  J^  cup  finely  chopped  walnuts. 
M  cup  butter.                                  Salt  and  paprika. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  cheese,  nuts  and  seasonings. 
Spread  on  unbuttered  slices  of  bread. 

Fig  Sandwich  Fillin,g 

Chop  1  cup  of  figs  very  fine,  add  a  little  water  and  cook 
to  a  paste.  Chop  very  fine  j^  cup  of  blanched  almonds, 
add  to  the  fig  paste  and  season  all  with  a  little  lemon 
juice.  Cool  before  using.  Raisins  or  dates  may  be  treated 
in  the  same  manner. 

Cheese  Sandwich  Filling 

2  tablespoons  butter.  K  teaspoon  dry  mustard. 
2  tablespoons  flour.                        1  cup  milk. 

^2  teas  oon  salt.  1  cup  cheese  cut  in  cubes. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  dry  ingredients  and  mix  until 
smooth.  Cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  frothy,  then  add  cold 
milk  and  cheese  and  stir  until  creamy.  Cool  and  spread 
between  unbuttered  slices  of  bread.  The  filling  should  be 
as  thick  as  the  bread. 

Prune  Sandwich  Filling 

Drain  and  rub  pitted  cooked  prunes  through  a  coarse 
sieve.  For  each  cup  mashed  prunes  add  1  teaspoon  lemon 
juice  and  1  tablespoon  orange  marmalade. 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK   BOOK  [337] 

Candies 

The  base,  or  foundation,  of  all  cream  candies  is  fondant. 
If  directions  are  carefully  followed  fondant  can  easily  be 
made,  and  from  this  foundation  an  almost  endless  variety 
of  combinations.  As  sugar  syrups  are  easily  affected  by 
atmospheric  conditions,  it  will  be  advisable  to  select  a 
clear  day  for  making  candies. 

The  following  rules  should  be  constantly  kept  in  mind 
when  cooking  syrup  for  fondant:  Scald  the  saucepan  be- 
fore using,  to  be  sure  no  odor  or  taste  is  left  from  previous 
use.  Never  stir  the  syrup  after  the  sugar  has  dissolved 
and  cooking  has  commenced.  If  stirred  the  finished 
product  will  be  granular.  When  testing  the  syrup,  reduce 
the  heat  under  the  saucepan  or  carefully  remove  from  the 
fire  in  order  to  prevent  further  cooking.  Always  cover 
the  saucepan  until  the  boiling  point  is  reached.  If  any 
sugar  has  gathered  on  the  saucepan,  the  steam  created  by 
covering  the  utensil  will  remove  it.  Wash  the  hands  in 
cold  water  before  kneading  the  fondant.  Never  attempt 
to  make  a  larger  quantity  at  one  time  than  recipe  calls 
for;  even  half  that  amount  might  be  easier  at  first.  If  a 
quantity  is  desired,  make  the  recipe  several  times — it  will 
be  much  more  successful. 

Fondant 

To  4  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  J^  teaspoon  of  cream 
of  tartar,  add  2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Mix  carefully  until 
sugar  is  dissolved,  to  avoid  any  possibility  of  sugar  grains 
gathering  on  the  sides  of  the  saucepan.  This  is  most  im- 
portant, and  if  sugar  has  gathered  on  the  kettle  carefully 
wash  it  off  with  a  damp  cloth.  If  the  saucepan  is  not  kept 
free  of  sugar  the  fondant  will  become  grainy.  Cover  kettle 
until  boiling  point  is  reached,  then  uncover  and  cook  until 
the  syrup  will  form  a  soft  ball  (238  deg.  F.)  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.  This  will  take  about  10  minutes.  When 
cooked  remove  from  the  fire  at  once  and  set  aside  to  cool 
in  the  kettle  in  which  it  was  cooked.  The  syrup  should 
cool  evenly,  so  must  not  be  poured  into  a  cold  dish.  When 
cool,  but  not  cold,  stir  well  with  a  flat  wooden  spoon  until 


[338]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

the  syrup  has  changed  to  a  white,  creamy  mass,  too  stiff 
to  stir.  Turn  on  to  a  moulding  board  and  knead  just  as 
you  would  bread.  The  lightness  of  the  fondant  depends 
upon  the  amount  of  kneading  it  has  received.  Place  in  a 
bowl  or  jar,  cover  with  a  damp  cloth  and  set  aside  in  a 
cool  place  for  several  hours,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  the 
various  types  of  cream  candies.  If  well  made,  fondant 
will  be  very  white,  glossy  and  satiny  in  appearance,  and 
should  be  as  smooth  as  butter  when  rolled  between  the 
fingers.  Sometimes  fondant  will  become  grainy,  or  sugary, 
and  if  this  condition  should  happen  put  it  in  a  saucepan, 
add  hot  water  to  cover,  stir  until  dissolved  and  cook  again 
to  the  soft-ball  stage. 

Maple  Fondant 

Maple  fondant  is  made  with  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1 
cup  of  maple  syrup,  yi  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  1 
cup  of  boiling  water.  Mix  carefully  and  cook  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  white  fondant. 

Cream  Drops 

Divide  the  fondant  into  several  portions,  using  about 
yi  cupful  for  each  portion;  place  one  part  in  a  cup  or 
bowl  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  fondant  is  melted, 
then  flavor,  color  and  drop  from  the  tip  of  a  teaspoon  on 
to  a  slightly  greased  paper.  Each  part  should  be  flavored 
and  colored  differently.  These  creams  will  harden  at 
once,  but  should  not  be  removed  from  the  paper  for  an 
hour  or  two.  Peppermint,  wintergreen,  chocolate,  lemon 
and  orange  are  the  best  flavors  to  use.  Perfectly  harmless 
vegetable  colorings  come  in  a  paste  form,  and  it  requires 
only  a  small  amount  to  produce  a  delicate  color.  They 
come  in  tiny  jars  and  will  last  for  several  years,  so  are  not 
expensive. 

Stuffed  Prunes 

A  very  satisfactory  candy,  easily  made  and  good  for 
the  children.  Wash  prunes  well,  then  place  in  a  steamer 
over  hot  water  until  they  become  plump,  but  not  soft  or 
broken.  Cool,  remove  pit  and  stuff  with  vanilla  or  choco- 
late flavored  fondant.     Roll  the  fondant  in  balls  before 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [339] 

stuffing  prunes.  Or  fill  prunes  with  marshmallows.  For  a 
dinner  confection,  stuff  prunes  with  salted  almonds  or 
walnut  meats. 

Chocolate  Creams 

Flavor  fondant  and  roll  into  small  balls;  set  aside  to 
dry  for  an  hour  or  more.  Use  a  dipping  or  an  unsweetened 
chocolate  for  coating.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water 
and  do  not  keep  over  the  fire  after  it  has  melted.  Dip 
each  ball  of  fondant  into  the  chocolate,  using  a  candy 
dipper  or  a  fork.  Do  this  quickly,  so  that  too  much  choc- 
olate is  not  coated  to  the  fondant,  for  it  will  only  run  off 
and  spread  as  the  candy  dries.  Set  each  cream  on  a 
slightly  greased  or  waxed  paper  to  dry. 

Walnut  Creams 

Flavor  fondant,  roll  into  small  balls,  then  press  half  a 
walnut  meat  on  each  side;  set  aside  to  dry.  Pecans  or 
almonds  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 

Nut  Bars 

Knead  chopped  nuts  into  flavored  fondant  and  make 
into  a  roll  about  2  inches  thick  and  5  or  6  inches  long. 
Cut  off  pieces  about  yi  inch  thick  and  set  aside  to  dry. 

Cocoanut  Bars 

Knead  cocoanut  into  flavored  fondant;  roll  about  2 
inches  thick  and  several  inches  long  and  cut  into  ^  inch 
slices. 

Candied  Orange  Peel 

Remove  the  skin  from  oranges  in  quarters;  put  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling 
point.  Simmer  until  tender.  Drain;  remove  all  the  white 
portion;  cut  in  thin  strips  with  the  scissors;  boil  1  cup  of 
sugar  with  yi  cup  of  hot  water  until  it  spins  a  thread  when 
dropped  from  the  tip  of  a  spoon;  add  the  orange  peel, 
cook  5  minutes,  drain  from  syrup  and  roll  in  granulated 
sugar. 


[340]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK 

Divinity  Fudge 

2  cups  of  sugar.  2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 

H  cup  corn  syrup.  Vi  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

}/i  cup  water.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  water,  without  stirring,  until  the 
syrup  becomes  brittle  (270  deg.  F.)  when  dropped  in  cold 
water.  Pour  over  the  beaten  egg  whites,  add  vanilla  and 
nuts.    Pour  into  a  greased  plate,  cool  and  cut  in  squares. 

Peanut  Butter  Candy 

2  cups  sugar.  \i  cup  peanut  butter. 

M  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Bring  sugar  and  milk  to  the  boiling  point  and  cook  until 
syrup  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  add  remaining  ingredients  and  beat 
until  creamy.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  about  an  inch  in 
depth,  cool  and  cut  in  squares. 

Fudge 

2  cups  sugar.  M  cup  milk. 

2  squares  imsweetened  choco-      1  tablespoon  butter, 
late.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  sugar,  milk  and  chocolate  until  the  syrup  forms  a 
soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water  (238  deg.  F.).  Take 
from  the  fire,  add  butter;  set  aside  to  cool  slightly,  then  add 
vanilla  and  stir  mixture  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour 
at  once  into  a  buttered  plate  and  cut  into,  squares.  Chop- 
ped nuts  may  be  added. 

Nut,  Date  and  Chocolate  Sweetmeat 

4  tablespoons  maple  syrup.  Yi  cup  blanched  almonds,  cut 

Yi  lb.  of  "Dot"  or  dipping  in  shreds. 

chocolate.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  package  dates  cut  from  seeds 
and  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Heat  the  syrup  to  boiling  point,  add  chocolate  and  let 
stand  over  hot  water  until  chocolate  is  melted.  Add 
dates,  nuts  and  flavoring.  Mix  until  thoroughly  blended — 
pour  into  a  brick-shaped  pan  that  has  been  lined  smoothly 
with  oiled  paper. 

Press  mixture  into  pan,  spread  oiled  paper  over  top  and 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK    BOOK  [341] 

over  this  place  a  board  and  weight.  Let  stand  six  hours 
or  longer  to  ripen.  Remove  from  paper  and  cut  in  small 
pieces. 

Pinoche 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  1  cup  chopped  nuts ;  pecans  or 

Yi  cup  milk  or  thin  cream.  walnuts. 

Add  milk  to  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved  and  boil  until 
syrup  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Add  nuts  and  flavoring  and  beat  until  creamy.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  pan  and  when  cool  cut  in  squares. 

Peanut  Brittle 

Take  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  peanuts  which  have  been 
roasted,  shelled  and  broken.  Melt  sugar  in  an  iron  frying 
pan  over  a  slow  fire  until  a  golden  syrup  is  formed.  It 
will  be  necessary  to  stir  this  constantly.  As  soon  as  the 
syrup  begins  to  color  remove  from  the  fire;  the  heat  of  the 
pan  should  finish  the  cooking;  then  add  the  peanuts,  mix 
and  pour  on  an  ungreased  platter.  When  cold  and  hard 
break  into  pieces. 

Glace  Nuts 

Halves  of  walnuts,  pecans,  almond  or  Brazil  nuts  are 
dipped  into  the  melted  sugar  just  before  it  turns  brown. 
Drop  each  coated  nut  on  a  greased  plate  to  cool  and 
harden. 


3421  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 


Invalid  Cookery 


ooD  for  the  sick  and  convalescent  should  be  care- 
fully prepared  and  daintily  served.  The  attractive 
appearance  has  much  to  do  towards  tempting  a 
capricious  appetite.  In  severe  cases  of  sickness 
the  physician  in  charge  usually  prescribes  the  diet,  and 
regardless  of  the  wishes  or  cravings  of  the  patient  the 
doctor's  orders  should  be  carried  out  implicitly.  In  mild 
cases  of  sickness  or  during  convalescence,  nutrious  and 
easily  digested  food  is  required  to  bring  the  body  back  to 
its  normal  condition. 

While  there  is  no  effort  on  the  part  of  the  patient  that 
would  seem  to  require  energy  foods,  nevertheless  the  body 
requirements  are  almost  the  same  during  illness  as  in 
health.  After  a  long  acute  illness  a  convalescing  patient 
may  require  more  food  than  when  perfectly  well  in  order 
to  bring  the  body  back  to  its  normal  condition,  and  also 
supply  the  daily  food  requirements.  If  insufficient  fuel 
food  is  supplied  during  illness  the  body  will  have  to  draw 
upon  its  own  reserve  which  will  weaken  the  patient  and 
make  recovery  slow. 

The  foods  selected  should  be  easily  digested  and  assimi- 
lated in  order  to  place  no  undue  tax  upon  the  system. 

Milk  in  some  form,  either  plain  or  in  combination  with 
cereals,  eggs,  etc.,  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  foods  for 
the  invalid's  tray. 

Gruels  are  easily  digested  and  assimilated  but  unless 
taken  in  quantities  will  not  supply  sufficient  nutriment. 
Their  chief  value  is  to  allay  hunger,  often  imaginary  on 
the  part  of  the  patient. 

Beef  juice  has  very  little  fuel  value  unless  taken  in 
quantity.  As  it  is  not  as  palatable  as  broth  or  beef  tea 
it  is  usually  served  in  small  portions. 

Broths  and  clear  soups  contain  little  nutriment  but  are 
relished  for  their  soothing  qualities  if  served  hot,  and 
refreshing  if  served  cold.  When  some  thickening  medium 
such  as  eggs  or  cereals  are  added  to  any  of  these  gruels 
or  broths  their  food  value  increases. 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [343] 

Gluten  Bread 

1  cup  water.  J-2  teaspoon  salt. 

M  cup  lukewarm  water.  2  cups  gluten  flour. 

}/z  cake  compressed  yeast. 

Soak  yeast  cake  in  lukewarm  water  until  soft.  Scald 
water  and  cool  to  lukewarm,  then  add  yeast; salt,  and  grad- 
ually beat  in  the  flour  until  dough  is  too  stiff  to  handle, 
then  knead  thoroughly,  using  more  flour  if  necessary.  Be 
sure  the  water  is  only  lukewarm  otherwise  the  mixture 
will  be  sticky  and  hard  to  handle.  Shape  into  a  loaf  and 
place  in  a  greased  pan.  Let  stand  in  a  moderately  warm 
place  until  the  loaf  doubles  in  size.  Bake  about  45  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven. 

Oatmeal  Gruel 

}A,  cup  rolled  oats.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

13^  cups  boiling  water. 

Mix  ingredients  and  cook  directly  over  the  flame  for 
5  minutes,  then  over  hot  water  for  one  hour.  Strain,  then 
reheat,  adding  milk  or  cream  as  desired. 

Commeal  Gruel 

2  tablespoons  corn  meal.  4  tablepoons  cold  water. 

1  tablespoon  flour.  2  cups  boiling  water. 
H  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  corn  meal  flour  and  salt  with  the  cold  water  to  a 
smooth  paste,  then  add  to  the  rapidly  boiling  water, 
stirring  constantly.  Cook  over  a  low  fire  about  2  hours. 
Dilute  to  desired  consistency  with  hot  milk  or  cream, 
then  strain. 

Farina  Gruel 

2  tablespoons  Farina.  1  cup  hot  milk. 
]/2  cup  cold  water.  ]/^  teaspoon  salt. 
1  cup  boiling  water. 

Mix  Farina  with  cold  water,  then  add  to  salted  boiling 
water.  Cook  directly  over  the  fire  5  minutes,  then  over 
hot  water  30  minutes.  Add  the  hot  milk  and  serve.  The 
gruel  may  be  poured  over  1  well-beaten  egg. 

Beef  Tea 

1  pound  of  roimd  steak.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  cold  water. 


[344]  MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK 

Wipe  steak  with  a  damp  cloth.  Remove  all  fat  and  cut 
into  half-inch  cubes.  Put  meat  into  a  quart  glass  fruit-jar, 
add  cold  water  and  let  stand  half  an  hour  to  extract  the 
juice.  Adjust  rubber  band  and  cover  tightly  on  jar  and 
set  on  a  rack  or  plate  placed  in  the  bottom  of  a  large 
kettle.  Surround  with  cold  water  and  gradually  heat 
until  water  is  hot  but  not  boiling.  Keep  hot  for  about 
2  hours.  Strain  and  cool.  Remove  all  fat,  reheat,  season 
and  serve  in  hot  cups. 

Beef  Juice 

1  pound  of  top  round  steak. 

Wipe  meat  and  remove  all  fat.  Broil  about  1  minute 
on  each  side  to  start  the  juices,  then  slash  meat  both 
lengthwise  and  crosswise  that  more  juice  may  be  extracted. 
Squeeze  out  the  juice  in  a  press,  lemon  squeezer  or  potato 
ricer.  Pour  into  a  hot  cup,  season  slightly  with  salt  and 
serve.  Very  little  of  this  juice  can  be  relished  at  one  time, 
one-half  a  cupful  or  less. 

Mutton  or  Beef  Broth 

The  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  should  be  used.  For  each 
pound  of  meat  and  bones  allow  4  cups  or  1  quart  of  cold 
water,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Wipe  the  meat,  remove  skin 
and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Have  bones  well-cracked,  and 
broken.  Put  into  a  kettle,  add  cold  water,  and  let  stand 
30  minutes  to  extract  the  juices.  Add  salt  and  gradually 
heat  to  simmering  point.  Keep  below  boiling  point  about 
4  hours  or  until  meat  is  very  tender.  Strain  and  cool. 
Remove  fat.  Reheat  in  a  double  boiler  or  over  hot  water, 
season  and  serve.  Broths  should  be  made  a  day  before 
serving  so  that  all  the  fat  may  be  easily  removed.  Cooked 
rice  or  pearl  barley  may  be  added  to  the  strained  broth. 

Chicken  Broth 

Dress  chicken  and  remove  all  skin  and  fat.  Cut  as  for 
a  fricassee,  then  proceed  as  for  mutton  broth. 

Scraped  Beef 

Secure  top  round  steak.  Lay  meat  on  a  board  and  with 
a  silver  spoon  scrape  off  the  soft  part  until  nothing  re- 


MRS.    DE   GRAF'S   COOK   BOOK  [345] 

mains  but  the  stringy,  tough  fiber  which  is  discarded. 
Make  into  flat,  small  cakes  and  broil.  Add  salt  after 
meat  is  cooked.     Serve  with  toast. 

Prune  Custard 

3^  cup  prune  pulp.  1  teaspoon  melted  butter. 

Yi  cup  milk  scalded.  1  egg  beaten. 

1  tablespoon  sugar. 

Prepare  prune  pulp  by  pitting  and  rubbing  cooked 
prunes  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Add  all  ingredients  to  the 
prune  pulp.  Pour  into  two  buttered  custard  cups,  set  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
firm.    Other  fruit  pulp  may  replace  the  prunes. 

Fruit  Whip 

3  tablespoons  fruit  pulp.  ^  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

1  egg  white.  1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar. 

Use  fresh  or  cooked  fruit  or  jelly.  Rub  the  fruit  through 
a  coarse  sieve.  Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  with  a  whip 
egg  beater  until  very  firm;  fold  in  the  fruit  pulp  and  sugar. 
If  cooked  fruits  or  jelly  are  used  the  sugar  will  not  be  re- 
quired.    Serve  with  a  custard  sauce. 

Malted  MUk  Custard 

2  tablespoons  Malted  Milk  1  egg  well  beaten. 

Powder.  1  cup  hot  water. 

Put  malted  milk  powder  in  a  bowl;  add  just  enough  of 
the  hot  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste  free  from  all  lumps. 
Gradually  add  the  remainder  of  the  water.  Pour  this  over 
the  well-beaten  egg.  Pour  into  buttered  custard  cups,  set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
firm  in  the  center. 

Blanc  Mange 

H  cup  milk.  1  egg  white. 

1  level  tablespoon  cornstarch.        yi  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  tablespoon  sugar. 

Scald  milk  in  a  double  boiler  or  over  hot  water.  Mix 
sugar  and  cornstarch  until  well  blended;  add  the  scalded 
milk  slowly  to  the  cornstarch  mixture,  stirring  constantly. 
Return  to  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Then  cook  about  20  minutes,  stirring  fre- 
quently.    Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  until  stiff  and  fold 


[346]  MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK 

into  the  cornstarch  mixture.  When  partially  cool  add 
vanilla  and  pour  into  wet  molds  or  custard  cups.  Chill 
thoroughly  before  unmolding.  Serve  with  a  custard 
sauce,  cream  or  fresh  mashed  fruit. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 

Add  1  tablespoon  of  ground  chocolate  to  the  cornstarch 
and  sugar  mixture,  and  proceed  as  for  plain  Blanc  Mange. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Fruit  Blanc  Mange 

Substitute  fruit  juice  for  the  milk  and  proceed  as  for 
plain  Blanc  Mange.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  a 
custard  sauce. 

Snow  Balls 

14  cup  rice.  3^  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  milk. 

Wash  rice  thoroughly  in  several  waters.  Put  milk  and 
rice  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  milk  is  absorbed 
and  rice  is  tender.  Dip  custard  or  egg  cups  in  cold  water 
then  pack  with  rice  and  turn  out  at  once  on  a  serving 
plate.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Baked  Custard 

Yz  cup  milk  scalded.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  egg  or  2  yolks.  M  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Scald  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  beat  egg  slightly,  add 
sugar,  then  add  hot  milk  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  buttered 
custard  cups  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  custard  is  firm. 

Fruit  Meringue 

1  cup  fruit  pulp.  1  egg  separated. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  Fine  dry  bread  crumbs. 

Press  any  cooked  fruit  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Heat 
fruit  pulp,  add  sugar  and  beaten  egg  yolks.  Butter  cus- 
tard cups  and  cover  the  bottom  and  sides  with  bread 
crumbs.  Pour  in  the  fruit  mixture  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  firm.      Beat  egg  whites  until  stiflF,  gradually 


MRS.    DE    GRAF'S    COOK    BOOK  [347] 

add  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.     Place  in  top  of  pudding  and 
return  to  a  moderate  oven  and  brown  slightly.    Serve  cold. 

Charlotte  Russe 

Vi  cup  whipping  cream.  Lady  fingers. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  Mashed  cooked  fruit. 

Whip  cream,  add  sugar.  Fill  individual  dishes  one- 
third  full  of  mashed  fruit,  then  line  the  dish  with  lady 
fingers  and  fill  with  the  whipped  cream. 

Prune  Toast 

Heat  yi  cup  prune  juice;  add  juice  of  yi  orange  and 
y2  cup  cooked,  pitted  prunes.  Mix  1  teaspoonful  corn- 
starch with  enough  cold  water  to  dissolve;  add  to  hot 
prune  mixture  and  cook  over  hot  water  ten  minutes.  Pour 
over  buttered  toast.  A  nice  breakfast  dish  or,  if  garnished 
with  whipped  cream,  it  makes  a  dessert. 

Fruit  Betty 

Moisten  1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  with  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter.  Use  1  cup  mashed  cooked  fruit.  Put  the 
buttered  crumbs  and  fruit  in  a  baking  dish  in  alternate 
layers.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with  tablespoon  sugar  and  a 
little  lemon  or  orange  juice.  Pour  over  1  cup  fruit  juice 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  cream  or  top  milk. 


INDEX 

A 

APPETIZERS 5Q 

Anchovy  Eggs jq 


Paste. 


50 


Caviare  and  Egg  Canape ^.^ 

Cheese  Relish aq 

Crab  Canape ^g 

Cream  Cheese  Canape 41-42 

Fruit  Cocktail ^g 

Grated  Cheese  Canape ^^ 

Lobster  Cocktail c  j 

Oyster  Cocktail ^g 

Sardine  Canape ^g 

Shell  Fish  Canape ^0 

Smoked  Salmon  Canape ^^ 

Stuffed  Eggs 225 

Crab  Louis 

APPLES— (see  Fruits) ■^^^ 

B 

103 
BACON,  Broiled }q3 

Fried 

18 
BAKING 

BEEF ''-'' 

BEVERAGES 32 

Beef  Tea 33 

Chocolate 33 


Cocoa . 
Coffee. 


.32-33 
..     32 


Tea 

BEVERAGES— COLD ^^ 

California  Punch 3 ^ 

College  Punch 3g 

Fruit  Cup 3^ 

Fruit  Punch 3^ 

Grape  Punch 35 

Honolulu  Fizz 3^ 

Lemon  Whey 37 

Orangeade 3^ 

Orange  Julep 3^ 

Southern  Punch 3^ 

Pineapple  Lemonade 


[350]  INDEX 

BISCUIT— (see  Breakfast  Breads) 206 

BISCUIT  DOUGH  DESSERTS 279 

BOILING 16 

BOILED  DINNER 17 

BRAISING 17 

BREAD,  Helpful  Hints  on 186-187 

Boston  Brown 198 

Bran 190 

Camp 331 

Entire  Wheat 189 

Gluten  Bread 343 

Gingerbread 198 

Golden  Corn 213 

Graham 190 

Nut 197 

Prune 188-197 

Raisin 188 

Rye... 191 

Sandwich 197 

Spoon 213 

Toast 196 

French 196 

Milk 196 

With  Yeast 187 

Without  Yeast 197 

BREAKFAST 64 

BREAKFAST  BREADS 200 

Biscuits 206 

Baking  Powder 207 

Butter  Buns 209 

Cheese 208 

Cinnamon 210 

Corn  Meal 209 

Dinner 208 

Emergency 207 

Entire  Wheat 208 

Graham 209 

Luncheon 208 

Maple  Nut 209 

Savory 208 

Scones 210 

Surprise 209 

Griddle  Cakes 202 

Bread 203 

Cereal 203 

Corn 203 

French  Pancake 204 

Rice 203 

Sour 203 


INDEX  [351] 

BREAKFAST  BREADS— Continued 

Muffins.... 211 

Berkshire 211 

Bran 212 

Corn  Meal  and  Rice 213 

Entire  Wheat 211 

Fruit 212 

Golden  Corn 213 

Graham 211 

Nut 212 

Poriovers 211 

Ric- 214 

Rolled 214 

Rye 211 

Sally  Lurn 212 

Southern  Corn 212 

Waffles 200 

Cereal 205 

Corn  Meal 204 

Entire  Wheat 205 

Rice 205 

Sour  Milk 204 

Sweet  Milk 204 

C 

CAKE 228-236 

Angel 237 

Apple 233 

"      Sauce 233 

Boston  Cream 234 

Cheese 224 

Chocolate 238 

"        Roll 239 

Coffee 192 

"       Brioche 194 

"      Plain 192 

"      Quick 233 

"      Rusk 194 

"      Tea  Ring 192 

"      Wreath 193 

Cream  Puffs 250 

Crumb 235 

Devil's  Food 231 

Eclairs . 250 

Foundation  Recipe 230 

Fruit — Christmas 232 

Golden 231 

Jelly  Roll 235 

King... 235 

Lady  Finger 234 

One  Egg  Chocolate 231 


[352]  INDEX 

CAKE — Continued 

Pound 232 

Prune 233 

Quick 233 

Spice 232 

Sponge — Plain 238 

True 238 

Walnut 230 

White 230 

CAKE  FILLINGS 240 

Chocolate — French  Cream 245 

Mocha 246 

Cocoanut  Cream 245 

Cream  Royal 245 

French  Cream 244 

Jelly 246 

Lady  Baltimore 244 

Macaroon 244 

Marshmallow 244 

Mocha  Butter 246 

"       Cream 245 

Nut  Caramel 244 

Orange 245 

Pineapple 245 

Prune 246 

Strawberry 247 

Tutti  Frutti 246 

Waldorf 244 

Walnut 244 

"       Cream 245 

CAKE  ICINGS 240 

Boiled 242 

Caramel 243 

Chocolate 243 

Confectioners' 242 

Creole 243 

Divinity 243 

Quick 242 

CAMP  COOKERY 329 

Bread 331 

Corn  Bread 332 

Dumplings 332 

Pot  Pie 332 

Shortcake 332 

CANAPES 49 

Caviare  and  Egg 50 

Crab 49 

Cream  Cheese 49 

Grated  Cheese 49 

Lobster 49 


INDEX  [353] 

CANAPES— Continued 

Sardine 49 

Shell  Fish 49 

Smoked  Salmon 50 

CANDIES 337 

Candied  Orange  Peel 339 

Cocoanut  Bars 339 

Creams — Chocolate 338 

Drops 338 

"          Walnut 339 

Divinity  Fudge 340 

Fondant 337 

Fudge 340 

Nut  Bars 339 

Peanut  Brittle 340 

Stuffed  Prunes 338 

Sweet  Meats 340 

CANNING  FRUIT 312 

Time  Table 314 

CANNING  VEGETABLES 307 

Asparagus 310 

Green  Peas 310 

Lima  Beans 311 

String  Beans 310 

Tomatoes 310 

Time  Table 309 

CEREALS — Time  for  Cooking 66 

Directions  for  Cooking 67 

Gruel — Cornmeal 343 

"        Farina 343 

Oatmeal 343 

Rice— Boiled 68 

Oriental  Method 69 

CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY 323 

Chicken  a  la  King 327 

Curried  Eggs 326 

Eggs  and  Mushrooms 326 

English  Monkey 326 

Lobster  Wiggle 327 

Oyster  Scallop 328 

Scotch  Woodcock 327 

Toasted  Cheese  Sandwich 328 

Welsh  Rarebit 327 

CHEESE 118 

Biscuit 208 

Baked  with  Rice 123 

Cake 224 

Cream  Cheese  Canape 49 

Croquettes 121 


[354]  INDEX 

CHEESE — Continued 

English  Monkey 326 

Fondu 125 

Gnocchi 126 

Grated  Cheese  Canape 49 

Macaroni 122 

Omelet 78 

Pineapple  Salad 325 

Relish 51 

Roquefort  Dressing 175 

Salad  Dressing 174 

Sandwich 336 

Sauce 161 

Spaghetti  a  I'ltalienne 123 

Scotch  Woodcock 327 

Toast  and  Bacon 122 

Toasted  Sandwiches 328 

Walnut  Sandwiches 336 

Welsh  Rarebit 336 

CHICKEN 104 

A  la  King 327 

Au  Gratin 133 

Casserole 108 

Croquettes 138 

Fricassee ^ 107 

Fried 109 

Maryland 109 

Oven  Cooked 109 

Oyster  Pie  and 132 

Paprika 109 

Pie 108 

Roast 107 

Stewed 108 

CHOCOLATE 33 

Cake 238 

Filling 245-246 

Roll 239 

CHOWDERS 62 

CLAMS,  Creamed 89 

Chowder 62 

Panned 89 

Steamed 89 

COBBLER— FRUIT 280 

COCKTAILS,  Crab 49 

Fruit 41-42 

Lobster 49 


INDEX  [355] 

COCKTAILS— Continued 

Oyster 51 

Sauce 51 

COCOA 33 

COFFEE 32-33 

Cakes 192-194 

COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES 248 

Cream  PufFs 250 

Doughnuts 254 

Dropped 254 

Raised 195 

Drop 252 

Eclairs 250 

Ginger 253-254 

Hermits 253 

Kisses 250 

Meringues 250 

Rolled  Oat 252 

"        "    Macaroons 252 

"      Wheat 253 

Sponge 251 

Sugar 251 

Walnut  Wafers 253 

CRAB 90,  325 

Deviled 90 

Louis 325 

Newberg 90 

CRANBERRIES— JELLIED 302 

CREAM— TO  WHIP 282 

CROQUETTES 136 

Cheese 138 

Chicken 138 

Fish 137 

Ham 137 

How  to  Fry 137 

Macaroni 139 

Meat 137 

Potato 138 

Rice 138 

Sauce  for — Brown 137 

"       "      White 137 

To  Shape 136 

CROUTONS 61 

CULINARY  TERMS  AND  METHODS 14 

CUSTARDS 256 

Baked 258 

Caramel 258 

Chocolate 258 

Cocoanut 259 


[356 


INDEX 


CUSTARDS— Continued 

Floating  Island 259 

How  to  Make 256 

Maple 259 

Mocha 259 

Rice 261 

Sauce 167 

Soft 257 

D 

DEEP  FAT  FRYING 134 

DESSERTS  OF  BISCUIT  DOUGH 279 

Cobbler  Fruit.  . 280 

Dumplings — Fruit 279 

Prune 279 

Fruit  Roll— Steamed 280 

Shortcake— Old  Fashioned 279 

Turnovers — Orange 279 

DESSERTS— FROZEN 292 

Biscuit  Tortoni 295 

Frozen  Custard 294 

"       Meringues 296 

"       Pudding 294 

Ice  Cream — Bisque 295 

"            Chocolate 294 

Fruit 294 

French 294 

Philadelphia 294 

Mousse — Fruit 294 

Maple 295 

Parfait — Pineapple 296 

Sherbet 295 

Water  Ice 295 

DESSERTS  OF  GELATINE 282 

Apple  Snow 286 

Butterscotch  Rice 285 

Caramel 283 

Charlotte  Russe — Banana 284 

Mocha 284 

Lemon 283 

Mock  Biscuit  Tortoni 285 

Orange 283 

"       Bavarian 285 

Spanish  Cream 284 

DESSERTS  OF  WHIPPED  CREAM 287 

Bavarians — Fruit 288 

Charlotte  Russe 288 

"      Raisin 290 

"             "      Surprise 290 

Cream  Whips 289 


INDEX  [357] 

DESSERTS  OF  WHIPPED  CREAM— Continued 

Fruit  Cream— Molded 290 

Marshmallow  Cream 291 

"  Strawberry 289 

Rice  Dainty. 290 

Strawberry  Whip 291 

DINNER  MENUS 321-332 

DINNERS— HOLIDAY 320 

DOUGHNUTS 254 

Dropped 254 

Raised 195 

DRESSINGS 110 

Bread 110 

Celery 110 

Chestnut 110 

Oyster 110 

Prune 110 

DRIED  BEEF— Creamed  with  Spaghetti 132 

DUCK— Roast 109 

DUMPLINGS,  Camp 332 

Drop 210 

Fruit 279 


£ 

ECLAIRS 250 

EGGS 70 

A  la  King 74 

Anchovy 50 

Asparagus,  with 73 

Baked  with  Cheese 75 

"         "     Mashed  Potatoes 73 

"      in  Potato  Cases 73 

Benedict 73 

California 124 

Creole 75 

Curried 74-326 

Food  Value 70 

Fried 73 

Hard  Cooked 71 

Marine 74 

Mushrooms,  with 326 

Poached 72 

"        with  Cheese 122 

"           "     Spinach 72 

Sandwich  Filling 335 

Scrambled 72 

"          with  White  Sauce 72 

Serving 70 


[358]  INDEX 

EGGS — Continued 

Shirred  Creole 74 

Soft  Cooked 71 

Stuffed 51 

To  Pack 75 

ENCHILADAS 328 

EVERYDAY  MISTAKES  IN  COOKING 19 

F 

FARINA 66 

Gruel 343 

Spanish 125 

FAT 28 

Deep  Fa'  Frying 134 

To  Render 29 

Value  in  the  Diet 28 

FISH  COOKERY 84 

Au  Gratin 133 

Baked 86 

"      with  Stuffing 84 

Balls 90 

Boiled 87 

Broiled 88 

Codfish — Creamed 90 

Crab — Louis 325 

Creamed 88 

Croquettes 88 

Escalloped '. 86 

Fillets 87 

Fried 87 

Lobster  Wiggle 327 

Oysters — Creamed 89 

Fried 89 

Omelet 79 

Panned 89 

Poulette 325 

Scalloped 89-328 

Stew 88 

With  Bacon 89 

Pie 86 

Salt 90 

Sauteed 87 

Shell  Fish 86 

Steamed 87 

FRITTER  BATTER 136 

Banana 139 

Celery 139 

Corn 139 

FROZEN  DESSERTS 292-295 


INDEX  [359] 

FRUIT— FRESH : 38 

Bananas 42 

Cocktail 41-42 

Cocktail  Sauce 42 

Grapefruit — in  Sections 40 

"             to  Remove  Pulp 40 

Melon 41 

"      Cocktail 41 

Orange — in  Sections 40 

"          to  Remove  Pulp 40 

Oranges — Sliced 41 

Peaches — Sliced 41 

Strawberries — au  Naturel 41 

FRUIT— COOKED 276 

Apples 276 

"       Baked 276 

"      Coddled 278 

"      Glazed 277 

"  "       v?ith  Raisins 278 

"      Ginger 277 

"      Jellied 277 

"      Sauce 278 

"       Spiced 318 

Cranberries — Jellied 302 

Prune  Juice 43 

Prunes — Stewed 42 


GAME 104 

Roast  Duck 109 

GARNISHES 44 

GELATINE  DESSERTS 282-285 

GIBLET  SAUCE Ill 

GNOCCHI 126 

GRIDDLE  CAKES 200-202 

GRILLING 18 


HAM,  Baked 101 

Broiled 103 

Fried 103 

Sandwich— Egg 335 

"           Savory 335 

HOLIDAY  DINNERS 320 

Menus 321-322 


[360]  INDEX 

I 

ICE  CREAMS 292-295 

ICINGS— CAKE 240 

INVALID  COOKERY 342 

Beef  Tea 343 

"     Juice 344 

"     Scraped 344 

Bread — Gluten 343 

Broth— Beef 344 

Chicken 344 

"        Mutton 344 

Desserts 345-347 

Blanc  Mange 345 

"  "       Chocolate 346 

"       Fruit 346 

Charlotte  Russe 347 

Custard — Baked 346 

Malted  Milk 345 

Prune 345 

Fruit  Betty 347 

"     Meringue 346 

"     Whip 345 

Junket 260 

Prune  Toast 347 

Snow  Balls 346 

Gruel 343 

Cornmeal 343 

Farina 343 

Oatmeal 343 

J 

JAM 298 

Currants — Bar  le  due 304 

Fig 304 

Gooseberry 304 

Marmalade — Apple 304 

Golden 305 

Orange 305 

"  Pineapple  and  Orange 306 

Plum  Butter 304 

Peach 304 

Raisin  and  Apple  Conserve 305 

Rhubarb 302 

Strawberry 303 

"  Conserve 303 

"  Sunshine 303 

JELLY 298 

Apple 302 

"      Mint 302 

Crabapple 302 


INDEX  [361] 

JELLY — Continued 

Cranberry 302 

Currant 301 

"        and  Raspberry 301 

Grape 301 

Loganberry 301 

Plum 302 

JUNKET 260 

K 

KIDNEY  SAUTE 102 

KISSES 250 

L 

LAMB 99-100 

LEFT-OVERS— Use  of 127 

Chicken  au  Gratin 133 

Chicken  and  Oyster  Pie 132 

Corned  Beef  Hash 131 

Cottage  Pie 131 

Dried  Beef — Creamed 132 

"         "       with  Spaghetti 132 

Fish  au  Gratin 133 

Green  Peppers — Stuffed 132 

Lamb  Curry 131 

Omelets 76-81 

Meat  au  Gratin 133 

"     Pie 132 

"      Pie  Crust 210 

"      Reheating  Roast 131 

"     Scalloped 132 

Pie — Cottage 131 

"      Meat 132 

Rissoles 133 

Sweetbreads — Creamed 133 

Timbales 117 

Tongue — Piquante 133 

LIVER  AND  BACON 103 

LOBSTER 90 

Deviled 90 

Newberg 90 

M 

MACARONI  and  Cheese 122 

Salad 181 

Croquettes 139 

MARMALADE 298 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 173 


[362]  INDEX 

MEASUREMENTS 13 

MEAT 91 

Bacon 103 

Broiled 103 

Fried 103 

Beef,  Au  Gratin 133 

Boiled 97 

Braised 96 

Broiled 94 

Brown  Stew 98 

Casserole 97 

Corned 98 

Dried 132 

Hash — Corned  Beef 131 

Juice 344 

Loaf  Creole 123 

Roast 93 

"       Pot 93 

Steak— Broiled 94 

Broiled  Flank 95 

Pan  Broiled 94 

Planked 95 

Pounded  Round 96 

StufFed 95 

Tongue — Braised 102 

"          Piquante 133 

Ham,  Baked 101 

Broiled 103 

Fried 103 

Kidney  Saut§ 102 

Lamb,  Boiled 99 

Chops — Breaded 100 

Broiled 94 

Curry 131 

Roast 93 

"      Breast 99 

Stew 99 

Liver  and  Bacon 103 

Pork— Shoulder 100 

Tripe 101 

"     Broiled 102 

Veal— Cutlets,  Breaded 100 

Roast 93 

Sweetbreads 101 

Broiled 101 

MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 118 

Baked  Rice  and  Cheese 123 

Boston  Baked  Beans 120 

Cheese  Croquettes 121 

Cheese  Fondu 125 

Corn  Pudding 124 


INDEX  [363] 

MEAT  SUBSTITUTES— Continued 

Farina  Spanish 125 

Gnocchi 126 

Meat  Loaf  Creole 123 

Poached  Eggs — California 124 

Poached  Eggs — Cheese  Sauce 122 

Pink  Beans — Spanish 120 

Polenta 124 

Rice  and  Meat  Loaf 125 

Rissotto — No.  1 121 

"        .  No.  2. 121 

Spaghetti  a  ITtalienne 123 

Stuffed  Peppers 123 

Tamale  Loaf 124 

MENU  BUILDING 25 

MENUS 27 

MERINGUE 224 

for  Pie 224 

for  Pudding 224 

Uncooked 267 

or  Kisses 250 

MINCE  MEAT 224 

MUFFINS 211 


O 

OMELETS 76 

Asparagus  Tip 78 

Banana 81 

Bread 80 

Cheese 78 

Combinations  for 80 

French 80 

Green  Pepper 79 

Ham 79 

How  to  Make 76 

Italian 78 

Jelly 81 

Oyster 79 

Puffy 77 

Spanish 80 

Strawberry 81 

Sweet 81 

Tomato 79 

OVEN  REGULATION 22 

OYSTERS,  Cocktail 51 

Creamed 89 

Fried 89 

Omelet 79 


[364]  INDEX 

OYSTERS— Continued 

Panned 89 

-^J,"i>   Poulette 325 

Scalloped 89-328 

Stew 88 

With  Bacon 89 

P 

PANCAKE— French 204 

PASTRY 216 

Flaky 218 

Plain 218 

PASTRY  DESSERTS 281 

Apple  Roll 281 

Banbury  Tarts 281 

Fruit  Tarts 281 

PEPPERS— Stuffed 123 

PICKLES 315 

Apple  Chutney 318 

Apples — Spiced 318 

Cantaloupe 315 

Chilli  Sauce 317 

Cucumber— Sour 316 

Sweet 317 

Dill.. 318 

Garnish  for 48 

Mustard 318 

Pears — Sweet 316 

Piccalilli 317 

String  Beans 316 

Tomato  Catsup 317 

Watermelon 315 

PIES 216 

Apple 221 

"     Tart 221 

Apricot  Tart 220 

Butterscotch 219 

Custard 221 

Cranberry 222 

Date 222 

Fruit — Canned 224 

Lemon 220 

Meringue  for 224 

Mince  Meat 224 

Orange  Souffle 219 

Pumpkin 220 

and  Nut 222 

Prune 222 

"      Cream '. 223 


INDEX  [365] 

PIES — Continued 

Raisin 223 

Rhubarb 223 

Squash 220 

Strawberry  Tart 221 

POLENTA 124 

POPOVERS 211 

POTATOES 152 

Baked 152 

"      with  Sausage 156 

Balls 153 

Boiled  for  Mashing 152 

Casserole 154 

Creamed  with  Eggs 157 

Quick 157 

Duchess 153 

Escalloped 156 

"          with  Bacon 155 

Franconia 153 

French  Fried 153 

Glazed 156 

In  Half  Shell 155 

Lyonnaise 157 

O'Brien 156 

Pancake 156 

Puff^ 153 

Souffle 156 

Steamed 153 

Stuffed  with  Ham 155 

Sweet 157 

Boiled 157 

Candied 158 

Carameled 158 

Cones 158 

Glazed 158 

Mashed 158 

Steamed 157 

POULTRY 104 

POULTRY  DRESSING 110 

Bread 110 

Celery 110 

Chestnut 110 

Oyster 110 

Prune 110 

PUDDINGS 267 

Apricot 267 

Souffle 260 

Blanc  Mange 264 

"     Chocolate 264 


[366]  INDEX 

PUDDINGS— Continued 

Blanc  Mange,  Orange 264 

«  "       Pineapple 264 

Bread 271 

and  Butter 275 

Brown  Betty 274 

Butterscotch 273 

Caramel 274 

Chocolate 274 

Cocoanut 273 

Custard 273 

Fruit 274 

Maple. 274 

Variations  of 271 

Cabinet 267 

Cake 257 

Carrot 269 

Cereal 263 

Chocolate 270 

"         Supreme 265 

Cornstarch 264 

Cottage 269 

Custard 256-259 

Date 265 

Fruit 270 

Cobbler 267 

Cup 267 

Custard  Sauce 259 

Supreme 266 

Indian 271 

Junket 260 

Peach 267 

Pears — Stuffed 267 

Plum 269 

Prune  Whip 260 

Prunes — Delmonico 266 

Puffs 271 

Raisins  and  Bananas 266 

Rice 261 

Butterscotch 285 

Cakes — Sweet 262 

Custard 261 

Dainty 290 

Fruit 262 

Molded 261 

Steamed 268 

Shortcake — Old  Fashioned 279 

"  Sweet 268 

Tapioca — Cream 262 

Fig 262 

Thanksgiving 265 


INDEX  [367] 

R 

RADISHES— for  Garnish 48 

RELISHES 315 

RICE 68 

Boiled 68 

"      Oriental  Method 69 

Butterscotch 285 

Cakes — Sweet 262 

Custard 261 

Dainty 290 

Fruit 262 

Molded 261 

ROAST  MEAT 93 

ROASTING 17 

ROLLS 189 

Cinnamon 193 

Clover  Leaf 189 

Dinner 189 

Entire  Wheat 189 

Graham 190 

Hot  Cross 194 

Lady  Finger 189 

Parker  House 188 

Rusk 194 

Sweet 193 

Tea 189 

Rye 191 

S 

SALAD,  COMBINATIONS 183-184 

SALADS,  for  Each  Day  in  the  Week 171 

SALADS,  Value  in  the  Diet 168 

SALADS,  Beets,  StufFed 180 

California 179 

Casaba  Melon 325 

Celery— StufFed 182 

Cheese  and  Pineapple 325 

Cucumber  and  Pimento 179 

Fruit 180 

"     and  Celery 180 

Macaroni 181 

Orange 180 

.  "       Jelly 180 

Pimento  and  Cheese 178 

Potato 181 

Prune  and  Cottage  Cheese 182 

Tomato  Jelly 181 

"        and  Spinach 178 

Stuffed  No.  1 178 


[368]  INDEX 

SALADS — Continued 

Tomato  Stuffed  No.  2 179 

"       No.  3 179 

Waldorf 178 

Watermelon 181 

SALAD  DRESSINGS 168 

Chantilly 173 

Cheese — Cream 174 

"         Roquefort 175 

Cooked 176 

Cream 176 

French 174 

Fruit. 176 

Horseradish 175 

Italian 175 

Louis — Plain 176 

Rich 173 

Mayonnaise 173 

Parisian 175 

Pepper — Green 174 

Pineapple 177 

Russian 174 

Vinaigrette 175 

SANDWICHES 333 

Bacon 335 

California 335 

Caviare 336 

Cheese 336 

Cheese  and  Walnut 336 

Egg 335 

Fig 336 

Ham  and  Egg 335 

Noisette 335 

Olive 333 

Olive  and  Cheese 335 

Pimento  and  Cheese 335 

Prune 336 

Sardine 336 

Savory  Ham 335 

Shell  Fish 86 

SAUCE,  Louis  Cocktail  No.  1 51 

No.  2 51 

SAUCES 159 

Savory 161 

Allemande 161 

Bechamel 162 

Bread 163 

Brown 163 

Caper 162 

Celery 161 


INDEX  [369] 

SAUCES— Continued 

Cheese 161 

Cream 161 

Cream  Curry 163 

Drawn  Butter 162 

Egg 161 

Giblet. . Ill 

Horseradish 163 

Mint 164 

Mustard— Hot 164 

Cold 164 

Onion 161 

Paprika 164 

Piquante 163 

Poulette 162 

Savory 159 

Tartare — Hot 162 

Cold 165 

White 160 

Fish 164 

Anchovy 164 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter 164 

Mock  Hollandaise 165 

Meuniere 165 

Oyster 165 

Shrimp 165 

Tartare— Cold 165 

Hot 162 

Sweet 165 

Apricot 167 

Chocolate — Hot 166 

"            Sultana 166 

Custard 167 

Foamy 166 

Fruit 167 

Hard 166 

Marshmallow 165 

Nutmeg 167 

Orange 167 

Sabayon 166 

Strawberry 166 

Vanilla 167 

SHORTCAKE,  Camp 332 

Old  Fashioned 279 

Sweet 268 

SIMMERING 16 

SOUFFLfiS 114 

Asparagus 116 

Carrot 116 

Chicken 115 


[370]  INDEX 

SOUFFLES— Continued 

Fish 115 

Ham 115 

Potato 116 

Spinach 116 

SOUP 54 

Broth — Chicken 3 

Beef 3 

"        Mutton 3 

Brown — Stock 58 

Chowder — Clam 62 

"           Corn 62 

Fish 62 

Consomme 60 

Cream — Foundation  Recipe 60 

"         Tomato 61 

Creole 59 

Emergency 60 

Julienne 59 

Mulligatawny 58 

Onion 59 

"      and  Potato 62 

Oxtail 59 

Split  Pea 61 

Without  Stock 57 

SPAGHETTI  A  LTTALIENNE 123 

SUPPERS— Suggestions  for 323 

SWEETBREADS 101 

Broiled 101 

T 

TAMALE  LOAF 124 

TEA — Composition  of 32 

TIMBALE,  Cases 136 

Savory 117 

Vegetable 117 

TOAST 196 

French 196 

Milk 196 

TONGUE,  Braised 102 

Piquante 133 

TRIPE 101 

Broiled 102 

Fried  in  Batter 139 

TURKEY 104 

Braised 107 

Roast 106 

TWICE-COOKED  MEAT 130 


INDEX  [371] 

V 

VEAL 93-100 

VEGETABLES,  How  to  Cook 142 

Artichokes 145 

Asparagus,  Au  Gratin 145 

Boiled 145 

In  Milk 145 

Ring 116 

Shortcake 145 

Beans — Boston  Baked 120 

Pink  Spanish 120-150 

Beets — Buttered 146 

Cabbage,  Boiled 149 

Creamed 148 

Dainty 149 

Hotslaw 149 

Quick 147 

Canned — Reheating 142 

Carrots — Creamed 151 

Glace 146 

Ring... 116 

Celery — Au  Gratin 147 

In  White  Sauce 151 

Corn — Custard 146 

"       Green 154 

Pudding 124 

Egg  Plant — Fried 147 

Kohl-Rabi 154 

Onions — French  Fried 154 

"         Peanut  Butter 147 

"         Scalloped 146 

Parsnip  Cakes 148 

Peas — Green 146 

Maitre  d'Hotel ISO 

Peppers — Green 132 

"      Stuffed 149 

Spinach — Boiled 148 

Creamed 148-150 

Sprouts — Brussels 149 

Squash — Baked  Cream 148 

"          Summer 154 

"          Steamed 148 

Succotash 146 

To  Render  Crisp 48 

Tomatoes — Stuffed 150 

Turnips — Diced 147 

Scalloped 152 

Stuffed 151 

VEGETABLES— Canning 307 


[372]  INDEX 


W 

WAFFLES 200-204 

WHIPPED  CREAM  DESSERTS 282-285 

Y 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING 94 


IN  all  recipes  calling 
for  baking  powder, 
insure  successful  re- 
sults by  using  Royal 
Baking  Powder  (abso- 
lutely pure). 

It  is  conceded  by  do- 
mestic science  teacher^ 
and  baking  experts  the 
world  over  to  be  "the 
most  healthful  and 
dependable  baking 
powder  made."  Royal 
contains  no  alum. 


It  answers 


HOCOUTE 


purpose 


Knowing  Ghirardelli's  Ground 
Chocolate  as  I  do,  it  is  hard 
for  me  to  understand  why  any 
housewife  will  crowd  her 
pantry  with  cake  chocolate 
for  baking  and  cooking,  and 
cocoa  for  drinking,  when 
Ghirardelli's  serves  tyery  pur- 
pose. 

Not  only  does  this  chocolate 
make  a  flavory  and  nutritive 
breakfast-drink  but  it  answers 
every  need  for  baking  and 
dessert  making.  Cakes,  pud- 
dings, icings,  frozen  desserts, 
sauces — you  can  call  on  Ghir- 
ardelli's for  a  host  of  dishes, 
dainty  and  substantial. 

Moreover,  Ghirardelli's  comes 
to  you  already  ground,  ready 
to  use.  No  grating,  no  bother, 
no  time  lost-  And  no  waste! 
You  measure  off  exactly  what 
you  need  —  no  more,  no  less. 
Indeed,  Ghirardelli's  is  every- 
thing you  need  in  chocolate 
—everything  in  one! 


ghirardelli's 

{^MW^CHOCOLATE 


Now  It's  So 

SIMPLE 

CERTAIN 

CONVENIENT 

TO     BAKE     A     GOOD     PIE     WITH    A 

CRISP  FLAKY   CRUST 
Use 


BakeRite 


(PIE  BLENDE 


l\  prepared  pie  crust  flour  containing 
all  necessary  ingredients  to  make  pie 
baking  a  pleasure.  Just  add  water, 
thats  all.  Mix  and  roll  out.  Then 
your  pies  are  ready  to  bake. 

Ask  Your  Grocer 

PREPARED  BY 

Bake-Rite  Food  Products  Company 

San  Francisco        Oakland 
Portland  Los  Angeles 


Telephones : 

San  Francisco 
Sutter  6654 

Oakland 
Oakland  1017 

Fresno 
Fresno  2020 

Los  Angeles 
South  1970 

Portland 
East  7054 

Seattle 
Main  4271 

Tacoma 
Main  3414 


1,800,000  cups  were  served 
at  the  Panama-Pacific 
International  Exposition. 


There  are  Caswell  representatives 

in  practically  every    Pacific  coast 

community. 


Mrs.  Belle  de  Graf-- 

noted  cooking  authority 
and  culinary  expert 
invariably  uses  a 


WMMMm 


c^ 


■vjx- 


RANGE 

to  test  and  prove  her 
famous  recipes.  We 
could  not  ask  for  nor 
receive  any  higher 
recommendation 
than  this. 


Jas.  Graham  Mfg.  Co. 

SAN  FRANCISCO 


ALL  MODELS  AT  YOUR   DEALERS 


Qfc  key  to  belter  meals 
in  every  home 


A, 


Jter  all,  successful  menus  de- 
pend as  much  upon  the  quality  of 
the  ingredients  as  upon  the  skill 
and  knowledge  of  the  housewife. 

Even  the  most  ingenious  cook 
cannot  produce  fine  cakes,  pies  or 
breads  from  poor  materials.  In 
all  my  years  of  experience,  I  have 
had  unusual  opportunity  to  test 
Sperry  Products  thoroughly — in 
the  class  room,  in  the  laboratory, 
in  the  kitchen.  As  a  result,  I  can 
conscientiously  recommend  them 
all  as  the  highest  quality.  Sperry 
Drifted  Snow  Flour  can  be  used 
for  every  purpose — from  the  per- 
fect loaf  of  bread  to  the  most  deli- 
cate Angel  Cake.  While  Sperry 
Red  Package  Cereals  carry  the  same 
surety  of  purity  and  uniformity. 

—  Belle  DeGraf 


l^^PUS] 


SPERRY 


Sperry  Products 


'^y%-m',-4yM^Kmm 


A.  PALADINI,inc. 

FRESH,  SALT,  SMOKED 
PICKLED  and  DRIED 

. .  FISH. . 

MAIN  OFFICE 

540    Clay   Street,  San  Francisco 

BRANCHES 

g83  Market  St.,  San  Francisco    520  Washington  St.,  Oakland 
Monterey,  California 

Celebrated  for  Sliced  and  Prepared  Ahalones 
Various  JVays  of  Preparing  this  Appetizing  Seafood 

FRIED  ABALONE  STEAKS 

Sprinkle  abalone  steaks  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat 

1  egg  slightly.  Dip  steaks  in  egg,  then  roll  in  flour  or 
cracker  meal.  Fry  in  hot  olive  oil  or  butter  until  a 
delicate  brown  on  both  sides.  Cook  quickly,  as  long 
cooking  toughens  abalone. 

ABALONE  CHOWDER 

Cut  1  pound  of  abalone  into  half-inch  cubes.  Cut  1 
slice  of  salt  pork  into  several  pieces,  place  in  a  deep 
kettle  and  cook  until  slightly  brown.  Add  1  onion 
sliced  thin  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add  2  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  abalone,  2  medium-sized  potatoes  peeled  and  cut 
in  cubes,  a  pinch  of  thyme  and  a  bay  leaf.  Simmer  30 
minutes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  just  before  serv- 
ing add  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  cream. 

ABALONE  FRITTERS 

Put  1  pound  of  abalone  through  a  food  chopper.  Sift 
together  1  cup  of  flour,  3^  teaspoon  salt  and  1  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder.  Add  abalone  and  mix  well,  then  add 

2  well-beaten  eggs.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  deep  fat 
or  fry  in  a  well-buttered  pan  like  pancakes. 

ABALONE  SALAD 

Cut  1  pound  of  abalone  into  half-inch  cubes.  Simmer 
in  salted  hot  water  until  tender.  Drain  and  chill.  Add  1 
cup  of  diced  celery  hearts  and  2  tablespoons  grated 
onion.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves. 


Mrs.  DeGraf's  Endorsement 

of 

Goldberg  ^owen  &  Company 


<J>/2l 


LL  my  life  I  have  purchased  fine  food 
products  of  Goldberg  Bowen  &  Company, 
whether  for  household  or  experimental  use. 
Materials  from  this  store  were  used  in  ex- 
periments which  have  resulted  in  many  of 
the  productions  of  which  the  recipes  are 
contained  in  this  book.  My  habit  of  going  to 
this  oldest  grocery  house  in  San  Francisco 
has  been  confirmed  with  every  experience, 
because  I  have  always  found  everything  I 
have  purchased  there  to  be  of  high  quality. 
In  some  instances,  also,  when  I  have  had 
some  doubt  what  product  or  ingredient  it 
might  be  best  to  use,  I  have  depended  on 
Goldberg  Bowen's  advice  and  have  always 
found  such  guidance  most  helpful  and  de- 
pendable. Moreover,  the  stock  is  so  immense 
and  of  such  infinite  variety  that  long  ago  I 
learned  to  think  of  Goldberg  Bowen  & 
Company  whenever  I  have  needed  anything 
unusual,  any  article  out  of  the  ordinary,  any 
special  item  seldom  carried  by  grocers,  and 
never  have  I  been  disappointed  in  finding 
what  I  sought.  That  is  why  I  today  con- 
tinue to  rely  on  Goldberg  Bowen  &  Company 
for  all  of  my  finer  materials  and  supplies. 

Belle  DeGraf. 


y 


