; 


. 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 


THE  GASTRONOMY  COLLECTION  OF 
GEORGE  HOLL 

AGRIC. 
LIBRARY 


TIME  TABLES 


BOTLING 

Beef,  fresh per  lb.,        30  min. 

Beef,  corned "     "  25-30  " 

Mutton "     "  15  " 

Ham.... "    "  20-30  " 

Chicken "     "  15  " 

Turkey "     "  15  " 

Fowl "     "  20-30  " 

Halibut "    "  20  " 

Salmon... "    "  20  " 

Bluefish  and  Bass.    «c     "  15  " 

Small  Fish..          .    "    "  10  " 


BROILING 

Steak,  1  inch  thick 5-8  min. 

Steak,  iy2  inches  thick. . . .    8-15  " 

Steak,  2  inches  thick 15-20  " 

Mutton  Chops 8-10  " 

Chicken 20-30  " 

Quail 8-10  " 

Squabs 10-15  " 

Fish,  thick 15-25  " 

Fish.,  thin..  ..10-15  " 


BAKING 

Bread 45-60  min. 

Biscuits  and  Rolls 10-20    " 

Gems 15-25     " 

Boston  Brown  Bread 3  hrs. 

Corn  Bread 30  min. 

Gingerbread 20-30    " 

Sponge  Cake 15-60    " 

Plain  Cake 30-60    " 

Fruit  Cake 2-3  hrs. 

Cookies 10-15  min. 

Small  Cakes. 15-20     " 

Pies..  ,.30-45     " 


ROASTING  or  BAKING 

Beef,  rare per  lb.,    8-10  min. 

Beef,  well  done "     "          15  " 

Beef,  fillet entire  time,  40-60     " 

Veal per  lb.,  25-30  min. 

Lamb "     "          15  " 

Mutton "     "    10-15  " 

Pork "     "         30  " 

Venisoa "     "          15  " 

Chicken "     "          15  " 

Fowl "     "   20-30  " 

Duck,  tame. .  .entire  time,  40-60  " 

Duck,  wild....     "         "       15-30  " 

Goose per  lb.,        18  min. 

Turkey "     "          15  " 

Partridges. . .  .entire  time,  30-40  " 

Pigeons "         "            30  " 

Small  birds. . .     "        "       10-15  " 

Large  fish,...     "        "            60  " 

Small  fish. .           "         "      20-30  " 


VEGETABLES 

Asparagus 15-30  min. 

Beet  greens 30-60  " 

Beets 1-4  hrs. 

Brussels  Sprouts 15-20  min. 

Cabbage 25-60  " 

Carrots 60-90  " 

Cauliflower 20-30  " 

Celery 20-30  " 

Corn 10-20  « 

Dandeh'ons 60  " 

Kale 30-50  " 

Lettuce 10-1 5  " 

Lima  beans 45-60  " 

Onions 30-60  " 

Parsnips 35-5o  " 

Peas 20-60  " 

Potatoes,  sweet 15-25  " 

Potatoes,  white 20-35    " 

Salsify 30  " 

Spinach 20-30  « 

Squash 30  " 

String  beans 60-90  ' 

Tomatoes 20-30  " 

Turnips 1-3  hrs. 


7s  a  Matter  of  Only  a  Few  Seconds  to  Insert  Pages 
MRS.  FRYER'S  LOOSE-LEAF  COOK  BOOK 


L 


\\ 


m     2 


a.  Take  out  screws. 

b.  Turn  to  the  end  of  the  pages  of  writing  paper  in  the  front  of  the  book — take  out  one 
jr  more  leaves  that  you  may  wish  to  use  (Illustration    No.    1) — put    the  balance  back  in 
place.    The  leaves  taken  out  can  be  written  upon  separate  from  the  Cook  Book  *f  desired. 

c.  Turn  to  the  place  in  Cook  Book  where  you  want  to  insert  the  leaf  (Illustration  No.  2) 
and  lift  the  upper  portion  from  the  screw  posts.    These  pages  containing  personal  recipes 
or  memoranda  can  be  inserted  between  the  printed  pages  of  the  Cook  Book  under  the  sub- 
ject to  which  it  refers. 


d.     Insert  the  sheet  of  writing  paper  on  the  screw  posts  (Illustration  No.  3).     It  will  be 
seen  that  the  pages  cannot  scatter  and  that  all  the  pages  are  held  in  alignment. 


e.  Replace  the  upper  portion  of  the  book  (Illustration  No.  4).    As  the  leaves  are  all  held 
in  alignment,  they  readily  slip  into  place. 

f.  As  the  screws  extend  a  trifle   beyond   the   metal    strip   in  the    hinder,   a  rub  of   the 
thumb  on  the  milled  edge  puts  the  screws  securely  in  place  (Illustration  No.  5).     The  pages 
are  then  locked  tight  and  cannot  tear  out. 

Pages  in  addition  to  those  furnished  with  the  Cook  Book  can  be  added.  The  binder  pro- 
vides for  extension  and  so  long  as  the  screws  are  tight  the  pages  will  always  be  locked  tight. 

Additional  writing  paper  leaves  in  packages  of  50  sheets  and  punched  ready  for  use  can 
be  obtained  from  booksellers  or  the  publishers  at  25  cents  per  package. 


IE    COLORED    SHEET 


FOLLOWING    THE    BLANK    LEAVES    MARKS    WHERE 
COOK    BOOK    BEGINS 


MRS.  FRYER'S 
LOOSE-LEAF 

COOK   BOOK 

A  COMPLETE  COOK  BOOK  GIVING  ECONOM- 
ICAL RECIPES  PLANNED  TO  MEET  THE 
NEEDS  OF  THE  MODERN  HOUSEKEEPER 

INCLUDING    CHAPTERS    ON 

BALANCED  RATIONS 

ENTERTAINING  SCHOOL  LUNCHES 

DIET  FOR  WEIGHT  CONTROL,  ETC. 

ARRANGED    BY 

JANE  EAYRE  FRYER 

INSTRUCTOR   OF    DOMESTIC    SCIENCE 
Author  of  The  Mary  Frances  Story-Instruction  Books 

WITH  BLANK  PAGES  FOR  PRESERVING  PERSONAL  .RECIPES 
AND  MEMORANDA,  WHICH  CAN  BE  INSERTED  IN  ANY  PART 
OF  THE  BOOK  UNDER  ^HE  SUBJECTS  TO  WHICH  THEY  REFER 

JUmtratri 


THE  JOHN  C.WINSTON  COMPANY 

CHICAGO  PHILADELPHIA  TORONTO 


. 


Copyright,  1922,  by 
THE  JOHN  C.  WINSTON  COMPANY 

PRINTED  IN   U.  8.  A. 


AGRfC. 
LIBRARY 


THE  HOUSEWIFE 

Strength  and  honor  are  her  clothing; 
And  she  shall  rejoice  in  time  to  come. 

She  openeth  her  mouth  with  wisdom; 
And  in  her  tongue  is  the  law  of  kindness. 

She  looketh  well  to  the  ways  of  her  household, 
And  eateth  not  the  bread  of  idleness. 

Her  children  arise  up,  and  call  her  blessed; 
Her  husband  also,  and  he  praiseth  her,  saying: 

Many  daughters  have  done  virtuously, 
But  thou  excellest  them  all. 

—PROVERBS  XXXI,  25-29. 


(Hi) 


M861500 


COOKING  means  the  knowledge  of  Medea,  and  of  Circe,  and 
of  Calypso,  and  of  Helen,  and  of  Rebekah,  and  of  the  Queen 
of  Sheba.  It  means  the  knowledge  of  all  herbs,  and  fruits,  and 
balms,  and  spices;  and  of  all  that  is  healing  and  sweet  in  fields 
and  groves,  and  savory  in  meats;  it  means  carefulness,  and  invent- 
iveness, and  watchfulness,  and  willingness,  and  readiness  of  appli- 
ance; it  means  the  economy  of  your  great-grandmothers  and  the 
science  of  modern  chemists;  it  means  much  tasting,  and  no  wasting; 
it  means  English  thoroughness,  and  French  art,  and  Arabian 
hospitality;  it  means,  in  fine,  that  you  are  to  be  perfectly  and 
always,  ladies  (loaf  givers);  and,  as  you  are  to  see,  imperatively, 
that  everybody  has  something  pretty  to  put  on,  so  you  are  to  see, 
yet  more  imperatively,  that  everybody  has  something  good  to  eat. 

— RUSKIN  :  Ethics  of  the  Dust. 


PREFACE 

lively  and  intense  interest  now  displayed  everywhere  in 
the  art  of  cookery,  which  is  at  once  the  most  ancient  and 
the  most  modern  of  the  arts,  marks  such  an  advance  over  the 
pioneer  days  of  domestic  science  as  only  a  teacher  of  that  subject, 
or  an  experienced  housekeeper  who  has  kept  step  with  the  march 
of  progress,  can  fully  appreciate.  The  increasing  knowledge  of 
food  materials  and  the  work  they  perform  in  the  body,  the  constant 
study  of  the  principles  of  nutrition  and  of  the  causes  of  malnutri- 
tion, the  many  inventions  and  labor-saving  devices  of  the  present- 
day  kitchen,  the  eagerness  to  try  new  methods  and  the  willingness 
to  adopt  them  when  proved  to  be  better,  the  desire  to  work  with 
intelligence  rather  than  by  "the  rule  of  thumb" — all  these  are 
signs  of  the  times  indicating  that  domestic  science  is  assuming  an 
importance  in  our  social  fabric  which  augurs  well  for  the  future 
health  and  happiness  of  the  American  home.  For  those  who  wish 
to  understand  the  "whys"  of  cookery — and  who  does  not? — it  is 
believed  that  the  chapters  in  this  book  treating  of  the  principles 
of  cookery,  the  balanced  ration,  diet  for  weight  control,  school 
lunches,  and  kindred  topics,  will  be  found  especially  helpful. 

As  to  the  recipes  themselves,  they  have  stood  the  tests  of  experi- 
ment and  experience,  and  unless  too  many  liberties  are  taken  with 
them,  they  will  bring  the  success  every  cook  desires.  They  are  as 
economical  as  consistent  with  wise  selection  and  the  variety  which 
is  the  spice  of  appetite;  and  are  planned  for  a  family  of  four, 
because  four  seems  to  be  the  average  number  today.  They  can 
readily  be  divided  by  two  for  a  family  of  two;  multiplied  by  three- 
fourths  for  a  family  of  three;  multiplied  by  one-and-a-half  for  a 
family  of  six;  or  doubled  for  a  family  of  eight.  Some  articles, 
like  cakes,  will  serve  more  than  four,  but  they  will  keep  for  several 
days,  and  are  better  made  by  the  four-in-family  measure. 

(V)  Irf, 


PREFACE 

Every  home-loving  woman  loves  new  recipes,  and  gathers  them 
from  all  sources,  begging  them  from  friends,  clipping  them  from 
magazines  and  newspapers,  and  pigeon-holing  them  in  her  kitchen 
cabinet  or  her  desk  for  future  use — too  often  having  the  vexatious 
experience  of  being  imable  to  trace  their  whereabouts  when 
wanted;  or  she  places  them  between  the  pages  of  her  cook  book, 
until  the  overstrained  binding,  having  reached  the  limit  of  endur- 
ance, bursts,  and — but  who  need  be  told?  The  Invisible  Loose- 
Leaf  Binding  Device  has  made  the  Loose-Leaf  Cook  Book  possible, 
and  it  brings  to  you  a  method  of  keeping  your  cook  book  up  to  date. 
As  the  binding  device  admits  of  extension,  memoranda  and  per- 
sonal recipes  can  be  added  at  pleasure,  so  that  your  cook  book 
will  become  increasingly  valuable  as  a  record  of  your  own  house- 
keeping experience. 

Acknowledgment  is  here  made  of  the  able  assistance  of  Miss 
Helen  Cramp,  and  of  Miss  Ada  Z.  Fish,  in  the  preparation  of 
the  recipes;  and  of  the  kindness  of  other  friends  who  have  con- 
tributed their  favorite  recipes;  especially  of  the  courtesy  of  The 
Ladies'  Home  Journal  for  the  use  of  illustrations  which  originally 
appeared  in  the  pages  of  that  magazine.  The  data  and  tables 
in  regard  to  food  values  in  this  book  are  based  chiefly  on  material 
furnished  by  the  very  helpful  and  instructive  publications  issued 
from  time  to  time  by  the  United  States  Government. 


(vi) 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKERY 1 

The  Human  Engine— Food  as  Fuel;  Other  Uses— Wise 
Selection  of  Foods — Table  of  Food  Nutrients — Purpose 
of  Cooking — Different  Methods  of  Cooking — Market- 
ing and  Economy. 

ENTERTAINING 9 

Invitations — The  Formal  Dinner  Party — Introductions 
— Seating  the  Guests — Menu-Making — Menus  for 
Different  Occasions — Hints  on  Serving — The  Informal 
Dinner — Afternoon  Tea — The  Evening  Collation. 

APPETIZERS 21 

Their  Place  and  Purpose. 

SOUPS 27 

Food  Values — Soup  Stocks:  Meat,  Vegetable,  Cream — 
Chowders — Soup  Accompaniments. 

FISH 43 

Nutritive  Value — General  Classification — How  to  Clean. 

MEATS 55 

Food  Values — Methods  of  Cooking — Kinds  and  Cuts: 
Beef,  Veal,  Mutton,  Pork — Combinations  for  Menu- 
Making. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME 81 

Value  as  Food— How  to  Select— To  Dress  Poultry- 
Remarks  on  Game. 

FORCEMEATS,  STUFFINGS,  ETC 91 

Their  Uses. 

SAUCES 97 

Why  Valuable — "Roux,"  or  Foundation — Suitable  Sauces 
to  Serve  with  Meat,  Fish,  Vegetables. 

(vii)  I«-L 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

EGGS 107 

High  Food  Value — Principle  of  Cooking  Albumen. 

MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 117 

Reasons  for  Lessening  the  Use  of  Meats — Protein  Needs 
of  the  Body — Dinner  Menus  Without  Meat. 

LEFT-OVERS 129 

Their  Use  and  Economy. 

VEGETABLES 135 

Classification  and  Food  Values. 

ENTREES 157 

Their  Economy  and  Attractiveness. 

SALADS V'L. •;?:,: 165 

Their  Hygienic  Value — Flavored  Vinegars. 

PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS. .  :[:'«£'' 179 

The  Right  Selection. 

FROZEN   DESSERTS 201 

Directions  for  Freezing. 

SWEET  SAUCES ; . . . .......  ,%.;v. . .  213 

Ways  to  Use. 

BREAD,  HOT  CAKES,  ETC 219 

Bread-Making — How  to  Select  Flour — Yeast  Breads — 
General  Directions — Kneading — Patent  Mixers — Baking, 
Oven  Temperature — Action  of  Yeast — Action  of  Baking 
Powder — Quick  Bread — Hot  Cakes — Recipe  Proportions. 

CAKES IS 251 

General  Classes:  Sponge  or  Butterless;  Butter  Cakes — 
Mixing — Baking — Frostings,  Plain  and  Ornamental — 
Use  of  Pastry  Bag  Illustrated. 

PASTRY  AND  PIES 275 

Remarks  on  Digestibility — Baking — Puff-Paste — Half 
Puff-Paste—Plain  Paste. 

(viii)  L-L 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

SANDWICHES  AND   SAVORIES 285 

Their  Varied  Uses. 

CEREALS 293 

Their  Place  in  the  Diet — Methods  of  Preparing. 

CANDY 299 

Its  Use  and  Abuse — Foundation  Fondant. 

FRUIT 309 

Dietetic  Value. 

CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 315 

Principles  Involved— The  Cold-Pack  Method— Hot- 
Water  Bath— Water-Seal— Steam  Pressure— Utensils- 
Preparation — Definition  of  Terms — Blanching — Cold 
Dipping — Packing — Processi  ng — Vegetables — Fruits — 
Syrups — Time  Table  for  Blanching  and  Sterilizing — 
Open  Kettle  Method — General  Directions — Preserving 
Fruit — Jelly-Making — Marmalade. 

PICKLES  AND   CATSUPS ..  337 

Their  Purpose. 

BEVERAGES 343 

Coffee,  Tea,  Cocoa:  Their  Physiological  Effect— Coffee 
Substitutes — Fruit  Drinks. 

INVALID   COOKERY 351 

Rules  to  Remember. 

FIRELESS  COOKERY 361 

A  Boon  to  the  Housewife — Scientific  Principles — Differ- 
ent Kinds  of  Equipment — Plain  Cookers — Steam  Pres- 
sure— The  Automatic  Electric  Oven. 

CHAFING-DISH   COOKERY 395 

Different  Kinds  of  Chafing  Dishes — Electric  Equipment. 

CASSEROLE   COOKERY 407 

A  Word  about  French  Cooking — Advantages  of  Using — 
Different  Kinds. 

(ix)  L-L 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

SIMPLE  MENUS  FOR  A  WEEK'S  MEALS 414,  432 

BALANCED  RATIONS. 415 

Principles  of  Nutrition — Calories — Food  Groups  and 
their  Uses — Vitamins — Daily  Energy  Requirement — 
Table  of  Daily  and  Weekly  Energy  Needs— A  Week's 
Food  Supply — How  to  Estimate  Food  Values — Rules 
for  Balancing  Diet — A  Week's  Menu — Hundred-Calorie 
Portions  in  Common  Foods. 

DIET   FOR   WEIGHT   CONTROL ..  435 

Causes  of  Overweight — Curing  One's  Self — Foods  to 
Avoid — What  to  Eat — Exercise.  How  to  Add  Weight — 
Foods  to  Avoid— What  to  Eat— Rest— Tables  of  Height, 
Weight,  Age. 

SCHOOL  LUNCHES 443 

Diet  for  the  School  Child — Staple  Requirements — Des- 
serts— Home  Lunches — Basket  Lunches — The  School 
Lunch  Room:  Bills  of  Fare — Tables  of  Height,  WTeight, 
Age. 

TIME   TABLES   FOR   COOKING (Inside  front  cover) 

WEIGHTS  AND   MEASURES (Inside  back  cover) 

INDEX  !   453 


(x) 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  AFTERNOON  TEA  (Color  Plate) ....  Frontispiece 

PAGE 

PROPER  ARRANGEMENT  OF  TABLE 14 

BUFFET  SUPPER  FOR  AN  EVENING  COMPANY  (Color  Plate) .  .     20 

SOLE,  COD,  FLOUNDER 48 

How  TO  SPLIT  AND  DRESS  LOBSTER 52 

CARVING  (BEEF) 62 

CARVING  (MUTTON) 74 

LEFT-OVERS 132 

ENTREES 162 

BANANA  DAINTY,  ALMONDS  WITH  EGGS 190 

RAISED  WITH  COMPRESSED  YEAST 224 

.FRESH  FROM  THE  OVEN  (Color  Plate) 234 

How  TO  USE  A  PASTRY  TUBE 272 

How  TO  MAKE  PASTRY 282 

A  WELL-EQUIPPED  KITCHEN  (Color  Plate) 314 

FIRELESS    COOKER    AND    DISHES    PREPARED    BY    FIRELESS 

METHOD 370 

DAINTY  LUNCHEON  EN  CASSEROLE 410 

A  WEEK'S  SUPPLY  OF  MILK,  MEAT  AND  SIMILAR  FOODS  FOR 

AN  AVERAGE  FAMILY 426 

A  WEEK'S  SUPPLY  OF  FATS  AND  FAT  FOODS  FOR  AN  AVERAGE 

FAMILY , 426 

A  WEEK'S  SUPPLY  OF  CEREAL  FOODS  FOR  AN  AVERAGE  FAMILY  428 
A  WEEK'S  SUPPLY  OF  SUGAR  AND  OTHER  SWEETS  FOR  AN 

AVERAGE  FAMILY 428 

A  WEEK'S  SUPPLY  OF  VEGETABLES  AND  FRUITS  FOR  AN  AVER- 
AGE FAMILY 432 

COUNTING  THE  COST  OF  A  WEEK'S  FOOD  SUPPLY 432 


PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKERY 


I/-L 


The  knowledge  of  science  which  is  attainable  by  mere  reading, 
though  infinitely  better  than  ignorance,  is  knowledge  of  a  very  differ- 
ent kind  from  that  which  arises  from  direct  contact  with  fact. 

— HUXLEY. 

YH3HOOD  1()  «  Kiv 

The  cook  holds  the  balance  of  power,  and  ofttimes  sways  destinies: 
the  overthrow  of  Grease,  the  downfall  of  China,  the  dividing  of  Turkey 
— what  cook  has  not  accomplished  all  of  these  in  one  short  lifetime? 

— Fables  of  a  Rolling -Pin. 


PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKERY 

IN  the  days  of  our  grandmothers,  a  woman  who  knew  how  to 
tempt  the  appetite  with  the  richest  and  newest  viands  was 
accounted  a  good  cook;  but  today  the  cook  who  deserves  such  a 
happy  title  must  not  only  know  how  to  appeal  to  the  appetite, 
she  must  also  understand  what  the  human  body  needs,  what  foods 
are  best  adapted  to  its  use,  and  how  to  prepare  these  foods  in 
kind  and  quantity  to  meet  its  requirements. 

The  cook  who  understands  these  things  and  does  them  is  entitled 
to  be  called  a  good  cook  in  the  truest  sense  of  the  term.  She 
realizes  that  health  depends  upon  the  food  eaten,  and  that  upon 
her  shoulders,  or  rather  in  her  hands,  rests  the  welfare  of  her 
family  and  the  nation;  and  she  willingly  assumes  this  Responsi- 
bility, knowing  well  what  she  is  about. 

A  serious  matter  then,  is  the  planning  of  a  day's  meals;  and 
scientists,  realizing  its  importance,  have  in  recent  years  devoted 
many  hours  of  study  and  experiment  to  the  principles  of  nutrition 
and  nutritive  food  values. 

The  Human  Engine. — The  body  has  often  been  called  a  living 
engine,  for  it  performs  work  and  generates  power.  In  other 
words,  it  is  a  living  machine.  All  engines  are  run  by  the  use  of 
some  kind  of  fuel.  Coal,  wood,  gasoline  and  other  substances  are 
constantly  fed  to  mechanical  engines.  Each  type  requires  its 
own  particular  kind  of  fuel.  In  order  to  do  its  work  properly, 
the  human  engine  requires  the  right  kind  of  fuel  just  as  does  any 
other  engine. 

Food  as  Fuel;  Other  Uses. — Food  then  is  required  by  the  body 
to  supply  heat  and  energy;  but  fuel  foods  are  not  the  only  kind 
required  by  the  living  mechanism,  for  the  body  is  able  to  do  what 
no  man-made  device  is  able  to  accomplish.  When  the  parts 

3  I/-L 


PRINCIPLES   OF   COOKERY 


become  worn  out,  the  living  system  uses  food  to  repair  the  wasted 
tissues  and  bony  structure.  Not  only  can  the  body  do  this;  but 
that  it  uses  food  for  growth  is  constantly  manifest  in  the  develop- 
ment of  children.  Therefore,  tissue-building  or  repair  foods  are 
required  as  well  as  fuel  foods. 

Wise  Selection  of  Foods. — It  is  very  evident,  therefore,  that  the 
person  who  plans  the  meals  for  the  family  should  understand  how 
to  select  wisely  the  foods  which  supply  the  needs  of  the  human 
mechanism.  Foods  are  grouped  according  to  their  nutritive  uses 
into  the  following  classes:  Proteins,  Fats,  Carbohydrates,  Mineral 
Matters. 


FOOD  AS 
PURCHASED 
CONTAINS 


TABLE  OF  FOOD  NUTRIENTS 

Water. 

EDIBLE  PORTION T . . 

e.  g.,  flesh  of  meat,  yolk 
and  white  of  eggs,  wheat, 
flour,  etc.  Nutrients 


Protein. 
Fats. 

Carbohydrates. 
Mineral  matters. 


REFUSE. 

e.  g.,  bones,  entrails,  shells,  bran,  etc. 

USES  OF  NUTRIENTS  IN  THE  BODY. 
PROTEIN Builds  and  repairs  tissue. 

e.  g.,  white  (albumen)  of 

eggs,    curd    (casein)    of 

milk,  lean  meat,  gluten 

of  wheat,  etc. 
FATS Are  stored  as  fat 

e.  g.,  fat  of  meat,  butter, 

olive  oil,  oils  of  corn  and 

wheat,  etc. 
CARBOHYDRATES Are  transformed  into  fat. 

e.  g.,  sugar,  starch,  etc. 
MINERAL  MATTERS  (ASH)  Share  in  forming  bone,  assist  in  digestion,  etc 

e.  g.,  phosphates  of  lime,  potash,  soda,  etc. 


All  serve  as  fuel  to 
yield  energy  in  the 
forms  of  heat  and 
muscular  power. 


PRINCIPLES   OF   COOKERY 


The  Proteins  form  tissue  and  muscle  for  growth  and  repair. 
They  are  found  in  lean  meat,  white  of  eggs,  gluten  of  wheat,  curd 
of  milk,  beans,  peas,  etc. 

The  Fats  are  either  used  as  fuel  foods  or  stored  as  fat.  Examples 
are  the  fat  of  meats;  the  oils  of  corn,  peanut,  and  olive,  etc. 

The  Carbohydrates,  such  as  starch  and  sugar,  are  fuel  foods. 

All  three  of  the  above,  Protein,  Fats,  and  Carbohydrates,  serve 
as  fuel  to  yield  energy  in  the  forms  of  heat  and  muscular  power. 

The  Mineral  Matters  (ash)  share  in  forming  bone  and  in  acting  as 
body  regulators.  They  are  found  in  fruits  and  in  many  vegetables. 

Water  enters  every  tissue,  regulates  body  temperature,  and  aids 
in  the  work  accomplished  by  all  other  foods. 

In  planning  a  day's  meals,  fuel  foods,  growth-and-repair  foods, 
and  mineral  matters  should  be  provided  in  correct  proportion. 
This  subject  is  further  discussed  in  the  chapter  on  Balanced 
Rations. 

Purpose  of  Cooking. — The  purpose  of  cooking  foods  is  threefold : 
to  increase  their  nutritive  value  and  render  them  more  digestible; 
to  develop  their  flavors;  and  to  safeguard  health  by  destroying 
germs  and  parasites. 

Many  vegetables  are  indigestible  if  uncooked;  this  is  not  only 
because  their  coarse  cellular  structure  must  be  softened  by  cook- 
ing, but  because  most  vegetables  are  made  up  largely  of  starch; 
and  starch  in  its  raw  state  cannot  be  appropriated  by  the  body. 
Witness  the  pain  caused  by  eating  green  apples,  due  to  the  presence 
of  uncooked  starch.  In  the  case  of  the  ripe  fruit,  the  starch  has 
been  partially  cooked  by  the  heat  of  the  sun's  rays.  Exposure 
to  heat,  as  in  boiling,  causes  the  starch  grains  to  swell  and  burst 
the  hard  outer  coverings  in  which  they  are  enclosed.  The  starches 
thus  softened  and  released  are  converted  during  the  digestive 
process  into  sugar,  which  the  body  so  readily  appropriates. 

If  the  starch  grains  are  subjected  to  a  greater  degree  of  heat, 
as  in  baking,  a  greater — a  chemical  change — takes  place  which 
approaches  the  changes  made  during  the  process  of  digestion.  For 
this  reason,  toasted  and  twice-baked  breads  are  easily  assimilated. 


PRINCIPLES   OF   COOKERY 


It  follows,  therefore,  that  starchy  foods  require  thorough  cook- 
ing. This  does  not  mean,  however,  that  all  foods  should  be  made 
very  soft,  nor  that  they  should  be  predigested.  The  digestive 
system  of  a  healthy  person  likes  to  do  its  own  work,  and  both 
desires  and  requires  a  certain  amount  of  bulk.  This  much-needed 
bulk  is  largely  supplied  by  the  cellulose,  or  fibre-structure  of  vege- 
tables, which  has  no  nutritive  value  in  itself,  but  has  great  mechan- 
ical value.  In  some  forms  it  is  not  too  coarse  to  be  used  uncooked, 
as  in  lettuce  and  celery;  but  as  found  in  potatoes,  the  cereal 
grains,  and  in  other  combinations  with  starches,  it  needs  to  be 
softened  by  the  cooking  which  renders  the  starch  digestible. 

Cooking  develops  and  intensifies  the  flavors  which  render  food 
more  appetizing,  and  therefore  more  digestible.  This  is  particu- 
larly true  of  meats.  Cooking  also  serves  to  destroy  germs  and 
parasites;  and,  in  the  case  of  meats,  to  break  down  their  heavy 
muscular  fibres  and  tough  connective  tissues. 

Albuminous  Foods  should  be  cooked  at  a  low  temperature. 
This  refers  principally  to  meats  and  eggs.  Meats  belong  to  the 
protein  group  of  food,  and  contain  much  fibrin  which  closely 
resembles  albumen.  The  simplest  form  of  albumen  is  seen  in  the 
white  of  an  egg.  Heat  hardens  albumen,  long  exposure  to  intense 
heat  rendering  it  almost  insoluble,  and  therefore  indigestible.  For 
this  reason  eggs  should  be  cooked  at  a  low  temperature;  soups 
and  broths  likewise  to  extract  the  full  flavor  of  the  juices.  Baked 
and  roasted  meats  should  first  be  exposed  to  intense  heat,  to  sear 
the  surface  and  thus  prevent  the  rich  juices  from  escaping.  After 
a  coating  is  formed,  the  balance  of  the  cooking  should  be  done  at 
a  low  temperature. 

These  two  principles,  thorough  cooking  for  starchy  foods,  and 
low  temperature  for  albuminous  foods,  are  a  key  to  the  reasons 
for  the  various  methods  given  in  the  chapters  that  follow. 

Different  Methods  of  Cooking. — Foods  are  cooked  in  their  own 
juices,  or  by  the  use  of  water,  or  by  the  use  of  fats. 

Roasting,  baking,  broiling,  and  pan-broiling  are  examples  of 
cooking  foods  in  their  own  juices. 


PRINCIPLES   OF   COOKERY 


Roasting,  which  means  cooking  before  a  clear  open  fire  with 
exposure  to  air,  has  practically  gone  out  of  use  with  the  passing 
of  the  open  fireplace  for  cooking,  although  gau/e-door  ovens  are 
a  substitute.  By  roasting,  the  flavor  is  better  developed,  and  the 
juices  are  better  retained  than  by  any  other  method  of  cooking 
meats. 

Baking,  which  means  cooking  in  a  closed  oven,  has  largely  taken 
the  place  of  roasting. 

Broiling,  or  cooking  on  a  grill  over  glowing  coals,  or  exposed  to 
gas  flames,  is  the  nearest  to  roasting  of  the  methods  of  cooking 
now  employed.  Pan-broiling  is  cooking  in  a  saute  pan  or  spider 
without  the  use  of  either  water  or  fat. 

Boiling,  stewing,  braising,  and  fricasseeing  are  various  methods 
of  cooking  by  use  of  water,  and  are  explained  in  the  chapter  on 
"Meats,"  page  59. 

Frying  and  sauteing,  methods  of  cooking  by  the  use  of  fats  or 
oils,  are  also  explained  on  page  60. 

Measurements. — On  the  last  page  of  this  book  will  be  found 
tables  of  weights  and  measures.  The  standard  measuring  cup 
holds  one-half  pint,  and  all  measurements  are  level.  Fill  measures 
more  than  full,  then  draw  a  knife  across  the  top  to  level.  Just 
as  a  skilled  workman  enjoys  using  good  tools,  so  the  good  and 
intelligent  cook  enjoys  having  a  well-equipped  kitchen  work-room. 
There  is  not  only  inspiration  for  the  cook  in  such  inexpensive 
conveniences  as  the  transparent  glass  measuring  cup,  the  handy 
nest  of  measuring  spoons,  the  flexible  kitchen  spatula,  the  copper 
wire  dish  mop,  the  revolving  egg-beater,  and  the  potato-ricer, 


GLASS  MEASURING  CUP 


NEST  OF  SPOONS 

7 


USING  SPATULA  TO  SCRAPE  A  BOWL 


PRINCIPLES   OF   COOKERY 


but  they  have  an  additional  value  in  stirring  the  intellectual 
curiosity  of  the  younger  members  of  the  household,  who  absorb 
from  these  workman-like  tools  a  new  respect  for  the  art  of  cookery, 
and  not  unfrequently  manifest  a  desire  to  learn  to  use  them. 

Marketing  and  Economy. — The  wise  housekeeper  does  not  market 
over  the  telephone  except  in  emergency,  but  goes  to  the  market 
herself.  Her  aim  is  to  provide  the  food  which  her  family  needs; 
and  to  get  the  best  returns  for  the  money  she  spends.  In  order 
to  provide  the  right  kind  and  amount  of  food,  she  has  made  a 
study  of  foods,  and  of  balanced  rations;  and  in  order  to  get  the 
best  returns  for  the  money  expended,  she  selects  in  person  the  food 
required,  for  she  knows  that  the  price  she  pays  is  no  test  of  the 
nourishment  the  food  will  yield.  The  scarce  article  is  not  neces- 
sarily the  article  to  be  most  desired.  Strawberries  on  the  table 
with  snow  on  the  windows  are  surely  an  extravagance.  The  expen- 
sive cuts  of  meat  are  expensive  because  there  are  only  a  few  of 
them  in  each  animal.  Cheaper  cuts,  if  cooked  skilfully,  yield  as 
much  nutriment,  and  will  be  fully  as  much  relished.  But  it  would 
be  unwise  to  pay  more  for  fuel  for  cooking  a  tougher  cut  of  meat 
than  was  saved  in  the  difference  in  the  purchase  price.  The  fire- 
less  and  steam  cookers  have  practically  solved  this  problem.  No 
kitchen  should  be  without  one.  In  the  use  of  the  less  tender  ends 
of  meat,  and  for  "left-overs,"  a  meat  grinder  is  one  of  the  best 
means  of  economy. 

It  is  often  a  foolish  pride  which  prevents  a  housekeeper  from 
saving.  Get  what  you  ask  for.  Do  not  accept  substitutes. 
Help  the  Government  Pure  Food  Laws  by  observing  labels. 
These  laws  are  a  wonderful  advance  in  bettering  conditions.  Keep 
a  pad  and  pencil  hanging  in  the  kitchen  for  market  memoranda. 
Do  not  purchase  what  you  do  not  need  because  it  is  cheap. 

If  practicing  economy,  avoid  "package  goods"  because  a  goodly 
part  of  the  price  goes  for  the  fancy  wrappings.  Where  possible, 
buy  by  weight. 


ENTERTAINING 


fc-L 


Hospitality — the   pleasant   practice   of   entertaining  friends    and 
strangers  ivith  kindness  and  liberality. 

—The  Hostess. 


10 


ENTERTAINING 

THE  most  formal  of  social  functions  is  the  formal  dinner. 
The  dignity  of  the  occasion  demands  that  everything  be 
correct,  the  invitations  issued  long  in  advance,  and  the  courses 
many  and  elaborate,  as  befitting  the  ceremonious  affair.  It  is  to 
be  doubted  if  either  guest  or  hostess  finds  the  formal  dinner 
comparable  in  enjoyment  with  the  little,  or  informal  dinner,  for 
in  this  the  true  spirit  of  hospitality  seeks  its  opportunity  to  charm. 
The  courses  are  few  as  compared  with  the  formal  dinner,  and  all 
details  have  been  thought  out  by  the  hostess  with  a  consideration 
for  the  personality  of  her  guests. 

The  formal  luncheon  and  the  less  formal  breakfast  differ  sim- 
ilarly; although,  of  course,  no  luncheon  is  as  ceremonious  as  the 
formal  dinner.  The  most  approved  hour  for  the  breakfast  party 
is  twelve  o'clock,  but  it  is  sometimes  placed  as  early  as  ten  or 
eleven;  and  it  may  be  said  that  this  pleasing  manner  of  gathering 
friends  about  one  especially  recommends  itself  in  the  summer  time, 
when  elaborate  affairs  are  less  attractive  than  in[the  cooler  seasons. 

Afternoon  tea  is  continually  becoming  more  popular,  and  for 
good  reason.  From  its  very  simplicity,  it  is  no  tax  on  the  hostess, 
and  is  a  most  welcome  and  restful  break  in  the  "busy -ness"  of  a 
busy  day.  At  an  "At  Home"  day,  which  may  be  a  set  day  and 
hour  at  intervals  throughout  several  weeks,  a  hostess  receives 
many  of  her  friends  at  one  time,  and  although  she  owes  each 
guest  a  call  in  return,  she  has  the  pleasure  and  satisfaction  of 
being  "in"  when  her  friends  call. 

The  evening  reception)  may  be  an  elaborate  affair,  if  the  occasion 
requires;  but  in  its  best  estate  it  is  a  simple,  informal  way  of 
introducing  a  pleasant  visitor  to  one's  circle  of  friends,  or  of 
honoring  a  noted  musician,  author,  or  other  celebrity. 

11  L-L 


ENTERTAINING 


INVITATIONS 

As  has  been  said,  the  dinner  takes  first  rank  among  general 
entertainments  and  usually  involves  more  or  less  formality. 
Invitations  are  sent  out  at  least  two  weeks  in  advance,  and  should 
be  answered  immediately.  The  formal  invitation  is  engraved; 
the  guest's  name,  hour  and  date  written  in  by  hand, 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry  B.  Anderson 

request  the  pleasure  of 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  Brown's 

company  at  dinner 
on  Wednesday,  April  the  fourteenth 

at  eight  o'clock. 
12  West  Burton  Place, 
March  the  thirty -first. 

For  a  less  formal  dinner  a  note  in  the  first  person  may  be  sent : 
My  dear  Mrs.  Brown: 

Will  you  and  Mr.  Brown  dine  with  us  informally  on  Thursday 
evening.,  January  the  eighteenth,  at  eight  o'clock? 

Sincerely  yours, 

Elizabeth  Smith  Anderson. 
12  West  Burton  Place, 
January  the  fourth. 

The  dinner  in  this  case  may  be  quite  as  formal  as  that  for  which 
the  third-person  invitation  was  sent,  and  evening  dress  is  required. 

For  a  very  informal  little  dinner  an  unconventional  note  is  sent 
a  week  or  less  before  the  date  set;  and  dinner  dress  is  not  required. 

Invitations  to  luncheon  are  similar  to  those  used  for  dinner, 
although,  as  the  affair  is  generally  less  formal,  the  engraved  invita- 
tion is  much  less  frequently  used. 

Invitations  for  afternoon  or  evening  occasions  vary  according 
to  the  number  of  guests  and  the  degree  of  formality.  For  small, 
informal  affairs  the  hostess  simply  uses  her  visiting  card  (or  one 
engraved  a  trifle  larger),  writing  in  the  lower  left-hand  corner, 
"Cards,"  "Musicale,"  or  whatever  the  entertainment  is  to  be, 

12  L-L 


ENTERTAINING 


and  under  it  the  date  and  hour.  She  may  write  under  her  own 
name,  "To  meet  Miss  Mary  Jones"  if  the  entertainment  is  given 
in  honor  of  Miss  Jones.  Often,  however,  the  cordial  little  note 
of  invitation  is  preferred  by  many,  perhaps  because  it  carries  a 
more  direct  and  personal  appeal.  It  is  a  subtle  compliment, 
sometimes  well  calculated  to  make  a  diffident  invited  guest  feel 
that  she  is  really  wanted. 

The  Formal  Dinner  Party 

For  the  large  dinner  party,  guests  are  expected  to  arrive  at  the 
hour  appointed,  and  courtesy  does  not  demand  that  the  hostess 
wait  more  than  fifteen  minutes  for  a  tardy  guest. 

Each  gentleman  finds  on  a  tray  in  the  dressing-room  a  small 
addressed  envelope  containing  a  card  on  which  is  written  the 
name  of  the  lady  whom  he  is  to  escort  to  dinner,  and  "R"  or 
"L"  in  one  corner  to  indicate  on  which  side  of  the  table  they  are 
to  sit.  If  he  does  not  know  the  lady,  the  hostess  should  see  that 
he  is  presented  to  her. 

Introductions 

The  hostess  stands  near  the  door  and  receives  the  guests, 
making  such  introductions  as  are  convenient.  In  general,  the 
"roof  introduction'*  is  considered  sufficient — especially  at  large 
dinners.  Introductions,  however,  should  be  given  wherever 
possible,  for  they  make  intercourse  among  one's  guests  easier. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  is  not  considered  good  form  for  a  hostess 
to  interrupt  a  conversation  between  guests  for  the  purpose  of 
making  an  introduction,  or  to  introduce  a  guest  upon  his  entrance 
to  more  than  one  other  at  a  time. 

In  making  introductions  the  names  should  be  pronounced  as 
distinctly  as  possible;  nothing  is  more  discourteous  to  one's 
guests  than  a  muttered  introduction.  A  certain  deference  is 
to  be  observed  in  regard  to  sex,  age,  and  office  or  public  position. 
The  gentleman  is  always  presented  to  the  lady,  the  usual  form 
being,  "Mrs.  Brown,  allow  me  to  present  Mr.  Smith:  Mr.  Smith, 
Mrs.  Brown."  In  introducing  two  women,  either  may  be  pre- 
sented to  the  other,  unless  the  difference  in  their  ages  is  very 
evident,  in  which  case  the  younger  should  be  presented  to  the 
older.  With  regard  to  office  or  station,  the  presentation  is  made 
to  the  distinguished  guest,  thus:  "Governor  Clark,  allow  me  to 
present  Mr.  Newton:  Mr.  Newton,  Governor  Clark.'*  The 

13  I/-L 


ENTERTAINING 


exact  words  used  in  introductions  are  immaterial,  so  that  the 
proper  order  is  preserved.  Where  sex,  age,  and  position  play 
no  part,  it  is  sufficient  to  say  "Mrs.  Bell,  this  is  Mrs.  Adams: 
Mrs.  Adams,  Mrs.  Bell";  or,  in  the  case  of  two  men,  "Mr.  Grant, 
Mr.  Wilson." 

The  tactful  hostess  usually  adds  to  an  introduction  some  remark 
which  will  enable  the  guests  to  converse  more  readily.  She  may 
say,  for  instance,  "Mrs.  Brown,  allow  me  to  present  Mrs.  Smith; 
Mrs.  Smith  has  just  returned  from  London";  or  "Mrs.  Smith, 
this  is  Mrs.  Brown;  two  such  ardent  club  women  should  know 
each  other."  There  are  very  few  persons  who  will  not  be  grateful 
for  some  such  hint. 

Seating  the  Guests 

The  servant  watches  the  number  of  guests,  and  when  all  have 
arrived  announces  dinner;  or  in  case  of  a  belated  guest,  he  waits 
for  a  signal  from  the  hostess.  When  dinner  is  announced  the 
host  offers  his  right  arm  to  the  lady  who  is  to  sit  at  his  right.  The 
other  couples  follow;  then,  last,  the  hostess  with  the  gentleman 
who  is  to  sit  at  her  right. 

Guests  are  enabled  to  find  their  places  easily  by  means  of 
"place  cards,"  on  which  the  name  of  each  guest  is  distinctly 
written.  Confusion  in  seating  the  guests  is  thus  avoided,  and 
those  who  are  congenial  can  be  placed  near  each  other. 

The  host  and  hostess  may  sit  at  the  ends  of  the  table  or  in  the 
middle  of  each  side.  The  lady  who  is  to  be  especially  honored 
sits  on  the  host's  right,  she  who  is  to  be  honored  next,  on  his  left. 
Similarly,  two  gentlemen  are  honored  by  seats  on  the  right  and 
left  of  the  hostess. 

The  hostess  should,  as  far  as  possible,  bring  together  only  guests 
who  "mix  well,"  and  should  select  the  dinner  partners  tactfully. 
Two  very  quiet  people  should  not  be  seated  together,  or  two  who 
have  very  decided  opinions,  or  two  who  are  known  to  be  uncon- 
genial. The  dinner  should  be  a  feast  of  good  things  other  than 
food,  and  conversation  should  be  as  entertaining  as  possible. 
Upon  host  and  hostess,  of  course,  devolves  the  duty  of  keeping 
conversation  alive,  though  the  guests  are  expected  to  do  their 
part.  Many  a  hostess  has  saved  the  day  by  a  bon  mot  or  a  tactful 
change  of  subject.  Some  women  are  born  hostesses,  most  women 
can  be  made,  or  rather  can  make  themselves,  successful  hostesses. 
The  chief  essentials  are  tact,  which  is  the  saving  grace  of  women, 
the  ability  to  be  interested  in  many  things,  and  true  kindliness. 

14  L-L 


ENTERTAINING 


Courtesy,  after  all — that  is,  true  courtesy — is  a  matter  of  the 
heart,  and  is  not  dependent  upon  a  knowledge  of  social  usages. 
Some  women,  notably  poor  conversationalists,  are  still  very 
charming  hostesses.  In  them  thoughtfulness  and  tact  make  up 
for  lack  of  brilliancy. 

For  the  sake  of  her  own  peace  of  mind,  however,  the  hostess 
should  leave  nothing  to  chance.  All  should  be  carefully  planned 
beforehand,  the  servants  properly  instructed,  and  everything  in 
readiness  before  the  guests  arrive,  so  that  the  dinner  may  proceed 
with  the  smoothness  of  clockwork,  with  the  hostess  as  free  from 
care  as  the  guests  at  her  own  table. 

Menu-Making 

In  arranging  the  menu  too  much  should  not  be  attempted 
and  each  course  should  be  in  pleasing  contrast  to  the  last.  Except 
for  a  very  elaborate  dinner,  raw  oysters,  a  clear  soup,  fish,  one 
entree,  a  roast  with  potatoes  and  one  other  vegetable,  salad  with 
cheese  straws  or  crackers  and  cheese,  an  ice,  fruit  and  black  coffee 
should  be  sufficient.  Butter  is  seldom  served  except  at  the 
informal  dinner. 

OUTLINE  MENU  FOR  FULL  COURSE  DINNER 

SHELLFISH  ("Appetizer") — on  ice  with  lemon — light  oyster  crackers. 

CLEAR  SOUP— in  soup  plates,  half  full— thick  slices  of  bread  or  roll  folded  in  the 

napkin. 
HORS  D'CEUVRES  ("Relishes")— olives,  celery,  radishes,  etc.,  passed  after  soup  is 

served. 

FlsH — with  appropriate  sauce,  potato  balls  and  cucumbers  if  possible. 
ENTREE — patties,  timbale  of  chicken,  or  creamed  dishes  in  paper  cases  (bread 

passed). 
MEAT— with  appropriate  sauce,  jelly,  potatoes,  one  vegetable  with  fruit.    (Sherbet, 

or  "punch,"  may  be  served  as  a  course.) 
GAME,  OR  YOUNG  POULTRY — served  whole  if  small;    others  in  halves  or  slices; 

varying  accompaniments. 
SALAD— (usually  vegetable)   served  with  the  game— may  be  accompanied  with 

Brie,  Roquefort,  or  cream  cheese  and  crackers.      (Salad  and  cheese  sticks 

may  be  served  in  place  of  game.) 
HOT  PUDDING — with  sauce. 

GLACE — ice,  ice  cream  or  frozen  dessert — svith  sweet  wafers. 
DESSERT — nuts,  fruits,  bonbons,  crackers,  cheese. 
COFFEE— black,  served  with  sugar  alone.     (Cafe  noir.) 

15 


ENTERTAINING 


COMPLETE  MENU 

WAFERS  BLUE  POINTS  HORSERADISH 

CONSOMME 
OLIVES  CELERY  SALTED  ALMONDS 

BAKED  FILLETS  OF  HALIBUT,  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

POTATO  BALLS  CUCUMBERS 

CHICKEN  TIMBALES 

SPRING  LAMB 
MINT  SAUCE  NEW  POTATOES  IN  CREAM  ASPARAGUS  TIPS 

ORANGE  PEKOE  SHERBET 
ROASTED  GROUSE  LETTUCE,  FRENCH  DRESSING 

PLUM  PUDDING,  LEMON  SAUCE 

MAPLE  MOUSSE  SWEET  WAFERS 

FRUIT  ROQUEFORT  CHEESE  NUTS  BONBONS 

CAFE  Norn 

A  LITTLE  DINNER  MENU 

ANCHOVY  CANAPES 

CONSOMME 

ROAST  DUCK  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE 

CREAMED  CELERY  BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES 

CRACKERS  STUFFED  OLIVES 

FRUIT  AND  NUT  SALAD 

CREAM  CHEESE 

ICE  CREAM 

COFFEE 

A  LUNCHEON   MENU 

MIXED  FRUIT  COCKTAIL 

TOMATO  BISQUE 

BAKED  FISH  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

CREAMED  PEAS  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

CUCUMBER  SALAD 

WHIPPED  JELLY 

COFFEE 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  LATE  BREAKFAST  MENUS 

FRUIT  OR  FRUIT  JUICE  TOAST  OR  MUFFINS  OR  WAFFLES 

EGGS  OR  LIGHT  MEAT  SALAD,  CHEESE  AND  WAFERS 

FRENCH-FRIED  OR  LYONNAISE  POTATOES  COFFEE  (IN  LARGE  CUPS) 

RADISHES,  OLIVES,  SALTED  NUTS 

16 


ENTERTAINING 


All  of  these  menus  are  more  or  less  elaborate.  They  may  be 
made  much  more  simple  by  omitting  the  appetizers  and  desserts. 
For  a  dessert  at  luncheon,  especially  where  children  are  served, 
cocoa  with  whipped  cream  is  a  welcome  substitute.  As  people 
are  learning  to  appreciate  simplicity  of  diet  more  and  more,  there 
is  a  tendency  to  lessen  efforts  to  plan  overburdening  bills  of  fare. 

HINTS  ON   SERVING 

The  table  should  have  its  centerpiece  of  growing  ferns  or  flowers, 
and  two  or  four  candlesticks  with  wax  candles  and  pretty  shades. 
No  edibles,  with  the  exception  of  bonbons,  salted  nuts  or  crystal- 
lized fruits  in  compotiers,  appear  upon  the  table.  All  the  china 
used  in  the  same  course  should  match  wherever  possible,  but  a 
different  set  of  plates  is  permissible  for  each  course. 

A  supply  of  extra  silver  should  be  laid  out  in  convenient  fashion 
on  the  sideboard,  and  finger-bowls,  dessert  plates,  after-dinner 
coffee  cups  and  spoons  should  be  in  readiness  on  the  side  table. 
Water  in  the  finger-bowls  should  be  warm,  with  perhaps  a  dainty 
flower  or  a  leaf  of  rose  geranium  floating  on  the  surface. 

1.  Food  should  always  be  placed  before  guests  from  the  right. 

2.  When  a  dish  is  presented  from  which  a  guest  is  to  help  him- 
self, it  should  be  passed  to  the  left. 

3.  When  a  course  is  finished,  the  plate  should  be  removed  from 
the  left. 

4.  Plates  should  be  before  the  guests  when  they  take  seats  at 
the  table,  and  when  one  plate  is  removed  it  should  be  immediately 
replaced  by  another. 

5.  At  the  right  of  the  plate  have  oyster  fork,  soup  spoon  and 
knives  in  the  order  of  use,  the  one  first  needed  farthest  from  the 
plate.     On  the  left  lay  the  forks  in  the  order  of  use,  the  one  first 
needed  farthest  from  the  plate.     Let  the  bowls  of  the  spoons  and 
the  tines  of  the  forks  be  turned  upward  and  the  cutting  edges  of  the 
knives  toward  the  plate.     The  napkin,  simply  folded,  is  placed 
at  the  left  of  the  forks  and  parallel  to  them  with  the  open  corners 
nearest  the  guest.     A  small  thick  piece  of  bread  or  a  dinner  roll 
may  be  laid  on  the  napkin  or  inserted  in  the  fold.      The  guest 
removes  the  napkin,  leaving  the  bread  at  the  side  of  the  plate 
until  he  wishes  to  eat  it. 

6.  Set  the  glass  for  water  above  the  plate  near  the  end  of  the 
knife.      Each  glass  should  be  filled  with  cracked  ice  before  the 
water  is  poured. 

7.  Before  the  dessert  is  served  all  the  plates,  small  silver,  salt 

17  I^L 


ENTERTAINING 


and  pepper  shakers,  and  all  the  glasses  that  will  not  be  used 
again,  should  be  removed.  Then  the  table  should  be  "crumbed," 
using  a  silver  crumb  knife  and  tray  or  a  napkin  and  plate. 

8.  Spoons  or  knives  and  forks  for  the  sweet  course  are  usually 
supplied  after  the  table  is  cleared.     Spoons  or  knives  are  laid  to 
the  right  of  the  plate;   forks  to  the  left.     If  forks  only  are  called 
for,  they  are  placed  at  the  right. 

9.  Black  coffee  in  small  cups  (for  which  sugar  is  passed)  is  the 
last  course,  and  should  precede  the  finger-bowls  unless  the  coffee 
is  to  be  served  to  the  ladies  in  the  drawing-room.     In  that  case 
the  finger-bowls  should  be  placed  before  the  ladies  leave  the  table. 

10.  If  the  coffee  is  to  be  served  in  the  drawing-room  the  waitress 
covers  a  large  tray  with  a  white  napkin,  arranges  the  filled  cups, 
smoking  hot,  upon  it,  and  carries  it  into  the  room  where  the  guests 
are  assembled.     Many  hostesses  prefer  this  way  of  serving. 

When  there  is  only  one  pair  of  hands  to  do  both  cooking  and 
serving,  still  less  formality  should  be  observed.  The  service  plate 
should  be  omitted;  all  the  knives  and  forks  to  be  used  should  be 
upon  the  table,  with  salts  and  peppers  at  the  corners  of  the  table, 
or  one  for  every  two  persons.  Bread-and-butter  plates,  containing 
butter-ball,  and  a  small  butter  knife  should  be  placed  at  the  left 
of  the  cover  before  dinner  is  announced,  and  a  dinner  roll  folded 
into  the  napkin.  Glasses  should  be  filled  with  ice  water  and  every- 
thing needed  should  be  on  the  side  table  before  the  guests  are 
seated.  The  plates  for  each  course  served  on  the  table  should  be 
placed  in  a  low  pile,  not  more  than  three  or  four  at  a  time,  in  front 
of  the  host  or  hostess.  As  each  is  filled  the  maid  will  lift  it  to  her 
tray,  carry  and  place  it  before  the  guest. 

Where  there  is  no  maid,  as  is  the  case  in  seven-eighths  of  Ameri- 
can homes,  the  tea- wagon,  or  "  service  wagon  "  may  be  a  most  con- 
venient substitute.  Upon  it,  close  at  the  left  side  of  the  hostess, 
may  be  placed  all  the  extra  accessories  for  the  various  courses, 
and  it  may  be  used  later  for  carrying  soiled  dishes  into  pantry  and 
kitchen. 

THE  INFORMAL  DINNER 

The  informal  dinner,  to  which  only  a  few  guests  are  invited,  is 
served  almost  like  the  formal  dinner;  but  where  there  is  only  one 
waitress  it  is  customary  to  do  much  of  the  serving  at  the  table. 

For  this  simple  dinner,  soup,  a  roast,  two  vegetables,  a  salad, 
dessert  and  coffee  amply  suffice. 

Soup  may  be  served  by  the  hostess  from  a  tureen.     The  waitress 

IS  i.-i. 


ENTERTAINING 


takes  one  soup-plate  at  a  time  from  the  sideboard,  placing  it  in 
front  of  the  hostess;  when  it  is  filled  she  passes  it  to  the  guest  and 
brings  another.  Fish  may  be  served  by  the  host  and  passed  in 
the  same  manner  as  the  soup.  The  roast  is  carved  by  the  host: 
but  entrees,  if  included  in  the  menu,  are  served  from  the  side, 
Vegetables  and  sauces  should  be  placed  on  the  side  table  and 
passed  to  each  guest  when  required.  The  salad  may  be  brought 
in  on  individual  plates  or  served  on  the  table  by  either  host  or 
hostess.  The  dessert  is  served  by  the  hostess,  and  the  coffee, 
unless  brought  in  cups  from  the  kitchen,  is  poured  by  her.  Bon- 
bons and  relishes  are  usually  on  the  table. 

AFTERNOON   TEA 

The  serving  of  afternoon  tea  with  its  dainty  accompaniment  of 
sandwiches  or  cake  is  coming  into  ever  greater  popularity, 
whether  at  an  entertainment  to  which  cards  for  "Afternoon  tea 
at  four  o'clock"  are  sent,  or  during  the  customary  afternoon  calls. 
In  the  former  case,  naturally,  the  refreshments  are  usually  more 
elaborate,  though  in  no  case  should  they  be  heavy,  as  dinner  is  so 
close  at  hand. 

For  the  small  reunion  of  friends,  the  tea  should  be  made  and 
served  by  the  hostess  in  the  drawing-room  or  living-room;  or  in 
summer  weather,  out-of-doors.  Simple  sandwiches  and  cakes  are 
served  with  hot  tea,  coffee  or  chocolate;  though  tea  is  preferable, 
because  less  rich  and  held  by  most  women  in  high  esteem. 

In  hot  weather,  however,  iced  coffee,  tea,  or  punch  is  usually 
more  acceptable.  No  service  or  assistance  is  necessary  except  to 
bring  in  the  required  articles;  the  hostess  or  a  friend  makes  the 
tea  and  the  guests  help  each  other  and  themselves. 

For  the  more  pretentious  afternoon  tea,  refreshments  are  served 
in  the  dining  room,  from  a  table  made  beautiful  with  flowers, 
lights  and  tempting  viands.  At  one  end  of  the  table  is  usually  a 
tea-service  and  at  the  other  a  service  for  chocolate;  each  is  pre- 
sided over  by  a  friend  of  the  hostess.  The  refreshments  include 
sandwiches,  fancy  cakes,  olives,  bonbons,  etc.  These  are  passed 
to  the  standing  guests  by  waitresses  or  young  girls,  also  friends  of 
the  hostess.  Napkins  are  a  convenience,  but  not  a  necessity; 
sandwiches  and  cakes  are  usually  placed  on  the  saucer  or  a  plate 
under  it.  In  summer  weather,  frappe,  glace,  sherbet,  or  any 
suitable  frozen  dessert  is  sometimes  served  in  addition  to  the  other 
delicacies. 

19 


ENTERTAINING 


THE  EVENING   COLLATION 

Evening  refreshments  may  be  of  infinite  variety — from  the  very 
simple  to  the  most  elaborate — without  regard  to  appetite  or  diges- 
tion. The  menu  may  include  hot  bouillon,  hot  entrees,  sandwiches, 
cold  entrees,  salads,  coffee,  salted  nuts,  ices  and  cakes.  Coffee 
may  be  served  in  teacups  with  the  supper  or  in  after-dinner  cups 
as  a  last  course.  The  second  way  is  necessarily  customary  where 
guests  are  not  seated  at  tables. 

Only  the  daintiest  of  china,  glass  and  silver  should  appear  on 
the  table,  and  all  crowding  should  be  avoided;  dishes  can  be 
replenished  from  the  pantry  if  necessary.  The  table  may  be 
simply  or  elaborately  decorated,  according  to  the  kind  of  enter- 
tainment, the  season,  and  inclination  of  the  host.  Candle  light, 
because  of  its  soft  radiance,  is  preferred  to  any  other;  and  the 
candlesticks  themselves  add  beauty  of  the  appearance  of  the  table. 


20 


s 

o 
I 

=  w 
*  9 

B   a) 

in 

S-  » 


1 1 


APPETIZERS 


And  through  the  hall  there  walked  to  and  fro, 
A  jolly  yeoman,  master  of  the  same,  whose  name  was  Appetite. 
•  — Spenser' 's  Faerie  Queene. 


22 


APPETIZERS 

A  APPETIZERS,  which  are  served  at  the  beginning  of  a  meal,  are 
•L\-  invitations'to  the  feast,  as  it  were,  because  their  piquant 
flavors  or  high  seasonings  stimulate  digestion  to  wait  on  appetite. 
Native  oysters  and  clams  on  the  half-shell,  or  imported  caviar 
(the  salted  roe  of  sturgeon),  or  anchovies  (tiny  fish)  served  as 
canapes,  constitute  this  course  at  formal  dinners;  but  for  other 
meals  the  fruit  cocktail  forms  a  pleasing  introduction,  especially 
at  luncheons.  This  dainty  appetizer,  served  in  its  appropriate 
glass,  set  on  a  linen  or  paper  doily  on  a  plate,  is  not  only  very 
palatable,  but  may  form  part  of  the  table  decorative  scheme. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL  No.  1 

12  oysters  1  saltspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  grated  horseradish  Dash  of  red  pepper 

1  teaspoon  tomato  catsup  1  teaspoon  tabasco 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Put  three  oysters  in  each  glass,     Mix  the  horseradish  and  sea- 
sonings and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  oysters. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL  No.  2 

12  oysters  1  tablespoon  tomato  catsup 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  l/z  saltspoon  paprika 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce  1  saltspoon  salt 
5  drops  tabasco 

Put  three  oysters  in  each  glass-     Make  a  sauce  of  the  other  in- 
gredients and  pour  over  the  oysters, 

LOBSTER  COCKTAIL 

Cut  the  lobster  into  small  pieces;  mix  well  with  tomato  catsup, 
lemon  juice  and  salt.     Serve  in  cocktail  glasses. 

23  *-* 


APPETIZERS  K  *****  for  » 

Family  of  Four 

CLAM  COCKTAIL 

Follow  either  of  the  recipes  for  oyster  cocktails,  using  little  neck 
clams 

GRAPE-FRUIT  COCKTAIL 

Cut  the  grape-fruit  into  halves,  crosswise,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp, 
rejecting  the  white  inner  skin  as  well  as  the  seeds.  Clean  the  shells  • 
cut  the  edges  with  a  sharp  knife  into  scallops  and  throw  them  into 
cold  water.  Set  the  pulp  on  the  ice.  At  serving  time  put  a  tea- 
spoon ol  cracked  ice  in  the  bottom  of  each  shell;  fill  with  the  pulp, 
mixed  thoroughly  with  powdered  sugar  and  white  grapes,  if  de- 
sired; and  place  a  maraschino  cherry  or  bit  of  bright-colored  jelly 
in  the  center  of  each.  Lay  on  paper  doilies  or  surround  with  bits 
of  asparagus  fern, 

MIXED  FRUIT  COCKTAILS 

Cut  into  small  pieces  as  many  different  kinds  of  fruit  as  you  have 
in  the  house;  sweeten  to  taste  and  set  on  the  ice  to  chill.  At  serv- 
ing time  fill  the  cocktail  glasses  and  place  a  maraschino  cherry  01 
ripe  strawberry  on  the  top  of  each. 

Fresh  or  canned  pineapple  is  one  of  the  most  refreshing  fruits 
for  cocktailst 

RASPBERRY  COCKTAIL 

Mash  a  pint  of  ripe,  red  currants;  strain  them  through  cheese- 
cloth; pour  the  juice  over  a  pint  of  red  raspberries  and  set  on  the 
ice  to  chill.  At  serving  time  sweeten  to  taste  and  pour  into  the 
glasses,  putting  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar  on  the  top  of  each. 

STRAWBERRY  COCKTAIL 

Slice  five  or  six  large  strawberries  into  each  glass  and  squeeze 
over  them  the  juice  of  an  orange*  At  serving  time  add  a  heaping 
teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  shaved  ice. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  BANANA  COCKTAIL 

Take  equal  parts  of  banana  and  fresh  or  canned  pineapple;  cut 
into  small  cubes  and  cover  with  lemon  or  pineapple  juice.  Serve 
in  glasses  or  orange  shells  placed  on  autumn  leaves  or  sprays  o* 
green  fern. 


24 


Planned  for  a  A  "DTDT7TT7T7P  ^ 

Family  of  Four  AtTlL  1 1Z/±LK.C> 

PEACH  COCKTAIL 

Fill  the  glasses  with  sliced  peaches;  cover  with  orange  or  lemon 
juice;  sweeten  to  taste ;  add  a  little  shaved  ice  and  serve. 
Apricot  and  cherry  cocktails  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

AMBROSIA 

Fill  the  glasses  with  alternate  layers  of  sliced  orange  and  coeoa~ 
nut;  cover  with  powdered  sugar  and  place  a  maraschino  cherry 
on  the  top  of  each. 

CAVIAR   CANAPES 

6  squares  toast  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

6  teaspoons  Russian  caviar  1  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

1  hard-boiled  egg 

Cut  the  bread  about  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  two  inches 
square  (or  round)  and  after  it  is  toasted  spread  over  each  slice  a 
teaspoon  of  ice-cold  caviar0  Mix  the  other  ingredients;  spread 
the  mixture  over  the  caviar  and  serve  v/ith  quarters  of  lemon^ 

ANCHOVY  CANAPES 

Cut  the  bread  as  for  caviar  canapes  and  spread  with  anchovy 
paste.  Chop  separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  cover  the  canapes,  dividing  them  into  quarters,  with  anchovies 
split  in  two  lengthwise,  and  using  yolks  and  whites  in  alternate 
quarters. 

CHEESE  CANAPES 

1  cup  grated  cheese  Dash  of  red  peppei 

1  teaspoon  salt  6  slices  buttered  bread 

Cut  the  bread  into  circles,  diamonds  or  squares,  butter  them 
lightly  and  brown  by  placing  in  the  oven  or  frying  in  deep  fat. 
Cover  each  with  a  thick  layer  of  the  grated  cheese  to  which  the 
seasoning  has  been  added.  Bake  in  the  oven  until  the  cheese  is 
thoroughly  melted  and  serve  at  once. 

HAM  CANAPES 

*/2  cup  minced  ham  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsiev 

2  tablespoons  butter  6  slices  buttered  bread 

Mix  the  ham,  butter  and  parsley  to  a  smooth  paste;  prepare 
the  bread  as  for  cheese  canapes ;  spread  with  the  mixture  and  serve. 

25  fc-x. 


APP17TT7FR  ^  Planned  for  a 

ArMrJ/  1  l^r/iS.  O Family  of  Four 

ANGELS   ON   HORSEBACK 
(Anges  a  Cheval) 

Oysters  Lemon 

Sliced  bacon  Cayenne  pepper 

Fried  bread  or  toast 

On  each  oyster  pour  a  few  drops  of  lemon,  add  a  grain  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Roll  the  oyster  in  a  slice  of  bacon,  and  fasten  with  a 
toothpick.  Fry  until  the  bacon  is  cooked.  Place  each  on  a 
square  of  fried  bread.  Garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley.  Serve 
hot  with  a  dash  of  tomato  catsup. 

This  dish  may  be  served  either  at  the  beginning  of  a  dinner,  or 
as  a  savory,  or  for  a  breakfast  or  luncheon  course.  It  is  essentially 
for  a  winter  menu. 


26 


SOUPS 


Too  many  cooks  spoil  the  broth — because  they  put  no  stock  in  it. 

—Fables  of  a  Rolling-Pin. 


28 


SOUPS 

THIN  clear  soups,  such  as  consomme  and  bouillon,  which  are 
used  as  a  dinner  course,  are  valuable  advance  agents  of  the 
meal,  preparing  by  their  warmth  and  stimulation  for  the  heavier 
courses  to  follow.  Soups  containing  (bits  of  meat  and  vegetables, 
and  cream  soups,  are  far  more  nutritious  than  clear  soups,  and  may 
be  made  the  basis  of  a  luncheon  or  supper.  The  wise  housekeeper 
is  able  to  serve  soup  at  a  moment's  notice  by  having  soup  stock 
always  on  hand. 

MEAT   STOCK 

Instruct  the  butcher  to  deliver  all  bones  and  trimmings  removed 
from  roasts;  and  save  all  meats  and  gravies  left  over  from  previous 
meals.  By  so  doing  soup  may  be  at  once  economical  and  good. 

To  every  pound  of  meat  and  bone  use  one  quart  of  cold  water. 
Cut  the  meat  into  pieces  and  ask  the  butcher  to  crush  the  large 
bones,  so  that  the  gelatine  and  fat  may  be  fully  extracted.  Put  all 
in  a  covered  kettle  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  When  the  water  be- 
comes red  bring  the  kettle  forward  and  let  it  heat  slowly.  Keep 
the  water  below  the  boiling  point  for  three  or  four  hours.  If  more 
water  is  needed,  add  boiling  water.  It  is  not  necessary  to  remove 
the  scum  that  rises. 

Stock  should  be  prepared  at  least  one  day  before  it  is  to  be  used, 
so  that  the  fat  on  the  top  may  harden  and  be  removed.  Do  not 
remove  the  fat  until  it  is  necessary,  however,  as  it  aids  in  keeping 
the  stock  sweet. 

VEGETABLE  STOCK 

1  carrot  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  onion  4  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  Btalk  celery  2  quarts  cold  water 

2  turnips  2  bay  leaves 

2  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

Chop  the  carrot,  onion,  celery,  turnips  and  tomatoes  very  fine. 
Put  the  sugar  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  brown  add 

29  ™ 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


the  olive  oil  and  the  vegetables.  Add  the  water  and  season  to 
taste.  Let  it  simmer  for  one  or  two  hours;  strain  and  stand  aside 
to  cool. 

CREAM  STOCK 

1  pint  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

Red  or  black  pepper 

Melt  the  butter  over  the  fire  and  add  the  flour,  being  careful  not 
to  let  it  brown.  Add  the  milk  gradually,  stirring  constantly  to 
prevent  lumps;  then  add  the  seasoning. 

This  cream  sauce  is  used  instead  of  stock  as  the  foundation  for 
many  soups. 

CONSOMME 

2  pounds  lean  beaf  1  stalk  celery 

1  small  knuckle  veal  1  small  carrot 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  bay  leaf 

1  small  onion  •  2  quarts  cold  water 

The  under  part  of  the  round  of  beef  is  the  best  for  this  soap, 
though  any  lean  portions  will  do.  Cut  the  beef  and  veal  into 
small  pieces  and  brown  them  in  the  butter  over  a  hot  fire.  Add 
the  cold  water,  onion,  celery,  carrot  and  bay  leaf;  simmer  slowlv 
for  five  or  six  hours  in  a  covered  kettle.  Take  from  the  fire;  cool; 
remove  the  fat;  strain;  reheat  and  serve. 

BEEF  BOUILLON 

6  pounds  beef  and  bone  2  quarts  water 

Pepper  and  salt 

Cut  and  break  the  beef  and  bone,  and  put  it  in  the  water,  letting 
it  simmer  for  five  or  six  hours.  Then  cool  and  strain  through  a 
sieve,  removing  all  fatty  matter  Reheat,  seasoning  to  taste  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

CHICKEN  BROTH 

1  chicken  l/2  cup  rice 

1  quart  cold  water  1  cup  water 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  the  chicken  into  small  pieces  and  place  it  in  a  deep  earthen 
dish;  add  the  quart  of  water;  cover  it  and  set  over  a  kettle  of 


Wanned  for  ft 
Family  of  Four 


boiling  water,  letting  it  steam  until  the  meat  of  the  chicken  has 
become  very  tender.  Strain  off  the  broth  and  let  it  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  remove  the  fat  and  return  the  liquid  to 
the  original  earthen  dish.  Steam  the  rice  in  the  cup  of  water  until 
it  is  soft;  add  it  to  the  broth  and  steam  the  whole  from  one  to  two 
hours  longer, 

CLAM  BOUILLON 

1  dozen  clams  In  shells  I  pint  milk 

2  cups  water  V2  tablespoon  butter 

Salt  and  red  pepper 

Scrub  the  clams  and  put  them  in  a  covered  vessel  over  the  fire 
in  the  water.  Heat  the  milk  separately.  Boil  the  clams  until  the 
shells  open;  fill  bouillon  cups  half  full  of  broth;  then  pour  in  the 
milk,  to  which  the  butter  and  seasoning  have  been  added. 


OYSTER  BOUILLON 

25  oysters  1  pint  milk 

1  cup  water  l/z  tablespoon  butter 

Salt  and  red  pepper 

Wash  the  oysters;  chop  them  fine;  cover  with  water  or  oyster 
juice  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  one  hour,  closely  covered; 
strain  through  a  sieve;  add  the  milk,  separately  heated,  and  the 
butter  and  seasoning.  Serve  in  bouillon  cups, 


OYSTER  SOUP  No.  1 

25  oysters  and  juice  Salt  and  pepper 

1  pint  milk  1  hard  boiled  egg 

1  ounce  butter  1  soda  cracker  rolled 

Vi  cup  chopped  celery 

Boil  the  milk  and  set  it  aside.  Bring  the  oyster  juice  to  a  boil 
and  remove  the  scum.  Put  the  oysters  over  the  fire  with  the  juice 
and  the  butter;  let  them  simmer  until  the  edges  begin  to  curl; 
add  the  boiled  milk;  bring  all  to  a  boil  and  add  the  seasoning — 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  the  cracker  and  celery  with  the  egg, 
finely  chopped;  put  these  into  a  tureen  and  pour  the  soup  over 
them. 

31  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  ot  Four 


OYSTER   SOUP  No.  2 

25  oysters  and  juice  i  pint  cream  stock 

Drain  the  oysters  through  a  colander;  strain  the  juice  through 
a  fine  sieve;  bring  to  a  boil;  skim;  and  when  clear  add  the  oysters, 
washing  them  first  to  remove  bits  of  shell.  Let  them  cook  slowly 
until  the  edges  begin  to  curl;  add  the  cream  stock  and  serve* 

CLAM  SOUP 

25  small  clams  l/2  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

1  pint  milk  1  rolled  cracker 

Pinch  of  mace  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  hard-boiled  egg  l/2  teaspoon  flour 

Wash  the  clam  shells  very  clean;  place  them  in  a  pan  in  the 
oven  for  about  five  minutes,  or  until  the  shells  open;  then  remove 
them  from  the  shells,  saving  all  the  juice.  Unless  the  clams  are 
small  chop  them  very  fine.  Heat  the  milk;  add  the  juice,  the 
mace,  parsley,  egg,  rolled  cracker,  and  the  butter  mixed  with  the 
flour.  Last  of  all  add  the  clams;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

CHILE  BISQUE 

4  sweet  chile  peppers  1  egg 

*/2  cup  boiled  rice  %  cup  cream 

Tabasco  and  salt  1  pint  hot  milk 

Remove  the  seeds  and  veins  from  the  peppers;  boil  and  press 
the  pulp  through  a  colander.  To  this  add  a  cup  of  boiled  rice, 
mashed  smooth.  Season  highly  with  tabasco  and  salt.  Beat 
the  egg;  add  the  cream,  then  the  hot  milk,  and  pour  all  into  the 
bisque. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO 

2  medium-sized  potatoes  1  bay  leaf 

l/4  tablespoon  chopped  onion  1  sprig  parsiey 

1  pint  cream  stock 

Pare  the  potatoes  and  let  them  soak  in  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour;  then  put  them  in  boiling  water  with  the  bay  leaf  and  onion, 
and  when  soft  drain  off  the  water  and  mash,  saving  the  water  and 
returning  the  mashed  potatoes  to  it.  Strain  through  a  sieve  and 
add  the  cream  stock  slowly.  Just  before  serving  add  the  parsley, 
finely  chopped. 

32  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
f  Four 


CREAM  OF  TOMATO 

1  pint  stewed  or  canned  tomatoes          1  tablespoon  sugar 
1  pint  cream  stock  Pinch  of  baking  soda 

Heat  the  tomatoes;  strain  and  add  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  baking 
soda.  At  the  moment  of  serving  stir  in  the  boiling  cream  sauce, 
very  slowly  to  prevent  curdling.  A  spoonful  of  whipped  cream 
may  be  served  on  the  top  of  each  plate  if  desired. 

CREAM   OF  PEA 

1  cup  cooked  or  canned  peas  1  sprig  mint 

1  cup  water  l/2  bay  leaf 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  pint  cream  stock 

Brown  the  onion  in  the  butter;  add  it  to  the  peas,  mint,  bay 
leaf,  sugar  and  water  and  let  all  simmer  slowly  for  one  half  hour. 
Strain  through  a  fine  sieve;  add  the  cream  sauce  and  serve. 

PEA-POD  SOUP 

2  quarts  pea  pods  1  cup  shredded  lettuce 
1  quart  water        •                                 1  pint  cream  stock 

Put  the^pea  pods  in  the  water  over  the  fire,  adding  the  lettuce 
it  you  have  it,  although  this  is  not  necessary.  Boil  down  to  one 
pint;  strain  and  add  to  the  cream  sauce. 

Left-over  cooked  peas,  pressed  through  a  colander  to  remove 
the  skins,  may  be  added  if  desired, 

CREAM  OF  CELERY 

1  stalk  celery  V2  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

1  pint  boiling  water  V2  bay  leaf 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  3  cups  cream  stock 

Wash  and  scrape  the  celery;  cut  it  into  half-inch  pieces  and 
cook  with  the  water,  salt,  onion  and  bay  leaf  until  thoroughly 
tender.  Mash  in  the  water  in  which  it  has  boiled;  add  the  cream 
sauce  and  serve. 

CREAM   OF  ASPARAGUS 

Proceed  as  with  cream  of  celery  soup,  substituting  one  half 
bundle  of  fresh  asparagus  or  an  equal  amount  of  canned  for  the 

33  M. 


QOTTDQ  Planned  Tor  a 

OU  UJrO  Family  of  Four 

stalk  of  celery.  Or,  the  tips  of  a  bundle  of  asparagus  may  be  cut 
oif  for  table  use  and  the  remainder  used  for  soup.  In  either  case 
the  asparagus  will  be  better  if  mashed  through  a  colander,  thus 
removing  the  woody  portions. 


CREAM   OF  CORN  No.  1 

3  ears  corn  1  bay  leaf 

Water  to  cover  the  corn  1  pint  cream  stock 

Run  a  sharp  knife  down  through  the  center  of  each  row  of  ker- 
nels, and  with  the  back  of  a  knife  press  out  the  pulp,  leaving  the 
husk  on  the  cob.  Break  the  cobs  and  put  them  on  to  boil  in  suf- 
ficient cold  water  to  cover  them.  Boil  thirty  minutes  and  strain 
the  liquor.  Return  the  liquor  to  the  fire,  and  when  boiling  add 
the  corn  pulp  and  bay  leaf.  Cook  fifteen  minutes;  add  the  creani 
sauce  and  serve. 


CREAM   OF  CORN  No.  2 

1  pint  canned  corn  1  bay  leaf 

^ .  1/2  tablespoon  chopped  onion  1  pint  cream  stock 

Cook  the  corn,  onion  and  bay  leaf  for  fifteen  minutes;   add  the 
cream  sauce  and  serve 


CREAM   OF  SPINACH 

1  quart  spinach  l/2  table*Mooon  chopped  onidi, 

1  pint  creani  stock 

Wash  the  spinach  thoroughly;  throw  it  into  a  dry  kettle  and 
place  over  the  fire,  stirring  until  the  spinach  is  wilted.  Dram  the 
spinach,  saving  the  water;  chop  it  very  fine;  return  it  to  the  water; 
add  the  onion  and  cook  until  thoroughly  done,  adding  a  little  more 
water  if  necessary.  Mash  in  the  same  water;  strain  and  add  the 
juice  to  the  hot  cream  sauce. 


CREAM   OF  LETTUCE 

Follow  the  recipe  for  cream  of  spinach,  substituting  one  head  of 
lettuce  for  the  quart  of  spinach, 

34  H-L 


Planned  lor  a 
Family  of  Four 


MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP 

1  calf's  head  1  lemon 

3  quarts  water  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
6  potatoes                                2  tablespoons  butter 

2  hard-boiled  eggs  l/2  tablespoon  sweet  marjoram 

Salt  and  pepper 

Clean  the  calf's  head  thoroughly  and  boil  it  in  the  water  until 
tender;  then  pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  cut  it  into  small 
pieces.  Add  the  potatoes  cut  into  small  dice,  the  eggs,  chopped, 
the  lemon  juice,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  butter:  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  sweet  marjoram;  use  drop  dumplings  if  desired. 

GUMBO  SOUP 

1  pound  beef  1  small  carrot 

1  quart  okras  1  large  tomato 

1  small  onion  Pinch  of  cloves 

1  sprig  parsley  Salt  and  pepper 

2  quarts  cold  water 

Cut  the  beef  into  small  pieces;  wash  the  okras  and  cut  them  in 
slices.  Slice  the  onion;  chop  the  parsley;  grate  the  carrot;  and 
cut  the  tomato  into  small  pieces.  Add  the  water  and  seasoning 
and  bring  all  to  a  boil.  Set  aside  to  cool;  skim  off  the  hardened 
fat;  return  to  the  fire  and  let  simmer  slowly  for  four  hours,  closely 
covered. 

BEEF  SOUP 

2  pounds  shin  of  beef  1  teaspoon  sweet  marjoram 

4  tablespoons  butter  2  whole  allspices 
2  onions                                              2  whole  cloves 

2  carrots  Pinch  of  mace 

1  stalk  celery  Salt  and  pepper 

2  bay  leaves  2  quarts  cold  water 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

Cut  the  beef  into  small  pieces;  put  it  in  a  pan  with  the  butter 
and  brown  over  a  hot  fire.  Take  out  the  meat  and  put  it  in  a  large 
kettle  with  the  onions,  carrots  and  celery  all  chopped  fine;  add 
the  seasoning  and  water;  bring  to  a  boil  and  skim  well.  Set  aside 
to  simmer,  closely  covered,  six  or  eight  hours;  then  strain  and  set 
away.  Next  day  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  top  and  boil  half  an 
hour.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little 
cold  water;  boil  three  minutes  and  serve. 

35  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


MUTTON   SOUP 

2  pounds  neck  of  mutton  1  onion 

2  quarts  cold  water  1  tomato 

1  turnip  1  tablespoon  pearl  barley 

Salt  and  pepper 

Put  the  mutton  in  a  kettle  with  the  water,  vegetables  sliced, 
barley  and  seasoning.  Bring  to  a  boil;  skim  off  the  fat  and  scum; 
place  at  the  back  of  the  stove  to  simmer  slowly  for  three  hours. 
Keep  the  vessel  closely  covered. 

TURKEY-BONE   SOUP 

Turkey  bones  2  carrots 

Water  to  cover  bones  1  tablespoon  barley 

1  onion  1  tablespoon  rice 

1  stalk  celery  1  sprig  parsley 

3  potatoes  Pepper  and  salt 

Put  the  turkey  bones  in  a  kettle  and  cover  them  with  water; 
boil  slowly  for  three  hours;  add  the  other  ingredients,  chopping 
the  onCons,  parsley  and  celery  and  cutting  the  potatoes  and  carrots 
into  small  dice.  Boil  until  the  vegetables  are  tender'  season  to 
taste  and  serve. 

CHEESE   SOUP 

3  cups  milk  1  cup  grated  cheese 

1  tablespoon  flour  Salt  and  paprika 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  reserving  a  little  to  mix  with 
the  flour;  add  this  and  cook  thoroughly.  When  reauy  to  servo 
add  the  cheese  and  seasoning. 

OX-TAIL  SOUP 

1  ox-tail  1  stalk  celery 
l/2  tablespoon  drippings  1  bunch  parsley 

2  quarts  cold  water  2  cloves 

I  onion  2  peppercorns 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Cut  ox-tail  into  pieces,  separating  at  the  joints.  Brown  the 
onion  in  the  drippings  of  salt  pork.  Put  the  meat  in  a  kettle  with 
the  water;  when  it  reaches  the  boiling  point  add  the  spices,  the 
onion  and  the  celery  and  parsley  finely  chopped.  Let  simmer  for 
four  hours;  strain  and  cool  and  remove  the  grease.  Reheat;  add 
the  salt  and  serve, 

36  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


PEPPER  POT 

3  pounds  tripe  1  chopped  onion 

2  quarts  water  l/z  tablespoon  sweet  marjoram 

Small  knuckle  of  veal  J/2  bunch  parsley  and  thyme 

Water  to  cover  veal  Salt  and  pepper 

2  potatoes  Dumplings 

Boil  the  tripe  for  six  hours  the  day  previous  to  using  and  save 
the  liquor.  Boil  the  knuckle  of  veal  in  a  separate  vessel  in  suf- 
ficient water  to  cover  it;  when  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones' 
strain  and  add  the  liquor  to  the  tripe  liquor  with  the  seasoning, 
potatoes  and  onion.  Cut  the  tripe  into  pieces  half  an  inch  square^ 
and  the  potatoes  likewise.  Boil  all  together  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  adding  the  dumplings  ten  minutes  before  serving  time. 

MULLAGATAWNY  SOUP 
1  tablespoon  beef  drippings  2  cloves 

1  large  onion  2  peppercorns 

2  quarts  stock  l/2  teaspoon  curry  powder 

2  tablespoons  chopped  carrot  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  chopped  celery  2  tablespoons  boiled  rice 

l/2  lemon  */f  cup  cooked  chicken  or  veal 

Slice  the  onion  and  fry  it  brown  in  the  drippings;  put  it  into 
the  stock,  together  with  the  carrot,  celery,  lemon  juice,  cloves  and 
peppercorns.  Mix  the  curry  powder  and  salt  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  a  little  water,  and  add  that  also.  Simmer  one  hour,  strain 
and  cool;  remove  the  fat;  add  the  chicken  and  rice;  reheat  and 
serve. 

CHICKEN  GUMBO 

1  tablespoon  butter  3  small  tomatoes 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  Less  desirable  pieces  chicken 

1  quart  sliced  okra  Flour 

2  quarts  hot  water  Salt  and  pepper 

Brown  the  onion  in  the  butter;  add  the  okra  and  fry  until  the 
okra  will  rope  from  a  spoon.  Stir  constantly.  Pour  all  into 
the  hot  water  and  boil  down  to  a  quart.  Scald  the  tomatoes; 
peel  them;  cut  into  small  pieces  and  add  to  the  soup.  Next 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour  the  wings,  back,  neck  and  other 
undesirable  portions  of  a  chicken  and  fry  them  a  light  brown.  Lift 
from  the  frying  pan  with  a  fork  and  add  to  the  soup  one  half  hour 
before  serving. 

37  M. 


Q/"VlT|Jp  Planned  for  a 


Family  of  Four 


JULIENNE  SOUP 


1  quart  stock  1  small  onion 

i  small  carrot  1  small  tomato 

1  small  turnip  1  quart  boiling  water 

1  small  potato  1  tablespoon  barley 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  the  vegetables  into  small  pieces,  add  the  water,  barley  and 
reasoning  and  let  all  simmer  slowly  until  the  vegetables  are  tender. 
Add  the  stock;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. 


ECONOMICAL   SOUP 

1  quart  stock  2  cloves 

1  onion  2  peppercorns 

1  small  carrot  1  bay  leaf 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  sprig  parsley 

Water  to  cover  vegetables  Pinch  of  mace 

Leaves  and  root  of  celery  stalk 

Chop  the  vegetables  and  cook  them  together  with  the  herbs 
and  seasoning  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  them.  When  done*  add 
the  stock  and  bring  to  a  boil. 


BARLEY   SOUP 

1  quart  stock  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  barley  1  quart  water 

l/2  saltspoon  pepper 

Wash  the  barley  and  soak  it  in  a  quart  of  water;  cook  in  the 
same  water  until  tender;  drain  and  add  with  the  seasoning  to  the 
boiling  stock. 

Kice,  tapioca  or  sago  may  be  substituted  for  the  barley. 


VERMICELLI  SOUP 

l/2  cup  vermicelli  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  quart  stock  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

l/2  saltspoon  pepper 

Cook  the  vermicelli  about  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water; 
dram  and  add  to  the  boiling  stock,  together  with  the  seasoning. 

Macaroni  may  be  substituted  for  the  vermicelli  if  desired;  but 
it  will  have  to  cook  longer — about  half  an  hour. 

38  L-L 


Planned  for  a                                                                                                           QfYTTTX 
Family  of  Four OUUJr 

NOODLE   SOUP 

1  quart  stock  Vz  teaspoon  salt 

Noodles  J/2  saltspoon  peppet 

Bring  the  stock  to  a  boil;  add  the  noodles  and  seasoning;  let 
both  boil  together  for  about  five  minutes,  and  serve.  The  noodles 
may  be  made  according  to  the  following  directions: 

1  egg 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Sufficient  flour  to  make  stiff  dough 

Beat  the  egg;  add  the  salt;  then  the  flour,  sufficient  to  make  a 
very  stiff  dough.  Knead;  toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board,  and 
roll  as  thin  as  possible.  Cover  with  a  towel  and  set  aside  until  the 
surface  is  dry;  then  roll  like  a  jelly  roll  and  cut  off  thin  slices. 
Dry,  and  when  needed  cook  twenty  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Drain  and  add  to  soup. 

BLACK-BEAN   SOUP 

1  pint  pink  kidney  beans  1  Bermuda  onion,  chopped 

1  quart  liquid  1  button  garlic 

Yi  cup  butter,  oil  or  beef  fat  1  tomato,  sliced 

Soak  the  beans  over  night  and  boil  them  until  tender;  mash 
with  potato  masher  and  return  to  the  water  in  which  they  were 
cooked,  of  which  there  should  be  about  a  quart.  Run  this  puree 
through  a  sieve  to  free  it  from  hulls.  Fry  the  onion  and  garlic  in 
the  fat  until  brown;  adding  the  tomato.  When  well  cooked  strain 
through  a  colander;  add  to  the  puree;  let  simmer  for  ten  minutes, 
and  serve. 

TOMATO   SOUP 

1  pint  stewed  or  canned  tomatoes  1  bay  leaf 

1  pint  water  or  stock  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  small  onion  1  tablespoon  flour 

Salt  and  pepper 

Put  the  tomatoes  over  the  fire  with  the  water,  onion  and  bay 
leaf;  cook  slowly  for  one  half  hour;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve; 
wash  the  saucepan;  return  the  tomatoes  to  it  and  put  again  over 
the  fire.  Add  the  butter  and  flour  well  rubbed  together;  stir  until 
smooth;  season  to  taste  and  serve  with  Croutons. 

39  t-t. 


SOUPS  PIanncd  for  a 


Family  of  Four 


VEGETABLE  SOUP  No.  1 


l  Vs  ounces  butte-  1  cup  beans  or  split  peas 

1  small  onion  2  quarts  water 

l/2  carrot  Pinch  of  mace 

1/2  stalk  celery  1  dozen  allspice 

Sait  and  pepper 

Put  the  butter  in  a  large  kettle  over  a  slow  fire.  While  it  is 
inciting  slice  the  onion,  cut  the  carrot  and  celery  into  small  pieces, 
and  put  them  in  the  butter,  covering  them  closely  until  they  are 
slightly  browned.  Have  ready  the  beans  or  peas  which  have  been 
soaked  in  cold  water  all  night,  and  bring  them  to  a  boil  in  a  quart 
of  water.  When  the  vegetables  are  browned  pour  the  boiling  peas 
over  them;  add  another  quart  of  water;  bring  all  to  a  boil ;  skim 
well  and  add  the  seasoning.  Cover  the  kettle  and  let  it  simmer 
for  three  hours.  Then  strain  the  vegetables  and  press  them 
through  a  colander.  Return  all  to  the  kettle;  bring  to  a  boil  and 
serve. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP  No.  2 

l/2  cup  chopped  enion  1  tablespoon  chopped  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  drippings  ll/%  teaspoons  salt 
1V2  quarts  water  1  saltspoon  pepper 

2  cups  shredded  cabbage  1  tomato 

l/2  cup  chopped  carrot  1  cup  sliced  potato 

1  leek  1  tablespoon  chopped  celery 

Brown  the  oiiiovi  slightly  in  the  butter  or  drippings.  Have  the 
water  boiling  hard  and  add  all  the  vegetables  except  the  potato 
and  tomato.  Boil  rapidly  for  ten  minutes;  then  gently  for  one 
hour.  Add  the  other  ingredients  and  cook  one  hour  longer.  Have 
the  cover  partially  off  the  kettle  during  the  entire  time. 

PIMIENTO   BISQUE 

Vz  cup  rice  */2  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  chicken  stock  %  teaspoon  tabasco  sauce 
3  pimientoes                                       Yolk  of  1  egg 

34  cup  cream 

Wash  the  rice;  cook  with  the  stock  until  tender;  press  through 
a  sieve;  add  the  pimientoes,  likewise  pressed  through  a  sieve,  and 
the  seasonings.  Bring  to  a  boil;  add  the  egg,  beaten  with  the 
cream,  and  serve  in  bouillon  cups  with  Imperial  Sticks 

40  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


CLAM  CHOWDER 

l/2  peck  of  clams  in  shell  1  quart  hot  milk 

3  potatoes  6  rolled  crackers 

l/2  pound  bacon  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  V&  teaspoon  salt 

l/2  saltspoon  pepper 

Wash  the  clams  and  place  them  over  the  fire  in  a  large  covered 
kettle,  with  sufficient  water  to  keep  the  under  ones  from  burning. 
When  the  shells  at  the  top  have  opened,  remove  all  the  clams,  ana 
when  cool  enough  to  handle  take  them  from  the  shells.  Remove 
the  skins  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  leaving  the  soft  part  whole. 
Let  the  liquor  settle;  then  pour  off  the  top,  being  careful  not  to 
take  any  of  the  sediment. 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  small  dice  and  parboil  them,  pouring  off 
the  water  afterward.  Cut  the  bacon  in  very  thin  slices  and  fry. 
Remove  the  bacon  and  fry  the  onion  in  the  bacon  fat  and  strain. 
Then  boil  bacon,  onions  and  potatoes  together  until  the  potatoes 
are  tender  Use  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  and 
drain  when  done. 

Reheat  the  clams  and  their  liquor;  add  the  hot  milk,  seasoning, 
rolled  crackers,  bacom,  onion  and  potatoes;  let  all  simmer  together 
for  five  minutes;  add  the  parsley  and  serve. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

1  ounce  salt  pork  1  cup  boiling  water 

2  potatoes  1  pint  can  corn 
1  small  onion                                          1  pint  hot  milk 

Salt  and  pepper 

Pare  and  slice  the  potatoes  and  onion.  Cut  the  pork  into  small 
dice  and  put  over  the  fire,  cooking  until  crisp  and  brown ;  then 
add  the  potatoes,  onion  and  boiling  water.  Boil  for  one  half 
hour;  add  the  hot  milk,  corn  and  seasoning;  bring  all  to  a  boil 
and  serve. 

TO  SERVE  WITH  SOUP 

Croutons 

Cut  bread  into  half-inch  slices;  remove  the  crusts  and  cut  into 
cubes;  put  in  shallow  pans  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Buttering 
the  bread  will  improve  the  flavor  and  insure  quick  browning. 

41  I^L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


Pulled  Bread 

Place  a  loaf  of  baker's  bread  in  a  baking  pan  and  cover  it  witL 
a  tin  plate.  Let  it  remain  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  heated  through;  then  with  a  fork  remove  tne 
crust  and  tear  the  soft  part  into  large  ragged  pieces.  Spread 
these  pieces  in  a  pan  and  place  them  in  a  hot  oven  until  crisp 
and  brown. 

This  is  the  bread  frequently  recommended  for  dyspeptics,  but 
is  delicious  served  in  the  place  of  crackers. 

Imperial  Sticks 

Cut  stale  bread  into  one-third-inch  slices  and  remove  the 
crusts.  Spread  both  sides  thinly  with  butter;  cut  into  narrow 
strips  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  with  soup  in  place  of 
croutons  or  crackers. 


42 


FISH 


There  be  an  good  fish  in  the  sea  as  ever  yet  were  caught. 

— Proverb. 


14 


FISH 

impression  that  fish,  because  they  are  rich  in  phosphorus, 
•*-  are  particularly  good  food  for  brain  workers,  is  not  neces- 
sarily true.  The  fact  that  they  are  easily  digested,  especially 
the  white-fleshed  kinds,  may  partially  account  for  this  reputation. 
Coming  into  their  prime,  as  they  do,  at  the  end  of  winter  when  the 
system  is  meat-weary,  and  bringing  with  them  the  refreshing 
flavor  of  the  sea,  fish  afford  a  pleasant  and  welcome  change  of  diet. 

Fresh  fish  have  firm  flesh,  bright  eyes  and  gills,  and  do  not  have 
an  offensive  odor.  In  stale  fish  there  is  danger  of  ptomaine  poison- 
ing. This  danger  is  greatest  in  fish  which  have  been  preserved 
frozen,  and  have  been  kept  for  some  time  after  thawing. 

If  fish  have  not  been  cleaned  when  they  come  from  the  market, 
clean  them  immediately.  Wash,  wipe,  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 
If  placed  in  the  refrigerator,  slip  the  plate  into  a  paper  bag  to 
keep  the  odor  from  other  food;  or  set  the  plate  on  a  pan  of  ice 
and  keep  it  in  the  cellar. 

Frozen  fish  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  until  thawed,  and 
then  removed.  Soak  salt  fish  in  fresh  water,  skin  side  up,  to  draw 
out  the  salt. 

White-fleshed  fish,  such  as  shad,  blue-fish,  mackerel,  and  salmon, 
have  fat  distributed  more  or  less  throughout  the  body,  and  are 
seldom  fried.  They  are  usually  baked,  broiled  cr  planked. 

Of  the  Great  Lakes  fish,  white-fish  are  the  finest.  They  are 
cooked  in  various  ways,  but  are  often  planked.  Of  other  fresh 
water  fish,  trout,  black  bass,  and  catfish  are  the  best  known. 

Codfish,  haddock,  and  halibut  may  be  found  in  market  the  year 
around,  but  are  not  really  good  in  June,  July,  August  and  Septem- 
ber. Flounders  are  at  their  best  in  May.  Shad  are  best  in  April 
and  May,  and  are  in  season  only  in  the  spring  and  early  summer. 
Blue-fish  come  in  summer  and  early  autumn. 

45  I>-L 


FISH  Planned  lot  a 

JX1 Family  of  Four 

Of  bivalves  (shell-fish),  oysters  and  scallops  are  winter  fish; 
clams  are  year  around,  being  much  used  in  summer  when  oysters 
are  out  of  season.  Of  crustaceans  (crust-fish),  lobsters  are  to  be 
found  in  market  throughout  the  year,  but  are  best  from  June  to 
September.  Crabs  also  are  best  in  summer.  Soft-shell  crabs  are 
so  called  because  they  have  shed  their  hard  shells,  and  have  been 
caught  before  their  new  shells  harden, 

CLEANING  FISH 

To  remove  the  scales  hold  the  fish  by  the  tail  and  scrape  firmly 
toward  the  head  with  a  small  sharp  knife,  held  with  the  blade 
slanting  toward  the  tail.  Scrape  slowly  so  that  the  scales  will  not 
fly,  and  rinse  the  knife  frequently  in  cold  water. 

If  the  fish  is  to  be  served  whole,  leave  the  head  and  tail  on  and 
trim  the  fins;  otherwise  remove  them. 

To  open  small  fish  make  an  incision  under  the  gills  and  squeeze 
out  the  contents  by  pressing  upward  from  the  middle  with  the 
thumb  and  finger.  To  open  large  fish  split  them  from  the  gills 
half  way  down  the  body  toward  the  tail;  remove  the  entrails 
and  scrape  and  clean,  opening  far  enough  to  remove  all  the  blood 
from  the  backbone,  and  wiping  the  inside  thoroughly  with  a  cloth 
wrung  out  of  cold,  salted  water. 

To  skin  a  fish  remove  the  fins  along  the  back  and  cut  off  a  narrow 
strip  of  the  skin  the  entire  length  of  the  back.  Then  slip  the  knife 
under  the  skin  that  lies  over  the  bony  part  of  the  gills  and  work 
slowly  toward  the  tail.  Do  the  same  with  the  other  side. 

To  bone  a  fish  clean  it  first  and  remove  the  head.  Then,  begin- 
ning at  the  tail,  run  a  sharp  knife  under  the  flesh  close  to  the  bone, 
scraping  the  flesh  away  clean  from  the  bone.  Work  up  one  side 
toward  the  head;  then  repeat  the  same  process  on  the  other  side 
of  the  bone.  Lift  the  bone  carefully  and  pull  out  any  small  bones 
that  may  be  left  in  the  flesh 

BOILED  FISH 

Wipe  the  fish  carefully  and  if  fresh,  sprinkle  thoroughly  with 
salt.  Wrap  it  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  to  hold  the  fish  together 
and  to  prevent  the  scum  from  clinging  to  the  fish,  and  place  it  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  adding  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon 
of  vinegar  to  every  two  quarts  of  water,  also  a  slice  of  onion,  a  bay 

40  L-L 


Planned  tor  • 
Family  of  Four 


leaf  and  a  sprig  of  parsley  Cook  slowly,  following  the  time 
table  in  the  front  of  the  book  ;  lift  and  drain  carefully;  open  the 
cloth  and  turn  the  fish  upon  the  serving  platter,  garnishing  with 
parsley  and  slices  of  lemonr  The  fish  is  done  when  the  flesh  is 
firm  and  separates  easily  from  the  bone* 

As  fish  used  for  boiling  has  Jittle  fat  and  is  cooked  in  none,  it 
needs  a  rich  sauce  to  make  it  palatable.  Drawn  butter^  egg, 
Hollandaise  and  Bechamel  sauces  are  used* 

BAKED  USB 

Wash  and  dry  the  fish,  rubbing  inside  and  out  with  salt;  stuff 
with  forcemeat  or  bread  stuffing  and  sew0  Cut  gashes  two  inches 
apart  on  both  sides,  alternating,  and  into  each  slip  a  narrow  strip 
of  salt  fat  pork.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place  in  a  hot 
oven  without  water.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  brown  add  hot  water 
and  butter  and  baste  every  ten  minutes*  Bake  until  done,  allow- 
ing an  hour  or  more  for  a  large  fish,  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  for 
a  email  one.  Remove  to  a  hot  platter;  draw  out  the  strings;  wipe 
off  all  water  or  fat  and  remove  pork;  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon 
well  covered  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve  with  Hollandaise 
sauce, 

BROILED  FISH 

For  broiling  large  fish  should  be  split  down  the  back  and  head 
and  tail  removed;  salmon  and  halibut  should  be  cut  into  one-inch 
slices,  and  smelts  and  other  small  fish  left  whole.  Wipe  the  fish 
as  dry  as  possible;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  if  the  fish 
is  dry  and  white  brush  the  flesh  side  well  with  olive  oil  or  butter. 
Put  in  a  well-greased  broiler,  placing  the  thickest  parts  of  the  fish 
toward  the  middle  or  back  of  the  broiler,  Hold  over  a  hot  fire 
until  the  flesh  side  is  nicely  browned;  then  cook  the  skin  side  just 
long  enough  to  make  the  skin  crisp.  Small  fish  require  from  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes,  large  fish  from  fifteen  to  twenty-five.  To  remove 
from  the  broiler  loosen  one  side  first,  then  the  other,  and  lift  care- 
fully with  a  cake  turner.  Place  on  a  platter;  spread  with  butter 
and  stand  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Garnish  with  lemon  and 
serve  with  Maitre  d'Hdtel  sauce. 

FRIED  FISH 

Wash  and  dry  the  fish;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  in  fine 
bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  again* 


FISTT  Planned  for  a 

~ Family  of  Four 

Place  the  fish  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  hot  fat,  preferably  olive 
oil.  Be  sure  that  the  fat  is  hot;  test  it  by  lowering  a  small  piece 
of  bread;  if  it  browns  in  thirty  seconds  the  fat  is  sufficiently  hot. 
Put  only  a  few  pieces  of  fish  in  the  basket  at  a  time  and  remove 
them  as  soon  as  they  are  brown.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
with  Tartare  sauce. 

SHAD  ROE 

Shad  roe  may  be  baked,  broiled  or  fried.  To  broil,  wipe  dry; 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and  cook  five  minutes  on  each  side. 
Butter  well  and  stand  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes;  then  serve 
garnished  with  parsley  and  lemon.  To  fry,  proceed  as  with  fish, 
but  cook  the  roe  for  ten  minutes  first  in  boiling  water. 

BAKED   SHAD 

Clean  and  split  a  three-pound  shad,  placing  it  skin  side  down 
in  a  baking  pan.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  spread  with 
butter  and  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  bake  twenty-five  or  thirty 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

PLANKED   SHAD 

Clean  and  split  a  three-pound  shad.  Heat  the  plank  very  hot; 
lay  the  fish  upon  it,  skin  side  down.  Brush  the  flesh  carefully 
over  with  olive  oil  or  butter;  then  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Bake  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  It  may  be  cooked  in  a  gas 
range,  having  the  flame  over  the  fish.  When  cooked  pour  over  the 
fish  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Garnish  with  parsley,  quarters  of  lemon,  and  mashed  potatoes. 
Shape  the  potatoes  by  means  of  a  forcing  bag  and  star  tube; 
brush  over  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg;  then  brown  in  the  oven.  Set 
the  plank  on  a  serving  dish  and  serve. 

PLANKED   HALIBUT 

Trim  the  ends  of  a  solid  piece  of  halibut,  weighing  about  four 
pounds  and  cut  the  entire  width  of  the  fish.  Peel  and  slice  three 
onions  into  a  baking  pan,  and  on  these  lay  the  halibut.  Squeeze 
the  juice  of  a  small  lemon  over  it;  put  some  pieces  of  butter  on  the 
top;  pour  in  a  cup  of  white  stock,  to  which  has  been  added  a  table- 
spoon of  vinegar.  Bake  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  baste 
several  times  with  the  liquid  in  the  pan.  Add  a  little  salt. 

48  L-L 


SOLE  COD  FLOUNDER 


Planned  lor  6  TTTCTT 

Family  of  Four  J  J.OX1 

When  ready  lift  out  the  fish  on  to  a  hot  plank.  Put  some  hot 
mashed  potatoes  through  a  forcing  bag  round  the  fish,  brush 
with  beaten  egg,  and  return  to  a  hot  oven  to  brown  the  potatoes. 
Fill  up  the  space  between  the  fish  and  potatoes  with  hot  vegetables. 
Decorate  with  pieces  of  cooked  cucumber,  which  have  the  centers 
removed  and  filled  with  cooked  and  seasoned  peas. 


BAKED  FILLETS   OF  HALIBUT 

Cut  the  halibut  into  small  fillets;  season  and  place  in  a  shallow 
pan,  covered  with  buttered  paper.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with  Hollan- 
daise  saucea 

FRIED  SMELTS 

Clean  the  smelts,  leaving  on  the  heads  and  tails.  Sprinkle  weli 
with  salt,  pepper  and  flour;  dip  in  egg,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  and 
serve  with  Tartare  sauce. 


SALT-FISH  DINNER 
f 

1  pound  codfish  2  tablespoons  fat 
V2  pound  salt  pork  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  skim  milk  Speck  of  salt 

Dash  of  red  pepper 

Cut  the  codfish  in  strips;  soak  in  lukewarm  water  and  cook 
below  the  boiling  point  until  tender.  Cut  the  pork  into  one-fourth 
inch  slices;  cut  several  gashes  in  each  piece;  fry  slowly  until 
golden  brown  and  remove,  pouring  off  the  fat.  Out  of  two  table- 
spoons of  the  fat,  the  flour,  seasoning  and  milk  make  a  cream  sauce. 
Put  the  codfish  on  a  platter  with  pieces  of  pork  around  it;  and  serve 
with  boiled  potaoes  and  the  cream  sauce, 

CODFISH 

Let  the  fish  soak  in  cold  water  for  four  or  five  hours  to  draw 
out  the  salt;  wash  the  fish  very  clean;  put  it  in  a  kettle  with  cold 
water;  bring  to  a  boil;  then  stand  aside  where  it  will  keep  just 
below  boiling  temperature.  When  perfectly  tender,  drain;  put 
on  a  platter  and  cover  with  cream  sauce, 

49  L-L 


rlannsd  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


CODFISH  BALLS 

1  cup  codfish  1  tablespoon  soft  butter 

V/2  cups  mashed  potato  Dash  of  pepper 

Yolk  of  1  egg  White  of  1  egg 
Flour 

Wash  the  fish  in  cold  water  and  pull  in  small  pieces;  mix  with 
the  potatoes.  Beat  the  egg;  stir  to  a  paste  with  the  butter;  add 
pepper,  then  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Turn  in  the  fish 
and  potato;  mix  well  with  a  fork;  flour  the  hands  and  roll  thr 
mixture  into  round  balls.  Flatten  to  one-half  inch  thickness  and 
fry  in  hot  fat. 

SALMON   SURPRISE 

can  salmon  1  cup  cream  sauce 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes 

Remove  the  salmon  from  the  can;  place  it  in  a  colander  and  wash 
under  running  water.  Break  into  small  pieces;  mix  thoroughly 
with  hot  cream  sauce  and  pour  into  a  baking  dish.  Cover  with 
mashed  potatoes  and  bake  until  the  potatoes  are  browned. 


CREAMED   SALMON 
1  can  salmon  1  cup  cream  sauce 

Remove  the  salmon  from  the  can;  place  it  in  a  colander  and  wash 
under  running  water  or  scald  with  boiling  water.  Break  into 
suiaU  pieces;  stir  into  the  hot  cream  sauce;  bring  all  to  a  boil 
and  serve  in  patty  cups  or  on  toasted  bread  or  crackers. 

FRIED   SCALLOPS 

Clean  the  scallops;  cook  until  they  begin  to  shrivel;  drain  and 
dry  between  towels.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper; 
dip  in  beaten  egg;  roll  again  in  crumbs  and  lower  for  a  minute 
or  two  into  very  hot  fat.  Drain  on  paper  and  serve. 

CLAMS 

Clams  may  be  stewed,  panned  or  cooked  in  other  ways  like 
oysters.  They  are  also  good  made  into  fritters. 

50  *-*• 


Planned  tor  a 
Family  of  Four 


CLAM  FRITTERS 

3  eggs  1  cup  flour 

Vfe  cup  milk  25  clams 

Beat  the  eggs;  add  the  flour  gradually  with  the  milk,  beating 
until  perfectly  smooth  Chop  the  clams;  drain  off  the  juice; 
stir  them  into  the  batter;  mix  thoroughly  and  drop  into  boiling 
hot  fat 

CREAMED  CLAMS 

2  dozen  clams  %  cup  clam  juice 

1  tablespoon  butter  Vfe  cup  rich  cream 

1  tablespoon  flour  Salt  and  paprika 

Chop  the  clams  fine.  Melt  the  butter  and  cook  the  flour  in  it; 
add  the  clams  and  juice;  simmer  for  ten  minutes  and  add  the 
cream.  Bring  to  a  boil;  season  and  serve  with  thin  slices  of  but- 
tered toast. 

FRIED   OYSTERS 

Select  large  oysters;  drain  them  and  dry  between  soft  towels, 
Dip  each  oyster  in  beaten  egg  until  it  is  thoroughly  coated;  then 
roll  in  cracker  dust  or  fine  bread  crumbs  well  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Lay  the  oysters  in  a  wire  basket,  a  few  at  a  time,  and 
lower  them  into  boiling  hot  fat.  Test  the  fat  by  lowering  a  piece 
of  stale  bread  into  it;  if  it  browns  in  thirty  seconds  the  fat  is 
sufficiently  hot;  if  it  burns  the  fat  is  too  hot.  Fry  the  oysters  a 
delicate  brown;  drain  them  over  the  fat;  then  lay  on  brown  paper 
in  the  oven  until  serving  time. 

Olive  oil  is  best  for  frying,  though  suetine,  cottolene,  crisco, 
or  a  mixture  of  suet  and  lard  brings  good  results.  Butter  alone  or 
lard  alone  should  never  be  used. 


OYSTER  PIE 

40  large  oysters  */2  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

2  hard-boiled  eggs  %  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  3  tablespoons  flour 

Little  grated  nutmeg  4  tablespoons  butter 

Put  the  oysters  over  the  fire  hi  their  own  liquor;  add  the  other 
ingredients,  rubbing  the  butter  to  a  paste  with  the  flour  first. 
Stir  until  the  butter  is  thoroughly  melted:  then  DOUT  into  a  deep 

51  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
FamUy  of  Four 


pudding  dish,  the  sides  of  which  are  lined  with  half  puff-paste. 
Have  an  inverted  cup  in  the  center  of  the  dish  to  support  the  top 
crust;  cover  with  paste;  fasten  the  edges  securely  and  make  a 
few  slashes  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
for  about  a  half  hour.  When  brown  on  the  top,  cover  with  paper  to 
prevent  the  crust  from  burning. 


SCALLOPED   OYSTERS 

Butter  a  baking  dish  and  fill  it  with  alternate  layers  of  oysters 
and  bread  crumbs,  making  the  bottom  layer  oysters  and  the  top 
layer  crumbs.  Season  each  layer  of  crumbs  thoroughly  and 
dot  with  small  pieces  of  butter.  When  the  dish  is  full  moisten 
with  equal  parts  of  oyster  juice  and  milk. 


CREAMED  OYSTERS 

1  pint  oysters  1  tablespoon  butter 

milk  Salt  and  pepper 

tablespoons  flour  Dash  of  celery  salt 


3/4  cup 
ll/2  ta 


Heat  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  removing  the  scum  that 
rises.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  separate  pan;  stir  in  the  flour;  add  the 
milk  gradually,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  lumps.  Pour  the 
oysters  into  the  cream  sauce  thus  made  and  just  before  serving 
add  the  seasoning.  Serve  in  patty  shells  or  on  buttered  toast. 

OYSTER  STEW 

1  pint  oysters  and  juice  Salt  and  red  pepper 

1  pint  hot  milk  or  cream  1  ounce  butter 

Put  the  oysters  over  the  fire  in  their  own  liquor;  the  moment 
they  come  to  a  boil,  skim  carefully  and  add  the  hot  milk  or  cream. 
Skim  again;  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  butter  and  seasoning. 


SHIRRED  OYSTERS 

Place  small  squares  of  toast  in  a  pan  and  on  each  as  many  oysters 
as  it  will  hold,  well  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter. 
Cover  the  pan  and  cook  the  oysters  in  the  oven  until  they  are  plump 
and  curled  at  the  edges.  Serve  immediately. 

f>2  L-L 


HOW   TO    SPLIT   AND   DRESS   LOBSTER 


Planned  Tor  a  IMQT3 

Family  of  Four  -T  AOn 

PANNED   OYSTERS 

25  oysters  Juice  of  %  iemon 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Squares  of  toast 

Melt  the  butter  over  the  fire;  add  the  lemon  juice,  then  the 
drained  oysters.  Cook  until  the  edges  begin  to  curl;  season  and 
serve  on  small  squares  of  toast. 

BROILED   OYSTERS 

Wash  the  oysters  and  dry  them  with  a  soft  towel.  Dip  them 
in  melted  butter  and  lay  them  on  a  broiler  which  has  been  well 
greased  with  salt  pork  or  butter.  Broil  on  both  sides  for  a  few 
minutes;  lay  on  buttered  toast  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter. 

Oysters  cooked  on  both  sides  on  a  buttered  gridiron  have  the 
flavor  of  broiled  oysters,  and  are  more  easily  prepared. 

TERRAPIN 

Drop  the  live  terrapin  in  hot  water  and  boil  until  the  skin  can 
be  pulled  from  the  legs.  When  cool,  take  off  the  shells;  pull  out 
the  claws;  open  the  body  and  remove  carefully  the  sand  bag 
and  gall,  being  careful  not  to  break  them;  also  the  entrails,  lights, 
heart,  head,  tail  and  white  muscles.  The  remainder  of  the  terra- 
pin is  to  be  used  when  cut  into  small  pieces. 

STEWED  TERRAPIN 

1  terrapin  Yolk  of  1  egg 

l/4  pound  butter  Salt  and  cayenne 

1V2  tablespoons  flour  Pinch  of  mace 

l/4  cup  cream  1  tablespoon  currant  jelly 

Rub  the  butter  in  the  flour  and  add  it  to  the  terrapin;  add  the 
cream  in  which  the  egg  has  been  beaten,  salt,  cayenne,  mace  and 
jelly.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

LOBSTER 

Select  a  live  lobster  of  medium  size  but  heavy  in  proportion  to 
its  size.  If  the  tail  springs  back  qukkly  when  straightened,  the 
lobster  is  fresh. 

5  53  L-L 


Planned  for  » 
Family  o£  Four 


To  kill  a  lobster  grasp  it  by  the  back  and  put  its  head  under 
hot  water;  then  its  body,  and  quickly  cover  the  kettle.  The 
lobster  will  die  immediately,  but  should  remain  in  the  water  about 
twenty  minutes,  boiling  all  the  time. 

The  meat  should  not  be  eaten  until  cold  and  should  never  be 
kept  more  than  eighteen  hours  after  cooking.  It  should  not  be 
removed  from  the  shell  until  it  is  to  be  used. 

Remove  the  meat  from  the  shell,  discarding  the  gills,  stomach 
and  intestines.  Garnish  with  small  clams  and  lettuce  leaves. 

PLANKED  LOBSTER 

To  plank  a  lobster  heat  the  plank  very  hot.  Kill  the  lobster 
by  splitting  it  into  halves,  lay  it  on  the  plank  shell  side  down;  put 
it  under  the  gas  for  twenty  minutes;  baste  with  butter;  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Garnish  with  small 
fried  French  potato  balls  and  grated  cucumber  in  tiny  lettuce 
leaves. 

DEVILED  CRABS 

6  crabs  %  cup  cream 

1  hard-boiled  egg  Salt  and  cayenne 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  sweet  marjoram 
Grated  nutmeg  Cracker  dust 

1  raw  egg 

Put  the  crabs  into  hot  water;  add  salt  and  boil  for  thirty 
minutes.  Or,  buy  crab  meat  already  picked  and  ask  the  dealer 
for  six  shells.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces;  add  the  hard- 
boiled  egg,  cream,  butter  and  seasoning  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes 
over  a  hot  fire,  thickening  the  mixture  with  cracker  dust.  Fill 
the  shells;  dip  them  in  the  raw  egg,  beaten;  then  in  cracker 
crumbs;  place  in  a  hot  oven  or  drop  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  until 
brown* 

FROGS 

Only  the  hind  quarters  of  frogs  are  cooked.  Wash  and  dry 
them;  skin  and  dip  them  in  milk;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and 
flour  and  fry  in  boiling  hot  fat.  Or  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
butter,  a  sprinkling  of  flour  and  pepper  and  salt.  Shake  over 
the  fire  for  a  moment;  add  a  little  water;  simmer  until  tender 
and  almost  dry;  then  add  a  cup  of  cream  and  a  large  lump  of 
butter  rubbed  together  with  a  little  flour.  Bring  to  a  boil  and 
serve. 

64  I^L 


MEATS 


Some  hue  meat  and  canna  eat; 

And  some  wad  eat  that  want  it; 
But  we  hae  meat,  and  we  can  eat; 

So  let  the  Lord  be  thankit. 

— ROBERT  BURNS:   Grace  before  Meat. 


56 


MEATS 

THE  following  are  the  words  of  a  noted  dietitian  in  the  employ- 
ment of  the  United  States  Government: 

"  The  custom  of  serving  meat  at  each  meal  should  be  discouraged. 
Deficiency  of  protein  need  not  be  feared  when  one  good  meat  dish 
a  day  is  served,  especially  if  such  food  as  eggs,  milk,  cheese,  and 
beans  are  used  instead.  In  localities  where  fish  can  be  obtained 
fresh  and  cheap,  it  should  be  more  frequently  substituted  for  meat 
for  the  sake  of  variety  as  well  as  economy.  Ingenious  cooks  have 
many  ways  of  *  extending  the  flavor'  of  meat;  that  is,  of  combin- 
ing a  small  quantity  with  other  material  to  make  a  large  dish, 
as  in  meat  pies,  stews  and  similar  dishes." 

As  to  Digestibility. — Animal  protein  is  more  easily  digested  than 
vegetable  protein,  such  as  found  in  beans  and  peas,  for  flesh  foods 
are  more  like  the  human  body,  and  do  not  have  to  undergo  the 
same  amount  of  chemical  change  as  do  vegetable  foods;  but  the 
drainage  of  the  body  is  taxed  by  flesh  eating,  and  certainly  too 
much  meat  is  a  mistake.  When  used,  meat  should  form  only  one- 
fifth,  or,  at  most,  one-fourth  of  a  well-balanced  meal.  This 
subject  is  further  discussed  in  the  chapter  on  "  Balanced  Rations, " 
page  417. 

As  to  Cost. — Meat  is  the  most  expensive  food  used  in  most  house- 
holds. There  is  no  need  for  buying  the  most  expensive  cuts.  "  The 
best  is  the  cheapest,"  does  not  apply  to  foods.  The  most  economi- 
cal food  is  that  which  supplies  the  most  nutriment  for  the  least 
money.  Prices  are  not  regulated  according  to  their  nutritive 
value,  but  according  to  attractiveness  and  scarceness.  The  nutri- 
ment in  an  ounce  of  tenderloin  is  no  more  than  that  of  an  ounce  of 
the  round  or  shoulder.  "Much  more  depends  upon  the  art  and 
skill  of  the  cook  than  upon  sums  laid  out  in  the  market,"  said 
Count  Rumford. 

57  L-L 


1.  Neck 

2.  Chuck 
8.  Hibs 

4.  Shoulder  clod 

&  Fore  shank 

6.  Brisket 

7.  Cross  ribs 

8  Plate 

9  Navel 

10.  Loin 

11.  Flank 

12.  Hump 
IS,  Round 

14.  Second  cut  rounc* 

I6i  Hind  shank 


DIAGRAM  OF  CUTS  OF  BEEF 
58 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


The  time  required  for  digestion  of  beet'  and  mutton  is  about  the 
same.  Pork  is  the  most  difficult  of  meats  to  digest,  and  is  better 
for  the  use  of  people  who  do  manual  labor  than  for  those  who 
exercise  little.  The  flesh  of  young  animals  is  tender,  but  is  less 
nutritious  than  that  of  older  ones.  Beef  and  mutton  are  tfound 
in  the  markets  the  year  round.  Veal  and  lamb  are  in  season  in 
the  spring.  Pork  should  not  be  used  in  hot  weather. 

The  methods  of  cutting  meats  differ  in  different  localities,  but 
the  diagrams  in  this  chapter  give  the  housekeeper  an  idea  of  the 
general  divisions.  As  a  rule,  the  more  tender  portions  of  unused 
muscles  lie  just  below  the  back  of  the  animal,  but  the  tenderness 
decreases  downward,  toward  the  legs,  and  toward  the  head. 

Never  wash  fresh  meat.     Wipe  it  with  a  damp  cloth, 

Roasting 

Meats  are  "roasted"  before  an  open  fire,  and  "baked"  in  a 
closed  oven,  although  as  a  matter  of  convenience  the  oven  method 
is  now  commonly  used.  The  chief  point  to  remember  is  that  the 
meat  should  be  quickly  browned  in  order  that  the  crust  thus  formed 
may  retain  the  juices.  The  oven  should  therefore  be  hot  when 
the  meat  is  put  in  and  the  heat,  if  possible,  gradually  reduced. 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,  but  do  not  wash  it.  Sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  just  a  little  flour,  and  put  in  a  pan 
with  a  small  piece  of  fat  or  drippings.  When  the  meat  is  seared, 
add  a  little  water  and  baste  every  ten  minutes.  When  one  side  is 
thoroughly  browned,  turn  over  and  brown  the  other  side.  When 
done,  remove  the  roast;  pour  off  almost  all  of  the  fat  and  make  a 
brown  sauce  according  to  the  directions  in  the  chapter  on 
"Sauces." 

If  the  meat  is  very  lean  it  is  a  good  plan  to  lay  thin  slices  of  fat 
meat,  bacon  or  pork  over  the  top. 

Broiling 

The  object  of  boiling  is  to  coagulate  as  quickly  as  possible  all 
the  albumen  on  the  surface  of  the  meat,  sealing  up  the  pores  so 
that  none  of  the  juices  may  escape.  It  is  therefore  a  good  plan  to 
warm  the  gridiron  before  putting  on  the  meat  so  that  none  of  the 
heat  may  be  conducted  away.  The  broiling  should  be  done  ovet 

59  L-L 


MEATS  Planned  for  • 

O.TXJVAJ.O ^ Family  of  Four 

a  clear  fire  at  least  two  inches  away  from  the  gridiron.  Meat 
cooked  by  this  method  is  more  wholesome  than  meat  cooked  in 
any  other  way;  ^  but  if  the  fire  is  not  hot,  most  of  the  juices  will  be 
lost.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  when  the  meat  is  done; 
do  not  season  before  cooking,  as  salt  draws  out  the  juices. 

Pan-broiling  is  less  desirable  than  broiling  over  hot  coals, 
though  when  properly  done  the  meat  has  much  the  same  flavor 
and  appearance.  Have  the  pan  red  hot  and  if  the  meat  is  very 
lean,  rub  the  pan  with  fat;  but  do  not  leave  any  fat  in  the  pan. 
Sear  the  meat  quickly  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other;  then  cook, 
turning  several  times.  Season  and  serve. 

Boiling 

Boiling  is  one  of  the  easiest  methods  of  cooking  meat,  but  it  is 
not  satisfactory  unless  the  proper  method  is  followed.  In  making 
soup  the  meat  is  put  in  cold  water  to  draw  out  the  juices;  in  boiling 
it  should  be  put  in  hot  water,  so  that  the  meat  and  not  the  water 
may  retain  the  juices  and  flavoring.  Some  of  them  will  necessarily 
escape,  but  the  boiling  water  coagulates  the  albumen  on  the  sur- 
face of  the  meat,  forming  a  sort  of  coat. 

Salt  meat  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  before  boiling,  but 
fresh  meat  should  simply  be  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth.  Have  the 
kettle  scrupulously  clean;  put  in  it  enough  water  to  cover  the 
meat  and  when  boiling  drop  in  the  meat.  Boil  hard  for  five 
minutes;  then  draw  the  kettle  aside  and  let  the  meat  cook  slowly 
Cover  closely  and  remove  all  scum  that  rises. 

Frying 

Frying  is  cooking  in  very  hot  fat,  and  the  secret  of  success  is 
to  have  the  fat  hot  enough  to  harden  the  outer  surface  of  the  meat 
immediately  and  deep  enough  to  cover  the  meat.  As  the  fat  can 
be  saved  and  used  many  times,  the  use  of  a  large  quantity  is  not 
extravagant. 

Have  a  frying  pan  with  a  wire  basket  and  arrange  the  pieces 
of  meat  or  croquettes  so  that  they  will  not  touch  each  other. 
Plunge  them  in  the  fat,  testing  it  first  with  a  small  piece  of  bread, 
which  should  brown  in  thirty  seconds.  When  cooked,  drain  the 
meat  over  the  hot  fat;  shake  the  basket  and  place  the  pieces  on 
soft  paper  so  that  the  fat  may  be  absorbed. 

Olive  oil  is  best  for  frying;  but  as  it  is  expensive  for  general  use, 

GO  L-L         ' 


rianned  tor  a 
Family  of  Four 


various  compounds  such  as  cottolene,  suetine,  crisco,  etc.,  may 
be  used.  These  on  the  whole  are  better  than  lard,  which  is  easily 
absorbed  and  therefore  apt  to  make  the  food  greasy.  Suet  and 
drippings  are  cheapest;  but  suet  alone  cools  quickly  and  leaves 
a  tallowy  taste. 

Dry  the  meat;  roll  it  in  fine  bread  crumbs;  then  dip  it  in  beaten 
egg  diluted  with  water;  roll  it  in  bread  crumbs  again  and  fry. 
The  white  of  the  egg  hardens  immediately  if  the  fat  is  sufficiently 
hot  and  the  fat  cannot  penetrate  to  the  meat  Mix  a  little  salt 
and  pepper  with  the  bread  crumb? 

Sauteing 

Sauteing  is  commonly  called  frying:  it  consists  in  cooking  with 
a  little  fat  in  a  shallow  pan.  This  method  is  apt  to  make  the 
articles  greasy  and  is  therefore  to  be  used  with  caution.  Use 
butter,  olive  oil,  or  one  of  the  cheaper  fats. 

Braising 

Braising  is  a  cross  between  boiling  and  baking  and  is  one  of 
the  best  methods  of  cooking  large  pieces  of  tough,  lean  meat. 
The  meat  is  placed  in  a  closely  covered  pan  partly  filled  with  hot 
stock  or  water  and  cooked  slowly  in  the  oven.  Bay  leaf,  carrot, 
onion  and  herbs  are  added,  and  the  meat  is  usually  seared  first 
to  prevent  escape  of  the  juices  in  the  waterc 

Stewing 

Stewing  consists  in  cooking  meat  in  a  little  water  in  a  closely 
covered  vessel.  Thickening  and  vegetables  are  usually  added. 
Cut  the  meat  hi  small  pieces  and  brown  over  the  fire;  add  boiling 
water;  cook  for  a  few  minutes;  then  reduce  the  heat  and  cook  very 
slowly.  The  long-continued  action  of  the  heat  softens  the  fibers 
and  renders  the  coarsest  and  cheapest  kinds  of  meat  tender  and 
palatable 

Fricasseeing 

To  fricassee  meat  saute  it  first  to  keep  in  its  juices,  then  stew 
until  tender  and  serve  with  white  or  brown  sauce  made  from  thr 
juice  in  the  pan, 

61  L-L, 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


PURCHASING  BEEF 

Roasting  —  ribs,  loin,  ^iimp  and  pin-bone.  Second  cut  from 
thinnest  side  of  ribs  and  sirloin  are  best  pieces. 

Broiling  —  loin,  rump,  skirt.     Tenderloin  and  sirloin  the  best. 

Boiling  —  round  . 

Stewing  —  round,  brisket,  etc* 

Soup  —  shin,  leg,  neck,  etc 

Broth  —  neck,  round,  etc 

POT  ROAST 

Pot  roast  calls  for  brisket  or  round  and  is  one  of  the  cheaper 
dishes  of  meat.  Wipe  the  beef  with  a  clean,  wet  cloth;  sear  by 
placing  in  a  hot  frying  pan  and  turning  until  the  entire  surface  is 
browned,  then  put  in  a  kettle  with  not  more  than  a  cup  of  hot 
water;  cover  tightly  and  keep  just  below  the  boiling  point.  Do 
not  let  the  meat  boil  dry,  but  add  only  enough  water  to  keep  it 
from  burning.  Cook  until  tender  and  add  pared  potatoes  one  half 
hour  before  it  is  done.  Serve  with  brown  sauce  made  from  the 
fat  in  the  pot. 

ROAST  BEEF  WITH  YORKSHIRE  PUDDING 

2  cups  flour  3  eggs 

%  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  milk 

Roast  the  beef  as  usual.  Mix  the  flour  with  the  salt;  add  the 
beaten  eggs  and  the  milk  and  stir  until  the  batter  is  smooth. 
Pour  into  a  shallow  baking  pan  containing  a  little  of  the  drippings 
from  the  roast  beef.  Let  the  batter  be  only  one  inch  thick  and 
bake  from  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes,  basting,  after  it  is  risen, 
with  some  of  the  fat  from  the  pan  in  which  the  beef  is  roasting. 
Cut  into  squares  and  place  it  around  the  roast  beef 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

5  pounds  beef  from  the  round  i/fc  cup  carrot 

Lardoons  of  pork  l/2  Cl*p  onion 

Salt  and  pepper  l/2  cup  turnio 

Flour  Bay  leaf 

Water  Sprig  of  parsley 

Make  eight  or  ten  deep  incisions  in  the  meat  and  press  into 
them  lardoons  of  salt  pork.  Brown  the  meat  in  pork  fat  or  drip- 


CARVING 

Loin  of  Beef  (upper  cut)  Loin  of  Beef  Rolled  Ribs  of  Beef 


Planned  lor  a  TV/TT?  ATC 

Family  of  Four  1V1.C, A 1  O 

pings;  season,  dredge  with  flour  and  brown  again.  Raise  the 
beef  on  a  trivet,  put  in  water  to  half  cover  it,  and  the  vegetables 
sliced  or  cut  into  cubes,  bay  leaf  and  parsley.  Cover  closely  and 
cook  below  the  boiling  point  for  about  four  hours.  Remove  meat 
to  platter;  surround  with  vegetables  and  make  a  brown  sauce  of 
the  strained  liquor. 

BEEF  TERRAPIN 

Shin  of  beef  \/4  pound  butter 

Salt  and  red  pepper  1  cup  cream 

3  blades  mace  1  heaping  teaspoon  flour 

2  tablespoons  currant  jelly 

Have  the  shin  of  beef  sawed  through  the  bone  in  three  places; 
put  it  in  a  vessel  over  the  fire;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  throw 
in  a  tablespoon  of  salt.  Boil  slowly  until  tender  (three  or  four 
hours^,  adding  more  water  if  necessary.  When  the  meat  is  done, 
remove  and  cool  it,  saving  the  broth  for  soup.  Cut  the  cold  meat 
into  half-inch  dice;  add  seasoning  and  butter  and  the  flour  well 
mixed  with  the  cream.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  jelly  and  serve. 


PLANKED   STEAK 

Nearly  all  planking  boards  are  now  fitted  out  with  steel  rods 
or  bars  to  hold  the  steak  in  place  and  grooves  for  the  conservation 
of  the  gravy.  Before  using,  heat  the  board  very  hot  before  the 
fire  or  in  the  oven,  lay  the  steak  on  and  fasten  into  place.  Brush 
over  with  olive  oil  or  melted  butter;  dust  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  lay  the  plank  in  the  broiler  chamber  of  a  gas  range  for  at  least 
fifteen  minutes.  Baste  frequently  and  reverse  the  plank  from  time 
to  time. 

While  the  steak  is  cooking  press  fresh-boiled  potatoes  through  a 
ricer;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  a  little  butter  and  cream; 
and  beat  with  a  fork  until  very  light.  When  the  steak  is  nearly 
done  take  the  board  from  the  oven;  put  the  beaten  potato  into  a 
pastry  bag  and  force  through  the  tube,  rose  fashion,  at  regular 
intervals  along  the  edge  of  the  steak  on  the  board. 

Between  the  potato  roses  make  little  mounds  of  cauliflower, 
mushrooms,  spinach  or  onions.  Return  to  the  oven  and  allow 
them  to  brown  delicately.  Garnish  with  cress  and  send  the  steak 
to  the  table  on  the  plank,  setting  it  on  a  large  platter  or  tray 

63  I.-T. 


IVTP  A  T  ^  Planned  for  a 

IV1J1A  1  D  _  Family  of  Four 

PLANKED   STEAK  WITH  OYSTERS 
Have  an  extra  sirloin  neatly  trimmed;    put  it  on  the  broiler; 


five  minutes  on  one  side;  turn  and  broil  five  minutes  on  the 
3ther  side.  Make  the  planking  board  very  hot  while  the  steak  is 
Broiling.  Put  the  steak  on  ;  garnish  the  board  quickly  with  mashed 
potatoes  and  put  it  under  the  broiler.  Turn  the  steak  once.  Dust 
vvith  salt  and  pepper  and  rub  with  butter.  Cover  the  top  with 
Broiled  oysters,  then  run  it  again  under  the  broiler  for  a  few 
minutes.  Serve  very  hot. 

PLANKED   SALISBURY  STEAK 

1  pound  lean  beef  Mashed  potatoes 

Salt  and  pepper  3  baked  bananas 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice  1  cup  cream  sauce 

l/2  cup  grated  horseradish 


Chop  the  meat  very  fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion 
juice;  make  it  into  three  cakes.  Put  the  cakes  on  a  hot  plank  and 
then  under  the  broiler.  It  is  wise  to  turn  a  Salisbury  steak  once 
during  the  cooking.  When  done  garnish  the  plank  with  mashed 
potatoes;  put  it  back  until  brown.  Have  ready  a  baked  banana 
for  each  cake.  Make  a  cream  sauce;  add  to  it  half  a  cup  of  grated 
horseradish;  fill  this  around  the  board;  put  the  baked  bananas 
on  top  and  serve. 

CORNED  BEEF 

All  corned  beef  requires  to  be  boiled  slowly.  Put  it  on  in  cold 
^ater;  allow  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes  for  every  pound  of  beef. 
Let  it  come  slowly  to  a  boil,  then  allow  it  to  simmer. 

Cabbage  is  usually  served  with  corned  beef  but  should  not  be 
boiled  with  it.  Parsnips  or  turnips  may  be  served  if  preferred. 

PICKLE  FOR  CORNING  BEEF 

3  gallons  water  1  ounce  pearlash 

63/4  pounds  salt  2\2  pounds  sugar 

1  pint  molasses 

This  pickle  is  sufficient  for  fifty  pounds  of  beef.  When  salt  and 
sugar  are  thoroughly  dissolved  lay  in  the  beef.  It  will  be  ready 
for  use  in  twelve  or  fourteen  days,  but  can  remain  in  the  pickle 
ave  or  six  weeks  without  injury. 

64  i,-r, 


Planned  for  a  -.  — __  . 

Family  of  Four MEATS 

ROLLED   STEAK 

1  small  skirt  steak  1  cup  stock 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  1  slice  carrot 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  1  bay  leaf 
Salt  and  pepper 

Trim  the  steak;  sprinkle  it  with  parsley  and  onion;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt;  roll  and  tie  it.  Place  it  in  a  small  roasting  pan 
with  the  stock  (or  water  if  you  have  no  stock),  carrot  and  bay  leaf 
and  roast  for  one  hour,  basting  constantly.  Serve  with  tomato  or 
brown  sauce. 

MOCK  DUCK 

1  pound  round  steak  i/2  saltspoon  pepper 

4  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  i/2  teaspoon  powdered  sage 

72  teaspoon  salt  2  teaspoons  chopped  onion 

Milk  to  moisten  the  bread 

Purchase  a  steak  of  uniform  thickness  and  remove  all  the  fat. 
Prepare  a  filling  as  follows:  Mix  together  the  crumbs,  salt,  pepper 
and  sage;  scald  the  onions  to  soften  them  and  to  remove  the  strong 
flavor,  and  add  them  to  the  crumbs,  moistening  all  with  milk. 
Wipe  the  steak  with  a  damp  cloth;  spread  the  filling  evenly  over 
tke  meat;  roll  ard  tie  it  sewing  the  ends  to  keep  it  together. 
Place  it  in  a  roasting  pan  with  a  little  water  and  bake  for  about 
three  quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  frequently.  Serve  with  currant 
jelly. 

MOCK  RABBIT 

1  pound  round  steak  1  egg 

l/2  pound  sausage  meat  1  onion 

3   slices  moistened  bread  y4  pound  salt  pork 

Salt  and  pepper 

Chop  or  grind  the  meat.  Chop  the  onion  and  cook  it  in  the  fat 
tried  out  of  a  small  portion  of  the  pork;  add  the  bread  and  cook 
a  few  minutes.  ^  When  cool,  mix  with  the  other  ingredients  except 
the  pork;  form  into  a  long,  round  roll,  smoothing  it  by  moistening 
the  hands  with  cold  water.  Cut  the  pork  in  thin  slices;  lay  them 
over  the  loaf  and  bake  for  forty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

The  sausage  may  be  omitted  if  desired  and  more  seasoning  used 
in  its  place. 

65 


MF  ATS  Ftanned  tor  a 

1V1.C/AJ.E) Family  of  Four 

BEEF  CHOP   SUEY 

2  sweet  peppers  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

1  pint  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  chopped  celery  ll/2  pounds  beefsteak 

Choose  tender  steak  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Saute  the 
vegetables  in  hot  fat  or  butter  and  season  well;  cook  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes;  then  pour  over  the  beef  which  has  been  cooked  in 
similar  fashion  in  another  pan. 

SPANISH  BEEFSTEAK 

2  pounds  steak  Salt  and  red  pepper 

Bacon  or  salt  pork  */2  cup  milk 

1/2  cup  water 

Have  the  steak  about  one  inch  thick;  pound  until  thin;  season 
and  cover  with  a  layer  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  cut  into  thin  slices, 
Iloll  the  steak  ;  tie  it  with  a  cord  and  place  it  in  a  covered  baking 
dish  with  the  milk  and  water.  Cook  two  hours,  basting  oc- 
casionally. 

MEXICAN  BEEF 

2  chile  peppers  Butter  or  drippings 

1  pint  warm  water  Clove  of  garlic 

2  pounds  beef  Boiled  Mexican  beans 

Remove  the  seeds  from  the  chile  peppers;  soak  the  pods  in  the 
warm  water  until  soft;  then  scrape  the  pulp  from  the  pods  and 
add  it  to  the  water.  Cut  the  beef  into  small  pieces  and  brown  in 
butter  or  savory  drippings.  Add  the  garlic  and  chile  water  and 
cook  until  the  meat  is  tender,  adding  more  water  if  necessary. 
Thicken  with  a  few  crushed  beans  and  serve  with  Mexican  beans, 
either  mixed  with  the  meat  or  used  as  a  border. 

If  chile  peppers  cannot  be  obtained,  water  and  cayenne  may  be 
substituted,  and  if  Mexican  beans  cannot  be  obtained,  other  dried 
beans  may  be  used. 

GUISO 

1  small  round  steak  1  onion 

1  tablespoon  drippings  4  Mexican  peppers 
4  tablespoons  boiled  rice  Salt 

2  cups  boiling  water  Flour  to  thicken 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth;  cut  it  into  small  pieces  and 
put  it  in  a  frying  pan  with  the  drippings,  rice,  half  the  boiling 

66  i,-L 


Plannea  lor  *  TVTT?  A  TS 

Family  of  Four 1Y1J2/AJ.O 

water  and  the  onion,  sliced.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  until  tender. 
Remove  the  seeds  from  the  peppers;  cover  them  with  another  cup 
of  boiling  water  and  let  them  stand  until  cool;  then  squeeze  them 
from  the  water  with  the  hand,  getting  out  all  the  pulp.  To  the 
water  and  pulp  add  salt  and  a  little  flour  to  thicken;  pour  over  the 
cooked  meat;  boil  for  a  minute  and  serve.  This  is  one  of  the  most 
palatable  of  Mexican  dishes. 


FILIPINO  BEEF 

1  pound  round  beef  1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

1/2  pound  lean  fresh  pork  1  egg 

1  small  onion  2  cups  stewed  tomatoes 

1  green  pepper  2  slices  bacon 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  butter 

11/2  tablespoons  flour 

Remove  the  seeds  from  the  pepper  and  run  it  through  the  meat 
grinder  with  the  meat  and  onion.  Add  crumbs,  beaten  egg  and 
seasoning;  make  into  a  roll;  place  hi  a  shallow  baking  dish;  pour 
the  strained  tomatoes  around  it;  put  the  bacon  on  top  and  bake 
forty  minutes,  basting  with  the  tomatoes.  Thicken  the  gravy 
with  the  flour  cooked  in  the  butter,  and  serve. 


HUNGARIAN   GOULASH 

1  pound  top  round  of  beef  1  small  onion 

1  ounce  salt  pork/  1  bay  leaf 

1  cup  tomatoes  3  whole  cloves 

l/2  stalk  celery  3  whole  peppercorns 

1  blade  mace  Flour 
Salt  and  paprika 

Fry  the  salt  pork  until  a  light  brown ;  add  the  beef,  cut  into  two- 
inch  pieces  and  sprinkled  with  flour;  cover  with  water;  let  simmer 
for  two  hours  and  season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Then  cook  the 
vegetables  and  spices  for  twenty  minutes  in  water  sufficient  to  cover 
them;  rub  them  through  a  sieve  and  add  to  some  of  the  stock  in 
which  the  meat  was  cooked.  Thicken  with  flour,  using  a  table- 
spoonful  moistened  in  cold  water  to  each  cup  of  liquid,  and  season. 
Serve  the  meat  on  the  platter  with  the  sauce  poured  over  it. 
Potatoes,  carrots  and  green  peppers,  cooked  until  tender  and 
cut  into  small  pieces  or  long  narrow  strips,  are  usually  put  over  the 
top. 

67  L-L 


TV/FT?  A  'PC?  Planned  for  a 

1Y1H/A 1  O  Family  of  Four 

SOUR  BEEF 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  from  the  rump  or  the  lower  round;  cover 
with  vinegar;  add  sliced  onion,  bay  leaves,  a  few  whole  spices  and 
salt.  Let  it  stand  a  week  in  winter  or  three  days  in  summer, 
turning  it  every  day  and  keeping  it  covered.  When  ready  to  cook 
put  a  piece  of  fat  in  an  iron  pan;  brown  the  meat;  then  strain  the 
liquid  over  it  and  cook  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Remove  the 
meat;  thicken  the  gravy  with  broken  gin gersnaps ;  strain  and  pour 
over  the  meat,  adding  a  few  seeded  raisins  if  desired, 

BEEF    BIRDS 

Cut  slices  half  an  inch  thick  from  the  rump  ot*  round  of  beef; 
divide  them  into  pieces  about  four  inches  square;  spread  with 
sausage  meat  or  forcemeat;  roll  up  tightly  and  fasten  with  cord 
or  wooden  tooth-picks.  Brown  in  butter;  cover  with  broth; 
stew  until  tender  and  nearly  dry;  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour; 
add  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  tomato  or  mushroom  catsup;  bring  to 
a  boil  and  serve. 

BEEF  LOAF 

l*/2  pounds  round  steak  Salt  and  pepper 

Small  piece  of  suet  1  small  onion 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Butter 

Have  a  small  piece  of  suet  ground  with  the  beef;  mix  thoroughly 
with  the  crumbs,  the  seasoning  and  the  onion  finely  chopped. 
Moisten  the  crumbs  slightly  with  milk  or  water.  Mold  into  a 
loaf;  put  into  a  roasting  pan  with  a  little  water;  make  indenta- 
tions in  the  top  of  the  loaf  with  the  finger  and  fill  with  small 
pieces  of  butter.  Serve  hot  with  brown  sauce,  or  cold,  sliced 
thin. 

HAMBURG  STEAK 

Have  lean  raw  beef  finely  chopped;  season  well  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  a  little  chopped  onion  or  onion  juice.  Mold  into 
cakes  and  broil  in  a  greased  broiler  or  hot  frying  pan.  When 
done  spread  with  butter  or  pour  over  them  a  brown  sauce  made 
in  the  pan. 

CREAMED  BEEF 

Take  freshly  ground  meat  from  the  rump  or  round  and  cook  it 
in  a  frying  pan  with  a  very  little  butter,  stirring  constantly  and 

08  ,.  t 


icu  * 
Family  of  Four 


sprinkling  at  every  turn  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  The  meat 
should  lose  its  red  color  but  not  brown.  When  done,  thin  with 
cream  or  milk;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  in  patty  cups  or  on  toast. 


MINCED   BEEF 

Chop  beef  from  the  rump  or  round  into  small  pieces  and  stew 
in  a  little  water  or  milk,  seasoning  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
when  the  meat  is  first  put  in  the  pan.  Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

The  remains  of  roast  beef  may  also  be  prepared  in  this  way. 


CREAMED   FRIZZLED  BEEF 

y2  pound  sliced  dried  beef  l/2  cup  cold  water 

1     tablespoon  butter  ll/2  cup  milk 

3     tablespoons  flour  1  egg 

Buttered  toast 

Pick  the  meat  over  carefully,  removing  all  gristle  and  breaking 
it  into  small  bits.  If  very  salty  bring  to  a  boil-  in  a  little  water 
and  drain.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan;  throw  in  the  beef 
and  stir  it  with  a  fork  until  it  is  cooked,  but  not  browned.  Re- 
move the  pan  from  the  hottest  part  of  the  stove;  sift  the  flour 
over  the  meat,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  the  cold  water  and  con- 
tinue stirring  until  all  the  water  has  been  absorbed.  Then  draw 
the  pan  to  the  hot  part  of  the  stove  and  add  the  milk.  Bring  all 
to  a  boil;  add  the  beaten  egg  and  serve  at  once  on  small  slices  of 
buttered  toast.  The  egg  may  be  omitted  if  preferred. 


BOILED  BEEF'S  TONGUE 

1  fresh  tongue  12  whole  cloves 

1  chopped  carrot  2  bay  leaves 

1  chopped  onion  1  cup  raisins 
Salt 

Wash  the  tongue;  throw  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  bring 
to  a  boil;  then  simmer  gently  for  two  hours.  Remove  the  tongue; 
skin  it  and  put  it  into  a  kettle  with  the  vegetables,cloves,bay  leaves, 
raisins  and  enough  of  the  water  in  which  the  tongue  was  boiled 
to  coyer  them.  Cover  the  saucepan;  stew  gently  for  two  hours, 
adding  the  salt  at  the  end  of  one  hour;  remove  the  tongue  and 
serve  in  a  border  of  the  carrots  and  raisins. 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


SMOKED  TONGUE  BOILED 

Soak  the  tongue  in  cold  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  cover 
with  fresh  water;  bring  to  the  boiling  point;  then  simmer  gently 
for  four  hours  or  until  tender.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  re- 
move the  tongue;  skin  it,  trim  off  the  smoked  parts  and  serve 
surrounded  with  masked  potatoes  and  garnished  with  parsley. 


VEAL  LOAF 

3  pounds  veal  3  eggs 

1  pound  salt  pork  l/±  teaspoon  pepper 

<5  soda  crackers  */2  teaspoon  salt 


Roll  the  crackers  fine;  mix  them  with  the  chopped  meat  and  the 
other  ingredients;  shape  into  a  loaf  and  bake  three  hours,  basting 
occasionally  in  the  fat  rendered  from  a  small  portion  of  the  pork 
and  pricking  the  loaf  so  that  the  fat  may  penetrate.  Serve  coH 
diced  very  thin. 

INDIA  CURRY 

\\/2  pounds  veal  2  onions  or  less 

y2  cup  butter  or  drippings  l/2  tablespoon  curry  or  less 

Brown  the  meat  without  fat  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Fry 
the  onions  in  the  butter;  remove  them;  add  the  meat  and  curry 
powder;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Serve 
in  a  wide  border  of  rice. 

CURRY  OF  VEAL 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  drippings  1  pint  milk 

ll/2  pounds  veal  1  tablespoon  flour 

1/2  onion  1  teaspoon  curry  powder 
Salt  and  pepper 

Chop  the  onion;  fry  it  in  the  butter;  remove  and  fry  the  veal 
until  it  is  brown.  Transfer  the  meat  to  the  double  boiler;  cover 
with  milk  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  the  curry  powder  shortly 
before  the  meat  is  done  and  thicken  the  milk  with  flour.  Serve 
in  a  border  of  rice. 

BAKED  CALF'S  HEAD 

Have  the  butcher  split  open  the  head,  remove  the  eyes  and  chop 
off  the  nose.  Lay  the  head  in  salted  water  for  half  an  hour;  change 


Planned  for  *. 
Family  of  Four 


MEATS 


the  water;  wash  and  cleanse  the  head  thoroughly.  Take  out  the 
brains;  remove  all  the  skin  and  blood;  tie  them  in  a  piece  of  cheese- 
cloth and  put  them  with  the  head  into  a  large  kettle  of  boiling 
water.  Add  salt  and  boil  the  head  for  about  two  hours,  or  until 
the  jaw  bone  can  be  twisted  out  of  the  meat,  The  brains  will  be 


1.  Neck 

2  Chuck 

3.  Shoulder 

4.  Fore  shank 

5.  Breast 


e.  Ribs 

7.  Loin 

8.  Flank 

9.  Leg 

10.  Hind  shank 


DIAGRAM  OF  CUTS  OF  VEAL 

cooked  in  half  an  hour  and  should  be  removed,  but  kept  hot. 
Take  out  all  the  bones  from  the  head,  but  keep  it  as  nearly  whole 
as  possible.  Butter  a  baking  dish;  lay  the  brains  in  it,  then  the 
head  on  them;  season  plentifully  with  powdered  cloves,  salt  and 
pepper;  stick  small  pieces  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  wherever  there 
is  a  crack  or  opening,  and  dust  with  flour.  Mix  a  little  currant 
jelly  with  two  cups  of  the  broth  the  head  was  boiled  in,  and  pour 
over  the  head;  set  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  very  brown, 
basting  several  times. 

CALF'S  LIVER  WITH   CREAM   SAUCE 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  slices  of  liver  and  let  stand  five 
minutes  to  draw  out  the  blood.     Drain,  wipe,  remove  all  skin, 

71  ^ 


TV/TT?  A  TQ  Planned  for  a 

1Y1I3//1 1  O  Family  of  Four 

white  veins  and  membranes,  and  dust  with  flour.  Fry  several 
slices  of  breakfast  bacon  until  crisp;  remove  them  and  pour  off 
the  fat  into  a  clean  frying  pan,  leaving  the  salt  and  sediment. 
Reheat  the  fat;  put  in  enough  liver  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan; 
cook  until  done,  testing  one  piece  by  cutting  it  with  a  knife  to 
see  whether  all  pink  color  is  gone  from  the  inside.  Arrange  the 
pieces  on  a  hot  platter,  surround  them  with  the  bacon  and  cover 
with  a  cream  sauce  made  in  the  pan.  Pour  off  all  the  fat  but  one 
tablespoon;  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  cook  thoroughly  and  add 
the  cream  or  milk. 

BROILED  LIVER 

Cut  the  liver  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick  and  let  stand  in  boiling 
water  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  wipe  and  remove  all  skin,  veins 
and  membranes.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  place  in  a 
greased  wire  broiler  and  broil  from  five  to  eight  minutes.  Remove 
to  a  hot  platter;  spread  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt. 

LIVER  AND  BACON 

Prepare  as  for  broiled  liver;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
dredge  with  flour.  Cook  the  bacon  until  crisp  and  brown;  re- 
move it  and  fry  the  liver  slowly  in  the  fat.  Cook  until  thoroughly 
done  but  not  dried,  and  make  a  brown  sauce,  using  the  fat  in  the 
pan.  Serve  with  the  bacon. 


BRAISED  LIVER 

Calf's  or  lamb's  liver  3  peppercorns 

1  carrot  2  whole  cloves 

1  onion  1  bay  leaf 

1  stalk  celery  2  cups  stock  or  water 
Salt  pork 

Skewer,  tie  in  shape  and  lard  the  liver.  Cut  the  vegetables 
into  small  cubes;  put  them  in  a  baking  pan  with  the  seasonings 
and  bits  left  from  the  lardoons  of  salt  pork;  lay  the  liver  on  top; 
pour  over  all  two  cups  of  stock  or  water;  cover  closely  and  bake 
slowly  for  two  hours,  basting  occasionally  and  uncovering  the  last 
fifteen  minutes.  Remove  the  liver  to  a  platter;  surround  it  with 
the  vegetables;  then  make  a  brown  sauce,  using  the  strained  liquor, 
and  pour  over  all. 

72  t-t- 


Planned  for  a  TWn?  A  HTQ 

Family  of  Four IViH/A  1  O 

STEWED  LIVER 

Prepare  liver  as  for  broiling;  cut  in  small  pieces  and  saute 
about  two  minutes  in  hot  fat.  Put  the  pieces  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  little  water,  half  a  lemon  sliced,  a  pinch  each  of  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  cloves,  and  stew  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  Thicken  the 
juice  a  little  and  serve. 

STUFFED   CALF'S  LIVER 

1  calf's  liver  l/z  cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

2  cups  thin  brown  sauce  */2  small  onion  chopped 

l/2  pound  chopped  cold  ham  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper 

Make  a  dressing  of  the  ham,  bread  crumbs,  onion  and  parsley, 
seasoning  well  and  moistening  with  a  little  brown  sauce.  Pour 
boiling  water  on  the  liver;  let  stand  five  minutes;  then  make  a 
deep  cut  the  entire  length  of  the  liver,  beginning  at  the  thick  end. 
Fill  the  pouch;  skewer  the  liver;  lard  it  and  put  it  in  a  baking  pan 
with  the  brown  sauce.  Bake  one  hour  and  a  quarter,  basting  fre- 
quently. 

PURCHASING  MUTTON   OR  LAMB 

Roasting — hind-quarter,  leg,  loin,  breast. 

Broiling — chops  from  loin,  or  breast,  steaks  from  leg. 

Boiling — leg. 

Stewing — chops  from  fore-quarter,  the  neck  or  leg. 

Soup — shoulder,  neck,  leg.  / 

Broth — neck. 

SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON  STUFFED 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Juice  of  one  lemon 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  1  saltspoon  pepper 

1  egg  Shoulder  of  mutton 

Have  the  blade  removed  from  the  shoulder  and  fill  the  space 
with  a  stuffing  made  in  the  usual  way.  Sew  up  the  opening  and 
roast  the  shoulder,  putting  a  little  water  in  the  pan  and  basting 
frequently.  Allow  from  fifteen  to  eighteen  minutes  to  the  pound, 
and  when  done  make  a  brown  sauce  in  the  pan. 

The  stuffing  may  be  varied  by  the  addition  of  chopped  meat, 
celery,  onion,  oysters,  mushrooms,  etc. 

73  L-I, 


MEATS 


Planned  for  ft 
Family  of  Four 


HARICOT  OF  MUTTON 


2  tablespoons  chopped  onion 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  drippings 
Salt  and  pepper 


2  cups  water 

ll/2  pounds  mutton  or  lamb 

Cooked  lima  beans 


Select  lean  meat  and  cut  it  into  two-inch  pieces.    Fry  the  onions 
in  the  butter;  add  the  meat;  season  and  brown;  cover  with  water; 


1     Neck 

2.  Chuck 

3.  Shoulder 

4.  Flank 
6.   Loin 
6,   Leg 


DIAGRAM  OF  Curs  OF  LAMB  AND  MUTTON 

cook  until  tender  and  serve  in  a  border  of  lima  beans,  well  cooked 
and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  chopped  parsley  o 


BOILED  SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON 

Bone  the  shoulder;  fill  the  space  with  pine  nuts;  dust  all  with 
flour;  wrap  in  cheesecloth  and  plunge  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
Boil  rapidly  for  five  minutes;  then  simmer  for  two  hours.  Serve 
with  caper  cauce* 


74 


CARVING 

Leg  of  Mutton  Shoulder  of  Mutton  Shoulder  of  Mutton 


Planned  foi  a  TV/I"I?  A  T^O 

Family  of  Four  JiVl  JL  A 1 0 

RAGOUT  OF  MUTTON 

V/2  pounds  neck  of  mutton  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  V*  teaspoon  pepper 

iy2  tablespoons  flour  Sprig  of  parsley 

1  chopped  onion  1  bay  leaf 

1  carrot  cut  in  dice  1  whole  clove 

2  cups  hot  water  l/2  can  peas 

Put  butter  in  the  frying  pan;  when  melted,  add  flour  and  brown. 
Add  carrot,  onion  and  meat  and  cook  until  all  are  browned.  Put 
in  a  kettle;  add  water,  salt  and  pepper  and  the  herbs,  tied  in  a 
bouquet  so  that  they  can  be  removed.  Cover  and  simmer  for  two 
hours,  adding  the  peas  ten  minutes  before  serving  and  removing  the 
herbs, 

IRISH  STEW 

Neck  of  mutton  6  parboiled  potatoes 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  drippings  1  carrot 

2  onions  Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  the  meat  into  pieces  two  inches  square,  brown  in  the  butter; 
add  water  to  cover  the  meat  and  the  onions  sliced.  Cover  closely 
and  simmer  two  hours.  Add  more  water  if  necessary,  parboiled 
potatoes  cut  in  half,  a  sliced  carrot  and  seasoning.  Cover  and 
cook  one  hour  longer;  let  the  potatoes  be  soft  but  not  broken. 
Thicken  as  desired. 

A  bay  leaf  cooked  with  the  meat  or  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce 
added  to  the  gravy  when  finished  improves  the  flavor. 

PLANKED  CHOPS 

Broil  some  thick  chops  on  one  side  and  arrange  them  cooked 
side  down,  overlapping  each  other  on  the  hot  plank.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes,  basting  fre- 
quently. Decorate  with  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes  pressed 
through  ajbag  and  a  star  tube.  Fill  in  with  hot  vegetables.  Serve 
at  once  with  brown  sauce, 


MUTTON  CHOPS  WITH  PEAS 

Broil  the  chops  as  usual  and  have  green  peas  boiled.  Heap  the 
peas  in  the  center  of  a  round  chop  plate;  decorate  the  chops  with 
paper  ruffles  and  arrange  them  symmetrically  around  the  peas 

75  fc-L 


MEATS 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


ROAST  PORK 

Select  leg,  loin,  spare-rib  or  shoulder.  If  the  skin  is  left  on,  cut 
it  with  a  sharp  knife  in  lines  running  both  ways.  Add  water  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  allowing  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes 
to  the  pound.  Serve  with  apple  sauce. 


1.  Head 

2.  Shoulder 

3.  Back 

4.  Middle  cut 

5.  Belly 

6.  Ham 

7.  Ribs 

8.  Loin 


V 


DIAGRAM  OF  CUTS  or  PORK 


PORK   CHOPS 

Have  chops  cut  not  more  than  a  half  inch  thick.  Place  them  in 
a  hot  pan  and  cook  slowly  until  tender  and  brown.  Serve  with 
fried  apples. 

BOILED  HAM 

Let  the  ham  soak  in  cold  water  over  night;  wash  thoroughly 
trim  off  the  hard  skin  near  the  end  of  the  bone;  put  in  a  kettle  oi 
cold  water;  heat  to  boiling  point  and  cook  slowly  until  tender 

76  L-I< 


Planned  for  a  Tl/rC1  A  TC 

Family  of  Four  ML&A  1 0 

allowing  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound.     Let    it 
remain  in  the  water  until  cold;  then  skin  it  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 

BAKED  HAM 

Soak  and  prepare  the  ham  as  for  boiling.  Boil  slowly  for  several 
hours;  take  out  the  ham;  remove  the  skin;  trim  off  the  black  and 
smoked  parts;  paint  all  over  with  yolk  of  egg;  sprinkle  thickly 
with  fine  bread  crumbs;  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  about  an 
hour,  basting  frequently  with  a  mixture  of  water  and  currant 
jelly.  Trim  the  knuckle  with  paper  ruffles  and  serve  hot. 


FRIZZLED  HAM 

Shave  uncooked  ham  as  thin  as  paper,  fat  and  lean  together; 
put  in  a  frying  pan  over  a  quick  fire;  stir  constantly  until  it  begins 
to  brown  and  curl.  Add  several  tablespoons  of  boiling  water; 
bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

STEWED  HAM 

Cut  a  thin  slice  of  ham;  divide  into  narrow  strips  two  inches 
long;  pour  boiling  water  on  it;  let  stand  until  cold;  drain  off  the 
water  and  put  the  ham  in  a  frying  pan.  Add  a  bunch  of  chopped 
parsley  and  about  a  cup  of  cream;  stew  for  five  minutes  and  serve. 

BROILED  HAM 

Take  a  thin  slice  of  ham;  pare  off  the  skin;  remove  the  brown 
fat  from  the  under  side  of  the  slices  and  lay  them  on  a  gridiron 
over  a  hot  fire.  When  the  fat  is  slightly  browned  turn  over  and 
cook  the  other  side  in  the  same  way.  If  the  ham  is  very  old  and 
salty  it  should  be  stewed  a  few  minutes  before  either  broiling  or 
frying.  Let  it  simmer  in  a  frying  pan;  pour  off  the  water  and  dry 
on  a  clean  towel, 

HAM  AND  EGGS 

Have  the  slice  of  ham  cut  as  thin  as  possible;  place  it  in  a 
heated  pan  and  fry  until  it  is  slightly  browned  on  both  sides. 
Lift  out  the  ham;  break  the  eggs  into  the  pan;  season  and  let 
them  fry  until  the  whites  are  set.  Remove  them  with  a  cake- 
turner;  place  over  the  ham  and  serve,  garnished  with  parsley. 

77  *-*- 


MEATS  ..Planned  for  a 


Family  of  Four 


BACON  AND  EGGS 


Have  the  bacon  cut  into  very  thin  slices;  put  them  in  a  frying 
pan  over  a  slow  fire  until  most  of  the  fat  is  extracted.  Remove 
the  bacon;  break  the  eggs  into  the  pan  carefully;  season  and  cook 
until  the  whites  are  set;  lift  out  with  a  cake-turner  and  serve 
immediately,  garnished  with  the  bacon. 

SALT  PORK  IN  MILK 

1  pound  salt  pork  4  tablespoons  fat 

2  cups  skim  milk  4  level  tablespoons  flour 

Cut  the  pork  into  thin  slices;  cover  with  hot  water;  let  stand 
for  ten  minutes  and  drain.  Score  the  rind  of  the  slices;  fry  until 
a  golden  brown  and  serve  in  a  milk  sauce.  Heat  the  flour  in  some 
of  the  fat  that  has  been  rendered  in  frying  the  pork;  add  the  milk 
gradually;  bring  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  the  slices  of  pork  or 
empty  into  a  gravy  boat. 


MEAT  POT-PIE 

Cut  beef,  chicken,  or  other  meat  into  pieces;  put  in  boiling 
water;  cover  and  cook  until  tender,  seasoning  to  taste.  When 
the  stew  is  done  add  drop  dumplings  and  serve. 

A  little  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  parsley,  bay  leaf  or  other 
herb  lends  variety  to  the  pot-pie. 


PIGS'   FEET  IN  JELLY 

2  pair  feet  1  teaspoon  powdered  allspice 

3  quarts  cold  water  V2  teaspoon  powdered  cloves 
Salt  and  pepper  Pinch  of  powdered  mace 

1  cup  vinegar 

Clean  the  feet  and  put  them  over  the  fire  in  the  water.  Boil 
slowly  until  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones ;  strain  through  a 
colander;  return  the  broth  to  the  kettle  and  boil  until  reduced  to 
one  pint.  Remove  all  the  meat  from  the  bones;  cut  it  into  small 
pieces  and  add  the  seasonings.  When  the  broth  is  reduced,  add 
the  meat  and  vinegar;  let  simmer  two  or  three  minutes;  then  pour 
into  molds.  Serve  on  the  following  day,  emptying  the  molded 
jelly  upon  a  platter  and  garnishing  with  parsley  or  other  green. 

78  L-L 


Planned  for  a                                                                                                                TWTTTATR 
Family  of  Four JVLC/A1O 

TRIPE 

Soak  the  tripe  for  several  hours;  scrape  clean;  put  in  salted 
water  and  simmer  for  three  or  four  hours.  Drain  off  the  water 
and  set  the  tripe  aside  until  ready  to  use.  To  one  cup  of  cream 
sauce  add  a  half  teaspoon  of  onion  juice  and  a  cup  of  the  boiled 
tripe.  Stir  until  the  tripe  is  heated  and  serve. 

BROILED   SWEETBREADS 

Wash  the  sweetbreads  and  blanch  them  for  five  minutes  in 
boiling  water;  lay  them  in  a  greased  oyster  broiler  over  a  bright 
fire,  turning  frequently  and  brushing  with  butter  whenever  turned. 
When  done  remove  carefully  to  a  platter;  season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  butter,  and  serve  with  peas. 

STEWED   SWEETBREADS 

1  pair  sweetbreads  1  tablespoon  flour 

14  cup  butter  1  cup  cream 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Wash  the  sweetbreads  and  blanch  them  for  a  few  minutes  in 
boiling  water;  then  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  ten  minutes.  Put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  water  to  cover;  stew  until  tender;  add 
the  quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter,  rubbed  into  the  tablespoon  of  flour, 
the  chopped  parsley  and  a  cup  of  cream.  Boil  three  minutes  and 
serve. 

STEWED   KIDNEYS 

Beef,  calf  or  lamb  kidneys  J/2  tablespoon  onion  juice 

Flour  %  cup  water 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  currant  jelly 

Salt  and  pepper 

Be  sure  that  the  kidneys  are  fresh.  Remove  all  fat  and  white 
center;  then  soak  them  for  an  hour  in  salted  water.  Cut  into 
half-inch  slices,  dust  with  flour  and  saute  in  the  butter  for  about 
five  minutes.  Add  onion  juice  and  water  and  simmer  for  about 
ten  minutes.  Add  jelly,  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 


79 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


TOMATO   SAUCE 

1  cup  cooked  tomatoes  V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  bay  leaf  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Dash  of  red  pepper  1  tablespoon  butter 

l1/^  tablespoons  flour 

Add  the  seasonings  to  the  tomatoes  and  let  them  boil  for  a  few 
minutes.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  separate  saucepan;  stir  in  the  flour; 
then  slowly  add  the  tomatoes,  strained.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

CREAM   OF  TOMATO   SAUCE 

Make  a  plain  cream  sauce  and  just  before  serving  add  a  cup  of 
hot  cooked  tomatoes,  strained.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  the  toma- 
toes before  mixing  them. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE 

3  anchovies  Vz  tablespoon  catsup 

1  tablespoon  butter  Dash  of  red  pepper 

1  tablespoon  flour  l/2  cup  boiling  water 

1  table  spoonful  lemon  juice 

Bone  the  anchovies  and  pound  them  to  a  paste.  Melt  the 
butter;  stir  in  the  flour  and  when  smooth  add  the  anchovies, 
pepper  and  catsup.  Mix  well;  pour  the  hot  water  over  all:  boil 
two  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  the  lemon  juice  and  serve 
with  boiled  or  baked  fish. 

WHITE  SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Dash  of  red  pepper 

Make  exactly  the  same  as  cream  sauce,  modifying  it  if  desired 
by  the  addition  of  other  flavorings. 

HORSERADISH   SAUCE 

V2  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  cracker  crumbs  1  tablespoon  horseradish 

Salt  to  taste 

Heat  the  milk  with  the  cracker  crumbs  in  a  double  boiler;  add 
the  other  ingredients;  boil  several  minutes  and  serve  with  boiled 
beef. 

102  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


MUSHROOM   SAUCE 

6  mushrooms  Juice  of  l/z  lemon 

l/2  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  mushroom  catsup 

Salt  and  red  pepper  t/4  cup  stock 

1  teaspoon  flour 

Clean  the  mushrooms;  cut  them  into  small  pieces;  put  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  lemon  juice  and 
catsup;  stew  until  tender;  add  the  stock  and  the  flour  mixed  with 
a  little  cold  water;  bring  all  to  a  boil  and  serve  with  beefsteak 
or  game. 

OYSTER   SAUCE 
25  oysters  1  pint  cream  sauce 

Drain  the  oysters,  saving  the  juice,  and  wash  them.  Strain 
the  juice;  bring  it  to  a  boil;  skim  and  add  the  oysters.  Cook 
until  the  edges  of  the  oysters  begin  to  curl  and  at  the  moment  of 
serving  add  to  the  cream  sauce.  Add  more  seasoning  if  desired, 
but  do  not  add  it  until  the  sauce  is  removed  from  the  fire,  as  salt 
is  apt  to  make  the  mixture  curdle. 


SAUCE   SUPREME 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  chicken  stock 

2  tablespoons  flour  l/2  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  hot  cream  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  the  butter,  but  do  not  brown  it;  add  the  flour  as  in  cream 
sauce,  then  the  cream  and  stock  gradually,  and  the  seasoning  and 
lemon  juice  after  it  is  taken  from  the  fire. 


CAPER  SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

2  tablespoons  flour  y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  meat  broth  Dash  of  pepper 
1  tablespoon  capers 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  flour,  then  the  broth  and  seasoning, 
stirring  to  prevent  lumps.  When  it  boils,  add  the  capers;  stand 
over  hot  water  for  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

103  L-L 


SAUCES  Planned  for. 


Family  of  Four 


CELERY  SAUCE 


1  stalk  celery  1  cup  salted  water 

1  cup  cream  sauce 

Wash  the  celery  and  cut  it  into  pieces  one  half  inch  long.  Let 
it  cook  in  the  salted  water  until  tender;  drain  thoroughly;  stir 
the  cream  sauce  into  it;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  with  poultry  or 
game. 

BECHAMEL   SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  butter  '/£  cup  cream 
ll/2  tablespoons  flour  *4  teaspoon  salt 
l/z  cup  white  stock                                 Dash  of  pepper 

Melt  the  butter;  cook  thoroughly  with  the  flour;  add  the  stocK 
gradually,  then  the  cream  and  seasoning. 

CRANBERRY   SAUCE 

1  pint  cranberries  1%  cups  water 

Sugar 

Put  the  cranberries  on  with  the  water  and  cook  until  soft;  strain 
through  a  cloth;  weigh  and  add  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  every  pint  of  juice.  Cook  ten  minutes;  pour  into  molds  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  Serve  with  poultry,  game  or  mutton. 

STEWED    CRANBERRIES 

3  cups  cranberries  ll/2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  water 

Boil  together  the  sugar  and  water  for  seven  minutes;  then  add 
the  cranberries,  well  washed  and  picked,  and  cook  until  the  berries 
burst.  Serve  the  same  as  cranberry  sauce. 

JELLY   SAUCE 

,  1  tumbler  currant  or  grape  jelly  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Melt  the  jelly,  adding  the  butter  slowly.  Boil  for  one  minute 
and  just  before  serving  add  the  lemon.  This  is  served  with  game, 
iamb  or  mutton. 

104  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


ORANGE   SAUCE 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  poultry  stock 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  orange 

Salt  and  pepper 

Follow  directions  for  making  brown  sauce.  Add  the  shredded 
peel  of  the  orange,  and  simmer  until  peel  is  tender.  Add  the  juice 
of  the  orange  just  before  serving.  Serve  with  goose  or  duck. 


APPLE?  SAUCE 

Pare  and  quarter  tart  apples.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
just  enough  water  to  keep  them  from  burning;  bring  to  a  boil 
quickly  and  cook  until  the  pieces  are  soft.  Then  press  through  a 
colander  and  add  four  tablespoons  of  sugar  (or  less)  to  each  pint 
of  apples, 

If  desired,  cinnamon  or  grated  nutmeg  may  be  sprinkled  over 
the  top  after  the  apple  sauce  is  in  the  serving  dish,  or  a  little  stick 
cinnamon  or  lemon  peel  may  be  cooked  with  the  apples.  Serve 
with  goose  or  pork. 

SUITABLE   SAUCES  TO   SERVE  WITH   CERTAIN   MEATS, 
FISH,  AND  VEGETABLES 

BEEF,  ROAST — Horseradish,  brown,  tomato,  or  jelly  sauce. 

VEAL,  ROAST — Brown,  tomato,  or  horseradish  sauce. 

MUTTON,  ROAST — Sauce  piquante,  jelly,  curry,  or  mint. 

MUTTON,  BOILED — Sauce  piquante. 

LAMB,  ROAST — Mint,  caper,  curry,  or  jelly  sauce. 

PORK,  ROAST — Apple  sauce,  sauce  piquante,  or  brown  sauce. 

BEEFSTEAK,  BROILED — Mattre  d'hotel  butter,  or  mushroom  sauce. 

GOOSE  OR  DUCK — Apple  sauce,  jelly  sauce,  orange  sauce. 

CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY,  ROAST — Cranberry  sauce;  giblet,  celery,  or  oyster  sauce. 

CHICKEN,  BOILED — Sauce  supreme,  white  sauce,  oyster  sauce. 

CHICKEN,  FRIED — Brown,  celery,  or  egg  sauce;   sauce  supreme. 

WARMED-OVER  POULTRY — Bechamel,  white,  or  egg  sauce. 

FISH,  BOILED  OR  BAKED — White,  egg,  or  caper  sauce. 

FISH,  FRIED — Tartare  sauce. 

VEGETABLES,  BOILED — Cream  sauce,  drawn  butter. 

For  coloring  and  flavoring  brown  sauces  and  soups  a  table- 
spoon of  "  Browning  for  Sauces  "  may  be  used.  See  next  page. 

105  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


BROWNING  FOR   SAUCES 

1  cup  sugar  l!/2  cups  boiling  water 

1  small  onion  Vfc  teaspoon  pepper 

1  small  carrot  1  teaspoon  salt 

Chop  the  onion  fine,  and  cut  the  carrot  into  dice.  Cook  the 
carrot  and  one-half  the  onion  in  the  boiling  water.  Melt  the 
sugar  in  an  aluminum  or  iron  pan,  letting  it  cook  until  it  smokes 
and  turns  deep  brown  in  color.  Add  the  uncooked  onion.  Take 
from  the  fire.  Add  the  boiling  water,  vegetables,  pepper  and  salt. 
Cook  slowly  five  minutes.  Strain,  cool,  and  bottle  for  use.  By 
many  people  a  little  parsley,  and  celery  seed  are  liked  for  addi- 
tional flavor.  If  used,  they  are  cooked  in  the  boiling  water, 


JOB 


EGGS 


made  an  egg  aland  on  end, — and  then  discovered  a  new 
world! 

— Fables  of  a  Rolling  Pin. 


In  marble  loalls  as  white  as  milk, 
Lined  with  a  curtain  soft  as  silk; 
Within  a  fountain  crystal  clear, 
A  golden  apple  doth  appear. 
No  doors  there  are  to  this  stronghold- 
Yet  folk  break  in  and  steal  the  gold. 

— Mother  Goose. 


108 


EGGS 

EGGS  are  a  highly  concentrated  food,  a  pound  (about  nine)  being 
nearly  equal  in  nutritive  value  to  a  pound  of  beef.     They 
make  an  excellent  meat  substitute,  but  when  so  used  should  be 
served  with  starchy  foods,  since  they  lack  in  fuel  value. 

Eggs  should  not  be  cooked  at  a  higlTtemperature,  intense  heat 
causing  albumen  to  harden  and  become  difficult  of  digestion, 

BOILED   EGGS 

Soft-boiled  eggs  may  be  prepared  in  two  ways.  The  eggs  may 
be  dropped  carefully  into  boiling  water  and  boiled  three  minutes, 
or  they  may  be  placed  in  a  covered  vessel  of  boiling  water  and 
allowed  to  stand  in  a  warm  place  (but  not  on  the  stove)  for  ten 
minutes.  Eggs  prepared  in  this  way  are  sometimes  called  "Cod- 
dled Eggs."  They  are  much  more  delicate  and  digestible  than 
the  usual  "Boiled  Eggs." 

"Hard-boiled"  eggs  should  be  put  into  cold  water  and  brought 
to  the  boiling  point.  Let  them  cook  just  below  the  simmering 
point  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  and  then  drop  them  into  cold 
water  to  prevent  the  yolk  from  turning  dark. 

POACHED   EGGS 

Bring  salted  water  to  a  boil  in  a  shallow  vessel;  remove  from  the 
fire  and  slip  the  eggs  carefully  into  it,  breaking  each  into  a  small 
saucer  first.  Place  the  pan  over  a  moderate  fire  and  let  the  water 
come  slowly  to  a  boil.  By  this  time  the  whites  of  the  eggs  should 
be  delicately  set.  Lift  the  eggs  carefully;  trim  off  the  ragged 
edges  and  serve  on  slices  of  buttered  toast. 

FRIED   EGGS 

Melt  in  a  frying-pan  a  large  piece  of  butter;  or  use  the  fat 
of  ham  or  bacon.  When  hot,  drop  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
being  careful  not  to  break  the  yolk.  When  the  white  of  the  egg 

109  L-I> 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


is  set  they  are  done,  though  some  persons  like  them  turned  over 
and  cooked  on  the  other  side.  Remove  from  the  pan  with  a  cake- 
turner  and  serve  at  once. 

SHIRRED  EGGS 

Eggs  may  be  shirred  in  one  large  baking  dish  or  pan,  but  are 
better  and  look  more  tempting  in  individual  ramekins  or  custard 
cups.  Place  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  the  bottom  of  each;  break 
the  egg;  drop  it  in  without  breaking  the  yolk;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  put  another  small  piece  of  butter  on  the  top.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  until  the  white  is  set,  and  serve  immediately. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS 

4  eggs  1/2  tablespoon  butter 

4  tablespoons  milk  or  water  Salt  and  pepper 

Break  the  eggs  In  a  bowl  and  beat  them  thoroughly;  add  the 
milk  and  seasoning  and  beat  again.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying- 
pan  over  the  fire;  pour  in  the  eggs;  stir  occasionally  but  not  con- 
stantly until  they  thicken;  then  serve  at  once. 

GRIDDLED  EGGS 

Heat  a  griddle  as  if  for  baking  cakes;  butter  it  lightly  and  ar- 
range small  muffin  rings  on  it.  Drop  an  egg  in  each  and  turn  as 
soon  as  lightly  browned.  Griddled  eggs  resemble  fried  eggs  but 
are  far  more  delicate. 

CURRIED  EGGS 

6  hard-boiled  eggs  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  curry  sauce  %  teaspoon  pepper 

Cut  the  eggs  in  half  and  slice  enough  of  the  white  off  the  end  of 
each  to  make  them  stand  upright.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  the  sauce  poured  around  them. 

PLAIN  OMELET 

4  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

4  tablespoons  milk  or  water  %  tablespoon  butter 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  yolks  and  whites  separately  ;  then  fold 
the  whites  into  the  yolks.  Add  the  seasoning  and  milk.  Melt 

110  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


the  butter  in  a  frying-pan;  pour  in  the  omelet;  brown  carefully; 
fold  over  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter.  Garnish  with  parsley  or 
olives. 

HAM   OMELET 

Make  the  same  as  plain  omelet,  adding  one  half  cup  of  minced 
ham  after  the  omelet  is  in  the  pan.  When  folded  over  and  served 
the  ham  will  be  completely  concealed. 

SAVORY  OMELET  No.  1 

6  eggs  2  teaspoons  chopped  onion 

2  teaspoons  chopped  parsley  Salt  and  red  pepper 

2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  thoroughly  with  the  seasonings  ;  beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  fold  them  into  the  yolks.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  pudding  dish;  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese;  bake  for 
about  fifteen  minutes  and  serve  at  once. 

SAVORY  OMELET  No.  2 

6  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

y2  saltspoon  pepper  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

2  tablespoons  gravy  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl;  add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  gravy 
and  beat  well.  Put  the  butter  in  the  pan  and  when  hot  pour  in 
the  egg  mixture.  Add  the  parsley  and  onion;  cook  until  a  light 
brown;  fold  over  and  serve,  pouring  on  the  lemon  juice  after  the 
.omelet  is  on  the  platter.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  slices  of  lemon. 

RICE   OMELET 

1   CUp  tnilk  3   eggS 

1  cup  cold  boiled  rice  2  tablespoons  butter 

l/z  teaspoon  salt 

Warm  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  add  the  rice  and  one  table- 
spoon of  butter;  mix  thoroughly;  then  add  the  eggs,  well-beaten, 
and  seasoning.  Melt  the  other  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying- 
pan  and  when  hot  turn  into  it  the  rice  mixture.  Let  it  brown 
slightly;  put  in  the  oven  until  it  is  "set";  fold  over  and  serve 
garnished  with  parsley, 

111  L-L 


EGGS  Planned  for  a 

Family  of  Four 

SWEET  OMELET 

4  eggs  4  teaspoons  powdered  sugar 

4  tablespoons  milk  i/2  tablespoon  butter 

4  tablespoons  marmalade  or  jelly 

Make  the  same  as  plain  omelet,  adding  the  marmalade  or  jelly 
just  before  the  omelet  is  folded  over.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
serve  garnished  with  preserved  cherries  or  candied  fruit. 

CRUMB   OMELET 

YZ  cup  grated  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

72  cup  cream  i/2  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

3  eggs  i/2  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Beat  the  eggs  separately  and  then  together;  season  and  add 
the  parsley  and  onion.  Pour  the  cream  over  the  bread  crumbs 
and  mix  them  with  the  eggs;  empty  all  into  a  hot  pan  in  which 
the  butter  has  already  been  melted;  spread  evenly  over  the  pan; 
brown  carefully;  fold  one  half  over  the  other;  lift  to  a  hot  platter 
and  serve,  garnished  with  parsley  or  slices  of  small  white  onion. 

TOMATO   OMELET 

2  large  ripe  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  flour  3  eggs 

Peel  the  tomatoes;  chop  them  fine;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt;  dust  with  the  flour;  mix  it  in  so  that  there  are  no  lumps; 
then  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted.  Beat  the  eggs,  separately 
and  then  together;  add  them  to  the  tomatoes  and  mix  well.  Put 
a  second  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan;  pour  in  the  omelet; 
brown  slowly;  fold  over  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  garnished  with 
parsley  or  slices  of  red  tomato. 

CORN  OMELET 

4  eggs  Salt  and  red  pepper 

2  ears  corn  1  tablespoon  butter 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  separately  and  then  to- 
gether; grate  the  corn  and  add  it  to  the  eggs  with  the  seasoning. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan;  pour  in  the  omelet;  brown  care- 
fully; double  over  and  serve. 

112  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


OYSTER  OMELET 

Make  the  same  as  the  corn  omelet,  substituting  one  dozen  finely 
chopped  oysters  for  the  corn. 

CODFISH   OMELET 

1  cup  shredded  codfish  Dash  of  red  pepper 

2  eggs  l/2  tablespoon  butter 
1  cup  milk                                                V2  tablespoon  flour 

Cover  the  codfish  with  cold  water;  cook  half  an  hour  in  a  closely 
covered  pan;  strain  through  a  colander  and  return  to  the  pan. 
Beat  the  eggs,  separately  and  then  together  with  the  milk;  add 
the  red  pepper  and  pour  over  the  codfish.  Rub  the  butter  and 
flour  together;  stir  it  into  the  fish  and  egg;  cook  gently  until  it 
thickens  and  serve  at  once. 


CHEESE   OMELET 

4  eggs  y4  pound  cheese  or  less 

4  tablespoons  milk  Red  pepper  and  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately;  stir  them  to- 
gether; then  add  the  milk.  Place  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  over 
the  fire,  and  when  it  is  hot  pour  the  mixture  in,  sprinkling  it  with 
salt  and  red  pepper.  Then  add  the  cheese,  which  should  be  grated 
or  broken  into  small  pieces.  Brown  the  omelet  carefully;  fold 
over  and  serve,  garnished  with  olives  or  parsley.  It  is  better  if 
the  cheese  does  not  melt,  but  is  simply  heated  through. 


BAKED   OMELET 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour  6  eggs 

l/2  teaspoon  salt 

Put  the  butter  in  a  pan  over  the  fire;  when  melted  add  the  flour; 
mix  well;  then  add  the  milk  gradually,  stirring  until  thick  and 
smooth.  Add  the  salt  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Beat  the  eggs,  yolks 
and  whites  separately;  fold  first  yolks  and  then  whites  into  the 
cream  sauce;  pour  into  a  baking  dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  at  once. 

113  L-L 


Planned  tor  a 
Family  of  Four 


BAKED   EGGS  A  LA  MARTIN 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  6  eggs 

1  pint  milk  i/2  cup  grated  cheese 

Red  pepper 

Make  cream  sauce  as  for  baked  omelet;  pour  half  of  it  into  a 
baking  dish;  break  over  it  six  eggs,  and  cover  them  with  the  re- 
maining half  of  the  sauce.  Sprinkle  red  pepper  and  the  grated 
cheese  over  the  top  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes. 

WELSH  RAREBIT 

2  cups  grated  cheese  %  cup  milk 
Yolks  of  2  eggs                                        Salt  and  red  pepper 

4  slices  buttered  toast 

Place  the  milk  in  a  pan  over  a  moderate  fire;  when  hot,  add 
the  cheese;  stir  until  the  cheese  is  thoroughly  melted;  then  add 
the  eggs  and  seasoning  and  pour  over  the  toasted  bread. 

GOLDEN  BUCK 

1  cup  milk  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  grated  cheese  Dash  of  red  pepper 
l/4  teaspoon  mustard  6  squares  toast 

6  poached  eggs 

Let  the  milk  come  to  the  boiling  point;  add  the  cheese;  then 
the  mustard,  pepper  and  salt.  Have  the  poached  eggs  ready  on  a 
platter  and  as  soon  as  the  cheese  is  melted  pour  the  mixture  around, 
not  over  the  eggs.  Garnish  with  parsley. 

OX  EYES 

4  round  slices  bread  Pinch  of  salt 

1  beaten  egg  l/z  cup  milk 

4  eggs 

Cut  the  bread  two  inches  thick;  remove  the  crust  and  with  a 
round  biscuit-cutter  take  the  center  out  of  each  slice.  Add  the 
milk  and  salt  to  the  beaten  egg;  place  the  bread  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish  and  baste  with  the  egg  and  milk.  Break  an  egg  in 
the  center  of  each  slice;  place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  are  set. 


Family  of  Four 


for  *  EGGS 


BIRDS'  NESTS 

Have  prepared  slices  of  buttered  toast,  and  on  each  slice  put 
the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  in  the  shape  of  a  bird's  nest.  In  the 
center  place  the  yolk,  seasoning  with  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  whites  are  deli- 
cately browned. 

KEDGAREE 

J/2  cup  codfish  Dash  of  red  pepper 

/2  CUP  boiled  rice  %  teaspoon  onion  juice 

4  eggs 

Soak  the  codfish  in  cold  water;  dram;  place  over  the  fire  in 
fresh  water;  bring  to  a  boil  and  drain  again.  Mix  with  the  rice; 
add  the  seasoning;  place  in  a  hot  buttered  pan  and  stir  until  the 
entire  mixture  is  heated.  Then  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten;  cooJ* 
for  a  minute  and  serve. 

BEAUREGARD   EGGS 

6  eggs  1  cup  cream  sauce 

6  slices  buttered  toast 

Put  the  eggs  in  the  water  over  the  fire  and  let  them  "simmer" 
for  twenty  minutes.  Prepare  the  toast  and  set  it  in  the  oven 
to  keep  hot.  Remove  the  eggs  from  their  shells;  cut  them  m 
halves  lengthwise  or  chop  them  fine  and  put  them  over  the  toast. 
Make  a  cream  sauce;  pour  over  all;  garnish  with  parsley  and 
serve. 

EGGS  JAPANESE 

<&  eggs  1/2  teaspoon  onion  juice 

4  sardines  Salt  and  pepper 

1  teaspoon  anchovy  paste  2  cups  boiled  rice 

1  cup  cream  sauce 

Boil  the  eggs  for  fifteen  minutes;  remove  the  shells  and  cut 
them  in  halves  lengthwise.  Take  out  the  yolks;  mash  them;  mix 
with  the  sardines,  minced;  add  the  seasoning  and  return  to  the  egg 
cavities.  Place  the  rice  in  a  mound  on  a  heated  platter;  on  it 
arrange  the  eggs;  cover  all  with  cream  sauce;  garnish  with  parcley 
and  serve. 

115  L-L 


EGGS  planned  ror  a 


Family  of  Four 


SPANISH  EGGS 


2  slices  onion  2  tablespoons  tongue 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  Dash  of  red  pepper 

2  cups  mushrooms  1  saltspoon  salt 
1  cup  cooked  tomatoes  3  eggs 

Cook  the  onion  in  the  oil  until  light  brown;  add  the  mushrooms, 
tomatoes,  seasoning  and  tongue,  minced  fine.  Last  of  all,  add  the 
eggs,  unbeaten.  As  soon  as  the  eggs  are  set  the  mixture  is  ready 
to  serve. 


116 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 


//  the  heat  of  summer,  the  health  of  the  body,  or  any  other  reason, 
make  it  desirable  to  reduce  the  daily  meat  ration,  no  one  need  be  con- 
cerned; the  bounty  of  Nature  provides  many  healthful  and  agreeable 
substitutes. 

— Everyday  Science. 


US 


npr 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 

FIAT  meat  in  the  diet  is  not  essential  for  efficiency— for  many 
people  at  least— is  shown  by  the  fact  that  a  Chinese  coolie, 
for  a  day's  work,  carried  a  pack  of  tea  weighing  a  hundred  and 
fifty  pounds  over  forty  miles  of  road  on  a  diet  almost  exclusively 
of  rice;  that  the  almost  indefatigable  Japanese  soldiers  are  rice- 
fed;  that  a  vegetarian  won  the  recent  walking  race  of  the  British 
Isles  from  Land's  End  to  John  o'  Groats,  doing  the  nine  hundred 
and  eight  miles  in  less  than  seventeen  days. 

Whether  or  not  the  use  of  meat  is  best  for  health  and  efficiency 
has  never  been  fully  agreed  upon.  It  is  more  or  less  a  personal 
question,  depending  to  a  great  extent  upon  the  dietary  habits 
formed  in  childhood,  and  upon  one's  occupation;  but  doubtless 
we,  as  a  nation,  eat  too  much  meat.  In  many  American  homes, 
meat  is  eaten  three  times  a  day.  This  mistaken  idea  of  being 
well-fed  may  have  come  about  because  of  lack  of  knowledge  of 
the  amount  of  protein  contained  in  some  other  foods. 

A  quart  of  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  moderately  fat 
beef,  and  five  ounces  of  bread,  all  contain  about  the  same  amount 
of  nutritive  material.  The  milk  comes  the  nearest  of  being  a 
perfect  food.  Cheese,  made  of  the  curd  of  milk,  stands  almost  at 
the  head  of  the  list  of  foods  as  far  as  nutritive  value  is  concerned; 
but  in  large  amounts,  or  when  cooked  at  high  temperature,  it  is 
not  readily  digested  by  some  people.  In  cooking,  it  should  be 
diluted  with  milk  or  used  with  other  food,  because  it  is  so  highly 
concentrated;  and  it  should  be  well  masticated.  The  question 
of  digestion  is  again  a  personal  one,  about  which  no  wholesale 
statement  can  be  made.  It  is  well  to  serve  such  green  vegetables 
as  lettuce,  watercress,  celery,  with  this  concentrated  food. 

In  looking  for  ideal  meat  substitutes,  eggs  immediately  suggest 

119  L~L 


MEAT   SUBSTITUTES 


themselves,  not  only  because  of  their  high  nutritive  value,  but 
because  of  their  pleasing  appearance  when  cooked,  and  because  of 
the  great  variety  of  dishes  which  can  be  made  from  their  use. 

Among  vegetables  rich  in  protein  and  in  fuel  value,  dried  beans, 
peas,  and  lentils  are  excellent  substitutes  for  meat.  They  contain 
as  much  protein  as  meat,  and  their  fuel  value  is  almost  equal  to 
that  of  cheese,  and  they  are  used  extensively  by  people  who,  cither 
from  choice  or  necessity,  eat  little  or  no  meat.  Care  must  be 
taken,  however,  to  have  them  very  thoroughly  cooked.  The  impov- 
erished Mexican  uses  at  almost  every  meal  the  native  bean  or 
frijole,  made  palatable  with  green  vegetables  and  chile  or  red 
pepper.  There  is  a  Hindoo  proverb,  "Rice  is  good,  but  lentils 
are  my  life,"  showing  in  what  esteem  the  protein  of  the  lentil 
was  held  even  among  ancient  peoples. 

Nuts  also  are  used  as  substitutes  for  meat;  for  they  are  very 
rich  in  oil,  with  only  a  small  percentage  of  starch  and  sugar,  and 
are  also  rich  in  nitrogen  (protein)  .  Though  frequently  indigestible 
when  used  by  themselves,  if  properly  combined  with  other  foods, 
they  should  be  quite  easy  of  digestion  by  any  normal  person. 

DINNERS   WITHOUT  MEAT 

Monday 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP 
BAKED  OMELET  CREAMED  ONIONS 

BAKED  POTATOES 
LEMON  MERINGUE  COFFEE 

Tuesday 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

LENTILS  A  LA  CREOLE  MASHED  POTATOES 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 
COFFEE  JELLY  PEANUT  CAKES 

Wednesday 

PEACH  COCKTAIL 

BAKED  MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE  STEWED  ONIONS 

LETTUCE  SALAD 

STEWED  FRUIT  SPONGE  CAKE 

COFFEE 

120  L-t, 


Planned  for  a 


FamUyofF<fu?  MEAT     SUBSTITUTES 


Thursday 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 
CHEESE  OMELET  CEEAMED  POTATOES 

ASPARAGUS 
FROZEN  STRAWBERRIES  WAFERS 

Friday 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS  BROWN  BREAD 

GREEN  PEAS 

FRUIT  SALAD 

NUTS  CRACKERS  CREAM  CHEESE 

Saturday 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

CORN  AND  CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES  SCALLOPED  TOMATOES 

WATERCRESS 
FRENCH  TART  COFFEE 

Sunday 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP 
NUT  ROAST  BAKED  RICE 

GREEN  PEAS 

GRAPE-FRUIT  SALAD 

MAPLE  MOUSSE  KISSES 


DRIED  PEAS,  BEANS  AND   LENTILS 

The  dried  legumes  are  excellent  if  properly  cooked,  and  form  a 
palatable  dish  if  simply  boiled  until  tender  and  seasoned  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt. 

The  first  important  step  is  the  swelling  and  softening  of  the 
legume  by  soaking  in  water  a  number  of  hours,  usually  not  less 
than  eight,  and  the  removal  of  such  parts  as  will  not  soften  by 
cooking.  The  skin  of  the  ripened  pea  and  lentil  is  easily  removed, 
and  both  peas  and  lentils  are  therefore  more  easily  prepared  than 
beans.  Many  kinds  of  beans,  however,  after  proper  soaking  may 
be  freed  from  their  skins  by  stirring  in  water.  The  skins  rise  to 
the  top  and  can  be  skimmed  off.  The  large  lima  beans  after 
soaking  may  easily  be  slipped  out  of  the  skins  by  pressing  them 
between  the  fingers. 

Soft  water  should  be  used  for  both  soaking  and  boiling  the 
legumes;  but  if  neither  is  available,  simply  boil  the  water  before 
using  and  pour  it  from  the  sediment.  In  soaking  beans  baking 
soda  may  be  used  to  soften  the  water  (using  a  quarter  teaspoon 
of  soda  dissolved  in  one  quart  of  water  to  every  pound  of  beans), 

121  L-L 


MEAT   SUBSTITUTES »C5g3SK 

as  it  increases  the  digestibility  of  the  beans  and  does  not  destroy 
the  flavor.  .    .      .      „  . 

Dried  peas,  beans  and  lentils  are  better  if  cooked  slowly  all  day, 
If  desired,  the  flavor  may  be  improved  by  the  addition  of  onion, 
flavoring  herbs  or  meat  stock.  The  legumes  may  be  left  whole  or 
mashed  through  a  sieve.  In  either  case  they  will  be  greatly  im- 
proved by  the  addition  of  butter  and  abundant  seasoning;  the 
salt  should  be  cooked  with  them,  allowing  one  half  tablespoon  tor 
one  pint  of  beans,  and  the  pepper  added  with  the  butter. 

LENTILS  A  LA  CREOLE 

1/2  cup  lentils  1  sma11  onion 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  tomatoes 

1  green  pepper  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  boiled  nee 

Let  the  lentils  soak  over  night  in  water,  adding  a  pinch  of  bak- 
ing soda  if  the  water  is  hard.  In  the  morning,  drain;  cover  with 
fresh  water  and  let  simmer  for  one  half  hour;  drain  again;  cover 
with  hot  water  and  let  simmer  slowly  until  the  lentils  are  tender. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  melt;  add  the  pepper  and  onion, 
both  finely  chopped;  stir  and  cook  until  the  butter  is  browned. 
Add  the  tomatoes,  canned  or  raw;  season  to  taste;  and  into  tJ 
empty  the  lentils  after  they  have  been  drained  and  mashed  through 
a  colander.  Cook  slowly  for  about  thirty  minutes;  pour  into  a 
deep  platter  and  surround  with  a  border  of  rice. 

BAKED  LENTILS 

1  pint  lentils  l/2  small  onion 

ant  water  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  ounces  salt  pork  1A  teaspoon  pepper 

Pick  and  wash  the  lentils  and  soak  them  in  cold  water  over 
night.     In  the  morning  put  them  over  the  fire  in  a  large  saucepan 
with  about  a  quart  of  water.     As  soon  as  the  water  begins  to  boil 
the  lentils  will  rise  to  the  top.     Remove  them  with  a>  skimmer; 
put  them  in  a  deep  baking  dish  with  the  pork  and  onion  in  t 
center  and  pour  over  them  the  pint  of  boiling  water,  in  which  th 
salt  and  pepper  have  been  mixed.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  four 
or  five  hours.    The  lentils  must  be  kept  moist  and  it  may  be  ne*es- 
sary  to  add  a  little  water  from  time  to  time. 

122 


MEAT   SUBSTITUTES 


BAKED  BEANS 

1  pint  dried  beans  */2  teaspoon  salt 

l/4  pound  salt  pork  Dash  of  pepper 

1  cup  water  1  tablespoon  molasses 

Soak  the  beans  over  night,  adding  a  little  soda  to  the  water. 
In  the  morning  cook  them  gently  until  the  skins  begin  to  break; 
then  drain  off  the  water,  saving  one  cup.  Empty  the  beans  into 
a  baking  dish;  bury  the  pork  in  them,  rind  side  up,  and  pour  over 
them  the  cup  of  water  saved,  into  which  has  been  stirred  the  salt, 
pepper  and  molasses.  If  desired,  a  little  mustard  or  onion  or 
more  molasses  may  be  added.  Cover  the  beans  and  let  them  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  for  four  or  five  hours.  Serve  with  Boston  brown 
bread. 

PUREE  OF  DRIED   BEANS 

1  pint  beans  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  drippings  l/2  saltspoon  pepper 

l/2  teaspoon  sugar  1  cup  hot  milk 

Cook  the  beans  until  very  soft;  drain  well,  saving  the  water, 
and  rub  through  a  puree  sieve.  Put  one  pint  of  the  strained  beans 
in  a  saucepan  with  the  butter  or  savory  drippings  and  seasoning 
and  add  the  hot  milk  gradually  until  a  thick  mush  is  formed.  Heap 
the  puree  in  the  center  of  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  fried  bacon, 
sausages  or  mutton  chops. 

A  soup  may  be  made  with  the  water  in  which  the  beans  were 
cooked  and  the  remainder  of  the  strained  beans. 

Dried  peas  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

DRIED  BEANS  SAUTE 

1  pint  beans  V2  tablespoon  salt 

ll/2  tablespoons  butter  or  drippings      l/4  teaspoon  pepper 

Soak  the  beans  and  cook  them  until  tender  but  not  broken;  then 
drain  off  the  water  and  save  it  for  soup.  Put  the  butter  or  savory 
drippings  in  a  pan  over  the  fire  and  when  hot  put  in  the  drained 
beans  which  have  been  seasoned.  Cook  over  a  hot  fire  for  fifteen 
minutes,  frequently  turning  the  beans  with  a  fork;  then  cover 
and  let  them  cook  for  half  an  hour  where  they  will  not  burn.  If 
desired  moist,  a  half  cup  of  stock,  milk  or  water  may  be  added 
before  putting  them  to  cook  for  the  last  half  hour. 

123  L-L 


MEAT   SUBSTITUTES 


Planned  for 


BEANS  MEXICAN 

2  cups  pink  beans  1  tablespoon  drippings 

6  cups  water  1  chile  pepper 

1  small  onion  Salt 

Wash  the  beans  and  soak  them  in  the  water  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  the  onion;  boil  gently  until  soft;  then  drain,  saving 
the  water.  Put  the  grease  in  a  large  skillet;  when  sizzling  hot 
add  the  drained  beans  and  stir  thoroughly  until  each  bean  seems 
to  have  a  coating  of  the  fat  and  begins  to  burst.  Add  one  cup  oi 
the  water  in  wrhich  the  beans  were  boiled;  gently  crush  a  few  of 
the  beans  to  thicken  it;  add  the  remainder  of  the  water,  salt  to 
tnste  and  the  chile  pepper,  finely  chopped.  Simmer  until  the  beans 
are  almost  dry  and  serve. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE 

Set  a  gallon  or  more  of  thick  sour  milk  in  warm  water,  or  in  a 
warm  place  until  it  reaches  a  temperature  of  180°  F.  Let  stand 
at  this  temperature  for  an  hour  or  more,  until  the  curd  separates 
from  the  whey  and  seems  firm.  Turn  gently  into  a  piece  of  cheese- 
cloth; hang  up  to  drain  for  several  hours;  chop  and  mix  salt  and 
cream  through  the  mass,  working  the  mixture  well  with  the  hands. 

BOSTON  ROAST 

1  pound  cooked  kidney  beans  Bread  crumbs 

V2  pound  grated  cheese  Salt  and  red  pepper 

Butter  and  water 

Mash  the  beans  or  put  them  through  a  meat  grinder;  add  the 
cheese,  salt  and  sufficient  bread  crumbs  to  make  the  mixture  stiff 
enough  to  form  into  a  roll.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting 
occasionally  with  butter  and  water.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

PIMIENTO  ROAST 

2  cups  cooked  lima  beans  3  canned  pimientoes 
1A  pound  cream  or  cottage  cheese        Bread  crumbs 

Butter  and  water 

Chop  the  first  three  ingredients  or  put  them  through  a  meat 
chopper;  mix  thoroughly  and  add  bread  crumbs  until  the  mixture 
is  stiff  enough  to  form  a  roll.  Brown  in  the  oven,  basting  occa- 
sionally with  butter  and  water. 

124  L-L 


MEAT   SUBSTITUTES 


BAKED   MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE 

1  cup  broken  macaroni  1  pint  cream  sauce 

2  quarts  boiling  salted  water  1  cup  grated  cheese 

1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  the  water  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes; 
drain  and  blanch  with  cold  water.  Put  the  macaroni  in  a  pudding 
dish  in  layers,  covering  each  with  cream  sauce  and  grated  cheese 
and  making  the  top  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  the  oven  until 
the  crumbs  are  brown. 

BAKED   CRACKERS  WITH   CHEESE 

10  butter  crackers  or  Boston  1  tablespoon  flour 

crackers  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

iy2  cups  milk  y2  cup  buttered  bread 
1  cup  grated  cheese       .  crumbs 

Split  the  crackers  if  they  are  thick  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut 
them  into  pieces  of  uniform  size.  Pour  the  milk  over  them  and 
drain  it  off  at  once.  Then  make  a  sauce  with  the  milk,  flour, 
cheese  and  salt.  Into  a  buttered  baking  dish  put  alternate  layers 
of  soaked  cracker  and  sauce.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

MIGAS 

Soak  slices  of  stale  bread  and  squeeze  dry.  Put  olive  oil  or 
drippings  in  a  frying  pan  and  when  boiling  hot  drop  in  an  onion 
chopped  fine,  a  little  ground  chile  and  a  pinch  of  sweet  marjoram. 
Lay  the  slices  of  bread  in  this  with  plenty  of  fresh  cheese  (prefer- 
ably goats'  cheese),  finely  broken,  and  fry  for  about  ten  minutes. 
Remove  to  a  hot  plate;  cover  with  grated  cheese,  stoned  ripe 
olives  and  chopped  hard-boiled  egg. 

CORN  AND  CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  grated  cheese 

1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper  1  cup  corn 
l/4  CUP  flour  3  eggs 

2  cups  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  the  butter  and  cook  the  pepper  thoroughly  in  it;  make  a 
sauce  by  adding  the  flour,  milk  and  cheese;  add  the  corn, 
yolks  of  eggs  and  seasoning;  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites;  turn 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty 
minutes. 

125  L-L 


MEAT   SUBSTITUTES 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

2  tablespoons  butter  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  Dash  of  red  pepper 

V2  cup  scalded  milk  V4  cup  grated  cheese 
3  eggs 

Melt  the  butter  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  flour;  then  add 
the  hot  milk  gradually  and  the  salt,  red  pepper  and  cheese.  Re- 
move from  the  fire  and  add  the  beaten  yolks.  Cool  the  mixture; 
fold  in  the  beaten  whites;  pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and 
cook  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  at  once  or  the 
souffle  will  not  be  light. 

CHEESE  ROLLS 

A  large  variety  of  rolls  may  be  made  by  combining  cooked 
beans,  lentils  or  peas  with  cheese  and  adding  bread  crumbs  to  make 
the  mixture  thick  enough  to  form  into  a  roll.  Beans  are  usually 
mashed,  but  peas  or  lima  beans  may  be  combined  whole  with 
bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese  and  enough  of  the  water  in  which 
the  vegetables  have  been  cooked  to  insure  the  right  consistency. 

Chopped  spinach,  beet  greens  or  lettuce  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  legumes  if  desired. 

Cottage  cheese,  cream  cheese,  American  or  English  dairy  cheese 
may  be  used. 

BAKED  RICE 

2  cups  boiled  rice  l/z  cup  milk 

1  cup  grated  cheese  Salt  and  red  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter  Bread  crumbs 

Arrange  the  rice  in  a  baking  dish  in  layers,  covering  each  with 
cheese,  a  little  milk,  butter,  salt  and  red  pepper.  Spread  bread 
crumbs  over  all  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  crumbs  are 
browned. 

English  dairy  cheese  is  preferred  for  this,  although  American 
cheese  will  do. 

ENGLISH  RICE 

^2  cup  rice  1A  cup  cooked  tomatoes 

1^  cup  pecans  1  saltspoon  salt 

Dash  of  pepper 

Wash,  boil  and  drain  the  rice.  Strain  the  tomatoes  and  add  to 
them  the  seasoning.  Put  a  layer  of  rice  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking 

126  L-L 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 


dish,  then  a  layer  of  nuts,  then  rice,  then  nuts  again  until  the  entire 
quantity  is  used,  making  the  last  layer  of  rice.  Pour  the  tomatoes 
over  this  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 

PEANUT  BUTTER 

Nuts  are  found  indigestible  chiefly  because  of  the  impossibility 
of  grinding  them  fine  enough  with  the  teeth.  The  value  of  nut 
butters  is  therefore  obvious. 

Almost  any  kind  of  nut  will  make  good  butter,  but  peanuts  are 
perhaps  the  best  and  the  most  generally  available.  Pound  freshly 
roasted  nuts  in  a  mortar  or  put  them  through  a  chopper,  using  the 
knife  designed  especially  for  the  making  of  nut  butters.  Season 
with  salt  and  add  a  little  olive  oil  if  desired.  In  most  cases  the  oil 
from  the  nuts  is  sufficient  to  moisten  the  butter. 


NUT  AND   FRUIT   CHEESE 

14  pound  figs  2  ounces  almonds 

1A  pound  seeded  raisins  2  ounces  pine  nuts 

14  pound  dates  2  ounces  Brazil  nuts 

1A  pound  pecans 


Wash  the  fruit  and  stone  the  dates.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the 
nuts  and  put  through  a  meat  chopper.  Press  the  mixture  into 
baking  powder  tins  and  stand  in  a  cool  place.  When  wanted  for 
use  loosen  the  sides  with  a  thin  knife-blade  and  turn  out  on  a 
board.  Cut  into  thin  slices  and  serve  in  the  place  of  meat  or  put 
between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

NUT  ROAST 

1/2  cup  lentils  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1/2  cup  shelled  roasted  peanuts  l/2  saltspoon  pepper 

1/2  cup  toasted  bread  crumbs  Milk 

Soak  the  lentils  over  night;  in  the  morning  drain,  cover  with 
fresh  water  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Drain  again;  put  in  fresh  water 
and  cook  until  tender.  Drain  once  more;  throw  away  the  water 
and  press  the  lentils  through  a  colander.  To  them  add  the  nuts, 
either  ground  or  chopped,  the  bread  crumbs  and  seasoning  and 
milk  sufficient  to  make  the  mixture  the  consistency  of  mush.  Put 
into  a  greased  baking  dish;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour; 
turn  out  on  a  heated  platter;  garnish  with  parsley  or  watercress 
and  serve. 

127  L-L 


MEAT     SUBSTITUTES  Planned  fora 


Family  of  Four 


VEGETABLE   MEAT   PIE 


l/2  cup  lima  beans  Vfe  cup  hot  milk 

V4  cup  peanuts  1  hard-boiled  egg 

Vi  cup  almonds  J/2  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

4  potatoes  Vz  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

l/4  cup  flour  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

V2  saltspoon  pepper 

Soak  the  beans  over  night ;  in  the  morning  let  them  boil  rapidly 
for  one-half  hour.  Drain;  slip  the  beans  from  their  skins  and 
split  in  halves.  Blanch  the  almonds  and  chop  them  with  the 
peanuts.  Boil  the  potatoes,  and  cut  two  into  small  cubes.  Mash 
the  remaining  two  and  use  for  a  dough,  adding  four  tablespoons 
of  the  hot  milk,  a  little  salt  and  the  flour.  Put  layers  of  beans  in 
the  baking  dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  nuts,  egg,  potato  cubes 
and  seasoning.  Roll  out  potato  dough  to  cover;  bake  half  hour. 

NUT   SOUFFLE 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  Vk  teaspoon  salt 

Vfc  cup  milk  Dash  of  pepper 

l/2  CUP  chopped  nuts  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Put  the  milk  and  bread  crumbs  over  the  fire;  cook  until  per- 
fectly smooth,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  the  fire;  work 
in  the  nuts;  add  the  seasoning;  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
eggs;  turn  into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  at  once. 

ALMONDS   WITH   EGGS 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

2  tablespoons  sugar  V2  teaspoon  almond  extract 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon  3  ounces  chopped  almonds 
1  tablespoon  butter  White  of  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

3  eggs  Few  shredded  almonds 

Put  the  milk  into  a  saucepan  with  the  sugar  and  lemon  rind 
and  allow  it  to  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Blend  the  butter 
and  flour;  add  the  milk  mixture;  stir  until  it  boils;  then  cook 
for  five  minutes.  Beat  the  eggs;  add  the  flavorings  and  almonds, 
and  stir  all  into  the  first  mixture.  Stir  with  a  wooden  spoon 
over  the  fire  until  thick  like  batter;  then  turn  into  a  baking  dish. 
Cover  with  a  meringue  made  from  the  white  of  egg  and  sugar; 
brown  in  the  oven;  sprinkle  with  shredded  almonds  and  serve  hot. 

128  L-L 


LEFT-OVERS 


I  found  a  little  crust  of  bread  that  must  not  go  to  waste, 

80,  by  a  famous  recipe,  I  seasoned  it  to  taste. 

I  used  six  eggs,  a  pint  of  cream,  some  citron  and  some  spice, 

Two  lemons,  dates  and  raisins,  and  a  brimming  cup  of  rice. 

It  took  a  lot  of  things,,  I  know 

(That's  Iww  the  cook-book  read); 

And  no  one  cared  for  it — but  oh! 

I  saved  that  crust  of  bread. 

— Author  Unknown. 


130 


LEFT-OVERS 

EFT-OVERS  afford  the  cook  an  opportunity  for  the  display 
of  her  ingenuity  that  is  not  to  be  slighted.  To  concoct  a 
pleasing  dish  out  of  an  unpromising  left-over  is  a  small  triumph 
that  is  in  itself  its  own  reward.  Almost  any  one  can  succeed 
with  new  and  fresh  material,  but  to  take  old  materials  that  are 
too  good  to  be  wasted,  and  make  them  appear  new  and  tempting, 
is  a  branch  of  the  art  of  cooking  that  will  repay  the  extra  time  and 
study  that  it  takes.  Made-over  dishes  are  especially  useful  for 
luncheons  or  suppers,  when  only  a  light  meal  is  needed.  What 
otherwise  might  be  a  loss  of  good  food  can  often  be  made  to 
appear  on  the  table  as  a  most  desirable  addition  to  the  menu. 

There  are  throughout  this  book  many  recipes  that  call  for 
cold  meats  and  vegetables,  so  that  this  chapter  is  not  the  only 
one  to  be  studied  by  the  economical  cook.  See  especially  the 
chapter  on  "Entrees." 

BAKED   HASH 

2  cups  cold  meat  2  cups  cold  potatoes 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  cups  stock 

Seasoning  to  taste 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  stock;  add  the  meat  and  potato,  finely 
chopped  or  run  through  a  meat  chopper.  Season  to  taste;  put 
in  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  until  nicely  browned. 

CURRY   OF  BEEF 

2  cups  coldjbeef  Curry  sauce 

1  cup  boiled  rice 

Make  curry  sauce  according  to  directions  given  in  the  chapter 
on  "Sauces,"  page  101,  using  meat  stock  instead  of  boiling  water; 
add  the  beef,  finely  chopped;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  in  a  border 
of  hot  boiled  rice. 

131 


LEFT-OVERS 


CURRY  OF  LAMB 

Make  and  serve  the  same  as  curry  of  beef,  adding  a  half  teaspoon 
of  chopped  mint  if  desired. 

SCALLOPED  BEEF 

2  cups  cold  chopped  beef  1  cup  brown  sauce 

2  cups  cooked  tomatoes  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

Salt  and  pepper  2  tablespoons  butter 

In  a  baking  dish  arrange  alternate  layers  of  beef  and  tomatoes, 
seasoning  each  and  moistening  the  meat  with  brown  sauce  (or 
with  a  little  melted  butter  and  hot  water  if  there  has  been  no 
brown  sauce  left).  Cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of 
butter;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour  and  serve.  If 
it  begins  to  brown  too  quickly,  cover  with  another  pan. 

CREAMED  HASH 

1  pint  cold  meat  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

1  cu^  cream  sauce 

Chop  the  meat  very  fine;  season  it  and  add  the  onion  and  parsley. 
Make  the  cream  sauce  in  a  double  boiler;  stir  in  the  meat;  beat 
thoroughly  and  serve  on  squares  of  toasted  bread. 

MOCK  VENISON 

Cold  mutton  1  cup  water  or  stock 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  currant  jelly 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  tablespoon  bottled  meat  sauce 

Brown  the  flour  in  the  butter;  add  the  water  or  stock,  stirring 
constantly;  then  add  the  jelly  and  meat  sauce  and  bring  to  a  boil. 
Cut  the  cold  meat  into  thin  slices;  heat  them  thoroughly  in  the 
sauce  and  serve. 

CORNED-BEEF  HASH 

1  cup  cold  corned  beef  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  cold  boiled  potatoes  1  tablespoon  butter 

Milk  or  stock 

Chop  the  corned  beef,  discarding  the  gristle  but  using  some  of 
the  fat.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan;  add  the  beef  mixed 

132  L-L 


LEFT-OVERS 

Fish  Cutlets  Blanquette  of  Chicken  with  Peas  Cusk  a  la  Creme 


planned  for  a  f  "RFT-OVFR  ^ 

Family  of  Four  ^H, *  1  -U  V  JS-KS 

with  chopped  potatoes;  pour  over  enough  milk  or  stock  to  moisten; 
stir  until  well  mixed;  then  cook  slowly  until  browned  underneath. 
Fold  over  like  an  omelet  and  serve  garnished  with  parsley  and 
poached  eggs. 

FARMERS'  CABBAGE 

1  cup  cold  meat  1  cup  cooked  tomatoes 

1  cup  cooked  cabbage  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

Salt  and  pepper 

Chop  the  meat  into  small  pieces;  likewise  the  cabbage.  Put 
a  layer  of  meat  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish;  then  a  layer  of 
cabbage;  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes.  Continue  until  the  entire 
quantity  has  been  used,  seasoning  each  layer  as  you  go.  Cover 
all  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown. 
A  little  grated  cheese  may  be  added  to  the  top  if  desired. 

STEW  FROM   COLD   MEAT 

Free  the  meat  from  fat,  gristle  and  bones;  cut  into  small  pieces; 
add  salt  and  water  sufficient  to  cover  it.  Let  simmer  until 
almost  ready  to  break  in  pieces;  add  raw  onions  and  potatoes 
and  cook  until  tender,  adding  also  a  little  soup  stock  if  available. 
Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done;  thicken  with  flour  and  serve 
on  small  slices  of  toast. 

POTTED   MEAT 

1  pint  cold  meat  Salt  and  pepper 

2  ounces  butter  Dried  herbs 

Melted  suet 

Chop  the  meat  very  fine;  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  adding  gradually 
the  butter  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Pack  into  small  jars;  cover 
with  melted  suet  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

VEAL  CAKES 

1  pound  cold  chopped  veal  1  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

V2  potind  soaked  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoon  salt 

Dash  of  pepper  2  tablespoons  fat  or  butter 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  except  the  fat;  mold  into  small  cakes. 
Melt  the  fat  in  a  frying  pan  and  brown  the  cakes  in  it,  first  on  one 
side,  then  OH  the  other. 

10  133  L-L 


T  TT  T7T    A  VT7D  Q  Planned  for  a 

LiCiT  i-UV  JS.K.O Family  of  Four 

BLANQUETTE   OF   CHICKEN 

2  cups  cold  chicken  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

1  cup  cream  sauce  Few  gratings  of  nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  Pinch  of  clove 

Heat  the  chicken  in  the  cream  sauce;   add  seasonings  and  serve. 

FISH   CUTLETS 

1  cup  cold  cooked  fish  l/2  teaspoon  chopped  onion 
V2  cup  milk  l/2  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

2  tablespoons  butter  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  Dash  of  red  pepper 

Yolk  of  1  egg  Uncooked  macaroni 

Bread  crumbs  and  egg 

Make  a  cream  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  milk;  add  the  egg, 
then  the  fish  and  seasonings.  Mix  carefully  and  let  cool;  form 
into  cutlet  shapes;  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot 
fat.  Insert  in  each  cutlet  a  small  piece  of  uncooked  macaroni 
to  represent  the  bone;  conceal  place  of  insertion  with  chopped 
parsley. 

FISH  CROQUETTES 

Mold  the  cutlet  mixture  into  cones;  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and 
fry  in  hot  fat.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley. 

CUSK  A  LA   CREME 

1  pint  cold  fish  !/2  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1  pint  milk  l/2  tablespoon  bu  ter 

1  blade  mace  Yolk  of  1  egg 

1  sprig  parsley  1  bay  leaf 

Put  the  milk  with  the  mace,  parsley  and  bay  leaf  in  a  double 
boiler;  bring  to  a  boil;  remove  the  mace,  parsley  and  bay  leaf 
and  add  the  cornstarch  and  butter,  well  rubbed  together.  Then 
add  the  beaten  egg  and  season  to  taste.  Fill  a  baking  dish  with 
alternate  layers  of  fish  and  sauce;  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  in  the  oven  until  the  crumbs  are  browned, 

SCALLOPED   FISH 

1  pint  cold  cooked  fish  1  pint  cream  sauce 

Butter  Bread  crumbs 

Put  the  fish  in  a  baking  dish  with  the  cream  sauce.  Cover  with 
bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  and  bake  until  brown. 

134  M.; 


VEGETABLES 


And  what  the  creatures  did  eat — seeds,  roots,  bulbs,  tubers,  stalks, 
shoots,  leaves,  flowers,  fruits,  fungi!  They  called  them  beans  and 
peas;  turnips  and  carrots;  onions  and  garlic;  potatoes  and  arti- 
chokes; asparagus  and  poke;  celery  and  chard;  cauliflower  and 
broccoli;  tomatoes  and  cucumbers;  and  mushrooms! 

f      — Visitor*  from  Mars. 


136 


VEGETABLES 

A,L  the  elements  needed  for  nutrition  are  found  in  vegetables. 
In  beans,  peas,  lentils,  and  other  legumes,  much  protein  is 
furnished,  and  for  this  reason  they  can  often  be  used  in  place  of 
meat.  (See  chapter  on  "Meat  Substitutes.")  In  such  vegetables 
as  potatoes  and  squash  there  is  an  abundance  of  starchy  or  fuel- 
and-energy  food.  From  olives,  nuts,  and  corn  come  oils  which 
are  also  fuel-and-energy  foods.  Lettuce,  spinach,  cabbage,  turnips, 
carrots,  tomatoes,  and  other  succulent  (juicy)  vegetables  contain 
the  valuable  mineral  matter  and  vitamins  which  no  chemist  save 
Nature  can  wisely  furnish. 

Perhaps  one  reason  why  vegetables  are  not  used  in  greater 
variety  is  that  they  are  not  always  properly  cooked.  Over-cooking 
lessens  the  food  value  of  many  vegetables,  destroys  their  color, 
and  tends  to  make  them  tasteless  and  tough.  Green  vegetables 
should  not  be  permitted  to  boil  one  minute  after  they  begin  to 
lose  their  green  color.  As  a  rule,  root  vegetables,  such  as  turnips, 
carrots,  and  salsify  are  best  cooked  in  unsalted  water,  gently  boiling. 
This  applies  emphatically  to  turnips.  Never  soak  wilted  vege- 
tables in  salted  water,  for  salt  hardens  the  fiber.  This  is  particu- 
larly true  of  cucumbers.  Use  fresh  cold  water. 

Potatoes  should  be  thinly  pared,  not  so  much  for  economy,  as 
to  save  the  mineral  matters  which  are  stored  close  to  the  skin. 
Jacket-boiled  potatoes  retain  most,  and  baked  potatoes  retain 
practically  all  of  these  valuable  food  adjuncts. 

Canned  goods  are  improved  if  the  contents  are  removed  from 
the  container  upon  opening,  and  exposed  to  the  air  for  an  hour  or 
more  to  re-oxygenate. 

Delicate  vegetables  containing  sugar,  such  as  green  peas  and 
sweet  corn,  lose  flavor  and  sweetness  every  minute  after  leaving 

137  fc-L 


VEGETABLES 


the  mother-stalk.     Leave  them  in  pod  or  husk  until  ready  to  cook, 
and  then  serve  as  nearly  immediately  as  possible. 

Start  vegetables  with  boiling  water.  With  very  few  exceptions, 
they  should  be  left  uncovered,  or  only  partially  covered,  to  permit 
exposure  to  the  air.  Of  course  this  does  not  apply  when  a  steamer 
is  used  in  cooking, 

CABBAGE 

Divide  a  small  head  of  cabbage  into  four  parts,  cutting  down 
through  the  stock;  soak  for  one-half  hour  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  to 
which  has  been  added  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar;  then  remove  from 
the  water  and  cut  in  slices.  Have  a  large  saucepan  full  of  boiling 
water;  put  in  the  cabbage,  pushing  the  slices  under  the  water  with 
a  spoon;  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  cook  from  twenty-five  to 
sixty  minutes,  according  to  the  age  of  the  cabbage.  Drain  through 
a  colander;  then  put  in  a  chopping  bowl  and  mince.  Season 
with  butter,  pepper  and  more  salt  if  needed,  and  stand  over  the 
fire  for  a  few  minutes  to  reheat.  Allow  a  tablespoon  of  butter  to 
a  pint  of  cooked  cabbage. 

The  addition  of  a  quarter  teaspoon  of  bi-carbonate  of  sod;i 
reduces  the  time  of  cooking,  helps  retain  color  and  lessens  the  odor. 


CABBAGE   WITH   PORK 

For  a  small  head  of  cabbage  use  half  a  pound  of  minced  salt 
pork.  Boil  the  pork  gently  for  three  or  four  hours.  Prepare  the 
cabbage  as  for  plain  boiled  cabbage;  drain  well  and  put  on  to  boil 
with  the  pork.  Boil  and  serve  the  pork  with  the  cabbage.  A 
little  additional  salt  may  be  needed. 

Smoked  bacon  or  ham  or  corned  beef  may  be  substituted  for  the 
pork;  but  these  are  usually  better  if  cooked  separately  from  the 
cabbage. 


LADY   CABBAGE 

Prepare  and  cook  the  cabbage  in  the  usual  way.  Chop  very 
fine;  return  to  the  fire;  cover  with  milk;  season;  bring  to  a  boil 
and  serve. 

138  I.-L 


Planned  for  a  VEGETABLES 

Family  of  Four ._ 

CREAMED   CABBAGE 

Make  a  cream  sauce;  add  the  boiled  cabbage,  chopped;  bring 
to  a  boil  and  serve,  sprinkling  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  the  top 
of  the  dish. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Remove  all  the  large  green  leaves  and  the  greater  part  of  the 
stalk,  and  soak,  head  down,  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  which  contains 
to  each  quart  of  water  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Put  in  a  large 
saucepan,  stem  end  down;  cover  with  boiling  water;  add  a  table- 
spoon of  salt  and  cook  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  head  and  its  compactness.  Remove  as  soon  as 
done,  for  overcooking  darkens  it. 

CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER 

Make  a  cream  sauce;  add  the  boiled  cauliflower,  broken  into 
pieces,  and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN 

Break  boiled  cauliflower  into  small  flowerets;  place  in  layers  in 
a  buttered  pudding  dish,  covering  each  with  cream  sauce  and 
grated  cheese.  Spread  buttered  bread  crumbs  over  the  top  of  the 
dish  and  bake  until  brown. 

CAULIFLOWER  POLONAISE 

1  head  cauliflower  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

iy2  teaspoons  mustard  1A  cup  olive  oil 

1V4  teaspoons  salt  J/2  cup  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

y2  teaspoon  paprika  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Cook  the  cauliflower  as  usual;  when  done  break  into  flowerets 
and  cover  with  a  sauce  made  from  the  other  ingredients.  Mix 
the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  beaten  eggs,  then  the  oil  and 
vinegar.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  the  mixture  thickens;  re- 
move from  fire  and  add  the  butter  and  parsley. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS 

Remove  the  wilted  or  yellow  leaves  from  the  sprouts;  cut 
the  stock  close  to  the  heads,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour 

139  **• 


VEGETABLES 


or  more.  Drain  well  and  empty  them  into  boiling  salted  water, 
allowing  one  teaspoon  of  salt  to  two  quarts  of  water.  Boil  rapidly 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  heads; 
when  done,  turn  into  a  colander  and  pour  cold  water  over  the 
heads.  Reheat  in  butter  and  seasoning  or  in  cream  sauce. 

KALE 

Remove  all  the  old  or  tough  leaves;  wash  the  kale  thoroughly 
and  drain.  Put  it  into  boiling  water  to  which  has  been  added  salt 
in  the  proportion  of  one  half  tablespoon  to  two  quarts  of  water. 
Boil  rapidly,  uncovered,  until  the  vegetable  is  tender;  pour  off  the 
water;  chop  the  kale  very  fine;  return  it  to  the  kettle  with  one 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  two  of  meat  stock  or  water  to  every  pint 
of  the  minced  vegetable.  Add  more  salt  if  necessary;  cook  for  ten 
minutes  and  serve  at  once.  The  entire  time  for  cooking  varies 
from  thirty  to  fifty  minutes. 

BOILED  LETTUCE 

Lettuce  that  has  grown  too  old  for  salad  may  still  be  cooked, 
forming  a  very  palatable  dish.  Wash  four  or  five  heads  of  lettuce, 
removing  the  thick  bitter  stalks  and  retaining  only  the  sound 
leaves.  Cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes; 
drain  in  a  colander,  pouring  cold  water  over  them.  Chop  and  re- 
heat with  butter  and  seasoning  or  with  cream  sauce. 

BEET  GREENS 

Beets  are  usually  thickly  sowed,  and  as  the  young  plants  begin 
to  grow  they  must  be  thinned  out.  These  plants  make  delicious 
greens,  and  even  the  tops  of  the  ordinary  market  beets  are  good  if 
properly  prepared.  Examine  the  leaves  carefully  to  be  sure  that 
there  are  no  insects  on  them;  wash  thoroughly  in  several  waters, 
and  put  over  the  fire  in  a  large  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Add  a 
teaspoon  of  salt  for  every  two  quarts  of  greens;  boil  rapidly  about 
thirty  minutes  or  until  tender;  drain  off  the  water;  chop  well  and 
season  with  butter  and  salt. 

SPINACH 

Perhaps  no  other  vegetable  requires  such  care  in  the  preparation 
as  spinach.  In  the  first  place  it  takes  a  great  deal  of  time,  water 
and  patience  to  wash  it  clean.  Cut  off  the  roots;  break  the  leave? 

140  I--I. 


Planned  for  a  VTTfyPT  A  TIT  TT<N 
Family  of  Four V  J3AJ.&  1  API/ISO 

apart;  drop  them  in  a  large  pan  of  water;  rinse  well;  lift  them  out 
separately  and  drop  back  into  a  second  pan  of  water.  Continue 
washing  in  fresh  waters  until  there  is  not  a  grain  of  sand  to  be 
found  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Drain  the  spinach  and  drop  it 
into  boiling  water,  allowing  one  pint  of  water  and  one  tablespoon 
of  salt  to  a  half  peck  of  spinach.  Let  it  simmer  for  twenty 
minutes  or  more,  counting  from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil,  and 
drawing  the  cover  of  the  saucepan  to  one  side  to  allow  the  steam 
to  escape.  Empty  into  a  colander;  pour  cold  water  over  the 
spinach;  drain  and  mince  fine.  Return  to  the  fire  with  seasoning 
and  butter,  or  drippings  from  roast  beef  or  chicken  if  preferred. 
Garnish  with  hard-boiled  egg  or  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

DANDELIONS 

Gather  young  dandelion  plants  before  they  have  flowered;  cut 
off  the  roots;  wash  thoroughly;  boil  in  salted  water  about  one  hour, 
leaving  the  lid  partly  off.  Drain  and  chop  fine;  season  with  salt, 
pepper  or  vinegar,  and  a  liberal  measure  of  butter. 

If  cooked  with  half  spinach  or  beet  greens  it  is  less  bitter  and 
more  palatable  to  some  people.  In  this  case  the  dandelion  should 
be  partly  cooked  before  the  other  vegetable  is  added. 

LEEKS 

Wash  and  trim  the  leeks  and  cook  them  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  soft.  Drain  thoroughly;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

1  quart  peeled  and  cut  artichokes         1  tablespoon  butter 
1  pint  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  small  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

l/4  teaspoon  pepper 

Wash  and  peel  the  artichokes  and  cut  them  into  small  cubes; 
put  in  a  double  boiler;  cover  with  milk;  add  the  onion  and  cook 
twenty  minutes.  Beat  the  butter  and  flour  together  and  stir  them 
into  the  milk;  add  the  seasoning  and  cook  for  a  half  hour  longer- 

GLOBE  ARTICHOKES 

Remove  all  the  hard  outer  leaves;  cut  off  the  stems  close  to  tne 
leaves,  also  the  top  of  the  bud.  Drop  the  artichokes  in  boiling 

141  L-L 


Wanned  for  * 
Family  of  Four 


water  and  cook  until  tender,  from  thirty  to  fifty  minutes;  take  up 
and  remove  the  choke.  Serve  hot  with  melted  butter  or  cold  with 
French  salad  dressing. 

GREEN  PEAS 

Shell  the  peas  and  cover  them  sparingly  with  water;  bring  to  a 
boil;  then  push  aside  until  the  water  will  just  bubble  gently.  When 
the  peas  are  tender  add  salt  and  butter;  cook  ten  minutes  longer 
and  serve.  If  the  peas  are  not  the  sweet  variety,  add  a  teaspoon 
of  sugar. 

SUGAR  PEAS 

Sugar  peas  may  be  cooked  in  the  pods  like  string  beans.  Gather 
the  pods  while  the  seeds  are  still  very  small;  string  like  beans  and 
cut  into  pieces.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  gently  for 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes  or  until  tender.  Pour  off  most  of  the 
water,  saving  it  for  soup;  season  the  rest  with  salt  and  butter  and 
serve. 

STRING   BEANS 

Remove  the  strings  carefully;  break  the  pods  into  one-inch 
pieces;  wash  thoroughly;  add  just  enough  boiling  water  to  prevent 
burning,  salt  at  the  end  of  ten  minutes,  and  let  simmer  until  tender. 
Season  with  butter. 

Pork  may  be  boiled  with  the  beans  if  desired.  Boil  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  for  five  hours;  then  add  the  beans. 

GREEN  LIMA  BEANS 

Cover  the  shelled  beans  with  boiling  water;  bring  to  a  boil 
quickly  ;  then  let  them  simmer  slowly  until  tender.  Drain  and 
add  salt,  pepper  and  butter  or  hot  cream  or  cream  sauce. 

DRIED  BEANS  AND  PEAS 

Recipes  for  cooking  dried  beans  and  peas  will  be  found  in  the 
chapter  on  "Meat  Substitutes." 

BOILED  TURNIPS 

Have  the  turnips  peeled  and  sliced  and  drop  them  into  boiling 
water  sufficient  to  cover.  Cook  until  tender;  drain  well;  chop 
them  or  mash  with  a  wooden  potato  masher.  Season  with  salt, 
butter  and  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

142  L-I. 


VEGETABLES 


CARROTS 

Scrape  the  carrots  lightly;  cut  them  into  large  dice  or  slices  and 
drop  them  into  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water;  salt  at  the  end 
of  ten  minutes.  Boil  until  tender;  drain  and  serve  with  butter 
and  pepper  or  with  cream  sauce. 

CARROTS  AND  PEAS 

Cook  the  carrots;  add  an  equal  quantity  of  cooked  peas;  sea- 
son with  butter,  pepper  and  sa)t,  or  beat  both  together  in  a  cream 
sauce. 

PARSNIPS 

Wash  the  parsnips  clean;  boil  them  until  tender;  scrape  off  the 
skin  and  slice  them  into  a  vegetable  dish,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter  or  pouring  drawn  butter  over  them. 

If  preferred,  the  cooked  parsnips  may  be  chopped  rather  coarse, 
seasoned  and  returned  to  the  fire  with  milk  sufficient  to  cover  them. 
Thicken  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour  rubbed  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter; 
simmer  for  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

Still  another  method  of  serving  the  parsnips  is  to  fry  the  slices 
in  butter  after  they  have  been  boiled. 

KOHL-RABI 

Kohl-rabi  or  kale  turnip  is  a  cultivated  variety  of  kale  or  cab- 
bage, distinguished  by  the  swelling  of  the  stem  in  turnip  form. 
This  swollen  portion  is  used  for  food,  cooked  like  turnips  or  un- 
cooked in  slices  like  radishes. 

SALSIFY 

6  large  roots  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  3  pints  water 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  cream  sauce 

To  prevent  the  roots  from  turning  dark  they  must  be  dropped 
as  soon  as  they  are  pared  and  cut  into  the  mixture  of  flour,  salt, 
water  and  vinegar.  Wash  and  scrape  the  roots;  cut  them  into 
slices  about  three  inches  long  and  drop  them  into  the  prepared 
water.  Place  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  thirty  minutes 
after  it  begins  to  boil.  Drain  and  serve  with  white  or  cream  sauce. 

143  L-L 


VEGETABLES 


BEETS 

Wash  the  beets,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  skin  ;  cover  them 
with  boiling  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Remove  from  the  fire; 
drop  into  cold  water  and  rub  off  the  skins.  Cut  the  beets  into 
thin  slices  or  chop  them  if  not  young;  season  with  salt,  butter  and 
pepper  and  serve  at  once. 


PICKLED  BEETS 

If  beets  are  very  old  they  will  be  better  pickled  in  vinegar.  Boil 
and  slice  them;  cover  with  vinegar  and  let  stand  until  cold. 

CREAMED  CELERY 

Remove  the  leaves  from  the  stalks  of  celery;  scrape  off  all 
rusted  or  dark  spots;  cut  into  small  pieces  and  drop  in  cold  water. 
Have  boiling  water  ready;  put  the  celery  into  it,  and  salt  at  the 
end  of  ten  minutes.  ^  Boil  until  tender,  leaving  the  cover  partly 
off;  drain  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Make  a  cream  sauce;  drop 
the  celery  into  it;  heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

BOILED  ONIONS 

Peel  the  onions  and  cut  off  the  roots;  drop  each  into  cold  water 
as  soon  as  it  is  peeled.  When  all  are  ready,  drain  and  put  in  a 
saucepan  well  covered  with  boiling  water,  adding  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  for  every  quart  of  water.  Boil  rapidly  for  ten  minutes  with 
the  cover  off;  drain  and  return  to  the  fire  with  fresh  water. 
Simmer  until  tender;  add  pepper  and  butter  and  serve,  or  omit 
the  butter  and  pepper  and  pour  a  cream  sauce  over  the  onions. 

STEWED  ONIONS 

J%  P"its  onion  i/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  i/2  saltspoon  pepper 

Cut  the  onions  in  slices  and  boil  in  salted  water  for  ten  minutes- 
drain  and  return  to  the  saucepan  with  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper.' 
Cook  over  a  hot  fire  for  five  minutes;  then  cook  slowly  for  thirty 
or  forty  minutes.  Drippings  may  be  substituted  for  the  butter 
it  desired. 

144 


VEGETABLES 


,    SCALLOPED   ONIONS 

Cut  boiled  onions  into  quarters;  put  them  in  a  baking  dish 
and  mix  well  with  cream  sauce;  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and 
bits  of  butter  and  place  in  the  oven  until  the  crumbs  are  browned. 

FRIED  ONIONS 

6  onions  1  tablespoon  butter 

Salt  and  pepper 

Remove  the  skins  from  the  onions;  cut  them  in  slices  and  cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain;  add  the  butter 
and  fry  until  well  browned,  stirring  to  prevent  them  from  sticking. 
Season  and  serve  with  beefsteak  or  calf's  liver. 

STEWED  TOMATOES 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes;  remove  the  skins;  cut 
into  small  pieces  and  place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire.  Boil 
gently  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  and  season,  allowing  for  each 
quart  of  tomato  one  generous  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  sugar  and 
one  tablespoon  of  butter.  If  in  addition  to  this  seasoning  a  slice 
of  onion  has  been  cooked  with  the  tomatoes  from  the  beginning, 
the  flavor  will  be  greatly  improved. 

SCALLOPED    TOMATOES 

1  pint  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  pint  bread  crumbs  2  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  saltspoon  pepper 

Butter  a  baking  dish  and  in  it  put  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes 
and  bread  crumbs,  seasoning  each  layer  of  crumbs  and  covering 
it  with  small  pieces  of  butter.  Have  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  the  top. 
If  fresh  tomatoes  are  used  bake  one  hour,  if  canned,  a  half  hour. 
If  the  crumbs  begin  to  brown  too  quickly  cover  the  dish  with  a  tin 
plate. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES 

6  large  tomatoes  V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  l/2  saltspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion  1  tablespoon  butter 

Cut  a  slice  off  the  stem  end  of  the  tomato  and  scoop  out  the 
seeded  part.  Brown  the  onion  slightly  in  the  butter;  add  it  to  the 

145  L-L 


VEGETABLES  FamU^of  F°our 

bread  crumbs,  with  seasoning,  and  fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mix- 
ture. Place  them  in  a  shallow  baking  pan  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  about  thirty  minutes. 

FRIED  TOMATOES 

3  large  tomatoes  Flour 

Salt  and  pepper  Butter 

1  cup  cream  sauce 

Wash  the  tomatoes;  slice  them  in  half-inch  slices;  sprinkle  with 
salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  brown  lightly  in  butter.  Lay  on  a  hot 
platter  and  pour  over  them  a  cream  sauce  made  with  the  butter 
that  remains  in  the  pan. 

TURKISH  PILAF 

cup  rice  1  cup  stock 

cup  stewed  tomatoes  3  tablespoons  butter 

Strain  the  tomatoes  and  cook  them  with  the  rice  and  stock  in  a 
double  boiler  until  the  rice  is  tender;  add  the  butter  and  stir  it  >H 
without  mashing  the  rice. 

Serve  as  a  border  with  meat  or  as  a  vegetable.  If  desired,  a  little 
catsup  or  Chili  sauce  and  water  to  make  three  quarters  of  a  cup 
may  be  substituted  for  the  tomatoes. 

ASPARAGUS 

Cut  off  the  woody  part  of  the  asparagus  and  scrape  the  lower 
ends  of  the  stalks,  or  cut  off  all  but  the  very  tender  part,  saving 
the  pieces  for  cream  of  asparagus  soup.  Wash  the  stalks  and  tie 
them  in  bunches;  place  them  upright,  stem  end  down  in  a  deep 
saucepan.  Pour  in  boiling  water  sufficient  to  come  up  to  the  ten- 
der heads  but  not  to  cover  them;  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  for  each 
quart  of  water  and  place  the  saucepan  where  the  water  will  boil. 
Cook  until  tender,  leaving  the  cover  partly  off.  It  will  take  from 
fifteen  to  thirty  minutes  according  to  the  age  of  the  asparagus. 
Serve  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast,  seasoning  with  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt,  or  pouring  drawn  butter  or  cream  sauce  over  all. 
Save  the  water  for  vegetable  soup. 

If  preferred,  all  the  tender  part  of  the  asparagus  may  be  cut  into 
short  pieces,  boiled  in  water  sufficient  to  cover,  and  served  in 
cream  sauce  or  in  a  little  of  the  water  in  which  it  is  cooked,  seasoned 
frith  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

146  M 


Planned  for  a                                                                                         \ TT? p  T7T  A  T>T  T? Q 
Family  of  Four V  B  Lrk  1  A-P -L-k  b 

OKRA 

Wash  young  pods  and  boil  them  in  salted  water  until  tender, 
about  twenty  minutes ;  drain  and  reheat  for  five  minutes  in  cream, 
adding  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  or  cut  crosswise,  and  stew  with 
tomatoes. 


GREEN  PEPPERS   STUFFED 

6  peppers  l/4  teaspoon  basil 

Bread  crumbs  %  teaspoon  summer  savory 

2  teaspoons  salt  2  tablespoons  butter  or  drippings 

1  tablespoon  herbs  1  cup  white  sauce 

2  cups  white  stock  or  water 

Select  only  tender,  sweet  peppers.  Soak  in  water  bread  crumbs 
sufficient  to  make  one  pint  when  the  water  is  pressed  out;  mix 
with  the  seasonings  and  butter.  Cut  off  the  stem  end  of  each 
pepper;  carefully  remove  the  interior  and  fill  the  peppers  with  the 
prepared  dressing.  Place  in  a  shallow  baking  pan  and  pour 
around  them  the  white  sauce  thinned  with  the  stock  or  water. 
Bake  about  one  hour,  basting  frequently  with  the  sauce. 

Peppers  may  also  be  filled  with  a  well-seasoned  dressing  of 
chopped  meat,  with  or  without  the  addition  of  bread  crumbs  or 
boiled  rice. 

FRIED  EGGPLANT 

Cut  the  eggplant  in  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  pare 
them;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pile  one  upon  another,  placing  over 
them  a  plate  with  a  weight  on  top.  Let  stand  for  an  hour;  remove 
the  plate;  dip  the  slices  in  beaten  egg,  to  which  has  been  added  a 
tablespoon  of  water,  half  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon 
of  pepper.  Then  dip  the  slices  in  dried  bread  crumbs;  spread  on 
a  dish  for  twenty  minutes  or  more  and  fry  until  brown  in  deep  fat. 


BAKED  EGGPLANT 

Make  a  dressing  as  for  stuffed  peppers,  using,  however,  a  little 
more  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Cut  the  eggplant  in  two  lengthwise; 
scrape  out  the  inside;  mash  it  fine;  mix  with  the  dressing  and  re- 
turn to  the  shells.  Place  on  a  pan  in  the  oven  and  bake  forty-five 
minutes.  Serve  in  the  shells,  placing  a  doily  under  each  half. 

147 


VEGETABLES 


BROILED  EGGPLANT 

Slice  the  eggplant  and  drain  it  as  for  frying;  spread  the  slices  on 
a  dish;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  baste  with  olive  oil;  sprinkle 
with  dried  bread  crumbs  and  broil. 

SQUASH 

Summer  and  winter  squash  are  prepared  and  boiled  in  the  same 
way.  Wash  and  pare  the  squash;  cut  it  into  small  pieces;  cook 
in  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour;  mash  fine  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  plenty  of  butter. 

BAKED  SQUASH 

Wash  a  Hubbard  squash  and  cut  it  into  large  pieces,  removing 
the  pulp.  Place  these,  outer  side  down,  in  a  shallow  baking  dish 
and  bake  until  brown.  Baked  squash  is  eaten  like  baked  sweet 
potatoes  with  butter  and  salt. 

STEAMED   SQUASH 

Remove  the  top  of  a  Hubbard  squash  and  steam  the  rest  until 
tender.  Discard  the  pulp;  scoop  out  the  remainder  of  the  soft 
portion;  mash  it,  seasoning  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  re- 
heat; return  to  the  shell  and  score  the  dome-shaped  surface  with  a 
knife.  Place  the  squash  on  a  plate  with  a  doily  beneath  it  and 
serve. 

CORN  ON  THE  COB 

Free  the  corn  from  husks  and  silk;  have  a  kettle  of  water  boiling 
hard;  drop  the  corn  into  it  and  cook  ten  minutes  (or  longer  if  the 
corn  is  not  young).  If  a  very  large  number  of  ears  are  put  into 
the  water  they  will  so  reduce  the  temperature  that  a  longer  time 
will  be  needed.  In  no  case,  however,  should  the  corn  be  left  too 
long  in  the  water,  as  overcooking  spoils  the  delicate  flavor. 

CORN  OFF  THE  COB 

Corn  is  frequently  cut  from  the  cob  after  it  is  cooked  and  served 
in  milk  or  butter;  but  by  this  method  much  of  the  flavor  and  juice 
of  the  corn  itself  is  wasted.  It  is  better  to  cut  the  corn  from  the 
cob  before  cooking.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  the  grains,  not 
cutting  closely  enough  to  remove  any  of  the  woody  portion  or  the 

148  L-L 


VEGETABLES 


skins.  Then  with  a  knife  press  out  all  the  pulp  and  milk  remaining 
in  the  cob;  add  this  to  the  corn;  season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter;  add  a  little  more  milk  if  the  corn  is  dry;  cook,  preferably 
in  the  oven,  for  about  ten  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  If  the 
oven  is  not  hot,  cook  over  the  fire. 


SUCCOTASH 

To  a  pint  of  corn  cooked  off  the  cob  add  a  pint  of  cooked  and 
creamed  Lima  beans. 

CORN  PUDDING 

6  ears  corn  y2  teaspoon  sugar 

1  cup  hot  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

l/4  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  flour 
1  egg 

Prepare  the  corn  as  for  cooking  off  the  cob.  Melt  the  butter; 
mix  well  with  the  flour;  add  the  milk  gradually,  then  the  season- 
ing and  corn,  and  last  of  all  the  beaten  egg.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour. 


STEWED   MUSHROOMS 

1  pint  mushrooms  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter  Flour 

Wash  the  mushrooms;  peel  them  and  cut  off  the  bottom  of  the 
stalks.  Melt  the  butter;  add  the  mushrooms,  sprinkling  them 
with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Let  them  cook  slowly  in  the  butter 
and  their  own  liquor  for  about  fifteen  minutes. 

If  desired,  a  few  tablespoons  of  cream  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg 
may  be  added  to  the  butter,  and  the  mushrooms  served  on  small 
pieces  of  buttered  toast. 

BROILED   MUSHROOMS 

Wash  the  mushrooms;  remove  the  stems  and  peel  the  caps. 
Place  them  in  a  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes,  with  the  cap  side 
down  during  the  first  half  of  broiling.  Serve  on  circular  pieces  of 
buttered  toast,  sprinkling  with  salt  and  pepper  and  putting  a  small 
piece  of  butter  on  each  cap. 

11  149 


VEGETABLES 


BAKED  MUSHROOMS 

Choose  the  larger  mushrooms  for  baking.  Prepare  them  as  fo 
broiling  and  place  them  upside  down  in  a  shallow  baking  dish 
sprinkling  with  salt  and  pepper  and  placing  a  small  piece  of  buttei 
on  each.  Bake  for  about  twenty  minutes,  basting  with  a  little 
melted  butter. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  POULETTE 

Stew  the  mushrooms  in  cream;  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in 
the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Return  to  the  fire  to  let  the  eggs 
thicken;  then  serve  at  once. 


BOILED   CHESTNUTS 

Boil  the  chestnuts  a  few  minutes;  drain  and  remove  the  shells 
and  skins.  Boil  again  until  tender,  adding  sufficient  salt  to  make 
them  palatable.  Drain  again;  shake  over  the  fire  until  dry;  cover 
with  cream  sauce  and  serve  at  once.  If  allowed  to  stand  the  chest- 
nuts become  heavy  and  unappetizing. 


ROASTED  CHESTNUTS 

With  a  sharp  knife  cut  across  on  the  flat  side  of  each  chestnut; 
put  them  in  a  wire  pan  and  shake  constantly  over  a  hot  fire  until 
the  shells  split.  Serve  at  once. 

BOILED  POTATOES 

If  the  potatoes  are  to  be  boiled  in  their  skins,  cut  a  narrow  band 
of  skin  from  the  center  of  the  potato  and  small  pieces  from  the 
ends.  If  the  potatoes  are  to  be  peeled,  use  a  very  sharp  knife  and 
remove  as  thin  a  layer  as  possible.  If  the  potatoes  are  very  young, 
the  skins  may  be  scraped  off.  Let  the  potatoes  boil  fifteen  minutes ; 
then  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt  for  every  dozen- potatoes;  boil  until 
tender  and  remove  immediately  from  the  water  so  that  they  will 
not  become  soggy.  They  will  be  improved  by  being  kept  hot  for 
an  hour  or  more  provided  that  they  are  so  ventilated  that  they  dry 
rather  than  retain  moisture. 

Boiled  potatoes  may  be  served  dry  or  covered  with  cream  sauce. 

150  L-L 


VEGETABLES 


STEAMED  POTATOES 

Steamed  potatoes  are  prepared  as  for  boiling,  put  in  a  closed 
vessel  having  a  perforated  bottom  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
They  will  require  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes  to  cook. 

BAKED  POTATOES 

Wash  the  potatoes  perfectly  clean  and  let  them  drain;  put  them 
in  an  old  baking  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  soft.  Potatoes 
of  medium  size  will  take  about  forty  minutes.  Baked  potatoes 
should  be  served  as  soon  as  they  are  done,  but  if  they  must  stand 
for  any  time  the  skins  should  be  broken  so  that  the  moisture  may 
escape. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Pare  the  potatoes  and  throw  them  into  cold  water  until  needed. 
Dry  them  with  a  towel;  cut  into  small  pieces  lengthwise  of  the 
potato;  drop  them  into  hot  fat  and  remove  when  lightly  browned. 
It  is  better  to  fry  only  a  few  at  a  time,  letting  those  done  stand  in 
a  colander  in  the  oven  to  keep  hot.  When  all  are  done,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  serve  at  once. 

For  variety,  and  for  use  in  garnishing,  cut  the  potatoes  into 
balls,  using  the  vegetable  cutter  which  comes  for  this  purpose. 

STUFFED  POTATOES 

6  large  potatoes  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  Dash  of  pepper 

1A  CUP  niilk  1  egg 

Bake  the  potatoes  and  when  done  cut  off  one  end  of  each  and 
scoop  out  the  contents  into  a  bowl.  Mash  thoroughly;  add  the 
butter,  seasoning  and  milk.  Then  return  the  potato  to  the  shells; 
dip  the  open  end  of  each  in  beaten  egg  and  place  them  on  a  pan  in 
the  oven.  Brown  the  ends  and  serve. 

MASHED  POTATOES 

4  medium-sized  potatoes  V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  tablespoon  butter  4  tablespoons 


Boil  the  potatoes  and  drain  them  thoroughly;  mash  and  beat 
with  a  wire  beater  until  light;  add  the  butter,  salt  and  milk, 
heated.  Serve  at  once  if  possible.  If  obliged  to  keep  them  stand  • 

151 


VEGETABLES  P  ******  for » 

_  Family  of  Four 

ing  do  not  put  a  cover  on  the  saucepan  as  steam  makes  them  soggy. 
Stand  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  and  when  ready  to  serve  put  them, 
mound  fashion,  in  a  hot  dish  and  sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with 
pepper. 

CREAMED  POTATOES 

2  cups  boiled  potatoes  1  cup  cream  sauce 

Make  the  cream  sauce  thinner  than  usual  by  adding  a  little 
extra  milk.  Cut  the  potatoes  into  small  cubes  and  mix  them  thor- 
oughly with  the  same.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  potatoes 
are  thoroughly  hot;  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  if  desired,  and 
serve. 

NEW  POTATOES  IN   CREAM 

Scrape  and  boil  new  potatoes  until  tender;  cover  with  cream 
sauce  to  which  a  little  chopped  parsley  has  been  added,  and  serve. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  Grated  nutmeg 

l/z  tablespoon  chopped  onion  2  eggs 

y2  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  Bread  crumbs 

Mix  the  potatoes  thoroughly  with  the  butter,  onion,  parsley, 
salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Mold  them;  dip  in  the  beaten  eggs; 
roll  in  bread  crumbs;  drop  into  hot  fat  and  cook  until  a  golden 
brown. 

POTATO  BALLS 

Select  large  potatoes,  as  free  from  blemishes  as  possible;  cut 
into  balls  with  a  vegetable  cutter;  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender;  cover  with  melted  butter  and  chopped  parsley  and 
serve. 

POTATO  CAKES 

Take  cold  mashed  potatoes  or  cold  baked  or  boiled  potatoes  that 
have  been  mashed  and  seasoned;  roll  into  balls,  dusting  the  hands 
well  with  flour  first.  Flatten  into  cakes  and  saute  in  butter,  or 
place  on  a  buttered  tin  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of 
each  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  golden  brown. 

152 


'Planned  for  a  VEGETABLES 

Family  of  Four  __________ 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES 

3  boiled  potatoes  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  Dash  of  pepper 

1/2  small  onion  Vz  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Slice  the  onion  and  brown  it  slightly  in  the  butter;  add  the 
potatoes;  mix  well  and  stir  until  all  are  browned,  seasoning  thor- 
oughly. Just  before  serving  add  the  parsley. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES  No.  1 

1  pint  sliced  raw  potatoes  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  scalded  milk  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  tablespoon  butter  l/2  saltspoon  pepper 

Butter  a  baking  dish  and  in  the  bottom  put  a  layer  of  the  po- 
tatoes. Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  dot  with  small 
pieces  of  butter.  Repeat  until  the  materials  are  used;  pour  the 
scalded  milk  over  all  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty-five 
or  fifty  minutes. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES  No.  2 

2  cups  cold  potatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

2  cups  cream  sauce  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

Butter 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  cubes;  mix  well  with  the  cream  sauce, 
adding  more  seasoning  if  necessary;  pour  into  a  baking  dish;  cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter  and  bake  for  about 
half  an  hour. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 

2  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes  3  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

2  cups  cream  sauce  Salt  and  red  pepper 

Buttered  bread  crumbs 

Slice  the  potatoes  and  add  them  to  the  hot  cream  sauce.  Bring 
all  to  a  boil;  remove  and  add  the  cheese  and  seasoning.  Pour 
all  into  a  baking  dish;  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and  set 
in  the  oven  to  brown. 

BROWNED  POTATOES 

Either  sweet  or  white  potatoes  may  be  browned.  Boil  and  peel 
them,  cutting  them  in  halves  if  they  are  very  large.  Put  them  in 

153  L-L 


VEGETABLES  Planned  for  a 

_____ _ __ — _«_—»^». Family  of  Four 

a  baking  pan;  baste  with  savory  drippings  or  butter  and  season 
with  salt.  Cook  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown. 

The  potatoes  may  be  browned  in  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  if  the 
oven  is  not  hot.  The  oven,  however,  is  to  be  preferred. 

If  the  potatoes  are  to  be  served  with  a  roast  they  may  be  browned 
with  the  meat.  They  should,  however,  never  be  put  into  the  pan 
raw,  as  they  are  sure  to  turn  dark  and  ugly  if  not  boiled  first. 

POTATO  PUFF 

2  cups*  hoiled  potatoes  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  butter  i/2  Cup  scalded  inilk 

Salt  to  taste 

Use  left-over  mashed  potatoes  or  potatoes  freshly  boiled  and 
pressed  through  a  vegetable  press.  Melt  the  butter;  beat  it  into 
the  potatoes;  add  the  egg,  beaten  separately,  then  the  hot  milk 
and  seasoning.  Bake  in  one  dish  or  in  individual  dishes  until  deli- 
cately browned. 

HASHED   BROWN  POTATOES 

1  pint  chopped  cooked  ootatoes  Dash  of  pepper 

2  tablespoons  cream  i/2  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 
1/2  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  butter 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  smooth  frying  pan  and  when  hot  add  the 
other  ingredients,  well  mixed  together.  Pack  lightly  into  a  layer 
of  uniform  thickness  and  cook  slowly  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 
Fold  over  and  serve.  There  should  te  a  thick  brown  crust  on  the 
outside. 

CANDIED   SWEET  POTATOES 

Cut  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into  long  slices;  place  them  in  an 
earthen  dish;  butter  each  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  until 
the  sugar  and  butter  have  candied  and  the  potatoes  are  brown. 


FRIED   SWEET  POTATOES 

it 

er 

s] 

salt  and  serve. 


jrAuaas    ovYJc/xs/i    jruijfiiUJE/o 

Wash  and  cut  small  uncooked  sweet  potatoes  into  quarters;  dry 
them  and  lower  them  into  boiling  hot  fat.  Brown  thoroughly ; 
remove  with  a  skimmer;  drain  and  dry  on  paper;  si>ri*iW«  with 


1,54 


VEGETABLES 


VEGETABLE  HASH 

Hash  may  be  made  with  one  or  many  vegetables  and  with  or 
without  the  addition  of  meat  and  fish.  Potato  is  the  most  useful 
vegetable  for  hash,  because  it  combines  well  with  meat  or  other 
vegetables.  The  vegetables  must  be  chopped  fine,  well  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  parsley,  onion,  chives  or  green  pepper 
if  desired,  and  moistened  with  stock,  milk  or  water,  using  a  quar- 
ter of  a  cup  to  a  pint  of  hash.  Melt  a  half  tablespoon  of  butter  or 
savory  drippings  in  a  pan;  put  in  the  hash,  spreading  it  evenly  and 
dropping  small  pieces  of  butter  or  drippings  over  the  top."  Cover 
the  pan;  let  the  hash  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  for  half  an  hour; 
fold  over  like  an  omelet  and  serve.  If  properly  cooked  there  will 
be  a  rich  brown  crust  formed  on  the  outside  of  the  hash. 

BOILED  MACARONI 

Break  the  macaroni  into  small  pieces;  boil  for  half  an  hour; 
drain  and  blanch  in  cold  water.  Reheat  in  tomato  or  cream  sauce 
and  serve.  Grated  cheese  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  dish  if  de- 
sired. 

The  recipe  for  Baked  Macaroni  will  be  found  in  the  chapter  on 
"Meat  Substitutes." 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS 

4  cucumbers  Dash  of  grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  pecans  or  Brazil  nuts  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

6  tablespoons  mashed  potatoes  1  cup  white  sauce 

1  well-beaten  egg  1  teaspoon  capers 

1  teaspoon  salt  Dash  of  powdered  cloves 

2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley  1  well-beaten  egg 
1  saltspoon  white  pepper  Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  the  cucumbers  in  half  lengthwise;  remove  the  seeds  with 
a  spoon;  lay  the  cucumbers  in  vinegar  over  night;  then  wipe 
dry  and  fill  with  a  mixture  made  from  the  chopped  nuts,  potatoes. 
egg,  salt,  parsley,  pepper,  nutmeg  and  butter.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
baking  tin  until  tender.  Serve  hot  with  white  sauce,  to  which  has 
been  added  the  capers,  cloves,  egg  and  seasoning. 

For  additional  recipes  for  vegetables  see  chapter  on  "Meat 
Substitutes." 


155 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


REHEATING  VEGETABLES 

Left-over  potatoes,  turnips,  parsnips,  carrots,  and  similar 
vegetables  may  be  cut  into  cubes  and  reheated  in  cream  sauce. 
It  is  essential  to  have  the  sauce  freshly  made  and  very  hot  when 
the  vegetables  are  entered.  They  may  be  served  in  this  style,  or 
the  dish  may  be  sprinkled  with  buttered  bread-crumbs,  and 
browned  in  the  oven.  Or,  using  a  thick  cream  sauce  as  a  "binder," 
the  vegetables  may  be  made  into  croquettes.  Of  course,  if  so 
used,  they  must  be  mashed  first. 

Left-over  stewed  tomatoes  may  be  strained  and  used  as  stock 
for  tomato  sauce,  which  is  an  excellent  foundation  for  reheating 
cold  meats, 


156 


ENTREES 


Entries — small  made-dishes  that  are  served  between  courses' 

— Definition. 


158 


ENTREES 

WHILE  the  entree  has  its  place  on  the  menu  of  the  formal 
dinner,  it  appears  in  many  cases  to  excellent  advantage  as 
an  important  dish  for  the  small  luncheon.     With  a  little  extra 
care  and  elaboration  the  "made-dish"  may  serve  to  tempt  the 
most  indifferent  appetite. 

See  some  of  the  recipes  in  this  chapter;  others  in  the  chapter, 
"Left-Overs." 

FRITTER  BATTER 

1  cup  flour  l/2  CUP  nulk 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  eggs 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly;  add  the  milk,  then  the  oil, 
and  last  the  beaten  eggs. 

VEGETABLE  FRITTERS 

Cook  the  vegetables  thoroughly;  drain  them;  chop  fine  and 
add  to  the  batter.  Drop  in  boiling  hot  fat ;  drain  and  dry  on  paper. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS 

Wash  the  oysters  and  parboil  them;  drain  well  and  add  to  the 
batter.  Use  oyster  juice  instead  of  milk  in  making  the  batter. 
Fry  in  hot  fat;  drain  and  serve. 


APPLE  FRITTERS 

Choose  sour  apples;  pare,  core  and  cut  them  into  small  slices. 
Stir  into  fritter  batter  and  fry  in  boiling  hot  fat,  Drain  on  paper: 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve. 

159  I.-L 


T?TVTTT?t?T?Q  Planned  for  a 

JC/n  1  K±L ISO  Family  of  Four 


BANANA  FRITTERS 

3  bananas  J/4  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  Y§  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
ll/2  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

Mash  the  bananas  and  mix  the  flour  with  the  salt,  sugar  and 
baking  powder.  Combine  the  dry  ingredients  with  the  bananas, 
alternating  with  the  milk.  Add  lemon  juice  and  the  egg,  beaten 
light.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat  and  fry.  Drain  on  paper 
and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

BEEF  KROMESKIES 

ll/2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

li/2  tablespoons  flour  Dash  of  pepper 

1  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  parsley 

1  pint  cold  beef  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  flour;  then  the  milk  gradually,  stir- 
ring to  prevent  lumps.  Cook  until  it  thickens;  mix  in  the  chopped 
beef  and  seasonings  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cool  form  into 
small  cylinders-  dip  each  in  fritter  batter  and  fry  in  smoking  hot 
fat. 


ROMAN  GNOCCHI 


cup  butter  2  cups  milk 

4  cup  flour  2  egg  yolks 

4  cup  cornstarch  3/4  cup  grated  cheese 

Melt  the  butter  and  cook  the  cornstarch  and  flour  in  it  without 
browning.  Add  the  milk  and  cook  three  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  the  yolks  and  a  half  cup  of  cheese;  pour  into  a 
shallow  buttered  pan  and  cool;  cut  into  squares;  place  on  a  shal- 
low dish;  sprinkle  with  the  remaining  cheese  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

RISSOLES 

Roll  puff -paste  into  oblong  pieces  three  by  four  inches;  put 
a  spoonful  of  creamed  chicken,  sweetbreads  or  mushrooms  on  one 
side;  fold  over  and  press  the  edges  together,  moistening  slightly 
to  make  the  edges  stick.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  until 
a  delicate  brown. 

160  L-L 


Planned  for  a  T?T\TT'Dt?'l?Q 

Family  of  Four JSIN  1  K.C/.C/S 

RICE  TIMBALES 

Pack  boiled  rice  into  small  buttered  molds;  let  stand  in  hot 
water  for  fifteen  minutes  and  serve  as  a  garnish  or  as  an  entree 
with  some  sweet  sauce. 

TIMBALE   CASES 

%  cup  flour  l/2  cup  milk 

J/2  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

Sift  the  flour  and  salt;  add  the  milk  and  beaten  egg  gradually, 
beating  constantly  with  a  wire  beater;  add  the  oil  and  continue 
beating  until  the  batter  is  perfectly  smooth. 

Put  the  timbale  iron  in  a  kettle  of  hot  fat  for  about  twenty 
minutes.  Take  the  bowl  of  batter  in  the  left  hand  and  hold  it 
near  the  kettle  of  hot  fat;  with  the  right  hand  lift  the  iron  from 
the  fat;  wipe  it  on  soft  paper;  dip  it  into  the  batter,  coating  the 
iron  to  within  three  quarters  of  an  inch  from  the  top,  allow  the 
batter  to  dry  and  then  dip  it  in  the  hot  fat,  holding  the  iron  a 
little  sidewise  until  it  is  in  the  fat;  then  turn  perpendicularly  and 
cook  until  the  batter  is  a  delicate  brown.  Take  the  iron  out 
the  same  way  it  was  put  in,  being  very  careful  not  to  drop  the 
timbale  into  the  fat;  drain  the  grease  off  and  lay  timbale  on  paper 
to  drain.  Wipe  the  drops  of  grease  from  the  iron  with  a  soft 
paper  every  time  it  is  used.  Fill  the  cases  with  creamed  fish, 
oysters,  chicken  or  sweetbreads. 


TIMBALE   OF  MACARONI 

Boil  macaroni  as  usual  in  salted  water;  rinse  in  cold  water  and 
cut  into  pieces  a  third  of  an  inch  long.  Line  a  mold  with  these, 
spreading  the  bottom  and  sides  thickly  with  butter  first  and  setting 
the  open  ends  of  the  macaroni  against  the  butter.  Spread  over 
the  macaroni  a  forcemeat  suitable  to  whatever  is  to  constitute  the 
filling  of  the  timbale;  then  fill  up  the  mold  with  highly  seasoned 
fish,  game,  poultry  or  oysters.  Moisten  with  sauce;  cover  with 
more  forcemeat,  pinching  the  edges  well  together  so  that  the 
sauce  will  not  break  through  in  cooling.  Set  the  mold  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water;  cover  with  buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  half  an  hour. 

161  L-L 


ENTREES  _  Permed  for  a 
Family  of  Four 

CHICKEN   A  LA  KING 

1  cup  chicken,  cubed  i/2  cup  chicken  broth 

2  mushrooms  1/2  cup  cream 

V4  green  pepper  Salt  and  paprika  to  taste 

1  tablespoon  butter  i/2  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  egg  yolk 

Cook  mushrooms  and  pepper  in  -J  tablespoonful  butter;  melt 
rest  of  butter;  remove  from  heat;  add  flour  and  stir  until  smooth: 
add  stock  and  cream  and  return  to  fire;  when  boiling  add  other 
ingredients  with  egg  yolk  last.  Serve  on  toast  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  CRANE 

1  cup  cold  chicken  1  cup  boiled  mushrooms 

1  cup  cream  sauce 

Cut  the  chicken  into  small  cubes;  add  the  mushrooms,  quar- 
tered; stir  all  into  the  cream  sauce;  heat  thoroughly  and  serve 
hi  patty  shells  or  patty  cups. 


CHICKEN  PATTIES 

2  cups  cold  chicken  Grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  cream  sauce 

Cut  the  chicken  into  small  cubes;  add  a  little  grated  nutmeg; 
stir  into  the  cream  sauce;  heat  thoroughly  and  serve  in  patty 
shells  or  patty  cups. 

MEAT  PATTIES 

Meat  patties  of  various  kinds  may  be  made  according  to  the 
recipe  for  chicken  patties. 


HAM   PATTIES 

1  cup  cold  chopped  ham  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

*/4  cup  fine,  bread  crumbs  i/£  teaspoon  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  milk 

Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly  and  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom 
of  buttered  patty  cups.  Break  an  egg  over  the  top  of  each;  dust 
with  pepper  and  salt;  cover  with  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 
and  bake  about  eight  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

162  v-x, 


ENTREES 

Veal  Croquettes  Rissoles  Swedish  Timbales 


I'laiineu  f<>.-  a 
Family  of  Four 


PATTY  SHELLS 

Follow  the  directions  for  making  puff-paste.  One  half  pound 
of  flour  will  make  about  six  patty  shells. 

Roll  the  paste  to  a  thickness  of  one  fourth  inch;  stamp  out 
with  a  large  round  cutter  and  cut  the  centers  from  half  of  the 
rounds.  Lay  the  rings  thus  made  on  the  whole  rounds,  pressing 
them  down  so  that  they  will  stick  together.  In  cold  weather 
it  may  be  necessary  to  wet  the  top  of  the  large  rounds  near  the 
edge  to  make  sure  that  the  rings  will  not  slip.  If  deeper  patty 
shells  are  wished  two  or  three  rings  may  be  placed  on  top  of  the 
rounds  instead  of  one. 

Have  the  oven  as  hot  as  for  baking  white  bread.  The  shells 
should  rise  in  ten  minutes  and  then  take  twenty  minutes  longer 
to  bake  through  and  brown.  There  will  usually  be  a  little  soft 
dough  left  in  the  center.  This  should  be  carefully  removed 
with  a  fork. 

VOL-AU-VENT 

Roll  puff-paste  one  half  inch  thick  and  from  it  cut  out  two  large 
ovals,  using  a  sharp  knife  first  dipped  in  flour.  Place  it  on  a  shal- 
low baking  tin;  cut  a  smaller  oval  from  the  second  piece  and  lay 
the  ring  on  the  first,  moistening  slightly  so  that  the  two  will  stick 
together  when  baked.  Roll  out  the  piece  cut  from  the  second 
oval  until  it  is  the  size  of  the  others  and  bake  in  a  separate  pan  as 
a  cover  for  the  vol-au-vent,  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  covering  with 
paper  after  the  first  fifteen  minutes.  It  will  require  three  quarters 
of  an  hour  or  longer;  and  unless  baked  thoroughly  the  crust  will 
fall  in  cooling.  When  ready  to  use,  reheat  and  fill  with  creamed 
oysters  or  game;  or  for  dessert  fill  with  sugared  fruit  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

ll/2  cups  cold  chicken  l/2  teaspoon  onion  juice 

1  tablespoon  butter  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  flour  V4  teaspoon  pepper 

l/2  cup  milk  or  stock  V2  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Dash  of  nutmeg  1  egg 

Bread  crumbs  and  beaten  egg 

Cook  the  flour  in  the  butter;  add  the  milk  gradually;  then  the 
seasonings  and  chicken.  Remove  from  the  fire;  add  the  egg,  well 
beaten;  mix  and  cool.  Shape  in  small  cones;  dip  in  another 

163 


T?TVrTT>t?l?C!  Planned  for  a 

Jill  1  XVCsJC/O  Family  of  Four 

beaten  egg;  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  put  in  a  wire  frying-basket  and 
lower  into  boiling  hot  fat.  Test  the  fat  by  lowsring  a  piece  of 
stale  bread  into  it;  if  the  bread  browns  in  thirty  seconds  the 
fat  is  sufficiently  hot.  Fry  the  croquettes  a  light  brown;  drain 
over  the  fat;  lay  on  brown  paper  in  a  warm  place  for  a  few  minutes 
and  serve. 

MEAT  CROQUETTES 

Veal,  mutton,  lamb,  beef  and  turkey  croquettes  may  be  prepared 
in  the  same  way  as  chicken  croquettes.  The  secrets  of  success 
are  to  have  the  croquettes  well  coated  with  egg  and  crumbs  and 
the  fat  sufficiently  hot.  Olive  oil,  cottolene,  suetine,  lard,  or  a 
mixture  of  any  of  these  with  drippings  will  serve  the  purpose; 
but  olive  oil  is  best. 

RICE   CROQUETTES 

1  cup  boiled  rice  1  teaspoon  melted  butter 

1  egg  Salt  to  taste 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Cream 

Beat  the  egg  light;  mix  with  other  ingredients,  using  enough 
cream  to  make  the  rice  malleable.  Make  into  croquettes;  dip 
in  egg  and  fine  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  and  stand  for  several 
hours  in  a  cold  place.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  very  hot. 

SALMI   OF   GAME 

1  cup  brown  sauce  1  teaspoon  catsup 

6  mushrooms  1A  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

1  cup  cooked  duck  1A  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Salt  and  pepper 

Stir  the  game  and  mushrooms  into  the  orown  sauce  and  cook 
until  thoroughly  heated.  When  ready  to  serve  add  catsup,  onion 
and  lemon  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

CURRIED   RABBIT 

.  cup  chopped  cold  rabbit  j  l/2  teaspoon  onion  juice 

1  cup  brown  sauce  1  teaspoon  curry  powder 

Add  the  rabbit  meat  to  the  brown  sauce;  cook  until  thoroughly 
heated;  season  and  serve  in  a  border  of  rice. 

-    •  164  L-L 


SALADS 


To  make  a  really  good  salad — the  poem-in-a-picture  kind — takes 
the  eye  of  an  artist  in  selection,  the  niggardliness  of  a  miser  with 
vinegar,  the  wisdom  of  a  counselor  with  salt,  and  the  extravagance 
of  a  spendthrift  with  oil. 

— Old  Recipe. 


166 


SALADS 

NO  one  knows  how  many  centuries  salads  have  been  a  favorite 
form  of  food;  probably  ever  since  the  ancients  discovered 
that  olives  would  yield  their  rich,  nutritious  oil.  And  rightly  so, 
for  the  green,  uncooked  vegetable  furnishes  the  mineral  salts,  the 
valuable  vitamins,  and  the  bulk  so  much  needed;  the  oil  supplies 
fuel-and-energy  food;  and  the  acid  of  the  vinegar,  or  of  the  deli- 
cately perfumed  lemon,  aids  digestion.  More  and  more  the  Ameri- 
can people  are  learning  that  salads  should  appear  on  the  table 
every  day  in  the  year.  Perhaps  the  reason  that  they  are  not  as 
generally  served  as  they  deserve  to  be  is  due  to  the  too  common 
use  of  inferior  oils.  While  there  is  much  nutriment  in  peanut  oil 
and  in  cotton-seed  oil,  neither  can  be  compared  with  pure  olive 
oil  in  flavor  and  digestibility. 

In  making  salads,  everything  should  be  crisp  and  cold  both  at 
the  time  of  making  and  of  serving.  Greens  should  always  be 
washed  in  cold  water,  and  dried  by  vigorous  swinging  in  a  wire 
basket,  or  by  pressing  lightly  between  a  clean  folded  towel.  The 
salad  should  be  kept  on  ice  as  long  as  possible,  and  the  dressing 
should  not  be  added  until  the  moment  of  serving.  Mayonnaise 
dressing  is  perhaps  more  generally  used  with  meats  than  any  other. 
Lettuce  and  other  leaf  salads  are  usually  considered  better  with 
French  dressing. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

Yolk  of  1  egg  V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  oil  1/4  teaspoon  paprika 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 

Beat  the  egg  yolk  and  add  all  the  seasonings  including  the 
vinegar.  Add  the  oil,  a  teaspoon  at  a  time,  and  beat  after  each 
addition,  using  either  a  Dover  egg-beater  or  a  wire  whip.  If  the 
dressing  should  curdle  add  a  little  more  vinegar  or  lemon  juice; 

167  t-i. 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


or  another  egg  yolk  may  be  beaten  in  a  clean  bowl  and  then  the 
curdled  mixture  beaten  into  it,  a  teaspoon  at  a  time.  The  egg 
white  may  be  beaten  and  added  to  thin  the  dressing  instead  of 
cream. 

Salads  with  mayonnaise  dressing  are  especially  adapted  for 
meals  in  which  there  is  no  regular  meat  course.  Salad  with 
French  dressing  is  better  with  a  meal  having  a  meat  course  and 
a  rich  dessert. 

COLORED  MAYONNAISE 

To  color  Mayonnaise  green  add  one  tablespoon  of  ravigote  herbs 
to  the  finished  dressing;  or  chop  parsley  leaves  very  fine;  pound 
them  in  a  small  quantity  of  lemon  juice;  strain  and  add  the  juice 
to  the  dressing. 

To  color  Mayonnaise  red  rub  one  scant  tablespoon  of  lobster 
coral  through  a  fine  sieve  and  add  it  to  the  dressing. 

WHITE  MAYONNAISE 

To  make  white  Mayonnaise  follow  the  ordinary  directions, 
using  lemon  juice  instead  of  vinegar,  omitting  the  paprika  and 
adding,  when  finished,  a  half  cup  of  whipped  cream  or  half  an  egg 
white  beaten  very  stiff. 

COOKED  DRESSING  (MOCK  MAYONNAISE) 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  egg 

2  teaspoons  mustard  1  tablespoon  vinegar 
2  teaspoons  sugar  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  the  milk  and  butter;  add  the  egg  into  which  the  mustard 
and  sugar  and  flour  have  been  well  beaten.  Stir  over  the  fire 
until  the  mixture  thickens;  add  the  vinegar;  take  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  salt.  This  may  be  used  in  place  of  Mayonnaise  dress- 
ing by  those  who  do  not  care  for  oil. 

CREAM   DRESSING 

1  cup  cream  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

Dash  of  red  pepper 

Mix  the  sugar,  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  thoroughly  together; 
then  add  the  cream  gradually. 

168  L-L. 


Planned  fo»  « 
Family  of  Four 


FRENCH  DRESSING 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  1  teaspoon  salt 

6  tablespoons  olive  oil  V2  teaspoon  paprika 

Put  the  salt  and  paprika  in  a  bowl;  add  a  little  oil  and  beat  well; 
then  gradually  add  the  remainder  of  the  oil,  stirring  constantly. 
Last  of  all  stir  in  the  vinegar,  drop  by  drop. 

SALAD  DRESSING  IN  LARGE  QUANTITY 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  mustard 
3  tablespoons  flour                                 V2  cup  vinegar 

ll/2  cups  cold  water  3  egg  yolks 

Red  and  black  pepper  1  cup  olive  oil 

Salt 

Beat  the  three  whole  eggs;  add  the  mustard  and  flour  well  mixed 
with  the  water  and  a  little  red  and  black  pepper.  Put  the  vinegar 
on  to  boil  and  while  boiling  add  the  egg  and  mustard  mixture, 
stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens.  When  cold  add  a  Mayonnaise 
made  of  the  three  egg  yolks  and  olive  oil.  Add  salt  after  all  is 
finished. 

This  makes  about  a  quart  and  is  useful  for  chicken  salad  or  for 
any  purpose  where  a  large  quantity  of  dressing  is  needed.  Tn 
winter  it  will  keep  a  week  or  more. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

1  -cup  cold  cooked  chicken  Mayonnaise  dressing 

1  cup  chopped  celery  Lettuce 

Stuffed  olives 

Mix  the  chicken  and  celery  lightly  with  Mayonnaise  dress- 
ing; pour  into  a  bowl  lined  with  lettuce  leaves;  throw  a  little 
more  dressing  over  the  top  and  garnish  with  stuffed  olives. 

TOMATO   SURPRISES 

3/4  cup  cold  chopped  meat  %  saltspoon  salt 

*/2  tablespoon  chopped  onion  4  tablespoons  Mayonnaise 

l/2  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce  4  tomatoes 
Lettuce 

Season  the  meat  with  onion:  sauce  and  salt,  and  mix  with  the 
dressing.  Have  the  tomatoes  very  cold;  cut  a  slice  from  the 
stem  end  and  scoop  out  the  seeded  portion.  Fill  each  with  the 
salad  mixture  and  serve  on  a  leaf  of  crisp  lettuce. 

169  L-L 


jPianned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


SARDINE  SALAD 

1  small  box  sardines  3  hard-boiled  eggs 

Juice  of  %  lemon  Mayonnaise  dressing 

Prepare  the  sardines,  free  from  oil,  bones  and  skin;  season  with 
lemon  juice;  cut  into  small  pieces  and  mix  with  the  eggs,  finely 
chopped.  Arrange  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing. 

SHRIMP  SALAD 

1  can  shrimps  1  head  lettuce 

1  stalk  celery  l/2  cup  Mayonnaise  dressing 

Olives  and  radishes 

Remove  the  shrimps  from  the  can;  cover  with  cold  water  and 
let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Dram;  dry  between  towels,  and  break 
into  small  pieces.  Cut  the  celery  into  half -inch  pieces;  mix 
with  the  shrimps  and  the  Mayonnaise  dressing,  and  arrange  on 
lettuce  leaves,  garnishing  with  olives  or  radishes. 

SALMON  SALAD 

1  can  salmon  Mayonnaise  dressing 

1  head  lettuce  Ripe  olives 

Remove  the  salmon  from  the  can;  wash  in  a  colander  under 
running  water  and  drain.  On  each  salad  plate  make  a  nest  of  lettuce 
leaves  and  in  it  bury  a  portion  of  the  salmon,  broken  into  small 
pieces  and  covered  with  Mayonnaise.  Garnish  with  ripe  olives. 

LOBSTER  SALAD 

1  boiled  lobster  Mayonnaise  dressing 

1  head  lettuce  Lobster  coral 

Cut  boiled  lobster  into  one-inch  pieces  and  keep  on  ice  until 
ready  to  serve.  Arrange  fresh  lettuce  in  a  bowl;  pour  the  lobster 
mixed  with  Mayonnaise  in  the  center;  smooth  the  top;  cover 
well  with  dressing  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  lobster  coral. 

LETTUCE  SALAD 

Throw  away  the  outer  leaves  of  the  head  of  lettuce;  wash  the 
rest  carefully  in  running  water  and  dry  them  in  a  clean  towel. 
Break  or  tear  the  leaves  into  convenient  pieces  and  serve  with 
Mayonnaise,  cream  or  French  dressing. 

170  ^-L 


Planned  for  a  O  A  T  A  TkQ 

Family  of  Four       bALADb 

COMBINATION  SALAD 

Scald  tomatoes;  remove  the  skin  and  place  them  on  ice.  Wash 
and  drain  lettuce;  arrange  in  a  salad  bowl;  slice  the  tomatoes 
over  it  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

NOVEL  TOMATO   SALAD 

1  cup  cherry  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

1  cup  small  yellow  tomatoes          French  dressing 
1  clove  garlic  Lettuce 

Scald  the  tomatoes;  peel  carefully  and  set  on  the  ice  to  cool.  At 
serving  time  rub  the  salad  bowl  with  garlic  and  line  with  heart 
leaves  of  lettuce.  Place  the  yellow  tomatoes  in  the  center  and  the 
red  ones  around  them.  Cover  with  French  dressing  and  sprinkle 
with  the  parsley. 

TOMATO  JELLY 

f1 '  box  gelatine  1  bay  leaf 

cup  cold  water  */2  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

ice  from  1  pint  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

ft  teaspoon  onion  juice  Lettuce 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Mayonnaise  dressing 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  water  for  one  hour.  Bring  to  a  boil 
the  liquor  drained  from  a  pint  can  of  tomatoes  and  add  to  it  the 
seasoning  and  herbs.  Let  this  simmer  for  twenty  minutes;  add 
the  gelatine;  stir  until  dissolved  and  strain  tb rough  a  cloth  into 
molds — preferably  individual  ones.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing  or  use  as  a  garnish  for  other  salads. 

DEVILED  EGGS 

6  eggs  1  tablespoon  olive  oil  or  butter 

Yz  teaspoon  mustard  Salt  and  red  pepper 

A  little  vinegar  if  desired 

Boil  the  eggs  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  throw  them  into  cold 
water  to  prevent  the  whites  from  darkening.  Remove  the  shells; 
cut  in  halves  lengthwise;  take  out  the  yolks  carefully  and  mash 
them  with  the  oil  or  butter  and  seasoning.  If  desired,  a  tablespoon 
of  minced  ham  or  tongue  or  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  onion 
may  be  added.  Fill  the  cavity  of  each  half  with  the  paste  and  set 
in  a  cool  place  until  needed.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  or  on  a 
platter  garnished  with  parsley  or  watercress. 

171  I-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


PEPPER  AND   CREAM   CHEESE   SALAD 

1  large  green  pepper  2  tablespoons  chopped  walnuts 

1  'cream  cheese  Mayonnaise  dressing 

Lettuce 

Select  a  large  pepper  that  is  sweet;  cut  off  the  stem  end;  remove 
the  seeds  and  turn  it  upside  down  to  drain.  Mash  the  cream 
cheese;  mix  with  the  walnuts  and  press  into  the  pepper,  being 
careful  to  fill  all  the  crevices.  Set  away  on  the  ice  for  several 
hours;  when  ready  to  serve  cut  into  thin  slices  and  serve  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves  with  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

NASTURTIUM   SALAD 

1  head  lettuce"  French  dressing 

,  1  tablespoon  nasturtium  seeds  Nasturtium  blossoms 

Wash  the  lettuce  and  place  it  in  a  bowl;  scatter  the  seeds  over 
the  top;  cover  with  French  dressing  and  garnish  with  nasturtium 
blossoms. 

EGG   SALAD 

6  hard-boiled  eggs  1  head  lettuce 

Mayonnaise  dressing 

Cut  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  rings  and  arrange  them  on  the 
lettuce  leaves;  sift  over  them  the  yolks,  using  a  fine  wire  sieve. 
Serre  with  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

POTATO   SALAD   No.  1 

4  boiled  potatoes  French  dressing 

1  chopped  onion  Lettuce 

1  hard-boiled  egg 

To  make  the  best  salad  do  not  use  left-over  potatoes,  but  boil 
them  freshly,  removing  them  from  the  water  the  moment  they  are 
tender.  Slice  carefully;  mix  with  the  onion  and  French  dressing 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  garnished  with  slices  of  hard-boiled 

egg. 

POTATO   SALAD   No.  2 

4  boiled  potatoes  Mayonnaise  dressing 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  Lettuce 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Boil  the  potatoes,  removing  them  from  the  water  as  soon  as  they 
are  tender;  slice  and  mix  with  the  eggs,  finely  chopped,  and  the 

172  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


Mayonnaise.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  sprinkle  parsley  over 
the  top. 

COLD   SLAW 

Select  a  small,  compact  cabbage;  strip  off  the  outside  leaves 
and  cut  the  head  in  quarters.  With  a  sharp  knife  slice  very  thin; 
soak  in  cold  water  until  crisp;  drain  and  dry  between  cltan  towels. 
Mix  with  hot  dressing  and  serve  when  cold. 

COLD-SLAW  DRESSING 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  cup  vinegar  J/2  tablespoon  butter 

l/4  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly;  add  the  other  ingredients  and  cook 
all  over  boiling  water  until  the  mixture  thickens. 

BEET  SALADS 

1.  Cut  cold  cooked  beets  into  half  -inch  dice;  mix  with  shredded 
lettuce  leaves  or  watercress,  and  serve  on  whole  lettuce  leaves, 
covered  with  French  dressing. 

2.  Arrange  alternate  layers  of  cold  cooked  beets  and  hard-boiled 
eggs  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves,  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  a  little 
finely-chopped  onion.     Serve  with  French  dressing. 

3.  Arrange  alternate  layers  of  cold  cooked  beets  and  cabbage, 
finely  chopped  and  well  mixed  with  Mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad 
dressing.     Serve  on  lettuce. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD 

2  dozen  cucumbers  1  gill  olive  oil 

6  small  onions  1  tablespoon  celery  seed 

6  tablespoons  salt  1  quart  vinegar 

Cucumber  salad  should  be  made  in  large  quantities,  as  it  will 
keep  indefinitely  and  is  good  to  serve  in  emergencies.  Peel  and 
slice  thin  the  cucumbers  and  onions;  spread  in  layers;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  let  stand  for  several  hours.  Then  drain.  Mix  the 
oil  and  celery  seed;  add  the  vinegar,  drop  by  drop,  and  pour  over 
the  cucumbers  and  onions.  Mix  well;  put  into  sterilized  pint 
jars;  seal  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

173  in, 


Planned  for  ft 
Family  of  Fouy 


WINTER  SALAD 

1  small  head  lettuce  2  juicy  apples 

1  lemon  V2  cup  chopped  celery 

Mayonnaise  dressing 

Pare  the  apples  and  lemon  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices.  Mix 
thoroughly  with  the  celery  and  cover  with  Mayonnaise  or  French 
dressing.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

SALMAGUNDI  SALAD 

3  boiled  white  potatoes  1  apple 

V2  cucumber  y4  teaspoon  celery  salt 

l/2  cup  cooked  peas  1  hard-boiled  egg 

Mayonnaise  dressing 

Slice  the  potatoes;  chop  the  cucumber,  apple  and  egg;  then  mix 
all  the  ingredients  together,  pouring  over  them  Mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 


WATER-LILY  SALAD 

1  head  lettuce  6  hard-boiled  eggs 

Mayonnaise  dressing 

Line  a  circular  dish  with  the  lettuce.  Cut  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  in  pieces  lengthwise,  like  the  petals  of  a  water-lily.  Arrange 
the  pieces  in  circular  form  on  the  lettuce,  and  in  the  center  pour 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  mixed  with  Mayonnaise.  Or  lay  a  large 
green  leaf  on  each  individual  plate  and  make  a  small  lily  with 
each  egg. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

1  small  cauliflower  French  dressing 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  Lettuce 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Wash  the  cauliflower  carefully;  tie  in  a  cloth  and  cook  in  boiling, 
salted  water  until  thoroughly  tender.  When  done  remove  the 
cloth;  pour  the  lemon  juice  over  the  cauliflower  and  set  it  on  the 
ice  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve  separate  the  flowerets ;  lay  them 
on  lettuce  leaves;  cover  with  French  dressing  and  sprinkle  parsley 
over  the  top. 

174  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


NORMANDY  SALAD 

1  small  can  French  peas  1A  pound  pecans 

l/2  teaspoon  sugar  %  cup  Mayonnaise  dressing 

Salt  and  pepper  1  small  head  lettuce 

Cook  the  peas  slowly  in  their  own  liquor,  seasoning  them  with 
salt,  pepper  and  sugar.  When  the  peas  have  absorbed  all  the 
liquor,  set  them  aside  to  cool;  mix  with  the  chopped  pecans  and 
Mayonnaise  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

MARINE  SALAD 

4  cucumbers  1  onion 

2  green  peppers  French  dressing 

Scoop  out  the  inside  of  the  unpeeled  cucumbers,  which  will 
then  have  the  appearance  of  small  green  boats.  Chop  the  pulp 
thus  removed  with  the  peppers  and  onion  and  mix  well  with  French 
dressing.  Fill  the  boats  and  in  the  bow  of  each  erect  a  white  sail 
cut  from  paper  and  fastened  to  a  long  toothpick. 

WATERMELON  SALAD 

2  cups  watermelon  %  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Juice  of  1  orange 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  Lettuce 

Line  a  salad  bowl  with  lettuce  leaves  and  in  it  place  the  water- 
melon cut  into  small  cubes.  Mix  the  sugar,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg, 
and  sprinkle  over  the  melon;  then  pour  the  orange  juice  over  all. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

2  bananas  Juice  of  l/2  lemon 
2  oranges  Lettuce 

French  dressing 

Slice  the  bananas  and  oranges  and  pour  the  lemon  juice  over  all. 
jServe  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. 

FRUIT  AND  NUT  SALAD 

2  bananas  Juice  of  l/2  lemon 

2  oranges  Lettuce 

y2  cup  English  walnuts  French  dressing 

Slice  the  bananas  and  oranges  and  mix  them  with  the  nuts  and 
lemon  juice.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. 

175  L-I. 


SALADS  Planned  for  a 


Family  of  Four 


WALNUT   SALAD 

1  cup  walnut  meats  Lettuce 

1  cup  chopped  celery  Mayonnaise  dressing 

Procure  the  best  grade  of  walnuts  and  remove  the  meat 
from  the  shells  in  perfect  halves.  Mix  walnuts  and  celery  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Apples  cored  and  cut  into  cubes  may  be  substituted  for  the 
celery,  or  may  be  added  to  both  nuts  and  celery  if  desired. 

PEANUT   SALAD 

1  cup  shelled  peanuts  2  cups  chopped  celery 

Olive  oil  1  dozen  ripe  olives 

Lettuce 

Soak  the  peanuts  in  olive  oil;  drain  and  mix  with  the  celery  and 
olives,  pitted  and  minced.  Serve  on  lettuce,  adding  seasoning  or 
dressing  as  desired. 

BANANA   SALAD 

Peel  the  bananas  and  scrape  them  carefully  to  remove  all  stringy 
matter.  Roll  each  in  grated  nuts  and  lay  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Serve 
with  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

FRUIT  PYRAMIDS 

On  each  salad  plate  lay  a  leaf  of  fresh  lettuce,  then  a  slice  of 
canned  pineapple,  then  whole  slices  of  pared  apple,  orange,  peach, 
plum  or  any  other  fruit  that  is  in  season.  On  the  top  place  a 
maraschino  cherry,  and  pour  over  all  a  dressing  made  of  equal 
parts  of  lemon  juice  and  olive  oil. 

OCTOBER  SALAD 

4  red  apples  l/2  cup  canned  cherries 

1  grape-fruit  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  4  autumn  leaves 

Select  hard  red  apples;  wash  and  dry  them;  cut  a  slice  from  the 
top  of  each  and  remove  the  hearts.  After  taking  the  cores  from 
the  hearts  chop  them  together  with  the  grape-fruit  and  cherries; 
mix  with  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice  and  return  to  the  apple  cases. 
Place  each  apple  on  a  brilliant  autumn  leaf. 

176  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


GRAPE-FRUIT   SALAD 

Cut  the  grape-fruit  in  halves  and  remove  the  pulp,  being  careful 
to  get  none  of  the  tough  white  skin.  Mix  with  bananas  and  oranges 
and  stir  in  white  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Remove  all  skin  from 
the  inside  of  the  grapefruit  and  fill  with  the  mixture,  heaping 
it  high  and  ornamenting  with  maraschino  cherries.  Lay  each 
half  in  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves  and  serve. 


GRAPE-FRUIT  AND   PINEAPPLE   SALAD 

Cut  the  grape-fruit  in  half  and  remove  the  pulp  with  a  spoon, 
being  careful  to  get  none  of  the  tough  white  skin.  Mix  with  fresh 
or  canned  pineapple  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  covered 
with  white  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

TULIP   SALAD 

4  ripe  tomatoes  Mayonnaise  dressing 

12  chopped  pecans  Lettuce 

1  quart  best  cider  vinegar  1  tablespoon  peppercorns 

Scald  the  tomatoes;  remove  the  skins  and  chill  thoroughly. 
Then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  from  blossom-end  to  stem-end  into 
points  and  press  open,  leaving  a  round  bulb  of  seeds  in  the  center. 
Mix  a  little  Mayonnaise  with  the  pecans  and  place  a  spoonful 
on  the  top  of  each  bulb.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

BANANA  DAINTY 

Cut  the  bananas  in  half  crosswise  and  arrange  them  on  a  plate, 
radiating  from  the  center.  Sprinkle  with  grated  nuts  or  nutmeg 
and  heap  white  Mayonnaise  in  the  center.  Garnish  with  maras- 
chino cherries. 

NUT   AND    CHEESE   RELISH 

1  package  cream  cheese  1  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

2  tablespoons  whipped  cream  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Salt  and  red  pepper 

Mix  the  cheese  with  the  cream,  nuts,  parsley  and  seasonings. 
Roll  into  balls  and  serve  cold,  garnished  with  parsley  and  chopped 
nuts.  This  makes  a  pleasant  accompaniment  to  a  plain  lettuce 
or  lettuce  and  tomato  salad,  served  on  the  same  plate. 

177  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


CONVENIENT   VINEGARS  FOR  VARYING  SALADS 

Instead  of  plain  cider  vinegar  in  making  salads,  fancy  vinegars, 
which  will  give  unusual  flavor  and  variety,  may  be  made  at 
trifling  cost  and  kept  on  hand. 

CELERY  VINEGAR 

1  quart  best  cider  vinegar  1  tablespoon  peppercorns 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  small  handful  crushed  celery  leaves 

Heat  one-half  the  vinegar  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  the  celery 
leaves,  sugar,  and  seasonings.  Stir  well.  Boil  three  minutes. 
When  cool,  add  the  remaining  vinegar.  Let  stand  in  a  jug  or 
bottle  two  or  three  weeks,  shaking  occasionally.  Strain  and  bottle. 
Excellent  in  apple,  or  "Winter"  salads. 

TARRAGON  VINEGAR 

1  quart  best  cider  vinegar 
1  small  handful  fresh  tarragon 

Pick  the  tarragon  leaves  from  the  stems.  Put  them  in  a  wire 
strainer.  Set  the  strainer  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes.  Lift 
strainer,  drain  and  chop  beans,  and  add  them  to  the  vinegar. 
Let  stand  ten  days  or  longer,  shaking  frequently.  Strain  and 
bottle  for  use. 

MINT  VINEGAR 

1  quart  best  cider  vinegar 
1  large  handful  mint  leaves 

Heat  one  pint  vinegar  to  the  simmering  point.  WTash  and  chop 
the  mint  leaves.  Add  to  the  hot  vinegar.  Cover,  and  steep  in  a 
warm  place  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  the  remaining  vinegar. 
Strain  and  bottle. 


178 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 


The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating. 

— Don  Quixote. 


180 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 

A  LITTLE  girl  once  defined  desserts  as  "What  you  eat  after 
you  are  through";  which  is  an  excellent  description  of  the 
heavy  desserts  often  unwisely  served  after  a  meal  furnishing  all 
the  nutriment  needed.  Desserts  of  milk  and  eggs,  for  instance, 
should  not  follow  such  meals;  but,  instead,  some  light  dainty 
like  lemon  jelly.  Mince  pie  or  plum  pudding  should  not  "top  off" 
a  turkey  dinner;  better  a  simple  salad  and  bonbons.  When  de- 
pended upon  for  their  food  value,  however,  custards  and  milk 
puddings  are  especially  desirable  for  children,  and  for  adults  to 
whom  eggs  and  milk  are  not  acceptable  in  other  forms. 

RICE  PUDDING 

2  quarts  milk  %  cup  rice 

y2  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  sugar 

Grated  nutmeg  or  cinnamon 

Wash  the  rice;  mix  with  half  the  milk  and  the  salt  and  sugar 
and  pour  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish.  Bake  for  several  hours  in  a 
slow  oven,  stirring  frequently  and  adding  the  rest  of  the  milk. 
When  the  last  milk  is  added,  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top  and  let 
the  pudding  brown. 

A  cup  of  seeded  or  seedless  raisins  may  be  baked  in  the  pudding 
if  desired. 

BOILED  CUSTARD 

2  cups  hot  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  2  eggs  or  yolks  of  3  eggs 

l/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  the  milk  on  to  heat  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggs  thor- 
oughly with  the  sugar;  into  them  pour  the  hot  milk,  stirring  to 
prevent  lumps.  Return  all  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
the  custard  coats  the  spoon,  but  no  longer.  If  the  mixture  should 
curdle,  set  the  boiler  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  beat  with  a  wire 

13  181  L-L 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 


egg-beater  until  smooth.  When  the  steam  passes  off  add  the 
vanilla  or  other  flavoring. 

In  the  winter,  when  eggs  are  expensive,  the  custard  may  be  made 
with  one  egg  and  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  milk. 

If  desired,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  may  be  beaten  separately  and 
added  to  the  custard  after  it  is  cold  or  beaten  with  sugar  into  a 
meringue. 

RICE  MERINGUE  No.  1 

34  cup  rice  Yolks  of  4  eggs 

V4  pound  butter  Little  grated  lemon  rind 

l/2  cup  powdered  sugar  Whites  of  4  eggs 

1  quart  milk  4  tablespoons  granulated  sugar 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

Boil  the  rice  in  water;  while  hot  add  the  butter;  when  cool  add 
the  sugar,  milk,  beaten  yolks  and  lemon.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of 
eggs  and  granulated  sugar,  flavored  with  lemon  juice.  Brown  in  a 
hot  oven.  .  _ 

RICE  MERINGUE  No.  2 

2  tablespoons  rice  Pinch  of  salt 

1  quart  milk  Lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Whites  of  2  eggs 

4  tablespoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Cook  the  rice  in  a  little  water;  drain  and  add  the  yolks,  sugar, 
salt  and  flavoring.  Cover  with  meringue  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


CORNSTARCH  PUDDING 

3  cups  scalded  milk  V3  cup  sugar 

6  level  tablespoons  cornstarch  %  teaspoon  salt 

y4  cup  cold  milk  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  cornstarch  with  the  cold  milk;  stir  the  scalded  milk 
slowly  into  this  mixture  and  stir  over  hot  water  until  the  cornstarch 
thickens.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly;  add  sugar  and  salt;  pour  over 
them  the  cornstarch  mixture  and  cook  one  minute  longer.  Serve 
cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 

182  L-L 


PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS 


CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  2  tablespoons  grated  chocolate 
1  pint  milk  V2  cup  sugar 

Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  milk  or  water  and  add  it 
to  the  pint  of  milk  which  has  just  been  brought  to  a  boil.  Add 
the  sugar  and  chocolate;  boil  until  the  mixture  thickens;  pour 
into  wet  molds  and  set  aside  to  cool.  At  serving  time  turn  from 
molds  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  boiled  custard  sauce. 

COCOANUT  CORNSTARCH 

1  cup  shredded  cocoanut  1  pint  milk 

3  tablespoons  sugar  "Whites  of  3  eggs 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Custard  sauce 

Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch  in  a  double  boiler;  add  the  milk 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens;  then  add  the  cocoanut 
and  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  occasionally.  Remove 
from  the  fire;  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  the  vanilla  and 
pour  into  a  wet  mold.  Turn  from  the  mold  when  chilled  and 
serve  with  custard  sauce. 

COCOANUT  JUNKET 

4  tablespoons  shredded  cocoanut  1  junket  tablet 

1  quart  milk  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Mix  the  cocoanut  and  milk  and  let  them  stand  in  a  warm 
oven  for  half  an  hour.  Add  sugar;  strain  when  dissolved,  and 
add  the  tablet  dissolved  in  the  cold  water.  Add  the  flavoring; 
pour  the  junket  into  glasses  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place, 
until  firm.  Remove  to  cool  place,  and  at  serving  time  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cocoanut.  Serve  with  or  without  cream. 

MOCK  CHARLOTTE 

Whites  of  4  eggs  V2  cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  cornstarch  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  boiling  water                          Custard  sauce 

Moisten  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water;  pour  over  it 
the  boiling  water  and  sugar  and  cook  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
clarify.  Pour  while  hot  over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs; 

183 


PUDDINGS   AND   DESSERTS 


mix  and  flavor  and   turn  into   a  bowl   that   has   been  rinsed  in 
cold  water.    At  serving  time  turn  out  and  pour  custard  around  it. 

ORANGE  PUDDING 

2  oranges  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

1  pint  milk  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

l/2  cup  sugar  Whites  of  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

tflice  the  oranges  into  a  pudding  dish.  Bring  the  milk  to  a  bofl 
and  pour  it  on  the  egg  which  has  been  well  beaten  with  the  sugar 
and  cornstarch.  Boil  until  the  mixture  thickens;  pour  over  the 
oranges;  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  eggs  and 
the  two  tablespoons  of  sugar;  brown  quickly  in  the  oven. 

BLANC   MANGF 

6  level  tablespoons  cornstarch  2%  cups  scalded  milk 

.    *4  cup  cold  milk  Pinch  of  salt 

Vs  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Stir  the  cornstarch  and  cold  milk  together,  adding  the  sugar. 
Pour  the  scalded  milk  slowly  over  the  first  mixture  and  stir  until 
it  thickens.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  twelve  minutes;  pour  into 
a  wet  mold  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn 
from  the  mold  and  decorate  with  candied  cherries  or  preserved 
fruit.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar  or  with  boiled  custard  sauce. 

RICE  BLANC   MANGE 

6  tablespoons  ground  rice  l/3  cup  sugar 

1  quart  milk  1  teaspoon  flavoring 

Soak  the  rice  for  twenty  minutes;  stir  into  the  milk;  boil  and 
stir  until  it  thickens,  using  a  double  boiler  to  prevent  sticking. 
Add  sugar  and  flavoring;  pour  into  wet  molds  and  stand  away  to 
cool.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

HOMINY  PUDDING 

2  tablespoons  ground  hominy  4  tablespoons  sugar 
1  quart  milk  3  eggs 

Pinch  of  salt  1  teaspoon  flavoring 

Pick  over  the  hominy  and  let  it  soak  in  the  milk  for  half  an  hour- 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  forty-five  minutes;  pour  over  the  beaten 

184  I-L 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 


yolks  and  sugar;  add  flavoring  and  beaten  whites;  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  lemon,  chocolate  or 
other  sauce. 

ALMOND  CREAM 

1  pint  scalded  milk  ll/2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  3  drops  almond  extract 

3  tablespoons  brown  sugar  Whites  of  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  brown  sugar  and  cornstarch;  pour  on 
them  the  scalded  milk;  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens;  flavor  and 
pour  into  a  baking  dish.  With  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  granu- 
lated sugar  make  a  meringue;  spread  over  the  custard  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

TAPIOCA  CUSTARD 

3  tablespoons  tapioca  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 
1  quart  milk  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Soak  the  tapioca  over  night;  drain  and  put  over  the  fire  in  the 
milk;  boil  slowly  half  an  hour  or  until  the  tapioca  is  transparent. 
Pour  this  mixture  on  the  yolks,  well  beaten  with  the  sugar;  and 
boil  all  until  a  custard  is  formed.  Remove  from  the  fire;  add  the 
beaten  whites,  salt  and  flavoring.  Lemon  juice  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  vanilla  if  preferred. 

COCOANUT  TAPIOCA 

4  tablespoons  tapioca  %  cup  shredded  cocoanut 
1  quart  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  Whites  of  3  eggs 

%  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  sugar 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  water  over  night;  drain  and  add  the  milk. 
Bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point;  stir  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  with  the  sugar.  Cook  until  the  custard  thickens,  stirring 
all  the  time;  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  cocoanut 
and  the  vanilla.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  eggs  and  sugar; 
pile  lightly  over  the  custard  and  set  in  the  oven  until  delicately 
browned. 

185  L-L 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 


MOUNTAIN-DEW  PUDDING 

6  rolled  soda  crackers  1  quart  milk 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  V2  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter  Whites  of  4  eggs 

4  tablespoons  sugar 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  crackers 
and  butter;  stir  in  gradually  the  milk  and  sugar;  pour  into  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish  and  bake  for  half  an  hour.  Make  a  meringue 
of  the  whites  of  eggs  and  the  four  tablespoons  of  sugar;  spread 
this  over  the  top;  brown  and  serve  when  cool. 


CUP  CUSTARDS 

4  cups  scalded  milk  4  tablespoons  sugar 

4  eggs  %  teaspoon  salt 

Grated  nutmeg 

Beat  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  and  salt;  add  the  milk  and  pouij 
into  cups,  grating  nutmeg  over  each.  Set  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  custard  is  set.  Test  by 
running  a  silver  knife  through  the  custard:  if  it  comes  out  clean 
the  custard  is  done.  Overcooking  will  make  the  custard  "  watery. " 


CARAMEL  CUSTARD 

4  cups  scalded  milk  4  eggs 

y2  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  the  sugar  until  it  is  light  brown  in  color;  add  it  to  the  milk. 
Beat  the  eggs;  add  the  milk  and  sugar,  salt  and  flavoring,  and 
bake  in  cups  as  directed  for  cup  custards.  Serve  with  caramel 
sauce. 

APPLE  SNOW 

1  large  sour  apple  Whites  of  2  eggs 

%  cup  powdered  sugar  Boiled  custard 

Peel  and  grate  the  apple,  sprinkling  the  sugar  over  it  as  it  is 
grated  to  keep  it  from  turning  dark.  Add  the  unbeaten  whites 
of  the  eggs;  beat  constantly  for  half  an  hour;  arrange  mound - 
fashion  on  a  glass  dish  with  cold  boiled  custard  around  it 


PUDDINGS'  AND  DESSERTS 


STRAWBERRY  TRIFLE  No.  1 

1  cup  mashed  strawberries  Whites  of  3  eggs 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  Boiled  custard 

Make  and  serve  like  Apple  Snow. 

STRAWBERRY  TRIFLE  No.  2 

Stale  cake  Sugar  to  taste 

l/2  cup  milk  1/4  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  egg  1  pint  cream 

1  cup  crushed  strawberries 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish  with  slices  of  stale  cake,  and 
pour  over  them  a  boiled  custard  made  from  the  milk  and 
egg,  sweetening  to  taste  and  flavoring  with  vanilla.  Whip  the 
cream;  mix  with  the  strawberries  and  pile  over  the  custard,  deco- 
rating the  top  with  a  few  whole  berries. 

LEMON  JELLY 

l/2  box  or  2  tablespoons  gelatine  ll/2  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  cold  water  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  lemon  juice 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  five  minutes;  then  pour 
on  the  boiling  water;  add  the  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved  and 
cooled.  Then  add  the  lemon  juice;  strain  through  sterilized 
cheesecloth  and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place  until  stiff. 

WHIPPED  JELLY 

Make  lemon  jelly  in  the  usual  way.  See  directions  above. 
Place  it  in  a  bowl  on  the  ice,  and  when  it  is  cool,  but  before  it 
begins  to  harden,  beat  with  a  Dover  beater  until  white  and  frothy. 
Turn  into  a  mold  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden;  serve  with 
boiled  custard  or  with  preserved  cherries  or  other  fruit. 

COFFEE  JELLY 

box  or  1  tablespoon  gelatine  %  cup  boiling  water 

cup  cold  water  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  strong  coffee 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  two  hours;  add  the  boil- 
ing water  and  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved;  then  add  the  coffee: 

187  L-L 


PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS 


strain  through  cheesecloth  into  a  wet  mold  and  stand  away  untiJ 
the  following  day.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

SPANISH  CREAM 

l/2  box  or  2  tablespoons  gelatine  3  eggl 

1  quart  milk  Pinch  of  salt 

y2  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Scald  the  milk  with  the  gelatine  and  pour  slowly  on  the  yolks, 
well  beaten  with  the  sugar.  Return  to  the  fire;  stir  and  cook  until 
thickened,  but  no  longer;  remove;  add  salt,  flavoring  and  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Turn  into  wet  molds;  cool  and  serve  with 
whipped  or  plain  cream. 

BAVARIAN    CREAM 

1/2  box  or  2  tablespoons  gelatine   5  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 
1  pint  milk  1  cup  milk 

Yolks  of  7  eggs  1  cup  rich  cream 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  pint  of  milk  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  thoroughly  hot;  then  remove  from  the  fire.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  until  light;  add  the  sugar  and  more  milk;  stir  well;  add 
the  hot  milk  and  gelatine.  When  thoroughly  mixed  stir  in  the 
cream  ;  flavor  and  add  more  sugar  if  desired.  Return  to  the  fire  ;  stir 
until  the  custard  thickens  a  little;  pour  into  a  wet  mold  and  when 
cool  stand  on  the  ice  until  serving  time. 


BRIDGE-WHIST  PUDDING 

1  pint  milk  Vi  box  or  1  tablespoon  gelatine 

1  egg  l/4  cup  water 

Sugar  English  walnuts 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  Candied  cherries 

1  cup  thick  cream  Lady  fingers 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk  and  egg,  sweetening  to  taste  and 
flavoring  with  vanilla;  to  this  add  the  cream,  whipped,  and  the 
gelatine,  dissolved  in  the  water.  Add  chopped  walnuts  and 
cherries  and  turn  into  a  mold  lined  with  lady  fingers.  Stand 
aside  for  several  hours  before  serving. 

188  L-L 


PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS 


JOYFUL  PUDDING 

cup  rice  1  tablespoon  gelatine 

cup  milk  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  thick  cream 

Clean  the  rice  and  cook  it  in  a  little  water  for  five  minutes; 
drain  thoroughly;  then  cook  with  the  milk  for  one  hour,  using  a 
double  boiler.  Set  the  pan  in  cold  water;  add  the  sugar  and  the 
gelatine  which  has  been  previously  soaked  in  the  cold  water. 
When  thoroughly  cold  add  the  cream,  whipped,  and  the  vanilla. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

14  cup  cold  water  1  pint  whipped  cream 

1  tablespoon  gelatine  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1A  CUP  boiling  water  6  maraschino  cherries 

l/2  CUP  sugar  1  dozen  lady  fingers 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water;  add  the  hot  water;  stir 
until  dissolved;  then  add  the  sugar.  .  As  soon  as  this  is  cool  but 
not  cold  whip  it  into  the  cream  which  has  already  been  whipped; 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  chopped  cherries  and  turn  into  a  bowl 
lined  with  halves  of  lady  fingers. 

WHIPS 

Vz  box  or  2  tablespoons  gelatine  l/2  cup  sugar 

l/2  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  boiling  water  Whites  of  2  eggs 

Candied  Cherries 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water;  pour  over  it  the  boiling 
water;  add  the  sugar  and  the  vanilla.  When  this  begins  to 
congeal  add  the  unbeaten  whites  of  eggs;  beat  until  white  and 
frothy;  fill  glasses  and  place  a  candied  cherry  on  top  of  each. 
Serve  with  cream  or  with  custard  sauce. 

PRUNE  WHIP 

1  pound  prunes  Whites  of  2  eggs 

Sugar  to  taste  1  tablespoon  pulverized  sugar 

Wash  the  prunes  thoroughly  and  soak  them  over  night.  In  the 
morning  cook  until  tender  in  the  water  in  which  they  have  soaked; 
remove  the  stones;  chop  fine  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs; 

189 


PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS 


add  the  powdered  sugar,  then  the  prunes.  Beat  thoroughly  and 
stand  on  the  ice  to  chill.  Serve  in  individual  glasses  or  paper  cases 
with  whipped  cream  or  custard  sauce. 

CHOCOLATE  CHARLOTTE 

Whites  of  5  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

2  ounces  unsweetened  chocolate  */2  cup  water 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  the  sugar,  water  and  chocolate  until  a  thin  syrup  is  formed; 
remove  from  the  fire;  fold  in  the  beaten  whites;  add  flavoring 
and  bake  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Serve  cold  with  custard  sauce. 

REALENGO 

34  cup  fresh  fruit  Sugar 

Whites  of  3  eggs  Whipped  cream 

Press  the  fruit  through  a  sieve;  heat  and  sweeten;  add  this  to 
the  well-beaten  whites,  beating  continually.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
mold  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm.  Remove;  cover  the  top 
with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste;  decorate 
with  preserved  cherries  or  citron.  This  is  a  favorite  Mexican 
dessert. 

DELICATE  PUDDING 

iy2  cups  water  3  tablespoons  cornstarch 

f/2  cup  sugar  3  egg  whites 

y2  saltspoon  salt  Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Mix 
the  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  water  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling 
syrup.  Cook  ten  minutes;  pour  over  the  beaten  egg  whites;  re- 
turn to  the  fire  a  minute  to  set  the  egg;  add  the  lemon;  turn  into 
a  wet  mold  and  set  on  the  ice  until  serving  time.  Serve  with 
berries  or  sliced  peaches. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA 

34  cup  tapioca  Sugar 

1  quart  water  6  apples 

A  little  grated  nutmeg 

Soak  the  tapioca  and  boil  it  in  the  water  until  clear,  sweetening 
to  taste.  Pare  and  core  the  apples  and  place  them  in  a  baking 

190  L-L 


BANANA   DAINTY  ALMONDS   WITH   EGGS 


PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS 


dish.  Fill  the  cores  with  sugar;  pour  the  tapioca  around  them  and 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top.  Cover  and  bake  until  the  apples 
are  soft.  Serve  with  cream  . 

CHERRY  TAPIOCA 

3/4  cup  tapioca  Sugar 

1  quart  water  1  cup  stoned  cherries 

Soak  the  tapioca  and  boil  it  in  the  water  until  clear,  sweetening 
to  taste.  Add  the  stoned  cherries;  cook  for  three  minutes  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Serve  with  cream. 

Peaches  or  other  fruit  may  be  used  instead  of  cherries. 

FIG  DESSERT 

2  pounds'  white  figs  Sponge  cake 

2  cups^sugar  Whipped  cream 

Soak  the  figs  ovej  night.  In  the  morning  boil  slowly  until 
tender;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  until  a  thick  syrup  is  formed.  Line 
a  dish  with  sponge  cake  or  lady  fingers;  pour  the  figs  in  the  center 
and  cover  with  whipped  cream  that  has  been  sweetened  and 
flavored.  Decorate  with  candied  cherries  or  angelica. 

APPLE  MERINGUE 

4  large  tart  apples  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

V3  cup  cold  water  White  of  1  egg 

Sugar  to  taste  ll/2  tablespoons  sugar 

Grated  cocoanut 

Peel,  core  and  slice  the  apples;  stew  them  in  the  water  until 
soft;  press  through  a  colander;  sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with 
lemon  rind.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  egg  and  sugar;  put  the 
apples  in  a  pudding  dish  and  cover  them  with  it,  dusting  all  with 
grated  nuts  or  cocoanut.  Brown  in  the  oven;  serve  with  cream. 

BERRY  CHARLOTTE 

1  pint  berries  1  cup  sugar 

l/2  cup  water  1  pint  bread 

Wash  the  berries;  stew  them  in  the  water  and  sugar  until  the 
juice  forms  a  syrup,  mashing  the  fruit  with  a  vegetable  masher,  and 
straining  to  remove  the  seeds.  Put  alternate  layers  of  bread  and 
cooked  berries  in  a  mold  and  when  cool  set  on  the  ice  until  needed. 
Turn  out  and  serve  with  cream  or  with  cold  boiled  custard. 

191  L-L 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 


BREAD-AND-BUTTER  PUDDING 

Bread  and  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  1  quart  milk 

l/2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  flavoring 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread;  remove  the  crusts;  butter  both  sides 
and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  pudding  dish  with  them. 
Beat  the  eggs;  add  milk,  sugar  and  flavoring;  strain  and  pour 
over  the  bread.  Sprinkle  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  over  the  top;  let 
stand  for  twenty  minutes;  then  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  As  soon  as 
the  custard  begins  to  thicken  on  the  sides  of  the  dish  it  is  done,  and 
should  be  removed  at  once  or  it  will  whey.  Serve  with  or  without 
sauce. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

Three-day  old  bread  Allspice 

Butter  Chopped  raisins 

Sugar  Milk 

Cinnamon  Pinch  of  salt 
Molasses 

Cut  the  bread  very  thin;  butter  it;  put  a  layer  in  the  pudding 
dish;  add  a  little  sugar,  a  pinch  of  allspice  and  cinnamon,  a  grating 
of  nutmeg  and  a  handful  of  chopped  raisins.  Add  farther  layers 
until  the  dish  is  full,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  bread.  Heat  the  milk; 
add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough  molasses  to  color  it  perceptibly. 
Pour  slowly  over  the  mass,  continuing  until  by  gently  pressing  the 
bread  the  milk  can  be  seen.  Cover  with  a  plate  and  leave  in  a 
moderately  warm  place  over  night.  If  it  seems  dry  in  the  morning 
add  more  milk.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three  or  four  hours. 
Keep  covered  with  the  plate  for  two  hours;  then  cover  with  paper. 


COTTAGE  PUDDING 

1  tablespoon  butter  %  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  ll/2  cups  flour 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Pinch  of  salt 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  egg  and  beat 
again.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  them  alternately 
with  the  milk.  Turn  into  a  buttered  cake  pan  and  bake  about 
half  an  hour.  Serve  with  vanilla  or  lemon  sauce. 

192  L-L 


PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS 


PEACH  PUDDING 

3  eggs  3  tablespoons  milk 

4  tablespoons  sugar  3  tablespoons  sifted  flour 

Sugared  peaches 

Fill  a  baking  dish  three-quarters  full  with  peaches  and  cover 
them  with  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs;  add  the  sugar  and 
milk;  then  the  sifted  flour  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very 
stiff.  Pour  the  batter  over  the  peaches;  mix  all  thoroughly  to- 
gether and  bake  about  forty-five  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  lemon 
sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

BAKED  FLOUR  PUDDING 

5  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 
3/4  cup  flour  1  quart  milk 

Beat  the  eggs  separately  and  then  together;  stir  in  the  sifted 
flour  and  the  milk;  strain  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish. 
Bake  half  an  hour  and  serve  immediately  with  lemon  or  vanilla 
sauce. 

BROWN  BETTY 

3  medium-sized  apples  */4  cup  sugar 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

l/4  cup  butter  Juice  and  rind  of  */2  lemon 

*/4  cup  boiling  water 

Pare,  quarter,  core  and  slice  the  apples.  Melt  the  butter  and 
pour  it  with  the  lemon  juice  over  the  crumbs.  Mix  the  cinnamon, 
grated  lemon  rind  and  sugar  together.  Butter  a  baking  dish;  put 
in  alternate  layers  of  apple  and  bread  crumbs,  sprinkling  the  apples 
with  the  sugar  mixture,  and  making  the  last  layer  of  crumbs. 
Pour  the  water  on  before  adding  the  last  layer  of  crumbs;  cover 
and  bake  for  thirty  minutes  or  until  the  apples  are  soft;  then  un- 
cover and  brown  the  crumbs.  Serve  with  cream  or  with  soft 
custard  or  lemon  sauce. 

QUEEN   OF  PUDDINGS 

1  quart  milk  4  eggs 

1  pint  bread  crumbs  Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

Marmalade  or  preserves 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk  for  half  an  hour;  add  the 
sugar,  the  beaten  yolks,  the  lemon  and  the  butter  melted. 

193 


PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS 


Bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
or  until  the  pudding  shrinks  away  from  the  sides  of  the  dish: 
spread  with  marmalade  or  preserves;  cover  with  a  meringue  made 
from  the  whites  of  eggs  and  four  extra  tablespoons  of  granulated 
sugar;  brown  quickly  in  the  oven  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Serve 
with  cream. 

RAISIN  PUFF 

l/2  cup  butter  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  seeded  raisins 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Sift 
together  the  flour  and  baking  powder;  add  alternately  with  the 
milk.  Then  add  the  raisins,  finely  chopped.  Put  into  small 
greased  cups  and  steam  one  half  hour.  Serve  with  lemon  or 
vanilla  sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING 

V2  pound  raisins  i/4  orange  peel,  minced 

V2  pound  chopped  suet  1/2  cup  flour 

3  cups  bread  crumbs  1/2  pound  currants 
1/2  cup  brown  sugar  i/4  nutmeg,  grated 
Grated  rind  of  V2  lemon  2  eggs 

l/2  cup  milk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly.  Beat  the  eggs;  add  them 
to  the  milk  and  pour  over,  the  dry  mixture.  Mix  thoroughly; 
pack  in  greased  tins,  leaving  space  of  one  inch  at  the  top  of  each. 
Tie  on  the  lids  and  boil  for  ten  hours.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  until 
needed.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


NEWMARKET  PUDDING 

1  pint  milk  i/2  nutmeg,  grated 
Bread  crumbs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  i/4  teaspoon  cloves 
1  cup  currants  1  tablespoon  butter 
1  cup  raisins  i/4  teaspoon  salt 

Thicken  the  milk  with  the  bread  crumbs;  add  the  beaten  egg 
and  other  ingredients  and  bake  for  two  hours.  Serve  with  lemon 
or  vanilla  sauce. 

194 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 


BROWN-BREAD   PUDDING 

*/2  pound  grated  brown  bread  V£  cup  sugar 

1/2  pound  currants  V2  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

l/2  pound  chopped  s*,uet  2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  cream 

Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly  and  boil  them  in  a  buttered 
pudding  mold  or  cloth  for  three  hours.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

PEACH  PATTIES 

Hollow  out  little  stale  sponge  cakes;  brush  with  butter  inside 
and  out;  place  in  each  cavity  two  halves  of  peaches,  pared  and 
fitted  together  with  a  little  orange  marmalade  or  other  preserve 
in  the  center.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  chopped  nuts;  bake  until 
the  peaches  are  tender  and  serve  with  vanilla  or  fruit  sauce. 

CANNED  PEACH  PUDDING 

1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  %  cup  sugar 

1  pint  boiling  milk  4  eggs 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  2  cups  canned  peaches 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk;  add  the  butter,  sugar,  beaten  eggs 
and  mashed  peaches.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mold  or  tin  can; 
cover  closely  and  boil  for  two  hours.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

SUET  PUDDING  No.  1 

Vj»  cup  chopped  suet  %  cup  molasses 

l/2  cup  seeded  raisins  l/2  cup  milk 

1V2  cups  flour  %  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  adding  the  soda  dissolved  in  the 
milk  last.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mold  or  can;  cover  closely  and 
boil  three  hours.  Serve  with  hard  or  foamy  sauce, 

SUET  PUDDING  No.  2 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  Vz  teaspoon  cloves 

1/2  cup  chopped  suet  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1/2  cup  molasses  Pinch  of  salt 

1  egg  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  raisins  %  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  adding  the  soda  dissolved  in  the 
milk  last.  Cover  closely  in  a  buttered  mold  or  tin  can  and  boil  for 
two  hours.  Serve  with  hard  or  foamy  sauce. 

195  L-L 


PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS 


APPLE  PUDDING 
2  cups  flour  1  egg 

l/4  teaspoon  salt  1  scant  cup  m 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  4  apples 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Make  a  dough  of  the  first  six  ingredients  and  spread  one  half 
inch  thick  in  a  buttered  pan.  Pare  and  core  the  apples;  cut  them 
into  eighths;  spread  them  over  the  dough;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon  and  bake  the  pudding  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve 
with  lemon  or  vanilla  sauce. 

Peach  pudding  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

SPONGE-CAKE  PUDDING 

4  eSifs  V2  weight  in  flour 

Equal  weight  in  sugar  Grated  rind  of  i/2  lemon 

Beat  the  eggs  separately  until  very  light;  stir  the  sugar  into  the 
yolks;  add  the  flour  and  whites  of  the  eggs  alternately,  then  the 
lemon.  Bake  in  a  Turk's  head,  and  serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING  No.  1 

1  pint  hot  milk  i/2  cup  sugar 

Y2  cup  Indian  meal  i/2  teaspoon  ginger 

f  fggs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  tablespoon  flour  Pinch  of  salt 
1  pint  cold  milk 

Bring  one  pint  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point;  pour  it  gradually  on 
the  meal,  stirring  all  the  while  to  prevent  lumps.  When  cool,  add 
the  beaten  eggs  and  the  other  ingredients.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  with  hot  maple 
sugar  or  cream. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING  No.  2 

5  cups  milk  i/2  cup  molasses 

l/3  cup  Indian  meal  i/2  teaspoon  salt 

l/2  teaspoon  ginger 

Scald  the  milk;  pour  it  slowly  on  the  meal;  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  for  twenty  minutes;  add  molasses,  salt  and  ginger.  Pour 
into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  about 
two  hours.  Serve  with  cream. 


196 


L-L 


Fiami"ydof0Foaur  PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS 

BOILED  INDIAN  PUDDING 

1  quart  milk  2  tablespoons  chopped  suet 

2  cups  Indian  meal  */2  teaspoon  salt 

5  tablespoons  molasses  1  cup  seeded  raisins 

ll/z  tablespoons  flour 

Scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  over  the  meal;  add  the  molasses, 
suet,  salt,  and  the  raisins  washed  and  dredged  with  the  flour.  Put 
the  pudding  into  a  mold  or  bag  and  boil  four  hours.  Serve  with 
butter  and  maple  syrup. 

The  raisins  may  be  omitted  if  desired. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING 

1  egg,  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  iy2  cups  flour 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  pint  berries 

Beat  the  egg  with  the  sugar  and  butter;  add  the  milk  and  sifted 
flour  and  baking  powder.  When  thoroughly  mixed  add  the  huckle- 
berries, previously  washed  and  drained  and  dredged  with  flour. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  lemon  or  fruit  sauce.  ' 

BERRY  PUDDING 

1  quart  bread  crumbs  2  eggs 

1  pint  milk  1  quart  berries 

Pinch  of  salt 

Soak  the  broken  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk;  add  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  the  salt  and  the  berries,  washed  and  drained.  Steam  in  a 
buttered  mold  for  three  hours  and  serve  with  either  hard  sauce  or 
fruit  sauce. 

STEAMED  FRUIT  PUDDING 

2  cups  flour  1  egg 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  milk 

Pinch  of  salt  2  cups  fruit 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together;  stir  in  the  beaten  egg 
and  the  milk  gradually.  Mix  until  smooth;  add  the  fruit,  washed, 
drained  and  well  dredged  with  flour;  stir  carefully  and  empty  into 
a  greased  tin  can  or  pudding  mold.  Cover;  stand  in  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  and  boil  continuously  for  three  hours.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream  or  with  hard  sauce. 
' 14  197 


PUDDINGS  AND   DESSERTS rZSSSrt'&S 

PEACH  COBBLER 

1  quart  peaches  iVs  cups  flour 

1  cup  water  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

iy2  cups  sugar  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

l/a  cup  milk  2  eggs 

Wash  and  pare  the  peaches;  cut  them  in  halves  and  cook  with 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  the  water  until  the  peaches  are  tender. 
Empty  into  a  baking  dish,  reserving  one  half  cup  of  syrup.  Sift 
the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder;  add  the  remaining  sugar  and  eggs, 
and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  milk  and  the  remaining  syrup.  Pour 
the  batter  over  the  peaches  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one 
half  hour.  Serve  hot,  with  or  without  sauce. 


DATE  SPONGE 

1  quart  scalded  milk  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

l/2  cup  cornstarch  Vfe  cup  sugar 

1  cup  cold  milk  %  pound  dates 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

To  the  scalded  milk  add  the  cornstarch,  mixed  smooth  with  the 
cold  milk,  and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  butter,  salt  and  sugar; 
cover  and  let  cook  over  boiling  water  for  twenty  minutes.  Then 
add  the  dates,  stoned  and  chopped,  and  the  flavoring.  Cook  for 
ten  minutes  longer,  stirring  all  the  time;  pour  into  a  glass  dish 
and  when  cool  decorate  with  whole  stoned  dates. 

SAVARIN 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4  eggs 

l/2  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled        l/2  cup  butter,  melted 

2  tablespoons  sugar  %  cup  almonds,  shredded 
2  cups  sifted  flour  *4  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  milk;  add  one  half 
cup  of  flour.  Beat  well;  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place,  free 
from  draft,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  add  the  rest  of  the  flour, 
almonds,  butter,  eggs  unbeaten,  one  at  a  time,  and  the  salt.  Beat 
ten  minutes;  pour  into  thickly  buttered  molds;  cover  and  set 
aside  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  double  in  bulk 
— about  forty-five  minutes.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.  Fill  the  center  with  whipped  cream  and  serve  with 
caramel  sauce. 

1  OS  L-I, 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 


WALNUT  AND  DATE  DAINTY 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  walnut  meats 

Pinch  of  salt  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

I  tablespoon  sifted  flour  1  cup  chopped  dates 

Marshmallows  to  decorate 

Beat  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  and  salt  for  five  minutes;  add  the 
flour  mixed  with  the  baking  powder,  the  nuts,  flavoring  and  dates. 
Mix  well  and  bake  in  individual  dishes  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
firm.  Decorate  with  marshmallows  and  serve  with  cream  or 
custard  sauce. 

CREAM  PUFFS 

1  cup  hot  water  Pinch  of  salt 

V2  cup  butter  1  cup  flour 

3  eggs 

Boil  the  water,  butter  and  salt;  stir  in  the  dry  flour  while  it  is 
boiling  and  stir  quickly  until  the  mass  thickens.  Stand  aside  to 
cool  and  when  cool  add  the  eggs,  unbeaten,  and  stir  them  in  thor- 
oughly. Drop  the  mixture  by  tablespoons  on  buttered  tins  and 
bake  for  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  When  cool  cut 
open  with  a  sharp  knife  and  fill  with  cream. 

CREAM   FOR  PUFFS! 

1  cup  milk  1  egg 

l/2  cup  sugar  4  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  the  milk  on  to  boil  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  egg  with 
the  sugar;  add  the  flour;  stir  all  into  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  mixture  thickens;  when  cool  add  the  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE   ECLAIRS 

Prepare  batter  as  for  Cream  Puffs.  Spread  the  batter  on  the 
baking  pan  in  long  ovals,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes. 
When  done,  split  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  fill  with  cream  as  for 
Puffs.  Cover  with  plain  or  chocolate  frosting. 


199 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS  planned  for  a 


p        *  F 

JIFFY  PUDDING 

2  cups  berries  or  cherries  Vz  CUP  sugar 

1V4  cups  boiling  water  Vs  cup  flour 

Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  fruit.  Cook  gently  eight  or  ten 
minutes.  Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  and  add  sufficient  cold  water 
to  make  a  smooth  liquid.  Pour  mixture  slowly  into  the  fruit,  and 
let  simmer  five  minutes,  stirring  carefully.  Serve  with  cream, 
sweetened,  or  pour  into  molds  and  serve  cold. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 

Make  a  plain  Short  Cake.  See  page  284.  Bake  in  two  round 
cake  pans,  about  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  When  slightly 
cool,  split,  and  spread  with  butter.  Allow  no  less  than  one  quart 
of  berries  to  a  short  cake— the  more  the  better.  Crush  all  the 
berries  except  those  to  be  used  in  decorating  the  top.  Sweeten 
to  taste.  If  berries  are  not  very  ripe,  heat  them  slightly  before 
crushing.  Pour  them  over  the  first  split  half  of  short  cake,  cover 
with  the  other  half,  and  continue  in  this  way  until  it  is  four  stories 
high.  Decorate  with  whole  berries — and  meringue,  if  desired. 
Serve  with  Creamy  Sauce,  or  with  sweetened,  flavored  cream. 


200 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


"Cans' teat  a  dream?" 

"I've  done  it — a  frozen  arid  refreshing  dream.     'Twas  more  than 
my  dessert.'9 

— Quaint  Tales. 


202 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 

Tj^ROZEN  desserts  are  refreshing  and  wholesome  and  require 
•*•  less  time  in  preparation  than  the  ordinary  pudding.  Success, 
moreover,  is  assured  if  a  few  very  simple  directions  are  followed. 

The  essentials  are  to  have  the  ice  finely  crushed  and  to  use 
the  right  proportion  of  coarse  rock  salt.  The  finer  the  ice  is 
crushed  the  quicker  it  melts,  so  for  this  reason  it  is  important  to 
have  the  ice  broken  into  very  small  pieces.  Enough  should  be 
broken  for  the  entire  freezing,  as  the  process  of  turning  the  crank 
should  not  be  interrupted. 

The  can  should  be  completely  surrounded  and  covered  with  a 
mixture  of  ice  and  salt,  using  three  parts  ice  to  one  of  salt.  Let 
it  stand  for  a  minute  or  two  until  the  mixture  begins  to  freeze  to 
the  inside  of  the  can.  Then  turn  the  crank  continuously  until 
the  mixture  seems  hard  and  heavy  to  move;  then  take  out  the 
dasher,  scrape  the  frozen  dessert  from  the  sides  of  the  can  and 
pack  it  down  closely.  Put  a  cork  in  the  opening  of  the  cover, 
fill  up  the  bucket  with  ice  and  salt,  cover  with  burlap  or  piece 
of  carpet  and  let  stand  an  hour  or  more  to  ripen. 

Do  not  draw  off  any  of  the  water  until  the  freezing  is  completed, 
but  add  ice  and  salt  as  necessary.  The  melted  water  helps  to 
freeze  the  mixture  in  the  can  and  need  not  be  drawn  off  at  all  if 
the  dessert  is  to  be  served  within  an  hour. 

The  mixture  should  be  prepared  several  hours  before  freezing 
and  allowed  to  stand  in  the  refrigerator  until  thoroughly  chilled. 
Can  and  dasher  should  be  scalded  before  using. 

To  crush  the  ice  use  an  ice-crusher  or  a  wooden  mallet.  Put 
the  ice  in  a  bag  of  burlap  or  canvas  and  pound  into  fine  pieces. 
When  the  dessert  is  served,  drain  the  salt  that  is  in  the  can  and 
save  to  use  again. 

203 


FROZEN  DESSERTS F125iy  of  SfJ 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM  No.  1 

iy2  cups  milk  1  egg 

%  cup  sugar  1  pint  cream 

1  tablespoon  flour  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil.  Beat  the  egg;  add  the  flour  and 
half  the  sugar;  stir  into  the  boiling  milk  and  put  over  the  fire. 
Cook  until  it  thickens;  add  the  cream  and  the  rest  of  the  sugar; 
set  aside  to  cool;  add  the  vanilla  and  freeze. 

Serve  plain  or  with  berries  or  with  hot  or  cold  chocolate  sauce. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM  No.  2 

3  pints  thin  cream  l1/^  cups  sugar 

1  vanilla  bean  or  1  tablespoon  extract 

Scald  the  cream  with  the  sugar,  using  part  milk  if  the  cream  is 
rich.  When  cold,  add  the  flavoring  and  freeze. 

To  prepare  the  bean  put  it  in  a  small  kettle;  cover  with  water 
and  let  simmer  until  the  water  is  half  gone,  keeping  the  kettle 
covered  all  the  time.  Remove  from  the  fire;  scrape  each  piece 
of  bean  with  a  blunt  knife,  mixing  the  seeds  and  pulp  with  the 
water  and  using  all  for  the  flavoring. 

ECONOMICAL  ICE  CREAM 

1  quart  milk  2  level  tablespoons  flour 
If  cup  sugar  1  saltspoon  salt 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Make  a  boiled  custard,  following  the  usual  directions,  and  freeze. 
If  desired,  fresh  fruits,  thoroughly  mashed  and  sweetened,  may 
be  added  instead  of  vanilla. 


FLOWERING  ICE  CREAM 

Procure  new  flower-pots,  about  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter; 
wash  thoroughly;  fill  with  ice  cream;  cover  with  grated  chocolate 
to  represent  soil,  and  stick  a  flower  in  each. 

BOMBE  GLACE 

Line  a  chilled  bombe  mold  with  frozen  strawberries  or  grape 
sherbet  and  fill  the  center  with  vanilla  ice  cream.  Cover  the  top 

204  L-L 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


with  more  sherbet;  press  down  the  lid  over  a  sheet  of  paper, 
making  it  fit  closely  so  that  no  salt  can  get  in.  Let  stand  in  ice 
and  salt  for  an  hour  or  more. 


MERINGUES  GLACEES 
See  Meringues,  chapter  on  "Cakes." 

FROZEN  CUSTARD 

1  quart  milk  1  cup  sugar 

4  eggs  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil;  pour  it  slowly  on  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten  with  the  sugar;  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  boil  until  a  thick  custard  is  formed.  When  the  steam  has 
passed  off,  add  the  flavoring;  cool  and  freeze. 

FROZEN   COCOANUT  CUSTARD 

1 l/2  cups  shredded  cocoanut  Yolks  of  5  eggs 

1  quart  hot  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  Lady  fingers 

Chop  the  cocoanut  very  fine.  Beat  the  eggs  with  the  sugar; 
add  the  hot  milk  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken.  Remove;  add  the  flavoring  and  cool.  Then  add  the 
cocoanut  and  mix  thoroughly.  Turn  into  a  freezer  and  freeze. 
Serve  in  sherbet  glasses  lined  with  lady  fingers. 

FROZEN  PUDDING 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  1  cup  seeded  raisins 

Yolk  of  1  egg  1A  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  milk  Pinch  of  salt 

ll/2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  preserved  fruit  1  pint  thick  cream 

Mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk;  add  the  beaten  egg 
and  pour  over  it  the  milk  which  has  been  scalded  with  the  sugar. 
Cook  thoroughly;  remove  from  fire;  add  salt,  vanilla,  fruit  and 
nuts;  cool,  add  the  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth  and  freeze. 

When  frozen  turn  into  a  mold.  At  serving  time  lay  in  a  platter 
and  decorate  with  walnuts  or  candied  cherries. 

205  L-I, 


FROZEN   DESSERTS 


CHOCOLATE  ICE   CREAM 

1/2  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  ounces  unsweetened  chocolate 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  water 

Custard 

Mix  the  ingredients;  heat  and  stir  until  thoroughly  smooth;  add 
lihem  to  a  custard  made  as  for  Economical  Ice  Cream  and  freeze. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  ICE   CREAM 

1  quart  cream  V2  ounce  chopped  almonds 

V2  pound  sugar  Vz  pound  preserved  or  candied  fruit 

Scald  the  cream  and  sugar;  cool;  add  the  nuts  and  fruits  and 
freeze. 

BISQUE  ICE  CREAM 

3  pints  thin  cream  Vz  pound  macaroons 
ll/2  cups  sugar                                        1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Soak  the  macaroons  in  cream;  mash  and  add  to  the  cream  in 
which  the  sugar  has  been  dissolved;  then  add  the  vanilla  and 
freeze. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM 

3  pints  thin  cream  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

1  Yz  cups  sugar  1  cup  strong  coffee 

\l/%  tablespoons  gelatine 

Beat  the  eggs  light;  mix  with  the  sugar;  add  one  pint  of  the 
cream  and  make  a  custard.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  coffee  and 
when  cool  add  to  the  cream  that  remains;  add  the  custard  when 
cool;  mix  well  and  freeze.  Half  milk  may  be  used  if  desired. 

CARAMEL  ICE   CREAM 

1  pint  milk  1  egg 

l/4  cup  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

iy2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
1  pint  cream 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  saving  a  half  cup  to  mix  the 
flour  and  half  of  the  sugar.  Add  these  and  cook  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Melt  the  second  quantity  of  sugar  until  it  is  brown  and 
syrupy;  add  to  the  cooked  custard  together  with  the  beaten  egg. 
Beat  until  free  from  lumps;  cool  and  add  the  flavoring  and  cream. 

20(5  I.-L 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


LEMON  ICE  CREAM 

3  pints  thin  cream  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  pound  sugar  Juice  of  2  lemons 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  cream,  reserving  about  one  fourth 
of  it  to  mix  with  the  lemon.  The  lemon  must  not  be  added  until 
just  before  the  cream  is  put  \n  the  freezer. 

•* 

PINEAPPLE  ICE  CREAM 

3  pints  thin  cream  l/2  cup  sugar 

1  pint  can  grated  pineapple 

Add  the  pineapple  to  the  cream  and  sugar;  let  stand  for  one  hour 
and  freeze. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM 

3  pints  thin  cream  2  cups  sugar 

2  quarts  berries 

Wash  and  hull  the  strawberries;  sprinkle  them  with  sugar  and 
let  them  stand.  Mash  thoroughly;  mix  with  the  cream  and  freeze. 

PEACH  ICE  CREAM 

3  pints  thin  cream  2  cups  sugar 

1  quart  sliced  peaches 

Cover  the  peaches  with  the  sugar;  let  stand,  mash  and  add  to  the 
cream  and  freeze. 

ORANGE  ICE 

2  cups  sugar  Juice  of  5  or  6  oranges 
1  quart  water                                   Juice  of  2  lemons 

Grated  rind  of  2  oranges 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  for  ten  minutes;  add  the  jiiice  and  rind 
and  let  stand  until  time  to  freeze.  Strain  and  freeze. 

LEMON  ICE 

3  pints  water  3  cups  sugar 
Juice  of  6  lemons  Whites  of  2  eggs 

Let  the  sugar  and  water  boil  together  for  ten  minutes;  add  the 
lemon  juice;  strain  and  cool.  When  partly  frozen  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs. 

207  L-L 


FROZEN  DESSERTS FaPXP?f 

PINEAPPLE  ICE 

3  pints  water  1  pineapple 

1  pound  sugar  Juice  of  2  lemons 

Whites  of  2  eggs 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water;  add  the  grated  pineapple  and  lemon; 
strain  through  a  fine  sieve  and  freeze.  When  partly  frozen  add 
the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten. 


CURRANT  ICE 

2  cups  sugar  3  cups  currant  juice 

1  pint  water  Whites  of  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  for  fifteen  minutes;  when  cool  add  the 
currant  juice;  strain  and  freeze.  When  nearly  frozen  add  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  the  powdered  sugar. 

FROZEN  CHERRIES 

2  quarts  pie  cherries  2  pounds  sugar 

1  quart  water 

Wash  and  stone  the  cherries ;  cover  them  with  the  sugar  and  let 
stand  one  hour.  Add  the  water  and  freeze. 


FROZEN  STRAWBERRIES 

1  quart  strawberries  Juice  of  1  lemon 

1  pound  sugar  1  quart  water 

Wash,  drain  and  mash  the  berries;  cover  them  with  the  lemon 
and  sugar  and  let  stand  for  one  hour.  Add  the  water;  stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  freeze. 

FROZEN  RASPBERRIES 

Follow  the  recipe  for  frozen  strawberries. 

FROZEN  PEACHES 

Follow  the  recipe  for  frozen  strawberries,  substituting  a  quart 
of  sliced  peaches,  preferably  yellow  ones,  for  the  berries. 

208  L-L 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


GRAPE  SHERBET 

1  pint  grape  juice  1  cup  sugar 

1  quart  cold  milk 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  rich  grape  juice;  add  the  milk;  mix 
thoroughly  and  freeze. 

LEMON  SHERBET 

1  quart  milk  ll/2  cup  sugar 

Juice  of  3  lemons 

Mix  the  juice  and  sugar;  add  the  milk  gradually,  stirring  con- 
stantly so  that  the  mixture  will  not  curdle.  Then  freeze. 

ORANGE  SHERBET 

1  egg  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  3  oranges 

1  quart  milk  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  pint  cream  2*/2  cups  sugar 

Beat  the  egg  lightly  and  add  it  to  the  milk  and  cream.  Dissolve 
the  sugar  thoroughly  with  the  lemon  and  orange;  mix  with  the 
other  ingredients  and  freeze. 

COMBINATION  SHERBET 

Juice  of  1  lemon  1A  cup  raspberry  juice 

uice  of  1  orange  l/4  cup  cherry  juice 

/2  cup  pineapple  juice  2  cups  sugar 

1A  cup  currant  juice  1  quart  chilled  milk 

Whites  of  2  eggs 

Dissolve  the  sugar  thoroughly  in  the  fruit  juice;  add  the  milk 
and  freeze  as  usual.  When  nearly  frozen  add  the  beaten  eggs. 

FRUIT  GRANITE 

2  cups  sugar  1  pint  fruit 

1  quart  water  1  pint  fruit  juice 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  for  five  minutes;  scald  the  fruits 
in  the  syrup  for  one  minute;  skim  them  out  and  add  to  the  syrup 
one  pint  of  fruit  juice.  Strain  and  freeze  when  cold.  Freeze 
soft;  stir  in  the  cooked  fruit  and  serve  in  sherbet  glasses. 

209 


FROZEN  DESSERTS *SS5?otvS£ 

ORANGE  PEKOE  SHERBET 

1  teaspoon  gelatine  Juice  of  2  lemons 
l/4  cup  cold  water  Juice  of  1  orange 

2  cups  Orange  Pekoe  tea  1  cup  white  grape  juice 

%  cup  sugar 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  five  minutes;  pour  on 
it  the  hot  tea.  Add  the  other  ingredients  and  when  cold  freeze 
In  serving  garnish  with  candied  orange  peel. 

GINGER  FRAPPE 

1/2  cup  molasses  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  quart  water  l/2  teaspoon  powdered  gingei 

Dissolve  the  molasses  in  the  water;  add  the  lemon  juice  and 
ginger  and  freeze  to  a  soft  mush. 

CHOCOLATE  FRAPPE 

Prepare  chocolate  as  for  drinking;  then  chill;  freeze  soft  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CAFE  FRAPPE 

1  quart  clear  coffee  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  thin  cream 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  hot  coffee,  add  the  cream  and  freeze 
to  a  mush. 

GRAPE-FRUIT  FRAPPE 

1  quart  water  ll/2  cups  grape-fruit  juice 

2  cups  sugar  ll/2  cups  lemon  juice 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  for  fifteen  minutes;  cool  thoroughly; 
add  the  fruit  juice;  strain  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Serve  in  grape- 
fruit skins. 

CRANBERRY  FRAPPE 

1  teaspoon  gelatine  1*4  cups  sugar 

1  pint  cold  water  Juice  of  1  lemon 

1  pint  cranberries  l/±  cup  boiling  water 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  half  a  cup  of  the  cold  water  and  cook  the 
cranberries  in  the  remainder.  When  soft  press  through  a  sieve; 
add  sugar,  lemon  and  the  gelatine,  dissolved  in  the  boiling  water. 
Freeze  to  a  mush  and  serve  with  roast  turkey. 

210  L-L 


FROZEN   DESSERTS 


CAFE  PARFAIT 

*/2  cup  coffee  l/2  cup  sugar 

1  cup  cold  water  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

1  pint  thick  cream 

Steep  the  coffee  in  the  water  and  simmer  until  reduced  to  one 
half  the  amount;  strain  it  over  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  well  mixed 
with  the  sugar;  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick  and  smooth. 
Beat  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  the  coffee  mixture  when  cool; 
pour  into  a  mold  or  ice-cream  can  and  let  stand  in  ice  and  salt 
for  three  hours.  Use  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt  and  do  not  stii 
or  turn  the  mixture. 

CHOCOLATE  PARFAIT 

2  ounces  unsweetened  chocolate          Yolks  of  4  eggs 

l/4  cup  hot  water  1  pint  whipped  cream 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cook  the  first  three  ingredients  until  thick;  pour  over  the  beaten 
eggs  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  mixture  coats  the  spoon. 
Cool  thoroughly;  add  the  whipped  cream;  flavor  and  freeze  like 
Cafe  Parfait. 

MOUSSE 

1  pint  sugar  Whites  of  6  eggs 

1  pint  water  Flavoring 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  about  five  minutes  or  until 
it  threads;  then  drop  slowly  on  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
continue  beating  until  cold.  Flavor  to  suit  the  taste  with  fruit 
or  coffee  and  let  it  stand  in  a  pail  of  chopped  ice  and  rock  salt 
for  about  five  hours.  Use  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt. 


CHERRY  MOUSSE 

1  pint  thick  cream  2  drops  almond  extract 

1  cup  cherry  juice  Powdered  sugar 

Mix  the  ingredients,  sweetening  to  taste;  chill  and  whip  until 
stiff;  then  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  hours  or  more. 

Grape,  raspberry  and  strawberry  mousse  may  be  made  in  the 
same  way.  Heat  the  fruit  slightly  before  mashing  and  straining 
for  the  juice. 

211  L-L 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


PINEAPPLE  MOUSSE 

1  pint  thick  cream  Juice  of  V£  lemon 

1  pint  pineapple  juice  and  pulp  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly;  chill  and  whip  until  stiff.  Let 
stand  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  hours  or  more. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

cup  sultanas  1  pint  thick  sream 

cup  maple  syrup  y2  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Wash,  drain  and  soak  the  raisins  in  the  syrup  for  several  hours; 
then  strain  the  syrup  into  the  cream.  Whip  to  a  stiff  froth;  add 
the  raisins  and  lemon  juice  and  turn  into  a  freezer  without  the 
beaters.  Surround  by  equal  parts  of  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand 
until  firm. 

CHERRY  SAUCE  FOR  ICES 

Stem  and  stone  the  cherries;  add  a  few  broken  kernels  and 
enough  sugar  to  keep  them  from  discoloring.  Let  stand  half  an 
hour;  remove  the  kernels;  add  more  sugar  and  pour  over  any 
plain  ice  or  ice  cream. 


212 


SWEET  SAUCES 


15 


Truly,  "hunger  is  the  best  sauce";    but  when  hunger  is  lacking,, 
the  clever  cook  knows  a  thing  or  two. 

— Fables  of  a  Rolling  Pin. 


214 


SWEET  SAUCES 

MANY  puddings,  frozen  desserts,  and  entrees  are  the  better 
for  a  sweet  sauce;   and  its  use  will  often  convert  left-over 
cake  into  a  simple  and  pleasing  dessert. 

CREAMY  SAUCE 

V4  cup  butter  1  egg 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  */2  cup  thick  cream 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  well-beaten  egg  and  beat 
all  thoroughly.  When  very  light  add  the  cream,  a  little  at  a 
time.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until 
the  sauce  is  smooth  and  creamy,  but  no  longer;  add  flavoring 
and  serve. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE  No.  1 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  cup  hot  water 

Melt  the  sugar  in  an  iron  saucepan  and  stir  until  it  is  a  light 
brown;  add  the  boiling  water;  cook  for  two  minutes;  pour  into 
a  bowl  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE  No.  2 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

2V2  tablespoons  cornstarch  %  tablespoon  vanilla 

4  tablespoons  cold  water  1  teaspoon  corn  syrup 

Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch  thoroughly:  moisten  with  the 
cold  water  and  heat  slowly  in  a  granite  saucepan  until  of  a  delicate 
brown  color.  Add  the  boiling  water;  cook  until  clear;  add  flavor- 
ing and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Boiled  Custard  in  the  chapter  on  "Pud- 
dings  and  Desserts." 

215  L-L 


SWEET  SAUCES 


HARD   SAUCE  No.   1 

l/4  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Grated  nutmeg 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  until 
very  light.  Then  add  the  flavoring;  beat  well  and  shape  it  in  a 
mound  on  a  glass  dish.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top  and 
set  in  a  cool  place  until  needed. 


HARD   SAUCE  No.   2 

l/2  cup  butter  Whites  of  2  eggs 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Grated  nutmeg 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  the  sugar  gradually;  then  the 
whites,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  until  stiff  and  frothy.  Add  flavoring; 
beat  again;  then  heap  on  a  glass  dish  and  sprinkle  with  grated 
nutmeg. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  level  tablespoon  flour  1  ounce  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  cup  boiling  water  2  level  tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  thoroughly  in  a  saucepan;  pour  on  the 
boiling  water;  add  chocolate,  butter  and  salt;  cook  until  the  choco- 
late is  thoroughly  dissolved  and  the  mixture  thickened.  Stir  con- 
stantly to  prevent  sticking.  When  the  steam  has  passed  off,  add 
the  vanilla  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

MOCK  CREAM 

1  level  teaspoon  cornstarch  1  cup  scalding  milk 

1  level  tablespoon  sugar  White  of  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  cornstarch  and  sugar  thoroughly;  on  them  slowly  pour 
the  scalding  milk,  stirring  all  the  while.  Cook  and  stir  in  a  double 
boiler  for  ten  minutes;  then  set  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to  use 
stir  in  the  vanilla  and  the  white  of  the  egg,  stiffly  beaten.  Serve 
in  place  of  whipped  cream. 

218  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT  CAKES,  ETC. 


Here  is  bread,  which  strengthened  mans  heart;    and  therefore  is 
called  the  staff  of  life. 

— MATTHEW  HENRY. 


220 


BREAD-MAKING 

GOOD  bread  flour  is  a  rich  creamy  yellow  in  color,  is  slightly 
gritty,  and  if  squeezed  hard  in  the  hand,  will  not  hold  form, 
but  will  crumble  apart  upon  release.  Pastry  flour  contains  more 
starch  and  less  gluten  (protein)  than  bread  flour.  It  is  paler  in 
color,  velvety  to  the  touch,  and  retains  the  form  of  the  hand  after 
the  pressure  test.  Most  bread  flours  on  the  market  are  from 
blended  spring  and  winter  wheat,  but  the  pressure  test  always 
holds  good  for  selection. 

The  three  essentials  in  bread-making  are  flour,  yeast  and  liquid. 
The  yeast  plant  grows  best  in  a  temperature  of  86°  F.  Bread 
should  therefore  be  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  drafts. 
On  the  other  hand,  too  great  heat  will  kill  the  yeast  plant  and  make 
the  bread  sour.  About  75°  F.  is  the  most  practical  temperature 
to  maintain.  Two  risings  are  sufficient  if  the  ingredients  have 
been  well  mixed.  Dough  permitted  to  rise  until  too  light  will 
be  full  of  holes;  bread  baked  before  it  is  sufficiently  light  will 
be  heavy.  Bread  must  be  well  covered  while  rising  to  prevent  a 
crust  from  forming  on  the  top  of  the  dough.  Several  thicknesses 
of  clean  towels  are  best  for  this  purpose  if  a  covered  bread-raiser 
is  not  used.  The  bread  in  the  pans  must  also  be  covered  until 
it  is  put  in  the  oven. 

The  use  of  the  patent  bread-mixer  shortens  the  work  of  bread- 
mixing  and  is  therefore  to  be  recommended. 

Kneading 

To  knead  the  bread  push  the  dough  with  the  palm  and  draw  it 
forward  with  the  fingers.  Use  as  little  flour  on  the  board  as  pos- 
sible as  a  soft  dough  makes  better  bread  than  a  stiff  dough.  The 
more  it  is  worked  the  finer  will  be  the  grain;  but  if  a  great  deal  of 
flour  is  worked  in  it  will  become  hard.  Knead  until  the  dough  is 
smooth  and  elastic  to  the  touch:  about  twenty  minutes  is  the 
usual  time:  about  three  minutes  in  the  patent  bread-mixer. 

221  ^ 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


Baking 

Bread  should  be  baked  in  a  hot  oven,  but  not  in  one  that  is  too 
hot,  as  it  should  continue  rising  for  the  first  fifteen  minutes  and  if 
a  hard  crust  is  too  quickly  formed  the  rising  is  rendered  difficult. 
The  crust  may  be  buttered  ten  minutes  before  the  bread  is  re- 
moved from  the  oven:  this  will  make  it  softer  and  more  palatable. 

The  best  pans  for  baking  are  made  of  Russia  iron  and  are  four 
inches  deep,  four  and  a  half  wide,  and  ten  long.  The  bread  is  done 
when  it  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan.  The  usual  time  allowed  is 
fifty  minutes. 

Biscuits  require  less  time,  but  more  heat.  They  should  be  baked 
in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

YEAST 

Yeast  is  a  tiny,  microscopic  plant  and  like  any  other  plant  it 
needs  light,  heat  and  moisture  for  its  growth.  The  temperature 
most  favorable  is  from  70°  to  75°  F.  If  colder  than  this,  its 
growth  may  be  retarded  altogether.  Above  90°  F.  the  conditions 
are  favorable  for  the  growth  of  lactic  acid  bacteria  and  the  bread 
"sours."  Sugar  feeds  the  yeast;  so  when  added  to  the  sponge  it 
hastens  the  growth.  The  starch  of  the  flour  is,  to  some  extent, 
converted  into  sugar  and  thereby  serves  the  same  purpose.  The 
soluble  carbohydrates  are  acted  upon  by  the  yeast  and  con- 
verted into  alcohol  and  carbon-dioxide.  The  carbon-dioxide  gas 
becomes  entangled  in  the  gluten,  and  by  expansion  when  heated, 
raises  the  bread. 

Compressed  yeast  is  commercially  made  from  grain  in  factories 
equipped  with  highly  specialized  and  complicated  machinery.  The 
grains  most  used  are  corn,  rye  and  barley  malt.  The  grain  is 
ground  in  a  mill,  mashed  with  water  and  the  mash,  cooked  and 
allowed  to  cool,  and  finally  fermented  with  yeast  of  a  previous  mak- 
ing. The  result  is  the  growth  and  multiplication  of  yeast  cells. 

When  the  fermenting  process  has  been  carried  to  the  proper 
stage,  the  yeast  is  separated  from  the  fluid  containing  it,  thoroughly 
washed  with  water,  filtered,  pressed,  cut  into  cakes  and  wrapped. 
Every  yeast  cake  contains  millions  of  tiny  yeast  plants. 

Baking  powder,  like  yeast,  is  a  leavening  agent  which  ^causes 
dough  to  rise  by  the  expansion  of  imprisoned  carbonic  acid  gas. 
The  two  principal,  ingredients  are  an  acid  and  an  alkali,  usually 
cream  of  tartar  and  bicarbonate  of  soda.  These,  when  mixed 
together  and  moistened,  react  on  each  other  and  form  gas  bubbles 
which  rise  through  the  mixture,  making  it  light  and  porous. 

222  L-L 


BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,   ETC. 


WHITE  BREAD 

(Quick  Method) 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  tablespoons  melted  lard 

1  quart  lukewarm  water  J  quarts  sifted  flour 

2  level  tablespoons  sugar  1  level  tablespoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  water;  add  lard  (or 
butter)  and  half  the  flour.  Beat  until  smooth;  then  add  balance 
of  the  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  handled,  and 
the  salt.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Place  in  greased  bowl; 
cover  and  set  aside  in  a  moderately  warm  place,  free  from  draft, 
until  light  —  about  two  hours.  Mold  into  loaves;  place  in  well- 
greased  bread  pans,  filling  them  half  full.  Cover  and  let  rise  one 
hour  or  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  forty  to  fifty  minutes. 

WHITE  BREAD 
(For  Use  Over  Night) 

l/2  cake  compressed  yeast  1  tablespoon  melted  lard 

1  quart  water  3  quarts  sifted  flour 

1  level  tablespoon  sugar  1  level  tablespoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  water,  which  should  be  luke- 
warm in  winter  and  cool  in  summer;  add  two  tablespoons  of  lard 
(or  butter)  and  half  the  flour.  Beat  until  smooth;  then  add  bal- 
ance of  the  flour,  or  enough  to  make  moderately  firm  dough,  and 
last,  the  salt.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Place  in  well- 
greased  bowl  and  cover;  set  aside  to  rise  over  night,  or  about  nine 
hours.  In  the  morning  mold  into  loaves.  Fill  well-greased  pans 
half  full;  cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  or  until  loaves  have  doubled 
in  bulk,  which  will  be  in  about  one  and  one  half  hours.  Bake  forty 
to  fifty  minutes. 

The  half  cake  of  yeast,  which  is  left  over,  can  be  kept  in  good 
condition  several  days  by  rewrapping  it  in  the  tinfoil  and  keep- 
ing it  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

WHITE  BREAD 
(Sponge  Method) 

V2  cake  compressed  yeast  4*/2  pints  sifted  flour 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

iy2  pints  lukewarm  water  1  level  tablespoon  lard  or  butter 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  one  pint  of  lukewarm  water, 
and  add  to  it  one  and  one  half  pints  of  sifted  flour,  or  sufficient 

223  *-L 


BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


to  made  an  ordinary  sponge.  Beat  well;  cover  and  set  aside  to 
rise  for  about  one  and  one  half  hours  in  a  warm  place.  When  well 
risen  add  to  it  the  half  pint  of  lukewarm  water,  lard  or  butter,  the 
remainder  of  the  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  moderately  firm  dough, 
and  last,  the  salt.  Knead  thoroughly;  place  in  greased  bowl; 
cover  and  let  rise  for  from  one  and  one  half  to  two  hours.  When 
light,  mold  into  loaves  and  place  in  well-greased  baking  pans; 
cover  and  let  rise  again  for  about  one  hour.  When  light,  bake 
forty  to  fifty  minutes,  reducing  the  heat  after  the  first  ten  minutes. 

This  recipe  makes  two  large  loaves. 

The  whole  process  takes  from  five  and  one  half  to  six  hours,  and 
the  recipe,  if  followed  closely,  will  produce  excellent  results. 

MILK  BREAD 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  3  quarts  sifted  flour 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  lard,  melted 

1  quart  milk,  scalded  and  cooled          l/2  tablespoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid;  add  one 
and  one  half  quarts  of  sifted  flour;  beat  until  smooth.  Cover  and 
set  to  rise  in  warm  place,  free  from  draft  for  about  one  and  one 
half  hours.  When  light,  add  lard  (or  butter),  rest  of  flour,  and 
salt.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic;  place  in  well-greased  bowl; 
cover;  let  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk  —  about  two  hours.  Mold 
into  loaves;  place  in  well-greased  bread  pans,  filling  them  half  full. 
Cover  and  let  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk  —  about  one  hour. 
Bake  forty  to  fifty  minutes. 

This  makes  three  one-and-one-half  pound  loaves. 

WHITE  BREAD   IN  BREAD-MIXER 

1  quart  boiled  water  or  milk  l/2  tablespoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  lard  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  tablespoon  sugar  3  quarts  flour 

Put  salt,  sugar  and  lard  in  the  bread-mixer;  pour  on  boiling 
water  or  scalded  milk  and  when  lukewarm  stir  in  the  yeast  cake 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Add  the  flour;  put  on  the  lid; 
turn  for  three  minutes  and  let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
turn  the  handle  a  few  times;  lift  the  dough  out  on  a  molding 
board;  divide  into  four  parts  and  shape  into  loaves.  Place  in 
greased  pans,  having  the  pans  only  half  full.  Cover  with  a  clean 
cloth;  let  rise  to  twice  their  bulk  and  bake  for  about  fifty  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

224  t-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


BAKING-POWDER  BREAD 

1  quart  flour  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt  V2  boiled  potato 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Milk  or  water  (about  1  pint) 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly;  rub  in  the  boiled  potato; 
add  liquid  to  make  a  stiff  batter  or  soft  dough.  Turn  into  a 
greased  bread  pan;  smooth  the  top  with  a  knife  dipped  in  melted 
butter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  an  hour.  When 
done  moisten  the  crust  slightly  with  cold  water  and  wrap  in  a 
clean  cloth  until  cold. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD 

1  cup  milk  l/4  teaspoon  sugar 

Little  boiling  water  1  tablespoon  corn  meal 

%  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  flour 

Flour  to  make  dough 

Into  the  milk  pour  enough  boiling  water  to  bring  it  to  blood 
heat  (about  90°  F.).  Do  not  have  it  too  hot  or  the  bread  will  not 
rise.  Add  the  other  ingredients;  beat  to  the  consistency  of  pan- 
cake batter  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  ferment.  If  set  in  the  early 
morning,  it  will  rise  at  noon.  Mix  the  same  as  other  bread;  put  in 
pans  at  once;  let  stand  till  light  and  bake  slowly. 

RICE  BREAD 

l/2  cup  cold  rice  1A  teaspoon  salt 

Vz  cup  white  Indian  meal  1  egg 

J/2  cup  wheat  flour  l/2  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1     teaspoon  baking  powder  l/2  cup  milk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly;  add  the  egg  beaten  with 
the  milk  and  melted  butter.  Pour  into  shallow  greased  tins  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GRAHAM   BREAD 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  level  tablespoons  lard 

4  level  tablespoons  brown  sugar  4  cups  graham  flour 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  1  cup  sifted  white  flour 

1  cup  lukewarm  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  (or  molasses)  in  lukewarm  liquid. 
Add  lard  (or  butter),  then  flour,  gradually,  and  last  the  salt. 

225  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES.  ETC. 


Knead  thoroughly,  being  sure  to  keep  the  dough  soft.  Cover  and 
set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  for  about  two  hours.  When 
double  in  bulk,  turn  out  on  kneading  board;  mold  into  loaves; 
place  in  well-greased  pans;  cover  and  set  to  rise  again  for  about 
one  hour,  or  until  light.  Bake  one  hour,  in  a  slower  oven  than  for 
white  bread. 

If  wanted  for  over  night,  use  one  half  cake  of  yeast  and  an  extra 
teaspoon  of  salt. 

OATMEAL  BREAD 

2  cups  boiling  water  %  cup  brown  sugar 

2  cups  rolled  oats  l/2  cup  lukewarm  water 
1  cake  compressed  yeast                       4  cups  sifted  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Pour  two  cups  of  boiling  water  over  the  oatmeal;  cover  and  let 
stand  until  cool.  Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  one  half  cup  of  luke- 
warm water  and  add  this  to  the  oatmeal  and  water.  Add  one  cup 
of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  an  ordinary  sponge;  beat  well;  cover 
and  set  aside  in  a  moderately  warm  place  to  rise  for  one  hour,  or 
until  light.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  —  about  three  cups  — 
and  the  salt.  Knead  well;  place  in  greased  bowl;  cover  and  let 
rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place  until  double  in  bulk  —  about  one 
and  one  half  hours.  Mold  into  loaves;  fill  well-greased  pans  half 
full;  cover  and  let  rise  again  about  one  hour.  Bake  forty-five 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

A  half  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  one  tablespoon  of  lard  or  butter 
may  be  added  if  desired. 

WHOLE-WHEAT  BREAD 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  ll/2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled 

3  level  tablespoons  brown  sugar  3  tablespoons  melted  lard 
iy2  cups  lukewarm  water  7l/2  cups  whole-wheat  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  liquid;  add  lard  or 
butter;  then  flour,  gradually,  as  whole  wheat  flour  absorbs  moisture 
slowly,  and  last  the  salt.  Knead  thoroughly,  being  sure  to  keep 
dough  soft;  place  in  well-greased  bowl,  cover  and  set  aside  in  warm 
place,  to  rise  for  about  two  hours.  When  double  in  bulk,  turn  out 
on  kneading  board.  Mold  into  loaves;  place  in  well-greased  pans; 
cover  and  set  to  rise  again  for  about  one  hour,  or  until  light.  Bake 
one  kour,  in  a  slower  oven  than  for  white  bread. 

226  I^L 


Courtesy  of  the  Fleischmann  Co. 

RAISED   WITH   COMPRESSED   YEAST 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


If  wanted  for  over  night,  use  one  half  cake  of  yeast  and  an  extra 
teaspoon  of  salt, 

RYE  BREAD 

(American) 

,  1  cake  compressed  yeast  5  cups  rye  flour 

I  1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled          ll/2  cups  sifted  white  flour 

2  cups  lukewarm  water  1  tablespoon  melted  lard 

,  1  tablespoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  lukewarm  liquid;  add  two  and  a  half  cups 
of  rye  flour  or  enough  to  make  a  sponge.  Beat  well;  cover  and  set 
aside  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  to  rise  about  two  hours. 
When  light,  add  white  flour,  lard  or  butter,  rest  of  rye  flour  to  make 
a  soft  dough,  and  last  the  salt.  Turn  on  a  board  and  knead,  or 
pound  it  five  minutes.  Place  in  greased  bowl;  cover  and  let  rise 
until  double  in  bulk — about  two  hours.  Turn  on  board  and  shape 
into  loaves;  place  in  floured  shallow  pans;  cover  and  let  rise  again 
until  light — about  one  hour.  Brush  with  white  of  egg  and  water, 
to  glaze.  With  sharp  knife  cut  lightly  three  strokes  diagonally 
across  top,  and  place  in  oven.  Bake  in  slower  oven  than  for  white 
bread.  Caraway  seed  may  be  used  if  desired. 

By  adding  one  half  cup  of  sour  dough,  left  from  previous  baking, 
an  acid  flavor  is  obtained,  which  is  considered  by  many  a  great 
improvement.  This  should  be  added  to  the  sponge. 

GLUTEN  BREAD 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  level  tablespoon  lard  or  butter 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled      3  cups  gluten  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  liquid;  add  lard  or 
butter,  then  flour,  gradually,  and  salt.  Knead  thoroughly  until 
smooth  and  elastic;  place  in  well-greased  bowl;  cover  and  set 
aside  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  to  rise  until  light,  which 
should  be  in  about  two  hours.  Mold  into  loaves;  place  in  greased 
pans,  filling  them  half  full.  Cover;  let  rise  again,  and  when 
double  in  bulk,  which  should  be  in  about  one  hour,  bake  in  moder« 
ate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

This  will  make  two  one-pound  loaves.  For  diet  use  all  water 
and  omit  shortening  and  sugar. 

227  L-I 


BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,   ETC. 


NUT  BREAD   No.  1 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  level  tablespoons  lard 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  y3  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  sugar  White  of  1  egg 

3  cups  sifted  flour  %  cup  chopped  walnuts 

y$  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  lukewarm 
milk;  add  one  and  one  fourth  cups  of  flour  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Cover  and  set  aside  in  warm  place  fifty  minutes,  or  until  light. 
,\dd  sugar  and  lard  (or  butter),  creamed,  white  of  egg,  beaten 
stiff,  nuts,  remainder  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  dough,  and  the 
salt.  Knead  well;  place  in  greased  bowl;  cover  and  set  aside  for 
about  two  and  one  half  hours  to  rise,  or  until  double  in  bulk.  Mold 
into  a  loaf  or  small  finger  rolls,  and  fill  well-greased  pans  half  full. 
Protect  from  draft  and  let  rise  until  light — about  one  hour. 

This  recipe  will  make  one  medium-sized  loaf,  or  one  dozen  rolls. 
The  loaf  should  bake  forty-five  minutes;  finger  rolls,  six  to  eight 
minutes. 

NUT  BREAD   No.  2 

1  egg  2l/2  cups  flour 

%  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  V4  pound  walnuts 

Beat  the  egg  with  the  sugar;  add  the  sifted  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt  alternately  with  the  milk;  last  add  the  butter,  melted,  and 
the  walnuts.  If  black  walnuts  are  used  do  not  add  the  butter. 
Bake  in  a  deep  pan  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  forty-five  minutes. 

CORN  BREAD 

iy2  cups  corn  meal  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

y2  cup  flour  y2  tablespoon  butter 

y2  tablespoon  sugar  iy4  cups  milk 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together;  add  milk,  beaten  egg  and 
butter.  Pour  into  a  shallow  buttered  tin  and  bake  about  half  an 
hour. 

CORN  BREAD  WITH  YEAST 

Follow  the  recipe  for  corn  muffins  with  yeast.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  well-greased,  shallow  pan,  instead  of  muffin  tins. 

228  I.-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC, 


CANADA  EGG  BREAD 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  3  eggs 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  butter,  warmed  but  not  melted, 
and  the  milk  and  beaten  eggs.  The  batter  will  be  stiff.  Bake  in 
greased  tins;  mark  into  squares;  break  and  serve  hot. 

RAISIN  BREAD 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  lukewarm  water  4  level  tablespoons  lard 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  %  cup  raisins 

6  cups  sifted  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  lukewarm 
liquid;  add  two  cups  of  flour,  the  lard  (or  butter)  and  sugar,  well 
creamed;  and  beat  until  smooth.  Cover  and  set  aside  to  rise  in  a 
warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  light  —  about  one  and  one  half 
hours.  Add  raisins  well-floured,  the  rest  of  the  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough,  and  last  the  salt.  Knead  lightly;  place  in  well-greased 
bowl;  cover  and  let  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk  —  about  one  and 
one  half  hours.  Mold  into  loaves;  fill  well-greased  pans  half  full, 
cover  and  let  rise  until  light  —  about  one  hour.  Glaze  with  egg 
diluted  with  water,  and  bake  forty-five  minutes* 

COCOA  BREAD 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  %  cup  sug&r 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  Vfe  cup  cocoa 
1  tablespoon  sugar  l/4  cup  butter 
51/2  cups  sifted  flour  2  eggs 

l/2  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  lukewarm 
milk;  add  three  cups  of  flour  and  beat  until  smooth.  Cover  and 
set  aside  to  rise  in  warm  place  until  light  —  about  one  and  one  half 
hours;  then  add  butter  and  sugar  creamed,  eggs  well  beaten, 
cocoa,  remainder  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  soft  dough,  and  salt. 
Knead  lightly;  place  in  greased  bowl;  cover  and  set  aside  in  warm 
place,  free  from  draft,  until  double  in  bulk  —  about  two  hours. 
Mold  into  loaves;  place  in  well-greased  bread  pans,  filling  them 
half  full.  Cover  and  let  rise  again  until  light—  about  one  hour, 
Bake  forty  to  forty-five  minutes. 

16  220  L-L 


BREAD.  HOT-CAKES;  ETC. 


The  recipe  makes  two  loaves.  Nuts  or  fruit  may  be  added  if 
desired.  The  bread  may  be  used  for  making  delicious  sandwiches. 

Buns  may  be  made  from  the  same  dough  and  decorated  with 
chocolate  frosting. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD   No.  1 

2  cups  rye  meal  V3  cup  molasses 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  sour  milk 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  ; 
add  the  sour  milk  and  molasses;  pour  into  a  buttered  mold  and 
steam  three  hours.  Brown  in  the  oven  twenty  minutes. 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  No.  2 

1  cup  corn  meal  V2  cup  sugar 

2  cups  graham  flour  V2  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  salt  iy2  teaspoons  soda 

2  cups  milk 

Mix  and  cook  the  same  as  Brown  Bread  No.  1. 


SCOTCH   SHORT  BREAD 

1  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

l/2  cup  powdered  sugar 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  flour  and  sugar;  knead  all  together 
thoroughly  with  the  hands;  roll  out  about  one  inch  in  thickness 
and  cut  in  oblong  cakes.  Bake  about  half  an  hour,  laying  the 
bread  on  brown  paper  in  an  unbuttered  pan. 


COARSE  LOAF 

l/2  cup  New  Orleans  molasses  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

l/2  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  nuts  or  raisins 

V2  cup  corn  meal  1  pint  sour  milk 

2  cups  graham  flour  2  teaspoons  soda 

iy2  cups  white  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together,  adding  the  soda  dissolved  in 
the  sour  milk  last.  Pour  into  a  greased  baking  pan  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven  about  one  hour. 

230  L-L 


gLminiydof°Foaur  -  BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,   ETC. 

CINNAMON  BUN 

2  tablespoons  batter  Milk  to  make  soft  dough 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Butter 

2  eggs  Sugar 

1  pint  flour  Cinnamon 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  Currants 

Syrup  molasses 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs;  then  the 
baking  powder  and  flour  which  have  been  sifted  together,  alter- 
nately with  the  milk.  Have  the  dough  as  soft  as  it  is  possible  to 
roll  out.  Place  it  on  a  pie  board  well  dusted  with  flour;  roll  out 
about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  in  Lliickness;  spread  thickly  with 
sugar,  cinnamon,  currants  and  syrup  molasses;  then  carefully  roll 
the  dough  into  one  long  roll;  cut  into  buns  about  one  inch  high  and 
pla.e  them  rather  closely  in  a  greased  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

CINNAMON  CAKE 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  V2  cup  light  brown  sugar 

1/2  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  2  level  tablespoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  egg 

2  cups  sifted  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
milk.  Add  three  fourths  cup  of  flour,  to  make  a  sponge.  Beat 
well;  cover  and  let  rise  forty -five  minutes  in  a  moderately  warm 
place.  Add  butter  and  sugar  creamed,  egg  well  beaten,  about  one 
and  one  fourth  cups  of  flour,  or  sufficient  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and 
the  salt.  Knead  lightly;  place  in  greased  bowl;  cover  and  let  rise 
in  a  warm  place  about  two  hours,  or  until  double  in  bulk.  Roll 
one  half  inch  thick;  place  in  well-greased  pan  and  let  rise  until 
light.  Cut  across  top  with  sharp  knife;  brush  with  egg;  sprinkle 
liberally  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven. 

DOUGHNUTS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  Vz  CUP  sugar 

ll/4  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled        3  level  tablespoons  butter 
1  tablespoon  sugar  V2  teaspoon  mace 

41/2  cups  sifted  flour  2  eggs 

l/4  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  lukewarm 
liquid;  add  half  of  the  flour  and  beat  well.  Cover  and  set  aside 
to  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  about  one  hour,  or  until  bubbles  burst. 

231:  L-L 


BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,   ETC. 


on  top.  Add  to  this  the  butter  and  sugar  creamed;  mace,  eggs 
well  beaten,  the  remainder  of  the  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and 
last  the  salt.  Knead  lightly;  place  in  well-greased  bowl;  cover 
and  allow  to  rise  again  in  warm  place  for  about  one  and  a  half  hours. 
When  light,  turn  on  floured  board;  roll  to  about  one  fourth  inch  in 
thickness.  Cut  with  small  doughnut  cutter;  cover  and  let  rise 
again,  on  floured  board  or  paper,  in  warm  place  until  light  —  about 
forty-five  minutes.  Drop  into  deep,  hot  fat  with  side  uppermost 
which  has  been  next  to  board.  When  a  film  of  smoke  begins  to 
rise  from  fat,  it  will  be  found  a  good  temperature  to  cook  dough- 
nuts. 

Doughnuts  made  by  this  method  do  not  absorb  the  fat,  for  the 
reason  that  they  rise  before  and  not  after  they  are  put  into  the 
grease. 

DUTCH  CAKE 

1  pound  bread  dough  1  egg 

l/2  pound  sugar  1/2  pound  seeded  raisins 

l/2  pound  butter  Cinnamon  and  nutmeg 

Mix  the  sugar,  butter  and  beaten  egg  into  bread  dough;  when 
thoroughly  incorporated  flavor  with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg;  and 
add  the  fruit.  Put  into  a  greased  pan  and  let  rise  for  an  hour  or 
more;  then  bake  slowly. 

BOHEMIAN  HOUSKA 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  Vs  cup  melted  butter 
1/4  cup  lukewarm  water                          i/2  cup  citron,  cut  fine 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  V2  cup  raisins 

*/2  cup  sugar  1/2  cup  chopped  almonds 

1  egg  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

7y2  cups  sifted  flour 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  lukewarm 
liquid;  add  egg  well  beaten,  balance  of  sugar  and  butter  creamed, 
and  two  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Beat  until 
smooth;  cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  about  one  hour.  Add 
almonds,  citron  and  raisins,  well  floured,  the  rest  of  the  flour,  or 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and  last  the  salt.  Knead  well; 
place  in  greased  bowl;  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place,  free 
from  draft,  to  rise  until  double  in  bulk,  about  one  and  a  half  hours. 
Divide  into  three  parts  ;  make  three  braids  ;  place  in  well-greased, 
shallow  pan,  one  on  top  of  the  other  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
forty-five  minutes.  While  hot  ice  with  plain  frosting. 

232  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,   ETC. 


CURRANT  TEA  RING 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast  l/2  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  7  cups  sifted  flour 

1  cup  lukewarm  water  3  eggs 

1  tablespoon  sugar  ]/4  teaspoon  salt 

6  level  tablespoons  lard  or  butter         V4  teaspoon  mace 
Brown  sugar,  currants  and  cinnamon 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
liquid.  Add  three  cups  of  flour  and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  lard 
or  butter  and  sugar,  thoroughly  creamed,  and  eggs  beaten  until 
light,  the  remainder  of  the  flour  gradually,  keeping  dough  soft, 
and  last,  the  salt  and  mace.  -Turn  on  board;  knead  lightly;  place 
in  greased  bowl;  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for 
about  two  hours  or  until  the  dough  has  doubled  in  bulk.  Roll  out 
in  an  oblong  piece,  one  fourth  inch  thick;  brush  with  melted  but- 
ter; sprinkle  with  brown  sugar,  currants  and  cinnamon.  Roll  up 
lengthwise  ana  place  in  a  circle  on  a  large,  shallow,  greased  pan  or 
baking  sheet.  With  scissors  cut  three  fourth  inch  slices,  almost 
through.  Turn  each  slice  partly  on  its  side,  pointing  away  from 
center.  This  should  give  the  effect  of  a  many-pointed  star,  and 
show  the  different  layers  with  the  filling.  Cover  and  let  rise  one 
hour,  or  until  light,  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes.  Just  before 
putting  in  the  oven,  glaze  with  egg,  diluted  with  milk.  Ice  while 
hot  with  olain  frosting. 


APPLE   CAKE 

ll/2  cakes  compressed  yeast  V2  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  sugar  3l/2  cups  sifted  flour 

l/4  cup  butter  V4  teaspoon  salt 
5  apples 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  lukewarm 
milk;  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  to  make  a  sponge,  and  beat 
until  smooth.  Cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place  until  light — 
about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Have  sugar  and  butter  well- 
creamed;  add  it  to  sponge.  Then  add  eggs  well-beaten,  rest  of 
flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and  salt.  Knead  lightly. 
Place  in  well-greased  bowl.  Cover  and  set  aside  to  rise — about 
two  hours.  Roll  half  an  inch  thick;  place  in  two  well-greased, 
shallow  pans;  brush  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Cut 

233  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


apples  in  eighths  and  press  into  the  dough,  sharp  edge  downward  ; 
sprinkle  with  cinnamon;  cover  and  let  rise  about  one-half  hour. 
Bake  twenty  minutes.  Keep  covered  with  pan  first  ten  minutes, 
in  order  that  the  apples  may  be  thoroughly  cooked, 

COFFEE  CAKE 

1V2  cakes  compressed  yeast  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  i/2  CUP  butter 

1  tablespoon  sugar  3  eggs 

3  cups  sifted  flour  U/2  cups  mixed  fruit 

l/4  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
milk;  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  and  beat  well.  Cover  and 
set  aside,  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  one  hour  on  until  light.  Add 
to  this  the  butter  and  sugar  creamed,  the  fruit  —  citron,  raisins  and 
currants  in  equal  parts  —  which  has  been  floured,  the  balance  of  the 
flour  or  enough  to  make  a  good  cake  batter,  the  salt,  and  eggs  well 
beaten.  Beat  for  ten  minutes;  pour  into  well-buttered  molds, 
filling  them  about  half  full;  cover  and  let  rise  until  molds  are 
nearly  full;  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  made  into  two  cakes, 
they  should  bake  forty-five  minutes;  one  large  cake  should  bake 
one  hour. 


BRIOCHE 


1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  cup  butter 

l/2  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  4  cups  sifted  flour 

2  tablespoons  sugar  8  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
milk;  add  one  cup  of  flour  to  make  sponge.  Beat  well;  cover  and 
set  to  rise  in  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  light — about  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.  To  the  rest  of  the  flour  add  one  tablespoon 
of  sugar,  butter  softened,  four  eggs  and  salt.  Beat  all  in  well ;  add 
sponge  and  beat  again  thoroughly;  add  the  other  four  eggs,  un- 
beaten, one  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly.  Cover  and  let  rise  until 
light — about  four  hours,  and  beat  again.  Chill  in  the  refrigerator 
over  night.  In  the  morning,  shape  by  rolling  under  hand  into  long 
strips  about  twenty-seven  inches  long  and  three  fourths  inch  thick, 
bringing  ends  together,  and  twist  like  a  rope.  Form  into  rings; 

234  L-L 


FRESH  FROM  THE  OVEN 

Coffee  Loaf  Cakt  English  Scones 


Sally  Lunns 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


place  on  well-buttered  pans  to  rise.  When  double  in  size,  glaze 
with  white  of  egg  diluted  with  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
fifteen  minutes.  Ice  while  hot,  with  plain  frosting.  Spread  with 
almonds 

MORAVIAN  CAKE 

1  pint  bread  dough  1^2  cups  sugar 

1/2  cup  butter  3  eggs 

Sugar  and  cinnamon 

Beat  the  butter  into  the  bread  dough;  add  the  sugar  and  eggs 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Pour  into  buttered  pans;  let  rise  for  one 
hour;  sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven, 

BREAD  RUSK 

1  pint  bread  dough  Butter  size  of  egg 

3/4  cup  sugar  Grated  nutmeg 

Spread  the  bread  dough  open;  work  the  other  ingredients  into 
it;  roll  out;  cut  in  cubes;  put  them  in  buttered  pans  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  until  very  light.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CHILDREN'S  RUSK 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  V£  cup  butter 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  1  cup  sugar 
1  tablespoon  sugar  1  egg 

6  cups  sifted  flour  y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  currants 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
milk;  add  to  it  half  the  flour,  to  make  an  ordinary  sponge.  Beat 
well ;  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  for  about  an  hour. 
When  light,  add  to  it  the  butter  and  sugar  creamed,  egg  well 
beaten,  the  currants,  which  have  previously  been  washed  and 
floured,  and  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  or  sufficient  to  make  a  soft 
dough;  last  add  the  salt.  Knead  lightly;  place  in  greased  bowl; 
cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  to  rise  for 
about  two  or  two  and  a  half  hours.  When  well  risen,  turn  out  on 
a  kneading  board  and  mold  into  rolls.  Place  in  well-greased  pans; 
cover  and  let  rise  again  for  about  one  hour,  or  until  double  in  bulk. 
Brush  with  egg  diluted  with  milk.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Upon  removing  from  oven  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar. 

235  L-L 


BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,   ETC. 


BUNS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  l/4  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  %  cup  butter 

1  tablespoon  sugar  3  cups  sifted  flour 

V2  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
milk;  add  one  and  one  half  cups  of  flour.  Beat  until  smooth;  then 
add  butter  and  sugar  creamed,  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  salt. 
Knead  lightly,  keeping  dough  soft;  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm 
place,  free  from  draft,  to  rise  until  double  in  bulk  —  about  one  and 
a  half  hours.  Mold  into  small,  round  buns  ;  place  in  well-greased 
pans,  one  inch  apart.  Cover;  set  aside  to  rise  until  light  —  about 
one  hour.  Brush  with  egg,  diluted  with  water;  bake  twenty 
minutes.  Just  before  removing  from  the  oven,  brush  with  sugar 
moistened  with  a  little  water. 

SWEET  FRENCH  BUNS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  3  level  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  1  egg 

Vi  cup  lukewarm  water  V2  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

1  tablespoon  sugar  4  cups  sifted  flour 
14  cup  sugar  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
liquid.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  an  ordinary  sponge  —  about 
one  and  one  half  cups.  Beat  until  perfectly  smooth;  cover  and 
set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  fifty  minutes,  or  until  light. 
Add  sugar  and  butter  creamed,  egg  beaten,  lemon  extract  and 
about  two  and  one  half  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Add  salt  with  the  last  of  the  flour.  Knead  until  smooth 
and  elastic;  place  in  greased  bowl;  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  until  double  in  bulk  —  about  one  hour.  Turn  out  on 
board  and  shape  as  clover-leaf  rolls,  or  any  fancy  twist.  Let  rise 
until  light,  about  one  hour.  Bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

ENGLISH  BATH  BUNS 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast  4  cups  sifted  flour 
*/2  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  Vz  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  5  tablespoons  sugar 

V2  cup  butter,  melted  4  eggs 

1  cup  almonds,  chopped 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
milk.  Add  butter,  eggs  unbeaten,  flour  gradually,  and  the  salt, 

236  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


beating  thoroughly.  This  mixture  should  be  thick,  but  not  stiff 
enough  to  handle.  Cover  and  let  rise  in  warm  place  one  and  one 
half  hours,  or  until  light.  Sprinkle  balance  of  sugar  and  almonds 
over  top;  mix  very  lightly  and  drop  into  well-greased  muffin  pans. 
Cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  which  should  be  in  about  one  half 
hour.  Bake  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
These  buns  should  be  rough  in  appearance. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  V4  cup  butter 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  V4  cup  raisins  or  currants 

1  tablespoon  sugar  3%  cups  sifted  flour 
V3  cup  sugar  1  egg 

*4  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
milk.  Add  one  and  one  half  cups  of  the  flour,  to  make  a  sponge. 
Beat  until  smooth;  cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  in  a  warm  place, 
free  from  draft  —  about  one  hour.  Add  butter  and  sugar  creamed, 
egg  well  beaten,  raisins  or  currants,  which  have  been  floured,  rest 
of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and  salt.  Turn  on  board  ; 
knead  lightly;  place  in  greased  bowl.  Cover  and  set  aside  in  a 
warm  place,  until  double  in  bulk,  which  should  be  in  about  two 
hours.  Shape  with  hand  into  medium-sized  round  buns;  place  in 
well-greased  pans  about  two  inches  apart.  Cover  and  let  rise 
again  —  about  one  hour,  or  until  light.  Glaze  with  egg  diluted 
with  water;  with  sharp  knife  cut  a  cross  on  top  of  each;  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Just  before  removing  from  oven,  brush  with 
sugar  moistened  with  water.  While  hot,  fill  cross  with  plain  frost- 
ing. 

OVEN   SCONES 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast  1  cup  raisins 
2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  l/2  cup  citron 
1  tablespoon  sugar                                 1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  6l/2  cups  sifted  flour 

Va  cup  of  lard  or  butter  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
milk;  add  three  cups  of  flour  and  beat  well.  Cover  and  let  rise  in 
a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  light  —  about  one  hour.  Then 
add  butter  and  sugar  creamed,  the  egg  well  beaten,  fruit  well 
floured,  balance  of  flour,  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and  the  salt.  Turn 

237  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


on  board;  knead  lightly;  form  into  twelve  round  cakes;  cover 
and  allow  them  to  rise  fifteen  minutes.  Then  roll  one  fourth  inch 
thick;  cut  across  each  way  nearly  through,  making  an  impression 
of  four  cakes.  Place  in  well-greased  pans;  let  rise  about  one  hour, 
or  until  double  in  size.  Then  brush  with  egg  diluted  with  water. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


ENGLISH  SCONES 

3/4  pound  flour  %  cup  currants 

3  ounces  sugar  1  egg 

2  ounces  lard  V2  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  sugar  and  lard  to  a  cream;  add  the  egg,  then  the  milk 
and  flour  sifted  with  the  taking  powder.  Have  the  currants  well 
washed  and  drained  and  mix  them  in  before  all  the  flour  is  added. 
Make  a  soft  dough;  roll  out  and  cut  like  tea  biscuits.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

TEA  BISCUIT 

2  cups  flour  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  tablespoon  lard 

Milk  or  water  to  make  soft  dough 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  in  a  bowl;  rub  in  the  lard  with  the  tips 
of  the  fingers ;  add  milk  to  make  a  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  roll 
out.  Roll  one  half  inch  thick;  cut  with  a  round  cutter  and  bake  in 
greased  tins. 

TEA  ROLLS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1/2  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  3  cups  sifted  flour 

l/2  cup  lukewarm  water  2  tablespoons  melted  lard 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid.  Add  lard 
(or  butter)  and  half  of  the  flour;  beat  until  smooth;  add  rest  of 
flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  moderately  firm  dough,  and  the  salt. 
Knead  thoroughly;  roll  out  and  shape  as  Parker-House  rolls. 
Place  in  well-greased,  shallow  baking  pans;  cover  and  set  to  rise 
in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  for  about  two  hours.  When  light, 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes. 

238  L-L 


BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


LUNCH  ROLLS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4  cups  sifted  flour 

ll/4  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  sugar  2  level  tablespoons  lard 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  milk;  add  lard 
(or  butter)  and  two  cups  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly;  then  add 
egg  well  beaten,  balance  of  flour  gradually,  and  salt.  When  all  of 
the  flour  is  added,  or  enough  to  make  a  moderately  soft  dough, 
turn  on  board  and  knead  lightly  and  thoroughly,  using  as  little 
flour  in  the  kneading  as  possible,  keeping  dough  soft.  Place  in 
well-greased  bowl.  Cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place,  free  from 
draft,  to  rise  about  two  hours.  When  light,  form  into  small  bis- 
cuits, the  size  of  a  walnut.  Place  one  inch  apart,  in  shallow  pans, 
well  greased.  Let  rise  until  double  in  bulk  —  about  half  an  hour. 
Brush  with  egg  and  milk,  and  bake  ten  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

PARKER-HOUSE  ROLLS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4  tablespoons  melted  lard  or  butter 

1  pint  milk,  scalded  and  cooled         3  pints  sifted  flour 

2  level  tablespoons  sugar  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  milk;  add  lard 
or  butter  and  half  the  flour.  Beat  until  perfectly  smooth;  cover 
and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  one  hour,  or  until  light.  Then  add 
remainder  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  dough,  and  the  salt. 
Knead  well;  place  in  greased  bowl;  cover  and  let  rise  in  a  warm 
place  for  about  one  and  a  half  hours,  or  until  double  in  bulk.  Roll 
out  one  fourth  inch  thick;  brush  over  lightly  with  butter;  cut 
with  two-inch  biscuit-cutter;  crease  through  center  heavily  with 
dull  edge  of  knife,  and  fold  over  in  pocket-book  shape.  Place  in 
well-greased,  shallow  pans,  one  inch  apart.  Cover  and  let  rise 
until  light  —  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Bake  ten  minutes 
in  hot  oven.. 

DINNER  ROLLS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  White  of  1  egg 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled         3  cups  sifted  flour 
1  level  tablespoon  sugar  2  level  tablespoons  lard  or  butter 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  milk;  add  white 
of  egg,  beaten  until  stiff,  the  flour  gradually,  the  lard  or  butter,  and 

239  1^1. 


BREAD.   HOT-CAKES,   ETC. 


iast,  the  salt,  keeping  the  dough  soft.  Knead  lightly,  using  as 
little  flour  in  kneading  as  possible.  Place  in  a  well-greased  bowl; 
cover  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  double 
in  bulk  —  about  two  hours.  Mold  into  rolls  the  size  of  walnuts; 
place  in  well-greased  pans;  protect  from  draft,  and  let  rise  one 
half  hour,  or  until  light.  Glaze  with  white  of  egg.  diluted  with 
water.  Bake  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS  No.  1 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  egg 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  1  cup  sifted  white  flour 
4  tablespoons  molasses  lJ/2  cups  graham  flour 
4  tablespoons  melted  lard  1  teaspoon  salt 

3/4  CUP  chopped  nuts 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  (or  molasses)  in  the  lukewarm  milk  ; 
add  lard  (or  butter)  and  egg  well  beaten,  then  the  flour  gradually, 
salt  and  nuts,  beating  all  the  while.  Beat  until  perfectly  smooth; 
cover  and  set  to  rise  in  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  light  — 
about  one  and  a  half  hours.  Have  muffin  pans  well  greased  and 
fill  about  two-  thirds  full.  Cover  and  let  rise  to  top  of  pans  —  about 
half  an  hour,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS  No.  2 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Egg  Muffins,  using  half  graham  and  half 
white  flour. 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  level  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  4  tablespoons  melted  lard 

1  cup  lukewarm  water  0  cups  sifted  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid;  add  lard 
(or  butter),  and  three  cups  of  flour.  Beat  until  smooth;  add  rest 
of  Hour,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and  last,  the  salt.  Knead 
until  smooth  and  elastic-;  place  in  well-greased  bowl;  cover  and  set 
aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  double  in  bulk,  which  should 
be  in  about  two  hours,  form  with  hand  in  twelve  large,  round  bis- 
cuits. Cover  and  set  aside  for  about  one  half  hour.  Then,  with 
rolling  pin,  roll  to  about  one  fourth  inch  in  thickness,  keeping  them 
round.  Have  ungreased  griddle  hot  and  bake  ten  minutes.  Brown 
on  both  sides.  As  they  brown,  move  to  cooler  part  of  stove,  where 

240  L-I. 


BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,   ETC. 


they  will  bake  more  slowly,  keeping  them  warm  in  the  oven  until 
all  are  baked.  They  can  be  reheated  in  this  way  or  split  and 
toasted  on  the  griddle.  These  muffins  are  delicious  served  hot 
with  plenty  of  butter. 

OATMEAL  MUFFINS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  cup  hot  milk 
\4  cup  lukewarm  water                          1  cup  rolled  oats 

3  tablespoons  sugar  V2  cup  whole  wheat  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  l/2  cup  sifted  white  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  the  oats  and  butter  in  a  cup  of  milk  one  minute.  Let  stand 
until  lukewarm.  Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  one  fourth  cup 
of  lukewarm  water,  and  combine  the  two  mixtures.  Add  flour  and 
salt  and  beat  well.  The  batter  should  be  thick  enough  to  drop 
heavily  from  the  spoon.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  about  one 
hour,  in  a  moderately  warm  place.  Fill  well-greased  muffin  pans 
two  thirds  full;  let  rise  about  forty  minutes;  bake  twenty  -five 
minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

SALLY  LUNN 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  tablespoon  sugar  2  eggs 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  4  cups  sifted  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  lukewarm 
milk.  Add  butter,  then  flour  gradually,  eggs  well  beaten,  and  last, 
the  salt.  Beat  until  perfectly  smooth  ;  pour  into  well-greased  pans  ; 
cover  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  double  in 
bulk  —  about  one  and  one  half  hours.  Sprinkle  granulated  sugar 
over  the  top  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  hot; 
break  apart  with  fork. 

This  recipe  will  fill  two  medium-sized  cake  panSo 

WHEAT  MUFFINS 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  eggs 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  2  tablespoons  melted  lard 
l/4  cup  lukewarm  water  2  cups  sifted  flour 

2  level  tablespoons  sugar  y2  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid;  add  the 
lard  (or  butter),  eggs  beaten  until  light,  and  flour  to  make  a 

241  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC, 


moderately  stiff  batter;  then  add  the  salt  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place  for  about  one  hour.  When 
lisen,  fill  well-greased  muffin  tins  half  full;  cover  and  let  rise 
again  for  about  half  an  hour.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven,  and  serve  at  once. 

CORN  MUFFINS  WITH  YEAST 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  2y2  cups  corn  meal 

2  level  tablespoons  brown  sugar  1  cup  sifted  white  flour 

4  level  tablespoons  lard  or  butter          1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  milk.  Add  lard 
or  butter,  cornmeal,  flour,  eggs  and  salt.  Beat  well.  Fill  well- 
greased  muffin  pans  two-thirds  full.  Set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place, 
free  from  draft,  until  light  —  about  one  and  one  half  hours.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

If  prepared  over  night  use  only  one  fourth  cake  of  yeast,  and 
an  extra  half  teaspoon  of  salt. 

CORN  MUFFINS  No.  1 

1  cup  white  flour  %  teaspoon  soda 

l/2  cup  corn  meal  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  cup  sour  milk 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  egg,  beaten  into  the  milk,  and 
the  melted  butter.  Beat  thoroughly  and  bake  in  well-greased  tins. 

CORN  MUFFINS  No.  2 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Egg  Muffins  using  half  corn  meal  and  half 
white  flour. 

RICE  MUFFINS 

1  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  butter 
V4  teaspoon  salt  Vfc  CUP  boiled  rice 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  l/z  cup  milk 

1  egg 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients;  rub  in  the  butter  lightly;  stir  in  the 
rice,  then  the  beaten  egg  and  milk.  Pour  into  greased  gem  pans, 
filling  them  only  half  full,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
twenty  minutes. 

242  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


EGG  MUFFINS 

2  cups  flour  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  egg 

1  scant  cup  milk 

Rub  the  butter  in  the  flour;  add  the  dry  ingredients  and  mix 
well.  Beat  the  egg;  put  it  in  a  tin  measuring  cup  and  fill  up  the 
cup  with  milk.  Stir  this  into  the  flour  and  when  thoroughly  mixed, 
fill  buttered  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  golden  brown. 
The  batter  is  very  stiff  and  the  top  of  the  muffins  when  baked 
should  be  rough. 

PERFECT  CREAM  WAFERS 

2  cups  flour  l/4  cup  sugar 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder                   Pinch  of  salt 

Cream 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly  and  moisten  them  with 
cream.  Add  just  enough  cream  to  make  the  dough  soft  enough  to 
roll.  If  too  much  is  added  the  wafers  will  not  be  crisp.  Roll  the 
dough  very  thin;  cut  into  squares  and  bake  until  lightly  browned. 

GRAHAM  WAFERS 

Follow  the  recipe  for  cream  wafers,  using  half  graham  flour  and 
half  white. 

SOUR-CREAM  BISCUIT 

1  cup  sour  cream  2l/2  cups  sifted  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  soda  1  teaspoon  salt 

With  a  knife  stir  the  cream  into  the  sifted  flour,  enough  to  make 
a  very  soft  dough.  Roll  thin;  cut  into  rounds  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven. 

DROP  BISCUIT 

2  cups  flour  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  tablespoon  lard 

Milk  to  make  stiff  batter 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  rub  in  the  lard;  add  milk  to  make  a 
mixture  that  may  be  dropped  from  a  spoon  without  spreading. 
Drop  on  a  buttered  pan  half  an  inch  apart  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
eight  or  ten  minutes. 

243  I^L 


BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,   ETC. *!£!£%&£ 

SOUR-MILK  BISCUIT 

2  cups  flour  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  soda  1  tablespoon  lard 

Sour  milk 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients;  rub  in  the  lard;  stir  in  with  a 
knife  enough  sour  milk  to  make  a  very  soft  dough.  Roll  one  half 
inch  thick;  cut  in  small  rounds  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about 
twenty  minutes. 

SCOTCH  OAT  CAKE 

1  cup  oat  flour  y4  teaspoon  salt 

Flour  to  make  stiff  dough 

The  oatmeal  must  be  finely  ground  and  the  dough  very  stiff. 
Roll  out  on  a  floured  board  to  one  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness 
and  bake  the  sheet  in  a  very  slow  oven  until  dry  and  hard  but  not 
brown.  Break  into  irregular  pieces. 

POP-OVERS 

2  eggs  ll/2  cups  flour 

1  */2  cups  milk  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  eggs  together;  stir  in  the  milk;  add  gradually  the 
sifted  flour  and  salt;  beat  for  five  minutes  and  strain  through  a 
sieve.  Butter  gem  pans  and  set  them  in  a  quick  oven  to  heat. 
When  hot  fill  each  pan  about  one  third  full  of  batter;  return  to  the 
oven  and  bake  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  at  once. 

GLUTEN   GEMS 

2  eggs  iy2  cups  gluten  flour 

1  cup  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs;  add  the  milk;  then  the  flour  and 
baking  powder;  beat  well;  stir  in  the  whites  and  bake  in  hot  but- 
tered gem  pans  about  twenty  minutes. 

GRAHAM  PUFFS 

2  cups  graham  flour  l/2  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  sugar                                     2  cups  milk 

3  eggs 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  milk,  then  the  eggs  beaten 
until  very  light;  beat  for  three  minutes;  turn  into  hot  buttered 
gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  half  an  hour. 

244  M. 


BREAD,   HOT-CAKES,   ETC. 


ZWIEBACK 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  eggs 

1/2  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  V4  cup  melted  lard 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2%  cups  sifted  flour 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  milk.  Add  three 
fourths  ol'  a  cup  of  Hour  and  beat  thoroughly.  Cover  and  set  aside 
in  a  moderately  warm  place  to  rise  for  fifty  minutes.  Add  lard  (or 
butter),  eggs  well  beaten,  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  —  about 
two  cups  —  and  salt.  Knead;  shape  into  two  rolls  one  and  one  half 
inches  thick,  and  fifteen  inches  long.  Protect  from  draft  and  let 
rise  until  light,  which  should  be  in  about  one  and  one  half  hours. 
Bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  When  cool  cut  diagonally 
into  half-inch  slices.  Place  on  baking  sheet  and  brown  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

WAFFLES  WITH  YEAST 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  tablespoon  melted  lard  or  butter 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled    2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  sugar  2i/2  cups  sifted  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid;  add  lard 
or  butter,  flour,  salt,  and  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  thoroughly  until 
batter  is  smooth;  cover  and  set  aside  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  free 
from  draft,  for  about  one  hour.  When  light,  stir  well.  Have 
waffle  iron  hot  and  well  greased;  fill  the  cool  side.  Brown  on 
one  side;  turn  the  iron  and  brown  on  the  other  side.  If  the  batter 
is  too  thick,  the  waffle  will  be  tough. 

If  wanted  for  over  night,  use  one  fourth  cake  of  yeast  and  an 
extra  half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

ONE-EGG  WAFFLES 

iy2  cups  flour  !3/4  cups  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

14  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  milk  slowly;  then  the  egg, 
well  beaten,  and  the  melted  butter.  Beat  the  batter  for  several 
minutes;  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  hot  buttered  waffle  iron,  putting 
one  tablespoonful  in  each  section  of  the  iron.  Bake  and  turn, 
browning  both  sides  carefully;  remove  from  the  iron;  pile  one  on 
top  the  other  and  serve  at  once. 

17  245 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


THREE-EGG  WAFFLES 

2  cups  flour  ll/4  cups  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  3  eggs 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
beaten  and  stirred  into  the  milk;  then  add  the  melted  butter  and 
fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  and  serve  as  directed  under 
One-Egg  Waffles. 

BREAD  STICKS 

Take  rusk  or  bread  dough  —  rusk  is  better  —  and  when  light  cut 
pieces  from  the  side  and  roll  under  the  hands  to  the  length  of  the 
pan  and  the  thickness  of  a  lead  pencil.  Let  rise  until  light;  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  and  when  nearly  done  glaze  with  beaten  egg. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES 

All  batter  cakes  are  better  baked  on  an  ungreased  griddle,  as 
they  rise  and  keep  their  shape,  and  do  not  follow  the  grease.  You 
will  be  rid  of  the  disagreeable  smoke  and  the  odor  of  burning  fat. 
Your  griddle  need  not  necessarily  be  of  soapstone.  If  you  have 
an  old  griddle  and  clean  it  thoroughly,  being  sure  to  remove  all 
burned  fat  or  batter,  it  can  be  used  in  this  way. 

OATMEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  ll/2  CUPS  corn  meal 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  1  cup  sifted  flour 
2  level  tablespoons  brown  sugar           2  eggs 

l/2  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  (or  molasses)  in  the  lukewarm 
milk;  add  flour,  eggs  well  beaten,  corn  meal,  salt,  and  beat  until 
smooth.  Cover  and  set  aside  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  aboir 
one  hour,  or  until  light.  Stir  well  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

If  prepared  over  night,  use  one  fourth  cake  of  yeast  and  an  extra 
half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

WHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

J  cake  compressed  yeast  2  tablespoons  melted  lard 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  2  cups  sifted  flour 

1  cup  lukewarm  water  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

2  level  tablespoons  brown  sugar  2  eggs 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid.  Add  lard 
(or  butter),  then  flour  gradually,  the  eggs  well  beaten,  and  salt. 

246  V~L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES.  ETC. 


Beat  thoroughly  until  batter  is  smooth;  cover  and  set  aside  for 
about  one  hour,  in  a  warm  place  free  from  draft,  to  rise.  When 
light,  stir  well  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

If  prepared  over  night,  use  one  fourth  cake  of  yeast  and  an  extra 
half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

GRIDDLE   CAKES  No.    1 

2  cups  flour  1  or  2  eggs 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  Milk  (about  P/2  cups) 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

Mix  arid  sift  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  milk  and  beaten  eggs; 
beat  thoroughly;  add  melted  butter  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a 
hot  griddle.  Serve  with  butter  and  maple  syrup. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES  No.  2 

2  cups  flour  2  eggs 

V2  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

2  teaspoons  soda  Sour  milk  (about  2  cups) 

Mix  and  bake  as  directed  for  Griddle  Cakes  No.  1.  One  egg 
may  be  used  instead  of  two,  but  more  beating  will  be  necessary. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES   No.  3 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  4  level  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

1  cup  lukewarm  water  4  tablespoons  melted  lard 

ll/4  cups  milk,  scalded  and  cooled        1  teaspoon  salt 
2l/2  cups  sifted  flour 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid;  add  lard 
(or  butter),  flour  gradually,  and  salt.  Beat  thoroughly;  cover  and 
set  aside  to  rise  for  about  one  hour,  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft. 
When  light,  stir  well  and  bake  on  hot  griddle. 

If  wanted  for  over  night,  use  one  fourth  cake  of  yeast  and  an 
extra  half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES  No.  1 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  level  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

2  cups  lukewarm  water  2  cups  buckwheat  flour 
1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled         1  cup  sifted  white  flour 

ll/2  teaspoons  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid;  add  buck- 
wheat and  white  flour  gradually,  and  salt.  Beat  until  smooth; 

247  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. Fa*Xn% 

cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  to  rise — 
about  one  hour.     When  light,  stir  well  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 
If  wanted  for  over  night,  use  only  one  fourth  cake  of  yeast  and 
an  extra  half  teaspoon  of  salt.     Cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES  No.  2 

1  pint  buttermilk  Pinch  of  salt 

Buckwheat  flour  1  tablespoon  molasses 

l/4  cake  yeast  ^  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Into  the  buttermilk  stir  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter;  add 
the  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water  and  the  salt  and 
beat  thoroughly.  Let  rise  over  night  and  in  the  morning  stir  in 
the  molasses  and  baking  soda.  Save  a  cup  of  the  batter  to  be 
used  instead  of  yeast  for  the  next  baking. 

RICE  CAKES 

1  cup  flour  2  eggs 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1/z  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  boiled  rice 
Milk 

Mix  and  bake  as  directed  for  Griddle  Cakes  No.  1,  beating  the 
rice  into  the  milk  before  adding. 

CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

*/4  cup  corn  meal  1  cup  flour 

%  cup  boiling  watei  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Milk  (about  l/2  cup)  1  egg 

1  2  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  molasses 

Add  meal  to  boiling  water  and  boil  five  minutes;  when  luke- 
warm stir  in  the  milk;  add  dry  ingredients,  sifted.,  the  beaten  egg 
and  molasses.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle  and  serve  with  butter  and 
maple  sugar. 

CRUMB  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

%  cup  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

1  cup  milk  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

l/2  tablespoon  butter  l/2  cup  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cook  the  crumbs,  milk  and  butter  for  fifteen  minutes;  rub 
through  a  sieve;  cool  and  add  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  the  dry 
ingredients  sifted.  Fold  in  the  white  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

248  L-L 


BREAD,  HOT-CAKES,  ETC. 


MOLLETE 

y2  cup  cold  winter  squash  %  cup  corn  meal 

*/2  cup  milk  l/2  cup  flour 

1  egg  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  squash  with  the  milk  and  egg;  add  the  other  ingredi- 
ents; mix  all  together  into  a  smooth  batter  and  bake  in  small 
cakes  on  a  hot  griddle.  In  Mexico  these  are  served  hot,  with  a 
little  sugar  sprinkled  on  each. 

DROP  DUMPLINGS 

2  cups  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1/2  teaspoon  salt  1  scant  cup  milk 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder;  stir  in  the  milk  and  drop 
the  batter  by  spoonfuls  into  the  boiling  stew.  Cover  arid  cook 
for  ten  minutes. 

If  preferred,  they  may  be  dropped  on  a  buttered  plate  and 
cooked  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water.  In  either  case  they 
should  be  served  immediately. 

ROLLED  DUMPLINGS 

1/2  cup  suet  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  1A  cup  cold  water 

Chop  the  suet  very  fine;  mix  it  with  the  flour  and  salt;  then 
with  a  knife  stir  in  the  water,  ice-cold.  When  thoroughly  mixed 
roll  the  dough  into  tiny  dumplings  about  the  size  of  a  marble; 
drop  them  into  the  soup;  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes  and  serve. 

TABLE  SYRUP 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water  and  cook  until  it  thickens 
slightly.  When  cool,  add  vanilla  or  maple  flavoring.  The  syrup 
is  an  excellent  substitute  for  maple  or  other  table  syrup. 


249 


TABLE  OF  RECIPE  PROPORTIONS 

NOTE.— All  recipes  which  call  for  the  same  kinds  of  materials  differ  chiefly  in  the 
proportions  used,  as  shown  in  the  following  examples.  For  the  complete  recipes, 
see  the  body  of  the  book. 


Flour. 

Baking 
Powder. 

Short- 
ening. 

Milk. 

Sugar. 

Other  In- 
gredients. 

Eggs. 

Page. 

Egg  Muffins  .  . 

2  cups 

2tsp. 

1  tbsp. 

Icup 

1  tbsp. 

M  tsp. 

salt 

1 

243 

Griddle  Cakes  . 

2  cups 

3  tsp. 

2  tbsp. 

1^2  cups 

1  tsp. 

H  tsp. 
salt 

1  or  5 

247 

Waffles  

\Yz  Cups 

2  tbsp. 

2  tbsp. 

1  ?4  cups 

Mtsp. 

salt 

lor  2 

245 

Timbale  Cases. 

M  cup 

1  tbsp. 

Yz  cup 

Yi  tsp. 

salt 

1 

161 

Plain  Cake.... 

\Yz  cups 

2  tsp. 

K  cup 

Yz  cup 

1  cup 

H  tsp. 
flavoring 

2 

258 

Berry  Cake.... 

2  cups 

2  tsp. 

M  cup 

1  cup 

1  cup 

2  cups 
berries 

1 

258 

Cookies. 

.... 

— 

~  tsp. 

M  cup 

1  cup 

cinnamon, 
nutmeg 

271 

Tea  Biscuit  

2  cups 

2  tsp. 

1  tbsp. 

H  cup 

Mt  tsp, 

salt 

238 

Short  Cake  

2  cups 

3  tsp. 

3  tbsp. 

Mcup 

Yz  tsp. 
salt 

284 

Pastry  
(plain  paste) 

\Yl  CUPS 

1  2  cup 

31A  tbsp. 
cold  water 

}o  tsp. 

salt 

279 

tsp.  =  teaspoon,     tbsp.  =  tablespoon . 


250 


CAKES 


What  are  little  cakes  made  of,  made  of, 

What  are  little  cakes  made  of? 

Sugar  and  spice,  and  all  things  that  are  nice; 

And  that's  what  little  cakes  are  made  of,  made  of. 

— Mother  Goose  in  the  Kitchen. 


252 


CAKES 

A /THOUGH  the  mixing  of  cakes  requires  skill,  the  baking  is 
even  more  important  and  needs  careful  judgment.      The 
novice  generally  errs  in  using  too  hot  an  oven. 

For  the  sake  of  convenience,  cakes  may  be  divided  into  two 
main  classes — sponge  cakes,  or  cakes  without  butter,  and  butter 
cakes.  Other  fats  may  be  substituted  for  butter.  Since  butter 
becomes  more  difficult  to  digest  upon  being  heated,  sponge  cakes, 
or  the  butterless  kind,  are  to  be  preferred  for  children. 

Mixing 

Accuracy  in  the  proportion  of  ingredients  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary. To  insure  it,  instead  of  depending  on  ordinary  cups  and 
spoons,  no  two  of  which  hold  exactly  the  same  quantity,  it  is 
well  to  have  utensils  of  regulation  size — a  measuring  cup  divided 
into  quarters  and  thirds,  and  holding  half  a  pint,  a  few  tea-  and 
tablespoons,  a  case  knife,  and  several  mixing  spoons. 

To  mix  sponge  cake:  Separate  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  from  the 
whites,  and  beat  the  yolks  with  an  egg-beater  until  they  are  thick 
and  lemon-colored.  Then  add  the  sugar  a  little  at  a  time,  beating 
constantly.  Now  beat  the  whites  until  they  are  stiff  and  dry; 
add  them  and  the  sifted  dry  ingredients  as  directed  in  the  recipe. 
Do  this  with  as  few  motions  as  possible,  as  otherwise  the  air  bub- 
bles enclosed  in  the  mixture  will  be  broken  and  all  previous  work 
undone. 

To  mix  butter  cake:  Use  an  earthen  bowl  for  mixing  such  cakes, 
and  a  wooden  mixing  spoon  with  slits  in  it,  to  lighten  the  labor 
of  creaming  and  stirring.  Measure  the  dry  ingredients;  mix 
with  the  flour  and.  sift.  Next  break  the  eggs,  dropping  each 
into  a  saucer  first  in  case  the  whole  egg  is  to  be  used,  so  that  if 
a  stale  egg  happens  to  be  among  them  it  can  be  detected  easily 
and  in  time.  If  the  whites  and  yolks  are  to  be  used  separately, 
divide  them  as  you  break  the  eggs,  and  beat  both  well  before  using 
— the  yolks  until  light  and  the  whites  until  stiff  and  dry. 

253  L-L 


manned  tor  a 
Family  of  Four 


Then  measure  the  butter,  and  if  it  is  too  hard  to  work  well, 
let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  it  has  become  softened,  but  riot 
melted.  If  there  is  not  time  for  this,  warm  the  bowl  by  pouring 
hot  water  into  it,  letting  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  emptying 
and  wiping  it  dry.  Do  not  let  it  get  too  warm,  however,  or  the 
butter  will  become  oily  instead  of  creamy. 

If  fruit  is  to  be  used,  wash  and  dry  it  the  day  before.  Dust 
with  flour  just  before  using,  and  mix  with  the  hand  till  each 
piece  is  powdered,  so  that  all  will  mix  evenly  with  the  dough 
instead  of  sinking  to  the  bottom. 

Be  sure  to  have  all  the  ingredients  ready  before  beginning  to 
mix.  Put  the  butter  into  the  bowl  ;  work  it  until  soft  and  creamy, 
and  gradually  add  the  sugar,  beating  constantly.  Next  add  the 
egg«,  or  the  yolks,  whichever  the  recipe  specifies,  and  then  the 
liquid.  Work  in  the  flour,  a  little  at  a  time;  or,  if  desired,  add 
small  quantities  of  flour  and  liquid  alternately  until  the  entire 
amount  of  each  has  been  used. 


Baking 

Grease  the  pans  carefully  with  butter  or  suet;  dust  lightly 
with  flour;  shake  out  the  flour  and  pour  in  the  batter.  Then 
lift  the  pans  into  the  oven. 

The  essential  point,  of  course,  is  that  the  oven  have  just  the 
proper  degree  of  heat  for  the  kind  of  cake  to  be  baked.  If  it  is 
too  hot  at  first,  the  cake  will  form  a  crust  on  the  outside  before 
rising  to  its  full  height,  and  in  continuing  to  rise  it  will  lift  the 
top  and  break  it,  thus  producing  an  unsightly  loaf.  If  it  is  too 
cool,  the  cake  will  either  fall,  or  rise  and  run  over  the  sides  of  the 
pan,  making  the  loaf  not  only  unsightly,  but  of  a  coarse  texture ' 

Cake  should  be  watched  while  baking.  If  the  oven  door  is 
opened  and  closed  carefully  there  is  no  danger  of  causing  the 
cake  to  fall.  If  the  cake  browns  too  quickly,  cover  it  with  paper 
and  reduce  the  heat.  Small  cakes  require  a  hotter  oven  than 
loaf  cake. 

All  cakes  except  pound  cake  shrink  away  from  the  edges  of  the 
pan  when  done,  and  in  most  cases  no  further  test  is  necessary. 
Cakes  may,  however,  be  tested  by  sticking  a  fresh  broom  straw 
into  the  center;  if  it  comes  out  clean  the  cake  is  done. 

If  the  cake  cracks  open  on  top  too  much  flour  has  been  used. 
If  of  coarse  texture  the  cake  has  not  been  well  beaten  or  the  oven 
has  been  too  slow. 

254  L-L 


Planned  tor  a 
Family  of  Four 


BAKING  POWDER 

8  ounces  bicarbonate  of  soda  6  ounces  tartaric  add 

1  pound  high-grade  cornstarch 

Put  all  the  ingredients  together  and  sift  them  thoroughly  five 
times.     Keep  closely  covered  in  glass  jars  or  tin  boxes. 


ANGEL  CAKE 

Whites  of  11  eggs  iy2  cups  granulated  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  1  cup  sifted  flour 

1  teaspoon  flavoring 

Beat  the  eggs  until  light;  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  beat 
to  a  stiff  froth;  then  add  the  sugar  gradually.  Fold  in  the  flour 
after  it  has  been  sifted  five  times;  add  the  vanilla  and  pour  the 
mixture  into  an  unbuttered  angel-cake  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  forty-five  or  fifty  minutes;  turn  the  pan  upside  down  and 
let  it  stand  until  the  cake  falls  out. 


SPONGE  CAKE  No.  1 

6  large  eggs  V2  lemon 

11  ounces  granulated  sugar  Pinch  of  baking  powder 

33/4  ounces  sifted  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

Beat  the  yolks  and  the  whites  separately  until  very  light. 
Into  the  yolks  beat  the  sugar;  then  add  the  lemon,  salt,  baking 
powder  and  half  the  flour.  Fold  in  half  of  the  whites;  add  the 
remainder  of  the  flour,  then  the  remainder  of  the  whites.  Pour 
into  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  forty-five  minutes 
or  one  hour. 

SPONGE  CAKE  No.  2 

5  eggs  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  Vfc  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  flour 

Beat  the  yolks  until  light;  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the 
lemon.  Beat  the  whites  until  stiff  and  dry;  cut  them  into  the 
first  mixture;  then  sift  and  fold  in  the  flour,  but  do  not  stir  the 
mixture. 

255  I^L 


CAKES  _  Pannes  «*• 


Family  of  Four 


SPONGE  CAKE  No.  3 


4  eggs  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  sugat  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

6  tablespoons  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  thoroughly;  add  the 
water;  then  the  sifted  flour  and  the  whites  alternately,  and  the 
baking  powder  and  vanilla  last.  Pour  into  a  greased  Turk's  head 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 

CREAM   SPONGE 

For  cream  sponge  follow  the  recipe  for  Sponge  Cake  No.  3; 
bake  in  layers  and  fill  with  a  custard  made  from  the  following: 

1  cup  milk  1/2  cup  sugar 
ll/2  tablespoons  cornstarch  Yolk  of  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cook  like  any  other  custard  in  a  double  boiler. 

JELLY  ROLL 

3  eggs  l/2  cup  cold  water 

1V2  cups  sugar  Juice  of  V2  lemon 

2  cups  flour  y4  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar;  add  the  liquid  and  sifted  dry 
ingredients  alternately;  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  and  pour  into 
shallow  buttered  tins,  using  only  enough  batter  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  Bake  about  twelve  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven;  turn  out  on  a  paper  well  dusted  with  powdered  sugar; 
cut  off  a  thin  strip  from  the  sides  and  ends  of  the  cake;  spread 
with  jelly  and  quickly  roll.  After  the  cake  has  been  rolled  wrap 
paper  around  it  so  that  it  will  keep  its  shape. 

POTATO-FLOUR  CAKE 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

l/2  cup  potato  flour  Whites  of  4  eggs 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light  with  the  sugar;  add  the 
potato  flour  and  baking  powder;  flavor;  fold  in  the  whites  care- 
fully and  pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  tin.  Bake  in  a  very 
slow  oven  for  about  thirty-five  minutes. 

256  I^L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


POUND   CAKE 

1  pound  butter  10  eggs 

1  pound  sugar  y4  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  pound  flour  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
beaten  light;  then  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  them 
alternately  with  the  flour;  flavor;  put  in  two  deep,  buttered  pan* 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes. 

ORANGE  CAKE 

l/2  pound  butter  Rind  of  1  orange 

y2  pound  sugar  Juice  of  2  oranges 

l/2  pound  flour  1  even  teaspoon  soda 

5  eggs  1  teaspoon  hot  water 

Mix  like  pound  cake,  beating  the  oranges  into  the  sugar  and 
butter  and  adding  the  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water  last.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven  until  thoroughly  done. 

BUTTER  CAKE 

ll/2  clips  flour  ll/2  cups  powdered  sugar 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

5  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  butter  and  flour  to  a  cream;  add  the  yolks,  then  the 
beaten  whites,  and  last  the  sugar,  baking  powder  and  vanilla. 

PEGGY  CAKE 

1V2  cups  sugar  yz  cup  milk 

l/2  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

3  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Little  grated  nutmeg 

Mix  like  pound  cake,  adding  the  baking  powder  last.  Bake 
in  shallow  tins  or  in  a  Turk's  head. 

GOLD  CAKE 

%  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3/4  cup  milk 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Little  grated  nutmeg 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs,  then  the 
sifted  flour  and  baking  powder  alternately  with  the  milk.  Flavor 
with  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 

257  M, 


CAKES  PIanne<r  for  a 


Family  of  Four 


SILVER   CAKE 


1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

6  ounces  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Whites  of  2  eggs  J/2  cup  cream 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs,  then  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder;  last  ad<4 
the  cream  and  flavoring. 

PLAIN   CAKE 

%  cup  butter  l/2  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1%  cups  flour 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  beaten  yolks 
and  beat  all  well;  then  add  the  milk  alternately  with  the  sifted 
flour  and  baking  powder;  last  of  all  add  the  whites,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  the  flavoring.  Bake  in  one  pan  or  in  small  gem 
pans. 

BERRY  CAKE 

l/4  cup  butter  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  pint  blueberries,  huckleberries,  or  blackberries 

Mix  the  same  as  Plain  Cake,  adding  the  berries,  well  washed 
and  drained  and  dusted  with  flour. 


SHELLBARK   CAKE 

l/4  pound  butter  1  cup  shellbark  meats 

1  cup  s 

2  eggs 


1  cup  sugar  y4  pound  raisins 

2  eggs  1/4  pound  currants 
2  cups  flour  l/4  pound  citron 


teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

cup  milk  Ten  gratings  of  nutmep; 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  beaten  eggs, 
then  half  the  flour  alternately  with  the  milk  in  which  the  soda 
has  been  dissolved;  add  the  nuts,  then  the  fruit,  well  washed  and 
drained  and  mixed  with  some  of  the  flour;  add  vanilla  and  nut- 
meg and  the  remaining  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 

258  I^L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Pour 


1/2  cup 

l*/2  CU 


LEMON  CAKE 

butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

_  cups  sugar  iVk  cups  flour 

3  eggs  l/4  cup  milk 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  yz  lemon 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  beaten  yolks; 
then  alternately  the  milk  and  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder; 
fold  in  the  whites  and  add  lemon. 

CORNSTARCH  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

l/4  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

l/2  cup  milk  l/2  cup  cornstarch 

Whites  of  3  eggs 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  milk,  then  the 
flour,  cornstarch  and  baking  powder,  well  sifted  together;  last 
add  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  a  loaf  or  in  two 
layers,  and  ice. 


SIMPLE  LAYER  CAKE 

1V3  cups  sugar  %  cup  milk 

%  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs;  then  the 
flour  and  milk  alternately  and  the  baking  powder  and  flavoring 
last.  Bake  in  layers  and  fill  with  chocolate  or  other  filling. 

FARMERS'  FRUIT  CAKE 

3  cups  dried  apples  ll/2  cups  milk 

2  cups  molasses  2  eggs 

1  cup  butter  4  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  3  teaspoons  mixed  spices 

Soak  the  apples  over  night;  chop  and  cook  slowly  with  the 
molasses  until  tender.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the 
eggs,  then  the  cooked  apples  and  molasses,  raisins  and  milk. 
Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  spices  and  beat  well  while  add- 
ing to  the  other  ingredients.  Pour  into  a  well-greased  pan  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

259 


CAKES  Planned  for  a 


Family  of  Four 


ECONOMICAL  FRUIT  CAKE 


V2  cup  butter  1  egg 

2  cups  brown  sugar  l/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  pound  raisins  l/2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  pound  currants  Pinch  of  salt 

1/2  pound  citron  1  cup  warm  coffee 

1  cup  molasses  3  cups  flour 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Wash  the  fruit  thoroughly  and  put  it  in  a  warm  place  to  dry. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar;    add  the  fruit,  molasses,  egg  and 

spices;    then  the  flour  and  coffee  alternately   and   the  baking 

•powder  last.     Line  a  deep  baking  pan  with  well-buttered  paper; 

pour  the  batter  into  it  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  three  hours. 

ONE-EGG  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  MJ  cup  milk 

1/4  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  flavoring 

1  egg  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1%  cups  flour 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  egg  beaten 
very  light,  then  the  milk  and  flavoring.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  together;  add  these  to  the  mixture  and  beat  well.  Bake 
about  half  an  hour. 

MOCK  POUND   CAKE 

1/2  pound  pulverized  sugar  Vz  cup  milk 

1/4  pound  butter  !3/4  cup  flour 

3  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs;  then  alternately  the  milk  and  the  sifted  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  stir 
them  into  the  mixture  carefully.  Pour  into  a  greased  pan  and 
Wke  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

COCOANUT   CAKE 

l/2  cup  butter  i/2  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1%  cups  flour 

1/2  cup  shredded  cocoanut  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  Flavoring 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  cocoanut  and 
eggs;  then  add  the  milk  and  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder. 

200  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


Flavor  to  taste;  turn  into  a.  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  about  forty-five  minutes. 

LADY   CAKE 

6  ounces  butter  Vfc  teaspoon  almond  extract 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  Whites  of  3  eggs 

l/4  cup  milk  iy2  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the 
flavoring  and  milk  and  the  beaten  whites  alternately  with  the 
sifted  flour  and  baking  powder. 

WHITE  CUP  CAKE 

l/2  cup  butter  */2  cup  cream 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  2  cups  flour 

Dash  of  nutmeg  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Grated  rind  of  l/%  lemon  3^  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  hot  watei 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  lemon  rind  and 
nutmeg,  then  the  cream,  then  the  flour  alternately  with  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Last  add  the  soda  dissolved  in 
the  hot  water.  Bake  in  shallow  buttered  tins  or  all  in  one. 

CINNAMON  SWEET  CAKE 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  egg  3/4  cup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  egg  arid  cin- 
namon; then  the  flour  and  milk  alternately  and  the  baking  powder 
last.  Pour  into  two  shallow  greased  baking  tins;  spread  brown 
sugar,  cinnamon  and  bits  of  butter  over  the  top  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven. 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE 

l/2  cup  butter  ll/2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  Grated  nutmeg 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

l/2  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  bntter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  then  the  milk,  flour  and  flavoring,  and  last  the  baking 

18  2G1  i,  L 


1'lanned  for  a 
FamUy  of  Four 


powder.      Beat  thoroughly  after  adding  each  ingredient.     Bake 
in  layers  and  fill  with  marshmallow  filling. 

COFFEE   LOAF   CAKE 

V3  cup  butter  1  egg 

1/2  cup  sugar  1  cup  seeded  raisins 

Vz  CUP  molasses  2  cups  flour 

l/2  cup  strong  coffee  %  teaspoon  soda 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  molasses,  then 
the  beaten  egg  and  coffee.  Wash  and  drain  the  raisins;  dredge 
with  flour  and  add  to  the  mixture;  then  add  the  sifted  flour  and 
soda.  Beat  well  and  pour  into  a  deep,  greased  pan.  Bake  about 
one  hour. 

MARBLE   CAKE 

1  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

4  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  square  unsweetened  chocolate 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  then  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder  alternately  with 
the  milk.  Fold  in  the  whites;  take  one  third  of  the  batter  out 
and  add  to  it  the  chocolate  melted  and  thinned  with  a  little  hot 
water.  Into  the  baking  pan  pour  the  yellow  mixture  to  the  depth 
of  one  inch;  drop  :!nto  this  in  two  or  three  places  a  spoonful  of 
the  dark  mixture,  giving  it  a  slight  stir  with  the  tip  of  a  spoon 
and  spreading  it  in  broken  circles  around  the  dark  mixture.  Pour 
in  more  yellow  batter,  then  more  brown,  proceeding  in  the  same 
way  until  all  the  batter  is  used.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


SURPRISE   CAKE 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  raisins 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

1/2  teaspoon  allspice  2  teaspoons  baking  soda 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon  1  cup  apple  sauce 
14  teaspoon  cloves                             Vfe  cup  boiling  water 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  sugar  and  add  the  raisins  and  spices. 
Thin  the  apple  sauce  with  the  boiling  water  and  add  it  to  the 
other  ingredients,  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

262 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


SNIPPY-DOODLE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  l/2  cup  milk 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  and  add  the  egg.  Then 
stir  in  the  flour  and  the  milk  alternately;  add  the  baking  powder 
last.  Pour  into  a  shallow,  greased  baking  tin;  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SPONGE  GINGER  CAKE 

l/2  cup  sour  milk  1  egg 

l/2  cup  molasses  y2  tablespoon  ginger 

*/4  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  soda 

Beat  together  the  molasses,  butter,  egg,  milk  and  ginger;  then 
stir  in  the  flour  and  last  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  very  little  hot 
water.  Bake  in  shallow  square  tins. 

GINGERBREAD 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  molasses 
l/2  cup  butter  and  lard                           3  cups  flour 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  sour  milk  1V2  teaspoons  ginger 

2  even  teaspoons  soda  1  teaspoon  cloves 

l/4  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs,  then  tfte 
milk  with  the  soda  dissolved  in  it,  last  the  molasses,  spices  and 
flour.  Bake  in  square  tins  about  twenty  minutes. 

MOLASSES  CAKE 

1/2  cup  granulated  sugar  2l/2  cups  sifted  flour 

J/2  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  molasses  ll/2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

2  even  teaspoons  soda  Salt  to  taste 

1  cup  boiling  water  2  beaten  eggs 

Cream  the  butter  with  the  sugar  and  add  the  molasses;  then 
add  the  boiling  water  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved. 
Measure  the  flour  after  it  is  sifted;  stir  it  into  the  molasses  mix- 
ture when  that  has  cooled;  add  spices  and  salt  and  last  of  all  the 
eggs.  Bake  in  a  shallow  greased  pan  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

263  L-L 


CAKES  Flannea  *or  9 


Family  of  Foul 


MOCHA  TORTE 


6  eggs  3/4  cup  sifted  flour 

34  cup  sugar  (half  pulverized)  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  essence  Turkish  coffee     1  cup  whipped  cream 

Beat  the  sugar  thoroughly  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs;  then 
add  the  coffee,  and  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder  alternately 
•with  the  well-beaten  whites.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  put  ^he 
whipped  cream  between  the  layers. 

For  the  icing  use  one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
of  boiling  water  and  one  tablespoon  of  coffee  essence. 


PATRIOTIC  CAKE   (1776  RECIPE) 

1  pound  risen  bread  dough  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  water 

1  cup  butter  J/2  pound  currants 

3  eggs  l/2  pound  seeded  raisins 

2  tablespoons  cream  1  level  teaspoon  cloves 

1  level  teaspoon  nutmeg 

To  the  risen  bread  dough  add  the  other  ingredients,  dissolving 
the  soda  in  the  water  and  having  the  currants  and  raisins  thor- 
oughly washed  and  drained.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  greased 
pan  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  twenty  minutes.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  and  when  cool,  ice  and  ornament  with  candied 
cherries. 

DEVILS'  FOOD 

2  ounces  unsweetened  chocolate  ll/2  cups  sugar 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  V2  cup  butter 

3/4  cup  milk  !3/4  cups  flour 

Whites  of  2  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  the  chocolate  with  half  the  milk  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  over  hot  water  and  cook  until  a  thick  custard  is  formed. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  remaining  eggs,  the  flour 
and  baking  powder,  sifted,  the  milk,  vanilla  and  chocolate  custard 
after  it  has  cooled.  Bake  in  layers  and  cover  with  boiled  white 
frosting.  Or  cut  out  the  centers  of  the  two  upper  layers  and  fill 
with  whipped  cream  to  which  sugar,  cherries  and  nuts  have  been 
added.  Put  the  cream  between  the  layers,  also,  and  ice  the  top. 

264  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


SPANISH  BUN  No.   1 

3  ounces  butter  6  ounces  flour 

l/2  pound  sugar  V2  cup  cream 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3/2  cup  currants 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  then  the  cream  alternately  with  the  sifted  flour,  mixing  the 
baking  powder  with  the  last  of  the  flour.  Then  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff,  and  last  of  all  the  currants,  thoroughly 
washed  and  dried.  Bake  in  shallow  tins  and  ice  with  boiled  icing. 


SPANISH  BUN  No.  2 

1/4  pound  butter  %  pound  flour 

%  pound  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  3/4  cup  milk 

Dash  of  nutmeg  6  ounces  currants 

Beat  the  butter  arid  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs  and  grated 
nutmeg,  then  alternately  the  milk  and  sifted  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Last  of  all  add  the  currants,  well  washed  and  drained 
and  dusted  with  flour. 

CUP  CAKES 

V2  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  iVz  cups  flour 

2  eggs  10  drops  almond  extract 

Milk  (about  V2  cup) 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs  and  beat 
until  light;  add  sifted  flour,  baking  powder,  flavoring  and  milk 
to  make  a  smooth  batter,  medium  thick.  Bake  in  well-greased 
cups  or  gem  pans. 

DROP  CAKES 

%  CUP  butter  3  table  spoons  milk 

3/4  cup  sugar  1  Vi  cups  flour 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  butter,  sugar  and  egg  together;  add  the  milk,  flour 
and  baking  powder,  well  sifted,  and  flavoring  if  desired.  Drop 
from  a  spoon  three  inches  apart  on  buttered  tins  and  bake 
quickly  in  a  hot  oven. 

265 


CAKES  Plunned  10f  * 


Family  of  Four 


CHOCOLATE  DROP  CAKES 

Whites  of  4  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

2  ounces  grated  chocolate  3  ounces  flour 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  the  sugar,  then  the  chocolate* 
melted,  and  the  flour.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  buttered  tins, 
allowing  room  for  the  mixture  to  spread.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CURRANT  DROP  CAKES 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  %  cup  sour  cream 

%  cup  butter  ^  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  hot  water 

1%  cups  flour  l/4  cup  currants 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  egg,  beaten  until 
very  light,  then  the  sifted  flour.  Beat  all  well  together;  add  the 
cream  and  the  soda  dissolved  hi  hot  water.  Last  add  the  cur- 
rants, washed  and  drained  and  mixed  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour. 
Drop  the  mixture  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

GINGER  DROP  CAKES 

l/2  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  ginger 

1  cup  molasses  2  eggs 

l/2  cup  sugar  M  tablespoon  soda 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  *4  cup  hot  water 

Flour  to  make  stiff  batter 

Warm  the  butter  slightly;  beat  it  in  the  molasses;  add  the 
ginger,  sugar  and  salt,  then  a  little  of  the  flour,  then  the  beaten 
eggs,  then  more  flour.  Make  the  batter  stiffer  than  needed  to 
allow  for  the  soda  and  hot  water,  which  are  to  be  added  last. 
Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

OAT  CAKES 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  2l/2  cups  rolled  oats 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter;  add  the  eggs,  beaten  separately  and 
then  together,  the  vanilla  and  the  dry  ingredients,  well  mixed. 
Drop  the  mixture  from  a  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins,  allowing  room 
Cor  the  cakes  to  spread. 

266  L-L 


Harmed  for  a  r*AVT?C 

Family  of  Four  WUxJC/O 


OAT  COOKIES 

1/2  cup  sugar  i/2  cup  flour 

i/^  cup  butter  1/2  CUP  chopped  raisins 

1  egg  1/2  tablespoon  cinnamon 

l/4  teaspoon  salt  Y^  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  rolled  oats  1  tablespoon  hot  water 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  mix  in  the  other  ingre- 
dients, adding  the  soda  last,  dissolved  in  the  hot  water.  Roll 
the  dough  into  small  balls  like  nuts  and  bake  on  buttered  tins 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

PEPPERNUTS 

11/4  pounds  brown  sugar  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

3  eggs  11/4  teaspoons  soda 

1  cup  chopped  walnuts  1  tablespoon  hot  water 

1  teaspoon  cloves  Flour  to  make  dough 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly;  add  the  sugar  and  beat  again. 
Then  add  the  chopped  walnuts  and  spices  and  some  of  the  flour. 
Add  the  soda  dissolved  in  the  hot  water  and  more  flour — enough 
to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  rolled  out  on  a  pie  board.  Roll 
one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  cut  into  tiny  rounds  and  bake  on 
greased  tins. 

BELGRADER  BREAD 

1  pound  powdered  sugar  1  small  nutmeg  grated 

4  eggs  1/4  teaspoon  cloves 

1/4  pound  chopped  almonds  1/4  teaspoon  powdered  hartshorn 

1/4  pound  chopped  citron  Sufficient  flour  to  make  dough 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together;  add  the  almonds,  citron  and 
spices;  then  add  the  flour  gradually.  Take  one-fourth  of  the 
dough;  roll  it  out  on  a  board  well  dusted  with  flour;  cut  into 
diamond-shaped  pieces;  place  half  an  almond  or  pecan  in  the 
center  of  each,  and  paint  with  egg,  using  a  small  stiff  brush. 
Bake  on  greased  tins  in  a  hot  oven. 

ALMOND  ROCK  CAKES 

3/4  pound  chopped  almonds  Pinch  of  salt 

1  pound  powdered  sugar  Whites  of  5  eggs 

Add  the  salt  to  the  eggs  and  beat  as  stiff  as  possible.  Add  the 
sugar  gradually,  then  the  almonds.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  on 
buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  delicately  browned. 

267 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


MACAROONS 

1/2  pound  shelled  almonds  1  pound  pulverized  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  plunge  them  into  cold  water.  Run 
them  through  a  chopper  or  pound  them  as  fine  as  possible;  add 
the  vanilla  and  sugar  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Work  the  paste  thoroughly;  then  dip  the  hands  in  water  and  roll 
the  paste  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Lay  them  on  buttered 
paper  an  inch  apart  and  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow 
oven. 

COCOANUT  MACAROONS 

1  grated  cocoanut  l/2  cup  flour 
1/2  its  weight  in  sugar                             White  of  1  egg 

Mix  the  cocoanut  thoroughly  with  the  sugar  and  flour;  add 
the  white  of  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  work  the  paste  carefully. 
Roll  it  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg  and  lay  them  on  buttered 
paper.  Bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

NUT  MACAROONS 

Whites  of  2  eggs  V2  tablespoon  flour 

l/2  pound  powdered  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

l/2  pound  chopped  nuts 

Beat  the  whites  very  stiff;  stir  in  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt  and 
last  the  nuts.  With  wet  hands  roll  the  mixture  into  small  balls 
and  bake  on  buttered  paper. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKES 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  grated  chocolate 
1/2  CUP  butter                                            2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  and  the  chocolate  (melted  by  standing  over  hot  water); 
then  add  alternately  the  flour  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Add  the  flavoring;  work  the  mixture  well  and  roll  it  in 
long  narrow  pieces.  Roll  these  in  granulated  sugar  and  bake 
them  on  pans  dusted  with  flour.  If  the  cakes  spread  and  crack 
open  like  macaroons  they  are  right. 

268  *-t 


Planned  tor  H 
Family  of  Four 


CHOCOLATE  WAFERS 

2  pounds  sugar  14  tablespoons  melted  lard 

3  eggs  and  butter 

V2  pound  grated  chocolate  Flour  to  make  dough 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

Beat  the  eggs  with  the  sugar;  add  the  other  ingredients,  melt- 
ing the  chocolate  first  over  hot  water,  and  using  enough  flour  to 
make  a  dough  that  can  be  rolled  very  thin.  Roll;  cut  with  a 
round  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  on  buttered  tins  in  a  quick  oven. 


A-P'S 

3/4  cup  butter  2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  V2  pound  flour 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs  well  beaten, 
then  the  flour.  Drop  by  the  half  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins  and 
bake  until  the  edges  are  delicately  browned. 


GINGER  SNAPS  No.  1 

1  cup  melted  butter  and  lard  1  tablespoon  ginger 

l/2  cup  sugar  1  scant  tablespoon  soda 

1  cup  molasses  V4  cup  milk 

Flour  to  make  stiff  dough 

Mix  the  butter  and  lard  with  the  sugar;  add  some  flour,  then 
the  molasses  and  ginger,  and  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  very  little 
warm  water.  Continue  adding  flour  and  milk  alternately  until 
a  stiff  dough  is  formed.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  possible;  cut  into 
round  cakes  and  bake  on  greased  tins  in  a  quick  oven. 


GINGER   SNAPS  No.  2 

l/2  cup  molasses  l/2  cup  butter 

l/2  cup  sugar  1/2  cup  sour  milk 

ll/2  tablespoons  ginger  V2  teaspoon  soda 

1/2  tablespoon  cinnamon  %  tablespoon  hot  water 

Flour  to  make  stiff  dough 

Boil  the  molasses,  spices  and  sugar  together;  add  the  butter, 
sour  milk  and  the  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Add  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  roll  very  thin;  cut  into  round  cakes 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

269  L-L 


CAKES  - 1planned  f  or  a 


Family  of  Four 


ORANGE  GINGERBREAD 


12  ounces  flour  1  teaspoon  allspice 

4  ounces  brown  sugar  2  ounces  candied  orange  peel 

1  teaspoon  ginger  4  ounces  butter 
Molasses 

Sift  the  flour;  stir  in  the  spices  and  chopped  orange  peel;  warm 
the  butter  and  add  it;  then  mix  all  to  a  dough  with  molasses. 
Roll  very  thin,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible;  cut  in  small  round 
cakes  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CRISP  GINGERBREAD 

1  pound  flour  1  teaspoon  cloves 

%  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  mace 

%  cup  butter  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  tablespoon  ginger  Molasses 

Cut  and  rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  and  sugar  until  thoroughly 
mixed;  add  spices  and  lemon  peel;  mix  thoroughly  and  moisten 
with  molasses.  Roll  the  dough  very  thin;  cut  into  squares  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

CRULLERS   (New  England  Doughnuts) 
1  egg  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  cup  sugar  Flour 

Cassia  or  nutmeg  I  cup  sour  milk 

1  ^  teaspoons  soda 

Beat  the  egg;  add  the  sugar,  flavoring  to  taste,  butter,  melted, 
and  flour  and  milk  alternately.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and 
mix  all  as  lightly  as  possible.  Use  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough;  roll  and  fry  in  deep  fat,  hot  enough  to  smoke  but  not  too 
hot,  or  the  crullers  will  brown  and  not  be  cooked  through.  Sweet 
milk  and  two  tablespoons  baking  powder  may  be  substituted  for 
the  sour  milk  and  soda. 

JUMBLES 

2  cups  sugar  Flour 

1  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  sour  milk 

2  eggs  beaten  separately  %  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs  and  part 
of  the  flour;  then  the  milk,  dissolving  the  soda  in  the  milk.  And 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  thin. 
Cut  in  rings  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 

270  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


COOKIES 

1  cup  sugar  y4  cup  milk 

l/2  cup  butter  and  lard  Flour  to  make  dough 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Few  gratings  of  nutmeg  Sugar  and  cinnamon 

Follow  the  directions  for  Jumbles;  roll  as  thin  as  possible,  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

SAND  TARTS 

Make  jumbles,  cutting  them  into  squares.  Brush  the  top  with 
egg  and  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar. 

PEANUT  CAKES 

Whites  of  5  eggs  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  sugar  Ground  peanuts 

Beat  the  eggs  as  stiff  as  possible;  add  the  sugar  and  flour; 
then  stir  in  enough  peanuts  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter.  Drop 
in  small  lumps  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

FRUIT  JUMBLES 

1  cup  butter  Grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  10  ounces  flour/ 

l/2  pound  seeded  raisins  or  currants 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  lemon  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg;  then  the  eggs  beaten  separately,  then  the 
flour,  leaving  out  a  tablespoonful  to  mix  with  the  fruit.  Have 
the  fruit  well  washed  and  drained;  mix  with  the  flour  and  add 
to  the  batter.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake. 

MERINGUES 

Whites  of  3  eggs  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

l/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  in  the  powdered  sugar  lightly 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  When  thoroughly  mixed  flavor  and 
arrange  the  meringue  on  buttered  paper  in  the  shape  of  eggs; 
sift  powdered  sugar  thickly  over  the  top;  let  them  stand  a  few 
minutes;  shake  off  the  superfluous  sugar;  lay  the  paper  on  tins 

271  Ir-K 


Planned  for  i 
Family  of  Fom 


and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  until  a  delicate  brown.  When 
cool,  remove  carefully  from  the  paper;  dip  a  spoon  in  hot  water; 
scoop  out  the  inside;  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  set  away 
until  serving  time.  Fill  with  ice  cream  or  whipped  cream  and 
press  together,  leaving  some  of  the  cream  visible. 

KISSES 

Follow  the  recipe  for  meringues,  arranging  in  smaller  mounds; 
when  done  do  not  remove  the  inside  but  press  two  pieces  together, 
dipping  the  flat  sides  lightly  in  white  of  egg  to  make  them  stick. 

PLAIN  FROSTING 

1  cup  powdered  or  confectioners'  sugar 

2  tablespoons  milk  or  water 
l/4  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  only  enough  liquid  to  make  a  moderately  thick  paste; 
different  grades  of  sugar  may  require  different  amounts. 

Two  tablespoons  of  cocoa  or  grated  chocolate,  melted,  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

ORNAMENTAL  FROSTING 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  White  of  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

This  frosting  is  to  be  used  only  for  decoration  on  a  cake  that 
has  already  been  iced. 

Beat  the  egg  until  it  is  frothy  but  not  dry;  add  three  tea- 
spoons of  sugar  and  beat  five  minutes;  add  one  teaspoon  every 
five  minutes  until  the  frosting  is  thick;  then  add  the  lemon  juice. 
Continue  beating  until  a  point  of  the  mixture  will  keep  any  form; 
press  through  a  pastry  tube  upon  the  cake  as  desired. 

BOILED  FROSTING 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg  white 

4  tablespoons  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  will  thread  when 
dropped  from  the  tip  of  a  spoon.  Pour  gradually  over  the  stiffly 
beaten  white,  beating  constantly  until  the  mixture  is  of  the  right 
consistency  to  spread;  then  add  flavoring  and  spread  evenly 
with  a  knife  over  the  cold  cake. 

272  I.-L 


HOW  TO  USE  A  PASTRY  TUBE 


for  & 
Family  of  Four 


If  two  eggs  are  used  instead  of  one  the  mixture  will  not  harden 
so  quickly  and  will  be  more  easily  spread. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING  No.  1 

Make  a  boiled  frosting,  adding  one  square  of  unsweetened 
chocolate,  grated,  to  the  beaten  egg.  The  chocolate  will  melt 
when  the  hot  syrup  is  poured  on. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING  No.  2 

2  tablespoons  melted  chocolate  5  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

Cook  over  the  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy,  and  use  at  once. 
This  icing  is  to  be  used  for  eclairs  or  small  cakes. 

MAPLE-SUGAR  FROSTING 

l/2  pound  maple  sugar  y2  cup  milk 

Whites  of  2  eggs 

Scrape  the  sugar  into  a  saucepan;  add  the  milk  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Pour  hot  over  the  beaten  whites 
of  eggs ;  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and  spread  quickly  between 
the  layers  of  cake. 

DIVINITY  FROSTING 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  egg  white 

3  tablespoons  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped 
into  cold  water.  Proceed  as  with  Boiled  Frosting. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING 

5  tablespoons  grated  chocolate  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  milk 

V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  the  chocolate;  add  the  sugar,  egg  and  milk  and  cook  for 
five  minutes  over  boiling  water.  Cool  slightly;  add  the  vanilla 
and  spread  between  the  layers  of  cakev 

273  L-L 


CAKES  Planned  for. 


Family  of  Four 


FIG  FILLING 


V2  pound  chopped  figs  3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Cook  all  the  ingredients  together  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick 
enough  to  spread  without  running  off  the  cake.  Have  the  cake 
cold  and  the  filling  hot. 

FRUIT  FILLING 

Whites  of  3  eggs  4  tablespoons  chopped  raisins 

l/2  cup  sugar  l/2  cup  chopped  almonds 

4  tablespoons  chopped  citron  %  pound  chopped  figs 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then 
the  fruit  and  nuts. 

ORANGE  FILLING 

To  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange  add  enough  powdered 
sugar  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Spread  between  the  layers  of  a  cake, 
icing  the  top  layer. 

LEMON  FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  */£  tablespoon  butter 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  and  cook 
until  the  mixture  thickens.  Spread  between  the  layers  of  cake 
and  ice  the  top  with  a  white  icing  made  from  the  whites  of  eggs 
not  used  in  the  filling. 

COCOANUT  FILLING 

Make  a  boiled  frosting;  spread  as  usual;  sprinkle  cocoanut 
over  the  top;  lay  on  another  layer  and  do  the  same. 

MARSHMALLOW  FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  White  of  1  egg 

5  tablespoons  boiling  water  8  marshmallows 

J/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  until  stiff  and  heat  the  marshmallows 
until  soft.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a  thread;  pour 
on  the  egg  and  marshmallows  and  beat  until  cool  enough  to  spread. 

274  L-L 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


fc-L 


//  pie  weren't  good  for  us,  why  should  it  taste  so  good  ? 

— Riddles  to  Solve. 


Occasionally,  I  give  my  stomach  a  piece  of  mince  pie  just  to  show 
it  who  is  the  bos? 

—The  Bishop. 


276 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 

r  would  be  a  waste  of  paper  and  space  to  warn  the  average 
American  against  the  indigestibility  of  pastry,  even  at  its 
best,  and  to  explain  that  starch  cells  thus  combined  are 
armored  against  the  influence  of  digestive  fluids.  Therefore 
every  good  cook  endeavors  to  produce  the  best  kind  of  pastry, 
light  and  flaky,  and  as  digestible  as  possible;  for  heavy,  soggy 
pastry  is  an  endurance  test  for  the  digestion  of  even  the  most 
healthy  person. 

The  baking  is  especially  important,  because  even  good  crust 
poorly  baked  is  unfit  to  eat.  The  oven  must  be  hot,  with  the 
greatest  heat  at  the  bottom,  so  that  the  under  crust  may  be  thor- 
oughly cooked,  and  cooked  before  the  filling  of  the  pie  has  a  chance 
to  soak  in  and  make  it  soggy. 

Butter  makes  a  more  flaky  crust  than  lard,  although  the  recipes 
call  for  lard  because  that  is  generally  more  available;  but  other 
preparations,  of  which  there  are  several  on  the  market,  may  be 
used, 

PUFF-PASTE 

l/2  pound  butter  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

l/2  pound  flour  l/4  to  l/2  cup  ice-water 

The  secret  of  making  good  puff -paste  is  to  have  all  the  ingredients 
cold.  Use  a  marble  slab  if  possible  and  avoid  making  the  paste 
on  a  warm,  damp  day.  It  should  be  made  in  a  cool  place,  as 
it  is  necessary  to  keep  the  paste  cold  during  the  whole  time  of 
preparation.  The  recipe  makes  two  pies  or  four  crusts. 

Cut  off  one  third  of  the  butter  and  put  the  remaining  two  thirds 
in  a  bowl  of  ice- water.  Divide  this  into  four  equal  parts;  pat 
each  into  a  thin  sheet  and  set  them  away  on  ice.  Mix  and  sift  the 
flour  and  salt;  rub  the  reserved  butter  into  it  and  make  as  stiff 
as  possible  with  ice-water.  Dust  the  slab  with  flour;  turn  the 

19  277  L-L 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


paste  upon  it;  knead  for  one  minute;  then  stand  on  ice  for  five 
minutes.  Roll  the  cold  paste  into  a  rectangular  sheet  about  one 
third  of  an  inch  thick;  place  the  cold  butter  in  the  center  and  fold 
the  paste  over  it,  first  from  the  sides  and  then  the  ends,  keeping 
the  shape  square  and  folding  so  that  the  butter  is  completely 
encased  and  cannot  escape  through  any  cracks  as  it  is  rolled.  Roll 
out  to  one  fourth  inch  thickness,  keeping  the  rectangular  shape  and 
folding  as  before,  but  without  butter.  Continue  rolling  and  fold- 
ing, enclosing  a  sheet  of  butter  at  every  alternate  folding  until  all 
four  sheets  are  used.  Then  turn  the  folded  side  down  and  roll  in 
one  direction  into  a  long  narrow  strip,  keeping  the  edges  as  straight 
as  possible.  Fold  the  paste  over,  making  three  even  layers.  Then 
roll  again  and  fold  as  before.  Repeat  the  process  until  the  dough 
has  had  six  turns.  Cut  into  the  desired  shapes  and  place  on  the 
ice  for  twenty  minutes  or  longer  before  putting  in  the  oven. 

If  during  the  making  the  paste  sticks  to  the  board  or  pin, 
remove  it  immediately  and  stand  on  the  ice  until  thoroughly 
chilled.  Scrape  the  board  clean;  rub  with  a  dry  cloth  and  dust 
with  fresh  flour  before  trying  again.  Use  as  little  flour  as  possible 
in  rolling,  but  use  enough  to  keep  the  paste  dry.  Roll  with  a 
light,  even,  long  stroke  in  every  direction,  but  never  work  the 
rolling  pin  back  and  forth  as  that  movement  toughens  the  paste 
and  breaks  the  bubbles  of  air. 

The  baking  of  puff-paste  is  almost  as  important  as  the  rolling, 
and  the  oven  must  be  very  hot,  with  the  greatest  heat  at  the 
bottom,  so  that  the  paste  will  rise  before  it  browns.  If  the  paste 
should  begin  to  scorch,  open  the  draughts  at  once  and  cool  the 
temperature  by  placing  a  pan  of  ice-  water  in  the  oven. 


HALF  PUFF-PASTE  FOR  FRUIT  PIES 

l/2  pound  flour  Ice-water 

2  ounces  lard  4  ounces  butter 

Pinch  of  salt 

Sift  Uie  flour  and  salt;  cut  into  it  the  lard;  mix  to  a  dough  with 
cold  water.  Flour  the  pastry  slab  or  pie  board;  turn  out  the  paste; 
roll  half  an  inch  thick;  sprinkle  lightly  with  flour  and  roll  again 
Lay  on  the  butter;  fold  the  crust  over;  roll  as  before;  dust  with 
flour;  fold  and  roll  again.  Repeat  the  process  once  more;  set 
in  a  cool  plae**  for  half  an  hour  or  longer;  give  another  roll  and  the 
paste  is  readj  for  use.  It  should  make  four  single  crusts. 

278  L-L 


PASTRY  AND   PIES 


PLAIN   PASTE 

ll/2  cups  flour  (sifted)  1/2  cup  lard 

J/2  teaspoon  salt  3J/2  tablespoons  coid  water 

Sift  the  flour  and  salt,  then  cut  in  the  shortening  with  two 
knives  until  it  looks  mealy.  Add  the  water  gradually,  cutting 
it  in  with  a  knife.  Flour  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  roll  out  the  crust 
and  line  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  it.  Trim  off  the  edges;  roll 
them  out;  form  into  a  long  strip  and  press  around  the  edge  of 
the  crust,  moistening  it  slightly  with  water  first  to  make  the 
dough  adhere.  Fill  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  having  the  greatest 
heat  at  the  bottom.  A  gas  stove  is  more  satisfactory  for  pies 
than  a  coal  stove.  The  recipe  makes  two  single  crusts. 


TARTLETS 

Roll  puff-paste  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  cut  it  into  squares; 
turn  the  points  together  into  the  middle  and  press  slightly  to  make 
them  stay.  Bake  until  thoroughly  done;  place  a  spoonful  oi 
jam  in  the  center  of  each;  cover  the  jam  with  meringue  and  brown 
the  meringue  in  a  quick  oven. 

By  brushing  the  top  of  the  paste  with  beaten  egg  diluted  with 
one  teaspoon  of  water  a  glazed  appearance  may  be  obtained. 


TORTO  FRUTAS 

Line  the  sides  of  a  baking  dish  with  a  half  puff-paste;  cover  the 
bottom  with  sliced  pineapple;  put  in  a  layer  of  peeled  sliced 
oranges,  then  sliced  bananas  and  then  a  few  slices  of  lemon; 
sifting  a  generous  supply  of  powdered  sugar  over  each  layer. 
Repeat  the  layers  until  the  dish  is  full  and  cover  with  chopped  nuts 
and  narrow  strips  of  the  puff-paste.  Bake  slowly  for  an  hour 
or  more. 

PEACH  CRUSTS 

Roll  puff-paste  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  cut  in  two-and-a- 
half-inch  squares  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Cool;  press  down  the 
centers  and  place  in  each  a  half  of  a  canned  peach,  drained  from 
its  syrup.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  squeeze  a  little 
lemon  juice  into  each  cavity. 

279  fc-fc 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


FRENCH  TART 

Roll  out  puff-paste;  cover  a  pie  dish  with  it;  turn  and  notch 
the  edge;  fill  the  crust  with  any  small  preserved  fruits,  jam  or 
marmalade;  cut  out  an  ornament  of  leaves  from  the  crust;  lay 
it  on  the  top  and  bake  for  about  half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

Pare  and  core  large  tart  apples.  Make  a  short  pie-crust;  roll 
thin  and  cut  into  squares  large  enough  to  cover  an  apple.  Place 
one  apple  in  the  center  of  each  square;  fill  the  cavity  with  sugar, 
cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg;  fold  the  corners  to  meet  at  the  top, 
pinching  the  edges  to  make  them  stick  together  and  hold  in  the 
juices.  Bake  until  the  apples  are  tender  and  serve  with  hard  or 
wine  sauce. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

ll/2  cups  cooked  pumpkin  1  tablespoon  flour 

%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  eggs  yz  CUP  sugar 

V4  teaspoon  salt 

Cut  the  pumpkin  in  small  pieces;  peel,  wash  and  steam  or  stew 
until  tender.  Mash  to  a  pulp;  cook  as  dry  as  possible  without 
scorching  and  rub  through  a  colander  or  coarse  sieve.  Mix  thor- 
oughly with  the  milk  and  other  ingredients;  pour  into  an  open 
crust  and  bake  slowly  for  forty  or  fifty  minutes.  Spices  may  be 
used  in  addition  to  the  vanilla  for  flavoring  if  desired. 

Squash  pie  may  be  made  from  this  recipe,  using  less  milk, 

RHUBARB  PIE 

ll/2  cups  rhubarb  1  egg 

%  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

Prepare  the  rhubarb  and  scald  it  as  for  stewing;  mix  with  the 
other  ingredients  and  bake  between  two  crusts, 


LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE 

1  cup  water  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  of  2  eggs 

Butter  size  of  1  egg  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Boil  the  water;    wet  the  cornstarch  and  stir  it  in;    boil  until 
clear  and  pour  on  tne  sugar  and  butter.    When  cool  add  the  lemoc 

280  *-* 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


and  egg  yolks  and  pour  into  a  pie  plate  lined  with  any  kind  of  paste 
preferred.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  having  the  greatest  heat  at  the 
bottom  of  the  oven.  When  nearly  done  cover  with  a  meringue 
made  from  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  two  teaspoons  of  granulated 
sugar  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown. 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE 

l/2  cup  milk  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

ll/2  teaspoons  cornstarch  Whites  of  3  eggs 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

Bake  the  pie  crust  first.  Heat  the  milk;  add  next  four  ingre- 
dients as  in  making  custard;  pour  this,  boiling,  upon  the  whites, 
beaten  light  and  mixed  with  the  three  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Pour 
into  the  crust  and  brown  slightly  in  a  hot  oven. 

RAISIN  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  flour  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons 
y-t  cup  molasses  1  cup  seeded  raisins 

Stir  the  flour  into  the  sugar;  then  add  the  other  ingredients 
in  the  order  named.  Bake  between  two  crusts,  slashing  the 
upper  one. 

CRANBERRY  TART 

ll/2  cups  cranberries  %  cup  sugar 

l/2  cup  water 

Wash  the  cranberries  and  cook  them  with  the  sugar  and  water 
for  ten  minutes.  Line  a  pie  plate  with  paste;  pour  in  the  cran- 
berries when  they  have  cooled;  moisten  the  edges  and  lay  narrow 
strips  of  paste  across  the  plate,  forming  diamond-shaped  spaces. 
Add  a  rim  of  paste;  press  into  flutings  with  the  finger  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven. 

CUSTARD  PIE 

2  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

3  tablespoons  sugar  l*/2  cups  milk 

Grated  nutmeg  or  cinnamon 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly;  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  milk.  Line  a 
pie  plate  with  paste;  strain  in  the  mixture;  sprinkle  grated  nut- 

281  L-L 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


meg  or  cinnamon  over  the  top  and  put  in  a  quick  oven.  When 
the  edge  of  the  crust  begins  to  brown  reduce  the  heat  and  bake 
till  the  custard  is  just  set. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD 
ll/2  cups  milk  2  eggs 

Sugar  to  taste  1  cup  grated  cocoanut 

Boil  the  milk;  sweeten  to  taste  and  cool.  Beat  the  eggs  sepa- 
rately and  then  together;  add  them  to  the  cocoanut  and  combine 
with  the  milk.  Bake  in  a  crust  like  custard  pie. 

CHEESE  CAKE 

1  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

Pinch  of  salt  2  eggs 

3A  cup  sugar  1  cake  cottage  cheese 

Scald  the  milk;  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  cornstarch  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  over  hot  water  until  the  mixture  thickens  ; 
then  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  last  the  cheese  cake,  mixed  with  a 
little  extra  milk.  Line  one  pie  plate  or  a  number  of  small  patty 
pans  with  paste;  fill  with  the  mixture  and  bake  until  the  cheese 
custard  is  firm. 

APPLE  PIE 

Pare,  core  and  slice  tart,  juicy  apples;  cook  them  in  as  little 
water  as  possible;  rub  through  a  colander;  add  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg  and  sugar  to  taste;  also  half  the  peel  of  a  grated 
lemon.  Bake  between  two  crusts,  using  half  puff-paste  or  plain 
paste, 

CHERRY  PIE 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  half  puff-paste  and  bake  until  delicately 
browned.  Cook  the  cherries  for  several  minutes  in  plenty  of 
sugar,  adding  no  water;  pour  them  into  the  crust;  cover  with 
paste  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BETHLEHEM  APPLE  TART 

Pare,  core  and  slice  juicy  tart  apples.  Line  a  pie  plate  with 
half  puff-paste;  put  in  layers  of  apples  and  sugar  until  the  dish  is 
very  full;  add  a  little  water;  drop  small  pieces  of  butter  over  the 

282  *-L 


^i: 


U 


HOW  TO   MAKE   PASTRY 

Mixing  the  Dough  Fluting  the  Crust  Health  Pie 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


top  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon.  Do  not  cover  with  crust  but 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  apples  are  tender.  If  the  crust 
bakes  before  they  are  tender  cover  with  an  inverted  pie  plate  to 
hasten  the  cooking  of  the  fruit. 

PEACH  PIE 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  half  puff-paste  and  fill  it  with  layers  of 
sliced  peaches  thickly  covered  with  sugar.  Heap  the  peaches 
well  in  the  middle;  cover  with  crust  and  bake. 

PEACH  TART 
Follow  the  recipe  for  Bethlehem  Apple  Tart. 

MINCE-MEAT 

r  pound  suet  3  cups  seeded  raisins 

2  pounds  lean  beef  1  cup  currants 

1  quart  chopped  apples  l/2  cup  molasses 

l/4  cup  candied  orange  peel  1  cup  sugar 

l/4  cup  candied  lemon  peel  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

l/2  pound  citron  l/2  teaspoon  allspice 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  */2  teaspoon  cloves 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange  1  nutmeg,  grated 
2l/2  cups  sweet  cider 

Let  the  meat  simmer  slowly  in  a  covered  kettle  until  tender; 
run  through  a  meat  chopper  and  mix  with  the  suet,  which  has 
likewise  been  put  through  the  chopper.  Add  the  other  ingredients 
in  the  order  named,  chopping  the  citron  and  orange  and  lemon 
peel  before  mixing.  Put  in  a  stone  crock;  cover  and  let  stand 
several  days  to  ripen.  Bake  in  plain  or  half  puff-paste  and  use 
puff-paste  for  the  top  crust. 

WASHINGTON  PIE 

V2  pound  butter  1  glass  sweet  cider 

V2  pound  sugar  Grated  rind  of  l/2  lemon 

5  eggs  Little  grated  nutmeg 

Vfe  pound  flour  Raspberry  jam 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
then  the  flour  alternately  with  the  beaten  whites;  last  add  the 
cider,  nutmeg  and  lemon.  Bake  in  two  layers;  fill  with  raspberry 
jam  half  an  inch  thick  and  sift  sugar  over  the  top.  Serve  for  des- 
sert, cut  like  pie. 

283  I--L 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


HEALTH  PIE 

A  pie  far  more  palatable  and  digestible  than  the  ordinary 
American  pie  is  made  by  using  an  earthen  or  porcelain  baking 
dish  and  omitting  the  bottom  crust.  Fill  the  dish  well  with  fruit 
and  sugar;  cover  with  paste  and  bake  as  usual. 

FANCY  SHORT  CAKE 

Puff-paste  makes  the  finest  short  cake.  Bake  the  crust  in  two 
rounds  and  arrange  them  in  layers,  buttering  each  and  covering 
thickly  with  fruit,  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon  if  liked.  Over 
the  top  layer  of  fruit  spread  whipped  cream  or  a  meringue  made  of 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar. 
If  the  meringue  is  used,  brown  slightly  in  the  oven.  Serve  cold 
with  cream. 

PLAIN  SHORT  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  butter 

About  %  cup  milk 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients;  rub  in  the  butter;  add  milk  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Roll  out  a  half  inch  thick  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
When  cold,  cut  open,  butter  and  spread  with  fruit  and  meringue 
as  directed  under  Fancy  Short  Cake. 

Strawberries  make  the  best  short  cake;  but  other  berries  and 
sliced  peaches  are  also  good.  For  recipe,  see  page  200. 


284 


SANDWICHES  AND  SAVORIES 


There  be  land-witches  and  water-witches, 

Pretty  witches  and  ugly  witches; 

Bui  no  witches  like  sandwiches  for  a  hungry  man. 

—Fables  of  a  Rolling  Pin. 


SANDWICHES  AND  SAVORIES 

FOR  the  automobile  trip,  for  picnics,  for  school  lunches,  for  the 
simple  home  luncheon,  and  for  light  refreshments  of  all  kinds, 
the  sandwich  is  in  constant  demand.  Like  the  salad,  it  is  capable 
of  infinite  variety,  but  there  are  certain  combinations  that  are 
worth  repeating  many  times,  and  these  will  offer  suggestions  for 
others. 

MEAT  SANDWICHES 

An  infinite  variety  of  meat  sandwiches  can  be  made — beef, 
lamb,  chicken,  ham,  tongue,  etc.  The  meat  may  be  sliced  thin 
and  placed  between  buttered  bread  or  minced  and  mixed  with 
mustard,  catsup,  Mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad  dressing. 

MEAT  FILLING  FOR  SANDWICHES 

1  tablespoon  butter  y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  flour  1/2  teaspoon  mustard 

1  cup  milk  Dash  of  red  pepper 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
1  cup  cold  meat 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  double  boiler;  stir  in  the  flour;  add  the 
milk  gradually;  then  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  seasoning. 
Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  lumps.  Remove 
from  the  fire;  cool  and  beat  in  the  lemon  juice;  then  add  the  meat, 
finely  chopped  or  ground. 


BOHEMIAN  SANDWICHES 

Chop  shrimps  very  fine  and  mix  them  to  a  paste  with  melted 
butter.  Season  with  lemon  juice,  Worcestershire,  salt  and  pepper. 
Spread  between  thin  slices  of  toast. 

287 


SANDWICHES  AND    SAVORIES 


ANCHOVY  SANDWICHES 

Pound  tne  anchovies  to  a  paste  and  mix  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  olives  stoned  and  finely  chopped. 

FIG  SANDWICHES 

Remove  the  stems  and  chop  the  figs  fine.  Put  in  a  double 
boiler  with  a  little  water  and  cook  until  a  paste  is  formed.  Add  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice;  set  aside;  when  cool  spread  on  thin 
slices  of  buttered  bread. 

DATE  AND  FIG  SANDWICHES 

Wash  equal  quantities  of  dates  and  figs;  stone  the  dates;  add 
blanched  almonds  in  quantity  about  one  fourth  of  the  entire  bulk; 
then  run  the  whole  mixture  through  a  meat  chopper.  Moisten 
with  orange  juice  and  press  tightly  into  baking  powder  tins.  When 
ready  to  use,  dip  the  box  in  hot  water;  turn  out  the  mixture; 
slice  and  olace  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

FRUIT  SANDWICHES 

Soak  any  kind  or  several  kinds  of  dried  fruit  in  water  for  two 
hours;  drain  and  dry  thoroughly;  moisten  with  orange  or  lemon 
or  a  little  grape  juice,  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

NUT  SANDWICHES 

Moisten  chopped  nuts  of  any  kind  with  cream  or  Mayonnaise 
dressing;  add  a  little  salt  and  spread  on  slices  of  brown  bread. 

NUT  AND  RAISIN  SANDWICHES 

Take  equal  quantities  of  nuts  and  raisins;  moisten  with  cream 
or  grape  juice  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 

OLIVE  SANDWICHES 

Take  either  ripe  or  green  olives;  remove  the  seeds;  mince  and 
mix  thoroughly  with  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Spread  between  slices 
of  whole-wheat  or  graham  bread. 


SANDWICHES  AND  SAVORIES 


LETTUCE  AND  CREAM-CHEESE  SANDWICHES 
Mix  equal  quantities  of  chopped  lettuce  and  cream  cheese;  add 
salt  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

LETTUCE  AND   WALNUT  SANDWICHES 

Mix  chopped  walnuts  with  Mayonnaise  dressing  and  spread  on 
thin  slices  of  bread;  lay  a  leaf  of  lettuce  over  each;  then  another 
slice  of  thin,  unbuttered  bread. 

LETTUCE  SANDWICHES 

Pull  the  lettuce  into  small  bits;  mix  thoroughly  with  Mayon- 
naise dressing  and  spread  between  layers  of  unbuttered  bread. 
Dp  not  make  until  near  serving  time  or  the  lettuce  will  lose  its 
cnspness. 

EGG  SANDWICHES 

Mix  hard-boiled  egg,  finely  chopped,  with  Mayonnaise  dressing 
and  spread  on  slices  of  buttered  bread,  preferably  graham. 
Chopped  olives  may  be  added  to  the  egg  mixture  if  desired. 

SURPRISE  SANDWICHES 

Take  orange  marmalade,  pecan  nuts  and  cream  cheese  in  equal 
quantities  and  after  mixing  thoroughly  spread  on  thin  slices  of 
buttered  bread. 

RIBBON  SANDWICHES 

Cut  two  slices  of  white  bread  and  two  of  brown.  Butter  three 
and  spread  with  a  thick  paste  made  of  hard-boiled  egg  very  finely 
chopped  and  mixed  with  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Build  the  slices 
up  one  above  the  other,  alternating  brown  and  white,  and  placing 
the  unbuttered  slice  on  top.  Before  serving,  slice  down  as  you 
would  a  layer  cake. 

SWEET  SANDWICHES 

Butter  thin  slices  of  bread  and  spread  with  any  kind  of  fruit 
jelly,  jam  or  marmalade.  For  variation  mix  the  preserves  with 
cream  cheese.  Currant  jelly  is  especially  good  in  this  combination, 

289 


SANDWICHES  AND   SAVORIES  pffiyS  9** 


MOCK  CRAB   SANDWICHES 

l/4  cup  grated  cheese  1  teaspoon  anchovy  paste 

l/4  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  chopped  olives 

l/4  teaspoon  paprika  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Vi  teaspoon  mustard  2  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  the  ingredients  to  a  cream  and  spread  between  thin  slices 
of  graham  or  white  bread. 

EGG  AND   OLIVE  SANDWICHES  No.  1 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  chopped  olives  Olive  oil  and  vinegar 

Chop  the  egg  and  mix  with  the  olives;  season  and  moisten  with 
olive  oil  and  vinegar.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread. 

EGG  AND   OLIVE  SANDWICHES  No.  2 

Yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  Salt  and  paprika 

4  chopped  olives  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  anchovy  essence 

Buttered  slices  of  bread 

Mix  the  eggs,  olives,  butter  and  seasonings  to  a  paste;  spread 
between  thin  slices  of  bread,  preferably  round. 

JAPAN  SANDWICHES 

Chop  raw  oysters  fine;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  horse- 
radish. Spread  a  little  on  a  thin  slice  of  buttered  bread;  add  a 
crisp  lettuce  leaf  and  a  second  slice  of  bread. 


CAVIAR  SANDWICHES 

Remove  the  crusts  from  thin  slices  of  bread;  spread  with  caviar 
mixed  with  lemon  juice;  roll  each  slice  and  fasten  with  a  tooth- 
pick or  serve  flat  as  usual. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES 

Skin  and  bone  the  sardines  and  mash  to  a  paste.  Season  with 
lemon  juice,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  and  spread  between  thin 
slices  of  bread. 

290  L-L 


SANDWICHES  AND  SAVORIES 


CHEESE  FILLING  FOR  SANDWICHES 

2  tablespoons  butter  *4  teaspoon  mustard 

2  tablespoons  flour  Salt  and  paprika 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  grated  cheese 

Melt  the  butter;  stir  in  the  flour;  then  add  the  milk  gradually 
and  let  it  cook  until  a  thick  paste  is  formed.  Take  from  the  fire; 
add  the  seasoning;  work  in  the  grated  cheese  and  set  away  until 
needed.  Except  in  very  warm  weather  this  will  keep  a  week. 

CLUB  SANDWICH 

2  slices  bread  2  slices  chicken  breast 
2  leaves  lettuce  2  slices  bacon 

Mayonnaise  dressing 

Toast  the  bread  to  a  delicate  brown  and  fry  the  bacon  crisp.  On 
one  slice  of  toast  place  lettuce  leaves,  covering  them  with  Mayon- 
naise; then  lay  on  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  the  bacon;  cover 
again  with  Mayonnaise;  put  on  the  second  slice  of  toast;  press 
down  and  cut  through  the  sandwich  diagonally.  Work  as  quickly 
as  possible  so  that  the  toast  and  bacon  may  be  hot  when  served. 

COMBINATION  SANDWICH 

2  slices  whole  wheat  bread  2  slices  Swiss  cheese 

2  slices  cold  boiled  ham  Butter 

Butter  the  bread.  On  one  slice  lay  the  slices  of  cold  ham;  then 
lay  on  the  cheese;  then  the  other  slice  of  bread  and  press  down 
firmly.  Cut  across  diagonally  and  serve. 

CINNAMON  TOAST 

Toast  thin  slices  of  bread  to  a  delicate  brown;  butter  evenly 
and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Serve  with 
afternoon  tea. 

EGG  TOAST 

1  egg  1  cup  milk 

l/4  teaspoon  salt  4  slices  bread 

Beat  the  egg  thoroughly  and  add  the  salt  and  milk.  Have  the 
bread  cut  in  thin  slices;  dip  them  in  the  milk,  allowing  each  to 
absorb  some.  Brown  in  a  buttered  frying  pan  or  on  a  griddle; 
butter  and  serve  hot  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  or  with  syrup. 

291  %-L 


SANDWICHES  AND   SAVORIES 


CHEESE   STRAWS 

Roll  out  plain  or  puff-paste  until  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick. 
Spread  one  half  with  grated  cheese;  fold  over  and  roll  again.  Re- 
peat the  process  three  or  four  times;  then  cut  into  strips  and  bake. 
Serve  with  soup  or  salad. 

SALTED  ALMONDS 

Pour  boiling  water  on  the  almonds;  cool  and  remove  tne  skins; 
dry  thoroughly  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven  using  a  half  tablespoon  of 
butter  or  olive  oil  (preferably  the  oil)  to  each  cup  of  nuts.  When 
brown,  sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  spread  on  paper  to  dry  and  cool. 

A  still  easier  way  to  prepare  the  nuts  is  to  cook  them  over  the 
fire,  using  a  larger  quantity  of  olive  oil.  As  the  oil  can  be  saved 
and  used  again,  this  method  is  not  necessarily  extravagant. 

SALTED  PEANUTS 

Shell  and  skin  freshly  roasted  peanuts  and  proceed  as  in  salting 
almonds. 


Savories  are  small  accompaniments  of  the  meal,  such  as  appe- 
tizers, relishes,  canapes,  small  sandwiches,  and  other  tasty  dishes, 
made  from  anchovy,  caviar,  sardines,  olives,  cheese,  etc. 


292 


CEREALS 


20 


i.  There  lay  the  secret  of  life  in  a  tiny  kernel  of  wheat — wrapped  as 
deep  in  mystery  as  an  Egyptian  mummy. 

—Quaint  Tales. 


294 


CEREALS 

^T^HE  cereal  grains — wheat,  corn,  rice,  oats,  rye,  barley — furnish 
•*•  the  principal  part  of  the  world's  food  supply,  being  culti- 
vated practically  everywhere  except  in  the  Arctic  regions.  They 
provide  about  one-quarter  of  the  food  consumed  by  the  average 
American  family.  The  word  cereal  is  derived  from  the  name  of 
the  Roman  goddess  of  grain — Ceres. 

In  the  grain  or  seed  kernels  of  tall  grasses  lie  the  living  germs 
of  the  plant,  surrounded  by  the  food  necessary  for  their  growth. 
It  is  this  food  which  supplies  the  world's  table  with  breakfast 
foods  and  cereal  foods  of  all  kinds.  The  cereal  grains  are  rich  in 
starch,*  and  supply  an  abundance  of  carbohydrate,  or  fuel-and- 
energy  food.  They  contain  also  much  protein,  or  muscle-forming 
food,  and  several  per  cent  of  fat  (oils),  in  addition  to  mineral 
salts  and  vitamins. 

With  whole  milk,  cereals  supply  the  elements  of  nutrition  in 
the  most  desirable  proportions,  and  make  excellent  breakfast 
foods.  As  with  all  starchy  foods,  thoroughness  of  cooking  is  a 
factor  which  has  an  important  bearing  upon  digestibility.  It  is 
unfortunate  that  cereals  are  so  often  served  for  breakfast  hurriedly 
prepared.  They  should,  whenever  possible,  be  cooked  over  night; 
and  for  this  reason  the  use  of  the  fireless  cooker  is  to  be  especially 
recommended.  The  ready-cooked  breakfast- foods  are  not  more 
digestible  than  any  thoroughly  cooked  cereal,  though  usually 
higher  in  price.  Where  there  is  no  fireless  cooker,  however,  and 
where  the  saving  of  fuel  is  to  be  considered,  they  are  not  necessarily 
more  expensive. 

OATMEAL  PORRIDGE 

As  oatmeal  is  ground  in  different  grades  of  coarseness,  the  time 
for  cooking  varies  and  it  is  best  to  follow  the  directions  given  on 
the  packages.  The  meal  should  be  cooked  until  soft,  but  should 

295  x-i. 


CEREALS 


not  be  mushy.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  the  required  time.  Keep 
covered  until  done;  then  remove  the  cover  and  let  the  moisture 
escape. 

OATMEAL  WITH   CHEESE 

1  cup  oatmeal  1  teaspoon  salt 

Water  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  grated  cheese 

Cook  the  oatmeal  over  night  and  just  l>efore  serving  add  the 
butter  and  cheese.  Stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted  and  serve  at 
once. 

BAKED   APPLE   WITH   OATMEAL 

Pare  and  core  the  apples  and  fill  the  core  space  with  left-over 
oatmeal  mush.  Put  the  apples  in  a  baking  dish;  sprinkle  with 
sugar;  pour  a  little  water  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  the  apples  are  tender.  Serve  warm  with 
cream  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 


WHEAT   CEREALS 

Wheat  cereals,  like  oatmeal,  are  best  cooked  by  following  the 
directions  on  the  package.  Most  of  them  are  greatly  improved 
by  the  addition  of  a  little  milk  or  by  ja  few  chopped  dates  or 
whole  sultana  raisins. 


CORN-MEAL  MUSH 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  cold  water  1  pint  boiling  water 

Mix  together  the  corn  meal  and  salt  and  add  the  cold  water 
gradually,  stirring  until  smooth.  Pour  this  mixture  into  the 
boiling  water  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  from  three  to  five  hours. 
Serve  hot  with  cream  and  sugar. 

FRIED   MUSH 

Pour  hot  corn  meal  into  a  square  dish  that  has  been  rinsed  in 
cold  water.  When  the  mush  is  cold  cut  it  into  slices  one  hah*  inch 
thick ;  dust  with  flour  and  fry  a  delicate  brown .  Serve  wit  h  syrup . 

296  "   M, 


Planneu  for* 
Family  of  Four 


BOILED  RICE 

I  2  cup  rice  2  quarts  water 

1  tablespoon  salt 

Put  the  rice  in  a  strainer;  place  the  strainer  over  a  bowl  nearly 
full  of  cold  water;  rub  the  rice;  lift  the  strainer  from  the  bowl  and 
change  the  water.  Repeat  the  process  until  the  water  in  the  bowl 
is  clear.  Have  the  two  quarts  of  water  boiling  briskly;  add  the 
rice  and  salt  gradually  so  as  not  to  check  the  ebullition;  boil 
twenty  minutes  or  until  soft;  drain  through  a  colander  and  place 
the  colander  over  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes  to  steam.  Every 
grain  will  be  distinct  and  tender. 

If  desired,  the  rice  may  be  brought  to  a  boil  in  a  little  milk 
instead  of  being  steamed,  though  in  this  case  the  grains  may  not 
remain  separate. 

Serve  as  a  vegetable  with  butter  and  salt,  or  as  a  cereal  with 
cream  and  sugar. 

RICE  IN  MILK 

II  2  cups  hot  milk  %  cup  rice 

\2  teaspoon  salt 

Clean  the  rice  as  for  boiling  in  water;  and  cook  with  the  milk 
and  salt,  adding  a  few  seeded  or  sultana  raisins  if  desired.  Serve 
hot  like  boiled  rice  or  press  into  small  cups,  cool  and  serve  with 
cream  and  sugar. 

FARINA 

3  tablespoons  farina  1  pint  boiling  water 

1  2  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler  for  about  one  hour. 

HOMINY 

1  cup  hominy  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  quarts  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  cream 

Get  the  unbroken  hominy  and  after  careful  washing  soak  it 
twenty-four  hours  in  the  water.  Cook  slowly  in  the  same  water 
in  a  covered  vessel  for  eight  hours  or  until  all  the  water  has  been 
absorbed  by  the  hominy;  add  the  butter,  salt  and  cream  and  serve 
as  a  vegetable  or  as  a  cereal  with  sugar  and  cream. 

297  i-i 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


TO   USE  LEFT-OVER  CEREALS 

Cold  cooked  cereal  Peaches,  apples  or  pears 

Chop  the  cold  cooked  cereal  quite  fine.  Butter  a  deep  pudding 
dish.  Spread  a  layer  of  cereal  on  the  bottom.  Cover  with  sliced 
fruit.  Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Continue  in  this  manner  until  dish 
is  filled.  Cover  top  with  cracker  crumbs,  buttered.  Bake  until 
well  browned.  Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 


298 


CANDY 


*Tis  an  ill  cook  that  cannot  lick  his  own  fingers. 

— SHAKESPEARE. 


300 


CANDY 

THE  "sweet  tooth"  is  increasing  in  size  in  America.     Sugar 
is  a  valuable  food;  and  pure  candies,  rightly  used,  are  good 
for  children.     The  best  time  to  eat  candy  is  toward  the  end  of  a 
meal.      Its  abuse  is  in  much   munching   between   meals,  which 
destroys  the  appetite  for  more  needed  food. 

FONDANT 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  cup  water 

l/4  saltspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Put  the  ingredients  in  a  copper  or  granite  saucepan;  stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  but  no  longer.*  Boil  until  the  mixture  makes 
a  very  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  After  it  has  boiled 
a  few  minutes  sugar  will  adhere  to  the  sides  of  the  kettle:  this 
should  be  washed  off  as  soon  as  it  forms,  with  the  hand  first  dipped 
in  cold  water.  Pour  the  mixture  slowly  on  a  moist  marble  slab  or 
large  platter;  let  it  cool  until  pressure  with  the  finger  leaves  a  dent 
on  the  surface.  If  stirred  while  too  warm  or  if  cooked  too  long  it 
will  granulate  and  must  be  recooked,  adding  more  water.  When 
it  will  dent  work  the  mass  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  spatula,  keep- 
ing the  mass  in  the  center  as  much  as  possible.  Continue  to  stir 
until  creamy;  then  work  with  the  hands  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Put  in  a  bowl;  cover  with  oiled  paper  to  exclude  the  air  and  let 
stand  for  twenty-four  hours. 

Make  into  balls  for  cream  chocolates  and  centers  of  walnut 
creams,  date  creams,  etc.,  adding  flavoring  as  desired.  For  cocoa- 
nut  creams  stir  in  grated  or  dried  cocoanut. 

QUICK  FONDANT 

White  of  1  egg  Confectioners'  sugar 

Flavoring 

Beat  the  egg  very  stiff;  stir  in  as  much  confectioners'  sugar  as 
the  egg  will  hold;  flavor  and  mold  into  small  balls. 

*  A  candy  thermometer  does  away  with  much  guesswork.  Special  directions 
are  usually  furnished  with  such  conveniences. 

301  L-L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


CHOCOLATE  CREAMS 

Roll  fondant  into  balls;  dip  them  in  melted  chocolate  and  stand 
them  to  dry  on  waxed  paper. 

The  necessary  utensils  are  a  wire  fork  and  a  very  small  double 
boiler.  The  chocolate  when  melted  should  come  nearly  to  the 
top  of  the  inner  boiler.  Melt  the  chocolate;  cool  to  about  80°  F.; 
drop  a  ball  of  fondant  into  the  chocolate;  with  a  fork  push  it  below 
the  surface;  remove  carefully  with  the  fork. 


CHOCOLATE  CREAM  MINTS 

Melt  fondant  over  hot  water;  flavor  with  oil  of  peppermint  and 
drop  from  the  tip  of  a  spoon  on  waxed  paper.  When  cool  dip  in 
melted  chocolate  as  directed  under  the  recipe  for  Chocolate  Creams. 


NOUGAT 

White  of  1  egg  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  cold  water  Confectioners'  sugar 

2  pounds  chopped  nuts 

Beat  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  the  water  and  stir  in  enough 
sugar  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Turn  out  on  a  molding  board  well 
dusted  with  confectioners'  sugar,  and  work  the  nuts  into  the  paste. 
Roll  out  to  the  thickness  of  one  half  inch;  cut  into  strips  a  half 
inch  wide  and  an  inch  and  a  half  long  and  put  on  waxed  paper  to 
dry. 

MOLASSES  CANDY  No.  1 

J/2  cup  molasses  iVfe  tablespoons  vinegar 

ll/2  cups  sugar  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

l/2  cup  boiling  water  l/4  cup  butter 
Pinch  of  soda 

Bring  the  molasses,  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  to  a  boil  and  add 
the  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  until  a  little  of  the  mixture  becomes 
brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  When  nearly  done  add  butter 
and  soda  and  stir  constantly.  Pour  into  buttered  tins;  mark  off 
in  squares  and  set  aside  to  harden;  or  cool  slightly  and  pull,  but- 
tering the  hands  first  and  adding  a  few  drops  of  flavoring  if  desired. 
Pull  until  the  candy  is  light;  roll  into  sticks  and  set  a«de  to  cool. 

302  fc-i, 


Planned  Tor  a  r\  *  TvrT\ V 

Family  of  Four L/AJNJJl 

MOLASSES  CANDY  No.  2 

2  cups  molasses  y2  cup  vinegar 

1  cup  sugar  Butter  size  of  egg 

Put  the  molasses,  sugar  and  vinegar  in  a  pan  and  boil  until  the 
mixture  hardens  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  into  but- 
tered pans;  mark  into  squares  and  set  aside  to  harden;  or  cool 
slightly:  butter  the  hands  and  pull  the  candy  until  it  is  light. 

CINNAMON  CANDY 

1  pound  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

1  cup  water  12  drops  oil  of  cinnamon 

Boil  the  mixture  until  a  little  of  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold 
water;  pour  into  shallow  buttered  tins  and  stand  them  in  cold 
water,  turning  the  edge  of  the  candy  until  it  cools.  Add  the  oil  of 
cinnamon;  pull  until  white  and  put  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 
When  cold  pack  in  an  airtight  vessel  and  leave  over  night. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH 

1  cup  sugar  y2  cup  butter 

1  cup  molasses  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Boil  all  the  ingredients  together  until  the  syrup  will  snap  when 
tested  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  buttered  tins  and  when  nearly 
cold  cut  into  small  squares  and  wrap  each  in  paraffin  paper. 

PINOCHE 

3  cups  light  brown  sugar  l/2  cup  butter 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  nut  meats 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  sugar  and  milk  over  the  fire;  when  hot  add  the  butter; 
boil  and  stir  until  the  mixture  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in 
cold  water.  Add  nuts  and  flavoring  and  beat  until  the  sugar  begins 
to  granulate.  Pour  into  buttered  tins;  mark  in  squares  and  set 
aside  to  cool. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 
1  quart  roasted  peanuts  1  pound  granulated  sugar 

Shell  the  peanuts;  remove  the  skins  and  roll  them  or  run  them 
through  the  meat  chopper.  Melt  the  sugar  over  the  fire;  add  the 

303 


r*  A  TVTTk V  Planned  for  a 

WUN  JJ  I  Family  of  Four 

peanuts;  mix  and  turn  out  on  a  greased  marble  slab  or  large 
greased  tin.  Roll  quickly  with  an  ordinary  rolling  pin  that  has 
been  well  greased;  cut  into  squares  and  break  apart. 

PRALINES 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  V2  cup  cream 

1  cup  maple  syrup  2  cups  nut  meats 

Boil  the  sugar,  maple  syrup  and  cream  together  until  a  little 
dropped  in  cold  water  will  form  a  soft  ball.  Remove  from  fire; 
beat  till  creamy;  add  the  nuts  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered 
paper  or  tins. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

1  cups  granulated  sugar  Butter  size  of  egg 

l/2  CUP  ntilk  2  ounces  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  the  mixture  until  it  will  make  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in 
water.  Remove  from  the  fire;  beat  until  thick,  adding  the  vanilla 
while  beating.  Pour  into  buttered  pans;  mark  in  squares  and  set 
aside  to  cool. 

COCOA  FUDGE 

Make  the  same  as  chocolate  fudge,  substituting  three  table- 
spoons of  cocoa  for  the  two  ounces  of  chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS 

1  pound  sugar  */fc  cup  milk 

6  tablespoons  syrup  molas  Butter  size  of  walnut 

2  ounces  chocolate  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  together  the  sugar,  molasses,  chocolate  and  milk  until  the 
aaixture  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  When  nearly  done 
add  the  butter;  flavor  after  the  candy  is  taken  from  the  fire. 

COCOAWT  BUTTER  SCOTCH 

*/2  cup  shredded  cocoanut  3  ounces  butter 

t/2  Bound  brown  sugar  3  teasooons  water 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  the  sugar,  butter  and  water  into  a  saucepan ;  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  stirring  only  occasionally.  Stir  in  the  cocoanut;  test  by 

304 


Planned  for  a  p  A  TVm  V 

Family  of  Four  V^AIi  ±J  I 

dropping  a  spoonful  in  cold  water.  If  the  mixture  hardens  re- 
move from  fire;  add  flavoring;  pour  into  buttered  tins;  mark  off 
in  squares  and  stand  away  to  harden. 

CREAM  PEPPERMINTS 

2  cups  sugar  0  tablespoons  water 

Pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  10  drops  oil  of  peppermint 

Put  the  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  water  in  a  granite  saucepaA 
and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  ten  minutes;  remove 
from  fire;  add  peppermint  and  beat  until  the  mixture  thickens; 
then  drop  from  a  spoon  on  buttered  paper. 

MEXICAN  CARAMELS 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  cup  brown  sugar 

ll/2  cups  milk  or  cream 

Melt  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  but  do  not  let  it  brown;  when 
a  syrup  add  the  milk  or  cream,  then  the  remainder  of  the  sugar, 
stirring  constantly.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  solid  ball  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.  Pour  out  into  a  shallow  pan,  the  bottom  of  which 
lias  been  well  greased  with  butter;  mark  off  in  squares  and  set 
aside  to  cool. 

POP-CORN  BALLS 

Boil  syrup  molasses  for  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes;  stir  into 
it  corn  that  has  been  carefully  popped;  pour  out  on  buttered  tins 
and  with  greased  hands  form  into  balls. 

Puffed  wheat  and  rice  may  be  made  into  balls  in  the  same  way, 

FRUITS  GLACE 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  water 

Washed  fruit 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  becomes  brittle  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Dip  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  and  set  in  a  cooj 
place. 

NUTS  GLACfi 

^  Follow  the  recipe  for  fruits  glace.     Put  each  nut  on  a  long  pia: 
dip  it  carefully  and  lay  on  oiled  paper, 

305 


P  A  "N"H V  Planned  for  a 

^All     ** Family  of  Four 

CANDIED  LEMON  AND   ORANGE  PEEL 

Lemon  and  orange  peel  if  saved  can  be  put  to  excellent  use. 
Take  out  the  greater  portion  of  the  white  inside;  throw  the  rinds 
into  boiling  water  and  simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain, 
weigh  and  take  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  peel.  Put  a 
layer  of  sugar  and  a  layer  of  fruit  into  the  preserving  kettle;  stand 
it  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  sugar  melts.  When  melted,  cook 
slowly  until  the  rincia  are  transparent.  Lift  them  out;  drain  them 
and  when  nearly  dry  roll  in  granulated  sugar. 

MARSHMALLOWS 

4  ounces  pulverized  gum  arable  1  cup  pulverized  sugar 

1  cup  cold  water  Pinch  of  salt 

Flavoring  to  taste 

Soak  the  gum  arable  in  the  water  for  two  hours;  put  in  a  double 
boiler;  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  when  the  gum  is  dis- 
solved strain  through  coarse  muslin.  Return  to  the  double  boiler 
with  the  sugar  and  stir  long  and  steadily  until  the  mixture  is  stiff 
and  white.  Remove  from  the  fire;  beat  hard  for  a  minute;  flavor 
to  taste  and  beat  for  a  minute  more.  Pour  into  tins  well  dusted 
with  cornstarch,  cut  into  squares  and  roll  in  cornstarch  and  sugar. 

DIVINITY 

6  tablespoons  hot  water  White  of  1  egg 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  ounce  walnut  meats 

1  ounce  chopped  raisins 

Boil  together  the  first  two  ingredients  until  a  little  of  the  mix- 
ture forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Beat  the 
white  of  the  eggs  as  stiff  as  possible;  add  walnuts  and  raisins  and 
pour  the  syrup  over  the  eggs,  beating  constantly.  When  the  mix- 
ture will  stand  alone  drop  from  a  teaspoon  upon  paraffin  paper. 

ORANGE  PASTE 

4  level  tablespoons  gelatine  1  orange 

iVa  cups  water  1  lemon 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  Confectioners'  sugar 
Cornstarch 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  haH  of  the  water;  bring  the  sugar  to  a  boil 
in  the  other  half  and  combine  the  two.  Boil  slowly  but  steadily 

306  *-t, 


Planned  for  a  p  A  NT> V 

Family  of  Four Vx  Ail  Lf  I 

for  twenty  minutes;  add  the  grated  rind  of  the  orange  and  the 
juice  of  lemon  and  orange,  making  a  half  cup  in  all.  Rinse  a  tin  in 
cold  water;  pour  in  the  mixture  to  the  depth  of  one  inch.  When 
the  paste  is  firmly  set  immerse  the  mold  in  warm  water;  turn  out 
the  paste;  cut  in  cubes  and  roll  in  a  mixture  of  confectioners'  sugar 
and  cornstarch. 

The  paste  may  be  varied  by  using  different  fruit  juices,  flavor- 
ing and  coloring. 

KARO   CANDY 

l/2  cup  cream  lJ/2  cups  brown  sugar 

1  cup  Karo  syrup  l/2  tablespoon  butter 

l/2  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Boil  together  the  cream,  syrup  and  sugar.  Test  by  dropping  a 
little  in  cold  water,  and  when  almost  done  add  the  butter  and  wal- 
nuts. Remove  from  fire;  beat  until  creamy;  empty  into  a  but- 
tered pan;  mark  off  in  squares  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

COCOANUT  CONES 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  cup  shredded  cocoanut 
l/4  cup  sugar                                           White  of  1  egg 

Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch  together;  add  the  cocoanut  and 
the  white  of  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Form  into  small  cones 
and  lay  at  equal  distances  on  stiff  paper  or  on  a  greased  baking  tin. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm. 

HOARHOUND  CANDY 

Hoarhouud  2  pounds  sugar 

2  cups  boiling  water  White  of  1  egg 

Pour  the  water  on  as  much  hoarftound  as  it  will  cover;  steep  it 
on  a  slow  fire  for  several  hours;  then  strain  and  put  the  same  water 
on  a  fresh  supply  of  hoarhound  and  steep  as  before.  Add  enough 
boiling  water  to  make  a  full  pint;  strain  and  when  cold  add  the 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  the  sugar.  Boil  it  slowly  until  thick,  re- 
moving the  scum  that  rises.  Test  by  dropping  from  a  spoon  into 
cold  water:  when  it  hardens  quickly  it  is  done.  Pour  into  buttered 
tins;  mark  off  in  small  squares  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold 
break  it  up  and  put  it  in  glass  jars. 


307 


P  A  WT»  V  Planned  for  * 

l< AiN  JJ  I Family  of  Four 

WALNUT  KISSES 

1  cup  brown  sugar  l/4  cup  cold  water 

l/2  CUP  granulated  sugar  White  of  1  egg 

Shelled  walnuts 

1.  Boil  sugars  and  water  together  until  a  few  drops  harden  when 

dropped  into  cold  water. 
°2.  Beat  white  of  egg  stiff. 

3.  Pour  the  sugar  very  slowly  upon  the  white  of  egg,  beating  all 

the  time. 

4.  Butter  a  platter. 

5.  Drop  by  tablespoonfuls  on  the  platter. 

6.  Put  a  half  walnut  on  each  little  mound  or  "kiss." 

— The  Mary  Frances  Cook  Book. 


308 


FRUIT 


21 


Doubtless,  the  Lord  could  have  made  a  better  berry  than  the  strau> 
berry;  but  doubtless  he  never  did. 

WALTON. 


310 


FRUIT 

^  I  ^IIE  old  saying,  "an  apple  a  day  keeps  the  doctor  away,"  had 
-»-  a  better  foundation  than  the  people  who  originated  its  trite- 
ness realized,  for  only  by  very  recent  experimentation  has  it  been 
found  what  an  important  place  fruit  has  in  the  diet,  not  only  for 
bulk  or  roughage,  but  for  the  mineral  substances  and  vitamins 
so  essential  to  health.  The  juices  of  lemons,  oranges  and  grape 
fruit  are  particularly  rich  sources  of  vitamins. 

So  from  those  who  advocate  a  diet  of  cereals,  fruits,  and  nuts  to 
those  who  enjoy  three  "square"  meals  a  day,  people  are  coming 
more  and  more  to  realize  the  importance  of  fruit  in  the  daily  meal. 
In  general  it  may  be  said  that  fruits  are  wholesome,  palatable, 
and  attractive  additions  to  the  menu.  Fresh  fruits,  of  course,  are 
largely  composed  of  water;  but  dried  fruits  and  many  preserves 
are  much  more  concentrated,  comparing  favorably  with  cereals 
and  dried  vegetable  foods.  Fruits  contain  carbohydrates,  con- 
siderable mineral  matter  and  acid,  and  when  eaten  raw  do  much 
to  stimulate  a  sluggish  digestion. 

Several  methods  of  preparing  fruit  for  the  table  will  be  discussed 
in  this  chapter  and  others  will  be  found  in  the  chapters  on  "Appe- 
tizers," "Puddings  and  Desserts,"  "Salads,"  and  "Canning  and 
Preserving." 

BAKED  APPLES 

Wash  and  core  and  if  desired  pare  the  apples.  Place  them  in 
a  shallow  baking  dish  and  fill  the  cavities  with  sugar,  sugar  and 
spice,  sugar  and  seeded  raisins,  or  sugar  and  chopped  nuts. 
Sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  the  apples;  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  pan  with  water  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes  or  until 
tender.  Serve  with  cream  or  with  lemon  sauce. 

APPLE   SAUCE 

See  chapter  on  "Sauces." 

311  I^L 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


FRIED  APPLES 

Cut  slices  a  hah*  inch  thick  across  the  apple,  removing  neither 
skin  nor  core;  or  cut  the  apples  in  quarters,  removing  both  skin 
and  core.  Saute  them  in  butter  or  drippings  until  tender;  serve 
with  crisp  bacon. 

STEWED  PEACHES 

Pare  and  quarter  the  peaches,  discarding  the  stones.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  water;  cook 
four  minutes;  add  the  peaches  and  cook  until  tender. 

Pears,  plums  and  apricots  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way, 
though  the  plums  may  require  more  sugar. 

BAKED  PEACHES 

Plunge  the  peaches  into  boiling  water  to  loosen  the  skins. 
Remove  the  skins;  cut  the  peaches  in  half,  discarding  tne  stones, 
and  lay  them,  cut  side  up,  in  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Fill  the 
cavities  with  butter  and  sugar,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  a 
sprinkling  of  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Bake  twenty  minutes  and 
serve  on  buttered  toast  or  crackers. 

BAKED   PEARS 

Wash  the  pears,  and  unless  they  are  small  quarter  and  core 
them.  Place  them  in  a  deep  pudding  dish,  well  sprinkled  with 
sugar.  Add  water  sufficient  to  keep  them  from  burning;  cover 
and  bake  for  two  or  three  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  If  desired,  a 
piece  of  stick  cinnamon  may  be  put  in  the  pan  with  the  pears; 
this  will  improve  the  flavor. 

BAKED   QUINCES 

Wash,  quarter,  core  and  pare  the  quinces.  Place  them,  cut 
side  up,  in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  filling  the  cavities  with  sugar, 
mixed  with  a  little  grated  lemon  rind  or  lemon  juice.  Cover 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  soft,  basting  frequently.  Serve  hot  with  butter  and  sugar. 

STEWED  QUINCES 

Wash  the  quinces,  pare  and  core  them  and  cut  them  into 
eighths.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  let  them  come  slowly  to  a 

312  u-i. 


Planned  tor  &  FPTTTT 

Family  of  Four I?  IX.  U 11 

boil,  removing  the  scum  that  rises.  When  nearly  soft  add  one 
cup  of  sugar  for  every  pint  of  fruit  and  one  cup  of  apples,  pared 
and  cut  into  eighths.  Boil  until  both  apples  and  quinces  are 
tender. 

STEWED   RHUBARB 

Select  the  strawberry  rhubarb  in  preference  to  the  white; 
wash  it,  and  unless  it  is  very  old,  do  not  peel  it.  Simply  remove 
the  ends  and  cut  the  stalk  into  small  pieces.  Pour  boiling  water 
on  the  rhubarb;  drain  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
covering  it  well  with  sugar  and  adding  only  enough  water  to  keep 
it  from  burning.  Cook  until  soft  but  not  until  the  pieces  have 
lost  their  identity.  The  quantity  of  sugar  will  have  to  be  varied 
according  to  the  age  of  the  rhubarb. 

STEWED   BLACKBERRIES 

Wash  and  stem  the  blackberries;  add  a  little  water  and  stew 
until  tender.  Just  before  they  are  done  sweeten  to  taste. 

Some  cooks  thicken  the  juice  with  a  little  cornstarch  thinned  in 
water.  If  this  is  done  the  blackberries  must  boil  for  an  extra 
minute  or  two  until  the  cornstarch  is  cooked. 

STEWED  RASPBERRIES 
Follow  the  recipe  for  Stewed  Blackberries. 

STEWED  CHERRIES 

Select  pie  cherries,  preferably  the  morello  cherries;  stone  them 
or  not  as  desired  and  follow  the  directions  for  Stewed  Black- 
berries. 

STEWED  CRANBERRIES 
See  chapter  on  "Sauces." 

DRIED  FRUITS 

To  cook  dried  fruits  thoroughly  they  should  after  careful  wash- 
ing be  soaked  over  night.  Next  morning  put  them  over  the  fire 
in  the  water  in  which  they  have  been  soaked;  bring  to  a  boil; 
then  simmer  slowly  until  the  fruit  is  thoroughly  cooked  but  not 
broken.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Very  much  less  sugar  will  be  needed 
than  for  fresh  fruit. 

313  L-L 


FRUIT  Planned  for  a 
_ __ Family  of  Four 

If  desired  cook  a  little  stick  cinnamon  or  other  spice  with  the 
fruit.  Pears,  which  are  apt  to  be  insipid,  are  especially  improved 
by  this  addition. 

LEMON  BUTTER  No.  1 

l/2  cup  sugar  1  lemon 

1  ounce  butter  1  egg 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  and  add  the  beaten  egg; 
then  add  the  lemon,  juice  and  rind,  and  stir  over  hot  water  until 
the  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from  fire  and  stir  until  cool. 

LEMON  BUTTER  No.  2 

V2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

l/2  tablespoon  cornstarch  y2  cup  water 

1  lemon  1  egg 

Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch;  add  the  juice  and  rind  of  the 
lemon  and  the  butter;  then  add  the  water  and  cook  over  hot 
water  until  the  cornstarch  clarifies.  Pour  the  mixture  on  the 
beaten  egg,-  return  to  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 


314 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 


*  We  eat  what  we  can;  and  what  we  can'Z,  we  can." 

—The  Punster. 


316 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 

IT  is  said  that  modern  canning  was  first  thought  of  when  a  jar 
of  perfectly  preserved  fruit  was  found  embedded  in  a  heap  of 
lava  among  the  ruins  of  Pompeii.  Very  evidently  the  heat  of  the 
molten  lava,  together  with  the  exclusion  of  air,  had  kept  the  con- 
tents of  the  jar  from  "spoiling. "  So  experiments  were  tried,  and 
for  many  years  it  was  thought  that  exclusion  of  air  would  "keep" 
food.  But  scientists  have  proved  that  floating  about  in  the  air 
there  are  billions  of  billions  of  micro-organisms  known  as  yeasts, 
molds,  and  bacteria,  which  attack  foods  and  cause  fermentation 
or  "spoiling."  And  it  may  be  added,  in  passing,  that  not  all 
such  tiny  organisms  are  destructive,  but  many  are  helpful,  doing 
such  things  as  making  milk  into  cheese,  changing  cider  to  vinegar, 
and  performing  a  multiplicity  of  other  beneficial  services  for 
mankind. 

The  secret  of  successful  canning  and  preserving  lies  in  destroy- 
ing the  micro-organisms  which  "spoil"  food.  Yeasts  and  molds 
are  killed  at  a  temperature  of  160°  F.  Bacteria  are  destroyed  at 
212°  F.,  or  the  boiling  point.  If  this  temperature  is  maintained 
the  proper  length  of  time,  they  are  rendered  sterile,  or  incapable 
of  growing  or  reproducing,  or  of  throwing  off  spores  which  in  turn 
will  develop  into  bacteria.  Spores  are  more  difficult  to  kill  than 
bacteria ;  therefore,  if  the  heat  does  not  penetrate  the  whole  mass 
some  parts  may  not  be  sterilized  and  will  ferment. 

Methods. — There  are  two  methods  of  sterilizing  commonly  used 
in  home  canning:  the  cold-pack;  and  the  open-kettle,  or  hot-pack. 

The  cold-pack  method  is  greatly  to  be  preferred,  because  the 
food  is  packed  in  the  containers  before  cooking,  and  is  not  touched 
again  with  spoons  or  other  utensils.  In  the  open-kettle  method, 
the  food  is  cooked  before  it  is  put  into  the  jars,  and  there  is 

317  L-L 


CANNING  AND   PRESERVING 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


always  danger  of  bacteria  and  spores  being  introduced  on  spoons 
and  other  utensils.  The  simplicity  of  the  cold-pack  method  re- 
commends it.  Fruits  are  put  in  syrups.  Vegetables  require 
only  salt  for  flavoring  and  water  to  fill  the  containers. 

THE   COLD-PACK  METHOD 

In  the  cold-pack  process,  after  the  jars  are  filled  with  the  pre- 
pared food,  they  are  placed  in  the  apparatus  to  be  used  for  sterilizing. 
^^^  People  who  do   home   canning   may 

choose  from  among  several  types  of 
apparatus,  according  to  their  needs  and 
means. 

1.  The  Hot-Water-Bath  Canner—A 
serviceable  cold-pack  canning  outfit  may 
be  made  of  equipment  found  in  almost 
any  household.  A  wash-boiler,  or  any 
tight-covered  utensil,  which  is  deep 
enough  to  allow  the  water  to  reach  to 


WASH-BOILER  WITH  RACK  FOR 
JARS 


HOME-MADE  RACK  FOR  WASH- 
BOILER 


the  tops  of  the  jars  when  a  false  bottom 
is  beneath  them,  may  be  used  for  sterili- 
zation. A  wire  or  wooden  rack,  or  a  milk- 
carrier,  makes  a  good  false  bottom, 
permitting  the  water  to  circulate  under- 
neath the  jars.  Several  inexpensive 
canners  of  this  type  are  on  the  market. 

2.  The  Water-heal  Conner. — This  is  much  more  desirable 
than  the  above,  as  the  period  of  sterilization  is  shorter  and  less 
fuel  is  required;  and  less  water  is  needed,  making  lifting  lighter. 

The  water-seal  canner  consists  of  two  con- 
tainers, one  fitting  within  the  other,  and 
a  cover  which  extends  into  the  space 
between  the  outer  and  inner  container. 
The  water-jacket  thus  formed  makes  it 
possible  for  the  temperature  within  the 
container  to  be  raised  above  212°  F.,  and 
since  steam  is  hotter  than  boiling  water, 
is  more  quickly  accomplished.  Such  outfits  are 
not  expensive. 

Steam-Pressure  Canners. — Canning  is  very  rapid  when  sterili- 
zation is  done  in  steam  maintained  at  a  pressure.  There  are  several 
canners  of  this  type.  Each  has  a  pressure  gauge  and  safety-valve; 

318  L-L 


A  WATER-SEAL  OUTFIT 
sterilization   is   more   quickly 


CANNING   AND   PRESERVING 


and  they  carry  from  five  to  thirty  pounds  of  steam-pressure.  They 
are  made  of  aluminum  and  of  iron;  and,  when  properly  equipped, 
are  very  satisfactory  either  for  canning  or  for  general  cooking. 

Utensils.  —  It  is  important  to  plan  so  that  whatever  may  be 
needed  will  be  ready  for  use.  For  home  canning,  glass  jars  are 
more  satisfactory  than  tin.  All  types  of  jars  which  seal  readily 
may  be  used.  Those  having  glass  tops  are  much  more  satisfactory 
than  those  with  screw  caps.  The  new  "  Victory"  jar  is  to  be 
preferred  to  all  others,  having  a  wide  mouth,  glass  top,  and  no 
curves. 

Tests  for  Jars.  —  Jars  should  be  tested  before  they  are  used. 
With  glass  top,  fit  cover  to  jar.  If  top  rocks  when  tapped  it  should 
not  be  used  on  that  jar.  If  the  wire  clamp  is  either  too  tight  or  too 
loose  it  should  be  taken  off  and  bent  until  it  goes  into  place  with 
a  light  snap.  All  sharp  edges  on  top  and  jar  should  be  filed  or 
scraped  off.  With  screw-top  jars,  screw  the  top  on  lightly  without 
the  rubber.  If  thumb  nail  can  be  inserted  between  top  and  jar, 
the  cover  is  defective.  If  the  edge  is  only  slightly  uneven  it  can 
be  bent  so  that  it  is  usable.  Put  on  the  rubber,  and  screw  top 
on  tightly,  and  then  pull  the  rubber  out.  If  the  rubber  returns 
to  place,  the  top  does  not  fit  properly,  and  should  not  be  used  on 
that  jar. 

Tests  for  Rubbers.  —  Buy  new  rubbers  every  year,  as  they  dete- 
riorate from  one  season  to  another.  A  good  rubber  will  return  to 
its  original  size  when  stretched.  WTien  pinched  it  does  not  crease. 
It  should  fit  the  neck  of  the  jar  snugly,  and  be  fairly  wide  and 
thick.  It  is  cheaper  to  discard  a  doubtful  rubber  than  to  lose  a 
jar  of  canned  goods. 

Preparation.  —  There  are  certain  essentials  for  the  successful 
canning  of  fruits  or  vegetables.  These  include  clean,  fresh 
materials,  perfect  containers,  good  rubber  rings,  heating  for 
sufficient  time  to  insure  preservation,  and  air-tight  sealing.  These 
essentials  must  be  secured  in  any  method  of  canning. 

Definitions  of  Terms.  —  The  most  important  steps  in  the  cold- 
pack  method  are:  (1)  blanching;  (2)  cold-dipping;  (3)  packing 
in  clean  containers,  adding  hot  water  or  syrup  at  once,  then 
immediately  half  sealing;  and  (4)  processing  in  the  sterilizer. 
Spoilage  of  food  is  nearly  always  due  to  carelessness  in  one  of 
these  steps. 

1.  Blanching  consists  in  plunging  the  fruits  or  vegetables  into 
boiling  water,  or  exposing  them  to  steam  for  a  short  time.  This 
is  necessary  with  all  vegetables  and  some  fruits.  It  insures 

319  L-L 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 


thorough  cleansing,  and  removes  objectionable  odors  and  flavors 
and  excess  acids.  It  starts  the  flow  of  coloring  matter;  it  reduces 
the  bulk  of  greens,  and  causes  shrinkage  of  fruits,  increasing  the 
quantity  which  may  be  packed  in  a  container. 

For  blanching  in  boiling  water,  place  the  food  in  a  wire  basket 
or  piece  of  cheesecloth.     The  blanching  time  varies  from  one  to 
fifteen  minutes,  as  shown  in  the  time-table  on 
page  323,  and  the  products  should  be  kept 
under  water  the  whole  period. 

Spinach  and  other  greens  should  not  be 
blanched  in  hot  water,  but  in  steam  to  pre- 
vent the  loss  of  the  mineral  salts,  volatile  oils, 
and  other  valuable  substances.  Place  such 
vegetables  in  a  colander  and  set  this  in  a  ves- 
sel which  has  a  tightly  fitting  cover.  In  this 
BLANCHING  GREENS  m  vessel  there  should  be  an  inch  or  two  of  water, 

but  it  should  not  touch  the  greens. 
In  canning  berries  and  all  soft  fruits,  blanching  is  dispensed  with. 

2.  Cold-dipping.  —  When  the  blanching  is  complete  remove  the 
vegetables  or  fruits  and  plunge  them  once  or  twice  into  cold  water  — 
the  colder  the  better.      The  cold  dip  hardens  the  pulp  under  the 
skin  so  that  the  products  are  not  injured  by  peeling.     It  also  sets 
the  coloring  matter.     Do  not  allow  the  products  to  stand  in  cold 
water. 

Always  blanch  and  cold-dip  only  enough  material  to  fill  one  or 
two  jars  at  a  time. 

3.  Packing  into  jars  should  immediately  follow.     Cover  contents 
with  boiling  water  or  syrup  (see  page  321).    As  soon  as  the  jar  is 
filled,  put  the  rubber  and  cap  in  place.     With  glass-top  jars  place 
the  wire  that  clamps  on  the  cover  just  up  to  the  first  glass  eleva- 
tion —  not  between  the  two  glass  elevations,  as  this  might  make 
too  great  pressure,  causing  the  lid  to  break. 

With  Mason  jars,  screw  top  on  with  thumb  and  little  finger 
which  will  not  be  strong  enough  to  make  it  too  tight. 

4.  Processing  is  the  sterilization  treatment.     In  using  the  hot- 
water-bath  canner,  count  from  the  time  the  water  begins  to  boil. 
The  water  should  be  hot  when  the  jars  are  put  in.     With  the  water- 
seal  canner,  count  when  the  thermometer  reaches  214°  F.     There 
is  a  clever  little  device  substituted  for  a  thermometer  on  some 
water-seal  outfits.     It  is  a  whistle  which  blows  when  the  water  is 
hot  enough  for  beginning  to  count  time.     Special  directions  are  sup- 
plied with  steam  pressure  canners  and  aluminum  pressure  cookers. 

320  I^L 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 


.4  reliable  alarm  clock,  set  to  ring  at  the  end  of  the  sterilization 
period,  is  a  great  convenience. 

HOW  TO  PROCEED 

Vegetables.  —  Prepare  vegetables  by  blanching  and  cold  dipping. 
Pack  jars  to  within  an  inch  of  top.  Add  one  level  teaspoonful 
salt  to  each  quart  jar.  Fill  with  boiling  water.  Process  according 
to  time-table  for  sterilizing. 

Fruits.  —  With  some  exceptions,  as  shown  in  the  time-table  on 
page  323,  fruits  should  be  blanched  before  canning.  When  fruits 
are  intended  for  table  use,  syrup  should  be  poured  over  them  to 
fill  the  jars.  Consult  time-table  for  length  of  time  to  sterilize. 

Syrups.  —  Three  grades  of  syrups  are  used  in  canning,  according 
to  the  degree*  of  sweetness  desired  : 

Thin  ........  1  part  sugar  to  4  parts  water. 

Medium  .....  1  part  sugar  to  2  parts  water. 

Thick  .......  1  part  sugar  to  1  part  water. 

Boil  until  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Use  thin  syrup  with  sweet  fruits. 
Use  medium  syrup  with  sour  fruits. 
Thick  syrup  is  used  in  preserving. 

SUMMARY 

1.  Prepare  vegetables  or  fruits. 

2.  Blanch  and  cold-dip. 

3.  Pack  in  jars,  using  a  wooden  paddle  to  place  pieces  in  position. 

4.  Fill  jars  with  hot  water  or  syrup. 

5.  Partly  seal  jars  and  place  them  in  the  sterilizer.    If  hot-water 
bath  is  used,  have  a  hot  bath  deep  enough  to  reach  within  an  inch 
of  covers.     Count  time  from  when  water  begins  to  boil. 

G.  Process  according  to  time-table,  page  323. 

7.  Remove  jars  as  soon  as  time  is  up,  and  tighten  covers.  Do 
not  further  tighten  covers  of  screw  cap  jars  after  the  jars  have 
become  cold,  as  heat  softens  the  rubber  and  makes  it  stick,  forming 
a  seal.  Tightening  the  top  after  cooling  may  break  the  rubber 
seal,  letting  into  the  jar  some  germ-laden  air.  Occasionally  the 
cover  will  cut  off  the  outer  edge  of  a  rubber,  but  it  will  do  no  harm 
if  the  rubber  is  under  the  edge  so  that  a  seal  may  be  formed. 

*  A  saccharometer,  or  sugar  gauge,  does  away  with  guess-work  as  to  the  density 
of  syrups. 

321  L-L 


CANNING  AND   PRESERVING 


If  for  any  reason  a  cover  is  removed,  return  the  jar  to  the  canner  to 
be  re-sterilized,  for  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

8.  Set  jars  upside  down  to  test  for  leakage.      Cover  with  a 
towel,  for  a  draft  of  air  may  cause  sudden  contraction  which  will 
break  the  glass. 

9.  Wash  each  jar,  label  and  store  away  in  a  dry  place,  dark,  if 
possible,  to  prevent  change  of  color.     Paper  wrappings  not  only 
exclude  light,  but  prevent  mold  which  causes  rubber  to  decay. 

NOTE.  —  All  jars  should  be  washed  thoroughly.  If  jars  that 
have  contained  spoiled  material  are  to  be  used,  special  care  should 
be  taken  in  cleansing  them.  Do  not  use  the  water  in  which  they 
have  been  washed  for  washing  other  jars.  Sterilize  them  and  their 
covers  by  boiling*  one  hour,  or  "process"  in  a  steam-pressure 
cooker  from  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes.  If  the  jars  are  of  the  metal 
screw-cap  type,  use  new  lids. 

TIME-TABLE  FOR  BLANCHING  AND  STERILIZING 

The  following  time-table  shows  blanching  time  for  various 
vegetables  and  fruits,  and  also  sterilizing  time  in  the  hot-water-bath 
canner,  and  in  equipment  for  sterilization  by  the  water-seal  method, 
the  steam-pressure  method  and  the  steam-cooker  method. 

The  time  given  in  this  table  is  for  quart  jars.  Add  30  minutes 
for  two-quart  jars  and  deduct  5  minutes  for  pint  jars. 

The  time  given  is  for  fresh,  sound  and  firm  vegetables.  Increase 
the  time  of  sterilization  by  adding  one-fifth  for  vegetables  which 
have  been  gathered  more  than  24  hours. 

The  time  given  is  for  altitudes  up  to  1000  feet  above  sea  level. 
For  higher  altitudes  increase  the  time  in  hot-water  bath  10  per 
cent  for  each  additional  500  feet.  For  example,  if  the  time  is 
given  as  120  minutes  in  the  table  and  your  location  is  1500  feet 
above  sea  level,  the  time  should  be  made  132  minutes. 

Neither  home-made  nor  commercial  hot-water-bath  outfits  are 
entirely  satisfactory,  however,  for  canning  at  very  high  altitudes, 
as  the  temperature  of  water  in  them  does  not  reach  212°  F.  In 
such  localities  water-seal  and  steam-pressure  outfits  are  advisable, 
as  they  give  higher  temperatures. 

At  nigh  altitudes  the  boiling  point  of  water  is  below  212°  F. 
At  moderate  elevations  satisfactory  results  may  be  obtained  in 
the  use  of  the  hot-  water  bath  by  increasing  the  time  of  sterilization 
10  per  cent. 

~  *  See  "Open  Kettle  Method." 

322  M 


Planned  for  a 
Family  of  Four 


CANNING   AND    PRESERVING 


VEGETABLES. 

BLANCHING. 

STERILIZING. 

Hot 

Water. 

Water 

"  Seal. 

Steam  Pressure 
in  Pounds. 

5  to  10 

10  to  15 

Asparagus  
Beets  
Brussels  sprouts  
Cabbage  
Cauliflower 

Minutes 
10  to  15 
5 
5  to  10 
5  to  10 
3 
5 
5  to  10 
15 
5  to  10 
5  to  10 
5 
5  to  10 
5  to  10 
5 

Minutes 
1-20 
90 
120 
120 
60 
90 
180 
120 
180 
120 
90 
120 
180 
90 
120 
120 
22 

20 
16 
16 
16 
16 
'16 
16 
16 
16 
12 
20 
16 
16 
30 
20 
16 
20 
16 
30 

Minutes 
90 
80 
90 
90 
40 
80 
120 
90 
120 
90 
80 
90 
120 
80 
90 
90 
18 

12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
8 
12 
12 
12 
15 
12 
12 
15 
12 
20 

Minutes 
60 
60 
60 
60 
30 
60 
90 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
15 

8 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
6 
8 
10 
10 
10 
8 
10 
15 
10 
12 

Minutes 
40 
40 
40 
40 
20 
40 
60 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
10 

Carrots  
Corn  
Greens  
Lima  Beans  
Okra.  
Parsnips  . 

Peppers,  sweet  or  hot  .  . 
Peas  
Salsify 

Sour-crout  

String  beans 

5  to  10 

To  loosen  skins 

IM 

1  to    2 
none 
none 
none 
none 
none 
none 
1  to    2 
1  to  2 

iyz 

To  loosen  skins 
none 
3  to    5 

*H 

none 

Tomatoes  

FRUITS. 
Apples  

Apricots  

Blackberries  

Blueberries 

Dewberries  

Cherries,  sweet  

Cherries,  sour  
Currants  

Gooseberries  

Oranges  

Pears 

Peaches  
Plums  .  .  . 

Pineapples  
Quinces  

Raspberries  

Rhubarb  

Strawberries  

none 

Fruits  without  sugar  

OPEN-KETTLE   METHOD 

Canning  in  the  preserving  kettle  is  less  satisfactory  than  by  the 
cold-pack  method;  but  is  sometimes  considered  easier,  especially 
for  small  fruits,  and  it  must  be  used  in  making  jams,  marmalades, 
etc.,  because  some  evaporation  is  necessary  to  reduce  the  products 
to  the  right  consistency.  Cook  the  fruit  according  to  the  direc- 
tions and  see  that  all  jars,  covers  and  utensils  are  carefully  sterilized. 

To  sterilize  saucepans,  spoons,  jars,  covers,  straining  bags,  and 

323  L-L 


CANNING  AND   PRESERVING  Pne 


Famof 


other  articles,  put  them  over  the  fire  in  cold  water,  heat  gradually, 
and  let  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  The  jars  must  be  taken 
one  at  a  time  from  the  boiling  water,  and  not  until  the  moment 
each  is  to  be  filled.  When  ready  to  put  the  fruit  in  the  jars,  put 
a  broad  skimmer  under  one,  lift  it  and  drain  off  the  water.  Set 
it  in  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water  or  wrap  it  well  in  a  heavy 
towel  wrung  out  of  boiling  water;  fill  to  overflowing  with  the 
fruit  and  slip  a  silver-plated  knife  around  the  inside  of  the  jar  to 
make  sure  that  fruit  and  juice  are  solidly  packed.  Wipe  the  rim 
of  the  jar;  dip  the  rubber  ring  in  boiling  water,  place  it  on  the 
jar;  cover  and  remove  the  jar,  placing  it  upside-down  on  a  board, 
well  out  of  drafts  until  cool.  Then  tighten  the  covers,  if  screw 
covers  are  used;  wipe  the  jars  with  a  wet  cloth,  and  stand  on 
shelves  in  a  cool,  dark  closet. 

The  success  of  canning  depends  upon  absolute  sterilization  and 
not  upon  the  amount  of  sugar  or  cooking.  Any  proportion  of 
sugar  may  be  used,  or  fruit  may  be  canned  without  the  addition 
of  any  sugar.  Juicy  fruits,  such  as  berries  and  cherries,  require 
little  or  no  water. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS 

Never  use  old  rubbers  or  lids  that  are  bent,  and  be  sure  that  lids 
are  boiled  and  rubbers  dipped  in  boiling  water  one  at  a  time  just 
before  using. 

Fruit  must  be  carefully  picked  and  washed,  and  all  stems  re- 
moved, and  only  as  much  as  can  be  cooked  while  it  still  retains 
its  color  and  crispness  should  be  prepared.  If  practicable  pare  the 
fruit  with  a  silver  knife.  Peaches,  plums,  and  tomatoes  may  be 
readily  skinned  after  a  three-minute  plunge  in  boiling  water. 
Where  fruit  like  quinces  and  hard  pears  must  be  first  boiled  in 
clear  water,  the  fruit  should  be  dropped  in  cold  water  made  slightly 
acid  with  lemon  to  keep  the  fruit  from  discoloring. 

When  fruit  is  preserved  with  a  large  amount  of  sugar  (a  pound 
of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit)  it  does  not  need  to  be  sealed  in  air- 
tight jars;  because  bacteria  do  not  readily  form  in  the  thick, 
sugary  syrup.  It  is,  however,  best  kept  in  small  sealed  jars,  since 
molds  are  very  likely  to  form. 

Under  no  circumstances  should  preserving  powders  be  used.  In 
most  cases  they  are  injurious,  and  in  any  case  are  the  resort  of  the 
cook  who  is  too  lazy  to  take  the  proper  precautions. 

NOTE.  —  In  most  of  the  following  recipes  for  canning,  directions 

324  L-I, 


Famiiydof°Foaur CANNING  AND   PRESERVING 

are  given  for  the  Open-Kettle  Method;   but  in  almost  every  case 
the  canning  may  be  better  done  by  the  Cold-Pack  Method. 


CANNED   APPLE   SAUCE 

Cut  tart  apples  into  eighths,  removing  cores.  Put  them  in  the 
preserving  kettle  with  one  cup  of  water  for  each  quart  apples. 
Cover,  and  let  cook  gently  until  tender.  Press  through  a  colander 
to  remove  skins.  Re-heat  in  the  preserving  kettle,  allowing  one- 
quarter  cup  sugar  to  each  pint  of  apple  sauce.  Stir  to  prevent 
burning.  Fill  hot  sterilized  jars  to  overflowing  and  seal  immedi- 
ately. If  desired,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon  may  be  added  with  the 
sugar. 


CANNED   PEARS 

Pears  should  be  firm  to  retain  their  form  after  cooking.  It  is 
not  necessary  to  pare  them.  Cut  in  halves;  remove  cores.  Drop 
into  cold  water  to  prevent  their  turning  dark  in  color.  Weigh 
them.  Put  one-third  their  weight  of  sugar  in  the  preserving 
kettle.  Add  one  pint  water  to  each  pound  sugar.  Boil  five 
minutes.  Add  the  pears.  Cook  gently  until  skin  is  readily 
pierced  with  a  straw  splint.  Pack  into  hot  sterilized  jars,  filled 
to  overflowing  with  the  boiling  syrup.  Seal  immediately.  Do 
not  attempt  to  cook  many  pears  at  one  time,  for  those  that  are 
cooked  too  long  crumble  and  lose  their  form.  Many  people  add 
a  few  slices  of  lemon,  or  a  piece  of  ginger  root  for  additional  flavor. 
Bartlett  pears  are  best  for  canning. 


CANNED   RASPBERRIES 

6  quarts  berries  1  quart  sugar 

Put  one  quart  of  the  fruit  in  the  preserving  kettle;  heat  slowly, 
crushing  with  a  wooden  potato  masher;  strain  and  press  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Return  the  juice  and  pulp  to  the  kettle;  add  the 
sugar;  stir  until  dissolved;  then  add  the  remaining  quarts  of 
berries.  Boil  ten  minutes,  counting  from  the  time  they  begin  to 
boil.  Skim  well  while  boiling,  and  put  into  jars  as  directed. 

22  325  L-L 


CANNING  AND   PRESERVING 


CANNED  BLACKBERRIES 

Follow  the  recipe  for  raspberries. 

RASPBERRIES  AND   CURRANTS 

5  quarts  raspberries  3  pints  currants 

5  cups  sugar 

Heat,  crush  and  press  the  currants  through  a  sieve  as  directed 
in  the  recipe  for  raspberries;  add  the  sugar  and  when  the  syrup 
begins  to  boil  add  the  raspberries.  Proceed  as  with  raspberries. 

CANNED  CURRANTS 

6  quarts  currants  2  quarts  sugar 

Follow  the  recipe  for  raspberries. 

CANNED  BLUEBERRIES 

6  quarts  berries  1  pint  sugar 

1  cup  water 

Put  berries,  sugar  and  water  in  the  preserving  kettle;  bring 
to  a  boil  slowly  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 

CANNED      CHERRIES 

6  quarts  cherries  3  Dints  sugar 

l/2  pint  water 

Measure  the  cherries  after  the  stems  have  been  removed; 
stone  them  or  not,  as  desired.  Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  the 
preserving  kettle  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  the 
cherries;  bring  slowly  to  a  boil  and  cook  ten  minutes. 

CANNED  GRAPES 

6  quarts  grapes  1  quart  sugar 

l/2  cup  water 

Squeeze  the  pulp  out  of  the  skins;  cook  for  five  minutes;  rub 
through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  retain  the  seeds;  return  to  the 
preserving  kettle  with  the  water  and  skins;  bring  slowly  to  the 

)iling  point,  removing  the  scum.     Cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 

326  L-L 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 


CANNED   RHUBARB 

Wash  the  rhubarb  thoroughly  in  pure  water;  cut  it  into  pieces 
and  pack  it  in  sterilized  jars.  Cover  with  cold  water;  let  it  stand 
ten  minutes;  pour  off  the  water;  fill  again  to  overflowing  with 
fresh  cold  water;  seal  with  sterilized  rubber  rings  and  covers,  and 
set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 


CANNED  GOOSEBERRIES 

6  quarts  berries  3  pints  sugar 

1  **nt  water 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water,  using  three  pints  of  sugar  if 
the  gooseberries  are  green  and  only  half  the  quantity  if  they  are 
ripe.  Add  the  fruit  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 

Green  gooseberries  may  also  be  canned  like  rhubarb  without 
sugar  and  sweetened  when  used. 


CANNED  PLUMS 

4  quarts  plums  1  quart  sugar 

1  cup  water 

Wash,  drain  and  prick  the  plunis.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar 
and  water;  put  part  of  the  fruit  in  the  boiling  syrup;  cook  five 
minutes;  fill  and  seal  the  jars.  Put  more  fruit  in  the  syrup; 
remove  and  continue  the  process  until  all  the  fruit  has  been 
cooked. 

CANNED  PEACHES 

8  quarts  peaches  1  quart  sugar 

3  quarts  water 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water;  bring  to  a  boil;  skim  it 
and  draw  the  kettle  aside  where  the  syrup  will  keep  hot  but  not 
boil. 

Pare  the  peaches,  cutting  them  in  half  or  not  as  desired.  If 
in  half  leave  one  or  two  whole  peaches  for  every  jar,  as  the  kernel 
improves  the  flavor.  Put  a  layer  of  fruit  in  the  kettle;  when  it 
begins  to  boil  skim  carefully;  boil  gently  for  ten  minutes;  put 
in  jars  and  seal.  Then  cook  more  of  the  fruit  in  similar  fashion. 
If  the  fruit  is  not  fully  ripe  it  may  require  a  longer  time  to  cook. 

327  L-L 


CANNING  AND   PRESERVING 


CANNED   PEARS 

Follow  the  recipe  for  canning  peaches.     See  also  recipe,  page  325. 

CANNED  CRAB  APPLES 

3  quarts  apples  3  cups  sugar 

I  quart  water 

Boil  the  syrup  and  skim  it;  add  the  fruit  and  cook  gently  until 
tender.  It  will  take  from  twenty  to  fifty  minutes,  according  to 
the  kind  of  apple. 

CANNED  QUINCES 

2  quarts  quinces  3  cups  sugar 

1  quart  water 

Wash  and  drain  the  quinces;  pare,  quarter  and  core  them  and 
drop  the  pieces  into  cold  water  to  which  a  little  lemon  juice  has 
been  added.  Put  the  fruit  over  the  fire  with  cold  water  to  cover 
it;  heat  slowly  and  simmer  gently  until  the  fruit  is  tender.  With 
a  silver  fork  remove  each  piece  as  soon  as  it  is  tender  and  drain 
them  on  a  platter.  Strain  the  water  in  which  the  fruit  was  cooked; 
put  one  quart  of  it  in  the  kettle  with  the  sugar;  bring  to  a  boil 
and  skim.  Add  the  cooked  fruit  and  boil  gently  for  about  twenty 
minutes. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLE 

Select  ripe  fruit;  pare  and  remove  the  eyes;  slice  them  in  half- 
inch  slices  and  cut  each  slice  into  quarters.  Fill  the  jars  with 
fruit,  within  an  inch  of  the  top.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water 
in  the  proportion  of  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water;  fill  the  jars 
with  this  up  to  the  top  and  process  by  the  cold-pack  method. 
See  time-table  for  length  of  period  of  sterilization. 

CANNING  VEGETABLES 

In  canning  vegetables  the  same  precautions  must  be  observed 
as  in  canning  fruit  and  it  is  safer  to  use  jars  that  have  either  glass 
tops,  or  tops  without  porcelain  lining.  Corn  should  be  pressed 
or  cut  from  the  cob  and  packed  at  once  into  jars,  and,  in  order  to 
insure  its  keeping,  the  cold-pack  method  should  be  followed. 
See  directions  on  page  318. 

Peas  may  be  packed  in  the  same  way  as  corn,  but  each  jar  must 
be  filled  with  water;  string  beans  require  a  shorter  period  of 

328  L-L 


gimiiydof0Four CANNING  AND   PRESERVING 

cooking,  but  the  jar  manipulation  is  the  same.     See  time-table, 
page  323.     Add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  to  each  jar  of  vegetables. 

CANNED   TOMATOES 

Wash  the  tomatoes  and  plunge  them  in  boiling  water  for  about 
five  minutes.  Pare  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces;  put  them  in 
the  preserving  kettle  over  the  fire  and  heat  slowly,  stirring  fre- 
quently to  prevent  their  sticking,  and  removing  the  scum  that  rises. 
Boil  for  thirty  minutes,  counting  from  the  time  the  whole  mass 
begins  to  boil.  Put  in  sterilized  jars  and  seal.  If  canning  by  the 
cold-pack  method,  blanch,  cold  dip,  and  peel  tomatoes;  pack  the 
best  into  the  jars.  Put  the  imperfect  and  broken  pieces  in  the 
preserving  kettle.  Boil  ten  minutes.  Strain,  and  pour  over  the 
tomatoes  packed  in  the  jars.  Add  one  teaspoon  salt  to  each  jar. 
Process  in  sterilizer  according  to  time-table. 

CANNED   MUSHROOMS 

Wash  the  mushrooms  carefully,  but  do  not  peel  them.  Pack 
them  closely  in  glass  jars;  adjust  the  rubbers,  and  lay  the  lids  on 
loosely.  Stand  the  jars  in  the  sterilizer.  Cover.  If  hot-water- 
bath  canner  is  used,  bring  the  water  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil 
one  hour  and  a  half.  If  water-seal  canner  is  used,  boil  one  hour. 
If  steam-pressure  canner  is  used,  boil  thirty  minutes.  By  this 
time,  the  mushrooms  will  have  wilted  down;  so  fill  two  jars  by 
means  of  a  third.  Fill  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  boiling  water. 
Return  to  sterilizer  and  process  one-half  hour, 

PRESERVING  FRUIT 

Some  fruits,  such  as  strawberries,  sour  cherries,  sour  plums, 
etc.,  are  better  preserved  with  a  large  amount  of  sugar  than 
simply  canned.  They  are  richer,  however,  and  cannot  be  eaten 
in  such  abundance  as  canned  fruits.  The  object  in  making  pre- 
serves is  to  have  the  fruit  permeated  with  a  syrup  sufficiently 
dense  to  prevent  the  entrance  of  bacteria.  The  cooking  should 
be  done  slowly,  below  the  boiling  point,  until  both  fruit  and  the 
surrounding  syrup  are  clear  and  transparent. 

A  thick  coating  of  paraffin  makes  a  good  cover.  Melt  the 
paraffin  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  cold  preserves.  Allow  the  paraffin 
to  become  cold  before  covering  the  glasses  with  the  lids.  Wipe 
the  outside  of  the  glasses,  label,  and  store  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

329 


CANNING  AND   PRESERVING  pl3SS?S  SK.5 


Family  of  Four 


ORANGE  MARMALADE 


1  dozen  oranges  Vz  dozen  lemons 

Sugar  and  water 

Select  fruit  that  is  firm  and  not  too  ripe.  Omit  the  lemons  if 
preferred.  With  a  sharp  knife  slice  the  fruit  very  thin,  throwing 
away  the  ends  and  removing  the  seeds.  Weigh,  and  to  each 
pound  of  fruit  add  two  pints  of  cold  water.  Let  this  stand  over 
night;  then  boil  the  fruit  in  the  same  water  until  it  is  tender. 
Remove  from  the  fire;  weigh  again;  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit 
and  liquid  add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  until  the  fruit  is  trans- 
parent and  the  juice  a  rich  syrup. 

SPICED   CURRANTS 

5  pounds  currants  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

4  pounds  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  cloves 

1  pint  vinegar 

Wash  the  currants  and  remove  the  stems.  Place  them  with 
the  other  ingredients  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil  gently  for 
two  hours.  This  makes  five  pint  cans. 

PRESERVED   YELLOW  TOMATOES 

4  pounds  small  yellow  tomatoes  l/2  cup  boiling  water 

3  pounds  sugar  Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon 

Wash  and  dry  the  tomatoes  and  prick  each  one  in  five  or  six 
places.  Stir  the  sugar  in  the  water  until  dissolved;  add  the 
tomatoes  and  cook  until  clear.  When  half  done  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  the  rind  sliced  very  thin.  When  the  fruit  is  clear, 
remove  it  with  a  skimmer;  put  in  small  jars,  filling  them  two- 
thirds  full.  Boil  the  syrup  fast  for  a  few  minutes  longer  or  until 
thick  and  syrupy;  fill  up  the  jars;  cover  with  a  cloth  until  the 
next  day;  then  cover  closely  and  stand  away  in  a  cool  place. 

RAISIN  COMPOTE 

3  navel  oranges  3  pints  currants 

ll/2  pounds  seeded  raisins  3  cups  cold  water 

3  cups  sugar 

Prepare  the  oranges  as  for  marmalade  and  let  them  soak  over 
night  in  the  water.  In  the  morning  pick  and  wash  the  currants 

332  L-L 


CANNING  AND   PRESERVING 


and  add  them  with  the  washed  raisins  and  sugar  to  the  oranges; 
boil  hard  for  about  two  hours  and  put  in  glass  jars,  closing  them 
while  hot.  Serve  with  meat. 

SPICED  PEARS 

4  pounds  fruit  l/2  ounce  whole  allspice 

3  pounds  sugar  J/2  ounce  whole  cloves 

1  pint  vinegar  Vfe  stick  cinnamon 

Tie  the  spices  in  a  small  cheesecloth  bag;  boil  ten  minutes  with 
the  vinegar  and  sugar.  Skim,  add  fruit  and  cook  until  tender. 
Remove  the  fruit;  boil  down  the  sugar  and  vinegar  until  syrupy; 
pour  over  the  fruit  in  jars  and  seal. 

Peaches,  grapes,  plums,  cantaloup,  quinces,  watermelon  rind 
and  cucumbers  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

PICKLED  CHERRIES 

1  pound  sugar  1  pint  vinegar 

Remove  all  specked  cherries.  Wash  and  stem.  Bring  vinegar 
to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved.  The 
cherries  may  be  thrown  into  the  boiling  liquid,  simmered  three 
minutes,  and  put  into  sterilized  jar;  but  the  cold-pack  method  is 
much  better.  Use  the  vinegar  syrup  in  place  of  plain  syrup  as 
directed.  Process  five  minutes. 

The  morello  cherries  are  most  satisfactory  for  pickling,  and 
can  be  used  in  many  places  instead  of  maraschino  cherries  for 
decorating  and  flavoring. 

CITRON  PRESERVE 

6  pounds  citron  rind  l!/2  quarts  water 

6  pounds  sugar  4  lemons 

l/4  pound  ginger  root 

Peel  and  cut  the  rind  into  pieces  of  uniform  size,  rejecting  all 
the  seeds.  Tie  the  ginger  root  in  a  piece  of  muslin  so  that  it  can  be 
readily  removed.  Put  the  sugar,  water,  lemon  juice  and  ginger 
hi  a  kettle;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  syrup  clear. 
Remove  any  scum  that  rises  and  take  out  the  bag  of  ginger.  Add 
the  citron  and  cook  until  it  is  clear  but  not  soft  enough  to  fall 
apart.  Pour  into  sterilized  jars  and  seal  while  hot. 

The  ginger  may  be  omitted  if  the  flavor  of  ginger  is  not 
Uked, 

333  i,-L 


CANNING  AND   PRESERVING 


APPLE  BUTTER 

5  quarts  apple  pulp  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

10  quarts  new  sweet  cider  1  teaspoon  ground  allspice 

Brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 

The  apples  should  be  tart  and  the  cider  not  more  than  two 
days  old.  Boil  the  cider  down  one  half  before  measuring;  put 
the  pared  and  cored  apples  through  a  fruit  press;  measure  them 
and  add  to  the  cider.  Cook  slowly,  stirring  frequently,  and  when 
the  butter  begins  to  thicken  sweeten  to  taste  with  brown  sugar. 
Continue  cooking  until  of  the  consistency  of  soft  jam;  pack  while 
hot  in  sterilized  jars  or  glasses  and  keep  in  a  cool  place» 

PEACH  BUTTER 
4  pounds  peaches  2  pounds  sugar 

Select  ripe  peaches  and  peel  and  stone  them  before  weighing. 
Cut  them  in  pieces  and  put  them  through  a  fruit  press.  Put 
over  the  fire  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  cook  slowly  until  of  the 
consistency  of  marmalade,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  stick- 
ing. Add  the  sugar;  stir  until  dissolved;  cook  rapidly  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  place  the  kettle  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  and 
keep  warm  until  the  butter  is  of  the  desired  consistency.  Pack 
in  jars  or  tumblers. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI 

Preserve  the  various  fruits  as  they  come  in  season,  following 
the  recipe  for  Preserved  Strawberries  on  page  372,  and  sealing  in 
separate  jars.  When  the  desired  number  of  fruits  have  been 
preserved,  empty  all  into  the  preserving  kettle;  mix  well;  bring 
to  a  boil  and  when  cool  put  into  glass  jars  or  tumblers.  Pineapple, 
cherries,  peaches,  apricots,  white  grapes  and  the  berries  are  the 
best  fruits  to  use. 

JELLY-MAKING 

To  be  successful  in  jelly-making  it  is  necessary  to  understand 
a  few  of  the  simple  underlying  principles.  The  making  of  jelly 
is  possible  through  the  presence  in  the  fruit  of  pectin,  a  carbo- 
hydrate, somewhat  similar  in  its  properties  to  starch.  This 
element  exists  in  largest  quantities  in  the  following  fruits:  cur- 
rant, apple,  quince,  grape,  blackberry  and  raspberry;  so  that 
these  fruits  are  preferred  for  jelly-making.  Moreover,  the  pec- 

334  u-i. 


CANNING  AND   PRESERVING 


tin  is  at  its  best  when  the  fruit  is  just  ripe  or  a  little  under-ripe. 
Last,  it  must  be  remembered  that  if  the  juice  ferments  or  if  the 
cooking  of  the  jelly  is  continued  too  long,  the  pectin  undergoes  a 
change  and  loses  its  power  of  gelatinizing. 

After  insuring  the  presence  of  the  pectin,  the  matter  of  next 
importance  is  to  add  the  right  quantity  of  sugar.  The  rule  is  to 
measure  the  juice  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar;  but  the 
rule  must  be  followed  with  discretion.  If  the  fruit  contains  an 
unusual  percentage  of  sugar,  less  sugar  should  be  added;  if  it 
is  less  sweet  than  usual,  more  should  be  added  to  make  up  the 
deficiency.  The  sugar  will  dissolve  more  quickly  if  first  heated 
in  a  moderate  oven,  and  will  then  in  no  way  interfere  with  the 
cooking. 

Jelly  should  be  put  into  glasses  that  have  been  thoroughly 
sterilized  and  covered  according  to  the  directions  given  under 
"Preserving  Fruit."  It  should,  however,  stand  twenty-four  hours 
before  being  covered.  If  possible  lay  a  sheet  of  glass  over  the 
tumblers  and  stand  them  in  a  sunny  window. 

APPLE  JELLY 

Wash  the  apples;  remove  stem  and  blossom  ends  and  cut  into 
quarters.  Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle,  adding  enough  cold 
water  to  come  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  apples.  •  Cover  and  cook 
gently  until  the  apples  are  soft  and  clear.  Mash  the  apples  and 
drain  them  through  a  sieve  in  which  two  thicknesses  of  cheese- 
cloth have  been  laid  or  through  a  jelly  bag.  Avoid  squeezing  the 
bag  or  the  jelly  will  be  clouded.  Boil  twenty  minutes  and  add 
the  heated  sugar,  allowing  two  cups  or  one  pound  to  every  pint 
of  juice.  Boil  five  minutes;  skim,  and  test  by  putting  a  teaspoon 
of  juice  in  a  cool  saucer.  If  it  jellies  at  once,  remove  from  the 
fire  and  pour  into  sterilized  glasses. 

QUINCE  JELLY 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Apple  Jelly,  using  part  apples  if  desired, 
and  saving  the  better  parts  of  the  fruit  for  canning. 

MINT  JELLY 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Apple  Jelly,  adding  oil  of  peppermint  to 
flavor. 

335  L-L 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING  F«p£unynfl 

CURRANT  JELLY 

Wash  and  pick  the  currants,  but  do  not  remove  the  stems. 
Put  them  in  the  preserving  kettle,  crushing  a  few  in  the  bottom 
first;  heat  slowly,  stirring  frequently.  When  the  currants  are 
hot,  mash  them  with  a  potato  masher  and  let  them  drip  the  same 
as  the  apples  for  apple  jelly.  After  this  put  the  cloth  or  bag 
over  another  dish  and  press  out  as  much  juice  as  possible,  using 
this  for  a  second  quality  of  jelly.  Return  the  clear  juice  to  the 
kettle,  adding  a  pint  of  granulated  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice. 
Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  place  over  the  fire;  bring  to  a  boil; 
set  aside  and  skim.  Repeat  this  process  three  times;  test  by  a 
few  drops  on  a  cool  saucer;  if  it  jellies  remove  from  fire  and  pour 
it  into  sterilized  glasses. 

RASPBERRY  AND   CURRANT  JELLY 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Currant  Jelly,  using  half  raspberries  and 
half  currants. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Currant  Jelly. 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Currant  Jelly. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY 

To  five  quarts  of  strawberries  add  one  quart  of  currants  and 
proceed  as  with  Currant  Jelly;  but  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

GREEN-GRAPE  JELLY 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Apple  Jelly. 

RIPE-GRAPE  JELLY 

Choose  acid  grapes,  as  the  sweet,  ripe  grapes  contain  too  much 
sugar.  Follow  the  recipe  for  Currant  Jelly. 

PLUM  JELLY 

Use  one  pint  of  water  to  four  quarts  of  fruit.  Cook  gently 
until  the  plums  fall  to  pieces;  strain,  and  proceed  as  with  currant 
jelly. 

336  M, 


PICKLES 


For  first  course,  he  ate  six  dozen  pickles — and  in  a  trice  everything 
on  the  table  had  disappeared! 

— Jack  the  Giant  Killer. 


PICKLES 

THE  sharp,  spicy  flavors  of  pickles,  catsups,  and  sauces  often 
whet  the  appetite  and  render  many  cold  dishes,  especially 
cold  meats,  more  acceptable  to  the  palate. 

MIXED  PICKLE 

1  quart  large  cucumbers  cut  in  cubes 
1  quart  small  cucumbers  left  whole 
1  quart  small  silver-skinned  onions 

1  quart  green  tomatoes  chopped  coarse 

2  red  sweet  peppers  chopped  fine 

1  large  cauliflower  broken  in  small  pieces 

Wash  the  vegetables  and  pour  over  them  a  weak  brine  solution 
made  of  a  quart  of  water  and  a  cup  of  salt.  Let  stand  twenty-four 
hours;  bring  to  a  boil  in  same  solution;  drain  and  make  the  dress- 
ing. 

MIXED-PICKLE  DRESSING 

6  tablespoons  mustard  1  cup  flour 

1  tablespoon  turmeric  2  cups  sugar 

2  quarts  vinegar 

Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly  and  cook  until  thick.  Stir  in 
the  pickles;  heat  thoroughly;  empty  into  glass  jars  and  stand 
away  until  needed. 

GREEN  TOMATO   SAUCE 

4  quarts  green  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  salt 

1/2  small  onion  1  tablespoon  mustard 

1  pint  vinegar  1  tablespoon  black  pepper 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  whole  allspice  and  cloves 

Wash  the  tomatoes;  remove  the  stem  and  blossom  ends;  slice 
them  without  peeling  and  put  them  to  soak  in  salt  and  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain  them;  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
stew  until  tender  Keep  in  glass  jars 

339  L-L 


Planned  for  • 
Family  of  Four 


CHILI  SAUCE 

4  quarts  ripe  tomatoes  3  cups  vinegar 

l/2  pound  brown  sugar  2  cups  small  onions 

1/2  cup  salt  2  tablespoons  horseradish 

1/2  ounce  cloves  i/2  ounce  celery  seed 

*/2  ounce  cinnamon  1/2  ounce  allspice 

1/2  teaspoon  mustard  i/2  teaspoon  black  pepper 
l/2  red  pepper 

Measure  the  tomatoes  after  they  are  peeled  and  chopped;  put 
them  over  the  fire  and  simmer  for  one  hour.  Chop  the  onions; 
grate  the  horseradish  and  grind  the  spices.  Add  all  the  other  in- 
gredients to  the  tomatoes;  simmer  for  one  hour  longer  and  seal 
while  hot  in  large-necked  bottles  that  have  been  thoroughly  steril- 
ized. 

PICKLED  PEPPERS 

Cut  the  stems  out  in  a  round  circle  with  a  sharp  knife  and  lay 
them  aside  to  replace  later.  Fill  the  peppers  with  a  mixture  of 
finely  chopped  cabbage,  grated  horseradish,  mustard  seed  and  salt. 
Wash  the  peppers  in  cold  water;  fill  them;  replace  the  stem;  tie 
them  with  a  soft  cord  to  keep  the  lids  in;  pack  them  in  stone  jars 
and  fill  up  with  cold  sharp  vinegar.  They  will  be  ready  for  use  in 
two  weeks. 

PICKLED  TOMATOES 

4  quarts  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  allspice 

8  blades  mace  2  small  red  peppers  sliced 

1  teaspoon  whole  cloves  Cider  vinegar 

Choose  the  small  pear-shaped  or  cherry  tomatoes;  wash  and 
dry  them;  put  them  in  glass  jars  that  can  be  made  air-tight.  Fill 
the  jars  three  fourths  full;  add  the  spices  and  peppers  and  fill  to 
the  top  with  cold  vinegar.  Set  in  a  cool  dark  place.  This  pickle 
will  be  ready  in  three  weeks'  time. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

,  8  quarts  tomatoes  %  teaspoon  red  pepper 

V2  quart  cider  vinegar  1/2  tablespoon  black  pepper 

Y±  cup  salt  1  head  garlic  or  i/2  onion 

*/2  ounce  whole  cloves 

Cut  the  tomatoes  in  pieces  and  stew  them  until  soft;  press 
through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  skins  and  seeds;  add  the  other 
ingredients;  mix  thoroughly  and  boil  about  three  hours  or  until 
reduced  one  half.  Bottle  without  straining  and  seal. 

340  *-i. 


Planned  tor  a  PICKLES 


Family  of  Four 


PICKLED  CUCUMBERS 


100  small  cucumbers  1  tablespoon  mustard  seed 

1  pint  salt  „.  1  tablespoon  whole  allspice 

Alum  size  of  a  nutmeg  1  root  horseradish 

Boiling  water  2  small  red  peppers 
Boiling  vinegar 

Wash  and  dry  the  pickles  and  put  them  in  a  large  stone  jar;  add 
salt  and  alum  and  cover  well  with  boiling  water.  Cover  the  jar 
tightly  and  let  stand  for  twenty-four  hours;  remove  the  cucum- 
bers; dry  them  and  place  them  in  another  jar  in  layers  alternately 
with  the  spices  and  grated  horseradish.  Have  the  jar  about  two 
thirds  full  of  cucumbers  and  pour  over  them  sufficient  boiling- 
vinegar  to  fill  the  jar.  When  cold,  cover  closely  and  stand  away. 

MUSHROOM  CATSUP 

1  pint  mushroom  liquor  %  ounce  green  ginger  root 

l/2  ounce  peppercorns  %  ounce  cloves 

*4  ounce  allspice  1  blade  mace 
Salt 

Wash  and  look  over  the  mushrooms  carefully;  put  them  in  an 
earthen  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  salt.  Let  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours  in  a  comparatively  warm  place;  put  through  a  fruit 
press  and  add  the  ginger  root  cut  into  small  pieces.  Measure  the 
liquor;  add  peppercorns  and  simmer  for  forty  minutes;  then  add 
the  spices  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
cool.  Strain  through  a  cloth;  bottle  and  seal. 


GRAPE   CATSUP 

5  pounds  ripe  grapes 

2  cups  vinegar 
5  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  each  ground  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  pepper,  salt 

Put  stemmed  grapes  into  the  preserving  kettle  with  just  enough 
water  to  prevent  burning.  Boil  to  a  pulp.  Strain,  and  add  other 
ingredients.  Boil  until  rather  thick.  Bottle,  cork,  and  seal. 

PICKLED   NASTURTIUM   SEEDS 

1  cup  vinegar  1  tablespoon  salt 

3  peppercorns  Nasturtium  seeds 

23  341  L-L 


Planned  tor  a 
Family  of  Four 


Pour  the  vinegar  into  a  large  mouth  pint  bottle.  Add  the  salt 
and  peppercorns.  Gather  the  nasturtium  seeds  on  a  dry  day, 
and  wipe  them  clean  with  a  damp  cloth.  Add  them  to  the  vinegar. 
If  there  are  not  enough  to  fill  the  bottle,  it  will  do  no  harm  to  add 
to  them  from  day  to  day.  When  full,  seal  the  tops  by  dipping  them 
into  melted  sealing  wax  or  paraffin.  They  will  be  ready  for  use 
in  a  few  months.  Serve  in  sauce  with  lamb  or  mutton. 


348 


BEVERAGES 


Strong  tea  and  scandal — 
bless  me,  how  refreshing! 

— Sheridan's  School  for  Scandal. 


344 


'    BEVERAGES 

COFFEE,  tea,  and  cocoa  are  stimulants  affecting  the  circula- 
tion and  nerves.  Taken  in  moderation,  they  cheer  and  do 
not  harm  the  healthy  person  if  rightly  prepared;  but  tea  and  coffee 
can  be  so  treated  as  to  draw  out  their  caffein,  theine,  and  tannic 
acid  to  such  a  degree  as  to  render  them  exceedingly  harmful. 
For  persons  who  find  their  use  unfavorable,  there  are  substitutes 
on  the  market,  made  of  roasted  and  toasted  cereals. 

COFFEE 

5  tablespoons  ground  coffee  4  cups  boiling  water 
White  of  1  egg  (or  less)  1  cup  cold  water 

Use  an  aluminum  or  granite-ware  pot  and  always  make  the  coffee 
fresh,  scalding  the  pot  each  time  before  using. 

Wash  the  egg;  break  and  beat  slightly.  Add  half  the  cold 
water;  mix  some  with  the  coffee;  put  in  the  pot  and  add  the 
boiling  water.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point;  add  the  remainder  of 
the  cold  water  to  hasten  the  grounds  in  settling.  Stand  the  pot 
where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil  for  five  minutes;  then  serve  at 
0nce,  as  coffee  allowed  to  stand  becomes  flat  and  loses  its  aroma. 

The  egg  is  not  necessary;  but  most  cooks  use  a  clean  shell  or  a 
little  of  the  white  of  an  egg.  Others  beat  the  whole  egg  with  a 
little  water,  but  use  only  a  portion  of  it,  keeping  the  rest  for 
further  use  in  a  covered  glass  in  the  ice  chest. 

INSTANTANEOUS  COFFEE 

6  tablespoons  pulverized  coffee  6  cups  boiling  water 

A  variety  of  pots  are  on  the  market  for  making  instantaneous 
coffee,  all  containing  a  strainer  to  hold  the  coffee,  which  must  be 
pulverized,  not  simply  ground.  Put  the  coffee  in  the  strainer; 
scald  out  the  pot;  adjust  the  strainer  and  set  the  pot  where  the 
coffee  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil.  Pour  on  freshly  boiled  water 
slowly,  covering  between  additions.  When  filtered  pour  off  one 
cup  and  let  it  run  again  through  the  strainer.  Serve  at  once. 

345  L-L 


BEVERAGES 


SERVING   COFFEE 

Cream  is  usually  served  with  coffee,  but  scalded  milk  renders 
the  coffee  more  digestible  than  does  cream.  Fill  the  cup  one 
fourth  full  of  hot  scalded  milk;  pour  on  the  freshly-made  coffee, 
adding  sugar  if  desired. 

Whether  cream  or  milk  is  used,  it  is  better  to  pour  the  coffee  on 
the  cream  or  milk. 

After-dinner  coffee  should  be  made  very  strong  arid  served  black. 

COFFEE  IN  BULK 

1  pound  ground  coffee  9  quarts  water 

1  egg 

Mix  the  coffee  with  the  egg  that  has  been  thinned  by  a  little 
water,  and  tie  it  into  four  muslin  bags.  Let  these  soak  in  the 
water  for  three  or  four  hours;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

This  amount  will  serve  fifty  persons. 

TEA 

2  teaspoons  tea  4  cups  boiling  water 

Use  an  earthen  or  china  teapot  and  have  water  freshly  boiled. 
Scald  out  the  teapot;  put  in  the  tea  and  pour  on  the  boiling  water. 
Let  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  five  minutes  ;  pour  off  and  serve. 

Never  let  the  tea  boil;  never  let  it  stand  a  long  time  on  the 
leaves;  and  never  make  more  by  adding  fresh  leaves  to  the  old. 


RUSSIAN  TEA 

Make  the  tea  as  usual.  Serve  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  from 
which  the  seeds  have  been  removed. 

TEA  PUNCH 

1  quart  tea  Juice  of  6  lemons 

1  pound  sugar  Juice  of  2  oranges 

1  lemon  sliced 

Make  the  tea  as  usual;  add  sugar  and  fruit  juices,  cracked  ice 
and  more  water  as  desired.  Serve  in  a  punch  bowl  with  thin  slices 
of  lemon  floating  on  the  top. 

346  L-L 


BEVERAGES 


ICED  TEA 

Make  tea  as  usual;  pour  it  off  the  leaves;  sweeten  to  taste,  and 
when  cool  stand  in  the  refrigerator  until  serving  time.  Have  the 
glasses  filled  with  cracked  ice  and  have  thin  slices  of  lemon  cut  to 
serve  with  the  tea. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE 

2  ounces  unsweetened  chocolate          1  cup  boiling  water 

3  tablespoons  sugar  3  cups  bot  milk 
Small  piece  stick  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scrape  the  chocolate  very  fine;  add  the  sugar,  cinnamon  and 
water;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  is  smooth;  then  add  the 
milk.  Return  to  the  fire  for  a  minute;  remove;  add  the  vanilla; 
beat  well;  pour  into  a  chocolate  pot  and  serve  plain  or  with 
whipped  cream. 

COCOA 

4  teaspoons  cocoa  Little  cold  milk 
4  teaspoons  sugar                                  4  cups  hot  milk 

Mix  the  cocoa  and  sugar,  and  stir  together  with  a  little  cold 
milk  until  smooth.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  hot  milk;  boil  two 
minutes  and  serve. 

CHOCOLATE  SYRUP 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  cocoa 

2  cups  water  y2  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  one  cup  of  water  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Mix  the  cocoa  with  the  other  cup  of  water  and  add  to  the  boiling 
syrup.  Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes;  add  salt;  cool  and  bottle  for 
future  use. 

This  syrup  will  keep  a  long  time  in  the  ice  chest  in  summer  and 
may  be  used  for  making  delicious  drinks. 


CHOCOLATE  NECTAR 

Put  into  a  glass  two  tablespoons  of  chocolate  syrup,  a  little 
cream  or  milk  and  chopped  ice,  and  fill  up  the  glass  with  soda 
water,  Apollmaris,  or  milk.  Drop  a  little  whipped  cream  on  the 
top, 

347  L-L 


BEVERAGES 


FRUIT  DRINKS 

The  success  f  lemon-,  orange-  and  pineapple-ade  depends  in  large 
degree  upon  the  way  they  are  made.  It  is  best  to  make  a  syrup  as 
for  sherbets,  using  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  to  one  cup  of  water. 
Put  the  sugar  in  cold  water  over  the  fire;  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved;  then  cook  until  the  syrup  spins  a  fine  thread.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  fruit  juices  while  the  syrup  is  hot.  If 
lemonade  is  desired,  lemon  should  predominate,  but  orange  or 
pineapple  juice  or  both  should  be  added  to  yield  the  best  result. 
Small  pieces  of  fresh  pineapple,  fresh  strawberries  and  maraschino 
cherries  added  at  time  of  serving  will  make  the  drink  look  pretty 
and  will  improve  the  flavor.  Shaved  or  very  finely  cracked  ice 
should  be  used. 

QUICK  LEMONADE 

2  lemons  1  quart  water 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Cracked  ice 

Wash  the  lemons  and  squeeze  the  juice;  mix  thoroughly  with 
the  sugar,  and  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  add  the  water  and  ice, 
and  a  little  fresh  fruit  or  slices  of  lemon  if  convenient* 

EGG  LEMONADE 

2  lemons  4  tablespoons  sugar 

2  eggs  3  cups  water 

1  cup  cracked  ice 

Break  the  eggs  and  beac  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Mix 
the  lemons,  sugar,  water  and  ice  as  for  lemonade;  add  the  eggs; 
pour  rapidly  back  and  forth  from  one  pitcher  to  another  and  serve 
before  the  froth  disappears. 

GRAPE  JUICE 

10  pounds  grapes  2  pounds  sugar 

1  quart  water 

Wash  and  stem  the  grapes;  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  and 
crush  slightly.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour. 
Strain  though  cheesecloth  or  jelly  bag,  pressing  out  all  the  juice 
possible;  return  to  the  fire  with  the  sugar;  cook  for  fifteen  minutes; 
strain  again;  reheat  and  pour  into  sterilized  bottles,  thoroughly 
heated.  Put  in  sterilized  corks  and  dip  the  neck  of  the  bottle  in 
hot  sealing  wax, 

348  L-L 


Planned  for  a  UT7T7T?T>  A  ^17C! 

Family  of  Four _^ IS J/  V  il/KA IjJ/O 

OTHER  FRUIT  JUICES 

Raspberry,  blackberry  and  strawberry  juice  may  be  made  by 
following  the  recipe  for  grape  juice  but  doubling  the  quantity  of 
sugar.  For  currant  juice  use  four  times  as  much  sugar  as  for  grape 
juice. 

FRUIT  SYRUPS 

Fruit  syrups  may  be  made  like  fruit  juices,  only  using  more 
sugar — at  least  half  as  much  sugar  as  fruit  juice. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR 

4  quarts  raspberries  1  quart  vinegar 

Sugar 

Put  two  quarts  of  raspberries  in  a  bowl  and  cover  them  with  the 
vinegar;  cover  and  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  two  days.  Mash  the 
berries;  strain  the  vinegar  through  cheesecloth;  pour  it  over  two 
quarts  of  fresh  raspberries;  let  stand  for  another  two  days;  strain 
and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  sugar,  allowing  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice.  Heat  slowly,  skimming  when  the  vinegar 
begins  to  boil.  Boil  twenty  minutes  and  put  in  sterilized  bottles. 
Serve  as  a  drink,  using  two  tablespoons  to  a  glass  of  water. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  lemon  juice 

1  cup  hot  tea  1  quart  Apollinaris 

1  cup  orange  juice  1  cup  pickled  cherries 

1  orange  sliced 

Pour  the  hot  tea  on  the  sugar  and  when  the  latter  is  dissolved 
add  the  other  ingredients.  Serve  in  a  punch  bowl  with  a  large 
block  of  ice. 

Substitute  pineapple  or  strawberry  juice  for  the  tea  if  preferred. 


FRUIT  PUNCH  ACCOMPANIMENTS 

Meringues  Kisses 

Cookies  Little  sponge  cakes 

Jumbles  Vanilla  wafers 

Fancy  sandwiches  Salted  nuts 
Mint  candy 

349 


BEVERAGES 


FIVE  O'CLOCK  PUNCH 
(For  large  party) 

4  cups  sugar  1  pint  boiling  water 

1  pint  cold  water  6  oranges 

4  lemons  3  bananas 

1  pineapple  J/2  cup  Maraschino  cherries 

1  pint  grape  juice 

Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  sugar,  and  let  stand  and  cool 
while  preparing  the  fruit.  Slice  two  oranges  and  two  lemons 
and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Place  in  the  punch  bowl  with  the  cold 
water  and  a  block  of  the  ice.  Add  the  pineapple  and  bananas, 
sliced.  Add  the  juice  of  the  remaining  oranges  and  lemons; 
then  the  sugar  and  water.  Just  before  serving,  add  the  grape 
juice  and  cherries.  If  desired,  a  pint  of  ginger  ale  or  Apollinaris 
may  be  added  in  place  of  the  cold  water. 


350 


INVALID  COOKERY 


The  cooky  not  the  physic,  saved  my  life. 

— Quaint  Tales 


352 


INVALID  COOKERY 

^  j^HE  proper  feeding  of  an  invalid  plays  an  inestimable  part  in 
A  his  recovery.  The  general  rules  to  remember  are:  Give 
only  food  that  is  easily  digested,  served  as  temptingly  as  possible. 
When  the  temperature  is  high,  water  and  liquid  food  should  be 
given  freely  to  repair  the  rapid  waste  caused  by  fever.  As  the 
fever  abates,  semi-solid  foods  may  be  used:  and  as  convalescence 
advances,  soft  foods  such  as  eggs,  toast,  and  simple  puddings. 

LAMB  BROTH 

2  pounds  neck  of  lamb  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  cold  water 

Clean  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth;  remove  the  skin  and  fat; 
cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  hack  or  separate  the  bones. 
Put  bones  and  meat  into  a  saucepan;  add  cold  water;  let  stand 
one  hour;  then  heat  gradually  and  let  it  cook  below  the  boiling 
point  for  two  hours.  Strain  through  a  sieve;  season  and  serve, 
adding  a  little  boiled  rice  if  desired, 

BEEF  TEA 

1  pound  ground  lean  beef  1  pint  cold  water 

Salt  and  pepper 

Choose  beef  from  the  under  side  of  the  round,  as  that  contains 
the  greatest  strength,  and  have  it  ground.  Put  it  in  a  closely 
covered  saucepan  and  let  it  stand  on  the  range,  without  boiling, 
for  twenty  minutes;  then  boil  for  six  minutes;  strain  and  season. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL  No.  1 

1  tablespoon  oatmeal  1  pint  milk  or  water 

3  tablespoons  water  Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  the  oatmeal  with  the  three  tablespoons  of  water.  Boil 
the  pint  of  milk  or  water  and  into  it  pour  the  oatmeal  slowly, 
Season  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 

353  I,-L 


INVALID  COOKERY 


OATMEAL  GRUEL  No.  2 

1  quart  water  Milk 
3  tablespoons  oatmeal                            Sugar 

l/2  tablespoon  butter 

Boil  the  water  and  into  it  stir  the  oatmeal;  boil  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  constantly.  Then  pour  it  into  a  double  boiler  and  let 
it  cook  for  three  or  four  hours.  Thin  with  rich  milk;  strain  care- 
fully; add  the  butter  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

If  sugar  is  not  desired,  salt  may  be  substituted. 

INDIAN   GRUEL 

2  tablespoons  corn  meal  Salt 

1  quart  water  Sugar 

Mix  the  meal  with  a  little  cold  water.  Boil  the  quart  of  water; 
pour  it  on  the  corn  meal;  beat  well;  return  it  to  the  saucepan 
and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Add  a  little  salt  and  sweeten 
to  taste. 

SAGO   GRUEL 

2  tablespoons  sago  1  pint  cold  water 

Sugar 

Soak  the  sago  for  an  hour  in  cold  water  sufficient  to  cover  it; 
add  the  pint  of  water;  place  over  a  slow  fire  and  stir  until  the  sago 
is  dissolved  and  becomes  thickened.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  if 
too  thick  add  a  little  boiling  water. 

If  desired,  add  flavoring  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

EGG   GRUEL 

1  egg  1  cup  hot  milk 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Grated  nutmeg  or  lemon  juice 

Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg  with  the  sugar  until  light;  add  the 
well-beaten  white;  pour  over  this  the  hot  milk;  flavor  and  serve 
at  once. 

CRACKER  GRUEL 

2  tablespoons  powdered  cracker  l/2  cup  milk 

y2  cup  boiling  water  V4  teaspoon  salt 

Pour  the  water  over  the  cracker;  add  the  milk  and  salt;  bring 
to  a  boil  and  serve. 

354  L-L 


INVALID  COOKERY 


ARROWROOT 

2  teaspoons  arrowroot  1  pint  milk  or  water 

Sugar 

Mix  the  arrowroot  in  a  little  cold  water.  Boil  the  water  or 
milk;  stir  in  the  arrowroot  and  boil  until  thickened  and  clear, 
stirring  constantly.  Sweeten  to  taste. 


ARROWROOT  WATER 

2  pippin  apples  1  teaspoon  arrowroot 

1  quart  water  Sugar 

Pinch  of  grated  nutmeg 

Wash  the  apples  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  removing  the 
core.  Put  them  in  the  cold  water  over  the  fire  and  boil  until  the 
apples  are  soft,  which  will  take  an  hour  or  more.  Mix  the  arrow- 
root in  a  little  cold  water  until  perfectly  smooth;  stir  into  the 
apple  water;  let  all  boil  together  for  ten  minutes;  strain  through 
a  sieve;  sweeten  to  taste  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Serve  as  a  drink 
with  a  little  grated  nutmeg  over  the  top. 


FLAXSEED  TEA 

1  tablespoon  flaxseed  1  lemon 

1  quart  boiling  water  Sugar 

Put  the  flaxseed  in  a  pitcher  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  water. 
Add  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  a  few  strips  of  peel,  cut  off  with  a 
sharp  knife.  Sweeten  to  taste.  This,  taken  at  bed-time,  is  an 
excellent  remedy  for  a  cold. 


TOAST  WATER 
2  slices  bread 


3  pints  boiling  water 
tablespoons  currant  jelly 


Cut  the  bread  half  an  inch  thick;  toast  very  brown  on  both 
sides,  but  do  not  scorch.  Break  them  in  pieces;  pour  the  boiling- 
water  over  them;  add  the  currant  jelly  and  stir  until  it  is  thor- 
oughly dissolved.  When  cold,  strain  and  serve,  adding  cracked 
ice  if  desired. 


355 


INVALID   COOKERY 


ALBUMENIZED  WATER 

1  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

White  of  1  egg  1  teaspoon  sugar 

Put  the  water,  egg,  lemon  juice  and  sugar  in  a  covered  jar  and 
shake  until  all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  blended.  Stand 
on  the  ice  and  shake  again  just  before  serving. 

RICE  WATER 

1  tablespoon  rice  1  quart  water  or  milk 

Sugar 

Wash  the  rice  and  put  it  over  the  fire  with  the  quart  of  water. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil  set  it  where  it  will  simmer  until  the  rice 
becomes  a  pulp.  Let  it  settle;  pour  off  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

PANADA 

2  stale  rolls  Boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  sugar  Grated  nutmeg 

Toast  the  rolls  very  brown,  but  do  not  scorch  them;  break  into 
a  bowl;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  pour 
over  them  sufficient  boiling  water  to  moisten  thoroughly. 

If  desired,  a  little  -flavoring  may  be  added. 

FRENCH  PANADA 

1  stale  tea  biscuit  %  teaspoon  butter 

Boiling  water  Yolk  of  1  egg 

Salt  2  tablespoons  milk 

Break  the  biscuit  into  a  saucepan;  pour  over  it  boiling  water 
sufficient  to  cover;  boil  five  minutes;  add  butter  and  a  little  salt 
and  mix  well.  Then  stir  in  the  egg  yolk,  well  beaten  in  the  milk; 
bring  all  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

MILK  TOAST  No.  1 

1  cup  scalded  milk  l/4  teaspoon  salt 

3  slices  buttered  toast 

Spread  fresh  toast  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Pour 
the  scalded  milk  over  the  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

356  L-I, 


INVALID    COOKERY 


MILK  TOAST  No.  2 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  V4  teaspoon  salt 

3  slices  toast 

Cook  the  flour  in  the  butter,  but  do  not  brown  it;    add  the 
milk  gradually;   season  and  pour  over  the  toast. 


CREAM   TOAST 

1  slice  bread  1  cup  cream 

Salt 

Cut  the  bread  half  an  inch  thick  and  toast  it  brown  on  both 
sides.  Lay  it  on  a  hot  plate;  sprinkle  with  salt;  pour  over  it 
the  cream,  heated  but  not  boiled,  and  serve  at  once. 


SOAKED  CRACKERS 

Place  several  soda  crackers  in  a  soup  plate;  pour  over  them  boil- 
ing water  and  let  stand  for  about  a  minute.  Drain  off  the  water 
and  serve  with  butter  and  salt,  butter  and  nutmeg,  cream  and 
salt,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Hot  milk  may  be  substituted  for  the  boiling  water  if  desired. 

EGG  MILK-SHAKI 

I  egg  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Milk  to  fill  glass 

Grated  nutmeg 

Beat  the  egg  separately  and  then  together;  add  sugar  and 
flavoring,  using  a  larger  quantity  if  desired.  Turn  into  a  glass; 
fill  the  glass  with  milk;  shake  well  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over 
the  top. 

This  is  delicious  when  frozen.  Make  a  custard  of  the  egg, 
milk  and  sugar,  using  an  extra  quantity  of  sugar.  When  almost 
frozen  add  the  flavoring  and  an  equal  quantity  of  sweetened 
whipped  cream. 

SUNSHINE  ORANGE 

Soak  an  orange  in  hot  water  for  half  an  hour,  until  it  is  heated 
to  the  core.  Remove  the  skin,  which  will  peel  easily,  and  the 
pulp  will  be  sweet,  as  if  the  orange  had  just  been  picked  in  the  sun. 

24  357  Ir-l 


INVALID    COOKERY 


LEMON  FOAM 

1  cup  water  %  cup  sugar 

1  level  tablespoon  cornstarch  White  of  1  egg 

1  lemon 

Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  water;  add  the  remainder  of 
the  water  and  the  sugar  and  cook  rapidly  for  three  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Remove  from  the  fire;  stir  in  the  white  of  the  egg, 
beaten  stiff,  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Turn  into  molds;  let 
stand  for  twelve  hours  and  serve. 

LEMON   WHEY 

1  cup  milk  1  small  lemon 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

Heat  the  milk;  add  the  lemon  and  let  it  stand  over  the  fire 
until  the  curd  separates;  strain;  add  the  sugar  and  serve  hot  or 
<x>ld. 

WHIPPED  APPLE  SAUCE 

1  cup  apple  sauce  White  of  1  egg 

Grated  nutmeg 

Beat  the  egg  very  stiff,  alone  and  then  with  the  apple  sauce;  add 
more  sugar  if  necessary;  serve  in  a  sherbet  glass,  sprinkling  a 
little  grated  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

CUSTARD 

2  eggs  Sugar 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  eggs;  stir  them  into  the  milk;  sweeten  to  taste  and 
cook  in  a  double  boiler.  Stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  when  the  steam  has  passed  off  add  the 
vanilla. 

Lemon  or  other  flavoring  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  vanilla  if 
desired. 

CALF'S  FOOT  JELLY 

4  calves'  feet  Vz  pound  powdered,  sugar 

3  quarts  water  2  lemons 

Whites  of  2  eggs 

Clean  the  feet  thoroughly  and  boil  them  slowiy  untL  the  three 
quarts  of  water  are  reduced  to  one!  Strain  and  set  ctway  until 


INVALID    COOKERY 


cold;  remove  the  grease  and  place  the  jelly  in  a  saucepan,  being 
careful  to  avoid  the  settlings.  Add  the  sugar,  lemon  juice  and 
whites  of  eggs;  let  all  boil  together  for  a  few  minutes  *  pour  into 
bowls  or  glasses  and  set  away  to  cool.  This  is  much  more  nour- 
ishing than  the  commercial  gelatine. 

POTATOES   ON  THE  HALF-SHELL 

Bake  large,  smooth  potatoes;  cut  each  in  half  lengthwise; 
scrape  out  the  inside,  leaving  the  skins  whole.  Beat  the  potato 
to  a  cream  with  melted  butter  and  cream;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  fill  the  "shells,"  rounding  the  potato  on  top.  Put  a 
speck  of  butter  on  each  half  and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 

Potatoes  on  the  half-shell  are  more  delicate  than  the  ordinary 
baked  potato. 

KOUMISS 

2  quarts  new  milk  2  tablespoons  water 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Va  cake  compressed  yeast 

Let  the  yeast  dissolve  in  the  water;  add  it  to  the  sugar  and  milk 
and  let  the  mixture  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  about  ten  hours 
or  until  it  has  thickened.  Pour  from  one  vessel  to  another  until 
thoroughly  smooth;  bottle  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  for  twenty- 
four  hours,  or  longer  in  winter.  Cork  the  bottles  tightly  and  tie 
the  corks  down.  Shake  for  a  few  moments  before  using. 

STEWED   FIGS 

1  pound  figs  1  pint  water 

Wash  the  figs  thoroughly  and  put  them  to  soak  over  night  in 
the  pint  of  water.  Bring  them  to  a  boil  in  the  same  water  and  let 
them  cook  until  the  syrup  is  reduced  about  one  hall. 

TAPIOCA 

1/2  cup  tapioca  1  tablespoon  lemon  Juice 

1  pint  boiling  water  Sugar 

Grated  nutmeg 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  it;  stir  it  into  the 
boiling  water  and  let  it  simmer  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  It 
too  thick,  add  more  boiling  water.  Sweeten  to  taste;  add  the 
lemon  andgrate  ft  lit  tie  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

359  L-L 


INVALID   COOKERY 


BEEF  PATS 

Scrape  clean,  uncooked  beef  until  you  have  the  desired  quantity 
of  paste;  make  it  into  tiny  pats;  put  each  pat  on  a  square  of  bread; 
toast  quickly  in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  with  a  little  salt  and  butter. 

CHICKEN  PANADA 

1  cup  cold  chicken  1  pint  milk 

1  cup  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  Salt  and  pepper 

Chop  the  chicken  very  fine  and  put  it  over  the  fire  with  the  water. 
When  boiling,  add  the  cornstarch  moistened  in  a  little  cold  milk; 
then  add  the  pint  of  milk;  bring  to  a  boil;  add  the  seasoning  and 
butter  and  serve. 

OYSTERS  ON  TOAST 

6  oysters  Salt  and  pepper 

l/2  tablespoon  butter  1  slice  toast 

Put  the  oysters  and  butter  in  a  pan,  without  any  juice,  over 
the  fire;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  on  a  slice  of  toast,  delicately 
browned  on  both  sides  and  slightly  buttered. 

SQUABS    OR  ANY  SMALL  BIRDS 

Clean  and  singe  the  squabs  the  same  as  chicken.  Split  them 
down  the  back;  flatten  with  a  rolling-pin  and  broil  over  hot  coals. 
Put  them  on  a  hot  plate;  butter  slightly  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Serve  on  buttered  toast 


360  L-L 


FIRELESS  COOKERY 


What!     Cook  without  fire? 
Aye,  an'  it  can  be  done. 

— Fables  of  a  Rolling  Pin. 


362 


FIRELESS  COOKERY 

time  saver,  fuel  saver,  and  nutriment  saver,  the  fireless 
cooker  has  proved  itself  to  be  one  of  the  most  useful  of  cook- 
ing devices,  well  worthy  of  the  serious  attention  of  the  conserva- 
tive housekeeper.  The  construction  of  the  device  is  simple, 
being  the  same  in  principle  as  the  thermos  bottle.  The  outside 
box  is  lined  with  non-conducting  materials,  such  as  mineral  wool 
and  asbestos,  with  inside  compartments  or  wells  to  hold  the  food 
containers.  When  the  heated  vessel  is  tightly  enclosed,  the  heat 
is  retained  and  continues  the  process  of  cooking.  Usually  the 
cooker  is  equipped  with  radiator  disks  of  metal  or  stone,  which, 
when  fully  heated  on  the  stove  and  placed  in  the  compartment 
with  the  food  container,  materially  increase  the  rapidity  of  cook- 
ing. Many  dishes  may  be  cooked  without  the  use  of  radiators; 
but  no  cooker  is  complete  without  them,  since  their  intense  heat 
makes  possible  the  baking  of  bread,  cakes,  and  pies,  the  roasting 
and  stewing  of  meats,  and  in  fact,  the  cooking  of  almost  any  dish 
that  can  be  prepared  on  the  modern  cooking  range. 

Not  only  does  the  fireless  cooker  mean  a  tremendous  saving  of 
fuel,  and  of  energy  on  the, part  of  the  housewife,  but  it  produces 
better  results  with  many  dishes  than  are  possible  with  coal  or  gas. 
Cereals,  for  instance,  which  require  long  heating  and  which  it  is 
almost  impossible  to  cook  properly  on  a  gas  stove,  are  delicious 
when  prepared  by  the  fireless  method.  The  slow,  even  heat  cooks 
beans,  rice,  macaroni,  and  similar  dishes  more  thoroughly,  and 
improves  their  digestibility  and  flavor.  Meats  retain  all  their 
nutriment  and,  being  cooked  in  their  own  juices,  are  more  savory. 
The  recipes  given  in  this  chapter  are  arranged  for  the  cooker 
with  radiators;  but  all  of  them,  with  the  exception  of  those  for 
roasting  and  baking,  can  be  used  for  any  cooker.  Where  there 

363  L-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY Fa"Xnrf 

are  no  radiators,  and  where  you  are  cooking  things  which  require 
a  great  length  of  time,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  remove  the  container 
from  the  cooker  when  the  time  is  half  gone  and  reheat  it  over  the 
fire.  In  doing  so,  as  in  preparing  the  dish  for  the  cooker  in  the 
first  place,  the  container  must  not  be  uncovered  before  returning 
it  to  the  cooker,  or  steam  will  escape  and  the  food  cool. 

In  considering  labor-saving  and  fuel-saving  devices,  the  steam 
pressure  cooker  should  be  mentioned.  While  it  requires  fire  for 
operation,  the  intense  heat  caused  by  steam  under  pressure  so 
reduces  the  length  of  time  required  for  cooking  that  there  is  great 
saving  of  fuel,  and  cheaper  cuts  of  meat,  dried  beans  and  peas, 
and  other  foods  which  usually  need  long,  slow  cooking  are  much 
more  quickly  and  thoroughly  done. 

Among  the  many  inventions  since  the  days  of  open-fireplace 
cookery  the  automatic  electric  oven  cooker,  which  of  itself  turns 
the  power  off  upon  attaining  a  certain  registered  temperature,  is  a 
most  desirable  acquisition  where  electricity  is  not  too  costly  for 
its  operation.  Aladdin  and  his  lamp  were  not  more  wonderful! 

CEREALS 

To  cook  cereals  in  the  cooker  to  best  advantage  there  should  be 
a  double-boiler  receptacle.  Fill  the  large  outer  pail  with  water 
and  bring  it  to  a  boil.  In  the  upper  vessel  put  the  required  amount 
of  water;  stir  in  the  cereal;  season  to  taste;  heat  and  stir  slowly 
until  it  begins  to  thicken — about  ten  minutes.  Place  the  smaller 
kettle  inside  the  larger  and  set  away  in  the  cooker;  leave  over- 
night and  in  the  morning  beat  up  well  and  reheat.  If  the  grains 
are  desired  separate,  cook  a  less  time  and  do  not  beat. 

ARROWROOT   GRUEL 

2  tablespoons  arrowroot  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  boiling  water  1  teaspoon  sugar 

Few  drops  vanilla 

Mix  the  arrowroot  with  just  enough  cold  water  to  form  a  thin 
paste;  add  part  of  boiling  water;  mix  well  and  add  remaining 
hot  water.  Boil  for  five  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  one  hour. 
Cool;  add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  and  a  little  cream  if  desired. 

364  L-L 


FIRELESS  COOKERY 


BARLEY  MUSH 

l/2  cup  Dane?  mea*  1  teaspoon  salt 

2l/z  cups  water 

Stir  the  meal  slowly  into  the  boiling  salted  water,  being  careful 
not  to  let  it  lump.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for 
eight  hours  or  over  night. 

CORN-MEAL  MUSH 

J/2  cup  corn  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

23/4  cups  water 

Slowly  stir  the  mea'  into  the  boiling  salted  water,  being  careful 
not  to  allow  it  to  lump.  Let  boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes;  place 
in  cooker  and  allow  ty>  remain  eight  to  ten  hours  or  over  night. 

If  you  wish  to  fry  the  mush  use  only  two  cups  of  water, 

CRACKED  WHEAT 

3/4  cup  cracked  wheat  3  cups  water 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  the  cracked  wheat  in  two  cups  of  water  for  two  hours.  Heat 
remaining  water  to  boiling  point,  add  salt  and  the  cracked  wheat 
with  the  water  in  which  it  has  been  soaking.  Boil  for  ten  minutes; 
place  in  cooker  over  night. 

The  flavor  will  be  greatly  improved  if  the  wheat  is  slightly 
browned  in  the  oven  before  soaking. 

GRAHAM  MUSH 

I  cup  graham  flour  3  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Stir  the  flour  slowly  into  the  boiling  water,  being  careful  not  to 
allow  it  to  lump.  Boil  slowly  for  five  minutes  and  place  in  cookei 
over  night. 

HOMINY 

1  cup  hominy  2  teaspoons  salt 

4l/z  cups  boiling  water 

Soak  the  hominy  over  night,  keeping  it  in  a  warm  place  if  pos- 
sible. Drain  and  add  boiling  water.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  and 
place  in  the  cooker  all  day* 

365  L-L 


FIRELESS  COOKERY 


OATMEAL 

I  cup  oatmeal  3  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Stir  the  meal  into  boiling  salt  water;  boil  for  five  minutes  and 
place  in  the  cooker  over  night* 

PETTIJOHN'S  BREAKFAST  FOOD 

1  cup  cerea)  3  cups  water 

1*72  teaspoons  salt 

Stir  the  cereal  into  boiling  salted  water,  allow  it  to  boil  for  five 
minutes  and  place  in  cooker  over  night 

RALSTON'S  BREAKFAST  FOOD 

*/2  cup  cereai  3  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Allow  the  water  to  boil  hard,  add  salt  and  slowly  stir  in  the 
breakfast  food,  being  careful  not  to  allow  it  to  lump.  Boil  slowly 
for  five  minutes  and  place  in  the  cooker  over  night. 

BOILED  RICE 

*/2  cup  rice  2*/2  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Clean  and  wash  the  rice;  then  stir  it  into  boiling  salted  water 
and  allow  to  boil  five  minutes.  Place  the  kettle  in  the  cooker  and 
allow  it  to  remain  for  three  hours  or  over  night. 

RICE  AND  FIGS 

Cook  the  rice  the  same  as  Boiled  Rice,  adding  just  before 
placing  in  the  cooker  a  cup  of  figs  which  have  been  washed, 
stemmed  and  cut  into  small  pieces*  Dates  may  be  used  in  the 
same  manner 

ROLLED  WHEAT 

1  cup  wheat  2*/2  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Have  the  water  boiling  directly  over  the  fire.  When  it  boils 
rapidly  stir  the  cereal  in  with  a  fork  to  prevent  lumping.  Let  it 
boil  slowly  five  minutes;  place  in  the  cooker  and  let  it  remain  for 
four  or  five  hours,  or  over  night. 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


CREAM   OF  WHEAT 

l/z  cup  cream  of  wheat  3  cups  water 

l/2  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  the  same  as  Rolled  Wheat. 

SOUP 

The  real  value  of  soup  is  brought  out  in  a  fireless  cooker.  Meats 
and  bones  for  soup  cost  but  little  and  the  real  expense  of  the  dish — 
the  long  cooking  over  a  fire,  is  done  away  with.  The  foundation 
of  all  soups  is  the  juice  or  extracts  of  meats,  poultry,  etc.,  that  are 
used,  and  the  true  flavor  and  the  nutriment  of  these  things  are 
best  preserved  by  the  fireless  method  of  cooking. 

BROWNED   SOUP  STOCK 

4  pounds  soup  meat  and  bone  %  teaspoon  pepper 

1  onion  1  stalk  celery 

2l/2  quarts  water  1  turnip 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  carrot 
1/2  bay  leaf 

Wipe  the  meat  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Brown  about  one 
third  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  little  suet  and  an  onion.  Place 
bones  and  remaining  meat  in  kettle;  add  two  quarts  of  water  and 
allow  to  stand  for  one  hour.  Add  two  cups  of  water  to  the  meat  ii* 
the  frying  pan;  boil  one  minute  and  add  to  the  meat  in  the  kettle. 
Add  seasoning  and  diced  carrots  and  turnips.  Bring  th^  entire 
mixture  to  a  boil  and  allow  it  to  simmer  ten  minutes.  Place  in 
the  cooker  for  eight  hours.  Remove  and  skim  fat  from  top  before 
using.  Use  one  radiator  or  cook  a  longer  time. 

WHITE   SOUP   STOCK 

4  pounds  knuckle  of  veal  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  onion  6  peppercorns 

Small  bay  leaf  1  stalk  celery 
8  cups  water 

Wipe  the  meat  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Have  bone  cracked 
and  place  this  with  the  meat  in  the  kettle;  add  seasoning  and 
onion  and  celery  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add  water  and  allow  to 
stand  an  hour.  Boil  slowly  thirty  minutes  and  place  in  cooker 
eight  hours.  Pour  soup  through  several  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth 
and  it  will  be  very  clear.  Use  one  radiator  or  cook  a  longer  time. 

367 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


BEAN  SOUP 

1  cup  navy  beans  2  stalks  celery 

2  quarts  water  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  small  onion  l/4  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Soak  beans  over  night;  drain  and  add  two  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Add  chopped  celery  and  onion,  also  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  slowly 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Place  in  cooker  for  four  hours.  Rub  through 
sieve;  add  butter  and  serve.  Use  one  radiator  or  cook  a  longer 
time. 

CHICKEN  SOUP 

Clean  and  dress  the  chicken;  place  in  kettle  and  add  six  cups  of 
cold  water,  a  few  celery  leaves  and  two  teaspoons  of  salt.  Boil 
slowly  for  twenty  minutes;  place  in  cooker  for  five  hours.  Allow 
chicken  to  cool  in  liquor.  It  may  be  used  for  salad  or  croquettes. 
Allow  soup  to  cool  and  remove  fat  before  serving. 


CORN  SOUP 

1  can  corn  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  quart  miilr  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Yolks  of  2  eggs 

Put  the  corn  in  the  kettle,  with  the  milk.  Remove  to  the  cooker 
for  two  hours  or  more.  Fry  the  chopped  onion  in  butter;  add 
the  flour  and  cook  until  smooth.  Strain  and  add.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  paprika.  Put  in  double  boiler  to  keep  hot,  and 
just  before  serving  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten. 


TOMATO  SOUP 

1  can  tomatoes  1  bay  leaf 

2  cups  water  2  cloves 

1  carrot  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  small  onion  Dash  of  red  pepper 

>        I  quart  soup  stock 

Add  water  to  tomatoes.  Dice  carrot  and  slice  onion;  add  these 
and  the  seasoning.  Boil  five  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  two 
hours.  Strain,  add  soup  stock,  reheat  and  serve.  Use  one  radiator 
jf  cook  a  longer  time, 

368  L-L 


FIRELESS  COOKERY 


TURTLE   SOUP 

Thoroughly  clean  the  turtle.  Place  in  kettle  and  cover  with 
cold  water.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  skim.  Tie  in  a  small  bag 
one  tablespoon  of  thyme,  marjoram,  and  sweet  basil;  let  it  boil  with 
the  meat  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  to  the  cooker  for 
five  or  six  hours.  Use  one  radiator.  Remove  meat  from  bones 
and  when  cold  cut  and  dice  and  return  to  the  stock.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Brown  some  flour  in  oven,  blend  with 
butter  and  thicken  the  soup  to  the  consistency  of  cream, 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

2  cups  brown  soup  stock  %  cup  celery 

2  cups  tomato  juice  1  cup  peas 
1  cup  carrots  1  onion 

1  cup  turnips  1  cup  diced  potatoes 

Seasoning 

To  the  soup  stock  and  tomato  juice  add  the  diced  carrots,  tur- 
nips, onion,  celery,  potatoes,  peas  and  seasoning.  Boil  slowly  for 
ten  minutes  and  then  place  in  the  cooker  for  three  hours.  Use  one 
radiator  or  cook  a  longer  time* 

POTATO  SOUP 

3  potatoes  1  pint  hot  milk 

2  ounces  butter  Salt  and  pepper 


Pare  and  cut  the  potatoes  in  quarters;  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  boil  five  or  six  minutes.  Place  in  the  cooker  for  one  and  a  half 
hours.  While  mashing,  add  the  butter  and  pour  in  gradually  the 
boiling  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  and  strain  and 
heat  again.  Beat  the  egg  and  put  into  tureen ;  pour  over  it  the 
soup. 


CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP 

3  celery  stalks  3  tablespoons  flour 

Water  li/2  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  the  celery  into  small  pieces;  cover  with  water  and  bring 
slowly  to  a  boil.  Boil  ten  minutes  and  then  place  in  the  cooker  for 
two  hours.  Blend  the  butter  and  flour;  add  milk  and  cook.  To 
this  add  drained  celery  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

369  L-L 


FIRELESS  COOKERY 


Flanneci  tor  a 
Family  of  Four 


CREAM   OF  PEA   SOUP 


1  cup  shelled  peas 
Water  to  cover 
1  pint  hot  milk 


l/2  cup  cream 


l/2  tablespoon  butter 
1  tablespoon  flour 
Salt  and  pepper 


Almost  cover  the  shelled  peas  with  boiling  water.  Boil  ten 
minutes  and  add  the  boiling  milk,  the  butter  blended  with  the 
flour,  also  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  and  bring  to  boil  and 
place  in  the  cooker  for  two  hours.  When  ready  to  serve  strain 
through  sieve  and  add  the  cream. 


LENTIL  SOUP 


1  cup  lentils 
1  carrot 
1  stalk  celery 
1  onion 


4  cups  stock 
3  tablespoons  flour 
2  tablespoons  butter 
2  teaspoons  salt 


Soak  lentils  in  water  several  hours;  then  drain  and  add  the 
onions,  carrot  and  celery,  cut  fine.  Add  water  and  boil  ten 
minutes;  place  in  cooker  seven  hours.  Remove  from  cooker;  drain 
and  rub  through  sieve.  Make  paste  of  butter  and  flour;  add  vege- 
tables, stock  and  seasoning.  Heat  and  serve.  For  Cream  Lentil 
Soup  add  milk  instead  of  stock, 


BOUILLON 


3  pounds  lean  beef 
2  quarts  cold  water 
A  little  celery 
1/  small  onion 


2  bay  leaves 
Cinnamon  and  cloves 
Salt  and  pepper 
1  tablespoon  caramel 


Cut  the  beef  into  cubes ;  add  water,  celery,  onion  and  bay  leaves 
and  let  stand  in  the  cooker  for  five  or  six  hours.  Use  one  radiator. 
When  taken  from  cooker  allow  to  cool  and  remove  the  fat.  Before 
using  drop  in  a  little  bag  of  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  color  with  a  tablespoon  of  caramel.  Heat  and 


serve. 


FISH 


Fish  is  a  food  that  may  be  easily  cooked  over  a  blaze,  but  the 
tireless  is  serviceable,  as  fish  does  not  become  soft  nor  fall  to 
pieces  even  by  standing  a  considerable  length  of  time  in  the  cooker. 


SSK'J'S.i,  FIRELESS   COOKERY 


Family  of  Four 


BAKED   FISH 


Open  the  fish;  wash;  wipe  perfectly  dry  and  rub  over  with  salt; 
lay  in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  little  butter  and  bread  crumbs;  and 
bake  forty  minutes  in  the  fireless  cooker,  using  both  radiators. 

CODFISH   BALLS 

1  cup  shredded  codfish  2  teaspoons  butter 

1  pint  potatoes  1  egg 

l/4  saltspoon  pepper 

Pare  the  potatoes;  cut  them  into  cubes  and  put  them  in  the 
kettle  with  the  codfish.  Cover  with  boiling  water;  place  hi  the 
cooker  for  three  hours.  Drain;  mash  and  beat  until  very  light. 
Add  the  butter,  egg  well  beaten  and  the  pepper;  also  more  salt  if 
needed.  Drop  by  tablespoons  in  hot  fat  and  fry  a  golden  brown. 

BAKED  LAKE  TROUT 

After  cleaning,  tie  the  fish  in  a  square  of  cheesecloth,  immerse 
in  boiling  water  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice.  Place  in  the  cooker 
and  cook  one  hour  with  one  radiator,  or  longer  if  no  radiator  is 
used.  Drain  and  serve  with  cream  sauce. 


BOILED   WHITE  FISH 

Clean  and  bone  the  fish  and  sew  in  a  cheesecloth  bag,  leaving 
room  for  the  fish  to  swell.  Place  in  kettle  with  back  down;  cover 
with  boiling  salted  water,  allowing  one  tablespoon  of  salt  and 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice  to  each  quart  of  water.  Boil  for  five 
minutes.  Place  in  cooker  for  one  hour.  If  fish  weighs  over  two 
pounds,  boil  ten  minutes  before  placing  in  cooker.  The  skin  may 
be  easily  peeled  from  a  boiled  fish.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

SCALLOPED   SALMON 

1  can  salmon  1  tablespoon  flour 

Butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Place  in  baking  dish  one  layer  of  salmon.  Sprinkle  with  flour; 
add  small  pieces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  then  other  layers 
until  the  dish  is  full;  cover  with  cracker  crumbs;  heat  and  bake 
in  the  cooker  about  one  hour.  Use  two  radiators. 

371  *-«< 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


BOILED   SALMON 

Wash  and  clean  the  fish;  sew  it  in  a  cheesecloth  bag,  leaving 
room  for  fish  to  swell.  Place  in  kettle;  cover  with  boiling  salted 
water,  allowing  one  tablespoon  of  salt  to  each  quart  of  water.  Boil 
ten  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Serve  fish  with  rings  of  lemon  and  tomato  sauce. 

TURBOT 

Take  a  whitefish;  boil;  take  out  the  bones  and  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper.  For  the  dressing  use  one  pint  of  cream  sauce 
prepared  in  the  usual  way,  and  when  cool  add  two  beaten  eggs. 
Put  in  baking  dish  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer  of  sauce,  until  full. 
Cover  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  the  cooker  for  one  hour. 
Use  two  radiators. 

MEATS 

The  more  expensive  meats  are  not  necessarily  the  most  nutri- 
tious. If  the  housewife  thoroughly  understands  the  right  way  to 
prepare  cheaper  meats,  and  has  a  fireless  cooker,  it  is  possible  to 
have  a  tender  and  juicy  piece  of  meat  at  comparatively  small  cost. 
Meats  cooked  by  the  fireless  method  do  not  lose  in  weight,  be- 
cause nothing  escapes,  and  there  is  no  shrinkage  from  evaporation. 
It  is  a  recognized  fact  that  the  tough  meats  can  be  reduced  to 
delicious  tenderness  if  steamed  in  a  closed  roaster  for  several 
hours.  This  is  the  principle  of  the  fireless  cooker. 

CORNED   BEEF 

For  cold  corned  beef  the  plate  piece  is  best,  while  for  hot  the 
brisket  is  to  be  preferred.  Always  have  a  good  layer  of  fat  around 
it.  Place  in  cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil  and  boil  for 
thirty  minutes,  skimming  well  the  first  few  minutes.  Have  cover 
tightly  closed  before  removing  to  the  cooker,  and  leave  six  or 
eight  hours,  using  one  radiator.  Cool  in  stock;  press  between 
plates,  and  serve  in  thin  slices. 

BOILED   BEEF 

The  brisket  or  piece  of  round  is  good  for  boiling.  Place  the  suet 
and  trimming  of  the  meat  in  the  kettle  and  fry  out  the  fat.  Then 
throw  in  the  meat  and  sear  quickly  on  all  sides.  Remove  the 
cracklings  from  the  fat  and  cover  the  meat  with  boiling  water. 

372  i.-i, 


FIRELESS  COOKERY 


Without  removing  the  cover  place  in  the  cooker  and  leave  three 
hours  or  more.  Use  one  radiator.  Then  place  on  a  hot  platter; 
salt  well;  garnish  with  cress  or  boiled  cabbage.  The  liquor  should 
be  saved  for  stock  and  sauce. 

BEEF  AU  GRATIN 

Put  in  baking  dish  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then  some  thin 
slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  slices  of  cold  cooked  beef,  onion,  parsley 
and  another  layer  of  crumbs,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  all 
any  left-over  gravy  or  stock  to  moisten.  Bake  in  the  cooker  for 
one  hour. 

ROAST  BEEF 

The  best  shaped  roast  to  cook  in  the  fireless  is  a  rolled  roast  of 
five  to  eight  pounds.  Use  whatever  seasoning  you  are  accustomed 
to  and  prepare  in  the  usual  way  for  the  oven.  Put  the  roast  in 
the  largest  vessel,  and  if  the  roast  is  large,  raise  the  temperature 
of  the  two  radiators  to  the  highest  possible  point;  then  place  the 
vessel  in  the  large  compartment  and  allow  it  to  remain  on  the 
program  of  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound  of  roast,  or  three 
minutes  less  per  pound  if  the  roast  is  desired  rare. 

ROUND  STEAK  ON  BISCUITS 

Cut  round  steak  into  small  half-inch  squares;  cover  with  water 
and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Remove  at  once  to  the  fireless  cooker 
and  leave  for  five  hours.  Take  out  the  meat;  make  a  brown 
sauce  of  the  juice;  pour  meat  and  sauce  over  split  tea  biscuits 
that  have  been  baked  with  a  hard  crust, 

BEEF  STEW 

2  pounds  round  steak  1  carrot 

3  cups  water  1  turnip 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  stalk  celery 

Dash  of  pepper  1  onion 

Remove  the  skin  from  the  meat  and  cut  into  inch  pieces;  place 
in  kettle;  add  water  and  seasoning.  Cut  the  carrot,  turnip  and 
celery  into  one-half-inch  cubes  and  add  to  mixture;  also  the  onion, 
sliced.  Boil  for  ten  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  three  hours. 
Thicken  with  four  tablespoons  of  flour  and  one  half  cup  of  water, 
well  mixed.  Serve  on  toast. 

2">  373  L-L 


FIRELESS  COOKERY 


BEEFSTEAK  AND   ONIONS 

Select  a  thick  steak  and  butter  both  sides;  slice  the  onions  thin 
and  lay  a  layer  of  onions  on  top  of  the  steak.  Place  it  in  the  cook- 
ing vessel  and  use  both  radiators,  the  same  as  in  roasting;  and 
leave  for  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

BOILED  DINNER 

Take  three  or  four  pounds  of  corned  beef;  cover  with  cold  water 
and  let  boil  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Then  skim  and  add  a 
small  head  of  cabbage,  a  few  carrots,  potatoes  and  turnips  and 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Place  in  the  cooker  for  four  hours.  Use 
one  radiator,  or  use  no  radietor  and  cook  a  longer  time. 

BROWNED  BEEF  STEW 

2  pounds  round  steak  3  cups  water 

1  onion  Seasoning 

Cut  meat  into  small  pieces.  Slice  onions  and  brown  in  some  of 
the  suet  or  two  tablespoons  of  butter;  add  meat  and  cook  until 
well  browned.  Add  the  three  cups  of  water  and  seasoning;  allow 
to  boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Place  kettle  in  cooker  for  three 
hours;  thicken  with  four  tablespoons  of  browned  flour  and  six 
tablespoons  of  water  made  into  thin  paste. 

CHICKEN  CURRY 

3-pound  chicken  2  teaspoons  salt 

l/3  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

2  small  onions  1  tablespoon  curry  powder 

Boiling  watei 

Clean,  singe  and  cut  the  chicken.  Put  the  butter  in  a  hot  frying 
pan;  add  the  chicken.  Chop  the  giblets  and  onions;  add  salt, 
vinegar  and  curry  powder.  Cover  with  boiling  water;  place  in 
the  cooker  for  four  hours,  using  one  radiator.  When  ready  to 
serve,  remove  the  chicken.  Thicken  the  liquid  with  flour;  strain, 
and  pour  over  the  chickenc  Garnish  with  a  border  of  rice* 

FRICASSEED   CHICKEN 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  the  chicken  for  serving.  Flour  and  salt 
slightly;  cover  with  boiling  water;  then  place  in  cooker  without 
removing  cover  and  leave  for  three  hours.  Take  from  cooker  and 

374  L-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


make  sauce  with  the  liquor  by  adding  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  half  cup  of  milk;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  it 
come  to  a  boil  on  the  stove  and  serve  at  once  with  hot  biscuits. 


CHICKEN  PIE 

Place  hot  fricassee  chicken  and  gravy  in  a  baking  dish.  Make 
a  rich  crust  and  place  on  top  of  chicken.  Place  in  cooker  for  one 
half  hour.  Use  two  radiators. 


ROAST  CHICKEN 

The  time  necessary  for  roasting  a  chicken  depends  on  the  age  of 
the  bird.  One  hour  and  a  half  is  sufficient  for  a  young  chicken, 
but  an  older  one  should  be  roasted  two  hours,  and  a  very  tough 
chicken  three  hours.  If  this  course  is  followed,  old  chickens  will 
turn  out  as  tender  and  savory  as  spring  chickens.  Prepare  the 
chicken  in  the  usual  method  for  the  oven.  It  will  not  be  necessary 
to  heat  the  chicken  to  brown  it  before  it  has  been  placed  in  the 
cooker,  for  if  both  radiators  have  been  made  very  hot  the  chicken 
when  roasted  will  be  nicely  browned.  It  is  not  necessary  to  open 
the  cooker  for  basting  as  the  hot  steam  prevents  burning. 

CHICKEN  STEW 

Clean  the  chicken  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Heat  the  kettle 
and  cover  with  water;  allow  to  boil  slowly  for  thirty  minutes; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  in  cooker  for  six  hours. 
Remove  from  cooker  and  add  thickening.  If  desired,  dumplings 
may  be  added  and  the  kettle  replaced  in  the  cooker  for  thirty 
minutes. 

IRISH   STEW 

1  pound  mutton  breast  1  slice  onion 

Salt  and  pepper  1  cup  green  peas 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  potatoes 

ll/2  cups  boiling  water 

Rub  the  mutton  breast  with  salt  and  pepper;  cut  up  into  small 
pieces;  brown  in  butter;  add  the  onion  and  cook  until  the  onion 
is  yellow.  Add  the  potatoes,  cut  in  cubes,  the  peas  and  boiling 
water;  season  and  cook  ten  minutes  over  the  fire.  Remove  tc 
cooker  and  leave  for  one  hour,  using  one  radiator. 

375  L-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY FaPXn%  SS.T 

BAKED   HASH 

Chop  and  season  any  cold  meat;  do  the  same  with  cold  potatoes, 
and  put  alternate  layers  in  a  dish  with  bits  of  butter  between. 
Finish  with  rolled  biscuits  and  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Pour  over 
this  some  good  stock,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 


BOILED   HAM 

Soak  over  night  if  necessary.  Wash  and  trim  off  all  dark  skin; 
place  in  kettle;  cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  a  half  hour.  Re- 
move to  cooker  for  four  to  six  hours,  using  one  radiator.  Boil 
about  eight  hours  if  no  radiator  is  used,  and  reheat  when  the  time 
is  half  expired. 

FRICASSEE  OF  LAMB 

Cut  two  pounds  of  lean  lamb  into  inch  cubes;  dredge  with  flour 
and  brown  in  a  frying  pan,  using  a  little  suet  to  keep  it  from  burn- 
ing. Place  in  kettle  and  add  just  water  enough  to  cover.  Boil 
for  ten  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  six  hours.  Thicken  with 
one  tablespoon  of  browned  flour  mixed  with  cold  water;  season  to 
taste  and  serve  on  toast. 


ROAST  LAMB 

Select  a  small  leg  of  lamb  and  cut  off  the  shank,  seasoning  well 
in  the  usual  way.  Place  in  the  larger  vessel  and  use  both  radiators. 
Allow  about  twenty  minutes  or  more  for  each  pound  of  meat. 
Prepare  sauce  in  the  usual  style. 


LAMB   CHOPS  ROASTED 

Cut  out  the  bone  from  each  chop;  roll  up  chop;  pin  together 
with  toothpick;  put  in  buttered  pan;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Place  in  pan  and  put  in  baking  rack  for  forty-five  minutes,  using 
two  radiators. 

BOILED  LEG   OF  MUTTON 

Place  mutton  in  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil  for 
thirty  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  three  hours,  using  one  radi- 
ator. 

376  L-L 


Family  of  Four 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


ROAST  PORK 

Select  a  piece  suitable  in  shape  for  fitting  in  the  larger  vessel 
and  cook  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to  three  hours,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  roast. 

SWEETBREADS 

Wash  sweetbreads  and  soak  in  slightly  salted  water  for  one  hour. 
Plunge  them  in  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  three  minutes.  Place 
in  cooker  for  two  hours.  Then  plunge  them  in  cold  water;  when 
chilled,  remove  membrane.  They  may  be  rolled  in  crumbs  and 
egg  and  fried,  or  broken  in  small  pieces  to  cream. 

PORK  TENDERLOIN 

Choose  thick  tenderloin;  split  them,  but  not  quite  through. 
Make  dressing  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  melted  but- 
ter. Stuff  tenderloin  and  bind  together.  Have  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter  in  cooker  kettle;  add  tenderloin  and  bake  in  roast- 
ing compartment  one  and  a  half  to  two  hours. 

BOILED  TONGUE 

Place  tongue  in  water  three  hours  before  cooking.  Put  in  kettle; 
cover  with  water  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Boil  thirty  minutes; 
then  place  in  cooker  with  one  hot  radiator  for  eight  hours.  If 
wanted  for  immediate  use  remove  skin  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

CURRY  OF  VEAL 

1  large  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  curry  powder  1  pint  hot  water 

2  pounds  lean  veal 

Fry  the  onion  in  the  butter.  Mix  curry  powder,  salt  and  flcar, 
and  stir  into  the  butter  and  onion.  Add  gradually  the  hot  water 
or  stock.  Cut  the  veal  in  small  pieces,  and  brown  them  in  hot  fat. 
Add  them  to  sauce;  remove  to  the  cooker  for  four  or  five  hours, 
using  one  radiator.  Place  meat  on  hot  platter  and  arrange  a  border 
of  boiled  rice. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES 

Put  the  veal  in  the  kettle  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Remove  to  the  cooker  for  three  hours.  Use  one  hot  radiator. 

377  L-L 


FIRELESS  COOKERY 


Chop  fine  and  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  paprika 
and  lemon  juice.  Use  one  and  a  half  cups  of  veal  with  one  cup  of 
thick  cream  dressing.  Shape  in  cylinders.  When  cool  roll  in  egg 
and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat, 

VEAL  LOAF 

3  pounds  chopped  veal  3  tablespoons  milk 

4  crackers  1  large  tablespoon  salt 
Butter  size  of  egg                                    l/2  teaspoon  pepper 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  sage 

Mix  the  veal  with  the  crackers  rolled  very  fine;  add  the  butter, 
eggs,  milk,  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Mix  all  together  and  form  into 
a  loaf.  Bake  three  hours  in  the  cooker,  using  both  radiators. 

ROAST  VEAL 

Select  a  piece  of  veal  suitable  in  shape  for  fitting  in  the  cooker. 
As  veal  is  usually  very  lean,  add  a  little  butter.  Roast  in  the 
ordinary  way  with  two  hot  radiators;  bake  from  one  and  a  half 
to  two  hours. 

VEAL  ROLLS 

Take  thin  veal  steak  off  the  ham,  and  cut  it  in  squares.  Season 
these  with  salt  and  pepper  and  wrap  around  strips  of  salt  pork, 
fastening  each  with  a  toothpick;  roll  hi  flour  and  brown  in  butter. 
Thicken  the  butter  left  in  the  pan  with  flour  and  add  milk;  bring 
this  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  rolls.  Place  in  the  aluminum  vessel, 
heat  thoroughly  for  twenty  minutes  and  place  in  the  cooker  for 
four  hours.  Mushrooms  may  be  added  to  the  sauce  when  ready 
to  serve. 

VEAL  AND  RICE 

l/2  cup  rice  1  sliced  onion 

2l/2  pounds  veal  6  tablespoons  water 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  meat  extract 

Boil  the  rice  in  salt  water  till  soft  (one  can  do  this  the  day  pre- 
vious). Cut  the  veal  in  cubes.  Heat  the  butter  in  a  kettle;  add 
the  meat  and  sliced  onion;  leave  until  yellow.  Then  add  the  rice, 
which  has  been  thinned  with  water  and  meat  extract,  'and  Par- 
mesan cheese  if  desired.  Put  the  closed  kettle  in  the  cooker  for 
forty-five  minutes.  Use  one  radiator. 

378  L-L 


Family  of  Four 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


VEGETABLES 

Many  vegetables  are  cooked  best  in  a  fireless  cooker,  because 
the  food  value  and  taste  are  developed.  For  those  vegetables 
that  are  cooked  or  boiled  in  water,  the  usual  recipes  can  be  applied. 
It  is  only  necessary  to  put  sufficient  boiling  water  over  the  vege- 
tables before  placing  in  the  cooker.  One  radiator  is  used.  In 
baking  such  vegetables  as  potatoes,  apples,  etc.,  both  radiators 
are  used.  Ordinary  sized  potatoes  require  from  three  quarters  to 
one  hour  cooking  time. 

Vegetables  may  be  cooked  by  all  of  the  following  three  methods, 
and  each  housewife  should  determine  to  her  own  satisfaction  which 
method  gives  the  best  results : 

1.  Vegetable  first  brought  to  boiling  point  and  placed  in  cooker 
without  radiator.  » 

2.  Vegetable  first  brought  to  boil  and  placed  in  the  cooker  with 
heated  radiator. 

3.  Vegetable  placed  in  cooker  cold  and  raw  with  heated  radiator. 
All  good  cooks  are  aware  that  some  kinds  of  vegetables  are  better 

when  cooked  at  a  boil,  such  as  potatoes  and  other  vegetables  con- 
taining a  large  percentage  of  starch;  while  other  vegetables,  such 
as  parsnips,  carrots  and  turnips,  containing  but  little  starch,  are 
hardened  by  high  heat  and  should  be  cooked  slowly.  Again, 
green  peas  and  asparagus,  containing  much  sugar,  are  better 
cooked  without  violent  boiling.  In  general,  any  foods  requiring 
long,  slow  cooking,  are  made  delicious  by  the  use  of  the  fireless. 

It  is  well  to  remember  that  the  fireless  cooker,  like  other  labor- 
saving  devices,  will  yield  its  best  results  only  to  experiment  and 
experience.  Occasionally,  a  beginner  will  become  discouraged  by 
one  or  two  failures  and  be  tempted  to  abandon  its  use.  Its 
mastery  is  not  difficult  and,  when  mastered,  it  can  readily  be 
made  to  cook  practically  anything  desired,  at  a  considerable  saving 
of  labor  and  expense, 

ASPARAGUS 

WTash  the  asparagus;  cut  off  tough  ends;  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  place  in  cooker  for  one  hour.  Drain  off  the  water  and 
cover  with  milk;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  heat  and  serve. 

BOILED  BEETS 

Wash  and  scrub,  but  do  not  cut  the  beets.  Cover  with  boiling 
water  and  allow  to  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Place  in  cooker  for  two 

379  IT-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


hours  or  more,  depending  upon  the  age  of  the  beets.  Remove 
from  cooker;  put  beets  in  cold  water  for  a  minute;  slip  off  the 
skins,  and  cut  the  beets  in  small  pieces.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter,  or  any  sauce  you  may  prefer.  To  retain  the  color  of 
the  beets  leave  on  the  root  and  about  one  half  inch  of  leaves. 


BEET  GREENS 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  greens  carefully;  add  one  cup  of  boiling 
water  for  each  quart  of  greens.  Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes;  place 
kettle  in  cooker  for  two  hours.  Drain  off  the  water;  add  salt, 
pepper  and  butter;  reheat  and  serve. 


PICKLED  BEETS 

2  cups  boiling  water  2  cups  vinegar 

4  tablespoons  sugar  1  tablespoon  salt 

l/2  teaspoon  pepper  10  cloves 

1  stick  cinnamon  10  peppercorns 

Boil  the  beets  as  usual ;  peel  and  cut  them  into  slices ;  place 
in  glass  jar.  Mix  the  sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  spices  in  the  water; 
add  vinegar  and  heat  almost  to  the  boiling  point.  Pour  this 
over  the  beets  and  allow  them  to  stand  twenty-four  hours  before 
serving. 

BAKED   BEANS 

Clean  the  beans  and  soak  in  cold  water  over  night.  Drain  off 
this  water  and  add  enough  fresh  water  to  cover  them.  Add  a  half 
pound  of  salt  pork  to  each  quart  of  beans  (measured  before  soak- 
ing); add  salt,  pepper  and  molasses  or  sugar  to  suit  taste.  Boil 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  place  kettle  in  cooker  for  six  or  eight 
hours.  Remove  to  earthen  dish  and  bake  for  two  hours  or  until 
beans  are  well  browned. 

BOILED   CABBAGE 

Remove  outside  leaves;  cut  into  quarters  and  cut  out  tough 
center.  Put  into  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  salted  water;  allow 
to  boil  for  ten  minutes  without  cover.  Cover  and  place  in  cooker 
for  one  hour.  Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  or  serve  with 
cream  sauce. 

380  L-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


BOILED   CARROTS 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots;  cut  into  slices  or  cubes;  place  in 
kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Allow  to  boil  for  five  minutes  ; 
add  salt  and  place  in  cooker  for  three  hours.  Drain  and  serve  with 
a  cream  sauce  or  melted  butter.  Carrots  may  be  cooled  and  used 
in  a  salad  if  preferred. 

CARROTS  AND  PEAS 

Cook  the  carrots  as  usual;  when  done,  drain;  add  one  can  of 
peas  and  allow  to  simmer  for  ten  minutes;  add  salt,  pepper  and 
butter  and  serve  at  once. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Remove  outside  leaves  from  cauliflower  and  place  it  in  cold 
water;  allow  to  remain  a  half  hour.  Place  in  kettle  and  cover 
with  boiling  water;  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  boil  slowly  five 
minutes;  place  in  cooker  for  one  hour.  Drain  and  serve  with 
cream  sauce. 

CREAMED   CELERY 

Wash,  clean  and  cut  into  small  pieces  enough  celery  to  make 
three  cups;  place  in  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water,  allow  to 
simmer  five  minutes.  Place  in  cooker  for  two  hours;  drain  and 
serve  with  cream  sauce. 

BAKED  CORN 

6  ears  corn  %  cup  butter 

1  cup  boiling  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  the  grains  from  the  cobs;  add  boiling  milk,  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Put  in  buttered  baking  dish;  dot  with  small 
pieces  of  butter  and  bake  in  cooker  for  one  hour. 


BAKED   CORN  AND   TOMATOES 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  canned  corn,  tomatoes* 
and  toasted  or  fried  bread  crumbs,  adding  plenty  of  salt  and  pep- 
per, a  suspicion  of  sugar  and  generous  piece  of  butter.  Have  the 
top  layer  of  crumbs.  Bake  for  one  hour. 

381  L-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY  FaPn 


Faof 


BOILED   GREEN  CORN 

Remove  the  husks  and  threads;  place  corn  in  kettle;  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  boil  for  three  minutes.  Place  in  cooker  for  one 
hour  or  more,  depending  upon  the  age  of  the  corn.  Drain  and 
serve  with  salt  and  butter. 

LIMA  BEANS—  FRESH 

Wash  the  beans  and  cover  with  water.  Add  a  small  piece  of 
salt  pork  or  butter  and  boil  for  ten  minutes;  season  and  place  in 
cooker  for  two  hours  or  more.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 

LIMA  BEANS—PUREE 

1  cup  dried  beans  1  stalk  celery 

2  cups  water  1  teaspoon  salt 
1  slice  onion                                          Dash  of  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Soak  the  beans  over  night.  Drain  ;  add  fresh  water  and  a  pinch 
of  soda.  Boil  fifteen  minutes;  add  onion  and  celery  cut  into  small 
pieces;  place  in  cooker  over  night.  Rub  through  sieve;  add  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  hot. 

BOILED   ONIONS 

Cover  the  onions  with  boiling  water.  Add  salt  and  boil  three 
minutes.  Cook  two  hours  or  longer,  using  one  hot  radiator. 
Drain;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  or  serve  with  cream 
sauce. 

PARSNIPS 

Wash  and  scrape  the  parsnips;  cut  in  slices  about  one  fourth  of 
an  inch  thick;  cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and  allow  to  boil 
for  five  minutes.  Place  in  cooker  for  three  hours.  Drain  and 
brown  in  frying  pan  or  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

PEAS 

Shell  the  peas;  throw  them  into  boiling  water  and  let  them  boil 
slowly  for  five  minutes.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Place  in 
cooker  for  two  hours  or  more. 

382  i.-b 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


MASHED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes;  cut  into  pieces  of  uniform  size, 
cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Place 
in  cooker  for  an  hour  or  an  hour  and  a  half,  depending  upon  the 
size  of  the  pieces  and  amount  in  the  kettle;  drain,  mash,  add  salt, 
pepper,  milk  and  butter,  Beat  until  smooth. 


STEAMED   POTATOES 

Wash  the  potatoes  in  fresh  water;  put  them  into  the  kettle  and 
cover  with  water  (hot  water  preferred),  clamping  the  lid  on  the 
kettle.  Heat  one  radiator  twenty  minutes;  place  kettle  over  the 
radiator  while  heating.  Pour  the  water  off  the  potatoes,  allowing 
only  a  little  to  remain  and  put  the  kettle  into  the  cooker  over  the 
radiator.  Cook  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Potatoes  may  be  pared 
or  unpared. 

BAKED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  dry  medium-sized  potatoes;  put  them  in  a  pan  and 
bake  in  the  fireless  for  forty-five  minutes.  After  fifteen  minutes 
raise  the  cover  quickly  and  allow  the  steam  to  escape. 


CREAMED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes;  cut  into  one-half-inch  cubes; 
place  in  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  salted  water.  Boil  three 
minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  forty-five  minutes.  Drain  and 
cover  with  cream  sauce.  Large  amounts  of  potatoes  may  be 
cooked  in  the  cooker  in  this  way  without  danger  of  their  breaking. 


SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

1  pint  raw  potatoes  !/2  small  onion 

Butter  l/2  cup  bread  crumbs 

Salt  and  pepper  1  cup  milk 

Peel  and  slice  the  potatoes;  put  them  in  the  kettle  in  layers, 
covering  each  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  little  onion.  Put  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  top;  pour  on  the  milk;  heat  thoroughly 
and  place  in  the  cooker.  Use  two  radiators  and  bake  two  and  a 
half  hours. 

383  L-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


POTATOES  FOR  SALAD 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size;  wash  and  remove  the  eyes. 
Place  potatoes  in  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Add  one 
tablespoon  of  salt  for  each  quart  of  water.  Boil  five  minutes  if 
potatoes  are  small,  ten  if  large.  Place  in  cooker  for  two  hours. 
Drain  and  allow  to  cool  uncovered. 

SAUER  KRAUT 

Place  a  pound  of  sliced  fresh  pork  in  a  vessel  and  add  a  quart  of 
sauer  kraut;  cover  with  water  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Put  in 
the  cooker  and  allow  it  to  remain  for  six  hours. 

SPINACH 

Clean  and  wash  the  spinach,  carefully  removing  roots;  place  in 
kettle  and  add  half  as  much  boiling  water  as  spinach;  salt  and  boil 
slowly  ten  minutes.  Place  in  cooker  three  hours;  drain;  add 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  vinegar  and  hard-boiled 
eggs. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS 

To  prepare  red  and  green  sweet  peppers  for  stuffing,  cut  off  the 
top  and  with  a  knife  cut  out  and  remove  the  veins  and  seeds.  The 
peppers  may  be  filled  with  a  variety  of  mixtures  —  chopped  cold 
meats  and  seasoned  bread  crumbs  and  onion  juice,  or  other  sea- 
soning, or  plain  boiled  rice;  in  any  or  all  cases  moisten  liberally 
with  melted  butter.  Stand  close  together  in  a  dish;  pour  on  a 
little  stock  ©r  boiling  water  and  bake  in  the  cooker  for  one  half 
hour. 

SQUASH 

Cut  the  squash  into  pieces;  remove  seeds  and  pare.  Cut  into 
small  pieces^  and  add  water  almost  to  cover.  Boil  ten  minutes 
and  place  in  cooker  two  hours.  Drain,  mash  and  season  with  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper.  If  the  butter  is  browned  slightly  it  will  im- 
prove the  flavor. 

STRING  BEANS 

Break  rather  than  cut  the  beans  into  small  pieces  of  about  one 
half  inch  and,  unless  they  are  very  fresh,  it  is  well  to  soak  them  in 
ice  water  one  hour  before  cooking.  Then  throw  them  into  boiling- 
water;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  butter.  Cover 
the  dish;  place  in  the  cooker  and  leave  two  hours  or  more. 

384  L-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


BAKED   SWEET  POTATOES 

Prepare  in  the  same  way  as  white  potatoes  and  bake  by  same 
method.     They  will  cook  in  about  the  same  time. 


WHITE  TURNIPS 

Wash  and  pare  the  turnips;  cut  into  slices  and  cover  with  boil- 
ing water.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  and  place  in  cooker  for  four 
hours.  Drain  and  mash;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter 
and  serve  hot.  Use  two  radiators. 


YELLOW  TURNIPS 

Prepare  yellow  turnips  or  rutabagas,  as  they  are  sometimes 
called,  in  the  same  manner  as  white  turnips,  but  leave  in  the  cooker 
from  one  to  two  hours  longer,  as  they  require  more  cooking. 

BOILED  TOMATOES 

Wash  the  tomatoes  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  allowing 
them  to  remain  in  it  about  one  half  minute  or  less  if  they  are  very 
ripe.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  peel.  Cut  into  pieces  and  add 
salt,  pepper  to  taste,  butter  and  a  small  amount  of  sugar.  Boil 
for  five  minutes;  place  in  cooker  and  allow  to  remain  one  hour. 

STEWED  TOMATOES 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  quart  tomatoes 

1  level  tablespoon  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

Salt  and  pepper 

Rub  the  butter,  melted,  into  the  flour;  add  the  tomatoes  and 
seasoning  and  put  in  the  covered  kettle  in  the  cooker  for  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Use  one  radiator. 


BAKED  MACARONI 

!/2  pound  macaroni  2  cups  cream  sauce 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  Vz  cup  bread  crumbs 

Break  the  sticks  into  small  pieces;  add  salt  and  boil  for  thirty 
minutes.  Add  cream  sauce  and  bake  for  two  and  a  half  hours, 
using  both  radiators.  Reheat  and  serve. 

385  L-I- 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE 

Cook  the  macaroni  as  for  baking.  Place  a  layer  of  macaroni 
in  a  pudding  dish;  cover  with  a  layer  of  cream  sauce  and  a  layer 
of  grated  cheese.  Alternate  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Put  layer  of 
bread  crumbs  on  top  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  for  two  hours, 
using  both  radiators. 

MACARONI   WITH  TOMATOES 

Prepare  macaroni  as  for  baking.  Put  layer  of  tomatoes  in 
pudding  dish;  cover  with  macaroni;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter.  Repeat  this  until  the  dish  is  full.  Sprinkle  cracker 
crumbs  on  the  top  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  slowly  for  an  hour. 

BREAD  AND  BISCUITS 

In  baking  bread  or  biscuits  the  fireless  cooker  is  a  pronounced 
success,  as  it  browns  the  crusts  and  bakes  thoroughly  without 
burning.  The  cooker  is  also  an  excellent  place  to  set  the  sponge 
to  rise,  for  the  temperature  is  always  the  same,  and  no  matter 
what  condition  the  kitchen  may  be  in  over  night,  the  sponge  will 
be  kept  perfectly  warm. 

Use  two  radiators  -for  baking  bread,  biscuits,  cakes  and  pies, 
placing  one  radiator  below  bread  or  pastry  rack  and  one  above, 
and  have  only  one  pan  of  bread,  cake  or  pie  in  the  rack  at  a  time. 
After  the  pastry  has  been  cooking  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  if  the 
cooker  is  not  provided  with  a  steam  outlet,  open  and  close  the  top 
quickly  to  let  the  steam  escape.  Do  not  open  again  until  the  full 
cooking  time  has  elapsed.  Opening  the  cooker  and  letting  out 
the  steam  prevents  the  bread  and  pastry  from  becoming  soggy 
and  permits  it  to  brown.  The  regular  recipes  can  be  used,  but 
several  are  here  given.  A  few  experiments  will  enable  one  to 
make  a  satisfactory  time  schedule. 

BREAD 

4  potatoes  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  quart  water  1  tablespoon  lukewarm  water 

2  tablespoons  salt  3  quarts  flour 

4  teaspoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  lard 

Boil  the  potatoes  in  the  water.  When  thoroughly  done,  mash; 
add  salt  and  sugar.  Dissolve  the  yeast  cake  in  lukewarm  water; 
mix  potato  water  and  yeast  together;  place  this  in  small  aluminum 

386  Ir-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


dish  and  leave  over  night  in  the  cooker,  so  as  to  keep  it  warm  and 
out  of  drafts.  In  the  morning  rub  the  lard  into  the  flour;  add  the 
yeast;  mix  down,  adding  enough  flour  to  make  it  stiff;  place  this 
in  large  aluminum  pail  and  put  it  into  the  cooker  to  rise.  When 
light,  cut  into  loaves;  work  down  smooth  and  put  in  the  large 
aluminum  vessel.  Have  the  radiators  hot  and  use  them  just  the 
same  as  when  roasting  beef. 

TEA  BISCUITS 

Follow  the  usual  recipe  and  bake  with  two  very  hot  radiators. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  No.  1 

2  cups  yellow  corn  meal  3  teaspoons  baking  soda 

2  cups  graham  flour  1  cup  hot  water 

1  cup  wheat  flour  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  quart  buttermilk 

2  teaspoons  melted  lard  or  butter 

Mix  the  corn  meal,  graham  flour,  wheat  flour  and  salt  thoroughly 
together.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  hot  water.  Whip  all  the 
liquids  together;  turn  into  the  mixed  flour;  beat  well  and  add  the 
melted  lard  or  butter.  Bake  in  the  cooker,  using  two  very  hot 
radiators,  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

BROWN   BREAD  No.  2 

1  quart  buttermilk  or  sour  milk  2  cups  yellow  corn  meal 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  l/z  cup  currants  or  raisins 

ll/2  tablespoons  soda  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  tablespoon  salt  3^  teaspoon  allspice 

1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses  V2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

4  cups  coarse  graham  flour  y4  teaspoon  ginger 

Mix  the  first  five  ingredients  thoroughly;  add  the  flour  and 
meal;  mix  well;  add  the  fruit  and  spices.  Bake  for  three  hours, 
using  two  radiators. 

The  fruit  and  spices  may  be  omitted  if  desired. 

STEAMED  GRAHAM  BREAD 

3  cups  graham  flour  1  cup  white  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt                                       3  teaspoons  soda 

1  cup  molasses  2l/2  cups  sour  milk 

Mix  and  cook  the  same  as  Boston  Brown  Bread,  using  one 
radiator. 

387 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


CAKE 

Any  kind  of  cake  can  be  baked  in  the  fireless  cooker;  but  dif- 
ferent cakes  require  different  heats,  which  can  only  be  learned  by 
experience.  For  instance  :  a  batter  with  butter  in  it  requires  more 
heat  than  a  light  batter  without  butter.  One  must  consider  this 
fact  in  heating  the  radiators  and  in  keeping  the  cake  in  the  cooker. 
Use  ordinary  cake  pans,  placing  same  in  bread  and  pastry  rack 
which  is  furnished,  using  two  radiators.  It  is  a  good  plan  after 
the  cake  has  been  in  the  cooker  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  to  open  the 
top  quickly  and  let  the  steam  escape,  if  no  steam  outlet  is  pro- 
vided. Below  are  a  few  recipes  that  have  been  well  tried  out  on 
the  fireless  cooker. 

ANGEL  CAKE 

1  cup  sifted  flour  Whites  of  8  to  10  eggs 

1V4  cups  sifted  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

l/2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Sift  the  flour  four  or  five  times  before  measuring;  then  sift  and 
measure  the  sugar.  Add  the  salt  to  the  eggs;  beat  them  to  a 
froth;  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  very  stiff.  Stir  in  sugar; 
then  flour,  very  lightly.  Put  in  a  pan  in  the  pastry  rack  and  bake 
between  two  moderately  hot  radiators. 


SPONGE   CAKE  No.    1 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  l/2  cup  hot  milk 

1  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  flavoring 

Beat  the  yolks;  stir  into  them  the  sugar  and  beaten  whites; 
then  fold  in  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  weil  sifted.  Add  the  hot 
milk  and  flavoring  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes,  using  both  radi- 
ators. 

SPONGE   CAKE   No.   2 

4  eggs  Juice  and  rind  of  l/2  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  separately.  Into  the 
yolks  stir  the  sugar,  lemon  and  whites;  then  fold  in  the  flour. 
Bake  between  two  moderately  hot  radiators  for  twenty-five 
minutes. 


£mnydof°Foaur  __  FIRELESS   COOKERY 

CHRISTMAS  CAKE 

ll/2  pounds  flour  1  pound  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  pound  butter 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg  12  eggs 

14  teaspoon  cloves  %  cup  currant  jelly 

%  teaspoon  allspice  !J/2  teaspoons  soda 

1  pound  citron  1  cup  molasses 

1  pound  currants  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  pounds  seeded  raisins  Dash  of  red  pepper 

Divide  the  flour  into  two  parts  ;  into  one  half  put  the  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  cloves  and  allspice,  and  into  the  other  mix  the  fruit. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  then  the 
soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water  and  mixed  with  the  molasses, 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  round  buttered  pans  and  bake  between 
two  moderately  hot  radiators  for  two  hours. 


GINGERBREAD 

3/4  CUP  lard  *  tablespoon  mixed  spices 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  ginger 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  soda 

1  cup  molasses  1  tablespoon  hot  water 

1  tablespoon  cloves  Flour 

1  cup  boiling  water 

Cream  the  lard  and  sugar;    add  the  other  ingredients  in  the 
order  named,  dissolving  the  soda  in  the  hot  water  before  using. 

SOUR-MILK  CAKE 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  level  teaspoon  soda 
*/2  cup  butter  i/2  cup  chopped  raisins 

2  cups  flour  Spices  to  taste 

Mix  all  well  together.     Bake  in  a  loaf  with  two  radiators. 

NUT  CAKE 

l/2  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

l/2  cup  milk  Whites  of  2  eggs 

Chop  the  nutmeats  and  sprinkle  with  flour.     Cream  the  butter, 
sugar  and  yolks;  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour  in  which  the  baking 

2(5  389  I.-L 


FIRELESS    COOKERY 


powder  has  been  sifted;  then  the  nut-meats  and,  last,  the  well- 
whipped  whites.  Bake  in  layers  or  in  round  cake  dish.  Remove 
and  ice  with  caramel  icing  and  nut-meats.  Bake  with  two  radi- 
ators. 

DRIED  FRUITS 

Dried  fruits  are  especially  satisfactory  when  prepared  in  the 
fireless  cooker;  for  they  can  be  cooked  the  long  time  that  is  neces- 
sary to  their  perfection,  without  danger  of  being  broken  or  re- 
duced to  a  mush. 

APPLES 

Wash  the  apples  in  cold  water,  soak  over  night  and  cook  in  the 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked.  Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes, 
adding  sugar,  lemon  and  spices  to  taste.  Place  in  cooker  for  six 
hours. 

APRICOTS 

Wash  the  fruit  carefully  and  allow  it  to  soak  in  cold  water  over 
night.  Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes  in  same  water;  add  sugar  to 
taste  and  place  in  cooker  for  four  hours. 


BLACK  FIGS 

Wash  figs  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  Boil  slowly  for 
five  minutes  in  same  water  in  which  they  were  soaked;  add  sugar 
to  taste;  cook  until  sugar  is  dissolved;  place  in  cooker  for  three 
or  four  hours.  Serve  coid  with  cream. 


FIGS 

Cut  stems  from  figs;  cover  with  cold  water;  add  a  slice  of  lemon 
and  simmer  for  five  minutes.  Add  sugar  to  taste  and  cook  five 
minutes  longer.  Place  in  cooker  for  three  hours. 

DRIED   PEACHES 

Wash  peaches  in  cold  water;  drain  and  cover  with  fresh  water; 
allow  to  soak  over  night.  Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes  in  water  in 
which  they  were  soaked;  add  sugar  to  taste  and  place  in  cooker 
for  four  hours. 

390  v-* 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


DRIED  PEARS 

Cook  pears  the  same  as  peaches.  A  few  whole  cloves,  a  sinaJI 
piece  of  cinnamon  and  a  slice  of  lemon  added  while  pears  are  boil- 
ing will  improve  their  flavor. 

PRUNES 

Wash  the  prunes  in  cold  water;  cover  with  fresh  water  and 
allow  to  soak  over  night.  Simmer  for  five  minutes  in  the  same 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked;  add  sugar  to  taste  and  when 
sugar  is  dissolved  and  tho  prunes  boiling  hot,  place  in  the  cooker 
for  four  hours. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pinch  of  salt 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  Nutmeg  if  desired 

5  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  Whites  of  4  eggs 

1   teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  stir  well;  add 
the  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  nutmeg;  fold  in  the  whipped  whites 
of  eggs;  add  the  baking  powder  and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish. 
Boil  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  on  the  stove  for  fifteen  minutes; 
then  place  in  the  cooker  for  one  hour.  Use  two  radiators. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

l/4  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  egg  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Take  the  sugar,  butter  and  egg  and  beat  well  together;  add  the 
im'lk  and  the  baking  powder  well  sifted  in  the  flour.  Bake  in 
shallow  pan  between  two  moderately  hot  radiators  for  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  with  sauce. 

FIG   PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 

l/2  cup  butter  2l/3  cups  flour 

l/2  cup  water  1/2  cup  figs  chopped  fine 

Whites  of  4  eggs 

Cream  the  butter;    add  the  sugar  gradually;    sift  the  bakin 
powder  with  the  flour,  and  add  milk  and  flour  alternately;    ad 

391  r,  t 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


figs  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs.  Pour  mixture  into  buttered 
molds;  place  mold  in  kettle  and  add  boiling  water  until  it  almost 
comes  to  top  of  molds.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  and  place  in  cooker 
for  two  hours.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

CHERRY  PUDDING 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Fig  Pudding,  adding  one  cup  of  fresii 
cherries.  If  the  cherries  are  very  juicy  add  about  two  tablespoons 
more  of  flour.  Cooked  cherries  may  be  used:  drain  them  and  save 
the  juice  for  sauce. 

TAPIOCA  AND   APPLES 

l/2  CUP  pearl  tapioca  %  cup  sugar 

4  cups  boiling  water  6  sour  apples 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  cold  water  for  two  hours.  Drain  and  add 
the  boiling  water;  boil  five  minutes;  add  the  sugar  and  salt,  and 
when  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  place  in  the  cooker  for  two  hours. 
Pare  and  core  the  apples;  cut  into  pieces  or  leave  whole;  place 
in  buttered  dish  and  cover  with  cooked  tapioca.  Bake  until 
apples  are  soft.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

The  minute  tapioca  may  be  used,  and  it  needs  no  soaking. 

TAPIOCA   CUSTARD   PUDDING 

1  cup  pearl  or  minute  tapioca  3  eggs 

1  cup  water       %  3£  CUp  sugar 

3  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Soak  pearl  tapioca  in  cold  water  one  hour;  drain  and  advl 
water.  Heat  to  boiling  point;  add  milk,  sugar  and  salt,  cook 
slowly  for  five  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  Place 
in  cooker  for  two  hours.  Add  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  butter. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  until  brown. 

The  minute  tapioca  needs  no  soaking. 

OTHER  PUDDINGS 

Puddings  which  require  considerable  cooking,  are  usually  better 
if  prepared  by  the  fireless  method.  Rice  pudding  will  require 
about  five  hours. 

392  I-L 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


APPLE  PIE 

Line  the  plate  with  the  crust.  On  the  bottom  scatter  a 
quarter  of  a  cup  of  sugar  mixed  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  laying 
apples  carefully  up  to  the  desired  thickness.  Sprinkle  sugar  on 
the  top  and  put  in  small  pieces  of  butter.  Place  in  the  cooker, 
using  both  radiators,  for  about  forty-five  minutes. 

Any  fruit  pies  can  be  baked  in  this  manner. 

CHERRY  PIE 

Stone  ripe  cherries;  sweeten  to  taste;  and  sift  a  small  quantity 
of  flour  over  the  fruit  to  thicken  the  juice.  Bake  in  two  crusts 
in  the  cooker  for  one  hour. 


CUSTARD    PIE 

Make  a  custard  of  two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  pint  of 
milk,  a  little  butter  and  flavoring.  Make  the  paste  in  the  usual 
way  and  put  it  in  a  round  pie  dish  that  will  fit  in  the  large  com- 
partment. Fill  in  the  usual  way  and  bake  in  the  cooker  with 
two  radiators,  one  above  the  pie  and  the  other  below  it. 

LEMON  PIE 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  l/4  cup  butter 

1  tablespoon  cold  water  1  egg 

Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon 

Put  the  water  into  small  saucepan  and  add  cornstarch  stirred 
smooth  in  cold  water;  when  it  boils  after  stirring,  set  off  the 
stove  and  add  butter  and  sugar,  previously  well  stirred  together. 
When  cool  add  egg  and  lemon.  Pour  into  crust  in  pan  and  re- 
move to  cooker,  using  both  radiators.  This  will  bake  in  twenty 
minutes.  After  baking,  cover  with  meringue  and  place  in  the 
cabinet  to  brown,  again  using  both  radiators. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

2  eggs  well  beaten  2  cups  milk 

34  cup  sugar  iy2  cups  cooked  pumpkin 

Mix  the  ingredients;  salt  to  taste,  season  with  nutmeg,  cinnamon, 
a  little  ginger  and  melted  butter.  Bake  in  the  cooker  one  hour. 

393 


FIRELESS     COOKERY FamiYy  ol  Four 

FROZEN  DESSERTS 

As  the  cookers  retain  cold  as  well  as  heat,  any  frozen  dessert 
which  does  not  require  to  be  stirred — mousse  or  parfait,  for 
instance — can  be  made  in  them.  Set  one  pail  inside  the  other, 
filling  the  outer  one  with  chopped  ice  and  salt  and  the  inner  one 
with  the  prepared  mixture.  Place  in  the  cooker  and  let  stand 
for  about  five  hours.  It  is  advisable  to  use  containers  other  than 
those  made  of  aluminum  for  this  purpose,  because  salt  brine 
attacks  aluminum  and  may  in  time  destroy  it. 


394  Ir-L 


CHAFING-DISH  COOKERY 


What  sweeter  picture  of  domesticity  than  the  Queen  of  Hearts  pre- 
siding over  the  chafing  dish! 

— Romance  of  a  Youth. 


396 


CHAFING-DISH  COOKERY 

WHEN  the  fryingpan,  in  the  form  of  the  chafing  dish,  first 
entered  society  it  was  regarded'as  a  fashionable  fad  with 
which  to  entertain  guests.     It  has  long  since  proved  its  worth  by 
introducing  many  a  novice  to  the  gentle  art  of  cooking. 

Where  one  is  fortunate  enough  to  have  an  electrically  equipped 
home,  the  management  of  the  chafing  dish  becomes  child's  play, 
an  adventure  in  fairyland.  Where  alcohol  is  the  fuel,  a  few  prac- 
tical suggestions  may  be  worth  while:  Be  sure  that  the  lamp  is 
filled  and  in  working  order.  Place  the  equipment  on  a  tray  to 
protect  the  table  from  the  heat.  Have  all  ingredients  ready  before 
beginning  to  cook.  When  the  dish  requires  steaming,  use  the  hot- 
water  pan  to  prevent  burning.  To  cook  food  quickly,  or  to  cook 
it  brown,  use  only  the  blazer,  properly  heated. 

BOUILLON 

2  teaspoons  beef  extract  Salt  and  pepper 

l/2  teaspoon  onion  juice  Pinch  of  mace 

1  quart  water 

Heat  the  water;  add  the  extract  and  seasonings.  Serve  in 
bouillon  cups,  with  salted  wafers. 

» 

SHRIMP  WIGGLE 

1  cup  canned  peas  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  small  can  shrimps  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Dash  of  red  pepper 

Melt  the  butter;  stir  in  the  flour  and  seasoning;  then  add 
the  milk  gradually.  When  it  thickens  empty  into  it  the  peas 
and  shrimps ;  cover  and  when  heated  through  serve  in  patty  cups 
or  on  crackers. 

397  L-L 


CHAFING-DISH   COOKERY 


CREAM   OF  TOMATO 

1  can  tomato  soup  1  cup  cream  or  milk 

Heat  the  soup;  stir  in  the  cream  or  milk,  preferably  hot; 
add  more  seasoning  if  needed  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  if  rnilk 
is  used  instead  of  cream.  Serve  with  salted  wafers  or  buttered 
toast. 

RINKTUM  DITTY 

2  tablespoons  butter  Dash  of  paprika 
2  cups  grated  cheese  Salt 

1  cup  tomatoes  Worcestershire  sauce 

]/2  teaspoon  soda  1  egg 

Melt  the  cheese  in  the  butter;  add  the  tomatoes,  soda  and 
seasoning,  then  the  egg,  well  beaten.  Serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

CHICKEN  HOLLANDAISE 

1  cup  cold  chicken  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  butter  *4  cup  milk 
Salt  and  paprika  1  egg 

Cook  the  chicken  in  the  butter  for  five  minutes;  add  the 
seasoning  and  lemon  juice.  When  thoroughly  mixed  add  the 
milk  and  the  egg,  well  beaten.  Stir  until  it  thickens  and  serve 
in  patty  cups  or  on  crackers. 

ENGLISH  MONKEY 

l/2  cup  bread  crumbs  J/2  cup  grated  cheese 

1/2  cup  milk  Salt  and  red  pepper 

1  teaspoon  butter  1  egg 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  for  twenty  minutes.  Melt 
the  cheese  in  the  butter;  add  the  seasoning;  stir  in  the  soaked 
bread  crumbs  and  cook  several  minutes.  Then  add  the  egg,  well 
beaten,  and  as  soon  as  that  is  stirred  in  serve  on  toasted  soda 
crackers. 

WELSH  RAREBIT 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  egg 

1  pound  American  cheese  %  teaspoon  mustard 

*/2  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

Salt  and  red  pepper 

Chop  the  cheese  into  fine  pieces  and  melt  them  in  the  butter. 
Stir  constantly  and  gradually  add  the  milk.  Beat  the  egg;  mix 

398  K-L 


CHAFING-DISH  COOKERY 


well  with  the  seasoning  and  stir  into  the  chafing  dish.  When 
the  whole  mixture  is  thoroughly  heated  pour  it  over  toasted  bread 
or  crackers. 

MEXICAN  RAREBIT 

l/2  tablespoon  butter  1  pint  can  tomatoes 

1  small  onion  1  egg 

Salt  and  red  pepper 

Cut  the  onion  in  small  pieces  and  fry  in  the  butter  until 
brown.  Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  seasoning  and  cook  until 
the  tomatoes  are  tender.  Just  before  serving  add  the  egg,  well 
beaten.  Serve  on  toasted  crackers. 


MACARONI  RAREBIT 

1  cup  boiled  macaroni  l/2  teaspoon  mustard 

1  tablespoon  butter  %  teaspoon  paprika 
l/2  cup  grated  cheese                             2  eggs 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  V2  cup  milk 

Squares  of  buttered  toast 

Heat  the  boiled  macaroni  in  the  butter,  with  the  cheese  and 
seasonings.  When  hot  and  the  cheese  melted,  add  the  eggs,  well 
beaten  in  the  milk.  Stir  until  the  rarebit  thickens  and  serve  on 
toast. 

MT.   CLEMENS  RAREBIT 

6  ounces  American  cheese  2  chopped  green  peppers 

2  ounces  butter  y2  can  red  kidney  beans 

Squares  of  buttered  toast 

Melt  the  cheese;  add  the  butter,  then  the  pepper,  and  last, 
the  beans.  When  thoroughly  hot  serve  on  buttered  toast. 


CURRIED  EGGS 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  l/z  teaspoon  curry  powder 

1  cup  cream  sauce  Salt  and  pepper 

Chop   the  eggs;    heat   thoroughly   in   the   sauce;    add  curry 

powder,  more  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  in  patty  shells  or  on 
squares  of  buttered  toast. 

399  L-L 


CHAFING-DISH   COOKERY 


Planned  for 


STIRRED   EGGS 

1  tablespoon  butter  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

1/2  cup  brown  sauce  Vz  saltspoon  pepper 

5  eggs  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Buttered  toast 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  gravy;  when  hot  stir  in  the  beaten 
eggs.  Season  and  stir  until  the  eggs  thicken.  Serve  on  toast  and 
sprinkle  with  parsley. 

TOMATO   SCRAMBLE 

1  tablespoon  butter  V2  teaspoon  salt 

4  eggs  l/2  saltspoon  pepper 

4  tablespoons  milk  1  cup  canned  tomatoes 

Melt  the  butter;  stir  in  the  eggs,  well  beaten  with  the  milk; 
add  the  tomatoes  after  they  have  been  drained;  season  and  cook 
until  the  eggs  thicken. 

STOCK  SCRAMBLE 

1  cup  stock  l/2  sweet  green  pepper 

1/2  onion  6  eggs 

Salt  and  red  pepper 

Beat  the  eggs  very  thoroughly  in  a  shallow  bowl.  Place 
the  stock  in  the  chafing  dish  together  with  the  onion  and  pepper, 
both  finely  chopped;  cover  and  when  hot  throw  in  the  eggs  and 
scramble  slightly.  Season  and  serve  with  thin  slices  of  bread 
and  butter. 

CHEESE  SCRAMBLE 

6  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter 
4  tablespoons  milk                                1  cup  broken  cheese 

Salt  and  pepper 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  and  stir  into  them  the  milk  and 
seasoning.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish;  pour  in  the  eggs 
and  milk;  then  the  cheese.  Stir  occasionally  until  the  eggs  are 
cooked.  Serve  with  crisp  crackers. 

TERRAPIN 

The  prepared  terrapin  is  best  for  use  in  the  chafing  "dish  and 
needs  only  to  be  thoroughly  heated  and  seasoned.  Add  a  little 
Currant  jelly  and  serve, 

400  L-L 


CHAFING-DISH   COOKERY 


OYSTER  PAN-ROAST 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

1  pint  oysters  6  slices  buttered  toast 

Put  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish  and  when  it  melts  add  the 
oysters,  washed,  and  the  juice  which  has  come  from  them,  strained. 
Season;  cover;  cook  for  two  minutes  and  serve  on  the  buttered 
toast. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS  AND  CELERY 

1  pint  oysters  l/2  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  l/2  saltspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons  flour  V2  saltspoon  celery  salt 
Milk  Squares  of  buttered  toast 

l/2  cup  chopped  celery 

Cook  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor;  skim;  drain  and 
reserve  the  liquor.  Cook  the  flour  in  the  butter;  stir  in  gradually 
the  oyster  juice,  to  which  milk  has  been  added  to  make  one  and  a 
half  cups.  Stir  until  the  sauce  thickens;  reheat  the  oysters; 
season  and  serve  on  squares  of  buttered  toast,  sprinkling  chopped 
celery  over  all. 

PANNED   OYSTERS 

25  oysteis  2  tablespoons  currant  jelly 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Squares  of  toast 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish;  add  the  oysters  and  cook 
until  the  edges  begin  to  curl;  add  the  jelly;  season  and  serve 
on  small  squares  of  toast. 

ROASTED   OYSTERS 

Purchase  oysters  in  the  shell  and  wash  them  carefully  in  running 
water,  using  a  stiff  brush.  Place  them  in  a  pan  with  the  deep  half 
of  the  shell  down;  put  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  untill  the  shells 
open.  Take  the  oysters  out  with  a  sharp  knife  and  toss  them  into 
a  chafing  dish,  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Cover  closely;  bring 
to  a  boil  and  serve. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS 

Take  as  many  oysters  as  you  wish;  wash  and  dry  them. 
Roll  each  in  a  slice  of  thin  bacon  and  fasten  the  ends  with  a  wooden 
toothpick.  Place  them  in  the  chafing  dish  and  cock  until  the 
bacon  is  crisp. 

401 


CHAFING-DISH  COOKERY 

Planned 
Family  of 

'tor  a 
Four 

LOBSTER  A  LA 

li/2  cups  boiled  lobster 
1  tablespoon  butter 
Salt  and  pepper 

CREME 

1/2  cup  water 
Yolks  of  3  eggs 
1  cup  cream 

Cut  the  lobster  meat  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  in  the  chafing 
dish  with  the  butter,  seasoning  thoroughly.  Pour  the  water  over 
it;  cook  ten  minutes;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the 
cream.  Bring  all  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

LOBSTER  STEW 

1  f  naii  inVicfpr  Pinch  of  soda 

3  c£)f mUk  3  buttered  crackers 

Ltano^pper  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Cut  the  lobster  meat  into  small  bits.  Scald  the  milk,  stirring 
in  the  seasoning  and  soda.  Dip  the  toasted  buttered  crackers 
in  the  hot  milk  and  keep  them  warm.  Add  the  butter  and  flour 
well  rubbed  together  to  the  milk,  and  when  it  thickens  add  the 
lobster.  Cook  for  five  minutes  and  pour  over  the  crackers. 

DEVILED   LOBSTER 

2  cups  boiled  lobster  1A  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  curry  powder  V2  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  teaspoon  mustard  4  tablespoons  butter 

Lettuce 

Cut  the  lobster  into  small  pieces;  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  the  seasonings.  Melt  the  rest  of 
the  butter;  cook  the  lobster  in  it  and  serve  on  fresh  lettuce  leaves. 

OJAMS  A  LA  'CREME 

1  pint  clams  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  butter  ¥2  cup  cream 
Salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg                       Buttered  toast 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Separate  the  hard  from  the  soft  parts  of  the  clams  and  chop 
the  hard  parts  fine.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish;  add  a 
little  salt,  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg,  then  the  clams;  bring  ail 
to  a  boil.  Beat  together  the  eggs  and  the  cream;  stir  into  the  not 
mixture;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  on  squares  of  buttered  toast. 
Sprinkle  the  parsley  lightly  over  the  top. 

402  *-*• 


CHAFING-DISH  COOKERY 


CRAB   A  LA   CREME 

Prepare  the  same  as  Lobster  a  la  Creme,, 

SHRIMP  A  LA  CREME 
Prepare  the  same  as  Lobster  a  la  Creme. 

CLAM   AND   EGG   SCRAMBLE 

1  dozen  clams  4  tablespoons  clam  juice 

5  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter 

Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  and  scrub  the  clams;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  half 
a  cup  of  water;  cover  closely  and  cook  until  the  shells  open.  Re- 
move the  clams  and  save  the  juice  for  bouillon  or  other  purposes. 
Chop  the  clams  fine.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly;  add  the  clams  and 
four  tablespoons  of  the  juice.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  chafing 
dish  ;  turn  in  the  mixture  and  stir  over  hot  water  until  cooked  to  a 
soft  scramble.  Dust  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

CLAM  TOAST 

1  dozen  small  clams  Vi  cup  scalded  milk 

1  egg  yolk  4  slices  buttered  toast 

Salt  and  pepper 

Clean  the  clams;  cut  them  into  small  pieces  and  simmer  a 
few  minutes.  Beat  the  egg  yolk;  add  slowly  to  the  scalded 
milk;  combine  with  the  clams  and  just  before  serving  add  the 
seasoning.  Pour  over  buttered  toast. 

CANVAS-BACK  DUCKS 

Roast  the  ducks  for  twenty  minutes;  serve  whole;  carve 
them  at  the  table;  lay  them  in  the  chafing  dish  with  red  pepper, 
salt,  a  large  piece  of  butter,  half  a  glass  of  currant  jelly  and  an 
equal  quantity  of  grape  juice.  Simmer  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

SARDINE   SAVORY 

1  box  sardines  Anchovy  essence 

1  cup  brown  sauce  1  tablespoon  sardine  oil 

Remove  the  sardines  from  the  box  and  heat  them  thoroughly 
in  the  brown  sauce;  season  with  anchovy  essence  and  sardine 
oil.  Serve  with  egg  sandwiches  made  from  graham  or  rye  bread. 

'      403 


CHAFING-DISH   COOKERY 


CREAMED   SARDINES 

1  box  sardines  1  chopped  hard-boiled  egg 

1  cup  cream  sauce  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Drain  the  sardines  from  their  oil,  and  if  they  are  not  boneless, 
remove  the  bones.  Heat  thoroughly  in  the  sauce;  add  the  egg 
and  parsley;  serve  on  squares  of  toasted  bread  or  crackers. 

FROG   SADDLES 

Frogs'  legs  Viz  CUP  cream 

3  tablespoons  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

ll/2  tablespoons  flour  Few  gratings  of  nutmeg 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  flour;  stir  until  smooth;  add  the 
cream  gradually  and  stir  until  boiling.  Put  in  the  legs;  season 
and  cover;  cook  twenty  minutes,  adding  more  cream  if  necessary. 


QUAIL 

2  plump  quail  1  teaspoon  onion 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

]/2  CUP  seasoned  broth  Celery  salt 

l/2  cup  currant  jelly  1  tablespoon  mushroom  catsup 

Split  the  birds  open  down  the  back.  Put  the  butter  in  the 
chafing  dish  and  brown  slightly;  put  in  the  birds  and  cook  about 
ten  minutes,  turning  once.  When  nicely  browned  add  the  broth, 
jelly,  catsup,  onion  juice  and  other  seasonings. 

FRIZZLE-DIZZLE 

2  ounces  smoked  dried  beef  3  eggs 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

Dash  of  red  pepper 

Remove  all  fat  and  gristle  from  the  beef;  tear  into  small 
pieces  and  cook  slightly  in  the  butter.  Add  the  beaten  eggs, 
cheese  and  red  pepper;  scramble  and  serve  with  crisp  crackers. 

VEAL  WITH  ASPARAGUS  TIPS 

2  cups  cooked  veal  Yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

1  cup  cooked  asparagus  tips  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Rub  the  yolks  and  butter  to  a  paste;  heat  with  the  milk  in 
the  chafing  dish,  stirring  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Put  in  the 
veal  and  asparagus;  season;  cook  five  minutes  and  serve. 

404  L-L 


CHAFING-DISH   COOKERY 


DEVILED   MEAT 

Cold  mutton,  chicken  or  other  meat       1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  tablespoon  butter  %  teaspoon  mustard 

1  teaspoon  vinegar  Dash  of  cayenne 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter,  vinegar  and  seasonings.  Make 
cuts  in  the  meat;  rub  the  sauce  into  them;  and  grill  in  a  hot 
chafing  dish  that  has  been  rubbed  with  a  little  butter. 

BEEF  CHAUFFE 

Slices  of  cold  roast  beef  3  tablespoons  jelly 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  red  pepper 

%  cup  water 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  jelly,  seasonings,  water  and  beef. 
Cover  and  cook  until  the  beef  is  thoroughly  hot. 

MUSHROOMS  WITH  BACON 

8  slices  bacon  Mushrooms 

Fry  the  bacon  in  the  usual  way;  just  before  it  is  done  add  the 
mushroons;  fry  and  serve. 

TOMATO   CURRY 

2  cups  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  curry 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  red  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  Pinch  of  soda 

1  cup  cream 

Cook  the  tomatoes  in  the  chafing  dish;  add  the  flour,  wel? 
rubbed  in  the  butter,  also  the  curry,  salt  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper. 
When  the  mixture  thickens  add  a  pinch  of  soda;  stir  and  add  the 
sream.  Serve  on  toasted  bread  or  crackers. 

MACARONI  MILANAISE 

2  tablespoons  butter  V2  cup  brown  stock 

2  tablespoons  flour  V2  cup  strained  tomatoes 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  cooked  macaroni 

l/4  teaspoon  paprika  i/4  cup  Parmesan  cheese 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  first  six  ingredients;  add  the  macaroni 
and  when  that  is  hot,  the  cheese.  Lift  and  relift  the  macaroni 
until  it  is  thoroughly  blended  with  the  mixture. 

27  405  M. 


CHAFING-DISH  COOKERY 


Family  of  Four 


APPLE  DAINTY 

4  tart  apples  1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar 

Juice  of  y2  lemon  1  tablespoon  butter 

Dash  of  nutmeg  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Pare  and  core  the  apples;  cut  them  into  slices  half  an  inch 
thick;  cook  with  the  lemon,  nutmeg  and  granulated  sugar,  keeping 
the  cover  on  the  pan.  When  tender,  saute  in  butter;  dust  with 
powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  serve. 

FIG  DAINTY 

!/2  pound  whole  figs  Dash  of  nutmeg 

1/2  cup  chopped  nuts  3  tablespoons  sugar 

Juice  of  l/z  lemon  l/2  cup  water 

Mix  the  ingredients;  cover  and  cook  until  tender.  Serve 
with  coffee  and  plain  bread  and  butter  sandwiches. 

SALTED  ALMONDS 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  l/2  pound  almonds 

Salt 

Heat  the  oil;  add  the  blanched  almonds  (which  must  be 
dry);  cook  to  a  delicate  brown,  shaking  the  dish  constantly  and 
stirring  to  prevent  burning.  Drain  the  almonds  on  paper,  sprin- 
kling them  with  fine  salt. 

CANDY 

Fudge,  pinoche,  pralines  and  many  other  kinds  of  candy  may 
be  made  in  the  chafing  dish.  See  chapter  on  "Candy." 


40C 


CASSEROLE  COOKERY 


Smother  the  flavors  and  let  them  simmer,  accumulating  compound 
interest  in  their  casserole  safeholds. 

—  v  uaint  Tales. 


408 


CASSEROLE  COOKERY 

French,  more  than  any  other  nation,  know  the  value  of 
"smothered  cooking,"  for  such  is  cooking  en  casserole.  This 
process  develops  the  flavor  of  the  many  foods  which  are  neces- 
sarily better  if  cooked  by  long,  slow  heat;  and  renders  cheaper 
foods  more  palatable  than  many  expensive  ones.  For  this  reason 
it  would  be  worth  the  while  of  the  American  housekeeper  to  study 
the  casserole  method.  Then,  if  she  is  thrifty,  she  will  serve 
instead  of  expensive  sirloin  steak,  rump  steak  en  casserole  at  much 
less  cost.  Instead  of  roasting  she  will  buy  stewing  meats  at  about 
half  the  price;  instead  of  an  untempting  hash  she  will  have  some 
dainty,  tasty  viand  (made  from  left-overs)  in  ramekins.  And 
her  family  will  in  no  wise  suffer  by  her  economy. 

Casserole  dishes,  either  of  earthenware  or  of  tempered  glass- 
ware, are  always  pleasing,  their  quaint  artistic  shapes  making 
even  a  very  common  article  of  food  look  interesting  and  attractive. 
All  casserole  and  ramekin  foods  are  served  in  the  dishes  in  which 
they  are  cooked;  so  there  is  no  loss  of  heat  in  transference.  The 
ramekins,  or  little  individual  fire-proof  baking  dishes,  should  rest 
upon  paper  or  linen  doilies. 

CHICKEN  EN   CASSEROLE 

1  chicken  1  carrot  cut  in  cubes 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  potatoes  cut  in  cubes 
2  cups  hot  water                                     3  small  onions  sliced 

6  mushrooms  Salt  and  pepper 

Flour  and  water 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  fricassee;  saute  in  butter  in  a 
frying  pan;  transfer  to  casserole;  add  hot  water  and  cook  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  one  hour  and  a  quarter.  Before  the 

409  L-L 


CASSEROLE  COOKERY 


Family  of  Four 


time  is  up  saute  the  vegetables  in  butter  until  brown;  remove 
to  the  casserole;  add  the  seasoning;  cover  and  return  to  the  oven 
for  another  half  hour.  To  retain  the  flavor  press  dough  upon  the 
dish  where  vessel  and  cover  meet;  remove  before  serving, 

BEEFSTEAK  EN  CASSEROLE 

1  pound  round  steak  1  bay  leaf 

2  carrots  cut  in  cubes  l/2  tablespoon  kitchen  bouquet 

2  turnips  cut  in  cubes  1%  cups  boiling  water 
l/2  dozen  tiny  onions  Salt  and  pepper 

Have  the  steak  one  or  one  and  a  half  inches  thick;  leave  it 
whole  or  cut  it  into  large  square  pieces;  sear  on  both  sides  in  a 
hot  frying  pan;  then  remove  to  the  casserole,  with  the  other 
ingredients.  Cover  and  cook  gently  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

The  sticking  piece,  shinbone  and  brisket  may  also  be  served 
en  casserole,  but  will  require  longer  cooking. 

LAMB   EN   CASSEROLE 

1  pound  lamb  (fresh  or  cooked)  2  tablespoons  chopped  onion 
Butter  1  tablespoon  drippings 

Salt  and  pepper  1  potato  cut  in  cubes 

2  carrots  cut  in  cubes  1  cup  brown  sauce 

1  tablesooon  currant  jelly 

Have  the  lamb  cut  in  a  slice  or  slices  one  or  one  and  a  half 
inches  thick;  sear  in  a  frying  pan;  put  in  the  casserole,  brushing 
first  with  butter  and  seasoning.  Cook  until  tender;  parboil 
the  carrots  and,  saute  them  in  the  drippings  with  the  onion;  add 
the  carrots,  the  potatoes  and  brown  sauce  to  the  meat;  cook  until 
the  potatoes  and  carrots  are  tender  and  serve  from  the  casserole. 

CASSEROLE  ROAST 

3  or  4  pounds  beef  %  onion 

Slice  of  salt  pork  A  few  peppercorns 

l/4  carrot  Stalk  of  celery  chopped 

l/4  turnip  2  cups  water  or  stock 

For  this  roast  select  beef  from  the  round  or  rump.  Render 
out  the  pork;  brown  the  meat  on  both  sides  in  the  fat.  Chop 
the  vegetables;  put  the  meat  in  the  casserole  with  the  vegetables 
around  it;  add  the  water  or  stock  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  for 
three  hours,  basting  occasionally.  When  done  make  a  brown 
sauce,  using  the  juice  left  in  the  casserole. 

410  I/-L 


CASSEROLE  COOKERY 


V4 

Bx 


CASSEROLE  HASH 

4  pound  macaroni  Grated  cheese 

utter  Cold  chopped  meat 

Brown  sauce  or  stock 


Boil  the  macaroni;  drain  and  put  it  in  a  buttered  casserole 
with  a  little  butter  and  grated  cheese.  Push  the  macaroni  to  the 
sides  of  the  dish;  fill  the  center  with  the  meat,  well  seasoned  and 
moistened  with  brown  sauce  or  meat  stock.  Place  in  the  oven 
until  hot  throughout  and  serve. 

BAKED   BEANS  EN   CASSEROLE 
See  recipe  in  chapter  on  "Meat  Substitutes." 

MACARONI  IN  RAMEKINS 

See  recipe  for  Baked  Macaroni  with  Cheese  in  chapter  on  "  Meat 
Substitutes";  but  bake  in  ramekins. 


RICE  IN  RAMEKINS 

See  recipe  for  Baked  Rice  in  chapter  on  "Meat  Substitutes"; 
but  bake  in  ramekins. 


BROWN  FRICASSEE   OF   OYSTERS 

2  tablespoons  butter  V2  cup  oyster  juice 

2l/2  tablespoons  flour  V4  cup  cream 

2  slices  onion  25  oysters 

Sprig  of  parsley  Salt 

Buttered  bread  crumbs 

Scald  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  and  drain.  Cook  the 
flour  in  the  butter;  add  the  onion  and  brown;  add  parsley  and 
oyster  juice;  cook  until  it  thickens  and  add  the  cream.  Add 
oysters  and  salt;  pour  into  ramekins;  cover  with  fine  crumbs 
and  brown  in  the  oven. 


SCALLOPED   OYSTERS  IN  RAMEKINS 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Scalloped  Oysters  given  in  the  chapter 
on  "Fish";  but  use  ramekins  for  baking. 

411  Ir-L 


CASSEROLE  COOKERY 


Family  of  Four 


HALIBUT  AU  GRATIN 

ll/4  cups  cooked  halibut  1>£  cups  cream  sauce 

3  hard  boiled  eggs  1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

4  tablespoons  butter 

Pick  the  halibut  into  small  pieces;  crush  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  chop  the  whites  into  small  pieces.  Stir  fish  and  eggs  into 
the  hot  cream^sauce.  Fill  ramekins  with  the  mixture;  cover  with 
crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

SALMON  AU  GRATIN 
Prepare  the  same  as  Halibut  au  Gratin. 

EGGS  IN  RAMEKINS 

Prepare  the  same  as  Halibut  au  Gratin. 

In  the  bottom  of  each  ramekin  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  and 
a  few  fine  bread  crumbs;  break  an  egg  into  each;  season  and 
bake  until  the  egg  is  set. 

CHICKEN  IN  RAMEKINS 

\y£  cups  cold  chicken  Few  gratings  of  nutmeg 

1  cup  cream  sauce  Buttered  bread  crumbs 

Mix  the  chicken  thoroughly  with  the  cream  sauce;  add  the 
nutmeg  and  empty  into  buttered  ramekins.  Cover  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. 

Cold  beef,  lamb  and  veal  may  be  served  in  the  same  manner. 

SHIN  MEAT  EN  CASSEROLE 

2  pounds  shinbone  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  carrots  1  cup  boiling  water 

l/2  cup  onion  V2  saltspoon  pepper 

1  cup  celery  2  tablespoons  flour 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  bone  in  two-inch  pieces;  remove  the 
marrow  from  bone.  Put  part  of  the  marrow  into  the  bottom  of 
the  casserole,  then  half  the  meat,  half  the  vegetables,  the  rest  of 
meat  and  seasoning  and  the  marrow  over  the  top;  place  in  hot 
oven  twenty  minutes,  covered.  Add  one  cup  boiling  water;  cover; 
reduce  the  heat  and  let  bake  slowly  two  and  a  half  hours,  or  until 
tender,  in  bottom  of  oven.  Once  or  twice  water  must  be  added. 
When  the  meat  is  tender,  add  the  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold 
water. 

412  U-L 


Family  of  Four 


CASSEROLE  COOKERY 


SWEETBREADS  EN  CASSEROLE 

2  pair  sweetbreads  v/z  cup  celery,  onion  and  carrot,  chopped 

12  lardoons  salt  pork  6  mushroom  caps 

4  tablespoons  butter  l/%  cup  thick  cream 

1  cup  veal  broth  Salt  and  paprika 

1  pint  cooked  peas 

Let  the  sweetbreads  stand  an  hour  or  longer  in  cold  water, 
changing  the  water  several  times  and  removing  unedible  por- 
tions; drain,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  sunmer  ten  min- 
utes; let  chill  in  cold  water;  then  draw  into  the  best  side  of 
each  lardoons  of  fat  salt  pork.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan 
and  in  this  brown  the  sweetbreads;  set  in  the  casserole;  add  veal 
broth  (highly  seasoned  with  half  a  cup  of  cut  celery,  onion  and 
carrot,  tied  in  a  muslin  for  removal)  to  half  cover  the  sweet- 
breads; cover  with  lid  and  let  simmer  in  the  oven  nearly  an  hour. 
Saute  mushroom  caps  in  butter  and  add  these  to  the  casserole; 
let  cook  fifteen  minutes,  when  the  broth  should  be  well  reduced; 
add  cream,  salt  and  paprika  to  season  and  hot  cooked  peas, 
letting  the  peas  settle  to  the  bottom  of  the  dish  and  drawing  the 
sweetbreads  and  mushrooms  above  them. 


VEAL  COLLOPS  EN  CASSEROLE 

2  pounds  veal  (from  leg)  2  sprigs  parsley 

2  bits  of  salt  pork  Water 

4  tablespoons  pork  fat  1  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  onion  1  tablespoon  butter 

4  cloves  3  tomatoes 

Salt  to  taste 

Have  the  veal  cut  in  slices  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  in 
thickness;  cut  these  in  pieces  for  serving,  and  into  each  draw 
a  bit  of  salt  pork.  Cook  hot  pork  fat  until  nicely  browned; 
remove  to  the  casserole  and  add  an  onion  into  which  four  cloves 
have  been  pressed,  parsley,  and  stock  or  boiling  water  nearly  to 
cover  the  veal.  Saute*  a  green  pepper,  chopped  fine,  in  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  add  this,  with  the  tomatoes  cut  in  pieces, 
also  salt  to  season;  cover  the  dish,  and  let  cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  If  desired  the  liquid  may  be 
thickened  with  flour  mixed  with  cold  water  to  a  thin  paste. 
Remove  the  onion  and  parsley  before  serving. 

413 


SIMPLE  MENUS  FOR  A  WEEK'S  MEALS 


BREAKFAST 

LUNCHEON,  OR  SUPPER 

DINNER 

Grape  Fruit 
Corn  Meal  with  Dates 
Ham  Omelet 
Buttered  Toast 
Coffee 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 
Lettuce  and  Potato  Salad 
Graham  Bread 
Cheese  Relish 
Cocoa 

Vegetable  Soup 
Mock  Rabbit 
Brown  Potatoes 
Cauliflower  au  Gratin 
Prune  Whip 
Coffee 

Stewed  Prunes 
Fried  Mush 
Shirred  Eggs 
Hot  Rolls 
Coffee 

Ham  Patties 
Hot  Rolls 
Currant  Jelly 
Milk 
Cookies 

Consomme 
Roast  Veal 
String  Beans 
Lettuce  Salad 
Canned  Fruit 
Sponge  Cake 

Fruit 
Oatmeal 
Bacon  and  Eggs 
Popovers 
Coffee 

Curry  of  Veal 
Stewed  Tomatoes 
Lettuce 
Cinnamon  Toast 
Tea 

Ambrosia 
Lamb  Chops  with  Peas 
Baked  Potatoes 
Ripe  Olives 
Rice  Pudding 
Coffee 

Sliced  Oranges 
Uncooked  Cereal 
Mackerel 
Corn  Bread 
Coffee 

Creamed  Frizzled  Beef 
Graham  Bread 
Bread  Pudding 
Cocoa 

Haricot  of  Mutton 
Mashed  Potatoes 
Stewed  Rhubarb 
Cottage  Pudding 
Coffee 

Wheat  Cereal  with  Raisins 
Beauregard  Eggs 
Hot  Rolls  „_ 
Coffee 

Salmon  Surprise 
Water  Cress  Salad 
Egg  Muffins 
Stewed  Fruit 

Clam  Chowder 
Baked  Macaroni  with  Cheese 
or  Fish 
Spinach 
Lettuce  Salad 
Fruit 
Sweet  Wafers 
Coffee 

Stewed  Rhubarb 
Cream  of  Wheat 
Soft-boiled  Eggs 
Griddle  Cakes 
Coffee 

Fish  or  Meat  Croquettes 
Creamed  Peas 
Tea  or  Coffee 

Cream  of  Spinach  Soup 
Boiled  Beef's  Tongue 
Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 
Fruit  Salad 
Bavarian  Cream 
Coffee 

Fruit 
Uncooked  Cereal 
Boston  Baked  Beans 
Brown  Bread 
Coffee 

Cold  Tongue 
Lemon  Butter 
Tea  Biscuit 
Cheese 
Cocoa  with  Whipped  Crearc 

Grape  Fruit  Cocktail 
Roast  Beef  with  Yorkshire  Pudding 
Creamed  Celery 
Brown  Potatoes 
Combination  Salad 
Frozen  Custard 
Chocolate  Wafers 
Coffee 

Before  attempting  to  make  menus,  a  study  of  Balanced  Rations  would  be  helpful.    Each  class  of  food 
should  be  represented  in  a  day's  meals.    Hearty  desserts  should  not  follow  meals  containing  rich  dishes. 


414 


I/-L 


BALANCED  RATIONS 


Dis  moi  ce  que  tu  manges,  je  te  dirai  ce  que  tu  es. 
(Tell  me  what  you  eat,  and  I  will  tell  you  what  you  are.) 

— BRILLAT  SAVARIN:    Physiology  of  Taste. 


410 


BALANCED  RATIONS 

THE  word  "rations"  may  be  defined  as  a  daily  food  allowance. 
If  meals  formed  from  such  rations  contain  the  food  nutrients 
—proteins,  fats,  carbohydrates,  and  mineral  matters — in  the 
proper  proportions,  they  are  balanced  meals,  and  the  rations  are 
balanced  rations.  Such  rations  and  such  meals  would  fully  supply 
the  body's  needs  for  energy,  growth,  and  repair. 

On  the  other  hand,  meals  containing  only  one  class  of  food 
nutrients  would  not  be  balanced.  For  instance,  a  diet  of  starch 
foods,  as  bread,  cereals  and  potatoes,  or  a  diet  of  protein  foods,  as 
meat,  beans  and  cheese,  would  quickly  impair  health  and  efficiency, 
unless  balanced  by  the  addition  of  foods  from  other  classes.  Evi- 
dently, then,  the  housewife  should  know  the  different  kinds  of 
foods  depended  on  by  the  body  for  its  various  needs,  and  how 
those  needs  can  be  met  with  the  food  materials  at  her  command. 
With  such  knowledge,  she  can  plan  daily  menus  intelligently  and 
maintain  her  family  in  health. 

In  a  previous  chapter  the  human  body  was  compared  to  an 
engine,  because,  like  the  engine,  it  burns  fuel  which  yields  heat 
and  energy,  from  which  in  turn  it  derives  its  ability  to  perform 
work.  Here  the  comparison  ends,  because  the  body  uses  food 
not  only  to  develop  energy,  but  also  to  build  and  repair  its  own 
structure. 

For  this  twofold  purpose,  nature  has  provided  an  abundant 
variety  of  food  materials.  All  these  foods,  when  burned  in  the 
body,  yield  heat  and  energy,  and  nearly  all  build  up  muscular 
tissue  which  is  used  in  body-building.  The  foods  which  are  highest 
in  body-building  and  repair  value,  as  meats,  eggs,  or  meat  sub- 
stitutes, are  grouped  as  protein  foods,  and  the  foods  which  are 
highest  in  fuel  value,  as  fat,  starch,  and  sugar  foods,  are  called 

417  L-L 


BALANCED  RATIONS 


carbohydrates.     Still  another  class  of  foods,  chiefly  vegetables  and 
fruits,  provide  bulk  and  mineral  matters. 

Calories. — The  manner  in  which  scientists  measure  the  fuel 
value — that  is,  the  amount  of  heat  and  energy  given  off  by  a  certain 
food  when  burned  in  the  body — is  interesting.  Heat  can  be  meas- 
ured only  by  a  change  of  temperature,  not  by  weight  or  length. 
The  heat  measure  cannot  be  a  pound  or  a  yard;  it  must  be  a  definite 
quantity  of  heat.  If  a  pint  of  water  (or  a  pound,  which  is  the  same 
thing)  is  raised  four  degrees  in  temperature,  say  from  40  degrees  to 
44  degrees,  or  70  degrees  to  74  degrees,  a  certain  amount  of  heat  is 
required.  This  amount  of  heat  is  called  a  calorie;  therefore  a 
calorie  is  simply  the  amount  of  heat  or  energy  given  off  by  the 
body  in  burning  up  a  certain  amount  of  food. 

If  one  ounce  of  protein,  the  fibrin  of  lean  meat,  for  example,  is 
burned  in  the  body,  it  will  yield  a  little  more  than  113  calories  of 
heat.  That  is,  one  ounce  of  protein  will  give  off  a  little  more  than 
113  times  the  amount  of  heat  required  to  raise  the  temperature  of 
a  pint  of  water  four  degrees.  A  pound  of  protein  would  equal 
1820  calories  of  energy. 

If  one  ounce  of  pure  sugar  is  burned  in  the  body,  it  will  yield  a 
little  more  than  113  calories.  One  pound  of  sugar  will  supply 
1820  calories. 

If  one  ounce  of  fat  is  burned  in  the  body,  the  result  will  be  about 
255  calories;  and  one  pound  of  fat  will  yield  4040  calories. 

It  will  be  noted  at  a  glance  that  the  heat  value  of  fat  is  more 
than  double  the  heat  value  of  lean  meat  or  sugar,  a  fact  that  is 
proved  by  daily  experience. 

Scientists  have  shown  that  a  man  who  does  average  muscular 
work,  a  carpenter  for  instance,  requires  food  sufficient,  when 
burned  in  his  body,  to  yield  about  3400  calories  of  energy  daily  to 
enable  him  to  do  his  work.  Now,  seven-eighths  of  a  pound  of  fat, 
or  two  pounds  of  sugar,  or  two  pounds  of  lean  meat  would  provide 
approximately  the  number  of  calories  required;  but  it  is  very 
evident  that  either  the  fat  or  the  sugar  would  be  a  very  poor  ration, 
for  the  reason  that  both  foods  are  practically  pure  fuel,  and  would 

418  il-L 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


leave  nothing  for  bulk  or  repair.  Work,  and  even  life  itself,  on 
such  a  ration  for  any  length  of  time  would  be  almost  impossible. 
The  lean  meat  ration  would  be  little  better.  If,  on  the  other  hand, 
this  same  amount  of  energy  were  derived  from  a  variety  of  food 
materials  which  provide  for  restoring  broken  down  tissues  as  well 
as  for  energy,  the  day's  work  could  be  performed  with  ease  and 
efficiency. 

Fortunately,  nature  does  not  require  a  scientific  knowledge  of 
calories  for  normal  good  health;  neither  does  she  require  that  each 
person  consume  an  exact  number  in  the  day's  ration,  and  no  more. 
She  is  far  kinder  and  more  liberal  than  that.  She  has  provided  us 
with  an  abundance  of  foods  for  body-building,  for  fuel  and  energy, 
for  bulk,  and  for  necessary  mineral  matters.  These  foods  have 
been  carefully  studied  by  scientists  and  grouped  as  to  their  various 
uses  and  properties. 

What  the  intelligent  cook  chiefly  needs  is  a  familiarity  with  these 
food  groups,  and  a  knowledge  of  what  the  particular  foods  of  each 
group  may  be  depended  upon  to  do  in  the  body.  She  can  then 
plan  the  family  meals  so  that  they  will  contain  the  proper  amount 
of  material  from  each  group  necessary  for  good  health  and  effi- 
ciency. The  human  body  is  so  adaptable  that  it  is  not  necessary 
that  each  meal  should  be  balanced  with  scientific  accuracy,  even  if 
that  were  possible.  If  on  the  whole,  from  day  to  day  and  week  to 
week,  the  various  elements  are  provided  for  and  eaten,  the  meals 
will  be  sufficiently  balanced, 

FOOD  GROUPS  AND  THEIR  USES 

GROUP  1. — Foods  depended  on  for  protein;  that  is,  foods  in  which 
the  principal  parts  of  the  nutrient  is  in  form  of  protein:  milk, 
skim  milk,  cheese,  eggs,  meat,  poultry,  fish,  dried  peas,  beans, 
lentils,  and  some  of  the  nuts.  Especially  useful  for  repair 
and  body -building  material. 

GROUP  2. — Foods  depended  on  for  fat;  that  is,  foods  in  which  the 
principal  part  of  the  nutrient  is  in  the  form  of  fat:  butter, 
cream,  lard,  suet,  and  other  cooking  fats,  salt  pork,  bacon, 
table  and  salad  oils.  All  have  a  very  high  fuel  value. 

419  L-L 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


GROUP  3. — Foods  depended  on  for  starch;  that  is,  carbohydrate 
foods  in  which  the  principal  part  of  the  nutrient  is  in  the  form 
of  starch:  the  cereals — wheat,  corn,  oats,  rice,  rye,  barley — 
and  their  products,  breakfast  foods,  bread,  crackers,  maca- 
roni, cakes,  cookies,  puddings;  also  potatoes  and  other  starchy 
vegetables.  Used  as  fuel,  and  in  excess,  stored  in  the  body 
as  fat. 

GROUP  4. — Foods  depended  on  for  sugar;  that  is,  carbohydrate 
foods  in  which  the  principal  nutrient  is  sugar:  sugar,  molasses, 
syrups,  honey,  candies,  fruits,  sweet  cakes,  and  desserts.  A 
form  of  fuel  which  is  quickly  utilized  in  the  body. 

GROUP  5. — Foods  depended  on  for  mineral  matters;  that  is,  foods 
not  rich  in  nutrients  but  which  supply  iron,  vitamins,  vege- 
table acids,  cellulose,  and  other  body-regulating  substances: 
fruits  and  vegetables,  apples,  pears,  oranges,  lemons,  bananas, 
berries,  melons,  salads,  lettuce,  spinach,  potatoes  and  root 
vegetables,  green  peas  and  beans,  tomatoes,  squash,  etc, 

Vitamins. — In  addition  to  a  familiarity  with  the  various  food 
groups,  the  good  cook  should  know  something  about  vitamins. 
By  vitamins  is  understood  certain  life-giving  substances  whose 
presence  in  the  body  is  essential  to  normal  growth  and  health.  If 
omitted  from  the  diet  for  any  great  length  of  time,  the  so-called 
" deficiency  diseases"  arising  from  malnutrition  are  likely  to 
develop. 

Vitamins  are  present  in  some  foods,  but  absent  in  others.  It  is 
therefore  of  the  utmost  importance  to  know  which  foods  contain 
these  life-giving  elements,  so  that  they  may  be  included  in  the 
daily  diet.  Some  of  them  are  soluble  in  fat,  others  are  soluble 
in  water. 

Whole  milk  and  butter  are  especially  rich  in  the  fat-soluble  vita- 
min, recognized  by  scientists  as  vitamin  A.  For  this  reason  milk 
and  butter  are  absolutely  essential  to  the  growth  and  health  of 
children.  Skimping  on  milk  and  milk  products  is  certain  to  retard 
the  child's  development  and  expose  it  to  the  many  evils  which 
follow  malnutrition.  Codliver  oil  is  another  source,  being  more 
than  two  hundred  times  as  rich  in  the  valuable  vitamin  A  as  butter. 
This  vitamin  is  also  present  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  in  animal  fats,  in 

420  Ir-L 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


green-leaf  vegetables,  such  as  young  cabbage,  and  in  most  yellow 
vegetables,  such  as  carrots. 

The  water-soluble  vitamin,  known  to  scientists  as  vitamin  B,  is 
present  in  most  foods,  especially  in  fruits,  vegetables  and  whole 
grain  cereal  products.  It  is  absent  in  foods  which  have  been 
"purified,"  such  as  white  flour,  cornstarch,  polished  rice,  refined 
sugar,  and  most  table  oils,  all  of  which  in  their  natural  state  con- 
tain vitamins.  Vitamin  B  supplies  the  nervous  reserve  so  neces- 
sary to  combat  neuritis. 

Another  water-soluble  vitamin  is  recognized  by  scientists  as 
vitamin  C.  This  is  found  abundantly  in  all  citrus-fruit  juices,  in 
lemons,  oranges,  grape-fruit,  and  in  green  vegetables.  Tomatoes 
and  white  potatoes  are  a  valuable  source  of  vitamin  C.  Vitamin 
C  is  the  accepted  preventive  and  cure  for  scurvy. 

Since  an  abundant  supply  of  vitamins  exists  in  all  fresh  vege- 
table foods,  in  milk  and  in  meat  from  animals  fed  on  fresh  foods, 
the  normal  adult  living  on  a  well-balanced  diet  is  certain  to  obtain 
a  plentiful  supply.  But  the  diet  of  growing  children  must  be 
watched  carefully  to  see  that  they  get  a  proper  proportion.  For- 
tunately, vitamins  A,  B,  and  C  are  all  found  in  whole  milk.  Chil- 
dren suffering  from  rickets  and  other  diseases  of  under-nourish- 
ment  have  frequently  been  cured  by  a  liberal  diet  of  foods  that  con- 
tain vitamin  A. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  all  the  vitamins  are  easily  de- 
stroyed by  excessive  cooking  or  sterilization.  Fresh  foods,  and 
those  that  have  been  properly  cooked,  contain  the  helpful  element 
in  greatest  measure.  While  canned  foods  and  other  dried  vege- 
tables and  fruits  may  be  necessary  for  economy  and  convenience, 
or  to  give  bulk  to  the  diet,  they  should  never  be  used  to  the  exclu- 
sion of  green-leaf  vegetables  and  fruits. 

The  Graphic  Charts  on  the  following  pages  show  the  composition  of — 
Milk  Eggs 

Cheese  Oatmeal 

Potatoes  Butter 

White  Bread  Beef 

28  421  L-L 


Carbo  hydrate 
2  Paris 


Ash 
4  Paris 


Water 
34  Paris 


Water 
87Rirts 


Fat 
XoPart 

Ash 

I  Part 

Starch 
18  Paris 

Protein 
22/oPari« 


Carbohydrate 
53  Parts  — 


CHART  SHOWING  THE  COMPOSITION  OP  FOODS 
422 


Water 
50Pari 


Protein    1  Part 1 


Water 
6O  Parts 


Fat 

13  Parts 


Refuse    7  Parts  — /  \^$jjb 

CHART  SHOWING  THE  COMPOSITION  OF  FOODS 
423 


FIRELESS    COOKERY 


powder  has  been  sifted;  then  the  nut-meats  and,  last,  the  well- 
whipped  whites.  Bake  in  layers  or  in  round  cake  dish.  Remove 
and  ice  with  caramel  icing  and  nut-meats.  Bake  with  two  radi- 
ators. 

DRIED   FRUITS 

Dried  fruits  are  especially  satisfactory  when  prepared  in  the 
fireless  cooker;  for  they  can  be  cooked  the  long  time  that  is  neces- 
sary to  their  perfection,  without  danger  of  being  broken  or  re- 
duced to  a  mush. 

APPLES 

Wash  the  apples  in  cold  water,  soak  over  night  and  cook  in  the 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked.  Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes, 
adding  sugar,  lemon  and  spices  to  taste.  Place  in  cooker  for  six 
hours. 

APRICOTS 

Wash  the  fruit  carefully  and  allow  it  to  soak  in  cold  water  over 
night.  Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes  in  same  water;  add  sugar  to 
taste  and  place  in  cooker  for  four  hours. 


BLACK  FIGS 

Wash  figs  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  Boil  slowly  for 
five  minutes  in  same  water  in  which  they  were  soaked;  add  sugar 
to  taste;  cook  until  sugar  is  dissolved;  place  in  cooker  for  three 
or  four  hours.  Serve  cold  with  cream. 


FIGS 

Cut  stems  from  figs ;  cover  with  cold  water;  add  a  slice  of  lemon 
and  simmer  for  five  minutes.  Add  sugar  to  taste  and  cook  five 
minutes  longer.  Place  in  cooker  for  three  hours. 


DRIED  PEACHES 

Wash  peaches  in  cold  water;  drain  and  cover  with  fresh  water; 
allow  to  soak  over  night.  Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes  in  water  in 
which  they  were  soaked;  add  sugar  to  taste  and  place  in  cooker 
for  four  hours. 

390  L-I. 


FIRELESS   COOKERY 


DRIED  PEARS 

Cook  pears  the  same  as  peaches.  A  few  whole  cloves,  a  small 
piece  of  cinnamon  and  a  slice  of  lemon  added  while  pears  are  boil- 
ing will  improve  their  flavor. 

PRUNES 

Wash  the  prunes  in  cold  water;  cover  with  fresh  water  and 
allow  to  soak  over  night.  Simmer  for  five  minutes  in  the  same 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked;  add  sugar  to  taste  and  when 
sugar  is  dissolved  and  tho  prunes  boiling  hot,  place  in  the  cooker 
for  four  hours. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pinch  of  salt 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  Nutmeg  if  desired 

5  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  Whites  of  4  eggs 

I  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  stir  well;  add 
the  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  nutmeg;  fold  in  the  whipped  whites 
of  eggs;  add  the  baking  powder  and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish. 
Boil  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  on  the  stove  for  fifteen  minutes; 
then  place  in  the  cooker  for  one  hour.  Use  two  radiators. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

l/4  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  egg  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Take  the  sugar,  butter  and  egg  and  beat  well  together;  add  the 
inilk  and  the  baking  powder  well  sifted  in  the  flour.  Bake  in 
shallow  pan  between  two  moderately  hot  radiators  for  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  with  sauce. 

FIG  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 

J/2  cup  butter  2l/3  cups  flour 

l/2  cup  water  1/2  cup  figs  chopped  fine 

Whites  of  4  eggs 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar  gradually;  sift  the  baking 
powder  with  the  flour,  and  add  milk  and  flour  alternately;  add 

391  V-L 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


100-Calorie 
Portions 

40  X  1  pound  oil,  shortening  fat,  suet =  40 

34  X  2  pounds  butter =  68 

28  X  1  pound  bacon  =  28 

10  X  2  pounds  cream  »tod  nuts  in  shell =  20 

156 
This  would  equal  15,600  calories,  which  is  sufficiently  accurate. 

No.  3.  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture  chart  showing  bread  and  other  cereal 
foods  which  supply  together  about  240  one-hundred-calorie  portions,  or  24,000 
calories.  Any  other  combination  of  cereal  foods  equivalent  to  15  pounds  of  dry 
cereals  would  furnish  about  the  same  amount  of  body  fuel.  This  proportion  may 
be  raised  or  lowered  by  half.  See  note,  page  431. 

The  separate  items  are:  Flour  (20  cups),  5  pounds;  rolled  oats  (2^  to  3  cups), 
l/2  pound;  cornmeal  (1%  cups),  ^  pound;  rice  (1  cup),  }/%  pound;  macaroni, 
l/2  pound;  ready-to-eat  breakfast  cereal  (5  to  6  cups),  ^2  pound;  total  dry  cereal 
foods,  II/L  pounds.  Bread  and  rolls,  10  pounds. 

How  TO  ESTIMATE  THE  FOOD  VALUE  OF  CEREAL  FOODS 

Dry  cereals  average  about  16  one-hundred-calorie  portions  per  pound.  Bread 
and  rolls  average  about  12  one-hundred-calorie  portions  per  pound.  At  a  rough 
estimate,  three-fourths  of  the  weight  of  bread  and  rolls  is  flour.  Three-fourths 
of  the  ten  pounds  above  is  7^  pounds,  which,  added  to  the  7^  pounds  of  cereals, 
equals  15  pounds  of  dry  cereals  food.  15  X  16  equals  240  one-hundred-ealorie 
portions,  or  24,000  calories,  which  is  the  required  amount.  Or, 

100-Calorte 
Portions 

16  X  11A  pounds  of  dry  cereals =   120 

12  X  10  pounds  of  bread  and  rolls =   120 


which  afford  the  same  number  of  calories. 

No.  4.  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture  chart  showing  sugar  and  other  sweet 
foods,  which  together  supply  about  80  one-hundred-calorie  portions,  or  8000 
calories.  Any  other  combination  of  such  foods  which  furnishes  about  43^  pounds 
of  sugar  would  supply  about  the  same  amount  of  body  fuel. 

The  separate  items  are:  Granulated  sugar  (4  cups),  2  pounds;  loaf  sugar, 
V±  pound;  candy,  ^  pound;  honey  (about  %  cup),  J^  pound;  syrup  (about 
%  cup),  ^  pound;  molasses  (about  %  cup),  ^  pound;  jelly,  ^  pound;  total 
5  pounds- 

428  L-L 


SUPPLY  OF  CEREAL  FOODS 
FOR  AN  AVERAGE 


-ORNli 


1  FLOUR 


ioTlO  )bs.  and  dry  cereals,  7 'Albs) provides  about 240 hundred- 
calorie  portions  or  3/lO  the    needed  fuel.  This  proportion  may  be  raised,  or 
lowered   by  half.  Use  whole  grain  products  if   vegetables  and  fruits  are  scarce. 


GROUP  NO.  3.    A  WEEK'S  SUPPLY  OF  CEREAL  FOODS 


^\WEKS  SUPPLY  OF  SUGAR  AND  OTHER  SWEETS 
iiblTsr'  FOR  AN  AVERAGE  FAMILY  ^J^El^t,^ 


The  totalfeugar  and  candySlbs.i  honey,  sirup,  molasses    and  jelly, each  V*  lb) 


equals  about  4  J4  Ibs.  of  sugar  aind  provides  atout  80  kindred-calorie  port 


or  MO  the  needed  fuel.  Sweets  may  be  omitted  or  their  proportion  raised  by  half. 

GROUP  NO  4.    A  WEEK'S  SUPPLY  OF  SUGAR  AND  OTHER  SWEETS 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


How  TO  ESTIMATE  THE  FUEL  VALUE  OF  SUGAR  AND  OTHER  SWEETS 
Sugar  and  candy  average  about  18  one-hundred-calorie  portions  per  pound. 
Thick  sirups  (honey,  sirup,  molasses)  average  about  133^  one-hundred-calorie 
portions  per  pound.  Jelly,  jams,  marmalades,  and  rich  preserves  average  about 
9  one-hundred-calorie  portions  per  pound.  At  a  rough  estimate  the  above  items 
would  equal  about  4>£  pounds  of  sugar.  18  X  4|  would  equal  81  one  hundred 
calorie  portions;  or 

100-Calorie 
Portions 

18  X  3  pounds  sugar  and  candy =   54 

13J/2  X  l^i  pounds  of  honey,  sirup,  and  molasses 

»  X  K  pounds  jelly 


78% 

This  would  equal  7875  calories,  which  is  slightly  below  the  required  amount,  but 
sufficiently  accurate. 

No.  5.  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture  chart  showing  vegetables  and  fruits 
fresh,  canned,  and  dried,  which  together  supply  about  160  one-hundred-caloric 
portions,  or  16,000  calories.  Any  other  combination  of  ordinary  vegetables  and 
fruits  equivalent  to  70  pounds  of  fresh  material  would  supply  about  the  same 
amount  of  body  fuel.  If  more  bulk  is  needed  in  the  diet,  it  is  better  to  supply  it 
from  vegetables  and  fruits  than  from  the  richer  foods. 

The  separate  items  are: 

Fresh  Vegetables  and  Fruits:  White  potatoes  (%  peck),  7  pounds;  sweet 
potatoes  (^2  peck),  7  pounds;  asparagus,  2  pounds;  beets,  with  greens,  2  pounds; 
carrots,  2  pounds;  cabbage,  2  pounds;  squash,  2  pounds;  turnips,  2  pounds; 
celery,  t  pound;  lettuce,  1  pound;  onions,  2  pounds;  tomatoes  (4  medium-sized), 

1  pound;   rhubarb,  1  pound;   bananas  (1  dozen),  3  pounds;   oranges  (3^  dozen), 
3  pounds;  apples  (8  medium-sized),  3  pounds;  pineapple  (one),  2  pounds;  straw- 
berries (1  quart),  1  pound;    total,  44  pounds. 

Canned  Vegetables  and  Fruits:  Peas  (1  quart),  2  pounds;  string  beans  (1  quart), 

2  pounds;    cherries  (1  quart),  2  pounds;    peaches  (1  quart),  2  pounds;    total,  8 
pounds. 

Dried  Vegetables  and  Fruits:   Lima  beans,  2  pounds;   raisins,  1  pound;    total, 

3  pounds. 

How  TO  ESTIMATE  THE  FUEL  VALUE  OF  VEGETABLES  AND  FRUITS 

Fresh  and  canned  vegetables  and  fruits  as  used  in  most  households  average  about 

225  calories,  or  2)^  one-hundred-calorie  portions,  per  pound;  canned  foods  such  as 

peas,  string  beans,  cherries,  and  peaches,  having  about  the  same  fuel  value  as  if 

they  were  fresh  weight.     Dried  vegetables  and  fruits  have  about  six  times  the  fuel 

429 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


value  of  these  foods  fresh  weight,  or  about  1350  calories — 13^  one-hundred-calorie 
portions — per  pound.  Counting  the  3  pounds  dried  vegetables  and  fruits  as  18 
pounds  fresh  weight,  the  above  items  would  total  70  pounds  fresh  weight. 
Therefore,  2|  X  70  pounds  fresh  weight  would  equal  157£  one-hundred-calorie 
portions;  or 

100-Calorie 
Portions 

2M  X  52  pounds  fresh  and  canned  weight =  117 

X  3  pounds  dried  weight = 


This  would  equal  15,750  calories,  or  a  little  less  than  the  required  estimate. 

The  larger  the  proportion  of  fresh  vegetables  and  fruits  to  those  canned  and 
dried  thejbetter. 

From  the  foregoing  it  is  clear  that  if  the  weekly  food  supply 
is  satisfactory,  the  exact  make-up  of  each  meal  is  not  important. 
It  is  well  to  do  a  certain  amount  of  balancing  from  day  to  day, 
although  the  habit  of  providing  all  the  required  kinds  of  foods 
regularly  will  save  unnecessary  time  and  thought  in  this  direction. 
If  the  housekeeper  will  keep  a  record  of  the  foods  used  during  the 
week,  she  will  have  little  difficulty  in  securing  a  satisfactory  result. 
An  account  book,  or  a  set  of  cards,  should  be  kept  for  this  purpose, 
showing  the  date,  the  kinds  of  food,  with  weight,  measure,  and 
cost,  listed  under  their  proper  headings:  Milk,  Meat,  Eggs,  and 
Similar  Protein  Foods;  Fat  Foods;  Cereal  Foods;  Sugar  and 
Sweets;  Vegetables  and  Fruits.  With  these  facts  in  hand,  the 
fuel  value  can  be  roughly  estimated  by  weight,  or  in  calories,  by 
means  of  the  table  on  the  following  page.  For  the  fuel  value  of 
any  particular  food  per  pound,  see  the  tables  on  pages  433,  434, 


RULES  FOR  BALANCING  DIET  OF  YOUR  OWN  FAMILY 

1.  Determine   from   Table   of   Energy   Needs,   page   425,   the 
approximate  number  of  hundred-calorie  portions  needed  by  your 
family  per  week. 

2.  Keep  account  of  foods  purchased  each  week  under  the  proper 
heads. 

3.  Estimate  the  fuel  value  of  each  group. 

4.  Provide  20  per  cent,  or  about  %  of  the  total  fuel  required, 
from  milk,  meat,  and  similar  foods;  20  per  cent,  or  about  ^o>  from 

430  L-L 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


fat  foods;  30  per  cent,  or  about  T3^,  from  cereal  foods;  10  per 
cent,  or  about  TV,  from  sugar  foods;  20  per  cent,  or  about  ^,  from 
fruits  and  vegetables.  If  you  do  this  from  week  to  week,  your 
family  rations  will  be  sufficiently  balanced.  In  a  short  time  the 
habit  of  providing  in  the  right  proportions  will  become  established. 

Table  for  Estimating  Average  Fuel  Values 

100-Calorie  Portions 

Whole  m  ilk.  ..                                                                       ........  6  per  quart 

Skim  milk   ....................................  8  "        " 

Flesh  foods,  eggs,  etc  ......................................  8  per  pound 

Fats  ..........................................  ..........  40  " 

Butter    .................................................  34  ««         « 

Bacon,  salt  pork,  chocolate,  etc  .............................  28  "         " 

Dry  cereals,  flour,  pies,  cakes,  crackers  .......................  16  **         " 

Bread    ...............  .  .  .  ,  ...............................  12  "        «« 

Sugar  and  candy  ..........................................  18  "         " 

Syrups,  molasses,  honey  ................................... 

Jellies,  jams,  marmalades,  preserves    .  .......................  9 

Fresh  vegetables  and  fruits  .................................  2 

Dried  vegetables  and  fruits  ................................ 


NOTE.  —  The  menu  on  the  following  page  was  prepared  from  the 
week's  food  supply  shown  on  group  charts  1  to  5,  as  follows: 

100-Calorie  Total 

Portions  Calories 

14  quarts  milk,   .........................  which  provide  \ 

10^  pounds  flesh  foods,  eggs,  cheese,  ......  "  '     ««       /  1(  ^0  per  cent 

4  pounds  of  fats,    .............  ,  .........  "  "           160  =  20        " 

15  pounds  dry  cereals,  ...................  "  240  =  30        " 

4^  pounds  sugar  and  other  sweets,    .......  "  80  =  10        '* 

70  pounds  fresh  vegetables  and  fruits,  ...  "  "           160  =  20        " 


Total 800     =100 

These  amounts  of  food  may  be  depended  on  to  furnish  an  attractive  diet  for  an 
average  family  for  a  week.  When  economy  is  necessary,  it  is  often  possible  to 
effect  considerable  saving  without  loss  of  fuel  value.  By  means  of  the  tables  on 
pages  433,  434,  and  from  the  market  price  of  foods,  the  cost  of  the  fuel  value  of 
different  foods  can  be  compared,  and  the  less  expensive  selected.  It  is  also  possible, 
to  a  certain  extent,  to  raise  or  lower  the  proportions  of  the  different  groups  with 
safety.  For  example,  cereal  foods  will  often  provide  fuel  at  less  cost  than  the 
protein  and  fat  foods;  but  an  extra  allowance  of  cereal  foods  should  never  be  at 
the  expense  of  milk  or  green-leaf  vegetables. 

431  L-L 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


*A  WEEK'S  MENU  FOR  THE  AVERAGE  FAMILY 

(Two  Adults  and  Three  Children) 


BREAKFAST. 

DINNER. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER. 

SUNDAY 

Oranges;       breakfast      cereal 
with  milk;    bread  or  toast  with 
butter. 

Chicken  stuffed  and  roasted 
or  fricasseed  and  served  on  toast 
or  with  rice;  sweet  potatoes; 
asparagus;  jelly;  bread;  pine- 
apple ice  cream. 

Peanut  sandwiches  with  let- 
luce  salad;  or  bread,  milk,  and 
butter  for  children;  candy. 

MONDAY 


Sliced  pineapple  and  bananas; 
breakfast  cereal  with  milk;  bread 
or  toast  with  butter. 

Macaroni     and     cheese     with 
warmed-over     chicken;       boiled 
cabbage;   bread;   apple  pudding, 
baked  or  steamed. 

Lima  bean  chowder;    cracker* 
or    bread    and    butter;     celery; 
boiled  rice  with  honey. 

TUESDAY 


Canned    peaches;      breakfast 
Cereal  with  inilk;  bread  or  toast 
with  butter. 

Beef  stew  with  turnips,  carrots, 
onions,  and  dumplings;    bread; 
orange  custard  with  nut  cookies 
or  sliced  oranges  with  nut  cake. 

Bacon;     boiled   potatoes   and 
milk    gravy    made    with    bacon 
fat;    cole-slaw;    bread  and  but- 
ter; candy. 

WEDNESDAY 


Canned    cherries;     breakfast 
cereal  with  milk;   bread  or  toast 
with  butter. 

Bacon  and  fried  eggs;    pota- 
toes;  squash;    bread;   peach  pie. 

Creamed    smoked    fish    with 
baked  potatoes;    bread  and  but- 
ter;   sliced  oranges  with  cocoa- 
nut. 

THURSDAY 


Bananas;      breakfast     cereal 
with  milk;    bread  or  toast  with 
butter. 

Meat  cakes  with  tomato  sauce; 
lima  beans;     bread;     baked   ba- 
nanas. 

Cheese  sandwiches  or  scallop- 
ed   cheese    and    rice;      lettuce; 
bread  and  butter;    wheat  cakes 
with  sirup. 

FRIDAY 


Stewed   raisins   and   rhubarb; 
breakfast     cereal     with     milk; 
bread  or  toast  with  butter. 

Fish,  stuffed  or  baked;    sweet 
potatoes;      beets     with     greens; 
bread;  suet  pudding  with  raisins. 

Cream  of  pea  soup;   scalloped 
sweet   potatoes;     bread    or   bis- 
cuits and  butter;    canned  cher- 
ries. 

SATURDAY 


Baked  apples;    breakfast  ce- 
real with  milk;    bread  or  toast 
with  butter. 

Scrambled  eggs   with  smoked 
fish;  string  beans;  celery;  bread 
and    butter;     strawberry    short- 
cake. 

Creamed     fish     on 
boiled  rice;     bread  a 
raisin  tarts. 

toast    or 
nd   butter; 

NOTE. — Coffee  and  tea  are  not  listed,  as  they  contain  little  nutritive  value. 
*  Prepared  by  the  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture. 

432  L-L 


A  WEEKS  SUPPLY  OF\|GETABIIES  AND  FRUITS 


Contributor,  from  T~~~* 

Off.ce"  of  Horn*  Econgrt.cs'  ,      f^n         »  x  T 
CFLangwonhv.  CM  FOR     AN 


The  total  (SSL  Ibs.  fresh  and  c«nneflL  with  3  ifas.  dried,  or  7O  ibs.  fresh  weight) 
provides  about  160  hunclred—ealorie  portions  or  Vs  the  needed  fuel. 
This  proportion  may  be  raised  or  lowered  by  half.  Always  use  some  leaf  vegetables. 


GROUP  NO.  5.    A  WEEK'S  SUPPLY  OF  VEGETABLES  AND  FRUITS 


Contrikvt.on  from 


COUNTING  THE  COST 

Offff  of  Horn*  Economic*.  f\  "C1 

CFU^orthy.    Chef.         A^^T  T^,  ~  ope, 

A  WEEKS   TOOD  SUPPLY 

NUMBER  OF  IOC-CALORIE   PORTIONS  IN  FOODS  AS  PURCHASED 


Carol.ne       .unt. 
Specialist  ,nrcoiTWparh,,n.MUSe. 


&perlb. 


4  per  qt. 


4  per  Ib. 

spaTagus.cftbbage.caul'-       otatofj^     ^tf*' 
awer,  lemons i  spinach,  Oper   liD. 

fuash.toraatoes,  turnips.    Cheese,  cottage,  liver 

l72per   ID.  Shrimps,      tongue, 

ieans.  .string,    beetSi  6per   Ib. 

veal,   average. 

6  per  qt. 

whole . 

7  per  Ib. 


15  per  Ib. 


9  per  doz. 

9  per  pt. 

Cream. 

10  per  Ib. 

Beef,  averaget  latnb.av 

10  per  doz. 

Orangfes  .(Soz.Size.) 

11  per  Ib.          0 

Prunes,  TnacKerel.  salt, 

bread.  iy  per   it). 

11  per  doz.        Che£s<?- 

Bananas.    (5oz.size.>  XXper  Ib. 

13  per  Ib.          Coc°f ;. 

26  per  Ib. 


per 

CaT 

per 


sugar. 


p,  heavy 


?rices  change  and  tastes   differ-  but  the  above  values   remain  the 
same.     By  means    of  them  the  cost  per  100-calorie     portion. 
of  any  food,  any  group  of  foods,  or  any  food    supply,  ca-nte 
estimated    at  any   time  . 


Butter,  other  table  fats. 

40  per  Ib. 


CHART  NO.  6.    FOR  ESTIMATING  THE  COMPARATIVE  VALUE  OF 

FOODS 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


•APPROXIMATE  NUMBER  OF  100  CALORIE  PORTIONS  IN  COMMON 

FOOD  MATERIALS 
GROUP  I     FOOE   DEPENDED  UPON  FOR  EFFICIENT  PROTEIN 


Materials. 

Number  of 
100-Calorie  Portions. 

Materials. 

Number  of 
100-Calorie  Portions. 

Diiry  products: 
Milk,  whole  
Milk,  skim  
Buttermilk  
Milk,  condensed, 
unsweetened  
Milk,  condensed, 
sweelened  
Milk,  dried,  whole.  .. 
Milk,  dried,  skim.  .  .  . 
Cheese,  ordinary  
Cheese,  eottage  
Kggs  
Meats  
Beef,  average  
Beef,  chuck.  
Beef,  corned  
Beef  liver  
Beef  ribs  

3  per  pound  or  6  per  qt. 
3  per  quart. 
3  per  quart. 

8  per  pound  or  per  qt. 

15  per  pound. 
23  per  pound. 
16  per  pound. 
19J-2  per  pound. 
5  per  pound. 
9  per  dozen. 
9  per  pound. 
10  per  pound. 
7^2  per  pound. 
V&Yl  per  pound. 
51A  per  pound. 
11  per  pound. 
7*4  per  pound. 
9^2  per  pound. 
51A  per  pound. 
10  per  pound. 
11  per  pound. 
13  per  pound. 
12  per  pound. 
22  per  pound. 

13  per  pound. 
5^A  per  pound. 

3  per  pound. 
7^2  per  pound. 

Fish,  fresh: 
Bass  
Codfish  
Halibut,  steak  
Mackerel,  Spanish.  . 
Perch  

2  per  pound. 
1^2  per  pound. 
4t}/z  per  pound. 
31A  per  pound. 
2  per  pound. 
6  per  pound. 
3^2  per  pound. 
6  per  pound. 
2*4  per  pound. 
*H  per  pound. 

5  per  pound. 
9  per  pound. 
7J/2  per  pound. 
10  per  pound. 

6K  per  pound. 
9  per  pound. 
91A  per  pound. 

1  1A  per  pound. 
2  per  pound. 
4  per  quart. 
%1A  per  pound. 

4  per  pound. 
5  per  pound. 

19  per  pound. 
25  per  pound. 
27  ££  per  pound. 
20  per  pound. 

Shad  
Shad  roe  
Smells  
Trout,  brook  
Fish,  smoked  or  salted: 
Cod,  salt  (boneless)  . 
Halibut,  smoked  .... 
Herring,  smoked.  .  .  . 
Mackerel,  salt  
Fish,  canned: 
Salmon  

Beef,  round  
Beef,  sirloin  
Beef  tongue  
Lamb,  average  
Lamb,  leg  
Lamb,  loin  
Mutton,  average  
Pork,  average  
Pork,  except  items  in 
II,  average  
Veal,  average  
Poultry: 
Chicken,  broilers  .... 
Fowl  

Tuna  fish  ... 
Shellfish,  fresh: 
Lobster  
Oysters  

Scallops.... 
Shellfish,  canned: 
Lobster  
Shrimps  
Legumes: 
Peanuts,  unshelled  .  . 
Peanuts,  shelled  
Peanut  butter  
Soy  beans,  dried  

GROUP  II.    FATS   AND   FAT  FOODS 


Fats,  table  and  cooking: 
Butter  . 

Nuts  —  continued. 

Lard  
Oil  ... 

41  per  pound. 

Butternuts,'  shelled.. 

32  per  pound. 

Suet  
Cream,  18  per  cent  ... 
Cream,  40  per  cent.  .  .  . 
Fat  meats: 
Bacon  
Pork,  salt  
Pork  sausage  
Nuis: 
Almonds,  unshelled.  . 
Almonds,  shelled  
Bnizil  nuts,  unshelled 
Brazil  nuts,  shelled.  . 

34  per  pound. 
9  per  pound  or  per  pint. 
17  per  pound  or  per  pint  . 

26  per  pound. 
28^  per  pound. 
21  per  pound. 

16  per  pound. 
29  per  pound. 
16  per  pound. 
32  per  pound. 

without  milk  
Hickory  nuts,  un- 
shelled   
Hickory  nuts, 
shelled  
Pecans,  unshelled.  .  . 
Pecans,  shelled  
Walnuts,  California, 
unshelled  
Walnuts,  California, 
shelled  
Chocolate  

14  per  pound. 
1  'I  per  pound. 

33  per  pound. 
17  per  pound. 
33  per  pound. 

8  }/2  per  pound. 

32  per  pound. 
28  per  pound. 

GROUP  III.     CEREAL  FOODS 


Bread  

12  per  pound. 
9  per  loaf,  16  oz.  dough, 

Flour,  buckwheat  
Macaroni 

16  per  pound. 

Cereals,  flaked  
Corn  meal  
Crackers  
Flour,  wheat  

12-14  oz.  baked 
15  per  pound. 
16  per  pound. 
19  per  pound. 
16  per  pound. 

Oatmeal  
Rice  
Rolls  
Tapioca  
Wheat,  shredded  

18  per  pound. 
16  per  pound. 
12  per  pound. 
16  per  pound. 
16J/2  per  pound. 

433 


BALANCED   RATIONS 


APPROXIMATE  NUMBER  OF  100  CALORIE    PORTIONS   IN  COMMON 

FOOD  MATERIALS.— Continued. 
GROUP  IV.    SUGARS  AND  SUGARY  FOODS 


Materials. 

Number  of 
100-Calorie  Portions. 

Materials. 

Number  of 
100-Calorie  Portions. 

Candy,  average  
Honey 

17  per  pound. 
15  per  pound. 
55  per  quart. 
13  per  pound. 
50  per  quart. 
14  1/2  per  pound.    . 

Sirup,  corn  

54  per  quart. 
49  per  quart. 
18  per  pound. 
15  per  pound. 
^•/i  per  pound. 
22  per  pound. 

S  ugar,  granulated  
Sugar,  maple  
Chocolate,  milk  
Chocolate,  sweet  

Molasses 

Sirup,  corn  

GROUP  V.    VEGETABLES  AND  FRUITS 


Vegetables,  fresh: 
Asparagus  
Beans,  lima,  shelled.  . 

1  per  pound. 
5)  2  per  pound. 
7  per  quart. 

Vegetables,  canned  — 
Continued. 
Tomatoes  

1  per  pound. 
1  &  per  No.  2  can. 

Beans,  string  

Beets  .  .  . 
Cabbage 

1  %  per  pound. 
1  %  per  quart. 
\Yi  per  pound. 
1  per  pound. 

Peas  

Vegetables,  dried: 
Beans 

%Yl  per  pound. 
3  per  No.  2  can. 

3  per  medium-sized 

Cowpeas  

15/4  P6*1  pound. 

head  (3  pounds). 

Peas  

16  per  pound. 

Carrots  
Cauliflower  

1  Yi  per  pound. 
1  Yi  per  pound. 
2  per  medium-sized 
head  (1)^  pounds). 

Fruits,  fresh: 
Apples  

Bananas 

2  per  pound. 
24  per  peck. 
3  per  pound. 

Celery  
Corn  

^4  per  pound. 
1  %  per  pound. 

11  per  dozen   medium- 
sized. 

Cowpeas,  shelled  
Cucumbers  . 

sized  ears. 
6  per  pound. 

Cranberries  
Currants  
Grapes 

2  per  pound  or  per  qt. 
2  M>  per  pound  or  per  qi. 
§¥<>  per  pound  or  per  ql  . 

Lemons  .  . 

Lettuce  

54  per  pound. 

43^  per  dozen  medium- 

ic 

Y\  per  medium-sized 
head.         , 

Mnskmelon  

sized. 
1  per  pound  or  1  per  me- 

Mushrooms   
Okra 

2  per  pound. 

dium-sized. 

Onions  
Parsnips 

2  per  pound. 

Peaches 

dozen  medium-sized. 
1  /•''z  Per  pound  6  per  do'/.. 

Peas  

2M  per  pound. 
20  per  peck. 

Pears  .-  
Plums 

2H  per  pound. 

Potatoes,  Irish  
Potatoes,  sweet  
Pumpkin  .  . 

3  per  pound. 
45  per  peck. 
4^2  per  pound. 
63  per  peck. 
\<i  per  pound. 

Raspberries  
Strawberries  
Watermelon  
Fruits,  canned: 
Cherries  

3  per  pound  or  per  qt. 
1  %  per  pound  or  per  qt. 
}  2  per  pound. 

4  per  pound. 

Radishes  
Rhubarb  

1  per  pound. 
•>i  per  pound. 

Peaches  

5  per  No.  2  can. 
2  per  pound. 

Spinach.  

1  per  pound. 

Pears 

%y?  per  No.  2  can. 

Squash  
Tomatoes 

1  per  pound. 

Pineapples    . 

4H  per  No.  2  can. 

Turnips  
Turnip  tops  
Vegetables,  canned: 

1  Y±  per  pound 
2  per  pound. 

Fruits,  dried: 
Apples  

4H  Per  No.  2  can. 
13  per  pound. 

Dates 

Beans   baked 

1  %  per  No.  2  can. 

Figs  

14^  per  pound. 

Corn  

7  per  No.  2  can. 
4^  per  pound. 
6  per  No.  2  can. 

Raisins  
Fruits,  miscellaneous: 
Olives,  green  or  ripe 

14  per  pound. 
10  per  pound  or  per  pt. 

43 1 


DIET  FOR  WEIGHT  CONTROL 


Graceful  as  a  willow  wand, 
But  more  divinely  proportioned. 

— Romance  of  Youth. 


Jack  Sprat  could  eat  no  fat, 

His  wife  could  eat  no  lean; 
And  so  betwixt  them  both, 

They  licked  the  platter  clean. 

— Mother  Goose. 


436 


DIET  FOR  WEIGHT  CONTROL 

FROM  the  nature  of  their  diet,  it  is  easy  to  believe  that  Jack 
Sprat  of  the  nursery  rhyme  was  under  weight,  and  that  Mrs . 
Sprat  was  the  exact  opposite.  While  it  is  undoubtedly  true  that 
some  persons  are  naturally  inclined  to  thinness,  and  others  to  fat- 
ness, it  is  also  equally  true  that  undue  excess  in  either  direction  can 
largely  be  controlled  by  proper  diet. 

Causes  of  Overweight- — Simply  stated,  excess  weight  results  from 
an  overconsumption  of  the  fuel  and  energy  foods;  that  is,  starches, 
sugars,  and  fats.  If  too  much  of  these  foods  is  consumed,  the 
excess  is  stored  up  by  nature  in  the  body  as  adipose  tissue  or  fat. 
Nature's  wise  purpose  is  to  be  able,  in  emergency,  to  draw  upon 
the  stored  supply,  when  the  tissues  are  wasted  by  disease  or  fever. 
But  an  excess  of  such  storage  results  not  only  in  an  awkward 
burden  of  avoirdupois,  and  unpleasing  physical  proportions,  but 
causes  overtaxation  of  the  heart,  and  becomes  dangerous  to  health. 

Curing  One's  Self. — The  cause  being  understood,  the  method  of 
cure  is  evident.  The  first  necessity  is  to  face  the  fact.  Be  weighed. 
'Consult  the  table  of  normal  weights,  page  441,  then  use  every 
ounce  of  will-power  possessed  to  overcome  the  unpleasant  condi- 
tion. Unless  the  overweight  is  due  to  some  disturbance  of  the 
secretions  of  the  body,  about  which  a  physician  should  be  con- 
sulted, unflagging  perseverance  in  cutting  down  the  diet,  and  in 
taking  exercise  will  result  in  reducing  the  pull  on  the  scales. 

Foods  to  Avoid. — Of  course  the  foods  to  shun  are  the  starch, 
sugar,  and  fat  foods, 

A  LIST  OF  FOODS  TO  AVOID 

Appetizers — catsups,  pickles,  olives,  horseradish,  etc. 
Rich  foods  made  with  fat  or  oil  bases — cream  soups  and  sauces, 
oil  salad  dressings. 

29  437  *-i. 


DIET   FOR  WEIGHT   CONTROL 

Carbonaceous  meats — pork  and  pork  products;  sausage,  scrap- 
ple, etc.  Such  vegetables  and  cereals  as  potatoes,  hominy,  rice, 
cornmeal  mush,  oatmeal,  parsnips,  beets,  turnips,  and  other 
starchy  foods. 

Sweets — candies,  cakes,  puddings,  pastry. 

Beverages — tea  and  coffee  may  be  used,  but  with  a  minimum 
of  sugar  and  cream,  far  better  without  either.  Avoid  cocoa  and 
unskimmed  milk. 

WHAT  TO  EAT 
For  breakfasts: 

Fruits — oranges,  grapefruit,  peaches,  pears,  apples,  grapes,  cherries,  etc. 

Berries — fresh  strawberries,  blackberries,  huckleberries  or  blueberries,  etc. 

Bread  or  cereal — one  piece  toast,  bran,  or  graham  bread;   or,  1  cup  (scant)  puffed 

whole  cereal,  with  skimmed  milk. 
Beverages — tea  or  coffee  without  cream  and  sugar. 

For  dinners : 


Clear  soups  or  broths. 

Lean  meat,  chicken,  or  white  fleshed  fish. 

Green  and  succulent  vegetables — spinach,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  tomatoes,  string 

beans,  cress,  celery,  etc.,  without  butter  or  cream  dressing. 
Salads  with  a  very  little  French  dressing. 
Fruit  desserts;  as,  prunes,  pineapple. 
Beverages — lemonade  with  little  sugar,  or  tea  or  coffee. 

For  luncheons  or  suppers: 

Thin  soup;  as,  tomato,  consomme. 

One  glass  skimmed  milk  or  buttermilk,  or  poached  egg,  or  spinach  with  egg,  or  fish. 

Bread  or  cereal  as  for  breakfast. 

Fruit  or  plain  salad. 

Select  only  one  or  two  items  of  food  for  each  meal;  a  greater 
variety  is  conducive  to  weight. 

In  following  a  reducing  dietary,  it  would  be  well  to  serve  a  sugar- 
less, creamless,  cup  of  hot  tea  or  coffee  mid-meals,  but  no  food 
should  be  eaten  between  meals.  It  is  generally  thought  wise  to  cut 
down  the  quantity  of  water,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  in 
cases  of  gout  and  rheumatism,  an  increased  amount  of  liquid  is 
necessary.  In  all  cases  gradual  reduction  of  weight  is  much  better 

438  L-L 


DIET   FOR  WEIGHT   CONTROL 


than  rapid  decrease.  Loose  skin  over  reduced  muscles  makes  an 
aged  appearance,  and  sudden  loss  of  weight  may  injure  the  health. 
Elderly  people  should  not  follow  a  rigid  system  of  reduction. 

If  a  glass  or  two  of  water  is  taken  before  eating,  it  may  help 
with  a  rigid  regime,  by  giving  a  sense  of  fullness  at  the  beginning 
of  a  meal.  The  extent  of  diet  restrictions  depends  upon  the  amount 
of  excess  weight.  Having  decided  how  much  the  daily  allowance 
should  be  cut  down,  do  not  carry  out  the  plan  spasmodically,  but 
day -in  and  day-out  keep  within  the  limitation;  and  the  reward  will 
surely  come. 

It  is  well  to  remember  that  over-eating  is  more  dangerous  than 
under-eating;  and  that  after  all,  the  question  of  reduction  is  chiefly 
n  question  of  the  intelligent  control  of  the  appetite. 

By  consulting  chapter  on  Balanced  Rations,  page  417,  many 
hints  may  be  gleaned  as  to  selections  for  menus,  always  allowing 
less  food  than  for  the  average  person. 

A  bottle  of  citrate  of  magnesia  taken  once  a  week  is  usually 
beneficial  as  a  body  regulator,  the  consequent  depletion  of  the 
blood  vessels  of  the  intestines  causing  them  to  give  up  considerable 
water,  thus  lessening  weight. 

Exercise. — Since  overweight  is  caused  by  storage  of  energy  food, 
it  follows  that  an  expenditure  of  energy  will  draw  upon  such  stor- 
age, and  reduce  weight.  Before  any  system  of  strenuous  exercise 
is  undertaken,  a  thorough  examination  should  be  given  by  a  phy- 
sician as  to  heart  action,  blood  pressure,  and  general  physical  fit- 
ness. Exercises  are  of  very  little  help  unless  kept  up  regularly. 
One  rule  must  be  observed:  stop  when  tired.  Almost  any  good 
book  on  physical  training  will  give  excellent  exercises  for  weight- 
control. 

Remember  that  walking  in  the  open  air  is  always  a  splendid 
exercise,  using  up  food  fuel  rapidly.  No  so-called  "reducing*' 
medicines  should  be  taken  without  the  advice  of  a  physician,  for 
probably  all  such  medicines  are  dangerous. 

HOW  TO  ADD   WEIGHT 

Foods  to  Avoid. — It  is  very  much  easier  to  add  than  to  reduce 
weight,  for  all  the  "indulgences"  of  diet  are  the  things  needed. 
Usually  the  person  of  underweight  is  overfond  of  salads  and  other 
foods  which  give  bulk.  It  would  be  well  to  read  a  list  of  what  the 
obese  should  avoid,  in  order  to  know  what  the  too  thin  should  eat; 
but  if  sweets  and  desserts  are  taken  at  the  beginning  of  a  meal,  or 
between  meals,  the  desire  for  substantial  food  is  lost. 

439  L-L 


DIET   FOR  WEIGHT   CONTROL 


What  to  Eat. — The  fattening  foods  or  carbohydrates — starches, 
sugars  and  fats — are  what  the  too  thin  person  should  choose  in 
diet;  and  not  many  succulent  green  vegetables,  or  salads,  unless 
they  are  served  with  mayonnaise  dressing  made  of  oil,  or  of  rich 
cream.  Potatoes  or  any  other  starchy  vegetable  with  cream  sauce: 
or  rice,  hominy,  corn  and  similar  cereal  foods  should  be  selected. 

For  desserts — puddings  and  cakes  with  cream,  ice-cream,  and 
whipped  cream;  sweet  chocolate. 

For  beverages — little  tea  or  coffee.  Drink  and  eat  whole  milk, 
swallowing  it  slowly.  This  food  is  excellent  between  meals.  Cocoa 
and  chocolate. 

If  digestion  is  weak,  do  not  use  many  different  kinds  of  food  at 
one  meal.  Use  no  pickles;  few  acids. 

By  turning  to  the  tables  of  food  values  on  page  425,  calculation 
may  be  made  as  to  dietary,  always  allowing  more  fuel  food  than 
for  the  average  person. 

List  of  Fattening  Foods 

Cream  soups. 

Cream  dressings. 

Milk  dishes. 

Oil  dressings. 

Potatoes,  sweet  and  white,  turnips,  carrots,  etc. 

Macaroni,  spaghetti,  etc. 

Rice,  tapioca,  and  arrow-root  puddings. 

Cakes  of  all  kinds. 

Sweet  chocolate,  candies. 

Cocoa,  chocolate,  whipped  cream,  ice-cream,  cereals  with  cream. 

Eat  also  eggs,  fish,  meat,  beans,  peas,  lentils,  fruits  and  berries 
Consult  the  following  weight  tables.  Be  weighed;  and  train 
your  taste  to  like  what  your  body  needs.  To  do  this,  take  at  first 
only  a  little  of  the  kind  of  food  you  do  not  care  for.  Rest,  and 
then  exercise.  Take  plenty  of  sleep — ten  hours  each  night  if 
possible,  and  angles  will  become  curves;  the  lean  and  hungry  look 
will  disappear;  and,  incidentally,  life  will  seem  brighter.  Then, 
too,  in  case  of  illness  nature  will  have  a  store  of  energy  fuel  to 
draw  upon. 

Rest-. — Thin  people  are  usually  of  restless,  nervous  temperament, 
" always  on  the  move,"  expending  muscular  energy  every  waking 
minute;  bolting  a  meal,  and  flying  away  to  another  occupation. 
The  old  Roman  custom  of  resting  and  relaxing,  but  not  napping, 

440  L-L 


DIET   FOR  WEIGHT   CONTROL 


after  eating  had  a  very  commendable  reason.  So,  too,  had  their 
custom  of  massaging  with  oil.  The  thin  person  will  find  such 
massage  very  beneficial,  for  the  body  is  able  to  absorb  such  food. 

Codliver  oil,  taken  either  in  capsules,  or  by  the  spoonful  fol- 
lowed with  orange  juice,  is  a  flesh-builder  as  well  as  a  health  giver. 
This  oil  is  very  easily  digested. 

Rest  is  necessary  for  increasing  weight ;  but  so  also  is  exercise,  for 
the  thin  person  needs  plenty  of  oxygen  to  aid  in  the  digestion  and 
assimilation  of  food,  and  in  throwing  off  poisonous  waste  matters. 

The  following  tables  afford  a  standard  of  weight  for  comparison. 
In  comparing  your  own  weight  with  the  table,  your  type  of  build 
should  be  taken  into  account,  as  well  as  height  and  age.  A  person 
of  naturally  slender  type  might  be  below  the  standard,  or  one  of 
stocky,  thick-set  type  might  be  above  the  standard,  and  yet  both 
be  normally  healthy.  If,  however,  the  excess  in  either  direction 
is  over  ten  per  cent,  corrective  measures  should  be  taken. 

In  ascertaining  height,  measure  in  shoes;  stand  erect,  and  press 
measuring  rod  down  on  scalp.  Weigh  yourself  in  indoor  clothing 
and  shoes.  Subtract  one  inch  for  height  if  sensible  heels  are  worn; 
if  heels  are  "high, "  subtract  two  inches.  Your  standard  of  weight 
is  found  where  your  height  and  age  columns  meet, 


WEIGHT  TABLE  FOR  WOMEN  OF  DIFFERENT  HEIGHTS  AND  AGES  * 


AGE,  YEABS. 


19 

20 

21-22 

23-24 

25-29 

30-34 

35-39 

40-44 

45-49 

50-54 

4  ft.  10  in  

98 

102 

106 

110 

113 

116 

119 

123 

126 

129 

4  ft.  11  in  

103 

107 

109 

112 

115 

118 

121 

125 

128 

131 

5  ft    

109 

112 

113 

115 

117 

120 

123 

127 

130 

133 

5  ft.  1  iQ  

113 

115 

116 

118 

119 

122 

125 

129 

132 

135 

5  ft.  2  in  

116 

118 

119 

120 

121 

124 

127 

132 

135 

138 

5  ft.  3  in  

120 

121 

122 

123 

124 

127 

130 

135 

138 

141 

5  ft.  4  in  

123 

124 

125 

126 

128 

131 

134 

138 

141 

144 

5  ft.  5  in  

126 

127 

128 

129 

131 

134 

138 

142 

145 

148 

5  ft.  6  in  

129 

130 

131 

133 

135 

138 

142 

146 

149 

152 

5ft.  7  in  

131 

133 

135 

137 

139 

142 

146 

150 

153 

156 

5  ft.  8  in  ........ 

135 

137 

139 

141 

143 

146 

150 

154 

157 

161 

5  ft.  9  in  

138 

140 

142 

145 

147 

150 

154 

158 

161 

165 

5  ft.  10  in. 

141 

143 

145 

148 

151 

154 

157 

161 

164 

169 

5  ft.  11  in 

145 

147 

149 

151 

154 

157 

160 

164 

168 

173 

6ft  '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. 

150 

152 

154 

156 

158 

161 

163 

167 

171 

176 

*  This  table  was  prepared  by  Thomas  D.  Wood,  M.D.,  Professor  of  Physical 
Education,  Columbia  University,  and  is  used  by  the  United  States  Bureau  of 
Education  and  the  Child  Health  Organization  of  America. 

441  L-L 


DIET   FOR  WEIGHT   CONTROL 


WEIGHT  TABLE  FOR  MEN  OF  DIFFERENT  HEIGHTS  AND  AGES 


AGE,  YEABS. 


19 

20 

21-22 

23-24 

25-29 

30-34 

35-39 

40-44 

45-49 

50-54 

55-59 

5ft  

107 

110 

114 

118 

122 

126 

128 

131 

133 

134 

135 

5  ft.  1  in  

112 

115 

118 

121 

124 

128 

130 

133 

135 

136 

137 

5ft.  ft  in  

117 

120 

122 

124 

K>t> 

130 

132 

135 

137 

138 

13!) 

5  ft.  3  in  

121 

124 

126 

128 

129 

133 

135 

138 

140 

141 

142 

5ft.  4  in  

124 

127 

129 

131 

133 

136 

138 

141 

143 

144 

145 

5  ft.  5  in  

128 

130 

132 

134 

137 

140 

142 

145 

147 

148 

149 

5  ft.  6  in  

132 

133 

136 

138 

141 

144 

146 

149 

151 

152 

153 

5  ft.  7  in  

136 

137 

140 

142 

145 

148 

150 

153 

155 

156 

158 

5ft.  Sin  

140 

141 

143 

146 

149 

152 

155 

158 

160 

161 

163 

5  ft.  9  in  

144 

145 

147 

150 

153 

156 

160 

163 

165 

166 

168 

5ft.  10  in  

148 

149 

151 

154 

157 

161 

165 

168 

170 

171 

173 

5ft.  11  in  

153 

154 

156 

159 

162 

166 

170 

174 

176 

177 

178 

6  ft. 

158 

160 

162 

165 

167 

172 

176 

180 

182 

183 

184 

6ft.  1  in  

163 

165 

167 

170 

173 

178 

182 

186 

188 

190 

191 

6  ft.  2  in. 

168 

170 

173 

176 

179 

184 

189 

193 

195 

197 

198 

6ft.  Sin  

173 

175 

178 

181 

184 

190 

195 

200 

202 

204 

205 

6ft.  4  in  

178 

180 

183 

186 

189 

196 

201 

206 

209 

211 

212 

Oft,  Sin  

183 

185 

188 

191 

194 

201 

207 

212 

215 

217 

219 

*  This  table  was  prepared  by  Thomas  D.  Wood,  M.D.,  Professor  of  Physical 
Education,  Columbia  University,  and  is  used  by  the  United  States  Bureau  of 
Education  and  the  Child  Health  Organization  of  America. 


442 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


The  child  is  building  the  temple  of  the  soul,  planned  by  the  divine 
Architect — but  ofttimes  ruined  by  man's  bad  workmanship. 

—Child  Life. 


Upon  the  health  and  strength  of  our  children  the  glory  and  greatness 
cf  our  nation  depend. 

Every  child  has  a  right  to  be  as  healthy  as  present  knowledge  can 
make  him.     Proper  feeding  is  one  of  the  chief  factors  in  health. 

— Health  Education. 


444 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 

THE  witty  French  cook  who  said,  "Tell  me  what  you  eat, 
and  I  will  tell  you  what  you  are, "  might  even  more  certainly 
have  stated,  "Tell  me  what  you  give  your  children  to  eat,  and  I 
will  tell  you  what  they  will  grow  to  be, "  for  the  kind  of  food  the 
child  eats  largely  determines  whether  he  will  be  a  strong,  healthy 
adult,  or  a  weakling.  More  important,  then,  than  the  wise 
selection  of  foods  for  grown  people  is  the  proper  feeding  of  the 
growing  bodies  of  children — especially  of  little  children, 

A  few  general  rules  should  be  borne  in  mind: 

1.  Meals  should  be  given  at  regular  times. 

2.  No  "nibbling"  between  meals.     If  a  child  is  really  hungry,  a 
slice  of  bread  and  butter  will  satisfy  the  craving  for  food.     Never 
give  candy  at  such  times.     It  will  not  only  spoil  the  normal  appe- 
tite, but  will  encourage  a  bad  habit.     Oftentimes  a  glass  of  water, 
and  not  food,  is  what  the  little  one  really  craves. 

3.  Teach  the  child  to  drink  plenty  of  water  between  meals — 
several  glasses  a  day. 

4.  Happiness  while  eating  is  essential  to  good  digestion. 

5.  Do  not  force  a  child  to  eat.     If  after  a  day  or  two  the  appetite 
does  not  return,  consult  a  physician. 

0.  Teach  a  child  to  wash  face  and  hands  before  eating.     Explain 
that  dirt  is  dangerous.     Explain  that  flies  are  dangerous. 

Teach  a  child  to  demand  fresh  air  and  sunshine,  for  they  are 
the  great  cleansers  of  nature. 

7.  Children  may  generally  be  taught  to  like  all  kinds  of  foods 
that  are  good  for  them.  By  giving  a  little  of  a  new  food  at  first, 
taste  can  be  cultivated. 

Staple  Food  Requirements 

1.  Milk  is  the  best  arid  most  important  food  for  growing  chil- 
dren.    No  other  food  can  take  its  place.     Children  over  five  years 
of  age  should  have  at  least  three  cups  a  day,  more  if  possible. 

445  L-L 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


Warm  milk  is  more  easily  digested  than  cold  milk.  If  children 
rebel  against  drinking  plain  milk,  it  may  be  given  in  the  form  of 
cocoa,  milk  soups,  custards,  etc.  If  it  is  impossible  to  get  fresh 
milk,  use  dried  milk.  If  neither  fresh  nor  dried  milk  is  procurable, 
use  evaporated  milk.  If  skimmed  milk  is  given,  the  child  should 
eat  plenty  of  vegetables  and  cream  or  butter.  Tea  and  coffee 
should  not  be  given  to  growing  children  at  all. 

Bread  and  milk  form  a  perfect  food,  containing  all  food  elements 
in  the  right  proportion  to  sustain  child  life.  The  milk  furnishes 
protein  for  muscles  and  other  tissues;  fats  and  sugar  for  body  fuel; 
minerals  for  bones  and  other  tissues;  vitamins,  essential  to  growth 
and  health.  The  bread  furnishes  some  of  each  of  these,  but  is 
valuable  because  it  provides  starch  fuel  food,  and  gives  bulk. 

2.  Bread,  cereals  and  other  grain  products  should  furnish  about 
one-third  the  food  required  by  a  child. 

3.  Vegetables  are  essential  to  the  growing  child  not  only  for  their 
food  value,  but  because  they  contain  vitamins  (see  page   4£0). 
The  water  in  which  vegetables  and  rice  have  been  boiled  should  be 
used  for  making  soups,  sauces,  and  gravies.     Where  for  any  reason 
there  is  a  scarcity  of  milk  and  eggs,  the  diet  should  include  as  much 
milk  as  possible,  with  pea  or  bean  soups,  spinach  and  other  green 
vegetables,  oatmeal,  and  dried  fruits.     Vegetables  and  fruits  are 
excellent  sources  of  iron  and  other  elements  necessary  for  growth. 
If  combined  with  milk,  they  will  supply  food  value  fully  equal  to 
that  of  meat. 

4.  Eggs,  meat,  etc.     Aside  from  milk,  eggs  are  the  best  source  of 
protein  for  children.     Where  plenty  of  milk  and  an  egg  a  day  are 
included  in  the  diet,  a  child  needs  very  little  meat.     Allow  not 
more  than  2  ounces  of  meat  a  day  for  a  child  from  7-10  years;  3 
ounces  daily  from  10—14  years.     Broth  from  stews  may  be  given 
on  vegetables  and  bread. 

5.  Fruits. — There  should  be  some  fruit  in  the  diet  every  day. 
Where  fresh  fruit  is  not -possible,  use  dried  fruit.     Bananas  should 
not  be  eaten  raw  by  very  young  children.     Bananas  are  not  ripe 
until  the  skins  have  brown  spots.     They  should  be  cooked  if  given 
before  they  reach  this  stage. 

6.  Sweets. — There  is  danger  of  children  getting  too  much  sugar 
and  spoiling  the  appetite.     They  should  not  have  more  than  the 
following  allowance,  aside  from  that  contained  in  foods: 

5  to    7  years 1  tablespoon  daily 

7  to  12  years 2  tablespoons  daily 

446  L-L 


SCHOOL   LUNCHES 


It  is  better  to  give  sugar  in  cocoa  and  desserts  than  as  candy. 
Molasses  has  a  high  food  value.  Dates  are  a  good  substitute  for 
candy. 

7.  Fats  are  essential  for  growing  children.  Cream  and  butter, 
the  fats  of  milk,  are  the  most  important  kinds;  therefore,  children 
should  have  unskimmed  milk.  For  the  delicate  child,  cod-liver 
oil  is  an  excellent  fat,  containing  large  quantities  of  vitamins,  see 
page  420.  Cod-liver  oil  may  be  procured  in  gelatine  capsules,  but 
if  orange  juice  is  given  after,  the  child  seldom  objects  to  the  oil. 
Other  oils,  such  as  olive,  corn,  and  peanut,  are  good  foods,  too,  in 
small  quantities.  (See  Salads,  page  167.)  Young  children  should 
not  have  cooked  fats  except  bacon  fat,  which  is  easily  digested. 
All  fried  foods  should  be  avoided. 

Children  need  at  least  three  meals  a  day.  The  heavy  meal 
should  preferably  come  at  mid-day,  with  a  light  supper,  such  as 
bread  and  whole  milk,  baked  potatoes,  stewed  fruit;  or  cereal  and 
milk,  bread  and  butter,  baked  bananas;  or  poached  egg  on  toast, 
baked  potatoes,  bread  and  butter,  apple  sauce,  gingerbread. 

Desserts. — Cooked  desserts  are  not  essential  with  plenty  of  bread 
and  butter  and  vegetables  and  fruit.  When  given,  they  should  be 
plain  and  simple;  as  cereal  puddings  with  fruit,  such  as  rice,  oat- 
meal, or  bread  pudding. 

Home  Lunches. — If  dinner  is  at  the  end  of  the  day,  let  the  lunch- 
eon be  as  light  as  the  supper  would  be  if  the  main  meal  were  at 
mid-day.  See  end  of  this  chapter  for  suggestions. 

Basket  Lunches. — School  authorities  are  recognizing  the  impor- 
tance of  a  warm  mid-day  meal  for  children,  and  many  schools  pro- 
vide school  lunches.  If  a  child  must  carry  a  whole  luncheon,  it 
should  be  nutritious  as  well  as  appetizing.  If  possible  let  it  include 
a  bottle  of  milk.  If  it  is  practical  for  the  child  to  use  a  thermos 
bottle,  the  milk  may,  of  course,  be  warm;  or  hot  cocoa,  or  soup  may 
be  provided  by  this  means.  The  following  suggestions  should 
prove  helpful : 

NOURISHING  SANDWICHES  APPETIZING  FILLINGS 

Whole  wheat  bread  Peanut  butter 

Raisin  bread  Chopped  celery  with  mayonnaise 

Toast  Lettuce  and  toinato  with  dressing 

Nut  bread  Jelly,  or  chopped  raisins 

Oatmeal  muffins  Chopped  dates 

Rolls  Chopped  olives  and  peppers,  mayon- 
naise dressing 

447  L-L 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


See  chapter  on  Sandwiches,  page  287,  for  further  suggestions. 
Desserts  of  custard,  baked  apple,  sweet  chocolate,  maple  sugar, 
sponge  cake,  fruit  cookies,  or  gingerbread  make  a  pleasant  variety. 

It  is  essential  for  the  children  to  have  plenty  of  time  in  which  to  eat 
their  mid-day  meal.  The  child  who  bolts  a  meal  and  rushes  back 
to  school  cannot  either  work  or  digest  properly.  It  would  be  better 
to  carry  a  lunch  than  to  go  home  fora  warm  meal,  if  the  journey 
means  hurried  eating. 

Summary.— In  the  diet  of  the  child  the  following  is  suggestive: 

WHAT  FOODS  TO  AVOID  WHAT  FOODS  MEAN  GOOD  HEALTH 

Coffee  Milk 

Tea  Vegetables 

Sodas  Thick  soups 

Much  candy  Cereals 

Doughnuts  Fruits 

Much  meat  Honey  and  mola^,-. 

Rich  cakes  Rice  puddings 

Highly  seasoned  dishes  Custards 

Pies  Ice  cream 

The  School  Lunch  Room 

The  school  lunch  room,  which  may  be  conducted  by  the  Parent- 
Teacher  Association  or  the  Home  and  School  Club,  makes  it  possible 
for  children  to  buy  nourishing  warm  food  for  a  few  cents.  This 
is  a  very  pleasant  arrangement  for  all  children,  but  its  chief  value 
is  in  promoting  the  health  of  those  who  are  under-nourished  at 
home.  The  time  will  come,  no  doubt,  when  the  authorities  of 
every  school  will  provide  meals  for  all  children  who  are  under- 
weight, or  who  otherwise  show  malnutrition. 

Most  housekeepers  have  collections  of  recipes  of  all  kinds,  but 
probably  few  have  attempted  to  compile  lists  of  dishes  suitable  for 
school  lunches.  A  few  suggestions  may  be  welcome.  By  all  means 
children  should  be  instructed  in  the  lunch  room  as  to  food  values, 
and  should  not  be  allowed  to  select  sweets  or  ice-cream  in  the  place 
of  substantial  dishes. 

School  Lunch  Room  Bills  of  Fare 

1.  Vegetable  or  milk  soup;  crackers;  rolls;  fruit;  plain  cake; 
cocoa. 

2.  Meat  and  vegetable  stew;  bread  and  butter;  sweet  chocolate. 

448  L-L 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


3.  Tomato   soup;  tapioca  custard;   lettuce   sandwiches;   fruit; 
cookies. 

4.  Macaroni  with  cheese  and  tomato  sauce;  fruit;  chopped  date 
sandwiches. 

Milk  and  cocoa  should  always  be  provided. 

A  few  meat  substitute*  and  "meat  extenders." — Scrambled  eggs 
with  minced  ham  or  bacon;  meat  stew  with  vegetables;  shep- 
herds's  pie  (meat  pie  with  mashed  potato  cover) ;  creamed  frizzled 
beef  on  toast;  fish  cakes;  salmon  loaf;  macaroni  or  spaghetti  with 
tomato  sauce;  creamed  potatoes  au  gratin. 

A  LIST  OF  SOUPS  DESSERTS 

Vegetable  Soup  Rice  Pudding 

(  ream  of  Pea  Soup  Boiled  Custard 

(  Voam  of  Tomato  Soup  Tapioca  and  Fruit  Pudding 

Dried  Lima  Bean  Soup  Bread  Pudding 

Split  Pea  Soup  Apple  Betty  with  Cream 

Potato  Soup  Junket 

Corn  Chowder  Fruit,  raw  or  cooked 

Fish  Chowder  Gingerbread  or  plain  cake 

Cocoa  for  School  Lunch  Room,  x 

Measure  one  pound  of  cocoa.  Add  as  many  cups  of  sugar  as 
there  are  of  cocoa.  Add  three  cups  of  water.  Cook  until  thick 
and  glossy.  Pour  into  jelly  glasses  or  glass  jars.  Cover  and  set 
away.  When  cocoa  is  wanted  for  lunch  use,  prepare  according 
to  the  following  recipe : 

1  cup  milk  for  each  child. 

11/2  tablespoons  of  the  cocoa  mixture 

Heat  the  milk  scalding  hot  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  cocoa 
mixture.  Beat  well  and  serve.  More  sugar  may  be  used  in  the 
mixture  if  it  is  found  that  the  children  desire  it  sweeter. 

NOTE. — The  tables  of  height  and  weight  for  girls  and  boys,  pages 
450,  451,  afford  a  standard  for  comparison  only.  In  comparing  a 
child's  height  and  weight  with  the  table,  the  type  of  build  should 
be  taken  into  account.  A  child  of  slender  type  might  be  under 
weight,  and  one  of  thick-set,  stocky  type  might  be  over  weight, 
and  yet  both  be  normally  healthy.  A  slight  variation  is  no  cause 
for  alarm,  but  if  the  difference  amounts  to  ten  per  cent,  however, 
corrective  measures  should  be  taken. 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


RIGHT  HEIGHT  AND  WEIGHT  FOR  GIRLS 


HEIGHT, 

INCHES. 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

39 

34 

35 

36 

40 

36 

37 

38 

41 

38 

39 

40 

42 

40 

41 

42 

43 

4'1 

42 

42 

43 

44 

44 

44 

45 

45 

46 

45 

46 

47 

47 

48 

49 

46 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 
61 

48 

-48 
49 
51 
53 

49 
50 
52 
54 
56 
59 
62 

50 
51 
53 
55 
57 
60 
63 
66 
68 

51 
52 
54 
56 

58 
61 
64 
67 
69 
72 
76 

53 
55 
57 
59 

62 
65 

68 
70 

73 
77 
81 
85 
.89 

56 
58 
60 
63 
66 
68 
71 
74 
78 
82 
86 
90 
94 
99 

61 
64 

67 
69 

72 
75 
79 
83 
87 
91 
95 
101 

70 
73 

76 
80 
84 
88 
93 
97 
102 

77 
81 
85 
89 
94 
99 
104 

86 
90 
95 
100 
106 

91 
96 
102 
108 

98 
104 
109 

106 
111 

62 

104 

106 

107 

109 

111 

113 

114 

115 

63 

109 

111 

112 

113 

115 

117 

118 

119 

64 

115 

117 

118 

119 

120 

121 

122 

65 

117 

119 

120 

122 

123 

124 

125 

66 

119 

121 

122 

124 

126 

127 

128 

67 

124 

126 

127 

128 

129 

130 

68 
69 

126 
129 

128 
131 

130 
133 

132 
135 

133 
136 

134 
137 

70 
71 

134 
138 

136 
140 

138 
142 

139 
143 

140 
144 

72 

145 

147 

148 

149 

ABOUT  WHAT  A  GIRL  SHOULD   GAIN  EACH   MONTH 

AGE  OUNCES 

5  to     8 6 

8  to  11 8 

11  to  14 12 

14  to  16 8 

16  to  18.... 4 

Height  and  weight  to  be  taken  in  house  clothes,  without  shoes.     Weigh  on  the 
same  day  each  month,  about  the  same  hour  of  the  day.    Age,  the  nearest  birthday. 

450  L-L 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


RIGHT  HEIGHT  AND  WEIGHT  FOR  BOYS 


HEIGHT, 

INCHES. 

6 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

39 

35 

36 

37 

40 

37 

38 

3Q 

41 

39 

40 

41 

42 
43 
44 
45 

40 
47 
48 
49 

41 
43 
45 
47 
48 

42 
44 
40 
47 
49 
51 
53 
55 

43 
45 
40 
48 
50 
52 
54 
56 

44 

46 
47 
48 
50 
52 
55 
57 

49 
51 
53 
55 

58 

54 
56 

58 

57 
59 

•• 

50 

58 

5Q 

00 

60 

61 

62 

51 

00 

61 

69 

63 

64 

65 

52 

60 

63 

64 

65 

67 

68 

53 
54 
55 
50 
57 
58 
59 
60 
01 
62 

66 
69 

67 
70 
73 

77 

68 
71 

74 
78 
81 
84 
87 
91 

69 
72 
75 
79 
82 
85 
88 
92 
95 
100 

70 
73 

76 
80 
83 
86 
89 
93 
97 
102 

71 

74 
77 
81 
84 
87 
90 
94 
99 
104 

78 
82 
85 
88 
92 
97 
102 
106 

86 
90 
94 
99 
104 
109 

9! 

96 
101 
106 
111 

97 
102 
108 
113 

iio 

116 

03 
04 
65 
06 
67 
68 
09 
70 

105 

107 
113 

109 
115 
120 
125 
130 
134 
138 

111 
117 
122 
126 
131 
135 
139 
142 

114 
118 
123 
127 
132 
136 
140 
144 

115 
119 
124 
128 
133 
137 
141 
145 

117 
120 
125 
129 
134 
138 
142 
146 

119 
122 
126 
130 
135 
139 
143 
147 

71 

147 

149 

150 

151 

152 

72 

152 

154 

155 

156 

157 

ABOUT  WHAT  A  BOY  SHOULD  GAIN  EACH  MONTH 

AGE  OUNCES 

5  to     8 6 

8  to  12 8 

12  to  14 12 

14  to  16 16 

16  to  18 8 

Height  and  weight  to  be  taken  in  house  clothes,  without  shoes.     Weigh  on  the 

same  date  each  month,  about  the  same  hour  of  the  day.    Age,  the  nearest  birthday. 

NOTE. — The  above  tables  were  prepared  by  Thomas  D.  Wood,  M.D.,  Professor  of 

Physical  Education,  Columbia  University,  and  are  used  by  the  United  States 

Bureau  of  Education  and  the  Child  Health  Organization  of  America. 

451  i^ 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


SAMPLE  WINTER  DIET  FOR  A  WEEK  FOR  CHILDREN  7  TO  12  YEARS 


BREAKFAST. 

DINNER. 

SUPPER. 

Oatmeal,  %  cup,  with  milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Baked  apple,  1. 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Roast  lamb,  small  slice;    baked 
potatoes. 
Beets,    onions,   or   oyster   plant, 
2  to  3  tablespoonfuls. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Rice  pudding,  2  to  3  tablespoon- 
fuls. 

Scrambled  egg,  1. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Oatmeal  cookies,  1  or  2. 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Hominy,  %  cup,  with  milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Bacon,  1  slice. 
Cocoa  with  milk,  1  cup. 

Vegetable    soup,    with    carrots, 
beans,  onions,  1  cup. 
Spinach  with  poached  egg,  2  to  3 
tablespoonfuls. 
Corn  bread  and  butter,  2   to  3 
slices. 
Dates,  4  to  5. 

Baked  potato,  1. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Cottage  cheese,  1  tablespoonful. 
Stewed   apricots,   2   to   3   table- 
spoonfuls. 

Corn  meal,  Yi  to  "%  cup,  with 
milk. 
Toast  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Apple  sauce,  2  to  4  tablespoon- 
fuls. 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Rice  and  meat  loaf,  small  por- 
tion. 
Stewed  celery  or  cauliflower,   2 
to  3  tablespoonfuls. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Baked  Indian  pudding,  2  table- 
spoonfuls. 

Rice  and  milk,  ^  cup. 
Creamed  carrots  or  celery. 
Bread  and  butter,  3  to  4  slices. 
Fruit  cookies,  1  or  2. 

Oatmeal,  %  cup,  with  milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Stewed  prunes  or  figs,  3  to  4. 
Cocoa  with  milk,  1  cup. 

Beef  stew  with  vegetables,  small 
portion. 
Bread  and  butter,  3  to  4  slices. 
Rice  pudding  or  custard,  2  to  3 
tablespoonfuls. 

Corn   bread   and   sirup,   2   to  8 
pieces. 
Macaroni,  with  tomatoes,  2  to  3 
tablespoonfuls. 
Bread,  2  to  3  slices,  and  peanut 
butter,  l/i  tablespoonful. 
Cocoa  with  milk,  1  cup. 

Corn  flakes,   1   to   2  cups,   and 
milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Soft  egg  and  bacon,  1. 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Chicken,    small    slice;      mashed 
potato,  2  to  3  tablespoonfuls. 
Creamed  carrots  or  onions,  2  to 
3  tablespoonfuls. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Gingerbread   and  thin  cream,  1 
small  piece. 
Milk,  1  glass. 

Milk  toast,  2  to  3  slices. 
Cottage  cheese,  1  tablespoonful. 
Stewed  prunes,  4  to  5. 
Cookies. 

Wheat  or  malt  breakfast  food, 
%  cup,  with  milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Soft  egg;   milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Creamed,  or  fresh   broiled  fish, 
small  portion. 
Baked  potato,  1. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Baked  apple,  1. 

Spinach  or  bean  soup,  1  cup. 
Baked  potato,  1. 
Corn  bread  and  butter,  2  pieces. 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Corn  meal,  %  cup,  and  milk. 
Toast  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Orange. 
Cocoa  with  milk,  1  cup. 

Lamb  stew  with  vegetables,  small 
portion. 
Baked  sweet  potato,  1. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Bread  or  rice  pudding,   2   to   3 
tablespoonfuls. 

Celery  soup  with  milk,  1  cup. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Custard  or  junket,  ^4  cup. 
Ginger  cookies,  1  to  2. 

Toward  spring,  when  eggs  are  abundant,  they  may  be  given  more  frequently, 
replacing  some  meat  and  milk. 

NOTE. — These  lists  for  diet  of  children  were  prepared  for  the  United  States 
Bureau  of  Education  by  the  Child  Health  Organization  of  America. 

452  if* 


INDEX 


Afternoon  tea,  19 
Albumenized  water,  356 
Almond  cream,  185 

rock  cakes,  267 
Almonds,  salted,  292,  406 

with  eggs,  128 
Ambrosia,  25 
Anchovy  canapes,  25 

sandwiches,  288 
Angel  cake,  255,  388 
Appetizers,  23 

ambrosia,  25 

anchovy  canapes,  25 

angels  on  horseback,  26 

cavair  canapes,  25 

cheese  canapes,  25 

clam  cocktail,  24 

grape-fruit  cocktail,  24 

ham  canapes,  25 

lobster  cocktail,  23 

mixed-fruit  cocktail,  24 

oyster  cocktail  I,  23 

oyster  cocktail  II,  23 

pineapple  and  banana  cocktail,  24 

peach  cocktail,  25 

raspberry  cocktail,  24 

strawberrv  cocktail,  24 
Apple  butter,  334 

cake,  233 

dainty,  406 

dumplings,  baked,  280 

fritters,  159 

jelly,  335 

meringue/ 191 

pie,  282,  393 

pudding,  196 

sauce,  105 

snow,  186 

tapioca,  190 

tart,  282 
Apples,  baked,  311 

baked,  with  oatmeal,  296 

canned,  325 

dried,  390 

fried,  312 

30  453 


Apricots,  dried,  390 
A-P's,  269 
Arrowroot,  355 

gruel,  364 

water,  355 
Artichoke,  Jerusalem,  141 

Globe,  141 
Asparagus,  146,  379 

cream  of,  33 

B 

Bacon  and  eggs,  78 
Baked  beans,  123,  380,  411 

crackers,  125 

flour  pudding,  193 

hash,  131,  376 
Baking  bread,  222 

cake,  254 

powder  bread,  225 
Baking  powder,  222,  255 
Balanced  rations,  417 
Banana  dainty,  177 

fritters,  160 

salad,  176 
Barley  mush,  365 

soup,  38 

Bavarian  cream,  188 
Bean  soup,  368 
Beans,  baked,  123,  380,  411 

Boston  roast,  124 

Lima,  142,  382 

Mexican,  124 

puree,  123,  382 

saute,  123 

string,  142 
Bechamel  sauce,  104 
Beef  a  la  mode,  62 

au  gratin,  373 

birds,  68 

boiled  dinner,  374 

boiling,  60,  372 

bouillon,  30 

brasing,  61 

broiling,  59 

chauffe,  405 

chop  suey,  66 


INDEX 


Beef,  corned,  64,  372 

creamed,  68 

cuts  of,  58 

Filipino,  67 

forcemeat,  94 

fricasseeing,  61 

frizzled,  69 

frying,  60 

guiso,  66 

Hungarian  goulash,  67 

kromeskies,  160 

loaf,  68 

Mexican,  66 

minced,  69 

mock  duck,  65 

mock  rabbit,  65 

pats,  360 

pickle  for  corning,  64 

pot-pie,  78 

pot  roast,  62 

purchasing,  57,  62 

roast,  59,  373 

roast  with  Yorkshire  pudding,  62 

roasting,  59 

sauteing,  61 

scalloped,  132 

soup,  35 

sour,  68 

stew,  373,  374 

stewing,  61 

tea,  353 

terrapin,  63 

tongue,  69,  70 
Beefsteak  (broiling),  59 

and  onions,  374 

en  casserole,  410 

Hamburg,  68 

planked,  63 

planked,  with  oysters,  64 

planked,  Salisbury,  64 

rolled,  65 

round,  373 

Spanish,  66 
Beet  greens,  140,  380 

salads,  173 
Beets,  144,  379 

pickled,  144,  380 
Belgrader  bread,  267 
Berry  charlotte,  191 

pudding,  197 
Bethlehem  apple  tart,  282 
Beverages,  345 

chocolate  nectar,  347 


Beverages,  chocolate  syrup,  347 

cocoa,  347 

coffee,  345 

coffee  in  bulk,  346 

egg  lemonade,  348 

five  o'clock  punch,  350 

fruit  drinks,  348 

fruit  punch,  349 

fruit  syrup,  349 

grape  juice,  348 

hot  chocolate,  347 

iced  tea,  347 

instantaneous  coffee,  345 

other  fruit  juices,  349 

punch  accompaniments,  349 

quick  lemonade,  348 

raspberry  vinegar,  349 

Russian  tea,  346 

serving  coffee,  346 

tea,  346 

tea  punch,  346 
Biscuits, 

drop,  243 

sour  cream,  243 

sour  milk,  244 

tea,  238 

Birds'  nests,  115 
Bisque  ice  cream,  206 
Black-bean  soup,  39 
Blackberries,  stewed,  31v3 

canned,  326 
Blackberry  jelly,  336 
Blanc  mange,  184 
Blanquette  of  chicken,  1^>4 
Blueberry  cake,  258 
Bohemian  houska,  232 
Boiled  custard,  181 

dinner,  374 

frosting,  272 
Boiling  meat,  60 
Bombe  glace,  204 
Boston  brown  bread,  2.30,  387 

roast,  124 

Bouillon,  30,  31,  370  397 
Braising  meat,  61 
Bread,  in  fireless,  386 
Bread,  hot  cakes,  221-250 

baking,  222 

baking  powder,  222 

Boston  brown,  230,  387 

Canada  egg,  229 

coarse  loaf,  230 

cocoa,  229 


454 


INDEX 


Bread,  corn,  228 

crumbs,  96 

gluten,  227 

Graham,  225,  387 

in  bread  mixer,  221 

kneading,  221 

making,  221 

milk,  224 

nut,  228 

oatmeal,  226 

pudding,  192,  391 

pulled,  42 

raisin,  229 

rice,  225 

rusk,  235 

rye,  227 

salt  raising,  225 

sauce,  100 

Scotch  short,  230 

sticks,  246 

white,  223,  224 

whole  wheat,  226 

yeast,  222 
Breakfasts,  414 
Bridgp-^hist  pudding,  188 
Brioche,  234 
Broiling,  59 
Broth,  lamb,  353 
Brown  Betty,  193 

bread,  230,  387 

bread  pudding,  195 

sauce,  99  r 

sugar  sauce,  216 
Browned  soup  stock,  367 
Browning  for  sauces,  106 
Brussels  sprouts,  139 
Buckwheat  cakes,  247,  248 
Buns,  236,  237 

cinnamon,  231 

English  Bath,  236 

hot  cross,  237 

sweet  French,  236 
Butter,  apple,  334 

lemon,  314 

peach,  334 
Butter  cake,  257 
Butter  scotch,  303 


Cabbage,  138,  380 
creamed,  139 
farmer's,  133 


Cabbage,  lady,  138 

with  pork,  138 
Cafe  frappe,  210 

parfait,  211 
Cake,  in  fireless,  388 
Cakes,  253-274 

almond  rock  cakes,  267 

angel  cake,  255,  388 

apple  cake,  233 

A-P's,  269 

Belgrader  bread,  267 

berry  cake,  258 

butter  cake,  257 

chocolate  cakes,  268 

chocolate  drop  cakes,  266 

Christmas  cake,  389 

chocolate  wafers,  269 

cinnamon,  231 

cinnamon  sweet  cake,  261 

cocoanut  cake,  260 

cocoanut  macaroons,  268 

coffee,  234 

coffee  loaf  cake,  262 

cookies,  271         > 

cornstarch  cake,  259 

cream  sponge,  256 

crisp  gingerbread,  270 

crullers,  270 

cup  cakes,  265 

currant  drop  cakes,  266 

devils'  food,  264 

drop  cakes,  265 

Dutch,  232 

economical  fruit  cake,  260 

farmers'  fruit  cake,  259 

fruit  jumbles,  271 

gingerbread,  263,  389 

ginger  drop  cakes,  266 

ginger  snaps  I,  269 

ginger  snaps  II,  269 

gold  cake,  257 

jelly  roll,  256 

jumbles,  270 

kisses,  272 

lady  cake,  261 

lemon  cake,  259 

macaroons,  268 

marble  cake,  262 

marshmallow  cake,  261 

meringues,  271 

mocha  torte,  264 

mock  pound  cake,  260 

molasses  cake,  263 


455 


INDEX 


Cakes,  Moravian,  235 

nut  cake,  389 

nut  macaroons,  268 

oat  cakes,  266 

oat  cookies,  267 

one-egg  fruit  cake,  260 

orange  cake,  257 

orange  gingerbread,  270 

patriotic  cake,  264 

peanut  cakes,  271 

peggy  cake,  257 

peppernuts,  267 

plain  cake,  258 

potato-flour  cake,  256 

pound  cake,  257 

sand  tarts,  271 

shellbark  cake,  258 

short  cake,  200,  284 

silver  cake,  258 

simple  layer  cake,  259 

snippy-doodle,  263 

sour-milk  cake,  389 

Spanish  bun  I,  265 

Spanish  bun  II,  265 

sponge  cake  I,  255,  388 

sponge  cake  II,  255,  388 

sponge  cake  III,  256 

sponge  ginger  cake,  263  ^ 

surprise  cake,  262 

white  cup  cake,  261 
Calf's  foot  jelly,  358 

head,  baked";  70 

liver,  braised,  72 

liver,  broiled,  72 

liver,  stewed,  73 

liver,  stuffed,  73 

liver  with  cream  sauce,  71 
Calories,  418 
Canada  egg  bread,  227 
Canapes,  25 

anchovy,  25 

Caviar,  25 

cheese,  25 

ham,  25 

Candied  lemon  and  orange  peel,  306 
Candy,  301,  406 

butter  scotch,  303 

candied  lemon  and  orange  peel,  306 
chocolate  caramels,  304 
chocolate  creams,  302 
chocolate  cream  mints,  302 
chocolate  fudge,  304 
cinnamon  candy,  303 


Candy,  cocoa  fudge,  304 

cocoanut  butter  scotch,  304 

cocoanut  cones,  307 

cream  peppermints,  305 

divinity,  306 

fondant,  301 

fruits  glace,  305 

hoarhound  candy,  307 

Karo  candy,  307 

marshmallows,  306 

Mexican  caramels,  305 

molasses  candy  I,  302 

molasses  candy  II,  303 

nougat,  302 

nuts  glace,  305 

orange  paste,  306 

peanut  brittle,  303 

pinoche,  303 

pop-corn  balls,  305 

pralines.  304 

quick  fondant,  301 

walnut  kisses,  308 
Canned  blackberries,  326 

blueberries,  326 

cherries,  326 

crab  apples,  328 

currants,  326 

gooseberries,  327 

grapes,  326 

mushrooms,  329 

peach  pudding,  195 

peaches,  327 

pears,  328 

pineapple,  328 

plums,  327  E 

quinces,  328 

raspberries,  325 

raspberries  and  currants,  326 

rhubarb,  327 

tomatoes,  329 
Canning  and  preserving,  323 

cold-pack  method,  318 

fruits,  321,  324 

open-kettle  method,  323 

vegetables,  321,  328 
Canvas-back  ducks,  403 
Caper  sauce,  103 
Caramel,  96 

custard,  186 

ice  cream,  206 

sauce,  215 
Caramels,  chocolate,  304 

Mexican,  305 
466 


INDEX 


Carrots,  143,  381 

and  peas,  143,  381 
Casserole  cookery,  409 

baked  beans  en  casserole,  411 

beefsteak  en  casserole,  410 

brown  fricassee  of  oysters,  411 

casserole  hash,  411 

casserole  roast,  410 

chicken  en  casserole,  409 

chicken  in  ramekins,  412 

eggs  in  ramekins,  412 

halibut  au  gratin,  412 

lamb  en  casserole,  410 

macaroni  in  ramekins,  411 

rice  in  ramekins,  411 

salmon  au  gratin,  412 

scalloped  oysters  in  ramekins,  41 1 

shin  meat  en  casserole,  412 
Catsups,  grape,  341 

mushroom,  341 

tomato,  340 
Cauliflower,  139,  381 

au  gratin,  139 

creamed,  139 

polonaise,  139 

salad,  174 
Caviar  canapes,  25 

sandwiches,  290 
Celery,  cream  of,  33 

creamed,  144,  381 

sauce,  104 
Cereals,  295,  364 

baked  apple  with  oatmeal,  296 

barley  mush,  365 

boiled  rice.  297,  366 

breakfast  foods,  366 

cereals  in  fireless,  364 

cooking  cereals,  295,  364 

corn-meal  mush,  296,  365 

cracked  wheat,  365 

cream  of  wheat,  367 

farina,  297 

fried  mush,  296 

graham  mush,  365 

hominy,  297,  365 

left-over  cereals,  298 

oatmeal  porridge,  295,  366 

oatmeal  with  cheese,  296 

rice  and  figs,  366 

rice  in  milk,  297 

rolled  wheat,  366 

wheat  cereals,  296 
Chafing-dish  cookery,  397 


Chafing-dish  cookery,  apple  dainty, 
406 

beef  chauffe,  405 

bouillon,  397 

candy,  406 

canvas-back  ducks,  403 

cheese  scramble,  400 

chicken  hollandaise,  398 

clam  and  egg  scramble,  403 

clam  toast,  403 

clams  a  la  creine,  402 

crab  a,  la  creme,  403 

cream  of  tomato,  398 

creamed  oysters  and  celery,  401 

creamed  sardines,  404 

curried  eggs,  399 

deviled  lobster,  402 

deviled  meat,  405 

English  monkey,  398 

fig  dainty,  406 

frizzle-dizzle,  404 

frog  saddles,  404 

lobster  a  la  creme,  402 

lobster  stew,  402 

macaroni  milanaise,  405 

macaroni  rarebit,  399 

Mexican  rarebit,  399 

Mt.  Clemens  rarebit,  399 

mushrooms  with  bacon,  405 

oyster  pan-roast,  401 

panned  oysters,  401 

pigs  in  blankets,  401 

quail,  404 

rinktum  ditty,  398 

roasted  oysters,  401 

salted  almonds,  406 

sardine  savory,  403 

shrimp  a  la  crdme,  403 

shrimp  wiggle,  397 

stirred  eggs,  400 

stock  scramble,  400 

terrapin,  400 

tomato  curry,  405 

tomato  scramble,  400 

veal  with  asparagus  tips,  404 

Welsh  rarebit,  398 
Charlotte  russe,  189 
Cheese,  119 

cake,  282 

canapes,  25 

cottage,  124 

filling  for  sandwiches,  291 

omelet,  113 


457 


INDEX 


Cheese,  rolls,  126 

scramble,  400 

souffle,  126 

soup,  36 

straws,  292 
Cherries,  canned,  326 

pickled,  333 

preserved,  330 

stewed,  313 
Cherry  conserve,  331 

mousse,  211 

pie,  282,  393 

pudding,  392 

sauce  for  ices,  212 

tapioca,  191 
Chestnuts,  150 

boiled,  150 

roasted,  150 
Chicken  a  la  crane,  162 

a  la  king,  162 

and  oysters,  87 

barbecued,  86 

blanquette  of,  134 

broiled,  85 

broth,  30 

croquettes,  163 

curry,  374 

en  casserole,  409 

forcemeat,  93 

fricassee,  86,  374 

fried,  86 

giblets,  84 

gumbo,  37 

hollandaise,  398 

in  ramekins,  412 

patties,  162 

pie,  86,  375 

planked,  85 

roast,  84,  375 

salad,  169 

soup,  368 

stew,  85,  375 

terrapin,  87 
Child,  444 

diet  for,  442 

height,  weight,  age,  442 
Children's  rusk,  235 
Chile  bisque,  32 
Chili  sauce,  340 
Chocolate  cakes,  264 

caramels,  304 

charlotte,  190 

cream  mints,  302 


Chocolate  creams,  302 
devils'  food,  264 
drop  cakes,  266 
eclairs,  199 
filling,  273 
frappS,  210 
frosting,  273 
fudge,  304 
hot,  347 
ice  cream,  206 
nectar,  347 
parfait,  211 
pudding,  183 
sauce,  217 
syrup,  347 
wafers,  269 
Chop  suey,  66 
Chowder, 
clam,  41 
corn,  41 

Christmas  cake,  389 
Cinnamon  bun,  231 
cake,  231 
candy,  303 
sweet  cake,  261 
toast,  291 

Citron  preserve,  333 
Clam  and  egg  scramble,  403 
bouillon,  3i 
chowder,  41 
cocktail,  24 
fritters,  51 
soup,  32 
toast,  403 
Clams,  50 

a  la  creme,  402 
creamed,  51 
panned,  53 
Club  sandwich,  291 
Coarse  loaf,  230 
Cocktails,  23-25 
clam,  24 
grapefruit,  24 
lobster,  23 
mixed  fruit,  24 
oyster,  23 
peach,  25 

pineapple  and  banana,  24 
raspberry,  24 
strawberry,  24 
Cocoa,  347 
bread,  229 
fudge,  304 


458 


INDEX 


Cocoa,  sauce,  218 

for  lunch  room,  449 
Cocoanut  butter  scotch,  304 

cake,  260 

cones,  307 

cornstarch,  183 

custard,  282 

filling,  274 

junket,  183 

macaroons,  268 

tapioca,  185 
Codfish,  49 

balls,  50,  371 

kedgaree,  115 
Coffee,  345 

cake,  234 

ice  cream,  206 

in  bulk,  346 

instantaneous,  345  . 

jelly,  187 

loaf  cake,  262 

serving,  346 
Cold  slaw,  173 

slaw  dressing,  173 
Cold  pack  method,  318 
Colored  Mayonnaise,  168 
Collation,  evening,  20 
Combination  salad,  171 

sherbet,  209 

sandwich,  291 

Combinations  for  menu-making,  80 
Consomme,  30 
Cooked  dressing,  168 
Cookery, 

casserole,  409-413 

chafing  dish,  397-406 

fireless,  363-393 

invalid,  353-360 

principles  of,  3-8 
Cookies,  271 
Cooking,  methods  of,  6,  59-61 

by  fireless,  363 

purpose  of,  5 
Cordial,  350 
Corn  and  cheese  souffle,  125 

baked,  381 

baked  with  tomatoes,  381 

boiled  green,  382 

bread,  228 

bread  with  yeast,  228 

chowder,  41 

cream  of,  34 

griddle  cakes,  248 


Corn  meal  mush,  296,  365 

muffins,  242 

muffins  with  yeast,  242 

off  the  cob,  148 

on  the  cob,  148 

pudding,  149 

soup,  368 

succotash,  149 
Corned  beef,  64,  372 

beef  hash,  132 
Cornstarch  cake,  259 

pudding,  182 
Cottage  cheese,  124 

pudding,  192,  391 
Course  dinner,  16 
Crab  a  la  creme,  403 
Crabs,  deviled,  54 
Cracked  wheat,  365 
Cracker  gruel,  354 
Crackers,  soaked,  357 

baked  with  cheese,  125 
Cranberries,  stewed,  313 
Cranberry  frappe,  210 

sauce,  104 

tart,  281 
Cream,  almond,  185 

for  puffs,  199 

of  asparagus  soup,  33 

of  celery  soup,  33,  369 

of  corn  soup,  34 

of  lettuce  soup,  34 

of  pea  soup,  33,  370 

of  potato  soup,  32 

of  spinach  soup,  34 

of  tomato  soup,  33 

of  tomato  sauce,  102 

of  wheat,  367 

peppermints,  305 

puffs,  199 

sauce,  100,  215 

sponge,  256 

stock,  30 

toast,  357 

Cream  dressing,  168 
Creamed  frizzled  beef,  69 

hash,  132 
Croquettes,  chicken,  163 

fish,  134 

meat,  164 

potato,  152 

rice,  164 
Croutons,  41 
Crullers,  270 


459 


INDEX 


Crumb  griddle  cakes,  248 
Crust  for  pies,  277,  278,  279 
Cucumber  salad,  173 
Cucumbers,  stuffed,  155 
Cup  cakes,  265 

custards,  186 
Currants,  spiced,  332 

Currant  drop  cakes,  266 

ice,  208 

jdly,  336 

tea-ring,  233 
Curry  of  beef,  131 

of  lamb,  132 

of  rabbit,  164 

of  tomato,  405 

of  veal,  70,  377 

sauce,  101 

disk  a  la  creme,  134 
Custard,  181,  358 

boiled,  181 

caramel,  186 

cup,  186 

pie,  281,  393 

sauce,  215 

tapioca,  185 
Cutlets,  134 

fish,  134 


Dandelions,  141 

Date  and  fig  sandwiches,  288 

sponge,  198 
Delicate  pudding,  190 
Desserts  and  puddings,  181-200 

in  fireless,  390-393 

frozen,  203-212 

see  puddings,  181 
Deviled  crabs,  54 

eggs,  171 

meat,  405 
Devils'  food,  264 
Diagram  of  cuts  of  beef,  58 

of  cuts  of  lamb  and  mutton,  61 

of  cuts  of  pork,  76 

of  cuts  of  veal,  71 
Diet  for  the  school  child,  445-448 

for  weight  control,  437-442 

rules  for  balancing,  430 
Dinner,  11-18 

formal,  13 

informal,  18 

menus,  15,  16 

rolls,  239 


Dinner,  without  meat,  120,  121 
Divinity,  306 

frosting,  273 
Doughnuts,  231,  270 
Drawn  butter,  101 
Dressing,  for  roast,  94,  95 

for  salad,  167-169 
Dried  beans  and  peas,  142 

beans  saute,  123 

fruits,  313,  390 

peas,  beans,  lentils,  121 
Drippings,  95 
Drop  biscuit,  243 

cakes,  265,  266 

dumplings,  249 
Duck,  roast,  87 

mock,  65 

salmi,  164 
Dumplings,  baked  apple,  280 

drop,  249 

rolled,  249 
Dutch  cake,  232 


Economical  fruit  cake,  260 

ice  cream,  204 

short  cake,  284 

soup,  38 
Economy,  8 
Egg  and  olive  sandwiches,  290 

gruel,  354 

lemonade,  348 

milk-shake,  357 

muffins,  243 

salad,  172 

sandwiches,  289 

sauce,  100,  216 

toast,  291 
Eggplant,  baked,  147 

broiled,  148 

fried,  147 
Eggs,  109-116 

bacon  and,  78 

baked  a  la  Martin,  114 

baked  omelet,  113 

Beauregard,  115 

birds'  nests,  115 

boiled,  109 

cheese  omelet,  113 

coddled,  109 

codfish  omelet,  113 

corn  omelet,  112 

crumb  omelet,  112 


460 


INDEX 


Eggs,  curried,  110,  399 

deviled,  171 

fried,  109 

golden  buck,  114 

griddled,  110 

ham  and,  77 

ham  omelet,  111 

in  ramekins,  412 

Japanese,  115 

kedgaree,  115 

ox  eyes,  114 

oyster  omelet,  113 

plain  omelet,  110 

poached,  109 

rice  omelet,  111 

savory  omelet  I,  111 

savory  omelet  II,  111 

scambled,  110 

shirred,  110 

Spanish,  116 

stirred,  400 

sweet  omelet,  112 

tomato  omelet,  112 

Welsh  rarebit,  114 

with  almonds,  128 
Energy  requirements,  424,  425 
English  Bath  buns,  236 

monkey,  398 

muffins,  240 

plum  pudding,  194 

scones,  238 
Entertaining,  11 
Entrees,  159 

apple  fritters,  159 

banana  fritters,  160 

beef  kromeskies,  1601 

chicken  a  la  crane,  162 

chicken  a  la  king,  162 

chicken  croquettes,  163 

chicken  patties,  162 

curried  rabbit,  164 

fritter  batter,  159 

ham  patties,  162 

meat  croquettes,  164 

meat  patties,  162 

oyster  fritters,  169 

patty  shells,  163 

rice  timbales,  161 

rissoles,  160 

Roman  gnocchi,  160 

salmi  of  game,  164 

timbale  cases,  161 

timbale  of  macaroni,  161 


,461 


Entries,  vegetable  fritters,  159 

vol-au-vent,  163 
Evening  collation,  20 


Farina,  297 
Fanners'  cabbage,  133 

fruit  cake,  259 
Fig  dainty,  406 

dessert,  191 

filling,  274 

pudding,  391 

sandwiches,  288 
Figs,  359,  390 
Filipino  beef,  67 
Filling,  cake, 

cocoanut,  274 

chocolate,  273 

fig,  274 

fruit,  274 

lemon,  274 

marshmallow,  274 

orange,  274 
Fireless  cookery,  363-393 

bread  and  biscuits,  386,  387 

cereals,  364-367 

cakes,  388,  389 

desserts,  391-393 

fish,  370-372 

fruits,  390 

meats,  372-378  , 

soups,  367-370'* 

vegetables,  379-385 
Fish,  45-54,  370 

baked,  51,  371 

baked  fillets  of  halibut,  49 

baked  shad,  48 

boiled,  46 

boiled  salmon,  372 

broiled,  47 

broiled  oysters,  53 

clams,  50 

clam  fritters,  51 

cleaning,  46 

codfish,  49 

codfish  balls,  50,  371 

creamed  clams,  51 

[creamed  oysters,  52 

creamed  salmon,  50 

croquettes,  134 

cusk  a  la  creme,  134 

cutlets,  134 

deviled  crabs,  54 


INDEX 


Fish,  forcemeat  for  baked,  94 

fried,  47 

fried  oysters,  51 

fried  scallops,  50 

fried  smelts,  49 

frogs,  54 

lake  trout,  371 

lobster,  53,  402 

oyster  pie,  51 

oyster  stew,  52 

panned  oysters,  53 

planked  halibut,  48 

planked  lobster,  54 

planked  shad,  48 

salmon  surprise,  50 

salt-fish  dinner,  49 

scalloped  oysters,  52 

scalloped  salmon,  371 

shad  roe,  48 

shirred  oysters,  52 

stewed  terrapin,  53 

terrapin,  53 

turbot,  372 

white  fish,  371 
Fish,  in  fireless,  370 
Flaxseed  tea,  355 
Flowering  ice  cream,  204 
Foamy  sauce,  217 
Fondant,  301 
Food  groups,  4,  419 
Food  as  fuel,  3 
Food  values,  3;  417 
Foods,  served  in  place  of  meats, 
Forcemeats,  stuffings,  etc.,  93 

beef  forcemeat,  94 

bread  stuffing,  95 

caramel,  96 

chicken  forcemeat,  93 

drippings,  95 

ham  forcemeat,  93 

oyster  stuffing,  94 

potato  stuffing,  95 

prepared  bread  crumbs,  96 

quenelles,  93 

stuffing  for  baked  fish,  94 

suetine,  95 

veal  forcemeat,  94 
Frappe",  210 
French  dressing,  169 

tart,  280 
Fricasseeing,  61 
Fritter  batter,  159 
Fritters,  apple,  159 


119 


Fritters,  banana,  160 

beef  kromeskies,  160 

oyster,  159 

vegetable,  159 
Frizzle-dizzle,  404 
Frizzled  beef,  69 
Frog  saddles,  404 
Frogs,  54 
Frosting,  cake,  272,  273 

boiled,  272 

chocolate,  273 

divinity,  273 

maple  sugar,  273 

ornamental,  272 

plain,  272 
Frozen  cherries,  208 

cocoanut  custard,  205 

custard,  205 

fruits,  208 

peaches,  208 

pudding,  205 

raspberries,  208 

strawberries,  208 
Frozen  desserts,  203-212 

bisque  ice  cream,  206 

bombe  glace,  204 

cafe  frappe,  210 

cafe  parfait,  211 

caramel  ice  cream,  206 

cherry  mousse,  211 

chocolate  frappe,  210 

chocolate  ice  cream,  206 

chocolate  parfait,  211 

coffee  ice  cream,  206 

combination  sherbet,  209 

cranberry  frappe,  210 

currant  ice,  208 

economical  ice  cream,  204 

flowering  ice  cream,  204 

frozen  cherries,  208 

frozen  cocoanut  custard,  205 

frozen  custard,  205 

frozen  peaches,  208 

frozen  pudding,  205 

frozen  raspberries,  208 

frozen  strawberries,  208 

fruit  granite,  209 

ginger  frappe,  210 

grape-fruit  frappe,  210 

grape  sherbet,  209 

lemon  ice,  207 

lemon  ice  cream,  207 

lemon  sherbet,  209 


462 


INDEX 


Frozen  desserts,  making,  203 

maple  mousse,  212 

meringues  glace"es,  205 

mousse,  211 

orange  ice,  207 

orange  pekoe  sherbet,  210 

orange  sherbet,  209 

peach  ice  cream,  207 

pineapple  ice,  208 

pineapple  ice  cream,  207 

pineapple  mousse,  212 

strawberry  ice  cream,  207 

tutti-frutti  ice  cream,  206 

vanilla  ice  cream  I,  204 

vanilla  ice  cream  II,  204 
Fruit,  311 

and  nut  salad,  175 

cake,  259,  260 

cocktail,  24 

dried,  313,  390,  391 

drinks,  348 

filling,  274 

granite,  209 

juices,  349 

jumbles,  271 

preserving,  329 

prunes,  391 

punch,  349 

pyramids,  176 

salad,  175 

sandwiches,  288 

sauce,  216 

syrup,  349 
Fruits  glace,  305 
Frying,  60 
Fudge,  304 


Game,  83-90 
Giblet  sauce,  99 
Giblets,  84 
Ginger  drop  cakes,  266 

frappe,  210 

snaps,  269 

sponge,  263 
Gingerbread,  263,  389 

crisp,  270 

orange,  270 
Gluten  bread,  227 

gems,  244 
Gold  cake,  257 
Golden  buck,  114 
Gooseberries,  canned,  327 


Graham  bread,  225,  387 

muffins,  240 

mush,  365 

puffs,  244 

wafers,  243 
Grapes,  canned,  326 
Grape-fruit  and  pineapple  salad,  177 

cocktail,  24 

frappe,  210 

marmalade,  331 

salad,  177 
Grape  jelly,  336 

catsup,  341 

juice,  348 

sherbet,  209 
Green-grape  jelly,  336 
Green  peppers,  stuffed,  147 

tomato  sauce,  339 
Griddle  cakes,  246-248 

buckwheat,  247 

corn,  248 

crumb,  248 

oatmeal,  246 

rice,  248 

wheat,  246 
Grouse,  roasted,  89 
Gruel, 

arrowroot,  355 

cracker,  354 

egg,  354 

Indian,  354 

oatmeal,  353 

sago,  354 

Guests,  seating  the,  14 
Guinea  fowls,  88 
Guiso,  66 
Gumbo,  35 


Half  puff-paste,  278 
Halibut  au  gratin,  412 

baked  fillets  of,  49 

planked,  48 
Ham  and  eggs,  77 

baked,  77 

boiled,  76,  376 

broiled,  77 

canapes,  25 

forcemeat,  93 

frizzled,  77 

patties,  162 

stewed,  77 
Hamburg  steak,  68 


463 


INDEX 


Hard  sauce,  218 
Haricot  of  mutton,  74 
Hash,  131,  132 

baked,  131,  376 

corned  beef,  132 

creamed,  132 
Health  pie,  284 
Hints  on  serving,  17 
Hoarhound  candy,  307 
Hollandaise  sauce,  101 
Home  lunches,  449 
Hominy,  297,  365 

pudding,  184 
Horseradish  sauce,  102 
Hot  cakes,  246-249 

chocolate  sauce,  217 

cross  buns,  237 
Huckleberry  pudding,  197 
Hungarian  goulash,  67 
Hundred  calorie  portions,  433,  434 

I 

Ice  creams  and  ices,  203 
Icing,  272 
Imperial  sticks,  42 
India  curry,  70 
Indian  gruel,  354 

baked  pudding,  196 

boiled  pudding,  197 
Informal  dinner,  18 
Introductions,  13 
Invalid  cookery,  353 

albumenized  water,  356 

arrowroot,  355 

arrowroot  water,  355 

beef  pats,  360 

beef  tea,  353 

calf's  foot  jelly,  358 

chicken  panada,  360 

cracker  gruel,  354 

cream  toast,  357 

custard,  358 

egg  gruel,  354 

egg  milk-shake,  357 

flaxseed  tea,  355 

French  panada,  356 

Indian  gruel,  354 

koumiss,  359 

lamb  broth,  353 

lemon  foam,  358 

lemon  whey,  358 

milk  toast  I,  356 

milk  toast  II,  357 


Invalid  cookery,  oatmeal  gruel  I,  353 

oatmeal  gruel  II,  354 

oysters  on  toast,  360 

panada,  356 

potatoes  on  the  half-shell,  359 

rice  water,  356 

sago  gruel,  354 

soaked  crackers,  357 

squabs  or  any  small  birds,  360 

stewed  figs,  359 

sunshine  orange,  357 

tapioca,  359 

toast  water,  355 

whipped  apple  sauce,  358 
Invitations,  12 
Irish  stew,  75,  375 


Japan  sandwiches,  290 
Jellies,  334-336 
Jelly,  coffee,  187 
'f  apple,  335 

blackberry,  336 

currant,  336 

green-grape,  336 

lemon,  187 

mint,  335 

plum,  336 

quince,  335 

raspberry  and  currant,  336 

raspberry,  336 

ripe-grape,  336 

roll,  256 

sauce,  104 

strawberry,  336 

whipped,  187 
Jelly  making,  334 
Jiffy  pudding,  200 
Joyful  pudding,  189 
Julienne  soup,  38 
Jumbles,  270 
Junket,  cocoanut,  183 


K 


Kale,  140] 
Karo  candy,  307 
Kedgaree,  115 
Kidneys,  79 
Kisses,  272 

walnut,  308 
Kneading,  221 
Kohl-rabi,  143 
Koumiss,  359 


464 


INDEX 


Lady  cabbage,  138 

cake,  261 

Lake  trout,  baked,  371 
Layer  cake,  259 
Lamb,  boiled  leg  of,  376 

boiling,  60 

broiling,  59 

broth,  353 

chops,  roasted,  376 

curry  of,  132 

cuts  of,  74 

en  casserole,  410 

fricasseeing,  61,  376 

frying,  60 

roasting,  59,  376 
Leeks,  141 
Left-overs,  131-134 

baked  hash,  131 

blanquette  of  chicken,  134 

corned-beef  hash,  132 

creamed  hash,  132 

curry  of  beef,  131  $ 

curry  of  lamb,  132 

cusk  a  la  creme,  134 

farmers'  cabbage,  133 

fish  croquettes,  134 

fish  cutlets,  134 

mock  venison,  132 

potted  meat,  133 

scalloped  beef,  132 

scalloped  fish,  134 

serving  left-overs,  131 

stew  from  cold  meat,  133 

veal  cakes,  133 
Left-over  cereals,  to  use,  298 
Lemon  butter,  314 

cake,  259 

candied  peel,  306 

cream  pie,  281 

filling,  274 

foam,  358 

ice,  207 

ice  cream,  207 

jelly,  187 

meringue  pie,  280 

pie,  393 

sauce,  217 

sherbet,  209 

whey,  358 
Lemonade,  348 
Lentil  soup,  370 


Lentils  a  la  Creole,  122 

baked,  122 

Lettuce  and  cream-cheese  sandwiches, 
289 

and  walnut  sandwiches,  289 

boiled,  140 

cream  of,  34 

salad,  170 
Lima  beans.  142,  382 

puree,  382 
Liver,  71-73 

and  bacon,  72 

braised,  72 

broiled,  72  j 

stewed,  73 

stuffed  calf's,  73 
Lobster,  53 

a  la  creme,  402 

cocktail,  23 

deviled,  402 

salad,  170 

stew,  402 

to  clean,  53 
Lunch  rolls,  239 
Luncheons,  11,  16 
Lunches, 

basket,  447 

home,  447 

picnic,  287 

school,  445 

M 

Macaroni,  baked,  125,  385 

boiled,  155 

in  ramekins,  411 

milanaise,  405 

rarebit,  399 

with  cheese,  125,  386 

with  tomatoes,  386 
Macaroons,  268 

cocoanut,  268 

nut,  268 

Maitre  d'hotel  butter,  101 
Maple  mousse,  112 

sugar  frosting,  273 
Marble  cake,  262 
Marine  salad,  175 
Marketing,  8 
Marmalades,  331 

grape-fruit,  331 

orange,  332 
Marshmallow  cake,  261 

filling,  274 


INDEX 


Marshmallows,  306 
Mayonnaise  dressing,  167 

colored,  168 

mock,  168 

white,  168 

Meals,  menus  for  a  week's,  414,  432 
Meat  croquettes,  164 

filling  for  sandwiches,  287 

patties,  162 

pot-pie,  78 

sandwiches,  287 
Meat  substitutes,  110-128 

almonds  with  eggs,  128 

baked  beans,  123 

baked  crackers  with  cheese,  125 

baked  lentils,  122 

baked  macaroni  with  cheese,  125 

baked  rice,  126 

beans,  Mexican,  124 

Boston  roast,  124 

cheese  rolls,  126 

cheese  souffle,  126 

corn  and  cheese  souffle,  125 

cottage  cheese,  124 

dinners  without  meat,  120 

dried  beans  saute,  123 

dried  peas,  beans,  lentils,  121 

English  rice,  126 

foods  served  in  place  of  meat,  119 

lentils  a  la  Creole,  122 

migas,  125 

nut  and  cheese  relish,  177 

nut  and  fruit  cheese,  127 

nut  roast,  127 

nut  souffle,  128 

peanut  butter,  127 

pimiento  roast,  124 

puree  of  dried  beans,  123 

vegetable  meat  pie,  128 
Meats,  57,  372 

methods  of  cooking,  59-61 

purchasing,  57 

various  cuts,  58,  71,  74,  76 

in  fireless,  372 
Menu  and  table,  15 

for  full  course  dinner,  15,  16 
Menu  making,  combinations  for,  80 
Menus,  15,  16 

for  dinners  without  meat,  120 

for  a  week,  414,  432,  452 
Meringues,  271 

glacees,  205 
Mexican  beef,  66 


466 


Mexican  caramels,  305 

rarebit,  399 
Migas,  125 
Milk  bread,  224 

toast,  356 

Milk-shake,  egg,  357 
Mince-meat,  283 
Mint  jelly,  335 

sauce,  100 
Mixed  fruit  cocktail,  24 

pickle  dressing,  339 

pickles,  339 
Mixing,  cake,  253 
Mocha  Torte,  264 
Mock  charlotte,  183 

crab  sandwiches,  290 

cream,  218 

duck,  65 

Mayonnaise,  168 

pound  cake,  260 

rabbit,  65 

turtle,  35 

venison,  132 
Molasses  cake,  263 

candy,  302,  303 
Molletfe,  249 
Moravian  cake,  235 
Mt.  Clements  rarebit,  399 
Mountain-dew  pudding,  186 
Mousse,  211 
Muffins,  240,  243 

corn,  242 

egg,  243 

English,  240 

Graham,  240 

oatmeal,  241 

rice,  242 

Sally  Lunn,  241 

wheat,  241 
Mullagatawny,  37 
Mush,  296 

barley,  365 

cornmeal,  296 

fried,  296 

graham,  365 
Mushroom  catsup,  341 

sauce,  103 
Mushrooms  a  la  poulette,  150 

baked,  150 

broiled,  149 

stewed,  149 

with  bacon,  405 
Mutton,  boiling,  60 


INDEX 


Mutton,  braising,  61 
broiling,  59 
chops  with  peas,  75 
cuts  of,  74 
haricot  of,  74 
Irish  stew,  75,  375 
leg  of,  376 
mock  venison,  132 
pot-pie,  78 
purchasing,  73 
ragout  of,  75 
roasting,  59 
shoulder,  boiled,  74 
shoulder,  stuffed,  73 
soup,  36 

N 

Nasturtium  salad,  172 
Nasturtium  seeds,  pickled,  341 
Newmarket  pudding,  194 
Noodle  soup,  39 
Normandy  salad,  175 
Nougat,  302 
Novel  tomato  salad,  171 
Nut  and  cheese  relish,  177 

and  fruit  cheese,  127 

and  raisin  sandwiches,  288 

bread,  228 

butter,  127 

cake,  389 

macaroons,  268 

roast,  127 

sandwiches,  288 

souffle",  128 
Nuts  glace,  305 

0 
Oat  cakes,  266 

cookies,  267 
Oatmeal,  295,  366 

bread,  226 

griddle  cakes,  246 

gruel,  353,  354 

muffins,  241 

porridge,  295 

with  baked  apple,  296 

with  cheese,  296 
October  salad,  176 
Okra,  147 

Olive  sandwiches,  288 
Omelet,  baked,  113 

cheese,  113 

codfish,  113 

corn,  112 


Omelet,  crumb,  112 
ham,  111 
oyster,  113 
plain,  110 
rice,.lll 
'savory,  111 
sweet,  112 
tomato,  112 
One-egg  cake,  260 

waffles,  245 

Onions,  boiled,  144,  382 
fried,  145 
scalloped,  145 
stewed,  144 

Open-kettle  method,  323 
Orange  cake,  257 
filling,  274 
gingerbread,  270 
ice,  207 

marmalade,  332 
paste,  306 
pekoe  sherbet,  210 
pudding,  184 
sauce,  105 
sherbet,  209 

Ornamental  frosting,  272 
Oven  scones,  237 
Overweight,  causes  of,  437 
Ox  eyes,  114 
Ox-tail  soup,  36 
Oyster  bouillon,  31 
cocktail,  23 
fritters,  159 
pan-roast,  401 
pie,  51 
sauce,  103 
soup,  31 
stew,  52 

Oysters,  broiled,  53 
brown  fricassee  of,  411 
creamed,  52 

creamed  with  celery,  401 
fried,  51 
on  toast,  360 
panned,  53,  401 
roasted,  401 
scalloped,  52,  411 
shirred,  52 


Panada,  356 
chicken,  360 
French,  356 


467 


INDEX 


Puddings  and  desserts,  jiffy  pudding, 
200 

joyful  pudding,  189 

lemon  jelly,  187 

mock  charlotte,  183 

mountain-dew  pudding,  186 

Newmarket  pudding,  194 

orange  pudding,  184 

peach  cobbler,  198 

peach  patties,  195 

peach  pudding,  193 

prune  whip,  189 

queen  of  puddings,  193 

raisin  puff,  194 

realengo,  190 

rice  blanc  mange,  184 

rice  meringue  I,  182 

rice  meringue  II,  182 

rice  pudding,  181 

savarin,  198 

Spanish  cream,  188 

sponge-cake  pudding,  196 

steamed  fruit  pudding,  197 

strawberry  trifle  I,  187 

strawberry  trifle  II,  187 

suet  pudding  I,  195 

suet  pudding  II,  195 

tapioca  custard,  185,  392 

walnut  and  date  dainty,  199 

whipped  jelly,  187 

whips,  189 
Puff-paste,  277 
Pulled  bread,  42 
Pumpkin  pie,  280,  393 
Punch,  346,  349 
•  fruit,  349  • 

five  o'clock,  350 

frozen,  209,  210 

tea,  346 

Purchasing  beef,  62 
Puree  of  dried  beans,  123 
Purpose  of  cooking,  5 

Q 

Quail,  404 

Queen  of  puddings,  193 
Quenelles,  93 
Quince  jelly,  335 
Quinces,  baked,  312 

canned,  328 

stewed,  312 


Rabbit,  88 

curried,  164 

mock,  65 

panned,  88 
Raisin  bread,  229 

compote,  332 

pie,  281 

puff,  194 

Ralston's  breakfast  food,  366 
Rarebit,  114,  398 
Raspberries  and  currants,  326 

canned,  325 

stewed,  313 
Raspberry  and  currant  jelly,  336 

cocktail,  24 

jelly,  336 

sauce,  219 

vinegar,  349 
Rations,  balanced,  417 
Realengo,  190 

Recipe  proportions,  table  of,  250 
Reheating  vegetables,  156 
Relish,  nut  and  cheese,  177 
Rhubarb  pie,  280 

stewed,  313 

Ribbon  sandwiches,  289 
Rice  and  figs,  366 

baked,  126 

blanc  mange,  184 

boiled,  297,  366 

bread,  225 

cakes,  248 

English,  126 

in  milk,  297 

in  ramekins,  411 

meringue,  182 

muffins,  242 

pudding,  181 

water,  356 
Rinktum  ditty,  398 
Ripe-grape  jelly,  336 
Rissoles,  160 
Rhubarb,  stewed,  313 
Roasting,  59 
Rock  cakes,  almond,  267 
Rolled  dumplings,  249 

steak,  65 

wheat,  366 
Rolls,  dinner,  239 

lunch,  239 

Parker  House,  239 
tea,  238 


470 


INDEX 


Roman  gnocchi,  160 
Round  steak  on  biscuits,  373 
Rusk,  235 
Russian  tea,  346 
Rye  bread,  227 


Sago  gruel,  354 

Salad  dressing,  cooked,  168 

dressing,  cream,  168 

dressing,  French,  169 

dressing,  in  large  quantity,  169 

dressing,  Mayonnaise,  167,  168 
Salads,  167 

banana  dainty,  177 

banana  salad,  176 

beet  salad,  173 

cauliflower  salad,  174 

chicken  salad,  169 

cold  slaw,  173 

cold-slaw  dressing,  173 

colored  Mayonnaise,  168 

combination  salad,  171 

cooked     dressing     (mock    Mayon- 
naise), 168 

cream  dressing,  168 

cucumber  salad,  173 

deviled  eggs,  171 

egg  salad,  172 

French  dressing,  169 

fruit  and  nut  salad,  175 

fruit  pyramids,  176 

fruit  salad,  175 

grape-fruit  and  pineapple,  177 

grape-fruit  salad,  177 

lettuce  salad,  170 

lobster  salad,  170 

making  salads,  167 

marine  salad,  175 

Mayonnaise  dressing,  167 

nasturtium  salad,  172 

Normandy  salad,  175 

novel  tomato  salad,  171 

October  salad,  176 

peanut  salad,  176 

pepper  and  cream  cheese  salad,  172 

potato  salad  I,  172 

potato  salad  II,  172 

salad  dressing  in  large  quantity,  169 

sardine  salad,  170 

shrimp  salad,  170 

salmagundi  salad,  174 

salmon  salad,  170 

471 


Salads,  tomato  jelly,  171 

tomato  surprises,  169 

tulip  salad,  177 

walnut  salad,  176 

water-lily  salad,  17* 

watermelon  salad,  175 

white  Mayonnaise,  175 

winter  salad,  174 
Sally  Lunn,  241 
Salmagundi  salad,  174 
Salmi  of  game,  164 
Salmon  au  gratin,  412 

boiled,  372 

creamed,  50 

salad,  170 

scalloped,  371 

surprise,  50 
Salsify,  143 
Salt  fish  dinner,  49 

pork  in  milk,  78 

rising  bread,  225 
Salted  almonds,  292,  406 

peanuts,  292 
Sand  tarts,  271 
Sandwiches,  287 

anchovy,  288 

Bohemian,  287 

caviar,  290 

cheese  filling  for,  291 

club,  291 

combination,  291 

date  and  fig,  288 

egg,  289 

egg  and  olive  I,  290 

egg  and  olive  II,  290 

fig,  288 

fruit,  288 

Japan,  290 

lettuce  and  cream-cheese,  289 

lettuce  and  walnut,  289 

meat,  287 

meat  filling  for,  287 

mock  crab,  290 

nut,  288 

nut  and  raisin,  288 

olive,  288 

ribbon,  289 

sardine,  290 

surprise,  289 

sweet,  289 
Sardine  salad,  170 

sandwiches,  290 

savory,  403 


INDEX 


Sardines,  creamed,  404 
Sauces,  99 

anchovy,  102 

apple,  105 

bechamel,  104 

bread,  100 

brown,  99 

browning  for,  106 

caper,  103 

celery,  104 

cranberry,  104 

cream,  100 

cream,  with  mushrooms,  100 

cream  of  tomato,  102 

curry,  101 

drawn  butter,  101 

egg,  100 

giblet,  99 

Hollandaise,  101 

horseradish,  102 

jelly,  104 

maitre  d'hotel  butter,  101 

mint,  100 

mushroom,  103 

orange,  105 

oyster,  103 

piquante,  100 

supreme,  103 

stewed  cranberries,  104 

sweet,  215 

Tartare,  101 

tomato,  102 

white,  102 
Sauces  to  serve  with  meats,  fish,  etc. 

105 

Sauer  kraut,  384 
Sauteing,  61 
Savarin,  198 
Savories,  287,  292 
Scallops,  fried,  50 
Scones,  237,  238 
School  lunches,  445 
School  lunch  room  bills  of  fare,  448 
Scotch  oat  cake,  244 

short  bread,  230 
Serving,  hints  on,  17 
Shad,  baked,  48 

planked,  48 

roe,  48 

Shellbark  cake,  258 
Sherbets,  209 

Shin  meat  en  casserole,  412 
Short  cake,  fancy,  284 


Short  cake,  plain,  284 

strawberry,  200 
Shrimp  a  la  creme,  403 

salad,  170 

wiggle,  397 
Silver  cake,  258 
Smelts,  fried,  49 
Snippy-doodle,  263 
Souffle,  cheese,  126 

corn  and  cheese,  125 

nut,  128 

Soups,  in  fireless,  367 
Soups,  to  serve  with,  41 

croutons,  41 

imperial  sticks,  42 

pulled  bread,  42 
Soups,  29,  367 

barley,  38 

bean,  368 

beef,  35 

beef  bouillon,  30 

black-bean,  39 

bouillon,  370 

cheese,  36 

chicken  broth,  30 

chicken  gumbo,  37 

chicken  soup,  368 

chile  bisque,  32 

clam,  32 

clam  chowder,  41 

clam  bouillon,  31 

corn  chowder,  41 

corn  soup,  368 

consomme,  30 

cream  of  potato,  32 

cream  of  tomato,  33 

cream  of  pea,  33 

cream  stock,  30 

cream  of  celery,  33,  369 

cream  of  asparagus,  33 

cream  of  corn  I,  34 

cream  of  corn  II,  34 

cream  of  pea,  370 

cream  of  spinach,  34 

cream  of  lettuce,  34 

economical,  38 

gumbo,  35 

Julienne,  38 

lentil,  370 

meat  stock,  29 

mock  turtle,  35 

mullagatawny,  37 

mutton,  36 


472 


INDEX 


Soups,  noodle,  39 

ox-tail,  36 

oyster  bouillon,  31 

oyster  I,  31 

oyster  II,  32 

peapod,  33 

pepper  pot,  37 

pimiento  bisque,  40 

potato,  369 

stock,  29,  30,  367 

tomato,  39,  368 

turkey-bone,  36 

turtle,  369 

vegetable  stock,  29 

vegetable  I,  40,  369 

vegetable  II,  40 

vermicelli,  38 
Sour  beef,  68 

cream  biscuit,  243 

milk  biscuit,  244 

milk  cake,  389 
Spanish  beefsteak,  66 

bun,  265 

cream,  188 
Spiced  currants,  332 

pears,  333 
Spinach,  140,  384 

cream  of,  34 
Sponge  cake,  255,  256,  388 

cake  pudding,  196 

ginger  cake,  263 
Squabs  or  any  small  birds,  360 
Squash,  148,  384 

baked,  148 

pie,  280 

steamed,  148 

Steamed  fruit  pudding,  197 
Stew  from  cold  meat,  133 

Irish,  75 

Stewing  meat,  61 
Stock  for  soup,  29,  30,  367 

cream  stock,  30 

meat,  29 

scramble,  400 

vegetable,  29 
Strawberries  and  pineapple,  330 

preserved,  330 
Strawberries  in  the  sun,  330 
Strawberry  cocktail,  24 

ice  cream,  207 

jelly,  336 

short  cake,  200 

trifle,  187 


473 


String  beans,  384 
Stuffing,  bread,  95 

for  baked  fish,  94 

oyster,  94 

potato,  95 

Substitutes  for  meat,  119-128 
Succotash,  149 
Suetine,  95 
Suet  pudding,  195 
Sunshine  orange,  357 
Supreme  sauce,  103 
Surprise  cake,  262 

sandwiches,  289 
Sweet  French  buns,  236 
Sweet  sandwiches,  289 
Sweet  sauces,  215 

brown-sugar  sauce,  216 

caramel  sauce  I,  215 

caramel  sauce  II,  215 

cherry  sauce  for  ices,  212 

chocolate  sauce,  218 

cream  sauce,  215 

custard  sauce,  215 

egg  sauce,  216 

foamy  sauce,  217 

fruit  sauce,  216 

hard  sauce  I,  218 

hard  sauce  II,  218 

hot  chocolate  sauce  I,  217 

hot  chocolate  sauce  II,  217 

lemon- sauce,  217 

mock  cream,  218 

raspberry  sauce,  217 

table  syrup,  249 

vanilla  sauce,  217 

whipped  cream,  216 
Sweetbreads,  broiled,  79 

in  fireless,  377 

stewed,  79 
Syrup,  chocolate,  347 

table,  249 
Syrups,  fruit,  in  canning,  321 


Table  syrup,  249 

Tables  of  height,  weight,  age, 
for  men  and  women,  441,  442 
for  boys  and  girls.  450,  451 

Table  of  energy  needs,  425 
calorie  portions,  433,  434 
food  nutrients,  4 
recipe  proportions,  250 


Ir-fc 


INDEX 


Tapioca,  359 
and  apples,  392 
custard,  185,  392 
Tart,  Bethlehem,  282 
cranberry,  281 
French,  280 

peach,  283 

sand,  271 

torto  frutas,  279 
Tartlets,  279 
Tartare  sauce,  101 
Tea,  346 

beef,  353 

biscuits,  238,  387 

iced,  347 

punch,  346 

Russian,  346 

rolls,  238 

Tea  ring,  currant,  233 
Terrapin,  53,  400 
Three-egg  waffles,  246 
Timbale  of  macaroni,  161 

cases,  161 

rice,  161 

Time  tables  for  blanching  and  steriliz- 
ing, 323 
Toast,  cinnamon,  291 

cream,  357 

egg,  291 

milk,  356 

water,  355 
Tomato  catsup,  340 

cream  of,  33 

curry,  405 

jelly,  171 

salad  (combination),  171 

salad  (novel),  171 

sauce,  102 

scramble,  464 

soup,  39,  418 

surprise,  169 
Tomatoes,  boiled,  385 

fried,  146 

scalloped,  145 

stewed,  145,  385 

stuffed,  145 
Tongue,  boiled,  69,  377 

smoked,  boiled,  70 
Torto  frutas,  279 
Tripe,  79 
Tulip  salad,  177 
Turbot,  372 
Turkey,  roast,  87 


Turkey,  bone  soup,  36 
Turkish  pilaf,  146 
Turnips,  boiled,  142,  385 
Turtle  soup,  369 
Tutti-frutti,  334 
ice  cream,  206 


Vanilla  ice  cream,  204 

sauce,  217 
Veal  and  rice,  378 

cakes,  133 

calf's  head,  70 

croquettes,  377 

curry  of,  70,  377 

cuts  of,  71 

forcemeat,  94 

India  curry,  70 

liver,  71 

loaf,  70,  378 

pot-pie,  78 

roast,  378 

rolls,  428 

with  asparagus  tips,  404 

with  rice,  378 
Vegetable  fritters,  159 

hash,  155 

meat  pie,  128 

soup,  40,  369 

stock,  29 
Vegetables,  137-156 

in  fireless,  379 

reheating,  156 
Venison,  haunch  of,  roasted,  89 

mock,  132 

neck  and  shoulder,  89 

steak,  90 

Vermicelli  soup,  38 
Vinegar,  celery,  178 

mint,  178 

tarragon,  178 

raspberry,  349 
Vitamins,  420 
Vol-au-vent,  163 

W 

Wafers,  chocolate,  269 

Graham,  243 

perfect  cream,  243 
Waffles,  one  egg,  245 

three  egg,  246 

with  yeast,  245 


474 


INDEX 


Walnut  and  date  dainty,  199 

bread,  228 

kisses,  308 

salad,  176 

Washington  pie,  283 
Water-lily  salad,  174 
Watermelon  salad,  175 
Weight-control,  diet  for,  437 
Weight,  how  to  add,  439 

how  to  reduce,  437 

tables,  441,  450,  451 
Welsh  rarebit,  114,  126,  398 
Wheat  cereals,  296 

griddle  cakes,  246 

muffins,  241 
Whey,  lemon,  358 
Whipped  apple  sauce,  358 
Whipped  cream,  216 
Whipped  jelly,  187 


Whips,  187 

White  bread  in  bread-mixer,  224 

bread,  over  night,  223 

bread,  quick  method,  223 

bread,  sponge  method,  223 

cup  cake,  261 

fish,  boiled,  371 

Mayonnaise,  168 

sauce,  102 

soup  stock,  367 
Winter  salad,  174 


Yeast,  222 

Yorkshire  pudding,  62 


Zwieback,  245 


475 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

2  gills  =  1  cup 
2  cups  =  l  pint 
2  pints  =  1  quart 
4  quarts  =  1  gallon 
16  ounces  =  1  pound 
8  quarts—  1  peck 
4  pecks-  1  bushel 


EQUIVALENT  MEASUUS 

4  level  saltspoons—1  level  teaspoon 

3  level  teaspoons  =  1  level  tablespoon 
16  level  tablespoons  =  1  cup 

1  wineglass  =  Va  gill 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  =  1 
2  solid  cups  butter =1 

4  cups  flour- 1  pound 

1  cup  raisins  or  currants- 6  ounces 


GOOD  TO  REMEMBER 

One  teaspoon  or  tablespoon  means  a  level  teaspoon  or  tablespoon. 

A  tin,  aluminum  or  glass  measuring  cup  should  be  used  for  all  measuring.  These 
cups  are  marked  off  in  quarters  and  thirds  and  insure  accuracy. 

Aluminum  cooking  utensils  are  the  best  for  general  use.  They  are  expensive 
in  the  beginning,  but  outwear  other  kinds.  They  are  light  in  weight  and  easily 
cleaned,  and  there  ia  no  enamel  to  chip  off  and  poison  the  food. 

Discolored  pans  and  kettles,  not  aluminum,  should  be  boiled  in  water  to  which 
a  lump  of  washing  soda  has  been  added. 

Scrupulous  cleanliness  and  eternal  vigilance  are  the  essentials  of  all  goodcooking. 

If  the  oven  becomes  too  hot  while  bread  or  cake  is  baking,  it  may  be  cooled  by 
setting  a  pan  of  water  in  it. 

If  bread  or  cake  browns  too  quickly,  cover  with  a  piece  of  paper. 

Pies  should  always  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven,  with  the  greatest  heat  at  the  bottom* 

Cakes  will  seldom  stick  if  this  direction  is  followed :  Grease  the  pans  carefully  ; 
dust  lightly  with  flour;  shake  out  the  superfluous  flour  and  pour  in  the  mixture. 

Muffins  and  gems  will  be  lighter  if  baked  in  pans  that  have  been  thoroughly 
heated  as  well  as  greased. 

Biscuit  dough  should  Be  as  soft  as  possible.  Biscuits  will  bs  lighter  and 
crisper  if  not  allowed  to  touch  each  other  on  the  baking  tin. 

Meat  should  never  be  put  in  cold  water  except  in  making  soup,  for  cold  water 
draws  out  the  juices.  Wipe  with  a  wet  cloth,  or  rinse  and  dry  at  once,  and  in  cooking 
use  boiling  water. 

Tomatoes  that  are  too  strongly  acid  are  improved  by  a  pinch  of  baking  soda. 
The  soda  should  always  be  added  when  they  are  to  be  mixed  with  milk  or  cream, 
to  prevent  curdling. 

The  white  of  eggs  will  whip  more  readily  if  a  pinch  of  salt  is  added.  The  eggs 
should  be  as  cold  as  possible. 

Cream  that  is  too  thin  to  whip  may  be  made  to  do  so  by  the  addition  of  aa 
unbeaten  white  of  egg. 

When  dipping  articles  hi  egg  and  cracker,  dilute  the  egg  with  a  tablespoon  of 
water.  Only  the  white  may  be  used,  if  desired,  but  never  only  the  yolk,  as  it  is  the 
albumen  which  is  needed  to  form  a  coat  which  the  grease  cannot  penetrate. 

Almost  any  dish  is  made  more  inviting  by  a  little  garnishing.  Parsley,  water* 
cress,  slices  of  lemon,  bfcet,  onion,  hard-boiled  egg  or  maraschino  cherry,  small 
triangles  of  toast,  potato  balls,  mashed  potatoes  pressed  through  a  pastry  tube — 
all  these  are  useful  and  within  reach  of  almost  every  cook.  Paper  doilies,  paper 
cups,  and  paper  frills  for  chops  may  also  be  used  to  good  advantage:  these  may  tre 
tought  at  any  stationer's* 


Graceful  as  a  willow  wand, 
But  more  divinely  proportioned. 

— Romance  of  Youth. 


Jack  Sprat  could  eat  no  fat, 

His  wife  could  eat  no  lean; 
And  so  betwixt  them  both, 

They  licked  the  platter  clean. 

— Mother  Goose. 


436 


DIET  FOR  WEIGHT  CONTROL 

FROM  the  nature  of  their  diet,  it  is  easy  to  believe  that  Jack 
Sprat  of  the  nursery  rhyme  was  under  weight,  and  that  Mrs . 
Sprat  was  the  exact  opposite.  While  it  is  undoubtedly  true  that 
some  persons  are  naturally  inclined  to  thinness,  and  others  to  fat- 
ness, it  is  also  equally  true  that  undue  excess  in  either  direction  can 
largely  be  controlled  by  proper  diet. 

Causes  of  Overweight.- — Simply  stated,  excess  weight  results  from 
an  overconsumption  of  the  fuel  and  energy  foods;  that  is,  starches, 
sugars,  and  fats.  If  too  much  of  these  foods  is  consumed,  the 
excess  is  stored  up  by  nature  in  the  body  as  adipose  tissue  or  fat. 
Nature's  wise  purpose  is  to  be  able,  in  emergency,  to  draw  upon 
the  stored  supply,  when  the  tissues  are  wasted  by  disease  or  fever. 
But  an  excess  of  such  storage  results  not  only  in  an  awkward 
burden  of  avoirdupois,  and  unpleasing  physical  proportions,  but 
causes  overtaxation  of  the  heart,  and  becomes  dangerous  to  health. 

Curing  One's  Self. — The  cause  being  understood,  the  method  of 
cure  is  evident.  The  first  necessity  is  to  face  the  fact.  Be  weighed. 
'Consult  the  table  of  normal  weights,  page  441,  then  use  every 
ounce  of  will-power  possessed  to  overcome  the  unpleasant  condi- 
tion. Unless  the  overweight  is  due  to  some  disturbance  of  the 
secretions  of  the  body,  about  which  a  physician  should  be  con- 
sulted, unflagging  perseverance  in  cutting  down  the  diet,  and  in 
taking  exercise  will  result  in  reducing  the  pull  on  the  scales. 

Foods  to  Avoid. — Of  course  the  foods  to  shun  are  the  starch, 
sugar,  and  fat  foods, 

A  LIST  OF  FOODS  TO  AVOID 

Appetizers — catsups,  pickles,  olives,  horseradish,  etc. 
Rich  foods  made  with  fat  or  oil  bases — cream  soups  and  sauces, 
oil  salad  dressings. 

29  437  i/-fc 


DIET   FOR  WEIGHT   CONTROL 

Carbonaceous  meats— pork  and  pork  products;  sausage,  scrap- 
ple, etc.  Such  vegetables  and  cereals  as  potatoes,  hominy,  rice, 
cornmeal  mush,  oatmeal,  parsnips,  beets,  turnips,  and  other 
starchy  foods. 

Sweets — candies,  cakes,  puddings,  pastry. 

Beverages — tea  and  coffee  may  be  used,  but  with  a  minimum 
of  sugar  and  cream,  far  better  without  either.  Avoid  cocoa  and 
unskimmed  milk. 

WHAT  TO  EAT 
For  breakfasts: 

Fruits — oranges,  grapefruit,  peaches,  pears,  apples,  grapes,  cherries,  etc. 

Berries — fresh  strawberries,  blackberries,  huckleberries  or  blueberries,  etc. 

Bread  or  cereal — one  piece  toast,  bran,  or  graham  bread;  or,  1  cup  (scant)  puffed 

whole  cereal,  with  skimmed  milk. 
Beverages — tea  or  coffee  without  cream  and  sugar. 

For  dinners  : 

Clear  soups  or  broths. 

Lean  meat,  chicken,  or  white  fleshed  fish. 

Green  and  succulent  vegetables — spinach,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  tomatoes,  string 

beans,  cress,  celery,  etc.,  without  butter  or  cream  dressing. 
Salads  with  a  very  little  French  dressing. 
Fruit  desserts;  as,  prunes,  pineapple. 
Beverages — lemonade  with  little  sugar,  or  tea  or  coffee.  . 

For  luncheons  or  suppers : 

Thin  soup;  as,  tomato,  consomme. 

One  glass  skimmed  milk  or  buttermilk,  or  poached  egg,  or  spinach  with  egg,  or  fish. 

Bread  or  cereal  as  for  breakfast. 

Fruit  or  plain  salad. 

Select  only  one  or  two  items  of  food  for  each  meal;  a  greater 
variety  is  conducive  to  weight. 

In  following  a  reducing  dietary,  it  would  be  well  to  serve  a  sugar- 
less, creamless,  cup  of  hot  tea  or  coffee  mid-meals,  but  no  food 
should  be  eaten  between  meals.  It  is  generally  thought  wise  to  cut 
down  the  quantity  of  water,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  in 
cases  of  gout  and  rheumatism,  an  increased  amount  of  liquid  is 
necessary.  In  all  cases  gradual  reduction  of  weight  is  much  better 

438  L-L 


DIET   FOR   WEIGHT   CONTROL 


than  rapid  decrease.  Loose  skin  over  reduced  muscles  makes  an 
aged  appearance,  and  sudden  loss  of  weight  may  injure  the  health. 
Elderly  people  should  not  follow  a  rigid  system  of  reduction. 

If  a  glass  or  two  of  water  is  taken  before  eating,  it  may  help 
with  a  rigid  regime,  by  giving  a  sense  of  fullness  at  the  beginning 
of  a  meal.  The  extent  of  diet  restrictions  depends  upon  the  amount 
of  excess  weight.  Having  decided  how  much  the  daily  allowance 
should  be  cut  down,  do  not  carry  out  the  plan  spasmodically,  but 
day -in  and  day-out  keep  within  the  limitation;  and  the  reward  will 
surely  come. 

It  is  well  to  remember  that  over-eating  is  more  dangerous  than 
under-eating;  and  that  after  all,  the  question  of  reduction  is  chiefly 
a  question  of  the  intelligent  control  of  the  appetite. 

By  consulting  chapter  on  Balanced  Rations,  page  417,  many 
hints  may  be  gleaned  as  to  selections  for  menus,  always  allowing 
less  food  than  for  the  average  person. 

A  bottle  of  citrate  of  magnesia  taken  once  a  week  is  usually 
beneficial  as  a  body  regulator,  the  consequent  depletion  of  the 
blood  vessels  of  the  intestines  causing  them  to  give  up  considerable 
water,  thus  lessening  weight. 

Exercise. — Since  overweight  is  caused  by  storage  of  energy  food, 
it  follows  that  an  expenditure  of  energy  will  draw  upon  such  stor- 
age, and  reduce  weight.  Before  any  system  of  strenuous  exercise 
is  undertaken,  a  thorough  examination  should  be  given  by  a  phy- 
sician as  to  heart  action,  blood  pressure,  and  general  physical  fit- 
ness. Exercises  are  of  very  little  help  unless  kept  up  regularly. 
One  rule  must  be  observed:  stop  when  tired.  Almost  any  good 
book  on  physical  training  will  give  excellent  exercises  for  weight- 
control. 

Remember  that  walking  in  the  open  air  is  always  a  splendid 
exercise,  using  up  food  fuel  rapidly.  No  so-called  "  reducing " 
medicines  should  be  taken  without  the  advice  of  a  physician,  for 
probably  all  such  medicines  are  dangerous. 

HOW  TO  ADD   WEIGHT 

Foods  to  Avoid. — It  is  very  much  easier  to  add  than  to  reduce 
weight,  for  all  the  "indulgences"  of  diet  are  the  things  needed. 
Usually  the  person  of  underweight  is  overfond  of  salads  and  other 
foods  which  give  bulk.  It  would  be  well  to  read  a  list  of  what  the 
obese  should  avoid,  in  order  to  know  what  the  too  thin  should  eat; 
but  if  sweets  and  desserts  are  taken  at  the  beginning  of  a  meal,  or 
between  meals,  the  desire  for  substantial  food  is  lost. 

439  L-L 


DIET   FOR  WEIGHT   CONTROL 


What  to  Eat. — The  fattening  foods  or  carbohydrates — starches, 
sugars  and  fats — are  what  the  too  thin  person  should  choose  in 
diet;  and  not  many  succulent  green  vegetables,  or  salads,  unless 
they  are  served  with  mayonnaise  dressing  made  of  oil,  or  of  rich 
cream.  Potatoes  or  any  other  starchy  vegetable  with  cream  sauce; 
or  rice,  hominy,  corn  and  similar  cereal  foods  should  be  selected. 

For  desserts — puddings  and  cakes  with  cream,  ice-cream,  and 
whipped  cream;  sweet  chocolate. 

For  beverages — little  tea  or  coffee.  Drink  and  eat  whole  milk, 
swallowing  it  slowly.  This  food  is  excellent  between  meals.  Cocoa 
and  chocolate. 

If  digestion  is  weak,  do  not  use  many  different  kinds  of  food  at 
one  meal.  Use  no  pickles;  few  acids. 

By  turning  to  the  tables  of  food  values  on  page  425,  calculation 
may  be  made  as  to  dietary,  always  allowing  more  fuel  food  than 
for  the  average  person. 

List  of  Fattening  Foods 

Cream  soups. 

Cream  dressings. 

Milk  dishes. 

Oil  dressings. 

Potatoes,  sweet  and  white,  turnips,  carrots,  etc. 

Macaroni,  spaghetti,  etc. 

Rice,  tapioca,  and  arrow-root  puddings. 

Cakes  of  all  kinds. 

Sweet  chocolate,  candies. 

Cocoa,  chocolate,  whipped  cream,  ice-cream,  cereals  with  cream. 

Eat  also  eggs,  fish,  meat,  beans,  peas,  lentils,  fruits  and  berries 
Consult  the  following  weight  tables.  Be  weighed;  and  tram 
your  taste  to  like  what  your  body  needs.  To  do  this,  take  at  first 
only  a  little  of  the  kind  of  food  you  do  not  care  for.  Rest,  and 
then  exercise.  Take  plenty  of  sleep — ten  hours  each  night  if 
possible,  and  angles  will  become  curves;  the  lean  and  hungry  look 
will  disappear;  and,  incidentally,  life  will  seem  brighter.  Then, 
too,  in  case  of  illness  nature  will  have  a  store  of  energy  fuel  to 
draw  upon. 

Rest. — Thin  people  are  usually  of  restless,  nervous  temperament, 
"always  on  the  move,"  expending  muscular  energy  every  waking 
minute;  bolting  a  meal,  and  flying  away  to  another  occupation. 
The  old  Roman  custom  of  resting  and  relaxing,  but  not  napping, 

440  L-L 


DIET   FOR  WEIGHT   CONTROL 


after  eating  had  a  very  commendable  reason.  So,  too,  had  their 
custom  of  massaging  with  oil.  The  thin  person  will  find  such 
massage  very  beneficial,  for  the  body  is  able  to  absorb  such  food. 

Codliver  oil,  taken  either  in  capsules,  or  by  the  spoonful  fol- 
lowed with  orange  juice,  is  a  flesh-builder  as  well  as  a  health  giver. 
This  oil  is  very  easily  digested. 

Rest  is  necessary  for  increasing  weight ;  but  so  also  is  exercise,  for 
the  thin  person  needs  plenty  of  oxygen  to  aid  in  the  digestion  and 
assimilation  of  food,  and  in  throwing  off  poisonous  waste  matters. 

The  following  tables  afford  a  standard  of  weight  for  comparison. 
In  comparing  your  own  weight  with  the  table,  your  type  of  build 
should  be  taken  into  account,  as  well  as  height  and  age.  A  person 
of  naturally  slender  type  might  be  below  the  standard,  or  one  of 
stocky,  thick-set  type  might  be  above  the  standard,  and  yet  both 
be  normally  healthy.  If,  however,  the  excess  in  either  direction 
is  over  ten  per  cent,  corrective  measures  should  be  taken. 

In  ascertaining  height,  measure  in  shoes;  stand  erect,  and  press 
measuring  rod  down  on  scalp.  Weigh  yourself  in  indoor  clothing 
and  shoes.  Subtract  one  inch  for  height  if  sensible  heels  are  worn; 
if  heels  are  "high, "  subtract  two  inches.  Your  standard  of  weight 
is  found  where  your  height  and  age  columns  meet,  ' 


WEIGHT  TABLE  FOR  WOMEN  OF  DIFFERENT  HEIGHTS  AND  AGES  * 


AGE,  YEABS. 


19 

20 

21-22 

23-24 

25-29 

30-34 

35-39 

40-44 

45-49 

50-54 

4  ft.  10  in  
4ft.  11  in  
5  ft     

98 
103 
109 

102 
107 
112 

106 
109 
113 

110 
112 
115 

113 
115 
117 

116 
118 
120 

119 
121 
123 

123 
125 
127 

126 
128 
130 

129 
131 
133 

6  ft.  1  in  
5  ft.  2  in  
5  ft  3  in 

113 
116 
120 

115 
118 
121 

116 
119 
122 

118 
120 
123 

119 
121 
124 

122 
124 
127 

125 
127 
130 

129 
132 
135 

132 
135 
138 

135 
138 
141 

5  ft  4  in 

123 

124 

125 

126 

128 

131 

134 

138 

141 

144 

5  ft.  5  in  
5  ft.  6  in  
5  ft.  7  in  
5ft.  Sin  
5ft.  9  in  
5ft.  10  in  
5ft.  11  in  
6ft  

126 
129 
131 
135 
138 
141 
145 
150 

127 
130 
133 
137 
140 
143 
147 
152 

128 
131 
135 
139 
142 
145 
149 
154 

129 
133 
137 
141 
145 
148 
151 
156 

131 
135 
139 
143 
147 
151 
154 
158 

134 
138 
142 
146 
150 
154 
157 
161 

138 
142 
146 
150 
154 
157 
160 
163 

142 
146 
150 
154 
158 
161 
164 
167 

145 
149 
153 
157 
161 
164 
168 
171 

148 
152 
156 
161 
165 
169 
173 
176 

*  This  table  was  prepared  by  Thomas  D.  Wood,  M.D.,  Professor  of  Physical 
Education,  Columbia  University,  and  is  used  by  the  United  States  Bureau  of 
Education  and  the  Child  Health  Organization  of  America. 

441  L-L 


DIET   FOR  WEIGHT   CONTROL 


WEIGHT  TABLE  FOR  MEN  OF  DIFFERENT  HEIGHTS  AND  AGES 


AGE,  YEAHS. 


19 

20 

21-22 

23-24 

25-29 

30-34 

35-39 

40-44 

45-49 

50-54 

55-59 

5ft... 
5ft.  1  in  
5ft.  2  in  
5  ft.  3  in  
5  ft.  4  in  
5  ft.  5  in  
5  ft.  6  in  
5  ft.  7  in  
5  ft.  8  in  
5  ft.  9  in. 

107 
112 
117 
121 
124 
128 
132 
136 
140 
144 

110 
115 
120 
124 
127 
130 
133 
137 
141 
145 

114 
118 
122 
126 
129 
132 
136 
140 
143 
147 

118 
121 
124 
128 
131 
134 
138 
142 
146 
150 

122 
124 
120 
129 
133 
137 
141 
145 
149 
153 

126 
128 
130 
133 
136 
140 
144 
148 
152 
156 

128 
130 
132 
135 
138 
142 
146 
150 
155 
160 

131 
133 
135 
138 
141 
145 
149 
153 
158 
163 

133 
135 
137 
140 
143 
147 
151 
155 
160 
165 

134 
136 
138 
141 
144 
148 
152 
156 
161 
166 

135 
137 
13!) 
142 
14.5 
149 
153 
158 
163 
168 

5ft.  10  in  
5  ft.  11  in. 

148 
153 

149 
154 

151 
156 

154 
159 

157 
162 

161 
166 

165 
170 

168 
174 

170 
176 

171 
177 

173 
178 

6ft  
6  ft.  1  in. 

158 
163 

160 
165 

162 
167 

165 
170 

167 
173 

172 
178 

176 
182 

180 
186 

182 
188 

183 
190 

184 
191 

6ft.  Sin  
6ft.  3  in  
6ft.  4  in  
6  ft.  5  in  

168 
173 
178 
183 

170 
175 
180 

185 

173 

178 
183 
188 

176 
181 
186 
191 

179 
184 
189 
194 

184 
190 
196 
201 

189 
195 
201 

207 

193 
200 
206 
212 

195 
202 
209 
215 

197 
204 
211 

217 

198 
205 
212 
219 

*  This  table  was  prepared  by  Thomas  D.  Wood,  M.D.,  Professor  of  Physical 
Education,  Columbia  University,  and  is  used  by  the  United  States  Bureau  of 
Education  and  the  Child  Health  Organization  of  America. 


442 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


TJie  child  is  building  the  temple  of  the  soul,  planned  by  the  divine 
Architect — but  ofttimes  ruined  by  man's  bad  workmanship. 

—Child  Life. 


Upon  the  health  and  strength  of  our  children  the  glory  and  greatness 
of  our  nation  depend. 

Every  child  has  a  right  to  be  as  healthy  as  present  knowledge  can 
make  him.     Proper  feeding  is  one  of  the  chief  factors  in  health. 

— Health  Education. 


444 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 

THE  witty  French  cook  who  said,  "Tell  me  what  you  eat, 
and  I  will  tell  you  what  you  are, "  might  even  more  certainly 
have  stated,  "Tell  me  what  you  give  your  children  to  eat,  and  I 
will  tell  you  what  they  will  grow  to  be, "  for  the  kind  of  food  the 
child  eats  largely  determines  whether  he  will  be  a  strong,  healthy 
adult,  or  a  weakling.  More  important,  then,  than  the  wise 
selection  of  foods  for  grown  people  is  the  proper  feeding  of  the 
growing  bodies  of  children — especially  of  little  children, 

A  few  general  rules  should  be  borne  in  mind: 

1.  Meals  should  be  given  at  regular  times. 

2.  No  "nibbling"  between  meals.     If  a  child  is  really  hungry,  a 
slice  of  bread  and  butter  will  satisfy  the  craving  for  food.     Never 
give  candy  at  such  times.     It  will  not  only  spoil  the  normal  appe- 
tite, but  will  encourage  a  bad  habit.     Oftentimes  a  glass  of  water, 
and  not  food,  is  what  the  little  one  really  craves. 

3.  Teach  the  child  to  drink  plenty  of  water  between  meals — 
several  glasses  a  day. 

4.  Happiness  while  eating  is  essential  to  good  digestion. 

5.  Do  not  force  a  child  to  eat.     If  after  a  day  or  two  the  appetite 
does  not  return,  consult  a  physician. 

6.  Teach  a  child  to  wash  face  and  hands  before  eating.     Explain 
that  dirt  is  dangerous.     Explain  that  flies  are  dangerous. 

Teach  a  child  to  demand  fresh  air  and  sunshine,  for  they  are 
the  great  cleansers  of  nature. 

7.  Children  may  generally  be  taught  to  like  all  kinds  of  foods 
that  are  good  for  them.     By  giving  a  little  of  a  new  food  at  first, 
taste  can  be  cultivated. 

Staple  Food  Requirements 

1.  Milk  is  the  best  arid  most  important  food  for  growing  chil- 
dren. No  other  food  can  take  its  place.  Children  over  five  years 
of  age  should  have  at  least  three  cups  a  day,  more  if  possible. 

445  L-L 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


Warm  milk  is  more  easily  digested  than  cold  milk.  If  children 
rebel  against  drinking  plain  milk,  it  may  be  given  in  the  form  of 
cocoa,  milk  soups,  custards,  etc.  If  it  is  impossible  to  get  fresh 
milk,  use  dried  milk.  If  neither  fresh  nor  dried  milk  is  procurable, 
use  evaporated  milk.  If  skimmed  milk  is  given,  the  child  should 
eat  plenty  of  vegetables  and  cream  or  butter.  Tea  and  coffee 
should  not  be  given  to  growing  children  at  all. 

Bread  and  milk  form  a  perfect  food,  containing  all  food  elements 
in  the  right  proportion  to  sustain  child  life.  The  milk  furnishes 
protein  for  muscles  and  other  tissues;  fats  and  sugar  for  body  fuel; 
minerals  for  bones  and  other  tissues;  vitamins,  essential  to  growth 
and  health.  The  bread  furnishes  some  of  each  of  these,  but  is 
valuable  because  it  provides  starch  fuel  food,  and  gives  bulk. 

2.  Bread,  cereals  and  other  grain  products  should  furnish  about 
one-third  the  food  required  by  a  child. 

3.  Vegetables  are  essential  to  the  growing  child  not  only  for  their 
food  value,  but  because  they  contain  vitamins  (see  page   4£0). 
The  water  in  which  vegetables  and  rice  have  been  boiled  should  be 
used  for  making  soups,  sauces,  and  gravies.     Where  for  any  reason 
there  is  a  scarcity  of  milk  and  eggs,  the  diet  should  include  as  much 
milk  as  possible,  with  pea  or  bean  soups,  spinach  and  other  green 
vegetables,  oatmeal,  and  dried  fruits.     Vegetables  and  fruits  are 
excellent  sources  of  iron  and  other  elements  necessary  for  growth. 
If  combined  with  milk,  they  will  supply  food  value  fully  equal  to 
that  of  meat. 

4.  Eggs,  meat,  etc.     Aside  from  milk,  eggs  are  the  best  source  of 
protein  for  children.     Where  plenty  of  milk  and  an  egg  a  day  are 
included  in  the  diet,  a  child  needs  very  little  meat.     Allow  not 
more  than  2  ounces  of  meat  a  day  for  a  child  from  7-10  years;  3 
ounces  daily  from  10-14  years.     Broth  from  stews  may  be  given 
on  vegetables  and  bread. 

5.  Fruits. — There  should  be  some  fruit  in  the  diet  every  day. 
Where  fresh  fruit  is  not  possible,  use  dried  fruit.     Bananas  should 
not  be  eaten  raw  by  very  young  children.     Bananas  are  not  ripe 
until  the  skins  have  brown  spots.     They  should  be  cooked  if  given 
before  they  reach  this  stage. 

6.  Sweets. — There  is  danger  of  children  getting  too  much  sugar 
and  spoiling  the  appetite.     They  should  not  have  more  than  the 
following  allowance,  aside  from  that  contained  in  foods: 

5  to    7  years 1  tablespoon  daily 

7  to  12  years 2  tablespoons  daily 

446  L-L 


SCHOOL   LUNCHES 


It  is  better  to  give  sugar  in  cocoa  and  desserts  than  as  candy. 
Molasses  has  a  high  food  value.  Dates  are  a  good  substitute  for 
candy. 

7.  Fats  are  essential  for  growing  children.  Cream  and  butter, 
the  fats  of  milk,  are  the  most  important  kinds;  therefore,  children 
should  have  unskimmed  milk.  For  the  delicate  child,  cod-liver 
oil  is  an  excellent  fat,  containing  large  quantities  of  vitamins,  see 
page  420.  Cod-liver  oil  may  be  procured  in  gelatine  capsules,  but 
if  orange  juice  is  given  after,  the  child  seldom  objects  to  the  oil. 
Other  oils,  such  as  olive,  corn,  and  peanut,  are  good  foods,  too,  in 
small  quantities.  (See  Salads,  page  167.)  Young  children  should 
not  have  cooked  fats  except  bacon  fat,  which  is  easily  digested. 
All  fried  foods  should  be  avoided. 

Children  need  at  least  three  meals  a  day.  The  heavy  meal 
should  preferably  come  at  mid-day,  with  a  light  supper,  such  as 
bread  and  whole  milk,  baked  potatoes,  stewed  fruit;  or  cereal  and 
milk,  bread  and  butter,  baked  bananas;  or  poached  egg  on  toast, 
baked  potatoes,  bread  and  butter,  apple  sauce,  gingerbread. 

Desserts. — Cooked  desserts  are  not  essential  with  plenty  of  bread 
and  butter  and  vegetables  and  fruit.  When  given,  they  should  be 
plain  and  simple;  as  cereal  puddings  with  fruit,  such  as  rice,  oat- 
meal, or  bread  pudding. 

Home  Lunches. — If  dinner  is  at  the  end  of  the  day,  let  the  lunch- 
eon be  as  light  as  the  supper  would  be  if  the  main  meal  were  at 
mid-day.  See  end  of  this  chapter  for  suggestions. 

Basket  Lunches. — School  authorities  are  recognizing  the  impor- 
tance of  a  warm  mid-day  meal  for  children,  and  many  schools  pro- 
vide school  lunches.  If  a  child  must  carry  a  whole  luncheon,  it 
should  be  nutritious  as  well  as  appetizing.  If  possible  let  it  include 
a  bottle  of  milk.  If  it  is  practical  for  the  child  to  use  a  thermos 
bottle,  the  milk  may,  of  course,  be  wTarm;  or  hot  cocoa,  or  soup  may 
be  provided  by  this  means.  The  following  suggestions  should 
prove  helpful : 

NOURISHING  SANDWICHES  APPETIZING  FILLINGS 

Whole  wheat  bread  Peanut  butter 

Raisin  bread  Chopped  celery  with  mayonnaise 

Toast  Lettuce  and  tomato  with  dressing 

Nut  bread  Jelly,  or  chopped  raisins 

Oatmeal  muffins  Chopped  dates 

Rolls  Chopped  olives  and  peppers,  mayon- 
naise dressing 

447  L-L 


SCHOOL   LUNCHES 


See  chapter  on  Sandwiches,  page  287,  for  further  suggestions. 
Desserts  of  custard,  baked  apple,  sweet  chocolate,  maple  sugar, 
sponge  cake,  fruit  cookies,  or  gingerbread  make  a  pleasant  variety. 

It  is  essential  for  the  children  to  have  plenty  of  time  in  which  to  eat 
their  mid-day  meal.  The  child  who  bolts  a  meal  and  rushes  back 
to  school  cannot  either  work  or  digest  properly.  It  would  be  better 
to  carry  a  lunch  than  to  go  home  fora  warm  meal,  if  the  journey 
means  hurried  eating. 

Summary. — In  the  diet  of  the  child  the  following  is  suggestive: 

WHAT  FOODS  TO  AVOID  WHAT  FOODS  MEAN  GOOD  HEALTH 

Coffee  Milk 

Tea  Vegetables 

Sodas  Thick  soups 

Much  candy  Cereals 

Doughnuts  Fruits 

Much  meat  Honey  and  molasses 

Rich  cakes  Rice  puddings 

Highly  seasoned  dishes  Custards 

Pies  Ice  cream 

The  School  Lunch  Room 

The  school  lunch  room,  which  may  be  conducted  by  the  Parent- 
Teacher  Association  or  the  Home  and  School  Club,  makes  it  possible 
for  children  to  buy  nourishing  warm  food  for  a  few  cents.  This 
is  a  very  pleasant  arrangement  for  all  children,  but  its  chief  value 
is  in  promoting  the  health  of  those  who  are  under-nourished  at 
home.  The  time  will  come,  no  doubt,  when  the  authorities  of 
every  school  will  provide  meals  for  all  children  who  are  under- 
weight, or  who  otherwise  show  malnutrition. 

Most  housekeepers  have  collections  of  recipes  of  all  kinds,  but 
probably  few  have  attempted  to  compile  lists  of  dishes  suitable  for 
school  lunches.  A  few  suggestions  may  be  welcome.  By  all  means 
children  should  be  instructed  in  the  lunch  room  as  to  food  values, 
and  should  not  be  allowed  to  select  sweets  or  ice-cream  in  the  place 
of  substantial  dishes. 

School  Lunch  Room  Bills  of  Fare 

1.  Vegetable  or  milk  soup;  crackers;  rolls;  fruit;  plain  cake; 
cocoa. 

2.  Meat  and  vegetable  stew;  bread  and  butter;  sweet  chocolate. 

448  L-L 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


3.  Tomato   soup;   tapioca   custard;   lettuce   sandwiches;   fruit; 
cookies. 

4.  Macaroni  with  cheese  and  tomato  sauce;  fruit;  chopped  date 
sandwiches. 

Milk  and  cocoa  should  always  be  provided. 

A  few  meat  substitutes  and  "meat  extenders." — Scrambled  eggs 
with  minced  ham  or  bacon;  meat  stew  with  vegetables;  shep- 
herds's  pie  (meat  pie  with  mashed  potato  cover) ;  creamed  frizzled 
beef  on  toast;  fish  cakes;  salmon  loaf;  macaroni  or  spaghetti  with 
tomato  sauce;  creamed  potatoes  au  gratin. 


A  LIST  OF  SOUPS 

Vegetable  Soup  Rice  Pudding 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup  Boiled  Custard 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup  Tapioca  and  Fruit  Pudding 

Dried  Lima  Bean  Soup  Bread  Pudding 

Split  Pea  Soup  Apple  Betty  with  Cream 

Potato  Soup  Junket 

Corn  Chowder  Fruit,  raw  or  cooked 

Fish  Chowder  Gingerbread  or  plain  cake 

Cocoa  for  School  Lunch  Room,  ^ 

Measure  one  pound  of  cocoa.  Add  as  many  cups  of  sugar  as 
there  are  of  cocoa.  Add  three  cups  of  water.  Cook  until  thick 
and  glossy.  Pour  into  jelly  glasses  or  glass  jars.  Cover  and  set 
away.  When  cocoa  is  wanted  for  lunch  use,  prepare  according 
to  the  following  recipe : 

1  cup  milk  for  each  child. 

1V2  tablespoons  of  the  cocoa  mixture 

Heat  the  milk  scalding  hot  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  cocoa 
mixture.  Beat  well  and  serve.  More  sugar  may  be  used  in  the 
mixture  if  it  is  found  that  the  children  desire  it  sweeter. 

NOTE. — The  tables  of  height  and  weight  for  girls  and  boys,  pages 
450,  451,  afford  a  standard  for  comparison  only.  In  comparing  a 
child's  height  and  weight  with  the  table,  the  type  of  build  should 
be  taken  into  account.  A  child  of  slender  type  might  be  under 
weight,  and  one  of  thick-set,  stocky  type  might  be  over  weight, 
and  yet  both  be  normally  healthy.  A  slight  variation  is  no  cause 
for  alarm,  but  if  the  difference  amounts  to  ten  per  cent,  however, 
corrective  measures  should  be  taken. 


449 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES 


RIGHT  HEIGHT  AND  WEIGHT  FOR  GIRLS 


HEIGHT, 

INCHES. 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

39 

34 

35 

36 

40 

36 

37 

38 

41 

38 

39 

40 

42 

40 

41 

49 

43 

43 

49 

49 

43 

44 

44 

44 

45 

45 

46 

45 

46 

47 

47 

48 

49 

46 
47 
48 
40 

48 

-4S 
49 
51 
53 

49 
50 
52 
54 

50 
51 
53 
55 

51 
52 
54 
56 

53 
55 

57 

56 
58 

;; 

.  . 

«n 

56 

57 

58 

59 

60 

61 

51 

59 

60 

61 

69 

63 

64 

52 

69 

63 

61 

65 

66 

67 

53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 

66 
68 

67 
69 

72 
76 

68 
70 
73 

77 
81 
85 
89 

68 
71 

74 
78 
82 
86 
90 

69 

72 
75 
79 
83 
87 
91 

70 

73 
76 
80 
84 
88 
93 

77 
81 
85 
89 
94 

86 
90 
95 

91 
96 

98 

•• 

60 

94 

9,5 

97 

99 

100 

102 

104 

106 

61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 

99 
104 
109 

101 
106 
111 
115 
117 
119 

102 
107 
112 
117 
119 
121 
124 

104 
109 
113 
118 
120 
122 
126 

106 
111 
115 
119 
122 
124 
127 

108 
113 
117 
120 
123 
126 
128 

109 
114 
118 
121 
124 
127 
129 

111 
115 
119 
122 
125 
128 
130 

68 

126 

128 

130 

132 

133 

134 

69 

129 

131 

133 

135 

136 

137 

70 

134 

136 

138 

139 

140 

71 

138 

140 

142 

143 

144 

72 

145 

147 

148 

149 

ABOUT  WHAT  A   GIRL  SHOULD   (JAIN  EACH  MONTH 

AGE  OUNCES 

5  to     8 6 

8  to  11 8 

11  to  14 12 

14  to  16 8 

16  to  18.... 4 

Height  and  weight  to  be  taken  in  house  clothes,  without  shoes.     Weigh  on  the 
same  day  each  month,  about  the  same  hour  of  the  day.    Age,  the  nearest  birthday. 

450  L-L 


SCHOOL   LUNCHES 


RIGHT  HEIGHT  AND   WEIGHT  FOR  BOYS 


HEIGHT, 

i 

mMSf  j. 

BUOTt 

INCHES. 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

" 

15 

16 

17 

18 

39 

35 

36 

37 

.. 

40 

37 

38 

39 

41 

39 

40 

41 

42 

4-1 

42 

43 

44 

43 

43 

44 

45 

46 

44 

45 

46 

46 

47 

45 

47 

47 

48 

48 

49 

46 

48 

49 

50 

50 

51 

47 

51 

52 

52 

53 

54 

. 

48 

53 

54 

55 

55 

56 

57 

49 

55 

56 

57 

58 

58 

59 

50 

58 

59 

60 

60 

61 

62 

51 

60 

61 

62 

63 

64 

65 

52 

62 

63 

64 

65 

67 

68 

53 

66 

67 

68 

69 

70 

71 

54 

69 

70 

71 

72 

73 

74 

.  t 

55 

73 

74 

75 

76 

77 

78 

56 

77 

78 

79 

80 

81 

82 

.  . 

57 

81 

82 

83 

84 

85 

86 

.  . 

.  . 

58 

84 

85 

86 

87 

88 

90 

9i 

59 

87 

88 

89 

90 

92 

94 

96 

97 

60 

91 

92 

93 

94 

97 

99 

101 

102 

61 

95 

97 

99 

102 

104 

106 

108 

110 

62 

100 

102 

104 

106 

109 

111 

113 

116 

68 

105 

107 

109 

111 

114 

115 

117 

119 

64 

113 

115 

117 

118 

119 

120 

122 

65 

120 

122 

123 

124 

125 

126 

66 

125 

126 

127 

128 

129 

130 

67 

130 

131 

132 

133 

134 

135 

68 

134 

135 

136 

137 

138 

139 

69 

138 

139 

140 

141 

142 

143 

70 

142 

144 

145 

146 

147 

71 

147 

149 

150 

151 

152 

72 

152 

154 

155 

156 

157 

ABOUT  WHAT  A  BOY  SHOULD  GAIN  EACH  MONTH 

AGE  OUNCES 

5  to     8 6 

8  to  12 8 

12  to  14 12 

14  to  16 16 

16  to  18 8 

Height  and  weight  to  be  taken  in  house  clothes,  without  shoes.     Weigh  on  the 

same  date  each  month,  about  the  same  hour  of  the  day.    Age,  the  nearest  birthday. 

NOTE. — The  above  tables  were  prepared  by  Thomas  D.  Wood,  M.D.,  Professor  of 

Physical  Education,  Columbia  University,  and  are  used  by  the  United  States 

Bureau  of  Education  and  the  Child  Health  Organization  of  America. 

451  ly-L 


SCHOOL   LUNCHES 


SAMPLE  WINTER  DIET  FOR  A  WEEK  FOR  CHILDREN  7  TO  12  YEARS 


BREAKFAST. 

DINNER. 

SUPPER. 

Oatmeal,  %  cup,  with  milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Baked  apple,  1. 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Roast  lamb,  small  slice;    baked 
potatoes. 
Beets,   onions,   or  oyster  plant, 
2  to  3  tablespoonfuls. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Rice  pudding,  2  to  3  tablespoon- 
fuls. 

Scrambled  egg,  1. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Oatmeal  cookies,  1  or  2. 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Hominy,  %  cup,  with  milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  $  to  3  slices. 
Bacon,  1  slice. 
Cocoa  with  milk,  1  cup. 

Vegetable    soup,    with    carrots, 
beans,  onions,  1  cup. 
Spinach  with  poached  egg,  2  to  3 
tablespoonfuls. 
Corn  bread  and  butter,  2  to  3 
slices. 
Dates,  4  to  5. 

Baked  potato,  1. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Cottage  cheese,  1  tablespoonful. 
Stewed  apricots,   2   to  .1   table- 
spoonfuls. 

Corn  meal,  J-6  to  %  cup,  with 
milk. 
Toast  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Apple  sauce,  2  to  4  tablespoon- 
fuls. 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Rice  and  meat  loaf,  small  por- 
tion. 
Stewed  celery  or  cauliflower,   2 
to  3  tablespoonfuls. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Baked  Indian  pudding,  2  table- 
spoonfuls. 

Rice  and  milk,  y>.  cup. 
Creamed  carrots  or  celery. 
Bread  and  butter,  3  to  4  slices. 
Fruit  cookies,  1  or  2. 

Oatmeal,  2i  cup,  with  milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Stewed  prunes  or  figs,  3  to  4. 
Cocoa  with  milk,  1  cup. 

Beef  stew  with  vegetables,  small 
portion. 
Bread  and  butter,  3  to  4  slices. 
Rice  pudding  or  custard,  2  to  3 
tahlespoonfuls. 

Corn   bread   and   sirup,   2  to  3 
pieces. 
Macaroni,  with  tomatoes,  2  to  3 
tablespoonfuls. 
Bread,  2  to  3  slices,  and  peanut 
butter,  l/i  tablespoonful. 
Cocoa  with  milk,  1  cup. 

Corn  flakes,   1   to  2  cups,  and 
milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Soft  egg  and  bacon,  1  . 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Chicken,    small    slice;      mashed 
potato,  2  to  3  tablespoonfuls. 
Creamed  carrots  or  onions,  2  to 
3  tablespoonfuls. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Gingerbread   and  thin  cream,  1 
small  piece. 
Milk,  1  glass. 

Milk  toast,  2  to  3  slices. 
Cottage  cheese,  1  tablespoonful. 
Stewed  prunes,  4  to  5. 
Cookies. 

Wheat  or  malt  breakfast  food, 
%  cup,  with  milk. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Soft  egg;   milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Creamed,  or  fresh   broiled  fish, 
small  portion. 
Baked  potato,  1. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Baked  apple,  1. 

Spinach  or  bean  soup,  1  cup. 
Baked  potato,  1. 
Corn  bread  and  butter,  2  pieces. 
Milk  to  drink,  1  glass. 

Corn  meal,  %  cup,  and  milk. 
Toast  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Orange. 
Cocoa  with  milk,  1  cup. 

Lamb  stew  with  vegetables,  small 
portion. 
Baked  sweet  potato,  1. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Bread   or   rice  pudding,   2   to   3 
tablespoonfuls. 

Celery  soup  with  milk,  1  cup. 
Bread  and  butter,  2  to  3  slices. 
Custard  or  junket,  Vfj  cup. 
Ginger  cookies,  1  to  '•I. 

Toward  spring,  when  eggs  are  abundant,  they  may  be  given  more  frequently, 
replacing  some  meat  and  milk. 

NOTE. — These  lists  for  diet  of  children  were  prepared  for  the  United  States 
Bureau  of  Education  by  the  Child  Health  Organization  of  America. 

452  I^-L 


INDEX 


Afternoon  tea,  19 
Albumenized  water,  356 
Almond  cream,  185 

rock  cakes,  267 
Almonds,  salted,  292,  406 

with  eggs,  128 
Ambrosia,  25 
Anchovy  canapes,  25 

sandwiches,  288 
Angel  cake,  255,  388 
Appetizers,  23 

ambrosia,  25 

anchovy  canapes,  25 

angels  on  horseback,  26 

cavair  canapes,  25 

cheese  canapes,  25 

clam  cocktail,  24 

grape-fruit  cocktail,  24 

ham  canapes,  25 

lobster  cocktail,  23 

mixed-fruit  cocktail,  24 

oyster  cocktail  I,  23 

oyster  cocktail  II,  23 

pineapple  and  banana  cocktail,  24 

peach  cocktail,  25 

raspberry  cocktail,  24 

strawberry  cocktail,  24 
Apple  butter,  334 

cake,  233 

dainty,  406 

dumplings,  baked,  280 

fritters,  159 

jelly,  335 

meringue/ 191 

pie,  282,  393 

pudding,  196 

sauce,  105 

snow,  186 

tapioca,  190 

tart,  282 
Apples,  baked,  311 

baked,  with  oatmeal,  296 

canned,  325 

dried,  390 

fried,  312 

30  453 


Apricots,  dried,  390 
A-P's,  269 
Arrowroot,  355 

gruel,  364 

water,  355 
Artichoke,  Jerusalem,  141 

Globe,  141 
Asparagus,  146,  379 

cream  of,  33 

B 

Bacon  and  eggs,  78 
Baked  beans,  123,  380,  411 

crackers,  125 

flour  pudding,  193 

hash,  131,  376 
Baking  bread,  222 

cake,  254 

powder  bread,  225 
Baking  powder,  222,  255 
Balanced  rations,  417 
Banana  dainty,  177 

fritters,  160 

salad,  176 
Barley  mush,  365 

soup,  38 

Bavarian  cream,  188 
Bean  soup,  368 
Beans,  baked,  123,  380,  411 

Boston  roast,  124 

Lima,  142,  382 

Mexican,  124 

puree,  123,  382 

saute,  123 

string,  142 
Bechamel  sauce,  104 
Beef  a  la  mode,  62 

au  gratin,  373 

birds,  68 

boiled  dinner,  374 

boiling,  60,  372 

bouillon,  30 

brasing,  61 

broiling,  59 

chauffe,  405 

chop  suey,  66 


INDEX 


Beef,  corned,  64,  372 

creamed,  68 

cuts  of,  58 

Filipino,  67 

forcemeat,  94 

fricasseeing,  61 

frizzled,  69 

frying,  60 

guiso,  66 

Hungarian  goulash,  67 

kromeskies,  160 

loaf,  68 

Mexican,  66 

minced,  69 

mock  duck,  65 

mock  rabbit,  65 

pats,  360 

pickle  for  corning,  64 

pot-pie,  78 

pot  roast,  62 

purchasing,  57,  62 

roast,  59,  373 

roast  with  Yorkshire  pudding,  62 

roasting,  59 

sauteing,  61 

scalloped,  132 

soup,  35 

sour,  68 

stew,  373,  374 

stewing,  61 

tea,  353 

terrapin,  63 

tongue,  69,  70 
Beefsteak  (broiling),  59 

and  onions,  374 

en  casserole,  410 

Hamburg,  68 

planked,  63 

planked,  with  oysters,  64 

planked,  Salisbury,  64 

rolled,  65 

round,  373 

Spanish,  66 
Beet  greens,  140,  380 

salads,  173 
Beets,  144,  379 

pickled,  144,  380 
Belgrader  bread,  267 
Berry  charlotte,  191 

pudding,  197 
Bethlehem  apple  tart,  282 
Beverages,  345 

chocolate  nectar,  347 


Beverages,  chocolate  syrup,  347 

cocoa,  347 

coffee,  345 

coffee  in  bulk,  346 

egg  lemonade,  348 

five  o'clock  punch,  350 

fruit  drinks,  348 

fruit  punch,  349 

fruit  syrup,  349 

grape  juice,  348 

hot  chocolate,  347 

iced  tea,  347 

instantaneous  coffee,  345 

other  fruit  juices,  349 

punch  accompaniments,  349 

quick  lemonade,  348 

raspberry  vinegar,  349 

Russian  tea,  346 

serving  coffee,  346 

tea,  346 

tea  punch,  346 
Biscuits, 

drop,  243 

sour  cream,  243 

sour  milk,  244 

tea,  238 

Birds'  nests,  115 
Bisque  ice  cream,  206 
Black-bean  soup,  39 
Blackberries,  stewed,  318 

canned,  326 
Blackberry  jelly,  336 
Blanc  mange,  184 
Blanquette  of  chicken,  134 
Blueberry  cake,  258 
Bohemian  houska,  232 
Boiled  custard,  181 

dinner,  374 

frosting,  272 
Boiling  meat,  60 
Bombe  glace,  204 
Boston  brown  bread,  230,  .387 

roast,  124 

Bouillon,  30,  31,  370  397 
Braising  meat,  61 
Bread,  in  fireless,  386 
Bread,  hot  cakes,  221-250 

baking,  222 

baking  powder,  222 

Boston  brown,  230,  387 

Canada  egg,  229 

coarse  loaf,  230 

cocoa,  229 


454 


INDEX 


Bread,  corn,  228 

crumbs,  96 

gluten,  227 

Graham,  225,  387 

in  bread  mixer,  221 

kneading,  221 

making,  221 

milk,  224 

nut,  228 

oatmeal,  226 

pudding,  192,  391 

pulled,  42 

raisin,  229 

rice,  225 

rusk,  235 

rye,  227 

salt  raising,  225 

sauce,  100 

Scotch  short,  230 

sticks,  246 

white,  223,  224 

whole  wheat,  226 

yeast,  222 
Breakfast^  414 
Bridge-^hist  pudding,  188 
Brioche,  234 
Broiling,  59 
Broth,  lamb,  353 
Brown  Betty,  193 

bread,  230,  387 

bread  pudding,  195 

sauce,  99  r 

sugar  sauce,  216 
Browned  soup  stock,  367 
Browning  for  sauces,  106 
Brussels  sprouts,  139 
Buckwheat  cakes,  247,  248 
Buns,  236,  237 

cinnamon,  231 

English  Bath,  236 

hot  cross,  237 

sweet  French,  236 
Butter,  apple,  334 

lemon,  314 

peach,  334 
Butter  cake,  257 
Butter  scotch,  303 


Cabbage,  138,  380 
creamed,  139 
farmer's,  133 


Cabbage,  lady,  138 

with  pork,  138 
Cafe  frappe,  210 

parfait,  211 
Cake,  in  fireless,  388 
Cakes,  253-274 

almond  rock  cakes,  267 

angel  cake,  255,  388 

apple  cake,  233 

A-P's,  269 

Belgrader  bread,  267 

berry  cake,  258 

butter  cake,  257 

chocolate  cakes,  268 

chocolate  drop  cakes,  266 

Christmas  cake,  389 

chocolate  wafers,  269 

cinnamon,  231 

cinnamon  sweet  cake,  261 

oocoanut  cake,  260 

cocoanut  macaroons,  268 

coffee,  234 

coffee  loaf  cake,  262 

cookies,  271         > 

cornstarch  cake,  259 

cream  sponge,  256 

crisp  gingerbread,  270 

crullers,  270 

cup  cakes,  265 

currant  drop  cakes,  266 

devils'  food,  264 

drop  cakes,  265 

Dutch,  232 

economical  fruit  cake,  260 

farmers'  fruit  cake,  259 

fruit  jumbles,  271 

gingerbread,  263,  389 

ginger  drop  cakes,  266 

ginger  snaps  I,  269 

ginger  snaps  II,  269 

gold  cake,  257 

jelly  roll,  256 

jumbles,  270 

kisses,  272 

lady  cake,  261 

lemon  cake,  259 

macaroons,  268 

marble  cake,  262 

marshmallow  cake,  261 

meringues,  271 

mocha  torte,  264 

mock  pound  cake,  260 

molasses  cake,  263 


455 


INDEX 


Cakes,  Moravian,  235 

nut  cake,  389 

nut  macaroons,  268 

oat  cakes,  266 

oat  cookies,  267 

one-egg  fruit  cake,  260 

orange  cake.  257 

orange  gingerbread,  270 

patriotic  cake,  264 

peanut  cakes,  271 

peggy  cake,  257 

peppernuts,  267 

plain  cake,  258 

potato-flour  cake,  256 

pound  cake,  257 

sand  tarts,  271 

shellbark  cake,  258 

short  cake,  200,  284 

silver  cake,  258 

simple  layer  cake,  259 

snippy-doodle,  263 

sour-milk  cake,  389 

Spanish  bun  I,  265 

Spanish  bun  II,  265 

sponge  cake  I,  255,  388 

sponge  cake  II,  255,  388 

sponge  cake  III,  256 

sponge  ginger  cake,  263  ^ 

surprise  cake,  262 

white  cup  cake,  261 
Calf's  foot  jelly,  358 

head,  baked,  70 

liver,  braised,  72 

liver,  broiled,  72 

liver,  stewed,  73 

liver,  stuffed,  73 

liver  with  cream  sauce,  71 
Calories,  418 
Canada  egg  bread,  227 
Canapes,  25 

anchovy,  25 

Caviar,  25 

cheese,  25 

ham,  25 

Candied  lemon  and  orange  peel,  306 
Candy,  301,  406 

butter  scotch,  303 

candied  lemon  and  orange  peel,  306 

chocolate  caramels,  304 

chocolate  creams,  302 

chocolate  cream  mints,  302 

chocolate  fudge,  304 

cinnamon  candy,  303 


Candy,  cocoa  fudge,  304 

cocoanut  butter  scotch,  304 

cocoanut  cones,  307 

cream  peppermints,  305 

divinity,  306 

fondant,  301 

fruits  glace,  305 

hoarhound  candy,  307 

Karo  candy,  307 

marshmallows,  306 

Mexican  caramels,  305 

molasses  candy  I,  302 

molasses  candy  II,  303 

nougat,  302 

nuts  glace,  305 

orange  paste,  306 

peanut  brittle,  303 

pinoche,  303 

pop-corn  balls,  305 

pralines,  304 

quick  fondant,  301 

walnut  kisses,  308 
Canned  blackberries,  326 

blueberries,  326 

cherries,  326 

crab  apples,  328 

currants,  326 

gooseberries,  327 

grapes,  326 

mushrooms,  329 

peach  pudding,  195 

peaches,  327 

pears,  328 

pineapple,  328 

plums,  327  E 

quinces,  328 

raspberries,  325 

raspberries  and  currants,  326 

rhubarb,  327 

tomatoes,  329 
Canning  and  preserving,  323 

cold -pack  method,  318 

fruits,  321,  324 

open-kettle  method,  323 

vegetables,  321,  328 
Canvas-back  ducks,  403 
Caper  sauce,  103 
Caramel,  96 

custard,  186 

ice  cream,  206 

sauce,  215 
Caramels,  chocolate,  304 

Mexican,  305 
456 


INDEX 


Carrots,  143,  381 

and  peas,  143,  381 
Casserole  cookery,  409 

baked  beans  en  casserole,  411 

beefsteak  en  casserole,  410 

brown  fricassee  of  oysters,  411 

casserole  hash,  411 

casserole  roast,  410 

chicken  en  casserole,  409 

chicken  in  ramekins,  412 

eggs  in  ramekins,  412 

halibut  au  gratin,  412 

lamb  en  casserole,  410 

macaroni  in  ramekins,  411 

rice  in  ramekins,  411 

salmon  au  gratin,  412 

scalloped  oysters  in  ramekins,  41 1 

shin  meat  en  casserole,  412 
Catsups,  grape,  341 

mushroom,  341 

tomato,  340 
Cauliflower,  139,  381 

au  gratin,  139 

(Teamed,  139 

polonaise,  139 

salad,  174 
Caviar  canapes,  25 

sandwiches,  290 
Celery,  cream  of,  33 

creamed,  144,  381 

sauce,  104 
Cereals,  295,  364 

baked  apple  with  oatmeal,  296 

barley  mush,  365 

boiled  rice,  297,  366 

breakfast  foods,  366 

cereals  in  fireless,  364 

cooking  cereals,  295,  364 

corn-meal  mush,  296,  365 

cracked  wheat,  365 

cream  of  wheat,  367 

farina,  297 

fried  mush,  296 

graham  mush,  365 

hominy,  297,  365 

left-over  cereals,  298 

oatmeal  porridge,  295,  366 

oatmeal  with  cheese,  296 

rice  and  figs,  366 

rice  in  milk,  297 

rolled  wheat,  366 

wheat  cereals,  296 
Chafing-dish  cookery,  397 


Chafing-dish  cookery,  apple  dainty, 
406 

beef  chauffe,  405 

bouillon,  397 

candy,  406 

canvas-back  ducks,  403 

cheese  scramble,  400 

chicken  hollandaise,  398 

clam  and  egg  scramble,  403 

clam  toast,  403 

clams  a  la  creme,  402 

crab  a  la  creme,  403 

cream  of  tomato,  398 

creamed  oysters  and  celery,  401 

creamed  sardines,  404 

curried  eggs,  399 

deviled  lobster,  402 

deviled  meat,  405 

English  monkey,  398 

fig  dainty,  406 

frizzle-dizzle,  404 

frog  saddles,  404 

lobster  a  la  creme,  402 

lobster  stew,  402 

macaroni  milanaise,  405 

macaroni  rarebit,  399 

Mexican  rarebit,  399 

Mt.  Clemens  rarebit,  399 

mushrooms  with  bacon,  405 

oyster  pan-roast,  401 

panned  oysters,  401 

pigs  in  blankets,  401 

quail,  404 

rinktum  ditty,  398 

roasted  oysters,  401 

salted  almonds,  406 

sardine  savory,  403 

shrimp  a  la  creme,  403 

shrimp  wiggle,  397 

stirred  eggs,  400 

stock  scramble,  400 

terrapin,  400 

tomato  curry,  405 

tomato  scramble,  400 

veal  with  asparagus  tips,  404 

Welsh  rarebit,  398 
Charlotte  russe,  189 
Cheese,  119 

cake,  282 

canapes,  25 

cottage,  124 

filling  for  sandwiches,  291 

omelet,  113 


457 


INDEX 


Cheese,  rolls,  126 

scramble,  400 

souffle,  126 

soup,  36 

straws,  292 
Cherries,  canned,  326 

pickled,  333 

preserved,  330 

stewed,  313 
Cherry  conserve,  331 

mousse,  211 

pie,  282,  393 

pudding,  392 

sauce  for  ices,  212 

tapioca,  191 
Chestnuts,  150 

boiled,  150 

roasted,  150 
Chicken  a  la  crane,  162 

a  la  king,  162 

and  oysters,  87 

barbecued,  86 

blanquette  of,  134 

broiled,  85 

broth,  30 

croquettes,  163 

curry,  374 

en  casserole,  409 

forcemeat,  93 

fricassee,  86,  374 

fried,  86 

giblets,  84 

gumbo,  37 

hollandaise,  398 

in  ramekins,  412 

patties,  162 

pie,  86,  375 

planked,  85 

roast,  84,  375 

salad,  169 

soup,  368 

stew,  85,  375 

terrapin,  87 
Child,  444 

diet  for,  442 

height,  weight,  age,  442 
Children's  rusk,  235 
Chile  bisque,  32 
Chili  sauce,  340 
Chocolate  cakes,  264 

caramels,  304 

charlotte,  190 

cream  mints,  302 


Chocolate  creams,  302 
devils'  food,  264 
drop  cakes,  266 
eclairs,  199 
filling,  273 
frappe",  210 
frosting,  273 
fudge,  304 
hot,  347 
ice  cream,  206 
nectar,  347 
parfait,  211 
pudding,  183 
sauce,  217 
syrup,  347 
wafers,  269 
Chop  suey,  66 
Chowder, 
clam,  41 
corn,  41 

Christmas  cake,  389 
Cinnamon  bun,  231 
cake,  231 
candy,  303 
sweet  cake,  261 
toast,  291 

Citron  preserve,  333 
Clam  and  egg  scramble,  403 
bouillon,  3i 
chowder,  41 
cocktail,  24 
fritters,  51 
soup,  32 
toast,  403 
Clams,  50 

a  la  creme,  402 
creamed,  51 
panned,  53 
Club  sandwich,  291 
Coarse  loaf,  230 
Cocktails,  23-25 
clam,  24 
grapefruit,  24 
lobster,  23 
mixed  fruit,  24 
oyster,  23 
peach,  25 

pineapple  and  banana,  24 
raspberry,  24 
strawberry,  24 
Cocoa,  347 
bread,  229 
fudge,  304 


458 


INDEX 


Cocoa,  sauce,  218 

for  lunch  room,  449 
Cocoanut  butter  scotch,  304 

cake,  260 

cones,  307 

cornstarch,  183 

custard,  282 

filling,  274 

junket,  183 

macaroons,  268 

tapioca,  185 
Codfish,  49 

balls,  50,  371 

kedgaree,  115 
Coffee,  345 

cake,  234 

ice  cream,  206 

in  bulk,  346 

instantaneous,  345 

jelly,  187 

loaf  cake,  262 

serving,  346 
Cold  slaw,  173 

slaw  dressing,  173 
Cold  pack  method,  318 
Colored  Mayonnaise,  168 
Collation,  evening,  20 
Combination  salad,  171 

sherbet,  209 

sandwich,  291 

Combinations  for  menu-making,  80 
Consomme,  30 
Cooked  dressing,  168 
Cookery, 

casserole,  409-413 

chafing  dish,  397-406 

fireless,  363-393 

invalid,  353-360 

principles  of,  3-8 
Cookies,  271 
Cooking,  methods  of,  6,  59-61 

by  fireless,  363 

purpose  of,  5 
Cordial,  350 
Corn  and  cheese  souffle,  125 

baked,  381 

baked  with  tomatoes,  381 

boiled  green,  382 

bread,  228 

bread  with  yeast,  228 

chowder,  41 

cream  of,  34 

griddle  cakes,  248 


Corn  meal  mush,  296,  365 

muffins,  242 

muffins  with  yeast,  242 

off  the  cob,  148 

on  the  cob,  148 

pudding,  149 

soup,  368 

succotash,  149 
Corned  beef,  64,  372 

beef  hash,  132 
Cornstarch  cake,  259 

pudding,  182 
Cottage  cheese,  124 

pudding,  192,  391 
Course  dinner,  16 
Crab  a  la  creme,  403 
Crabs,  deviled,  54 
Cracked  wheat,  365 
Cracker  gruel,  354 
Crackers,  soaked,  357 

baked  with  cheese,  125 
Cranberries,  stewed,  313 
Cranberry  frappe,  210 

sauce,  104 

tart,  281 
Cream,  almond,  185 

for  puffs,  199 

of  asparagus  soup,  33 

of  celery  soup,  33,  369 

of  corn  soup,  34 

of  lettuce  soup,  34 

of  pea  soup,  33,  370 

of  potato  soup,  32 

of  spinach  soup,  34 

of  tomato  soup,  33 

of  tomato  sauce,  102 

of  wheat,  367 

peppermints,  305 

puffs,  199 

sauce,  100,  215 

sponge,  256 

stock,  30 

toast,  357 

Cream  dressing,  168 
Creamed  frizzled  beef,  69 

hash,  132 
Croquettes,  chicken,  163 

fish,  134 

meat,  164 

potato,  152 

rice,  164 

Croutons,  41  . 

Crullers,  270 


459 


INDEX 


Crumb  griddle  cakes,  248 
Crust  for  pies,  277,  278,  279 
Cucumber  salad,  173 
Cucumbers,  stuffed,  155 
Cup  cakes,  265 

custards,  186 
Currants,  spiced,  332 

Currant  drop  cakes,  266 

ice,  208 

jelly,  336 

tea-ring,  233 
Curry  of  beef,  131 

of  lamb,  132 

of  rabbit,  164 

of  tomato,  405 

of  veal,  70,  377 

sauce,  101 

Cusk  a  la  creme,  134 
Custard,  181,  358 

boiled,  181 

caramel,  186 

cup,  186 

pie,  281,  393 

sauce,  215 

tapioca,  185 
Cutlets,  134 

fish,  134 


Dandelions,  141 

Date  and  fig  sandwiches,  288 

sponge,  198 
Delicate  pudding,  190 
Desserts  and  puddings,  181-200 

in  fireless,  390-393 

frozen,  203-212 

see  puddings,  181 
Deviled  crabs,  54 

eggs,  171 

meat,  405 
Devils'  food,  264 
Diagram  of  cuts  of  beef,  58 

of  cuts  of  lamb  and  mutton,  61 

of  cuts  of  pork,  76 

of  cuts  of  veal,  71 
Diet  for  the  school  child,  445-448 

for  weight  control,  437-442 

rules  for  balancing,  430 
Dinner,  11-18 

formal,  13 

informal,  18 

menus,  15,  Id 

rolls,  239 


Dinner,  without  meat,  120,  121 
Divinity,  306 

frosting,  273 
Doughnuts,  231,  270 
Drawn  butter,  101 
Dressing,  for  roast,  94,  95 

for  salad,  167-169 
Dried  beans  and  peas,  142 

beans  saute,  123 

fruits,  313,  390 

peas,  beans,  lentils,  121 
Drippings,  95 
Drop  biscuit,  243 

cakes,  265,  266 

dumplings,  249 
Duck,  roast,  87 

mock,  65 

salmi,  164 
Dumplings,  baked  apple,  280 

drop,  249 

rolled,  249 
Dutch  cake,  232 


Economical  fruit  cake,  260 

ice  cream,  204 

short  cake,  284 

soup,  38 
Economy,  8 
Egg  and  olive  sandwiches,  290 

gruel,  354 

lemonade,  348 

milk-shake,  357 

muffins,  243 

salad,  172 

sandwiches,  289 

sauce,  100,  216 

toast,  291 
Eggplant,  baked,  147 

broiled,  148 

fried,  147 
Eggs,  109-116 

bacon  and,  78 

baked  a  la  Martin,  114 

baked  omelet,  113 

Beauregard,  115 

birds'  nests,  115 

boiled,  109 

cheese  omelet,  113 

coddled,  109 

codfish  omelet,  113 

corn  omelet,  112 

crumb  omelet,  112 


460 


INDEX 


Eggs,  curried,  110,  399 

deviled,  171 

fried,  109 

golden  buck,  114 

griddled,  110 

ham  and,  77 

ham  omelet,  111 

in  ramekins,  412 

Japanese,  115 

kedgaree,  115 

ox  eyes,  114 

oyster  omelet,  113 

plain  omelet,  110 

poached,  109 

rice  omelet,  111 

savory  omelet  I,  111 

savory  omelet  II,  111 

scambled,  110 

shirred,  110 

Spanish,  116 

stirred,  400 

sweet  omelet,  112 

tomato  omelet,  112 

Welsh  rarebit,  114 

with  almonds,  128 
Energy  requirements,  424,  425 
English  Bath  buns,  236 

monkey,  398 

muffins,  240 

plum  pudding,  194 

scones,  238 
Entertaining,  11 
Entrees,  159 

apple  fritters,  159 

banana  fritters,  160 

beef  kromeskies,  1601 

chicken  a  la  crane,  162 

chicken  a  la  king,  162 

chicken  croquettes,  163 

chicken  patties,  162 

curried  rabbit,  164 

fritter  batter,  159 

ham  patties,  162 

meat  croquettes,  164 

meat  patties,  162 

oyster  fritters,  169 

patty  shells,  163 

rice  timbales,  161 

rissoles,  160 

Roman  gnocchi,  160 

salmi  of  game,  164 

timbale  cases,  161 

timbale  of  macaroni,  161 


Entrees,  vegetable  fritters,  159 

vol-au-vent,  163 
Evening  collation,  20 


Farina,  297 
Farmers'  cabbage,  133 

fruit  cake,  259 
Fig  dainty,  406 

dessert,  191 

filling,  274 

pudding,  391 

sandwiches,  288 
Figs,  359,  390 
Filipino  beef,  67 
Filling,  cake, 

cocoanut,  274 

chocolate,  273 

fig,  274 

fruit,  274 

lemon,  274 

marshmallow,  274 

orange,  274 
Fireless  cookery,  363-393 

bread  and  biscuits,  386,  387 

cereals,  364-367 

cakes,  388,  389 

desserts,  391-393 

fish,  370-372 

fruits,  390 

meats,  372-378 

soups,  367-370  * 

vegetables,  379-385 
Fish,  45-54,  370 

baked,  51,  371 

baked  fillets  of  halibut,  49 

baked  shad,  48 

boiled,  46 

boiled  salmon,  372 

broiled,  47 

broiled  oysters,  53 

clams,  50 

clam  fritters,  51 

cleaning,  46 

codfish,  49 

codfish  balls,  50,  371 

creamed  clams,  51 

[creamed  oysters,  52 

creamed  salmon,  50 

croquettes,  134 

cusk  a  la  creme,  134 

cutlets,  134 

deviled  crabs,  54 


,461 


INDEX 


Fish,  forcemeat  for  baked,  94 

fried,  47 

fried  oysters,  51 

fried  scallops,  50 

fried  smelts,  49 

frogs,  54 

lake  trout,  371 

lobster,  53,  402 

oyster  pie,  51 

oyster  stew,  52 

panned  oysters,  53 

planked  halibut,  48 

planked  lobster,  54 

planked  shad,  48 

salmon  surprise,  50 

salt-fish  dinner,  49 

scalloped  oysters,  52 

scalloped  salmon,  371 

shad  roe,  48 

shirred  oysters,  52 

stewed  terrapin,  53 

terrapin,  53 

turbot,  372 

white  fish,  371 
Fish,  in  fireless,  370 
Flaxseed  tea,  355 
Flowering  ice  cream,  204 
Foamy  sauce,  217 
Fondant,  301 
Food  groups,  4,  419 
Food  as  fuel,  3 
Food  values,  3;  417 
Foods,  served  in  place  of  meats, 
Forcemeats,  stuffings,  etc.,  93 

beef  forcemeat,  94 

bread  stuffing,  95 

caramel,  96 

chicken  forcemeat,  93 

drippings,  95 

ham  forcemeat,  93 

oyster  stuffing,  94 

potato  stuffing,  95 

prepared  bread  crumbs,  96 

quenelles,  93 

stuffing  for  baked  fish,  94 

suetine,  95 

veal  forcemeat,  94 
Frappe,  210 
French  dressing,  169 

tart,  280 
Fricasseeing,  61 
Fritter  batter,  159 
Fritters,  apple,  159 


119 


Fritters,  banana,  160 

beef  kromeskies,  160 

oyster,  159 

vegetable,  159 
Frizzle-dizzle,  404 
Frizzled  beef,  69 
Frog  saddles,  404 
Frogs,  54 
Frosting,  cake,  272,  273 

boiled,  272 

chocolate,  273 

divinity,  273 

maple  sugar,  273 

ornamental,  272 

plain,  272 
Frozen  cherries,  208 

cocoanut  custard,  205 

custard,  205 

fruits,  208 

peaches,  208 

pudding,  205 

raspberries,  208 

strawberries,  208 
Frozen  desserts,  203-212 

bisque  ice  cream,  206 

bombe  glace,  204 

cafe  frappe,  210 

cafe  parfait,  211 

caramel  ice  cream,  206 

cherry  mousse,  211 

chocolate  frappe,  210 

chocolate  ice  cream,  206 

chocolate  parfait,  211 

coffee  ice  cream,  206 

combination  sherbet,  209 

cranberry  frappe,  210 

currant  ice,  208 

economical  ice  cream,  204 

flowering  ice  cream,  204 

frozen  cherries,  208 

frozen  cocoanut  custard,  205 

frozen  custard,  205 

frozen  peaches,  208 

frozen  pudding,  205 

frozen  raspberries,  208 

frozen  strawberries,  208 

fruit  granite,  209 

ginger  frappe,  210 

grape-fruit  frappe,  210 

grape  sherbet,  209 

lemon  ice,  207 

lemon  ice  cream,  207 

lemon  sherbet,  209 


462 


INDEX 


Frozen  desserts,  making,  203 

maple  mousse,  212 

meringues  glace"es,  205 

mousse,  211 

orange  ice,  207 

orange  pekoe  sherbet,  210 

orange  sherbet,  209 

peach  ice  cream,  207 

pineapple  ice,  208 

pineapple  ice  cream,  207 

pineapple  mousse,  212 

strawberry  ice  cream,  207 

tutti-frutti  ice  cream,  206 

vanilla  ice  cream  I,  204 

vanilla  ice  cream  II,  204 
Fruit,  311 

and  nut  salad,  175 

cake,  259,  260 

cocktail,  24 

dried,  313,  390,  391 

drinks,  348 

filling,  274 

granite,  209 

juices,  349 

jumbles,  271 

preserving,  329 

prunes,  391 

punch,  349 

pyramids,  176 

salad,  175 

sandwiches,  288 

sauce,  216 

syrup,  349 
Fruits  glace,  305 
Frying,  60 
Fudge,  304 


Game,  83-90 
Giblet  sauce,  99 
Giblets,  84 
Ginger  drop  cakes,  266 

frappe,  210 

snaps,  269 

sponge,  263 
Gingerbread,  263,  389 

crisp,  270 

orange,  270 
Gluten  bread,  227 

gems,  244 
Gold  cake,  257 
Golden  buck,  114 
Gooseberries,  canned,  327 


Graham  bread,  225,  387 

muffins,  240 

mush,  365 

puffs,  244 

wafers,  243 
Grapes,  canned,  326 
Grape-fruit  and  pineapple  salad,  177 

cocktail,  24 

frappe,  210 

marmalade,  331 

salad,  177 
Grape  jelly,  336 

catsup,  341 

juice,  348 

sherbet,  209 
Green-grape  jelly,  336 
Green  peppers,  stuffed,  147 

tomato  sauce,  339 
Griddle  cakes,  246-248 

buckwheat,  247 

corn,  248 

crumb,  248 

oatmeal,  246 

rice,  248 

wheat,  246 
Grouse,  roasted,  89 
Gruel, 

arrowroot,  355 

cracker,  354 

egg,  354 

Indian,  354 

oatmeal,  353 

sago,  354 

Guests,  seating  the,  14 
Guinea  fowls,  88 
Guiso,  66 
Gumbo,  35 

H 

Half  puff-paste,  278 
Halibut  au  gratin,  412 

baked  fillets  of,  49 

planked,  48 
Ham  and  eggs,  77 

baked,  77 

boiled,  76,  376 

broiled,  77 

canapes,  25 

forcemeat,  93 

frizzled,  77 

patties,  162 

stewed,  77 
Hamburg  steak,  68 


INDEX 


Hard  sauce,  218 
Haricot  of  mutton,  74 
Hash,  131,  132 

baked,  131,  376 

corned  beef,  132 

creamed,  132 
Health  pie,  284 
Hints  on  serving,  17 
Hoarhound  candy,  307 
Hollandaise  sauce,  101 
Home  lunches,  449 
Hominy,  297,  365 

pudding,  184 
Horseradish  sauce,  102 
Hot  cakes,  246-249 

chocolate  sauce,  217 

cross  buns,  237 
Huckleberry  pudding,  197 
Hungarian  goulash,  67 
Hundred  calorie  portions,  433,  434 

I 

Ice  creams  and  ices,  203 
Icing,  272 
Imperial  sticks,  42 
India  curry,  70 
Indian  gruel,  354 

baked  pudding,  196 

boiled  pudding,  197 
Informal  dinner,  18 
Introductions,  13 
Invalid  cookery,  353 

albumenized  water,  356 

arrowroot,  355 

arrowroot  water,  355 

beef  pats,  360 

beef  tea,  353 

calf's  foot  jelly,  358 

chicken  panada,  360 

cracker  gruel,  354 

cream  toast,  357 

custard,  358 

egg  gruel,  354 

egg  milk-shake,  357 

flaxseed  tea,  355 

French  panada,  356 

Indian  gruel,  354 

koumiss,  359 

lamb  broth,  353 

lemon  foam,  358 

lemon  whey,  358 

milk  toast  I,  356 

milk  toast  II,  357 


Invalid  cookery,  oatmeal  gruel  I,  353 

oatmeal  gruel  II,  354 

oysters  on  toast,  360 

panada,  356 

potatoes  on  the  half-shell,  359 

rice  water,  356 

sago  gruel,  354 

soaked  crackers,  357 

squabs  or  any  small  birds,  360 

stewed  figs,  359 

sunshine  orange,  357 

tapioca,  359 

toast  water,  355 

whipped  apple  sauce,  358 
Invitations,  12 
Irish  stew,  75,  375 


Japan  sandwiches,  290 
Jellies,  334-336 
Jelly,  coffee,  187 
ff  apple,  335 

blackberry,  336 

currant,  336 

green-grape,  336 

lemon,  187 

mint,  335 

plum,  336 

quince,  335 

raspberry  and  currant,  336 

raspberry,  336 

ripe-grape,  336 

roll,  256 

sauce,  104 

strawberry,  336 

whipped,  187 
Jelly  making,  334 
Jiffy  pudding,  200 
Joyful  pudding,  189 
Julienne  soup,  38 
Jumbles,  270 
Junket,  cocoanut,  183 


Kale,  1401 
Karo  candy,  307 
Kedgaree,  115 
Kidneys,  79 
Kisses,  272 

walnut,  308 
Kneading,  221 
Kohl-rabi,  143 
Koumiss,  359 


464 


INDEX 


Lady  cabbage,  138 

cake,  261 

Lake  trout,  baked,  371 
Layer  cake,  259 
Lamb,  boiled  leg  of,  376 

boiling,  60 

broiling,  59 

broth,  353 

chops,  roasted,  376 

curry  of,  132 

cuts  of,  74 

en  casserole,  410 

fricasseeing,  61,  376 

frying,  60 

roasting,  59,  376 
Leeks,  141 
Left-overs,  131-134 

baked  hash,  131 

blanquette  of  chicken,  134 

corned-beef  hash,  132 

creamed  hash,  132 

curry  of  beef,  131  § 

curry  of  lamb,  132 

cusk  a  la  creme,  134 

farmers'  cabbage,  133 

fish  croquettes,  134 

fish  cutlets,  134 

mock  venison,  132 

potted  meat,  133 

scalloped  beef,  132 

scalloped  fish,  134 

serving  left-overs,  131 

stew  from  cold  meat,  133 

veal  cakes,  133 
Left-over  cereals,  to  use,  298 
Lemon  butter,  314 

cake,  259 

candied  peel,  306 

cream  pie,  281 

filling,  274 

foam,  358 

ice,  207 

ice  cream,  207 

jelly,  187 

meringue  pie,  280 

pie,  393 

sauce,  217 

sherbet,  209 

whey,  358 
Lemonade,  348 
Lentil  soup,  370 


465 


Lentils  a  la  Creole,  122 

baked,  122 

Lettuce  and  cream-cheese  sandwiches, 
289 

and  walnut  sandwiches,  289 

boiled,  140 

cream  of,  34 

salad,  170 
Lima  beans.  142,  382 

puree,  382 
Liver,  71-73 

and  bacon,  72 

braised,  72 

broiled,  72  j 

stewed,  73 

stuffed  calf's,  73 
Lobster,  53 

a  la  creme,  402 

cocktail,  23 

deviled,  402 

salad,  170 

stew,  402 

to  clean,  53 
Lunch  rolls,  239 
Luncheons,  11,  16 
Lunches, 

basket,  447 

home,  447 

picnic,  287 

school,  445 

M 

Macaroni,  baked,  125,  385 

boiled,  155 

in  ramekins,  411 

milanaise,  405 

rarebit,  399 

with  cheese,  125,  386 

with  tomatoes,  386 
Macaroons,  268 

cocoanut,  268 

nut,  268 

Maitre  d'hotel  butter,  101 
Maple  mousse,  112 

sugar  frosting,  273 
Marble  cake,  262 
Marine  salad,  175 
Marketing,  8 
Marmalades,  331 

grape-fruit,  331 

orange,  332 
Marshmallow  cake,  261 

filling,  274 


INDEX 


Marshmallows,  306 
Mayonnaise  dressing,  167 

colored,  168 

mock,  168 

white,  168 

Meals,  menus  for  a  week's,  414,  432 
Meat  croquettes,  164 

filling  for  sandwiches,  287 

patties,  162 

pot-pie,  78 

sandwiches,  287 
Meat  substitutes,  119-128 

almonds  with  eggs,  128 

baked  beans,  123 

baked  crackers  with  cheese,  125 

baked  lentils,  122 

baked  macaroni  with  cheese,  125 

baked  rice,  126 

beans,  Mexican,  124 

Boston  roast,  124 

cheese  rolls,  126 

cheese  souffle,  126 

corn  and  cheese  souffle,  125 

cottage  cheese,  124 

dinners  without  meat,  120 

dried  beans  saute,  123 

dried  peas,  beans,  lentils,  121 

English  rice,  126 

foods  served  in  place  of  meat,  119 

lentils  a  la  Creole,  122 

migas,  125 

nut  and  cheese  relish,  177 

nut  and  fruit  cheese,  127 

nut  roast,  127 

nut  souffle,  128 

peanut  butter,  127 

pimiento  roast,  124 

puree  of  dried  beans,  123 

vegetable  meat  pie,  128 
Meats,  57,  372 

methods  of  cooking,  59-61 

purchasing,  57 

various  cuts,  58,  71,  74,  76 

in  fireless,  372 
Menu  and  table,  15 

for  full  course  dinner,  15,  16 
Menu  making,  combinations  for,  80 
Menus,  15,  16 

for  dinners  without  meat,  120 

for  a  week,  414,  432,  452 
Meringues,  271 

glacees,  205 
Mexican  beef,  66 


Mexican  caramels,  305 

rarebit,  399 
Migas,  125 
Milk  bread,  224 

toast,  356 

Milk-shake,  egg,  357 
Mince-meat,  283 
Mint  jelly,  335 

sauce,  100 
Mixed  fruit  cocktail,  24 

pickle  dressing,  339 

pickles,  339 
Mixing,  cake,  253 
Mocha  Torte,  264 
Mock  charlotte,  183 

crab  sandwiches,  290 

cream,  218 

duck,  65 

Mayonnaise,  168 

pound  cake,  260 

rabbit,  65 

turtle,  35 

venison,  132 
Molasses  cake,  263 

candy,  302,  303 
Molletfe,  249 
Moravian  cake,  235 
Mt.  Clements  rarebit,  399 
Mountain-dew  pudding,  186 
Mousse,  211 
Muffins,  240,  243 

corn,  242 

egg,  243 

English,  240 

Graham,  240 

oatmeal,  241 

rice,  242 

Sally  Lunn,  241 

wheat,  241 
Mullagatawny,  37 
Mush,  296 

barley,  365 

cornmeal,  296 

fried,  296 

graham,  365 
Mushroom  catsup,  341 

sauce,  103 
Mushrooms  a  la  poulette,  150 

baked,  150 

broiled,  149 

stewed,  149 

with  bacon,  405 
Mutton,  boiling,  60 


466 


INDEX 


Mutton,  braising,  61 
broiling,  59 
chops  with  peas,  75 
cuts  of,  74 
haricot  of,  74 
Irish  stew,  75,  375 
leg  of,  376 
mock  venison,  132 
pot-pie,  78 
purchasing,  73 
ragout  of,  75 
roasting,  59 
shoulder,  boiled,  74 
shoulder,  stuffed,  73 
soup,  36 

N 

Nasturtium  salad,  172 
Nasturtium  seeds,  pickled,  341 
Newmarket  pudding,  194 
Noodle  soup,  39 
Normandy  salad,  175 
Nougat,  302 
Novel  tomato  salad,  171 
Nut  and  cheese  relish,  177 

and  fruit  cheese,  127 

and  raisin  sandwiches,  288 

bread,  228 

butter,  127 

cake,  389 

macaroons,  268 

roast,  127 

sandwiches,  288 

souffle,  128 
Nuts  glace,  305 

0 
Oat  cakes,  266 

cookies,  267 
Oatmeal,  295,  366 

bread,  226 

griddle  cakes,  246 

gruel,  353,  354 

muffins,  241 

porridge,  295 

with  baked  apple,  296 

with  cheese,  296 
October  salad,  176 
Okra,  147 

Olive  sandwiches,  288 
Omelet,  baked,  113 

cheese,  113 

codfish,  113 

corn,  112 


467 


Omelet,  crumb,  112 

ham,  111 

oyster,  113 

plain,  110 

rice,.lll 

'savory,  111 

sweet,  112 

tomato,  112 
One-egg  cake,  260 

waffles,  245 
Onions,  boiled,  144,  382 

fried,  145 

scalloped,  145 

stewed,  144 

Open-kettle  method,  323 
Orange  cake,  257 

filling,  274 

gingerbread,  270 

ice,  207 

marmalade,  332 

paste,  306 

pekoe  sherbet,  210 

pudding,  184 

sauce,  105 

sherbet,  209 

Ornamental  frosting,  272 
Oven  scones,  237 
Overweight,  causes  of,  437 
Ox  eyes,  114 
Ox-tail  soup,  36 
Oyster  bouillon,  31 

cocktail,  23 

fritters,  159 

pan-roast,  401 

pie,  51 

sauce,  103 

soup,  31 

stew,  52 
Oysters,  broiled,  53 

brown  fricassee  of,  411 

creamed,  52 

creamed  with  celery,  401 

fried,  51 

on  toast,  360 

panned,  53,  401 

roasted,  401 

scalloped,  52,  411 

shirred,  52 


Panada,  356 
chicken,  360  : 
French,  356 


INDEX 


Parfait,  211 

Parker-House  rolls,  239 
Parsnips,  143,  382 
Partridges,  89 
Pastry  and  pies,  277 
Pastry  tube,  to  use,  272 
Patriotic  cake  (1776  recipe),  264 
Patties,  162,  163 

chicken,  162 

ham,  162 

meat,  162 
Patty  shells,  163 
Pea,  cream  of,  33 
Peach  butter,  334 

cobbler,  198 

cocktail,  25 

crusts,  279 

ice  cream,  207 

patties,  195 

pie,  283 

pudding,  193 

tart,  283 
Peaches,  baked,  312 

canned,  327 

dried,  390 

stewed,  312 
Peanut  brittle,  303 

butter,  127 

cakes,  271 

salad,  176 
Pea-pod  soup,  33 
Peas,  green,  142,  382 

dried,  121 

sugar,  142 
Pears,  baked,  312 

canned,  325,  328 

dried,  391 

spiced,  333 
Peggy  cake,  257 
Pepper  and  cream  cheese  salad,  172 

pot,  37 

Peppermints,  cream,  305 
Peppernuts,  267 
Peppers,  pickled,  340 

stuffed,  384 

Perfect  cream  wafers,  243 
Pettijohn's  breakfast  food,  366 
Pheasants,  89 
Pickle  for  corning  beef,  64 
Pickled  beets,  144 

cherries,  333 

cucumbers,  341 

peppers,  340 


Pickled  tomatoes,  340 
Pickles  and  catsup,  339 

Chili  sauce,  340 

grape  catsup,  341 

green  tomato  sauce,  339 

mixed  pickle,  339 

mixed-pickle  dressing,  339 

mushroom  catsup,  341 

pickled  cucumbers,  341 

pickled  nasturtium  seeds,  341 

pickled  peppers,  340 

pickled  tomatoes,  340 

tomato  catsup,  340 
Picnic  lunches,  287 
Pie  crust,  277-279 
Pies,  280-284 

apple  pie,  282,  393 

baking,  277 

Bethlehem  apple  tart,  282 

cheese  cake,  282 

cherry  pie,  282,  393 

cocoanut  custard,  282 

cranberry  tart,  281 

custard  pie,  281,  393 

health  pie,  284 

lemon  cream  pie,  281 

lemon  meringue  pie,  280,  393 

mince  meat,  283 

peach  pie,  283 

peach  tart,  283 

pigeon  pie,  87 

pumpkin  pie,  280,  393 

raisin  pie,  281 

rhubarb  pie,  280 

squash  (pumpkin),  280 

vegetable  meat,  128 

Washington  pie,  283 
1  Pigeon  pie,  87 
Pigs'  feet  in  jelly,  78 
Pigs  in  blankets,  401 
Pimiento  bisque,  40 

roast,  124 
Pineapple  and  banana  cocktail,  24 

canned,  328 

ice,  208 

ice  cream,  207 

mousse,  212 
Pinoche,  303 
Piquante  sauce,  100 
Plain  cake,  258 

frosting,  272 

paste,  279 
Planked  chops,  75 
468  L-I 


INDEX 


Planked  lobster,  54 

Salisbury  steak,  64 

shad,  48 

steak  with  oysters,  64 
Plums,  canned,  327 
Plum  jelly,  336 
Poached  eggs,  109 
Pop-corn  balls,  305 
Pop-overs,  244 
Porridge,  295 
Pork  chops,  76 

cuts  of,  76 

roast,  76,  377 

salt,  in  milk,  78 

tenderloin,  377 
Pot  pie,  78 

roast,  62 
Potato  balls,  152 

cakes,  152 

cream  of,  32 

croquettes,  152 

flour  cake,  256 

puff,  154 

salad,  172 

soup,  369 
Potatoes  au  gratin,  153 

baked,  151,  383 

baked  sweet,  385     . 

boiled,  150 

browned,  153 

candied  sweet,  154 

creamed,  152,  383 

French  fried,  151 

fried  sweet,  154 

hashed  brown,  154 

lyonnaise,  153 

mashed,  151,  383 

new  in  cream,  152 

on  the  half -shell,  359 

scalloped,  153,  383 

steamed,  151,  383 

stuffed,  151 
Potted  meat,  133 
Poultry  and  game,  83 

marketing,  83 

to  dress,  83 

to  stuff,  84 

to  truss,  84 
Pound  cake,  257 
Pralines,  304 
Preserved  cherries,  330 

pineapple,  331 

plums  and  green  gages,  330 

31 


Preserved  strawberries,  330 

strawberries  and  pineapple,  37 

yellow-  tomatoes,  332 
Preserving  and  canning,  317-336 
Preserving  fruit,  317 
Principles  of  cookery,  3 
Prune  whip,  189 
Prunes,  391 
Puddings  and  desserts,  181 

almond  cream,  185 

apple  meringue,  191 

apple  pudding,  196 

apple  snow,  186 

apple  tapioca,  190 

baked  flour  pudding,  193 

baked  Indian  pudding  I,  196 

baked  Indian  pudding  II,  196 

Bavarian  cream,  188 

berry  charlotte,  191 

berry  pudding,  197 

blanc  mange,  184 

boiled  custard,  181 

boiled  Indian  pudding,  197 

bread-and-butter  pudding,  192 

bread  pudding,  192,  391 

bridge-whist  pudding,  188 

brown  Betty,  193 

brown-bread  pudding,  195 

canned-peach  pudding,  195 

caramel  custard,  186 

charlotte  russe,  189 

cherry  pudding,  392 

cherry  tapioca,  191 

chocolate  charlotte,  190 

chocolate  eclairs,  199 

chocolate  pudding,  183 

cocoanut  cornstarch,  183 

cocoanut  junket,  183 

cocoanut  tapioca,  185 

coffee  jelly,  187 

cornstarch  pudding,  182 

cottage  pudding,  192,  391 

cream  puffs,  199 

cream  for  puffs,  199 

cup  custards,  186 

date  sponge,  198 

delicate  pudding,  190 

English  plum  pudding,  194 

fig  dessert,  191 

fig  pudding,  391 

hominy  pudding,  184 

huckleberry  pudding,  197 

in  fireless,  391 


469 


INDEX 


Puddings  and  desserts,  jiffy  pudding, 
200 

joyful  pudding,  189 

lemon  jelly,  187 

mock  charlotte,  183 

mountain-dew  pudding,  186 

Newmarket  pudding,  194 

orange  pudding,  184 

peach  cobbler,  198 

peach  patties,  195 

peach  pudding,  193 

prune  whip,  189 

queen  of  puddings,  193 

raisin  puff,  194 

realengo,  190 

rice  blanc  mange,  184 

rice  meringue  I,  182 

rice  meringue  II,  182 

rice  pudding,  181 

savarin,  198 

Spanish  cream,  188 

sponge-cake  pudding,  196 

steamed  fruit  pudding,  197 

strawberry  trifle  I,  187 

strawberry  trifle  II,  187 

suet  pudding  I,  195 

suet  pudding  II,  195 

tapioca  custard,  185,  392 

walnut  and  date  dainty,  199 

whipped  jelly,  187 

whips,  189 
Puff-paste,  277 
Pulled  bread,  42 
Pumpkin  pie,  280,  393 
Punch,  346,  349 
•  fruit,  349  • 

five  o'clock,  350 

frozen,  209,  210 

tea,  346 

Purchasing  beef,  62 
Puree  of  dried  beans,  123 
Purpose  of  cooking,  5 


Quail,  404 

Queen  of  puddings,  193 
Quenelles,  93 
Quince  jelly,  335 
Quinces,  baked,  312 

canned,  328 

stewed,  312 


Rabbit,  88 

curried,  164 

mock,  65 

panned,  88 
Raisin  bread,  229 

compote,  332 

pie,  281 

puff,  194 

Ralston's  breakfast  food,  366 
Rarebit,  114,  398 
Raspberries  and  currants,  326 

canned,  325 

stewed,  313 
Raspberry  and  currant  jelly,  336 

cocktail,  24 

jelly,  336 

sauce,  219 

vinegar,  349 
Rations,  balanced,  417 
Realengo,  190 

Recipe  proportions,  table  of,  250 
Reheating  vegetables,  156 
Relish,  nut  and  cheese,  177 
Rhubarb  pie,  280 

stewed,  313 

Ribbon  sandwiches,  289 
Rice  and  figs,  366 

baked,  126 

blanc  mange,  184 

boiled,  297,  366 

bread,  225 

cakes,  248 

English,  126 

in  milk,  297 

in  ramekins.  411 

meringue,  182 

muffins,  242 

pudding,  181 

water,  356 
Rinktum  ditty,  398 
Ripe-grape  jelly,  336 
Rissoles,  160 
Rhubarb,  stewed,  313 
Roasting,  59 
Rock  cakes,  almond,  267 
Rolled  dumplings,  249 

steak,  65 

wheat,  366 
Rolls,  dinner,  239 

lunch,  239 

Parker  House,  239 
tea,  238 


470 


INDEX 


Roman  gnocchi,  160 
Round  steak  on  biscuits,  373 
Rusk,  235 
Russian  tea,  346 
Rye  bread,  227 


Sago  gruel,  354 

Salad  dressing,  cooked,  168 

dressing,  cream,  168 

dressing,  French,  169 

dressing,  in  large  quantity,  169 

dressing,  Mayonnaise,  167,  168 
Salads,  167 

banana  dainty,  177 

banana  salad,  176 

beet  salad,  173 

cauliflower  salad,  174 

chicken  salad,  169 

cold  slaw,  173 

cold-slaw  dressing,  173 

colored  Mayonnaise,  168 

combination  salad,  171 

cooked     dressing     (mock    Mayon- 
naise), 168 

cream  dressing,  168 

cucumber  salad,  173 

deviled  eggs,  171 

egg  salad,  172 

French  dressing,  169 

fruit  and  nut  salad,  175 

fruit  pyramids,  176 

fruit  salad,  175 

grape-fruit  and  pineapple,  177 

grape-fruit  salad,  177 

lettuce  salad,  170 

lobster  salad,  170 

making  salads,  167 

marine  salad,  175 

Mayonnaise  dressing,  167 

nasturtium  salad,  172 

Normandy  salad,  175 

novel  tomato  salad,  171 

October  salad,  176 

peanut  salad,  176 

pepper  and  cream  cheese  salad,  172 

potato  salad  I,  172 

potato  salad  II,  172 

salad  dressing  in  large  quantity,  169 

sardine  salad,  170 

shrimp  salad,  170 

salmagundi  salad,  174     - 

salmon  salad,  170 


Salads,  tomato  jelly,  171 

tomato  surprises,  169 

tulip  salad,  177 

walnut  salad,  176 

water-lily  salad,  17^ 

watermelon  salad,  175 

white  Mayonnaise,  175 

winter  salad,  174 
Sally  Lunn,  241 
Salmagundi  salad,  174 
Salmi  of  game,  164 
Salmon  au  gratin,  412 

boiled,  372 

creamed,  50 

salad,  170 

scalloped,  371 

surprise,  50 
Salsify,  143 
Salt  fish  dinner,  49 

pork  in  milk,  78 

rising  bread,  225 
Salted  almonds,  292,  406 

peanuts,  292 
Sand  tarts,  271 
Sandwiches,  287 

anchovy,  288 

Bohemian,  287 

caviar,  290 

cheese  filling  for,  291 

club,  291 

combination,  291 

date  and  fig,  288 

egg,  289 

egg  and  olive  I,  290 

egg  and  olive  II,  290 

fig,  288 

fruit,  288 

Japan,  290 

lettuce  and  cream-cheese,  289 

lettuce  and  walnut,  289 

meat,  287 

meat  filling  for,  287 

mock  crab,  290 

nut,  288 

nut  and  raisin,  288 

olive,  288 

ribb9n,  289 

sardine,  290 

surprise,  289 

sweet,  289 
Sardine  salad,  170 

sandwiches,  290 

savory,  403 


471 


INDEX 


Sardines,  creamed,  404 
Sauces,  99 

anchovy,  102 

apple,  i05 

bechamel,  104 

bread,  100 

brown,  99 

browning  for,  106 

caper,  103 

celery,  104 

cranberry,  104 

cream,  100 

cream,  with  mushrooms,  100 

cream  of  tomato,  102 

curry,  101 

drawn  butter,  101 

egg,  100 

giblet,  99 

Hollandaise,  101 

horseradish,  102 

jelly,  104 

mattre  d'hotel  butter,  101 

mint,  100 

mushroom,  103 

orange,  105 

oyster,  103 

piquante,  100 

supreme,  103 

stewed  cranberries,  104 

sweet,  215 

Tartare,  101 

tomato,  102 

white,  102 
Sauces  to  serve  with  meats,  fish,  etc. 

105 

Sauer  kraut,  384 
Sauteing,  61 
Savarin,  198 
Savories,  287,  292 
Scallops,  fried,  50 
Scones,  237,  238 
School  lunches,  445 
School  lunch  room  bills  of  fare,  448 
Scotch  oat  cake,  244 

short  bread,  230 
Serving,  hints  on,  17 
Shad,  baked,  48 

planked,  48 

roe,  48 

Shellbark  cake,  258 
Sherbets,  209 

Shin  meat  en  casserole,  412 
Short  cake,  fancy,  284 


472 


Short  cake,  plain,  284 

strawberry,  200 
Shrimp  &  la  creme,  403 

salad,  170 

wiggle,  397 
Silver  cake,  258 
Smelts,  fried,  49 
Snippy-doodle,  263 
Souffle,  cheese,  126 

corn  and  cheese,  125 

nut,  128 

Soups,  in  fireless,  367 
Soups,  to  serve  with,  41 

croutons,  41 

imperial  sticks,  42 

pulled  bread,  42 
Soups,  29,  367 

barley,  38 

bean,  368 

beef,  35 

beef  bouillon,  30 

black-bean,  39 

bouillon,  370 

cheese,  36 

chicken  broth,  30 

chicken  gumbo,  37 

chicken  soup,  368 

chile  bisque,  32 

clam,  32 

clam  chowder,  41 

clam  bouillon,  31 

corn  chowder,  41 

corn  soup,  368 

consomme,  30 

cream  of  potato,  32 

cream  of  tomato,  33 

cream  of  pea,  33 

cream  stock,  30 

cream  of  celery,  33,  369 

cream  of  asparagus,  33 

cream  of  corn  I,  34 

cream  of  corn  II,  34 

cream  of  pea,  370 

cream  of  spinach,  34 

cream  of  lettuce,  34 

economical,  38 

gumbo,  35 

Julienne,  38 

lentil,  370 

meat  stock,  29 

mock  turtle,  35 

mullagatawny,  37 

mutton,  36 


INDEX 


Soups,  noodle,  39 

ox-tail,  36 

oyster  bouillon,  31 

oyster  I,  31 

oyster  II,  32 

peapod,  33 

pepper  pot,  37 

pimiento  bisque,  40 

potato,  369 

stock,  29,  30,  367 

tomato,  39,  368 

turkey-bone,  36 

turtle,  369 

vegetable  stock,  29 

vegetable  I,  40,  369 

vegetable  II,  40 

vermicelli,  38 
Sour  beef,  68 

cream  biscuit,  243 

milk  biscuit,  244 

milk  cake,  389 
Spanish  beefsteak,  66 

bun,  265 

cream,  188 
Spiced  currants,  332 

pears,  333 
Spinach,  140,  384 

cream  of,  34 
Sponge  cake,  255,  256,  388 

cake  pudding,  196 

ginger  cake,  263 
Squabs  or  any  small  birds,  360 
Squash,  148,  384 

baked,  148 

pie,  280 

steamed,  148 

Steamed  fruit  pudding,  197 
Stew  from  cold  meat,  133 

Irish,  75 

Stewing  meat,  61 
Stock  for  soup,  29,  30,  367 

cream  stock,  30 

meat,  29 

scramble,  400 

vegetable,  29 
Strawberries  and  pineapple,  330 

preserved,  330 
Strawberries  in  the  sun,  330 
Strawberry  cocktail,  24 

ice  cream,  207 

jelly,  336 

short  cake,  200 

trifle,  187 


473 


String  beans,  384 
Stuffing,  bread,  95 

for  baked  fish,  94 

oyster,  94 

potato,  95 

Substitutes  for  meat,  119-128 
Succotash,  149 
Suetine,  95 
Suet  pudding,  195 
Sunshine  orange,  357 
Supreme  sauce,  103 
Surprise  cake,  262 

sandwiches,  289 
Sweet  French  buns,  236 
Sweet  sandwiches,  289 
Sweet  sauces,  215 

brown-sugar  sauce,  216 

caramel  sauce  I,  215 

caramel  sauce  II,  215 

cherry  sauce  for  ices,  212 

chocolate  sauce,  218 

cream  sauce,  215 

custard  sauce,  215 

egg  sauce,  216 

foamy  sauce,  217 

fruit  sauce,  216 

hard  sauce  I,  218 

hard  sauce  II,  218 

hot  chocolate  sauce  I,  217 

hot  chocolate  sauce  II,  217 

lemon- sauce,  217 

mock  cream,  218 

raspberry  sauce,  217 

table  syrup,  249 

vanilla  sauce,  217 

whipped  cream,  216 
Sweetbreads,  broiled,  79 

in  fireless,  377 

stewed,  79 
Syrup,  chocolate,  347 

table,  249 
Syrups,  fruit,  in  canning,  321 


Table  syrup,  249 

Tables  of  height,  weight,  age, 
for  men  and  women,  441,  442 
for  boys  and  girls.  450,  451 

Table  of  energy  needs,  425 
calorie  portions,  433,  434 
food  nutrients,  4 
recipe  proportions,  250 


INDEX 


Tapioca,  359 

and  apples,  392 

custard,  185,  392 
Tart,  Bethlehem,  282 

cranberry,  281 

French,  280 

peach,  283 

sand,  271 

torto  frutas,  279 
Tartlets,  279 
Tartare  sauce,  101 
Tea,  346 

beef,  353 

biscuits,  238,  387 

iced,  347 

punch,  346 

Russian,  346 

rolls,  238 

Tea  ring,  currant,  233 
Terrapin,  53,  400 
Three-egg  waffles,  246 
Timbale  of  macaroni,  161 

cases,  161 

rice,  161 

Tune  tables  for  blanching  and  steriliz- 
ing, 323 
Toast,  cinnamon,  291 

cream,  357 

egg,  291 

milk,  356 

water,  355 
Tomato  catsup,  340 

cream  of,  33 

curry,  405 

jelly,  171 

salad  (combination),  171 

salad  (novel),  171 

sauce,  102 

scramble,  464 

soup,  39,  418 

surprise,  169 
Tomatoes,  boiled,  385 

fried,  146 

scalloped,  145 

stewed,  145,  385 

stuffed,  145 
Tongue,  boiled,  69,  377 

smoked,  boiled,  70 
Torto  frutas,  279 
Tripe,  79 
Tulip  salad,  177 
Turbot,  372 
Turkey,  roast,  87 


474 


Turkey,  bone  soup,  36 
Turkish  pilaf,  146 
Turnips,  boiled,  142,  385 
Turtle  soup,  369 
Tutti-frutti,  334 
ice  cream,  206 


Vanilla  Ice  cream,  204 

sauce,  217 
Veal  and  rice,  378 

rakes,  133 

calf's  head,  70 

croquettes,  377 

curry  of,  70,  377 

cuts  of,  71 

forcemeat,  94 

India  curry,  70 

liver,  71 

loaf,  70,  378 

pot-pie,  78 

roast,  378 

rolls,  428 

with  asparagus  tips,  404 

with  rice,  378 
Vegetable  fritters,  159 

hash,  155 

meat  pie,  128 

soup,  40,  369 

stock,  29 
Vegetables,  137-156 

in  fireless,  379 

reheating,  156 
Venison,  haunch  of,  roasted,  89 

mock,  132 

neck  and  shoulder,  89 

steak,  90 

Vermicelli  soup,  38 
Vinegar,  celery,  178 

mint,  178 

tarragon,  178 

raspberry,  349 
Vitamins,  420 
Vol-au-vent,  163 

W 

Wafers,  chocolate,  269 

Graham,  243 

perfect  cream,  243 
Waffles,  one  egg,  245 

three  egg,  246 

with  yeast,  245 


INDEX 


Walnut  and  date  dainty,  199 

bread,  228 

kisses,  308 

salad,  176 

Washington  pie,  283 
Water-lily  salad,  174 
Watermelon  salad,  175 
Weight-control,  diet  for,  437 
Weight,  how  to  add,  439 

how  to  reduce,  437 

tables,  441,  450,  451 
Welsh  rarebit,  114,  126,  398 
Wheat  cereals,  296 

griddle  cakes,  246 

muffins,  241 
Whey,  lemon,  358 
Whipped  apple  sauce,  358 
Whipped  cream,  216 
Whipped  jelly,  187 


Whips,  187 

White  bread  in  bread-mixer,  224 

bread,  over  night,  223 

bread,  quick  method,  223 

bread,  sponge  method,  223 

cup  cake,  261 

fish,  boiled,  371 

Mayonnaise,  168 

sauce,  102 

soup  stock,  367 
Winter  salad,  174 


Yeast,  222 

Yorkshire  pudding,  62 


Zwieback,  245 


475 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

2  gflls  =  1  cup 
2  cups  =  l  pint 
2  pints  =  1  quart 
4  quarts  =  1  gallon 
16  ounces  =  1  pound 
8  quarts- 1  peck 
4  pecks=»l  bushel 


EQUIVALENT  MEASURES 

4  level  saltspoons—1  level  teaspoon 

3  level  teaspoons  =  1  level  tablespoon 
16  level  tablespoons  =  1  cup 

1  wineglass  =  IA  gill 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  =  1  pound 
2  solid  cups  butter =1  pound 

4  cups  flour- 1  pound 

1  cup  raisins  or  currants'"  6  ounces 


GOOD  TO  REMEMBER 

One  teaspoon  or  tablespoon  means  a  level  teaspoon  or  tablespoon. 

A  tin,  aluminum  or  glass  measuring  cup  should  be  used  for  all  measuring.  These 
cups  are  marked  off  in  quarters  and  thirds  and  insure  accuracy. 

Aluminum  cooking  utensils  are  the  best  for  general  use.  They  are  expensive 
in  the  beginning,  but  outwear  other  kinds.  They  are  light  in  weight  and  easily 
cleaned,  and  there  ia  no  enamel  to  chip  off  and  poison  the  food. 

Discolored  pans  and  kettles,  not  aluminum,  should  be  boiled  in  water  to  which 
a  lump  of  washing  soda  has  been  added. 

Scrupulous  cleanliness  and  eternal  vigilance  are  the  essentialsof  all  goodcooking. 

If  the  oven  becomes  too  hot  while  bread  or  cake  is  baking,  it  may  be  cooled  by 
setting  a  pan  of  water  in  it 

If  bread  or  cake  browns  too  quickly,  cover  with  a  piece  of  paper. 

Pies  should  always  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven,  with  the  greatest  heat  at  the  bottom. 

Cakes  will  seldom  stick  if  this  direction  is  followed :  Grease  the  pans  carefully  ; 
dust  lightly  with  flour;  shake  out  the  superfluous  flour  and  pour  in  the  mixture. 

Muffins  and  gems  will  be  lighter  if  baked  in  pans  that  have  been  thoroughly 
heated  as  well  as  greased. 

Biscuit  dough  should  be  as  soft  as  possible.  Biscuits  will  be  lighter  and 
crisper  if  not  allowed  to  touch  each  other  on  the  baking  tin. 

Meat  should  never  be  put  in  cold  water  except  in  making  soup,  for  cold  water 
draws  put  the  juices.  Wipe  with  a  wet  cloth,  or  rinse  and  dry  at  once,  and  in  cooking 
use  boiling  water. 

Tomatoes  that  are  too  strongly  acid  are  improved  by  a  pinch  of  baking  soda. 
The  soda  should  always  be  added  when  they  are  to  be  mixed  with  tnillr  or  cream, 
to  prevent  curdling. 

The  white  of  eggs  will  whip  more  readily  if  a  pinch  of  salt  is  added.  The  eggs 
should  be  as  cold  as  possible. 

Cream  that  is  too  thin  to  whip  may  be  made  to  do  so  by  the  addition  of  aa 
unbeaten  white  of  egg. 

When  dipping  articles  hi  egg  and  cracker,  dilute  the  egg  with  a  tablespoon  of 
water.  Only  the  white  may  be  used,  if  desired,  but  never  only  the  yolk,  as  it  is  the 
albumen  which  is  needed  to  form  a  coat  which  the  grease  cannot  penetrate. 

Almost  any  dish  is  made  more  inviting  by  a  little  garnishing.  Parsley,  water- 
cress, slices  of  lemon,  bfcet,  onion,  hard-boiled  egg  or  maraschino  cherry,  small 
triangles  of  toast,  potato  balls,  mashed  potatoes  pressed  through  a  pastry  tube — 
all  these  are  useful  and  within  reach  of  almost  every  cook.  Paper  doilies,  paper 
cups,  and  paper  frills  for  chops  may  also  be  used  to  good  advantage:  these  may  to 
bought  at  any  stationer's. 


Protected  Under 

UNITED  STATES  PATENT  RIGHTS  OP 
AUGUST  27, 1918 

June  4, 1907 

DOMINION  OF  CANADA  PATENT  RIGHTS  OF 
JUNE  24, 1919 


