Coof<Boof< 


m    m 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 
^jf&- — 

<L_L_„  Copyright  No. 


Chap,__!__T_  Copyright 
Shelt_.Mj 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


Hie   Great   Southern,   Cook  Booh! 


MRS.  HILL'S 
NEW    COOK-BOOK; 

oa,  * 

Housekeeping     Made     Easy. 

A     PRACTICAL     SYSTEM 

FOR   PRIVATE  FAMILIES,  IN  TOWN  AND  COUNTRY 

ESPECIALLY   ADAPTED  TO 

THE    SOUTHERN    STATES. 

WITH  DIRECTIONS  FOB 

CARVING  AND  ARRANGING   THE  TABLE   FOR 
DINNERS,  PARTIES,  Etc 

TOGETHER   WITH 

Many  Medical  and  Miscellaneous  Receipts  extremely  useful 
in  Families. 

By    MRS.  A.  P.   HILL, 

WIDOW  OF  HOM.  EDWARD  T.  HILL, 

Of  GEORGIA. 


A    New    and    Enlarged    Edition. 


NEW    YORK: 
G     W.    Dillingham     Co.,    Publishers. 

MDCCCXCVIII. 

2nd  COPY, 

1flQQ 


4<V 


193 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1870,  by 

MRS.  A.  P.  HILL, 

In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of   the  United  States  for  the  Southern 
i  District  of  New  York. 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1898,  by 

FANNIE   B.   WALKER, 

In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress  at  Washington,  D,  C. 


Mrs.  Hill  s  New  Cook  Book, 


INTRODUCTION. 


Till  book  which  meets  the  wants  of  the  times  deservM  a  plaot 
in  ever j  household,  and  the  writer  who,  in  these  degenerate  days, 
contributes  to  the  pleasures,  and  at  the  same  time  advances  th€ 
real  welfare,  of  the  race,  deserves  a  place  in  the  Calendar  with  all 
the  benefactors  of  the  age.  "  The  Southern  Practical  Cook 
*ry  and  Receipt  Book"  comes  up  to  the  standard  here  laid 
down. 

In  reading  the  advertisements  in  our  daily  papers,  the  eye  fre- 
quently falls  upon  something  like  this: — "  Wanted,  A  good  Cook.* 
rhis  is  a  universal  want,  and  one  that  must,  to  some  extent,  be  sup 
plied.  We  are  an  eating  race,  and  people  will  eat ;  they  have  been 
educated  to  eat.  Indeed,  hitherto  we  have  lived  by  this  process,  and 
jven  now  there  appears  no  sign  among  the  improvements  of  the  age, 
)f  such  a  reformation  as  will  dispense  with  "  table  comforts." 
f  lappy  is  that  family  that  has  this  want  gratified.  I  do  not  mean 
hat  we  are  an  Epicurean  race ;  so  far  from  it,  indeed,  that  then 
ire  no  visible  tendencies  in  that  direction,  and  it  is  hoped  none  will 
wer  appear.  But  man  is  an  animal,  and  all  animals  must  eat ; 
md  although  it  is  written  of  him,  "Thou  shalt  not  live  by  bread 
tlone,w  yet,  a  bountiful  Providence  has  decreed  seed  time  and 
*ar\  est,  bread  earned  by  the  sweat  of  his  brow,  and  a  table  of 
olenty. 

The  forest  grows  timber,  but  it  must  be  cut  and  dressed  be 
ore  it  is  prepared  for  the  temple ;  the  quarries  furnish  the  stonea^ 


©  INTRODUCTION. 

but  the  workman  must  hew  and  polish  them  before  they  are  fit 
for  the  building;  and  so  nature,  cultiTated,  furnishes  the  food 
but  art  must  dress  and  prepare  it  before  it  is  ready  foi  the  palate 
and  digestion.     We  are  not  just  now  in  a  condition  to  sacrifiot 
much  to  fancy  or  ornament ;  we  must  address  ourselves  to  the 
useful  and  substantial.  Every  mother,  wife,  and  daughter  must  now 
become  a  practical  operator  in  the  domestic  circle.     Each  should 
be  emulous  to  excel  in  neatness,  industry,  usefulness  and  economy 
The  days  for  romance  have  passed,  if  they  ever  existed ;  the  night 
for  the  dreamy  visions  of  elegance  and  luxury  in  connection  with 
a  life  of  indolence  has  suddenly  given  place  to  the  day  of  enter- 
prise and  industry.     A  crisis  is  upon  us  which  demands  the  de- 
velopment of  the  will  and  energy  of  Southern  character.     Its  prea 
tige  in  the  past  gives  earnest  of  a  successful  future.     As  woman 
has  been  queen  in  the  parlor,  so,  if  need  be,  she  will  be  queen  in 
the  kitchen ;  as  she  has  performed  so  gracefully  the  duties  of  mis 
tress  of  the  establishment  in  the  past,  so  she  will,  with  a  lovelier 
grace,  perform  whatever  labor  duty  demands.     She  has  learned 
that  the  services  of  a  good  cook,  that  queen  of  the  kitchen,  are  es- 
sential elements  in  the  health,  the  good  temper,  the  enjoyment 
and  peace  of  every  family ;  that  the  art  of  Cooking  is  the  parent 
of  all  other  arts,  and  eating  and  drinking  the  highest  of  all  animal 
enjoyments.     The  race  of  good  cooks  among  us  is  almost  extinct. 
What  shall  be  done  to  bring  back  the  good  old  times,  when  a 
knowledge  of  the  good  housewifery  demanded  for  the  health  and 
comfort  of  ever)'  family  was  not  considered  too  low  for  the  atten* 
r  tion  of  any  lady  ?     Labor  should  not  be  held  in  disrepute  by  any 
for  it  is  written  "  hi  the  sweat  of  thy  brow  shalt  thou  earn  bread  ;* 
and  again,  "Not  slothful  in  business ;"  i.r.d  still  again,  "But  il 
tny  man  provides  not  for  his  owr,  and  especially  for  his  '-  w» 


INTRODUCTION  1 

house  (or  kindred)  he  hath  denied  the  faith  and  is  worse  th*»a  an 
infidel.''  The  v*  :>rd  "  he  "  in  the  hist  quotation  is  generic,  and 
standi  as  the  representative  of  both  sexes. 

Will  not  the  ladies,  whose  opinions  and  actions  form  public 
f  ntiment,  lead  off  in  a  culinary  reform,  which  will  correct  th6  er 
ws  of  the  past,  and  introduce  a  system  of  industry  and  eoouoinj 
to  meet  the  present  emergencies  1  Reverse  the  present  order  of 
things.  Make  idleness  and  indolence  disreputable,  and  labor  and 
usefulness  honorable.  Pluck  from  the  hand  of  the  destroyer  ths 
premium  awarded  to  idleness  and  give  it  to  industry.  Teach  to 
all  classes  of  our  people,  by  your  uniform  example,  that : — 

M  Labor  is  rest  from  the  sorrows  that  greet  us,  I 

Rest  from  all  petty  vexations  that  meet  us, 
Rest  from  sin's  promptings  that  ever  entreat  us, 
Rest  from  world's  syrens  that  lure  us  to  ill." 

Those  now  entering  and  soon  to  enter  upon  the  duties  of  life, 
ihould  not  do  so  with  mistaken  views  as  to  the  responsibilities 
they  will  have  to  meet,  and  the  manner  of  discharging  the  obli 
nations  of  the  domestic  sphere.  They  should  not  look  forward 
is  slaves  to  the  task,  or  as  idle  pupils  to  the  recitation.  Labor 
aromotes  hea.th,  and  health  fosters  contentment.  So,  to  be  both 
healthy  and  happy,  we  should  be  both  usefully  and  profitably 
•mployed. 

1  am  most  happy  to  be  able  to  Slate  that  the  reform  here  reeom- 
ttiended  has  already  begun,  and  is  progressing  most  encouraging 
iy.  Our  women  have  the  will  and  intelligence;  the  practical  de- 
velopment of  the  resources  at  their  command  is  all  that  is  necea 
aary  to  insure  success.  The  appearance  of  the  "Southern  Prac- 
tical Cookery  and  Receipt  Book"  at  this  crisis  augurs  a  new 
and  brighter  era  in  the  culinary  art.      It  is  a  book  admirably 


9  nmtODtTOTioir. 

adapted  to  the  timc3  and  the  people — the  production  of  a 
eminently  practical  mind,  one  whose  long  experience  and  ac- 
knowledged celebrity  among  ner  friends  as  a  cateress  entitle! 
her  opinions,  as  contained  in  the  Showing  pages,  to  be  be!  [ 
as  oracular.  The  style  of  the  boo*,  is  graceful  and  easy,  ai 
U  free  from  the  monotony  that  usually  characterizes  the  eluei 
dation  of  subjects  so  analogous  to  each  other. 

Our  authoress  has  proved  herself  to  be  mistress  in  literature,  aa 
well  as  queen  in  the  kitchen.  Her  versatility  of  talent  qualifies 
her  for  the  positioi  which  her  sense  of  duty  urged  her,  against 
her  inclination,  to  assume ;  namely,  to  assist  all  who  may  de- 
sire knowledge  and  improvement  in  the  important  art  of  cook- 
ing. 

The  instructions  here  presented  are  the  result  of  a  life  of  ex- 
perience, observation,  and  reading.  No  untried  theory  is  offered, 
nor  have  we  here  a  system  too  luxurious  for  the  poor,  or  too  ecu 
nomical  for  the  rich.  The  wants,  tastes,  and  abilities  of  all  are 
consulted,  so  that  the  poor  may  luxuriate  on  delicious  soupt 
every  day  made  from  the  savings  which  a  wasteful  housekeeper 
would  consider  utterly  worthless.  If  our  Southern  women  ar 
going  to  meet  the  present  crisis  as  they  have  all  the  trials  of  the 
past  (and  none  can  doubt  but  the)'  will),  they  will  find  this  book 
a  companion  of  invaluable  service,  and  a  constant  adviser,  whose 
opinions  may  be  trusted  as  entirely  reliable.  Adopt  the  system 
here  presented,  and  you  will  soon  find  your  husband  delighted 
with  the  improvement  in  your  style  of  living,  and  it  will  not  be 
long  before  he  will  compliment  you  on  the  economy  of  yo  ar  new 
regulations.  If,  then,  the  system  improves  the  style  of  living, 
and  at  the  same  time  curtails  the  expenses  of  the  table,  none  wil" 
doubt  the  wisdom  of  the  authoress,  the  adaptation  of  this  improve 


TNTTIODI  CrOV.  • 

mont  to  the  necessities  of  the  times,  and  its  re  a.  value  to  every 
household 

If  Byron  was  not  mistaken  in  the  subjoined  lines,  the  ladict 
will  find  that  a  feast  to  the  palate  is  the  most  successful  appeal 
hey  can  make  to  the  hearts  of  the  sterner  sex.  I  do  not  endorse 
Ois  views,  but  leave  the  reader  to  accept  or  reject,  to  prove  or 
disprove  by  experience,  as  she  may  choose ;  assuring  her  that  no 
gentleman  was  ever  offended  by  being  invited  to  a  good  dinner, 
or  thought  less  of  his  hostess  for  displaying  good  taste  in  the 
preparation  and  arrangement  of  the  viands  of  which  he  was  to 
partake. 

Of  all  appeals—  although 
I  grant  the  power  of  pathos  and  of  gold, 
Of  beauty,  flattery,  threats,  a  shilling — no 
Method's  more  sure  at  moments  to  take  hold 
Of  the  best  feelings  of  mankind,  which  grow 
More  tender  as  we  every  day  behold, 
Than  that  all-softening,  overpowering  knell, 
The  tocsin  of  the  soul — the  dinner  bell." 

But  I  must  not  close  without  a  word  to  the  sterner  sex ;  and 
fet,  why  say  a  word  to  men  in  introducing  a  cook-book?  Who 
ever  knew  one  to  take  such  a  work  in  his  hands,  much  less  to 
read  a  page  of  its  contents?  Well,  if  1  can  get  the  ear  and 
interest  of  the  women,  I  shall  not  fear  that  the  "  lords  of  crea- 
tion" will  long  remain  in  ignorance  of  the  suggestions  here 
offered.    I  therefore  feel  encouraged  to  say  a  word  for  their  benefit 

I  say  for  their  benefit;  for  so  it  will  prove  if  they  will  reduc 
nov  suggestions  to  practice.  Whei  you  come  from  your  busi 
ness,  weaiied  and  worn,  you  want  a  good,  wholesome,  healthy, 
And  palatable  meal.  This  is  a  reasonable  want;  it  may  and 
vught  to  be  gratified ;  and  it  can  and  will  be,  provided  you  wilJ 
1* 


10  INTRODUCTIOIT. 

furnish  the  apparatus  a::d  facilities,  You  would  not  require  t 
mechanic  to  Wld  you  a  house  without  the  necessary  materials, 
nor  should  you  exptc*.  the  mistress  of  your  house  to  perform  her 
duties  well  unless  you  furnish  her  with  the  requisite  ccnveni» 
,mces.  Our  enterprising  lady  friends  are  deterred  from  entering 
ipon  the  work  which  now  so  urgently  invokes  their  persona 
attention.  The  task  is  a  Herculean  one :  double  the  labor  neces- 
sary for  the  end  desired  is  to  be  accomplished,  on  account  of  the 
almost  total  absence  of  convenient  utensils  and  the  other  et  cseteras 
which  make  up  a  complete  and  cosey  establishment  Nothing  is 
inviting,  everything  is  repulsive ;  nothing  to  facilitate,  everything 
to  hinder.  Look  around  your  premises  and  see  if  a  reformation 
is  not  greatly  needed.  You  sought  insurance  from  fire  in  the 
magnificent  distance  which  exists  between  the  houses  which  make 
up  the  family  group.  Your  kitchen  is  set  quite  a  distance  in  the 
rear  of  your  dwelling ;  the  smoke-house  off  in  another  direction 
quite  as  far;  while  the  well  may  be  a  remove  so  great  that  one 
would  think  that  the  only  exercise  to  be  enjoyed  by  the  family 
was  in  going  after  water.  And  as  for  a  storehouse,  that  is  voted 
s  superfluity.  Now  the  consequence  of  this  horrid  and  unsightly 
arrangement  is,  that  the  labor  necessary  to  gather  materials  for  a 
meal  is  more  fatiguing  than  its  pieparation.  If  you  cannot  do 
otherwise,  burn  that  kitchen  and  smoke-house  where  they  stand. 
Your  dwelling  will  be  in  no  danger  from  the  conflagration 
Unite  your  kitchen  with  your  dwelling,  and  furnish  with  a  stove,  etc. 
Inclose  your  pump  under  the  same  roof;  have  your  pantry  large 
enough  tc  hold  ;  our  supply  of  provisions,  and  let  all  your  arrange 
ments  be  labcr-saving.  When  thus  arranged,  take  the  mistress 
of  your  household  into  your  kitchen,  and  let  her  examine  its  con 
tents  closely,  to  see  if  all  necessary  articles  aro  furnished ;   than, 


IifTHODTJCTICm.  1 1 

If  she  is  satisfied,  jou  Lave  done  your  du';y,  and  are  entitled  to 
the  thanks  of  a  gratified  and  happy  wife,  who  will  greet  you 
with  her  smiles  and  reward  you  with  her  economy.  Are  yoa 
alarmed  at  the  trouble  and  expense  necessary  for  the  arrange 
uient  of  all  these  conveniences  ?  You  should  not  be ;  they  will 
lontribute  largely  to  the  pleasure,  ease,  and  health  of  your  family. 
Try  it,  and  see  if  I  be  a  false  prophet. 

E.  W.  Worn 


DEDICATION. 

\ 

To  young  and  inexperienced  SDuthern  housekeepers  desire  tc 
dedicate  this  work.  In  its  preparation  I  have  been  influenced 
mainly  by  the  consideration  that  in  this  peculiar  crisis  of  our  do- 
mestic as  well  as  national  affairs,  counsel  is  needed — wise  and 
timely  counsel,  which  not  only  gives  warning  of  dangers  ahead, 
but,  in  language  clear  and  unmistakable,  teaches  how  they  may 
be  avoided.  Thousands  of  young  women  are  taking  nnnr  them- 
selves the  responsibilities  of  housekeepers,  a  position  for  which 
their  inexperience  and  ignorance  of  household  affairs  renders  them 
wholly  unfitted.  Formerly  "mother"  or  "mother's  cook,"  or 
one  whom  the  considerate  mother  had  trained  to  fill  this  impor- 
tant office  in  the  daughter's  menage,  was,  with  many,  the  only  au 
thority  considered  necessary  in  the  conduct  of  culinary  operations. 
Now,  however,  things  are  changed.  "  Mother,"  even  if  ^  ithin 
accessible  distance,  is  too  much  occupied  with  the  accumulated 
cares  of  her  own  establishment  to  be  able  to  devote  much  time 
and  attention  to  a  separate  one;  while  "mother's  cook"  and 
"  trained  servants"  are  remembered  as  among  the  good  spirits 
that  ministered  to  the  luxury  and  ease  of  by -gone  days. 

Youth  and  inexperience  are  lamentable  drawbacks  which  can 
not  be  set  aside  by  the  brave  hearts  that  would  overcome  thf  ■ 
trials  that  assail  them  in  the  outset  of  their  domestic  career;  ;ind 
they  must  content  themselves  to  " begin  at  the  beginning;"  to 
learn  the  rudiments  of  the  science  first,  and  by  the  exercise  of 
common  sense  and  a  laudable  ambition  they  may  hope  to  be- 
come (through  experience)  thorough  good  housekeepers,  it  if 
nith  the  earnest  hope  of  benefiting  this  class  that  I  have  yielded 
A)  the  importunities  of  many  friends  and  consented  to  place  in 
wir  hands  the  results  of  an  experience  of  thirty  years,  trusting 


DEDICATION.  t* 

that  it  may  prove  to  many  an  unerring  gu..1e  through  -he  laby 
rinth  of  domestic  duties. 

The  rules  that  I  give  are  collected  from  experience  and  othei 
•"reliable"  sources,  and  if  faithfully  and  attentively  practised  will 
Insure  success.  To  experienced  housekeepers,  the  directions 
may  seem  tediously  minute.  I  have  examined  a  great  many 
Cookery  books.  In  a  majority  of  thern  too  mu%h  is  taken  for 
granted,  and  much  of  the  very  information  that  a  novice  most 
need?  is  omitted,  as  facts  with  which  every  one  is  familiar.  In 
preparing  this  Receipt  Book,  a  vivid  recollection  of  my  own  ut- 
ter ignorance  of  household  affairs  at  the  time  that  I  assumed  the 
duties  of  mistress  of  a  family,  suggested  the  idea  of  taking  but 
one  thing  for  granted,  viz. :  that  the  majority  of  those  for  whom 
this  book  is  principally  intended  know  as  little  as  I  did,  and 
stand  as  greatly  in  need  of  the  aid  and  instruction  that  I  would 
gladly  have  received.  That  these  will  be  found  in  the  pages  cl 
this  book  I  sincerely  believe,  and  although  devoid  of  the  vanity 
of  supposing  that  my  contemporaries  in  age  can  profit  by  the  di- 
rections herein  contained,  I  should  confess  to  defeat  and  disap- 
pointment, should  they  fail  to  supply  that  absence  of  practical 
Knowledge  which  is  the  source  of  so  many  failures  and  disap 
pointments  to  those  who  are  just  taking  the  initiatory  step*  in 
housekeeping. 

Mrs.  A.  P.  Hdj. 


WENERAL    REMARKS 


"  Whatever  is  worth  doing  at  all  is  worth  doing  well.* 

Tlat  the  duties  of  the  cnok  may  he  properly  performed,  then 
kvwst  bo  suitable  apparatus  to  work  with.  All  other  trades  re- 
quire  nice  tools  suited  to  the  bupiness  to  be  done,  and  why  should 
not  the  claims  of  this  important  functionary  be  admitted  %  It 
n.any  kitchens — perhaps  the  majority — an  insufficient  numbei 
of  utensils  is  furnished,  and  those  without  any  regard  to  adapta 
tion,  with  the  unreasonable  expectation  that,  whatever  the  variety 
to  be  served  up,  all  shall  be  performed  in  a  skillful  manner.  A 
liberal  supply  of  cooking  utensils  is  good  economy ;  it  saves  both 
time  and  labor.  It  is  wise  management  to  curtail  expenses  in  fit 
ting  up  the  parlor,  in  order  to  spend  in  fitting  up  the  kitchen 
An  old  English  writer  upon  the  subject  has  humanely  observed . 
11 There  is  real  enjoyment  in  a  well-cooked  meal;  and  as  thr 
practice  of  cooking  is  attended  with  so  many  discouraging  uiffi 
culties,  so  many  dugudting  and  disagreeable  circumstances,  w 
ought  to  have  some  regard  for  those  who  encounter  them  to  pro 
cure  us  pleasure,  aud  10  regard  their  sen  ices  by  rendering  their 
situation  in  every  way  as  comfortable  and  agreeable  as  possible.* 


GENERAL   CONTENT* 


1-ftoups Pfeff*  It 

l-Fish 31 

S- Meats . . Tit 

4 — Sauces,  Gravies,  &o ....  165 

6— Vegetables i78 

6— Store  Sauces 202 

7— Yeast  and  Bread 212 

8— Pastry 247 

9— Pies,  &c 251 

10— Puddings,  &c 257 

12— Dumplings,  &c 200 

13— Custards. 273 

14— Sauces 279 

15— Cakes,  &c 285 

16— Icings 290 

17— Fancy  Desserts 301 

18-Fruits,  &c 311 

19-Preserves 319 

20  —Marmalades,  Jams,  &c 825 

21— Candies 330 

22— Canning  Fruits  and  Vegetables 333 

23— Wines,  Cordials,  &c. 335 

24— Pickles 344 

25— Coffee,  Tea,  &o 350 

20-TheDairy 353 

2?  -Cooking  for  Invalids 300 

28  -  Medical  Receipts ,.    368 

19 -Miscellaneous  Receipts »•••••• Mft 


MRS.    HILL'S  \  •. 

NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

sours. 

•  7%*    Cardinal   Virtues  of  Cookery — Cleanliness — Frugality— 
Nourishment  and  Palatableness." 


To  make  the  best  soups,  use  lean,  juicy,  fresh-killed  meat ; 
beef,  veal,  mutton,  kid,  lamb,  or  venison.  Proportion  the  water 
to  the  meat  in  preparing  the  broth.  To  one  pound  of  meat,  add 
three  pints  of  water,  and  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  one  quart. 
Place  the  soup-pot  over  a  slow  lire,  which  will  make  the  watej 
hot  without  causing  it  to  boil,  for  at  least  naif  an  hour.  Gen 
tie  stewing  is  best.  If  the  meat  used  is  a  leg  or  shin  of  beef, 
crack  the  bone  in  several  places.  To  this,  any  trimmings  ot 
poultry  may  be  added ;  a  few  slices  of  lean  ham,  if  a  large 
quantity  of  soup  is  to  be  made.  The  vessel  in  which  soup  is 
made,  should  have  a  close,  well-fitting  cover,  which  should  be 
carefully  kept  in  its  place  during  the  whole  process.  Tikis 
will  not  only  preserve  much  of  the  nutritive  part  of  th«  tuices 
of  the  meat,  by  preventing  evaporation,  but  prevent  smoke 
getting  in,  which  would  spoil  the  flavor  of  the  broth.  As  the 
water  begins  to  boil,  a  quantity  of  scum  will  rise  to  the  top 
which  must  be  frequently  and  carefully  removed.  When  th 
water  looks  clear,  the  vegetables  and  sal*  may  be  put  in.  Thia 
will  cause  more  scum  to  rise,  which  must  also  be  removed.  After 
this  is  done,  place  the  pot,  carefully  covered,  where  it  will  boil 
gentiy .  It  will  require  from  three  to  four  hours  to  prepare  soup 
properly,  unless'  the  broth  has  been  made  the  previous  day. 
When  convenient,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  boil  the  broth  the  day 


MRS.    HILLVS    NEW    COOK    BOOR. 

it  is  to  be  used ;  when  it  cools,  the  fat  can  be  more  easily 
moved,  and  if  a  variety  of  dishes  is  to  be  prepared,  this  ar- 
rangement will  lessen  the  labor  of  the  cook.  The  broth  w  Jl  keep 
{•erfectly  well,  but  must  not  stand  in  a  metallic  vessel.  Keep 
tome  spare  broth  in  case  your  soup  boils  too  thick.  If  this  ii 
fcot  done,  and  more  fluid  is  required,  use  boiling  water.  Cold 
water  will  injure  the  quality  of  the  soup.  When  wii  d  is  used, 
it  should  never  be  put  in  more  than  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  beft  re 
sending  to  the  table.  Spices  and  pepper  should  be  tied  in  a  thiu 
muslin  cloth,  so  as  to  be  easily  taken  out.  All  bones,  gristle,  and 
pieces  of  fat  should  be  carefully  removed  before  serving.  As 
much  of  the  meat  as  is  needed,  should  be  cut  in  small  pieces  and 
put  in  the  tureen  before  the  soup  is  taken  up.  The  broth  being 
well  prepared,  the  difference  in  soups  depends  mainly  upon  the 
seasoning.  Says  this  old  English  writer,  from  whom  I  have  al- 
ready quoted:  "The  art  of  composing  a  rich  soup  is,  so  to  pro- 
portion the  several  ingredients  one  to  another,  that  no  particu- 
lar taste  be  stronger  than  the  rest ;  but  to  produce  such  a  fine, 
harmonious  relish,  that  the  whole  is  delightful." 

The  vegetables  mostly  used  in  soups  are  tomatoes,  turnips, 
onions,  carrots,  celery,  asparagus,  peas,  ochra,  corn,  butter-beans, 
cabbage  and  Irish  potatoes.  The  two  latter  should  always  be 
parboiled  before  adding  to  the  soup.  The  flavor  of  the  former 
is  too  strong  when  put  in  raw,  and  the  water  in  which  the  latter 
is  boiled  is  thought  injurious.  The  herbs  used  in  soups  for  flavor 
ing,  are  principally  thyme,  parsley,  summer  and  winter  savory, 
sage  and  sweet  basil.  The  spices  are  cloves,  mace  and  allspice  , 
black  and  cayenne  pepper  are  also  used.  The  articles  used  foi 
thickening  are,  flour,  rice,  arrow-root,  bread  crumbs,  maccaroni, 
vermicelli  and  pearl  barley.  The  water  in  which  any  kind  of 
fresh  meat  or  poultry  is  boiled,  may  be  converted  into  soma 
kind  of  soup. 

The  predominant  meat  or  vegetable  gives  name  to  the  soup 
and  any  attentive  housekeeper  can  soon  learn  to  make  a  j udicioui 
oombiuation  of  materials. 


SOUPS.  19 

Men's  for  soup  should  always  be  put  in  cold  water  U  boil. 

"To  understand  the  economy  of  household  affairs  is  not  only 
essential  to  a  woman's  proper  and  pleasant  performance  of  the 
duties  of  a  wife  and  mother,  but  is  indispensable  to  the  comfort, 
res  portability,  and  general  welfare  of  all  families,  whatever  b« 
heir  circumstance**." 


1  Brown  Soup. — A  leg  or  shank  >f  beef  is  best  for  this ; 
othe..  meats  may  be  used,  however,  if  more  convenient.  Break 
the  bone  in  several  places;  wash  it  carefully,  put  it  in  the  soup- 
pot,  and  cover  well  with  cold  water.  Set  the  vessel  where  ths 
water  will  heat,  but  not  boil,  for  half  an  hour.  As  the  scum 
rises  to  the  top,  it  should  be  skimmed  off  carefully,  until  all  of 
it  is  removed.  Add  to  a  gallon  of  broth,  half  a  pint  of  turnips, 
peeled  and  sliced;  the  same  of  carrots  and  tomatoes.  Before  put- 
ting in  the  tomatoes,  skin  and  cut  them  in  slices,  and  stir  to  them 
an  even  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar;  add  a  teacup  of  onions,  the 
same  of  cabbage,  shred  fine  and  parboiled  •  Jso  of  Irish  potatoes. 
Brown  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  skillet,  taking  care  to 
stir  it  well  that  it  may  not  burn,  as  the  least  particle  of  scorched 
flour  will  injure  the  taste  of  the  soup  ;  make  a  thin  paste  of  this 
with  water ;  stir  this  paste  into  the  soup  half  an  hour  before 
^ending  it  to  the  table.  This  thickening  should  be  thoroughly  in 
corporated  with  the  soup  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  cut  a  portioi 
wf  the  meat  from  the  bone  in  very  small  pieces,  and  add  to  the 
soup.  Put  the  carrots  to  boil  first,  as  they  require  longer  time  to 
30  jk  than  the  ether  vegetables,  or  else  grate  them.  The  latter  is 
the  best  wray  of  using  them. 

2.  Mock  Turtle  Soup. — Take  the  head  of  a  calf  or  kid,  and  Vwo 
feet  of  the  calf  that  have  been  carefully  cleaned.  It  is  best  to 
boil  these  the  day  before  they  are  to  be  used.  If  this  has  not 
bfeu  done,  very  early  in  the  morning  put  them  in  the  soup-po 
ind  cover  with  cold  water.  (Before  this  is  done,  however,  ths 
upper  and  lower  jaws  should  be  separated,  and  the  brains  re. 


20  MRS.   hill's   new  cook   book. 

moved.)  Let  the  water  heat  slowly,  and  skim  carefully  at 
directed  ab«r\e.  Should  the  water  become  too  much  reduced, 
add  boiling  water  as  may  be  needed.  When  the  meat  is  done 
and  no  more,  take  it  up,  pick  it  from  the  bones,  and  chop  iiiif 
Strain  the  liquet  through  a  nne  colander ;  return  the  liquor  ant 
i*itt  of  the  meat  to  the  pot.  Tie  in  a  thin  muslin  cloth  a  ft* 
grams  of  allspice,  bruised  slightly,  and  a  dozen  cloves ;  drop  this  i; 
the  soup-kettle,  and  add  one  nutmeg  grated ;  this  is  spice  enougl 
foi  half  a  gallon  of  soup ;  then  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stij 
frequently,  to  prevent  the  meat  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot  froir 
burning.  Fifteen  minutes  before  sending  it  to  the  table,  add  a 
large  wine-glass  of  Madeira  wine  to  each  quart  of  soup,  and  half  ; 
gill  of  good  catsup.  To  each  gallon  add  two  tablespoon  mis  of 
lemon  juice,  the  peel  of  one  pared  thin  and  cut  in  small  pif*»3s 
After  simmering  ten  minutes  in  the  soup,  remove  the  lemon  pt  el 
This  soup  should  be  thickened  with  flour ;  one  tablespoon! ul  of 
batter,  made  with  water  and  browned  flour,  to  each  gallon  of 
soup,  added  half  an  hour  before  the  soup  is  done.  A  few  sp  iga 
of  sweet  basil  is  an  improvement.  The  yolks  of  eight  hard-bo*  led 
eggs,  sliced,  should  be  put  into  the  soup  after  it  is  poured  into 
the  tureen.  Forced-meat  balls  may  also  be  added.  This  soup 
is  equally  good,  and  with  less  trouble,  made  of  a  shank  of  vea1  or 
oeef.  Pig's  head  may  also  be  used.  A  little  butter,  and  cooked 
Irish  potatoes  added  to  the  remaining  meat,  laid  in  good  puv 
crust,  makes  good  mock-turtle  pie. 


3.  Oyster  Soup. — One  quart  of  sweet  milk;  one  quart  ol 
oysters.  Boil  the  juice  of  the  oysters  and  the  milk  together 
This  must  only  boil  up  twice ;  very  little  cooking  is  necessary 
To  this  quantity  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  or  less,  if  pre 
"erred,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  About  ten  minutes  before 
taking  the  soup  up,  stir  ii.  a  half  pint  of  crackers,  or  light  bread, 
rolled  fine ;  then  add  the  oysters.  Much  boiling  hardens  the 
oyeteis.  Nothing  improves  the  soup  so  much  as  celery  a  few 
heads  cut  up  and  boiled  with  the  milk;    or  flavor  with  a  few 


BOUP8.  ,  21 

bruised  seed  tied  up  in  a  muslin  cloth,  and  beih  i  until  the  Ravoi 
is  imparted,  and  then  removed.  When  it  is  not  convenient  to 
use  crackers  or  bread  crumbs,  stir  two  teaspoonfils  of  flour  into 
the  1  utter  before  adding  it;  or  use  arrow-root  instead  of  wheal 
lour.  Add  yolks  of  egg  to  oyster  soup,  four  to  a  can  of  oyster^ 
t  Mien i,  pour  on  them  one  pint  of  milk. 

4.  Gumbo. — Fry  a  young  chicken ;  after  it  gets  old,  take  out 
the  bones.  In  another  vessel  fry  one  pint  of  young,  tender,  <  u 
up  ochra  and  two  onions.  Puf  all  in  a  well-cleaned  soup-kettle ; 
an  iron  stew-pan  lined  with  tin  or  porcelain  is  best.  Add  on© 
quart  cc water;  stew  gently  until  done;  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt-.  Another  way  of  preparing  Gumbo,  is :  Cut  up  a  fowl 
as  if  to  fry ;  break  the  bones ;  lay  it  in  a  pot  with  a  little  lard  or 
fresh  butter.  Brown  it  a  little.  When  browned,  pour  a  gallon  of 
water  on  it;  add  a  slice  of  lean  bacon,  one  onion  cut  in  slices  a 
pint  of  tomatoes  skinned,  two  pints  of  young  pods  of  ochra  cut 
ti]),  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Cover  closely,  removing  the 
cover  to  pkim  off  all  impurities  that  may  rise  to  the  top.  Set 
the  sou  i-kettle  where  the  water  will  simmer  gently  at  least  four 
hours.  Half  an  hour  before  the  soup  is  put  in  the  tureen,  add  a 
thickening,  by  mixing  a  heaping  tablespo.mful  of  sassafras  leaves, 
dried  and  pounded  fine,  with  a  little  soup.  Stir  this  well  into 
the  soup.     Serve  with  a  separate  dish  of  rice. 

Gather  the  leaf-buds  of  the  sassafras  early  in  the  spring;  dry, 
pound,  sift,  and  bottle  them.  Miss  Leslie  recommends  stirring 
with  a  sassafras  stick,  when  the  powdered  leaves  "feela"  cannot 
b-j  pjocurcd.  The  sassafras  taste  is  very  disagreeable  to  some 
persons,  therefore  should  be  omitted  when  this  is  the  case. 


5.  Vegetable  Soup — Maigre. — To  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresa 
butter,  boiling  hot,  add  two  onions  chopped  fine;  let  them 
•tew.  When  they  are  soft,  add  two  heads  of  celery,  teacup 
each  of  corn,  butter,  beans,  cabbage,  tomatoes,  and  peas.  Stii 
them  well  with  the  butter  and  onions.  Have  ready  a  kettle  o^ 
boiling  water;  pour  over  the  vegetables  a   pint  at  a  time   tu.ti 


2?  mus.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

as  mtiu  as  is  needed  is  added.  15<>il  until  the  vegetables  art 
done.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Lay  sliees  of  toast  at  the 
bottom  of  the.  tureen,  and  pour  on  the  soup. 


C.  Asparagus  Soup. — Boil  the  asparagus  with  any  kind  of 
htsh  meat  or  fowl,  or  the  broth  in  which  they  have  been  boik«4 
To  a  quart  of  this  liquor  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flu* 
•tirred  into  a  teacup  of  cream,  added  just  before  sei  ving.  A 
hundred  points  of  asparagus  will  answer  for  three  pints  of  brot  h  j 
cut  them  into  pieces  two  inches  long ;  boil  half  an  hour ;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 


7.  CV»  Soup. — To  a  small  hock  bone  of  ham,  or  slice  of  good 
bam,  add  <^ne  quart  of  water.  As  soon  as  it  boils,  skim  it  weH 
until  the  liquor  is  clear;  add  one  large  teacup  and  a  half  of 
grated  corn,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  and  a  tablespoonful  oi 
butter,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
flour ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


8.  Green  Pea  Soup. — The  pods  of  peas  make  an  excellent 
soup  after  the  peas  are  shelled  out.  Boil  the  hulls  and  peas  in 
separate  vessels.  Strain  the  water  in  which  the  hulls  were 
boiled  through  a  colander.  Return  the  liquor  to  the  pot  and 
make  the  soup  by  any  of  the  foregoing  receipts,  and  add  the  pe«s 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  serving ;  add  crackers  in  the  bottom 
of  the  tureen.  Instead  of  boiling  the  pea-hulls  in  water  alone, 
add  a  little  fresh  meat  or  a  slice  of  ham ;  butter  may  be  added 
with  a  small  quantity  of  flour  rubbed  into  it  if  liked. 


9.  Potato  Soup. — Take  eight  large,  or  a  dozen  small,  mealr 
rish  potatoes ;  peel  and  cut  them  in  slices,  and  boil  in  three 
pints  of  water  until  they  can  be  mashed.  Take  them  up;  rub 
through  a  colander.  Into  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  riT 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  add  to  the  soup;  let  this  boil  half 
an  hour.     More  water  may  be  added,  if  necessary.     Just  before 


SOUPS. 


29 


#erv4n£,  add  a  tumbler  of  hot  rich  cream.  The  soup  must  no! 
boil  after  the  cream  is  added.  This  may  be  made  richer  by 
adding  any  kind  of  fresn  meat  to  the  water;  then,  after  boilmg 
itrain  the  broth  from  the  meat. 


10.  Ochra  Soup. — Make  a  broth  of  fowls  or  fresh  meat;  Yea 
I  best.  To  a  gallon  of  this  add  three  dozen  young,  tender  pod* 
of  ochra  ;  cut  up  thin ;  boil  gently  and  slowly  three  hours,  stirring 
occasionally.  Remove  the  meat,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Rice  and  tomatoes  may,  if  liked,  be  added  in  small 
quantities.     This  should  make  three  quarts  of  soup. 


11.  Tomato  Soup. — To  a  gallon  of  broth  made  of  any  kind  of 
fresh  meat  liked  (veal  is  best)  or  poultry,  add  six  dozen  medium 
sized  tomatoes,  which  have  been  cut  up,  but  not  skinned ;  stir  to 
he  tomatoes  a  tablespoonful  of  good  brown  sugar,  to  soften  their 
extreme  acid  taste.  Put  them  to  stew  gently  and  steadily  in  a 
well-covered  soup-kettle.  Salt  to  taste.  Boil  two  hours;  ther> 
strain  the  soup  through  a  colander;  return  it  to  the  kettle.  T« 
a  large  tablespoonful  of  nice,  sweet  butter,  rub  in  a  tablespoonfu 
of  flour.  Put  this  to  the  soup ;  let  it  simmer  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
When  the  flavor  of  onions  is  not  disliked,  one  or  two  may  b- 
used,  shred  fine,  or  a  few  heads  of  eschalots,  and  put  to  boil  a 
the  same  time  the  tomatoes  are.  The  flavor  of  the  onions  must 
be  so  delicate  as  to  be  scarcely  recognized.  Persons  differ  a> 
regards  thickening.  The  cook  must  ascertain  the  taste  of  those 
to  be  served,  and  add  or  diminish  as  may  be  proper. 


12.  Soup  a  la  Julienne. — Cut  up  three  carrots,  two  turnips,  a 
^nartei  of  a  head  of  cabbage  or  lettuce,  one  white  onion,  two 
Irish  potatoes,  six  heads  of  celery  ;  boil  a  good  shank  bone  of 
beef  or  veal ;  to  a  half-gallon  of  this  broth  add  the  vegetal  lea, 
and  boil  until  they  are  done.  Skim  the  soup  well ;  add  salt.  \\x\ 
not  pepper ;  this  can  be  added  extcnipore,  and  as  suits  indi 
viJual  taste. 


*U  MBS.    HILL'S  NEW  COOK.  IJOO*. 

12|.  Soup  a  la  Jfisque. — One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  rice,  and 
twelve  crabs  (soft  shell) ;  boil  in  good  broth,  and  when  dont 
pound  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Fill  the  heads  of  the  crabs  with 
fifth  stuffing,  and  add  a  little  butter. 


13.  Curry  Soup. — Cover  four  pounds  of  beef,  veal,  or  mutton, 
frith  one  gallon  of  water.  Boil  gently  until  reduced  to  thre« 
tjuarts;  skim  carefully;  add  twelve  corns  of  black  pepper, 
one  nutmeg,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  After  boil- 
ing one  hour  and  a  half,  strain  it.  While  it  is  boiling,  fry 
of  a  nice  brown,  in  butter  and  lard  mixed,  or  in  good  sweet  lard 
alone,  four  thin  slices  of  beef,  veal,  or  mutton,  and  four  onions. 
When  they  are  done,  pour  the  broth  on  them ;  put  it  on  the  fire ; 
remove  any  scum  that  rises,  and  let  it  simmer  half  an  hour. 
Mix  two  teaspoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  the  same  of  flour,  with  a 
little  cold  water,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  this  to  the  soup, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently.  Add  boiling  water  if  there  is  less  than 
three  quarts  of  soup  when  done.  Serve  the  meat  in  a  separate 
dish,  with  a  rich  tomato  sauce.  This  soup  may  be  made  without 
the  curry  powder,  seasoning  high  with  pepper. 


14.  Pigeon  Soup. — Take  six  pigeons,  partridges,  or  other 
birds ;  clean  nicely  and  cut  up.  Put  the  gizzards,  necks,  and 
livers,  with  the  other  parts  of  the  birds,  into  half  a  gallon  of  cold 
water.  Boil  until  done.  Take  up  the  pigeons ;  pick  all  the  meat 
from  the  bones ;  strain  the  broth  through  a  sieve ;  return  it  to 
the  pot,  and  thicken  with  half  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs.  Season 
with  mace,  allspice,  and  cloves ;  put  the  last  in  whole ;  salt  and 
p<  I  per.  Add  the  meat,  which  must  be  picked  up  very  Ana 
Ailer  the  soup  is  in  the  tureen,  add  four  hard-boiled  eggs 
grated.     A  dozen  berries  of  allspice,  eight  of  cloves,  is  sufficient 


15.  Rabbit  Soup. — Cut  up  two  rabbits  as  for  frying ;  put  thii 
With  a  £uuckle   of  veal  or    beef,  or  a   slice   or  two  of  bjveon 


soups.  2C 

ifito  the  soup-kettle;  cover  with  four  quarts  of  water;  boil 
fently  until  halt'  reduced,  and  skim  carefully  until  the  broth  is 
elcar.  Fry  two  sliced  onions  a  light  brown  color ;  stir  into  the 
onion  a  tablespoon ful  of  flour  until  it  browns,  and  add  (stirring 
«n»il  Arell  incoi  r  orated)  to  the  soup  ;  season  with  a  bunch,  each,  of 
paisley,  thyme,  and  sweet  basil,  six  cloves,  one  dozen  grains  of 
whole  allspice  a  few  blades  of  mace,  pepper  and  salt ;  toast  thin 
ilwvs  of  light  bread  and  lay  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen  ;  pour 
<>n  the  soup  and  serve  hot,  after  first  removing  the  meat  from  tho 
•oup.  Squirrels  are  good  used  in  the  same  way  ;  for  the  same 
quantity  of  water  four  squirrels  will  be  necessary  if  they  are 
young. 


1<>. — Chicken  and  Oyster  Soup. — (A  superior    receipt.)     Cut 

up  a  full-grown  fowl  as  for  frying.  Clean  the  giblets  nicely,  and 
put  all  in  the  soup- kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  ; 
Ect  it  simmer  gently;  remove  all  tne  scum.  When  the  chicken  is 
tender,  take  it  up,  strain  the  liquor  and  return  it  to  the  kettle. 
Add  a  quart  of  sweet  milk  to  a  quart  of  broth ;  if  there  should  not 
be  as  much  broth  as  is  needed,  pour  in  sufficient  boiling  water  ; 
Add  a  quart  of  oysters  with  their  juice,  and  two  or  three  blades 
of  mace.  A  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  arrow-root,  wheat 
flour  rubbed  into  the  butter,  and  one  gill  of  hot  cream  ;  stew  gent- 
fcy  five  minutes.  Cream  must  always  be  boiled  before  being  put 
into  soup  or  gravy.     Use  the  chicken  for  salad. 


17.  Rick  Chicken  Soup. — Take  four  quarts  of  water,  fo'ir 
J/Minds  of  veal  or  beef;  stew  gently,  skim  and  strain  the  broth ; 
•iler  it  has  boiled  two  hours,  cut  up  a  full-grown  young  fowl ;  put 
iito  the  broth  aitei  returning  it  to  the  soup-kettle;  season 
%ih  salt  and  parsley.  Let  it  simmer  one  hour;  take  out 
the  chicken  ;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  mix 
thorough!)  with  the  soup  just  before  serving.  Be  careful  to  stir 
one  u  ay ;  serve  the  meat  separately  as  a  stew  or  hash,  using  rich 
gravy  made  of  plait  of  the  skimmings  of  the  soup  kettle,  seasoned 
2 


$6  MRS.     HILLS    KRW    COOK     BOOK. 

to  t&3te ;  pick  the  ch.ckcn  from  the  bones,  return  it  to  the  soup 
until  hot,  pour  into  the  tureen  and  serve. 


18.  Mr*.  H. *s  Receipt  for  making  Turtle  Soup. — Cut  off  tto 
&  ad ;  hang  up  the  turtle;  let  it  bleed  freely  ;  cat  off  the  fina, 
in  id  separate  the  upper  and  lower  shells  carefully  ;  keep  th« 
knife  close  to  the  upper  shell  to  avoid  breaking  the  gall  bladder. 
Cut  up  the  turtle ;  put  shells  and  all  into  the  stew-pan  after  the 
shells  have  been  carefully  cleaned.  Let  them  boil  five  minutes, 
plunge  the  turtle  in  cold  water  and  scald  again  five  minutes ; 
again  plunge  it  in  cold  water ;  save  all  the  green  fat  from  the  in 
testines  and  other  parts ;  cut  as  much  off  the  turtle  as  is  needed 
for  soup,  using  the  fins,  entrails,  heart,  and  liver ;  put  them  to 
boil  in  a  gallon  of  water,  in  a  closely-covered  soup-kettle ;  when 
done,  take  off  the  meat  and  return  the  bones  to  the  kettle ;  simmer 
gently  ;  they  will  add  something  to  the  strength  of  the  stock.  In 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  strain  this  broth  from  the  bones,  cut  up  the 
meat  fine,  put  all  in  the  kettle,  seasoning  with  four  tablepoonfula 
of  green  eschalot,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  parsley,  thyme,  mar- 
joram and  sweet  basil,  two  lemons  cut  up,  with  the  seeds  removed, 
one  dozen  allspice,  one  dozen  cloves,  one  nutmeg  beaten  fine,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  let  this 
simmer  gently  one  hour.  Make  a  rich  brown  broth  in  another  ves- 
sel,  by  boiling  together  two  pounds  of  beef  and  one  pound  of  ham 
in  two  quarts  of  water ;  fry,  until  a  light  brown,  four  large  onions 
cut  up  in  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  add  this  (stirring  in 
lowly)  to  the  brown  broth ;  add  the  same  quantity  of  spice  used 
with  the  turtle.  Make  a  paste  of  one  large  tablespoonful  of  ftoui 
and  water  sufficient  to  form  the  paste;  add  this  quantity  as  thick- 
ening for  each  gallon  of  soup;  ooil  this  one  hour;  strain  this 
broth  on  to  the  turtle;  stir  all  well  and  boil  half  an  hour,  stirring 
frequently,  to  prevent  the  meat  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of 
the  soup-kettle;  shculd  more  seasoning  be  required,  add  it  be 
lore  boiling  the  list  half  hour.     A  quarter  of  an  huur  before  th« 


80UP8.  2ft 

•3up  is  done,  add  the  green  fat,  and  a  half  pint  of  Madeira  wint^ 
jo  three  quarts  of  soup,  added  hot. 
Prepare  the  stock  for  this  soup  the  day  before  it  is  wanted. 

19.  Another  Turtle  Soup,  less  complicated. — Boil  the  turtle 
ei y  tender,  remove  all  bones,  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  j 
eason  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  marjoram,  sweet  basil,  thyme 
and  parsley  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  one  nutmeg  beaten  fine  ; 
a  dozen  cloves;  the  same  of  allspice.  Tie  these  in  thin  muslin, 
and  remove  it  before  sending  the  soup  to  the  table  ;  stir  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  into  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter ;  add  this  to  the  soup ;  pour  over  five  quarts  of  boiling  water ; 
reduce  by  boiling  to  three  quarts ;  boil  gently.  A  quarter  of  an 
hour  before  it  is  done,  add  the  green  fat;  and  to  three  quarts  o 
soup,  half  a  pint  of  wine,  a  lemon  sliced  thin,  the  seeds  removed 
add  force-meat  balls  ;  after  simmering  five  minutes,  take  out 
the  lemon  peel.  This  is  for  a  small  turtle ;  if  not  fat,  a  slice  of 
good  ham  may  be  added,  and  removed  before  serving. 


20.  Beef  Soup. — Cover  the  bottom  of  the  soup-kettle  with  a 
pound  of  lean  ham  ;  three  pounds  of  lean  juicy  beef  sliced  and 
laid  over  the  ham;  strew  over  this,  half  a  pint  of  onions  chopped 
fine ;  cover  with  just  water  enough  to  extract  the  juices  without 
burning.  This  should  stew  very  gently  for  half  an  hour ;  add 
three  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  boil  slowly ;  remove  the  grease 
and  scum ;  when  the  broth  looks  clear,  add  any  vegetables  that 
may  be  liked.  To  each  quart,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  bread 
crumbs.  When  the  vegetables  are  done,  strain  thern  from  the 
■oup ;  return  soup  to  the  kettle,  and  add  maccaroni  ur  vermi 
celli,  two  ounces  to  each  quart ;  break  in  small  pieces  and  scald 
In  hot  water  before  putting  it  to  the  soup ;  boil  ten  minutes  ;  use 
catsup  and  avoid  over-seasoning.  In  making  brown  soups,  always 
itew  the  meat  in  very  little  water,  until  of  a  brown  coloi.  -A 
lamb,  kid,  or  pigs-head  makes  the  soup  well. 


28  MRS.    U1LLS    NfiW    COOK    BOOK. 

21.  Dried  Pea  Soup. — Remove  carefully  all  unsound  peas 
wash  and  soak  them  an  hour  or  two,  as  may  be  convenient.  Tc 
one  quart  of  dried  peas  put  four  quarts  of  water ;  a  small  piec€ 
of  lean  ham ;  cut  up  one  large  turnip,  and  one  head  of  celery  ;  add 
to  the  peas;  boil  until  the  broth  is  reduced  one  half;  mash  all 
through  a  colander;  return  the  soup  to  the  kettle;  add  anothei 
bead  of  celery  and  an  onion  chopped  fine ;  season  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt  t)  taste;  boil  half  an  hour;  toast  slices  of  light 
bread,  and  lay  in  the  botto  n  of  the  tureen ;  pour  the  soup  over 
it ;  celery,  vinegar,  or  the  extract  may  be  used  if  there  is  no 
fresh  celery  to  be  had.  Brown  peas  are  used  foi  giving  a  richer 
color* 


22.  Ox  Tail  Soup. — This  part  of  the  beef  is  generally  little 
esteemed,  but  few  things  make  better  soup,  on  account  of  the 
gelatinous  matter  contained  in  it.  Break  the  bone  in  several 
places  ;  put  it  to  boil,  with  one  or  two  of  the  feet,  well  cleaned, 
or  half  of  the  cheek ;  finish  by  the  "beef  soup"  receipt,  or  any 
of  the  foregoing  liked. 

23.  Oyster  Gumbo.  —  P«T  <*ne  large  table-spoonful  of  lard  in 
your  soup-pot ;  stir  in  it  ow  o  large  spoonfuls  of  flour  ;  stir  until 
\his  browns  ;  add  to  this  a  good  slice  of  ham  and  one  of  lean 
oeef ;  cover  with  cold  water  and  stew  ;  skim  off  all  dross  care- 
fully ;  add  an  onion  cut  up  in  small  pieces ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  When  the  meats  are  of  a  rich  brown  ct^or,  not  dark, 
add  thre*  quarts  of  boiling  water  ;  let  this  boil  rapidly  an  hour  ; 
ten  minutes  before  seizing,  add  the  oysters  ;  remove  the  vessel 
from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sassafras 
leaves,  and  buds  called  "  feela."  A  dish  of  rice  should  accom- 
pany the  gumbo  ;  put  a  spoonful  into  the  soup-plate;  then  pout 
over  the  soup  or  gumbo. 

(J  rated  carrots  will  give  a  fine  yellcw  color;  bruised  spinach 
will  make  it  green.  This  is  sometimes  used  to  deepen  the  color 
of  pea  soup.     Tomatoes,  burnt  sugar,  onions  browned  by  fry  vug, 


BOUPfc  4fW 

a  slice  or  two  of  loaf  broad,  toasted  very  ^rown ;  eithei  of  these 
will  arswer  to  give  a  brown  color,  stewed  with  the  soup.  White 
stock  is  made  by  the  same  rule,  only  the  meat  must  not  be 
browned.  Vegetables  should  not  be  used  which  will  affect  the 
tolar  of  the  stock.  Veal  and  poultry  are  the  best  meats  fcr  Uiu 
Celery,  turnips,  corn,  and  white  onions  are  the  most  suitablt 
vegetables,  and  mace  the  only  spice ;  black  pepper  should  nol 
be  used,  the  white  or  Jamaica  is  best;  and  the  thickening  for 
the  soup  should  be  wet  up  with  milk. 


24.  Fish  Soup. — This  soup  can  be  made  out  of  any  kind  of 
fresh  tisli.  Put  the  fish  on  to  stew,  and  cover  it  with  water  ;  a 
small  piece  of  lean  bacon  may  be  added ;  add  an  onion,  celery, 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  When  this  is  stewed  until  the  meat 
will  drop  from  the  bones,  strain  the  fish  from  the  soup,  and  re- 
turn the  soup  to  the  kettle.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  or  four 
eggs  (depending  upon  the  quantity  of  soup),  stir  to  the  soup ; 
add  any  kind  of  spices  liked,  and  butter  to  make  it  rich  enough. 
Just  before  serving  add  wine  or  catsup  to  taste.  I  prefer  catsup. 
Clams  can  be  made  in  the  same  way ;  very  good.  This  soup  niaj 
be  made  of  the  heads  of  fish  only. 


25.  Calf's  Head  Soup. — Cover  the  head,  after  it  is  well 
cleaned  and  cut  up,  with  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  water.  Let  it 
boil  until  the  meat  drops  off ;  chop  this  fine ;  cut  up  and  put  in 
the  soup-pot  the  brains ;  an  onion,  parsley ;  clove  and  Ulspice  to 
taste,  salt,  pepper,  sage,  and  thyme ;  work  in  a  piece  of  butter 
th  3  size  of  an  egg  an  even  table-spoonful  of  flour.  Drop  thif 
In  the  roup      J  ist  before  serving  season  with  wine,  if  liked. 


26.  To  Clarify  Soup.— Add  to  the  broth,  while  cold,  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  (for  half  a  gallon)  whipped  to  a  froth.  Stir 
h  into  the  broth  well;  simmer  gently,  without  stirring,  until  the 


30  lias,  full's  new  cook  book. 

liquid  looks  clear;  then  begin  to  skim  until  the  impurities  art 
removed.  Soups  are  seldom  clarified,  except  foi  white  soups. 
(Arrow-root  is  a  nice,  crticle  for  thickening  white  soups.)  Alwayi 
wet  the  cloth  through  which  the  soup  is  to  be  straine-*"  in  cold 
water;  this  hardens  the  fat,  and  more  entirely  separates  it  from 
the  liquor  when  it  is  desirable  to  remove  the  fat. 

In  making  brown  soups,  broil  or  fry  the  meat  first  in  the  bol 
torn  of  the  soup-kettle ;  then  pour  over  it  cold  water.  Made  in 
this  vay,  the  soup  is  richer  and  of  a  better  color ;  or  stew  it  in 
very  little  water  until  brown ;  then  pour  over  it  the  water  neces- 
sary to  make  the  soup.  A  good  proportion  of  wine  is  a  tumblerful 
(or  half  a  pint)  to  three  quarts  of  soup ;  use  pood  Madeira.  Wine 
and  catsup  should  no-i  be  added  until  a  few  minutes  befora 
serving  the  soup. 


FISH 

15.  To  fry  Fi»\. — Use  for  this  purpose  a  frying-pan,  spidei 
or  iron  ove:  If  the  frying-pan  is  preferred,  half  fill  tbi 
ressel  with  lard ;  but  if  a  larger  and  deeper  vessel  is  used, 
have  iard  enough  to  cover  the  fish.  The  lard  should  be  sweet 
■nd  clean,  and  free  from  salt,  as  rancid  lard  imparts  a  disagree- 
able taste,  and  salt  will  prevent  the  article  from  browning.  It  is 
important  to  know  when  the  lard  is  hot  enough.  If  not  hot 
enough,  the  fish  will  be  pale  and  sodden.  A  good  and  easy  way 
to  ascertain  this  is  to  throw  a  small  piece  of  bread  into  the 
vessel.  If  it  fries  crisp,  the  lard  is  ready ;  if  the  bread  burns,  it 
is  too  hot.  As  soon  as  the  fish  is  done,  remove  it  to  a  soft  cloth 
before  the  fire;  turn  once.  This  will  absorb  the  grease;  the 
grease  otherwise  would  settle  upon  the  lower  pieces.  Fish,  to  be 
in  perfection,  must  be  fresh.  To  ascertain  this,  examine  the  gills 
and  eyes ;  the  former  should  be  of  a  bright  red,  the  latter  bright 
and  lively,  and  the  flesh  firm.  The  least  taint  about  fish  renders 
them  worthless.  Pond  fish  have  an  earthy,  muddy  taste.  To 
extract  this,  soak  them  in  salt  and  water. 

"Any  person  who  has  seen  the  process  of  evaporation  going  o* 
at  the  Salt  Works,  knows  that  the  salt  falls  to  the  bottom.  Just 
so  it  is  in  the  pan  where  your  mackerel  lies  soaking ;  and  as  it 
lies  with  the  skin  side  down,  the  salt  will  fall  to  the  skin,  au>> 
there  remain ;  when,  if  the  flesh  side  were  down,  the  salt  falls  tf 
the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  the  fish  comes  out  fresh." — Southtrt 
Cultivator. 


26.  To  fry  Shad. — Clean  them  thoroughly ;  cut  in  slices  of 
proper  size  to  help  at  the  table.  Wipe  each  piece  dry.  Best 
oue  or  two  eggs  well  t^igethjr,  and  with  an  egg-brush  put  the  egg 


32  MRS.    HILL  P    MEW    COOK    BOOK. 

evenly  over  the  fish ;  or  the  pieces  may  be  dipped  in  the  ejrg  R« 
bui e  that  every  part  is  covered  by  the  beater  egg.  Roll  thtin 
in  bread  crumbs.  Shake  off  the  loose  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard.  Fry  the  thick  parts  a  few  minutes  before  putting  ?.n  the 
thin.  Nave  plenty  of  lard  to  cover  the  fish.  Do  rot  out  it  ii 
mill  the  lard  boils,  or  it  will  not  be  firm  and  crisp.  II  ihere  an 
eggs  or  roe,  fry  them.  Shad  and  other  fish  may  be  rolled  ir 
corn  meal,  sifted  fine,  or  in  flour,  before  being  fried.  Either  uaj 
is  good.  This  receipt  will  answer  for  frying  any  kind  of  fish 
Very  small  fresh  water  fish  may  be  cooked  whole,  and  simply 
rolled  in  Indian  meal,  or  fried  plain. 

Trout  black-fish,  mullet,  whiting,  perch,  sturgeon,  and  drum 
are  all  excellent  cooked  by  either  of  the  above  receipts.  Larg* 
fish  should  be  cut  into  steaks  or  fillets. 


27.  To  fry  Fillets  of  Fish. — Cut  them  in  slices  half  an  inch 
thick ;  fry  them  plain,  or  in  thin  batter,  or  roll  in  Indian  meal. 
Whole  fish  may  be  fried  or  boiled  in  plenty  of  boiling  lard;  when 
done,  skin  them,  and  serve  immediately  in  a  hot  dish ;  use  piqu- 
ant sauce. 

28.  To  broil  Fish. — If  salt,  take  it  from  the  brine ;  wash  it  in 
two  waters ;  lay  it  in  plenty  of  water  (the  inside  down)  to  covet 
it  well,  to  which  add  half  a  teacup  of  vinegar.  If  the  fish  is  hard 
and  dry,  instead  of  the  vinegar  add  a  tablespoonful  of  soda ; 
change  the  water,  if  very  salt.  When  sufficiently  fresh  to  cook, 
remove  it  from  the  water.  Wipe  all  fish,  whether  salt  or  fresh, 
rery  dry  before  broiling.  Have  the  gridiron  prepared,  by  rubbing 
the  bars  bright;  grease  them  with  suet  or  lard,  without  the  least 
smoke  or  blaze  about  it.  When  the  gridiron  is  hot,  place  (he 
fish,  skin  side  down,  upon  it,  and  turn  it  once.  The  dish  'o 
which  the  fish  is  to  be  served  should  be  hot,  and  the  moment  tt 
is  done  send,  without  delay,  to  the  table.  A  cold  fish,  served 
upon  a  cold  dish,  upon  a  cold  day,  is  an  unattractive  dish,  whrit 
with  the  proper  attention  a*id  suitable  accompaniments,  it  night 


FISH.  39 

br  made  the  reverse.  Drawn  butter,  with  lemon  juice,  or  any 
of  the  flavored  vinogjrs  preferred,  should  constitute  the  sauce. 
Caviare,  Worcester  sauce,  any  of  the  catsups  liked,  should  be  at 


A  Fieh  Knife  and  Fork. 


hand,  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  prefer  extempore  seasoning  (A 
that  kind  to  the  drawn  butter. 


21).  To  Broil  Salt  Mackerel. — When  it  has  soaked  sufficiently, 
remove  it  from  the  water;  always  taste  one  of  the  tins  to  ascer- 
tain it  fresh  enough.  Hang  it  to  drain  a  short  time;  wipe  the 
inside  dry  ;  rub  between  the  burs  of  the  gridiron  with  beef  suet, 
or  a  little  nice  lard.  Be  (wreful  not  to  use  much  grease,  or  il 
will  drip  upon  the  coals  and  give  a  disagreeable  taste  to  the  fish 
Let  the  gridiron  be  hot,  but  not  enough  so  to  scorch.  Lay  the 
fish  open,  skin  side  down  ;  turn  it  once.  When  done,  place  ovei 
it  a  hot  dish  ;  invert  the  gridiron;  pour  a  small  wineglass  of 
boiling  water  over  the  fish.  Let  this  remain  fwe  minutes;  po\ii 
otT  the  water;  butter  it  well;  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs, 
sliced,  or  use  egg  sauce,  or  season  extempore  with  caviare,  lem 
on  juice,  or  any  of  the  flavored  vinegars  preferred.  Broil  other 
salt  fish  in  the  same  way. 

30.  To  Broil  Fresh  Fish. — Clean  them  well ;  if  large,  cut  a 
It  ng  slit  down  the  back  bone  on  the  inside,  so  that  the  fish  vfill 
lie  open  without  being  split  in  two;  dry  it  with  a  cloth;  ?piin 
kle  some  salt  over  the  fish,  and  let  it  lie  until  there  is  just  t>im$ 
to  cook  it;  for,  to  be  eaten  in  perfection,  it  should  go  from  the 
gridiron  to  the  mouth.  Have  a  clear  brisk  fire,  without  the 
least  smoke.  The  gridiron  being  prepared  as  for  the  mack*  rel, 
place  the  skin  side  4ovrr ;    uhen   brown,  turn   it  carefully,  sj  Sw 


34  MRS.     Hill.  S    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

kling  a  little  flour  on  the  inside,  to  prevent  its  sticking.  "Whei 
done,  place  a  hot  dish  over  the  fish,  and  invert  the  gridiron  ;  pour 
•vvei  melted  butter;  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon;  scraped 
Horseradish  is  a  good  accompaniment.  This  receipt  will  an 
iwer  for  broiling  any  fresh  fish.  An  excellent  way  for  cooking 
fres'"  fish,  is  b)  semi-broiling.  Place  three  or  four  muflin 
rings  or  a  small  trivet,  in  the  bottom  of  a  stove  baking-pan  ; 
pour  iL  a  wineglass  of  water;  butter  the  fish  well;  season  with 
pepper  aud  salt ;  place  the  pan  in  the  oven  of  the  stove ;  baste 
the  fish  frequently,  and  turn  once.  The  fish  should  be  split  open 
as  in  former  receipts.  If  the  fish  is  large,  ci.t  it  in  pieces;  roll 
in  meal  or  flour,  and  lay  the  slices  in  the  pan  with  a  little  water; 
turn  frequently,  and  baste  often.  The  rings  or  skewers  will  not 
be  needed  when  the  fish  is  sliced. 


31.  Another  method  of  Broiling  fresh  Fish. — Take  a  fresh 
fish ;  cut  out  the  entrails,  and  without  removing  the  scales,  wash 
it  clean ;  dry  it  with  a  cloth ;  put  inside  a  seasoning  of  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt;  wrap  it  in  a  wet  sheet  of  foolscap  paper,  oT 
several  if  necessary  ;  cover  it  up  in  hot  ashes.  When  the  fish  i 
done — strip  the  skin  off  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  Sent, 
drawn  butter  to  the  table  in  a  boat,  to  which  add  caviare,  or  any 
Rind  of  catsup  preferred,  or  serve  with  lemon  juice  stirred  into 
drawn  butter.  The  dish  upon  which  the  fish  is  placed  should  be 
hot. 

Says  Izak  Walton:  "Lyirg  in  water  long,  and  washing  the 
Mood  out  of  the  fish  after  the  intestines  are  removed,  abate* 
.nuch  of  their  sweetness." 


92.  Mrs.  Hale's  Receipt  for  Broiling  Shad. — Empty  and  *ask 
the  fish  with  care.  Do  not  open  it  more  than  necessary  to  do 
Ihis  ;  fill  it  with  f,rce-ment  and  its  own  roe.  Oysters  are  good 
whor  in  season ;  sew  it  up ;  fasten  with  fine  skewers  securely ; 
wrap  it  in  thickly  buttered  paper ;  broil  gently  over  solid  coal* 
for  one  hour  without  the  lua>*t  smoke. 


FISH.  35 

33.  Izalc  Walton1  s  Receipt  for  Broiling  Fresh  Fun.  — "  \N  hei 
you  have  scaled  him,  and  cut  off  his  tail  and  iins,  and  washed 
him  very  clean,  then  chine,  or  slit  him  thro'  the  middle  as  a  salt 
fish  is  usually  cut ;  then  give  him  three  or  four  scotches  acrosi 
the  back  with  your  knife ;  broil  him — no  smoke  must  rise  from 
the  coals,  all  the  time  he  is  broiling;  baste  him  with  good  sweet 
butter,  and  a  little  salt  in  the  butter;  add  a  little  thyme  01 
parsley  to  the  butter.  Remember  to  wash  the  fish's  throat 
clean  ;  do  not  wash  him  after  he  is  opened.  It  is  said  that  though 
some  fish  be  light  and  easy  of  digestion,  they  are  of  all  the  ani- 
mal tribes,  the  most  disposed  to  putrefaction.  Acid  sauces  and 
piokles,  by  resisting  putrefaction,  are  a  proper  addition  to  fish." 


34.  To  broil  Smoked  Fish — Wash  it  well  in  cold  water ;  wipe 
it  dry ;  broil  on  a  hot  gridiron,  turning  two  or  three  times,  when 
thoroughly  hot',  pour  on  it  melted  butter;  pepper  well ;  garnish 
with  parsley  and  lemon.  A  good  breakfast  dish.  It  is  a  good  plan 
to  let  fresh  fish  lie  several  hours  in  the  seasoning,  before  broiling  ; 
each  slice,  if  the  fish  is  large,  may  be  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper 
salt,  a  little  minced  onion,  or  eschalot;  wrap  in  buttered  paper 
separately  and  broil ;  turn  out  of  the  paper  and  serve  with  sauce. 


35.  To  Boil  Fish. — Scale  and  clean  the  fish;  cut  open  no 
more  than  is  necessary  to  clean  the  inside  well.  Remove  care 
full  y  all  the  black  blood  that  attaches  to  the  back  bone ;  lay  the 
fish,  if  fresh,  in  salt  and  water  twenty  minutes,  before  cooking. 
This  is  a  better  plan  than  to  add  salt  to  the  water  in  the  kettle.  A 
•mall  piece  of  saltpetre  (one-fourth  of  an  ource  to  a  gallon  of 
**««r)  put  into  the  fish-kettle  will  make  the  fish  firmer;  use 
irater  enough  to  cover  the  fish  and  no  more ;  cover  with  a  close. 
nlting  lia;  simmer  slowly ;  skim  as  long  as  there  is  any  diosi 
on  the  top.  This  is  important,  if  you  wish  the  fish  to  look  white. 
To  ascertain  when  the  fish  is  done,  try  if  the  thickest  part  can  be 
separated  from  the  bone;  in  doing  this  be  careful  to  disturb  (he 
fwh  as  liUlftas  possible.     When  done,  remove  from  iho  wtttei 


86 


MR8.    IHLLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 


in. mediately;  every  moment  it  remains  will  injure  its  condition. 
Should  the  fish  be  done  before  wanted,  wrap  around  it  a  napkin 
wrung  out  in  hot  water.  Suspend  the  strainer  (if  a  fish-kettle  ii 
used)  over  boiling  water,  placed  across  the  kettle;  the  watet 
Tiust  not  touch  it.  Just  before  serving,  immerse  it  for  a  moment 
r  the  boiling  water  over  which  it  was  suspended.  When  a  fish 
kettle  is  not  used,  a  piece  of  flat  perforated  tin,  having  a  smal 
handle  at  each  end,  will  answer  in  place  of  the  strainer.  Th€ 
fish  should  be  boiled  in  a  vessel  just  large  enough  to  hold  it  with- 
out cramping,  with  a  close,  well-fitting  cover.  Serve  with  melted 
butter ;  this  is  always  made  thicker  than  for  meats,  as  it  is  dilut- 
ed with  catsups  or  lemon  juice.  Whole  fish  are  put  to  boil  in 
warm  water;  fillets  in  hot  water 

3$.  A  Greek  cook  says,  "  He  cooked  a  pan  fish  so  exquisitely 
that  it  turned  him  an  admiring,  grateful  look  from  the  frying- 
pan."  This  is  the  way  he  did  it.  The  fish,  after  being  nicely 
cleaned  was  rolled  in  bread-crumbs  pounded  fine  (I  prefer  corn- 
meal.)  Plenty  of  lard  to  cover  the  fish  was  brought  to  boiling- 
point.  The  fish  was  then  plunged  in,  and  turned  frequently  and 
carefully,  watched  tenderly,  until  a  light  brown  color ;  removed 
with  a  perforated  flat  clipper,  and  served  upon  a  hot  dish,  with  a 
napkin  folded  neatly  in  the  bottom. 


37.  A  piece  of  boiled  Salmon — It  is  usual  to  cut  a  slice  each  <  i 


(at  and  lean  and  serve  to  each  person.     The  abdomen  is  the  fat 


FISH  31 

test  and  must  be  cut  from  d  to  c;  the  upper  side,  cr  back,  out 
from  a  to  b. 


38.  To  Stew  Fish. — Into  one  quart  of  hot  water  or  broth  out 
up  a  large  onion,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper  beaten  fin*. 
Boil  these  together  until  the  onion  is  done.  Lay  the  fish,  proper 
ly  cleaned  and  dusted  with  flour,  in  the  fish-kettle  or  vessel  in 
which  it  is  to  be  cooked.  Strain  this  broth  to  it ;  season  with 
salt ;  simmer  gently ;  skim  off  any  impurities  that  may  rise. 
When  the  fish  is  done  (one  of  moderate  size  will  require  twenty 
ninutes)  pour  off  the  gravy  into  a  stew-pan ;  rub  into  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flour ;  add  this  to  the 
gravy.  Let  this  stew  gently,  stirring  frequently,  only  five  min. 
utes ,  take  the  fish  up,  place  it  in  a  hot  dish  and  strain  the  gravy 
over  it.     Wine  or  catsup  may  be  added  to  the  gravy  if  liked. 


39,  To  Stew  Catfish,  Eels,  Perch,  etc. — After  cleaning  well, 
place  the  fish  in  the  kettle ;  strew  over  two  large  onions,  cut  up 
fine ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  cover  with  warm  water ;  set  the 
kettle  where  it  will  simmer  gently.  Cut  up  very  fine,  four  or  five 
large  sprigs  of  parsley  ;  add  this  to  the  fish.  Pour  into  the  stew- 
pan  one  pint  of  sweet  cream  or  rich  sweet  milk ;  add  to  this  a 
teacup  of  butter  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour ;  place  it  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  shaking  the  pan  fre 
quently.     Take  up  the  fish  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it. 


40.  Mrs.  R?s  Receipt  for  Stewing  Fish. — Scale  and  clean  the 
Gsh  well ;  wipe  dry  and  dredge  with  flour.  Fry  them  in  lard 
util  half  done  and  of  a  light  brown  color.  Put  them  in  a  stew- 
par  ;  cover  with  boiling  water.  To  half  a  pint  of  water  add  half 
*  pint  of  wine  or  catsup ;  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  pickle  cut  up 
fine,  cayenne  pepper  to  taste;  a  large  onion  cut  up,  half  a  dozen 
cloves,  a  stick  ol  horseradish.  Cover  the  pan  close;  simmer  gen. 
tly  until  the  fish  is  done.  To  ascertain  this,  draw  a  fin  and 
taste  it.     T*ke  the  fish  up  in  a  hot  dish ;  thicken  the  gravy  witfc 


38  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  bcok. 

flour  rubbed  into  butter.  Stew  this  a  little  and  strain  over  th« 
fish ;  send  part  of  the  gravy  to  the  table  in  a  tureen ;  garniah 
with  pickled  mushrooms  or  scraped  horseradish. 


11.  Ti  Bake  Fish. — Clean  nicely;  keep  on  the  head  and  fiiia; 
rj-jr  inkle  ligktly  with  salt;  stuff  with  a  rich  force-meat  and  sew  the 
tides  together;  wind  tape  around  to  prevent  the  parts  from  tear 
irg.  Place  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  in  which  the  fish  is  to  );* 
baked,  two  or  four  skewers,  crossed ;  muffin-rings  will  answer,  or 
a  trivet.  This  will  slightly  elevate  the  fish  and  prevent  its  stick- 
ing or  burning.  Place  the  fish  upon  the  skewers;  pour  into  the 
oven  a  teacup  of  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven ;  baste  fre- 
quently,  with  lard  at  first,  and  then  with  its  own  drippings.  Do 
not  attempt  to  turn  the  fish ;  an  hour  will  bake  a  large  fish  if  the 
fire  is  well  managed ;  bake  slowly  ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  lit- 
tle flour;  if  not  rich  enough,  add  butter  and  season  with  wine, 
caviare  or  any  of  the  catsups  or  made  sauces.  A  gill  of 
wine  will  season  a  pint  of  gravy  ;  spices  may  be  used  if  liked ;  pep 
per  and  salt  to  taste.  If  the  stove  is  used  for  baking,  place  the  fish 
in  a  deep  pan  or  brown  stone  dish  ;  first  cover  it  all  over  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg ;  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  put  over  this  small 
pieces  of  butter ;  pour  into  the  stove-pan  a  little  water,  the  quantity 
must  depend  upon  the  size  of  \he  fish;  bake  slowly  mid  baste 
frequently  ;  caviare  should  be  put  upon  the  table  to  eat  with  the  fish. 
A  good  stuffing  for  baked  fish  is,  sliced  light  bread  covered  thick 
with  butter,  into  which  has  been  stirred  well,  pepper,  one  or  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  French  mustard  ;  saturate  the  bread  with  Sheny 
wine,  trim  otf  the  hard  crust;  cut  the  bread  in  proper  slices  for 
Is vini?  inside  of  the  fish.  Omit  the  wine  if  not  liked,  and  sub^iU 
tntc  tomato  or  mushroom  catsup. 


42.  To  Cook  Salt  Cod. — Soak  the  piece  intended  for  ise  \n 
plenty  of  tepid  water,  adding  to  each  gallon  of  water  a  teacup  of 
vinegar.  If  the  fish  Is  very  hard  and  dry,  use  a  tables poonfu I  of 
Baleratus  or  carbonate  of  soda  to  a  gallon  of  water.     Taste  i  u» 


ftsfi.  8* 

uf  the  flakes  to  ascertain  when  it  is  sufficiently  fresh.  Too  n.uch 
making  will  render  the  fish  insipid.  To  cook  it,  set  it  where  it 
will  heat  gradually  and  simmer  very  gently.  Boiling  will  mak* 
the  fish  hard  and  tough.  Pick  it,  when  done,  in  Hakes;  lenove 
the  skin,  and  poui  over  a  rich  egg  and  butter  sauce. 


43.  Codfish  and  Potatoes. — After  the  fish  is  done,  pick  it  'ion 
the  bones  as  \\\\e  as  possible.  Have  ready  as  mueli  cooked  Irish 
potatoes  as  you  have  fish ;  mash  them  fine  with  a  little  sweet 
cream,  two  or  three  hard-boHed  eggs,  chopped  fine,  and  a  little  fine- 
ly minced  onion,  if  the  flavor  is  liked.  To  one  pound  of  the  mix 
ture  add  a  wineglass  of  Madeira  wine,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 
Should  the  mixture  be  too  stiff  to  form  into  cakes,  moisten  with 
a  little  more  cream ;  fry  in  lard.  /ery  little  cooking  is  neces- 
sary. Or  make  this  into  a  large  oval  cake ;  put  it  in  a  baking- 
dish  ;  brush  it  over  with  melted  butter ;  strew  over  fine  bread 
crumbs ;  set  it  in  the  stove  just  long  enough  to  brown.  Send 
rich  sauce  in  a  boat  to  be  eater,  with  this,  when  baked.  If  fried, 
no  sauce  is  needed. 

Codfish  is  good  baked  after  being  boiled,  and  dressed  with  a 
rich  sauce  of  cream,  butter,  and  hard-boiled  eggs ;  rub  a  little 
flour  into  the  butter.  Parsley  shred  fine  may  be  used,  if 
liked. 


44.  Cod  Sounds  and  Tongues. — Cod  sourds  are  the  soft  parti 
about  the  jowl  of  the  fish,  which  are  taken  out,  salted  and  bar- 
relled. If  pickled,  soak  them  all  night  in  waim  water;  scrap* 
off  the  skin ;  boil  them  in  milk  and  water  until  tender;  n\v.i 
done,  drain  them,  and  pour  over  hot  egg    and  buttei  sauce. 


45.  Fish  Cutlets. — Cut  a  large  fish  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick;  roll  them  in  fine  Indian  meal,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard; 
or  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  line  brca  1  crumbs;  fry; 
garnish  with  parsley,  and  use   any  of  the  fisls  sauces.     Cutlet 


40  MRS    hill's  new  cook  book. 

may  also  be  stewed  and  seasoned  with  parsley,  thyme,  oni«.a 
pepper,  and  salt.  Very  few  minutes  will  be  required  to  cook 
them.     Serve  with  any  good  pickle. 


,  4G,  Tc  Souse  Fish. — Boil  the  fish  until  done ;  add  a  little  saH 
lake  equal  quantities  of  the  water  it  was  boiled  in  and  gooc  nne 
jar.  Season  highly  with  pepper,  cloves,  allspice,  and  ruace; 
bcil  the  spices  in  the  water  until  their  strength  is  extracted.  Cut 
off  tne  head  and  tail  of  the  fish ;  cut  the  rest  in  pieces  ;  pack  close 
in  a  stone  jar  and  pour  over  the  vinegar.  It  must  stand  a  day  or 
two  before  using.  Keep  the  jar,  well  covered,  in  a  cool  place. 
Should  more  vinegar  be  needed,  add  it  cold. 


47.  To  Pot  Shad  and  other  Fish. — Wash  the  fish;  lay  it 
several  hours  in  salt  and  water;  cut  it  in  slices  to  fit  the  jar  in 
which  it  is  to  be  potted.  Prepare  the  spices  by  mixing  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  two  of  pepper,  two  of  cinnamon,  one  of  all- 
spice, one  of  cloves  and  mace.  This  will  be  sufficient  to  season 
five  pounds  of  fish.  Put  in  the  jar  a  layer  of  fish,  one  of  spicea} 
sprinkled  over  evenly ;  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over ;  strew  over 
bits  of  butter;  then  another  layer  of  fish  and  seasoning,  and  so 
on  until  the  fish  is  all  in ;  pack  down  closely  ;  fill  the  jar  with 
vinegar  and  water,  half  of  each;  cover  the  jar  with  a  coarse  crust 
made  of  flour  and  water,  pressed  close  to  the  jar,  that  no  steam 
may  escape ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  six  hours ;  do  not  remove 
it  from  the  jar  until  cold;  slice  cold  for  supper  or  luncheon; 
serve  with  lemon. 


48  Croquettes  of  Fish. — Mince  cooked  fish  very  fine ;  removt 
il  bones  very  carefully ;  use  three  parts  of  bread  crumbs ;  season 
nighly  with  pepper  salt  and  mace  to  taste ;  add  one  egg,  a  little 
milk  and  flour ;  work  the  mixture  together ;  form  it  into  small 
cakes;  roll  them  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  ana 
6-v  in  hot  lard.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  head,  tail,  and  fins;  boil 
and  strain;  rub  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  an  even  tables  noon 


vsn.  41 

'ftil  of  flour;  add  this  to  the  gravy.     So  id  to  the  table  in  a  gravy 
boat;  garnish  with  sliced  lemon, 

49,  Salmon  and  Lobster  Salad — If  the  salmon  salad  is  madt 
if  the  fish  preserved  in  cans,  drain  it  from  the  oil ;  mince  ih# 
neat  fine;  cut  up  fine,  without  bruising,  a  third  as  much  lettuct 
&t  celery.  For  a  box  of  salmon  boil  four  eggs  hard  ;  lay  thorn 
in  cold  water  a  few  minutes ;  then  shell  them,  and  separate  the 
whites  from  the  yolks ;  lay  the  whites  aside ;  mash  the  yolk* 
smooth  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  olive  oil  or  melted 
butter,  or  a  teacup  of  sweet,  rich  cream ;  the  oil  makes  the 
smoothest  and  best  paste.  Strain  this  through  a  coarse  sieve. 
Dissolve  in  a  teacup  of  vinegar  one  teaspoonful  of  loaf  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  of  fine  mustard ;  pepper  to  taste ;  mix  this 
with  the  paste,  and  toss  lightly  over  the  meat  with  a  silver  fork. 
Ornament  the  dish  in  which  *»t  is  served  with  the  green  leaves  of 
the  celery,  or  with  curled  parsley  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut 
into  rings.  Lobster  salad  is  prepared  in  the  same  way.  Take 
the  nicest  parts  of  the  lobster. 


50.  Fricassee  Fish  and  Tomatoes. — If  the  fish  is  large,  cut  it  in 
pieces;  roll  these  in  flour;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  fry  about 
half  done,  and  of  a  light  brown  color;  take  the  fish  up  and  set  it 
aside.  Scald  and  skin  six  large  tomatoes,  more  if  they  are  small ; 
cut  up  a  good-sized  onion  fine;  mix  with  the  tomatoes;  fry  thtso 
in  butter,  stirring  them  to  prevent  their  scorching ;  pour  over  tho 
tomatoes  enough  boiling  water  to  make  sauce  for  the  fish ;  add  a 
wineglass  of  wine,  if  liked;  put  the  fish  in  the  stew  par  ;  simmer 
In  the  gravy  until  done.     Spices  may  be  used,  if  liked. 


51 .  To  Hash  Fish. — Take  any  kind  of  cooked  fish  (salt  mackerel 
is  very  good  prepared  in  this  way) ;  mince  the  meat  fne  and 
■eason  with  pepper;  have  a  third  as  much  Irish  potatoes  cooked 
and  mashed,  as  there  is  fish;  cut  up  fine  three  hard-boiled  eggs  • 
■tir  this  mixture  together;  into  a  stew-pan  put  a  tumbler  of  boj 


42  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

mg  water,  a  large  tablespoonfjl  of  butter;  stir  the  fish  into  the 
stew-pun,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  until  thoroughly  hot;  serve  in  a 
hoi,  covered  dish.  This  is  a  nice  breakfast  dish,  and  should  not 
be  prepared  until  the  last  moment.  Cold  fish  may  also  be  iuad« 
it  to  a  pillau ;  remove  all  banes;  cook  the  rice,  and  add  the  fisr 
railed  into  flakes,  just  long  enough  to  become  hot;  season  hig 
ffith  cayenne  pepper.  Some  persons  like  mace.  This  may  In 
mad  or  not,  as  may  be  preferred. 


52.  Chowder. — Cover  the  bottom  of  the  pot  in  which  the  chow 
der  is  to  be  cooked  with  slices  of  pickled  pork,  or,  if  preferred, 
use  a  large  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Take  any  kind  of  firm  fish 
(cod  and  bass  are  thought  best) ;  lay  them  over  the  pork  or  in 
the  lard.  If  pork  is  used,  first  fry  it  slightly  ;  if  lard,  make  it 
boiling  hot.  Strew  over  the  fish  a  layer  of  chopped  onions,  one 
of  split  crackers,  pepper  and  salt ;  spices  are  used,  if  liked,  but 
are  not  necessary ;  another  layer  of  fish,  onions,  crackers,  and 
seasoning,  until  all  the  fish  is  in;  dredge  with  flour;  just  cover 
the  fish  with  water ;  stew  gently  ;  half  an  hour  will  cook  one  of 
moderate  size.  Take  up  the  chowder ;  thicken  the  gravy  by  adding 
*  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  a  teacup  of  butter;  add  this  to  the 
gravy ;  stew  two  minutes ;  add  wine  or  catsup  if  liked.  Oyste* 
or  clam  chowder  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 


53.  Eels. — Dr.  Kitchiner's  Receipt  for  Stewing  Eels. — Kill  them 
by  piercing  the  spinal  marrow,  close  to  the  back  part  of  the  skull, 
witn  a  sharp-pointed  skewer.  If  done  in  the  right  place,  all 
motion  will  instantly  cease.  There  is  certainly  less  torture  by 
this  method  than  to  cut  and  skin  them  alive.  Rub  them  with 
lalt  until  the  slime  is  cleansed  from  them ;  wash  them  in  several 
waters;  divide  their,  in  pieces  about  four  inches  long;  lay  thi 
pieces  in  a  stew-pan.  If  a  large  eel,  pour  on  it  a  quart  of  cold 
^ter,  two  onions,  and  let  it  stew  twenty  minutes ;  strain  thi 
gravy  into  a  small  stew-pan ;  make  it  thick  as  cream  with  flour 
%dd  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  Port  wine,  and  mushrocm  catsup 


pour  this  over  the  eel ;  stew  two  minutes,  and  send  tc  the  tabU 
hot, 

54.  Tc  Fry  Eels. — Skin  them;  wash  well;  season  with  peppei 
tnd  salt;  roll  each  piece  in  line  Indian  meal;   fry  in  boiling  lai  j 
or  egg  them,  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  t'vy.     For  sauce,  u* 
melted  butter,  sharpened  with  lemon  juice. 


55.  To  Broil  Eels. — Skin  and  wash  them  ;  dry  them,  after  cut 
ting  in  pieces;  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  upon  them.  Pit  them  in 
an  oven  with  a  wineglass  of  water,  a  large  spoonful  of  butter ; 
baste  with  this  frequently.  Just  before  serving,  strew  ove»*  bread 
crumbs,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper:  put  on  the 
oven  lid  heated  with  coals,  and  brown  a  light  color. 


56.  To  Dress  Turtle  Steaks. — The  steaks  are  taken  from  the 
thick  part  of  the  turtle  fins  ;  season  them  well  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  mace.  Then  flour  them,  and  fry  quickly  in  butter  and  lard 
mixed  together.  When  fried,  pour  a  little  wrater  on  them,  and 
let  them  simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Just  before  serving, 
squeeze  a  lemon  over  the  steaks. 


57.  Lobster. — Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water;  salt  th* 
water,  a  tablespoonful  to  one  gallon;  tie  the  claws  »>l" the  lobster, 
and  put  him  in  the  pot  of  boiling  water  head  foremost.  Sa\« 
Mrs.  Hale:  " Many  people  are  shocked  at  the  apparent  cruelty 
of  killing  them  in  this  way,  but  death  takes  place  immediatt  lvt 
and  life  cannot  be  taken  away  without  pain."  This  is  certaii:!* 
taking  a  very  philosophic  view  of  the  subject,  and  if  lobstcrt 
could  reason,  would  no  doubt  be  consolatory  as  they  take  th 
awful  plunge.  Boil  briskly  for  half  an  hour;  take  them  from  the 
water  and  let  them  drain ;  cut  off  the  head  and  smal]  claws  the} 
are  never  used  ;  crack  the  shell  slightly  ;  remove  the  meat  care 
fully,  and  serve  hot  with  drawn  butter,  lemon  juice,  or  either  o/ 
the  flavored  vinegars;  they  require  &  piquant  sauce. 


44 

Lobste/s  may  be  served  in  a  variety  of  ways-  -boiled,  made  hits 
salad,  lobster  pie,  or  lobster  soup — and  rray  be  prepared  by  any 
of  the  fish  receipts.  The  male  lobster  I  best  for  boiling,  and  is 
knovvr  by  the  tail  being  narrower  and  'he  flesh  firmer  than  the  te 
en  ale.  The  hen  is  preferred  for  salad  and  sauces,  on  account  of 
the  coral.  It  gives  a  beautiful  red  color  to  sauces.  The  lobster 
leems  rather  an  extraordinary  creature,  having  some  decided 
peculiarities.  It  has  the  power  of  reproducing  horns  and  claws 
"  Its  flesh  is  in  its  tail  and  feet,  and  its  stomach  is  in  its  head." 
There  is  a  vein  running  in  the  back  of  the  head  called  "  ladies' 
finger,"  which  is  said  to  be  poisonous ;  hence  the  importance  of 
removing  the  head.  The  coral  must  not  be  boiled  :  this  wouM 
spoil  the  beautiful  red  color  which  makes  it  valuable  for  orna 
menting  sauces.  Beat  the  coral  with  butter  in  a  marble  mortar; 
rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  either  stir  it  to  the  sauce  or  mix  it  with 
the  lobster,  merely  putting  it  on  the  fire  a  few  minutes  to  heat. 


58.  Mrs.  K?s  Receipts  for  Cooking  Shrimps,  Crabs  and  Terra* 
pins. — Shrimp  Patties. — Chop  or  grind  one  soup-plate  of  peeled 
shrimps;  moisten  with  water  one  tumblerful  of  grated  light 
bread,  first  removing  the  crust ;  mix  well  with  the  shrimps  until 
a  smooth  paste  is  formed ;  add  a  heaped-up  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  salt,  cayenne,  and  black 
pepper  to  taste,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg ;  make  into  small  cakes 
and  fry  in  butter  or  lard,  a  light  brown  color. 


59.  Shrimp  Pie. — To  two  quarts  of  peeled  shrimps  add  two 
lahlespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  tomato  catsup,  half  a  tum- 
bler of  vinegar;  season  high' with  black  and  cayennr  pepper; 
ealt  to  taste;  put  into  an  earthen  dish;  strew  grated  biscuit,  oi 
light  bread  crumbs  very  thickly  over  the  top;  bake  slowly  half 
in  hour.  This  may  be  varied  by  using  Irish  potatoes  boiled 
*nd  mashed,  in  place  of  the   bread  crumbs ;  or  use  a  layer  of 

/imps,  then  macaroni,  previously  soaked  in  hot  sweet  milk. 


ftsh.  43 

60  To  Pickle  Shrimp*. —  Peel  the  fhrimps  ;  put  them  in  an 
anglazed  jar;  first  a  layei  of  shrimps,  then  one  of  mixed  spices, 
pepper  and  salt,  until  all  the  shrinks  are  in.  Pour  in  a  little 
water  and  boil  them.  When  done  and  cold,  cover  with  good 
rincgar  They  will  be  fit  for  use  in  twenty -four  hours,  and  if 
^o*ely  covered  will  keep  several  weeks. 


61  Shrimp  Sauce. — Skin  a  tumbler  of  shrimps;  boi]  the 
•kins  in  a  tumbler  of  water;  strain  the  water  from  them  en  a 
tumbler  two-thirds  full  of  butter,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a 
heaped  teaspoonful  of  flour;  simmer  a  few  minutes;  add  the 
shrimps  chopped  fine ;  let  them  stew  until  done.  Very  litf  'e 
cooking  is  necessary.  Salt,  pepper  and  catsup  to  taste.  A.  good 
fish  sauce. 


62.  Terrapins. — Boil  three  terrapins  until  the  bones  can  be 
easily  removed  ;  chop  the  meat  very  line  ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  one  pint  of  tomato  catsup,  half  a  pint  of  Sherry  or 
Madeira  wine,  one  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  two  onions 
boiled  and  chopped  fine;  salt,  black  and  red  pepper  to  taste;  all- 
spice and  nutmeg  may  be  used  if  liked;  stir  the  mixture  well ; 
scrape  and  clean  two  of  the  backs  ;  line  them  with  pufT-paste  ;  fill 
<v ith  the  mixture ;  cover  over  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  until  a 
ilirht  brown. 


63.  Crabs  in  the  Back. — Boil  the  crabs  ;  pick  the  meat  from 
hi  bones.  To  two  dozen  crabs,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh 
dive  oil,  one  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard ;  season  high 
tah  black  and  red  pepper;  clean  the  backs  well,  and  fill  as 
aany  a»  may  be  needed  with  the  mixture ;  cover  with  bread 
crurubs  and  bits  of  butter,  and  bake.  Crabs  are  boiled  alive  ap 
the  lobster,  and  "the  vein  upon  the  back"  must  also  be  removed. 
They  require  more  cooking  than  the  lobster.  Th°y  may  b* 
itewed.  and  are  considered  good  cold,  minced  very  fir.e  and  '  -°^ 


4#  MR8.    niLL'e    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

as  k  stuffing  to  the  large  sweet   oell  pepper,  or  may   be  srTTed 
cold,  well  seasoned  and  garnished  witn  If  non  and  celery. 


CI.  Satinderson's  Receipt  for  Cooh'tig  Ter-apinr, —  Tut  Ih^iu 
into  a  pot  of  boiling  water ;  let  then,  remain  until  dead  ;  U\k* 
fijem  up;  remove  the  outer  skin  and  t>e  nails;  wash  the  ieir* 
pins  in  warm  water;  boil  in  water  enough  to  cover  them  until 
tender,  adding  salt  to  taste  to  the  water  while  boiling  ;  take  off 
the  shells  ;  remove  the  sand-bag  and  gall  without  breaking  ;  add 
any  juice  which  may  have  run  out  while  cutting  up,  but  no  water; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  to 
each  terrapin ;  rub  into  the  butter  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  for 
thickening.  Put  these  into  a  stew-pan,  and  stir  well  while  the 
butter  is  melting ;  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  sweet  cream ; 
stir  this  in  well ;  add  enough  good  Madeira  wine  to  give  a  deli- 
cate vinous  taste  to  the  whole ;  stir  frequently  and  thoroughly., 
and  serve  very  hot. 

65.  Clams — Are  hard  and  soft-shelled.  They  may  be  cooked 
in  a  variety  of  ways,  using  the  receipts  for  lobster,  oyster  and 
fish.    They  are  used  for  pies,  soup,  fritters,  salad,  chowder,  etc 

To  stew  them,  wash  the  clams,  wipe  the  shells,  and  put  them  it» 
a  kettle,  with  the  edges  downwards  ;  cover  with  water;  boil  ovei 
a  brisk  fire  half  an  hour;  turn  out  of  the  shells  ;  put  into  a  stew 
pan,  a  large  heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter,  into  which  has 
been  rubbed  an  even  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  half  a  tumbler  of 
sweet  r^lk;  nopper  and  salt  to  taste.  Lay  the  clams  in,  and 
simmer  gently  a  few  minutes ;  the  abo  /e  for  a  quart  ot  clam*. 


66.  Oysters— -Wash  the  shells  clean  and  wipe  them  dry  with 
ft  coarse  towel ;  place  them  in  the  stove  oven,  or  put  a  larg« 
gridiron  upm  a  bed  of  solid  coals  and  lay  them  upon  this,  or  they 
may  be  placed  immediately  upon  the  coals.  As  soon  as  the  shell* 
are  hot  and  open  slightly,  take  them    up    with  oyster-tongs ;  pro 


Frsn.  47 

tecl  the  hand  wilh  a  thick  napkin,  and  carofull^  open  the  shell  so 
as  ;o  preserve  the  delicious  juice;  season  with  a  little  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar  if  liked.  Says  Dr.  Kitohiner:  "The  »e 
*U<»  wish  to  enjoy  this  delicious  bivalve  in  perfection,  must  eat  it 
Ibe  moment  it  is  opened,  with  its  own  gravy  in  the  under  sht  II  • 
J  not  eaten  absolutely  alive  its  spirit  and  flavor  are  lost."  Oyster 
Ji  ngs  for  taking  up  the  shells,  oyster- knives  for  forcing  them  open, 
1>  a  kets  to  receive  the  empty  shells,  and  thick  napkins  to  protect 
the  hands,  are  usually  furnished  with  the  oysters. 


67.  To  Stew  Oysters. — Strain  the  liquor  so  as  to  remove  every 
fragment  of  shell.  Mix  in  equal  proportions  sweet  mi'k  and 
the  oyster  liquor.  Add  to  a  quart  of  the  liquor  a  teacup  of  finely 
pulverized  bread  or  cracker  crumbs;  season  with  salt  and  pee- 
per ;  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Stew  this  gently,  stirring  frequent- 
ly, a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  add  the  oysters ;  stew  half  au 
V>ur,  or  less  time  if  preferred,  and  serve  hot.  Wine  and  spice* 
ire  sometimes  used  as  seasoning ;  use  Sherry  or  Champagne,  and 
mace  is  the  best  spice  for  oysters. 


68.  Oysters  a-la-blaze. — Place  a  chafing-dish  upon  the  table 
with  the  lamp  burning;  pour  in  the  oyster  liquor ;  season  with 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper ;  when  hot  add  the  oysters ;  cover  with 
the  chafing-dish  cover,  and  stew  fifteen  minutes ;  beat  two  eggs 
in  a  bowl ;  remove  the  dish  cover  and  pour  the  eggs  in,  stirring 
rapidly;  serve  from  the  chafing-dish  immediately.  Antthet 
wi-y. — Put  the  oysters  and  butter  to  stew  first,  and  when  the 
•vsters  begin  to  lose  their  slimy  appearance  add  sweet  cream 
in  J  their  liquor  in  equai  proportii  ns ;  a  few  bread  crumbs 
When  ready  to  boil,  serve. 


69  To  Fry  Oysters. — Scald  them  well  in  their  own  liquor ; 
wive  them  dry  f  make  a  thin  batter  and  drop  the  oysters  into  it, 
fake  up  each  oyster  in  a  spoonful  of  batter  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard;    when  of  e •  light  brwn  color,  they  are  done.     Lay  a  soft 


48  MRS.    HILL*8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

napkin  in  a  flat  dish  and  seive  the  oysters  upon  this;  they  will 
be  too  greasy  if  not  served  upon  a  napkin,  particularly  those  that 
ue  at  the  bottom  oi  the  dish. 

A  nother  way  to  fry  them  is  to  dip  them  in  the  yolk  :>f  an  egg 
in-i  afterwards  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  or  corn  meal  and  fry 
a  hot  lr,rd ;  always  wipe  each  oyster  dry  before  dipping  u  va 
brtjad  crumbs  or  egg.  If  gravy  is  liked,  pour  a  little  of  the  oys- 
ter liquor  into  the  frying-pan  ;  let  it  boil  up  just  a  minute,  and 
serre  in  a  sauce-boat.  Never  pour  gravy  over  anything  fried  in 
batter,  it  gives  it  a  sodden  appearance.  The  largest  should  be 
used  for  frying. 


70.  To  Broil  Oysters. — Wipe  them  dry  ;  dip  each  one  in  the 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  ;  roll  in  very  tine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs, 
first  seasoning  them  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready  pieces  of 
trell-buttered  foolscap  papei  cut  large  enough  to  roll  each  oyster 
in  a  separate  piece ;  twist  the  ends  of  the  paper  securely  and  lay 
them  upon  a  gridiron,  sufficiently  elevated  to  secure  them  from 
scorching  until  hot.  Have  ready  the  dish  upon  which  they  are 
tc  be  served  hot  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  turn  upon  it  the 
oysters,  roll  them  in  the  butter  and  serve  immediately  ;  use  an 
extempore  seasoning  of  caviare,  lemon-juice,  or  celery  vinegar,  as 
.jay  be  preferred. 


71.  To  Scallop  Oysters. — Grease  scallop  shells  or  an  eaithei 
baking-dish ;  put  in  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt  an<j 
thin  slices  of  butter;  then  a  layer  of  oysters;  repeat  this  unt' 
the  oysw,rs  are  in,  using  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  last  with  bits  of 
butter  over;  season  with  wine  and  spices,  or  celery  vinegai 
Scallops  are  also  good  made  with  layers  of  Irish  potatoes  mashe* 
and  highly  seasoned,  a  layer  of  each,  beginning  and  ending  wiv* 
potatoes ;  lay  over  a  few  bits  of  Gutter,  add  oyster  liquor  enou^ 
to  moister.  the  mixture,  and  bake  a  few  minutes.  Toinatoe*  an 
good  us°.d  in  this  way  ;  use  very  little  liquor. 


risn. 


72  Oyster  Patties.— Scald  together  a  pint  of  oyster  liquor 
ihreo  blades  of  mace,  six  cloves,  and  the  same  of  allspice ;  put 
into  a  stew-pan  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter.  Season  a 
pint  of  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  add  them  to  the 
butter,  set  the  stew-pan  on  the  stove;  as  the  butter  melts,  stit 
hem  carefully;  when  the  butter  is  hot,  but  not  boiling,  pour  tin 
oyster  liquor  in  ;  stir  all  together  and  let  it  stew  fifteen  minutes; 
set  this  aside  in  an  earthen  vessel.  Have  patty  pans  lined  witfi 
puff  paste  :  bake  them  a  light  brown  color ;  just  before  serving, 
fill  these  with  the  oysters.  They  should  be  eater  immediately, 
as  the  gravy,  by  soaking  in,  will  render  the  pastry  heavy. 

73.  Dressing  for  Cove  Oysters. — Put  one  pint  of  milk  on, 
lot  it  come  almost  to  a  boil,  beat  two  eggs,  stir  into  the  milk; 
add  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar  to  taste. 


73J.  Oyster  Sausages. — One  pint  of  oysters,  large  slice  of 
veal,  grind  them ;  half  as  much  bread-crumbs ;  season,  salt  and 
pepper,  make  in  cakes,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  flour  and  fry. 


74.  Ti  Pickle  Oysters. — For  this  purpose  use  large  oysters ; 
pick  out  all  pieces  of  shell ;  put  them  in  a  clean  pot,  and  to  every 
half  gallon  of  the  liquor  put  a  half  teaspojnful  of  red  pepper,  one 
of  black,  and  a  grated  nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt ;  add  as 
much  vinegar  as  liquor ;  simmer  them  five  minutes.  Take  them 
up  upon  large  flat  dishes  with  a  perforated  skimmer.  Let  the 
liqjor  stew  a  few  minutes  longer.  When  the  oysters  are  cold 
,)ut  them  into  cans  or  unglazed  jars  and  pour  over  the  liquor 
To  be  eaten  cold.  Garnish  the  dish  with  celery,  parsley,  oi  l«mona 
aa  may  be  preferred. 
S 


50  MRS     HILL  5    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

75.  To  Feed  Oysters. — Mix  salt  with  clean  water  in  the  pto 
portion  of  a  pint  of  salt  to  two  gallons  of  water:  change  it  in 
twsD*j-four  hours.  They  are  good  as  long  as  they  keep  firmly 
closed ;  when  they  are  lightly  closed  or  at  all  gape,  suspect  their 
•edition,  and  have  nothing  to  do  with  them. 


70  Tl  Keep  Fish  Fresh. — After  cleaning  the  fish,  spread  over 
t  a  mixture  of  one  teaspoonful  of  finely  pulverized  black  pepper, 
oue  of  fine  salt,  the  same  of  brown  sugar ;  wipe  the  fish  perfectly 
dry  to  prevent  its  moulding;  spread  this  mixture  over  evenly, 
and  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  This  quantity  will  be  sufficient  for  a 
large  shad,  and  will  preserve  it  two  days,  if  put  on  immediately. 


77.   To   Cook  Frogs. — Only  the  hind  legs  of  the  large  green 
kind  are  used ;  skin  them ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  broil 
r  fry  them ;  the  meat  is  beautifully  white ;  the  taste  delicate. 


78.  Mock  Oysters. — Take  brains  from  the  heads  of  hogs,  as 
whole  as  possible;  remove  the  skin  and  throw  them  into  salt  and 
water;  let  them  remain  in  this  two  hours;  then  bo.l  them,  until 
done,  in  sweet  milk;  take  them  up  in  an  earthen  bowl  or  dish, 
and  pour  over  weak  vinegar  to  cover  them ;  prepare  sufficient 
vinegar  to  cover  them,  by  adding  to  it  cloves,  allspice,  and  cinna 
inori  to  taste;  season  well  with  pepper,  using  part  red  pepper \ 
scald  this  vinegar;  pour  off  the  weak  vinegar;  cover  with  tha 
jpiced  vinegar.     Eat  cold,  or  stewed  with  crackers  as  ouster*. 


78^.  Fish  Roe  — Beat  up  with  eggs  and  fry  in  hot  lard  ;  of 
the}'  may  be  tied  up  in  a  cloth  boiled.  The  water  should  l>e  hot 
vhen.  they  are  put  to  boil.     E-it  with  butter  sauce. 


MEATS. 

/ 

■'  There  is  death  in  the  potn 

"Cookery,  pre  per  y  considered,"  writes  a  distinguished  pii/*i 
d«n,  "  is  an  art,  and  one  of  the  highest  and  most  useful  of  the  arts, 
based  on  chemical  science,  and  closely  related  to  physiology  and 
hygiene.  It  is  not  well  understood  among  us,  and,  with  the 
grea  est  abundance  and  variety  of  the  raw  material  for  good 
IrViig  with  which  any  nation  was  ever  blessed,  we  continue  to 
live  worse  than  any  civilized  people  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  If 
theie  is  'death  in 'the  pot'  (and  who  can  doubt  it  who  has  an 
extrusive  acquaintance  with  the  cooking  of  the  country?)  it  is» 
through  our  own  mixing  and  marring  that  it  has  generated 
there.  It  has  resulted  from  our  unscientific  manipulations.  In 
the  preparation  of  food  three  grand  objects  ought  to  be  kept  in 
view :  first,  to  retain  all  its  nutritive  and  other  valuable  dietetic 
qualities ;  second,  to  make  it  healthful ;  third,  to  make  it  pleasant 
to  the  eye  and  agreeable  to  the  taste." 


79.  Boiling  Meat. — Salt  meat,  meat  for  soup,  and  large  fish, 
should  be  put  to  boil  in  cold  water.  Should  poultry  or  fresh 
meat,  not  intended  for  soup,  be  put  to  boil  in  cold  or  boiling 
water?  This  is  a  "vexed  question."  Says  Professor  Liebig: 
"  If  a  piece  of  fresh  meat  be  put  into  cold  water,  and  this  heated 
to  boiling,  and  boiled  until  'done,1  it  will  become  harder,  aid 
have  less  taste  than  if  the  same  piece  had  been  thrown  into  waU»f 
already  boiling.  In  the  tirst  case,  the  matters  grateful  to  the 
•mell  and  taste  go  into  the  extract,  viz. :  the  soup;  in  the  second, 
the  albumen  of  the  meat  coagulates  from  the  surface  inward,  and 
envelopes  the  interior  with  a  layer,  which  is  impermeable  to 
#ater.     In  the  latter  case,  the  soup  will  be  indifferent,  the  meal 


52  mr&.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

delicious."  Opposed  to  this  is  the  authority  of  Dr.  Kitchiner 
lie  directs  that  fresh  meat  be  put  in  cold  water.  "  Let  the  watei 
heat  gradually,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  article.  For  in 
stance,  a  leg  of  inulton  of  ten  pounds  weight,  should  he  placed 
upor.  a  moderate  fire,  which  will  gradually  make  the  water  hot 
wr&oi-  causing  it  to  boil,  for  about  forty  minutes;  if  the  watei 
bov.a  much  sooner,  the  mea'.  will  be  hardened,  and  shrink  up  as 
if  serened;  by  keeping  the  water  a  certain  time  heating  without 
boiling,  the  fibres  of  the  meat  are  dilated,  and  it  yields  a  quantity 
of  scum,  which  must  be  taken  off  as  soon  as  it  rises." 

I  consider  Dr.  Kitchiner  the  wisest  and  most  reliable  writer 
upon  the  subject  of  cookery  I  have  ever  read.  For  over  thirty 
years  his  "  Cook's  Oracle  "  has  been  my  favorite  text-book,  and  1 
gratefully  acknowledge  my  obligations  to  him.  But,  while  I  re- 
gard.it  as  a  kind  of  heresy  to  differ  from  the  Doctor  in  any  of 
his  opinions,  and  have  seldom  found  it  to  my  advantage  to  do  so, 
yet  1  must,  in  the  point  at  issue,  assert,  as  the  result  of  my  expe- 
rience, that  a  middle  course  is  best,  securing  sufficiently  ail  the 
advantages.  The  water  should  be  hot  but  not  boiling.  To  im- 
merse the  meat  at  once  in  boiling  water,  contracts  the  outer  skin 
so  rapidly  as  to  toughen  the  skin,  and  the  meat  parts  with  few  of 
its  impurities.  When  hot  water  is  used,  raise  it  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point.  Gentle  stewing  and  boiling  is  always  best.  Cover 
the  article  to  be  boiled  with  water.  A  good  proportion  is  a 
quart  of  water  to  a  pound  of  meat.  While  it  is  necessary,  the 
meat  should  be  covered  with  water  during  the  whole  process ;  it 
must  not  hav»  more  than  is  necessary.  "  The  less  water,  pro 
vided  the  meat  be  covered  with  it,  the  more  savoury  will  be  the 
meat,  and  the  better  will  be  the  broth."  The  ves«  el  in  which  the 
meat  is  placed  should  be  well  adapted  to  the  size  of  the  meat— 
•ot  so  large  as  to  require  too  much  water,  nor  so  small  as  to 
iramp  the  article  to  be  cooked.  It  should  have  a  well-fitting 
cover,  and  be  kept  on  during  the  process,  removing  it  occasion* 
ally  (always  dust  it  first)  to  skim  the  liquor. 

•\ttci.d  well   to  the  skimming,  and  remove  carefully  all  ink 


MEATS.  59 

purities  as  fast  as  they  rise.  It  is  important  to  have  this  well  at 
tended  to,  or  the  meat  will  not  make  a  good  appearance.  Should 
the  water  become  two  much  reduced  before  the  meat  is  done, 
replenish  with  boiling  water ;  always  keep  a  kettle  of  hot  water 
o  meet  this  and  other  demands.     When  boiling  fresh  meat.,  it  m 

good  plan  to  place  on  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  skewers  crossed, 
mi  if  fin- rings,  a  trivet,  or  plate  inverted  (either  of  these  will  an- 
swer), so  as  to  elevate  it  a  few  inches,  and  render  the  meat  lesi 
liable  to  scorch.  The  pot  should  never  boil  over ;  thereby  excel 
lent  broth  is  lost,  which  a  frugal  good  cook  will  always  convert 
into  a  savory  soup.  Says  Dr.  Kitchiner  :  "  It  is  a  waste  of  fuel 
to  put  it  under  a  boiling  pot.  If  a  vessel  containing  water,  bo 
placed  over  a  steady  fire,  t»»e  water  will  grow  continually  hotter, 
until  it  reaches  the  limit  of  boiling,  after  which  the  regular  ac- 
cessions of  heat  are  wholly  spent  in  converting  it  into  steam." 
Count  Uumford,  in  one  of  his  essays,  says:  "It  is  natural  to 
suppose  that  many  of  the  finer  and  more  volatile  parts  of  food, 
those  which  are  best  calculated  to  act  on  the  organs  of  taste, 
must  be  carried  off  with  the  steam,  when  the  boiling  is  violent." 
A  perfect  knowledge  of  the  time  required  for  cooking  meat,  as  it 
depends  upon  so  many  circumstances,  can  only  be  acquired  by 
practice  and  close  observation.  If  proper  attention  is  paid  to 
the  fire,  and  the  pot  really  boils,  twenty-five  minutes  to  the  pound 
will  be  sufficient,  counting  from  the  appearance  of  the  first  bub 
ble,  for  salt  meat ;  twenty  minutes  for  fresh.  Salt  meat  requires 
more  time  than  fresh ;  and  more  time  is  required  in  cold  t*mn 
warm  weather. 

Should  meat  freeze,  thaw  it  before  cooking,  by  immersin^  » 
in  cold  water,  or  it  will  be  tough. 

Never  let  meat  or  poultry  remain  in  the  broth  ater  it  is  don» 
It  should  be  served  as  soon  as  ready  for  the  table,  or  it  will  d% 
come  sodden. 


80.    To  Boil  a  Ham.~- Although  then'    are  v?'y  few  Southern 
kitchens  in  which  the  pot  is  net  made  to  boil  every  day,  yet  in 


54  MRS.   hill's   new   cook    BOOK. 

the    fewest   number  is    it    well    done.      The    process    is   simpl* 
enough,  and  tbn  failures  are  the  result  of  irregularity  and  inafr 


Carre— Cut  in  the  line  B,  C. 

trntion  The  cook,  as  a  general  thing,  places  her  pot  o?er  a 
fierce  fire,  which  starts  the  water  boiling  with  a  gallop.  The 
scum  rises  to  the  top,  and  is  permitted  to  remain.  Othei  btisi 
ness  engages  her  attention  The  pot  for  awhile  is  forgotten,  and 
when  at  length  it  is  remembered,  and  looked  into,  the  liquor 
is  found  too  much  reduced.  This  is  replenished  with  cold  water, 
the  fire  is  stirred,  and  the  boiling  goes  on  through  the  same  process. 

With  this  kind  of  management,  is  it  strange  that  even  our  fa- 
vorite every-day  dish  of  boiled  ham,  is  seldom  put  upon  the 
table  well  cooked  ? 

After  washing  and  scraping  the  ham  well,  place  it  in  a  vessel 
that  will  hold  it  without  cramping,  and  cover  every  part  of  it, 
and  three  inches  over,  with  cold  water ;  boil  slowly  and  steadily. 
A  ham  weighing  ten  pounds  will  require  four  hours.  They 
are  seldom  boiled  long  enough.  Be  sure  the  pot  boils ;  skim 
frequently  ;  keep  the  pot  well  covered  ;  avoid  piercing  the  meat ; 
thi?  makes  unsightly  marks  and  lets  out  the  juices.  When  d<>no 
l&)  the  ham,  before  skinning,  in  a  stove-pan,  and  set  it  in  iht 
dven ;  half  an  hour's  baking  will  improve  it.  After  the  ham  a 
taken  up,  cabbage,  greens,  beans,  etc.,  may  be  boiled  in  tti 
broth  It  is  not  proper  to  boil  cabbage,  or  any  kind  of  greens 
with  the  ham,  as  they  impart  a  disagreeable  taste  to  the  meat. 
An  old  salt  ham  should  be  soaked  several  hours  before  boiling. 
After  being  skinned,  hams  may  be  ornamented  in  different  waya. 


MEATS.  55 

Brush  over  the  top  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs ;  sift  over  fine 
eracker  or  bread  crumbs  evenly  ;  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  inod<  rate 
oven,  or  cover  with  a  thin  coat  of  Irish  potatoes,  rubbed  through 
t  colander.  Set  it  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven.  When  to  be 
axed  for  party  occasions,  and  it  is  desired  to  make  them  parti** 
larlf,  jiae,  the  skin  may  be  permitted  to  remain;  cut  this  t 
diain  >i  d  shapes  with  a  sharp  knife,  leaving  the  skin  on  alternate 
ly  ;  fill  the  skinned  shapes  with  grated  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  or 
grated  carrots  or  beets;  trim  the  dish  with  celery  tops.  Another 
w  ay  :  Skin  the  ham  ;  lay  it  off  in  diamond  shapes  with  cloves, 
sticking  the  stems  into  the  meat;  fill  alternately  with  the  grated 
yolks  and  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs;  be  careful  not  to  mis 
them  ;  garnish  the  dish  with  green  sprigs  of  parsley.  They  are 
very  pretty  ornamented  with  flowers  cut  from  vegetables ;  make 
red  roses  of  beets;  yellow  of  carrots;  white  with  turnips;  use 
curled  parsley  or  mustard  for  leaves ;  wrap  the  knuckle  with 
fringed  letter  paper. 


81.  Miss  F.'s  Receipt  for  Preparing  Whole  Hams  for  Parties. 
— Boil  them  very  done,  and  skin  them ;  when  cold,  cut  through  the 
nam  in  slices  to  the  bone  ;  but  do  not  cut  the  slices  from  the  bone. 
Between  each  slice,  put  thin  slices  of  pickle,  and  detach  the 
slices  as  needed.  The  ham  dressed  by  either  of  these  receipts 
will  show  to  better  advantage  by  being  slightly  elevated  above 
the  dish ;  garnish  with  celery  tops  or  something  green. 

These  last  receipts  are  entirely  for  ornament.     If  "  good  wine 
needs  no  bush  "  a  well-cured,  well-boiled  ham  needs  no  ornament 
to   secure   general    appreciation.     White   cabbage,  beans,  peas 
IiUh  and  sweet  potatoes  are  good  accompaniments.     Save    th 
essence  or  gravy  of  the  ham  for  the  soup  kettle. 


82.  To  Know  when  Hams  are  Sound. — Stick  a  sharp  knife  to  *Jmi 
boue  in  the  thickest  part  of  the  ham,  and  also  run  it  around  the 
knuckle.  If  there  is  any  taint,  you  can  detect  it  by  smelling  and 
ex  a  i.  lining  the  knife. 


56  MRS.    HILL  8    NEW    COOK     HOOK. 

83.  To  0 laze  a  Ham. — Brush  over  the  ham  (using  a  feather  oi 
brush)  wi*Ji  the  yolk  of  an  egg-,  cover  thickly  with  brea.1 
crumbs.  Go  over  it  with  thick  cream  ;  put  it  in  the  stove  oi 
i.vcn  to  Drown;  put  the  glaze  on  half  an  inch  thick  ;  if  necesaarj 
g  )  over  the  second  time. 


84.  To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Pork. — Pork  requires  longer  tx  ilii>$ 
than  any  other  meat.  If  it  has  been  salted  six  or  eight  days, 
soak  it  an  hour  before  cooking;  scrape  and  wash  it  carefully; 
singe  off  any  hairs  with  a  piece  of  burning  paper  or  corn  shuck. 
Avoid  making  incisions  about  the  knuckle;  this  lets  out  the 
ju-ce.  Put  it  to  boil  with  the  water  warm  only  ;  boil  slowly  and 
steadily,  skimming  carefully ;  keep  the  cover  on ;  this  will  not 
only  keep  out  the  smoke,  but  retain  much  of  the  nutritive  pro 
perties  of  the  meat ;  should  the  least  dross  remain  upon  the  meat 
when  done,  scrape  it  again.  It  should  go  to  the  table  white, 
clean,  and  thoroughly  done,  and  yet  not  boiled  until  the  meat 
drops  from  the  bone.  This  is  good  cold,  or  slightly  broiled  and 
buttered.  A  peas  pudding,  from  time  immemorial,  has  been 
considered  the  proper  accompaniment  for  this  dish ;  boiled  tur- 
nips, dressed  with  butter  and  cream,  are  also  excellent ;  when 
cold,  nothing  can  be  better  than  chow  or  French  mustard  as  an 
accompaniment. 


85.  To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Mutton. — The  mutton  should  be  fat ; 
unless  it  is,  I  would  advise  its  being  cr  oked  some  other  w  ay ; 
very  few  things  are  more  insipid  than  poor  boiled  mutton,  if 
should  be  killed  the  evening  before  it  is  to  be  cooked.  For  ri>a*»w 
mg  it  may  be  kept  longer;  but  for  boiling,  if  kept,  the  meat  viD 
be  dark.  To  prevent  it  being  discolored  by  the  action  of  \he  lii 
tie  it  in  a  bag,  and  suspend  it  until  needed.  Put  it  in  a  Iaig« 
stew-pan  or  boiler;  cover  with  water  merely  warm  ;  boil  stead 
ily;  skim  well,  and  keep  it  well  covered.  Some  persons  boil  >c 
a  well -floured  cloth,  tying  it  at  the  ends;  this  is  superfluous  \i 
the  water  is  kept  well  .skimmed  :  put  in  salt  when  the  meat  is  hull 


MEATS.  51 

ioae.  A  leg  weighing  toL  pounds  will  require  throe  hours1 
steady  simmering;  take  it  up  as  soon  as  done;  ser\e  with  caper 
or  egg  sauce ;  or  make  a  rich  gravy  of  some  of  the  broth ;  add 
SMisrry  wine  and  tomato  catsup  to  taste;  butter,  if  needed. 


80.  7b  Boil  a  Loin  of  Mutton. — Skin  the  loin;  remove  all 
i  no ;  crack  the  bones ;  put  them  with  the  skin  in  a  stew  pan,  and 
Dovei  with  cold  water;  cut  up  fine  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  tho 
same  of  thyme,  and  one  large  onion;  put  them  into  the  stew-pan 
with  the  bones;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  let  this  stew  gently 
until  all  the  gravy  is  extracted  from  the  bones  and  skin.  Put  the 
mutton  on  in  a  vessel  large  enough  to  hold  it,  having  a  well-fitting 
cover;  pour  upon  it  a  pint  of  warm  water,  half  a  pint  of  good  to- 
mato catsup  ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  gently  three  hours,  turning  it 
over  frequently.  Just  before  the  mutton  is  done,  strain  over  it  the 
gravy  from  the  bones;  let  all  stew  together  five  minutes.  Some 
persons  prefer  wine  to  the  catsup ;  when  used,  take  a  tumblerful 
of  good  Madeira  wine;  scald  two  blades  of  mace,  half  a  dozen 
cloves,  a  dozen  grains  of  allspice  in  it,  and  add  to  the  mutton  half 
an  hour  before  it  is  done,  and  use  a  tumblerful  more  of  water  when 
it  is  first  put  to  boil.  Lamb  may  be  boiled  by  either  of  these 
receipts,  but  is  not  good  boiled,  unless  very  fat  and  well  grown. 


87.  To  Boil  a  Loin  of  Veal. — Take  ten  pounds  of  the  best  part 
of  the  loin ,  bind  the  flap  around  with  broad  tape;  place  it  in  the 
kettle,  and  manage  as  directed  for  mutton;  take  it  up  as  soon  as 
Irne  or  the  meat  will  lose  its  freshness  and  firmness.  Being  an 
n^ipid  meat,  a  highly-seasoned  gravy  is  necessary;  oyster  sauce 
nay  be  used,  also  onion  or  tomato  sau~e.  The  loin  is  generally 
•steemed  the  best  part  of  the  calf.  Veal  should  be  kept  sua 
ponded  in  a  bag,  and  wiped  very  dry.  It  taints  very  easily. 
Though   -ften  boiled,  it  is  better  roasted  or  stewed. 


88.    To  Boil  a  Calf's  Head. — After  being  well  cleaned,  it  is  tost 
fc»  ke**p  the  skin  on  ;  it  will  require  an  hour  longer  in  caking  whei 


66  MRS.    HILI.'s    NEW    COOK    ROOK. 

the  skiii  is  retained.  The  head  should  be  fat.  Cut  apfcrr  n«  hppei 
and  lower  jaws ;  remove  the  eyes ;  they  are  never  used.  Take  ( ut 
the  bone  containing  the  teeth,  also  the  nose  and  ears;  cut  out  tne 
tongue;  remove  the  brains;  put  the  head  and  tongue  to  boil  ir 
enough  warm  water  to  cover  them;  tie  the  brains  in  a  cloth 
l>cil  all  until  tender;  vegetables  may  be  boiled  with  the  head 
jf  liked — onions,  carrots,  parsley,  and  thyrre;  serve  the  heaa 
upon  one  dish ;  upon  another  place  the  tongue  and  brains,  or  make 
sauce  of  the  brains ;  take  a  pint  of  the  broth,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan ; 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley  chopped  fine ;  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper  to  taste ;  let  these  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  add  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a  dessert- 
spoonful  of  flour ;  stew  this  five  minutes,  and  serve  with  the 
head ;  use  the  remainder  of  the  broth  for  soup.  It  is  the  basis  of 
mock  turtle  soup.  Season  the  brains  with  sage,  if  the  flavor  is 
liked ;  garnish  with  lemon. 

89.  Beef  Bouilli. — Take  five  or  six  pounds  of  good,  tender 
Deef  from  the  rump,  brisket,  or  long  ribs;  the  rump  or  round  is 
best.  Put  a  trivet  or  muffin-rings  on  the  bottom  of  a  deep  stew 
pan  or  pot ;  cover  with  warm  water  two  inches  deep ;  boil  rathei 
briskly  until  the  water  is  clear ;  skim  closely ;  then  put  in  three 
or  four  large  turnips  sliced,  two  carrots  grated,  two  onions  cut 
up  fine,  a  tablespoonful  each  of  parsley  and  thyme,  chopped  fine 
Let  the  pot  stand  where  the  water  will  simmer  gently  and  steadily 
until  the  meat  is  tender;  take  up  the  meat;  put  as  much  of  tin 
broth  into  a  stew-pan  as  is  needed  for  gravy;  rub  to  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  flour;  put  this 
into  the  stew-pan;  stew  five  minutes;  add  to  the  gravy  a  good 
seasoning  of  tomato  or  mushroom  catsup;  lay  the  vegetables 
around  the  meat;  use  the  broth  for  soup,  after  taking  out  enougk 
foi  gravy;  a  dish  of  ti  nips  may  be  served  with  this. 

00.  To  Boil  Corned  Btcf. — Soak  the  beef  over  night  in  plenty 
•f  water  to  cover  it  well.    At  nine  o'clock  next  morning,  wash  ili« 


MKATB.  W 

piece  lull,  put  it  hi  the  pot  and  cover  with  cold  watei  ;  b<  il  slow 
lv  ;  sk.ni  frequently.  If  it  is  to  be  served  cold,  let  it  remain  in 
the  jx>t  until  it  becomes  sc. 

To  prepare  it  for  luncheon  or  as  a  supper  dish,  rem<  ve  all  the 
boaes  when  thoroughly  done,  pick  the  meat  as  for  salad  and  pack 
ji  a  deep  dish,  putting  in  alternately  fat  and  lean.  Skim  th 
liquor,  removing  all  fat ;  boil  this  broth  until  reduced  one  half;  pout 
Into  the  dish  as  much  of  it  as  may  be  needed  to  fill  all  the  spaces 
left  in  packing  the  meat;  lay  over  this  a  flat  cover  that  will  just 
fit  it,  place  a  heavy  weight  upon  this.  It  is  best  to  prepare  this 
dish  in  cold  weather,  or  put  upon  ice  the  dish  it  was  prepared  in. 
Serve  it  upon  a  plate  or  round  dish,  and  garnish  with  green  sprigs 
of  parsley,  or  celery ;  serve  with  it  chow,  picillilla  or  any  good 
pickle.     French  mustard  is  excellent  eaten  with  it. 


91.  To  Boil  a  Salt  Tongue. — Soak  it  over  night  in  plenty  of 
water.  Put  it  to  boil  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  it;  while 
Doiling,  if  it  is  too  salt,  change  the  water;  it  requires  long  boil- 
nig.  Ascertain  when  it  is  done  by  running  a  small  skewer  .1. ; 
skin  it  carefully,  remove  the  rough  part  of  the  root,  and  gai  rush 
the  dish  with  parsley.  Slice  round.  This  is  eaten  hot  as  a  dinner 
dish,  or  cold  for  supper.  Smoked  tongue  is  prepared  in  the  same 
way.  Be  sure  they  are  boiled  until  tender  ;  a  fresh  tongue  must 
be  first  boiled  and  then  dipped  in  beaten  egg,  rolled  in  bread 
crumb  *  and  baked  in  a  pan.  Pour  in  a  tumbler  of  the  broth  it  was 
boiled  in;  baste  well  with  butter;  half  an  hour  will  be  sufficient 
lime  for  it  to  bake.     Reason  the  gravy  with  any  good  catsup. 


92  To  Boil  Cow-heel. — After  being  well  cleaned  bcil  them  un 
til  the  bones  can  be  removed  easily ;  skin  them  and  serve  with 
parsley  and  onion  sauce. 

.Cleat;  the  feet  by  immersing  them  in  boiling  water;  let  them 
remain  long  enough  to  loosen  the  horny  part;  run  a  knife  around 
and  under  the  horn;  force  it  nil',  scrape  and  wash  well.  This  it 
an  tu*>nomical  dish,  nutritive  and  agreeable,  wheu  well  prepared 


©0  MRS.    HILL'S    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

it  is  g»d  fried,  after  being  boiled,  or  stewed  tid  dressed  with 
cream  and  butter;  cut  it  in  pieces  of  convenient  o»ze  for  serving 


93.  To  Boil  Tripe. — As  soon  as  possible  aft<:r-the  animal  it 
kill e<f ,  have  the  stomach  emptied  and  well  washed  in  cold  water; 
prinkle  lime  or  ashes  over  the  inside,  fold  it  carefully  and  lay  i\ 
m  a  jar  or  smaL  ruo ;  cover  it  with  tepid  water  for  six  hours ; 
scrape  off  all  the  dark  part.  When  all  this  is  removed,  wash  ia 
several  waters  and  again  lay  the  tripe  away  for  a  daj  and  night 
in  weak  salt  water  (use  another  jar  than  the  one  n.-at  used,  or 
scald  that  well  and  sun  it).  Boil  the  tripe  (putvng  to  it  cold 
water)  until  a  straw  can  be  easily  run  through  it  and  the  edges  look 
transparent;  skim  closely,  and  when  the  tripe  is  tender,  take  it 
up  and  cut  it  in  uniform  slices  of  convenient  size  for  serving ; 
pour  over  milk,  or  milk  and  water,  to  cover  it,  and  keep  it  closely 
covered  ;  should  the  milk  turn  a  little  sour  it  will  not  injure  the 
tripe,  as  it  is  usual  to  add  vinegar  in  cooking  it.  It  should  not  be 
kept  long ;  either  fry,  stew,  or  make  into  a  pillau  or  hash.  When 
made  into  hash,  use  onion  freely  and  cover  over  with  pickle. 


94.   To  Boil  a  Turkey. — Truss  ;t  with  the  legs  drawn  in  ;  skewei 

the  wings;  remove  the  skewers 
before  serving.  For  boiling,  se- 
lect a  fowl  of  fair  skin;  aftei 
cleaning  it  well,  if  young  and 
the  weather  is  cold,  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  on  the  inside,  and  either 
put  it  in  a  bag  and  suspend  it  or  wrap  it  carefully  in  a  clean 
Cloth  and  turn  it  over  after  it  has  lain  four  or  five  hours  ;  neither 
poultry  nor  fresh  meat  for  boiling  can  be  kept  so  long  as  lor 
roasting ;  the  meat  wi'l  not  look  white. 

When  the  hour  for  putting  it  in  the  pot  arrives,  stuff  it  with  t 
rich  stuffing  previously  prepared  in  the  following  manner:  half  & 
pound  of  bread  crumbs,  large  heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the 
soft  part  at"  twenty  or  thirty  oysters  (according  to  the  size  of  the 


MEATS.  61 

turkey),  season  with  pepper  find  salt;  mix  these  intimatrlj  and 
carefully.  For  variety,  I  sometimes  season  with  mace  or  nutmeg 
aiiJ  a  few  cloves.  After  stuffing  the  fowl  well,  but  not  too  full — a 
little  room  should  be  left  for  the  force-meat  to  swell — cutoff  the 
;te'.;>.  o  >ne ;  put  in  a  little  stuffing,  enough  to  give  the  craw  a  plump 
;n->k;  draw  over  the  skin  tightly  and  tie  securely;  dredge  thf 
t<  >  * ]  v.  ell  with  flour ;  place  a  trivet  or  muffin-rings  in  the  bottom  j 
the  vessel ;  lay  the  turkey  upon  them  and  cover  with  warm  water. 
Place  the  pot  where  it  will  boil  gently  and  equally  ;  skim  closely 
until  the  water  is  very  clear.  Replenish  if  necessary  with  boii 
ing  water.  A  large  turkey  will  require  two  hours  and  a  half 
steady  boiling;  keep  it  well  covered  through  the  process.  Serve 
with  oyster  sauce,  or  any  kind  of  rich  white  sauce. 

Poultry  for  boiling  should  be  very  fat ;  when  the  fowl  is  old, 
rub  the  inside  with  soda  instead  of  salt  as  soon  as  it  is  killed ; 
wash  it  off  before  cooking. 


95.  To  Boil  Ducks  or  Chickens. — Kill  them  over  night ;  wrap 
them  closely  with  cloths.  If  a  little  old,  rub  the  inside  with  soda ; 
early  next  morning  lay  the  fowls  in  a  deep  pan  and  cover  witb 
milk  and  water,  or  water  only,  if  it  is  not  convenient  to  use  u. ilk 
Boil  by  the  d  ctions  for  boiling  a  turkey,  and  use  stuffing  or  not 
as  may  be  )  d.  A  good  stuffing  may  be  made  of  mashed  1  /ish 
potato,  seaf  v  jd  with  a  little  onion,  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  moist- 
ened with  ..  rtle  sweet  milk,  or  rilled  with  oysters,  chopped.  Boil 
until  ten  a  .  the  time  will  depend  upon  the  age  of  the  fowl ;  half 
an  hour  is  generally  sufficient;  but  never  send  them  to  tabh  un- 
derdone. Serve  with  parsley  and  butWr  sauce,  egg  or  onion  vine*, 
vomit.)  or  oyster  sauce,  as  may  be  preferred.  A  druble  kettle  an 
**v,rs  admirablv  for  boiling  them;  unless  fowls  are  fat,  n**ei 
boil  them. 


00.  A  Delicate  Way  to  Cook  Fowls,  Rabbit,  Veal,  or  Lamb.—  Keep 
the  meat  until  tender.  Cut  it  in  pieces  proper  for  serving,  if 
meat,  or  \  njoint  if  a  fowl.     In  '.he  bottom  of  a  double  kettle  oi 


62  MRS      HILLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

ULgtazcd  stone  jar,  put  a  layer  of  meat  or  whatever  is  to  be  c<»ok 
ed;  strew  over  one  tumblei  jl  of  white  onion  cut  small.  Chnj 
fine  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley  and  thyme  mixed  ;  salt  and  p«;p 
per  to  taste.  Pour  over,  if  a  j^_  is  used,  a  pint  of  tepid  water 
Slid  tie  over  a  oladder  or  very  thiek  piece  of  cloth  fllded  se\era, 
tircej  so  that  the  steam  will  not  escape.  (If  the  double  kettle  it 
usee  the  water  and  cloth  are  unnecessaiy.)  Place  the  jar  into 
pot  of  water  that  will  come  within  five  or  six  inches  of  the  top, 
just  as  near  the  top  as  possible  without  the  water  getting  ir.to 
the  jar ;  let  the  pot  boil  until  the  meat  is  done,  but  not  overdone. 
Strain  the  gravy  into  a  stew-pan  ;  thicken  sufficiently  with  flour ; 
stew  five  minutes  and  pour  over  the  meat.  Wine  and  spices 
may  be  used  for  invalids,  omitting  the  onion. 


97.  To  Blanquette  Chicken. — Prepare  the  chicken  (which 
should  be  young  and  fat)  as  for  boiling;  dredge  it  well  with 
flour ;  make  a  rich  crust  (potato  is  best) ;  roll  out  a  sheet  largo 
enough  to  envelop  the  fowl ;  it  should  be  as  thin  as  pie  crust. 
Wrap  this  around  the  fowl,  carefully  closing  it  on  the  back;  roll 
a  thin  napkin  around  this.  Boil  until  tender ;  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  will  be  sufficient  for  a  young  pullet.  Kill  the  fowl  over 
night ;  aerve  with  egg  and  butter  sauce  poured  o'  r ;  rice  must 
always  accompany  it. 


08  Mrs.  TV*  Receipt  for  Boiling  Chickens  or  L  *.  **. — Truss 
them  whole;  fill  the  inside  with  oysters.  Put  them  .  a  doublo 
kettle;  boil  until  tender;  pour  the  gravy,  when  the  fowl  is  done, 
into  a  stew-pan  ;  rub  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  into  a  light  tablespoon 
ful  of  butter;  add  this  to  the  gravy ;  let  it  simmer  five  minutes 
Take  three  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine  ;  just  before  serving  th« 
IL'aI,  a  Id  these  to  the  grav)  and  a  teacup  half  full  of  hot  cream 
Poui  this  ovei  the  chicken. 


99.  A  nether  very  Excellent  Way  *o  Cook  Grown  Fowls  —Koihnt 
fowl  until  tender;  firs',  keeping  it  long  enough  after  it  is  killed  U 


MEATS.  6S 

dc  ripe  for  cooking.  Pull  it  to  pieces,  taking  o-t  all  the  bonus; 
put  it  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  tumblerful  of  the  broth  it  was  boihd  in,  * 
tablespoonful  of  butter  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  in, 
salt  to  taste  •,  season  high  with  Cayenne  pepper.  Stir  in  this  a  ra* 
*  ell-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  wineglass  or  two  of  Madeira  wins 
<f  ith  a  teaspoonful  of  loaf  sugar,  powdered  and  stirred  in  th* 
f  ine ;  add  this  to  the  gravy,  or  use  the  same  quantity  of  tomato 

JtttPUp. 

Chickens  may  also  be  dressed  in  this  way,  and  a  tumbler  of 
laushrooms  cut  up  and  stewed  in  the  gravy. 


100.  Scrajle. — Boil  a  fresh-killed  hog's  head  tender.  This  it 
made  in  the  winter  during  what  we  at  the  Smith  call  "hog-kill- 
ing." Take  it  up  and  remove  all  the  bones;  chop  the  meat  very 
fine  and  season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sage,  as  sausage  meat; 
•train  the  liquor;  wipe  out  the  pot  nicely;  return  the  broth  to 
•he  pot ;  there  should  be  about  a  quart  of  this.  Put  the  meat  back 
u.d  stir  into  the  broth  fine  corn  meal  until  the  mas3  is  the  consist- 
nice  of  soft  mush ;  let  this  simmer  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequent 
y  ;  pour  the  mixture  into  pans  three  or  four  inches  deep.  When 
oold  slice  in  thin  slices,  roll  in  corn  meal  or  flour,  and  fry  in  boil- 
ing lard,  a  light  brown.  This  keeps  as  well  as  souse  j  it  should 
be  web  motected  from  dust  and  air. 


101.  Souse.-  -The  feet  and  ears  oi  tfce  bo^  are  best  for  this, 
though  the  upper  part  of  the  head  ',  often  u*ea,  "moving  the  fat 
where  there  is  too  much.  To  pr^are  the  feet, *  Aid  them  well , 
scrape  oft*  the  hair.  Some  pers'  is  roll  them  ia  \ot  ashes ;  I  prefer 
the  boiling  water,  as  the  oth'  r  plan  freqLe/  /  scorches  the  skin 
an  1  souse  should  be  very  w>  *«e.  Scrape  the -a,  removing  tLs  horny 
part;  when  all  are  well  '.leaned,  lay  ther  to  soak  a  day  and  night 
Put  them  to  boil  in  pie'  ty  of  cold  wa>  ;  skim  the  pot  well ;  sim- 
mer them  gently.  rV hen  the  bone'  an  be  removed  easilv  take 
them  up,  and  as  so*  a  as  they  can  "  .  handled,  pick  ihc  meat  fmnc 
the  l>ones;  seaso*  the  moss  hi£ry  with  »v,  .-'ppcr,  and  vinegar 


34  MRi.    niLL'K    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

pack  it  in  pans,  and  lay  over  each  a  clean  cloth  dipped  in  vinegar  j 
dip  the  cloth  in  vinegar  every  day,  and  it  may  be  kept  for  some 
time  in  that  way,  or  it  may  be  packed  in  jars  and  covered  with 
flal  f  vinegar  and  water. 

The  feet  are  excellent  split  in  two,  put  in  a  jar,  ard  covered 
wi  h  half  vinegar  and  half  the  broth  they  were  boiled  in,  putting 
•  .11  le  salt  in  the  broth.  Never  use  salt  about  the  souse,  tic  til  it 
is  done  and  removed  fi  )m  the  pot;  the  broth  will  make  good 
jelly  ;  salt  would  spoil  it  for  that  purpose.  The  feet  should  be 
fried  in  boiling  lard,  first  rolling  them  in  fine  corn-meal,  bread  cr 
cracker  crumbs,  or  dip  them  in  thin  batter.  They  may  be  put 
in  spiced  vinegar  and  eaten  cold. 


10*2.  Hog's  Head  Cheese. — Split  the  head  apart — the  upper  por- 
tion only  is  used ;  scrape  it  well.  The  brains  must  first  be  re- 
moved ;  cut  off  the  nostrils  and  throw  them  away  ;  cut  off  the  ears ; 
clean  and  scrape  them  well ;  they  are  to  be  boiled  with  the  head, 
the  tongue  and  feet.  When  entirely  done,  take  them  from  the 
broth ;  remove  all  bones ;  grind  or  chop  the  meat,  tongue,  and 
ears  together.  Pick  the  meat  from  the  feet  carefully ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  mace,  allspice,  and  a  few  cloves  to  taste ;  place 
a  cloth  in  the  bottom  of  a  pan,  large  enough  to  cover  the  cheese ; 
pack  the  meat  in ;  cover  it  well  with  the  cloth ;  lay  a  tin  plate 
on  top,  and  a  weight  upon  that.  When  cold,  remove  the  cheese 
to  a  plate;  garnish  with  lemon  and  green  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Eat  for  supper  or  luncheon,  with  French  mustard  or  pickles 
If  this  is  to  be  kept  long,  put  it  in  spiced  vinegar.  The  vii  egai 
thould  not  be  strong,  and  should  be  changed  occasionally. 


103  Calf's  Head  Cheese. — After  cleaning  the  head  well, 
take  out  the  eyes;  cut  ofl  the  nose.  Boil  all  that  remains  in 
plenty  of  water,  until  the  bones  will  come  out  easily.  Two 
heels  boiled  with  it  will  be  an  improvement.  Chop  the  meat 
fine;  season  highly  with  any  kind  of  spices  liked,  red  and  black 
pepper;  salt  to  taste.     Put  a  cloth  in  the  bottom  of  acoiander 


MEATS.  05 

pack  in  the  moat;  co\ er  well  with  the  c  oth;  press  Aith  a  htary 
weight      Eat  cold. 


104.  Stewing  Meat. — This  process  does  not  differ  materia1!? 
from  boiling.  It  L  slow  boiling,  or  simmering  with  very  litllt 
Water.  When  the  'aeat  is  somewhat  old  or  tough,  a  little  vine 
gar  may  be  used.  "  It  acts  by  softening  the  fibres,  and  so  ren 
ders  the  meat  more  tender  and  digestible." 

It  is  an  economical  way  of  cooking,  since  the  liquor  i&  used 
with  the  meat,  and  nothing  of  consequence  is  lost.  The  same 
receipts  which  have  been  giving  for  boiling,  will  answer  for  stew- 
ing, usinjr  much  less  water.  It  is  important  that  every  kitchen 
be  furnisned  with  stew-pans  of  different  sizes.  They  should  be 
lined  vvilh  tl.i  or  porcelain,  and  have  well-fitting  covers.  Always 
use  a  stew-pan  adapted  to  the  size  of  the  artiele  to  be  cooked. 
iefbre  being  placed  upon  the  fire,  put  in  enough  water  to  pre- 
nt  the  tin  from  melting;  carelessness  upon  this  point  'vill 
...use  the  tin  to  melt;  or,  if  the  stew-pan  is  lined  with  porcelain, 
t  will  crack  if  put  upon  the  fire  without  water.  As  soon  as 
there  is  no  further  use  for  the  stew-pans,  the  cook  should  .im- 
mediately wash  them  in  hot  soap-suds  until  clear  of  grease ; 
wipe  them  perfectly  dry,  and  rub  over  the  inside  dry  meal  bran. 
Managed  in  this  way,  they  will  last  a  long  time. 


105.  J2run8V)ick  Stew. — Three  gallons  of  water,  two  grown 
thickens  cut  up,  one  pound  of  fat  bacon  cut  up  fine.  Cook  the 
chickens  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bones  ;  return  the  meat  to  I  Uo 
|tot ;  add  one  half-gallon  of  Irish  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed, 
three  tumblers  of  green  corn,  cut  off  the  cob,  one  pint  of  green 
butter  beans,  one  quart  of  tomatoes  skinned,  a  good  sized  loaf  of 
bread ;  Beason  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  The  bread  must  r.ot 
be  pat  in  until  the  stew  is  nearly  done.  Stir  until  done,  begin 
when  nearly  done.     Squirrels  may  be  used  instead    £  chickens. 


105£.  Gipsy  Stew. — Soak  a  tumblerful  of  *Mte  6>1J  pcaa 
IB  hour;  cut  fine  half  a  head  of  cabbage,  a  carrot,  turnip,  tm© 
onions,  parsley  ;  two  cloves  of  garlic,  if  the  flavor  is  liked  ;  tout 
italks  of  celery,  if  convenient ;  spices,  if  liked  ;  pepper  and  salt 
Fry  four  ounces  of  salt  pork  ;  add  to  it  two  pounds  of  fresh  beef, 
inutton,  veal,  or  venison,  and  birds,  all  cut  up  ;  put  all  the  meat 
in  a  pot  or  stew-pan,  and  just  cover  with  water;  let  it  stew  half 
an  hour ;  skim  well,  and  then  add  the  vegetables,  stirring  gently 
until  thoroughly  done  ;  add  boiling  water  to  keep  it  covered,  but 
no  more.  It  will  probably  be  rich  enough  without  butter ;  if 
not,  a  little  may  be  added. 


106.  To  Stew  a  Shin  of  Beef  .—Dr.  Kitchiner's  Way.—  The  Doc 
tor  advises  "  the  mistress  of  the  house"  to  call  this  dish  "  ragout 
Deef;"  this,  says  he,  will  insure  its  being  eaten  with  "  unanimous 
applause,  when  the  homely  appellation  of  'shin  of  beef  stewed/ 
would  give  your  genteel  eater  the  lockjaw."  Whatever  ob- 
jection may  be  urged  against  the  name  of  this  savoury  dish, 
there  can  be  none  to  the  receipt. 

Saw  the  bone  in  one  or  two  pieces  ;  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  and 
just  cover  it  with  water.  When  it  simmers,  begin  the  skirn 
ming,  and  when  the  water  looks  clear,  add  a  bundle  of  sweet 
herbs,  viz.,  parsley,  thyme  and  sweet  marjoram  ;  a  large  onion 
cut  up ;  four  heads  of  celery,  or  less  if  the  flavor  is  not  liked  ;  on« 
dozen  berries  of  black  pepper;  the  same  of  allspice.  Stew  veiy 
gently  until  the  meat  is  tender.  This  will  take  about  thro* 
tours,  unless  the  meat  is  very  young  and  tender.  Take  tin** 
urrots,  peeled  and  sliced  ;  the  same' of  turnips;  a  dozen  small 
ii'ver-»kinned   onions'    boil   them    until    tender.      The   car/'  ts 


MEATS.  67 

ihould  be  put  to  cook  first,  as  thoy  require  twice  as  Kng  to  cook 
as  tne  other  vegetables.  As  soon  as  they  are  done,  take  them 
up  and  drain  them  dry.  Take  up  the  beef  when  tender;  put  it 
upon  the  dish  on  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Thicken  three 
tumblers  of  the  broth  with  three  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
(make  it  into  a  paste  with  a  teacup  of  the  broth),  and  stir  int« 
Khe  gravy  ;  stew  this  five  minutes  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
catsup,  or  Port  wine  if  preferred.  Send  the  gravy  to  the  tabl* 
in  a  sauce-boat.  Lay  the  vegetables  hot  around  the  beef.  A 
leg  of  mutton,  or  loin  of  veal,  is  good  prepared  in  this  way. 
After  the  vegetables  are  taken  up,  return  them  to  the  stew-pan 
until  hot.  They  may  be  served  upon  a  separate  dish,  if  pre- 
ferred. 


107.  Veal  or  Mutton  Stew. — Cut  young,  tender  meat  in  thin 
slices.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  layer  of  raw  Irish  potatoes,  peeled 
and  sliced,  a  little  onion  if  liked,  a  layer  of  meat.  Season 
highly  with  red  and  black  pepper,  salt  to  taste ;  put  ovfr  this, 
slices  of  cold  boiled  ham ;  over  this,  bits  of  butter,  then  another 
layer  of  meat,  seasoning,  etc.,  potatoes  last;  cover  with  water; 
stew  gently  until  done.     Thicken  the  gravy  ;  season  with  catsup. 


108.  Veal  with  Curry  Powder. — Stew  two  pounds  of  veal ;  strew 
over  it  two  medium-sized  onions.     Rub  together  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder,  the  same  of 
flour.    Add  this  to  two  tumblers  of  the  broth.    Put  this  in  a  small 
stew-pan ;  stew  five  minutes,  pour  in  a  tumbler  of  hot  cream 
When  the  meat  has  stewed  slowly  until  tender  take  it  up  in  the  dish 
it  i»  to  be  served  in  ;  send  to  the  table  hot ;  serve  the  gravy  in 
tauce-noat.  Chicken  and  turtle  are  excellent  cooked  in  this  way 
Le%s  curry  powder  may  be  used  where  high  seasoning  is  not  liked. 


100.  Beef  Steak  Stewed,  or  Steamed. — Cut  the  steak  in  pieces  of 
uniform  size,  that  all  may  be  equally  done,  and  rather  thicker  than 
for  frying.    If  the  meat  is  not  very  young  and  tender,  beat  it  slight 


08  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

\y.  In  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan  put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard 
when  this  is  boiling  hot,  lay  in  the  steak,  and  fry  it  a  light  biow  s 
color.  Cut  up  two  onions,  and  fry  at  the  same  time  with  the 
meat.  Season  highly  with  red  and  black  pepper,  salt  to  taste  , 
pour  over  boiling  water  to  cover  the  meat,  and  stew  gently  until 
tender.  An  hour  will  probably  be  required,  but  this  will  depart} 
upon  the  age  of  the  animal,  the  time  it  has  been  kept,  and  the 
weather.  To  make  the  gravy :  Into  a  small  stew-pan  put  a  Urge 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a  table 
spoonful  of  flour;  as  soon  as  this  is  hot,  pour  in  gradually  two 
tumblerfuls  of  the  broth  it  was  stewed  in.  Let  this  stew  until 
the  gravy  is  of  the  proper  consistence ;  season  with  mushroom  or 
walnut  catsup ;  pour  over  the  steak,  and  serve  hot.  This  can  be 
better  prepared  by  stewing  in  a  double  kettle,  putting  the  meat 
in  the  inner  kettle. 


110.  Delmonico  Stew. — Cut  cold  cooked  fresh  meat  of  an) 
kind,  into  small  thin  slices;  put  them  into  a  chafing  dish  or  stew- 
pan,  with  a  little  hot  water.  Season  with  mace,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste;  use  part  Cayenne  pepper.  Should  there  be  any  cold 
gravy  left,  use  this,  and  butter  enough  to  make  the  stew  ricn. 
Put  all  in  the  chafing  dish,  cover  it  and  let  the  meat  simmer 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Cut  up  a  lemon ;  remove  the  seed  ;  add 
this  to  the  stew.  Grate  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  ;  mix 
with  it  two  teaspoonfuls  of  good  English  mustard ;  this  should 
be  put  in  a  small  bowl.  Pour  the  gravy  to  this  slowly,  makii't*  it 
to  a  smooth  paste.  Put  this  over  the  meat ;  remove  it  from  the 
fire,  and  serve  immediately. 

111.  Camp  Stew — Mr.  B.'s  Receipt. — Prepare  one  oi  more 
Sickens,  and  twice  as  many  squirrels,  as  for  frying.  Into  the  )»«<t 
torn  of  a  pot,  or  deep  stew-pan,  lay  slices  of  pickled  pork  ;  r  ba- 
con, cutting  off  the  rind  and  rancid  parts,  if  bacon  is  used.  I  tit 
a  layer  of  chicken,  one  of  Irish  potatoes  peoled  and  sliced,  two 
large  onions  cut  up  fine,  butter-beans,  corn  and  tomatoes ;  r*v 


MB  ATS.  C9 

and  black  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  a  layei  !>f  game,  .hen  of  p>rk. 
Finish  with  a  layer  of  vegetables ;  cover  with  water,  and,  put 
ting  on  a  well-fittir.g  co"er,  set  the  vessel  where  the  mixture  will 
wnimer  gently  and  steadily  four  hours. 


1 1 2.  Mutton  Stew — Mrs.  B.'s  Receipt. — Use  any  scraps  oi 
.it  I  hat  are  not  suitable  for  making  cutlets  or  chops.  Ste\* 
. th  a  little  onion  and  parsley ;  season  highly  with  red  and  black 
^pper.  Boil  two  eggs  hard ;  mash  the  yolks  fine,  or  grate 
them.  Stir  them  to  a  small  tablespoonful  of  butter,  or  enough 
to  make  the  gravy  rich ;  add  this  to  the  gravy,  and  if  thickening 
is  needed,  use  brown  flour. 


113.  Hotch  Potch. — This  is  made  of  any  kind  of  fresh  meat, 
or  game.  To  two  pounds,  add  a  quart  of  green  peas,  a  tumblerful 
each  of  green  corn,  asparagus,  and  young  squashes  cut  fine,  a 
tumblerful  of  grated  carrot ;  tie  together  four  or  five  sprigs  ol 
parsley,  thyme,  and  sweet  basil ;  stew  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
There  should  be  very  little  gravy  to  this  when  done;  should  there 
be  too  much,  leave  the  cover  off  until  it  is  sufficiently  reduced 
add  butter  enough  to  make  the  mass  rich.  Take  the  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs  out  before  serving.  This  is  sometimes  used  us  a 
soup,  adding  more  water. 

114.  Olio. — Take  two  pounds  of  tender,  juicy  beef,  one  of 
veal  or  mutton,  a  whole  duck,  chicken  or  guinea  fowl,  a  half 
pound  of  pickled  pork ;  let  this  soak  an  hour  before  using  it.    Put 

t  in  a  small  pot,  and  add  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  two  or  three 
juioLs  sliced,  Cayenne  and  black  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste;  cover 
with  cold  water ;  stew  gently,  and  skim  as  may  be  necessary,  to 
remove  all  dross.  After  the  meat  has  stewed  two  hours,  or  les9 
time  if  the  meat  is  very  tender,  add  three  or  four  pleasant  acid 
apples  chopped  fine ;  a  pint  of  skinned  tomatoes  cut  up  fine,  and 
into  which  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar  has  been  stirred  ;  two 
medium-sized  squashes  cut  up ;  a  pint  of  shelled  Lima  beans,  tin 


70 

Bame  of  green  corn  grated,  and  Irish  potatoes  sliced  and  cut  thin 
one  or  two  heads  of  celery  ;  stew  until  the  vegetables  are  tender  ' 
stir  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter.     When  "  iont"  laj 
the  meat  and  vegetables  on  a  dish,  the  fowl  upon  that,  and  senrf 
Ot.     Send  the  gravy  in  a  sauce-boat. 

1 15  Pepper-pot. — Clean  four  calf's  feet  and  two  pounds  of 
tripe;  boil  them  tender;  cut  up  the  tripe  in  small  pieces, pick 
the  bones  from  the  feet ;  return  the  tripe  and  meat  to  the  pot, 
pour  over  the  broth  after  skimming  off  the  fat ;  add  two  white 
skinned  onions  sliced,  half  a  dozen  of  Irish  potatoes  peeled  and 
sliced,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  parsley,  thyme,  and  marjoram;  ste*f 
until  the  vegetables  are  tender;  season  highly  with  black  and 
Cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Make  a  rich  gravy  of  part  of 
the  broth,  a  spoonful  of  butter  into  which  has  been  rubbed 
dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  tumblerful  of  hot  cream.  Serve 
hot. 


110.  To  Dress  Cold,  Underdone  Beef . — Cut  it  in  slices  an  inch 
thick;  season  them  well  with  pepper  and  salt;  dredge  with  flour; 
fry  in  hot  lard,  a  light  brown ;  take  them  out  of  the  lard,  and  lay 
the  pieces  in  a  stew-pan;  pour  over  half  a  tumblerful  of  hot 
water.  Rub  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  into  a  tablespoonful  of  butter* 
put  this  into  the  stew-pan.  Stew,  with  the  cover  on,  a  quarter  of 
an  hour;  season  the  gravy  with  any  kind  of  catsup  preferred; 
pour  over  the  meat.     Serve  hot. 


117.  Minced  Veal,  Beef ,  or  Mutton. — Into  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  (heaped)  rub  an  even  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  put  this  into 
a  stew-pan,  place  this  upon  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  the 
butter  browns  a  light  color ;  should  the  butter  burn,  it  will  be  un« 
fit  hr  use.  Cut  an  onion  into  the  butter,  and  poar  in  a  teacup  of 
boiling  water.  Cut  tender  beefsteak,  veal  cutlets,  or  mutton  chops; 
■eason  them  with  pepper  and  s$t,  roll  them  in  flour ;  lay  them 
in  a  stew-pan  and  stew  gently  until  tender.     A  quaiier  of  an  houf 


MEATS.  7) 

will  be  sufficient  to  ook  a  pound  <>f  young,  tender  meat,  if  it  is 
kept  steadily  simmering,  keeping  the  stew-jwin  o(  vered  ;  a  few 
Bprigs  of  parsley  cut  up  fme  and  ad'lcd  with  the  onion  is  mj 
good. 

118.  Ragout  of  a  Breast  of  Veal. — Separate  the  joints  !>f  Um 
ftrisket ;  unless  this  is  done  before  being  cooked,  it  is  difficult  to 
cane;  saw  through  the  large  bone,  but  not  through  the  meat; 
saw  ofl  the  sharp  ends  of  the  ribs,  trim  the  piece  neatly  ;  bake  it 
half  done;  take  all  the  trimmings  and  a  little  of  the  suet;  boil 
these,  and  while  the  meat  is  baking  make  a  quart  of  rich  gravy. 
Put  the  meat,  with  any  gravy  that  may  be  in  the  pan,  into  a 
stew-pan  that  will  hold  it  easily  ;  pour  over  the  quart  of  gravy 
made  of  the  trimmings.  Season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  pow- 
der stirred  into  an  even  tablespoonfuJ  of  flour;  season  with  salt; 
8te»v  until  tender.  If  the  stew  is  not  rich  enough,  add  butter,  and 
*hould  the  gravy  stew  down  too  much,  add  sufficient  boiling  water 
jn  make  the  gravy. 


119.  Stewed  Sweetbread  (  Vea-). — ilemove  the  veins  and  skin, 
wash  them  well  and  lay  in  warm  water.  Half  an  hour  before 
they  are  served,  parboil  them  five  or  six  minutes ;  take  them  up 
and  drop  them  in  cold  water,  until  you  can  pour  into  a  fire-proof 
dish  a  tumblerful  of  the  broth  they  were  parboiled  in.  Roll  the 
sweetbreads  in  flour ;  season  highly  with  red  and  black  pepper, 
and  salt  to  taste;  put  them  in  the  fire-proof  dish,  lay  over  bits  o( 
butter.  Set  the  dish  in  the  stove  oven  and  stew  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.     Oysters  added  to  the  sweetbreads  is  an  improvement. 


120.  T:  Stew  Calf's  Head. — Manage  as  for  boiling,  using  let* 
Water ;  season  highly  with  any  good  catsup.  It  may  be  :  jrried 
by  adding  curry  powder  to  the  flour  used  in  thickening  the  gravjr. 
Kid's  head  is  excellent  stewed. 


121.   To  Stew  Pig's  Head,  Harslet,  and  Feet.SvWt  th#    rp 


?2  MRS      HILL  8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

pe/  part  of  the  head  from  the  jowl.  Take  out  the  brains  ;  cut 
on*  the  tars;  clean  all  nicely  and  put  to  stew,  seasoning  wilt1 
pepper,  salt,  a  dozen  sage  leaves,  and  two  onions  cut  up  fine. 
Wh'.'i  tender,  serve  the  jowl  in  a  dish;  garnish  with  green  pars- 
of,  and  have  a  rich  butter  and  parsLy  gravy  to  serve  with  it. 
lake  the  upper  part  of  the  head,  remove  all  the  bone3,  and  i  ul 
,ta  meat  m  small  pieces;  split  the  feet  in  half  and  take  out  the 
large  bones ;  cut  the  harslet  in  small  pieces.  Strain  the  broth, 
pour  a  pint  into  a  stew-pan ;  add  a  tabiespoonful  of  butter  with  a 
dessert-  spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  into  it ;  set  the  stew-pan  upon  the 
stove ;  mince  a  tabiespoonful  of  parsley  fine  and  add  with  the 
butter.  When  the  butter  melts,  return  the  meat  to  the  stew-pan 
or  pot  and  let  it  gently  simmer  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Wash  the 
brains  while  the  meat  is  simmering ;  mash  them  with  the  baek  oi 
a  spoon  and  make  to  them,  with  two  eggs,  milk,  and  flour,  salt  to 
taste,  a  thin  batter  ;  fry  this  as  a  pancake,  cut  in  diamond  shapes ; 
lay  over  the  stew  with  sprigs  of  green  parsley. 


122.  To  Stew  Fresh  Pork  with  Potatoes. — Cut  the  spare-rib 
into  chops,  or  separate  the  chine  bone ;  put  them  into  a  small 
covered  pot  or  deep  stew-pan;  just  cover  them  with  warm  water; 
simmer  gently  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  sage  if  liked. 
When  tender,  add,  for  a  large  spare-rib,  a  tabiespoonful  of  butter 
with  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flour  for  thickening.  Slice  sweet  pota- 
toes and  put  to  stew  when  the  meat  is  not  quite  half  done ;  unless 
the  meat  is  old,  half  an  hour  will  cook  the  stew,  twenty  minutes 
the  potatoes  ;  put  a  layer  of  pork,  then  one  of  potatoes.  Pork  is 
Tery  good  stewed  with  green  peas.  Stewed  apples  make  a  good 
lAuoe  for  this  dish. 


123.  To  Make  Hash. — Meats  that  nave  been  once  done,  only 
require  to  be  warmed  over.  To  cook  them  again  renders  them 
tough  and  insipid.  Cut  up  the  vegetables  to  be  used  for  season- 
ing— onions,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  etc.,  as  may  be  preferred.  Put 
the  butter,  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  vegetables  (or  spices  if  prefer 


MEATfl.  *?3 

red  as  seasoning)  into  the  stew-pan  with  ail  the  cold  gravy  that 
may  have  been  saved ;  essence  of  ham  answers  a  good  purpose; 
•  fe<v  inches  of  portable  soup  is  very  good  if  thtre  should  not  be 
sufficiency  of  gravy  ;  a  teacup  of  boiling  water  for  a  pound  of 
meat ;  very  little  water  should  be  used.  Cover  the  stew-par.  au<J 
let  this  stew  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  shaking  the  stew  par 
&!N[uentJv.  Have  the  meat  minced  fine,  removing  all  bones  and 
gristle,  add  to  the  gravy,  stirring  it  in  well.  Let  it  remain  un- 
til the  meat  is  thoroughly  hot,  and  serve.  Use  catsup  upon  the 
plate  for  extempore  dressing.  Very  little  cooking  is  necessary 
and  very  little  gravy.  When  there  is  stuffing,  a  small  quantity 
may  be  used. 


124.  Irish  Potato  Hash. — This  is  excellent  made  of  equal 
quantities  of  Irish  potatoes  peeled,  sliced  thin,  and  put  to  stew  in 
very  little  water ;  when  they  are  half  done,  add  as  much  cold 
pickled  beef,  minced  very  fine,  or  cold  boiled  salt  mackerel  (a 
little  onion  and  parsley  may  be  put  in  with  the  Irish  potatoes  if 
liked) ;  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Serve  hot.  This  should  be  just  moist.  Mash  the  potatoes  and 
mix  them  well  with  the  meat. 


125.  Mrs.  H?s  Receipt  for  Beef  Hash. — Two  tumblers  of  hot 
water,  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  cheese,  the  same  of  fine  bread  crumbs;  season  highly  with 
Cayenne  pepper;  add  three  tumblers  of  beef  minced.  Serve  <»s 
aoon  as  hot.     Stir  all  well  together. 

A  very  accomplished  housekeeper  furnishes  me  with  several  re 
oeipts  by  which  dishes,  savoury  and  economical,  may  be  pr» 
paied. 


126.  Mrs.  JSs  Receipt  for  Scotch  Hash. — Mince  corned   Deef 
as  fine  as  possible,  also  a  good   portion  of  onion  chopped  fine 
aeason  highly  with  Cayenne  pepper ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
add  boiling  water,  not  quite  enough  to  cover  the  meat;  let  this  be- 

4 


74  MR8.    HILL'S    NEW    COOK    BOO*. 

come  rery  ho:t     Peat  two  eggs  well  in  a  common  sizei  pie  pah 
«tir  the  meat  tc  tne  eggs  and  put  it  in  the  stove-oven  untJ  a  ligkt 
brown  crust  is  formed.     A  few  minutes  will  form  the  crust,  if  the 
a  ven   is  as  hot  as  it  should  be.     Serve  immediately.     A  good 
ireakfast  dish. 


1 27.  Chicken  Oyster. — Mrs.  J. — Pull  a  cold  fowl  of  any  kind 
into  small  pieces.  Mix  equal  portions  of  sweet  milk  and  water; 
a  Lablespoonful  of  butter  with  a  teaspoonful  heaped  with  flour 
stirred  into  it;  any  gravy  that  may  remain,  and  a  little  stuffing; 
let  this  stew  gently  ten  minutes.  Add  enough  of  vinegar  to  give 
a  pleasant,  acid  taste,  and  two  or  three  crackers  or  hard  biscuit 
broken  into  small  pieces.  Put  in  the  fowl,  and  as  soon  as  this  is 
hot,  serve.  Veal,  lamb,  or  venison,  are  good  prepared  in  this 
way. 

128.  Krohile. — Mince  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  add  cold  gravy  ; 
break  in  very  small  pieces,  or  grate  as  much  cracker  as  meat ; 
three  eggs  beaten  together,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  stir  all  wed 
to  the  meat ;  pour  over  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  mixture — 
add  a  little  onion,  if  liked ;  sprinkle  over  the  top  grated  crack- 
er ;  bake  just  long  enough  to  brown — a  few  minutes  will  be  suf- 
ficient. 

129.  Poultry  or  Birds  Stevjed  with  Onions. — Prepare  the  fowli 
as  for  boiling ;  rub  over  well  with  flour,  and  shake  off  any  th&l 
]qs  n^t  adhere.  Put  three  tumblers  of  water  into  a  stew-pan,  let 
it  warm ;  lay  in  the  poultry ;  cover  the  vessel ;  let  it  simmer 
gently.  Skim  off  all  impurities  ;  cut  up  two  tumblerfuls  of  white 
onion  in  ccld  water;  let  it  soak  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  add  it 
to  the  stew,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Turn  the  fowls  ovei 
occasionally ;  avoid  piercing  them  with  a  fork  or  sharp  instru 


MEATS.  75 

m«nt;  tnese  holes  let  out  the  juices  and  look  badly.  "Wild  fowl* 
require  to  be  cooked  less  than  domestic ;  much  cooking  destroys 
the  "  game  taste."  Many  persons  prefer  the  flesh  should  be  ooa- 
v  ierablv  underdone. 

130    Chicken  and  Oysters. — Truss  a  young  fowl  as  for  boiling; 
*  lean  the  inside  well,  removing  all  clotted  blood.     Chop  as  many 
aysteis  fine  as  will  fill  it;  close  the  apron  well  with  a  few  stitcbea. 
Stew  in  a  double  kettle,  or  put  it   in   an   unglazed  jar ;  cover  it 
well,  and,  putting  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
keep  it  boiling  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  until  ten- 
der.    Serve   with  a  sauce  made  of  the  gravy 
from  the  stew,  a  little  of  the  oyster  liquor,  but 
ter  and  flour  to  make  it  rich   enough  and  of 
proper  consistence. 
The  plate  represents  the  fowl  with  the  skew 
rrs  still  inserted ;   remove  them  before  sending  to  the  table. 


131.  Stewed  Turkey — A  French  Receipt. — Keep  a  large  fat  tui 
key  several  days  after  being  killed.  When  ripe  for  cooking,  stuff 
it;  upon  the  bottom  of  a  large  stew-pan  that  will  hold  the  fowl 
without  cramping  it,  put  a  trivet  to  elevate  it  a  few  inches.  Rub 
over  the  turkey  a  coat  of  flour,  shake  off  all  that  does  not  stick ; 
lay  it  upon  the  trivet;  cover  over  the  breast  with  slices  of  pickled 
pork  or  bacon.  Cut  up  two  or  three  calf's  feet,  lay  these  around 
ic.  Season  highly  with  pepper,  chopped  onions,  mace  or  nutmeg, 
i  few  cloves,  or  a  stick  of  cinnamon  broKen  up.  Mix  together  & 
pint,  of  cold  water,  the  same  of  Sherry  wine ;  pour  to  the  tur- 
key ;  cot er  well  with  a  well-fitting  cover;  keep  a  wet  towel  ox 
cloth  over  and  around  the  edges  of  the  cover  ;  wet  it  as  often  as  if 
required  tc  keep  it  from  becoming  dry.  Stew  slowly  five  htxr» ; 
turn  the  turkey  when  half  done.  For  sauce,  strain  thf  gravy  ;  aend 
H  to  the  table  in  a  sauce-boat. 


132.    To  Fricassee   Chicken*  (  White)  —Carve  into  ]  tints  as  fit 


76  MRS. 

fryii<g,  and  if  the  fowl  is  large,  bone  it.  Kill  the  fowl  serene 
hours  before  cooking ;  and  aftev  cutting  it  up,  wash  :*  well  in  te- 
pid water,  and  pour  over  it  boiling  swe^t  milk,  or  milk  and  water 
mixed  in  equal  proportions;  let  it  soak  in  this  until  it  is  time  u 
put  it  to  stew.  Half  an  hour  before  dinner,  if  the  fowl  is  voting 
and  tender,  put  it  to  stew  in  water  enough  to  just  cover  it.  Let 
It  stew  gently,  keeping  the  pot  covered ;  skim  off  all  scum  as  it 
rises;  when  half  done,  season  with  salt  and  white  pepper.  Add 
dumplings  irade  in  tkis  way :  Mash  a  tumblerful  of  Irish  pota 
toes  (more  if  liked) ;  moisten  it  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  milk 
or  water ;  rub  it  through  a  sieve  or  colander.  It  must  be  entire- 
ly free  from  lumps.  Use  neither  lard  nor  water,  but  work  in  a 
tumbler  even  full  of  flour,  or  until  a  soft  dough  is  formed ;  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Flour  the  board  well  and  roll  this  half  an  inch 
thick  ;  cut  in  strips  and  stew  with  the  chicken  ten  minutes ;  at  the 
same  time  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour  rubbed  into  it.  Serve  the  stew  in  a  covered  dish,  and 
stir  to  the  gravy  half  a  tumbler  of  hot  cream ;  send  the  gravy  to 
the  table  in  a  sauce-boat.  Rice,  potatoes,  and  tomatoes  are  all 
good  accompaniments.  For  variety,  drop-dumplings  may  be 
used.  Scald  a  pint  of  milk  ;  make  a  paste  by  stirring  sufficient 
cold  milk  to  a  tumblerful  of  sifted  flour.  When  the  pint  of  milk 
boils,  stir  in  the  paste,  stirring  constantly  until  bubbles  begin  to 
form  over  the  top ;  pour  it  into  a  bowl  and  let  it  remain  undis 
turbed  until  old.  Beat  two  eggs  well ;  beat  these  to  the  batter  and 
tell  more  flour  until  a  stiff  batter  is  made ;  salt  to  taste ;  drop,  by 
lpoonfuls,  into  the  stew ;  eight  or  ten  minutes  will  cook  them  sui 
ficiently.     Mace  is  sometimes  used  for  seasoning  this  dish. 


132J.  To  Make  a  French  Pilau. — Boil  a  pair  of  fowls ;  when 
done  take  them  out,  and  put  your  rice  in  the  same  water,  first 
taking  out  some  of  Jho  water.     When  the  rice  is  don<    butter  it 


MKAT8. 


n 


well,  cover  the  bottom  of  your  dish  with  half  of  it ,  then  \  a* 
the  fowls  on  it,  and  add  the  remainder  Df  th^  liquor  ;  cover  the 
fowls  with  the  other  half  of  the  rice,  make  it  smooth,  an  J  spread 
over  it  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  a  modtraU 
ven. 


133.  To  Ragout  Chicken. — Prepare  the  fowl  as  for  brninng ; 
lay  'in  a  shallow  oven,  or  stove-pan  ;  pour  to  it  a  teacup  of  warn 
water;  cover  with  an  oven  lid  or  tin  cover,  closely.  When 
thoroughly  hot, begin  to  baste  it  with  butter.  Let  it  stew  gently 
half  an  hour,  basting  frequently.  Put  a  little  fire  upon  the  lid, 
and  brown  it  a  few  minutes  before  serving.  Toast  enough  light 
bread  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish ;  dip  each  piece  in  hot 
milk,  or  water.  Serve  the  chicken  upon  this;  add  a  tablespoon- 
mi  of  butter,  into  which  has  been  stirred  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
to  the  gravy.  Let  this  stew  a  few  minutes;  pour  over  the 
chicken.  Serve  immediately,  or  the  toast  will  become  sodden. 
Fowls  are  excellent  cooked  in  this  way  with  onions  and  tomatoes, 
or  tomatoes  alone,  peeled  and  cut  fine,  omitting  the  toast.  Sea 
son  with  salt  and  butter. 


134.  Rice  Pilau. — Carve  the  fowl  into  joints,  as  for  frying, 
put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  few  slices  of  pickled  pork,  or  fresh 
pig  cut  in  thin  slices.  Season  highly  with  red  and  black  pepper; 
Bait  to  taste.  Cover  the  fowl  with  water.  Let  it  stew  gently  ; 
skim  until  the  water  looks  clear.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  ric! 
washed  and  soaited.  Stir  this  slowly  to  the  stew.  Fifteen  in  in 
ntes  will  complete  the  cooking  after  the  rice  is  added.  When 
the  rice  is  nearly  done,  should  there  be  too  much  gravy,  leave  efT 
the  cover  until  it  is  sufficiently  reduced.  This  dish  should  onl} 
!l»e  moist      No  gravy  is  required;  make  it  rich  with  buuer. 

The  fowl,  if  a  full-gr^wn  one,  is  sometimes  left  whole.  Die  ric* 
IB  first   put   into   the  dish,  and  the  chicken  laid  upon  tb»    top 


}8  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

Tongues  i,  both  beef  and  hog,  are  good  used  in  this  way  be  fore  bein| 
amoked.     Birds  are  as  good  in  pillau  a*  chicken 


135.   Tomato     Pilau. — Cut    up    the    fowl;    fry  it  in  a  lar*e 
u.lesnoonful  of  lard;  fry  with  it  an  onion.     Peel  a  pint  of  to 
tai  jes,  cut  them  up  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  tea 
poonfui  of  sugar.     When  the  onion  and  chicken  are  of  a  light 
brown  color,  take  them  up  and  put  them  into  a  s  a  w-pan ;  add  the 
tomatoes,  and  pour  over  boiling  water  to  cover  the  fowl.     Have 
ready  a  pint  of  rice,  well  washed.     Stir  this  to  the  chicken,  mix- 
ing all  thoroughly ;  simmer  gently  until  tender.      Add  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter.     This  should  not  have  gravy.      Green 
corn  may  be  grated  and  used. 


136.  Sausage  Pilau. — This  is  made  as  the  rice  pillau,  using 
sausages  that  have  been  stuffed,  but  not  smoked.  The  smoke 
taste  is  imparted  to  the  rice.  Parboil  liver  and  kidneys,  and  use 
them  for  pillau.  They,  as  also  the  sausages,  should  be  cut  in 
small  pieces. 

137.  To  Stew  Birds. — Take  pigeons,  partridges,  or  any  large 
nirds ;  truss  them  as  for  baking ;  dredge  them  well  with  flour. 
Stuff  with  bread,  cut  an  inch  thick,  and  well  buttered  ;  dip  the 
bread  in  wine,  and,  breaking  it  in  small  pieces,  put  a  little  ui  each 
bird,  allowing  room  for  it  to  swell.     Lay  them  in  a  deep  earthen 
dish,  breast-side  down;  cover  them  with  slices  of  cold  ham,  or  ba- 
cor.  cut  very  thin ;  pour  in  water  enough  to  cover  them.     Put  the 
dish  in  an  oven  or  stove,  and  stew  gently,  basting  frequently 
I'se  a  lid  or  cover;  when  nearly  done,  remove  the  bacon ,  turn  th 
birds  ,  put  a  little  fire  upon  the  lid  and  let  them  brown  slightly 
~.r,  if  in  the  stove,  remove  the  cover.     Serve  upon  dry  toast.    If 
they  uie  young,  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  will  be  tim 
enough  to  cook  them.    Use  very  little  seasoning     Nothing  should 
be  permitted  to  overcome^the  fine" game- taste"  so  nr  j  *h  admired 
by  lovers  of  good  eating. 


MKAF8. 


79 


138.  To  S<  mi  Slew  Birds. — Prepare  them  as  for  broil  ng- 
heat  th3  gudiron,  and  lay  the  birds  flat  upon  it,  the  inside  down 
first  When  half  done,  and  of  a  good  brown  co'or  (but  they  must 
not  be  scorched),  take  them  from  the  gridiron,  and  lay  in  a  stew 
pan;  pour  o\cr  a  tumbler  of  hot  water;  season  with  pcpp*  i  siri 
»alt.  Rub  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  into  a  tablespoon  fill  of  but 
ter  ;  put  this  in  slices  over  the  birds.  Cover  the  dish,  ai.d  set  ii 
in  the  stove.     When  tender,  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


139.  Beef  Tongue  and  Mushrooms. — Soak  a  pickled  tongue ; 
lard  it  across.  Season  highly  with  pepper,  salt,  and  spices ; 
onion  and  parsley  cut  up  fine.  Lay  it  in  a  stew-pan, cover  with 
water,  and  put  over  it  slices  of  bacon  or  pork.  Stew  gently  un- 
til tender.  Fry  a  pint  of  button  mushrooms  in  butter  (be  par- 
ticular to  prevent  the  butter  from  burning).  Take  the  tongue 
up,  and  put  the  mushrooms  in  the  stew-pan,  and  stew  five  or  six 
minutes ;  pour  over  the  tongue.     Serve  hot. 


To  carve  :  Cut  across  in  the  line  a  b.     The  best  slices  axe  ii 
the  middle.     At  the  tip  end,  the  meat  is  dry. 


140.   Salmi.  — Wild  duck  is  excellent  prepare*. 

£L  this  way  :  Cut  up  the  fowl  and  remove  the  large  bones.  Put 
ir.tr  a  stew-pan,  for  each  fowl  of  the  size  of  a  common  dick,  a 
iablespoonfU  of  mustard,  mixed  to  a  paste  with  vinegar.  S-.a 
•on  highly  with  red  and  black  pepper  ;  add  a  piece  of  butter  as 
largo  as  a  large  heir's  egg.     Put  this  on  the  lire  *,  stir  ii  well,  and 


00 


MRS.    OII.L  e    NEW    COOK    BOOK, 


a*  soon  as  it  melts,  stir  in  a  half  t ambler  of  Sherry  or  Mattari 
wine— or  catsup  if  preferred.  If  the  meat  is  tender,  serve  ai 
soon  as  hot.  Should  it  be  tough,  make  more  gravy  UA\pg  a 
tie  hot  water,  and  stew  until  tender. 


tit 


141.  Roasting  Meat. — This  style  of  dressing  meat  h  less  pr  04 
\w*»— — — ■    tised  in   the   common   every -day  booking   than   it 
( f  should  be.     It  is  certainly  of  all  others  the  mosl 

elegant.  To  even  approximate  perfection  in  the 
art,  practice  is  absolutely  necessary.  Although 
there  are  a  variety  of  contrivances  for  roasting,  very 
many  families  are  unprovided  with  any  kind  of  ap- 
paratus for  conducting  the  business.  A  very  cheap 
and  simple  arrangement,  and  which  will  answer  the 
purpose  as  well  as  more  costly  and  complicated 
machinery,  is  to  roast  by  the  string.  Procure  a 
piece  of  iron  or  steel  eighteen  inches  long,  with  a 
hinge  in  the  middle,  to  fold  it  out  of  the  way  when 
not  in  use.  It  should  be  strong  enough  to  meet  r-ny 
demands  made  upon  it ;  at  one  end  there  should  be 
a  plate  of  iron  three  inches  long  and  two  wide,  with 
screws  inserted  to  fasten  it  to  the  mantel-piece.  This 
should  be  done  securely.  At  the  other  end  a  twirl- 
ing hook,  or  common  ring  and  hook ;  take  a  twine 
or  twisted  woollen  string  long  enough  to  bring  the 
articles  to  be  cooked  before  the  full  influence  of  the  fire.  A  hook 
should  be  securely  fastened  to  each  end  of  this  string ;  catch  one 
hook  to  the  twirling  hook,  the  other  insert  in  the  meat.  Run  I 
skewer  through  the  feet  of  poultry  and  catch  one  hook  to  tltt 
skewer.  If  the  roast  is  a  piece  of  beef,  veal,  etc.,  when  it  is  nali 
done  turn  it.  If  it  be  necessary  to  expose  one  part  to  the  fire  inori 
than  the  rest,  prop  it  with  a  paddle  or  board,  resting  one  end  )fthe 
paddle  against;  a  smoothing  iron  (or  a  brick  will  answer)  placed 
directly  behind  the  roast,  and  at  just  sufficient  distance  to  rest  the 
broad  pai  t  «jf  the  paddle  against  the  roast.    A  sharp  stick  must  no 


MKAT8.  8* 

be  used,  as  the  least  puncture  wU  let  out  tl  ^  juices.  Tliis  plan  i« 
Cor  a  permanent  arrangement.  For  temporary  use,  a  vonjcn  pog 
driven  over  the  fire-place  will  answer.  (I  shall  be  gla.l  to  see  the 
roaster  substituted  for  that  most  popular  of  all  kitchen  u  tonsils,  ihc 
Vying-pan.)  A  tin  screen  will  greatly  increase  the  heat,  and  thus 
ave  fuel.  It  should  be  so  placed  as  to  guard  the  roast  from  cur- 
ler.ts  of  air.  The  most  convenient  pattern  I  know  is  one  made  of 
lii  three  feet  wide,  one  and  a  half  feet  deep,  with  a  shelf  in  it.  it 
may  be  put  upon  rollers.  This  will  also  answer  for  a  plate- 
warrner. 

General  Directions  for  Managing  a  Roast. — The  meat  after 
being  killed  should  be  kept  until  tender.  It  is  the  practice  of 
many  cooks  to  use  meat  and  fowls  immediately  after  being  killed, 
and  parboil  the  article  to  make  it  tender.  This  extracts  the  juices, 
makes  the  meat  insipid,  and  altogether  fails  to  accomplish  the  object 
intended.  The  fire  must  be  proportioned  to  the  size  of  the  thing 
to  be  roasted.  "The  fire  that  will  roast  the  noble  sirloin,  will 
parch  up  a  lighter  joint."  It  should  extend  several  inches  at  each 
end  longer  than  the  roast,  or  the  ends  will  not  be  done.  The 
thickest  end  of  the  meat  must  be  most  exposed  to  the  fire;  when 
a  reflector  or  tin  roaster  is  used,  slant  it  so  as  to  throw  the  thick 
est  part  nearest  the  fire.  The  spit  should  be  kept  bright.  Be 
careful,  when  using  it,  never  to  run  it  through  the  nicest  parts  of 
the  joint;  every  hole  made  by  the  spit  is  "a  tap  to  let  the  juices 
out."  It  must  be  well  balanced,  so  as  to  hang  evenly ;  when  as- 
sistance is  needed  to  accomplish  this,  use  leaden  weights.  This 
is  important,  for  unless  the  mo  ion  is  regular,  the  parts  will  not 
oe  equally  exposed.  The  roast  must  not  be  put  at  first  too  close 
jo  the  fire,  never  nearer  than  eighteen  inuies;  if  a  large  joint,  let 
it  heat  gradually.  Birds  or  small  roasts  may  be  put  nearer,  from 
twelve  to  fifteen  inches.  Should  the  meat  scorch  when  first  ex- 
posed, the  heat  could  not  penetrate ;  near  the  bone  the  meal 
would  remain  underdone,  and,  besides,  would  acquire  a  disagree- 
able taste,  and  lose  the  light,  rich,  brown  cc  lor  which  a  roaat 
ihojld  always  have. 
4* 


82  MRS.    IIILL*S    KEW    COOK    BOOK. 

Haste  frequently,  and  begin  as  soon  as  the  meat  is  warm ' 
use  sweet  lard  for  most  articles.  Dr.  Kitchiner  says,  aotl* 
ing  bastes  roast  pig  so  well,  or  makes  it  so  crisp,  as  good 
fresh  sweet  oil.  Good  butter  may  be  used,  particularly  for  birds 
and  game,  and  gives  a  more  delicate  flavor  to  pig  than  lard. 
Press  the  lard  or  butter  into  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon ;  baste 
with  this  at  first,  and  then  with  the  drippings.  Put  a  pan  under 
ihe  roast  to  cateh  the  gravy  and  pour  into  it  a  tumbler  of  hot 
water,  slightly  salted,  for  a  large  joint ;  less  water  for  a  small  one 
or  for  game.  Take  up  the  diippings  occasionally,  leaving  only  a 
litt'e  in  the  pan  ;  managed  in  this  way,  it  will  not  be  so  strong  or 
oily  as  when  left  until  the  roast  is  done ;  it  is  best  to  cover  the 
fat  with  a  well-greased  sheet  of  foolscap  paper  or  a  thin  sheet  oi 
dough  made  of  any  kind  of  dark  flour  and  water.  The  latter  is 
only  used  in  a  roaster  or  refleetor,  and  may  cover  the  whole  joint. 
When  roasting  by  the  string,  use  the  paper ;  when  the  meat  is  fully 
half  done,  remove  the  paper  or  dough.  Stir  up  the  fire ;  baste 
the  meat ;  dredge  well  with  flour,  and  let  it  brown  a  rich  color. 
All  the  sweeping  necessary  must  be  done  before  the  roast  is  put 
lown.  Slow  roasting  is  all-important.  When  the  smoke  draws 
towards  the  fire,  and  the  dripping  of  the  clear  gravy  begins,  it  is 
a  sure  sign  that  the  roast  is  nearly  done. 

"A  diligent  attention  to  time ;  the  distance  of  the  meat  from, 
and  the  judicious  management  of,  the  fire,  and  frequent  bastings, 
are  the  principal  rules  to  be  observed." 


142.  M.  Soger's  Time-Table  for  Roasting. — Ten  pounds  ol 
l*cf  eighteen  inches  from  the  fire,  two  to  two  and  a  half  hours. 

Six  pounds  of  beef  fourteen  inches  from  the  fire,  one  hour  and 
I  half. 

Eight  pounds  of  beef,  eighteen  inches  from  the  fire  stuffed,  twe 
lours. 

Eight  pounds  ->f  Beef,  eighteen  inches  from  the  fire  wi!hou* 
stuffing,  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Four  pounds  of  chump-loin  or  k.dneys,  one  hour  and  a  quarter 


MEATS.  81 

Six  pounds  of  breast,  fourteen  inches  fiom  the  fiie,  one  hour. 

Ca'f's  heart  stuffed  and  tied  in  paper,  three  quarters  of  an  hour 

Eight  pounds,  lug  of  mutton,  eighteen  inches  from  the  fire,  on« 
h  >ur  and  a  half.     The  same  fcr  a  saddle  of  mutton. 

Five  pounds  of  leg  of  lamb,  fifteen  inches  from  the  fire,  on« 
lour. 

Six  pounds,  leg  of  pork,  with  the  skin  on,  eighteen  inches  frrnji 
the  fire,  two  hours. 

Lamb  and  pork  should  always  be  well  done. 

A  large  turkey,  weighing  fourteen  pounds,  eighteen  inches  from 
the  fire,  three  hours. 

A  full-grown  goose,  young  and  tender,  an  hour  and  a  half. 

A  grown  tender  chicken  or  duck,  one  hour. 

A  green  goose  (which  is  a  goose  four  months  old),  one  hour. 

Wild  fowls  require  less  time  than  domestic. 

Wild  duck,  from  a  quarter  to  half  an  hour,  according  to  size 
an  I  age. 

Pheasants  half  an  hour. 

Grouse  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Woodcocks,  twenty  minutes. 

Partridges,  half  an  hour. 

Serve  on  toast.     Baste  constantly  ;  have  a  good  fire. 

Ducks  have  frequently  a  fishy  taste ;  this  may  be  corrected  by 
putting  in  the  dripping-pan,  onion,  salt,  and  half  a  tumbler  of  hot 
water ;  baste  with  this  ten  minutes ;  then  remove  this,  and  baste 
with  butter.  It  is  said  putting  a  carrot  inside  of  the  fowl  will  re- 
move the  fishy  taste.  I  have  not  tested  this ;  it  is  worth  a  trial 
After  cleaning  wild  fowls,  hang  them  so  that  they  will  not  touch 
Different  kinds  should  never  be  packed  away  together;  a  good 
plan  is  to  hang  them  in  their  feathers.  They  may  be  kept  in  ccld 
weather  several  days.  1  do  not  agrre,  however,  with  the  French 
writer  who  directs  that  the  fowl  be  "  suspended  by  one  of  its  long 
tail  feathers,  and  falling  from  it  is  the  criterion  of  its  ripeness  and 
readiness  for  the  spit." 

The  wild  flavor  is  injured  by  much  cooking. 


*t  MRS.    HILL  S    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

143.  Roast  Beef. — The  sirloin,  round,  and  ribs  of  the  for* 
quarter,  are  best  for  roasting.  Jjet  the  meat  hang  after  it  i» 
killed  until  tender.  The  length  of  time  it  will  require  for  this, 
will  depend  upon  the  weather,  age  of  the  animal,  etc.  Mai. age 
tho  piece  to  be  cooked,  by  the  rules  given  for  roasting.  Baste  ai 
ioon  as  the  meat  is  hot,  with  good  sweet  lard,  then  with  its  own 
irippbtgs.  If  the  meat  is  not  sufficiently  fat,  insert  very  narrow 
•trips  of  bacon,  with  an  irstrument  called  a  larding-needle,  ab 
over  it,  and  just  under  the  surface.  Half  an  hour  before  the 
meat  is  done,  take  off  any  covering  (if  any  has  been  used) ;  baste 
over  the  surface  quickly  with  fresh  butter;  this,  when  used  just 
before  finishing  the  roast,  raises  a  finer  froth  than  lard.  Dredge 
with  flour  as  the  gravy  begins  to  drop.  Let  the  roasting  con 
tinue,  until  a  rich  brown  color.  The  meat  is  not  sufficiently  done 
so  long  as  the  drippings  look  bloody.  The  juice  of  the  meat 
is  prepared  for  gravy.  Strain  the  gravy.  This  is  sometin  cjs  too 
rich ;  remove  part  of  it  when  this  is  the  case,  and  reserve  it  for 
the  soup-kettle,  or  to  aid  other  gravies.  Serve  upon  a  hot  dish. 
The  roast  will  do  the  cook  no  credit  if  sent  to  the  table  upon  a  cold 
dish,  and  eaten  upon  a  cold  plate,  which  will  convert  the  gravy 
into  a  kind  of  jellied  tallow.  Chou,  mustard,  pickles,  and  any 
acid  jelly,  are  good  accompaniments.     Cranberries  are  also  good. 


144  Roast  Veal. — The  shoulder,  loin,  and  fillet  are  the  best 
pieces  for  roasting.  Keep  it  until  tender.  Veal  does  not  keep 
so  well  as  beef,  and  must  be  wiped  dry  every  day,  and  hung  up. 
Never  lay  it  down  upon  wood ;  this  keeps  it  damp,  and  it  w  u) 
oon  spoil.  Veal  is  the  best  meat  for  soup.  The  loin  is  consid 
«8ied  the  choicest  piece  for  roasting.  Regulate  the  fire  as  for  the 
oeef;  rub  over  with  soft  butter  just  before  putting  it  on  the 
•pit.  It  is  less  juicy  than  beef,  and  requires  more  frequent  Vast* 
ing.  Always  saw  through  the  bone  of  the  loin,  but  not  the  skin, 
for  the  convenience  of  carving.  Protect  the  fat  with  well-greased 
paper;  sprirJtli.  over  a  little  salt,  and  d'edge  with  flour.  Jus* 
before  it  is  done,  remove  the  paper ;  baste  well  with  the  dripping* 


MJSAT8.  81 

or  with  butter;  dredge  with  flour,  and  let  tne  roast  hang  until  of 
a  good  color,  and  the  clear  gravy  begins  to  diip.  Serve  upon  a 
hot  dish.  If  the  gravy  is  not  sufficiently  rich,  add  butter  ;  if  too 
thin  pour  it  into  a  stew-pan,  rub  a  little  flour  to  the  butter,  and  let 
the  grary  stew  three  or  four  minutes.     Serve  in  a  sauce-boat. 


1 15.  Roast  Fillet  of  Veal. — Remove  the  leg  bone  with  I 
■hai-p  Knife;  fill  the  space  with  a  rich  stuffing,  seasoned  highly 
with  pepper,  onion,  and  parsley  ;  salt  to  taste.  Draw  the  sides 
together ;  wrap  the  flap  around  ;  skewer  this  firmly,  and  to  pre- 
vent the  skewers  giving  way,  wrap  the  whole  joint  with  tape,  be- 
ginning at  the  hock,  or  small  end.  It  requires  great  care,  and 
some  skill,  to  prepare  this  for  the  spit,  so  that  when  served  it 
will  present  a  good  appearance.  When  first  put  down,  baste  as 
soon  as  the  meat  is  hot,  with  salt  and  water,  then  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  good  sweet  lard — rancid  lard  must  not  be  used. 
Conduct  the  process  as  for  roast  loin  of  veal.  A  shoulder  of 
veal  may  also  be  stuffed,  and  roasted  in  the  same  way.  Fcr 
gravy,  use  the  drippings  prepared  as  for  the  fillet. 


140.  Roast  Leg  of  Mutton. — Keep  it  hung  as  long  as  it  can 
be  kept  with'  tainting.  Skewer  it,  and  put  it  on  the  spit,  so 
that  it  will )  d.  g  evenly  ;  turn  it  often  ;  baste  as  soon  as  hot,  and 
continue  tb  ■*  very  frequently.  Protect  the  fat  with  paper.  Put 
half  a  tun... '.  r  of  hot  water  into  the  dripping-pan ;  as  the  gravy 
drops  into  .is,  after  using  lard  or  butter,  baste  with  it.  Heat 
gradually ;  the  drippings  strained,  and  slightly  thickened  with 
brown  flcur,  will  make  the  best  gravy.  Currant  jelly,  or  sou.e 
kin  1  of  acid  jelly,  should  accompany  this.  Grated  horseradish  is 
a  to  very  good  served  with  it.  Always  keep  crowned  flour  on 
hand,  in  a  dredging-box.  When  browning  it  be  careful  to  stir 
constantly.     If  it  burns,  it  is  unfit  for  use. 


147.   To  Roast  a  Saddle  of  Mutton. — The  two  loins  without 
•eparating  is  a  saddle,  and  is  carved  in  this  way  :      Cut  ficu    th« 


80  MR8.    niLl/s    NKW    COOK    BOOK. 

tail  to  the  end  on  each  side  of  the  back  bone,  from  a  to  bt  out* 
Muuilig  downward  to  the  edge  c,  ui  til    jt  becomes  too  fat.     Tbl 


slices  should  be  thin,  and  if  too  long  divide  them.  The  fat  will 
be  found  on  the  sides.  The  upper  part  is  generally  lean. 
Give  a  part  of  the  fat  to  each  person. 

It  may  be  roasted  by  the  directions  given  for  roasting.  Pro- 
tect the  fat  with  greased  paper.  The  strings  it  is  tied  on  with 
should  be  greased;  twisted  woollen  is  best.  The  flaps  should  be 
cut  off;  leave  very  little  of  the  tail  and  chump  end.  This  piece 
requires  close  trimming,  which  if  the  butcher  does  not  do,  the 
cook  must.  Serve  with  the  gravy  which  runs  down.  If  you 
wish  to  thicken  the  gravy,  set  a  stew-pan  over  a  slow  fire ;  put 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  fresh  butter  into  it,  and  dredge  in  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  flour ;  stir  this  well  until  it  browns — but  it  must  not  scorch ; 
add  the  gravy  very  slowly,  stirring  it  constantly ;  if  too  rich, 
skim  off  the  grease  as  it  rises.  Let  it  simmer  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  or  until  as  thick  as  cream.  Strain  it  into  the  sauce-b<  at. 
fhe  peel  of  a  lemon  boiled  with  the  gravy,  gives  this  a  fine  fla- 
vor, adding  the  juice  after  it  is  taken  from  the  fire;  or  it  may  be 
flavored  with  wine,  spices,  currant  jelly,  or  ary  kind  of  good 
Catsup,  using  these  in  sufficient  quantities  to  "  delight  the  palate 
without  disordering  the  stomach."  Tomatoes  and  Irish  potatoef 
caay  be  served  with  the  roast. 


148.  Shjulder   of  Mutton. — This  may  be  roasted  as   ,ho  leg 
ard  served  with  onijn  sauoe.     Place  it  or.  the  dish  with  the  skii 


MEATS. 


8T 


tide    drwn,  as  represented  in  the  accompanying   plate,  and,  is 
carving,  take  the  first  cut  from  b  to  c ;    cut  a  few  slices  each 


side,  then  on  each  side  of  the  ridge  of  the  shoulder-blade,  in  the 
direction  of  the  dotted  lines,  c  d.  The  tenderest  part  lies  un- 
drr  the  Made  bone,  and  is  called  the  oyster-cut.  The  underside 
has  many  choice  slices.  The  best  fat  lies  in  the  direction  c. 
When  carved  on  the  outside,  or  skin-side,  slice  from  the  knuckle 
to  the  broad  end,  in  the  direction  /  g.  Roast  must  always  be 
served  upon  a  hot  dish.  A  good  gravy  may  be  made,  by  stirring 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  half  a  tumbler  of  boiling  water  ;  pour 
this  gradually  over  every  part  of  the  meat,  after  it  is  put  in  the 
dish,  mixing  with  the  juice  that  flows.  When  cut,  it  gives  mois- 
ture and  a  pleasant  taste  to  the  meat.  A  separate  tureen  of  gravy- 
should  also  be  served. 


149  Lamb. — The  hind  quarter  is  best  roasted.  When  the 
amb  is  small,  roast  the  fore  and  hind  quarters  together  without 
dividing  them.  Lamb  should  never  be  sent  to  the  table  under, 
done;  it  requires  less  time  in  roasting  than  mutton,  and  freouent 
basting.  Serve  with  mint  sauce.  The  proper  vegetables  to  ac- 
oompany  it  are,  green  peas,  asparagus,  and  Irish  potatoes.  Serve 
th<  gravy  in  a  tureen  ;  if  liked  put  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen  • 
tablespoonful  of  acid  jelly ;  pour  the  gravy  over  hot,  stirring 
briskly  until  the  jelly  is  mixed  with  the  gravy;  or  season  thf 
gravy  with  Port  or  Madeira  wine. 


8fl  MRS.    HILL'S   NSW    COOK    BOOK. 

1 50.  A  Haunch  of  Venison. — This  being  a  dry  meat  requii 


•  great  deal  of  basting.  I  have  been  informed  by  old  huntors  thai 
on  this  account  it  is  best  to  roast  it  very  soon  after  being  killed. 
Piotect  the  fat  with  oiled  paper,  keep  the  string  well  greased  to 
prevent  its  scorching ;  a  twisted  woollen  string  is  less  liable  to 
burn  than  a  cotton  one.  Twelve  pounds  will  require  three  hours 
before  a  solid,  brisk  fire.  Currant  jelly  may  be  served  in  the 
gravy  or  sent  to  table  as  an  accompaniment ;  any  acid  jelly  will 
answer ;  crab  apple  or  grape  jelly  is  very  good.  Wine  may  be 
added  to  the  gravy  if  liked.  To  carve  this  joint,  the  dish  should 
be  so  placed  upon  the  table  that  the  knuckle  will  be  farthest  from 
the  person  carving.  It  looks  well  to  wrap  the  knuckle  with 
fringed  paper  as  in  the  plate  ;  some  of  the  best  fat  lies  under,  and 
if  it  should  be  necessary  to  use  this,  lift  the  joint  by  the  part  of  the 
knuckle  wrapped  in  paper.  Cut  a  deep  gash  (but  do  not  take 
out  a  slice)  from  a  to  b,  slanting  the  knife  a  little,  then  take  the 
slices  from  a  to  d ;  cut  them  of  moderate  thickness  and  put  upon 
each  plate  a  slice  of  the  fat.  A  haunch  of  mutton  is  carved  in 
the  same  way. 

151.  Leg  of  Pork. — This  may  be  stuffed  or  not  as  preferred 

if  stuffed,  cut  a  slit  near  th* 
knuckle,  run  the  knife  between 
the  meat  and  bone,  loosening  i! 
carefully.  Make  a  rich  stuffing, 
season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  onion, 
and  sage;  insert  as  much  of  the  stuffing  as  possiole,  or  the  bon« 
may  be  entirely  removed  and  the  space  rilled  with  stuffing.  Tak# 
a  few  stii.ches  to  prevent  the  stuffing  from  falling  out;  wrap  a 


MEATS  8£ 

tope  around  the  joint  to  keep  it  in  proper  shape.  Nothing  baste* 
it  so  well  as  good  olive  cil;  it  must  not  be  the  least  rancid. 
Sh  mid  there  be  a  prejudice  against  this,  use  fresh  butter  ;  this  give* 
lLo  meat  a  more  delicate  iavor  than  lard.  Fresh  pork  require* 
Joi  ger  cooking  than  any  other  ftvsh  meat,  and  is  disgusting 
§n  the  eye  and  palate  if  not  thoroughly  done.  A  leg  weighing 
lit  pounds  will  require  at  least  two  hours  before  a  brisk  solid  fire. 
For  the  convenience  of  carving,  it  is  well  to  have  the  skin  scored 
before  roasting,  in  thin  strips  half  an  inch  apart,  by  merely  pasa- 
hig  a  sharp  knife  through  the  skin.  Be  careful  and  never  put  the 
roast  too  near  the  fire  at  first,  or  it  will  blister.  Boiled  Irish  po- 
tatoes, peas,  and  boiled  onions,  are  the  vegetables  usually  served 
with  this  meat.  Apple  sauce  is  a  good  accompaniment,  and  when 
it  is  not  stuffed,  send  to  the  table  along  with  the  roast  a  sauce-boat 
of  onion  and  sage  sauce. 


152.  Sparerib. — The  sparerib    of  a  full-grown  hog   is  better 
roasted  than  cooked  in  any  other  way.     Baste  it  well. 


153.  Kid. — This  animal  is  in  its  greatest  perfection  at  five 
mouths  old.  The  meat  is  delicate  and  juicy,  and  deserves  to  be 
more  popular.  Roast  as  you  would  lamb ;  serve  with  the  same 
accompaniments  and  sauce.  The  head  is  excellent  stewed  or 
baked,  and  also  makes  fine  soup.  This  meat  is  good  eaten  cold 
with  French  mustard. 


154.     A  Boasted  Babbit— Whole  Except  the  Head.— Th»   ii 
cue 


bc»t    stuffed       While  roasting    baste    frequently  with    butter; 
di  edge  it  witfc  flour  and  manage  as  with  any  other  roust     Thi 


0  MRS.    HILl.  8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

ioad  and  liver  may  be  boiled ,  split  the  head,  take  out  the  braini 
.nash  them  with  the  liver,  and  add  to  the  gravy.  Wine  and  jeilj 
4re  by  some  persons  liked  in  the  gravy.  If  a  little  thickening  it 
leeded  to  the  gravy ;  set  the  gripping- pan  upon  the  stove  an?1 
v.-dke  the  gravy  to  taste. 

To  carve  :  Take  off  the  shoulders  first,  as  indicated  by  the  lin 
!,/,  g  Divide  the  back  through,  as  by  the  dotted  lines  t,  * 
take  off  the  legs  at  h.     The  loin  and  legs  are  the  prime  pieces. 

Keep  the  rabbit  in  weak  salt  and  water  at  least  twelve  hours  if 
tha  weather  will  admit. 


155.  Roast  Turkey. — Truss  the  fowl  by  skewering  the  legsj 


Back. 


they  are  never  drawn  into  the  body  as  in  boiling.  Remove  th« 
skewers  before  sending  the  turkey  to  the  table.  A  turkey  for 
roasting  or  baking  may  be  kept  longer  than  for  boiling.  Atler 
cleaning  it  well,  wipe  it  dry,  and  without  any  or  very  little  salt, 
let  it  hang  several  days.  When  ready  for  the  spit,  fill  it  with  a 
rich  stuffing.  The  stuffing  must  never  be  crammed — allow  some 
room  for  swelling ;  cut  off  the  neck  bone ;  stuif  the  craw  and  tie 
the  skin  securely.  Close  the  slit  in  the  abdomen  with  a  few 
•titches  to  prevent  the  stuffing  from  falling  out ;  break  the  breas* 
Done  without  tearing  the  skin.  Dredge  it  we'll  with  floui,  and 
shake  off  any  loose  particles.  Place  it  eighteen  inches  from  the 
fire,  which  should  be  brisk  and  solid.  Begin  to  baste  as  soon  as 
the  fowl  is  hot,  first  with  good  sweet  lard,  and  then  with  its  drip- 
pings ;  baste  frequently ;  when  nearly  done,  baste  with  a  spoonful 
of  fresh  butter;  dredge  well  and  smoothly  with  flour;  place  th# 
roast  nearer  the  fire  until  it  is  of  a  light  brown  color  and  the  <de*/ 


MEATS.  91 

gravy  begins  to  drip.  It  should  then  be  immediately  sent  fcc  th« 
table  upon  a  hot  dish  under  a  dish  cover.  For  gra'y — boil  trw 
liver  and  gizzard,  cut  them  up  fine;  put  the  dripping-pau  upot 
the  stove,  or  upon  a  trivet  over  the  fire,  if  a  stove  is  not  used 
Sprinkle  in  a  little  flour;  stir  it  in  smoothly ;  add  the  gibleU 
tu"  up,  and  three  or  four  nard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  half;  serve  in  J 
iureen.  A  dish  of  ri<  e  boiled  dry  must  accompany  the  turkey; 
cranberry  jam  or  any  good  acid  jelly.  Make  the  gravy  just  be- 
fore  the  roast  is  ready  for  the  table. 

To  carve  :  Take  off  the  wings.  Slip  the  knife  between  the  leg 
and  body  and  cut  to  the  bone,  then  with  the  fork  turn  the  leg 
back,  the  joint  will  give  way.  Cut  slices  on  each  side  of  the 
breast  bone.  The  white  meat  lies  there  and  is  usually  preferred. 
The  legs,  unless  needed,  are  generally  set  aside  to  be  "devilled." 
The  side  bones  and  bishop  are  favorites,  and  should  be  separated 
from  the  carcass ;  this  is  done  by  cutting  through  the  ribs  on  each 
side  from  one  end  to  the  other.  The  back  is  then  laid  upward 
and  the  knife  passed  firmly  across  it,  near  the  middle,  while  the 
fork  lifts  up  the  other  end.  Then  separate  the  side  bone  as 
in  the  plate;  the  joints  run  as  indicated  by  the  dotted  lines. 
The  thigh  and  drum-stick  are  separated  at  the  joint. 


150.  A  Goose. — After  keeping  it  several  days  until  ripe  for 
t»M>  spit,  wash  it  well,  and  wipe  dry ;  dredge  it 
Wfll  with  flour;  stuff  it  with  a  rich  stufling, 
seasoned  with  onion  and  sage.  In  a  separate 
chapter,  I  have  given  several  excellent  receipts 
for  making  stuffings.  The  plate  represents  a 
goose,  or  large  fowl,  ready  to  be  roasted  by  the 
string,  the  lines  indicating  the  manner  in 
%hich  the  breast  should  be  carved.  Roast  it 
as  you  would  a  turkey.  Serve  with  apple 
Muce. 


157.  A   Green   Goose. — A  green  goose  is  a 


W  MRS.    I11LL  8    NBTT    COOR    BOOK. 

goose  not  over  four  months  old.  It  is  not  usual  to  stuff*  thr.ia 
and  they  require  less  time  to  roast  than  a  grown  fowl.  Whei 
trussed,  the  legs  are  drawn  into  the  body,  as  in  a  boiled  fowl. 


158.  Ducks — Are  sometimes  roasted  without  stuffing.      vVhfl* 

/Z. — : ^T^x  stuffing  is  used,  well  mashed  boileo 

W..^^-~^  i*^  'r's^    P°tatoes>  highly    seasoned, 

(    /    ^'^  ^' 'CT^^Sfes^   make    a    good    stuffing.      Wild 

^^^^fc^i^^^^^ss*^"^  ducks  are  never  stuffed.  There 
is  very  little  flesh  upon  the  breast  of  these  fowls,  consequently 
they  must  not  be  allowed  to  remain  upon  the  spit  a  moment 
after  clear  gravy  appears,  or  they  soon  become  dry  and  insipid. 
Some  persons  prefer  them  a  little  underdone.  Always  stew  the 
giblets ;  mince  them  when  done,  and  add  to  the  gravy.  When  a 
little  thickening  is  needed  to  the  gravy,  set  the  dripping-pan  upon 
the  fire,  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  brown  flour.  Onion  and 
apple  sauce  are  served  with  goose,  wild  and  domestic  ducks. 

The  carving  knife  for  poultry  must  be  smaller  than  for  joints, 
and  always  kept  sharp  and  bright. 


159.  Wild  Fowls — Are  usually  trussed  with  the  head  on,  as 
in  the  plate,  turned  under  the  wing ; 
run  a  bird  skewer  through  the  thighs, 
and  tie  the  legs.  Pheasants,  wood- 
cocks, or  snipes,  are  all  trussed,  and 
served  in  the  same  way  upon  toast. 
Baste  well  with  butter ;  pour  part  of 

the  gravy  upon  the  toast ;  send  the  remainder  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Woodcocks   and  plovers  are  excellent  picked   and  not   drawn, 

wrapped  in  thick  brown  paper,  and  roastei  on  the  hearth  in  Lot 

ashes. 


I (>0.  To  Bake  Meat. — M.  Alexis  Soyer,  a  talented  Frenok 
the/ de  cuisine  prouour.ces  this  nude  ?f  cooking  "a  semi 
Barbarian  method  of  spoiling  meat."     As  it  is  usually  done,  I 


MEATS.  9% 

fully  agree  with  hirr.  in  this  opinion  ;  but,  by  care  and  attention, 
baking  may  be  made  to  nearly  approach,  though  it  can  nevei 
equal,  the  superior  excellence  of  roasting.  A  deep  iron  oven  an- 
iwers  the  purpose  better  thnn  the  stove.  WheL  an  iron  oven  ia 
is**!,  the  meat  should  be  elevated  a  fiw  inches,  to  prevent  itn 
sticking  or  scorching  A  small  trivet  should  be  kept  fcr  lai 
pLq»ose ,  skewers  crossed  will  answer,  or  a  few  muffin-rings. 
fLe  principal  rules  to  be  observed  are, bake  slowly  and  steadily  \ 
taste  frequently. 

It  h  a  convenient,  easy  way  of  cooking,  and  as  economical  aa 
Any.  A  learned  writer  upon  the  subject  gives  this  estimate  of 
the  Icjs  of  weight  which  takes  place  in  cooking  animal  food,  by 
the  three  ways  of  baking,    boiling,  and  roasting: 

280  lbs.  of*  beef  lost  in  boiling  73  lbs.  14  oz.;  about  2(H  in 
100  lbs. 

190  lbs.  of  beef  lost  in  roasting,  61  lbs.  2  oz.;  weight  lost, 
32  per  cent. 

90  lbs.  of  beef  lost  by  baking  27  lbs.;  weight  lost,  30  per 
cent.  So  that,  in  point  of  economy,  baking  has  somewhat  the 
advantage. 

In  turning,  or  taking  up  the  meat,  never  pierce  it  with  a  point- 
ed  instrument.  Keep  the  juice  within  the  meat,  and  do  not  have 
to  look  for  it  in  the  gravy,  leaving  the  meat  hard,  dry,  and  in 
sipid. 


101.  To  Bake  a  Round  of  Beef. — Keep  the  meat  until  tender . 
to  hang  it  is  best.  Never  parboil  to  make  it  tender.  I  entei 
my  protest  against  this  stupid  management.  If  not  sufficiently 
fat,  lard  it  well,  by  inserting  very  narrow  strips  of  bacon  just 
Wider  the  skin.  A  larding-needle  is  necessary  to  do  this.  Pour 
ft  pint  cf  tepid  water  into  the  vessel  in  which  the  meat  is  to  be 
taked.  Have  a  steady,  moderate  fire.  Slow  baking  is  alUimpor 
iant  Begin  to  baste  as  soon  as  the  meat  is  warm,  and  continue 
at  least  every  quarter  of  an  hour.  Use  bird  at  first,  then  its  own 
drippings      To  prevent  a  crust  firin'.ug  too  soon,  and  to  keep  the 


£4  MR8.    HILL'S    NE»V    COOK    BOOK. 

ekin  moist,  lay  over  it  thick  slices  of  suet,  pork,  or  cold  ham 
Over  this  lay  a  thin  dough,  made  of  flour  and  water  (This  ?« 
recommended  for  thick  joints,  that  require  a  long  time  in  baking.) 
Remove  this  half  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  done ;  baste  well ; 
*»  i inkle  over  a  little  salt,  if  any  is  required ;  pepper  it  well; 
dredge  well  with  flour,  and  finish  oflf  by  browning  the  meat  a 
light  color. 

For  gravy  :  Sprinkle  a  little  brown  flour  into  the  gravy  ;  sth 
it  in  until  well  mixed,  and  to  a  pint  of  gravy,  pour  half  a  tumblei 
of  boiling  water  ;  let  this  boil  up  once;  strain  it  into  a  tureen,  and 
Bend  to  the  table  unseasoned.  The  flavor  of  the  meat  is  preferred 
for  the  gravy.  Should  there  be  too  much  grease,  skim  off  as  much 
as  may  be  necessary,  and  save  it  for  soup. 


162.  TJie  Round. — The  round  may  also  be  stuffed.  Remove 
the  bone ;  fill  the  cavity  with  a  rich  stuffing ;  skewer  it  well 
bind  it  around  with  tape;  bake  by  the  above  directions,  if 
you  wish  meat  juicy,  baste  frequently.  Remove  the  tape  and 
skewers  before  sending  to  the  table.  Pickles,  horseradish 
sauce,  acid  jelly,  Irish  potatoes,  celery,  rice,  are  all  good  accom- 
paniments. 

To    carve :     Cut    off   the    first    slice    evenly,  around    the 

a 


whole  joint,  from  a  to  b.  Do  not  serve  this,  unless  an  cuteide 
piece  is  preferred.  The  soft  fat  lies  on  the  back,  below  the  letter 
d.  The  solid  fat  should  be  cut  in  thin  horizontal  slices,  at  the 
point  e.     Each  person  should  be  asked  the  kind  they  prefer,  and 


MEAT8.  iMI 

be  served  with  it.  When  the  round  is  stuffed,  it  ma)  :>e  neeea 
aary  to  allow  the  skewer  to  remain.  A  silver  one  will,  in  this 
case,  look  more  elegant. 

163.  Dr.  Kitckiner's  Receipt  for  Baking  a  Round  of  Btef- 
£eep  it  lightly  salted — a  week  if  the  weather  will  admit — le*. 
time  if  there  is  danger  of  its  spoiling.     When  ready  for  oaKing 
wash  and  wipe  it  dry.     Put  it  in  a  brown  earthenware  dish,  large 
enough  to  hold  it.     Pour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water.     Cover  it  with 
two  or  three  thicknesses  of  greased  foolscap  paper.     Never  cover 
anything  that  is  baked  with  brown  paper;    the  pitch   and    tar 
that  is  in  brown  paper  will  give  the  meat  a  bad   taste.     Bastfi 
frequently  over  the  paper.     Bake  slowly  four  or  five  hours,  in  a 
moderate  oven.     Grated  horseradish  is  a  good  accompaniment. 


lf>4.  Beef  a-la-mode. — Remove  the  bone  from  a  round  weigh- 
ig  ten  or  twelve  pounds;  keep  it  until  tender.     The  day  before 

is  to  be  cooked,  spread  over  it  a  mixture  of  two  teaspoonrals 
of  salt,  two  of  fine  black  pepper,  one  of  pulverized  saltpetre.  One 
teaspoonful  o(  cinnamon,  the  same  of  ginger,  mace,  allspice,  cloves, 
and  coriander  seed,  all  beat  together  and  sifted,  then  moistened 
with  vinegar  and  spread  over  the  meat.  Ten  o'clock  next  morning, 
fill  the  space  from  which  the  bone  was  taken  with  a  rich  stuti. ugj 
seasoned  highly  with  thyme,  parsley  and  onion.  Roll  the  piece 
a  good  circular  shape,  and  bind  tightly  with  a  broad  tape  ;  lard 
it  well  with  narrow  strips  of  fat  bacon.  Put  a  small  trivet  in 
the  bottom  of  a  pot,  or  deep  oven  ;  pour  in  a  pint  of  warm  water ; 
place  che  meat  upon  the  trivet ;  put  it  to  baking,  and  as  soon  &* 
t  warms,  begin  to  baste  with  good  sweet  lard ;  rancid,  strong 
kid  should  never  be  used  for  basting,  it  spoils  everything  it 
touches.  Continue  the  basting  with  the  gravy.  Half  an  hour 
before  the  meat  is  done,  baste  and  dredge  with  flour;  bake  a 
light  brown  color.  Thicken  the  gravy  very  little  with  brown 
flour;  pour  in  half  a  teacup  of  boiling  water;  let  it  boil  up  once, 
and  p  >ur  into  the  gravy-boat.     If  too  greasy,  remove  the  *vp*e 


•6  MRS.    HILL  8    NKW    COOK    BOOK. 

fluous  grease.     This  is  excellent  cold,  and  will  keep  weli. 
will  require  at  least  four  hours'  baking 


165  A  Brisket  of  Beef. — Joint  the  bone,  by  sawing  throagh 
h  v'Miout  cutting  the  outside  skin.  This  is  done  for  the  conveni 
Wire  of  carving.  It  may  be  stuffed  with  oysters,  or  any  ricl 
stuffing,  first  removing  the  small  bones,  and  supplying  their  places 
aith  stuffing;  manage  by  the  foregoing  directions  for  baking. 
The  heart  and  liver  are  excellent  stuffed  and  baked.  Remove  the 
ventricle  from  the  heart ;  clean  well,  and  slightly  parboil  it,  and 
also  the  liver ;  then  stuff  them.  To  make  a  good  stuffing,  take 
equal  quantities  of  the  kidney,  suet  and  feread  crumbs.  Chop 
the  suet  fine;  season  highly  with  parsley,  pepper,  red  and  black; 
salt  to  taste;  ginger  and  lemon  peel  if  liked;  work  it  up  with 
a  raw  egg.  Send  the  gravy  to  the  table  just  as  it  comes 
from  the  meat,  unseasoned,  in  a  hot  tureen. 


166.  Mock  Goose. — Cut  two  large  tender  steaks  from  the 
round.  Lay  one  In  the  bottom  of  a  oaKing-pan.  Cover  it  ove? 
with  lard ;  sprinkle  over  this  bread  crumbs,  or  dredge  thick 
ly  with  flour.  Season  with  salt,  sage  pulverized,  and  pepper. 
Lay  on  the  other  steak ;  pin  them  together  with  bird  skewers,  or 
slip  a  broad  tape  around,  to  prevent  displacement.  Spread  a 
thin  coat  of  lard  over  this ;  put  on  the  bread  crumbs,  or  flour 
as  at  first,  without  the  seasoning.  Pour  a  tumbler  of  water  in 
the  pan,  and  bake  slowly.  If  baked  in  a  stove,  lay  a  tin  plate 
»r  cover  over  until  it  is  nearl\  done.  Baste  occasionally.  Veal 
eak  is  best. 


1  u7.  A  Sirloin  of  Beef. — Keep  this  a  few  days,  until  tender 
A  hen  ripe  for  baking,  wash  it  and  wipe  dry.  Put  it  to  bake  iB 
»  deep  iron  oven,  having  a  trivet  upon  the  bottom  to  elevate  it. 
Pour  in  a  p;nt  of  warm  water;  bake  slowly,  having  most  of  the 
fire  a*,  the  bottom  of  the  oven.  If  baked  in  the  stove,  cover  th« 
meat   «Jl  ovej    the  top  with  a  crust  of  coarse  flour,  made  up 


MEATS. 


97 


with  water.  Baste  frequently  with  sweet  lard  at  first,  then  with 
the  gravy  ;  allow  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound  fo.*  baking,  if  the 
meat  is  thick.  A.l<.ut  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  »s  done, 
baste  well  ;  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  bake  a  light  brown  color. 
If  th<*  .neat  is  very  fat,  and  the  gravy  too  rich,  pour  off*  a  part 
wf-  .t  for  soup,  or  hash  gravy.  To  make  the  gravy,  dredge  in  * 
ablpspoonful  of  flour  ;  pour  in  half  a  tumbler  of  boiling  water; 
**t  this  boil  up  once,  then  strain  into  a  tureen.  The  dish  and 
tureen  should  be  hot. 


To  carve :  Cut  long  slices  from  a  to  b.  There  are  nice  tender 
slices  indicated  by  the  line  running  to  c.  Send  a  slice  of  the  fat 
upon  each  plate.     The  inside  of  the  sirloin  makes  tender  steak. 


168.  Ribs  of  Beef  Boned  and  Stuped. — Take  the  first  three 
long  ribs  ;  keep  them  several  days  slightly  salted  ;  remove  the 
bones ;  lay  the  meat  out  flat ;  pepper  it  over  well,  and  lay  over 
a  rich  stuffing,  made  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet,  or  butter 
cut  fine,  the,  same  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of 
parsley  shred  fine,  the  same  of  thyme  and  sweet  basil,  (if  liked),  a 
tablespoonful  of  onion  minced;  salt  to  taste;  pour  over  half  a 
tumbler  of  hot  water.  Let  this  set  until  the  bread  crumbs  are 
M-iirated  with  the  water;  then  beat  in  two  eggs,  and  pour  the 
mixture  into  a  hot  frying-pan,  into  which  has  been  melted  a  tca- 
npoonful  of  lard.  Stir  the  batter  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of 
mush.  After  spreading  the  stuffing  over  the  meat,  roll  it  a  gooa 
shape;  wrap  it  with  tape ;  insert  a  skewer,  and  bake  it  as  the 
•irluin.  IJeg'n  to  cai  ve  from  the  thinnest  end.  This  is  gt*>d 
5 


98  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

pressed  a  id  eaten  cold.  When  one  part  of  the  meat  is  thiftnef 
than  the  other,  cover  the  thin  part  with  greased  paper,  and  baste 
over  it  frequently,  or  the  thin  part  will  be  overdone  when  the 
thickest  is  only  sufficiently  so.  Fifteen  or  twenty  m'nutes  to 
the  pound  (depend ing  upon  the  size  and  weather)  will  be  suffi 
§ient  time  to  bake. 


169.  Spiced  Beef. — Make  a  brine  with  half  a  pound  of  salt, 
the  same  of  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  a  tablespoonful  of 
allspice,  whole  grains;  measure  and  bruise  them ;  half  as  many 
cloves;  a  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper  ground  course;  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  red  pepper  pulverized.  Boil  these  in  three 
tumblers  of  water.  Take  a  piece  of  the  round  weighing  eight 
pounds;  pour  this  spiced  water  over  it;  turn  it  once  or  twice 
a  day  for  ten  days.  Then  salt  it  sufficiently,  and  put  it  to  bake 
in  a  deep  earthen  dish;  pour  the  brine  over  it;  cover  with  a 
dough  made  of  course  flour  and  water.  Lay  pieces  of  suet  ovei 
the  meat  thick,  before  putting  on  the  sheet  of  dough.  Bake 
slowly,  and  let  the  meat  become  cold  in  the  pan.  To  be  eaten 
cold  with  pickle  and  French  mustard.  This  keeps  well.  Fresh 
beef  tongues  are  good  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


170.  Mrs.  Randolph's  Receipt  for  Hunter's  Beef. — Sel  ,ct  a  fat 
round  weighing  twenty-five  pounds.  Take  three  ounces  of  salt- 
petre, one  ounce  of  cloves,  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  one  large  nut- 
nitg,  one  quart  of  salt,  a  tumblerful  of  syrup.  Beat  the  spices,  suit, 
and  saltpetre  together;  pour  over  the  syrup;  rub  it  well  on  botk 
sides  with  this  mixture  (first  take  out  the  bone) ;  sprinkle  some 
of  it  on  the  bottom  of  a  tub  that  will  just  hold  the  beef.  Lay  it 
hi  and  strew  the  remainder  over  the  top.  Turn  it,  and  rub  the 
mixture  on  well,  every  day  for  two  weeks,  or  as  long  as  it  can 
be  kept  without  tainting.  At  the  end  of  this  time  wash  the 
meat ;  fill  the  hole  from  which  the  bone  was  taken  with  suet ;  roll 
it  tight,  and  bind  with  tape  to  keep  it  round  and  compact.  Lay 
the  meat  in  a  pan  of  convenient  size ;  cover  tlie  pan  with  a  crust 


MEATS  94 

of  coarse  flour  and  watei,  rolled  thin.     Five   hours   will    be  re 
quired  to  bake. 

171.  Steak  a-la-mode. — Cut  the  steak  in  thin  slices;  pound 
llightly.  It  should  be  kept  until  tender.  Lay  the  slices  in  an 
•arthen  dish,  and  between  each  layer  put  a  seasoning  of  a  mix 
ure  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  mace,  cloves, 
allspice,  ginger,  and  red  pepper ;  salt  to  taste ;  a  tumbler  of  to- 
mato catsup  ;  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Veal,  pork,  mutton,  and  venison  are  good 
prepared  in  this  way.  When  spices  are  not  relished  with  meat, 
always  omit  them  and  use  any  seasoning  preferred. 


172.  To  Bake  a  Fillet  of  Veal. — Hang  it  until  tender,  wiping 
it,  every  day  with  a  dry  cloth.  Meat  should  not  be  laid  upon 
wood,  as  this  keeps  it  damp.  When  ready  for  baking, 
separate  the  fillet  or  thigh  from  the  loin  and  shank.  Take  out  the 
bone  with  a  sharp  knife ;  fill  the  space  with  a  rich  force-meat  of 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  onion,  parsley,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  beat  in  two  eggs  and  fry  the  mix- 
ture, stirring  constantly,  ten  minutes.  Wrap  the  flap  around. 
After  being  stufTed  and  wrapped  it  should  look  as  before  the  bone 
was  removed.  Wrap  tape  around  and  msert  a  skewer  as  in  the 
plate ;  put  it  in  the  oven  with  something  under  to  elevate  it  an 
inch  at  least ;  pour  in  a  pint  of  warm  water.     Bake  slowly  audi 


baate  frequently.  If  the  gravy  is  not  rich  enough,  rub  an  even 
tablespoonful  of  flour  into  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  add  to 
the  g-avy.     Tomato  patsup  with  the  gravy  is  an  improvement; 


iOO  mrs.   htll's  new  cook  book. 

to  t  tfo  tumblers  of  gravy  add  half  a  tumbler  of  catsup,  01  stew  • 
few  tomatoes  and  a  little  spice  with  the  gravy. 

To  carve:  A  fillet  resembles  a  round  of  beef  and  is  carved  in 
the  same  way.  Cut  off  the  top  outside  piece,  then  cut  round,  thin 
iliees.  Send  some  of  the  stuffing  upon  each  plate.  Serve  with 
sickle,  catsup,  or  French  musUird. 

173.  Veal  a- la  mode. — Prepare  this  two  days  before  cooking 
Cut  half  a  pound  of  bacon  in  thin  strips,  removing  the  skin  and 
any  rancid  parts.  Let  them  be  two  inches  long  and  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick ;  with  a  sharp  knife  make  deep  incisions  all  over 
the  meat  very  near  each  other.  Prepare  a  seasoning  of  a  quarter 
cf  a  pound  of  kidney  suet,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  thyme,  pars- 
ley chopped  fine,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  onion  minced  very  fine, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each  of  mace,  cloves,  and  allspice,  and 
one  nutmeg,  beaten  together  and  sifted ;  mi  <  with  the  onion  and 
parsley.  Season  high  with  red  and  black  pepper  mixed,  a  table- 
spoon even  full  of  salt.  Put  a  little  of  this  seasoning  into  each  in- 
cision, then  roll  each  slice  of  bacon  in  it,  and  press  them  down  in- 
into  the  slits  or  incisions ;  also  cover  the  top  of  the  meat  with  the 
season ing.  Lay  it  in  a  deep  earthen  pan  large  enough  to  hold 
It  without  cramping ;  cover  it  close  and  keep  it  two  days  after  it 
Is  prepared  in  this  way.  When  ready  for  baking,  pour  a  tumbler 
of  warm  water  in  the  dish,  and  bake  four  hours,  if  the  piece 
weighs  ten  pounds ;  baste  well  with  good  sweet  lard.  This  is 
excellent  cold ;   should  be  prepared  in  cool  weather. 


174.  To  Bake  a  Calf's  Head. — After  boiling  ;i  remove  the 
bones  (cut  out  the  tongue  and  serve  upon  a  separate  dish)  ;  cut 
the  pieces  in  slices  of  uniform  size.  Lay  them  in  a  fire-prool 
dish.  Grate  a  tumblerful  of  bread  crumbs,  mix  with  them  a 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sage,  the  same  of  parsley  shred  fine, 
And  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper.  Beat  up  th« 
yolk  of  an  egg,  put  this  smoothly  all  over  the  meat;  then  sprinkle 
over  thick  the  bread-crumb  mixture;   put  it  in  the  a^**  and 


MEATS.  101 

when  It  begins  to  brow  n,  begin  immediate",  y  to  ")aste  over  it  with 
melted  buttei  ;  a  very  few  minutes  will  be  required  to  bake  it. 
Serve  with  a  piquant  sauce,  made  by  seasoning  a  pint  of  the  broth 
the  meat  was  boiled  in  with  mace,  pepper,  wine,  or  catsup ;  or 
Itew  mushrooms  in  the  gravy.  The  brains  may  be  manned  and  add- 
ed to  the  gravy.  Celery  vinegar  seasons  the  gravy  well.  The  per 
ton  who  directs  in  such  matters  in  each  family  should  give  especial 
Obstructions  as  to  the  sauce  to  be  used  with  each  dish,  adding  the 
ingredients  to  suit  the  taste  of  those  who  are  to  be  served.  In 
many  families  there  is  but  one  style  of  gravy  or  sauce,  or  at  best 
two.  and  this  never  varies.  Where  a  supply  of  flavored  vinegars 
and  catsups  are  kept  on  hand,  nothing  is  easier  than  to 
give  a  pleasing  variety.  To  have  the  same  unvarying  sauce, 
gravy,  or  stuffing,  denotes,  as  Dr.  Kitchiner  expresses  it,  "poverty 
of  invention."  Lamb  and  kid's  head  are  good  prepared  in  this 
way  ;  also  calf's  feet  and  turtle  fins: 


175.  To  Bake  Sioeetbreads. — Lay  them  in  water  an  hour  be- 
fore using ;  parboil  them.  Cut  slits  over  them  and  lay  in  strips 
of  pork  or  bacon.  Put  the  sweetbreads  in  a  shallow  fire-proof 
dish ;  pour  in  a  tumbler  of  the  water  they  were  boiled  in ;  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  with  an  even  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed 
in.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Baste  well,  and  serve  as  soon  as 
done.     A  pint  of  oysters  added  to  the  gravy  will  improve  it. 


176.  To  Bake  a  Fresh  Beef  Tongue. — Parboil  it  in  very  little 
water,  just  enough  to  cover  it,  two  hours.  Take  it  up,  cover  it 
over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  then  sift  over  a  thick  coat  of  fin* 
bre<ad  crumbs ;  lay  it  in  a  pan ;  pour  in  a  tumblerful  of  the  broth 
t  was  boiled  in  ;  bake,  basting  well  with  butter. 


177.  Veal  Cake. — Take  any  kind  of  veal  free  from  bone  of 
p-istle ;  chop  it  fine.  It  may  be  cooked  or  uncooked,  but  it  iff 
best  uncooked.     Season  highly  with  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  and 


1 02  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

onion;  use  part  red  pepper.  Mix  these  well  with  the  meat 
work  in  an  even  tablespoonfi  1  of  b  itter.  Mince  very  line  foul 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  a  teacup  of  bread  crumbs;  work  all  together 
binding  the  whole  with  three  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
together  a  few  minutes;  shape  this  into  a  large  ball  or  cake 
Grease  a  fire-proof  dish  well  with  butter;  lay  the  cake  in;  sprm 
kle  over  the  top  very  fine  bread  crumbs ;  lay  over  bits  of  outtei 
and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven  if  the  meat  ia 
raw,  or  less  time  if  the  meat  is  already  done. 

For  gravy  :  As  soon  as  the  meat  is  removed  from  the  bones, 
put  them  (and  break  them  if  necessary),  with  any  skin  or  scraps 
of  meat  that  would  not  answer  for  the  cake,  into  a  stew-pan;  pouT 
i>ver  water  to  cover  them  well,  and  simmer  steadily  until  the 
••-ake  is  nearly  ready  for  the  table ;  strain  the  liquor ;  return  it  to 
the  stew-pan,  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  into 
h  tablespoonful  of  butter,  for  a  pint  of  gravy.  Season  with  catsup. 
Send  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat. 


178.  To  Bake  Mutton. — Keep  it  as  long  as  it  can  be  done  safe- 
ly. If  not  fat,  lard  it  with  strips  of  bacon.  As  with  all  other  joints, 
bake  slowly  and  baste  well.  Attention  and  good  judgment  are 
necessary  to  know  when  to  take  the  meat  up ;  it  will  very  soon 
become  dry  and  hard  if  suffered  to  remain  in  a  hot  oven  after  it 
is  done.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  in  this  way :  Strain  the  gravy 
into  a  stew-pan,  stir  it  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes ;  add  a  glass  of 
Madeira  wine,  and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  acid  jelly,  currant  or 
grape  is  best ;  serve  in  a  tureen.  As  the  wine  and  jelly  may  not 
be  liked  by  some  persons,  send  a  sauce-boat  of  gravy  made  with 
ml  them,  slightly  thickened  with  browned  flour. 


179.  Mutton  to  Imitate  Venison. — Take  the  breast,  or  best  par* 
of  a  neck  of  mutton.  Rub  it  over  well  with  a  mixture  oi  half 
an  ounce  of  allspice  and  the  same  of  black  and  red  pepper  mix»d. 
Rub  *vith  this  and  turn  once  a  day  for  two  days ;  when  icady  to 
KaKe,  wash  off  the  spice ,  put  it  in  a  pan  or  oven,  lay  ovn  it  slice* 


MRAT8.  i05» 

of  cold  nam  taken  from  the  fat  part;  oier  Uis  lay  a  *:hni  sheet  J 
dough  m;ide  of  flour  and  water;  pour  in  a  tumbler  of  hot  water. 
Bake  with  a  brisk  solid  fire;  baste  with  its  own  gravy.  Wheft 
nearly  done  remove  the  crus*:;  baste  well ;  dredge  v\ith  flour, 
brown  a  li*rht  color.     Eat  hot  or  cold.     This  is  excellent. 


180.  Tc  Bake  Land  or  Aid. — Follow  the  directions  given  fbi 
baking  mutton.  It  requires  less  time  to  bake  lamb  or  kid  than 
mutton.  When  half  done,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  wait 
ten  n».»iutes;  baste  well,  and  dredge  with  flour;  bake  a  light 
color.  If  properly  basted,  the  meat  will  be  delightfully  juicy. 
The  fore  quarter  and  loin  are  sometimes  baked  together  when  the 
animal  is  small.  Joint  the  large  bone  to  make  the  carving  easy. 
This  is  also  good  barbecued.  A  hind  quarter  is  excellent  stuffed ; 
remove  the  bone  and  fill  the  cavity  with  a  rich  force-meat.  Thicken 
the  gravy  slightly  with  a  paste  made  of  flour  (browned  flour  is 
best)  and  water;  stir  this  into  the  gravy,  and  stew  a  few  minutes. 
Should  there  be  unnecessary  grease,  take  it  off.  With  a  proper 
fire,  one  hour  will  bake  a  joint  weighing  five  pounds.  Mint 
sauce  must  always  be  served  as  an  accompaniment.  Send  the 
gravy  in  a  tureen.  Green  peas,  lettuce,  potatoes,  are  suitable  vege- 
tables to  be  served  with  lamb. 
To  carve:  Divide  the  shoulder 
from  the  breast  and  ribs,  by  pass- 
ing the  knife  under  the  knuckle, 
in  the  direction  a  b  c.  Lea,ve  part 
of  the  meat  on  the  ribs.  Lay 
this  upon  a  separate  dish ;  cut  in  the  direction  of  c  toe.  The  ribs 
are  now  separated  from  the  gristly  part,  and  may  be  divided  a 
indicated  by  the  dotted  lines  e  e  or  iL 


181.  To  Bake  a  Fresh  Venison  Ham. — If  not  very  fat,  cut 
incisions  lengthwise  on  the  top ;  into  these  insert  narrow  strips 
of  pickled  pork  or  fat  bacon  ;  press  them  in  below  the  suifaee; 
ran  a  sharp  narrow-bladed  knife  between  the  shank   bone  and 


104  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

meat,  and  ins*  rt  rich  stuffing ;  tie  it  around  the  shark  to  icci  rt  tht 
stuffing  from  falling  out.  Spread  a  coat  of  butter  over  the  whol« 
surface  of  the  meat;  hy  over  it  a  thin  crust  of  flour  and  water , 
put  it  to  bake  in  a  pan ;  pcur  in  a  tumbler  of  water.  W  hen 
hilf  done,  season  wit-h  salt  and  pepper;  remove  the  crust;  bast* 
well ;  dredge  well  with  flour,  and  let  it  bake  until  a  light  brown 
Carve  it  as  in  the  directions  given  for  roasting  a  haunch  of  venison 
and  serve  with  the  same  accompaniments. 

182.  Mock  Venison.— Cut  the  meat  from  a  good  round  of 
veal ;  trim  the  skin  off  carefully  ;  grind  the  meat ;  season  with 
spices  to  taste ;  pepper  highly ;  add  a  third  bread  crumbs  ;  two 
or  three  eggs  to  bind  the  whole  together.  Give  the  meat  a  good 
shape;  wrap  it  well  in  the  skin;  bind  it  with  broad  tape;  bake 
it ;  serve  hot  with  gravy,  or  press  and  eat  cold  ;  will  keep  several 
days  in  cold  weather  j  remove  the  tape. 

183.  To  Bake  a  Pig. — All  meats  are  better  for  being  kept 
several  hours  after  being  killed,  except  pig.  Dr.  Kitchiner  says, 
"  it  loses  part  of  its  goodness  every  hour  after  being  killed  ;  if 
not  fresh,  no  art  can  make  the  crackling  crisp."  If  intended  to 
be  baked  whole,  it  should  not  exceed  a  montli  old,  and  should  be 
fat  and  plump.  Kill  it  early  in  the  morning,  if  for  dinner.  Im- 
merse it  in  hot  water  (but  not  boiling)  a  few  minutes  j  the* 
scrape  off  the  hair,  repeating  the  process  until  every  part  is 
white  and  clean ;  force  off  the  horny  part  attached  to  the  feet 
Cut  off  the  feet  at  the  first  joint;  do  this  carefully,  with  a  eb&rp 
knife.  They  are  often  very  carelessly  chopped  off,  leaving  tiw 
bone  projecting  beyond  the  meat.  Mrs.  Hale  gives  excellent  di 
rections  for  thoroughly  cleaning  a  pig :  "  Take  the  wax  out  of 
the  ears  ;  the  dirt  from  the  nostrils  by  using  a  small  skewer  (oi 
piece  of  wire)  covered  with  a  bit  of  thin  rag,  which  you  must 
wipe  often  upon  a  coarse  towel  or  dish-rag  ;  take  out  the  eyes  with  8 
■harp  knife  or  fork ;  clean  the  tongue,  gums  and  lips,  by  wrap 
ing  with  a  sharp  knife;  wipe  them ;  be  careful  not  to  cut  them 


MEATh.  105 

run  your  hand  up  the  throat  ;  take  out  all  the  clotted  Hood  and 
loose  pieces  found  there,  and  lastly  cleanse  the  other  end  of  the  pig, 
by  putting  a  skewer  covered  with  a  eioth  through  from  the  inside; 
wipe  <he  inside  clean  with  a  damp  cloth  ;  make  a  slit  in  the  aula 
men,  and  take  out  the  entrails;  wash  it  in  two  or  three  waters; 
wipe  it  dry,  and  wrap  it  immediately  in  a  cloth  to  protect  it 
frcm  the  air.  Prepare  the  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  moistened 
with  water,  seasoned  with  onion  and  sage;  a  tablespoonful  oi 
butter ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  mash  the  bread  smooth  ;  beat 
into  it  two  eggs,  and  put  the  mixture  to  fry  until  as  thick  as 
mush ;  then  with  a  spoon,  and  while  hot,  put  it  inside  the  pig ; 
a  few  stitches  will  prevent  the  stuffing  from  falling  out;  the  thread 
must  be  removed  before  sending  it  to  the  table.  If  to  be  baked 
in  a  brick  oven  or  stove,  lay  it  in  a  large  pan  that  will  hold  it 
comfortably ;  if  in  an  iron  oven,  put  a  trivet  upon  the  bottom ; 
pour  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  and  brush  it  all  over  with  sweet 
olive  oil,  or  good  fresh  butter.  Besides  my  own  experience,  1 
have  the  very  high  authority  of  Dr.  K for  saying  that  noth- 
ing answers  for  basting  pig  so  well  as  salad  oil.  Says  he. 
"  rub  a  little  sweet  oil  on  the  skin  with  a  brush  or  goose  feather; 
this  makes  the  crackling  crisper  and  browner  than  basting  it 
with  its  own  drippings,  and  is  the  best  wa\  to  prevent  its  blistei 
ing."  The  crackling  or  skin  must  be  nicely  crisped  and  del? 
cately  browned,  without  being  either  blistered  or  burned.  Aftei 
oiling  it,  baste  with  salt  and  water  twice ;  then  with  salad  oil  oi 
fresh  butter.  Stew  the  harslet;  chop  fine  and  season  with  pepper 
and  parsley;  serve  in  a  separate  dish;  thicken  the  gravy  lightly 
with  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  water.  If  too  rich,  pour  off  part 
of  the  grease.  Send  to  the  table  in  a  tureen.  Apple  sauce  is  a 
gcod  accompaniment ;  also  grated  horseradish,  or  mustard  pickle. 

When  done,  take  cfi*  the  head; 
cut  it  in  two;  part  the  whoU 
body;  put  the  brains  in  the  gravy; 
lay  the  pig  in  the  dish,  back 
tu  back.     The  ears  should,  wnile 


10(5  MR8      ITLL8    NEW    COOK    BC  OK. 

baking,  be  covered  with  oiled  paper,  w  they  will  become  trx  har« 
before  the  rest  of  the  pig  is  done.  Cut  them  from  the  head. 
and  lay  upon  the  dish  as  may  be  preferred.  The  head  may  also 
be  placed  as  in  the  plate,  or  as  o"-0  may  fancy.  Lay  the  stuffing 
around  and  under  the  pig,  or  upon  a  separate  dish  ;  put  some  cf 
tiiis  upon  each  plate. 


184.  Baked  Pork  and  Beans. — Wash  a  quart  of  good  white 
beans  early  in  the  morning ;  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  sufficient 
water  to  cover  them;  place  the  kettle  upon  the  fire,  and  when 
the  water  beeomes  boiling  hot — but  it  should  not  boil — pour  the 
rater  and  beans  into  a  colander,  until  the  water  drains  from 
t'lein.  Put  them  again  into  the  kettle,  and  cover  with  cold 
water,  adding  a  piece  of  soda,  or  saleratus,  as  large  as  a  bean. 
Scald  and  again  drain  the  water  from  them,  and  put  the  beans  in 
cold  water.  Soak  a  pound  of  pickled  pork  of  the  lean  part  of 
tne  middling,  in  water  enough  to  cover  it,  three  hours.  Put  the 
pork  and  beans  to  stew  in  separate  kettles.  Half  an  hour  before 
the  beans  are  done,  put  them  in  a  deep  earthen  pan,  clear  of  the 
water  they  were  boiled  in.  Take  up  the  pork  ;  score  it  across  in 
gashes  or  slits,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  apart.  Season  it  highly  with 
pepper,  and  put  it  down  in  the  dish  of  beans,  until  only  the  rind 
is  visible ;  pour  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  and  bake  until  the 
oeans  are  soft  and  the  meat  entirely  done.  The  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled  makes  a  wholesome  soup. 


185.  To  Bake  Turkey. — Prepare  the  fowl  as  for  roasting.  A 
¥  fry  deep  oven  will  be  required  for  a  large  gobbler.  If  the  fowl 
Is  old,  directly  it  is  killed  put  it  in  a  large  jar  or  tub  and  cover  it 
entirely  with  cold  water;  let  it  remain  twelve  hours  completely 
Immersed.  Then  remove  the  feathers.  I  ne rer  suffer  a  fowl  to 
be  beheaded  and  thrown  upon  the  groun  1  to  flatter  until  life  is  e* 
tinct,  but  before  the  head  is  taken  off,  have  the  feet  tied  firmly  with 
a  small  cord,  half  a  yard  long ;  then  decapitate.  Tie  the  other  end  cl 
the  cord  to  a  board,  fastened  at  each  end  to  a  post,  (a/owl  gallows); 


VJtkT9.  100 

the  fowl  should  swing  until  dead ;  managed  ir  this  way,  the  meat 
is  whiter  and  there  are  no  bruises;  stuff  with  a  rich  force-meat.  1 
ometimes  spice  the  force-meat;  for  variety,  add  sausage  ir*»*  **> 
the  batter  used  in  making  the  stuffing.  When  put  to  bake,  ekvaie 
the  turkey  a  little;  it  will  be  less  liable  to  burn  than  if  laid  nj  01 
the  bottom  of  the  oven.  Lay  slices  of  pickled  pork  or  fat  bacon, 
taking  off' the  rind  and  any  rancid  part,  over  the  breast  th'uk  and 
tuck  a  piece  under  each  wing;  pour  in  a  pint  of  warm  water. 
Cover  the  vessel  with  a  well-fitting  cover  and  bake  slowly,  putting 
most  of  the  fire  under  the  oven  until  ready  to  brown  it.  If  baked 
in  a  stove,  put  over  a  cover  of  dough,  made  of  Hour  and  water  ; 
remove  it  when  the  turkey  is  nearly  done.  Baste  very  frequent- 
ly,  with  sweet  lard  at  first,  then  with  the  gravy.  In  turning  or 
taking  it  up,  be  careful  not  to  puncture  it  with  a  fork  or  other 
sharp  instrument ;  this  makes  unsightly  gashes  and  lets  out  the 
juice.  Half  an  hour  before  the  turkey  is  done,  put  the  giblets  to 
stew;  boil  four  or  five  eggs  hard ;  cut  up  the  giblets  when  done ; 
slice  the  eggs,  and  put  them  with  the  gravy  into  a  tureen.  Serve 
the  turkey  upon  .»  hot  dish.  Rice  boiled  dry  should  be  sent  to 
the  table  with  it,  and  cranberries  or  stewed  apples. 


180.  Goose. — Rub  the  goose,  the  night  before  it  is  to  be  cooked, 
with  a  mixture  of  pulverized  sage,  salt  and  pepper — equal  propor- 
tions of  sage  and  pepper,  and  as  mach  again  of  salt.  When  ready 
for  baking,  wash  it  well  and  wipe  dry  ;  stuff  it  with  the  following 
pre] »aration :  one  tea-cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  of  well-mashrd 
Irish  potatoes,  two  tablesponfuls  of  onion  shred  very  fine,  twe 
teaspoonfuls  of  sage,  rubbed  fine  and  sifted  if  dry,  chopped  fine  if 
green  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  beat  in  two  eggs ;  add  a  tablespoon 
fill  of  butter,  and  fry  a  few  minutes,  stirring  constantly ;  put  this 
hot  ii  to  the  goose.  If  the  flavor  of  sage  is  not  relished,  u?e  less 
or  omit  it  altogether.  Put  it  to  bake  in  a  pan  or  oven  ;  baste 
well.  Stew  the  liver  and  gizzard  in  very  little  water ;  slice  them 
and  add  to  the  gravy,  or  keep  them  whole,  and  lay  upon  the 
dish.     The   liver  is  considered   a   great  delicacy.      Thicken  th« 


J08  MRS.    ITILL8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

gravy    slightly   with    flour.     Curve  as  the  roast  gooss      Ociot 
sauce  or  apple  sauce  are  the  proper  sauces. 


187.  Ducks. — Two  are  necessary  if  t'..~  f'ai;iily  numbeis  half  I 
dozen.  Clean  them  well  the  evening  before  4,hey  are  wanted* 
Singe  off  any  hairs  that  may  remain  after  being  picked ;  season  th* 
atuiiing  highly  with  onions  and  sage.  Rub  the  ducks  over  with 
butter.  Put  them  to  bake ;  when  warm  begin  to  baste.  If 
young  and  tender,  an  hour  will  be  sufficient  time  to  bake  them. 
Mince  the  giblets  and  add  to  the  gravy.  Onions,  stewed  cran- 
berries, apple  sauce,  and  rice — all,  or  either  of  them,  should  be  sent 
to  the  table  with  the  ducks. 

Wild  ducks  are  seldom  stuffed,  and  require  less  baking  than 
the  domestic. 


188.  Partridge. — To  carve:  Divide  in  half  lengthwise.  Pigeoi 
the  same  way. 


189.  Large  Fowls,  Chickens,  Guinea  Fowls,  Capons — How  to 
Fatten,  and  Bake. — Fowls  should  be  cooped  several  days  before 
being  killed,  and  supplied  regularly  with  fresh  water  and  an 
abundance  of  nutritive  food.  Nothing  is  better  for  them  than 
coin  meal,  made  into  dough  with  boiling  water.  To  feed  them 
once  a  day  with  rice,  just  scalded  well  until  the  grains  begin  U> 
well,  fattens  them  rapidly  and  improves  the  quality  of  the  meat. 
Never  prepare  more  dough  or  rice  than  can  be  used  )  efore  it 
sours  ;  when  it  becomes  so  it  is  injurious,  and  fowls  will  not  fatten 
wp:>n  it.  Their  coops  should  be  kept  clean  and  dry  ;  a  good  plan 
is  *,o  build  fattening-coops,  by  driv'ng  four  posts  into  the  ground 


MEATS  109 

the  size  you  wish  the  coop;  fill  up  the  space  between  with  uar 
row  strips  of  plank,  far  enough  apart  to  allow  the  fowls  to  feed 
by  thrusting  their  heads  through  the  bars  of  their  pri«on.  Cover 
the  roof  with  boards,  making  them  project  over  the  bodj  of  th? 
coop  far  enough  to  protect  the  troughs  placed  close  to  the  ux>p 
The  troughs  should  be  shallow  and  narrow,  kept  clean,  fr*. 
quently  replenished  with  fresh  water;  there  should  also  b« 
troughs  for  holding  food.  The  advantages  of  this  way  of  feeding 
ire  so  obvious  they  need  not  be  pointed  out.  A  handful  of  dry 
grains  of  corn  and  wheat  may  occasionally  be  thrown  to  them. 
All  this  should  receive  regular  attention ;  ample  compensation 
will  be  found  in  the  rich,  delicate  flavor  of  the  flesh,  so  different 
from  half-starved  poultry  suffered  to  run  at  large,  and  when 
needed,  run  down,  caught,  killed  and  put  upon  the  table  in  a 
marvellously  short  time.  One  should  have  the  stomach  of  an 
anaconda  to  digest  such  meat.  I  give  no  directions  for  cooking 
fowls  managed  in  this  way,  since  no  skill  or  art  of  the  cook  can 
make  them  "salubrious  or  savory." 

A  young  pullet,  capon,  or  guinea  fowl  just  come  to  its  growth, 
"fat,  plump  and  rosy,"  is  always  acceptable  to  the  majority  >f 
palates.  Kill  them  over  night;  swing  the  fowl  immediately  .if 
ter  killing.  Bake  by  the  directions  given  for  baking  fowls.  Ri  e, 
pickles  and  Irish  potatoes  are  good  accompaniments. 


To  carve :  Fix  the  fork  irt  tfre  breast ;  take  off  the  wing*,  tfiei 
ttio  legs,  then  the  men  y  though*.  In  the  plate  the  fowl  is  repie- 
fenfced  as  turned  upon  tne  side;  Jte  is  done  to  shew  how  it.  »i 


110  mrs.  nn.i/e  nsw  cook  book. 

carved  oh  tie  back.  Separate  the  breast  from  the  baok  by  cut 
ting  through  the  tender  ribs  on  each  side.  Carve  the  back  bj  th« 
lines. 

It  is  usaal  to  truss  wild  fowls  with  their  heads  on,  to  distin- 
guish them  from  domestic;  remove  the  intestines  carefully,  and 
•kin  the  feet. 


190.  Pompeifs  Head — Mrs.  Bis  Receipt. — Three  pounds  o* 
tender  beef  or  mutton,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard,  and  thres 
onions,  minced  fine.  Season  highly  with  red  and  black  pepper 
and  sage  ;  chop  the  meat  fine  ;  mix  the  seasoning  with  it  thorough 
ly ;  form  it  into  a  large  ball.  Make  a  circular  hole  half  through 
the  centre  of  the  ball ;  dredge  it  well  with  flour ;  put  it  in  a  pan 
to  bake,  baste  it  well  with  butter ; 

sprinkle  again  with  flour;  continue  to  baste  until  done.  Serve 
upon  a  flat  dish. 

l^T*  m  nearly  all  first-class  cookery  books  it  is  usual  to  de 
vote  a  chapter  to  directions  in  the  art  aJid  mystery  of  carving. 
Observation  and  conversation  have  taught  me  that  very  little  at- 
tention is  given  to  this  chapter,  ladies  deeming  it  entirely  a  mas- 
culine accomplishment.  This  is  an  error;  though  they  may  sel- 
dom be  called  upon  to  handle  the  carver,  yet  an  emergency  may 
arise,  and  it  is  well  to  be  prepared  to  act  with  grace  and  confidence; 
besiJes,  a  knowledge  of  this  art  will  enable  mothers  to  teach 
their  sons,  sisters  their  younger  brothers.  1  have  therefore  pur- 
posely so  connected  these  receipts  for  cooking  meats,  etc.,  with 
the  rules  for  dissecting,  that  a  knowledge  of  one  could  not  oe  ac- 
quired without  at  the  same  gaining  some  information  as  to  tha 
Other.     Practice  and  experience  must  perfect  the  work. 


"Cleanliness  ehonid  be  the  first  lesson  In  the  kitchen.'* 

i91  Tj  Fry  Meat. — The  frying-pan  is  decidedly  the  most 
popular  of  the  kitchen  utensils.  It  is  a  cor. venient,  expeditious 
way  of  cooking,  requiring  less  fire  than  any  other  mode.  Some 
persons  condemn  it  as  "a  pernickus  way  of  preparing  meat;* 


MEATS.  Ill 

giving  as  a  reason  that  "  the  influence  of  heat  ».n  *att\  sub*ti  ce» 
effects  chemical  changes  whereby  they  are  rendered  more  uiffi 
cult  cf  digestion  ;  hence  those  culinary  operations  in  which  »/il  i* 
•ubjected  to  high  temperatures  are  objectionable." 

Frying,  however  skillfully  performed,  can  never  be  a  delicat* 
way  of  cooking  meat,  or  one  suited  to  the  stumachs  of  child  ret 
or  persons  of  weak  digestive  powers.  Monsieur  Soyer  say  a 
that  "  the  usual  complaint  of  food  being  too  greasy  prepared  by 
frying,  is  totally  remedied  by  frying  the  meat  in  a  small  quai  tity 
of  lard,  Ml,  or  butter,  which  has  attained  &  proper  degree  of  heni^ 
and,  he  adds,  the  objection  to  this  mode  of  cooking  lies  in  the 
manner  it  is  performed,  the  usual  practice  of  cooks  being,"  to  lay 
the  article  in  cold  fat,  and  letting  it  soak  while  melting."  Dr. 
Kitchiner  defines  good  frying  to  be  "  boiling  in  fat."  Some  tilings 
•re  best  cooked  in  this  way,  others  in  very  little  fat — a  process 
Between  frying  and  broiling,  which  M.  Soyer  calls  semi-frying  or 
sauteeing.  This  is  particularly  suitable  for  cooking  meats  partly 
dry  or  underdone.  It  is  important  to  know  the  precise  time  for 
putting  the  meat  in  the  fat;  throw  in  a  piece  of  bread  just  as  the 
lard  ceases  hissing ;  if  it  browns  a  light  color,  the  fat  is  just 
right ;  if  the  bread  burns,  the  fat  is  too  hot.  For  frying  a  large 
quantity  of  steaks  or  cutlets,  a  shallow  oven  or  spider  will 
answer  bettei  than  the  frying-pan.  Watch  the  vessel  carefully 
while  the  frying  is  going  on ;  turn  the  meat  frequently  ;  be  care- 
ful not  to  pierce  it  and  let  out  the  juice.  Meat-tongs  are  best 
for  turning,  but  where  it  is  not  convenient  to  use  these,  stick  the 
fork  in  the  fat,  or  slip  a  broad-bladed  knife  under,  and  turn  in 
tnat  way.  Take  up  the  meat  the  .noment  it  is  doiie,  before  * 
hard  crust  forms ;  cover  it  |i  a  hot  dish.  Nothing  is  so  gcx>d  tci 
fry  kg  as  nice  lard.     Butter  scorches  too  easily. 


"  The  world  1b  full  of  duties  for  willing  bands. 
192.  M.  Soger's  Receipt  for  Semi-frying  Round  Beef  Steak.— 
Cut  the  steak  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick;  saw  thr  >ugh    tht 
bone,  if  it  is  taken  from  the  rump.     It  should  weigh  a  pojnd, 


112  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

and  be  fat  and  tender ;  roll  the  steak  in  flour  or  meal ;  shake  off 
any  particles  that  will  not  adhe  re.  Put  a  frying-pan  upon  the  fir« 
oi  stove,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  in  it  (the  spoon  should  not  be 
helped);  when  sufficiently  hot,  lay  in  the  steak;  in  two  minutes, 
turn  it.  Repeat  this  until  it  is  done,  never  leaving  the  steak 
ifter  it  begins  to  fry,  until  it  has  been  in  the  pan  twelve  minutes. 
Should  the  fat  become  too  hot,  lessen  the  fire ;  remove  the  pan  until 
it  cools  sufficiently;  the  gravy  must  not  be  allowed  to  scorch 
When  the  steak  is  half  done,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  putting  half  on  one  side ;  then 
turn  it,  after  frying  two  minutes,  and  season  the  other  side.  Feel 
with  the  finger,  and  when  the  meat  is  firm  under  the  pressure,  it 
is  done.  Lay  it  immediately  upon  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over 
melted  butter,  or  gravy  may  be  made  in  the  pan  by  pouring  in  a 
small  teacup  of  boiling  water  when  the  steak  is  nearly  done,  aftei 
seasoning  it.  Persons  who  like  onion  or  eschalot  with  steak,  can 
fry  the  onion  cut  up  fine  in  the  frying-pan,  allowing  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  onion  to  a  pound  of  steak.  The  seasoning  may  also 
be  varied  by  rubbing  mustard,  a  little  of  any  flavored  vinegar 
preferred,  or  curry  powder,  into  the  butter  before  melting. 


103.  Beef  Steak. — The  tenderest  are  to  be  found  on  the  sir 
loin.  The  tenderloin  is  delicious,  but  good  steaks  may  be 
taken  from  the  round.  Some  prefer  the  seventh  and  eighth  rib1*, 
because  the  fat  and  lean  are  better  mixed.  If  the  weather  is 
cold  enough  to  admit  its  being  kept  several  days,  it  will  be  bet- 
ter  than  to  seek  to  make  the  meat  tender  as  soon  as  killed,  by 
beating  or  pounding.  As  soon  as  possible,  put  the  steak  in  a 
clean  bag ;  tie  it  tight,  and  if  in  fly  season,  roll  the  bag  in  a  paste 
)f  lime  and  water,  to  stop  all  the  interstices  through  which  the 
green  fly  could  deposit  its  eggs.  Some  persons  carele?  sly  leave 
the  steak  exposed  for  hours,  giving  the  fly  time  to  scatter  egg« 
over  it,  and  in  this  condition  it  is  bagged  or  set  away  for  use. 
The  sequel  may  be  guessed.  Hang  the  bag  in  a  cool  riace;  us* 
no  aalt   about  the   meat  as   long   as   it   can   be   kept  withoui 


MEATS.  113 

tainting.  Cut  the  pieces  when  about  to  rook  trcm,  of  uiform 
size.  Should  one  part  be  thicker  than  the  rest,  equalize  the  siz* 
by  beativig  the  thickest  part.  Snould  there  be  too  much  fat 
trim  it  down.  Roll  each  piece  in  flour  or  me^L  shake  slightly 
and  lay  in  a  pan  of  boiling  lard.  There  should  be  fat  enough  ta 
cover  the  steak.  When  brown  on  one  side,  turn  it,  and  as  soon 
as  the  Mhole  is  a  light  brown,  take  it  up  on  a  hot  dish.  Into  the 
lard  necessary  to  fry  a  p^und  of  steak,  dredge  or  sprinkle  a  small 
tablespoonful  of  flour;  stir  this  in  smoothly,  pressing  out  all 
lumps  ;  pour  in  half  a  tumbler  of  boiling  water;  let  this  boil  up 
once  ;  pour  it  over  the  steak.  Onions  may  be  fried  in  the  gravy, 
after  the  steak  is  taken  up;  the  white  silver  skin  are  the  mos* 
delicate.  Fried  apples  are  a  good  accompaniment ;  also  horse 
radish  sauce. 


194.  Mrs.  F.Js  Daubed  Beef. — Have  a  round  of  beef,  weighing 
ten  pounds,  prepared  as  for  roasting.  Cut  a  dozen  long  thin 
slices  of  fat  bacon ;  remove  the  skin,  and  should  there  be  any  ran 
cid  part,  remove  that.  Lay  them  in  a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper 
and  vinegar.  Spread  the  meat  out  after  cutting  out  the  bone. 
Make  deep  incisions  in  the  flesh,  but  do  not  cut  through  to  the  skin. 
Press  the  slices  of  bacon  into  the  incisions;  roll  the  meat  com 
pactly ;  wrap  it  well  with  broad  tape,  and  insert  two  skewers. 
Cover  the  top  and  bottom  with  sliced  onion,  and  set  the  round 
away  until  next  morning.  Remove  the  onions,  but  reserve  them, 
and  also  any  vinegar  seasoning  that  may  be  left.  Put  into  an 
oven  that  will  just  hold  the  meat,  a  pound  of  good  sweet  lard. 
When  hot.  lay  the  beef  in  and  fry  it  slowly,  turning  it  twice. 
Be  careful  and  do  not  puncture  it  with  a  fork.  When  it  is  a  light 
brown  color,  take  it  up  ;  put  it  into  a  deep  stew-pan,  or  pot  that 
will  hold  it  without  cramping.  Put  skewers,  muflin-rings,  or 
an  inverted  plate  under  the  meat,  to  prevent  its  resting  upon  thfl 
bottom  of  the  vessel ;  flour  the  meat  well ;  put  it  in  the  pot, 
and  pour  over  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it.  The  vessel 
must  be  well  covered  with  a  c  C6e-fitting  cover;  s  mmer  gentlj 


IM  MR8.    mu  S   NTCW   COOK    BOOK. 

one  hour;  turn  :t;  pcur  in  the  vinegar  seasoning  in  which  thl 
bacon  lay  over  night;  put  the  onions  in  with  three  sliced  car 
rots,  ft  bun:;h  of  parsley,  thyme,  and  sweet  basil;  a  dozea 
dtavss;  the  same  of  allspice;  three  large  pieces  of  mace;  a  table 
ipooufil  rf  butter.  Cover  the  oven,  and  simmer  gently  anothei 
feoui.  Take  the  meat  up  on  a  hot  dish.  Make  of  the  broth  a 
m  ach  gravy  as  is  needed  ;  the  remainder  may  be  converted  int# 
good  soup,  by  adding  a  little  thickening,  catsup  and  wine. 


195.  Beef  Liver. — Wash  it  well;  remove  the  veins ;  parboil 
it  an  hour  before  it  is  to  be  cooked.  Pour  the  liver  and  water 
into  a  vessel,  let  it  set  until  nearly  cold ;  slice  it  in  pieces  an  inch 
thick  ;  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  half  a  dozen  slices 
of  fat  bacon ;  remove  the  skin ;  put  them  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
lard  into  the  frying-pan ;  when  the  lard  is  hot,  roll  the  slices  of  liver 
in  flour,  shake  them  slightly  and  put  them  to  fry;  turn  frequently. 
Take  the  bacon  up  when  crisp ;  they  will  be  ready  to  take  up  be- 
fore the  liver.  Take  the  liver  up  when  done ;  dredge  a  little  flour 
into  the  pan;  pour  in  a  small  teacup  of  boiling  water ;  let. atl  boil 
up  until  the  gravy  thickens  sufficiently,  and  pour  into  a  sauce-boat. 
It  should  not  be  poured  over  the  liver.  Serve  the  liver  and  bacon 
together  upon  the  same  dish.  Calf  and  hog's  liver  are  better  than 
beef,  and  may  be  prepared  in  fhe  same  way.  Butter  may  be 
used  for  making  gravy,  if  preferred  to  the  lard. 


196.  Beef  Kidney — Should  be  parboiled;  cut  in  small  pieces, 
•easoned  highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  frie  1  as  the  liver.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce. 


H7.  Sweetbreads. — Parboil  them  five  minutes ;  take  them  uf 
tud  drop  them  in  cold  water.     When  ready  to  fry,  remove  all 
ikin.  roll  them  in  flour;   season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry 
light  orown.     They  should  be  taken  up  immediately,  or  they  wiL 
be  loo  rich.     Strain  the  gravy ;  sprinkle  a  little  flour  in  the  pan 
■tir  it  well ;  pour  in  a  wineglass  of  boiling  water ;  just  as  this  boiU 


MEATS  lift 

up,  pour  in  a  wineglass  of  good  Madeira  wine,  or  catsup   /  pre 
ferred 


198  Tripe  Fried. — Cut  it  in  slices,  after  being  boiled  d  jne*f 
dip  each  piece  in  thin  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard;  take  them  up 
Mear  of  grease.  Very  few  minutes  will  be  required  to  cock  it  suf 
ficiently,  and  if  suffered  to  remain  too  long  the  tripe  will  be  hard 
and  tough.  It  may  be  fried  without  the  batter ;  put  a  table- 
wpoonful  of  lard  into  a  frying-pan ;  shred  an  onion  fine,  and  as  soon 
us  the  lard  is  hot,  put  the  onion  and  tripe  in ;  fry  until  a  light 
brown.  Serve  without  gravy  ;  make  a  sauce  and  send  in  a 
tureen ;  for  the  sauce,  use  a  tumblerful  of  melted  butter,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  pickle  (onion  is  best),  the  same  of  lemon 
juice,  or  strong  vinegar.  Let  this  simmer  five  minutes ;  send  to 
the  table  hot.     In  frying,  lay  the  rough  side  down  first. 


199.  Cow-heel. — After  being  well  cleaned,  boil  them  until  the 
bones  can  be  removed  easily.  Cut  eaeh  heel  in  four  parts;  dip 
them  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs  or  corn  meal, 
Hid  fry  in  hot  lard  until  a  golden  color ;  very  little  cooking  is 
accessary  ;  or  fry  them  plain  until  slightly  brown.  French  mus- 
tard is  good  eaten  with  them,  or  any  of  the  store  sauces.  Season 
extempore. 

200.  Veal  Cutlets. — Cut  them  half  an  inch  thick  from  the  fillet 
or  thick  part  of  the  thigh  ;  if  not  quite  tender,  beat  slightly  with 
a  wooden  meat-mallet,  not  enough  to  cut  through  the  meat;  (lour 
them  ;  shake  off  any  flour  that  does  not  adhere,  and  fry  in  hot  lard, 
turning  frequently,  or  they  may  be  dipped  in  egg,  then  rolled  in 
fine  bread  crumbs,  and  fried.  For  gravy:  Pour  off  the  fat  (use 
it  for  greasing  the  griddle) ;  put  a  tablesr  x>nful  of  butter  in  the 
pan ;  stir  in  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  flour  until  it  browns ;  pour  in 
half  a  tumbler  of  boUing  water.  Season  with  catsup  of  any  kiLd 
liked,  and  pour  over  the  cutlets.     Serve  upon  a  hot  dish. 


116  MRS.    HILLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

201.  Veal  Cutlets  with  Oysters. — Empty  into  a  bowl  a  pint 
of  oysters  with  their  liquor  grate  a  tumbler  not  quite  full  of 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs ;  add  that  to  the  oysters.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt;  let  this  stand  until  you  can  prepare  half  a  dozen 
thin  tender  cutlets.  Put  a  pint  of  lard  into  the  frying-pan  ;  whci 
toiling  hot,  roll  the  cutlets  in  flour  and  drop  them  into  the  boilii  § 
laid.  Watch  them  carefully,  turning  often;  they  must  not  be 
permitted  to  scorch ;  when  half  done,  pour  off  half  of  the  lard  and 
add  the  oysters.  Take  them  up  when  the  oysters  begin  to  shrink. 
Serve  in  a  hot  covered  dish.  Send  the  gravy  in  a  tureen  ;  a  little 
flour  may  be  added  to  the  gravy  if  it  is  not  thick  enough. 


202.  Veal  Cutlets  with  Tomatoes. — S^ald  and  skin  half  a  dozer 
large  tomatoes  ;  more  if  they  are  small.  Cut  up  fine  and  add  tn 
the  tomatoes  a  medium-sized  white  onion,  a  dessert-spoonful  o' 
brown  sugar ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  stir  them  to  the  toma- 
toes. Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  tumbler  of  hot  water,  the  tomatoes, 
two  tables poonfuls  of  line  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Let  these  simmer  gently,  covered  while  the 
cutlets  are  being  fried.  As  soon  as  the  cutlets  are  done,  put  them  in 
a  hot  covered  dish ;  pour  over  them  the  tomatoes  from  the  stew-pan. 


203.  Veal  Cutlets  Curried. — Cut  a  pound  of  veal  into  slices 
two  inches  square.  It  should  be  kept  until  tender.  Beat  up  two 
eggs  ;  have  a  plate  of  fine  bread  crumbs  ;  dip  each  cutlet  first  \\ 
the  egg,  then  roll  in  the  bread  crumbs,  pressing  the  bread  on  with  the 
back  of  a  spoon.  If  they  are  not  well  covered,  dip  again  in  the 
eggs  and  bread  crumbs.  Have  a  frying-pan  ready  with  half  a 
pound  of  boiling  lard ;  fry  a  light  brown  color.  Before  putting 
the  cutlets  to  fry,  put  into  a  s'  aw-pan  an  onion  and  tart  apple 
cut  up,  one  tablespoonful  of  tatter.  Let  these  stew,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  of  a  golden  color.  Now  put  the  cutlets  to  fry  ;  turn 
(h'  m.  Mix  upon  a  plate  two  teaspooi  fuls  of  flour,  the  same  of 
curry  powder;  make  this  into  a  paste  1vith  sweet  milk.  lour 
into  ths  stew-pan  a  tumbler  and  a  half  ^i  sweet  milk  ;    stir  it  wel} 


MEATS. 


in 


rith  the  butter.  Be  careful  that  the  butter  cbes  net  bum;  pom 
Ti  the  milk  as  soon  us  the  cnion  is  of  the  right  color.  When  '.t  be* 
gins  to  boil,  stir  in  the  paste  of  flour  and  curry  powder.  Take  up 
the  cutlets,  as  soon  as  done,  on  a  hot  dish  ;  pour  ever  the  gravy* 
K  dish  of  boiled  rice  should  -.ccompany  this. 


201.  Another  Way  to  Use  the  Curry  Powder. — Omit  the  egg 
and  bread  crumbs ;  rub  the  curry  powder  upon  the  cutlets,  and 
fry  ;  leave  the  powder  out  in  making  the  sauce,  as  that  rubbed 
upon  the  cutlets  will  be  suflicient.  Mutton  cutlets  are  good  pro- 
pared  in  the  same  way. 

205.  Mutton  Chops. — After  the  chine  is  split  open  and  the 
muttoi.  quartered,  cut  the  chops  from  the  best  end  of  the  neck 
and  loin  which  attaches  to  the  fore  quarter — the  scraggy  part  that 
'oins  the  head  is  fit  only  for  soup  or  stews.  Cut  them  of  the  same 
size,  about  two  inches  long.  It  is  usual  to  leave  one  bone  to  a 
chop.  Beat  the  thick  part  of  the  bone  until  it  is  all  thick  alike; 
with  a  sharp  knife  scrape  the  meat  from  the  end  of  the  bone  half 
an  inch ;  round  the  bone.  Great  care  should  be  taken  to  give 
each  chop  a  good  shape.  If  they  are  too  fat,  remove  part  of  it. 
Roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  When  half  done,  season  the 
upper  side  with  salt  and  pepper ;  turn  them  frequently,  and  as 
»oon  as  done  serve  immediately.  "  From  the  frying-pan  to  the 
tiouth"  is  the  proper  way.  Let  the  dish  be  hot  upon  which  they 
are  served.  From  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  will  be  required  to  cook 
them,  depending  upon  the  size  of  the  chops  and  age  of  the  animal, 
u:d  the  time  the  meat  has  been  kept.  For  gravy  :  Pour  off  the 
fat  '.hey  were  fried  in,  and  for  a  pound  of  chops  put  in  the  pan  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter;  set  this  on  the  fire,  and  stir  in  an 
aven  tablespoonful  of  flour  until  it  has  a  rich  brown  color;  pour 
in  a  tumbler  of  boiling  water;  stew  until  the  -ance  is  as  thick  aa 
rich  eream.  Season  with  any  kind  of  catsup  1  Ked,  and  pour  over 
the  chop3 ;  «»r  it  is  good  without  the  cats  jp. 


J  18  MRS.    niLL's    NEW    COOK    BOOR. 

20<>.  Mutton  Chops — Another  Way. — Cut  and  prepare  them  ai 
directed  in  the  foregoing  receipt ;  fry  them  half  done ;  make  a 
thin  hatter  of  flour,  eggs,  sweet  milk,  pepper  and  salt;  dip  thf 
chops  in,  and  fry  a  light  brown  color.  Serve  with  horseradish  <*» 
tomato  sauce.  Meats  fried  in  batter  should  never  have  the  grai  i 
|oured  upon  it. 

207.  Mutton  Collops — Are  cut  from  the  best  end  of  the  necu 
Let  there  be  a  bone  to  each  collop  three  inches  long ;  flatten  tin 
large  part  of  the  bone  (the  chine  end),  so  that  they  will  be  oJ 
uniform  size ;  fry  them  a  light  brown  color.  Into  a  stew-pan  thai 
will  hold  the  collops  (a  pound  at  least)  pour  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  one  tumblerful  of  onion  shred  fine,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste 
let  them  simmer  ten  minutes ;  add  the  meat.  Put  on  the  cover, 
and  stew  gently  until  the  meat  is  tender;  remove  any  scum  that 
may  collect  upon  the  top.  Into  the  gravy-kettle  or  a  small  stew 
pan,  put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter;  set  this  upon  the  fire 
When  the  butter  begins  to  melt,  stir  in  a  dessert-spoonful  o» 
flour ;  pour  the  gravy  from  the  collops  into  the  butter  slowly 
stirring  constantly  until  it  boils  and  begins  to  thicken.  Lay  the 
meat  in  a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  the  gravy.  Lamb,  beef,  veal, 
kid  and  venison  are  all  good  prepared  in  this  way.  Season  upon 
the  plate  with  catsup.  This  is  an  excellent  way  of  cooking  when 
the  meat  is  a  little  tough. 


208.  A  Receipt  for  Keeping  Collops. — Chop  raw,  tender  meat, 
into  small  pieces;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  pack  in 
small  jars,  and  pour  over  clarified  butter.  Tie  an  oilcloth  ovei 
the  jar  to  exclude  the  air,  or  use  an  earthen  self-sealing  can.  To 
oook :  Fry  slightly,  and  then  stew  until  tender,  seasoning  with 
onion  or  anything  liked.  The  difference  between  a  chop  and  col 
lop  is,  that  collops  are  partly  fried  and  then  stewed. 


209.  Lamb  Steaks  or  Cutlets. — These  are  cut  from  the  hind 
quarter,  without  bone,  and  may  be  cooked  as  mutton  steiks,  by 


MEATS. 


lift 


frying  them  plain  or  dipping  them  in  egg,  then  rolling  in  bread 
crumbs  or  corn  meal.  They  require  less  cool  ng  than  mutton 
itcak. 


210  Lamb's  Fry  and  Pluck. — The  small  bowels,  sweetbreadi 
At  d  kernels  compose  the  fry;  the  lights,  liver  and  heart  makf 
thr  pluck.  Clean  and  soak  them  well,  cutting  open  the  intestines 
wi  h  sharp  scissors.  When  clean,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  roll 
in  flour,  and  fry  a  golden  color.  Put  all  into  a  stew-pan,  cover 
them  with  boiling  water,  and  stew  until  tender.  Season  with  red 
and  black  popper,  salt  to  taste,  onions  and  tomatoes. 

21 1.  Venison  Steaks. — Cut  the  steaks  from  the  haunch  or  sad- 
dle, half  an  inch  thick;  fry  in  half  lard  and  butter.  Never  leave 
them  a  moment  after  putting  them  in  the  pan,  but  turn  constantly 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  when  half  done;  a  very  few  minutes 
will  be  required  to  cook  them,  but  they  should  be  thoroughly 
done.  Take  up  the  steak  into  a  hot  covered  dish ;  dredge  a  littU 
flour  into  the  gravy,  stir  fc  in  smoothly ;  pour  in  half  a  tumbler  of 
.boiling  water;  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  immediately  pour  in  a  wine 
glass  of  good  Madeira  wine ;  pour  over  the  steak.  If  preferred, 
mushroom  or  tomato  catsup  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  wine. 
Serve  with  cranberry  jam  or  any  pleasant  acid  jelly. 


212.  Pork  Chops. — Quarter  the  animal,  remove  the  chine 
b«>ne,  cut  the  blade  bone  from  the  ribs  (chops  are  taken  from  the 
fore  quarter) ;  cut  the  ribs  into  pieces  two  or  three  inches  long, 
oi  e  l>one  to  a  chop  ;  if  very  fat,  remove  a  part  of  it.  Sprinkle  a 
t  IrUie  finely  pulverized  sage  over  each  piece;  fry  a  light  brown; 
i€i  ve  without  gravy.  Fried  apples,  tomato  sauce,  or  dried  apple 
Kfcdee  a/e  good  accompaniments. 


2 III.  Pork  Steaks. — The  tendfrloin  makes  the  best  s*eak.  Cut 
thf  m  a  qiarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  fry  in  boiling  lard,  turning  con. 
•tantlv;  serve  hct.     Make  gravy  by  dredging  in  a  little  flour 


120  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

pouring  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water ;  let  it  boil  up  ono* 
and  pour  over  the  steak.  Serve  with  them  tomato  or  onion 
sauce.     Steaks  may  be  cut  from  the  hind  quarter  or  chine. 


214.  Hog's  or  Pig's  Feet. — Clean  them  nicely ;  let  them  soak  a 
&»)  and  night,  changing  the  water  once;  scrape  them  well,  and 
boil  until  the  bones  can  be  easily  removed.  Take  out  the  laigost 
bone  when  the  feet  are  large;  split  them  in  half  lengthwise. 
Make  a  thin  batter  of  sweet  milk,  eggs,  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
for  two  eggs  a  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder.  Dip  the  feet  in  thw, 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard  a  light  brown  color.  The  feet  being  al- 
ready done,  the  batter  requires  very  little  cooking.  Take  each 
piece  up  with  a  perforated  skimmer.  Lay  a  clean  napkin  upon  a 
flat  dish,  and  put  the  feet  upon  the  napkin ;  it  will  absorb  the  sur 
plus  grease.  Serve  without  gravy;  season  upon  the  plate  with 
French  mustard,  vinegar,  or  pickles.  They  are  excellent  rolled 
in  corn  meal  and  fried.  To  keep  hog's  feet  in  winter,  after  they  are 
boiled  pack  them  in  jars  and  pour  over  half  the  broth  they  were 
boiled  in,  skimming  off  all  grease,  and  half  good  apple  vinegar; 
scald  the  vinegar  every  three  or  four  days,  and,  if  liked,  spice  it 
with  mace,  ginger,  cloves,  and  allspice. 

The  feet  are  good  picked  up  while  hot,  carefully  removing  all 
bones.  Season  highly  with  pepper;  add  vinegar  and  salt  to  taste. 
Put  the  meat  in  pans;  press  it  down;  when  cold,  slice,  dip  in 
egg,  roll  in  corn  meal  and  fry  only  until  the  meal  browns  slightly , 
or  it  may  be  fried  plain  in  very  little  lard  ;  the  meat  will  fall  to 
pieces,  but  tastes  well.  Garnish  the  dish  in  which  it  is  served 
with  parsley. 

215.  Sausages. — If  in  skins,  first  scald  them  in  boil'ng  water , 
Iftt  them  remain  in  the  water  jive  minutes.  Put  a  tables  ponnful 
of  lard  into  a  frying  pan  and  when  it  is  hot  (but  not  boiling), 
prick  the  sausages  and  fry  slowly,  turning  them  frequently  ;  keep 
the  pan  covered  with  a  tin  plate.     The  manner  in  whick  sajjr<age* 


MKtTS.  VX 

•re  usually  fried  renders  them  hard  and  indigestible,  tiioy  will  not 
be,  if  these  simple  directions  are  followed. 

When  sausage  meat  is  fried  in  cakes,  form  the  meat  into  round 
Ihin  cakes;  roll  them  in  flour;  put  them  to  fry  in  warm  lard, 
lien  irh  to  half  cover  them.  Put  a  cover  on  the  vessel  they  are 
ti?d  in  ;  cook  slowly,  turning  twice.  They  are  generally  cooked 
Sty  rapidly — the  outside  only  becomes  done,  the  inner  part  i*  raw. 
Whf.ii  the  sausage  meat  is  very  rich,  less  iard  may  be  used,  some 
is  necessary  to  prevent  a  hard  crust  from  forming. 


210.  To  Prepare  Sausage  Meat. — Grind,  very  fine,  lean  and  fat 
pork  in  the  proportion  of  two  of  lean  to  one  of  fat.  Never  use 
leaf  fat;  if  more  fat  is  needed  than  is  afforded  by  the  trimmings 
nf  the  chines  and  joints,  cut  it  from  the  thick  part  of  the  middiii  g. 
lake  out  all  the  skins  and  stringy  pieces  of  meat.  Season  it  well, 
by  adding  to  every  eight  pounds  of  meat  three  tablespoonfnls  of 
olack  pepper  finely  pulverized,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  six  of 
3age,  dried,  beaten  fine  and  sifted  (measure  it  after  being  sifted), 
two  of  Cayenne  pepper ;  make  a  very  strong  tea  of  this,  using  only 
half  a  tumbler  of  boiling  water ;  strain  this.  Mix  the  seasoning 
intimately  and  thoroughly  with  the  meat.  The  taste  of  persons 
differs  so  much  in  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  kind  and  quantity 
of  seasoning,  that  much  must  be  left  to  the  discretion  of  the  house- 
wife, or  the  person  best  acquainted  with  the  different  tastes  of  the 
family.  While  some  ignore  pepper  and  the  different  spices  as 
highly  injurious  to  the  tender  coats  of  the  stomach,  others  re- 
quire such  a  tremendous  quantity  of  Cayenne,  spice,  brandy,  the 
combustibles  generally,  that,  as  has  been  well  observed, "  only  a 
fire-proof  palate  lined  with  asbestos  can  endure." 

Stuff  the  meat  in  well-prepared  skins ;  hang  them,  spreading 
them  considerably.  Never  link  them,  they  are  apt  to  mold  and 
sour  where  the  links  are  formed.  In  damp  weather  wipe  them 
and  smoke  slightly  ;  turn  occasionally.  They  may  be  kept  thrc  ugh 
the  spring  by  packing  in  jars,  and  pouring  over  sufficient  thick 
re-boiled  molasses,  or  melted  lard,  to  exclude  the  air  (the  lard  is 
6 


122  m 

best).  The  jars  should  be  kept  well  covered,  and  not  set  i.pon  i 
ground  floor  ;  there  wouli  be  danger  of  their  acquiring  ar  earthy 
taste.  The  meat  may  be  kept  without  being  stuffed,  by  packing 
it  in  small  jars ;  strain  over  the  top  melted  lard  an  inch  thick. 
It  is  best  to  use  the  contents  of  the  jar  as  soon  as  may  be  aitet  i 
is  opened. 


217.  To  Clean  the  Skins. — Empty  he  small  intestines;  turn 
and  wash  them  well,  first  in  tepid,  then  cold  water.  Put  them 
to  soak  at  least  twelve  hours,  changing  the  water.  Lay  them  on 
a  smooth  board  or  table  and  scrape  off  the  inner  skin.  Be  careful 
and  tear  them  as  little  as  possible.  As  they  are  being  scraped  blo\? 
them  up  by  inserting  a  reed  in  one  end  ;  when  an  air  hole  is  dis- 
covered, cut  the  intestines.  Casings  for  sausages  may  be  made  by 
scraping  the  fat  very  clean  from  the  thin  membrane  that  lines  the 
leaf  fat.  Sew  them  into  bags  and  stuff  them.  Smoke  slightly. 
They  keep  well.  When  fresh  they  are  usually  cut  in  slices  and 
fried  or  broiled.  When  they  become  hard,  boil  them  and  dress  witb 
butter  and  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced.  Garnish  the  dish  with  green 
sprigs  of  parsley.  They  are  good  boiled  and  sliced  cold  for  lunch 
eon ;  served  with  pickle.  When  sausage  meat  is  stuffed  in  large 
casings  they  rejoice  in  the  euphonious  appellation  of  "Tom  Thumb." 


218.  Chitterlings. — Take  the  intestines  and  maws  selected  for 
chitterlings  (and  take  those  only  which  are  in  good  condition)  ;  cut 
them  open  with  a  sharp  knife.  Hog  chitterlings  are  best— -indeed 
the  only  kind  in  general  use.  Turn  and  wash  them  in  several 
waters ;  scrape  them  ;  lay  them  to  soak  in  m  eak  salt  and  wa*,er  two 
days,  changing  the  water  and  washing  them  well ;  w  hen  chained,  ifi 
fresh  cold  water.  Boil  them  until  tender ;  pack  them  in  a  jar. 
Pour  over  weak  vinegar  to  cover  them ;  renew  *he  vin«*uar  a* 
may  bo  necessary.  Cut  them  in  pieces  if  large  ;  roll  in  corn  meai 
or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  antil  hot  in  boiling  lard,  or  dip  them  in 
thin  batter  and  fry  until  the  batter  is  a  golden  color ;  very  'title 
0O>king  is  required.     This  is  a  populai  dish,  very  rich  ;  but  should 


MEATS.  123 

be  attended  to  by  a  very  ntat,  careful  person,  and  not  suffered  to  lie 
a  moment  that  can  be  avoided  after  being  taken  from  the  animal 
until  they  are  cleaned  and  in  soak.  The  water  should  be  changed 
often  and  the  vessel  ir;  which  they  are  put  to  soak  washed  clean 
iach  time  of  changing.  Seasoned  like  oysters,  they  make  a  good 
jDock  oyster. 

210.  Liver  Pudding. — This  is  best  made  of  calf's  or  hog's  liver ; 
other  kinds  are  used,  however.  Boil  together  a  pound  of  hog's 
liver,  half  a  pound  of  the  thin  part  of  the  middling  or  breast  of 
pork.  When  tender,  mince  them  together  fine,  or  it  will  be  easier 
to  pass  the  meat  through  a  sausage  grinder;  remove  all  skins  and 
stringy  parts ;  season  highly  with  onions  shred  fine,  red  and  black 
pepper  ;  salt  to  taste.  They  may  be  stuffed  or  fried  in  cakes;  roll 
the  cakes  in  flour  and  fry  as  sausages.  They  may  be  kept  some 
time  in  cold  weather  by  first  frying  the  cakes  and  then  packing  in 
small  stone  jars,  with  melted  lard  poured  over  to  cover  them. 
When  used,  set  the  jar  in  hot  water  to  soften  the  mass.  I\>ui  wfl 
the  surplus  fat  and  take  out  the  cakes ;  re-fry  them  slightly. 


220.  Brains. — Pour  boiling  water  over  the  brains  and  let  it 
remain  for  a  short  time ;  remove  them  from  the  water,  and  skin 
them.  Beat  in  two  or  three  eggs,  according  to  the  quantity  oJ 
brains ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  have  a  tablespoonful  of  hird 
in  the  frying-pan  ;  when  hot  pour  in  the  brains,  stirring  fre- 
quently until  done. 


221.  Hock.—  One  pound  rump  steaK  ;  the  same  of  pork  steak; 
i  half  loaf  of  baker's  bre  id— trim  off  the  crust ;  chop  Jl  to- 
getlier  like  sausage-meat;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sage; 
/brm  into  a  loaf,  and  bake  like  bread.  When  it  begins  t*  baka, 
rub  a  teaspoonf ll  of  lard  all  over  it. 


124  MUS.    HILLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

221  J.  liibs  should  be  cue  through  the  none  in  a  waj  to  roikf 
the  carving  easy,  but  not  separated.  Put  it  to  bake  a  few  .,iin- 
utes  before  serving ;  when  it  warms,  barte  well  and  frequently. 
This  is  better  than  frying  or  broiling. 

222.  Soger's  Meat  Fritter  Receipt  Modified. — Put  a  pound  of 
rUle  bread  to  soak  in  just  enough  sweet  milk  or  water  to  moisten 
it ;  the  same  quantity  of  cold  boiled  or  roasted  meat ;  if  baked 
or  roasted  meat  is  used,  pare  off  any  hard  skin ;  use  sufficient  fat 
from  the  meat ;  chop  in  small  dice  rather  fine ;  press  the  watoi 
out  of  the  bread.  Put  in  a  clean  frying-pan  two  ounces  of  buttei 
or  lard,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  onion,  and  fry  two 
minutes  ;  add  the  bread,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  bread 
is  somewhat  dry,  then  add  the  meat.  Season  the  mass  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  half  a  grated 
nutmeg.  Stir  all  together  thoroughly,  and  break  in  two  eggs 
Deaten  together  a  few  minutes;  mix  this  rapidly  with  the  bread, 
and  pour  out  into  a  dish  immediately  to  cool.  Roll  it  into  egg- 
like shapes;  dip  m  raw  egg,  flour  them,  and  fry  a  light  brown 
color.  Serve  upon  a  napkin.  Send  to  table  with  it  a  tureen  of 
tomato  sauce.  This  makes  a  good  stuffing  before  made  into 
bdlK 


223.  •  To  Prepare  Chickens  for  Frying. — After  they  are  cleaned 
cut  off  the  feet,  then  the  limbs.  Cut  a  slit  at  the  bottom  of  the 
breast  bone;  take  out  the  intestines,  being  careful  not  to  break 
U13  gall-bag;  divide  the  breast;  cut  the  back  in  two  pieces; 
separate  the  neck  from  the  merry-thought.  Take  the  giblets,  viz., 
viie  heart,  liver  and  gizzard ;  cut  the  gizzard  opea,  empty  it,  and 
remove  the  sand ;  w  ash  all  well,  and,  strewing  over  a  little  salt, 
let  it  remain,  if  for  breakfast,  over  night.  Chickens  are  not  good 
croked  immediately  after  being  killed.  When  circumstancet 
compel  the  cooking  dhectly  they  are  killed,  either  fry  them  be 


IfEiTS. 


125 


fore  the  animal  heat  has  escaped,  or  as  soon  as  killed  thicw  their 
into  a  tub  of  cold  water  before  picking  them  ;  keep  them  in  this 
condition  until  needed,  then  pick  and  elean  them. 


224.  To  Fry. — Roll  each  piece  in  flour  or  corn  meal ;  ft  >  it. 
plenty  of  boiling  lard.  Should  the  lard  become  bet  enough  U 
aooieh  the  outside,  lessen  the  fire;  turn  frequently;  cover  th* 
par.  with  a  tin  plate  ;  fry  slowly.  "  To  boil  in  lard"  is  the  proper 
way  to  "fry"  chicken.  To  make  the  gravy:  Pour  oif  the  lard, 
strain  it,  and  keep  it  for  other  purposes.  Put  a  large  tablespoon- 
ful  heaped  of  butter  into  the  pan ;  rub  into  it  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  flour;  set  this  upon  the  fire;  stir  it  while  melting,  and  unti1 
the  butter  has  a  rich  golden  color.  Season  with  pepper  and  rait 
Pour  in  half  a  tumbler  of  boiling  water;  as  soon  as  it  boils  up 
once,  pour  it  over  the  chicken.  Send  a  dish  of  rice,  homing,  or 
hominy  cakes  to  table  as  an  accompaniment 


225.  To  Fry  Chicken  in  Batter. — Half  fry  the  chicken  1  y  the 
foregoing  receipt;  then  dip  it  in  a  thin  fritter  batter  and  finish 
the  frying.  The  gravy  may  be  made  as  for  the  fried  chicken,  or 
in  either  case  the  lard  used  in  frying  will  answer;  add  a  littla 
flour,  stirring  it  in  smoothly,  and  pour  in  half  a  tumblei  of  boil- 
ing water.  Never  pour  gravy  over  meats  fried  in  balcer,  but 
send  it  to  the  table  in  a  sauce-boat. 


220.  To  Brown  Fricassee  Chicken. — Cut  up  the  fowl  as  for  fiy 
ing;  roll  the  pieces  in  flour.  Put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  lard 
into  a  spider  or  shallow  oven,  and  when  boiling  hot  lay  th# 
cMeken  in ;  let  it  fry  slowly  until  a  good  brown  color  upon  both 
tides.  If  the  taste  of  onion  is  liked,  cut  up  one  fine  of  the  silver 
skin  variety.  Draw  the  chicken  one  side  and  fry  this  a  light 
brown,  stirring  it  frequently.  Stir  it  v\  ith  the  chicken;  dredg-a 
in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour  smooth!)-,  and  pour  in  a  pint  cf  boil 
ing  water;  cover  with  the  oven  lid,  and  stew  gently  a  quarter  o/ 
an  hour.     The  onions  may  be  omitted  if  not  agreeable,  and  a  tea 


12(5 

spoonful  of  i<arsley  used  for  seasoning  and  added  with  the  Wiling 
water.  A  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder  mixed  with  the  flour 
used  for  thickening  the  gravy  will  convert  this  into  a  dish  cf  cur- 
tied  fowl. 


227.  To  Fricassee  Old  Chickens. — First  stew  them  until  terv 
ier.  With  a  sharp  knife  remove  the  largest  bones ;  floui  ihs 
pi3CC3  and  fry  them  a  light  brown  color,  and  pour  into  the  frying 
pan  a  tumblerful  of  the  broth  they  wrere  stewed  in.  Dredge  in 
an  even  tablespoonful  of  flour,  cover  the  pan  with  a  lid,  and  stew 
lie  til  the  gravy  is  thick  enough.  Pour  this  over  the  fowl,  and 
serve  hot.  Onion  shred  fine  may  be  used  if  the  flavor. is  relished, 
or  parsley  chopped  fine. 


228.  Turkey  Cutlets. — Kill  a  large  gobbler ;  hang  him  up 
*'  veral  days  before  using;  then,  with  a  sharp  knife,  take  as  many 
cutlets  from  the  thighs  and  breast  as  may  be  needed,  and  fry  or 
fricassee  them.  Continue  to  cut  them  until  all  that  will  answer 
the  purpose  is  used,  then  put  the  carcass,  dissected,  into  the  soup- 
icettle,  with  a  slice  or  two  of  ham  or  fresh  meat;  it  will  aid  in 
making  good  soup.  Serve  without  gravy,  and  pour  over  melted 
butter.  Season  upon  the  plate  with  French  mustard  or  any  kind 
>of  catsup  preferred.  Should  the  common  gravy  be  preferred, 
make  it  as  for  brown  fricassee. 


220.  Croquets  of  Poultry. — Take  any  kind  of  cold  fowl ;  re- 
move the  skin  and  sinews;  chop  the  meat  very  fine;  pound  it  in 
a  i  uiible  mortar,  or  grind  it;  soak  an  equal  quantity  of  stale 
brctd  ir.  just  sweet  milk  enough  to  moisten  it  (this  should  be 
making  while  the  meat  is  being  prepared).  Press  the  milk  out 
x  f  the  bread,  adding  nearly  an  equal  quantity  of  butter;  work 
tflto  the  mixture  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  boiled  hard  and  grated 
teason  with  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  whites  of  twe 
eggs  to  a  froth  ;  stir  them  into  the  mixture;  mold  in  a  \vinet'la?s, 
or  make  in  cakes  or  balls  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  H  the  mixture  if 
too  btiilj  moisten  wrth  a  little  cream,     lake  thein  up  clear  of 


MEATS.  \T* 

grease — a  perforated  skimmer  will  do  this  better  than  a  spoon; 
lay  a  napkin  upon  a  flat  dish,  and  lay  the  croquets  upon  that. 
Garnish  with  lemon  cut  in  rings,  parsley  or  celery ;  serve  pickl« 
with  it  in  a  separate  dish.  A  handsome  way  of  serving  croquet* 
or  meat  salads,  is  to  form  upon  a  flat  dish,  the  shape  of  the  dh,l\ 
•  wall  two  inches  high  with  rice  boiled  soft,  or  Irish  potake* 
boiled  mashed  and  rubbed  through  a  colander ;  add  a  little  milk 
to  make  them  soft  enough  to  be  rubbed  through.  Boil  three  or 
four  eggs  hard  ;  take  the  yolks  out  carefully  and  grate  them  fine ; 
cut  the  whites  in  rings  of  uniform  size ;  put  the  yolk  evenly  upon 
the  outside  of  the  wall.  Put  the  dish  a  few  minutes  in  the  stove, 
merely  to  harden  not  brown  the  wall.  Place  the  rings  tastily 
around  the  wall  upon  the  outside,  sticking  a  row  of  cloves  upon 
the  edge  to  keep  them  in  place.  The  space  inside  may  be  filled 
ivith  croquets-salad,  force-meat  balls  or  small  birds,  making  a 
beautiful  supper  dish. 


231.  Bice  Croquets. — Wash  and  pick  well  a  teacup  of  rice; 
boil  it  in  three  tumblerfuls  of  sweet  milk  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  nutmeg  if  liked.  Stir  the  rice  frequently  when  it  is  nearly 
done,  to  prevent  its  scorching.  When  thick  and  dry,  spread  it 
upon  a  dish  to  cool.  Chop  fine,  and  pound  in  a  marble  mortar, 
oysters,  and  any  kind  of  cold  fowl,  fresh  meat,  liver,  kidney  or 
fisn,  equal  quantities;  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  heaped.  Make  the 
rice  into  balls;  hollow  each  one,  and  in  the  centre  put  a  su/Kcient 
quantity  of  the  meat  mixture  to  nearly  fill  the  opening;  close  the 
hole  securely,  roll  the  bails  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  then  in 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  These  may  be  varied  by 
seasoning  the  rice  with  lemon,  vanilla,  or  with  cheese,  andataifiiig 
the  balls  with  any  kind  of  jelly,  jam,  or  dried  fruit.  These  mak« 
ft  nice  dessert,  with  arrowroot  or  cream  sauce. 


231.  Brain  Croquets. — Let  the  brains — calf  or  heg — soak  an 
hour,  to  remove  all  coagulated  blood ;  parboil  them  five  or  sii 
minutes;  take  them  up  and  season  highly  with  pepper;  »alt  W 


128  MRS.    HILL  8    NEW    COOK    JOOK. 

taste  ;  just  sage  enough  to  be  recognized  ;  a  third  as  nvjch  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs  as  brains.  Work  all  together  with  two  table* 
apoonfuls  of  sweet,  rich  cream,  and  the  white  of  an  egg  whipped 
to  a  strong  froth.  If  too  moist,  add  a  little  more  bread  irumbs 
make  into  balls,  roll  them  in  raw  yolk  of  an  egg  and  bieai 
Truinbs,  or  sifted  corn  meal,  and  fry. 


232.  Force-meat  Balls. — Take  half  a  pound  of  veal  or  very  ten 
der  beef,  half  a  pound  of  bacon  or  nice  kidney  suet  if  preferred  ; 
beat  them  fine  together  in  a  marble  mortar,  or  grind  them  in  a 
sausage  grinder ;  add  a  small  teacup  of  bread  crumbs  moistened 
with  cream.  Season  with  half  a  nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mace, 
an  even  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley ;  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Work  all  together  with  a  well-beaten  egg.  If  the  paste  i» 
too  stiff  add  another  egg  or  only  the  yolk,  or  a  little  more  cream. 
If  not  stiff  enough  they  will  fall  to  pieces.  Fry  in  hot  lard 
They  should  be  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  if  for  soup ;  larger,  if  to  be 
served  with  roast. 


233.  To  Fry  Ham. — Cut  the  ham  in  thin  slices ;  pare  off  the 
skin.  If  the  ham  is  old  or  very  salt,  lay  the  meat  in  tepid  water 
an  hour  before  frying.  Put  in  the  spider  or  frying-pan,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lard.  When  it  is  moderately  hot  put  in  the  ham ; 
turn  frequently.  Ham  requires  but  little  lard,  but  it  is  always 
best  to  have  some.  Always  warm  the  pan  before  putting  in  the 
ham.  To  make  the  gravy :  Dredge  in  flour  enough  to  slightly 
thicken  it — a  teaspoonful  of  flour  will  be  sufficient  for  half  a  dozen 
feliees  ;  pour  in  a  wineglass  of  hot  water,  let  it  boil  up,  and  tliei 
p  *ur  it  over  the  ham,  which  has  been  taken  out  before  making  tru 
gnvy  thick. 

234.  Ham  Fried  in  Bailer. — Tnke  slices  of  boiled  ham  —the/ 
should  not  be  cut  large ;  season  them  with  pepper ;  salt  will  pro- 
bably not  be  needed.  Make  a  thin  fritter  batter,  dip  the  ham  in 
*nd  [r^  as   directed  in  the  receipt  for  frying  4iam.     Take  each 


MEAT8.  12f 

piace  up  separately  with  a  perforated  skimmer.  Serve  on  a  nap. 
lun  laid  in  a  shallow  dish;  or  roll  the  ham  first  in  egg,  then  in 
bread  crumbs  ;  press  the  crumbs  on  with  the  back  of  a  spoon  •  il 
necessary,  dip  them  twice.  Only  two  or  three  minutes  Are 
enquired  U  cork  them. 


235    Broiling. — Broiling  is    an    expeditious  way    of  cooking 
meats,   but  is   only  suitable  when    the    article  cooked  is  to  be 
eaten  immediately.     The  apparatus  necessary  to  conduct  the  pro- 
cess is  extremely  simple,  being  only  a  gridiron.    The  best  kind 
have  small  concave  bars,  with  a  trough  attached  for  catching  the 
gravy,  and  should  slant  a  little ;  that  is,  should  be  a  little  higher 
before      The  legs  should  be  of  sufficient  length  to  elevate  the  meat 
from  six  to  eight  inches  above  the  fine.     Always  keep  the  gridiron 
bright  and  clean ;  the  cook  should  never  put  it  away  after  using 
it,  without  first  thoroughly  cleaning  it.     The  fire  must  be  well 
attended  to ;  if  the  fire  is  poor  and  cannot  be  made  better,  abandon 
the  idea  of  broiling  upon  a  gridiron ;  the  cooking  can  be  more 
satisfactorily  performed  in  an  oven  or  frying-pan,  by  what  M. 
Soyer  calls  "  semi-frying  or  sauteeing."    Good  solid  coals  are  abso« 
lutely  necessary  to  success  in  broiling.     Place  the  gridiron  upon 
them  after  rubbing  the  bars  with  a  little  suet  or  lard,  not  enough 
to  drip.     The  bars  should  be  moderately  hot  before  placing  th* 
meat  upon  them.     If  they  are  cold  the  meat  will  broil  unequally, 
as  the  bars  keep  away  as  much  heat  as  their  breadth  covers.    Tun 
\ht  article  which   is  being  cooked  frequently.     Some  cooks  say 
'  ioey   should   not  have  a  moment's  rest."     This  is,  I  suppoit, 
a  exaggerated  expression,  simply  meaning  that  rapid  and  frequer' 
nnung  is  best.     The  cook  should  so  arrange  her  ousiness  as  not 
o  leave  the  gridiron  a  moment  from  the  time  the  thing  to  be  cooked 
ta  laid  upen  it  until  it  is  sent  to  the  table  upon  a  hot  dish  under  a 
well-fitting  cover  ;  and  it  is  due  to  the  cook  that  the  mistress  of  th« 
house  should  not  permit  the  dish  to  chill  upon  the  table  through 
the  inattention  or  carelessness  of  servants  or  any  useless  ceremo 
nies  of  thi  \ab]  z.     "  Depend  upon  it  there  is  a  great  deal  i*  dome» 


ISO 

tic  happiness  n  a  well-dressed  mutton  eh*  p,  on  i  *.:dy  nreakfael 
table.  Men  grow  sated  of  music,  are  often  too  wearied  for  eoiv 
tersation,  however  intellectual ;  but  they  can  always  appreciate 
*  well-swept  hearth  and  smiling  comfort.  A  woman  tray  love 
her  husband,  may  sacrifice  fortune,  friends,  family  and  country  for 
him  ;  she  may  have  the  genius  of  Sappho,  the  enchanting  beaut  iet 
of  Armida;  but  a  melancholy  fate  awaits  her  if  she  fail  to  make 
his  home  comfortable,  and  his  heart  will  inevitably  forsake  her. 
Better  submit  to  household  duties,  even  should  there  be  no  pre- 
dilection for  them,  than  doom  herself  to  a  loveless  home.  Women 
of  a  higher  order  of  mind  will  not  run  this  risk  ;  they  know  that 
their  feminine,  their  domestic  duties,  are  their  first  duties." 


236.  Old  FgWs  Steak. — Cut  the  steak  in  pieces  as  large  at 
the  hand,  pass  each  piece  through  a  sausage-grinder,  which  will 
merely  break  the  fibres.  Have  a  griddle  almost  red-hot — a  bat- 
ter-cake griddle  is  best.  Turn  the  pieces  constantly  and  rapidly 
Until  brown,  and  only  half  done.  Have  ready  in  a  stew-pan  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  heaped,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
rubbed  into  it.  Let  this  be  hot,  stir  it  well,  and  drop  the  steak 
in,  stirring  it  well  in  the  butter  ;  add  half  a  tea-cup  of  boiling 
water,  cover  closely,  and  stew,  shaking  the  pan  frequently.  When 
doae,  Thich  will  require  very  few  minutes,  serve  immediately  in 
a  fe(:  t  covered  dish.     Add  salt  and  pepper  after  dishing  the  steak. 


237.  To  Bioil  Bt$f  Steak,  No.  2.— The  meat  should  be  hung 
msral  day?  before  using,  if  the  weather  is  cool.  Having  hung 
long  erough,  cut  the  sterJks  half  an  inch  thick,  three  inches  wide 
aid  five  inches  long.  Thus  divided,  it  is  a  good  size  for  manag 
mj5  or.  the  gridiron,  and  as  much  as  a  person  wou!d  care  to  have 
on  their  plate  at  onje.  Should  one  part  be  thicker  than  the  rest, 
toll  it  with  a  rolling-pin,  or  very  gently  beat  it  out  to  the  same 
thickness.  The  practice  of  beating  steal.  «s  very  injudicious,  "it 
Vreaks  the  cells  which  contain  the  juices  ;"  this  escaping,  the  meat 
kcomes  dry  aud  tasteless;  bitter  always  give  the  meat  time  to 


MEATS. 


131 


become  tender  and  ripe  foi  the  gridiron.  Swecr  the  hearth  clean* 
give  the  dust  a  few  minutes  to  settle;  prepare  a  bed  of  brisk 
solid  coals;  have  the  gridiron  looking  as  bright  as  a  mirror  ;  rub 
the  bars  well  with  brown  paper,  or  grease  them  slightly  with 
suet  or  lard,  not  enough  to  drip,  for  this  falling  on  the  coals  would 
produce  smoke.  Place  the  gridiron  on  the  coals,  and  as  soon  as 
hot  (not  hot  enough  to  scorch)  lay  on  the  steak,  and  turn  fre- 
quently with  meat-tongs  or  a  knife.  A  fork,  if  -nserted  in  the 
Rteak,  will  injure  its  condition  by  making  "  taps  to  let  out  the 
juice."  I  am  conscious  of  repeating  this  caution  often ;  I  have 
done  so  because  of  the  great  carelessness  of  cooks  in  this  matter 
To  have  the  most  palpable  duties  performed  satisfactorily  re- 
quires "  line  upon  line  and  precept  upon  precept."  The  dish  upon 
which  the  steak  is  to  be  placed  must  be  hot ;  put  in  the  dish  a 
large  slice  of  good,  sweet  butter,  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
tomato  or  mushroom  catsup ;  stir  these  together  as  the  butter 
warms  ;  lay  in  the  slices,  and  turn  each  slice  over,  so  that  all  may 
be  covered  alike  with  the  gravy.  This  should  be  done  very 
hastily,  and  the  steak  sent  immediately  to  the  table;  small  space 
should  be  allowed  between  the  broiling  and  the  eating,  to  have  it 
In  perfection.  With  a  well  prepared  sauce  and  proper  accom 
paniments  there  is  not  a  more  elegant  breakfast  dish,  and  when 
the  meat  is  juicy  and  tender,  and  the  broiling  performed  with 
skill  and  dispatch,  there  is  not  a  more  delicate  way  of  preparing 
this  deservedly  popular  dish.  The  steak  is  underdone  if,  upon 
cutting,  red  gravy  flows ;  a  few  more  moments  should  be  allowed 
for  dressing,  as  the  rare  appearance  of  meat  of  any  kind  is  dis 
g  isting  to  persons  of  good  taste. 


238.  To  Broil  Steak  Another  Way.— This  can  be  done  very 
conveniently  upon  the  stove  by  using  the  batter-cake  griddle. 
Heat  it  very  hot;  while  the  griddle  is  being  heated,  place  in  an 
earthen  dish  a  large  tablespoo.nful  of  butter  into  which  a  dessert- 
spoonful if  flour  has  been  stirred,  a  tcaspor  nful  of  salt,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  peeper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom,  tomato 


132  MRft.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

or  walnut  catsup ;  place  this  dish  on  the  coolest  part  of  the  *cotb 
The  griddle  being  ready,  lay  <*n  the  steak,  and  turn  the  pieces 
constantly  with  tongs  or  a  knife ;  when  it  feels  firm  when  pressed 
it  is  done ;  then  lay  the  pieces  in  the  dish,  putting  some  of  the 
gravy  on  each  steak  ;  serve  upon  a  hot  dish.  This  is  a  sirpf.it 
out  excellent  way  of  cooking  steak.  For  steak  to  be  delightful 
\nd  delicate,  the  meat  should  be  juicy,  kept  until  ripe  ;  the  giiJcIli 
hot ;  the  meat  turned  constantly ;  the  seasoning  of  the  right  kind 
and  quantity  ;  the  dish  upon  which  it  is  to  be  served,  not;  nursed 
with  care  from  beginning  to  end;  and  lastly,  eaten  as  soon  as 
cooked.  The  advantage  of  placing  the  meat  upon  a  very  hot 
griddle,  is,  that  the  fibres  on  the  surface  contract,  and  this  almost 
entirely  prevents  the  natural  juices  from  escaping,  and  in  propor 
tion  to  the  loss  of  the  juice  the  meat  becomes  dry  and  tasteless. 


239.  Another  Way. — Cut  the  steaks  an  inch  thick;  make  a 
few  incisions  in  each  piece  of  meat;  this  must  be  done  after  the 
meat  has  hung  as  long  as  is  prudent.  Prepare  a  marinade,  by 
mixing  in  a  deep  dish  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper, 
two  of  vinegar,  four  of  mushroom  catsup;  turn  the  pieces  in  the 
mixture;  let  it  lie  all  night;  dust  each  piece  lightly  with  flour, 
and  broil  over  a  quick  fire ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish  and  butter  well. 
This  is  a  good  breakfast  dish,  and  is  best  cut  from  the  ribs  of  the 
sirloin. 


240.  To  Broil  Round  Steak. — Cut  a  pound  and  a  half  of  steak 
from  the  round;  saw  neatly  through  the  bone;  let  it  be  from 
ihree-quarters  to  an  inch  thick,  cut  of  the  same  size.  Who  n  the 
teak  is  large  and  thick,  the  process  of  broiling  iauot  be  slowet 
than  for  thinner  pieces,  and  the  turning  less  frequent.  If  there  is 
diversity  of  tastes  in  the  family,  one  end,  by  placing  it  nearest 
the  fire,  can  be  cooked  as  much  more  than  the  other  as  is  desir  *d. 
The  cook  must  acquaint  herself  with  the  tastes  of  those  for  wlu.in 
sue  works,  and  spare  no  pains  to  please ;  have  the  dish  upon 
which  it  is  to  be  served  warm,  and  when  the  steak  is  moved, 


MEATS. 


133 


■houM  there  be  any  gravy  alout  it,  liokl  the  pie.e*.  between  tho 
steak  tongs  over  the  warm  dish ,  and  let  it  drip.  It  requires 
practice  and  close  attention  to  decide  upon  the  exact  roo  nenk 
when  the  steak  is  done,  neither  over  nor  underdone.  When  it 
is  just  ready  to  be  dished,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  laj 
butter  on  and  over  the  steak.  Onions,  curry  powder  and  musb- 
ro<  ms  are  used  for  seasoning  ;  but  as  tastes  differ  as  much  as  faces, 
it  is  a  good  arrangement  to  serve  with  sauces  separately,  Among 
the  receipts  for  sauces  will  be  found  several  good  ones  for  steaks, 
chops,  etc.  The  housewife  should  select  different  ones  for  different 
times,  and  thus  give  a  pleasing  variety  to  the  same  dish. 


241.  Another  Way  of  Cooking  a  Pound  or  More  of  Steak. — 
After  hanging  until  tender,  season  with  onions,  pepper,  salt,  etc.; 
lay  I  on  a  well-covered  stew-pan;  set  it  on  the  fire,  without 
water;  it  must  have  a  strong  heat,  but  not  burn;  turn  frequently 
until  dune,  and  serve  with  its  own  gravy. 


242.  To.  Cure  Beef  for  Broiling. — After  the  steak  has  hung  as 
long  as  it  can,  without  spoiling,  cut  it  in  pound  pieces,  and  tc 
every  piece  rub  on  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  black  pepper,  and 
as  much  saltpetre  pulverized  as  can  be  held  between  the  finger 
and  thumb;  rub  this  on  well.  Lay  them  upon  a  dish,  and 
cover  with  a  thin  muslin  cloth,  that  will  protect  it  from  the  flies, 
without  excluding  the  air.  Set  the  dish  in  a  cool  place.  Let  it 
lemain  two  days  (unless  it  will  taint,  then  less  time),  turning 
them  over  every  day.  The  second  night  hang  the  pieces  in  a 
£ark,  cool  place.  Next  morning  broil  as  much  as  may  be 
needed. 


243.  Another  Way. — When  kept  until  there  is  danger  of  taint- 
ing, bake  half  done  and  broil ;  pour  over  melted  butter.  Spiced 
underdone  beef  is  excellent  broiled  and  buttered,  or  broiled 
until  brown  upon  both  sides.  Put  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little 
water  or  cold  gravy,  butter  and  pepper,  and  stew  ten  minute*. 


134  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

241.  To  Broil  Dried  or  Jerked  Beef. — Cut  the  slices  thin;  lay 
them  an  hour  in  tepid  water ;  then  broil  them  until  thoroughly 
hot;  turn  the  pieces  once.  Put  them  upon  a  hot  dish;  buttei 
well,  and  serve. 


2 15.  Veal  Cutlets. — Cut  the  steaks  from  the  fillet  (upper  part 
of  the  leg);  divide  the  meat  into  three  parts.  There  is  a  natural 
indication  of  where  the  division  should  be.  The  flat  squara 
piece  is  best  for  cutlets.  Cut  them  half  an  inch  thick.  Mix  to- 
gether in  a  deep  earthen  pan  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea. 
spoonful  of  pepper,  a  tablespoon ful  of  butter  into  which  has  been 
rubbed  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour ;  catsup,  if  liked.  Heat  the 
gridiron  warm ;  lay  the  cutlets  upon  the  bars ;  turn  once ;  then 
fay  them  in  the  gravy ;  put  them  again  on  the  gridiron ;  turn 
once.  Continue  this  until  the  cutlets  are  done.  Lay  them  on  a 
hot  dish  ;  pour  the  gravy  over,  and  serve.  This  quantity  cf  sea- 
soning will  answer  for  a  pound  of  cutlets.  Veal  should  be  hung, 
and  wiped  dry  every  day  it  is  kept.  Never  lay  it  v^GL  wood; 
&m  keeps  it  moist. 

S40.  Broiling  VutHs, — M.  Soyer  gives  a  very  delicate,  way 
^C  broiling  ciiie&.     Any  kind  of  fresh  meat  will  answer  :— 

WV-sn  the  meat  has  been  kept  long  enough  to  be  tender,  cut 
and  broil   them   slightly.     Lay  then  r\  a  seasoning  of  bread 
crumbs,  an  egg  beaten,  salt   and    pepper  (a   little   nutmeg,  if 
liked),  a  tablespoonfiil  of  baiter,  a  few  mushrooms  chopped,  or 
onions,  if  preferred.     Let  them  stand  until  cold ;  place  a  small 
quantity  of  the  seasoning,  wei.  mixed,  upon  each  cutlet,  And  roll 
Isg  them  secirely,  wrap  in  well  buttered  foolscap  papc r,  by  lay 
tog  the  mpfl*  on  one  end  of  the  r»aper,  bringing  the  other  end 
over,  and  folding  the  edges  so  tnat  n0ne  of  the  gravy  can  escape*^ 
Place  them  upon  a  gridiron  at  ieast  ejght  inches  above  the  fire, 
and  broil  slowly  half  an  hoan     £je  careful  that  the  fire  does  not 
blaz.i.  -%  llemove  the  paperSj  im(\  serve  upon  a  hot  dish.     A  this 
aiicu  of  pork  or  bacon,  vVfappfcd  with  the  cutlets,  is  an  improvement  * 


MEATS.  138 

247.  Veal  Steak  (Excellent). — Take  a  handful  of  any  scrapj 
or  stringy  parts  of  veal,  tvvc  or  three  slices  of  poik,  l.hret  table 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  onions,  r*H  and  pepper;  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  two  tumblerfuls  of  hot  water.  Cover  the  stew  pan 
End  let  it  simmer  until  the  juice  is  all  extracted  from  the  meat 
Strain  the  brotli ;  wipe  out  the  stew-pan;  return  the  broth  *o  it, 
8tir  into  the  stew-pan  a  tablespxmful  of  butter,  into  which  Lu 
been  worked  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  French 
mustard.     Let  this  simmer  slowly. 

Have  the  cutlets  cut  ready ;  heat  the  gridiron  while  the  broth 
is  simmering ;  broil  them  upon  both  sides  a  light  brown  color. 
Drop  them  into  the  gravy  after  it  is  strained,  and  stew  ten 
minutes.     Instead  of  broiling,  the  cutlets  may  be  first  fried. 


248.  Steak  " Devilled" — Cut  a  round  steak  weighing  a  pound  ; 
saw  through  the  bone.  Broil  slowly,  basting  frequently  with  a 
sauce  made  by  mixing  thoroughly  a  large  table-spoonful  of  butter. 
a  tablespoonful  of  good  English  mustard,  a  wineglass  of  good 
strong  cider  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper,  the 
same  of  black,  or,  instead  of  the  pepper,  use  an  even  tablespoon- 
ful of  curry  powder,  and  a  slight  flavoring  of  tomato  catsup.  This 
style  of  cooking  steak  is  called  "  devilling"  The  seasoning 
should  be  highly  pungent,  so  as  to  leave  no  doubt  of  its  paternity. 
Underdone  meat  may  be  warmed  with  this  style  of  seasoning, 
uj>on  the  table,  in  a  chaffing-dish,  a-la-blase.  A  very  good  pro- 
portion for  a  dish  containing  half  a  dozen  slices,  is  one  table 
spoonful  of  butter,  three  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  loaf 
sugar  powdered,  and  stirred  into  the  vinegar,  one  tal  lespoonful 
of  French  mustard,  or  less  of  the  English;  season  highly  will 
black  and  Cayenne  pepper.  Put  this  m  xture  in  the  chafllng-dish. 
When  it  melts  stir  it  well,  and  lay  in  thin  slices  of  cold  ham, 
veal,  venison,  etc.;  co'd  turkey  legs,  liver,  kidneys,  are  all  good 
prepared  with  this  seasoning.  When  kidneys  are  broiled,  a  verj 
■mall  wire  should  be  run  through  them  to  prevent  their  curling. 


<3rt  MRS.    HILL'8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

'219.  Mutton  Chops — Are  cut  from  tie  best  part  of  the  neck 
with  a  bone  in  each  chop;  beat  the  bone  flat  with  a  woodei 
mallet.  Trim  the  sharp  end  of  the  bone  round  and  scrape  it 
l(  there  is  too  much  fat,  trim  off  some;  broil  plain,  tinning  fr©» 
(pently.  Have  the  gridiron  prepared  according  to  the  direction* 
givei.  *br  broiling.  If  the  meat  has  not  been  kept  until  tender, 
beat  the  meat  slightly;  but  it  is  best  to  keep  the  meat  hanging 
several  days  before  it  is  used.  In  dishing,  turn  the  sharp  endi 
cf  the  bone  in;  use  a  hot  dish;  pour  over  melted  butter;  season 
upon  the  plate  with  any  kind  of  catsup,  or  made  sauce  preferred. 
They  are  excellent  laid  in  melted  butter,  rolled  in  fine  bread 
crumbs  or  corn  meal ;  the  first  is  best ;  turn  frequently,  and  be 
sure  the  bread  does  not  scorch.  They  may,  if  the  trouble  is  not 
objected  to,  after  being  laid  in  butter,  be  seasoned  with  curry 
powder,  or  simply  pepper  and  salt ;  lay  in  buttered  paper ;  pin 
the  paper  securely  ;  twist  the  ends ;  broil  upon  the  gridiron  care* 
fully ;  turn  frequently.  The  paper  must  not  burn,  it  would  injure 
the  taste  of  the  meat.  Serve,  when  sufficiently  done,  without  the 
paper,  upon  a  hot  dish.  Make  a  broth  by  boiling  in  a  stew-pan 
any  scraps  of  the  meat  useless  for  any  other  purpose.  Strain  this 
when  the  juice  of  the  meat  is  extracted.  A  pint  of  broth  will  be 
sufficient.  Make  it  rich  with  butter.  Season  with  wine  or  catsup 
Send  to  the  table  in  a  sauce-boat.  Rice  or  hominy,  and  hot  Irish 
potatoes,  should  accompany  them. 


250.  Mutton  Steaks. — Cut  them  from  the  leg,  half  an  inch 
thick ;  pepper  well ;  broil  quickly,  turning  frequently ;  baste 
well  with  butter.  Should  the  fire  blaze  up,  remove  the  gridiron 
jntil  it  is  put  out.  Strew  over  the  coals  a  little  ashes.  The 
taste  of  those  for  whom  they  are  prepared  should  be  consulted  ai 
to  how  much  the  steak  should  be  cooked.  When  sufficiently 
done,  place  in  a  hot  covered  dish,  and  pour  over  caper  sauce,  01 
■erve  with  mushroom  sauce.  Turtle  and  rabbit  steaks  are  axcel 
lent  prepared  in  this  way. 


MEATS.  13*) 

251.  Mutton  C/.fr.'tf.-— Out  them  from  'he  rimnd  or  thick  pari 
of  the  leg;  roll  them  slightly  with  the  rolling-pin;  pepper,  and 
dusl  very  lightly  with  Hour.  Lay  them  upon  a  dish  until  you 
can  put  in  a  stew-pan  or  gravy-kettle  a  tablespoonful  of  onion 
ihrc-d  fine  (If  the  flavor  of  onion  is  liked),  three  tablespoonfuls  cf 
finegar,  three  of  tomato  catsup,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  or« 
even  tumbler  of  melted  butter,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water; 
btew  together  until  the  onion  is  tender,  and  the  gravy  thickens  a 
little,  stirring  frequently.  Broil  the  cutlets  nicely.  Take  them 
up  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  them.  Lamb  and 
venison  steak  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way.  Send  with 
them  a  dish  of  hot  Irish  potatoes. 


252.  To  Grill  a  Shoulder  Blade  of  Lamb  or  Pork. — Separate 
the  blade  bone  from  the  ribs.  Stew  it  half  done  with  very  little 
water ;  keep  the  stew-pan  covered.  When  half  done  take  it  up 
gash  it  over;  broil  slowly,  basting  frequently  with  a  sauce  made 
as  for  the  "Devilled  Steak."  Pour  over,  after  it  is  dished,  any 
sauce  that  remains.    Serve  hot. 


25f .  Pork  Steaks. — The  tenderloin  is  best  for  these.  Cut  them 
thin ;  pepper,  and  dust  lightly  with  flour.  They  require  longer 
broiliiig  than  any  other  fresh  meat,  and  are  not  good  unless  well 
done.  Sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  just  before  they  are  done. 
Rub  into  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
sage  ;  place  this  upon  a  hot  dish ;  lay  the  steak  upon  it;  turn  each 
piece  once;  cover  the  dish,  and  serve  immediately.  Fried  apples 
or  sweet  potatoes  are  good  eaten  with  port  steak.  The  aa^« 
tnay  be  omitted  if  not  relished. 


MA.  Pork  Sparerib — is  excellent  broiled.  Baste  constantly 
with  butter.  Very  few  persons  baste  it  sufficiently,  hence  it  if 
not  ^infrequently  brought  to  the  table  dry  and  tasteJ.ss.  It  re 
quire*  neither  gravy  nor  seasoning. 


L3S  MRS.    niLL8   NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

255.  To  Broil  Ham.— Cut  tfte  slices  thin  and  of  x  uniform 
aize.  Should  one  fart  be  thicker  ihan  another,  roll  the  thiei 
part  with  the  roll  ng-pin.  If  very  salt,  soak,  an  hour  at  least,  in 
tepid  water,  Broil  over  a  brisk  fire,  turning  almost  constantly 
VJttfD  done,  butter  and  pepper  well.  An  omelet,  or  eggs  cooke< 
n  »ome  wa] ,  should  always  &r~ompany  broiled  ham,  unless  whei 
ht  *J8  served  for  supper.     A  nice  breakfast  dish. 


256.  Broiled  Sweetbreads. — As  soon  as  taken  from  the  tnima1, 
lay  them  in  warm  water;  then  wash  them  well;  soak  until  th« 
blood  is  removed  ;  parboil  them  five  or  six  minutes ;  take  them 
up,  and  drop  them  in  cold  water ;  slice  them  ;  remove  all  strings 
and  gristle.  Broil  over  good  solid  coals;  turn  frequently. 
Have  a  few  slices  of  fresh  butter  upon  a  warm  dish ;  lay  the 
sweetbreads  upon  it;  turn  once.  Pepper  them  well,  and  serve 
immediately.     Oyster  sauce  is  an  elegant  accompaniment. 


257.  To  Broil  Chickens. — The  fowl  must  be  fat  and  young ;  no 
ether  kind  is  fit  for  the  gridiron.  After  it  is  picked,  open  it  by 
3utting  down  the  back;  remove  the  intestines;  wash  it  well; 
keep  it  at  least  twelve  hours,  if  the  weather  will  admit.  Warm 
and  grease  the  gridiron ;  lay  the  fowl  down  with  the  inside  next 
to  the  fire.  Have  a  small  oven  lid,  washed  upon  the  inside  per 
fectly  clean,  and  wiped  dry  until  it  will  not  smut ;  put  this  upon 
the  chicken;  weight  this  down  with  a  flat-iron.  Broil  slowly. 
When  done — and  it  is  seldom  well  done — pour  over  the  fowl 
melted  butter.  Stew  the  giblets  half  done ;  then  pepper  them 
ifell,  and  finish  upon  the  gridiror. 


268.  To  Smother  Fowls. — This  is  an  excellent  way  to  cook 
young  ducks,  turkeys  guinea  fowls,  etc.  Clean  the  fowl  as  in  the 
foregoing  receipt.  Dust  it  well  with  flour.  Put  it  in  a  shallow 
oven  or  stove-pan  ;  four  in  a  tumbler  of  warm  water:  cover  with 
an  oven  lid,  or  a  plate  if  cooked  in  the  stove.  As  soon  as  tht 
fcwl-is'warin,  begin  to  baste  with  fresh  good  butter ;  continue  tc 


MKAT8  138 

t>*0fo  frequently  until  it  is  nearly  done.  Fomove  the  ccvei  and 
brown  the  fowl.  Dredge  the  fowl  with  flour,  sprinkling  very  Uttl« 
into  the  gravy.  Cook  the  giblets  with  tLe  fowl ;  mince  them  ;  add 
to  the  gravy,  and  pour  over  the  fowl.  This  mode  of  cooking  ii 
between  baking  and  broiling,  and  is  a  more  satisfactory  process  thai 
plain  broiling.  Squirrels,  and  the  hind  legs  and  loins  of  rabbit* 
ire  good  cooked  in  this  way.     Serve  with  the  game  a  piquant  sauce. 


259.  To  Broil  Sty*abs,  Birds,  etc. — Squabs,  or  young  pigeons, 
Are  sometimes  objected  to  as  having  a  soft,  immature  taste. 
The  reason  of  this  oojection  is,  they  are  cooked  too  young. 
Their  finest  growth  is  wnen  they  are  just  full-feathered.  When 
they  are  in  pin  feather,  they  are  flabby;  when  they  are  full- 
grown,  and  have  flown  some  time,  they  are  tough.  It  is  a  good 
plan  to  mark  them  before,  chey  can  fly,  by  cutting  off  a  toe.  In 
that  way  their  age  can  be  kept.  Pick  them ;  open  them  upon  the 
back;  clean  and  wash  weH.  Broil  upon  a  clear  fire,  turning  fre- 
quently, and  each  time  bas*.i«g  with  butter.  Lay  toast  upon  the 
bottom  of  a  hot  covered  di^n  (a  chafing-dish  is  best) ;  melt  to- 
gether a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  into  which  has  been  stirred  half 
&  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a  wineglass  of  sweet  milk.  When  just 
ready  to  boil,  place  the  squabs  upon  the  toast,  and  pour  over  the 
sauce.  Cover  up  the  dish,  and  serve  immediately.  This  receipt 
will  answer  for  any  kind  of  small,  tender  bird.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce  or  catsup. 


200.  To  Barbecue  Any  Kind  of  Fresh  Meat. — Gash  the  meat 
Broil  slowly  over  a  solid  fire.  Baste  constantly  with  a  rmios 
composed  of  butter,  mustard,  red  and  black  pepper,  vu.egar 
Mix  these  in  a  pan,  and  set  it  where  the  sauce  w?"  keep  warm, 
not  hot.  Have  a  swab  made  by  tying  a  piece  of  clean,  soft  cloth 
upon  a  stick  about  a  foot  long ;  dip  this  in  the  sauce  and  bast« 
with  it.  Where  a  large  carcass  is  baibecued,  it  is  usual  to  dig  a 
pit  in  the  ground  outdoors,  and  lay  narrow  bars  of  wood  acrtnM. 
Very  early  in  the  morning  fill  the  pit  with  wood;  set  it  burn  ng 


I4C  mrs.  uill's  new  cook  book. 

and  in  this  way  heat  it  very  hot.  When  the  wood  has  burned  te 
coals,  lay  the  meat  over.  Should  the  fire  need  replenishing,  keep 
a  fire  outside  burning,  from  which  draw  oals,  and  scatter  evenly 
in  the  pit  under  the  meat.  Should  there  be  any  sauoe  left  pr.ui 
It  over  the  meat.  For  barbecuing  a  joint,  a  large  giidiic* 
ftiswers  well ;  it  needs  constant  attention ;  should  be  cooned 
•lowly  and  steadily. 


261.  Meat  Pies. — Considering  the  popularity  of  these  dishes, 
few  make  their  appearance  upon  the  table  unless  illy  prepared. 
In  nine  cases  out  often  they  are  either  tough  and  leathery,  or  so 
rich  that  it  is  beyond  the  capacity  of  a  stomach  of  good  powers 
to  digest.  The  top  crust  (usually)  is  hastily  baked,  scorched 
and  blistered  ;  the  bottom  crust  not  baked  at  ally  or  insufficiently, 
and  thoroughly  saturated  with  rich  gravy.  These  are  the 
extremes  ;  but  how  few  avoid  them  !  Where  the  meat  is  cooked 
in  the  pastry,  I  think  they  cannot,  under  any  kind  of  manage- 
ment, be  heathful,  particularly  for  children  and  dyspeptics;  but 
with  care  and  judgment  they  may  be  made  savoury  and  relishing. 

A  less  objectionable  way  of  preparing  them  is  to  bake  them  in 
a  mould ;  stew  the  flesh  or  fowl,  add  the  seasoning,  and  pour 
it  into  the  pastry  after  it  is  done.     For  instance  : — 


2G2.  An  Oyster  Pie. — Make  a  light  pufT paste  dough;  cover  it, 
and  set  it  in  a  cold  place  an  hour ;  line  a  drum-shaped  mould 
with  the  paste ;  brush  the  edge  next  to  the  bottom,  on  the  inside, 
with  the  white  of  an  egg;  lay  upon  the  bottom  a  piece  of  the 
dough  rolled  round  to  fit,  and  let  it  turn  up  half  an  inch  upon  the 
inside ;  press  it  against  the  sides  upon  which  the  white  of  the  egg 
is,  so  as  to  cement  them  together.  Lay  across  the  top  of  the 
mould,  crossed  in  different  directions,  large  broom  strawa, 
washed  clean.  This  will  support  the  lid,  and  prevent  its  falling 
j).  While  the  pastry  is  baking  get  the  oysters  ready;  put 
enough  to  fill  the  mould  in  a  stew-pan;  they  must  be  well 
oovered  with  their  own  liquor.     Grate  in  the  yolks  of  two  hard 


MEATS.  Ml 

Doiled   eggs;    rub  into    a    large  tab'espoonful  cf    ?re«h    I  uttei 

a  dessert-spoonful  of  Hour;  put  this  to  the  oysters.  Stew  five  01 
six  minutes,  or  until  the  o)  sters  begin  to  shrink  ,  add  a  wine- 
glass of  rich,  sweet  cream.  A- soon  as  the  mould  is  ready,  tak< 
eff  ike  top  crust;  remove  the  tAstry  from  the  mould,  and  put  a 
Id  a  handsome  circular,  deep  dish.  Pour  in  the  o)steis;  rep'aue 
Che  top  crust,  and  serve  hot.  If  left  standing  too  long,  th» 
bottom  crust  will  imbibe  so  much  of  the  gravy  as  to  make 
It  heavy  and  sodden.  Some  persons  like;  this  pie  seasoned  with 
mace — use  it  if  relished.  Instead  of  the  straws  to  support  the 
lid  of  the  mould,  slices  of  light  bread  are  sometimes  used  to  O 
\K  When  the  crust  is  done,  remove  the  bread  and  pound  it  fL.e 
for  soups,  puddings,  etc.,  etc.  Send  part  of  the  gravy  to  table  in 
*  gravy-boat,  using  only  enough  in  the  pie  to  moisten  the  meaf 
well. 


203.  Veal  and  Oyster  Pie. — Cut  thin  slices  of  veal  from  the 
neck;  stew  them  until  tender;  season  highly  with  pepper; 
salt  to  taste.  Put  the  oysters  in  a  separate  stew-pan;  add  a 
lump  of  butter  rolled  in  Hour.  Bake  the  crust  in  a  mould  as  for 
the  oyster  pie.  After  the  crust  is  baked  remove  it  from  the 
mould  ;  put  it  iu  a  deep  dish  to  suit  the  shape  of  the  mould  ;  put 
in  a  layer  of  veal  and  one  of  oysters,  repeating  until  all  are  in ; 
the  oysters  must  be  on  top.  Stir  into  the  gravy  (mix  the  two 
gravies)  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs;  let  it  stew  just  lung 
enough  to  take  off  the  raw  taste  of  the  egg;  pour  it  into  the  pie ; 
replace  the  lid,  and  serve  hot.  Chicken  and  oysters,  and  fish  and 
oysters,  are  used  together  for  pies,  and  are  much  relished ;  com- 
bine the  ingredients  and  seasoning  to  suit  the  taste ;  wine  and 
»tsup  may  be  used  in  the  gravy  if  liked.  The  whole  of  the 
jravy  should  not  be  served  in  the  pie ;  send  part  in  a  gravy 
boat.     Birds  stewed  and  seasoned  highly  are  good  fci  these  pies 


204    Chicken  Pie. — Cut  up  the  chicken  as  for  frying.     Stew  it 
gently  with  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  bait  until  the  fowl  *  nearlj 


142  MR8.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

done.  Boil  two  large  Irish  ptatoes  until  they  can  be  marhed 
smooth  (first  remove  the  skin) ;  work  to  the  potato  as  much 
flour  as  will  make  a  smooth  dougii ,  lay  this  aside  for  th(  dun  p- 
lings.  Make  the  crust  with  a  quart  of  flour,  t  teaspoc  nful  o) 
•rxla,  a  small  teacup  of  lard,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  butternut* 
enough  to  make  a  smooth  dough.  Roll  out  the  dough  for  the 
bottom  and  sides  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  line  a  deep  caithen 
dish  with  it.  Cut  the  pieces  intended  for  the  sides  in  long  strips 
(it  is  best  made  without  piecing) ;  put  them  around  carefully. 
Roll  a  circular  piece;  lay  this  on  the  bottom.  Lay  in  the 
chicken  carefully;  sprinkle  in  a  little  flour.  Cut  the  potato 
paste  in  strips  three  inches  square ;  put  in  a  layer  of  these. 
Hard-boiled  eggs  sliced,  or  cold  Irish  potatoes  sliced,  may  be 
laid  over  the  dumplings ;  then  another  layer  of  chicken,  dump- 
ings, <kc  When  the  dish  is  full,  take  some  of  the  broth  that 
the  chicken  was  stewed  in  and  melt  in  it  a  large  tablespoonfal 
of  butter ;  pour  over  the  chicken,  and  sprinkle  over  a  little  flour 
Roll  out  a  piece  of  the  dough  (or  if  it  is  wanted  extra  nice,  make 
the  upper  crust  of  puff  paste)  large  enough  to  cover  the  top  of 
the  dish ;  cut  it  round,  to  fit ;  notch  the  edge  in  any  tasteful 
way ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  centre,  and  bake,  without  blistering,  to  a 
light  brown  color.  Shallow  pies  are  very  good  made  in  soup 
plates  or  tin  pie  plates ;  may  be  kept  a  day  or  two  in  cook 
weather,  and  warmed  over. 


2G5.  Veal  or  Mutton  Steak  Pie. — Cut  the  steak  in  small 
pieces;  beat  it  gently,  and  stew  until  tender,  with  a  seasoning  of 
salt,  pepper,  and  (if  spice  is  liked)  half  a  grated  nutmeg.  Make 
the  crust  as  for  chicken  pie.  Line  the  earthen  dish  with  it ;  lay 
in  the  steak ;  sprinkle  over  with  flour,  and  lay  over  bits  of  butter. 
Cut  in  hard-baled  eggs  and  Irish  potatoes.  Pour  the  dish  three 
parts  fuL  of  the  broth  after  all  the  meat  is  in;  put  on  the  upper 
crust;  cut  a  slit  in  the  centre  that  the  steam  may  escape.  aLd 
bake. 

Venison  pie  made  in  the  same  way  is  very  good.     Pies  maj 


MEATS.  14) 

also  be  made  of  pork,  seasoned  with  onions ;  and  of  rabbiis  01 
squirrels.  These  should  all  be  boiled  until  tender;  put  in&ide  the 
crust  and  baked  or  stewed  until  the  meat  is  ready  to  fall  from 
the  bone ;  seasoned  highly  with  onions,  Irish  potatoes,  parsley 
marjoram,  tomatoes  with  a  little  sugar  stirred  to  thejL,  a  little 
mace  or  nutmeg,  if  liked,  and  catsup  or  wine.  Serve  in  a  "  vol 
insert,1  or  large  mould  made  of  light  puff  paste,  as  for  lh»> 
o\ster  pie — the  stew,  just  before  serving,  poured  into  it,  using 
very  'ittle gravy  in  the  pie,  sending  most  of  it  in  the  gravy-boat. 


266.  Rice  Chicken  Pie. — Cut  up  the  chicken  as  for  frying. 
Stew  it  with  the  giblets  (and  a  little  cold  ham  cut  up  fine)  until 
the  meat  will  leave  the  bones  easily.  Pick  off  the  meat  in  largo 
strips,  leaving  only  the  meat  on  the  small  part  of  the  pinions. 
Season  the  gravy  with  curry  powder,  or  highly  with  pepper,  » 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  an  onion  and  a  little  parsley,  if  thej 
are  liked.  Boil  a  pint  of  rice  with  a  little  salt ;  put  a  layer  a4. 
this;  then  all  of  the  chicken;  pour  in  the  gravy,  and  add  a  th:eli 
covering  of  the  rice.  (This  may  be  too  much  rice,  the  quantity 
will  depend  upon  the  size  of  the  fowl.)  Bake  half  an  hour,  cr 
less  time,  in  a  moderate  oven,  or  in  a  stove  not  too  hot.  For 
baking  this,  use  a  deep  earthen  dish,  and  send  to  the  table  in  it. 


267.  Pot  Pies  {"so-called") — Are  best  made  in  a  deep  oven, 
large  or  small,  to  suit  the  quantity  made.  Line  the  sides  with 
the  dough;  lay  the  meat  or  poultry  (or  they  may  be  used  to- 
gether) on  the  bottom  of  the  oven.  Never  put  pastry  at 
the  bottom,  and  it  is  best  to  stew  beforehand  the  meat  or 
poultry  to  be  used  until  half  done,  stewing  the  seasoning  with 
them ;  add  butter,  slice  in  raw  Irish  potatoes,  an  onion,  potato 
dumplings  by  the  receipt  given  for  dumplings  to  chicken  pie.  A 
few  mushrooms  may  be  added,  or  oysters.  The  seasoning  should 
be  varied.  The  mistress  of  the  house  need  be  at  no  loss  to  give 
variety  to  these  family  dishes.  A  raised  crust  made  with  butter 
miik  and  soda  makes  4,hc  most  healthful  pastry,  and,  when  inadi 


14*1  MRS.   hill'p  new  cook   book. 

with  very  little  handling,  is  very  good.  Potato  paste  is  alsa 
ver}  suitable.  When  the  meat,  gravy,  and  dumplings  are  all  in 
(the  oven  should  be  three  parts  full  of  broth),  sprinkle  in  flo  ir, 
aLd  lay  over  an  upper  crust  which  lacks  an  inch,  all  arourd,  M 
Uting.  When  the  pie  is  done,  take  off  the  top  crust  in  a  eJeap 
plate.  In  the  dish  in  which  the  pie  is  to  be  served,  lay  the  meat  j 
put  the  side  crusts  around,  and  lay  the  lid  or  upper  crust  over 
the  whole.  Send  the  gravy  to  the  table  in  a  sauce-boat  or  small 
tureen.  Fish  pies  are  good  made  in  this  way.  Only  large  fish 
are  used. 


208.  Calipash. — The  upper  shell  of  the  turtle  is  called  the  call 
l>ash — the  under,  the  calipee.  Scrape  the  meat  from  the  calipash ; 
immerse  the  latter  in  tepid  water ;  rub  and  wash  it  until  the  shell 
is  entirely  clean ;  wipe  it  dry ;  cover  the  inside  completely  with 
«  light  pufif  paste.  Take  enough  of  the  nicest  part  of  the  turtle 
(using  the  coarser  pieces  for  soup)  to  fill  the  shape;  put  this 
meat  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  mace,  or  any 
sweet  herb  used  in  cooking  which  may  be  preferred.  For 
pound  of  meat  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  fresh  butter ;  ruo 
into  it  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour  ;  drop  this  into  the  stew-pan  ; 
cover  with  cold  water.  Put  on  the  lid  of  the  stew-pan,  set  it  on 
the  stove  or  on  a  trivet  before  the  fire ;  stew  gently,  skimming  off  all 
impurities  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Add  a  wineglass  of  mush- 
room catsup  or  any  kind  preferred,  the  same  of  Sherry  wine.  Stir 
all  up  and  pour  into  the  shell  or  calipash.  Put  on  an  upper  ci  ust, 
making  it  large  enough  to  fit  exactly  ;  notch  it  around  tastily ; 
put  a  slit  in  the  centre.  Should  there  not  be  gravy  enough,  poui 
In  sufficient  boiling  water  to  answer.  Bake  a  light  brown.  Send 
lo  the  table  on  a  square  dish  to  fit,  as  nearly  as  can  be,  the  shell. 
VS  hen  well  arranged,  this  is  a  beautiful  as  well  as  savory  lish. 


260.  Irish  Potato  Pie. — Use  any  k  nd  of  cooked  meat ;  if  under 
done,  all  the  better.  Cut  in  slices,  thin  and  of  a  uniform  size; 
butter  each  piece  well ;  on  one  side  pepper  well.     Have  ready  a 


MEATS. 

quart  or  more  of  Irish  potatoes — the  quantity  must  dt»j  ?nd  t»)  the 
size  of  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  and  this  should  bo  an 
earthen  one.  Salt  and  stiain  the  potatoes  through  a  colander 
Put  a  layer  an  inch  thick  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish ;  lay  on  tl '» 
the  slices  of  meat,  then  small  bits  of  butter;  pour  in  a  tumble]  fill 
of  hi  Ah,  made  of  gravy  saved  with  the  fresh  cooked  moa*  of 
which  the  pie  is  male;  or  if  no  gravy  has  been  saved,  make  of 
the  trimmings  of  the  meat  as  much  as  may  be  needed,  and,  if  not 
rich  enough,  add  a  little  butter  ;  or  half  broth  and  the  rest  hot 
cream.  Put  on  a  top  crust  of  the  strained  potatoes.  Place  the 
dish  in  the  stove  or  oven  a  quarter  of  an  hour.     Serve  hot. 


270.  Salmagundi. — Roil  two  calf's  feet ;  take  the  feet  out  when 
done ;  reduce  the  broth  to  a  quart.  The  feet  may  be  fried  and 
used,  first  removing  the  bone.  Let  the  broth  become  cold  in  an 
earthen  vessel ;  scrape  off  all  the  grease ;  wipe  the  top  of  the  jelly 
with  a  coarse  towel ;  put  the  cake  of  jelly  into  a  kettle  lined  with 
tin  or  porcelain ;  season  it  with  two  lemons  cut  up  (removing 
the  seed),  fine  blades  of  mace,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  pepper  (white 
pepper  is  best),  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  to  a  froth  the  whites  of  six 
eggs ;  stir  these  to  the  jelly  just  as  it  melts  ;  it  must  then  be  left 
to  clarify  and  not  stirred  again.  When  it  simmers  long  onough 
to  look  clear  at  the  sides,  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag  before 
the  fire;  do  not  squeeze  the  bag.  Suspend  it  by  running  a  stick 
through  a  loop  made  by  tying  the  bag ;  rest  each  end  of  the  stick 
upon  a  chair,  and  throw  a  table-cloth  over  all  to  keep  out  the 
dust.  If  the  jelly  does  not  run  through  clear  the  first  time,  pour 
it  through  the  jelly-bag  again.     Set  this  aside. 

Prepare  the  meat  and  seasoning  for  the  pie,  Put  into  i  stew 
pan  slices  of  pickled  pork,  using  a  piece  of  pork  tour  inches 
iqunre  ;  if  it  is  very  salt,  lay  it  an  hour  in  tepid  water.  Cit  up 
two  young,  tender  chickens — a  terrapin,  if  it  is  oonvenient — two 
or  three  young  squirrels,  half  a  dozen  birds  or  squabs.  Stew 
them  gf  nt!y,  cutting  up  and  adding  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Roll 
into  half  a  pound  of  butter  two  tablespoonfuis  of  Hour  ;  add  thii 
I. 


146  Mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

to  the  stew ;  let  t  stew  until  the  meat  is  nearly  done.  Line  a  fire- 
proof dish,  or  two  fire-proof  dishes  (this  quantity  of  stew  wil  fill 
two  common-sized  or  quart  dishes  ;)  with  good  pastry  ;  mix  the 
different  kinds  of  meats;  put  in  Irish  potato  dumplings;  sc.taon 
fcc  taste ;  poiu  in  the  j*ravy  and  bake.  When  done,  remove  the 
upper  crust  when  the  pie  is  cold  and  pack  in  the  jelly,  heapiLg  the 
jelly  in  the  middle.  Return  the  crust  and  serve  cold  or  hot. 
The  jelly  will  prevent  them  becoming  too  dry.  They  are  good 
Christmas  pies  and  will  keep  several  days.  Very  little  gravy 
should  be  used,  and  that  rich.  Should  ihere  be  too  much,  leave  the 
stew-pan  open  until  reduced  sufficiently.  This  kind  of  pie  keeps 
well  if  made  in  deep  plates,  and  by  some  is  preferred  to  those  baked 
in  deep  moulds. 


271.  Meat  Puffs. — Roll  out  a  sheet  of  good  paste;  cut  it  into 
circular  pieces  by  pressing  upon  the  dough  with  a  saucer;  pass  a 
sharp  knife  round  the  saucer.  Lay  upon  the  half  of  each  circula: 
piece  a  spoonful  of  any  kind  of  meat,  poultry,  fish,  oysters,  lob- 
sters, clams,  etc.,  minced  fine,  and  seasoned  to  taste.  Wet  with 
wine  or  catsup ;  lay  over  the  other  half;  crimp  the  edges,  an<? 
bake  or  fry.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 


272.  Meat  Puddings. — These  may  be  made  of  any  kind  of 
scraps  of  fresh  meat — skin  or  gristle  will  not  answer.  A  pound 
of  meat  will  make  a  good-sized  pudding.  Chop  the  meat  in  very 
small  pieces ;  flour  them  well,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a 
iitUe  parsley  and  eschalot  minced  fine ;  form  it  into  a  ball,  using 
ft  Title  water  to  wet  up  the  meat  sufficiently  to  form  the  bull 
sprinkle  a  coat  of  flour  over,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  paste  In 
made.  Make  this  by  Receipt  No.  4  in  the  receipts  for  pastry. 
Roll  out  a  circular  piece  of  diugh  sufficiently  large  to  inclose  the 
ball ;  lay  the  meat  in  the  centre  of  the  dough,  and  carefully  and 
securely  close  the  edges,  lapping  them  as  little  as  possible 
Flour  a  pudding-cloth  well ;  inclose  the  lump  of  doug^i  in  it, 
allow iug  a  little  room  to  swell;  tie  it  carcful'y;  boil  briskly  m 


MEATS.  14? 

plcrty  of  hot  water  to  cover  it.  An  hour  of  steady  boiling  will 
suffice  for  a  pudding  containing  a  po  ind  of  meat  and  the  season 
ing.  Keep  the  vessel  covered.  When  done,  take  the  bag  oat, 
dip  it  m  cold  water,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dnh  exactly  suited  to  it-i 
sizi,  insist  upon  this,  having  seen  tie  pudding  brought  to 
table  ir.  a  diah  so  much  too  large  as  to  make  a  very  ridicu]ouf 
figure.  Ih's  leceipt  will  answer  for  any  kind  of  combinations  of 
meat,  head,  i.ugue,  oysters,  poultry,  liver,  kidneys,  ham,  etc.,  audj 
instead  of  forming  the  meat  into  a  ball,  roll  out  the  crust  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  thick ;  spread  the  meat  and  seasoning  over ;  rol) 
the  pudding;  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  closing  the  ends  well,  and  boil. 
Much  of  the  palatableness  of  this  dish  depends  upon  the  sauce. 
Let  it  be  rich,  and  well  seasoned.  Directions  are  given  in  the 
sauce  receipts. 


273.  Another  Style  of  Pudding. — Make  it  as  a  pie;  tie  a  cloth 
over  so  as  to  prevent  the  water  getting  in,  and  boil ;  or  boil  it  in 
a  mould ;  line  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  mould ;  add  the  meat, 
seasoning  to  taste;  cover  tight  with  a  wrell-fitting  cover;  boil  and 
turn  out.     Serve  with  drawn  butter. 


274.  Virginia  Chicken  Pudding. — Stew  two  young  chickens 
cut  up  as  for  frying ;  season  well  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  pars- 
ley, and  onion  shred  fine.  Make  a  batter  of  a  quart  of  milk,  six 
eggs  beaten  well ;  stir  to  the  eggs  smoothly  nine  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour;  thin  with  the  milk.  Take  the  chicken  from  the  stew-pan 
when  tender,  leaving  out  the  necks  ;  place  the  pieces  in  an  earthen 
dish;  pour  over  the  batter,  and  bake  until  the  pudding  is  firnt, 
It  should  not  be  suffered  to  stand  long  before  being  eaten,  or  it 
^ill  be  tough.  A  tureen  of  rich  sauce  should  accompany  it* 
using  as  much  of  the  broth  in  which  the  chicken  was  stewed  as  if 
needed  for  the  foundation  of  the  gravy ;  add  catsup  of  any  kind. 
Instead  of  chicken,  or  combined  with  chicken,  ousters,  beefsteak, 
V«*l,  ra  --ill}  kind  of  game,  may  bo  js.;d. 


148 


MRS.    HILL  8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 


275.  Potato  Pudding  with  Meat. — Boil  half  a  dozen  large  Iris! 
potatoeB ;  mash  them  through  a  colander  add  two  beaten  eggs 
butter,  and  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  season  highly  with  pcppci 
*nd  salt  Lay  slices  of  underdone  meat  upon  the  bottom  of  ar 
farther  dish  ;  pour  over  a  layer  of  the  batter,  then  meat,  until  the 
hsh  is  full,  having  the  batter  upon  the  top;  bake  a  light  brown 
/ery  little  cooking  is  necessary. 

276.  Pease  Pudding.— Soak  nice  white  peas  (of  the  kind  caller' 
Cornfield)  several  hours  in  plenty  of  water ;  tie  them  in  a  cloth 
allowing  room  to  swell;  boil;  when  tender,  turn  them  out;  masl 
them ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  tie  in  a  scalded  cloth  ;  boil 
half  an  hour.  From  time  immemorial  this  has  been  considered 
a  proper  accompaniment  to  boiled  pork. 

277.  Tomato  Meat  Pudding. — Cover  the  bottom  of  a  puddh  g- 
dish  with  bread  crumbs;  put  on  them  a  layer  of  underdone  meal 
cut  in  thin  slices,  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced  ;  tc 
a  pint  add  an  even  tablespoonful  of  sugar ;  then  a  few  bits  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  onion  if  agreeable ;  then  bread 
crumbs,  meat  and  tomatoes,  repeating  until  the  dish  is  full ;  put 
over  a  coat  of  bread  crumbs ;  bake  until  a  light  brown.     Serve  hot 


1.  Cheek;  2.  Neck;  3.  Shoulder,  having  Four  Ribs;  4.  Clod,  or  Fiom  Shoulder 
%.  Back  Shoulder ;  6.  Pore  Shin,  or  Leg:  7.  Rri?ket ;  «.  Flank;  9.  Standing  Rib*;  Ifc 
Wrloin  ;  11.  Sirloin  Steak;  12.  Rump;  13.  Round;  14.  Leg,  or  Hind  Sb*nk. 

278.  Beef. — The  head  is  good  stewed,  brilcd,  baked,  potted* 


MEATS.  148 

or  for  mince  pies.  To  clean  it,  without  removing  the  skin,  put 
ft  in  enough  iukcwarm  water  to  entirely  cover  it;  set  the  vessel 
where  it  will  boil  up  once,  just  enough  to  scald  the  head.  Take 
it  up;  scraps  it  well;  when  clean,  wash  and  wipe  dry ;  split  the 
lead  and  ]osr\  apart;  take  out  the  brains;  cleanse  the  inside  from 
11  coagulated  blood;  boil  head  and  brains.  Clean  the  feet  in  tht 
same  way. 

Another  way :  Sprinkle  powdered  rosin  over  the  whole  kead  ; 
scald  in  hot  water;  scrape  clean;  wash  and  soak  well. 

The  neck  is  stewed  or  used  for  soups.  The  ribs  rray  bo 
boiled,  or  boned,  stuffed  and  baked,  or  roasted.  Shin  for  soup. 
(Take  out  the  marrow  before  cooking,  and  siew,  strain,  and  flavor 
it  for  hair  grease.)  FL^k  is  good  collared.  The  sirloin  is  to 
oe  baked  or  roasted.  The  best  steaks,  called  "  Porter-house" 
steaks,  are  cut  from  the  sirloin,  using  the  ribs  for  soup.  The 
tenderloin  makes  excellent  steak.  Rump  may  be  used  for 
steak,  or  be  roasted,  baked,  daubed,  made  a-la-mode,  or  corned. 
Round  is  used  in  the  same  way.  The  heart  is  good  stuffed  and 
baked,  or  roasted,  and  boiled  makes  excellent  mince-meat.  The 
liver  and  sweetbreads  may  be  baked,  fried,  stewed,  and,  with  the 
addition  of  a  few  oysters,  make  good  pies  and  puddings.  All 
bones,  gristle,  and  scraps  maybe  boiled,  with  a  seasoning  of  herbs 
ind  spices,  to  a  jelly ;  then  cut  into  small  pieces,  dried,  and  used 
in  making  soup ;  when  prepared  in  this  way  it  is  called  "  Portable 
Soup."  In  the  hands  of  an  economical,  good  manager,  almost 
e^ary  part  of  the  animal  may  be  turned  to  good  account. 

As  soon  as  the  animal  is  cleaned  and  the  intestines  removed 
(all  the  fat  upon  them  should  be  saved),  let  the  tripe  receive  imme- 
diate attention,  and  the  head  and  feet  be  cleaned.  As  soon  as  the  ani 
inal  is  quartered,  cut  out  the  kidneys ;  hang  the  meat  as  leng  as  it 
will  keep  without  salting;  wipe  it  dry.  When  cut  up,  put  iht 
steak  in  a  bag;  suspend  it;  salt  the  meat,  and  cover,  to  protrcl 
from  flies;  sprinkle  over  the  top  pieces  black  pepper  beater  h^a, 
*nd  salt.  Lay  over  branches  of  pine  top  ;  a  part  may  be  je.fced, 
pickled  or  dried.   TV  best  beef  has  a  bright  red  color ;  the  fat  w\  it* 


150  Mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

the  ^rain  coarse,  and  yielding  readily  to  the  pressure  of  the  fingei 
Reef  is  hi  perfection  when  atmit  four  years  old.  The  age  of  the 
animal  may  be  ascertained  by  feeling  the  bone  that  runs  through 
the  ribs.  If  a  four  year  old,  the  bone  will  be  soft  and  tender  ;  it 
grows  harder  with  age.  Stall-fed  beef  is  much  esteemed  ;  allow 
the  ox  (generally  an  old  one)  to  become  poor,  then  fatten  it  well 
Says  M.  Soyer:  "The  best  plan  to  judge  of  the  flavor  is  to  look 
at  the  tongue ;  if  it  is  plump,  and  has  a  clean,  bright  appearance, 
and  the  fat  at  the  end  is  of  a  pinkish  white,  then  the  meat  will 
turn  out  good ;  but  if  the  tongue  should  look  dark,  and  the  fat 
dead  white,  then  the  meat  will  eat  hard  and  flavorless.  Co"\  er 
the  raw  side  of  the  hide  with  ashes,  and  send  it  to  the  tanner. 


279.  To  Corn  Beef  for  Winter  Use. — Prepare  the  brine  the 
6rst  of  November.  Get  a  thirty  gallon  cask  ;  let  it  be  tight  and 
3lean;  put  into  it  fifteen  quarts  of  salt,  fifteen  gallons  of  cold 
water,  one  pound  of  pulverized  saltpetre,  and  to  every  gallon  of 
water  an  ounce  of  carbonate  of  soda;  stir  well  and  frequently 
antil  the  salt  is  dissolved ;  remove  all  scum.  Keep  the  vessel 
well  covered  with  a  coarse  cloth,  and  in  a  cool  place.  This  may 
be  made  a  week  or  two  before  it  is  needed.  The  animal  being 
well  fattened,  kill  it  upon  a  cold  day.  Hang  it  two  days  without 
salt ;  on  the  third  cut  it  up ;  salt  it,  fleshy  side  down,  in  a  tub  that 
will  let  out  the  bloody  brine.  Let  it  remain  (well  covered)  tea 
days.  Unpack  it  upon  a  cold  day ;  wipe  each  piece,  and  add  tt 
the  brine.  Put  a  weight  upon  the  meat  to  keep  it  under  the 
brine.  In  a  wee*  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  Skim  the  brine  occa- 
sionally. If  it  becomes  at  all  sour,  pour  it  off  and  boil,  adding  a 
Sittle  aalt  and  soda,  skimming  well.  Keep  the  cask  in  a  cool,  dry 
place,  well  covered.  Tongues  and  mutton  hams  may  be  put  in 
this  brine. 


280.  T)  Pich'e  a  Hundred  Pounds  of  Beef  or  Pork.S'ix  gal 
Ions  of  water,  nine  pounds  o^  salt,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar 
o»»e  quart  of  molasses,  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  three  ounces  o/ 


MEATS. 


15i 


red  pepper,  one  ounce  of  potash.  Boil  and  skim  well ;  fet  it  gel 
cold.  Let  the  beef  hang  twenty-four  hours  after  being  kill(  d  ;  salt 
it  two  days;  let  the  bloody  brine  run  o(T;  wipe  each  piece  with  a 
damp  cloth;  pack  it  i:*  a  cask  ;  put  weights  upon  it;  pour  cvei 
the  brine.  In  five  or  six  weeks  re-bon;  skim  well,  and  when  col" 
pour  over  the  meat.  It  should  be  entirely  covered  with  brine 
ind  -i  cloth  kept  over  it.  If  pork  is  intended  for  bacon,  hang  it  to 
BiuoKc  for  three  or  tour  weeks,  the  time  depending  upon  the  siz«* 

281.  Spiced  Beef. — Mske  a  brine  with  half  a  pound  of  salt, 
half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful 
of  cloves,  the  same  of  allspice  and  black  pepper;  crack  the  spice 
(do  not  beat  it) ;  boil  five  minutes  in  a  pint  of  water  ;  when  cold,  rub 
it  upon  ten  pounds  of  beef.  Turn  it  every  day  for  two  weeks. 
When  ready  for  use,  bake  it  in  a  deep  dish;  pour  in  the  brine; 
to  which  add  two  tumblers  of  water ;  cover  over  the  top  with  suet 
or  slices  of  cold  fat  bacon.    Let  die  meat  become  cold  in  the  brine. 


282.  To  Dry  Pickle  Beef  ur  Pork. — Sixteen  quarts  of  salt, 
three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  for  every  hundred  pounds  of  meat. 
After  the  meat  has  hung  and  dripped  until  all  the  animal  heat  is 
gone,  cut  it  into  proper  pieces;  rub  each  piece  well  with  salt; 
sprinkle  salt  on  the  bottom  of  a  water-tight  cask ;  pack  in  a  layer 
of  meat  edgewise;  take  a  maul  and  beat  it  down  well;  sprinkle 
over  evenly  a  little  saltpetre;  fill  all  the  interstices  with  salt; 
continue  this  until  all  the  meat  is  packed  in  very  solidly  ;  cover 
two  or  three  inches  on  the  top  with  salt;  put  a  weight  on  the  top 
of  the  meat ;  throw  a  cloth  over,  <  r  put  on  a  good  wooden  top, 
And  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Meat  pickled  in  this  way  necdt 
fery  little  soaking  before  boiling,  and,  if  the  directions  are  fol 
lowed,  will  be  found  to  keep  well. 

283.  To  Cure  Beef  Hams  for  Winter  Use. — After  the  beef 
has  hung  long  enough  for  the  meat  to  be  tender,  cut  the  hams  from 
the  hind  quarter  ;  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  out  the  bone.  Mix  on« 
quart  of  good  salt,  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  ounce  of 


152  mrb.  hill's  new  cook  door. 

*  jilt  pet  re;  lay  this  thickly  over  the  inside  of  the  hams.  Thej 
should  then  be  rolled  by  a  strong  hand,  and  firmly  wrapped  with 
a  strong  twine  string,  beginning  at  the  hock  ;  salt  well  upon  the 
outside;  put  them  upon  a  dish  (they  should  not  lie  upon  wood)  j 
cover  with  a  thin  cloth  ;  turn  every  day  for  ten  days ;  then  sua 
fend  them  in  the  smoke-house,  and  smoke  slightly.  1<  ->r  cooking, 
cut  the  slices  thin,  and  broil.  They  will  be  found  excellent.  If 
the  last  of  the  meat  becomes  dry,  use  it  for  chipping. 


284.  To  Terk  Beef. — Slice  pieces  from  the  round,  or  fleshy  part^ 
two  inches  thick.  Make  a  scaffold  in  the  open  air,  where  the 
rays  of  the  sun  will  tall  directly  upon  the  meat.  The  scaffold 
should  not  be  covered  with  solid  plank,  but  with  narrow  strips 
of  wood.  Dip  the  pieces  of  meat  in  salt  and  water ;  lay  them 
upon  the  scaffold,  and  smoke.  Be  careful  the  fire  does  not  blaze. 
The  flies  must  be  brushed  away  constantly.  Turn  it  frequently; 
or  it  may  be  jerked  without  smoking,  merely  exposing  the  meat 
to  the  sun  when  the  weather  is  warm  and  dry.  When  the  out- 
side of  the  meat  hardens,  string  it,  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 
Always  trim  off  the  hard  outside  skin  before  cooking.  Besides 
being  broiled,  it  may  be  boiled  or  stewed.  When  hard,  lay  it  in 
tepid  water  half  an  hour  before  broiling.  It  is  not  necessary  to 
4o  this  when  cooked  in  either  of  the  other  ways. 


285.  To  Clarify  Suet. — Cut  as  much  of  the  kidney  suet  as  is 
wanted  for  culinary  purposes ;  remove  all  the  thin  membrane 
that  covers  it;  wash  it;  put  it  in  a  gravy-kettle  or  well 
tinned  stew-pan ;  simmer  slowly,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
its  burning.  When  the  suet  is  dissolved,  and  the  cracklings 
float  on  the  top,  it  is  done;  strain  it  into  an  earthen  dish;  when 
cool,  pack  away  in  jars ;  cover  from  the  air ;  when  used,  shave 
rery  thin  with  a  sharp  knife.  Suet  may  also  be  kept  a  few 
weeks  by  rolling  it  in  flour,  and  protecting  it  from  dust  and  air, 
Tht  tallow  is  made  by  the  first  receipt,  using  all  the  grease  u»u* 
the  intestines  and  every  part  of  the  animal 


MEATS.  If>8 

28C.   To  Clarify  and  Harden  Taliotr. — Melt  ten  pounds  of  tat 
kow  and  two  of'  beeswax  together.     Have  ready  two  gallons  of 
tx  <dng  aater ;  as  soon  as  the  tallow  melts  pour  over  it  the  boi'd 
ing  water;  let  tliis  boil  two  hours;  remove  the  pot  from  the  fire 
In  another  pot  put  four  pounds  of  alum ;  pour  upon  it  three  gal 
tons  of  water.     When  the  tallow  becomes  cold  take  it  up ;  sciap* 
i-tT  8\.j  &e<liment  upon  the  bottom  of  the  cake,  and  put  it  in  tba 
%\rn  uater.     Boil  eight  hours  steadily;  skim  off  all  impurities; 
replenish,  if  necessary,  with  hot  water.     Let  the  tallow  cool,  and 
if  not  satisfactorily  white,  add  more  alum  to  the  water — about 
two  pounds — and  re-boil  it.     I  have  seen  candles  made  in  this 
way — the   tallow    re-boiled    twice — equal    to    the    adamantine. 
Make  the  wicks  of   soft  twisted  thread;  they  burn  brighter  if 
dipped  in  turpentine,  and  dried  well. 


287.  Confederate  Candles. — To  two  pounds  of  tallow  add  a 
teacup  of  strong  lye  (from  hickory  or  ash  ashes) ;  simmer  over  a 
slow  fire,  when  a  greasy  scum  will  float  on  top ;  skim  this  off  aa 
long  as  it  rises ;  this  grease  will  make  soap.  Mould  your  can- 
dles as  usual. 


288.  To  Make  a  Clieap  Sick  Room  Taper. — Into  a  saucer  half 
full  of  lard  insert  a  piece  of  newspaper  made  of  a  sugar-loaf  shape 
by  cutting  a  small  square  and  twisting  it  around  the  fing?r  ;  put 
the  broad  end  ia  the  lard  ;  let  the  taper  end  be  an  inch  above  the 
lard.  Another  way  :  Put  a  sycamore  ball  in  a  saucer  of  melted 
lard  ;  when  completely  saturated,  light  it.  Another:  Tie  a  piece. 
of  soft  cloth  over  a  large  button,  leaving  an  inch  or  two  (.  f  the 
*Ivith  aboxe  the  button  for  a  wick  ;  put  it  in  a  saucer;  half  Ml  with 
laid,  aid  light  \tm 

These  little  scraps  of  information,  though  very  simple,  art 
*<>rtli  jiatheiinii  up,  as  persons  are  sometimes  unexpectedly 
jplated  in  circumstances  which  render  them  valuable. 


(54  MRS.    HILL  S    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 


1.  \4Abl,  beet  efcd;  2.  _roin,  chump  end;  3.  Fillet;  4  Hind  Knuckle;  5.  ?«« 
IfttjpuXlo;  6.  Neck,  best  end;  7.  Neck,  scrag  end;  8.  Blade  Bone;  9.  Breast  beat 
•ad ;  10.  Breast. 

289.  Veal. — The  loin  is  the  best  piece  for  roasting ;  the  fillet  is 
stuffed  and  roasted ;  steaks,  cutlets,  collaps,  etc.,  are  taken  from 
the  fillet  or  thigh ;  chops  from  the  neck,  best  end ;  the  shanks 
for  soup  ;  the  remaining  pieces  may  be  stewed  or  used  for  pies, 
ragouts  and  force-meat  balls ;  the  head  is  good  stewed,  potted, 
Daked  or  boiled ;  stuff  and  bake  the  heart,  or  boil  and  use  for 
mince  pies.  The  liver  and  sweetbreads  of  the  calf  are  much  more 
delicate  than  when  the  animal  is  older.  Boil  the  feet;  make  jelly 
of  the  liquor ;  fry,  fricassee  or  stew  the  meat.  Make  tripe  of  the 
stomach;  bake  or  stew  the  tongue.  Veal  of  itself  is  an  insipid 
meat,  but,  well  seasoned,  is  not  only  very  delicate  and  agreeable 
to  the  palate,  but  pleasant  to  the  eye.  The  calf  should  be  fat- 
tened upon  the  mother's  milk,  and  killed  when  ten  weeks  or  three 
months  old,  and  when  in  perfect  condition  for  the  table,  the  grain 
will  be  close  and  firm,  ths  flesh  a  delicate  red,  and  the  tat  white ; 
the  kidneys  should  be  covered  with  white,  thick  fat;  the  liver 
firm,  and  free  from  spots.  Always  hang  the  meat,  and  wipe  it 
dry  every  day  with  a  coarse  cloth.  It  taints  easily  if  permitted 
to  rest  upon  wood  and  never  turned  or  wiped. 


290.  To  Prepare  Rennet. — A  rennet  is  the  Stomach  of  a  calf, 
prepared  in  this  way:  Empty  the  stomach  as  soon  as  the  animal 
is  killed  ;  wipe  it  dry  upon  the  inside;  sprinkle  salt  over  it;  iel 
it  lie  five  days;  then  shake  off  the  salt;  stretch  it,  and  dry  it 
A  piece  three  inches  square  will   turn  a  quart  of  sweet  milk 


MEATS.  155 

Wash  the  rennet;  soak  in  a  teacup  of  tepid  water  an  hour;  pour 
the  water  to  the  milk;  stir  well;  set  in  a  warm  place  until  the 
curds  form.  Make  custards  in  this  way  :  One  quart  of  new  milk. 
half  a  pint  of  cream  ;  prepare  the  rennet  as  directed  ;  a<Id  to 
the  milk  and  cream  mixed,  stirring  well ;  flavor  with  wii  e* 
sweeten  to  taste;  grate  in  a  nutmeg.  Pour  in  custard  3iipa  ;  stf 
tear  the  fire  until  the  curd  is  firm ;  then  set  on  ice  or  m  a  ood 
place.  t  The  rennet  should  be  very  slightly  washed. 


1.  Leg ;   2.  Shoulder ;   3.  Loin,  best  end ;   4.  Chnmp  end ;   5.  Neck,  beat  end ;  4 
Breast ;  7.  Scrag  end. 

291.  Mutton. — A  saddle  of  mutton  is  two  loins.  The  leg  and 
loin  are  considered  the  best  pieces.  The  leg  may  be  boiled, 
baked  or  roasted ;  the  loin  is  usually  baked  or  roasted.  The 
shoulder  may  be  baked  or  roasted,  or  separate  the  blade- bone 
from  the  ribs  and  grill,  or  broil  the  blade-bone;  broil,  fry  or 
stew  the  ribs.  The  neck  affords  several  savory  dishes ;  cut 
chops  from  the  best  end  ;  spice  and  bake  as  mock  venison  ;  use  for 
logouts,  stews,  etc.  Use  the  shanks  and  scrags  for  soup.  Mutton 
hams  are  fine  pickled  a  few  days,  then  slightly  smoked  and  used 
for  broiling.  Mutton  is  in  the  greatest  perfection  at  four  years 
old.  Ths  grain  should  be  firm,  but  tender  to  the  touch,  of  a 
d  irk,  clear  red,  the  fat  firm  and  white.  Mutton  suet  is  useful  for 
aiauy  purposes.  Save  all  the  surplus  fat ;  stew  it;  strain  fron. 
the  cracklings ;  pour  it  into  bf.wls  to  cool,  and  pack  it.  away  closely. 


292.  Lamb. — A   lamb  is  usually  divided   into  four  quarters, 
which  may   be  boiled,   baked   or   roasted.     The  fore-qua  ter  is 


150  MRS.    HILL  8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

sometimes  divided,  using  the  ribs  for  chops,  and  grill  the  shoulder 
blade;  the  pluck  consists  of  the  heart,  liver  and  lights;  the  lrj 
is  composed  of  the  bowels,  sw^t.breads  and  kernels ;  the  head  ii 
good  stewed  or  boiled  ;  the  broth  of  it  makes  good  s<»up.  Some 
\ery  thrifty,  economical  housewives  use  the  feet  of  the  sheep, 
jailed  "trotters" — the  liquor  in  which  they  are  boiled  makes  s 
beautiful  amber-colored  jelly.  Lambs  should  be  killed  aheft 
four  or  five  months  old,  and  weigh  from  twenty  »  thirty  pouaii 
Save  the  suet. 


293.  Venison. — The  shoulder  should  be  roasted,  or  used  for 
Btews,  puddings  and  pies ;  the  neck  for  steak  or  stews ;  the 
haunch  roasted  or  baked ;  the  scrag  and  shins  for  soup.  Buck 
venison  is  best.  If  young,  the  cleft  in  the  hoof  will  be  small  and 
smooth;  if  old,  large  and  rough.  "The  Hit  should  be  white,  the 
lean  very  ruddy."     The  hams  are  good  dried  and  chipped. 


1.  Ham;   S.  Side  or  Middling ;   3.  Shoulder;   4.  Chine  or  Backbone;  5.  Head  ani 
Jowl. 

204.  Pork. — The  hams  and  shoulders  are  salted  and  smoked ; 
the  sides  pickled  or  smoked.  The  chine  is  the  part  of  the  back- 
bone that  lies  next  the  head.  It  is  usual  to  cut  out  the  back- 
bone whole,  and  then  separate  them  before  cooking.  The  chint 
h  baked,  boiled  or  stewed  ;  the  smaller  bones  stewed  or  boiled. 
It  is  best  to  take  the  ribs  from  the  sides,  and  b^oil,  bake,  or  roast 
them;  the  feet  are  good  soused;  the  small  intestines  used  foi 
chitterlings ;  the  liver  fried  or  broiled ;  the  harslet  stewed  ;  th« 
head  and  ears  made  into  cheese  or  scrafrle;  the  jowl  salted  and 
tmokfd ;  the  ungues  sa'ted  and  boiled,  as    beef  tongues.     Broii 


MEATS.  15"? 

01  fry  the  kidneys,  first  passing  a  wire  through  to  prevent  their 
curling;  the  brains  ma)  be  fried  with  eggs,  or  pickled  to  imitate 
oysters.  The  fat  must  be  taken  from  the  intestines,  and  thai 
which  is  in  a  sound,  healthy  condition,  must  be  put  to  soak  to  con 
Fertit  into  lard.  The  poorer  part"  w»e  for  soap,  or  stew  and  keep 
f;r  greasing  wagons  and  other  plantation  purposes. 


21*5.  To  Try  the  Fat. — The  lard  for  cooking  is  made  from  the 
leaf  fat,  the  fat  from  the  chine,  head  and  trimmings  of  the  joints, 
etc..  Wash  it  well,  and  soak  twelve  hours  ;  if  put  to  soak  in  the 
evening  let  it  remain  until  next  morning;  wash  it  in  tepid  water, 
cnanging  it  twice;  cut  it  in  small  pieces;  pour  a  little  water  in 
the  bottom  of  the  kettle  to  prevent  the  fat  from  scorching  (very 
little  water  is  necessary)  ;  cut  in  small  pieces;  boil  briskly  until 
the  oil  from  the  meat  is  nearly  extracted,  and  the  process  almost 
completed  ;  then  reduce  the  fire;  stir  frequently,  turning  the  meat 
up  from  the  bottom ;  when  done,  the  cracklings  will  be  a  good 
brown,  and  float  to  the  top  and  break  crisp.  Great  care  must  be 
taken  after  the  oil  begins  to  look  clear,  to  prevent  its  burning 
(the  least  taste  of  that  kind  will  injure  its  quality)  ;  at  the  same 
time  the  cracklings  must  be  thoroughly  done,  the  water  entirely 
evaporated,  or  the  lard  will  turn  sour.  Strain  first  through  a 
colander,  pressing  the  oil  out ;  then  place  a  muslin  or  other  thin 
cloth  over  the  mouth  of  the  jar,  and  strain  again.  To  prevent 
the  jars  breaking  in  very  cold  weather  from  the  freezing  of  the 
lard,  put  a  stick  as  large  as  a  man's  wrist  through  the  centre  of 
th*  lard  just  as  it  begins  to  harden.  When  cold,  withdraw  the 
sticks;  use  seasoned  wood — pine  will  not  aLswer.  Stoneware 
answers  better  on  some  accounts  for  keeping  lard  than  tin. 
When  jars  are  emptied,  have  them  scalded  and  sunned  imme- 
diately; repeat  this  just  before  using  them  again.  A  little  lye 
will  aid  the  cleansing.  The  lard  from  the  intestines  must  be  wv,lj 
soaked,  washed  and  kept  separate,  and  boiled  by  itself.  By  nice, 
caieful  management  It  may  be  made  to  answer  for  frying  meats. 
6i*ve  the  on  from  the  feet;  clai  ify  aud  buttle  it.     When  jelly  in  U 


158  MRS.    IIILl/s    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

be  made  of  the  liquor  the  feet  wvre  boiled  in,  there  must  not  c* 
any  salt  about  them.  The  trimmings  of  the  backbones,  joints  and 
tenderloins  are  used  for  sausages.  There  should  be  a  pound  of 
fat  to  two  of  lean.  Never  use  leaf  fat ;  in  sausages  it  runs  to 
gra  vy  when  cooked,  leaving  the  m^at  (*~:y  and  lean. 


296.  To  Cure  Bacon. — The  first  requisite  in  making  good 
bacon  is,  that  the  hogs  be  in  good  condition ;  then,  that  they 
should  be  killed  when  the  wind  sets  decidedly  in  the  north;  take 
advantage  of  the  beginning  of  the  cold  weather;  never  kill  upon 
the  wane  or  decrease  of  the  cold.  After  the  animal  is  slaughtered, 
it  should  immediately  be  put  in  a  vessel  containing  sufficient  hot 
water  to  scald  it  well;  turn  once;  scald  the  feet.  It  is  possible 
to  have  the  water  too  hot ;  extremes  must  be  avoided.  A  scaf- 
fold, or  platform  made  of  plank,  poles  or  rails,  should  be  in 
readiness  to  receive  the  animal  as  soon  as  it  is  withdrawn  from 
the  water;  then  the  scraping  must  be  begun,  taking  care  not  to 
ttit  the  skin ;  pour  over,  from  time  to  time,  hot  water ;  a  great 
ieal  of  scraping  and  washing  is  necessary  to  clean  the  skin  as  it 
should  be.  Always  scrape  and  clean  the  feet,  head  and  ears,  at 
the  same  time  the  hog  is  cleaned.  When  in  proper  condition, 
hang  it;  remove  the  intestines;  wash  every  part  well,  using 
several  waters  ;  repeat  this  until  the  inside  is  entirely  clean;  wipe 
with  coarse,  clean  cloths.  Let  the  hogs  hang  in  the  open  air  until 
all  are  slaughtered  and  cleaned.  The  intestines  should  be  re- 
ceived in  tubs,  put  in  charge  of  careful  hands.  The  fat  must  be 
first  saved,  and  put  to  soak  ;  the  intestines  intenied  for  sausage 
ca»es  and  chitterlings  should  be  emptied  and  cleansed;  the 
taxation  emptied,  washed,  and  stewed  for  soap-grease;  the  maws 
arc  u%ed  for  chitterlings;  spread  a  little  lime  upon  the  inside  c* 
those  intended  for  chitterlings ;  after  lying  a  few  hours,  scrape  and 
«oak  t!>3m.  A  little  lime  rubbed  upon  the  inside  of  the  articles 
us  3d  for  chitterlings  and  tripe  cleanses  them  much  sooner,  ana 
gives  a  much  better  flavor  than  mere  scraping  and  soaking. 


MEATS  ]  f)9 

297.  To  Cut  vp  the  Hoc,. —  1 1,  move  the  head;  split  the  jowi 
and  upper  part  asunder  ;  take  out  the  brains  and  tongue ;  cut  out 
the  backbone.  Divide  the  remainder  of  the  hog  into  six  parts— 
the  shoulders,  middlings  and  hams.  Round  the  hams;  use  tht 
frimmings  of  the  joints  and  the  tenderloins  for  sausages.  Jn  iie 
under  side  of  the  hams  the  bone  slightly  projects  ;  saw  this  even, 
with  the  meat;  it  is  of  no  advantage  to  the  ham,  and  a  good 
hiding-place  for  skippers.  Remove  the  spareribs  from  the 
middlings.  Spread  the  meat  until  all  animal  heat  ii»  ott,  first 
sprinkling  it  over  with  salt. 


298.  To  Salt  Pork. — Have  suitable  tables  or  platforms  rcady  ; 
begin  the  salting  by  giving  the  shank  end  of  each  joint  a  smart  rap 
upon  the  table,  so  as  to  loosen  the  joint ;  work  the  hock  back- 
wards and  forwards  to  ascertain  if  this  is  done.  The  advantages 
>f  th'S  is,  the  salt  penetrates  sooner.  Rub  the  salt  in  well;  pack 
i  boxes  or  pits  dug  in  the  dirt  floor  of  the  smoke-house  five  or 
x  feet  deep;  line  the  pits  with  plank;  the  plank  should  be  at 
least  a  foot  above  the  surface  of  the  ground;  cover  the  bottom 
with  salt;  pack  the  joints  as  soon  as  they  are  properly  prepared, 
skin  side  down.  When  saltpetre  is  used,  apply  it  by  taking  a 
pinch  between  the  finger  and  thumb,  and  sprinkling  evenly  over 
the  joints  after  they  are  salted,  and  before  packing.  Between 
each  row  of  meat  pack  in  salt,  and  when  the  last  is  in,  cover  well 
with  salt,  and  then  with  fresh  pine  tops.  If  hogsheads  are  used 
foi  packing  the  meat,  bury  them  in  the  ground  to  about  a  foot 
of  .he  top.  In  four  weeks  the  meat  will  be  ready  for  hanging 
It  should  be  taken  up  on  a  cold,  windy  day.  Shake  off  the  salt  | 
wash  the  hams  as  expeditiously  as  possible ;  hang  the  meat,  hock 
dewn;  smoke  several  hours  each  day  until  cured.  The  best 
plan  for  smoking  is  to  have  a  furnace  upon  the  outside,  and 
attached  to  the  smoke-house,  a  flue  conducting  the  e^oke  inside. 
The  smoking  is  an  important  matter;  meat  is  often  spoiled  from 
being  over-heated  when  the  fire  is  made  inside.  When  the  fire  is 
made  inside,  dig  a  pit  two  feet  deep;  make  the  fire  In  the  befc 


4  60  MRS.    HILL'S    NEW    COOK    BOOK 

lorn  ;  clean  it  out  each  clay.  Joints  should  never  re  hung  imm^ 
diately  over  the  pit,  as  the  fire  often  blazes;  and  the  smoke  a 
warmer  as  it  first  rises  from  the  pit.  A  little  red  pepper  thrown 
upon  the  fire,  or  a  few  dry  China  berries,  will  drive  off  the  flies. 
When  sufficiently  smoked,  put  the  hams  into  bags  made  jf  thick 
Dsnaburgs;  tie  them  securely;  whitewash  the  outside  with  a 
paste  made  of  lime;  hang  immediately,  hock  side  d:>wn.  Tka 
remainder  of  the  meat  may  be  hung  or  packed  away  in  ashes ; 
if  permitted  to  hang,  there  is  some  loss  from  dripping.  If  there 
is  reason  to  fear  the  joints  are  tainted,  run  a  sharp  knife  into  the 
meat  at  the  hock-bone;  if  an  unpleasant  odor  is  perceived,  the 
meat  is  not  doing  well.  A  friend  who  is  remarkably  successful 
in  curing  bacon,  tender,  juicy,  and  of  fine  flavor,  furnishes  me 
the  following  receipt  for  curing  hams :  "  Cut  and  round  the  hams 
6moothly ;  salt,  and  rub  well ;  pack  down ;  and  the  first  favora- 
ble weather,  after  eight  or  ten  days,  take  the  joints  up  and  re-salt 
them ;  in  three  or  four  weeks  hang  them  and  smoke  gently.  To 
protect  them  from  insects,  as  soon  as  they  are  sufficiently  smoked, 
put  them  imo  sacks,  and  lime  the  sacks."  After  the  meat  is 
taken  up  to  smoke,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  sprinkle  the  inside  of 
each  ham  immediately  after  being  washed  with  pulverized  black 
pepper,  to  protect  them  from  flies.  The  skipper-fly  usually  makes 
its  appearance  the  last  of  February  or  early  in  March,  according 
as  the  weather  is  more  or  less  cold.  It  is  very  desirable  to  smoke 
and  pack  the  meat  away  before  that  time.  Sugar  is  sometime! 
used  in  curing  meat — a  pound  to  two  pounds  of  salt,  or  a  pint  Ot 
•yrup  to  two  pounds  of  salt. 


•J9i>.  To  Cure  Hams. — Spread  upon  each  ham  the  following 
in.xture,  and  let  them  remain  until  the  next  day :  One  small 
apoonful  saltpetre,  one  large  spoonful  of  sugar,  one  large  spconful 
of  molasses,  a  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper,  rubbed  well  together* 
then  salt  down  and  pack  away  as  you  do  other  meat.  This  is  * 
good  plan  in  localities  where  there  is  very  little  cold  weather. 


MEATS.  HU 

800.  To  Preserve  Hathsby  Packing  in  Ashe*.—  Mike  a  scaffold 
around  the  inside  of  the  smoke-house ;  put  as  many  tiers  as  may 
be  needed,  making  them  of  very  narrow  strips  of  plank,  so  that 
when  the  hams  are  placed  upon  them,  they  will  be  support**) 
only  at  the  ends  and  in  the  middle,  with  space  between  (w,'>  »••■ 
/>  allow  a  free  circulation  of  air.  Covor  each  ham  well  with  dry 
leached  ashes;  place  upon  the  thin  strips  of  plank,  skin-Bid* 
down.  When  hogs  are  killed  late  in  the  season,  before  the 
meat  is  sufficiently  smoked,  and  the  skipper-fly  begins  to  make 
its  appearance,  take  the  joints  down;  ash  them  well ;  hang  again, 
and  complete  the  smoking ;  then  lay  away,  well  ashed,  upon  the 
tiers.  There  is  no  better  plan  for  those  who  like  meat  preserved 
in  ashes. 


301.  To  Pot  Meat. — This  is  an  economical  way  of  using 
up  scraps  of  cold  meat,  fowls,  or  fish.  Cut  up  all  the  meat, 
separating  it  carefully  from  the  bones ;  scrape  off  any  gravy  or 
hard  skin  that  may  remain  after  being  cut  or  picked  up.  Gravy 
or  stuffing  would  make  the  meat  sour  if  kept  over  two  or  three 
days.  Different  meats  may  be  potted  together.  First  grind  the 
meat  by  running  it  through  a  sausage  mill.  Pick  out  all  the 
gristle;  then  pound  it  in  a  marble  or  wooden  mortar,  moistening 
it  from  time  to  time  with  clarified  butter,  adding  any  spice  or 
herbs  required  for  seasoning.  It  should  be  well  beaten.  Dr. 
Kitchiner,  who  recommends  meats  prepared  in  this  way  for  in- 
valids and  persons  of  weak  digestive  powers,  says:  "There  is  no 
grease  so  good  to  use  in  the  pounding  as  '  elbow  grease.' " 
When  reduced  to  a  smooth  paste,  pack  in  small  jars;  cover  an 
rich  with  clarified  butter ;  tie  a  bladder  or  oilcloth  ov€t;  kexp  iu 
a  dry,  cool  place. 

302.  To  Clarify  Butter  for  Potting. — Simmer  jhe  butle? 
gently  in  an  open  vessel;  when  the  water  has  evaporated  (which 
may  be  krown  by  the  bubbling  ceasing)  take  it  off  the  fire,  and 
U?\  it  remain  undisturbed  half  an  hour;   the  curj  will  settle  af 


]  5*2  MR8.    HILl  S    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

the  bottom.  Bottle  and  ecrk  tightly,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place 
Butter  prepared  in  this  way  will  keep  well,  and  is  valuable  foi 
enriching  stews,  hashes,  etc.  Will  make  good  cake  ard  pastry. 
Potted  meats  should  always  be  put  cold  in  the  jars,  and  packed 
frmly. 

303.  Tc  Pot  Calf  s  Head.— After  the  head  is  well  cleared, 
UV  tag  off  *,hc  skin,  nose,  and  ears ;  put  it  to  boil  with  two  of  the 
fen  which  have  been  well  cleaned.  Boil  until  tender;  remove  the 
pifces  from  the  liquor;  when  cold,  scrape  off  all  grease  that  may 
rulhere;  take  out  all  bones;  put  the  meat  back  into  the  pot  with 
the  herbs  intended  for  seasoning,  and  enough  of  the  liquor  to 
cover  the  meat,  after  skimming  off  the  grease  that  floats  on  the 
top;  boil  half  an  hour.  Take  up  the  meat  in  a  clean  colander; 
let  the  liquor  drain  until  the  meat  is  dry  and  culd.  Run  through 
the  sausage  mill ;  then  pound  in  a  marble  or  wooden  mortar,  add 
iing  the  spices  and  a  little  clarified  butter  from  time  to  time. 
When  a  smooth  paste  is  formed,  pack  in  a  mould ;  cover  so  as  to 
exclude  the  air ;  mix  the  spices ;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  a 
whole  teaspoonful  of  mace,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  one  and  a  half 
of  pepper  to  one  pound  of  meat,  salt  to  taste.  Serve  with 
pickle.  If  the  meat  does  not  turn  out  well,  wrap  a  hot  towel 
around  the  sides  of  the  mould,  or  set  a  minute  or  two  before  the 
fire,  turning  it.  Potted  meats  are  excellent  for  sandwiches. 
Use  the  broth  for  soup. 

304.  To  Pot  Ham  and  Tongue. — Beat  together  well  a  pound 
each  of  cold  lean  ham  and  tongue ;  season  with  spices,  if  liked. 
When  a  smooth  paste,  pack  in  jars,  by  the  foregoing  receipts. 
Fowls,  fish,  with  a  little  lean  ham  or  tongue  added,  may  all  U 
potted.  Suit  the  taste  in  making  the  combinations  as  well  as  it* 
leleoting  the  seasonings.  Two  ounces  of  clarified  butter  will  be 
the  proper  quantity  for  one  pound  of  meat,  unless  the  meat  is 
very  rich ;  then  less  butter  should  be  used.  It  is  convenient  to 
iave  these  made  dishes  on  hand,  as,  in  case  of  having  company 


HEATS. 


10* 


unexpectedly,  additions  may  easily  be  made  to  lunch,  dinner,  or 
supper. 


305  Veal  Salad. — Boil  a.  hock  of  veal  for  soup,  when  thoi* 
ouglilv  done,  take  up  the  hock ;  pick  the  meat  from  the  bonea^ 
*nd  season  as  for  chicken  salad.     A  nice  supper  dish. 

Oysters  minced  fine  and  dressed  as  a  salad  are  good. 


305 J.  Chuken  Sandwich. — Boil  done,  and  skin;  pull  off  th* 
meat,  keep  white  and  dark  separate.  Chop  and  season.  Put  in 
a  mould  ;  alternately  white  and  daik  meat.     When  cold,  slice. 


300.  To  Collar  Meat. — This  is  done  by  picking  the  meat  into 
•mall  strips;  while  hot,  spread  layers  upon  the  bottom  of  a  pan ; 
sprinkle  over  mixed  spices;  fill  the  vessel  with  alternate  lay  en 
of  meat  and  spices ;  put  on  weights  sufficient  to  press  the  meat 
into  a  solid  cake.  When  cold,  to  be  eaten  with  pickle,  lemon- 
ehow,  etc. 


307.  To  Collar  Flanks  of  Beef.SaU  the  two  flanks ;  sprinkle 
over  a  little  saltpetre :  turn  them  every  day  for  eight  or  ten  days 
(if  the  woather  is  cold  enough).  At  the  end  of  this  time  wash  the 
meat  well ;  boil  it  until  tender.  Have  ready  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  pounded  and  sifted  cloves,  the  same  of  allspice,  one  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  cinnamon  and  mace.  When  the  meat  is  tender,  take 
it  up  and  pick  it  to  pieces  as  expeditiously  as  possible,  removing 
the  skin  and  gristle.  Put  a  layer  of  the  meat  (mixing  the  fat  and 
lean  judiciously)  on  the  bottom  of  a  pan ;  sprinkle  over  pepper 
and  the  mixed  spices  evenly.  When  the  meat  and  seasoning  la 
all  in,  put  a  sheet  of  tin  or  a  piece  of  board  that  will  not  give  it 
a  disagreeable  taste.  Place  weights  upon  the  board,  and  let  it 
remain  until  the  meat  is  perfectly  cold.  Serve  wilil  pickle. 
Another  way  is  to  boil  the  flanks;  spread  them  out;  trim  ofT  the 
fat  wheu  there  is  too  much;  remove  all  skin  and  gristle  ;  spread 


164  MRS.    hill's  new  cook  book. 

over  the  spices  and  pepper,  and,  beginning  at  one  end,  roll 
tightly ;  wrap  with  tape;  put  under  weights ;  when  cold  trim  the 
edges ;  garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

308.  To  Collar  a  Leg  of  Pork. — Take  out  the^bone ;  stuff  with 
mixture  composed  of  two  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sage,  one 
teaspooniul  of  pounded  mace,  one  nutmeg  grated  fine,  a  dozen 
cloves,  the  same  of  allspice,  a  teaspooniul  of  cinnamon,  salt  to 
taste,  a  tablespoonful  of  pepper,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  one  tum- 
bler of  fine  bread  crumbs ;  mix  well ;  spread  evenly  on  the  inside 
of  the  pork.  Wrap  it  to  look  as  nearly  as  possible  as  it  did 
before  the  bone  was  removed.  Tie  it  tightly  with  tape;  put  it  in 
ft  pan  with  a  little  water,  Bake  two  hours.  Press  it  by  placing 
weights  upon  it*    To  be  aatei:  cold. 


SAUCES,  STUFFINGS,  AND  GRAVIES. 

14  Tmc  most  homely  fare  may  be  made  relishing,  and  the  mot 
#«cellcnt  and  independent  improved  by  a  well-made  sauce." 

Upon  many  tables  the  only  gravy  which  makes  its  appearance 
?ji  the  grease  or  drippings  from  the  meat,  thickened  with  a  paste  of 
water  and  flour,  or  the  pure  unadulterated  grease  minus  the  thick- 
ening. I  earnestly  advise  all  housewives  to  make  themselves 
familiar  with  the  art  of  preparing  different  kinds  of  sauces.  1 
have  seei  the  character  of  poor  steak,  joints,  and  puddings  in  part 
redeemed  by  a  well  selected,  well  prepared  sauce. 


309.  White  Sauces  for  Boiled  Meats  or  Poultry — Egg  Sauce. — 
Rub  together  smoothly  a  large  tablespoonful  heaped  with  good 
butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour.  Pour  into  the  stew-pan  a  turn 
bier  of  fresh  sweet  milk ;  set  this  upon  the  stove  or  upon  a  trivet, 
rith  a  shovelful  of  fire  under.  Drop  in  the  butter  as  soon  aa 
4he  milk  boils  up;  shake  the  stew-pan.  As  soon  as  the  butter 
jne.ts,  pour  in  a  tumbler  of  sweet  cream  ;  only  keep  upon  the 
fire  long  enough  to  scald  the  cream.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of 
four  or  five  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  up  ;  the  whites  of  two ;  stir  into 
the  sauce  just  before  pouring  into  the  tureen ;  salt  if  needed. 
This  preparation  may  be  poured  over  boiled  meats  or  poultry, 
sending  a  part  of  it  to  the  table  in  a  boat  or  tureen.  Double  the 
receipt  if  necessary. 

310.  Celery  Sauce. — Boil  the  white  parts  of  six  stalks  of  celery 
(first  cutting  them  in  small  pieces)  in  two  tumblerfuls  of  the  broth 
the  meat  was  boiled  in,  or  any  pale  broth  (veal  is  best),  or  boil- 
ing water  alone  will  answer.  Add  salt  to  taste;  cover  the  stew- 
pan  and  let  it  sinmer  gently  until  tender.  Rub  a  heaped 
teaspoouful  of  flour  into  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg ; 
itraiu  the  water  from  the  celery  upon  this.     Remove  the  celery 


166 

from  the  stew-pan,  wipe  it  out,  re! urn  the  broth,  add  a  tumbler 
of  sweet  cream  or  rich  fresh  milk;  let  this  simmer  geitly  five 
minutes,  and  serve.  When  fresh  celery  cannot  be  ol  tainod,  u*i 
the  extract  or  the  seeds  bruised ;  tie  them  in  a  thin  muslin  cloth 
that  they  may  be  easily  removed. 


311.  Lemon  Sauce. — Make  the  sauce  in  the  same  wsy  *s  the 
selery,  boiling  the  peel  of  the  lemon  until  sufficient  flavor  is  im- 
parted ;  add  enough  of  the  juice  to  make  a  pleasant  acid,  just  before 
serving.  Cauliflower  may  be  used  instead  of  the  lemon,  for 
variety. 


312.  Oyster  Sauce. — A  tumblerful  of  oysters  j  strain  thn 
n^uor,  pick  out  all  the  shells.  Put  the  liquor  in  a  stew-p^n  with 
one  yjr  two  blades  of  mace ;  salt  to  taste.  To  a  piece  of  bufter  as 
larg*  *ts  a  hen's  egg,  rub  a  teaspoonful  of  flour ;  add  this  to  the 
liquor  with  a  tumblerful  of  sweet  cream  or  milk.  When  this1  is 
just  re*vty  to  boil,  put  in  the  oysters,  first  mincing  them.  Sim- 
mer  gem-.y  until  the  oysters  are  well  scalded,  and  pour  into  a 
gravy  tureen.  When  made  of  canned  oysters,  stew  entirely  ir 
milk  or  a  pa.e  broth. 

313.  Caper  Sauce. — Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  into 
which  two  teast»oonfuls  of  flour  has  been  rubbed  ;  add  two  turn 
blcrs  of  sweet  mi\k,  or  half  water  (all  milk  is  best).  Add  six  or 
eight  tablespooufuk  of  capers. 

Mock  caper  sauce  is  made  by  adding  pickles  cut  up ;  radish 
pods  or  nasturtions  av«  good  as  substitutesjbr  capers. 


314    Caper  Sauce,  No  2. — Make  two  tumblerfuls  of  thin  pap 
boil  it  until  it  looks  transparent;  add  to  this  a  tumblerful  of  but 
^er,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  capers  strained  from  their  lie  lor.     IV.ii 
part  over  the  meat ;  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  tureen. 

Egg  sauce  is  made  in  this  way,  adding  them  bo..ed  hard  and 
out  up  fine. 


BArCES,    STUFFINGS,    AND    GRAVIES.  1(»J 

815.  Onion  Sauce. — Slice  two  medh  m-sized  white  onions;  lay 
them  in  water  ten  minutes.  Boil  them  soft  in  clear  water  ;  pour 
ofT  this  water,  and  add  as  much  sweet  milk  as  is  needed  for  the 
tauce.  Rub  to  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  a  teaspoonful  of  Hour ; 
vlJ  this  to  the  <  nion  and  milk.  Shake  the  stew-pan  well  w  hilt 
t  is  simmering,  which  should  be  from  five  to  six  minutes.  Sa't 
-ii  taste.     Strain  and  serve  hot  in  a  gravy-boat  or  tureen. 


316.  Mushroom  Sauce. — W;ish  and  pick  a  pint  of  mushrooms; 
rub  them  with  salt,  and  immediately  throw  into  cold  water. 
When  all  are  cleansed,  put  them  to  boil  in  a  covered  stew-pan, 
with  sweet  milk  or  pale  broth ;  salt  to  taste.  When  the  mush- 
rooms are  tender,  strain  the  liquor  from  them ;  wipe  out  tho 
stew-pan  and  pour  back  the  liquor.  Add  butter,  with  a  little 
flour  rubbed  into  the  butter.     Stew  until  thick  enough. 


317.  Parsley  Sauce. — Boil  three  sprigs  of  parsley  in  a  tum- 
blerful of  water  ten  minutes.  Pick  off  the  leaves,  chop  them 
fine,  and  salt  to  taste.  Wipe  out  the  stew-pan,  return  the  water 
and  add  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of  sweet  milk.  Make  a  paste  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a  little  cold  sweet  milk ;  when  the  mill 
boils,  stir  in  the  paste.  Add  a  tumblerful  of  good  fresh  buttei, 
then  stir  in  gradually  the  minced  parsley. 


318.  Sauce  for  Fish. — Scrape  fine  the  yolks  of  two  hard* 
boiled  eggs;  pepper,  salt,  mustard,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sali.d 
oil,  three  of  vinegar,  one  of  tomato  catsup. 


SIP  Wine  Sauce  for  Venison  or  Game. — Put  a  tumbler  of  hoi 
fMtcr  or  pale  broth  into  a  stew-pan;  stir  to  it  two  tablespoon  full 
of  fine  bread  crumbs,  one  teacup  of  butter,  the  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  and  a  blade  of  mace;  let  these  simmer  five  or  six  minutes. 
Slir  into  a  teacup  of  Por*  wine  a  dessert-spoonful  of  loaf  sugar; 
pc»or  this  into  the  stew-pan,  shake  it  round,  and  as  soon  as  the 


168  MRS.    niLLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

wine  is  hot,  pour  it  into  a  tureen.  Serve  hot.  A  litt.c  acid  jehj 
put  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen  before  pouring  in  the  s^uce,  ntd 
thou  stirred  ,;ato  it  well,  is  an  improvement. 


320.  A  hrench  Fish  Sauce. — Beat  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs; 
**son  them  with  salt,  pepper,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar 
icald  it ;  stir  well ;  add  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon.  Add  slowly 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  olive  oil,  stirring  constantly  until  well 
mixed.  Add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  or  vinegar,  to  make  a 
piquant  sauce.     Color  green  with  spinach  juice. 


32  .  Sauce  for  foiled  Fowls. — Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  add 
to  it  a  tumbler  of  melted  butter,  one  wineglass  of , sweet  cream; 
stew  five  minutes.  Season  any  way  liked.  This  makes  a  nice 
sauce  for  pork  chops,  if  seasoned  with  sage. 


322.  Bread  Sauce.- —A  tumbler  of  bread  crumbs;  pour  over 
them  two  tumblers  of  boiling  milk  or  pale  veal  broth.  Let  this 
stand  until  the  bread  has  absorbed  the  gravy ;  stew  five  minutes. 
Make  it  sufficiently  rich  with  butter;  season  in  any  way  liked; 
salt  to  taste. 


323.  Dr.  Kitckiner's  Receipt  for  White  Sauce. — Cut  in  small 
pieces  two  pounds  of  lean  veal  and  half  a  pound  of  ham.  Melt 
two  ounces  of  butter ;  let  all  simmer  until  the  meat  almost  sticks. 
(Great  attention  must  be  paid  to  prever  ,t  its  sticking ;  should  it 
occur  it  will  spoil  the  stock.)  Make  i  paste,  using  three  table 
spoonfuls  of  flour  ani  sufficient  water;  stir  this  into  the  stew-pan, 
and  &dd  three  pints  Df  hot  water  or  hot  broth.  Stir  all  well  to- 
gether, and  continue  to  stir  frequently.  Cover  the  stew-pan,  and 
set  it  upon  a  corner  of  the  stove  where  it  will  boil  gently  two 
hours.  Season  with  an  onion  cut  up  fine,  twelve  grains  of  all- 
spice,  the  same  of  cloves,  two  blades  of  mace,  bla  jk  pepper,  a 
little  red  pepper,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  thyme  When  th«j 
or*»th  is  reduced  to  a  quart,  skim  off  the  fat;  strain  the  broth 


SAUCES,    STUFFINGS,    AM)    GRAVIES.  IdO 

•nd  keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  When  ready  for  use.  add  a  pint  of 
sweet  cream,  and  simmer  until  thick  enough.  Pour  part  over 
the  meat;  send  the  remainder  to  table  in  a  tureen. 


324.  To  Make  Sauce  to  Pour  over  Boiled  Fowls  or  Meat. —  On* 
}  tut  of  fresh  sweet  milk  ;  stir  to  it  slowly  a  pint  of  boiling  water; 
rub  to  two  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  butter  two  even  teaspoonfuli 
of  flour;  put  this  to  the  milk.  Stew  it  until  of  the  consistence 
of  cream,  shaking  the  stew-pan  frequently.  Season  with  salt  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  If  a  whiter  sauce  is  preferred,  use  more 
milk.  If  it  is  preferred  to  have  it  colored,  beat  up  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs ;  pour  the  sauce  to  them  slowly,  beating  and  stirring 
rapidly.  Put  the  stew-pan  on  the  stove  long  enough  to  take  ofF 
the  raw  taste  of  the  egg ;  one  or  two  minutes  will  suffice.  Pour 
a  part  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat  as  a  veil ;  season  the  rest  in 
any  way  liked,  and  send  in  a  tureen. 


325.  Brown  Sauces — Tomato  Sauce. — Skin  a  tumblerful  of 
tomatoes ;  chop  them  fine  ;  cut  up  a  small  silver-skinned  onion  ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar.  Put 
»hese  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  a  wineglass  of  water ;  stew 
gently  an  hour,  keeping  the  stew-pan  covered  ;  shake  it  frequently. 
Just  before  serving,  stir  in  two  eggs  beaten  several  minutes. 


326.  Lobster  Sauce. — Boil  the  lobster  very  well  done  ;  mines 
the  meat;  take  out  the  coral  and  eggs,  and  pound  them  in  &  mor 
tar  (the  coral  gives  a  fine  red  color  to  the  sauce).  Rub  to  the 
ocral  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Put  a  pint  of  the  broth 
in  which  the  lobster  was  boiled  in  a  stew-pan;  thicken  it  with  a 
paste  made  of  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Let  this  simmer 
two  or  three  minutes  ;  add  as  much  meat  of  the  lobster  minced 
as  is  required ;  let  all  heat  well,  and  add  the  butter  just  before 
serving.  The  fine  red  coloi  of  the  coral  will  be  lost  if  it  boils, 
Use  hen  lobsters  for  sauce. 
8 


I/O  MR8.    HILL'S    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

327.  Sauce  for  Lobster. — Mash  fine  the  yolks  of  two  hard 
brnlod  ejjgs,  a  tablespoon  Ail  of  water  and  the  coral  of  the  lobster 
a  teaspoonfui  of  made  mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil, 
atd  five  of  vinegar.     Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 


328  Sauce  of  Ancl.ovies,  Shrimps,  or  Clams. — Rub  into  a  turn 
aler  of  butter  a  teaspoonful  of  flour ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Put  a  tumbler  of  water  in  the  stew-pan ;  add  the  butter  and  sea 
soiling;  simmer  five  minutes.  Add  the  meat  of  anchovies, 
shrimps,  or  clams. 


329.  Mint  Sauce. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  mint  chopped 
fine,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  dis- 
solved in  the  vinegar.     Serve  with  roast  lamb  or  chops. 


330.  Apple  Sauce. — Stew  or  bake  acid  apples;  when  done, 
mash  and  strain  them.  To  a  pint  add  a  small  piece  of  butter; 
sweeten  to  taste ;  grate  over  it  a  little  nutmeg ;  serve  with  pig, 
goose,  or  ducks.  Dried  apples  and  peaches  stewed,  and  sweet, 
ened  and  seasoned  with  lemon  or  orange  peel,  or  nutmeg,  makes 
a  good  accompaniment  to  fresh  meats.  Stewed  cranberries  make 
a  superior  sauce  for  meats  or  poultry. 


331.  Horseradish  Sauce. — One  teacup  of  grated  horseradish 
one  wineglass  of  good  cider  vinegar,  into  whicn  has  been  dissolved 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  loaf  sugar,  the  same  of  mustard,  a  teaspoon- 
fill  of  salt;  stir  this  to  the  horseradish.  Serve  with  hot  or  cold 
meats. 


332.  Mustard  Sauce. — Stir  to  a  teacup  of  vinegar  a  teaspooa 
ful  of  mustard,  one  of  salt,  two  of  loaf  sugar  pulverized,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter;  put  all  into  a  stew-pan,  and  let  it  simmer 
until  boiling  hot.  Beat  in  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  stir  the 
vinegar  to  them,  stirring  sbwiy  and  constantly.  Return  th* 
mixture  tc  the  tire,  and  when  boiling  hot,  pour  into  a  tureen  a 


SAUCES,    SVUFFIVOS,    AND    GRAVIES.  171 

lene.  This  is  a  good  sauce  for  broiled  meats,  hashes,  rag-outs, 
or  game.  If  fresh  olive  oil  is  bsed  instead  of  butter,  thi*  make* 
%i    excellent  sauce  for  salad,  or  coia  slaw. 


333.  Pickle  Sauce. — Into  a  t'imblcrful  of  melted  butter  stir  • 
Urge  tablespoonf'l  of  chopped  mustard  pickle,  with  a  tablespocr 
fill  of  the  vinegar;  stir  three  miiutes,  or  until  thoroughly  hjt. 


334.  Curry  Sauce. — Add  to  a  pint  of  broth  or  melted  butter 
an  even  tablespoonful  of  curr^  powder;  wet  into  a  paste  with 
cold  water ;  or  boil  in  the  broth  an  apple  or  an  onion  cut  up ; 
when  soft  enough  to  mash  fine,  strain ;  wipe  out  the  stew-pan ; 
return  to  the  stew-pan,  and  add  the  curry  powder;  simmer  two 
minutes.  Parboil  the  onion  before  adding  it  to  the  broth ;  this 
is  more  delicate  than  to  add  it  raw. 


335.  Sauce  for  Barbecues. — Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter;  stir 
into  it  a  large  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  red 
pepper,  one  of  black,  salt  to  taste;  add  vinegar  until  the  sauce 
has  a  strong  acid  taste.  The  quantity  of  vinegar  will  depend 
upon  the  stroigth  of  it.  As  soon  as  the  meat  becomes  hot,  begin 
to  baste,  and  continue  basting  frequently  until  it  is  done;  pour 
over  the  meat  any  sauce  that  remains. 


33G.  Sauce  for  Steaks,  Chop.*,  and  Fried  Chicken. — After  tin? 
Bteak  is  sufficiently  fried,  take  it  up  on  a  hot  dish;  set  it  covered 
where  it  will  keep  warm  ;  strain  the  grease  in  which  it  was  fried ; 
return  only  a  tablespoonful  to  the  pan;  if  liked,  a  little  onion 
may  be  cut  up, and  added;  fry  a  golden  color, stirring  frequently. 
For  a  pound  of  meat,  use  a  large  tal  lespoonful  of  butter;  put  this 
Into  the  frying-pan ;  sprinkle  in  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  flour,  stir- 
ring it  to  a  smooth  paste;  pour  in  a  tumblerful  of  hot  <vaterj 
stir  it  well ;  shake  the  pan  and  let  it  simmer  until  of  the  con- 
sistence of  cream 


172 

337.  Brown  Sauce. — Cut  up  a  tumblerful  of  led  onions;  fry 
it  in  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter;  sprinkle  to  the  butter  an 
even  tablespoonful  of  flour  (browned),  making  a  smooth  paste. 
Be  careful  the  butter  does  not  burn ;  that  would  ruin  the  flavor 
of  the  sauce;  pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  or  broth.  Let  this 
timmor  until  it  thickens  slightly.  When  water  is  used,  mor 
butter  13  required  than  for  broth;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
Put  in  the  tureen  a  large  tablespoonful  of  French  mustard  ;  no 
Other  mustard  will  answer  the  purpose  so  wrell ;  pour  upon  thia 
the  sauce,  mixing  well.  Onions,  when  used  in  sauces  or  gravies, 
are  more  delicate  to  be  parboiled  one  or  two  minutes;  this  is 
necessary  when  using  the  red  onion.  The  white  has  a  more  deli 
f-ate  flavor. 


338.  Brown  Onion  Sauce  — Fry  the  onion.  Into  another 
frying-pan  put  a  few  slices  of  ham  or  any  kind  of  meat,  adding  to 
jt  a  teaspoonful  of  lard.  Let  it  fry  until  brown,  turning  fre- 
quently to  prevent  its  scorching ;  when  a  dark  color,  pour  over 
the  meat  a  tumbler  of  hot  water ;  stir  it  until  it  is  well  mixed 
with  the  meat ;  add  this  to  the  onion ;  stew  two  or  three  minutes ; 
strain,  and  mix  with  it  an  even  tablespoonful  of  French  mustard, 
<&*  a  wineglass  of  catsup  or  Port  wine. 

The  trimmings  of  any  kind  of  fresh  meat,  or  any  good  bones 
cracked,  may  be  boiled,  and  the  broth  used  for  gravy,  sauces,  or 
soup ;  also  essence  of  ham,  the  top  of  the  pot  skimmed  and 
drained,  and  remains  of  gravy  should  be  carefully  saved  in  ov 
•»rsd  earthen  vessels,  kept  in  a  cool  place, and  used  to  aid  gravies, 
or  for  the  soup-kettle.     "  Wilful  waste  makes  woeful  want." 


339  Browning  for  Sauces. — The  flour  used  for  tniCKering 
»hov1d  be  spread  upon  the  bottom  of  a  tin  pan,  placed  upon  tho 
•tove ;  stir  constantly  until  of  a  good  brown  color.  Keep  ft  in  a 
tin  dredging-box  ready  for,  use.  Sugar  may  also  be  used.  Dr. 
K itchiness  receipt  for  preparing  this  is  :  "Take  half  a  pound  of 
pulverized  loaf  sugar;  add  to  it  a  wii  eglass  of  cold  water;  put 


SAUCES,  STUFFINGS,  AND  CRAVIA^.  173 

this  into  a  staw-pan ;  simmer  slow Iy>  stirring  constantly  with  a 
vooden  or  silver  spoon  until  o^a  light  brown  color,  and  it  begins 
to  smoke,  add  to  it  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  dilute  it  with  wat<?r  until 
it  is  of  the  consistence  of  cream.  _et  it  boil ;  take  off  the  acurn^ 
id  bottle  it.  To  make  a  small  quantity  for  immediate  use,  put 
teaspoonful  of  pulverized  loaf  sugar  in  a  large  iron  spoon,  with 
f.s  i  iuch  water  as  will  dissolve  it;  hold  it  over  a  hot  fire  until  it 
is  a  dark  brown  color.  Use  for  browning  soups  and  sauces.  Mil 
it  well  with  a  tumblerful  of  broth  before  adding  to  the  soups  or 
sauces. 


340.  Plain  Gravy  for  Boast  Meat. — Take  up  a  tumblerful  of 
the  gravy ;  set  it  aside ;  when  cool,  remove  the  cake  of  grease. 
Put  the  gravy  in  a  stew-pan;  set  it  on  the  fire;  dissolve  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  browned  sugar  in  half  a  tumbler  of  the  gravy. 
It  should  be  hot ;  if  there  is  not  sufficient  extra  gravy  for  this,  use 
hot  water ;  pour  this  to  the  gravy  in  the  stew-pan  ;  let  it  simmer 
five  minutes.  If  a  richer  gravy  is  preferred,  add  as  much  as  is 
liked  of  the  solid  grease  which  was  removed  ;  unless  the  plates 
are  hot  this  will  congeal,  and  look  like  tallow.  The  unseasoned 
taste  of  roast  or  baked  meat  gravies  are  generally  preferred. 
Catsups  or  mustards  may  be  added  upon  the  plate. 


341.  Gravy,  No.  2. — Put  into  a  stew-pan  an  even  tablespoon 
fill  of  hard  butter ;  when  it  melts,  stir  to  it  slowly  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  flour;  when  well  mixed,  add  a  little  of  the  gravy  slowly, 
stirring  well ;  then  more  gravy,  until  a  tumblerful  is  stirred  in  ; 
simmer  five  minutes  ;  skim  off  the  fat  as  it  rises.  It  will  prob- 
ably be  too  rich. 

342.  To  Make  Gravy  for  Ham. — When  the  ham  is  sufficiently 
cooked,  remove  it  immediately  from  the  frying-pan.  To  a  tumbler 
of  gravy  sprinkle  in  slowly,  mixing  smoothly  with  the  gravy,  s 
teaspoonful  of  flour;  pour  in  half  a  tumbler  of  boiling  water; 
shake  the  pan  well  j  let  it  simmer  a  minute  ;  pour  in  a  gravj  boat. 


1/4  MRS     HILL6    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

343  Beef  Steak  Qravy — Is  made  in  the  same  way  when  \m 
Bleak  is  well  rolled  in  flour ;  less  flour  is  required  in  making  tin 
gravy.  When  onions  are  used,  fust  slice,  and  pour  boiling  water 
over  i/liem  ;  let  them  stand  five  minutes;  drain  the  water  ft om 
them;  fry  a  light  brown  color  in  the  gravy,  before  adding  the 
thickening;  withdraw  them  before  dredging  in  the  flour. 

344.  Qravy  that  will  Keep  Several  Days. — Lay  in  a  steM'  pan 
or  suitable  vessel  half  a  pound  of  lean,  juicy,  fresh  meat  of  the 
poorest  pieces  or  trimmings ;  over  this  put  half  a  pound  of 
pickled  pork,  or  a  little  less  bacon  of  the  side  meat.  Cut  up  two 
medium-size  onions  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Pour  into  the 
vessel  a  tumblerful  of  boiling  water  (not  more  than  this);  cover 
the  vessel,  and  let  the  meat  stew,  turning  it  once,  until  it  is  a 
rich  brown  color;  then  pour  in  boiling  water  enough  to  just 
cover  it ;  let  it  simmer  an  hour ;  remove  the  meat ;  thicken  the 
gravy  slightly  with  a  paste  made  of  brown  flour  and  water;  let 
this  simmer  half  an  hour;  add  any  essence  of  ham  or  good  gravy 
that  may  be  saved  for  such  purposes.  Put  in  an  earthen  vessel 
well  covered,  and  exclude  from  the  air.  Warm  it  before  serving ; 
season  with  any  catsup  liked.  For  making  all  brown  gravies,  fry 
the  meat  first,  and  pour  over  hot  b-*oth,  gravy  or  water;  use  the 
browned  sugar  or  flour  for  coloring  and  thickening.  Kidney?, 
livers,  necks  of  poultry,  the  scraggv  parts  of  the  necks  of  animals, 
may  be  used  for  making  the  stock  for  gravy. 


345.  Gravy  for  Baked  Fowls. — Put  the  neck  ana  giblets  to 
■tew;  add  salt  to  taste.  In  half  an  hour  take  out  the  neck  and 
gillets;  thicken  with  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  water  while  the 
bi  >th  is  boiling ;  add  a  tumbler  of  the  gravy  to  the  same  quantity 
of  the  broth;  let  it  simmer  until  tLck  as  rich  cream;  cut  up  th 
giblets;  add  to  the  gravy.  Should  there  be  too  much  grease 
skim  it  off*.  Gravies  are  often  served  with  an  amount  of  grease 
floating  upon  the  top  that  renders  taem  repulsive  rather  than  in 
viting.     Seasoning  of  *ny  kind  of  vegetable  or  catsup  may  0* 


SACCE8,    STUFFINGS    AND    (in  ANTES.  17 1 

Used — not,  however,  in  sufficient  quantities  to  overpower  the  natu 
ral  flavor  of  the  gravy. 


346  Gravy  for  Baked  Pig. — Boil  the  harslet  until  tender 
mince  the  liver  and  heart  very  fine.  Put  a  tumblerful  of  the 
broth  they  were  boiled  in  into  a  stew-pan;  thicken  it  with  two 
fceaspc  onfuls  of  flour;  wet  into  a  paste  with  a  little  of  the  broth; 
Btir  to  this  an  equal  quantity  of  the  pig  gravy  ;  season  with  sage ; 
simmer  two  or  three  minutes ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  add  the 
minced  liver;  serve  in  a  tureen.  The  remainder  of  the  harslet 
may  be  hashed ;  add  to  it  any  gravy  not  required  for  the  pig 
should  any  remain.  Make  the  brains  into  a  pancake ;  fry,  and  gar- 
nish the  dish  with  it,  cutting  it  into  small  shapes;  use  alternately 
sprigs  of  parsley ;  or,  if  the  brains  are  not  used  in  this  way,  ste\* 
them  until  done ;  mash  them,  and  add  to  the  gravy. 


347.  Gravy  for  Tripe,  Cow  Heel,  or  Calf's  Read. — Roil  and 
thicken  two  tumblers  of  beef  or  veal  gravy  ;  add  the  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon,  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder;  or  season  highly  with 
red  and  black  pepper  if  the  curry  is  not  liked  ;  simmer  ten 
minutes ;  add  catsup  to  taste,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  If  wine 
is  preferred,  add  a  wineglass  of  Madeira  instead  of  the  catsup. 


348.  Stuffings — For  a  Boiled  Fowl. — Moisten  a  pint  of  bread 
crumbs  with  hot  milk;  melt  in  the  milk  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  mince  fine  as  many  oysters  as 
bieal  crumbs  (or  Irish  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed  fine,  as  bread 
;ruml«,  if  it  is  not  convenient  to  use  o)  3ters) ;  mix  well,  and 
*ttifl,  allowing  a  little  room  foi  the  stuffing  to  swell ;  close  the 
iperture  well  so  as  to  allow  as  little  water  as  possible  to  get  into 
the  fowl. 


349.  For  Baked  or  Boast  Fowls. — Moisten  bread  crumbs, 
hard  biscuit  or  crackers,  with  boiling  water;  let  it  stand  ui^il  the 
bread  can  be  mashed  to  a  paste ;  add  a  spoonful  of  butter  before 


176  MRS.  hill's  new  coor   book. 

the  boiling  water  is  poured  on  ;  season  with  salt  and  temper,  an$ 
minced  eschalot,  onion,  or  parsley  cut  up  fine.  After  mashing 
the  bread,  mix  with  it  one  or  two  eggs;  put  a  teaspoonful  of  lard 
into  the  frying-pan;  when  hot,  pour  in  the- batter,  and  fry  until 
dry,  stirring  constantly  ;  use  while  hot.  A  richer  stuffing  is  modi 
Dy  using  the  yolks  only  of  four  or  five  eggs;  milk  and  flour  foi  t 
Datter,  the  consistence  of  fritter  batter ;  sait  and  pepper  to  taste  ; 
OLion  if  liked.  Pour  into  a  greased  pan ;  when  browr.  on  one 
side,  turn  it;  take  it  up  when  a  good  brown  color;  mash  it  up 
while  hot  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  The  fowl  should  never 
be  crammed  tight  with  stuffing ;  room  should  be  left  for  it  to 
swell.  Put  the  stuffing  in  before  putting  the  fowl  to  roast  or 
bake ;  it  will  be  better  if  the  fowl  is  stuffed  an  hour  or  more 
before  it  is  cooked.  I  have  known  many  cooks  to  half  cook  the 
fowl  and  then  stuff.  The  longer  the  stuffing  remains  in  the  fowL 
so  that  it  is  not  kept  long  enough  to  sour,  the  more  completely 
the  flavor  of  the  seasoning  is  imparted  to  the  meat.  When  the 
fowl  is  ready  for  the  table,  if  the  stuffing  is  performed  skilfully, 
there  will  not  be  the  least  appearance  of  it  visible  upon  the  out- 
side. This  stuffing,  or  any  other,  may  be  seasoned  with  mace,  or 
nutmeg  if  liked,  or  with  cauliflower  chopped,  mushrooms,  almonds, 
potatoes,  as  persons  may  fancy. 


350.  Stuffing  for  Pig. — Use  equal  quantities  of  cold  hominy 
(or  rice)  and  flour ;  mince  a  few  eschalots  or  an  onion,  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley,  a  little  sage,  salt  and  pepper ;  make  this  into  a  dough  , 
bake  it  a  light  brown ;  while  hot,  mash  it  with  sufficient  butter  to 
make  it  rich  enough;  stuff  while  hot;  or  use  for  the  dough  aalf 
flour  and  half  corn  meal. 


351.  Potato  Stuffing. — Bake  or  boil  dry  Irish  potatoes;  maah 
and  strain  them  through  a  colander;  mix  with  them  an  equal 
quantity  of  bread  crumbs  ;  grate,  and  add  three  hard-boiled  eggs  ; 
mix  with  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter.  If  not  sufficiently 
moist  add  &  little  cream ;  season  to  taste-  -a  delicate  and  delicioui 


SAUCE8,    STUFFINGS    AND    GBAVII8.  17) 

stuffing.  "When  batter-bread  muffins,  etc.,  are  used,  save  some 
Tor  stuffing ;  corn  meal  batter-bread  makes  a  fine  pig  stuffing. 
Meats  are  sometimes  added  to  stuffing.  Sausage-meat  is  consideied 
good  to  add  to  stuffing  for  baked  turkey,  also  grated  ham,  01 
tongue.  All  stuffings  made  of  cold  breads,  and  moistened  with 
:ailk  or  water,  are  richer  for  being  fried  a  few  minutes  after  they 
are  mixed  and  seasoned,  stirring  constantly.  Stuffing  should  net 
as  a  general  thing,  be  bound  together  with  raw  egg ;  it  is  lightci 
without. 


352.  Stuffing  for  Fish. — Butter  slices  of  stale  bread  upon  boti 
sides ;  saturate  them  with  wine,  catsup,  or  cream,  as  preferred 
Cut  again  in  smaller  slices,  and  lay  inside  the  fish;  this  also 
makes  a  good  stuffing  for  game. 


353.  M,  Soger's  Receipt  for  Stuffing  for  Goose. — For  a  mid- 
dling-sized fowl  cut  up  a  pound  of  onions;  a  teaspoonful  of  pul- 
verized sage  if  dry,  two  if  green,  and  minced  fine ;  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  one  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  pepper.  Set  this  over  a 
slow  fire ;  let  it  stew  fifteen  minutes ;  then,  with  a  spoon,  stuiF  the 
bird  while  the  onion  is  hot. 


353$.  Sauce  Jelly  for  Fowls  or  Meat. — Yolks  of  two  hard' 
boiled  eggs  rubbed  to  a  paste ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  or 
gravy,  one  teaspoonfu'  of  jelly,  a  little  vinegar,  one  of  mixed 
mustard,  ono  tablespoonful  minced  pickle. 


353  j.   Sauce  for  Grated  Ham. — One  pint  of  vinegar,  tie  yefr 
i)wi  of  four  eggs,  add  mustard,  boil.     When  cold,  mix. 


VEGETABLES. 

"Man  has  been  called  in  relation  to  his  diet  Oinniveroui 
from  his  being  adapted  to  live  on  every  kind  of  food ;  whereat 
most  other  animals  are  confined  to  one.  In  man  it  is  evident 
from  his  anatomical  structure  that  he  was  intended  to  feed  pro- 
miscuously on  animal  or  vegetable  food,  as  choice  impelled. 

"  No  animal  can  live  happily  except  in  conformity  to  the  laws 
of  his  constitution ;  it  follows,  therefore,  that  man  requires  mixed 
food.  A  proper  balance  between  the  two  kinds  of  food  should 
be  observed  if  we  desire  to  live  a  natural  and  consequently 
healthy  life. 

"  A  well  arranged  dietetic  scheme  ought  to  consist  of  such  A 
combination  of  the  albuminous,  oleaginous  and  farinaceous  con- 
stituents as  is  most  appropriate  to  tne  requirements  of  the  system, 
and  it  is  not  only  necessary  fur  the  healthy  support  of  the  body 
that  the  food  ingested  should  contain  an  adequate  proportion  of 
alimentary  constituents,  but  that  those  should  be  in  a  wholesome 
or  undecomposing  state. 

"It  Cannot  be  questioned  that  articles  originally  good  and 
wholesome  may  derive  a  poisonous  character  from  changes  taking 
place  in  their  own  composition — a  peculiar  ferment  is  sometimes 
generated  which  the  stomach  is  not  able  to  bear." 


354  Vegetables. — Vegetables  iniended  for  dinner  should  be 
gathered  early  in  the  morning.  A  few  only  can  be  kept  twelve 
hours  without  detriment.  "  When  fresh-gathered  they  are  plump 
and  firm,  aid  have  a  fragrant  freshness  no  art  can  give  them 
again  when  they  have  lost  it  by  long  keeping,  though  it  will  re- 
fresh them  a  little  to  put  them  into  cold  water  before  cccki.ig.n 
A  little  soda  in  the  water  they  are  cooked  in  will  help  to  preserve 
the  color  of  those  that  are  green.     They  lose  their  good  ippear 


VEGETABLES.  170 

■nee  and  flavor  if  cooked  too  long,  and  are  indigestible  if  nol 
cooked  enough;  close  attention  and  good  judgment  are  necessary 
to  know  the  proper  timo  to  take  them  up.  Always  drain  the 
water  from  them  well  before  sending  to  table ;  have  the  dishes 
h  »t  upon  which  they  are  placed,  and  never  send  them  to  table 
until  the  meats  are  served ;  when  sent  in  too  soon,  and  often  un 
covered,  they  become  chilled  and  unfit  for  use.  Always  put 
vegetables  to  boil  in  hot  water. 


355.  Asparagus. — When  cut  below  the  ground,  skin  the  white 
part,  or  it  will  be  tough ;  cut  as  nearly  as  possible  the  same 
length;  turn  the  points  together,  and  tie  in  bunches.  Have  a 
stew-pan  of  boiling  water  salted;  lay  the  asparagus  in;  boil 
briskly  half  an  hour;  toast  slices  of  light  bread;  pour  over  a 
little  of  the  asparagus  water ;  butter  it  well ;  put  the  asparagus  on 
the  toast;  serve  hot.  The  toast  may  be  omitted  if  not  liked. 
Or,  cut  the  stalks  above  the  ground — this  is  more  tender,  but  not 
so  pretty ;  cook  in  the  same  way ;  and  it  is  good  cut  in  small 
pieces,  stewed  with  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  just  water  enough  to 
cover  them.  Make  a  paste  of  a  little  of  the  water  and  a  teaspoon ful 
of  flour ;  stir  to  the  stew ;  let  it  simmer  five  minutes.  Take  them 
op  as  soon  as  done ;  too  much  cooking  injures  the  color  and  flavor. 
Asparagus  is  good  boiled  tender,  cut  up  and  dressed  as  a  salad,  with 
hot  vinegar,  egg,  butter,  pepper  and  mustard.     To  be  eaten  hot. 


356.  Burr  Artichokes. — The  burr  or  globe  artichoke  should  be 
well  washed ;  put  to  boil  in  plenty  of  hot  water,  slightly  salted  ;  boil 
until  tender,  which  may  be  ascertained  by  drawing  a  leaf;  trim 
the  points;  serve  with  melted  butter,  in  a  "ureen.  A  separate 
plate  should  be  provided  to  serve  them  upon. 


357.  Jerusalem  Artichokes. — These  may  be  sliced,  and  f>oiled 
like  turnips,  or  cooked  in  any  way  Irish  potatoes  are.  They 
require  longer  boiling.  They  are  considered  particularly  good 
boiled  and  dressed  as  a  salad. 


180  MRS.    IIIIL's    NEW    COOK    COOK. 

35S.  Beets. — Dig  them  carefully,  so  that  the  fibres  are  as  lilttt 
broken  as  possible ;  if  careless  abo  it  this,  red  beets,  when  cot.kcd 
los?  their  fine  color.  Wash  them  well,  and  put  them  to  boil  in 
hot  water  from  one  to  two  hours,  according  to  size.  Presi 
them  without  piercing  or  breaking  the  skin,  to  ascertain  »f  they 
are  done ;  when  they  yield  readily  to  the  pressure,  take  then:  \i\ 
a  a  pan  of  cold  water ;  rub  off  the  skin,  slice  them,  and  dress  mil 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt  when  young  and  tender,  or  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  vinegar  if  preferred.  Old  beets  lose  their  sweetness 
and  are  best  dressed  with  hot  spiced  vinegar,  into  which  has  beer, 
stirred  a  little  sugar.  They  may  be  eaten  cold  when  dressed 
with  vinegar;  they  may  be  boiled,  or  baked  and  grated,  and 
dressed  as  a  salad.  Beets  have  a  finer  flavor  baked  than  boiled  ; 
it  requires  longer  time  to  cook  them  in  this  way.  Be  equally 
as  careful  not  to  break  the  skin  or  fibres.  Beets  may  be  pre. 
sei  ved  through  the  winter  by  hilling,  as  sweet  potatoes  are  for 
winter. 


359.  Beans. — String  them  carefully ;  wash  well,  and  boil  thero 
briskly  in  an  open  vessel  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender;  some 
varieties  requires  longer  boiling  than  others.  The  water  in  which 
they  are  put  to  cook  should  be  boiling  and  salted  ;  when  tender, 
take  them  up  in  a  colander ;  drain  the  water  carefully  from  them, 
and  transfer  them  to  a  hot  covered  dish ;  pour  over  melted 
butter.  Some  persons  prefer  their  being  boiled  with  a  piece  of 
bacon,  the  side  meat  is  preferred ;  either  way  is  good.  The  meat 
Bhould  boil  half  an  hour  before  the  beans  are  put  in.  Beans  may 
be  saved  for  winter  by  packing  them  in  salt,  a  layer  cf  each ;  th* 
beans  should  not  be  strung.  Gather  them  at  the  age  for  boiling. 
When  used,  soak  them  until  fresh  enough. 


360.  Lima,  or  Butter  Beans. — When  fully  formed,  and  before 
the  hull  turns  yellow,  shell  them ;  wash  well,  and  put  them  to 
boil  in  hot  water,  sufficiently  salted  to  season  then:.  When 
tender,  pour  off  nearly  all  the  »»•*»»"  make  the  remainder  of  th« 


VEGETABLES.  181 

it/ioth  rich  with  butter,  and  serve  upon  a  hot  dish.  Never  peppei 
thetn  unless  with  white  pepper;  the  small  black  particles  of  the 
common  pepper  upon  so  white  a  vegetable  gives  them  an  untidy 
look. 


361  Succotath — Boil  butter-beans  shelled  (dried  or  green) 
half  an  hour ;  salt  the  water;  then  add  half  as  much  green  }.  r\ 
cut  from  the  cobs.  Boil  the  cobs  a  few  minutes  when  the  beam 
are  first  put  to  boil.  Take  out  the  cobs ;  add  the  corn ;  to  half  a 
gallon  of  the  succotash  add  a  paste  made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  and  water  sufficient  to  form  the  paste  ;  season  with  salt  and 
butter  enough  to  make  it  as  rich  as  may  be  liked.  This  is  also 
very  good  boiled  in  the  broth  in  which  poultry  has  been  boiled, 
or  cooked  with  a  small  piece  of  pork.  Succotash  may  be  madfc 
of  dried  beans,  and  corn  dried  for  winter  use;  soak  them  an  houi 
before  using.     Dried  beans  are  excellent  baked  with  pickled  pork 

i  

302.  Brocoli. — Gather  hard  heads;  peel  the  stalks;  boil  in 
salted  water  briskly,  leaving  the  vessel  open  twenty  minutes,  or 
•mtil  tender ;  take  them  up  and  pour  over  melted  butter.  Serve  hot. 


363.  Cabbage. — Take  off  the  green  leaves ;  quarter  the  heads ; 
wash  them  well,  examining  between  the  leaves  for  insects ;  let  them 
lie  in  cold  water  until  it  is  time  to  put  them  to  boil ;  cut  off  part 
of  the  thick  stalk,  or  the  leaves  will  be  overdone  before  the  stalk 
is  tender.  Put  in  boiling  water,  sufficiently  salted ;  it  should  be 
well  covered  with  water ;  if  too  little  is  used,  the  cabbage  will  be 
strong.  Some  kinds  of  cabbages  require  to  be  first  parboiled, 
then  put  in  another  water ;  always  using  boiling  water.  When 
tender,  take  them  up  in  a  colander;  drain  off  all  the  water  ;  put 
them  upon  a  not  dish,  and  cover  with  slices  of  butter,  putting 
iome  between  the  loaves.  It  is  also  liked  boiled  in  the  liquor  in 
*  hich  bacon  has  been  boiled ;  when  cooked  in  this  way,  take  up 
the  meat,  the  flavor  of  the  cabbage  would  injure  the  meat;  skim 
off  all  impurities  on  the  liquor,  and  put  the  catbage  in;  boU 


182  MRS.    HILLS    NEW    COOK    DOOR, 

brisklj  ;  and  when  done,  they  will  sink  to  the  bcttom  ;  take  them 
up  immediately  into  a  colander,  and  drain  well.  Serve  in  a  hot 
dish,  and  never  in  the  same  disli  with  the  meat. 

The  remains  of  cabbage  used  at  dinner  is  sometimes  chopped 
6)  e  and  fried  svith  a  little  butter  or  lard,  and  served  as  a  break 
r«U  dish. 


364.  To  Stuff  Cabbage. — Strip  off  the  green  leaves ;  examine  and 
wash  well ;  lay  in  cold  water  until  ready  for  use.  Cut  out  the  heart, 
or  centre,  leaving  two  or  three  rows  of  leaves.  Scald  the  cabbage 
well ;  when  the  leaves  wilt  from  the  scalding,  there  will  be  less 
danger  of  their  breaking.  Chop  the  leaves  fine;  add  to  them 
any  scraps  of  cold  meat  or  poultry ;  season  high  with  pepper  and 
salt ;  and  if  the  flavor  is  liked,  an  onion,  shred  fine ;  bind  the 
whole  together  with  a  raw  egg,  worked  in;  a  few  bread  crumbs 
may  be  added.  Make  this  into  several  balls,  or  one  large  ball, 
and  put  in  the  centre  of  the  cabbage ;  fold  the  leaves  over  care- 
fully ;  wrap  well  with  thread ;  over  this  put  a  thin  netting  or 
muslin;  tie  it  securely,  and  boil  until  the  cabbage  is  tender. 
Drain  it  from  the  water ;  serve  upon  a  hot  dish,  with  melted 
butter  poured  over.  Remove  the  cloth  and  strings  before  pour 
ing  over  the  butter. 


305.  Hot  Slaio. — Cut  the  cabbage  in  four  quarters :  after  wash, 
ing  it  carefully,  parboil  ten  minutes.  Take  it  out  of  the  water 
cut  in  thin  slices ;  put  it  in  a  stew-pan ;  season  with  salt ;  add  a 
wineglass  of  hot  water,  an  even  tablespoonful  of  butter;  cover 
the  stew-pan,  and  let  the  cabbage  stew  until  tender ;  stir  it  fre- 
quently from  the  bottom.  When  tender,  which  will  probably 
require  an  hour's  steady  stewing,  add  as  much  vinegar  as  will 
give  the  mass  a  pleasant  acid  taste. 


366.  Cold  Slaw. — Cut  a  head  of  hard  white  cabbage  into  very 
fine  shavings.  It  is  seldom  shaved  fine  enough.  For  a  quart  of 
ihe  cabbage  take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beat -them  well ;  stir  into 


VEGETABLES.  183 

ft  tumMer  and  a  half  of  vinegar  two  teaspoonfuls  of  loaf  sugar, 
a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  one  of  thick,  swe^t  cream,  or  a  pieo« 
of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut,  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  mustard 
•alt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  with  the  egg,  and  put  this  sauot 
into  a  stew-pan;  when  not  add  the  cabbage;  stew  imli 
thoroughly  hot,  which  will  only  require  four  or  five  minutes 
Toss  it  up  from  the  bottom  with  a  silver  or  wooden  fork.  'lakt 
it  up  and  set  where  it  will  become  perfectly  cold,  on  ice  is  best, 
The  quantity  of  vinegar  will  depend  upon  its  strength. 


3G7.  Saucr  Kraut. — Quarter  a  dozen  hard  heads  of  cabbage; 
cut  olfthe  stalks  closely;  sprinkle  salt  in  the  bottom  of  a  cask; 
pack  the  cabbage  down  firmly;  put  over  another  layer  of  salt; 
when  all  are  in,  cover  with  a  heavy  weight.  Keep  the  cask  in  a 
cool  place.      In  four  or  five  weeks  the  pieces  will  be  ready  for  use. 

To  cook  sauer  kraut :  Soak  in  plenty  of  water  until  fresh 
enough.  Boil  until  tender,  with  bacon,  pickled  pork,  or  in  water 
salted  ;  and,  when  tender,  add  butter  when  boiled  in  water.  After 
being  boiled,  it  may  be  fried  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  or  lard, 


3G8. — Cauliflower. — Remove  all  green  leaves.  To  look  well 
this  vegetable  should  be  very  white.  Boil  it  in  water  salted,  or 
half  sweet  milk  ;  when  tender,  put  over  it,  while  hot,  slices  cf 
butter,  putting  some  on  the  inside.  This  vegetable  is  fine  in 
soups,  to  season  meat  sauces,  for  salads  and  pickle. 


360.  Carrots. — Carrots  require  longer  cooking  tLun  anj 
othtr  vegetable.  When  young,  they  only  require  to  be  washed 
before  being  cooked.  Old  carrots  should  be  cut  into  slices, 
and  stewed  until  tender;  season  with  salt  and  butter.  Carrots 
are  good  in  soup,  and  are  better  grated ;  they  give  a  rich  coloi 
io  soups. 

370.  Celery. — This  is  usually  served  without  being  ccoked, 
but  may  be  stewed.     Cut  the  root  in  small  pieces ;  add  water  to 


184  mrs.  n ill's  new  cook  book. 

cover  it 0  season  with  salt;  simmer  until  nearly  done;  add  hut 
tor,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a  little  flour.  When  sufficiently 
cooked,  just  before  taking  it  up,  add  a  wineglass  of  sweet  cream 


371.  Cucumbers. — Gather  them  early  in  the  morning;  pu* 
hem  in  water.  An  hour  before  they  are  to  be  served,  peel  and 
out  them  in  thin,  round  slices;  cover  with  cold  water  until  a  few 
minutes  before  sending  to  the  table.  Pour  off  this  water  ;  add  a 
tnird  as  much  white  onion,  cut  in  thin  slices,  as  cucumber.  Tha 
onion  should  be  skinned  and  kept  in  cold  water  until  used ;  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Cucumbers  may  also  to 
stewed  as  squashes,  and  seasoned  with  butter,  or  sliced  length 
wise,  rolled  in  corn  meal,  salted  and  fried. 


372.  Corn. — Gather  the  ears  when  the  grains  are  full  of  milk, 
but  before  they  are  hard ;  remove  the  shuck  and  silk ;  put  the 
corn  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt  iii  it ;  boil  half  an  hour  if 
the  corn  is  young.  Serve  the  ears  hot  as  they  are  boiled,  or  cut 
them  from  the  cobs  with  a  sharp  knife;  put  in  a  deep  covered 
dish ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Sugar  corn  is  best 
for  the  table. 


373.  Samp. — Take  the  corn  when  the  grains  are  full,  but 
milky ;  with  a  sharp  knife  shave  off  the  corn  to  the  cob ;  be 
careful  not  to  cut  the  cob  (that  would  injure  the  taste  of  the 
corn) ;  "scrape  out  the  milk.  Put  it  all  in  a  stew-pan  ;  pour  over 
four  times  its  bulk  of  boiling  water ;  add  salt  to  taste.  Let  the 
mass  boil  four  hours,  covered ;  boil  slowly.  Eat  with  butter ;  or 
pour  into  pans ;  cut  in  slices,  when  cold,  and  fry.  Stir  ire<j  jently 
when  the  corn  is  nearly  done. 


374.  To  Stew  Ccrn. — Cut  it  from  the  cobs  with  a  sharp  knife; 
put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  the  milk  which  came  from  the  corn,  and 
to  each  quart  of  corn,  half  a  tumbler  of  water;  stew  until  done, 
which  will  require  from  a  half  to  three  quarters   of  an  hour 


VEGETABLES.  183 

depending  upon  the  age  of  the  corn.  When  done,  season  with 
pepper,  saH,  and  butter.  Or,  put  the  corn,  after  it  U  cut  fiom 
tho  cobs,  into  a  frying-pan;  add  a  tunMer  of  water  to  a  quart- 
■tew  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently;  season  with  peppur  and 
■alt;  add  a  piece  of  lard  or  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut,  and  fry 
until  a  light  brown  color,  or  less  if  preferred.  Corn  may  be 
rousted  by  wiping  it  on  the  gridiron,  after  removing  the  shuck ; 
tun;  it  often  until  the  grains  are  all  a  light  brown  color ;  eat 
w  th  salt. 


375.  Green  Corn  Fritters. — Six  cars  of  boiled  corn  grated, 
hree  eggs;  beat  the  yolks;  mix  with  the  corn;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  add  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  (lour; 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiiF  froth,  and  add  last.  Fry  as  fritters,  in 
not  lard.  Serve  upon  a  napkin  laid  upon  a  flat  dish.  Another 
vay  :  Grate  four  ears  of  corn;  beat  five  eggs  separately;  stir 
the  yolks  with  the  corn;  two  teacups  of  flour,  sour  milk  sufficient 
to  make  a  batter  thick  as  rice  batter  cakes,  half  a  teaspooufui  oi 
soda ;  add  the  whites  last,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Yry  as  fritters, 
or  bake  as  griddle  cakes. 


376.  Green  Com  Pudding. — Two  well  beaten  eggs,  two  tum- 
blers of  grated  corn,  half  a  tumbler  of  milk,  tablespoon  a  little 
heaped  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.     Bake. 


377.  Green  Corn  Pudding,  No.  2 — Mrs.  C?s  Receipt. — One 
pint  of  green  corn  grated,  one  large  teacup  of  cream,  one  heaped 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  good  butter,  four  well 
beaten  eggs,  salt  to  taste  ;  bake  half  an  hour  without  scorching. 
ITiis  may  be  used  as  a  dessert,  with  a  good  sauce. 


378.  Green  Corn. — Green  corn  may  be  kept  krr  winter  use  by 
parboiling  it.  Cut  it  from  the  cobs,  and  dry  in  the  sun;  keep  in 
paper  tags,  in  a  dry  place.  Soak  it  and  use  with  dry  beans  to  make 
•uocotash.     Another  way  :  Remove  all  the  green  shuck  but  the 


186  MRS.    HILL'S. NEW    COOK    BOOR. 

layer  next  the  cob;  tie  the  open  end  securely,  wrapping  th« 
siring  around  the  whole  ear;  pack  in  salt.  Sweet  corn  is  b*st 
for  preserving  in  this  way. 


379.  Eschalot. — A  species  of  onion.  They  are  good  in  tin 
f  pring  Strip  off  the  outside  skin ;  cut  off  all  the  green  part 
boil  in  salted  water ;  serve  with  melted  butter ;  or  cut  them  fine, 
using  a  little  of  the  green  top  joining  the  root;  put  them  on  the 
fire  in  cold  water  in  a  frying-pan ;  when  the  water  is  nearlv 
ready  to  boil,  pour  it  off;  add  a  few  slices  of  pork  or  bacon,  and 
fry,  turning  them  frequently.  Some  persons  eat  them  raw. 
served  with  lettuce,  radishes,  and  water-cresses.  They  may  be 
used  for  seasoning  in  the  place  of  onions. 


380.  Endive. — This  is  only  used  for  salad.  In  the  fall  and 
spring  (have  two  plantings)  tie  up  the  heads,  and  bleach  them  • 
they  become  beautifully  white  and  crisp.  Serve  it  as  a  salad 
with  the  same  sauce  used  with  lettuce  salad. 


381.  Egg-Plant. — The  purple  is  best.  Peel  and  parboil  them ; 
mash  fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  onion,  if  the  flavor 
is  not  disliked ;  add  butter  to  make  it  moderately  rich.  Put  this 
mixture  in  a  deep  earthen  dish ;  grate  over  it  bread  crumbs,  and 
bake  a  light  brown  color. 

382.  Gasparcho. — Flour  crickers  (large  square  kind),  put  in 
ice-water  enough  to  saturate  them ;  cut  up  one-half  dozen  green 
peppers,  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  onions.  Chop  peppers  and  onions  j 
Cir  cucumbers  and  tomatoes  in  thin  slices,  make  a  sauce  of  raus- 
iar  1,  salt,  vinegar,  and  olive-oil;  mash  the  crackers;  mix  tho  veg- 
etables, and  pour  over  the  sauce. 


383.  Egg-Plant,  No.  3. — Cut  a  round  piece  from  one  end  of 
tha  plant ;  with  the  handle  of  a  spoon  sco  >p  out  the  inside.     Pa? 


VEGETABLES.  181 

Oo:J  the  shell  in  water,  a  little  jailed,  five  minutes;  take  it  out, 
phmge  it  in  cold  water.  Stew  the  inside  with  a  little  onion,  pep)»ei 
and  *alt, until  done.  Beat  cne  or  two  eggs ;  add  to  the  stew  with 
butte.*  to  season  it  properly — for  the  inside  of  one  egg-plant  • 
heap^a  veaspoonful  of  butter  will  be  sufficient,  and  one  egg;  n.jt 
well  and  stew  until  dry,  adding  half  as  much  bread  ciumbn  au 
egg-plant ;  stuff  the  shell  with  this ;  a  little  minced  veal,  ham, 
tongue,  or  poultry  may  be  added  to  the  stuffing,  and  is  an  im- 
provement. Tie  on  the  piece  cut  off.  Put  the  egg-plants  to 
bake  in  a  (\ish,  the  bottom  of  which  is  covered  with  slices  of 
bacon;  bake  m.  hour;  serve  on  a  flat  dish  whole;  remove  the 
6tring  and  top  piece.  The  egg-plant  is  sometimes  cut  in  half, 
lengthwise,  the  «».itents  removed,  and  stewed  as  above ;  the  half 
pieces  parboiled  ui.til  tende*  in  water  salted;  then  stuffed  with  a 
rich  force-meat ;  h  coating  of  egg  spread  over  the  open  side, 
bread  crumbs  sprinkled  ovei ;  put  in  a  dish  with  slices  of  cold 
ham.  and  baked  untii  tender ,  either  way  is  good. 


384.  To  Fry  Plu>*. — Feel  the  egg-plant;  cut  it  in  thin 
slices;  strew  salt  between  the  slices;  let  them  remain  an  hour; 
parboil  them  five  miliums;  roll  each  slice  in  flour  or  corn  meal ; 
fry  a  golden  color  in  boiling  lard ;  turn  the  pieces  once ;  serve 
upon  a  napkin. 

385.  Greens. — Kale,  or  cole,  mustard,  cabbage  sprouts,  turnip 
tops,  to  any  of  which  may  be  added  a  few  beet  tops,  the  younjj 
shoots  of  the  poke  plant,  all  make  good  spring  greena,  Picl 
and  wash  them ;  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  at  least  an  houj 
before,  they  are  used.  Put  them  on  in  plenty  of  boiling  water 
salted  ;  boil  briskly  twer  ty  minutes ;  they  will  sink  to  the  bottom 
when  done.  Take  them  up  in  a  colander;  press  the  water  from 
them;  put  upon  a  hot  dish;  cut  across  the  leaves  in  sevetal 
places  with  a  sharp  knife;  p<  ur  over  melted  butter;  dress  with 
poached  eggs,  either  placed  upon  the  dish  of  greens  or  served  in 
a  separate  dish.     They  are  not  go<  d  unless  served  hot.     Scnu 


188  MR8.    nil.L's    NEW    COOK    BOOR. 

pers<  ns  prefer  greens  boiled  with  a  piece  cf  bacon  or  hock  boM 
of  ham.  No  matter  in  what  way  they  are  cooked,  poached  eggs 
should  accompany  them. 

386.  Leeks. — These  are  a  species  of  onion,  and  mere  delicsU 

han  any  of  the  tribe.     They  are   ready  for  us*  early  in  th» 

spring.     Skin  them ;  lay  in  cold  water  an  hour ;   boil  in  salted 

water  until  they  yield  readily  to  pressure.     Put  them  upon  a  hoi 

covered  dish ;  pour  over  melted  butter. 


387.  Lettuce. — This  vegetable  is  usually  served  in  a  raw  state, 
as  a  salad  ;  but  is  sometimes  cooked,  cut  up,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper,  fried  with  pork  until  wilted,  or  stewed  with  aspara- 
gus, green  peas,  and  slices  of  lamb  or  mutton.  For  salad  :  Make 
a  sauce;  put  it  upon  the  bottom  of  the  salad  bowl.  Gather  the 
lettuce  early  in  the  morning  Wash  them  well,  but  very  deli- 
cately, as  they  are  easily  bruised.  Lay  the  heads  in  ice-cold 
water ;  keep  in  a  cold  place,  or  they  will  not  be  crisp.  If  the 
heads  are  large,  divide  them,  but  use  the  knife  carefully ;  much 
pressure  will  destroy  the  crispness  of  the  vegetable,  without 
which  a  salad  is  valueless.  Ten  minutes  before  dinner  is  served, 
clip  the  lettuce  with  a  sharp  pair  of  scissors  kept  for  this  pur- 
pose ;  they  are  best  long  and  slender.  The  clipping  should  be 
done  by  "  fairy"  fingers.  Put  the  lettuce  (while  clipping  it)  upon 
a  clean  towel ;  then  strew  it  lightly  over  the  sauce,  which  has 
already  been  placed  upon  the  bottom  of  the  sauce-bowl.  If  con- 
venient, now  set  the  bowl  upon  ice  until  needed.  In  serving, 
toss  the  lettuce  with  the  sauce  lightly,  stirring  from  the  bottom, 
using  a  wooden  fork  and  spoon.     Separate  plates  should  be  used 

or  serving  the  salad. 

388.  To  Make  the  Sauce. — One  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  of 
salt,  two  of  loaf  sugar  pulverized,  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  a 
teacup  of  vinegar ;  mix  these  together ;  put  in  a  stew-pan  until 
■calding  hot.     Beat  two  eggs  well ;  pour  to  them  the  hot  vinegar 


VEGETABLES.  189 

stirring  constantly  until  the  dunge»  of  the  eggs  curdling  is  over 
It  must  be  entirely  cold  before  being  applied  to  the  lettuce. 

Another  Sauce :  For  a  quart  of  lettuce  boil  three  eggs  until 
the  yolks  are  hard  ;  separate  them  from  the  whites,  mash  them 
imootlily  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon;  mash  a  small  Irish 
f-otato  with  a  large  tablespoonful  of  thick  sweet  cream;  strai 
Jse  potato  through  a  sieve  ;  mix  with  the  egg ;  add  a  teaspoonfu 
of  mustard,  one  of  loaf  sugar  heaped,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  wine- 
glass of  good  apple  vinegar.  Put  this  sauce  on  the  bottom  of 
the  salad  bowl.  There  is  a  prejudice  with  many  against  the  use  of 
olive  oil ;  this  is  needless  if  the  oil  is  fresh ;  no  taste  of  it  is  dis- 
cernible. The  clarified  essence  of  ham  may  be  used  in  its  place. 
Butter  does  not  answer  well.  When  cold,  the  particles  harden, 
and  separate  from  the  vinegar.  The  sauce,  by  some,  is  preferred 
ivithout  oil  or  butter,  using  only  salt,  pepper,  vinegar,  and  sugar. 
It  is  well  to  dress  one  salad  bowl  with  the  lettuce  whole,  mixing 
in  radishes,  celery,  cresses,  and  young  eschalots,  leaving  a  few 
inches  of  the  green  tops ;  season  extempore  upon  the  plate  to 
taste,  sugar,  mustard,  etc.,  being  at  hand. 


389.  Winter  Salads — May  be  made  of  beet  roots  boiled  and 
grated,  artichokes  in  the  same  way,  endive  cut  up  (after  being 
bleached)  as  lettuce;  with  these  mix  the  sauce  thoroughly  with 
the  vegetables.  Irish  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed,  seasoned  with 
salad  sauce  (butter  may  be  used  with  them)  is  very  good  cold, 
but  much  better  hot.  A  tier  seasoning,  return  to  the  stew-pan 
until  hot.  Reserve  in  every  case  the  whites  for  ornamenting 
Cut  them  in  rings;  lay  over  the  salad  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 


$96  Mushrooms.-  -Great  care  should  be  used  in  gathering 
them.  There  is  a  poisonous  kind  nearly  resembling  the  edible 
kind,  and  fatal  mistakes  have  occurred.  The  good  are  first  very 
•mall,  of  a  rouid  form,  with  small  stalk  ;  the  upper  part  and  stalk 
are  white;  the  under,  a  salmon  color,  and,  as  they  increase  in  size, 
Decomc   brown.     They  grow  rapidly,    and   are   found    in   open 


191)  MRS.   hill's  new  cook   book. 

fields  or  pastures;  reject  those  found  in  shady  places.  The  smell 
of  the  genuine  mushroom  ?t*  pleasant.  They  are  indigestible. 
They  may  be  cooked  in  a  variety  of  ways.  To  broil :  Select 
large  ones;  lay  the  flaps  on  tne  gridiron;  broil  until  thoroughly 
fei,t.     Serve  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 


S91.  To  Stew, — Take  the  large  buttons;  peel  them  ;  cut  i ft th« 
tftalks ;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  vh  eg;ti 
butter,  sa!t,  and  pepper,  according  to  the  quantity  cooked.  Coyci 
the  stew-pan,  and  1  it  them  cook  until  tender ;  add  another  piece 
of  butter,  into  which  has  been  stirred  a  little  flour;  let  this 
become  hot.  Lay  a  few  slices  of  toast  (which  should  be  prepared 
while  the  mushrooms  are  being  cooked)  in  the  bottom  of  a  hot, 
deep  covered  dish.  Pour  over  the  contents  of  the  stew-pan,  and 
serve  immediately. 

392.  To  Bake  Mushrooms. — Rub  off  the  skins  of  the  large  flaps 
with  salt  and  a  piece  of  coarse  clean  cloth ;  trim  the  fringe  from 
the  small  ones  ;  cut  off  the  stalks ;  lay  them  upon  their  back  in 
an  earthen  dish.  For  a  pint,  use  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh 
butter,  with  an  even  tablespoonful  of  brown  flour  stirred  to  it; 
put  some  of  this  upon  each  mushroom;  bake  until  tender,  which 
will  require  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Serve  upon  toast; 
first  dip  the  toast  in  boiling  water. 


393.  Nasturtion. — The  blooms  are  gay,  and  make  a  fine  relish 
eaten  with  cold,  light  bread,  buttered.  They  make  a  beautiful 
breakfast  dish.  This  vegetable  is  seldom  used,  however,  but  foi 
p-bkling;  for  this,  gather  the  pods  when  fully  grown.  They  sent 
u  a  good  substitute  for  capers  in  making  sauce. 


39 1.  Ochra. — Gather  only  the  young  pods.  They  should  be 
vei)  little  washed,  and  not  suffered  to  remain  a  minute  in  water, 
and  never  trim  them  until  after  they  are  washed,  as  they  lost 
much  of  the  fin©  mucilage  that  makes  the  vegetable  so  valuable 


VEGETABLES.  101 

It  may  be  used  n  soup,  or  to  mane  gumbo  (which  is  a  thick  soup), 
and  stewed,  fried,  etc ,  and  may  be  dried  and  preserved  as  & 
wiuter  vegetable.  Receipts  for  soup  and  gumbo  have  already 
beeu  given. 

395.  To  Slew  Ochra. — Cut  it  in  round  slices ;  put  it  in  a  stew 
tin;  for  a  quart,  add  a  wineglass  of  hct  water,  a  tablespoonful 
of  buiter,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  an  even  teaspoonful  of 
flour;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  the  stew-pan,  shake  it 
occasionally,  and  stew  until  tender;  serve  in  a  hot  covered  d'sh. 
A  few  tomatoes  and  a  little  onion  stewed  with  the  ochra  is  an 
improvement.  This  is  excellent  used  as  a  sauce  for  plain  boiled 
rice. 


390.  To  Fry  Ochra. — Boil  a  quart;  strain  it  well  from  the 
wa*er;  mash  it  smooth;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  in 
one  or  iwo  eggs,  and  add  flour  (about  half  a  tumbler  of  sifted 
flour)  to  make  the  batter  stiff  enough  to  fry  as  fritters.  Serve 
on  a  flat  dish  upon  a  napkin.  They  should  not  be  piled ;  send  in 
as  fast  as  fried. 


397.  To  Dry  for  Winter  Use. — Quarter  thorn ;  use  only  those 
that  are  tender ;  string  them ;  hang  them  in  an  airy  room  until 
dry.     To  cook  them,  soak  twelve  hours. 


398.  Onions. — For  seasoning,  the  red  onion  will  answer;  but 
only  use  the  white  silver-skinned  for  boiling,  stewing,  etc.  Take 
oflTthe  outer  skins  until  the  white  solid  part  is  reached ;  cut  off  s 
iliee,  top  and  bottom.  Put  them  to  bcil  in  a  covered  vessel ; 
pour  over  hot  water  to  cover  them  ;  add  a  little  salt  to  the  water. 
When  done,  take  them  up  with  a  perforated  skimmer  entirely 
clear  of  water ;  dress  with  melted  butter. 


899.   Onion  Custard. — Skin  and  slice  ten  medium-sized  white, 
silver  orions;   fry  them  in  fresh  butter;   as  soon  as  of  a  golden 


192  mas.  uill's  new  cook  book. 

cg  or,  drain  them  from  the  buttei  ;  mince  them  very  fine.  Beat 
four  eggs;  stir  to  them  slowly,  stirring  constantly,  two  tumblers 
of  sweet  milk ;  stii  all  to  the  onions ;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  nutmeg.  Pour  in  an  earthen  dish  that  will  just  hold  it,  and 
Wke  f  ileen  minutes.     Fried  onions  are  relished  by  some  persons 


400.  Onion  Stew. — Cut  up  six  white  onions,  medium-size; 
*hce  as  much  Irish  potatoes  after  peeling.  Put  all  in  a  stew-pan ; 
four  over  a  pint  of  hot  water ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  cover 
dose;  simmer  gently;  when  nearly  done,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
t  Hitter,  with  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  flour  rubbed  into  it,  and 
l.alf  a  tumbler  of  sweet  cream.  Stir  from  the  bottom  to  prevent 
ts  scorching,  and  when  just  ready  to  boil,  pour  into  a  hot  covered 
Aish  ;  serve  immediately.  This  is  a  fine  accompaniment  to  boiled 
poultry  or  mutton. 


401.  Irish  Potatoes. — To  cook  them  when  very  young,  wash 
tbem;  scrape  of  the  skin;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan;  cover  with 
hot  water ;  boil  gently  until  tender ;  pour  off  the  water ;  aci*4  to 
a  quart  oft  potatoes  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  a  tea 
spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  into  it ;  pour  in  a  tumblerful  of  sweet 
cream  or  milk ;  stew,  uncovered,  five  minutes ;  serve  in  a  hot 
dish. 


40 1£  Irish  Potato  Puff. — Two  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes; 
taro  tablespoon  fills  of  melted  butter;  beat  together  until  smooth; 
add  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  a  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  pour  into  • 
b  vking  dish ;  bake  quick,  and  serve  immediately. 


402.  To  Boil  Potatoes  Fully  Grown. — First  assort  them,  anl 
boil  togetiier  those  of  the  same  size.  Common  sense  teaches 
that  this  ought  to  be  done,  since  when  large  and  small  go  to  the 
Ktttlt  together  the  small  ones  are  spoiled  before  the  larger  ones 
ate  sufficiently  cooked.  Wash  them  well  in  several  waters. 
Put  thjm  to  boil  in  hot  water  to  cover  them,  slightly  salted. 
Pse  an   iron  vessel.     Keep  the  boiler  covered  a  quarter  of  an 


VEGETABLES. 


193 


Hour,  then  leave  it  open  until  the  potatoes  are  lone  to  tho  centre; 
try  one  with  a  fork.     Pour  off  every  drop  of  the  water  that  can 
he ;  set  the  vessel  on  the  coolest  part  of  the  stove ;  leave  it  open 
ten  minutes.     Pour  them  into  a  colander;   skin  rapidly,  putting 
them  into  a  hot  dish.     Some  cooks  pour  them  from  the  boiling 
rater  into  cold  water ;  this  is  done  to  make  the  skinning  easier 
After  th:s,  the  next  step  should  be  to  throw  them  to  the  pigs,  as 
they  ah*  orb  the  water,  and  are  rendered  hard  and  sodden,  and 
unfit  for  the  table.    Serve  with  melted  butter.     Potatoes  should 
never  be  sent  to  the  table  until  the  plates  are  served  with  tho 
first  course  of  meat,  then  they  should  make  their  appearance 
smoking  hot.     The  practice  in  very  many  families  is  to  put  all 
the  vegetables  upon  the  table  at  once.     This  is  wrong.     Send 
them  as  they  are  needed,  particularly  in  cold  weather.     When 
the  ham  is  served,  send  the  cabbage  and  beans ;  serve  those  vege- 
tables  generally    relished    with   that   particular   kind   of  meat. 
With  boiled  pork,  beef,  mutton,  etc.,  send  turnips,  potatoes,  etc., 
and  so  with  the  variety  of  meats. 


403.  To  Steam  Potatoes. — Put  them  in  a  steamer,  and  set  it 
over  a  boiler ;  when  done,  leave  the  steamer  uncovered.  The 
boiler  should  be  partly  filled  with  water,  and  kept  boiling 
steadily  until  the  potatoes  are  cooked. 


404.  To  Boil  Old  Potatoes. — Boil  them  by  the  foregoing  receipt. 
Have  a  coarse  clean  towel  in  the  hand,  and  as  each  potato  is  re- 
moved, wring  it  in  a  corner  of  the  towel ;  slip  the  skin  ofT  and 
they  are  delightfully  mealy.  Serve  with  melted  butter,  on  a  hot 
iish.  When  potatoes  are  old  they  are  good  baked  and  served  in 
Ibeir  jackets.     Eat  with  cold  butter. 


405.  To  Stew  Potatoes. — Peel  and  slice  them  thin,  put  them  in 
a  stew-pan,  cover  with  sweet  milk,  or  half  milk  and  water.     But- 
ter to  season  them,  with  a  little  flour  rubbed  to  the  butter ;  add 
this  to  the  potatoes ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  stew  until  the  pota- 
9 


194  Mite,  hill's  new  cook  book. 

toes  are  soft.     They  may  be  sliced  and  stewed  in  very  little  watel 
then  dressed  with  butter  and  cream. 


406.  To  Scollop  Potatoes. — Boil,  and  mash  them  ivith  the  end 
of'  a  rolling-pin  until  perfectly  smooth;  season  highly  w  th  sell, 
ptpper,  butter,  and  two  or  three  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fin* 
(three  eggs  for  a  quart  of  mashed  potatoes);  fill  an  earthen  Jish 
with  it.  Bake  long  enough  to  form  a  slight  crust,  and  just  before 
being  sent  to  the  table. 


407.  Potato  Salad. — Mash  and  strain  the  potatoes  through  a 
colander  ;  make  them  rich  with  butter  ;  season  with  a  sauce  made 
by  mashing  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  for  a  quart;  a 
teaspoonful  of  unmade  English  mustard,  pepper  and  salt;  a  nvi 
cup  of  good  apple  vinegar;  a  teaspoonful  of  loaf  sugar  may  be 
added  to  the  vinegar;  mix  this  thoroughly  with  the  potato. 
Put  it  in  a  stew-pan  and  when  hot  serve;  ornament  the  top  with 
rings  cut  out  of  the  white  of  the  egg  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  Somo 
persons  prefer  this  cold ;  it  is  good  either  way. 


408.  To  Fry  Potatoes. — Boil  and  mash  them  ;  season  with  aalt 
and  pepper ;  make  into  cakes  as  large  as  the  top  of  a  tumbler ;  roll 
in  flour  and  fry  a  light  brown  color.  Very  little  frying  is  neces- 
sary. Serve  upon  a  napkin  placed  upon  the  bottom  of  a  flat  dish. 
They  should  not  be  piled ;  serve  as  fast  as  fried.  Cold  potatoes 
may  be  sliced  and  fried. 


409.  To  Bake  Sweet  Potatoes. — Take  them  of  the  name  size ; 
wash  them  well;  cut  off  the  ends;  put  them  in  an  oven  or  stotr*- 
pin.  For  a  peck  of  potatoes,  pour  in  the  oven  a  tumbler  of  he* 
water ;  turn  them  once  when  half  done ;  bake  slowly.  If  an  oven 
is  used,  put  lire  on  the  lid.  When  done  they  nay  be  served  in 
their  jackets,  or  peeled,  and  sl.ced  ;  put  a  layer  on  the  bottom  of  a 
shallow  earthen  dish,  then  a  few  bits  of  butter,  a  little  sugar,  a 
slight  seasoning  of  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  ;  another  layer  of  potato 


VEGETABLES.  19fl 

and  seasoning  until  the  dish  is  filled.     Set  it  in  the  oven  until  hot 
and  ser\e. 


401.  To  Roast  Sweet  Potatoes. — Sweep  a  hot  hearth  well ;  lay 
©n  the  potatoes ;  cover  with  ho',  ashes;  let  them  remain  until  ten 
er.     liish  potatoes  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


411  To  Fry  Sweet  Potatoes. — Take  large  potatoes,  peel  and 
slice  tnem ;  fry  them  in  hot  lard,  turn  often,  salt  each  piece  slignt- 
ly ;  serve  ou  a  nar  kin.     A  good  breakfast  dish. 


412.  To  Stew  Sweet  Potatoes. — Slice  them  half  an  inch  thick ; 
stew  with  pork  chops,  or  pieces  of  the  tenderloin.  Take  all  up 
together  when  done.  Season  the  gravy  with  cream,  a  little  pars- 
ley minced  fine,  salt  and  pepper. 

Potatoes  are  liked  peeled  and  roasted  under  meat.  The  large- 
sized  ones  should  not  be  used  for  this  style  of  cooking;  the 
medium  size  is  best. 


413.  Green  Peas. — Shell  them  ;  wash  them  well;  put  them  in 
a  stew-pan ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  stew  covered  until  ten 
der ;  add  salt  to  the  water.  They  should  be  boiled  fast  to  retain 
their  color;  half  an  hour  will  generally  be  sufficient  time,  but  try 
one  or  two.  Drain  off  the  water ;  pour  them  into  a  hot  covered 
dish  and  dress  with  fresh  butter.  When  a  little  old,  boil  them 
with  a  very  small  piece  of  super-carb.  soda ;  a  little  sugar  when 
they  begin  to  lose  their  sweetness.  A  double  kettle,  putting 
peas  inside  without  water,  boils  them  well.  Since  the  seasoi. 
green  peas  I  have  met  with  the  following  receipt ;  it  may  or  ma> 
tot  be  good.     Try  it. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan  with  lettuce  leaves  ;  pour  in 
the  pea? ;  add  for  each  quart  of  peas  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  salt 
U>  taste;  the  butter  being  salted,  very  little  will  be  required.  Cover 
the  8te>v  pan ;  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire ;  shake  it  frequently,  and 
once  or  twice  stir  from  the  bottom.     Should  there  be  too  little 


*96  MRS.    HILL  8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

moisture  after  cooking  a  while,  add  more  butter.     Serve  when  te* 
der ;  use  a  little  sugar  if  liked. 

414.  Hopping  John. — Pick  out  all  defective  ones  from  a  quart 
of  dried  peas  ;  soak  them  several  hours  in  tepid  watei  ;  boil  them 
with  a  chicken  or  piece  of  pickled  pork  until  the  peas  ari 
thoroughly  done.  In  a  separate  stew-pan  boil  half  as  much  rice 
dry  ;  take  the  peas  from  the  meat,  mix  them  with  the  rice,  ivy  a 
few  minutes  until  dry.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  This  may 
be  made  of  green  English  peas. 


415.  Dried  Peas. — Soak  several  hours  in  water;  pick  out  al! 
lefective  ones ;  put  them  in  hot  water ;  boil  until  tender.  Dress 
vith  butter,  or  boil  with  a  piece  of  pickled  pork ;  drain  from  the 
vater  through  a  colander  before  adding  the  butter.     Salt  to  taste. 


416.  Pumpkin. — Cut  the  pumpkin  open;  take  out  the  seed, 
out  do  not  scrape  the  inside;  peel  the  rind  off;  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Put  them  to  stew  in  a  covered  vessel,  with  very  little 
water;  stir  often  from  the  bottom,  to  prevent  its  scorching. 
When  done  it  may  be  kept  several  days  in  a  cool  place ;  use  an 
earthen  vessel.  Dress  with  butter  and  a  little  sugar  and  ginger, 
as  a  stew,  or  fry  with  a  little  sweet  lard,  or  use  for  making  pud- 
dings and  custards. 


417.  Winter  Squash  and  Cashaw — May  be  used  in  the  same 
way.  The  cashaw  is  also  good  cut  in  half,  the  seed  removed, 
baked  with  the  rind  on ;  when  done,  scrape  out  the  inside,  and 
•eason  to  taste  with  bu.ter,  pepper,  and  a  little  sugar. 


418.  Parsnips. — Scrape  them,  and  split  them  a  few  inches  oMy 
when  young ;  when  old,  slice  them.  Stew  them,  covered  with 
water,  until  tender — half  an  hour  will  be  sufficient  time  for  young 
roots;  much  longer  for  older  oi.es.  Dress  with  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper. 


VEGETABLES.  191 

419.  To  Fry  7%em.--Boil  whole  ones  until  tender.  When 
oold,  slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  season  with  salt  and  pep* 
per,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  Take  the  pieces  up  with  a  perforated 
skimmer.     Serve  hot. 


420.  Parsnip  Fritters. — Boil  enough  parsnips  to  mafce  ^w* 
tumblerfuls,  when  mashed  and  rubbed  through  the  colander  j 
season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  one  well-beaten  egg,  and  flour 
enough  to  hold  it  together  (half  a  teacup  full  will  be  sufficient)  ; 
fry  in  thick  cakes.  Serve  as  fast  as  they  are  fried.  The  sugar 
parsnip  is  best. 

421.  To  Fry  Them  in  Batter.— Make  a  thin  batter.  Boil  the 
parsnips  in  salted  water;  slice  them;  dip  the  pieces  in  batter* 
take  up  some  of  the  batter  with  each  slice.  Fry  in  boiling  laud 
a  light  brown  color. 


422.  Radishes — Are  served  in  a  raw  state.  Gather  them  early 
in  the  morning;  break  off  part  of  the  long  tap-root,  and  cut  off 
all  the  top  except  an  inch  or  two ;  wash  them  well,  and  keep  in 
ice-cold  water  until  it  is  time  to  serve  them.  Put  them  upon  a 
salad  bowl,  with  lettuce,  cresses,  etc.,  or  in  glass  stands.  The 
crimson  ones  are  highly  ornamental.  Radishes  are  more  digestible 
if  grated  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper ;  used  as  a  salad. 


423.  Spinach. — Wash  the  leaves  in  several  waters  ;  keep  it 
in  cold  water  until  it  is  time  to  put  it  to  boil.  Put  it  in  hot  water, 
slightl)  salted ;  have  just  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Cover  the 
•tew-pan,  and  boil  briskly  until  the  leaves  are  tender ;  they  will 
•ink  when  done.  Pour  into  a  colander,  and  pi  ess  the  water  out, 
wipe  out  the  stew-pan ;  cut  up  the  spinach  fine ;  put  it  in  fche  stew- 
pan;  season  with  pepper  and  butter  enough  to  make  it  rich. 
When  thoroughly  hot,  stir  the  butter  in  well,  and  serve  hot 
Have  ready  as  many  poached  eggs  a3  may  be  needed,  and  lay 
over  the  top  of  the  spinach.     Serve  upon  a  separate  pUte,  help 


llid  MRS.   full's  new  cook  BOOK. 

ing  each  plate  to  an  egg,  which  should  be  out  up  and  well  mi  led 
with  the  spinach.  Spinach  may  be  boiled  with  bacon,  but  is  not 
go  delicate.  The  dish  may  be  garnished  with  hard-boiled  eggs 
iliced,  instead  of  the  poached,  if  preferred.  When  well  aoiled 
Mid  served,  this  is  the  most  delicious  of  the  spring  greens. 


424.  —Salsify. — Scrape  the  roots  well ;  cut  off  the  tops  close 
10  the  root;  slice  them  long,  or  circular.  Stew  until  tender; 
*alt  the  water ;  dram  them  from  the  water.  Wipe  out  the  stew- 
pan  ;  return  the  salsify  to  it,  and  add  sweet  milk  enough  to  cover 
it.  To  three  trroblerfuls  of  the  salsify  add  a  piece  of  butter  as 
large  as  a  large  hen's  egg ;  rub  into  it  a  teaspoonful  of  flour ; 
season  wich  salt  and  pepper;  let  this  stew  five  minutes,  covered; 
shake  the  par.  well  twice ;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  add  vine- 
gar, to  give  a  pleasant  acid  taste.  Serve  hot,  in  a  covered  dish. 
Chis  is  called  "  mock  oyster." 


425.  Salsify  Fritters. — Scrape  the  roots ;  stew  them  until  they 
can  be  mashed  well ;  rub  them  through  a  sieve ;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  To  three  tumblerfuls  add  a  well-beaten  egg,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  half  a  tumbler  of  flour;  mix  well,  and  fry  in 
thick  cakes,  in  boiling  lard.  The  salsify  may  be  grated  without 
being  cooked.  Make  a  batter  with  one  or  two  eggs,  sour  milk, 
a  little  soda,  and  to  a  tablespoonful  of  the  batter  add  a  teaspoon- 
fill  of  the  grated  salsify;  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  upon  a  napkin 
placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  The  grated  root  has  more  of 
the  taste  of  the  vegetable  than  that  which  has  been  cooked. 


420.  Squash. — Gather  them  as  long  as  the  outside  skin  can  Xm 
easily  punctured ;  after  that  they  are  too  old.  Peel  and  slice 
them ;  keep  them  in  water  until  time  to  cook  them — from  half  on 
hour  to  three  quarters  is  sufficient,  depending  upon  the  age  and 
size.  Salt  the  water  they  are  boiled  in.  Put  them  to  cook  in 
hot  water;  keep  the  vessel  covered.  Wh^  tender,  empty  them 
u»t*>  a  colander,  and  press  the  water  out;  mas:**  the:n;  wipe  out 


vkoetahi.es.  19C 

the  stew-pan ;  return  the  squash,  and  season  with  cream,  butter 
salt,  and  pepper.  Squashes  are  al»o  very  nice  sliced,  parboiled 
antil  tender,  pressed  between  two  plates  until  dry,  dipped  in 
thin  batter,  and  fried.  Serve  them  as  fast  as  fried;  they  should 
nut  be  piled.  They  may  also  be  mashed,  and  made  intc 
fritters,  in  the  same  way  that  the  salsify  fritters  are.  Winte 
jqtashe-3  require  more  cooking,  and  should  have  the  seed  re 
moved. 


427.  Ghiinea  Squash. — Boil  the  squashes  until  the  skin  can 
easily  be  taken  off,  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  oysters.  Put  into  a 
pan  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg, 
with  a  covering  of  butter.  Then  put  on  the  squash,  and  repeat 
until  the  dish  is  full,  having  the  crumbs  on  top.  Add  a  little 
water,  and  brown  nicely. 

428.  To  Stew. — To  a  dozen  large  tomatoes  mince  a  good- 
sized  onion  (or  less  if  preferred),  and  if  the  flavor  of  onion  is  not 
Jikcd,  omit  it  altogether;  a  tablespoonful  of  good  brown  sugar 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  salt  to  taste,  a  teacup  of  bread  crumbs, 
a  large  heaped  tablespoonful  of  good  butter.  Put  in  a  covered 
stew-pan,  and  cook  an  hour;  shake  the  pan  well  and  frequently. 
Beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs,  and,  just  before  serving, 
stir  them  rapidly  to  the  tomatoes;  let  them  remain  a  minute, 
and  serve  in  a  small  tureen,  or  covered  dish.  This  is  a  fine 
accompaniment  to  all  kinds  of  baked  or  roast  meat.  Tomatoes 
are  best  cooked  a  long  while. 


429.  To  Bake  Tomatoes. — Peel  and  mince  enough  U  fill  a 
quart  dish;  season  them  with  sugar,  mace,  pepper,  salt,  and  * 
little  minced  onion.  Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  upon  the  but 
torn  cf  the  dish;  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  a  little  butter,  another 
of  bread  crumbs,  until  the  dish  is  full;  bread  crumbs  mist  be 
strewn  thickly  over  the  top ;  lay  over  bits  of  batter.  Bake  in  * 
moderate  oven,  two  hours. 


230.   To  Stuf.^-Take  very  Urge  ones;  half  them;  take  on4 


200  mks.  sill's  new  cook  book. 

highly  with  Cayenne  pepper,  salt  to  taste,  oi.ion  and  parslej 
minced  ;  stud*  with  this.  Spread  over  the  force-meat  ra\?  e^g 
and  sift  over  bread  crumbs.  Put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  slice* 
of  fresh  meat  at  the  bottom,  or  cold  ham.  Pour  over  hot  \*  ate? 
to  cover  the  meat  before  putting  in  the  tomatoes;  set  the  skir 
side  down.  Stew  hnlf  an  hour;  add  a  little  butter.  Serve  with 
or  without  the  meat,  in  a  hot,  covered  dish. 


431.  Ochra  and  Tomatoes. — Use  half  of  each;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper;  skin  the  tomatoes;  slice  the  ochra;  add  a  little 
onion ;  add  a  little  sugar  to  the  tomatoes.  Stew  without  water, 
three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut  to  each  quart  of  the  mixture,  when  first  put  in  the 
stew-pan. 

432.  Tomato  Salad. — Scald  and  peel  thorn  ;  slice  them  thin ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  a  little  onion ;  add  very  little 
vinegar. 

Tomatoes  are  excellent  seasoned  and  boiled  in  a  double  kettla 
a  long  time — for  a  quart,  two  hours.  Their  own  juice  will  be 
sufficient  fluid. 


433.  Tomato  Fritters. — Take  equal  quantities  of  tomatoes  (skin 
and  mince  fine,  and  strain  them  from  their  liquor)  and  green  corr 
very  tender  t  scrape  it  from  the  cob  with  a  sharp  knife ;  use  the 
milk  of  this.  Season  with  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper.  Add  for  a 
quart  of  the  mixture  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  tumbler  of  sweet 
milk,  and  flour  enough  to  hold  the  mass  together.  Fry  in  thick 
cakes  in  boiling  lard. 

434.  Tomato  Leather. — Mash  fine;  strain  through  a  sieve ;  add 
ft  little  sugar;  grease  panes  of  glass;  spread  over  the  mixture. 
Hid  dry.     This  can  be  used  in  soup  or  stews. 

435.  Tomatoes. — Tomatoes  may  be  kept  in  different  ways  foi 
winter  use.     Gather  them  just  ripe,  with  the  stems;  put  them  if 


VEGETABLES.  201 

a  glass  jar  and  aoverw  th  weak  vinegar;  b  ak  before  using.  To 
Dittoes  may  be  easily  kept  in  self-sealing  cans,  and  will  well  repay 
the  trouble  and  expense.  A  good  receipt  for  canning  fruits  and 
v<  g(  tables,  and  also  f  >r  bottling  them,  may  be  found  in  this  book. 
Tomatoes  may  be  kept  in  salt.  Gather  them  just  be  fere  they 
tie  fully  ripe;  keep  on  the  stems;  put  a  layer  of  salt,  then  on* 
of  tomatoes.  Keep  well  covered  in  a  cool  place.  Soak  befor* 
using. 

430.  Tomato  Paste. — Skin  and  cut  up  ripe  tomatoes ;  salt 
them  to  taste.  Let  them  stand  twelve  hours  ;  strain  them  from 
their  liquor  ;  use  this  for  catsup.  Put  the  pulp  in  a  double  ket- 
tle or  ungiazed  jar ;  season  with  sugar,  pepper,  mace,  or  nutmeg ; 
to  a  quart  of  tomatoes  add  a  tumbler  of  good  apple  vinegar. 
Stew,  stirring  frequently,  until  this  thickens  to  a  paste;  it  will 
require  two  or  more  hours,  depending  on  the  quantity  made. 
Dry  it  upon  dishes,  then  pack  in  wide-mouthed  glass  bottles ; 
cork  well  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  A  piece  four  inches  square 
will  season  a  gallon  of  soup.  It  will  be  found  to  be  verj  useful 
for  winter  soups  and  sauces. 


437.  Turnips. — Peal  and  slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  keep 
them  in  cold  water  until  the  hour  for  cooking.  Put  them  in  hot 
water  to  cover  them,  slightly  salted ;  stew  until  tender.  If  young 
it  will  require  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes ;  longer  time  for 
older  ones.  When  tender,  lay  the  slices  in  a  hot,  deep  disn ; 
pour  over  butter  to  make  them  rich ;  serve  hot. 

Another  way :  Slice  them  and  boil  with  pork ;  mash  them, 
and  rub  through  a  colander.  Put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  lit- 
tie  of  the  skimmings  of  the  pet;  salt  and  pepper.  When  thor 
fcughly  hot,  aerve.  Always  serve  on  i  separate  dish;  never  un 
der  meat. 


438.    Wate»  Creates. — Serve   raw,  with    lettuce,  parsley,  and 
radishes 


STORE   SAUCES 


439.  Tomatc  Catsup. — To  every  gallon  of  tomatoes  sliced,  add 
4*6  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  two  of  Cayenne  pepper,  two  of  black 
pepper  ground,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  of  allspice,  one  of  cin- 
namon, half  a  one  of  cloves,  two  large  onions  sliced,  one  tumbler 
of  good  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of  good  apple  vinegar,  one  large 
tablespoonful  of  ground  mustard  (a  little  garlic  is  sometimes 
used).  Put  all  these  well  mixed  in  a  stew-pan ;  simmer  gently 
four  hours.  Stir  frequently,  to  prevent  its  scorching.  Strain; 
when  cold,  bottle ;  use  new  corks.  It  is  poor  economy  to  use 
old  corks. 

Another  way :  A  gallon  of  tomatoes,  a  quart  of  apple  vinegar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  black  pepper,  three  of  salt,  three 
of  English  mustard,  two  of  mixed  spices,  a  teacup  of  onion,  a 
teaspoonful  of  Cayenne ;  boil  slowly  half  the  day ;  stir  often ; 
strain  and  bottle.  Boil  in  a  covered  stew-pan.  Never  use  a  cop 
per  or  brass  vessel  ;  iron  lined  with  porcelain  is  best. 


440.  Mrs.  A.'s  Receipt  for  Green  Tomato  Sauce. — Slice  thin  A 
peck  of  green  tomatoes.  Make  the  winter's  supply  just  before 
the  frost  falls  upon  them.  Put  the  tomatoes  in  layers,  with  salt, 
twenty-four  hours ;  drain  through  a  sieve.  Boil  in  a  gallon  of 
good  apple  vinegar  an  ounce  each  of  mace,  allspice,  black  pepper 
kalf  an  ounce  of  cloves,  a  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed,  two  of 
mustard  seed,  half  a  dozen  pods  of  green  pepper,  and  a  pound  of 
brown  su$rar.  After  the  spices  are  well  scalded  in  viregar,  strain 
it  on  the  tomatoes :  return  all  to  the  stew-pan ;  scald  them  well 
but  no  more.  Wh<m  cold,  mix  in  a  smaU  b  «  or  mm  tard  bottle, 
and  cork  well. 


8T0RE    SAUCES.  203 

441.  Chetney  Sauce  (Imitation). — Eight  ounces  of  tart  npplcs, 
the  same  of  salt;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each  of  tomatoes,  raisins, 
ami  brown  sugar;  a  tablespoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper;  gailic  and 
onion,  tablespoonful  each.  Bruise  these,  and  over  with  three 
quarts  of  good  apple  vinegar.  Grate  the  rind  of  four  lemons; 
aJd  the  juice,  removing  the  seed.  Put  in  a  jug,  set  near  the  stove, 
•nd  shake  well  twice  a  day  for  a  month.  Strain  the  juice  through 
a  flannel  bag  without  squeezing.  This  makes  an  excellent  fish 
sauce,  using  a  teaspoonful  to  a  tumbler  of  broth  or  melted  butter. 
Bottle  and  cork  well.  What  remains  in  the  bag  answers  veil  for 
u  devils,"  grills,  barbecues,  eto. 


442.  Pepper  Catsup. — Take  any  quantity  of  red  or  green  pej>. 
per  pods ;  slit  the  pods ;  boil  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  them. 
Stir  and  mash  them  while  boiling ;  strain  througli  a  colander, 
then  through  a  sieve.  To  two  quarts  of  this  pulp,  add  one  quart 
of  vinegar,  two  or  three  garlic  buttons  minced  fine,  a  small  onion 
cut  up,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  of  cloves,  the  same  of  all- 
spice. Boil  one  hour ;  if  too  thick,  add  more  vinegar.  The  red 
pods  make  a  beautiful  red  catsup. 


443.  Imitation  Worcester  Sauce. — One  gallon  of  ripe  toma- 
toes washed  and  cut  up.  Pour  over  three  quarts  of  water ;  let  it 
boil  down  half.  Stir  occasionally  to  prevent  the  torm.toes  from 
sticking.  (A  double  vessel  is  valuable  in  preparing  these  sauces.) 
Strain  through  a  sieve;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ghurer,  two  <  f 
black  pepper,  two  of  salt,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  red  pepper.  Boil 
down  to  a  quart;  add  a  tumbler  of  vinegar.  Strain,  bottle,  and 
oork  tight. 

444.  Cucumber  Catsup. — Grate  two  dozen  grown  cucumben 
and  six  silver-skinned  onions;  sprinkle  half  a  tumbler  jf  salt  upon 
them.  Prepare  them  in  the  evening,  and  early  in  th<  morning 
lay  them  on  a  sieve  and  let  them  drain.  Soak  a  teacup  of  whit* 
mustard  seed;  drain  them  from  the  water,  and  add  to  the  cucuno 


204  mr*.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

btrs  a  wineglass  cf  «  hole  pepper-ccrns.  Put  the*  in  a  jar ;  covei 
with  vinegar.  Keep  in  a  wide-mouthed  jar  in  a  cool,  dry  place  ; 
cork  well. 


415.  Dr.  Kitchiner's  Receipt  for  Mushroom  Catsup. — GatVr 
the  right  kind  in  September;  full-grown  flaps  are  best.  Put  t 
layer  of  these  rn  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  dish;  sprinkle  them 
well  with  salt;  put  alternate  layers  of  mushroom  And  salt.  Let 
them  lie  three  hours.  Pound  them  in  a  mortar;  repeat  this  for 
two  days,  stirring  them  well.  Pour  them  into  an  unglazed  jar; 
to  each  quart  add  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  black  pepper,  and  an 
ounce  of  red  pepper.  Cover  the  jar  close;  set  it  in  an  oven  in 
water;  make  the  water  boil  two  hours  steadily.  Strain  through 
a  sieve,  without  squeezing.  Put  it  in  a  stew-pan;  boil  gently 
half  an  hour;  strain  again.  Put  it  in  a  jar  to  settle,  adding  a 
tablespoonful  of  brandy  to  each  pint  of  catsup.  Rinse  half  pint 
bottles  with  brandy  before  bottling.  It  is  best  to  keep  it  in  small 
quantities.  It  must  be  well  cooked  and  sealed,  and  kept  in  a  cool, 
dry  place  Examine  it  from  time  to  time,  by  placing  a  strong 
light  behind  the  neck  of  the  bottle.  Should  any  dross  appear, 
boil  again.  A  tablespoonful  of  this  will  impregnate  a  tumblerful 
of  sauce.  After  the  juice  is  strained,  dry  the  mushrooms,  and 
make  powder.  Just  before  the  boiling  is  finished,  great  care  is 
necessary  to  prevent  the  catsup  from  burning.  A  double  kettle 
is  a  very  suitable  vessel  in  which  to  boil  these  catsups. 


446.  Walnut  Catsup.  —Take  the  walnuts  when  a  pin  will  pass 
through  them;  pound  :hem  slightly.  Put  in  an  unglazed  jar  a 
layer  of  walnuts,  and  a  slight  sprinkling  of  salt;  repeat  until  th« 
walnuts  are  disposed  of.  Let  it  stand  a  week  ;  strain  oflfthe  juice. 
To  every  gallon  add  a  pint  of  eschalot  or  onion  cut  fine,  one 
ounce  of  cloves,  the  saLie  of  mace,  allspice,  ginger,  and  black 
pepper,  and  one  clove  of  garlic  cut  up.  Boil  until  reduced  one 
third.  When  cocl,  bottle;  cork  well,  and  seal.  Keep  in  a  coot 
dry  place.     Age  improves  this. 


STORE    8AUCKP.  205 

447.  Lemon  Catsup. — Roll  well  half  a  dozer,  lemons  to  in 
mease  their  juice;  grate  oil*  the  peel ;  squeeze  out  the  juiiu  ;  re 
move  the  seed;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  horseradish,  tin 
same  of  ground  ginger,  half  as  much  mace  and  cinnamon,  one 
grated  nutmeg.  Pour  over  a  pint  of  vinegar  ;  scald  live  miuulfa 
When  cold,  strain  and  bottle.     Use  to  flavor  piquant  sauces. 


448.  Pudding  Catsup. — Mix  together  half  a  pint  of  noyau,  a 
)»int  of  Sherry  or  other  white  wine,  the  yellow  peel  of  four 
lemons  pared  thin,  and  half  an  ounce  of  mace.  Put  the  whole  in 
a  large  bottle,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  or  three  weeks;  then 
strain  it,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  capillaire,  or  strong  sugar  syrup 
of  curacoa.  Bottle  it,  and  it  will  keep  three  or  four  years.  It 
may  be  used  for  several  dishes,  but  chiefly  for  pudding  sauce, 
mixed  with  melted  butter. 


440.  Noyau. — Blanch  and  beat  a  pound  of  bitter  almonds  or 
peach  kernels;  mix  with  the  grated  rinds  of  three  lemons  three 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  one  tumblerful  of  honey,  one  gallon  of 
brandy,  one  quart  of  rose-water;  put  in  a  jug,  and  cork  tight. 
Shake  it  well  every  day  for  a  month.  Then  strain  it;  add 
another  quart  of  rose-water ;  mix  well ;  bottle  and  cork,  and 
cement  the  stopper.     Keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 


450.  Capillaire. — Eight  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  pulverized  ;  wet 
with  three  pints  of  water,  and  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Let  ii 
boil  up  twice ;  skim  and  strain  it ;  flavor  with  two  wineglasses  of 
orange-flower  water.  Bottle,  and  use  it  as  a  summer  drink  w  ith  a 
little,  lemon  juice  and  ice  water.    Sweeten  pudding  catsup  with  it. 


451.  Ratafia. — Beat  fine  a  pound  of  bitter  almonds,  one  ounoa 
of  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  one  grain  (apotheca-y)  of  am- 
bergris.    Infuse  three  weeks  in  brandy.     Strain  and  bott.e 


452.  Orgeat  —A  pleasant  drink  for  summer.    Take  half  a  pound 


206  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

of  sweet  almonds  blanched,  half  a  dozen  bittei  almonds  />r  pca<i 
kernels.  Beat  them  with  orange-flower  water  to  prevent  theii 
ailing;  add  one  tumbler  of  water,  half  a  tumbler  of  orange  flowcf 
water.  Strain  it;  add  a  ^und  of  loaf  sugar.  Boil  ten  minute*, 
md  skim.  When  cool,  bottle  it.  Use  one  tablespoonful  to  a 
jiass  of  ice  water,  or  freeze  it. 


453,  To  Make  Curry  Powder. — Three  ounces  of  oriandei 
B**d,  the  same  of  turmeric,  one  ounce  each  of  ginger,  black 
pepper,  mustard,  allspice,  and  of  cumin  and  cardamom  seed  half 
an  ounce.  Beat ;  sift  well ;  bottle,  and  cork  tight.  A  teaspoon 
fill  will  season  a  pound  of  meat.  It  is  usual  to  add  a  little  acid 
with  curries,  apple,  or  lemon  minced.  Rice  should  always  accoin 
pany  curried  meats. 

454.  Soy. — One  pound  of  salt,  two  pounds  of  sugar ;  fry  this  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly ;  one  tum- 
bler of  essence  of  anchovies,  a  dozen  cloves,  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  thyme,  sweet  basil,  and  marjoram.  Pour  over  all  thiee 
pints  of  boiling  water.  Boil  until  the  salt  is  dissolved.  When 
cold,  strain  and  bottle ;  cork  tight.  Use  to  flavor  gravies  and 
sauces. 

To  Flavor  Vinegars  for  Salads  and  Sauces. — These  are  very 
convenient  articles  for  flavoring  salads,  etc. ;  one  or  two  receipts 
will  answer  for  any  kind  of  vegetable  or  sweet  herb  liked. 


455.  Sweet  Basil  Vinegar. — Fill  a  wide-mouthed  jar  with  the 
green  leaves ;  let  it  steep  ten  days ;  strain  it  on  to  fresh  leaves ; 
steep  a  week ;  strain  and  bottle.  A  tablespoonful  will  flavor 
half  a  gallon  of  soup.  Horseradish,  cucumber,  eschalot,  mint, 
garlic-  (celery  seed  will  answer  in  place  of  the  green  celery),  are 
all  prepared  in  the  same  way.  When  making  chow,  use  tbt 
trimmings  and  peel  of  the  horseradish  to  flavor  vinegar. 


450.   Pepper  Vinegar. — Put   into  a  quart  bottle  thirty  small 


STORE    BATJCEb  2flH 

pods  of  green  or  red  pepper  (make  of  both  kirds  %epar;itcly). 
Set  the  bottles  in  an  oven  in  water ;  make  the  water  boil.  Whei 
the  peppers  are  thoroughly  hot,  pour  in  good  vinegar  to  fill  the 
bottle;  cork  tight.  In  the  centre  of  the  cork  insert  a  goose  quill 
or  reed  three  inches  long,  open  at  both  ends ;  through  this  the 
r.iiegar  may  be  poured  when  using  it.  Stop  with  a  good  oork 
*hon  not  in  use. 


457.  To  Prepare  Mustard  for  the  Casters. — Make  a  smooth 
tu*te  of  one  heaped  tablespoonful  of  mustard  flour,  half  a  tea- 
•l^oonful  of  fine  salt,  the  same  of  loaf  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls 
ol  water  or  sweet  cream.  Only  make  sufficient  to  last  two  days. 
Aj  other  way  is  :  Use  vinegar  in  place  of  the  cream.  Celery  or 
horseradish  vinegar  answers  the  purpose  well.  If  the  vinegar  is 
too  strong,  dilute  it. 

458.  Mustard  that  will  Keep  Good  a  Month. — Dissolve  three 
ounces  of  salt  in  a  quart  of  hot  vinegar;  pour  the  vinegar  hor. 
upon  a  teacup  of  horseradish.  Cover  it  closely  ;  let  it  stand  a  day 
and  night.  Make  a  smooth  paste  of  this  vinegar,  and  good 
flour  of  mustard,  beating  it  well;  put  it  in  a  wide  mouthed  glass 
bottle ;  cork  tight.  In  addition  to  these  catsup*:  sauces,  and 
vinegars,  the  store-room  should  be  supplied  with  caviare  for 
fish,  which  is  made  of  the  roe  of  sturgeon,  Worcester  sauce, 
Tarragon  vinegar,  French  mustard,  etc.,  etc.  Having  a  good 
variety  of  these,  it  will  always  be  easy  to  give  a  different  flavcr 
ing  tc  soups  and  sauces. 


459.  Brandy  (Good  French)  aad  Wine — Should  be  kept  foi 
cukes,  etc.  Steep  spices  in  it  ten  days;  strain  and  bottle;  use 
'-hrec  ounces  of  any  kind  of  spice  to  a  quart  of  wine  or  brandy; 
slightly  bruise  the  spice.  Steep  the  different  kinds  of  spices 
eeparately.  At  the  end  of  ten  days,  strain  and  bottle;  cork 
tight;  label  each  bottle.  This  is  a  neat  and  convenient  way  of 
usin^,  spices  for  seasoning.     The  tincture  of  lemon  is  made   bj 


208  MRS.    niLLS    NEW    COOK    BO)K. 

putting  the  yellow  part  of  the  lemcn  peel  into  brandy  or  wini 
until  it  is  strongly  impregnated  with  the  lemon  flavor.  Grate 
off  the  outside  of  the  lemon  upon  lumps  of  leaf  sugar;  pack  in  a 
glass  jar,  and  use  in  cakes  and  desserts. 


460.  To  Keep  Lemon  Juice. — To  every  pint  of  juic*5  (sever 
lemons  will  generally  make  a  pint — roll  well  before  squeezing) 
put  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar ;  stir  until  dissolved ;  bottle 
it  in  small  bottles ;  pour  over  the  top  of  the  juice,  after  it  is  bot- 
tled, a  teaspoonful  of  olive  oil.  When  wanted  for  use,  apply  a 
f  iece  of  cotton  until  it  absorbs  the  oil. 


461.  Chicken  Salad. — For  a  pound  of  chicken,  after  it  is 
minced,  use  six  eggs ;  boil  them  hard ;  separate  the  yolks  and 
whites ;  mash  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  back  of  a 
wooden  spoon ;  add  half  a  tumbler  of  good  sweet  olive  oil  (or 
rather  more  melted  butter),  half  a  tumbler  of  vinegar  (celery 
vinegar  is  best),  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  mustard  flour,  a 
tablespoonful  of  loaf  sugar  (dissolved  in  the  vinegar),  a  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  pepper  and  salt ;  wet  the  mustard  to  a  paste ;  stir  all 
these  together.  Mince  a  third  as  much  white  lettuce,  cabbage,  or 
celery  as  meat ;  mix  well  with  the  meat,  tossing  them  together 
with  a  wooden  or  silver  fork ;  add  the  sauce  just  before  serving. 
Garnish  with  sprigs  of  green  parsley  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cu* 
into  rings.  Salad  is  very  pretty  served  within  potato  or  rioe 
\*  alls  ornamented  tastily. 


462.  Lobster  Salad. — Boil  a  hen  lobster.  When  done,  remote 
Mie  meat  from  the  shell ;  mince  it ;  rub  the  coral  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter ;  add  the 
grated  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard, salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  wineglass  of  gor»d  cider  vinegar. 
Mix  the  sauce  well  with  the  meat;  add  a  thin?  as  much  -white 
lettuce  or  celery,  cut  up  fine  just  before  serving.  Salmon  salad 
may  bo  made  in  iho  same  way.     Garnish  with  lemon  slicer'  and 


STORE    SAUCRS.  2W 

green  parsley    or   celery.     Make  salmon  salad   with  the    *am« 
seasoning. 


463.  Meat  Jelly. — To  make  a  quart  of  this  jelly  :  Molt  it,  and 
leason  with  two  lemons  cut  in  slices,  remove  the  seed ;  a  lea- 
ipoonful  of  black  pepper,  bruised  slightly  ;  a  blade  of  mace,  stick 
if  cinnamon,  one  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  thyme,  sw<>et  ba«il 
salt  to  taste,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  vinegar,  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Let  it  stew  gently,  without  stirring 
until  the  jelly  looks  clear;  strain  once  or  twice  through  a  jelly- 
bag.  Set  a  turkey,  birds,  fish,  etc.,  intended  for  a  party-supper, 
under  this  -while  being  dripped.  Let  the  jelly  be  thick  enough 
upon  the  article  to  form  a  thin  veil ;  color  with  cochineal  a  flesh 
or  pinkish  color;  sea  green,  for  fish,  may  be  colored  with  spinach 
juice,  or  juice  from  beet  tops.  This  jelly  is  also  excellent  ii? 
Christmas  meat  pies,  salmagundi,  etc.,  intended  to  be  kept 
several  days;  it  not  only  seasons  them  finely,  but  keeps  the 
meat  moist.     It  is  highly  ornamental  as  a  garnish  for  cold  meats. 


464.  To  Bone  a  Turkey. — Clean  the  turkey ;  remove  the  in 
testines ;  cut  off  the  first  joints  of  the  legs ;  cut  down  the  back- 
bone ;  very  carefully  raise  the  meat  from  the  backboneron  each 
side;  unjoint  the  wings,  leaving  the  small  part  of  the  wing  bone; 
raise  the  meat  carefully  from  the  breast,  using  a  sharp  knife  with 
a  narrow  blade.  The  meat  being  now  detached  from  the  bones, 
and  those  unjointed,  draw  out  the  frame;  only  the  merrythought 
will  remain,  which  can  be  easily  cut  out.  Break  up  the  bones ; 
put  them  in  a  stew-pan ;  cover  them  with  cold  water,  and  stew 
while  the  turkey  is  being  stufled  with  a  rich  fcrce-meat.  First 
•tw  up  the  slit  and  any'  holes  that  may  have  been  accidentally 
made,  making  the  stitches  on  the  inner  side.  The  force-meat  may 
be  of  well-seasoned  sausage  meat,  or  veal  minced  fine,  and  sea 
toned  with  spices  to  taste,  or  with  mace  only,  or  use  sweet  herbs. 
After  it  is  stufTed,  so  as  to  Iook  as  before  *he  bones  were  re- 
moved, put  it  in  a  large  stew-pan,  that  will  just  hold  it  without 


210  MRS.    niLl's    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

cramping ;  strain  over  the  gravy  from  the  bones.  If  this  does  not 
cover  the  fowl,  add  warm  water;  add  any  vegetable  or  sweet 
herbs  liked,  several  slices  of  cold  boiled  bacon,  and  a  few  slices  of 
veal.  It  will  require  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  gentle 
•teeing.  Let  it  cool  in  the  liquor;  take  up  the  fowl;  scrape  ofl 
8m  gravy  ;  melt  and  strain  the  gravy.  Season  it  to  taste,  if  no 
already  sufficiently  seasoned;  boil  it  down  to  a  jelly.  Strain 
o*  er  the  fowl,  or  serve  around  it,  upon  the  dish. 


405.  To  Make  Tough  Meat  Tender. — If  an  old  fowl,  as  soon  as 
it  is  killed  immerse  it  with  the  feathers  on  in  a  jar  of  weak  ley ; 
let  it  remain  twelve  hours.  For  steak  and  younger  poultry,  rub 
over  the  steak  and  the  inside  of  the  fowl,  saleratus  or  soda.  To 
stew  immediately  after  killing,  cook  before  the  animal  heat  iff 
extinct. 


46(5.  To  Keep  Eggs  during  the  Winter. — Brush  them  over 
with  oil ;  pack  them  in  boxes  of  dry  charcoal ;  turn  the  small  end 
down. 

Another  way :  Oil  them ;  pack  in  boxes,  and  turn  each  egg 
twice  a  week.  If  the  eggs  are  kept  in  one  position,  the  yolk  will 
in  a  short  time  settle  upon  the  shell,  and  spoil.  Hens  understand 
this,  and  turn  over  the  eggs  upon  which  they  set  daily. 

Another  way :  Bore  auger  holes  large  enough  to  hold  the  eggs 
In  poplar  plack  (pine  will  not  answer,  it  gives  a  bad  taste  to  the 
eggs),  or  any  kind  of  seasoned  plank  that  will  not  impart  the 
peculiar  taste  of  the  plank  ;  make  shelves  of  this  plank  in  a  d  ry 
place;  brush  the  eggs  over  with  oil;  set  them  with  the  small  end 
down  in  these  auger  holes.  In  very  cold  weather,  cover  them 
with  a  double  blanket.  They  may  for  some  purposes  be  scalded 
in  boiling  water,  and  packed  in  salt,  charcoal,  or  bran,  and  turned 
frequently — or  keep  them  in  strong  brine. 

467.  Rue  Flour  Cement. — Mix  the  flour  (as  much  as  is  needed) 
with  cold  water;  pour  into  boiling  water;  let  it  simmer  until  a 
transparent  paste  is  formed.     When  cold  use  it. 


8T0RB    SAUCES.  211 

4G8.  Waterproof  Cement. — To  a  tumbler  of  sweet  milk,  put 
»s  much  good  vinegar;  scald  it  until  it  curdles;  strain  the  whey 
from  the  curds,  and  mix  the  whey  with  the  whites  of  five  eggs; 
beat  them  well  together;  add  quicklime,  sifted  through  a  sieve, 
until  the  mixture  is  of  the  consistence  of  thick  paste.  With  thii 
broken  cracks  in  vessels  of  all  kinds  can  be  mended.  It  resist* 
the  action  of  fire  and  water. 


4G9.  To  Render  Water  Soft  for  Washing.— Where  there  u 
lime  in  the  water,  this  method  of  preparing  water  for  washing 
will  be  found  useful :  Stir  a  pint  of  fresh  slacked  lime  to  a  gallon 
of  water;  let  it  settle;  pour  it  off  from  the  sediment  carefully, 
and  immediately  bottle,  and  cork  it  tight.  Add  a  tumblerful  ol 
this  lime  water  to  the  hard  water;  stir  it  well  together;  let  the 
sediments  settle ;  then  pour  off  the  water  through  a  Canton  flan- 
nel cloth. 


469£.  To  cure  Cholera  in  Poultry. — Boil  well  a  mush  of 
wheat-flour ;  add  to  one  pint,  when  coc  1,  a  t  ablespoonful  of  ker- 
osene ;  shut  the  fowls  up  ard  confine  them  to  this  food  ex/ta- 
lively  until  relieved. 


YEAST    AND    BREAD. 

'■  Wr.Ekz  s«nuld  have  the  first  place  on  our  table,  and  in  all  dU 
fmsMons  of  dietetics  and  cookery.  *  It  is  the  staff  of  life,'  th« 
main  reliance  of  the  muscle  and  bone.  *  That  person  who  habit 
uall y  eats  good  bread,'  says  a  distinguished  physician,  '  ough; 
never  to  complain  much  of  indigestion,  for  poor  bread  is  one  of 
the  principal  causes  of  dyspepsia.'  If  it  be  true,  and  I  presume 
no  reflecting  mind  doubts  it,  that  'the  highest  success  in  life  finds 
its  only  sure  basis  in  physical  vigor,  and  that  this  physical  vigoi 
depends  mainly  upon  the  quality  of  food  thrown  daily  into  that 
great  human  laboratory,  the  stomach — is  it  not  a  matter  of  para 
mount  importance  that  every  article  of  food,  especially  bread,  bo 
so  prepared  as  that  it  may  fulfil  completely  its  functions  in  the  sys 
tern  V  The  author  of  Hints  upon  Cookery  says  truly  "  a  culinary 
reform  is  demanded,"  and  very  gracefully  concludes  by  invoking 
the  aid  of  each  mistress  of  a  family  to  closely  superintend,  and,  to 
some  extent,  even  assist  in  the  preparation  of  meals,  at  least  until 
our  cooks  shall  have  become  better  instructed  and  more  skilful  than 
at  present.  What  he  says  of  his  fair  readers,  may,  I  hope,  with 
with  equal  propriety  be  said  of  mine,  that  "  they  are  not  among 
those  who  are  ashamed  to  know  how  to  make  a  loaf  of  bread  or  to 
stir  a  batch  of  biscuit  with  their  own  hands.  Even  the  kilcher 
is  a  [dace  of  dignity  and  hor.or  in  their  presence  when  love  sano 
alios  the  baking  aud  boiling."  Four  things  are  requisite  to  hav« 
gortl  bread,  viz.  good  flour,  good  yeast,  good  baking,  and  thai 
the  dough  should  be  well  kneaded. 


470.  To  Make  Hop  Yeast. — Put  a  handful  of  hops  into  a  stew. 
pan;  peel  and  slice  two  large  Irish  potatoes;  add  them  to  th« 
hops ;  pour  over  them  two  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  until  th# 
potatoes  are  soil.     Make  in  an  earthen  bowl  a  smooth  paste  of 


YEAST  AND  BREAD.  213 

%  pint  of  fl(  ur  and  cold  water.  Strain  the  ho}  tea  ipon  the  paste, 
S'.ir  it  well ;  wash  the  stew-pan,  and  pour  the  Latter  into  it. 
Simmer  ten  minutes,  and  pour  back  into  the  bowl,  and  \n  hen 
lukewarm,  add  a  teacup  of  brown  sugar  or  n:  If  as  much  syrup, 
%  tumblerful  of  good  yeast,  and  set  it  to  rise  where  it  will  be 
*  arm,  and  kept  of  a  uniform  temperature.  When  well  risen 
ruake  up  part  of  it  into  leaven.  This  is  done  by  sifting  corn 
meal,  and  pouring  in  liquid  yeast  to  make  a  rather  stiff  dough. 
Work  it  well;  roll  into  a  long  piece  as  thick  as  a  man's  wrist, 
and  cut  with  a  knife  into  thin  cakes.  Sprinkle  a  large  dish 
thickly  with  flour;  lay  the  cakes  on,  meeting  but  not  touching; 
6et  them  in  a  dry,  warm  place,  where  the  wind  will  blow  freely 
upon  them.  In  winter  they  may  be  dried  in  the  sun.  Turn 
thorn  several  times  each  day,  and  when  nearly  dry,  roll  them  to  a 
powder  with  the  rolling-pin.  Expose  them  to  the  air  till  quite 
dry,  and  pack  in  a  jar  with  a  tightly-fitting  cover.  Two  table 
spoonfuls  will  be  sufficient  for  a  quart  of  flour.  Dissolve  the 
leaven  in  a  tumblerful  of  tepid  water  or  milk  (water  is  best  in 
summer,  milk  in  winter).  Keep  the  leaven  in  a  dry  place,  well 
protected  from  the  air.  It  is  well  to  have  a  good  supply  of  this 
always  on  hand.  For  immediate  use,  put  part  of  the  yeast  into 
a  wide-mouthed  glass  bottle;  stop  loosely  until  fermentation 
ceases,  then  stop  well,  and  in  winter  keep  in  a  warm  place.  It  is 
common  error  with  cooks  to  overheat  bread  and  yeast.  A 
uniform  blood  heat  is  necessary  to  success  in  bread  making. 
Change  the  vessel  in  which  the  yeast  is  kept ;  wash  it  with  hot 
water  in  which  a  teas|Oonful  of  soda  to  a  quart  has  been  dis- 
solved. Sun  it  half  an  hour.  In  this  way  the  vessel  may  be 
ktpt  sweet  and  clean.  Peach  leaves  will  answer  for  this  yeast 
%&  well  as  hops ;  a  handful  of  leaves  to  a  quart  of  water. 


4*3 1.  Irish  Potato  Yeast. — At  twelve  o'clock  in  the  day,  mash 
very  smooth  a  boiled  Irish  potato ;  mix  with  it  a  tablespoonful 
of  liquid  yeast  or  a  teaspoonful  of  the  powdered  leaven  ;  if  n«cc* 
wiry,  use  a  little  water.     Mix  this  well  with  the  potato  in  a  soup 


214  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

plate;  turn  a  plate  over  it;  set  in  a  warm  place  if  the  weather  it 
cold.  At  night  make  up  the  breakfast  bread  with  this  piepara 
tion,  leaving  a  tablespoonful  to  start  the  yeast  again,  [f  for  tea, 
make  the  yeast  after  breakfast.  When  the  yeast  is  good  it  will 
increase  somewhat  in  bulk  and  crack  open  over  the  top.  This  ii 
simple  and  excellent  receipt. 


472.  To  Make  Bread  with  Irish  Potato  Yeast. — Sift  one  quart 
of  flour ;  rub  into  the  flour  a  piece  of  lard  as  large  as  a  hen's  egg ; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  one  egg  in  a  bowl  with  two 
level  tablespoon fuls  of  sugar ;  then  add  two  heaped  tablespoon* 
fuls  of  potato  yeast.  Beat  a  little,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the 
flour;  add  a  tumbler  of  tepid  water;  knead  the  dough  well. 
Grease  a  tin  bucket ;  put  in  the  dough,  greasing  it  slightly  on  the 
top.  Cover,  and  set  it  to  rise.  When  risen,  make  into  rolls, 
placing  them  so  as  to  touch  in  the  pan  they  are  to  be  baked  in. 
Cover,  and  when  risen  near  the  top  of  the  pan,  bake  quickly.  If 
the  weather  is  very  warm,  make  up  the  bread  between  eleven 
and  twelve  o'clock.  It  will  be  ready  to  make  into  rolls  between 
three  and  four  o'clock.     This  makes  delicious  bread. 


473.  Sweet  Potato  Yeast. — Bake  or  roast  sweet  potatoes 
(white  Bermudas  are  best)  enough  to  make  a  pint  of  potatoes 
after  being  rubbed  through  the  colander.  Pour  over  this  a  pint 
of  boiling  water,  a  pint  of  cold  water,  a  teacup  of  good  hop  yeast, 
or  half  a  cup  of  leaven  ;  mix  well  together.  Pour  it  in  a  wide- 
mouthed  jar;  stop  lightly  till  it  rises.  Keep  in  a  moderately 
warm  place  in  winter,  and  a  cool  place  in  surrmer.  The  bread 
may  be  made  up  entirely  with  this  yeast,  always  reserving  a  cup* 
ful  to  start  the  yeast.  Make  it  fresh  every  twe  or  three  days. 
Irish  potato  yeast  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 


474.  Milk  Yeast. — Early  in  the  morning  put  into  a  stew-cup, 
lined  with  porcelain  or  tin,  two  teacups  of  fresh  milk  ;  let  it  boil  up 
once,  and  then  pour  in  a  teacup  of  cold  water;  stir  in  the  milk 


YKA8T    AND    BREAD.  21fk 

one  teacup  of  corn  meal,  and  flour  enough  to  mane  a  smooth 
batter,  about  the  consistence  of  fritter  batter;  add  a  tca«poonfuJ 
of  salt.  Set  the  mixture  in  the  sun,  if  a  bright  summer  day,  or 
where  it  will  keep  of  a  regular  tepid  heat  till  risen.  As  soon  ai 
t'je  |east  rises,  make  up  the  dough  with  it  entirely.  Put  th« 
bread  in  the  oven  or  pan  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked ;  keep  it 
Eruderately  warm;  bake  as  soon  as  it  rises  sufficiently.  Bread 
made  of  this  yeast  is  very  good,  but  does  not  keep  well.  A  pint 
of  yeast  will  wet  two  quarts  of  flour.  A  little  warm  watei 
loured  in  to  rinse  the  vessel  in  which  the  yeast  was,  may  be  used 
if  necessary  in  wetting  up  the  bread.  Use  a  piece  of  lard  the 
•ize  of  a  hen's  egg  to  each  quart  of  flour.  When  the  bread  is 
done,  take  it  out  of  the  pan  and  set  it  upon  one  end.  After  re- 
maining in  this  position  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  turn  it,  and  nevei 
let  it  r»et  flat  on  anything,  until  cold,  as  the  under  part  will  absorb 
the  dampness  or  sweat,  if  there  should  be  a  hard  crust  in  eon 
sequence  of  baking  too  fast  on  the  top,  upon  removing  the  bread 
from  the  oven  wrap  it  in  a  damp  cloth,  and  set  it  up. 


475.  A  Good,  Simple  Yeast. — One  tablespoonful  of  brown 
pugar,  two  of  flour,  three  of  water ;  a  tablespoonful  of  good  hop 
yeast;  beat  them  well  together.  Make  at  least  twelve  hours  be- 
fore using  it.  A  wine-glass  of  this  will  be  sufficient  for  a  quart 
of  liour.  It  may  be  kept  up  by  adding  water,  sugar,  and  flour  ua 
fct  firat.     Occasionally  change  the  vessel. 


476.  Magic,  or  Cold  Yeast. — This  yeast  is  superior  to  any  I 
have  ever  used,  in  warm  or  even  moderately  warm  weather. 
Is  more  reliable,  and  less  troublesome.  I  confidently  recommend 
It  after  long  experience  in  its  use.  Take  one  cup  of  fresh  sweet 
milk,  one  of  cold  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  nice  sugar,  and  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  flour ;  make  it  in  a  covered  jar  or  mug,  and 


216  MBS.    HILLS  NEW  COOK  ROOK. 

the  (hird,  add  two  more  tab.espoonfuls  (even  full)  )f  sugar  and 
ts\o  ceaspoonfuls  of  salt ;  set  it  away  as  at  first  until  11  o'clock. 
MaKe  up  rolls,  or  any  kind  of  bread  liked;  bake  when  light; 
aaless  tea  is  very  early,  the  bread  may  be  made  still  later,  and 
Sist  put  down  in  a  lump,  and  when  this  rises  mould  it,  and  bake 
it  the  second  rising.  To  continue  the  yea^t  from  day  to  day, 
when  the  batch  of  dough  is  made  at  eleven,  stir  the  yeast  well 
before  pouring  it  into  the  flour;  reserve  a  teacup  until  next 
morning ;  then  add  to  it  a  teacup  of  water,  a  tablespoonful  of 
Bugar,  and  flour  enough  for  a  batter  of  the  consistence  of  that 
first  made.  It  will  be  ready  at  the  time  it  is  needed.  If 
more  is  required,  use  more  water — the  milk  is  only  used  in 
starting  the  yeast.  Change  the  vessel  every  two  days.  If  the 
yeast  becomes  a  little  sour,  stir  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda; 
should  it  look  brisk  and  lively  after  the  soda  is  stirred  in,  the 
yeast  is  good  ;  if  not,  discard  it,  and  make  fresh  yeast.  In  very 
cold  weather  the  yeast  and  dough  must  be  put  on  the  hearth, 
though  not  very  near  the  fire.  This  yeast  requires  so  little  time 
to  raise  bread,  that  for  breakfast  I  set  a  sponge  at  nine  o'clock  at 
night,  and  make  the  bread  early  in  the  morning.  A  sponge  is 
?et  in  this  way :  Take  a  tumblerful  of  sweet  milk  or  cold  water 
oue  of  the  magic  yeast,  pour  them  (well  stirred)  into  a  small  jar 
beat  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  not  very  thick ; 
remove  the  spoon,  sprinkle  flour  over  the  top  of  the  batter 
cover  it  well,  and  if  the  weather  is  warm,  put  it  in  a  cool  place. 
Early  in  the  morning,  taste  the  batter;  if  at  all  acid,  stir  in  a 
little  soda;  make  into  dough,  either  for  Sally  Lunn,  French  rolls, 
or  in  any  way  preferred,  adding  a  small  piece  of  lard,  or  buttei, 
and  an  egg  if  liked ;  mould  the  dough ;  let  it  set  until  it  rises ; 
bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven.  The  dough  must  be  well  workea 
at  first  until  it  blisters,  pulling  it  to  pieces,  and  w  rking  in  the 
flour  slowly,  and  until  the  dough  is  a  little  stiff.  1  "ever  add  a 
particle  of  flour  when  working  bread  the  second  time  (deem- 
ing it  unwise  to  throw  in  fresh  material  after  fermentation  hat 
oomnifc,*ced),  and  only  handle  it  enough  to  mould. 


TEA8T    AND    BREAD,  217 

477.  To  Set  a  Sponge  for  Light  Rolls  with  Yeast  that  ltt~ 
quires  to  be  Kept  Warm. — Into  a  pint  of  tepid  water,  or  fresh 
sweet  milk,  beat  as  much  sifted  flour  as  will  make  a  stiff  batter; 
•dd  a  tumblerful  of  lively,  brisk  yeast;  stir  all  well ;  sprinkle 
flc  ur  on  the  surface  of  the  batter;  cover  well,  and  set  it  to  rise. 
V\  hen  the  sponge  rises  so  as  to  make  cracks  through  the  flour, 
•p .-inkle  over  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  beat  into  the  sponge  a' 
tumbler  of  tej  id  water ;  in  another  vessel  beat  up  two  eggs  well ; 
pour  part  of  the  sponge  to  the  eggs  until  a  smooth  batter  is 
formed  (a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  may  be  used  if  liked) ;  then  stir 
the  egg  into  the  remainder  of  the  sponge;  beat  all  well  together. 
Sift  two  quarts  of  flour;  rub  in  well  one  tablespoonful  of  lard, 
the  same  of  butter ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour ;  pour 
in  the  yeast;  work  the  flour  in  gradually;  knead  the  dough  well, 
cew  persons  are  aware  how  much  the  grain  of  the  bread  is  im- 
proved by  being  well  worked.  Never  wet  up  all  the  flour  at 
once  ;  reserve  a  third  to  work  in ;  sprinkle  the  flour  on  the  board  ; 
work  it  in  the  dough  well.  Pull  the  dough  to  pieces ;  turn  it  in- 
side out;  work  again;  each  time  sprinkling  the  flour  upon  the 
board  until  it  is  all  worked  in,  and  the  dough  looks  light  and 
spongy.  Grease  a  pan ;  mould  the  dough  either  in  long,  round, 
or  twisted  rolls  ;  lay  them  in  the  pan,  so  that  they  will  touch ;  let 
them  rise.  If  the  sponge  is  good  it  will  not  require  over  half  an 
hour  to  raise  the  dough  after  it  is  moulded.  Bake  iu  rather  a 
quick  oven.  Should  the  oven  or  stove  be  too  hot,  lay  over  the 
bread  a  sheet  of  paper;  should  a  hard  crust  form,  the  bread  will 
not  be  light.  When  a  sponge  is  set,  the  dough  should  only  rise 
wot ;  when  made  without  a  sponge,  it  nrist  rise  first  undivided, 
th:?n  moulded,  and  set  to  rise  the  second  time.  Every  kitchen 
ii  >uld  be  supplied  with  a  smooth  popiar  or  marble  board,  upon 
*1  iuh  the  bread  should  be  worked,  first  mixing  in  a  tray  until 
th  >  dough  is  cleared  from  the  hands;  then  flour  the  board  well, 
an  1  work  as  directed.  It  requires  some  experience  to  know  when 
to  uork  the  dough  the  second  time,  for  if  allowed  to  rise  too  long 
it  will  lose  its  sweetness,  without  always  becoming  sour.     When, 


218  MR8.    ITILI'S    NEW    OOOK    DOOR. 

unfortunately,  the  dough  is  permitted  to  remain  until  sour,  pull 
it  open,  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  for  a  quart  of  flour,  ir 
a  wineglass  not  quite  full  of  warm  water*  pour  over,  and  work 
in  well. 


478.  To  Know  when  the  Oven  or  Stove  is  Hot  Enough  /» 
Baking. — Sprinkle  in  a  little  flour;  A  it  turns  slowly  a  good 
brown  color,  the  oven  is  right;  if  it  burns  immediately,  it  is  too 
hot.  Leave  the  door  of  the  stove  open  a  few  minutes  to  allow  it; 
to  cool.  It  will  be  right  when  you  can  hold  your  hand  in  to 
count  twenty.  But  this  is  not  a  reliable  rule,  since  somepersoni 
endure  heat  better  than  others.  Baking  may  be  done  in  the  stove, 
in  a  brick  or  iron  oven ;  if  a  brick  oven  is  used,  kindle  the  fire 
when  the  dough  is  put  to  rise ;  by  the  time  the  bread  has  risen, 
the  oven  will  be  ready;  when  the  oven  is  hot  enough,  clean  it  out, 
and  give  the  dust  a  few  moments  to  settle  before  putting  the 
bread  in.  When  an  iron  oven  is  used,  set  the  bottom  side  up 
before  the  fire  until  well  warmed ;  in  putting  coals  under,  mash 
the  larger  ones  with  the  back  of  the  shovel,  that  all  may  be  of 
the  same  size ;  where  one  or  two  larger  coals  than  the  rest  are 
left  under  the  oven,  cake  or  bread  is  very  apt  to  bake  with  large 
holes,  or  as  cooks  express  it,  "  blow  up  "  in  holes.  At  first  the; 
heat  should  be  strongest  at  the  bottom  of  the  oven ;  put  the  ovei 
lid  on  cold,  or  slightly  warm ;  cover  it  with  hot  embers ;  heal 
gradually.  Baking  can  only  be  learned  by  experience.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  heat  the  flour  very  hot  before  making  it  up.  After 
silling,  I  always  place  the  flour  well  spread  in  the  sun,  or  befort 
the  fire,  taking  care  it  does  not  scorch. 


479.  French  Rolls. — One  quart  of  flour,  one  or  two  eggs  beateB 
Vith  an  even  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  dissolve  a  yeast  cake,  or.  if 
Che  leaven  is  pulverized,  two  tablespoon  fills  in  a  tumbler  of  tepid 
water;  stir  this  well,  and  pour  it  to  the  eggs.  Sift  the  flour  into 
the  tray  ;  reserve  a  thrrd  of  it  to  work  into  the  dough  after  the 
flour  is  wet  up.     Into  the  remainder  of  the  floui   sprinkle  a  tea 


1CA8T    AND    BREAD.  2)9 

•poonful  of  salt,  and  rub  in  well  a  heaping  tablcspoonful  of  buttei 
or  lard;  pour  the  yeast  in,  and  stir  the  flour  in  gradually. 
When  the  dough  can  be  rubbed  from  the  hands,  flour  the  board 
zr  bottom  of  the  tray,  and  begin  to  work  the  dough  upon  it ; 
sprinkle  down  more  flour;  pp.11  the  dough  to  pieces;  repeat  thu 
intil  all  the  reserved  flour  is  in ;  continue  to  work  the  dough 
mlil  it  feels  light  and  spongy  tc  the  touch.  The  dough  foi  light 
rolls  should  be  softer  than  for  loaf  bread.  Grease  the  pan  ia 
which  tfie  bread  will  be  put  to  rise ;  lay  the  dough  in ;  press  it 
down  with  the  hand  until  it  covers  the  bottom;  lightly  touch  it 
over  with  lard,  to  prevent  a  crust  from  forming.  Throw  a  clean 
towel  over.  Set  it  to  rise  where  it  will  be  kept  moderately 
warm.  When  it  has  risen,  immediately  take  it  from  the  pan,  and 
roll  it  in  a  round  strip ;  pull  it  into  pieces  of  uniform  size  (and 
never  very  large)  ;  mould  them  into  long  or  round  shapes ;  grease 
Jie  pan  slightly  in  which  they  are  to  be  baked  ;  lay  the  rolls  in, 
touching.  Let  them  rise  again,  which  should  be  in  half  an  hour; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven,  not  hot  enough,  however,  to  blister  or  burn. 


480.  Secession  Biscuit. — These  are  made  precisely  the  same  aa 
light  rolls,  only  moulded  differently.  After  the  second  rising, 
grease  the  bottom  of  the  oven  or  pan  in  which  they  are  to  be 
baked;  work  each  piece  of  dough  separately,  and  make  them  as 
common  soda  biscuit  are  shaped;  lay  them  in  the  oven  or  pan; 
they  should  not  touch.  Let  them  rise  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  They  are  not  so  good  when  permitted  to 
itaud  any  length  of  time. 


481 .  Potato  Bread. — Rub  half  a  dozen  Irish  potatoes,  peeled, 
.through  a  coarse  sieve;  mix  them  thoroughly  with  twice  the 
quantity  of  flonr ;  add  me  Qggt  a  tablcspoonful  of  butter,  a  tcaspcou- 
ful  of  salt,  a  tumbler  of  tepid  water  or  fresh  sweet  mi.lr.  in  which 
has  been  dissolved  a  tablcspoonful  of  'eaven  ;  make  a  smooth  dough ; 
irfter  being  well  risen,  mould  iuto  loa/es  or  lo*ig  rolls;  let  ther  ^n$ 
%jakr  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven.     This  I  read  keeps  woT 


220  MKh     lilLI/S    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

482.  Sally  Lunn,  J\rr  I. — Into  one  quart  of  sifted  flour  rub  t 
large  heaped  tablespoonful  of  butter,  or  half  butter  and  laia,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Into  a  pint  bowl  break  two  eggs ;  beat  them 
teveral  minutes ;  pour  to  them  a  teacup  of  good  yeast.  Make  • 
bole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour  (reserve  a  tumbler  of  the  Aran 
before  rubbing  in  the  shortening) ;  pour  in  the  yeast  and  egg 
After  stirring  them  together  well,  work  the  flour  in  unt'l  a  soft 
dough  is  formed ;  sprinkle  the  board ;  work  the  dough  well  until 
the  reserved  flour  is  all  in,  pulling  the  dough  to  pieces. 
When  more  wetting  is  needed  in  first  making  the  dough,  use 
tepid  sweet  milk  in  winter,  water  in  summer.  When  the  work- 
ing is  finished,  the  dough  should  be  rather  soft.  Let  this  rise  in 
a  lump.  Divide  the  dough  in  four  equal  pieces ;  roll  the  same 
*ize.  Grease  two  shallow  pans ;  on  the  bottom  of  each  lay  a 
piece  of  the  dough ;  spread  over  the  surface  a  thin  coat  of  lard. 
Lay  over  the  remaining  pieces  of  exactly  the  same  size  and 
thickness.  Care  should  be  taken  to  make  them  fit  well.  Fold 
the  dough  as  it  is  lifted  from  the  board ;  lay  half  on  first,  then 
.he  other  half;  throw  over  a  clean  towel ;  set  the  pans  where  the 
dough  will  keep  at  an  even  temperate  warmth.  When  riseu, 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Take  them  from  the  pans ;  shake  gently 
the  pieces  apart;  butter  the  bottom  piece  well  by  laying  over 
slices  of  fresh  butter;  replace  the  top  pieces;  cut  in  slices;  serve 
warm.  The  slices  should  not  be  removed  when  put  upon  the 
vable.  but  cut  for  convenience  of  serving. 


488.  Sally  Lunn,  No.  2. — Take  a  small  tumbler  of  new  milk 
trd  boil  it.  When  cool,  add  to  it  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  cake  of 
leaven  (dissolve  this  in  the  milk),  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
«ti!f  baiter.  Make  it  up  at  nine  o'clock  at  night;  next  morning 
ptir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  meited  butter;  grease  a  mculd ;  pour  in 
til?  batter,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise;  when  well  risen,  put 
it  u>  bake.  You  can  add  sugar  and  spice,  and  make  this  a  sweet 
caKe  if  you  like.  If  at  all  sour,  stir  ji  a  lit  iv.  soda,  dissol  ed  in  • 
tablespoonful  of  warm  water. 


TEABT    AND    BREAD.  221 

484.  Sally  Lvnn  No.  3. — One  qua-  t  of  fining  three  °gg3,  ore 
tablespoonful  of  butter ;  add  half  a  cup  of  good  yeast.  Mix  a' 
ten  o'clock  a.  m.,  for  tea,  as  soft  as  you  can  w»th  the  hands. 


485.  Receipt  for  Split  Rolls. — One  egg,  one  tablespoonful 
ugar  well  beaten  together,  and  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  t 
of  warm  milk;  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Set  to  rise  a 
ten  o'clock  in  winter  and  twelve  in  summer ;  then  work  a  hoapii  ^ 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  flour  enough  to  make  up  the  yeast ;  roll 
out  the  dough  an  inch  thick,  and  spread  butter  on  it;  fold  it  in 
half,  and  cut  any  shape  you  fancy.  Let  them  rise  in  the  pan  in 
which  they  are  to  be  baked.  Bake  quick.  Take  a  piece  of  thi? 
dough,  roll  it  thin,  cut  in  any  shape  liked,  fry,  and  serve  imme- 
diately.    (Excellent. ) 


486.  Sally  Latin  without  Yeast. — One  quart  of  flour,  one  tea- 
cup of  butter — lard  will  answer — salt  to  taste.  Two  eggn  beateu 
separately,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Melt  the  butter,  stir  well  to 
the  yolks,  then  the  whites  beaten,  alternately  flour  and  milk. 
Two  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder.  Grease  a  pan,  bake, 
and  serve  immediately. 


487.  Bread  without  Yeast. — Take  so  much  milk  or  warm 
water  as  will  wet  up  the  flour  you  wish  to  use.  Salt  rather  more 
than  is  used  for  common  bread.  Stir  in  flour  to  make  a  past  e 
about  as  thick  as  griddle-cake  dough.  Put  this  paste  in  a  tin 
bucket,  and  set  in  a  pot  of  warm  water  near  the  hearth  or  stow 
where  the  water  will  keep  about  milk  warm.  Thi3  will  give  the 
paste  an  even  temperature.  Ir.  four  or  five  hours  this  well  rise,  and 
foam  like  yeast.  Pour  it  into  your  tray,  and  work  in  floai 
enough  to  make  bread.  Put  in  the  pans  they  are  to  be  baked  in, 
»nd  set  them  in  a  warm  place.  Cover  with  paper  or  cicth,  and 
let  them  rise ;  when  risen,  rake  in  a  quick  oven. 


4  47£.  Yeast  Powder. — Take  one  pound  of  cream  y(  tartar, 
half  pound  of  soda,  the  same  of  crushed  sugar,  and  half  pound  ol 
flour  ;  sifti  inese  we'J  together ;  put  in  an  air-tight  vessel.  Use 
two  teaspoonfuls  to  one  quart  of  flour. 


222  ME«     niL»*S  NEW   COOK   BOOK. 

488.  Polato  Biscuit. — Boil  tw,>  good-sized  Irish  pctatoei ,  jiee 
and  mash  them  fine;  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  UmLtsiful 
of  boiling  water.  When  wpid,  add  a  teacup  of  good  yeast ;  let 
It  rise  until  light,  then  add  another  tumblerful  of  warm  water, 
with  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  ;  work  it  well  ana  uiaks 
4nto  biscuit ;  put  them  in  a  pan  not  very  deep,  and  do  not  press 
fcheni  too  close  together ;  spread  over  a  towel,  and  when  suffi- 
ciently light,  bake  tjuick  and  serve  immediately. 


489.  Light  Bread. — To  three  pints  of  sifted  flour,  pour  one 
pint  of  tepid  milk  or  water  and  a  tumbler  of  good  yeast.  Beat 
well  and  set  it  to  rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place ;  make  this  at 
light.  In  the  morning,  stir  to  the  sponge  a  pint  of  warm  water 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt;  work  in  as  much  flour  as  will  make 
a  rather  stiff  dough.  Work  it  well ;  mould  it  into  loaves  ;  let  it 
rise ;  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven.  Use,  when  cold,  for 
dinner-bread.     It  makes  good  toast  when  stale. 


490.  Crumpets. — One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  one  large  tumbler  of 
sweet  milk  (warm  the  milk);  beat  in  a  bowl  two  eggs;  stir  tc 
them  one  small-sized  teacup  of  good  yeast.  Make  a  stiff*  batter 
of  the  flour,  eggs,  and  milk,  beating  all  well  together.  Sprinkle 
jver  the  top  a  slight  coat  :>f  flour;  leave  the  vessel  (covered) 
where  the  batter  will  rise.  Grease  and  heat  the  batter-cake  grid 
die;  pour  on  a  large  tablespoonful;  bake  rather  slowly;  when 
I>>ne  on  one  side,  turn.  Butter  and  send  to  the  table  hot.  Very 
few  cooks  manage  the  buttering  well.  They  either  put  on  enough 
t*>  render  the  cakes  disgustingly  rich,  or  butter  unequally,  or  put 
the  butter  in  a  tin  vessel,  place  it  on  the  stove  or  fire  until  it  turns 
tc  oil,  and  then  pour  it  profusely  over  the  cakes.  In  but'ering,  as 
the  cakes  are  removed  one  by  one,  lay  over  each  very  tnin  slices 
of  cold  butter.  It  should  be  done  on  the  gridiron,  piling  them  a 
*hey  are  buttered ;  immediately  transfer  them  tc  a  hot  plate,  and 
serve.  The  taste  of  oiled  butter  is  very  disagreeable,  and  should 
never  be  used  for  cakes  or  waffles.     If  it  is  preferred  to  have  tht 


TEAST    AND    1JKEAD. 


2'23 


ottei  warm,  put  't  in  a  small  well-tinned  sauce-pan,  and  place  thii 
iu  a  "  bain  marie  "  or  hot  water  both,  or  put  the  butter  in  a  deep 
plate  and  set  it  over  a  vessel  of  hot  water. 


491.  Flannel  Cakes. — Put  a  quart  of  sweet  milk  in  a  stew-pan 
get  on  the  stove  to  warm ;  drop  into  it  a  large  tablespoonfu 
of  butter;  or  a  little  less  lard.  Beat  up  four  eggs  well;  pour  U 
them  a  tumbler  or  half  a  pint  of  good  -brisk  yeast ;  then  the 
milk,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  let  it  rise. 
Just  as  you  are  ready  to  fry  them  on  the  griddle,  if  at  all  sour, 
strew  over  the  surface  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  finely  pulverized ; 
beat  it  in,  and  fry  immediately.  In  all  the  receipts  given  for 
crumpets,  flannel  cakes,  etc.,  the  cold  yeast  may  be  used  unless  the 
the  weather  is  very  cold.  Very  excellent  cakes  may  be  made  by 
taking  a  teacup  of  dough  from  the  breakfast-bread.  Rub  the 
dough  to  a  batter  with  milk  ;  beat  up  an  egg  ;  melt  and  stir  to  the 
egg  a  teaspoonful  of  hard  butter  ;  add  flour  to  make  a  batter  as 
stiff  as  for  flannel  cakes ;  fry  in  the  same  way,  or  make  it  a 
little  stiffer ;  let  it  rise,  and  bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  quick  oven. 
If  at  all  sour,  stir  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  just  as  it  is  put  to 
bake.     This  batter  may  be  baked  in  muffin-rings. 


492.  Raised  Waffles,  No.  1. — Make  a  batter  rather  stiff,  with 
three  tumblers  of  sweet  milk,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  as  much  melted  lard  as  can  be  dipped  up  in  a  tablespoon, 
and  a  tumbler  of  good  yeast.  Beat  the  flour  in  gradually  until  a 
stiffish  smooth  batter  is  formed.  Set  it  to  rise  ;  when  well  risen, 
heat  the  irons ;  grease  them  slighly ;  pour  in  batter  enough  to  fill 
them,  but  not  to  overflow ;  put  them  on  a  bed  of  coals ;  turn  ia 
two  or  three  minutes.  Bake  on  the  reverse  side  in  the  same  way 
Slip  the  wafHe  from  the  irons  on  to  a  warm  plate  and  butter  it.  Have 
a  stew-pan  of  hot  water  on  the  stove ;  set  the  plate  over  the  mouth  of 
it  until  two  or  three  are  baked,which  should  be  done  as  expeditiously 
as  possible.  Send  to  the  table,  and  continue  to  send  this  number 
antil  All  the  batter  is  used.     This  is  a  much  better  plan  than  to 


Z24  MRS.   hill's  new  cook   BOOff, 

bake  ard  send  all  at  once.     Though   a  delightful  cake  irien  wcL 
made  and  eaten  fresh,  it  will  soon  spoil  by  standing. 


493.  Rice  Waffles,  No.  2. — Beat  together  two  eggs;  a  tea 
ipoonful  of  salt.  Into  another  pan  mash  smoothly  a  teacup  of 
Warm,  well-boiled  rice.  Stir  to  this  until  melted,  a  Ua«po<>nru1 
of  lard ;  add  alternately  a  tumbler  of  sweet  milk  and  flour,  tc 
make  a  batter  rather  stiff;  mix  all  together  well.  It  requires  an 
equal  quantity  of  flour  with  the  rice. 


493 J.  Unbolted  Flour  Waffles. — One  pint  of  unbolted  Horn, 
one  pint  of  sour  railk,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  tlneo  well 
beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


494.  Rice  Waffles,  No.  3. — Put  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  in  tl.c  stew 
pan;  a  teacup  of  boiled  rice;  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  b\»!.ter; 
as  soon  as  the  butter  melts, take  the  pan  from  the  fire;  beat  four  egga 
well,  and  stir  to  them  alternately — making  a  smooth  batter-  -\  n« 
milk  and  one  quart  of  sifted  flour ;  salt  to  taste.    Bake  and  servr.  hot. 


495.  Rice  Flour  Waffles,  No.  4. — Make  half  a  tumbler  of  nice 
corn  meal  mush.  While  it  is  warm,  stir  to  it  a  desscrkspoonf'U 
of  butter.  Make  a  smooth  batter  by  beating  in  well  two  eggf 
one  pint  of  rice  flour,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  in  witt 
the  flour,  and  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter ;  salt  to  taste 
Just  before  baking,  stir  in  two  tcaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
previously  dissolved  in  warm  water.  This  is  an  excellent  receipt 
for  a  batter-bread.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  a  pan  twp  or  three 
inches  deep.     Eat  hot. 

496.  Quick  Waffles,  No.  5. — One  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  pint 
rt  sifted  flour,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  lara,  a  largt 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Send  them  to  the  table  as  fast  as  baked. 
They  are  very  light  and  good  while  fresh,  but  spoil  very  soon  if 
permitted  to  stand. 

*m    Sweet    Potato    Waffle?     No  « — Two    ♦*Wp«r»nnnfu1o    ^' 


TIABT    AND    BR£Ar.  225 

mashed,  baked  sweet  potato,  one  of  butter,  stirred  to  the  potato 
while  hot,  one  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  six  table 
tp xmfuls  of  sifted  flour ;  mix  well,  and  bake.  These  may  b« 
made  without  the  egg,  using  four  tablespoonfuls  cf  flour. 


VjS.  Mush  or  Hominy  Waffles,  No.  7. — One  pint  of  hominy 
or  a  teacup  of  mush,  half  a  pint  of  flour,  two  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, an  even  tablespoonful  of  lard  stirred  to  the  hominy;  add 
■wee.  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter ;  salt  to  taste. 


409.  Mrs.  IPs  Waffle  Receipt,  No.  8.— One  pint  of  flour,  a 
handful  of  corn  meal ;  sift  them  together.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs;  make  a  batter  of  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
and  the  mixed  flour  and  meal ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  after 
it  is  melted,  then  pour  all  to  the  beateu  eggs;  stir  well  together; 
salt  to  taste.     Bake  quick  ;  serve  hot. 


500.  Muffins,  No.  1. — One  pint  and  a  half  of  sweet  milk 
warmed,  a  piece  of  lard  or  butter  the  size  of  a  large  hen's  egg 
melted  in  the  milk,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  (even  full  and  well  pulverized).  Beat  up  with 
three  eggs  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  make  to  the  eggs  a  batter 
wif  h  the  milk  and  flour  alternately,  to  form  a  stiff  batter — so  stirt 
ae  to  be  just  able  to  beat  it;  stir  in  a  tumblerful  of  good  yeast; 
set  the  batter  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  well  risen,  beat,  it 
down;  let  it  rise  again;  be  careful  not  to  disturb  it  after  the 
tecond  rising  more  than  is  uecessa-y  to  pour  it  into  the  muflin 
pans.  The  pans  should  be  prepared  by  greasing,  and  la)  ing 
tb«  m  upon  the  bottom  of  a  stove- pan  which  has  been  greased,  or 
to.  iron  oven.  In  either  case,  the  oven  or  pan  should  be  weL 
warmed  at  the  bottom  before  the  batter  i*  poured  \l. 


501.  Muffins,  No.  2. — A  pint  and  a  half  of  floui  one  pint  of 
•weet  milk,  three  eggs,  one  yeast  cake  (three  inches  square)  di* 
•olved  in  the  milk  •   let  it  rise.     Just,  before  baking,  beat  in  i 

lo* 


226 

teaspooi  ful  cf  sugar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  nod*',  bake  m  a 
quick  oven. 


502.  Muffins,  No.  3. — Three  tumblers  oc  sifted  flour,  three  egg* 
beaten  well  together,  a  tumbler  half  full  of  melted  lard  or  butter 
tab  tc  taste,  one  tumbler  of  sweet  milk,  a  yeast  cake  as  large  as 
the  top  of  a  tumbler.  Set  the  batter  to  rise.  When  risen,  po  if 
in  muffin-rings ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


503.  Muffins,  No.  4. — One  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of 
hard  butter;  soften  it,  by  placing  the  vessel  containing  it  on  the 
stove ;  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  wineglassfuls  of  good  brisk 
yeast ;  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  When  it  rises,  pour  into  the 
email  pans. 

504.  Yeast  Muffins. — One  quart  of  flour,  one  half  teacup  of 
feast,  one  pint  of  new  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter  added  last,  salt.      When  light,  bake. 


505.  Gems. — One  cup  of  milk,  one  of  hot  water;  stir  in 
Graham  flour  quite  stiff,  beat  well,  salt.  Grease  and  heat  gem 
pans,  drop  in  from  a  spoon  ;  bake  quick. 

500.  Muffins  without  Yeast,  No.  6. — Beat  separately  three  eggs , 
make  a  smooth  batter,  by  mixing  a  pint  of  flour  with  the  eggs, 
and  adding  half  a  pint  of  sweet  mill ,  or  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter;  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg;  salt  to  taste.  Heat  the 
oven  or  pan  in  which  the  muffins  a  *e  to  be  baked ;  grease  t  he 
pans  ;  place  them  upon  the  pan.  D  ssolve  in  half  a  wineglass  of 
warm  water  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar;  stir  this  to  the 
batter,  and  just  before  pouring  the  batter  into  the  pans,  stir  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Bake  quick,  without  blistering.  When 
eaten,  they  should  be  torn  open.  To  cut  them  open  with  a  knife, 
Is  an  offence  so  grave  that  the  cook  will  find  it  difficult  to  forgive* 
rhe  batter  *br  raised  or  ye-.ist  muffins  should  be  thi'k ;  it  become* 


TEAST    AND    BREAD.  221 

thinner  by  fermentation.  When  made  of  soda,  let  the  batter  1* 
thinner,  and  always  beat  the  eggs  separately,  which  is  not  neces 
sary  when  yeast  is  used.  Very  good  muffins  may  be  made  by 
using  fewer  eggs.  To  one  quart  of  flour,  measuied  after  sifting, 
mix  a  tcaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  or  a  little  more  if 
r«:eessary  ;  twe  eggs  beaten  separately,  the  whites  added  last ;  hall 
5  teacup  of  melted  butter,  or  a  little  less  lard.  Dissolve  two  tea 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  in  warm  water ;  stir  it  in,  and  then 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  thin  batter;  bake  quick. 


506.  Corn  Meal  Muffins,  No.  7. — One  pint  of  sifted  corn  i^eal, 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  after  benig 
melted,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  as  much  sour  milk  as  will  make  a 
batter  the  consistency  of  pound-cake  batter.  Bake  with  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven  in  muffin-rings. 


507.  Mixed  Muffins,  No.  8. — Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  pint  of  flour,  the  same  of  corn  meal, 
eifted  together,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard;  salt  to  taste. 

508.  Hominy  Muffins,  No.  9 — Mrs.  W.  ys  Receipt. — Two  eggs, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  hominy,  with  a  level  tablespoonful  of 
melted  lard  stirred  in,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  corn  meal,  two 
of  flour,  salt  to  taste,  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Bako  in 
•mall  pattie-pans  in  a  quick  oven. 


609.  Dabs. — One  pint  of  corn-meal,  two  eggs,  a  small  dessert- 
»l*oonful  of  lard,  a  wine-glass  of  milk ;  scald  the  meal,  and  while 
hot,  rub  in  the  lard ;  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  add  them  to 
the  meal ;  stir  ix,  the  milk,  and  a  little  salt.  Drop  the  mixture 
from  a  spoon  upon  a  tin  sheet;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


510    Batter-Br  iad  without  Eggs. — Two  tuinblertufs  cf  sifted 
oorn-ineal  (oven  full),  two  of  buttermilk,  :>no  tcaspoonfu,  cf  sal^ 


228  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut  melted  and  stirred  in ;  grease 
a  stove  pan  (H  must  be  shallow),  and  just  before  pouring  in  the 
batter,  stir  in  half  a  tumbler  of  tepid  water,  a  teaspoonful  c  'soda 
dissolved  in  it.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


51  Breakfast  Cakes. — Dissolve  a  yeast  cale  two  inchet 
square ;  or  a  heaping  tablespoonful  if  powdered,  and  the  leaven 
is  very  good  (use  a  little  more  if  the  yeast  has  been  made  some 
time),  in  half  a  teacup  of  warm  water.  Take  a  pint  of  fresh  milk, 
and  with  flour  make  a  soft  dough;  set  it  to  rise.  When  well 
risen,  work  to  the  dough  one  egg  well  beaten,  two  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  After  mixing  (no  more  flour  should 
be  added),  put  the  batter  or  soft  dough  into  cups ;  let  them  set  to 
rise  ten  minutes.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven;  serve  hot.  Turn  them 
out  of  the  cups,  handling  them  very  delicately. 


512.  Snow  Flakes — Mrs.  i^.'s  Receipt. — One  quart  of  sifted 
flour,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  salt  to  taste,  six  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, one  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard.  Just  before  baking, 
•tir  in  one  heaping  dessert-spoonful  of  yeast  powder.  Bake  in 
small  patty-pans  in  a  quick  oven ;  grease  the  pans  slightly.  This 
is  a  delicate,  and,  when  well  made  and  baked,  a  beautiful  dish. 


513.  Soda  Biscuit. — Put  in  the  sifter  one  quart  of  flour  and 
une  even  teaspoonful  of  super-carb.  soda ;  sift  these  together ; 
rub  into  the  flour  thoroughly  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's 
egg;  salt  to  taste;  wet  the  flour  with  sour  milk  until  a  soft 
dough  is  formed ;  make  it  into  thin  biscuit,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
>ven.  Work  it  very  little.  Always  reserve  a  little  flour  before 
putting  in  the  soda  to  work  into  the  dough,  and  flour  the  board. 


514.  Teatt  Powder  Biscuit  — A  quart  of  flour,  a  piece  of  lard 
rubbed  into  it  as  large  as  a  hen's  egg,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  (a 
neat  way  of  adding  the  salt  is  first  to  dissolve  it  in  a  little  water), 
a  heaped -up  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powders.     Wet  up  the  flour  w>tk 


TKA8T    AND    BREAD.  22$ 

tweet  milk,  and  work  just  enough  to  mix;  r:ll  thin,  p:lck  witfc 
a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If  it  is  not  convenient  to  use 
the  yeait  powders,  take  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  mir 
well  v  ilh  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  add  to  the  flour. 


5 1 5.  Hard  Biscuit. — Measure  a  quart  of  flour,  ar  d  one  tumbler 
ful  over ;  reserve  this.  In  the  quart  of  flour  rub  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  I  utter  (or  rather  less  of  lard),  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
gait ;  wet  to  a  soft  dough  with  warm  sweet  milk ;  knead  it  well, 
working  in  slowly  the  reserved  flour ;  sprinkle  the  biscuit-board 
with  floi'r  ;  beat  the  dough,  turning  it,  pulling  it  to  pieces  (sprink- 
ling on  flour  as  may  be  needed),  until  the  dough  is  well  blistered. 
Roll  it  out ;  cut  with  a  knife  or  biscuit-cutter,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  warm   wen. 


516.  Arrowroot  Griddle  Cakes. — Mix  two  tablespoonfula  of 
arrowroot  in  a  little  milk ;  add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  half  a 
pint  of  mush,  or  hominy  ;  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  when 
the  griddle  is  ready,  mix  them  with  the  other  ingredients,  add  a 
little  salt,  and  bake  immediately. 


517.  Crackers. — One  pint  of  flour,  the  yolk  of  one  egg; 
beat  to  this  a  dessert-spoon  even  full  of  fine  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
ful  of  butter,  salt  to  taste ;  the  same  of  lard,  mixed  together ;  wet 
with  sweet  milk  to  a  stiff  dough ;  beat  well ;  cut  with  a  wineglass; 
hake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.    These  are  excellent  if  well  made 


518.  Owendan  Corn-Bread. — Take  two  teacups  of  hominy, 
and  while  hot  mix  in  a  large  spoonful  of  butter ;  oeat  four  egga 
very  light,  stir  them  into  the  hominy '  add  about  a  pint  of  milk, 
half  a  pint  of  corn-meal  gradually  stiired  in.  The  batter  should 
be  of  tho  consistency  of  rich  boiled   ?ustard ;  if  thicker  add  m 


230  MBS.  hill's  new  pook  book. 

little  more  iuilk.  Bake  with  a  good  deal  of  heat  at  the  bottom, 
and  not  too  much  at  the  top.  The  pan  in  which  it  is  baked 
-night  to  be  a  deep  one. 


520.  Tea  Bread. — Three  ;umblers  of  sifted  fl(  ur,  a  teaspocLfn 
Mid  a  half  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  tablespoon. 
fill  of  butter  rubbed  to  the  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Uub 
the  cream  of  tartar  into  the  butter;  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  half 
tumbler  of  sweet  milk;  add  this  and  a  full  tumbler  of  milk  tc 
the  flour.  Make  a  soft  dough ;  roll  an  inch  thick  ,  press  a  saucer 
upon  it,  passing  a  knife  around  the  saucer  each  time  it  is  pressed, 
to  cut  the  cakes  the  shape  of  the  saucer ;  prick  them,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven. 


521.  Mrs.  W.'s  Thomas- Bread  Receipt. — A  tumbler  of  sweet 
milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  to  taste,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  or  lard,  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  sugar,  a 
dessert-spoon  heaped  full  of  yeast  powder,  flour  to  make  a  stiif 
batter ;  bake  as  soon  as  the  powder  is  in. 


522.  Clabber  Bread  (excellent). — Beat  four  eggs  separately,  two 
teacups  of  clabber,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  (very  slightly 
heaped,  and  placed  in  a  pan  upon  the  stove  long  enough  to  soften )t 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  the  same  of  salt ;  mix  with  flour  to  a  stiff 
battel ;  grease  the  pan  in  which  the  bread  is  to  be  baked  ;  poui 
in  the  batter ;  let  it  stand  an  hour,  and  bake. 


52S.  Mice  Flour  Loaf  Bread. — To  one  q  iart  of  rice  flour,  ad 
an  even  teaspoon  and  a  half  of  dry  soda  if  the  teaspoon  is  small 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  separately;  two  tumblers  of  sweet  milk,  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter;  put  upon  the  fire  in  the  pan  in  which  the 
bread  is  to  be  baked,  long  enough  to  soften  the  butter.     Ilavt 
the  pan  made  warm,  and  set  in  the  oven  or  stove,  where  it  is  to 


YKAST    AND    BREAD.  23] 

be  baked.  When  tl.e  batter  is  ready,  stir  in  half  a  tcaspoou 
fill  of  tartaric  acid;  pour  into  the  warm  pan,  and  bake  imrae 
diately. 

Another  way  :  To  half  a  t'.'^Mer  of  nice  cornmeai  mush,  add 
a  dessertspoon  even  full  of  butter,  twro  eggs  beaten  separately 
one  pint  of  rice  flour,  teaspoon  of  soda  sifted  in  with  the  flour 
§alt  to  taste,  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter;  just  before  baking, 
stir  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in  warm 
water. 


524.  Corn  Meal  Batter  Bread. — One  pint  of  clabber  or  butter* 
milk,  the  same  quantity  of  sifted  corn  meal,  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
salt  to  taste,  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  added  last.  To  beat  separately 
is  best. 


525.  Rice  Bread. — Throe  teacups  of  rice  flour,  one  of  wheat  flour, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  rubbed  into  the  flour, 
*wo  well-beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  and  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  the  batter  the  con 
aistency  of  pound-cake. 


520.  Rice  Pan  Bread. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  hominy,  one 
of  butter;  when  cold,  add  one  pint  of  rice  flour,  and  make  a  bat- 
ler  with  sweet  milk. 


527.  Hominy  Bread. — Two  eggs  beaten  light,  two  cups  of  cold 
boiled  hominy,  one  of  corn  meal,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard 
and  sweet  mil*  for  a  thin  batter. 


528.  Efjg  Bread. — One  pint  of  sifted  meal,  nearly  a  pint  of 
buttermilk,  one  egg,  a  lump  of  lard  the  size  of  a  small  walnut^ 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Just  before  baking,  add  a  (easpM>nru3 
&f  soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water.  If  th« 
milk  is  sweet,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 


232  MBS.   HILL* 8  NEW  COOK  BOOK. 

529.  Batter  Bread. — Beat  three  eggs  separately ,  add  to  tht 
yolks  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  corn-meal,  and  three  toac  api 
of  buttermilk;  salt  to  taste,  stir  well;  then  add  the  whites ; 
i)cat  them  in,  and  add  lastly  four  tablespoon fuls  of  corn-meal, 
1  making  in  all  eight ;  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  bake  quick  in  shallow 
vpan3 


530.  Bice  Corn-Bread. — One  pint  of  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of 
corn-meal,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  lard,  one  pint  of  buttermilk  (or 
sour  milk),  two  eggs,  beaten  well;  mash  the  rice  smooth  ;  add 
the  lard  to  it ;  stir  in  the  last  a  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  bake  in 
shallow  pans. 


531.  German  Muffins. — One  pint  of  flour,  three  eggs  beate.ii 
separately,  one  tablespoonful  of  meal,  one  pint  of  milk,  oi«e 
tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.     Whites  last. 


532.  Cheese  Biscuit. — One  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  biH 
ter,  half  a  pound  of  grated  cheese;  make  up  quick,  and  with  veiy 
little  handling,  as  puff  paste.  Roll  thin;  cut  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.     Salt  to  taste. 


533.  Buckwheat  Cakes. — Sift  together  one  quart  of  buckwheat 
flour  and  a  teacup  of  corn  meal.  In  cool  weather  make  up  a 
moderately  thin  batter  with  lukewarm  sweet  milk;  salt  to  Uste. 
In  warm  weather  it  is  best  to  use  water,  the  milk  would  sour; 
add  half  a  tumbler  of  good  lively  hop  yeast  (hop  yeast  is  best 
or  buckwheat);  make  it  up  in  a  jar  (covering  closely)  at  9 
y  clock  at  night.  The  next  morning  beat  in  three  eggs ;  let  it  set 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  just  before  frying,  stir  m  a  teaspoon? 
ful  of  doda,  first  sprinkling  it  over  the  batter.  Dip  out  with 
a  lacle,  putting  the  same  quantity  in  each  cake,  and  not  encugb 
to  ir.ak e  them  very  large;  when  very  large,  they  become  cold 
before  they  can  be  eaten;  nothing  is  poorer  than  cold  buck n heat 


YEAST    AND    DREAD.  233 

cakes.  Hot  sepaiate  plates  should  re  placed  for  serving  .hem 
in,  and  nice  syrup  and  drawn  butter  put  upon  the  table,  to  be 
eaten  with  them  (if  liked);  only  one  or  two  for  each  p«rsnt 
should  be  sent  in  at  once.  And  in  taking  them  from  the  giiddle, 
always  put  them  upon  a  hot  plate. 

534.  Quick  Buckwheat. — A  quart  measure  three  parts  full  o/ 
buckwheat,  fill  the  measure  with  sifted  corn-meal;  make  a  mod 
erately  thin  batter  with  buttermilk,  soda  to  sweeten  it,  salt,  one 
tablespoonful  of  syrup.  Fry  the  cakes  on  a  hot  griddle,  just  ag 
goon  as  the  soda  is  added.  These  may  be  made  of  cold  water 
and  yeast  powder ;  with  or  without 


535.  Superior  Wheat  Flour  Batter  Cakes. — One  quart  measure 
of  flour,  three  parts  full ;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  corn  meal,  tw« 
or  three  eggs,  beaten  separately ;  make  a  moderately  stiff  battet 
with  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  sifted  with  the  flour  and 
meal,  one  teaspoon ful  of  tartaric  acid  dissolved  in  water,  or  a  heaped 
dessert-spoon  of  yeast  powder. 


536.  Rice  Griddle  Cakes. — One  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  boiled 
rice ;  put  to  soak  an  hour  in  warm  water  enough  to  cover  it. 
Mash  the  rice  well,  and  make  a  batter,  just  before  using,  with 
one  quart  of  sour  milk,  one  light  quart  of  flour,  salt  to  taste,  and 
two  eggs  well  beaten.  The  batter  should  be  moderately  thick.  Stir 
in  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  just  before  frying. 


536£.  Economy  Cakes. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  stale  bread 
crumbs  soaked  for  some  time  in  water,  mash  smooth,  add  a  tcI* 
beaten  eggt  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  teaspoonful  of 
■alt,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  milk  ;  just  before  frying  stir  ia 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  no  more.  Have  tie  griddle  hot  and 
greased  ;  serve  as  fast  as  they  are  cooked  This  is  an  -excellent 
way  to  save  sour  or  stale  bread,  rusk,  or  crackers. 


537.  Another    Way  to  make   Griddle  Cckes.— Dissol  re  a  to* 


231  MR8.    niLl/8    NEW   COOK    BOOK. 

■I>oniiful  of  soda  in  a  teacup  of  buttermilk.  Beatv*ell  f  >ur  egps 
■tir  to  them  the  teacup  of  soda  and  buttermilk,  and  one  table 
•poonful  of  butter  ;  soften  it  by  setting  it  on  the  stove;  stir  in  l 
quart  of  flour  alternately  with  two  more  cups  of  buttermilk 
Bake,  turning  once  ;  pile  them  on  the  griddle,  putting  a  thir  sliop 
<£  buttei  between  each  take. 


538  Batter  Cake. — One  egg,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  butter, 
one  pint  of  flour,  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  sour  milk,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water;  add  just  be» 
fore  serving ;  salt  to  taste. 


*©  > 


530.  Clabber  Cakes. — One  large  teacup  of  clabber,  nine  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  salt  to  taste;  let  this  set  an  hour  before 
using.  Dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  wineglass  of  sweel 
milk  ;  add  this  last,  and  fry  as  batter  cakes  immediately. 


540.   Mush  Batter- Cakes.— Oi\q   tumbler  of  mush,  one   half 
tumbler  of  flour,  two  eggs,  salt,  sweet  milk. 


541.  Hominy  Cakes. — One  pint  of  cold  hominy,  half  a  pint  of 
flour,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard  or  butter,  sweet 
milk  to  make  a  batter  rather  thin,  a  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder. 


542.  Batter  Cakes  Without  Eggs. — To  one  pint  of  sifted  flour 
add  as  much  buttermilk  as  will  make  a  rather  stiff  batter  ;  salt  to 
taste.  Divide  the  batter  in  two  separate  pans ;  measure  a  tea« 
•poonful  of  soda ;  divide  this,  putting  into  one  pan  half  the  soda ; 
use  this  ;  add  the  soda  to  the  other  pan,  and  fry  from  that  urtil  the 
batter  is  used.  Send  to  the  table  hot ;  they  are  not  good  if  left 
to  stand. 


543.  Risen  Batter  Cakes. — Four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  pint  of 


TIA8T    AND    BREAD.  235 

•wcot  milk,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  flour,  a  tenspnonf J  of  salt,  a 
winegk*sd  of  good  yeast;  make  the  batter  at  i)  o'clock  at  night, 
In  the  mo/^ing.  stir  in  a  imall  teaspoonful  of  soda,  just    before 

frJir'g-  

544.  Ry*  3ztter  Cakts. — Wan  a  two  tumblers  of  sweet  milk, 
with  a  toasjuHAJul  of  salt;  beat  two  eggs  well;  make  a  thil 
batter  with  rye  flour,  the  eggs  and  milk  well  stirred  together; 
idd  a  teaspoonfii  Jvla.  Fry  in  rather  small  cakes.  Rye  and 
oorn  meal  batten  jukes  should  be  made  thin;  flour  cakei 
moderately  still*. 


545.  Corn  Meal  Batter  Cakes. — One  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
(ard  stirred  into  a  tjfcblespoonful  of  hot  mush,  salt  to  taste,  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  corn  meal  to  make  a  thin  batter,  an  even  tea- 
spoonful of  yeast  powder  (or  the  yeast  powder  may  be  omitted, 
asing  another  egg)  ;  beat  them  well.  These  batter  cakes  may  be 
made  of  sour  milk  and  soda,  but  are  not  generally  considered  so 
good.     Rice  or  hominy  may  be  used  instead  of  mush. 


546.  Rice  Flour  Batter  Cakes. — Beat  three  eggs  separately; 
make  a  batter  rather  stilT,  by  stirring  to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
alternately  a  large  teacup  of  rice  flour  and  milk.  To  a  tumbler 
of  hot  rice,  or  small  hominy  well  boiled,  add  a  heaped  dessert- 
spoonful of  butter  or  lard ;  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beater* 
to  a  stiff  froth ;  mix  well  with  the  yolks.     Fry  on  the  griddle. 


547.  Rye  Bread. — One  pint  of  rye  flour,  one  of  good  of.rn 
meal,  salt  to  taste,  a  piece  of  lard  or  butter  as  large  as  a  tfilnut^ 
a  teacup  of  good  yeast,  milk  or  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough 
*i>ik  it  well ;  set  it  to  rise;  when  well  risen,  form  into  loave* 
let  it  rise  again.     Bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 


548.  Rye  Drop  Cakes. — Two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  pint  of  rye  flour, 
■alt  to  taste,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  sweet  milk  to  make  a  rathe? 


230  MR8.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

thin  batter,  a  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder  stirred  in  last.  Bakt 
in  smal.1  shallow  tin  pans  in  a  quick  oven.  Or  mix  one  pint  of 
rye  flour,  one  of  corn  meal,  one  tablespoonful  of  syrup  ;  mix  wi'Ji 
milk  a  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder;  let  it  remain  an  houi  Lofuit 
baking. 

543.  Buttermilk  Cakes. — One  quart  of  flour  and  an  evcL  teA 
spoonful  of  soda  sifted  together,  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  salt;  rub 
into  the  flour  well  a  piece  of  lard  or  butter  the  size  of  a  large 
hen's  egg ;  wet  to  a  rather  soft  dough  with  buttermilk ;  work 
until  the  dough  is  smooth ;  roll  out  an  inch  thick ;  cut,  by  press- 
ing a  saucer  on  the  dough ;  cut  around  with  a  sharp  knife.  Who* 
all  are  cut,  prick  them  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


550.  Short  Hoe  Cakes. — One  quart  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  dissolved  in  a  wineglass  of  water;  rub  in  the  flour  till 
thoroughly  mixed;  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard  ;  pour 
in  the  salt ;  wet  up  with  cold  water ;  only  work  the  dough  enough 
to  be  smooth ;  roll  an  inch  thick  or  less,  and  bake. 

Another  way  :  To  one  pound  of  flour  rub  in  well  three-quar 
ters  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  well ;  pour  to  the  eggs  half  a  tumbler  of  sweet 
milk  ;  stir  them  well  together;  wet  up  the  flour  with  it  to  a  rather 
soft  dough ;  use  more  milk,  if  necessary.  Handle  the  dough 
lightly,  and  very  little.  Roll  into  round  cakes;  prick  them  with 
i  fork ;  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 


551.  Johnny  Cake. — One  pint  of  boiled  rice  or  hominy,  one 
egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  to  taste,  flour  enough  t*j 
mal  e  a  soft  dough;  roll  half  an  inch  thick;  bake  quick,  without 
blistering ;  serve  hot.  Tear  the  cakes  open,  and  butter.  Cut  the 
cakes  four  inches  long  and  three  wide. 


552.   Corn  Meal  Johnny  Cakes. — Make  three  tumblers  of  sifted 
corn  meal  into  a  soft  dough  with  one  egg  well  beaten,  and  mixed 


YEAST    AND    BREAD.  231 

with  a  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  salt  to  taste.  Spread  the  di  lgb  ovei 
a  hot  griddle.  When  one  side  is  a  light  brown,  turn  it;  servt 
hot,  sending  to  the  table  only  one  at  a  time;  let  others  succeed 
rapidly  until  all  are  served. 

553.  Plain  Corn  Bread. — Plata  corn  bread  should  be  mad* 
17th  cold  water ;  the  dough  stiff,  and  weli  worked  with  the  hand ; 
made  into  pones ;  baked  in  a  hot  oven,  and  not  allowed  to  remain 
in  the  oven  until  the  crust  becomes  too  hard  to  be  eaten. 


554.  Victoria  Wafers. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  flour  enough  to  make  a 
very  thin  batter.     The  wafer-irons  should  be  very  shallow. 

555.  Corn  Meal  Wafers. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  corn 
meal,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  of  melted  lard,  salt  to  taste; 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Fry  a  light  brown  color  in 
shallow  irons.  These  must  be  eaten  as  soon  as  fried ;  they 
become  tough  very  soon.  The  irons  should  always  be  hot  and 
well  greased  before  the  batter  is  put  in. 

556.  Wafers. — To  a  quart  of  sifted  flour,  rub  in  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter.  Dissolve  a  large  teaspoonful  of 
salt  in  a  tumbler  of  cold  water ;  wet  the  dough  with  this.  Uso 
aiore  water  if  necessary  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  dough; 
work  it  very  little ;  divide  into  pieces,  which,  when  rolled  very 
thin,  will  just  cover  the  inside  of  the  wafer-irons.  Heat  th<*  irons 
and  grease  them;  liy  in  the  dough;  close  the  irons  tightly. 
Should  the  dough  be  too  large  for  the  irons,  trim  it  ofl*  after  they 
are  closed.  Lay  on  hot  embers;  turn  in  two  or  three  minutes 
They  should  be  of  a  light  brown.  If  properly  made  and  cooked 
are  very  crisp  and  nice. 


556J.  Souffle  Wafers. — Rub  into  a  quart  of  flour  four  ounce* 
of  butter ;  mix  with  sweet  milk  ;  roll  thin  ;  bake  quick.  Theae 
may  be  fried,  and  are  then  called  pull?. 


238  mre. 

557.  Milk  Toa.it. — Cut  four  slices  from  a  stale  loaf;  plac* 
them  in  a  toaster,  or  prop  them  before  the  fire,  turning  c  v*k 
piece  until  a  light  brown  color.  Have  a  pan  ready  with  a  turn 
blerful  of  hot  sweet  milk.  Dip  each  si:**"*  in  quickly ;  la}  out 
upon  the  bottom  of  a  hot  dish ;  lay  over  thin  slices  (  f  fresk 
butter,  then  another  piece  of  toast,  until  all  are  arrange!  in  this 
^ay.  Send,  under  a  cover,  to  table.  Toast  should  be  eaten  w  hen 
fresh  made. 

Another  way :  Toast  the  slices ;  dip  them  in  hot  water  or  milk, 
and  pour  over  a  small  teacup  of  melted  butter,  for  three  long 
slices.  The  butter  should  only  be  set  in  boiling  water,  and  re- 
main until  melted.  It  should  never  be  set  immediately  upon  the 
fire. 

Another  way:  Cut  from  a  round  or  square  loaf  of  stale  bread, 
four  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Toast  them  (using  toasting, 
forks)  a  yellowish  brown  color ;  put  them  in  a  hot  dish  that  will 
hold  them  without  dividing.  Put  in  a  stew-pan  a  pint  of  rich, 
sweet  milk,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  made  into  a  paste,  with  a  little  cola 
milk  added  as  the  milk  in  the  stew-pan  boils  up;  simmer  two 
or  three  minutes;  pour  over  the  toast,  and  serve  immediately. 


558.  Queen's  Toast. — Toast  the  bread  by  the  foregoing  receipts 
Beat  together  two  eggs;  pour  to  them  gradually,  and  mixing  well 
a  pint  of  milk.  Have  ready  half  a  pound  of  sweet  lard  or  butter 
boiling;  soak  the  bread  until  it  looks  entirely  moistened  with  the 
milk  and  egg,  but  not  until  it  is  so  saturated  as  to  fall  to  pieces. 
Drop  the  toast  into  the  boiling  lard ;  turn  the  pieces  ;  very  \ttlt 
frying  is  necessary;  serve  upon  a  soft  napkin,  with  cieam  ~auoa 
or  good  syrup.  This  may  be  made  of  very  stale  bread  without 
toasting,  merely  frying  it. 


559.  Toast  and  Cheese. — Butter  the  bread  ;  grate  chees*»,  and 
spread  thickly  upon  it ;  toast  before  the  fire ;  serve  hot. 

Another  way :  Put  two  ounces  of  cheese  (sliced  thin,  if  soft 


YEAST    «N1>    CKEAD.  239 

gTated,  ll  hard),  a  piece  of  butter  the  si/e  of  a  hen's  ogg,  into  a 
#tew-pan  or  chafing-dish;  whip  together  an  egg  and  *  win-glass 
of  Madeira.  When  the  cheese  and  butter  melt,  stii  in  the  egg 
And  wine  gradually,  mixing  it  well.     Season  with   popper  and 

utmeg,   if  liked.      Spread    immediately    upon    hot   toast,   and 

erve. 

Another  way:  Toast  the  bread  on  both  sides,  and  butter  it; 
toast  a  slice  of  cheese  on  one  side;  lay  that  next  the  bread  ;  toast 
Iho  other  side  with  a  salamander  or  hot  oven-lid ;  spread  over 
French  mustard  ;  serve  hot.  These  preparations  must  be  oaten 
as  soon  as  ready ;  if  kept,  the  toast  becomes  hard  ;  this  may  be 
remedied  by  pouring  over  a  little  hot  cream  and  butter  sauce. 
Dry  toast  should  not  be  prepared  until  the  moment  it  is  wanted 


560.  To  make  Stale  Bread  Taste  as  if  Fresh. — Steam  the  bread 
not  permitting  the  water  to  reach  it.  When  thoroughly  hot,  wrap 
it  in  a  thin  cloth,  and  stand  it  on  the  end.  A  stale  loaf  tied  in  a 
cloth  and  boiled  an  hour,  makes  a  nice  pudding.  Use  a  rich  but 
ter  sauce. 


561.  Pearl  Grits. — Oatmeal  and  cracked  wheat  should  bo 
soaked  some  time  before  being  cooked.  To  two  tablespoonfuls, 
heaped,  of  grits  a  tumblerful  of  water,  added  after  pouring  oflf 
the  water  it  was  soaked  in.  This,  when  sufficiently  boiled,  will 
have  doubled  its  bulk  and  be  as  much  as  a  very  hearty  person 
could  eat.     Salt  to  taste. 


561  J.  To  Boil  Rice. — Wash  through  several  waters,  to  wash 
jut  the  glue,  put  the  rice  in  boiling  water.  Boil  a  quarter  of  an 
Hour.  Pour  off  in  a  cullender;  pour  over  cold  water,  knock 
♦he  cullender  to  .et  this  run  out.  Pour  over  hot  water;  press  a 
/rain  between  the  fingers  to  test  its  being  done  Set  in  a  warm 
|Jace  on  the  stove.     Excellent. 

562.    Hominy  Cakes. — Mash  a  tumbler  of  cold  hominy  witli  a 
Vofcapoonfc!  of  butter ;  work  in  o  it  the  yolk  of  one  egg  ;  form  the 
;  roll  them  In  fkrar;  fry  in  plenty  of  hot  laid.     Salt  U  tasve, 


240  MRS.    HILLS    NEW    TOOK    BOOK. 

503.  Ley  Hominy. — To  a  gallon  of  shelled  c<.  rn,  add  a  quar* 
of  strong  ley.  Boil  together  until  the  husks  begin  to  come  off 
the  corn;  rub  the  grains  of  corn  between  the  hanis,  *.c  entirely 
remove  the  huik ;  wash  it  well,  and  boil  in  plenty  of  tfatcr  ui  "A 
the  grains  are  soft.  It  requires  long  boiling.  As  water  m&y  :* 
rA>eded,  replenish  with  hot  water.  Boil  in  it  sufficient  salt  to 
season.  When  nearly  done,  stir  it  from  the  bottom  to  prevent 
its  burning.  Before  using  it,  mash  it  slightly  with  a  wooden  mal- 
let, and  fi  y  in  a  small  quantity  of  lard  or  butter. 


56 3£.  Cracked  Wheat. — One  tablespoonful  is  sufficient  for 
one  person  ;  use  as  much  as  may  be  needed.  Soak  it  in  water 
several  hours.  In  cold  weather  it  may  be  put  to  soak  over  night. 
Salt  to  taste.  Boil  until  soft,  stir  to  prevent  burning.  Eat 
with  cream. 

Oatmeal  mush  is  made  in  the  same  way ;  the  meal  must  be 
well  soaked ;  may  be  eaten  with  cream,  or  add  butter  and  eggs. 
The  wheat  and  oatmeal  make  fine  butter  cakes,  simple,  but  very 
nutritious. 


563f .  Oatmeal  Pudding. — One  pint  of  oatmeal,  one  quart  of 
Doiling  milk  poured  over  it ;  let  it  stand  all  night  in  cool  weather. 
Add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  a  little  salt.  Butter  a 
basin  that  will  just  hold  it ;  tie  over  a  thick  cloth  and  boil  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Eat  with  hard  sauce.  What  remains  whon 
cold  may  be  sliced,  toasted,  and  eaten  with  butter  or  sauce 


564.  Macaroni. — Wash  half  a  pound  of  macaroni ;  boil  it  -n 
plenty  of  water  until  tender ;  lay  in  a  shallow  earthen  dish  a 
layer  of  the  macaroni  (the  pieces  should  be  broken  the  same 
iize),  one  of  grated  cheese,  and  salt  to  taste.  Lay  over  slices 
of  butter;  cover  with  sweet  milk  or  cream.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven,  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  hot.  Another  way  is,  tc 
arrange  alternate  layers  of  boiled  macaroni  and  grated  chee*a 
Pour  over  a  custard  made  of  three  well  beaten  eggs,  two  table 


YEAST    AND    BREAD  24 1 

•poonfuls  of  stale  grated  bread,  one  tablespocrful  of  bitter,  and 
tialf  a  teacup  of  cream  or  sweet  milk.  Bake  half  an  hour,  or 
until  the  eustarc  is  set.  If  boiled  too  long,  it  will  lose  its  shape; 
if  bakevi  too  much,  it  will  be  dry  and  tough.  It  may  be  boiled 
'orutar  put  in  a  shallow  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  chocse 
jo  /ere  1  with  milk/  bread  crumbs  over  this,  and  over  these  thin 
dices  of  butter.  Bake  until  the  butter  melts  and  the  bread 
crumbs  are  slightly  brown. 


505.  Dr.  Kitchiner*8  Macaroni  Pudding. — Simmer  half  a 
pound  of  macaroni  in  plenty  of  water  (salted  to  taste)  until  tendei, 
but  not  enough  to  lose  its  form  or  make  it  too  soft ;  strain  the  water 
from  it ;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  the  whites  of  two.  Take 
a  half  pint  of  good  rich  cream,  a  breast  of  cold  fowl,  three  slices 
of  cold  ham;  mince  the  meat  *ine;  grate  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
Parmesan  or  Cheshire  cheese  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Mix 
these  with  the  macaroni.  Put  all  into  a  buttered  pudding-mould  , 
set  this  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  steam  an  hour.  A 
double  kettle  may  be  used.  Serve  hot  with  rich  gravy.  To 
make  the  gravy:  Two  yolks  of  eggs  ;  half  teaspoonful  of  salt: 
one  lemon  cut  up,  seeds  removed  ;  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Sea- 
son with  white  pepper.  Put  it  on  the  fire  until  the  butter  melts, 
stirring  constantly,  or  the  egg  will  curdle ;  stir  to  this  a  tumbler 
of  sweet  cream,  boiling  hot.  Serve  immediately.  If  sweet  milk 
is  used  instead  of  cream,  melt  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  it.  This 
makes  a  nice  fish  sauce  when  well  seasoned. 


566.  To  Make  Vermicelli. — Thicken  three  or  four  eggs  with 
flour  to  a  stiff  dough;  roll  it  in  thin  sheets,  the  thinner  the  better 
Spread  them  to  dry,  turning  them.  When  dry,  which  may  be 
done  before  the  fire  or  in  the  sun  (it  will  require  at  least  an  hour 
—it  is  important  they  should  be  very  dry),  roll  each  piece  like  a 
scroll,  acd  shave  it  in  thin  slices  ;  shake  these  apart.  When  the 
•©up  is  nearly  done,  boil  them  in  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour.     What 


remains,  if  all  is  not  needed,  may  be  kept  two  or  three  days  in  a 
dry  place. 

507.  Cheese  Stewed. — If  the  cheese  is  hard,  grate  it;  if  so  A,  out 
R  in  thin  slices.  To  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  add  a  tumbler  of  swe^l 
milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  tumbler  of  fine  br^ad 
crumbs.  Rub  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard  flour  or  French  mustard 
into  the  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  (white  pepper  is  best)  • 
put  these  ingredients  into  a  stew-pan  lined  with  porcelain  or  tip ; 
stew  until  the  cheese  melts.  Beat  an  egg  well,  stirring  it  rapidh 
and  thoroughly  into  the  cheese.  Let  it  remain  on  the  fire  one 
minute ;  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve  immediately.  Dry 
grated  cheese  is  a  pretty  supper  dish ;  shape  it  in  wineglasses  • 
turn  upon  a  flat  dish. 


568.  Welsh  Rarebit  (called  Babbit)  to  be  Prepared  on  the  T<u 
ble. — Cut  or  grate  a  tumblerful  of  good  cheese.  Put  it  in  a 
chafing-dish ;  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  hen's  egg  • 
light  the  lamp  to  the  chafing-dish ;  put  it  in  the  proper  place. 
Stir  the  cheese  and  butter  together  until  they  have  melted  ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Now  stir  to  the  cheese  a  wineglass  of  good 
Madeira  wine,  and  one  well  beaten  egg ;  mix  these  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Remove  the  lamp,  and  serve.  Thin  dry  toast  should  be 
served  with  the  cheese. 


560.  Eggs. — To  boil,  should  be  fresh.  If  put  in  tepid  water, 
four  minuten  will  set  the  whites,  five  minutes  will  set  the  yolk, 
tec  minutes  will  boil  them  hard.  When  put  in  boiling  water, 
the  white  hardens  too  fast  for  the  yolk ;  tepid  or  warm  water  ii 
Jbest.  I  have  sometimes  boiled  them  in  this  way  :  Place  the  <*gg§ 
in  cold  water;  when  the  water  first  begins  to  bubble,  the  whites 
will  be  well  set.  Fresh-laid  eggs  require  longer  boiling  thafi 
those  ^  little  old.  Large  eggs  require  more  time  than  those  o/ 
less  size. 


YKAST    AND    B1BAD.  2l3 

570.  To  Scramble  Eggs. — Put  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk  into  a 
•tew-pan;  rub  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  into  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg ;  add  this  to  the  milk ;  salt  to  taste.  Beat 
half  a  dozen  eggs  light;  stir  to  the  milk.  As  soon  as  the 
whites  are  well  set,  pour  over  buttered  toast.  Serve  hot.  Th* 
fc«au  may  be  omitted.  This  is  a  much  more  delicate  way  of  cook 
fcg  than   to  scramble  them  in  lard  or  butter  without  the  milk. 


571.  To  Poach  Eg$s. — Have  a  pan  or  skillet  half  full  of  boil- 
ing water;  break  as  many  fresh  eggs  into  it  as  will  lie  side  by 
side,  they  should  not  touch ;  let  them  remain  undisturbed  until 
the  whites  are  set  well.  Take  them  up  when  done;  trim  the 
ragged  parts,  so  as  to  make  the  eggs  round.  Pour  ovei  each  egg 
a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  In  taking  them  up,  use  a  per- 
forated skimmer. 


572.  To  Fry  Eggs. — Put  a  piece  of  lard  or  butter  the  size  of  a 
large  walnut  in  a  frying-pan ;  put  this  on  the  fire.  When  the 
lard  is  hot,  break  the  eggs  one  by  one  carefully  into  the  lard ; 
sprinkle  over  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  eggs  are  done, 
take  them  up  immediately ;  serve  with  fried  ham.  When  the 
eggs  are  not  perfectly  fresh,  break  each  one  into  a  saucer  before 
cooking;  one  bad  egg  will  spoil  all  the  rest.     Do  not  turn  them. 


573.  To  Fricassee  Eggs. — Boil  them  ten  minutes,  or  entirely 
hard.  Take  them  up,  and  drop  them  into  cold  water  until  the} 
are  cool  enough  to  remove  the  shell.  Beat  up  one  raw  egg ,  roll 
the  hard  boiled  first  in  the  raw  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs ;  lei 
them  dry,  turning  them.  Fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  as  an  accom 
paniment  to  roast  or  baked  meat,  with  rich  gravy.  They  nay 
becutinhalf;  remove  the  yolk,  and  fill  each  end  with  a  ruth 
force-meat;  join  then  >r  not,  as  preferred;  roil  in  raw  beater 
then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry. 


i>71   Baked    Omelet. — Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  drop  into  li 


2  14  M118.    HILL'S  NEW  COOK   BOOK. 

oue  teaspoonful  of  butter ;  mix  to  a  paste  with  cold  milk  a  ta 
blespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  to  the  boiling  milk.  Beat  eight 
eggs  together  and  pour  the  milk  to  them,  stirring  briskly ;  salt 
ard  pepper  to  taste.  Butter  a  fire-proof  dish  ;  pour  in  the  mix 
tare,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  a  light-brown  color ;  waioh 
carefully — too  much  baking  will  spoil  it.     Excellent. 


574J.  Baked  Eggs. — Put  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  soup-plate  jr 
■hallow  fire-proof  dish — break  in  the  eggs,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  set  in  the  stove  or  before  a  hot  fire.  As  the  eggs  begin 
to  grow  hot,  stir  them.  They  are  very  delicate  cooked  in  thia 
way. 


575.  Pickled  Eggs. — Have  ready  a  quart  of  good  apple  vine- 
gar, by  scalding  in  it  one  dozen  cloves,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  dozen 
grains  of  allspice,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  flour  of  mustard.  Boil  a  dozen  eggs  hard  ;  shell  them,  and  lay 
in  a  glass  jar ;  pour  over  the  hot  vinegar ;  turn  them  occasionally  j 
keep  the  jar  well  covered.  Serve  with  pressed  or  collared  meat, 
head-cheese,  Hunter's  beef,  etc. 


576.  Omelette. — Break  six  eggs  separately ;  beat  the  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth ;  stir  the  yolks  well ;  season  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley 
minced  fine.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  one  tumbler  of  sweek 
in  ilk,  reserving  a  wineglassful  of  the  cold  milk  to  wet  into  a 
paste  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  When  the  milk  is  boiling  hot, 
stii  in  the  paste;  let  it  simmer  two  minutes;  take  it  from 
the  fire;  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  the 
butter  dissolves,  and  the  milk  is  blood  warm,  stir  it  to  the  yolks , 
half  a  tumbler  of  grated  ham,  cold  beef  tongue,  dried  giated  beef 
or  venison,  or  cheese  may  be  added  if  liked ;  very  little  minced 
onion  may  \e  used,  if  the  flavor  is  agreeable.  The  parsley, 
onion,  grated  ham,  etc.,  may  all  be  omitted  if  not  liked.  Add 
*.he  weJl-beaten  whites  last.     Have  a  small  frying-pan  ready.     1$ 


TOAST    AND    BREAD.  245 

thould  be  well  washed,  and  rubbed  very  dry ;  put  in  the  pan  a 
teaspoonful  of  fresh  butter ;  set  it  on  a  moderate  fire ;  while  the 
butter  is  heating,  beat  tc  tlie  eggs  half  a  teaspoonful  of  yeasi 
powders.  Fry  on  one  side  ;  hold  over  the  upper  side  a  hot  oven 
id  or  a  salamander ;  roll  the  omelette.  Serve  upon  a  hot  diih. 
They  should  not  be  piled.  Send  two  or  three  to  the  table  a- 
each  time  of  sending.  An  omelette  should  be  half  an  inch  or 
more  thick ;  should  not  be  greasy,  burnt,  or  kept  upon  the  fire 
until  too  hard ;  a  light  brown  is  the  proper  color.  When  it  in 
not  convenient  to  use  yeast  powders,  substitute  soda  and  cream 
of  tartar — an  even  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  It  requires  two  persons  to  fry  the  ome- 
lettes and  manage  the  salamander;  it  should  be  done  very 
expeditiously,  as  well  as  carefully.  It  is  not  necessary  to  roll 
them  ;  some  persons  prefer  it  should  not  be  done. 

577.  Rice  Omelette— Mrs.  B.'s  Receipt.— One  teacup  of  boiled 
rice,  one  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  level 
tablespoonrul  of  butter;  season  with  grated  ham,  a  little  minced 
onion,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  a  light  brown ;  much  cook 
ing  will  spoil  it. 

578.  To  Boil  Rice. — Pick  out  all  discolored  grains ;  wash  it 
well  in  two  waters;  soak  an  hour  before  boiling.  Twenty 
minutes  before  serving,  stir  it  slowly  into  boiling  water,  pre- 
viously salted.  One  pint  of  rice  will  require  four  tumblers  of 
water.  When  done,  pour  immediately  into  a  clean  colander,  and 
get  it  upon  the  coolest  part  of  the  stove.  Toss  ;t  up  lightly  wiih 
a  silver  or  wooden  fork.  Every  grain  shemd  stand  distint*. 
Boil  it  in  an  open  stew-pan,  lined  with  tin  or  per  "jelain.  This  it 
the  way  it  should  be  cooked  when  eaten  with  meats. 


578  £.  Cheesa  Omelet. — Half  pound  of  cheese  grated,  one  cap 
of  milk  (coffee  cup),  four  eggs  beaten  separately.  Mix  the  in- 
gredients, and  put  in  an  earthen  baking-dish  ;  bake  as  you  would 


446  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

579  Sandwich. — Slice  loaf  bread  or  cold  biscuit;  cutter  rri 
tide  very  thin ;  lay  upon  this  thin  slices  of  lean  ham,  or  any  kirui  of 
fresh  meat  or  poultry ;  roll  the  bread.     Serve  for  tea  or  leach. 

Another  way :  Slice  the  bread  very  thin ;  grate  £  quarter  of  s 
pomb  of  dry  cold  ham;  mix  with  a  tablespconful  of  pick  If 
raised  very  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  half  a  teaspronfu-1  o! 
per^er,  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  slightly  heaped;  ad« 
tf  it  the  ham  and  seasoning ;  mix  well,  and  put  a  layer  betweei 
\ae  slices  of  bread.  Anchovies  and  sardines  picked  from  th» 
bone&,  prepared  in  the  same  way,  are  good ;  also  spiced  oysters 
shrimps,  eUj. ;  they  should  be  minced  fine.  Grated  beef  tongue 
makes  excellent  sandwich.  Never  use  gristle  or  tough  pieces  of 
meat.  The  yolks  or  hard-boiled  eggs  (one  to  each  tablespoonful 
of  butter)  grated  £$&  "earned  with  the  butter,  is  mi  improve 
B&ettfi* 

si  v.   ■" 

$79$^  3n&*!m  Br*aik<™f&8Q  tfiicups  of  corn-meal,  one  oi  rye 
touar  %  a  teaspoonful  of  ealtj  t-  wine-glass  of  molasses,  haif  a  tea- 
ipoon;5!!!  of  aoda ;  add  hot  "water  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  when 
cold  add  a  teacup  of  home-  c&ade  yeast,  or  less  if  distillery.  Put 
it  to  rise  in  tno  dish  in^laich  it  is  to  be  baked,  smooth  over  the 
top  with  a  little  warm  water.     When  well  risen,  bake. 


579f .  Sampit  Bread. — One  tablespoonful  of  lard,  or  butter, 
f  re  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  corn-flour,  four  of  hominy,  two  eggs, 
I  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Rub  the  hominy  and  butter  well  to- 
gst.ier,  tLen  add  eggs,  flour,  and  salt ;  after  rubbing  the  wholf 
km*  put  tho  mixture  into  a  tin  pan,  and  bake  in  a  ^uick  aven 


PASTRY. 

"  Whither  rich  or  poor,  young  or  old,  married  or  singly' 
■  woman  is  always  liable  to  be  called  to  the  performance  of  everj 
kind  of  domestic  duty,  as  well  as  to  be  placed  at  the  head  of  a 
family  ;  and  nothing  short  of  a  practical  knowledge  of  the  details 
of  housekeeping  can  ever  make  those  duties  easy,  or  render  her 
competent  to  direct  others  in  the  performance  of  them. 

"J  low  indispensable  a  part  of  female  education  is  Domestic 
Economy !  How  absolutely  such  knowledge  is  needed  in  this 
land  of  freedom  and  independence,  where  riches  cannot  exempt  the 
mistress  <>f  a  family  from  the  difficulty  of  procuring  efficient  aid, 
and  where  perpetual  change  of  domestics  renders  perpetual  in- 
struction and  superintendence  necessary." 


580.  Puff  Paste,  No.  1.  —  Never  attempt  this  in  warm 
weather  unless  you  are  supplied  with  ice ;  then  keep  the  butter 
in  ice-water  until  hard  and  firm.  Mix  it  in  a  cool  place,  a^  far  as 
possible  from  the  fire,  and  use  ice-water  to  wet  the  flour.  Handle 
as  little  as  possible,  and,  after  the  dough  is  formed,  put  it  in  a 
pan ;  cover  it  with  a  towel,  and  set  the  pan  upon  ice.  In  wintei 
it  is  less  difficult  to  make.  Sift  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
flour;  reserve  the  quarter  of  a  pound.  Work  all  the  buttermilk 
out  of  a  pound  of  butter,  which  divide  into  tour  equal  parts 
fiub  one-fourth  of  it  into  the  pound  of  flour  until  't  has  a  gram? 
la'ed  look.  Wet  this  into  a  smooth  dough  a  little  stiffish,  w.ih 
tumblerful  of  cold  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  teaspoon, 
ful  of  salt.  Subdivide  the  remaining  three-fourths  of  the  butter 
*o  :is  to  form  six  parts.  Roll  out  the  dough  half  an  inch  thick; 
ttp<»n  which  place  one  of  the  sheets  of  butter,  rolled  to  just  the 
size  of  the  dough;  sprinkle  this  with  pait  of  the  reserved  flour; 


248  MRS.    IIILLB    NEW    COOK    BOOR 

fold  twice,  and  turn  so  that  the  points  will  be  to  and  from  you 
.Flour  the  rolling-pin,  and,  pressing  evenly  upon  it,  roll  from  yoi 
unt  il  half  an  inch  thick.  Great  care  is  necessa  ry  to  prevent  the  but 
tcr  from  bursting  through.  Repeat  this  process  as  many  times  as 
there  are  divisions  of  butter ;  and  a.?  ,he  necessary  handling  wiT 
impart  a  little  warmth  to  the  dough,  and  as  it  is  important  thai 
it  should  be  kept  as  cool  as  possible,  after  each  rolling  place  it  up  >E 
a  dish  or  pan,  and  set  it  upon  ice  or  in  a  cool  place  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  at  least ;  a  longer  time  if  the  delay  will  not  be  incor  re 
nient.  In  two  hours  use  it,  cutting  off  just  enough  for  each  ■  ie. 
A  plainer  crust  is  better  for  an  under  crust,  using  the  puff  pj.  *te 
only  for  covering,  or  to  make  open  tartlets  or  puffs.  Handle  as 
little  as  possible;  use,  in  rolling,  only  flour  enough  to  prev<  nt 
surfaces  of  the  dough  from  adhering  to  the  pastry-board  or  r,U 
ing-pin.  For  a  pastry-board,  marble  is  decidedly  best ;  but  v  jll 
seasoned  poplar  will  answer.  Judgment  must  be  used  in  wet  \ng 
up  the  dough,  as  some  flour  requires  more  water,  some  less 


581 .  A  very  Light,  Crisp  Paste,  No.  2. — To  a  pound  of  sif  ed 
flour  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter;  reserve  a  I  cm 
blerful  of  flour  to  use  in  rolling.  In  wetting  it  up,  use  the  vhite 
of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  enough  water  to  male  it 
intc  a  stiffish  dough.  Then  manage  in  all  respects  as  directed  in 
the  foregoing  receipt.  Pastry  should  be  made  soon  in  the 
morning.  Have  everything  in  readiness  before  beginning,  as  the 
work  cannot  be  done  too  expeditiously. 


582.  A  Good,  Plain  Crust,  No.  3. — A  quart  f  si  fled  flour,  t 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard,  the  same  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  Ct 
salt;  reserve  a  little  of  the  flour  to  use  in  rolling;  work  the  b»itte? 
into  the  remainder.  Dissolve  a  piece  of  sal-volatile  tlw  si?o  r,\  % 
large  nutmeg  in  half  a  tumbler  of  water;  add  this  to  the  lour. 
using  as  much  more  cold  water  as  is  necessary  to  wet  the  dough 
to  a  proper  consistence ;  roll  the  dough ;  spread  half  the  lard  upon 
it,  to  within  half  an  ir.ch  of  the  edge,  turning  up  the  edge  to  pre 


pastry.  24* 

▼«nt  Ihe  laH  from  oozing  out.  Sprinkle  with  flour ;  fold  twice,  and 
roil.  Repeat  th>s  process  with  the  remaining  lard,  and  set  in  a 
eool  plpce  for  hn-lf  an  houi  or  more  before  using.  This  answer? 
^ ell  t'ni  hi)  under  crust  where  the  real  puT  ^aste  is  used  for  the 

pp.T. 


5S3  A  Good  Crust  for  Meat  Pies,  No.  4. — Half  a  pound  of 
vwd  rubbed  into  a  quart  of  flour ;  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
iu  a  wineglawiul  of  water;  add  this  to  the  flour,  aud  wet  up  witk 
•cut  milk  to  a  smooth  dough. 


584.  An  Easy  Way  of  Making  Crust  for  Plain  Family  Pie^ 
No.  5. — Use  the  weight  of  nine  eggs  in  flour,  and  of  four  eggs  in 
lard  or  butter.  If  butter  is  used,  the  weight  of  eight  eggs  in 
flour  will  be  enough. 


•o" 


585.  Potato  Paste  for  Damplings,  No.  6. — One  pint  of  Irish 
potatoes  mashed  and  strained;  double  the  quantity  of  sifted  flour; 
an  even  tumblerful  of  good,  firm  butter;  wet  up  with  sour  milk, 
into  which  has  been  stirred  enough  soda  to  sweeten  it. 


586.  A  Plainer  Potato  Paste,  No.  7. — Equal  quantities  of 
mashed  Irish  potatoes  and  sifted  flour ;  wet  up  with  sour  cream, 
into  which  has  been  stirred  sufficient  soda  to  sweeten  it.  Alwa/i 
use  salt  in  making  dough — a  teaspoonful  to  a  quart  of  flour. 


587.  A  Suet  Paste  for  Boiled  Dumplings,  No.  8. — Pick  and 
chop  fine  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet;  add  to  it  a  pound  and  a  quar 
ter  of  sifted  flour  and  a  teaspoor.ful  of  salt.  Mix  up  with  a  t  mi 
blerful  of  sweet  milk  or  water.  Beat  it  well  to  incoiporate  the 
iuet  and  flour. 

588.  A  Potato  Paite  for  Meat  Stews,  No.  9. — A  common-sized 
tumbleiful  of  mashed  potatoes  rubbed  through  a  colander;  add 
•ufiicient  flour  to  enable  you  to  roll  well;  salt  as  you  judge  suifi 

.  11* 


250  Mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book 

oVnt — about  a  teaspoonful.     Flour  jour  board  and   pin  weD 
belora  rolling. 

589.  Risen  Paste,  No.  10. — Dough,  made  as  for  light  rotta, 
m/ter  it  has  «•♦*?*>  well,  makes  a  good  crust  for  meat  pies,  and  ft  »r 
oooniou  truit  pies  and  dumplings. 


Pastry  should  be  baked  in  a  quick  over  ;  not,  however,  hot 
enough  to  blister  oj  scorch.  Should  there  be  any  appearance  of 
that,  protect  it  with  a  sheet  of  letter  paper. 

Never  use  rancid  butter  or  lard ! 

In  summer  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  make  good  puff  paste. 
Plaits,  custards,  and  puddings,  are  much  more  easily  prepared, 
and  make  more  elegant  desserts. 

In  baking  fruit  pies  be  very  careful  not  to  let  the  juice  spill  in 
the  oven.  The  burnt  syrup  imparts  a  disagreeable  taste.  It  is 
well  to  elevate  the  plates  a  little  above  the  bottom  of  the  stov« 
or  oven,  tc  prevent  burning  the  under  crust. 


589  J.  Pastry  Crust. — One  quart  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
with  a  knife  chop  into  the  flour  a  teacup  of  lard;  wet  up 
with  very  cold  water,  roll  out  the  dough,  handle  as  little  as  pos- 
sible. Divide  a  cup  of  hard  butter  into  three  pieces ;  lay,  in 
thin  slices,  a  third  of  the  butter  over  the  dough,  sift  over  it  a 
•ittle  flour  ;  roll  out  until  all  the  better  is  used.  Put  the  dough, 
with  a  towel  over  it,  in  a  cool  pla3e  for  half  an  hour.  This  i» 
?eipt  b>  rich  enough  for  e very-day  custards  and  pies. 


PIES. 

51H).  Cranberry  Pie. — Pick  the  unscund  fruit  out  rsaitfully 
wash  and  stew  until  soft;  sweeten  to  taste.  Line  pie-f.lates  with 
9  good  puff  paste;  fill  three-fourths  full  with  the  fruit,  al way t 
heaping  it  a  little  in  the  middle.  Put  in  net  quite  a  tumblerful  of 
the  juice ;  put  over  an  upper  crust,  pinching  the  edges  well  to- 
gether, and  cutting  a  slit  in  the  middle  to  allow  the  steam  to 
escape.  When  done,  sprinkle  thickly  with  pulverized  loaf  sugar, 
and  serve  with  cream  sauce,  flavored  with  nutmeg. 


591.  Blackberry  Pie. — Gather  the  berries  carefully,  without 
bruising,  as  they  are  better  without  being  washed.  Line  a  pie- 
plate  with  good  crust.  Put  in  a  layer  of  the  berries,  then  one  of 
sugar,  and  dust  over  with  a  little  flour.  (Five  tablespoonfuls  of 
good  brown  sugar  and  an  even  tablespoonful  of  flour  will  bo  sufli 
cient  for  a  large  pie.)  In  this  way  fill  the  plate  nearly  full,  heap- 
ing the  fruit  a  little  in  the  middle ;  add  half  a  tumbler  of  water,  and 
put  on  the  upper  crust,  pinching  the  edges  together,  and  cutting  a 
»lit  in  the  centre ;  serve  with  cream  sauce.  This  sauce  is  a  good 
accompaniment  to  all  fruit  pies. 

Any  kind  of  fruit  pies,  such  as  cherries,  raspberries,  plums, 
etc.,  are  made  by  the  foregoing.  A  coat  of  grated  or  pulverized 
sugar  gives  a  nice  finish  to  the  pie. 

5?)2.  Apple  Pie,  No.  1. — Line  a  deep  plate  with  good  crust, 
first  greasing  the  plate  slightly.  Cut  in  thin  slices  ripe,  juicy 
apples ;  fill  the  plate,  putting  in  alternately  apples,  sugar,  and 
•pice  (a  tumbler  of  brown  sugar  will  season  a  quart  of  applet 
of  pleasant  taste) ;  grate  over  half  a  nutmeg,  the  same  of  cinna- 
mon, the  same  of  coriander  seed  (if  they  are  liked),  half  a  tumble* 
of  water;  put  Over  the  upper  crust.  Bake  three  quarters  of  &fi 
Hour, 


252  mrs.  ijtll's  new  COOK  book. 

593.  Apple  Pie,  No.  2. — Fill  a  soup-plate  wifn  tart  applet 
sliced  thin;  pile  the  apples  up  in  the  middle;  put  over  them  a 
crust  of  good  pastry,  greasing  the  edge  of  the  plate  sightly  to 
prevent  the  crust  sticking;  trim  the  dough  off  evenly  allowing 
size  sufficient  to  cover  the  apples  well.  Let  it  bake  until  :ht 
crust  is  a  light  brown  color  and  the  fruit  tender.  Remove  the 
crust  carefully,  first  passing  a  knife  between  the  plate  and  crust. 
Invert  the  crust;  season  the  fruit  to  taste,  and  spread  it  upon  the 
crust ;  grate  nutmeg  over.  Eat  with  rich  cream  or  mock-cream 
sauce. 


594.  Mock-Apple  Pie. — One  large  grated  lemon,  three  large 
goda  crackers,  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  teacups  of 
sugar,  one  egg,  a  wineglass  of  water  poured  over  the  crackers. 
These  will  make  two  pies,  baked  with  two  crusts. 


595.  Peach  Pie. — These  may  be  made  like  apple  pie.  There 
is  a  very  popular  pie  for  common,  every-day  use,  called  "  Cut  and 
Come  Again."  To  make  it :  Line  the  inside  of  an  oven  with 
risen  dough  or  paste  made  by  Receipt  No.  4.  Fill  the  oven 
with  good,  ripe,  juicy  peaches,  sliced  thin  ;  put  in  a  little  water; 
cover  with  a  crust,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  crvist 
is  done ;  remove  the  upper  crust ;  sweeten  and  spice  the  fruit ; 
spread  it  upon  the  upper  crust,  and  lay  the  side  crust  around. 
This  is  best  cold,  and  may  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  for  several 
jays.     Eat  with  cream  sauce. 


59G.  Rhubarb  Pie. — Take  the  tender  stalks  of  the  rhubarb  j*  i  e 
cove  the  skin ;  cut  the  pieces  an  inch  long.  Line  the  pie-plate 
\\  ith  paste  ;  put  a  layer  of  rhubarb  and  a  layer  of  sugar,  spric 
kled  over  thick;  continue  this  until  the  paste  is  nearly  filled, 
Sprinkle  grated  lemon  peel  and  p  llverized  coriander  seed  between 
each  layer  for  flavoring;  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  flour  to  each 
pie  spriL kled  between  the  layers;  add  half  a  teacup  ol  water; 
put   on  an  upper  crust,  pinch  the   edges   down    oarefu.  y,  and 


pies.  *  255 

cut  a  slit  in  the  centre.  Bake  slowly  an  hovr.  In  all  pics  where 
there  is  not  sufficient  fruit  to  prevent  the  crust  fron.  falling  in, 
before  placing  on  the  upper  crust,  cross  three  stout  straws  ou  tht 
top  of  the  pie-p^te  to  support  the  crust.  When  the  pie  is  done, 
the  crust  may  be  loosened  with  a  pen-knife  or  other  small  instru 
meat  sufficiently  to  enable  you  to  remove  the  straws.  Tin  plates 
ire  better  than  earthen  for  baking  pies. 


597.  Sliced  Potato  Pie. — For  baking  this,  a  plate  deeper  than 
J»e  common  pie-plate  is  necessary.  Bake  medium-sized  sweet 
potatoes  not  quite  done ;  yams  are  best.  Line  the  plate  witt 
food  paste ;  slice  the  potatoes  ;  place  a  layer  upon  the  bottom  of 
toe  plate;  over  this  sprinkle  thickly  a  layer  of  good  browr 
sogar;  over  this  place  thin  slices  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  with 
flour,  seasoning  with  spices  to  the  taste.  A  heaped  tablespoonfu. 
of  butter  and  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  flour  will  be  sufficient  foi 
one  pie.  Put  on  another  of  potatoes,  piled  a  little  in  the  middle. 
M;X  together  equal  quantities  of  wine  and  water,  lemon  juice  and 
wuter,  or  vinegar  and  water,  and  pour  in  enough  to  half  fill  the 
pie;  sprinkle  over  the  potato  a  little  flour,  and  place  on  the  upper 
crust,  pinching  the  edges  carefully  together.  Cut  a  slit  in  the 
centre,  and  bake  slowly  for  one  hour. 


fc98.  Imitation  of  Mince  Pie. — An  excellent  imitation  of  mince 
pie  may  be  made  by  placing  between  the  layers  of  potatoes  a 
layr  of  raisins,  currants,  and  chopped  apples,  seasoning  precisely 
ss  for  a  mince  pie. 


579.  Pie-  Melon  Pie. — Peel  the  fruit  and  cut  out  all   the  seed 

\  urt  ;  cut  in  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  scald  them. 
I'ut  them  in  a  stew-pan,  ar.d  cover  with  cc  Id  water,  in  which  has 
beei.  dissolved  enough  of  tartaric  acid  to  make  it  pleasantly  acid, 
Whrn  the  fruit  \»  tender,  sweeter:  it  to  taste,  and  bake  be*  w  era 
iwo  ^rusU?.     A  l'ttle  grated  lenicn  peel  may  ;e  added,  if  liked. 


254  MRS.  HILLS  NEW  COOK  BOOK 

600.  Mince-Meat  Pies. — To  prepare  the  meat :  Chop  fine  tw<! 
pounds  of  lean,  tender  beef,  cold,  boiled,  or  baked ;  remove  at 
skin  and  gristle.  (The  tongue  and  heart  >f  a  very  young  beef 
boiled  tender,  makes  tue  lest  mince-meat.)  Mince  fine  half  a 
pound  of  suet,  one  pound  of  raisins,  seeded ;  one  pound  of 
dried  currants,  washed  and  picked;  half  a  pound  of  citron,  sliced 
thin  ,  the  same  of  candied  orange  or  lemon  peel ;  one  pound  of 
clean,  moist  brown  sugar;  the  juice  of  six  lemons,  the  rinds 
grated  (throw  away  the  pulp);  t.vo  nutmegs  beaten;  one  ounce 
of  salt,  one  of  ground  ginger,  the  same  of  coriander  seed,  pounded 
and  sifted ;  half  an  ounce  of  allspice  and  cloves  each.  Mix  the 
meat,  fruits,  and  spices  well.  Pour  upon  the  sugar  a  pint  of 
wine  and  half  a  pint  of  brandy ;  add  the  fruits  to  the  meat ;  pour 
over  the  wine  and  brandy.  When  it  is  well  mixed,  pack  it  in 
small  jars,  and  pour  over  the  top  of  the  meat  the  best  syrup  an 
inch  thick;  cover  ciosely,  and  keep  the  jars  in  a  cool  place. 
When  ready  to  make  the  pies,  line  pie-plates  with  a  good  crust ; 
add  to  i  pint  of  the  mixture  a  pint  of  tart  apples  chopped,  a  wine- 
glass cf  rose-water.  Fill  the  crust  half  full ;  lay  over  bits  of 
butter;  put  in  more  meat  to  nearly  fill  the  plate;  cover  with 
puff  paste ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle,  and  bake.  They  keep  well. 
Warm  them  before  using.  I  have  eaten  very  good  mir.ce  piei 
made  of  the  flesh  of  rabbits.  Cold  fowls  are  sometimes  used  to 
make  pies  for  immediate  use.  An  excellent  way  to  keep  the  meat 
a  few  weeks  is  to  spice  the  meat,  pack  it  away,  covering  closely 
with  syrup,  aal  add  the  fruits,  wine,  and  brandy  when  the  pies  arc 
made. 

Mince  pies  without  meat  may  be  made  of  apples,  using  the 
nnrce  meat  seasoning.  Sweet  potatoes,  sliced  cr  grated  (half 
done),  are  good  used  in  the  same  way. 

Never  attempt  to  keep  the  meat  more  than  a  month  or  si* 
weeks  in  this  climate. 


G01.    Strawberry  Short- Cake. — Make  a  dough  by  rubbing  into 
a  quart  of  sifted  flour  a  tablespoonful  of  laid,  one  of  butter,  a 


pie&  25  B 

teospoojiful  of  salt.  Wet  this  i.p  with  butter-milk  sweetened 
with  soda  (this  will  be  about  twenty  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  but 
termilk,  or  a  little  less  than  a  pint),  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda 
• — the  soda  will  depend  somewhat  upon  the  acidity  of  the  milk. 
Handle  the  dough  very  little  ;  I  use  a  knife  almost  entirely — 
first  to  chop  in  the  lard,  and  then  to  stir  together  the  flour  and 
milk.  Have  tho  board  and  rolling-pin  well  floured  ;  divide  the 
dough  in  half,  and  rollout  the  size  of  a  breakfast-plate,  half  at, 
inch  thick,  lay  one  cake  in  the  stove-pan ;  put  melted  butter  all 
ovei  the  top ;  lay  over  the  other  cake.  Bake  and  then  shake 
them  apart ;  put  between  them  fresh  strawberries,  slightly  stewed 
with  sugar,  or  use  the  canned  fruit.  Some  like  it  still  richer,  and 
butter  the  bottom  cake  after  it  is  baked,  before  using  the  straw- 
berries.    Eat  with  cream  sauce. 


602.  Icing  or  Meringue  for  Tarts. — A  meringue  spread  upon 
the  top  of  these  open  pies  gives  them  a  very  elegant  finish. 
Make  the  meringue  in  this  way :  Whip  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a 
stirF froth.  To  this  add,  for  each  eggt  a  tablespoonful  of  pulver- 
ized loaf  sugar.  Whip  this  in,  and  flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla,  or 
rose-water,  or  any  flavoring  preferred.  Spread  this,  with  a  knife, 
carefully  upon  the  fruit;  return  the  tart  to  the  oven,  and  let  it 
remain  until  the  meringue  becomes  of  a  very  pale  brown  coh  r. 
The  effect  is  very  fine  when  the  meringue  and  the  crust  are  of  the 
game  shade.  (Should  the  cook,  however,  inadvertently  allow  the 
crust  to  burn,  she  need  not  consider  herself  obligated  oo  blacker 
the  meringue.)  The  whites  of  twe  large  eggs  madf  into  a  mm 
ringue  will  cover  two  large  tart*. 


PUDDINGS. 

**  Method  le  cftsential  to  the  diepatch  of  all  business ;  foi  what  Lb  well  arrangod  pro 
/•eds  with  ease  and  regularity. " 

I  have  ofte  been  asked,  "  What  is  the  difference  beU  een  pud- 
dings  and  custards,  as,  in  the  receipts  usually  given  in  Cookery 
Hooks,  there  seems  but  little  distinction  made?" 

My  classification  is  simply  this :  Puddings  are  baked  without 
crusts  and  usually  in  deeper  vessels ;  are  generally  served  hot 
and  eaten  with  sauces.  Custards,  on  the  contrary,  are,  as  a  gen- 
eral thing,  baked  in  rich  paste,  and  usually  served  cold. 

Boiled  puddings  and  custards  require  no  classification. 

All  puddings  made  with  soda  and  sour  milk  should  be  bak«d 
in  a  quick  oven.  The  eggs  should  be  beaten  separately  ;  the  flour 
and  whites  added  alternately,  putting  in  at  least  a  third  of  the  floitr 
last,  or  the  whites  will  float  upon  the  top,  and  as  soon  as  the  pud- 
ding is  exposed  to  the  air,  will  fall.  Beat  the  yolks  well ;  add  a 
little  flour  and  a  little  salt ;  then  pour  in  a  small^quantity  of  milk, 
if  it  is  used ;  pour  very  little  milk  at  once  or  the  batter  will  be 
lumpy.  When  half  of  the  flour  is  used  with  the  milk,  stir  in  the 
whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  then  the  remainder  of  the  flour, 
and,  should  any  milk  remain,  stir  it  in  last.  Just  before  baking 
if  soda  is  used,  sprinkle  it  over  the  top  and  beat  it  in  quicklv,  or 
dissolve  it  in  the  last  milk  added.  Batter  for  puddings  should 
always  be  strained  through  a  hair  sieve.  No  matter  how  cartful 
iy  it  is  prepared,  there  will  be  lumps  which  can  be  removed  only 
by  straining,  and  wThich,  if  allowed  to  remain,  would  render  thu 
pudding  more  or  less  heavy.  When  fruit  is  used,  it  should  be 
pn  pared  the  day  before  it  is  wanted.  Seed  the  raisins ;  wash 
and  pick  the  currants  and  dry  them,  so  that  'here  will  be  no  hin- 
djftnee  when  the  hour  for  making   the  pudding  arrives.     Fruit 


PUDDINGS.  257 

should  be  floured,  or  it  will  sink  to  the  b<  ttom.  The  oven  must 
not  be  quite  so  hot  for  a  fruit  pudding  as  for  one  without.  Should 
the  puddiug  brown  too  fast  after  it  has  risen  and  a  crust  begin  to 
form,  lay  over  it  a  sheet  of  letter  paper.  If  the  paper  is  put  on 
too  soon,  the  batter  will  adhere  to  it,  and,  in  raising  the  pap(  r,  tht 
mist  will  be  broken. 

For  boiled  puddings,  follow  the  directions  for  mixing  baked 
puddings.  For  a  bag,  use  a  square  of  coarse,  thick  linen.  It 
should  be  boiled,  rinsed  well,  dried,  ironed  and  put  away  careful- 
ly as  soon  as  used.  Strong  tape  should  be  kept  for  tying.  Be- 
fore pouring  the  batter  in,  scald  the  cloth,  lay  it  in  a  bowl,  flour 
it  well  and  evenly  ;  pour  the  batter  in,  gather  up  the  ends  carefully, 
allowing  room  for  it  to  swell  (some  kinds  of  batter  require  more 
room  tiian  others,  corn  meal  more  than  wheat  flour).  Tie  secure- 
ly. Put  a  small  piece  of  dough  (made  by  stirring  a  little,  flour 
and  water  together)  directly  over  the  place  where  the  cloth  is  tied, 
and  tie  above  the  dough  with  a  piece  of  broad  tape,  so  as  to  make 
a  long  loop.  Run  a  flat  stick  through  this  loop,  strong  enough 
to  support  the  weight  of  the  pudding,  and  long  enough  to  reach 
across  the  top  of  the  vessel  in  which  it  is  boiled.  Suspend  the 
bag  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  so  that  it  will  not  touch  the  bottom. 
It  must  be  completely  immersed  in  water  and  kept  so  during  the 
process.  Should  the  water  become  too  much  reduced,  replenish 
with  boiling  water,  a  kettle  of  which  should  be  kept  for  this 
purpose.  When  the  pudding  is  taken  out  of  the  pot,  lay  it  for  a 
few  minutes  in  cold  water,  to  disengage  it  from  the  cloth.  All 
tb.»,  pans,  rolling-pin,  board,  and  strainer,  in  short,  everything  to 
be  used  must  be  perfectly  clean  and  ready  for  use,  so  that  no  tiina 
k  lDst  in  "  running  round "  looking  up  things.  All  material! 
*b  >uld  be  fresh  and  good.  In  summer  lay  the  eggs  in  cold  water. 
Always  sifl  and  sun  the  flour,  or  heat  it  before  the  fire. 


603.  Plain  Baked  Pudding. — One  pint  of  sifted  flour,  a  quart 
of  sour  milk,  and  seven  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  then  stir 
them  together;  add  the  flour,  and  a  iittle  salt  (a  quarter  of  a  tea- 


258  mrs. 

spoonful),  the  milk  last.  Grease  the  mould  in  which  it  is  to  be 
baked.  Have  the  oven  or  stove  ready  for  baking.  Stir  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  tablcspooi  ful  of 
warm  water;  pour  the  batter  into  the  mculd,  and  l»ake  quiuk 
Eat  with  liquid  sauce. 


004.  Mrs.  W? s  Baked  Pudding . — Eight  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
eigh4.  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  as  full  as  can  be  dipped  up ;  three 
tumblers  of  sweet  milk,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter;  beat  well, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.     Eat  with  wine  sauce. 


G05.  Baked  Pudding  (excellent). — Two  tumblerfuls  of  sifted 
flour,  the  same  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Mix 
the  eggs  ;  add  the  flour  ;  then  the  milk  ;  strain  it.  Butter  a  deep 
earthen  dish;  stir  rapidly  into  the  batter  a  teaspoonful  of  yeast 
powder,  and  pour  into  the  dish.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Eat 
with  a  liquid  sauce.  These  puddings  should  be  put  to  bake  when 
the  rest  of  the  dinner  is  ready  to  be  taken  up.  If  long  exposed 
to  the  air,  they  fall. 


606.  Bread  Pudding. — Pour  over  twelve  tablespoonfuls  of 
fine  light  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  three  tumblerfuls  of  boiling 
sweet  milk.  Let  it  stand  covered  until  half  an  hour  before  dinner 
Then  mix  with  six  eggs  well  beaten,  nine  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  a  small  grated  lemon,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  not 
heaped.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  To  ascertain  whether  a  pud- 
ding is  done,  pierce  it  near  the  centre  with  a  large  straw  or  knife* 
blade ;  if  no  batter  adheres  to  it,  the  pudding  is  done. 


<M>7.  The  Queen  of  Puddings — Mrs.  C.'s  Receipt. — One  pin 
of  bread  crumbs;  pour  over  them  a  quart  of  hot  sweet  nJlk; 
beat  a  tumbler  of  sugar  to  the  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  add  to  the 
milk,  while  warm,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  hen's  egg, 
and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Mash  the  bread  smoothly, 
When  saturated  with  the  milk,  pour  it  on  the  eggs,  stirring  well 


PUDDINGS.  250 

th/.ter  a  deep  Rattan  dish ;  pour  this  mixture  in,  tnd  hake  until 
the  ousiurd  is  rirrn  (it  uaked  too  long,  or  if  the  oven  is  too  ho**,  it 
will  re  watery).  Takw  it  out  of  the  oven,  and  spread  over  the 
top  a  layer  of  jelly,  marmalade,  or  sweetmeats  of  any  kind. 
Beat  to  a  3tilT  froth  the  *  hites  of  four  eggs ;  add  to  them  the 
lemon  juice,  and  for  each  egg  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  loaf 
•ugar.  Pile  this  over  the  pudding,  and  return  to  the  oven  lc  ng 
enough  to  color  it  a  delicaW-  brown.  Serve  cold  with  arrow- loot 
or  cream  sauce. 


G08.  Irish  Potato  Pudding. — One  quart  of  boiled  milk,  mixed 
Mith  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mashed  Irish  potato,  the  same  of 
flour,  and  an  ounce  or  two  of  butter.  When  it  is  cold,  add  three 
eggs  well  beaten ;  bake  half  an  hour ;  eat  with  wine  sauce. 


601).  Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. — Butter  a  deep  pudding-dish ; 
line  the  bottom  with  thin  slices  of  light  bread,  well  buttered; 
upon  this,  a  thick  layer  of  currants,  raisins,  and  citron ;  another 
layer  of  buttered  bread.  Make  a  custard  by  beating  six  or  eight 
eggs,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  nice  sugar  and  a  quart  of  milk. 
Pour  half  this  custard  on  the  bread  in  the  pudding-dish,  and  let 
it  stand  half  an  hour.  Pour  over  the  remainder  of  the  custard, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Large  crackers  may  be  split  and 
buttered,  and  used  in  the  same  way.  Serve  with  mock  cream  or 
arrowroot  sauce. 


610.  Poor  Man's  Pudding. — Pour  one  quart  of  hot  sweet  milk 
ever  a  pint  of  stale  bread  or  biscuit  cumbs;  let  them  soak  an 
hour ;  sweeten  to  taste.  Beat  two  eggs  well ;  mix  with  the  bread , 
•tir  all  well.  Season  with  orange  peel,  dried,  beaten  fine  and 
sifted.  Bake  half  an  hour,  just  as  dinner  is  ready,  It  §h(  *ild  be 
eaten  as  »x>n  as  (i<»n»»   w'th  solid  butter  sauce. 


2<JU  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

611  Chambliss  Pudding. — Three  eggs,  a  btiaU  te&c  »p  of 
Dutter,  a  teacup  of  crushed  sugar,  two  teacups  of  sifted  Ik  ur 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  ;  cream  me  butter  and 
flour  together,  adding  the  flour  as  in  making  a  cake;  add  the 
whites  last.  A  dessert-spoonful  of  yeast  powder.  Pour  in  a 
Duttered  pan,  and  bike  in  a  quick  oven.  Eat  with  transpai  ent  sauce. 


612.  Fig  Pudding. — To  half  a  pound  of  figs  add  the  same 
quantity  of  bread-crumbs,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef 
suet.  Mince  the  suet  and  figs  as  fine  as  possible.  A  tumbler- 
ful of  white  sugar ;  two  well-beaten  eggs ;  teacupful  of  sweet 
milk.     Mix  well  and  boil  three  hours.     Eat  with  wine  sauce. 


613.  Molasses  Pudding. — One  pint  of  good  syrup,  a  common- 
sized  teacup  not  quite  full  of  melted  butter,  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
a  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  tumblerful  of  sour  milk,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda ;  mix  all  together,  with  flour  enough  to  make  a 
batter  the  consistence  of  pound-cake  batter.  Bake  for  an  hour, 
in  a  deep,  buttered  pan.  Turn  it  out ;  grate  sugar  over  it,  arul 
eat  with  a  rich  sauce. 


614.  Quick  Pudding. — Soften  as  much  sponge-cake  as  you 
wish  to  use  with  hot,  rich  sweet  milk — let  it  soak.  Just  before 
dinner  make  a  boiled  custard  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  pour 
it  hot  over  Lhe  cake ;  beat  it  well ;  season  to  taste ;  bake  until 
fiim.  Put  a  meringue  over  the  custard.  Make  the  meringue 
by  whipping  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
yilverized  sugar  for  each  egg  ;  flavor.     Better  eaten  with  sauce. 


615  Taylor  Pudding. — One  cup  of  butter,  creamed,  frro 
sups  of  sugar,  beaten  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Add  Ihii.  to 
the  butter;  stir  all  well  together;  add  alternately  the  whitea, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  six  even  teacupfjls  of  sifted  flour ;  thii 


PUDDINGS.  2GI 

with  two  cups  c f  buttermilk.  Dissolve  a  large  teaspoonfil  (not 
heaped)  of  soda  in  a  wineglass  of  warm  water,  and  add  last. 
Bake  in  a  quick  open,  not  hot  enough  to  scorch.  Eat  vith  liquid 
iiuoe. 


616.  Charleston  Pudding. — Beat  six  eggs  separately,  addin 
bree  teacups  oi  crushed  sugar  to  the  yolks.  Cream  togethei 
tear  teacups  of  flour,  one  of  butter,  and  one  of  sweet  milk.  Sift 
A  teaspoonful  of  soda  with  the  flour.  Dissolve  two  teaspoonfuli 
of  cream  of  tartar  in  a  small  wineglass  of  cold  water.  Add^ 
lastly,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  them  in  lightly. 
All  the  beating  to  the  pudding  must  be  done  before  the  whites 
are  added.  Bake,  and  turn  out.  Sift  over  it  fine  loaf  sugar. 
Eat  with  sauce. 


617.  Corn  Meal  Pudding,  No.  1. — One  pint  of  sifted  meal,  one 
tumbler  of  good  molasses,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  grated  lemon  peel  or  powdered  mace  to  flavor  it. 
Boil  the  milk  ;  while  hot,  pour  it  upon  the  meal,  and  mix  well. 
Warm  the  butter.  Stir  to  the  molasses  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Beat  the  eggs  separately ;  add  the  eggs  when  the  mush  is 
cold.  Mix  all  well.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish.  Eat  with  a  rich 
liquid  sauce. 

618.  Corn  Meal  Pudding  without  Eggs. — Seven  heaped 
tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  corn  meal,  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  lard 
or  butter,  heaped ;  a  tumblerful  of  molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
powdered  ginger,  a  quart  of  hot  sweet  milk.  Mix  well,  and  pour 
Into  a  buttered  dish,  and  just  as  it  is  put  into  the  oven,  stir  in 
not  qi.;te  a  tumblerful  of  cold  water.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Servt 
with  a  rich  sauce. 


610.  Apple  Pudding  (excellent). — Peel  and  core  eight  or  nint 
pleasantly  acid  apples,  of  rather  small  or  medium  size.  Put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  with  half  a  tumbler  o'   water,  a  wineglaat 


<&52  MRS.    niLI.  8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

of  v/iue,  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  crushed  sugar,  £  snail  stick  of 
cinnamon,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  little  lemon  peel.  Put  the  cover 
on  the  stew-pan,  and  stew  slowly,  until  the  apples  are  tender. 
Take  them  up,  and  let  them  get  cold.  Fill  the  bottom  of  an 
e&ithen  dish  with  the  apples,  and  pour  ovrer  them  a  rich  custard 
made  by  beating  together  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  whites 
ci  four.  Scald  a  quart  of  milk;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  stir  to  the 
eggs  slowly,  stirring  constantly.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  An 
oven  too  hot  will  make  the  custard  watery.  Serve  with  solid 
sauce,  if  the  pudding  is  eaten  hot;  liquid  sauce,  if  cold. 

A  similar  pudding  may  be  made  by  pouring  over  the  apples  a 
thin  batter,  instead  of  a  custard.  The  proportions  for  this  are 
one  tumblerful  of  sifted  flour,  three  tumblerfuls  of  milk,  four 
eggs,  beaten  together.  Make  a  smooth  batter,  and  pour  over  the 
apples  when  they  are  cold. 


620.  Snow  Pudding. — One  ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  one 
pint  of  water ;  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs,  juice  of  four  lemons;  flavor;  beat  ail 
together  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  a  bowl,  eat  with  sweetened 
cream. 


621 .  Tapioca  Pudding,  No.  1 . — Pour  a  quart  of  milk  over  a 
tumbler  of  tapioca.  The  milk  should  be  boiling  hot,  and  sweet- 
ened to  the  taste.  Beat  six  eggs  well,  and  when  the  milk  is 
nearly  cold,  pour  it  slowly  upon  the  eggs,  stirring  rapidly ;  season 
with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Bako  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and 
serve  with  rich  sauce, 


C22.  Tapioca  Pudding,  No.  2. — Soak  a  tumblerful  of  tapioca 
for  one  hour  in  two  tumblerfuls  of  milk.  Put  in  a  stew-pan  half  a 
dozen  medium-sized  tart  apples,  peeled  and  cored ;  the  cavities 
filled  with  sugar  and  a  little  powdered  cinnamon.  Pour  to  them 
a  tumblerful  of  water ;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  stew  uutil  th« 


PUDDINOS.  263 

•pples  are  tender.  Take  th  mi  up  ;  put  them  in  a  fire-proof  dish ; 
pour  over  them  any  syrup  that  may  remain  in  the  stew-pan  ;  add 
to  the  tapioca  another  tumblerful  of  rich,  sweet  milk  ;  pour  over 
the  apples,  and  bake.     Eat  with  rich,  solid,  butter  sauce. 

623.  /Sago  Pudding. — Wash  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sago  in 
X>ld  water;  pour  this  otF,  and  cover  with  boiling  watov  ;  bt  Lhu 
•tand  until  the  water  that  covers  the  sago  is  lukewarm ;  s-tir  veil. 
Peel  and  core  enough  tart  apples  to  cover  the  bottom  of  a  bak- 
ing-dish ;  fill  the  holes  with  sugar,  and  sprinkle  some  over  the 
apples  ;  strew  over  a  seasoning  of  lemon-juice,  grated  peel,  and  a 
nutmeg  ;  stir  the  sago  well,  and  pour  it  over  the  apples.  A  little 
more  water  may  be  necessary.  Let  this  stand  after  baking  until 
cool.     Eat  with  cream  sauce. 


624.  Grated  Potato  Pudding. — One  pint  of  sugar,  half  a  pint 
of  molasses,  one  large  spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  pint  of  sweet 
potatoes,  grated.  Mix  well,  and  add  sweet  milk  enough  to  make 
quite  thin;  season  with  orange  peel,  beaten  fine,  and  ginger. 
After  it  is  mixed,  add  to  it  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  a 
very  slow  oven  to  allow  it  to  candy  over  the  top. 

625.  Sweet  Potato  Pudding. — Take  half  a  pound  of  sweet 
potatoes;  wash  them,  and  put  them  into  a  pot  with  a  very  little 
water — barely  enough  to  prevent  their  burning.  Let  them  sim- 
mer slowly  for  about  half  an  hour;  they  must  be  only  parboiled, 
otherwise  they  will  be  soft,  and  make  the  pudding  heavy.  When 
they  are  half  done,  take  them  out ;  peel  them,  and,  when  cold, 
grate  them.  Stir  together  to  a  cream  half  a  pound  of  butter  and 
six  ounces  of  powdered  sugar;  add  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  large  tea- 
spoonful  of  beaten  mace,  the  juice  and  grated  peel  o**<  ne  lemon,  • 
wineglass  of  rose-water,  a  glass  of  wine,  and  a  glass  of  brandy. 
Btir  these  ingredients  together.  Beat  eight  eggs  very  light,  and 
Stir  them  into  the  mixture  alternately  with  the  potato,  a  little  of 
each  at  a  time.  Having  stirred  the  whole  very  hard  at  the  last, 
pour  iDto  a  buttered  disJi  auJ  bike  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
To  be  eaten  cold. 


264  mrs.  hill's  new  cook   book. 

626.  Secession  Pudding  (excellent). — Four  teacups  of  sifted  flour> 
three  of  dry  crushed  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon ful  of 
sod j,  two  of  cream  of  tartar.  Stir  the  soda  in  the  flour;  dissolrc 
the  cream  of  taitar  in  a  little  cold  water;  six  eggs  beaten  separately. 
When  the  buttermilk  or  clabber  is  used,  omit  sweet  milk  and  cream 
of  taitar.  Buttermilk  may  be  used  instead  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Bat  with  a  rich  sauce. 


527  Sunderland  Pudding. — Six  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sifted  flour,  one  pint  of  mi]'<c,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  yolks 
well ;  mix  them  smoothly  with  the  flour,  then  add  the  milk. 
Lastly,  whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth ;  beat  them  in,  and  bake 
immediately.     Eat  with  liquid  sauce,  flavored  with  vanilla. 


028.  A  Superior  Bread  Pudding. —  Three  pints  of  milk 
scalded,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  elven  ounces  of  grated  bread. 
Pour  the  hot  milk  over  the  bread  at  least  an  hour  before  the 
pudding  is  made.  A  good  plan  is  to  put  the  bread  to  soak 
before  you  rise  from  the  breakfast-table.  To  make  the  pudding, 
add  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  five  eggs, 
well  beaten.  Flavor  with  mace,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.     Eat  with  rich  sauce. 


620.  Bice  Pudding. — A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  boiled 
until  soft.  Whil«  boiling,  stir  frequently  to  prevent  scorching. 
While  warm,  add  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  To  six 
eggs,  beaten  separately,  and  afterwards  mixed,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  a  wineglass  of  rose-water,  or  any  flavoring  pre- 
ferred     Eat  with  transparent  sauce.     Put  a  meringue  over  this. 


630.  French  Pudding. — Put  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  half  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  tin  bucket ;  set  this  in 
a  pan  of  boiling  water ;  when  hot,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  six  eggs 
Then  have  ready  in  a  pan  on  the  stove  a  teacup  of  hot  watei 
Mid   one   of    white   sugar.      Pour   into    this    the    whites,   weli 


PUDDINGS. 


26ft 


whipped.  Stir  this  together  and  then  add  it  to  the  yolk.  4.  Takt 
it  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  flavor  with  a  ieaspoonf  il  of  va- 
nilla and  pour  into  moulds.  Eat  with  cream  or  cus'  ml.  Jo 
n infer  make  it  several  hours  before  it  is  used.  Ins  miner  it 
q  ay  be  made  the  previous  evening  or  set  on  ice. 


631.  A  Custard  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  eij  ht  egg*, 
eight  tablespoonfuls  of  flour:  wot  up  the  flour  with  suffk  ent  milk 
to  make  it  into  a  paste ;  put  the  remainder  of  the  milk  o  l  to  boil. 
As  it  boils,  stir  in  the  paste  ;  let  it  boil  five  Minutes ;  the  a  pour  it 
off.  When  cool,  add  the  eggs,  previously  well  beaten;  flavor  to 
taste.  Butter  earthen  cups ;  pour  the  custard  into  th«9  eups,  and 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it.  Fill  a  stove  baking-pan  to  the 
depth  of  an  inch  with  boiling  water;  set  the  cups  in  it,  and  bake 
until  the  custard  is  firm  enough  to  turn  out.  Serve  with  trana 
parent  sauce. 

632.  A  Quick  Pudding. — Mix  three  tablespoonful?  of  flour 
with  three  of  sweet  milk.  Put  a  quart  of  milk  to  boil,  A"d,  as  it 
boils,  stir  in  the  paste.  Beat  three  eggs  well,  and  add  the  milk 
to  them  when  tepid.  Bake  in  a  buttered  earthen  di*h,  am*  as 
soon  as  baked,  eat  with  a  rich  butter  sauce. 


633.  California  Pudding. — One  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  ? 
cup  of  butter,  all  creamed  together.  One  cup  of  sweet  milk 
four  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two  of  cream  of 
Urtar,  or  a  dessertspoonful  of  yeast  powder.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oren,  and  eat  with  transparent  sauce. 


634.  A  Oooa  Cheap  Pudding. — Two  tumblers  of  sifted  flour, 
©tie  of  crushed  sugar,  one  egg,  a  light  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
teacup  not  quite  full  of  sour  milk,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a 
teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon ;  cream  the  butter,  sugar,  and 


266  MRS. 

egg  together  well;  stir  the  scda  to  the  flour,  and  add  alternately 
the  flour  and  the  milk  until  all  are  mixed.  Have  ready  a  hut* 
tered  dish,  and  bake  immediately  in  a  quick  oven.  Eat  with  a 
sauce 


635.  Boiled  Puddings. — I  omitted  to  mention  in  the  proper 
place  that  a  mould  is  sometimes  used  for  boiling  puddings.  I 
gie&tly  prefer  a  bag.  When  the  mould  is  used  it  should  have 
a  well-fitting  cover,  or  be  carefully  tied  over  with  a  strong 
liner  cloth,  as  the  smallest  quantity  of  water  getting  in  would 
spoil  the  pudding. 

636.  Currant  Pudding. — One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  six  eggs, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  of  sugar,  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
butter,  half  a  pound  of  currants.  Cover  the  bread  crumbs  with 
a  quart  of  boiling  milk ;  add  the  butter ;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar 
together ;  add  the  flour.  When  the  milk  is  nearly  cold,  pour  it 
slowly  to  the  eggs,  stirring  constantly,  to  make  a  smooth  batter ; 
strain  through  thin  muslin.  Flour  the  currants  well ;  add  lastly. 
Scald  the  bag ;  flour  it  well  on  the  inside ;  pour  in  the  batter,  and 
boil  two  hours.     Serve  with  a  rich  sauce. 


637.  Quaking  Pudding. — -.One  quart  of  milk,  nine  eggs  beaten 
separately,  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  half  a  tcaspoonful  of  salt. 
Boil  two  hours.     Eat  with  a  rich  sauce. 


638.  Cracker  Pudding. — Pour  over  four  soda  crackers  a  pint 
of  boiling  milk.  When  cool,  mash  well.  Beat  four  eggs  well ; 
atir  to  them  a  tablespoonful  of  fl<  ur  Mix  all  well,  and  boil  an 
hour.     Eat  with  rich  sauce. 


639.  Boiled  Plum  Pudding. — Two  tarnb.ers  of  fine  bread 
Crumbs,  one  tumbler  of  sifted  flour,  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  seeded 
and  crt  in  half;  the  same  of  currants,  picked  and  dried  ;  a  largt 
piece  <  f  citron,  cut  into  strips.  Chop  half  a  pound  of  dried  beef 
suet ;  soak  several  hours  in  a  tumbler  of  brandy  or  v  ine,  a  table. 


PUT)DI>Q8.  2rt* 

spoonful  of  mace  and  cinnamon  mixed.  Add  *o  trie  batter  on* 
v>%ten  nutmeg;  two  grated  lemons,  removing  the  seed;  ten 
eggs  beaten  well  with  a  tumbler  of  sugar.  Four  upon  the  bread 
two  tumblers  of  rich  milk,  very  hot;  mash  it,  and  mix  the  in 
p.  ec.ents,  first  flouring  the  fruit  well,  or  it  will  fall  to  the  bottom. 
Gtu  th«.  pudding  well;  scald  your  pudding-bag;  lay  it  in  a  bow« 
fl^ur  it  thickly;  pour  in  the  batter;  tie  well,  and  folic w  the 
directions  for  boiling.  Serve  with  a  rich  sauce,  for  which  a 
variety  of  excellent  receipts  are  given  in  this  book. 

This  pudding  will  require  six  hours  constant  boiling.  Lay  it  in 
a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  turn  several  times  before  suspending 
it.  Some  persons  boil  without  suspending,  turning  the  pudding 
frequently,  and  putting  a  plate  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot  to  preven 
the  bag  from  scorching.  Always  lay  the  pudding  in  a  pan  of 
cold  water  a  few  minutes  before  turning  it  out  of  the  bag.  Butter 
is  sometimes  used  instead  of  suet,  using  rather  less  butter.  If 
any  of  the  pudding  is  left,  tie  in  a  cloth  and  re-boil  an  hour. 


640.  Dr.  Kitchiner's  Plum  Pudding. — Suet  chopped  fine,  six 
ounces;  raisins,  seeded  and  cut,  six  ounces;  the  same  of  currants, 
washed  and  dried;  bread  crumbs,  three  ounces;  the  same  o! 
flour,  three  eggs,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  teaspoonful  of  mace  and  cinna- 
mon mixed,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tumbler  of  milk,  four 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  little  citron  and  orange  peel.  Beat  the  eggs 
well;  add  the  spice;  mix  the  milk  in  by  degrees;  then  the  rest 
of  the  ingredients.  Boil  in  a  cloth,  as  already  directed,  in  plenty 
(»f  water.  It  must  boil  steadily,  or  the  pudding  will  be  heavy. 
IScil  six  hours.     Prepare  everything  the  day  before  it  is  wanted. 


611.  A  Simple  Fruit  Pudding. — One  pint  of  ^our  milk  ;  half 
A  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  light  bread  crumbs,  a  pound  of 
raisins  (seeded  and  cut),  or  a  pound  of  dried  peaches,  or  peach 
chips  cat  very  fine;  six  ounces  of  crushed  sugar,  si.*  ounces  ol 
suet  oi  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  very  thoroughly,  *"j<! 
boil  briskly  three  hours.     Eat  with  wine  sauce. 


2<\3  MRS.  ittll's  new  cook  book. 

012.  Mrs.  P.'s  Plum  Pudding. — Roll  a  pint  of  cracker i ;  poui 
on  tncm  a  quart  of  milk,  in  which  has  been  melted  halt' a  cup  of 
butter.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  crushed  sugar  to  five  eggs, 
%nJ  biat  well.  Mash  the  crackers  well  in  il.e  milk,  and  pour  to 
Uie  eggs.  Pi  ur  a  part  of  the  milk  from  the  crackers  on  half 
tumblerful  of  flour,  so  as  to  form  a  paste,  and  add  to  the  othe* 
Ingredients.  Add  a  wineglass  of  wine,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants, 
and  twe  ounces  of  citron.  Flour  the  fruit  well  before  adding. 
Hoi  I  two  hours,  and  serve  with  a  rich  sauce.  This  pudding  if 
also  good  baked. 

t>43.  A  Cheap  Currant  Pudding. — Three  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  beaten  with  the  yolks,  a 
small  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  saucer  of  currants,  a  tumbler  of 
bread  crumbs,  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour,  three  turn, 
olerfuls  of  sweet  milk,  a  wine  glass  of  wine.     Boil  one  hour  and 

half.     Eat  with  sauce. 


tt44.  Almond  Pudding. — Blanch  a  pound  of  almonds;  beat 
fchem  to  a  paste,  pouring  in,  gradually,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose 
or  orange  water,  to  prevent  their  oiling.  Stir  to  them  two  tum- 
blerfuls  of  rich  cream,  two  wineglasses  of  milk,  two  of  wine,  ten 
eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  flour,  one  of 
breadcrumbs.     Boil  half  an  hour.     Eat  with  arrowroot  sauce. 


(145  A  Charlotte. — Make  a  paste  by  receipt  No.  0  or  8. 
Roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  ineh  thick,  and  spread  to  within  an  inch 
of  each  edge  with  stewed  cranberries,  blackberry  or  raspberry 
jam,  or  any  kind  of  stewed  or  preserved  fruit,  jelly,  or  manna 
!ade.  Roll  carefully ;  fold  around  it  a  strong  cloth  or  napkin, 
and  tie  securely  at  each  end.  If  it  is  a  large  Char'iotte,  be  il  two 
aours.     Eat  with  solid  butter  sauce. 


645J     Cottage  Pudding.— One  pint  of  flour,  one  egg,  teasroor* 
ful  of  butter  melted  and  stirred  in,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  tea* 

~eaat  powder. 


DUMPLINGS,  ETC. 

646.  BuiUd  Apple  Dumplings. — After  making  the  pas*«,  divid« 
nto  as  many  pieces  as  there  are  apples.  Pare  and  core  medium 
■ized  apples  that  are  easy  to  e<>ok  ;  sweetenings  will  not  answer. 
Fill  the  cavities  with  marmalade  or  jelly.  Iloll  the  pieces  of  past* 
to  about  the  size  of  a  small  saucer;  put  the  fruit  in  the  middle; 
draw  the  paste  around,  enclosing  the  fruit  well.  The  edges  of 
the  dough  should  nearly  meet,  not  lap.  Tie  iu  thin  muslin, 
separately  ;  drop  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Thiee  quarters  of 
an  hour  will  be  required  to  boil  them.  They  are  pretty  boiled 
in  coarse  knit  or  crocheted  cloths.     Serve  with  hard  butter  sauce. 


647.  Apple  Dumplings  {Stewed). — Pare  and  core  the  apples, 
put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  and  parboil  them  a  little.  Fill  the 
cavities  with  any  kind  of  sweetmeats.  Roll  out  pieces  of  potato 
paste  to  the  size  of  a  common  saucer;  place  an  apple  upon  each 
piece  (some  persons  stew  the  truit  first,  and  place  about  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  upon  each  piece  of  paste) ;  close  the  edges  of 
the  paste  around  the  fruit.  Put  the  dumplings  in  a  large  fire- 
proof dish  without  piling.  Make  a  sauce  of  enough  water 
to  cover  the  dumplings;  sweeten  to  taste;  add  for  a  dozen 
dumplings  half  a  pound  of  butter;  flavor  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  cinnamon.  Pour  this  over  the  dumplings.  Set  the 
pan  or  dish  in  the  stove  or  oven;  stew  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
Turn  them  once,  when  half  done.  Serve  the  liquor  in  the  dish  for 
aauce.  Should  the  water  become  too  in  jch  reduced,  add  a  tit Ut 
water,  just  enough  to  make  the  sauce. 


648.  Apple  Dumpling*  (Baked). — Make  a  paste  by  receipt 
No.  2.  Pare  and  core  the  apples,  filling  the  cavitie*  \*ilh  sugar, 
and  flavored  with  essence  of  lemon.     Enclose  the  *p|ita  aepa 


27C  MRS.    niLl/s    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

rately  in  the  paste;  put  them  in  a  tin  pan,  and  bake  them.    Servt 
not,  with  rich,  solid  butter  sauce. 


6-19  Snow  Balls. — W**sh  and  pick  half  a  pound  of  rice ;  boil 
\.  cotered  with  water,  ten  minutes;  drain  though  a  sieve,  and 
(•read  on  a  dish  to  dry.  Peel  and  core  six  apples,  medium 
i:-ced.  Divide  the  rice  into  six  parts ;  envelop  each  apple  in  a 
portion  of  the  rice  (the  cavities  in  the  apples  first  filled  with 
powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon).  Tie  separately  in  cloths,  loosely, 
Boil  one  hour.     Eat  with  a  rich  sauce. 


650.  Fritters. — Three  eggs,  three  tumblerfuls  of  sifted  flour, 
two  tumblerfuls  of  milk  (sour  milk  or  buttermilk) ;  beat  the 
aggs  separately,  adding  to  the  yolks,  alternately,  the  flour  and 
milk.  Stir  in  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Whisk  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  lightly  into  the  batter  last.  Have  ready 
a  pan  of  boiling  lard,  and  drop  the  batter  in  by  spoonfuls;  color 
a  light  brown  on  both  sides. 


650|-.  Orange  Dumpling. — Light  paste,  roll  out  and  lay  on 
oranges  cut  thin,  sprinkle  over  with  sugar,  and  a  little  grated 
peel,  fold  the  ends  securely.  Boil  in  a  cloth  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Lemon  sauce ;  six  eggs,  leave  out  two  whites,  one-half  pound  of 
butter,  one  pound  of  sugar ;  grate  two  lemons,  add  all ;  put  in  a 
pm  over  a  slow  fire,  stir  until  thick  as  honey. 


051.  Bell  Fritters. — Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  piece  of  butter  the 
*ize  of  a  large  hen's  egg ;  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
and  set  it  upon  the  stove  until  it  is  ready  to  boil.  Stir  in  a  pin 
*f  flour,  making  a  smooth  paste.  Let  this  remain  on  the  fire 
few  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the 
vessel ;  when  thick  «s  mush,  remove  it  from  the  fire.  When 
milk-warm,  beat  in  one  egg  at  a  .ime  until  five  are  added;  put 
lc  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  a  pint  of  lard  in  a  small,  deep 
vessel.     Make  the  fritters  in  small  balls,  about  the  size  of  a 


DUMPLIN08,  ITC.  27  \ 

small  hen's  egg,  and  drop  into  the  boiling  lard.  Fry  a  delicate 
brown,  and  serve  upon  a  dish  the  bottom  (f  which  has  been 
covered  with  a  napkin.     Eat  with  cream  and  sugar  sauce. 

652,  Bread  Fritters. — Cut  stale  light  rolls  or  rusks  into  sHcet 
kalf  an  inch  thick.  Beat  two  eggs,  and  add  to  them  a  tumblerfu 
of  rica  milk,  sweetened  to  taste  and  flavored  with  cinnamon  01 
mace.  Pour  this  mixture  over  the  bread;  turn  the  slices  once, 
and  when  saturated  (but  not  soft  enough  to  break)  drop  into  boil- 
ing lard.  Fry  to  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides,  and  eat  with 
wine  sauce,  or  molasses  sauce. 


553.  Pancakes. — This  is  a  good  proportion  for  pancakes;  A 
quart  of  sifted  flour;  enough  milk  to  make  the  batter  the  con- 
sistence of  thick  cream  (pancake. batter  should  always  be  thinner 
than  that  for  fritters) ;  salt  to  taste;  three  eggs  beaten  separately. 
Put  a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  nutmeg  into  a  frying-pan,  and, 
when  hot,  pour  in  about  two  tablespoon fu Is  of  the  batter — the 
batter  spread  over  the  bottom  of  the  frying-pan;  the  quantity 
will  depend  upon  the  size  of  the  pan.  When  brown  on  one  side, 
turn  it;  and  when  both  sides  are  a  delicate  brown,  fold  twice  and 
place  in  a  covered  dish.  Send  them  to  the  table  as  soon  as  three 
or  four  are  prepared ;  follow  these  with  others  as  expeditiously 
as  possible.  Do  not  commence  baking  until  the  last  meat  course 
is  nearly  through,  as  they  are  not  good  unless  eaten  hot.  Use 
the  same  sauce  as  for  fritters. 

Pancakes  are  sometimes  served  without  being  folded,  and  a 
little  powdered  sugar  flavored  with  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  sifted 
Otct  each  pancake.  They  are  then  called  a  "  quire  of  paper  pan 
cakis." 


654.  Puffs,  No.  1. — These  are  made  of  pastry  rolled  to  the  size 
of  a  saucer.  Spread,  to  within  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  the  edge, 
on  one-half  the  paste,  any  kind  of  stewed  or  preserved  fruit;  turn 
over  the  fruit  the  other  half  of  the  paste.  Either  bake  or  fry 
These  are  good  cold,  either  with  or  without  cream  sauce. 


£7"Sfc  MRS.    HILL*8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

055.  Puffs,  No.  2. — One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  sih*>d  flout4 
four  eggs  beaten  separately,  and  then  stirred  together;  stir  alter 
nately  to  the?*i  the  flour  and  the  mi!k.  When  the  batter  is  well 
mixed,  strain  it.  Butter  cups  and  pour  into  them  the  batter  two 
thirds  full,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These  should  not  be  made 
1  niil  dinner  has  been  sent  to  the  table.  To  be  eaten  hot,  witfc 
vm«  sauce. 


655  J.  Sweet  Potato  Fritters. — Boil  four  large  Irish  potato*  s, 
or  as  much  sweet ;  when  cold,  grate  them  fine  ;  mix  together  two 
large  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  two  of  sherry  wiue, 
half  a  nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  ;  beat  eight  eggs — omit  the  whites  of  two  ;  mix 
the  eggs  with  the  cream  and  wine  ;  add  the  grated  potato  gradu- 
ally ;  beat  all  together  five  minutes ;  no  flour.  Fry  in  lard ; 
take  up  with  a  perforated  dipper ;  serve  as  fast  as  fried  ;  begin 
to  fry  while  they  are  eating  the  first  course.  They  are  delicioui 
with  golden  honey,  but  any  good  syrup  or  sauce  will  answer. 


655}.  Friars. — One  pint  of  flour  and  one  pint  of  milk  mixed 
together  ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hominy,  and  three  eggs,  a  tea- 
npoonful  of  salt.  The  whole  n  ust  be  well  mixed ;  dropped  with 
a  large  spoon  into  bciling  larl,  aid  fried  brcwn.  Each  spoonful 
iu*kes  a  fritter. 


CTJSTARD2> 

All  cuatards  made  of  milk  and  eggs  should  be  baked  ^n  i 
moderate  oven.  If  baked  too  rapidly  they  are  almost  sure  to  t* 
tough  and  watury.  Custards  are  best  baked  without  a  bottom 
crust,  lining  only  the  sides  and  edges  of  the  plate  with  the  puff 
paste.  Several  layers  of  the  paste  (rolled  very  thin)  placed 
•round  the  edge  and  extending  far  enough  to  allow  the  custard 
to  conceal  where  they  terminate,  give  an  elegant  finish.  Some 
persons  are  in  the  habit  of  notching  and  otherwise  ornamenting 
ihe  edges  of  the  paste.  This  is  highly  improper ;  the  puff  paste 
should  be  handled  as  little  as  possible,  so  as  to  preserve  the 
flaky  texture  of  the  cnurt.  Custards  are  best  eaten  cold,  but 
should  not  be  kept  tor  long.  If  served  warm  they  will  require 
an  under  crust. 


656.  Lemon  Custard,  No.  1. — Three  lemons,  six  eggs,  two 
cups  of  nice  sugar,  and  >wo  cups  of  cold  water.  Koll  the  lemons 
well ;  cut  them  in  very  thin  slices,  and  press  out  the  ju^ee.  Beat 
the  eggs  separately;  stir  the  water  and  lemon  juice  together 
Beat  the  sugar  and  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  together  add,  lastly . 
the  whites  well  beaten.     Baka  in  a  rich  paste. 


657.  Lemon  Custard,  No.  2  —The  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  half  * 
pound  of  butter,  three-quartern  of  *  pound  of  sugar,  and  two 
good  lemons.  Grate  all  the  yellow  in,  and  then  add  the  juice. 
Bake  in  a  rich  paste. 

658.  Orange  Custard,  No.  1. — The  yolks  of  eight  eggs ;  before 
breaking  them,  balance  their  weight  with  sugar;  balance  the 
weight  of  three  with  butter.  Cream  the  batter,  suijar,  and  yolkf 
together.     Grate  the  outside  peel  of  two  or&ruje*    *U?  tnU  witfc 

12* 


274 

their  juice.     Line  the  plate  with  puff  paste  as  in  the  preceding 
directions;  pour  in  the  custard,  and  bake. 


G59.  Orange  Custard,  No.  2. — Cream  half  a  pound  of  sugar 
with  half  a  pound  of  butter;  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two 
oranges,  and  one  wineglass  of  mixed  wine  and  brandy.  Beat  six 
eggs  light,  and  pour  on  gradually.  Bake  as  directed  in  the  pre- 
ceding. 

660.  Cocoanut  Custard,  No.  1. — The  whites  of  eight  eggi 
beaten  to  a  froth,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  loaf  sugar 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  the  white  part  of  a  large 
cocoanut  grated,  a  wineglass  of  wine.     Bake  in  puff  paste. 


661.  Cocoanut  Custard,  No.  2. — A  heaped  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  creamed ;  one  pound  of  crushed  sugar ;  nine  eggs,  beaten 
separately  ;  the  grated  meat  of  a  large  cocoanut.  Cream  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  togetli3r.  Mix  the  cocoanut  and  eggs,  and  stir  to 
the  butter  with  a  wineglass  of  rose  or  orange  water.  Lastly,  stir 
in  lightly  a  tumblerful  of  rich  cream.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  puff 
paste. 

6G2.  Almond  Custard. — Blanch  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet 
almonds ;  the  same  of  bitter  almonds  or  peach  kernels ;  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar,  and  two  ounces  of  batter. 
Beat  the  almonds  to  a  paste,  adding  rose  or  orange  watei  to  pre- 
rrnt  their  oiling.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  stir  in 
the  almond  paste  by  degrees  until  worked  in  smoothly;  add  tim 
whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth ;  beat  in  very  lightly  four  even 
tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  dipped  up  lightly.  Bake  half  ad 
boor  in  puff  paste.     Sift  loaf  sugar  over  when  cold. 


663.  Egg  Custard. — Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  egg* 
separately,  then  add  two  spoonfuls  of  the  whites  to  the  yolks ;  i 
teacup  and  a  half  of  sugar;  a  large  taMespoonful  of  butter  ;  Ha 


CDSTA.RD8. 


276 


▼or  to  taste  ;  bake  in  a  rich  crust.  Take  the  remainder  of  J  ha 
whites,  beat  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  spread  ovei  the 
custards,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  a  light  brown.  This  juan- 
tit?  makes  two  custards. 


664.  Transparent  Custard. — Beat  weJl  with  half  a  pound  of 
tsrushed  sugar  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs ;  set  upon  the  fire  the  pan 
containing  them,  and  add,  in  small  pieces,  half  a  pound  of  butter ; 
3tir  constantly  until  the  butter  melts ;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and 
stir  in  a  wineglass  of  thick  cream.  Flavor  to  taste,  and  bake  in 
puff  paste.  Citron  or  other  sweetmeats  placed  at  the  bottom, 
may  be  used  with  this  batter. 


665.  Mock-Lemon  Custard. — To  six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
Apple  (horse-apple  or  any  ripe,  pleasant  apple  will  answer — 
jweetenings  should  never  be  used  for  cooking  or  drying) ;  one 
grated  lemon  peel  and  pulp;  not  quite  half  a  common-sized  tea- 
cup of  butter ;  two  eggs,  well-beaten ;  sugar  to  taste ;  a  wineglass 
of  thick  cream,  stirred  in  last.     Bake  in  puff  paste. 


666.  A  Delicious  Apple  Custard. — Six  acid  apples  of  medium- 
size;  a  tumblerful  of  crushed  sugar;  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  very  little  heaped,  or  two  tumblerfuls  of  very  rich,  thick 
cream ;  six  eggs ;  one  lemon  peel  grated ;  half  the  juice.  Peel  the 
apples  and  grate  them.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together. 
Peat  the  eggs  separately,  and  mix  as  for  cake.  Bake  in  puff 
paste.     This  quantity  will  make  two  custards. 


667.  Apple  Custard. — Take  half  a  dozen  tart  apples;  peel  and 
sore  them  ;  cook  *,hem  in  a  little  water  until  soft.  Mash  them 
irery  smoothly ;  swreeten  and  spice  to  taste ;  beat  ir  five  or  sU 
eggs.  Bake  in  puff  paste.  One  gill  of  cream  improves  this.  In 
using  cream  for  custards  or  puddings,  add  it  last,  as  cucn  stir« 
ring  converts  it  into  butter. 


276  MRS.    HILLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

668.  Mush  Custard  (excellent). — One  pound  of  smooth  muak 
(sift  the  finer  part  of  the  corn  meal) ;  rtir  to  it  a  quarter  c  f  I 
pound  of  butter.  Beat  separately  six  eggs ;  with  the  yolks  8 
pound  of  crushed  sugar.  Mix  all  as  for  a  cake.  Grate  the  riLd 
■)f  one  lemon;  add  this,  and  the  juice  to  the  mush.  Bake  in  i 
ioh  paste. 

669.  Dried  Apple  Custard. — One  pint  of  dried  apples,  mashed 
and  strained ;  two  eggs  beaten  with  the  apples ;  sweeten  and 
spice  to  taste.  Add  half  a  tumblerful  of  cream  or  rich  nnlk. 
Bake  in  a  paste,  and  when  done,  cover  with  a  meringue,  accord 
ing  to  directions  given  under  the  head  of  Tarts. 


670.  Breckenridge  Custard. — Six  eggs  beaten  separately 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sweet  potatoes  (yams  are  best) 
boiled  and  strained  through  a  colander;  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  creamed  soft  with  same  of  powdered  sugar. 
Mix  all  together,  as  for  cake ;  spice  with  nutmeg ;  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.     Bake  in  a  rich  crust. 


671.  Potato  Custard. — One  teacup  of  boiled  or  baked  sweet 
potatoes,  mashed  and  strained ;  one  teacup  of  butter ;  the  same  of 
sugar ;  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Cream  the  potato  and  butter  to- 
gether ;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together ;  mix  them ;  flavor  aa 
may  suit  the  taste.     Bake  in  a  rich  crust. 


672.  Irish  Potato  Custard. — Mash  very  smoothly  a  pound  of 
Irish  potatoes ;  cream  with  it  half  a  pound  of  butter.  Beat  three 
eggs  vith  half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Mix  all  well ;  flavor  with  wine 
and  Lutmeg.  Bake  in  puff  paste.  Sprinkle  loaf  sugar  over  when 
3oue.     Excellent,  either  hot  or  cold. 


673.  Pumpkin  Custard. — Pass  a  pmt  cf  boiled  puir.rkii! 
through  a  colander,  and  add  to  it  a  pint  of  cream.  Beat  ei^lrt 
eggs,  and  add  them  gradually  \o  the  other  ingredients,  stiirifig 


CUSTARDS  277 

oonstantly.  Then  stir  in  a  wineglass  of  rose-water,  a  teaspoon 
ful  of  powdered  cinnamon,  and  a  grated  lutmeg.  Lay  a  [  aste  in 
a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


674.  Bice  Custard, — Pick  and  wash  well  one  tumblerful  of  rice  j 
ooil  it  dry  in  a  pint  of  milk  or  water.  Take  it  up;  mash  well, 
and  strain  through  a  colander;  add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  half 
a  tumblerful  of  melted  butter.  Beat  three  eggs  well;  add  to  the 
rice  when  it  is  cool;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in  puff 
paste. 

This  may  be  baked  without  a  paste,  and  raisins  or  currants 
added,  if  liked.  If  used,  stir  them  in  when  the  custard  is  at  least 
half  done;  if  added  earlier,  they  will  settle  at  the  bottom. 
Should  be  eaten  with  cream  sauce.     Meringue  this. 

G7f>.  Cheese- Cake  Custard. — Yolks  of  ten  eggs,  whites  of  two, 
one  half  pound  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  beat  together; 
then  beat  in  the  eggs ;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake  in  crust ;  when 
done,  spread  over  an  acid  jelly  ;  then  meringue  it. 


676.  Bartow  Custard. — One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  three  tabi*. 
spoonfuls  of  rice  flour,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  quarter  of  a  poind 
of  butter,  six  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
orange-water,  half  a  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  the  flour  with  a  little 
of  the  milk  to  the  consistence  of  cream  ;  set  the  remainder  of  Uw 
milk  in  a  tin  pan  upon  the  stove;  as  it  boils,  stir  in  the  paste. 
Let  it  simmer  two  or  three  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  remove 
t  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  butter  and  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  and 
ugar  well  together  until  they  are  perfectly  light,  as  for  cak<». 
When  the  milk  is  cool,  pour  it  slowly  to  the  eggs,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  is  all  well  mixed;  add  ths  flavorii  g.  Liiie  th« 
plates  with  puff  paste,  and  bake  in  rather  a  quick  o^en. 


677.  Egg  Custard. — One  qrart  of  milk,  one  tablespoc/iful  of 
flour,  one  ounce  of  butter,  six  ounces  of  suga-,  si*  pn^s.     Put  th* 


278  Mrs.  hill's  new  ooo k  book. 

milk  over  the  fire  until  it  boils.  Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  stir  the  paste  to  the  boiling  milk.  Let  it  remain  or 
the  flour  two  or  three  minutes ;  then  remove  it,  and  stir  in  the 
butter.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  the  sugar  with  the  yolks; 
then  stir  the  yolks  and  whites  together,  and  pour  the  milk  t<r 
them  when  it  is  nearly  cold.  Strain  the  mixture ;  use  any  flavor 
ing  liked.  Line  pie-plates  with  pufF paste ;  pour  in  the  custaid, 
and  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top,  and  bake  until  the  custard  is  set. 

It  is  not  absolutely  necessary  that  the  eggs  should  be  beaten 
separately ;  but  it  is  necessary  that  they  should  be  thoroughly 
beaten. 

This  custard  is  delicious  poured  in  a  buttered  dish  and  baked 
without  a  crust.  In  this  case,  use  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  serve 
hot  with  a  rich,  solid  butter  sauce. 


678.  A  Simple  Egg  Custard. — Four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  crushed  sugar,  an  even  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  flour, 
mixed  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Put  a  pint  of  milk  in  a 
stew-pan,  and  set  on  the  fire.  As  it  boils,  stir  in  the  paste,  and 
simmer  fo>  two  or  three  minutes ;  remove  it,  and  add  the  butter. 
Beat  thr  eggs  and  sugar  together,  and  pour  the  milk  to  them 
when  it  is  cool.     Bake  in  a  paste. 


679.  Jolly  Custard. — One  cup  of  fruit  jelly ;  one  cup  nearly 
full  of  crushed  sugar;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  three  eggs, 
beaten  separately.     Flavor  with  lemon,  and  bake  in  puflf  paste. 


680  and  681.  Charlotte  Russe  Custard. — The  yolks  of  four 
•ggs.  Pour  over  them  one  pint  and  a  half  of  hot  milk,  sweeten 
and  flavor  to  taste.  Pu*  this  in  a  stew-pan  ;  when  it  boils  add  a 
paste  made  with  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  wet  up 
with  cold  milk.  Stir  until  the  milk  thickens.  Lay  slices  of 
uponge-cake  in  a  pudding  dish,  pour  ov?r  the  custanlwhen  cool' 
co  vcr  with  a  meringue ;  bake  a  light  brown.  Eat  with  cream 
sauce. 


SAUCES. 

'A  jre*  deal  of  the  elegtoce  of  cookery  depends  upon  the  MCcmpanliMtU  ft 
t*th  dlsn  lelug  appropriate  &u,i  well  adapted  to  It." 

All  buttei  sauces  should  be  made  of  good,  fresh  butter 
Nothing  good  can  be  made  of  rancid  butter;  the  taste  cannot  be 
disguised.  To  melt  or  draw  it  well,  constant  attention  during  the 
process  is  necessary.  Should  it  oil,  add  to  it  immediately  a 
tablesponful  of  cold  water,  and  pour  it  into  an  earthen  bowl,  stir- 
ring well.  For  the  taste  of  burnt  butter  there  is  no  remedy  ;  it 
is  unfit  for  use;  therefore  be  particular  in  placing  it  upon  the  fire 
never  to  set  it  upon  a  blaze  or  very  hot  coals.  It  is  a  good  and 
safe  plan  to  put  the  vessel  in  which  the  butter  is  to  be  melted  into 
another  containing  boiling  water.  A  double  kettle  or  a  hot  water 
bath  answers  this  purpose  well.  A  stew-pan  lined  with  porcelain 
is  also  a  suitable  utensil  for  the  boiling  of  sauces,  and  one  should 
be  kept  for  this  purpose  alone.  In  many  kitchens  there  is  not  a 
single  vessel  suitable  for  preparing  these  delicate,  and,  as  they 
shoidd  be  considered,  indispensable  accompaniments  to  meats, 
puddings,  etc. 

To  melt  butter  properly :  Put  into  a  stew-pan  two  ounces  of 
butter,  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fiVur  or  corn  starch,  arrowroot,  or 
potato  starch,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  When  the  butter 
begins  to  melt,  stir  all  well  together ;  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
lfc>t  water;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  stir  all  well  together;  let  it 
bcil  up,  When  of  the  consistence  of  creai.i,  pour  it  out,  and 
flavor  cr  season  in  any  way  desired.  Butter  mixes  better  with 
milk  tnan  with  water;  but  ir  transparent  sauces  water  alone 
must  be  used,  as  milk  will  rendei  it  cloudy. 


682.   Transparent  Sauce. — A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  larg« 


280  MRS 

egg,  a  common-sized  saucer  of  sugar,  a  tumbler  nearly  full  of 
wa;er.  Put  them  all  in  a  stew-pan  together,  and  stir  well.  Sim 
mer  gently  five  or  six  minutes.  Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  in  t 
bowl;  pour  the  sauce  very  slowly  upon  it,  stirring  hard.  When 
ill  is  in,  return  the  mixture  to  the  stew-pan;  stir  constantly  until 
t  is  thoroughly  hot;  pour  it  into  the  tureen.  Flavor  with 
lemon,  orange,  or  vanilla,  and  grate  nutmeg  over. 


(583.  Sponge  Cake  Pudding  Sauce. — Two  cups  of  butter 
creamed  with  a  cup  of  sugar;  beat  together,  in  a  deep  bowl  or 
dish,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Put  the  butter  in  a  well-lined  stew- 
pan  ;  set  this  in  boiling  water.  Stir  the  butter  constantly  until 
it  has  melted  ;  pour  it  slowly  to  the  eggs,  stirring  hard.  Return 
it  to  the  stew-pan ;  pour  in  a  teacup  of  boiling  water.  Let  it 
simmer  three  or  four  minutes,  shaking  the  pan  or  stirring  it  fre- 
quently. Flavor  with  any  of  the  extracts,  and  grate  over 
nutmeg. 

684.  Mrs.  BSs  Sponge  Cake  Sauce  Receipt. — Two  tablespoon 
fuls  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  six  of  cold  water.  Boil  a  few  minutes , 
stir  in  two  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  butter.  As  soon  as  the  butter 
melts,  stir  well,  and  season  with  wine  and  nutmeg. 


685.  Sauce  for  Boiled  Pudding. — Cream  together  a  tumbler 
of  good  fresh  butter,  the  same  of  powdered  sugar;  stir  to  them 
half  a  tumblerful  of  hot  water;  mix  well.  Place  the  stew-pan 
containing  this  mixture  upon  the  stove  just  long  enough  to  heat 
horoughly,  adding  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  or  orange,  or  flavor 
with  extract  of  lemon  Pdt  upon  the  bottom  of  the  sauce  tuieen 
a  tablespoonful  of  currant  or  apple  jelly  ;  pour  the  sauce  over  it, 
stirring  and  mixing  well — or  the  jelly  may  be  omitted  and  wini 
used  instead. 


B86.  Arrowroot   Sauce. — Wet  up  half  a  teacup  of  arrow  rod 


siuces.  851 

with  a  t«*cup  of  cream,  milk,  or  water  as  irefened,  t*u  larg« 
Ublespooifuls  of  sugar,  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Boil  fcur  or  fi\« 
minutes;  serve  hot.  Should  it  become  toe  thick,  thin  with 
fiream.  Flavor  with  rose  or  orange  water,  :>r  wine,  if  preferred, 
a^ing  pal  ^  Sherry ;  more  sugar  if  liked. 


G87.  Sour  Cream  Sauce. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  a  hall 
cups  of  sour  cream.  Beat  well  together,  and  grate  over  nutmeg 
Nico  for  fritters  or  pancakes. 


688.  A  Good  Sauce. — One  tumbler  of  wine  and  one  of  sugar; 
stir  together,  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point ;  stir  slowly  to  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Put  on  the  fire  long  enough  to 
take  off  the  raw  taste  of  the  egg.  Grate  in  lemon;  add  a  table- 
spoonful  <>f  the  juice,  or  orange  peel  or  nutmeg.  Serve  hot,  in  a 
covered  tureen. 


689.  Cream  Sauce. — Stir  together  a  tumblerful  of  rich,  thick 
cream  and  a  tumbler  lightly  full  of  fine  white  sugar ;  grate  over 
t  nutmeg.     Serve  cold,  with  fruit  tarts. 


690.  Mock  Cream  Sauce. — To  two  tumblers  of  sweet  milk,  stir 
Li  loaf  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  it  well ;  put  it  on  the  fire.  Beat 
together  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  the  yolk  of  one.  When  the 
milk  becomes  hot,  pour  it  slowly  to  the  eggs,  stirring  constantly. 
Beturn  it  to  the  stew-pan;  scald  it,  shaking  the  stew-pan  fre. 
queutly.     Serve  in  a  sauce-boat.     Flavor  in  any  way  liked. 

(he  egg  will  be  sufficient  if  you  use  a  la^ge  tablespoonful  of 
potato  or  corn  starch,  arrowroot,  or  flour.  Wet  this  up  with  • 
little  of  the  milk,  cold,  and  pour  into  the  sauce  when  it  boilf  ujpy 
wiping  w*ll. 


282  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

691.  Syllabub  Sauce. — Cream  seasoned  as  for  syllabub  makes 
fine  sauce  for  delicate  custards,  fritters,  and  pancakes. 


692.  Sauce  of  any  kind  of  Jam. — Put  into  a  small  stew-pan 
half  a  tumbler  of  Sherry  wine,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  at 
even  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar.  Mix  in  well  two  table 
spoonfuls  of  jam.  Warm  gently  ;  use  with  delicate  custards  o? 
puddings. 


Butter  Sauce. — Half  a  tumbler  of  butter,  a  tumbler  of 
sugar ;  mix  well,  and  stir  to  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  pour  over  a 
tumbler  of  boiling  wine ;  boil  one  minute,  stirring  well.  Serve 
with  plain  boiled  pudding. 


694.  Hard  Sauce. — Cream,  until  white  and  spongy,  one  tea- 
cup of  butter,  two  of  loaf  sugar,  pulverized.  This  sauce  requires 
to  be  creamed  well.  Stir  in  as  much  wine  as  it  will  take,  or  season 
with  any  of  the  extracts.  Place  it,  lightly  heaped,  on  a  glass  :>r 
silver  plate.  It  makes  an  elegant  sauce  for  bread  puddings,  or 
for  any  kind  of  boiled  pudding.  This  sauce  may  be  varied  by 
stirring  to  it  a  large  tablespoonful  of  very  stiff  apple  or  quince 
jelly,  or  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  an  orange  or  lemon. 


695.  Egg  Drawn  Butter. — Beat  one  egg  light;  add  to  it  a 

tumbler  of  cold  water.     Set  it  on  the  stove  in  a  stew-pan ;  bcil 

slowly  until  it  thickens ;  stir  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  butter.  Ta 
this  may  be  added  wine  and  sugar.     Serve  with  puddings. 


696.  Sauce  for  Tarts. — Make  a  thick  boiled  custard ;  f  >r  a  pint, 
use  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  tablespocnful  of  corn  starch ;  wet  with 
cold  milk,  and  add  to  the  boiling  pint  of  milk.  Pour  into  an 
open  stand  when  cool.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Make  aL 
icing  of  two  of  the  whites  beaten  stiff  spread  over  the  custard 
and  scorch  with  a  hot  salamander  or  shovel. 


CAKES. 

Tut  process  of  the  compounding  and  oaking  of  cakes  be.rg  i 
UHicate  operation,  it  should  not  be  left  to  careless  h&iids,  lut 
•hould  be  carried  on  under  the  close  supervision  of  the  house- 
wife. Says  Mrs.  Hannah  More:  "Those  women  who  are  so 
puffed  up  with  conceit  of  talents  or  position  as  to  neglect  the 
plain  duties  of  life,  will  not  often  be  found  women  of  the  best 
abilities.  It  is  best  to  begin  cake-making  as  early  after  break- 
fast as  is  convenient.  Have  everything  in  readiness.  When 
there  is  fruit  to  be  used,  prepare  it  the  previous  day.  By  all 
means  be  supplied  with  well-balanced  scales,  as  in  cake-making 
nothing  should  be  done  by  guess-work,  and  measuring  is  much 
less  exact  than  weighing.  Be  sure  that  all  your  materials  are 
good.  Never  use  rancid  butter.  Sift  and  sun  the  flour  well.  Jn 
summer,  place  the  eggs  in  cold  water  a  little  while  before  using — 
the  whites  froth  better.  When  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  are  used 
in  batters,  the  soda  should  be  carefully  sifted  with  the  flour,  as 
the  smallest  lump  will  make  a  yellow  place  in  the  cake.  Dis- 
solve the  cream  of  tartar  in  a  little  water.  Sal  volatile  is  often 
used  in  the  place  of  soda.  A  bit  the  size  of  a  nutmeg  will  be 
surhYient  for  a  pound  of  cake.  Yeast  powders  are  also  very  good 
For  beating  the  whites  of  the  eggs  an  egg-beater  of  wire  is  best. 
When  one  cannot  be  procured,  a  large  silver  fork  is  very  good. 
A  good  substitute  for  an  egg-beater  is  a  bun:h  of  white  oak  split* 
tied  near  one  end.  The  whites  should  be  whipped  to  a  verj 
solid  froth.  When  they  will  adhere  to  the  dish  or  a  knife-blade, 
inverted,  they  are  well  beaten.  Never  commence  beating  them 
until  the  yolks  and  sugar  are  finished  beating,  as,  if  beaten  too 
soon,  they  will  fall.  Always  use  a  wooden  paddle  for  beating 
cake;  the  warmth  of  the  hand  renders  the  batt  ir  oily.  Was* 
the  butter  in  cold  water,  cr*?*in  it,  pouring  off  ever/    parliele  of 


284 

water.  In  cold  weather,  wash  in  tepid  water,  or  place  near  th« 
fire,  where  it  will  soften  enough  to  cream.  For  mixing  th# 
batter,  an  earthen  bowl  is  best. 

To  mix  cake:  After  creaming  the  butter,  add  the  flour  by 
degrees,  creaming  together  until  half  the  flour  is  used.  Beat  tb 
yolks  and  sugar,  adding  the  sugar  gradually  until  the  mixtur-  U 
white  and  spongy.  The  principal  beating  of  the  cake  shouM  m 
put  upon  the  yolks  and  sugar.  After  they  are  beaten  sufficiently 
add  them  to  the  butter  alternately  with  the  remainder  of  the 
flour.  In  all  cakes  where  butter  is  used,  the  whites  must  be  added 
last;  as  soon  as  they  are  well  incorporated  with  the  batter,  put 
the  cake  to  bake.  In  sponge  cake,  at  least  a  third  of  the  flour 
must  be  added  after  the  whites,  or  the  cake  will  fall.  Fruit 
should  be  well  floured  before  adding  to  the  batter.  Butter  the 
pans  after  covering  the  bottom  with  foolscap  paper,  rubbing  the 
butter  on  with  a  cloth,  that  there  may  be  no  lumps.  The  excel- 
lence of  cake  depends  quite  as  much  upon  the  baking  as  upon  the 
proper  mixing  of  the  ingredients.  Good  judgment  and  close 
attention  are  absolutely  essential,  but  experience  alone  can  render 
one  an  expert  cake  baker.  If  an  oven  is  used,  let  the  bottom  be 
warm  before  placing  the  cake  in  it.  Put  the  lid  on  cold,  and 
cover  evenly  with  hot  embers.  Keep  the  oven  at  a  moderate 
heat  until  the  cake  is  well  risen ;  then  increase  the  heat,  and  bake 
as  quickly  as  possible  without  burning.  If  baked  too  slowly,  the 
butter  becomes  oily,  and  settles  in  streaks  through  the  cake. 
Never  attempt  baking  cake  in  a  stove  while  the  cooking  of  0 
meal  is  in  progress,  as,  under  those  circumstances,  it  is  impossibU 
to  regulate  the  heat  properly.  To  prevent  burning,  it  h  well  to 
elevate  the  cake  a  little  from  the  bottom  of  a  stove  or  Wick  oven 
ly  placing  ihe  pan  upon  muffin-rings,  or  a  trivet;  or,  in  an  *t«>fc 
oven,  throw  a  little  ashes  or  sawdist  into  the  bottom  befort 
putting  in  the  pan. 

To  ascei  tain  the  degree  of  heat  of  a  stove  or  brick  oven,  put 
iii  a  small  bit  of  dough ;  if  it  gradually  assumes  a  light  brown 
oolor  it  indicates  a  condition  proper  for   the    reception  of  th*> 


OARti.  282 

sake.  Never  suffer  the  he»t  to  diminish  while  the  take  is  baking, 
m  it  will  cause  it  to  fall.  It  is,  of  course,  sometimes  necessary 
to  raise  the  oven-lid  or  open  the  stove  to  look  at  the  cake  ;  but 
uever  suffer  it  to  remain  open  longer  than  is  absolutely  neces- 
lary,  as  contact  with  the  air  will  cause  it  to  fall.  When  the  cake 
if  d^ne,  it  will  shrink  from  the  sides  of  the  pan.  To  ascertain  th 
/act  more  satisfactorily,  pierce  with  a  straw  near  the  centre ;  if 
no  batter  adheres  to  the  straw,  the  cake  is  done.  Always  turn 
cakes  upon  a  soft  tablecloth  to  cool,  turning  them  twice  or  three 
times,  or  oftener,  that  they  may  not  become  heavy  from  the 
absorption  of  the  steam  which  they  emit.  Fruit  cake  must  re- 
main in  the  pan  to  cool,  as  in  removing  it,  it  would  be  almost 
certain  to  break  from  its  own  weight. 

To  prepare  »'ake  for  icing:  Trim  off  carefully  all  the  burnt  or 
uneven  places;  brush  off  the  crumbs,  and  dust  evenly  with  flour. 

Sponge  cake  requires  a  quicker  oven  than  any  other.  Tea 
cakes  require  quick  baking.  Pound  cake,  a  more  moderate  heat. 
Fruit  cake,  more  moderate  still.  Molasses  cake  is  more  easily 
scorched  than  any  other.  In  baking  large  cakes,  a  pan  with 
straight  sides  is  best — a  tube  in  the  centre. 


697.  Fruit  Cake,  No.  1. — Sugar,  one  and  a  half  pounds ;  butter, 
the  same ;  flour,  the  same ;  eighteen  eggs ;  of  raisins  and  currants 
mixed,  three  pounds;  citron,  half  a  pound;  one  tumbler  of 
brandy,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  the  same  of  mace,  the  same 
of  cloves,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Add  one  pound  of  pruuw* 
and  one  of  dried  figs. 


■Of 


6DS.  Mich  Fruit  Cake. — Six  eggs  beat  separately,  seven  cups 
of  flcui,  three  and  a  ialf  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  buttermilk, 
One  and  a  half  cups  of  butter,  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  soda ; 
light  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  of  mace,  one  of  coriander  seed; 
pulverized,  two  of  cinnamon  ;  one  pound  eac"h  of  currants,  raisins, 
dried  figs,  dates,  prunes,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  half-tumbler  cl 
brandy.     This  receipt  may  be  doubled. 


280  MjiQ    hill's  new  cook  book. 

699.  Black  Cake. — One  pound  of  plah.  pound  cako  batter,  two 
pounds  of  raisins,  stoned ;  two  pounds  of  currants,  j  ickcd, 
washed  and  dried  before  using;  half  a  pound  of  citron,  cut  in 
small  pieces ;  season  highly  with  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  a  littls 
clones,  and  allspice.  After  the  batter  is  made,  and  the  spiom 
ft  1  Jed,  and  before  putting  in  the  fruit,  stir  a  teaspoonful  of  sodft 
into  a  saucer  of  molasses ;  stir  this  into  the  cake.  Stir  in  th« 
fruit  (previously  well  floured)  quickly,  and  set  to  baking  as  soon 
as  possible ;  bake  slowly.  If  the  fruit  is  burned  at  the  bottom, 
it  imparts  a  bad  taste  to  the  cake. 


700.  White  Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of 
flour,  three-fourths  pound  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  yeast 
powder  ;  the  whites  of  one  dozen  eggs,  one  tes  cup  of  sweet 
milk  ;  two  pounds  of  citron,  two  pounds  of  almonds,  two  pounds 
of  cocoanut. 


701.  To  mix  Wliite  Cake. — Beat  half  of  the  whites,  add  the 
sugar ;  sift  the  yeast  powder  and  the  flour  well  together  two  oi 
three  times,  cream  the  butter  well,  mix  in  the  flour.  Add  the 
other  whites  last,  after  the  cake  is  well  beaten. 


702.  Currant  Cake. — One  pound  each  of  butter,  fl.'.ur,  and 
sugar ;  six  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one 
nutmeg,  a  piece  of  sal  volatile  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  dissolved  in 
warm  water ;  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  pounds  of  dried  cur- 
rants.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


703.  Pound  Cake,  No.  1. — One  pound  of  butter,  one  of  sugar, 
one  of  flour,  twelve  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cream 
ff  tartar.  The  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  must  be  dissolved 
leparately  ;  the  latter  in  about  half  a  teacup  of  water,  the  former 
in  \  little  less.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together ;  the  flour  and 
butter  together;  the  whites  beat  separately  to  a  stift  froth 
When  all  are  well  beaten,  mix  the  eggs  into  the  butter  and  floui 
thoroughly  ;  add  the  seasoning  to  your  taste  ;  and,  lastly,  nix  \s 
■oda  and  cream  of  tartar.     Bake  rather  quickly. 


OAKCB.  281 

704.  Mary  Owen  Cakn. — Two  teacups  of  white  pulverized 
iugar,  one  of  butter,  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  ore  quart  of 
sifted  flour,  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk — water  will  answer ;  tea- 
■poci/ul  of  yeast  pewder,  flavor  to  taste.  This  is  a  good  che.ar 
cake.  Baked  in  plates  it  answers  well  for  jelly,  tocoanut,  corn- 
torch  ruarmalade,  or  chocolate  cake. 


705.  Plain  Pound  Cake. — Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  but- 
Iij-  ;  one  pound  of  sifted  flour ;  one  pound  of  sugar  (pulverized, 
loaf,  or  crushed)  ;  ten  eggs.  Beat  the  sugar  with  the  yolks  until 
very  white ;  cream  the  butter ;  add  to  it  the  flour  alternately 
with  the  egg  and  sugar.  Add  the  whites  lastly,  and  do  not  beai 
the  batter  after  they  are  mixed  with  it ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  and  a  wineglass  of  good  brandy. 


706.  General  Gordon  Cake. —  Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  one  pound  of  sugar ;  cream  them  well  together ;  break  in 
one  egg  at  a  time  until  you  have  used  ten ;  beat  well,  and  add  a 
paper  of  corn  starch ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder.  Flavor 
with  vanilla.     Bake  quickly. 


707.  Mountain  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  half  cup 
of  butter,  the  same  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  two 
teaspoonful s  of  yeast  powder. 

708.  Cocoanut  Cake. — A  white  cake  is  best  for  this.  Cut 
the  cake  in  four  pieces,  but  without  injuring  the  shape,  or  bake 
the  cake  in  plates,  like  jelly  cake,  put  the  frosting  between,  pile 
one  over  the  other.  Make  the  frosting  by  any  good  receipt ;  re- 
serve part  of  the  icing  for  the  outside,  and  in  the  remainder  stir 
grated  cocoanut  to  make  it  as  thick  and  rich  as  desired.  The 
Cocoanut  may  be  scalded  in  milk,  whi«h  should  be  drained 
from  it  before  being  stirred  to  the  icing  ;  this  is  put  between  the 
■lices  of  cake.  A  rough  icing  may  be  made  by  adding  grated 
cocoanut  to  all  the  icing  and  using  it  for  the  outside  \&  well  M 
between  the  slices. 


288  Mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

700.  Almond  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  three-quartern  of  % 
pound  of  butter,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  ten  «gjra. 
Mix  as  pound  cake ;  then  add  half  a  pound  of  almonds,  beaten 
fine  (blanched),  one  tablespoonful  of  rose-water. 


710.  Almond  Sponge  Cake. — Beat  fine,  with  a  wineglas*  of 
rose-water,  two  ounces  of  almonds,  half  sweet  and  half  bitter ;  one 
pound  of  sugar,  ten  eggs,  beaten  separately ;  add,  lastly,  naif  a 
pound  of  flour. 

711.  Sponge  Cake,  No.  1. — One  pound  of  sugar,  seven  eggs, 
half  a  pound  of  flour.  Pour  upon  the  sugar  half  a  tumblerful  of 
water  ;  put  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  set  on  the  stove  until  the  sugar  is 
well  dissolved  and  the  syrup  begins  to  bubble  on  the  top;  then 
set  aside.  While  it  is  cooling,  beat  the  yolks  well,  and  when  the 
syrup  is  tepid  add  them  to  it,  beating  very  thoroughly.  Then 
add  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  the  flour  last,  stirring 
it  in  very  lightly.  Flavor  with  anything  you  like.  Bake  in  a 
^aick  oven. 

712.  Sponge  Cake,  No.  2. — One  tumbler  of  flour,  one  of 
lugar,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder,  flavor. 


713.  Georgia  Sponge  Cake. — Twelve  eggs,  the  weight  of  these 
in  sugar,  the  weight  of  six  in  flour.  Separate  the  eggs,  leaving  out 
*Le  yolks  of  two.  Beat  the  yolks  well ;  then  add  the  sugar  by 
f  egr  ^es  Beat  very  thoroughly ;  then  add  the  whites,  beaten  to 
*  stiff*  froth,  and,  lastly,  the  flour,  stirring  it  in  as  lightly  and 
'»ui«'.kly  as  possible.  Flavor  with  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy  and 
w\}  extract  preferred.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


7 J  4.  Croton  Sponge  Cake. — Six  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  butter 


CAKES.  289 

one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  a  tcaspoonful  of  soda, 
two  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Rub  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  beat  the  eggs  separately  ;  mix  the  cream 
of  tartar  with  the  flour;  dissolve  the  soda  with  the  milk,  which 
in  us*,  be  added  last  Almonds  blanched  and  beaten  may  U» 
added  to  this 


715.  Chocolate  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  half  a  ^p 
of  butter,  the  same  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  tea 
ipoonfuls  of  yeast  powder ;  bake  this  in  a  pan  rather  shallow. 
When  cold,  split  the  cake  in  half  carefully  without  injuring  tie 
Bb-pe.  Make  a  frosting  or  custard  and  place  between  the  cakoq ; 
ice  the  top  and  sides  of  the  cake. 


710.  Jelly  Cake,  No.  1. — Beat  three  eggs  thoroughly  ;  add  ;ma 
cup  of  sugar  and  one  of  flour.  Stir  these  well  together,  and  add 
one  tcaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  half  a  tcaspoonful  of  soJa, 
the  latter  to  be  dissolved  in  a  very  little  water.  Bake  in  two  pie- 
tins,  as  evenly  and  quickly  as  possible,  taking  much  care  that  it 
does  not  bake  too  hard  around  the  edges.  A  sheet  of  writing 
paper  laid  over  the  top  will  prevent  it  from  burning  or  scorching 
too  much.  Have  ready  a  clean  towel  or  cloth,  and  when  the 
cake  is  done  slip  it  out,  bottom  side  upon  the  cloth  ;  then  spread 
the  uppermost  side  quickly  with  currant  or  other  tart  jelly,  and, 
commencing  at  the  end,  roll  it  up  so  as  to  form  a  long,  compact 
roil.     To  use,  slices  are  cut  from  the  end  of  the  roll. 


717.  Frosting. — The  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stif! 
froth  ;  cup  and  a  half  of  white  sugar  ;  six  tablespoon fuls  of  sweet, 
grated  chocolate  ;  beat  until  thick  ;  flavor  with  vanilla. 


71 7J.  Chocolate  Custard. — One  cup  of  sweet  chocolate,  same 
of  white  sugar  and  sweet  milk,  white  of  one  egg  beaten  ;  mix 
and  boil  until  thick  like  custard  ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Whon 
eoH,  spread  between  the  cake. 

n 


tl)0  MRS.    HILL  8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

718  Silver  or  Bride  3  Cake. — The  whites  of  sixteen  eggs  oeatei 
to  a  fi3th;  stir  to  them  one  pound  of  pulverized  loaf  sugar 
Cream  together  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  one  light 
pound  of  sifted  flour;  add  all  together.  Use  no  spices.  Flavor 
with  lemon,  vanilla,  or  rose.  Almonds  blanched  and  pounded  art 
an  improvement.  Use  rose-water  with  the  almonds  to  prefect 
them  from  oiling. 

719.  Oolden  Cake. — Made  by  the  same  receipt  jsing  the 
yolks  instead  of  the  whites;  add  a  grated  lemon. 

A  very  beautiful  jelly  cake  can  be  made  by  reserving  a  little 
of  the  batter  from  each  of  the  foregoing,  and  baking  thin,  as  in 
directions  for  jelly  cake,  placing  the  silver  and  golden  cakes,  alter 
nately,  with  jelly  between. 


720.  Citron  Cake. — One-third  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one-third  of 
a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  four  eggs,  half  a  wine- 
glass of  brandy,  half  a  pound  of  citron. 


721.  Spice  Cake. — Three  cups  of  butter,  six  cups  of  sugar 
three  cups  sour  milk,  twelve  (light)  of  flour,  twelve  eggs,  three 
small  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  sifted  in  the  flour  ;  one  small  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cloves,  three  of  cinnamon,  five  of  ground  orange  peel,  three 
of  nutmeg,  one  of  allspice. 


722.  White  Cup  Cake. — Four  teacups  of  sifted  flour,  two  of 
loaf  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sour  cream  or  rich  milk,  a  small 
taaepoonful  of  soda,  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten.  Flavor 
with  lex  ion. 


723.  Cup  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of 
flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  cne  cup  of  sour  milk. 
Flavor  as  you  please.  This  cake  makes  an  excellent  pudding 
t»«cen  with  wine  sauce. 


724.   Cocoanut  Tea  Cake. — Beat  together  one  pound  of  sugar 


CA1I8.  29! 

half  a  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  tablcspconful  of  ycatt  powder,  and 
floor  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Grate  two  cocoanuts ;  stir  them  V 
the  batter ;  mix  thoroughly  ;  roll  out,  and  cut  into  cakes,  and  bakt 
q  a  moderate  oven. 


725.  Superior  Tea  Cake. — Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  of  dry 
ugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  five  eggs,  beaten  separately ;  a  des 

*ert-spoonful  of  hartshorn  or  sal- volatile,  rolled  fine,  dissolved  in  • 
little  warm  water.  Flavor  with  mace  or  cinnamon.  Roll  very 
thin,  and  bake  quick. 

726.  Snow  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of 
sifted  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  five  eggs,  teaspoou- 
ful  of  yeast  powder.  Bake  in  tin  plates.  Put  layers  of  cocoa- 
nut  frosting  between  ;   ice  it. 

727.  Another  White  Cake. — Beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  to 
a  solid  froth,  add  two  cups  of  pulverized  sugar.  Cream  together 
one  cup  of  butter,  three  of  sifted  flour;  add  this  to  the  whites,  a 
cup  three  parts  full  of  sifted  common  starch,  a  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder;  flavor  to  taste. 


728.  Loaf  Cake. — Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  of  butter,  one  of 
sugar,  one  of  raisins,  one  tumbler  of  yeast,  two  tumblers  of"  sweet 
milk,  three  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Mix  all 
the  ingredients  well  together,  and  set  it  to  rise.  After  it  has 
risen,  work  in  the  raisins  (previously  seeded  and  cut.)  When  it 
has  risen  the  second  time,  set  it  to  baking,  as  you  would  light 
bread.  A  wineglass  of  brandy  improves  it.  The  raisins  may 
be  omitted,  or  any  other  fruit  substituted. 


729.  Forrest  Cake. — After  the  dough  for  light  bread 
lias  risen  the  first  time,  take  from  it  about  three  teacupfuls.  Beat 
three  eggs  thoroughly  and  add  to  them  three  cups  of  sugar,  beat 
lug  well.  Cream  one  cup  of  butter  and  add  to  them  the  sugar 
and  eggs,  creaming  all  well  together.  Add  the  dough,  and  work 
well  until  you  have  made  a  smooth  batter.  Season  with  one  nut- 
tfieii,  u  tcasporuful  of   coriander  seed,  powdered  and   silted  ;   iiit 


292  MRS.    T1ILL8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

same  of  cinnamon,  the  same  of  allspice.  Add  last  a  small  tea 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonftil  of  warm  water.  It 
is  better  to  stand  and  rise  about  fifteen  minutes  before  baking ; 
but  if  fruit  is  added,  it  should  be  baked  as  soon  as  the  fruit  ii 
worked  in  or  it  will  sink  to  the  bottom. 


730,  Doughnuts. — Half  a  pound  of  butter,  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  three  tumblerfuls  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs  beaten 
with  the  sugar ;  a  tumblerful  of  yeast,  flour  enough  to  make  a 
dough  as  soft  as  for  soda  biscuit ;  flavor  with  mace,  cinnamon,  or 
any  spices.  Set  it  to  rise,  and  when  it  has  risen  well,  roll  out 
and  cut  in  diamonds  or  small  squares,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard, 
turning  frequently.  When  a  light  brown,  take  them  out  and  lay 
on  a  soft  cloth  to  absorb  the  grease.  When  cold,  heap  in  a  dish, 
sprinkling  powdered  loaf  sugar  thickly  between. 


731.  Doughnuts  without  Yeast. — One  teacup  of  sour  milk,  two 
of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  four  eggs,  well  beaten ;  one  nutmeg  or 
mace,  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  roll.  Cut 
the  same  size,  any  shape  you  like.  Fry  in  plenty  of  hot  lard, 
turning  constantly,  and  manage  as  above. 


732.  Jumbles,  No.  1. — Three  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour, 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  one  tablespoou- 
ful  of  rose-water,  one  nutmeg.  Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  8 
cream.  Beat  the  eggs  light;  add  all  to  the  flour,  and  stir  hard 
with  a  knife.  Sprinkle  flour  upon  your  board ;  flour  your  handa 
well  take  up  with  the  knife  a  portion  of  the  dough,  and  lay  it  on 
the  board  ;  roll  lightly  with  the  hands  into  long,  thin  rolls.  Cut 
Into  equal  lengths ;  curl  into  rings  ;  lay  gently  into  an  iron  or  tin 
pan,  buttered  (not  too  close,  as  they  spread).  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  live  minutes  Grate  sugar  over  the  top.  The  top  of  tha 
oven  should  be  nearly  red  hot. 


732.  Fruit  Cup  Cake. — One  teacup  of  butter  two  of  vugar0 


CAKES. 


293 


fcKree  And  a  half  of  flour,  one  of  sour  milk ;  four  eggs;  tLj  juice 
•Jul  j«trt  of  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and 
two  cuns  of  currants.     Bake  in  small  pans. 

733£.  Cheap  Cake. — Four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  buti 
ter.  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  ten  ounces  of  flour. 

73  i  Lemon  Cheese  Cake. — One-half  pound  of  butter,  one 
pound  oi  sugar,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  whites  of  four,  whipped,  rind 
of  one  and  a  half  lemons,  strained  juice  of  two.  Stir  over  a 
gentle  fire  until  as  thick  as  cream.  Keep  in  a  close  jar  ;  to  put 
between  cakes. 


735  and  736.  Marble  Cake. —  White  Part. — Two  cups  of  white 
sugar,  one  cup  of  butter ;  beat  well  together,  then  stir  in  half  cup 
of  milk ;  mix  three  small  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  in  three 
cups  of  flour ;  beat  well  whites  of  seven  eggs,  and  now  stir  them 
end  the  flour  into  the  rest. 

Dark  Part. — Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
beat  together,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  beat  the  yolks  of  seven 
eggs,  and  stir  them  in ;  put  in  three  cups  of  flour,  in  which  is 
mixed  three  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder ;  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cinnamon,  one  of  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  and  nut- 
meg ;  put  in  a  layer  of  white  batter,  and  one  of  dark  until  the 
pan  is  full. 


*37.  Sweet  Wafers. — Two  ounces  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of 
mgar,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  five  eggs,  beaten  sepaiately.  Bake 
-n  wafer-irons  well  greased,  and  roll  over  a  knife. 

738.  Marmalade  Tea  Cakes. — One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound 
of  sugar,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  a  wineglass  of  wine,  cold 
water  enough  to  make  a  stiffish  dough.  Roll  into  a  paste  about 
a  quarter  of  an  injh  thick,  and  cut  out  with  a  tumbler.  Prick 
them,  and  bake  to  a  light  bro'vn  in  a  q'lick  oven.     Spread  ovei 


294  MRS.   hill's  new  cook   book. 

the  top  a  coat  of  marmalade,  and  on  this  a  meringue,  made  of 
powdered  loaf  sugar  and  the  whites  :>f  eggs,  and  flavored  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.  Return  to  the  oven  until  this  is  a  light  brown 
color. 


739.  Crullers. — Six  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  and  a  half 
of  sugar.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  well.  Stir  the  butter  into  flow 
enough  to  make  a  smooth  dough.  Roll,  and  cut  into  any  shape, 
wid  fry  in  hot  lard. 

740.  Busk. — Half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  three  pounds  of  floui 
iifted  well  together ;  pour  on  half  a  pint  of  good  yeast,  beat  sue 
eggs,  add  half  a  pint  of  milk ;  mix  all  together  and  knead  well ; 
if  not  soft  enough,  add  more  milk ;  it  should  be  softer  than  bread  ; 
make  it  at  night — in  the  morning,  if  well  risen,  work  in  six 
ounces  of  butter,  and  make  in  small  rolls.  When  well  risen, 
bake. 


740-|.  Busk — Three  eggs ;  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  pints  ot 
flour  sifted  together ;  one  cup  of  butter ;  a  large  yeast  cake  dis- 
solved in  warm  water. 


740}.  JLemon  Snaps. — One  large  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  more 
than  half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoon fuls  of  hot 
water,  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little  lemon-juice.  Flavoi 
with  the  extract,  roll  very  thin.     Should  not  be  much  worked 

711  Bunns. — One-quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  same  of 
t utter  one  pound  of  flour,  one  eggf  three  wineglassfuls  of  milk 
two  of  yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon ;  knead  the  dough  well 
tet  it  rise ;  then  divide  in  small  pieces ;  knead  each  piece  into  a  lit  tl 
round  cake ;  lay  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise 
prick  the  tops  with  a  fork.     When  risen,  bake  in  a  moderate  orea 

Bunns  may  be  glazed  on  the  top  with  the  white  of  an  egg 


CAKES.  29£ 

742.  Plain  Bunns, — One  tumbler  of  sweet  irilk,  thiee  eggs, 
lablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard,  six  tablespoon fuls  of  sugar,  beaten 
with  the  eggs  until  they  are  light ;  half  a  tumbler  of  go^J  yeast, 
flour  to  make  into  lather  a  soft  dough.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to 
riea.  When  risen,  mould  into  rolls,  as  in  the  foregoing.  Whe 
lisor  the  second  time,  bake  as  quickly  as  possible. 

747.  Pound  Cake,  No.  2. — One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
■agar,  three-quarters  pound  of  butter,  whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  yclki 
of  four.  Beat  sugar,  yolks,  and  butter  together  until  all  are 
creamed ;  then  mix  the  well-beaten  whites  alternately  with  the 
fiour ;  add  j  uice  of  one  lemon  and  one  teacup  of  sweet  milk. 

748.  Marvels. — Three  eggs,  three  tablespoon  fuls  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  lard,  flour  enough  to  make  it  of  the  con 
sistence  of  biscuit  dough.  Roll  and  cut  in  diamond  shapes,  or  in 
strips  about  four  inches  long  and  three  wide,  subdivided  into 
narrow  strips  connected  at  either  end.  Fry  in  boiling  lard, 
and  sift  loaf  sugar  over  them.  These  are  pretty  cut  with  a  jag 
ging-iron. 

749.  Lady's  Fingers. — Make  these  of  sponge-cake  batter; 
forrn  Ihem  an  oval  shape  upon  sheets  of  white  paper  slightly 
damp.  Make  them  three  inches  long,  of  the  same  size  and  shape 
When  done,  remove  them  carefully  from  the  paper ;  cover  the 
under  side  of  one  with  jelly ;  lay  on  this  another  cake,  putting 
the  under  side  upon  the  jelly  •  fit  them  neatly.  Sponge-cake  is 
excellent  made  of  half  corn  starch,  the  rest  wheat  flour,  or  arrow- 
root  and  flour.  Thes»,  may  be  cemented  with  icing,  or  the  white 
frf  an  egg,  instead  of  jelly. 

750  Soft  Ginger  Cake. — Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  three 
tumblcifuls  of  flour,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  molasses, 
•  teaspoonful  of  soda  stirred  well  into  the  molasses,  or  two  tea- 
•pooiifuls  <-f  yeas>t  powders  sprinkled  into  the  batter;  ginger,  to 
your  taste. 


7£1.  Drop  Cake. — Beat  two  eggs  separately;  beat  with  the 
folks  a  ciuaifcer  oi  a  pound  of  sugar;  cream  one   pint  of  sifted 


2fM>  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

am  ted  at  the  extreme  point.  Fry  in  plenty  of  boiling  lard 
When  taken  up,  sprinkle  loaf  sugar  thickly  over  them.  Instead 
of  shaping  as  above,  the  dough  may  be  cut  in  strips  about  an  ino> 
wide  and  four  inches  long,  aud  fried  as  directed.  The  forme? 
however  is  prettier. 


743.  Tip  Top  Cake. — One  eggt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
•lightly  heaped;  one  cup  of  sugar.  Cream  all  together  until 
light  and  spongy ;  add,  alternately,  two  cups  of  flour  and  a  small 
teacup  of  sweet  milk,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  yeast  powder  or  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar ;  rub 
the  cream  of  tartar  dry  in  the  flour ;  dissolve  the  soda  in  the 
milk.  Beat  all  together,  and  flavor  with  rose-water  or  with  any 
spice  or  extract  liked. 

744.  Orange  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  of  sifted  flour, 
half  cup  of  water,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  whites  of  three,  teaspoon- 
ful of  yeast  powder,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the  sugar ;  when  well 
mixed,  add  the  yolks  thoroughly  beaten.  Bake  in  pie  pans,  as 
Jelly  cake.  Put  frosting  between  the  cakes  made  with  the  whites 
of  the  two  eggs  left  out.  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange. 
Sugar  to  make  the  eggs  quite  stiff  and  the  orange  sufficiently 
tweet. 


745.  Railroad  Cake. — One  large  teacupful  of  sugar,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  somewhat  heaped,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  sifted 
flour,  one  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two 
of  cream  of  tartar,  or  a  dessert-spoonful  of  yeast  powders.  Dia 
•olve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  rub  the  cream  £  tartar  in  tb« 
flour.     Flavor  according  to  taste. 


746.  Nondescripts. — Yoks  of  four  eggs  beaten  light  one  tea- 
ipoonful  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  form  a  stiff  dough ;  beat  the 
dough  well,  and  roll  as  Urn  as  tissue  paper ;  cut  out  by  a  saucer, 
aiuS  Md  twice.     Cut  with  a  knife  into  nairow  strips,  leavng  i)ien> 


CAKES.  291 

dom  with  half  pound  of  Gutter,  half  nutmeg,  quarter  ctf  n  tea 
spoonful  of  soda  cream ;d  with  the  butter,  a  small  teacvp  of  cur- 
rants. Drop  from  a  spjon  into  a  warm  stove  pan  ;  bake  in  ■ 
moderate  oven. 


752.  "  Colquitt"  Ginger  Bread. — Half  a  pound  of  butter,  on* 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  six  eggs,  three  gills  of  molasses, 
half  a  gill  of  milk,  the  grating  of  one  orange,  half  a  pound  ol 
flour,  half  a  pound  of  corn  starch,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Beat  the  butter,  sugar,  and  spice  well  together  ;  mix  the  flour  and 
starch.  Beat  the  eggs,  and  add  to  them  the  starch  and  flcur.  half 
at  a  time.  Stir  the  milk  and  molasses  in ;  then  the  remainder 
of  the  flour  and  starch.  After  beating,  add  the  soda.  Line  with 
paper,  and  grease  the  pan.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


758.  Mrs.  BJ's  Soft  Ginger  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  three  of 
molasses,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  seven  cups 
of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  beaten  well  into  the  molasses  ; 
ginger  and  spice  to  taste. 


754.  Fruit  Ginger  Cake. — One  pound  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  of  molasses,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  one  pound 
of  currants,  the  same  of  raisins,  half  a  pound  of  citron,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  allspice,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  or  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast  powders. 

755.  Superior  Ginger  Cakes. — Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sour 
milk,  one  quart  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
:mc  cup  of  lard,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  an  even  tablespoon  • 
ful  of  soda  beaten  into  the  molasses.  The  eggs  and  sugar  should 
be  beaten  together  as  for  cake ;  the  butter  worked  into  the  flour. 
After  mixing  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  handle  as  little  as  possi- 
ble. Flour  your  board  and  rolling-pin  well,  as  the  dough  should 
be  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  Roll  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ' 
out  with  anj  shaped  tin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  cTen. 

13« 


298  MR?.    UILI.'S    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

7.56.  Ginger  Crisps. — One  cup  of  sugar,  two  of  molasses,  onf 
of  butter,  a  ^spoonful  of  soda  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
ginger  to  your  taste,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  very  thin  : 
but  with  a  wineglass,  and  bake  in  a  auick  oven. 

757.  Tea  Cake. — Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  fotr? 
3% tr3,  one  teaspoonfui  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  or  use  yeaat 
powder,  two  heaped  teaspooi.fuls,  a  little  nutmeg,  flour  to  make 
«  soft  d  mgh  ;  roll  thin,  cut  in  any  shape  liked  ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 


758.  Ginger  Nuts. — Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  one 
pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  molasses, 
five  even  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice, 
one  of  cloves,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  Make  a  smooth 
dough ;  roll  out,  and  cut  about  the  size  of  a  cent  piece ;  wash 
over  with  molasses  and  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


759.  Miss  Matilda? s  Ginger  Cakes. — Three  quarts  of  flour,  one 
teacup  of  lard,  one  quart  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of 
soda   beat   into  the  molasses,  half  a  teacup  of  sour  milk, 

and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger.  Roll  half 
an  inch  thick ;  cut  in  any  shape,  and  brush  over  with  the  white 
of  an  egg. 

760.  Ginger  Cakes. — One  quart  of  syrup,  one  tablespoonful 
of  ginger,  heaped  tablespoonful  of  lard,  half  teacup  of  butter- 
milk,  the  same  of  water,  two  eggs,  tablespoon  even  full  of  soda} 
flour  f  Dr  a  soft  dough.     Should  not  be  worked  much. 


761.  Spice  Ginger  Cake. — Five  eggs,  two  teacups  of  butter, 
four  of  flour,  two  of  sugar,  one  teacup  not  quite  full  of  molasses, 
with  a  teaspoonfui  of  soda  stirred  into  it  until  it  foams  from  the 
bottom;  a  wineglass  cf  biandy,  a  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one 
of  cinnamon,  and  one  of  allspice  and  cl  >ves  mixed.  Add  thi 
whites  frothed  last ;  next  to  the  last,  the  molasses.  Fruit  maj 
>-9  added 


ICING 

A  8T*w  pan  lined  with  porcelain  or  tin  is  the  best  rcssel  Aj  at 
fai  boiling  icing. 


762.  N»  apareil  Icing. — One  poimJ  <>f  the  best  loaf  sugar ;  pou» 
over  it  half  a  tum'olerftil  of  water;  let  it  boil  until  it  will  fall  in 
short  drops  from  the  spoon;  pour  it  immediately  into  an  earthen 
bowl,  and  when  it  is  milk-warm,  break  into  it  the  whites  of  three 
large,  fresh  hen's  ^ggs;  beat  until  stiff  and  white,  adding  half  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  or  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Flavor 
with  extract  of  lemon,  vanilla,  or  any  flavoring  preferred.  It  can 
be  colored  a  delicate  pink,  if  liked,  with  cochineal,  straw berrf 
juice  or  extract,  or  with  the  juice  of  a  beet. 


703.  Beautiful  Icing. — The  whites  of  ftur  eggs  well  beaten 
with  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  pulverized  and  silted,  a  teaspoonful 
of  arrowroot,  and  one  of  pulverized  and  sifted  white  gum  Arabic, 
and  the  juice  <  f  one  lemon.  Flavor  with  rose-water,  or  any- 
thing liked 

764.  Almond  Icing. — This  can  be  made  by  either  of  the  above 
receipts,  by  using  to  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  almonds, 
■weet  and  bitter  mixed,  blanched  and  beaten  to  a  paste,  with  a 
little  rose-wrater.  It  is  by  far  the  best  for  icing  fruit  cakes,  as  it  does 
not  become  discolored  so  easily  as  the  plain. 


In  using  icing,  after  the  cake  is  floured,  pour  (if  for  a  large 
cake)  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  on  the  top,  and  spread  over 
evenly  with  a  large-bladed  knife,  keeping  a  give  of  wa*er  con 
Vunient,  into  whieh  dip  the  knife  for  smoothing  over  any  little 
inoqualities  that  may  appear.     It  is  best  dried  in  the  sun  if  th« 


200  una.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

weather  will  permit.  If  dried  by  the  Are,  care  must  he  tanec  to 
prevent  scorching.  Should  any  of  the  icing  remain,  make  ci  it 
macaroons,  kisses,  and  meringues.  In  using  almonds,  alwa\  s  inir 
a  few  bitter  ones.,  or  peach  kernels,  with  the  sweet. 


705.  Almond  Macaroons.— One  pound  of  blanched  almonds 
jeat  to  a  paste,  with  rose-water,  one  pound  and  a  haif  of  loaf 
•ugar  pulverized,  ana  the  whites  of  seven  eggs;  mix  well.  Roll 
in  flour  a  teaspoonful  to  each  ball,  and  bake  upon  paper  buttered. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Coooanut  grated,  arid  parched  ground 
peas,  are  all  good. 

766.  Icing  made  with  Gelatine. — Two  tablespoozifule  of 
gelatine,  one  tiurMer  of  boiling  water;  boil  mtil  dissolved* 
•train      Make  a  stiff  f  ante  with  sugar ;  season 


FANCY  DISIIES. 

767  Charhtte  Polonaise. — Bake  a  sponge  cake,  dritra  shape— 
!*  straight  tin  bucket  will  answer.  Cut  out  the  inside,  leaving 
bottom  and  sides  two  inches  thick.  Make  Irish  moss,  or  gela- 
tine blanc-mange,  divide  it  into  four  parts,  and  season  each  one 
differently — vanilla,  lemon,  peach,  and  chocolate.  Moisten  th<J 
bottom  of  the  cake  with  a  little  water,  flavored  with  wine, 
orange-flower  water,  lemon,  or  vanilla.  When  the  blanc-mange 
is  cool,  not  cold,  put  a  layer  over  the  bottom  of  the  cake,  sprin- 
kle over  a  layer  of  grated  cocoanut,  then  blanc-mange  and  cocoa- 
nut  until  the  cake  mould  is  nearly  full.  Set  this  on  ice,  or  a  cold 
place.  Ice  the  sides,  and  cover  the  top  with  syllabub ;  ornament 
with  macaroons.  This  may  be  made  by  slicing  the  whole  cake 
and  putting  the  different  kinds  of  blanc-mange  between,  as  in 
jelly  cake,  or  bake  the  cakes  thin  in  pie  plates  like  jelly  cake. 

768.  Lemon  Souffle. — The  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  ounces  of 
sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  of  halt*  a  lemon.  Beat  these  together 
well ;  add  to  them  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  solid  froth, 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Put  all  immediately  into  a  deep 
pudding-dish,  and  bake  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  with  a 
sauoe  made  of  two  well-beaten  eggs,  the  juice  ar  \  grated  peel  of 
half  a  lemon.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  till  it  begins  to  rise.  Care 
inujit  be  taken  not  to  let  the  souffle  get  too  brown.  The  safest 
way  to  cook  souffles  is  to  sot  the  dish  over  boiling  water,  and 
h  ;ld  over  a  red  hot  salamander  or  large  shovel  until  the  egg  is  of 
i  golder  color. 

769.  Trifle. — Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
whip  a  pint  of  rich  cream  until  very  solid ;  then  mix  the  two  in 
a  bowl,  adding  alternately  cream  and  egg,  a  spoonful  at  a  time  ; 
flavor   to   taste.    .Serve  in  a  gl;u:s  stand,  putting  in  a  Jayer  of 


SOS  Mita.  iiill's  hew  cook  boo* 

cream,  then  one  of  almond  macaroons  or  met  indues.     Prepail 

this  just  before  serving. 


770.  Syllabub,  No.  1. — One  pint  of  thick  cream  (if  it  should 
oe  a  little  acid,  stir  in  enough  soda  to  sweeten  it).  Mix  with  the 
•ream  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  sifted  sugar ;  let  it  stand 
half  an  hour  ;  then  add  three  wineglasses  of  Sherry  or  Madeira 
wine.  Whip  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  fill  the  glasses.  Either  churn 
the  cream,  using  a  small  tin  sylkbub  churn  (which  can  be  pro- 
cured at  any  tin-shop),  or  pour  the  cream  upon  a  flat  dish  and 
whip  with  a  silver  fork  or  egg-beatep. 


^Tl.  Chocolate  Cream. — Scrape  into  a  quart  of  fresh  sweat 
milk  or  cnntn  one  ounce  of  best  French  chocolate ;  sweeten  to 
taste ;  boil,  stir  it  well.  Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  stifl 
froth,  put  them  in  a  bowl,  pour  the  chocolate  to  it,  stir  all  to- 
gether well,  and  rapidly,  strain  through  a  sieve.  Serve  in  cua- 
tard  cups,  rold. 


772.  Boiled  Custard. — Twelve  common-sized  teacups  of 
sweet  milk,  twelve  eggs,  all  broken  together  and  well  beaten  ; 
thirteen  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  beaten  into  the  eggs. 
Put  .he  milk  on  to  simmer  with  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon.  After 
the  eggs  are  well  beaten,  pour  them  into  the  milk,  stirring  the 
milk  constantly  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  it  off,  and  set 
where  it  will  become  perfectly  cold.  Take  of  whipped  syllabub 
enough  to  cover  the  tops  of  the  glasses  which  you  fill  with  the 
cu*tards;  place  it  on  the  bottom  of  a  clean  sifter  inverted  over  a 
plate,  and  let  it  remain  long  enough  to  drip  out  any  cream  that 
the  froth  may  contain.  When  well  dripprd,  heap  roughly  upon 
the  top  of  the  custard  in  the  glasses.  'Die  custard  may  be  served 
in  a  large  glass  bowl. 


773.  Plain  Boiled  Custard. — Put  to  boil  a  quart  cf  fresh  milk. 


FANCY    DISHES.  803 

Take  two  tablespoonfuls  >f  corn  or  potato  star  .h.  farina,  or  arrow 
root,  or  of  wheat  flour,  and  mix  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little 
oold  milk.  When  the  quart  of  milk  boils  up,  pour  the  paste  tc 
it,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes.  In  a  large  bowl  stir  to  the  yolka 
of  eight  eggs  eight  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar  until 
ihey  are  mixed.  (The  yolks  of  the  eggs  should  be  beaten  as 
little  a*  will  answer,  as  custards  are  mueh  richer  to  retain  as 
much  as  possible  of  the  natural  color  of  the  egg.)  When  the 
milk  is  tepid,  pour  it  to  the  eggs,  and  return  to  the  kettle ;  throw 
in  a  stick  or  two  of  cinnamon,  and  boil  according  to  the  directions 
following  this  receipt.  When  the  custard  is  done,  pour  it  into  an 
earthen  bowl ;  stir  steadily  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  set  it  where 
i%  will  become  icy  cold.     Flavor  with  any  extract  liked. 

The  whites  should  not  be  beaten  until  just  before  the  custard 
is  to  be  served ;  then  whip  them  to  a  &c!id  froth,  and  flavor  with 
the  same  flavoring  used  for  the  custard.  They  may  be  delicately 
colored  with  a  teaspoonful  of  molasses,  or  with  any  of  the  color- 
ing extracts,  or  with  cochineal.  Lay  this  upon  the  custard. 
Serve  the  custard  in  a  large  glass  bowl  or  in  custard  cups.  This 
custard  is  excellent  poured  into  cups,  the  cups  set  in  an  oven  or 
pan  half  filled  with  boiling  water,  and  baked. 

Directions  for  boiling  custards :  For  this  a  double  kettle  i§ 
best ;  where  this  cannot  be  procured,  boil  in  a  tin  bucket ;  set  in 
an  oven  of  water  kept  constantly  boiling.  Stir  the  custard  well 
from  the  bottom,  and  when  it  begins  to  form  like  beads  on  the 
bottom  of  the  spoon,  lose  no  time  in  pouring  it  out.  An  earthen 
%e*sel  is  best  for  pouring  it  into,  as  it  does  not  retain  heat  so  long 
as  tin.  After  pouring  it  out,  stir  steadily  for  five  or  six  minutt-s 
M§  it  sometimes  curdles  after  it  is  taken  up.  For  making  cus 
laids,  perfectly  fresh  milk  should  be  used.  Should  it  be  neces 
«aiy  to  -jse  that  which  has  been  standing,  first  add  co  t  a  little 
»oda  to  prevent  its  turning. 

774.  White  Custard. — The  whites  of  eight  eggs,  one-quarter  o/ 
a  pound  of  sjgar;  whip  as  you  would  for  icing.     Boil  a  quart  oi 


304 


MR8.    HILLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 


milk  ;  add  to  it  a  tablespoon ful  of  arrowroot;  wet  up  with  cold 
milk,  and  boil  for  tive  minutes.  Pour  off  the  milk,  and  when 
tepid,  add  it  tc  the  eggs,  stirring  well.  Return  it  to  the  kettle* 
and  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  <<i  out,  and  whel 
x>ol,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  any  thing  preferred. 

It  is  well  to  make  this  to  serve  with  those  baked  custards  il 
rhich  only  the  yolk  of  the  egg  is  used. 


775.  Tapioca  Boiled  Custard. — Put  to  soak  in  one  pint  of  m'dk 
a  tumblerful  of  tapioca.  Let  it  soak  at  least  an  hour;  then  pou* 
to  it  a  quart  of  milk  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Put  on 
to  boil  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon  or  a  few  fresh  peach  leaves,  to 
flavor  it.  When  the  tapioca  is  soft,  aud  the  custard  begins  to  thicken, 
take  it  up.     Serve  in  custard-cups,  grating  a  little  nutmeg  over. 


776.  Floating  Island. — Place  slices  of  sponge  or  Naples  biscuh 
at  the  bottom  of  a  large  glass  stand.  Pour  the  dish  half  full  of 
good  boiled  custard.  Beat  to  the  whites  of  the  eggs  six  tabU 
spoonfuls  of  hog's  foot  or  calf's  foot  jelly  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pla« 
this  irregularly  on  the  top  of  the  custard. 

If  it  is  not  convenient  to  use  either  of  the  jellies  mentioned, 
anv  kind  of  fruit  jelly  will  answer,  using  four  tablespoonfuls. 


777  Tipsy  Squire. — Saturate  with  Sherry  wine  a  thin  sponge- 
cake. Ornament  the  top  with  blanched  almonds,  sticking  them 
in  with  the  points  upwards,  and  tastily  arranged.  Half  fill  a 
large  glass  bowl  with  good  boiled  custard,  and  carefully  place  the 
cake  on  the  top  of  the  custard,  taking  care  that  the  bowl  used  is 
•f  a  circumference  somewhat  larger  than  that  of  the  cake. 


T78.  Muffled  Cake. — Place  a  thin  sponge-cake  m  the  bottom 
of  a  glass  bowl.  Nearly  fill  the  bowl  with  rich  boiled  custaid. 
Heap  thick  and  high  over  this,  syllabub  from  which  :he  cream 
nas  been  dripped  throug'i  a  sieve.  Ornament  this  with  smaH 
thin  bits  of  solid  fruit  jelly. 


FANCY    DHHES  305 

779.  Velvet  Cream. — Three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  isinglaai 
dissolved  in  a  teacup  of  white  wine,  warm;  strain  it;  mix  with 
one  piut  of  cream  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Sweeten  to  y;ui 
iaste,  and  when  all  is  mixed  together,  pour  into  moulds. 


78C  Swiss  Cream. — One  pint  jf  sweet  cream,  half  a  pound  of 
oaf  sugar,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs.  Beat  together,  and  simmer 
for  a  few  minutes.  Put  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  quart  of  watez, 
and  boil  down  to  a  pint.  Pour  the  two  mixtures  together.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil ;  set  it  aside.  When  cool,  flavor  with  lemon 
01  vanilla.  Put  upon  it  syllabub  from  which  the  cream  has  beeu 
dripped  through  a  sieve. 

781.  Isabella  Cream. — One  ounce  of  isinglass  dissolved  in  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water.  After  straining  it,  add  one  quart  of 
cream,  and  stir  till  it  boils.  One  teacup  of  crushed  sugar  is  now 
put  in,  and  the  mixture  a  little  cooled ;  then  the  beaten  yolks  of 
six  eggs  are  gradually  added,  together  with  one  glass  of  wine. 
The  whole  should  be  strained  and  stirred  until  almost  cool,  when 
it  may  be  turned  into  a  mould.  This  is  a  handsome  dish,  as  tiie 
yolks  of  the  eggs  give  it  a  fine,  rich  color. 


782.  Bohemian  Cream. — Take  any  kind  of  fruit 

which  has  been  stewed  soft  with  sugar;  pass  this  through  a 
sieve ;  add  to  half  a  pint  of  the  fruit  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
melted  isinglass ;  mix  it  well ;  whip  up  a  pint  of  cream,  and  add 
to  it  gradually  the  fruit  and  isinglass.  Put  it  into  a  mould ;  sot 
on  ice  or  in  any  cool  place,  and  wheQ  ready,  dip  the  mould  into 
Warm  water  and  turn  out. 

Grated  pineapple  will  make  the  above  cream  most  elegant. 
it  is  very  nice  made  with  apples  or  any  good  fruit,  and  almond 
aream,  very  nice,  may  be  made  by  substituting  for  the  fnut 
almonds  blanched  and  pounded  with  rose-water. 


783   Apple  Souffle. — Boil  and  sweeten  the  fruit;  strain  thiougt 


806  MRS.    HILl'8    NEW    COCK    BOOK. 

a  sieve.  Put  this  into  a  deep  dish.  When  cold,  pour  over  • 
rich  justard  about  two  inches  deep.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggi 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  lay,  in  rough  pieces,  or.  the  custard.  Sift  tint 
•vgar  over  it  thick,  and  put  into  a  slack  oven  for  a  ew  minute*. 


784  Egg  Souffle. — Six  eggs,  beaten  separately ;  with  the  yolk 
be&\  a  fcablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg,  very  thoroughly ;  mi* 
?ery  lightly  with  the  whites;  flavor  with  any  kind  of  extract;  put 
into  a  tire-proof  dish,  filling  the  dish,  and  heaping  slightly.  Put 
into  a  6tove  or  oven  of  a  very  moderate  heat,  and  let  it  remain 
until  heated  through,  and  a  very  light  crust  is  formed  over  it 
To  be  eaten  immediately. 

This  is  a  very  nice  little  dessert ;  serves  well  as  an  accompani 
nuent  to  cake.  Should  not  be  made  until  after  dinner  has  been 
sent  in,  as  very  few  minutes  are  required  for  making  it,  and 
should  be  very  closely  watched  while  baking,  as  too  great  heat 
will  quickly  spoil  it. 

785.  Apple  Float. — One  pint  of  dried  apples,  stewed,  mashed, 
and  strained  ;  sweeten  and  flavor  with  nutmeg  to  taste.  Beat  to 
a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  six  eggs ;  add  lightly  to  the  fruit.  Eat 
in  saucers  or  strawberry  plates,  with  rich  cream  sauce 


786.  Apple  Snow — Is  made  by  the  same  receipt,  using  green 
apples  instead  of  dried. 

787.  Float. — Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
flavored  with  a  few  drops  of  extract  of  lemon  ;  sweeten  a  pint  of 
rioh  cream ;  pour  it  over  the  eggs ;  add  six  teaspoonfuls  of  currant 
01  s>>me  dark,  acid  jelly.  Beat  for  an  hour,  until  perfectly  lig?  » 
The  cream  will  answer  if  a  little  acid. 


788.  Charlotte  Russe. — Dissolve  in  a  pint  of  water  one  and  a 
nail*  o'inoes  of  isinglass;  let  it  boil  ULtil  reduced  one  half.  Boil,, 
and  flavor  with  vanilla,  oi.e  pint  of  x.iilk.      Beat  well  the  yolk* 


FANCY    DISHES.  301 

of  six  eggs,  and  stir  ink  them  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Strait 
the  milk  into  the  eggs;  let  them  simmer  on  the  fiie  t  few  mo- 
ments, but  not  boil.  Strain  the  isinglass  into  the  custard 
Whip  to  a  strong  froth  two  pints  of  cream ;  lay  this  on  the  bot 
torn  cf  a  sifter,  inverted,  to  drip ;  then  stir  it  into  the  custard, 
and  set  it  away  to  congeal.  (Flavor  the  cream  with  wine.)  Put 
it  into  a  mould  to  give  it  a  pretty  shape  before  it  cools; 
or,  if  you  prefer,  make  a  mould  of  sponge-cake,  by  cutting  oul 
the  centre,  leaving  the  walls  an  inch  or  two  thick.  Or,  make  a 
mould  of  lady's  fingers,  by  placing  them  upright  inside,  of  any 
kind  of  a  shape,  cementing  the  edges  with  the  white  of  an  egg 
After  they  are  placed,  set  the  mould  on  ice,  and  pour  in  the 
Charlotte  russe  just  as  it  begins  to  congeal.  Keep  it  on  ice  until 
just  before  serving.     This  may  be  iced. 


789.  bavarian  Cream. — One  pint  of  cold  water,  one  box  of 
Cox's  gelatine,  dissolve,  let  stand  an  hour  ;  one  and  a  half  pints 
boiling  water,  two  teacups  of  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Churn 
one-half  gallon  of  cream,  stir  in  the  jelly  when  almost  cold. 


789  J.  Bisque  Glace. — Three  pints  of  rich  cream  sweetened 
well.  Beat  four  eggs  separately,  mix  them,  stir  to  the  cream ; 
make  a  moderately  stiff  batter  of  the  cream  by  adding  stale  sponge 
cake  grated  fine,  or  macaroons  moistened  with  cream.  Beat  until 
smooth  ;  merely  scald  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle.  It  must  rot  boil 
When  cool  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  and  freeze  stiff. 


790.  Curds  aud  Cream. — Drip  the  whey  from  clabber  through 
ft  perforated  tin  shape — a  large  heart  shape  is  very  pretty.  Sei  ve 
(wl  en  dry  enough  to  turn  out)  with  rich  cream  sauce,  flavored 
with  nutmeg. 

791.  Buttermilk  Curds. — Three  pints  of  buttermilk,  thrc« 
tumblers  of  new  milk.  Boil  the  sweet  milk  with  a  stick  cf  cio, 
lumon;  pour  to  the  buttermilk  hot;  let   it  stand  until  *he  uhej 


308  MRS.    HILL'S    l»ifiW    COOK    BOOK. 

is  cleared  from  the  curds ;  drip  it      Eat  with  cream  and  loaf 
sugar.     Flavor  with  nutmeg. 


792.  Directions  for  Freezing  Ice  Creams  and  Custards. — foe- 
creams,  custards  and  water  are  so  delightful  and  refreshing  foi 
lummei  desserts  and  tea,  it  is  to  me  a  matter  of  astonishment 
,hat  every  family  is  not  supplied  with  a  patent  icecream  freezer ^ 
of  which  there  are  many  in  the  market.  By  the  use  of  one  of 
these,  the  process  of  freezing  is  rendered  so  much  more  expedi- 
tious and  satisfactory  as  to  more  than  compensate  for  the  trilling 
expense  involved  in  its  purchase.  If  not  provided  with  this  con- 
venience, a  small  quantity  of  ice-cream  can  be  frozen  in  a  tin 
bucket,  taking  care  that  there  are  no  holes  in  it  to  let  in  the 
water,  and  spoil  the  cream.  Set  this  bucket  in  a  wooden  tub  or 
bucket  several  inches  larger.  On  the  bottom  of  this  place  a  layer 
of  pounded  ice  and  salt ;  set  in  the  bucket  containing  the  cream, 
or  custard,  and  pack  closely  around  its  sides  a  mixture  of 
pounded  ice  and  salt  (mixed  in  the  proportion  of  six  pounds  of 
ice  to  one  of  salt),  extending  to  within  two  inches  of  the  top  of 
the  freezer.  Cover  the  freezer,  and  keep  it  in  constant  motion, 
removing  the  cover  frequently  to  scrape  the  congealed  cream 
from  the  sides  with  a  silver  spoon  or  wooden  paddle,  taking  care 
to  keep  the  sides  clear,  and  stirring  it  well  to  the  bottom.  Keep 
the  tub  well  filled  \*  ith  salt  and  ice  outside  the  freezer,  and  take 
great  care  that  none  of  the  salt  water  gets  in  to  spoil  the  cream. 
The  outside  tub  or  bucket  should  have  a  hole  in  or  near  the  bot- 
tom, from  which  the  bung  can  be  removed  to  allow  the  water  to 
pass  out  as  the  ice  melts.  After  the  cream  is  well  frozen,  it  may 
be  packed  in  moulds,  and  set  in  salt  and  pounded  ice.  When 
you  wish  to  serve  it,  wrap  the  mould  witk  a  hot  cloth,  turn  out 
the  cream  and  serve  immediately. 

For  making  ice-cream,  genuine  cream  is,  of  course,  preferable. 
But  in  the  absence  of  this,  equal  parts  of  milk  and  cream  maybe 
used ;  or,  the  miik  may  be  heated,  and,  while  hot,  perfectly  fresh 
rweet  butter  added  to  it  ii  sufficient  quantity  to  give  it  the  rich- 


FANCY    DISIIE8.  30* 

of  cream.  Bjiled  milk  or  custards  must  be  allowed  w 
become  perfectly  cold  before  putting  them  in  the  fieezer.  Sour 
cream  or  buttermilk  may  be  used  by  stirring  into  them  enough 
toda  to  correct  their  acid  before  sweetening  and  flavoring. 
Custards  and  creams  for  freezing  should  be  sweetened  and 
flavored  more  highly  than  when  not  frozen.  A  half  pound  oi 
powdered  loaf  sugar  and  four  eggs  will  be  sufficient  for  a  quart 
cf  custard;  stir  the  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Scald  fresh  sweet 
milk  ;  pour  boiling  hot  upon  the  eggs,  stirring  constantly.  Fla- 
vor to  taste,  and  when  cold,  pour  into  the  freezer.  Finish  by  the 
directions  already  given. 

When  flavored  with  fruit  (if  raspberries  or  strawberries), 
stem  the  fruit ;  mash  it ;  add  to  each  pint  four  tablespocnfuls  of 
powdered  loaf  sugar;  stir  this  into  the  fruit.  Add  a  grated 
lemon  to  each  quart.  This  is  not  absolutely  necessary,  but  is  an 
Improvement ;  the  custard  is  rather  insipid  without  it.  Let  this 
let  at  least  two  hours  before  using.  Strain  the  fruit,  pressing  it 
through  a  sieve.  Use  a  pint  of  juice  to  a  pint  of  custard.  The 
color  may  be  heightened  by  adding  to  the  juice  a  little  prepared 
cochineal ;  add  more  sugar  if  not  sufficiently  sweet.  For  pine- 
apple custard,  grate  the  fruit  after  peeling;  it  is  better  if  one 
grated  lemon  is  used  to  each  pineapple.  Soft  peaches  may  be 
used,  mashing  and  rubbing  1hem  through  a  sieve  ;  mix  wiih  the 
cream  or  custard,  and  freeze.  Apricots,  apples,  etc.,  01  any  fruit 
liked,  may  be  grated  or  cooked,  and  then  mashed,  sweetened,  and 
stirred  to  the  cream  or  custard ;  let  it  remain  until  the  flavor  is 
sufficiently  imparted,  then  strain,  and  put  to  freeze.  The  extracts 
fcrd  syrups  of  these  fruits  afford  a  good  substitute  when  the  fresh 
fruit  cannot  be  procured.  If  a  richer  custard  is  preferred,  use 
either  of  the  three  gn  en  in  the  receipts  for  bo  led  custards.  The 
white  custard  is  particularly  fine  when  frozen.  Flavor  to  taste, 
the  flavoring  giving  the  name  to  the  custard. 


793.   Milk  Sherbet. — Sweeten,  and  flavor  the  milk  to  taste; 
put  it  in  the  freeier  just  as  it  begirt  to  freeze  ,  adi  the  juice  of 


810  MRS.    HILL  8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

three  lemons  (first  roll  the  lemons  before  squcezirg)  to  eaci 
gallon  of  milk;  add  a  little  of  the  extract  of  lemon.  Stir  at 
together  well;  flavor  the  milk  by  boiling  the  peel  in  it;  then 
when  cold,  freeze. 


794.  Lemon- Water  Ice. — Rub  lumps  of  sugar  upon  the  rind. 

f  four  lemons  until  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  is  used ;  pour  over  it  & 
quart  of  water ;  squeeze  in  the  juice.  Freeze,  or  make  a  lemon 
ode,  sweeter  than  when  not  intended  to  freeze,  and  more  highly 
flavored.     Freeze,  and  serve  in  glasses. 


795.  Orange-Water  Ice — Is  made  in  the  same  way  as  the 
lemon-water  ice,  using  less  sugar,  and  if  the  oranges  are  very 
sweet,  use  one  lemon  to  four  large  oranges.  After  these  prepara- 
tions are  nearly  frozen  stiff,  stir  into  a  quart  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  thoroughly.  Serve  in  glasses 
Any  kind  of  fruit  ices  may  be  prepared  by  adding  to  the  watei 
any  syrup  or  jam  of  the  fruit  desired.  Grate  apples,  sweeten, 
and  freeze  them ;  mash  soft  peaches,  freeze  them,  and  any  kind 
of  fruit  liked. 


796.  Sherbet. — To  six  lemons  and  eight  sweet  oranges,  sliced 
and  the  seed  removed,  put  one  gallon  of  water,  and  sweeten  to 
taste.     Freeze,  or  use  ice. 


797.  Wine  Ices — Are  made  by  taking  as  much  lei&onade  as  is 
required  for  freezing,  making  it  not  quite  so  highly  flavored  as 
for  lemon  ice — omitting  one  lemon,  and  adding  cUret  or  Sherry 
to  taste.  Add  Jamaica  rum  to  the  lemonade  and  you  h&Tt 
Boman  punch.     Freeze,  or  use  ice. 


797J.  Pine-Apple  Ice. — Peel  and  grate  om  /arge  pineHtppla 
•^d  enough  water  to  make,  including  tl  e  fruit,  tw  >  quarts,  sweeten- 
well  and  freeze  stiff.  Wrap  a  hot  napkin  around  the  mnrjidjuat 
before  serving,  if  you  wish  to  preserve  tne  form. 


FRUITS,    ETC. 

*  Nothing  can  be  more  delicious  than  fruit.     It  is  a  cheap  mi«> 
*J   famishing  a  dessert,  or  for  the  tea-table — wholesome,  nu»    , 
tious,  and  pleasant. 

"  Every  species  has  a  flavor  peculiar  to  itself,  and  this  vanetj 
renders  them  mure  pleasing.  Thus  God  resembles  a  tender 
father,  who  provides  not  only  for  the  support,  but  also  for  the 
pleasures  of  his  children. 


798.  To  Prepare  the  Pineapple  for  the  Table. — An  old  writer 
(Sturm)  says  of  this  fruit:  "That  pride  of  vegetable  life,  and 
compendium  of  all  the  blandishments  of  taste — the  pineapple." 
Peel  them ;  slice  thin ;  pile  in  layers,  sprinkling  between  each 
layer  powdered  loaf  sugar.  A  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of 
fruit.  Let  this  stand,  an  hour  or  two  before  using.  Some  per- 
sons  add  wine.  I  protest  against  the  adding  of  a  single  thing. 
"  Loveliness  needs  not  the  foreign  aid  of  ornament."  Pineapples 
are  best  sliced  lengthwise,  so  as  to  avoid  the  centre,  which  is 
hard  and  tasteless. 


790.  Ambrosia — Is  made  by  placing  upon  a  glass  stand;  n 
other  deep  vessel,  alternate  layers  of  grated  cocoanut,  orange? 
peeled  and  sliced  round,  and  a  pineapple  sliced  thin.  Begin  with 
the  oianges,  and  use  cocoanut  last,  spreading  between  each  layei 
■uW  loaf  sugar.     Sweeten  the  cocoanut  milk,  and  pour  over. 


800.   Snow. — Cocoanut  grated;  ornament  with  box- vine,  oi 
•nah  bits  of  deep  red  jelly. 


801.  Oranges. — A  pretty  style  of  preparing  oranges  for  thi 
tabic  is  to  cut  the  rind  through  with  a  sharp  penknife  into  quar- 
ters taavuw  the  pulp  whole.    Peel  off  the  rind,  leaving  it  at 'ached 


SI 2  MRS.   hill's  new   cook   book. 

to  the  orange  at  the  stem  end,  and  turn  in  the  separated  points,  M5 
as  to  form  a  cup-like  receptacle  for  the  fruits.  Heap  this  Id 
stutids,  and  ornament  with  orange  l«j»ves,  or  some  other  bright, 
flossy  leaves : 

802    Bananas. — Strip  them ;  serve  upon  a  flat  dish,     donoo* 
iiaes  used  with  cream. 


803,  Peaches  and  Cream. — Peel  soft  juicy  peaches,  quarter 
them,  put  a  layer  of  peaches,  one  of  sugar,  sprinkling  it  on  very 
thick  until  the  desired  quantity  is  prepared.  Spread  thickly  over 
the  last  layer  of  peaches  powdered  loaf  sugar.  Set  the  dish  upon 
ice  or  in  a  very  cool  place  an  hour  before  using ;  do  not  bruise 
them.  Some  persons  like  them  best  mashed  fine,  sweetened,  and 
a  little  grated  nutmeg  added  ;  in  either  way  serve  in  small  deep 
plates;  eat  with  rich  cream. 


804.  Raspberries  and  Strawberries — Are  also  delicious.  Cap 
them,  wash  very  little ;  they  must  not  be  allowed  to  remain  in 
the  water  a  moment  longer  than  necessary.  Put  layers  of  ths 
feuit  and  powdered  loaf  sugar  in  glass  stands.  The  fruit  will  will 
after  the  sugar  is  put  upon  them ;  this  is  particularly  the  case  with 
strawberries.  If  they  are  to  be  kept  several  hours,  it  is  best  not 
to  cap  them  (always  wash  them  before  capping)  until  an  hour 
before  they  are  to  be  served. 

805.  A  Pretty  Dish. — Pare  and  core,  without  splitting,  some 
amall-sized  tart  apples;  boil  them  gently  with  one  lemon  for 
every  six  apples  until  a  straw  will  pass  through  them.  Make  a 
yyrup  of  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  for  each  pound  of  appl?s; 
put  the  apples  in  unbroken,  and  the  lemons  sliced,  and  boil 
gectly  until  the  apples  look  clear.  Take  them  up  care.fi  lly,  so  as 
not  to  break  them;  add  an  ounce  or  more  of  clarified  isinglass 
to  the  syrup,  and  let  it  boil  up.  Put  the  apples  in  a  glass  stand 
with  a  slice  of  lemon  over  each,  and  when  the  syiup  is  nearlj 
cold,  strain  it  over  them.     Eat  with  thick  cream. 


FRUITS,   KTC. 


SIS 


806.  Watermelon* — Make  a  delicbus  dessert.  A  bright  red 
ritermelon  makes  a  very  showy  appearance  if  cut  through  the 
mddle,  crosswise,  in  points.  Cut  a  piece  off  each  end  so  as  to 
jive  both  halves  a  level  base  to  stand  upon. 


807.  Breakfast  Fruits. — Grapes,  figs,  and  cantelopes  are  nice 
oreaKlast  fruits,  and  may  be  served  in  this  way  :  Remove  the  first 
nourse,  and  the  white  cloth;  if  the  table  is  not  a  handsome  one,  it 
should  be  covered  with  a  wine  cloth,  under  the  white  tablecloth ; 
always  send  colored  doylies  with  fruit.  Grapes  may  be  tastily 
arranged  witli  their  leaves.  Finger-bowls  should  be  placed  before 
each  person,  to  be  used  after  the  fruit  course  is  finished. 


SOS  Lemon  Cream. — The  yolks  ul  seven  eggs  beat  very  light. 
Seven  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  wine-glass  of  wine,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  the  grated  rind  of  two.  Put  on  the  tire.  It  is 
safest  to  put  the  bucket  in  which  custards  ar  j  boiled  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water,  keep  the  water  which  surrounds  the  custard  boil- 
ing ;  there  is  less  danger  of  its  curdling  or  burning  when  boiled 
in  this  way  ;  stir  until  the  thickness  of  rich  cream.  Beat  the 
Tfhites  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  the  custard  through  it.  Serve  in  cus- 
tard glasses,  or  line  a  glass  dish  with  stale  01  stou^e  cake  tatui 
ated  with  wine,  pour  the  oustard  ever. 


514 


MRS.    HILL  S  NEW  COOK  BOOK. 


808J.    Courtship  and  Matrimony. — Make  ice-cream^  and 
trith  it  fresh  soft,  or  canned  peaches ;  freeze  all  together. 


809.  Gelatine  Jelly — Mrs.  W.'s  Receipt. — One  box  of  Cox5t 
gelatine,  two  quarts  of  water,  one  pint  of  wine,  two  lemons,  cue 
cj'iart  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  sticks  of  cinnamon,  one  and  a  half 
jozen  cloves,  two  blades  of  mace,  the  beaten  whites  and  shells  of 
six  eggs ;  stir  till  it  boils.  Let  it  boil  thirty  minutes,  and  straia 
through  a  Canton  flannel  bag. 

Cox's  sparkling  gelatine  is  a  superior  article,  and  the  direc- 
tions, which  are  very  good,  always  accompany  the  packages. 


810.  Lemon  Jelly. — One  ounce  of  the  best  isinglass,  one  and  • 
half  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  three  lemons  (pulp,  skin,  and  juice),  re- 
moving the  seed.  Pour  on  the  isinglass  a  quart  of  boiling  -vater  ; 
stir  into  this  the  lemon ;  add  a  glass  of  the  best  Sherry  or  Madi  ira 
wwie.  Strain  into  moulds.  If  the  lemons  are  not  fresh,  add  a 
little  tartaric  acid.  If  this  does  not  congeal,  dissolve,  and  add 
more  isinglass. 

Orange  jelly  is  made  in  the  same  way,  using  oranges  instead 
of  lemons. 


811.  Wine  Jelly. — One  ounce  of  Cox's  Sparkling  gelatine,  ont 
pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  boiling 
wat»r;  add  the  sugar  and  a  quart  of  white  wino.  Stir  the  mix 
ture  very  hard,  and  pour  it  into  a  mould.  When  it  has  con- 
gealed, wrap  the  mould  in  a  cloth  dipped  in  warm  water ;  tin  u 
out  the  jelly,  and  eat  with  cream. 


812.  Mane-Mange. — Take  a  pint  of  jelly  after  it  Is  prepared  ; 
melt  it,  and  mix  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  loaf  sugar;  put  it  into  the  kettle  ag^in, 


FRUITS,    ETC.  31  & 

and  let  it  jiut  come,  to  a  boil.  Tour  it  into  a  monl  I,  and  set  in 
a  cool  place,  and  stir  for  some  time  to  prevent  its  curdling.  JW 
with  cream  or  custard,  flavored  with  lemons.  First  make  a  pint. 
of  jelly,  then  add  the  eggs. 


813.  Blanc-3fange,  No.  2. — One  measure  of  jelly  after  it  if 
prepared,  and  one  of  cream.  After  they  are  melted  together, 
flavor  with  sugar  and  wine  to  taste.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  and 
poui  into  moulds.     Wet  the  moulds  with  cold  water  before  using. 


814.  Carrageen  or  Irish  Moss  Blanc-Mange. — Pick  and  wash 
thoroughly  one  cup  of  Irish  moss;  pour  to  it  one  quart  of  milk. 
Sweeten  to  taste.  Let  it  boil  until  it  thickens ;  strain  through  a 
thin  cloth,  and  pour  into  a  mould.  Very  little  boiling  is  nece* 
»ary.     Eat  with  sweetened  cream  or  with  custard. 


815.  Corn  Starch  Blanc-Mange. — Four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
starch  to  one  quart  of  milk;  beat  the  starch  thoroughly  with  two 
eggs,  and  add  it  to  the  milk,  when  near  boiling,  with  a  little  salt; 
boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  it  briskly.  Flavor  with  rose,  lemon, 
or  vanilla,  and  cool  in  small  cups  or  wineglasses.  When  cold 
and  stiff,  turn  into  a  glass  stand.  Sweeten  it  while  cooking,  oj 
use  a  sauce  of  sugar  and  cream. 

Farina  blano-mange  is  made  in  the  same  way.  Set  on  ice  if 
convenient. 


816.  Arrowroot  Blanc- Mange. — A  teacupful  of  arrowroot  wet 
up  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  water.  Boil  a  quart  of  mil  J.  and 
pour  to  the  arrowroot,  stirring  it  well.  Boil  again  until  it 
thickens,  and  pour  into  cups  or  moulds.  Flavor  and  sweeten  tc 
taste  before  boiling  the  second  time.  By  the  addition  of  a  few 
eggs,  and  a  little  butter,  this  makes  a  very  nice  custaii,  baked  in 
•  rich  paste. 

Potato  starch  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 


816  MRS.    HILL'S    NEW    COOK    l.^CK. 

817.  Isinglass  Blanc-Mange An  ounce  of  ishiglaas  (in  warn 

woather  an  ounce  and  a  quarter) ;  dissolve  in  a  pint  :>f  boiling 
water.  Let  it  stand  until  cold  ;  add  a  quart  of  milk  and  a  stick 
of  cinnamon.  Boil  until  the  isinglass  is  dissolved;  sweeten  and 
flavor  to  taste,  and  turn  into  ?«^ulds.  Wet  the  moulds  with  cold 
water  before  pouring  in  the  blanc-mange ;  it  will  turn  out  better. 


818.  Ice  Pudding  (A  Delicious  Dessert). — Make  a  rich  boiled 
custard  of  a  pint  of  milk,  pint  of  cream,  yolks  of  eight  eggs ; 
sweeten  to  taste.  Beat  smooth,  adding  rose-water,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  sweet  and  bitter  almonds ;  mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  raisins  seeded,  the  same  of  currants,  half  as  much  citron  and 
preserved  orange  peel ;  flour  these  well.  Pour  the  custard  hot 
over  the  fruit ;  mix  well.  When  cool,  add  a  pint  of  whipped  and 
drained  syllabub.  Put  it  into  any  kind  of  mould  of  pretty  shape, 
and  freeze  it.  Serve  with  custard  or  syllabub  sauce ;  flavor  and 
nweeten  to  taste. 


819.  Fruit  Jellies — Should  be  made  with  the  best  loaf  sugar. 
The  pulverized  sugar  is  more  or  less  adulterated.  The  fruit 
should  be  of  good  quality,  and  free  from  defects.  Jellies  should 
be  made  in  a  brass  kettle,  or  in  iron  lined  with  porcelain.  When 
brass  is  used,  great  pains  should  be  taken  to  keep  the  kettle  per 
i\  elly  bright  and  clean.  Jellies  are  best  kept  in  tumblers,  cups,  ot 
sinali  moulds.  The  vessels  should  not  be  quite  filled.  Letter 
paper  or  tissue  paper,  cut  to  fit  the  top,  should  be  wet  in  a  little 
brandy,  and  laid  on  the  jelly  in  the  mould.  Thicker  paper  should 
be  cut  of  a  little  larger  size,  and  pasted  with  the  white  of  an  egg 
over  the  tops  of  the  moulds.  Put  up  in  this  way,  the  jelly  will 
koep  for  years.     It  should  be  set  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Tc  know  when  jelly  is  done,  diop  a  teaspoonful  in  cold  water. 
If  it  drops  clear  frc  m  the  spoon,  and  becomes  of  a  proper  consist- 
ency, take  it  off  imirediately.  Should  it  unfortunately  become 
ropy  from  boiling  too  long,  it  can  be  used  to  a  very  good  purpos* 
<br  preparing  summer  drinks,  nectars,  water  ices,  etc. 


FRUITS,    ETC.  317 

820.  Apple  Jelly. — Use  apples  of  a  pleasant  acid.  Pee  and 
core  them,  and,  as  you  cut  them,  throw  the  pieces  immediately 
into  cold  water,  to  prevent  their  being  discolored  by  the  action  of 
the  air.  When  you  h^ve  prepared  as  many  as  you  wish  to  use, 
put  them  into  the  preserving-kettle,  and  pour  over  them  just 
enough  water  to  cover  them.  Cover  closely  with  a  plate,  and  let 
fciera  boil  without  interruption  until  the  apples  are  soft;  then 
strain  through  a  thin  linen  bag  into  some  vessel  that  can  be  kept 
oorered.  The  proportion  for  making  the  jelly :  To  two  tumbler? 
of  the  juice  use  one  tumbler  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar,  pulverized. 
Measure  the  juice  and  the  sugar  in  this  proportion,  and  put  into 
the  kettle.  Let  this  syrup  boil  for  a  few  minutes;  then  strain 
through  a  jellybag.  Return  to  the  kettle  two  tumblerfuls  of  th* 
syrup;  this,  boiled  to  the  proper  consistency,  will  form  one  turn 
blerful  of  jelly.  After  preparing  the  juice,  and  measuring  the 
proportions,  it  is  safe  to  make  the  jelly  thus  in  small  quantities. 

Quince  jelly  is  made  in  the  same  way.  Never  use  the  cores 
and  seeds,  as  the  effect  of  these  is  to  cause  the  jelly  to  rope. 

Strawberries,  blackberries,  raspberries,  and  grapes,  all  make 
very  pleasant  jellies.  After  washing  the  fruit,  put  it  on  to  boil 
without  any  water,  and  when  the  juice  is  all  extracted,  strain  and 
proceed  as  in  apple  jelly. 

821.  Crab  Apple  Jelly. — Wash  the  fruit  and  remove  the  stems 
and  all  defective  parts.  Cover  them  with  boiling  water,  and  let 
them  stand  until  the  watei  is  cold.  Put  them  in  the  Kettle 
cover  with  water,  and  turn  a  plate  closely  over  them ;  proceeding 
in  all  respects  as  in  the  apple  jelly,  excepting  that,  being  a  very 
acid  fruit,  they  require  equal  proportions  of  the  juice  and  sugar 
This  jelly  is  nice  to  serve  with  bake  3  or  roast  meats,  is  also  is  a 
jelly  made  from  the  wild  plum.  In  straining  the  juice,  never 
squeeze  the  bag  ;  only  take  that  which  runs  clear  for  rte  first 
quality  of  jelly. 


822.   Orange  Jelly.-— 'Use  large  oranges.     From  the  stem  end 


318  Mrs.   hill's   NEW  COOK   COOK. 

cut  a  piece  of  rind  about  as  large  as  a  ten -cent  piece;  insert  the 
handle  of  a  spoon,  and  with  this  remove  all  the  pulp.  Throw  the 
rinds  into  saltwater — they  make  an  elegant  preserve.  From  fhe 
pulp  remove  carefully  all  the  seed,  and  then  strain  cut  the  ju  ce. 
To  every  quart  of  juice  add  an  ounce  of  Cox's  sparkling  gehtine 
iissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water.  For  the  sweet  orange?,  use 
iugai  in  the  same  proportion  as  in  making  apple  jelly ;  for  boui 
oranges,  use  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  the  juice. 


PRESERVES,  ETC. 

Foe  n  a  king  preserves,  a  good  quality  of  fruit  should  ...  .*ay 
t<6  used,  and  good  sugar.  If  loaf  sugar  is  used,  it  will  not  require 
clarifying.  For  many  of  the  small,  dark -colored  fruits,  good 
brown  sugar  answers  very  well,  and  may  be  clarified  for  use  in 
this  way :  To  two  pounds  of  sugar  add  a  pint  of  water  and  the 
white  of  one  egg.  Stir  all  well  together  when  first  put  into  the 
kettle;  after  that  it  must  not  be  stirred.  Let  it  boil  until  the 
syrup  looks  clear,  carefully  skimming  off  the  dross.  Strain 
through  a  thin  muslin  cloth.  In  preparing  the  fruit,  it  should  be 
thrown  into  water  as  fast  as  peeled,  to  prevent  its  being  dis- 
colored by  contact  with  the  air.  The  usual  proportion  in  making 
preserves,  is  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  There  are  a 
few  fruits  which  require  more  sugar.  In  making  the  syrup,  use 
a  tumblerful  of  water  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  The  syrup  should 
always  be  boiled  and  strained  before  putting  the  fruit  in  it. 


823.  Oranges  Preserved  Whole. — After  removing  the  pulp  and 
juice,  as  in  the  directions  for  making  orange  jelly,  throw  the 
rinds  in  weak  salt  and  water  for  twelve  hours.  Then  take  them 
out  and  boil  them  in  clear  water  until  tender,  taking  great  cai>» 
not  to  break  them.  (The  more  full)  to  prevent  this,  but  tew 
should  be  boiled  at  a  time  during  the  whole  process.)  Tor 
making  your  syrup,  use  the  best  loaf  ^u^ar,  in  the  proportion  of 
a  pound  and  a  half  to  a  pound  of  the  fruit.  Put  the  sugar  in  :h« 
Kettle,  and  cover  with  cold  water.  When  it  has  boiled  sufficients 
fc>  form  a  thin  syrup,  pour  it,  boiling  hot,  ever  the  fruit,  ana  sol 
it  away  to  stand  twelve  hours.  Boil  again,  this  time  boiling  th^ 
fruit  for  about  half  an  hour.  Pour  the  syrup  over  again,  and  let 
rt  remain  twelve  hours.  Then  return  all  to  the  kettle  until  »he 
fruit  is  fully  penetrated  with  the  syrup  and  looks  clear.     Pat  up 


820  MR8.  dill's  new  cook  book. 

in  glass  jars,  and   should   the  syrup  appear  thin  after  standing 
several  weeks,  boil  again. 

Lemons  can  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 


824.  Citron  Preserves. — Take  the  citron  melon ;  if  not  verj 
large,  cut  through  the  melon  crosswise  in  slices  about  a  quart*.) 
t  f  an  inch  thick  ;  remove  the  outer  rind  and  the  seed,  and  noti  i 
the  edge  tastily.  If  the  melon  is  too  large  for  this,  cut  the  siica 
of  a  convenient  size.  After  preparing  the  slices,  soak  them  for 
twelve  hours  in  lime  water  (made  by  dissolving  two  hmdfuls  of 
lime  in  three  gallons  of  water),  changing  the  pieces  twice  from 
top  to  bottom.  Then  soak  in  clear  water,  changing  the  water 
twice;  then  scald  in  alum  water.  Now  place  in  the  bottom  of 
the  preserving-kettle  a  layer  of  grape  leaves,  upon  this  a  layer  of 
citron,  then  a  layer  of  the  leaves,  and  so  on  until  you  have  put  in 
all  your  citron,  with  a  layer  of  leaves  on  top.  Pour  in  enough 
water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  for  half  an  hour;  then  take  out  the 
citron,  and  plunge  into  cold  water.  Boil  again  with  the  lay  era 
of  grape  leaves,  and  plunge  again  into  the  cold  water.  Repeat 
this  several  times ;  then  boil,  for  half  an  hour,  in  a  moderately 
strong  ginger  tea. 

To  make  the  syrup:  Use  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  citron.  After  boiling,  strain  it  boiling  hot  upon  the 
fruit,  and  let  it  stand.  The  next  morning  boil  until  the  citron  is 
clear  and  tender.  Citron  should  never  be  eaten  until  it  is  at  least 
a  mon'h  old.  Watermelon  rind,  peeled  and  cut  into  fanciful 
thapes,  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way.  Musk  melons,  fulli 
rij  e,  are  sometimes  used.  They  should  be  cooked  without  soak 
big   removing  the  inside  soft  part  and  the  outside  rind. 


825.  Glass  Melon.  -Gather  the  melons  when  fully  grown,  bul 
Dtfore  they  tirn  yellow;  scrape  off  the  green  part  of  the  rind, 
and  cut  a  small  piece  from  the  stem  end  of  the  melon.  With 
the  handle  of  a  small  teaspoon  remove  the  contents  :  scald  there 
In  alum  water;  plunge  them  in  cold  water;  let  them  remain  unt*' 


PRESERVES,    ETC.  321 

eold.  Scald  them  again  in  fresh  water,  boiling  a  few  miiiUtes; 
pJunge  again  in  cold  water ;  repeat  this  four  times.  Make  a  th'm 
syrup,  allowing  one  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  to  a  pound  of 
the  melon.  Scald  the  fruit  in  this;  pour  all  into  a  tureen  of 
deep  covered  dish;  let  it  remain  one  night;  next  mornitg  retuixs 
*n  the  kettle.  Slice  one  lemon  to  two  poui  ds  of  citron;  iemovt 
he  seed,  and  boil  with  the  melons  until  they  are  tender. 


826.  Pineapple  Preserves. — Wash  the  fruit  and  boil,  without 
paring,  until  they  are  tender.  Take  them  out,  pare  them,  and 
slice  lengthwise,  so  as  to  remove  the  hard  centre.  Make  a  s\rup, 
using  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit;  pour  it,  when  boiling 
hot,  over  the  fruit,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  next  morning.  Then 
pour  off  the  syrup  from  the  fruit,  and  boil  it  until  nearly  thick 
enough,  when  the  fruit  must  be  put  in  and  boiled  in  the  syrup 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 


827.  To  Preserve  Strawberries. — Take  the  weight  of  the  straw 
berries  in  double-refined  sugar.  To  each  pound  add  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  water ;  boil  to  a  thick  syrup.  When  it  cools,  pour  it 
over  the  berries,  and  let  them  stand  all  night.  Next  morning 
boil  the  syrup  and  fruit  ten  minutes.  Repeat  this  process  for 
three  days  in  succession.  As  the  syrup  becomes  thinned  by  the 
acid  juice  which  exudes  from  the  strawberries,  there  would  be 
danger  of  fermentation  unless  re-boiled  as  directed. 

As  this  fruit  is  difficult  to  preserve  from  fermentation,  it  should 
be  put  up  in  air-tight  cans  or  in  small  jars,  «md  very  carefully  tied 
or  sealed  up.     Keep  them  in  \  cool  place. 


828.  To  Preserve  Raspberries  and  Blackberries. — J*  or  these 
ft-uits  use  an  equal  proportion  of  sugar.  To  each  pound  of  the 
tugar  add  about  a  wineglass  of  water,  and  boil  to  a  thick  syrup* 
Put  the  fruit  in,  and  let  it  boil  for  fifteen  minutes ;  take  it  out 
*ith  a  perforated  skimmer ;  spread  on  dishes,  and  let  them  stand 
la  the  sun.  When  the  syrup  has  boiled  to  a  proper  cousistenoj, 
14* 


£22  MR8.    HILLS    NEW    COOK    BOCK. 

put  tfie  fruit  in  small  jars,  wic  pour  the  syrup  over.  Seal  tightly 
Small  delicate  fruits  such  as  raspberries,  black  berrie  *5  etc.,  •'equir* 
very  little  cooking.  Long  boiling  impairs  their  flavor,  and  ren 
ders  them  hard. 


629.  To  Preserve  Cherries. — With  a  goose-quill,  sharpened  U 
t  pcint  as  for  a  pen,  remove  the  stones  from  a  part  of  the  fruit 
that  you  wish  to  use.  Prepare  a  syrup  in  the  same  proportioni 
as  directed  in  the  foregoing  receipts,  and  when  nearly  thick 
enough,  add  the  fruit,  and  allow  it  to  boil  briskly  for  thirty 
minutes ;  then  remove  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  let  the 
syrup  continue  to  boil  until  of  a  proper  consistency.  Then  pour 
over  the  fruit,  and  put  up  as  directed  in  preceding  receipts. 

The  reason  for  stoning  part  of  the  cherries,  is  that  the  seed 
contain  so  much  Prussic  acid  that  to  allow  them  all  to  remain 
would  impart  too  strong  a  flavor  to  the  preserves. 


830.  To  Preserve  Grapes. — Grapes  are  preserved  in  the  same 
way,  without  seeding  them.  Select,  for  preserving,  fruit  that  is 
not  entirely  ripe,  carefully  removing  all  that  are  defective.  The 
Scuppernongs  are  very  nice. 


831,  To  Preserve  Plums. — For  large,  fine  plums,  that  you 
wish  to  make  particularly  nice,  remove  the  skins  by  scalding 
them.  Make  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
one  of  fruit,  and  when  thick,  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  fruit, 
and  let  it  stand  until  the  succeeding  day.  Repeat  this  for  thiee 
successi  ve  days.  On  the  third  day  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  unti 
tfiey  are  done.  This  mode  of  preserving  is  preferred  on  account 
of  the  fruit  breaking  to  pieces  if  preserved  immediately.  The 
ooiling  syrup  poured  upon  them  hardens  the  fruit. 

Plums  and  damsons  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way  witfc 
the  skins  on,  and  are  very  suitable  for  tarts  and  tartlets. 


R32.   To  Preserve  Muscadines. — Wash  the  fruit  carefully, 


PRESERVES,    ETC.  323 

pulp  them.  They  are  prettier  with  the  seeds  removed,  but  the 
process  is  a  tedious  one.  Collect  the  j  iice  carefully  with  the 
pulps,  and  reserve  the  hulls  for  making  vinegar,  or  for  preserving 
%ith  brown  sugar  for  winter  pie?. 

Make   a  syrup  in    the   usual  proportion — pound  for   pound 
Put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  until  it  looks  clear. 


833.  Crab  Apple  Preserve. — Boil  for  a  «hort  time  in  clear 
water.  Be  careful  not  to  boil  too  long,  as  the  fruit  mashes  very 
easily.  Just  as  soon  as  they  are  soft  enough  to  admit  of  remov- 
ing the  cores  with  a  goose-quill,  push  them  out.  Soak,  for  one 
night,  in  weak  alum  water;  from  this,  soak  in  clear  water  for  two 
hours.  Make  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  one  and  a  half  pound 
of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit ;  put  the  fruit  in,  and  let  it  boil  until  it 
looks  clear.  Take  them  out,  and  if  the  syrup  is  not  thick  enough, 
continue  boiling  until  it  is  of  proper  consistency. 


834.  To  Preserve  Figs. — Take  the  fruit  when  not  quite  ripe 
Soak  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  weak,  warm  soda  water  to  re- 
move the  skin ;  or  peel  thinly  with  a  sharp  penknife.  To  one 
pound  of  figs  use  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  When  the 
syrup  is  made,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  let  it  boil  until  half  done ; 
take  them  up,  and  spread  on  a  dish,  and  put  in  the  sun.  Let  the 
syrup  simmer  slowly,  always  carefully  removing  any  impurities 
that  may  rise  to  the  surface.  When  clear,  put  in  the  figs ;  let 
them  cook  until  transparent,  taking  them  out  separately  when 
done.  Set  in  the  sun  again;  if  the  syrup  is  not  clear,  &'rim  again; 
do  not  let  it  boil  away  too  much.  Put  the  figs  in  jars,  and  when 
the  syrup  is  cold,  pour  it  over  them. 

The  small  kind,  called  the  Celestial  fig,  is  better  unskmnecL 


835  Preserved  Peaches. — Ir.  selecting  this  fruit  for  preserving, 
the  best  are  the  yellow,  freestone  peach,  before  it  is  quite  ripe, 
taking  care  they  are  yellow  throughout,  as  those  that  are  red 
next  to  the  seed. make  a  dark  preserve.     Peel  >hem.  and  out  m 


324  MRS. 

halves,  throwing  immediately  into  cold  water  to  prevent  theii 
turning  dark.  Weigh  the  sugar  in  the  pr<  portion  of  pourd  foi 
pound,  and  put  down  in  alternate  layers  to  remain  a11  night.  (It 
is  best  to  prepare  them  late  in  the  evening,  and  preserve  earl) 
next  morning.)  In  the  morning,  pour  off  the  syrup,  and  clarify 
Lj  using  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  quirt  of  juice.  Skim  while 
boiling,  and  strain  through  a  thin  cloth.  Put  in  the  fruit. 
Have  ready  a  few  peach  kernels  blanched,  and  put  in  with  the 
fruit.  Cover  lightly  witfe  an  earthen  plate,  and  let  them  simmer 
gently  until  the  peaches  are  clear,  removing  the  plate  occasion- 
ally to  turn  the  fruit  from  the  bottom.  When  done,  take  the 
peaches  up,  and  spread  on  dishes,  and  set  in  the  sun  half  an  hour, 
letting  the  syrup  continue  to  boil  until  thick  enough.  The  peach 
mentioned  in  the  beginning  of  this  receipt  is  the  variety  that  I 
prefer  for  preserving.  The  white  English  and  the  yellow  cling- 
stone are  also  very  fine  for  this  purpose.  In  cutting  the  fruit, 
take  care  to  have  the  slices  of  a  uniform  thickness,  or  the  thin 
ner  slices  will  boil  to  pieces  before  the  thicker  ones  are  done. 


83€>  To  Preserve  Quinces. — Wash  the  fruit;  peel  it,  and  as 
you  peel,  throw  in  cold  water.  Cut  in  slices  of  uniform  thick- 
ness ;  put  them  in  a  kettle,  and  cover  with  water ;  turn  a  plate 
over  them,  and  let  them  stew  until  tender.  Take  them  out,  and 
into  the  water  (allowing  a  tumbler  of  the  water  to  a  pound  of 
sugar)  in  which  they  were  stewed  put  the  sugar  in  the  proportion 
of  pound  for  pound.  Unless  loaf  sugar  is  used  the  syrup  will 
need  clarifying.  Skim  off  the  impurities,  and  when  the  syrup  is 
clear  put  in  the  fruit;  cover  again  with  the  plate  and  simmer 
gently  until  done.  Take  up  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and 
spread  on  dishes  to  cool.  Quinces  will  be  very  hard  unless 
tewed  before  the  sugai  is  added. 


837.  Pear  Preserver. — Throw  the  pears  into  water  as  you  peel 
them.  Remove  the  cores  or  rot  as  may  be  preferred.  Preserve 
axActly  as  you  would  quinces. 


MARMALADES,   JAMS,   ETC. 

It  pu*  up  in  small  quantities,  and  for  immediate  use,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit  is  sufficient;  but 
if  it  is  desirable  to  keep  them  longer,  a  pound  of  sugar  is  a  better 
proportion.     As  in  preserves,  the  best  sugar  should  be  used. 


838.  Orange  Marmalade. — For  this,  use  the  pulp  that  has  been 
removed  previous  to  preserving  the  rinds ;  carefully  pick  out  all 
the  seeds.  If  the  oranges  are  sweet,  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  is  sufficient  to  a  pound  of  fruit — for  the  sour  orange 
equal  proportions  will  be  required.  Mix  the  fruit  and  sugai 
well ;  add  half  a  tumblerful  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar,  and 
boil  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  a  great  deal  to  prevent  their  burn- 
ing. A  little  of  the  peel,  boiled  in  clear  water,  and  shredded  very 
fine  before  adding  to  the  mass,  gives  an  improved  flavor  to  this 
marmalade. 


839.  Apple  Marmalade. — Peel  and  slice  the  apples ;  weigh  and 
put  them  into  a  kettle,  and  stew  until  tender.  Mash  them  fine ; 
add  the  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  pound  to  pound.  Let  thera 
cook  slowly,  stirring  very  frequently.  By  no  means  allow  it  to 
scorch,  and  when  the  mass  has  a  jellied  appearance,  it  is  done. 
About  half  an  hour  will  generally  be  found  sufficient  for  making 
the  marmalade,  after  adding  the  sugar. 


840.  Quince  and  Peach  Marmalade — Are  made  in  the  same 
way.  They  should  be  put  up  in  tumblers,  or  very  small  jars. 
They  are  very  good  for  tarts  and  tartlets. 


841.  Strawberries.  Raspberries,  Blackberries  and  Grape*— AW 
make  nice  marmalade  or  jam. 


326  Mrs.   kill's  new  jock  book, 

842  Compote  of  Apples. — To  one  pound  of  fn.it>  peeled  and 
eliced,  add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  until  the  apples  can  be 
pierced  with  a  straw.  Take  the  fruit  out,  and  place  in  a  glasi 
or  other  deep  dish.  Add  to  the  sv  rup  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine 
to  3  pound  of  the  fruit,  and  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Pour 
•t  e.  the  fruit  when  cool  enough.  The  gelatine  is  not  absolutely 
lecessary,  but  it  is  a  great  improvement.  Oranges  may  be  dv*n 
.a  the  same  way.  Compotes  may  be  made  of  small  fruits,  such 
as  plums,  apricots,  damsons,  etc.,  without  peeling.  They  an 
delicious,  and  may  be  used  as  desserts,  served  with  cream  o* 
mock-cream  sauce. 


843.  Frosted  Fruit. — Select  perfect  fruit  of  any  small  variety, 
such  as  cherries,  plums,  grapes,  or  small  pears,  leaving  the  stems 
on.  Dip  them,  one  by  one,  in  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  or  is 
a  solution  of  gum  Arabic,  and  from  that  into  a  cup  of  very  finely 
pulverized  sugar.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pan  with  a  sheet  of 
fine  white  paper ;  place  the  fruit  in  it,  and  set  in  a  stove  oi 
oven  that  is  cooling.  When  the  frosting  on  the  fruit  becomes 
firm,  heap  them  on  a  dish,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 


844.  Apple  or  Gooseberry  Fool. — Put  the  fruit  in  a  stone  jar, 
with  a  good  quality  of  brown  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  half  a 
pound  to  a  pound  of  the  fruit.  Set  the  pan  on  the  stove,  or  in 
an  oven  of  hot  water.  Put  a  large  spoonful  of  water  in  the  bot* 
torn  of  the  jar  to  prevent  burning.  When  they  are  soft,  pass 
them  through  a  sieve.  Have  ready  one  teacup  of  new  milk,  the 
same  of  cream,  boiled  together,  and  left  to  cool.  Sweeten  the- 
mustard,  and  by  degrees  add  the  fruit.     Nice  dish  for  tea. 


845.  To  Bake  Apples  or  Quinces. — Core  them,  and  fill  the 
cavities  with  nice  sugar.  Sprinkle  the  outsides  with  sugar,  and 
to  a  large  dish  containing  a  dozen,  add  a  tumblerful  of  "water. 
Bet  them  to  bake  slowly.  They  may  be  served  with  meats,  ot 
as  a  dessert,  with  cream  sauce.     Use  them  cold. 


MARMALADkrS,    JAMS,    ETC.  321 

Pears  are  very  niee  baked  in  the  same  way;  but,  being  a 
rather  insipid  fruit,  it  is  best  to  squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  • 
lemon,  throwing  the  peel  into  the  water  that  is  added  to  them. 


846.  Stewed  Peaches. — Peaches  also  make  a  nice  de  sert,  bu 
a/e  better  stewed,  peeling  them,  and  removing  the  stones  or  rot* 
as  is  preferred.     These  methods  of  preparing  fruit  are  also  niea 
for  tea.     Serve  with  them  cream  or  mock-cream  sauce. 


847.  Candied  Orange  and  Lemon  Peel. — Remove  the  pulp  and 
inside  skin ;  cut  the  peel  in  strips  lengthwise ;  boil  in  clear  water 
until  tender.  Make  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  the  peel,  adding  to  the  sugar  as  much  water 
as  will  melt  it.  Put  in  the  peel,  and  boil  over  a  slow  fire  until 
the  syrup  candies;  then  take  them  out;  strew  powdered  sugar 
over  them,  and  set  in  the  sun  to  dry  ;  or,  if  the  weather  will  not 
admit  of  this,  dry  them  in  a  warm  oven  or  stove.  These  will  be 
found  very  useful  in  making  fruit  cakes  and  puddings. 


848.  Peach  Chips. — Peel  good  peaches,  not  too  ripe,  as  in  that 
case  the  chips  will  be  very  dark  when  dried.  Slice  the  peachet 
very  thin  ;  have  ready  prepared  a  syrup  made  in  the  proportion 
of  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and  water  enough  to 
melt  the  sugar  ;  the  syrup  must  be  very  thick.  Put  in  the  chips, 
and  scald  them  well.  Remove  them  with  a  perfc  rated  skimmer, 
and  dry  in  the  sun.  After  they  are  dry,  pack  closely  in  jari, 
sprinkling  finely  powdered  sugar  between  the  layers.  This  pre- 
paration well  supplies  the  place  of  raisins  in  making  fruit  pud 
dings,  and  plain  family  fruit  cakes. 


849.  Peach  Leather. — Peel  very  ripe,  soft  peaches ;  rnash  them 
fine,  and  strain  through  a  colander.  If  the  peaches  aie  not  very 
•weet,  add  a  little  sugar.  Butter  well  panes  of  glass,  and  spread 
the  paste  smoothly  upon  them.  Put  in  the  sun  to  dry ;  when 
dry  on  one  side.,  turn  it,  and  when  perfectly  dry,  roll  and  keep  in 


82&  iir8.  hill'b  new  cook  book. 

boxes.     When  not  convenient  to  use  the  glass,  batter  strips  o* 
cloth,  and  spread  upon  well-seasoned  boards. 


850  To  Dry  Figs. — Take  ripe  figs ;  dip  them  in  moderately 
strong  soda-water,  and  wipe  them.  Have  ready  a  syrup  made 
>f  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  the  fruit.  When  it  b 
thick,  drop  the  figs  in,  and  let  them  scald  well.  Take  them  up 
snd  place  then,  in  a  dish  with  the  stems  up.  With  the  bottom 
of  another  dish  or  plate  press  them  gradually  to  a  flat  shape 
sprinkle  them  with  fine  sugar,  and  set  in  the  hot  sun.  Turn  them 
with  a  knife,  and  sprinkle  again  with  sugar.  When  dry,  pack  in 
boxes  or  jars,  with  sugar  between  the  layers  of  figs.  M  the 
weather  is  damp,  dry  in  a  warm  oven  or  stove. 


851.  Tomato  Figs. — Use  thoroughly  ripe  tomatoes ;  pour  boil 
ing  water  over  them  to  remove  the  skin;  weigh  them;  place 
them  in  a  stone  jar,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  good  sugar.  I*et 
them  stand  two  days;  then  pour  off  the  syrup;  boil  and  skim  it 
until  no  scum  rises.  Pour  it  over  the  tomatoes ;  let  it  stand  *.m  o 
days ;  boil,  and  skim  again.  After  repeating  this  process  for  the 
third  time,  they  are  fit  to  dry,  if  the  weather  suits ;  if  not,  keep 
them  in  the  syrup.  They  will  dry  in  a  week.  Pack  in  boxes 
lined  with  white  paper,  putting  powdered  sugar  between  the 
layers  of  fruit.  Should  any  syrup  remain,  it  may  be  used  for 
making  common  marmalade,  or  for  sweetening  pies. 


852.  To  Dry  Citron  or  Watermelon  Rind. — After  preserving 
oiace  in  the  sun,  and  dry.  They  answer  well  in  puddings  and 
takes  as  a  substitute  for  the  imported  citron. 

853.  To  Dry  Cherries. — Stone  the  fruit,  and  scald  in  a  thick 
•?rup.  Dry,  ar  d  pack  them  away.  Grapes  may  be  done  in  the 
tame  way,  without  seeding.  These  are  very  ni:e  to  store  •  aray 
for  winter  use,  and  the  housekeeper  who  is  well  supplied  with 
■uch  articles  need  never  be  at  a  loss  for  a  dessert. 


HARMALADEfi,    JAMB,    ETC.  82* 

854.  To  Slnr  Dried  Peaches  and  Apples. — Exai  line  the  fruit 
mA\ ;  wash  well,  rubbing  it  through  the  harois.  I  [>ur  boiling 
water  over  it,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  water  cools.  Put  to  stew 
with  a  little  water  in  a  preserving  kettle,  or  a  stew-pan  lined  with 
tin  or  porcelaiii ;  the  latter  is  best.  Put  on  the  cover,  or  turn  a 
|late  lightly  over  it,  and  let  it  stew  until  soft.  Then  mash 
through  a  colander;  sweeten  to-  taste,  and  spice  with  tny thing 
preferred.  Be  certain  never  to  stew  fruit  in  an  iron  vessel,  nor 
•et  it  to  cool  in  tin. 


855.   TV  Save  Fruit    without  Sugar. — Put  in  wide-mouthed  ., 
bottles ;  fill  up  with  cold  spring  water.     Put  them  in  a  vessel  of  ■ 
water  up  to  the  neck;  boil  half  an  hour;  tie  bladders  or  oil-skiD 
over  tight,  or  cork  and  seal  while  hot.     Let  them  set  until  cold. 
Keep  in  a  cool  place.     Use  as  soon  as  opened.     Pack  hay  around  < 
while  boiling,  to  steady  them. 


85&£  Golden  Honey. — Put  five  pounds- of  sugar  and  two  pints 
of  water  in  a  kettle ;  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  remove  from  the 
■tove,  stir  in  well,  two  pounds  of  honey  ;,  strain  the  whole,  bottle, 
and  it  will  keep  for  years.     Good. for  fritters,  and  buckwheat. 


855f.  Quaker  Dish. — StDne  one  quart  of  ripe  cherries;  put 
a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a  clean  skillet.  Fry  when  hot, 
and  until  the  syrup  is  thick  >  adi  sugar  to  taste,  fry  a  ft  w  van 
ate*  longer. 


FOR  MAKING  CANDIES. 

866.  Sugar  Candy. — To  three  tumblers  of  good  br  rwn  eng&r, 
•dd  one  tumbler  and  a  half  of  cold  water,  one  tablesp^  *r.iul  of  good 
vinegar,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Boil  without  stirriug 
until  it  begins  to  rope.  To  pull  it,  begin  as  soon  as  it  can  be 
handled,  and  take  hold  of  the  mass  only  with  the  tips  of  the 
fingers;  pull  rapidly.  Use  no  grease  about  the  hands,  or 
▼ery  little. 

857,  To  Make  Ground  Pea  Candy. — Parch,  shell,  and  beat  the 
peas.  Take  up  the  candy  before  it  has  boiled  as  much  as  in  the 
first  receipt,  and  use  more  butter ;  stir  while  boiling.  When 
poured  out,  mix  in  the  peas.  Almonds  and  grated  cocoanut  may 
be  used. 


858.  Cocoanut  Candy. — Use  equal  quantities  of  loaf  sugar  and 
grated  cocoanut ;  add  enough  milk  of  the  cocoanut  to  moisten  the 
sugar.  Put  it  to  boil,  and  stir  almost  constantly.  When  the  candy 
begins  to  turn  to  sugar,  stir  in  the  cocoanut  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble. Pour  it  into  buttered  dishes.  Cut  while  warm  with  a  but 
tered  knife.     Parched  ground  peas  (beat)  may  also  be  used. 


859.  Molasses  Candy. — Half  a  gallon  of  West  India  molasses 
one  pound  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  the  juice 
of  two  large  lemons  (but  this  must  not  be  added  bo  tore  the 
candy  is  nearly  done) ;  add  the  rind  of  one  when  the  molasses  is  firs 
put  to  boil ;  stir  occasionally.  Boil  steadily  three  hours,  oi 
until  upon  cooling  some  on  a  plate  it  will  be  found  stiff  enougk. 
Pour  it  off;  pull  as  the  sugar  candy.  Flavor  with  ginger,  if  A  it 
preferred  to  lemon 


FOR    MAKING    CANDIES.  33 J 

860.  Toffie. — One  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  three  ounces  S  butter, 
Mid  ihe  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour; 
pour  into  dishes  slightly  buttered.  Cut  in  strips  with  a  buttered 
knife,  but  do  not  attempt  to  raise  them  until  cold. 

A  pound  of  thin  shelled  almonds  will  yield  half  a  pound 
*hen  shelled;  if  very  thick  shelled,  it  will  require  mc:e. 


861.  To  Make  Almond  Macaroons. — Half  a  pound  of  shelled 
almonds,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the  whites  of  three  eggs; 
twenty-fbur  large  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  a  wine- 
glass of  rose-water,  a  large  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mace  and  cinna- 
mon. Blanch  and  beat  the  almonds  the  day  before  they  are 
needed.  Beat  and  sift  the  spice.  Beat  the  eggs  stiff;  add  to 
them  gradually  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  until  all  is  in ;  beat 
hard;  add  the  spice,  dissolved  in  the  rose-water;  then  the 
almonds.  It  should  now  look  like  a  soft  dough ;  if  too  soft,  add 
a  few  more  almonds.  When  mixed,  take  a  little  flour  in  the 
palm  of  the  hand ;  take  up  a  small  lump  with  a  knife ;  roll  it  on 
the  flour  in  your  hand  into  a  ball;  flatten  it  slightly.  Have 
ready  a  long  shallow  tin  pan  buttered  ;  lay  the  macaroons  on  it 
as  they  are  formed ;  place  them  about  two  inches  apart.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  eight  or  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  pale  brown 
color.  The  top  of  the  oven  should  be  hotter  than  the  bottom. 
If  baked  too  much  they  become  very  hard,  and  lose  their  flavor 
if  too  little,  they  will  be  heavy.  They  should  rise,  and 
crack  open  somewhat.  Grated  cocoanut  iray  be  substituted  foi 
almonds. 


861  J.  Candy. — One  quart  of  molasses,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one 
good  tablespoonful  of  butter;  boil  half  an  hour  over  a  slow  lure; 
one  quart  of  ground  peas,  parched  and  shelled.  Boil  quarter  of 
an  hour ;  pour  into  shallow  dishes. 

861  f.  Taffy. — Fill  a  quart  boiler  with  sugar,  leaving  room  for 
It  to  boil ;  moisten  the  sugar  with  molasses,  a  heaped  teaspoon- 
ful of  butter;  the  juice  of  a  lemon.     Flavor  with  tuo  jied,  or 


TV,  CAN  FRUIT  AND  VEGETABLES. 

"The  chief  ager*  in  the  work  of  preservation  is  heat,  li  aftst 
(he  application  of  heat  for  a  certain  time  (by  which  process  l\n 
•ir  is  expelled)  the  article  be  sealed  up  hermetically,  it  will  re 
main  unchanged  for  an  indefinite  period." 

"  The  fruit  and  vegetables  should  be  canned  as  early  as  possible 
after  being  gathered. 

'■  How  to  know  that  the  can  is  hermetically  sealed  and  that  the 
contents  will  keep :  The  contents,  as  soon  as  they  cool,  wiV 
slightly  shrink,  leaving  a  vacuum,  and  the  top  and  bottom  of  th« 
cart  will  become  concave  from  the  pressure  of  the  external  air. 
This  shows  that  the  sealing  is  complete.  Set  the  can  in  a  warm 
place,  and  if,  after  four  or  five  days,  the  concave  condition  of  the 
top  and  bottom  remain,  all  is  right." 

Peaches  should  be  peeled ;  if  they  are  clear-stone,  halve  them ; 
if  cling-stone,  cut  in  slices  of  uniform  size.  As  you  cut  tnem 
throw  them  into  water;  first,  however,  weighing  them.  With 
sugar  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pound  to  a  pound  of  the  fruit, 
put  them  in  a  vessel,  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  alternate  lay  ere 
(seme  persons  prefer  less  sugar;  enough,  however,  must  be  used 
to  make  them  palatable).  Let  them  stand  until  all  the  sugar  ia 
dissolved.  Then  put  all  into  a  preserving-kettle,  and  let  them 
remain  until  the  fruit  is  thoroughly  penetrated  with  heat;  sav,for 
half  an  hour.  While  the  fruit  is  boiling  hot,  fill  the  cans,  and 
eeal  immediately. 

To  can  quinces  it  is  necessary  that  the  fruit,  after  being 
pared  and  cut  into  pieces  of  uuiform  size,  should  be  bo^ed  in 
clear  wate*  until  slightly  tender.  In  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled  (allowing  half  a  tumbler  to  a  pound  of  sugar) 
dissolve  sugar  in  the  pi  >portion  of  half  a  pound  to  a  pound 
of  the  fruit.     As  soon  as  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  the  syrup 


TO    CAN    FRUITS    AND    VEGETABLES.  53* 

Degins  to  boil,  return  the  quinces  to  the  kettle,  and  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Can  them  while  boiling  hjt,  sealing  imrwodi 
ately.     Pears  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

Smaller  fruits — raspberries,  strawberries,  blackberries,  cur 
rants,  etc.,  are  done  as  follows:  Pick  and  wash  the  fn.it,  care 
faUy.  and  weigh,  allowing  to  a  pound  of  fruit  half  a  pound  <A 
iilgar  or  Jess.  Put  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  alternate  layers  in  a 
▼easel,  and  allow  them  to  stand  for  one  hour.  Then  put  tliem 
In  the  preserving-kettle,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  While  boil- 
ing hot, can  and  seal  immediately.  Use  no  water;  they  yield 
•ufficient  juice. 

Corn,  peas,  and  ochra  should  be  boiled  for  half  an  hour  in  just 
•ufficient  water  to  cover  them.     Can  and  seal  while  boiling  hot. 

Of  course  the  corn  is  cut  ofT  the  cob  before  boiling.  Aapar 
agus  will  require  boiling  but  fifteen  minutes.  Tomatoes  should 
be  scalded  just  enough  to  allow  of  removing  the  skins ;  cher 
ooiled  for  half  an  hour  in  their  own  juice,  and  canned  boiling  hot 
[n  no  case  should  salt  be  added. 


8G2.  To  Brandy  Peaches. — Use  ripe  fruit — not  sufficiently  so, 
however,  to  be  soft.  White  English  or  yellow  peaches  are  the 
best  varieties  for  this  purpose.  Make  a  strong  soda  water,  using 
two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  soda  to  a  gallon  of  water.  Put  this 
into  the  preserving-kettle,  and  let  it  boil.  While  it  is  boiling, 
put  in  the  peaches  (previously  weighing  them),  only  three  or  four 
at  a  time,  turning  them.  Let  them  remain  long  enough  for  th» 
akin  to  be  easily  wiped  off  with  a  coarse  towel.  Rub  off  the 
akin,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  If  the  soda  water  becomes 
too  weak,  add  a  .itUe  more  soda.  Make  a  syrup,  using  a  pound 
af  sugar  to  a  pound  cf  fruit ;  put  the  peaches  in,  and  let  them 
icald  well ;  remove  them,  and  ouiitinue  to  boil  the  syrup  until  it 
tt  quite  thick.  When  the  peaches  are  cold,  put  them  in  jars,  and 
oover  with  peach  brandy,  and  let  them  remain  until  the  next  day. 
Pour  off  the  syrup  when  it  becomes  sufliciei  tly  thick.  Alter  the 
peaches  have  stood  for  one  night,  pour  off  the  bran  ly  ;  add  the 


334  MRS.    HILLS   NEW    COOK    BOOK 

Byrup  to  it ;  stir  well  together,  and  return  it  to  the  r  caches.  Tht 
juice  from  the  peaches  will  weaken  the  brandy,  and  it  may  I* 
necessary  to  add  more  in  the  course  of  about  two  weeks. 

No  spices  should  be  used  in  putting  up  the  fruit ;  but  after  the 
peaches  are  eaten,  the  liquor  may  be  spixd,  and  will  mak6  eicel 
Jtnt  cordial. 

Cherries,  plums,  damsons,  grapes,  and  pears,  re  all  g'od  pnJ 
tp  in  the  same  way.    The  pears  must  first  be  j   vied. 


WINES,  CORDIALS,  ETC. 

MS.  Grape  Wine. — The  grapes  should  be  gathered  on  a  dry 
alaar  day,  after  the  morning  dew  has  disappeared.  Pick  them 
carefully  from  the  stems,  selecting  only  ripe  and  perfect  fruit. 
Mash  them  thoroughly,  taking  care  not  to  bruise  the  seeds,  as 
that  would  impart  a  bitter  taste.  After  bruising,  let  the  mass 
remain  twenty-four  hours.  Strain  through  a  colander  or  sieve 
taking  care  that  there  is  no  grease  about  it.  Sweeten  the  juiofl 
(for  this  the  crushed  sugar  is  best)  until  it  will  float  an  egg  so  as 
to  show  about  the  size  of  a  twenty-cent  piece.  Put  into  jugs, 
filling  them,  and  leaving  the  mouths  unstopped,  reserving  a  bottle 
of  the  juice  to  replace  that  which  escapes  from  the  jugs  by  fer- 
mentation. When  fermentation  ceases,  pour  the  wine  olF  into  a 
large  bowl,  and  clarify  in  the  following  manner :  Wash  sand 
(half  a  pint  will  be  sufficient  for  five  gallons  of  wine)  until  th*» 
water  will  run  clear  from  it.  Beat  to  this  the  whites  of  four  eggs, 
and  stir  into  the  wine.  When  it  has  settled,  and  the  wine  looks 
perfectly  clear,  pour  off  carefully  into  clean  jugs,  putting  a  piece 
of  muslin  inside  of  the  funnel.  Cork  the  jugs  tightly,  and  set  in 
a  cool  place  where  they  will  not  be  disturbed  until  the  last  of 
October  or  first  of  November. 

A  few  days  before  bottling,  have  the  bottles  that  you  wish  to 
use  well-washed,  dried,  and  sunned.  Provide  new  corks.  Have 
everything  in  readiness  before  the  bottling  begins,  including 
xjment  for  sealing.  Strain  the  ^ine  again  into  large  pitchers, 
.a king  particular  care  not  to  turn  the  jug  back  after  beginning  to 
->i«ui  from  it,  as  it  stirs  up  the  *«diment  which  is  at  the  bottom 
of  ihe  jug.  Cover  inside  of  <«?  funnel  with  a  piece  of  muslin 
before  placing  it  in  t\*e  njouto  . X  the  bottle;  fill  the  bottle,  and 
•vrk  immediately,  driving  tne  corx  in  with  a  wooden  mallei  Of 


836  MRS.    HILL'S    NETS'    COOJC    BOOK. 

light  hammer.     (Never  use  old  corks.)     Cover  the  neck  of  the 
bottle  with  cem  int.     Keep  in  a  300I,  dry  place. 


804.  Muscadine  Wine. — Gather  the  fruit  ripe ;  bruise  them  with 
Nit  breaking  the  seed.  (The  Scuppernong  grape  makes  wine  ■  >f  * 
*ea  itiful  Champagne  color,  as  will  also  the  pulp  and  juice  cf  the 
muscadines  if  the  hulls  be  rejected.)  Put  the  mass  in  an  open 
reasel,  and  cover  with  a  cloth.  Stir  three  times  during  the  first 
twenty-four  hours.  Let  it  stand  two  or  three  days.  Draw  off 
the  liquor  clear ;  if  in  a  wooden  vessel,  bore  a  hole  near  the  bot 
torn,  and  draw  off  carefully,  passing  it  through  a  flannel  cloth  ot 
bag.  A  dd  sugar  until  it  will  float  an  egg  to  the  surface.  Pour 
into  a  vo-ssel  prepared  thus :  Melt  brimstone  in  an  iron  ladle,  and 
saturate  a  cotton  cloth  with  it.  Set  one  end  of  the  cloth  on  fire, 
and  put  it  into  the  cask ;  put  in  the  bung  lightly  until  the  rag 
is  nearly  consumed ;  then  drive  it  in  tightly.  After  the  cask  has 
remained  thus  for  two  or  three  hours,  pour  in  the  juice  ;  leave  out 
the  bung,  covering  the  hole  to  keep  out  dust  and  insects.  The 
cask  should  be  entirely  filled  with  the  juice,  and  added  to,  a  little 
every  day,  from  a  bottleful  kept  for  the  purpose.  Do  this  until 
It  ceases  to  ferment.  Then  drive  in  the  bung;  have  a  gimlet- 
hole  near  the  bung,  and  stop  lightly  with  a  peg  to  allow  the  gas 
to  escape.  In  three  weeks  drive  in  the  peg.  Examine  in  Decem- 
ber; pour  into  another  cask  similarly  prepared.  Repeat  thin 
eome  cold,  clear  day  in  March.  Bottle  when  clear.  When  a 
small  quantity  is  to  be  made,  use  jugs  as  in  the  receipt  for  grape 
wine. 


865.  Blackberry  Wine. — Use  ripe  berries.  To  every  gallop 
©f  the  fruit  pour  a  quart  of  boiling  water.  Let  them  stand 
twenty  four  hours.  After  that  time,  pour  off  the  juice  (pressing 
the  berries)  through  a  colander  into  another  open  vessel.  Strain 
again  through  a  flannel  or  Canton  flannel  bag,  and  to  every  gallon 
of  iuioe  add  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  good,  clean  sugar.     Stir  i* 


WINE8,    CORDIALS,    ETC.  33*7 

up  well,  and  put  into  jugs,  filling  them  entirely.  Add  a  Httl* 
more  juice  every  day,  from  a  bottleful  reserved  for  the  purpose, 
until  fermentation  ceases;  then  proceed  precisely  according  to 
directions  for  making  grape  wine. 


806.  Cider  Wine, — Fifteen  gallons  of  cider,  fresh  from  thi 
|>ress ;  to  each  gallon,  add  two  pounds  of  good  brown  sugar. 
When  the  sugar  has  dissDlved.  strain  the  mixture  into  a  clean 
cask.  Let  the  cask  want  two  gallons  of  being  full ;  leave  out  the 
bung  for  forty-eight  hours.  Put  in  the  bung,  leaving  a  little  vent 
until  fermentation  ceases ;  then  bung  up  tightly.  In  a  year  it  is 
fit  for  use.  It  needs  no  straining ;  the  longer  it  stands  upon  the 
lees,  the  better. 


867.  Tomato  Wine. — Let  the  tomatoes  be  fully  ripe.  After 
mashing  well,  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then  strain, 
and  to  every  quart  of  the  juice  add  one  pound  of  good  sugar. 
Let  it  ferment  again,  skimming  frequently ;  when  clear,  bottle. 
To  use  this,  sweeten  a  glass  of  water  to  the  taste,  and  add  the 
tomato  wine  until  sufficiently  acid. 


868.  Strawberry  Cordial. — To  each  quart  of  the  juice  allow  a 
pint  of  white  brandy,  and  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Let  it 
•tand  two  weeks.  Pin  a  piece  of  musl»u  in  the  bottom  of  a 
■ieve ;  strain,  and  bottle. 


869.  Blackberry  Cordial. — Pvl  very  ripe  berries  in  a  jar, 
•over  th^m  with  good  peaob  t-jan  3y.  Cover  well  with  oil-cloth  ; 
let  it  stand  a  week.  Strain  the  brandy  from  the  fruit.  Sweetea 
to  taste.  Add  spices — one  teaspoon  of  allspice,  one  of  cinna- 
mon, aiid  the  same  of  cloves  ;  do  not  beat  the  spices.  Pour  on 
the  sugar  as  much  of  the  liquor  as  will  dissolve  it ;  as  soon  as  it 
t*>ils  up,  pour  to  the  rest  of  the  liquor ;  mix  well,  and  bottle. 

Peach  cordial  is  good  mado  in  the  same  way,  only  cut  up  Um 
15 


33*  MRS.  iiii.l's  new  cook  book. 

peaches  and  scald  them  when  the  sugar  and  spices  are  scalded. 
Any  cordial  may  be  made  in  this  way. 


870.  Agraz. — This  is  the  most  delicious  and  refreshing  drir.k 
ever  devised  by  thirsty  mortal.  It  is  made  of  unripe  grapef 
|ounded,  loaf-sugar,  and  water  ;  strained,  and  frozen. 


871.  Muscadine  Cordial. — Pulp  the  muscadines.  A  few  of 
the  hulls  left  will  give  the  liquor  a  beautiful  color.  Let  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours.  Strain  it,  and  to  every  three  quarts  add  a 
quart  of  good  brandy.  Sweeten  to  taste  with  loaf  sugar.  Bot- 
tle, cork  well,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 


872.  Cherry  Bounce. — Stone  half  the  cherries  ;  fill  the 
half  full  of  the  fruit,  putting  down  a  layer  of  fruit  and  a  layer  of 
good  brown  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  fruit.  Fill  the  vessel  with  good  apple  oi 
French  brandy ;  tie  it  up  securely.  Let  it  remain  until  the 
cherries  look  a  pale  red ;  then  strain,  and  bottle.  Use  it  by  add 
ing  water  to  taste,  and  more  sugar  if  liked.  This  may  be  made 
in  a  jug;  should  be  covered  or  stopped  well,  or  the  brandy  v^  ill 
lose  its  strength. 

873.  Crab  Apple  Beer. — Boil  the  fruit  until  the  water  is  a 
pleasant  acid ;  strain  it.  To  a  gallon,  put  a  piece  of  yeast  cake 
an  inch  square.     Sweeten  to  taste.     Use  the  second  day. 


874.  To  Keep  Cider. — In  the  manufacture  of  pure  cider,  clean- 
liness is  absolutely  necessary  in  every  step  of  the  process.  Lei 
the  fruit  be  washed  clean ;  pick  out  all  unsound  ones.  I*et  the 
pi  ess  and  casks  be  clean.     Make  that  which  is  to  be  kept  in  cooJ 


WINES,    CORDIALS,    ETC  839 

weather.  Place  he  casks  in  a  cool  apartment.  Wlile  foe  fer 
mentation  progresses,  the  casks  should  be  full,  that  all  impurities 
owning  to  the  top  may  flow  over  through  the  bung-hole.  After 
active  fermentation  has  ceased,  the  cider  should  be  drawn  off 
from  the  settlings  into  other  clean  casks,  when  fermentation  will 
again  be  active  for  a  few  days.  When  fermentation  beg:.ns  to 
cease,  slarify.  Stir  to  each  barrel  two  ounces  of  isinglass,  or  the 
whites  of  four  eggs.  After  the  clearing  process,  which  will  be 
eilected  in  a  few  days,  take  of  the  sulphite  (not  sulphate)  of  lime 
a  quarter  of  ar  ounce  to  the  gallon,  which  dissolve  in  a  little  of 
the  cider,  and  thoroughly  mix  with  the  contents  of  the  cask. 
When  filled,  so  as  to  exclude  all  air,  drive  in  the  bung. 


875.  Cherry  Nectar. — To  four  pounds  of  the  fruit  washed  and 
picked  (stone  half  the  fruit)  put  three  tumberfuls  of  white  wine 
or  good  apple  vinegar.  Let  it  stand  four  days.  Strain  through 
a  Hoth,  and  to  a  pint  of  juice  add  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Boil  in 
'  porcelain  kettle  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  When  cold,  bottle  and 
cork  it;  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  To  use,  pour  a  tumbler  half 
full  of  the  nectar ;  add  a  few  pieces  of  ice ;  fill  with  very  cold 
water.     A  refreshing  summer  drink. 


87b\  Raspberry  Nectar. — Pour  over  two  quarts  of  ripe  rasp 
berries  a  quart  of  good  apple  vinegar.  Let  it  stand  until  the 
fruit  ferments;  then  strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  three 
quarters  o  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.     Simmer  twenty  minutes. 

Strawberry,  blackberry,  etc.,  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 
Use  by  half  filling  a  tumbler,  and  adding  ice-water. 

These  nectars  may  be  made  effervescing  drinks  by  adding  to 
tne  water  sufficient  soda.  Put  the  \inegar  in  the  tumbler;  ponr 
in  the  soda-water.  When  the  ^aste  of  the  fruit  is  not  distinat, 
pour  off  the  vinogar  and  pour  it  over  fresh  fruit.  Let  it  set  a 
day.  and  strain. 

877.  Lemonade, — Roll  half  a  dozen  large  lemons  well;   cut 


340  Mh».  will's  new  cook  book. 

them  in  thin  slices  (when  the  lemons  are  small,  use  eight) ;  put  • 
layer  of  sugar  (use  two  tumblers  of  crushed  sugar)  and  a  layei 
of  thi  sliced  lemons;  press  the  mass  slightly;  let  them  remain 
a  q muter  of  an  hour.  Pour  upon  the  lemons  a  gallon  of  cola 
v&ter.  Stir  them  from  the  bottom ;  add  more  sugar  if  not  swee 
enough.  Put  in  the  glasses  (if  convenient)  small  bits  of  ice,  am1 
pour  in  the  lemonade,  putting  a  slice  of  the  lemon  in  each  glass 
Orangeade  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  of  sour  oranges,  or  if 
sweet,  add  two  lemons  to  six  oranges.  Pomegranates  al»f 
make  a  pleasant  aoid  drink,  prepared  from  the  seed,  sweetening 
to  taste. 


878.  Sherry   Cobbler. — Dash    lemonade   with    Sherry   wine; 
add  ice. 


879.  Lemonade  an  Lait. — One  tumbler  of  lemon  juice,  the 
same  of  Sherry  wine,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  a 
quart  of  boiling  water ;  mix,  and  when  cold,  add  two  tumbles 
of  boiling  sweet  milk.  Strain  after  it  has  stood  twelve  hours. 
Seven  lemons  will  make  a  tumbler  of  juice.  Preserve  the  peel, 
and  dry,  or  infuse  them  in  strong  fourth-proof  brandy,  and  k^ep 
it  for  flavoring  cakes,  puddings,  and  sauces. 

880.  Cream  Beer. — Take  six  pounds  of  double-refined  sugar, 
four  ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  and  two  quarts  of  water ;  put  thia 
on  the  fire,  and  when  just  warm,  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth.  It  must  not  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  it  off 
through  a  thin  cloth,  without  squeezing.  Flavor  with  lemon 
Fettle,  and  keep  in  a  coo",  place. 

To  use  this:  Pour  mto  a  tumbler  tw:>  tablespoonfuls  of  thi 
■yrup;  fill  two-thirds  full  with  water.  Just  as  it  is  drurA,  sti- 
ll) half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


881.  Ginger  Beer  (superior). — To  six  quarts  of  water  add  ono 
ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  two  ounces  of  white  Jamaica  ginger, 
boil  it  ten  minutes.     Strain  it ;  aild  to  the  liquor  a  pound  of  loaf 


WINKS,    CORDIALS,    ETC.  341 

•ugar.  Put  it  on  the  fire ;  let  it  simmer  ur  til  the  s  Jgar  is  dis- 
solved.  Pour  into  an  earthen  vessel,  into  which  has  been  put 
two  ounces  of  tartaric  acid  and  the  rind  of  one  lemon.  When 
lukewarm,  add  half  a  tumbler  of  strong  hop  yeast.  Stir  all  wcl. 
together,  and  bottle;  tie  down  the  corks  tightly.  Vso  in  P 
few  days. 


882.  Ginger  Beer,  No.  2. — One  ounce  of  ginger  bruised  and 
boiled  in  a  gallon  of  water,  with  the  peel  of  two  lemons ;  boil 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Pour  out  in  an  earthen  vessel ;  when  cool, 
add  the  juice,  with  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one  pound 
and  a  half  of  good  sugar.  Add  another  gallon  of  cold  water,  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  stirred  in  when  the 
water  is  lukewarm,  and  half  a  tumbler  of  good  lively  yeast.  Let 
it  ferment  three  hours ;  then  bottle,  and  tie  the  corks  down. 


883.  Imperial  Pop. — Three  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  an  ounce 
of  bruised  ginger,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar,  half  a  tumbler 
of  lemon  juice,  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  water,  a  wineglass  of  yeast. 
Shake  well  together ;  bottle,  and  cork  well. 


884.  Spruce  Beer. — Three  gallons  of  boiling  water  poured 
upon  one  quart  of  West  India  molasses ;  mix  we^.  When  tepid, 
add  one  ounce  of  essence  of  spruce,  one  of  essence  of  winter 
green,  and  a  pint  of  yeast.  Let  it  stand  twelve  hours;  bottle, 
and  cork.     In  half  a  day  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 


885.  Ginger  Beer. — Boil  together  four  galkns  of  water,  one 
I  int  of  hops,  twenty  races  of  ginger,  beaten.  Boil  briskly  naif  an 
hour;  keep  the  vessel  covered;  strain;  sweeten  with  good  mo 
lasses.  When  tepid,  add  a  pint  of  brisk  yeast.  Cover  it  closely 
with  a  thick  cloth  until  morning;  then  bottle,  and  cork  tight, 
Scald  the  corks,  and  drive  them  in,  and  tie  down  with  twine 
Keep  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  be  ready  fo/  use  the  third  day 
Less  yeast  may  u.3cd  if  tne  t«ste  is  not  Uked. 


312  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  boor. 

88G,  Cheap  Beer.— -Two  tablespoonfuls  of  fulvt:ized  ginget 
one  pint  of  hop  yeast,  one  pint  of  molasses,  six  quarts  of  cold 
water;  mix  well,  and  bottle  immediately ;  in  twenty  four  hours  it 
may  be  used. 


887.  Corn  Beer, — Boil  a  quart  of  corn  until  the  grains  era  k 
Put  the  grains  into  a  jug,  and  pour  in  two  gallons  of  boil  nig 
water;  do  not  use  the  water  it  was  boiled  in;  add  a  quart  of 
molasses,  a  handful  of  dried  apples,  and  a  laige  tablespoonful  of 
ginger.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  two  or  three  days.  Jf  th<» 
weather  is  cold,  set  it  by  the  fire.  It  may  be  kept  up  several 
weeks  with  the  same  corn,  sweetening  the  water  before  pouring 
in  the  jug. 

888.  Persimmon  Beer. — One  bushel  of  sweet,  ripe  persimmons, 
mashed ;  half  a  bushel  of  wheat  bran.  Mix  well,  and  bake  in 
loaves  oC  good  size.  Break  the  bread  in  a  clean  barrel ;  add 
twelve  gallons  of  water ;  sweeten  with  molasses.  As  soon  as  the 
fermentation  ceases  it  may  be  bottled.     Make  in  a  warm  room. 

Another  way :  Use  the  fresh  fruit,  putting  on  the  bottom  of  a 
cask  a  layer  of  straw,  then  persimmons,  dried  apples,  the  honey 
locust  broken  up ;  a  little  wheat  bran  will  assist  fermentation  ;  re- 
peat this ;  fill  the  cask  with  warm  water.  Keep  it  in  a  warm  room  ; 
when  it  ferments  it  is  fit  for  use ;  draw  from  the  cask.  If  the 
weather  is  very  cold,  fermentation  may  be  hastened  by  putting 
hot  rocks  in  the  cask. 


889.  Orange  Syru}->. — Select  sweet,  thin-skinned  oranges ; 
squeeze  the  juice;  add  sugar  enough  to  make  a  thick  syrup. 
Boil  and  skim  until  clear.  Pour  off  when  clear,  and  when  cool, 
bottle.  A  tablespoonful  in  a  glass  of  water  is  delicious.  Flavor 
with  a  little  of  the  grated  rind ;  put  in  before  boiling ;  a  little  iq 
puddirg-sauce  is  good.  Lemons  may  be  prepared  in  th«*  same 
way.  Flavor  the  sugar  by  rubbing  lumps  upon  the  ouis  de  of 
the  fruit,  and  thcr  add  it  to  the  juice,  this  is  better  than  adding 
the  peel. 


WINES,    CORDIALS,    ETC.  3431 

890.  Lemon  Sponge. — Dissolve  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  it;  add  the  juice  of  three  lcinom 
when  the  water  is  nearly  cold  ;  rub  lumps  of  sugar  upon  the  out. 
§ide  of  the  lemons  until  they  absorb  the  oil  from  the  lemon  peel  \ 
*dd  this  tc  the  gelatine;  stir  well,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Stir  it 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  When  it  looks  lik 
•poiige-cake  batter,  put  in  moulds.     Eat  with  cream. 


891.  To  Make  Vinegar. — For  a  thirty-two  gallon  cask  jse  two 
gallons  of  molasses,  one  quart  of  yeast,  one  quart  of  *'  old  mother? 
three  ounces  of  tartaric  acid  ;  fill  the  barrel  with  rain  water.  In 
§ert  a  glass  bottle  in  the  bung-hole.     Set  in  the  sun. 


892.  Another  Way  to  Make  Vinegar. — One  quart  of  molasses, 
three  gallons  of  rain  water,  one  pint  of  yeast.  Let  it  ferment  and 
stand  four  weeks.  When  grape  or  muscadine  wine  is  made, 
pour  water  over  the  hulls  ;  let  it  stand  to  ferment;  strain  it ;  add 
a  tumbler  of  molasses  to  each  gallon  of  liquor;  put  it  in  jugs,  and 
after  setting  two  weeks,  drain  the  vinegar;  wash  the  jugs,  and  re- 
turn it.  Dip  coarse  white  paper  in  molasses ;  cut  it  in  strips, 
and  put  a  handful  in  the  jug,  unless  a  little  of  the  "  mother"  can 
be  obtained. 


893.  Apple  Vinegar — Is  made  by  adding  a  tumbler  of  molasse* 
to  two  gallons  of  hard  cider.  Draw  it  once  or  twice.  Good 
/inegar  may  be  made  by  pouring  water  over  honey-comb  after 
the  honey  has  been  squeezed  out,  taking  care  not  to  make  the 
water  too  sweet.  Let  it  set  several  days  ;  then  strain  it  u  to 
jugs,  and  set  in  the  sun.  Never  put  it  upon  the  ground  ;  alway 
elevate  the  jugs  &  little.  Add  paper  if  the  "  mother"  cannot  U 
obtained. 


893$.  Mead. — Boil  on©  pound  of  honey,  and  one  gill  of  water, 
ftkim  it  well.  Stew  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  of  all- 
spice in  a  little  water,  and  udJ  Lo  it.  When  milk-warm  add  a 
wineglass  of  good  ye»«U 


PICKLES. 

8M.  Hi j ion. — Take  equal  quantities  of  cabbage,  green  torn* 
toes,  and  white  onions,  and  half  the  quantity  of  green  pepper 
chop  them  fine,  without  bruising.  Put  them  in  an  earthen  ves 
eel — a  layer  of  the  vegetables,  a  layer  of  salt.  Let  them  remain 
half  a  day ;  squeeze  them  out,  and  pour  over  the  mass  weak 
vinegar.  Let  this  remain  twenty-four  hours.  Put  into  enough 
vinegar  to  cover  them  well,  a  seasoning  of  mustard  seed  washed 
and  soaked  half  an  hour ;  half  a  box  of  ground  mustard  to  a  gal- 
lon of  vinegar.  Tie  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  mixed  spices  to  season 
high,  and  black  pepper.  Take  the  vegetables  from  the  weak 
vinegar ;  put  it  in  the  jar  in  which  it  is  to  be  kept;  pour  over  the 
spices  and  vinegar ;  tie  the  jar ;  put  it  in  a  pot  of  water,  and  make 
the  water  around  it  boil  an  hour. 


895.  Sweet  Pickle. — To  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar  put  one 
gallon  of  vinegar ;  spice  to  your  taste ;  boil  all  together  a  short 
time,  and  set  off  to  cool.  Fill  a  jar  with  the  vegetables  or  fruits 
to  be  pickled ;  pour  the  vinegar  over  them  when  cool,  if  you 
discover  a  white  scum  on  the  surface,  pour  the  vinegar  from  the 
pickle  and  boil  again,  adding  a  little  more  sugar.  When  cool, 
return  to  the  jar.  Peaches  stuffed,  after  neatly  removing  the 
seed,  are  nice  made  in  this  way.  Figs  ripe,  but  not  soft,  aie 
good ;  so  are  cherries. 


Another  Sioeet  Pickle. — To  eight  pounds  of  fruit  put  fiv« 
of  sugar,  three  pints  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  allspice, 
two  of  cloves,  and  one  of  mace.  Make  the  syrup ;  pour  it  ovei 
the  fruit,  boiling  hot,  three  mornings  in  succession.  The  fouiti 
morning  put  them  on,  and  simmer  them  a  little. 


PICKLES.  349 

807.  Tomato  Pickle. — Take  tomatoes  two- thirds  ripe ;  prick 
them  with  a  fork  ;  put  them  in  a  strong  brine,  and  let  them  re- 
main eight  days.  Then  put  them  in  weak  vinegar  for  twenty -fom 
bom  s ;  remove  them  to  a  stone  jar.  To  one  gallon  of  the  tomatoes, 
add  half  a  pint  of  mustard  seed,  one  bottle  of  mustard,  on 
Oil  nee  of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  black  pepper  ground,  one  doze.i 
onions,  peeled  and  cut  into  slices.  Place  them  in  layers;  cove. 
the  wnole  with  strong  vinegar. 


898.  PickUd  Onions. — Peel;  boil  in  milk  and  water  ten 
minutes ;  drain  oft*  the  milk  and  water ;  pour  over  cold  spiced 
vinegar. 


890.  To  Pickle  Peppers. — Take  green  peppers ;  remove  the  seed 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  mangle  the  pepper.  Soak  twenty -four 
tours  in  salt  and  water.  Stuff  with  Higdon,  or  chopped  cabbage, 
highly  seasoned.  Put  them  in  an  unglazed  jar ;  pour  over  weak 
vinegar  boiling  hot ;  pour  it  off,  re-boiling  three  days  in  succes- 
sion, and  pouring  hot  over  the  peppers  at  the  end  of  that  time 
Pour  over  cold  vinegar  to  cover  the  pepper.  Tie  over  oil-cloth 
or  a  bladder. 


900.  To  Pickle  Cucumbers. — K  ep  them  in  salt  and  water 
three  days ;  then  wipe  them  dry  ;  jut  into  a  jar ;  put  in  spices, 
and  a  small  lump  of  alum ;  pour  over  scalding  vinegar.  If  a 
*hite  scum  rises,  pour  off  the  vinegar;  scald,  and  pour  over 
again.  Always  have  plenty  of  vinegar  to  cover  them  well. 
Cucumbers  can  be  kept  in  brine  for  a  year;  lay  grape-leaves  on 
top,  and  a  weight  to  keep  them  ur  der  the  brine. 


(.K)1  Mangoes. — Young  musk  melons,  peaches,  peppers,  large 
cucumbers,  are  all  nice  mangoei.  Cut  a  slit;  carefully  remove 
the  insides,  or  stones,  if  peaches.  Lay  in  salt  and  water  three  or 
four  days.  Then  stuff  with  Higdon  ;  put  the  edges  together;  ti* 
rfith  a  spring,  or  sew  up  separately  in  cloths.  Lay  in  a  btomj  jar. 
15* 


S46  Mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

the  cut  side  up.  Boil  sharp  vinegar  with  a  tabkspoonful  of  aldiM 
to  three  gallons  of  vinegar ;  pour  hot  over  the  mangoes.  Th« 
aluni  makes  them  firmer. 


002.  Cabbage  Pickle. — Quarter  the  heads,  and  sprinkle  pretty 
Ihickly  with  salt;  let  them  remain  about  twelve  hours.  Take 
tLem  from  the  salt ;  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry.  If  pre- 
ferred, cut  them  fine.  Put  them  in  a  jar,  and  pour  over  them 
cold  spiced  vinegar. 

903.  Mustard  Pickles. — Four  ounces  of  turmeric,  one  of  mace, 
one  of  allspice,  one  of  cloves,  two  bottles  of  English  mustard 
(large  size),  two  gallons  of  vinegar,  one  pint  of  mustard  seed. 
Let  all  together  just  come  to  a  boil.  When  cold,  put  into  a  jar, 
and  keep  them  stirred.  The  older  they  are  the  better.  To  pre* 
pare  cabbage  for  pickling :  Put  the  cabbage  in  very  strong  salt 
and  water  for  three  days ;  take  them  out,  and  sun  them  for  three 
days,  turning  them  frequently.  Then  pour  boiling  water  over 
them,  and  wring  them  out  in  a  clean  towel.  They  are  then 
ready  to  be  dropped  in  the  atove  pickle.  Spices  should  b« 
pounded  and  put  into  a  muslin  bag. 


904.  Green  Tomato  Pickle. — One  peck  of  green  tomatoes 
sliced;  one  dozen  onions  sliced;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  them 
stand  until  the  next  day ;  then  drain  them.  Use  the  following  as 
spices :  one  box  of  mustard,  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  one 
ounce  of  whole  cloves,  and  one  ounce  of  white  mustard  seed 
Alternate  layers  of  tomatoes,  onions,  and  spices.  C*  ver  with 
vinegar.  Wet  the  mustard  before  putting  it  in.  Boil  the  whole 
twenty  minutes. 


905.  Mixed  Pivkle — To  each  gallon  of  the  strongest  vinegai 
ftdd  four  ounces  of  flour  of  mustard,  three  ounces  bruised  ginger, 
two  of  turmeric,  half  a  pound  of  peeled  eschalots  slightly  baked  it 
an  oven,  two  ounces  of  garlic  prepared  in  the  same  manner,  • 


P1CHLE8.  341 

quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt,  and  two  drachms  of  Cayenne  pepper 
Put  these  ingredients  into  a  stone  jar;  crowd  very  closely  ;  place 
near  the  fire  for  three  days,  shaking  up  occasionally.  It  will  thee 
be  ready  for  the  vegetables.  Before  putting  the  vegetables  into 
the  vinegar  they  must  be  kept  in  brine  three  days,  and  then  driod 
fn  the  sun — small  cucumbers,  button  onions,  cauliflower,  beans 
peppet  etc. 

906.  Walnut  Pickle. — Take  one  hundred  nuts  when  just  soft 
enough  to  be  pricked  through  the  kernel  with  a  needle,  one  ounce 
of  cloves,  one  of  allspice,  one  of  nutmeg,  one  of  black  pepper 
(whole),  one  of  ginger,  the  same  of  horseradish  cut  up  fine,  half 
a  pint  of  mustard  seed,  and  four  heads  of  garlic  tied  in  a  bag 
Wipe  the  nuts ;  prick  them  with  a  fork  or  coarse  needle ;  pack 
them  in  a  jar,  sprinkling  the  spices  between  the  layers.  Add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  salt  to  vinegar  enough  to  cover  the  walnuts. 
Boil  it  and  pour  hot  over  the  nuts  in  the  jar,  and  cover  with  an 
oil-cloth  or  something  that  will  preserve  the  strength  of  the  vine- 
gar.  Keep  a  year  before  using.  The  vinegar  from  it  makes  ex 
cellent  catsup. 

907.  Chow. — Horseradish  grated  fine,  two  cups ;  \  teaspoon 
ful  of  turmeric,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seeds,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  mustard  seed; 
vinegar  to  cover  it.  Some  persons  use  the  horseradish  without 
the  addition  of  anything  except  loaf  sugar  and  vinegar  enough  to 
acidulate  it  pleasantly.  Packed  in  very  small,  wide-mouthed 
bottles  and  well  corked,  it  keeps  well.  November  is  the  proper 
incLth  to  make  it.  Then  new  beds  may  be  set  from  the  small 
r>ots  that  will  not  answer,  for  grating.  The  tops  cut  closely 
having  a  few  eyes,  will  also  answer  for  planting. 


908.  Cabbage. — Shred  the  cabbage,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let 
It  lie  two  or  three  hours;  shake  off  all  loose  salt;  put  a  layer  of 
cabbage,  one  of  grated  horseradish,  celery  seed,  a  little  green  pjp 


M8  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

per,  allspice,  and,  if  liked,  a  little  turmeric  to  give  the  pickle  • 
yellow  tinge.  Add  another  layer  of  cabbage  until  all  is  disposed 
of.     Cover  with  cold  vinegar.     Scald  this  if  disposed  to  mould. 


909.  Artichokes. — Scrape  well ;  soak  a  few  hours  in  cold  watPi 
{suited).  Spice  vinegar,  adding  coriander  seed,  mace,  mustard 
eced,  black  pepper,  allspice,  and  a  few  cloves.  Pour  this  over  the 
artichokes  boiling  hot.     Cover  well. 


910.  Green  Tomato  Sauce. — One  quart  of  green  tomatoes  cut 
up  fine,  a  small  onion  shred  fine,  a  tumbler  of  good  brown  sugar- 
one  of  vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  allspice,  and  cloves  to  taste.  Boil 
to  a  jam,  stirring  frequently.  It  must  not  scorch.  An  excellent 
gauce  for  fresh  meats.     Keep  in  small  jars. 


910£.  Imitation  Horse- Radish  Pickle. — Wash  and  peel  a  large 
gweet  potato,  grate  it  and  season  with  mustard,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  same  of  black,  a  little  pinch  of  red  pepper,  one  tea- 
Bpoonful  of  mustard,  half  a  teacup  of  vinegar;  rub  these  well 
together  and  pour  over  the  potato. 


910}.  Td  Color  Pickle  Green. — Scald  in  salt  and  water ;  tf 
one  gallon  of  water,  two  pounds  of  salt.  Let  this  remain  ovei 
the  picklo  three  hours;  then  pour  eff,  and  scald  with  hot  vine- 
gar.    Let   !>his  stand  three  days.     Pour  oif.  *nd  sedd  in  fret) 

vinegar.  j 


COFFEE,  TEA,  ETC. 

To  have  this  popular  beverage  in  perfection;  several  points  r% 
t^ire  attejA.cn.  First,  the  coffee  must  be  of  good  quality,  un 
ftdulterated.  Nothing  is  better  than  old  U.  S.  Java.  Micha  ii 
»  superior  coffee — dearer  than  any  other.  When  a  good  arti/ie 
is  found,  it  is  best  to  buy  by  the  quantity ;  age  improve  it  if 
carefully  kept.  A  box  of  seasoned  wood  answers  the  purpose. 
It  should  be  elevated  a  few  iivi.es,  that  ur^ier  it  may  be  kept 
clean  as  well  as  around  it.  Coffee,  before  and  after  toasting, 
readily  absorbs  any  disagreeable  taste  or  odor  with  which  ft 
comes  in  contact.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  wash,  pick  out  all 
foreign  substances,  and  dry  well,  several  pounds  at  once.  K^ep 
in  a  well-covered  jar.  But  in  toasting  it  is  different.  Use  a 
small  quantity.  It  is  best  to  toast  only  what  is  needed  for  the 
occasion.  Very  few  persons  like  the  trouble  of  doing  this,  but  it 
certainly  compensates.  The  grains  must  be  of  a  uniform  dark 
brown  color  from  the  surface  to  the  centre.  A  roaster,  such  as 
is  in  very  general  use,  answers  the  purpose  much  better  than  an 
open  vessel.  The  grains  should  be  constantly  agitated  to  be  of  a 
uniform  color.  When  the  toasting  is  half  accomplished,  fui  a 
pound  Jrop  in  an  even  teaspoonful  of  butter.  When  roasted 
iufficicntiy,  glaze  it;  shut  it  up  in  a  close,  well-covered  vessel  (glasa 
Ii  best) ;  keep  it  in  a  clean,  cool  place ;  grind  as  needed,  neither  too 
fine  ner  coarse.  CofTee  should  not  set  after  the  boiling  Is  com* 
pleted.  It  loses  every  moment  some  of  its  deligntful  aroma. 
The  coffee-boiler  should  always  be  kept  clean,  well-scalded,  and 
sunned  after  each  boiling.  It  is  the  practice  of  slovenly,  carclbJi 
cooks,  to  leave  the  grounds  from  time  to  time  in  the  boiler,  and 
whtn  the  vessel  is  needed,  empty,  and  hastily  rinse  it,  leaving 
much  of  the  former  contents  adhering  to  the  sides..  The  result 
of  *ach  management  is,  that  the  coffee,  ii  stead  of  being  the  deli- 


360  MRS.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

cio'isly  exhilarating  drin*  it  may  be,  is  flat,  insipid,  muddy,  and 
absolutely  pernicious.  Even  when  the  boiler  is  in  perfect  ordei 
for  receiving  the  cofo*  it  should  be  well-scalded.  To  make  th* 
coffee  :  Pour  in  boiling  water,  exactly  the  quantity  needed  allow- 
rag  a  pint  for  every  two  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh-ground 
*>tfe<i;  add  a  teaspoonful  jf  the  white  of  an  egg  to  this  quantity 
[t<  o  much  egg  injures  the  coffee)  ;  use  enough  cold  water  to  make 
thi>  coffee  into  a  paste ;  stir  this  into  the  boiling  water.  Never 
fill  the  boiler  so  full  of  water  as  to  allow  no  room  for  the  coffee 
to  swell.  As  it  swells  it  will  be  very  apt  to  boil  over  unles9 
watched;  remove  the  boiler  a  moment  from  the  fire;  scrape 
down  on  the  inside.  Boil  very  briskly  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Take  the  boiler  from  the  fire ;  pour  in  half  a  teacup  of  cold 
water ;  let  the  coffee  settle  five  minutes.  When  the  boiler  is  first 
put  on  the  fire,  fill  the  coffee-pot  or  urn  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served,  with  boiling  water.  When  the  coffee  has  settled,  and  is 
ready  for  the  table,  pour  out  the  boiling  water  carefully,  and  im- 
mediately pour  in  the  coffee  on  the  grounds,  being  particular  not 
to  disturb  them.  Serve  without  delay,  using  good,  rich  cream, 
and  good  sugar.  (Stir  these  together;  pour  in  the  coffee.) 
Where  sweet  cream  cannot  be  procured,  a  slight  acidity  may  be 
corrected  by  using  a  little  soda ;  it  should  be  used  very  cautiouslyi 
or  the  quality  of  the  beverage  will  be  affected.  The  next  best  to 
sweet  rich  cream  is  to  boil  fresh  sweet  milk,  using  it  very  hot. 

A  very  good  drink  for  children  may  be  made  by  re-boiling  the 
grounds  with  sufficient  sweet  milk. 


Oil.  To  Make  Coffee  by  Filtering. — Procure  a  percolator; 
jike  out  all  the  inside  machinery ;  scald  it;  allow  four  ounces  of 
ground  coffee  to  a  quart  of  water;  put  this  in  the  bottom  of  th6 
vessel ;  add  a  small  piece  of  isinglass  or  skin  of  cod  fish  (these 
answer  for  clarifying  when  eggs  are  scarce),  half  an  inch  square 
is  pufficient  for  a  quart  of  water ;  replace  the  strainers ;  pour  it 
boiling  water ;  set  the  percolator  where  it  will  keep  hot  with 
out  boiling  until  the  water  drips  through ;  pour  a  little  into  a  dp, 


COFFEE,    TEA,    ETC.  85 J 

*4jd,  if  not  satisfactorily  strong,  pour  the  coffee  out,  and  again 
pour  into  the  wtusel,  and  let  it  drip  through  the  second  time. 
Sen  »  as  scon  an  ready. 

912.  Or  ten  £lc*. — There  is  no  better  way  of  extractirg  tho 
*  spiritual  part"  of  the  essence  of  the  leaves  than  this :  Scald  the 
pot  in  which  the  tea  is  to  be  drawn.  Pour  in  as  much  boiling 
water  as  will  be  required ;  use  for  one  teacup  and  a  half  of  water 
a  heaped  teaspoonfid  of  tea,  this  is  a  good  proportion  if  the  tea  is 
strong  and  good.  Sprinkle  the  dry  tea  leaves  over  the  surface  :>f 
the  water;  set  it  where  it  will  keep  hot;  when  the  leaves  fall  to 
the  bottom  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  Use  loaf  sugar,  and  when 
cream  is  used,  add  it  last.  If  to  be  served  in  a  different  pot, 
scald  it  well.  It  should  be  hot  when  the  infusion  is  poured  in. 
To  replenish,  keep  a  covered  mug  with  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  • 
of  tea,  half  filled  with  bo'ling  water.  When  the  first  supply  ,,f" 
exhausted,  pour  the  tea  from  the  mug  into  the  tea-pot ;  add  at 
much  boiling  water  as  is  needed. 

Another  way :  Scald  the  tea-pot ;  put  in  the  tea ;  add  a  turn 
blerful  of  boiling  water ;  set  it  where  it  will  keep  hot ;  after  ten 
minutes,  add  as  much  water  as  will  be  required ;  this,  of  course, 
will  depend  upon  the  number  of  the  tea-drinkers.  Draw  some 
to  the  covered  mug  as  a  reserve. 


913.  Black  Tea — Is  best  boiled  five  or  six  minutes.  Use  a 
little  larger  quantity  of  leaves,  as  they  are  lighter  than  the  green. 
Bcme  persons  prefer  the  two  kinds  mixed  ;  it  makes  a  pleasant 
beverage.  Use  only  the  best  teas.  Souchong  is  considered  the 
best  black ;  the  Hysons  are  the  best  green  teas  ;  Pearl  and  Impe- 
rial Gunpowder  are  very  fine.  Good  tea  has  an  agreeable  odor. 
Keep  it  well  protected  from  the  air. 


914.  Chocolate. — Grate  it  fine.  Allow  two  heaped  tablespoon* 
fals  to  a  pint  of  fluid  ;  this  should  be  half  milk,  hilf  water,  but 
not  mixed.     W«Jt  the  grated  chocolate  to  a  smooth  paste;  boil  fl 


852  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

five  minutet  in  the  water,  then  add  the  same  quantity  of  swott 
unskimmed  milk ;  flavor  with  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Serve  ? ery 
hot 


f>15.  German  Chocolate. — To  a  quart  of  unskimmed  swecf 
milk  use  two  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate.  Mil  tc 
a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  water.  Boil  the  milk.  Just  a* 
it  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  chocolate  paste,  stirring  it 
well  with  a  wooden  or  silver  spoon.  Let  this  boil  five  minutes 
Pour  it  off  when  it  cools  until  only  hot  (not  boiling) ;  pour  it 
gradually  to  two  well-beaten  eggs,  stirring  constantly.  Returi 
it  to  the  fire  until  hot,  and  serve  immediately.  A  stick  of  cinna 
mon  may  be  boiled  in  the  milk.     Season  to  taste. 


916.  To  Mill  Chocolate. — A  chocolate-mill  somewhat  resem 
.es  an  ice-water  pitcher.  The  handle  of  a  round  stick  is  passed 
up  through  the  lid  of  the  mill,  fitting  loosely.  The  bottom  of  the 
stick  is  wheel-shaped.  Take  the  top  of  the  stick,  which  should  lie 
several  inches  above  the  lid,  between  the  hands,  and  turn  it  back 
and  forth  rapidly  until  thero  is  a  rich  froth  upon  the  chocolat* , 
Serve  hot. 


916J.  Chocolate — A  Nun's  Receipt. — "  If  you  want  a  for©- 
baste  of  paradise  in  the  guise  of  good  chocolate,"  said  she,  u  ba 
sure  and  make  it  over  night  in  an  earthen  tea-pot.  Its  standing 
Btill  at  night  concentrates  it  and  gives  it  a  velvety  taste,  which  it 


9U>}. — One  of  the  most  refreshing  summer  drinks  is  iced  tea. 
Boil  'he  tea  in  the  morning  in  an  earthen  tea-pot,  add  the  ica 
when   used.     Sugar  to  taste,  with  or  without  cream ;  best  wita* 

1 


THE    DAIRY. 

017.   To  Milk. — No  animal  better  repays  *ind  and  jenerott 
tieatrnent  than  the  cow.     In  winter  she  should  be  well  housed, 
Mid  a  sufficient  quantity  of  dry  straw  provided  for  a  litter,  and 
this  changed  occasionally.     Regular  and   proper  feeding.     She 
■hould  be  curried  and  rubbed  with  the  same  care  bestowed  upoc 
the  horse.     How  rarely  anything  of  the  kind  is  done!     The  mis- 
erable, half  frozen  condition  of  this  valuable  animal  during  the 
cold  weather,  without  shelter  of  any  kind,  turned  loose  to  pick 
up  a  precarious  and  scanty  living,  or  only  supplied  with  a  few 
dry   shucks  thrown  upon    the  ground,  perchance  a  little  dirt- 
slop  water,  is  a  reproach  to  the  master.     The  quality  and  qu 
tity  of  milk  and  butter  which  would  be  yielded  when  well  treated 
is  of  itself  (it  would  seem)  an  irresistible  argument  in  favor  ot 
providing  liberally  for  her  comfort,  to  say  nothing  of  her  mute 
appeals  to  man's  humanity. 

918.  To  Feed  in  Winter. — There  should  be  a  boiler  (the  size 
depending  upon  the  number  of  cows  kept)  fixed  upon  a  furnace ; 
a  shelter  over  the  furnace.  Arrange  the  location  so  as  to  have 
it  as  near  as  may  be  to  water,  and  the  place  where  the  animal  is> 
fed.  It  is  better  on  account  of  convenience  to  put  the  furnace 
where  a  trough  can  be  attached  ;  the  food,  when  cooked,  put  into 
the  trough,  and  when  cool  it  may  be  covered  until  the  i  egulai 
not  r  for  feeding,  and  then  drive  the  animal  to  the  trough.  Peas, 
pumpkins,  corn  meal,  potatoes,  beets,  carrots,  turnips,  are  all 
good  articles  of  food  for  cows  ;  add  shucks  stripped  in  smaM  pieces 
(they  are  better  for  being  soaked),  a  little  salt.  Boil  in  clear 
water.  Any  fragments  of  vegetables  from  the  kitchen  may  be 
added  clean.  Turnips  should  be  used  sparingly;  'hey  impart  a 
disagreeable  taste  f>  the  milk.     Given  barley    /atr  in  the  spring, 


864  MR8.   hill's  new  cook  boor. 

shou.d  be  provided.  Rye  gives  a  rich  color  to  the  milk  and 
butter,  but  injures  the  taste  of  be  th.  This  may  in  part  be  cor 
rected  by  salting  the  corn  well.  A  patch  of  wheat  should  ba 
ready  tc  succeed  the  barley.  By  the  time  these  are  exhausted, 
the  natjral  grasses  appear,  affording  pasturage,  Boiled  koi 
ihould  not  be  discontinued,  but  may  be  given  in  reduced  quant: 
ties.  When  cows  are  driven  to  and  from  their  pastures,  it  should 
be  done  by  a  steady,  careful  person ;  racing  them  at  the  top  of 
their  speed,  as  is  usually  the  case,  injures  the  milk.  They  should 
be  milked  under  shelter  in  bad  weather.  The  milker  should  treat 
her  charge  kindly,  gently,  and  soothingly,  and  perform  the  work 
as  quickly  as  possible  to  do  it  thoroughly.  Strip  the  teats  closoly , 
there  lies  the  cream.  Leave  one  or  more  teats  for  the  calf,  do- 
pending  upon  its  age.  When  large  enough,  let  it  feed  with  its 
fher.  Great  care  should  be  used  to  keep  the  milk  clean.  The 
.ker  should  provide  herself  with  plenty  of  water  to  wash  the 
dder  well,  and  then  wipe  clean  and  dry  with  a  clean,  coarse 
towel,  kept  for  this  purpose.  Tie  a  thin  cloth  over  the  bucket 
into  which  the  milk  is  poured  as  soon  as  it  is  milked.  Use  a 
smaller  vessel  for  receiving  the  milk  as  it  is  drawn  from  the  cow. 
When  the  milking  is  completed,  take  it  to  the  dairy.  Drive  the 
cow  and  calf  to  their  food.  Have  plenty  of  boiling  water ;  scald 
the  pans  (which  should  be  broad  and  shallow).  When  hot,  pour 
out  the  water,  and  immediately  strain  the  milk  into  them.  Re- 
serve in  a  small  vessel  sufficient  to  afford  cream  for  coffee  and 
tea.  Into  another  vessel  pour  what  is  intended  for  the  table. 
Stir  it  until  all  the  animal  heat  is  exhausted.  In  separate  vest-eu 
pat  what  is  intended  for  the  churn.  The  cream  h  tended  for  the 
chum  should  never  be  touched  until  removed  for  that  purpose. 


919.  For  Churning, — In  winter,  the  cream  nay  stand  tw; 
days.  In  summer,  it  should  be  churned  eveiy  morning,  as  early 
as  rcssible.  In  winter  it  is  a  good  plan  to  reserve  a  part  of  the 
outtcrmilk  from  time  to  time,  and  add  it  to  the  iVesh  cream  U 
turn  it.     The  churn  should  be  placed  where  it  will  have  a  aum 


THE    DAIRT.  35ft 

mer  temperature,  or  fifty-five  degrees  (Fahrenheit's  thermometer). 
Greater  heat  than  this  gives  the  butter  a  white  spongy  look , 
Scald  the  churn  well  in  every  case  before  putting  in  the  cream, 
When  the  churn  is  prepared  at  night,  add  a  portion  of  thtf  night's 
milking  to  the  cream;  shake  them  well  together.  The  buuoi 
milk  is  better  than  when  only  cream  is  used.  The  cream,  when 
taken  from  the  pans,  may  be  put  in  a  covered  jar,  and  sligh;  y 
salted,  where  the  buttermilk  is  not  used  as  a  drink.  The  sream 
will  keep  better,  but  the  salt  would  injure  the  buttermilk.  The 
churning  should  be  done  with  a  steady,  regular  motion.  In  very  cold 
weather  set  the  churn  in  a  tub  of  warm  water,  which  will  keep  the 
milk  at  the  proper  temperature;  add  more  hot  water  if  needed 
In  very  warm  weather  set  the  churn  in  a  vessel  of  cold  water. 
The  milk  should  be  kept  at  an  equable  temperature.  For  a 
small  churning  a  stone- ware  jar  is  best,  with  a  wooden  cover,  and 
a  dasher — the  handle  running  through  the  hole  in  the  lid  or 
It  should  be  unglazed.  The  stone- ware  is  much  more  e 
cleansed  than  the  wooden. 

When  the  process  of  churning  is  complete,  pour  in  a  tumblei 
ful  of  cold  water ;  this  hardens  the  butter,  and  makes  it  easier  to 
collect.  Have  a  pan  or  bowl  of  cold  water  ready ;  put  the  but- 
ter  into  it  as  it  is  taken  from  the  churn.  Work  the  buttermilk 
out;  cover  it  again  with  cold  water.  Examine  carefully  for 
motes,  and  remove  them.  Work  out  all  milk  and  water  with  a 
wooden  paddle.  Never  use  the  hand.  Add  salt  in  the  propor- 
tion of  half  a  tablespoonful  to  a  pound  of  butter.  Make  it  into 
shapes.  Keep  in  a  cool,  clean  place.  Nothing  more  need  be 
J«>ne  with  butter  intended  for  immediate  use. 


920.  For  Packing  Butter. — Let  it  set  in  a  cool  place  two  ot 
ihree  days;  work  it  well,  and  pour  off  the  water;  use  more  sail 
than  for  immediate  use.  Scald  small  unglazed  jars  with  salt  and 
water ;  when  cool,  pack  the  butter  down  very  close  ;  pour  off  the 
least  water  that  rises ;  fill  to  within  two  inches  of  the  top ;  then 
melt  butter  enough -to  fill  the  jar  nearly  full.     Lay  ovt:  u"il% 


356  mrs.  hill's  &aw  cook  book. 

when  cool,  a  quarter  of  ai  inch  thick,  this  preparation:  Three 
pans  ground  alum  or  solar  salt  (never  use  Liverpool  salt),  one  of 
pulverized  loaf  sugar,  one  of  saltpetre;  cover  with  a  tight  fitting 
cover;  the  air  must  be  entirely  excluded  Remove  the  top  but- 
ter when  used. 

Another  way  :  Pack  the  butter,  free  from  milk,  in  jara  scalded 
in  salt  and  water.     Pour  over  brine,  and  cover  close. 

Another  way :  Beat  and  sift  four  tablespoonfuls  of  alum  or  sola* 
salt,  two  of  loaf  sugar,  and  one  of  saltpetre ;  add  this  quantity  to 
every  pound  of  butter ;  pack  closely.  Reserve  a  portion  of  the 
salt  mixture ;  put  it  between  a  fold  of  muslin,  and  lay  upon  the 
top.     Cover  closely.     Keep  in  a  dry,  cold  place. 


921 .   To  Freshen  Salt  Butter. — Dissolve  it  in  hot  water.     Let 
'tool;  skim  it  off  the  water,  and  churn  it  in  sweet  milk.     A 
j  of  milk  is  enough  for  a  pound  of  butter.     Only  have  the 
uer  hot  enough  to  melt  the  butter. 


922.  Patent  Butter. — A  patent  has  been  secured  by  a  Mr. 
Clai  k,  of  London,  for  the  following  method  of  preserving  but> 
ter :  "  Wash  the  butter,  and  press  out  the  milk  in  the  usual 
manner ;  then  place  it  between  two  linen  cloths,  and  submit  it  to 
severe  pressure  to  remove  the  whey.  Coat  clean  white  paper  on 
both  sid(*>  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  mixing  fifteen  grains  of  salt 
to  each  white;  dry  the  paper.  And  just  before  wrapping  it 
around  the  butter,  iron  it  with  a  hot  iron ;  use  it  heated.  Keep 
in  a  cool,  dry  place." 


923.  A  Simple  Plan  to  Keep  Butter  Cold  in  Summer. — Pro 
cure  a  large  new  flower-pot  to  cover  the  plate  of  butter;  a  large 
saucer  to  hold  the  flower-pot  when  turned  upside  down.  Put.  ft 
small  trivet  cr  three  muffin-rings  on  the  bottom  of  the  saucer. 
Set  the  plate  of  butter  upon  it ;  fill  the  saucer  with  water ;  turn 
the  flower-pot  o^er  the  butter  so  that  the  edge  of  the  pot  will  bo 
below  the  w  ater.     Put  a  cork  in  the  hole  in  the  bottom  of  the 


THE    DIARY.  <     357 

flower- pot — the  butter  is  now  in  an  airtight  chamber.     Ocea 
eionally  drench  the  outside  of  the  flower-pot  with  cold  water. 

924.  To  Recover  Rancid  Butter  or  Lard. — Use  Darby's  Pro 
phytanic  Fluid  by  the  directions  which  accompany  the  bottles  $ 
at  earn  it  in  thoroughly ;  then  put  the  butter  in  a  clean  vessel. 

The  vessels  used  in  the  dairy  should  be  kept  scrupulously 
clean.  First  wash  them,  then  scald  well,  and  sun  frequently. 
Keep  white,  well-washed  sand  for  scouring  the  wooden  vessels. 

Cream,  after  it  is  skimmed  from  the  milk,  may  be  kept  a  day 
and  night,  by  scalding  it,  and  then  slightly  sweetening  with  loaf 
Bugar.  A  thin  cream  may  be  raised  from  fresh  milk  by  setting 
the  vessel  which  contains  it  upon  the  fire ;  skim  as  the  cream 
rises ;  repeat  the  skimming  as  long  as  there  is  any  appearance  of 
cream. 


925.  To  Preserve  Milk  for  a  Journey. — Put  the  fresh  sweet 
milk  into  bottles ;  put  them  into  an  oven  of  cold  water ;  gradually 
raise  it  to  the  boiling  point ;  take  them  out,  and  cork  imme 
diately ;  return  the  bottles  to  the  water ;  raise  it  once  more  to 
the  boiling  point ;  let  the  bottles  remain  a  minute.  Take  the 
oven  from  tae  fire,  and  let  the  bottles  cool  in  it. 


926.  Cheese. — The  articles  used  in  making  cheese  are,  a  tub  to 
hold  the  milk,  a  boiler  to  scald  it,  strainers  of  coarse  linen,  a 
cheese-basket  for  dripping,  a  cheese-press  and  hooks,  cheese-board, 
and  hoops.  Strain  fresh  unskimmed  milk  into  the  boiler ;  warm 
it  just  blood-hot,  and  no  more;  pour  it  into  the  tub,  and  while 
warm,  add  rennet  enough  to  turn  it.  About  half  a  tumbler  of 
itrong  rennet  water  to  six  quarts  of  milk  will  probably  be  sufli 
sient,  but  it  will  very  much  depend  upon  the  strength  of  the 
rennet  water.  Keep  the  tub  covered  with  a  blanket  where  the 
milk  will  be  only  blood-hot,  and  if  in  an  hour  the  curd  has  not 
framed,  add  more  rennet ;  use  no  more  than  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary, or  the  cheese  will  have  a  strong  taste.  As  soon  as  the  curd 
b  funned,  cut  it  gently  into  cakes,  without  moving  them ;  thii 


358  MR8.    HlLi/fl    NSW    COOK    BOOK. 

will  cause  the  whey  to  rise.  Cut  it  across  slow.y  and  gently  | 
pass  the  knife  gently  around  between  the  tub  and  curd.  Cut  it 
again  in  checks  an  inch  apart.  Remove  the  whey  as  it  rises,  but 
do  not  disturb  the  curds.  Cover  the  tub  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
The  curds  and  whey  must  be  separated  very  gently  and  slowly, 
Or  the  milk  will  run  off  with  the  whey,  and  leave  the  cheese  very 
poor.  When  the  whey  looks  white,  this  is  the  case ;  when  the 
whey  looks  green,  the  process  is  proceeding  satisfactorily.  After 
the  tub  has  remained  covered  fifteen  minutes,  set  the  basket 
partly  over  the  tub ;  spread  the  cloth  (or  strainer)  over  it,  and 
dip  the  curds  into  it ;  shake  the  cloth  to  hasten  the  dripping. 
Gather  the  ends  of  the  cloth  up  securely,  and  put  a  weight  upon 
the  curds  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Break  up  the  curds  again 
with  the  hand,  and  press  again.  Now  salt  it,  using  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  to  a  pound  of  curd.  Spread  a  thin  cloth  in  and 
over  the  press ;  lay  in  the  curds,  a  little  heaped  in  the  centre , 
pack  it  down  tightly.  The  cloth  should  be  large  enough  to  allow 
the  corners  to  cover  the  top  of  the  cheese  well ;  lay  upon  it  a 
heavy  weight.  Let  it  remain  two  hours ;  cut  up  the  curds ;  lay 
in  the  press  a  dry  thin  or  gauzy  cloth ;  put  the  curds  again  in 
press.  Repeat  this,  without  again  breaking  the  curds,  three  or 
four  times  a  day  until  the  last  cloth  looks  dry ;  then  use  a  fine 
linen  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water ;  wrap  this  around  and  over 
the  cheese,  and  let  it  remain  a  day.  If  firm  enough  (if  not,  let  it 
remain  another  day),  sprinkle  the  outside  with  flour;  sew  a  cloth 
around  it ;  put  in  a  hoop.  Keep  it  in  a  hoop  until  hard  enough 
to  handle;  then  put  it  on  the  cheese-board  or  shelf,  and  rul>  it 
with  butter  every  day  for  a  week.  For  six  months  grease  it  01  ca 
iionally.  For  very  rich  cheese  add  to  the  morning's  milk  the 
>ream  of  the  over  night's  skimming.  These  rich  cheeses  do  not 
need  coloring,  but  for  poorer  ones  use  annotta,  and  a  little  Wy 
added  to  the  milk,  along  with  the  rennet ;  allow  three  drachms 
of  annotta  to  ten  pounds  of  curds ;  for  green  cheese  use  the  juic* 
of  sage  or  spinach.  To  protect  fresh  cheese  from  flies,  mix  rad 
pepper  with  the  butter  with  which  it  is  greased. 


Tin    DAIRY. 

OT7.  Cream  Cheese. — One  quart  of  cream  ;  st.<-  to  it  one  tea* 
spoonful  of  salt;  let  it  stand  covered  two  days.  Lay  in  a  sieve  a 
cloth  folded  six  times ;  sprinkle  it  with  salt  (the  cloth  should  be 
much  larger  than  the  sieve,  and  hang  considerably  over  the  side 

if  the  sieve) ;  pour  in  the  cream ;    sprinkle  a  little  salt  on   it. 

Change  the  cloth  as  soon  as  it  gets  moist.  Repeat  this  ;  as  the 
cheese  dries,  press  it.  This  makes  a  good  custard,  washed 
before  dry,  and  made  into  a  batter,  with  eggs,  milk,  sugar  u.j  • 
lit  Je  butter.     Season  with  lemon.     Bake  in  a  crust. 


COOKING   FOR   INVALIDS. 

**  There  is  no  creature  on  earth   who   has  bo  many  traula  as  man.1* 

t>28.  Lemon  Punch. — Roll  two  large  lemons  under  the  hand 
t^il ;  cut  them  into  thin  slices;  take  out  all  the  pulp,  and  throw 
•tfay  the  seed.  Put  the  pulp  and  yellow  rind,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  good  green  tea,  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  in  a  clean 
8tew-pan  lined  with  porcelain ;  pour  over  a  tumbler  of  boiling 
water.  Stir  well,  and  add  a  pint  of  Champagne  wine,  or  any  pre- 
ferred. Set  it  upon  the  fire  until  hot,  ana  unnk  immediately. 
Excellent  to  promote  perspiratioD  in  bad  fr.lrls.  THe  rtatmf!i 
snould  drink  it  in  bed.  Half  this  receipt  will  be  sufficient  ftt 
one  person. 


929.  Mulled  Wine. — Boil  together  one  tumbler  of  water,  half 
A  nutmeg,  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  a  dozen  cloves  slightly 
bruised,  the  same  of  allspice ;  reduce  it  by  boiling  half;  strain 
the  spiced  water  into  a  pint  of  good  Sherry  or  Madeira  wine 
Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble,  take  it  off  the 
fire ;  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  and  serve.  Cider  may  be  mulled 
in  the  same  way. 

930.  Wine  Whey. — One  pint  of  b(  iling  milk,  a  tumblerful  of 
good  Madeira  wine ;  boil  until  the  curds  form.  Pour  off  the 
whey  into  a  pitcher ;  sweeten,  and  serve.  Cider  may  be  used 
instead  of  wine. 


9S1.  Drink  for  a  Consumptive. — Put  into  a  tumbler  a  table- 
*px>nful  of  strained  honey,  a  wineglass  of  good  brandy  or 
whiskey  ;  add  milk  just  from  the  cow  to  fill  the  glass.  Stir,  and 
&iuk  warm,  before  breakfast. 


COORrtRF    FOR    INVALIDS.  361 

932.   Tamarind  Whey.-~ -Boil  one  ounce  of  tamarinds  in  a  pint 
ef  sweet  milk;  stiain,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 


933.  Apple- Water. — Take  dried  apples;  pour  boiling  water 
,-vver  them  ;  let  them  set  until  cold.  Or,  oake  green  apples,  and 
oour  boiling  water  over.  A  pleasant  drink  in  fevers.  Sweeten 
if  liked. 


934  Crat.herry  Tea. — Mash  ripe  fruit;  pour  over  boiling 
water.  Strain,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Tamarinds  may  be  used 
In  this  way,  but  without  mashing  the  fruit. 


935.  Corn  Meal  Gruel. — Sift  the  finer  part  of  the  corn  meal 
from  the  bran ;  boil  the  bran  at  least  two  hours  in  plenty  of 
water.  Keep  the  vessel  covered,  to  prevent  its  being  smoked. 
Be  careful  it  does  not  scorch.  Should  the  water  boil  down  too 
much,  replenish  with  boiling  water.  Strain  the  bran  from  the 
water.  Season  the  water  or  gruel  with  sweet  milk,  a  little  fresh 
butter,  and  salt.  Omit  the  butter  if  it  would  make  the  gruel  too 
rich  for  the  patient. 


936.  Flour  Gruel. — Put  a  pint  of  fresh  sweet  milk  to  boil; 
mix  to  a  paste  an  even  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  corn  starch, 
or  potato  starch.  Just  as  the  milk  boils,  stir  in  the  paste 
smoothly.  Let  it  boil  until  the  gruel  is  sufficiently  thick.  Sea- 
son with  loaf  sugar  and  nutmeg;  wine  may  be  used  if  liked. 


937.  Potato  Starch  Custard. — Two  heaped  tablespoon  fills  of 
potato  starch,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  with  two  tablespoon fuls  ci 
pulverized  loaf  sugar  (more  sugar  may  be  used  if  liked) ;  sensor 
to  taste,  with  lemon,  vanilla,  or  rose-water,  and  one  pint  of  fresh 
meet  milk.  Boil  the  milk;  add  the  starch,  wet  up  with  cold 
milk;  just  as  the  milk  begir.s  to  boil,  stir  constantly  until  a9 
thick  as  very  rich  cream.  Pour  it  out.  When  warm  only,  stir 
It  to  the  eggs,  mixing  well.  Return  to  the  stew-pan,  and  boil 
16 


S62  MRS,  hill's  new  cook  book. 

untf.  the  eggs  are  cookoI,  which  will  require  ten  minutes.     Stii 
constantly.     Serve  with  or  without  sauce. 


938  Fatina  Custard. — Put  a  pint  of  fresh  sweet  milk  to  t>n*1 
Kith  a  stick  of  cinnamon.  Wet  up  two  tab_espoonfuh  (S  dr. 
farina  with  cold  milk;  stir  it  to  *jhe  boiling  milk;  let  it  boil  ,Vt 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  it  from  the  fire;  beat  thfc 
jrolks  of  two  eggs.  Stir  the  farina  to  them  when  just  warm; 
sweeten  and  season  to  taste.  Pour  into  earthen  cups ;  set  the  cups  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water ;  put  the  pan  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake 
slowly  until  the  custard  is  firm.  Try  one,  by  probing  with  the 
handle  of  a  silver  teaspoon.  If  baked  in  an  oven  too  hot,  the 
custards  will  be  watery  ;  if  properly  baked,  they  will  cut  firm, 
and  have  a  beautiful  solid  look.  These  may  be  made  of  arrow- 
root, corn  starch,  or  flour,  and  nothing  of  the  kind  can  be  more 
agreeable  to  an  invalid.  It  is  a  nice  dessert,  baked  in  an  earthen 
dish,  the  sugar  in  the  custard  omitted,  and  eaten  with  rich  wine 
sauce.     Grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 


939.  Corn  Starch  Custard. — Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs; 
boil  a  pint  of  fresh  sweet  milk  ;  wet  up  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of 
corn  starch  with  cold  milk ;  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk ;  boil  five 
or  six  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Set  it  aside  to  cool ;  then 
stir  well  into  the  milk.  Return  all  to  the  boiler;  stir  well 
until  as  thick  as  liked.  Pour  into  an  earthen  bowl ;  stir  a  few 
minutes,  and  when  cool,  season  to  taste  with  lemon,  orange, 
rose,  or  vanilla.  Whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  strong 
froth ;  add  a  few  drops  of  the  same  flavoring  used  in  the  custard, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  pulverized  loaf  sugar ;  pile  this  over  the 
custard,  and  serve.  These  custards  should  be  prepared  in  • 
double  kettle,  or  in  a  tin  bucket,  set  in  an  oven  of  boiling  water 


9  40.  Arrowroot — May  b>3  made  '  f  either  milk  or  water.  Mil 
an  even  tablespoonful  of  genuine  arrowro  )t  powder  with  water 
enough  to  make  a  smooth  paste ;  mix  in  a  bowl.     Season  witk 


COOKERY  FOR  INVALID8.  363 

■ugftr  and  wine;  pour  a  tumblei  rul  (very  slowly,  and  stir  rapi.lly) 
of  boiling  water.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan;  scald  well  until  trans 
•want;  pour  out,  and  season  to  taste.  Very  little  cooking  it 
necessai  y.     Fresh  sweet  milk  may  be  used  instead  of  water. 


SMI.  Rice  Gruel. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  flour;  wet  it  up 
with  X)ld  water.  Boil  twenty  minutes  in  a  pint  of  boiling  vater; 
then  add  one  tumblerful  of  fresh  sweet  milk.  Season  to  taste. 
Caudle  is  made  by  adding  to  this  gruel,  wine,  and  a  little  grated 
cracker. 


942.  Corn  Meal  Pudding. — One  quart  of  sweet  milk  ;  add  to 
this  while  boiling  hot,  sufficient  fine  corn  meal  to  make  a  stiff 
mush.  Let  this  get  cold.  Add  four  eggs,  beaten  separately ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  yeast  powders ; 
add  the  whites,  beaten  very  solidly,  last.  Bake  quick.  Eat  with 
or  without  sauce.  Tapioca  boiled  or  baked  is  much  relished  by 
invalids.    Receipts  are  already  given  for  preparing  these  custards. 


943.  Sago. — Soak  half  a  tumblerful  an  hour  in  cold  water. 
Boil  in  a  pint  of  hot  water  until  soft.  Stir  it  from  the  bottom  , 
add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Season  to  taste  with  wine,  sugar,  and 
nutmeg.     Eggs  may  be  added,  and  baked  as  a  pudding. 


944.  Panada. — Mix  three  parts  water,  one  of  good  Madeira 
wine.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan ;  add  a  large  square  cracker,  grated, 
to  a  pint  of  the  fluid.  Let  it  become  boiling  hot;  pour  ofl'  into 
a  bowl ;  season  with  sugar  and  lemon,  or  r  ltmeg.  The  water 
may  be  poured  upon  a  well-beaten  eggf  if  liked;  3tu  brisklj 
while  pouring  it  on  the  egg. 

945  Cracker  Toast. — Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  t  imblerful  of 
■weet  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  good  fresh  butter  into  which  has 
been  rubbed  an  even  teasp  >onful  ^f  flour.  Set  it  on  the  fire  until  the 
butter  aid  milk  is  boiling  hot      Have  ready  a  deep  d  sh  of  boil 


364  MRS.    niLL's    NEW    COOK    BODK.' 

ing  water;  dip  the  crackers  in ;  put  a  layer  upon  the  bottom  of  i 
hot  coveied  dish.  Just  as  the  mil/;  boils  up,  pour  part  of  it  over 
the  crackers;  put  down  another  layer  of  cracKeia  °o  divide  the 
same  that  some  may  be  poured  over  each  layer  of  crackers. 
Cover  when  the  last  is  in,  and  serve  immediately ;  if  allowed  to 
wait  before  being  eaten,  they  become  watery  and  sodden.  With 
i  soft  boiled  egg,  a  little  grated  ham  or  tongue,  a  good  cup  of 
tea,  coffee,  or  chocolate,  an  invalid  need  not  desire  a  better  break- 
fast or  lunch.  Light  bread  or  hard  biscuit  may  be  toasted  and 
dressed  in  the  same  way. 

946.  Toast  and  Water. — Slice  stale  light  oread,  or  toast  the 
outside  crust  of  corn  bread.  Immerse  it  while  hot  in  a  tumbler 
or  pitcher  of  cold  water;  cover  it  for  half  an  hour  before  drink- 
ing. Make  it  fresh  once  a  day.  The  vessel  may  be  refilled  as 
the  water  is  used. 


947.  Rice  Pudding. — One  small  teacup  of  boiled  rice,  three 
well-beaten  eggs,  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  custard  sets.  Boiled  rice,  sea- 
soned with  orange  peel,  milk  and  sugar,  is  a  good  dish  for  inva- 
lids. Use  a  little  butter,  if  permitted ;  a  little  wine  is  also 
relished. 


948.  Gelatine  Blanc-Mange. — Boil  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a 
pint  of  water  until  dissolved.  Mix  with  a  pint  of  sweet  milk 
half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Put 
upon  a  flat  dish  a  quart  of  rich  crean  ;  beat  to  a  stiiF  froth. 
3tir  the  milk  and  gelatine  together;  add  the  whipped  cream;  stir 
until  it  congeals. 


949.  Beef  Broth. — Put  half  a  pound  bi  lean  beef  in  a  stew-pan, 
pour  over  it  three  tumblers  of  cold  water.  Set  it  over  a  slow  fire 
where  it  will  heat  gradually.  Remove  the  scum  as  it  rises, 
After  simmering  half  an  h<  ur,  strain  it  through  a  thin  c!otk 


COOKERY    FOR    INVALIDS.  3fl3 

tkteion  with  salt  and  popper.  Very  goo<'  bith  may  bo  made 
by  pouring  boiling  water  over  cold  steak.  Scrape  off  *.ho  giavy 
first. 


050.  Egg  Nogg. — To  the  yolk  of  each  egg  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  loaf  sugar ;  beat  well  together ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  go*  4 
urandy  or  three  of  Madeira  wine.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  solid 
froth ;  put  them  to  the  yolks,  and  to  every  three  eggs  add  a 
wineglass  of  thick  rich  cream.  Stir  lightly  into  the  yolks.  The 
cream  may  be  omitted,  if  not  liked.  It  injures  the  egg-nogg  if 
not  very  thick  and  rich.  This  is  excellent  for  persons  suffering 
from  bad  colds  and  coughs. 

951.  Drink  for  an  Invalid. — A  new-laid  eggf  well-beaten,  a 
iup  of  hot  coffee,  tea,  or  chocolate  poured  to  it,  stirring  well,  is  a 
good  drink  for  an  invalid. 

952.  Boullie. — Boiled  flour  for  persons  suffering  with  weak 
bowels,  and  for  infants  teething.  Boil  half  a  pound  of  flour,  tied 
loosely  in  a  cloth,  four  hours.  When  cold,  peel  off  the  outer 
rind.  To  a  pint  of  boiling  sweet  milk,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  this 
boiled  flour  grated  and  wet  into  a  paste  with  cold  water;  boii 
gently  ten  minutes.     Season  with  salt  and  a  little  loaf  sugar. 


953.  Broiled  Tomatoes. — Slice  large  tomatoes,  without  skin 
ning;  put  them  upon  a  warm  gridiron  until  thoroughly  hot,  tun. 
ing  them  once.  Season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  The»« 
are  excellent  for  invalids  suffering  from  constipation. 


954.   Tomato  Toast. — Stew  to   a   paste,  after  skinnir.g    hem. 
Beason  to  taste,  and  spread  upon  slices  of  toasted  bread. 


955.  Herb  Teas. —  Make  these  by  infusion,  using  greon  ot 
dried  leaves.  Balm,  catnip,  pennyroyal,  sage,  are  good  drinks  in 
fever  to  prom>te  perspiration.     Mint  tea  will  sometimes  rcliev* 


MM  MRS.    niLLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

nausea;  use,  if  possible,  the  green  leaves.  Mullen  and  sassafm 
will  purify  the  blood.  Flaxseed  and  slippery  elm  are  good  for 
cold3,  influenza,  etc.  Tea  of  the  uva  ursi,  with  a  piece  of  aalt 
petre  as  large  as  a  pea  to  a  tumblerful,  is  good  for  strangury. 

Herbs,  intended  for  drying,  should  be  gathered,  just  before  they 
bloom,  in  dry  weather,  and  dried  in  the  shade.  Put  up  in  papei 
bags. 

956.  Mutton  Broth. — Take  half  a  pound  from  the  scraggy 
neck  part;  cut  off  the  skin  and  fat;  put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  and 
cover  with  cold  water ;  a  pint  to  half  a  pound  will  be  a  good 
proportion.  Let  it  simmer  gently  (removing  the  scum  as  it 
rises)  an  hour,  then  strain  it.     Season  to  taste. 


957.  Chicken  Panada. — Use  the  head,  wings,  neck,  and  gib 
lets ;  cover  them  with  cold  water ;  stew  until  tender.  Take  out 
the  chicken ;  add  a  little  sweet  milk  and  bread  crumbs  ;  salt  to 
taste ;  stew  five  minutes ;  serve  hot.  Use  the  giblets  with  the 
rest  of  the  chicken.  Chicken  tea  is  made  by  stewing  the  chicken 
as  in  the  panada,  using  the  same  pieces;  skim  off  all  grease; 
season  with  salt  to  taste. 


958.  Birds  for  Convalescents. — Lay  them  upon  the  gridiron 
broil  until  a  light  brown  color;  then  put  them  in  a  stew-pan 
pour  over  hot  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Le<;  them  stew 
until  tender.  Season  with  a  little  fresh  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Chicken,  birds,  and  squirrels,  stewed  in  a  double  kettle,  are  vcr) 
delicate  for  invalids.  If  permitted,  stuff  the  fowls  and  birds  with 
minced  oysters. 

959  Oyster  Soup. — Pour  off  the  liquor  from  the  oysters.     Pu 
the  oysters  and  a  piece  of  butter  (enough  to  make  them  suffi 
eiently  rich)  into  the  stew-pan.     Let  the  oysters  stew  until  they 
lose  their  slimy  appearance.    To  a  quart  of  oysters,  add  a  quart 
of  their  liquor,  the  same  quantity  of  sweet  milk,  a  teacup  of 


OOOKIRT     FOR    INVALIDS.  861 

bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Be.it  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  add 
them  just  as  the  liquor  boils  up.  Serve  hut.  This  is  a  line  soup 
for  a  consumptive,  or  for  one  in  a  feeble  state,  where  a  generous 
diet  is  required. 

900.  Mush.—-' Wet  up  three  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  corn  mea 
with  cold  water;  stir  it  to  three  tumblerfuls  of  boiling  water. 
Add  salt  to  taste;  stir  frequently  until  the  meal  is  thoroughly 
cooked,  and  the  mush  sufficiently  thick.  Eat  cold  or  warm  with 
sweet  milk  or  syrup.     Cut  cold  mush  in  slices,  and  fry. 


961.  hasty  Pudding. — Add  to  this  quantity  of  mush  two  well* 
beaten  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  cf  butter,  sugar,  and  spioe  to 
Bake  in  an  earthen  dish. 


MEDICAL  RECEIPTS. 

Safe  guide  to  health :  Keep  the  feet  warm,  the  head  cooi,  and  the  ooweli  opm.  < 

902.  For  a  Burn. — Make  half  a  tumbler  of  strong  lime  water 
let  it  set  a  tew  minutes ;  then  strain  the  water  through  a  thin 
muslin  to  the  same  quantity  of  linseed  or  sweet  oil  (neat's  or 
hog's  foot  will  answer);  mix  it  well,  and  spread  over  the  burn; 
wrap  over  linen  cloths.  Do  not  remove  the  cloth  for  several 
days ;  saturate  it  frequently  with  the  lime  and  oil  until  the  in- 
flammation  is  subdued.  Should  the  odor  become  offensive,  apply 
cold  poultices  of  the  flour  of  slippery  elm ;  spread  over  wit! 
pulverized  charcoal.  A  plaster  of  lard  and  soot  is  also  good  foi 
a  burn.  Ileal  with  any  simple  salve — a  very  good  ore  is  madf 
by  stewing  together  heart  leaves,  white  lily  root,  agrhnony,  t 
few  leaves  of  the  Jamestown  weed,  and  sweet  gum.  When  the 
strength  of  the  herbs  is  extracted,  strain  the  water ;  throw  jway 
leaves,  etc. ;  add  fresh  unsalted  butter,  and  simmer  gentiy  una] 
the  water  has  evaporated.  Keep  this  on  hand  for  common  sores, 
in  a  close-covered  box. 


963.  To  Dress  a  Blister. — Clip  the  blisters ;  dress  with  a  soft 
cloth  covered  with  hog's  lard.  Renew  as  necessary.  Cabbago 
'cavos  aie  not  now  used. 


964.  Green  Ointment. — Boil  the  leaves  of  Jamestown  weed  in 
water  until  a  very  strong  tea  is  obtained;  add  good  hog's  Jan!  in 
the  proportion  of  three  pounds  of  lard  to  one  gallon  of  the  water, 
Stew  until  the  water  is  evaporated.  Strain,  and  to  each  pouud 
add  an  ounce  of  turpentine ;  add  it  when  the  lard  is  nearly  cold 


MEDICAL    RECEIPTS.  369 

965.  Cure  frr  Old  Ulcers. — Five  grains  of  corrosive  suolimatej 
t  le  same  of  sugar  of  lead,  fourteen  grains  of  white  precipitate, 
and  two  even  tablcspoonfuls  of  good  lime ;  mix  in  a  quart  bottle 
of  a  dter      Boil  tow  in  strong  ley ;  dry,  and  card  it ;  wet  it,  «Dd 

ppl y  to  the  sore.     Keep  the  tow  wet. 

Another  remedy  :  Mix  half  a  teacup  of  sweet  gum,  pine  gum 
(or  rosin),  beeswax,  and  tallow;  melt  them;  add  as  much  of  th* 
juice  of  green  tobacco.  Stew  all  together  until  it  forms  a  salve. 
L'cultice  the  ulcer  the  night  before  using  the  salve  with  a  dough 
of  corn  meal  and  lard;  then  apply  the  salve.  It  is  excellent  for 
Mores  upon  horses. 

966.  Bone-Felon. — Apply  a  salve  of  equal  parts  of  soft  soap 
and  quicksilver.  It  is  seyere,  but  will  relieve.  To  blister  imme- 
diately with  flies,  is  also  good. 

Another  remedy :  One  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  teaspoonful  of  fresh 
tar,  the  same  of  brown  sugar,  and  fine  salt;  stir  together;  wrap 
in  a  cabbage  leaf  securely,  and  roast.     Apply  hot. 

Another :  One  tablespoonfui  of  rec  lead,  the  same  of  Castile 
soap,  with  as  much  weak  ley  as  will  make  it  into  a  salvfc 
Apply  it  on  the  first  appearance  of  the  felon.  It  will  cure  it  in 
ten  hours. 

For  a  run-round :  Upon  the  appearance  of  the  first  symptom*, 
■cald  in  hot  ley. 

When  a  nail  is  run  into  the  foot  apply  grated  beet ;  ke«p  th» 
foot  still,  and  elevated.     Or,  bathe  in  a  strong  tea  of  wormwood 
end  then  bind  slices  of  fat  bacon  upon  the  wound. 


967.   Quick  Emetic. — A  teaspoonful  of  mustard  in  a  tumblei 
Jul  of  warm  water. 


968.   Colic  Mixture  for  In/ants. — Eighty  drops  of  laudanum. 

fourteen  of  oil  of  &Tiise,  two  tablespot  nfuls  of  alcohol,  and  a  pieoe 

Asafu'tidd  as  large  as  a  pea;  put  these  in  an  eight-ounce  phial, 

and  (ill  with  warm  wa'    .      Sweeten  with   loaf  sugar.      D    c 

10* 


870  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

from  four  Ij  six  drops  to  a  child  a  few  days  old.     Increase  tht 
dose  as  the  child  gro\*  s  older. 


969.  Chloroform  Cough  Drops. — Sulph.  mcrphine,  three 
grains ;  two  ounces  each  of  syrup  of  squills  and  ipecac ;  chloro- 
form, one  drachm.  A  teaspoonful  every  two  hours  when  the 
aough  is  very  troublesome,  longer  time  as  the  cough  decreases. 


970.  For  Coughs  and  Colds. — Equal  parts  of  syrup  of  squills, 
Bateman's  drops,  and  sweet  spirits  of  nitre ;  make  a  tea  of  flax- 
seed ;  flavor  it  by  boiling  sufficient  lemon  in  it ;  sweeten  with 
loaf  sugar  if  liked.  Into  a  wineglass  of  this,  put  a  tablespoonful 
of  the  mixture ;  take  it  upon  going  to  bed.  Paregoric  may  be 
used  in  the  place  of  Bateman's  drops.  Give  it  at  intervals  of 
two  or  three  hours  until  the  cough  is  relieved. 


971.  To  Relieve  a  Cold. — At  the  very  first  symptoms,  have  the 
feet  bathed  upon  going  to  bed,  and  take  three  grains  of  quinine 
(five  grains  is  sometimes  given),  twenty  drops  of  laudanum,  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  ginger  tea  or  water.  If  not  relieved  by  the 
first  dose,  repeat  the  next  night.  Two  doses  will  generally  relic  re 
an  obstinate  cold. 


972.  Specific  for  a  Cough. — Take  equal  quantities  of  camo- 
mile flowers,  elecampane,  life-everlasting,  mullen,  a  few  races  of 
ginger,  and  as  much  fat  lightwood  splinters  as  camomile.  Boil 
SO  a  strong  tea;  strain  it,  and  add  enough  honey  and  sugar 
mixed  in  equal  quantities;  boil  down  to  a  syrup;  add  enough 
good  apple  vinegar  to  give  a  pleasant  acid  taste. 

Tills  made  of  fresh  tar,  brewn  sugar,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
are  good  for  a  cough.  Pills  of  fresh  rosin  taken  from  the  |«ii« 
fcjee  are  also  good. 

An  excellent  remedy  for  a  cough  is:  The  root  of  the  butt  in- 
wood  boiled  with  comfrey  to  a  strong  tea;  strain,  sweeten  with 
hoiicy,  and  boil  to  a  syrup;  add  *o  each  pint  a  tablespoonful  of 


MEDICAL    RECEIPTS.  371 

pArcgoric.     A  tablespoonfiil    is    a   dose;  take    as   often    as   ii 
necessary. 

For  bronchitis:  Rub  the  throat  daily   with  a  drop  of  troloo 
oil  or  tartar-emetic  ointment  until  it  Is  blistered. 


973  Plaster  for  Chest  Affections. — Dissolve  together  muilon 
•net  and  beeswax,  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  ;  a  tablespoonfiil  each  of 
sweet  oil,  laudanum,  turpentine,  spirits  of  hartshorn ;  one  ounce 
of  gum  camphor.  Melt  all  together  but  the  hartshorn;  add  that 
after  the  other  things  are  melted  and  mixed.  Spread  upon  a 
cloth. 


974.  Putrid  Sore  TJtroat. — Mix  one  gill  of  strong  apple  vine, 
gar,  cue  tablespoonful  of  common  salt,  tablespoonful  of  strained 
honey,  half  a  pod  of  red  pepper;  boil  them  together;  strain  into 
half  a  pint  of  strong  sage  tea.  In  severe  cases  give  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  for  an  adult  every  hour;  decrease  the  dose  as  the 
disease  is  relieved.     Use  some  as  a  gargle. 


975.  Inflamed  Sore  Throat. — Gargle  with  borax  and  alum, 
dissolved  in  water.  Take  equal  parts  of  saltpetre  and  loaf  sugar 
pulverized  together;  place  upon  the  tongue,  and  let  it  trickle 
down  slowly  to  the  inflamed  part.  Use  this  two  or  three  time9 
a  day.  Rub  the  glands  with  a  mixture  of  camphor,  cantharides, 
myrrh,  and  turpentine.  If  this  fails  to  reduce  the  inflammation, 
put  a  small  blister  within  an  inch  of  the  ears.  A  gargle  with  red 
pepper  tea  is  good.  Give  cooling  medicines.  Bathe  the  feet  8k 
night.     Avoid  taking  cold. 

976.  WT,ooping  Cough. —  Bruise  a  tunbler  *f  flaxseed,  three 
ounces  of  liquorice,  two  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  two  of  strained 
hone j.  Pour  to  these  a  quart  of  water;  boil  until  reduced  half. 
Give  frequently.  Hog's  laid  and  molasses  in  equal  quantities 
with  a  little  laudanum  is  alsc  good. 


372  jibs,  hiil's  new  coor  book. 

977  Croup. — A  layer  of  onions  sliced  and  brown  sjgar — • 
teasjKK  nful  of  the  syrup  is  a  dose.  Pat  upon  the  chest  a  plastel 
of  Scutch  snufi*.  Grease  a  cloth  three  or  four  inches  long,  two  of 
three  wide ;  sprinkle  over  it  the  snuff.  Remove  the  plaster  ai 
«oon  as  the  stomach  becomes  nauseated. 

The  premonitory  symptoms  of  croup  are  a  shrill,  •onorcut 
«c  ugh,  cold  hands,  and  flushed  face.  The  patient  is  not  alway  I 
sick,  and  is  often  gayer  than  usual.  Use  without  delay  a  plaster 
of  mustard  upon  the  throat,  or  apply  to  the  throat  a  strip  of  flan- 
nel dipped  in  turpentine  or  spirits  of  hartshorn.  Give  nauseatiLg 
dosed  of  hive  syrup  or  syrup  of  squills.  When  these  remedies 
ve  used  promptly,  they  usually  give  relief. 


978.  Wash  for  Sore  Throat  and  Mouth. — One  pennyweight 
of  blue-stone,  the  same  of  alum  ;  beat  them  fine,  and  add  a  tum- 
bler of  good  apple  vinegar.  After  it  is-  dissolved,  add  a  teaspoon* 
ful  of  quick  lime;  strain  it.  Wash  the  throat  with  this  every 
two  or  three  hours  until  the  white  scabs  are  off'.  Gargle  the 
throat  frequently  with  ginger  tea  sweetened  with  honey.  Occa- 
sionally gargle  with  the  blue-stone  and  alum  mixture,  using  half 
a  teaspoonful  at  a  time. 

979.  Antidotes  for  Poisons. — Eject  them  by  vomiting,  or  d<ju 
tralize  them  by  antidotes. 

For  strychnine :  Animal  oil  as  much  as  can  be  gotten  down. 

Sugar  of  lead :  An  emetic  first,  then  calcined  magnesia. 

Corrosive   sublimate:    Whites  of  eggs — add   a   little  water 
*arm  bath ;  drink  freely  of  milk. 

Prussic  acid :  Chloride  of  lime  or  bi-chloride  of  iron,  chalk  and 
nater. 

Arsenic :  Hydrated  oxide  of  iron  in  very  large  doses  is  a  cer- 
tain remedy.  Should  this  not  be  on  hand,  use  an  active  emetie 
of  ipecac  mixed  with  water,  sweetrvned  with  sugar;  then  diink 
freely  flaxseed  tea  aud  milk.  Tobacco  jui.se  3 wallowed,  is  said  to 
be  a  remedy. 


MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.  873 

Copper.  Give  large  quantities  of  sweetened  water;  beat  the 
whites  of  six  eggs;  add  to  them  a  pint  of  water;  stir  wall;  pour 
a  half  tumbler  of  this  to  the  same  quantity  of  sweet  milk.  Give 
every  two  minutes.  Treat  as  for  corrosive  sublimate  cr  any 
mercurial  poison. 

When  copper  vessels  are  used  in  the  kitchen  they  should  be 
laid  aside  and  forbidden  to  be  used  when  the  inside  tinning  begin* 
to  wear  off*.  The  action  of  grease  upon  the  copper  produces  e 
metallic  poison,  which  will  inevitably  cause  death  unless  very 
promptly  relieved. 

For  belladonna  or  veratrum,  etc. :  Give  an  active  emetic ;  then 
strong  vinegar  or  lemon  juice ;  then  strong  coffee. 

Oxalic  acid  is  sometimes  mistaken  for  epsom  salts.  Give  soap 
suds,  or  c>»alk  and  water,  or  calcined  magnesia ;  then  an  active 
emetic. 

For  soda:  Strong  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 

For  an  overdose  of  opium :  Keep  the  patient  in  motion ;  usf 
friction.  Give  strong  vinegar,  in  which  has  been  infused  red 
pepper  (a  pod  to  a  teacup  of  vinegar,  or  half  a  teaspoonfnl  of  the 
pulverized).  Give  a  tablespoonful  every  five  minutes  to  an  adult 
until  the  danger  is  over.  Then  give  strong  hot  coffee  or  a  nour- 
ishing brotn.  This  will  relieve  from  the  effects  of  taking  any 
nareotic,  if  used  in  time. 

Saltpetre :  Vomit  with  mustard  water ;  use  sweet  oil ;  appl j 
onions  to  the  stomach,  soles  of  the  feet,  and  wrists  ;  slice  them. 

Poisoned  mushrooms :  Give  an  emetic.  Then  a  dose  of  castor 
oil.     Afte:  this  operates,  give  strcng  coffee. 

i*rom  foul  air:  Cold  water  dashed  upon  the  head,  and  free  ex 
pneure  to  the  air. 

980.  Convulsions. —  Give  nauseating  doses  of  ipecac.  Rub 
spirits  of  turpentine  nn  the  stomach,  if  from  constipation,  give 
enemas  of  castor  oil  and  warm  water.  If  from  teething,  gire 
paregoric  and  magnesia ;  cataplasms  of  mustai  d  applied  to  the 
■pine  and  extremities,  may  be  used.     Bathe  the  body  in  warm 


371  MR.    HILI  8    NEW    CODE    Dl  OK. 

water ;  put  cold  water  on  the  head.     It  is  sometimes  best  to  d&sk 
it  on  violently. 

!)81.  Dysentery. — Make  a  strong  tea  of  sweet  gum  bark ;  to  a 
pint,  add  a  gill  of  good  brandy,  half  an  ounce  of  laudanum,  a  little 
I  ittf  eugar  to  make  it  palatable.  T^xe  a  teaspoonful  ev*ry  houi 
onl1  the  effect  of  the  laudanum  is  apparent,  then  at  longer  intei 
trals,  until  the  disease  abates. 

A  very  good  and  simple  remedy,  if  used  when  the  first  symp- 
toms appear,  is  :  Give  an  adult  five  drops  of  spirits  of  turpentine 
in  a  tea^oonful  of  sweet  milk.  Repeat,  if  necessary.  Give  a 
child  according  to  age. 

Another  remedy :  A  teacup  half  full  of  apple  vinegar.  Dis 
solve  as  much  salt  in  it  as  it  will  hold,  leaving  a  little  at  the  bot- 
tom. Pour  boiling  water  upon  the  solution  until  the  cup  is 
three-fourths  full.  Scald  it,  and  remove  the  scum.  Take  a 
tablespoonful  three  times  a  day. 


982.  Remedy  for  Diarrhea. — Take  a  peck  of  the  bark  of  green 
hickory.  Clean  an  oven-lid ;  put  the  bark  upon,  and  burn  to 
ashes.  Empty  them  carefully  into  an  earthen  bowl,  and  cover 
them  well  with  warm  water;  stir  well.  Let  them  settle 
and  remain  until  a  moderately  strong  ley  is  made.  Pour  this 
into  a  jug,  straining  it  by  putting  a  piece  of  muslin  cloth  in  the 
bottom  of  the  funnel.  The  jug  should  be  three  parts  full.  Strip 
in  very  small  pieces  a  handful  of  the  inside  bark  of  pine,  for  a 
gallon  of  the  ley ;  put  the  pine  bark  in  the  jug;  fill  it  with  good 
whiskey  or  gin.  A  wineglassful  is  a  dose  for  an  adult.  This  is 
rt  valuable  preparation  for  children  teething.  It  will  be  a  good 
plan  to  make  a  gallon  the  beginning  of  summer.  Keep  it  in  a 
oooi,  dry  place. 

Blackberry  root  is  a  fin 3  astringent.  A  strong  tea  made  of 
this  and  sweet  gum  bark  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon  boiled  's'\\h 
the  root,  is  very  good;  a  Lttle  r/ar3goric  may  be  ad  fed. 
Sweeten  tc  taste. 


MEDICAL    RECEIPTS.  375 

A  very  good  remedy  is  a  dose  of  Dover's  puwlers  in  a  table 
ftpootiful  of  peach-leaf  tea ;  if  the  case  is  severe,  add  ten  dr«»p3  of 
laudanum.     Repeat  in  an  hour  if  necessary. 

983.  For  Violent  Pain  in  the  Bowels — Give  'Ji  injection  of  s 
pint  *f  starch,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard  >r  sweet  oil,  wi*e 
teasp  >onful  of  laudanum  ;  let  it  be  warm.  Quilr  hops  between  a 
('<  Id  .  f  cloth.  Scald  in  hot  vinegar,  and  apply  as  hot  as  can  be 
borne.  Lay  dry  flannel  over  the  bag  of  hops.  If  hops  cannot  lie 
obtained,  use  mullen  or  peach  leaves.  Apply  bottles  of  hot 
water  to  the  feet.  Should  violent  inflammatory  symptoms  ap- 
pear, add  to  the  injection  a  teacup  of  hop  yeast  or  hop  tea. 


984.  Colic — One  or  two  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  common  salt 
fn  cold  water  will  sometimes  relieve;  repeat,  if  necessary.  A  tea- 
spoonful  of  turpentine  and  twenty  drops  of  peppermint  is  also 
good. 

Another  remedy :  Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salts  of  tartar  dis- 
solved in  a  tumbler  of  warm  water,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  pare- 
goric. Take  a  third  of  the  tumblerful;  in  ten  minutes,  half  of 
what  remains;  in  ten  minutes,  the  remainder.  Cover  up  warm 
in  bed,  and  lie  still.     Put  a  mustard  plaster  upon  the  chest. 

Another  remedy :  One  grain  of  opium  and  twenty  grains  of 
calomel.  Make  into  four  pills.  Take  two ;  in  three  hours,  the 
other  two.  Abstain  from  liquids.  Apply  mustard  io  the  ex 
tremities  and  stomach.  Apply  flannel  wrung  out  of  hot  whiskey. 
I'ut  bottles  of  hot  water  to  the  feet.  If  constipated,  give  enema* 
of  castor  oil  and  warm  water.  A  prompt  remedy  in  mi.'d  cases  oi 
OoJic  is  :  A  teaspoonful  of  piregoric,  half  the  quantity  of  extract  of 
ftiig^r  in  a  wineglass  of  water.  Camphor,  peppermint,  and  asa 
CU- lida,  are  all  good  remedies.  Eat  sparingly,  and  of  nothing 
that  -a  ill  disagree  with  the  stomach. 

A  remedy  to  prevent  cholera,  if  given  in  the  incipient  stage 
(useful  also  in  dysentery) :  Empty  the  bowels  with  oiJ  and  tur- 
pentine, or  salts  and  red  pepper.     Use  a  mixture  of  sixty  graini 


SY6  MR8.   mix's  new  cook  book. 

of  super -carbonate  of  soda,  fifty  drops  of  laudanum,  thn_e  drops  ol 
oil  of  sassafras,  ibur  ounces  of  water.  Dose  :  Tablespoonfui 
after  caeh  evacuation.  If  these  are  frequent,  use  enemas  of  red 
oak  bark  tea  and  laudanum — to  a  tumblerful  of  tea  half  a  teaspoon 
f-il  of  laudanum.  Rub  the  spine  wifch  a  liniment  composed  of 
turpentine,  camphor,  laudanum,  and  No.  6.  Eat  sparingly  tuai 
pi  udently.     Drink  slippery  elm  or  sweet  gum  tea. 


985.  Chills  and  Fever. — Blue  pill  at  night ;  oil  in  the  morning 
Before  the  paroxysms  come  on,  at  least  two  hours,  begin  taking  h 
strong  tea  of  boneset  and  red  pepper.  Keep  the  feet  warm ; 
cover  up  snugly.  A  tea  of  corn  shucks,  with  a  dose  of  morphine, 
will  sometimes  prevent  an  attack.  Another  way :  Blue  pill  at 
night.  Six  or  eight  grains  of  quinine  given  in  pills  of  two  grains 
each ;  begin  three  hours  before  the  chill  comes  on.  This  will  some- 
times prevent  their  return.  Discontinue  giving  quinine  before  the 
fever  comes  on.  Another :  Pills  of  red  pepper,  pulverized ;  as  much 
salt,  four  grains  of  quinine ;  divide  in  two  pills ;  give  one  two  hours 
oefore  the  chill  is  expected  ;  repeat  in  an  hour.  Nothing  is  so  relia. 
3le  as  quinine  given  in  doses  of  six,  eight,  or  even  ten  grains,  but  if 
used  too  long,  may  affect  the  hearing ;  hence,  it  is  a  good  plan  to 
discontinue  it,  and  use  boneset  or  one  of  the  other  remedies  men- 
tioned. One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  large  tablespoonfu)  of  ground 
ginger ;  drink  hot  as  the  chill  is  coming  on.  Half  a  wineglass  of 
green  sage  juice  is  also  good. 


986.  Congestive  Chills. — Give  from  ten  to  fifteen  drops  of 
spirits  of  turpentine  in  a  wineglass  of  toddy.  Make  a  Unimex^ 
of  equal  quantities  of  turpentine  and  camphor.  With  this  nil 
the  spine,  chest,  and  extremities  well;  but  iiDt  enough  to  blister 
Rub  the  extremities  until  reaction  takes  place.  A  cloth  saturated 
With  the  mixture  should  be  applied  to  the  chest. 


987.   Tc    Give   Tone  to  the  Stomach  of  a  Person   Recovering 
from  Chill  and  Fever. — Half  an  ounce  of  rhubarb,  the  same  of 


MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.  817 

aloes,  half  an  ounce  of  bruised  cloves,  one  quart,  of  ge  xl  ^huney. 
Tablespoonful  night  and  morning. 

Another  cure  for  chills:  One  quart  of  gin,  thirty  grains  of 
rhubarb,  sixty  grains  of  quinine.  Dose :  Tablespooniul  two 
Uc  hour?  before  the  chill  comes  on.     Repeat  in  an  hour. 


98v^.  Far  Typhoid  Fever. — Ten  drops  of  turpentine  every  two 
hours ;  increase  the  dose  even  to  a  teaspoonful  until  the  right 
action  is  produced.  Should  strangury  be  produced,  give  spirits 
of  Litre  in  flaxseed  tea.  A  mild  cathartic  or  enema  as  needed ; 
give  no  strong  medicines. 


989.  Scarlet  Fever. — As  soon  as  the  nature  of  the  disease  is 
ascertained,  rub  the  patient  night  and  morning  with  fat  bacon, 
rubbing  every  part  of  the  b^dy  but  the  head  slowly  and  carefully. 


990.  To  Prevent  Scarlet  Fever. — Dissolve  three  grains  of 
extract  of  belladonna  in  one  ounce  of  cinnamon-water ;  triturate 
well  in  a  mortar.  Give  three  drops  in  a  little  sweetened  water 
to  a  child  one  year  old ;  increase  the  dose  one  drop  for  each 
additional  year. 

991.  Dropsy. — A  handful  each  of  elder-buds,  horehound,  and 
rusty  nails,  five  roots  of  black  snakeroot,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
camomile  flowers ;  boil  in  a  gallon  of  good  apple  vinegar  five 
hours,  slowly ;  strain  and  bottle.  Dose :  A  tablespoonful  after 
Mach  meal.     Use  light  diet.     Avoid  cold  and  wet. 

Another:  One  pint  of  hickory  ashes,  and  one  pint  of  good 
wine.     Dose :  A  wineglassful  three  times  a  day. 


992  Jaundice. — Equal  parts  of  wild  cherry-tree  bark  and 
aassafras  root  steeped  in  rum.     A  wineglassful  every  morning. 

May  apple  root,  dried  and  pulverized,  given  in  molasses,  h  an 
excellent  remedy  for  scrofula,  chills  and  fevers,  bilious  fever,  and 
all  diseases  of  blood.     It  is  an  active  cathartic,  vrry  mu  th  ra 


878  MR8.    HILL*8    NEW   COOK    BOOK. 

■emhting  jalap  in  its  effects,  and  should  be  given  r  ruder. tly.  Ai 
much  as  will  lie  upon  the  point  of  a  case-knife  is  a  dose  for  an 
adult.  In  scrofula  it  should  be  given  in  smaller  doses,  so  that  it 
Idav  lie  in  the  system.  I  have  known  it  to  cure  very  desperate 
aai*e3.     It  may  be  necessary  to  use  it  a  long  time. 


993.  To  Rub  on  Swellings  and  Sores. — Put  two  copper  cents  on 
«  plate  ;  pour  on  them  two  ounces  of  aqua  fortis ;  let  it  remain 
twenty  four  hours ;  add  four  ounces  of  strong  vinegar.  Put  the 
cents  and  all  in  a  glass  bottle ;  keep  it  corked.  Begin  by 
putting  two  drops  in  a  teaspoonful  of  rain  water ;  apply  to  the 
gores  three  times  a  day  with  a  soft  brush  or  rag.  If  very  pain- 
ful, add  more  water. 

In  the  spring  of  the  year  an  excellent  article  of  food  for  scrofulous 
persons  is  the  poke-plant ;  boil  it,  and  use  as  asparagus. 

994.  Erysipelas. — A  poultice  of  cranberries,  put  on  cold. 
Keep  the  patient  cool,  or  wet  the  parts ;  cover  well  with  wheat 
flour.  Keep  it  covered  until  relieved.  If  the  paste  cracks,  cover 
with  more  flour.  Give  a  cooling  cathartic.  The  latter  may  be 
used  when  cranberries  cannot  be  had. 


995.  Cure  for  Tetter. — Boil  together  one  pound  of  the  bark 
of  prickly  ash,  the  same  of  dogwood,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
walnut  bark.  Boil  in  three  gallons  of  water  until  reduced  to  ou# 
gallon.     Apply  twice  a  day  to  the  diseased  part. 

996.  Toothache. — Powdered  alum,  two  drachms;  spirits  of 
ether,  seven  drachms ;  mix,  and  apply  to  the  tooth. 

Another:  Chloroform,  one  ounce;    alum,    five  grains,    mor 
|*hine,  three  grains;  mix,  and  apply  with  cotton. 
If  these  fail,  " sun  the  roots" 

997.  Earache. — Rcast  an  onion ;  put  a  few  drops  of  lauda  tun 
and  sveet  oil  upon  it  while  warm.  Press  the  juice  into  the  ear. 
and  stop  it  with  wool.     Bind  the  warm  anion  to  the  ear. 


MEDICAL     RECEIPTS.  371 

998.  Cure  for  Thrush. — One  teaspoonfu)  of  burnt  alum.  out 
ditto  of  raw  alum  ;  beat  them  rti.e ;  «vdd  a  tablespoonful  of  hcnt.y  ; 
warm  it.  First  wash  the.  mouth  with  sage  tea;  then  appJy  the 
item,  etc. 

Ancthei  remedy :  Stir  together  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  two 
Wblespoonfuls  of  apple  vinegar,  Vro  of  good  rum,  a  piece  caik 
of  blue-s*one  and  alum  the  size  of  a  pea*,  beat  these  fine,  and  m  / 
all  well.     Wash  the  sore  places  with  a  mop,  using  this  mixture. 


999.  $>re  Mouth,  or  Tongue. — Three  drachms  of  borax,  two 
of  suga/  of  lead,  half  an  ounce  of  alum,  and  one  pint  of  strong 
sage  tea.     Use  as  a  wash. 


1000.  Sore  Nipples  from  Nursing. — Thirty  grains  of  tannin, 
and  oi)3  ounce  of  glycerine.  This  does  not  require  to  be  washed 
ofT  w'len  the  child  nurses. 

Another:  Wash,  after  the  child  nurses,  with  six  drops  of  the 
tincture  of  arnica  in  a  small  teacup  of  cold  water. 


1001.  To  Prevent  and  Believe  Rising  Breasts. — Upon  the 
very  first  symptoms,  wrap  the  breast  in  linen  cloth  saturated 
with  arnica.  Keep  the  cloth  wet  until  the  soreness  is  relieved. 
After  it  has  progressed,  and  the  arnica  is  not  used,  apply  James 
town  leaves,  coddled,  by  boiling  one  or  two  minutes  with  a  bacon 
rind.  Apply  the  leaves  thick;  then  lay  over  the  rind,  and 
envelop  the  whole  in  a  dry  cloth.  I  have  this  receipt  from  b 
lady  who  considers  it  infallible  if  persevered  with.    Apply  warn. 


1002.  Headache  Pills. — Aconite  and  hyerosramus,  one  grain 
each  to  a  pill ;  take  when  the  neadache  is  coining  en.  Small 
doses  of  morphine  and  quinine  are  also  good.  For  sick  he»»d 
ache,  an  emetic  should  be  taken ;  the  feet  kept  warm ,  wai  m 
cloths  applied  to  the  head.  Apply  horseradish  leaves  scalded  ii 
vinegar,  or  brown  paper  saturated  with  pepper  vinegar. 


S80  MRS.  n ill's  new  cuok  book. 

1003.  Neuralgia. — Haifa  drachm  of  sal  ammonia  in  aaounot 
of  camphor-water ;  take  a  teaspot  nful  at  a  dose ;  repeat  every 
five  minutes.  Apply  chloroitiiti  externally  to  the  pain.  Pilli 
of  a  quarter  to  half  a  grain  of  belladonna,  three  a  day,  boforf 
each  meal,  will  sometimes  give  relief  in  this  painful  disease. 


1004.  Asthma. — Half  an  ounce  of  hydrate  of  potash  put  in  I 
pint  of  water.     Dose:  A  teaspoonful  three  times  a  day 

Another  remedy:  Saturate  the  dried  leaves  of  the  Jamestown 
weed  (dry  in  the  shade)  with  a  strong  solution  of  saltpetre; 
smoke  it ;  fill  the  mouth  with  the  smoke ;  then  open  the  lip**,  and 
draw  in  the  breath.  Gather  the  leaves  before  they  are  injured 
by  frost.  For  hay  or  rose  asthma  use  quinine ;  two  grains  is  a 
dose ;  repeat  if  necessary. 


1005.  Diphtheria. — In  the  early  stages  of  the  disease,  accom 
panied  by  soreness  and  swelling  of  the  throat,  use  a  solution  of 
salt  and  water,  as  a  gargle,  every  ten  minutes.  Have  a  double 
piece  of  flannel;  saturate  it  with  hot  salt  and  water,  and  sprinkle 
salt  between  the  folds;  bind  this  around  the  throat,  putting  a  dry 
cloth  upon  the  outside.  If  the  patient  is  much  prostrated,  use  a 
little  stimulant.     Lose  no  time,  however,  in  calling  in  a  doctor. 


1006.  Cancer. — Said  to  be  infallible.  Pulverized  beech 
drops,  twenty-nine  grains;  red  puccoon  root,  three  grains; 
pure  arsenic,  one  grain  and  a  quarter.  Mix  well,  and  keep  in  a 
dark  place.  Make  an  ointment  of  a  handful  of  slippery  elra 
bark  and  a  handful  of  life-everlasting.  Put  them  in  a  p*"r ;  cover 
with  water,  and  boil  slowly  until  reduced  to  one  pint.  Add  t 
pound  of  rosin,  and  one  of  mutton  suet.  Continue  to  simmer 
until  the  water  has  all  evaporated.  Pour  out  the  mixture,  and 
stir  while  it  is  cooling. 

To  apply:  If  the  cancer  be  net  raw,  scarify  it.  Spread  flit 
salve  on  a  thin  piece  of  cloth  half  an  inch  larger  in  diameter  than 
the  cancer.     Apply  it  to  the  cancer  at  night ;  the  next  moruhp 


MEDICAL    RECEIPTS.  381 

remove  it,  and  spread  over  a  good  coat  of  the  powdered  beach 
drops,  etc.;  then  lay  over  another  cloth  with  the  salve  uooii  it. 
Let  the  powders  remain  thirty-six  hours.  Remove  all,  and 
repeat  as  at  first.  Do  not  wet  the  place  with  water.  If  the 
dead  flesh  does  not  all  come  off,  cut  it  away.  After  the  cancerous 
fl*  sh  is  removed,  use  the  salve  until  the  place  is  cured.  This  is 
uid  to  be  the  receipt  used  by  the  celebrated  cancer  doctor, 
January. 


1007.  Cramp  in  the  Legs. — Stretch  out  the  heel  of  the  leg  as 
far  as  possible,  at  the  same  time  draw  the  toes  as  much  as  possi- 
ble towards  the  leg.  This  is  simple,  but  I  have  often  known  it 
to  give  immediate  relief. 

1008.  Bite  of  Insects. — Use  Darby's  Prophylactic  Fluid,  or 
tobacco  juice.  Soda  moistened  with  water  is  good ;  also  harts- 
norn.  Wrap  the  wound  with  a  cloth,  and  keep  it  wet  with 
arnica. 


1009.  Bite  of  a  Snake. — Bind  above  the  wound  tight.  Give 
whiskey  or  some  kind  of  liquor,  or  give  sweet  oil,  a  wineglassful 
at  once ;  repeat,  and  bathe  the  wound  in  sweet  oil. 

Another  remedy  :  Beat  an  onion  ;  as  much  tobacco  cut  up  fine, 
the  same  quantity  of  salt;  pour  over  a  half  tumblerful  of  boiling 
water ;  put  it  in  a  pot,  and  stew  two  or  three  minutes.  Cord 
sbuve  the  wound  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  wound  is  inflicted ; 
h,  j  \y  the  poultice.  Repeat  until  the  danger  is  over.  Give  a 
win "giass  of  sweet  oil.  This  is  said  to  be  efficacious  in  the  bite 
of  a  mad  dog. 


1010.  Hydrophobia. — Wash  the  wound  immediately  with 
warm  vinegar.  Dry  it,  and  pour  on  a  few  drops  of  hydrochloric 
Boil.  Mineral  acids  will  destroy  the  poison  of  saliva.  Givs 
pills,  made  by  boiling  :he  bark  of  black  ash  to  a  strong  ayrap 
Three  pills  a  day. 


38^  URS.    BILL'S    NSW    COOK    BOCMB 

Another  remedy  :  Burn  to  the  bottom  of  the  wound  with 
caustic,  and  drink  large  quantities  of  vinegar. 


1011.  For  a  Fresh  Cut. — Draw  the  sides  together;  applj 
•trips  of  adhesive  plaster,  and  a  cloth  ever  this  kept  saturated 
with  copal  varnish  or  arnica  tincture. 


1012.  Lockjaw. — If  from  a  wound,  wash  it  with  arnica  water; 
Dind  a  grated  beet  upon  it ;  rub  around  the  wound,  but  not  jn  it, 
with  turpentine.  Give  ipecac  in  sufficient  doses  to  nauseate  ;  this 
will  relax  the  nerves.  If  medicine  cannot  be  swallowed,  use  ac 
enema  of  ipecac  and  laudanum.  Use  twice  as  much  as  when  taken 
by  the  mouth.     Lose  no  time  in  procuring  medical  treatment. 


1013.  Bleeding  at  the  Nose. — Snuff  pulverized  alum,  or  dried 
beef  pounded  or  grated  very  fine,  or  beat  sage  to  a  powder,  and 
snuff  it.  Put  cold  cloths  upon  the  back  of  the  neck.  Put  the 
feet  in  hot  mustard  or  pepper  water.  Holding  the  arms  up 
straight  over  the  head  is  said  to  be  a  remedy. 


1014.   To   Prevent  Discoloration  from    Bruises. — Apply   re- 
peatedly cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water  or  the  tincture  of  arnica. 


1015.  Sprains. — Bathe  in  strong  mullen  tea  salted,  or  apply 
brown  paper  saturated  with  vinegar ;  keep  the  paper  wet  as  long 
as  necessary.  Nothing  is  better  than  the  tincture  of  arnica ; 
wrap  the  place  with  a  linen  cloth,  and  keep  the  clotn  saturated 
with  arnica.  This  is  also  excellent  to  prevent  risings  and  boils, 
find  to  relieve  the  pain  and  inflammation  when  advanced. 


1016.  Scald  Head. — Apply  pyroligneous  acid  to  the  diseased 
scalp.  An  ointment  made  by  simmering  in  water  until  a  strcLg 
tea  is  made,  blood-root,  green  tobacco  leaves,  elder  bark,  i  t  equal 
quantities.  Add  hog's  lard  until  the  water  evaporates ;  strain, 
und  while  warm  add  tc  a  pint  a  teaspoouful  of  fresh  tar.     Wash 


MEDICAL    RECEIPTS.  881 

the  head  m  ell  with  Castile  soap,  .and  wear  a  placer  of  this ;  ivnew 
every  day.  The  blood-root  sliced  and  put  in  vinegar  is  g(*>d 
u«ed  as  a  wash.  The  black  wash  is  also  very  goci.  Tobacco 
juice  and  vinegar  are  said  to  be  good.  This  latter  mixture  wilj 
cure  warts,  The  milk  of  fig  leaves  is  also  good  applied  aftoi 
trimming  the  warts.  Burning  with  lunar  caustic  is  a  &ur 
n  inedy. 


1017.  Corns  and  Bunions. — Burn  with  caustic,  after  bathing; 
repeat,  if  necessary. 

Another  remedy :  Apply  the  pulp  of  lemon  until  the  hard 
part  can  be  easily  removed.  Cotton  greased  with  linseed  oil  or 
turpentine  is  very  good ;  it  softens  the  corn.    Arnica  is  also  good. 


1018.  Chilblains. — A  turnip  poultice  is  good.  Bathe  the  feet 
in  the  water  in  which  the  turnips  are  boiled.  When  the  skin  is 
not  broken,  bathe  in  alum  water.  The  soreness  may  be  relieved 
by  wrapping  in  cloths  saturated  with  arnica ;  keep  it  wet. 


1019.  Frost-bitten  Limbs — Should  be  immediately  bathed  in 
cold  water,  and  rubbed  until  heat  is  restored.  Avoid  warming 
numbed  hands  and  feet  at  the  fire. 


1020.  Dry  Mortification. — Blister  the  part.     Keep  the  bowels 
open  with  castor  oil.     Give  opiates  at  night. 


1021.   Gangrene. — Use  poultices  of  red   oak  bark  thiekfned 
with  corn  meal ;  sprinkle  over  thick  powdered  charcoal. 


1022.  Cure  for  Ingrowing  Nails. — Heat  a  small  piece  of  tal- 
l«.w  in  an  iron  spoon;  drop  two  or  three  drops  between  the  nail 
and  outside  flesh.  It  will  not  be  necessary  to  repeat  this  if 
proper  pains  is  taken  to  so  apply  this  liqui  1  cautery  that  it  will 
insinuate  itself  in  every  interstice  under  the  nail.  Kepeat,  J 
y^ssary. 


S54  MRS.    niLL'8    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

1023.   h'h. — This  disease  is  sometimes  cured  by  washing  ll 
fH  ke-root  tea — not  too  strong,  but  sufficiently  so  to  smart.     An 
ntment  of  equal  parts  of  brimstone  and  hog's  lard    is  good. 
.ve  sulphur  and  cream  of  tartar  to  keep  the  bowels  open. 


103-1.  To  Stop  the  Bleeding  from  Leeches. — Make  a  bait  o\' 
fjottun  about  the  size  of  a  pea;  put  this  pellet  of  cotton  or  lint 
aj  on  the  wound  ;  press  it  down  firmly  ;  keep  up  the  pressure  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Remove  the  finger  cautiously,  taking  care 
to  let  the  pellet  remain. 


1025.  Gargle  for  Sore  Mouth. — IT.-ilf  a  teacup  of  boneset  tea; 
the  same  of  tea  made  of  the  black  haw.  Use  the  bark  of  the 
root;  a  teacup  of  strong  tea  made  of  privet;  a  piece  of  alum  the 
size  of  a  nutmeg.     Sweeten  with  honey. 


1020.  Cholera  Mixture. — Two  ounces  of  peppermint,  two  of 
spirits  of  camphor,  two  of  laudanum,  two  of  Hoffman's  anodyne, 
one  of  extract  of  ginger,  two  of  tincture  of  red  pepper.  Table- 
epoonfiil  every  thirty  minutes. 


1027.  Potato  Poultice. — iJoil  and  mash  the  potatoes  smooth, 
using  warm  water  or  sweet  milk  to  give  it  the  proper  consist 
erce.  This  is  a  soothing  poultice,  but  may  be  made  stimulating 
dy  \ising  strong  pepper  tea  instead  of  water.  For  foul  ulcer* 
use  red  oak  bark  tea,  and  sprinkle  over  it  powdered  charcoal. 

In  preparing  poultices  always  make  enough  for  two.  Have 
t*o  bags  made  of  thin  soft  cloth;  as  one  cools  have  the  other 
feadj  to  apply  immediately,  so  that  the  heat  and  moisture  may 
&U  kept  up  without  interruption  as  long  as  necessary.  When  the 
U»t  poultice  is  withdrawn,  lay  over  the  place  a  dry  flannel  or 
cloth  of  some  kvnd.  The  poultice  should  be  large  enough  to 
cover  the  place  well,  made  smooth,  and  not  too  stiff.  A  hard, 
lumpy,  h<avy  poultice  should  not  be  used.  Never  make  them 
uure  Uau  half  an  inch  thick.    Always   lay  a  dry  cioth  over  tht 


MEDICAL    RECEIPTS.  385 

>eultice  to  prevent  the  person's  clothing  from  becoming  damp. 
v\  hen  wo.ll  prepared  and  managed  they  are  very  useful,  but  im- 
properly made  and  carelessly  used,  they  do  more  harm  than 
good. 

1028.  Charcoal  Poultice. — To  a  pint  of  potato,  light  brer.1  o 
ion  meal  poultice,  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh  burned 
pulverized  charcoal.     Good  for  foul  ulcers. 


1029.  Hop  Poultice. — Boil  hops  to  a  strong  tea;  thicken 
amoothly  with  potato,  flour,  or  corn  meal.  Use  when  there  is 
much  pain  and  inflammation.  Hop  fomentation  is  excellent  for 
•welled  glands  in  scarlet  fever,  quinsy,  etc.  Rub  the  leaves 
between  the  hands;  quilt  them  between  a  fold  of  muslin  cloth; 
scald  in  strong  vinegar.  Apply  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  Make 
two  bags,  and  have  one  cool ;  apply  the  other;  use  over  it  a  dry 
cloth,  and  apply  warm  flannel  when  the  last  is  removed.  Peach 
leaves,  mint,  mullen,  horehound,  and  tansy  answer  a  good  pur- 
pose, and  are  very  good  in  all  painful  affections  of  the  stomack 
and  bowels. 


1030.  Light  Bread  Poultice. — Saturate  the  bread  with  sweet 
milk ;  put  it  on  the  fire  until  hot ;  grease  over  the  top  with  * 
Httle  sweet,  linseed,  or  neat's  oil.  A  very  soothing  poultice  foi 
simple  sores.  Never  let  a  poultice  remain  long  enough  to  be- 
come sour. 


1031.  Slippery  Elm  Poultice — Is  best  made  of  the  ground  elm 
Druggists  usually  keep  it  in  small  packages.  Take  as  much  cf 
the  powdered  elm  as  may  be  needed ;  stir  cold  water  to  it  unti 
it  forms  a  jelly.  Apply  this,  spread  upon  a  soft  cloth,  imme 
diately  to  the  diseased  part.  This  is  excellent  for  sores  from 
fire,  or  any  inflamed  sore.  If  there  is  any  disagreeable  odor, 
i^rinkle  charcoal  over  it.     Change  frequently. 

17 


586  mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

J 032    Pepper  Poultice. — Make       strong  tea   yf  rvd  pepper; 
thicken  with  wheat  bran  or  corn  meal. 


1033.  Flaxseed  Poultice. — Grind  or  bruise  the  seed ;  boil  il 
*weet  milk  or  water  until  of  the  right  consister.ee.  Applj  wilk 
©ut  putting  a  cloth  between  the  flaxseed  and  the  sore. 


1034.  Cancer  Poultice. — Take  equal  parts  of  red  oak  bark; 
poplar  root,  dogwood  root,  and  black  sumac  root ;  boil  down  in 
water  to  a  strong  tea;  strain  out  the  barks,  and  boil  the  tea  io 
the  consistence  of  syrup.  Make  a  plaster  of  this;  sprinkle  ovei 
it  pulverized  bluestone.  Apply  the  plaster  to  the  cancer  night 
and  morning  until  the  cancer  is  eaten  out ;  then  continue  the 
plaster  without  the  bluestone  until  the  fever  or  inflammation  is 
relieved ;  then  use  a  healing  salve. 


1035.  Liniment  for  White  Swelling  and  Palsy. — Use  the  root 
and  flower  of  the  bear  foot  (any  quantity) ;  boil  to  a  strong  tea; 
strain  it,  and  stew  with  hog's  lard  until  the  water  has  evaporated. 
Rub  the  part  affected  well,  and  wrap  in  flannel. 

Another  way  of  making  this  liniment  is :  A  handful  of  the 
flowers  of  the  bear's-foot,  and  one  of  the  root ;  dry  in  the  shade, 
and  beat  to  a  powder ;  mix  with  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
Put  it  in  a  jar,  and  expose  to  the  sun  two  days.  Rub  the  part 
affected.  This  is  also  excellent  for  hard  breasts,  when  there  m 
danger  of  their  rising. 


1036.  A  Good  Healing  Salve. — A  gill  of  soft  turpentine  fro» 
the  pine  tree,  mutton  suet  the  size  of  a  hep's  egg,  three  taU* 
spoonfuls  of  linseed  oil,  the  same  of  beef-fot  t  oil,  and  three  of 
wax;  melt  these  together;  mix  well,  and  when  just  warm,  work 
In  a  teaspoonful  of  laudanum,  one  of  opedeldcc,  *rd  one  of  spirit* 
of  camphor. 

1037.  To  Dress  a  Blister. — When  the  blister  nae  drawn  mfli 


MEDICAL    RECEIPTS.  387 

ciently,  preparo  for  dressing  it  by  trimming  all  the  hard  veini 
and  stems  from  cabbage  leaves ;  lay  them  in  a  deep  vessel,  and 
pour  over  boiling  water;  let  them  remain  until  ready  to  use. 
Remove  tha  blister  gently  with  a  sharp-pointed  pair  of  scissors; 
©r  clip  them;  hold  a  cloth  doubled  under  to  receive  the 
water  as  it  trickles  from  the  blister.  Apply  the  cabbage  eavci 
putting  them  on  three  or  four  deep.  Bind  .nesc  on  carefully 
with  a  cloth.  Dress  in  this  way  for  several  days,  three  times  a 
day.  and  once  or  twice  during  the  night  if  painful ;  then  use  a 
wax  cloth,  made  by  melting  together  one  part  wax,  and  three 
parts  tallow ;   spread  upon  a  cloth. 


1038.  A  Good  Styptic. — Rub  a  little  dry  chloride  of  lime  upon 
the  wound. 


1039.  Mustard  Plaster. — When  required  to  act  promptly,  use 
only  mustard  mixed  with  water  or  vinegar ;  spread  upon  cloth, 
and  apply  immediately  to  the  part;  but  if  wished  less  stimulating, 
add  a  little  meal  or  flour,  and  put  a  thin  muslin  over  the  plaster. 


1040.  Mustard  or  Pepper  Bath  for  the  Feet. — Have  as  much 
hot  water  as  may  be  needed  in  a  small  tub ;  stir  in  mustard  to 
make  it  sufficiently  stimulating,  or  if  pepper,  boil  a  pod  or  two 
of  pepper  with  the  water.  Put  the  patient's  feet  in  the  tub  of 
water,  and  throw  over  the  whole  a  blanket.  Keep  the  water  to 
the  same  temperature  by  adding  a  little  warm  water  from  time 
to  time  as  may  be  needed.  Rub  dry  with  a  coarse  towel,  and 
immediatel)  cover  up  in  bed. 


1041 .  Pepper  Plaster. — Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  with  a  table 
ipoonful  of  pulverized  red  pepper — a  tablespoonful  of  spirits  of 
turpentine  is  sometimes  added.  Spread  upon  cloth.  Excellent 
for  pains  in  the  breast  and  sides,  in  severe  cold,  and  influenzas. 


10i2.  Plaster  for  Boils. — White  of  an  egg,  honey  and  flour. 


188  MRS.   hill's  new  coo*  book. 

For  a  breast  threatened  to  rise :     Dip  a  cloth,  cnt  to  fit,  in 
mixture  of  equal  parts  of  beeswax  and  tallow. 

1043.  Rheumatic  Liniment. — Equal  parts  of  sweet  oil,  spirits  of 
?amphor,  hartshorn,  and  laudanum ;  or  rub  with  No.  6,  or  Pert? 
Davi.V  Pain-killer.     For  pains  in  the  back,  use  the  arnica  plaster 

1044.  Piles. — Castor  oil  on  cotton  is  good.  Also  a  salve 
made  of  Jamestown  weed  leaves,  or  the  seed.  Never  allow  the 
bowels  to  become  constipated. 


1045.  Fainting. — Lay  the  person  in  a  horizontal  position ; 
give  plenty  of  fresh  air.  It  is  improper  and  thoughtless  to  crowd 
around  a  person  in  this  condition.  Bathe  the  face  with  cold 
water.  Apply  hartshorn  or  some  stimulating  smell  to  the  nose. 
Loosen  the  clothing.  If  necessary,  put  mustard  plasters  upon  the 
extremities. 


1046  ^br  Nausea. — Peppermint  diluted  is  very  good.  A 
mint  julip  is  also  good.  Make  it  in  this  way :  Put  a  few  sprigs 
of  fresh  mint  in  the  bottom  of  a  tumbler ;  if  convenient,  add  a 
tcaspoonful  of  ice  broken  into  small  pieces.  In  another  tumbler 
dissolve  a  tablespoonful  of  loaf  sugar  in  enough  water  to  fill  the 
tumbler  half  full ;  add  a  wineglass  of  good  brandy ;  stir  well, 
and  pour  it  upon  the  mint.  Give  this  in  small  quantitias.  Put 
a  mustard  plaster  over  the  stomach. 

1047.  To  Extinguish  Fire  on  a  Person. — When  the  clothea 
catch  on  fire,  extinguish  by  smothering;  wrap  up  in  woolen  if 
possible — a  carpet,  hearth  rug,  or  anything  within  reach.  I 
incw  a  case  where  a  lady  alone  in  her  room,  just  in  the  act  of 
retiring  to  bed,  discovered  her  night  clothes  in  a  blaze;  vith 
admirable  presence  of  mind,  she  leaped  into  bed,  smothered  the 
flame,  and  saved  her  life.     Never  rush  into  the  air. 

If  the  chimney  catches,  so  as  to  endanger  the  house,  throw  sail 
upon  the  fire ;  spread  a  wet  blanket  before  the  fire-^ace. 


MEDICAL    RECEIPTS.  38ft 

1048  Whert  a  Person  is  Insensible  from  a  Fall  or  Jttoit 
vpon  the  Head. — Put  a  mustard  plaster  on  the  back  cf  the 
neck  and  extremities ;  rub  briskly ;  then  bathe  the  part  with  hot 
vinegar. 


i049.  To  Recover  a  Person  Apparently  Drowned. — Strip  th* 
iwvfy  ;  rub  it  dry;  wrap  it  in  warm  blankets;  use  every  means 
V  heat  the  body  by  hot  applications  and  friction.  Wipe  the 
mouth  on  the  inside,  should  it  be  necessary ;  turn  the  head  on 
the  side,  slightly  elevated,  to  allow  the  water  to  run  out  of  the 
mouth.  Inflate  the  lungs,  by  introducing  into  one  of  the  nostrils 
the  pipe  of  a  hand  bellows;  close  the  mouth  and  the  othei 
nostril ;  blow  the  bellows  until  the  chest  rises ;  then  unstop  the 
the  mouth  and  nostril ;  press  lightly  on  the  chest  to  eject  ihe  air. 
Repeat  this  process.  Never  cease  using  remedies  for  at  least  six 
hours.  When  the  patient  is  able  to  swallow,  give  small  quanti- 
ties of  warm  wine,  or  brandy  and  water. 


1050.  From  Freezing. — Put  the  body  in  a  cold  bath  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour ;  rub  briskly  until  warmth  is  restored ;  avoid 
the  fire.  Give,  if  the  patient  can  swallow,  a  few  drops  of  cam- 
phor ;  or  if  it  cannot  be  swallowed,  use  camphor  and  water  as  an 
injection.     As  soon  as  possible  give  a  cup  of  strong  coffee. 


1051.  Struck  by  Lightning. — When  a  person  is  struck  by 
lightning,  dash  cold  water  over  the  neck,  face,  and  breast.  Aa 
they  recover,  they  should  be  kept  quiet.  If  the  feet  are  cold 
apply  hot  jugs  of  water. 

1052.  From  Hanging,  Suffocation,  etc, — Rub  with  warm  jiotha 
Apply  hot  bottles  of  water  to  the  feet. 


1053.  Apparent  Death  from  Charcoal  or  other  Noxiout  Vapor*. 
—Give  the  person  plenty  of  fresh  air.  Dash  over  the  face  and 
neck  ocld  water.   'When  relieved,  cover  comfortably  in    bed' 


S90  MRS.    HILLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

keep  quiet,  and  take  some  nourishing  broth  or  a  cup  of  strcng  Wot 
ooffee. 


1054.  Whin  Affected  by  Foul  Air  in  Descending  Wells- 
throw  down  unslacked  lime,  then  several  pails  of  water  before 
featuring  to  go  down. 


1055.  Tie  Severing  of  an  Artery. — When  a  person  is  in  dan- 
ger of  bleeding  to  death  from  the  severing  of  an  artery,  compress 
with  the  Angers  the  ends  of  the  artery,  as  near  as  possible  to  the 
wound,  or  apply  a  piece  of  lint  dipped  in  a  tincture  of  arnica 
-water ;  on  this  put  a  bit  of  sponge,  and  press  this  so  as  to  stop  the 
blood.     Send  for  a  surgeon  without  delay. 


105G.  To  Dress  Wounds. — Dress  wounds  loosely,  so  as  to  allow 
the  secreted  matter  to  escape  easily  in  the  lint;  spread  over  the 
wound  to  exclude  the  air.  Every  day  a  suppurating  wound 
should  be  cleansed,  and  bathed  freely  in  lukewarm  water.  If  a 
wound  inflames,  becomes  hot,  and  swollen,  put  a  warm  bread  and 
milk  poultice  over  it. 


1057.  For  Bleeding  at  the  Lungs — Take  strong  salt  and  water; 
a  teaspoonfu)  every  five  minutes. 


1058.  Worms — For  A  scar  ides  or  Fin  Worms. — Give  an  injec- 
tion ever}*  wgai  until  relieved,  of  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  in 
kalfapint  of  warm  water.  Use  the  homeopathic  specifics  for 
worms. 

For  other  varieties  of  worms  :  Give  a  child  a  drop  of  turpen- 
tine upon  sugar  for  each  year  old.  For  instance,  if  two  years  dd, 
give  two  drops  of  turpentine  before  eating,  and  for  nine  successive 
mornings ;  then  a  dc  se  of  castor  oil.  When  from  the  knetting 
of  the  worms  violent  pain  is  caused,  rub  with  turpentine,  using  a 
little  on  with  i'.  to  prevent  blistering.     This  treatment  has  beea 


MEDICAL    RECEIPTS.  391 

known  to  remove  tape-worm.   Tea  of  Jerusalem  oak  is  eflicacioui 
in  expelling  worms. 

1059.  Deafness. — Fill  a  phial  with  house-leek  leaves ;  «top  \\ 
well;  envelope  it  in  corn  meal  dough,  and  bake  slowly.  Dny 
khe  juice  in  the  ear  three  or  four  times  a  day.  Wear  a  piece  oi 
wool  in  the  ear. 

Another  remedy  said  to  be  good  :  Divide  an  onion,  and  from 
the  centre  take  out  a  piece  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  fill  this  cavity 
with  a  fresh  quid  of  tobacco,  and  bind  the  onion  in  its  usual 
»hape.  Wrap  it  in  wet  paper,  and  roast  it.  Trim  it  down  to 
the  part  discolored  by  the  tobacco ;  put  it  in  a  phial.  Put  three 
irops  of  this  juice  at  one  time  in  the  ear.  It  may  give  some 
pain  upon  the  first  application. 


1060.   Catarrh  in  the  Head. — Make  a  snufT  of  equal  portion! 
of  bloodroot,  gum  Arabic,  and  gum  myrrh.     Use  it  as  needed. 


10G1.  A  Simple  Febrifuge. — One  teaspoonful  of  saltpetre  and 
6ve  grains  of  ipecac.  Mix  well ;  divide  into  ten  equal  parts. 
Give  one  every  hour  in  flaxseed  tea,  sage,  balm,  or  catnip.  If 
there  is  nausea,  lengthen  the  time  between  the  doses. 


1062.  In  Small-Pox  to  Prevent  Pits. — Saturate  a  cloth  with 
sweet  oil ;  cover  the  face  with  it,  cutting  holes  for  the  eyes,  noso, 
and  mouth. 


1003.  Measles. — Very  little  medicine  is  necessary.  Nearly 
everything  depends  upon  good  nursing.  If  there  is  much  fever 
give  Dover's  powders  in  a  little  ginger  tea.  If  nausea,  give  • 
little  soda  er  peppermint  water.  If  the  eruptior  suddenly  dis- 
appears, give  a  sweat.  Should  there  be  great  debility,  use  a 
little  wine  diluted.  The  patient  should  be  kept  within  doors  in  a 
room  comfortably  warm.  If  in  bed,  the  covering  should  not  be 
oppressive.     Diet  light.     The  greatest  danger  from  measles  if 


802  MRS. 

the  liability  to  relapse.  Avoid  taking  cold.  The  patieirt  must 
not  leave  the  sick-room  too  soon.  If  the  eyes  are  weak,  darken 
the  room. 


1064  Chronic  Rheumatism. — A  good  handful  of  the  hark  01 
*hite  ush  (the  blooms  are  still  better),  it  may  be  fresh  or  dry) 
Steep  in  a  quart  of  gin.  Dose :  a  tablespoonful  three  times  a  day 
If  it  proves  too  active  a  cathartic,  lessen  the  dose. 


1065.  Acute  Rheumatism. — Take  a  tablespoonful  of  No.  6 
three  times  a  day  before  each  meal,  rubbing  the  part  affected 
with  the  same. 


1006.  Homeopathic  Specifics. —  For  rheumatisms,  neuralgia, 
diseases  of  the  nerves,  particularly  headache,  pain  in  the  eyes, 
restlessness,  and  inability  to  sleep,  dyspepsia,  etc.,  I  have  tried 
nothing  equal  to  the  homeopathic  specifics. 


1067.  To  Cure  Pimples  on  the  Skin. — Drink  mullen  tea,  and 
anoint  the  skin  (rubbing  it  in  well)  with  milk  mixed  with  as  much 
sulphur  as  the  milk  will  dissolve.  Let  it  set  an  hour  or  two,  and 
then  rub  it  on.  Make  only  a  wineglassful  at  once.  Use  before 
washing. 

1068.  Disinfectants.  —  For  a  room  where  the  disease  has 
created  a  very  unpleasant  odor,  nothing  is  so  good  as  to  burn 
green  coffee.  Have  a  small  oven  or  pan  half  filled  with  good 
solid  coals ;  throw  upon  them  a  handful  of  coffee  ;  pass  the  vessel 
under  the  bed  and  around  the  room.  Darby's  Prophylactic 
poured  in  saucers,  and  set  around  the  room,  is  good ;  so  also  iff 
chloride  of  lime  dissolved  in  water. 


1069.  For  Spinal  Disease. — Bathe  spine  in  salt  and  water,  Of 
rub  with  tartar-emetic  ointment  until  a  good  crop  of  pustules  ii 
produced.     When  these  dry,  repeat  if  not  relieved. 


MEDICAL    RECKIPT8.  393 

107G.  For  Excoriations  upon  the  Flesh  of  Infants. —  Wash  in 
tepid  water.  Dip  a  cloth  in  sweet  oil  and  slightly  grease  the 
part.  Sore  navel  of  an  infant :  Grate  over  it  very  fine  nutmeg, 
first  cleansing  with  a  suds  of  Castile  soap. 


1071.  Cholera  Infantum. — Pulverized  rhubarb  a  teaspoonful 
two-thirds  full  of  saleratus  or  soda,  a  teacupful  of  peppermint 
leaves ;  pour  over  a  tumbler  of  boiling  water ;  sweeten  with  loaf 
sugar;  from  a  teaspoonful  to  a  tablespoonful  for  an  infant  every 
quarter  or  half  hour,  as  the  case  requires.  Should  the  stomach 
reject  it,  persevere  and  lessen  the  dose.  An  adult  may  take  a 
wineglassful. 

1072.  Remarks  upon  Medical  Receipts. — Emergencies  occu? 
in  every  family  when  the  services  of  a  physician  cannot  be  pro- 
cured promptly,  and  something  should  be  done  while  "  waiting 
for  the  doctor."  Many  of  these  "Medical  Receipts"  will,  I  hope, 
answer  the  valuable  purpose  of  relieving  suffering  humanity. 
Many  cases  of  sickness  may  be  relieved  by  simple  remedies,  if 
used  in  time,  without  calling  in  a  physician.  Some  useful  direc- 
tions will  be  found  in  these  receipts.  Judgment  and  discretion 
must  be  used  in  giving  even  "  simple  remedies." 


1073.  Care  of  a  Sick-Room. — Avoid  loud  talking  or  whis 
pering ;  either  extreme  is  painful  to  a  sick  person.  Make  up  the 
pillows,  and  turn  them  occasionally ;  arrange  the  bed-clothes 
quietly  ;  assist  the  patients  to  change  flieir  position ;  anticipate 
their  wants  in  giving  drink,  nourishment,  etc.,  but  avoid  being 
"  fussy."  A  nervous  person  would  prefer  neglect  to  being  per- 
secuted by  unnecessary  attentions  and  needless  questions.  Nevei 
take  your  seat  upon  a  sick  person's  bed  unless  requested  to  do 
so.  Avoid  shaking  the  bed.  Darken  the  room  to  a  mellow, 
twilight  light,  and  so  ventilate  the  room  that  a  draught  of  air  will 
not  blow  directly  upon  the  patient.  If  the  patient  is  nervou?,  or 
laboring  under  great  excitement,  or  wishes  to  sleep,  exclude  ah 
17* 


394  MBS     HILLS   NEW    COOK   BOOK. 

visitors.  Sensible,  considerate  people  will  never  take  offence  at 
this  course.  Wear  slippers  or  cloth  shoes  ;  tread  lightly.  Lei 
every  thing  about  the  room  be  scrupulously  neat.  Bathe  the  face 
and  hands  of  the  patient  upon  awaking  in  the  morning,  and 
5  vflener  if  necessary.  Change  Jothes  and  bed-clothing  frequently 
:,'A  be  sure  that  they  are  perfectly  dry.  Follow  the  direction! 
ii«  giving  medicine  faithfully.  Make  the  medicine,  when  prepar- 
ing it  to  be  taken,  as  palatable  as  possible.  Give  castor  oil  in 
hot  coffee  or  toddy ;  hold  a  little  vinegar  in  the  mouth  before 
taking  the  oil.  Give  salts  in  a  little  weak  pepper  tea,  or  add  to 
it  a  few  drops  of  extract  of  ginger,  or  No.  6.  Use  as  little  water 
as  can  be  to  dissolve  the  salts.  Cover  powders  with  roasted 
apples ;  this  is  better  than  syrup  ;  though  children  may  prefer  the 
latter.  Take  pepper  tea  mixed  with  sweet  milk,  and,  if  liked, 
sweeten  it.  If  taken  too  strong,  the  tender  coats  of  the  stomach 
will  suffer.  When  food  is  offered  to  a  sick  person,  cover  the 
waiter  with  a  clean,  white  napkin,  with  another  napkin  laid  upon 
the  waiter.  The  china,  glass,  knife,  fork,  every  thing  used,  must 
be  bright  and  clean,  and  a  small  quantity  of  food  served  and 
cooked,  so  as  to  be  appetizing.  Vary  the  dishes.  The  same 
things  should  not  be  offered  every  day.  Never  keep  the  patient 
waiting  any  length  of  time  for  nourishment ;  as  far  as  possible 
anticipate  their  wants.  When  broth,  soup,  or  meat  is  permitted, 
it  is  well  to  keep  a  tender  chicken,  steak,  or  birds  killed,  and  in 
readiness.  Use  only  part  of  the  fowl  at  one  time.  Never  serve 
brv>th  or  soup  smoked  or  greasy.  Black  tea  is  best  for  invalids. 
Giuels  should  be  boiled  a  long  time,  and  be  thoroughly  done. 
Never  tempt  the  appetite  of  sick  persons  by  offering  them  unsuit- 
able food.  If  milk  is  used,  keep  it  in  a  cool  place;  the  least 
acidity  will  injure  the  patient,  unless  in  cases  where  buttermilk 
is  prescribed.  In  making  toast  water,  prepare  it  some  time 
before  it  will  be  called  for;  toast  the  rread  without  burning. 
If  siting  up  at  night  is  necessary,  only  permit  such  persons  tc 
assist  who  will  have  self-denial  and  benevolei.ee  enough  tc  refraia 
fiom  lead  talking, and  ltughin^,  and  reading  newspapers;  the  rat 


MEDICAL  RECEIPTS.  805 

tling  of  the  paper  in  turn.ng  sometimes  gives  exquisite  torture. 
The  rocking  of  chairs  and  other  discordant  noises  must  all  be 
avoided.  "  Trifles,"  it  has  been  said,  "  make  up  the  sum  of 
numan  happiness  or  misery."  This  is  certainly  true  of  a  sick 
room.  Persons  sitting  up  at  night  should  be  invited  in  ancther 
room  if  refreshments  are  furnished,  one  person  remaining  *  ith 
the  patient.  A  great  deal  of  pain  and  suffering  is  inflicted  upon 
the  sick  by  a  want  of  consideratiyn,  and  not  the  wish  or  intention 
to  be  unkind.  Never  carry  a  sad,  lugubrious  face  into  a  sick- 
room. 


1074.  Hints  to  Housekeepers. — Rise  early  in  the  morning,  o? 
you  will  not  get  a  fair  start  with  your  business.  Rise  earlier  on 
Sunday  morning  than  any  other  day,  that  the  children  may  be 
at  Sunday-school  in  time  ;  and  domestics  have  time  to  so  arrange 
their  necessary  business  as  to  be  able  to  attend  Divine  service. 
Do  all  the  cooking  for  Sunday  on  Saturday,  or,  if  it  is  absolutely 
necessary  that  some  cooking  be  done,  have  it  all  completed  at 
breakfast,  and  the  fires  extinguished  for  the  day.  Have  the 
house  cleaned  and  every  thing  put  in  order  on  Saturday.  On 
Sunday  only  make  the  beds,  and  do  such  things  as  are  absolutely 
necessary.  On  Monday  it  will  be  necessary  to  spend  more  than 
the  usual  time  in  cleaning  and  setting  things  to  rights.  On  Mon- 
day evening  look  over  the  soiled  clothes.  Mend,  and  put  on 
outtons  and  strings.  Select  out  the  white  articles,  and  put  them 
to  soak.  Have  a  separate  basket  or  bag  for  keeping  towels,  nap- 
itins,  and  table-cloths.  Put  them  to  soak  in  a  vessel  to  tnem 
selves.  The  soaking  will  soften  the  grease,  and  make  .t  easier  to 
^ash  out.  Have  the  water  drawn  in  barrels,  if  possible.  Expo- 
sure to  the  air  will  soften  the  water,  and  will  give  time  for  the 
■ediments  to  settle  at  the  bottom.  This  will  be  found  an  excel- 
lent plan,  particularly  where  there  is  limestone  in  the  water. 
Have  the  wood  cut  and  every  thing  in  readiness,  so  that  on  Tue» 
day  the  washing  may  be  carried  through  without  interruption. 
Wash  colored  clothes  first,  and  take  them  it  as  soon  as  they  <\tj 


806  mrs.  rill's  new  cook  bcok. 

The  practice  of  some  washerwomen  is  to  wet  colored  clothes  tot 
late  to  dry  ±«*n,  and  then  pack  them  away  damp  until  morning. 
Thij  is  a  severe  j»nd  unnecessary  trial  to  colors.  Some  colon 
fade  from  being  long  exposed  to  the  sun.  The  ironing  of  course 
follows  the  washing,  and  should  be  done  with  as  little  delay  as 
possible,  and  the  cloths  assorted  and  put  away.  Stockings  and 
•ocks  should  be  darned  when  brought  in  from  the  wash.  System 
and  order  must  be  strictly  observed  in  all  household  arrangements. 


"A  place  for  everything,  and  everything  in  its  place."  A 
time  for  certain  duties,  and  the  housekeeper  must  see  that  there 
is  no  infringement  of  the  laws  that  are  laid  down.  Children  can- 
aot  too  soon  be  taught  the  importance  of  order,  neatness,  and 
economy.  A  habit  of  system  may  be  early  formed,  and  prove  a 
blessing  through  life.  An  ill-governed  household,  where  there  is 
neither  system,  order,  neatness,  nor  frugality,  is  a  bad  school  for 
children. 

"  Never  leave  things  laying  about — a  shawl  here,  a  pair  of 
slippers  there,  a  bonnet  somewhere  else,  trusting  to  a  servant  tc 
put  them  in  place.  No  matter  how  many  servants  you  have,  it  is 
a  miserable  habit.  If  you  set  an  example  of  carelessness,  do  not 
blame  your  servants  for  following  it.  Children  should  be  taught 
to  put  things  back  in  their  places  as  soon  as  they  are  old  enough 
to  use  them,  and  if  each  member  of  a  family  were  to  observe  tm 
limple  rule,  the  house  would  never  got  much  out  of  jrder." 


MISCELLANEOUS   3ECEI1TS. 

1075.  Sot  p. — The  ashes  should  be  strong  (hickory  i*  best^ 
•ui  kept  dry.  When  put  in  the  hopper,  mix  a  bushel  of  un- 
locked lime  with  ten  bushels  of  ashes ;  put  in  a  layer  of  ashee ; 
then  one  slight  sprinkling  of  lime;  wet  each  layer  with  w*»*er  (rain 
water  is  best).  A  layer  of  straw  should  be  put  upor  the  bottom 
of  the  hopper  before  the  ashes  are  put  in.  An  opening  in  the 
•ide  or  bottom  for  the  ley  to  drip  through,  and  a  trough  01  vessel 
Under  to  receive  the  ley.  When  the  ley  is  strong  enough  to 
bear  up  an  eggy  so  as  to  show  the  size  of  a  dime  above  the 
surface,  it  is  ready  for  making  soap;  until  it  is,  pour  it  back  into 
the  hopper,  and  let  it  drip  through  again.  Add  water  to  the 
ashes  in  such  quantities  as  may  be  needed.  Have  the  vessel 
very  clean  in  which  the  soap  is  to  be  made.  Rud  th^  pot  over 
with  corn  meal  after  washing  it,  and  if  it  is  at  all  discolored,  rub 
it  over  with  more  until  the  vessel  is  perfectly  clean.  Melt  three 
pounds  of  clean  grease ;  add  to  it  a  gallon  of  weak  ley,  a  piece 
of  alum  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Let  this  stew  until  well  mixed. 
If  strong  ley  is  put  to  the  grease,  at  first  it  will  not  mix  well  with 
the  grease.  In  an  hour  add  three  gallons  of  strong  hot  ley ; 
boil  briskly,  and  stir  frequently;  stir  one  way.  After  it  haa 
boiled  several  hours,  cool  a  spoonful  upon  a  plate ;  if  it  does  not 
jelly,  add  a  little  water  ;  if  this  causes  it  to  jelly,  then  add  water 
to  the  kettle.  Stir  quickly  while  the  water  is  poured  in  until  it 
ropes  on  the  stick.  As  to  the  quantity  of  water  required  to 
make  it  jelly,  judgment  must  be  used  ;  the  quantity  will  depead 
upon  circumstances.  It  will  be  well  to  take  some  in  a  bowl,  and 
notice  what  proportion  of  water  is  used  to  produce  this  effect. 

To  harden  it :  Add  a  quart  of  salt  to  this  quantity  of  soap ;  let 
it  boil  quick  tec  minutes;  let  it  cool.  Next  day  cut  it  out.  Thia 
i»  now  ready  for  washing  purposes. 


398  MRS.    IIILI/8  NEW  COOK   TIOOK. 

1076.  To  Remove  Stains  and  Restore  Colors  Destroy*!  5$ 
Acids. — Apply  ammonia  to  neutralize  the  acid  ;  after  which  aj> 
ply  chloroform.  This  will  rcmov6  paints  from  garments  wbea 
tanzinc  has  failed. 


1076  J. — Japanned  tea-trays  should  not  be  washed  .n  hot  water 
If  greasy,  a  little  flour  rubbed  on  with  a   bit  of  soft  linen  wi*. 
give  them  a  new  look;  if  there  are  scratches,  rub  over  a  little 
olive  oil. 


1077.  Potash  Soap. — Six  pounds  of  potash,  five  pounds  of 
grease,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  rosin  ;  mix  all  well 
in  a  pot,  and,  when  warm,  pour  on  ten  gallons  of  boiling  water. 
Boil  until  thick  enough. 

1078.  A  Superior  Receipt. — To  make  a  barrel  of  potash  soap 
(or  thirty-two  gallons),  twenty-five  pounds  of  grease,  two  pounds 
of  rosin  pulverized,  ten  pounds  of  potash  dissolved  in  twenty- 
eight  gallons  of  hot  water.  Put  the  grease  and  rosin  in  a  pot ; 
add  a  gallon  of  hot  water  to  it  as  the  grease  becomes  hot ;  stir  it 
well  just  as  it  begins  to  boil ;  add  the  hot  potash  water  slowly,  a 
few  gallons  at  once,  until  all  is  in.  Boil  until  thick  enough. 
Thw  receipt  is  reliable.     I  have  used  it  over  twenty  year*. 


1079.  Brown  Bar  Soap. — Take  thirty  gallons  of  soft  «oap 
eight  quarts  of  salt,  and  four  pounds  of  rosin  pulverized*  mi*, 
laid  boil  half  an  hour.    Tarn  it  in  tubs  to  oocl. 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  309 

Another  way  :  Put  grease  in  a  barrel ;  add  strong  ley  to  cove? 
it ;  stir  *\  in  well.  During  the  year,  as  the  grease  increases, 
■dd  more  iey,  anJ  stir  it  up  frequently ;  keep  a  stick  in  it  fof 
th.s  purpose.  This  will  become  soap  by  the  time  the  barrel  i* 
full.  To  harden  it :  Add  a  quart  of  salt  to  three  gallons  Df  soft 
*oap ;  boil  half  an  hour.  Turn  it  out  to  cocl.  Boiling  longer 
will  harder  the  soap,  without  the  use  of  salt.  The  ley  ihat 
remains  in  the  bottom  of  the  tubs  after  the  soap  becomes  hard 
should  be  taken  care  of,  and  used  for  scouring. 


1080.  To  Make  Starch. — To  make  starch  from  wheat,  aend  it 
to  the  mill  and  have  it  ground,  but  not  bolted ;  put  it  to  soak  in 
plenty  of  water  until  it  ferments.  Squeeze  all  the  milky  fluid 
from  the  bran  by  pressing  it  between  the  hands,  or  by  putting  it 
in  a  thin  bag ;  lay  in  tubs  of  cold  water,  and  press  as  long  as  any 
white  liquid  runs.  The  bran  may  then  soak  a  few  hours,  and  be 
pressed  again.  Strain  the  water  through  a  blanket.  Let  the 
starch  settle  to  the  bottom;  pour  off  the  water  carefully;  add 
fresh  water  every  day ;  stir  up  the  starch;  let  it  settle  again. 
Repeat  the  process  until  the  starch  is  white ;  cut  it  in  cakes,  and 
dry  upon  dishes.  It  is  best  to  have  a  platform  made  out-doors ; 
upon  this  place  the  tubs. 


1081  Potato  Starch. — Grate  the  potatoes  after  peeling  them, 
rub  them  through  the  hands  until  all  the  milky  fluid  has  been 
pressed  ma.  Strain  out  the  hard  part  of  the  potato.  Let  the 
water  se»  without  being  disturbed ;  the  starch  will  settle  a*  the 
bottom  ;  pour  off  the  water ;  add  fresh  water  every  day.  Stir  ur 
th«  starch :  let  it  settle  again.  Repeat  as  in  the  wheat  itaivh 
until  the  starch  is  satisfactorily  white;  then  dry.  Ke*p  in  a  dry 
place.  Frozen  potatoes  yield  more  starch  than  those  which  hav« 
D&  been  frozen,  but  uus\  be  used  immediately. 

1082.  To  Prepare  Starch  for  Use. — Wet  two  tablespconfiili 
of  starch  tj  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  water;  pour  to  it  a  pint  of 


400  Mrs.  hill's  new  cook  book. 

boiling  water;  put  it  on  the  fire;  let  it  boil,  stirring  frequently 
until  it  looks  transparent;  this  will  probably  require  half  ai 
hour.  A  id  a  piece  of  spermaceti  as  large  as  half  a  nutmeg,  01 
as  much  salt,  or  loaf  sugar — this  will  prevent  the  starch  froni 
ticking  to  the  iron. 

1083.  To  Give  a  Gloss  to  Shirt  Bosoms. — Half  an  o-moe 
of  white  wax,  the  same  quantity  each  of  gum  Arabic  and  isin- 
glass, and  ten  drops  of  alcohol ;  add  half  a  tumbler  of  boiling 
water ;  mix  well,  and  bottle  it.  To  a  quart  of  starch  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  this  preparation.  Starch  while  the  article  is  wet ,  if 
dry,  dip  it  in  hot  water,  and  wring  dry ;  then  starch.  Rub  the 
starch  in  well;  then  press  in  a  towel  to  remove  all  on  the  out- 
side. Spread  it  out ;  wipe  over  with  a  clean,  dry  cloth ;  then 
roll  snugly ;  let  it  lie  an  hour  or  two,  and  iron. 

Use  for  ironing  shirts  a  bosom-board,  made  of  seasoned  wood 
a  foot  wide,  one  and  a  half  long,  and  an  inch  thick ;  cover  it  well 
by  tacking  over  very  tight  two  or  three  folds  of  flannel,  accord 
ing  to  the  thickness  of  the  flannel.  Cover  it  lastly  with  Canton 
flannel ;  this  must  be  drawn  over  very  tight,  and  tacked  well  to 
prevent  folds  when  in  use.  Make  slips  of  fine  white  cottou 
cloth ;  put  a  clean  one  on  every  week.  A  skirt-board  must  b* 
made  in  the  same  way  for  ironing  dresses ;  five  feet  long,  tapei 
ing  from  two  feet  at  one  end  to  a  foot  and  a  half  at  the  other, 
the  large  end  should  be  round.  A  clean  slip  should  be  upon  it 
whenever  used.  A  similar  but  smaller  board  should  be  kept  foi 
ironing  gentlemen's  summer  pants.  Keep  fluting  and  crimping 
irons,  a  small  iron  for  ruffles,  and  a  polishing-iron. 


1084.  To  Starch  Muslins,  etc. — Add  to  the  starch  f'.r  fine 
muslins  a  little  white  gum  Arabic.  Keep  a  bottle  of  it  read}  fo» 
Ui>e.  Dissolve  two  ounces  in  a  pint  of  hot  water;  bottle  it;  use 
as  may  be  required,  adding  it  to  the  starch.  Muslins,  cali<  o«»s, 
etc.,  should  never  be  stifFer  than  when  new.  Rice-'v«^*»r  and 
Uinglass  stiffen  very  thin  muslins  better  than  starch. 

Old  zephyrs  can  bo  made  to  look  new  by  steaming 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  401 

For  black  calicoes:  Boil  a  strong  tea  of  fig-leaves;  mix  tht 
March  for  stiffening  with  this.  After  washing  the  article  through 
three  warm  waters,  rinse  it  in  the  fig-leaf  Ua  ;  when  nearly  r]r y 
fold;  let  it  rema'a  half  an  hour,  and  iron  immediately.  If 
starched  articles  are  not  soon  ironed  they  become  sour,  and 
if q  dire  a  disagreeable  smell.  This  is  also  the  case  if  the  starch 
It  suffered  to  stand  too  long  after  being  made.  Cover  starch 
after  it  is  made  to  prevent  its  forming  a  useless  skin.  Sperma- 
ceti, salt,  or  loaf  sugar  will  prevent  its  sticking  to  the  irons. 


1085.  To  Remove  Grease  Spots  from  Calicoes,  Muslins,  etc. — 
Cover  the  spots  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  then  wash  off  the  egg 
after  it  has  remained  half  an  hour ;  use  no  soap  on  the  spot,  but 
wash  in  suds. 


10HG.  Where  the  Colors  are  Doubtful. — Have  two  tubs  of 
4oap  suds ;  throw  a  handful  of  salt  into  each.  Prepare  three 
rinsing  waters ;  in  the  last,  put  to  each  gallon  forty  drops  of 
elixir  vitriol  and  a  teaspoonful  of  the  dissolved  gum  Arabic. 
Wash  through  the  suds;  then  rinse;  wring  well,  and  dry  in  the 
shade,  where  the  wind  will  dry  it  rapidly.  All  colored  .articles 
should  be  passed  rapidly  through  the  wash,  dried,  and  ironed  as 
expeditiously  as  possible.  If  colored  goods  fade,  wash  each 
article  to  itself,  or  the  colors  will  mingle. 

Ox-gall  sets  dark  colors  well ;  use  a  tablespoonful  to  a  gallon 
of  water.  The  smell  is  not  pleasant,  but  exposure  to  the  air  will 
«oon  destroy  it. 

Iron  muslins,  needle-work,  and  fine  embroidered  handkerchiefs 
to  the  wrong  side. 

In  washing  delicate  fabrics,  do  not  rub  them;  gently  squeeze 
and  shake  them  out;  pin  them  to  the  line,  or  to  some  large 
article,  and  take  them  in  as  soon  as  dry. 

Bran- water  is  excellent  to  uie  in  washing  colored  cottons  of 
delaines,  when  the  colors  are  not  fast.  Boil  a  peck  of  wheat 
bran  and  a  pint  of  *alt  in  five  gallons  of  water,  an  hour ;  let  it 


402 

settle;  strain  the  water;  wash  the  ai ticles  through  it,  and  rinse 
with  water  into  which  forty  drops  of  elixir  vitriol  to  the  gallon 
is  mixed.  Wash  all  such  articles  on  a  clear,  windy  day,  so  that  the 
%ir  will  dry  them  rapidly  ;  take  them  in  immediately. 


10S7.   To  Wash  Flannel. — Never  rub  soap  upon  it;  make 
luds  by  dissolving  the  soap  in  warm  water ;  rinse  in  warm  water. 
Very   cold   or  hot  water  will  shrink  flannel.     Shake  them  out 
several  minutes  before  hanging  to  dry.   Blankets  are  washed  in  the 
same  way. 

1088.  To  Wash  Bombazine. — Make  a  good  soap  suds;  add 
>x-gall,  a  tablespoonful  to  a  gallon  of  water.  Press  the  cloth 
"hrough  the  hands  without  rubbing.  Rinse  in  tepid  water,  into 
which  put  a  little  dissolved  gum  Arabic.  Shake  the  article, 
but  do  not  wring  it ;  press  it  carefully  with  a  warm  iron  on  the 
wrong  side. 

1089.  To  Wash  Ribbons. — If  there  are  grease  spots,  rub  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  upon  them,  or  French  chalk  on  the  wrong  side; 
let  it  dry.  Lay  it  upon  a  clean  cloth,  and  wash  upon  each  side 
with  a  sponge;  press  on  the  wrong  side.  If  very  much  soiled, 
wash  in  bran-water ;  add  to  the  water  in  which  it  is  rinsed  a  little 
muriate  of  tin  to  set  red,  oil  of  vitriol  for  green,  blue,  maroon, 
end  bright  yellow. 


1090.    To   Bleach     Clothes. — Dissolve   a   handful   of    refined 
borax  in  ten  gallons  of  water ;  boil  the  clothes  in  it. 

Another  way :  One  ounce  of  oxalic  acid  to  a  pint  of  water ;  a 
tumbler  of  this  to  three  gallons  o^  water.     Put  in  the  clothes 
itir  well;  then  rinse  twice.      To    whiten  brown  cloth,  boil  il 
weak  ley,  and  expose  day  and  night  to  the  sun  and  night  air 
keep  the  clothes  well  sprinkled. 


1091.    Washing  Mixture. — A  gal  on  of  water,  one  pound  of 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  403 

iftl  soda,  and  one  pound  of  soap;  boil  one  ho.i  then  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  spirits  of  turpentine.  Put  the  clothes  to  aoak 
over  ltfght;  next  morning  soap  them  well  with  the  mixture.  Bob 
well  one  hour ;  rinse  in  three  waters ;  add  a  little  bluing  to  the: 
iast  water. 
Save  all  old  cotton  and  linen  rags  in  bags  for  sickness. 


1092.   To  Remove  Spermaceti. — Scrape  it  off;  put  brown  pap  u 
on  the  spot ;  upon  that,  a  hot  iron. 


1093.  To  Remove  Grease  from  Silk  or  Worsted. — RubFrerch 
chalk  on  the  wrong  side.  Let  it  remain  a  day.  Split  a  visiting 
card  ;  lay  the  rough  side  upon  the  spot,  and  pass  a  warm  iron 
over. 


1094.  Grease  Balls. — Mix  two  ounces  of  fuller's-earth,  a  tea 
spoonful  of  pearl  ash  or  saleratus,  and  strong  vinegar  to  make 
a  stiff  paste;  make  it  into  balls;  dry  them.  Use  it  by  wetting 
the  grease  spot ;  scrape  some  of  the  ball  on  the  place ;  dry  it,  and 
then  wash  in  tepid  water. 


1095.  Stair  j  from  Acids — Can  be  removed  by  spirits  of  harts- 
norn  diluted.     Repeat  if  necessary. 


109G.  Tar  and  Pitch — Can  be  removed  by  greasing  the  place 
w;th  lard  or  sweet  oil.  Let  it  remain  a  day  and  night ;  then  wash 
in  suds.     Ii  silk  or  worsted,  rub  the  stain  with  alcohol. 


1097.  To  Remove  Oil  from  Carpets  or  Floors. — Keep  fuller'* 
eanh  upon  it  wet,  renewing  until  the  oil  is  removed.  Add  ox 
gall  to  it  to  prevent  the  colors  from  fadiLg. 


1098.  For  Rutt  and  Ink  Stains. —  Oxalic  acid  will  remove 
iron  rust  and  ink  stains.  Make  a  pint  bottle  full  by  mixing  with 
thit   quantity   of  water   half  an    ounce   of  the  acid.     Label  it 


404  MRS.    HIJ.L'8    NEAV    COOK    BOOK. 

"  Poison."  (This  cleans  brass  beautifully.)  D;p  the  stain  ii 
hot  water,  and  apply  the  acid  as  often  as  necessary.  Wash  very 
soon,  in  half  an  hour  at  least,  or  the  cloth  will  be  injured  by  tb# 
acid. 


1 09i>.  To  Remove  Mildew. — When  the  Jothes  are  washed  ai 
ready  to  boil,  pin  Jamestown  ireed  leaves  upon  the  place.  Pu 
a  handful  of  the  leaves  on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle;  lay  th« 
stained  part  next  to  them.  Green  tomatoes  and  salt,  aour  but 
term  ilk,  lemon  juice,  soap  and  chalk,  are  all  good ;  expose  to  th 
sun. 

Another  way :  Two  ounces  of  chloride  of  lime ;  pour  on  it  * 
quart  of  boiling  water ;  add  three  quarts  of  cold  water.  Steer 
the  cloth  in  it  twelve  hours. 


1100.  To  Take  Ink  Out  of  Linen. — Scald  in  hot  tallow.  Le* 
it  cool ;  then  wash  in  warm  suds.  Sometimes  these  stains  can  be 
removed  by  wetting  the  place  in  very  sour  buttermilk  or  lemon 
juice ;  rub  salt  over,  and  bleach  in  the  sun. 


1101.  For  Fruit  Stains  on  napkins,  table-cloths ,  etc. — Poui 
hot  water  on  the  spots ;  wet  with  hartshorn  or  oxalic  acid — a  tea 
ipoonful  to  a  teacup  of  water. 


1102.  Stains  from  Scorched  Goods. — Boil  scorched  articles  m 
milk  and  turpentine,  half  a  pound  of  soap,  half  a  gallon  of  milk. 
Lay  in  the  sun. 

1103.  Stains  on  Furniture. — Rub  stains  on  furniture  with 
X)ld-drawn  linseed  oil ;  then  rub  with  alcohol.  Remove  ink 
Btains  with  oxalic  acid  and  water;  wash  off  with  milk.  A  hoi 
iron  held  over  stains  upon  furniture  will  sometii  les  remove  them* 


1104.  Silver  Soap — For  Cleaning  Silver  and  Britannia. — On« 
bar  of  turpentine  soap,  three  tablcspoonfuls  of  spirits  of  turpeu* 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS.  405 

lli««,  half  a  tumble.-  of  water.     Let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  A  dd  sis 

tablesj/oonfuls  of  spirits  of  hirtshcrn.     Make  a  suds  of  this,  .Hid 
wash  silver  with  it. 


]  1 05.  Furniture  Polish. — One  pir  t  of  linsood  oil.  one  wineglaji 
*j  alcohol.  Mix  well  together.  Apply  to  the  furniture  with  a  line 
.»g.  Rub  dry  with  a  soft  cotton  cloth,  and  polish  with  a  silk  cloth1 
Furniture  is  improved  by  washing  it  occasionally  with  soapsuds. 
Wipe  dry,  and  rub  over  with  very  little  linseed  oil  upon  a  clean 
*p  »nge  or  flannel.  Wipe  polished  furniture  with  silk.  Separate 
dusting-cloths  and  brushes  should  be  kept  for  highly  polished  fur- 
niture. When  sweeping  carpets  and  dusting  walls  always  cover 
the  furniture  until  the  particles  of  dust  floating  in  the  air  settle , 
then  remove  the  covers,  and  wipe  with  a  silk  or  soft  cotton  cloth, 


1106.  Remarks  upon  House- Cleaning. — There  should  be  a  gen. 
eial  house-cleaning  every  year — in  the  spring  and  fall.  Always 
begin  up-stairs ;  clean  and  put  everything  to  rights,  and  then  de- 
«c^nd.     Whitewash  once  a  year ;  it  freshens  and  purifies. 


1 1 07.  Receipts  for  Whitewash. — One  pound  of  pulverized  alum, 
une  pound  of  rice.  Boil  these  in  four  gallons  of  water.  Bury  a 
barrel  three  parts  in  the  ground ;  pack  the  dirt  around  it  to  pre- 
vent the  escape  of  the  steam ;  put  into  it  half  a  bushel  of  un- 
slacked  rock  lime.  Pour  over  it  the  boiling  rice  water.  Stir 
well,  and  cover  for  an  hour  ;  then  add  six  gallons  of  cold  witer ; 
stir  well,  and  add  a  quart  of  alcohol ;  thin  it  if  necessary. 

Ar  >ther  Put  half  a  bushel  of  unslacked  lime  in  a  barrel ; 
co*er  it  with  hot  water;  stir  occa nonally,  and  keep  the  vessoj 
well  covered.  When  s.acked,  strain  into  another  barrel  through 
a  sieve.  Put  a  pound  of  glue  in  a  glue-pot;  melt  it  over  a  slow 
tiro  until  dissolved.  Soak  the  glue  in  cold  water  before  putting 
the  pot  over  the  fire.  Dissolve  -i  peck  of  salt  in  coiling  water. 
Make  a  thin  paste  of  three  p.unds  of  ground  rice  boiled  half  au 
hour.     Stir  to  thi^half  a  pound  of  Spanish  whiting.     Nr  k  u\* 


406  MRS.   hill's  new  cook   book. 

the  lice  paste  to  the  lime;  stir  it  in  well;  then  the  glue;  mil 
we  J;  cover  the  barrel,  and  let  it  stand  twei  ty-four  hours, 
Wnen  ready  to  use,  it  should  be  put  on  hot.  It  mattfls  a  durable 
wash  for  outside  wails,  planks,  etc.,  and  may  be  colored.  Spar. if b 
bn  wn  will  make  it  red  or  pink,  according  to  the  quantity  used 
A  delicate  tinge  of  this  is  very  pretty  for  inside  walls.  Lamp 
black  in  small  quantities  will  make  slate  color.  Finely  puh  er 
ized  clay  mixed  irith  Spanish  brown,  makes  lilac.  Yellow 
chrome  or  yellow  ochre  makes  yellow.  Green  must  not  he 
used ;  lime  destroys  the  color,  and  makes  the  whitewash  peel. 


1108.  A  Good  Whitewash. — Dissolve  two  pounds  of  potash  in 
five  gallons  of  water;  add  two  pounds  of  alum.  When  that  dis- 
solves, make  a  paste  by  stirring  into  this  a  little  flour  at  a  time 
until  ten  pounds  of  flour  is  added.  Slack  a  bushel  of  lime. 
When  cold,  incorporate  it  with  the  first  preparation. 


1109.  A  Cheap  Paint — Two  quarts  of  skimmed  milk,  tw«, 
ounces  of  fresh  lime,  five  pounds  of  whiting.  Pour  the  milk 
upon  the  lime,  stirring  well ;  it  will  make  a  mixture  resembling 
cream.  Sprinkle  the  whiting  over  the  top ;  mix  well ;  apply  with 
a  paint  brush.     This  may  be  colored. 


1110.  A  Cheap  Passage  or  Kitchen  Carpet. — Whip  together 
the  edges  of  coarse,  strong  homespun  ;  press  the  seam  until  it  liea 
flat  and  smooth.  Stretch  it  well,  and  keep  it  tacked ;  paste  some 
Dretty  pattern  of  wall  paper  upon  it  as  if  papering  a  wall. 
Whet  perfectly  dry,  varnish  with  two  coats  of  varnish. 


1111.  To  Clean  Carpets. — Shake  it  well;  tack  it  down,  and 
wash  it  upon  the  floor ;  the  floor  should  be  very  clean ;  use  cold 
soap  suds;  to  three  gallons  add  half  a  tumbler  of  beef  gall ;  this 
will  prevent  the  colors  from  fading.  Should  there  be  grease 
spots,  apply  a  mixture  of  beef-gall,  tuller's-earth,  and  water  enough 
to  form  a   paste;  put  this  on  before  Lucking  the  carpet  down 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  407 

Us*  tack*  inserted  in  small  leather  caj6.  In  &  wiping  carpet* 
use  a  soft  brush.  When  it  can  be  done,  use  straw  matting  (not 
straw)  under  the  carpets ;  they  last  much  better.  Cover  bricks 
with  carpeting;  put  behind  doors  to  prevent  the  knobs  of  lock* 
tj iking  against  walls. 


1112.   To    Wash  Matting. — Use  salt  in  the  water,  and  wij* 
diy. 


1113.  To  Wash  Oil  Cloth. —Take  equal  parts  of  skimmed 
milk  and  water  ;  wipe  dry  ;  never  use  soap.  Varnish  them  once 
a  year.  After  being  varnished,  they  should  be  perfectly  dry 
before  being  used. 

1114.  To  Make  Stair  Carpets. — Make  stair  carpets  longer 
than  necessary,  and  change  it  so  that  it  will  not  cover  the  steps  in 
the  same  way  each  time  ot  putting  down.  Moved  about  in  this 
way,  the  carpet  will  last  much  longer.  Clean  the  rods  with  cam 
phene  or  oxalic  acid.     They  should  be  kept  bright. 

1115.  To  Clean  Brass. — If  stained,  rub  over  with  oxalic  acid 
or  strong  vinegar;  polish  with  rotten-stone  pulverized  and 
whiskey  or  sweet  oil,  or  turpentine ;  then  rub  with  soft  leather  01 
Duckskin.  In  the  beginning  of  warm  weather,  when  there  is  nc 
farther  us<*  for  andirons,  wrap  them  carefully  in  tissue  paper  or 
old  silk.  I  have  3een  them  wrapped  so  tastily  with  the  formei 
as  to  make  a  handsome  parlor  ornament. 

1 1 10.  To  Clean  Papered  Walls. — Tie  a  pound  of  ginned  cot 
ton  upon  a  long  stick;  brush  the  walls  well  with  this.  When 
•oiiod,  turn  it,  or  rub  the  walls  with  stale  loaf  bread.  Split  the 
loaf,  and  turn  the  soft  part  to  the  wall. 

1117.  Tc  Wash  Paint  and  Hard  Plastered  Walls.— Use  strong 
■oda  water.  Use  the  super-carbonate  of  soda.  Soap  gives  a  yel 
Ion  tinge,  and  should  not  be  used. 


408 

1118.  To  Wash  Windows. — Wash  well  with  soap  sv.ds ;  ring* 
with  warm  water;  rub  dry  with  linen, and  finish  by  polishing  with 
•oft  dry  paper.  A  fine  polish  is  given  to  window-glass  by  brushing 
it  over  with  a  paste  of  whiting.  Let  it  dry ;  rub  off  with  paper 
01  sloth,  and  with  a  clean,  dry  brush  remove  every  particle  of 
»hf  whiting  from  the  corners.  Once  a  year  will  be  altogethei 
riflicient  for  this. 


lUSf.  7&  Wash  Glass  or  China. —  Wash  in  plenty  of  hot 
soup  suds ;  have  two  vessels,  and  in  one  rinse  in  hot  water. 
Turn  upon  waiters,  and  let  the  articles  drip  before  being  wiped. 
Use  linen  towels  for  wiping. 

1120.  To  Clean  Silver. — Wash  in  hot  soap  suds  (use  the  sil 
ver  soap  if  convenient) ;  then  clean  with  a  paste  of  whiting  and 
water,  or  whiting  and  whiskey.  Polish  with  buckskin,  or  clean 
with  camphene.  If  silver  was  always  washed  in  hot  suds,  rinsed 
well,  and  wiped  dry,  it  would  seldom  need  anything  else. 


1121.  To  Remove  Stains  from  Silver. — Steep  the  silver  in  ley 
four  hours ;  then  cover  thick  with  whiting  wet  with  vinegar ;  let 
this  dry ;  rub  with  dry  whiting,  and  polish  with  dry  <vheat  fcran. 


1122.  To  Remove  Egg  Stains  from  Silver. — Rub  with  table 
■alt  to  remove  egg  stains. 


1123.  Metal  Dish  Covers. — Wash  well  everv  time  they  are 
used  in  hot  soap-suds;  wipe  dry;  occasionally  rub  them  over 
with  a  paste  of  whiting  or  with  pulverized  rotten- stone  and  sweet 
Oil.     The  oil  should  not  be  rubbed  on  the  inside. 


11?4.  To  Clean  Knives. — Cover  a  small  heavy  table  o\ 
block  by  tacking  over  it  very  tight  soft  leather  or  buckskin ; 
pour  over  half  the  leather  melted  suet.  Spread  over  this  very 
6ne  pulverized  bath  brick  or  Tripoli ;  rub  the  knives  (making 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS,  40ft 

rapid  strokes)  jver  this.  Po»lsh  on  the  other  side.  Keep  steel 
wrapped  in  buckskin.  Knives  should  be  cleaned  e?try  day  the» 
are  used,  and  kept  sharp. 

1 125  To  Clean  Steel  Forks. — Have  a  small  box  Hied  with 
cL»an  sar_.l;  mix  with  it  a  third  the  quantity  of  soft  soap  ;  clean 
ihe  forks  by  sticking  in  the  sand  and  withdrawing  therr.  rapid  I), 
r<  pcating  the  process  until  they  are  bright. 

1 126.  To  Remove  Rust  from  Polished  Steel. — Rub  the  spots 
with  soft  animal  fat;  lay  the  articles  by;  wrap  in  thick  paper 
two  days ;  clean  off  the  grease  with  flannel ;  rub  the  spots  well 
with  line  rotten-stone  and  sweet  oil ;  polish  with  powdered  emery 
snd  soft  leather,  or  with  magnesia  or  fine  chalk. 

1127.  To  Remove  Grease  from  a  Stone  Hearth. — Lay 
plenty  of  hot  ashes ;  wash  off  (after  the  grease  is  out)  with  str 
soap  suds. 

1128.  To  Prevent  Flies  from  Settling  upon  Picture  Frame 
Brush  them  over  with  water  in  which  onions  have  been  boiled.    • 


1120.  To  Make  an  Ice  Vault  in  a  Cellar. — Dig  a  pit  eight 
or  ten  feet  square,  and  as  deep.  Lay  a  double  wall  with  brick  ; 
fill  between  with  pulverized  charcoal ;  cover  the  bottom  also 
double  \*  ;th  the  same  or  tan-bark.  If  the  pit  is  filled  with  ice,  or 
nearly  so,  cover  six  inches  with  tan-bark ;  but  if  only  a  small 
quantity  is  in  it,  wrap  well  in  a  blanket,  and  over  the  opening  in 
the  pit  lay  a  double  bag  of  charcoal.     Whitewash  cellars  often. 


1130.  To  Destroy  Rats. — Set  traps  and  put  a  few  drops  of 
ihodium  inside;  they  are  fond  of  it.  Cats  are,  however,  the 
Must  reliable  rat-traps.  There  is  no  difficulty  in  poisoning  rats; 
but  they  often  die  in  the  walls,  and  create  a  dreadful  effluvium,  hard 
to  get  rid  of.  When  poisoning  is  attempted,  remove  o/  cover  all 
water  vosscls,  even  the  well  or  <  *sti"Ti. 
18 


410  MR8     HILLS    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

1131.   To  Expel  Fleas. — Use  penny-rcyal  or   walnut   leaves t 
scatter  them  profusely  in  all  infested  places. 


1132.  To  Destroy  Flies. — Cream,  sugar,  and  ground  Mae! 
pepper  in  equal  quantities. 

1133.  To  Gel  Bid  of  Ants. — Wash  the  shelves  with  salt  ar.d 
water  ;  sprinkle  salt  in  their  paths.  To  keep  them  out  of  safes  . 
Set  the  legs  of  the  safe  on  tin  cups;  keep  the  cups  filled  wiih 
water. 


1134.  To  Prevent  Moths  from  Getting  into  Carpets  or  Woolen 
Goods. — Strew  camphor  under  a  carpet ;  pack  with  woolen  goods. 
If  moths  are  in  a  carpet,  lay  over  it  a  cotton  or  linen  cloth,  and 
iron  with  a  hot  iron.  Oil  all  cracks  in  store-rooms,  closets,  safes, 
with  turpentine  or  a  preparation  of  whiskey,  and  corrosive  sub- 
limate ;  this  drives  off  vermin. 


1135.  To  Prevent  Bed-Bugs. — For  bed-bugs  nothing  is  so  good 
as  the  white  of  eggs  and  quicksilver.  A  thimbleful  of  quick 
silver  to  the  white  of  each  egg ;  beat  until  well  mixed ;  apply  with 
a  feather. 


1136.  To  Make  Beds. — Never  make  up  beds  as  soon  as  the 
occupants  rise.  Lay  the  cover  back ;  admit  the  air  upon  the 
bed  until  the  clothing  is  well  aired.  Sun  feathers  often  •,  beM 
beds  well  every  day  they  are  used. 


1137.  To  Cleanse  Feather-Beds  without  Emptying. — Or  a  hoi 
clear  summer  day  lay  the  bed  upon  a  scaffold  ;  wash  it  well  witK 
soapsuds  upon  both  sides,  rubbing  it  hard  with  a  stiff  brinh ; 
pour  several  gallons  cf  hot  water  upon  the  bed  slowly,  and  let  it 
drip  through.  Rinse  with  clear  water;  remove  it  to  a  dry  part 
of  the  scaffold  to  dry ;  beat,  and  turn  it  two  or  three  tunes 
during  the  day.     Sun  ui  til  perfectly  dry.     The  feathers  ma>    b* 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECBIPlB.  411 

emptied  in  barrels,  washed  in  soap-suds,  and  rinsed ;  then  spread 
ir.  an  unoccupied  room  and  dried,  or  put  in  bags  made  of  tWr, 
sleazy  cloth,  and  kept  in  the  sun  until  dry.  This  kind  of  woik 
should  only  be  attempted  in  the  long,  hot  days  of  June  or  July 
The  quality  of  feathers  can  be  much  improved  by  attention  if 
his  kiud. 


1138  Beds.  Table- Cloths,  Towels,  etc. — Nothing  does  a  horse 
keeper  more  credit  than  clean,  sweet  beds  and  mattresses,  w  ith 
the  bed-clothing  washed  clean,  and  well  ironed. 

Table-cloths,  towels  and  napkins  should  be  kept  faultlessly 
white ;  table-cloths  and  napkins  starched ;  if  the  latter  are  fringed, 
whip  the  fringe  until  straight.  After  using  a  table-cloth,  lay  it 
in  the  same  folds ;  put  it  in  a  close  place  where  dust  will  not 
reach  it,  and  lay  a  heavy  weight  upon  it. 

Napkins  may  be  used  the  second  time,  if  they  are  so  marked 
that  each  person  gets  the  napkin  previously  used. 

Wipe  all  grease  and  spots  from  dishes,  butter-stand,  etc.,  all 
China,  and  glass,  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Lamps,  casters,  and  salt-cellars  should  always  be  cleansed  and 
filled  after  washing  the  breakfast  dishes.  Wash  silver  candle- 
sticks in  hot  soap-suds.  Clean  brass  ones  with  rotten-stone  and 
whiskey,  turpentine,  01  sweet  oil.  Have  the  knives  and  forks 
cleaned.  Never  defer  attention  to  such  things  until  they  are 
needed.     "  Method  is  the  soul  of  management." 

1 1 30.  To  Remove  Rust  from  Iron  Utensils. — Rub  sweet  oil 
upon  them.  Let  it  remain  two  days;  cover  with  fmely-pow- 
iered  lime;  rub  this  off  with  leather  in  a  few  hours.  Repeat  if 
Decessar) 

Tc  prevent  their  rusting  when  not  in  use:  Mix  half  a  pour. 6 
of  lime  with  a  quart  of  warm  water;  aid  sweet  cil  until  it  look* 
like  cream.  Rib  the  article  with  this ;  when  dry,  wrap  in  paper 
or  put  over  another  coat. 


1140.   Creaking  Doors. — Rub  creaking  doors  with  sr.ft  soap. 


41 1  MRS. 

1141.   To  Remove  Putty  from  Glass,  and  Paint  front  TFaWf.— 
Wet  several  times  with  strong  soda-water. 


1 1 42.  To  Clean  Marble. — Wash  with  soda,  water,  and  beef 
gall.  Or  mix  together  one  part  blue-stone,  three  pares  whiting 
one  part  soda,  and  three  parts  soft  soap ;  boil  together  ten  minutes 
Jtir  constantly.  Spread  this  over  the  marble ;  let  it  lie  half  an 
hour ;  wash  it  off  with  soap-suds ;  wipe  dry  with  (Unnel.  Repeat 
if  necessary.  Stains  that  cannot  be  removed  in  any  other  way 
may  be  tried  with  oxalic  acid  water ;  but  this  should  be  used  care 
fully,  and  not  allowed  to  remain  long  at  the  time. 

1143.  Cement  for  Stove-Pipes. — Cracks  in  stoves  and  pipes 
may  be  closed  with  a  paste  made  of  equal  parts  of  salt  and  ashes, 
wet  up  with  water. 

1144.  To  Clean  Stoves. — Clean  stoves  when  cold,  with  Britisn 
lustre,  mixed  with  strong  alum- water. 


1145.  To  Clean  Tainted  Barrels. — If  large  barrels,  put  a 
peck  of  charcoal  r^d  a  tumbler  of  saleratus  into  each  barrel ; 
pour  in  boiling  water  until  the  barrel  is  full.  Cover  close,  and 
let  it  remain  until  cold. 


1146.  To  Prevent  Moths  from  Troubling  Woolen  Goods. — 
Leaves  of  the  China  tree  strewed  among  woolen  garments  pre 
vent  moths  troubling  them.  They  also  prevent  worms  in  dried 
fruit. 


1217.  Safeguard  against  Insects. — The  common  elder  is  a 
gre.it  safeguard  against  the  devastations  of  insects.  Scatter  it 
amon^s*  wheat,  around  cucumber  and  squash-vines.  Place  it  on 
ih«  branches  of  plum  and.  other  fruit  trees  subject  to  the  ravages 
of  insects. 


1148.   Tc  Keep  Pea  and  Other  Seed  from  Being  Destroyed  1$ 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  413 

Bugs. — Keep    iiem  in   bottles,  and  put  ir   a  few  drops  of  .ur 
pen  tine. 


1140.   To  Wcsh  Hair  Brakes. — Wash  in  weak  soda-water 
dry  with  the  bristles  down. 

1150.  To  Clean  Tin- Ware. — Boil  tin  pie-plates  in  weak   ey  tc 
cleanse  them.     Do  this  occasionally. 


1141.   To  Remove  a  Glass  Stopper. — Wrap  around  it  a  hot 
cloth. 


1152.  To  Preserve  Apple  Trees  from  the  Depredations  of 
Rabbits,  etc.,  and  the  Ravages  of  Insects. — Apply  soft  soap  over 
the  body  and  branches  of  the  trees  in  March  and  September. 


1153.  To  Prevent  Skippers  in  Bacon. — One  bushel  of  slacked 
ashes,  and  one  pound  of  black  pepper,  ground;  mix  and  rub  on 
the  meat  before  hanging  to  smoke. 


1154.  To  Correct  Taint  in  Fresh  Meat,  Poultry,  etc. — Use 
Darby's  Prophylactic  Fluid.  First  wash  the  article ;  pour  ovei 
the  fluid.  If  bad,  remove  the  bone.  To  boil  a  few  lumps  of 
charcoal  with  the  meat  is  also  good. 


1155.  Cement  for  Bottles. — Three-fourths  rosin,  one-fourth 
beeswax ;  melt.  Or  use  half  a  pound  of  rosin,  the  same  quantity 
of  red  sealing-wax,  and  a  half  an  ounce  of  beeswax ;  melt,  and  as 
it  froths  up,  stir  it  with  a  tallow  cand.e.  Use  new  corks ;  trim 
(after  driving  them  in  securely)  even  with  the  bottle,  and  lip  iht 
necks  in  this  cement. 


1156.  Label  Bottles.— Label  and  date  all  bottles,  phials,  anj 
Jars. 

Keep  medicines,  poisons,  etc.,  locked  up. 


♦  14  MRS.    niLl/s    NEW    COOK    BOOK. 

1 1 57.  Vulgar  Hospitality — To  press  people  to  eat  more  fluui 
tray  wish. 

Excess  of  ceremony  shows  want  of  good  breeding.  That 
?} ,  ility  is  be3t  which  excludes  all  suoerfluous  ceremony. 

When  invited  to  partake  of  another's  hospitality,  and  the  invi 
jilion  is  accepted,  be  punctual  in  meeting  the  engagement.  If 
anforeseen  circumstances  prevent  the  engagement  being  kept, 
immediately  notify  the  person  by  sending  an  explanatory  note. 

"There  is  no  social  duty  which  the  Supreme  Lawgiver  mor# 
strenuously  urges  than  hospitality  and  kindness  to  strangers." 

"  The  perfection  of  hospitable  entertainment :  Offer  the  best  tc 
visitors ;  show  a  polite  regard  to  their  wishes ;  give  precedence 
in  all  matters  of  comfort  and  convenience." 


1158.  Concluding  Remarks. — Before  bringing  this  book  to  a 
close,  I  have  one  request  to  make  of  those  who  will  honor  my 
receipts  by  using  them,  viz.,  that  they  be  faithfully  followed. 
Few  persons  are  aware  how  much  mischief  is  done  by  evt,n 
slight  deviations.  To  illustrate:  A  friend  weighed  a  cake  in  my 
presence ;  a  small  quantity  of  flour  was  left.  She  deliberated  a  mo- 
ment, then  tossed  the  flour  into  the  cake,  saying :  w  It  is  so  much 
trouble  to  go  back  to  the  pantry  with  this,  and  just  that  little 
can  do  no  harm."  She  destroyed  the  proportions  by  adding 
more  than  the  specified  quantity  of  flour,  and  spoiled  her  cake. 

Receipts  are  often  found  fault  with,  and  thrown  aside  as  value- 
less, when  the  blame  lies  in  the  unexact  manner  in  which  they  are 
t.<  ied. 

h  has  been  said  that  "  an  author  has  a  right  to  demand  that 
his  bock  be  read  in  the  right  place  and  at  the  right  time."  A 
tuonger  claim  has  the  author  of  a  book  like  this  to  "  demand' 
Uiat  the  directions  be  correctly  carried  out ;  upon  this  depends  sue 
tess.  Much  labor  has  been  bestowed  upon  these  "Receipts.' 
Nc  effort  has  been  made  to  make  it  a  "flashy  work,"  but  a  usefu, 
one.  The  author  has  been  influenced  throughout  by  the  maxim, 
"That  nothing  is  wise  that  is  not  practical." 


EXPLANATION  OF  CULINARY  TERMS. 

Baste — To  dip  or  pour  butter,  lard,  or  some  oleagim  us  sub 
itance  upon  meat  during  the  process  of  cooking, 

Blanch — To  whiten.  When  applied  to  meat,  it  means  that  the 
article  must  be  put  in  cold  water,  and  this  raised  to  the  boiling 
point,  then  suddenly  plunged  in  cold  water. 

To  Blanch  Almonds — Pour  boiling  water  ovet  them  until  the 
brown  skin  can  be  removed. 

Bouillx — Boiled  beef. 

Bouillie — Thickened  milk  or  pap. 

Cuisine — Kitchen  cookery. 

Dredge — To  sprinkle  flour  over  meat,  gravies,  etc. 

Dredging-box — A  tin  box  ;  wch  as  is  used  for  holding  mustard 
flour,  with  a  perforated  top. 

Daube — Stewed  meat.  To  prepare  this  for  cooking:  First 
bone ;  then  spice  it ;  roll  it  in  good  shape,  and  skewer  or  bind  it 
with  tape.  It  is  usual  (though  not  necessary  where  the  meat  ia 
sufficiently  fat)  to  pass  thin  strips  of  bacon  througn  the  meat  by 
means  of  a  larding-needle ;  hence  this  process  is  called  "daubing." 

Fricassee — To  stew  chicken. 

Fricandeau — To  stew  veal 

Fillet — A  thigh  or  upper  part  of  the  leg  of  an  animal.  This  term 
is,  however,  applied  to  this  mode  of  preparing  large  fish  and 
other  flesh:  Raise  the  meat  from  the  bone  by  running  a  sharp 
A.nife  between  the  flesh  and  the  bone ;  then  take  off  the  outside 
skin  by  passing  the  knife  between  the  skin  and  the  flesh ;  cut  the 
pieces  in  good  shape  and  size. 

Glaze — Is  to  brush  melted  glazing  o\er  the  meat  once  or 
twice ;  then  let  it  cool. 

Grill— To  broil, 


i\t  MRS. 

Haricot — To  stew  meat  with  tarnips  and  olhei  vegetable! 
it  \s  also  tho  name  of  a  bean. 

Larding — To  insert  strips  of  bacon  under  the  sxin  of  m«al 
with  a  larding- needle. 

Marinade — A  highly-flavored  broth  used  in  stewing  fish  and 
taeat.  To  make  a  marinade:  Stew  together  any  vegetable^ 
liked.  Carrots,  onions,  parsley,  and  a  little  garlic  are  generally 
used ;  pepper,  salt,  spices.  When  the  strength  of  these  is  ex 
tracted,  strain,  and  add  wine  or  catsup  to  taste.  It  may  be  bot- 
tled and  kept  several  days  in  winter ,  less  time  in  summer. 

Ragout — To  stew. 

Souffle — A  puff;  a  breath.  Is  applied  to  a  very  light  delicata 
way  of  preparing  eggs. 

Sautee — Used  by  Monsieur  Soyer  to  mean  semi-frying  in  very 
little  lard  or  butter,  and  then  immediately  changing  the  appear- 
ance of  the  article  cooked  by  giving  it  the  seasoning  proper  for  a 
grill  or  a  broil,  so  that  what  seemed  at  first  a  fry  is  changed  to  a 
Droil. 

Truss — To  bind  fowls  in  good  shape  after  being  cleaned  foi 
cooking. 

Vola-vent—  This  m^ans  pastry  so  light  that  (to  appearance ) 
•  puff  of  wind  might  blow  it  away. 


f 


Mrs.  Mary  J.  HOLMES'  Works. 


DARKNESS  AND  DAYLIGHT, 

HUGH   WOETHINGTON. 

CAMERON   PRIDE. 

ROSE    MATHER. 

ETHELYN'S  MISTAKE. 

MILLBANK. 

EDNA    BROWNING. 

WEST   LAWN. 

MILDRED. 

FOREST  HOUSE. 

MADELINE. 

CHRISTMAS  STORIES. 

GRETCHEN. 


TEMPEST  AND  HUN8HINE. 

ENGLISH    ORPHANS. 

HOMESTEAD   ON   HILLSIDE. 

'LENA  RIVERS. 

MEADOW  BROOK. 

DORA  DEANE. 

COUSIN    MAUDE. 

MVRIAN  GREY. 

EDITH  LYLE. 

DAISY    THORNTON. 

CHATEAU  D'OR. 

QUE  EN  IE   HETHERTON. 

BESSIE'S  FORTUNE. 

MARGUERITE. 

DR.  HATHERN'S  DAUGHTERS. 

MRS.  HALLAM'S  COMPANION.     (New). 

OPINIONS  OF  THE  PRESS. 

u  Mrs.  Holmes'  stories  are  universally  read.  Her  admirers  are  number- 
less. She  is  in  many  respects  without  a  rival  in  the  world  of  net  ion.  Her 
characters  are  always  life-like,  and  she  makes  then:  oalk  and  act  like  human 
beluga,  subject  to  tlie  same  emotions,  swayed  by  tee  same  passions,  and 
actuated  by  ttie  same  motives  which  are  common  ainoug  men  and  women 
of  evcry-day  existence.  Mrs.  Holmes  is  very  happy  in  portraying  domestic 
life.  Old  and  young  peruse  her  stories  with  great  delight,  for  she  writes  in 
a  style  that  all  cau  comprehend."— A" ew  York  Weekly. 

THE  NORTH  AMERICAN  REVIEW,  vol.  81,  page  557,  says  of  Mrs 
Mary  .1.  Holmes'  novel  "  English  Orphaus  ":— "  \\i';li  this  novel  of  Mrs 
Holmes'  we  have  been  charmed,  aud  so  have  a  pretty  numerous  circle  of 
discriminating  readers  to  whom  we  have  lent  it.  The  characterization  is 
exquisite,  especially  so  far  as  concerns  rural  and  -village  life,  of  which 
th  re  are  some  pictures  that  deserve  to  be  hung  up  in  perpetual  memory  of 
types  of  humanity  fast  becoming  extinc*  The  dialogues  are  generally 
brief,  pointed,  and  appropriate.  The  plot  seems  simple,  so  easily  and  nat- 
urally is  it  developed  aud  consummated.  Moreover,  the  story  thus  grace- 
f  illv  constructed  and  writteu,  inculcates  without  obtruding,  not  only  puio 
Christian  morality  in  general,  but,  with  especial  point  and  power,  the 
dependence  of  true  success  on  character,  and  of  true  respectability  on 
merit." 

"  Mrs.  Holmes'  stories  are  all  of  a  domestic  character,  and  their  interest, 
therefore,  is  not  so  intense  as  if  they  were  more  highly  seasoned  with  sen- 
sationalism, but  it  is  of  a  healthy  and  abiding  character.  The  interest  in 
her  tales  begins  at  once,  and  is  maintaiued  to  the  close.  Her  sentiments 
are  so  sound,  her  sympathies  so  warm  and  ready,  and  her  knowledge  of 
manners,  character,  and  (he  varied  incidents  of  ordiuary  life  is  so  thorough, 
that  she  would  find  it  difficult  to  write  any  other  than  an  excellent  tale  if 
she  were  to  try  it."—  Boston  Banner. 


£5PThe  volumes  are  all  handsomely  printed  and  bound  in  cloth,  sold 
everywhere,  and  sent  by  mail,  postage  free,  on  receipt  of  price  [$1.50  each]. 


M& 


G.  W.  DILLINGHAM  CO.,  Publishers, 
33  WEST  23d  STREET,  NEW  YORK. 


AUGUSTA  J.  EVANS' 

MAGNIFICENT  NOVELS. 

BETJLAH, $1.76 

ST.  ELMO, 2.00 

INEZ, 1.75 

MAOARIA, 1.76 

VASHTI,               -  2.00 

INFELICE, 2.00 

AT   THE   MERCY  OP   TIBERIUS,         «  2.?0 


A  Prominent  Critic  says  of  these  Novels : 

u  The  author's  style  is  beautiful,  chaste,  and  elegant. 
Her  ideals  are  clothed  in  the  most  fascinating  imagery,  and 
her  power  of  delineating  character  is  truly  remarkable.  One 
of  the  marked  and  striking  characteristics  of  each  and  all 
her  works  is  the  purity  of  sentiment  which  pervades  every 
line,  every  page,  and  every  chapter." 


All  handsomely  printed  and  bound  in  cloth,  sold  everywhere^ 
and  sent  by  woril,  postage  free,  on  receipt  of  price,  by 

ij£Q>  G.W.  Dillingham  Co.,  Publishers, 

33  West  23d  Street,  New  York. 


