Li**e*^ 


fm 


S, 


MRS.  OWENS' 

COOK   BOOK 


AND 


USEFUL  HOUSEHOLD  HINTS. 


"Economical  household  management  and  the  mysteries  of  the  kitchen 
are  as  truly  a  part  of  domestic  culture  as  are  music,  decorative  art  and  the 
etiquet  of  the  drawing  room." 


REVISED    AND    ILLUSTRATED. 

ONE  HUNDRED  AND  FOURTH   THOUSAND. 


fl/MRS.  FRANCES  E.  OWENS. 

TO  WHICH   HAS  BEEN  ADDED  A 

FARMERS'  DEPARTMENT 

CONTAINING  MUCH  VALUABLE  INFORMATION. 


AND  THERE  HAS  STILL  FURTHER  BEEN   ADDED  CHAPTERS  ON  LUNCHES 
AND  LUNCHEONS,    POTENTIAL    ENERGY  OF  FOOD,    CHAF- 
ING DISH    COOKERY,    AND    TRANSLATIONS  OF 
FRENCH  TERMS  IN  MODERN  MENUS. 


CHICAGO: 
F.  E.  OWENS, 

6241  Kimbark  Avenue, 
IQ03 


Copyright,  1884,  by  Mrs.  FRANCES  E.  OW2NS. 
All  Rights  Reserved. 

COPYRIGHT  1903, 

By 
MRS.  FRANCES  E.  OWENS. 


i<^ 

^ui^  T 

it  w 


PREFACE. 


EVERY  housewife  has  a  notably  good  way  of  doing  certain  things.  When 
it  became  known  that  this  book  was  being  compiled,  letters  came  to  the 
editor  from  friends  living  in  all  sections,  containing  choice  cooking  recipe, 
and  hints  for  the  household,  culled  from  practical,  everyday  experiences 
In  many  cases,  the  writers  collected  from  their  immediate  friends,  thus  add- 
ing to  their  list.  The  province  of  this  book,  then,  is  to  present  a  large  num- 
ber of  these  successes  in  a  desirable  form  for  daily  reference.  The  differ- 
ent departments  will  be  found  sufficiently  elaborate  for  almost  any  occasion 
in  domestic  life.  For  the  special  benefit  of  our  sisterhood  who  unite  the 
qualities  of  wives,  mothers  and  housemaids,  the  easiest  way  has  been 
selected,  whenever  a  choice  could  be  made,  with  that  end  in  view. 

The  housewife  whose  means  are  unrestricted  need  not  study  little,  har- 
rowing details,  trying  to  make  one  dollar  do  duty  for  five  in  providing  for 
her  table.  But  the  masses  must  count  their  pennies  and  tighten  their 
purse-strings  when  tempted  to  indulge  the  appetite  beyond  a  prescribed 
limit.  There  are  suggestions  in  these  pages  which,  if  carried  out,  will  vary 
a  bill  of  fare  and  make  it  pleasing  to  the  eye  and  appetizing  to  the  palate, 
at  the  smallest  possible  outlay  of  money. 

In  the  section  devoted  to  ' '  HASH  ' '  there  are  directions  for  using  up  rem- 
nants of  food  that  will  go  very  far  towards  furnishing'  the  bulk  of  one  meal 
per  day  to  a  family.  These  dishes  are  palatable,  too,  and  very  distinct 
from  the  often  tasteless  commodity  known  by  that  name. 

The  inexpensive  CAKE  recipes  in  this  book  are  good  in  every  case,  and 
the  cakes,  if  eaten  fresh,  are  as  satisfactory  as  the  more  expensive  ones.  It 
is  to  be  hoped  they  will  be  given  a  fair  trial  before  being  frowned  upon.  It 


was  not  the  original  purpose  to  introduce  elaborate  dishes ;  but  as  all  fami- 
lies on  special  occasions  require  such,  there  are  some  interspersed. 

"THE  LAUNDRY  "  hints,  if  acted  upon,  will  add  years  to  the  lives  of  our 
women  who  toil.  This  is  actual  knowledge.  A  woman  with  a  house  full  of 
little  ones,  having  but  two  hands  to  do  the  work  which  would  give  employ- 
ment to  six,  must  husband  her  strength  if  she  would  be  spared  to  her  chil- 
dren. It  is  worse  than  folly  to  devote  ten  hours  to  a  task  which  may  be 
accomplished  in  five.  These  aids  will  make  that  difference.  Give  them 
one  month's  trial,  and  the  old  ways  will  belong  to  the  dead  past,  never  to 
be  revived. 

The  letter,  ' '  An  Old  Citizen  to  a  Young  Wife, ' '  is  from  the  pen  of  the 
well-known  author  and  poet,  MR.  JOHN  McGovERN. 

The  recipes  in  this  book  are  National,  having  been  gleaned  from  the 
extreme  East,  West,  North  and  South,  as  well  as  from  intermediate  points. 

In  submitting  this  book  to  the  public,  it  remains  only  to  say  that  the 
most  painstaking  care  has  been  exercised,  and  many  months  time  devoted 
to  the  work,  and  it  is  hoped  it  will  prove  beneficial  and  eminently  satisfac- 
tory to  the  busy  housewife. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


A.  to  C. 


C.  to  I. 


Almonds 2193.116.318 

An  Old  Citizen's  Letter. 377 

Ants — To  Destroy 475 

Baking  Powder 152 

Bed-bug  Poison 457 

Bills  of  Fare 389 

Biscuit 160-162 

Blanc-Mange 285-288 

Bread 149 

Buns 1 60 

Cake 217-284 

Candy-Making 393-397 

Canning  Fruits 318-321 

Caramel  for  Coloring 1 1 

Care  of  Beds 420-426 

Care  of  Lamps 426-427 

Catsups 126 

Cements 457  and  476 

Cereals I7I-I72 

Charlotte  Russe 295 

Cheese 282-283 

Cheese  Cakes 284 

Children's  Party 392 

Chocolate 309 

Clams 45-46 

Clarifying  Soup 12 

Clarifying  Sugar 333 

Cleaning  House 451-454 

Cochineal  Coloring 219 

Cocoa 309 

Coffee 305-308 

Colored  Plates  Described38i 

Crackers 168 

Creams 289-293 

Croquettes 107 

Croutons 10 

Cutting  up  Meats 459-462 

Carving  Meats 398-401 

Curry  Powder 1 1 1 


Custards 294 

Delmonico 302 

Digestion  of  Food. 446 

Dinner  Etiquet 384 

Diseases  of  Animals.  463 -470 

Drying  Fruits 342 

Dumplings 188 

Dyes 439-442 

Egg  Balls 10 

Eggs 63-67 

Entertainments 359-360 

Extracts 222 

Filling  for  Cake 247-248 

Fire  Kindlers 458 

Fish 29-36 

Floating  Island 294 

Fondu 282 

Food  in  Season 448 

Forcemeat  Balls 10 

Fresh  Fruits 3 1 5-3 1 8 

Fritters 193 

Frogs 62 

Frosting 223-224 

Fruit  Sauce 322-326 

Fruit  Butters 341 

Furniture  Polish  .  .  .  .450-457 

Game 49-62 

Garnishes .....  117 

Gems ....  1 66 

Glue 457 

Griddle  cakes 162-163 

Hash 103 

Heating  the  Oven 220 

Herbs lit 

Hints  to  the  Invited 387 

Honey 298 

Ice  Crea'm 300 

Ices 303 

Index 481-500 


Indigestible  Foods. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


Road -Making. 


I.  to  Q. 


R.  to  Y. 


Indigestible  Foods 447 

Ink 458 

Invalid  Cookery 401-407 

Jams 338-339 

Jellies ,,326-332 

Kalsomine 455 

Laundry 427-438 

Lard — To  Render 102 

Lime-water 152 

Lunches 360 

Marmalades 339-34° 

Meats 79-102 

Melons 317 

Meringues 296 

Mothers,  Save  Yourselves4O9 

Moths  and  Roaches 457 

Muffins 164 

Mush .172 

Noodles ii 

Nursery  Hints 407-4*11 

Oil-Cloths—To  Clean 457 

Omelets 67-68 

Paste 457 

Pickles ...-343-355 

Picnics 359 

Pies  , 174 

Pones 158 

Poultry 69-78 

Preserves 332-338 

Puddings 197-216 

PufTs 167 

Quajada 283 


Remedies     41 1-420 

Road-Making 471-474 

Rolls 159-160 

Rusk 159 

Salads 119 

Sandwiches 170 

Sauces 1 1 1 

Sausage 101-102 

Set  Table  Described 383 

Shell-Fish 37-48 

Sherbets 302 

Shortcakes 191 

Soaps 436-438 

Soups 8-28 

Soup  Powder 12 

Souffle  Vanilla 288 

Steaming  Food.  .  .81  and 221 

Substitutions 152 

Summer  Drinks 309-3 14 

Syllabub 293 

Tea 308 

Terrapin 62 

Toast 169-170 

Toilet  Articles 443-444 

Trifle 297 

Vegetables 129-148 

Vinegar 356-358 

Waffles 167 

Weights  and  Measures.  ..151 

Welsh  Rarebit 283 

Whitewash 454 

Yeast 153 


HINTS  FOR  SOUPS.      FISH.       GAME.      CHICKEN. 
GUMBO.      MEAT.       VEGETABLE. 

'  HIJfTS  FOR  SOUPS. 


CROUTONS.          FORCE-MEAT  £  ALLS.          GERMAN  SOUP-BALLS. 

EGG  BALLS.     NOODLES.     CARAMEL.     BROWNED  FLOUR. 
COL  OR  ING.     SO  UP  PO  WDER.      TO  CLARIFY.      STOCK  OR  BRO  TH. 


EEF  is  considered  the  best  soup-meat  for  a  stand- 
by ;  but  I  subjoin  recipes  that  include  other 
kinds,  all  of  which  will  be  found  palatable.  It 
is  well  to  keep  a  stock-pot  of  meat  broth  on 
hand  for  soups.  Any  bits  of  bones  or  trim- 
mings,  the  bones  from  roasts,  the  tough  ends 
from  porter-house  steaks,  or  the  cold  bits  of  cooked  meats, 
or  fowls,  should  be  put  into  it,  and  when  cooked  done  the 
broth  should  be  strained  through  a  colander,  and  into  an 
earthen  vessel,  for  future  use.  Do  not  cook  vegetables  in 
the  stock,  as  they  will  cause  it  to  sour.  Soup-stock  may  be 
made  the  basis  of  almost  any  kind  of  soup — macaroni,  ver- 
micelli, different  vegetables,  rice,  or  noodle.  Keep  it  in  a 
cool  place  ;  take  off  the  fat  that  rises. 

To  dry  parsley  or  celery,  put  in  a  slow  oven  ;  watch,  and 
when  dry  rub  lightly  to  take  out  stems,  and  cork  up  tightly 
in  a  bottle  for  gravies  or  soups. 

Sassafras  leaves,  dried  and  powdered,  are  sometimes  used 


10 

Croutons.  SOUPS.  Force-Meat  Balls. 

in  Gumbo  soup.  A  large  spoonful  to  a  pot  of  beef  soup,  put 
in  a  few  minutes  before  taking  from  the  fire,  improves  it. 

If  soups  or  sauces,  or  beef  tea,  have  an  excess  of  fat,  lay 
a  piece  of  coarse  brown  wrapping  paper  or  blotting  paper 
on  top,  and  it  will  absorb  the  fat.  Lift  the  paper,  and  the 
liquid  will  run  off.  Repeat  operation  until  freed  sufficiently. 

If  soup  is  over-salted,  add  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  a  ta- 
blespoon of  vinegar,  and  it  will  help  to  modify  it. 

Catsups  and  different  sauces  are  added  to  soups,  according 
to  the  taste  of  families. 

A  quart  of  water  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt  is  about  the  right 
proportion  to  a  pound  of  meat. 

The  soup  recipes  credited  to  Miss  Corson  were  procured 
direct  from  her  by  the  writer,  while  in  attendance  at  her 
course  of  Demonstrative  Lessons  in  Cookery.  They  are 
published  with  the  full  consent  of  Miss  Corson.  The  writer 
has  tested  them  with  much  satisfaction. 

CROUTONS. 

Cut  bread  free  from  crusts,  half  an  inch  square.  Fry  in 
smoking  hot  fat.  Keep  on  a  plate,  unless  served  immediately. 
Serve  in  pea  soup. 

EGG  BALLS. 

Yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs  mashed  fine  with  the  yolk  of 
i  raw  egg  and  a  teaspoon  of  flour.  Season  with  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  sprinkling  of  parsley. 
Make  into  balls  half  the  size  of  a  thimble  and  boil  in  clear 
water  for  two  minutes.  Add  to  the  soup  when  ready  to 
serve. 

FORCE-MEAT  BALLS. 

Take  bits  of  cooked  meat  or  fowl ;  mince  fine,  season  well, 
and  bind  together  with  an  egg.  Roll  in  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  in  balls  the  size  of  the  yolk  of  an 
egg- 


German  Soup-Balls.  SOUP.  To  Color. 

GERMAN  SOUP-BALLS. 

Mix  together  butter  and  cracker  crumbs  into  a  firm  round 
ball.  Drop  into  the  soup  a  very  short  time  before  serving. 
Very  nice  for  chicken  broth. 

NOODLES. 

Take  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  an  egg-shell  full  of 
water.  Stir  in  all  the  flour  it  will  take  ;  roll  as  thin  as  you 
possibly  can  ;  hang  over  a  chair-back  on  a  napkin  to  dry. 
Then  roll  up  like  jelly-cake  and  slice  off  as  thin  as  a  wafer. 
They  will  cook  in  1 5  or  20  minutes. 

CARAMEL. 

Caramel  for  coloring  soups  is  made  by  putting  a  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt  in  a  dry  saucepan  over 
the  fire.  Stir  constantly  till  it  is  slightly  burnt.  When  very 
dark  brown,  pour  in  less  than  a  teaspoon  of  water.  Keep 
stirring,  and  gradually  add  a  cup  of  water.  See  that  the 
sugar  is  all  dissolved.  This  gives  a  rich  color,  and  is  better 
than  browned  flour. 

BROWNED  FLOUR. 

Put  a  pint  of  flour  in  a  skillet  or  saucepan  over  a  moderate 
fire.  Stir  constantly  with  a  small  wooden  paddle,  if  you 
have  one,  until  it  is  a  dark  brown,  and  .do  not  let  it  burn- 
Put  it  away  in  a  covered  vessel  and  use  it  for  soups,  gravies, 
or  sauces.  It  requires  fully  half  as  much  more  to  thicken 
with,  than  of  unbrowned  flour. 

TO  COLOR  SOUPS. 

AMBER. 

As  soon  as  the  scum  has  been  taken  off,  put  in  grated 
carrot. 

BROWN. 
Use  caramel  or  browned  flour. 


12 

Soup  Powder.  SOUP.  To  Clarify. 

GREEN. 

Pound  the  leaves  of  spinach,  or  use  the  green  leaves  of 
celery  or  parsley.  Put  this  in  five  minutes  before  taking  up. 
Okra  also  gives  a  green  color. 

SPINACH-GREEN. 

For  coloring  various  dishes  green,  take  a  quart  of  spinach, 
wash  and  clean  carefully  ;  pound  in  a  mortar  to  extract  the 
juice.  Then  put  all  through  a  fine  sieve.  Put  the  juice  in 
a  stewpan  or  basin.  Place  this  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water 
till  it  sets.  It  should  not  boil.  Then  put  it  into  a  sieve  that 
the  water  may  drain  from  it,  and  the  clear  green  will  be  left 
for  coloring.  This  may  also  be  dried  for  future  use. 

RED. 
Take  the  pulp  and  juice  of  ripe  tomatoes. 

FOR  WHITE 

soups  use  none  but  white  vegetables  ;  for  thickening  use  rice, 
pearl  barley,  vermicelli,  or  macaroni. 

SOUP  POWDER. 

Take  an  ounce  of  as  many  of  the  following  ingredients  as 
can  be  procured  :  Thyme,  basil,  sweet  marjoram,  summer 
savory,  dried  lemon  peel,  celery  seeds,  two  ounces  of  dried 
parsley.  Dry,  pound,  sift,  and  bottle  it  tight  for  use. 

Mushrooms  can  be  dried  in  a  warm  oven  and  reduced  to  a 
powder  with  a  little  mace  and  pepper,  and  kept  for  season- 
ing soups  or  gravies. 

TO  CLARIFY  SOUP. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Skim  off  the  cold  fat  that  is  at  the  top.  Put  in  the  bottom 
of  a  saucepan  for  each  quart  of  soup-stock  the  white  and 
shell  of  one  egg  and  one  tablespoon  of  water  ;  mix,  and  then 
pour  the  soup  on.  Set  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  let  boil 
very  slowly.  As  the  soup  heats,  the  white  will  harden,  and 


13 

Stock  QJ  Broth.  SOUP.  Stock  or  Broth. 

the  egg  will  rise  to  the  surface  together  with  the  blood  and 
cloudiness  that  remain  in  the  soup.  Let  boil  slowly  until  the 
under  portion  is  very  clear  ;  then  strain  through  a  towel  laid 
in  a  colander. 

SOUP  STOCK,  OR  BROTH. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

For  clear  soup  leave  the  vegetables  whole,  simply  peeling 
them.  This  gives  all  the  flavor,  without  the  cloudiness 
arising  from  the  vegetables  cut  up.  Use  the  neck  of  beef, 
one  pound  of  meat  or  bone  for  each  quart  of  soup.  Have 
the  meat  cut  from  the  bone  in  a  solid  piece,  to  serve  after- 
ward ;  crack  the  bone  and  put  in  the  bottom  of  the  soup- 
kettle,  the  meat  and  the  bone,  then  add  cold  water.  Place 
over  the  fire  to  heat  gradually  ;  as  it  boils,  the  blood  and 
albumen  will  rise.  For  clear  soup,  this  must  be  skimmed  off. 
It  is  never  necessary  to  wash  meat  if  it  comes  from  a  clean 
market  ;  it  detracts  from  its  flavor  and  nutriment.  Add  a 
carrot,  turnip,  and  an  onion  for  3  or  4  quarts.  Stick  six  or 
eight  cloves  in  the  onion  ;  salt  and  pepper  lightly  ;  add  a 
bouquet  or  fagot  of  herbs  ;  a  small  bunch  of  parsley  (two 
tablespoons),  take  the  roots  if  you  wish  the  green  for  a  gar- 
nish ;  the  green  stalk  of  celery  is  nice  to  add.  A  sprig  of 
any  kind  of  dried  sweet  herb,  except  sage,  and  one  bay  leaf. 
A  single  leek  may  be  used  instead  of  the  onion.  If  wished 
for  the  gelatinous  property,  a  knuckle  of  veal  may  be  added 
to  the  soup  stock.  Cook  slowly  two  hours  after  adding  the 
vegetables  ;  that  time  will  secure  the  flavor.  If  cooked 
longer,  it  will  assume  a  jellied  consistency.  Strain  through 
a  sieve,  or  through  a  folded  towel  laid  in  a  colander  into  an 
earthen  vessel,  not  in  metal.  When  cold,  remove  the  fat 
that  rises.  This  soup  is  perfectly  clear. 

N.B. — If  it  is  desired  to  have  it  very  light-colored,  use 
veal  instead  of  beef.  A  calf's  foot,  the  skin  from  the  head, 
or  an  old  fowl  may  be  used  with  good  results  in  this  stock. 


14 

Oyster.  SOUP.  Lobster. 

If  very  rich  soup  is  wished  for,  use  only  a  pint  of  water  to 
each  pound  of  meat.  The  flesh  of  old  animals  contains 
more  osmazome  than  that  of  the  young.  It  is  this  property 
that  gives  flavor  and  perfume  to  the  stock.  Brown  meat 
contains  more  than  white,  and  the  brown  is  more  fragrant. 
The  osmazome  reaches  its  height  by  roasting.  So  that  the 
remnants  of  roasts  give  a  good  flavor  to  stock. — AUTHOR. 


FISH  SOUPS. 

OYSTER.  CLAM.  LOBSTER.  FISH. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

One  quart  large  fresh  oysters.  Take  liquor  and  \\  pints 
water  ;  boil  and  skim  off  carefully  the  scum  that  rises  ;  then 
add  2  or  3  quarts  fresh  milk  ;  put  in  I  dozen  oyster  crackers 
rolled  very  fine  ;  2  large  spoons  of  butter  ;  season  lightly 
with  salt.  As  soon  as  this  becomes  boiling  hot,  put  in  oys- 
ters. When  it  begins  to  boil,  take  up  at  once.  Many  per- 
sons prefer  oyster  soup  without  milk.  The  mode  of  cooking 
is  the  same,  except  that  more  butter  should  be  used,  and 
water  instead  of  milk. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

TaKe  50  large  clams  and  chop  fine.  To  their  liquor  add 
3  quarts  of  water,  and  boil.  Add  the  clams,  and  cook  from 
3  to  5  minutes.  Mix  \  cup  of  butter  with  same  quantity  of 
flour  very  smoothly  and  stir  into  the  soup  with  a  quart  of 
fresh  milk.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Set  on  back  of 
stove  and  stir  in  4  well-beaten  eggs,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 
Add  more  butter  if  wanted  richer. 

LOBSTER  SOUP. 
Take  a  large  lobster  from  the  shell  after  it  is  boiled  ;  cut 


15 

Pepper- Pot  SOUP.  Catfish, 

small  and  mix  it  with  3  rolled  soda  crackers.  Into  a  stew- 
pan  put  a  quart  of  milk  and  a  quart  of  water  with  a  pod  of 
red  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  When  boiling  hot,  add  the  lob- 
ster, and  the  green  inside  if  liked,  and  a  full  cup  of  butter, 
and  boil  10  minutes.  Serve  hot. 

PEPPER-POT. 

Take  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl,  as  nearly  equal  parts  as  you  can 
get.  Cut  up  small  some  lean  mutton  or  beef,  any  fish,  or  the 
meat  from  a  lobster,  and  a  chicken  or  other  fowl  cut  into 
joints.  A  tablespoon  of  rice  and  other  vegetables  that  may 
be  fancied.  Pour  over  sufficient  water  and  simmer  slowly. 
Skim  it  well.  When  well  cooked,  season  with  cayenne  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.  . 

PUREE  OF  FISH,  OR  CREAM  SOUP  OF  FISH. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

A  pound  of  cold  boiled  fish  will  make  about  2  quarts  of 
soup.  It  must  be  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve.  For  each 
quart  take  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  same  of  flour,  mix  smooth 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  and  add  a  quart  of  milk,  or  milk 
and  water  ;  then  add  the  sifted  fish.  Any  game  or  vegetable 
soup  may  be  made  the  same  way. 

BROWN  FISH  SOUP. 

Any  kind  of  fish  will  answer  ;  cut  in  small  pieces  ;  roll  in 
flour  and  brown  in  some  olive  oil  or  butter  in  a  saucepan  ; 
cover  with  hot  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  boil 
slowly  for  about  15  minutes.  See  that  there  is  plenty  of 
water.  One  pound  will  make  a  quart  of  soup.  A  clove  of 
garlic  may  be  added. 

CATFISH  SOUP. 

Take  2  large  or  4  small  catfish.  Clean  well,  cut  off  the 
heads,  skin  them.  Cut  them  in  3  pieces,  put  into  a  soup- 
kettle  with  i  pound  of  lean  bacon,  a  sliced  onion,  a  bunch 


i6 

Game.  SOUP.  Green  Turtle. 

of  minced  parsley,  salt  to  taste,  and  water  sufficient,  and 
cook  till  the  fish  are  tender,  but  not  broken.  Add  to  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  of  flour,  and  a  cup 
of  milk.  Mix  and  add  to  the  soup.  Pepper  if  liked. 


GAME  SOUPS. 

GAME.  GREEK  TURTLE.  RABBIT.  PARTRIDGE. 

A  GOOD  GAME  SOUP. 

In  the  game  season,  a  good  soup  may  be  prepared  at  very 
little  expense,  and  by  using  the  remnants  of  different  dishes 
a  very  agreeable  flavor  will  be  imparted.  Take  the  legs  and 
bones,  break  up,  and  boil  in  some  broth  for  an  hour,  putting 
in  all  the  meat  from  the  breasts  of  birds  left  over.  Boil  4  or 
5  turnips  and  mash  them  fine.  Then  pound  the  meat  up  fine 
and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve.  Put  the  broth  a  little  at  a 
time  through  the  sieve.  Heat  it  all  up  together  in  the  soup- 
kettle.  Do  not  boil.  Mix  the  yolks  of  3  or  4  eggs  with  J  a 
pint  of  cream.  Stir  into  the  soup  and  remove  just  as  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  as  boiling  curdles  it. 

GREEN  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Chop  the  entrails  (some  cooks  do  not  use  the  entrails), 
bones,  and  coarse  parts  of  the  turtle  meat,  and  put  into  a 
gallon  of  water,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  2  onions,  pep- 
per and  salt.  This  must  cook  slowly  but  constantly  for  4 
hours.  In  the  meantime  simmer  the  fine  parts  of  the  turtle 
and  the  green  fat  for  I  hour  in  ^  gallon  of  water.  This  must 
be  added  to  the  above  soup  after  straining  the  latter,  at  the 
end  of  the  4  hours'  boiling.  Thicken  slightly  with  browned 
flour,  then  simmer  all  together  for  another  hour.  If  there 
are  eggs  in  the  turtle  boil  them  alone  in  clear  water  for  3  or 
4  hours  and  add  to  the  soup  before  serving.  If  not,  use  force- 


17 

Rabbit  SOUP.  Partridge. 

meat  balls.  At  the  last  add  the  juice  of  i  lemon.  For  the 
force-meat  balls,  take  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed 
fine  with  6  tablespoons  of  chopped  turtle  meat,  I  tablespoon 
of  butter  and,  if  you  have  it,  a  little  liquor  of  oysters.  Sea- 
son with  mace,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  ^  a  teaspoon  of  white 
sugar.  Bind  together  with  a  raw  egg.  Roll  into  small  balls 
dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  in  rolled  cracker,  fry  in  butter,  and 
drop  into  the  soup  as  before  directed. 

BROWN  RABBIT  SOUP. 

Cut  at  the  joints,  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  butter  until  a  nice 
brown,  and  put  into  a  soup-kettle.  Add  3  onions,  also  fried 
brown.  To  2  large  rabbits  allow  fully  3  quarts  water.  Pour 
it  over  boiling  hot.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  salt ;  skim  frequently 
and  carefully  until  it  looks  clear.  Add  a  sprig  of  parsley,  3 
or  4  carrots,  and  season  writh  whole  peppercorns.  Boil  gently 
for  half  a  day.  Season  more  highly  if  necessary.  Strain,  let 
cool,  skim  off  the  fat.  Heat  it  afresh  for  serving,  and  send 
to  the  table  with  croutons. 

RABBIT  SOUP. 

Sometimes  rabbits  or  hares  will  be  found  very  tough.  They 
can  then  be  made  into  soup  that  is  excellent.  Crack  the 
bones  of  2  rabbits  and  boil  with  i  pound  of  ham  or  salt  pork 
cut  up  small.  Chop  3  small  onions  and  put  in,  with  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs.  Stew  in  3  quarts  of  water  slowly  for  3  hours. 
Season  and  strain.  Thicken  slightly  with  browned  flour, 
wet  with  cold  water.  Add  tablespoon  of  catsup  and  tea- 
spoon of  Worcestershire  or  some  other  kind  of  sauce. 

PARTRIDGE  SOUP. 

Clean  3  partridges,  dredge  them  with  flour  and  roast 
until  they  are  half  done,  basting  frequently.  Take  the 
flesh  from  the  breasts  and  put  aside.  Joint  the  remainder 
of  the  birds,  and  stew  gently  in  3  quarts  of  strong  beet 
broth  for  2  hours.  Strain,  and  let  cool.  Press  the  meat 


Giblet.  SOUP.  l»ota*e. 

from  the  bones.  Then  take  all  of  the  meat,  including  the 
breasts,  mince  fine,  and  pound  smooth  with  half  its  bulk  of 
butter  and  some  dry  bread-crumbs.  Season  with  salt  and 
cayenne,  mace,  and  nutmeg.  Moisten  with  2  or  3  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  make  into  balls  half  the  size  of  a  thimble.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  soup,  and  put  the  soup  on  to  heat.  When 
it  boils  add  the  balls  and  cook  about  10  minutes.  Grouse 
and  partridge  together  make  a  very  fine  soup. 


CHICKEJJ  SOUPS. 

GIBLET.      POT  AGE.      CHICKEN.      DUMPLINGS.     DRESSING. 

GIBLET  SOUP. 

Take  a  turnip,  carrot,  and  onion,  and  slice  them,  and  fry 
in  hot  butter  ;  add  the  giblets,  sprinkled  with  flour,  let  them 
brown  and  then  add  the  amount  of  water  required.  Sim- 
mer 4  or  5  hours.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  thicken 
with  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour.  Take  yolks  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  put  one  in  each  plate  of  soup  when  it  is 
served.  The  giblets  of  i  chicken  will  make  but  little  more 
than  a  quart  of  good  soup. 

POTAGE  A  LA  REINE. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Take  bits  of  cold  chicken,  same  quantity  of  rice,  boil  to- 
gether till  very  tender.  Rub  through  a  sieve  ;  then  make 
of  the  consistency  of  cream,  with  boiling  milk.  Season  to 
taste,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  One  pound  of 
chicken  and  i  pound  of  rice  will  make  4  quarts  of  soup. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

In  order  to  serve  the  fowls  for  dinner,  tie  the  feet  down 
and  turn  the  wings  back  before  putting  over  to  boil.  Allow 


19 

Chicken.  SOUP.  White. 

2  quarts  of  water  for  each  fowl.  When  half  done,  add  2 
tablespoons  of  rice  for  each  chicken.  Before  serving,  add 
a  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  a  little  thickening  of  flour  (per- 
haps 2  teaspoons)  and  water,  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley. 
Make  a  drawn-butter  dressing  for  the  chicken. 

CHICKEN  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Get  a  fat  hen.  After  washing,  put  it  whole  into  a  porce- 
lain kettle  with  a  gallon  of  water  ;  boil  2  hours.  Slice  3  or 

4  Irish  potatoes,  I  large  onion,  I  or  2  tablespoons  of  chopped 
parsley,   I   teaspoon  of  celery  seed,  and  a  bit  of  summer 
savory  if  you  have  it ;  J  a  red  pepper-pod,  salt  to  taste. 
When   the  soup  has  boiled  I  hour,  add  the  vegetables,  and 
when  nearly  done  put  in  I  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

DUMPLINGS  FOR  THE  ABOVE  SOUP. 

One  pint  of  flour,  i  dessert-spoon  of  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt; 
mix  with  cold  water  and  roll  thin,  cut  in  small  pieces,  put 
in  soup,  and  let  them  boil  about  20  minutes.  Thicken  with 
a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  cream.  Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

DRESSING  FOR  THE  ABOVE  CHICKEN. 

Take  I  pint  of  the  soup,  i  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  4  or 

5  hard-boiled   eggs   chopped   fine,   i    tablespoon    of  flour 
rubbed  in  the  butter.    Let  it  boil,  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 

WHITE  CHICKEN  SOUP. 

|  pound  of  cold  poultry. 
J  pound  of  sweet  almonds. 
A  slice  of  dry  bread. 
A  shred  of  lemon  peel. 
A  blade  of  mace  pounded, 
ij  cups  of  cream. 
Yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs. 
2  quarts  of  white  stock. 

Pound  the  almonds  to  a  paste  with  a  spoon  of  water. 
Add  the  meat,  which  should  have  been  pounded  with  the 


2O 

Fela.  SOUP.  Gumbo. 

bread.  Beat  all  together.  Add  the  chopped  lemon  peel 
and  the  mace.  Heat  the  stock  to  boiling  and  pour  over  the 
mixture  and  simmer  for  an  hour.  Mix  the  egg  with  the 
cream,  add  to  the  soup,  let  boil  up  and  serve  immediately. 


GUMftO  SOUPS. 

SOUTHERN  FELA.          KENTUCKY.  MISSISSIPPI. 

SOUTHERN  GUMBO  FELA. 

.Take  an  onion  and  cut  it  up  fine  ;  let  it  fry  a  light  brown 
in  2  tablespoons  hot  lard  ;  dust  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour 
and  stir  all  the  time  to  keep  from  burning,  and  in  a  few 
minutes  it  will  be  brown.  Pour  in  boiling  water  as  much 
as  will  serve  the  family,  allowing  for  boiling  down.  Have 
a  nice  fat  chicken  cut  up  ;  put  in  the  pot  and  boil  until  ten- 
der. Take  50  oysters  from  the  liquor,  and  strain  to  remove 
all  pieces  of  shell  ;  put  the  liquor  in  a  stewpan,  let  it  boil 
up  once,  then  skim  and  put  the  liquor  in  the  pot,  and  sea- 
son with  salt,  black  and  red  pepper,  also  a  small  piece  of 
garlic;  after  letting  it  boil  15  minutes,  add  the  oysters; 
take  2  tablespoons  of  fela  and  dust  in,  stirring  all  the  time. 
As  soon  as  it  boils  once,  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Always  serve 
with  boiled  rice. 

NOTE. — Fela  is  prepared  by  the  Southern  Indians,  and  is 
simply  the  young  leaves  of  the  sassafras,  dried  in  the  shade 
and  pulverized  with  a  few  leaves  of  the  sweet  bay.  In  the 
summer,  young  okra  pods  are  used  in  place  of  fela. 

KENTUCKY  GUMBO  SOUP. 

William  H.  Rochester,  Bowling   Green,  Kentucky. 

Six  squirrels  or  2  chickens.  Cut  up  small  and  cook  till  the 
flesh  falls  from  the  bones.  Then  take  a  handful  of  sassafras 


21 

Meat.  SOUP.  Bouillon. 

buds  for  a  gallon  of  soup,  either  green  or  dried  (put  in  a 
bag  in  the  soup),  and  I  quart  of  okra,  2  onions,  cut  fine,  6 
large  Irish  potatoes  cut  in  dice,  a  grated  carrot,  and  a  lit- 
tle cabbage.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When  done,  take 
out  the  sassafras  bag  and  remove  the  buds  and  squeeze  the 
bag.  Use  a  pod  of  red  pepper.  Thicken  with  scorched 
flour. 

MISSISSIPPI  GUMBO  SOUP. 

Mrs.  J.   R.  Jackson,  Centerville,  Miss. 

First  fry  a  large  tender  chicken  very  brown  ;  then  remove 
on  a  dish  and  fry  a  quart  of  sliced  okra  in  the  gravy.  Add 
this  to  the  chicken,  but  do  not  add  the  grease.  Put  the 
chicken  and  okra  in  a  tin  or  porcelain  vessel  of  cold  water. 
Add  a  pint  of  peeled  tomatoes  sliced,  one  large  silver-skin 
onion,  a  few  chips  of  canvassed  ham,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Cook  slowly  for  an  hour,  then  add  I  dozen  soda  crackers,  I 
large  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  a  teaspoon  of  black  pepper, 
Never  boil  pepper  in  soup.  To  make  it  more  palatable  and 
very  rich,  add  half  a  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs. 


MEAT  SQU&S. 

BEEF.  VEAL.  MUTTON.  MISCELLANEOUS. 

BOUILLON. 

(THE  CHEAP,  WHOLESOME,  AND  COMMON  SOUP  OF  FRANCE.) 
Take  7  or  8  pounds  of  the  leg  or  shin  of  beef.  Cover  it 
well  with  cold  water  in  a  soup-kettle.  Let  it  heat  slowly. 
As  it  does  so,  the  fibers  of  the  meat  enlarge,  the  gelatinous 
substance  dissolves,  the  albumen — the  part  which  produces 
the  scum — frees  itself  and  rises  to  the  surface,  and  the 
osmazome  (the  most  savory  part  of  the  meat)  is  diffused 
through  the  soup.  If  it  is  allowed  to  cook  rapidly,  the 


22 

\Ox-Tail.  SOUP.  Veal. 

albumen  coagulates,  the  meat  hardens  so  that  the  water 
cannot  penetrate  it,  and  the  osmazome  cannot  disengage 
itself.  Add  about  a  tablespoon  of  salt  to  each  half  gallon. 
This  causes  more  scum  to  rise.  Clear  it,  and  put  in  2  large 
carrots,  2  turnips,  2  onions,  I  head  of  celery,  3  whole 
cloves,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  2  young  leeks,  ^  a  teaspoon  of 
peppercorns,  and  a  bunch  of  soup  herbs.  Stew  very  gently 
and  constantly  for  4  or  5  hours.  The  beef  will  then  be 
very  tender  and  juicy.  The  meat  may  be  dished  up  on  a 
platter,  and  the  vegetables  may  be  laid  around  it,  or  not — 
a  matter  of  choice.  The  soup  will  be  better  if  not  served 
until  the  next  day.  Then  the  fat  may  be  removed  when 
cold.  Strain  the  soup  through  a  sieve,  heat,  and  send  to  table 
with  fried  or  toasted  bread.  It  is  often  served  with  crusts 
or  slices  of  dry  bread  put  into  the  tureen  and  let  soak  in 
the  soup  for  a  short  time, 

BEEF  SOUP  WITH  RICE. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Smith,  Chicago. 

Boil  a  beef  bone  till  the  meat  is  well  cooked.  Half  an 
hour  before  dinner,  put  in  J  cup  of  rice.  Season  well. 

OX-TAIL  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Elliott  Durand,  Chicago. 

One  ox-tail,  2  pounds  lean  beef,  4  carrots,  3  large  onions, 
bunch  of  thyme.  Cut  the  ox-tail  in  pieces,  fry  brown  in 
butter  ;  remove  and  fry  onions  and  2  carrots.  Place  the  fried 
vegetables  and  ox-tail  in  a  soup-pot  with  the  thyme  and  the 
beef  cut  in  slices ;  grate  in  the  2  carrots,  and  pour  over  4 
quarts  of  water.  Boil  slowly  4  hours  ;  strain,  and  thicken 
with  2  tablespoons  of  flour.  Add  a  tablespoon  each  of  salt 
and  sugar.  The  juice  of  half  a  lemon  improves  the  flavor. 

VEAL  SOUP. 

Put  a  knuckle  of  veal  into  3  quarts  cold  water;  salt  it,  and 
add  i  small  tablespoon  raw  rice.  Let  simmer  4  hours,  when 


23 

Mock  Turtle.  SOUP.  Mutton. 

it  should  be  reduced  half.  Remove.  Into  the  tureen  put 
the  yolk  of  I  egg,  mixed  with  a  cup  of  cream  or  new 
milk.  Add  a  small  lump  of  butter.  Strain  the  soup  on  to 
this,  stirring  all  the  time.  Beat  it  a  moment  at  the  last. 

VEAL  SOUP  WITH  VEGETABLES. 

Put  a  knuckle  of  veal  into  a  gallon  of  cold  water.  When 
heated  through,  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  as  it  boils 
skim  very  carefully.  Put  in  a  pod  of  red  pepper  if  you  have 
it.  Let  cook  slowly  for  3  hours,  adding  hot  water  if  needed 
for  the  quantity  of  soup  desired.  Add  ^  a  pint  of  finely 
.shredded  cabbage,  double  the  quantity  of  sliced  raw  pota- 
toes, a  carrot  cut  small,  a  head  of  celery,  and  3  large  onions 
sliced.  You  may  also  add,  if  you  like,  3  sliced  tomatoes,  a 
turnip  cut  in  dice,  and  a  couple  of  ears  of  green  corn  cut 
from  the  cob.  Let  cook  fully  |  of  an  hour. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Boil  a  calf's  head  and  feet  until  the  meat  separates  from 
the  bones.  Remove  the  bones  and  cut  the  meat  into  inch 
pieces.  Put  into  the  soup-kettle  and  boil  2  hours  longer. 
Add  the  chopped  brains,  8  small  onions  sliced,  a  tablespoon 
(or  more)  of  parsley  ;  season  with  mace,  cloves,  and  salt. 
When  nearly  done,  make  German  soup-balls  of  half  a  dozen 
soda  crackers  (see  directions  on  page  n),  and  drop  in  ;  add 
also  enough  caramel  to  color.  Make  force-meat  balls  of  veal 
and  put  into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over. 

MUTTON  SOUP. 

Columbia  Loving,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

Put  a  mutton  bone  on  to  cook  in  3  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Let  it  cook  slowly  2  hours.  Skim  it,  salt  it,  add  hot  water,  if 
necessary,  and  to  2  quarts  of  broth  add  ^  cup  of  green  corn, 
same  of  butter  beans,  2  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  2 
Irish  potatoes,  of  medium  size,  peeled  and  cut  fine.  Cook  i 
hour.  As  the  fat  of  mutton  congeals  so  quickly,  serve  this 


24 

Stock.  SOUP.  Victoria. 

soup  in    hot  soup-plates.     Indeed,  it  is  better  to  heat  the 
plates  for  any  kind  of  soup. 

STOCK  SOUP. 

When  it  is  desired  to  make  soup  from  stock,  heat  it  to 
boiling,  add  water,  if  needed,  and  the  prepared  vegetables 
cut  small,  noodles,  or  whatever  is  to  be  used,  with  the  proper 
seasoning.  Season  lightly  with  salt,  and  do  not  add  pepper 
until  it  is  done. 

CONFEDERATE  ARMY  SOUP, 

AS  MADE  AT  GENERAL  PICKETT'S    HEADQUARTERS. 
Lieut.  Col.  S.  G.  Leitch. 

One  ham  bone,  i  beef  bone,  i  pod  red  pepper,  I  pint 
black-eyed  peas.  Boil  in  a  mess-kettle  in  2  gallons  salted 
water.  Splendid  soup  for  a  wet  day. 

WREXHAM  SOUP. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

One  pound  of  lean  meat  cut  in  small  pieces,  either  beef  or 
mutton.  Peel  and  slice  I  large  or  2  small  carrots,  i  large 
turnip,  6  medium-sized  onions,  a  pint  of  tomatoes,  a  green 
stalk  of  celery,  if  in  season,  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley. 
Tie  up  the  parsley,  celery,  a  dozen  cloves,  same  of  pepper,  a 
sprig  of  any  sweet  herb,  except  sage.  Put  in  a  saucer  a 
tablespoon  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  a  saltspoon  of 
pepper ;  mix,  and  put  all  these  ingredients  in  layers  in  a  jar, 
and  2  quarts  of  cold  water.  Paste  the  cover  on,  and  bake 
slowly  5  hours. 

VICTORIA  SOUP. 

A  CHEAP  PALATABLE  MEAT  SOUP. 

Save  all  the  bones  and  trimmings  from  roasts  and  steaks 
of  any  kind  of  meat.  They  will  keep  several  days  in  cool 
weather.  Put  into  a  kettle  with  a  gallon  of  cold  water  and 
half  a  cup  of  dry  beans  and  a  large  ripe  tomato,  or  some 


25 

Barley.  SOUP.  Mushroom. 

canned  tomatoes.  Cook  gently  for  two  hours,  then  strain 
through  a  colander.  Put  back  into  the  soup-kettle,  add  a 
carrot  and  three  large  potatoes  cut  in  dice,  a  sliced  onion, 
salt,  and  a  spoon  of  soup  powder.  In  15  minutes  beat  up 
an  egg  with  a  cup  of  flour  and  stir  into  the  soup  ;  let  boil 
10  minutes  and  serve. 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS. 

BARLEY.  CHESTNUT.          MUSHROOM.  VERMICELLI. 

BARLEY  SOUP. 

Put  a  cup  and  a  half  of  barley  into  3  quarts  of  water,  with  3 
large  onions,  4  carrots,  and  2  turnips — all  cut  small.  Cook 
gently  2  hours.  Add  a  neck  of  mutton  with  a  pound  of 
lean  ham.  Salt  to  taste.  Cook  2  hours  longer.  Add  pep- 
per at  the  last. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP. 

Boil  a  quart  of  chestnuts  and  rub  the  meats  through  a 
fine  sieve  with  a  potato  masher.  Take  a  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  mix  smooth  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  add  gradually  a  quart  of  milk.  When  scalding  hot, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  and  add  the  sifted 
chestnuts. 

MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

Wm.  H.  Rochester,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

Use  milk  fresh  from  the  cow.  Cook  the  mushrooms  in 
water,  with  salt  to  flavor.  Use  a  silver  spoon  to  stir  the 
mushrooms  ;  if  the  spoon  turns  black,  discard  the  mush- 
rooms. Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  pour  in  the  milk.  You  can 
use  more  or  less  according  to  the  quantity  of  soup  required, 
A  few  mushrooms  will  flavor  a  large  dish. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP. 
To  5  quarts  of  water,  allow  a  slice  of  corned  ham,  I  pound 


26 

Julienne.  SOUP  Okrm. 

of  veal,  and  4  of  lean  lamb.  Cut  the  meat  up  small,  heat  it 
very  gradually,  and  cook  slowly  till  the  meat  is  very  tender. 
Season  with  salt,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  bit  of  onion,  if 
liked,  a  spoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  When  these  have  all 
boiled  for  10  or  15  minutes,  strain  and  return  to  the  soup- 
kettle.  In  the  meantime  have  J  or  ^  of  a  pound  of  vermi- 
celli or  macaroni  broken  up  small,  and  boiled  in  clear  water 
for  20  minutes.  Drain  and  add  to  the  soup,  boil  up  once 
and  serve. 

JULIENNE  SOUP. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Use  vegetables  of  at  least  3  colors;  carrots,  turnips,  and 
either  lettuce,  celery,  cabbage,  or  string  beans.  Cut  the  veg- 
etables into  strips  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  and  these  strips 
into  match-like  pieces,  very,  very  thin.  Keep  in  cold  water 
till  wanted.  The  proportion  of  vegetables  is  a  cup  full  all 
together  for  a  gallon  of  soup.  Put  each  kind  separately  into 
boiling  salted  water.  When  tender,  drain  and  lay  in  cold 
water.  This  way  retains  the  flavor  and  color  perfectly. 
Then  dish  up  in  the  hot  soup  stock.  Foreigners  add  a 
tablespoon  of  vinegar  to  a  quart  of  Julienne  soup. 

OKRA  SOUP. 

Take  a  joint  of  beef  with  the  marrow,  or  a  knuckle  of 
veal,  or  a  fowl,  whichever  can  be  had.  Put  to  cook  in  a  gal  • 
Ion  of  water;  salt  and  skim  it.  After  cooking  an  hour  slowly, 
add  2  quarts  of  okra  cut  small.  In  another  hour,  add  I  cup  of 
Lima  beans.  In  another  hour,  2  young  cymlings,  a  quart  of 
tomatoes,  and  2  onions,  all  cut  small,  and  I  or  2  sprigs 
of  parsley.  Cook  2  hours  more,  and  thicken  with  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  mixed  with  i  of  flour. 

WHITE  SOUP. 

Six  tomatoes,  4  onions,  3  tomatoes,  if  desired,  4  table- 
spoons of  crushed  tapioca,  i  J  pints  milk;  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.  Boil  the  vegetables  in  2  quarts  ot  water  till  soft,  rub 


27 

Tohnato.  SOUP.  Pea. 

through  a  sieve,  return  the  paste  to  the  water,  add  the  tapi- 
oca, and  boil  15  minutes  ;  season,  add  the  milk,  and  as  soon 
as  hot  serve. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Take  6  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled,  or  use  half  a  can.  Cook 
in  a  pint  of  water  till  done.  Stir  in  \  teaspoon  soda,  add  a 
quart  of  milk,  season  well  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  serve  as  soon  as  it  boils.  It  is  quite  apt  to  curdle  if 
not  soon  removed  from  the  fire. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  3  or  4  large  potatoes,  and  boil  in 
enough  water  to  cover  them  until  done.  Then  season  and 
add  a  quart  of  milk. 

ONION  SOUP. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  with  6 
large  white  onions  cut  in  slices  ;  let  them  fry  a  nice  brown, 
then  add  6  crackers  rolled,  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  quart  of 
boiling  milk  and  water;  let  it  simmer  for  15  minutes  and 
serve. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Allow  a  pint  of  shelled  peas  to  a  quart  of  water.  Cook 
till  soft,  then  skim  out  and  rub  through  a  colander  back  into 
the  soup-kettle  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked. 
Boil  \  hour  longer,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  For  3 
quarts  of  soup  make  a  thickening  of  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
mixed  with  \  cup  of  rice  flour,  if  you  have  it,  (if  not,  use  2 
tablespoons  of  common  flour),  stir  well  from  the  bottom  and 
remove  as  soon  as  cooked  through.  The  soup  should  be  of 
the  consistency  of  good  cream. 

PEA  SOUP. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson,  New  York  City. 

A  pint  of  dried  peas  or  beans  will,  make  6  quarts  of  soup. 
Use  split  yellow  peas.  If  put  on  to  cook  in  cold  water,  add 


28 

Green  Corn.  SOUP.  Bean. 

half  a  cup  of  cold  water  every  15  minutes.  Let  them  get 
soft  before  salting.  When  tender,  rub  them  through  a  fine 
colander  with  a  potato  masher.  Take  the  empty  saucepan 
and  set  over  the  fire.  Rub  together  in  it  a  tablespoon  each 
of  butter  and  flour.  When  made  perfectly  smooth,  add  the 
strained  soup.  The  meal  of  the  peas  will  be  held  in  suspen- 
sion by  the  addition  of  the  butter  and  flour,  and  the  result 
will  be  a  creamy,  even  soup.  Meat  bones  may  be  used  if 
desired,*  but  should  not  be  put  in  till  after  the  peas  com- 
mence boiling.  If  an  onion  is  used,  fry  it  in  a  saucepan 
before  the  peas  are  put  over. 

GREEN  CORN   SOUP. 

A  soup  bone  either  of  beef  or  veal.  Boil  slowly  in  a  gal- 
lon of  water.  After  salting,  skim  carefully.  Cook  the  meat 
an  hour,  then  add  the  corn  from  12  good-sized  ears, 
scraping  the  cobs.  Season  with  white  pepper  and  2  sprigs 
of  parsley.  Just  as  the  corn  is  tender — the  time  varying,  of 
course,  according  to  the  size  of  the  kernels — stir  in  a  table- 
spoon of  flour  made  smooth  in  a  cup  of  milk ;  and,  unless 
the  soup  bone  is  quite  rich,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Tomatoes  are  sometimes  added  to  this  soup,  and  give  a  very 
nice  flavor. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

A  pint  of  beans  put  into  2  quarts  of  water.  Simmer 
slowly  on  the  back  of  the  stove  several  hours.  A  very  deli- 
cious soup.  No  seasoning  but  salt  and  pepper. 


PLATE  II.— See  GARNISHES  and  DESCRIPTION  OF  COLORED  PLATES. 


II 


OESlGh 


PORTER-HOUSE  STEAK. 


DESIGNED  AND  ENGRAVED  EXPRESSLY  FOR  MRS.  OWENS'  COOK  BOOK  B\  .^AKER  &  Ca 


MOVES  OF  COOKING. 


CHOWDER.  CRIMPED.  POTTED.  PICKLED. 

BROILED.        BAKED.         BOILED.         FRIED. 


rISH  are  not  regarded  any  more  nutritious  than 
flesh  or  fowl.  Indeed,  hardly  as  much  so  as  a 
good  quality  of  beef  or  mutton.  Fish  not  en- 
tirely fresh  are  poor  eating.  They  are  gener- 
ally in  best  condition  shortly  before  spawning, 
and  are  thought  to  be  unfit  for  human  food 
immediately  after  spawning.  For  invalids,  white  fish,  such 
as  cod  and  haddock,  etc.,  are  the  best.  Flounders  and  tur- 
bot  are  also  good.  Flat  fish  will  keep  the  longest.  Salmon, 
mackerel,  trout,  and  herring  decompose  quickly.  The  tur- 
bot  will  improve  by  keeping  a  few  hours  before  cooking. 

Notice  that  the  body  of  the  fish  is  firm  and  the  eyes  full, 
and  the  gills  red. 

Do  not  allow  fish  to  remain  but  a  short  time  in  water.     It 
makes  them  soft  and  flabby. 

To  thj^v  out  frozen  fish,  lay  them  in  cold  water  till  the  ice 
cleaves  from  the  body. 

Large  fish  are  usually  boiled  or  baked.     Small  ones,  fried 
or  broiled. 

A  fish  is  scaled  more  easily  by  plunging  for  an  instant  in 
hot  water. 

Fish  should  be  carefully  cleaned  before  cooking.     Any 
coagulated  blood  should  be  scraped  away  with  a  knife,  and 


30 

Chowder.  FISH.  Potted. 

they  should  be  freed  from  scales.  But  if  washed  beyond 
what  is  necessary,  the  flavor  of  the  fish  is  diminished. 

The  mode  of  cooking  fresh  and  salt-water  fish  is  substan- 
tially the  same,  and  the  recipes  given  furnish  all  necessary 
information. 

The  various  sauces  called  for  in  the  following  recipes  will 
be  found  in  the  chapter  on  "  SAUCES." 

For  fish  croquettes,  see  "  CROQUETTES." 

FISH  CHOWDER. 

Fresh  cod  or  haddock  are  regarded  as  best  for  chowdei, 
although  our  common  lake  fish  may  be  used.  Cut  into  2 
inch  pieces.  Fry  some  slices  of  salt  pork  crisp,  in  an  iron 
pot.  Take  out  and  chop  fine,  leaving  the  fat.  Put  a  layer 
of  fish  in  this  fat,  then  a  layer  of  split  crackers,  then  some 
bits  of  the  pork,  some  thick  slices  of  peeled  potatoes  and 
some  chopped  onion,  and  pepper.  Then  another  layer  of 
fish,  with  a  repetition  of  the  other  articles.  Cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  half  an  hour.  Skim  it  out  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour,  add  a 
little  catsup,  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  chowder.  Remove 
the  bones  if  convenient,  when  dishing  up. 

CRIMPED  SALMON. 

Cut  freshly-caught  salmon  into  slices  ij  inches  thick. 
Wash  in  strong  salt  and  water.  Lay  on  a  fish-plate,  if  yot 
have  one,  and  plunge  into  boiling  salted  water.  It  will  be 
done  in  10  or  15  minutes.  Serve  immediately  with  lobster 
sauce  or  plain  melted  butter. 

POTTED   FISH. 

Miss   Juliet  Corson. 

Remove  the  fins  and  head  of  the  fish,  clean  well,  cut  in 
slices  an  inch  thick,  pack  it  in  a  little  jar  having  a  cover,  in 
layers,  and  between  the  layers  put  I  teaspoon  each  of  whole 


Pickled.  FISH.  Turbot. 

cloves,  and  whole  peppers,  2  blades  of  mace,  a  bay  leaf,  a 
tablespoon  of  salt.  When  all  is  used,  cover  with  vinegar 
and  water,  half  and  half.  Put  over  it  a  buttered  paper,  or 
else  fasten  the  jar  cover  on  with  paste.  Put  in  a  hot  oven 
and  bake  4  or  5  hours.  The  bones  will  have  entirely  disap- 
peared. Eat  cold  or  hot. 

PICKLED  FISH. 

Put  the  fish  in  vinegar  that  is  spiced  as  for  pickles.  Boil 
slowly  until  tender,  but  not  broken.  Set  away  closely  cov- 
ered, and  in  a  few  weeks  the  bones  will  be  destroyed. 

BROILED  FISH. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

To  broil  a  shad  or  any  other  fish,  grease  the  bars  of  the 
broiler  well.  Put  the  inside  to  the  fire  first.  The  backbone 
is  easily  removed  by  running  a  knife  along  under  it,  and  the 
long  bones  can  be  loosened  and  taken  outgone  or  more  at  a 
time,  with  a  little  knife,  after  the  backbone  is  cut  away  from 
them.  Let  brown  without  burning,  till  the  flakes  separate. 
Turn  the  skin  part  to  the  fire  just  long  enough  to  brown. 
Season  either  before  or  after  cooking. 

FRESH    MACKEREL. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  and  dainty  dishes  to  be 
found.  It  is  best  broiled.  Rub  over  it  melted  butter  or 
drippings,  or  olive  oil  if  preferred.  Grease  the  bars  of  the 
gridiron.  Butter  it  and  garnish  with  chopped  parsley. 

FISH    TURBOT. 

Mrs.  Elliott  Durand,  Chicago. 

Five  pounds  white  fish,  i  quart  milk,  i  bunch  of  thyme, 
the  same  of  parsley,  J  onion.  Place  the  fish  in  cold  water, 
and  when  the  water  has  boiled  two  minutes,  the  fish  is  done. 
Remove  and  free  from  bones.  Boil  the  milk,  onion,  thyme, 
and  parsley  over  water,  i  hour.  Strain  through  a  colander. 


32 

Turbans.  FISH.  Stuffing. 

Add  i  cup  of  flour,  made  in  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  water, 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  i  cup  of  butter,  cook  until 
thick.  Place  the  fish  in  a  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers 
of  the  dressing.  Finish  with  dressing  on  the  top  and  a 
thick  layer  of  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  i  hour.  Serve  in  the 
baking-dish  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon. 

TURBANS  OF  FISH. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Flounders  are  best.  Cut  down  the  middle  of  the  fish  till 
the  bone  is  reached,  then  cut  the  fillet  or  strip  out  from  the 
side,  avoiding  the  bone.  Lay  the  fillet  on  the  board,  remove 
from  the  skin  by  turning  the  blade  of  the  knife  between  the 
flesh  and  skin,  and  keeping  it  perfectly  parallel  with  the 
board,  and  thus  cutting  and  separating  the  skin  and  flesh. 
After  cutting  the  entire  fish  into  fillets,  roll  each  one  up  and 
fasten  with  a  broom  straw.  These  little  rolls  are  called  Tur- 
bans. They  are  nice  stuffed  with  highly-seasoned  soaked 
bread.  If  they  are  not  stuffed,  spread  some  butter  on  the 
bottom  of  the  pan,  but  no  water.  Cook  in  the  oven  only 
long  enough  for  the  flakes  to  separate.  They  are  to  be  lifted 
out  and  placed  on  Tartar  sauce. 

STUFFING  FOR  FISH. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin,  Chicago. 

One-half  cup  of  fat  pork  chopped  fine.  One  large  spoon 
butter.  Parsley,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  salt  and  pepper,  a 
few  oysters,  2  beaten  eggs.  All  mixed  with  bread  crumbs. 
A  much  simpler  dressing  is  good,  when  the  above  ingre- 
dients are  not  at  hand.  Bread  crumbs  are  usually  on  hand, 
and  with  a  little  seasoning  and  mincing,  serve  very  well. 

BAKED  FISH. 

Clean  well ;  sprinkle  with  salt  an  hour  before  cooking. 
Tie  it  with  a  string,  sprinkle  flour  over  it,  baste  with  butter, 


33 

Baked  FISH.  Boiled. 

place  on  a  wire  gridiron  across  a  dripping-pan.     Allow  i£ 
hours  for  a  good-sized  fish. 

BAKED  FISH  WITH  TOMATOES. 

When  fish  is  put  in  the  pan  for  baking,  it  is  a  very  nice  vari- 
ation to  pour  a  can  of  tomatoes  over  it.  Season  and  bake. 

BAKED  FISH  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Take  any  kind  of  baked  fish,  remove  the  bones  and  skin, 
put  in  a  baking-dish,  cover  with  the  sauce,  and  dust  with 
cracker  dust.  Bake  a  delicate  brown. 

HALIBUT— CREOLE  STYLE. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Get  a  thick,  square  piece  of  halibut,  or  other  fish  if  pre- 
ferred. Wash  it  and  lay  it  on  a  baking-dish.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Chop  a  clove  of  white  garlic  about  the 
size  of  a  bean,  and  strew  over  the  fish,  then  put  on  a  cup  of 
canned  or  fresh  tomatoes.  Bake  until  the  flakes  separate. 
Dish  up  without  breaking.  The  combination  of  garlic  and 
tomatoes  gives  the  name  Creole  to  a  dish. 

BOILED  FISH. 

Wrap  a  large  fish  in  a  cloth.  Secure  it  with  a  string. 
Put  it  on  in  cold  water,  salt  well,  and  it  will  generally  cook 
in  half  an  hour.  Remove  the  cloth  and  serve  with  drawn 
butter. 

BOILED  PIKE  WITH  EGG  SAUCE. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Any  fish  will  do.  After  it  is  dressed,  tie  it  in  the  form  of 
a  circle  by  putting  its  ta'il  into  its  mouth,  and  take  a  stitch 
with  a  trussing  needle  in  its  head  and  tail  to  hold  it  in  place. 
To  2  quarts  of  water  put  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoon 
of  whole  cloves,  same  of  whole  peppers,  a  bay  leaf.  Half  a 


34 

Stew.  FISH.  Codfish. 

lemon  sliced  is  a  nice  addition,  and  a  tablespoon  of  salt. 
Put  over  in  cold  water  and  boil  till  the  fins  pull  off  easily. 
The  skin  may  be  easily  removed  if  desired.  Serve  with  egg 
sauce.  Pour  the  sauce  inside  the  circle^of  fish.  Lay  a  sprig 
of  parsley  on  top  of  one  side  of  the  fish,  and  a  few  slices  of 
lemon  at  the  side  on  the  platter. 

BOILED  FISH  WITH  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

A  thin,  long  fish  like  a  pike  is  best  for  boiling.  Do  not 
have  it  split  open,  but  draw  it  at  the  gills.  A  large  fish 
should  be  put  over  in  cold  water,  but  a  small  one  in  boiling 
water,  for  the  reason  that  a  fish  cooks  so  quickly  that  almost 
as  soon  as  it  touches  the  boiling  water  it  is  done ;  and  if  a 
large  one  were  put  on  in  boiling  water  the  outside  would  be 
done  and  the  inside  raw.  If  you  have  no  fish-kettle,  wrap 
in  a  cloth.  Sew  the  fish  very  securely  in  the  shape  of  a  let- 
ter S,  by  drawing  a  cord  through  it  and  fastening  tightly, 
When  cooked,  and  strings  loosened,  it  will  retain  its  shape, 
and  is  exceedingly  pretty  to  look  at.  Pour  the  sauce  around 
it  on  a  platter,  and  put  a  sprig  of  parsley  at  the  side. 

CODFISH   STEW. 

Cut  up  into  inch  pieces,  allowing  J  a  teacup  full  to  a  pint 
of  milk.  Put  on  the  stove  in  a  stewpan  or  spider,  well  cov- 
ered with  cold  water.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  drain  and 
pour  in  a  pint  or  quart  of  milk,  according  to  size  of  family. 
When  hot,  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  made  smooth 
with  cold  milk  or  water.  An  egg  broken  in  and  stirred  rap- 
idly at  the  last  is  an  improvement.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
of  butter.  Serve  with  baked  potatoes. 

CODFISH  BAI^LS. 

Take  a  pint  of  finely-shredded  salt  codfish,  a  quart  of  raw 
peeled  potatoes  cut  in  two.  Put  to  cook  in  cold  water. 
When  the  potatoes  are  tender,  drain  very  thoroughly,  mash 
fine,  beat  well,  add  2  tablespoons  butter  (or  less  will  answer), 


35 

Fried.  FISH  Eels. 

2  well  beaten  eggs,  and  a  bit  of  pepper.  Beat  again,  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  Drop  by  the  spoonful  into  boiling  fat,  and 
fry  brown.  They  are  better  than  if  made  into  cakes. 

SALT  MACKEREL. 

They  may  be  cooked  in  several  different  ways.  The  one 
most  in  vogue  is  boiling.  To  freshen,  put  in  a  crock  of 
water,  skin  side  up,  early  in  the  evening.  Before  bedtime 
change  the  water,  and  in  the  morning  rinse  in  clear  water. 
Boil  about  5  minutes  in  a  frying-pan.  Take  up  carefully  on 
a  platter.  Have  ready  in  a  basin  a  cup  of  cream  or  rich 
milk  with  a  spoon  of  butter,  heated,  and  pour  over. 

NOTE. — Tin  rusts  badly,  and  it  is  better  to  soak  mackerel 
in  a  stone  crock. 

Salt  Mackerel. 

After  freshening,  put  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  in  the  spider 
with  half  as  much  water.  Boil  the  mackerel  in  it.  Serve 
with  slices  of  lemon. 

Salt  Mackerel. 

Mrs.   L.  S.  Hodge,  Chicago. 

After  freshening,  hang  up  for  a  day  or  two,  or  until  per- 
fectly dry.  Then  put  in  a  dry  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  for 
ten  minutes.  It  will  be  found  cooked  through.  Serve  with 
drawn  butter. 

EELS. 

Eels  should  be  killed  instantly  by  piercing  the  spinal 
marrow  close  to  the  back  part  of  the  skull  with  a  sharp- 
pointed  instrument.  Skin  them.  Take  off  head  and  tail, 
cut  up  into  frying  pieces,  throw  into  boiling  water  for  5  min- 
utes, then  drain,  roll  in  flour  or  corn  meal  peppered  and 
salted,  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard. 

FRIED   FISH. 

Clean  the  fish  well.  Cut  up  into  pieces  about  2  by  4 
inches.  Lay  around  in  a  colander  skin  down,  and  sprinkle 


36 

Smelts.  FISH.  Shad  Roe. 

with  salt.  Let  stand  an  hour,  or  half  a  day  if  need  be. 
Have  the  fat  hot  in  a  frying  pan.  Roll  in  flour  or  corn  meal, 
fry  slowly  and  cook  a  long  time,  till  thoroughly  done  through. 
It  is  nice  dipped  in  beaten  egg  and  rolled  cracker  after  the 
flour,  but  is  not  essential. 

TO  FRY  SMELTS. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Dry  on  a  towel.  Dip  in  milk,  then  in  cracker  dust,  then 
in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  dust  again,  and  the  dust  will 
all  stay  on.  Fry  in  hot  fat. 

FRIED  PERCH. 

After  scaling  and  cleaning  perfectly,  dry  them  well.  Dip 
in  flour  that  is  salted  and  peppered,  and  fry  in  hot  lard, 
Garnish  with  curled  parsley.  To  fry  brook  trout,  dip  in 
corn  meal  and  fry  in  butter,  and  serve  with  melted  butter. 

SHAD  ROE  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Fish  spawn,  especially  the  shad,  is  a  delicacy  greatly  prized 
by  epicures.  Wash  and  wipe,  fry  in  hot  fat  in  a  frying-pan, 
on  both  sides.  Season.  It  takes  15  or  20  minutes  to  cook. 
Dish  up  on  a  platter  and  place  around  it  a  row  or  double 
row  of  plain  fried  oysters.  Put  a  bunch  of  parsley  in  the 
center,  and  half  a  lemon  with  the  peel  cut  in  saw  teeth,  and 
the  effect  is  very  pretty. 


OYSTERS.  CLAMS.  LOBSTERS. 

CRABS  AND  SHRIMPS. 


OYSTERS. 


RAW. 

STEWED.          FRIED. 
STEAMED. 

BROILED. 
PICKLED. 

BAKED. 

COMES  too  seldom  in  the  yearly  calendar 
for  the  lover  of  the  oyster.  But  there 
is  hope ;  for,  with  the  adoption  of  stand- 
ard time,  and  the  continued  efforts  of 
"Fonetic  Riters,"  there  may  come  fur- 
ther changes,  and  the  R  may  yet  be 
found  in  other  months. 

A  very  pretty  center  piece  for  a  table  at  an  entertain- 
ment or  gathering  of  any  kind,  is  a  large  block  of  ice  on  a 
handsome  platter,  with  a  center  melted  out  and  filled  with 
raw  oysters.  Garnish  the  edge  with  slices  of  lemon,  and 
green  sprigs  may  decorate  the  sides  if  desired. 

In  cases  where  butter  is  given  to  be  used  with  oysters, 
many  prefer  olive  oil.  Use  but  half  the  quantity  that  you 
would  of  butter. 

Peanut  oil  or  cotton  seed  oil  may  be  procured  much  more 
cheaply  than  olive  oil,  and  answers  every  purpose. 

Use  the  very  largest  oysters  for  frying  and  broiling,  the 


38 

Raw.  OYSTERS.  Stew. 

medium  for  raw  and    soup,   and  the   smallest  for  scallops, 
croquettes,  and  pies. 

Every  oyster  should  be  looked  at  that  no 'bits  of  shell 
remain  attached  to  it.  This  is  a  very  important  matter, 
and  should  not  be  neglected. 

For  oyster  soup,  see  "SOUP;"  for  oyster  salad,  see 
"SALADS;"  for  oyster  croquettes,  see  "CROQUETTES;"  for 
oyster  fritters,  see  "  FRITTERS." 

RAW  OYSTERS. 

If  to  be  served  at  the  table,  they  should  be  brought  on  in 
a  deep  dish  accompanied  by  a  dish  of  lemons  cut  in  quar- 
ters. Serve  in  small  plates,  half  a  dozen  oysters  to  each 
person,  with  a  piece  of  lemon  in  the  center.  Salt,  pepper, 
and  vinegar  should  be  provided.  Lemon  juice  is  sometimes 
served  in  place  of  vinegar. 

OYSTER  StEW. 

Three  pints  of  oysters.  Put  the  liquor  in  a  stewpan,  let 
it  boil  up,  skim  carefully,  put  in  2j  quarts  of  milk,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  add  the  oysters,  having  looked  them  over 
and  removed  every  bit  of  shell.  The  moment  they  curl  up 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  salt  to  taste.  Season  well  with 
butter.  Serve  in  hot  soup  scallops. 

VIRGINIA  OYSTER  STEW. 

Take  a  quart  of  oysters,  strain  the  liquor  off,  and  put  it 
over  to  boil.  Take  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  and  -J 
teaspoon  mustard,  make  into  smooth  paste  with  I  tablespoon 
or  more  of  salad  oil.  Add  I  cup  of  the  boiling  liquor,  stir 
well  and  keep  warm.  To  the  remaining  liquor  add  the  oys- 
ters and  cook  till  the  edges  curl.  Pour  part  of  the  liquor  in 
the  oysters  over  toast,  let  the  remainder  be  with  the  oysters, 
and  add  to  it  the  egg  salad,  and  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  or 


39 

With  Turkey.  OYSTERS.  Fricassee. 

sauces  to  suit  the  taste.     Serve  the  toast  with  the  oysters. 
Much  nicer  than  crackers. 

STEWED  OYSTERS  WITH  CELERY. 

In  a  large  stewpan  put  a  pint  of  strong  and  clear  broth, 
made  of  the  cuts  of  beef.  Instead  of  milk  U...J  water,  or 
milk  even,  as  the  prevailing  practice  is,  use  only  the  richest 
and  sweetest  of  cream.  Of  this  cream  add  I  pint  to  the 
broth  in  the  stewpan.  Also  4  tablespoons  of  the  best 
table  butter,  I  teaspoon  of  salt,  I  of  white  pepper,  the  same 
of  ground  mace,  and  extract  of  celery.  If  the  celery  is  to 
be  had  in  stalk,  chop  up  fine  and  throw  in.  No  more 
delicate  or  healthy  flavor  can  be  added  to  any  stew, 
soup  or  broth,  than  this  exquisite  vegetable.  Now  set 
to  cooking,  and  while  on  the  fire  dredge  in  finely-pow- 
dered cracker  dust  and  a  little  of  the  best  corn  starch  flour, 
until  thickened  to  your  taste.  Have  ready,  parboiled,  not 
in  water,  but  in  their  own  juice,  50  oysters,  in  a  hot  tureen. 
Pour  over  these  parboiled  oysters  the  sauce  compounded  as 
above,  and  serve  while  still  scalding  hot. 

OYSTER  SAUCE   WITH   TURKEY. 

A  pint  of  oysters  cut  up  small  and  boiled  up  in  their  own 
liquor,  add  a  cup  of  cream,  tablespoon  of  flour  made  smooth 
with  part  of  the  cream  ;  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

OYSTER  FRICASSEE. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

A  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  mixed  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire  till  a  smooth  paste  is  formed,  then  add  the 
oyster  liquor  strained.  A  little  water  may  be  added  if 
necessary.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  very  little  nut- 
meg, boil  up,  add  the  oysters  and  cook  till  the  edges  curl. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  3  raw  eggs, 
3  tablespoons  salad  oil,  I  tablespoon  vinegar  or  lemon  juice, 
I  tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  Serve 


40 

On  Toast  OYSTERS  Omelet 

OYSTERS  ON  TOAST. 

Put  a  quart  of  oysters  in  their  liquor  (free  the  oysters  care- 
fully from  pieces  of  shell)  on  to  cook.  "When  they  come  to  a 
boil  add  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
mixed  smoothly  with  2  teaspoons  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt 
to  suit  the  taste.  Let  boil  up  and  pour  over  6  slices  of 
nicely  browned  and  buttered  toast.  This  will  serve  half  a 
dozen  persons,  and  is  a  nice  breakfast,  lunch  or  supper  dish. 

DEVILED  OYSTERS. 

Drain  the  oysters  on  a  cloth,  and  dip  in  a  mixture  of  3 
tablespoons  of  oil  or  melted  butter,  I  of  vinegar,  a  tea- 
spoon of  pepper  sauce,  or  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Let 
them  stay  in  this  for  5  minutes,  well  immersed,  then  dip  in 
rolled  cracker  and  beaten  egg,  and  cracker  again,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  or  part  lard  and  part  butter. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Only  the  large  selects  are  fit  for  frying.  Dry  them  on  a 
folded  towel.  Allow  6  eggs  to  a  quart  of  oysters.  Roll 
cracker  very  fine  and  put  salt  and  pepper  in  it.  Beat  eggs 
very  light,  dip  an  oyster  in  the  cracker,  then  in  the  egg, 
then  in  the  cracker  again,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  hot  butter 
and  lard  mixed  ;  or,  better  still,  in  olive  oil. 

OYSTER  OMELET. 

One  dozen  large,  fresh  oysters  chopped  into  small  pieces, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  sprinkled  on  them,  and  then  let  them 
stand  in  their  own  liquor  half  an  hour.  Beat  6  eggs,  the 
yolks  and  the  whites  apart,  the  former  to  a  firm,  smooth 
paste,  the  latter  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  to  the  yolks  a  table- 
spoon of  rich,  sweet  cream,  pepper  and  salt  in  sufficient 
quantity,  and  then  lightly  stir  the  whites  in.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  into  a  hot  frying-pan.  When  it  is  thoroughly 
melted  and  begins  to  fry,  pour  in  your  egg  mixture,  and 


41 

Broiled.  OYSTERS.  Half-Shell. 

add  as  quickly  as  possible  the  oysters.  Do  not  stir,  but  with 
a  broad-bladed  omelet  knife  lift,  as  the  eggs  set,  the  omelet 
from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  to  prevent  scorching.  In  5 
minutes  it  will  be  done.  Place  a  hot  dish,  bottom  upward, 
over  the  omelet,  and  dexterously  turn  the  pan  over  with  the 
brown  side  uppermost  upon  the  dish.  Eat  without  delay. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Select  large  firm  oysters.  Dry  on  a  towel,  pepper  and 
salt  them,  and  place  on  a  wire  broiler,  over  a  brisk  fire.  Turn 
often  to  keep  the  juices  in.  Remove  to  a  hot  dish  and  put 
bits  of  butter  on  each  and  serve  immediately. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

A  layer  of  rolled  cracker  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  then 
a  layer  of  oysters  with  seasoning  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Repeat  till  the  dish  is  full,  with  crumbs  on  top.  Pour  on  the 
liquor  mixed  with  a  little  milk.  A  beaten  egg  with  milk  is 
nice  to  put  over  the  top.  Cover  and  bake  about  half  an 
hour.  Remove  cover  and  brown  before  sending  to  table. 

MOBILE  ROAST  OYSTERS. 

Use  deep  oyster  shells,  place  them  in  a  tin  in  the  oven, 
and  heat  so  hot  that  they  begin  to  scale  off.  Put  a  half  tea- 
spoon of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper  in  each  shell, 
drop  an  oyster  in  each,  turn  it  over  and  serve  in  the  shell. 
If  not  quite  done,  set  in  the  oven  for  a  minute. 

CREAM  OYSTERS  ON  THE  HALF  SHELL. 

Pour  into  your  saucepan  a  cup  of  hot  water,  another  of 
milk,  and  one  of  thick  cream  with  a  little  salt.  Set  the 
saucepan  into  the  kettle  of  hot  water  until  it  just  boils,  when 
stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  2  heaping  tablespoons 
of  rice  flour,  corn  starch,  or  arrow  root,  wet  up  with  a  little 
cold  milk.  Have  your  oyster  shells  washed  and  buttered 
*6 


42 

Stuffed.  OYSTERS.  Pie. 

(clam  shells  are  more  roomy)  and  a  fine,  large  oyster  laid 
in  each  one.  Arrange  them  closely  in  a  large  baking-pan, 
propping  them  up  with  pebbles  or  bits  of  shell,  and  fill  up 
each  shell  with  the  prepared  cream,  having  stirred  and 
beaten  it  well  first.  Bake  5  or  6  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  until 
brown,  and  serve  in  the  shell. 

STUFFED  OYSTERS. 

Chop  fine  a  dozen  oysters,  mix  with  them  the  beaten  yolk 
of  i  egg,  and  thicken  with  bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoon  of 
thick  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fill  the  shells,  round- 
ing them  nicely  on  the  top.  Brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

For  3  pints  of  oysters  take  for  the  pie  crust  4  cups  of  flour 
and  a  heaping  cup  of  butter  or  little  less  of  lard  ;  water  to 
mix.  Line  a  pudding-dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  oysters 
drained  from  the  liquor.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  flour,  a  dash 
of  pepper  and  salt,  and  bits  of  butter.  Then  another  layer 
the  same,  until  all  are  used,  putting  more  butter  on  the  top 
layer.  Pour  the  liquor  in  and  cover  with  the  crust.  Cut  a 
hole  in  the  center  and  bake  until  the  crust  is  browned  deli- 
cately. If  there  is  but  little  liquor  to  the  oyster,  milk  is  a 
very  palatable  substitute,  and  is  preferred  by  some. 

OYSTER   PIE   WITH  HARD-BOILED  EGGS. 

Take  a  quart  of  oysters,  look  over  very  carefully  to 
remove  bits  of  shells.  Put  into  a  pudding-dish  with  the 
liquor,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  bits  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of 
hot  water,  slice  up  4  hard-boiled  eggs,  put  around  on  the 
oysters,  make  a  crust  of  ij  cups  flour,  I  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  half  a  cup  of  butter  (or  a  trifle  less  of  lard,  in  which 
case  use  a  saltspoon  of  salt,)  water  to  mix  as  for  pie  crust. 
Roll  out  to  cover  the  dish.  Before  covering,  place  an 
inverted  teacup  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  crowding  the 


43 

Panned.  OYSTERS.  With  Macaroni. 

oysters  aside  for  the  purpose.     Cover,  cut  a  slit  in  the  mid- 
dle and  bake  till  the  crust  is  done,  perhaps  15  or  20  minutes. 

PANNED    OYSTERS. 

Toast  slices  of  bread.  Remove  the  crusts.  Cut  into  even 
shapes,  spread  with  butter,  lay  in  a  pan,  and  put  one  or 
more  nice  plump  oysters  on  each  piece.  Put  bits  of  butter 
and  a  very  little  pepper  on  each  one,  cover  with  a  tin  dish 
and  put  into  a  hot  oven.  As  soon  as  the  edges  of  the  oys- 
ters curl  they  are  done.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt.  Then 
cook  6  or  8  minutes.  They  are  best  cooked  in  patty- 
pans as  they  can  be  served  in  them.  In  that  case  the  patty- 
pans should  be  placed  in  a  dripping-pan  in  the  oven. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  patty-pans  with  rich  paste. 
Put  a  cover  of  paste  over  and  pinch  the  edges  together. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  15  minutes,  or  until  done.  Take 
as  many  oysters  as  you  have  patties.  Stew  them  in  their 
own  liquor,  then  cut  them  in  pieces,  add  a  teaspoon  of  flour, 
a  tablespoon  of  butter  (to  a  dozen)  and  a  grating  from  a 
lemon  peel,  if  you  have  it.  Season  lightly  with  salt,  a  pinch 
of  pounded  mace,  and  cayenne,  and  2  or  3  tablespoons  of 
cream.  Mix  well,  open  the  patties  and  put  in  a  tablespoon 
of  the  oyster  mixture.  Serve  hot. 

OYSTERS  AND  MACARONI. 

|  pound  macaroni. 
£  can,  or  a  pint  of  oysters. 
\  cup  butter, 
ij  cups  sweet  milk. 

2   eggs,   or  it  is  very  good  without  any 
I    cup  cracker  dust — very  fine. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Break  the  macaroni  into  inch  pieces.  Put  it  into  boiling 
water  and  boil  20  minutes.  Skim  it  out,  and  put  a  thick 


44 

Steamed.  OYSTERS.  Pickled. 

layer  of  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish.  Put 
the  oysters  and  liquor  on  this,  with  bits  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  add  the  remainder  of  the  macaroni ;  beat  the  eggs 
well,  mix  with  the  milk,  pour  over,  and  spread  the  cracker 
crumbs  over  the  top.  Bake  30  minutes — or  less,  if  the  oven 
is  very  hot.  See  that  it  is  brown  on  top. 

STEAMED  OYSTERS. 

Take  select  oysters,  put  in  a  round  vegetable  dish,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  set  in  a  steamer  over  boiling 
water,  and  steam  till  they  begin  to  curl.  Very  fine. 

STEAMED  OYSTERS  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Wash  well  and  lay  in  a  steamer.  When  they  are  cooked 
enough,  the  shell  will  open.  They  may  be  turned  into  hot 
dishes  or  served  in  the  shells.  To  be  seasoned  by  the  con- 
sumer. 

SPICED   OYSTERS. 

100    oysters  with  their  liquor. 
I     cup  vinegar. 
1 8    whole  cloves. 

\  nutmeg  grated. 
4    blades  mace. 
i    teaspoon  whole  allspice. 
£  teaspoon  salt. 
A  pinch  of  cayenne. 

Put  all  of  the  ingredients  into  a  saucepan,  stir  well,  cover, 
and  put  over  a  slow  fire.  Stir  from  the  bottom  until  they  are 
well  scalded.  Remove,  put  into  jars,  cover,  and  serve  cold. 

PICKLED    OYSTERS. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  50  oysters  and  add  to  it  ^  teaspoon 
whole  pepper,  same  of  allspice,  2  blades  of  mace,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  When  the  liquor  boils  drop  in  the  oysters  and  boil 


45 

Chowder.  CLAMS.  Stew. 

them  one  minute.  Then  take  them  out  quickly  and  cool 
them.  Add  half  as  much  vinegar  as  liquor,  boil  a  few  min- 
utes and  pour  over  the  oysters. 


CLAMS. 

CHOWDER.  STEWED.  PIE.  FRIED. 

For  clam  soup,  see  "  SOUP  "  ;  for  clam  fritters,  see  "  FRIT- 
TERS." 

CLAM   CHOWDER. 

Butter  a  deep  tin  basin,  put  in  a  layer  of  grated  bread 
crumbs  or  cracker  crumbs.  Sprinkle  in  pepper  and  bits  of 
butter,  then  put  in  a  double  layer  of  clams,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  butter,  another  layer  of  crumbs,  then  of  clams, 
and  finish  with  bread  crumbs  or  a  layer  of  soaked  cracker. 
Add  a  cup  of  milk  or  water,  turn  a  plate  over  the  basin,  and 
bake  |  of  an  hour.  To  50  clams,  \  pound  of  soda  biscuit 
and  \  pound  of  butter  is  the  right  proportion.  • 

STEWED  CLAMS. 

C.  H.  Bass,  New  York. 

Take  50  large  sand  clams  from  their  shells,  and  put  to 
them  equal  parts  of  their  own  liquor  and  water,  nearly  to 
cover  them  ;  put  them  in  a  stewpan  over  a  gentle  fire  for  £ 
an  hour  ;  take  off  any  scum  as  it  rises,  then  add  to  them  a 
teacup  of  butter  in  which  is  worked  a  tablespoon  of  wheat 
flour,  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  cover  the  stewpan  and  let  them 
simmer  for  15  minutes  longer,  then  serve.  Pour  it  over 
toast  if  desired.  Substituting  milk  for  water  makes  them 
more  delicate  and  white.  Any  other  than  sand  clams 
require  an  hour  to  stew ;  that  is,  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
before  putting  in  the  seasoning. 


46 

To  Choose.  LOBSTERS.  To  Boil. 

CLAM    PIE. 

Three  pints  of  clams — cut  them  in  two  if  very  large,  boil 
up  in  their  own  liquor  in  a  saucepan,  adding  a  little  water,  if 
necessary.  Take  3  large  boiled  potatoes  and,  when  cold,  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Put  good  pie  crust  around  the  side  of  the 
baking-dish,  and  then  alternate  layers  of  clams  and  pota- 
toes with  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  a  light 
sprinkling  of  flour.  Place  an  inverted  teacup  in  the  middle 
of  the  dish,  pushing  the  mixture  aside  for  the  purpose. 
Pour  the  liquor  over  and  also  a  cup  of  water,  if  it  seems  dry. 
Cover  with  crust,  make  some  incisions  for  the  escape  of 
steam,  and  bake  \  or  |  of  an  hour. 

FRIED  CLAMS. 

Use  the  largest  sand  clams,  drain  well  from  their  liquor, 
dip  in  finely  rolled  cracker  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  very 
hot. 


TO  CHOOSE.  BOILED.  SCALLOPED. 

TO  CHOOSE  LOBSTERS. 

The  heaviest  lobsters  are  the  best.  Sometimes  a  com- 
paratively small  one  will  weigh  as  heavily  as  one  consider- 
ably larger.  If  fresh,  the  claws  should  move  with  strength 
and  it  should  be  lively.  Hen  lobsters  are  prettiest  for  salads 
on  account  of  their  coral.  The  tail  is  broader  than  that  of 
the  male.  The  male  is  preferable  for  boiling.  The  shell  is 
brighter  and  the  flesh  firmer  than  that  of  the  female. 

TO  BOIL  LOBSTERS. 
Allow  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water.     When 


47 

To  Choose.  CRABS.  Stuffed. 

it  boils  fast  put  the  lobster  in  head  first.  It  dies  instantly. 
Boil  briskly  half  an  hour,  then  remove  and  drain.  Wipe  it 
dry  and  rub  over  with  sweet  oil  or  butter.  Break  the  claws 
ofT  and  remove  the  meat  from  the  shells  and  lay  on  a  small 
platter.  Serve  with  melted  butter  sauce. 

SCALLOPED  LOBSTER. 

Butter  a  pudding-dish.  Put  in  it  a  layer  of  lobster  meat, 
picked  in  small  pieces.  Do  not  cut  it.  Sprinkle  it  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  juice  of  lemon.  On  this  strew 
a  layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs  with  lumps  of  butter,  then  a 
layer  of  lobster  as  before,  having  bread  crumbs  for  the  top 
layer.  For  a  quart  of  the  mixture,  use  about  ^  cup  of  but- 
ter. Pour  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk  over  it  and  bake  half  an 
hour,  and  serve  hot. 


SHRIMPS. 


TO  CHOOSE.  STUFFED.  BOILED.  FRIED. 

SHRIMPS  BUTTERED.         POTTED. 

TO  CHOOSE  CRABS. 

The  heaviest  are  best.  The  joints  of  the  claws  should  be 
stiff,  and  the  inner  part  should  smell  agreeably. 

STUFFED  CRAB. 

After  boiling,  pick  the  meat  into  bits,  keeping  the  shell 
whole.  Rub  the  shell  with  oil  or  butter.  To  the  meat  put 
one-third  the  quantity  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  a  bit  of 
cayenne  pepper,  nutmeg,  a  chopped  hard-boiled  egg  for  each 
crab,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  butter  or  cream  to  bind 
together.  After  cleaning  the  shells,  fill  with  the  mixture, 
dust  over  with  crumbs  and  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


48 

Buttered.  SHRIMPS.  Potted 

TO  BOIL  CRABS. 

Allow  a  teaspoon  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water.  When  boil- 
ing hot,  put  in  the  crabs  and  boil  from  10  to  12  minutes. 
Remove,  wipe  clean,  rub  over  with  butter  or  sweet  oil.  Break 
off  the  small  claws,  lay  in  rows  around  the  outer  edge  of  a 
dish,  finishing  toward  the  center. 

FRIED  CRABS. 

Soft-shell  crabs  should  be  dipped  in  beaten  egg,  and  then 
rolled  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fried  in  salt  pork  gravy. 

BUTTERED  SHRIMPS. 

Take  i  pint  of  shrimps,  picked  clean  from  their  shells. 
Simmer  for  2  minutes  in  i£  cups  of  cream  sauce.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

POTTED  SHRIMPS. 

Put  a  pint  01  picked  shrimps  into  a  stewpan  with  £  cup 
butter,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  blade  of  mace  pounded,  and 
salt  to  taste.  Simmer  1 5  minutes,  put  into  pots,  let  get  cold 
and  cover  with  melted  butter. 


REMARKS.      FOUR-FOOTED.        WINGED. 
FROGS  AND  TERRAPIN. 

REMARKS. 


AME  is  no  exception.  There  can  be  no 
absolute  rule  for  cooking.  And  I  have 
selected,  from  many  sources,  what  I  con- 
sider will  be  best  received  by  the  generality 
of  ladies.  The  best  variety  possible  is 
presented  in  this  chapter,  and  I  feel  con- 
fident that  my  readers  will  regard  as  plain  common 
sense  the  directions  here  given. 

My  correspondence,  to  gain  all  the  information  possible 
on  this  subject,  has  elicited  various  opinions  from  many 
excellent  cooks. 

For  instance,  one  lady  says  :    "  I  find  it  safe,  generally,  to 
parboil  wild  meat,  with  a  small  pinch  of  soda  in  the  water." 
Another  one  writes  :  "  Of  one  thing  I  am  certain,  and  that 
is,  that  game  should  never  be  parboiled." 

Another  lady  says  :  "  I  think  wild  meat  should  be  soaked 
a  short  time  in  weak  saleratus  water." 

And  still  another  one  says  :  "  If  wild  ducks  and  prairie 
chickens  are  skinned,  the  necessity  for  parboiling  is  removed, 
for  the  skin  is  the  tough  part." 

Very  many  good  cooks  unite  in  this,  that,  whenever  prac- 
*7 


Remarks.  GAME.  Remarks. 

ticable,  game  should  be  cooked  without  washing.  Wiping 
with  a  damp  cloth  is  deemed  sufficient.  If  found  necessary 
to  wash,  they  do  it  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  wipe  dry. 
Game  should  never  remain  in  water  a  moment  longer  than 
is  essential  to  perfect  cleansing,  according  to  their  theory. 

A  free  current  of  air  is  very  advantageous.  A  damp 
atmosphere  is  destructive  to  animal  food. 

If  hares  and  rabbits  are  young,  the  ears  tear  easily  and 
the  claws  are  sharp  and  smooth.  They  will  keep  good  a 
week  or  two  in  cold  weather. 

Ducks  with  plump  breasts  and  pliable  feet  are  best. 

Partridges  with  dark-colored  bills  and  yellow  legs  are 
best,  and  if  allowed  to  hang  a  few  days  are  much  finer  in 
flavor,  and  more  tender. 

Pigeons,  to  be  good,  will  not  bear  being  kept,  as  the  flavor 
leaves  them.  So  they  must  be  eaten  fresh. 

Plovers  are  scarcely  fit  for  any  cooking  but  roasting. 
They  should  feel  hard  at  the  vent,  as  that  indicates  their 
fatness.  If  very  stale,  the  feet  will  be  extremely  dry,  and 
they  should  be  discarded. 

A  peeled  lemon  laid  inside  of  a  wild  fowl  will  absorb  any 
strong  or  fishy  taste  if  left  in  for  a  few  hours. 

After  poultry  or  birds  are  dressed,  hang  them  up  by  the 
head,  not  in  the  sun,  but  in  a  cool  place.  A  piece  of  char- 
coal put  into  each  bird  will  guard  against  tainting  for  several 
days.  This  is  especially  the  case  in  warm  weather,  and 
almost  a  necessity.  Even  if  they  become  tainted,  it  is  said 
that  they  can  be  restored  to  sweetness  by  being  kept  in 
sweet  milk  24  hours.  I  have  never  had  occasion  to  test  this. 
The  flavor  of  game  is  heightened  by  keeping  it  several  days 
before  cooking. 

In  venison  the  fat  should  be  bright,  clear,  and  thick  ;  the 
cleft  of  the  hoof  close  and  smooth.  The  more  fat  there  is, 
the  better  the  quality  of  the  meat. 


Remarks.  GAME.  Beaver. 

When  venison  is  hung  up  it  should  be  looked  at  and  wiped 
off  whenever  it  has  gathered  moisture.  A  thorough  dusting 
with  black  pepper  will  preserve  it  from  flies.  Ginger  will 
answer  the  same  purpose. 

Bear  and  buffalo  meats  are  cooked  substantially  the  same 
as  beef  or  venison. 

Dark  meat  is  usually  served  rare  ;  light  meat,  well  cooked. 

It  is  the  common  custom  of  cooks  to  give  claret  as  one  of 
the  adjuncts  in  cooking  wild  meat.  It  is  a  mere  matter  of 
taste.  It  can  be  made  very  palatable  without  it,  and  I  pre- 
fer not  to  give  it. 

For  game  soup  and  green  turtle  soup,  see  "  SOUP." 

To  the  Hon.  MONROE  HEATH,  ex-Mayor  of  Chicago,  I 
am  deeply  indebted.  He  knows  from  personal  experience 
how  to  kill,  dress,  cook,  and  serve,  in  the  daintiest  manner, 
nearly  everything  treated  of  in  this  entire  chapter,  and  has 
very  kindly  revised  it  for  me. 


GAME. 


BEAVER.          OPOSSUM.          HARE.          RABBIT.          PEMMICAN. 
SQUIRREL.         VENISON.         WOODCHUCKS  AND  'COONS. 

BEAVER—  ROAST. 

Mrs.  A.  P.  Cooper. 

First  catch  your  beaver.  Then  dress  same  as  any  other 
animal.  Cut  your  roast  from  any  part  of  the  animal  you 
wish.  Make  a  strong  brine  and  pour  over  the  meat  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Then  take  enough  cold  water  to  cover, 
and  lay  it  in  a  kettle  with  a  few  whole  peppers,  6  cloves,  a 
piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  6  allspice,  a  .teaspoon  of  whit/e 
mustard  seed,  if  handy,  all  tied  up  together  in  a  piece  of 


52 

Opossum.  GAME.  Hare, 

cheese  cloth.  Parboil  half  an  hour.  Take  up  and  put  in  a 
dripping-pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  and  start  it  to  roasting 
in. the  oven.  Then  mix  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  teaspoon 
of  black  pepper,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  with  a  tablespoon  of 
flour  and  mix  with  water  from  the  dripping-pan,  and  use  to 
baste  with.  Either  stick  2  or  3  garlics  here  and  there  in  the 
roast,  or  choo  an  onion  fine  and  mix  with  the  dressing. 

OPOSSUM. 

Clean  like  a  pig — scrape,  not  skin  it.  Chop  the  liver  fine, 
mix  with  bread  crumbs,  chopped  onion,  and  parsley,  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  bind  with  a  beaten  egg,  and  stuff  the  body 
with  it.  Sew  up,  roast,  baste  with  salt  and  water.  In  order 
to  make  it  crisp,  rub  it  with  a  rag  dipped  in  its  own  grease. 
Serve  with  the  gravy  made  of  browned  flour.  Serve  it 
whole  on  a  platter,  and  put  a  baked  apple  in  its  mouth.  It 
is  very  nice  stuffed  with  apples  peeled  and  sliced.  Opossum 
may.  be  made  into  a  very  palatable  stew. 

HARE— JUGGED. 

After  casing  the  hare,  wipe  off  all  loose  hairs  carefully,  cu.t 
at  the  joints  and  fry  brown.  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper, 
chopped  parsley,  mace,  nutmeg,  cloves,  grated  lemon  peel, 
and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Put  a  layer  of  this  into  a  bean-pot 
or  a  small-necked  jar,  alternately  with  a  layer  of  thin  slices 
of  bacon,  until  all  are  used.  Pour  I  cup  of  water  over, 
cover  closely  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  water.  Boil  3  hours  or 
longer  if  the  hare  is  old  and  tough.  Skim  out  when  done 
and  strain  the  liquor.  Take  one  teaspoon  each  of  flour  and 
butter  ;  mix  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  add  the  strained 
liquor.  Let  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  hare  in  a  deep  dish. 

RABBIT  BOILED-  LIVER  SAUCE. 

Truss  for  boiling  ;  cover  with  hot  water  and  cook  gently 
about  45  minutes,  if  of  medium  size.  In  another  vessel,  boil 
the  liver  for  10  minutes,  mince  very  fine  and  put  it  back  into 


53 

Rabbit.  GAME.  Rabbit. 

the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  season  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  thicken  with  flour,  and  pour  over  the  rabbit. 
Onion  sauce  is  preferred  by  some,  in  which  case  serve  it  in 
the  same  manner  as  the  liver  sauce. 

RABBIT— FRIED. 

After  skinning,  cleaning,  and  wiping  dry,  fry  the  same  as 
chicken.  Unless  known  to  be  young  and  tender,  it  is  a 
surer  way  to  parboil  before  frying. 

RABBIT   PIE. 

After  cleaning,  cut  up  like  chicken  and  stew  until  tender. 
Then  put  into  a  deep  pan  with  sides  lined  with  pie-paste. 
Thicken  the  gravy  and  add  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Pour 
over  and  cover  with  crust.  Bake  about  20  minutes. 

RABBIT— ROASTED. 

After  skinning  and  cleaning,  lay  in  salt  water  for  an  hour. 
Parboil  the  heart  and  liver,  mince  them  with  a  slice  of  fat 
salt  pork,  and  add  thyme,  union,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  bread 
crumbs  moistened  with  the  water  in  which  the  giblets  were 
boiled.  Mix  with  a  beaten  egg.  Stuff  the  rabbit  with  this, 
sew  up,  rub  the  body  with  butter  or  tie  over  it  a  few  slices 
of  fat  pork.  Put  a  cup  or  more  of  water  into  the  dripping- 
pan.  Baste  often.  An  hour  will  generally  suffice  for  cook- 
ing it.  Dredge  with  flour  before  taking  it  from  the  oven, 
and  pour  melted  butter  over.  When  browned  remove  to  a 
hot  dish,  and  to  the  gravy  add  lemon  juice,  a  bit  of  minced 
onion,  and  one  tablespoon  of  flour  made  smooth  with  the 
same  quantity  of  butter.  Let  boil  up  and  serve  in  a  gravy 
dish.  Garnish  the  rabbit  with  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of 
green  parsley. 

RABBIT  STEW. 

Skin,  clean,  and  cut  in  small  pieces  a  couple  of  rabbits. 
Let  stand  in  cold  salted  water  for  an  hour.  Then  put  on  to 


54 

Pemmican.  GAME.  Venison. 

cook,  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  till  ten- 
der. Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  I  tablespoon  of 
butter  made  smooth  with  2  tablespoons  of  flour  into  the 
gravy.  Lemon  juice  is  an  improvement.  If  onions  are 
liked,  they  may  be  boiled  in  a, dish  by  themselves  and  added 
to  the  gravy  before  dishing  up.  Serve  rabbits  and  gravy 
together  on  a  large  platter. 

PEMMICAN— TO  PREPARE. 

Pemmican  is  made  of  the  lean  portions  of  venison,  buffalo, 
etc.  The  Indian  method  is  to  remove  the  fat  from  the  lean, 
dry  the  lean  in  the  sun  ;  then  make  a  bag  of  the  skin  of  the 
animal,  and  put  the  lean  pieces  in  loosely.  To  this  must  be 
added  the  fat  of  the  animal,  rendered  into  tallow,  and  poured 
in  quite  hot.  This  will  cause  all  the  spaces  to  be  filled. 
When  cold,  put  away  for  future  use.  In  civilized  life,  a  jaf 
can  be  used  in  place  of  the  bag.  Pemmican  may  be  cooked 
same  as  sausage,  or  eaten  as  dried  beef.  It  is  invaluable  in 
long  land  explorations,  and  is  of  great  use  in  sea  voyages. 

RACCOONS— See   Woodchucks. 

SQUIRREL  PIE. 

Clean  one  pair  of  squirrels  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Wipe  off  with  a  damp  cloth.  Put  into  a  stewpan  with  2 
slices  of  salt  pork,  and  water  to  nearly  cover.  Cook  until 
half  done.  Season  it  well  and  thicken  the  gravy.  Pour 
into  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  pie  crust,  and  bake  30  minutes. 
Squirrels  may  be  fried,  broiled,  or  stewed,  like  chickens  or 
rabbits. 

VENISON— ROAST. 

The  haunch  is  the  choicest  piece  for  roasting.  Wipe  off 
with  a  damp  cloth.  Rub  over  with  butter  or  lard.  Then 
cover  the  top  and  sides  with  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water 
half  an  inch  deep.  Lay  a  coarse  paper  over  all  and  put  to 


55 

Venison.  GAME.  Sausage, 

roast  with  one  cup  of  water  in  the  dripping-pan.  Keep  the 
oven  well  heated.  Baste  every  15  or  20  minutes  with  butter 
and  water.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving  remove  the 
paste  and  paper,  and  dredge  with  flour,  and  baste  with  but- 
ter until  of  a  light  brown.  Pour  in  a  pint  of  water  and 
make  a  thickened  gravy  as  for  roast  beef  or  pork,  adding  a 
pinch  of  cloves,  nutmeg,  cayenne,  and  a  few  blades  of  mace. 
Strain  before  sending  to  table,  and  2  tablespoons  of  currant 
jelly  may  be  added  if  you  have  it.  Have  dishes  very  hot. 
The  shoulder  is  also  a  good  roasting  piece,  but  need  not  be 
covered  with  the  paste  as  in  the  above  directions. 

VENISON    SAUSAGE. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  old  salt  pork  and  bits  of  raw 
venison.  Chop  fine.  To  each  pound  of  chopped  meat  add 
3  teaspoons  of  sage,  ij  of  salt,  and  I  of  pepper.  Make  into 
flat  cakes  and  fry  with  no  other  fat,  as  that  in  the  sausage  is 
sufficient. 

VENISON  STEAKS. 

These  take  longer  to  cook  than  beef,  but  should  be  simi- 
larly broiled  or  fried.  When  done,  place  in  a  hot  dish  with 
a  gravy  made  of  butter  the  size  or  an  egg  for  each  pound  of 
steak,  mixed  with  a  spoon  of  flour,  and  properly  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Jelly  may  be  added  if  desired. 
Before  serving,  cover  the  platter  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for 
5  minutes  or  less.  Have  the  plates  well  heated,  as  venison 
cools  quickly.  At  table  it  is  nice  to  place  a  bit  of  jelly  on 
each  piece  served. 

VENISON  STEW. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  Inferior  cuts  will  make  a 
very  good  stew.  Boil  for  a  couple  of  hours.  Season  to  suit 
the  taste.  Add  potatoes  peeled,  and,  if  large,  cut  in  two. 
When  done,  skim  out,  thicken  the  gravy  and  pour  over. 


56 

Woodchucks  and  'Coons.  GAME.  Cranes  and  Herons. 

WOODCHUCKS  AND    'COONS. 

Mrs.  E.  E.  Bower,  Erie,  Pa. 

In  Pennsylvania,  woodchucks  are  called  ground-hogs  and 
esteemed  a  great  delicacy,  and  really  a  fine  fat  one  well 
roasted  is  not  to  be  despised.  To  cook  either  ground-hogs 
or  'coons,  parboil  for  30  minutes,  to  take  off  the  wild  smell; 
then  rub  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  roast  in  a  quick 
oven  at  first,  allowing  the  fire  to  cool  gradually  ;  30  min- 
utes to  every  pound  is  a  safe  rule.  Young  animals  need  no 
parboiling.  Where  fire-places  are  used,  people  cook  them 
on  a  spit  over  a  dripping-pan. 


GAME. 


CRANES  AND  HERONS.       DUCKS.       PARTRIDGE.        LARKS. 

PIGEONS.       PILAU.        PLOVER.      PRAIRIE  CHICKEN. 
QUAIL.         REED-BIRDS,  RAILS,  AND  SNIPE.          WOODCOCK. 


CRANES  AND   HERONS. 

May  be  broiled  or  stewed,  like  chickens.  They  make  a 
very  fine  soup.  Dress  and  joint  5  or  6  and  put  into  a  pot 
with  an  equal  weight  of  beef  cut  small ;  slice  I  onion  (or 
more)  ;  add  a  slice  of  fat  pork  ;  water  to  cover.  When  ten- 
der add,  if  you  have  them,  about  a  pint  of  oysters  with 
their  liquor.  Crabs  cleaned  and  quartered  may  be  substi- 
tuted. Let  simmer  till  done.  Then  just  before  serving  stii 
in  i  or  2  tablespoons  of  gumbo,  if  you  have  it  prepared. 

DUCKS— CANVAS  BACK— ROASTED. 

Pluck,  singe,  draw,  and  wipe  well.  Do  not  wash  ;  let  the 
duck  retain  its  own  flavor  as  far  as  possible.  Leave  the 
head  on  to  show  its  species.  Roast,  without  stuffing,  25  or 


57 

Ducks.  GAME.  Partridge. 

30  minutes,  in  a  hot  oven,  after  seasoning  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Baste  with  butter  and  water.  A  bit  of  cayenne  and  a 
tablespoon  of  currant  jelly  added  to  the  gravy  are  an 
improvement.  Thicken  with  browned  flour. 

DUCKS— WILD— ROASTED. 

Prepare  for  roasting  the  same  as  any  fowl.  Parboil  for  15 
minutes  with  an  onion  in  the  water,  and  the  strong  fishy  fla- 
vor that  is  sometimes  so  disagreeable  in  wild  ducks  will  have 
disappeared.  A  carrot  will  answer  the  same  purpose. 
Stuff  with  bread  crumbs,  a  minced  onion,  season  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  sage,  and  roast  until  tender.  Use  butter  plen- 
tifully in  basting.  A  half  hour  will  suffice  for  young  ducks. 

DUCKS— WILD— STEWED. 

Cut  the  ducks  into  joints  ;  pepper,  salt,  and  flour  them  ; 
fry  in  butter  in  a  stewpan.  Then  cover  with  a  gravy  made 
of  the  giblets  and  some  bits  of  lean  veal  if  you  have  it,  all 
minced  and  stewed  in  water  until  tender  Add  a  minced 
onion  or  shallot,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  salt  and 
pepper,  with  a  bit  of  lemon  peel.  Cover  closely  and  let 
them  stew  until  tender.  About  30  minutes  will  suffice. 
Skim  out  the  ducks  ;  skim  and  strain  the  gravy,  add  a  cup 
of  cream  or  milk  and  a  beaten  egg,  thicken  with  browned 
flour,  and  let  boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  ducks.  The 
juice  of  a  lemon  may  be  added,  or  lemon  may  be  sliced  and 
served  on  the  ducks. 

PARTRIDGE  PIE. 

After  dressing,  divide  in  halves,  rub  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
flour,  sprinkle  in  parsley,  thyme,  and  mushrooms,  if  you 
happen  to  have  them.  Put  a  slice  of  ham  and  2  pounds  of 
veal  cut  up  small  at  the  bottom  of  the  baking-dish.  Then 
add  the  partridges  and  pour  over  them  a  pint  of  good  broth 
or  gravy.  This  is  for  about  4  birds.  If  you  have  no  gravy, 
*8 


Larks.  GAME.  Pigeons. 

use  water  with  a  large  spoon  of  butter.  Cover  with  rich 
pie-paste.  Leave  an  opening  in  the  center  and  bake  about 
I  hour. 

PARTRIDGE— BROILED. 

Pick  and  draw  ;  divide  through  the  back  and  breast,  and 
wipe  with  a  damp  cloth.  Season  highly  with  pepper,  salt, 
a  bit  of  cayenne,  and  broil  over  a  clear,  bright  fire.  It  will 
broil  in  15  or  20  minutes.  When  done  rub  over  with  butter. 
Serve  with  lemon  laid  in  slices  on  the  bird. 

LARKS. 

Clean,  wipe  dry,  brush  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  egg, 
roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  roast  in  a  quick  oven  for  10  or  15 
minutes.  Baste  with  butter  and  keep  them  covered  with 
bread  crumbs  while  roasting.  Serve  the  crumbs  under  the 
birds  and  lay  slices  of  lemon  on  them. 

PIGEON  PIE. 

Do  not  stuff  pigeons,  but  cut  them  in  4  pieces ;  parboil 
and  place  in  layers  with  egg  and  pork  or  bacon,  as  directed 
for  quail  pie.  Use  plenty  of  butter  to  make  the  gravy  rich. 
Bake  same  as  quail  pie. 

PIGEONS— POTTED. 

Pluck  and  clean.  Take  a  cracker,  an  egg,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter or  chopped  suet  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  pinch  of 
sage  or  sweet  marjoram.  Make  into  small  balls  and  put 
One  with  a  thin  slice  of  salt  pork  into  each  bird.  Lay  the 
birds  close  together  in  a  pot.  Dredge  well  with  flour.  Put 
in  a  good  tablespoon  of  butter  to  6  birds.  Cover  with 
water.  Cover  the  pot  and  stew  slowly  for  about  an  hour 
and  a  half.  Less  time  if  young  and  very  tender,  and  longer 
if  old.  Serve  on  a  large  platter  with  the  gravy.  Other 
birds  may  be  potted  the  same  way. 


59 

Pilau.  GAME.  Plover. 

PIGEONS— STEWED. 

Take  the  grated  crumbs  of  a  small  loaf  of  bread,  chop 
fine  a  pound  of  fat  bacon,  a  sprinkling  of  thyme,  parsley, 
and  pepper,  mix  with  a  couple  of  raw  eggs,  stuff  the  craws 
of  the  pigeons  with  this,  lard  the  breasts  and  fry  them 
brown.  Then  put  into  a  stewpan  with  some  beef  gravy  and 
stew  |  of  an  hour.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour.  Serve  on  a  platter  and  strain  the  gravy  over 
them.  A  nice  accompaniment  is  a  row  of  force-meat  balls 
around  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

PILAU   OF  BIRDS. 

Boil  2  or  3  large  birds  or  half  a  dozen  small  ones  with  a 
pound  of  bacon  in  water  enough  to  cover  well.  Season  it 
with  salt.  When  tender  take  them  out  with  a  little  of  the 
liquor.  Into  the  remainder  put  2  pounds  of  clean  washed 
rice.  Cook  until  done,  keeping  closely  covered.  Stir  into 
it  a  cup  of  butter,  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  a  layer  of  the  rice 
in  a  deep  dish.  On  this  lay  the  birds  with  the  bacon  in  the 
middle.  Add  the  liquor.  Then  cover  them  all  with  the 
rice  that  is  left.  Smooth  it  and  spread  over  it  the  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs.  Cover  with  a  plate  ;  bake  15  or  20  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

PLOVER. 

Clean  and  truss.  Lay  in  a  pan  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Rub  over  with  butter  and  cook  in  a  quick  oven. 
A  piece  of  fat  bacon  or  salt  pork  laid  on  each  one  gives  a 
good  flavor.  Toast  some  bread  and  put  a  piece  under  each 
bird  before  it  is  quite  done.  Baste  with  butter  and  water. 
Take  up  on  a  hot  platter,  a  bird  on  each  slice  of  toast,  and 
serve  together. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKEN— ROASTED. 

Remove  all  shot,  clean  quickly  and  thoroughly.  Cut  open 
and  lay  on  them  thin  slices  of  salt  pork.  Place  in  a  drip- 


6o 

GAME.  Quail. 


ping-pan  with  a  cup  of  water,  and  cook  in  the  oven  until 
done.  The  time  will  vary  from  40  minutes  to  an  hour  and 
a  half,  according  to  the  size  and  age  of  the  bird. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKENS— STEAMED  AND  BAKED. 

Stuff  them,  after  cleaning,  with  a  dressing  of  bread 
crumbs  and  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  mixed  with 
melted  butter.  Sage,  onion,  or  summer  savory  may  be 
added,  if  liked.  Secure  the  fowl  firmly  with  a  needle  and 
twine.  Steam  in  a  steamer  until  tender.  Then  remove  to 
a  dripping-pan,  dredge  with  flour,  pepper,  and  salt,  and 
brown  delicately  in  the  oven.  Baste  with  melted  butter. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  lumps  of  currant  jelly.  Prairie 
fowls  may  be  stewed  or  broiled  the  same  as  other  birds 
mentioned  in  this  chapter. 

QUAIL— BROILED. 

Clean  and  split  down  the  back.  Wipe  carefully,  season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  -place  on  a  gridiron  over  a 
clear,  hot  fire.  Turn,  and  when  clone,  lay  on  a  hot  dish  ; 
butter  well,  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

QUAIL  PIE. 

Clean,  truss,  and  stuff  the  quails.  Parboil  for  10  or  15 
minutes.  Line  the  sides  of  a  deep  pan  with  rich  pie-paste. 
In  the  bottom  put  a  couple  of  slices  of  salt  pork  or  bacon 
cut  into  small  pieces.  Then  some  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
with  butter  and  pepper.  Then  the  quails  (after  removing 
the  cords),  with  a  sprinkling  of  minced  parsley.  The  juice 
of  a  lemon  is  an  improvement.  Put  bits  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour  over  the  birds,  then  a  layer  of  slices  of  egg  and  bits  of 
pork.  Pour  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  parboiled,  and 
cover  with  pie-paste,  leaving  an  opening  in  the  center. 
Bake  about  an  hour. 


6i 

Reed  Birds,  Rails,  and  Snipe.  GAME.  Woodcock,  Modes  of  Cooking. 

QUAIL— STEAMED. 

Steam  quail  until  nearly  done,  then  roast  in  the  oven  to  a 
nice  brown,  basting  often  with  melted  butter  in  water. 
Serve  on  buttered  toast.  Very  nice. 

REED  BIRDS,  RAIL  BIRDS,  AND  SNIPE. 

May  be  cooked  precisely  as  plovers,  or  they  may  be 
broiled  and  served  with  toast  the  same  as  quail  or  partridge. 

WOODCOCK. 

Many  excellent  cooks  do  not  draw  them,  asserting  that 
the  trail  should  be  left  in,  even  by  those  who  do  not  like  it, 
and  removed  after  it  is  served.  They  claim  that  the  flavor 
of  the  bird  is  much  impaired  if  the  trail  is  taken  out  before 
cooking.  It  looks  rather  plausible,  as  they  are  said  to  live 
by  suction,  have  no  crop,  and  a  stomach  only  the  size  of  a 
bullet.  The  trail,  head,  and  neck  are  regarded  as  great  deli- 
cacies by  epicures.  For  my  own  eating,  I  could  not  cook 
them  without  drawing. 

TO   BAKE. 

Divide  down  the  back,  put  in  the  oven,  salt  and  pepper 
them  and  baste  with  melted  butter.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
lemon. 

TO  BROIL. 

Split  down  the  back,  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth,  and  broil 
over  a  clear  fire.  Rub  on  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  when 
done.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  and  help  each  person  to  hall 
a  bird. 

TO     ROAST. 

Clean,  draw,  and  stuff  with  simple  bread  crumbs  well  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt,  and  moistened  with  sweet  cream 


62 

Frogs.  GAME."  Terrapin. 

or  melted  butter.  Sew  them  up.  Tie  a  small,  thin  slice  of 
salt  pork  around  the  bird.  Place  in  a  dripping-pan  and  baste 
with  butter  and  water.  Put  slices  of  buttered  toast  under 
them  before  taking  up,  and  serve  with  them. 


FROGS 


FROGS.  TERRAPIN  OR  TURTLE. 

FROGS. 

Skin  them  as  soon  as  possible.  The  hind  legs  are  usually 
the  only  part  used,  although  the  back  is  good  eating.  Fry 
or  broil  the  same  as  chickens — or  fricassee  them. 

TERRAPIN  OR  TURTLE. 

Plunge  the  turtle  while  yet  alive  into  boiling  water. 
When  life  is  extinct,  remove  the  outer  skin  and  the  toe-nails. 
Then  rinse  well,  and  boil  in  salted  water  until  perfectly  ten- 
der. Then  take  off  the  shells,  remove  the  gall  and  sand-bag 
carefully,  and  clean  the  terrapin  thoroughly.  Next  cut  the 
meat  and  entrails  into  small  pieces,  saving  all  the  juice,  put 
into  a  saucepan  without  water  and  season  to  your  taste  with 
salt,  cayenne,  and  black  pepper.  Add  for  each  terrapin, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  made  smooth  with  a  tablespoon  of 
flour.  A  few  tablespoons  of  cream  should  be  added  last. 
Many  persons  add  the  yolks  of  3  or  4  hard-boiled  eggs  just 
before  serving.  While  cooking  it  should  be  stirred  very 
often — and  must  be  dished  up  and  eaten  very  hot. 


MCXDES  OF  COOKIJJG. 


TO  PRESERVE.          TO  COLOR.          BOILED.          SCRAMBLED. 

FRIED.  POACHED.  STEAMED.          BAKED. 

PANNED.  SCALLOPED.  CURRIED.  CHOWDER. 


STUFFED. 


PICKLED. 


OMELET. 


GGS  are  regarded  by  some  as  a  great  deli- 
cacy ;  by  others,  as  a  prime  article  of 
food.  But  in  either  case,  the  mode  of 
cooking  has  much  to  do  with  the  satis- 
faction produced  in  the  eating.  The  yolk 
jg  considere(j  much  more  nutritious  than 
the  white. 

To  ascertain  the  freshness  of  an  egg,  hold  it  in  the  hand 
and  look  through  it  to  the  light.  If  it  looks  clear,  there  is 
tolerable  assurance  that  it  is  good.  Another  test  is  to  put 
them  in  a  clear  vessel  of  water.  The  good  ones  will  lie  on 
the  side. 

The  eggs  of  the  common  hen  are  esteemed  the  best. 
They  are  much  better  when  new-laid,  than  even  a  day  or 
two  afterwards. 

Turkey  eggs  are  almost  equal  to  those  of  the  hen — not 
quite  so  mild. 

Goose  eggs  are  large,  and  agreeable  to  the  taste. 
Duck  eggs  are  richly-flavored.     The  white  is  of  a  bluish 
tint,  and  will  cook  in  less  time  than  that  of  the  hen. 


64 

To  Preserve.  EGGS.  To  Color. 

Guinea-hen's  eggs  are  smaller  and  more  delicate  than 
those  of  the  common  hen. 

Eggs  of  wild  fowl  are  usually  colored,  and  often  spotted. 
They  frequently  taste  somewhat  like  the  birds  themselves. 

Eggs  of  land  birds,  such  as  the  plover,  are  much  liked, 
but  those  of  sea-fowl  have  a  fishy  taste  that  is  disagreeable. 

Turtle  eggs  are  numerous,  and  have  yolk  only.  The  eggs 
of  some  varieties  have  no  shell.  They  are  very  delicious. 
The  turtle  lays  from  150  to  200  at  a  time,  and  lays  several 
times  during  the  year. 

TO  PRESERVE  EGGS, 

Take  a  colander  full  at  a  time  of  new-laid  eggs,  and  pour 
over  them  a  tea-kettle  full  of  boiling  water.  The  heat  of 
the  water  cooks  the  white  of  the  egg  sufficiently  to  keep 
out  the  air.  I  have  known  of  eggs  being  used  in  midwin- 
ter, that  were  put  up  in  the  summer  in  this  way.  They 
should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  and  may  be  put  away  in 
boxes  or  baskets,  or  any  convenient  receptacle. 

Another  method  is,  to  dip  each  egg  in  gum-arabic  water, 
or  in  melted  grease.  In  either  case,  a  coating  is  formed  on 
the  shell,  rendering  it  air-tight. 

I  have  kept  eggs  three  months  in  an  egg  case,  with  no  prep- 
aration whatever.  Close  contact  would  have  spoiled  them. 

TO  COLOR  EGGS  FOR  EASTER. 

Wind  strips  of  bright-colored  calico  around  the  eggs,  and 
then  boil  in  lye ;  you  will  find  them  gayly  colored.  To 
color  them  yellow,  boil  with  onion  skins. 

BOILED    EGGS. 

Use  a  wire  egg-boiler  for  boiling  eggs  ;  3  minutes  cooks 
the  white  about  right  for  soft-boiled  eggs.  If  put  into  cold 
water  and  let  remain  to  a  boiling  point,  they  are  cooked 
more  evenly  than  by  plunging  into  hot  water  at  first.  And 


' 6s 

Scrambled.  EGGS.  Steamed. 

it  is  further  recommended  to  pour  boiling  water  on  the  eggs 
and  set  the  vessel  on  the  hearth  for  5   minutes. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Put  a  tablespoon   of  butter  in  a  frying-pan.     When  hot 
put  in  the  requisite  number  of  eggs  beaten  lightly.     Pepper ' 
and  salt  them,  and  add  half  a  cup  of  milk  to  a  dozen  eggs. 
Stir  constantly,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  set,  take  off 
and  pour  out.     They  must  not  be  hard. 

FRIED  EGGS. 

Butter  some  gem  irons  and  break  an  egg  in  each  one  and 
set  in  the  oven,  after  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Will 
cook  in  a  very  short  time. 

FRIED  HAM  AND  EGGS. 

Freshen  the  ham,  if  it  requires  it,  by  putting  it  on  the 
stove  in  cold  water,  and  pouring  off  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a 
scald.  Fry  the  ham  in  its  own  fat,  then  fry  the  eggs  after- 
ward in  the  same.  Dish  up  on  the  same  platter. 

BROILED  HAM  AND   EGGS. 

Broil  thin  slices  of  ham.  Put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each  slice 
when  done.  Poach  the  eggs  in  water,  and  lay  one  neatly  on 
each  piece  of  ham. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

Set  some  muffin  rings  in  boiling  water.  Break  each  egg 
in  a  ring,  and  it  will  take  the  form  of  the  ring,  and  be  much 
more  pleasing  to  the  eye  than  the  old  way. 

STEAMED  EGGS. 

Butter  a  tin  plate  and  break  in  your  eggs.  Set  in  a 
steamer,  place  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  steam  till 
the  whites  are  cooked.  If  broken  into  buttered  patty-pans 
they  look  nicer,  by  keeping  their  forms  better.  Or  still  bet- 
ter, if  broken  into  egg-cups  and  steamed  until  done,  they 
*9 


66 

Baked.  EGGS.  Currieo. 

are  very  nice.     Cooked  in  this  way,  there  is  nothing  of  their 
flavor  lost. 

BAKED    EGGS. 

Take  a  large  platter.  Break  on  it  as  many  eggs  as  you 
need  for  your  meal,  sprinkle  over  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
lumps  of  butter.  Set  in  the  oven,  and  in  about  5  minutes 
the  whites  will  be  set  and  the  eggs  sufficiently  cooked.  A 
handy  way  on  washing  or  ironing  days,  when  the  top  of  the 
stove  is  all  in  use. 

PANNED  EGGS. 

Make  a  minced  meat  of  chopped  ham,  fine  bread  crumbs, 
pepper,  salt,  and  some  melted  butter.  Moisten  with  milk 
to  a  soft  paste,  and  half  fill  some  patty-pans  with  the  mix- 
ture. Break  an  egg  carefully  upon  the  top  of  each.  Dust 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  sprinkle  some  finely-powdered 
cracker  over  all.  Set  in  the  oven  and  bake  about  8  minutes. 

Eat  hot. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS. 

Prepare  a  cup  of  thick  drawn-butter  gravy,  and  a  dozen 
hard-boiled  eggs.  Butter  a  pudding-dish  and  place  in  it  a 
layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  milk  or  broth. 
Add  2  beaten  eggs  to  the  drawn  butter.  Cut  the  boiled 
eggs  in  slices,  dip  each  slice  in  gravy  and  place  in  layers 
upon  the  bread  crumbs.  Sprinkle  these  with  cold  meat  or 
fowl  minced  fine.  Repeat  the  layers  and  put  over  all  a  cov- 
ering of  sifted  bread  crnmbs.  Heat  well  through  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

Boil  6  eggs  hard.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Mix  in  a  saucepan 
2  tablespoons  butter  and  I  of  curry  powder,  over  a  moder- 
ate fire.  Put  in  a  couple  of  chopped  onions  and  fry  soft. 
Add  a  cup  or  more  of  broth  or  rich  gravy  and  simmer  till 
the  onion  is  reduced  to  pulp.  Add  to  this  a  cup  of  cream, 
mixed  smoothly  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Let  boil  up 
and  add  to  it  the  eggs  cut  in  slices.  Heat  through  and  serve 
very  hot. 


67 

Chowder.  EGGS.  Pickled. 


EGG  CHOWDER. 

Fry  the  pork,  cook  onions,  potatoes,  etc.,  just  the  same  as 
for  fish  chowder.  After  everything  is  done,  just  before  you 
take  it  off,  break  in  as  many  eggs  as  there  are  persons  to  eat, 
and  let  it  boil  up  sufficiently  to  cook  them  through.  I  think 
those  who  try  it  will  like  it,  and  no  danger  of  choking  chil- 
dren with  bones. 

STUFFED  EGGS. 

Boil  eggs  hard.  Cut  a  piece  from  one  end  and  take  out 
the  yolk.  Chop  some  ham  or  veal  very  fine,  season  it  with 
salt  and  pepper,  mix  it  with  part  of  the  yolk  made  smooth, 
and  fill  the  egg  with  it.  Replace  the  cut  white  part.  A 
very  palatable  picnic  dish.  Boneless  sardine  with  the  skin 
removed  and  minced  very  fine,  is  a  good  stuffing. 

PICKLED  EGGS. 

Boil  eggs  very  hard  and  remove  the  shell.  Take  I  tea- 
spoon each  of  cinnamon,  allspice,  and  mace,  put  in  a  little 
muslin  bag  in  cold  water,  boil  well,  and  if  it  boils  away,  add 
enough  to  make  \  pint  when  the  spices  are  taken  out.  Add 
I  pint  of  strong  vinegar,  pour  over  the  eggs.  If  you  want 
them  colored,  put  in  some  beet  juice. 

PLAIN  OMELET. 

4     eggs. 
\  cup  milk. 
i     teaspoon  flour. 

Beat  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  fill  the  cup 
with  milk  tilt  half  full.  Then  put  this  mixture  and  the  four 
eggs  together,  just  sufficiently  to  break  the  yolks,  but  not  to 
beat  them.  Pour  this  into  a  hot  and  well-buttered  frying- 
pan  and  cover  it.  When  it  begins  to  cook,  roll  it  over  and 
over  like  a  jelly-roll,  and  as  soon  as  cooked,  turn  it  out  on  a 
hot  platter  with  as  little  handling  as  possible. 


68 

Omelet  Souffle.  EGGS.  Orange  Omelet 

OMELET  SOUFFLE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  light,  add  \  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice,  a  bit  of  grated  peel,  some  nutmeg,  and  J  teaspoon  of 
sugar.  Beat  well  and  add  lightly  5  tablespoons  of  cream. 
Butter  the  omelet  pan,  heat,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  stir  in 
lightly  with  a  fork  the  well-beaten  whites.  Cook  5  or  6 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Turn  upside  down  or  a  hot  plate 
and  serve  instantly. 

NOTE. — If  possible,  keep  one  pan  for  omelets  alone. 

OMELET    SACCHARINE. 

To  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  add  a  tablespoon  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  a  teaspoon  or  more  of  some  agreeable  essence. 
Mix  and  add  carefully  to  the  well-beaten  whites.  Pour  into 
a  hot,  buttered  frying-pan.  As  it  cooks  at  the  edges,  lift  it 
with  a  fork  and  toss  to  the  center.  Take  up  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

OMELET  CELESTINE. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

The  same  as  saccharine,  by  adding  2  spoons  of  currant 
jelly  before  taking  up. 

EGG  AND  ORANGE  OMELET. 

Three  eggs,  a  teaspoon  of  orange  juice,  and  a  teaspoon  of 
grated  rind  of  orange.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  sepa- 
rately, then  add  them  carefully  together  and  proceed  as  for 
plain  omelet. 


TIL— See  GARNISHES  and  DESCRIPTION  OF  COLORED  PLATES. 


ROAST  LEG  CF  PORK. 


FOWL 


ROAST  PIG. 


ROAST  TURKEY. 


FOREQUARTER  OF  LAMB. 


DESIGNED  AND  ENGRAVED  EXPRESSLY  FOR  MRS.  OWENS1  COOK  BOOK  BY  BAKER  &  CO 


C PI  1C  KENS.       TURKEYS,  GEESE,  AND  DUCKS. 


OULTRY  is  generally  an  acceptable  food,  and 
is  readily  digested.  To  an  invalid,  and 
persons  of  delicate  organization,  a  bit  of 
nicely-cooked  chicken  is  often  an  agreeable 
change.  The  methods  of  preparing,  cook- 
ing, and  serving  poultry  should  receive 
careful  consideration. 

To  judge  something  of  the  age  of  a  fowl,  examine  the 
pin  feathers,  the  texture  of  the  skin,  and  the  size  of  the 
spurs  on  and  the  legs. 

If  a  fowl  is  stall-fed,  the  layers  of  fat  are  a  sickly  white 
color,  and  have  none  of  the  wholesome  appearance  of  the 
free,  home-fed,  farm  poultry. 

The  skin  of  a  young  fowl  is  easily  torn. 
If  poultry  does  not  smell  sweet  inside,  discard  it. 
If  fowls  are  half  starved  during  the  summer,  no  amount 
of  extra  feeding  will  bring  them  up  to  as  high  a  standard 
for  the  table,  as  those  well  fed  from  the  day  of  their  leaving 
the  shell. 

During  the  last  three  or  four  weeks  before  killing,  give 
them  boiled  potatoes,  beets,  or  carrots,  thickened  with  corn- 
meal  for  their  morning  and  noon  meal,  and  corn  alone  at 


70 

Remarks.  POULTRY.  Remarks. 

night,  and  a  constant  supply  of  milk  placed  where  they  can 
get  it. 

Do  not  keep  them  in  pens  or  in  the  dark.  It  will  cer- 
tainly detract  from  their  market  value. 

Fowls  should  not  "be  fed  for  24  hours  before  killing.  Food 
in  the  crop  is  liable  to  sour. 

Turkeys  cared  for  in  this  way  should  weigh  on  an  average 
16  pounds  each,  when  between  6  and  7  months  old. 

A  dealer  in  poultry  in  the  city  says  that  bleeding  in  the 
mouth  is  the  best  mode  of  killing.  Leave  the  heads  and 
feet  on,  dip  the  fowl  in  nearly  boiling  water,  three  times, 
holding  it  by  the  legs.  Then  remove  the  feathers  quickly, 
and  without  tearing  the  skin  ;  then  dip  for  an  instant  into 
boiling  water,  and  then  into  cold  water.  Wipe  dry  inside 
and  out. 

Poultry  would  reach  our  markets  in  much  better  condi- 
tion if,  as  soon  as  dressed  and  wiped  dry,  a  piece  of  charcoal 
were  placed  in  each  one. 

To  singe  a  fowl,  pour  a  few  drops  of  alcohol  on  a  plate 
and  touch  it  with  a  lighted  match.  Handier  than  burning  a 
paper. 

To  draw  a  chicken  for  stuffing,  cut  a  slit  under  one  of  the 
legs,  so  it  may  be  hidden  by  sewing  up.  Take  the  crop  out 
from  a  cut  in  the  back  of  the  neck. 

To  truss  a  fowl,  tie  the  wings  and  thighs  securely  to  the 
body  to  keep  it  in  shape  for  boiling  or  roasting. 

To  truss  a  four-footed  animal,  tie  the  legs  down  securely. 

Rub  clear  lard,  or  lay  a  piece  of  fat  pork  over  a  fowl  when 
put  to  roast. 

The  giblets  of  poultry  are  the  head,  neck,  wings,  feet,  giz- 
zard, heart,  and  liver. 

To  catch  a  fowl  for  cooking,  have  a  coop  made  of  lath, 
with  an  opening  at  one  end.  Throw  a  handful  of  corn  in- 
side and  outside  of  it,  and  when  the  chicken  is  a  pris- 


To  Cut  Up  a  Chicken.  POULTRY.  Full  Directions. 

oner,  close  up  the  coop  and  take  it  out.     This  is  infinitely 
better  than  the  cruel  practice  of  chasing  or  shooting  them. 


CHICKENS. 

TO  CUT  UP.  TO  BONE.  FILLING  FOR  BONED  CHICKEN. 

MODES  OF  COOKING. 


HOW   TO  CUT  UP  A  CHICKEN. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

After  singeing  the  fowl,  wipe  with  a  wet  towel.  In  order 
to  get  as  many  pieces  as  possible,  cut  off  the  wings  so  that 
a  little  piece  of  the  breast  remains  with  the  wing.  Remove 
the  crop  by  cutting  the  skin  at  the  back  of  the  neck.  Cut  off 
the  neck  close  to  the  body.  Next  take  off  the  wing  side- 
bones.  Having  cut  them  loose  from  the  backbone,  bend 
them  toward  the  front  and  they  will  part  at  the  joint  ;  loosen 
them  with  the  knife.  Take  off  the  legs  next.  Instead  of 
making  a  division  between  the  second  joint  and  drum-stick, 
cut  midway  the  second  joint,  and  then  just  below  the  joint, 
and  trim  off  the  lower  end  of  the  drum-stick.  Next  cut 
through  the  side  just  where  the  breast-bone  joins  the  ribs. 
Then  the  breast-bone  can  be  pulled  free  from  the  back,  and 
the  entrails  can  be  taken  out  easily  without  breaking,  which 
is  a  consideration,  because  if,  in  drawing  a  chicken,  the 
entrails  are  broken,  it  becomes  necessary  to  wash  the 
chicken  so  much  that  the  flavor  is  impaired.  Cut  off  the 
lower  part  of  the  breast-bone  without  splitting  it,  because, 
while  that  is  a  very  nice  piece,  it  is  apt  to  be  a  very  small 
one.  If  there  are  any  pieces  of  ribs  attached  to  the  sides  of 
the  breast-bone  trim  them  off.  Cut  the  upper  part  into  2 
pieces  right  down  the  middle,  or  into  4 — down  the  middle 
and  then  each  piece  in  two — according  to  the  size  of  the 


To  Bone  a  Chicken.  POULTRY.  Filling  for  Boned  Chicken. 

chicken.  Having  cut  up  the  breast-bone,  the  entrails  are  to 
be  taken  away  from  the  back,  cutting  around  the  vent  being 
necessary  in  order  to  loosen  them.  The  oil-bag  is,  of  course, 
to  be  removed  ;  the  liver  also,  without  breaking  the  gall, 
which  can  be  avoided  by  leaving  a  little  piece  of  the  liver 
attached  to  it.  There  are  2  or  3  ways  of  preparing  the  giz- 
zard. Adopt  the  easiest.  Instead  of  taking  the  trouble  to 
split  the  gizzard,  and  trying  to  take  out  the  bag  of  stones 
within,  I  believe  it  best  to  cut  from  the  outside,  just  that 
portion  of  purplish  flesh  which  is  used.  If  there  is  on  it  any 
appearance  of  the  contents  wash  it.  Now  separate  the  back- 
bone and  neck,  and  notice  the  back  side-bones,  where  are 
located  the  "  oysters."  If  the  back  were  split  entirely 
down,  the  "oysters"  would  be  cut  in  two  ;  but  by  cutting  off 
the  end  of  the  backbone  they  are  preserved.  To  some,  they 
are  the  choicest  part  of  the  chicken. 

HOW  TO  BONE  A  CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY. 

Use  a  sharp-pointed  knife,  and  slit  the  skin  of  the  whole 
fowl  down  the  back  from  neck  to  oil-bag,  and  cut  and  scrape 
ofT  close  to  the  bones,  all  the  meat  and  skin  ;  scrape,  after 
jointing  the  thigh,  leg,  and  wing  bones,  the  last  joint  of  the 
wing  cut  off,  and  be  careful  of  the  skin  of  the  second  joint. 
When  you  have  removed  the  skeleton  and  entrails  save  all 
of  the  giblets.  Make  an  ordinary  filling  of  bread  and  but- 
ter minced  fine  with  the  giblets,  and  the  dark  meat  of  the 
fowls,  and  the  light  too,  if  desired  ;  but,  it  is  nice  to  leave 
the  light  for  chicken  salad.  Fill  out  wherever  the  bones 
have  been  taken  out,  and  shape  up  nicely,  sewing  the  skin 
all  down  the  back.  Bake  until  done,  basting  with  salt  and 
water  and  butter.  Draw  out  the  threads,  when  hot,  handle 
carefully,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold.  Any  kind  of  filling 
may  be  used.  The  bones  may  be  boiled  up  for  soup. 

FILLING  FOR  BONED  CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY. 
Use  |  as  much  force-meat,   as   the    fowl   weighs.     Lean 


73 

Smothered.  POULTRY.  Fricassee. 

veal,  and  lean  fresh  pork  chopped  fine,  and  for  each  pound, 
take  i  whole  egg,  I  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  allspice  mixed, 

1  teaspoon  salt.     Instead  of  the  veal,  another  fowl's    flesh 
may  be  used.     After  the  bones  have  all  been  removed,  put 
them  in  cold  water  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion 
stuck  with  6  or  8  cloves,  a  carrot  and  turnip  sliced.     Let 
boil,  add  salt,  skim  carefully.     Prepare  the  fowl  by  laying  it 
flat  down,  spread  on  a  layer  of  force-meat,  then  strips  of  fat 
pork  and  the  liver,  then  a  layer  of  mushrooms.     Then  run 
a  string  around  the  edges  of  the  chicken  and  draw  it  up  like 
a  wallet.     Having  sewed  up  the  ends,  then  sew  the  cut  that 
was  first  made  down  the  back.     Then  roll  it  up  in  a  tight 
bundle  in  a  towel.     Tie  the  ends  like  a  sack  of  flour  and  tie 

2  or  3  tapes  around  the  middle  as  tight  as  you  possibly  can. 
Boil  in  the  above  liquor,  adding  water  sufficient  to   cover  it, 
allowing  J  an  hour  to  the  pound.     Take   out  of  the  towel, 
wipe  off,  wrap  in  a  clean  towel  and  lay  on  a  platter,  put 
another  over  and  place  a  weight  on.     Use  the  remaining 
liquor  for  soup.     The  easiest  fowl  to  bone  is  a  year-old  tur- 
key. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  the  chicken  open  at  the  back  after  dressing  it.  Sprin- 
kle with  salt,  and  pepper,  and  little  lumps  of  butter.  Put  in 
a  baking-pan,  cover  with  another  pan,  and  bake  i  hour. 
Baste  often  with  butter. 

FRICASSEED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  every  joint  separate,  the  back  in  2  pieces,  and  the 
breast  in  3  or  more.  Stew  only  in  .water  enough  to  cover, 
until  the  meat  is  very  tender.  There  should  be  about  a  tea- 
cup of  water  in  the  pot.  Mix  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour 
with  a  cup  of  milk,  add,  and  let  boil  up.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  take  up  on  a  platter.  You  may  put  in  2 
slices  of  salt  pork  cut  in  strips  half  an  hour  before  serving, 
if  the  flavor  is  liked.  If  a  brown  fricassee  is  wanted,  pour 

*10 


74 

Fried.  POULTRY.  Stew. 

the  greater  part  of  the  liquor  off  just  before  the  chicken  is 
done,  and  add  a  lump  of  butter,  and  let  the  pieces  fry  brown 
in  the  pot. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  2  young  chickens  at  the  joints.  Roll  in  flour  that  is 
salted  and  peppered,  and  fry  slowly  in  hot  butter  and  lard, 
until  browned  on  both  sides.  When  done  take  out  on  a  hot 
platter  and  pour  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk  into  the  frying-pan. 
Thicken  with  I  spoon  of  flour  made  smooth  with  2  of  the 
milk.  Let  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  chickens.  If  pre- 
ferred, serve  the  gravy  in  a  separate  dish. 

CHICKEN   STEW. 

Cut  a  chicken  up  small.  Boil  till  tender  ;  make  a  thick- 
ening of  i  or  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  milk,  using  a  pint 
of  rich  milk,  or  cream,  if  it  is  to  be  had.  Season  well  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Have  ready  in  a  tureen,  some 
fresh  soda  or  baking  powder  biscuits  broken  in  halves. 
Pour  some  of  the  gravy  over  them,  and  reserve  the  remain- 
der to  serve  with  the  fowl  in  a  platter.  Be  sure  and  have 
plenty  of  gravy  ;  it  will  all  be  wanted. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW. 

One  chicken  or  2  squirrels  cut  up  small  with  \  pound  of 
bacon,  cut  small,  put  into  6  quarts  of  water.     Cook  tender, 
then  separate  the  meat  from  the  bones.     Return  the  meat 
to  the  pot,  adding  more  water  if  necessary.     Then  add  the 
following  vegetables,  measured  after  they  are  prepared: 
I     pint  tomatoes,  peeled  and  cut  fine. 
I     pint  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  fine. 
J  pint  corn,  grated  or  cut  and  scraped. 
\  pint  butter  beans. 
\  a  lemon,  juice,  and  grated  peel. 

Stew  until  done.  Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  stir  carefully  to  keep  from  burning.  Serve  hot. 


75 

Chicken  Pie.  POULTRY.  With  Oysters. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Cut  a  chicken  in  small  pieces  and  stew  till  tender.  Sea- 
son well  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Thicken  the  gravy 
with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  made  smooth  with  water.  Have 
ready  some  peeled  boiled  potatoes.  Line  the  sides  of  a 
deep  dish  with  rich  crust  ;  put  in  a  layer  of  chicken  and  a 
layer  of  potatoes  in  thick  slices.  Repeat,  and  pour  the 
gravy  over  it.  Cover  with  the  pie  crust.  Cut  a  slit  in  the 
top,  and  bake  till  the  crust  is  done.  Serve  hot. 

CHICKEN  POT-PIE. 

Cut  a  good-sized  chicken  in  small  pieces.  Put  a  small 
plate  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Put  the  chicken  in  and 
cover  it  with  hot  water.  Season  high  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt.  A  half  hour  before  serving,  drop  in  small  lumps 
of  dough  made  like  biscuit.  A  quart  of  flour  makes  enough 
dumplings  for  one  large  chicken.  Cover  closely  ;  20  or  25 
minutes  will  generally  cook  them.  Take  out  with  skimmer 
carefully,  on  platter,  and  if  gravy  is  not  thick  enough, 
thicken  it  with  a  small  spoon  of  flour  and  water,  made 
smooth.  Pour  it  over  the  chicken  and  dumplings. 

PRESSED   CHICKEN. 

Stew  slowly  2  chickens,  cut  up  small,  until  the  meat  drops 
from  the  bones  ;  then  take  out  and  chop  fine.  Let  the 
liquor  boil  down  to  a  cup  full.  Add  to  it  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  a  teaspoon  of  pepper,  little  allspice,  and  a 
beaten  egg  ;  stir  through  the  meat  ;  slice  a  hard-boiled  egg, 
lay  in  your  mould  and  press  in  the  meat.  When  served, 
garnish  with  celery  tops,  or  sprigs  of  parsley. 

CHICKEN  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Hale,  Sandwich,  111. 

Cut  a  couple  of  chickens  in  small  pieces,  boil  till  tender. 
Take  out  and  fry  in  butter  (or  use  part  lard.)  To  the 
liquor  they  were  boiled  in  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a 


76 ____ 

Giblet  Stew.  POULTRY.  Roast  Turkey. 

spoon  of  butter,    flour  to  thicken,   a  quart   of  oysters,    and 
some  milk  if  liked.     Boil  up  and  pour  over  the  chicken  in  a 

large  platter. 

GIBLET  STEW. 

When  stewing  chickens,  remove  giblets  and  serve  for 
lunch  as  follows:  Add  a  cup  of  the  cream  gravy  to  the  gib- 
lets, with  2  or  3  cups  of  cold,  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  J  inch 
squares.  Add  a  cup  of  milk,  heat  slowly.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  pour  into  a  dish,  and  put  I  or  2  sprigs  of  parsley 
on 'the  edge. 

For  chicken  salad,  see  "SALADS." 


TURKEYS    GEESE    AWD  (DUCKS. 


ROAST  TURKEY.          FRIED  TURKEY.         ROAST  GOOSE. 
GERMAN  RELISH.         ROAST  DUCKS.        STUFFING  FOR  DUCKS. 

ROAST     TURKEY. 

A  year  old  is  considered  best.  After  dressing,  salt  and 
pepper  the  inside.  If  prepared  the  day  before  it  will  be  all 
the  better  seasoned.  For  each  pound,  20  minutes  is  a  good 
general  rule.  Take  a  loaf  and  a  half  of  stale  baker's  bread 
for  a  good-sized  turkey.  Rub  fine  with  the  hands  ;  cut  a 
large  white  .onion  and  cook  a  few  minutes  in  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan. Do  not  brown  it.  Then  stir  in  your  bread,  I  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  I  of  pepper,  I  of  sage  ;  mix.  the  onion  in,  and 
use  melted  butter  sufficient  to  bind  all  together  ;  stuff,  tie 
the  wings  and  thighs,  to  keep  in  place.  Salt  and  pepper 
the  outside.  Put  \\  cups  of  water  in  the  dripping-pan  with 
the  turkey.  Lay  2  or  3  pieces  of  fat  pork  on  the  top,  or 
rub  well  with  lard.  Or,  better  still,  after  it  begins  to  brown, 
take  a  white  cloth,  double  it,  wring  it  out  of  water,  and 
cover  the  turkey  with  it.  Baste  frequently  over  the  cloth. 


77 

Oyster  Dressing.  POULTRY.  Roast  Goose. 

It  is  tender  and  luscious.  Do  not  let  the  cloth  scorch. 
Keep  an  even  fire,  watch  carefully,  and  turn  occasionally.  If 
oysters  are  liked,  a  pint  may  be  chopped  with  the  dressing. 
Lay  the  giblets  by  the  side  of  the  turkey,  and  when  done 
chop  fine,  and  put  in  the  gravy,  thickened  with  a  tablespoon 
of  flour.  Oyster  sauce  is  very  nice  served  with  roast  tur- 
key. See  directions  in  "OYSTERS."  Serve  with  cranberry 
sauce,  celery,  turnips,  boiled  onions,  or  any  vegetable,  fresh 
or  canned. 

OYSTER  DRESSING  FOR  TURKEY. 

Mrs.  Fannie  H.  Bower,  Parker,  Dak. 

Boil  the  liver,  heart,  and  gizzard  ^  an  hour.  Chop  fine 
with  bread  crumbs  sufficient  for  the  dressing.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  hard  butter  in  a  spider.  When  it  is  brown,  put 
the  dressing  in,  and  pour  in  about  2  tablespoons  hot  water. 
Let  steam  through,  stirring  it  meanwhile.  Take  out,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  in  I  pint  of  oysters  carefully, 
so  that  they  will  remain  unbroken.  Stuff  the  turkey  with 
this. 

FRIED  TURKEY. 

Mrs.  Albert  Willson,    Johnson  Junction,  Ky. 

Cut  slices  from  the  breast  of  a  raw  turkey.  Roll  in  flour 
salted  and  peppered,  and  fry  in  butter,  or  equal  parts  of  but- 
ter and  lard.  It  is  done  when  it  is  a  light  brown,  for  it 
cooks  very  quickly,  and  will  be  as  tender  as  a  partridge. 
Use  the  remainder  of  the  turkey  for  a  stew,  or  it  may  be 
stuffed  and  roasted.  Some  dressing  may  be  spread  over  the 
breast,  and  the  absence  of  the  part  taken  will  never  be 
noticed. 

ROAST  GOOSE. 

Parboil  for  2  hours  at  least.  Then  stuff*  with  seasoned 
mashed  potatoes.  Roast,  with  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pan. 
Baste  often.  When  done,  pour  off  the  surplus  fat,  as  it  is 
too  rich  for  the  gravy.  Add  water  to  make  up  the  amount 
required. 


78 

Geese  Livers.  POULTRY.  Roast  Ducks. 

FRIED  GEESE  LIVERS. 

Take  the  livers  from  geese  and  fry  them  with  slices  of  salt 
pork,  in  the  pork  fat.  They  are  very  palatable. 

GERMAN   RELISH. 

Take  a  nice  fat  goose,  take  off  the  loose  fat,  season  with  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  boil  till  nearly  tender,  with  just  water 
enough  to  cook  it,  then  put  in  I  pint  good  cider  vinegar, 
then  boil  till  very-  tender,  like  pigs'  feet  ;  then  pack  in  a 
stone  crock,  leaving  the  bones  in  with  the  meat.  It  is  a 
very  dainty  relish.  To  be  sliced  up  cold.  Turkey  or 
chicken  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner. 

ROAST  DUCKS. 

If  parboiled  for  an  hour  or  two,  before  putting  to  roast, 
the  strong  taste  is  lessoned.  Baste  same  as  when  roasting 
turkey. 

STUFFING  FOR  DUCKS. 

Mrs.  E.    B.    Baldwin. 

Half  pound  of  fat  pork  chopped  fine  ;  8  rolled  soda 
crackers  ;  I  egg,  I  minced  onion,  I  pint  milk  ;  sage,  pepper, 
and  salt. 

APPLE  STUFFING  FOR  DUCK. 

Five  sour  apples,  peeled,  quartered,  and  cored.  Stew 
until  half  done.  Add  I  tea-cup  bread  crumbs,  a  sprinkle  of 
cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  I  teaspoon  sage.  Mix  together, 
stuff,  and  roast. 


REMARKS.       BEEF.       VEAL.      MUTTON.      PORK. 
CURING  ME  A  TS. 


ON  CHOOSING.  ON  STEAMING. 

EAT   should    be  selected   carefully,  cooked  by 
the    best    methods,   and    eaten    at    regular 
times,    and    in     proper    quantities.       With 
these  hints  acted  upon,  and  with  thorough 
mastication,    there     would     be     fewer    dys- 
peptics  among   us. 
If  beef  is  good  it  will  be  fine  grained,  smooth,  bright  red 
and  fat. 

If  the  fat  is  yellow,  the  meat  is  not  prime. 
Veal  should  be  dressed  very  soon  after  killing. 
Good  veal  flesh  is   dry,    firm,    and   white,   with  kidneys 
covered  with  fat. 

Mutton  is  at  its  best  from  August  till  Christmas.'  Weth- 
ers are  better  mutton  than  ewes.  If  to  be  kept  long,  wipe 
often  and  dust  with  pepper. 

The  flesh  of  good  mutton  is  dark  red,  with  firm,  white  fat. 

Fresh  killed    lamb  is  pale  red,  with  bluish  veins  in  the 

neck.    Discard  it  if  the  neck  vein  is  green  or  of  a  yellow  tint. 

Pork  should   be  rejected  if  there  are  kernels  in  the  fat. 

The  skin  should  be  smooth  and  thin.    Discard  clammy  flesh. 

The  choicest  beef  cuts  for  roasting  are  the  fourth,  fifth, 

and  sixth  ribs. 


8o 

Remarks.  MEATS.  Remarks. 

If  a  roast  is  rolled  by  the  butcher,  have  him  send  home 
the  bones  for  soup. 

If  meat  or  fish  have  to  be  washed,  use  water  very  slightly 
salted.  That  prevents  the  extraction  of  the  natural  salts  of 
the  meat. 

If  it  is  necessary  to  freshen  ham  or  salt  pork,  it  is  recom- 
mended very  strongly  to  put  into  milk  and  water  for 
several  hours.  Sour  milk  will  answer  as  well  as  sweet. 
Rinse  after  taking  out.  This  also  applies  to  salt  mackerel. 

If  meat  is  eaten  when  first  killed,  it  will  be  tender.  If  a 
short  time  elapses,  the  muscles  stiffen,  and  it  will  be  tough. 
If  more  time  elapses,  the  muscles  relax,  and  it  will  be  ten- 
der again. 

Young  meat  of  all  kinds  should  be  cooked  very  thoroughly, 
to  be  healthy.  It  offers  less  resistance  to  masticaton,  hence 
will  be  less  liable  to  be  digested  properly.  Older  and 
tougher  meat,  offering  more  resistance,  will,  of  necessity, 
be  better  masticated  and  better  incorporated  with  the 
saliva ;  hence,  will  be  better  digested. 

In  cold  weather,  great  care  should  be  taken  to  heat  plates 
to  serve  at  table.  More  especially,  when  mutton  is  used. 
Many  a  good  dinner  has  been  spoiled  by  a  showing  of  cold 
mutton  tallow  on  a  still  colder  plate.  If  there  is  no  warm- 
ing oven  to  the  stove,  let  them  set  in  hot  water  for  a  few 
minutes. 

Fresh  meat,  if  to  be  boiled,  should  be  put  to  cook  in  boil- 
ing water,  and  if  more  water  is  needed  in  the  pot,  let  it  be 
boiling  when  added. 

Salt  meat  must  be  put  over  in  cold  water,  that  the  salt 
may  be  extracted  in  cooking.  Remove  the  scum  as  soon  as 
it  rises. 

To  be  tender;  meat  should  cook  very  gently  ;  hard  boil- 
ing toughens  it.  The  toughest  meat  can  be  made  tender  by 


8i 

Steaming.  MEATS.  Boiled  Dinner. 

boiling  it  a  long  time,  or  baking  it  in  a  covered  dish  in  the 
oven. 

REMARKS  ON  STEAMING. 

I  give  recipes  for  steaming,  boiling,  and  roasting  different 
meats.  But  my  own  favorite  manner  of  cooking  nearly  all 
kinds  of  meat  and  poultry,  vegetables,  and  dumplings, 
besides  puddings  and  bread  of  different  kinds,  is  by  steam- 
ing. I  use  a  steam  cooker,  having  different  chambers,  and 
we  cook  a  pudding,  a  piece  of  corned  beef,  potatoes,  and 
other  vegetables,  in  the  different  apartments  at  the  same 
time.  When  cooking  fresh  beef  or  mutton,  if  we  wish  to 
have  it  browned,  it  is  only  necessary  to  put  it  in  a  hot  oven 
for  a  few  minutes.  Too  much  cannot  be  said  in  favor  of 
steaming.  It  renders  food  very  nutritious  and  palatable, 
besides  being  economical  both  of  time  and  fuel.  Vegeta- 
bles are  never  water  soaked.  The  same  can  be  said  of 
dumplings  and  puddings. 


(BEEF. 

MODES  OF  COOKING.  YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

RHODE  ISLAND  DUMPLINGS. 

OLD-FASHIONED  BOILED  DINNER. 

Put  the  corned  beef  in  a  large  kettle  of  cold  water,  soon 
after  breakfast  (if  for  noon  dinner).  About  10  o'clock,  put 
in  the  salt  pork,  in  a  solid  piece,  I  or  2  pounds,  according  to 
size  of  family.  At  the  same  time,  wash  beets  very  carefully 
and  put  in.  If  they  are  very  large,  put  them  in  an  hour 
earlier.  Wash  some  carrots  very  thoroughly  ;  if  large, 
put  them  in  at  this  time  ;  if  small,  they  may  be  put  in  with 
the  potatoes.  At  I 1  o'clock,  put  in  peeled  turnips,  cut  in  3 


82 

Pot  Roast  of  Beef.  BEEF.  Roast  Beef. 

or  4  pieces.  Scrape  some  parsnips  and  put  in  at  the  same 
time.  Divide  a  head  of  cabbage  in  4  parts,  lengthwise,  and 
put  in  at  the  same  time,  with  good-sized  peeled  potatoes, 
allowing  a  good  half  hour  for  them  to  boil.  Beets  will  not 
injure  the  looks  of  the  other  vegetables  if  the  skin  is  not 
broken.  When  done,  put  them  in  cold  water,  to  remove  the 
skin,  cut  lengthwise  in  3  or  4  pieces,  and  dish  up.  Take  up 
the  cabbage  in  a  vegetable  dish,  after  draining  well.  A 
platter  is  scarcely  large  enough  to  hold  such  a  variety  of 
meat  and  vegetables,  and  it  is  unhandy  to  cut  up  the  meat ; 
hence,  it  is  better  to  dish  up  in  separate  dishes.  A  piece  of 
red  pepper  cooked  with  a  boiled  dinner  improves  it.  Grated 
horse-radish,  or  any  bottled  sauce,  should  be  served  with 
it.  The  best  dessert  with  this  dinner  is  a  boiled  Indian 
pudding. 

POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF. 

Get  a  solid  piece  from  the  round,  about  5  pounds.  Put  in 
a  medium-sized  kettle,  that  can  set  in  the  oven.  Put  it  over 
the  fire  in  hot  water,  to  cover  it.  Boil  slowly  for  3  hours  or 
more  ;  season  well ;  then  remove  the  meat,  and  thicken  the 
gravy  with  flour  and  water.  Put  the  meat  back  in  ;  set  in 
the  oven  ;  put  a  cover  over  and  let  cook  slowly  till  needed  ; 
2  hours  will  not  hurt.  This  mode  of  cooking  will  make  the 
toughest  beef  tender.  Serve  in  a  large  platter  with  part  of 
the  gravy  ;  but  dish  up  the  greater  part  in  a  gravy  dish. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

Put  the  beef  in  a  dripping-pan  without  water  into  a  very 
hot  oven  for  the  first  half  hour,  that  the  outside  may  sear 
over  and  keep  the  juices  inside.  When  half  done,  the  oven 
heat  may  be  lessened,  and  the  meat  salted  and  peppered. 
Pour  in  sufficient  water  and  thicken  for  gravy  when  the 
meat  is  done  ;  15  minutes  to  the  pound,  if  wished  rare  in 
the  center,  or  20  minutes  will  make  it  well  done.  Cranberry 
sauce  or  jelly,  turnips,  celery,  or  any  kind  of  canned  vege- 
tables, may  be  served  with  roast  beef. 


83 

Yorkshire  Pudding.  BEEF.  Beef  a  la  Mode. 

ROAST  BEEF  WITH  YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

When  roasting  a  piece  of  beef,  set  it  up  on  a  cricket  or 
muffin  rings,  so  that  the  juice  will  drop  into  the  pan  below ; 
|  of  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  mix  up  the  following  and 
pour  into  the  pan  under  the  meat :  I  pint  of  milk,  4  eggs, 
beaten  very  light,  pinch  of  salt,  I  cup  of  flour.  Cut  in 
pieces  and  serve  with  the  roast. 

BEEFSTEAK   STUFFED  WITH  POTATOES. 

Bone  a  large  and  tender  steak,  scatter  over  it  bits  of  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  salt,  a  little  sage,  and  finely-chopped  onion. 
Then  a  thick  layer  of  mashed  potatoes  well  seasoned.  Roll 
up,  sew  or  fasten  with  skewers.  Put  into  a  baking-pan  with 
a  cup  of  stock  or  gravy,  and  cook  slowly,  basting  often. 
Serve  with  a  rim  of  mashed  potatoes  around  the  platter,  and 
garnish  with  water-cresses 

MOCK  DUCK. 

Spread  dressing,  as  for  turkey,  on  a  thick  round  of  beef- 
steak ;  season,  roll  up,  tie,  and  roast ;  baste  often.  Serve 
with  gravy. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

Miss   Juliet  Corson. 

To  make  a  large  piece  off  the  round  tender,  make  holes 
with  a  steel  or  sharp  instrument,  and  insert  in  each  one  a 
little  strip  of  salt  fat  pork  ;  run  the  strip  with  the  grain. 
Let  each  end  project  ;  then  put  the  meat  in  a  bowl,  and 
with  it,  a  teaspoon  of  whole  cloves,  same  of  pepper-corns,  a 
bay  leaf,  half  a  tea-cup  of  carrots  sliced,  same  of  turnip  and 
onion  ;  not  any  salt ;  cover  with  vinegar  and  water.  Let 
stand  several  hours  ;  all  the  better  if  it  stand  2  or  3  days. 
If  the  fiber  is  tender,  take  it  out  of  the  pickle,  fry  it  brown 
in  a  pot  in  drippings  ;  then  put  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
turn  it  over  and  over.  When  brown,  cover  with  hot  water 


84         __ 

Beef  Stew.  BEEF.  Beefsteak. 


and  cook  >lowly.     Salt  it  when  half  done.     A  half  hour  to 
the  pound  usually  suffices. 

BEEF   STEW. 

Order  2  pounds  of  beef  or  veal  cut  up  small  for  a  stew. 
Cheap  cuts  answer  every  purpose.  Cook  2  or  3  hours.  Put 
in  some  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  halves,  and  some  onions 
if  they  are  liked.  Season  well ;  skim  out  into  a  platter ; 
thicken  the  gravy  and  pour  over.  This  will  give  a  good 
dinner  to  6  or  8  persons. 

BROILED   STEAK. 

Heat  and  grease  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  ;  have  a  bright 
fire,  with  live  coals  at  the  top.  Trim  the  steak  nicely,  a 
porter-house  or  sirloin,  for  broiling  ;  cut  off  the  little  tough 
end  of  the  porter-house.  It  will  do  better  service  in  the 
soup-kettle.  Lay  the  steak  on  the  gridiron,  cover,  and  as 
soon  as  seared,  turn  over  and  sear  the  other  side.  Turn 
again  during  the  cooking  ;  take  up  on  a  hot  platter.  Season 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  A  bit  of  onion  rubbed  over 
the  platter  before  taking  up  the  steak  gives  a  delicate  flavor 
that  is  delicious,  without  any  of  the  ofifensiveness  that  the 
onion  taste  imparts,  if  used  more  largely.  Garnish  broiled 
steak  with  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a  few  slices  of  lemon. 

BEEFSTEAK  SMOTHERED  WITH  ONIONS. 

Cut  up  6  onions  very  fine  ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
I  cup  of  hot  water,  2  tablespoons  butter,  some  pepper  and 
salt ;  dredge  in  a  little  flour.  Let  it  stew  until  the  onions 
are  quite  soft.  Broil  the  steak  according  to  directions  ;  put 
it  into  the  saucepan  with  the  onions  and  let  it  simmer  about 
5  minutes.  Serve  together  on  a  platter. 

ROUND  STEAK. 

A  favorite  way  of  cooking  beefsteak  in  the  South,  is  to 
take  a  piece  off  the  round,  fry  it  in  a  skillet  in  its  own  fat,  if 


Dried  Beef.  BEEF.  Beef  Tongue. 


sufficient,  in  drippings  if  not,  and,  when  done,  remove,  pour 
in  water,  and  thicken  with  flour,  and  make  gravy  to  pour 
over  the  whole  in  a  platter. 

ENGLISH  BEEFSTEAK. 

The  rules  adopted  by  the  celebrated  Beefsteak  Clvb, 
started  in  England  in  1734,  for  cooking  steak  : 

Pound  well  your  meat  till  the  fibers  break, 
Be  sure  that  next  you  have,  to  broil  the  steak, 
Good  coal  in  plenty  ;  nor  a  moment  leave, 
But  turn  it  over  this  way,  and  then  that  ; 
The  lean  should  be  quite  rare — not  so  the  fat. 
The  platter  now  and  then  -the  juice  receive, 
Put  on  your  butter,  place  it  on  your  meat, 
Salt,  pepper,  turn  it  over,  serve,  and  eat. 

FRIED   STEAK— TO  MAKE  TENDER. 

Mrs.  R.   H.    James,  Otsego,  Wis. 

Rub  the  steak  with  saleratus  and  let  stand  2  hours,  or 
over  night.  Rinse  off  quickly  and  wipe  dry.  Have  a  spider 
well  heated,  and  greased  with  butter.  Put  the  steak  in, 
turn  it  often  to  sear  it  over  and  keep  the  juices  inside.  Set 
it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  covered  for  a  short  time. 
Then  remove  to  a  hot  platter,  and  season  with  butter,  pep- 
per, and  salt.  It  is  easier  than  broiling  and  tastes  as  well. 

DRIED  BEEF. 

Chip  half  a  pound  of  dried  beef  fine  ;  put  it  in  a  stewpan, 
well  covered  with  cold  water.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
pour  off,  and  put  over  it  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk.  Thicken 
this  with  a  good  tablespoon  of  flour  wet  with  cold  milk  or 
water.  Put  in  a  bit  of  butter  and  pepper,  and  serve  with 
baked  potatoes.  A  nice  breakfast  or  lunch  for  home  people. 

BEEF  TONGUE. 

If  it  is  corned  it  should  be  soaked  a  few  hours  before  boil- 
ing. Cook  till  done,  then  peel.  If  it  is  to  be  served  hot, 


86 

Beef  Heart.  BEEF.  Pressed  Beef. 

make  a  sauce  of  a  can  of  tomatoes,  an  onion,  a  carrot,  salt 
and  pepper,  a  spoon  of  flour,  well  cooked  and  strained,  and 
poured  over.  If  to  be  eaten  cold,  put  a  weight  on  it  ;  when 
ready  to  serve,  cut  in  very  thin  slices. 

BEEF  HEART  EQUAL  TO  TONGUE. 

In  the  forenoon,  put  the  heart  into  a  weak  brine.  In  the 
evening,  change  to  another  brine.  In  the  morning,  put  to 
cook  in  boiling  water  and  cook  fully  3  hours.  When  tender, 
have  ready  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  mixed  with  melted 
butter,  and  pepper,  and  salt,  and  stuff  it.  Put  it  in  an  oven 
.20  minutes,  to  cook  the  dressing.  Let  get  cold,  and  slice 
very  thin  ;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  if  necessary. 

PRESSED  BEEF. 

Buy  a  shank  of  beef.  Boil  till  it  falls  from  the  bone. 
Remove  every  piece  of  bone,  boil  down  a  little  longer. 
Season  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  bit  of  sage,  if  liked. 
Pour  into  a  form.  Excellent  cold. 

STUFFED   PRESSED   BEEF. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Johnston,  Leavenworth,  Kas. 

Take  a  large  steak,  spread  it  with  well-seasoned  dressing  ; 
roll  up,  sew  it  in  a  stout  bag  and  boil  3  hours  in  salted 
water.  Take  it  out,  put  a  weight  on  and  press  until  cold  ; 
then  slice. 

TO  PRESS  CORNED  BEEF. 

Put  over  in  cold  water  and  boil  till  the  bones  fall  out. 
Let  it  cool  in  the  water  ;  then  remove,  wrap  it  tightly  in  a 
towel,  put  in  a  cool  place  with  a  weight  on  it.  Slice  very 
thin.  Garnish  with  pickles. 

BEEF  SAUSAGE  CAKE. 

One  pound  salt  pork,  2  of  raw  chopped  beef.  Salt  and 
pepper.  Make  into  balls  and  fry. 


87 

Deviled  Kidneys.  BEEF.  Liver  Rolls. 


SPICED  BEEF. 

3  pounds  raw  beef  chopped  with 
J  pound  suet.     Add 

2  eggs. 

J  pint  crumbs  of  bread. 

4  tablespoons  cream. 

1  teaspoon  butter. 

2  teaspoons  summer  savory. 
I  teaspoon  salt. 

J  teaspoon  pepper. 

Mix  and  work  into  a  loaf,  using  flour  to  bind  it.  Bake  in 
a  pan  and  baste  with  butter  and  water.  It  will  cook  in  2 
hours,  or  perhaps  less  time.  Slice  cold. 

DEVILED  KIDNEYS. 

Miss   Juliet  Corson. 

Three  tablespoons  of  oil,  I  of  vinegar,  saltspoon  of  salt, 
pinch  of  pepper,  and  a  teaspoon  of  mustard.  Dip  the 
sliced  kidneys  in  the  above  mixture  and  broil  them.  After 
they  are  broiled,  sprinkle  a  little  cayenne  pepper  on.  Serve 
when  plenty  of  water  can  be  afforded.  Deviled  means  very 
hot. 

STEWED  KIDNEYS. 

Parboil  a  few  minutes  ;  drain  off  the  water  and  boil  again 
for  5  or  10  minutes  ;  then  cut  up  small,  put  in  fresh  water 
and  cook  until  tender.  Season  well,  and  thicken  the  gravy. 

LIVER   ROLLS. 

Have  the  liver  sliced  ;  pour  on  boiling  water,  and  let 
stand  5  minutes,  or  so.  Remove  the  skin  ;  season  the  slices 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  little  piece  of  fat  salt  pork  on 
each  slice  and  roll  up,  fastening  with  a  string.  Then  brown 
them  in  a  tablespoon  of  drippings  or  butter  ;  then  throw  in 
a  tablespoon  of  flour  among  them  ;  stir  them  about,  cover 
with  water  ;  season  more  if  necessary,  and  COOK:  ^  an  hour. 
Remove  strings  and  serve  as  a  regular  meat  dish  at  dinner. 


88 

Liver.  BEEF.  Tripe. 

TO  FRY  BEEF  LIVER. 

Scald,  and  peel  off  the  edges.  Roll  in  flour  that  is  salted. 
Fry  in  butter  in  a  pie-tin  on  top  of  the  stove.  It  has  a 
oetter  taste  than  if  cooked  in  an  iron  spider. 

BEEF  LIVER  FRIED  AND  STEWED. 

Scald  and  peel  off  the  edge  ;  put  to  fry,  and  when  both 
sides  are  brown,  cover  with  water  in  the  frying-pan  ;  put 
cover  over,  and  let  stew  15  or  20  minutes.  If  the  liver  is 
rolled  in  flour  a  nice  gravy  will  be  made  in  the  stewing. 

FRIED  TRIPE. 

Scrape  the  tripe.  Cut  it  into  squares  of  3  inches  ;  boil  in 
salted  water  ;  when  very  tender,  take  out  ;  cut  up  smaller  ; 
season,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  brown  in  hot  lard.  When  done, 
pour  a  cup  of  water  in  the  frying-pan,  and  thicken  with  flour 
mixed  smooth  with  vinegar ;  pour  over  the  tripe,  hot. 
Good  for  breakfast. 

POTTED.  TRIPE. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Boil,  clean  and  cut  up  fresh  tripe.  Three  pounds  01 
tripe  ;  I  very  large  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  all  peeled,  a  tea- 
spoon of  whole  cloves,  same  of  whole  pepper,  2  bay  leaves, 
a  sprig  of  parsley.  Put  in  a  jar.  Half  cover  with  broth  or 
water.  If  broth  is  used,  fill  up  with  water,  having  a  half  gill 
of  vinegar  in  it.  Paste  the  cover  on  with  flour  and  water, 
and  bake  6  hours. 

CURRIED  TRIPE. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Take  the  tripe,  as  it  ordinarily  comes  from  the  market 
(it  is  generally  cooked);  parboil  it  for  a  few  minutes,  putting 
it  on  in  cold  salt  and  water.  Pour  off  that  and  put  on 
another,  boil  for  15  minutes  ;  take  it  out,  and  put  in  that 
water  some  rice  to  boil — the  proportion  is  half  a  pound  to  a 


.. 89 

Rhode  Island  Dumplings.         '  VEAL  Veal  Stuffed. 

pound  of  tripe.  Boil  the  rice  until  just  tender.  At  the 
time  of  putting  in  the  rice,  slice  and  fry  brown  in  a  sauce- 
pan, 2  onions  in  butter  or  drippings  ;  then  add  the  tripe  and 
enough  hot  water  to  cover.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  let  it  cook  until  the  rice  is  done  ;  add  a  tablespoon  of 
curry  powder  to  the  tripe.  Stir  it  up,  and  dish  the  tripe 
with  the  rice  around  it.  If  the  tripe  is  not  pickled,  add  a 
tablespoon. of  vinegar  before  taking  up. 

RHODE  ISLAND  DUMPLINGS. 

One  quart  of  corn  meal,  \  teaspoon  of  salt,  wet  up  with 
cold  water  stiff.  Pat  with  the  hands  into  little  balls.  Put 
them  on  the  bottom  and  around  the  sides  of  a  kettle,  and 
pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  boil  briskly  an  hour.  To 
be  eaten  with  meat  gravies.  You  can  cook  potatoes  with 
them. 


VEAL. 

HOW  TO  COOK.      LOAF.      MARBLED.     SWEETBREADS.     LIVER. 

VEAL  ROAST. 

Same  as  pork  ;  be  sure  and  cook  well  through.  Squash 
is  a  palatable  vegetable  to  serve.  Stewed  tomatoes  are  also 
good  ;  currant  jelly  is  always  nice. 

STUFFED  VEAL. 

Have  the  butcher  make  an  incision  for  dressing.  Use 
bread  crumbs,  a  taste  of  onion,  a  raw  egg  beaten  up,  and 
any  herbs  that  are  desired.  Stuff,  and  cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  till  well  done,  about  25  minutes  to  the  pound. 

VEAL  POT-PIE. 
Take  2  pounds  veal — a  rib  piece  is  good— cut  it  in  small 


90 

Veal  Loaf.  VEAL.  Marbled  Veal. 

pieces,  put  it  into  a  pot,  having  placed  a  small  plate  in  the 
bottom  to  keep  the  meat  from  burning.  Put  in  2  quarts  of 
water,  either  hot  or  cold.  Keep  it  boiling  for  about  an  hour 
and  a  half.  Then  make  a  quart  of  flour  into  biscuit  dough, 
and  proceed  as  directed  for  chicken  pot-pie.  Be  sure  that 
there  is  water  sufficient  to  cover  the  meat  entirely,  when 
the  dumplings  are  put  in,  and  cover  closely  for  at  least  20 
minutes.  Potatoes  may  be  cooked  with  it,  but  we  prefer 
them  cooked  separately  and  mashed. 

VEAL   CUTLETS. 

Fry  until  pretty  well  done  ;  then  take  out  and  dip  into 
beaten  egg,  and  then  in  rolled  cracker,  with  salt  stirred  in, 
and  fry  again,  turning  so  as  to  get  a  nice  brown  on  each  side. 
Make  a  gravy  of  water  and  a  spoonful  of  flour  in  the  frying- 
pan  and  pour  over.  Season,  if  not  salted  enough  ;  tomatoes 
are  nice,  served  with  cutlets. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Smith,  Chicago. 

3  pounds  uncooked  veal. 

|  pound  salt  pork — both  chopped  fine. 

1  cup  rolled  cracker. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoon  sugar. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 

I  teaspoon,  pepper. 
Make  into  a  loaf,  and  bake  2  hours.     Slice  cold. 

MARBLED  VEAL. 

Take  any  pieces  of  cold  cooked  veal,  season  palatably, 
and  pound  fine  in  a  mortar.  Skin  a  cold  boiled  tongue,  cut 
it  up  and  pound  to  a  paste,  adding  to  it  its  own  bulk  of  but- 
ter. Put  alternate  layers  of  the  veal  and  tongue  into  a  pot, 
press  down  hard,  and  pour  clarified  butter  on  top.  It  cuts 
prettily,  like  veined  marble.  The  white  meat  of  poultry 


gi 

Sweet  Breads.  VEAL.  Calf's  Live,. 

may  be  used  in  place  of  veal.     Use  a  tray  if  you  have  no 
mortar. 

SWEET  BREADS  LARDED. 

Soak  in  cold  water  and  salt  for  an  hour  ;  then  put  on  in  a 
quart  of  cold  water  and  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  let  come- 
slowly  to  a  boil  ;  then  put  in  cold  water  to  cool  sufficiently 
to  handle  ;  then  lard  them  with  little  strips  of  dry  salted  fat 
pork,  1-16  of  an  inch  thick.  After  they  are  larded,  put  in 
the  oven  for  15  minutes;  brown' them  a  little,  and  in  the 
meantime  make  a  garnish  of  whatever  you  wish.  French 
green  peas,  mushrooms,  string  beans,  or  a  plain  white  sauce. 

SWEET  BREADS  FRIED. 

Parboil  them  as  soon  as  you  get  them.  Remove  the  tough 
parts  carefully.  Let  them  lie  in  cold  water  a  short  time 
before  using,  then  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  fry. 

SWEET  BREADS  WITH  OYSTERS— BAKED. 

Boil  the  sweet  breads  tender  ;  it  will  take  but  5  or  10 
minutes.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  half  a  cup  of 
cream,  tablespoon  butter,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  thicken  with 
a  tablespoon  of  flour  made  smooth  with  a  little  water.  Line 
the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  deep  dish  with  rich  pie-paste. 
Put  in  the  bottom  the  same  quantity  of  oysters  that  you 
have  of  sweet  breads,  then  the  sweet  breads,  and  fill  up 
with  the  gravy.  Cover  with  crust  and  bake  until  the  crust 
is  done. 

CALF'S  LIVER  LARDED. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Use  fat  salt  pork,  as  it  is  easier  to  lard  with  than  pickled. 
For  larding  small  birds,  the  strips  should  be  i|  inches 
long  and  1-16  of  an  inch  thick  ;  for  chickens,  J  of  an 
inch  thick ;  beef  a  la  mode,  J  an  inch  thick.  These 
strips,  called  lardoons,  are  to  be  inserted  in  ihe  surface  of 


To  Prepare.  MUTTON.  To  Roast. 

the  liver  with  a  larding  needle.  Wash  the  liver  in  cold 
water,  and  trim  the  loose  pieces  off,  but  not  the  skin  proper. 
Lay  it  on  a  folded  towel  held  in  the  hand,  curve  the  point 
of  the  needle  a  little,  take  a  stitch  in  the  meat,  work  the 
needle  back  and  forth  2  or  3  times,  insert  the  strip  of  pork 
in  the  forked  end  of  the  needle  and  pull  through,  leaving 
half  an  inch  or  so  each  side  of  the  stitch.  Dot  the  whole 
surface  with  this  culinary  embroidery.  Put  the  liver  on  a 
bed  of  a  few  scraps  of  pork,  a  little  carrot,  turnip,  and  onion 
in  a  baking-pan.  In  baking,  put  a  buttered  paper  over  it 
until  nearly  done  ;  then  remove  the  paper,  and  let  the  lar- 
doons  brown.  The  vegetables  should  be  rubbed  through  a 
sieve,  and  the  drippings  found  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
used  as  a  basis  for  sauce  or  gravy. 

STEWED  CALF'S  LIVER. 

Partly  cook ;  then  cut  up  small  and  finish  stewing. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Thicken  with  a  table- 
spoon of  flour  mixed  with  2  spoons  water.  Serve  hot  ;  is 
nice  for  breakfast. 


MUTT  ox. 

MODES  OF   COOKING  MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Before  cooking  mutton,  take  a  sharp  knife  and  loosen  the 
thin  outside  skin  and  remove  entirely.  The  oil  of  the  wool 
penetrates  through  the  pores  of  the  skin,  and  from  this 
comes  that  strong  woolly  taste,  rendering  mutton  so  objec- 
tionable. Use  plenty  of  its  own  fat  in  which  to  cook  it. 

MUTTON  ROAST. 
Same  as  pork,  but  is  not  objectionable  if  a   little   rare. 


93 

Irish  Stew.  MUTTON.  Leg  of  Lamb. 

Mint  sauce  is  a  usual  accompaniment.     Turnips  are  served 
with  mutton. 

BOILED    MUTTON. 

A  leg  of  mutton  boiled  is  a  savory,  juicy  meat.  Let  the 
water  cook  down  sufficient  for  gravy.  Boil  some  rice, 
and  eat  as  a  vegetable,  with  boiled  mutton  ;  or  coarse  boiled 
hominy  is  equally  as  good.  With  lamb  or  mutton, 
some  eat  currant  jelly  with  a  sprinkling  of  mustard, 
and  consider  it  exceedingly  palatable. 

IRISH  STEW. 

Take  6  mutton  chops,  8  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in  two, 
6  onions,  peeled  and  sliced.  Put  into  the  pot  a  layer  of 
potatoes,  then  2  chops  with  part  of  the  onions,  repeating 
until  all  are  used.  Season  with  pepper  (white  if  you  have 
it),  salt,  and  a  tablespoon  of  catsup.  A  slice  of  fat  ham 
may  be  added,  or  butter,  if  preferred.  Put  in  a  pint  of 
water  and  cover  tightly,  and  let  stew  very  gently  for  ii 
hours.  Watch  that  it  does  not  burn. 

MUTTON  CHOPS. 

Place  in  a  dripping-pan  ;  season  well,  and  set  in  a  hot 
oven.  This  is  the  nicest  way  we  have  ever  cooked  mutton 
chops.  The  gravy  may  be  thickened  or  not,  just  as  you 
prefer.  It  is  not  necessary  to  turn  them. 

MACARONI  MUTTON. 

Six  slices  of  mutton,  ^  pound  of  macaroni,  sauce  of  any 
kind,  pepper,  salt,  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  and  a  little 
water.  Put  all  together  in  a  stewpan,  keep  the  lid  on,  and 
stew  gently  for  I  or  ij  hours. 

LEG  OF  LAMB— TO  ROAST. 

All  lamb  should  be  very  well  cooked,  and  not  put  too 
near  the  fire  at  first;  from  18  to  20  minutes  to  the  pound 
before  a  clear  but  not  fierce  heat.  It  may  be  served  with 
spinach,  peas,  or  asparagus. 


94 

Lamb  Stew.  PORK.  Roast  Pork. 


LAMB  STEWED  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

Cut  the  scrag  or  breast  of  lamb  in  pieces  and  put  into  a 
stewpan  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  it.  Cover  it 
closely  and  let  it  stew  for  20  minutes.  Take  off  the  scum  ; 
add  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  ;  cover 
and  let  them  stew  for  J  an  hour ;  mix  a  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  butter,  and  stir  in  and  let  it  simmer  10  minutes  ;  then 
serve.  If  you  mix  the  flour  with  cream  it  makes  it  better. 
Veal  is  nice  cooked  in  this  way,  with  half  a  dozen  small  new 
potatoes  added  with  the  peas. 

BLANQUETTE  OF  LAMB,  OR  WHITE  STEW. 

Have  the  lamb  cut  in  pieces  and  put  over  in  water  to  par- 
boil. If  any  scum  rises,  skim  off.  When  it  has  boiled,  take 
out  and  wipe  with  a  wet  towel  if  any  scum  appears.  Strain 
the  broth.  Use  It  for  a  white  sauce,  beginning  by  putting  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire  ;  stir  together  until  well  mixed,  and  gradually 
add  the  broth  in  which  the  meat  was  parboiled.  Season  the 
same  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Add  the  meat  and 
cook  until  the  lamb  is  tender  ;  stir  in  it  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
and  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 


SO  USE.     PIGS'  FEE  T.     PAX  SNIP  S  TE  W.     NO  ODLES.     OMELE  T. 

ROAST   PORK. 

Season  well.  Put  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pan,  and  roast 
slowly  at  first,  allowing  fully  \  hour  to  a  pound.  Baste 
often.  Cook  very  thoroughly.  Make  gravy  after  pouring 
off  the  surplus  from  the  top  of  the  drippings.  Fried  cabbage 
is  very  good  with  pork.  Any  tart  sauce  may  be  used,  or 


95 

Chine  Fie.  PORK.  Spare- Ribs. 


any  canned  vegetable.     Turnips  go  nicely  ;    celery  always 
admissible.     Fried  apples  are  also  very  nice. 

BAKED   CHINE. 

Rub  the  neck  chine  with  salt.  Put  into  a  dripping-pan 
with  a  pint  of  water.  Lay  a  dozen  sweet  potatoes,  nicely 
cleaned,  around  the  meat.  Cover  as  closely  as  possible 
with  a  pan,  and  cook  in  the  oven  until  done.  Dish  up  all 
together  on  a  platter.  Irish  potatoes  may  be  used  instead 
of  sweet  potatoes. 

CHINE   PIE. 

Mrs.  Mary  Willson,  Johnson  Junction,  Ky. 

Take  the  backbone  of  a  young  pig,  or  the  small  end  of 
the  backbone  of  a  large  hog.  Cut  in  small  pieces.  Stew 
till  tender,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  thicken  the  gravy 
with  flour  and  water.  Line  the  sides  of  a  baking-pan  with 
crust,  put  in  the  mixture  and  cover  with  crust  and  bake. 

ENGLISH  PORK-PIE. 

Make  a  pie-crust,  not  very  rich,  and  put  around  the  sides 
of  a  deep  pie-dish.  In  the  bottom,  and  above,  put  layers 
of  thin  sliced  bacon,  thin  sliced  potatoes,  onions  chopped  or 
sliced  very  fine  ,  lean  fresh  pork  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  sage.  Fill  the  dish  with  any 
good  gravy  left  from  roasts,  or  with  water  thickened  for  the 
occasion,  with  some  butter  added.  Cover  with  crust,  and 
bake  about  i  \  hours.  Cover  the  pie  with  thick  brown  paper 
if  it  gets  too  brown. 

SPARE-RIBS. 

Spare-ribs,  as  they  are  sold  in  the  city,  are  so  very  spare 
that  it  is  an  improvement  to  roast  them  with  a  dressing  of 
bread  crumbs.  Lay  some  ribs  in  the  dripping-pan ;  salt 
and  pepper  ;  spread  over  them  a  dressing  of  crumbs,  sea- 
soned with  pepper,  salt,  and  sage ;  then  lay  on  more  spare- 
ribs  ;  put  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pan  ;  season  ;  roast  till  well 


96 . 

Tenderloins.  PORK.  Pigs'  Feet. 

done  ;  pour  off  the  top  for  fryings  ;  add  more  water  and 
thicken  for  gravy.  Fried  apples  are  a  nice  accompaniment 
to  spare-ribs. 

STEWED   PORK  TENDERLOINS. 

Heat  and  grease  the  spider,  put  in  the  tenderloins,  and 
fry  both  sides  brown,  but  do  not  cook  them  through  ;  cover 
with  foiling  water,  and  stew  20  minutes  or  ^  hour  ;  thicken 
the  gravy,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  The  meat  will 
taste  about  equal  to  chicken. 

FRIED  PORK   TENDERLOINS. 

Flatten  the  tenderloins,  or  split  them.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  fry  in  hot  fat  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides. 
Serve  hot. 

TO  KEEP  FRESH  PORK. 

Roast  as  many  pieces  as  you  wish  to  keep,  all  ready  for 
the  table  ;  then  put  them  away  in  lard.  All  that  is  neces- 
sary is  to  heat  through  when  wanted,  and  the  lard  is  just  as 
good  as  any  for  frying  doughnuts,  mush,  croquettes,  etc. 

ROAST  PIG. 

Scald  and  clean  the  pig  carefully.  Make  a  dressing  of 
bread  crumbs,  sage,  salt,  and  pepper  ;  stuff;  sew  up  ;  fasten 
the  legs  back  so  that  the  under  part  will  crisp  nicely. 
Dredge  with  flour  and  put  into  a  hot  oven.  Baste  fre- 
quently with  melted  butter.  When  done,  pour  off  the  fat 
from  the  top  of  the  drippings,  add  water  to  the  remainder, 
and  thicken  for  gravy.  Serve  in  a  gravy  dish,  and  stand 
the  pig  up  on  a  platter,  and  garnish  with  green  parsley  or 
celery  tops. 

HOW  TO  .COOK  PIGS'   FEET. 

Clean  well  and  wrap  each  foot  in  a  cotton  bandage  wound 
around  it  2  or  3  times,  and  secured  with  cord;  then  "boil 
them  4  hours  ;  keep  them  in  the  cloths  till  needed  to  fry, 


97 

Head  Cheese.  PORK.  Pork  Toast. 

broil,  or  pickle.  If  cooked  in  this  way  the  skin  will  hold  it 
together  while  cooking,  and  they  will  be  found  very  delicate 
and  tender. 

STEWED  PIGS'  FEET. 

Mrs.  Wm.  DeBell,  Mt.  Carmel,  Ky. 

Soak  the  feet  in  salt  and  water  for  an  hour,  or  even  all 
night.  Then  cover  with  water  in  a  kettle  and  boil  for  2 
hours.  Take  out  and  put  in  a  baking-pan,  pour  over  some 
of  the  broth  and  brown  in  the  oven.  The  water  left  in  the 
kettle  is  good  to  boil  cabbage  and  turnips  in. 

SOUSE. 

Put  the  pigs'  feet  and  ears,  when  well  cleaned,  over  the 
fire  in  cold  water.  Boil  till  tender  ;  pour  over  them  in  a  jar 
a  pickle  made  of  cider  vinegar,  whole  peppers,  cloves,  and 
mace,  boiling  hot.  They  will  be  ready  to  eat  in  3  days,  or 
less. 

HEAD  CHEESE. 

Clean  the  head  well,  and  soak  in  brine  24  hours  ;  then 
boil  it  till  very  tender.  Remove  all  bones,  and  add  to  it  a 
boiled  heart,  tongue,  and  part  of  a  liver  ;  chop  very  fine ; 
add  salt,  pepper,  sage,  and  onion,  if  wished.  Mix  well  ;  put 
in  a  colander  and  set  over  hot  water  at  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing, put  it  to  press. 

PARSNIP  STEW. 

One  pound  of  salt  pork  sliced  ;  boil  an  hour  or  more  ; 
scrape  and  cut  in  lengthwise  quarters  5  or  6  parsnips,  add  to 
the  pork,  and  after  boiling  ^  hour  add  a  few  potatoes,  and 
let  all  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done.  The  water  should 
cook  down  to  about  a  pint,  when  ready  to  dish  up. 

PORK  TOAST. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  A.  White,  Maywood,  111. 

Cut  salt  pork  in  thin  slices,  and  fry.  Remove  to  a  dish  to 
serve  ;  then  put  equal  parts  of  hot  water  and  sweet  milk 


98 

Pork  and  Liver.  PORK.  Bacon  and  Snaps. 

(about  a  cup  of  each)  with  the  gravy.  When  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  stir  in  a  teaspoon  of  flour  wet  up  with  cold  milk  or 
water.  Then  dip  in  slices  of  toasted  bread.  Lay  the  toast 
in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  over.  Milk  may  be  used 
alone  if  preferred  richer. 

PORK  AND  LIVER. 

Fry  some  nice  slices  of  pickled  pork  or  bacon,  a  nice 
brown,  on  each  side.  Pour  boiling  water  on  the  slices  of 
liver ;  remove  the  thick  skin  at  the  edges  ;  roll  in  salted 
flour,  and  fry  in  the  pork  gravy,  after  taking  up  the  pork. 
Cook  slowly  and  thoroughly  on  both  sides.  Serve  each 
person  with  a  slice  of  each.  It  has  been  recommended  to 
steam  the  liver  15  minutes,  before  frying,  in  place  of  scald- 
ing. It  is  worth  a  trial. 

SALT  PORK  AND  FRIED  APPLES. 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  in  slices.  Fry  slowly  in  a 
deep  frying-pan.  When  done,  take  up  on  a  hot  dish. 
Meanwhile  wash,  wipe  and  cut  in  slices  6  sour  apples, 
When  the  f>ork  is  taken  up,  put  them  into  the  frying-pan, 
and  cook  in  the  gravy  until  tender.  Serve  hot  on  the  plat 
ter  with  the  pork. 

BACON  AND  CABBAGE. 

Cut  a  cabbage  in  two  and  lay  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  if 
convenient.  Put  it  to  cook  in  boiling  water  at  10  o'clock. 
At  10:30  add  a  pound' of  bacon,  and  let  boil  together  until 
noon.  Dish  up  together. 

BACON  AND  SNAPS. 

String  2  quarts  of  beans,  and  put  into  cold  water  until  2 
hours  before  dinner.  Then  put  into  a  pot  with  |  pound 
bacon  that  has  commenced  to  boil.  Let  cook  until  noon. 
Take  the  bacon  up  on  a  platter.  Skim  the  snaps  out  and 
lay  around  it.  There  should  be  water  enough  to  covet 


99 

Ham  Noodles.  PORK.  To  Stuff  a  Ham. 

them  well,  and  by  the  time  they  are  done  it  will  be  boiled 
down  nearly  dry.  Many  persons  put  the  beans  on  to  boil 
at  8  o'clock,  as  they  require  such  a  long  time  to  cook.  In 
such  cases,  the  bacon  is  not  added  until  2  hours  later. 

HAM  NOODLES. 

Make  noodles  by  the  recipe  on  page  u,  using  that  recipe 
as  a  guide  to  the  quantity  required  for  the  family.  Boil 
them  in  water  salted  lightly.  Have  some  cold  boiled  ham  ; 
chop  it  very  fine.  Butter  an  earthen  dish  well,  and  put  in  it 
alternate  layers  of  noodles  and  chopped  ham — about  a  pint 
of  ham  and  a  little  more  noodles.  Beat  up  2  eggs  with  I  pint 
sweet  cream.  Pour  over  the  top  ;  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of 
grated  bread  crumbs  and  small  lumps  of  butter.  Bake  deli- 
cate brown. 

HAM  OMELET. 

Mrs.  Z.  B.  Glynn,  East  Boston,  Mass. 

2  eggs. 

4  tablespoons  butter. 

2  tablespoons  minced  ham,  free  from  fat. 

Pinch  of  pepper. 

Fry  the  ham  for  2  minutes  in  a  little  butter.  Then  mix 
the  ingredients  all  together  and  proceed  as  with  a  plain 
omelet.  Serve  very  hot.  Lean  bacon  or  tongue  will 
answer  equally  as  well,  but  should  be  slightly  cooked  previ- 
ous to  mixing. 

TO  STUFF  A  HAM. 

Boil  it  very  slowly.  If  it  boils  hard,  it  will  be  in  strings. 
Let  simmer  all  day,  if  necessary  ;  then  skin  and  remove 
extra  fat.  Make  stuffingr  of  bread  crumbs  moistened  in 
water  and  seasoned  with  pepper,  butter,  parsley,  celery,  or 
any  other,  if  preferred.  Cut  the  bone  out  with  a  sharp 
knife.  Take  yolks  of  2  or  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  mix  with  the 
ham-water  enough  to  moisten  ;  spread  over  the  ham,  grate 
bread  crumbs  over  all,  and  brown.  Ornament  with  slices  of 
hard-boiled  egg,  fanciful  cuts  of  pickled  beets,  cloves,  or 
green  parsley.  Slice  cold.  Delicious  for  a  cold  collation. 


IOO 

Cold  Ham.  CURING  MEATS.  Corning  Beef. 

COLD  BOILED  HAM. 

In  boiling  ham  or  corned  beef  to  eat  cold,  it  is  far  better 
if  let  remain  in  the  water  until  cold.  Slice  on  a  platter,  and 
garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg  or  lemon. 


MEJTS. 


BEEF.       TONGUES.      MUTTON.      HAM.      SAUSAGE.       LARD. 

t  _  $  _ 

BEEF  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin,  Chicago. 

ioo  pounds  of  beef. 
4  pounds  of  coarse  salt,  made  fine. 
4  pounds  of  sugar. 
4  ounces  of  saltpeter. 

Mix  the  salt,  sugar,  and  saltpeter  well  together,  and  rub 
the  meat  all  over  with  it,  and  pack  the  pieces  closely  in  a 
barrel.  Put  no  water  in,  as  it  will  make  its  own  pickle.  In 
warm  weather,  if  a  scum  rises,  skim  it  off  and  add  a  little 
fine  salt.  This  will  preserve  it,  with  no  further  trouble. 
The  beef  should  be  kept  till  juicy,  before  attempting  to 
pack  it  at  all.  This  is  very  necessary  to  have  it  tender  and 
keep  well.  At  first,  turn  it,  and  rub  the  mixture  in  quite 
often. 

CORNING  BFEF,  OR  TONGUES. 

Mrs.  Emma  Graves,  Seattle,  'Washington. 

ioo  pounds  of  beef. 
8  pounds  salt. 
4  pounds  sugar. 
\  pound  saltpeter. 
8  gallons  water. 

Boil,  skim,  and  cool.  Pack  the  meat  a  little  loose  in  the 
barrel,  and  pour  the  brine  over.  The  meat  should  be 
covered  and  a  weight  kept  on  to  keep  it  under.  Meat,  to 
dry,  should  be  kept  in  brine  2  weeks.  Hams,  to  smoke,  2  to 


101 

Corned  Mutton.  CURING  MEATS.  Bologna  Sausage. 

3  weeks.  Meat  is  often  made  too  salt.  Soaking  to  take 
salt  out,  takes  goodness  from  the  meat.  Pork  should  never 
be  salted  with  beef,  or  in  a  beef  barrel. 

CORNED  MUTTON. 

50     pounds  of  mutton. 

2  pounds  each  bay  salt,  common  salt,  and  brown  sugar. 

3  ounces  each  black  pepper  and  allspice, 
ij  ounces  each  cloves  and  mace. 

Pound  the  ingredients,  and  mix  thoroughly  together,  and 
dry  in  a  warm  place.  Rub  it  while  hot  into  the  meat. 

CURE  FOR  HAM  AND  DRIED  BEEF. 

J  pound  rock  salt. 

^  pound  common  salt. 
i     pint  molasses, 
i     ounce  black  pepper, 
i  ounce  saltpeter. 

This  is  for  18  pounds  of  meat.  Rub  it  into  the  meat 
every  day  in  the  tub  and  turn  the  meat  over  and  over. 

BOLOGNA  SAUSAGE. 

3  pounds  fresh  pork. 

3  pounds  veal. 

3  pounds  ham  or  salt  pork. 

2  teaspoons  black  pepper. 

i  teaspoon  each  cayenne  and  cloves. 

9  teaspoons  powdered  sage. 

i  onion  minced  fine. 

i  grated  nutmeg. 

A  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  powdered. 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  mix  thoroughly  and  stuff  into  beef 
intestines.  Scrape  and  wash  them  very  carefully,  and  leave 
in  salt  water  till  wanted  for  use.  Tie  the  case  at  each  end 
when  filled,  prick  in  several  places,  boil  I  hour.  Then  dry 
in  the  sun.  Rub  over  with  melted  butter,  and  hang  in  a 
cool,  dry  place.  To  be  cut  in  thin  slices  and  served  without 
further  cooking. 


102 

Sausage.  CURING  MEATS.  Rendering  Lard. 

SAUSAGE. 

John  N.  Owens,  Lewisburg,  Ky. 

100    pounds  pork,  chopped  fine. 
2     pounds  salt. 
\  pound  black  ground  pepper. 
\  pound  sage. 
^  ounce  cayenne.* 

Mix  well  and  put  away  in  bulk  or  in  cases. 

Sausage. 

2  pounds  lean  fresh  pork. 

1  pound  fat  pork. 

3  teaspoons  sage. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 

2    teaspoons  pepper. 

J  teaspoon  cloves. 

A  pinch  of  nutmeg. 

Chop  very  fine  and  mix  well.  To  keep  it  any  length  of 
time,  pack  it  in  a  jar  and  pour  hot  lard  over  it. 

TO  RENDER  LARD. 

Cut  the  leaf  up,  put  into  a  kettle  without  water.  Season 
slightly  with  salt  as  it  melts.  To  clarify  it,  take  slippery 
elm  bark  from  near  the  roots,  peel  it,  and  use  in  the  propor- 
tion that  you  would  raw  potato.  It  will  be  sweeter'  and 
whiter,  and  keep  better  than  with  the  use  of  potatoes. 
Strain  through  a  coarse  cloth.  Many  old  housewives  render 
the  lard  without  clarifying  at  all.  They  salt  it  slightly  if 
they  want  it  to  last  through  the  summer.  To  melt  lard,  take 
the  fat  from  the  smaller  intestines,  and  the'flabby  pieces  not 
fit  for  salting,  strip  the  skin  carefully  from  the  inside  fat,  and 
cut  small.  Put  into  a  crock  and  set  in  boiling  water  ;  simmer 
until  it  melts.  Strain  it  through  a  coarse  cloth  into  small 
jars,  and,  when  cold,  tie  over  them  the  skin  that  was  freed 
from  the  fat,  or  bladders  that  are  washed  and  dried. 


,  HASH. 


F  a  medium-sized  family  has  meat  twice  a  day, 
there  can  easily  be  gotten  drippings  enough 
for  frying  all  the  potatoes,  French  toast,  mush, 
wonders,  and  scrapple  they  may  serve  from 
time  to  time.  Hashes  and  croquettes  are  very 
palatable  dishes,  and  cost  but  little  except  the 
labor  of  preparing  them. 

In  clearing  a  table,  every  scrap  of  meat  or  bone  with  a 
particle  of  fat  on  it  should  be  saved  in  a  tin  can  or  basin. 
The  meat  remnants  on  the  plates  may  be  mixed  with  other 
food,  but  they  should  be  rinsed  and  saved,  nevertheless.  It 
is  more  nice  than  wise  to  throw  them  into  the  garbage. 
Keep  these  accumulations  for  a  couple  of  days,  then  put 
them  in  the  oven,  and  in  an  hour  or  two  all  the  grease  will 
be  tried  out.  It  can  then  be  strained,  and  is  purer  and 
more  wholesome  than  the  lard  sold  by  the  average  butcher. 
A  raw  potato  peeled  and  sliced  and  cooked  in  a  quart  of 
drippings  will  clarify  them  very  successfully.  The  fat  that 
rises  on  the  water  in  which  corned  beef  has  been  boiled 
makes  very  nice  cookies.  It  can  be  melted  and  strained 
with  other  drippings  to  make  it  clearer. 

BEEF  BALLS. 

An  inferior  piece  of  beef  will  answer.  Boil  it  tender, 
chop  very  fine  with  an  onion,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a 
bit  of  parsley,  and  add  I  cup  of  bread  crumbs  to  4  of  meat 
and  raw  egg  enough  to  bind  the  mass  together.  Form  into 
balls,  dip  in  flour,  and  fry  brown  in  hot  lard. 


104 

Fricassee.  HASH.  Omelet. 

FRICASSEE  OF  BEEF. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  cooked  beef  and  heat  quickly  in 
some  butter,  already  hot,  in  a  frying-pan.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  parsley,  and  lemon  juice.  Serve  hot,  with  Saratoga 
potatoes. 

BEEF  PATTIES. 

Mince  cold  cooked  beef,  fat  and  lean,  very  fine  ;  season 
with  chopped  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and  gravy.  Half  fill  patty- 
pans with  this  and  then  fill  them  with  mashed  potatoes  ;  put 
a  bit  of  butter  on  each  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

MEAT  PIES. 

Chop  up  cold  roast  beef  or  other  meat.  Heat  it  with  a 
cup  of  water  in  a  spider.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
bit  of  sage,  and  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  flour  mixed  in  a 
little  cold  water.  Pour  this  into  a  deep  pan,  and  make  a 
crust  a  trifle  richer  than  biscuit  dough,  which  spread  over 
the  top,  make  an  opening  in,  and  bake.  Cold  potatoes  may 
be  added  to  the  meat. 

MEAT-POTATO   PIE. 

Chop  fine  any  bits  of  cold  meat,  even  different  kinds. 
Put  it  into  a  deep  pie-plate  an  inch  or  more  in  depth.  Sea- 
son it  well  with  salt,  pepper,  catsup,  or  Chili  sauce,  and  pour 
over  any  gravy  there  may  be.  Cover  it  all  with  a  layer  of 
mashed  potatoes,  and  put  bits  of  butter  over  the  top,  and 
scatter  grated  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  crumbs  lightly  over 
the  whole.  Crease  with  a  knife,  in  squares,  and  bake  in 
the  oven  until  well-browned.  Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

MEAT    OMELET. 

Mince  up  any  cold  pieces  of  meat,  add  a  few  crumbs  of 
bread  or  crackers,  and  enough  beaten  egg  to  bind  them 
together.  Season  well  and  pour  into  a  well-buttered  frying- 
pan.  If  it  is  difficult  to  turn  it  whole,  a  hot  shovel  may  be 
held  over  the  top  until  it  is  browned. 


105 

Ragout.  HASH.  Minced  Veal. 

RAGOUT. 

Take  pieces  of  any  cold  meats,  cut  small,  put  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  water  to  cover.  Put  in  a  minced  onion,  if 
liked,  and  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  sliced.  Heat  up,  and 
when  at  a  boiling  point,  thicken  with  flour.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  A  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  improves  it. 
Mince  the  onion  very  fine,  or  cook  it  alone  before  putting 
into  stew.  Meats  to  be  hashed  up  should  be  heated  through, 
not  boiled. 

CORNED  BEEF  HASH. 

Take  the  clear  pieces  of  cold  corned  beef,  removing  all 
gristle  and  bone.  Chop  fine,  add  twice  the  quantity  of  cold 
chopped  potatoes.  Moisten  with  some  of  the  water  the 
beef  was  cooked  in,  grease  the  spider  with  the  fat  that  rises 
when  cold.  Warm  well  through.  It  may  be  moistened 
with  milk,  if  preferred.  Or,  after  the  meat  and  potatoes  are 
mixed  together,  it  may  be  formed  into  flat  cakes,  and  both 
sides  browned  on  a  flat  griddle  greased  with  butter  or  drip- 
pings. 

VEAL   HASH. 

Mix  a  teaspoon  of  flour  with  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water 
smoothly,  and  stir  into  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Add  J  a 
teaspoon  of  salt,  nearly  as  much  pepper,  and  2  tablespoons 
butter.  Keep  hot.  Chop  the  cold  veal  very  fine  and  add 
to  it  half  as  much  stale  crumbs  of  bread.  Put  into  a  basin 
and  pour  the  gravy  over,  and  let  heat  about  10  minutes. 
Serve. 

DELICIOUS  MINCED  VEAL. 

Chop  cold  roast  veal  ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg, 
and  lemon  peel ;  moisten  with  a  beaten  egg  and  gravy  or 
water.  Put  into  a  buttered  dish,  press  down,  cover,  and  set 
in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  for  an  hour  or  more.  Spread  a 
beaten  yolk  of  egg  on  the  top  and  strew  sifted  bread  crumbs 
over.  Brown  in  the  oven.  Pour  a  little  melted  butter  over 

arid  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 
*i4 


io6 

Wonders.  HASH.  Scrapple. 

MINCED  MUTTON. 

Take  cold  mutton,  chop  fine,  heat  it  in  gravy,  and  add  a 
spoon  of  catsup  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Thicken  with  a  little 
flour  made  smooth  in  water,  and  serve  on  a  platter  sur- 
rounded with  mashed  potatoes. 

WONDERS. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Merritt,  Chicago. 

Take  any  bits  of  cold  meat  and  chop  fine.  Take  half  as 
much  potatoes  as  meat,  and  the  same  quantity  of  bread 
broken  fine  and  moistened  with  hot  water.  Good  table- 
spoon of  flour  made  into  smooth  paste  for  thickening,  2  or  3 
beaten  eggs,  any  cold  gravies  that  may  be  left  over.  Sea- 
son well.  Drop  from  a  spoon  into  a  hot,  well-greased  spi- 
der. Drippings  will  answer. 

PHILADELPHIA  SCRAPPLE. 

Mrs.  C.  S.   Johnston,  Harford,  Penn. 

Take  bits  of  cold  fowl  or  any  kind  of  cold  meat,  or  2  or 
3  kinds  together.  Cut  up  small,  put  in  a  frying-pan  with 
water  to  cover.  Season  well.  When  it  boils,  thicken  with 
corn  meal  stirred  in  carefully  like  mush,  and  about  as  thick. 
Cook  a  short  time,  pour  into  a  dish  to  mould,  slice  off  and 
fry  for  breakfast. 

UNION   HASH. 

Chop  up  cold  meat  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  butter, 
and  a  cup  of  gravy,  if  you  have  it  ;  if  not,  add  a  cup  of 
water  to  a  pint  of  minced  meat.  Put  in  a  baking-dish,  and 
cover  with  mashed  potatoes.  Bake  J  an  hour  in  a  well- 
heated  oven. 

MEAT  DUMPLINGS. 

Take  cold  meat  prepared  as  described  for  meat  pie. 
Make  a  biscuit  dough,  cut  into  as  many  pieces  as  you  want 
dumplings,  roll  each  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and 
as  large  as  a  pint  bowl.  Put  a  small  tablespoon  of  the  meat 


107 

Fish  Cake.  CROQUETTES.  Fish  Croquettes. 

in  the  center,  gather  up  and  pinch  the  edges  together,  set 
close  together  on  a  buttered  plate  and  steam  in  a  closely 
covered  steamer  20  minutes.  Serve  any  gravy  there  may 
be,  in  a  hot  gravy  dish. 

FISH  CAKE. 

Take  remnants  of  any  cold  fish,  pick  from  the  bones. 
Put  the  bones,  fins,  and  heads  in  a  pint  of  water,  with  a 
sliced  onion,  and  stew  for  an  hour.  Chop  the  fish  fine,  mix 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes  and  the  same  of 
bread  crumbs.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley,  salt,  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  make  into  a  cake  with  an  egg.  Cover 
with  beaten  egg  and  crumbs  of  bread,  and  fry  a  light 
brown.  Strain  the  gravy  and  pour  it  over,  and  serve. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  thin  slices  of  lemon. 


CROQUETTES. 


Croquettes  are  fried  in  hot  fat  the  same  as  doughnuts. 
FISH    CROQUETTES. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Stir  together  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  a  tablespoon  each 
of  flour  and  butter.  Add  either  wrater  or  milk,  making  a 
thick  sauce.  This  quantity  is  for  a  pint  of  cold  flakes  of 
fish.  Let  the  sauce  boil  up,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
put  in  the  cold  fish,  and  scald  up,  then  remove  and  stir  into 
it  the  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs.  Rub  a  deep  plate  with  salad 
oil,  and  pour  the  mixture  in  and  let  get  thoroughly  cold. 
Then  make  up  into  cork-shaped  rolls.  Wet  the  hands  to 
prevent  sticking.  Roll  in  sifted  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  again  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat, 
like  doughnuts,  until  a  delicate  brown.  Take  out  of  the  fat 


io8 

Salmon.  CROQUETTES.  Egg. 

with  a  skimmer,  and  lay  on  a  brown  paper  an  instant  to 
absorb  the  fat.  A  teaspoon  of  onion  chopped  fine  and  fried 
in  the  butter  before  the  sauce  is  made  imparts  a  nice  flavor 
to  the  croquettes.  A  perfect  croquette  is  semi-liquid  in  the 
center.  Melted  butter  is  not  so  good  as  oil  for  greasing  the 
dish,  as  it  will  not  prevent  sticking.  The  finer  the  cracker 
dust,  the  more  easily  the  croquettes  are  prepared,  and  the 
nicer  they  will  fry.  They  should  be  rolled  and  sifted. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  Ann  Wallis,  Lewisburg,  Ky. 

One  can  salmon,  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes. 
Make  into  little  cakes,  roll  in  white  of  egg  and  rolled  crack- 
er, and  fry. 

OYSTER    CROQUETTES. 

Mix  a  quart  of  oysters  with  I  cup  of  mashed  potatoes. 
Cut  the  mass  up  fine  with  a  knife.  Add  i  pound  rolled 
crackers.  Season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  add  the  oys- 
ter liquor,  adding  milk  if  more  moisture  is  needed.  Make 
into*  small  rolls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  powdered 
cracker,  and  fry. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Jackson,  Centerville,  Mississippi. 

One  can  of  lobsters.  Add  to  I  pint  of  rolled  crackers  or 
light  bread  crumbs,  a  large  onion  chopped  fine,  I  tablespoon 
butter,  4  hard-boiled  eggs — chopped — i  teaspoon  black  pep- 
per, salt  to  taste.  Make  cakes  like  sausage  meat,  dip  in 
meal  and  fry. 

EGG   CROQUETTES. 

Boil  12  eggs  hard.  Cut  the  yolks  and  whites  in  dice. 
Mix  with  a  white  sauce  and  grated  bread  crumbs  sufficient 
to  shape  with  the  hand,  and  let  get  cold.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  form  into  cakes,  and  roll  in  grated  bread.  Let 
stand  an  hour,  and  fry. 


109 

Chicken.  CROQUETTES.  Green  Corn. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire. 
Fry  in  it  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  onion  and  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  flour.  Add  a  pint  of  milk  or  water  slowly,  to  the 
consistency  of  a  sauce  that  will  cling  to  the  spoon.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  it  |  pound  of  cooked  chicken 
and  £  pound  of  mushrooms  cut  in  small  pieces,  but  not 
chopped.  Let  cook  a  minute,  then  remove  and  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  deep  plate, 
well  rubbed  with  oil.  Pour  a  few  drops  of  oil  on  top  to 
keep  the  chicken  from  hardening.  Let  cool  several  hours 
before  breading  and  frying. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES.    ' 

Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  teaspoons  of  flour  in  a 
saucepan,  cook  until  smooth,  stirring  constantly.  Add  a 
small  onion  minced  fine,  and  a  cup  of  milk.  Season  to 
taste.  When  cold,  add  a  pint  of  chopped  cooked  veal. 
Roll  into  oblong  shape,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry.  If  the  mixture  seems  to  require  it,  add  1 
or  2  eggs  to  bind  it. 

GREEN  CORN   CROQUETTES. 

i  quart  young,  tender,  grated  green  corn. 
I  cup  sifted  flour. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

5  tablespoons  butter. 

2  eggs. 

i  salt  spoon  of  salt ;  same  of  pepper. 

Grate  the  corn  as  fine  as  possible,  and  mix  with  the  flour, 
and  pepper  and  salt.  Warm  the  milk  and  melt  the  butter 
in  it.  Add  the  corn,  stir  hard,  and  let  cool.  Then  stir  the 
eggs  beaten  very  light,  the  whites  added  last.  Work  into 


no 

Potato.  CROQUETTES.  Bread. 

small  oval  balls,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  hot  lard,  or  lard  and 
butter  mixed.     Drain  and  serve  hot. 

POTATO   CROQUETTES. 

Season  cold  mashed  potato  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 
Beat  to  a  cream,  with  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  to 
every  cup  of  potato.  Bind  with  2  beaten  eggs,  and  add 
a  teaspoon  minced  parsley.  Roll  into  oval  balls,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry.  Pile  in  a  pyra- 
mid upon  a  flat  dish,  and  serve. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Take  cold  boiled  rice  ;  allow  a  small  spoon  of  butter  and 
a  beaten  egg  to  each  cup  of  boiled  rice.  Roll  into  oval 
balls,  with  floured  hands.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  sifted 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Good  with 
maple  syrup. 

BREAD  CROQUETTES. 

Chop  stale  bread  very  fine.  Moisten  with  water  only 
enough  to  soften  it.  Add  a  beaten  egg,  and  a  teaspoon  of 
melted  butter  to  each  pint,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  and 
a  bit  of  sage,  if  liked.  Form  into  small  rolls,  and  dip  in 
very  fine  cracker  dust,  or  flour,  and  fry. 


SWEET  HERBS.        CURRY  POWDER.       PREPARED  MUSTARD. 
CAPER  BUTTER.  SOY. 


AUCES,  as  well  as  the  condiments  used  in 
seasoning  food,  while  they  may  not  be 
so  nutritious  in  themselves,  render  many 
dishes  very  palatable,  that  might  other- 
wise be  rejected.  Vinegar  and  salt  are 
considered  beneficial,  because  vinegar  helps 

to   reduce   muscular   fiber  to   a  fluid    state,  and   salt  helps 

to  form  bone  and  muscle. 

Sauces  are  served  with  fish,  game,  poultry,  and  meat. 

A  small  wooden  stick  or  paddle  is  much  better  to  use  in 
making  sauces  and  gravies  than  a  spoon.  It  can  scrape  the 
bottom  of  a  kettle  without  scratching  or  marring. 

Mustard  as  a  condiment  is  held  in  high  favor,  and  can  be 
freely  used  without  injury  to  the  digestive  organs.  It  really 
aids  digestion. 

SWEET  HERBS. 

The  sweet  herbs  in  common  use  are  thyme,  basil,  mint, 
sweet  marjoram,  summer  savory,  and  sage. 

CURRY  POWDER. 

Turmeric  powder,  3  ounces ;  coriander  seed  powder,  4 
ounces  ;- black  pepper,  2  ounces  ;  fenugreek  and  ginger  each 
i  ounce  ;  cayenne  pepper  and  cumin  seed  each  \  ounce. 
Pound  very  fine,  sift,  and  keep  tightly  corked  in  a  bottle. 


112 

Mustard.  SAUCES.  White  Sauc«. 

KENTUCKY  MUSTARD. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Chace,  Mishawaka,  Indiana. 

2  tablespoons  ground  mustard. 

I  tablespoon  sugar. 

I  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

I  teaspoon  salt. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  the  mustard  to  dissolve  it,  then  add 
the  other  ingredients.  Stir  well,  and  then  pour  on  good 
vinegar  till  as  thin  as  syrup. 

CAPER  BUTTER. 

One  tablespoon  chopped  capers,  I  tablespoon  butter,  I 
saltspoon  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Half  cup  butter,  dessertspoon  of  flour  rubbed  well  together. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  with  one  cup  water  or  stock.  Cover 
and  set  in  a  larger  vessel  of  boiling  water.  Keep  moving 
the  saucepan.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When 
thoroughly  mixed,  take  off.  Do  not  let  boil. 

MAITRE  D'  HOTEL  SAUCE. 

Cup  melted  butter,  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  juice  one 
lemon,  pinch  cayenne  and  salt  ;  let  simmer,  but  not  boil. 

TARTAR  SAUCE. 

First  make  a  Mayonnaise  ;  mix  with  it  I  tablespoon  each 
of  chopped  parsley,  capers,  and  gherkins,  and  I  teaspoon 
chopped  onions. 

PLAIN  WHITE  SAUCE,  AND  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour  made  smooth  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire,  and  a  pint  of  water  added  slowly.  If  it 
seems  too  thin,  cook  longer.  By  using  milk  or  cream  it 
becomes  cream  sauce. 


Hollandaise.  SAUCES.  Celery. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

For  each  pint  use  i  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour. 
Mix  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  gradually  add  ij  cups 
boiling  water.  Stir  into  this  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  I  table- 
spoon lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  salad  oil,  and 
mustard  if  liked.  Serve  with  fish. 

EGG  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 
Add  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  plain  white  sauce. 

WHITE  SAUCE  FOR  GAME. 

I  cup  hot  water  in  a  stewpan. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  tablespoons  grated  bread  crumbs. 
Grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 

i  blade  mace. 

Let  cook  slowly  about  5  minutes.  Add  to  this  I  cup 
sweet  cider,  and  2  or  3  lumps  loaf  sugar.  Let  boil  up  and 
serve. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE. 

Make  a  drawn  butter  sauce.  Dip  a  bunch  of  fresh  parsley 
into  boiling  water,  then  mince  it  and  stir  into  the  drawn 
butter. 

SOUR  SAUCE. 

Stir  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  a  teaspoon  of  prepared 
mustard  and  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  mix  well  with  a  cup  of 
hot  vinegar.  If  the  vinegar  is  very  strong,  weaken  it. 
Serve  with  boiled  lobster  or  fish. 

CELERY  SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  FOWLS. 

Cook  in  a  pint  of  water  2  heads  of  celery  cut  small ;   I 
teaspoon  salt.     Rub   together   a   tablespoon   of  flour  with 
same  of  butter,  and  put  into  a  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 
Pour  over  the  celery,  let  come  to  a  boil,  and  serve, 
*i5 


114 

Asparagus.  SAUCES.  Lobster, 

ASPARAGUS  SAUCE. 

Boil  12  tender  heads  of  asparagus  in  a  very  little  salted 
water.  When  done,  drain  and  chop.  Have  ready  a  pint  of 
drawn  butter,  with  2  raw  eggs  beaten  into  it,  add  the  cooked 
asparagus,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  squeezing  in 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  The  butter  must  be  hot,  but  do 
not  cook  after  adding  the  asparagus.  This  accompanies 
boiled  fowls,  stewed  fillet  of  veal,  or  boiled  mutton. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

About  ^  pint  of  button  mushrooms,  or  an  equal  bulk  of 
mushroom  flaps,  wiped  carefully  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Put  into  a  cup  of  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  simmer  very  gently  for 
10  minutes.  Then  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed 
with  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Serve  with  roast  meats. 

ONION  SAUCE. 

Peel  and  boil  4  good-sized  onions  tender.  Drain,  chop 
fine,  add  a  cup  of  milk,  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  a  saltspoon  of 
salt,  pepper  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling,  and  serve. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

Mix  2  tablespoons  chopped  spear  mint  with  ^  cup  of 
vinegar  and  a  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Serve  with  roast  lamb 
or  mutton. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

Pick  the  meat  of  a  hen  lobster  from  the  shell,  cut  in 
small  squares  and  set  aside.  The  spawn  is  under  the  tail. 
Pound  it  smooth  with  J  tablespoon  of  butter.  Then  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Melt  a  fujl  cup  of  butter  ;  add  to  it  a  table- 


Shrimp.  SAUCES.  Tomato  Soy. 

spoon  of  anchovy  sauce  (or  a  teaspoon  of  essence,)  a  pinch  of 
salt,  cayenne,  and  pounded  mace,  and  the  sifted  spawn. 
Mix  well,  add  the  lobster,  heat  till  near  boiling,  but  do  not 
let  boil,  as  the  color  will  be  spoiled.  Serve  with  turbot 
or  salmon. 

SHRIMP  SAUCE. 

Clean  \  pint  of  shrimps  very  carefully.  Mince  and  add 
a  coffee-cup  of  melted  butter,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and,  if 
liked,  a  teaspoon  of  anchovy  sauce.  Let  simmer  5  min- 
utes. Serve  with  fish. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 

After  soaking  2  anchovies  in  cold  water  for  2  hours,  put 
them  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  in  a  stewpan,  and  let  simmer 
until  the  fish  are  dissolved.  Strain  the  water,  add  3  table- 
spoons vinegar  and  a  cup  of  melted  butter.  Let  simmer  15 
minutes  longer.  Serve  with  boiled  fish  or  meat. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE— OF  THE  ESSENCE. 

Stir  2  tablespoons  of  anchovy  essence  into  a  cup  of 
melted  butter.  Season  with  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  mace. 
Let  boil  up  for  I  or  2  minutes. 

CHILI   SAUCE. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Flanders,  Joliet,  111. 

Twenty-four  large  ripe  tomatoes,  7  white  onions,  medium 
size,  2  small  green  peppers — all  chopped  fine;  5  cups  vinegar, 
2  tablespoons  salt,  I  cup  sugar — heat  vinegar  and  sugar,  add 
the  other  ingredients,  boil  I  hour;  seal  up.  Spices  may  be 
added,  if  liked — about  a  tablespoon  each  of  allspice  and  cin- 
namon, less  of  cloves. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SOY. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 

Two  gallons  green  tomatoes  sliced,  12  large  onions  sliced, 
2  quarts  vinegar,  I  quart  sugar,  2  tablespoons  each  of  salt, 


Queen  of  Oude.  SAUCES.  German. 

ground  mustard,  and  black  pepper  ground,  I  tablespoon 
each  of  allspice  and  cloves.  Stew  till  tender,  seal  in  glass 
jars. 

QUEEN  OF  OUDE  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Stewart,  Logan,  Iowa. 

I  peck  green  tomatoes. 
4  onions. 
8  green  peppers. 

I  quart  small  pieces  of  horse  radish. 

Chop  fine,  and  sprinkle  with   I   cup  salt.     Let  stand  over 
night.     Drain  carefully,  and  add 
i  cup  sugar. 

i  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves. 

Cover  with  vinegar,  and  cook  4  or  5  hours  slowly.     Put 

away  in  a  stone  crock.     If  preferred,  take   i   cup  of  grated 

horse  radish  and  add  when  cooking,  instead  of  using  the  cut 

pieces. 

GERMAN  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  Albert  Willson,  Johnson  Junction,  Ky. 

i  gallon  cabbage. 
i  gallon  tomatoes. 

1  quart  onions. 
All  chopped  together. 

3  tablespoons  ground  mustard. 
„          2  tablespoons  ground  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  cloves. 

3  gills  mustard  seed, 
i  gill  salt. 

i  pound  sugar. 
3  quarts  vinegar. 
Boil  together  an  hour  or  two,  stirring  well. 


ARNISHES  in  cookery  are  anything  used 
for  decorating  dishes  of  fish,  game, 
poultry,  meat,  or  salad.  They  may  be 
placed  in  the  form  of  vines  across  or 
around  the  article  on  the  dish,  or  in 
small  clusters  at  either  end.  A  single 
sprig  of  green  is  sometimes  sufficient  ornamentation.  One 
slice  of  lemon  cut  crosswise  will  answer  for  a  mutton 
chop,  or  for  a  couple  of  sardines.  It  should  be  placed  on 
the  top.  A  sprig  of  parsley  put  on  a  small  porter-house 
steak  about  midway  is  very  attractive,  and  almost  an  appe- 
tizer. 

The    articles    most    frequently   used  as  garnishes   are  as 
follow : 

Parsley  and  celery  tops  for  cold  meat,  poultry,   and   fish, 
and  for  chops,  cutlets,  steaks,  and  salads. 

Parsley  is  used  for  roasts  as  well  as  for  the  dishes  men- 
tioned above. 

Parsley  or  curled  lettuce  for  scalloped  oysters. 
Lettuce,  especially  curled,  can  be  used  as  effectively  as 
parsley. 

Lemon  is  almost  a  universal  garnish.     The  same  may  be 
said  of  parsley. 

Slices  of  lemon,  cut  very  thin,  for  sardines,  raw  oysters, 
boiled  fowl,  turkey,  fish,  roast  veal,  steaks,  salads. 

Sheep  sorrel  may  be  used  with  or  in  place  of  lemon,  and 
is  exceedingly  pretty. 


Water-Cress.  GARNISHES.  Smilax. 

Water-cresses  may  be  used  for  mock  duck. 

Garden-fennel  for  mackerel  or  salmon. 

Capers  for  salads. 

Currant  jelly  for  game,  cold  tongue,  etc. 

Gherkins,  or  large  pickles  cut  crosswise,  for  cold  corned 
beef  sliced. 

Cold  hard-boiled  eggs — sliced — for  cold  boiled  ham  cut  in 
thin  slices. 

Link  sausages  for  roast  turkey,  put  around  the  edge  of 
the  platter. 

Anchovies  may  be  used  as  a  garnish  for  cold  meats. 

Different-colored  vegetables  may  be  sliced  or  cut  in  dice, 
and  placed  around  almost  any  dish  of  meat  or  fish. 

Boiled  carrot  sliced,  for  boiled  beef. 

Beets,  pickled  and  sliced,  for  cold  meat,  boiled  beef,  salt 
fish. 

Potato  croquettes,  or  Saratoga  potatoes,  may  be  used  with 
a  roast  or  sirloin  of  beef. 

Boiled  rice  is  used  on  the  platter  around  a  boiled  leg  of 
mutton. 

Boiled  rice  colored  with  cochineal  is  a  pretty  garnish. 

Boiled  rice  in  balls,  dotted  with  bright  jelly,  has  a  pretty 
effect  around  a  plate  of  cold  meat. 

Anchovies  on  toast  furnish  a  nice  relish. 

Those  who  are  fortunate  enough  to  have  a  garden,  may 
always  find  something  green  for  a  garnish  or  decoration. 

Smilax  is  a  pretty  table  decoration.  It  is  placed  entirely 
around  the  edge  of  the  table  cloth,  before  raw  oysters  are 
served,  after  which  it  is  removed.  Wreathed  over  and 
about  a  dish  of  fruit,  it  is  extremely  pleasing  to  the  eye. 


RESSING  for  salads  may  be  prepared  and 
bottled  for  future  use.  Salads  should  be 
eaten  the  day  they  are  prepared.  This 
applies  particularly  to  vegetable  salads. 
By  standing,  they  not  only  lose  their 
freshness,  but  their  pretty  and  crisp  ap- 
pearance, which  is  so  much  in  a  salad.  Chicken  salad 
may  be  kept  several  days. 

Celery,  cabbage,  or  lettuce  may  be  crisped  by  putting  into 
ice-cold  water  for  a  couple  of  hours. 

Celery  stalks  may  be  fringed  by  cutting  them  into  finger 
lengths  and  drawing  half  of  the  length  through  several 
coarse  needles  that  are  stuck  in  a  cork.  When  the  fibers 
are  pretty  well  separated,  lay  the  celery  in  a  cool  place. 
This  is  also  very  pretty  for  a  garnish. 

In  all  salads  where  butter  is  called  for,  salad  oil  may  be 
used  instead,  bearing  in  mind  to  use  about  half  the  quantity. 
White  pepper    is    considered    better   for   table    use    than 
black.     In  salads  and  any  delicate  cookery,  it  is  to  be  pre- 
ferred. 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING, 

FOR  ANY  VEGETABLE  SALAD. 

One  tablespoon  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  salad  oil,  I  table- 
spoon salt,  j  saltspoon  pepper.  Stir  together.  Less  oil  is 
preferred  by  many. 

MAYONNAISE  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

For  i  pint,  use  the  yolk  of  I  egg,  a  saltspoon  or  more  ol 
salt,  half  of  pepper,  a  dust  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  level  tea- 


I2O 

Lettuce  Dressing.  SALADS.  Summer  Salad. 


spoon  of  dry  mustard,  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 
Mix  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  salad  oil  and  vinegar  (or 
lemon  juice),  a  very  few  drops  at  a  time,  first  of  one  then  of 
the  other,  stirring  constantly  until  3  gills  of  oil  and  4  table- 
spoons of  the  lemon  or  vinegar  have  been  added.  Make  in 
a  cool  place.  If  it  curdles,  stir  in  half  a  teaspoon  of  the 
vinegar  or  lemon  alone.  Mix  well,  and  if  that  does  not 
bring  it  right,  set  it  in  the  ice-box  for  a  while.  If  it  still 
curdles,  take  another  yolk  and  begin  over  again,  and  gradu- 
ally stir  in  the  curdled  sauce,  and  it  will  come  out  all  right. 
If  a  white  mayonnaise  is  desired,  use  the  white  of  the  egg. 
It  will  keep  a  long  time.  Set  on  ice  a  short  time  before 
using. 

LETTUCE  DRESSING. 

Mrs.  G.  G.  Bennett,  Dead  wood,  Dakota. 

Yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  tablespoons  sweet  cream, 
teaspoon  pepper,  sugar,  and  mustard,  \  teaspoon  salt.  Rub 
together,  let  stand  5  minutes,  add  vinegar,  and  pour  over 
lettuce  cold.  Garnish  with  the  whites  of  eggs. 

LETTUCE   SALAD. 

Pick  and  wash  the  lettuce,  place  it  in  the  salad  dish,  slice 
3  or  4  hard-boiled  eggs  over  the  top.  Then  take  a 
cup  of  rich  cream,  either  sweet  or  sour,  I  cup  vinegar,  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  a  saltspoon  of  salt.  Mix  and  pour  over. 

SUMMER  SALAD. 

3  heads  of  lettuce. 

10  small  radishes. 

i  cucumber  sliced. 

A  bunch  of  mustard  and  cress. 

Unless  the  ingredients  are  very  tresh,  lay  them  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour  or  two.  Drain  them  carefully  in  a  cloth, 
cut  the  lettuce  in  small  pieces,  and  slice  the  radishes  and 
cucumber  thinly.  Arrange  them  in  a  salad  bowl  with  the 
mustard  and  cress  on  the  top.  Garnish  with  slices  of  hard- 


121 

Slaw  with  Celery.  SALADS.  Slaw  with  Dressing 

boiled  eggs,  and  pour  French  salad  dressing  under,  not  over 
it.  Do  not  add  the  dressing  until  just  before  the  salad  is 
wanted. 

WINTER  SALAD. 

Take  the  quantity  desired  of  endive,  mustard,  cress,  and 
celery.  Clean  thoroughly,  dry  in  a  cloth,  and  put  in  a  salad 
bowl.  Garnish  with  rings  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  boiled 
beet.  Pour  any  salad  dressing  into  the  dish,  but  not  over 
the  salad 

COLD  SLAW  WITH  CELERY. 

Shave  a  hard  head  of  cabbage  very  fine  and  add  a  stalk 
of  celery  cut  fine,  or,  in  the  absence  of  celery,  use  a  tea- 
spoon of  celery  seed.  Dress  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cold 
vinegar.  » 

COLD  SLAW  WITH  COLD  DRESSING. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Roe,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

Shred  cabbage  very  fine,  or  chop  fine  in  a  chopping  bowl. 
Mix  together 

i  teaspoon  black  pepper. 

1  teaspoon  mustard. 

2  tablespoons  white  sugar. 
J  cup  sour  cream. 

£  cup  vinegar. 
J  teaspoon  salt. 
More  sugar  if  your  taste  requires.     Pour  over  cold. 

COLD  SLAW  WITH  COOKED  DRESSING. 

Mrs.  L.  S.  Hodge,  Chicago. 

I  teacup  vinegar. 
I  tablespoon  butter. 

1  teaspoon  flour. 

2  small  tablespoons  sugar. 
Pepper  and  salt. 

Cook,  pour   over   chopped    or  sliced  cabbage  while  hot. 

Cover  closely,  and  eat  cold. 
*i6 


122 

Water-Cress.  SALADS.  Orange  Salad. 


HOT  SLAW. 

Mrs.  M.  A.   Smith,  Chicago. 

Half  pint  vinegar,  butter  size  of  egg,  I  egg,  2  teaspoons 
sugar,  i  each  mustard  and  salt  ;  pepper.  Boil  vinegar,  take 
from  stove  and  stir  all  ingredients  together  quickly,  and 
pour  over  the  cabbage.  Cover  closely,  and  serve  in  5  or  10 
minutes. 

WATER-CRESSES. 

Pick  out  the  discolored  leaves,  wash  the  clusters  carefully, 
and  put  them  in  a  salad  dish.  Lay  over  them  slices  of 
hard-boiled  egg.  Pour  a  salad  dressing  over,  before  the  egg 
is  laid  on. 

ORANGE    SALAD. 

For  8  or  10  persons,  peek  and  slice  in  round  slices  6 
oranges.  Grate  the  rind  of  one,  squeeze  the  juice  from 
i  lemon,  mix  together  the  juice  of  lemon,  the  rind  of 
orange,  and  3  tablespoons  salad  oil,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Pour  over  the  sliced  oranges.  A  very  nice  accom- 
paniment to  roast  duck  or  game.  Its  place  is  with  game. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Stair,  Zionsville,  Incl. 

Pare  and  boil  6  good-sized  potatoes.  Mash  well.  Take 
up  in  a  dish,  stir  well  with  a  fork  in  order  to  have  them  lay 
light  in  the  dish.  A  half  hour  before  serving,  slice  a  large 
onion  very  thin  and  place  the  slices  here  and  there 
through  the  potato.  For  the  dressing  take  : 

3  teaspoons  melted  butter. 

3  teaspoons  cream. 

J  teaspoon  salt. 

^  teaspoon  white  pepper  (ground). 

^  cup  vinegar. 

When  thoroughly  cooked,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs.  Let 
stand  until  cool  and  then  pour  over  the  potato,  at  which 
time  the  onions  may  be  taken  out  of  the  potato,  if  desired. 
Very  convenient  when  you  have  mashed  potatoes  left  over, 


123 

Potato.  SALADS.  Chicken. 

GERMAN  POTATO  SALAD. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Hendrickson,  Chicago. 

Wash  and  boil  4  large  potatoes.  While  hot,  peel  and 
slice  thin  with  I  small,  raw  onion.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  spider,  let  it  brown, 
pour  in  |  of  a  cup  of  vinegar.  When  it  boils  up,  pour  it 
over  the  salad.  Add  2  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs. 

HOT  EGG   SALAD. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

A  tablespoon  salad  oil  made  hot.  Break  3  eggs  into  it, 
and  stir  a  little.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  out  as 
soon  as  it  hardens  a  trifle,  sprinkle  over  the  top  a  table- 
spoon chopped  cucumber,  same  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  and  3  tablespoons  salad  oil. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Mrs.  E.  K.  Owens,  Minerva,  Kentucky. 

This  recipe  will  make  nearly  a  gallon  of  salad  and  will 
keep  for  days,  and  even  weeks,  in  cool  weather. 

I  large  chicken,  boiled  tender  and  chopped. 

12  eggs,  hard-boiled. 

I  cup  salad  oil  or  melted  butter. 

6  stuffed  pickled  peppers,  chopped. 

3  cups  chopped  celery. 

1  teaspoon  ground  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  black  mustard,  ground. 
I  cup  good  vinegar. 

Rub  the  yolks  with  the  oil.  If  the  chicken  is  fat,  the  oil 
taken  from  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled  is  much 
better  than  salad  oil.  Chop  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  all 
the  ingredients  in  a  tray  and  work  with  the  hands,  until 
thoroughly  incorporated.  If  celery  cannot  be  procured,  use 
white  tender  cabbage,  and  get  celery  seed  and  put  into  vin- 
egar over  night  and  use  that  vinegar  for  the  salad.  If 
pickled  peppers  cannot  be  had,  use  other  pickles  and  some 
pepper  sauce. 


124 

Salmon.  SALADS.  Oyster. 

Chicken    Sfilad. 

Mrs.    M.   A.   Smith,  Chicago. 

I  chicken  weighing  about  2\  pounds. 

I  small  cup  chopped  celery. 

4  hard-boiled  eggs. 

I  tablespoon  olive  oil  or  melted  butter. 

i  teaspoon  prepared  mustard. 

I  teaspoon  salt. 

i  teaspoon  pepper. 

\  cup  vinegar. 

Boil  the  chicken  tender.  Pick  in  small  pieces,  mix  with 
the  celery.  Chop  the  eggs,  add  to  the  other  ingredients  and 
pour  over. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

Miss  Bettie  A.  Hill,  Maysville,  Ky. 

I  can  salmon,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

I  very  small  head  of  hard  cabbage,  chopped  fine. 

1  dozen  small  cucumber  pickles,  chopped. 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped. 

Mix  the  ingredients  well  together,  and  pour  over  i  pint 
vinegar  after  heating  it  to  scalding  and  seasoning  it  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  mustard  to  suit  the  taste. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Smith. 

Chop  lobster  up  fine.  Chop  fine  twice  the  quantity  of  let- 
tuce that  vou  have  of  lobster,  mix,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
mustard,  and  vinegar.  If  lettuce  is  not  to  be  had,  use  fine 
white  cabbage. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

Mrs.    M.  M.  Jones,  Nashville,  Tenn. 

To  I  large  can  of  cove  oysters,  take  \  tin  cup  each  of  vine- 
gar, butter,  and  powdered  crackers,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  i  tea- 
spoon of  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  add  the  butter  and  oyster  liquor  and  then  the 
crackers.  Place  over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  until 
almost  done,  then  add  the  vinegar  and  mustard.  When  it 


125 

Salmagundi.  SALADS.  Camp  Relish. 

thickens,    pour   it   over   the    oysters.     Garnish   with   hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  parsley. 

SALMAGUNDI. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Dress  this  salad  on  a  standing  salad  dish  or  a  fruit  dish. 
Use  chopped  veal  or  chicken,  hard-boiled  eggs,  white  and 
yolk  chopped  separately,  sardines  or  anchovies,  tongue, 
pickled  beets  or  red  cabbage,  chopped  pickles  or  capers,  and 
parsley  or  water-cresses.  Prepare  all  of  these  separately, 
and  arrange  them  in  little  rows,  placing  the  colors  so  they 
will  harmonize.  Dress  with  plain  French  salad  dressing, 
using  3  times  as  much  oil  as  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  If  sar- 
dines are  used,  get  the  boneless  sardines  at  a  trifling  excess 
of  cost.  Grated  orange  or  lemon  rinds  are  nice  additions. 
Salmagundi  is  specially  adapted  for  night  suppers. 

RUSSIAN  SALAD. 

Take  at  least  three  colors  of  vegetables,  beet,  carrot,  and 
turnip.  Cut  the  carrot  and  turnip  in  slices  over  an  inch 
thick,  then  take  an  apple-corer  or  a  smaller  cylinder,  and 
cut  through  the  slices  as  many  pieces  as  can  be  gotten. 
When  enough  are  cut,  boil  each  kind  separately  in  a  little 
vessel,  putting  over  in  boiling  salted  water.  When  just  ten- 
der, drain  and  lay  in  cold  water.  Beets  are  not  to  be 
soaked  in  cold  water,  but  boiled  whole  and  cut  up  when 
ready  to  serve  in  the  salad.  Lay  the  colors  around  on  a 
small  salad  platter,  rather  than  a  h  ;h  salad  dish,  in  little 
groups,  and  pour  over  a  plain  French  salad  dressing. 

A  CAMP  RELISH. 

Take  a  can  of  mackerel  or  a  cooked  salt  mackerel,  chop 
with  raw  onion  and  pickles,  and  pour  vinegar  over. 

TO   KEEP  HORSE-RADISH. 

Grate  it  during  the  season,  put  into  bottles,  and  fill  up 
with  strong  vinegar.  Cork  tight  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 


126 

Grape.  CATSUPS.  Pepp.r. 

CATSUPS. 

GRAPE   CATSUP. 

Four  pounds  of  grapes.  Stew  until  soft.  Put  through  a 
colander.  Add 

3  pounds  sugar.  2  tablespoons  cloves. 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon,     i  cup  vinegar. 
Let  simmer  15  minutes.     Seal  up. 

CURRANT  CATSUP.  , 

5  pounds  currants,  crushed. 
3  pounds  light  brown  sugar. 

1  pint  good  vinegar. 

2  tablespoons  ground  cinnamon 

I  tablespoon  each  ground  cloves  and  allspice. 
\  teaspoon  salt. 
i  teaspoon  black  pepper. 
Boil  fast  i  hour,  cool,  and  bottle  tight. 

GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP. 

Pass  through  a  colander  4  quarts  stewed  berries.  To  the 
pulp  add  \\  pints  vinegar,  I  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  cin- 
namon, and  allspice,  and  3  pounds  sugar.  Stir  10  or  15  min- 
utes. Common  red  plums  are  nice  this  way. 

GREEN  CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Take  large  green  cucumbers,  peel  them,  put  in  cold  water 
for  an  hour  or  two,  then  grate  on  a  coarse  grater  into  a 
sieve.  When  the  pulp  has  drained  well,  put  it  into  bottles 
or  jars  f  full,  fill  up  with  vinegar,  and  seal.  If  the  pulp  is 
not  drained,  it  will  weaken  the  vinegar  so  it  will  not  keep. 

PEPPER  CATSUP. 

Fifty  large,  red,  bell  peppers,  seed  and  all.  Add  I  pint 
vinegar.  Boil  till  you  can  put  it  through  a  sieve.  Add 
another  pint  of  vinegar,  2  spoons  of  sugar,  I  teaspoon  each 
of  cloves,  mace,  spice,  and  salt  ;  onion,  if  liked.  The  spic«s 
may  be  omitted.  Boil  all  together  until  thick. 


127 

Tomato.  CATSUPS,  Mushroom 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Mrs.   Monroe  Heath,  Chicago. 

Select  good  ripe  tomatoes.  Scald  and  strain  through  a 
coarse  sieve,  to  remove  seeds  and  skins  ;  then  add  to  each 
gallon,  when  cold,  3  tablespoons  of  salt,  2  of  ground  mus- 
tard, I  of  black  pepper,  J  of  cayenne  pepper,  I  of  ground  all- 
spice, J  of  cloves,  i  pint  of  cider  or  white  wine  vinegar. 
Simmer  slowly  4  hours.  Bottle  and  cork  tight. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Mrs.  L.  S.  Hodge. 

One  bushel  ripe  tomatoes,  boil  until  soft,  and  strain 
through  a  sieve.  Add  2  quarts  vinegar,  I  cup  salt,  I  ounce 
cayenne  pepper,  5  heads  garlic,  skinned  and  parted,  2  ounces 
whole  cloves,  4  ounces  whole  allspice,  and  3  teaspoons  whole 
black  pepper.  Mix  and  boil  3  hours.  Bottle  without  strain- 
ing. The  tomatoes  will  keep  their  own  color  if  the  spices 
are  put  in  whole. 

GREEN  TOMATO  CATSUP. 

i  peck  green  tomatoes. 

6  red  peppers,  or 

I  teaspoon  cayenne. 

4  tablespoons  salt. 

4  tablespoons  black  pepper. 

I  tablespoon  mustard. 

I  tablespoon  ground  cloves. 

1  tablespoon  allspice. 

2  quarts  good  vinegar. 

Cook  the  tomatoes  and  peppers  in  vinegar  till  soft.  Strain, 
add  spices,  and  boil  slowly  5  hours.  Let  cool,  put  in  bot- 
tles, and  seal. 

MUSHROOM  CATSUP. 

Allow  a  pint  of  salt  to  a  peck  of  fresh  mushrooms. 
Sprinkle  the  salt  over  them  in  layers  and  let  stand  for  12 
hours.  Mash  fine  and  put  through  a  sieve'.  To  each  quart 
add  a  tablespoon  of  whole  peppercorns.  Boil  closely  cov- 
ered for  about  3  hours.  The  better  way  is  to  put  into  a 


128 

Spiced  Currants.  CATSUPS.  Spiced  Peaches. 

covered  jar  and  set  it  into  a  vessel  of  boiling  water.  Then 
turn  into  a  stewpan  and  let  simmer  half  an  hour.  Pour  into 
a  jug  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  until  the  following  day. 
Then  pour  into  another  jug.  Do  not  pour  out  the  sediment. 
Cork  and  seal.  If  allspice  and  mace  are  liked,  the  propor- 
tion is  J  ounce  of  spice  and  2  blades  of  mace. 

WALNUT  CATSUP. 

One  hundred  young,  tender  walnuts.  Prick  and  put  into 
a  jar  with  water  to  cover,  and  a  cup  of  salt.  Stir  twice  a 
day  for  2  weeks.  Drain  the  liquor  into,  a  kettle.  Cover  the 
walnuts  with  boiling  vinegar,  mash  to  a  pulp,  and  put 
through  a  colander  into  the  kettle.  For  every  quart  of  this 
take  2  ounces  each  of  white  pepper  and  ginger,  I  each  of 
cloves  and  grated  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  small 
onion  minced  fine,  and  a  teaspoon  of  celery  seed  tied  in 
muslin.  Boil  altogether  for  i  hour.  Bottle  when  cold. 

SPICED   CURRANTS. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Van  Bergen,  Oak  Park,  111. 

5  pounds  currants. 

3  pounds  B  sugar. 
i  pint  vinegar. 

I  tablespoon  each  salt,  cloves,  allspice,  and  cinnamon. 
Boil  the  sugar,  spices,  and  vinegar  together   10  minutes. 
Add  the  currants,  crushed,  and  boil  hard  20  minutes. 

SPICED   PEACHES. 

i  peck  peaches.  2  quarts  vinegar. 

4  pounds  sugar.  3  nutmegs. 

i  tablespoon  each  cloves  and  cinnamon. 
Pare  the  peaches  and  place  in  layers  in   a  j»r  with   the 
spices.     Boil  sugar  and  vinegar  together  and  pour  over,   3 
days  in  succession,  and  on  the  fourth  day  boil  all  together 
20  minutes. 


,EGETABLES  entirely  fresh  will  cook  quick- 
er than  those  that  have  stood  for  some 
time.  Most  vegetables  are  better  steamed 
than  boiled.  It  is  conceded  that  vegeta- 
bles cook  more  easily  in  soft  water  than 
in  hard.  When  put  over  to  cook,  unless 
otherwise  directed,  put  into  boiling  water,  and  keep  it 
boiling,  else,  by  stopping,  the  lowered  temperature  will 
soften  them  and  detract  from  their  color. 

After  washing  vegetables,  lay  them  in  cold  water  till  time 
to  put  over  to  cook. 

It  is  particularly  necessary  to  put  cabbage  or  cauliflower 
into  cold  water  half  an  hour  before  cooking.  This  will 
draw  out  all  insects  that  may  be  imbedded  in  the  leaves, 
and  make  them  crisp  and  nicer  every  way. 

Put  all  vegetables  into  boiling  water  unless  otherwise 
directed. 

A  pinch  of  salt,  pepper,  or  spice,  means  about  J  a  salt- 
spoon. 

POTATOES  COOKED  WITHOUT  WATER. 
When  potatoes  are  first  washed,  they  may  be  cooked 
without  any  water,  by  putting  them  into  a  closely-covered 
stewpan.  The  cover  must  fit  perfectly,  and  the  vessel  must 
set  flat  on  the  stove.  I  have  cooked  them  that  way  many 
times.  Set  the  stewpan  on  top  of  the  stove,  shake  occasion- 
ally, but  do  not  lift  the  cover  under  half  an  hour.  Try  it. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

Peel,  cut  in  two,  and  cook  tender  ;  drain ;  mash  fine  with 
*i7 


130 

Quirled  Potatoes  VEGETABLES.  Potatoes  a  !a  Creme. 


a  large  fork,  or,  what  is  still  better,  the  Victor  vegetable 
masher.  The  latter  renders  them  extremely  mealy.  Sea- 
son with  butter  and  salt.  Pour  in  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk 
for  a  family  of  half  a  dozen  persons.  Beat  in  thoroughly 
with  a  wooden  spoon  ;  keep  beating  till  your  potatoes  are  a 
foamy  white.  Take  up  in  a  tureen.  Dash  a  little  pepper 
on  in  spots,  if  liked.  Serve  hot,  with  any  kind  of  meats 
used  at  dinner. 

QUIRLED    POTATOES. 

Peel,  boil,  season,  and  mash  potatoes,  then  put  through  a 
colander  into  the  dish  in  which  you  wish  to  serve.  Brown 
in  the  oven. 

POTATO  PUDDING. 

Peel  6  good-sized  potatoes,  place  in  a  chopping  bowl,  scat- 
ter over  them  flour  enough  to  fill  a  tea-cup,  add  sail,  pepper, 
and  butter  to  taste,  chop  fine  and  mix  well.  Grease  a  deep 
pie-tin,  spread  the  mixture  in  it,  and  cover  with  cream  ; 
bake  slowly  |  of  an  hour  or  less. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  into  cold  water.  Drain  well,  and  dry 
in  a  towel.  Fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  boiling  lard.  Salt  as 
you  take  them  out,  and  lay  them  on  coarse  brown  paper  for 
a  short  time.  They  are  very  nice  cold  for  lunch,  or  to  take 
to  picnics. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

If  the  potatoes  are  wiped  dry,  they  will  bake  much  sooner 
than  if  put  into  the  oven  wet  from  washing  them. 

POTATOES  A  LA  CREME. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  small  hand- 
ful of  minced  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  up 
well  until  hot,  add  a  small  tea-cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 
thicken  with  2  teaspoons  of  flour,  and  stir  until  it  boils. 
Chop  some  cold  boiled  potatoes,  put  into  the  mixture,  and 
boil  up  once  before  serving. 


Boiled  Potatoes.  VEGETABLES.  Scalloped  Potatoes. 


BOILED  POTATOES. 

If  they  are  to  be  served  whole,  wash  well  (it  is  easier  to 
wash  with  a  cloth),  cut  an  end  off,  or  a  narrow  strip  entirely 
around.  This  makes  them  meaiy.  When  done,  pour  off 
the  water  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  with  a  towel  laid 
over  them. 

POTATO  PUFFS. 

Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  with  2  spoons  melted  butter, 
beaten  until  creamy.  Then  add  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  a 
cup  of  cream  or  milk,  a  little  salt  ;  beat.  well.  Pour  into  a 
baking-dish,  spread  butter  over  the  top  and  bake  quickly  a 
delicate  brown. 

POTATO   BALLS. 

Take  the  remains  of  mashed  potatoes  ;  make  into  flat 
balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  drippings. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

Boil,  peel,  and  slice  6  potatoes.  Put  a  sliced  onion  into  a 
hot  buttered  frying-pan.  When  a  little  brown,  put  in  the 
potatoes.  Season,  and  when  a  golden  brown,  sprinkle  over 
them  a  tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  A  combination  of  onion 
and  parsley  always  means  Lyonnaise. 

PARISIAN  POTATOES. 

Pare  and  cut  raw  potatoes  in  balls  like  walnuts.  Boil 
them  in  salted  water  till  tender.  Drain  and  lay  them  on  a 
towel  to  dry  for  a  moment,  and  then  brown  in  hot  lard,  the 
same  as  doughnuts.  It  will  take  but  a  very  short  time. 
Take  out,  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  and  serve  on  a  platter 
with  broiled  beefsteak. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Pare  the  potatoes,  cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with 
bread  crumbs  ;  then  add  a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes,  bits  of 
butter,  salt,  arid  pepper  ;  fill  the  dish  with  alternate  layers  ; 
wet  the  whole  with  milk  and  bake  for  i|  hours. 


132 

Potato  Mangle.  VEGETABLES,  Potato  Dumplings. 


POTATO  MANGLE. 

Mrs.    O.    S.    Matteson,    Chicago, 

Pare  and  boil  6  large  potatoes.  Boil  6  eggs  hard.  Let 
cool  and  remove  the  shells.  Chop  eggs  and  potatoes 
together  coarsely.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  either 
melted  butter  or  cream.  Serve  for  lunch  or  tea. 

POTATO   ROLLS. 

Mrs.  O.  S.  Matteson. 

Take  a  pint  of  mashed  potatoes,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  Yolk  of  I  egg.  Make  into  flat 
cakes,  put  in  a  baking-pan,  brush  the  top  with  white  of  egg, 
and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

POTATO  PATTIES. 

Miss  Emma  Harvey,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

Peel  6  medium-sized  potatoes,  wash  and  grate  on  a  coarse 
grater.  Add  2  eggs,  I  teaspoon  quick  yeast  (or  baking 
powder),  ^  teaspoon  of  salt.  I  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour.  Mix 
well,  and  drop  by  spoonsful  into  smoking  hot  lard.  Fry 
brown  and  crisp  like  doughnuts. 

GERMAN  POTATO   DUMPLINGS. 

Fred  Dresel,  Maysville,  Ky. 

10  cold  boiled  potatoes. 

20  raw  potatoes,  medium  size. 

3  eggs. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

2  teaspoons  salt. 

3  slices  of  bread,  fried  in  dice. 

Grate  the  raw  potatoes,  drain  off  all  the  water,  and  squeeze 
in  a  cloth.  Add  the  cold  potatoes,  also  grated,  and  put  with 
the  other  ingredients.  Form  into  balls  the  size  of  a  goose- 
egg,  and  put  into  boiling  water.  Boil  half  an  hour  or  until 
they  rise  to  the  top.  Serve  with  meat  gravy,  butter,  or 
sour  sauce  made  as  follows  :  Cut  a  large  onion  in  small 
pieces  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  add  2\  cups  water,  J  cup 


133 

Potato  Cakes.  VEGETABLES.  Yams. 


vinegar,  and  thicken  with  2  scant  tablespoons  of  flour  wet 
with  cold  water,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

POTATO  CAKES. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Hill,  Maysville,  Ky. 

i  quart  grated  raw  potatoes,  measured  after  grating. 
4  eggs,  we'll  beaten. 
i  tablespoon  flour  ;  pinch  of  salt. 
I  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Fry  in  a  skillet  in  hot  lard,  in  flat  cakes,  turning  like 
batter-cakes.  Serve  hot.  Leave  the  water  in  the  potatoes 
after  grating. 

SLICED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Miss  Ida  Jones,  Nashville,  Tenn. 

Boil  the  potatoes,  then  peel  and  cut  in  half  inch  slices. 
Put  a  layer  in  a  pie-tin,  dredge  with  J  teaspoon  of  flour,  2 
teaspoons  sugar,  small  lumps  of  butter,  add  ^  cup  water,  and 
brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  hot. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Parboil  and  cut  in  half  inch  slices.  Sprinkle  with  pepper, 
salt,  and,  if  liked,  add  a  little  sugar.  Fry  with  a  slice  of  salt 
pork.  Serve  hot. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Parboil  or  steam  until  nearly  done.  Then  put  into  a 
dripping-pan  with  a  roast  of  either  beef  or  pork,  and  finish 
cooking. 

YAMS. 

Steam  until  tender,  peel,  and  slice,  and  put  into  a  but- 
tered pudding-dish  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  bits 
of  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Pour  a  cup  of  cream 
or  milk  over  the  whole,  and  bake  brown  in  the  oven. 

BAKED   TOMATOES. 

Select  large  ripe  ones.  Make  a  hole  in  the  center  and 
stuff  with  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  with  butter,  salt,  and  pep- 
per. Place  in  a  deep  pan  with  a  cup  of  water,  and  bake. 


134 

Fried  Ripe  Tomatoes.  VEGETABLES.  Stewed  Green  Tomatoes. 


FRIED  RIPS  TOMATOES. 

Mrs?   May   F.    Johnston,    Ne\v  York  City. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  thin  and  clip  lightly  in  cracker  dust. 
Fry  in  butter  until  a  rich  brown,  then  remove  to  a  platter. 
Make  a  gravy  by  adding  milk  to  the  butter  in  which  the 
tomatoes  were  fried,  thickened  with  a  very  little  flour,  and 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 

FRIED   TOMATOES   AND  ONIONS. 

Slice  onions  and  green  tomatoes  thin,  and  fry  in  drippings 
the  same  as  you  would  fry  onions  alone.  Season  with,  salt 
and  pepper. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  nice,  smooth,  ripe  tomatoes.  Place  in  a 
baking-dish  a  layer  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  then  a  layer  of 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  with  small  lumps  of  butter. 
Repeat  till  the  dish  is  full  ;  bake  about  an  hour  ;  onion  may 
be  added,  if  liked.  Green  tomatoes  similarly  scalloped  are 
said  to  be  even  better  than  ripe  ones. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Scald  and  skin  the  desired  number,  and  place  in  a  stew- 
pan  without  water  ;  let  them  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Add 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter.  Grate  a  few 
bits  of  stale  bread  over  all  ;  boil  up  once,  and  serve  very 
hot.  A  nice  variation  in  stewed  tomatoes  is  to  put  into  the 
stewpan  2  tablespoons  raw  rice  to  a  quart  of  tomatoes  when 
first  put  over  to  cook.  Stew  tender  and  season  palatably, 

STEWED   GREEN  TOMATOES. 

Mrs.  Charles  Knight,  Stockport,  N.  Y. 

Cut  the  ends  off,  slice  thin,  and  stew  for  half  an  hour. 
Season  palatably  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  an  egg  with 
some  grated  bread  crumbs,  allowing  about  half  a  cup  to  a 
quart  of  tomatoes,  stir  in  at  the  last.  Add  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  and  serve  hot. 


135 

<Corn  Pudding.  VEGETABLES.  Stewed  Corn. 


GREEN  CORN  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Cliff  Sage. 
I  quart  grated  corn. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper. 

Bake  in  a  pudding-dish. 

GREEN  CORN  PUDDING— SWEET. 

Twelve  ears  of  green  corn  cut  off  cob  ;  ij  pints  of  milk, 
4  beaten  eggs,  I  cup  sugar.  Bake  3  hours. 

GREEN  CORN  PATTIES. 

Miss  Emma  Harvey,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

4  large  ears  of  corn  grated. 

2  eggs. 

I  cup  milk. 

ij  cups  flour  ;  pinch  of  salt. 
I  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  well  together,  and  fry  in  a  skillet  by  spoonsful  in 
boiling  hot  lard. 

CORN   PORRIDGE. 

Take  young  tender  corn  and  cut  from  the  cob.  To  a 
quart  of  milk  allow  2\  cups  corn.  Put  the  milk  and  corn 
into  a  double  boiler  (or  a  tin  bucket  set  in  a  kettle  of  boil- 
ing water),  and  cook  until  perfectly  tender.  Then  add  bits 
of  butter  dredged  with  flour,  and  cook  about  5  minutes 
longer.  Stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  let  boil  up,  and 
serve  hot.  Add  more  butter,  if  desired,  and  sugar  and  nut- 
meg if  liked. 

STEWED    CORN. 

Cut  six  ears  of  sweet  corn  from  the  cob.  Fry  a  slice  or 
two  of  bacon  until  the  grease  is  all  fried  out.  Remove,  put 
the  corn  in  the  frying-pan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 
cook  30  minutes.  Stir  it  often  and  watch  that  it  does  not 
burn.  Before  serving,  add  half  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and 


136 

To  Can  Green  Corn.  VEGETABLES.  To  Cook  String  Beans. 


salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.  Many  persons  prefer  it 
without  the  bacon,  in  which  case  cook  in  clear  water,  and 
finish  with  the  cream  or  milk. 

TO  CAN  GREEN  CORN. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  put  into  sufficient  water  to 
cook.  While  cooking  add  I  ounce  of  tartaric  acid  that  has 
been  dissolved  in  boiling  water  to  every  6  quarts  of  corn. 
Seal  up  in  air-tight  cans.  When  wanted  for  eating,  pour  off 
the  water,  put  in  fresh  water  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Let 
stand  10  minutes  before  cooking.  When  nearly  done,  add 
cream  or  milk,  butter,  pepper,  arid  salt.  A  lady  tells  me 
that  in  35  cans  put  up  in  this  way  not  one  proved  a  failure. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Boil  the  shelled  beans  2  hours.  In  the  meantime,  cut  the 
corn  from  the  cobs  and  put  the  cobs  in  with  the  beans  for  a 
half  hour,  to  extract  the  sweetness.  Use  double  the  quan- 
tity of  corn  that  you  do  beans.  At  the  end  of  the  2  hours, 
put  the  corn  in  with  the  beans  and  cook  a  good  J  hour. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  a  cup  of  cream  or 
milk  thickened  with  a  little  flour. 

LIMA  BEANS. 

Boil,  and  when  tender,  drain.  Season  with  butter  and 
pepper,  and  cream,  if  you  have  it. 

DRIED  LIMA  BEANS. 

Soak  over  night.  Two  hours  before  dinner  the  next  day 
cover  with  water  in  a  covered  vessel.  Cook  slowly  and  add 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 

STRING  BEAMS. 

String  the  beans,  cut  them  in  half  inch  pieces,  wash  them, 
and  put  over  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  adding  a  level  tear 
spoon  of  soda  to  2  quarts  of  beans,  let  boil  1 5  minutes,  drain, 
put  them  over  in  fresh  boiling  water,  and  as  soon  as  they 


137 

Baked  Beans.  VEGETABLES.  Greens. 

begin  to  be  tender,  salt  them,  then  boil  until  they  are  very 
tender — it  takes  a  long  time  to  cook  them  properly — after 
which  add  butter  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  stir  in  some  sweet 
cream.  Or  rich  milk  may  be  substituted,  dredging  in  wheat 
flour  to  give  it  the  thickness  of  cream.  Some  prefer  them 
without  either,  using  more  butter  instead. 

BAKED  PORK  AND  BEANS. 

Put  on  I  quart  of  dry  beans  to  boil  in  cold  water.  In  J 
hour  after  they  begin  to  boil,  add  \  teaspoon  of  saleratus. 
Let  boil  up,  and  pour  off  the  water.  Put  on  fresh  water, 
hot  or  cold,  let  boil  till  the  beans  are  tender,  but  not 
mashed.  Take  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  clean  it  well,  score  the 
rind,  and  put  it  in  the  center  of  the  beans,  in  a  large  drip- 
ping-pan. Bake  in  a  slow  oven  till  all  are  nicely  browned 
on  top. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

Put  i  quart  of  beans  to  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning 
put  i  pound  of  salt  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  bean-pot,  put 
the  beans  in,  with  plenty  of  water  to  cover,  2  tablespoons  of 
molasses,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  place  in  the  oven.  Bake 
slowly  all  day,  being  careful  to  keep  the  beans  covered  with 
hot  water  from  the  tea-kettle.  If  the  oven  is  wanted,  the 
bean -pot  can  be  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  any  length 
of  time,  without  harm.  This  quantity  will  make  over  2 
quarts  when  done. 

GREENS. 

Look  them  over  carefully,  wash,  and  put  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  salted  water.  Let  them  boil  without  cover  until 
tender,  then  put  into  a  colander,  press  out  all  the  water  you 
can,  and  put  them  into  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be 
served — a  tureen  or  some  deep  dish  is  preferable  :  cut  them 
down  each  way,  season  with  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter, 
adding  salt,  if  necessary.  Greens  are  very  nice  boiled  with 


138 

Spinach.  VEGETABLES.  Sauerkraut. 


ham.  Young  beets  and  beet-tops,  turnip-tops,  mustard, 
dandelions,  spinach,  pepper-grass,  plantain  leaves,  the  tops 
of  red-root,  cowslips,  narrow  dock,  cabbage  sprouts,  pig- 
weed, purslain — commonly  called  pusley — are  all  used  for 
greens. 

SPINACH. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Jackson,  Centerville,  Miss. 

Wash  and  put  into  a  tin  dish  without  water.  Put  this 
into  another  vessel  with  water,  which  let  boil  15  minutes. 
Drain,  but  do  not  press,  chop  fine,  add  hard-boiled  eggs,  3 
to  a  quart  after  it  is  cooked.  Season  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Return,  and  cook  10  minutes. 

SPINACH— BOILED. 

Miss  A.  C.  McKee,  Chicago. 

Look  over  very  carefully,  and  wash  well.  Boil  in  clear 
hot  water  until  tender.  Drain  in  a  colander.  Cut  fine  with 
a  knife.  Return  to  a  vessel  on  the  stove  and  season  with 
prepared  mustard,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

NOTE. — Spinach  is  sometimes  covered  with  nicely  poached 
eggs. 

WILTED  LETTUCE. 

Pick  over  the  lettuce  carefully,  and  place  in  a  vegetable 
dish.  Cut  across  it  3  or  4  times.  Fry  a  small  piece  of  fat 
ham  until  well  browned.  Cut  it  into  little  pieces.  Pour  in 
a  cup  of  vinegar  and  let  boil  up,  and  pour  immediately  over 
the  lettuce.  Cover  closely  and  serve  hot 

TO  MAKE  SAUERKRAUT 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Bower,  St.  Joe,  Mo. 

Take  solid  heads  of  cabbage,  after  one  or  two  good  frosts 
in  the  fall.  Slice  fine  as  possible,  and  pack  either  in  clean 
barrels,  firkins,  butter-tubs,  or  earthen  jars,  according  to 
the  quantity  you  need,  sprinkle  in  salt  as  carefully  as  though 
it  was  gold  dust.  One  pint  to  a  barrel  is  plenty,  and  less 
amounts  in  proportion.  Add  vinegar  I  gallon  to  a  barrel, 
but  don't  be  afraid  of  a  little  more.  Pack  and  pound  down 


139 

Fried  Cabbage.  VEGETABLES.  Cream  Cabbage. 

hard  as  you  can.  Set  in  a  warm  place  for  about  4  weeks,  or 
until  it  has  the  peculiar  kraut  smell.  Then  put  in  a  cool 
place,  the  colder  the  better,  and  if  it  freezes  up  for  all  win- 
ter, so  much  the  better.  The  longer  it  is  cooked  the  nicer 
it  is.  It  is  good  eaten  raw.  Filderkraut  or  Stonemason 
Marblehead  are  best  for  kraut,  though  any  firm,  sweet  cab- 
bage will  do. 

TO  COOK  SAUERKRAUT. 

Squeeze  a  quart  of  sauerkraut  from  the  brine  ;  wash  it  in 
cold  water,  drain,  place  in  a  oorcelain-lined  or  earthen  ves- 
sel, cover  with  cold  water,  boil  2  hours,  pour  into  a  colander, 
press  out  the  water,  replace  in  vessel,  prepare  a  dressing  of 
a  tablespoon  uf  lard  and  I  of  flour,  stir  thoroughly  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan over  the  fire  until  of  a  light  brown  color  ;  mix  this 
well  with  kraut,  and  serve.  Some  like  the  addition  of  a  few 
caraway  seeds. 

FRIED  CABBAGE. 

Slice  thin  or  chop  fine.  Put  into  a  frying-pan,  with  some 
salt  pork  gravy,  and  a  very  little  water.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Cover  closely.  Cook  slowly  on  top  of  stove 
When  done,  add  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  if  liked. 

SPICED  CABBAGE 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  tablespoon  of  sugar,  teaspoon  each 
of  whole  cloves  and  whole  pepper,  some  salt,  put  in  the 
cut  cabbage,  cover,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  It  is  very 
nice  served  with  a  flank  of  beef  cooked  as  follows  :  Take 
some  stale  bread,  soak  in  cold  water,  season  highly  ;  spread 
on  the  flank  and  roll  up,  put  some  drippings  in  the  pot  ; 
brown  the  flank  in  it  ;  then  add  water,  cover  and  cook  until 
tender. 

CREAM  CABBAGE. 

Slice  nicely,  cook  in  a  saucepan  with  just  water  enough  to 
keep  from  burning.  Season  with  salt.  When  tender,  drain, 
if  any  water  is  left.  Pour  over  it  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  a 


140 

Cauliflower.  VEGETABLES.  Asparagus. 

tablespoon  of  butter,  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour  made  smooth 
with  milk.     Let  boil  up  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  COOKED  WITH  SOUR  CREAM. 
Slice  or  chop  fine  a  small  head,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  ;  cook  in  a  kettle  in  just  enough  water  to  keep  from 
burning.  Take  J  cup  sour  cream,  J  cup  vinegar,  2  eggs, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  beat  together,  and  pour  it  over  the 
cooked  cabbage  in  the  kettle.  Let  it  boil  up  once  and 
serve.  This  can  be  eaten  by  a  dyspeptic  without  harm, 

CABBAGE  PUDDING. 

Select  a  white,  firm  head  of  cabbage.  Boil  it  till 
thoroughly  done.  Some  prefer  it  boiled  with  bacon,  others 
in  clear  salted  water.  Drain  it,  chop  fine,  add  a  tablespoon 
of  butter,  a  cup  of  milk,  3  beaten  eggs,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  a  pinch  of  mustard,  if  liked.  Put  in  a  pudding- 
dish  with  rolled  cracker  on  top.  Bake  till  the  eggs  and 
milk  are  cooked. 

CABBAGE  A  LA  CAULIFLOWER, 
Take  a  small,  solid  head  of  cabbage.     Boil  it  whole,  very 
gently  ;  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  cup  of  milk 
or  cream.     Serve  hot.     It  is  much  nicer  cooked  whole,  than 
cut. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Tie  coarse  netting  around  it  to  keep  from  breaking., 
When  done,  take  from  the  netting,  remove  to  a  vegetable- 
dish,  and  serve  hot  with  drawn  butter  poured  over  it. 

CREAM  CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil  in  salted  water,  just  enough  to  cook  it  ;  then  put  in 
a  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  and  a  very  little  thickening,  and 
season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

ASPARAGUS. 
Get  the  stalks  of  equal  length  if  you  can.     Tie  up.     Boil 


Peas.  VEGETABLES.  Beets. 

in  salted  water  not  quite  half  an  hour.  Lay  on  buttered 
toast,  and  pour  drawn  butter  over  it.  Asparagus  is  very 
nice  cut  up  into  half-inch  pieces  and  cooked  same  as  green 

peas. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

If  the  pods  are  boiled  well  and  the  water  strained,  it  will 
be  found  to  contain  a  great  deal  of  sweetness  and  nutri- 
ment. The  peas  may  be  cooked  in  this  water.  Season 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  cream,  if  you  have  it.  If 
the  peas  arc  old,  a  little  sugar  improves  them. 

STEAMED  PEAS. 

Put  green  peas  in  a  basin  or  earthen  dish  without  water 
and  set  in  a  steamer.  Allow  half  as  long  again  as  for  boil- 
ing. Season  when  tender,  and  add  hot  milk  to  make  them 
creamy.  They  are  more  delicious  than  when  cooked  in  any 

other  way. 

DRIED    PEAS. 

Put  to  soak  the  night  before.  In  the  morning,  parboil. 
Drain,  and  put  into  fresh  water  with  a  piece  of  ham  or  mid- 
dling, and  boil  until  done.  They  may  be  cooked  alone,  and 
are  very  palatable  seasoned  with  cream,  or  milk  and  butter. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES. 

Clean  well  and  put  to  cook  in  plenty  of  boiling  salted 
water.  It  will  take  i^  or  2  hours.  Drain,  and  serve  in 

melted  butter 

BOILED  BEETS. 

Wash  without  breaking  the  skin.  Put  to  cook  in  boiling 
water.  Boil  till  done.  Slice  and  season  with  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper,  in  the  vegetable-dish.  Do  not  put  on  vinegar, 
as  many  prefer  them  without.  Eat  hot.  Keep  out  enough 
whole  ones  to  cut  up  for  pickles. 

YOUNG  BEETS. 

Boil  and  slice,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  on  the  stove.  Take 
a  small  cup  of  vinegar,  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and 


142 

Vegetable  Oyster.  VEGETABLES,  Turnips. 


sugar,  little  salt  and  pepper,  lieaping  teaspoon  corn-starch 
dissolved  in  a  spoon  of  water  ;  stir  all  together  till  it  boils, 
then  pour  over  the  beets,  stirring  carefully.  Serve  very  hot 
in  a  covered  dish. 

VEGETABLE  OYSTER. 

Cut  into  inch  pieces  and  throw  into  cold  water  for  a  short 
time.     Boil  the  same  as  green  peas.     Drain  the  water  off 
and  pour  over  milk  or  cream,  thickened  a  little  with  flour. 
Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  let  boil  up  and  serve. 

FRIED   EGG   PLANT. 

Pare  and  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  a  little 
salt  on  each  slice  and  press  down  for  an  hour  ;  then  rinse  in 
clear  water,  and  dry  well  in  a  towel.  Dip  in  egg  and  rolled 
cracker  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Season  nlore,  if  required. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT. 

Take  a  full-grown  egg  plant  ;  cut  in  two  lengthwise  ;  take 
out  the  inside,  leaving  a  half-inch  of  the  peeling.  Chop 
fine,  and  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  A  very  little  sugar.  Cook  this  mix- 
ture in  butter  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  stirring  it  to  keep  from 
burning.  Let  cook  about  10  minutes  ;  fill  the  shells  with 
this,  and  bake  in  the  oven  half  an  hour.  Serve  in  the  shells. 

TURNIPS  AS  COOKED  IN  THE  SOUTH. 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Callahan,  Tangipahoa,  La. 

Boil  and  mash,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  arid  fresh 
pork  gravy,  or  put  a  piece  of  boiled  jowl  on  the  top  and  set 
in  the  oven  a  few  minutes. 

TURNIPS. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Johnston. 

Peel,  cut  in  slices,  and  steam.  When  done,  mash  ;  add 
salt,  teaspoon  of  sugar,  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  milk  or  cream, 
and  a  little  butter.  This  will  make  old  turnips  taste  like 
new.  Turnips  are  also  very  nice  cut  in  slices  and  cooked  in 


143 

Carrots.  VEGETABLES.  •  Squash. 


boiling1  salted  water,  and  served  in  slices  seasoned  with  but- 
ter and  pepper. 

SPRING   CARROT§. 

Leave  stalks  on.  Scrape,  and  boil  in  salted  water  till 
tender.  Dress  them  with  a  plain  white  sauce,  adding  a  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley  and  half  as  much  lemon  juice. 
This  is  known  as  maitre  d'  hotel  carrots. 

PARSNIPS. 

Scrape  them  clean,  cut  in  slices  lengthwise,  and  boil  in  a 
stewpan  or  skillet  till  tender.  Drain,  and  dip  into  a  batter 
made  of  half  a  cup  of  milk,  i  egg;  |  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der in  flour  enough  to  thicken  like  griddle-cakes.  Fry  in 
hot  drippings  or  butter. 

HUBBARD  SQUASH. 

Cut  in  large  pieces,  scrape  clean,  and  bake.  When  done, 
they  may  be  served  in  the  shell,  or  mashed,  just  as  pre- 
ferred. They  cleave  from  the  peel  very  easily.  Season 
with  butter  and  salt.  If  mashed,  smooth  nicely  on  top  with 
a  knife,  and  put  small  lumps  of  butter  and  dashes  of  pepper 
here  and  there.  Squash  may  be  steamed  if  preferred. 

WINTER  SQUASH  WITH  ROAST  MEAT. 
Pare,  and  cut  in  long  slices,  about  ij  or  2  inches'  thick. 
Cook  in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  roast.     Baste  when  the  meat 
is  basted.     It   is    nice  baked  in  a  pan  by  itself  with  meat 
drippings. 

SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Grandma  Owens. 

Take  them  when  the  skin  is  tender  and  can  be  easily 
punctured  with  the  finger-nail.  Cut  up  small  and  cook  in  as 
little  water  as  possible.  Cook  without  covering,  so  there 
will  be  more  rapid  evaporation.  Stir  often.  When  they 
are  sufficiently  cooked,  they  Will  generally  be  mashed 
enough  for  the  table,  season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  and  but- 
ter. Some  like  a  little  cream  or  milk  added  last. 


144 

Onions.  VEGETABLES.  Peaches. 

SUMMER  SQUASH  A  LA  FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Mrs.  Cliff  Sage. 

Slice  in  round  slices.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  Hour  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  hot  butter. 

BOILED  ONIONS. 

When  peeling  onions  keep  them  under  water,  ?nd  all 
weeping  of  the  eyes  will  be  avoided.  Put  to  cook  in  boiling 
water.  Boil  a  few  minutes,  then  drain  off  th-*  water  ;  put 
on  more  water  and  boil  again  ;  and  still  a  third,  in  which 
they  may  remain  till  tender.  This  renders  them  mild  in 
flavor.  When  the  last  water  is  poured  off,  add  a  cup  of 
milk  and  seasoning  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Boil  up  and 
serve.  The  milk  helps  to  relieve  them  of  their  offensive- 
ness.  Onions  are  very  healthful,  and  it  would  be  better  for 
the  generality  of  people  to  eat  them  oftener. 

NOTE. — It  is  said  that  if  a  cup  of  vinegar  be  put  on  the 
stove  while  cooking  onions,  their  smell  will  not  be  noticed. 

[To  peel  an  onion  so  it  will  not  break,  trim  off  the  root 
carefully,  but  not  closely.  Take  off  the  outer  dry  layer  and 
leave  the  others  intact.  Do  not  cut  the  stalk.  In  this  way 
it  will  not  boil  to  pieces. — Juliet  CorsonJ] 

FRIED  ONIONS. 

Peel  and  slice  ;  fry  in  hot  butler  or  pork  gravy.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  stir  to  prevent  burning.  When  tender 
pour  into  a  vegetable-dish,  and  send  to  table  hot. 

FRIED  PEACHES. 

Wipe  off  peaches  not  fully  ripe,  cut  in  thick  slices,  and 
fry  in  pork  gravy.  Serve  with  the  slices  of  pork. 

TO   FRY  CUCUMBERS. 

Peel,  cut  in  lengthwise  slices  rather  thick,  and  lay  in  cold 
water  half  an  hour.  Dry  on  a  towel,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  rolled  cracker,  and  fry  a 
delicate  brown  on  both  sides 


145 

Okra  VEGETABLES.  Macaroni. 

OKRA. 

Take  young,  tender  okra  and  boil  in  salt  water.  Drain 
carefully,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  i  cup  of  cream, 
and  after  it  boils  up  once,  take  up,  add  more  salt,  if  neces- 
sary, sprinkle  pepper  over,  and  serve  hot. 

RICE.     ' 

Miss  Addie  Butterfield,  Chicago. 

To  I  cup  rice  put  2\  cups  cold  water  and  a  teaspoon  salt. 
As  soon  as  it  boils,  set  back  and  let  cook  slowly  i^  hours. 
Then  add  I  cup  milk,  stir  well,  and  let  cook  I  hour  longer 
without  stirring. 

RICE  COOKED  IN   TWELVE  MINUTES. 

Miss 'Juliet  Corson. 

Put  I  cup  rice  into  4  cups  boiling  water  with  I  tablespoon 
salt  Boil  hard  12  minutes.  Drain  off  the  water,  and  set 
back  covered,  for  10  minutes. 

MACARONI-RICE. 

One  cup  rice.  Cook  tender  in  2\  cups  water.  Let  cool. 
Fill  a  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of  rice  and  grated 
cheese,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Pour  on 
milk  to  cover  Bake  20  or  30  minutes. 

MACARONI. 

A  delicious  breakfast  dish.  Take  a  pint  of  Italian  maca- 
roni broken  into  inch  pieces.  Put  into  a  gallon  of  boiling 
water,  and  let  boil  20  minutes  ;  drain  in  a  colander  ;  put  in 
a  basin  or  pudding-dish,  with  3  pints  of  milk,  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  bake  30  minutes. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE. 

Break  \  pound  macaroni  into  inch  pieces  and  put    into  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  boil  20  minutes  ;  add  a  little 
salt  while  boiling  ;  drain,  and  put  into  a  well-buttered  dieh 
*i9 


146 

Macaroni  Mushrooms.  VEGETABLES.  Baked  Mushrooms. 


in  layers,  with  plenty  of  grated  cheese  sprinkled  over  each 
layer,  with  pepper  to  suit  taste,  and  bits  of  butter.  When 
the  dish  is  full,  pour  over  half  a  cup  of  good  milk  or  cream. 
Bake  half  an  hour,  and  serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

MACARONI  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Raggio,  Chicago. 

One-half  cup  dried  mushrooms.  Fill  up  the  cup  with 
water.  Let  soak  2  or  3  hours.  Then  take  i  pound  maca- 
roni, break  up  and  put  to  cook  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  salted 
water.  Boil  from  20  to  30  minutes.  Drain  well  when  done. 
While  the  macaroni  is  cooking,  take  3  slices  oi  bacon  and 
fry.  Remove,  and  put  a  chopped  onion  in  the  gravy,  and 
fry.  Take  out,  and  put  in  2  spoons  tomato  catsup  or  canned 
tomatoes,  then  pour  in  the  mushrooms  and  let  simmer  15 
minutes  on  back  of  stove.  Take  a  large  platter  and  on  it 
grate  a  layer  of  cheese.  On  this  put  a  layer  of  macaroni, 
then  a  layer  of  mushrooms,  alternate  until  all  are  used. 
Serve  hot. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS. 

Take  meadow  mushroom  buttons  and  remove  the  stems. 
Clean  them  with  flannel  and  salt.  Rinse  in  cold  water  and 
dry  on  a  towel.  For  a  quart  of  these  put  3  tablespoon- 
butter  in  a  thick  iron  spider  or  stewpan.  When  melted  and 
beginning  to  brown,  put  in  the  mushrooms  and  let  simmer 
3  or  4  minutes.  Shake  the  vessel  to  keep  them  from  stick 
ing  or  burning.  Salt  them  and  add  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pep- 
per and  pounded  mace.  Let  stew  10  or  15  minutes  until 
tender,  and  pour  into  a  warm  dish.  Serve  at  once.  Either 
a  breakfast,  dinner,  or  lunch  dish. 

'  BAKED  MUSHROOMS, 

Take  the  mushroom  flaps,  cut  off  a  portio.,1  of  the  stalk, 
peel  the  top,  and  clean  with  flannel  and  salt.  Put  into  a  tin 
baking-dish  with  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each  one.  Dash 
a  little  pepper  over  them  and  bake  about  20  minutes  if  of 


H7 

Broiled  Mushrooms.  VEGETABLES.  Roasting  Ears. 

medium  size.  Pile  the  mushrooms,  high  in  the  center,  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  pour  the  gravy  around  and  serve  immediately 
on  hot  plates. 

BROILED    MUSHROOMS. 

Use  the  mushroom  flaps.  Cut  a  portion  of  the  stalk  off, 
and  peel  the  top.  Wipe  the  flaps  with  flannel  and  salt. 
Place  in  a  wire  broiler  over  a  clear  fire  ;  turn  once,  and  take 
up  on  a  hot  dish.  Put  lumps  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  a  bit  of  lemon  juice  on  them.  Put  into  a  hot  oven  for 
an  instant,  and  serve  on  hot  plates  immediately. 

MUSHROOM  TOAST. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  stewing,  and  when  tender  add  a 
teaspoon  of  flour  ;  shake  the  pan  till  the  flour  is  browned. 
Add  a  cup  of  broth,  and  stir  a  moment.  Then  add  ^ 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice.  If  you  have  no  broth  or  gravy, 
use  fresh  milk  or  cream  instead,  with  a  grating  of  lemon 
peel  and  a  bit  of  nutmeg.  Mushroom  catsup  is  also  nice  to 
add.  Whether  milk  or  gravy  is  used,  the  mixture  should  be 
poured  on  to  a  thick  slice  of  toast,  buttered. 

SEA  KALE. 
Cook    in    bunches,    like   asparagus,    and    serve    similarly. 

CELERY. 

Cut  off  green  tops,  trim  off  outer  leaves  ;  tie  in  bunches 
and  boil.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  ;  serve  on  toast  with 
melted  butter  ;  or  stew  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  ;  drain, 
and  serve  in  a  plain  white  sauce.  It  will  cook  in  less  than  ^ 
hour. 

POTATO  PUMPKIN. 

Pare,  cut  up  small,  and  cook  in  very  little  water ;  butter 
and  salt;  keep  stirring;  mash  fine  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

ROASTED  CORN. 

Take  off  the  husks  of  green  corn  and  lay  the  ears  over 
bright  coals.  Watch  and  turn  often  until  done..  Many  of 
the  people  South  leave  the  husks  on,  and  bury  the  ears  in 
hot  ashes.  These  are  "  roasting  ears  "  in  perfection. 


148 

Dried  Corn.  VEGETABLES.  Hominy. 

DRIED  CORN. 

Put  to  soak  the  night  before  in  cold  water  ;  in  the  morn- 
ing set  it  on  back  of  stove  in  the  same  water.  Half  an  hour 
before  noon  bring  it  forward,  let  simmer,  season  with  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  cream  or  milk,  if  liked.  A  pint  will 

serve  8  persons. 

TO  DRY  CORN. 

Cut  and  scrape  young  tender  green  corn  from  the  cobs. 
Put  into  a  pan  with  a  little  water  ;  cook  until  somewhat  ten- 
der. Stir  to  keep  from  burning.  Then  put  it  all  in  pie-tins, 
and  dry  cither  in  the  oven  or  out-doors.  Put  away  in  sacks. 
Corn  dried  in  this  way  is  almost  equal  to  fresh  corn.  A  very 
good  way  is  to  boil  the  corn  on  the  cob  for  10  or  T;  minutes, 
then  cut  off  and  dry. 

LARGE  HOMINY. 

Put  a  pint  to  a  gallon  water  ;  set  on  back  of  stove  an 
entire  day.  Do  not  salt  ;  it  swells  very  slowly.  After  a  few 
hours,  it  may  be  allowed  to  boil,  but  very  gently  ;  does  not 
need  stirring.  When  wanted  for  the  table,  heat  it  in  a  well- 
buttered  spider  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  milk,  if 
liked,  and  let  boil  up  once  or  twice. 

LYE  HOMINY,  OR  HULLED  CORN. 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Callahan,  Tangipahoa,  Louisiana. 

Make  a  lye  strong  enough  to  eat  a  feather  when  boiling 
hot.  Take  dry  corn  well  washed  and  looked  over,  and  put 
into  the  boiling  lye.  When  the  hull  is  eaten  off  and  the 
eyes  begin  to  come  out,  take  it  out  and  put  into  cold  water. 
Wash  in  several  waters  to  get  the  hulls  off.  Return  to  a 
clean  pot,  allowing  room  for  increase  in  bulk.  Boil  till  done. 
Salt  it.  Eat  in  milk  or  fry  in  pork  gravy. 


REMARKS.         LOAVES.         PONES.         RUSK. 
BATTER  CAKES.     MUFFINS.    MISCELLANEOUS. 


FLOUR.  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES.  LIME  WATER. 

BAKING  POWDER.          SUBSTITUTIONS.          YEAST. 


is  the  staff  of  life,  if  good,  and  cannot 
be  made  of  poor  flour.  The  new  process 
or  patent  flour  is  the  most  uniformly  satis- 
factory for  bread.  Ordinary  spring  wheat 
makes  good  sweet  bread,  but  is  sticky  and 
disagreeable  to  work  up.  It  takes  more  of 
this  flour  than  of  winter  wheat.  Flour  should  never  be 
stored  in  a  room  with  sour  liquids,  nor  with  fish,  onions, 
or  kerosene.  It  readily  absorbs  odors  that  are  perceptible 
to  the  sense.  A  damp  cellar  should  be  avoided,  as  it 
is  peculiarly  sensitive  to  atmospheric  influences.  Keep  in  a 
dry,  airy  room,  and  in  neither  a  freezing  nor  roasting 
temperature. 

As  soon  as  the  sponge  becomes  light  it  should  be  made 
ready  for  the  oven,  otherwise  fermentation  will  set  in  and 
sour  bread  will  be  the  result.  Small  loaves  are  better  than 
large,  and  make  less  waste.  Never  set  a  bread-bowl  of 
.sponge  where  it  is  so  hot  you  cannot  rest  your  hand  for  a 


Self- Raising  Flour.  BREAD.  Heat  Your  Flour. 

moment.  Let  loaves  rise  to  twice  the  original  size  before 
baking. 

When  bread  is  taken  from  the  oven  turn  out  on  a  bread- 
cloth.  Take  the  pan  off,  lay  an  end  of  the  cloth  over  the 
bottom  of  the  loaf.  Replace  the  pan  for  10  minutes.  This 
helps  to  make  the  crust  tender.  If  baked  quite  hard,  brush 
over  with  butter.  Cut  warm  bread  or  cake  with  a  hot  knife, 
to  prevent  clamminess. 

If  at  any  time  it  is  desired  to  have  bread  rise  more 
quickly  than  usual,  use  double  the  quantity  of  yeast, 

A  half  cup  sugar  in  a  batch  of  bread  will  keep  it  moist, 
and  make  it  much  nicer. 

Cut  bread  for  the  table  in  even — not  too  thick — slices, 
.and  just  before  the  meal  is  served.  Put  the  cut  loaf  away, 
that  it  may  not  dry. 

SELF-RAISING  FLOUR. 

In  my  own  experience  with  a  large  family,  I  find  it 
cheaper  to  buy  self-raising  flour  by  the  hundred  than  to 
use  baking  powder.  This  flour  we  use  for  biscuits,  short- 
cakes, fritters,  dumplings  ;  in  short,  for  anything  in  which 
baking  powder  or  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  are  called  for. 
It  never  fails  and  is  very  convenient.  Of  course  it  must  not 
be  used  with  sour  milk  or  with  yeast. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  FLOUR. 

This  flour  is  coming  to  the  front  and  claiming  the  atten- 
tion of  housekeepers.  The  bread  is  very  sweet  and  nutri- 
tious. The  manufacturers  advertise  that  it  contains  all  the 
gluten  of  wheat  and  all  the  phosphates.  The  bread  is  dark. 
The  dough  must  be  mixed  as  soft  as  possible  ;  otherwise 
the  mode  is  the  same  as  with  common  white  flour.  I  have 
used  it  and  like  it  well  enough  to  make  mention  of  it. 

HEAT  YOUR   FLOUR. 

In  cold  weather,  after  sifting  flour  into  the  bread-pan  for 
bread,  set  the  pan  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  and  heat  the 


Oven  Heat.  BREAD.  Weights  and  Measures. 

flour   through   thoroughly.     The   sponge  will    come    up  so 
much  quicker  that  it  will  surprise  you. 

TO  TEST  THE  HEAT  OF  THE  OVEN. 
Put  a  spoon  of  flour  on  an  old  dish  and  set  in  the  oven. 
If  it  browns  in  60  seconds  the  heat  is  right  for  bread.  If  it 
browns  in  less  time,  the  heat  must  be  lessened.  But  if  it  is 
r,ot  browned,  the  oven  is  not  hoi'  enough.  The  oft-repeated 
rule  to  hold  the  hand  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  count  so- 
and-so  is  no  accurate  test,  on  account  of  the  varying  ability 
of  different  persons  to  bear  heat.  If  stoves  had  a  thermom- 
eter attachment  for  the  oven  door,  by  which  the  degree  of 
heat  could  be  seen  at  all  times,  the  invention  would  Ve  o( 
incalculable  benefit. 

TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


$ 

cups  wheat  flour  make    - 

- 

- 

I 

pound. 

i  cups  corn-meal  make 

- 

- 

r 

pound. 

I 

large  coffee-cup  granulated 

sugar 

makes 

A 

pound. 

I 

large  coffee-cup  dry  brown 

sugar 

makes 

1 

pound. 

i  \  cups  firm  butter  pressed  down  make          i 

pound. 

i 

cup  raisins  make    - 

- 

- 

\ 

pound. 

10 

eggs  make     - 

- 

- 

I 

pound* 

i 

white  of  egg  makes 

- 

- 

I 

ounce. 

i 

yolk  of  egg  makes 

- 

- 

I 

ounce. 

16 

ounces  make 

- 

- 

I 

pound 

4 

teaspoons  make 

- 

- 

I 

tablespoor 

4 

tablespoons  make  - 

- 

- 

\ 

gin. 

8 

tablespoons  make  - 

- 

- 

I 

gin. 

2 

gills  make 

- 

- 

\ 

pint. 

2 

pints  make 

- 

- 

I 

quart. 

4 

quarts  make  - 

- 

- 

I 

gallon. 

8 

quarts  make  - 

- 

- 

I 

peck. 

The  cup  in  the  above  measure  is  the  common  white  stone- 
china  tea-cup,  and  holds  £  pint.  It  is  the  measure  adopted 
in  this  entire  book. 

A  "CUP  OF  FLOUR." 

In  the  following  recipes,  a  "  cup  of  flour  "  means  a  cup  of 
flour  dipped  from  the  barrel,  and  unsifted.  It  cannot 


152 

Lime  Water.  BREAD.  Baking  Powder. 


be  an  infallible  rule,  owing  to  the  difference  in  different 
brands  of  flour — some  necessitating  the  use  of  more,  and 
others  less.  Experience  will  soon  determine.  Flour  must 
always  be  sifted. 

LIME   WATER  FOR  BREAD. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Chace,  Mishawaka,  Tnd. 

Put  a  cup  of  air-slaked  lime  into  a  quart  fruit-jar  and  fill 
up  with  cold  water.  To  each  loaf  of  bread  take  a  table- 
spoon of  lime  water.  It  adds  both  to  quality  and  healthful- 
ness,  and  will  prevent  bread  from  souring. 

BAKING  POWDER. 

6  ounces  of  starch. 

6  ounces  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda. 

4  ounces  of  tartaric  acid. 

Powder  and  sift  several  times,  and  you  will  have  a  cheaper 
article  than  you  can  buy,  and  will  have  it  pure.  Keep  it 
from  the  air.  The  main  thing  in  preparing  one's  own  bak- 
ing powder  is  to  sift  it  times  enough.  The  above  is  a  relia- 
ble formula,  and  may  be  safely  used. 

Since  the  alarming  adulterations  of  almost  everything 
used  in  cooking,  a  chemist  advises  the  use  of  tartaric  acid 
in  place  of  cream  of  tartar.  It  costs  about  twice  as  much, 
but  half  the  quantity  suffices,  and  there  is  no  difficulty  in 
procuring  this  pure. 

SUBSTITUTING   ONE    "RISING"    FOR    ANOTHER. 

In  recipes  calling  for  J  teaspoon  soda  and  I  of  cream  of 
tartar,  baking  powder  may  be  used  instead,  using  about  -2 
teaspoons.  If  baking  powder  is  called  for,  soda  and  cream 
of  tartar  may  be  used  instead,  using  about  ^  less  of  both 
together,  than  the  amount  of  baking  powder  in  the  recipe. 
For  instance,  if  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  is  called  for, 
you  can  use  f  teaspoon  soda  and  twice  as  much  cream  of 
tartar,  which  together  will  make  2  teaspoons,  which  is  \  less 
than  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  If  sour  milk  is  substi- 


153 

Hop  Yeast  BREAD.  Potato  Yeast. 

tuted  for  sweet,  soda  must  be  substituted  for  baking  powder, 
and  in  those  cases  the  cream  of  tartar  must  not  be  used  at  all, 
the  sour  milk  furnishing  the  acid.  One  teaspoon  soda  to  a 
pint  of  sour  milk  is  about  right.  If  sweet  milk  or  water  is 
substituted  for  sour  milk,  and  the  recipe  calls  for  I  teaspoon 
soda,  baking  powder  may  be  used,  and  it  would  be  safe  to 
put  in  2  heaping  teaspoons  or  even  3.  Sweet  milk  and 
water  may  be  used  interchangeably.  Many  good  cooks 
prefer  water  to  milk  for  their  nicest  cake.  So  never  discard 
a  recipe  that  calls  for  milk  because  you  have  none,  as  water 
will  answer  very  well.  Recipes  calling  for  whites  of  eggs 
only,  require  very  little,  if  any,  baking  powder,  and  recipes 
giving  a  large  number  of  eggs,  generally  use  none,  as  the 
whites  are  beaten  very  light  and  added  last,  and  lighten  the 
batter  sufficiently. 

HOP  YEAST. 

Put  I  cup  hops  in  3  quarts  cold  water.  Boil  15  minutes, 
strain,  set  back  on  stove  and  add  5  large  potatoes,  peeled 
and  grated,  ^  cup  salt,  same  of  sugar.  Stir  well,  let  boil  up, 
take  off,  cool  and  add  a  cup  of  yeast.  Beat  thoroughly. 
Set  by  the  stove  until  it  is  light.  If  preferred,  the  potatoes 
may  be  boiled  in  the  hop  water,  and  then  mashed,  adding 
salt,  sugar,  and  yeast,  as  above. 

POTATO   YEAST. 

Mrs.  Carrie  S.  Carr,   New  Lisbon,  Wis. 

Take  3  large  potatoes,  peel  and  grate  as  rapidly  as  possi- 
ble, so  .they  will  not  turn  dark.  Pour  on  I  quart  boiling 
water  and  cook  ^  hour.  Add  \  cup  sugar,  same  of  salt, 
shortly  before  it  is  done.  When  sufficiently  cool,  put  in  any 
good  yeast  to  raise  it  ;  stir  well  together.  The  next  day  it 
will  be  as  light  as  a  foam.  A  tea- cup  of  this  yeast  will  be- 
enough  to  raise  4  or  5  loaves  of  bread.  Keep  in  a  cool 
place,  and  in  summer  renew  every  fortnight. 

VERMONT  YEAST  CAKES. 
Stir  into  a  pint  of  good  lively  yeast  a  tablespoon  salt  and 

*20 


154 

Loaves.  BREAD.  White. 

wheat  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  When  risen  light,  stir 
in  corn-meal  to  a  stiff  dough.  When  again  risen,  roll  very 
thin,  cut  into  3  inch  squares,  and  dry  in  the  shade  in  clear, 
windy  weather.  When  perfectly  dry,  tie  in  a  bag  and  hang 
in  a  cool,  dry  place.  One  cake  will  make  a  sponge  for  4 
quarts  of  flour.  When  wanted  for  use,  put  to  soak  in  a  pint 
of  lukewarm  water  and  when  dissolved  proceed  as  with 
other  yeast. 


LOAVES. 


WHITE.         GRAHAM.         BROWN.          PUMPKIN.          CORN-  MEAL. 
RYE  AND  INDIAN. 

QUICK  BREAD-MAKING. 

One  quart  boiling  water,  I  quart  cold  water,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  batter.  When  sufficiently  cool,  put  in  \  cup 
yeast,  teaspoon  salt,  and  flour  to  knead.  Knead  smooth 
and  place  in  a  well-greased  pan.  In  winter  cover  with  a 
dish,  in  summer  with  a  cloth  ;  do  this  at  night.  In  the 
morning  make  into  loaves  without  using  any  more  flour 
than  barely  necessary  to  handle,  place  in  the  baking-tins, 
greasing  the  top  and  sides  of  each  loaf  with  butter  or 
sweet  lard.  Let  it  rise  until  little  holes  may  be  seen  when 
it  is  pressed  gently  back  from  the  tin,  and  put  into  a  hot 
oven.  Keep  the  heat  uniform  for  30  to  45  minutes.  This 
bread  is  just  as  good  as  if  kneaded  for  J  hour. 

EASY  BREAD-MAKING. 

Take  3  tablespoons  flour,  2  of  salt,  2  of  sugar,  and  scald 
with  I  pint  boiling  water.  When  cool,  add  2  yeast  cakes  or 
a  cup  of  soft  yeast.  Boil  and  mash  12  good-sized  potatoes, 
add  3  quarts  hot  water,  let  cool  and  add  the  above  yeast. 
Let  stand  over  night.  Now,  for  3  loaves  of  bread,  take  3 


155 

Salt-Rising  BREAD.  Milk-Yeast. 


pints  of  the  mixture,  stir  it  into  sifted  flour  till  of  the  right 
consistency  to  knead.  Knead  it  into  loaves  and  put  into 
greased  tins,  let  rise,  and  bake.  The  mixture  will  keep  2 
weeks.  If  raised  biscuit  are  wanted  for  tea,  mix  shortening 
with  the  flour,  stir  in  the  yeast.  Mix  into  biscuit,  let  rise, 
and  bake. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD. 

Mrs.  Keith  Berry,  Maysville,  Kentucky. 

Stir  I  heaping  tablespoon  corn-meal  into  J  cup  scalding 
fresh  milk,  at  night.  Put  it  in  a  tin-cup  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place.  In  the  morning  take  I  pint  warm  water — not 
scalding—  a  pinch  of  soda,  and  make  up  a  batter  with  flour 
so  it  will  drop  off  a  knife.  Stir  in  the  mixture  that  has 
stood  over  night,  beat  it  well,  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  warm 
water,  and  keep  at  an  even  temparature.  It  will  be  light  in 
about  2  hours.  Then  add  i|  pints  warm  water,  a  teaspoon 
salt,  and  flour  to  work  into  loaves.  Knead  it  until  smooth, 
put  into  bread-pans.  Set  over  warm  water,  or  in  some 
other  warm  place  to  rise,  then  bake. 

MILK- YEAST  BREAD. 

Take  a  pint  of  wheat  middlings,  stir  into  it  I  tablespoon 
^ach  of  white  sugar  and  ginger  ;  I  teaspoon  each  of  salt 
and  soda.  Put  this  in  something  that  will  exclude  the  air. 
The  day  before  you  are  to  make  bread,  take  2  tablespoons 
of  this  dry  mixture,  put  into  a  cup,  pour  boiling  water  on  it 
to  scald,  make  it  about  the  consistency  of  yeast,  and  set 
where  it  will  keep  warm.  Do  this  at  noon,  and  by  night  it 
will  be  light,  though  not  risen  high.  The  next  morning 
take  a  cup  of  new  milk  and  I  of  boiling  water,  a  pinch 
salt ;  stir  in  flour  till  as  thick  as  fritters,  add  the  yeast  set 
the  day  before.  If  it  looks  dark  it  will  not  discolor  your 
bread.  Set  it  in  a  kettle  of  water  as  hot  as  you  can  bear 
your  hand  in,  and  in  2  or  3  hours  it  will  be  up  and  foaming, 
then  mix  your  bread,  put  in  the  pans  to  rise,  which  will 
take  about  an  hour,  and  then  bake  about  40  minutes. 


156 

Graham.  BREAD.  Com- Meal. 

GRAHAM  YEAST-BREAD. 

Make  a  rather  thick  sponge  of  white  flour,  i  cake  or  ^ 
cup  yeast,  2\  pints  water,  and  I  teaspoon  salt.  When  light, 
stir  in  Graham  flour  till  it  is  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred  with 
a  spoon,  and  I  cup  sugar  or  molasses.  Put  immediately 
into  the  pans  to  rise  for  baking.  It  requires  a  slow  oven 
and  takes  over  an  hour  to  bake.  Sometimes,  if  the  sponge 
is  not  quite  as  thick  as  intended,  it  is  necessary  to  use  more 
white  flour,  when  stirring  to  put  into  the  pans.  Graham 
bread  should  never  be  kneaded. 

QUICK  GRAHAM   BREAD. 

Mrs.  S.  Lawton,  Salamanca,  N.   Y. 

I  quart  sour  milk.  I  heaping  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  molasses.  I  teaspoon  salt. 

Stir  in  Graham  flour  till  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred  with  a 
spoon.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  makes  3  loaves. 

PUMPKIN  BREAD. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Owens,  Louisville,  Ky. 

2  cups  buttermilk.  I  cup  molasses. 

3  cups  wheat  flour.  \  cup  butter. 
3  cups  corn-meal.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  stewed  pumpkin.  \  tablespoon  soda. 
Steam  2\  hours  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

INDIAN  BREAD. 

2  cups  corn-meal.  4  cups  tepid  water. 
2  cups  rye  flour.  i  cup  molasses. 

2  cups  Graham  flour.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

\  cup  yeast  or  i  yeast  cake.          I  teaspoon  salt. 
Let  rise  and  bake  3  hours. 

NEW  ENGLAND  RYE  AND  INDIAN  YEAST  BREAD. 

Mrs.  O.  Jones,  South  Royalston,  Mass. 

Scald  i  quart  Indian  meal.  When  cool,  add  same  quan- 
tity of  rye,  J  tea-cup  molasses,  teaspoon  salt,  a  tea-cup  good 
lively  yeast,  and  small  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  well,  add  more 
water  if  needed.  When  risen  bake  2  hours  or  steam  3 
hours.  Graham  will  answer  in  place  of  rye. 


157 

Corn.  BREAD.  Brown. 

CORN  BREAD. 

I  quart  sifted  white  meal.  I  egg. 

3  cups  buttermilk.  i  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
I  teaspoon  soda.                            I  tablespoon  flour. 

J  cup  molasses.  Pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  well,  and  bake  in  a  2-quart  basin  in  a  moderate  oven 
i  hour. 

EGG   BREAD. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harvey,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

I  quart  corn-meal,  scalded.  2  eggs. 

I  cup  sweet  milk  or  water.  I  teaspoon  quick  yeast, 

i  large  spoon  lard.  i  teaspoon  salt. 
Bake  in  a  shallow  pan. 

PRISON  MISSION  BROWN   BREAD. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Wheeler,  Peoria,  111. 

I  pint  sour  milk.  I  cup  white  flour. 

i  cup  corn-meal.  i  teaspoon  salt. 

i  cup  Graham  flour.  I  teaspoon  soda. 

|  cup  molasses. 

Steam  2  hours  and  bake  i  hour,  in  a  2-quart  basin. 

[This  recipe  was  given  me  by  the  wife  of  our  United 
States  Prison  Missionary,  Rev.  W.  D.  A.  Matthews,  Onarga, 
111.,  who  is  doing  so  much  for  the  welfare  of  prisoners.] 

BOSTON  BROWN   BREAD. 

I  pint  Graham.  i  cup  sweet  milk. 

i  cup  corn-meal.  I  teaspoon  soda, 

i  cup  molasses.  i  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  Steam  3  hours. 

PAULINE'S  BROWN  BREAD. 

t  Mrs.  Dr.  Cory,  Chicago. 

4  cups  corn-meal.  2\  teaspoons  soda. 

2\  cups  of  flour.  i  teaspoon  shortening. 

2  cups  sour  milk.  i  teaspoon  salt. 
\\  cups  sweet  milk.                      Steam  3  hours. 


158 ^ 

Potato  Pone.  BREAD.  johnny  Cake. 

(POJJES,  HOE  CAKE,  JOHJfJIY  CAKE. 

POTATO  PONE. 

i  pint   grated     raw    sweet         A  cup  butter  or  drippings. 

potato.  i  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

3    eggs.  J  cup  water. 

1  cup  syrup.  Flour  for  batter  like  cake. 
Bake  in  a  deep  pan  and  let  remain  in  the  oven  till  cool. 

KENTUCKY  CORN  PONE. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harvey,  Bowling  Green,  Kentucky. 

One  quart  corn-meal.  Scald  the  meal  with  boiling  water. 
Then  mix  with  cold  water  and  2  teaspoons  salt  into  a  thick 
batter.  Mold  with  the  hands  into  flat  pones,  the  size  of 
the  hand.  Lay  in  a  baking-pan  and  bake  in  the  oven  until 
brown. 

CRACKLING   PONES. 

Scald  the  meal  as  above  and  add  a  cup  of  cracklings  to 
the  above  quantity,  and  bake. 

HOE  CAKE. 

Make  a  very  stiff  batter  of  water  and  corn-meal.  Salt  it, 
grease  a  griddle,  and  put  on  a  large  cake,  pat  it  down,  and 
cook  slowly  ;  turn  it.  When  done  send  it  to  table  on  a 
large  plate,  and  let  each  one  break  off  as  much  as  he  wishes. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Chace,  Mishawaka,  Ind. 

2  cups  corn  meal.  \  cup  brown  sugar. 

1  cup  flour.  i  egg.       Pinch  of  salt.  * 

2  cups  sour  milk.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

Sweet  milk  and  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder  may 
be  used  instead  of  sour  milk  and  soda. 

When  baking  Johnny  cake,  after  it  begins  to  brown,  baste 
it  with  a  rag  tied  to  a  stick,  in  melted  butter.  A  great 
improvement. 


159 

Rice- Flour  Cake.  BREAD.  Rusk  and  Roiis. 


OLD-FASHIONED  SWEETENED  JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Bower,  St.  Joe,  Mo. 

i  pint  sour  rnilk.  I  cup  flour. 

I  cup  sugar.  I  teaspoon  soda. 

^  cup  shortening.  J  teaspoon  salt. 

f  egg".  Nutmeg. 

Stir  in  corn-meal  till  as  thick  as  loaf  cake.  Bake  in  a 
square  tin  in  a  quick  oven.  Eat  hot,  with  lots  of  butter. 
Less  sweetening  may  be  preferred. 

RICE-FLOUR  CAKE. 

1  cup  rice  flour.  I  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  cups  common  flour.  I  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
2  eggs.                                            Pinch  of  salt. 

Bake  in  a  shallow  dish  in  a  quick  oven. 


(RUSK,  (ROLLS,  (BUJJS,   (BISCUIT. 


ROYAL  RUSK. 

I  pint  milk,  warm. 

4  eggs>  well  beaten. 

i  cup  soft  yeast  or  I  yeast  cake. 

Stir  in  flour  as  stiff  as  possible  with  a  spoon.  When  risen 
very  light,  work  in  J  cup  butter — or  part  lard — and  ^  cup 
sugar.  Add  flour  to  mold.  Let  rise  again,  make  into 
small  balls.  They  will  be  light  enough  to  bake  in  a  very 
few  minutes.  Brush  over  with  a  little  milk  and  sugar  when 
they  are  done,  and  dry  in  the  oven.  If  the  rusk  are 
wanted  for  supper,  make  them  up  early  in  the  morning.  If 
for  lunch,  they  must  be  stirred  up  over  night.  Some  per- 
sons prefer  them  sweeter  than  my  rule. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Put  2  quarts  sifted  flour  in  a  bread-pan.  In  the  center  of 
it  pour  a  pint  of  milk  that  has  been  boiled  with  J  cup  butter 


i6o 

Rolls.  BREAD. 


melted  in  it,  and  let  cool;  add  a  tablespoon  sugar,  and  J  cup 
yeast.  Let  stand  2  or  3  hours  without  mixing,  then  knead, 
and  let  rise  again.  When  light  make  into  small  rolls,  let 
rise  in  the  pans  and  bake  about  15  minutes. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

Mrs.  Kate  Peckham,  Dallas,  Texas. 

Take  raised  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  thin,  spread  with 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  ground  cinnamon, 
roll  up  like  jelly  cake,  cut  small  pieces  from  the  end,  put  in 
a  tin  to  rise.  When  light,  bake  slowly. 

CORN-MEAL  ROLLS. 

Mrs.   M.   R.    Johnston. 

If  you  wish  the  rolls  for  breakfast,  make  a  quart  of  mush 
at  noon,  the  day  before.  Salt  it  well ;  add  while  warm,  I 
tea-cup  of  lard  or  butter,  J  cup  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly  ; 
when  cool  enough,  add  a  small  cup  of  lively  yeast,  and  set 
to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  risen  well,  stir  in  flour  and 
knead  it  a  few  minutes  ;  then  set  to  rise  again.  Before  bed- 
time, knead  again.  In  the  morning,  roll  and  cut  out  like 
biscuit.  Butter  and  lap  one  side  over  the  other  ;  let  rise, 
and  bake.  In  hot  weather,  add  a  small  teaspoon  of  soda, 
well  dissolved. 

TEA  BUNS. 

Boil  I  pint  of  cream  and  pour  it  over  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  lard  and  butter  mixed.  Add  I  cup  sugar.  Let 
stand  until  cool  enough  and  add  J  cup  yeast,  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Let  rise,  knead, 
roll  out,  cut  into  cakes,  let  rise  again,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

RAISED  BISCUIT 

On  baking  day  save  out  enough  of  the  bread  dough  for  a 
large  pan  of  biscuit.  Mix  in  2  tablespoons  shortening, 
same  of  sugar.  Use  flour  enough  to  knead  all  well  together. 
Let  it  rise  in  a  bowl  and  chop  down  with  a  chopping-knife 
or  carver.  It  will  soon  come  up  again.  Keep  chopping  it 


Anow-Root  Biscuit.  BREAD.  Sour-Milk  Biscuit. 


down.  It  rises  sooner  after  each  chopping.  Make  into 
small  round  balls  for  supper.  Put  a  little  butter  between 
them,  let  rise,  and  bake.  Then  take  them  from  the  oven, 
brush  them  over  with  milk  and  sugar. 

ARROW-ROOT   BISCUIT. 

2  cups  flour.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  cups  sifted  arrow-root.  J  cake,  or  2  tablespoons  liquid 

2  cups  sweet  milk.  yeast. 

Knead  well  together,  roll  out,  cut  into  biscuits,  put  on  a 
greased  tin,  let  rise,  and  bake.  They  will  rise  in  about  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

SODA  AND  CREAM  OF  TARTAR  BISCUIT. 

Mrs.  Z.  E.  Pillsbury,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

One  quart  of  flour,  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tar- 
ter. Work  in  I  tablespoon  butter ;  I  teaspoon  saleratus 
dissolved  in  ij  cups  new  milk.  Mix,  roll  out,  cut  with  bis- 
cuit cutter,  and  bake. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 

Two  quarts  flour,  with  $  or  6  teaspoons  baking  powder 
sifted  through  it  ;  rub  in  2  tablespoons  lard  and  I  teaspoon 
salt  ;  stir  in  with  a  spoon  i-J  pints  cold  water ;  if  too  soft  to 
roll  out,  flour  the  board  well  ;  roll  soft,  cut  out,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

GRAHAM  BISCUIT. 

i  cup  sour  milk.  I  teaspoon  soda. 

i  egg.  \  teaspoon  salt. 

\  cup  sugar.  Graham  flour. 

i  tablespoon  lard. 

Stir  to  a  thick  batter.  Do  not  roll  out,  but  drop  with  the 
spoon  into  a  greased  dripping-pan. 

SOUR  MILK  BISCUIT. 

A  half  teaspoon  soda  powdered  fine  and  rubbed  into  a 
quart  of  flour  ;  mix  in  a  large  spoon  of  shortening,  and  a 

*2I 


1 62 

Griddle  Cakes.  BREAD.  Pancakes. 


saltspoon  of  salt  ;  then  stir  in  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  roll  soft, 
and  bake  in  well-heated  oven. 

BEATEN    BISCUIT. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harvey,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

3  pints  flour. 

I  large  spoon  lard. 

i  teaspoon  salt. 

Work  the  lard  well  into  the  flour  ;  add  I J  cups  water.  Stir 
all  together  with  the  hand,  until  it  is  a  stiff  dough.  Then 
knead  it  on  the  molding-board  until  it  is  smooth.  Then 
beat  it  with  the  rolling-pin  until  it  puffs  up  and  seems  light. 
Divide  in  small  pieces,  work  with  the  hands,  and  roll  each 
one  a  half  inch  thick.  Prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  quick- 
oven.  Cutting  with  a  knife  deadens  it,  as  also  rolling  with 
the  rolling-pin. 

CREAM   BISCUIT. 

Sift  together  I  quart  flour,  I  teaspoon  soda,  mashed  fine, 
and  I  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  with  I  pint  sour  cream.  Roll 
out,  using  more  flour  if  necessary,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
An  egg  beaten  into  the  cream  is  considered  an  improve- 
ment, by  some  persons. 


G(RI(D(DLE, 


GRIDDLE    CAKES 

Of  buckwheat,  wheat,  entire  wheat,  or  Graham,  may  be 
made  with  sour  milk  and  eggs,  and  are  very  palatable. 
To  2  or  3  quarts  use  3  eggs  and  a  teaspoon  of  soda. 

BREAD  PANCAKES. 

Take  the  crusts,  crumbs,  and  pieces  of  bread  left  on  the 
table  and  in  the  bread-box.  Soak  in  water  till  soft,  press 
through  a  colander.  Cover  with  sour  milk.  Add  2  beaten 
eggs>  and  5  teaspoon  soda  and  salt  to  a  quart.  Stir  in  flour 


163 

Buckwheat  Cakes.  BREAD.  Hominy  Cakes. 

till  rather  thicker  than  buckwheat   batter,  and  bake  slowly 
on  a  hot  griddle. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

Put  tepid  water  in  a  jar  with  salt  and  yeast  ;  J  cup  of 
home  yeast,  or  ^  cake  compressed,  will  be  sufficient  for  2  or 
3  quarts  of  water.  Make  a  smooth  batter  with  buckwheat 
flour,  of  medium  thickness.  In  the  morning,  beat  well,  but 
do  not  add  any  soda  for  the  first  or  second  bakings.  Save 
a  pint  of  batter  for  the  next  rising.  It  is  better  to  take  out 
the  batter  that  you  wish  to  keep  before  the  soda  is  added, 
that  it  may  not  become  too  strongly  impregnated  with  the 
soda.  Bake  quick  on  a  hot  griddle. 

RAISED  CORN-MEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 

1  cup  white  corn-meal.  i  cake  yeast. 

2  cups  flour.  i  tablespoon  brown  sugar. 
2  cups  milk.                                   \  teaspoon  soda. 

i  quart  boiling  water.  I  teaspoon  salt. 

Scald  the  meal  at  night,  with  the  boiling  water.  Beat 
well  ;  while  yet  warm,  stir  in  flour,  sugar,  milk,  and  yeast. 
Let  rise  all  night ;  then  add  soda  and  salt.  Leave  a  cup 
full  for  the  next  rising. 

CORN  BATTER  CAKES. 

Columbia  Loving,  Bowling  Green,  Kentucky. 

i  pint  meal.  J  teaspoon  soda, 

i  cup  buttermilk.  J  cup  water. 

^  teaspoon  salt.  I  egg. 

Mix  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle, 

HOMINY  CAKES. 

One  pint  of  fine  hominy  soaked  all  night.  Boil  it  soft. 
Drain,  and  add  I  pint  white  corn-meal,  sifted,  and  3  table- 
spoons fresh  butter  ;  a  saltspoon  of  salt.  Then  add  gradu- 
ally i  quart  milk.  Let  cool,  and  add  at  the.  last  3  egg»s, 
beaten  very  light.  Bake  on  a  griddle. 


164 

Flannel  Cakes.  BREAD.  Corn  Muffins. 


FLANNEL  CAKES. 

i  pint  sour  milk  or  sour  cream. 
I  tablespoon  melted  butter  if  rnilk  is  used. 
3  eggs  »   *  teaspoon  soda. 
Flour  for  batter  to  bake  on  griddle. 

Leave  the  whites  of  eggs  till  just   before   baking,  then 
beat  very  light  and  stir  in  lightly. 


MUFFIMS  AJlfr  GEMS. 


RAISED  MUFFINS. 

I  quart  flour.  2  eggs. 

3  cups  sweet  milk.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

\  cup  yeast. 

Beat  well  over  night.  In  the  morning  bake  in  muffin- 
rings  greased  and  heated. 

QUICK  MUFFINS. 

3  cups  flour  before  sifting.  I  heaping  tablespoon  butter. 

i  cup  water  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

I  \  cups  sweet  milk.  4  teaspoons  bakingpowder. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  shortening  to  a  cream,  add  the  wet- 
ting, then  sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  into  it.  Beat 
well,  heat  gem-irons  hot,  grease,  fill  nearly  full,  and  bake  in 
hot  oven  20  minutes.  An  egg  is  used  sometimes,  in  which 
case  use  but  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 

1  cup  corn-meal.  \  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  flour.  \  cup  butter,  pinch  of  salt. 

2  cups  sweet  milk.  2  teaspoons   baking   powder. 

Bake  in  muffin-rings  or  gem-pans. 


Hominy  Muffins.  BREAD.  Squash  Muffins. 

Corn  Muffins. 

Columbia  Loving,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

2  cups  meal.  I  egg,  beat   white    and  yolk 

1  cup  buttermilk.  separately. 

\  teaspoon  each  soda  and  salt. 

Add  the  white  of  egg  last  thing  and  stir  in  lightly.  Bake 
in  hot  gem-irons. 

HOMINY  MUFFINS. 

Wash  a  pint  of  fine  hominy  through  several  waters. 
Pour  boiling  water  on  it,  cover  and  let  it  soak  half  a  day. 
Then  boil  it  in  a  saucepan  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  till  soft 
enough  to  mash.  Drain  it,  and  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  corn- 
meal  or  wheat  flour,  a  little  salt,  3  cups  milk,  and  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter.  When  the  batter  is  cool  enough,  add 
4  tablespoons  yeast ;  cover,  and  keep  warm  until  very  light, 
with  the  surface  covered  with  bubbles.  Grease  some  muffin- 
rings,  set  them  on  a  hot  griddle,  fill  them  |  full,  and  bake 
brown  on  both  sides.  Send  to  the  table  hot,  to  be  buttered 
quickly. 

MUSH  MUFFINS. 

Make  corn-meal  mush  as  you  ordinarily  do,  and  when 
cold  take 

2  cups  mush.  2  teaspoons   baking  powder. 
2  cups  flour.  I  of  salt. 

2  cups  milk.  i  tablespoon    melted    butter. 

3  eggs-  Bake  in  gem  pans. 

SQUASH  MUFFINS. 

i  cup  sifted  squash. 
3  cups  sifted  flour. 
I  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  teaspoon  soda,  and 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar — both  mashed  fine   and 
put  in  dry. 

i  teaspoon  butter. 
i  pint  sweet  milk. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  in  gem-pans,  20  minutes. 


1 66 

Crumpets.  BREAD.  Laplanders. 


CRUMPETS. 

One  quart  warm  milk,  i  cake  yeast,  little  salt,  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  rise,  add  ^  cup  melted  butter  and 
bake  in  muffin-rings. 

PLAIN  GRAHAM  GEMS, 

Dr.  Alice  B.  Stockham,  Chicago. 

3  cups  water — scant.  3  cups  Akron  Graham  flour. 

i  tablespoon  molasses. 

Stir  well  together,  fill  the  deep  acorn  gem-irons  full,  put 
on  the  grate  in  the  oven  for  10  minutes,  then  on  the  oven 
bottom  20  minutes.  Salt  will  make  heavy.  Do  not  use  it 
in  anything  that  has  no  yeast  powder. 

NOTE. — The  secret  of  Graham  gems  is  to  have  the  irons 
deep  and  very  hot  and  the  oven  equally  hot.  If  hot  enough 
the  gems  will  crust  over  quickly  arid  retain  the  gases  which 
cause  their  lightness.  But  if  there  is  not  sufficient  heat  the 
gases  escape  and  the  gems  fail  to  rise. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

2  cups  Graham  flour.  2  teaspoons  sugar. 

4  tablespoons  white  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

i  J  cups  water. 

Stir  well.  Heat  gem-irons  hot,  grease,  fill  f  full  and 
bake  in  hot  oven  25  minutes. 

CORN  GEMS. 

2  cups  corn-meal.  \  cup  shortening. 

2  cups  flour.  ^  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  sweet  milk.  2  eggs. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  gem-pans. 

LAPLANDERS. 

i  egg. 
i  cup  milk. 

i  cup  flour.     Pinch  of  salt ;  beat  well. 

Pour  into  hot  gem-irons  well  buttered,  and  bake  quickly. 
No  baking  powder  required.  Fill  irons  nearly  full. 


.167 

Sally  Lunn.  BREAD.  Wafflas. 


SALLY  LUNN. 

Miss  Sallie  Owens,  Lewisburg,  Ky. 

1  pint  sweet  cream.  2  pints  flour. 

2  eggs.  i  cup  sugar. 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  a  shallow  pan,  cut  in  square  pieces  and  serve  hot. 
PUFFS. 

Mrs.  O.  Blackman,  Chicago. 

2  eggs  beaten  very  light. 
i  cup  sweet  milk. 
i  cup  flour  ;  pinch  of  salt. 

Bake  in  cups  or  gem-pans  in  quick   oven.     Is  nice  with 
cream  and  sugar  for  dessert. 


MISCELLAJ1EO  US. 


WAFFLES.     CRACKERS.     SHORTBREAD.     COMMUNION  BREAD 
TOAST.        SANDWICHES.        CEREALS  AND  MUSHES. 

To  bake  waffles,  put  the  iron  on  the  stove.  When  one 
side  is  hot,  turn  it ;  when  that  side  is  hot,  grease  it,  turn, 
grease  the  other,  fill  about  |  full.  When  it  browns  deli- 
cately, turn  it,  brown  the  other  side.  Take  up  on  a  warm 
plate,  and  butter  each  one  as  fast  as  baked,  putting  one 
upon  another.  Serve  with  powdered  sugar  or  maple  syrup. 
Waffles  require  considerably  longer  to  bake  than  griddle- 
cakes,  and  must  be  watched  constantly. 

RAISED  WAFFLES. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 

i  quart  milk.  5  large  spoons  yeast. 

1  heaping  quart  flour.  i  large  spoon  melted  butter. 

2  eggs.  i  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  milk,  flour,  yeast,  and  salt  over  night.  In  the 
morning,  add  the  eggs  and  butter,  and  bake  in  waffle-irons. 


1 68 

Waffles.  BREAD.  Crackers. 


QUICK    WAFFLES. 
4  eggs. 
i  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

1  pint  milk  ;  pinch  of  salt. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  in  flour  enough  to  make 
thick  batter. 

Heat  irons  well,  before  filling. 

RICE    WAFFLES. 

i  cup  boiled  rice.  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

1  pint  milk.  J  teaspoon  soda. 

2  eggs>  l  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 
Flour  for  thin  batter,  to  bake  in  waffle-irons. 

CRACKERS, 
i  cup  butter. 
4  cups  flour. 
I  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  thoroughly  together,  and  add  more  flour  if  necessary 
to  make  them  hard  and  brittle.  Pinch  off  little  pieces  and 
roll  each  one  by  itself,  thin.  Cut  it  in  the  shape  desired. 
Prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GRAHAM    CRACKERS. 

i  quart  Graham  flour. 

ij-  cups  very  cold  water. 

Knead  very  hard  for  fully  20  minutes,  using  more  flour  if 
the  dough  is  not  stiff  enough.  Roll  out  like  pie-crust,  cut 
in  shapes,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  bake  1 5  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Let  get  cold  before  putting  away. 

GRAHAM  FRUIT  CRACKERS. 

|  cup  sweet  cream. 

i  cup  currants,  cleansed,  and  well  dried. 
£  teaspoon  soda. 
^  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

Put  into  a  pan  i  full  cup  sifted  Graham  flour  and  the 
same  of  white  flour  ;  sift  the  cream  of  tartar  through  it  2  or 

3  times.     Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  teaspoon  of  hot  water  and 


169 

Short  Bread.  BREAD  Toast. 

stir  into  the  cream.  Add  this  to  the  flour,  forming  a  stiff 
dough,  knead  as  little  as  possible.  Roll  into  a  very  thin 
sheet,  spread  with  the  dried  currants.  Cover  this  with  an- 
other very  thin  sheet  of  dough.  Roll  the  rolling-pin  over  it, 
pressing  the  layers  well  together.  Cut  into  small  squares, 
prick  deeply  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SCOTTISH  SHORT-BREAD. 

4  cups  fine  flour.  2  cups  butter. 

i  cup  white  sifted  sugar. 

Knead  well  together  without  any  wetting.  After  it  is 
thoroughly  worked  and  kneaded,  roll  out  to  half  an  inch 
thickness  and  put  it  on  a  paper  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  bake 
slowly  until  done  and  crisp.  It  is  customary  to  put  a  few 
caraway  seeds  and  bits  of  orange  peel  on  top. 

BREAD  FOR  COMMUNION. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Hurford,  Brownsville,  Pa. 

4  cups  flour.  i  tablespoon  butter. 

|  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  as  stiff  as  biscuit  dough  and  bake  in 
one  loaf. 

BUTTERED  TOAST. 

Cut  bread  of  medium  thickness.  Toast  each  side  over  a 
clear  fire,  until  a  golden  brown.  Dip  the  edge  all  around 
quickly  in  hot  water,  but  keep  the  center  of  the  piece  dry. 
Spread  generously  with  butter.  Put  the  slice  on  a  plate, 
cover  closely  and  set  in  the  oven  to  steam.  Add  each  slice 
until  all  are  done.  Serve  immediately. 

MILK  TOAST. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  over  boiling  water  to  heat.  When 
nearly  boiling  hot,  stir  in  a  small  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed 
smooth  in  £  cup  cold  milk.  Let  cook  for  a  minute  or  two. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  large  spoon  of  butter.' 
Dip  each  slice  of  toast  in  the  milk  separately.  Place  in  a 
tureen,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  whole. 

*22  • 


Toast.  BREAD.  Sandwiches. 

FRENCH  TOAST. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  J. 

Make  a  batter  of  2  eggs,  ^  cup  milk,  pinch  salt,  and 
teaspoon  corn  starch.  Dip  thin  slices  of  bread  in,  and  fry 
brown  in  a  well-buttered  frying-pan.  If  the  bread  is  very 
dry,  dip  in  water  first. 

STRAWBERRY  TOAST. 

Mrs.  John  Wilber,  Chicago. 

One-third  cup  butter  and  I  cup  sugar  creamed  together,  and 
well  mixed  with  I  quart  strawberries  cut  up  with  a  knife. 
Pour  the  whole  over  slices  of  French  toast  in  a  platter. 

Serve  hot. 

EGG  TOAST. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Jackson,  Centerville,  Miss. 

Split  cold  biscuit  and  brown  in  the  stove.  Then  dip  each 
piece  in  boiling  milk,  seasoned  with  melted  butter.  Then 
poach  some  eggs  and  put  one  on  each  piece  of  biscuit. 

TO  FRESHEN  STALE  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  OR  CAKE. 

Dip  in  cold  water  tor  an  instant,  then  put  into  a  hot  oven 
for  10  minutes. 

STEAMED  BREAD  OR  BISCUIT. 

Very  dry  bread  or  biscuit  are  very  nice  for  breakfast  if 
steamed  a  few  minutes. 

SANDWICHES. 

Cut  bread  in  even  slices  of  medium  thickness.  Spread 
thinly  with  butter.  Divide  the  slice  in  two.  Lay  on  one 
half  a  thin  slice  of  any  cold  meat,  boiled  or  roasted,  or 
pressed  meat  of  any  kind,  or  grated  ham  and  mustard. 
Lay  the  other  half  of  the  slice  on.  Biscuit  may  be  used 
instead  of  bread. 

CHEESE  SANDWICH. 
Take  slices  of  brown  bread  and  butter  and  put  slices  of 


I/I 

Omelet.  BREAD.  Cracked  Wheat 

rich  cheese  between.  Place  on  a  plate  in  a  hot  oven  and 
let  the  bread  toast.  Serve  very  hot.  Allow  one  sandwich 
for  each  person. 

ROLLED   SANDWICHES. 

Cut  freshly-made  bread  lengthwise  of  the  loaf  with  a 
sharp  knife,  in  thin,  even  slices.  Spread  with  butter  before 
cutting.  They  are  nicer  to  discard  the  crust  entirely 
Then  put  on  a  thin  layer  of  grated  ham.  Roll  up  like  a 
jelly-roll.  Wrap  tightly  in  a  cloth  to  keep  them  in  shape 
until  wanted.  Serve  the  same  day  the  bread  is  made  if 
possible. 

MINCED   HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  ham  fine  and  mix  with  mustard,  pepper,  and 
chopped  pickles,  and  put  between  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

BREAD  AND  TOMATO  OMELET. 
Dip  thin  slices  of  bread  in  tomato  sa»uce  and  fry  in  butter, 
until  brown. 

BREAD  OMELET. 

Mrs.  Z.  B.  Glynn,  East  Boston,  Mass. 

Put  bread  crumbs  into  a  saucepan  with  cream  or  milk  ; 
salt  and  pepper.  W7hen  the  bread  has  absorbed  the  cream, 
break  in  as  many  eggs  as  will  suffice  for  the  meal,  and  fry 

as  omelet. 

OATMEAL. 

i  cup  oatmeal  mixed  with 
4  cups  boiling  water, 
i  teaspoon  salt. 

Cook  in  a  double  boiler.  If  you  have  none,  use  a  tin  pail 
set  in  a  kettle  of  water.  Will  cook  in  ij  hours,  but  is  better 
if  cooked  longer. 

CRACKED  WHEAT. 

i  cup  cracked  wheat. 
4^  cups  of  salted  water. 

Cook  in  a  steam  cooker  or  covered  pail  in  a  kettle  of  boil- 
ing water,  3  hours. 


172 
Hominy.  BREAD.  Mush. 

FINE  HOMINY. 

One  cup  to  7  of  salted  water.  Cook  in  steam  cooker  4 
hours. 

CORN-MEAL  MUSH,  OR  HASTY  PUDDING. 
When  the  water  is  boiling,  salt  it  and  scatter  the  meal  in 
by  the  handful,  stirring  constantly.    Make  it  a  thick,  smooth 
batter,  and  at  the  last   stir  in  a  good  handful  of  flour  ;  it 
helps  bind  it,  and  makes  it  better  for  frying. 

FRIED  MUSH. 

When  hasty  pudding  is  made,  it  should  be  put  into  a 
baking-tin  to  mold  ior  frying.  Cut  in  slices  and  fry  slowly 
in  drippings,  or  lard,  a  crisp  brown  on  both  sides.  Eat  with 
syrup.  Many  prefer  frying  the  .*xmsh  when  it  is  first  made 
fresh,  by  dropping  it  in  pats  in  hoi:  drippings. 

GRAHAM  MUSH. 

Mrs.   H.  M.  Ball,  Normal,   111. 

One  cup  Graham  to  4  of  water.  Put  the  Graham  into  2 
cups  of  cold  water,  make  it  very  smooth  and  free  from 
lumps,  then  stir  this  into  2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Stir  rap- 
idly, and  let  it  cook  for  5  minutes,  then  set  it  on  the  back  of 
the  stove  where  it  will  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour  or 
longer.  A  delicious  breakfast  dish  may  be  prepared  by 
adding  3  tart  apples  sliced  as  for  pies,  to  the  mush,  when  it 
is  set  back  on  the  stove.  Cover  it,  and  do  not  disturb  until 
the  apples  are  done.  It  will  take  perhaps  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 


'HE  essentials  to  good  pie-crust  are  good 
sifted  flour,  good  butter,  and  sweet  lard. 
Use  very  cold  water  for  wetting,  and  roll 
the  crust  from  you.  A  quick  oven  is  nec- 
essary for  almost  all  kinds  of  pies.  Nearly 
all  pies  should  be  eaten  fresh.  Mince  is 
about  the  only  exception. 

If  a  little  beaten  egg  is  rubbed  over  the  bottom  crust  of  a 
pie,  it  will  prevent  juice  from  soaking  through  it. 

The  yolks  of  eggs  bind  the  crust  much  better  than  the 
whites.  Apply  it  to  the  edges  with  a  brush. 

In  all  juicy  pies,  or  when  there  is  a  tendency  for  the  juice 
to  run  out,  take  some  stiff  white  writing  paper,  make  a  roll 
about  as  large  round  as  a  penny  and  stand  upright  in  a  hole 
cut  in  the  upper  crust.  Let  it  rest  on  the  lower  crust.  Push 
the  fruit  aside  to  make  room  for  it.  Bake  with  this  funnel 
in  and  the  refactory  juice  will  collect  in  it  instead  of  on  the 
oven  bottom.  It  is  not  necessary  to  paste  the  paper  to- 
gether. It  will  keep  its  place  without  any  trouble,  and  may 
be  removed  when  the  pie  is  done.  Another  way  to  prevent 
,  the  juice  from  running  out  of  fruit  pies  is  to  put  the  sugar 
on  the  bottom  crust  under  the  fruit  instead  of  over  it. 

In  making  a  large  batch  of  pies,  it  is  just  as  well  to  divide 
the  paste  and  make  the  bottom  crust  less  rich  than  the  top 
crust. 

Mince  meat  can  be  made  in  the  fall,  and  packed  away  in 
jars,  for  the  entire  winter.  Then  it  is  but  little  trouble  to 
make  crust  for  a  pie,  or  the  pies  themselves  may  be  made 


174 

Pie  Hints.  PIES.  Pie-Crust. 

in  large  numbers  and  kept  in  a  cool  'place  and  heated  when 
wanted. 

Apples  may  be  used  for  mince  pies  without  peeling. 
Chopped  fine,  the  omission  will  be  unnoticed.  A  lady  of 
well-known  culinary  ability  says  chopped  potatoes  may  be 
used  instead  of  apples.  Soak  over  night  in  vinegar  ;  no  one 
will  know  the  difference. 

Wild  grapes  may  be  put  up  for  winter  use  in  sorghum  or 
molasses.  Fill  a  jar  with  grapes  and  pour  the  molasses 
over  until  covered  with  it.  Tie  a  cloth  over,  and  in  winter 
it  will  be  found  of  a  very  rich  color  and  flavor,  and  is  deli- 
cious for  pies. 

Canned  pie-plant  is  one  of  the  most  useful  adjuncts  to  a 
winter  supply  of  fruits.  Nothing  tastes  better  than  a  pie 
made  of  it  in  midwinter.  It  may  be  used  very  largely  for 
pies  as  the  principal  filling,  by  using  enough  of  other  fruit 
to  flavor.  The  pie-plant  readily  takes  to  itself  any  flavor. 
Thus  with  a  scarcity  of  currants,  gooseberries,  apples,  etc., 
the  bulk  of  the  pie  may  be  made  of  the  rhubarb  with  but 
little  of  the  other  fruit. 

Many  of  the  best  cooks  of  the  present  day  make  their 
pies  without  sugar.  When  baked  remove  the  upper  crust 
and  sweeten.  It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  it  takes  less  sugar 
than  if  it  is  cooked  in  the  pie. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  detail  each  fruit  in  pie-making.  Hav- 
ing made  one  or  two  that  are  similar,  there  is  judgment 
enough  acquired  to  make  others. 

PIE-CRUST. 

i^  cups  flour  before  sifting. 

^  cup  butter,  or  a  trifle  less  of  lard. 

3  tablespoons  water  ;  pinch  of  salt. 

This  is  for  upper  and  under  crusts  of  a  large,  round  tin  or 
yellow  pie-plate.  Put  the  salt  in  the  flour  and  sift  it.  Take 
a  knife  and  use  in  mixing  the  shortening  with  the  flour. 


Plain  Crust.  PIES.  Rich  Crust. 

Butter  will  cut  up  nicer  than  lard,  and  will  make  the  crust 
more  flaky.  When  it  is  well  cut  together,  put  in  the  water 
very  gradually,  chopping  the  mixture,  and  trying  to  avoid 
wet  streaks.  Do  not  knead  it  with  the  hands.  Sprinkle 
some  flour  on  the  molding-board  ;  flour  the  rolling-pin,  take 
a  little  more  than  half  of  the  crust  and  gather  it  into  a  little 
round  pile,  and  roll  it  out  from  you.  If  it  is  not  the  proper 
shape,  turn  it  at  right  angles  and  roll  from  you  again. 
When  it  is  of  the  required  size,  cover  the  sides  and  bottom 
of  the  pie-dish  ;  finish  the  upper  crust  the  same  way,  and 
make  3  or  4  gashes  in  it  for  the  escape  of  steam.  After  the 
pie  material  is  put  in,  and  the  upper  crust  put  on,  pinch  the 
edges  of  the  two  crusts  neatly  together. 

PIE-CRUST—PLAIN. 

Mrs.   David   H.  Wilkie,  Chicago. 

Five  cups  sifted  flour,  I  cup  lard,  a  little  salt,  J  cup  of 
very  cold  water  ;  handle  as  little  as  possible.  Do  not  grease 
your  pie-plates,  they  are  more  likely  to  stick  if  you  do  ;  you 
will  find  this  just  right. 

PIE-CRUST— VERY  LIGHT. 

Mix  3  cups  flour  and  J  cup  water  together,  roll  the  paste 
out  and  lay  bits  of  butter  upon  it,  beat  up  the  white  of  an 
egg  and  brush  it  all  over  the  paste,  fold  it,  roll  it  out  again, 
and  repeat  the  process  with  more  butter  till  the  whole  of 
the  white  of  egg  is  used  ;  it  will  make  the  paste  rise  and 
become  very  flaky. 

VERY  RICH  PIE-CRUST  FOR  FRUIT  PIES. 
Take  I  pound  of  dried  flour  and  I  pound  of  butter- 
Break  the  butter  with  your  fingers  and  mix  with  the  flour 
as  fine  as  possible,  and  then  with  a  little  cold  water  mix  into 
a  tolerably  stiff  paste.  Gently  roll  it,  passing  the  roller  in 
one  direction  only — from  you.  After  this  lightly  fold  it 
over,  and  set  it  aside  for  15  minutes  in  a  cool  place  ;  then 
repeat  the  rolling  in  the  same  manner,  and  let  it  stand 


1 76 

* : ; 

Tart  Shells.  PIES.  Mince. 


another  15  minutes.  This  is  to  be  repeated  once  more.  Be 
sure  to  handle  it  as  little  as  possible,  and  to  keep  it  cool. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

GRAHAM  PIE-CRUST. 

Graham  flour  mixed  with  cream,  and  salt  added,  makes  a 
healthful  pie-paste — that  is,  if  pie-crust  can  be  healthy. 
The  cream  answers  for  both  shortening  and  wetting. 

TART  SHELLS. 

Line  patty-pans  with  a  rich  pie-crust,  rolled  thin.  Or, 
roll  paste  thin  and  cut  with  a  large-sized  biscuit-cutter. 
Then  cut  another  one  the  same  size,  and  cut  from  the  center 
of  this  with  a  cup  or  cutter  smaller  than  the  biscuit-cutter. 
Take  the  ring  thus  made  and  lay  it  on  the  first  one  and 
bake.  These  shells  are  used  for  tarts,  oyster  patties,  etc.. 
and  are  a  very  nice  addition  to  the  tea  table.  For  tarts,  any 
kind  of  jelly  or  jam  may  be  used,  filling  just  before  serving. 

MINCE  PIES. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Currey,  Detroit,  Mich. 

4  pounds  lean  meat,  chopped  fine  after  being  cooked  tender. 
3  pounds  chopped  suet.  I  lemon  chopped — no  seeds. 
8  pounds  chopped  apples.           J  ounce  mace. 

2  pounds  currants.  I  tablespoon  cinnamon. 

2  pounds  raisins.  I  tablespoon  allspice. 

1  pound  citron.  I  tablespoon  cloves. 
6  pounds  brown  sugar.  2  tablespoons  salt. 

Wet  with  boiled  cider  and  cook  together. 

Mince  Pics. 

2  pounds  lean  fresh  beef,  after     2  pounds  currants. 

it  is  chopped.  2\  pounds  brown  sugar. 

I  pound  beef  suet.  2  tablespoons  cinnamon. 

5  pounds  apples  chopped  fine.     I  tablespoon  cloves. 

I  pound  raisins  chopped.  i  tablespoon  allspice. 

I  pound  whole  raisins.  i  tablespoon  fine  salt, 

i  pound  Sultana  raisins.  i  nutmeg. 

\  pound   citron    or    candied     i  quart  cider,  or  more. 

lemon  peel  sliced  thin.  I  pint  molasses. 

Mix  and  cook  till  the  apple  is  done. 


177 

Summer  Mince.  PIES.  Sweet  Potato. 

SUMMER  MINCE  PIES. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 

4  Boston  crackers  soaked  soft  in  cold  water. 

1  cup  molasses. 
•    \  cup  vinegar. 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 
I  teaspoon  cloves. 

i  teaspoon  allspice. 
Raisins,  currants,  butter  or  suet. 
Sweeten  to  taste.     This  makes  3  pies. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Remove  the  seeds  of  the  pumpkin,  cut  into  small  pieces, 
steam  till  tender,  then  remove  peel  and  mash  fine  with  Vic- 
tor vegetable  masher.  Or,  cut  up,  peel,  and  boil  in  a  very 
little  water  till  well  done  and  dry.  After  mashing,  to  each 
quart  add  I  quart  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  I  teaspoon  each  of 
cinnamon,  ginger,  and  salt,  4  tablespoons  corn  starch  or  2 
eggs.  Bake  in  a  custard-pan  with  an  under  crust. 

GRATED  PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Mrs.  Harvey  Roe,  Mantorville,  Minnesota. 

One  cup  grated  raw  pumpkin,  I  egg,  pinch  of  salt,  \  cup 
sugar,  spice  to  suit  the  taste.  Put  these  ingredients  mixed 
together  in  I  round  pie-tin  lined  with  paste.  Add  milk  to 
fill  the  tin. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

Boil  and  sift  a  good  dry  squash,  thin  it  with  boiling  milk 
until  about  the  consistency  of  thick  milk  porridge.  To 
every  quart  of  this,  add  3  eggs,  2  great  spoons  melted  but- 
ter, nutmeg,  or  ginger,  if  you  prefer,  and  sweeten  quite 
sweet  with  sugar.  Bake  in  a  deep  plate  with  an  under  crust. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE. 

Aunt  Sally  DeBell,  Mt.  Carmel,  Ky. 

Boil  or  stew  the  potatoes  till  tender.     Put  a  layer  of  slices 
on  the  bottom  cr\ist,     Sprinkle  with  2  tablespoons  sugar,  i 
-23 


Pine-Apple.  PIES.  Banana. 

of  jelly,  i  of  butter,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  I  teaspoon  flour 
made  smooth  with  2  tablespoons  water.  Cover  with  upper 
crust, 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE  WITH  ONE  CRUST. 
Boil  potatoes  tender.  Line  a  pie-dish  with  gooct  pie- 
paste,  slice  potatoes  to  cover  the  bottom,  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  a  light  sprinkling  of  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  ;  then 
another  similar  layer  with  bits  of  butter  dotted  over.  Fill 
the  dish  with  milk,  flavor  with  nutmeg,  and  bake  with  one 

crust. 

PINE-APPLE  PIE. 

1  small  pine-apple,  grated.          I  cup  sweet  cream. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  ^  CUP  sugar. 

3  yolks  of  eggs. 

Mix  well  and  bake  in  under  crust  only.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth  with  i  cup  fine  sugar  for  a  meringue. 

BANANA  PIE. 

Make  nearly  like  first  recipe  for  sweet  potato  pie.  Slice 
the  bananas  raw,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  butter,  J  teaspoon  all- 
spice and  boiled  cider  or  jelly.  Cover  with  crust  and  bake. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  I  lemon. 
I  cup  sugar. 
I  cup  water. 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch  or  2  of  flour. 

2  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten. 

Mix  all  together  and  cook  in  a  basin  over  water.  Line  a 
pie-plate  with  paste,  put  in  the  mixture  and  bake  till  the 
crust  is  done.  Then  whip  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  spread  over  and  brown  in  the 

oven. 

Lemon  Pie. 

2  lemons.  2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

4  eggs-  2  cups  sugar. 

2  cups  water.  3  soda  crackers  rolled. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  both  lemons,  and  grate  the  rind   of 


179 

Lemon.  PIES.  Orange. 

one.  Mix  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  other  ingredients. 
Cover  the  pan  with  crust,  pour  the  mixture  in  and  bake  till 
the  crust  is  done.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in 
four  spoons  sugar,  put  it  on  the  pie  and  set  it  in  the  oven 
for  a  delicate  browning.  This  is  for  2  pies. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  TWO  CRUSTS. 
For  3  pies  take  3  lemons,  grated  rind  and  juice,  3  table- 
spoons sugar,  same  of  flour,  3  eggs,  i  pint  of  syrup,  mix  well. 

LEMON-POTATO  PIE. 

I  raw  potato,  grated.  I  cup  sugar, 

i  lemon,  grated,  with  juice.        i  cup  water. 
Bake  with  2  crusts. 

LEMON-MOLASSES  PIE. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Jones,  Nashville,  Tenn. 

1  pint  best  syrup. 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

Put  into  a  bowl,  and  dredge  in  a  teaspoon  of  flour.  Then 
grate  the  yellow  rind  of  2  small  lemons  and  squeeze  out  the 
juice.  Stir  together.  Line  a  pie-tin  with  paste.  Put  a 
layer  of  the  mixture  in,  then  a  layer  of  crust  as  thin  as  a 
wafer  ;  then  another  layer,  until  there  are  3  layers  of  crust  ; 
then  the  mixture  and  a  top  crust.  This  makes  2  deep, 
round  pies. 

LEMON-TAPIOCA  PIE. 

Mrs.  T.  S.  Bidwell,  Chicago. 

2  tablespoons  tapioca  soaked  in 

i  cup  water  over  night. 

i  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind. 

i  cup  sugar. 

i  egg.     Bake  in  2  crusts. 

ORANGE  PIE. 

i  orange,  juice,  grated  rind.        i  cup  water  ;  yolk  of  I  egg 

i  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

Bake  with  one  crust,  and  frost  with  white  of  egg  and 
tablespoon  sugar. 


i  So 

Service- Berry.  PIES.  Cranberry. 


Orange  Pie. 
Mrs.    M.    A.  Smith. 

One  large  or  two  small  oranges,  grated  rind  and  juice, 
yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  with  I  cup  sugar.  Mix  this  with 
orange  and  add  I  cup  milk  or  cream.  Bake  till  the  pie-paste 
is  done.  Beat  the  whites  with  3  tablespoons  sugar  and  put 
on  top  and  brown. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 

One  cup  raisins — seeded.  Stew  until  soft.  Thicken  with 
flour,  like  gravy.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  and  bake  with  two 
crusts. 

Raisin  Pie. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Jones,  Nashville,  Tenn. 

I  cup  layer  raisins,  stoned — left  whole. 

I  whole  egg  and  yolk  of  another. 

|  cup  brown  sugar,  beaten  with  the  eggs. 
Lay  the  raisins  on  the  crust,  dredge  with  flour,  and  pour 
the  mixture  over.     Bake  in  one  crust.     Then  take  the  re- 
maining white  with  2  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar  for  icing. 
Brown  lightly.     More  eggs  will  improve  it. 

SERVICE-BERRY   PIE. 

Mr.  Wm.  H.  Rochester,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

To  \  gallon  service-berries  put  a  pint  of  gooseberries  to 
give  a  tart  taste.  Stew  them  together  in  water,  but  they  do 
not  require  any  sugar.  Bake  with  2  crusts. 

CRANBERRY  TART  PIE. 

Stew  cranberries — allowing  a  pint  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of 
water  to  a  quart  of  berries.  Line  a  pie-plate  with  paste. 
Fill  with  the  stewed  berries.  Put  narrow  strips  of  pie-crust 
across  the  top.  A  quart  should  make  2  good  pies.  Make 
with  full  upper  crust,  if  preferred. 

CURRANT  PIE. 

This  fruit  makes  the  best  pie  when  green.  The  main 
thing  is  to  put  in  sugar  enough.  Dredge  with  a  small  hand- 


Currant  PIES.  Tomato. 

fit!  of  flour  and   put   in  about  2  tablespoons  water.     Bake 
with  2  crusts,  15  or  20  minutes. 

ENGLISH  CURRANT  PIE. 

Take  large  English  currants,  cleanse  carefully,  and  stew 
in  plenty  of  water.  Sweeten,  and  thicken  with  flour  till  of 
the  consistency  of  rich  cream.  Bake  with  2  crusts.  A  very 
good  pie  in  the  spring  when  pie  material  is  scarce. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PIE. 

This  pie  is  improved  by  mixing  currants  with  the  berries. 
It  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  above.  If  no  currants 
are  at  hand,  put  in  a  little  vinegar. 

CHERRY   PIE. 

Of  course  it  is  nicer  when  eating  to  have  the  cherries  pit- 
ted, but  either  way  is  admissible.  Put  in  the  pie-plate 
plenty  of  fruit,  sweeten  well,  and  sprinkle  with  flour.  No 
water  is  needed.  The  cherries  will  cook  by  the  time  the 
crust  is  done. 

CHERRY  PIE  WITH  ONE  CRUST. 

Cook  pitted  cherries  and  chopped  apples,  equal  quantities, 
together.  Sweeten  to  suit  the  taste.  Add  a  sprinkling  of 
flour,  a  bit  of  ginger,  and  allow  J  teaspoon  cinnamon  to 
each  pie.  Cook  without  upper  crust. 

PEACH   PIE. 

Cut  the  pared  peaches  and  spread  the  same  as  apples. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  flour.  If  the  peaches  are 
very  juicy,  no  water  will  be  required.  Bake  with  two 
crusts. 

TOMATO  PIE. 

Fill  a  pie-plate  lined  with  crust  with  sliced  ripe  tomatoes. 
Sprinkle  I  tablespoon  flour  over  it,  2  teaspoons  lemon  ex- 
tract, and  2  cups  white  sugar.  Cover  with  top  crust. 
Half-ripe  tomatoes,  pared  and  sliced,  and  seasoned  with 


1 82 

Pie- Plant.  PIES.  Dried  App-e. 

ginger,   nutmeg,   and  cinnamon,   are   used  for  pies    during 
scarcity  of  pie  material. 

PIE-PLANT  PIE  WITH  ONE  CRUST, 
i  cup  stewed  pie-plant.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

Yolk  of  i  egg.  i  cup  sugar. 

Bake  in  one  crust.  Frost  with  white  of  egg  and  \  table- 
spoon sugar. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

Grandma  Graves,  Ypsilanti,  Mich. 

Peel  the  stalks.  Cut  into  ^  inch  pieces.  Pour  boiling 
water  over  and  let  remain  until  cold.  This  takes  the  bitter 
sour  from  the  rhubarb,  thus  saving  much  sugar.  When  cool, 
strew  lavishly  with  sugar,  a  little  butter  and  a  sprinkling  of 
flour.  Half  an  orange  improves  the  flavor.  Bake  with  2 
crusts. 

EMANCIPATION  PIE. 

Mrs.  A.  S.   J. 

For  2  pies  take  2  lemons,  squeeze  out  juice  ;  remove  seeds. 
Chop  rind  and  pulp  very  fine  with  I  cup  seeded  raisins. 
Add  juice  and  J  cup  sugar  and  i  cup  water.  Spread  a  layer 
of  this  mixture  on  the  bottom  crust,  then  roll  out  a  very  thin 
crust  and  lay  on.  Then  another  layer  of  the  mixture,  then 
the  top  crust. 

[We  think  a  little  thickening  improves  it. — ED.] 

FRIED  PIES. 

Make  a  good  biscuit  dough,  roll  thin  about  the  size  of  a 
pie-plate,  put  in  a  spoon  of  nice  dried  apple  or  other  sauce, 
turn  the  crust  over,  cut  out  with  the  edge  of  a  saucer  to 
shape  it  nicely,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  like  doughnuts. 

DRIED  APPLE   PIE. 

Soak  the  apples  until  quite  soft.  Then  stew  till  soft 
enough  to  go  through  a  colander.  Season  with  lemon,  add 
sugar  to  taste,  and  i  beaten  egg  for  every  2  pies,  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  butter  to  each  pie.  A  tablespoon  of  cream  may 
be  added.  Mix  and  bake  with  2  crusts. 


Apple.  PIES.  Buttermilk. 

GRANDMA  GRAVES'  APPLE  PIE. 
Four  or  5  tart  apples  peeled  and  quartered.  Slice  small 
and  lay  evenly  around  on  the  pie-paste.  Take  I  cup  sugar, 
small  pieces  of  butter,  I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  and  a  sprink- 
ling of  flour  over  the  whole,  and  2  tablespoons  water. 
Cover  with  rich  paste  and  bake  slowly.  Green  apples 
should  be  stewed  before  making  into  pies. 

SWEET  APPLE  PIE. 
i^  large  sweet  apples,  grated. 

1  egg- 

I  cup  sweet  cream. 

Milk  to  fill  the  pie-plate.     Bake  in  one  crust. 

APPLE-CUSTARD  PIE. 

One  cup  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  3  or  4  grated  apples,  small 
spoon  of  melted  butter,  \  cup  sugar,  nutmeg  to  flavor,  small 
pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  one  crust.  Make  a  frosting  with  the 
whites  of  eggs  and  2  spoons  sugar.  Brown  delicately. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Three  eggs,  not  quite  a  pint  of  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  3 
tablespoons  sugar,  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  large  pie- 
plate  with  one  crust.  The  whites  may  be  left  out  for  frost- 
ing, if  preferred. 

CUSTARD  PIE  WITHOUT  CRUST. 

Three  eggs,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  ^  cup  Graham  flour,  salt 
and  flavor.  The  flour  settles  to  the  bottom  and  forms  a 
good  crust.  Fill  the  pie-pan  with  milk,  mixing  a  part  of  it 
with  the  other  ingredients  first. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE. 

Mrs.  F.  W.  Westgate,  Uniondale,  Pa. 

I  cup  sugar.  I  egg. 

r  J  cups  buttermilk.  I  teaspoon  butter. 

I  tablespoon  flour. 
Stir  well  together.     Flavor  with  nutmeg,  bake  in  one  crust. 


1 84 

One  Egg.  PlES.  Cream. 

ONE  EGG  PIE. 

|  cup  sugar.  I  egg. 

1 1  cups  sweet  milk.  Pinch  of  salt. 

I  tablespoon  melted  butter.        I  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
Bake  with  one  crust. 

TEXAS  CREAM  PIE. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Leffet,  Dallas,  Texas. 

Line  a  pie-plate  with  pie-paste.     Then  put 
A  layer  of  butter. 
A  layer  of  sugar. 
A  layer  of  flour. 
A  layer  of  sugar. 

Pour  milk  over  and  bake. 

CREAM  PIE. 

Mrs.  George  Trevett,  Chicago. 

1  pint  milk,  pinch  of  salt. 

2  scant  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

3  yolks  of  eggs. 
J  cup  sugar. 

\  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Cook  over  water.  Bake  the  crust  alone  in  a  pie-plate, 
then  pour  the  mixture  in,  and  frost  with  whites  of  3  eggs 
and  3  tablespoons  sugar  and  J  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
Brown  lightly  in  the  oven.  5  eggs  will  make  2  pies. 

STRAWBERRY   CREAM  PIE. 

Line  ak  dish  with  paste  and  fill  with  fresh  strawberries 
made  very  sweet  with  powdered  sugar.  Cover  with  paste 
rather  thick,  but  do  not  pinch  down  at  the  edges.  When 
done,  lift  the  top  crust  and  pour  over  the  berries  the  follow- 
ing, after  it  is  perfectly  cold:  , 

I  small  cup  milk  (or  part  cream)  heated  to  boiling. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  and  stirred  lightly  into  the 

boiling  milk. 

I  tablespoon  white  sugar. 
^  teaspoon  corn  starch,  wet  with  cold  milk. 
Stir  all  together  and  cook  3  minutes.     Replace  the  top 
crust,  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top  before  serving. 


185 

Cracker.  PIES.  Amber. 

CRACKER  PIE. 
2  soda  crackers  broken  in  pieces. 
\  cup  water. 

I  scant  teaspoon  tartaric  acid. 
I  cup  sugar.     Bake  in  2  crusts. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 
I  cup  sugar.  I  egg. 

i^  cups  sweet  milk.  I  cocoanut,  grated. 

\  cup  sweet  cream  (or  I  tablespoon  melted  butter). 
Baked  with  one  crust.     Desiccated  cocoanut  can  be  used. 

Cocoanut  Pie. 

Mrs.  C.  M,  Coombs,  Bowling   Green,  Kentucky. 

For  2  pies,  take 

i  cocoanut,  grated.  2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

I  cup  sugar.  I  tablespoon  butter. 

\  cup  sweet  milk. 

Bake  in  i  crust.  If  preferred,  make  a  meringue  of  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  sugar  for  each  pie. 

HICKORY-NUT  PIE. 

1  cup  meats,  chopped  fine.         3  cups  milk. 

2  eggs-  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Bake  with  one  crust.  Butternuts  may  be  used,  but  are  so 
rich  that  their  use  is  not  recommended. 

VINEGAR  PIE. 

Make  a  rich  pie-paste.  On  the  bottom  crust  of  a  round 
plate  sprinkle  i  tablespoon  flour  and  I  cup  light  brown 
sugar.  On  this  another  spoon  of  flour.  Pour  over  gradu- 
ally \  cup  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  \  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Cover  with  upper  crust. 

AMBER  PIE— VERY  RICH. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Harvey,  Bowling  Green,  Kentucky. 

i  cup  butter, 
i  cup  eggs  (about  6). 
i  cup  jelly. 
Beat  together  to  a  cream  and  bake  in  one  crust.     For  the 

*24 


1 86 

Jelly.  PIES.  Wine- Plant. 

meringue,  take  white  of  i  egg  and   i  cup  pulverized  sugar. 
Beat  to  a  froth  and  spread  over  the  top  and  brown  lightly. 

JELLY  PIE. 

Mrs.  Judge  Pillsbury,  Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

3  eg£s>  beat  whites  and  yolks     i  tablespoon  butter. 

separately.  3  tablespoons  cream. 

5  tablespoons  jelly.  i  nutmeg. 

Sweeten  to  taste.  It  will  depend  upon  the  acidity  of  the 
jelly.  Bake  in  one  crust. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE. 

Mrs.  Fred  Dresel,  Maysville,  Kentucky. 

1  cup  sugar.  i  cup  butter,  cream  together. 

Add  2  beaten  eggs. 

Bake  in  one  crust  and  put  a  pie-tin  over  the  pie  while 
baking.  It  is  nice  to  take  extra  whites  of  2  eggs  with  4 
tablespoons  sugar  for  a  meringue. 

WINE-PLANT  AND  RAISIN  PIE. 

Cut  the  wine-plant  in  small  pieces.  Use  an  equal  bulk  of 
raisins.  Sweeten  generously  ;  sprinkle  a  small  tablespoon  of 
flour  over  each  pie,  and  a  tablespoon  of  water.  Bake  in 

2  crusts. 

CORN  STARCH  PIE. 

Mrs.  Fannie  H.  Bower. 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch.          2  tablespoons  sugar. 

i  pint  milk — pinch  of  salt.          i  egg — i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  over  water,  stir  in  the  flour  made  smooth 
with  part  of  the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  the  beaten  yolk  and 
the  salt  and  flavoring.  Bake  the  crust  alone,  then  fill  \vith 
the  mixture.  Beat  the  white  of  egg  with  2  tablespp-sms 
sugar  and  spread  over  the  top.  Brown  lightly. 


NDER  this  head,  I  give  APPLE  DESSERTS, 
ROLY  POLY,  TARTS,  PANDOWDY,  PLUM 
DUFF,  CRACKER  DESSERT,  SALLY  LUMN, 
DESSERT  CAKE,  POPOVERS,  as  well  as 
DUMPLINGS  AND  SHORTCAKES.  Dump- 
lings may  be  baked,  boiled,  or  steamed, 
and  be  made  with  either  dried  or  green  fruits.  Steaming 
has  superseded  boiling  to  a  great  extent.  It  is  easier, 
which  is  a  great  argument  in  its  favor. 

APPLE  COBBLER. 

Fill  an  earthen  pudding-dish  |  full  of  tart,  juicy  apples, 
peeled,  quartered,  and  cored,  and  the  quarters  cut  in  two. 
Put  in  a  cup  of  water,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Cover  with 
a  paste  of  rich  cream  biscuit  dough,  twice  as  thick  as  pie- 
paste.  Gash  it  and  bake  nearly  I  hour.  Serve  either  warm 
or  cold,  and  from  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked.  Peach  cob- 
blers are  made  similarly. 

APPLE  PUFFS. 

1  pint  of  milk,  or  part  milk  and  part  water. 

2  beaten  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  salt. 

Make  a  batter  rather  thicker  than  griddle  cakes.  If  water 
is  used,  put  in  a  spoon  of  melted  butter.  Pare,  core,  and 
chop  apples  fine.  Half  fill  buttered  cups  with  the  chopped 
apple,  pour  in  the  batter  till  f  full.  Set  in  steamer,  and 
steam  about  I  hour.  Serve  hot  with  cream  and  sugar  fla- 
vored, or  liquid  sauce. 

APPLE  POT  PIE. 
Fill  a  basin  \  full  of  tart  apples,  pared,  quartered,  and 


i88 

Baked  Apple  DUMPLINGS.  Brother  Jonathan. 

cored.  Pour  on  boiling  water  and  place  on  stove  to  cook. 
When  they  begin  to  boil,  put  over  them  a  crust  made  as  for 
biscuit,  cover  closely  and  cook  about  20  minutes.  Eat  with 
sugar  and  cream  or  hard  pudding-sauce. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  the  apples.  Make  a  rich,  stiff, 
biscuit  dough.  Roll  and  cut  in  strips,  and  take  4  pieces  of 
apple  for  each  dumpling  and  wrap  2  or  3  strips  of  dough 
around  them,  pinching  the  ends  together.  Put  a  quart  of 
water  in  a  pudding  or  baking7dish,  and  I  cup  of  sugar, 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Let  it  get  to  boiling  on  top  of 
the  stove.  Then  place  the  dumplings  in  and  bake  till  crust 
and  apples  are  done. 

BOILED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Take  I  quart  flour,  I  tablespoon  lard,  the  same  of  butter, 
I  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  2  teaspoons 
cream  tartar  sifted  through  the  flour;  a  little  salt,  enough 
milk  to  make  the  flour  into  a  soft  dough  ;  Roll  out  the 
paste  less  than  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  in  squares  and  place 
in  the  center  of  each  an  apple,  pared  and  cored  ;  bring  the 
corners  together  ;  place  each  dumpling  in  a  small,  square, 
floured  cloth  ;  tie  the  top,  leaving  room  enough  to  swell ; 
boil  50  minutes. 

BIRD'S  NEST. 

Anna  Peterson. 

Pare  and  slice  good  cooking  apples  till  a  2-quart  basin  is 
|  full.  Sprinkle  with  J  cup  sugar,  and  pour  over  ^  cup  of 
water.  Make  a  batter  of  I  \  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  I  tablespoon 
butter,  1 1  tablespoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
and  flour  to  thicken  like  muffins.  Pour  over  and  bake 
slowly  in  a  steady  oven.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

BROTHER  JONATHAN. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  J. 

To  I  pint  buttermilk  add  I  teaspoon  soda,  little  salt,  and 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Have  ready  some  tart  apples 


Rolls.  DUMPLINGS.  Roly  Poly. 

sliced  thin.  Mix  in  the  batter.  Grease  pudding-dish  and 
pour  the  mixture  in.  Bake  slowly  or  steam.  Sweet  milk 
may  be  used  with  cream  of  tartar  and  soda.  Eat  warm, 
with  sweetened  cream  or  any  rich  sauce. 

DRIED  APPLE  ROLLS. 

Stew  until  done.  Rub  through  a  colander  or  coarse  sieve. 
Sweeten.  Roll  out  pie-crust  very  thinjn  squares  the  size  of 
a  pie-plate.  Spread  them  with  the  apple  and  fold  over  twice. 
Bake  brown.  Cut  slices  off  of  the  end,  lay  on  a  dessert- 
plate,  and  serve  with  amber  pudding-sauce. 

ORANGE   TARTS. 

Mrs.  Bettie  Miller,  Cincinnati,  O. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  an  orange,  add  the  juice  and 
grated  peel  of  J  lemon,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  2  eggs,  except  I  white.  Bake  in  tart  shells. 

PEACH    PANDOWDY. 

Mrs.  E.    J.  Wilber,  Chicago. 

One  quart  canned  peaches.  Pour  into  a  2-quart  basin. 
Make  a  batter  of  I  cup  milk,  I  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
melted,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  to  make  thick 
enough  to  roll  out.  Cover  over  the  peaches.  Put  paper 
over.  Bake  till  the  crust  is  done.  Eat  with  vanilla  sauce. 

PLUM  DUFF. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  B. 

I  cup  butter.  I  large  cup  raisins. 

I  J. cups  sugar.  3  eggs, 

i  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  Steam  3  or  4  hours. 

ROLY  POLY. 

Mrs.  Martha  Dimmitt,  Maysville,  Ky. 

1  pint  mashed  potatoes  made  very  fine  and  smooth. 

2  pints  flour.  I  cup  butter. 

i  pint  buttermilk.  I  teaspoon  soda. 

Use  more  buttermilk  if 


190 

Royal  Dessert.  DUMPLINGS.  Popovers. 

necessary  to  make  a  dough.  Spread  with  dried  currants, 
cherries,  or  any  preserved  fruit.  Tie  in  a  cloth  and  immerse 
in  boiling  water  and  boil  2  hours.  Serve  with  vanilla  sauce, 
or  any  other  preferred. 

ROYAL  DESSERT. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Curtis,  Seattle,  Washington  Ty. 

Put  |  pound  butter  crackers  in  a  deep  dish  and  pour  over 
them  the  vanilla  pudding-sauce.  Let  stand  about  five  min- 
utes before  serving.  It  is  recommended  by  some  to  steam 
the  crackers  first. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Mrs.  Dr.  B.  M.  Baker,  Chicago. 

One  cup  sugar  well  beaten  with  3  eggs,  I  teaspoon  of 
cream  of  tartar  added  to  I  cup  of  milk  and  mixed  with  sugar 
and  eggs.  Then  stir  in  flour  to  a  thin  batter,  and  add  ^  tea- 
spoon soda,  little  salt,  and  stir  briskly,  and  put  in  a  buttered 
pan  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  with  vinegar  sauce. 

CHICAGO  DESSERT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  O.  Blackman,  Chicago. 
I  cup  sugar. 
i^  cups  flour. 

3  eggs  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately. 
I  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  two  cakes  and  put  together  with  the  following 
cream  : 

cup  milk  ;  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add 
tablespoon  corn  starch  wet  with  2  tablespoons  of  the 
milk. 

beaten  egg. 
tablespoon  sugar, 
teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Serve  with  sauce. 

POPOVEkS. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  3  eggs,  9  tablespoons  sifted  flour, 
teaspoon  salt.  Pour  the  milk  upon  the  flour  scalding  hot, 
and  stir  until  free  from  lumps.  When  cool,  add  the  eggs, 


Orange.  SHORTCAKES.  Cranberry. 


beaten  to  a  foam.  Bake  J  hour  in  buttered  cups,  and  take 
from  the  oven  immediately.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar, 
or  sauce. 

ORANGE    SHORTCAKE. 

Sprinkle  sugar  over  6  peeled  and  sliced  oranges  for  2  or  3 
hours  before  using.  One  quart  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cold  water.  Bake,  split  open 
and  put  orange  between.  Eat  with  sweetened  cream.  Any 
fruit,  either  fresh,  stewed,  or  canned,  may  be  used  for  short- 
cake. 

HARD  WINTER  SHORTCAKE. 

In  the  absence  of  fruit  of  all  kinds,  make  a  rich  shortcake 
and  pour  over  it  sweetened  cream.  In  many  new  farming 
districts  there  is  no  fruit  whatever,  and  it  requires  a  great 
deal  of  ingenuity  to  get  up  desserts. 

LEMON  SHORTCAKE. 

Mrs.  F.  W.  Westgate,  Uniondale,  Penn. 

i  lemon. 
I  cup  sugar. 
i  cup  cream. 

Grate  the  outside  rind  of  the  lemon,  add  the  juice,  stir 
together  with  the  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  6  hours.  Prepare 
the  shortcake  the  same  as  for  berries.  When  ready,  add  the 
cream  to  the  sugar  and  lemon,  and  spread  between  the 
layers. 

PEACH  SHORTCAKE. 

1  quart  flour.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  teaspoons   baking   powder.     2  cups  sweet  milk. 

Mix,  divide  in  halves,  roll  out,  bake  in  2  round  tins. 
When  done  divide  the  cakes,  butter  generously,  cover  with 
peaches  sliced  and  sugared.  Butter  the  upper  crust,  put 
over,  and  serve  hot.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  if  you 
have  it. 

CRANBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Mrs.  Kate  Peckham,  Dallas,  Texas. 

Make  the  cake  the  same  as  strawberry  shortcake.     Cool 


192 

Strawberry.  SHORTCAKES.  Brown  Betty. 

the  berries.  Make  very  sweet  and  juicy.  Spread  thick  on 
the  cake  layers,  after  they  are  baked.  Leave  the  juice  until 
ready  to  serve.  With  a  rich  crust  you  will  have  a  delicious 
shortcake. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Make  a  very  rich  biscuit  dough  ;  roll  out  ^  inch  thick,  and 
put  on  a  round  pie-tin.  Spread  over  it  butter  or  lard  and  a 
light  sprinkling  of  flour.  Lay  another  crust  over  this  ; 
bake.  When  done,  remove  the  upper  crust  and  spread  on  a 
thick  layer  of  strawberries  and  sugar  after  buttering  the 
crust  well.  Lay  on  the  upper.  Butter  that  and  spread  over 
more  berries.  If  any  juice  is  left,  pour  it  on.  This  will  be 
found  easier  than  splitting  a  thick  shortcake.  And  it  is  bet- 
ter to  make  two  or  more  small  cakes  than  one  large  one,  for 
the  reason  that  they  can  be  prepared  fresh  for  late  comers, 
and  for  a  large  table  full  may  be  dished  out  by  more  than 
one  person.  If  strawberries  are  sandy  they  must  be  put  in 
a  colander  and  rinsed.  Then  put  in  a  bowl,  sprinkled 
with  sugar,  for  an  hour  or  two  before  using.  Mash  them  if 

large. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

Peel,  cut  up,  and  stew  some  nice,  tart,  juicy  apples. 
Sweeten  well,  and  put  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish  in  alter- 
nate layers  with  cracker  crumbs.  Add  a  sprinkling  of  cin- 
namon and  small  lumps  of  butter.  Make  the  top  layer, 
crumbs.  Bake,  and  serve  hot,  with  cream  and  sugar. 


rRlTTERS  are  a  nice  addition  to  the  breakfast, 
lunch  or  tea  table.  Plain  fritters  and  fruit 
fritters  are  often  used  as  a  dessert  at  dinner. 
They  may  be  served  with  powdered  sugar 
dusted  over  them,  or  with  maple  syrup,  or 
any  liquid  pudding  sauce.  If  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  fat  is  right  the  fritter  will  rise  quickly  to  the 
surface  and  begin  to  brown  immediately. 

Fritter  batter  may  be  as  thin  as  griddle  cakes.  Of  course, 
they  will  cook  if  the  batter  is  thicker,  but  will  take  longer 
to  cook  in  the  center,  so  a  rather  thin  batter  is  preferable. 
If  a  very  juicy  fruit  is  used,  a  little  more  flour  should  be 
added.  Baking  powder  is  scarcely  needed  if  the  eggs  are 
well  beaten  and  the  whites  added  the  last  thing.  They  are 
dropped  by  spoonsful  into  smoking  hot  fat,  and  fried  like 
doughnuts. 

PLAIN  FRITTERS. 

2  eggs.  1 3  cups  flour  with 

i  cup  milk — pinch  of  salt.  i  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Serve  with  powdered  sugar,  maple  syrup,  or  vinegar  sauce. 

ORANGE  FRITTERS. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  cups— scant — flour  sifted  with 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder — pinch  of  salt. 

2  oranges,  juice,  and  pulp. 

Shred  the  oranges  in  small  pieces,  and  grate  the  rind  of 
half  of  one.  Dust  with  pulverized  sugar.  The  above  wiU 
serve  8  persons. 

*25 


194 

Apple.  FRITTERS.  Pine-Apple. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

i  cup  milk.  i  heaping  cup  flour. 

I  full  cup  peeled  chopped  ap-     2  eggs — pinch  of  salt. 
pies.  i  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

LEMON  FRITTERS, 
i  cup  milk. 
i  beaten  egg. 
ij  cups  flour. 

Add  juice  and  pulp  of  i  lemon.  Fry  in  hot  lard  by 
spoonsful,  like  doughnuts.  Serve  with  silver  sauce,  to  which 
add  the  grated  peel  of  half  the  lemon. 

GRAPE  FRITTERS. 

One  heaping  cup  flour,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons 
salad  oil,  or  melted  butter,  pinch  of  spice,  and  salt,  i  cup 
water.  When  mixed  smoothly,  add  the  beaten  whites. 
Dip  little  clusters  of  grapes  in  the  batter  and  fry.  Take  up 
and  lay  on  brown  paper  for  a  minute,  to  free  them  from  fat. 
Dust  with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold,  as 
a  dessert. 

BANANA  FRITTERS. 

One  heaping  cup  flour,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  2 
tablespoons  melted  lard  or  butter,  i  cup  water.  Add  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in  lightly  2  or  3 
bananas  cut  in  thin  strips,  and  fry.  Dust  with  powdered 
sugar.  The  above  will  make  a  dessert  for  8  persons. 

PINE-APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Either  fresh  or  canned  pine-apple  may  be  used.  Sprinkle 
the  slices  (they  should  be  thin)  with  about  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  and  let  stand  3  or  4  hours.  Make  a  batter  as  fol- 
lows :  Stir  a  teaspoon  of  melted  butter  into  2  tablespoons 
flour,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  warm  milk  to  make  a  batter 
that  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs.  Beat  well ;  then  add  the  well-beaten  whites.  Stir  in 
lightly,  and  mix  the  fruit  into  the  batter.  Fry  the  fritters 


195 

Cream.  FRITTERS.  Potato. 


piece  by  piece  in  hot  lard.     They  will  cook  in  7  or  8  min- 
utes.    Lay  on  blotting  paper  when  done.     Sift  sugar  over 

and  serve  hot. 

CREAM  FRITTERS. 

Melt  I  tablespoon  butter  in  i  pint  boiling  water.  Wet  up 
a  pint  of  sifted  flour  with  cold  water  as  for  starch,  and  stir 
into  the  hot  water,  beating  well  to  make  it  very  smooth. 
Take  from  stove  and  stir  in  6  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little  at  a 
time,  and  beat  till  very  light  and  very  smooth.  Have  smok- 
ing hot  lard  in  a  kettle  or  deep  skillet  ;  drop  the  mixture  in 
by  spoonsful  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Eat  with  molasses  sauce. 

CORN   FRITTERS. 

I  quart  grated  green  corn. 
3  eggs. 

J  cup  flour  ;  salt  and  pepper. 

Add  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs  the  last  thing.  Drop 
by  small  spoonsful  into  the  fat. 

RICE   FRITTERS. 

One  or  more  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice,  ^  pint  milk,  2  or  3 
eggs,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  with  good  spoonful  baking 
powder.  Fry  in  hot  drippings.  Hominy  may  be  similarly 
prepared.  Eat  with  butter,  syrup,  or  jam. 

POTATO  FRITTERS. 

To  a  saucer  full  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  add  2  beaten 
eggs,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  4  tablespoons  flour. 
Mix,  and  add  sweet  milk  till  of  the  consistency  of  thick  pan- 
cake batter.  Bake  in  small  cakes  on  a  hot  griddle  in  fresh 
hot  lard.  Nice  with  meat  of  any  kind,  and  to  be  eaten  with 
gravy. 

GRATED  RAW  POTATO  FRITTERS. 

ij  dozen  large  potatoes,  peeled  and  grated. 
3  eggs,  salt  to  taste. 
3  tablespoons  flour. 
Mix  well  and  drop  into  hot  lard  and  fry  until  done. 


196 

Tomato.  FRITTERS.  Clam. 

TOMATO  FRITTERS. 
i  quart  stewed  tomatoes.  i  egg. 

i  teaspoon  soda. 

Flour  to  thicken  like  griddle  cakes.  Fry  in  a  skillet  in 
hot  lard. 

CYMLING    FRITTERS. 

After  boiling  and  reducing  to  a  fine  pulp,  mix  with  beaten 
egg,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  ;  form  into  cakes 
and  fry  a  light  brown  in  butter  or  drippings. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS, 

Strain  the  liquor  of  the  oysters.  For  a  can  of  oysters,  use 
a  cup  of  milk,  the  oyster  liquor,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  cups 
of  flour,  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  and  \  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Mix  the  batter  well.  Stir  the  oysters  in  and  drop  the 
mixture  by  spoonsful  into  hot  fat;  and  fry. 

CLAM  FRITTERS  WITHOUT  EGG. 

Mrs.  Emma  Graves,  Seattle,  Washington  Ty. 

i  dozen  clams  chopped  ;  add  their  liquor. 
i  tea-cup  flour. 
i  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
\  teaspoon  pepper. 
^  teaspoon  salt. 
Drop  from  a  spoon  in  hot  meat  drippings. 

CLAM   FRITTERS. 

Take  25  clams  and  stew  them  in  their  own  liquor,  salt 
and  pepper  them  slightly,  cook  for  15  minutes  slowly,  drain 
the  clams,  chopping  them  as  fine  as  possible,  removing  all 
the  hard  portions  first.  Make  a  batter  of  4  eggs,  with  I  cup 
of  sifted  flour,  and  2  cups  milk  ;  get  it  as  smooth  as  possible, 
mix  the  clams  with  it,  use  butter  for  frying.  A  small  addi- 
tion of  parsley  is  excellent. 


ELL-BUTTERED  must  be  the  pudding-molds 
or  basins.  Boiled  puddings  should  be  put 
into  boiling  water  and  the  water  kept 
boiling  all  the  time.  Have  the  water 
come  up  as  high  as  the  pudding  in  the 
mold.  Fill  up  with  boiling  water  as  fast 
as  it  evaporates.  If  a  bag  is  used,  wring  it  out  of  hot  water, 
and  flour  it  well  ;  and  when  done,  dip  into  cold  water,  and 
the  pudding  will  come  out  easily.  The  same  may  be  done 
with  a  mold.  It  takes  nearly  as  long  again  to  boil  or 
steam  as  it  does  to  bake. 

If  necessary  to  wash  raisins  for  puddings,  it  should  be 
done  the  day  before,  so  as  to  dry  them  thoroughly.  They 
are  sure  to  make  the  pudding  heavy  if  put  in  wet.  It  is 
better  to  cleanse  currants  as  soon  as  bought  that  they  may 
be  in  readiness  for  use.  They  need  several  washings  in  a 
colander,  and  then  should  be  drained  and  dried.  The  taste 
of  the  person,  and  the  character  of  the  pudding,  must  deter- 
mine whether  to  use  hard  sauce  or  liquid  sauce. 

BEE-HIVE  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 

Make  a  hard  pudding-sauce,  and  when  beaten  very  light, 
set  aside  three  or  four  tablespoons  in  a  plate.  To  the  re- 
mainder, add  cherry,  currant,  or  cranberry  juice,  or  jelly,  or 
chocolate.  Beat  the  coloring  matter  in  well,  and  "shape  in 
a  conical  form.  Roll  half  sheet  of  stiff  note-paper  into  a 
long  narrow  funnel.  Tie  a  string  around  it  to  keep  it  in 
shape  and  fill  with  the  uncolored  sauce.  Squeeze  it  out 
gently,  commencing  at  the  base  of  the  cone  and  winding 
about  to  the  top,  leaving  alternate  light  and  dark  stripes. 


198  

Hard  Gold.  PUDDING-SAUCES.  Vanilla. 

HARD  GOLD  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 
4  tablespoons  nice  brown  sugar. 

Cream  together  and  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  £ 
teaspoon  vanilla. 

HARD  SILVER  SAUCE. 
\  cup  butter  creamed  with 
i  cup  white  sugar.  Add 
£- teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

CR-EAM  SAUCE. 
£•  cup  butter. 

i  cup  sugar  creamed  together.     Add 
i  cup  rich,  sweet  cream. 

Stir  well  together  and  flavor  with  J  teaspoon  each  vanilla 
and  lemon.  Put  on  ice  before  using. 

CREAM    AND  SUGAR. 

If  cream  and  sugar  are  .served  as  a  sauce,  it  is  better  to 
pass  each  separately,  as  the  tastes  of  people  differ  in  regard 
to  sweets,  some  liking  more  than  others. 

SOUR  CREAM, 

Nicely  sweetened  and  flavored,  is  served  with  some  pud- 
dings. 

MILK  SAUCE. 

i  cup  sugar.  2  eggs. 

|  cup  milk.  J  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  and  add  to  the  milk 
heated  to  boiling.  Simmer  about  5  minutes ;  add  the 
vanilla,  and  just  before  serving  add  the  beaten  whites. 

VANILLA  SAUCE. 

J  cup  butter.  2  cups  water. 

i  cup  sugar.  I  large  tablespoon  flour. 

i  J  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Make  the  flour  smooth  with  part  of  the  water,  and  cook 
all  together  over  hot  water,  adding  the  flavoring  last. 


199 

Lemon.  PUDDING-SAUCES.  Butter. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

|  cup  butter. 

i^  cups  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 

Beat  together  and  pour  over  it  I  pint  boiling  water.  Stir 
to  a  smooth  liquid  and  add  I  lemon  cut  in  very  thin  slices, 
without  peeling.  Remove  seeds. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Juice  of  two  oranges. 
^  cup  sugar — or  more  if  liked. 
2  cups  cream  or  milk. 

Good  for  blanc-mange,  corn  starch,  or  any  pudding  re- 
quiring cold  sauce. 

GOLDEN  SAUCE. 

1  tablespoon  flour  mixed  with 

4  tablespoons  nice  brown  sugar.  Stir  with 

2  cups  milk.     Cook  and  add 

4  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

SILVER  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  butter  and 

I  cup  white  sugar.     Cream  together. 

Add  the  beaten  white  of  I  egg  and 

^  teaspoon  lemon.  Just  before  serving  add 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

EGG  SAUCE. 

2  cups  sugar. 

2  eggs.     Beat  well  together,  add 
6  tablespoons  scalding  hot  milk. 
Flavor  with  I  teaspoon  vanilla.     Serve  immediately. 

BUTTER   SAUCE. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Beat  to  a  cream,  add  2  beaten  eggs  and  thin  with  boiling 
water. 


2OO 

Transparent.  PUDDING-SAUCES.  Moiasses. 

TRANSPARENT   SAUCE. 

2  cups  sugar., 
i  cup  water. 

Boil  till  it  thickens,  then  add  2  tablespoons  butter,  and   I 
teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

AMBER  SAUCE. 

folks  5  eggs. 
I  cup  sugar. 
A  cup  butter. 

Beat  all  together  very  light  and  add  slowly  2  cups  boil- 
ing water.     Flavor  with  I  teaspoon  cinnamon  extract. 

JELLY    SAUCE. 

Miss  Juliet  Cordon. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  i  teaspoon  corn  starch. 

I  tablespoon  jelly.  i  pint  water. 

Cook  just  enough  to  incorporate  together  and  leave  no 

raw  taste  of  the  starch.  Serve  with  cabinet  pudding. 

STRAWBERRY  PUDDING-SAUCE. 

^  cup  butter. 
i^  cups  sugar. 

i  pint  mashed  strawberries. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  ;  then  stir  in  the  berries. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  SAUCE. 

i  cup  maple  syrup. 

i  teaspoon  flour,  creamed  with 

^  cup  butter. 

1  scant  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Simmer  the  syrup  and  skim  it ;  add  the  flour  and  butter 
with  nutmeg.     Boil  up  and  serve. 

MOLASSES  SAUCE. 

2  cups  molasses,  and 

i  tablespoon  butter,  boiled  together. 

Flavor  with    ^    teaspoon    each    ginger    and    cinnamon. 
Serve  hot. 


2OI 

Cider  Sauce.  PUDDINGS.  Plum  Pudding. 

CIDER  SAUCE. 

One  tablespoon  flour  and  2  tablespoons  butter,  creamea  ; 
i  cup  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  boiling  water,  4  tablespoons  boiled 
cider.  Simmer  together,  stirring  constantly,  and  serve  hot. 

VINEGAR  SAUCE. 

i  cup  brown  sugar.  J  teaspoon  salt, 

i  cup  water.  6  drops  extract  of  lemon, 

i  tablespoon  butter.  i  tablespoon  vinegar, 

i  tablespoon  flour.      Boil  together  enough  to  cook  the  flour. 

OLD  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING, 
i  pound  suet  chopped  fine. 
|  pound  bread  crumbs, 
pound  sugar, 
pound  flour — scant/ 
pound  rasins,  stoned, 
pound  currants. 

pound  candied  lemon,  orange,  citron  mixed, 
quart  milk. 
6  eggs. 

Use  dry  bread,  and  rub  the  inside  through  a  colander. 
Weigh  after  it  is  rubbed  through.  Mix  suet,  bread,  and 
sugar ;  add  flour,  fruit,  and  peel,  shredded  fine.  Beat  the 
eggs,  mix  with  the  milk,  and  add  last.  I  fill  several  small 
basins,  tie  cloths  over  the  tops,  and  boil  in  a  wash-boiler  10 
hours.  In  England,  I  am  told,  they  often  cook  them  longer 
still.  Any  puddings  left  over  should  be  hung  up  in  a  cloth 
and  may  be  boiled  again,  and  will  be  as  good  as  new  the 
next  Fourth  of  July. 

APPLE  PLUM  PUDDING. 
5  large  chopped  apples. 
i  cup  raisins. 
i  cup  sugar. 
i  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  flour  with  i  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
J  cup  butter. 

2  eggs,  pinch  of  salt. 

Bake  i  hour.     Serve  with  hard  silver  sauce. 

*26 


2O2 

Apple.  PUDDINGS.  Washday. 


APPLE  AND  BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

One  pint  milk.  When  scalding  hot,  stir  in  J  pint  Indian 
meal  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Take  6  medium  sized  sweet 
apples,  pare  and  cut  in  pieces,  and  stir  in  this  mixture. 
Bake  3  hours.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream  and  nutmeg. 

APPLE-TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Clinton  Butterfield,  Denver,  Col. 

One  cup  tapioca  soaked  2  hours  in  6  cups  water.  Add  6 
chopped  apples  and  I  cup  sugar.  Bake  four  hours  slowly. 
Eat  warm  or  cold,  with  cream. 

APPLE-SAGO  PUDDING. 

For  a  2-quart  pudding-dish,  take  I  cup  sago  and  put  into 
a  quart  of  cold  water  in  a  basin.  Let  heat  and  cook  gradu- 
ally, adding  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  hot  water  if  it  seems  too  dry. 
In  the  meantime,  pare  and  core  apples  to  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  pudding-dish,  fill  the  holes  with  sugar,  and  season 
with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Put  a  cup  of  water  in  the  dish 
and  bake  till  partly  done  ;  then  take  the  dish  out,  pour  the 
sago  over,  re*urn  and  bake  till  well  done.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream, 

APPLE-SUET   PUDDING. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  New,  Madison,  Wis. 

I  cup  chopped  apples,  dried  or  green. 
I  cup  chopped  suet. 

1  cup  flour. 

2  cups  meal. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 
I  cup  molasses. 

i  teaspoon  soda.     Pinch  of  salt. 
Stear    3i  Or4  hours.     Serve  with  any  liquid  sauce. 

BOILED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Take  6  nice  apples,  peel  and  slice  into  a  pudding-dish. 
Make  a  batter  of  3  cups  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2  beaten  eggs ; 
pf'  ch  of  salt.  Pour  over  the  apples,  and  boil  2  hours. 

WASHDAY    PUDDING. 
Put  a  layer  of  bread  in  a  pudding-dish,  with  little  lumps 


203 

Bird's  Nest.  PUDDINGS.  Lemon. 

of  butter  over  them.  Then  a  layer  of  chopped  apple  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Another  layer  of  crumbs  and  another 
of  apple.  So  on,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  a  cup  of 
water,  and  bake  till  the  apple  is  done.  Eat  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

BIRD'S  NEST   PUDDING. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 

Three  pints  boiling  milk,  6  crackers  rolled,  i  cup  raisins  ; 
when  cool,  add  4  well-beaten  eggs  and  I  cup  sugar.  Pour 
the  mixture  over  4  apples  pared  and  cored  with  corer.  Bake 
45  minutes.  Serve  with  liquid  sauce. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Six  oranges,  peeled,  sliced  thin,  and  sprinkled  with  sugar. 
Make  a  boiled  custard  of  i  pint  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  pinch 
of  salt,  i  tablespoon  corn  starch,  and  3  tablespoons  sugar. 
When  cool,  pour  over  the  oranges.  Whip  the  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  \  cup  sugar,  and  put  on  the  top. 
Set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  water  and  put  in  a  hot  oven  a  few 
seconds  till  the  frosting  is  browned.  To  be  eaten  cold. 

ORANGE  PUDDING— COOKED. 

Two  oranges,  juice  of  both  and  grated  peel  of  one  ;  juice 
of  i  lemon  ;  \  pound  lady  fingers,  stale  and  crumbed,  2 
cups  milk,  4  eggs,  \  cup  sugar,  I  tablespoon  corn  starch 
wet  with  water,  i  tablespoon  butter,  melted.  Soak  the 
crumbs  in  the  milk  (raw),  whip  up  light  and  add  the  eggs 
and  sugar,  already  beaten  to  a  cream  with  the  batter. 
Next  the  corn  starch,  and  when  the  mold  is  buttered  and 
water  boiling  hard,  stir  in  the  juice  and  peel  of  the  fruit. 
Do  this  quickly,  and  plunge  the  mold  directly  into  the  hot 
water.  Boil  i  hour ;  turn  out  and  eat  with  rich  sauce. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

One  scant  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  cream  together,  add 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  6  yolks  of  eggs,  and  6 
small  Boston  crackers  in  I  pint  milk.  Bake.  Make  a 


204 

Blackberry.  PUDDINGS.  Whortleberry. 

meringue   of  6  whites  beaten  with  6  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar.     Brown.     Serve  without  sauce. 

LEMON  PUDDING  IN  PASTRY. 
2  lemons. 
|  cup  butter. 

2  coffee  cups  sugar. 

6  eggs,  leave  out  whites  of  two. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  eggs  and 
grated  lemon  peel.  Stir  in  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  and 
lastly  the  2  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  rich 
pastry. 

BLACKBERRY-JAM    PUDDING. 

|  cup  butter,  beaten  very  light. 

I  cup  sugar. 

ij  cups  flour. 

i  cup  blackberry  jam. 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

3  tablespoons  sour  cream. 
i  teaspoon  soda. 

i  nutmeg. 
Bake,  and  eat  with  sauce. 

BLACKBERRY-JUICE  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Dolly  Lee,  Rectorville,  Ky. 

i  cup  juice  from  a  can  of  blackberries, 
ij  cups  flour. 
i  cup  sugar. 
|  cup  butter. 

4  eggs. 

3  tablespoons  sweet  cream, 
i  teaspoon  soda. 
Bake  in  pan  and  eat  with  sauce. 

WHORTLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

i  pint  molasses. 

i  teaspoon   saleratus    in    a   tablespoon  boiling 
water.     Let   cool. 

i  tablespoon  cinnamon  or  ginger,  as  preferred, 
i  nutmeg  grated. 
2\  cups  flour. 
At   the   last,    add    3    pints   whortleberries,    washed    and 


Citron.  PUDDINGS.  Pine-Applo. 

drained  well.     Steam  it  4  hours  or  even  longer.     Use  more 
flour  if  the  batter  is  not  stiff  enough.     Serve  with  sauce. 

CITRON  PUDDING, 
i  cup  brown  sugar. 
^  cup  butter, 
i  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  egg. 

2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
J  pound  sliced  citron. 

Sift  baking  powder  into  the  flour  ;  beat  sugar  and  butter 
together  ;  add  the  milk,  flour,  citron,  I  teaspoon  lemon,  put 
into  a  2-quart  basin,  and  steam  3  hours.  Serve  with  trans- 
parent sauce. 

GINGER  PUDDING, 
i  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  molasses. 
|  cup  butter. 

^  cup  sour  cream. 
J  teaspoon  soda. 

2  tablespoons  ginger. 
Flour  as  for  cake  batter. 

Bake.     Eat  with  any  sauce  desired. 

JELLY  PUDDING. 

Miss  Lida  Berry,  Maysville,  Ky. 

4  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar. 

i  cup  butter. 

i  cup  cream. 

I  cup  jelly. 

Beat  yolks  with  i  cup  sugar,  and  butter  with  the  other 
cup  sugar,  stir  together,  and  add  cream  and  whites  well- 
beaten  ;  2  teaspoons  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  rich  pastry. 

PINE-APPLE  PUDDING. 

Author's   Recipe. 

Put  i  fresh  pine-apple,  or  a  two-pound  can,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  in  a  pudding-dish,  strew  plentifully  with  sugar  and 
let  it  stand  several  hours.  Take  i  quart  milk,  put  the 


206 

Cocoanut.  PUDDINGS.  Com  Starch. 

greater  part  in  a  pail  and  set  into  boiling  water.  Use  the 
remainder  of  the  quart  to  wet  up  6  tablespoons  loose  sifted 
flour.  Mix  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs,  \  cup  sugar, 
and  \  saltspoon  salt.  Stir  into  the  scalding  milk.  When 
cooked,  remove,  and  when  cool,  or  nearly  so,  pour  over  the 
fruit.  Make  a  frosting  of  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  with  3 
tablespoons  sugar.  Put  over  the  the  top  and  brown  in  a 
quick  oven. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

1  quart  milk. 

2  teaspoons — even — corn  starch. 

3  eggs. 

I  cup  sugar. 

i  cup  cocoanut — grated  or  desiccated. 

i  teaspoon  butter. 

i  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Scald  the  milk.  Stir  in  the  corn  starch  with  2  tablespoons 
of  the  milk.  Add  the  other  ingredients  and  bake  \  hour,  in 
a  pudding-dish. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING— VERY  RICH. 

Mrs.  M.   J.  Hale. 

i  cocoanut. 

I  quart  milk. 

Whites  of  8  eggs. 

\\  cups  sugar. 

Grate  the  cocoanut.  Mix  with  the  sugar,  milk,  and 
beaten  whites.  Let  stand  \  hour  before  baking.  Then 
bake,  and  watch  that  it  does  not  whey.  Use  the  milk  of 
the  nut  also.  Frost  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  with  2  table- 
spoons sugar  extra.  Serve  cold. 

BAKED  CORN  STARCH  PUDDING— RICH. 

3  pints  milk. 

7  tablespoons  corn  starch  ;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

\  cup  sugar. 

Yolks  10  eggs. 

Scald  i  quart  of  the  milk.  Stir  into  it  the  corn  starch 
wet  up  with  a  pint  of  cold  milk.  Cook  3  or  4  minutes ;  let 
cool.  Add  the  well-beaten  yolks  and  the  sugar.  Bake  30 


207 

Indian-Rice.  PUDDINGS.  Rice. 

or  40  minutes  in  a  pudding-dish.  Serve  hot.  Make  this 
pudding  after  the  cocoanut  pudding  has  been  made.  The 
yolks  will  keep  for  a  day  or  two  in  a  cool  place. 

PLAIN  CORN  STARCH  PUDDING. 

cup  corn  starch  wet  with 
cup  water. 

beaten  egg  ;  pinch  of  salt.     Stir  this  into 
quart  of  boiling  milk.     Add 
teaspoon  extract  desired  for  flavoring. 
Let  cook  3  or  4  minutes.     Eat  with  liquid  sauce,  hot,  or 
is  good  cold  with  milk  and  sugar. 

INDIAN-RICE   PUDDING. 
J  cup  rice,  washed. 
3^  tablespoons  corn-meal. 
I  quart  milk. 
^  cup  brown  sugar. 
I  teaspoon  butter. 

J  teaspoon  each  ginger,  allspice,  and  cinnamon 
Put  the  quart  of  milk  on  the  stove,  and  when  it  comes  tt> 
a  boil,  pour  in  the  corn-meal  wet  with    I    cup   cold    milk. 
Let  boil  up  well,  add  the  other  ingredients,  put  into  a  pud- 
ding-dish, and  bake  2  hours,  stirring  from  the  bottom,  every 
J  hour.     Be  very  careful  not  to  scorch  the  milk  if  it  is  put 
directly  over  the  fire.     A  double  boiler  is  safer. 
KISS  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  B 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk  ;  3  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  ; 
i  cup  of  sugar ;  5  yolks  of  eggs  ;  salt  ;  flavor.  Boil  the 
milk,  and  stir  in  the  starch  wet  with  cold  milk  ;  add  the 
sugar  and  eggs,  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Make  a  frost- 
ing of  the  whites,  with  a  little  more  sugar,  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 

RICE  PUDDING  WITHOUT  EGGS. 
J  cup  rice. 
3  pints  milk. 
^  cup  sugar. 

I  teaspoon  butter  ;  pinch  of  salt. 
Stir  frequently  while  baking.     It  should  be  of  the  consis- 


208 

Tapioca.  PUDDINGS.  Lemon-Tapioca. 

tence  of  cream  when  done.     Bake  2  or  3  hours.     Raisins 
may  be  used,  if  liked.     Eat  without  sauce. 

TAPIOCA    PUDDING. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  J. 

Put  I  cup  tapioca  in  I  quart  milk  for  2  hours.  Then  add 
\  cup  sugar,  I  cup  raisins,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
a  little  salt.  Bake  slowly  I  hour.  Take  whites,  beat  to  a 
stiff  froth  ;  add  2  tablespoons  sugar  ;  lemon  flavor.  Spread 
over  and  brown.  No  sauce  required. 

CREAM-TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Packard,  Oak  Park,  111. 

Soak  3  tablespoons  tapioca  in  water  over  night.  Put  it  in 
a  quart  of  boiling  milk.  Cook  |  hour.  Beat  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
with  i  cup  sugar,  add  3  tablespoons  cocoanut  ;  stir  in  and 
boil  10  minutes  longer.  Pour  into  pudding-dish.  Beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  3  tablespoons  sugar. 
Pour  over  the  top.  Then  sprinkle  cocoanut  over  all.  Set 
in  oven  and  brown.  Serve  without  sauce. 

INDIAN-TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 
\  cup  tapioca  soaked  over  night  in 
2  cups  water.     In  the  morning  scald 
2  cups  milk  and  stir  in  it 
3^  tablespoons  corn-meal  wet  with 
\  cup  milk.     Add  to  this 
\  cup  molasses,  the  tapioca, 
I  teaspoon  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
\  teaspoon  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon,  allspice. 
Mix  well  together.     Stir  into  the  mixture  I  cup  cold  milk 
and  bake  2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.     Use  other  flavor- 
ing if  preferred. 

LEMON-TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

One  cup  tapioca  soaked  in  4  cups  cold  water  3  hours  ;  I 
lemon.  Take  half  of  the  lemon,  grate  the  rind  and  squeeze 
the  juice  into  the  tapioca.  Cut  the  other  half — after  peel- 
ing and  removing  seeds  —into  small  bits,  and  scatter  through. 
Bake  |  hour.  Serve-  hot,  with  cream  and  sugar. 


209 

Graham.  PUDDINGS.  Blue-Grass. 

ORANGE-TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

One  cup  tapioca  soaked  in  4  cups  water  2  or  3  hours  ;  3 
oranges — peeled  and  every  seed  removed  very  carefully. 
Put  alternate  layers  of  the  soaked  tapioca  and  slices  of 
orange  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  with  I  cup  sugar.  Bake 
45  minutes.  Serve  hot  or  cold,  with  cream. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  F.  McKercher,  Chicago. 

cup  molasses, 
cup  sour  milk, 
cup  fruit. 

cups  Graham  flour, 
teaspoon  salt, 
teaspoon  soda. 
^  teaspoon  cloves. 
I  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Steam  2  hours  and  put  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  any  sauce  preferred. 

ELECTRIC  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Galloway,  Marseilles,  111. 

I  cup  Graham  flour. 
I  cup  corn-meal. 
i  cup  white  flour. 
i  cup  cream. 
^  cup  molasses. 

i  teaspoon  soda.     Steam  3  hours. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  with  liquid  sauce. 

BLUE-GRASS   PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Bettie  Reese,  North  Fork,  Ky. 

5  eggs>  beaten  separately. 

cup  sugar. 

cup  molasses. 

cup  butter. 
3  cups  flour. 

cup  buttermilk. 

pound  raisins,  cut  up. 
J  teaspoon  soda. 
Spice,  if   desired.      Grease   the   pan   well,  and  steam  2\ 
hours.     Serve  with  lemon   sauce. 


210 

Rolled.  PUDDINGS.  Cabinet. 

ROLLED  PUDDING. 

One  pint  flour,  2  small  teaspoons  baking  powder,  salt, 
milk  to  make  soft  enough  to  handle.  Roll  thin  ;  spread  all 
over  it  fresh  cranberries,  candied  cherries,  or  any  sauce. 
Roll  up  like  a  jelly-roll.  Lay  in  steamer  and  steam  I  hour. 
Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

PUDDING   L' ELEGANTE. 

Mrs.  Jeanie  J.   H.  Norton,  Middletown  Springs,  Vt. 

Place  in  a  mold  a  layer  of  slices  of  bread  or  cake.  Cover 
this  with  jam  of  any  kind.  Then  another  layer  of  bread 
and  jam  until  the  mold  is  f  full.  Pour  over  this  a  custard 
made  of  2  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  J  cup 
sugar.  Boil  2  hours.  Lemon  sauce. 

BAKING-DAY  PUDDING. 

Grandma  Graves. 

On  baking  day,  take  ij  cups  dough,  work  in  a  little 
shortening,  place  in  a  basin.  Let  it  get  light  and  steam  I 
hour.  If  the  basin  has  no  tube,  put  an  inverted  cup  in  the 
center.  Eat  with  vanilla  sauce. 

BUCKEYE  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Oliver  P.  Arnold,  White  Pigeon,  Mich. 

I  cup  raisins. 
i^  cups  molasses. 
i  cup  warm  water. 
2j  cups  flour. 

Dessert-spoon  soda — yolks  2  eggs. 
Steam  2  hours.     Silver  sauce. 

CABINET  PUDDING. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Use  a  smooth,  plain  mold  with  straight  sides.  Butter  it 
thickly  with  cold  butter.  Stick  all  around  it,  on  the  sides 
and  bottom,  small  slices  of  French  candied  fruit,  if  wished 
very  fine,  or  raisins  and  currants  for  a  plainer  pudding. 
They  may  be  put  on  in  rings,  stars,  or  any  fancy  shapes. 
Half  a  pound  is  sufficient  for  a  3-pint  mold.  Place  slices  of 


211 

Cottage.  PUDDINGS.  Puff  Pudding. 

cake,  sponge  is  best,  on  the  layers  of  fruit  ;  then  fill  the 
mold  with  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  cake.  Pour  over  all 
a  simple  custard  made  of  6  eggs,  pint  of  milk,  and  4  table- 
spoons sugar.  Steam  the  pudding,  either  in  a  kettle  of 
water  over  the  fire,  allowing  the  water  to  come  half  way  up 
the  side,  or  in  a  pan  of  water  set  in  the  oven.  Cook  about 
45  minutes  ;  but  test  it  by  running  a  knife  down  the  center. 
If  no  liquid  adheres,  it  is  done.  Bread  may  be  used  instead 
of  cake.  Serve  with  jelly  sauce. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  a  little 
salt,  I  teaspoon  soda,  2  cream  of  tartar.  Bake  quickly  and 
eat  hot  with  rich  sauce. 

BATTER  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Julia  B.    DeLon,    Chicago. 

Seven  eggs,  11  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  I  quart  milk, 
i  teaspoon  vanilla,  I  teaspoon  salt.  Bake  and  serve  with 

butter  sauce. 

FRENCH  PUDDING. 

1  cup  sweet  cream. 

3  eggs  »  pinch  of  salt. 

2  cups  flour. 

I  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  a  square  tin.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce.  In 
time  of  ripe  currants,  stir  a  cup  of  them  into  the  sauce. 

1-2-3-4  PUDDING. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

I  cup  sour  milk. 
J  teaspoon  soda. 
Bake  in  a  pan  and  serve  with  butter  sauce. 

PUFF  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Dr.  B.  M.  Baker,  Chicago. 

One  quart  milk,  6  eggs,  6  tablespoons  flour,  salt.  Bake 
2O  minutes.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 


212 

Queen.  PUDDINGS.  Chocolate. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 
I  pint  fine  grated  bread  crumbs. 
I  quart  milk. 
I  cup  sugar. 
Yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten. 
Grated  rind  of  I  lemon. 
Piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Bake  until  done,  but  not  watery.  Whip  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  stiff,  beat  in  a  teacup  of  sugar,  in  which  has  been 
strained  the  juice  of  lemon.  Spread  over  the  pudding  a 
layer  of  jelly  ;  pour  the  whites  of  the  eggs  over  this  ;  re- 
place in  the  oven  ;  brown  slightly.  To  be  eaten  cold  with- 
out sauce. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk,  I  pint  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs,  pinch  of 
salt,  i  tablespoon  butter.  Bake  about  20  minutes.  Serve 
with  hard  silver  sauce,  unless  it  is  preferred  to  sweeten  the 
pudding  before  baking. 

BOILED  BREAD  PUDDING. 

Take  pieces  of  dry  bread,  about  a  quart,  soak  in  warm 
water  till  soft.  Add  3  beaten  eggs,  I  cup  of  sugar,  I  cup  of 
raisins.  Mix  well.  Boil  in  a  bag  or  pudding-mold  an  hour 
or  two.  Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

CRUMB   PUDDING. 

Mrs.  L.  Currey,  Detroit,  Michigan. 

One  quart  bread  crumbs,  softened  in  boiling  water,  I  cup 
chopped  suet,  I  cup  currants,  or  any  other  fruit,  ^  cup 
molasses,  2  eggs,  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about 
J  hour.  Serve  with  any  kind  of  sauce. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

I  quart  milk. 

14  even  tablespoons  grated  bread  crumbs. 
12  tablespoons  grated  chocolate. 
6  eggs. 

I  tablespoon  vanilla  (less  if  very  strong). 
I  cup  sugar. 
B'at  4  yolks  and  2  whole  eggs  very  light  with  the  sugar. 


213 

Napoleon  PUDDINGS.  Almond. 

Scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  bread  and  chocolate. 
Add  the  eggs,  sugar  and  vanilla,  and  more  sugar  if  desired 
sweeter.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish  and  bake  I 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cold  pour  over  the  4  whites 
well  beaten  with  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  I  tea- 
spoon vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING— PLAIN. 

3  tablespoons  grated  chocolate, 
i  quart  sweet  milk. 

^  cup  sugar. 

4  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

Scald  the  milk  over  hot  water.  Stir  in  the  corn  starch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk  with  the  chocolate.  Add  the 
sugar  and  stir  until  cooked.  Eat  with  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

NAPOLEON  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Elliott  Durand,  Chicago. 

Line  a  deep  plate  with  rich  paste.  Cover  with  a  thick 
layer  of  preserves,  covered  with  a  tablespoon  of  chopped 
almonds  and  half  as  much  candied  lemon  peel.  Beat  well, 
separately,  4  yolks  and  2  whites  of  eggs,  add  a  coffee-cup  of 
sugar,  J  pound  of  butter  melted.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pour 
over  the  preserves.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  with 
a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  2  tablespoons 
sugar.  Brown  delicately. 

ALMOND  PUDDING. 
|  pound  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  chopped 

fine. 

I  teaspoon  rose  water. 
6  eggs  well  beaten. 

4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  mixed  with  eggs. 
I  quart  sweet  milk. 

3  tablespoons  powdered  crackers. 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
4  ounces  citron  shredded  fine. 

Add  almonds  after  the  other  ingredients  are  mixed  to- 
gether. Line  a  pudding-dish  with  rich  pie-paste.  Pour  the 
mixture  in  and  bake  till  done.  Serve  cold.  Make  at  least 
12  hours  before  serving,  if  possible. 


214 

Transparent.  PUDDINGS.  Snow. 

TRANSPARENT    PUDDINGS. 

Miss  Olive  Parker,  Tollesboro,  Ky. 

4  yolks  of  eggs,  well-beaten. 
I  cup  sugar. 
I  cup  butter. 
|  nutmeg  grated. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  ;  add  the  yolks.  Bake  in 
tart  shells.  Will  make  about  3  dozen.  Beat  the  whites 
with  4  tablespoons  sugar  and  I  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  and 
put  on  as  a  meringue.  Brown  lightly  in  a  quick  oven.  A 
cup  of  cream  is  used  with  the  above  ingredients  when 
wanted  richer. 

SAGO   PUDDING. 

Four  tablespoons  sago  soaked  in  water  all  night.  In  the 
morning  add  3  cups  milk,  4  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  I  small  cup 
sugar.  Lemon  peel,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  either,  or  all. 
Bake  slowly. 

CASSAVA  PUDDING. 

One  pint  milk.  Stir  in  J  cup  cassava,  J  cup  cocoanut,  2 
eggs,  i  tablespoon  butter  ;  salt,  sugar,  and  vanilla  to  taste. 
Cook  like  boiled  custard.  When  done,  put  it  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served,  and  beat  the  white  of  I  egg  to  a 
stiff  froth  with  I  tablespoon  sugar,  and  lay  over  the  top 
smoothly,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Eat  warm  or  cold,  with 

jelly. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Half  box  of  gelatine,  whites  of  3  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  pint 
of  hot  water,  juice  i  lemon.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  the  water; 
then  add  lemon-juice  and  sugar  ;  mix  well,  and  strain 
through  flannel  into  a  large  mixing  bowl.  When  cool 
enough  to  begin  to  thicken  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  egg  beater,  and  beat  until  it  is 
thick  and  snow-white  all  through.  It  will  take  a  half  hour 
or  longer,  and  the  colder  the  better.  Tnrn  into  molds  which 
have  been  dipped  in  cold  water,  or  pile  in  pyramid  form  in 
the  center  of  a  glass  dish,  leaving  a  space  all  around.  Keep 
on  ice  till  the  next  day.  Make  a  soft  custard  with  a  pint  of 


215 

Minute  PUDDINGS.  Indian. 

milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  4  tablespoons  sugar, 
little  grated  lemon  rind.  The  custard  should  be  very  cold, 
and  if  the  pudding  is  in  a  pyramid,  pour  the  custard  around 
it  (not  over  it).  If  in  a  mold,  serve  the  custard  from  a 
pitcher. 

MINUTE  PUDDING. 

Put  i  quart  milk  over  the  fire,  with  a  bit  of  lemon  peel 
or  essence  of  lemon  ;  let  it  boil  ;  then  having  made  a  large 
cup  of  flour  into  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk,  stir 
by  degrees  into  the  boiling  milk  ;  let  it  boil,  stirring  all  the 
time  until  thick  ;  then  dip  a  bowl  in  cold  water,  pour  the 
pudding  in,  and  let  it  cool  a  little  before  turning  it  out.  Eat 
with  sweetened  cream.  The  juice  of  a  lemon  is  an  improve- 
ment. 

BAKED  SUET  PUDDING. 

3  cups  milk,  scald  and  pour  over 

5  tablespoons  corn-meal,  add 

i  cup  molasses. 

J  cup  chopped  suet. 

\  nutmeg  grated. 

i  teaspoon  ginger,  little  salt. 

Butter  a  pudding-dish,  pour  in  i  cup  cold  milk,  then  the 
mixture  and  bake  2  hours. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING, 
i  cup  corn-meal,  stirred  slowly  into 
i  quart  boiling  milk.     Let  cool  ;    add 
I  cup  sugar. 
\  cup  flour. 

i  tablespoon  butter  ;  3  eggs, 
i  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  cloves. 
Half  a  cup  of  cold  milk  may  be  added  also.     Bake  3  or  4 
hours. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING,  WITH  FRUIT. 

Mrs.  Marrion  Clinton,  Menasha,  Wis. 

§  cup  corn-meal,  stirred  into 
3  pints  scalding  milk.     Let  partly  cool,  and  add 
i  beaten  egg. 

i  cup  raisins,  and  butter  size  of  an  egg. 
Spice  or  ginger  added  if  liked.     Bake  till  it  wheys. 


216 

Indian.  PUDDINGS.  Suef. 

BOILED  INDIAN  SUET  PUDDING, 

Author's   Recipe. 

J  pound  beef  suet  chopped  fine, 
ij  cups  corn-meal. 
ij  cups  hot  water. 
2  large  spoons  flour. 
I  cup  brown  sugar. 

^  teaspoon  each  of  saleratus,  and  salt. 
Steam  4  hours.     Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

BOILED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 
I  pint  sweet  milk. 
I  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  and  salt. 
I  tablespoon  wheat  flour. 
10  tablespoons  corn-meal. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 

2  tablespoons  brown  sugar. 
i  tablespoon  molasses. 

4  tablespoons  dried  berries. 
Boil  3  hours. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

Author's   Recipe. 

I  cup  fine  chopped  suet, 
i  cup  brown  sugar. 
I  cup  hot  water. 

1  cup  raisins  chopped. 

2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

i  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  nutmeg. 
Steam  2  to  5  hours.     The  longer  the  better.     Serve  with 
lemon  sauce. 

SUET  PUDDING  WITH  SOUR  MILK, 
i  cup  chopped  suet, 
i  cup  molasses. 
i  cup  chopped  raisins, 
i  cup  sour  milk. 

3  cups  flour. 

i  teaspoon  soda,  salt. 

Steam  3  hours.     Vanilla  sauce.     A  cup  of  chopped  apples 
is  sometimes  added  to  this  pudding. 


PLATE  I. — See  GARNISHES  and  DESCRIPTION  OF  COLORED  PLATES. 


CAKE — Ornamental  Frosting. 


FRUIT, 


tPERGNE. 


DESIGNED  AND  ENGRAVED  EXPRESSLY  FOR  MRS.  OWENS'  COOK  BOOK  BY  BAKER  &  OCX 


TIM  EL  Y  HINTS.     LOAF  C  A  KES.     LA  YER  CA  KES. 

COOKIES.    DOUGHNUTS.     GINGER  CAKES. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 


TIMELY 


BUTTER.    EGGS.    SUGAR.    FLOUR.   FRUIT    COLORING. 

CAKE-  PANS.  HEATING  THE  OVEN.   DIRECTIONS  FOR  MIXING. 

EXTRACTS'     FROSTING.      OTHER  SUGGESTIONS. 

VERY  delicate  cake  should  be  made  of  but- 
ter freed  from  salt.  Wash  it  in  very  cold 
water,  then  press  in  a  cloth  till  the  moist- 
ure is  out.  "Cooking  butter"  is  gener- 
ally a  rancid  commodity,  unfit  for  cook- 
ing in  any  shape.  Those  who  use  cream- 
ery for  the  table,  can  procure  dairy  butter  several  cents  a 
pound  cheaper  that  is  good  and  sweet,  and  will  do  nicely 
for  cooking.  In  fact,  there  are  those  who  prefer  it  for  the 
table.  Butter  for  cake  should  be  warmed  sufficiently 
to  soften  it.  Do  not  melt  it,  but  set  it  in  a  warm  room  be- 

forehand. 

EGGS. 

Fresh  eggs  are  as  essential  as  good  butter.  "  A  middling 
good  egg"  is  generally  a  bad  one.  There  are  eggs,  however, 
which  smell  agreeably,  that  will  not  make  frosting,  but  will 
beat  up  light  and  sweet  in  a  cake  batter. 

To  separate  the  white  and  yolk  of  an  egg,  break  the  egg 

*2-8 


218 

Sugar  CAKE.  Flour. 

carefully  into  a  dish.  Then  with  the  fingers  pick  the  yolk 
up  and  remove  to  another  dish,  letting  the  white  drip  be- 
tween the  fingers.  This  is  quicker  than  to  divide  the  egg 
and  pour  the  yolk  from  one  half  to  the  other. 

In  breaking  eggs  always  break  each  one  in  a  dish  by  it- 
self, else  by  a  little  careless  handling  a  poor  one  might  be 
put  with  good  ones,  thus  spoiling  them  all.  Strain  the 
beaten  yolks  for  very  nice  cake.  "Beat  separately"  means 
to  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  The  results  are 
better  than  if  beaten  together. 

The  whites  of  eggs  will  beat  up  much  better  if  the  eggs 
are  kept  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  more. 

To  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  quickly,  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Salt  cools  and  also  freshens  them. 

SUGAR. 

Pulverized  sugar  is  best  for  angel  food,  white  sponge  cake, 
and  delicate  cake  ;  granulated  sugar  for  layer  cakes  and  white 
fruit  cake  ;  coffee  crushed  sugar,  rolled  and  sifted,  for  pound 
cakes  and  rich  cakes  in  general;  for  coffee  cake  and  fruit 
cake,  or  any  dark  cake,  use  brown  sugar. 

FLOUR. 

See  chapter  on  "  BREAD." 

Flour  should  always  be  sifted,  and  with  it  the  baking  pow- 
der or  cream  of  tartar. 

It  is  safer  not  to  put  in  at  once  all  of  the  flour  a  recipe 
calls  for.  If  it  stiffens  the  batter  considerably,  it  may  be 
necessary  to  leave  out  a  small  portion  of  it.  Bake  a  little 
of  the  batter  on  a  paper  or  a  tin  before  filling  the  pans.  It 
will  take  but  a  very  few  minutes,  and  may  be  the  means  of 
saving  a  nice  cake. 

RAISINS  AND  CURRANTS. 

In  using  fruit,  dredge  it  with  flour.  Rub  the  stems  off  ot 
raisins  ;  cut  with  a  small  sharp  knife  or  scissors  to  remove 
the  seeds.  For  a  light  fruit  cake  cut  in  two  only ;  for  a 


219 

Almonds  CAKE.  Coloring. 

black  cake  chop  with  a  chopping-knife,  but  not  so  fine  as  to 
be  pasty.  For  a  black  cake  brown  the  flour.  To  cleanse 
currants,  wash  in  several  warm  waters,  drain  through  a  col- 
ander until  the  water  looks  clear,  then  spread  out  to  dry  on 
a  sieve  or  cloth.  A  very  simple  way  to  cleanse  them  for 
those  who  have  a  hydrant  and  a  faucet  is  to  make  a  little 
bag  of  double  mosquito-netting.  Put  the  currants  in,  tie 
the  bag  to  the  faucet,  and  let  the  water  run  slowly  through 
until  it  runs  clear.  The  currants  will  be  found  to  be  clean 
and  the  bottom  of  the  bag  will  contain  the  sediment  that  is 
too  coarse  to  run  through. 

ALMONDS. 

Almonds  are  blanched  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
them.  The  skins  will  then  rub  off  easily.  If  one  applica- 
tion is  not  sufficient,  another  will  be.  The  skin  is  tough  and 
hard  to  digest. 

The  easiest  way  to  reduce  almonds  to  a  paste  is  to 
chop  them  a  little,  then  roll  with  a  rolling-pin.  If 
rolled  on  a  table,  put  a  light  sprinkling  of  sugar 
under  them  so  there  will  be  less  oil  absorbed  by  the 
board.  A  marble  slab  is  the  best.  Use  a  marble-top  table 
if  you  have  one  and  have  no  slab.  It  will  not  harm  it. 

COCHINEAL  COLORING. 
2  teaspoons  pulverized  cochineal. 
i  teaspoon  alum. 
I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Mix  in  I  cup  hot  water.  Bottle  and  cork  for  future  use. 
Make  it  the  shade  wished  by  using  more  or  less  of  the  prep- 
aration. Coloring  may  be  bought  already  prepared  at  fancy 
groceries. 

PAPER  FOR  LOAF  CAKE. 

It  is  better  to  put  a  greased  paper  in  the  pans  for  all 
loaves  of  cake.  For  very  large  cakes — especially  fruit  cakes 
—line  the  pans  with  2  or  3  heavy  greased  papers,  pasted 
between  with  a  thick  paste  of  coarse  flour  and  water.  Paste 


220 

>> 

Cake-Pans.  CAKE.  Heating  the  Oven. 

the  papers  together  to  keep  them  in  place,  grease  the  out- 
side of  the  upper  paper,  and  pour  the  batter  in.  This  lining 
will  help  very  materially  to  keep  the  cake  from  burning  on 
the  bottom. 

CAKE-PANS 

with  tubes  bake  more  uniformly  than  those  without.  A 
tube  may  be  improvised  by  using  a  tumbler,  lamp-chim- 
ney, or  bottle.  Grease  and  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  pan 
and  pour  the  batter  around  it. 

HEATING  THE  OVEN. 

Those  who  burn  wood  have  comparatively  an  easy  task 
to  get  the  oven  heat  just  right.  It  is  oftener  too  hot  than 
too  cool.  But  with  reasonable  care,  and  the  selection  of 
good  hard  wood,  letting  the  fire  burn  clear  until  there  is  a 
heavy  bed  of  coals  before  the  damper  is  turned  onto  the 
oven,  it  can  generally  be  regulated  to  suit  the  degree  of 
heat  wanted.  If  fuel  must  be  added,  add  it  by  littles  in  order 
to  keep  the  heat  as  uniform  as  possible.  Fruit  cakes  and 
other  large  loaf  cakes  require  an  oven  heat  nearly  equal  to 
that  required  for  bread.  If  the  bottom  is  too  hot  put  the 
oven-grate  under  the  cake-pan.  If  the  top  is  too  hot,  put  a 
pan  of  water  or  a  pie-pan  on  the  grate  above  the  cake.  For 
patty-pans  and  layer  cakes,  let  the  fire  be  brisk  and  hot,  to 
bake  them  quickly.  Large  cakes  should  rise  and  commence 
to  bake  before  browning,  hence  the  slower  heat  required. 
With  a  coal  fire,  the  ashes  are  a  source  of  trouble.  The 
fire-box  should  be  cleared,  and  if  a  quick  hot  fire  is  wanted, 
empty  the  ash-pan  also.  If  a  slower,  steadier  heat  is 
wanted,  the  draft  should  be  less.  Build  the  fire  up  fresh  and 
as  soon  as  there  is  a  bed  of  clear,  bright  coals  turn  the  dam- 
per for  the  direct  oven  heat.  If  a  large  baking  is  to  be  done, 
fill  the  fire-box  even  with  the  oven-plate  (never  above)  and 
as  soon  as  the  oven  is  hot  close  the  drafts.  A  draft  from  an 
open  door  or  window  will  often  check  the  heat  and  interfere 
very  seriously  with  baking. 

The  supposition  thus  far  is  that  the  coal  burned  is  the 


221 

Browning,  Etc.  CAKE.  Baking  and  Steaming, 

anthracite.  If  soft  coal  is  used,  the  tendency  is  to  too  great 
heat,  and  due  care  is  necessary  to  keep  the  fire  under  control. 
The  instructions  given  for  wood  will  apply  equally  as  well 
to  soft  coaL 

BROWNING  CAKES,  ETC. 

At  the  first  sign  of  a  cake  browning  too  soon,  it  should  be 
covered  with  smooth,  brown  paper.  It  is  easy  to  make 
covers  for  cake-pans  and  keep  them  on  hand.  Use  the 
paper  from  groceries  and  dry  goods  stores.  Cut  the  corners 
from  a  square,  and  either  pin  or  take  stitches  in  plaits  to  fit 
the  cake.  Newspaper  will  not  answer,  being  too  light  and 
inflammable. 

If  a  cake  has  to  be  turned  or  moved  in  the  oven,  do  it 
very  gently. 

A  plain  cake  may  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven,  but  if  rich, 
the  oven  heat  must  be  moderate. 

A  lady  says  that  to  prevent  cake  from  falling,  lift  it  up, 
and  let  it  drop  suddenly  to  the  table  after  putting  it  in  the 
tin.  The  air-bubbles  will  rise  and  when  baking  there  will 
be  no  falling. 

If  the  oven  is  thought  to  be  too  hot  do  not  leave  the  door 
open,  but  lift  one  of  the  stove-lids  off  a  little  way,  for  a 
short  time. 

When  a  cake  is  taken  from  the  oven  leave  it  in  the  pan 
for  15  or  20  minutes.  Do  not  put  it  in  the  cake-box  until 

cold. 

STEAMING  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Put  fruit  cake  in  a  steamer  and  steam  3  hours,  then 
remove  quickly  to  a  well-heated  oven  and  bake  I  hour. 
This  has  proven  more  satisfactory  than  baking  alone.  It 
keeps  more  moist. 

BAKING  FRUIT  CAKE. 

If  fruit  cake  is  allowed  to  stay  in  the  oven  till  the  fire  dies 
out,  it  is  a  great  improvement.  Plan  so  as  to  make  it  after 
dinner,  and  get  it  about  done  before  the  fire  decreases 


222 
Extracts.  CAKE.  General  Directions. 

much  ;  then  leave  it  till  bed-time.-  If  fruit  cake  cracks  on 
the  top,  it  is  because  the  oven  is  too  hot  when  first  put  in. 
In  place  of  wine  or  other  liquors,  you  can  use  an  extra  egg 
and  a  trifle  more  spices. 

EXTRACTS. 

LEMON  EXTRACT. 

Put  the  rind  of  3  lemons  into  half  a  pint  of  alcohol.     In 
4  days  pour  off  into  a  bottle  and  add  I  ounce  oil  of  lemon. 
This  will  make  a  strong  flavor  at  less  than  half  price. 
ORANGE  EXTRACT. 

Orange  extract  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as 
the  above. 

VANILLA    EXTRACT. 

Get  3  fresh  vanilla  beans  of  a  druggist,  break  them  in 
small  pieces,  and  put  them  into  J  pint  alcohol.  It  will  be 
fit  for  use  in  a  few  days. 

EXTRACTS  FOR  CAKE 

are  better  and  stronger  and  take  less  if  dropped  on  top 
of  the  cake  after  it  is  baked. 

A  DELIGHTFUL  FLAVORING 

for  cake  is  obtained  by  placing  a  geranium  leaf  in  the 
bottom  of  a  cake-tin  and  pouring  the  cake  over  it. 

MAKE  READY. 

Have  all  of  the  ingredients  at  hand  before  beginning  to 
make  cake.  The  fruit  should  be  made  ready  before  hand. 
The  tins  should  be  papered  and  greased  at  the  outset. 
Earthenware  is  the  best  mixing-bowl.  A  wooden  spoon  is 
better  than  iron.  A  large  cake  batter  had  better  be  beaten 
with  the  hand. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  MIXING  CAKE. 
Work  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the  yolks  of 
eggs  that  have  been  beaten  light,  then  add  the  milk  or 
water,  and  the  flour  or  flavoring,  then  the  stiffly-beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  If  fruit  is  used,  dredge  it  with  part  of  the 
flour,  and  add  the  last  thing.  Baking  powder  and  cream  of 


223 
Weights  and  Measures.  CAKE.  Frosting. 

tartar  should  be  sifted  with  the  flour.     Soda  is  sometimes 
dissolved  in  the  milk  or  water,  and  sometimes  sifted  in  dry. 
NOTE. — Attention    is  called  to  "Substitutions"  on  page 
152,  and  a  "  Cup  of  Flour,"  page  151. 

COOKING  IN  HIGH  ALTITUDES. 
Less  shortening  and  more  flour  than  the  recipes  call  for 
must  be  used  in  the  mountains.  To  boil  or  steam,  more 
time  must  be  allowed,  as  water  boils  at  a  lower  temperature. 
In  fact,  in  very  high  altitudes  food  cannot  be  cooked  at  all, 
either  by  steaming  or  boiling. 

WEIGHTS   AND  MEASURES. 

When  recipes  are  used  which  specify  the  amounts  by 
weight,  the  table  of  Weights  and  Measures,  page-  151,  will 
be  of  service  if  scales  are  not  at  hand. 

FROSTING. 

When  frosting  cake,  dip  the  knife  frequently  in  cold 
water. 

To  make  sure  that  frosting  will  adhere  to  the  cake,  put  it 
on  when  the  cake  is  quite  warm.  Another  way  is  to  dust 
the  cake  with  flour,  then  rub  it  off. 

A  tablespoon  of  sweet  cream  added  to  frosting  will  pre- 
vent crumbling.  A  teaspoon  of  vinegar,  it  is  said,  will 
answer  the  same  purpose. 

Place  a  rim  of  stiff  paper  about  a  cake  to  retain  the  frost- 
ing in  place  until  it  sets. 

QUICK  FROSTING. 

Take  the  white  of  I  egg  and  stir  into  it  all  the  pulverized 
sugar  it  will  take  ;  spread  on  the  cake,  and  smooth  with  a 
knife  dipped  in  water  now  and  then. 

BOILED  FROSTING. 

Boil  2  cups  sugar  with  I  cup  water  till  it  will  <~lick  in  cold 
water.  Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  \dd  to  the 
syrup,  after  removing  from  the  stove,  and  sti/  constantly 
till  well  mixed.  It  may  be  used  at  once. 


224 

Icing.  CAKE.  Glazing. 

CHOCOLATE    FROSTING. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Hewlett,  Niles,  Mich. 

2  whites  of  eggs  ;  beat  to  a  stiff  froth.     Add 

ij  cups  pulverized  sugar. 

6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate. 

J  tablespoon  essence  of  vanilla. 

YELLOW  FROSTING. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  beat  very  light  with  I J  cups  sugar  ;  flavor 
with  J  teaspoon  vanilla. 

EGG-LESS  FROSTING. 

One  tablespoon  gelatine  soaked  in  I  tablespoon  cold  water 
|  hour.  Add  I  tablespoon  boiling  water  and  i  cup  pow- 
dered sugar.  Flavor  to  taste.  Spread  on  cake  while  warm. 

FROSTING  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Take  I  teaspoon  gelatine  and  dissolve  in  3  tablespoons  of 
warm  water  ;  then  add  I  cup  powdered  sugar  and  beat  until 
smooth.  Flavor  with  whatever  you  like. 

BOILED  ICING. 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  I  pint  of  sugar  melted  in 
water  and  boiled  to  a  clear,  thick  syrup  ;  add  to  it  the  eggs, 
and  beat  until  cold. 

CHOCOLATE   ICING. 
|  cup  of  sweet  German  chocolate. 
|  cup  of  sugar. 
*    I  tablespoon  of  sweet  cream. 

i  egg,  well-beaten  ;  all  simmered  together  in  a 
dish.     Set  in  boiling  water,  till  it  is  a  thick  paste. 

GLAZING  FOR  CAKE. 

Take  the  beaten  white  of  i  egg,  stir  it  well  in  a  basin  with 
a  little  water,  let  boil,  and  while  boiling  put  in  a  few  drops 
of  cold  water  ;  then  stir  in  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Boil 
to  a  foam,  and  then  use. 


225 


LOAF  CAKES.  Bride  s 


LOAF  CAKES. 


GROOM'S.        BRIDE'S.         FRUIT.       POUND.         CHOCOLATE. 
GOLD.         SILVER.         OTHER  LOAF  CAKES.      • 


GROOM'S  CAKE, 
i  pound  butter. 
i  pound  sugar 
I  pound  browned  flour. 
3j  pounds  currants. 
2£  pounds  raisins. 
\  pound  citron. 
10  eggs. 

\  teaspoon  soda. 
\  cup  molasses. 
\  gill  rose-water, 
\  ounce  mace. 
\  ounce  cinnamon. 
\  ounce  cloves. 
i  nutmeg. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE. 

|  pound  butter. 

I  pound  sugar. 

i  pound  flour. 

Whites  1 6  eggs. 

\  teaspoon  soda. 

i^  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

i  teaspoon  peach  flavor. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Have  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  to  stiff  froth  by  some  one  else.  Put  together,  and 
before  stirring  add  the  flour  sifted  with  the  cream  of  tartar. 
Stir  very  gently,  do  not  beat — add  the  flavor,  then  the  soda 
dissolved  in  a  spoon  of  vinegar.  Stir  the  batter  one  way 
only,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

See  Weights  and  Measures,  page  151,  if  you  have  no 
scales. 


226 

Wedding.  LOAF  CAKES.  Pl-.-m. 

WEDDING  CAKE. 

Mrs.  W.  F  VanBergen. 

I  pound  sugar. 
i  pound  butter. 
I  pound  flour. 
I  pound  citron. 
3  pounds  raisins. 

3  pounds  currants. 

24  large  eggs  or  30  small  ones. 
I  gill  rose-water. 

1  cup  molasses. 

4  nutmegs. 

3  teaspoons  cloves 
3  teaspoons  cinnamon. 
3  teaspoons  allspice. 

PLUM  CAKE 

Miss  Fannie  DeBell,  Mt.  Carmel,  Ky. 

2  cups  butter. 
2  cups  sugar. 

Cream  together  ;  then  add 

1 2  eggs;  leave  out  2  whites.    Beat  separately, 
then  mix.     Add 

2  cups  flour. 

2  pounds  currants. 

2  pounds  raisins. 

J  pound  citron. 

J  pound  dates. 

J  pound  almonds,  weighed  before  shelling. 
Juice  of  3  lemons  in  a  cup  ;  fill  cup  with  rose-water  or 
clear  water.     Dredge  the  fruit  with  flour  after  chopping  it 
fine.     Stir  all  together  and  add 

\  ounce  of  mace. 

i  teaspoon  cloves. 

\  ounce  cinnamon. 

i  nutmeg  grated. 

And  just  as  you  'put  in  the  oven  add  i  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  i  tablespoon  molasses.  If  the  cake  is  to  be  iced 
put  the  icing  on  while  the  cake  is  warm.  The  almonds 
should  be  blanched  and  chopped  as  directed  on  page  219. 


22? 
Fruit.  LOAF  CAKES.  Fruit 

FRUIT   CAKE. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 
2  pounds  flour. 
2  pounds  sugar. 
2  pounds  butter. 
6  pounds  currants. 
4  pounds  citron. 
10  pounds  raisins. 
i  pound  almonds. 
20  eggs. 

I  gill  rose-water. 
i  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  cinnamon. 
\  ounce  cloves. 

2  nutmegs. 

The  yellow  of  3  fresh  lemons  grated.  Beat  the  butter  to 
a  cream  ;  add  the  sugar  ;  beat  with  the  hand  until  very 
light ;  add  the  rose-water,  then  add  the  eggs  (they  must  be 
well  beaten),  and  the  flour ;  next,  the  spices,  lemon,  and 
blanched  almonds,  chopped  fine.  Lastly  add  the  fruit, 
dredged  with  a  little  flour.  The  raisins  should  be  chopped 
not  very  fine,  and  the  citron  shredded  fine.  Bake  from  4  to 
6  hours. 

Fruit  Cake. 
Mrs.  Orson  Potter,  Bloomington,  111. 

2  pounds  butter. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

3  pounds  flour. 

2  pounds  currants. 

2  pounds  raisins. 
i£  pounds  citron. 

3  cups  molasses. 
20  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

i  tablespoon  powdered  mace. 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon. 

2  teaspoons  cloves. 
2  grated  nutmegs. 

This  cake  will  serve  40  persons.  It  will  make  2  large  or 
3  medium-sized  loaves. 


228 

Empress.  LOAF  CAKES.  Black. 

EMPRESS  FRUIT   CAKE, 
ij  cups  butter. 
3  cups  sugar — scant. 
3  cups  flour. 

9  eggs. 

ij  pounds  almonds  in  the  shell. 

|  pound  citron. 

J  pound  raisins,  seeded. 

I  lemon,  grated  peel  and  juice. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  beaten  whites,  and  part  of  the  flour,  then  the  fruit 
chopped  and  dredged  with  flour,  and  the  almonds  blanched 
and  chopped. 

VILLAGE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

i  pound  butter. 

I  pound  dark  brown  sugar. 

1  pound  flour  (browned). 

2  nutmegs. 

2  teaspoons  cloves. 

3  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

10  eggs. 

2  pounds  figs  (chopped  fine). 
2  pounds  chopped  raisins. 
2  pounds  currants. 
J  pound  citron. 

2  pounds  almonds,  shelled,  blanched,  chopped. 
I  pint  black  molasses. 

I  teaspoon  soda. 
£  cup  rose-water. 

BLACK  CAKE. 

Mrs.  L.  Currey,  Detroit,  Michigan. 

I  pound  flour  (browned). 
ij  pounds  brown  sugar. 
ij  pounds  butter. 

3  pounds  raisins. 

3  pounds  currants. 
\  pound  citron. 

I  cup  molasses. 

4  tablespoons  rose-water. 
10  eggs. 

Season  with  cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace,  to  taste.  Better 
have  too  little,  than  too  much. 


229 

White  Fruit.  LOAF  CAKES.  Quaker  Pound. 

,  WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
2^  cups  flour. 

|  cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  6  eggs. 
i  pound  blanched  almonds — chopped. 

1  pound  citron  sliced  thin. 
i^  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

N£>YE. — It  will  take  2  pounds  almonds  before  shelling. 

White  Fruit  Cake. 
Mrs.  O.  Blackman,  Chicago. 
|  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  cups  sifted  flour. 

I  cup  stoned  raisins,  chopped. 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Whites  4  eggs. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 

WELCOME  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Reichelt,  Chicago. 

|  cup  butter. 

\\  cups  brown  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

3  eggs. 

\  pound  raisins. 

\  pound  citron. 

i  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

\  teaspoon  cloves. 

\  nutmeg. 

\  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

QUAKER  POUND  CAKE. 

Mrs.    L.  S.  Hodge. 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  flour. 

i  Cup  sugar. 

^  cup  butter. 

|  cup  sweet  milk. 

^  cup  chopped  raisins. 

i  nutmeg,  grated.     Scant  J  teaspoon  soda. 


230 

Common.  LOAF  CAKES.  Apple  Fruit. 

GOOD  COMMON  FRUIT  CAKE. 

i^  cups  syrup. 
J  cup  melted  lard. 

cup  water. 

cup  raisins. 

cup  currants. 
;  •  cup  sugar. 

egg.  4  cups  sifted  flour. 

tablespoon  vinegar. 

even  teaspoon  soda  ;  pinch  of  salt. 

tablespoon  cinnamon. 

teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg  and  cloves. 
Bake  in  a  deep  bread-pan. 

FARMER'S  FRUIT  CAKE. 

i  cup  dried  apples. 
J  cup  sugar. 
|  cup  butter. 
ij  cups  flour. 
\  cup  sour  milk. 

1  egg. 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 
I  teaspoon  cloves. 

I  teaspoon  saleratus. 

hoak  the  apples  over  night  and  chop  fine,  and  stew  2  or  3 
hours  in  sugar,  until  they  are  candied  a  little 

APPLE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

3  cups  dried  apples, 

soaked  over  night.     In  the  morning,  stew  in 

3  cups  molasses.     When  cold,  mix  with 
3  cups  flour, 
I  cup  butter. 
3  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cloves. 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon. 

2  cups  raisins. 

i  cup  currants, 
i  lemon,  chopped  fine. 
This  makes  2  loaves. 


231 

Pork.  LOAF  CAKES.  Raisin. 

ENGLISH  FRUIT  CAKE. 

^  cake  compressed  yeast. 

i  pint  flour. 

\  teaspoon  salt. 

|  pound  currants. 

i  cup  chopped  raisins. 

I  cup  sugar. 

\  cup  shortening. 

i  ounce  citron. 

i  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Use  water  sufficient  to  make  a  sponge  of  the  flour  and 
yeast.  Let  the  sponge  rise  ;  then  knead  like  bread.  When 
light  again,  work  in  all  the  other  ingredients  ;  place  in  the 
pan  for  baking.  When  light,  bake. 

PORK  CAKE. 

i  pound  fat  salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  dissolved  in 

I  pint  boiling  water. 

3  cups  brown  sugar. 

i  cup  molasses. 

i  pound  raisins,  or  more  if  liked. 

1  pound  currants,  or  more- if  liked. 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon. 
i  teaspoon  cloves. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 
2  nutmegs. 

7  cups  flour. 

RAISIN  CAKE. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  VanB. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

i  cup  molasses. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 

i^  cups  raisins. 

6  cups  flour  after  sifting. 

3  eggs. 

\  teaspoon  soda. 

i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Spice  to  suit  taste. 


232 

Coffee.  LOAF  CAKES.  Spice  Raisin. 

COFFEE  CAKE, 
cup  cold  strong  coffee, 
cup  molasses, 
cup  sugar. 

cup  butter  or  drippings, 
cup  chopped  raisins, 
teaspoon  soda. 

teaspoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg, 
cup  five  times  full  of  flour. 

LADY  CAKE. 

Mrs.  O.  Jones,  South  Royalston,  Mass. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  white  sugar. 
i  cup  milk. 

6  eggs,  well-beaten. 

4  cups  flour. 

J  pound  raisins,  chopped. 

i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

£  teaspoon  soda. 

Nutmeg,  or  any  other  flavoring. 

ALMOND   CAKE. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

i  pound  blanched  almonds,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
Instead  of  almonds,  you  can  use  ij  cups  of  hickory-nut 

meats. 

SPICE  RAISIN  CAKE. 
I  cup  sugar. 
2\  cups  flour. 
i  cup  molasses. 
|  cup  butter. 
i  cup  milk. 
i  cup  stoned  raisins. 

i  tablespoon  each  allspice  and  cinnamon, 
i  teaspoon  soda. 


233 

Clove.  LOAF  CAKES.  Pound. 

CLOVE  CUP  CAKE. 
I  cup  sugar. 
i  cup  butter. 
3  scant  cups  flour. 
I  cup  raisins,  chopped. 

1  cup  milk  or  water. 

2  well  beaten  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

2  teaspoons  cloves. 

WHITE  CITRON  CAKE, 
i  cup  butter. 

3  cups  sifted  loaf  sugar. 

4  cups  flour. 

i  cup  sweet  cream. 
Whites  of  10  eggs. 
J  pound  blanched  almonds. 
J  pound  candied  lemon. 
I  pound  citron. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Slice  the  fruit  very  thin,  and  dredge  with  flour. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 
4j  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

i   teaspoon  each  soda,   cinnamon,  cloves,  all- 
spice, nutmeg  and  mace. 

OLD-FASHIONED  POUND  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Augustine  Owens,  Tollesboro,  Ky. 

10  eggs. 

I  pound  flour  (about  3  cups). 
i  pound  sugar  (about  3  cups). 
i  pound  butter  (about  I J  cups). 

Wash  the  salt  out  of  the  butter,  cream  it  with  the  sugar, 
*3<> 


234 

Soda  Pound.  LOAF  CAKES.  Buckeye. 

add  the  well  beaten  yolks,  then  the  sifted  flour,  alternately 
with  the  stiffly-beaten  whites.  Beat  with  the  hand  very 
thoroughly.  Use  flavoring,  if  any  is  desired. 

SODA  POUND  CAKE. 

Mrs.  C.  S.  Johnston,  Harford,  Pennsylvania. 

1  cup  each  butter  and  sugar. 

2  cups  flour. 

4  eggs  5  small  teaspoon  soda  ;  flavoring. 
Rich  and  moist  ;  will  keep  a  long  time. 

WHITE  POUND  CAKE. 

i  cup  fine  white  sugar. 

^  cup  butter. 

Beat  to  a  cream  and  add  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Then  beat  10  minutes.     Add 

i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  with 

i^  cups  flour. 

^  teaspoon  soda. 

\  cup  sweet  milk. 

i  teaspoon  lemon. 

Beat  all  together  15  minutes.     Bake  i  hour  in  moderate 
,  in  a  round  basin. 

JENNY  LIND  CAKE. 

Miss  Sarah  Hall,  Wallingford,  Conn. 

\\  cups  butter. 

3  cups  sugar. 
i  cup  milk. 

4  cups  flour. 

5  eggs. 

\  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

BUCKEYE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  C.  S.  Johnston. 

3  eggs. 

\\  cups  sugar. 
\  cup  butter. 
\  cup  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

\  teaspoon  soda. 

i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 


235 

Watermelon.  LOAF  CAKES.  Marble. 

WATERMELON  CAKE. 

WHITE  PART.— 

2  cups  pulverized  sugar. 
|  cup  butter. 

§  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  cups  flour. 
Whites  of  5  eggs. 

2\  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
RED  PART.— 

\  cup  butter. 

1  cup  red  sugar  sand. 
\  cup  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

5  yolks  of  eggs. 
\  pound  raisins — whole. 
I  tablespoon  baking  powder. 

Put  the  red  batter  in  the  center  of  the  pan,  and  the  white 
around  the  outside. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

LIGHT  PART.— 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  white  sugar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  cups  flour. 
Whites  of  7  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 
i  teaspoon  soda. 

i  teaspoon  lemon. 

DARK  PART.— 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  brown  sugar. 

1  cup  molasses. 

\  cup  sour  cream. 

5  cups  flour. 

Yolks  of  7  eggs.     Pinch  of  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon. 

i  tablespoon  each  nutmeg,  cloves,  and  allspice. 
i  teaspoon  each  vanilla  and  soda. 

Butter  the  cake-tin  and  put  in  alternate  spoonsful  of  the 
light  and  dark  batter. 


236 

Gold.  LOAF  CAKES.  Angels'  Food. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  B. 

\  cup  butter. 

\\  cups  sugar. 

2,\  cups  flour. 

\  cup  milk. 

\  teaspoon  soda. 

i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Yolks  6  eggs. 

i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Frost  with  yellow  frosting. 

SILVER  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

\  cup  sweet  milk. 
\  teaspoon  soda. 
i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Whites  6  eggs. 
i  teaspoon  lemon. 
Frost  with  white  frosting. 

This  is  also  an  excellent  recipe  for  layer  cakes  ;  likewise 
for  a  light  fruit  cake. 

PLYMOUTH  CAKE. 

Miss  Sarah  Hall,  Wallingford,  Conn. 

i  cup  butter. 

3  cups  sugar. 

i  cup  milk. 

3  eggs. 

3^  cups  flour.     Small  teaspoon  saleratus. 

ANGELS'  FOOD. 
\\  cups  pulverized  sugar. 
i  cup  flour. 

i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Whites  of  10  eggs. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Sift  the  sugar  2  or  3 
times,  and  add  it  very  lightly  to  the  eggs.  Sift  the  cream 
of  tartar  through  the  flour,  after  sifting  the  flour  alone,  four 


237 

Sponge  Cakes.  LOAF  CAKES.  Sponge  Cakes. 

times.  Add  it  very  carefully,  mixing  as  gently  as  possible. 
Then  add  rose-water  to  flavor.  Some  prefer  lemon.  Put  it 
into  a  bright  cake-pan,  not  buttered,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  45  minutes.  Try  it  with  a  straw.  Let  it 
cool  off  gradually  by  leaving  the  oven  door  open.  Turn  the 
pan  upside  down  on  the  tube,  if  it  has  one  ;  if  not,  set  it  up 
on  something.  When  entirely  cold,  take  out. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Duncan. 

2  cups  sugar. 
2  cups  flour. 
4  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
I  teaspoon  lemon. 

|  cup  boiling  water. 

Add  the  water  last.  The  cake  may  seem  too  thin,  but 
will  come  all  right  from  the  oven. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 
I  quart  sugar. 
I  quart  flour. 

12  eggs  ;  pinch  of  salt  ;  flavoring. 

Bake  in  a  dripping-pan.  Requires  no  baking  powder,  as 
the  eggs  lighten  it  sufficiently. 

SOUR  CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Hurford,  Brownsville,  Pa. 

I  cup  sugar. 

I  cup  flour. 

^  cup — scant — very  thick  sour  cream. 

3  eggs. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately  very  thoroughly.  Sift 
i  teaspoon  soda  and  2  of  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour. 
After  mixing  beat  very  hard. 

WHITE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Botsford,  Sioux  Falls,  Dakota. 

Whites  of  5  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth  on  a  large  platter.  Add 
carefully  I  cup  sugar,  and  |  cup  flour,  with  \  teaspoon  cream 
tartar  sifted  through  it.  Stir  in  lightly.  J  teaspoon  rose. 


238 

Dakota.  LOAF  CAKES.  Corn  Starch. 


DAKOTA  CAKE. 

Author's   Recipe. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs. 
^  cup  sour  milk. 
ij  cups  sugar. 
J  cup  butter. 
I  pint  flour. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 
^  nutmeg  grated. 

EVERYDAY  CAKE. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Van  Bergen. 

§  cup  butter. 
i^  cups  sugar. 
|  cup  milk. 

2  J  cups  flour,  after  sifting. 
2  eggs. 

1  teaspoon   vanilla. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE. 

G.  W.  Ashard,  Vermillion,  Dak. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  corn  starch. 

2  cups  flour. 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  and  yolk  of  I  egg. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

Mix  flour,  starch,  and  cream  of  tartar  together.     Flavor 
with  i  teaspoon  almond. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE—  SMALL  LOAF. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 
^  cup  butter. 
|  cup  corn  starch. 
i  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
i  cup  sugar. 
£  cup  sweet  milk. 
i  cup  flour, 
£  teaspoon  lemon. 


239 

Eugenia.  LOAF  CAKES.  Snow-Ball. 

EUGENIA  CAKE. 
^  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 
\  cup  milk. 
i^  cups  flour. 

3  whites  of  eggs. 

2  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  a  pan  about  10x4^  inches,  40  minutes,  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Frost  with  yellow  frosting. 

CANARY  CAKE, 
ij  cups  sugar  (powdered  is  best). 
\  cup  corn  starch. 
Yolks  3  eggs. 
\  cup  water. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  in 
I  cup  flour  before  sifting. 
I  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Bake  35  minutes  in  tin  5x9 \  inches  in  moderate  oven. 
Frost  with  white  frosting. 

SNOW-BALL  CAKE. 

Mrs.  C.  B. 

1  cup  sugar, 
ij  cups  flour. 
\  cup  butter. 

Whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten. 
\  cup  milk. 

2  large  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

CHOCOLATE    CAKE. 

Mrs.  J    P.  Hewlett,  Niles,  Mich. 
2  cups  pulverized  sugar. 
\  cake  chocolate,  grated. 

4  eggs. 

I  cup  flour. 

I  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cook  the  chocolate  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  very  little 
milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add 
the  chocolate,  the  flour  by  degrees,  the  vanilla,  and  the 
beaten  whites.  Bake  in  a  square  shallow  pan.  Frost  with 
white  frosting.  This  cake  cut  in  2  inch  squares  with  white 


240 

Chocolate.  LOAF  CAKES.  Delicate. 

sponge  cake  makes  a  very   pretty   appearance  in  a   cake- 
basket. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

1  full  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3j  cups  sifted  flour. 

i  scant  cup  milk. 

5  eggs»  leaving  out  whites  of  two. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

R  jb  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  add  the  milk  ;  then 
the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  flour  lastly,  with  the  baking 
powder  sifted  in.  Bake  in  a  dripping-pan.  The  cake 
should  be  about  an  inch  thick  when  done.  While  hot,  turn 
on  to  a  perfectly  flat  surface,  and  spread  with  chocolate 
frosting. 

Chocolate   Cake. 

Mrs.  Dr.  C.    H.    Evans. 
\  cup  butter — scant. 

1  cup  sugar. 

\  cup  hot  water, 
ij  cups  flour. 

2  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  a  square  tin.  Spread  chocolate  icing  over  the 
top.  Cut  in  squares. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Belle  Parker,  Tollesboro,  Ky. 

Whites  13  eggs. 

i  cup  butter.    3  cups  sugar. 

I  cup  sweet  milk. 

5  cups  flour. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
i  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Delicate  Cake. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour,  after  sifting. 
\  cup  milk. 

Whites  of  6  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


241 

White  LOAF  CAKES.  Walnut 

WHITE  CAKE. 
|  cup  butter. 
ij  cups  sugar. 
§  cup  sweet  milk. 
3  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoon  almond  extract. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
7  whites  of  eggs. 

CORA  BELLE'S  WHITE  CAKE. 

Miss  Cora  Belle  Hewlett,  Niles,  Mich. 

^  cup  butter,  scant. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 
2|  cups  flour. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

HOLLIS  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Roe. 
^  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
I  cup  milk. 
3^  cups  flour. 

3  eggs. 

I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
^  teaspoon  soda. 
I  teaspoon  lemon. 

Put  soda  in  half  the  milk,  the  yolks  of  eggs  in  the  other 
half.  Beat  whites  stiff,  and  put  in  last.  This  cake  requires 
a  great  deal  of  beating.  Make  one  very  large  loaf,  or  two 
small  ones. 

WALNUT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Duncan,  Sing  Sing,  N.  Y. 

|  cup  milk. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder. 

2  cups  walnut  or  hickory  nut  meats,  cut  small. 


242 

Huckleberry.  LOAF  CAKES.  Raised. 

1—2—3—4  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

I  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

5  eggs. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 

i  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  spoon  of  hot  water. 
i  teaspoon  each  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 
I  quart  huckleberries, 
dredged  with  flour,  and  stirred  in  lightly  at  the  last. 

RAISED  LOAF  CAKE. 
3  cups  bread  sponge,  rather  thick. 

1  cup  butter  or  part  lard. 

2  cups  sugar. 
i£  cups  raisins. 

3  eggs. 

£  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  cloves. 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

Mix  the  dough  and  the  other  ingredients  with  the  hand 
very  thoroughly.  Put  into  a  bread-pan,  let  rise  and  bake 
without  adding  more  flour. 

FIG  LOAF  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Morris  C.  Hutchins,  Maysville,  Ky. 

I  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  cups  sugar. 

4  cups  flour. 

5  whites  of  eggs. 

1  pound  figs,  cut  up. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Put  dough  and  figs  in  alternate  layers  in  the  pan,  and  bake. 


243 

Orange.  LOAF  CAKES.  Feather. 

ORANGE  LOAF  CAKE. 
Yolks  of  10  eggs. 
^  cup  butter. 
2  cups  sugar. 
2^  cups  flour. 

1  large  orange  grated  rind  and  juice. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Squeeze  the  juice  in  a  cup.  Add  sweet  milk  till  the  cup 
is  |  full,  and  then  mix  with  the  other  ingredients. 

LEMON  CAKE. 
i£  cups  butter. 

3  cups  sugar. 

4  cups  flour. 
|  cup  milk. 

5  eggs 

I  teaspoon  soda. 
I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  I  lemon. 
Makes  2  loaves. 

BIRTHDAY  CAKE. 

Annie  and  Marrion. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

I  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

Bake  in  a  large  dripping-pan,  and  frost*  heavily.  When 
the  frosting  is  partly  dry,  mark  it  off  in  small  squares  and 
put  half  an  English  walnut  meat  on  each  one.  (A  very 
delicious  cake.) 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

Mrs.    J.    H.  Wilson,  Chicago. 

I  cup  sugar. 

I  cup  milk. 

2,\  cups  flour  ;  butter,  size  of  an  egg. 

I  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

\  teaspoon  soda. 

I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.     Bake  slowly. 


244 

Cream.  LOAF  CAKES  Tea. 

CREAM   CAKE. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Duncan,  Aberdeen,  Dak. 

I  egg.     Break  into  a  cup. 
Fill  the  cup  with  thin  sour  cream  ;  mix  with 

i  scant  cup  sugar. 

i  \  cups  flour. 

^  teaspoon — scant — soda. 

Pinch  of  salt. 
Very  nice  also  for  patty-pans. 

PORCUPINE  CAKE. 
1  egg. 

\  cup  butter. 
i  cup  milk. 

1  large  cup  sugar. 
2i  cups  flour. 

\\  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

When  the  cake  is  cold,  stick  a  cup  of  soft  almonds  over 
the  top,  and  pour  over  a  cream,  made  as  follows: 

2  eggs. 

i  quart  milk. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

\  teaspoon  vanilla,  all  cooked  over  hot  water. 

SURPRISE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  H.  F.   Marvin. 

i  egg. 

i  cup  sugar. 

i  large  tablespoon  butter. 

1  cup  water. 

2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  teaspoon  flavoring. 

TEA  CAKE. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Leffet,  Dallas,  Texas. 
£  cup  butter, 
ij  cups  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

2\  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  yeast  powder. 


245 

One- Egg.  LOAF  CAKES.  Graham. 

ONE-EGG  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Kate  Peckham,  Dallas,  Texas. 

I  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
I  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

SISTER  JULIA'S  CUP  CAKE. 
^  cup  butter, 
i  egg. 

I  cup  sweet  milk. 
2$  cups  flour  after  sifting. 
I  cup  sugar. 
J  teaspoon  soda, 
i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

GRAHAM  CAKE. 

If  any  reader  of  this  book 

Would  like  a  Graham  cake, 
I  give  you  here  a  recipe 

Which  I  quite  often  make. 

First  take  one  cup  of  sugar  white, 

And  butter  one-half  cup, 
Together  mix,  then  add  an  egg, 

And  lightly  beat  it  up. 

Then  take  one  cup  of  pure  sweet  milk, 

And  well  dissolve  therein 
A  teaspoon  full  of  soda  so 

Its  trace  cannot  be  seen. 

Then  scatter  in  a  little  salt,    " 

And  flavor  it  with  spice, 
A  little  nutmeg,  if  you  please, 

Or  lemon  peel  is  nice. 

And  then  of  flour  you  may  put  in 

Three  even  teacups  full, 
And  when  you've  stirred  it  well  around, 

Then  quickly  pour  the  whole 

Into  your  buttered  pan,  my  dear, 

Which  ready  stands  the  while, 
Then,  if  you  give  it  a  good  bake, 

'Twill  be  so  nice  you'll  smile.— MRS.  J.  B.  BRYAN. 


246 

Cake-Tins.  LOAF  CAKES.  Cocoanut  Meat. 

CAKE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 
\  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

\  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

\  teaspoon  soda. 

I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

GRAHAM  COMPOSITION  CAKE. 
I  cup  butter. 
I  cup  molasses. 
I  cup  light  brown  sugar. 
I  cup  sour  milk. 

1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

2  eggs. 

I  teaspoon  soda. 

i  teaspoon  lemon.     Graham  flour  sufficient  to 
make  like  ginger  bread.     Bake  i  hour. 


LAYER  CAKES. 

CAKE- TINS.  PREPARING  COCOANUT.  FILLING. 

In  layer  cakes,  as  well  as  all  others  that  follow,  attention 
15  called  to  "  Substitutions"  on  page  152,  and  directions  for 
mixing  cake  on  page  222. 

JELLY  CAKE-TINS. 

In  making  layer  cakes,  grease  the  jelly-tins,  then 
dust  some  flour  over  then  ;  then  turn  upside  down 
and  shake  it  off.  This  prevents  sticking.  Make  any 
number  of  layers  desired,  from  3  to  6,  or  even  more. 
Four  is  a  good  average. 

PREPARING  COCOANUT  MEAT. 
To  get  the  meat  from  a  cocoanut,  cut  a  hole  in  the  shell, 
k4  the  milk   out,    then    pound    the    nut    all    around.     This 


247 

Frosting.  LAYER  CAKES.  Icing, 

loosens  the  meat ;  crack  it,  take  out  the  pieces,  set  in  a  dr/ 
place  for  a  few  hours.  It  can  then  be  grated.  What  is  not 
needed  for  present  use  may  be  sprinkled  with  sugar  and 
kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place  till  wanted. 

QUICK    FROSTING. 

Break  the  whites  of  2  eggs  into  a  bowl  ;  do  not  beat. 
Add  a  tablespoon  corn  starch  and  pulverized  sugar  to  make 
thick.  Mark  the  frosting  on  cake  when  it  is  warm,  so  it 
will  cut  easily  when  dry. 

ICING  FOR  FILLING. 

2  whites  of  eggs. 
|  cup  pulverized  sugar. 
Beat  well  together  and  flavor  with  J  teaspoon  extract. 

BOILED  ICING. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Galloway,  Marseilles,  111. 

One  cup  sugar,  boiled  in  J  cup  of  water  till  it  will  ''hair." 
Then  have  the  white  of  I  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
keep  beating  it  with  an  egg-beater  while  the  syrup  is  poured 
on  slowly  by  some  one  else.  It  can  be  used  right  away,  and 
is  sufficient  for  a  cake  of  4  layers,  between  and  on  top. 

BOILED  FROSTING  FOR  FILLING. 

Three  cups  sugar ;  I  cup  water.  Boil  to  a  thick  syrup 
and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs, 
stirring  constantly,  and  flavor  with  I  teaspoon  lemon  or 
vanilla.  It  can  be  used  immediately,  and  is  enough  for  a 
large  cake  of  6  layers  or  more. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  FILLING. 

Beat  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  with  an  egg-beater,  and  when 
about  half  done,  or  quite  light  and  frothy,  add  J  cup  sugar 
and  J  teaspoon  of  flavoring,  and  finish  whipping. 

ALMOND  FILLING. 

Whip  thick  sweet  cream,  slightly  sweetened,  to  a  foam. 
Add  chopped  almonds,  or  other  nut  meats  ;  mix  well ;  spread. 


248 

Filling.  LAYER  CAKES.  Roll  Jelly, 

CREAM  FILLING. 
\  cup  sugar. 
i  cup  sweet  milk. 
i  teaspoon  butter, 
i  dessert  spoon  corn  starch 
wet  with  part  of  the  milk.     Cook  over  hot  water. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING, 
i  cup  sugar. 
\  cup  grated  chocolate. 
i  egg  ;  \  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Mix  well  together,  without  whipping  the  egg  separately. 

COCOANUT  FILLING, 
i  cup  milk. 
i  beaten  egg. 
i  tablespoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

1  teaspoon  butter. 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Cook  over  hot  water,  and  add  f  cup  desiccated  or  fresh 

cocoanut. 

LEMON  FILLING, 
i  lemon  grated  peel  and  juice. 
i  cup  sugar. 
i  beaten  egg. 

i  teaspoon  each  water  and  flour. 
\  teaspoon  butter. 

Mix  well  together  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water.     Stir 
till  it  is  cooked  through.     Add   more  water   to   it,    if  liked 

thinner. 

ORANGE  FILLING. 

Take  the  juice  of  oranges  and  make  thick  and  creamy  with 
powdered  sugar.     Lemon  juice  may  be  used  similarly. 

ROLL  JELLY  CAKE, 
i  cup  sifted  flour. 
i  cup  coffee  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

i  large  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Stir  quickly,  pour  into  square  tin  and  bake  in  hot  oven  ; 
turn  on  flat  surface,  spread  with  jelly,  and  roll. 


249 

For  Jelly,  Etc.  LAYER  CAKES.  Cream. 

LAYER  CAKE 

FOR  JELLY,  CREAM,  COCOANUT,  CHOCOLATE,  ETC. 

Mrs.  Judge  Bennett,  Yankton,  Dak. 

4  eggs. 

4  tablespoons  water, 
ij  cups  sugar, 
ij  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

This   will    make   4   good  layers.     It  is  a  nice  recipe  for 
patty-pans. 

SPONGE  JELLY  CAKE. 

Miss  Emily  A.  Kellogg,  Mt.  Forest,  111. 

3  eggs. 

ij  cups  flour. 
I  cup  sugar. 
i  tablespoon  water, 
ij  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers  and  put  between  them  the  grated  peel  and 
pulp  of  a  lemon  mixed  with  grated  apple. 

SPONGE  LAYER  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Kate  Peckham,  Dallas,  Tex. 

I  cup  each  sugar  and  flour. 

3  eggs>  and  whites  of  2  more. 
i  teaspoon  extract  vanilla. 

4  tablespoons  milk,  cream,  or  water. 

i  teaspoon  baking  powder  ;  pinch  of  salt. 
Sift  together  the  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder,  and  salt. 
Make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the  flour,  break  in  3  eggs  ; 
add  the  milk.  Mix  together  as  quickly  as  possible,  only 
beating  enough  to  stir  it  together  well.  Bake  in  3  layers. 
Put  together  with  icing  for  filling  flavored  with  vanilla. 

CREAM  LAYER  CAKE. 
Break  2  eggs  into  a  cup,  and  fill  with  thin  sour  cream. 

i  scant  cup  of  sugar. 

i  J  cups  flour  ;  pinch  of  salt. 

£  teaspoon — scant — of  soda. 
If  sweet  cream  is  ased,  use  a  scant   teaspoon   of  baking 


250 

Caramel.  LAYER  CAKES.  Chocolate. 

powder  instead  of  soda.     Bake  in   3  layers.     Put  together 
with  soft  frosting. 

IRVING  PARK  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  Saunders,  Red  Oak,  Iowa. 

I  heaping  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

5  teaspoons  butter. 

Four  layers.     Put  together  with  cocoanut  rilling. 

CARAMEL  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

i  scant  cup  milk. 
i^  cups  flour. 
I  cup  corn  starch. 
Whites  7  eggs. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  a  long  dripping-pan.     For  the  caramel,  take 

1  cup  brown  sugar. 
\  pound  chocolate. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 
^  cup  milk. 

2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Cook  until  stiff  enough  to  spread.  Then  spread  over  the 
whole  cake.  Cut  the  cake  in  two  crosswise,  place  one  half 
on  the  other.  Set  in  oven  to  dry  the  top. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE, 
i  cup  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  whites  of  eggs. 
^  teaspoon  soda. 

i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Bake  in  two  flat  tins,  5x10  inches,  or  in  a  large  dripping- 
pan,  and  divide  in  two  crosswise  when  done.  For  frosting, 
take  i  cup  grated  chocolate  and  dissolve  in  a  dish  over  a 


251 

Almond  Nagout.  LAYER  CAKES.  Confectioner's. 

kettle  of  hot  water.  Take  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  ^  cup 
milk,  and  i^  cups  sugar.  Boil  7  minutes.  Take  off,  and 
add  the  melted  chocolate ;  stir  well  together.  Spread 
between  and  over  the  cakes. 

ALMOND  NAGOUT. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Currey,  Detroit,  Mich. 
\  cup  butter. 
\\  cups  sugar. 
J  cup  milk. 
2  cups  flour. 
2  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 
i  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Bake  in  4  layers.     For  the  jelly,  take 

i  pound  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  chopped. 
i  cup  sour  cream. 
i  cup  sugar. 
i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  all  together  and  put  between  the  layers.  Frost  all 
over  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  |  cup  pulverized  sugar 
flavored  with  lemon. 

CONFECTIONER'S  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Mary  Van  B.  Owens,  Oak  Park,  Illinois. 
I  large  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  butter. 

3  eggs.  ^ 

\  cup  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Take  out  half  of  the  batter  and  add  to  it  \  cup  of  stoned 
raisins,  J  teaspoon  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  nutmeg.  Bake  on 
jelly-tins,  and  place  in  alternate  layers,  light  and  dark,  with 
frosting  between. 

CHARLOTTE  POLONAISE. 

Mrs.  Elliott  Durand,  Chicago. 

Make  3  thick  layers  of  cake,  i  gold,  flavored  with  lemon, 
and  2  silver,  flavored  with  almond.  Make  the  cream  as  fol- 


252 

Charlotte  Polonaise.  LAYER  CAKES.  Rocky  Mountain. 

lows  :  i^  pints  cream  or  new  milk  ;  put  over  water,  and  add 
the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  well  beaten  with  2  tablespoons  arrow- 
root. When  cooked,  divide  in  two  parts.  To  one  part  add 

2  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar. 

6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate. 

\  pound  crushed  macaroons. 

(Desiccated  cocoanut  may  be  used  in  place  of  maca- 
roons.) To  the  second  part  add 

I  dozen  bitter  almonds  and 

6  dozen  sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  split. 

I  ounce  citron,  sliced  thin. 

4  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar. 

i  teaspoon  rose. 

Color  with  cochineal  coloring.  Put  the  cakes  together  in 
this  order:  First,  a  white  cake  with  chocolate  cream,  then 
yellow  cake  with  rose  cream,  then  white  cake  covered  with 
icing  made  as  follows  :  Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  with  I 
pound  pulverized  sugar;  add,  by  degrees,  I  poun4  sweet 
almonds  beaten  to  a  paste  with  rose-water.  When  nearly 
dry,  finish  with  a  plain  white  icing  over  top  and  sides.  Pro- 
cure the  almonds  ready  shelled. 

ROCKY  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Reichelt,  Chicago. 

For  the  cake,  take 

^  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 
6  whites  of  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  3  deep  layers.     For  the  fruit,  take 

I  fresh  cocoanut. 

I  cup  stoned  raisins. 

|  pound  citron. 

^  pound  almonds. 

I  pound  dates. 

6  large  figs. 

i  cup  currants. 
Make  a  thin  icing  of  whites  of  3  eggs  and  2  cups  sugar. 


253 

White.  Mountain.  LAYER  CAKES.  Ice  Cream. 

Ice  both  sides  of  each  cake.  To  prepare  the  fruit,  blanch 
the  almonds.  Grate  the  cocoanut.  Take  one-third  of  the 
almonds  and  chop  fine  with  all  of  the  fruit.  Mix  with  a 
small  part  of  the  cocoanut.  After  icing  the  cakes,  spread 
the  mixture  on  each  layer  and  sprinkle  with  cocoanut.  On 
the  top  layer  spread  fruit  and  use  the  whole  almonds  for 
decoration,  sprinkling  plentifully  with  cocoanut.  Desic- 
cated cocoanut  will  not  answer  for  this  beautiful  cake,  it  is 
not  so  fluffy. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Hastings,  Middletovvn,  Vt. 

^  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 
i  teaspoon  soda. 

Stir  together  without  separating  the  eggs.     Put  frosting 
between  the  layers. 

WHITE  LINCOLN  CAKE, 
ij  cups  sugar. 
J  cu-p  butter. 
2\  cups  flour. 
|  cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  4  eggs. 
\  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
\  teaspoon  soda. 

Use  \  cup  corn  starch  and  2  cups  flour,  if  desired.     Use 
lemon  filling  for  the  layers. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

6  eggs. 

i  scant  cup  sugar, 
i  cup  flour, 
i  tablespoon  water, 
i  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  3  layers,  and  put  whipped  cream  between  and  on 
top.     In  the  absence  of  cream,  use  cocoanut  filling. 


254 

Cocoanut.  LAYER  CAKES.  Gilt-Edge. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CAKE. 

Mrs.  M.  A.    Woodworth,  Chicago. 

1  cup  sugar. 
\  cup  butter. 

2  eggs. 

J  cup  sweet  milk. 
2  cups  flour. 

i^  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers.  Spread  with  cream  filling  while  warm, 
and  sprinkle  with  cocoanut. 

BELVIDERE  CREAM  CAKE. 

Miss  Lilla  E.  Miller,  Belvidere,  111. 
J  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

|  cup  sweet  milk. 
1 1  cups  flour. 

2  eggs. 

J  teaspoon  soda  and 

i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
For  the  cream,  take 

i  cup  milk. 

\  cup  flour,  or  large  tablespoon  corn  starch. 

^  cup  sugar. 

i  egg ;  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  egg,  flour,  and  sugar  with  part  of  the  milk,  and  stir 
into  the  remainder  of  the  milk  when  scalding  hot.  Flavor 
with  ^  teaspoon  extract  after  cooking. 

GILT-EDGE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  flour. 
|  cup  water. 

i  tablespoon  butter. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 
2  yolks  of  eggs. 

Bake  in  3  layers.  For  filling,  take  |  cup  sugar  in  enough 
water  to  melt.  Let  boil  up,  add  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten 
stiff.  Mix  well,  add  |  teaspoon  each  vanilla  and  lemon. 
Put  between  and  on  top. 


255 

Ribbon.  LAYER  CAKES.  Ribbon  Fig. 


RIBBON   CAKE. 

Mrs.  Rice,  Sioux  Falls,  Dak. 

2  cups  sugar. 

I  cup  butter. 

i  cup  milk. 

4  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

^  teaspoon  soda. 

Have  ready  two  tins  alike  ;  put  one-third  of  the  mixture 
in  each,  and  bake.  To  the  other  third  add  3  teaspoons  mo- 
lasses, i  cup  of  currants,  and  citron  and  spices  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  bake  in  a  tin  same  size  as  the  others.  When  done 
put  a  layer  of  the  light  cake,  then  spread  with  jelly,  then  the 
dark  cake,  jelly,  and  the  light  cake  on  top.  Lay  a  paper 
on,  turn  over  on  a  plate  or  tin,  lay  a  white  paper  or  cloth 
on  the  top,  and  put  under  flat  irons  or  some  other  weight 
until  cold.  Two  flat-irons  are  about  the  right  weight 
to  use. 

RIBBON  FIG  CAKE. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Clinton,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  sifted  flour. 

4  eggs>  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
i  cup  milk. 

3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Take  half  the  batter,  pour  it  into  3  or  4  jelly-tins.     On 
each  put  a  layer  of  split  figs,  seeds  up  ;  bake. 
To  the  rest  add 

2  tablespoons  molasses. 
i  cup  seedless  raisins. 

^  cup  currants. 

i  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

^  teaspoon  cloves. 

A  little  more  flour.  Bake  in  2  or  3  jelly-tins.  Place 
the  layers  alternately,  with  frosting  between,  having  a  fig 
cake  for  the  top. 


256 

Fig.  LAYER  CAKES.  Orange. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  FIG  CAKE. 

Use  the  recipe  for  gold  and  silver  cake.  Bake  the  silver 
cake  in  2  long  pie-tins.  Half  fill  a  long  pie-tin  with  the 
gold  cake  batter.  Lay  on  it  a  pound  of  split  figs,  close 
together,  dusted  with  flour.  Cover  with  more  batter  till  the 
tin  is  nearly  full.  Bake.  Put  the  layers  together  with  frost- 
ing, the  gold  between  the  silver  layers,  and  frost  the  top. 
Use  Mrs.  Galloway's  recipe  for  boiled  frosting.  If  you  have 
too  much  batter  for  the  gold  layers,  make  a  small  cake 

beside. 

FIG    CAKE. 

Mrs.  Morris  C.  Hutchins,  Maysville,  Ky. 

^  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

^  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  cups  flour. 

8  whites  of  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  with  2  cups 
powdered  sugar.  Spread  a  thin  coating  of  icing  on  each 
layer,  then  a  layer  of  split  figs,  then  more  icing,  another 
cake  layer,  etc.,  finishing  by  icing  the  top. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Laura  A.  Brodie,  Chicago. 

\  cup  cold  water. 
2  coffee  cups  sugar. 
2  coffee  cups  flour, 
\  cup  butter. 

4  whites  of  eggs. 

5  yolks  of  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the  beaten  yolks, 
then  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  water,  and  lastly,  the 
beaten  whites.  Then  take  the  grated  rind  and  juice  (except 
i  tablespoon)  of  I  large  orange,  and  stir  in  the  batter. 
Bake  in  layers.  Make  frosting  of  whites  2  eggs,  tablespoon 
orange  juice,  and  6  tablespoons  sugar.  Spread  between 
layers  and  on  top. 


257 

Lemon  Jelly.  LAYER  CAKES.  Banana. 


Orange  Cake. 
\  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  3  or  4  layers  and  put  together  with  icing  and 
thin  slices  of  peeled  orange.  Cover  the  top  with  icing. 
Put  a  tablespoon  of  orange  juice  in  the  cake  batter  if  you 
have  an  extra  orange. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

Miss  Lizzie  Callahan,  Tangipahoa,  La. 
\\  cups  sugar. 
\  cup  butter. 

Beat  to  a  cream.     Then  add 
2\  cups  flour. 
\  cup  milk. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

3  eggs  well  beaten. 

Bake  in  sheets  or  jelly-tins.     To  make  the  jelly,  take 

i  cup  sugar. 

1  egg. 

Grated  yellow  rind  and  juice  i  lemon. 

i  teaspoon  water. 

i  teaspoon  flour. 

Place  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  thicken. 
When  cool,  spread  between  the  cakes. 

BANANA  CAKE. 

Miss  Maria  Berry,  Mitchell,  Ind. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 
2  cups  flour. 

-  I  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  5  layers.     Spread  very  thin  slices  of  banana  be- 
tween the  layers,  and  serve  the  same  day,  if  possible. 
*33 


258 

Pine-Apple.  LAYER  CAKES.  Caramel. 


PINE-APPLE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
3^  cups  flour. 
£  cup  milk. 

5  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

Bake  in  jelly-tins  ;  grate  a  pine-apple  and  half  a  cocoanut 
and  put  between  the  layers,  after  baking. 

BLACKBERRY    CAKE. 

Mrs.  Dolly  Lee,  Rectorville,  Ky. 

3  eggs. 

i  cup  sugar. 
|  cup  butter. 
i\  cups  flour. 

i  cup  blackberry  jam  or  preserves. 
3  tablespoons  sour  cream. 

i  teaspoon  each  soda,  allspice,  and  cinnamon. 
i  nutmeg. 
Stir  well,  and  bake  in  layers  and  put  icing  between. 

CARAMEL  LAYER   CAKE. 

3  cups  sugar. 

i£  cups  butter. 

i  cup  milk. 

4|  cups  flour. 

5  eggs. 

1  small  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 
Bake  in  layers.     Caramel  for  filling — 

ij  cups  brown  sugar. 

i  cup  milk. 

i  cup  molasses. 

i  teaspoon  butter. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

2  tablespoons  water. 

Boil  5  minutes  ;  add  half  a  cake  of  grated  chocola>  -;. 
Boil  until  like  custard.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda,  stir  well,  a  id 
remove  from  fire.  When  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and 


259 

Piince  of  Wales.  LAYER  CAKES.  Peach. 

spread  between  the  layers  of  cake.  Cover  the  top  with  the 
same,  and  set  in  sunny  window  to  dry.  The  above  will 
make  2  large  cakes. 

PRINCE  OF  WALES  CAKE. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Kelley,  Mexico,  Mo. 
DARK  PART.— 
J  cup  butter. 
2  cups  flour. 
i  cup  brown  sugar. 
\  cup  sour  milk. 
i  cup  raisins  chopped. 
£  teaspoon  soda. 
Yolks  4  eggs. 
i  tablespoon  molasses. 
\  tablespoon  ground  cloves. 
i  tablespoon  ground  cinnamon. 
\  nutmeg.     Bake  in  layers. 

WHITE   PART.— 

i  cup  corn  starch. 
i  cup  butter. 
i  cup  white  sugar. 
\  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  flour. 
Whites  4  eggs. 

If  corn  starch  is  not  used  put  in  2  cups  flour.  Bake  in 
layers.  Put  light  and  dark  layers  together  alternately  with 
icing  between.  Flavor  with  lemon. 

PEACH  CAKE. 

Miss  Ida  M.  Berry,  Mitchell,  Ind. 

\  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  cups  flour  after  sifting. 
Whites  of  4  eggs. 

2  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Bake. 

Put  on  the  layers  fresh  peaches  peeled  and  cut  in  thin 
slices  and  pour  whipped  cream  over  each  layer.  This  cake 
should  be  eaten  the  day  it  is  made.  The  layers  should  nof 
be  put  together  till  just  before  serving. 


26o 

Apple  Jelly.  LAYER  CAKES.  Dolly  Varden. 

APPLE    JELLY   CAKE. 

J  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

J  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 
2  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
For  jelly,  take 

i  pint  grated  tart  apple. 

I  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind. 

i  cup  sugar. 

1  egg. 

Mix  together  thoroughly,  cook  over  hot  water,  let  cool, 
and  put  between  the  layers.  Dust  the  top  with  sugar. 

DOLLY  VARDEN  CAKE. 

DARK  PART.— 

J  cup  butter. 
§  cup  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar. 
J  cup  syrup. 
Yolks  4  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
I  cup  raisins,  chopped. 

J  cup  currants. 
i  teaspoon  cloves. 
i  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
^  nutmeg. 
LIGHT  PART.— 

Whites  3  eggs. 

1  cup  milk. 

ij  cups  sugar. 
^  cup  butter. 

2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Bake  in  square  tins  and  put  together  in  alternate  layers 
with  jelly  between.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  remaining  white 
°f  i  egg  and  i  cup  pulverized  sugar  .for  the  top. 


26l 

Variety  Layer  Cake.  COOKIES.  Christmas. 

VARIETY  CAKE. 

|  cup  butter  and 

i  cup  sugar  worked  to  a  cream  ;  add 

\  cup  milk. 

5  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 

I  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  2  cups  flour. 
Divide,  and   flavor   one-half  with  orange  water  and  the 
other   with  vanilla  and  enough  grated  chocolate  to  color. 
Bake  in  2  jelly-tins.     Mix  another  cake  batter  as  follows  : 

\  cup  butter. 

i^  cups  sugar. 

\  cup  sweet  milk. 

Whites  5  eggs. 

i  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  2  cups  flour. 
Divide,  and  flavor  one-half  with  rose-water  and  the  other 
with  lemon,  and  color  with  pulverized  cochineal  a  bright 
red.  Bake  in  two  jelly-tins.  When  done,  place  the  brown 
cake  first,  then  white,  then  red,  and  last  yellow,  with  jelly 
between,  and  frost  the  top  with  boiled  icing.  When  cold 
and  hard,  ornament  the  top  with  a  funnel  of  the  frosting. 


COOKIES  ^JV^D  JUMftLES. 


CHRISTMAS.         GERMAN.         WATER.        GINGER.        MOLASSES. 

It  adds  to  cookies  to  sprinkle  with  sugar  after  rolling  out. 
Then  cut  and  bake.  Cookies  and  small  cakes  require  a  quick 
oven. 

CHRISTMAS  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Van  Bergen,  Oak  Park,  Illinois. 

Four  eggs  and  I  pound  sugar  stirred  together  for  one  hour. 
Add  \  teaspoon  pulverized  hartshorn  ;  then  enough  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  and  cut.  Keep  in  a  warm 
room  all  night.  Then  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Sprinkle  the 
pans  with  anise  seed  before  putting  cookies  in.  Make  as 
stiff  as  you  can  roll  out.  There  is  no  butter  used  in  them. 


262 
Wate*  COOKIES.  German. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Monroe  Heath,  Chicago. 
^  cup  butter. 

ij  cups  light  brown  sugar. 
!  cup  sour  cream, 
i  egg. 
J  cup  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoon  saleratus. 

Nutmeg,  or  caraway  seed  if  liked. 
Mix  soft  with  flour.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

WATER   COOKIES. 
3  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar. 
I  cup  butter. 
I  cup  water. 

£  teaspoon  soda.    Mix  soft  with  flour;  roll  thin 

LINCOLN  COOKIES. 
J  cup  butter. 
I  cup  sugar. 
^  cup  buttermilk. 
J  teaspoon  soda  ;  nutmeg. 
Flour  to  roll  soft  and  thin. 

GARFIELD  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

J  cup  sour  milk. 

2  eggs. 

I  teaspoon  soda. 

£  nutmeg.     Flour  to  roll  soft  and  thin. 

GERMAN  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  J.  Engel,  Chicago. 

1  pound  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
\  pound  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

\  pound  butter. 
Lemon  and  mace. 

Roll,  spread  on  a  beaten  egg  with  a  brush,  and  sprinkle 
with  cinnamon  and  sugar.     Bake  quickly. 


263 

Cocoanut  COOKIES.  Lemon 

COCOANUT   COOKIES, 
i  grated  cocoanut. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

£  cup  sweet  milk. 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flour  to  roll.     Desiccated  cocoanut  maybe  used. 

NUTMEG  COOKIES. 
|  cup  lard. 

1  cup  buttermilk. 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar, 
i  teaspoon  soda. 

i  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
i  nutmeg. 
Flour  for  stiff  dough. 

VANILLA   COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

J  sweet  cup  milk. 
3j  cups  flour. 

3  eggs. 

1  scant  teaspoon  soda. 

2  scant  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar, 
i^  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  and  milk. 
Mash  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  very  fine,  and  sift  into  the 
flour,  and  sift  all  together.  Add  the  extract,  mix  soft,  using 
more  flour,  if  necessary,  roll  thin,  and  bake  quickly. 

LEMON  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter. 
i£  cups  sugar. 

\  cup  water  less  the  juice  of  I  lemon. 

2  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Grated  rind  of  lemon. 

Squeeze  the  lemon  juice  in  a  cup,  and  put  in  water  to 
make  the  cup  half  full.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add 
the  beaten  eggs ;  mix  well,  add  the  water  and  other  ingre- 


264 

H.rmit.  COOKIES.  Measure. 

dients.     Mix  as  soft  as  can  be  rolled,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
cut,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

HERMIT  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Van  Bergen. 

|  cup  butter. 
.  2  cups  brown  sugar. 

1  cup  raisins  or  currants. 
|  cup  warm  water. 

2  eggs. 

I  nutmeg. 
I  teaspoon  cloves. 
i  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
i  teaspoon  soda. 
Flour  to  roll. 

CREAM  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Fannie  H.  Bower,  Parker,  Dakota. 

i  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sour  cream,  as  thick  as  can  be  taken  from 
the  top  of  a  cream  jar. 

2  cups  sugar. 
2  eggs. 

i  teaspoon  soda. 

Flour  to  roll  soft  and  thin,  sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar  and 
roll  the  rolling-pin  over  once  lightly.  Cut,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

SOFT  CREAM  COOKIES. 
|  cup  sour  cream. 
i  cup  granulated  sugar. 


J  teaspoon  soda  ;  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  very  stiff  with  flour. 

MEASURE  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  James  Halstead,  Jerseyville,  111. 

I  egg,  broken  into  a  cup.     Put    into   the    cup 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.     Fill  the  cup  with  sugar. 

i  tablespoon  thick  sour  milk. 

To  every  3  measures  like  the  above  put  i  teaspoon  soda. 
Flour  to  roll  out.     Flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg. 


265 

Delicate.  COOKIES.  Molasses. 

DELICATE  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Hale. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

J  teaspoon  soda. 
Whites  of  6  eggs. 
Flour  to  roll  as  soft  as  can  be  handled. 

GRAHAM  COOKIES. 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream, 

2  cups  sugar. 

J  teaspoon  soda. 

Mix  with  Graham  flour  to  roll  out.  Bake  in  an  oven  not 
as  hot  as  for  white  flour  cookies,  as  it  takes  longer  to  bake 
them. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES, 
i  cup  lard. 
i  cup  brown  sugar. 

1  cup  molasses. 

2  cups  fine  oatmeal. 

I  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 
|  cup  boiling  water. 
i  teaspoon  salt. 
i  tablespoon  ginger. 
White  flour  for  stiff  batter. 
Drop  in  little  pats  in  a  greased  dripping-pan. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Baldwin. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  molasses. 

i  teaspoon  cloves. 
i  tablespoon  ginger. 
Flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Mold  with  the  hand  into  small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  steady 
rather  than  quick  oven,  as  they  are  apt  to  burn. 

Molasses  Cookies. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Van  Bergen,  Oak  Park,  111. 

i  pint  molasses. 
I  coffee  cup  butter  and  lard. 

Put  on  stove  and  boil  2  minutes.     When  nearly  cold,  add 
*34 


266 

Ginger.  COOKIES.  Snaps. 


3  tablespoons  boiling  water   and  i  tablespoon  soda.    Stir  un 
til  it  foams.     Add   salt  to  taste  and    I    tablespoon    ginger. 

Flour  to  roll. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

Miss  Kittle  Bradford,  Sidney  Plains,  N.  Y. 

i  cup  butter  (or  half  drippings  will  answer). 
I  cup  sugar. 
i  cup  molasses. 


I  tablespoon  soda. 
^  tablespoon  ginger. 

Mix  not  very  stiff.     Sprinkle  with  sugar  before    baking. 
^nokies  took  the  premium  at  a  State  Fair.) 
Ginger  Cookies. 

Mrs.    Julia  B.  De  Lon,  Chicago. 

cup  sugar. 
cup  molasses. 
cup  butter. 
cup  boiling  water. 
tablespoon  ginger. 
tablespoon  soda. 
Mix  not  very  stiff  with  flour. 

Ginger  Cookies. 

Mrs.  William  Morrison,  Spencer,  Iowa. 

I  cup  shortening. 
i  cup  molasses. 
i  cup  sugar. 
3  teaspoons  soda. 
3  teaspoons  ginger. 
Sour  milk  to  dissolve  soda  in.     Flour  to  roll. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Hewlett,  Niles,  Mich. 

cup  New  Orleans  molasses. 
cup  brown  sugar. 

cup  butter  or  lard.  Boil  20  minutes  ;  then  add 
teaspoon  soda. 
well  beaten  egg. 
tablespoon  ginger. 
Flour  to  make  it  very  sliff. 
After  it  is  well  kneaded,  cut  off  a  small  piece  to  roll  out, 


267 

i_2_3_4  Jumbles.  JUMBLES.  Old- Fashioned. 

and  put  the  balance  where  it  will  keep  warm  until  needed. 
It  should  be  so  stiff  that  it  will  be  necessary  to  keep  it  quite 
warm  in  order  to  roll  out  smoothly. 

Ginger    Snaps. 
Mrs.  D.  W.  Rice,  Kenosha,  Wis. 

I  cup  molasses. 

\  cup  shortening. 

I  teaspoon  ginger. 

I  teaspoon  soda. 

Flour  to  roll  thin.     Bake  quickly. 

JUMBLES. 

Mrs.  John  N.  Owens,  Lewisburg,  Ky. 

|  cup  lard. 
3  cups  sugar. 
\  cup  sour  cream. 
Yolks  7  eggs. 

\  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
I  teaspoon  soda. 
\  nutmeg. 

Mix  soft  and  roll  out.  Cut  in  small  cakes.  Will  keep 
well  and  improve  with  age. 

I_2_3_4  JUMBLES. 

Lottie  Berry,  Maysville,  Ky. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 

4  eggs. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  well  beaten 
eggs,  and  then  the  flour,  and  beat  all  together  until  white 
and  creamy.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  greased  pan,  about 
2  inches  apart,  and  bake  in  a  hot  o^en. 

OLD-FASHIONED  JUMBLES. 

Mrs.  Augustine  Owens. 

9  eggs. 
3  cups  sugar. 
I  \  cups  butter. 
Flour  to  roll.     Cut  in  small  cakes  and  bake  quick. 


268 

Suet  for  Frying.  DOUGHNUTS.  How  to  Fry. 

QOUGHJfUTS. 

FRIED  CAKES.      CRULLERS.      RISSOLES.       WONDERS.      PUFFS. 

Doughnuts,  fried  cakes,  and  crullers  are  almost  synony- 
mous terms.  They  are  cooked  in  hot  fat.  If  beef  suet  is 
used  instead  of  lard  the  cakes  are  more  digestible. 

Nice  clean  leaves  of  beef  fat  may  be  procured  from  the 
butcher.  Cut  into  inch  pieces  and  put  a  pint  of  water  to  a 
large  pot  full.  After  it  commences  to  melt  stir  frequently 
to  keep  from  burning.  It  will  render  out  in  one  forenoon. 
Strain  through  a  coarse  cloth  into  jars.  Drippings  if  clarified 
may  be  used  also  for  frying  doughnuts. 

If  the  fat  is  at  the  right  heat  it  will  have  stopped  bubbling. 
Test  it  with  a  bit  of  the  dough.  If  of  the  right  temperature 
the  dough  will  rise  to  the  top  very  shortly  and  the  under- 
side will  brown  very  quickly. 

Put  in  only  enough  to  cover  the  surface  of  the  fat  without 
crowding.  Watch  closely,  turn,  and  cook  evenly  on  both 
sides.  When  done  skim  out,  drain  and  put  in  a  colander. 
When  the  batch  is  finished  put  a  few  slices  of  raw  potatoes 
into  the  fat  and  boil  up  to  clarify  it.  When  it  settles  drain 
the  top  for  future  use  and  put  the  sediment  in  the  soap 
grease. 

DOUGHNUTS, 
cup  sugar, 
cup  cream, 
cup  sour  milk. 

egg- 

teaspoon  soda  ;  nutmeg. 
Flour  to  roll. 

Doughnuts. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Curtis,  Seattle,  Washington  Ty. 

i  egg. 

ij  cups  sugar. 
3  cups  water  or  sweet  milk. 
3  teaspoon  baking  powder  sifted  into  2  quarts 
flour  twice.     Mix  soft,  not  rolled  even,  but  handled  lightly. 


269 

Amalgamation.  DOUGHNUTS  Raised. 


Doughnuts. 

Mrs.  Dr.  B.  M.  Baker,  Chicago. 
\  cup  butter. 
2  cups  sugar. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 

3  eggs. 

Pinch  of  salt  ;  nutmeg. 

i  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  every 
pint  of  flour  used  to  make  them  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 
This  will  make  100  cakes. 

AMALGAMATION  DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  yellow  corn-meal. 

2  cups  flour. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
i  teaspoon  salt. 

I  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

1  cup   sugar,    and    enough   milk   to  roll    well. 
Then  fry  in  hot  lard. 

LAZY  DOUGHNUTS. 
\  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

2  tablespoons  melted  lard. 
\  teaspoon  soda. 

Stir  as  stiff  as  possible,  with  flour.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon 
in  hot  lard,  and  fry  brown.  Dip  spoon  in  lard  after  each 
time,  and  they  will  not  stick  to  the  spoon. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

Set  sponge  for  them  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon.  Fry 
the  next  forenoon.  For  the  sponge  take  i  quart  of  water, 
i  cake  of  yeast,  and  flour  for  thick  batter.  Let  rise  till  very 
light  (about  5  hours).  Add  I  coffee  cup  lard,  2  cups  white 
sugar,  3  large  mashed  potatoes,  or  2  eggs  (the  potatoes  are 
nicer)  and  a  small  nutmeg.  Let  rise  again,  until  very  light. 
Either  roll  it  and  cut,  or  break  off  bits  for  frying.  Lay 
enough  for  one  frying  on  a  floured  plate  and  set  in  the  oven 
to  warm.  When  they  are  put  in  to  fry,  set  some  more  in 


2/0 

Fried  Cakes.  DOUGHNUTS.  Rissoles. 

the  oven.  This  improves  fried  cakes  very  much.  It  takes 
longer  to  cook  raised  doughnuts  than  those  made  with  bak- 
ing powder. 

FRIED  CAKES  WITHOUT  SHORTENING. 

Mrs.  O.  Blackman,  Chicago. 

2  eggs. 

i  cup  sugar,  beaten  thoroughly  together ;  add 
I  cup  sweet  milk,  and  a  little  more  than 

1  quart  flour. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Mix  as  soft  as  can  be  rolled. 

FRIED  CAKES. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Galloway,  Marseilles,  111. 

2  cups  buttermilk, 
i  cup  sour  cream. 
I  cup  sugar. 

i  egg. 

i  teaspoon  soda ;  pinch  of  salt. 

Flour  to  roll.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

ANDOVER  WONDERS. 

3  eggs. 

i^  cups  sugar. 

i^  cups  milk. 

i  tablespoon  lard  or  butter. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 
Spice  to  taste. 

Cut  in  rounds,  boil  in  hot  lard,  like  doughnuts. 

SPANISH  RUFFS. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  a  teacup  of  water,  a  tablespooh  of 
powdered  sugar,  \  teaspoon  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  butter. 
While  boiling,  add  sufficient  flour  for  it  to  leave  the  sauce- 
pan ;  stir  in,  one  by  one,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.     Drop  a  tea 
spoon  at  a  time  into  boiling  lard,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

RISSOLES. 

Roll  out  nice  pie-paste,  and  put  bits  of  jelly  or  preserves 
in  a  row  along  the   edge,  about  two  inches  apart.      Then 


2/1 

Puffs.  bOJGHNUTS.  Crullers. 


turn  the  whole  row  over  on  to  the  layer  of  paste  and  cut 
down  through  the  two  layers  with  a  cake  or  biscuit-cutter, 
inclosing  the  bit  of  preserves  in  the  cutting.  Either  fry  in 
hot  fat  or  bake  in  the  oven.  Stick  the  edges  together  with 
a  little  water. 

FRENCH    PUFFS. 

1  pint  sweet  milk. 
6  tablespoons  flour. 
4  eggs. 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Scald  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  flour,  beat  until  smooth, 
whisk  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  add  to  the  flour  and  milk 
when  sufficiently  cool.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling 
lard,  and  drop  one  teaspoon  of  the  batter  at  a  time  into  the 
lard,  and  fry  a  light  brown  ;  sift  white  sugar  over  them,  or 
eat  with  syrup. 

VARIETIES. 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
I  teaspoon  salt. 

Flour  to  roll  thin  as  a  wafer. 

Cut  in  strips  an  inch  wide  and  four  long,  and  wind  around 
the  finger  ;  slip  off  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

VANITIES. 

Beat  2  eggs  very  light,  add  teaspoon  of  salt  and  flour  to 
roll.  Take  a  piece  of  dough  as  large  as  a  hickory-nut,  roll 
as  thin  as  paper  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  They  will  be  done  in  a 
few  seconds. 

CRULLERS. 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
i  cup  milk. 

4  eggs  J    pinch  of  salt. 
\  nutmeg. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with 
6  cups  flour. 

Mix  well  together.  Add  more  flour,  if  needed.  Roll  very 
thin.  Cut  in  cakes  3  inches  square  ;  then  make  slits  in  each 
cake  nearly  the  whole  width,  like  a  comb  with  the  teeth  half 


272 

Love-Knots.  DOUGHNUTS.  Nun's  Sighs. 

an  inch  wide.     Fry  in  hot  lard.     The  success  in  these  lies 
very  greatly  in  the  cutting  out. 

MOTHER'S  LOVE-KNOTS. 

Mrs.  Franc  B.  Wilkie,  Chicago. 
1  Cgg- 

I  tablespoon  sugar. 
i  tablespoon  butter. 
I  tablespoon  milk. 
Pinch  of  salt ;  pinch  of  nutmeg. 
Flour  to  knead  very  hard. 

Roll  out ;  then  cut  like  a  pipe-stem,  tie  in  2  or  3  knots, 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Sprinkle  with  pulverized  sugar  while 
hot. 

NUN'S  SIGHS. 

Mrs.  Z.  B.  G.,  Boston,  Mass. 

Warm  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  lump  of 
sugar,  a  little  lemon  peel  and  a  pinch  of  salt  in  a  tumbler 
full  of  water.  Set  in  a  saucepan  of  water  on  the  stove,  stir  in 
flour  until  it  becomes  a  thick  paste,  and  continue  stirring  until 
cooked.  Leave  in  the  sauce  pan  until  cold.  Then  stir  in  I 
egg  at  a  time  until  thin  enough  to  drop  out  of  a  spoon. 
Take  a  dessert  spoon  and  drop  lumps  of  the  paste  about  the 
size  of  walnuts  into  not  quite  boiling  lard.  Take  out  when 
risen  to  four  times  their  original  size  and  of  a  golden  color. 
Dust  with  sugar.  Good  hot  or  cold. 


GIJJGEfc  CAKES. 

HARD  AND  SOFT  GINGERBREAD.         SPICE  GINGERBREAD. 
MOLASSES  CAKE.         GEMS.         DROPS.         JUMBLES. 


Use  only  a  moderately-heated  oven  for  ginger  cakes. 
Molasses  cakes  brown  very  quickly  and  will  not  bear  a 
quick  heat.     Use  New  Orleans  molasses  if  possible  to  get  it. 


273 

Hard  Gingerbread.  GINGER  CAKES.  Soft  Gingerbread. 

BAKER'S  HARD  GINGERBREAD. 

ij  cups  sugar. 

\  cup  melted  lard. 

I  cup  water. 

I  tablespoon  vinegar. 

1  even  teaspoon  soda.     Pinch  of  salt. 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

i  nutmeg, 
inger  to  suit  the  taste. 

Mix  soft  as  can  be  rolled.     Put  into  a  dripping-pan  and 
mark  off  with  a  knife.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

TRAINING-DAY  GINGERBREAD. 

4  quarts  sifted  flour. 

quart  molasses. 

scant   tablespoon   soda   dissolved  in  a  little 

water. 

tablespoon  good  ginger. 

pound  butter. 

tablespoon  vinegar. 
^  cup  boiling  water. 

Make  as  soft  as  pou  can  roll  out,  cut  in  cards,  and  bake  in 
a.  rather  quick  oven. 

GINGERBREAD, 
i  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

2  eggs. 

4  teaspoons  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

i  cup  brown  sugar. 

^  cup  butter. 

i  tablespoon  ginger. 

Mix  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.     Bake  in  a  large  dripping- 
pan  and  mark  off. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD  WITH  WATER. 

Miss  Nellie  Roe,  Mantorville,  Minn. 

1  cup  molasses,  sorghum  if  you  have  it. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  drippings. 

Stir  in  just  as  much  flour  as  the  mixture  will  bear.     Put  a 
*35 


2/4 

Spice  Gingerbread.  GINGER  CAKES.  Soft  Ginger  Cake. 

tablespoon  of  soda  in  a  cup,  fill  cup  with  boiling  water,  turn 
it  on  the  batter  and  stir  it  in.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
teaspoon  of  ginger.  Bake  in  a  long  pie-tin. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD  WITH  SOUR  MILK. 

Mrs.  C.  Butterfield. 
I  cup  butter. 
I  cup  molasses. 
i  cup  sour  milk. 
I  cup  sugar. 
2\  cups  flour. 
4  eggs. 
I  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoon  ginger. 

2  teaspoons  soda.     Bake  in  a  deep  pan. 

SPICE  GINGERBREAD. 

Lou  K.  Brown,  Sigourney,  Iowa. 

\  cup  butter. 

3  cups  flour. 
\  cup  lard. 

cup  sour  milk. 

teaspoon  soda,  (or  water  and  baking  powder), 
cup  molasses, 
cup  sugar, 
teaspoon  cinnamon, 
teaspoon  allspice, 
teaspoon  cloves, 
nutmeg. 

2  teaspoons  ginger. 
I  teaspoon  pounded  mace. 
Bake  in  a  dripping-pan.     Improves  with  age. 

SOFT  GINGER  CAKE. 

Mrs.  O.  Blackman. 

egg- 
tablespoon  butter. 

cup  molasses, 
cup  warm  water, 
teaspoon  ginger, 
teaspoon  soda  ;  pinch  of  salt. 
2\  cups  sifted  flour. 


2/v, 
Soft  Mofasses.  GINGER  CAKES.  Ginger  Drops. 

SOFT    MOLASSES  CAKE, 
i  tablespoon  butter. 
I  cup  molasses. 
£  cup  warm  water. 
2j  cups  sifted  flour. 
1  egg- 

^  teaspoon  soda. 
I  teaspoon  ginger. 
Pinch  of  salt. 
Bake  in  a  deep  tin. 

MOLASSES  SPONGE. 

3  eggs. 

I  cup  molasses. 
i^  cups  flour. 
I  teaspoon  soda. 
i  teaspoon  ginger. 
I  teaspoon  cloves. 

Bake  in  a  deep  tin.     This  would  make  very  nice  patty- 
pans or  small  cakes. 

GINGER  CAKE  WITHOUT   BUTTER  OR  EGGS. 

Mrs.    H.  H.  Harvey. 

i  cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoon  soda  in 

2  cups  boiling  water, 
i  large  spoon  lard. 

i  teaspoon  ginger. 

3  cups  flour. 

Bake  in  a  large  tin.     Is  good  for  dessert,  with  sauce. 

GINGER  DROPS. 

Mrs.  Fidelia  Evett,  Chicago. 

\  cup  sugar. 
I  cup  molasses. 
\  tablespoon  ginger. 
5  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
i  teaspoon  soda  in 
J  cup  boiling  water. 

Stir  rather  thick  with  flour.     Bake  in  a  dripping-pan  and 
eat  warm.     Bake  in  muffin-pans,  if  preferred. 


2/6 

Ginger  Germ— Jumbles.  MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  Sponge  Drop. 

GINGERBREAD  GEMS. 
I  cup  brown  sugar.    • 
1  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 
|  cup  butter. 

2  eggs. 

3^  cups  flour. 
i  teaspoon  ginger. 
\  teaspoon  cloves. 
i  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
i  small  teaspoon  soda. 
Bake  in  gem-irons. 

GINGER  JUMBLES, 
i  cup  butter. 

1  cup  brown  sugar. 

2  cups  molasses. 
4^  cups  flour. 

2  eggs. 

i  teaspoon  soda. 
I  tablespoon  ginger. 
Drop  on  buttered  tins. 


MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES. 

In  our  miscellaneous  subdivision  we  put  "Cheese," 
"  Cheese-cakes,"  and  "  Welsh  Rare-bit,"  with  other  odd  and 
hard-to-classify  dishes.  It  is  a  difficult  matter  to  enter 
such  dishes  under  any  distinctive  head. 

SPONGE  DROP  CAKES. 
3  eggs. 

ij  cups  sugar. 
2  cups  flour. 
\  cup  cold  water, 
i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and 
\  teaspoon  soda  (or  2  teaspoons  baking  powder), 
i  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
Bake  in  muffin-pans  or  cups  in  a  quick  oven. 


277 

Patty-Pans.  MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  Tea. 

SPONGE  PATTY-PANS. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar 
ij  cups  flour. 

2  tablespoons  sweet  milk. 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
3  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

I  teaspoon  vanilla. 

i£  teaspoons  baking  powder,  in  the  flour. 
Add  the  beaten  whites  last.     Bake  in  patty-pans. 

SPICE  CAKES. 

Mrs.  O.  Blackman,  Chicago. 
I  cup  sugar. 
i  cup  molasses. 
i  small  teaspoon  soda. 
3  cups  flour. 
3  eggs-     Pinch  of  salt. 
|  cup  butter, 
i  cup  sour  milk. 
J  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
i  teaspoon  nutmeg. 
^  teaspoon  cloves. 
Bake  in  patty-pans  or  muffin-rings.     Sift  soda  in  dry. 

TEA  CAKES. 

Mrs.  Julia  B.  DeLon. 

J  cup  butter. 

i  cup  sugar. 

J  cup  sour  milk. 

i£  cups  flour. 

\  teaspoon  saleratus. 

1  egg- 

i  teaspoon  flavoring. 

Bake  in  muffin-tins.     This  will  make  12  small  cakes. 

WARM  TEA  CAKES. 
\  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sugar. 

\  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

2  eggs  ;  nutmeg. 

i  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Stir  quickly,  and  bake  immediately  in  gem-pans 


Ragamuffins.  MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES,  Comfits. 

MOLASSES  TEA  CAKES. 

Mrs.  Julia  B.  DeLon. 

1  cup  shortening — heaping. 

2  cups  sugar. 

ij  cups  molasses. 
I  cup  boiling  water. 
4  cups  flour. 

I  heaping  teaspoon  saleratus. 

Bake  in  gem-irons.  The  recipe  will  make  4  dozen  small 
cakes.  To  vary  it  somewhat,  bake  half  and  then  add  to  the 
remainder  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  J  teaspoon  cloves  and  nut- 
meg, and  a  little  ginger. 

Molasses   Tea  Cakes. 
\  cup  water. 
i  cup  molasses. 

I 1  cups  flour. 

1  egg. 

2  tablespoons  lard. 
i  teaspoon  soda. 

i  teaspoon  ginger. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  gem-irons. 

RAGAMUFFINS. 

Take  biscuit-dough,  roll  out,  spread  with  butter,  sugar, 
and  cinnamon  ;  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll,  cut  from  the  end,  and 
bake  quickly. 

COCOANUT   COMFITS. 
Whites  of  6  eggs. 
\  pound  grated  cocoanut. 
\\  cups  sugar. 

Drop  the  size  of  hickory-nuts,  separately,  on  buttered 
paper  laid  on  tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

CHOCOLATE    COMFITS. 
Whites  of  6  eggs. 
\  pound  of  grated  chocolate. 
\\  cups  sugar. 

2  scant  cups  sifted  flour. 

Beat  the  whites  stiff.     Stir  in  the  sugar,  chocolate,  and 


2/9 

Seed  Cakes.  MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  Widow's  Cake. 

lastly  the  flour  lightly.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  buttered 
dripping-pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  quantity 
of  chocolate  makes  it  very  strongly  flavored. 

SEED  CAKES. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

J  cup  sourish  cream. 

2  whites  of  eggs. 

^  teaspoon  soda. 

Stir  like  cake,  then  mix  stiff  with  flour,  and  roll  thin  as 
pie-crust,  with  caraway  seeds  sprinkled  in.  Then  roll  with 
fluted  roller,  and  cut  in  square  cakes. 

HERMIT  CAKES. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Roe,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

ij  cups  brown  sugar. 
^  cup  butter. 

1  cup  currants. 
\  teaspoon  salt. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  soda  in 

2  tablespoons  milk. 

1  teaspoon  each  of  all  kinds  of  spices. 

Mix  stiff  with  flour.  Roll  thin  ;  cut  in  squares,  like  soda 
crackers. 

FLORIDA  SYRUP  CAKE. 

2  well  beaten  eggs. 

2  cups  syrup. 

|  cup  water  and  dissolve  in  it 
I  teaspoon  soda. 
I  tablespoon  butter. 

3  cups  sifted  flour. 

Bake  35  minutes  in  moderate  oven  in  dripping-pan  9  by 
12  inches. 

WIDOW'S  CAKE. 
3  cups  Indian  meal. 

3  cups  wheat  flour. 

1  pint  buttermilk. 

4  tablespoons  molasses. 

2  teaspoons  saleratus. 

To  b*»  eaten  hot,  with  butter,  for  tea  or  breakfast. 


280 

German  Coffee  Cake.  MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  Florentines. 


GERMAN  COFFEE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  J.  Engel,  Chicago. 

Take  \  cake  of  compressed  yeast  (or  teacup  of  home- 
made), put  it  in  a  pint  of  warm  milk.  Stir  this  in  the  mid- 
dle of  a  pan  of  flour.  When  light,  add  J  pound  of  butter, 
J  pound  sugar,  some  raisins,  lemon,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and 
flour.  Put  in  dripping-pans  like  gingerbread,  or  a  short- 
cake. Let  it  rise,  for  baking.  Then,  with  a  cake-brush,  rub 
over  the  top  a  beaten  egg,  and  sprinkle  on  some  sugar  and 
cinnamon.  Bake. 

GERMAN  APPLE   CAKE. 

Take  tender,  pleasant,  tart  apples,  peel,  quarter,  and  cut 
in  two,  and  spread  in  a  nice  even  layer  over  the  top  of  the 
German  coffee  cake.  Sprinkle  freely  with  sugar  and  bake 
carefully. 

WARM  CREAM  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Dr.  C.  H.  Evans,  Chicago. 

I  cup  sour  cream. 

1  small  cup  butter. 

2  eggs. 

\  teaspoon  soda  ;  same  of  ginger. 
Flour  like  ordinary  cake. 
Eat  hot  with  butter. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

Melt  £  cup  of  butter  in  I  cup  of  hot  water,  and,  while 
boiling,  beat  in  I  cup  of  flour.  Then  remove  from  stove, 
and,  when  cool,  stir  in  3  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  without  beat- 
ing. Drop  by  small  spoonsful  on  tins  quickly,  about  2  inches 
apart,  and  bake  about  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  For 
the  cream,  ^  pint  of  milk,  I  egg,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2 
large  tablespoons  of  flour.  Boil  and  flavor  with  lemon. 
When  puffs  are  done,  open  the  side  with  a  sharp  knife  and 
fill  with  the  cream. 

FLORENTINES. 

Roll  rich  paste  to  the  thickness  of  the  eighth  of  an  inch, 
and  lay  it  on  a  thin  baking-tin.  Spread  over  it  a  layer  of 


28 1 

Pyramid  Paste.  MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES.  Lady  Fingers. 

green  gage  or  any  other  preserve  or  jam,  and  bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Take  it  out,  and  when  partially  cool,  hav- 
ing whipped  some  whites  of  eggs  with  sugar,  put  the  whip 
over  the  preserve,  and  strew  some  minced  almonds  all  over 
the  surface,  finishing  with  sifted  sugar.  Put  it  once  more 
into  the  oven  until  the  whip  is  quite  stiff.  The  Florentines 
should  be  of  a  pale  color,  and  a  few  minutes  after  the  paste 
is  finally  removed  from  the  oven  it  should  be  cut  into  dia- 
monds and  served  up. 

PYRAMID  PASTE. 

Make  a  rich  pie-paste  and  cut  three  or  four  sizes,  fitting 
one  upon  another.  Cut  a  bit  from  each  except  the  bottom. 
Bake  on  a  buttered  paper  laid  on  tins.  Then  place  one 
above  another  with  a  different  kind  of  preserve  or  jam  in 
each.  On  top  place  green  gages,  currants,  grapes,  or  other 
fruit. 

WHISTLES. 
J  cup  butter. 
I  cup  sugar. 
6  eggs. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  add  the  beaten  eggs, 
and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter  ;  drop  little  pats  on  a  but- 
tered paper,  3  inches  apart ;  spread  thin,  bake  in  a  pan  5 
minutes,  or  until  a  light  brown  ;  lay  on  a  sugared  molding- 
board  while  warm,  and  roll  on  a  stick ;  when  cold,  fill  with 
jelly. 

LADY    FINGERS. 

4  tablespoons  sugar  mixed  with 
4  yolks  of  egg.     Add 
4  tablespoons  flour  and 
I  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in.     Squeeze  through 
a  funnel  of  writing  paper  on  to  a  greased  paper  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan, and  bake  in   small    cakes    in    a   moderate  oven. 
These  are  good  for  Charlotte  Russe. 
*36 


282 

Sea  Foam.  MISCELLANEOUS    CAKES-CHEESE.  Fondu. 

SEA  FOAM. 

Whites  of  10  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
i\  cups  sifted  sugar. 

1  cup  sifted  flour. 

I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Put  into  rings  and  bake  quick. 

THIN  BREAD  AND  BUTTER. 

Cut  off  the  end  crust  from  a  loaf  of  bread.  Butter  the 
bread  on  the  loaf,  and  cut  off  the  slice  very  thin  with  a  sharp 
knife.  Butter  the  next  slice  on  the  loaf  and  cut  it  off  thin 
as  before,  until  the  plate  is  full,  one  upon  another  evenly. 
Then  cut  down  through  the  middle  of  the  slices,  serving 
each  one  with  a  half  slice.  Thin  bread  and  butter  is  nice 
for  an  impromptu  lunch,  or  a  Sunday  tea.  It  is  an  old  En- 
glish dish. 

EDINBORO'    CHEESE. 

Take  2  tablespoons  raspberry  jelly,  2  tablespoons  pounded 
loaf  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs  ;  beat  well  together  till 
it  is  perfectly  mixed  and  forms  a  stiff  paste  ;  then  turn  it 
into  a  dish,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is  most  delicious, 
and  is  still  further  improved  by  mixing  currant  jelly  with 
the  raspberry.  It  can  be  made  with  any  kind  of  jelly. 
Care  should  be  taken  to  beat  it  well. 

FONDU. 

A  FAMOUS  CANADA  RELISH. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  . 

4  tablespoons  bread  crumbs. 
J  pound  cheese. 
I  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  eggs. 

Cut  the  butter  and  cheese  into  small  pieces  and  place 
them  in  a  large  bowl  with  the  bread  ;  on  this  pour,the  milk 
heated  to  scalding,  -after  which  add  the  yolks  well  beaten, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  mix  well  together,  cover,  and  place  on 
the  back  of  the  range,  stirring  occasionally  until  all  is  dis- 


283 

Welsh  Rare-Bit.  MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES— CHEESE.  Quajada. 

solved,  when  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  place 
in  a  buttered  pie-plate,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about 
20  minutes  ;  serve  the  moment  it  is  taken  from  the  oven. 
Many  eat  mustard  on  this. 

WELSH  RARE-BIT,  OR  RABBIT, 

AS  IT   IS   FAMILIARLY   CALLED. 

Cut  a  piece  of  bread  |  of  an  inch  thick.  Remove  the 
crust.  Toast  nicely  on  each  side.  Lay  cheese  over  the 
toast  and  set  in  the  oven.  When  the  cheese  is  sufficiently 
melted  to  penetrate  the  toasted  bread,  serve  immediately. 

SCALLOPED  CHEESE. 

Soak  i  cup  of  dry  crumbs  of  bread  in  new  or  fresh  milk. 
Beat  into  this  3  well  beaten  eggs.  Add  I  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter  and  J  pound  of  grated  cheese.  Sprinkle  the 
top  with  sifted  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  the  oven  a  deli- 
cate brown.  A  delicious  relish  to  eat  with  thin  bread  and 

butter. 

BUTTERMILK    CHEESE. 

Scald  the  buttermilk,  then  set  it  over  the  fire  to  boil, 
skim  ofT,  and  put  it  in  a  vessel  to  drain.  Add  salt,  and  it  is 

done. 

DUTCH  CHEESE. 

Set  a  pan  of  thick  rriilk  on  the  stove  and  heat  ver^  slowly. 
When  it  comes  to  a  scald  take  off,  as  boiling  toughens  the 
curd.  Pour  it  into  a  clean  cloth  and  let  it  drip  till  the  whey 
is  out.  Mix  with  it  salt,  pepper,  cream,  or  butter.  It  may 
be  made  into  small  balls  and  served  whole,  or  in  a  large 
cake  and  sliced,  or  let  remain  soft  and  serve  with  a  spoon. 

QUAJADA. 

Mrs.  Glynn,  Boston,  Mass. 

Make  a  large  pan  of  curds  and  whey  of  sour  milk.  Cut  a 
piece  of  rennet  the  size  of  a  dinner-plate,  put  it  in  a  stone 
crock,  pour  over  it  all  the  whey,  and  add  a  large  handful  of 
salt.  Set  it  behind  the  stove  all  night.  Next  morning 
pour  this  whey  slowly  through  a  sieve  into  4  or  5  quarts  of 


284 

Curds.  MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES— CHEESE.  Almond. 

sweet  milk.  Leave  it  until  it  thickens.  Then  with  hands 
open,  gently  press  the  curd  down  without  breaking  until  it 
separates  from  the  water.  Take  a  napkin  and  gently  place 
the  curd  in  it,  double  it  squarely,  and  tie  lightly  in  a  cross 
tie.  Hang  this  to  drain  all  night.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  the 
next  day,  and  is  to  be  served  in  sauce  dishes,  and  is  nice  to 
eat  with  preserved  fruit. 

CHEESE  CAKES  FROM  CURD. 

Put  a  spoonful  of  rennet  in  a  quart  of  new  milk.  Keep 
near  the  fire.  When  the  curd  forms,  drain  off  the  whey 
through  a  sieve.  Rub  into  the  curd  4  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar,  about  ^  pound  of  butter,  I  nutmeg  grated,  and  the 
yolk  of  I  egg.  Beat  together,  then  add  a  whole  egg  and 
beat  again,  and  mix  in  J  pound  of  currants.  Line  patty- 
pans with  rich  paste,  half  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  sprinkle 
over  with  sugar.  Bake  in  a  well-heated  oven. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKES. 

Prepare  mixture  as  for  cheese  cakes  from  curd.  Leave 
out  the  currants  and  put  in  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a 
lemon  instead.  Bake  in  tart  shells. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKES  WITHOUT  CURD. 
4  tablespoons  warmed  butter. 
4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 
Grated  peel  of  2  lemons,  and  juice  of  one. 
Mix,  and  bake  in  tart  shells. 

ALMOND  CHEESE  CAKES. 

One  ounce  of  sweet  almonds  and  3  ounces  of  bitter 
almonds,  blanched  and  reduced  to  a  paste  with  2  table- 
spoons loaf  sugar.  Mix  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  the 
yolk  of  I,  and  2  tablespoons  soft  butter.  Beat  well,  bake  in 
tart  shells.  Put  a  few  cut  pieces  of  almonds  on  top. 


IGHT,  pleasant  dishes  for  summer,  and  espe- 
cially recommended  as  desserts  to  follow 
very  heavy  dinners.  They  are  far  more 
healthful  than  pastry — that  is,  if  pastry  can 
be  regarded  in  any  healthful  light  at  all. 
The  subdivisions  of  this  chapter  will  be  found 
quite  exhaustive. 


ALMOND.     CORN  STARCH.     FARINA.     GELATINE.      ISINGLASS. 

Blanc-mange  may  be  made  of  arrow-root,  corn  starch, 
farina,  gelatine,  Irish  moss,  isinglass,  manioc,  sago,  and  tapi- 
oca. These,  incorporated  with  different  fruits  and  fruit 
juices,  give  a  pleasant  variety  of  dishes  of  this  descrip- 
tion. 

Blanc-mange  should  be  made  in  a  farina  kettle  or  double 
boiler — which  is  one  vessel  fitting  in  a  larger  one.  Both 
may  be  of  tin,  or  the  smaller  one  of  block  tin  and  the  outer 
one  of  iron.  The  water  is  put  into  the  outer  one,  so  that 
all  danger  of  scorching  is  obviated.  Use  a  tin  pail  in  a 
kettle  of  hot  water,  if  you  have  no  farina  or  custard  kettle. 
Blanc-mange  is  served  with  cream  and  sugar,  fruit  juices,  or 
cold  sauce,  or  preserves  of  any  kind. 

ALMOND  BLANC-MANGE. 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Miller. 

One  quart  milk,  3  eggs,  5  tablespoons  corn  starch,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  sugar  to  sweeten  a  little.  Let  the  milk  come  to  a 


286 

Arrowroot.  BLANC-MANGE.  Farina. 

boil  slowly.  Blanch,  i  pound  almonds.  Pound  in  a  mortar 
with  loaf  sugar,  putting  into  the  mortar  2  or  3  almonds  and 
a  lump  of  sugar  at  a  time.  As  soon  as  they  are  beaten  as 
fine  as  possible,  pour  the  paste  into  the  milk,  letting  it 
warm  gradually  with  the  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
with  the  corn  starch,  salt,  and  sugar,  and  stir  into  the  scald- 
ing milk.  Flavor  with  vanilla  strongly.  Just  before  taking 
from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Pour  into  a  mold  and  let  get  cold.  Take  fruit  syrup  as  a 
sauce,  pouring  over  the  whole. 

ARROWROOT  BLANC-MANGE. 

Four  tablespoons  arrowroot,  same  of  sugar,  4  eggs,  I  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Beat  all  together.  Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and 
turn  on  to  the  mixture  gradually,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
thickens.  Turn  into  a  mold. 

CORN   STARCH  BLANC-MANGE. 
Four  tablespoons  corn  starch,  same  of  sugar,  I  quart  milk, 
pinch  of  salt.     Heat  the  milk  to  boiling.     Stir  in  the    corn 
starch,  made  smooth  with  part  of  the  milk,  and  the  sugar. 
Cook  5  or  10  minutes.     Remove  and  pour  into  molds. 

FARINA  BLANC-MANGE. 

Heat  I  quart  milk  to  boiling,  add  4  tablespoons  farina, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  sugar,  and  stir  while  cook- 
ing for  15  minutes.  Take  off  and  pour  into  molds  wet  with 

cold  water. 

FRUIT  BLANC-MANGE. 

Use  strawberries  or  raspberries,  |  juice  and  J  water  ;  boil 
this,  strain  and  stir  into  it  sufficient  corn  starch  to  thicken  it. 
Put  it  in  one  large  dish  ;  when  cool  turn  it  over  on  a  plate 
and  stick  long  narrow  slices  of  sweet  almonds  into  it.  This 
has  a  very  pretty  effect. 

FARINA  FRUIT  BLANC-MANGE. 
Use  any  kind  of  berries,  currants,  or  cherries;  stew  in  clear 
water  to  cover  ;  skim,  cook  5  minutes  longer,  strain  ;  return 


287 

Gelatine  BLANC-MANGE.  Quincs. 

the  juice  to  the  kettle,  add  sugar  according  to  acidity  of  the 
fruit.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  4  tablespoons  dry 
farina  to  each  quart  of  juice.  Stir  constantly  for  15  minutes. 
Then  pour  into  molds. 

GELATINE  BLANC-MANGE. 

Three  pints  cream.  Boil  with  J  cup  sugar  and  i£  ounces 
gelatine  dissolved  in  warm  water  to  cover  it.  Add  to  the 
cream  ;  let  come  to  a  boil,  flavor  with  I  teaspoon  lemon 
extract  ;  stir  well ;  pour  into  a  mold. 

IRISH  MOSS  BLANC-MANGE. 

Put  half  a  cup  of  Irish  moss  in  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  after 
washing  carefully.  Let  it  set  over  a  pan  of  hot  water  for 
fully  30  minutes.  Then  strain  and  mold. 

ISINGLASS   BLANC-MANGE. 

Mrs.  E.   Judson. 

One  ounce  isinglass  soaked 'for  an  hour  in  enough  of  the 
milk  to  cover  it.  The  remainder  of  one  quart  of  milk  heated 
smoking  hot,  but  not  boiling,  in  a  farina  kettle.  To  this 
add  the  soaked  isinglass  and  stir  constantly  till  it  is  dissolved. 
Add  I  tablespoon  sugar,  and  when  it  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved, take  off  the  fire,  and  allow  it  to  cool.  When  cool, 
not  cold,  add  I  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  or  other  flavoring. 
Then  pour  into  molds  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 
Eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

MANIOC  BLANC-MANGE. 

Three  tablespoons  manioc  soaked  in  4  cups  sweet  milk  i 
hour ;  add  \  cup  sugar,  heat  to  scalding,  and  cook  10  min- 
utes. Pour  into  a  mold.  Manioc  sometimes  called  man'- 
oca  and  mandioc. 

QUINCE    BLANC-MANGE. 

One  ounce  isinglass  dissolved  in  I  pint  juice  of  quinces;  add 
8  tablespoons  sugar;  stir  over  the  fire  25  or  30  minutes;  .skim; 
pour  the  jelly  over  \  pint  good  cream,  stirring  till  cool;  pour 
into  mold  wet  with  cold  water. 


288 

Sago.  BLANC-MANGE.  Souffle  Vanilla. 

SAGO  BLANC-MANGE. 

Three-fourths  cup  sago  soaked  in  3  cups  water  2  hours. 
Heat  3  cups  milk  to  boiling.  Stir  in  the  soaked  sago  with 
\  cup  sugar  and  cook  15  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Mold 
in  cups  or  a  large  mold. 

TAPIOCA  BLANC-MANGE. 

One  cup  tapioca  soaked  all  night  in  3  cups  water.  In  the 
morning  heat  3  cups  milk  to  boiling  and  pour  in  the  soaked 
tapioca  and  let  cook  15  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
\  cup  sugar.  Pour  into  a  mold  or  cups  wet  with  cold  water. 

BLANC-MANGE  IN  COLORS. 

Make  a  plain  corn-starch  blanc-mange,  and  also  a  fruit 
blanc-mange.  When  cold  pour  into  a  mold,  wet  with  cold 
water  a  layer  of  the  white.  As  soon  as  this  is  firm  pour 
in  an  equal  quantity  of  the  dark.  Let  this  stiffen,  and 
repeat  until  the  mold  is  filled.  Let  stand  in  a  cold  place 
until  thoroughly  set.  Turn  out  in  a  glass  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

SOUFFLE  VANILLA. 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  4  eggs  ;  mix  2  table- 
spoons powdered  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  few  drops  of 
strong  extract  of  vanilla  with  the  yolks.  Have  the  whites 
beaten  a  long  time,  even  after  they  seem  as  light  as  possi- 
ble. Heat  and  butter  an  earthen  dish,  and  pour  in  two- 
thirds  of  the  mixture.  Put  in  a  very  hot  oven,  and,  after  a 
few  minutes,  open  the  oven  door,  and  you  will  find  that  it 
has  risen  to  a  high  pyramid.  Break  open  the  apex  with  a 
fork  and  pour  the  remainder  of  the  uncooked  portion  into 
the  opening.  Work  fast,  and  close  the  door  as  soon  as 
possible.  Leave  the  dish  in  a  few  minutes.  Let  it  turn  a 
golden  brown,  and  try  with  a  straw  as  you  would  cake.  It 
will  boil  and  bubble  at  the  top,  but  this  will  not  injure  the 
looks  or  taste.  Eat  with  sugar  and  lemon. 


289 

Angel.  CREAMS.  Coffee. 

&REJMS. 

BAVARIAN.          DUCHESS.  ORIENTAL.          PRINCESS. 

SPA  NISH.  S  YLLAB  UB. 

ANGEL  CREAM. 

One  pint  milk,  \  cup  sugar,  little  salt,  3  even  tablespoons 
corn  starch.  Cook  the  above  over  hot  water,  and,  at  the 
last,  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Use  the  yolks  for 
a  boiled  custard  with  not  quite  a  pint  of  milk.  Flavor. 
Set  on  ice. 

APPLE  CREAM. 

Stew  apples,  leaving  quarters  whole.  Skim  them  into  a 
glass  dish,  and  whip  with  egg-beater  I  cup  cream  and  I  cup 
sugar  ;  pour  over  the  apples.  When  cold,  it  makes  a  deli- 
cious dessert  in  warm  weather. 

BAVARIAN   CREAM. 

One  quart  milk  or  cream,  6  eggs,  \  box  gelatine,  I  coffee- 
cup  sugar,  3  teaspoons  vanilla.  Make  syrup  of  the  sugar  by 
boiling  it  in  water  enough  to  dissolve  it.  Dissolve  the  gela- 
tine in  water  just  to  cover  it.  Boil  the  milk.  Stir  in  the 
gelatine  while  on  the  stove.  Take  it  off.  Stir  in  the  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  the  syrup,  flavoring,  and  the  whites  beaten  to 
a  froth.  Turn  into  a  mold.  Eat  cold. 

CHOCOLATE    CREAM. 

Six  cups  milk,  boiled  with  2  tablespoons  grated  chocolate 
and  3  tablespoons  white  sugar.  Add  this  slowly  to  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  flavored  with  I  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Mix  well,  put  into  cups — about  8 — and  place  in  a  steamer 
to  steam,  or  in  a  baking-pan  of  water  in  the  oven,  covering 
with  another  pan.  They  will  cook  in  an  hour.  Eat  cold. 

COFFEE  CREAM. 

Six  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,   I   coffee-cup  strong  coffee.     Beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  together  ;  add  a  little 
*37 


290 

Charlotte.  CREAMS.  Oak  Park. 

cold  milk.  Then  add  I  quart  boiling  milk  and  the  coffee, 
stirring  the  same  way  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  but  don't  let 
it  boil.  Pour  into  a  large  glass  dish,  and  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  for  a  frosting. 

CREAM    CHARLOTTE. 

Make  a  sponge  cake  in  3  layers  from  any  plain  recipe. 
Pour  on  each  layer  a  boiled  custard  made  of  I  quart  milk, 
3  eggs>  3  tablespoons  sugar.  Take  \  pint  good  cream,  whip 
to  a  froth,  sweeten  and  flavor  and  spread  smoothly  over  the 
whole.  Set  on  ice. 

DUCHESS  CREAM. 

Miss  Lutie  Owens,  North  Fork,    Ky. 

One  pint  tapioca  covered  with  water  over  night.  Drain 
off  in  the  morning  and  cover  with  hot  water.  Let  simmer 
until  it  becomes  clear,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  juice  of 
2  lemons,  \  can  chopped  pine-apple,  2  cups  sugar,  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Let  get  cold  and  serve  with  cream. 

FRUIT  CREAM. 

Take  \  ounce  of  isinglass,  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  then 
add  i  pint  good  cream,  sweetened  to  the  taste  ;  boil  it ; 
when  nearly  cold,  lay  some  apricot  or  raspberry  jam  on  the 
bottom  of  a  glass  dish  and  pour  it  over. 

GOOSEBERRY  CREAM. 

A  pint  of  gooseberries  put  into  a  jar,  cover  and  set  in  a 
vessel  of  boiling  water.  When  tender,  put  through  a  sieve. 
Add  a  cup  of  white  sugar  and  a  pint  of  cream.  Whisk 
quickly  until  it  thickens.  If  you  have  no  cream,  use  milk 
and  I  egg.  Make  it  a  couple  of  hours  before  it  is  wanted, 
and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  in  a  glass  dish. 

OAK  PARK  CREAM. 

Put  i  pint  water  on  \  box  gelatine.  Add  juice  of  2  small 
lemons  and  i  cup  sugar.  Strain  when  cool.  Then  slice  6 
oranges  thin,  removing  the  seeds,  and  place  on  jelly,  putting 
sugar  over  them  as  you  slice  them.  Then  whip  J  pint  of 
cream,  sweeten  a  little  and  flavor.  Pour  on  top  when  cold. 


291 

Orange.  CREAMS.  Princess. 

ORANGE  CREAM. 

Take  6  oranges,  grate  the  peel  into  3  cups  of  hot  water, 
and  beat  the  juice  and  pulp  with  4  eggs  ;  sweeten  the  liquid, 
pass  it  through  a  strainer,  then  simmer  all  together  until  it 
becomes  of  the  consistence  of  cream,  and  pour  it  into 
glasses. 

Orange  Cream. 

Yolks  3  eggs,  i  pint  cream,  \  pound  powdered  sugar,  I 
orange,  juice  and  grated  rind.  Mix  thoroughly,  heat,  and 
stir  till  cold. 

ORIENTAL    CREAM. 

Half  a  box  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in  i  pint  water.  Add 
the  juice  of  I  lemon  and  i  cup  sugar.  When  dissolved 
thoroughly,  pour  into  a  mold  or  large  glass  dish.  Make  a 
boiled  custard  of  I  quart  milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  and  flavor 
with  lemon.  Let  get  cold  and  pour  over  the  jelly.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  spread  over  all.  Heat  a  shovel 
and  hold  over  to  brown  slightly.  To  be  eaten  cold. 

PEACH   CREAM. 

Take  2  quarts  peaches,  pare,  cut  in  two,  and  sprinkle 
lightly  with  sugar.  Set  a  quart  of  milk  over  hot  water, 
after  it  has  stood  for  2  hours  with  I  large  spoon  tapioca 
soaking  in  it.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  2  spoons  sugar,  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  well,  and  when 
cooked  pour  over  the  peaches.  Beat  the  2  whites  of  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth  with  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Spread  over  the  top. 
Serve  cold. 

PRINCESS  CREAM. 

Mrs.  Azuba   Mcllvain,  Maysville,  Ky. 

Half  package  gelatine  in  i  cup  cold  water,  half  an  hour. 
Add  2  cups  sugar  and  3  cups  boiling  water.  Let  dissolve 
perfectly  and  set  on  ice  to  cool.  When  nearly  congealed, 
put  it  in  a  preserve  dish  by  spoonsful  and  peel  and  slice  3 
large  oranges  and  put  in  layers  with  the  gelatine.  It  should 
be  cold  enough  to  hold  the  slices  in  place.  This  will  serve 
eight  persons. 


Pine-Apple.  CREAMS.  Strawberry. 

PINE-APPLE   CREAM. 

Chop  I  can  pine-apple  ;  add  cup  sugar ;  cook  till  clear. 
Put  in  a  dish  I  ounce  gelatine  that  has  been  dissolved  in  J 
cup  warm  water  ;  add  I  quart  milk,  let  come  to  a  boil, 
sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with  lemon  ;  strain  slowly  over  the 
pine-apple.  Serve  very  cold. 

RICE  CREAM. 

Half  cup  rice,  3  cups  milk.  Stew  until  soft.  Then  add 
2  cups  milk,  yolks  3  eggs  beaten  with  4  tablespoons  sugar. 
Let  boil  up  and  put  in  custard-dish.  Make  frosting  of  whites 
"rtid  add  4  tablespoons  sugar  ;  flavor  and  brown  delicately. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 

Put  J  box  gelatine  in  i  cup  milk  to  soak.  Put  another 
cup  of  milk  on  the  stove,  and  when  hot  stir  in  5  tablespoons 
Sugar,  the  soaked  gelatine  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
As  soon  as  it  becomes  thick,  take  off  and  stir  in  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
"Put  into  a  mold.  Eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

STRAWBERRY    CREAM. 

One  pint  sweet  cream,  I  pint  ripe  strawberries,  hulled,  f 
cup  sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Mash  the  berries,  put  them 
through  a  sieve,  add  the  sugar.  Put  the  cream  in  whip- 
churn,  if  you  have  one,  or  into  a  pitcher  holding  a  quart  or 
more.  Set  the  cream  and  the  other  ingredients  in  the 
refrigerator,  or  in  a  very  cold  place  until  they  are  thoroughly 
cold.  Then  set  the  pitcher  into  a  basin  of  ice-cold  water, 
and  whip  with  an  egg-beater  until  the  froth  begins  to  rise. 
Add  the  juice  and  continue  whipping.  Have  the  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  in  a  cold  room.  Add  this,  and 
whip  until  the  froth  ceases  to  rise.  Serve  immediately. 

Strawberry  Cream. 

Mash  the  fruit  gently ;  drain  it  on  a  sieve  ;  when  well 
drained  (without  being  pressed)  add  sugar  and  cream  to 


293 

Tapioca.  CREAMS.  Syllabub. 

the  juice,  and  if  too  thick,  a  little  milk  ;  whisk  it  in  a  bowl, 
and  as  the  froth  rises  lay  it  on  a  sieve  ;  when  no  more  will 
rise,  put  the  cream  in  a  dish  and  lay  the  froth  upon  it. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Soak  i  cup  tapioca  in  two  cups  milk  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  boil  in  I  quart 
milk  ;  add  a  little  salt.  When  at  boiling  heat,  sweeten  and 
flavor.  Then  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  lightly. 

Eaten  cold. 

VANILLA  CREAM. 

Half  box  gelatine  soaked  in  I  quart  milk  I  hour.  Set  on 
the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten  with  I  cup  sugar. 
Heat  to  boiling,  flavor  with  i  teaspoon  vanilla  and  turn 

into  a  mold. 

VELVET    CREAM. 

One  pint  sweet  cream,  i  ounce  gelatine,  3  tablespoons 
sugar.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  warm  water.  Whip  the 
cream  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  the  gelatine  in,  while  whipping. 
Sugar  and  flavoring  should  be  with  the  cream.  Pour  into 

a  mold. 

WHIPPED  CREAM. 

Take  a  pint  of  cream,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  flavor  with  ^ 
teaspoon  lemon  extract,  and  whip  with  an  egg-whip.  Stop 
for  a  minute,  and  remove  the  froth  with  a  spoon  to  a  sieve. 
Repeat,  and  stop  again,  to  remove  the  froth,  until  all  has 
set  that  can  be  raised.  Set  the  sieve  in  a  cool  place  until 
the  whipped  cream  is  wanted.  Use  it  for  Charlotte  Russe, 

or  Vienna  coffee. 

SYLLABUB. 

Put  i  pint  cream  in  a  custard-kettle.  Stir  it  one  way 
gently  until  it  thickens,  and  add,  while  stirring,  4  table- 
spoons powdered  sugar,  juice  of  2  lemons,  grated  rind  of  I 
lemon,  and  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Serve  in 
glasses,  and  leave  some  of  the  syllabub  to  whisk  into  froth 
for  tops  of  glasses. 


294 

Baked.  CUSTARDS.  Floating  Island. 

CUSTJiftfiS. 

BAKED.  BOILED.  FLOATING    ISLAND.          MERINGUES. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

When  floating  island  or  custard,  through  neglect  or  by 
accident,  has  been  cooked  too  long  and  curdles,  take  a  bowl 
full  at  a  time  and  beat  with  patent  egg-beater,  and  you  will 
never  know  it  had  been  curdled. 

BAKED    CUSTARD. 

Three  pints  milk,  6  eggs,  well  beaten,  pinch  of  salt,  sugar 
and  flavor  to  taste.  Mix  together  and  pour  into  cups,  and 
set  in  a  baking-pan  of  boiling  water,  to  reach  to  the  top  of 
the  custard,  if  possible.  As  soon  as  done,  set  cups  in  a 
pan  of  cold  water.  They  will  be  firm  and  not  watery. 
The  custard  may  be  baked  in  one  large  dish,  if  preferred. 

[Custards  are  very  nice  set  in   a  steamer  and  cooked  in 

cups. — ED.] 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

Miss  Bertie  Cooper,  Rectorville,  Ky. 

One  gallon  sweet  milk,  10  eggs.  Beat  separately.  Add 
a  small  quantity  of  the  whites  to  the  yolks.  Put  the  milk 
on  to  cook.  When  it  comes  to  a  scald,  put  the  remainder 
of  the  whites  on  top,  and  cook  slightly.  Skim  off,  and  stir 
into  the  milk,  gradually,  the  yolks  and  \\  cups  sugar  and  I 
teaspoon  vanilla.  When  cooked  pour  out  quickly.  When 
cool,  put  the  whites  on  top. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD. 

One  quart  milk,  4  beaten  eggs,  5  tablespoons  grated 
chocolate,  I  cup  sugar.  Mix  well,  pour  into  custard-cups. 
Set  in  a  pan  of  water  and  bake  until  done. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

One  quart  sweet  milk  put  over  hot  water  to  heat.  Whites 
of  6  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  laid  on  the  milk  until  cooked. 


295 

Snow.  CUSTARDS.  Charlotte  Russe. 

Remove  to  a  platter.  Beat  the  yolks  with  3  tablespoons 
sugar.  Pour  hot  milk  over  them,  instead  of  putting  the 
eggs  into  the  milk,  and  there  will  be  no  danger  of  the 
milk  curdling.  Flavor  to  suit.  Stir  till  cooked  through. 
Turn  into  custard-dish.  A  silver  spoon  in  the  glass  dish 
will  prevent  its  breaking.  Put  the  whites  on  top,  and 
serve  with  a  bit  of  jelly  on  each  dish  at  table. 

LEMON  CUSTARD. 

Mrs.  Coulson,  Ennis,  Texas. 

Squeeze  I  large  lemon,  grate  the  rind,  add  2\  tups  water. 
Rub  2  tablespoons  corn  starch  smooth  in  part  of  the  water. 
Beat  3  eggs.  Mix  all  together,  and  cook  in  custard-kettle. 
Sweeten  to  suit  the  taste.  Put  in  tumblers  to  cool.  If  pre- 
ferred the  whites  may  be  beaten  separately  and  added  last. 

SNOW  CUSTARD. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  A.  Walter,  Louisville,  Ky. 

Beat  8  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  4.  Add  a  quart  of 
milk  and  5  tablespoons  sugar.  Set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  in  the  oven,  and  bake.  Let  cool.  Beat  the  4  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth,  add  I  cup  pulverized  sugar  and  a  teaspoon 
lemon  juice.  Put  over  the -top  in  heaps,  but  do  not  let  them 
touch  each  other. 

SWEET  POTATO  CUSTARD. 

One  pint  finely-mashed  sweet  potatoes,  2  beaten  eggs,  I 
tablespoon  butter,  \  cup  milk,  \  cup  syrup  (more  or  less  tq 
suit  the  taste).  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Beat  all  well  together 
and  bake  in  a  deep  pie-pan,  with  bottom  crust. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

One  pint  cream  whipped  light,  \  ounce  gelatine  dissolved 
in  i  gill  hot  milk,  2  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten,  I  small  cup 
pulverized  sugar.  Flavor  with  \  teaspoon  each  of  bitter 
almond  and  vanilla.  Mix  the  cream,  eggs  and  sugar,  and 
let  get  quite  cold  before  adding  the  gelatine  and  milk. 
Line  the  mold  with  slices  of  sponge  cake,  or  lady  fingers, 
and  fill  with  the  mixture.  Set  upon  the  ice  to  cool 


296 

Meringue.  CUSTARDS.  Apple  Island. 

MISSISSIPPI  CHARLOTTE   RUSSE. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Jackson,  Centerville,  Miss. 

Put  alternate  layers  of  sponge  cake  slices  and  raisins  in  a 
glass  custard-bowl.  When  nearly  full  pour  over  it  a  rich 
boiled  custard  with  icing  on  top.  Ornament  with  jelly. 

HEN'S    NEST. 

Author's  Recipe. 

Use  plain  blanc  mange  recipe  on  corn  starch  package. 
Take  half  a.dozen  or  a  dozen  egg  shells  and  fill  with  the 
blanc  mange  while  warm.  When  cold,  take  out  of  the  shells 
and  place  in  a  glass  dish.  Cut  small  strips  of  lemon 
peel  and  boil  in  a  clear  syrup  till  tender.  Place  them  around 
the  egg-forms,  and  make  a  boiled  custard  and  pour  over  all. 
(Very  pretty  and  very  good.) 

APPLE  MERINGUE. 

Stew  tart  cooking  apples  until  smooth  and  soft.  Sweeten 
as  for  the  table.  Then  take  the  whites  of  eggs — 3  or  4  to  a 
quart  of  sauce — and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  J  cup  sugar 
and  beat  again.  Spread  over  the  apples  in  the  dish  in  which  it 
is  to  be  served,  in  little  mounds  heaped  up.  Serve  cold, 
with  cream. 

CORN  STARCH  MERINGUE. 

Two  tablespoons  corn  starch,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  3  cups 
milk,  2  eggs,  and  pinch  of  salt.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling, 
stir  in  the  corn  starch,  dissolved  in  3  tablespoons  of  water, 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt.  Cook  3 
to  5  minutes,  pour  into  a  pudding-dish,  cover  with  a  frost- 
ing made  of  the  beaten  whites  and  J  cup  sugar.  Brown  in 
the  oven.  Dot  with  jelly  when  serving. 

APPLE  ISLAND. 

Mrs.  Kate  Toncray,  Tollesboro,  Ky. 

Pare  and  stew  10  large  apples.  Put  through  a  sieve,  add 
I  cup  pulverized  sugar  and  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Mix  well.  Take  3  pints  milk,  and  heat  to 
boiling.  Stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  I  cup 


297 

Trifle.  CUSTARDS.  .  Snow  Ball. 

sugar,  and  I  teaspoon  lemon.     In  5   minutes  pour  the  cus- 
tard over  the  apples  in  a  custard-bowl. 

TRIFLE. 

A  pint  of  strawberries  or  any  other  fresh  fruit  in  a  glass 
dish.  Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Put  a  layer  of  macaroons  over 
them.  Pour  over  a  custard  made  of  one  quart  fresh  milk, 
yolks  of  8  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  scalding  hot.  When  cold, 
place  the  beaten  whites  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar  on  top,  or 
whipped  cream  may  be  used  instead.  Dots  of  currant  jelly 
improve  the  looks  of  it. 

THICKENED  RICE. 

Miss    Betlie    Hill,    Maysville,    Ky. 

One  cup  rice  boiled  in  water  until  soft.     Add  a  pint  of 
milk,  little  salt,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  J  cup  sugar,  tablespoon 
of  flour  mixed  with  cold  milk ;    flavoring.     Boil   up.     Eat 
cold  or  warm.     It  does  not  require  sauce,  and  is  much  nicei 
than  one  would  think. 

RICE  HANDY- ANDY. 

Take  a  cup  of  raw  rice  and  a  cup  of  raisins  ;  put  together 
in  a  bag,  tie  securely,  leaving  plenty  of  room  to  swell.  Boil 
about  2  hours  in  water  salted  a  little.  To  be  sliced  and 
eaten  with  cream  and  sugar.  Or,  put  the  rice  and  raisins 
into  4  cups  water,  and  steam  I  hour,  and  serve  with  any 
sweet  sauce. 

RICE-BALLS   GARNISHED    WITH    CRANBERRIES. 

Boil  rice  and  mold  it  in  cups.  Serve  each  person  with  I 
ball  in  a  saucer,  and  pour  over  it  I  or  2  spoons  of  very  sweet 
cranberry  sauce. 

SNOW-BALLS. 

Mold  simple  boiled  rice  in  tea-cups.  When  turned  out, 
serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  boiled  custard.  A  pretty 
effect  is  obtained  by  using  red  sugar-sand  to  sweeten  the 
rice  before  molding.  Call  it  "red  rice." 


298 

Artificial  Honey.  •  CUSTARDS.  Lemon  Butter. 

ALMOND  SNOW-BALLS. 

Boil  rice  in  a  double  boiler  in  water  until  soft.  Then 
pour  in  milk,  and  mold  in  cups  or  balls.  Then  take  blanched 
almonds,  cut  in  halves,  and  stick  around  in  the  rice.  Serve 
with  cream  sauce,  or  plain  cream  and  sugar. 

ARTIFICIAL  HONEY. 

Five  pounds  nice  brown  sugar,  3  cups  water,  20  grains 
cream  tartar,  5  drops  essence  peppermint,  i^  pounds  honey. 
Dissolve  the  sugar  in  water  slowly;  skim.  Dissolve 
cream  of  tartar  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  add.  Stir  well  ; 
add  the  honey  already  heated  to  boiling.  Add  the  essence, 

stir,  let  cool. 

FRENCH  HONEY. 

One  pound  lump  sugar,  4  whole  eggs,  and  2  yolks  extra, 
juice  of  4  lemons,  grated  rind  of  2,  3  tablespoons  butter. 
Stir  altogether  until  thoroughly  incorporated,  and  heat  over 
a  slow  fire.  Put  into  jars,  cover  with  paper,  and  keep  with 
canned  fruit.  Use  for  tarts  and  layer  cakes. 

LEMON  HONEY. 

Take  6  well-beaten  eggs,  3  lemons,  grated  rind,  I  pound 
white  sugar,  2  ounces  butter.  Add  juice  of  lemons,  stir 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  all  but  the  eggs,  and 
simmer.  When  hot,  turn  in  the  eggs,  stir  quickly  for  five 
minutes  and  take  from  the  fire,  setting  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water.  Very  nice  for  jelly  cake  and  will  keep  months. 

LEMON  BUTTER. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Smith. 

Two  pints  white  sugar,  ii  pints  water,  3  eggs  well-beaten, 
lump  of  butter  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  2  tablespoons  corn 
starch,  juice  of  2  lemons,  rind  of  I.  Cook  in  a  dish  set  over 
boiling  water.  Stir  often  to  keep  it  smooth.  Use  as  sauce, 
filling  for  tarts,  or  as  jelly  for  layer  ctike. 


ICE  CREAMS. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  FREEZING.  LEMON.  VANILLA. 

CHOCOLATE.  COCOANUT.  DELMONICO. 

N  the  absence  of  a  regular  freezer,  a  covered 
tin  pail  will  answer  very  well.  It  should  be 
set  in  a  wooden  pail  enough  larger  than 
itself  to  allow  plenty  of  room  for  the  ice 
and  salt.  The  inner  vessel  should  be  about 
the  same  depth  as  the  outer.  If  it  is  much 
less,  there  is  great  danger  of  the  salt  water  entering  it 
as  the  ice  dissolves  and  the  vessel  descends.  Another 
reason,  the  mixture  can  be  more  easily  stirred  if  the 
vessel  rests  on  a  solid  foundation.  To  prepare  the  ice, 
put  it  in  an  old  gunny-sack,  and  pound  with  a  hatchet 
or  mallet  into  lumps  about  the  size  of  hickory-nuts. 
Have  the  freezer  or  pail  set  firmly  in  the  center  of 
the  tub  or  bucket.  Fasten  .the  cover  on  very  securely. 
Allow  about  2  pounds  of  coarse  salt  to  6  pounds  of  ice. 
Put  a  3-inch  layer  of  ice  at  the  bottom,  then  a  thick 
layer  of  salt,  until  the  tub  is  filled  to  the  top  of  the 
freezer,  with  salt  for  top  layer.  Pack  firmly.  Turn  the 
freezer  or  pail  briskly  for  5  minutes.  Then  brush  the 
salt  carefully  from  the  cover  ;  take  it  off.  Stir  the 
cream  thoroughly  from  bottom  and  sides.  Replace  the 
cover.  Turn  again  for  5  minutes.  The  accumulated 
water  must  be  dipped  out,  if  there  is  no  hole  in  the 
bottom  of  the  tub.  Add  more  ice  and  salt  as  fast  as 
needed.  As  the  cream  forms  into  consistence,  scrape 


300 

Lemon.  ICE  .CREAM.  Vanilla. 

it  from  the  sides  and  beat  very  hard,  for  on  this 
depends  the  smoothness  of  the  cream.  Continue  the 
turning  until  the  cream  is  well  set.  If  it  is  to  be 
served  from  the  freezer,  pour  off  all  the  water,  fill  up 
with  ice,  putting  a  layer  on  top  of  the  cover,  spread 
a  woolen  blanket,  or  double  a  piece  of  carpet  over, 
and  set  aside  till  wanted.  If  it  is  to  be  molded,  fill 
the  molds,  pressing  it  in  very  firmly  when  the  cream 
is  well  frozen.  Pack  the  molds  in  ice  and  salt  until 
wanted.  Dip  them  in  hot  water  for  an  instant,  and 
turn  out.  Mold  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before 
serving. 

LEMON  ICE   CREAM. 

Two  gallons  fresh  milk,  4  pounds  sugar,  6  eggs,  well-beaten, 
2  tablespoons  lemon  extract.  Mix  together  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  I  lemon,  I 
cup  white  sugar  ;  mix  and  freeze. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 

Two  gallons  fresh  milk,  4  pounds  sugar,  6  eggs,  well 
beaten,  2  tablespoons  vanilla.  Mix  together  and  freeze. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  cream,  \  pound  sugar  (granulated),  half  a 
vanilla  bean.  Boil  half  the  cream  with  the  sugar  and  bean, 
then  add  the  rest  of  the  cream.  Cool  and  strain.  If  ex- 
tract of  vanilla  is  used,  do  not  boil  it,  but  put  in  when  ready 
to  freeze.  Make  it  strong  with  flavoring,  as  it  loses  strength 
by  freezing. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 

Two  gallons  fresh  milk,  4  pounds  sugar,  6  eggs,  well 
beaten,  I  cup  grated  chocolate.  Dissolve  the  chocolate  in 
warm  milk.  Then  mix  together  and  freeze.  Eggs  may  be 
dispensed  with  if  cream  is  used  instead  of  milk.  Add  2 
tablespoons  vanilla,  if  liked. 


Chocolate.  ICE  CREAM.  Coffee. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

Allow  i  tablespoon  of  grated  chocolate  dissolved  in  warm 
milk  and  f  cup  nice  brown  sugar  to  every  quart  of  cream. 
Put  in  when  partly  frozen. 

COCOANUT  ICE  CREAM. 

Take  a  good-sized  cocoanut,  pare  and  grate  very  fine. 
Mix  with  i  cup  sugar  and  I  quart  sweet  cream.  Freeze, 
and  during  the  freezing  process  stir  well  from  the  bottom 
and  sides. 

FRUIT  ICE  CREAM. 

To  every  pint  of  fruit-juice,  allow  a  pint  of  sweet  cream. 
The  quantity  of  sugar  will  depend  upon  the  acidity  of  the 
fruit  used.  Consult  other  recipes  in  this  chapter  for  a  guide. 
Apples,  peaches,  pears,  pine-apples,  quinces,  etc.,  should  be 
pared  and  grated.  Small  fruits,  such  as  currants,  raspber- 
ries, or  strawberries,  should  be  mashed  and  put  through  a 
sieve.  After  sweetening  with  powdered  sugar,  and  stirring 
thoroughly,  let  it  stand  until  the  cream  is  whipped — 2  or  3 
minutes.  Put  together  and  then  whip  the  mixture  for  5 
minutes.  Put  into  the  freezer,  stirring  it  from  the  bottom 
and  sides  2  or  3  times  during  the  freezing  process. 

TEA  ICE  CREAM. 

Scald  a  pint  of  milk  with  4  tablespoons  good  tea.  Take 
off,  and  in  about  5  minutes  strain  into  a  pint  of  cold  cream. 
Heat  the  mixture  to  scalding,  and  mix  with  it  4  well-beaten 
eggs  and  2  cups  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly,  let  it  cool,  and 

freeze. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 

Two  quarts  cream,  i  pint  milk,  4  eggs,  2  tablespoons 
arrowroot,  2  cups  strong  liquid  coffee,  4  cups  white  sugar. 
Mix  the  arrowroot  in  \  cup  cold  milk,  and  add  to  the  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Pour  over  this  mixture  a  pint  of  milk,  heated 
to  boiling.  Let  cool  and  add  the  cream.  Put  into  the 
freezer.  Stir  thoroughly.  When  partly  frozen,  add  the 
coffee.  Beat  well,  and  freeze. 


302 

Lemon.  SHERBETS.  Strawberry. 

DRLMONICO. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Kelley,  Mexico,  Mo. 

Dissolve  i  box  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  warmed  milk. 
Beat  very  light  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  ;  add  2  large  cups  sugar. 
After  mixing  the  eggs  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  the 
warmed  milk.  Then  put  in  J  gallon  of  cream,  stirring  all 
the  time  to  prevent  the  gelatine  from  congealing.  Flavor 
with  vanilla,  pour  into  the  freezer,  and  freeze  quickly.  It  is 
best  to  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  enough  boiling  water  to 
cover  it  before  using  the  milk.  The  whites  of  eggs  are  not 
used. 


SHE<R<BETS. 

LEMON.  PINE- APPLE.  STRAWBERRY. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

Six  lemons,  ij  pounds  sugar,  I  pint  good,  fresh  cream, 
whites  of  6  eggs,  2  quarts  water,  boiling.  Pour  the 
water  over  the  rinds  of  the  lemons.  Mix  the  sugar  with 
the  juice  of  the  lemons.  Add  the  water  drained  from  the 
lemon  peelings.  Put  into  a  freezer.  When  it  begins  to 
freeze,  pour  in  the  cream,  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  stir  well,  and 

freeze. 

PINE-APPLE  SHERBET. 

Miss  Phebe  Wood,  Maysville,  Ky. 

For  a  gallon  freezer,  take  I  quart  granulated  sugar  and  I 
quart  water.  Boil  to  a  thick  syrup  and  pour  it  boiling  hot 
over  I  can  of  grated — or  finely-chopped — pine-apple.  Add 
the  juice  and  pulp  of  4  lemons,  and  put  into  the  freezer. 
Add  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  fill  up  with  cold 
water,  lacking  a  quart.  That  leaves  room  enough  to  freeze. 
Be  sure  and  turn  the  freezer  until  it  is  filled. 

STRAWBERRY   SHERBET. 

One  quart  strawberries,  3  pints  water,  I  lemon — the  juice 
only — i  tablespoon  orange-flower  water,  |  pound  white 


303 

Currant.  WATER  ICES.   .  Orange. 

sugar.  The  strawberries  should  be  fresh  and  ripe.  Crush 
to  a  smooth  paste,  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  (except 
the  sugar)  and  let  it  stand  3  hours.  Strain  over  the  sugar, 
squeezing  the  cloth  hard,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
strain  again,  and  set  in  ice  for  2  hours  or  more  before  you 
use  it. 


K  ICES. 


CURRANT.  LEMON.  ORANGE.  RASPBERRY. 

CURRANT   ICE. 

Six  cups  water,  4^  cups  sugar,  boiled  20  minutes.  Skim 
well,  and  add  2  cups  currant-juice.  Put  into  a  freezer  and 
when  partly  congealed  add  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  5  eggs, 
stir  in,  and  finish. 

LEMON  ICE. 

Two  cups  lemon-juice,  4  cups  sugar,  4  cups  water.  Put 
into  a  freezer  and  when  it  begins  to  congeal  add  whites  of 
4  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  If  the  water  is  poured  over  3  or 
4  of  the  lemon  rinds  and  allowed  to  stand  for  an  hour  be- 
forehand, it  adds  to  the  flavor.  The  rinds  should  then  be 

removed. 

Lemon  Ice. 

Make  a  rich  lemonade.  Strain  into  the  freezer.  Then 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  to  I  quart.  Freeze. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

Steep  the  rinds  of  6  oranges  in  I  quart  of  water  in  one 
vessel,  while  you  make  a  syrup  of  2  cups  of  sugar  boiled 
with  \  cup  water  for  15  minutes  in  another  vessel.  Skim 
the  syrup,  strain  the  water  from  the  orange  peel,  put  the 
syrup  and  water  together,  let  cool,  add  the  juice  of  the 
oranges,  and  freeze.  The  juice  of  a  lemon  added  gives  a 
more  decided  flavor.  If  the  orange  peel  taste  seems  too 
strong,  use  only  part  of  it,  and  clear  water  for  the  balance. 


304 

Pine-Apple.  WATER  ICES.  Watermelon. 

Orange  Ice. 

Eight  oranges,  I  pound  sugar,  I  lemon,  i  quart  and  a  cup 
of  water.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  skim  it 
well,  cool,  add  the  juice  of  the  oranges.  Boil  up  the  rinds 
and  strain  the  water  into  the  syrup,  and  add  the  juice  and 
rind  of  a  lemon  same  way.  Freeze. 

PINE-APPLE  ICE. 

Peel  and  pound  a  pine-apple  and  put  through  a  sieve. 
Add  the  juice  of  I  or  2  lemons  with  \  cup  of  water  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Strain  into  the  freezer. 

RASPBERRY  ICE. 

Three  quarts  berry  juice,  I  quart  water,  2  pounds  white 
sugar.  Loaf  sugar  is  best.  Put  into  the  freezer,  and,  as 
soon  as  it  begins  to  congeal,  stir  in  the  whites  of  6  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Use  more  sugar  if  not  sufficiently 
sweet,  and  finish  freezing. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE. 

Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  berries.  Let  stand 
an  hour  or  two.  Put  through  a  strainer,  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  water,  and,  when  partly  frozen,  add  the  stiffly- 
beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  to  each  quart  of  the  mixture. 

WATERMELON  ICE. 

Take  a  very  ripe  and  very  red  melon.  Save  all  the 
water  and  scrape  the  red  pulp  fine.  Add  water,  being  care- 
ful to  have  melon  enough  for  a  strong  flavor.  Use  I  pound 
of  sugar  to  a  gallon.  Put  into  a  freezer,  and,  as  soon  as  it 
begins  to  freeze,  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a 
gallon.  Stir  often  and  very  thoroughly  from  the  bottom 
while  freezing.  If  liked  sweeter,  use  more  sugar.  It  will 
depend  largely  upon  the  ripeness  and  quality  of  the  melon. 


COFFEE.  TEA.  CHOCOLATE.  COCOA. 

SUMMER   DRINKS. 

POPULAR  mixture  of  coffee  for  boarding- 
houses  is  one-fourth  Java,  one-fourth  chic- 
ory, and  one-half  Rio,  mixed  and  ground 
together.  Very  good,  too.  The  chief  effect 
of  chicory  is  to  darken  the  color.  The  coffee 
we  prefer  in  our  family  is  equal  parts  of  Old 
Government  Java  and  Mocha,  but  a  very  delightful  mixture 
is  equal  parts  of  Java,  Mocha,  and  Rio.  [But  I  have  been 
informed  by  reputable  dealers  that  there  is  scarcely  any 
Mocha  imported  to  this  country  now,  so  we  probably  get  it 
only  in  name. — ED.] 

BROWNING  COFFEE. 

Look  the  coffee  berry  over,  picking  out  imperfect  kernels 
and  bits  of  grit.  Wash  and  dry  it  and  put  only  a  pound  or 
two  into  a  dripping-pan  for  one  browning.  The  oven  should 
be  hot,  but  not  hot  enough  to  scorch.  A  very  few  burnt 
grains  ground  up  would  spoil  the  flavor  of  the  whole. 
Watch  very  carefully  and  stir  thoroughly  from  the  outer 
edges  to  the  center,  and  vice  versa.  The  color  of  browned 
coffee  must  not  be  yellow,  but  a  very  decided  brown — not 
very  dark,  however.  When  partly  cool,  stir  a  beaten  egg  into 
it,  touching  every  kernel,  if  possible.  This  will  clarify  the 
coffee  when  prepared  for  drinking.  Some  prefer  the  use 
of  butter,  in  which  case  stir  a  small  lump  among  the  kernels 
while  hot.  Coffee  may  be  browned  in  a  spider  on  the 
stove  as  well  as  in  the  oven.  A  patent  coffee-roaster  is 
very  convenient  and  quite  a  luxury  for  the  kitchen.  Do 
*39 


306 

The  Coffee- Pot.  COFFEE.  Coffee  with  Egg. 

not  grind  coffee  into  a  fine  powder,  but  only  to  medium  fine- 
ness. And  do  not  grind  in  quantities  only  as  needed.  Keep 
closely-covered. 

THE  COFFEE-POT. 

A  very  important  factor  in  coffee-making  is  the  coffee- 
pot. It  must  be  kept  clean — and  to  do  this  it  must  be 
emptied  and  washed  thoroughly  after  every  time  of  using. 
This  applies  to  any  coffee-pot  in  use,  whether  the  common 
tin  or  the  drippers.  It  is  a  good  plan  occasionally  to  put  a 
teaspoon  of  common  saleratus  in  the  pot  with  half  a  pint 
or  more  of  water  and  let  it  boil  briskly  for  15  or  20  minutes. 
The  incrustation  will  be  loosened  and  a  thorough  cleansing 
effected. 

"TO  BOIL  OR  NOT  TO  BOIL." 

It  is  now  generally  conceded  that  coffee  is  better  not  to 
be  boiled.  A  thorough  steeping  will  draw  out  the  strength 
as  effectually  as  boiling.  If  allowed  to  boil,  the  tannic  acid 
is  extracted,  and  it  becomes  bitter  and  ,  unhealthy.  By 
combining  with  the  milk,  an  indigestible  substance  is 
formed  in  the  stomach.  To  keep  the  aroma  in  the  coffee- 
pot, the  spout  should  be  stopped  up,  either  with  a  cover  to 
fit,  or  a  cloth-stopper. 

COFFEE— WITH  BOILING  WATER. 
Put  the  required  amount  of  coffe  in  the  coffee-pot,  and 
pour  over  it  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Let  steep  about  5 
minutes  on  the  back  of  the  stove  ;  then  fill  up  with  boiling 
water.  Let  stand  5  or  10  minutes.  Pour  in  J  cup  of  cold 
water  to  settle  it,  unless  an  egg-shell  is  used.  Half  an  egg- 
shell, crushed,  to  a  quart  of  coffee  will  settle  it  nicely. 

COFFEE— WITH  EGG. 

A  tablespoon  of  ground  coffee  for  one  person,  3  table- 
spoons are  sufficient  for  4  persons.  Take  egg  enough  to 
moisten  the  coffee,  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  on  a  cup  of 
cold  water.  Set  on  the  hot  stove.  When  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  fill  witn  boiling  water  and  set  back  where  it  cannot 


307 

Steamed  COFFEE. 


boil.  If  it  is  necessary  to  use  cold  water  to  settle  coffee, 
take  a  little  in  a  cup  at  a  considerable  height  above  the 
coffee-pot,  and  pour  it  in.  A  little  salt  is  always  good. 

STEAMED  COFFEE. 

John  McGovern,  Chicago. 

Have  a  tinner  make  an  inside  can  something  like  a 
"plug  hat,"  with  a  rim  to  fit  any  common,  large  coffee-pot. 
On  the  inside  of  the  pot,  a  little  below  the  top,  set  out  4 
tin  shoulders  to  catch  the  rim  of  the  inside  can  as  it  is  set 
down  into  the  pot.  The  bottom  of  the  inside  can  should 
almost  touch  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  Put  the  required 
amount  of  coffee  and  water  in  this  inside  can.  Then  hang 
the  can  in  about  3  inches  of  boiling  water  in  the  pot.  It 
will  cook  in  about  20  minutes,  the  same  as  oatmeal  is  cooked, 
and  is  done  when  the  grounds  sink. 

DRIPPED    COFFEE. 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Callahan,  Tangipahoa,  La. 

Provide  yourself  with  a  dripper.  It  should  be  f  the  size 
of  the  coffee-pot,  to  drip  well.  Put  the  amount  of  ground 
coffee  required  in  the  bottom  of  the  dripper.  Be  sure  that 
the  water  is  actually  boiling,  and  do  not  pour  on  the  water 
until  you  are  ready  to  serve  it.  Scald  the  coffee-pot,  and 
pour  in  the  upper  part  of  the  dripper  as  many  cups  of 
water  as  you  wish  coffee,  and  an  extra  half  cup.  See  that 
the  dripper  fits  tightly,  and  has  a  tight  cover.  Never  let  the 
coffee  boil,  and  do  not  let  it  stand  and  get  cold.  Stir  'sugar 
and  cream  well  together  in  the  cup,  and  pour  in  the  coffee. 
Do  not  stir  after  the  coffee  is  in  the  cup,  as  it  makes  it  stale. 

COFFEE  FOR  FESTIVALS. 

Put  the  ground  coffee  into  flannel  bags,  each  holding  half 
a  pound,  and  sew  up  tightly.  When  the  first  coffee  is 
wanted,  put  as  much  water  in  a  wash-boiler  as  will  be  re- 
quired ;  when  it  boils  throw  in  a  couple  of  the  bags  and 
steep  long  enough  to  extract  the  strengh.  Then  take  out. 
Add  boiling  water  when  necessary,  and  throw  in  another 


308 

Vienna  Coffee.  COFFEE— TEA.  Cream  Substitute. 


bag,  letting  it  remain  as  before.  In  this  way,  by  removing 
the  old  and  adding  the  new,  the  beverage  will  be  kept 
aromatic  as  well  as  strong,  and  the  bitterness  of  long-boiled 
coffee  prevented. 

VIENNA  COFFEE. 

Make  your  coffee  in  your  usual  way.  Put  one  quart  of 
cream  into  an  oatmeal  cooker,  or,  if  you  have  none,  into  a 
pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Keep  the  water  boil- 
ing. Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  put  with  it  3  table- 
spoons cold  milk,  mix  well  and  add  to  the  cream  after  re- 
moving from  the  fire.  Stir  briskly  for  a  minute  and  serve 
in  the  coffee  cups  with  the  coffee. 

RYE  COFFEE. 

Wash  and  roast  until  the  kernel  is  very  brown.  Grind  it 
and  steep  as  other  coffee. 

CREAM   SUBSTITUTE. 

Take  fresh  milk,  put  it  in  an  oatmeal  cooker,  or  in  a  pail 
set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Let  cook  a  long  time, 
stirring  often  until  it  becomes  rich  and  creamy.  The  yolk 
of  an  egg  beaten  well,  and  a  pint  of  the  heated  milk  poured 
over  it  gives  it  a  still  richer  consistence. 

TEA. 

"  Except  the  water  boiling  be, 
Filling  the  tea-pot  spoils  the  tea." 

After  scalding  the  tea-pot,  put  in  a  teaspoon  of  tea  for 
one  person,  but  of  course  a  less  proportion  if  for  many  per- 
sons. Pour  less  than  a  cup  of  actually  boiling  and  freshly- 
boiled  water  on.  Let  steep  on  the  back  of  the  stove  a  short 
time,  and  fill  up  the  required  amount  with  boiling  water. 
Japan  tea  is  better  for  families  whose  meals  are  kept  wait- 
ing. Its  flavor  is  not  injured  by  long  standing  as  much  as 
many  other  teas.  If  tea  boils,  the  tannic  acid  is  extracted 
and  acts  with  very  bad  effects  on  the  coats  of  the  stomach. 
Black  tea  is  generally  regarded  as  wholesome.  It  should 
steep  10  or  15  minutes;  green  tea,  about  3  minutes. 


309 

Freezing  Mixture.  TEA— CHOCOLATE— COCOA.  Soda-Water. 


ICED  TEA. 

It  is  better  to  put  the  tea  in  cold  water  and  set  in  the  ice- 
box the  morning  of  the  day  it  is  to  be  used  for  supper. 
The  flavor  is  better  than  if  steeped  in  hot  water. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape  fine  about  one  square  of  a  cake,  add  it  to  an  equal 
quantity  of  sugar;  put  these  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and 
water  (half  and  half)  and  stir  constantly  for  2  or  3  minutes. 
Some  prefer  boiling  TO  minutes. 

EGG  CHOCOLATE. 

Allow  about  T  egg  to  2  cups.  Prepare  this  chocolate 
as  above,  and  the  last  thing  pour  it  over  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  at  the  same  time  have  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  put  a  little  on  top  of  each  cup 
(very  hot)  and  serve. 

BREAKFAST  COCOA. 

Put  a  teaspoon  of  the  powder  into  a  breakfast  cup,  add  a 
tablespoon  of  boiling  water  and  mix  thoroughly.  Then 
add  equal  parts  of  boiling  water  and  boiled  milk,  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  Let  it  boil  a  couple  of  minutes. 

COCOA  SHELLS. 

Take  about  2  ounces  of  the  shells  and  pour  3  pints  of 
boiling  water  over  them.  Boil  rapidly  half  an  hour.  Serve 
like  coffee. 

A  FREEZING   MIXTURE. 

Put  2  ounces  refined  niter  in  a  stone  bottle.  Nearly  nil 
the  bottle  with  hot  water  (spring  water  if  you  can  get  it). 
Cork  the  bottle  and  let  it  down  in  a  well  or  cistern.  In  2 
or  3  hours  it  will  be  frozen  and  the  bottle  must  be  broken. 
Leave  room  at  the  top  for  about  a  pint. 

BOTTLED  SODA-WATER. 

One  quart  water,  2  pounds  white  sugar,  I  oimce  tartaric 
acid,  J  ounce  essence,  2  lemons,  2  eggs  beaten,  i  tablespoon 


3io 

Cream  Nectar.  SUMMER    DRINKS.  Ginger  Pop. 

flour.  Strain,  bottle,  and  shake  every  day  for  a  week. 
When  you  wish  a  glass  of  soda-water,  take  ^  cream,  f 
water,  and  add  }2  teaspoon  stfda  ;  stir,  and  drink  immedi- 
ately. You  can  use  sassafras,  winter-green,  or  any  other 
essence  you  wish.  Some  prefer  to  flavor  it  to  taste  when 
preparing  it  to  drink.  Be  sure  to  use  bicarbonate  of  soda, 
and  buy  it  of  a  druggist. 

CREAM  NECTAR. 

Three  pounds  white  sugar,  2  ounces  tartaric  acid,  put  into 
a  quart  of  soft  water  over  night.  Then  stir  in  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Use  any  flavoring  desired.  Bot- 
tle, and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Three  tablespoons  of  it  to  I 
glass  ice-water.  Soda  enough  to  make  it  effervesce.  After 
one  trial  you  can  determine  the  amount  of  soda.  The  soda 
should  be  put  into  the  water  first. 

CREAM  SODA. 

Mrs.  Hattie  A.  Harris,  Clinton,  Iowa. 

It  is  an  effervescent  drink,  and  much  pleasanter,  I  think, 
than  soda-water.  Two  ounces  tartaric  acid,  2  pounds  white 
sugar,  juice  of  I  lemon,  3  pints  water  ;  boil  together  5  min- 
utes ;  when  nearly  cold,  add,  after  beating  together,  the 
whites  of  3  eggs,  \  cup  flour,  and  \  ounce  of  essence  of 
winter-green.  Some  other  essence  may  be  used  if  preferred. 
After  being  well  mixed,  bottle  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 
For  a  drink  of  this,  take  2  tablespoons  of  the  syrup  to  I  tum- 
bler of  water,  and  add  \  teaspoon  soda.  Drink  quickly. 

GINGER    NECTAR. 

Ten  gallons  water,  15  pounds  loaf  sugar,  whites  of  6 
eggs  well  beaten  and  strained  ;  mix  all  together,  then  boil 
and  skim.  Put  in  \  pound  of  ginger,  boil  20  minutes. 
When  cool,  put  in  the  juice  and  rind  of  4  or  5  lemons, 
also  2  tablespoons  of  good  yeast,  stir  well  together,  bottle 
and  cork  tight. 

GINGER  POP. 
Water,  5.3  gallons  ;  ginger  root,  bruised,  \  pound  ;  tartaric 


Grape  Cordial.  SUMMER  DRINKS.  Lemonade 

acid,  ^  ounce  ;  white  sugar,  2\  pounds  ;  whites  of  3  eggs, 
well  beaten  ;  lemon  oil,  I  teaspoon  ;  yeast,  I  gill.  Boil 
the  root  for  30  minutes  in*i  gallon  of  the  water,  strain  off 
and  put  the  oil  in  while  hot.  Then  let  cool  and  mix  all 
together.  Make  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  skim  and 
bottle,  keeping  out  sediment. 

GRAPE  CORDIAL. 

Juice  of  2  pounds  grapes,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  and  I 
cup  cold  water.  Drink  with  ice. 

HYDROMEL. 

The  proportion  is  2\  pounds  honey  to  a  gallon  of  warm 
water.  When  the  honey  is  completely  incorporated  with 
the  water,  pour  into  a  cask.  When  fermented  and  clear, 
bottle  and  cork  tightly.  A  wholesome  drink,  if  properly 

prepared. 

HARVEST   DRINK. 

One  cup  vinegar,  I  tablespoon  ginger,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

and  i  quart  water. 

IMPERIAL. 

Two  ounces  cream  of  tartar,  juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons  ; 
put  into  a  stone  jar,  pour  over  it  7  quarts  boiling  water,  stir 
and  cover  closely  ;  when  cold,  sweeten  to  taste,  strain  and 

bottle. 

LEMONADE. 

One  large  lemon  will  make  four  good  glasses.  Peel  the 
lemon.  Cut  it  in  two.  Put  half  at  a  time  in  the  lemon- 
squeezer,  squeeze  gently  into  the  pitcher,  open  the  squeezer 
and  turn  the  piece  over,  squeeze  again,  then  drop  the  entire 
pulp  into  the  pitcher.  Stir  in  4  tablespoons  sugar  and  mix 
thoroughly  with  the  juice  and  pulp.  Add  a  quart  of  water 
and  stir  well  together.  If  made  for  a  company  and  it  is 
desired  to  have  it  look  very  clear,  remove  carefully  all  of 
the  pulp  and  seeds,  after  squeezing,  and  take  a  firm  whole 
lemon  with  the  peeling  on  and  slice  just  as  thin  as  possible 
into  the  lemonade. 


312 

Mead.  SUMMER  DRINKS.  Mixed  Syrups. 

POWDERED   LEMONADE. 

One  pound  white  sugar,  I  ounce  tartaric  acid,  A  ounce 
essence  of  lemon.  Mix  and  dry.  One  tablespoon  in  a 
glass  of  water  makes  a  very  good  substitute  for  fresh 
lemonade. 

PORTABLE    LEMONADE, 

Twelve  lemons,  squeeze  the  juice.  Boil  the  pulp  in  a 
pint  of  water.  Add  this  to  the  juice  and  to  each  pint  add  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Boif  10  minutes.  Seal  up.  Use  I  table- 
spoon to  a  glass  of  water. 

LEMON  SODA. 

Ten  gallons  water,  6  peeled  lemons  sliced,  J  pound  ginger, 
J  pound  cream  of  tartar.  3  grated  nutmegs.  Boil  all  to- 
gether, When  cool  enough,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  6 
eggs  and  J  pint  yeast,  and  let  it  ferment  12  hours.  Strain 
and  bottle.  It  is  better  after  standing  a  day  or  two. 

LEMON  SYRUP. 

To  each  pint  of  lemon-juice  allow  ij  pounds  of  sugar. 
Let  boil  together  gently  for  10  minutes  ;  then  seal  up  in 
bottles  or  jars! 

MEAD. 

Quarter  pound  tartaric  acid,  3  pounds  brown  sugar,  3 
quarts  boiling  water,  I  ounce  sassafras  essence,  J  ounce 
extract  sarsaparilla. 

MIXED  SYRUPS. 

Mix  raspberries  and  cherries,  currants  and  raspberries, 
and  make  syrups.  Or  add  lemon-juice  to  pine-apple  syrup, 
or  to  any  other  preferred.  Or  any  fruit-juice  may  be 
mixed  with  any  other  juice  or  syrup. 

MULLED  CIDER. 

One  quart  cider.  Boil  .*  and  put  in  a  handful  of  cloves. 
Beat  6  eggs  in  a  vessel  and  add  sugar  ..^  make  very  sweet. 
When  beaten  very  light,  pour  the  boiling  cider  over  the 
eggs,  and  stir  well  and  pour  back  and  forth  from  one  vessel 
to  the  other  till  it  is  all  frothy.  Serve  warm  in  glasses. 


313 

Orgeat.  SUMMER   DRINKS.  Nectar. 

ORGEAT. 

Put  a  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  in  a  quart  of  milk.  Boil, 
let  cool,  remove  the  cinnamon.  Blanch  and  reduce  to  a 
paste  4  ounces  sweet  almonds.  Mix  with  the  milk,  add 
J  cup  sugar  (more  or  less  according  to  taste),  let  boil  3  to 
5  minutes.  Strain  through  a  fine  strainer  or  sieve,  and  serve 
in  glasses,  either  warm  or  cold. 

ORANGE  SYRUP. 

Take  fully  ripe  fruit,  and  thin  skinned  if  you  can  get  them. 
Squeeze  juice  through  a  sieve  and  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
every  pint.  Boil  slowly  for  10  minutes.  Skim  carefully. 
Bottle  when  cold.  Two  or  three  spoons  of  this  in  a  glass 
of  ice  water  in  summer  is  refreshing.  It  may  also  be  used 
with  melted  butter  for  pudding-sauce. 

PINE-APPLE  SYRUP. 

Pare  and  cut  the  pine-apples  in  pieces  and  add  a  quart  of 
water  to  3  pounds.  Boil  till  very  soft.  Mash  and  strain. 
To  a  pint  of  this  juice  add  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  to  a 
rich  syrup,  and  cork  tightly. 

RASPBERRY  NECTAR. 

Pour  over  2  quarts  of  ripe  raspberries  I  quart  vinegar. 
Let  stand  till  the  fruit  ferments  ;  strain,  and  to  every  pint 
of  juice  add  |  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Simmer  20  minutes. 
Bottle  while  hot. 

CIDER— TO   KEEP. 

Take  cider  at  the  exact  stage  in  which  you  wish  it  kept, 
heat  it  to  boiling,  skim  very  carefully,  pour  into  bottles,  jugs, 
or  glass  jars,  and  seal  up  hot. 

SUGAR  NECTAR. 

Two  pounds  loaf  sugar,  3  pints  water,  juice  of  ^  lemon,  2 
ounces  tartaric  acid.  Boil  all  5  minutes.  When  nearly 

cool,  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten  and  ^  cup  flour. 
*4o 


Syrup  of  Vinegar.  SUMMER  DRINKS.  Strawberry  Syrup. 


SYRUP  OF  VINEGAR. 

Four  quarts  vinegar  and  2  pounds  sugar  boiled  until  a 
clear  syrup.  Bottle  it.  One  or  2  tablespoons  to  a  glass  of 
water  is  an  agreeable  beverage. 

UNFERMENTED   WINE. 

Mash  the  grapes,  press  out  the  juice.  Sweeten  to  suit  the 
taste.  Fill  the  bottles,  set  them  on  a  thin  board  or  founda- 
tion of  some  sort  in  a  boiler,  fill  to  the  neck  of  the  bottles 
with  water,  bring  it  to  a  boil  and  let  it  boil  for  10  minutes. 
Then  to  make  up  the  loss  by  settling  and  evaporation,  use 
one  bottle  to  fill  the  rest  from,  and  cork  up  while  hot. 

Unfermented  Wine. 

Pick  grapes  from  the  stems.  Weigh  them.  Put  in  a 
porcelain  kettle  with  very  little  water  (to  keep  from  burn- 
ing). Cook  until  stones  and  pulp  separate.  Press  and  strain 
through  a  thick  cloth,  return  to  the  kettle  and  add  3  pounds 
sugar  to  every  10  pounds  of  grapes.  Heat  to  simmering, 
bottle  hot  and  seal. 

REFRESHING  DRINK. 

A  quart  of  unfermented  wine,  2  quarts  water,  with  \ 
lemon,  sugar,  and  cracked  ice  is  a  drink  that  has  no  head- 
aches in  it.^ 

STRAWBERRY  SYRUP. 

Heat  the  berries  until  soft,  then  strain  the  juice.  Allow 
a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint.  Let  come  to  a  boil  ;  skim, 
then  boil  gently  10  minutes,  and  seal  up. 


FRESH.  CANNED.    SAUCE.    JELLY.   PRESERVES. 


FtRESH'  FRUITS. 


rRESH  FRUITS,  if  thoroughly  ripe,  are  more  palat- 
able and  more  healthful  than  if  cooked  They 
should  be  looked  over  and  sorted  carefully. 
Reserve  the  finest  for  immediate  table  use, 
and  put  aside  the  bruised  and  imperfect  to 
be  cooked  as  soon  as  possible.  Unless  pos- 
itive decay  has  set  in,  they  may  be  stewed,  and  utilized 

in  various  ways. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Do  not  wash  unless  absolutely  necessary.  If  it  is  neces- 
sary, take  a  few  at  a  time  before  hulling,  put  into  a  basin  of 
water,  and  press  down  till  they  look  clean  ;  then  the 
remainder,  and  then  remove  the  hulls.  Sprinkle  with  sugar 
just  before  serving.  Serve  with  cream  that  has  been  on  ice. 

RASPBERRIES. 

After  looking  over  carefully  (they  are  very  apt  to  have 
small  worms  lurking  in  their  midst),  put  into  a  preserve  or 
berry-dish.  Do  not  wash  unless  absolutely  necessary.  It 
is  just  as  well  to  serve  without  sugar,  as  many  persons  like 
them  with  very  little,  or  none  at  all.  The  cream  and  sugar 
may  be  passed  at  table. 

BLACKBERRIES  AND  DEWBERRIES. 

Serve  the  same  as  raspberries. 

BANANAS. 

A  very  delicate  dish  is  made  by  pouring  sweetened  cream 
over  sliced  bananas  ;  or  they  may  be  served  whole. 


Cocoanut.  FRESH  FRUITS.  Grapes, 


COCOANUT. 

Grate  a  cocoanut  into  a  preserve-dish,  and  serve  with 
cream  or  jelly,  or  both. 

PEACHES. 

Pare  and  cut  in  halves.  Remove  the  pits.  To  preserve 
their  freshness,  prepare  them  just  before  serving.  Sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar.  Ornament  the  edges  of  the  dish 
with  fresh  peach-leaves,  if  they  can  be  had.  Serve  in  sauce- 
dishes,  and  pass  the  cream  around  in  a  pitcher. 

PEARS. 

Wipe  very  clean,  and  serve  in  a  fruit-dish,  either  alone  or 
with  other  fruit.  The  Bartlett  is  the  best. 

APPLES. 

Fine,  smoothed-skinned  apples  rubbed  with  a  cloth  till 
bright  and  glossy  are  ornamental  to  any  fruit-dish,  as  well 
as  a  nice  accompainment  to  a  breakfast  or  dessert. 

ORANGES. 

Cut  the  peel  in  quarters  from  the  stem  halfway  down- 
ward. Turn  it  outward,  leaving  the  white  orange  in  a 
little  cap,  from  which  it  is  easily  taken.  A  pile  of  oranges 
prepared  in  this  way  makes  a  very  handsome  center-piece. 

LA  COMPOSITE. 

A  layer  of  peeled  .and  sliced  oranges  sprinkled  with 
sugar.  Alternate  with  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  bananas 
sprinkled  lightly  with  sugar.  Set  on  ice. 

AMBROSIA. 

Peel  and  slice  oranges  and  place  in  alternate  layers  with 
pine-apple  also  peeled  and  sliced.  Sprinkle  each  layer 
with  sugar  and  grated  cocoanut.  The  pine-apple  may  be 

omitted. 

GRAPES. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  dwell  upon  the  beauty  of  grapes  as 
a  center-piece  on  a  table,  or  their  healthfulness  and  luscious- 


317 

FRESH  FRUITS.  Me'.ons. 


ness.     They  can  scarcely  be  served  too  often  in  their  sea- 
son.    The  Malaga,  Delaware,  and  Concord  are  the  favorites. 

GRAPES  FRESH  FOR  WINTER. 

Pick  off  full  clusters,  removing  every  bruised  one.  Dip 
the  end  of  the  stem  in  sealing-wax,  then  wrap  each  bunch 
in  tissue  paper  and  pack  in  boxes  in  layers,  with  paper 
between.  Close  up  the  box  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  room, 
and  you  are  sure  of  success. 

RAISINS. 
The  London  layers  are  the  finest  brand  for  the  table. 

FROSTED  FRUIT. 

Take  large  ripe  cherries,  apricots,  plums,  or  grapes  ;  if 
cherries,  cut  off  half  the  stem  ;  have  in  one  dish  some  whites 
of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  in  another  some  powdered  sugar; 
take  the  fruit  singly,  and  roll  first  in  the  egg  and  then  in  the 
sugar  ;  lay  them  on  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  in  a  sieve,  and 
set  it  on  top  of  the  stove  or  near  the  fire  until  the  icing 
hardens. 

ICED  CURRANTS. 

Dip  whole  stems  of  currants  into  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Sift  white  sugar  over  them.  Set  near  the  stove  to  harden. 

MELONS. 

Melons  are  appropriate  breakfast  dishes  as  a  first  course, 
although  they  may  be  used  as  desserts  at  dinner  with  equal 
propriety.  Do  not  serve  melons  with  fruits.  They  should 
be  fresh  when  eaten.  In  selecting,  notice  the  stem  if  still 
on.  If  it  breaks  easily  and  looks  fresh,  it  is  a  good  indica- 
tion of  the  ripeness  and  freshness  of  the  melon.  But  if  it 
adheres  with  the  firmness  of  a  rock  the  melon  is  unripe. 
Cantaloupes,  muskmelons,  and  nutmegs  are  very  similar. 

WATERMELON. 

Keep  on  jce  till  wanted.  Put  on  a  large  platter  and  serve 
in  crosswise  slices,  leaving  the  rind  on. 


Almonds.  .         CANNED  FRUITS.  Sealing-Wax.    . 

NUTMEG  MELONS. 

Cut  in  lengthwise  sections  from  the  stem  down,  being 
careful  to  avoid  giving  the  seeds  with  the  melon.  Pepper, 
salt,  and  sugar  are  used  singly  or  collectively  by  different 
persons. 

ALMONDS. 

The  long  Jordan  almonds  and  the  broad  Valencia  almonds 
are  most  valued  in  commerce.  A  nut-cracker  should  be 
placed  in  the  dish,  unless  the  nuts  are  cracked  beforehand. 


FRUITS. 


By  the  canning  process,  fruits  are  preserved  by  simply 
cooking  them  and  sealing  up  immediately,  boiling  hot,  in  air- 
tight glass  jars  or  tin  cans.  They  will  keep  almost  any 
length  of  time  and  retain  their  flavor  in  a  remarkable 
degree. 

In  our  chapter  on  Fruits,  the  terms  can  and  jar  are  used 
interchangeably. 

In  very  small  families,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  use  pint  jars. 
If  the  rubber  rings  become  hard  and  inflexible,  put  them  in 
water  and  ammonia  —  I  part  of  the  former  to  2  of  the  latter  — 
and  let  stay  half  an  hour.  It  will  restore  their  elasticity. 

Very  small  fruit  is  put  up  in  bottles  successfully.  The 
corks  should  fit  tightly  and  be  sealed  with  sealing-wax. 

The  proportions  for  sealing-wax  are  8  ounces  rosin,  i 
ounce  beeswax,  and  less  than  an  ounce  (perhaps  |  of  an 
ounce)  of  beef  tallow.  Melt  slowly  and  pour  over  corks  or 
in  the  grooves  of  covers  when  well  heated  through,  but  not 
boiling  hot.  It  must  simply  be  melted  sufficiently  to  be 
well  mixed  together. 

When  the  top  of  a  glass  jar  refuses  to  yield  to  all  efforts 
at  unscrewing,  hold  a  hot  cloth  around  it,  and  it  will  soon 


319 

Canning.  CANNED  FRUITS.  Strawberries. 


succumb.  In  opening  a  tin  can  of  fruit,  empty  the  contents 
immediately,  even  if  it  is  not  all  to  be  used  at  the  time. 
Fruit  acids  in  tin  are  said  to  produce  poisons  when  exposed 
to  the  air. 

Tin  should  not  be  used  for  acid  fruits.  The  acid  cor- 
rodes it. 

Boiling  hot  fruit  or  fruit  juices  may  be  poured  into  glass 
jars  without  danger  of  breakage,  if  the  jar  is  set  on  a  folded 
wet  towel  during  the  pouring.  A  silver  spoon  put  into  the 
jar  while  being  filled  will  also  insure  it  against  breaking. 
Some  persons  use  both  means  at  the  same  time  for  still  fur- 
ther safety. 

The  methods  I  give  for  canning  small  fruits  are  the  sim- 
plest I  ever  saw,  and  the  results  are  the  nearest  to  fresh 
fruits  I  ever  tasted.  It  is  all  fruit  with  no  dilution  what- 
ever. Sugar  may  be  omitted  if  desired,  which  will  lessen 
the  expense  of  canning  considerably.  One  can  of  this  fruit 
is  equal  to  3  that  you  buy,  and  the  expense  of  canning  in 
the  city  is  about  the  same  per  can  as  the  price  at  the  stores. 

STRAWBERRIES— TO    CAN. 

Mrs.    F.    McKercher,  Chicago. 

Look  over  carefully,  and  fill  your  cans,  as  many  as  will 
stand  in  your  wash  boiler.  Put  sugar  enough  in  each  can  to 
sweeten  for  the  table.  Pack  the  jars  full,  and  screw  the 
covers  on,  but  do  not  put  on  the  rubber  bands.  Put  cold 
water  in  the  boiler,  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  jars.  It  is 
safer  to  stand  them  on  something  in  the  boiler.  Pieces  of 
berry-boxes  answer  every  purpose.  Let  the  water  boil  20 
minutes.  Then  remove  a  couple  of  the  jars.  Take  off  the 
covers.  The  fruit  will  have  settled  down  some.  Fill  one  up 
from  the  other.  Put  on  the  rubber  band  and  seal  up.  Then 
take  another  from  the  boiler,  and  fill  it  up  from  the  same 
jar.  If  you  fill  13  to  start  with,  it  will  take  about  3  of  them 
to  fill  up  the  other  10  that  have  settled.  After  canned 
fruit  stands  all  night,  it  is  safer  to  use  a  little  wrench  to  g"»Ve 
an  extra  turn  to  the  cover  before  putting  away  fc 


320 

Raspberries.  CANNED  FRUITS.  Pie- Plant 

RASPBERRIES,  ETC.— TO  CAN. 

To  can  raspberries,  blackberries,  gooseberries,  huckle- 
berries, plums,  cherries,  grapes,  currants,  or  any  small  fruits, 
proceed  exactly  as  with  strawberries.  I  should  also  in- 
clude peaches  in  this  list. 

ELDERBERRIES— TO   CAN. 

Put  them  into  bottles  and  set  into  a  boiler  of  water  and 
proceed  as  in  canning  fruit,  only  the  bottles  may  be  filled  up 
with  boiling  water  ;  after  settling,  cork  up  and  seal.  These 
berries  are  nearly  as  good  for  winter  pies  as  huckleberries. 

PEACHES— TO    CAN. 

Dip  a  basket  of  peaches  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  lor 
a  moment.  Then  dip  in  cold  water.  The  peeling  process 
is  very  simple  after  this,  as  it  will  slip  off  very  easily.  The 
fruit  should  be  ripe  and  firm,  to  peel  in  this  manner.  Di- 
vide the  peaches  in  halves,  remove  the  pits,  and  place  on 
a  plate  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water.  The  steamer  may 
be  half  filled.  Let  steam  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them 
easily.  In  the  meantime  prepare  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar 
and  water  in  the  proportion  of  a  quart  of  water  to  a  pint 
of  sugar.  Let  boil  and  skim.  Fill  the  can  with  peaches. 
Pour  the  hot  syrup  over  until  the  can  will  hold  no  more. 
Seal  immediately.  The  next  day  give  an  extra  turn  to  the 
cover  with  a  wrench  for  that  purpose. 

PEARS— TO   CAN. 

Peel  and  cut  in  halves,  or,  if  preferred,  leave  whole, 
Steam  them  as  directed  for  peaches.  It  will  take  longer. 
When  the  syrup  is  ready,  add  the  pears  to  it  for  a  moment. 
Then  dip  them  into  cans  and  proceed  exactly  as  with 
peaches. 

PIE-PLANT— TO  CAN. 

Cut  in  inch  pieces  and  stew  with  its  own  weight  of  sugar 
slowly,  until  tender.  Add  only  water  enough  to  dissolve 
sugar.  Seal  up.  Can  without  sugar,  if  more  convenient. 


321 

Pine-Apple.  CANNED  FRUITS.  Pumpkin. 

PINE-APPLE—TO   CAN. 

Mrs.  M.  Jones,  Chicago. 

Pare  the  pine-apples  and  cut  into  inch  squares.  Allow  | 
pound  sugar  to  each  pound  of  prepared  fruit.  Melt  the 
sugar  in  just  water  enough  to  dissolve  it.  When  it  comes 
to  a  boil  put  in  the  fruit  and  cook  till  tender.  Put  immedi- 
ately into  cans  and  seal  up  hot. 

APPLES— TO    CAN. 

Cut  apples  up  and  stew  either  with  or  without  sugar. 
Seal  up  as  other  fruit. 

TOMATOES— TO  CAN. 

Miss  Genie  Westgate,  Uniondale,  Pa. 

Pour  on  boiling  water  to  loosen  the  skin.  Peel  carefully. 
Put  them  whole  into  a  saucepan  or  other  vessel  and  let  scald 
through  thoroughly.  Add  a  little  water  if  necessary.  Seal 
up  either  in  glass  or  tin.  If  glass  is  used,  wrap  it  in  paper  to 
exclude  the  light.  If  simply  scalded,  they  can  be  served  as 
fresh  tomatoes,  and  taste  almost  as  well.  Tin  is  generally 
regarded  in  better  favor  than  glass  for  tomatoes. 

Tomatoes — To  Can. 

Peel  and  cut  small.  Put  into  a  saucepan  or  preserving 
kettle  without  water.  Let  cook  until  done  sufficiently  for 
the  table.  Seal  up  hot.  If  glass  is  used,  wrap  in  paper  to 
keep  it  dark.  Be  sure  and  give  the  cover  an  extra  turn  the 
next  day. 

PUMPKIN— TO  CAN. 

Cut  the  pumpkin,  remove  the  inside,  leave  the  peel  on 
and  bake  until  done.  It  will  peel  out  of  the  shell  easily. 
Then  mash  it  and  fill  the  cans  and  seal  up  the  same  as  fruit. 
It  cannot  be  told  from  fresh  pumpkin. 


322 

Apple  Croutes.  FRUIT  SAUCE.  Apples  In  Jelly. 

FRUIT  SAUCE. 

Earthern  milk  crocks  unglazed  are  best  adapted  for  stew- 
ing berries  or  any  sauce,  or  for  boiling  jelly,  rice,  and  other 
things,  as  tin  or  iron  injures  the  delicate  flavor  and  color  of 
fruits,  and  porcelain  kettles  are  expensive  and  scorch  easily. 
I  have  used  these  earthen  crocks  for  years  with  but  one  ac- 
cident. Let  water  heat  gradually  several  times  in  them 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  when  new,  to  temper  them.  You 
will  prefer  them  to  anything  else  for  cooking  as  above. 

APPLE  CROUTES. 

Miss  Juliet  Corson. 

Take  slices  of  stale  bread.  Trim  off  the  crusts  and  shape 
them  prettily  to  suit  the  size  of  the  apple.  Spread  with  a 
little  butter,  and  a  sprinkling  of  sugar.  On  each  slice  lay 
half  an  apple  peeled  and  cored,  flat  side  down,  a  bit  of  butter, 
more  sugar  on  the  apples,  spice,  if  liked.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar  before  serving. 

APPLES  IN  JELLY. 

Peel,  halve,  and  core  6  large  apples,  selecting  those  of  the 
same  size  ;  make  a  syrup  of  I  pound  of  granulated  sugar 
and  a  pint  of  water  ;  when  it  boils,  drop  in  the  apples  with 
the  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon.  As  soon  as  they  are  tender, 
care  must  be  taken  that  they  do  not  fall  in  pieces  ;  take  the 
halves  out  one  by  one,  and  arrange,  concave  side  uppermost, 
in  a  glass  dish.  Drop  a  bit  of  currant  jelly  into  each  piece  ; 
boil  down  the  syrup,  and,  when  cool,  pour  around  the 
apples.  This  makes  a  very  nice  preserve  for  tea. 

BOILED  APPLES. 

Place  fair,  smooth  apples  in  a  saucepan  with  just  enough 
water  to  cook  them,  and  boil  until  tender,  but  not  to  break 
them.  Put  in  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten  well,  and  let  cook 
until  apples  are  thoroughly  penetrated.  Skim  apples  out, 
cook  syrup  longer,  and  pour  over.  Do  not  peel  them. 


323 

Boiled  Apples.  FRUIT  SAUCE.  Baked  Apples. 

BOILED  APPLES— SPICED. 

Take  about  20  nice  cooking  apples,  wipe  them  clean,  and 
place  them  in  a  preserving-kettle,  with  water  enough  to 
about  half  cover  them  ;  then  add  2  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  vine- 
gar, and  a  dessert-spoon  of  ground  cinnamon.  Cover 
closely,  and  let  them  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  until  soft. 

DEW-DROP  APPLES. 

Pare  and  core,  without  splitting,  some  small-sized  tart 
apples,  and  boil  them  very  gently,  with  one  lemon  for  every 
6  apples,  till  a  straw  will  pass  through  them.  Make  a 
syrup  of  \  pound  of  white  sugar  for  each  pound  of  apples  ; 
put  the  apples,  unbroken,  and  the  lemons,  sliced,  into  the 
syrup,  and  boil  gently  till  the  apples  look  clear;  then  take 
them  up  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  them,  and  add  an 
ounce,  or  more,  of  clarified  isinglass  to  the  syrup,  and  let  it 
boil  up  ;  then  lay  a  slice  of  lemon  on  each  apple,  and  strain 
the  syrup  over  them. 

COMPOTE  OF  APPLES— BAKED. 
Take  a  wide  jar  with  a  cover ;  put  into  it  golden  pip- 
pins, or  any  small  apples  of  similar  appearance,  pared  and 
cored.  Cut  very  thin  a  small  fresh- rind  of  lemon  for  2 
quarts  of  apples  and  strew  among  them,  and  J  pound  of 
sugar  thrown  over  the  top.  Tie  the  cover  on  and  set  in  a 
slow  oven  for  several  hours.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Put  good  tart  apples  nicely  washed  in  a  pie-tin  and  bake 
until  done  in  a  moderate  oven.  Use  sweet  apples  if  wanted 
to  eat  in  milk.  Bake  rather  slowly. 

BAKED  SWEET  APPLES— TO  EAT  IN  MILK. 
Quarter  and  core  without  paring  ;  fill  a  dish  rounding  full, 
with  no  water.  Set  in  a  kettle  of  water  or  steamer,  and 
steam  till  nearly  soft,  then  put  in  the  oven,  with  a  plate 
over  them.  Let  them  bake  till  the  juice  is  nearly  cooked 
out.  Much  nicer  than  cooked  with  the  cores  in. 


Jellied  Apples.  FfiUIT  SAUCE.  Fried  Apples. 

JELLIED  APPLES. 

Slice  fresh  apples  and  put  in  pudding-dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  sugar.  Cover  with  a  plate  and  put  a  weight  on  it. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  3  hours.  A  delicious  dessert  of  slices 
of  apples  embedded  in  jelly  will  be  the  result  when  turned 
out  cold.  Better  cook  the  day  before  it  is  wanted. 

CIDER  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Cider  is  best  boiled  down  to  about  |  of  the  original 
quantity.  To  5  quarts  of  quartered  sweet  apples  add  I  pint 
of  boiled  sour  cider  and  I  pint  of  water.  Cover  with  a 
plate  and  cook  on  top  of  stove  ^  day. 

DRIED  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  Dr.  C.  H.  Evans,  Chicago. 

Two  pounds  dried  apples,  I  pound  raisins.  Put  in  a 
crock  with  plenty  of  water  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove. 
Let  boil  slowly  all  day.  When  almost  done,  add  I  lemon 
sliced  very  thin,  and  2  pounds  of  sugar.  Add  hot  water  as 
needed. 

STEWED  APPLES. 

Peel,  quarter,  and  core  apples.  Cover  with  water  and 
stew  until  tender.  Mash  with  a  spoon  until  very  smooth. 
Add  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Juicy,  tart  apples  make  the 
best  sauce. 

LEMON  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  sour  apples  until  you  have  3 
quarts.  Add  the  juice  and  finely-cut  rind  of  I  lemon  and 
1 1  cups  white  sugar  with  I  cup  water.  Stew  30  minutes. 
Add  more  water,  if  the  apples  are  not  very  juicy ;  and 
cook  a  snorter  time,  if  they  cook  very  quickly. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Miss  Juliet   Corson. 

Remove  the  cores  with  an  apple-corer.  Cut  the  slices 
round,  J  inch  thick.  Put  J  cup  drippings  or  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan. When  smoking  hot,  put  in  slices  enough  to  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Do  not 


.  325 

Quinces.  FRUIT  SAUCE.  Currants. 

let  them  break.     As  fast  as  done,  take  them  up  in  little  even 
piles,  4  or  5  together.     Keep  hot,  dust  a  little  sugar  over, 

and  serve. 

BAKED  QUINCES. 

Put  whole  ripe  quinces  in  the  oven  in  a  pan  and  bake 
thoroughly.  When  done,  remove  the  skins,  place  in  a  glass 
dish,  sprinkle  plentifully  with  sugar,  and  serve  with  cream. 

STEWED   BERRIES. 

Put  2  cups  dried  raspberries  into  8  cups  cold  water.  After 
they  have  come  to  a  boil,  cook  slowly  about  20  minutes. 
Add  ij  cups  sugar,  let  boil  up  and  take  off. 

[NOTE. — Dried  blackberries  or  other  berries,  are  cooked 
the  same  way.  A  good  mixture  is  equal  quantities  of  black- 
berries and  raspberries.] 

CRANBERRIES. 

Mrs.    J.  R.  Jackson,    Centerville,    Miss. 

To  i  quart  of  cranberries  put  I  cup  cold  water.  Cook  in 
porcelain  kettle  10  minutes.  Add  2  heaping  cups  sugar  and 
cook  10  minutes  longer.  Pour  into  a  mold,  and  when  cold 

it  will  be  jellied. 

Cranberries. 

A  pint  of  water  to  a  quart  of  berries.  Boil  till  soft,  put 
through  a  coarse  sieve  or  colander,  return  to  the  kettle,  put 
in  a  pint  of  sugar,  boil  up  and  take  off.  Less  sugar  may 
be  used  if  desired  very  tart. 

[NOTE. — If  boiling  water  is  poured  over  cranberries  and 
allowed  to  stay  till  nearly  cool  and  then  poured  off,  they 
will  require  considerably  less  sugar.] 

CRANBERRIES  AND  RAISINS. 

To  i  quart  cranberries  add  \  cup  raisins,  a  pint  of  sugar, 
and  a  pint  of  water.  Cook  in  earthen  or  porcelain  until 
the  berries  are  well  broken.  Watch  that  they  do  not  burn. 
Pour  into  a  sauce-dish  to  cool. 

GREEN  CURRANTS  AND  PIE-PLANT. 
Stew  together  and  make  palatably  sweet.      A  nice  sauce. 


326 

Stewed  Plums.  JELLY.  Making  Jelly. 

STEWED  PLUMS  AND   PRUNES. 
To  I  pound  prunes  take  J  or  J  pound  dried  plums.     Wash 
clean    and  stew  in    water  to   cover  for  J  hour.     Add  J  cup 
sugar,  or  more  if  liked  sweeter. 

STEWED  PEACHES. 

Dried  peaches  do  not  require  as  much  water  as  apples. 
Stew  faster  than  apples,  and  cook  about  £  hour,  putting  in 
the  sugar  required  while  cooking,  and  adding  water,  if 
needed  to  make  more  juicy. 

STEWED  PRUNES. 

Wash  the  prunes  in  several  waters.  Cover  with  cold 
water  and  set  on  back  of  stove  for  2  or  3  hours,  to  barely 
simmer.  Half  an  hour  before  taking  them  off,  make  quit 
sweet  with  sugar. 

STEWED  RAISINS. 

Allow  3^  cups  water  to  I  cup  whole  raisins.  Stew 
45  minutes.  Add  i  tablespoon  sugar  and  i  teaspoon 
lemon  juice.  Will  serve  4  or  5  persons.  It  is  insipid 
without  the  lemon-juice. 


JELLY. 

In  making  jelly,  it  is  safer  to  make  but  a  quart  or  two  at 
one  boiling.  By  adopting  the  plan  of  heating  the  sugar  be- 
fore adding  it  to  the  juice,  the  labor  is  very  much  reduced, 
and  much  more  can  be  accomplished  than  by  the  old 
method.  Use  a  porcelain  kettle  or  bright  tin.  Brass  may 
be  used,  but  must  be  cleansed  very  thoroughly  beforehand, 
and  the  jelly  should  not  remain  in  it  any  length  of  time. 
Do  not  allow  jelly  to  stop  boiling.  Sometimes  when  it  will 
not  harden  it  may  be  traced  to  this  cause.  Make  jelly  on 
a  bright,  sunshiny  day.  The  weather  affects  it  to  quite  an 


327 

ToTes:  JELLY.  Blackberry. 

extent.  When  ready  to  fill  jelly-glasses,  set  the  glasses  on  a 
folded  wet  towel,  and  if  thought  best  to  still  further  temper 
them  put  a  spoon  into  each  glass  as  you  fill  it.  The  condition 
of  the  fruit  makes  a  vast  difference  in  the  quality  of  the  jelly. 
Those  who  raise  their  own  understand  this  fact,  while  those 
who  are  dependent  upon  a  city  market  can  only  select  from 
the  stock  on  hand.  Fruit  makes  better  jelly  if  not  over  ripe. 
Some  of  the  nicest  I  ever  saw  was  made  of  green  grapes. 

To  preserve  fruit  jellies  from  mold,  cover  the  surface  one- 
fourth  of  an  inch  deep  with  fine  sugar. 

TO  TEST  JELLY. 

Test  jelly  by  dipping  some  into  a  cold  saucer.  Set  the 
dish  on  ice  or  in  a  cold  place.  If  it  hardens  at  the  edges 
without  spreading,  it  is  done.  Or  the  more  common  way  is 
to  dip  a  spoonful  into  a  glass  of  cold  water — ice-cold  if  pos- 
sible. If  it  drops  to  the  bottom  without  incorporating  itself 
with  the  water,  it  is  done. 

TO  TURN  JELLY  OUT  OF  A  MOLD. 
Dip  the  glass  or  mold  in  hot  water  for  a  moment  and  the 
contents  will  come  out  unbroken. 

APPLE   JELLY. 

Take  tart  apples  and  cut  them  up.  Add  a  little  water, 
and  let  boil  until  it  becomes  glutinous  and  reduced  ;  then 
strain  ;  put  |  pound  white  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice  ;  fla- 
vor with  lemon  essence  and  boil  until  it  is  a  fine,  clear  jelly. 
Then  strain  into  molds. 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY. 

Put  the  berries  in  a  stone  crock,  and  the  crock  in  a  kettle 
of  warm  water  on  the  stove.  Let  boil  till  the  berries  are 
well  broken.  Then  strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  coarse  towel, 
or  fruit-strainer.  Weigh  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pint  of 
juice.  Put  the  juice  on  to  boil  and  then  put  the  sugar  in 
tins  and  pans  and  set  in  the  oven  to  heat.  Keep  it  from 
burning,  but  let  it  get  very  hot.  After  20  minutes  boiling, 


328 ^ 

Crab-Apple.  JELLY.  Currant. 

throw  the  sugar  in,  stir  well  until  it  is  entirely  dissolved. 
It  needs  only  to  come  to  a  boil,  and  your  jelly  is  done.  Fill 
your  glasses. 

CRAB-APPLE  JELLY. 

Wash  and  quarter  the  apples  and  cover  with  water. 
Stew  until  well  broken.  Pour  into  a  jelly-bag,  drain  without 
squeezing.  Allow  \  pound  sugar  to  I  pint  juice.  Boil  the 
juice  alone  for  10  or  15  minutes.  Heat  the  sugar  meanwhile, 
and  add  slowly,  stirring  constantly.  Sometimes  it  will 
"jelly"  by  the  time  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved.  It  will 
require  but  very  little  boiling,  if  any.  Stick  cinnamon 
boiled  with  the  juice  improves  the  flavor.  Remove  it  before 
adding  sugar.  The  pulp  of  the  apples  is  good  for  marma- 
lade, as  in  wild  plums. 

DRIED  APPLE  JELLY. 

Two  quarts  dried  apples  put  in  a  pan  with  water  to  cover. 
Boil  2  or  3  hours.  Strain  the  juice,  and  to  every  pint  add  | 
pound  sugar  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons.  Cook  till  it  jellies. 

DRIED  APPLE  JELLY  WITH  GELATINE. 
Take  6  pounds  dried  apples,  and  let  soak  in  6  gallons  cold 
water  12  hours  ;  then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag  ;  add  to 
each  pint  of  the  juice  I  pound  of  the  gluco  or  grape  sugar, 
and  i  ounce  of  sheet  gelatine  ;  boil  twenty-five  minutes, 
and  flavor  to  taste. 

CHERRY   JELLY. 

Remove  the  pits  of  Morello  cherries.  To  4  pounds  cher- 
ries add  i  pound  red  currants,  and  proceed  as  with  currant 
jelly. 

CURRANT   JELLY. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  BaH,  Normal,   Illinois. 

Take  good  ripe  currants,  put  them  into  a  crock  or  porce- 
lain kettle  to  heat.  When  well  heated  through,  squeeze 
out  the  juice,  and  weigh  pound  for  pound  of  granulated 
sugar.  Put  the  juice  into  the  crock.  Let  heat  to  boiling, 
and  the  instant  it  boils  add  the  sugar.  Stir  it  well  till  it  is 


329 

Currant.  JELLY.  Green  Grape. 

dissolved,  and  the  very  instant  it  boils  take  it  from  the 
stove.  Dip  into  glasses,  and  have  your  papers  previously 
cut  larger  than  the  tops  of  the  glasses.  The  wrapping- 
papers  used  by  grocers  for  wrapping  up  tea  are  the  best. 
Dip  a  paper  in  the  unbeaten  white  of  an  egg  that  is  in  a 
saucer.  Saturate  the  paper  well  and  cover  the  glass,  press- 
ing down  the  edge.  Dip  another  paper  the  same  way  and 
add  to  this  paper.  Take  a  third  paper  and  cover  the  top. 
Be  sure  the  jelly  is  perfectly  air-tight.  Tie  the  papers 
tightly  around  the  glass.  Keep  your  jelly  in  a  cool,  dry 
place — not  in  a  cellar.  Be  sure  and  put  in  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  pound  of  juice.  It  will  not  answer  to  measure  it,  but 
must  be  weighed.  When  making  jelly  cake,  warm  the  jelly 
if  it  is  too  hard  to  spread. 

TO   WEIGH   FRUIT  JUICE. 

Put  a  basin  into  one  scale  and  its  weight  into  the  other. 
Add  to  the  latter  the  weight  which  is  required  of  the  juice, 
and  pour  sufficient  juice  into  the  basin  to  balance  the  scales. 
Currant  Jelly' 

After  straining  and  squeezing  the  currants,  usual  way, 
measure  the  juice,  and  to  every  pint  allow  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Put  the  sugar  in  a  crock  large  enough  to  hold  all  of  the 
jelly.  Then  place  juice  on  stove,  and  let  boil  hard  20  min- 
utes. Then  throw  it  over  the  sugar  in  the  crock,  and  stir 
until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Your  jelly  is  made.  You  can  leave 
in  same  dish,  or  put  in  tumblers.  To  make  white-currant 
jelly  and  not  change  color,  use  pure  white  cloth  to  strain, 
and  have  hands  free  from  any  soil  ;  place  juice  in  a  crock 
and  stir  2\  hours,  constantly  ;  then  put  in  granulated  sugar, 
and  stir  \  hour  ;  don't  mash  your  currants,  but  stem  them. 
Seal  in  glass  tumblers,  and  in  a  couple  of  months  your  jelly 
will  be  hard,  and  clear  as  water. 

GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Grapes  half-ripe  are  nicer  for  jelly  than  when  fully  ripe. 
Stem  them  ;  put  them  over  the  fire  with  a  very  little  water, 

*42 


330 

Ripe  Grape.  JELLY.  Peach. 

just  enough  to  keep  them  from  burning.  Let  cook,  and 
mash  with  a  silver  spoon  until  the  juice  is  pretty  well 
extracted.  Then  strain,  and  to  every  pint  allow  about  | 
pound  sugar.  Boil  20  minutes.  In  the  meantime  have  the 
sugar  heating.  Then  pour  over  the  hot  sugar.  Stir  well, 
and  fill  your  glasses. 

RIPE  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  Ball,  Normal,  111. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stems  ;  wash  ;  to  2  quarts 
grapes  add  about  ^  cup  water.  Cover  closely  in  a  pre- 
serving-kettle, and  boil  for  5  minutes  ;  then  pour  into  a 
jelly-bag,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  To  each  pint  of  juice 
add  i  pound  crushed  or  granulated  sugar.  Boil  15  minutes. 
Skim  well.  Fill  your  glasses  while  the  jelly  is  hot,  and  tie 
them  over  with  paper  which  should  be  previously  saturated 
with  unbeaten  white  of  egg. 

Ripe    Grape   Jelly. 

Mrs.  E.  K.  Owens,  Minerva,  Ky. 

Take  grapes  fully  ripe.  Remove  the  skins  first.  Then 
heat  till  scalding  hot.  Then  strain,  and  to  2  measures  of 
juice  put  3  of  sugar.  Boil,  and  it  will  jelly  in  about  5  min- 
utes. Let  stand  in  glasses  3  days  before  tying  up. 

LEMON  JELLY  WITH  GELATINE. 
Half  box  gelatine  soaked  in   I  cup  cold  water    one  hour. 
Add  i  pint  boiling  water,  \\  cups  sugar,  3  lemons,  grated 
rind  and  juice.     Heat  till  boiling,  then  strain  into  a  mold, 
and  set  away  to  cool. 

PEACH  JELLY. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  Ball,  Normal,  111. 

Take  peaches  and  good,  sour,  juicy  apples,  half  and  half. 
Cut  up  without  peeling.  Then  cover  the  fruit  with  water, 
and  boil  until  the  pulp  is  well  cooked.  Let  run  through  a 
jelly-bag,  without  squeezing.  Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle  or 
crock,  and  boil  until  it  is  not  quite  as  thick  as  molasses. 
Then  weigh  an  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  in 


33i 

Quince.  JELLY.  Calf's-Foot. 

and  boil,  and  try  it  in  a  saucer  until  it  jellies.  This  is  very 
difficult  to  make,  but  when  the  knack  is  once  acquired,  it  is 
always  a  success. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Mrs.  Ben  K.  Curtis,  Jersey  City,    N.  J 

Take  the  peeling  and  pulp  of  the  quinces,  cover  with 
water  ;  put  a  plate  over  ;  boil  till  tender  ;  put  into  a  jelly- 
cloth  and  let  drain,  but  do  not  squeeze.  To  3  pints  of 
juice  take  2  pints  of  sugar.  Boil  together  very  fast,  about 
5  minutes,  or  until  it  will  jelly  on  the  spoon  when  dropping 
off.  Put  it  into  glasses  and  let  stand  about  3  days  ;  then  tie 
a  paper  over. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Use  ^  in  bulk  of  red  currants  with  f  raspberries.  Make 
as  blackberry  jelly. 

WILD  PLUM  JELLY. 

Cover  the  fruit  with  water  and  boil  until  the  pulp  is  well 
broken.  Then  strain  through  a  cloth  or  jelly-bag  without 
squeezing.  Proceed  with  the  juice  as  with  other  jellies. 
It  is  not  necessary  to  use  pound  for  pound  of  sugar.  Less 
will  answer  every  purpose. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

One  cup  tapioca  in  I  quart  cold  water  over  night. 
Cook  it  in  a  farina-kettle,  in  the  water  in  which  it  soaked, 
until  clear.  Pour  into  cups  wet  with  cold  water.  Set  on 
ice  or  in  a  cold  place.  Serve  the  same  as  blanc-mange. 

CALF'S-FOOT  JELLY. 

Prepare  this  a  day  or  two  before  it  is  required  for  use. 
Scald  2  feet  of  a  calf,  Avash  them  very  thoroughly  in  warm 
water.  Put  them  into  6  quarts  cold  water.  Let  come  grad- 
ually to  a  boil,  and  skim  very  carefully.  Let  it  boil  gently 
about  6  hours.  The  liquor  should  be  reduced  more  than 
half.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin.  Measure  it,  and 
allow  a  little  for  the  sediment.  After  it  is  cold,  remove 
every  particle  of  fat  from  the  top,  wipe  the  jelly  oft  with  a 
clean  cloth,  so  as  to  get  every  bit.  Dip  the  jelly  into  a 


332 

Jelly  of  Two  Colors.  PRESERVES.  Remarks. 

saucepan,  leaving  the  sediment  in  the  basin.  If  there  is  a 
quart,  add  6  tablespoons  powdered  loaf  sugar  and  the  shells 
and  well-beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Stir  all  together  cold. 
Set  the  vessel  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  stir  the  jelly  at  all 
after  it  begins  to  warm.  Boil  it  10  minutes  ;  then  throw  in 
a  teacup  of  cold  water.  Boil  5  minutes  longer  ;  then  remove 
from  the  direct  heat ;  keep  it  ^covered  closely,  and  let 
remain  J  hour  near  the  fire.  Now,  strain  through  a  jelly- 
bag  that  has  been  wrung  out  of  hot  water.  Fasten  the  bag 
to  something  near  the  fire  to  keep  the  jelly  from  setting 
before  it  all  runs  out.  If  the  jelly  is  not  clear,  run  it  through 
the  bag  a  second  time.  If  there  is  any  doubt  about  the  jelly 
being  firm  when  it  cools,  J  ounce  of  isinglass  or  gelatine 
might  be  added  before  straining.  These  should  be  well 
dissolved  first.  Two  feet  of  a  calf  should  make  a  quart. 

JELLY  OF  TWO  COLORS. 

Make  a  quart  of  calf 's-foot  jelly.  Color  half  with  a  few 
drops  of  prepared  cochineal.  Have  a  mold  wet  in  every 
part.  Pour  in  a  small  quantity  of  the  red  jelly.  Let  this 
set.  When  it  is  firm,  pour  in  the  same  quantity  of  the 
uncolored  jelly — letting  this  set  until  firm — and  so  on  alter- 
nately, until  the  mold  is  full.  Blanc-mange  and  jelly  are 
very  nice  molded  as  above  directed.  If  blanc-mange  or 
jellies  are  left  over,  they  may  be  put  into  separate  vessels 
and  heated  over  boiling  water  and  molded  as  above. 


PRESERVES. 

PRESERVES.  JAMS.         -MARMALADE.          FRUIT-BUTTERS. 

Since  canning  came  into  vogue,  the  old  "  pound-for- 
pound  "  sweetmeats  have  found  less  favor  in  the  majority 
of  families.  There  are  those,  however,  who  cling  to  the 
old-fashioned  preserves  and  jams,  and  to  such  we  can 
recommend  the  following  recipes.  It  has  been  found  that 


333 

Remarks.  PRESERVES.  To  Clarify  Sugar. 

many  excellent  fruit  preserves  can  be  made  with  less  than 
"  pound-for-pound  "  of  sugar,  provided  they  are  sealed  up. 
It  is  economy  to  use  small  jars  for  sweetmeats,  as  fre- 
quent dippings  into  a  large  quantity  injure  them. 

When  preparing  apples,  peaches,  pears,  and  quinces,  for 
preserves,  cover  them  with  cold  water  as  soon  as  peeled, 
to  prevent  them  from  turning  dark. 

To  help  harden  berries,  and  some  of  the  softer  fruits, 
such  as  peaches  and  plums,  sprinkle  part  of  the  sugar  over 
them  for  a  few  hours  previous  to  preserving. 

Boil  preserves  gently.  A  porcelain  kettle,  granite  ware, 
or  block  tin  maybe  used.  Use  a  skimmer,  or  small-handled 
strainer,  for  dipping  fruit  out  of  the  syrup  into  the  cans  or 
jars.  It  is  better  to  seal  up  preserves,  but  not  a  necessity. 

Keep  preserves  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  they  become 
candied,  set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  Let  come 
gently  to  a  boil.  An  hour's  boiling  will  generally  reduce 
them  to  a  more  liquid  state. 

If  mold  appears  in  specks,  remove  carefully,  and  scald  the 
preserves,  either  by  the  above  method,  or  by  putting  them 
in  a  crock  in  the  oven  until  well  heated  through. 

To  prevent  jams,  preserves,  etc.,  from  graining,  a  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar  must  be  added  to  every  gallon. 

I  lived  once  upon  a  time  in  i  country  where  the  scarcity 
of  fruit  kept  us  all  on  the  alert  for  the  best  modes  of  utiliz- 
ing the  little  we  did  have.  We  made  delicious  wild  plum 
jelly,  marmalade,  and  preserves,  as  directed  in  their  appro- 
priate places, 

TO   CLARIFY  SUGAR. 

To  each  pound  of  sugar  allow  i  cup  of  water.  To  TO 
pounds  of  sugar  allow  I  egg.  Beat  it  up  ;  put  in  when  the 
syrup  is  cold.  When  it  boils,  pour  in  a  very  little  water, 
just  enough  to  check  the  boiling.  When  it  boils  up  again, 
set  it  aside,  and  in  15  minutes  skim  the  top.  Then  pour 
off  the  clear  syrup,  leaving  the  sediment  at  the  bottom. 


334 

Apple.  PRESERVES.      •  Grab-Apple. 

APPLE    PRESERVES. 

Select  tart,  nicely-flavored  apples.  Peel,  divide  in  halves, 
and  core  them.  Allow  |  pound  white  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  apples.  Clarify  the  sugar  ;  add  the  apples  to  the  syrup. 
Boil  till  clear.  Skim  out.  Boil  the  syrup  down  till  about 
the  consistence  of  golden  syrup.  Pour  it  over  the  apples. 
If  ginger-root  is  liked  as  a  flavor,  boil  an  ounce  of  it  (after 
bruising)  in  a  bag  in  clear  water,  and  add  the  water  to  the 
sugar-water.  If  lemon  is  liked,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  add 
just  before  sealing  up.  Seal  up  hot. 

CHERRY  PRESERVES. 

Mrs.  L.    ^.  Owens,  Cameron,  Missouri. 

For  Mayduke  and  Early  Richmonds,  allow  pound 
for  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  weighing  after  the  cherries 
are  pitted.  Drain  the  cherries  20  minutes.  To  the  juice 
add  the  sugar  ;  boil,  and  skim.  Then  add  the  cherries,  and 
boil  briskly  10  minutes. 

CITRON    PRESERVES. 

Pare,  slice,  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Take  some  ginger- 
root,  an  ounce  to  8  or  10  pounds  of  fruit ;  boil  in  sufficient 
water  to  extract  the  flavor.  Throw  the  root  away.  Put  the 
sugar  into  this  water  and  make  a  rich  syrup.  For  citron 
preserves,  allow  i|  pounds  sugar  for  each  pound  of  citron. 
Skim  very  thoroughly.  Put  in  the  citron,  and  boil  until 
transparent.  Skim  out.  If  the  juice  is  not  thick  enough, 
cook  still  longer.  Pour  over,  and  then  slice  in  some  lemons, 
One  lemon  to  every  2  pounds  citron  is  about  right. 

CRAB-APPLE   PRESERVES. 

Core  the  crab-apples  with  a  sharp  pen-knife,  leaving  the 
stems  on.  Allow  pound  for  pound  of  sugar.  Put  in  just 
water  enough  to  help  dissolve  the  sugar.  Let  it  boil  up  and 
skim.  Put  in  the  apples  and  boil  till  they  look  clear  and 
tender.  Skim  out.  Boil  the  syrup  down  and  pour  over  the 
fruit. 


335 

Cranberry.  PRESERVES.  Peach. 

Crab-Apple  Preserves. 

Weigh  the  fruit  after  it  is  cored,  and  allow  an  equal  weight 
of  sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  just  water  enough  to  melt. 
Add  the  apples.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Take  off,  set  in  a  cool 
place  until  the  following  morning.  Bring  to  a  boil  again, 
and  repeat  another  morning.  Then  omit  3  mornings.  Then 
bring  to  a  boil  for  3  more  successive  mornings,  and  on  the 
last  one  seal  them  up  in  glass  jars. 

CRANBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Author's   Recipe. 

Weigh  the  berries  ;  take  an  equal  amount  of  sugar.  Put 
over  to  cook  together,  with  just  water  enough  to  dissolve 
the  sugar.  Boil  till  the  fruit  is  well  cooked.  This  will  be 
found  a  very  delicious  preserve. 

DAMSON  PLUM  PRESERVES. 

Weigh  the  fruit  and  sugar  pound  for  pound,  and  put  in 
layers  in  a  stone  crock.  Set  in  the  oven  moderately  heated, 
and  cook  for  three  hours.  The  result  is  a  very  rich  flavor 
and  the  fruit  but  little  broken. 

GRAPE  PRESERVES. 

Press  the  pulp  from  the  fruit.  Put  the  pulp  over  to  boil 
in  a  little  water.  Then  press  through  a  colander  to  re- 
move the  seeds.  Then  put  juice,  pulp  and  skins  together  ; 
add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint,  and  boil  down  thick. 

PEACH  PRESERVES. 

Mrs.  Elliott  Durand,  Chicago. 

Peel  the  peaches  and  remove  the  pits  carefully,  keeping 
the  fruit  unbroken  as  much  as  possible.  Take  an  equal 
weight  of  sugar.  Make  a  syrup,  using  J  cup  of  water  to 
each  pound  of  sugar.  Blanch  about  3  peach-pits  for  each 
pound  of  preserves,  and  put  into  the  syrup  and  let  remain. 
Boil  15  minutes,  skimming  until  perfectly  clean.  Put  in  the 
peaches  and  cook  until  clear.  It  will  take  15  or  20  minutes. 
Remove,  and  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  let  get  perfectly  cold, 


336 

Pear.  PRESERVES.  Pumpkin. 

meanwhile  boiling  the  syrup  down  until  it  is  as  thick  as 
molasses.  Put  the  peaches  in  jars  and  pour  the  syrup  over 
hot.  Seal  up. 

PEAR  PRESERVES. 

Pare,  cut  in  two,  remove  the  cores,  and  to  each  pound  al- 
low |  pound  sugar.  Clarify  the  sugar,  or,  if  preferred,  make 
a  syrup  without  clarifying.  After  skimming,  add  the  pears 
and  boil  until  they  are  clear.  Skim  out  ;  add  more  fruit,  and 
continue  until  all  are  cooked.  Then  if  the  syrup  is  not  thick 
enough,  boil  it  down  and  pour  hot  over  the  pears  in  cans  or 
jars,  and  seal  up. 

PLUM  OR  EGG-TOMATO   PRESERVES. 

Weigh  the  fruit  and  sugar,  allowing  |  pound  sugar  to 
each  pound  of  tomatoes.  Put  sugar  and  tomatoes  in  layers 
in  a  stone  crock.  Set  in  a  moderately-heated  oven,  and 
cook  for  3  hours.  When  cold,  add  2  sliced  lemons  to  each 
gallon. 

STRAWBERRY    PRESERVES. 

Put  the  berries  and  sugar,  pound  for  pound,  into  a  pre- 
serving kettle,  and  heat  slowly  till  the  sugar  is  melted. 
Then  boil  rapidly  for  20  minutes,  and  seal  up  hot. 

TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

Mrs.  John  Lee,  Orangeburg,  Ky. 

Get  the  pear-tomato,  if  possible  ;  if  not,  use  the  large  ones 
cut  in  quarters.  Ten  pounds  tomatoes,  10  pounds  sugar,  £ 
pound  seedless  raisins,  3  lemons,  J  ounce  race-ginger,  sliced. 
Put  sugar  in  a  quart  of  water,  and  boil  and  skim  until  clear, 
and  of  the  consistency  of  syrup.  Put  in  the  tomatoes,  and 
cook  until  thoroughly  done.  Add  the  raisins  and  ginger  15 
or  20  minutes  before  taking  off,  and  add  the  sliced  lemons 
at  the  last.  Put  away  in  crocks,  and  tie  up  securely. 

PRESERVED  PUMPKIN. 

Cut  and  peel  in  square  pieces  of  about  2  or  3  inches. 
Allow  pound  for  pound  of  sugar ;  steam  the  pumpkin  till 
tender.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  with  water  to  dissolve 


337 

Quince.  PRESERVES.  Watermelon  Rinds. 

it.  Add  the  pumpkin  when  boiling  hot.  When  clear, 
remove.  Add  lemon  juice  for  flavor.  Boil  syrup  down  till 
thick,  and  pour  over. 

QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

Take  an  equal  quantity  of  smooth,  sweet  apples.  Pound 
sweets  are  best — and  put  with  the  quinces.  Even  double  the 
quantity  may  be  used.  Pare,  quarter,  and  core  them.  Steam 
in  a  steamer  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them  readily.  Make 
a  syrup  of  an  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Put  in  the  steamed 
fruit  and  boil  until  of  a  rich  red  color.  Skim  frequently. 
Lay  them  out  on  flat  dishes.  Boil  the  syrup  down  until  it 
begins  to  jelly  at  the  side  of  the  kettle.  The  syrup  is  nicer 
if  strained  through  a  sieve.  Pour  it  over  the  quinces.  Use 
the  parings  and  cores  for  jelly. 

WILD  PLUM  PRESERVES. 

Author's   Recipe. 

In  order  to  make  the  skins  tender  and  prevent  that 
strong,  rank  taste,  scald  in  saleratus-water,  allowing  a  ta- 
blespoon to  4  or  5  gallons  of  plums.  As  soon  as  the  skins 
commence  to  break,  pour  off  the  water,  and  drain  the  fruit. 
Then  take  out  the  pits,  and  weigh  the  plums,  allowing  pound 
for  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  over,  with  a  little  water. 
Let  boil  up  and  skim.  Put  in  the  plums,  cook  till  tender, 
skim  out,  boil  the  syrup  down  till  it  is  of  the  consistence  of 
molasses,  and  pour  over.  They  require  no  sealing. 

PRESERVED    WATERMELON   RINDS. 
Peel  and  cut  the  rinds  into  the  sizes  and   shapes   desired. 
Put  in  a  steamer  and  steam  till  a  straw  will  pierce  them 
easily.     Prepare   a   syrup   of  i^  pounds   of  sugar   to   each 
pound  of  rinds,  with  a  very  little  water.     Boil  up  and  skim. 
Cook  the  rinds  in  the   syrup  until  clear.     Use   I   lemon  to 
every    2  pounds  of  rinds.     Slice  in  when  the  preserves  are 
cold,  to  prevent  a  bitter  taste, 
*43 


338 

Tomato  Figs.  JAM.  Currant 

TOMATO  FIGS. 

Three  pounds  sugar  to  8  pounds  tomatoes.  Take  round, 
ripe  ones ;  peel  and  boil  whole  in  the  sugar  until  it  pene- 
trates them,  but  do  not  boil  to  pieces.  Then  lay  on  flat 
dishes  to  dry.  Boil  syrup  until  quite  thick  and  pour  over 
them  from  time  to  time.  When  dry  pack  in  boxes  in  layers, 
with  sugar  sprinkled  over  each  layer. 

PEACH  PAPER. 

Take  very  ripe  peaches.  Peel,  stone  and  mash  fine. 
Spread  on  a  smooth  surface,  a  platter,  marble  slab,  or  board, 
and  keep  in  the  sun.  When  dry,  sprinkle  with  white  sugar 
and  roll  up.  Good  in  winter. 

PEACH  ROLLS. 

Use  Freestone  peaches,  mash  them  and  put  through  a 
coarse  sieve.  To  2  quarts  of  pulp  add  a  pint  of  brown 
sugar.  Mix  and  cook  for  a  couple  of  minutes.  Spread  on 
plates  and  put  in  the  sun  every  day  until  it  cleaves  from  the 
plates  readily  Dust  white  sugar  over  and  roll  up.  Keep  in 
a  dry  place.  If  the  weather  is  good  they  will  dry  in  3  days. 

PRESERVED  ORANGE  PEEL. 

Weigh  oranges  whole,  and  allow  pound  for  pound  of  sugar. 
Peel  the  oranges  neatly  and  cut  the  rind  into  narrow  shreds. 
Boil  the  rind  until  tender,  changing  the  water  twice,  and 
replenishing  with  hot  from  the  kettle.  Squeeze  the  strained 
juice  of  the  oranges  over  the  sugar  ;  let  this  heat  to  a  boil; 
put  in  the  shreds  and  boil  20  minutes.  Lemon  peel  can  be 
preserved  in  the  same  way,  allowing  more  sugar. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM. 

Allow  |  pound  brown  sugar  to  a  pound  of  berries. 
Mash  the  berries,  cook  20  minutes  ;  add  the  sugar  and  let 
boil  briskly  10  minutes.  Seal  up. 

CURRANT  JAM. 
Pick  th'e   currants  from  the  stems,  weigh  them,  and  for 


339 

White  Currant.  JAM— MARMALADE.  Peach. 

each  pound  allow  |  pound  sugar.  Boil  the  currants  alone 
for  15  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar.  Let  boil  together, 
removing  all  the  scum  that  rises.  Mash,  and  stir  almost 
constantly  to  prevent  burning.  In  20  minutes  seal  up. 

WHITE  CURRANT   JAM. 

Weigh  an  equal  quantity  of  sifted  white  sugar  and  white 
currants  picked  over  very  carefully.     Boil  together  10  min- 
utes, stirring  gently,  and  skim  it  well.     Add  the  juice  of  i 
lemon  to  4  pounds  of  fruit.     Seal  hot. 
ORANGE  JAM. 

Take  sweet  oranges.  Peel  and  put  the  pulp  through  a 
sieve.  Put  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  each  pound  of  pulp 
and  juice.  Boil  20  minutes  together,  and  seal  up. 

RASPBERRY  JAM. 

Use  white  sugar  for  red  raspberries  ;  brown  sugar  for 
black.  Allow  |  pound  for  each  pound  of  berries.  Mash, 
and  cook  the  berries  alone  for  20  minutes.  Add  the  sugar, 
boil  briskly  for  10  minutes,  skimming  carefully.  Seal  up. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM. 

Allow  |  pound  white  sugar  for  each  pound  of  berries. 
Proceed  as  for  raspberry  jam. 

TOMATO  JAM. 

Allow  i  pound  brown  sugar  to  each  pound  of  peeled  and 
sliced  tomatoes.  To  every  6  pounds  of  tomatoes  allow  I 
lemon  and  i  ounce  white  ginger-root.  Place  all  together 
in  a  preserving  kettle.  Remove  the  seeds  from  the  lemon 
and  cut  it  in  slices.  Cook  gently,  watching  constantly. 
Boil  one  hour  and  seal  up. 

APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Twelve  pounds  apples,  3  pounds  brown  sugar,  3  lemons. 
Boil  slowly.  Mash.  w«?U. 

PEACH  MARMALADE. 

To  a  pound  of  fruit  put  |  of  a  pound  of  sugar.     Boil  the 
in   water   until  the  water  is  well  flavored.     Peel   and 


340 

Quince.  MARMALADE.  Orange. 

quarter  the  peaches  and  add  to  the  water  (only  enough  to 
cover)  after  the  pits  are  removed.  In  half  an  hour  add  the 
sugar.  Stir  constantly.  Boil  an  hour  after  the  sugar  is 
added. 

QUINCE   MARMALADE. 

Pare  and  core  the  quinces,  and  cut  up  small.  Boil  the 
parings  and  cores  in  water  that  covers  them.  When  soft, 
strain  through  a  cloth.  Add  the  quinces  and  sugar  (£  a 
pound  to  each  pound  of  fruit).  Boil  all  together  over  a  clear 
fire  until  smooth  and  thick.  Stir  and  watch  almost  con- 
stantly. When  cold,  put  in  glass  jars. 

WILD  PLUM   MARMALADE. 

Author's    Recipe. 

Take  the  plums  that  remain  in  the  jelly-bag  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  To  this,  take  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pint,  and  cook  thoroughly.  Watch,  and  stir  almost  con- 
stantly. Try  it  in  a  dish,  and  when  it  will  harden  like  jelly, 

it  is  done. 

CHERRY   MARMALADE. 

Pit  the  cherries  and  put  them  through  a  coarse  sieve.  To 
each  pound  of  pulp  add  |  pound  of  sugar,  and  to  every  3 
pounds  add  a  cup  of  currant  juice.  Boil  all  together  until 
it  will  set  like  jelly.  Put  up  in  glasses  or  jars. 

ORANGE   MARMALADE. 

Take  bitter  oranges  and  allow  an  equal  weight  of  sugar. 
Pare  off  the  yellow  peel  and  cut  it  into  thin  shreds,  and 
these  into  inch  pieces.  Boil  the  shreds  an  hour  to  take 
away  the  bitter  taste.  Then  drain,  and  throw  away  the 
water.  Cut  the  oranges  up,  saving  every  bit  of  juice  and 
pulp,  but  not  the  seeds  or  white  skins.  Put  pulp,  juice, 
shreds,  and  sugar  into  a  preserving-kettle,  and  stir  until  it 
boils.  Let  boil  J  hour,  skim,  pour  into  jars.  When  cold, 
cover  with  paper,  and  put  away. 

[Marmalade  is  very  nice  to  serve  with  dinners  if  put  up  in 
prettily-shaped  bowls.  It  Twill  turn  out  whole,  like  jelly.] 


Apple.  FRUIT  BUTTERS.  Plum. 

APPLE   BUTTER. 

Mrs.  Azuba  Mcllvain,  Maysville,  Ky. 

For  10  gallons  of  apple  butter  take  6  bushels  apples  ; 
peel,  quarter,  and  core.  Stew  in  water  and  put  through  a 
sieve  when  soft  enough.  Take  12  gallons  of  cider  and  boil 
it  down  to  3  gallons.  Do  this,  and  stew  the  apples  and  sift 
them  the  same  day.  The  next  day  put  the  boiled  cider  and 
the  sifted  apples  together,  and  cook  all  day,  stirring  all  the 
time.  An  hour  before  taking  off,  add  8  pints  coffee  sugar 
and  3  ounces  ground  cinnamon. 

APPLE  BUTTER -SMALLER  QUANTITY. 
Take  9  gallons  of  cider,  boil  down  to  3  gallons  ;  then  add 
to  the  boiling  cider  about  3  gallons  of  apples  that  have 
been  pared  and  quartered ;  boil  rapidly  for  about  2  hours 
without  ceasing,  to  prevent  the  apples  from  sinking.  By  this 
time  they  are  well  reduced,  and  will  begin  to  sink  ;  thus  far, 
no  stirring  has  been  done,  but  must  be  commenced  as  soon 
as  the  apples  begin  to  sink,  or  they  will  scorch.  Spice  to 
suit  the  taste.  Stir  without  ceasing  until  it  is  reduced  to  a 
thick  smooth  pulp,  which  will  take  about  half  an  hour. 
Apple  butter  made  in  this  way  has  been  kept  perfectly  good 
over  2  years,  without  sealing. 

APPLE  BUTTER  FROM  DRIED  APPLES. 

Four  pounds  dried  apples,  2  pounds  dried  pumpkin.  Let 
soak  12  hours  in  water  to  cover.  Add  I  gallon  glucose  (or 
grape  sugar)  ;  I  quart  boiled  cider  ;  I  quart  golden  syrup. 
6  pounds  New  Orleans  sugar,  J  pound  gelatine.  A  little 
mixed  spice  to  suit  the  taste.  Boil  gently  I  hour,  stirring 
all  the  time. 

PLUM    BUTTER. 

One  peck  plums,  \  bushel  sweet  apples.  Cook  in  sepa- 
rate kettles  until  quite  soft,  with  just  enough  water  to  pre- 
vent sticking  to  the  bottom.  When  soft,  put  through  a 
colander  into  the  same  kettle,  and  to  each  pound  add  | 
pound  white  sugar.  Let  cook  \  hour.  Seal  up. 


342 

Currants.  DRIED  FRUITS.  Persimmons. 

TOMATO  BUTTER. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Hill,  Maysville,  Ky. 

One  bushel  ripe  tomatoes,  J  bushel  apples,  5  pounds 
brown  sugar,  I  ounce  each  allspice,  cinnamon,  and  cloves. 
Let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the  apples  peeled  and  cored. 
Let  cook  together,  watching  very  carefully,  more  than 
half  a  day,  then  add  the  sugar.  The  juice  must  cook  out 
of  them,  and  it  takes  an  entire  day  to  cook  properly.  An 
hour  before  taking  off,  add  the  spices. 

TO  DRY  CURRANTS. 

Put  ^  pound  sugar  to  I  pound  currants  in  layers  in  a  crock, 
over  night.  Then  heat,  skim,  boil  15  minntes,  spread  on 
plates  to  dry,  either  in  the  sun  or  a  moderate  oven.  Put 
away  in  covered  vessels,  or  in  paper  sacks. 

TO  DRY   CHERRIES. 

Pit  them,  and  to  I  pound  add  ^  pound  sugar,  and  boil  20 
minutes.  Spread  on  dishes  to  dry.  They  may  be  dried 
without  sugar,  if  preferred.  Keep  in  a  close  sack  or  jar. 

TO  DRY  PEACHES. 

Peel,  divide,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  dry  in  the  sun  or 
oven.  Put  away  covered. 

TO  DRY  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Spread  firm,  ripe  ones  on  dishes,  and  dry  in  a  gentle  heat 
of  oven  or  sun. 

PERSIMMONS— TO   KEEP. 

Put  in  a  crock  in  alternate  layers  with  nice,  brown  sugar, 
with  sugar  at  bottom  and  top.  Tie  paper  over. 


SOUR  PICKLES.       S  WEE  T  PICKLES.        V IN  EG  A  R. 


SOU®.    PICKLES. 


^N  making  pickles,  do  not  use  metal  vessels.  If 
vinegar  has  to  be  boiled,  use  a  porcelain 
kettle  or  a  stone  crock.  For  a  few  years  past 
I  have  pickled  and  spiced  a  good  share  of  my 
.  cucumbers  when  first  procured,  and  sealed 
them  up  hot  in  glass  jars  for  winter  use,  the 
same  as  fruit.  Glass  cans  are  cheap,  and  it  has  proved 
economy,  in  my  case,  for  the  reason  that  I  suffered 
severely  at  the  hands  of  the  vinegar  seller.  One  year 
I  paid  fifty  cents  per  gallon  for  "pure  cider  vinegar," 
and  one  lot  of  pickles  I  had  to  "  do  up  "  three  different 
times,  to  keep  them  from  spoiling.  But  sealed  up  hot 
they  are  always  ready,  just  the  right  flavor,  and  no  fur- 
ther source  of  anxiety.  This  need  not  apply  to  those 
who  are  sure  of  the  Simon-pure  article  of  vinegar, 
although  it  is  the  least  work  in  the  long  run.  The 
recipes  in  this  chapter  have  been  procured  from  differ- 
ent ladies  who  excelled  in  pickling. 

CUCUMBERS— TO    KEEP    FIRM. 

Mrs.  T.  E.  Sullivan,  Chicago. 

This  is  never  failing.  Cut  them  from  the  vines  with  scis- 
sors, leaving  on  a  half-inch  stem.  They  must  not  be 
washed.  Use  a  half  barrel  or  keg,  and  make  a 'brine  of  soft 
water,  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  Now  comes  the 
great  secret  of  the  success,  and  that  is  in  the  arrangement 


344 

Artichoke.  SOUR  PICKLES.  Cucumber. 


of  the  cover.  See  that  it  fits  tightly  2  inches  from  the  top. 
By  crowding  it  down  sideways  you  can  fit  it  nicely.  Cut  a 
hole  about  5"  inches  square  in  the  middle  of  the  cover. 
After  the  keg  is  nearly  filled  with  brine  and  the  cover  is  fit- 
ted in,  you  must  drop  in  your  cucumbers.  Never  mind  the 
dirt.  The  brine  will  soak  it  off,  and  it  will  all  settle  to  the 
bottom.  Put  in  as  many  as  you  choose  at  a  time,  only  be 
sure  that  the  brine  is  overflowing  always,  and  that  insures 
the  scum  that  invariably  rises,  to  be  above  the  cover.  Keep 
a  plate  and  weight  over  the  opening  in  the  cover.  Before 
putting  in  fresh  cucumbers,  dip  out  the  scum  from  the  top, 
and  add  a  cup  of  salt  for  each  peck,  so  that  the  brine  may 
be  kept  at  its  full  strength.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  and  do 
not  "let  them  freeze,  and  you  will  have  good,  firm  pickles  all 
winter.  Watch  that  the  brine  is  kept  over  the  cover  all  the 
time.  If  it  evaporates,  add  more.  When  you  notice  the 
scum  take  it  off.  [When  wanted  for  use,  we  think  the 
easiest  way  to  freshen  and  pickle  is  Mrs.  Hodge's  method, 
on  this  page.] 

PICKLED    ARTICHOKES. 

Mrs.  Z.  B.  Glynn,  Boston,   Mass. 

Boil  the  artichokes  till  you  can  pull  the  leaves  off.  Take 
out  the  choke  and  cut  away  the  stalk,  but  be  careful  that  the 
knife  does  not  touch  the  top.  Throw  them  into  salt  and 
water.  When  they  have  lain  an  hour  take  out  and  drain. 
Then  put  into  glasses  or  jars,  add  a  little  mace  and  nut- 
meg. Fill  up  with  |  vinegar  diluted  with  J  spring  water 
and  cover  your  jars  close. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Mrs.  Hodge. 

When  you  are  ready  to  lay  them  down  for  winter,  pour 
boiling  water  over  them  and  drain  well.  Then  pack  in  salt. 
When  wanted  for  pickling,  place  in  a  jar  as  many  as  you 
want  to  freshen  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  When  cool 
drain  off  and  pour  over  another  kettle  boiling  hot,  and 
pour  on  one  kettle  more.  Then  when  cool  and  drained 


345 

Cucumber  Mangoes  SOUR  PICKLES.  Cabbage. 

heat  vinegar  to   a  scalding  point,  flavor  with  red   pepper, 
cloves,   or  anything  preferred,  and  pour  over. 

[This  is  the  easiest  way  we  have  ever  found  to  pickle 
cucumbers  that  are  in  brine.  It  does  away  with  the  trouble 
of  having  them  around  a  day  or  two  freshening. — ED.] 

FRESH   CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Get  small  ones  of  uniform  size.  Place  in  a  stone  crock. 
Pour  on  boiling  water  to  cover.  Put  in  a  large  handful  of 
salt.  Let  stand  over  night.  Drain  off  in  the  morning. 
Pour  on  more  boiling  water  and  same  quantity  of  salt. 
Let  stand  till  the  next  morning.  Drain  off  the  water,  wash 
the  pickles  in  clear  water,  dry  with  a  towel.  Put  in  a  crock 
and  pour  on  boiling  cider  vinegar.  Then  put  in  small  horse- 
radish roots.  These  pickles  will  keep  in  a  common  stone 
crock  all  winter. 

GREEN  CUCUMBER    MANGOES. 

Mrs.  Albert  Willson. 

Take  2  dozen  large  cucumbers,  cut  a  block  square  out  of 
the  side  of  each  one.  Scrape  out  the  seed.  Lay  them  in 
weak  salt  and  water  for  five  hours.  Make  a  dressing  of  2 
large  heads  of  cabbage,  4  green  peppers  chopped,  2  ounces 
celery-seed,  2  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  I  ounce  black  pep- 
per, i  ounce  salt,  and  i  cup  sugar.  Put  2  small  onions-sets 
in  it  (whole),  and  2  small  string  beans  in  each  cucumber  and 
finish  filling  with  the  dressing.  Replace  the  block  and 
tie  with  a  strip  of  cotton.  Put  a  layer  of  vine  leaves, 
a  layer  of  cucumbers,  and  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  alum 
alternately  into  a  kettle  until  it  is  full.  Cover  with  vinegar  ; 
scald  |  of  an  hour.  Lift  them  out  of  this  vinegar  into  jars. 
Take  a  gallon  of  fresh  vinegar,  i^  pounds  brown  sugar,  boil 
15  minutes,  skim  and  pour  over  the  pickle. 

PICKLED  CABBAGE. 

Mrs.  Albert  Willson. 

Take  a  hard  head  of   white  cabbage,  slice  in  thin  pieces 
*44 


H6 

Cauliflower.  SOUR  PICKLES.  Chow  Chow. 

with  8  onions  and  12  cucumbers  cut  lengthwise.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  hang  up  in  a  sack  to  drain  for  24  hours. 
Spread  on  a  table  and  sprinkle  with  3  tablespoons  ground 
mustard,  2  of  ginger,  2  of  black  pepper,  I  of  mace,  2  of 
celery-seed,  and  i  of  turmeric.  Mix  well.  Put  2  pounds 
sugar  in  2  quarts  vinegar  and  let  boil.  Pour  over  hot.  The 
next  day  drain  off  and  boil  again  and  pour  over. 

PICKLED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Cook  the  cauliflower  till  tender,  then  put  it  in  jars  and 
pour  over  it  vinegar  and  ground  mustard-seed,  previously 
scalded  together. 

PICKLED  RED  CABBAGE. 

Slice  fine;  pack  in  jar  ;  pour  over  boiling  spiced  vinegar  ; 
use  tablespoon  brown  sugar  to  one  head  ;  when  cold  tie 
down  ;  fit  for  use  in  about  ten  days. 

TO  PICKLE  CHERRIES. 

Select  cherries  not  over  ripe.  Leave  on  an  inch  of  stem. 
Put  into  a  jar  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar.  Leave  three 
weeks.  Then  pour  off  f  of  the  liquor.  (This,  boiled  with  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  the  pint  is  a  very  fine  syrup,  good  for 
pudding-sauce,  or,  diluted  with  water,  is  a  pleasant  drink.) 
Put  fresh  vinegar  over  the  cherries  to  replace  that  poured  off. 
Then  drain  it  all  off  and  to  each  quart  add  I  ounce  corian- 
der seed,  i  blade  of  mace,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  4  bruised 
cochineals,  all  tied  loosely  in  a  piece  of  thin  muslin.  Boil  it, 
and  when  cold  pour  it  over  the  cherries.  In  a  month  they 
will  be  ready  for  use. 

PICKLED  CHERRIES. 

Fill  a  glass  jar  f  full  of  large  ripe  cherries  on  the  stems. 
Fill  up  with  best  cold  vinegar.  Do  not  cook. 

CHOW  CHOW. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Roe,  Kansas  City,  Me. 

One  large  cauliflower,  i  quart  green  cucumbers  sliced 
lengthwise  (or  watermelon  rind  will  do),  3  dozen  small  cucum- 


347 

French.  SOUR  PICKLES.  Nasturtions. 

bers,  2  dozen  small  onions.  Soak  cucumbers  in  brine  for  2  or 
3  days,  scald  the  rest  in  strong  salt  and  water.  Add  pepper 
and  whole  cloves,  allspice,  and  stick  cinnamon,  as  you 
choose.  Scald  the  following,  stirring  constantly,  and  when 
well  mixed  pour  over  your  pickles  :  2j  quarts  vinegar,  2\ 
cups  brown  sugar,  \  cup  flour,  6  tablespoons  ground  mus- 
tard. Bottle  in  wide-mouthed  bottles  or  glass  cans.  Seal. 

FRENCH  PICKLES. 

Two  large  heads  of  cabbage,  i  peck  large  cucumbers,  18 
green  peppers,  24  onions,  medium-sized,  i  gallon  vinegar,  \ 
pound  mustard  seed,  2  ounces  celery  seed,  i  ounce  turmeric, 
2  cups  brown  sugar.  Chop  the  cabbage,  cucumbers, 
peppers,  and  onions — not  too  fine — sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
let  stand  over  night.  Drain  in  the  morning.  Mix  them 
together  ;  pour  the  vinegar  over,  and  scald.  Then  add  the 
sugar  and  spices,  stir  well  together,  let  boil  up,  and  remove. 
Take  seeds  out  of  the  peppers  as  far  as  possible. 

MANGOES. 

Take  young,  tender,  green  muskmelons  or  nutmegs  ;  soak 
them  in  strong  brine  for  a  week.  Then  scrape  them,  cut  out 
a  section  an  inch  square,  take  out  the  seeds.  Soak  another 
day,  then  wash  in  clear  water  and  wipe  dry  with  a  cloth. 
Then  fill  the  cavity  with  finely-chopped  cabbage,  horse-rad- 
ish, onion,  green  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  radish  pods,  nastur- 
tion  seeds,  celery  seed,  young,  tender  string  beans,  cauli- 
flower buds,  peppers,  mustard,  and  whole  cloves,  with  some 
stick  cinnamon.  Before  putting  in,  wet  this  mixture  with 
vinegar.  Replace  the  cut  piece,  tie  up  well,  pack  in  crocks, 
fill  with  cold  vinegar,  and  in  about  a  month  they  will  be 
ready  for  use. 

NASTURTIONS. 

They  require  no  seasoning.  Gather  before  they  fall  apart; 
pick  clean,  leaving  on  a  \  inch  of  stem  ;  drop  them  into  good 
vinegar,  and  keep  them  covered.  When  frost  comes  so  that 
you  will  have  no  more  seeds  to  put  in,  pour  off  the  vinegar 


348 

Mushrooms.  SOUR  PICKLES.  Plum-Tomatoes. 

and  use  it  on  the  table.  You  will  find  it  much  better  than 
pepper-sauce.  Put  the  pickles  into  a  bottle  or  glass  jar  just 
large  enough  to  hold  them,  and  fill  up  with  good  vinegar. 
If  kept  covered  they  will  keep  until  eaten. 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS. 

Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  remove  the  top  skins. 
Scald  in  weak  brine  for  5  minutes.  Drain,  and  put  into 
spiced  vinegar.  Cork  tight. 

ONIONS  SPICED. 

Put  sliced  onions  into  ajar  in  layers  with  a  light  sprink- 
ling of  salt.  To  a  quart  of  cider  vinegar  add  2  cups  sugar, 
I  teaspoon  whole  allspice,  same  of  whole  cloves,  same  of 
whole  pepper-corns.  Scald  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices 
and  pour  hot  over  the  onions.  In  24  hours  pour  off,  scald 
again  and  pour  over. 

SILVER-SKIN  ONIONS. 

Pour  scalding  brine  (weak)  on  them  every  day  for  9  days — 
new  brine  every  other  day ;  then  throw  them  in  cold 
spiced  vinegar,  and  they  will  be  ready  to  eat  in  a  few  days, 
and  good,  too. 

STUFFED  PEPPER  PICKLES. 

Remove  seeds  from  green  peppers.  Lay  in  salt  water  IO 
days.  Soak  in  clear  water  24  hours.  Pack  in  a  jar  and 
scald  with  vinegar  and  water,  half  and  half,  with  a  small 
piece  of  alum,  for  3  days  in  succession.  Make  a  stuffing  of 
I  pound  cabbage,  J  pound  each  of  horse-radish,  ground 
ginger,  and  ground  mustard;  I  ounce  each  of  mace,- cloves, 
and  cinnamon.  Fill  them,  boil  strong  vinegar  and  pour 
over  hot. 

PICKLED  PLUM-TOMATOES: 

Fill  a  glass  fruit  jar  with  the  tomatoes,  and  I  teaspoon 
each  of  whole  cloves,  peppercorns,  and  allspice,  and  2  tea- 
spoons small  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon.  Fill  the  jar  up  with 
boiling  hot  vinegar,  and  seal.  Do  not  add  spices  if  pre- 
ferred plain. 


349 

Jackson.  SOUR  PICKLES.  Higby. 

JACKSON  PICKLES. 

Grandma  Owens. 

Take  firm,  smooth,  green  tomatoes,  slice  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  clear  water  over 
and  drain  immediately.  Be  very  particular  about  getting 
the  water  all  out  so  as  not  to  weaken  the  vinegar.  Then 
pack  in  jars  in  layers  with  white  mustard  seed,  plenty  of 
horse-radish  cut  up  fine,  small  bits  of  green  pepper,  allow- 
ing about  6  to  each  peck  of  tomatoes.  Cover  with  cold 
vinegar.  Tie  cloth  over.  [  I  have  never  lost  any  pickles 
made  in  this  way,  and  have  put  them  up  every  year  for  a 
long  time. — ED.] 

GREEN  TOMATOES. 

Sliced  green,  they  make  splendid  pickles,  if  a  pint  of 
molasses  is  poured  over  2  gallons  ;  press  down  with  plate, 
and  remove  white  scum  as  it  appears  ;  brown  sugar  is  pre- 
ferred by  some. 

Green   Tomatoes. 

Mrs.  Judge  Sherman. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced  thin.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  let  stand  over  night.  Slice  12  onions,  put  with  the 
tomatoes  in  layers  with  the  following  spices  :  4  ounces 
white  mustard  seed,  4  ounces  ground  mustard,  I  ounce  each 
of  cloves,  allspice,  ginger,  pepper,  and  cinnamon,  \  ounce 
turmeric,  I  tablespoon  salt,  \  pound  brown  sugar;  boil  2  hours 
in  vinegar  to  cover. 

HIGBY. 

Hattie  A.  H.,  Clinton,  Iowa. 

One  bushel  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine  and  packed  in 
jars  with  salt.  Let  stand  24  hours,  then  drain  well,  then 
add  12  green  peppers,  2  large  heads  of  cabbage,  chopped 
fine  ;  then  scald  in  vinegar,  then  drain  again  ;  add  3  large 
spoons  of  black  pepper  (ground),  4  of  cinnamon,  3  of  allspice, 
7  of  cloves,  i  cup  of  unground  mustard  ;  mix  well  with 
tomatoes  and  put  in  jars.  Take  5  pounds  brown  sugar 
and  mix  with  vinegar  enough  to  cover  ;  scald  the  sugar  and 
vinegar  and  pour  over  while  hot. 


350 

Piccalilli.  SOUR  PICKLES.  String  Beans. 

HEATH   PICCALILLI. 

Mrs.  Elliott  Durand,  Chicago. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  12  green  peppers,  i  head  of 
cabbage,  J  dozen  ripe  cucumbers,  ^  dozen  green  cucumbers, 
6  large  onions,  2  heads  of  celery,  all  chopped  fine,  and 
mixed  with  i  teacup  coarse  salt.  Let  stand  12  hours. 
Drain  perfectly  dry,  and  scald  thoroughly  in  2  quarts  of 
vinegar.  Drain  and  pack  in  jars.  When  cold,  pour  over  2 
quarts  of  vinegar  to  which  has  been  added  £  cup  of  grated 
horse-radish,  i  tablespoon  of  ground  mace,  i  tablespoon 
each  of  ground  cinnamon,  allspice,  mustard,  and  cayenne 
pepper — \  ounce  each  celery  seed  and  mustard  seed — cover 
with  plate  to  keep  under  the  vinegar,  and  cover  closely  the 
top  with  thick  cloth. 

MIXED  PICKLES. 

Three  hundred  small  cucumbers,  4  large  green  peppers, 
sliced  fine,  2  large  heads  cauliflower,  3  heads  white  cabbage 
shredded  fine,  2  quarts  small  onions,  I  quart  or  more  small 
string  beans,  cut  in  inch  pieces,  i  quart  small,  green  toma- 
toes, sliced.  Put  this  all  in  a  pretty  strong  brine  24  hours. 
Drain  3  hours,  then  sprinkle  in  \  pound  black  and  \  pound 
white  'mustard  seed,  I  tablespoon  black  ground  pepper. 
Let  the  whole  come  to  a  boil  in  just  enough  vinegar  to 
cover,  with  a  little  alum  put  in.  Drain,  and  when  cold  mix 
a  pint  of  ground  mustard  as  for  table  use  and  put  in. 
Cover  the  whole  with  good  cider  vinegar. 

PICKLED  STRING  BEANS. 

Author's   Recipe. 

Boil  in  water  a  little  salt  till  just  a  trifle  tender.  Drain 
very  carefully.  Put  into  glass  cans,  and  after  filling  them 
stand  them  upside  down  to  be  sure  and  get  out  all  the 
water.  Then  cover  with  hot  vinegar  flavored  as  you  please. 
Seal  up  hot,  and  you  will  have  one  of  the  most  palatable 
pickles  you  ever  ate  in  midwinter.  They  may  be  steamed 
instead  of  boiled.  It  is  not  strictly  necessary  to  salt  them. 


Walnuts.  PICKLES.  Apples. 

PICKLED  WALNUTS. 

Take  white  walnuts,  fresh  and  tender ;  put  them  in  salt 
and  water  for  3  days,  then  put  in  the  sun  till  they  turn 
black.  Use  the  proportion  of  J  pound  mustard  seed,  2 
ounces  pepper,  J  ounce  cloves,  £  ounce  mace,  ^  ounce  nut- 
meg, and  a  good  stalk  of  horse-radish,  and  boiled  in  4  quarts 
vinegar.  Cover  the  walnuts  closely  and  let  them  remain  3 
or  4  weeks.  Pour  off  the  liquid  for  catsup,  if  desired,  and 
bottle  it,  covering  the  walnuts  again  with  cold  vinegar. 

PICKLED  LEMONS. 

Six  lemons  put  into  brine  that  will  bear  an  egg.  Let 
remain  6  days,  stirring  every  day.  Then  boil  15  minutes  in 
2  quarts  water  (boiling  when  put  in).  Remove  and  put  into 
a  cloth  till  cold.  Boil  up  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  the 
lemons,  allowing  to  each  quart  2  teaspoons — scant — cloves, 
same  of  white  pepper,  i  teaspoon — scant — mace,  I  table- 
spoon bruised  ginger,  same  of  mustard  seed,  a  few  scrap- 
ings of  horse-radish  root,  and  a  clove  of  garlic.  Pour  over 
boiling  hot ;  tie  down  securely.  They  will  not  be  fit  for 
use  for  nearly  a  year. 


SWEET   PICKLES. 

PICKLED  CRAB-APPLES. 

Seven  pounds  fruit,  3j  pounds  sugar,  I  pint  vinegar,  f 
ounce  stick  cinnamon,  and  ^  ounce  whole  cloves,  mixed. 
Remove  the  blossom  end.  Steam  until  tender,  and  put 
into  jars.  Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  15  minutes, 
pour  over  the  fruit  and  seal  up. 

PICKLED  SWEET  APPLES. 

Seven  pounds  apples  after  peeling  and  coring  (they  should 
be  halved),  I  ounce  stick  cinnamon,  3j  pounds  sugar,  I  pint 
vjnegar,  I  teaspoon  cloves.  Steam  the  apples  until  a  straw 


352 

Cantaloupe.  SWEET  PICK  LES.  CiVon. 

will  pierce  them.     Then  put  in  the  boiling  vinegar,  sugar,  and 
spices,  and  simmer  2  minutes.    Put  into  jars  and  seal. 

CANTALOUPE  PICKLES. 

Seven  pounds  melons  after  they  are  peeled  and  cut  in 
shapes.  They  must  be  nearly  ripe.  Lay  in  weak  brine  over 
night.  Then  boil  in  alum-water  (a  teaspoon  of  alum  to  2 
quarts  water)  J  hour.  Remove,  drain,  and  have  boiling  hot 
on  the  stove  the  following  :  3  pounds  sugar,  I  quart  vine- 
gar, 2  ounces  cinnamon  bark,  I  ounce  pounded  mace  and  i-J 
ounces  whole  cloves.  Add  the  melon  and  let  scald  all  to- 
gether 15  minutes.  Put  away  in  jars. 

SWEET  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Mrs.  L.  S.  Hodge,  Chicago. 

Take  ripe  cucumbers,  cut  them  lengthwise,  take  out  seeds, 
soak  in  salt  and  water  24  hours.  Then  soak  in  vinegar  and 
water  24  hours.  Drain.  Then  make  a  syrup  of  I  quart 
vinegar,  i  pound  sugar,  i  ounce  cinnamon,  and  \  ounce 
cloves.  Boil  till  tender. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles. 

Take  ripe  cucumbers.  Peel,  and  cut  in  lengthwise  slices  ; 
steam  till  tender ;  \  gallon  vinegar,  2  pounds  sugar,  I  red 
pepper,  I  ounce  cassia  buds.  Scald  all  together  and  pour 
hot  over  the  pickles  in  a  jar.  Seal  up. 

CITRON  PICKLE. 

Pare  the  citron  and  cut  it  into  such  shapes  as  are  desired. 
Boil  in  water  with  a  teaspoon  of  alum  to  each  J  gallon, 
until  tender.  Then  drain  well.  Boil  together  for  10  min- 
utes 2  quarts  vinegar,  3  pounds  sugar,  3  ounces  cassia  buds. 
Then  add  the  citron  and  boil  5  minutes  longer.  Put  away 

in  jars. 

WATERMELON  RINDS. 

Pare  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Take  weak  alum-water 
and  pour  it  over  hot.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Then  soak 
till  well  cleansed,  and  boil  in  clear  water  till  tender.  Make 
a  syrup  of  equal  measures  vinegar  and  sugar,  some  stick 


^___ 353 

Grapes,  SWEET  PICKLES.  Pine-Apples. 


cinnamon  and  race-ginger.  Use  the  proportions  given  for 
citron.  Boil  the  rinds  in  this  till  clear.  Put  in  a  jar,  pour 
the  syrup  over,  cover,  seal,  and  put  away. 

PICKLED  GRAPES. 

Take  firm,  ripe  grapes.  Pack  closely  in  a  jar  with  grape- 
leaves  between  the  layers,  if  you  can  get  them.  To  4  quarts 
vinegar  add  2  pints  white  sugar,  I  ounce  cinnamon,  J  ounce 
cassia,  \  ounce  cloves.  Boil  vinegar  and  spices  well 
together,  let  get  cold,  and  pour  over  the  grapes. 

SWEET  TOMATO   PICKLE. 

Mrs.  R.  R.  Austin,  Vermillion,  Dakota. 

Fifteen  pounds  sliced  green  tomatoes  ;  let  stand  over 
night,  with  a  little  salt  sprinkled  over  ;  drain  ;  5  pounds 
sugar,  i  quart  best  vinegar,  I  ounce  cloves,  2  ounces  cin- 
namon. Boil  15  or  20  minutes,  skim  out  and  boil  the  syrup 
till  thicker,  if  preferred,  but  it  is  not  necessary.  [The  best  I 
ever  tasted. — ED.] 

PICKLED  PEARS. 

Mrs.   Azuba  Mcllvain. 

Ten  pounds  Seckel  pears,  2  pounds  sugar,  I  quart 
vinegar  ;  \  ounce  mace  and  I  ounce  cinnamon.  Boil  vine- 
gar and  sugar  and  pour  over  the  pears,  four  days  in  succes- 
sion, with  spice  to  taste.  If  other  pears  are  used,  they  will 
require  more  sugar. 

Pickled  Pears. 

Take  3  pounds  pears  ;  peel  and  cut  out  the  ends,  leaving 
stems  in  ;  put  into  a  preserving-kettle  with  I  quart  water, 
and  boil  until  they  are  easily  pierced  by  a  fork.  Then  lay 
out  on  a  dish.  Add  to  the  juice  i^  pounds  sugar,  I  pint 
vinegar,  \  ounce  stick  cinnamon,  \  ounce  cloves,  same  of  race- 
ginger.  Boil  all  5  minutes  and  skim.  Put  pears  in  and  boil 
until  the  syrup  thickens.  Take  out,  put  in  jars,  boil  syrup  5 
minutes  longei,  pour  over. 

PICKLED    PINE-APPLES. 

Three  pounds  sugar,  6£  pounds   prepared  pine-apples,    I 
*45 


354 

Quinces.  SWEET  PICKLES.  Plum-Tomatoes. 

pint  vinegar,  \  ounce  whole  cloves,  i  ounce  small  pieces  of 
cinnamon.  Put  the  peeled  and  sliced  fruit  in  a  jar  in  layers 
with  the  spices.  Pour  over  it  the  scalded  vinegar  and  sugar. 
Let  stand  24  hours.  Pour  off,  boil  up  for  5  minutes,  pour 
over  again,  and  let  stand  24  hours  more.  Then  boil  fruit 
and  syrup  together  gently  \  hour.  Seal  up. 

PICKLED  QUINCES. 

Seven  pounds  fruit,  3^  pounds  sugar,  i  pint  vinegar,  I 
teaspoon  whole  cloves,  \  ounce  cinnamon.  Peel,  quarter, 
and  core  the  quinces.  Boil  in  water  only  sufficient  to  cook 
them  for  15  minutes,  and  boil  very  gently.  Drain,  and  skim 
carefully  into  the  syrup  made  of  the  sugar,  vinegar,  and  spices, 
and  already  heated  to  simmering.  Let  cook  gently  5  min- 
utes and  seal  up. 

[Put  the  cores  and  peelings  into  the  water  in  which  the 
quinces  were  boiled,  and  make  jelly.  A  few  good  juicy 
apples  cut  in  small  pieces  and  added  will  eke  out  the  jelly, 
besides  making  it  firmer.] 

PICKLED    PEACHES. 

Seven  pounds  fruit,  3|  pounds  sugar,  i  pint  vinegar,  I 
teaspoon  whole  cloves,  double  the  quantity  of  stick  cinna- 
mon, broken  in  small  pieces  ;  2  blades  of  mace  may  be 
added,  if  liked.  Steam  the  fruit  until  a  straw  will  pierce  it. 
Then  remove  the  tough  skin.  Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and 
spices  together  for  5  minutes.  Put  the  steamed  fruit  in  jars 
and  pour  the  hot  syrup  over,  and  seal. 

PICKLED  PLUMS. 

Eight  pounds  fruit,  4  pounds  sugar,  i  pint  vinegar,  2  ounces 
stick  cinnamon,  i  ounce  cloves.  Heat  the  vinegar,  sugar, 
and  spices.  Steam  the  plums  tender,  then  lift  gently  into 
the  hot  syrup,  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Seal  up. 

PICKLED  PLUM-TOMATOES. 

Seven  pounds  tomatoes,  3^  pounds  sugar,  i  pint  vinegar, 
\  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  i  ounce  stick  cinnamon.  Steam 
the  tomatoes  until  tender.  Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and 


_ 355^ 

Raisins.  SWEET  PICKLES.  Rhubarb. 

spices   5  minutes.     Lift  the  tomatoes  gently  into  jars  and 
pour  the  boiling  syrup  over,  and  seal. 

PICKLED  RAISINS. 

Four  pounds  layer  raisins  left  on  the  stems,  I  pound  sugar, 
I  quart  vinegar.  Simmer  all  together  ^  hour.  Cover  in  a  jar. 

PICKLED  STRAWBERRIES. 

Ten  pounds  berries,  4  pounds  sugar,  I  pint  vinegar,  J  ounce 
whole  cloves,  I  ounce  stick  cinnamon.  Heat  sugar,  vinegar, 
spices ;  add  berries  ;  simmer  30  minutes ;  put  into  jars  and 
seal. 

PICKLED  BLACKBERRIES. 

Ten   pounds  berries,  4  pounds  sugar,  i    pint   vinegar,   | 
ounce  cloves,  J   ounce  cinnamon.     Heat  the  vinegar,  sugar, 
and  spices  in  a  porcelain  kettle.     Add  the  berries.     Let  boil 
gently  for  15  minutes.     Pour  into  jars  and  seal. 
PICKLED  HUCKLEBERRIES. 
Proceed  precisely  as  with  blackberries. 

SWEET  PICKLED  BEETS. 

Boil  beets  till  soft.  Peel  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Boil  I 
quart  vinegar  with  I  quart  sugar  and  I  teaspoon  ground 
cloves  (tied  in  muslin),  and  pour  over  hot. 

[Any  preserve  can  be  made  into  a  sweet  pickle  by  adding 
spices  and  vinegar  to  the  syrup  and  boiling  up  and  pouring 
over  the  fruit.] 

SPICED  RHUBARB. 

Peel,  spice,  and  weigh  the  rhubarb.  Heat  it  slowly  in  a 
porcelain  kettle  without  water.  When  the  juice  flows  freely, 
put  the  kettle  over  a  direct  heat,  and  boil  for  J  hour.  Dip 
out  half  of  the  juice  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and  keep  it  hot. 
To  the  rhubarb  add  ^  pound  sugar  (brown  will  answer),  i 
teaspoon  cloves,  and  2  of  cinnamon  to  each  pound  rhubarb. 
Mix  thoroughly,  add  some  of  the  juice  if  it  seems  too  thick. 
It  does  not  need  to  be  as  thick  as  jam.  Simmer  15  minutes ; 
seal  up  hot. 


356  _ 

Apple.  VINEGAR.  Corn. 


TO  STRENGTHEN  VINEGAR. 

Let  it  freeze,  and  take  the  ice  off  the  top,  as  the  water 
alone  freezes. 

APPLE   VINEGAR. 

Save  all  parings  and  cores  of  apples  when  used  for  cook- 
ing purposes  ;  put  them  in  a  jar  ;  cover  with  cold  water  ; 
add  about  a  pint  molasses  to  3  or  4  gallons  ;  tie  mosquito 
netting  over  jar;  add  more  apple  parings  as  you  have  them, 
and  all  the  cold  tea  left  in  teapot.  Makes  the  very  best 
vinegar. 

BEET   VINEGAR. 

Take  I  bushel  of  sugar-beets,  wash  and  grate  them  into  a 
cheese  or  cider-press.  Put  the  juice  into  a  cask,  cover  the 
bung  with  netting,  and  set  in  the  sun.  In  2  or  3  weeks  you 
will  have  5  or  6  gallons  of  good  vinegar. 

CAYENNE  VINEGAR. 

Mrs.  Z.  B.  Glynn,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 

Half  ounce  cayenne  pepper  put  into  i  pint  vinegar.  Let 
steep  in  a  bottle  for  a  month.  Then  strain  off  and  bottle 
for  use.  Is  excellent  seasoning  for  all  kinds  of  soups  and 
sauces,  but  must  be  used  very  sparingly. 

CELERY  VINEGAR. 

Pound  a  cup*  of  celery-seed  and  put  into  a  bottle,  and  fill 
up  with  strong  vinegar.  Shake  once  a  day  ;  in  2  weeks  strain 

for  use. 

CLOVER  BLOOM  VINEGAR. 

Put  6  pounds  brown  sugar  to  \  bushel  clover  bloom. 
Add  4  quarts  molasses  and  9  gallons  boiling  water.  Let 
cool  and  add  3  pints  hop  yeast.  Lay  a  folded  sheet  over 
the  tub  and  let  stand  14  days.  Strain  and  put  away. 

CORN  VINEGAR. 

Boil  i  pint  corn  in  4  quarts  rain  water  till  the  grains 
burst.  Put  it  all  in  a  crock,  add  i  pint  syrup,  and  water 


557 

Currant.  VINEGAR.  Rhubarb. 

to  make  a  gallon.  Tie  double  mosquito  netting-  over  and 
keep  warm  about  4  weeks.  Do  not  cork  the  jug  when  you 
put  the  vinegar  away,  but  tie  a  cloth  over.  Put  some  of  the 
"  mother"  in. 

CURRANT  VINEGAR. 

One  quart  currant  juice  strained  as  for  jelly,  3  quarts  of 
rain  water,  i  pound  of  sugar.  Keep  warm. 

HONEY   VINEGAR. 

To  i  quart  of  clear  honey  put  8  quarts  warm  water;  mix 
it  well  together  ;  when  it  has  passed  through  the  asce- 
tous  fermentation,  a  white  vinegar  will  be  formed,  in  many 
respects  better  than  the  ordinary  vinegar. 

HORSE-RADISH  VINEGAR. 

Scrape  5  tablespoons  horse-radish.  Add  i  tablespoon 
cayenne  pepper.  Mix  and  pour  on  i  quart  vinegar.  Let 
«tand  a  week,  and  use  as  a  relish  for  cold  meats. 

LEMON  VINEGAR. 

Put  the  rind  of  2  large  smooth  lemons  in  a  quart  bottle. 
Fill  with  vinegar.  It  will  be  flavored  sufficient  for  use  in 
about  10  days. 

POTATO  VINEGAR. 

Two  gallons  of  water'  that  potatoes  have  been  boiled  in< 
i  pound  brown  sugar,  a  cup  of  hop  yeast.  In  3  or  4  weeks, 
you  will  have  most  excellent  vinegar.  Cucumbers  cut  fresh 
from  the  vines  without  salt,  will  keep  in  this  vinegar. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Put  2  quarts  fresh  raspberries  in  a  crock  and  pour  over 
them  a  quart  of  vinegar.  Let  stand  24  hours,  strain,  and 
pour  it  over  2  quarts  fresh  berries.  After  another  24  hours, 
strain  again,  and  add  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  each  pint  cf 
the  vinegar.  Set  the  vessel  in  a  kettle  of  water  and  le(  it 
boil  an  hour  briskly.  Skim  it  wken  the  scum  rises.  Bottle 
it  when  cold. 

RHUBARB  VINEGAR. 

Take  12  large  stalks  of  pie-plant      Bruise  them,  and  pour 


358 

Spearmint.  VINEGAR.  Tomato. 

on  5  gallons  water.  After  standing  24  hours,  strain  and 
add  9  pounds  brown  sugar  and  a  small  cup  of  yeast.  Keep 
warm  a  month.  Strain  it  and  keep  in  the  cask  till  sour 

enough  to  use. 

SPEARMINT  VINEGAR. 

Gather  clean,  fresh  spearmint,  peppermint,  or  celery  seed, 
put  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  enough  to  nearly  fill  it  loosely. 
Fill  with  vinegar,  cork,  and  in  about  3  weeks  pour  the 
vinegar  off  into  another  bottle  and  cork  well.  Serve  with 
cold  meats.  Also  good  with  soup  and  roasts. 

SPICED  VINEGAR. 

Two  gallons  cider  vinegar,  2\  pounds  brown  sugar,  \\ 
ounces  allspice,  \\  ounces  celery  seed,  \\  ounces  cloves,  \\ 
ounces  ground  mustard,  ij  ounces  mace,  ij  ounces  pepper, 
ij  ounces  turmeric,  i^  ounces  white  ginger.  Put  the  spices 
in  little  loose  muslin  bags  in  the  jar  with  the  vinegar  and 

sugar. 

SUGAR    VINEGAR. 

To  i  quart  sugar  put  7  quarts  warm  water.  Add  yeast  in 
proportion  of  a  pint  to  8  gallons.  Put  it  into  a  close  cask 
and  keep  in  a  warm  place.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  few 

weeks. 

TARRAGON  VINEGAR. 

Gather  the  tarragon  just  previous  to  blossoming.  Bruise 
and  twist  it,  and  fill  up  bottles  with  it.  Pour  good  vinegar 
over  to  cover  it,  and  let  stand  a  couple  of  months.  It  may 
then  be  poured  off  and  corked  up  for  winter  use.  Serve 
with  meats. 

TOMATO  VINEGAR. 

To  4  quarts  rain  water  add  I  pint  sorghum  and  4  quarts 
ripe  tomatoes.  The  tomatoes  are  good  to  eat. 


ERE  we  give  a  few  suggestions  which  may 
not  come  amiss.  From  the  subjoined  list  a 
nice  variety  of  dishes  may  be  selected : 
Panned  oysters,  boiled  ham,  fried  chicken, 
pressed  chicken,  pressed  veal,  veal  loaf, 
plain  hard-boiled  eggs,  stuffed  eggs,  sar- 
dines, sausages,  baked  beans,  Saratoga  potatoes,  radishes, 
cold  slaw,  salads  of  any  kind,  pickled  peaches,  pickled 
beans  (the  white  wax  beans  are  nicest,  and  spice  them  a 
little),  rolled  sandwiches,  plain  sandwiches,  jelly,  pickles,  etc. 
Potted  meats  that  can  be  procured  at  grocery  stores  are 
quite  nice.  Bottled  pickles  are  rather  in  favor.  Take  but- 
ter in  a  jelly-glass  or  other  covered  dish.  Take  bread  in 
a  whole  loaf  rather  than  in  slices,  but  if  slices  are  preferred 
wrap  each  two,  buttered  and  laid  together,  in  tissue  paper. 
Biscuit  are  always  nice.  Ginger  cookies  are  relished  more 
than  rich  cake.  If  Saratoga  potatoes  are  used,  fry  only  a 
few  at  a  time  in  hot  lard  and  carry  them  in  fancy  papers. 
Take  jelly  and  preserves  in  glasses.  Cakes  and  pies  to  suit 
one's  taste.  Tea  may  be  put  into  a  bottle  of  cold  water, 
and  will  make  a  good  beverage.  Portable  lemonade  is 
handy,  but  lemons  should  always  be  carried  if  they  can  be 
procured,  together  with  all  seasonable  fruits.  Don't  forget 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  sugar. 

FOR  A  SOCIAL  TEA  PARTY  OF  25. — 
6  dozen  sandwiches. 
100  fried  oysters. 
2  chickens  pressed, 
i  pound  coffee. 
i  gallon  ice  cream. 
Cake  as  desired,  in  little  or  great  variety. 


For  25  Persons.  QUANTITIES  REQUIRED.  For  150  Persons. 

ICE  CREAM  AND  CAKE  FOR  2$  PERSONS. 
One  gallon  of  cream  and   3  loaves  of  cake  will  serve  25 
persons.     The  writer  has  gotten  50  large  dishes  of  cream  by 
actual  count  from  2\  gallons,  besides  giving  out  many  extra 
spoonsful  to  different  children. 

QUANTITIES  REQUIRED  FOR  CHURCH  LUNCHES. 

FOR   25    PERSONS.— 

4  loaves  bread,  or  6  dozen  biscuit. 
\  pound  butter. 

1  pound  coffee  in  5  quarts  water. 

2  ounces  tea. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

I  pint  cream  and  i  pint  milk  mixed. 

1  quart  pickles. 

5  pounds  ham  before  it  is  boiled. 

2  cans  fruit,  or 

2  quarts  cranberries. 

FOR    150   PERSONS. — 

12  dozen  biscuit. 

6  loaves  white  bread. 

6  loaves  Graham  bread. 
150  doughnuts. 
2  hams. 
4  tongues. 

1  gallon  pickles. 
4  pounds  coffee. 
\  pound  tea. 

10  pounds  sugar. 
4  pounds  butter. 

2  quarts  cream  and 
2  quarts  milk  mixed. 


School.  LUNCHES.  Traveling. 

SCHOOL  LUNCHES. 

Croquettes,  Graham  bread,  orange. 

Bread  and  butter,  fresh  tomato,  hard-boiled  egg,  wafers. 

Cheese  sandwich,  fresh  cucumbers,  cookies. 

Vegetable  salad,  bread  and  butter  sandwich,  apple  turn- 
overs. 

Minced  meat  or  fish  sandwich,  cup  custard,  ginger 
cookies. 

Egg  sandwich,  Saratogo  chips,  tarts. 

Cold  roast  meat,  bread  and  butter,  molasses  eake. 

Cold  ham,  bread  and  butter,  pickle,  baked  apple. 

Corned  beef,  Graham  bread  and  butter,  cup  cake,  pickled 
pear  or  peach. 

Biscuit  and  butter,  cottage  cheese,  cake. 

Fish  ball,  bread,  cold  baked  beans,  pickles,  apple 
sauce. 

Rice  cutlets,  bread  and  butter,  apples. 

LUNCHES   FOR  TRAVELING. 

It  is  usually  preferable  to  carry  lunch  in  a  pasteboard 
box  that  may  be  thrown  away.  If  for  more  than  one 
meal  it  is  better  to  put  each  meal  by  itself  in  a  separate 
box  or  compartment. 

Bread  for  sandwiches  should  be  cut  thin  and  wrapped 
separately  in  paramne  paper. 

Wrap  meat,  cake,  cookies  and  cheese,  each  alone,  in  oiled 
paper. 

Put  pickles  in  covered  jelly  glass  or  jars. 

Salad  may  be  carried  in  a  small  jar. 

Celery  is  an  appetizing  lunch  relish. 

Fried  chicken,  cut  in  small  joints  and  wrapped  carefully, 
is  delicious. 

Portable  lemonade  is  good. 

Carry  your  own  drinking  cup. 


362 

Yellow  Luncheon.  LUNCHEONS.  Red  Luncheon. 

A  YELLOW  LUNCHEON. 

The  embroidered  center  pieces  should  be  those  having 
yellow  for  the  prevailing  color.  In  the  center  of  the  table 
should  be  a  vase  of  yellow  flowers.  At  each  place  may  be 
placed  a  card  with  the  name  of  the  person  in  heavy  gilt  let- 
ters On  a  bread  and  butter  plate  at  each  place  put  a  ball 
of  butter,  a  couple  of  Saratogo  wafers,  and  a  half  lemon 
rind  filled  with  very  finely-chopped  cabbage  salad. 

FIRST    COURSE. 

Potato  Puree  with  Whipped  Cream. 

SECOND  COURSE. 

Fish  Turbot  in  Individual  Shells,  and  Brown  Bread 
with   Pickles. 

THIRD    COURSE. 

Creamed  Chicken  with  Mushrooms,  served  in  Ramikin 
dishes.      Coffee,    Hot   Rolls  and    Jelly  with  this    course. 

FOURTH    COURSE. 

Shrimp  Salad. 

FIFTH    COURSE. 

Trilby  Ice  Cream  and  Assorted  Cake. 

This  is  not  a  difficult  menu,  as  the  work  can  be  done 
largely  beforehand.  The  fish  and  chicken  may  be  made 
ready  for  the  final  cooking  in  the  little  dishes,  and  one 
course  will  cook  while  the  preceding  one  is  being  served. 
This  insures  every  dish  to  be  piping  hot. 

RED  LUNCHEON. 

Deviled  crackers. 

Oyster  Loaves.      Sweet  Potato  Croquettes. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes.      Hot  Rolls.     Chopped  Pickles. 

Raspberry  Frappe. 


363 

Nasturtium  Luncheon.  LUNCHEONS.  Yellow  Dinner. 

Chestnut  Salad.      Wafers. 

Cherry  Pudding. 
Coffee.      Iced  Grapes. 

NASTURTIUM    LUNCHEON. 

FIRST    COURSE. 

Muskmelons. 

SECOND    COURSE. 

Creamed  Mushrooms  in  Ramikin  Dishes. 
Nasturtium  Sandwiches.      Olives. 

THIRD    COURSE. 

Creamed  Chicken.      Macaroni  Croquettes. 

French  Fried  Potatoes.       Hot   Rolls.       Olives. 

Pickled  Peaches.      Pineapple  Sherbet. 

FOURTH    COURSE. 

Tomatoes  with  Celery  Stuffing,  served  with 
Mayonnaise  Dressing.       Crackers. 

FIFTH    COURSE. 

Ice  Cream.     White  Cake.     Yellow  Cake.      Lemon  Jelly. 

SIXTH    COURSE. 

Coffee.      Mints. 

Salted  Almonds  and  Mints  with  every  course. 
Nasturtiums  at  each  end  of  table  and  asters  in  center. 

YELLOW   DINNER. 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup. 

Celery.       Bread  Sticks. 

Roast  Turkey  with  Chestnut  Dressing. 

Potatoes  with  Rice. 

Baked  Corn.      Hot  Rolls. 

Pickled  Peaches.      Red  Currant  Jelly. 

Shrimp  Salad.      Wafers.      Olives. 


3^4 

Thanksgiving  Dinner.  DINNERS.         Vegeterian  Thanksgiving  Dinner. 

Bisque  Glace.     Cake. 
Cheese.      Crackers. 
Preserved  Ginger. 

Coffee. 
Yellow  chrysanthemums  may  be  used  as  table  decoration. 

THANKSGIVING  DINNER. 

Clear  Soup. 

Roast  Turkey.      Cranberry  Sauce. 
Mashed  Turnips.      Mashed  Potatoes.      Canned  Corn. 

Baked  Squash. 

Fish  Salad.      Cheese  Balls. 

Chicken  Pie.      Celery.      Olives.      Pickles. 

Fruit.      Nuts. 

Pumpkin  Pie.      Apple  Pie. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Coffee. 

VEGETARIAN  THANKSGIVING  DINNER. 

Cream  of  Celery. 

Olives.      Tomatoes.      Cucumbers. 

Salted  Almonds.      Pickled  Walnuts. 

Braised  Lettuce  with  Mushroom  Sauce. 

Celery  Croquettes. 

Stewed  Oyster  Plant.      Rissoles.      Sweet  Potatoes. 
Lyonnaise  Potatoes.      Brussels  Sprouts  with  Cream  Sauce. 

Lemon  Ice. 
French  Peas. 

Baked  Stuffed  Tomatoes  with  Spaghetti. 

Fried  Squash  with  Corn  Fritters. 

Mixed  Salad.      Toasted  Crackers. 

Rice  and  Apricots.      Mixed  Fruits.      Orange  Salad. 

Cheese.     Fruits.      Nuts.      Raisins. 

Cakes.      Tea.      Coffee.      Chocolate. 


365 

Christmas  Dinner.  DINNERS.  New  Year's  Collat:on. 

CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 
Oyster  Soup. 
Roast  Goose. 

Rutabagas.      Boiled  Onions.      Sweet  Potatoes. 
Celery.      Olives.      Sweet  Pickles. 
Roast  Beef.      Browned  Potatoes. 

Russian  Salad.      Wafers. 

Mince  Pie.      Custard  Pie.      Plum  Pudding. 

Grapes.      Oranges.      Nuts.      Raisins. 

Coffee. 

NEW  YEAR'S  COLLATION. 

Spread  the  table  with  the  very  whitest  of  linen,  and  of 
the  best  quality  you  can  afford.  Potted  plants,  vines  or 
cut  flowers  may  be  used  for  decoration.  Ribbons  have 
been  in  vogue  for  some  time,  placed  flat  on  the  table  with 
bows  at  the  corners,  or  festooned  to  the  center  gas  jet. 
The  fashion  for  one  season  may  so  change  that  one  would 
be  quite  out  of  style  to  use  the  same  for  a  second  season. 
The  following  suggestions  may  serve  as  helpful  reminders 
when  preparing  for  New  Year's  calls.  Remember  always 
that  an  appetizing  sandwich  is  always  appreciated  more 
than  rich  pastry,  and  a  good  cup  of  coffee  cr  chocolate  is 
liked  by  nine  hundred  and  ninety-nine  out  of  every  thous- 
and persons,  and  the  same  large  proportion  will  honor  and 
respect  the  hostess  who  abstains  wholly  from  offering  alco- 
holic drinks.  The  quantity  imbibed  in  your  house  alone 
might  not  intoxicate,  but  when  yours  is  multiplied  by  ten, 
fifteen,  twenty  or  more,  the  result  is  very  apt  to  be  appall- 
ing. Any  of  the  following  dishes  are  suitable  for  the 
occasion :  Cold  roast  turkey,  boned  turkey,  cold  roast 
chicken,  ham,  tongue,  scalloped  oysters,  jellied  meats, 
salads,  pickles,  Charlotte  Russe,  light  and  dark  fruit  cake, 
fruits,  nuts,  ices,  coffee,  chocolate,  lemonade,  confec- 


366 

Lenten  Breakfast.  MENUS.  Easter  Dinner. 

tionery.  Two  chickens  pressed,  I  ten  pound  turkey,  2 
molds  of  Charlotte  Russe  will  suffice  for  25  persons.  A 
keen-edged  knife  will  cut  a  cake  of  ordinary  size  into  40 
pieces.  Large  pieces  should  be  avoided. 

LENTEN  BREAKFAST. 

Fresh  Dates. 

Fine  Hominy  with  Milk  or  Cream. 

Baked  Eggs.      Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 

Graham  Gems.     Coffee. 

LENTEN  DINNER. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Baked  Macaroni  with  Cheese. 
Hubbard  Squash.      Potatoes.      Lima  Beans. 

Lettuce  Salad.     Crackers. 
Baked  Indian  Pudding.     Tea. 

LENTEN  SUPPER. 
Lobster  Farcie.      Potatoes  a  la  Creme. 

Cabbage  Salad.      Hot  Rolls. 
Warm  Gingerbread.     Tea.      Stewed  Cranberries. 

EASTER  DINNER. 

Cream  Tomato  Soup. 

Scalloped  Eggs.      Brown  Bread. 

Roast  Tenderloin  of  Beef.     Succotash. 

Asparagus.     White  Turnips.     Tomatoes. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

Ambrosia.     Nuts.      Raisins.     Cake. 
Coffee. 


POTENTIAL  ENERGY  OF  FOOD. 


This  table  represents  the  fuel  value  and  comparative  amount  of  actual 
nutrients  in  the  foods  mentioned. 

Beef,  round,  rather  lean. , 
Beef,  sirloin,  rather  fat., 

Mutton,  leg , 

Mutton,  shoulder 

Mutton,  loin  (chops) .... 

Smoked  ham 

Pork,  very  fat , 

Flounder , 

Cod 

Mackerel,  rather  lean . ., 
Mackerel,  very  fat. . 
Shad  . . 
Salmon 

Salt  cod 

Salt  Mackerel . . 
Smoked  herring 
Canned  salmon. 
Oysters  ... 
Hens'  Eggs 

Cows'  milk 

Cows'  milk,  skimmed.., 
Cheese,  whole  milk. .  ., 
Cheese,  skimmed  milk. 

Butter 

Oleomargarine 

Wheat  bread 

Rye  flour , 

Beans 

Pease , 

Oatmeal 

Corn  (maize)  meal .... 

Rice 

Sugar 

Potatoes 

Turnips 


368 

Five  Food  Principles.  FOODS.  Composition  of  Food. 

THE    FIVE    FOOD    PRINCIPLES. 

The  five  food  principles  are  water,  proteids,  fats,  carbo- 
hydrates and  salts  or  mineral  matter. 

WATER  is  the  medium  which  floats  things  through  the 
body. 

THE  PROTEIDS,  called  also  albumenoids,  are  flesh  foods 
which  build  and  restore  the  body.  They  are  called  nitro- 
genous foods. 

THE  FATS  give  off  heat  and  serve  indirectly  as  a  source 
of  muscular  energy,  and  are  called  carbonaceous  foods. 

THE  CARBOHYDRATES,  sometimes  called  work  foods, 
furnish  fat  to  tissues  and  are  the  main  source  of  muscular 
energy. 

THE  SALTS  combine  with  fluids  and  solids  of  foods  and 
aid  in  forming  bone,  and  also  aid  in  the  process  of  diges- 
tion. 

Water  is  the  most  abundant  natural  product.  In  the 
human  body  fully  70  per  cent,  of  its  weight  is  water,  and 
all  the  tissues  and  secretions  and  the  hair,  nails  and  teeth 
contain  a  small  amount. 

In  a  human  body  weighing  1 50  pounds  the  average 
weight  of  the  component  parts  is  as  follows : 


p 

Water  

ounds.    Ounces. 
105 
17             4 
5 
4            6 
i             6 
13 

4 
150 

Albumen  and  similar  substances  

Fat  

Bone  t 

Cartilage   . 

Mineral  matter  ,  

Keratin  (hair,  nails  and  a  mixture  of 
nitrogenous  substances)  

Total  ....                 

The  quantity  of  food  required  to  keep  the  body  in  good 


3^9 

Uses  of  Food.  FOODS.  Evidences  of  Good  Health. 

working  condition  depends  upon  the  temperature,  the  sea- 
son and  climate,  work,  exercise  and  occupation,  age,  sex 
and  clothing. 

USES  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  BODY. 

Food  supplies  the  wants  of  the  body  in  several  ways.  It 
either — 

1 .  Is  used  to  form  the  tissues  and  fluids  of  the  body. 

2.  Is  used  to  repair  the  wastes  of  the  tissue. 

3.  Is  stored  in  the  body  for  future  consumption. 

4.  Is  consumed  as  fuel,  its  potential  energy  being  trans- 
formed  into   heat  or    muscular   energy  or  other  forms  of 
energy  required  by  the  body;  or 

5.  In  being  consumed  protects  tissue  or  other  food  from 
consumption. 

Ellen  H.  Richards  makes  the  foregoing  statements  and 
after  several  interesting  tables  goes  on  to  give  us: 

THE  EVIDENCES   OF  GOOD   HEALTH. 

How  shall  we  know  if  we  are  in  our  best  condition? 

First,  we  shall  not  be  thinking  about  it  at  all.  We  shall 
not  mind  about  the  quality  of  our  food  very  much.  Life 
will  hold  other  pleasures  for  us. 

Mere  motion,  action,  work,  that  is,  use  of  muscular 
power,  brings  a  delightful  sense  of  life  and  force.  The 
healthy  workman  goes  to  his  day's  work  with  vigor  in  his 
step,  the  school  boy  to  his  desk  with  eagerness. 

If  we  find  aurselves  sluggish  and  tired  in  the  morning  it 
is  because  something  is  wrong.  The  standard  of  good 
health  is  for  all  alike  the  CONSCIOUSNESS  OF  POWER.  We 
ask,  How  much  poiver  of  ivork  is  there  in  the  food  we  eat? 
— how  much  food  do  we  need  for  a  day's  work?  We  call 
this  power  ENERGY,  and  we  reckon  the  force  in  Calories, 
that  is  in  the  mechanical  equivalent  of  heat.  This  is  the 
starting  point  of  all  our  modern  work  in  dietetics. 


37Q 

Chafing  Dish  Cookery.  COOKERY.  Chafing  Dish  Co   kery. 

The  modern  standard,  then,  of  good  health  is  energy, 
power  to  do  work;  and  by  work  we  mean  thinking,  invent- 
ing, painting,  writing,  just  as  much  as  swinging  a  sledge 
hammer. 

CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY. 

The  modern  chafing  dish  complete  consists  of  stand  and 
lamp,  the  blazer  or  dish  proper,  a  cutlet  dish  and  the  hot 
water  pan.  The  cutlet  dish  does  not  come  with  many  of 
them,  and  in  the  cheap  ones  the  hot  water  pan  is  also  left 
out;  but  any  cheap  basin  will  answer  the  purpose.  The 
wick  in  the  lamp  must  be  looked  after.  The  asbestos  wick^ 
or  the  common  ball  five-stranded  lamp  wick  (cut  into 
5-inch  lengths,  and  12  to  14  of  these  rolled  together)  may 
be  used  with  equal  satisfaction.  Trim  the  wicks  evenly  at 
the  top  and  fill  the  lamp  about  half  full  of  alcohol.  It  is 
not  necessary  to  use  high  proof  spirits;  wood  alcohol  will 
answer  and  comes  much  cheaper.  Keep  the  wicks  quite 
low  and  do  not  light  them  until  ready  to  begin  operations. 

As  a  general  rule  the  cooking  is  done  in  the  blazer — 
over  the  flame  when  a  quick,  intense  heat  is  required,  and 
over  the  hot  water  to  re-warm  or  cook  more  slowly.  Put 
out  the  light  as  soon  as  the  cooking  is  finished.  Heat  the 
dishes  beforehand  and  prepare  the  foods  for  the  chafing 
dish  in  the  kitchen  before  seating  yourself  at  the  table  with 
the  chafing  dish  before  you. 

Wafers  or  pieces  of  toast  are  the  usual  accompaniment 
to  chafing  dish  foods.  Anything  to  re-warm  or  anything 
that  will  cook  quickly  can  be  done  in  a  chafing  dish, 
whether  fish,  flesh,  fowl,  eggs  or  vegetables. 


37* 

Soups.  FRENCH    TRANSLATION.  Shell-Fish. 

TRANSLATION  OF  FRENCH  TERMS  IN 

MODERN   MENUS. 

One  is  often  at  a  loss  to  know  what  is  to  be  served  when 
confronted  with  a  modern  menu  card.  The  following  em- 
braces nearly  all  ordinary  dishes  from  first  course  to  last. 

SOUPS. 

FRENCH.  ENGLISH. 

Consomme  de  boeuf  Clair.  . .  .Amber  or  clear  soup. 

Potage  aux  croutons Soup  with  bread. 

Consomme  aux  legumes Soup  with  vegetables. 

Consomme  aux  haricots  verts.  Clear  soup  with  French  beans. 

Consomme  aux  nouilles Noodle  Soup. 

Potage  printanier Spring  soup. 

Potage  aux  queues  de  boeuf  . .  Oxtail  soup. 
Potage  a  la  puree  de  volaille .  Chicken  puree. 
Potage  a  la  fausse  tortue  ....  Mock  turtle. 

Potage  aux  huitres Oyster. 

Puree  legumes Vegetable  puree. 

Soup  a  1'oignon ............  Onion  soup. 

Potage  puree  de  pommes 

de  terre Potato  soup. 

Potage  a  la  puree  de  haricots.  Bean  soup. 

•Potage  a  la  St!  Germain Green  pea  soup  with  peas. 

Consomme  tortue  verte Green  turtle  soup. 

Bisque  de  crabes Crab  soup. 

Puree  de  gibier Game  soup. 

Puree  a  la  queue  de  boeuf  . .  .Oxtail  soup. 
Consomme  aux  pates  d'ltalie. Italian  paste. 
Consomme  a  la  paysanne ....  Peasant  soup. 

Consomme  a  la  careme Lenten  soup. 

Consomme  aux  lentilles Lentil  soup. 

Consomme  gombo Gumbo  soup. 

Consomme  en  tasse Consomme  in  cups. 

SHELL-FISH. 

HUITRES  ET  CLOVIS.  OYSTERS  AND  CLAMS. 

Huitres  sur  coquille Oysters  on  half  shell. 

Huitres  roties Oysters  roasted, 


372 

Fish.  FRENCH    TRANSLATION.  Chicken  and  Game. 

Huitres  au  gratin Oysters  escaloped. 

Huitres  a  la  poulette Oysters  fricassee. 

Clovis  sur  coquille Little  Neck  clams. 

Clovis  frites Fried  clams. 

Croquettes  de  clovis    Clam  fritters. 

FISH. 

FRENCH.  ENGLISH. 

Saumon  au  bleu Salmon   boiled  in  court    bou- 
illon. . 

Saumon  grille Salmon  broiled. 

Saumon  Saute Salmon  scalloped. 

Saumon,  sauce  persil Salmon,  parsley  sauce. 

Morue  a  la  bechamel Cod,  bechamel  sauce. 

Morue  a  la  creme Cod  with  cream  sauce. 

Darne  d'  esturgeon  rotie Roast  fillet  of  sturgeon. 

Truite,  sauce  genevoise Trout,  Geneva  sauce. 

Maquereaux  a  la  flamande. .  .Flemish  mackerel. 

Poisson  varies Panfish. 

Perche  blanche White  perch. 

Poisson  bleu Bluefish. 

Eperlans  frits Smelts,  fried,  plain. 

Coquille  St.    Jacques,  frites ..  Scallops,   fried. 

Poisson  blanc Whitefish. 

Morue  frite  au  petit  sale Codfish,  fried  with  bacon. 

Ablettes Whitebait. 

Oeufs  d'  alose Shad  roe. 

Maquereau  espagnol Spanish  mackerel. 

Crabes  mblles Soft  shell  crab. 

Homard  au  naturel Lobster,  plain. 

Saumon  frais Fresh  salmon. 

Filet  de  sole,  frit Fillet  of  sole,  fried  plain. 

CHICKEN  AND  GAME. 

VOLAILLE  ET  GIBIER.  CHICKEN  AND  GAME. 

Jeune  poulet,  demi Spring  chicken,  half. 

Jeune  poulet,  entier Spring  chicken,  whole. 

Foies  de  volaille  en  brochetteChicken's  livers  en  brochette, 
Pigerronnaux  au  cresson Squabs  with  watercresses. 


373 

Meat.  FRENCH    TRANSLATION.  Sauces. 

Poule  de  prairie,  entier Grouse,  whole. 

Poule  de  prairie,  demi Grouse,  half. 

Perdreau,  entier Partridge,  whole. 

Perdreau,  demi Partridge,  half. 

Filet  de  chevreuil,  grille Venison  steak,  broiled. 

Caille Quail. 

Pigeon  ramier Wild  pigeon. 

Pluvier Plover. 

Chapon,  farcie Capon,  stuffed. 

Courlis Doe  birds. 

Ortolans Reed  birds. 

Dinde Turkey. 

Dinde  aux  marrons Boiled  turkey  with  chestnuts. 

MEAT. 

FRENCH.  ENGLISH. 

Tendrons  d'aqueau  aux  pointes  Braised  breasts  of  lamb  and 

d'asperges asparagus. 

Ros  bif  aux  pommes  de  terre .  Roast  beef  and  potatoes. 

Cotolettes  de  veau Veal  cutlets. 

Poitrine  de  veau  aux  petit 

pois  . . Breast  of  veal  with  green  peas. 

Pieds  de  mouton  frits Sheep's  trotters  fried. 

Petit  sale  aux  choux Salt  pork  and  cabbage. 

Noix  de  bceuf  braisee Braised  chump  of  beef. 

Haricot Stewed  mutton  with  kidney 

beans. 

Cochon  de  lait Sucking  pig. 

Filet  de  boeuf  aux  champig-    Tenderloin  of  beef  with  mush- 

nons rooms. 

Ris  deveau  Piques  et  braises.  Sweetbreads  braised  and 

larded. 
Paupiet  tes    de    bosuf   aux 

olives Beef,  olives. 

Aloyau  de  boeuf > .  . .  Loin  of  beef. 

SAUCES. 

Sauce  allemande German  sauce. 

Sauce  a  la  Bechamel .  .  . .  Bechamel  sauce. 


374 

Sauces.  FRENCH    TRANSLATION.  Vegetables. 

Sauce  au  beurre Fresh  butter  sauce. 

Sauce  au  homard Lobster  sauce. 

Sauce  au  pautre  homme Poor  man's  sauce. 

Sauce  aux  capres Caper  sauce. 

Sauce  aux  crevettes Shrimp  sauce. 

Sauce  au  kari Curry  sauce. 

Sauce  Hollandaise Dutch  Sauce. 

Cabilland  sauce  aux  huitres..Cod  oyster  sauce. 

VEGETABLES. 

LEGUMES.  VEGETABLES. 

Pommes  de  terre,  bouillies.  .  .Potatoes,  boiled. 

Pommes  de  terre,  frites Potatoes,  fried. 

Pommes  de  terre,  Saratoga.  .  .Potatoes,  Saratoga. 
Pommes  de  terre  cuites  au 

four Potatoes,  baked. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  maitre  Potatoes  stewed  with  fine 

d'hotel herbs. 

Pommes  de  terre,  a  la  lyon- 

naise Potatoes,  Lyonnaise. 

Patates  ou  pomms  douces, 

frites Potatoes,  fried  sweet. 

Patates  ou  pommes  hachees 

a  la  creme Potatoes,  hashed  with  cream 

Patates  ou  pommes  a  la 

Parisienne Parisian  potatoes. 

Puree  de  pommes  de  terre .  .  .  Mashed  potatoes. 
Patates  ou  hachees  et  frites.  .Potatoes,  hashed  fried. 
Patates  ou  a  la  persillade ....  Potatoes  with  parsley. 

Epinards Spinach. 

Haricots  verts String  beans. 

Beignets  de  panais Parsnip  fritters. 

Croute  aux  champignon Mushrooms  on  toast. 

Coquilles  de  champignon.  .  .  .Mushrooms  in  shells. 

Topinambours Jerusalem  artichokes. 

Carottes  a  la  creme Carrots,  cream  sauce. 

Courge  a  la  paysanne Squash,  country  style. 

Petits  pois  au  beurre Peas  with  butter. 

Tomates  farcies  .  .  ...  Stuffed  tomatoes. 


375 

Vegetables.  FRENCH    TRANSLATION.  Bread. 

Choux  fleurs  a  la  creme Cauliflower  with  cream  dress- 
ing. 

Macaroni  au  gratin Macaroni  baked  with  cheese. 

Spaghetti,  a  la  napolitaine. .  .Spaghetti,  Neapolitan. 

Croquettes  de  riz Rice  croquettes. 

Asperges  nouvelles New  asparagus. 

Haricots  verts  francais New  French  peas. 

Haricots  verts  nouveaux New  green  peas. 

Salsifis Egg  plant. 

Aubergine Oyster  plant. 

BREAD. 

Fetits  pains  au  beurre .......  French  rolls  and  butter. 

Petits  pains  au  lait Milk  rolls. 

Souffle  aux  reufs Egg  puffs. 

Pain  de  niais  ou  de  Graham ..  Graham  or  corn  bread. 

Pain  grille Dry  toast. 

Pain  grille  a  1'eau Dipped  toast. 

Pain  grille  au  lait Milk  toast. 

Pain  grille  a  la  creme Cream  toast. 

Gaufres Waffles. 

Pain  prun  de  Boston Boston  brown  bread. 

o 


USEFUL  HOUSEHOLD  HINTS. 


OLD  CITIZEN  TO  A  YOUNG  WIFE.        THE  TABLE. 
THE  HO  US  EH  OLD.        M  ISC  ELL  A  NEO  US. 


OL(D   CITIZEN  TO  A  YOUJJJ  WIFE. 


OU  have  noticed  the  monotony  of  existence, 
of  course.  With  your  husband  the  round  of 
life  is  by  days.  With  you  it  is  three  times 
as  short,  or  by  meals.  Having-  to  prepare 
food  three  times  a  day,  indefinitely,  you  find 
that  there  are  only  narrow  lines  of  eatables 
which  can  be  relied  on  implicitly.  However 
fancifully  you  may  cook  certain  things,  there  are  certain 
other  articles  which  can  be  simply  gotten  up,  and  which  will 
give  better  satisfaction.  You  will  find  that,  for  a  steady  jog 
over  the  course  of  life,  yourself  and  husband  will  rely  largely 
on  good  bread,  butter,  coffee,  potatoes,  beef,  and  mutton. 
These,  with  the  fruits  which  come  along  already  cooked, 
make  up  a  constant  bill  of  fare  which  puts  strength  in  the 
limbs  and,  I  think  I  may  say,  nobility  in  the  heart.  Now, 
if  I  can  give  any  little  hint  about  these  cardinal  elements  of 
vitality  which  will  hurry  on  your  own  conclusions,  then  any 
excuse  for  having  opened  my  mouth  at  all  will  be  sufficient. 
Now,  about  bread.  The  old-fashioned  way  of  making 
"sponge"  is  the  best.  If  your  motker  or  your  grandmother 
can  tell  you  how  to  make  the  bag  of  corn-meal  stuff  and 
then  the  more  fleeting  jar  of  wet,  sour,  and  uncomfortable 
mixture,  you  will  have  light  bread.  The  compressed  yeast 
of  the  grocer  never  yields  the  same  results.  Again,  if  you 
live  in  the  city,  the  "  Vienna  bread  "  will  give  you  a  good 
deal  for  your  money.  The  true  u  Vienna  bake  "  has  cracks 
in  the  roll,  where  the  gas  has  escaped  in  heating.  This 
bread  averages  better  than  you  or  any  other  person  with  a 
small  oven  can  bake.  It  never  palls  on  the  taste.  If  you 
*46 


378 

Butter  TO  A  YOUNG  WIFE.  Coffee. 

have  but  two  in  the  family,  it  is  cheaper  than  home-made 
bakings  of  equal  freshness. 

Butter,  since  the  introduction  of  grease  into  its  manufac- 
ture, has  become  a  problem.  You  cannot  be  sure  that  you 
are  getting  what  you  pay  for,  except  during  June.  In  June, 
butter  is  grass-sweet,  and  cannot  be  mistaken.  If  your  grocer 
has  butter  at  twenty,  twenty-three,  and  twenty-eight  cents, 
pay  him  twenty-eight  cents.  When  it  comes  June,  ob- 
serve whether  or  not  the  first-class  butter  is  grass-sweet. 
If  not,  your  grocer  is  a  rascal,  and  you  must  make  a  change 
at  all  hazards.  If  the  grocer  be  honest  he  buys  honestly. 
His  best  butter  will  have  little  or  no  grease  in  it.  I  am 
inclined  to  think  this  particular  grease  brings  on  the  fearful 
winter  cholera  which  has  made  its  appearance  simultane- 
ously with  the  invention  of  oleomargarine.  "  Butter"  set  in 
a  north  window,  exposed  to  the  outside  air,  will  often  turn 
deathly  white  if  there  be  grease  in  it,  and  by  "  grease  "  I, 
of  course,  mean  the  rendering  fat  of  the  slaughter-houses. 
Let  your  grocer  understand  that  you  resent  grease  in  your 
butter  ;  he  will  then  make  an  effort  to  save  you  from  that 
trial.  Never  hesitate  in  paying  the  highest  price.  The 
grocer  deals  with  many  who  want  "first-class"  butter  at  a 
second-class  price.  They  do  not  wish  to  be  told  they  are 
not  buying  the  best.  Let  him  know  that  you  are  not  a 
hypocrite  in  this  matter.  Good  butter  is  the  cheapest  for 
all  purposes,  principally  on  account  of  your  health. 

A  good  cup  of  coffee  is  a  "square  meal"  in  itself.  I  can 
tell  you  just  how  to  get  it.  Buy  the  best  grades.  If  you 
choose  roasted,  have  the  grocer  grind  it  before  your  eyes. 
Buy  only  one  pound.  Keep  it  in  a  tin  canister.  You  need 
two-thirds  of  a  pound  of  Java  and  one-third  of  a  pound  of 
Mocha.  Go  to  the  tinner's  with  a  common,  large  coffee-pot. 
This  ought  to  cost  35  cents.  Have  the  tinner  make  an  in- 
side can  something  like  a  "  plug-hat,"  with  a  rim.  On  the 
inside  of  the  pot,  a  little  below  the  top,  set  out  four  tin 
shoulders  to  catch  the  rim  of  the  inside  can  as  it  is  set 
down  into  the  pot.  The  bottom  of  the  inside  can  should 
almost  touch  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  This  ought  to  cost 
about  60  cents  more.  Now,  this  inside  can  should  hold  the 
grounds  and  water  for  four  cups  of  coffee.  To  make  the 
coffee,  use  a  "top-full"  and  a  little  more  of  coffee,  and  pour 
water  to  fill  up  the  inside  can.  Then  hang  the  can  in  about 
three  inches  of  water  in  the  big  pot.  This  will  cook  the 
coffee  as  glue  or  oatmeal  should  be  cooked.  The  aroma 


379 

Mashed  Potatoes.  TO  A  YOUNG  WIFE.  Good  Meat. 

will  be  in  the  coffee,  instead  of  up  stairs  in  the  parlor  or 
bedroom.  If  your  husband  has  to  hurry  to  business  in  the 
morning,  get  an  oil-stove  without  any  "extras,"  two  wicks, 
and  the  coffee  will  cook  in  twenty  minutes.  That  is  about 
all  an  oil-stove  is  good  for — to  hurry  up  a  coal  stove.  The 
coffee  is  done  when  the  grounds  have  sunk.  Put  absolutely 
nothing  in  it  save  cream  and  sugar.  This  coffee  will  make 
your  husband  love  you.  -It  is  a  love-philter  of  the  strongest 
nature.  He  will  famish  when  he  goes  elsewhere  for  a  meal. 

Your  potatoes  should  be  of  the  same  size,  peeled  and 
cooked  in  cold  water  to  start  with.  When  they  are  fairly 
done,  drain  them  excellently  well,  and  keep  the  cover  off 
them  carefully.  Do  not  let  the  steam  strike  in.  Mash  and 
mash  and  mash.  Potatoes  will  stand  a  great  lot  of  salt,  and 
butter  is  thrown  away  on  them,  I  am  afraid.  You  can  try 
that,  however ;  what  I  am  after  is  a  dish  of  dry,  mashed 
potatoes,  as  flaky  as  the  snow  in  a  blizzard.  Some  people's 
potatoes  are  as  slushy  as  hop  yeast.  Bah  !  There  are 
housewives  who  never  have  wet  mashed  potatoes,  and  I  have 
given  you  their  exact  mode.  If  yours  continue  sloppy, 
simplify  the  proceeding  ;  do  not  slice  ;  be  careful  about  the 
steam,  and  mash  and  mash. 

If  you  live  in  the  city,  beef  is  your  constant  trouble.  It 
is  beef,  beef,  beef,  until  you  sicken  at  the  sound  and  turn 
paler  still  at  the  thing  itself.  Your  reliance  here  must  be 
on  the  Lord  and  in  the  butcher.  It  is  the  butcher's  inter- 
est to  sell  you  all  his  bad  beef  first,  and  you  will  find  him 
singularly  true  to  his  interests.  It  is  a  good  idea  to  change 
butchers  once  a  month.  Buy,  however,  at  the  center  of  the 
city,  if  possible.  The  nearer  the  limits  the  poorer  the  meat, 
as  a  rule.  Good  meat  costs — but  it  is  all  eatable  and  digest- 
ible. I  have  found  it  the  safest  rule  to  buy  the  fattest.  The 
marbled  appearance  sometimes  comes  from  the  sudden  fat- 
tening on  swill  of  a  tough  old  cow.  A  good  porter-house 
steak  is  as  long  as  a  large  platter,  and  is  grateful  to  the  taste, 
tail,  fat,  and  all.  This,  broiled  on  a  big  bed  of  coals,  turned 
often,  and  dressed  with  melted  butter,  pepper,  salt,  slices  of 
lemon  and  bits  of  parsely  tops,  is  the  best  eating  in  the 
world.  It  makes  one  hungry  to  think  of  it  !  Never  fry 
meat  in  lard.  But  you  can  neither  get  nor  afford  this  big 
porter-house  regularly.  Do  the  best  you  can  with  your  own 
butcher.  His  meat  is  not  fit.  to  eat.  Tell  him  so.  He 
knows  it.  But  it  is  up  to  the  demand.  That  is  what  he  is 
after.  When  you  go  down  town  you  get  where  they  have 


380 

Poultry  TO  A  YOUNG  WIFE.  Medicine. 

to  have  better  meat.  Never  buy  mutton  far  from  the  center 
of  the  city,  under  any  circumstances.  Have  your  husband 
go  into  a  shop  where  the  sides  hang.  You  want  a  young 
wether  with  three  inches  of  fat  on  the  outside.  You  want 
no  bucks.  The  buck  is  high  over  the  shoulders — a  regular 
hump.  No  real  wether  ever  grows  high  there.  You  don't 
want  any  ewe,  either.  Cut  from  the  ribs  about  as  many  as 
you  can  eat — a  hungry  man  can  eat  two  or  three.  The 
butcher  will  clip  off  an  inch  of  the  fat.  You  will  have  a  time 
of  broiling  it,  for  it  will  burn  like  oil.  But,  on  the  table,  it 
is  the  healthiest  meat  in  the  world.  It  comes  close  to  being 
the  best  tasting.  The  bad  popular  idea  of  mutton  comes 
from  the  fact  that  the  lean  bucks  all  go  towards  the  limits 
of  the  city  to  be  sold.  After  a  meal  of  gilt-edged  broiled 
mutton,  your  husband  will  think  this  is  quite  a  good  world 
to  get  along  in. 

As  for  yourself  you  thrive  best  on  poultry.  Have  it  often. 
You  are,  probably,  not  a  bad  judge  of  a  chicken.  Twist 
the  wing.  See  that  the  butcher  has  not  already  twisted  it 
before  you!  Never,  my  dear  friend,  trust  your  stomach  with 
the  digestion  of  pork.  It  is  a  meat  unfit  for  female  food. 
Use  lard  about  as  much  as  you  use  calomel.  Cake  is  not 
so  dyspeptic  as  pies.  I  think  the  butter  makes  the  difference. 
Avoid  frying  for  weeks  at  a  time  ;  make  your  own  experi- 
ments in  this  matter.  Our  fresh  water  fish  are  the  very 
best.  In  little  lakes  they  get  bad  in  July.  In  cold  lakes  they 
keep  good  longer.  Keep  honey,  dried  peaches,  and  prunes 
on  hand  to  regulate  your  bowels.  Some  people  can  eat 
neither  milk  nor  cheese,  nor  eggs  (except  in  March).  Ex- 
periment with  them.  People  with  the  piles  must  not  eat 
tomatoes  at  all.  Cider  is  a  magnificent  thing  for  bad  livers, 
catarrh,  and  other  troubles  which  come  from  or  cause  bad 
action  of  the  bowels.  You  see  I  mix  medicine  with  meals  ; 
it  cuts  down  doctors'  bills. 

It  may  strike  you  that  I  have  laid  out  a  costly  schedule. 
You  must,  therefore,  be  more  economical  elsewhere.  I 
have  calculated  on  shaving  off  a  little  from  physic  and  tonic 
in  order  to  put  it  on  the  porter-house  and  mutton  chops. 
Physic  and  tonic  come  high.  Think  how  much  longer  your 
husband  will  live  on  first-class  food !  Waste  of  such  ma- 
terials can  have  no  fitting  apology.  JOHN  McGovERN. 


THE  TABLE. 


DESCRIPTION   OF    COLORED    PLATES.          DINNER  ETIQUET. 
BILLS  OF  FARE.        CHILDREN '  .9  PART} '.        CAR  VING. 


NDER  the  head  of  "The  Table,"  I  include 
the  setting  of  the  table,  the  garnishing  or 
decorating  the  dishes,  the  etiquet  of  the 
table,  and  carving.  Dishes  must  be  good 
and  well  cooked,  of  course.  To  have  them 
tastefully  arranged  and  gracefully  served  is 
not  less  important.  Nothing  displays  the 
housewife's  taste  more.  When  the  food  is  rich  it  gives  it  an 
added  charm.  When  plain  it  will  atone  for  the  lack.  No 
one  is  insensible  to  its  influence.  Many  housekeepers  sadly 
neglect  this  branch  of  their  art,  for  to  serve  the  food  well 
is  an  art,  and  no  unimportant  one,  either.  It  will  pay  you 
to  study  it.  Excel  in  it,  if  you  can. 


<£>ESC<RI<PTIOJ1  OF  COLCKRE®  PLATES. 

These  colored  plates  have  been  prepared  to  illustrate  the 
manner  of  garnishing  dishes.  Any  housewife  can  set  her 
table  artistically  by  simply  adopting  the  suggestions  made 
here  and  in  the  chapter  on  Garnishing  —  pages  117  and  118. 

PLATE  I. 

Cake  with  Ornamental  Frosting.  —  Bake  a  handsome  loaf 
cake  and  frost  rather  thinly  with  plain  white  icing.  Let  get 
dry  before  using  the  ornamentation.  Make  a  cone  out  of 
some  stiff  writing  paper,  and  fasten  together  with  paste  or 
white  of  egg.  Mark  on  the  dry  icing  with  a  lead  pencil  any 
design  desired  for  vine,  wreath,  or  flowers.  For  the  orna- 
mental frosting,  use  about  a  pound  of  fine  icing  sugar  to  the 
whites  of  three  eggs.  Put  half  the  sugar  with  the  eggs  in  a 
bowl  and  beat  vigorously  with  a  small  wooden  paddle.  Then 
add  half  a  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  half  the  remaining 
sugar  and  beat  still  longer.  Beat  away,  and  add  a  very 
little  sugar  at  a  time  until  of  the  right  consistency  to  flo\v 
through  the  cone.  Fill  the  cone  three-fourths  full  and  fold 


382 

Plate  I.  COLORED  PLATES.  Plate  II. 

the  end  down  and  cut  off  the  point  to  form  the  size  of  hole 
required.  Now  guide  the  cone  with  the  left  hand  and  press 
the  icing  out  by  putting  the  right  thumb  on  the  folded  part 
of  the  cone.  Follow  the  lines,  making  light  or  heavy,  as  ex- 
perience-will soon  teach  you.  Leave  room  on  the  top  for 
some  flowers.  A  Bride's  Cake  should  be  placed  on  a  lace 
paper. 

Fruit. — This  is  a  simple  arrangement  of  apples  and  pears 
with  green  leaves  interspersed. 

Epergne. — A  vase  of  flowers  is  at  the  top.  The  fruit-dish 
proper  is  filled  with  grapes,  bananas,  and  oranges. 

Salad — Garnished. — This  may  represent  any  salad,  either 
vegetable,  fish,  or  chicken.  Arrange  green  leaves  of  parsley, 
celery  tops,  or  curled  lettuce  as  prettily  as  may  be,  across  the 
top.  Capers  may  be  used  effectively. 

Lobster — Garnished. — The  lobster  (boiled)  may  be  placed 
upon  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce,  with  a  garnish  of  halves  of  cold, 
hard-boiled  eggs,  as  seen  in  the  cut. 

PLATE  II. 

Mackerel. — Slices  of  lemon  are  placed  on  the  boiled 
mackerel,  and  parsley  used  as  a  further  garnish. 

Small  Fish. — Parsley,  curled  lettuce,  or  fringed  celery  are 
placed  as  seen  in  the  cut. 

Roast  Haunch  of  Mutton. — Any  sprigs  of  green  that  are 
at  hand  may  be  used  to  ornament  the  dish  as  represented. 

Baked  FisJi. — Lemons  are  cut  in  halves  and  the  rind 
notched  like  saw-teeth  as  seen  in  the  cut,  and  placed  alter- 
nately with  sprigs  of  green. 

Porter-House  Steak. — Thin  slices  of  lemon  are  placed  on 
the  steak,  and  sprigs  of  green  around  it. 

Slices  of  Cold  Meat. — Slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  green 
are  placed  as  seen  in  the  cut. 

PLATE  III 

Roast  Leg  of  Pork. — Sprigs  of  green  are  placed  on  the 
platter  close  to  the  roast.  (Slices  of  lemon  might  be  added 
to  this.) 

Fowl. — There  are  sprigs  of  parsley  at  either  end,  and  little 
dots  of  cranberry  sauce  around  the  edge. 

Roast  Pig. — Mr.  Piggy  has  a  baked  apple  in  his  mouth, 
•while  his  tail  and  legs  rest  on  sprigs  of  green. 


383 

Plate  III.  COLORED  PLATES.  Set  Table. 

Roast  Turkey. — Fried  link  sausages  alternated  with  green 
celery  tops  are  placed  entirely  around  the  turkey. 

Fillet  of  Veal. — Slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  green  are 
placed  around  the  fillet  as  shown  in  the  cut. 

Forequarter  of  Lamb. — Curled  lettuce  or  other  green 
garnish  may  be  used  for  this  roast. 

SET  TABLE. 

If  soup  be  served  as  a  first  course,  the  cut  may  be  con- 
sidered as  representing  the  table  as  made  ready  for  the  next 
course. 

Flowers  add  to  the  appearance  of  any  table,  and  are 
always  in  good  taste.  When  the  caster  is  used,  the  flowers 
may  be  in  two  bouquets  at  the  ends  of  the  table.  A  new 
custom  now  adopted  by  many  families  is  to  dispense  with 
the  caster.  This  gives  room  on  the  table  for  a  center-piece 
of  flowers  either  in  a  vase  or  glass.  The  pretty  little  glass 
vinegar  jug  with  the  equally  pretty  pepper  and  salt  bottles 
now  to  be  found  in  any  crockery  store  serve  the  purpose  of 
a  caster.  In  the  cut,  I  have  retained  the  caster,  as  the  ma- 
jority of  housekeepers  might  be  unwilling  to  discard  it. 
The  pepper  and  salt  bottles  are  also  represented,  although 
the  peppers  are  not  necessary  if  the  caster  is  used.  Those 
who  prefer  individual  salt-cellars,  will,  of  course,  use  them. 

The  knife  and  fork  are  sometimes  placed  side  by  side 
horizontally,  sometimes  the  fork  at  the  left  and  the  knife  at 
right  angles  to  it  just  beyond  the  plate,  and  sometimes  as 
seen  in  the  cut.  With  so  many  different  tastes,  there  can  be 
no  absolute  rule. 

Goblets  may  be  grouped  together  on  a  sideboard,  on  a 
side  table,  in  a  tray  at  one  end  of  the  table,  or  one  put  at 
each  place,  as  seen  in  the  picture. 

Napkins  are  folded  in  all  varieties  of  shapes.  On  the 
whole,  the  simple  square  fold,  I  think,  is  preferable  to  all 
others,  in  which  case  lay  one  at  each  place.  In  the  picture, 
they  show  to  better  advantage  in  the  goblets. 

In  cold  weather,  the  plates  are  heated  and  put  in  a  pile  at 
the  carver's  place. 

In  families  where  no  servant  is  kept,  it  is  perfectly  proper 
for  a  guest  to  assist,  in  waiting  upon  any  dish  sufficiently 
near.  One  may  help  to  the  butter,  another  to  the  cran- 
berry or  other  sauce,  and  another  to  the  vegetable  that  is  to 
be  served  in  a  separate  dish.  Two  kinds  of  vegetables  are 
quite  enough  for  the  host  to  wait  upon,  especially  when  a 


384  _____ 

Set  Table.  COLORED  PLATES.  Dinner  Etiquet. 

turkey  is  to  be  carved,  for  he  must  also  help  to  the  dressing 
and  the  gravy. 

When  this  course  is  finished,  remove  the  plates,  knives  and 
forks,  platter,  and  vegetable  dishes.  Brush  the  table-cloth 
with  a  crumb  brush. 

If  the  dessert  be  pie  or  pudding,  it  should  be  brought  on 
in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked  and  placed  with  plates 
before  the  host  or  hostess,  either  of  whom  may  serve  it. 
If  pie,  let  the  one  who  serves  it  put  a  fork  upon  each 
plate.  If  it  be  pudding  requiring  a  spoon,  the  spoon-holder 
may  be  passed  to  each  one.  For  cake  and  fruit,  put  a  plate 
with  knife  and  fork  at  each  place  and  pass  the  dessert 
around. 


ETIQUET. 


The  best  dinners,  and  those  that  give  most  pleasure  and 
satisfaction  both  to  guests  and  hostess,  are  not  necessarily 
the  most  expensive  or  ceremonious.  First  of  all,  in  issuing 
invitations,  be  sure  that  your  guests  are  similar  in  taste  and 
in  the  same  social  scale.  Then,  a  cordial  welcome  ;  a  cheery 
dining  room  ;  with  bright  conversation  and  a  delicate  atten- 
tion to  each  guest  ;  with  dishes  well  cooked  and  daintily 
served,  will  insure  a  charming  meal,  and  you  will  be  pro- 
nounced a  Royal  hostess. 

WHOM  TO  INVITE. 

Great  tact  should  be  exercised  in  selecting  guests  for  a 
dinner  party.  Those  moving  in  the  same  social  circle  and 
of  known  congeniality  should  be  brought  together. 

Avoid  bringing  in  contact  those  who  are  not  on  friendly 
terms  with  one  another. 

Persons  of  literary  tastes  should  be  invited  with  artists 
and  musicians.  Religiously-inclined  persons  would  not  be 
agreeably  entertained  by  those  inclined  to  theatricals  or 
dancing. 

Gentlemen  should  not  be  invited  to  a  mixed  company 
without  their  wives.  And  ladies  should  not  be  invited  with- 
out their  husbands  if  other  ladies  and  their  husbands  are  in- 
vited. 

Invitations  should  be  sent  by  messenger,  and  not  mailed, 
unless  to  persons  out  of  town. 


385 

Irvitations.  DINNER  ETIQUET.  "  Dinner  is  Ready." 

INVITATIONS. 

Among  a  variety  of  forms,  we  give  one  of  Invitation,  one 
of  Acceptance,  and  one  of  Regret : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Guy  Livingstone 

request  the  pleasure  of 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roy  Hamilton's  • 

company  at  dinner ', 
On  Friday,  Jan.  Second,  1883, 

At  Six  o'clock. 
5030  Washington  Boulevard. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hamilton  write  an  Acceptance  as  follows  : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roy  Hamilton  accept  with  pleasure  the  invitation  of  Mr.  and 
<frs.  Livingstone  to  dinner  on  January  Second,  at  six  o'clock. 

Or,  if  circumstances  require  it,  send  Regrets,  as  follows  : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hamilton  regret  that  a  previous  engagement  will  prevent  them 
from  accepting  the  kind  invitation  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Livingstone  for  January 
Second. 

In  a  note  of  acceptance  it  is  well  to  name  the  day  and  the 
hour,  to  avoid  any  possible  mistake. 

If  the  dinner  is  very  ceremonious,  the  invitations  should 
be  sent  out  from  one  to  two  weeks  in  advance.  If  not  very 
formal,  from  two  days  to  a  week  are  regarded  as  sufficient 
time. 

An  answer  should  be  returned  at  once,  that  the  hostess 
may  make  her  arrangements  accordingly. 

Guests  should  arrive  about  fifteen  minutes  before  the 
hour  named  for  the  dinner.  A  delay  beyond  the  hour  is  un- 
pardonable. A  hostess  ought  never  to  wait  beyond  fifteen 
minutes  for  a  tardy  guest.  When  the  guests  are  all  assem- 
bled, after  removing  their  wraps,  the  hostess  will  inform  each 
gentlemen  whom  he  is  to  escort  to  the  table. 

"DINNER  is  READY." 

Let  dinner  be  announced  quietly  by  the  attendant  to  the 
hostess,  who  nods  to  the  host  and  he  leads  the  way  with  the 
lady  assigned  to  him.  This  may  be  the  eldest  lady  present, 
or  a  lady  for  whom  the  dinner  is  given,  or  a  bride.  The 
other  guests  follow,  the  ladies  on  the  right  arm  of  their  es- 
corts, followed  by  the  hostess  with  the  most  distinguished 
*47 


386 ^ 

The  Table  DINNER  ETIQU.ET.  The  Dinner. 

gentleman,  or  the  one  whom  she  wishes  to  honor,  placing 
him  at  her  right  hand,  she  being  opposite  the  host.  The 
guests  all  remain  standing  until  she  seats  herself.  The 
ladies  are  assisted  to  seats  by  their  escorts,  who  immediately 
seat  themselves.  The  ladies  sit  at  the  right  of  their  escorts. 
The  host  and  hostess  may  sit  at  opposite  sides  or  at  oppo- 
site ends,*  as  seems  most  convenient. 

If  guests  who  are  unacquainted  find  themselves  side  by 
side  at  the  dinner  table,  it  is  perfectly  proper  for  them  to 
engage  in  conversation.  It  is  not  etiquet  for  husbands  or 
brothers  to  escort  their  own  wives  or  sisters. 

THE  TABLE. 

The  table-cloth  should  be  white  and  spotless,  and  of  as 
"  fine  linen"  as  the  means  of  the  hostess  will  justify.  Let  the 
napkins  be  large,  of  fine  texture,  and  unstarched.  Under 
the  table-cloth  should  be  placed  a  thick  spread  to  deaden 
the  sound.  Cotton  flannel  or  baize  may  be  used.  An  epergne 
of  fruit  and  flowers,  or  a  center-piece  of  flowers,  is  always 
in  good  taste.  A  tiny  bouquet  in  bouquet-holder,  or  tied 
neatly  with  a  ribbon,  placed  at  the  plate  of  each  lady  guest, 
and  a  button-hole  bouquet  for  each  gentleman,  are  marks 
of  delicate  attention,  besides  being  aids  in  the  decoration  of 
the  table. 

THE  DINNER. 

If  raw  oysters  enter  into  the  bill  of  fare,  they  must  be 
the  first  course.  If  they  are  omitted,  the  soup  is  the  first. 

Soup  as  a  first  course  is  sometimes  placed  at  each  plate 
before  the  meal  is  announced.  If  it  is  so  served,  the  soup- 
plates  should  be  well  heated.  It  seems  desirable  for  some 
reasons  to  serve  it  in  this  manner.  Especially  with  an  un- 
trained servant,  danger  of  spilling  is  avoided,  which  is  worth 
considering  in  a  company  of  richly-dressed  ladies.  If  served 
at  the  table,  it  is  proper  for  either  host  or  hostess  to  offici- 
ate. The  tureen  and  pile  of  plates  are  placed  in  front  and 
but  a  single  ladle-full  dipped  into  each  plate,  passed  to  an  at- 
tendant who  serves  first  the  lady  of  honor  then  all  the  other 
ladies,  followed  by  the  gentleman  ^f  honor  and  the  other 
gentlemen.  The  plate  must  be  handed  at  the  left  on  a 
salver — (but  water  should  always  be  poured  at  the  right). 
All  should  take  soup,  even  if  they  eat  but  little.  As  soon 
as  each  one  has  finished,  the  plate  should  be  removed.  The 
hostess  must  eat  (or  appear  to  eat)  until  each  guest  has 
finished.  When  all  are  through  and  the  tureen  is  removed, 


< 387 

Th«  Ttbl«.  DINNER  ETIQUET."  Hints  to  the  Invited. 

the  next  course  is  brought  on.  If  it  is  fish,  do  not  serve 
more  than  one  vegetable  with  it.,  Bread  is.  passed  with  each 
course  after  soup. 

Next  follows  the  roast  of  meat  or  fowls.  It  is  in  good 
taste  for  a  sirloin  with  proper  accompaniments  of  vegetables, 
pickles,  jelly,  etc.,  to  constitute  the  substantial  part  of  the 
meal  without  any  fowls.  Or,  if  preferred,  a  nice  turkey 
with  the  usual  accompaniments  may  be  served  instead,  to 
be  followed  by  the  pastry.  Jelly  is  not  served  in  sauce- 
dishes,  but  is  put  upon  the  dinner-plate,  either  by  the  host 
or  by  each  gentleman  for  himself  and  the  lady  at  his  side. 
Do  not  help  too  abundantly.  It  is  in  very  bad  taste.  Do 
not  urge  a  second  supply  of  the  same  dish. 

If  finger-bowls  are  used,  one  should  be  placed  at  the  left 
of  each  plate.  It  should  contain  luke-warm  water  and  a 
slice  of  lemon,  or  a  geranium  leaf,  or  any  slight  flavoring  of 
rose,  verbena,  or  anything  else.  Colored  finger-bowls  are 
prettier  than  white.  They  may  be  put  in  place  before  the 
guests  are  seated,  or  brought  on  with  the  dessert. 

After  the  substantial  part  of  the  meal  is  removed,  it  is 
optional  whether  or  not  to  change  the  table  linen. 

The  dishes  pertaining  to  each  course  must  all  be  removed, 
and  others  substituted  for  the  next  course. 

Dessert-cloths  and  napkins  can  be  procured,  and  are  ex- 
ceedingly pretty  and  in  good  taste. 

The  pudding  and  pastry  is  next  served.  Coffee  may  be 
served  with  this,  or  at  the  last.  When  coffee  is  served,  the 
cream  and  sugar — as  desired — should  be  put  into  the  cups 
first,  and  the  hostess  should  always  pour  it. 

Fruit  comes  after  the  pastry,  and  confectionery  and  ices 
follow.  Fruit-cloths  and  napkins  are  used  optionally.  They 
are  always  colored. 

When  the  meal  is  finished,  the  hostess  rises  and  the 
others  follow  her  example.  The  gentlemen  usually  repair 
to  the  smoking-room,  while  the  ladies  proceed  directly  to 
the  parlors,  preceded  by  the  eldest,  for  a  social  chat.  It  is 
proper  to  depart  in  an  hour  after  the  dinner  is  over. 

HINTS  TO  THE  INVITED. 

Wear  gloves  to  the  table,  and  remove  them  when  seated. 

A  gentlemen  must  see  that  the  lady  whom  he  escorted  is 
helped  to  whatever  she  wishes,  but  should  not  offer  to  help 
others  who  have  escorts. 

Eat  raw  oysters  with  a  fork. 


388 __ 

Hinte.  DINNER  ETIQUET.  Hints. 

Eat  soup  from  the  side  of  a  spoon,  and  silently.  Do  not 
tip  the  plate  for  the  last  spoonful. 

Eat  fish  with  a  fork. 

Do  not  mix  your  food  on  the  plate. 

Eat  cheese  with  a  fork.     Macaroni  also. 

Eat  game  and  fowl  with  a  fork.  Cut  the  meat  from  the 
bones  with  a  knife,  but  do  not  carry  a  bone  to  the  mouth 
at  a  dinner  party. 

Do  not  use  your  own  knife  and  fork  for  purposes  for  which 
other  knives  and  forks  are  provided. 

Do  not  use  the  edge  of  the  table-cloth  for  a  napkin. 

Do  not  eat  noisily. 

Do  not  soil  the  table-cloth  by  setting  a  dripping  cup  of 
tea  or  coffee  on  it. 

Drink  tea  or  coffee  from  the  cup  and  not  from  the 
saucer. 

Do  not  soil  the  cloth  by  laying  the  knife  and  fork  on  it, 
instead  of  on  the  plate. 

Do  not  partake  too  freely  of  any  delicacy. 

Do  not  speak  in  boisterous  tones  at  the  table. 

Do  not  use  a  handkerchief  if  it  can  possibly  be  avoided. 
If  obliged  to  cough,  turn  the  head  and  hide  the  mouth  with 
the  napkin. 

Do  not  speak  of  disagreeable  subjects  or  loathsome  ob- 
jects at  the  table. 

Do  not  stir  the  tea  or  coffee  noisily,  or  so  as  to  spill  it. 

Do  not,  by  word  or  manner,  take  exceptions  to  any  arti- 
cle of  food  set  before  you.  If  anything  disagreeable  is  found 
in  your  food,  put  it  aside  quietly  and  without  remark. 

When  a  dish  is  particularly  inviting,  it  may  be  spoken  of 
in  praise  to  the  hostess. 

Eat  slowly. 

Pay  no  attention  to  accidents* 

Do  not  lean  the  elbows  on  the  table,  or  tip  the  chair. 

To  use  the  finger-bowl,  dip  the  fingers  in  lightly  and  wipe 
them  on  the  napkin. 
'  Never  pick  the  teeth  at  the  table. 

Do  not  fold  the  napkin  when  done  with  it  at  a  dinner 
party. 

When  taking  leave  after  the  close  of  the  dinner,  thank 
the  hostess  for  the  enjoyment  conferred  upon  you. 


•  389 

Sunday.  BILLS  OF  FARE.  Monday. 

(BILLS  OF  F^fRE. 

"  No  useless  dish  our  table  crowds  ; 

Harmoniously  ranged  and  consonantly  just, 
As  in  a  concert  instruments  resound, 
Our  ordered  dishes  in  their  courses  chime. " 

I  offer  here  a  few  suggestions  as  helps  to  the  practical 
housewife  in  her  everyday  cooking.  If  large  lunch,  dinner, 
or  tea  parties  are  given  in  the  city,  a  caterer  may  be  em- 
ployed. If  given  in  the  country,  the  articles  obtainable  at 
the  time  of  year  must  enter  into  the  bill  of  fare. 

SUGGESTIONS    FOR   A   BILL   OF   FARE   IN   A   PRIVATE   FAMILY    FOR     ONE     WEEK. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Oatmeal  Mush.    Codfish  Balls.    Saratoga  Potatoes.    Waffles. 
Maple  Syrup.     Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Roast  Beef  with  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

Potatoes,  Celery,  Canned  Vegetables,  and  Pickles. 

Blanc-Mange.     Apple  Pie.     Coffee. 

Supper. 

Thin  Bread  and  Butter.     Cold  Baked  Beans.     Sauce. 
Cake.     Tea. 

MONDA  Y. 

Breakfast. 

Cracked  Wheat  and  Milk.  Ragout  of  Cold  Roast  Beef. 

Baked  Eggs.     Baked  Potatoes.     Coffee  or  Chocolate. 

Dinner. 

Boiled  Dinner.         Suet  Pudding. 

Supper. 

Mush  and  Milk.     Buttered  Toast.     Cheese.     Sauce. 
Cake.       Tea. 


39Q 

Tuesday.  BILLS   OF    FARE.  Thursday. 

TUESDA  Y. 

Breakfast. 

Fried  Mush.     Maple  Syrup.      Corned  Beef  Hash. 
Hot  Rolls.     Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Roast  Pork.     Fried  Apples.     Boiled  Potatoes.     Tomatoes. 

Lemon   Pie. 

Supper. 

Potato  Salad.     Cold   Roast     Pork.     Milk   Toast. 
Jelly   Cake.     Jam.     Tea. 

WEDNESDA  Y. 

Breakfast. 

Oatmeal  Mush.      Codfish  Stew.     Baked  Potatoes.     Muffins. 
Coffee  or   Chocolate. 

Dinner. 

Boiled  Mutton.     Boiled  Rice.     Mashed  Potatoes.     Turnips. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. 
(Leave  enough  Potatoes  for  Breakfast.) 

Supper. 

Cold    Mutton,    garnished   with   Lemon.         Russian  Salad, 
Hot  Biscuit.     Lemon  Butter.     Gingerbread.     Tea. 

THURSDA  Y. 

Breakfast. 

Rice  Croquettes.     Broiled  Beefsteak.     Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 
Laplanders.     Coffee  or  Chocolate. 

Dinner. 

Calves'  Liver  Larded.     Potatoes.      Cold  Slaw.     Corn. 
Mince  Pie.     Cheese. 

Supper. 

Chipped  Beef.     Sweet  Pickles.     Buttered  Toast. 
Preserves  and  Cake.     Tea. 


39*. 

Saturday.  BILLS  OF  FARE.  Another  Wwk. 

FRIDA  Y. 

Breakfast. 

Hominy.    Egg  Omelet.    Saratoga  Potatoes.    Graham  Gems. 
Doughnuts.     Coffee  or  Chocolate. 

Dinner. 

Fish  Baked,  Boiled,  or  Fried.     Potatoes.     Cauliflower. 
Tomatoes.     Rice  Pudding. 

Supper. 

Sardines  with  slices  of  Lemon.     Banana  or  other  Fritters. 

Bread  and  Butter.     Floating  Island. 

Spogge  Cake.     Tea. 

SA  TURD  A  Y. 

Breakfast. 

Macaroni.     Mutton  Chops.     Potatoes  a  la  creme. 
Griddle  Cakes.     Coffee  or  Chocolate. 

Dinner. 

Oysters  or   Fowls.     Seasonable   Vegetables.     Berry  Pie. 

Supper. 

Boston  Baked  Beans  and  Brown  Bread.     Lettuce. 

Welsh  Rarebit.     Cranberry  Sauce. 

Cake.     Tea. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  BREAKFASTS  FOR  ANOTHER  WEEK. 

ist. — Veal  Cutlets.     Johnny  Cake. 
2nd. — Liver  and  Bacon.     Wheat  Cakes. 
3rd. — Scrambled  eggs.     Graham  Muffins. 
4th. — Tenderloins.     Corn-Meal  Rolls. 
5th. — Salt  Mackerel.     Bread  Pancakes. 
6th. — Ham  and  Eggs.     Popovers. 
7th. — Fried  Chicken.     Corn  Cakes. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  DINNERS  FOR  ANOTHER  WEEK. 
1st. — Roast  Turkey.     Pumpkin  Pie. 
2nd. — Boiled  Ham.     Roll  Pudding. 


392  _  •_. 

Suggestions.  CHILDREN'S   PARTY.  Suggestions. 

3rd.—  Veal  Pot-Pie.     Cranberry  Pie. 

4th.  —  Beef  a  la  mode.     Queen  of  Puddings. 

5th.—  Parsnip  Stew.     Pie-Plant  Pie. 

6th.  —  Fish.     Boiled  Indian  Pudding. 

7th,—  Beef  Soup  with  Vegetables.     Snow  Balls. 


SUGGESTIONS  FO®.  CHILDREN'S 


Rolled  Sandwiches,  Panned  Oysters,  Biscuits. 

Cream  Puffs,       Orange  Tarts,        Jelly  Tarts, 
Small  Pickles,        Vanities,        Varieties,         Lady  Fingers, 

Nun's  Sighs,       Mother's  Love-Knots,       Whistles, 
Rissoles,       Pyramid  Paste,       Jelly  Roll,       Birthday  Cake, 

Canary  Cake,         Eugenia  Cake,       Frosted  Patty-Pans, 
Variety  Cake,          Kisses,  Comfits,  Jelly  in  Molds, 

Frosted  Fruits,          Raisins,         Popcorn  Balls, 
Fruits,      Nuts,       Confectionery,      Sherbets,        Water  Ices, 
Ice  Cream  in  Molds,         Lemonade,          Chocolate. 

Also  make  a  pyramid  cake  of  four  loaves,  baked  in  a 
two-quart,  three-pint,  and  a  pint  basin  and  a  muffin-ring, 
all  put  together  and  heavily  frosted. 

Give  each  little  guest  a  tiny  lace  bag  of  confectionery  tied 
with  a  ribbon.  Either  make  the  bag  square,  or  in  the 
shape  of  a  stocking.  If  you  have  no  lace,  use  mosquito 
netting,  and  tie  it  with  bright  worsted. 

Festoons  of  popcorn  are  pleasing,  and  a  tiny  bouquet  for 
each  one  is  just  the  thing.  The  bouquet  should  be  placed 
by  the  plate  at  table. 


393 

Remarks.  CANDY-  MAKING.  Excelsior. 


=  MAKING. 


It  is  now  quite  the  thing  to  make  candy  at  home.  The 
home-made  is  much  more  wholesome  for  the  little  folks 
than  the  cheap,  highly-colored  confectionery  retailed  so 
largely.  Candy-making  is  a  pleasant  pastime  for  children, 
and  they  will  become  quite  expert  at  it  in  a  surprisingly 
short  time. 

In  boiling  sugar  for  candy  it  is  recommended  to  keep  the 
top  of  the  vessel  or  basin  partly  covered,  after  it  commences 
to  boil.  The  steam  which  rises  and  is  forced  back  by  the 
cover  prevents  the  formation  of  crystals.  Any  kitchen 
sauce-pan  will  answer  for  making  candy.  In  my  own  family, 
we  usually  take  a  bright  tin  3-pint  basin  for  sugar  candies. 

For  molasses  candy,  that  is  generally  made  in  larger 
quantities,  a  deep  kettle  is  the  best. 

To  prevent  graining,  add  a  little  acid  of  any  sort,  4  or  5 
drops  of  lemon  juice,  or  a  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  or  vin- 
egar. But  if  too  much  acid  is  used,  it  will  also  grain  it, 
neither  can  it  be  boiled  to  "caramel." 

To  pull  candy,  rub  some  fresh  butter  or  lard  on  the 
hands  to  prevent  sticking.  If  forming  into  sticks,  it  is  bet- 
ter to  flour  the  hands  slightly.  Be  careful  not  to  use  enough 
flour  to  taste  in  the  candy. 

EXCELSIOR  CREAM  CANDY. 

Mabel  Bower,  St.  Joseph,  Mo. 

One  pound  C  sugar,  or  pulverized  sugar,  I  cup  water. 
Stir  on  the  stove  till  dissolved.  Then  let  cook  until  a  little 
dropped  in  cold  water  will  snap.  When  done  it  will  boil  in 
little  bubbles.  Do  not  stir  it  at  all.  When  ready,  turn  out 
on  buttered  plates  or  tins,  but  do  not  scrape  the  dish.  Give 
the  scrapings  to  the  children.  Set  the  candy  over  a  pail  of 
cold  water  or  in  a  cool  place,  so  it  can  be  handled  in  about 
5  minutes.  The  edges  will  cool  first.  Turn  them  into  the 
center  and  take  up  in  your  hands  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to 
hold.  Keep  the  fingers  smooth  with  fresh  lard  or  butter. 
Pull  quickly,  and  with  the  fingers  —  not  with  the  hands. 
When  it  is  white  and  begins  to  get  brittle,  stretch  on  a 
mixing-board  and  cut  in  lengths.  If  any  essence  is  de- 
sired, put  in  as  it  is  cooling.  Vanilla  is  best.  If  it  turns  to 
sugar  before  you  can  pull  it,  cook  it  over  again,  adding  water 


394 

Christmas.  CANDY-MAKING.  Caramels. 

to  it  Vinegar  spoils  it.  Lemon  juice  is  good,  but  gives  it 
a  yellow  tinge.  If  you  wish  a  creamy  candy,  cook  until  it 
threads  in  water  ;  then  add  a  teaspoon  vanilla  and  pull  well. 
Set  in  a  cool  place  for  a  day  or  two.  It  will  melt  in  your 
mouth. 

CHRISTMAS  CANDY. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar  boiled  in  ^  cup  water  ;  add  J 
teaspoon  powdered  gum  arabic  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons 
vinegar.  Let  boil  rapidly  over  a  hot  fire.  Do  not  stir. 
Dip  some  up  in  a  teaspoon  and  hold  the  spoon  in  a  glass 
of  cold  water.  If  it  is  brittle  and  will  snap  ofif,  pour  out  of 
the  kettle  immediately  onto  a  greased  platter.  Do  not  put 
the  scrapings  in.  In  5  minutes  it  will  be  cool  enough  to 
pull  and  work  into  twists  or  braids. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

Miss  Carrie  G.  Smith,  Chicago. 

One  pint  molasses,  I  cup  sugar.  Boil  and  stir  every  min- 
ute. When  partly  cooked,  put  in  ^  teaspoon  butter.  When 
it  hardens  in  cold  water,  it  is  done.  Put  in  \  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  with  the  butter,  and  just  before  you  turn  it 
out,  put  in  a  scant  teaspoon  of  soda.  Walnut,  hickory-nut, 
or  hazel-nut  meats  may  be  added  to  this  candy. 

OLD-FASHIONED  MOLASSES  CANDY. 

One  quart  molasses  and  I  tablespoon  of  butter.  Boil  to- 
gether till  it  will  snap  in  water.  Stir  in  a  pinch  of  soda  to 
whiten  it.  Pour  on  buttered  dishes  and  when  cool  enough 
to  handle  pull  until  white. 

MAPLE  CARAMELS. 

One  pound  maple  sugar.  Melt  in  a  cup  of  sweet  milk 
and  i  tablespoon  butter.  Cook  till  almost  brittle  in  cold 
water.  Turn  on  to  a  buttered  plate.  Mark  in  squares, 
when  cool  enough. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

Aunt  Ann  Owens. 

One  coffee-cup  rich  cream,  i  coffee-cup  brown  sugar, 
I  coffee  cup  molasses.  Piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Boil  20  minutes  then  add  7  even  tablespoons  grated  choco- 
late and  boil  till  done.  Pour  on  a  buttered  flat  dish  and 
mark  into  squares  as  soon  as  cool  enough. 


J595 

Chocolate.  CANDY-MAKING,  Cwoanut 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

Leslie  Bower,  St.  Joe,  Mo. 

One  pound  C  sugar,  2  squares  chocolate,  I  teaspoon 
butter,  I  cup  water.  Cook  until  it  snaps  in  water,  then  turn 
on  greased  tins  or  patty-pans,  in  thin  cakes. 

CHOCOLATE  CANDY. 

Half  cake  chocolate  grated,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  \  cup 
milk.  Put  the  chocolate  in  a  plate  on  a  kettle  of  hot  water 
to  melt.  Mix  the  sugar  with  it.  Put  the  milk  in  a  3-pint 
or  other  convenient  vessel  to  boil,  watch  it  carefully  to  pre- 
vent burning.  As  soon  as  it  boils  pour  in  the  mixture  and 
let  cook  12  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Pour  into  buttered 
tins  or  plates  to  cool,  and  mark  into  squares  as  it  hardens. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  DROPS. 

One  pint  granulated  sugar,  J  cup  water,  I  scant  teaspoon 
butter,  |  cup  milk,  I  teaspoon  vanilla,  3  squares  chocolate. 
Boil  the  sugar,  milk,  water,  and  butter  for  20  minutes.  Add 
the  vanilla  last.  Remove  from  the  stove  and  stir  pretty 
constantly  until  cool  enough  to  handle.  Grate  the  chocolate 
and  put  in  a  dish  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  to  melt.  Form 
the  candy  into  little  balls  the  size  of  a  thimble.  When  cold, 
roll  them  in  the  melted  chocolate.  Put  on  a  greased  plate 
or  paper  to  harden. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  CANDY. 

One  cup  sugar,  I  cup  molasses,  I  cup  milk  ;  butter  size  of 
an  egg,  boil  25  minutes,  but  do  not  stir  only  to  keep  from 
burning  ;  just  before  taking  up,  add  a  pinch  of  soda  and  2 
grated  squares  of  chocolate.  Try  in  water,  and  when  brittle, 
it  is  done  ;  then  turn  into  a  buttered  pan  and  when  the 
candy  is  cool  mark  it  off  into  squares. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CANDY. 

Three  cups  white  sugar,  scant  half  cup  water,  \  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  Boil  10  minutes,  then  add  I  cup  grated 
fresh  cocoanut  (or  desiccated  if  you  can  not  get  the  fresh). 
Beat  well  together  and  drop  on  white  paper  by  the  spoonful. 

CREAM  TAFFY. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  £  cup  water,  I  teaspoon  vinegar, 
I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  I  tablespoon  butter.  Boil  20 


396 __ 

Almond.  CANDY-MAKING.  Peanut. 

minutes  in  3  pint  basin  or  other  small  vessel,  stirring  care- 
fully to  prevent  burning.     Then  pull. 

ALMOND  TAFFY. 

Put  4  tablespoons  butter  into  a  saucepan.  When  it  is 
melted  add  I  pound  of  sugar.  Let  boil  20  minutes,  then 
stir  in  2  ounces  of  blanched  almonds  that  have  been  divided 
and  dried  in  a  slow  heat.  Let  boil  together  until  it  crackles 
in  cold  water. 

COCOANUT    TAFFY. 

Mrs.  E.  E.  Bower,  St  Joseph,  Mo. 

One  large  cocoanut.  Pare  off  the  brown  skin  and  slice 
the  meat  thin  ;  2  pounds  C  sugar  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  water. 
When  the  syrup  is  hot,  pour  in  the  meat  and  cook  until  the 
syrup  will  snap  in  cold  water.  Then  turn  on  a  deep  pie- 
tin  to  cool.  Don't  put  in  the  scrapings,  as  it  grains. 

LEMON  TAFFY. 

Two  cups  sugar,  I  cup  boiling  water,  J  cup  butter,  \  cup 
vinegar.  Flavor  with  lemon.  When  cooked  sufficiently, 
pour  it  on  buttered  plates  to  cool. 

VINEGAR   CANDY. 

Two  cups  sugar,  |  cup  vinegar,  I  teaspoon  butter,  I  tea- 
spoon lemon  extract.  After  it  commences  to  boil  let  boil  15 
minutes,  and  pour  out  on  2  greased  plates.  When  partly 
cool,  pull  till  white. 

SNOW  CANDY. 

Take  I  quart  granulated  sugar,  I  pint  water,  2  tablespoons 
vinegar  ;  boil,  but  do  not  stir  it  ;  you  can  tell  when  it  is 
done  by  trying  in  cold  water.  Pull  it  as  if  it  were  molasses 
candy  ;  have  a  dish  near  by  with  some  vanilla  in,  and  work 
in  enough  to  flavor  it  as  you  pull ;  put  it  in  a  cold  room,  and 
the  next  day  you  will  have  delicious  candy. 

BUTTER    SCOTCH. 

Four  cups  brown  sugar,  2  cups  butter,  2  tablespoons  water, 
same  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  soda.  Boil  \  hour.  Drop  a 
little  in  water.  If  crisp,  it  is  done. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

Two  cups  sugar,  2\  cups  New  Orleans  molasses,  I  cup 
water.  Butter  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in 


397 

Anabel's  CANDY-MAKING.  Macaroons. 

water.     Add  i\   teaspoons  soda  while  on  the  stove  and  3 
quarts  roasted  peanuts,  halved. 

ANABEL'S   CANDY. 

Anabel  Toncray,  Tollesboro,  Kentucky. 

Three  cups  sugar,  ij  cups  sweet  milk.  Boil  until  it  will 
harden  in  cold  water.  Then  pour  on  greased  plates  and 
cut  in  sticks.  It  will  cook  in  about  30  minutes. 

FRUIT  CANDY. 

A  delicious  fruit  candy  is  made  by  adding  chopped  raisins 
and  figs  to  a  syrup  made  by  stewing  2  pounds  sugar  with 
the  juice  of  2  lemons,  or,  if  lemons  are  not  at  hand,  with  a 
cup  of  vinegar  flavored  with  essence  of  lemon.  Dried  cher- 
ries and  any  firm  preserves  may  be  used  instead  of  raisins 
or  figs. 

COCOANUT  MACAROONS. 

Two  cups  grated  cocoanut,  I  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Mix  and  bake  on  a 
buttered  paper  in  a  quick  oven. 

HICKORY-NUT  MACAROONS. 

One  cup  hickory-nut  meats,  pounded  to  a  paste,  I  cup 
sugar,  i\  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour.  Bake  on  a  greased 
paper  ;  put  very  little  in  a  place. 

LEMON  MACAROONS. 

One  pound  powdered  sugar,  4  eggs,  whipped  very  light 
and  long;  juice  of  3  lemons  and  peel  of  I  ;  I  heaping  cup 
prepared  flour;  £  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Butter  your  hands 
lightly  ;  take  up  small  lumps  of  the  mixture  ;  make  into 
balls  about  as  large  as  a  walnut,  and  lay  them  upon  a  sheet 
of  buttered  paper,  more  than  two  inches  apart.  Bake  in  a 
brisk  oven. 

SUGAR  KISSES. 

Whites  of  5  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  I  pound  pul- 
verized sugar,  and  I  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Drop  on 
white  paper  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

HOREHOUND  CANDY. 

Make  a  strong  tea  of  the  herb  and  dissolve  the  sugar  in  it 
and  proceed  as  in  other  candies.  Strain  the  tea  through  a 
fine  muslin  before  adding  the  sugar. 


398   _ 

Rsh.  CARVING.  Turkey. 

POPCORN  BALLS. 

Take  a  cup  of  sugar,  put  in  a  basin  with  just  water  to  dis- 
solve it,  and  Haifa  teaspoon  of  butter.  Boil  until  it  com- 
mences to  brown  in  the  center,  then  pour  over  the  freshly 
popped  corn,  stir,  press  into  balls  as  hot  as  can  be  handled. 
Rub  the  hands  lightly  with  butter. 


The  seat  of  a  carver  should  be  higher  than  the  other  seats 
at  the  table.  He  must  himself  determine  the  height  most 
convenient  for  his  own  use.  The  platter  must  be  within  easy 
reach.  A  knife,  well  sharpened  and  easy  to  handle,  is  an  ab- 
solute necessity.  With  these  requisites  and  a  careful  atten- 
tion to  details,  a  novice  may  become  an  expert  after  a  few 
trials.  The  person  at  the  head  of  the  table  should  never, 
under  any  circumstances,  use  his  own  individual  knife  and 
fork  in  helping  others. 


FISH. 

In  cutting,  be  careful  not  to  break  the  flakes.  A  fish 
trowel  is  almost  indispensable  in  serving  the  larger  varieties. 
Carry  the  trowel  under  the  meat  over  the  back-bone,  so  that 
the  meat  may  be  raised  from  the  bone.  The  choicest  part 
is  next  to  the  head,  and  deteriorates,  towards  the  tail.  The 
part  next  to  the  bone  in  large  fish  is  not  desirable.  Divide 
the  fish  both  crosswise  and  lengthwise  in  pieces  to  suit  the 
number  to  be  served.  The  roe  is  esteemed  a  delicacy,  and  if 
on  the  ^platter,  a  morsel  must  be  served  to  each  person. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

In  order  to  serve  both  the  light  and  dark  meat,  cut  off 
the  wing,  leg,  and  second  joint  nearest  you.  Then  slice 


399 


Roast  of   Beef. 


CARVING. 


Haunch  of   Mutton. 


down  in  very  thin  slices.  A  good  carver  will  find  slices  of 
breast  for  a  large  number  of  people,  while  a  bad  one  will 
serve  comparatively  few  with  choice  pieces.  Cut  from 


either  side,  removing  the  opposite  wing  and  leg,  if  necessary. 
Everyone  should  be  helped  to  the  dressing  with  the  meat. 


FILLET  OF  VEAL. 

Cut  cross  wise  off  the  top  in  smooth,  thin  slices, 
each  person  with  some  of  the  dressing  and  fat. 


Serve 


ROAST  OF  BEEF. 

With  a  well-sharpened  knife,  cut  across  the  grain  in  thin 
slices,  clear  to  the  bone.  Those  who  prefer  it  well  done,  will 
be  served  from  near  the  outside;  while  those  wishing  it  rare, 
will  be  served  from  the  inside. 

If  the  bone  has  been  removed  by  the  butcher,  and  the 
roast  rolled,  it  will  look  almost  precisely  like  the  fillet  of  veal 
in  the  cut,  and  must  be  sliced  horizontally  in  thin  slices. 


HAUNCH  OF  MUTTON. 

Make  a  deep  cut  to  the  bone  across  the  knuckle  end  of  the 
joint.     Then  turn  the  platter  a  trifle,  put  the  point  of  the 


400 

Roast  Pig 


CARVING. 


How  to  Cut  a  Cake. 


knife  midway  of  the  cut  just  made,  and  cut  straight  and 
deep  toward  the  opposite  end  of  the  haunch.  It  should  then 
be  carved  in  even  slices  along  the  whole  length  on  the  right 
and  left. 


ROAST  LEG  OF  PORK. 

Slice  down  to  the  bone  in  even  slices — not  too  thin — as 
indicated  by  the  scores  in  the  rind.  Commence  at  the  cen- 
ter and  serve  from  either  side. 


ROAST  PIG, 

Separate  a  shoulder  from  the  carcass  on  one  side,  and  then 
separate  the  leg  similarly.  The  ribs  are  considered  choice. 
Divide  them  conveniently,  and  serve  one  to  each  person, 
with  plenty  of  the  stuffing.  The  leg  is  not  so  rich  as  the 
ribs,  and  may  be  preferred  by  some.  Pieces  may  also  be  cut 
from  the  joints. 


How  TO  CUT  A  CAKE. 

First  make  a  round  hole  in  the  center,  an  inch  in  diameter, 
with  a  tin  tube  or  a  sharp-pointed  knife.  Then  cut  through 
to  the  edge  and  serve  in  thin  slices. 


THE  HOUSEHOLD. 


INVALID   COOKERY.  NURSERY.  REMEDIES. 

CARE  OF  BEDS.          CARE  OF  LAMPS.          LAUNDRY.          DYES. 


COOKERY. 


ET  the  kitchen  utensils  used  for  preparing  dishes 
for  invalids  be  scrupulously  clean.  If  this  is 
neglected,  a  disagreeable  flavor  may  be  im- 
parted, which  will  disgust  the  patient,  and 
lead  to  a  refusal  to  take  any  nourishment  what- 
ever. Never  cook  a  large  quantity  of  any  one 
thing.  A  variety  is  necessary  to  tempt  the 
appetite.  I  knew  of  one  case  in  which  some  soup  was  car- 
ried to  the  bedside  of  a  sick  lady  iii  a  two-quart  tin-basin. 
The  lady  was  fastidious,  and,  of  course,  that  meal  was 
spoiled.  Gruel  served  in  a  glass  is  more  appetizing  than  if 
served  in  a  cup  or  basin. 

Always  have  some  dainty  dish  in  readiness.  If  a  patient 
is  required  to  wait  for  food,  he  loses  the  desire  to  eat. 

Have  a  clean  napkin  spread  on  a  tray,  and  let  the  service 
be  as  bright  as  possible.  If  a  patient  cannot  eat  what  is 
offered,  do  not  leave  it  by  him  in  hopes  that  he  may  eat 
it,  but  take  it  right  away  and  after  a  while  bring  it  again  ;  or, 
perhaps,  make  some  little  change  in  the  arrangement  of  it. 
Do  not  serve  beef  tea  or  broth  with  any  fat  on  the  top. 
After  either  is  made,  let  it  cool,  when  the  fat  may  be  re- 
moved entirely. 

Be  very  particular  about  the  quality  of  the  food  placed 
before  an  invalid.  Milk  or  soup  that  is  beginning  to  sour, 
a  stale  egg,  or  underdone  vegetables,  should  never  be 
brought  into  a  sick  room. 

Do  not  spill  the  contents  of  the  cup  into  the  saucer. 
When  I  have  been  weak  and  sick,  I  have  had  my  break- 
fast entirely  spoiled  by  a  cup  of  coffee  brought  to  me  partly 
spilled  into  the  saucer. 

Provide  plenty  of  clean  napkins  and  towels  for  use.    These 
are  necessary  to  protect  both  the  bedding  and  the  clothing 
of  the  patient. 
*49 


402 

Apple  Water.  INVALID  COOKERY.  Mulled  Buttermilk. 

APPLE  WATER. 

Roast  4  nice,  smooth,  tart  apples  carefully,  preserving  all 
the  juice.  Put  them  into  a  pitcher  and  pour  on  a  quart  of 
boiling  water.  Let  cool,  and  it  is  a  refreshing  drink  for  an 
invalid.  May  be  sweetened  or  flavored  if  liked. 

TAMARIND  WATER. 

One  tumbler  tamarinds,  I  pint  cold  water.  Turn  the 
water  over  the  tamarinds,  and  let  stand  an  hour  ;  strain  be- 
fore using.  Currant  jelly  or  cranberry  jelly  can  be  used 
similarly. 

TOAST  WATER. 

Toast  2  slices  of  stale  bread,  on  both  sides,  a  rich  brown  ; 
cut  in  pieces,  and  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Physicians 
may  order  wine  or  other  stimulant  added  for  an  invalid. 

APPLE  DRINK. 

Bake  some  crab-apples  thoroughly.  Put  in  a  glass, 
sweeten,  and  pour  water  over  to  cover  them. 

HOP  TEA. 

Simmer  a  tablespoon  of  hops  in  a  pint  of  water.  When  it 
savors  strongly  of  the  hops,  strain  and  add  white  sugar,  a 
teaspoon  at  a  time,  to  suit  the  taste. 

CRUST  COFFEE. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  pieces  of  bread,  toasted  very 
brown.  Strain  for  use,  and  add  cream  and  sugar. 

REFRESHING  DRINK  FOR  INVALIDS. 

One  pound  ground  flax-seed  and  2  lemons,  boiled  together 
in  4  quarts  water.  Sweeten  to  taste  after  it  cools.  Especi- 
ally good  for  persons  with  weak  lungs. 

MILK  PUNCH. 

One  cup  milk  sweetened,  2  tablespoons  brandy  stirred 
in.  Give  it  with  ice.  Grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

MULLED  BUTTERMILK. 

Make  a  thickening  of  I  tablespoon  flour  and  cold  butter- 
milk, and  stir  into  a  pint  of  boiling  buttermilk.  Stir  con- 
stantly after  putting  it  on  the  stove.  Add  a  little  allspice, 
and  sweeten  to  the  taste,  Pour  over  pieces  of  toast, 


403 

Alum  Whey.  INVALID  COOKERY.  Lime-Water  and  Mlik. 

ALUM  WHEY. 

Half  ounce  powdered  alum.  Mix  with  i  pint  sweet  milk. 
Strain  and  add  nutmeg  and  sugar. 

BUTTERMILK  WHEY. 

Boil  a  pint  of  fresh  buttermilk.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  a 
teaspoon  lump  sugar,  and  nutmeg,  if  liked.  Pour  off,  and 
sweeten  to  taste. 

RENNET  WHEY. 

One  quart  milk,  almost  boiling,  2  tablespoons  prepared 
rennet,  or  a  piece  of  rennet  which  has  been  soaked  in  water. 
Sugar  to  taste.  Stir  the  rennet  into-the  hot  milk  ;  let  stand 
until  cool,  and  strain. 

WINE  WHEY. 

Boil  I  pint  milk,  add  J  cup  of  acid  wine  ;  let  boil  up. 
Then  set  aside  till  the  curd  settles.  Pour  off,  and  sweeten 
the  whey  with  loaf  sugar  to  taste. 

BEATEN  EGG. 

Beat  a  fresh  egg  very  light,  add  a  little  sugar,  and  stir 
into  a  tumbler  of  milk. 

EGG  LEMONADE. 

Beat  the  white  of  i  fresh  egg,  juice  of  I  lemon  and  a  tea- 
spoon sugar  into  a  glass  of  water.  A  pleasant  and  nourish- 
ing drink  in  low  fevers,  dysentery,  inflammation  of  stomach, 
pneumonia,  etc. 

FLAXSEED  LEMONADE. 

Three  tablespoons  whole  flaxseed  to  I  quart  boiling  water  ; 
let  stand  until  very  thick  ;  then  strain  over  the  juice  of  I 
lemon  and  powdered  gum  arabic  ;  sweeten  to  taste. 

BAKED  MILK. 

Put  ^  gallon  milk  in  ajar  and  tie  down  with  writing  paper. 
Let  stand  in  a  moderate  oven  8  or  10  hours.  It  will  then  be 
like  cream,  and  is  good  for  consumptives  and  invalids 
generally. 

LIME-WATER  AND  MILK. 

One  wine-glass  lime  water,  mixed  with  i  goblet  milk. 
Can  be  retained  in  the  stomach  when  it  rejects  everything 
else.  It  may  be  taken  as  often  as  desired. 


404 

Roasted  Potatoes  INVALID  COOKERY.  Indian  Meal  Gruel. 

ROASTED  POTATOES. 

Select  large  potatoes,  and  roast  them  in  hot  ashes.  When 
done,  press  firmly  in  a  cloth  with  the  hand  ;  then  take  the 
inside  out  on  a  plate  and  season  lightly  with  butter. 

BROILED  CHICKEN  OR  QUAIL. 

Use  the  breast,  and  broil  over  hot  coals,  or  on  a  wire- 
broiler,  on  both  sides.  Season  lightly  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Serve  on  a  dainty  plate,  with  a  dainty  piece  of 
toast  and  jelly. 

ARROWROOT  JELLY. 

Mix  3  tablespoons  arrowroot  with  water  or  milk  until  per- 
fectly smooth  ;  boil  the  peel  of  I  lemon  in  a  pint  of  water 
until  reduced  one-half ;  take  out  the  peel  and  pour  in  the 
dissolved  arrowroot  ;  sweeten  it,  and  boil  5  minutes. 

CHICKEN  JELLY. 

Cut  a  large  chicken  into  very  small  pieces,  break  the 
bones,  put  into  a  stone  jar,  water-tight  ;  set  the  jar  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water  and  boil  3  hours  ;  strain  off  the  liquid 
and  put  in  a  cold  place.  Season  with  loaf  sugar,  salt,  pepper, 
mace,  and  lemon-juice. 

RICE  JELLY. 

Rice,  ^  pound  ;  loaf  sugar,  J  pound  ;  water  sufficient  to 
cover  it,  spice  or  lemon  peel.  Boil  the  rice  until  dissolved  ; 
strain  and  season  ;  set  away  until  cold. 

SAGO  JELLY. 

One  cup  sago,  I  quart  water  or  milk,  rind  of  lemon,  nut- 
meg. Wash  the  sago  well,  and  soak  for  3  hours  ;  boil  in 
the  same  water  or  milk  until  transparent. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

Wash  a  cup  of  tapioca  through  several  waters,  soak  all 
night,  and  boil  until  transparent ;  add  sugar  and  lemon- 
iuice  while  boiling,  and  put  away  to  cool  when  done. 

INDIAN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

Mix  half  a  cup  of  Indian  meal  with  a  very  little  water, 
stir  until  perfectly  smooth  ;  to  3  cups  of  boiling  water, 
salted,  add  the  meal,  stirring  it  in  slowly ;  let  it  boil  J  hour  ; 
it  can  be  retained  on  the  stomach  when  almost  everything 
else  is  rejected. 


405 

Boiled   Flour  Gruel.  INVALID  COOKERY.  Dried  Beef  Breth. 

BOILED  FLOUR  GRUEL. 

Tie  a  cup  of  flour  in  a  cotton  cloth  and  boil  three  hours. 
Then  take  it  out  and  when  cold  remove  the  soft  outside  part 
and  grate  the  inner  part  when  wanted  for  use.  Thicken 
milk  with  it  as  for  common  porridge,  and  season  with  sugar 
and  salt.  It  is  a  most  excellent  and  agreeable  food  for 
teething  children  with  tendency  to  bowel  complaint.  And 
it  is  equally  good  for  invalids. 

MILK  PORRIDGE. 

Half  pint  milk  and  J  pint  water  ;  heat  to  boiling  and  stir 
in  i  teaspoon  flour  mixed  with  i  tablespoon  cold  water. 
Let  cook  5  minutes.  Salt  slightly.  In  cases  of  diarrhea, 
season  with  pepper  and  nutmeg. 

Milk  Porridge. 

Mix  J  cup  flour  with  i  cup  water  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add 
to  it  i  pint  boiling  milk.  Let  cook  about  10  minutes  in  a 
double  boiler.  Salt  and  flavor  as  liked. 

BEEF  TEA. 

One  pound  lean  beef,  cut  very  small,  put  into  a  wide- 
mouthed  bottle,  corked  closely  ;  set  the  bottle  into  a  kettle 
of  water,  and  keep  it  boiling  for  2  hours  ;  strain  the  liquid 
and  season.  Chicken  can  be  used  the  same  way. 

MRS.  GARFIELD'S  BEEF  EXTRACT. 
One  pound  lean  beef  cut  fine,  put  into  I  pint  cold  water  ; 
add  6  drops    muriatic    acid.     Mix   thoroughly,   let   stand    I 
hour,  strain  and  press  until  all  the  liquid  is  extracted. 

RAW  BEEF— VERY  NUTRITIOUS. 

Chop  lean  fresh  -beef  very  fine.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  spread  on  slices  of  buttered  bread,  either  white  or 
Graham. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Boil  the  first  and  second  joints  in  a  quart  of  water  till 
tender.  Season  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper. 

DRIED  BEEF  BROTH. 

Slice  dried  beef  very  thin  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Set  back  on  the  stove,  closely  covered,  for  \  hour.  Season 
with  small  lump  of  butter  and  pinch  of  pepper.  Serve  with 
crackers  or  bread  cut  in  dice. 


406 

Mutton  Broth.  INVALID  COOKERY.  For  Weak  Stomachs. 

MUTTON  BROTH. 

Boil  I  pound  lean  mutton  or  lamb  in  I  quart  unsalted  water. 
When  very  tender,  take  out,  strain  the  water  ;  add  a  table- 
spoon rice  previously  soaked  in  a  little  warm  water.  Dim- 
mer J  hour.  Stir  often,  season  to  taste  ;  add  4  tablespoons 
milk  ;  simmer  again,  and  serve  hot  with  cream  crackers. 

CREAM  SOUP. 

To  |  cup  good  cream  add  2  cups  boiling  water.  Serve 
with  bits  of  toast,  and  salt  lightly. 

CRACKER  RELISH. 

Put  I  quart  milk  in  a  saucepan  on  the  stove.  When  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and 
drop  into  it  J  pound,  or  less,  of  oyster  crackers,  or  broken 
crackers.  Let  stand  half  a  minute,  take  right  up  and  serve 
hot.  Good  for  breakfast  or  tea — either  for  well  or  sick. 

CRACKER  AND  EGG. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Jackson. 

Pour  enough  boiling  water  on  3  soda  crackers  to  saturate 
them ;  add  I  teaspoon  butter,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  salt. 
To  this  add  2  soft-boiled  eggs,  and  serve  hot. 

EGG  AND    SPONGE  CAKE. 

Boil  a  cup  of  new  milk.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  scald  in  the  milk  ;  then  stir  the  beaten  yolk 
with  i  tablespoon  sugar.  Let  boil  up  and  pour  it  over  a 
slice  of  sponge  cake,  after  flavoring  with  \  teaspoon  of  any 
essence  liked. 

PANADA. 

Take  thin  pieces  of  light  bread,  or  a  couple  of  crackers, 
in  a  bowl.  Put  in  a  small  lump  of  butter,  grate  some  nut- 
meg, or  use  cinnamon,  if  preferred.  Pour  over  boiling 
water.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Add  spirits,  if  required. 

CIDER  PANADA. 

Pour  \  cup  water  over  a  slice  of  nice  toast.  Sprinkle 
lightly  with  nutmeg  and  sugar.  Then  add  4  tablespoons 
cider.  Wine  may  be  used,  if  preferred. 

FOR  WEAK  STOMACHS. 
Take  corn  and  roast  it  the  same  as  coffee.     Grind  it  in  a 


__  _  407 

Tomato  Custard.  THE  NURSERY.  Nursing-  Bottles. 

coffee-mill  and  make  into  a  mush,  gruel,  or  thin  cakes- 
baked  —  and  give  either  warm  or  cold  with  whatever  sea- 
soning the  stomach  will  bear.  Boiled  in  milk,  it  is  excel- 
lent for  summer  complaints. 

TOMATO   CUSTARD. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Jackson. 

Strain  I  pint  stewed  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  ;  add 
4  beaten  eggs,  i  pint  new  milk,  I  cup  sugar,  I  tablespoon 
flour.  Bake  in  small  tins. 

DRIED  FLOUR  FOR  TEETHING  INFANTS. 
Tie  I  cup  flour  in  a  piece  of  muslin  ;  put  into  cold  water 
and  boil  3  hours.  Turn  out  and  dry  in  the  sun,  or  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Grate  a  tablespoon  to  a  cup  of  boiling 
milk  and  water,  half  and  half.  Make  the  flour  smooth  with 
a  little  cold  milk  before  stirring  in.  Salt  a  little. 


THE 


BATHING  INFANTS. 

Always  test  the  temperature  of  the  water  by  dipping  the 
elbow  in  it.  A  dear  old  Irishwoman  was  in  my  room  one 
day  when  I  was  about  to  wash  my  first  baby.  She  thought 
the  water  was  too  hot,  and  it  proved  so  to  be.  Then  she 
told  me  of  this  never-failing  test.  Many  a  tender  babe  has 
been  almost  burned  by  a  bath  in  water  that  would  feel  only 
comfortably  warm  to  the  hand  of  the  nurse  so  accustomed  to 
heat  that  an  added  degree  would  be  scarcely  perceptible. 

MILK  FOR  THE  BABY. 

When  milk  has  been  set  aside  for  the  baby,  use  the  upper 
third.  The  curd  or  cheesy  part  falls  to  the  bottom.  The 
upper  is  more  easily  digested. 

NURSING-BOTTLES. 

Let  me  persuade  mothers  to  discard  the  tubes  that  come 
with  nursing-bottles.  They  are  a  fruitful  source  of  infantile 
troubles.  Many  a  baby  has  gone  to  its  grave  through  their 
use.  No  matter  how  particularly  they  are  cleansed,  parti- 
cles of  sour  milk  will  adhere  to  some  parts  of  the  rubber. 
Our  best  physicians  are  now  advising  against  them.  This 


408 

The  Baby.  THE  NURSERY.  Rocking  the  Baby. 

is  so  serious  a  matter  that  it  cannot  be  argued  too  strongly 
A  rubber  nipple  placed  over  the  mouth  of  the  bottle  is  very 
convenient  and  comparatively  safe.  It  should  be  kept  in 
cold  water  when  not  in  use,  and  the  bottle  should  be  filled 
with  water. 

To  CLEANSE  A  NURSING-BOTTLE. 

Buy  five  cents'  worth  of  shot  and  put  into  the  bottle  with 
a  little  water  and  shake  it  well.  Every  bit  of  sour  milk  or 
curd  will  come  off  readily.  Pour  out  the  shot,  rinse  the 
bottle,  and  keep  the  shot  in  a  dish  on  the  stove-shelf  or  near 
the  stove  to  dry,  and  it  is  ready  for  use  the  next  time.  This 
is  the  easiest  way  possible  to  clean  a  bottle. 

TURN  THE  BABY  OVER. 

After  an  infant  has  slept  for  a  couple  of  hours  or  more, 
turn  it  over  on  the  other  side,  and  it  will  sleep  just  about  as 
long  again. 

ROCKING  THE  BABY. 

I  wish  to  urge  upon  every  young  mother  the  plan  of 
putting  babies  to  bed  without  rocking  them.  If  there  were 
but  one  child  in  the  family,  and  it  were  known  to  a  certainty 
that  it  would  be  the  last  of  that  line,  there  might  be  suffi- 
cient excuse  to  devote  one's  time  to  rocking  it  to  sleep. 
But  when  the  first  steps  aside  for  the  second,  and  the  second 
is  followed  by  the  third,  and  so  on,  the  mother's  time  is  too 
valuable  to  spend  two  or  three  hours  a  day  in  forming  a 
habit  which  will  be  but  an  injury  to  the  little  one  afterwards. 
If  it  has  been  put  to  sleep  at  the  breast  during  the  period  of 
nursing,  then  let  the  plan  be  formed  when  it  is  weaned. 
Feed  it,  and  when  it  is  time  for  its  nap  fondle  and  kiss  it  as 
much  as  you  like,  but  lay  it  down,  cover  it  up,  turn  and 
leave  it.  It  will  sob  and  cry,  and  perhaps  sit  bolt  upright  or 
slide  out  of  bed,  but  put  it  back,  if  for  twenty  times.  It  will 
not  take  very  many  of  these  persistencies  until  the  habit  of 
going  to  sleep  alone  and  quietly  will  be  formed,  and  all 
parties  to  the  proceeding  will  pronounce  themselves  the 
better  for  it.  Pray  do  not  think  your  child  an  exception. 
Children  are  very  much  alike,  after  all.  Of  course,  it  takes 
longer  to  conquer  some  than  it  does  others,  and  strong  wills 
are  very  perceptible,  even  in  babies  of  a  few  months  old. 
Our  aim  is  not  to  break  the  will,  only  to  bend  it  in  a  direction 
to  benefit  itself. 

To  MOTHERS. 

And  now  a  word  to  mothers — those  of  you  who  do  your 


4Q9 

Mothers.  THE  NURSERY.  Save  Yourself. 

own  work.     Women  who  keep  servants  may  skip  this  chap- 
ter.    Save  yourself.     Save  yourself. 

SAVE  YOURSELF. 

In  the  first  place,  sit  all  you  can.  Sit  down  to  prepare 
the  vegetables  for  dinner.  Sit  down  to  wash  the  dishes. 
Sit  down  to  scour  the  knives  and  rub  up  the  silver.  Sit 
down  to  take  up  the  ashes.  Sit  down  to  the  ironing-board 
and  smooth  the  plain  pieces.  And  here,  before  I  forget  it, 
let  me  say,  get  your  steel  knives  plated  and  save  yourself 
about  six  hours'  time  each  month.  Once  plated,  they  will 
keep  bright,  with  ordinary  washing  and  wiping,  three  or 
four  years.  Nothing  will  spot  them.  Vinegar  or  acid  of  any 
kind  has  no  effect.  It  is  called  Stannil  Plating.  The  cost 
is  one  dollar  per  dozen  knives.  It  is  an-  investment  that 
pays  a  very  large  interest. 

When  you  wash  your  dishes — being  sure  they  are  well 
washed — pour  hot  water  over  them,  and  turn  them  upside 
down  on  a  cloth  laid  on  the  table,  in  a  basket,  or,  better 
still,  get  a  dish-drainer,  cover  them  up  with  a  cloth  or  news- 
paper, and  go  about  your  other  work.  They  will  be  clean 
and  dry  when  you  are  ready  to  put  them  away. 

Now,  about  ironing.  If  your  husband's  night-shirt  is 
smoothed  in  front  and  folded  artistically,  who  is  to  know 
whether  the  back  has  been  ironed  or  not  ?  I  '11  venture  to 
say  that  he  will  not,  unless  you  tell  him.  The  same  with 
your  own  night-dresses  ;  and  the  children's  drawers  !  Little 
romps,  they  soil  them  in  less  time  than  it  takes  to  do  them 
up.  Let  the  gathers  go.  Iron  the  bottoms  of  the  legs 
smoothly,  and  that  is  enough.  You  can  iron  six  or  eight 
pairs  in  this  way,  while,  otherwise,  you  would  be  working  at 
two  pairs. 

Learn  to  slight  where  it  will  do  to  slight.  Some  gar- 
ments must  not  be  slighted  in  the  least.  Aprons  and  dresses 
should  be  done  the  very  best  that  one  knows  how. 

Sheets  may  be  folded  smoothly  and  have  a  weight  put 
upon  them  ;  or,  take  one  at  a  time,  and  lay  it  under  the 
ironing-sheet  and  iron  over  it  for  awhile.  Then  fold  and 
put  away,  and  take  another,  until  all  are  done. 

It  is  not  absolutely  necessary  to  iron  skirts,  except  for 
twelve  or  fifteen  inches  above  the  bottom. 

Bear  in  mind,  these  are  hints  to  those  only,  who  need 
them.  But  there  is  enough  in  life  that  has  to  be  done,  with- 
*5<> 


Earache.  THE  NURSERY.  Croup. 

out  vexing  our  souls  and  wearing  out  our  bodies  over  work 
that  is  not  essential  either  to  the  happiness  or  well-being  of 
our  fellows. 

EARACHE. 

Turn  the  little  sufferer  on  the  side,  and  from  a  height  of  a 
foot  or  more  pour  into  the  affected  ear  a  small  stream  of 
water  just  as  hot  as  you  dare  use.  It  will  cause  a  moment- 
ary screaming,  but  the  pain  will  cease.  I  have  tried  this 
with  a  child  two  years  old,  who  was  suffering  intensely  from 
earache,  and  the  entire  face  and  head  seemed  inflamed.  It 
was  not  fifteen  minutes  before  he  fell  asleep,  and  that  was 
the  last  of  the  earache. 

THE  EAR. 

I  am  satisfied  that  the  practice  of  inserting  cotton 
in  an  affected  ear  for  any  cause  is  a  very  pernicious  one. 
A  well-known  army  surgeon  in  a  western  city  suffered  much 
while  in  the  army  from  earache,  and  kept  putting  in  cotton  to 
exclude  the  air.  He  finally  became  deaf  and  suffered  from 
various  nervous  ailments  for  years.  A  friend,  also  a  physi- 
cian, finally  examined  his  ear,  and  took  out  over  half  a  finger 
length  of  thick  wads  of  cotton.  His  deafness  disappeared, 
and  his  nervous  system  was  restored  to  health.  This  case 
is  perfectly  authentic.  A  high  medical  authority  said  that 
nothing  smaller  than  the  elbow  should  be  put  in  the  ear. 

NOSE  BLEED. 

Excite  a  vigorous  motion  of  the  jaws  by  chewing  some- 
thing— either  gum  or  paper.  This  is  said  to  be  effectual.  It 
is  certainly  worth  trying. 

To  EXPEL  SUBSTANCES  FROM  THE  NOSE. 

Children  frequently  get  beans,  grains  of  corn,  buttons,  or 

other  substances,  up  their  noses.     In  such  a  case,   have  the 

child  open  its  mouth,    apply  your  mouth   to  it,  and  blow 

rather  hard.     The  obstacle  will  be  expelled  from  the  nostril. 

SIMPLE  TREATMENT  FOR  CROUP. 

As  soon  as  the  wheezing  is  heard,  apply  the  coldest  water 
you  can  get  to  the  neck  and  chest.  Pound  up  some  ice  in  a 
napkin  and  feed  the  child  a  little  at  a  time  with  a  teaspoon. 
Keep  the  cold  compress  on  the  throat  and  chest,  and  if  per- 
sisted in  for  a  short  time  relief  will  be  almost  certain  to 
follow.  At  any  rate,  even  if  a  physician  is  sent  for,  use  these 
precautions,  and  nine  times  out  of  ten  the  disease  will  be 


Whooping-Cough.  REMEDIES.  Refreshing  Warfi. 

checked  at  once.     The  chief  difficulty  in  croup  is  in  letting 
it  get  full  headway.     There  is  not  an  instant  to  lose. 

WHOOPING-COUGH  CURE. 

Ged.  Butler,  Waukegan,  111. 

Olive  oil,  2  ounces;  Jamaica  rum,  2  ounces;  brown  sugar,  2 
ounces;  laudanum,  I  drachm.  Melt  the  sugar  in  a  little  water 
and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Give  a  teaspoon  after  every 
paroxysm. 

After  the  third  week  of  whooping-cough,  put  I  ounce 
strongest  liquid  ammonia  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  in  an 
open  pan.  Keep  up  the  steam  by  putting  in  a  red  hot  brick. 
Place  in  the  center  of  the  room  where  the  patient  is.  This 
will  frequently  terminate  the  malady  in  3  or  4  days.  Try 
it  each  night  until  relieved. 

To  CURE  BITING  OF  THE  FINGER-NAILS. 
Make  a  couple  of  little  calico  bags  loose  enough  to  al- 
low free  use  of  the  fingers.  Tie  them  around  the  wrists 
with  draw-strings.  Keep  them  on  night  and  day,  and  re- 
place with  another  pair  when  soiled.  A  couple  of  days  will 
often  suffice  to  effect  a  cure. 

FOR   VERMIN  IN  CHILDREN'S  HEADS. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  A.  White. 

Wash  the  head  in  a  solution  of  carbolic  acid  in  water. 
Any  druggist  will  tell  you  the  proportion  to  use.  In  a 
week's  time  wash  again  in  order  to  destroy  the  animal  life 
as  it  hatches.  This  is  equally  good  for  swine,  if  similarly 
affected. 


(REMEDIES. 


REFRESHING  WASH  FOR  SICK-ROOM. 

Two  ounces  each  of  lavender,  mint,  rosemary,  rue,  sage, 
and  wormwood.  Put  into  a  vessel  and  pour  over  it  3  or  4 
quarts  good  vinegar.  Cover  closely,  and  keep  in  a  warm 
place  4  days.  Then  strain,  and  add  I  ounce  powdered 
camphor  gum.  Bottle,  and  cork  tightly.  Get  nurses  and 
others  employed  about  a  sick-room  to  use  it  as  a  wash. 
Good  in  infectious  diseases. 


4I2 

Sponge  Bath.  REMEDIES.  Discoloration. 

STIMULATING  SPONGE  BATH. 

Dr.  J.  E.  Gilman,  Chicago. 

One  cup  water,  i  cup  alcohol,  i  tablespoon  salt,  I  ounce 
aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia.  Very  agreeable  and  stimulat- 
ing. 

AQUA  AMMONIA  FOR  NAUSEA. 

A  couple  of  drops  in  a  swallow  of  water,  and  an  occasional 
use  of  a  smelling-bottle  of  it,  will  afford  great  relief. 

To  STEEP  HERBS. 

Boiling  spoils  herbs.  Put  them  on  the  stove  in  cold  water, 
and  steep  slowly. 

DISINFECTANTS. 

Put  dried  sage  into  a  hot  shovel,  and  it  will  take  away 
any  disagreeable  smell  in  a  sick-room  or  sleeping-room. 

ONIONS  AS  A  DISINFECTANT. 

In  case  of  small-pox,  or  any  contagious  disease,  cut  up 
an  onion  and  put  it  in  the  sick-room,  and  replace  it  every 
hour  with  a  fresh  one. 

DISINFECTANT. 

H.  C.  Strong,  Chicago. 

Put  a  piece  of  saltpeter  the  size  of  a  pea  in  a  glass  of  water 
on  a  shelf  in  the  room  needing  it.  A  most  valuable  anti- 
septic. 

BEST  REMEDY  FOR  A  CUT  OR  BRUISE. 

Immerse  the  part  in  as  hot  water  as  can  be  borne  until 
the  pain  and  inflammation  are  relieved.  Even  in  cases  where 
amputation  seems  necessary  from  the  terribly  lacerated  con- 
dition of  a  cut  or  bruised  hand,  it  may  be  saved  by  keeping 
it  in  a  basin  of  hot  water  for  a  few  hours.  Keep  the  water 
hot,  and  do  not  give  up  until  the  inflammation  has  subsided. 

BEST  CURE  FOR  SPRAIN. 

One  drachm  oil  of  wormwood.  Mix  with  i  gill  alcohol. 
Apply  to  sprain  or  bruise,  and  keep  a  cloth  wet  with  it  on 
the  injured  part.  Will  cure  in  a  very  short  time. 

DISCOLORATION  OF  THE  SKIN. 

To  prevent  discoloration  of  the  skin  after  a  hurt,  moisten 
a  little  dry  starch  with  cold  water  and  put  upon  the  injured 
part.  Do  it  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  injury.  It  is  a  far 
pleasanter  application  than  raw  beef,  and  just  as  effectual. 


Chapped  Hands.  REMEDIES.  Cough. 

CHAPPED  HANDS — To  CURE. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Woodworth. 

One  ounce  glycerine,  2  drachms  spermaceti,  2  ounces  olive 
oil.  Mix  by  heating.  Mutton  tallow  may  be  used  instead 
of  spermaceti,  in  which  case  stir  until  cool  to  prevent  the 
glycerine  from  settling  to  the  bottom. 

OINTMENT  FOR  SCRATCHES,  BURNS,  OR  SORES. 
Three  drachms  camphor  gum,  3  drachms  white  beeswax, 
3  drachms  spermaceti,  2  ounces  olive  oil.  Put  in  a  vessel  on 
the  stove  and  let  melt  slowly.  Anoint  the  hands  before 
retiring,  and  put  on  a  pair  of  old  gloves.  If  the  hands  are 
chapped,  use  oatmeal  instead  of  soap  for  washing  them,  and 
rub  on  dry  oatmeal  to  absorb  the  moisture. 

EYE-WATER — VERY  SUPERIOR. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Chace,  Mishawaka,  Ind. 

One  quart  snow  water,  or  pure  rain  water,  I  tablespoon 
salt,  i  tablespoon  fine  crushed  sugar  (pure),  I  teaspoon  white 
vitriol.  To  prepare  the  vitriol,  lay  a  white  paper  on  the 
back  part  of  the  stove,  and  put  the  vitriol  on  it.  Do  not  let 
it  brown,  but  let  it  bubble  up  as  long  as  it  will,  and  let  it 
remain  till  it  is  perfectly  dry.  Then  pulverize  it  and  mix 
the  ingredients  all  together.  Use  as  a  wash. 

EYE-WATER  FOR  WEAK  AND  INFLAMED  EYES. 

Mrs.  E.  E.  Bower. 

Sugar  of  lead,  5  grains  ;  sulphate  of  zinc,  5  grains  ;  rose 
water,  2  ounces  ;  morphine,  I  grain. 

WEAK  EYES. 

If  the  eyes  are  weak  and  it  is  troubleso'me  to  thread  a 
needle,  it  may  be  helped  by  holding  the  needle  over  some- 
thing white  and  then  threading  it. 

EXCELLENT  REMEDY  FOR  A  COLD. 

Juice  of  2  lemons  in  a  glass  of  hot  water,  sweetened,  and 
soda  sufficient  to  cause  a  fermentation.  Drink  immediately 
after  stirring  in  the  soda  and  take  it  before  retiring. 

EXCELLENT  HOME  RECIPE  FOR  A  COUGH. 
Take  a  package  of  dried  mullein,  steep  in  a  pint  of  water 
till  reduced  about  half.     Strain  and  add   I  pound  loaf  sugar. 
Dose  for  an  adult  a  tablespoon  after  each  meal  and  before 
retiring. 


4H 

Diphtheria.  REMEDIES.  Cholera, 

FOR  A  DRY,  IRRITATING  COUGH. 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Callahan,  Tangipahoa,  La. 

Smoke  in  a  common  clean  pipe  equal  quantities  of  ground 
coffee  and  rich  pine  saw-dust.  My  husband  finds  almost  in- 
stant relief  when  his  throat  and  lungs  are  sore.  Swallow 
all  the  smoke  you  can. 

COUGH  SYRUP. 

Mrs.  L.  S.  H. 

One  pint  best  vinegar.  Break  into  it  an  egg  and  leave  in, 
shell  and  all,  over  night.  In  the  morning  it  will  all  be  eaten 
except  the  white  skin  which  must  be  taken  out.  Then  add 
i  pound  loaf  sugar,  and  for  an  adult,  take  a  tablespoon  three 
times  a  day.  This  is  a  most  excellent  remedy  for  a  cough 
in  any  stage. 

DIPHTHERIA. 

J.  M.  Ball,  Normal,  111. 

Half  ounce  chlorate  potash  dissolved  in  water — add  3 
ounces  tincture  of  iron.  One  teaspoon  of  the  mixture  to 
a  wine-glass  of  water.  Gargle  with  it,  and  after  the  third 
application  it  will  be  cured. 

FOR  AN  INVETERATE   SORE  THROAT. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  James,  Otsego,  Wis. 

One  teaspoon  refined  borax  and  one  teaspoon  pure 
glycerine  put  into  a  cup,  and  half  fill  the  cup  with  hot  water. 
When  cool,  use  as  a  gargle.  Very  excellent  in  scarlet  fever. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Carroll,  Chicago. 

To  i  quart  blackberry  juice  add  I  pound  white  sugar,  I 
tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg. 
Boil  all  together  15  minutes.  Bottle  while  hot,  cork  and 
seal.  Put  up  in  small  bottles  so  that  fermentation  will  not 
set  in  while  using. 

HOT  DROPS  FOR  CHOLERA  OR  CHOLERA  MORBUS. 

Mrs.  E.   E.  Bower,   St.   Joseph,  Mo. 

Laudanum,  I  ounce  ;  spirits  camphor,  i  ounce  ;  essence 
peppermint,  I  ounce  ;  Hoffman's  anodyne,  i  ounce  ;  tinc- 
ture cayenne  pepper,  i  drachm  ;  tincture  ginger,  \  ounce. 
Mix  all  together.  For  cramps,  ^  teaspoonful  every  half 
hoar  until  relieved.  For  cholera  morbus,  I  teaspoonful 
every  half  hour  until  relieved  ;  some  cases  may  need  more. 
In  cholera,  a  tablespoonful  may  be  given  along  with  strong 


Liver  Bitters.  REMEDIES.  Corns 

,  doses  of  catnip  tea.  For  cold,  uneasy  pain  in  the  stomach, 
10  drops  is  usually  enough.  One  or  two  drops  will  relieve 
colic  in  babies  almost  instantly.  Always  take  it  in  at  least 
five  times  as  much  water,  well  sweetened.  In  cramps,  use 
hot  water.  When  traveling,  a  few  drops  in  the  water  you 
drink  will  prevent  any  bad  effects  from  change  of  climate. 
Be  sure  and  have  the  druggist  make  it  full  strength. 

LIVER  BITTERS. 

Mrs.   E.  E.  Bower. 

Hops,  2  ounces  ;  Buchu  leaves,  2  ounces  ;  dandelion  root, 
2  ounces  ;  mandrake  root,  i  ounce  ;  rhubarb  root,  I  ounce; 
juniper  berries,  2  ounces;  alcohol,  I  pint.  Putin  a  stone  jar, 
turn  on  4  quarts  hot  water,  cover  and  let  it  stand  on  the 
stove  24  hours.  Do  not  boil,  but  evaporate  to  about  2 
quarts  Strain,  and,  when  cool,  add  the  alchohol  ;  and, 
after  mixing  it  well,  ''everlastingly  shake  it."  Bottle  tight. 
Those  who  prefer  can  add  loaf  sugar,  I  pound,  made  into 
simple  syrup.  Ordinary  dose,  I  tablespoonful  ;  though,  of 
course,  one's  judgment  must  be  used.  For  chills,  the  day 
the  chill  comes,  take  3  spoonfuls  within  an  hour.  At  other 
times,  take  just  before  eating  and  going  to  bed. 

BUNIONS. 
Paint  the  bunion  over  with  iodine. 

FROZEN  FEET — To  CURE. 

Get  some  lumps  of  fresh  lime  and  make  a  foot-tub  full  of 
strong  whitewash  mixture,  and  immerse  the  feet  in  it  as  hot 
as  may  be  borne.  This  remedy  is  to  cure  that  disagreeable 
itching  that  troubles  one  after  having  frozen  the  feet.  This 
itching  will  come  on  night  after  night  and  season  after  sea- 
son. The  relief  will  be  instantaneous.  Let  them  remain 
half  an  hour  in  the  whitewash.  They  will  be  shriveled  up, 
but  free  from  pain.  Rub  them  briskly  and  great  rolls  of 
dead  cuticle  will  peel  off.  Anoint  with  mutton  tallow,  put 
on  some  cotton  stockings,  and  go  to  bed.  Repeat  the  ap- 
plication if  necessary,  but  it  will  require  but  two  or  three  to 
effect  a  cure. 

CHILBLAINS — To  CURE. 

Oil  of  spike  rubbed  on  twice  a  day  will  often  effect  a  cure 
in  a  few  days. 

CORNS — To  CURE. 

Sir  Humphrey  Davy's  Recipe. 

Two  drachms  potash  and   I   drachm  salt  of  sorrel.     Mix 


416 

Warts.  REMEDIES.  Mustard  Poultice. 

into  a  fine  powder.  Put  on  enough  to  cover  the  corn  for 
four  successive  nights,  binding  it  on  with  a  cloth. 

Corns  can  often  be  cured  by  paring  them  down  and 
rubbing  on  a  little  strong  vinegar  or  acetic  acid  every  night. 
Each  morning,  rub  them  over  with  lard  or  olive  oil. 

The  latest  cure  for  soft  corns  is  this  :  Wash  and  dry  the 
foot  thoroughly,  and  put  on  a  sprinkling  of  dry  sulphur  night 
and  morning  for  several  weeks,  and  a  cure  is  assured. 

WARTS— To  REMOVE. 

Apply  oil  of  cinnamon  to  the  wart  for  three  successive 
days,  and  it  will  disappear  very  shortly. 

WARTS— To  CURE. 

Get  from  a  Homoeopathic  pharmacy  a  small  vial  of  causti- 
cum.  Give  half  a  dozen  pellets  three  times  a  day  for  three 
weeks  and  the  warts  will  disappear. 

[This  I  could  not  credit  had  I  not  tried  it  in  my  own 
family.  The  child's  hands  were  literally  covered  with  these 
excrescences,  and  more  were  coming  all  the  time.  But  this 
remedy  effected  a  cure  in  less  than  a  month. — ED.] 

MOLES— To  REMOVE. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  A.  White,  Maywood,  111. 

Apply  nitric  acid  with  a  pointed  quill  toothpick.  When 
it  dries,  pick  it  off  and  apply  again  until  the  mole  is  entirely 
removed.  It  leaves  a  slight  white  spot,  which  grows  dimmer 
with  age. 

FELON — To  CURE. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Bower,  Erie,  Pa. 

Make  a  poultice  of  raw  onions  and  change  every  six  hours. 
I  have  cured  many  cases  with  this.  Never  knew  it  to  fail  if 
kept  on.  Ha-ve  always  drawn  out  the  poison  in  from  twelve 
to  thirty-six  hours. 

POISONS. 

If  poison  of  almost  any  kind  has  been  swallowed  it  may  be 
rendered  harmless  by  swallowing  immediately  half  a  pint  of 
sweet  oil. 

IVY  POISON— OR  BEE  STING. 

Apply  olive  oil  and  relief  instantly  follows. 

MUSTARD  POULTICE. 

To  make  a  mustard  poultice  that  will  draw  and  not  blister, 
mix  the  mustard  with  white  of  egg. 


417 

Linseed  Poultice.  REMEDIES.  Sleeplessness. 

LINSEED   POULTICE — To  MAKE. 

Make  a  flannel  bag  8  by  12  inches,  leaving  one  end 
open.  Leave  an  end  of  flannel  projecting  over  the  opening, 
so  it  can  be  folded  over  and  basted  when  the  poultice  is 
put  in.  Fasten  a  tape  at  each  corner,  to  use  in  keeping  the 
bag  in  position.  Get  another  piece  of  flannel  twice  as  long 
as  the  bag  is  wide  and  the  same  width  as  the  length  of  the 
bag.  Mix  crushed  flax  seed  with  boiling  water  rather  soft, 
and  pour  it  into  the  bag,  already  heated  before  the  fire. 
Fasten  the  end  over  by  basting,  and  wrap  the  strip  of  flan- 
nel (well-heated)  around  the  bag  and  fasten  it  in  place 
with  string  or  safety-pins.  A  layer  of  cotton-batting  may 
be  put  outside  also.  Thus  a  boiling  hot  poultice  may  be 
used.  The  layers  of  flannel  allow  a  gradual  passing  of  the 
heat  to  the  skin.  The  increase  of  the  heat  is  so  gradual 
through  the  flannel  conductors  that  there  is  no  painful 
sensation. 

BALDNESS— To  CURE. 

G.  W.  C.,  Cleveland,  O. 

One  pound  pressed  hemlock  bark.  Break  in  pieces  and 
put  into  a  3-quart  tin-pail.  Pour  over  it  2  quarts  boiling 
soft  water,  and  simmer  slowly.  When  reduced  to  3  pints 
set  it  aside  to  cool  ar.d  pour  off  the  clear  liquid  for  use.  Wet 
the  whole  scalp  thoroughly  four  or  five  times  a  day,  rubbing 
gently  with  the  finger-ends.  When  the  scalp  gets  healthier 
and  stronger  use  more  friction.  One  package  will  generally 
be  all  that  is  required  to  tone  up  the  scalp.  It  will  not  only 
prevent  the  hair  from  falling  out,  but  will  bring  a  new 
growth  of  hair  if  there  are  any  hair  bulbs  at  all. 

SLEEPLESSNESS. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  fresh  hops  and  put  into  a  small  pil- 
low-case, and  use  for  a  pillow.  My  husband  suffered  in- 
tensely from  sleeplessness  for  many  months,  the  effects  of 
sunstroke,  and  the  first  relief  he  experienced  was  from  the 
use  of  a  hop  pillow.  For  a  night  or  two  his  sleep  was  very 
hard  and  he  awoke  tired.  But  it  caused  him  to  sleep  for 
six  or  eight  months.  After  that  as  his  sleep  began  to  be 
disturbed  again,  he  ate  a  dish  of  fried  onions  just  before 
retiring  about  every  second  night,  and  that  worked  well 
for  a  few  weeks.  One  remedy  seems  to  exhaust  itself,  and 
if  let  alone  for  a  time  can  be  resorted  to  again.  A  high 


4i8 

Hops— To  Heat.  REMEDIES.  Citric  Acid. 

London  authority  recommends  a  eup  of  hot  beef  tea,  made 
from  half  a  teaspoon  of  Leibig's  extract.  It  allays  brain 
excitement. 

HOPS— To  HEAT. 

If  necessary  to  use  hops  on  a  sick  person,  make  two  bags 
and  fill  with  them,  and  heat  in  a  steamer  over  hot  water. 
This  saves  many  a  burnt  hand  and  bad  stain.  Keep  one 
heating  while  the  other  is  in  use. 

NEURALGIA    CURE. 

Dr.  Alma  S.  Bennett,  Elk  Point,  Dakota. 

One  drachm  sal  ammoniac,  4  ounces  camphor  water.  Take 
a  teaspoon  once  in  five  minutes  until  relieved.  This  has 
proved  a  great  boon  to  a  large  number  of  sufferers. 

LEMONS  FOR  NEURALGIA. 

Lemon,  eaten  freely,  without  the  peel,  and  without  sugar, 
has  proved  very  beneficial  in  neuralgia.  But  very  little 
sugar,  if  any,  must  be  used. 

TOOTHACHE. 

Procure  a  little  plantago  from  a  Homoeopathic  pharmacy 
and  take  a  dose  every  ten  minutes  if  instantaneous  relief 
does  not  follow. 

To  stop  a  tooth  cavity  from  bleeding,  fill  the  cavity  with 
Plaster  of  Paris  made  into  a  soft  putty  with  water. 

CURE  FOR  BURNS. 

Dampen  some  bi-carbonate  of  soda  or  common  saleratus 
with  water,  and  apply  to  the  whole  burnt  surface.  Cover 
with  a  cloth  and  keep  it  moistened.  This  is  effectual  in 
every  case. 

FOR  CONSTIPATION. 

Take  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  bran,  put  it  into  a  goblet  of 
water  and  let  stand  till  well  soaked.  Then  drink  it  entire. 
Do  this  every  morning. 

CITRIC  ACID. 

Two  tablespoons  Glauber  salts,  i  teaspoon  bi-carb.  soda, 
J  teaspoon  common  salt.  Put  I  teaspoon  of  the  mixture  in 
a  goblet  of  boiling  hot  water,  and  drink  every  morning,  for 
constipation,  the  liver  and  the  blood.  Have  the  salts  pul- 
verized as  fine  as  possible. 


Piles.  REMEDIES.  Hydrophobia. 

PILES. 

Take  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  milk  of  sulphur  before  retiring. 
Also  wash  the  parts  with  a  strong  borax  water,  injecting  if 
possible,  and  lay  on  a  soft  linen  cloth  well  saturated  with 
the  solution.  Repeat  once  or  twice  or  until  a  cure  is  effected. 
It  has  cured  very  aggravated  cases  within  the  knowledge  of 
the  author. 

DIETING  FOR  PILES. 

It  is  claimed  by  good  authority  that  milk,  eggs,  and  toma- 
toes must  be  omitted  in  the  diet  of  those  suffering  with  piles. 
In  which  case,  no  medicine  will  be  necessary. 

FOR  BEARING  DOWN. 

For  any  female  weakness  or  bearing  down,  the  greatest 
relief  may  be  afforded  by  an  injection  in  the  vagina,  of  water 
as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  This  is  a  far  better  remedy  than  any 
manipulation  can  afford. 

FOR  NIGHT  SWEATS. 

Put  one  or  more  basins  of  water  under  the  bed  of  the 
patient,  and  renew  every  day.  A  change  for  the  better  will 
be  observed  in  a  very  short  time.  Another  suggestion  is  to 
have  a  strong  healthy  pers-^  i  occupy  the  bed  with  the  pa- 
tient for  a  few  nights.  This  will  help  to  reduce  the  sweat- 
ing. 

CURE  FOR  LOCKJAW. 

Twenty  minutes  in  the  smoke  of  wool  or  woolen  cloth  will 
take  the  pain  out  of  the  worst  case  of  inflammation  arising 
from  any  wound.  All  danger  from  lock-jaw  will  be  removed 
if  this  remedy  is  resorted  to. 

INFLAMMATORY  RHEUMATISM — To  CURE. 
A  gentleman  writes  to  a  Pittsburgh  paper  that  he  was 
completely  cured  by  handling  doves.  He  procured  a  number 
and  would  stroke  and  play  with  them  daily,  and  the  result 
was  a  cure  for  Iv'm,  but  death  to  the  doves.  This  distressing 
malady  is  so  obstinate  that  one  afflicted  with  it  will  resort 
to  almost  anything  suggested. 

HYDROPHOBIA — To  CURE. 

Jane  Grey  Swisshelm. 

Take  3  ounces  of  the  root  of  elecampane,  stew  it  in  a  pint 
of  new  milk  and  give  it,  milk  and  all,  in  the  morning  while 
the  stomach  is  empty  ;  have  him  fast  six  hours  after  taking 


42O 

Small-Pox.  REMEDIES.  Care  of  Beds. 

it  ;  repeat  the  dose  3  times  in  3  successive  mornings,  and 
the  cure  is  complete.  Several  persons  have  written  to  say 
that  it  had  been  tried,  on  my  recommendation,  and  with  suc- 
cess. One  man  who  had  2  children,  and,  I  think,  20  hogs 
and  cows  bitten  by  a  dog  furiously  rabid,  had  administered 
it  to  all,  and  6  months  after  wrote  to  say  that  none  of  them 
had  any  symptoms  of  hydrophobia.  Elecampane  is  generally 
known  as  a  powerful  medicinal  plant,  and  as  it  has  been 
successful,  and  doctors  are  powerless  before  this  disease,  I 
hope  it  will  be  promply  tried,  and  if  it  fails  I  should  like  to 
know  it. 

HYDROPHOBIA  —  ANOTHER  CURE. 

A  missionary  in  Syria,  Mr.  R.  P.  Legrand,  says  he  has 
known  60  cures  in  60  cases  by  use  of  the  following:  Take  3 
handsful  of  the  leaves  of  datura  stramonium  (jimpson  weed), 
boil  in  I  quart  water  until  reduced  half.  Drink  it  all  as  soon 
as  possible  after  the  bite.  A  violent  madness  will  ensue, 
but  of  short  duration.  This  is  followed  by  profuse  perspira- 
tion, and  in  24  hours  the  patient  is  cured.  Cauterization 
might  be  resorted  to  also  at  the  outset. 

SMALL-POX  AND  SCARLET-FEVER  CURE. 
Sulphate  of  zinc,  i  grain  ;  foxglove  (digitalis),  I  grain  ; 
sugar,  ^  teaspoon.  Mix  with  2  tablespoons  water.  When 
thoroughly  mixed  add  4  ounces  water.  Take  a  teaspoon 
every  hour.  Either  disease,  it  is  claimed,  will  disappear  in 
twelve  hours.  Give  a  child  a  smaller  dose.  This  cure  has 
been  the  rounds  of  the  press  from  the  Atlantic  to  the  Pacific 
and  thousands  of  cures  ascribed  to  it. 

RINGWORM  —  To  CURE. 
Make  a  poultice  of  sulphur  and  fresh  butter  and  apply. 


OF  ®E(DS. 


The  place  where  we  spend  about  one-third  of  our  time 
should  have  due  attention,  that  our  sleep  may  be  sweet  and 
refreshing.  I  believe,  from  extensive  observation,  that  there 
is  no  part  of  housework  so  neglected  by  the  average  house- 
keeper as  the  care  of  beds.  Let  us  be  charitable,  and  say 
it  is  mainly  for  want  of  knowledge  on  the  subject. 

There  are  various  ways  to  construct  a  good  and  healthful 
bed  without  the  use  of  feathers.  A  moss  or  hair  mattress 


421 

Hair  Mattress.  CARE  OF  BEDS.  Feathers. 

over  a  good  set  of  springs,  with  a  home-made  cotton  com- 
forter above,  is  probably  the  best  bed  one  can  have.  But 
hair  is  so  expensive  that  comparatively  few  families  use  it, 
besides  it  is  not  always  pure  and  clean.  However,  a  hair 
mattress  can  be  renovated  at  home.  The  cover  can  be 
taken  off  and  washed  ;  the  hair  washed,  scalded,  and  dried, 
and  then  picked  apart  loosely  again,  put  back  in  the  cover, 
and  tacked  as  before.  This  is  far  better  than  to  send  it 
away  to  be  renovated. 

A  husk  mattress  will  answer  the  purpose  of  moss  or  hair 
very  well,  provided  you  have  good  springs.  Whatever  the 
bed  may  be,  I  consider  the  home-made  comforter  as  indis- 
pensable. None  but  the  very  best  of  cotton  should  be  used, 
so  it  will  not  pack  and  get  solid.  Six  or  seven  pounds  is 
sufficient.  For  winter  use,  they  should  be  made  of  wool. 
The  covering  may  be  of  the  very  lightest  quality  of  bed- 
ticking — what  is  called  straw-ticking.  A  thin  unbleached 
muslin,  when  tied  or  knotted  with  some  bright  color,  is  pretty 
and  serviceable.  It  should  be  made  about  the  size  of  the  mat- 
tress. This  is  the  very  best  contrivance  to  protect  the 
heavier  and  more  stationary  mattresses,  as  it  can  easily 
be  thrown  out  upon  the  line  to  air  and  sun  once  a  week, 
and  it  can  be  washed  once  or  twice  a  year.  Most  people 
entertain  the  erroneous  idea  that  comforters  must  be  taken 
apart  to  be  washed.  If  the  best  of  cotton  is  used,  washing 
will  not  hurt  them  ;  the  inside  needs  to  be  cleansed  even 
more  than  the  outside. 

A  cheaper  bed,  and  one  that  is  equally  as  comfortable  as 
a  hair  mattress,  may  be  made  as  follows  :  Fill  a  common 
bed-tick  with  split  husks,  wheat  or  oat-straw  ;  above  it  place 
the  home-made  mattress  or  comforter  above  described. 
Split  husks  are  very  durable.  Oat-straw  is  soft  and  comfort- 
able, and  convenient  to  shake  up  and  air  thoroughly  every 
morning,  and  can,  with  a  trifling  expense,  be  replenished 
once  or  twice  a  year,  or,  indeed,  at  any  time  after  the  bed 
has  been  occupied  by  a  sick  person.  Constant  use  is  a 
serious  objection  to  mattresses.  I  wonder  they  are  so 
commonly  used  when  they  are  so  heavy  and  inconvenient  to 
move  about  and  difficult  to  renovate  Surely,  they  would 
not  be  if  the  importance  of  sunning  and  renovating  beds 
were  better  understood. 

Concerning  feather  beds,  I  am  compelled  to  say  that  they 
scarcely  possess  a  solitary  virtue,  not  one  redeeming  quality 
to  justify  their  use.  As  a  rule,  elderly  people  are  prejudiced 


422 * ^_^ 

Wool  Mattress.  CARE  OF  BEDS.  Small  Bedrooms. 

in  their  favor,  and  imagine  nothing  else  can  make  them 
comfortable.  Doubtless,  in  most  instances,  a  thick  home- 
made wool  mattress  over  a  soft  oat-straw  or  split-husk  bed, 
with  a  good  set  of  pliable  springs,  would  be  equally  as  com- 
fortable. It  is  justly  claimed  that  feather  beds  are  soft  and 
warm — warm  because  they  do  not  so  rapidly  conduct  the 
animal  heat  from  our  bodies  ;  but  we  do  not  want  present 
comfort  at  the  expense  of  future  health.  The  comfort  they 
afford  is  more  than  over-balanced  by  the  injury  they  do  us. 
They  invariably  increase  any  tendency  to  nervousness,  and 
aggravate  pulmonary  disorder.  They  cause  a  general  sense 
of  oppression  and  lassitude.  They  weaken  and  impair  our 
every  vital  function.  They  make  us  more  susceptible  to 
colds  and  to  all  changes  of  the  weather.  They  retain  the 
dampness  of  perspiration  and  thus  develop  the  germs  of 
disease.  Besides  this,  there  is  more  or  less  dead  animal 
matter  belonging  to  the  feathers  which  is  constantly  under- 
going decomposition,  and  the  odor  therefrom  is  very 
offensive  and  unwholesome. 

Hence,  if  they  are  to  be  used  at  all,  the  greatest  care 
should  be  taken  to  prevent  them  from  becoming  completely 
saturated  with  their  own  impurities,  to  say  nothing  of  what 
they  receive  from  the  human  body. 

The  skin  is  a  respiratory  organ  ;  it  both  inhales  and  ex- 
hales. It  contains  about  two  and  a  half  million  pores,  which 
are  constantly  at  work  giving  off  waste  matter,  and  also 
absorbing  the  elements  about  them.  It  is  authentically 
stated  that  at  least  eight  ounces  of  excrementitious  matter 
is  conducted  through  these  pores  during  the  average  time 
of  sleep — eight  hours. 

The  bed  upon  which  we  lie  and  the  covers  of  the  same 
serve  as  a  receptacle  for  these  foul  emanations.  The  per- 
spiration loaded  with  waste  matter  deposits  its  impurities 
and  leaves  them  there  to  be  reabsorbed  by  the  skin  unless 
they  are  dissipated  by  air  and  sunlight.  It  is  difficult  to 
get  impurities  out  and  pure  air  in  through  the  close  ticking. 

Few  beds  get  sufficient  hot  summer  sun  and  wind  to 
purify  them.  The  general  idea  that  a  bed  can  be  kept  pure 
by  exposure  to  the  air  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes,  or  even 
an  hour,  each  morning,  in  a  close,  dark  bedroom,  together 
with  one  day's  sunning  during  house-cleaning  time  (which 
comes  once  or  twice  a  year)  is  absolutely  ridiculous.  Im- 
agine the  impurity  of  such  a  bed  ! 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  plan  a  house  with  small  bedrooms. 


423 

Sunlighf.  CARE  OF  BEDS.  Comforters. 

They  should  always  be  large,  and  have  a  sunny  outlook,  if 
possible.  We  can  often  utilize  the  sunlight  as  It  streams  in 
through  a  large  window  and  save  carrying  beds,  bedding, 
and  pillows  down  stairs.  Remember  that  sunlight  means 
life  to  people  as  well  as  to  plants.  I  wish  I  could  impress 
every  reader  of  this  chapter  with  the  importance  of  airing 
the  top  mattress  (or  home-made  comforter)  and  all  the  bed- 
ding in  the  real  sunlight  once  a  week,  or  once  in  two  weeks 
at  least.  A  day  should  be  taken  as  regularly  for  this  as  for 
the  family  washing,  and  the  housekeeper  should  so  under- 
stand her  duty. 

The  bed  and  windows  should  be  thrown  open  each  morn- 
ing, and  left  so  at  least  two  hours. 

How  important  it  is  that  this  moment's  work  should  be 
done  before  leaving  the  sleeping-room. 

There  is  but  one  way  to  keep  a  bed  in  a  wholesome  con- 
dition, and  that  is  by  sufficient  contact  with  pure  air,  sun- 
light, and  water.  It  is  just  as  important  that  our  beds  be 
physiological  as  that  our  food  be  wholesome. 

It  would  be  better  to  abandon  the  feather  pillow,  also, 
although  they  are  less  injurious  than  beds  of  the  same,  as 
the  head  is  not  so  entirely  covered  from  the  outer  air.  Good 
pillows  may  be  made  of  the  inside  of  corn  husks  finely  split ; 
or  the  moss  or  hair  that  upholsters  use  (if  the  latter  has  been 
subjected  to  a  cleansing  process  as  before  described).  A 
pad  made  of  extra  good  cotton  and  covered  with  cheese- 
cloth, placed  over  husk  pillows  and  tacked  at  the  corners, 
makes  them  softer  and  prevents  the  rustling.  This  can  be 
washed  and  renewed  occasionally.  For  children  especially, 
it  is  far  better  to  substitute  something  for  feathers. 

The  quantity  and  quality  of  the  bed  covering  is  just  as 
important  as  the  proper  construction  of  the  bed.  It  should 
be  as  light  as  possible  to  insure  warmth.  Like  the  bed,  the 
covering  should  be  of  such  material  as  will  absorb  dampness 
and  impurities  as  little  as  possible.  Comforters  made  of 
cotton  batting  (and  often  the  poorest  quality)  so  generally 
used  in  this  country  are  very  objectionable.  They  are  com- 
pact and  heavy.  Their  use  requires  too  much  weight  for* 
sufficient  warmth.  They  render  respiration  less  free,  and 
retard  circulation.  *  A  sense  of  languor  and  weariness  fre- 
quently follows  their  use.  A  light,  puffy,  wool  comforter  is 
superior  to  anything  else  for  warmth.  It  requires  about 
three  and  a  half  pounds  for  each  comforter.  The  wool  can 
be  purchased  of  wool-dealers  in  the  spring,  or  of  some  near 


424 

Wool  Batting.  CARE  OF  BEDS.  Ventilation. 

farmer.  It  must  be  thoroughly  washed  twice,  in  good  suds, 
rinsed  well,  dried  and  taken  to  the  woolen  mills.  See  the 
superintendent  and  order  your  batting  to  be  made  without 
oil,  in  order  to  prevent  the  disagreeable  odor  of  the  grease 
used  in  woolen  mills.  Explain  your  request,  and  demand 
that  they  grant  it.  Comforters  made  of  wool  wash  very 
nicely,  even  better  than  the  best  grade  of  cotton.  The  pro- 
cess for  washing  them  most  successfully  is  very  simple. 
Soak  them  half  an  hour  in  a  tub  of  warm  rain  water,  in 
which  a  small  piece  of  soap  has  been  dissolved  Then  stir 
and  punch  them  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  with  a  smooth  stick. 
This  is  a  better  way  than  rubbing  on  the  washboard.  Do 
not  wring,  but  drain  them  thoroughly  by  laying  them  on 
sticks  placed  across  the  top  of  the  tub.  Rinse  twice,  letting 
them  soak  in  each  clear  water  fifteen  minutes,  at  least  ;  drain 
and  dry,  and  I  assure  you  they  will  look  well,  and  be  pure 
and  clean.  When  they  are  about  two-thirds  dry,  take  hold 
of  the  lower  edges  as  they  hang  upon  the  line,  and  shake 
them  thoroughly.  This  tends  to  make  them  light  and  puffy. 
Quilts  may  be  washed  in  the  same  way.  This  manner  of 
washing  bedclothes  is  simple  and  easy  and  there  is  no  ex- 
cuse for  its  being  neglected.  I  am  sorry  to  say  a  clean, 
sweet  bed  is  an  exception  the  world  over. 

Every  garment  worn  during  the  day  should  be  removed 
at  night.  The  night-gown  should  also  have  a  fair  chance 
for  airing  during  the  day.  The  habit  some  people  have  of 
folding  the  gown  and  placing  it  under  the  pillow  in  the  morn- 
ing should  be  discontinued.  Canton  flannel  gowns  are  best 
for  winter.  Every  one  can  afford  them.  Make  them  plain, 
and  the  washing  and  ironing  will  be  a  light  task.  The  body 
and  limbs  should  be  entirely  free  from  ligatures  and  com- 
pressions of  all  kinds,  during  sleep.  The  circulation  and 
respiration  should  be  perfectly  free. 

Ventilation  is  another  important  item.  It  is  an  error  to 
suppose  that  fresh  air  is  essential  only  during  the  warm  sea- 
son of  the  year.  It  is  just  as  necessary  to  our  well  being, 
physically  and  mentally,  in  winter  as  in  summer.  However, 
the  volume  of  fresh  air  required  in  cold  weather  is  not  so 
great  on  account  of  its  being  more  highly  oxygenated,  but 
we  need  it  in  due  proportion.  Impure  air  vitiates  the  blood, 
and  is  just  as  detrimental  to  health  as  bad  food.  It  actually 
poisons  us  slowly,  seriously,  fearfully,  and  fatally.  The 
carbonic  acid  in  an  ill-ventilated  room  does  not  do  its  fatal 
work  very  speedily,  but  it  does  it  surely. 


425 

Dry  Beds.  CARE  OF  BEDS.  Death  in  the  Bedroom. 

A  very  convenient  and  effectual  way  to  ventilate  a  room 
is  to  raise  one  window  as  high  as  you  desire  and  lower  the 
top  sash  of  another,  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  room  if  pos- 
sible. If  there  be  but  one  window  in  the  room  open  it  at 
top  and  bottom.  Notwithstanding  the  necessity  of  pure  air, 
it  is  not  well  to  sleep  in  a  draught.  The  use  of  a  screen,  or 
a  soft  curtain  allowed  to  fall  loosely  over  the  open  window, 
is  a  good  protection. 

It  is  necessary  to  health  that  the  beds  be  kept  perfectly 
dry.  Many  hard  colds,  and,  indeed,  many  deaths,  result 
from  sleeping  in  damp  beds.  People  with  weak  lungs  quickly 
feel  the  effects  of  them. 

Often  in  traveling  it  has  been  my  lot  to  occupy  the 
"  spare  bed,"  which  I  have  always  examined.  It  is  easy 
to  diagnose  the  dampness,  but  to  tell  what  the  result  of 
sleeping  therein  may  foe  is  far  more  difficult.  More  than 
once  I  have. been  compelled  to  call  for  an  extra  comforter, 
hoping  to  get  one  that  had  been  in  use  and  was  free  from 
dampness.  I  would  wrap  it  about  me  before  retiring,  and 
thus  protect  myself  to  some  extent  from  the  cold,  musty 
covers  of  the  "  spare  bed."  I  think  we  are  justified  in  closely 
questioning  the  bed  we  are  to  occupy.  After  a  bed  has  been 
unused  for  a  few  weeks,  or  even  a  few  days,  during  the 
damp  season  of  the  year,  the  bedding  should  be  removed 
and  thoroughly  dried  by  the  fire  before  being  slept  in. 

There  is  one  more  point  to  which  I  wish  to  call  your  at- 
tention, and  that  is  the  habit  some  people  have  of  leaving 
the  unemptied  night  vessel  in  the  room  a  portion  of  the  day. 
The  vapors  that  arise  from  urine  after  it  has  stood  a  short 
time  in  the  open  air  are  absolutely  poisonous  and  disease- 
breeding.  The  night  vessel  is  used  on  retiring  and  in  more 
than  half  the  sleeping  rooms  they  are  not  provided  with 
a  cover,  and  all  night  long  the  noxious  gases  are  allowed  to 
escape  for  the  occupant  of  the  room  to  take  into  his  system 
at  every  breath.  Hundreds  of  people  die  yearly  of  con- 
sumption whose  premature  death  is  caused  by  breathing 
poisonous  emanations  from  the  night  vessel.  Children 
ought  never  to  be  allowed  to  sleep  in  bedding  that  has  been 
saturated  with  urine  and  simply  dried  without  washing. 

Surely,  unless  great  care  is  exercised,  there  is  sickness 
and  death  in  the  bedroom.  ELIZA  H.  STAIR. 

To  SUN  FEATHER  BEDS  AND  PILLOWS. 
Do  not  put  them  into  the  hot  sunshine  ;  the  odor  is  bad. 


426 

Comforter  Shams.  CARE  OF  LAMPS.  Trimming  Lamps. 

Shake  them  well  and  put  them  in  an  airy  place  in  the  shade, 
where  they  will  get  plenty  of  light  and  the  wind  can  blow 
over  them.  Turn  them  during  the  day. 

COMFORTER  SHAMS. 

Mrs.  Orlena  S.  Matteson,  Chicago. 

Fold  a  breadth  of  prints  or  muslin  as  long  as  the  width 
of  the  comforter  over  the  end  next  the  face,  fastening  the 
edges  with  safety-pins  or  a  running  baste.  When  soiled  it 
is  easily  taken  off  and  washed.- 


CAKE  OF  LAMPS. 


If  good  kerosene  is  properly  used,  there  is  no  more  danger 
from  it  than  in  the  use  of  "  the  light  of  other  days  '  —  the 
old-fashioned  tallow  candle.  But  the  daily  chronicles  of 
horrible  accidents  from  carlessness  in  its  use  should  serve  as 
a  warning  to  all.  A  few  hints  on  lamps  and  the  care  of 
them  may  not  come  amiss. 

Never  fill  a  lamp  that  is  lighted. 

Do  not  use  kerosene  as  a  fire-kindler. 

Glass  lamps  should  not  be  used  to  carry  around  the  house. 

Do  not  fill  lamps  quite  full.  If  they  are  filled  full  and 
brought  into  a  warm  room  the  heat  will  expand  the  oil  and 
cause  it  to  run  over.  Allow  a  little  space,  so  as  to  avoid  this 
apparent  leaking  of  the  lamp. 

Attend  to  lamps  in  the  early  part  of  the  day.  Rather 
put  off  almost  any  other  part  of  the  housework  than  this. 

Give  lamp-burners  a  thorough  washing  in  strong  hot  suds 
when  they  become  clogged  up. 

Do  not  fill  a  lamp  near  a  fire.  After  filling,  wipe  off  very 
clean  with  a  cloth  kept  for  that  purpose. 

The  oil  accumulating  in  the  cup  under  the  wick  in  a  stu- 
dent lamp  should  "be  poured  out  once  a  week. 

Do  not  allow  lamp-cloths  that  are  saturated  with  oil  to 
accumulate  and  lie  around  in  close  contact  for  any  great 
length  of  time.  They  are  liable  to  cause  spontaneous  com- 
bustion. Better  to  burn  them  every  few  weeks. 

To  TRIM  A  LAMP. 

Take  off  the  chimney,  raise  the  cap  of  the  burner,  and 
turn  up  the  wick  a  very  little.  To  secure  the  best  light  and 
fewest  breakages  of  chimneys,  cut  the  wick  straight  across, 


_  427 

Wash-Day.  THE  LAUNDRY.  "  Biue  Monday.' 

parallel  with  the  top  of  the  burner.     Do  not  round  the  cor- 
ners.    Use  a  pair  of  sharp  scissors. 


THE  LAVJ*<t><KY. 


WASH-DAY. 

To  do  washing  the  easiest  and  best,  it  is  conceded  by  all 
that  the  clothes  should  be  put  to  soak  over  night.  On 
Monday  it  takes  all  of  the  forenoon  in  most  families  to  put 
things  to  rights  and  to  get  something  cooked.  Besides,  it 
is  not  pleasant  to  change  one's  dress  (either  mistress  or  girl) 
on  Sunday  evening  and  work  at  the  soiled  clothes  for  an  hour. 
It  either  involves  staying  home  from  church,  or  working 
late  after  one  does  get  home,  to  say  nothing  of  the  "  Sab- 
bath Day"  view  of  it,  or  any  unpleasant  feature  of  the 
case. 

There  are  many  new  soaps  now  manufactured  that  give 
excellent  satisfaction,  requiring  no  boiling  of  the  clothes. 
To  persons  who  use  such,  let  me  recommend  to  put  the 
clothes  to  soak  in  a  warm  suds  after  dinner  Monday.  After 
supper,  wring  them  through  the  wringer  and  put  into  clean 
suds. 

On  Tuesday  morning  the  washing  is  a  quick  job,  it  being 
necessary  only  to  rub  lightly  and  rinse  thoroughly. 

Sprinkle  and  fold  the  clothes  Tuesday  evening,  and  iron 
Wednesday  forenoon.  If  that  does  not  finish,  leave  the  rest 
for  Thursday  forenoon. 

This  gives  time  for  the  other  housework,  and  saves  one 
from  that  intensely  tired  feeling  which  is  sure  to  follow  a 
Monday's  washing  and  Tuesday's  ironing  at  all  hazards. 

So  let  "  Blue  Monday"  be  a  thing  of  the  past,  and  rejoice 
for  the  light  that  is  given  enabling  the  accomplishment 
of  so-called  household  drudgery  with  comparative  ease. 

To  those  who  prefer  to  boil  their  clothes,  I  give  two  dif- 
ferent recipes  for  washing  preparations,  both  of  which  I 
know  to  be  just  what  they  are  represented  to  be.  The 
second  one  I  have  used  for  several  years  past.  It  does  no 
better  service  than  the  fluid,  which  I  also  used  for  some 
time,  but  I  like  a  soap  rather  better  than  a  fluid.  A  preju- 
dice exists  in  many  housekeepers  against  boiling  clothes  in 
the  dirt.  But  if  you  will  throw  your  prejudice  to  the  winds, 


428 

Washing  Fluid. THE  LAUNDRY. Magic  Soap. 

and  try  this  way  for  one  month,  you  will  never  go  back  to 
the  old  way.  The  question  is  asked :  Does  it  rot  the 
clothes?  Emphatically,  it  does  not.  It  rather  saves  them. 
More  clothes  are  worn  out  on  the  washboard  than  on  the 
back.  As  my  family  increased  in  size,  I  adopted  this  method 
with  the  Magic  washing  soap.  I  put  them  to  soak  over 
night  in  two  tubs — the  fine  ones  together  and  the  coarse  to- 
gether— and  sometimes,  if  I  had  a  large  bed  washing,  put 
the  sheets  and  pillow-cases  in  a  third  tub.  I  use  the  soap 
according  to  directions — a  cup  to  a  pail  of  water.  Cover  all 
closely.  In  the  morning  I  rub  lightly  on  a  board  out  of  the 
water  they  are  soaking  in,  and  put  on  to  boil.  Rinse  and 
hang  out.  I  do  this,  in  order  to  have  cleaner  suds  for  my 
large  washings  of  calico  clothes.  In  doing  this,  you  do  not 
have  to  wait  to  heat  water,  and  can  easily  get  one  boiler  full 
done  before  breakfast.  They  look  whiter,  and  wash  so 
much  easier  than  the  old  way,  that  it  is  a  very  great  labor- 
saver.  To  make  sure  of  having  the  water  warm,  you  may 
turn  a  kettle  of  hot  water  over  the  clothes  after  they  are 
well  put  to  soak.  Everyone  knows  the  whitening  powers  of 
borax.  I  have  done  a  washing  in  this  way,  and  finished 
at  noon,  when  it  would  have  taken  a  washerwoman  all  day, 
the  old  way,  if  she  had  worked  constantly  and  faithfully. 

EXCELLENT  WASHING  FLUID. 

Mrs.  M.  F.  Walker,  Chicago. 

Take  I  pound  potash  (it  comes  in  cans),  I  ounce  salts 
of  tartar,  and  I  ounce  liquid  ammonia.  Put  the  salts  of 
tartar  and  potash  in  a  gallon  of  water  on  the  stove,  in  any 
convenient  kettle.  It  will  dissolve  very  soon.  Then  set  it 
off,  let  cool,  and  add  the  ammonia.  Cork  tightly  in  a  jug. 
Soak  the  soiled  clothes  over  night.  In  the  morning  make  a 
strong  suds  of  cold  water,  add  a  cup  of  the  fluid  to  TO  or  12 
gallons,  put  in  clothes  to  nearly  fill  the  boiler,  let  heat  grad- 
ually and  boil  10  minutes.  Take  out,  rub  lightly,  rinse,  blue, 
and  hang  out.  Use  less  fluid  with  rain  water. 

The  second  recipe  is  called 

MAGIC  WASHING  SOAP. 

To  5  gallons  water  (if  hard  cleanse  it),  add  5  pounds  com- 
mon bar  soap,  cut  up  into  small  pieces  and  dissolve  over  a 
moderate  fire,  then  add  12  ounces  borax  and  16  ounces  sal 
soda  ;  stir  frequently  while  dissolving,  and  when  thoroughly 
incorporated  pour  into  a  convenient  vessel  to  cool  ;  stir 


429 

Blueing.  THE  LAUNDRY.  Enamel. 

frequently  while  cooling,  and  it  is  done.  Should  you 
wish  to  use  good  soft  soap,  from  10  to  15  pounds  will 
be  required,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  soap,  with 
from  2\  to  3j  gallons  of  water  ;  the  thicker  the  soap  the  less, 
but  more  water  ;  the  thinner  the  soap  the  more  of  it,  but 
less  water,  with  12  ounces  each  borax  and  sal  soda  ;  in  the 
case  of  soft  soap,  dissolve  the  borax  and  sal  soda  first  in 
water  and  then  add  the  soap.  To  use,  heat  as  much  soft 
water  as  will  just  cover  the  white  clothing;  a  little  more 
than  blood  warm.  To  each  pail  of  water  add  I  cup  of  the 
Magic  soap  ;  dissolve  well ;  moisten  the  dirty  streaks  of 
your  clothes,  rub  on  a  little  soap,  and  spread  them  in  your 
tub,  push  down  under  the  water  and  spread  a  thick  cloth 
over  your  tub  to  keep  in  the  warmth  as  much  as  possible  ; 
in  about  5  minutes  catch  the  clothes  by  one  edge,  raise  them 
up  and  down  once  or  twice,  then  turn  them  over  entirely  ; 
repeat  the  same  operation  two  or  three  times  ;  soak  from  20 
to  30  minutes,  as  you  please  ;  in  the  meantime  have  your 
boiling  suds  ready,  by  adding  J  a  cup  of  soap  to  each  pail 

01  water  needed  ;  now  wring  your  clothes  moderately  from 
the   soaking  water,  overhaul  them,-  rub  some  soap  on   the 
dirty   streaks,  or   places,  if  any  remain  ;  roll  them  up  and 
put  them  to  boil  or  simmer,  stirring  and  turning  occasionally 
for  15  minutes  (no  longer,  remember),  rinse  in  2  waters,  and 
hang  up  to  dry  ;  no  bleaching  or  washboards  are  needed. 
The  above  method  of  washing  positively  will  not  injure  the 
clothes.     Now   use    your   boiling    suds    for    washing    your 
colored  clothes  and  save  by  it.     Be  sure  your  soap,  borax, 
and  sal  soda  are  thoroughly  dissolved. 

IMPERIAL  STAR  BLUEING. 

Take  best  Prussian  blue,  pulverized,  I  ounce  ;  oxalic  acid, 
also  pulverized,  J  ounce  ;  soft  water,  i  quart  ;  mix.  The 
acid  dissolves  the  blue  and  holds  it  evenly  in  the  water. 
One  or  2  tablespoons  of  it  to  a  tub  of  water,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  wash.  This  is  far  preferable  to  the  blueing 
sold  in  stores,  and  is  much  cheaper. 

To  prevent  common  blueing  from  spotting  the  clothes, 
dissolve  the  blueing  in  warm  water  and  have  the  blueing 
water  a  little  warm. 

BRITISH    ENAMEL    FOR  SHIRT  BOSOMS. 
Melt  together,  with  a  gentle  heat,  I  ounce  white  wax  and 

2  ounces  spermaceti.     Prepare    your    boiled  starch    in   the 


13Q . 

Starch.  THE  LAUNDRY.  Shirts, 

usual  way,  put  into  each  pint  a  piece  of  British  Enamel  the 
size  of  a  large  pea.  It  will  give  your  clothes  a  beautiful 
polish. 

STARCHING  SHIRTS. 

WITH    COLD    STARCH. 

Allow  a  teaspoon  of  starch  for  each  shirt.  Use  only 
enough  water  to  wet  the  bosom,  wristbands,  and  neckband 
well.  Dip  in,  squeeze  out,  roll  up,  and  iron  in  fifteen  minutes, 
or  let  it  lie  longer  if  desired. 

WITH    HOT    STARCH. 

Dissolve  2  tablespoons  raw  starch  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Pour  on  boiling  water  till  of  the  consistence  of  paste. 
Cook  several  minutes.  Many  laundresses  make  their  starch 
early  and  leave  it  to  cook  slowly  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  for  2  hours  or  more.  Others  just  merely  cook  it 
through.  Put  in  a  piece  of  enamel  according  to  directions, 
or  a  few  shavings  from  a  sperm  candle.  In  the  absence  of 
these  use  a  tablespoon  of  kerosene  to  2  quarts  of  starch. 
If  the  clothes  are  dry,  make  the  starch  quite  thin.  Bear  in 
mind  that  the  hotter  it  is,  the  better  the  garment  will  iron 
and  the  stififer  it  will  be.  Dip  the  bosom  in  and  rub  the 
starch  through  and  through  with  the  fingers.  Pat  it  hard 
with  the  hand  and  be  sure  that  every  thread  is  wet  with  it. 
Treat  the  neckband  and  wristbands  the  same  way.  Let 
dry  thoroughly.  Then  take  a  teaspoon  of  raw  starch  in  a 
quart  of  cold  water.  When  well  dissolved,  dip  the  starched 
parts  in  quickly,  squeeze  out,  lay  smoothly,  and  roll  up  hard. 
They  may  be  ironed  in  an  hour  or  two.  Some  shirt-ironers 
dip  in  clear  cold  water,  and  some,  again,  in  clear  hot  water, 
and  all  with  equally  good  results.  This  can  only_be  deter- 
mined by  experimenting. 

IRONING  A  SHIRT. 

First  iron  the  back,  then  the  shoulder-pieces,  then  the 
neckband.  Be  very  sure  to  iron  the  band  on  both  sides 
equally  smooth,  that  it  may  not  irritate  the  neck  of  the 
wearer.  Next,  iron  the  sleeves.  Then  lay  the  wristbands 
out  flat,  rub  with  a  clean  white  cloth,  slightly  dampened, 
and  iron  smoothly  on  both  sides,  finishing  with  the  right 
side.  Next,  iron  the  front.  If  you  take  a  flat-iron  that  is 
just  the  right  heat  for  the  bosom,  iron  that  before  you  do  the 
plain  front.  Stretch  the  bosom  on  the  shirt-board.  Be 
very  particular  to  pull  it  crosswise  as-  well  as  lengthwise,  to 
prevent  wrinkles  at  the  neck.  Rub  with  a  cloth  to  get  off 


43^ 

Holders.  THE  LAUNDRY.  Hints. 

hits  of  starch  that  may   stick  to   it.     Iron   carefully  with  a 
moderately-heated  iron. 

If  little  blisters  appear,  dip  the  finger  in  water  and  dampen 
clear  through.  It  will  then  come  out  on  being  ironed  over, 
provided  the  starch  has  been  rubbed  entirely  through.  If  it 
has  not,  then  the  blister  will  remain  and  there  is  no  remedy 
for  it.  If  a  smirch  or  spot  from  a  rusty  or  greasy  iron  ap- 
pears on  a  polished  bosom,  do  not  give  up  and  throw  the 
garment  into  the  wash,  but  immerse  the  bosom  quickly  in 
hot  water,  squeeze  dry,  stretch  on  the  board,  rub  over  with 
a  clean  dry  cloth,  and  iron  again.  But  first  take  the  iron 
and  rub  well  in  salt  on  a  brown  paper — especially  the  point 
and  edges — and  then  with  a  little  beeswax,  wiping  with  a 
dry  cloth.  A  polishing-iron  should  be  wrapped  in  fine  paper 
and  put  away  carefully  after  each  ironing. 

FOLDING  A  SHIRT. 

First  roll  the  wristbands  around  so  they  will  shape  them- 
selves to  the  wrist.  It  is  much  nicer  than  to  leave  them  open 
and  flat.  Then  lay  the  shirt  on  the  table,  bosom  side  down. 
Fold  a  pleat  the  whole  length  of  the  back,  where  the  open- 
ing is  in  the  back,  in  order  to  make  the  back  and  front  the 
same  width.  Then  fold  one  sleeve  over  from  the  shoulder, 
lap  that  side  of  the  shirt  the  whole  length  from  the  edge 
of  the  bosom  over  towards  the  back.  Do  the  other  sleeve 
and  side  the  same  way.  Iron  the  folds  to  make  it  look 
more  neatly.  Then  double  the  bottom  of  the  shirt  up  to 
the  neck,  folding  just  below  the  bosom,  and  with  the  bosom 
outside.  Iron  the  fold,  and  it  is  done.  A  quick  drying  by- 
the  fire  will  make  the  bosom  stiffen 

HOLDERS. 

Old  stocking-legs  or  knit  underwear  put  together  evenly, 
as  many  thicknesses  as  you  wish,  make  the  nicest  holders 
possible,  covered  with  calico.  Run  them  through  diagonally 
from  corner  to  corner,  and  sew  a  loop  on.  Have  several  of 
them  hung  on  a  convenient  nail  near  the  stove.  Their 
help  is  legion. 

LAUNDRY  HINTS. 

To  preserve  wash-tubs,  do  not  put  water  inside  the  tub 
when  the  washing  is  done,  but  turn  it  bottom  side  up  and 
cover  the  bottom  with  water.  It  will  be  found  that  it  pre- 
vents the  staves  spreading  apart  at  the  top. 

To  clean  the  rollers  of  a  wringer,  rub  with  kerosene  oil. 


Flannels.  THE  LAUNDRY  Calico. 

To  make  a  clothes-line  pliable,  boil  an  hour  or  two 
before  you  use  it.  Let  it  dry  in  a  warm  room,  and  do  not 
let  it  kink. 

As  soon  as  the  ironing  is  done  for  the  day  the  flat-irons 
should  be  taken  off  the  stove.  To  leave  them  on  without 
using  takes  the  temper  out  of  them. 

To  clean  smoothing-irons,  Mrs.  L.  V.  Humble,  Clinton, 
Louisiana,  says :  While  hot,  rub  them  on  green  cedar. 

FLANNELS. 

Flannels  may  be  washed  either  in  warm  or  cold  water. 
Soap  may  be  used  on  them  as  on  other  clothes.  Rinse  in 
water,  the  same  temperature  as  the  wash-water.  Put 
through  the  wringer  and  hang  up.  It  is  better  to  take  them 
from  the  line  before  they  are  quite  dry,  and  roll  up  for  iron- 
ing. In  case  they  become  entirely  dry,  roll  them  up  in 
dampened  cloths  instead  of  sprinkling  the  flannels  directly. 
With  these  cautions  heeded,  flannels  need  not  be  shrunken 
in  washing. 

BLANKETS. 

Dissolve  one-half  bar  of  soap  in  water.  Then  add  I  table- 
spoon borax  and  2  of  ammonia.  Add  the  mixture  to  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  water  (already  softened  with  I  tablespoon 
borax)  to  cover  2  blankets.  Let  the  blankets  remain  in  the 
suds  i  hour,  without  rubbing.  Rinse  thoroughly  and  hang 
up,  without  wringing.  The  absence  of  rubbing  and  wring- 
ing prevents  the  hardness  and  shrinking  of  the  old  process. 

TOWELS  WITH  COLORED  BORDERS. 

Soak  the  towels  in  a  pail  of  cold  water  containing  i  tea- 
spoon sugar  of  lead  10  minutes.  To  make  the  colors  look 
clear  and  bright,  use  pulverized  borax  in  the  wash-water, 
very  little  soap,  and  no  soda. 

To  MAKE  BLUE  A  FAST  COLOR. 

Put  an  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  into  a  pail  ot  water,  and 
soak  the  garment  for  2  hours.  Let  dry,  then  wash  and  iron. 

LINEN  SUITS. 

Fill  a  pail  with  old,  dry  hay ;  put  scalding  water  on  it 
and  let  it  stand  until  the  water  is  colored  ;  then  wash  the 
linen  in  it,  and  it  will  look  as  nice  as  new. 

CALICO  LIABLE  TO  FADE. 

Mrs.    Simmons. 

If  you  have  dark  calico  to  wash  that  you  fear  will  fade  or 


433 

Woolen  Pants.  THE  LAUNDRY.  Flour  Starch. 

the  colors  run,  put  it  in  a  pail  and  pour  boiling"  water  on. 
Let  stand  till  cool  enough  to  wring  out.  Then  wash  like 
any  other.  It  is  better  to  wash  such  a  garment  before  it 
gets  very  badly  soiled,  or  the  hot  water  might  set  the  dirt. 

WOOLEN  PANTS. 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Callahan. 

When  woolen  pants  are  washed,  hang  without  wringing  ; 
when  dry,  fold  as  they  are  folded  when  new,  and  wring  a 
towel  out  of  water  and  place  over  the  pants  and  iron  with,  a 
hot  iron.  When  the  towel  is  dry  the  pants  will  be  smooth. 

HOSE. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  White,  Peoria,  111. 

In  washing  stockings  which  require  care,  pass  them 
through  the  wringer  a  second  time  wrapped  in  a  towel.  They 
will  then  be  so  dry  that  the  colors  will  not  run. 

CHAMOIS-SKIN. 

Put  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  warm  water  and  wash  with  soap 
like  any  other  garment. 

WASHING  RED  TABLE-LINEN. 

Wash  in  clear,  tepid  water,  in  which  a  tablespoon  of  pow- 
dered borax  has  been  dissolved  (to  half  a  tub  of  water). 
Use  but  little  soap  ;  rinse  in  tepid  water  into  which  has 
been  stirred  enough  boiled  starch  to  stiffen  a  very  little. 
Dry  in  the  shade.  Roll  up,  while  a  little  damp,  for  ironing. 

To  STIFFEN  BLACK  WASH-GOODS. 

Use  glue  instead  of  starch  for  stiffening  black  dresses.  It 
makes  them  shine  like  new  and  leaves  no  white  spots  as 
starch  does.  Or  common  flour  starch  colored  with  cold 
coffee  answers  very  nicely. 

COFFEE  STARCH. 

For  dark  prints  or  percales,  mix  2  tablespoons  raw  starch 
with  cold  water,  smoothly.  Stir  into  a  pint  of  clear,  hot 
coffee,  that  has  been  strained.  Boil  about  10  minutes,  add 
a  bit  of  enamel  or  a  teaspoon  of  kerosene. 

FLOUR  STARCH. 

Stir  3  tablespoons  flour  made  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water, 
into  i  quart  of  boiling  water.     Keep  stirring  until  it  boils. 
*53 


434 

Removing  Tar.  THE  LAUNDRY.  Iron  Rust. 

and   then  for  5  minutes  longer.     Strain  through    a   coarse 
strainer  or  crash  towel. 

REMOVING  TAR. 

Rub  the  spot  with  melted  lard ;  then  wash  with  soap  and 
water.  Applies  to  hands  or  clothing. 

REMOVING  FRUIT-STAINS. 

Pour  boiling  water  through  the  stains,  and  repeat  several 
times  before  putting  in  soap-suds.  If  this  does  not  remove 
them,  dip  in  javelle-water. 

JAVELLE-WATER. 

Dissolve  I  pound  sal  soda  and  \  pound  chloride  of  lime 
in  2  quarts  boiling  water.  Let  cool  and  add  2  quarts  cold 
water.  Soft  water  should  be  used. 

REMOVING  GREASE  SPOTS. 

Put  half  a  teaspoon  of  hartshorn  to  half  a  teaspoon  of 
alcohol  ;  wet  a  bit  of  woolen  cloth  or  soft  sponge  in  it  and 
rub  and  soak  the  spot  with  it,  and  the  grease,  if  freshly 
dropped,  will  disappear.  If  the  spot  is  of  long  standing, 
it  may  require  several  applications.  In  woolen  or  cotton, 
the  spot  may  be  rubbed  when  the  liquid  is  applied  and  also 
in  black  silk,  though  not  hard.  But  with  light  or  colored 
silk,  wet  the  spot  with  the  cloth  or  sponge  with  which  the 
hartshorn  is  put  on,  patting  it  lightly.  Rubbing  silk,  par- 
ticularly colored  silk,  is  apt  to  leave  a  whitish  spot,  almost 
as  disagreeable  as  the  grease  spot. 

REMOVING  MILDEW  AND  BLEACHING. 
Dissolve  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  chloride  of  lime  in  a 
pail  of  water.  Dip  in  the  goods  and  spread  out  to  dry 
in  the  hot  sun  without  wringing.  When  dry,  repeat  the 
process.  This  will  take  out  the  worst  case  of  mildew  and 
many  other  stains.  The  lime  must  be  well  dissolved. 
Cloth  may  also  be  bleached  beautifully  by  hanging  on  a 
line  when  the  sun  shines  and  snow  is  on  the  ground.  Snow 
bleaches  more  rapidly  than  grass. 

IRON  RUST. 

.Lemon  juice  and  salt  mixed  together  and  put  on  iron 
rust  will  take  it  out.  Keep  it  in  the  sun.  If  one  applica- 
tion does  not  do  it,  try  another.  A  solution  of  oxalic  acid 
in  water  will  also  remove  iron  rust. 


435^ 

Ink  Stains.  THE  LAUNDRY.  Laces. 

INK  STAINS. 

Mrs.  A.  R.  Strange,  Bowling  Green,  Kentucky,  says : 
Dip  the  garment  in  apple  vinegar  and  rub  bi-carbonate  of 
soda  over  it. 

RENEWING  BLACK  WOOLEN  GOODS. 
Have  the  articles  well  cleansed,  then  dip  in  a  very 
strong  blueing  water.  Hang  up  to  dry  without  wringing. 
When  nearly  dry,  press  on  the  side  intended  for  the  wrong 
side,  and  you  will  be  astonished  at  the  renovation  that  has 
taken  place. 

RENOVATING    BLACK  SILK. 

Brush  and  wipe  off  thoroughly  with  a  cloth  ;  lay  flat 
on  a  table  and  sponge  with  hot  coffee  strained  through 
muslin.  Sponge  it  on  the  side  intended  for  the  right  side  ; 
then  pin  to  a  sheet  stretched  on  the  carpet  until  it  dries. 
Do  not  touch  with  an  iron. 

Rub  clear  ammonia  on  silk  that  is  discolored  from  per- 
spiration. It  will  also  restore  the  color  of  goods,  particularly 
black,  when  the  color  has  been  destroyed  by  lemon  juice. 

WHITE  CLOTHES. 

In  putting  away  white  clothes  in  the  fall,  have  the  starch 
washed  out  and  make  them  very  blue.  This  will  keep  them 
from  getting  yellow. 

CLEANING  WHITE  FUR. 

Take  a  clean  piece  of  flannel,  and  with  some  heated  bran 
rub  the  fur  well,  when  it  will  be  quite  renewed.  The  bran 
should  be  heated  in  a  moderate  oven,  for  a  hot  oven  will 
scorch  and  brown  the  fur.  Oatmeal  with  no  husks  is  prefer- 
able to  bran.  Dried  flour  will  also  answer. 

LACE  MITTS. 

May    Owens. 

If  you  want  to  color  white  lace  mitts  cream,  wash  the 
mitts  with  toilet  soap,  put  them  into  a  cup  of  cold  coffee  and 
let  them  stay  about  half  a  day.  Do  not  iron  them,  but  put 
them  on  your  hands  and  wear  till  they  are  dry. 

CLEANING  LACES. 

Mrs.  N.  W.  Hammond,  Clear  Lake,  Iowa. 

Spread  on  a  clean  cloth  a  mixture  of  dry  magnesia  and 
baking  powder.  Lay  the  lace  flat  on  it.  Cover  with  the 


436 

Laws.  THE  LAUNDRY  Hard  Soap. 

mixture.  Roll  up  for  a  few  days.  Then  take  a  dry,  soft 
nail  or  tooth-brush  and  brush  well,  especially  the  soiled 
spots.  Shake  out  and  the  result  will  be  more  than  you 
anticipate.  White  Shetland  shawls  may  be  "  dry  "  rubbed 
in  flour  and  cleaned  beautifully. 

WHITE  SPANISH  LACE. 

Miss  Hattie  E.  Crump,  Lake  Mills,  Wis. 

Wash  the  lace  in  gasoline,  rubbing  in  the  hands  as  much 
as  the  delicacy  of  the  fabric  will  allow.  It  needs  no  rinsing 
as  the  gasoline  evaporates  very  quickly.  Do  not  press. 
Too  much  care  cannot  be  exercised  in  the  use  of  gasoline. 
Its  explosive  qualities  are  so  very  great.  Do  not  use  it  after 
night,  or  near  a  stove. 

DOING  UP  LACE  COLLARS. 

Starch  in  hot  starch  and  pull  in  shape  on  a  soft  white 
flannel.  When  nearly  dry,  rub  over  with  a  warm  iron — not 
hot — and  lay  in  a  paper  in  the  sun  or  warm  oven.  Then 
shape  the  edge  with  the  ringers. 

BLACK  LACE. 

One  cup  coffee  and  I  tablespoon  ammonia.  Wash  in  it, 
dip  in  skim  milk,  and  pin  it  out  on  a  pillow  until  dry. 

IMPROVEMENT  IN  SOAP. 

H.  C.  Strong,  Chicago. 

Add  sulphate  of  lime  to  the  usual  ingredients.  The  pro- 
portions of  the  sulphate  vary  according  to  the  quality  of 
soap  to  be  produced.  About  |  pound  is  sufficient  for  I  ton 
of  best  soap,  whereas,  in  common  or  highly-liquored  soap  6 
or  8  pounds  of  it  may  be  used  to  advantage.  If  25  pounds 
of  soap  are  made,  put  in  a  teaspoon  of  sulphate.  Soap  made 
with  this  addition  becomes  hardened,  keeps  dry,  and  is  not 
liable  to  shrink  while  in  water.  Its  durability  is  increased 
and  it  does  not  wear  or  waste  away  before  its  cleansing 
properties  are  brought  into  action. 

HARD  SOAP. 

Pour  4  gallons  boiling  water  over  6  pounds  of  sal  soda  and 
3  pounds  unslaked  lime.  Stir  well  and  let  settle  until  per- 
fectly clear.  It  is  better  to  let  it  stand  all  night,  as  it  takes 
some  time  for  the  sediment  to  settle.  When  clear,  strain  the 
water,  put  6  pounds  of  fat  with  it  and  boil  for  2  hours,  stirring 
it  most  of  the  time.  If  it  does  not  seem  thin  enough,  put 


437 

Hard  Soap.  THE  LAUNDRY.  White  Soap. 


another  gallon  of  water  on  the  grounds,  stir  and  drain  off, 
and  add  as  is  wanted  to  the  boiling  mixture.  Its  thickness 
can  be  tried  by  occasionally  putting  a  little  on  a  plate  to 
cool.  Stir  in  a  handful  of  salt  just  before  taking  off  the 
fire.  Have  a  tub  ready  soaked  to  prevent  the  soap  from 
sticking,  pour  it  in  and  let  it  stand  until  solid,  and  you  will 
have  40  pounds  nice  white  soap. 

Hard  Soap. 

Five  gallons  rain  water,  5  pounds  soda  ash,  3  pounds 
grease,  2\  pounds  unslaked  lime.  Boil  3  or  4  hours  until  the 
grease  dissolves. 

MRS.  MOODY'S  DETERSIVE  SOAP. 

Shave  fine  half  a  bar  of  common  washing  soap.  Dis- 
solve in  I  quart  of  boiling  water.  Add  2  tablespoons  each 
of  turpentine  and  alcohol.  It  is  a  great  aid  in  house  clean^. 
ing — will  remove  grease  or  dirt  easily. 

OX-GALL  SOAP. 

Mrs.  Henry  Ward  Beecher. 

Ox-gall  soap  is  an  excellent  article  to  use  in  cleansing 
woolens,  silks,  or  fine  prints  liable  to  fade.  To  make  it,  take 
i  pint  of  gall,  cut  into  it  2  pounds  of  common  bar  soap 
very  fine,  and  add  I  quart  boiling  soft  water.  Boil  slowly, 
stirring  occasionally  until  well  mixed,  then  pour  into  a  flat 
vessel,  and  when  cold  cut  into  pieces  to  dry.  When  using, 
make  a  suds  of  it,  but  do  not  rub  it  on  the  article  to  be 
washed. 

TRANSPARENT  SOAP. 

Slice  6  pounds  nice  yellow  bar  soap  fine.  Put  into  a  brass 
or  tin  kettle  with  \  gallon  alcohol  and  heat  gradually  over  a 
slow  fire,  stirring  till  all  is  dissolved.  Then  add  I  ounce 
sassafras  essence  and  stir  until  well  mixed.  Pou-r  into  pans 
I \  inches  deep,  let  get  cold,  and  cut  into  square  bars 

SHAVING  SOAP. 

Castile  soap,  J  pound,  white  bar  soap,  ij  pounds,  beef's 
gall,  i  pint,  spirits  of  turpentine,  \  gill,  rain  water,  I  pint. 
Shave  the  soap  fine,  put  ingredients  all  together  and  boil  5 
minutes  after  the  soap  is  dissolved.  Stir  all  the  time. 
Scent  with  oil  of  rose  or  any  other  preferred. 

WHITE  SOAP. 
Five   pounds  hard  soap,    i   quart   lye,  \   ounce  pearl-ash, 


438 

Soft  Soap.  THE  LAUNDRY  Renovating  Carpets. 

all  dissolved  on  the  stove,  then  add  \  pint  spirits  turpentine, 
i  gill   spirits  hartshorn.     Stir  well. 

GERMAN  YELLOW    SOAP. 

One  pound  tallow,  I  pound  sal  soda,  7  ounces  rosin, 
4  ounces  stone  lime,  I  ounce  palm  oil,  I  quart  soft  water. 
Put  soda,  lime  and  water  together  and  let  boil,  stirring  well. 
Then  let  settle,  and  pour  off  the  lye.  In  another  kettle 
melt  the  tallow,  rosin  and  palm  oil.  When  all  the  ingredi- 
ents are  hot,  mix  well  together. 

GOOD  SOFT  SOAP. 

Mix  10  pounds  potash  in  10  gallons  warm  soft  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  boil  it,  adding  6  pounds  grease. 
Put  all  in  a  barrel  and  add  1 5  gallons  soft  water. 

SOFT  SOAP  FROM  LYE. 

Put  the  ashes  in  a  barrel  or  hopper.  Pour  water  on 
every  day  and  keep  pouring  back  and  let  it  drain  through 
again,  or  boil  it  down  until  it  is  strong  enough  to  eat  a 
feather.  Then  put  in  the  grease  until  the  lye  will  not  take 
any  more.  Boil  together  till  thick  enough. 

SUN  SOAP,  OR  COLD  SOAP. 

Put  I  pound  of  cleansed  grease  to  each  gallon  of  lye 
strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  Set  in  the  sun  and  stir 
each  day  until  it  is  good  fair  soap. 

EUREKA  CLEANSING  FLUID. 

Mrs.  E.   E.    Bower. 

One  pint  deodorized  benzine,  I  ounce  alcohol,  I  ounce 
spirits  ammonia.  Shake  well  when  using.  Will  take  out 
grease  of  all  kinds  from  all  fabrics  without  injury  to  color. 
Apply  with  a  sponge  and  rub  well.  When  dry,  rub  over 
with  a  slightly  warm  iron.  It  is  good  for  renewing  all  black 
goods.  It  leaves  the  hands  soft  and  white. 

RENOVATING  CARPETS  AND  RUGS. 

Directions  for  making  one  gallon.  Take  I  pound  or  bar 
of  borax  soap,  shave  in  fine  pieces.  Dissolve  in  I  gallon  of 
boiling  water.  After  thoroughly  dissolved,  remove  from 
stove.  Let  stand  in  cool  place  for  5  minutes,  then  add 
sulphuric  ether,  i  ounce  ;  glycerine,  I  ounce  ;  alcohol,  I 
ounce  ;  aqua  ammonia,  No.  4  F.,  6  ounces.  Do  not  add  the 


439 

DYES.  Black. 


last  near  the  fire,  as  they  are  inflammable.     Use  same  as 
common  soap.     Also  good  for  cleaning  paint. 


(DYES. 


The  articles  to  be  colored  must  be  cleansed  entirely  from 
grease  before  coloring.  It  is  better  to  wet  them  in  clear 
water  before  dyeing.  Strain  the  dye  before  using. 

ANNATO. 

Five  ounces  annato  in  a  bag,  three  pails  of  strong  soap 
suds  or  weak  lye.  Dip  the  cloth  in  suds  previously  pre- 
pared. Then  put  into  the  dye  and  boil  until  it  takes  the 
strength  of  the  dye. 

BLACK. 

For  a  dress  with  overskirt,  3  ounces  extract  logwood,  ij 
ounces  blue  vitriol.  Dissolve  the  vitriol  in  water  and  the 
logwood  in  another  water.  Wet  the  goods  thoroughly  in 
warm  water  before  putting  into  the  vitriol-water.  Put  a 
piece  of  copperas  the  size  of  a  walnut  into  the  logwood  dye, 
and  when  the  dye  is  hot,  put  in  the  goods,  stirring  and  air- 
ing it  for  about  ^  hour,  then  dry  it.  Then  wash  immedi- 
diately  in  hot  soap  suds  in  several  waters,  so  that  it  will  not 
crock.  In  the  last  water  put  a  little  salt.  Wring  it  dry,  roll 
up  and  let  remain  several  hours  before  pressing. 

BLACK  FOR  COTTON  GOODS. 

Mrs.  Ann  Turner,  Mt.  Carmel,  Ky. 

One  pound  logwood,  \  pound  blue  vitriol,  I  dime's  worth 
of  fustic.  Each  in  a  sack  in  a  separate  vessel,  and  boil  20 
minutes.  Scald  your  goods  in  the  vitriol-water,  and  then 
air  them.  Put  the  logwood  mixture  with  the  fustic,  and  boil 
30  minutes.  Put  in  your  goods.  Keep  well  stirred  until 
you  obtain  the  color  desired.  Then  scald  with  weak  lye. 

BLACK. 

COTTON  AND  WOOLEN   GOODS   ALIKE. 

The  proportion  for  each  pound  of  goods  is  2  ounces  ex- 
tract logwood,  i  ounce  blue  vitriol,  \  ounce  sugar  of  lead. 
Dissolve  the  vitriol  in  one  water  and  the  logwood  in  another. 
Wet  the  goods  thoroughly  in  warm  water  before  putting 
into  the  vitriol-water.  Put  the  sugar  of  lead  in  the  logwood- 
water,  and  when  hot  take  the  goods  from  the  vitriol-water 


440  

Blue.  DYES.  Canary. 

and  put  into  the  dye.  Stir  them  about  in  the  dye  for  \ 
hour.  Then  take  out,  put  into  a  tub,  and  pour  over  enough 
hot,  strong  salt-water  to  cover.  Let  stand  until  cold,  hang 
up — let  dry  and  rinse  in  clear  warm  water.  Will  never 
crock  nor  fade. 

BLUE. 

Oxalic  acid,  ij  ounces,  in  i  quart  rain  water  over  night ; 
Prussian  blue,  2  ounces,  in  I  quart  rain  water  over  night. 
Then  put  together  in  as  much  more  warm  soft  water  as  you 
want  for  4  pounds  of  rags.  Put  the  rags  in  for  20  minutes. 
They  need  not  boil. 

NAVY  BLUE. 

First  dye  a  blue  ;  then  dip  into  a  weak  black  dye. 
BROWN. 

COTTON,  WOOLEN,  OR  SILK. 
Miss  Sallie  A.  Turner,  Elizaville,  Ky. 

To  IO  pounds  goods  take  2  pounds  catechu,  8  ounces  bi- 
chromate of  potash,  and  4  level  tablespoons  of  alum. 
Process  :  Dissolve  the  catechu  and  alum  in  cold  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  scald  the  goods  2  hours  in  this  dye. 
Dissolve  potash  in  warm  water.  Lift  the  goods  from  the 
catechu  dye  and  scald  goods  in  the  potash  dye  till  of  the 
desired  color.  Rinse  in  clear  warm  water.  Dry  in  the 
shade.  Use  brass  or  copper  vessels.  Iron  will  not  answer, 
but  porcelain  will  do. 

SEAL  BROWN  FOR  WOOLEN  GOODS. 
For  10  pounds  goods  take  I  pound  catechu,  4  ounces  blue 
vitriol,  4  ounces  bichromate  of  potash  ;  dissolve  each  in  sep- 
arate water  ;  heat  the  goods  one  hour  in  the  catechu-water  ; 
wring  out ;  dip  and  wring  out  of  the  hot  vitriol-water  ;  leave 
them  15  minutes  in  the  potash-water;  dry  and  wash  them. 

COMPOSITION. 

Three  ounces  of  good  indigo,  ground  and  sifted,  i  pound 
oil  of  vitriol,  mixed,  gradually.  Let  stand  i  hour.  For  pale 
blue,  take  a  little  composition  in  boiling  hot  water.  Very 
nice  for  little  children's  stockings. 

CANARY  COLOR  FOR  COTTON. 
For  5  pounds  of  goods  take  J   pound  sugar  of  lead  ;  dis- 
solve it   in  hot  water   ;  \  pound  bichromate  of  potash  dis- 
solved in  cold  water  in  a  wooden  pail.     Dip  the  goods  first  in 


Green.  DYES.  Red. 

the  lead-water  and  then  in  the  potash,  continuing-  until  the 
color  suits. 

GREEN. 

Five  pounds  fustic,  10  pounds  of  goods.  Put  the  fustic 
into  water  and  almost  boil  for  12  hours.  Then  remove  the 
chips  and  put  in  the  yarn  or  goods  and  boil  i  hour.  Take 
it  out  and  add  2  'pounds  of  alum.  Dip  again  for  J  hour. 
Take  out  the  goods  and  stir  into  the  dye  I  tablespoon  com- 
position and  let  it  boil,  stirring  it  well  together.  Then  dip 
till  the  color  suits. 

Green. 

Dip  rags  in  a  blue  dye,  then  in  the  yellow.  Wring  out 
and  shake  before  drying. 

ORANGE. 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  of  camwood,  one  pound  of  fustic. 
Boil  in  a  brass  kettle  half  an  hour.  Boil  five  pounds  of 
goods  one  hour  ;  cool,  and  add  I  ounce  of  blue  vitrol  and 
two  quarts  of  copperas  water  to  the  dye  and  boil  five 
minutes  ;  then  let  cool  and  put  in  your  goods  till  the  color 
suits. 

ORANGE  FOR  COTTON. 

Prepare  a  strong  lime-water — the  stronger  the  deeper 
the  color.  Pour  off  the  water  and  boil.  While  boiling, 
dip  the  goods  previously  colored  yellow  into  it.  Will  not 
fade. 

PURPLE. 

Ten  cents'  worth  of  cudbear  tied  in  a  bag,  I  pail  of  water. 
Heat  scalding  hot.  Dip  the  cloth  into  warm  suds,  and  then 
into  the  dye  for  15  or  20  minutes.  Dry,  then  wash  in  clean 
soap  and  water,  and  rinse. 

RED. 

Mrs.  Hollett. 

Three  ounces  solution  tin,  4  ounces  powdered  cochineal. 
Boil  the  latter  in  water  enough  to  cover  the  goods  for  about 
6  minutes,  then  add  the  tin.  Put  in  goods  and  boil  \  hour. 
Rinse  in  cold  water,  and  dry  in  the  shade. 

COCHINEAL  RED. 

Cochineal,  I J  ounces  ;  cream  of  tartar,  2  ounces  ;  muriate 
of  tin,  2  ounces.     Yarn  or  cloth,   I   pound.     Put  the  cochi- 
neal into  water  sufficient  for  the  goods,  and  set  over  the  fire. 
When  warm  add  the  cream  of  tartar.     When  scalding  hot, 
*54 


442 ^ 

Wine  Color.  DYES.  Yellow. 

put  in  the  tin.  Boil  the  goods  in  the  dye  \  hour.  Rinse  in 
warm  water.  Color  in  brass.  If  the  muriate  of  tin  cannot 
be  procured,  use  muriatic  acid  and  pour  on  pieces  of  tin  and 
let  it  remain  over  night.  The  muriate  of  tin  will  be  formed 
and  can  be  used  in  the  morning. 

MADDER   RED. 

One  pound  of  yarn  or  cloth,  8  ounces  madder,  3  ounces 
alum,  I  ounce  cream  of  tartar.  Five  gallons  soft  water. 
Let  it  boil  with  the  alum  and  cream  of  tartar.  Put  in  the 

foods  and  boil  2  hours.  Take  out,  air,  rinse  in  clear  water, 
our  the  liquor  away  and  prepare  the  same  quantity  of 
water  as  before.  Put  in  the  madder  broken  fine.  Heat  the 
water.  Enter  the  goods.  Stir  constantly  I  hour  ;  then  let 
it  boil  5  minutes.  Take  out,  rinse  in  cold  water  ;  then  wash 
through  three  suds. 

WINE  COLOR. 

For  2  pounds  woolen  goods,  i  pound  camwood,  boiled 
15  minutes  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  goods.  Put  goods  in; 
boil  i  hour — air  them.  Then  add  a  little  blue  vitrol  or  cop- 
peras, and  dip  the  goods  until  the  shade  is  as  desired. 

YELLOW  FOR   COTTON. 

Six  pounds  of  goods  in  water,  to  wet  through.  Nine 
ounces  sugar  of  lead  dissolved  in  the  same  quantity  of 
water.  Six  ounces  bichromate  of  potash  in  the  same 
quantity  of  water.  Keep  separate.  Dip  the  goods  first 
into  the  sugar  of  lead  water,  then  into  the  potash-water, 
then  into  the  sugar  of  lead  water  again.  Dry.  Rinse  in 
cold  water  and  dry  again. 

TURKEY  RED   FOR   COTTON. 

For  4  pounds  of  goods,  take  i  pound  sumac  in  water  that 
will  cover  the  goods.  Soak  over  night,  wring  out,  rinse  in 
soft  water.  Take  2  ounces  muriate  of  tin  in  clear,  soft  water, 
put  the  clothes  in  for  15  minutes.  Put  3  pounds  bur- wood 
in  cold  soft  water  in  a  boiler  on  the  stove,  and  nearly  boil 
it ;  then  let  cool,  add  the  cloth  and  boil  i  hour.  Take  out 
the  cloth,  add  i  ounce  oil  of  vitriol  to  the  water,  return  the 
cloth  and  boil  15  minutes.  Rinse  in  cold  water. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


UR  book  would  not  be  complete  without  a 
department  for  odds  and  ends,  this 
that,  and  the  other,  etc.  We  give  a  few 
very  valuable  recipes  for  many  different 
purposes.  They  have  all  been  compiled 
with  great  care,  and  are  highly  recom- 
mended. 

BLOOM  OF  YOUTH. 

Pure,  soft  water,  I  pint ;  pulverized  castile  soap,  2  ounces  ; 
emulsion  of  bitter  almonds,  3  ounces  ;  rosewater,  4  ounces  ; 
orange-flower  water,  4  ounces  ;  tincture  of  benzoin,  i 
drachm  ;  borax,  ^  drachm.  Add  5  grains  bi-chloride  of  mer- 
cury to  every  8  ounces  of  the  mixture.  Apply  to  the  face 
with  a  cotton  or  linen  cloth. 

ORIENTAL  COLD  CREAM. 

Oil  of  almonds,  4  ounces ;  white  wax,  2  drachms  ;  sper- 
maceti, 2  drachms.  Melt,  and  add  rosewater,  4  ounces  ; 
orange-flower  water,  I  ounce.  Used  to  soften  the  skin  ; 
apply  with  a  soft  rag. 

FRECKLES— TO  REMOVE. 

Mix  together  2  ounces  lemon  juice  (or  ^  drachm  powdered 
borax)  and  I  drachm  sugar.  Let  stand  in  a  glass  bottle  a 
few  days.  Rub  on  the  face  occasionally. 

TO  RESTORE  SOFTNESS  TO  THE   HANDS. 

One  can  have  the  hands  in  soap  suds  with  soft  soap  with- 
out injury  to  the  skin,  if  the  hands  are  dipped  in  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice  immediately  after.  Indian  meal  and  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice  used  on  hands  when  roughened  by  cold  or  labor 
will  heal  and  soften  them.  Rub  the  hands  in  this  ;  then 
wash  off  thoroughly  and  rub  in  glycerine.  Those  who  suf- 
fer from  chapped  hands  in  the  winter  will  find  this  comfort- 
ing. 

CAMPHOR   ICE. 

Six  drachms  of  camphor  gum,  ^  ounce  of  white  wax,  i\ 
ounces  of  spermaceti,  3  tablespoons  of  olive  oil.  Melt 
together. 


444 

Scent  Powder.  THE  TOILET.  Hair  Crimping. 

SCENT  POWDER. 

One  ounce  each  of  coriander,  orris  root,  rose  leaves,  and 
aromatic  calamus,  2  ounces  of  lavender  flowers,  |  drachm  of 
rhodium  wood,  5  grains  of  musk  ;  mix,  and  reduce  to  pow- 
der. This  scent  is  as  if  all  fragrant  flowers  were  pressed 
together. 

COLOGNE  WATER. 

One  pint  of  alcohol.  Add  30  drops  of  oil  of  lemon  and 
30  of  burgamot.  Shake  well  ;  then  add  |  gill  of  water. 
Bottle  for  use. 

TO  BEAUTIFY  TEETH. 

Dissolve  2  ounces  of  borax  in  3  pints  boiling  water. 
Before  it  is  cold -add  I  teaspoon  spirits  of  camphor.  A 
tablespoon  of  this  with  an  equal  amount  oi  tepid  water  will 
cleanse  the  teeth  from  all  impurities.  It  is  also  a  very  excel- 
lent wash  for  the  hair. 

TOOTH   PASTE. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Curtis,  Seattle,  Washington  Ty. 

Willow  charcoal  mixed  with  honey  is  excellent  for  whiten- 
ing the  teeth.  The  charcoal  can  be  procured  of  any  drug- 
gist, all  prepared  in  bottles.  It  is  very  finely  pulverized. 

FOR  BAD  BREATH. 

Eat  bits  of  charcoal.  If  you  cannot  procure  it,  take  an 
old  broom  handle,  and  burn  it  until  it  is  charred. 

EXCELLENT  HAIR  WASH. 

Put  ^  ounce  salts  of  tartar  in  I  pint  soft  water.  Wash  the 
hair  and  scalp  thoroughly. 

BEST  HAIR  WASH. 

One  pint  rum — St.  Croix  is  best ;  i  ounce  pulverized 
borax,  I  drachm  tincture  of  cantharides.  Wash  the  hair, 
rubbing  well  into  the  scalp,  two  or  three  times  a  week. 

DRY  SHAMPOO. 

Eight  ounces  alcohol,  16  ounces  water,  I  ounce  ammonia, 
i  ounce  cologne.  Rub  on  the  head  until  the  liquid  evapo- 
rates. No  rinsing  necessary. 

HAIR  CRIMPING. 

To  make  the  hair  stay  in  crimp,  take  gum  tragacanth  and 
add  to  it  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  it.  When  dissolved, 


445 

Hair  Brushes.  MISCELLANEOUS.  Cha.^oal. 

add  enough  alcohol  to  make  rather  thin.  Let  this  stand  all 
night,  and  then  bottle  it  to  prevent  the  alcohol  from  evapor- 
ating. This  put  on  the  hair  at  night  after  it  is  done  up  in 
paper  or  pins  will  make  it  stay  in  crimp  the  hottest  day,  and 
is  harmless. 

HAIR  BRUSHES. 

A  few  drops  of  hartshorn  in  a  little  water  will  clean  a 
hair  brush  better  than  anything  else,  and  will  do  no  harm. 
If  very  dirty,  rub  a  little  soap  on.  Alter  cleaning,  rinse  in 
clear  water,  and  hang  up  by  the  window  to  dry.  Do  not  let 
the  bristles  rest  on  any  hard  substance  while  wet.  Tie  a 
string  round  the  handle  and  hang  up. 

MAKE  YOUR  OWN    COURT  PLASTER. 
Tack   a  piece  of  silk  on  a  small  frame.     Dissolve   some 
isinglass  in  water.     When  well   incorporated,   apply  with  a 
brush  to  the  silk,  let  it  dry,  repeat  it,  and  when  dry,  cover  it 
with  a  strong  tincture  of  balsam  of  Peru. 

HONEY— TO  PREVENT  CANDYING. 
To  prevent  honey  from  candying,  after  being  taken  from 
the  comb  put  it  into  a  kettle  and  over  the  fire  ;  boil  it  gently 
and  as  the  scum  rises  skim  it  off  until  it  becomes  clear,  when 
it  can  be  turned  into  the  vessel  you  wish  to  keep  it  in,  where 
it  will  keep  clear  and  fresh  without  candying. 

WAX  FROM  HONEY-COMB. 

Put  the  comb  into  a  bag  made  of  coarse  strainer-cloth. 
Crowd  it  down  full.  Put  into  a  kettle  and  cover  well  with 
water.  Put  a  weight  on  if  necessary  to  keep  it  under  water. 
Turn  it  occasionally.  When  the  water  heats,  the  comb  will 
melt,  and  as  it  boils  the  wax  will  come  through  the  sack  and 
rise  to  the  top  of  the  water.  As  it  rises  it  should  be  dipped 
off  into  a  vessel  of  cold  water.  Keep  adding  water  suffi- 
cient to  keep  the  bag  covered.  Press  it  once  in  a  while,  and 
when  no  more  will  rise  it  is  all  out  of  the  comb,  and  is  cooled 
on  the  surface  of  the  cold  water. 

CHARCOAL  AS  A  PRESERVATIVE. 
Smoked  ham,  well  packed  in  pulverized  charcoal,  will  keep 
for  years.  Butter,  put  into  clean  pots  and  well  surrounded 
with  charcoal,  will  keep  good  for  12  months.  This  is  the 
antiseptic  quality  of  charcoal.  Each  atom  has  the  capacity 
of  absorbing  a  thousand  times  its  own  bulk  of  deleterious 
gases,  and  thus  keeps  what  it  surrounds  in  perfect  purity. 


446 

Apples  DIGESTION.  Milk. 


AVERAGE  TIME  REQUIRED  FOR  DIGESTION. 

ARTICLES  OF  FOOD.                        How  Prepared.                 Hrs.  Min. 

Apples,  sweet,  mellow Raw i  30 

Apples,  sour,  mellow Raw 2  oo 

Apples,  sour,  hard Raw 2  50 

Barley Boiled 2  oo 

Beans,  pod Boiled 2  30 

Beef,  fresh Boiled 3  30 

Beef,  lean,  rare Roasted 3  oo 

Beefsteak Broiled 3  oo 

Beef. Fried 4  oo 

Beets Boiled 3  45 

Brains Boiled I  45 

Bread,  corn Baked 3  15 

Bread,  fresh  wheat '. .  Baked 3  30 

Butter Melted .  3  30 

Cabbage,  vinegar Raw 2  oo 

Cabbage Raw 2  30 

Cabbage Boiled 4  oo 

Cake,  sponge Baked 2  30 

Catfish,  fresh Fried 3  30 

Cheese,  old Raw 3  30 

Chicken Fricasseed 2  45 

Chicken Boiled 4  oo 

Chicken Roasted 4  oo 

Codfish,  cured Boiled 2  oo 

Custard Baked 2  45 

Ducks Roasted 4  oo 

Dumplings,  apple Boiled 3  oo 

Eggs Raw i  30 

Eggs Roasted 2  15 

Eggs Soft-boiled 3  oo 

Eggs Hard-boiled  ...  3  30 

Eggs Fried 3  30 

Gelatine Boiled 2  30 

Green  corn Boiled 3  45 

Goose Roasted 2  30 

Hash,  meat,  vegetable .    .  .    . . Warmed 2  30 

Heart Fried 4  oo 

Johnny  cake Baked .........  3  oo 

Lamb Broiled 2  30 

Liver,  beef. Broiled 2  oo 

Milk Boiled 2  oo 

Milk Raw 2  15 


447 

Mutton.                                                             DIGESTION.  Venison. 

AVERAGE  TIME   REQUIRED  FOR  DIGESTION—  Continued. 

ARTICLES  OF  FOOD.                        How  Prepared.  Hrs.  Min. 

Mutton,  fresh Roasted 3     15 

Mutton Broiled 3     oo 

Mutton Boiled 3     oo 

Onions Boiled 3     oo 

Oysters Raw 2     55 

Oysters Roasted 3     15 

Oysters Stewed 3     30 

Parsnips Boiled 2     30 

Pigs  feet,  soused Boiled i     oo 

Pig,  suckling Roasted 2     30 

Pork,  fresh Stewed 3     oo 

Pork,  fat  and  lean Roasted 5      15 

Pork Broiled 3     15 

Pork  steak Broiled 3     15 

Potatoes Boiled 3     30 

Potatoes Roasted 2     30 

Rice Boiled ,  i     oo 

Sago.... Boiled ,.  i     45 

Salmon,  salted Boiled 4    oo 

Salmon,  fresh Boiled  ........  i     45 

Sausage Broiled  ........  3     20 

Sausage Fried 4     oo 

Soup,  bean Boiled ,  3     oo 

Soup,  mutton ...    Boiled 3     30 

Soup,  oyster Boiled 3     30 

Soup,  beef,  vegetable Boiled 4     oo 

Spinach Boiled 2     30 

Suet,  beef.  ...        Boiled 5     30 

Tomatoes Stewed 2     30 

Tripe,  soused .  Boiled I     oo 

Trout,  fresh .  Boiled I     30 

Trout,  fresh Fried I     30 

Turkey,  domestic Boiled 2     25 

Turkey,  wild Roasted 2     18 

Turnips,  flat Boiled 3     30 

Veal Broiled 4    oo 

Veal Fried 4     30 

Venison,  steak Broiled i     35 

INDIGESTIBLE  FOODS. 

The  following  are  very  difficult  to  digest,  and  should  be 

avoided  by  persons  having  weak  digestive  organs  ;  and  by 


448 ' ^ 

Beefsteak  Pie.  DIGESTION.  Food  in  Season. 

those  who  are  strong,  they  should  be  used  sparingly.     The 
most  of  the  following  take  from  4  to  54  hours  to  digest : 

Beefsteak  pie.  m  Nuts. 

Cheese.  Pork. 

Currants.  Puff  paste. 

Dumplings.  Radishes. 

Eels.  Raw  spirits. 

Fried  dishes.  Red  herrings. 

Hard-boiled  eggs.  Rinds  of  fruit. 

Hashes  and  stews.  Salt  beef. 

Husks  of  fruit.  Sausage. 

Melted  butter.  Shell-fish. 

New  Bread.  Unripe  fruits. 

New  Potatoes.  Veal. 

SEASON  FOR  EATING  DIFFERENT  FOODS 

IN  THE  NORTHERN  AND  MIDDLE  STATES. 
Apples,  all  the  year  round.     Cheapest  in  the  fall. 
Artichokes,  in  September. 
Asparagus,  May  and  June. 

Beans,  string,  June  to  October  ;   Lima,  July  till  winter. 
Beef  at  all  seasons. 
Beets,  June  and  throughout  the  year. 
Buckwheat  cakes,  late  fall  and  winter. 
Butternuts,  from  October  throughout  the  year. 
Cabbage,  May  and  throughout  the  year. 
Carrots,  all  summer  and  fall. 
Cauliflower,  June  till  following  spring. 
Celery,  August  till  April. 
Cheese,  any  time. 

Cherries,  during  the  summer  months. 
Chestnuts,  after  a  severe, frost. 
Clams,  May  to  September. 
Corn,  green,  June  to  September. 
Crabs,  better   in   cold  weather. 
Cranberries,  September  to  April. 
Cucumbers,  June  to  November. 
Currants,  June  to  August  (ripe  in  July). 
Damsons,  July  to  November. 

Ducks,  June  and  July  ;  wild  ducks,  in  spring  and  fall. 
Eels,  April  to  November. 
Eggs,  best  in  spring,  but  always  in  season. 
Elderberries,  August  and  September. 
Fish,  at  all  times;  some  kinds  always  in  season. 


449 

Geese.  FOOD  IN  SEASON.  Woodcock. 

SEASON   FOR    EATING    DIFFERENT   FOODS — Continued. 
Geese,  October  to  December. 
Gooseberries,  June  to  September. 
Grapes,  September  till  cold  weather. 
Herbs,  gather  just  as  they  begin  to  bloom. 
Horse-radish,   at  all  times. 
Lemons,  cheapest  in  winter. 
Lobsters,  spring,  summer,  and  autumn. 
Mushrooms,  August  and  September. 
Mutton,  at  any  time  ;  Lamb,  June  to  August. 
Onions,  at  all  seasons. 
Oranges,  cheapest   in  winter  months. 
Oysters,  September  to  May. 
Partridges,  September  to  January. 
Peas,  green,  June  and  July. 
Peaches,  August  to  November. 
Pears,  August  to  October. 
Pie-plant,  April  to  September. 
Pigeons,  September  and  October. 
Pork,  in  cold  weather. 

Potatoes,  the  year  round  ;  sweet,  August  to  December. 
Prairie  fowls,  August  to  October. 
Prunes,  fresh,  December  to  May. 
Pumpkins,  September  to  January. 
Quinces,  October  to  December. 
Rabbits,  September  till  February. 
Radishes,  April  to  November. 
Rail-birds,  September  and  October. 
Raspberries,  June  to  September. 
Salmon,  March  to  September. 
Shad,  latter  part  of  February  to  June. 
Smelts,  October  to  April. 
Snipe,  last  of  March  and  April  and  October. 
Spinach,  early  spring  till  late  fall. 
Squash,  summer,  June  to  August. 
Squash,  winter,  August  till  spring. 
Strawberries,  June  and  July. 
Tomatoes,  June  till  fall. 

Trout,  brook,  March  to  August ;  lake,  October  to  March. 
Turkeys,  any  time.     Best   in  cold  weather. 
Veal,   any  time  except  in  very  hot  weather. 
Venison,  buck,  August  to  November  ;  doe,  in  winter. 
Watermelons,  July  to  October. 
Woodcock,  July  to  November. 
*55 


45Q 

Floors  MISCELLANEOUS.  Furniture  Polish. 

STAIN  FOR  FLOORS. 

Make  a  bucket  of  smooth  flour  paste.  Stir  in  i  pound 
yellow  ochre.  Apply  to  the  floor  with  a  white-wash  brush. 
Let  it  dry.  Then  give  it  a  coat  of  boiled  linseed  oil. 

PAINT  FOR  KITCHEN  FLOOR. 

Three  pints  oil,  I  pint  dryer,  3  pounds  white  lead,  5 
pounds  yellow  ochre  ;  add  a  little  turpentine. 

SHELLAC  FOR  FLOOR. 

Allow  5  ounces  shellac  to  a  quart  of  alcohol.  Use  as 
soon  as  dissolved.  After  a  floor  is  painted  or  stained  (and 
dried),  apply  the  shellac  with  a  brush  ;  let  dry  and  apply 
again.  Two  or  three  applications,  which  are  very  easily 
made,  will  brighten  up  a  room  wonderfully,  and  it  will  re- 
quire nothing  but  wiping  with  a  damp  cloth  to  keep  it 
bright  for  many  months.  Any  woman  can  do  both  the 
painting  and  applying  the  coats  of  shellac. 

CLEANING  SILVER. 

One-half  ounce  prepared  chalk,  2  ounces  alcohol,  2  ounces 
aqua  ammonia.  Apply  with  cotton  flannel,  and  rub  with 
chamois-skin.  Wash  silver  in  very  hot,  clear  water,  and 
wipe  dry  with  a  soft  towel,  and  you  will  have  no  need  for 
silver  soap,  or  any  other  preparation. 

CLEANING  BRASS  OR   COPPER. 

C.  D.  Hicks,  Racine,  Wis. 

One  pint  alcohol,  I  ounce  oxalic  acid,  2  papers  Mt.  Eagle 
Tripoli,  I  star  candle.  Shave  the  candle  into  the  other  mix- 
ture, and  let  stand  until  dissolved.  Then  it  is  ready  for  use. 
Shake  before  using.  Apply  the  mixture,  and  when  dry  rub 
off  with  a  woolen  cloth.  The  same  mixture  without  the 
candle  excellent  for  cleaning  glass. 

FURNITURE   POLISH. 

Raw  linseed  oil,  4  ounces  ;  balsam  of  fir,  2  drachms  ; 
acetic  ether,  2  drachms.  Dissolve  the  balsam  in  4  ounces 
alcohol ;  then  mix  all  together.  To  use,  shake  well  and  ap- 
ply with  a  soft  cloth.  But  very  little  is  needed  on  the  cloth. 

POLISH  FOR  OLD  OR  MARRED  FURNITURE. 
One  ounce  kerosene,   I  ounce  shellac,  \  ounce  linseed  oil, 
\  ounce  turpentine.     Keep  corked,  shake,  and  apply  with  a 
soft  sponge. 


Cellar.  CLEANING  HOUSE.  Attic. 

CLEANING  HOUSE. 

The  melancholy  days  that  come, 

The  saddest  of  the  year, 
When  scrubbing-brushes,  mops,  and  brooms 

Are  flying  far  and  near, — 
When  carpets,  curtains,  rugs,  and  beds 

Are  streched  on  fence  and  line, 
And  everything  is  upside  down — 

O,  sad,  unhappy  time. 

At  this  cheerful  time  of  year,  a  few  hints  to  the  newly 
initiated  may  prove  helpful.  They  are  not  written  for  the 
veterans  in  the  service,  although  such  may  possibly  be  bene- 
fited somewhat  by  glancing  at  them.  It  is  a  good  plan  to 
regulate  and  renovate  all  bureau-drawers  and  closets  before 
the  general  siege.  Then  have  the  washing  and  ironing  fin- 
ished and  put  away.  Wash  up  everything  that  is  soiled. 
Bake  enough  bread,  cookies,  and  cake  to  last  several  days. 
Boil  a  large  ham,  if  possible,  and  bake  a  big  pot  of  beans. 
These,  with  preserved  fruits,  will  make  a  good  meal  with 
hot  tea  or  coffee. 

The  general  rule  to  begin  at  the  garret  and  finish  with 
the  cellar  is  a  good  one  in  the  main.  But  sometimes,  with 
a  large  house  and  insufficient  help,  the  cellar  gets  but 
an  indifferent  cleaning  if  left  till  all  hands  are  tired  out. 
It  is,  in  reality,  the  most  important  part  of  the  whole  house. 
There  can  be  no  health,  with  foul,  disease-breeding  gases 
escaping  into  the  living  rooms  above,  to  be  breathed  into 
the  system.  Malarial  diseases  are  often  traced  to  a  cellar 
of  decayed  vegetables.  Typhus  und  typhoid  fevers,  cutting 
down  whole  families,  can  be  traced  directly  to  the  fearful 
emanations  from  a  filthy  cellar. 

After  removing  all  rubbish  from  each  nook  and  corner, 
and  giving  it  a  thorough  airing,  give  it  a  good  coat  of 
white-wash,  yellowed  with  copperas.  Wash  the  windows 
and  steps. 

Next,  go  to  the  upper  story  and  begin  in  good  earnest 
the  cleaning  and  putting  things  to  rights  after  an  accumu- 
lated disorder  of  six  months  or  a  year.  Even  with  constant 
watchcare,  things  will  get  out  of  place,  and  house-renovat- 
ing is  just  as  sure  to  be  a  necessity,  as  is  the  cleaning  neces- 
sary to  health. 

First  and  foremost,  let  in  the  air.  Give  things  a  system- 
atic sorting  over,  putting  articles  of  a  kind  together  in  boxes 


452 

Walls.  CLEANING  HOUSE.  Windows. 

or  sacks,  and  labeling  them.  Sweep  the  ceiling  and  walls 
down.  Wash  the  windows  and  the  floor.  Wipe  up  dry. 
If  there  are  any  signs  of  moths,  make  sure  that  there  is  no 
fire  or  light  in  the  room,  and  sprinkle  benzine  plentifully 
around  the  cracks  and  crevices.  Have  but  little  in  the  dish 
you  use.  Exercise  great  caution  in  its  use.  It  will  be  death 
to  the  moths.  The  odor  is  disagreeable,  but  of  short  dura- 
tion. Wash  the  steps  down,  and  you  are  ready  for  the 
chambers. 

A  good  step-ladder  is  one  of  the  indispensables  in  every 
house.  Be  careful,  however,  and  see  that  it  stands  securely 
before  ascending  it.  I  have  a  lady  acquaintance  who  fell 
from  one  that  stood  insecurely,  and  has  been  made  almost 
helpless  for  life,  from  the  effects  of  the  fall. 

Before  beginning  the  general  cleaning,  take  everything 
from  the  walls.  Dust  and  wipe  off  and  put  into  the  closets, 
which  are  already  cleaned.  Shut  the  doors.  Take  one 
room  at  a  time.  Move  everything  out  ;  take  up  the  carpet. 
Have  it  folded  and  carried  right  out  into  the  yard  and  spread 
upon  the  grass,  or  hung  on  the  line.  After  it  is  beaten  well 
on  the  wrong  side  with  whips  or  canes,  sweep  it  very  partic- 
ularly on  the  right  side,  with  a  good,  firm  broom.  Do  not 
sweep  against  the  pile  in  velvet  or  Brussels.  Use  the  prep- 
aration for  "  Renovating  Carpets  and  Rugs,  "  on  page  438, 
for  removing  grease-spots.  It  will  brighten  a  very  badly- 
soiled  carpet. 

Sweep  the  bare  floor,  and  get  the  dirt  up  before  opening 
the  windows.  If  sawdust  can  be  gotten,  dampen  it  and 
sprinkle  the  floor  with  it.  Wash  hard-finished  walls,  and 
wipe  dry.  Paper  walls  should  be  wiped  off  with  a  broom 
wrapped  in  old  flannel.  Change  the  cloth  for  a  clean  one 
when  it  gets  soiled.  Of  course,  a  wall-brush  with  an  exten- 
sion handle  is  the  best  of  anything  for  this  purpose,  but  the 
broom  is  a  good  substitute. 

Next,  wash  the  windows  ;  then  the  woodwork.  Put 
ammonia  in  each  pail  of  water  to  soften  it,  and  half  the 
labor  is  saved.  Change  the  water  often.  Use  strong  suds 
for  the  floor,  and  change  the  water  often.  Wash  but  a 
square  yard  at  a  time  and  wipe  it  dry. 

Take  the  next  room  the  same  way.  By  the  time  that  is 
cleaned,  the  first  one  will  be  ready  for  the  carpet  to  go  down. 
Sprinkle  salt  entirely  around  the  room  under  the  edge  of  the 
carpet.  It  is  a  very  sure  preventive  of  moths.  If  kalsomin- 
ing  has  to  be  done,  of  course  the  labor  of  house-cleaning 


153 

Carpets.  CLEANING  HOUSE.  Tin-Ware. 

is  greatly  increased.  A  good  recipe  will  be  found  for  kal- 
somine  in  this  chapter,  which,  if  closely  followed,  will  give 
excellent  results.  For  those  who  prefer  white-wash,  I  give 
also  the  famous  "White  House"  recipe. 

It  is  poor  economy  to  try  to  put  down  a  carpet  alone.  The 
better  it  is  put  down,  the  better  it  will  wear.  I  think  it 
pays  to  hire  a  man  who  makes  carpet-laying  his  business, 
They  furnish  their  own  tacks,  which  alone  is  quite  an  item, 
and  it  is  much  more  satisfactory  when  done.  Laying  a 
heavy  carpet  is  a  piece  of  work  that  no  woman  ought  ever 
to  attempt.  Many  persons  still  use  straw  under  their  car- 
pets, and  it  is  certainly  clean  and  sweet.  In  cities  and 
towns  it  is  more  customary  to  use  the  regular  carpet-lining 
paper,  which  is  heavy  and  durable.  For  stairs  be  sure  and 
use  either  padding  or  lining,  and  have  the  carpet  a  yard  ex- 
tra in  length  to  allow  you  to  change  its  position  occasionally, 
and  so  save  the  wear  where  the  edges  of  the  steps  come. 

Replacing  the  furniture  in  the  room  is  comparatively  easy. 
The  pieces  should  be  well  dusted  and  polished.  If  not  con- 
venient to  polish  the  same  day,  it  can  be  done  any  other 
day.  A  good  recipe  for  polish  will  be  found  in  this  chapter. 
For  cleaning  marble  I  have  found  sapolio  to  be  very  good. 

Broken  marble  may  be  mended  by  the  use  of  the  crockery 
cement  given  further  on  in  this  chapter.  I  knew  of  a  broken 
tomb-stone  being  mended  with  this  simple  preparation  that 
has  stood  the  wind  and  weather  of  many  years. 

Dining-room  floors  are  better  uncarpeted  in  families  hav- 
ing young  children.  In  fact,  they  are  better  in  summer,  in 
any  family.  Have  the  floor  stained  or  painted,  and  it  is  al- 
ways easy  to  keep  it  clean  and  sweet.  If  carpeted,  have  a 
crumb-cloth  that  can  be  taken  up  and  shaken  at  will,  and 
thus  protect  the  main  carpet. 

When  the  kitchen  is  reached  by  the  attacking  party, 
gather  up  all  of  the  lamp-burners  and  put  into  strong  soda- 
water  and  boil  up  in  some  convenient  vessel.  Into  a  boiler, 
put  all  of  the  baking-tins,  dripping-pans,  waffle-irons,  gem- 
irons,  etc.,  and  boil  them  15  or  20  minutes  in  suds  or  soda- 
water.  If  you  use  either  of  the  washing  preparations  given 
in  the  "  Laundry"  chapter,  put  some  of  it  in  the  water.  The 
fluid  is  excellent  for  this  purpose.  Don't  scour  your  life 
away  on  tinware.  Wash  clean,  wipe  dry,  and  let  that 
suffice. 

While  the  tins  and  pans  are  cleaning  themselves  in  the 
boiler,  get  the  pantry  ready  to  place  them  back.  Use 


454 

Sink.  CLEANING  HOUSE.  White-Wash. 

enameled  cloth  for  shelves,  instead  of  paper.  It  costs  but 
little,  and  is  so  easily  cleaned  that  it  pays  a  good  interest 
on  the  investment.  Clean  the  walls  either  by  washing, 
kalsomining,  or  white-washing. 

See  that  the  sinks  and  drains  are  thoroughly  disinfected. 
Copperas  is  the  cheapest,  and  one  of  the  very  best  for  this 
purpose.  Make  a  solution  of  it  in  water  and  sprinkle  in 
the  places  needing  it,  besides  putting  a  small  vessel  con- 
taining it  in  the  same  places. 

When  the  stoves  are  put  away,  rub  each  length  of  pipe 
with  kerosene,  wrap  a  paper  around  it  and  number  it ;  so 
that  it  can  be  put  up  in  the  fall  according  to  the  numbering. 
The  kerosene  will  keep  it  from  rusting. 

Be  sure  and  clean  the  soot  out  of  the  stove-pipe  holes  in 
the  chimneys  before  they  are  covered  for  the  summer. 

Have  the  doors  and  windows  screened  after  the  cleaning 
is  done.  Put  mats  and  scrapers  at  the  doors. 

If  it  is  a  possible  thing,  do  your  cleaning  on  bright,  sunny 
days.  Polish  the  grates  about  the  last  thing,  using  recipe 
given  farther  on. 

Look  bed-steads  over  in  March.  Apply  Persian  insect 
powder,  or  the  poison  mentioned  in  the  latter  part  of  this 
chapter.  Even  after  the  general  house-cleaning,  they 
should  be  looked  after  once  a  week.  Bed-bugs  can  never 
get  the  mastery  if  fought  in  this  manner. 

When  winter  clothes  are  put  away  for  the  summer,  ex- 
amine carefully,  shake  well,  and  wrap  each  article  in  paper 
and  tie  up  securely.  I  always  put  my  furs  and  fur-trimmed 
cloak  in  an  old  linen  pillow-case  and  baste  it  up,  being  sure 
there  are  no  holes  through  which  the  moth-miller  can  crawl 
to  lay  her  eggs.  Blankets  can  be  wrapped  in  old  sheets  or 
large  papers. 

WHITE-WASH— VERY  BRILLIANT. 
Put  ^  bushel  lime  in  a  vessel,  pour  on  boiling  water  to 
slake  it,  and  cover  it  during  the  slaking  process.  Strain 
through  a  strainer,  and  add  a  peck  of  salt  that  is  dissolved 
in  warm  water  ;  then  add  3  pounds  ground  rice  boiled  to  a 
thin  paste  and  stirred  in  while  boiling  hot  ;  ^  pound  pow- 
dered Spanish  whiting,  and  I  pound  clear  glue,  which  has 
been  dissolved.  Put  this  kettle  of  whitewash  into  a  larger 
one  filled  with  hot  water.  Add  5  gallons  hot  water  to  the 
mixture,  stir  well,  and  let  stand  a  few  days,  covered  from 
the  dirt.  Apply  it  hot.  A  pint  will  do  a  square  yard  of  the 


455 

Kalsomine.  RENOVATING.  Carpets. 

outside  of  a  house.  It  is  as  good  as  paint  for  the  outside  or 
inside,  and  will  keep  brilliant  for  years.  Will  answer  for 
wood,  brick,  or  stone.  It  may  be  tinted  for  walls,  if  liked. 
Chrome,  added,  makes  a  pretty  yellow  wash.  Finely-pulver- 
ized common  clay  well  mixed  with  Spanish  brown  makes  a 
reddish  stone  color.  Spanish  brown  alone,  added,  makes  a 
deep  pink.  The  above  recipe  is  the  famous  one  used  on  the 
White  House  in  Washington. 

KALSOMINE. 

One-fourth  pound  light-colored  glue ;  5  pounds  Paris 
white.  Soak  glue  over  night  in  a  quart  of  warm  water. 
Next  day,  add  a  pint  of  water  and  set  in  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water,  and  stir  till  the  ^-ue  is  well  dissolved.  Put  the  Paris 
white  into  a  large  bucket,  pour  on  hot  water,  and  stir  until  it 
is  creamy.  Add  the  prepared  glue,  mix  thoroughly,  and 
apply  with  a  white-wash  brush.  Every  time  the  brush  is 
put  into  the  pail  the  kalsomine  should  be  stirred  from  the 
bottom.  If  a  reddish  or  pink  tint  is  wanted,  add  Spanish 
brown,  till  of  the  desired  shade.  This  will  be  sufficient  for 
a  room  18  feet  square. 

A  HOME-MADE  CARPET. 

Paste  the  floor  of  the  room  over  with  newspapers.  Over 
this,  paste  wall  paper  ,f  a  pattern  to  look  like  carpet  or  oil- 
cloth. Put  down  as  smoothly  as  possible,  match  it  nicely 
where  the  widths  come  together.  Use  good  flour  paste. 
Then  size  and  varnish  it.  Dark  glue  and  common  furniture 
varnish  may  be  used.  Place  a  rug  here  and  there,  and  your 
room  is  carpeted. 

TO  SAVE  STAIR  CARPETS. 

Stair  carpets  should  always  have  a  slip  of  paper,  or  a 
padding  made  of  cheap  cotton  batting,  tacked  in  a  cheap 
muslin  put  under  them,  at  and  over  the  edge  of  every 
stair,  which  is  the  part  where  they  wear  first.  The  strips 
should  be  within  an  inch  or  two  as  long  as  the  carpet  is 
wide  and  about  four  or  five  inches  in  breadth.  A  piece  of 
old  carpet  answers  better  than  paper  if  you  have  it.  This 
plan  will  keep  a  stair  carpet  in  good  condition  for  a  much 
longer  time  than  without  it. 

LINING  STAIR  CARPETS. 

Mrs.  Clarissa  O.  Keeler,  Baltimore,   Maryland. 

A  stair  carpet  lined   with   new  cotton   will  almost  never 


456 

Stains.  RENOVATING.  Grates. 

wear  out.  It  saves  the  strain,  especially  if  moved  occasion- 
ally so  that  the  wear  does  not  come  all  the  time  in  the 
same  place. 

PATCHING    CARPETS. 

Take  pieces  of  cloth  and  paste  over  the  holes  with  a 
paste  made  of  gum  tragacanth  and  water. 

SWEEPING  CARPETS. 

Use  coarse  wet  salt  for  sweeping  both  matting  and  car- 
peting. It  keeps  the  dust  down  and  brightens  the  carpet. 

CARPET-CLEANER. 

Dampen  sawdust  with  water,  and  sprinkle  ammonia  on 
it  and  use  on  a  carpet.  It  will  brighten  it  very  much. 

INK  STAINS 

Can  be  removed  from  a  carpet  by  freely  pouring  milk  on 
the  place,  and  leaving  it  to  soak  in  for  a  time,  then  rub  it  so 
as  to  remove  all  ink,  and  scoop  up  remaining  milk  with  a 
spoon  ;  repeat  the  process  with  more  milk,  if  necessary  ; 
then  wash  it  off  completely  with  clean  cold  water,  and  wipe 
it  dry  with  cloths.  If  this  is  done  when  the  ink  is  wet,  the 
milk  takes  all  stain  out  of  woolen  material  instantly  ;  but 
when  it  has  dried,  a  little  time  is  required. 

Another  method  :  As  soon  as  the  ink  is  spilled,  put  on 
salt,  and  cover  well.  Remove  as  fast  as  it  becomes  colored, 
and  put  on  fresh.  Continue  this  till  the  salt  is  white,  sweep 
well,  and  no  trace  of  ink  will  remain.  Corn  meal  used 
similarly  on  coal  oil  spots  on  carpets,  will  remove  every 
particle,  even  if  a  large  quantity  has  been  spilled. 

GREASE  SPOTS. 

To  remove  grease  from  carpets,  see  recipe,  page  438. 

Grease  may  be  removed  from  a  white  floor  by  making  a 
common  hasty  pudding  of  corn-meal  and  laying  it  on  the 
spot  until  cold. 

To  remove  grease  from  wall  paper  pulverize  a  common 
clay  pipe,  mix  it  with  water  into  a  stiff  paste,  laying  it  on 
very  carefully,  letting  it  remain  over  night.  Then  lightly 
brush  it  off. 

GRATES— TO    BLACKEN. 

Asphaltum,  2\  pounds  ;  melt  and  add  boiled  oil,  I  pound  ; 
spirits  of  turpentine,  3  quarts.  Mix.  Apply  when  cold 
with  a  rag  or  brush.  Very  inflammable.  Be  cautious. 


457 

Furniture  Polish.  MISCELLANEOUS.  Paste, 

OIL-CLOTHS—TO  CLEAN. 

Take  a  soft  cloth — an  old  knit  under-garment  is  good, 
dampen  it  with  kerosene  and  wipe  the  oil-cloth  every  day 
or  two.  Do  not  use  water.  Or,  wash  in  skim  milk  and  water. 
Rub  with  linseed  oil  every  few  weeks.  Take  but  little,  rub 
in  well,  and  polish  with  an  old  silk  cloth. 

FURNITURE   POLISH— VERY   SUPERIOR. 

Fred  S.  Johnstone,  Chicago. 

Dissolve  i  ounce  gum  arabic  in  water.  Add  I  ounce  gum 
tragacanth,  I  ounce  benzoin,  £  ounce  'wintergreen  oil,  I 
quart  alcohol,  I  pint  raw  oil  (linseed).  Let  stand  about  24 
hour:^.  Always  shake  before  using.  If  desired  thinner,  use 
alcohol.  Rub  on  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  wipe  off  immedi- 
ately with  a  dry  one.  This  is  very  important. 

ROACHES. 

Equal  parts  of  borax  and  white  sugar  will  drive  away 
roaches  or  Croton  bugs. 

MOTHS. 
Put  salt  under  the  edges  of  carpets  when  tacked  down. 

BED-BUG    POISON. 

Mrs.  R.  W  Louis,  Chicago. 

Six  ounces  corrosive  sublimate,  6  ounces  camphor  gum,  i 
pt.  spirits  turpentine;  shake  well,  mix;  let  stand  a  day.  Shake 
before  using. 

CROCKERY  CEMENT. 

To  mend  broken  china,  glass,  marble,  or  common  crock- 
ery, mix  fresh-slaked  lime  with  white  of  egg  until  it 
becomes  a  sticky  paste.  Apply  to  the  edges,  and  in  3  days 
it  will  be  firm. 

LIQUID  GLUE. 

Best  white  glue,  16  ounces  ;  white  lead,  dry,  4  ounces  ; 
rain  water,  I  quart  ;  alcohol,  4  ounces.  With  constant  stir- 
ring dissolve  the  glue  and  lead  in  the  water,  by  means  of  a 
water  bath.  Add  the  alcohol,  and  continue  the  heat  for  a 
few  minutes.  Pour  into  bottles  while  still  hot. 

PASTE  THAT  WILL  KEEP. 

Dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  alum  in  a  quart  of  warm  water. 
When  cold,  stir  in  flc  _ir  to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream, 
beating  up  all  the  lumps.  Stir  in  powdered  resin,  and  throw 
in  a  half  dozen  cloves  to  give  it  a  pleasant  odor.  Have  on 
the  fire  a  teacup  of  boiling  water  ;  pour  the  flour  mixture 
into  it,  stirring  well  all  the  time.  In  a  few  moments  it  will 
*56 


458 

Mending  Tinware.  MISCELLANEOUS.  Burning  Chimnay. 

be  of  the  consistency  of  mush.  Pour  it  into  an  earthern  or 
china  vessel ;  let  it  cool,  lay  a  cover  on,  and  put  it  in  a  cool 
place.  When  needed  for  use,  take  out  a  portion  and  soften 
it  with  boiling  water.  Paste  thus  made  will  last  twelve 
months.  Better  than  gum,  as  it  does  not  gloss  paper,  and  can 
be  written  on. 

MENDING  TINWARE. 

Fill  a  vial  f  full  muriatic  acid,  put  into  it  all  the  chippings 
of  sheet  zinc  it  will  dissolve ;  then  add  a  crumb  of  sal 
ammoniac  and  fill  up  with  water.  Wet  the  place  to  be 
mended  with  this  liquid,  put  a  piece  of  zinc  over  the  hole, 
and  apply  a  lighted  candle  below  it,  which  melts  the  solder 
on  the  tin  and  makes  the  zinc  to  adhere. 

FIRE-KINDLERS. 

To  i  pound  resin,  put  from  2  to  3  ounces  tallow  ;  melt 
very  carefully  together,  and,  when  hot,  stir  in  fine  sawdust, 
and  make  very  thick.  Spread  it  immediately  about  I  inch 
thick  upon  a  board.  Sprinkle  fine  sawdust  over  the  board 
first,  to  prevent  sticking.  When  cold,  break  into  lumps  I 
inch  square.  If  made  for  sale,  take  a  thin  board,  grease  the 
edge,  and  mark  it  off  into  squares,  pressing  it  deep,  while 
yet  warm,  so  it  will  break  in  regular  shapes.  This  may  be 
sold  at  a  good  profit.  It  takes  but  very  little  to  kindle  a  fire. 

INDELIBLE  INK. 

C.    S.  Johnston,  Harford,   Pa. 

Dissolve  2  drachms  nitrate  of  silver,  \  ounce  gum  arabic 
in  a  gill  of  rain  water.  Add  aqua  ammonia,  a  few  drops  at 
a  time,  till  you  get  the  color  the  right  shade.  After  mark- 
ing, dry  the  goods  near  the  fire,  or  in  the  sun.  Don't  mark 
new  cloth  before  the  dressing  is  washed  out,  but  starch  and 
iron  the  garment,  then  mark,  and  all  creation  will  not  be 
likely  to  wash  it  out.  Keep  it  dark. 

MARKING  INK. 

Dissolve  asphaltum  in  oil  of  naptha,  and  it  will  answer 
for  marking  parcels,  drying  quickly  and  not  spreading. 

BURNING  CHIMNEY— TO  STOP. 

Shut  all  the  windows  and  doors,  to  prevent  a  current  of 
air,  and  throw  a  handful  or  more  of  salt  in  the  fire. 


FARMERS'  DEPARTMENT, 


CUTTING  UP  ME  A  TS. 
ROAD-MAKING. 


DISEASES  OF  ANIMALS. 
MISCELLANEOUS. 


CUTTING  UP  MEATS. 


E  give  diagrams  showing  the  manner  of 
cutting  up  meats  at  the  present  day  for 
home  consumption.  Packers  have  a  dif- 
ferent method.  On  the  quarter  of  beef 
the  figures  are  made  to  correspond  with 
the  like  parts  in  the  beef  on  foot.  It  is 
the  same  with  the  porker. 

BEEF. 


10. 
ii. 

12. 


Shank,  for  soup-bone. 
Flank,  for  soup  or  steak. 


Cheek,  for  soup. 

Neck,  for  mince-meat. 

Chuck,  for  roasting. 

Rib  roast — best  roast. 

Porter-house  steak. 

Sirloin,  roast  or  steak. 

Rump,  to  roast  or  boil. 

Round,  for  steak,  pot-roast,  or  dried  beef. 

Hock,  for  soup- meat. 

14.  Shoulder-clod,  for  pot-roast. 

15.  Shank,  for  soup- bone. 


Rib  or  plate,  for  corned  beef.  16.     Breast,  for  soup  or  stew. 

Brisket,  for  corned  beef.  The  pluck  is  the  heart,  liver,  and  lights. 


460 

Veal. CUTTING  UP  MEATS. Rennet. 

To  CLEAN  TRIPE. 

Rinse  the  paunch  in  cold  water  after  it  is  emptied.  Use 
great  care  that  the  contents  do  not  touch  the  outside. 
Make  a  strong  lye  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  tripe,  and  let  it 
soak  3  hours.  Then  fasten  it  to  a  board  with  tacks,  and 
scrape  the  inner  skin  off  with  a  knife.  Then  sprinkle  with 
lime,  cover  with  warm  water,  and,  after  soaking-  2  hours, 
scrape  again.  If  the  dark  comes  off  it  is  clean,  but  if  not, 
sprinkle  again  with  lime,  and  soak  once  more,  and  scrape 
again.  When  clean,  cover  with  salt  water,  and  keep  it  soak- 
ing for  3  days,  putting  on  clear  brine  each  day.  Then  take 
out,  cut  into  6-inch  squares,  soak  in  buttermilk  (to  whiten)  for 
\  day  ;  rinse,  and  boil  in  clear  water  until  very  tender.  It 
may  take  all  day. 

VEAL. 

1.  End  of  loin,  for  roasts. 

2.  Loin,  for  roast  or  cutlets. 

3.  Rib,  for  roast  or  chops. 

4.  Neck,  for  stew  or  soup. 

5.  Head,  for  soup  or  jelly. 

6.  Sweet-breads — Located  between 
the   neck   and  stomach,   on   each 
side  of  the  windpipe,  between   the 
fore-legs,    above   figure   6  ;  sweet- 
breads are  also  located  lower  clown, 
above   figure    8.     For    manner   of 

cooking,  see  page  9-1.  9.     Feet,  for  jelly. 

7.  Breast,  for  stew.  10.     Fillet,  for  roasting. 

8.  Shank,  for  stew  or  soup.  1 1 .     Knuckle,  for  stewing. 

FURTHER    INSTRUCTIONS. 

The  neck  is  used  for  pot-pies  and  broths. 

The  forequarter  is  divided  into  two  pieces  called  the  bris- 
ket, or  breast,  and  rack. 

The  fillet  (which  is  the  leg  and  hind  flank)  is  used  to  stuff 
and  roast,  to  stuff  and  boil,  or  for  cutlets. 

To  PREPARE  RENNET. 

Take  the  stomach  of  a  newly-killed  calf  and  hang  it  up 
without  washing  for  5  days,  as  washing  weakens  the  gastric 
juices.  Then  slip  the  curds  off  with  the  hand.  Fill  it  with 
salt  mixed  with  a  little  salt-peter,  put  it  in  a  crock,  pour  on 
I  teaspoon  vinegar  and  2  tablespoons  salt.  Cover  closely, 
and  keep  for  use.  In  six  weeks  take  a  piece  4  inches  square 


461 


Mutton. 


CUTTING  UP  MEATS. 


Pork. 


and  bottle  it  with  2\  cups  cold  water  and  2  gills  rose 
brandy,  cork  tightly,  and  shake  when  wanted.  A  table- 
spoon is  enough  for  I  quart  milk. 

MUTTON. 

1.  Head,  for  soup  in  England; 
not  used  much  here. 

2.  Neck,  for  stewing. 

3.  Shoulder,  for  roast,  or  for 
boning  and  stuffing. 

Rack,  for  chops  or  roast. 
Breast,  for  stew. 

6.  Shank,  for  soup  or  stew. 

7.  Feet,  for  jelly. 

8.  Loin,  for  roast. 

.     Flank,  for  stew. 


II. 


10.     Leg,  for  roast,  chops,  or  boiling. 


Hock,  lor  stew  or  soup. 
A  saddle  of  mutton   is  two  legs  and   two   loins  undivided.     A  chine  is  the  two 
loins,  with  the  backbone,  undivided. 

LAMB. 

We  do  not  give  a  diagram  for  cutting  up  a  lamb,  because 
the  work  is  a  very  simple  matter.  The  lamb  is  simply 
divide  \  into  two  forequarters  and  two  hindquarters. 

PORK. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  CUTTING  UP  PORK. 

Split  the  hog  through  the  spine,  take  off  each  half  of  the 
head  behind  the  ear,  then  take  off  3  or  4  pounds  next  to  the 
head  in  front  of  the  shoulder  for  sausage.  Then  take  out 
the  leaf  which  lies  around  the  kidneys,  for  lard.  Then  cut 
out  the  lean  meat,  except  what  belongs  to  the  shoulders  and 
hams.  Then  cut  off  the  shoulders  and  hams.  Cut  out  all 
the  fat  to  use  foV  lard,  which  is  a  loose  piece  in  front  ^i  the 
ham.  A  narrow  strip  from  the  belly  is  used  for  sausage- 
meat.  Cut  the  rest  up  into  pieces  convenient  for  salting. 
Smoke  the  jowl  with  the  hams.  Use  the  upper  part  of  the 
head  for  boiling,  baking,  or  head  cheese.  Hold  the  feet  over 
a  blaze  to  loosen  the  hoofs.  Scrape  very  clean,  and  after  a 
thorough  washing  they  are  ready  to  boil.  Clean  the  fat 
from  the  intestines  for  lard.  If  it  is  unfit  for  lard  use  it  for 
soap-grease.  The  smaller  intestines,  clean  for  sausage-cases. 
To  salt  down  pork,  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  the  barrel  with  an  inch  layer  of  salt  ;  over  this  put  a 
closely-packed  layer  of  meat,  and  so  continue  till  the  meat  is 


462 


Pork. 


CUTTING  UP  MEATS. 


Sausage  Cases. 


all  in.  Pour  over  it  a  strong  brine,  boiling  hot,  that  has  been 
skimmed  carefully.  Cover  with  a  board  and  weight,  that 
must  be  kept  under  the  brine.  If  the  brine  turns  red  or 
frothy,  re-heat,  skim,  and  pour  over  hot.  If  fresh  pork  is 
added,  pour  off  all  the  brine,  heat  it,  and  pour  over  scalding 
hot. 


Snout,  for  boiling. 

Cheek,  for  smoked  jowls. 

Hock,  for  boiling. 

Top  of  the  neck,  for  sausage. 

Lower  part  of  neck,  for  sausage  and  lard. 

Shoulder-top,  for  steak  and  sausage. 

Shoulder,  for  steaks  or  smoking. 

Loin,  for  chops  or  roast. 

Ham,  to  fry,  boil,  or  bake. 

Side-  meat  or  bacon. 

Tail-piece,  to  boil  or  corn. 

Feet,  for  jelly  or  pickle. 
The  harslet  is  the  heart,  liver,  and  lights. 
A  chine  is  two  loins  with  the  backbone,  un- 
divided, and  is  very  delicious,  either  baked 
or  stewed.     Hogs   make   the   best  bacon  \s 
when  they  weigh  about  1  50  pounds.    They 
should   be  fed  on  corn  six  weeks  before 
killing-time. 

To  CLEAN  CASES  FOR  SAUSAGES. 
Empty  the  intestines  without  tearing  them. 


Wash,  and 


cut  into  2  yard  lengths  ;  then  take  a  small,  smooth,  round 
stick,  fasten  one  end  of  the  case  to  the  end  of  the  stick,  and 
turn  it  inside  out.  Wash  very  thoroughly,  scrape  clean,  and 
let  soak  in  salt  water  till  ready  to  use.  They  should  look 
transparent  and  very  thin.  For  manner  of  rendering  lard, 
see  recipe  on  page  102. 


DISEASES  OF  ANIMALS. 


THEHORSE.  CATTLE.  SHEEP.  SWINE. 


UITE  a  number  of  requests  have  been  sent 
us  for  a  chapter  giving  recipes  for  the 
common  diseases  of  animals.  In  response 
to  these  calls,  we  have  had  this  chapter 
prepared.  Of  course  in  a  work  of  this 
character,  and  in  the  limited  space  at  our 
disposal,  we  cannot  pretend  to  give  an  ex- 
haustive treatise  on  these  diseases,  but  the  remedies  given 
are  believed  to  be  reliable  and  trustworthy,  and  we  hope 
they  will  be  found  useful  in  the  more  ordinary  cases  which 
from  time  to  time  arise. 


THE  HORSE. 


BIG  HEAD. 
Take  of  Oil  of  spike  ..............  I  ounce.  ' 

Oil  of  hemlock  ...........  I  ounce. 

Turpentine  ...............  2  ounces. 

Linseed  oil  ...............  \  ounce.         Mix. 

Apply  to  the  parts  affected.     Feed  I  tablespoon  of  jimpson 
seed  every  other  day  until  you  have  given  3  doses. 

BOTS. 
Take  of  Chloroform  ...............  I  ounce. 

Linseed  oil  ..............  I  pint.         Mix. 

Give  as  a  drench.     Keep  salt  constantly  within  reach  of 
the  horse. 

COLIC. 
Take  of  Laudanum  ................  \  ounce. 

Pulverized  asafcetida  .......  2  ounces. 

Ether  ....................  I  ounce. 

Peppermint  ...............  i  ounce. 

Warm  water  ..............  I  pint.         Mix. 

Give  as  a  drench.     Rubbing  the  horse's  belly  with  turpen- 
tine is  also  one  of  the  best  remedies  for  colic. 


464 

Curb.  THE   HORSE.  Found«r. 

CURB. 

Take  of  Tincture  of  Cantharides.  .  .1  ounce. 

Tincture  of  iodine I  ounce.         Mix. 

Apply  to  parts  affected.  Leave  on  3  days.  Then  dress 
with  grease  or  simple  cerate  for  3  days,  and  apply  again. 

DIARRHCEA. 

Take  of  Tincture  of  gentian I  ounce. 

Tincture  of  catechu I  ounce. 

Sweet  spirits  of  niter I  ounce. 

Mix  in  a  pint  of  gruel  and  give  every  2  or  3  hours. 

DISTEMPER,  OR  INFLUENZA. 

Take  of  Carbonate  of  iron I  drachm. 

Powdered  gentian 3  drachms. 

Flaxseed  meal 2  drachms. 

Mix  into  a  thick  paste  with  molasses,  and  give  this  dose 
morning  and  evening  by  placing  on  the  root  of  the  tongue. 
Steam  the  head  and  apply  bran  poultices  to  the  throat. 

EYE  LOTION. 

Take  of  Gum  camphor 20  grains. 

Sugar  of  lead 10  grains. 

Dissolve  in  I  pint  soft  water.  Apply  with  a  feather. 
Secure  the  horse,  and  turn  the  upper  lid  inside  out  to  see  if 
a  speck  of  dirt  is  present  when  the  eye  appears  inflamed.  If 
there  is,  remove  it. 

FARCY,   OR   GLANDERS. 

Take  of  Iodide  of  iron J  drachm. 

Gentian  root J  ounce.         Mix. 

Give  this  dose  twice  a  day.  Touch  the  ulcers  with  a 
strong  solution  of  chloride  of  lime  or  carbolic  acid.  Give 
nourishing  food,  daily  exercise,  and  attend  to  cleanliness. 
Keep  the  horse  rigidly  separate  from  other  animals. 

FISTULA,    OR  POLL  EVIL. 

Apply  the  ''blistering  ointment"  (which  see)  to  the  parts 
affected.  When  blistered,  make  an  incision  to  evacuate  mat- 
ter, and  apply  a  solution  of  i  grain  of  choride  of  zinc  to 
i  ounce  of  water. 

FOUNDER. 

Take  of  Aloes 5  drachms. 

Podophyllin i  drachm. 

Capsicum i  drachm.         Mix. 

Give  this  to  physic  him.     Take  off  the  shoes  and  put,  his 


465 

THE  HORSE.  Staggers. 


feet  in  hot  water,  one  at  a  time,  if  the  horse  is  very  stiff,  or 
bleed  freely  from  the  thigh  vein. 

HEAVES. 

Take  of  Balsam  of  copaiba I  ounce. 

Balsam  of  fir I  ounce. 

Calcined  magnesium  sufficient  to  make  into  a  ball.     Givex 
a  ball,  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  every  morning  for  10  days, 

LAMPAS. 

Take  of  alum  J  ounce  and  the  same  amount  of  double- 
refined  sugar,  mixed  with  a  little  honey.  Rub  on  the  swell- 
ing 2  or  3  times  a  day. 

LUNG  FEVER. 

Take  of  Tincture  of  digitalis 2  ounces. 

Tincture  veratrum  viride. .  .2  ounces. 

Tincture  of  aconite I  ounce. 

Ether i  ounce.         Mix. 

Put  I  tablespoon  on  the  tongue  every  30  minutes  until  3 
doses  have  been  given.  Wait  4  hours,  and  if  not  better 
repeat. 

MANGE. 

Physic  the  horse.  Wash  the  skin  with  soap  suds,  and 
apply  a  strong  sulphur  ointment  frequently.  Attend  to  the 
cleanliness  of  the  stable,  and  feed  the  horse  well. 

RINGBONE. 

Apply  the  "blistering  ointment"  (which  see)  to  the  parts 
affected,  and  leave  on  for  3  days.  Then  dress  with  grease 
for  3  days.  Wash  off,  and  apply  ointment  again. 

SCRATCHES. 

Cut  the  hair  off  close.  Wash  the  legs  with  strong  soap- 
suds or  with  warm  vinegar  saturated  with  salt.  Dry  and 
smear  them  over  with  lard  or  mutton  tallow. 

SPAVIN  AND  SPLINT. 
Same  treatment  as  "Ringbone." 

STAGGERS. 

Take  of  Barbadoes  aloes 6  drachms. 

Calomel 2  drachms. 

Oil  of  Peppermint 20  drops. 

Tincture  of  cardamons 2  ounces. 

Warm  water I  pint.         Mix. 

Give  as  a  drench. 
*57 


466  

String  Halt.  THE  HORSE.  Galling  OH. 

STRING  HALT. 

Get  a  land  turtle.  Try  out  the  grease,  and  rub  it  on  the 
inside  muscles. 

THICK  WIND. 

Take  of  Oil  of  Sassafras I  ounce. 

Spirits  of  camphor I  ounce. 

Aqua  ammonia ^  ounce. 

Oil  of  cedar J  ounce. 

Oil  of  cajeput \  ounce. 

Hickory-nut  oil \  ounce. 

Oil  of  origanum \  ounce.         Mix. 

Apply  to  the  larynx. 

WINDGALLS. 

Apply  tight  bandages  soaked  with  decoction  of  white  oak 
bark.  Blister  old  windgalls.  Do  not  puncture  them — it 
may  cause  permanent  lameness. 

BLISTERING  OINTMENT. 

Take  of  Corrosive  sublimate I  ounce. 

Gum  camphor I  ounce. 

Oil  of  origanum \  ounce. 

Turpentine . i  pint.         Mix. 

HOOF   OINTMENT. 

Take  of  Spirits  of  turpentine I  pound. 

Tallow i  pound. 

Tar i  pound. 

Black  resin i  pound. 

Lard 2  pounds.         Mix. 

LINIMENT  FOR  MAN  OR  BEAST. 

Take  of  Alcohol i  pint. 

Oil  of  origanum i  ounce. 

Fireweed i  ounce. 

Oil  of  spike i  ounce. 

Spirits  hartshorn 2  ounces.         Mix. 

MERCHANTS'  GARGLING  OIL. 

Take  of  Linseed  oil 2 \  gallons. 

Spirits  turpentine 2\  gallons. 

Petroleum ". .  i  gallon. 

Liquor  Potass 8  ounces. 

Sap  green I  ounce.         Mix, 


Mustang  Liniment.  CATTLE.  Dry  Murrain. 

MEXICAN  MUSTANG  LINIMENT. 
Mix  equal  parts  of  petroleum,  olive  oil,  and  carbonate  of 
ammonia.     A  valuable  liniment. 

PHYSIC  FOR  HORSES. 
Take  of  Castile  soap  ..............  i  \  ounces. 

Barbadoes  aloes  ...........  7j  ounces. 

Powdered  ginger  ..........  li  ounces. 

Oil  of  aniseseed  ............  5  drachms. 

Syrup  sufficient  to  mix.     Make  into  6  balls.     Each  one  is 
a  dose. 

SKIN-FAST  AND  GENERAL  DISEASES. 
Take  of  Calomel  ..................  i  teaspoon. 

Sulphur  ..................  i  tablespoon, 

Corn  meal  ................  J  cup.         Mix. 

Let  the  animal  lick  it  from  a  pan  SG  as  not  to  waste  it.     In 
24  hours  drench  with  the  following: 
Take  of  melted  lard  ...............  ^  cup, 

Warm,  sweet  milk  .........  i  pint. 

Molasses  ..................  i  cup. 

Pulverized  copperas  ........  i  dessert-spoon.      Mix, 

Repeat  in  10  days,  and  keep  the  horse  in  a  dry  place. 
This  is  good  for  swelling,  colic,  staggers,  and  general  diseases 
of  horses,  hogs,  and  horned  cattle. 


CATTLE. 


CHOKING. 

By  giving  a  little  oil,  and  then  holding  the  wind-pipe  a 
moment  so  as  to  shut  off  the  wind  and  suddenly  starting 
the  animal,  the  obstruction  will  someitmes  be  removed.  It 
can  sometimes  be  forced  down  by  pressing  gently — very 
gently — with  a  smooth  whip-handle. 

DRY  MURRAIN,  OR  FARDEL-BOUND. 

Take  of  Barbadoes  aloes i  ounce. 

Common  soda i  ounce. 

Oil  of  turpentine •„••••!  ounce. 

Glauber  salts i  pound. 

Hot  water J  pint. 

Mix  and  give  as  i  dose  in  \  gallon  of  thin  gruel.  One 
half  this  dose  to  cattle  under  2  years  old. 


468 

Distemper.  CATTLE.  Scouting. 

DISTEMPER. 

Give  3  quarts  tar-water  4  times  a  day,  and  gradually  lessen 
the  dose. 

GARGET,  OR  CAKED  UDDER. 

Apply  an  ointment  made  of  equal  parts  of  camphor  and 
blue  ointment  to  the  parts  affected.  Physic  the  animal  and 
remove  the  milk  frequently. 

HIDE-BOUND. 

Take  of  Ginger 2  ounces. 

Allspice 2  ounces. 

Mustard 2  ounces. 

Molasses I  pint. 

Mix  in  2  quarts  warm  water.  Give  night  and  morning  in 
2  doses. 

HOVEN,  OR   BLOWN. 
Physic  and  keep  from  rich  food. 

LICE  ON  CATTLE. 

Mix  J  pint  kerosene  in  2  gallons  of  water.  Apply  with  a 
stiff  brush  twice  a  week.  Wash  the  wood-work  with  lime- 
water. 

PHYSIC  FOR  CATTLE. 

Take  of  Powdered  ginger 2  ounces. 

Powdered  anise-seed 2  ounces. 

Epsom  salts I  pound. 

Molasses 4  ounces. 

Mix  in  3  pints  boiling  water,  and  give  at  blood  warm  heat. 

RED-WATER. 

Take  of  Armenian  bole i  ounce. 

Dragon's  blood J  ounce. 

Castile  soap 2  ounces. 

Powdered  alum I   drachm. 

Mix  in  i  quart  water  and  at  blood  heat.  Repeat  in  12 
hours,  if  not  better. 

RINGWORM. 

Wash  with  soap  suds  and  apply  a  light  coat  of  tincture 
of  iodine. 

SCOURING. 

Take  of  Castor  oil i   ounce. 

Prepared  chalk i   teaspoon. 

Powdered  rhubarb 2  drachms.  Mix 

in  i  pint  warm  milk.     If  no  better,  repeat  in  36  or  48  hours. 


Sore  Throat.  SHEEP.  Scabs  and  Ticks. 

SORE  TEATS. 

Wash  the  teats  clean  with  soap  suds  and  ar.ply  cream 
or  grease  with  lard.  Draw  the  milk  with  a  milking-tube 
instead  of  the  usual  way. 

TAR-  WATER  FOR  CATTLE. 

Put  I  quart  of  tar  in  4  quarts  water.  Stir  for  15  minutes, 
then  let  it  stand  for  half  an  hour,  pour  off,  and  it  is  ready 
for  use. 


SHEEP. 


BLOATING. 

If  near  a  stream  of  water,  throw  the  animal  in  and  let  it 
swim  a  while.  Give  a  dose  of  physic,  if  it  can  be  obtained 
readily. 

DIARRHOEA,   OR  SCOURS. 

Give  2  drachms  laudanum  and  2  ounces  castor  oil,  mixed. 
One-third  of  this  dose  for  lambs.  One  part  white  of  egg  to 
six  parts  water  may  be  given  freely. 

FOOT-ROT. 

Pare  off  all  surplus  hoof,  though  not  enough  to  start  the 
blood.  Wash  the  foot  and  dip  it  in  tar.  Keep  on  dry  pas- 
turage and  apply  again  in  a  week,  if  necessary.  Sprinkle 
dry  air-slaked  lime  on  the  floor  if  kept  in-doors. 

FOUL  NOSES. 

Give  some  tar-water  (which  see),  and  apply  a  little  tar  to 
the  nose.  Cure  not  difficult. 

PHYSIC  FOR  SHEEP. 
Take  of  Castor  oil  ................  2  tablespoons. 

Laudanum  ..........  ....15  drops.     Mix. 

One-third  to  J  this  dose  for  lambs. 

SORE  MOUTH. 

Mix  fresh  butter  and  sulphur,  and  apply  to  the  parts 
affected. 

SCABS  AND  TICKS. 
Boil  i  pound  tobacco   leaves  in  2  gallons  water.     When 


47Q  _  __ 

Coughs.  SWINE.  Worms. 

cold,  add  \  barrel  cold  water  and  dip  the  sheep  (all  but  the 
head)  in  this  mixture.  Apply  some  to  the  sheep's  head 
with  the  hand.  This  is  the  best  remedy  known. 


SWIME. 


COUGHS  AND   COLDS. 

Physic  a  little  with  castor  oil  and  sulphur  and  give  a 
warming  diet. 

'DIARRHOEA. 
Give  2  ounces  of  olive  oil  mixed  with  2  drachms  laudanum. 

HOG  CHOLERA. 

Thought  to  be  incurable.  A  good  preventive  when  it  is 
prevailing,  is  to  put  ashes  or  charcoal  in  the  trough  once  a 
week,  and  slightly  acidulate  the  drinking  water  with  sulphuric 
acid. 

KIDNEY    WORM. 

It  is  said  that  as  much  arsenic  as  can  be  put  on  a  dime 
will  always  cure  this  disease. 

LICE. 
Same  as  for  cattle  (which  see). 

SNIFFLE  DISEASE. 
Take  of  Muriate  of  ammonia  .......  ^  drachm. 

Gum  camphor  .............  8  grains. 

Molasses  ............  .....  i  teaspoon.          Mix. 

SORE   THROAT. 

Take  a  piece  of  indigo  as  large  as  a  hickory-nut,  mash  up 
in  water  and  pour  it  down. 

SOWS   EATING   THEIR   PIGS. 

Cover  the  pigs  with  a  paste  made  of  aloes  and  water. 
The  bitter  taste  disgusts  the  sow. 

WORMS. 
Sulphur  mixed  with  the  food  is  the  best  remedy. 


ROAD-MAKING. 


T  is  difficult  to  exaggerate  the  importance  of 
good  roads  to  the  farmers  who  are  obliged  to 
transport  their  produce  to  market,  and  we  insert 
the  cut  which  is  taken  from  the  report  of  the  De- 
partment of  Agriculture  for  the  State  of  Illinois 
by  special  request,  as  it  shows  the  best  manner 
of  grading  a  road-bed.  It  is  advisable  that  the 
road-bed  be  at  least  25  feet  wide  with  the  ditches  not  less 
than  7  feet  wide,  and  9  feet  is  preferable.  This  extreme 
•<vidth  cf  road-bed  (and  water-ways)  will  leave  I2j  feet  on 
<>ach  side  for  the  planting  of  shade-trees,  and  yet  give  ample 
space  for  pedestrians.  Ditches  should  begin  at  nothing,  run- 
ning gradually  back  to  the  extreme  depth,  1 1  inches  to  2  feet. 
The  grade  should  be  carried  continuously  up  and  down 
fr.he  slopes  and  over  the  summits  of  the  undulations,  as  well 
as  in  the  valleys,  then  the  crowning  surface  of  the  road 
carries  the  water  naturally  to  the  water-ways  or  ditches  at 
the  side,  thus  always  leaving  the  road-bed  in  good  condition. 
One  of  the  mistakes  most  often  made  in  road-making  is 
that  the  ditches  are  left  deepest  in  the  middle,  and  rising 
alike  toward  the  road  and  the  bank,  or  deposit  near  the 
road-bed.  This  is  entirely  wrong.  They  should  slope  grad- 
ually to  a  point  at  the  outside  of  the  ditch  next  the  fence, 
and  from  thence  they  should  rise  sharply  to  the  surface  of 
the  ground.  The  reason  is  obvious  :  If  the  lowest  point  of 
the  gutter  be  in  the  center  of  the  ditches  or  near  the  road-bed, 
and  there  be  enough  water  to  wash  at  all,  there  will  be  danger 
that  the  road-way  may  be  abrased,  or  eaten  into  by  water.  If 
deepest  next  the  fence,  then  water  will  wear  from,  rather  than 
towards  the  road-way,  and  all  difficulty  of  washing  will  be 
avoided.  Thus  the  whole  when  completed  should  present 
an  appearance  as  hereafter  illustrated. 

A  road  thus  made,  graded  high,  with  ample  ditches  on  each 
side,  will  be  good  for  fully  ten  months  in  the  year.  It  is  as 
perfect  a  road  as  can  be  made  in  a  prairie  country,  and  so 
cheaply,  that  the  ordinary  road-tax  for  three  years  will  fur- 
nish good  and  sufficient  earth-roads,  well-graded,  on  every 
sectional  line  in  every  prairie  township. 

We  desire  to  state  that  we  receive  no  pay,  directly  or  in- 
directly, for  the  insertion  of  this  notice.  We  believe  it  will 
contribute  a  little  to  the  attainment  of  that  great  desider- 
atum, good  roads  in  the  farming  districts. 


472 


MRS.    OWENS1    COOK   BOOK 


Table  for  10  Feet.  ROAD-MAKING.  Table  for  12  Feet. 

We  give  the  following  tables  for  the  benefit  of  farmers 
interested  in  making  levees,  roads,  or  turnpikes.  It  is  con- 
tributed by  the  Wauchope  Road  Grader  Manufacturing 
Company  of  Chicago.  The  tables  show  the  measure- 
ment of  embankments  of  stations  of  100  feet  in  length,  with 
slopes  i£  horizontal  to  I  perpendicular  : 

WIDTH  OF  ROAD-BED  ON  TOP  TEN  FEET. 


Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Hight. 

Yds. 

Hight. 

Yds. 

Hight 

.     Yds. 

Hight. 

Yds. 

Hight. 

Yds. 

0.0.  . 

0.0 

2.0.  . 

96.3 

4.0. 

.237.0 

6.0. 

.442.2 

8.0.  .  . 

651.9 

I  .  . 

3-8 

I  .  . 

102.3 

I  . 

.245.2 

i  . 

.432.6 

I.  .  . 

664.5 

2.  . 

7.6 

2.  . 

108.4 

2. 

.253.6 

2  . 

.443.2 

2. 

677.3 

3-- 

1  1.6 

3-- 

I  14.6 

3- 

.262.0 

3- 

•453-8 

3--- 

690.1 

4.. 

15.7 

4.. 

120.9 

4- 

.270.5 

4- 

.  464.6 

4..  . 

703.1 

$•• 

19.9 

5-- 

127.3 

5- 

.279.2 

5- 

•475-5 

5... 

716.2 

6.. 

24.2 

6.. 

133-9 

6. 

.287.9 

6. 

.486.4 

6... 

729.4 

7" 

28.6 

7-. 

140.5 

7- 

.296.8 

7- 

.497.5 

7... 

742.7 

8.. 

33-2 

8.. 

147-3 

8. 

.305.8 

8. 

.  508.7 

8... 

756.1 

9.. 

37-8 

9.. 

I54.I 

9- 

.314.9 

9- 

.52O.I 

9... 

769.7 

I 

.0.  . 

42.6 

3.0.. 

161.1 

5.0. 

.324.1 

7.0. 

•531-5 

9.0  .  . 

783.3 

i  .  . 

47-5 

i  .  . 

168.2 

i  . 

-333-4 

i  . 

•  543-0 

i.  .  . 

797.1 

2  . 

52.4 

2.  . 

1754 

2. 

.342.8 

2. 

5547 

2..  . 

811.0 

3-- 

57-5 

3-. 

182.7 

3- 

.352.4 

3- 

.566.4 

3... 

824.9 

4.. 

62.7 

4.. 

190.1 

4- 

.362.0 

4- 

•578.3 

4... 

839-0 

5-. 

68.1 

5-- 

197.7 

5. 

.371.8 

5- 

•  590.3 

5... 

853-2 

6.. 

73-5 

6.. 

205.3 

6 

.381.6 

6. 

.602.4 

6... 

867.6 

7-. 

79.0 

7" 

213.1 

7- 

.391.6 

7- 

.614.6 

7... 

882.0 

8.. 

84.7 

8.. 

22  1.  0 

8. 

.401.7 

8. 

.626.9 

8... 

896.5 

9.. 

90.4 

9.. 

228.9 

9- 

.411.9 

9- 

•639-3 

9... 

911.2 

WIDTH  OF  ROAD-BED  ON  TOP  TWELVE  FEET. 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Hight. 

Yds. 

Hight. 

Yds. 

Hight 

.     Yds. 

Hight. 

Yds. 

Hight. 

Yds. 

0.0.  . 

O.O 

2.O.  . 

III.  I 

4.0. 

.266.7 

6.0. 

.466.7 

8.0.  .  . 

7II.I 

I  .  . 

4-5 

I  .  . 

II7.8 

I  . 

.275.6 

i  . 

.477.8 

i..  . 

724-5 

2  . 

9.1 

2.  . 

124.7 

2  . 

.284.7 

2. 

.489.1 

2 

738.0 

1 

J)  •  • 

13.8 

3-- 

I3I.6 

3- 

.293-8 

3- 

.500.5 

3-.. 

751.6 

4-  • 

18.7 

4.. 

138.7 

4- 

.303.1 

4- 

.5I2.O 

4... 

765.3 

5-- 

23-6 

5-. 

145-8 

5- 

.312.5 

5. 

.523.6 

5... 

779-2 

6.. 

28.7 

6.. 

I53.I 

6. 

.322.0 

6. 

.535.3 

6... 

793-1 

7  •  • 

33-8 

7-- 

160.5 

7- 

•331.6 

7- 

.547.2 

7... 

807.2 

8.. 

39-  i 

8.. 

168.0 

8. 

.341.3 

8. 

.559.1 

8... 

821.3 

9" 

44-5 

9" 

175.6 

9- 

.351.2 

9- 

.571.2 

9... 

835.6 

AND   USEFUL    HOUSEHOLD    HINTS. 

473 

Table  for  12  Feet. 

ROAD-  MAKING. 

Table  for  14  Feet. 

WIDTH  OF  ROAD-BED  ON  TOP  TV;  EL  VK  FEET—  Continued. 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Hight. 

Yds. 

Hight. 

Yds. 

Might 

.     Yds. 

Hi-ht. 

Yds. 

Hight. 

Yds. 

.1.0.  . 

50.0 

3.O.. 

183.3 

5.0. 

.361.1 

7^. 

•583-3 

9.0... 

850.0 

I  .  . 

55-6 

I  .  . 

191.2 

I  . 

.371.2 

I  . 

.595.6 

I..  . 

864.5 

2.  . 

61.3 

2  . 

I99.I 

2  . 

.381.3 

i 

.608.0 

2..  . 

879.1 

3-- 

67.2 

3  -  • 

207.2 

3- 

.391.6 

3  - 

.620.5 

3-.. 

893.8 

4-  • 

73-1 

4-  • 

215-3 

4- 

.402.0 

4- 

•633-1 

4... 

908.7 

$>• 

79.2 

5-- 

223.6 

5- 

.412.5 

5- 

.645-8 

5... 

923.6 

6.. 

85-3 

6.. 

232.0 

6. 

.423.1 

6. 

.658.7 

6... 

938.7 

7-. 

91.6 

7-. 

240.5 

7- 

.433-8 

7- 

.671.6 

7... 

953-8 

8.. 

98.0 

8.  . 

249.1 

8. 

.444-7 

8. 

.684.7 

8..  . 

969.1 

9-- 

104.5 

9.. 

257.8 

9- 

.455.6 

9- 

.697.8 

9..  . 

984.5 

WIDTH  OF 

ROAD-BED  ON  TOP 

FOURTEEN 

FEET. 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Cubic 

Hight. 

Yds. 

Hight, 

,     Yds. 

Hight 

.     Yds. 

Hight, 

,       Yds. 

Hight. 

Yds. 

0.0.  . 

O.O 

2.O.  . 

125-9 

4.0. 

.296.3 

•6.0. 

.511.1 

8.0... 

770.4 

I  .  . 

5-2 

I  .  . 

1334 

I  . 

.  306.0 

i  . 

.523.0 

I..  . 

784.5 

2.  . 

10.6 

2  . 

I4I.O 

2 

.315.8 

-7 

•535.0 

2 

798.7 

3- 

id'i 

3-. 

148.6 

3- 

.325-7 

3- 

•547-2 

3-  •  • 

8I3.I 

4.  . 

21.6 

4.  • 

156.4 

4- 

.335-7 

4- 

.559-4 

4..  . 

827.6 

5-- 

27-3 

5-- 

164.4 

5- 

•345-8 

5- 

.57L8 

5-v 

842.1 

6.. 

33.1 

6.. 

172.4 

6. 

•356.1 

6. 

.584.2 

6... 

856.8 

7-- 

39.0 

7-. 

180.5 

7  • 

•  366.4 

7- 

.596.8 

7... 

871.6 

8.. 

45.0 

8.. 

188.7 

8. 

.376.9 

8. 

.609.5 

8... 

886.5 

9.. 

51.2 

9.. 

I97.I 

9- 

.387.5 

9- 

.622.3 

9... 

901.5 

I.O.  . 

57.4 

3-0.. 

205.6 

5.0. 

.398.1 

7.0. 

.635.2 

9.0.  .  . 

9l6.7 

i  .  . 

63.8 

i  .  . 

2I4.I 

i  . 

.408.9 

i  . 

.648.2 

i.  .  . 

93L9 

2.  . 

70.2 

2  . 

222.8 

2  . 

.419.9 

o 

.661.3 

o 

947-3 

3-  • 

76.8 

3-. 

231.6 

*•> 
0  " 

.430.9 

i 

j  • 

.674.6 

3-  •  • 

962.7 

4-  • 

83.5 

4" 

240.5 

4- 

.442.0 

4- 

.687.9- 

4... 

978.3 

5-- 

90.3 

5" 

249.5 

5- 

•453-2 

5- 

.701.4 

5... 

994.0 

6.. 

97.2 

6.. 

258.7 

6. 

.  464.6 

6. 

.715.0 

6.. 

1009.8 

7-- 

104.2 

7.- 

267.9 

7. 

.476.1 

7- 

.728.6 

7V 

1025.7 

8. 

111.3 

8.. 

277.3 

8. 

.487.6 

8. 

.742.4 

8.. 

1041.7 

9" 

118.6 

9.. 

286.7 

9- 

•499-3 

9- 

•7564 

9-- 

1057.8 

The  cut  represents  the  road  which  was  graded  with  the 
Wauchope  Grader  at  a  cost  of  I  and  7-10  of  a  cent  per  cubic 
foot  of  earth  removed,  or  at  an  average  cost  of  only  $68  per 
mile  of  road  made,  and  for  which  the  above  grader,  now 
called  the  New  Era  Grader,  received  the  $  100  premium  offered 
by  the  Illinois  State  Board  of  Agriculture. 


474 


MRS.   OWEHS'    COOK    BOOK 


Premium  Road. 


ROAO-MAKINQ. 


(68  P«r  Mil*. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


ANT  COLONY— TO  DESTROY. 

Chas.  H.  Hodge,  Sherman,  Texas. 

Take  4  pieces  of  common  tin  eave-trough,  each  18  inches 
long.  Join  them  together  to  form  a  square,  and  lay  on  the 
ant-hill.  Bank  the  dirt  up  even  with  both  edges.  In  the 
center  of  one  section  make  a  hole  to  fit  a  small  tube.  Any 
tubing  will  do,  or  a  piece  of  tin  a  foot  long  can  be  bent,  or 
use  a  tall  lamp  chimney.  Let  it  run  from  the  hole  in  the 
eave-trough  down  into  the  closely-fitted  cover  on  a  baking- 
powder  can  sunk  in  the  earth.  The  ants  in  going  to  and 
from  the  ant-hill  will  naturally  come  to  the  eave-trough  and 
crawl  in.  Then  when  once  in  they  cannot  crawl  up  the 
smooth  sides,  and  will  eventually  reach  the  opening.  Then 
they  will  drop  down  into  the  can,  and  as  fast  as  the  can  is 
filled,  it  can  be  emptied,  and  the  ants  killed.  In  one  day  I 
emptied  18  two-pound  cans  that  were  filled  with  these  pests. 

To  get  rid  of  red  or  black  ants  in  your  pantry,  sprinkle 
salt  over  the  shelves. 

CABBAGE  WORM. 

Common  black  pepper  ground  and  sifted  over  the  plants 
will  kill  every  moth  without  fail.  Three  or  four  times  in  a 
season  will  insure  the  plants. 

MUSTARD— TO  CULTIVATE. 

Sow  a  square  yard  of  ground  with  common  mustard.  The 
seed  may  be  ground  as  wanted,  and  although  it  will  look 
brown  instead  of  yellow,  will  have  a  better  taste  than  that 
bought  at  the  drugstores,  which  is  frequently  mixed  with 
flour. 

WATER-CASKS—TO  CLEAN. 

Scour  the  inside  with  sand,  then  apply  a  sprinkling  of 
charcoal  dust.  Or,  rinse  with  a  strong  solution  of  oil  of  vit- 
riol and  water.  Either  method  will  rid  them  of  foulness. 

FROTHING  OF  CREAM— TO  STOP. 
In  cold  weather  set  the  churn  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water. 
Remove  as  soon  as  the  churn  is  heated  through.     In  warm 
weather  set  the  churn  in  cold  water.     If  hot  water  is  poured 
into  the  cream,  the  butter  is  apt  to  be  white  and  oily. 

KEEPING  UP  SASH  WINDOWS. 
Bore    3  or  4  holes  in  the  sides  of  the  sash,  into   which 


476 

Foot-Warmers.  MISCELLANEOUS.  Cement 

insert  common  bottle-cork,  projecting  about  i-i6of  an  inch. 
These  will  press  against  the  window  frames  along  the  usual 
groove  and  by  their  elasticity  support  the  sash  at  any  height 
which  may  be  required. 

FOOT-WARMERS. 

A  bag  of  sand  well  heated  is  the  best  possible  article  for 
warming  the  feet.  It  is  well  to  have  two  or  more  of  them  in 
the  house.  Excellent  for  elderly  people  or  invalids.  The 
openings  should  be  sewed  well,  and  a  binding  put  over  it, 
The  bag  is  best  made  of  flannel,  and  covered  with  a  cotton 
one  that  can  be  removed  and  washed. 

IMPROVISED  LEGGINGS. 

Wrap  some  newspapers  about  the  legs,  and  tie  them 
securely  with  twine.  They  are  the  best  possible  protection 
from  cold,  and  can  be  worn  through  a  deep  snow  and  then 
thrown  away  and  replenished  with  fresh  papers  Never 
mind  the  looks.  Folks  don't  stop  you  in  a  snowdrift  to  look 
at  the  cut  of  your  clothes. 

WATER-PROOF  BLACKING. 

One-half  pound  gum  shellac  ;  cover  with  alcohol,  cork, 
and  let  stand  3  days,  shaking  occasionally.  Then  add  a 
piece  of  gum  camphor  the  size  of  art  egg.  Let  stand  as 
above,  and  add  I  ounce  of  lampblack.  Black  boots  or  shoes 
with  a  sponge  or  cloth. 

TO  PRESERVE  BOOT  AND  SHOE  SOLES. 
Warm  the  soles  and  apply  a  heavy  coat  of  warm  coal  tar. 
Dry  it  in,  and  apply  2  more  coats  before  wearing  them. 
Smear  the  edges  as  long  as  they  will  absorb  the  tar.  They 
will  wear  like  horn,  and  once  giving  it  a  trial  will  convince 
the  most  skeptical  of  its  value.  The  tar  costs  but  a  few 
cents  at  gas  works.  Warm  it  on  the  stove  in  a  tin  dish. 

A  CEMENT  FOR  RUBBER  BOOTS. 
Cut  gutta-percha  in  small  pieces,  and  dissolve  it  in  benzine 
to  a  thin  mucilage.  Clean  the  boots  free  from  grease  with 
benzine  and  a  sponge,  and  apply  the  patch  covered  with  the 
gutta-percha  cement.  The  cement  should  be  warmed  by 
putting  the  bottle  in  hot  water  before  it  is  used. 


INDEX. 


Broth 

Browned  flour 

Caramel 

Clarifying  soup 

Coloring  soups 1 1 

Croutons 

Dressing  for  chicken..    . . 
Dumplings  for  soup   .... 

Egg  balls 

Force-meat  balls 

Hints  for  soup 

Noodles 

Parsley,  to  dry 

Soup-balls,  German 

Soup  powder 

Soup  stock 

Barley  soup 

Bean  soup 

Beef  soup  with  rice 

Bouillon 

Brown  fish  soup 

Brown  rabbit  soup. 

Catfish  soup 

Clam   soup 

Chestnut  soup 

Chicken  soup 

Chicken  soups 

Chicken  vegetable  soup.  . 
Confederate  Army  soup. . 

Cream  soup  of  fish 

Fish  soups 

Game  soups 

Giblet  soup 

Good  game  soup 


SOUP. 

13  Green  corn  soup 28 

1 1  Green  pea  soup 27 

1 1  Green  turtle  soup 16 

12  Gumbo  fela 20 

•12  Gumbo  soups 20 

10  Julienne  soup 26 

19  Kentucky  gumbo  soup.  . .  20 

19  Lobster  soup 14 

10  Meat  soups 21 

10  Mississippi  gumbo  soup.  .  21 
9  Mock  turtle  soup 23 

1 1  Mushroom  soup 25 

9  Mutton  soup 23 

1 1  Okra  soup 26 

12  Onion  soup 27 

13  Ox-tail  soup 22 

2  5  Oyster  soup 14 

28'  Partridge  soup 17 

22  Pea  soup 27 

2 1  Pepper-pot 15 

1 5  Potage  a  la  Reine 18 

17  Potato  soup 27 

1 5  Puree  of  fish 15 

14  Rabbit  soup 17 

25  Stock  soup 24 

18  Tomato  soup 27 

1 8  Veal  soup 22 

19  Veal  soup  with  vegetables  23 

24  Victoria  soup 24 

J5  Vegetable  soups 25 

14  Vermicelli  soup 25 

1 6  White  chicken  soup 19 

18  White  soup 26 

1 6  Wrexham  soup 24 


FISH. 


Hints  about  fish 29 

Baked  fish 32 

Baked  fish,  cream  sauce .  .   33 
Baked  fish  with  tomatoes  33 


Boiled  fish 33 

Boiled  fish,  egg  sauce..  .  .  33 
Boiled  fish,  Hollandaise..  34 
Broiled  fish 31 


482 


Oysters. 


INDEX. 


Game. 


FISH— Continued. 


Chowder,  fish, 30 

Codfish  balls 34 

Codfish  stew 34 

Crimped  salmon 30 

Eels 35 

Fish  croquettes 107 

Fried  fish 35 

Fried  perch 36 

Halibut— Creole  style...  33 


Pickled  fish 31 

Potted  fish 30 

Mackerel,  fresh 31 

Mackerel,  salt 35 

Shad  roe  with  oysters.  . .  36 

Smelts,  to  fry 36 

Stuffing  for  fish 32 

Turbans  of  fish 32 

Turbot,  fish 31 


OYSTERS— SHELL-FISH. 


Oyster  croquettes 108 

Oyster  fricassee 39 

Oyster  fritters 196 

Oyster  omelet 40 

Oyster  patties 43 

Oyster  pie 42 

Oyster  salads 124 

Oyster  sauce  with  turkey.  39 

Oyster  soup 14 

Oyster  stews 38-39 

Oysters  and  macaroni.  .  .  43 

Oysters,  broiled 41 

Oysters,  cream,  half  shell.  41 

Oysters,  deviled 40 

Oysters,  fried 40 

Oysters,  Mobile  roast.  ...  41 

Oysters  on  toast 40 

Oysters,  panned 43 

Oysters,  pickled 44 

Oysters,  raw 38 

Oysters,  scalloped 41 

Oysters,  stuffed 42 

GAME— FROGS 

Beaver,  roast 51 

Cranes 56 

Ducks,  canvas-back 56 

Ducks,  wild,  roasted 57 

Ducks,  wild,  stewed 57 

Frogs 62 

Game 49 

Hare,  jugged 52 

Herons 56 


Oysters,  steamed 44 

Oysters,  spiced 44 

Oysters,  to  use 37-3$ 

Clams 45 

Clams,  fried .  . 46 

Clam  chowder 45 

Clam  fritters 196 

Clam  pie 46 

Clam  soup 14 

Clams,  stewed 45 

Crabs 47 

Crabs,  boiled 48 

Crabs,  fried 48 

Crabs,  stuffed 47 

Crabs,  to  choose 47 

Lobsters 46 

Lobsters,  boiled 46 

Lobsters,  scalloped 47 

Lobsters,  to  choose 46 

Shrimps 47 

Shrimps,  buttered 48 

Shrimps,  potted 48 

AND  TERRAPIN. 

Larks 58 

Opossum 52 

Partridge,  broiled 58 

Partridge  pie 57 

Pemmican,  to  prepare ...  54 

Pigeons,  potted 58 

Pigeons,  stewed 59 

Pilau  of  birds 59 

Plover 50 


Eggs. 


INDEX. 


Poultry. 


GAME-FROGS  AND  TERRAPIN-Continued. 


Prairie  chickens 59-60 

Quail,  broiled 60 

Quail  pie 60 

Quail,  steamed 61 

Rabbit,  boiled,  liver  sauce  52 

Rabbit,  fried 53 

Rabbit  pie 53 

Rabbit,  roasted 53 

Rabbit  stew 53 

Raccoons 54 

Rail  birds.  .  61 


Reed  birds 6 1 

Snipe 6 1 

Squirrel  pie 54 

Terrapin  or  turtle 62 

Venison,  roast 54 

Venison  sausage 55 

Venison  steaks 55 

Venison  stew 55 

Woodchucks  and  'coons..  56 

Winged  game 56 

Woodcock  .            6 1 


Ham  and  eggs — 2  recipes 

Omelet  Celestine 

Omelet,  egg  and  orange. 

Omelet,  plain 

Omelet  saccharine 

Omelet  souffle 

Baked  eggs 

Boiled  eggs 

Chowder,  egg 

Coloring   eggs 


EGGS. 

65  Curried   eggs 66 

68  Fried  eggs 65 

68  Panned    eggs 66 

67  Pickled   eggs 6; 

68  Poached  eggs 65 

68  Preserving  eggs 64 

66  Scalloped  eggs 66 

64  Scrambled  eggs 6$ 

67  Steamed  eggs. 6$ 

64  Stuffed  eggs 67 


POULTRY. 


Chicken,  Brunswick  stew .  74 

Chicken,  filling  for  boned .  72 

Chicken,  fricasseed 73 

Chicken,  fried 74 

Chicken,  how  to  bone ...  72 

Chicken,  how  to  cut  up.  .  71 

Chicken  pie 75 

Chicken  pot-pie 75 

Chicken,  pressed 75 

Chicken,  smothered 73 

Chicken  stews 74-76 


Chicken  with  oysters.  ...  75 

Duck,  apple  stuffing  for.  .  78 

Ducks,  roast 78 

Ducks,  stuffing  for 78 

German  relish 78 

Geese  livers,  fried ?8 

Goose,  roast. 77 

Turkey,  filling  for  boned .  72 

Turkey,  fried' 77 

Turkey,   oyster  dressing.  77 

Turkey,  roast 76 


MEATS-Beef. 

Steaming  meats 81     Beefsteak,  round 84 


Beef  a  la  mode 83 

Beefsteak,  broiled. 84 

Beefsteak,  English 85 

Beefsteak,  mock  duck, ...  83 


Beefsteak,  stuffed 83 

Beefsteak,  to  make  tender  85 
Beefsteak,  with  onions. .  .  84 
Boiled  dinner 81 


484 

Meats.  INDEX.  HasX 

MEATS-Beef-Continued. 

Dried  beef. 85  Roast 82 

Dumplings,  Rhode  Island  89  Sausage  cake 86 

Corned  beef  to  press 86  Spiced  beef. 87 

Heart 86  Stew 84 

Kidneys — 2  recipes 87  Stuffed  pressed 86 

Liver — 3  recipes 87-88  Tongue 85 

Pot  roast 82  Tripe — 3  recipes 88 

Pressed 86  Yorkshire  pudding 83 

MEATS-Veal. 

Cutlets,  veal 90  Marbled,  veal 90 

Liver — 2  recipes 9J-92  Pot-pie,  veal., 89 

Sweet  breads — 3  recipes.   91  Roast  veal 89 

Loaf,  veal 90  Stuffed  veal 89 

MEATS-Mutton. 

Boiled  mutton 93  Lamb,  leg  of, -to  roast. . .  93 

Chops,  mutton 93  Lamb,  with  green  peas. .   94 

Irish  stew 93  Macaroni  mutton 93 

Lamb,  blanquette 94  Roast   mutton 92 

MEATS-Pork. 

Bacon  and  cabbage 98  Pigs'  feet 96-97 

Bacon  and  snaps 98  Pork  and  fried  apples..  .  .   98 

Chine — 2  recipes 95  Pork  and  liver 98 

Ham,  cold-boiled 100  Pork-pie,  English 95 

Ham  noodles 99  Pork  roast 94 

Ham  omelet 99  Pork  toast 97 

Ham,  to  stuff 99  Pork,  to  keep  fresh 96 

Head  cheese 97  Souse 97 

Parsnip  stew 97  Spare-ribs 95 

Pig,  roast 96  Tenderloins — 2  recipes.  .  .96 

MEATS    Curing  Meats. 

Beef  corning 100  Lard,  to  render 102 

Beef,  dried,  to  cure 101  Mutton,  corned IOI 

Beef,  pickle 100  Sausage — 3  recipes.  .  101-102 

Ham,  to  cure 101  Tongues,  corning 100 

HASH. 

Beef  balls  and  patties.  103- 104  Meat  pies — 2  recipes. .  . .  104 

Dumplings,  meat 106  Minced  mutton 106 

Fish  cake 107  Minced  veal 105 

Fricassee  of  beef 104  Omelet,  meat 104 

Hash,  corned  beef. 105  Ragout 105 

Hash,    union 106  Scrapple 106 

Hash,  veal 105  Wonders 106 


485 


Croquettes. 


INDEX. 


Catsups. 


CROQUETTES. 


Croquettes,  how  fried ....  107 

Bread  croquettes no 

Chicken  croquettes 109 

Egg  croquettes 108 

Fish  croquettes 107 

Green  corn  croquettes.  . .  109 


Lobster  croquette.  .....  108 

Oyster  croquettes 108 

Potato  croquettes, ......  1 10 

Rice  croquettes 1 10 

Salmon  croquettes 108 

Veal  croquettes 109 


SAUCES. 

Caper  butter 112     Hollandaise  sauce 113 

Curry  powder 1 1 1     German  sauce 1 16 

Mustard,  Kentucky  .....112     Lobster  sauce 114 

Soy,  green  tomato 115     Maitre  d'hotel  sauce 112 

Sweet  herbs in     Mint  sauce 114 

Anchovy  sauce 115     Mushroom  sauce 114 

Anchovy  sauce  (essence)..  1 1 5     Onion  sauce 114 

Asparagus  sauce 1 14     Parsley  sauce 113 

Celery  sauce 113  Queen  of  Oude   sauce.    .116 

Chili  sauce 115     Shrimp  sauce 115 

Cream  sauce 112     Sour  sauce 113 

Drawn-butter  sauce 112     Tartar  sauce 112 

Egg  sauce  for  fish 113     White  sauce 113 

GARNISHES. 

Remarks  and  suggestions 117-118 

SALADS. 

To  crisp  celery,  etc 119     Salad,  orange 121 

To  fringe  celery  stalks.  .  .  119     Salad,  oyster 124 

Dressing,  French  salad. .  .  1 19     Salad,  potato 122 

Dressing,  lettuce 120     Salad  Russian 125 

Dressing,  Mayonnaise.. .  .  1 19     Salad   salmon 124 

Horse-radish,  to  keep.  .  .  125     Salad,  summer 120 

Relish,  camp 125     Salad,  winter 121 

Salad,  chicken 123-124     Salmagundi 125 

Salad,  German  potato. .  .  123  Slaw,  cooked  dressing.  . .  121 

Salad,  hot  egg 123     Slaw,  cold  dressing 12 1 

Salad,  lettuce 1 20     Slaw,   hot 122 

Salad,    lobster.  . 124     Water-cresses 122 

CATSUPS. 

Spiced  currants 128     Grape  catsup., 126 

Spiced  peaches 128     Mushroom  catsup 127 

Cucumber  catsup,  green.  126     Pepper  catsup 126 

Currant  catsup 126  Tomato  catsup — 3  recipes  127 

Gooseberry  catsup 126     Walnut  catsup 128 


486 


Vegetables. 


INDEX. 


Weights  and  Measures. 


VEGETABLES. 


Preparing  for  cooking.. . .  129 

Artichokes 141 

Asparagus 140 

Beans — 5  recipes.  . . .  136-137 

Beets — 2  recipes 141 

Cabbage — 6  recipes. .  139-140 

Carrots 143 

Cauliflower — 2  recipes .  .  .  140 

Celery 147 

Corn,  dried 148 

Corn, hulled,  lye  hominy.  148 

Corn  patties 135 

Corn  porridge 135 

Corn  pudding — 2  recipes.  135 

Corn,  roasted 147 

Corn,  stewed 135 

Corn,  green,  to  can 136 

Corn,  to  dry 148 

Cucumbers,  fried 144 

Egg  plant — 2  recipes 142 

Greens 137 

Hominy,  large 148 

Lettuce,  wilted 138 

Macaroni — 2  recipes 145 

Macaroni  and  mushrooms  146 

Macaroni — rice 145 

Mushrooms,  4  recipes.  146-147 

Okra 145 

Onions — 2  recipes 144 

Parsnips 143 

Peaches,  Fried 144 

Peas — 3  recipes 141 


Potato  balls 131 

Potato  cakes 133 

Potato  dumplings, German  1 32 

Potato  mangle 132 

Potato  patties 132 

Potato  pudding 130 

Potato  puffs 131 

Potato  rolls 132 

Potatoes  a  la  creme....i3O 
Potatoes,  baked ........  130 

Potatoes,  boiled 131 

Potatoes,  cooked  dry.  . . .  129 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise 131 

Potatoes,  mashed 129 

Potatoes,  Parisian .131 

Potatoes,  quirled 130 

Potatoes,  Saratoga 13^ 

Potatoes,  scalloped 131 

Potatoes,  sweet  —3  recipes  133 

Potato  pumpkin 147 

Rice — 2  recipes 145 

Sauerkraut,  -to  cook 139 

Sauerkraut,   to  make.  ...  138 

Sea  kale 147 

Spinach — 2  recipes 138 

Squash — 3   recipes 143 

Squash  a  la  fried  oysters.  144 

Succotash 136 

Tomatoes — 6  recipes  133-1 34 

Turnips — 2  recipes 142 

Vegetable  oyster 142 

Yams 133 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

The  relation  of  weights  to  measures 


BREAD. 


Substitutions 152 

Yeast 153 


A  cup  of  flour 151 

Baking  powder 152 

Flour,  entire  wheat 150     Bread-making,  easy 154 

Flour,  self-raising 150     Bread-making,  quick. ...  154 

Lime  water  for  bread.  ...  152 
Heat  your  flour 150 


To  test  heat  of  oven 151 


Bread,  brown — 3  recipes.  1 57 

Bread,  corn 157 

Bread,  egg 157 


Bread. 


INDEX. 


Pies. 


BREAD-Continued. 


Bread,  milk  yeast 155 

Bread,  pumpkin 1 56 

Bread,  Graham — 2recipesi56 

Bread,  Indian 156 

Bread,  rye  and  Indian.  .  .156 

Bread,  salt  rising 155 

Bread  omelet — 2  recipes. .  171 
Bread  or  biscuit,  steamed  170 
Bread  or  cake,  to  freshen.  170 
Bread  for  communion. .  .  .  169 
Biscuit — 6  recipes  .  .  .  160-161 

Biscuit,  beaten 162 

Biscuit,  cream 162 

Buns 160 

Cakes,  buckwheat 163 

Cakes,  corn  batter 163 

Cakes,  flannel 164 

Cakes,  griddle 162-163 

Cakes,  hominy 163 

Crackers — 3  recipes.  ....  168 

Crumpets 166 

Gems — 3  recipes 166 


Hoe  cake 158 

Johnny  cake 158-159 

Laplanders 166 

Muffins — 7  recipes.  .  .  164-165 

Pancakes,  bread 162 

Pones — 3  recipes 158 

Puffs 167 

Rice  flour  cake 159 

Rolls,  corn-meal 160 

Rolls — 2  recipes..  .  .  .  159-160 

Rusk 159 

Sally  Lunn 167 

Sandwiches,  4  recipesi7O-i7i 
Short  bread,  Scottish.  .  . .  169 
Toast — 5  recipes.  .  .  .  169-170 
Waffles — 3  recipes.  .  .  167-168 

Cracked  wheat 171 

Hasty  pudding 172 

Hominy,  fine 172 

Mush,  fried 172 

Mush,  Graham 172 

Oatmeal 171 


PIES. 


Pie-crust I/4-I75 

Pie-crust,  Graham 176 

Tart  shells 176 

Amber  pie 185 

Apple  pie — 2  recipes.  ...  183 

Apple-custard  pie 183 

Banana  pie 178 

Buttermilk  pie 183 

Cherry  pie — 2  recipes .  .  .  .  181 
Cocoanut  pie — 2  recipes..  185 

Corn  starch  pie 186 

Cracker  pie 185 

Cranberry  tart  pie 180 

Cream  pie — 3  recipes.  ...  184 

Currant  pie 180 

Custard  pie — 2  recipes.  .  .  183 

Dried  apple  pie 182 

Emancipation  pie 182 

English  currant  pie 181 


Fried  pies 182 

Hickory-nut  pie 185 

Huckleberry  pie 181 

Jelly  pie 186 

Lemon  pie — 2  recipes.  ...  178 

Lemon  pie — 2  crusts 179 

Lemon-molasses  pie 179 

Lemon-potato  pie 179 

Lemon-tapioca  pie 179 

Mince  pies — 2  recipes.  ...  176 

Mince  pies,  summer 177 

One  egg  pie 184 

Orange  pie,  2  recipes  179-1 80 

Peach  pie 181 

Pie  plant  pie 182 

Pine-apple  pie 178 

Pumpkin  pie — 2  recipes. .  177 
Raisin  pie — 2  recipes.  . . . 180 
Rhubarb  pie 182 


488 


Dumplings  and  Shortcakes. 


INDEX. 


Fritters— Pudding- Sauces. 


PIES    Continued. 

Service-berry  pie 180     Transparent  pie. ...      ...  186 

Squash  pie 177     Vinegar  pie 185 

Sweet  potato  pie.  ...  177-178     Wine  plant  and  raisin  piei86 

Tomato  pie 181     Orange  tarts 189 

DUMPLINGS  AND  SHORTCAKES 

Apple  cobbler 187     Plum  duff. 189 

Apple  dumplings,  baked.  188 
Apple  dumplings,  boiled.  188 

Apple  puffs 187 

Apple  pot-pie 187 

Bird's  nest 188 

Brother  Johnathan 188 

Brown  Betty 192 

Dessert  cake,  Chicago.  .  .  190 


Dried  apple  rolls 189 

Peach  pandowdy 189 


Popovers 190 

Roly  poly 189 

Royal  dessert 190 

Sally  Lunn 190 

Shortcake,  cranberry.  ...  191 
Shortcake,  hard  winter ...  191 

Shortcake,  lemon 191 

Shortcake,  orange 191 

Shortcake,  peach 191 

Shortcake,  strawberry.  .  .  191 


FRITTERS. 


The  batter 193 

Apple  fritters 194 

Banana  fritters 194 

Clam  fritters — 2  recipes..  196 

Corn  fritters 195 

Cream  fritters 195 

Cymling  fritters 196 

Grape  fritters 194 


Lemon  fritters 194 

Orange  fritters 193 

Oyster  fritters 196 

Pine-apple  fritters 194 

Plain  fritters 193 

Potato  fritters — 2  recipes.  195 

Rice  fritters 195 

Tomato  fritters 196 


PUDDING-SAUCES. 


Amber  sauce 200 

Beehive  sauce 197 

Butter  sauce 199 

Cider  sauce 201 

Cream  sauce 198 

Cream  and  sugar 198 

Egg  sauce 199 

Golden  sauce 199 

Hard  gold  sauce 198 

Hard  silver  sauce 198 

Jelly  sauce 200 


Lemon  sauce 199 

Maple  sugar  sauce 200 

Milk  sauce 198 

Molasses  sauce 200 

Orange  sauce 199 

Silver  sauce 199 

Sour  cream 198 

Strawberry  sauce 200 

Transparent  sauce 200 

Vanilla  sauce 198 

Vinegar  sauce 201 

PUDDINGS. 


i — 2 — 3 — 4 211     Apple  plum 201 

Almond 213     Apple-sago 202 

Apple  and  baked  Indian. 202     Apple-suet 202 

Apple,  boiled 202     Apple-tapioca 202 


489 


Puddings. 


INDEX. 


Cak« 


PUDDINGS-Continued. 


Baking  day 210 

Baked  Indian — 2  recipes. 21 5 

Batter 211 

Bird's  nest  pudding 203 

Blackberry — 2  recipes.  .  .204 

Blue  grass 209 

Boiled  bread 212 

Boiled  Indian 216 

Bread 212 

Buckeye 210 

Cabinet 210 

Cassava 214 

Chocolate — 2  recipes.212-213 

Citron 205 

Cocoanut — 2  recipes 205 

Corn  starch,  2  recipes.2o6-2O7 

Cottage 211 

Crumb 212 

Electric 209 

French 21 1 

Ginger 205 

Graham 209 


Indian-rice 207 

Jelly 205 

Kiss 207 

L'Elegante 210 

Lemon — 2  recipes.  .  .203-204 

Minute 215 

Napoleon 213 

Old  English  plum 201 

Orange — 2  recipes 202 

Pine-apple 205 

Puft 211 

Queen  of  puddings 212 

Rice 207 

Rolled 210 

Sago 214 

Suet,  baked 213 

Suet,  boiled — 3  recipes.  ..216 

Snow 214 

Tapioca — 5  recipes.  .208-209 
Transparent  puddings.  .  .214 

Wash  day 202 

Whortleberry 204 


LOAF  CAKES. 


Weights  and  measures.  ..151 

Almonds 219 

Butter  and  eggs 217 

Cochineal  coloring 219 

Cooking  in  high  altitudes. 223 
Directions  for  mixing  cake222 

Extracts 222 

Flour  and  sugar 218 

Frosting — 9  recipes.. 223-224 

Heatingthe  oven 220 

Paper  for  cake  pans 219 

Raisins  and  currants. ....  218 

Steaming  fruit  cake 221 

To  prevent  browning.  . .  .221 

I — 2 — 3 — 4  cake 242 

Almond  cake 232 

Angels'  food 236 

Apple  fruit  cake 230 

Birthday  cake 243 


Black  cake 228 

Bride's  cake 225 

Buckeye  cake 234 

Canary  cake 239 

Cake  without  eggs 246 

Chocolate  cake  (3) ..  .239-240 

Clove  cup  cake 233 

Corn  starch  cake, 2  recipes238 

Cream  cake 244 

Dakota  cake 238 

Delicate  cake — 2  recipes .  240 

Empress  fruit  cake 228 

English  fruit  cake 231 

Eugenia  cake 239 

Everyday  cake 238 

Farmer's  fruit  cake 230 

Feather  cake 243 

Fig  loaf  cake 242 

Fruit  cake — 2  recipes.  .  .  .227 


490 


Loaf  Cak«s. 


INDEX. 


Layer  Cakes. 


LOAF  CAKES-Continued. 


Coffee  cake : 232 

Gold  cake 236 

Good  common  fruit  cake. 230 

Graham  cake(2) 245-246 

Groom's  cake 225 

Hollis  cake 241 

Huckleberry  cake 242 

Jenny  Lind  cake 234 

Lady  cake 232 

Lemon  cake 243 

Marble  cake 235 

Old-fashioned  pound  cake233 

One  egg1  cake 245 

Orange  loaf  cake 243 

Plum  cake 226 

Plymouth  cake 236 

Porcupine  cake 244 

Pork  cake 231 

Quaker  pound  cake 229 

Raised  loaf  cake 242 


Raisin  cake 231 

Silver  cake 236 

Sister  Julia's  cup  cake..  .  .245 

Snowball  cake 239 

Soda  pound  cake 234 

Spice  cake 233 

Spice  raisin  cake 232 

Sponge  cake — 3  recipes.  .237 

Surprise  cake 244 

Tea  cake 244 

Village  fruit  cake 228 

Walnut  cake 241 

Watermelon  cake 235 

Wedding  cake 226 

Welcome  fruit  cake 229 

White  cake — 2  recipes.  .  .241 

White  citron  cake 233 

White  fruit  cake, 2  recipes229 

White  pound  cake 234 

White  sponge  cake 237 


LAYER  CAKES. 

To  prepare  cocoanut  meat.246     Cocoanut  cream  cake ....  254 

Almond  filling 247     Confectioner's  cake 25 

Boiled  frosting  for  filling. 247 


Boiled  icing 247 

Chocolate  filling 248 

Cocoanut  filling 248 

Cream  filling 248 

Icing  for  filling 247 

Lemon  filling 248 

Orange  filling 248 

Quick  frosting 247 

Whipped  cream  filling.  .  .247 

Almond  nagout 251 

Apple  jelly  cake 260 

Banana  cake 257 

Belvidere  cream  cake.  .  .  .254 

Blackberry  cake 258 

Caramel  cake 250 

Caramel  layer  cake 258 

Charlotte  polonaise 251 

Chocolate  cake 250 


Cream  layer  cake 249 

Dolly  Varden  cake 260 

Fig  cake — 2  recipes 256 

Gilt-edge  cake 254 

Ice  cream  cake 253 

Irving  Park  cake 250 

Layer  cake 249 

Lemon  jelly  cake 257 

Orange  cake, 2  recipes2$6-257 

Peach  cake 259 

Pine-apple  cake 258 

Prince  of  Wales  cake ....  259 
Ribbon  cake — 2  recipes.  .255 
Rocky  mountain  cake. .  .  .252 

Roll  jelly  cake 248 

Sponge  layer  cake  (2) ....  249 

Variety  cake .261 

White  Lincoln  cake 253 

White  Mountain  cake..  .  .253 


Cookies,  etc. 


INDEX. 


Miscellaneous  Cake*. 


COOKIES,  JUMBLES,  AND  SNAPS. 


Cookies 262 

Cream  cookies 264 

Christmas  cookies 261 

Cocoanut  cookies 263 

Delicate  cookies 265 

Garfield  cookies 262 

German  cookies 262 

Ginger  cookies — 3  recipes266 
Ginger  snaps, 2  recipes266-267 

Graham  cookies 265 

Hermit  cookies 264 


Lemon  cookies.  .  . 263 

Lincoln  cookies .262 

Measure  cookies 264 

Molasses  cookies, 2  recipes265 

Nutmeg  cookies 263 

Oatmeal  cookies .265 

Soft  cream  cookies 264 

Vanilla  cookies 263 

Water  cookies 262 

i — 2 — 3 — -4  jumbles 267 

Jumbles — 2  recipes 267 


DOUGHNUTS,  CRULLERS,  Etc. 


Andover  wonders 270 

Crullers 271 

Doughnuts,  3  recipes .  268-269 
Doughnuts,  amalgamation269 

Doughnuts,  lazy 269 

Doughnuts,  raised 269 

French  puffs 271 


Fried  cakes — 2  recipes .  .  .  270 

Mother's  love-knots 272 

Nun's  sighs 272 

Rissoles : 270 

Spanish  ruffs 270 

Vanities 271 

Varieties 271 


GINGER  CAKES. 


Gingerbread — 3  recipes.. 273 

Gingerbread  gems 276 

Gingerbread,  soft  (2)  273-274 

Gingerbread,  spice 274 

Ginger  cake,  soft 274 


Ginger  cake,  very  cheap . .  275 

Ginger  drops 275 

Ginger  jumbles 276 

Molasses  cake,  soft 275 

Molasses  sponge 275 


MISCELLANEOUS  CAKES. 


Cheese  cakes — 4  recipes .  .284 
Cheese,  buttermilk.  ....  .283 

Cheese,  Dutch 283 

Cheese,  Edinboro' 282 

Cheese,  scalloped 283 

Comfits — 2  recipes 278 

Cream  puffs 280 

Florentines 280 

Florida  syrup  cake 279 

Fondu 282 

German  apple  cake 280 

German  coffee  cake 280 

Hermit  cakes 279 

Lady  fingers 281 

Pyramid  paste 281 


Quajada 283 

Ragamuffins 278 

Sea  foam 282 

Seed  cakes 279 

Spice  cakes .  .  . .' 277 

Sponge  drop  cakes 276 

Sponge  patty-pans 277 

Tea  cakes 277 

Tea  cakes,  warm 277 

Tea  cakes,  molasses  (2) .  .  278 
Thin  bread  and  butter.  .  .282 

Warm  cream  cake 280 

Welsh  rarebit 283 

Widow's  cake 279 

Whistles .281 


492 


Blanc-  Mange. 


INDEX. 


Ices. 


BLANC-MANGE. 

Blanc-mange,  almond 285     Blanc-mange,  in  colors..  .288 

Blanc-mange,  arrow-root. 286     Blanc-mange,  Irish  moss. 287 
Blanc-mange, corn  starch.286     Blanc-mange,  isinglass.  ..287 

Blanc-mange,  farina 286     Blanc-mange,  manioc.  .  .  .287 

Blanc-mange,  fruit 286 

Blanc-mange,  farina-fruit. 286 
Blanc-mange,  gelatine.  .  .287 


Blanc-mange,  quince.  .  . .  287 

Blanc-mange,  sago 288 

Blanc-mange,  tapioca. . . .  288 
CREAMS. 

Cream,  angel 289     Cream,  Oriental 291 

Cream,  apple 289     Cream,  peach 291 

Cream,  Bavarian 289     Cream,  pine-apple 292 

Cream,  chocolate 289     Cream,  Princess 291 

Cream,  coffee 289     Cream,  rice 292 

Cream,  Charlotte 290 

Cream,  Duchess 290 

Cream,  fruit 290 

Cream,  gooseberry 290 

Cream,  Oak  Park 290 


Cream,  orange — 2  recipes29i 


Cream,  Spanish 292 

Cream,  strawberry  (2) ...  292 

Cream,  tapioca 293 

Cream,  vanilla 293 

Cream,  velvet . '. 293 

Whipped  cream 293 


CUSTARDS,  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE,  Etc. 


Custard,  baked 294 

Custard,  boiled 294 

Custard,  chocolate 294 

Custard,  lemon 295 

Custard,  snow 295 

Custard,  sweet  potato.  .  . .  295 
Almond  snow  balls...  .  .  .  .298 


Honey,  French 298 

Honey,  lemon .........  .298 

Lemon  butter 298 

Meringue,  apple 296 

Meringue,  corn  starch.  .  .296 

Rice  balls 297 

Rice  Handy- Andy 297 


Apple  island 296  Snow  balls 297 

Charlotte  Russe 295  Souffle  vanilla 288 

"  "    Mississippi. 296  Syllabub --293 

Hen's  nest 296  Thickened  rice 297 

Honey,  artificial 298  Trifle 297 

ICE  CREAMS,  SHERBETS,  WATER  ICES. 

Ice  cream,  chocolate. 300-301  Sherbet,  pine-apple 302 

Ice  cream,  cocoanut 301 

Ice  cream,  coffee 301 

Ice  cream,  fruit 301 

Ice  cream,  lemon, 2  recipes3OO 


Ice  cream,  tea 301 

Icecream,vanilla,2  recipes3OO 

Delmonico 302 

Sherbet,  lemon 302 


Sherbet,  strawberry 302 

Ice,  currant 303 

Ice,  lemon — 2  recipes.  .  .  .  303 
Ice,  orange — 2  recipes3O3~3O4 

Ice,  pine-apple 304 

Ice,  raspberry ..304 

Ice.  strawberry.  ....  .  .  .  .304 

Ice,  watermelon,.  .....  .  .304 


493 


Drinks. 


INDEX. 


Fruit. 


TABLE 

Care  of  coffee-pot 306 

Chocolate 309 

Chocolate,  egg ' 309 

Cocoa,  breakfast .309 

Cocoa  shells 309 

Coffee-browning 305 

Coffee,  "  to  boil  or  not " .  .  306 
Coffee,  with  boiling  water.3o6 
Coffee,  with  egg 306 


DRINKS. 

Coffee,  dripped 307 

Coffee,  steamed 307 

Coffee  for  festivals 307 

Coffee,  Vienna 308 

Coffee,  rye 308 

Mixing  coffee 305 

Substitute  for  cream 308 

Tea 308 

Tea,  iced 309 


SUMMER  DRINKS. 


A  freezing  mixture 309 

Bottled  soda  water 309 

Cider,  mulled. 312 

Cider,  to  keep 313 

Cream  nectar 310 

Cream  soda 310 

Ginger  nectar --3IO 

Ginger  pop 310 

Grape  cordial 311 

Harvest  drink 311 

Hydromel.  . . 311 

Imperial 311 

Lemonade 311 

Lemonade,  powdered  ....312 


Lemonade,  portable.  .  .'.  .312 

Lemon  soda 312 

Lemon  syrup 312 

Mead 312 

Mixed  syrups .312 

Orgeat 313 

Orange  syrup 313 

Pine-apple  syrup 313 

Refreshing  drink 314 

Raspberry  nectar 313 

Strawberry  syrup 314 

Sugar  nectar 313 

Syrup  of  vinegar 314 

Unfermented  wine  (2). .  .314 


FRESH  FRUIT. 


Almonds 318 

Ambrosia 316 

Apples ..316 

Bananas .  3 1 5 

Blackberries 315 

Cocoanut 316 

Frosted  fruits 317 

Grapes 316 

Grapes,  to  keep  fresh.  .  .  .317 


Iced  currants 317 

La  Composite 316 

Melons .  .317 

Nutmeg  melons -.  .318 

Oranges 316 

Peaches 316 

Pears , 316 

Raisins 317 

Watermelons : 317 


CANNED   FRUIT. 


General  directions 318 

Apples 321 

Elderberries 320 

Pears 320 

Peaches .320 

Pie-plant. ,. ....... .  .320 


Pine-apple 321 

Pumpkin 321 

Raspberries 320 

Strawberries -319 

Tomatoes 321 

Tomatoes,  whole 321 


494 


Fruit  S.auoe. 


INDEX. 


Jelly,  Preserve*,  eta. 


FRUIT  SAUCE. 

Apples,  baked — 2  recipes  .323     Apples  jellied 324 

Apples,  boiled 322     Apples,  stewed — 2  recipes324 

Apples,  boiled,  spiced 323 

Apples,  compote  of. . .  .    .323 

Apple  sauce,  cider 324 

Apple  croutes 322 

Apple,  dewdrop 323 


Apple  sauce,  dried 324 

Apples,  fried 324 

Apples  in  jelly 322 


Berries,  stewed 325 

Cranberries — 3  recipes.  .  .325 
Currants  and  pie-plant..  .325 

Peaches,  stewed 326 

Plums,  stewed 326 

Prunes,  stewed 326 

Quinces,  baked. 325 

Raisins,  stewed 326 


JELLY. 


To  test  jelly 327 

To  turn  jelly  out 327 

To  weigh  fruit  juice 329 

Apple  jelly 327 

Blackberry  jelly 327 

Calf  's-foot  jelly 331 

Cherry  jelly 328 

Crab-apple  jelly 328 

Currant  jelly  (2) 328-329 


Dried  apple  jelly,2  recipes328 
Grape  jelly,  3  recipes .  329-330 

Jelly  of  two  colors 332 

Lemon  jelly 330 

Peach  jelly 330 

Quince  jelly 331 

Raspberry  jelly 331 

Tapioca  jelly 331 

Wild  plum  jelly 331 


PRESERVES,  JAMS,   MARMALADES,  Eto. 

To  clarify  sugar 333     Peach  rolls 338 

Apple  butter — 3  recipes.  .341 


Apple  marmalade .339 

Apple  preserves T.  334 

Blackberry  jam 338 

Cherry  marmalade 340 

Cherry  preserves 334 

Cherries,  to  dry 342 

Citron  preserves 334 

Crab-apple  preserves. 334-335 

Cranberry  preserves 335 

Currant  jam 338 

Currants,  to  dry 342 

Damson  plum  preserves.  .335 

Gooseberries,  to  dry 342 

Grape  preserves 335 

Orange  jam 339 

Orange  marmalade 340 

Peach  marmalade 339 

Peach  paper 338 

Peach  preserves •  •  335 


Peaches,  to  dry 342 

Pear  preserves 336 

Persimmons,  to  keep 342 

Plum  butter 341 

Plum-tomato  preserves..  .336 
Preserved  orange  peel.  .  .338 

Pumpkin  preserves 336 

Quince  marmalade 340 

Quince  preserves 337 

Raspberry  jam 339 

Strawberry  jam 339 

Strawberry  preserves.  . .  .336 

Tomato  butter 342 

Tomato  figs 338 

Tomato  jam 339 

Tomato  preserves 336 

Watermelon  rinds 337 

White  currant  jam 339 

Wild  plum  marmaUde. .  .340 
Wild  plum  preserves. . .  .337 


495' 


FiO.te« — Vinegar. 


INDEX. 


Pienics,  etc. 


SOUR  PICKLES. 


Artichokes 344 

Cabbage 345 

Cabbage,  red .  .  ,  ,  : 346 

Cauliflower 346 

Cherries,  2  recipes 346 

Chow-chow 346 

Cucumbers,  to  keep  firm. 343 

Cucumbers 344 

Cucumber  pickles,  fi^sh.  .345 

Cucumber  mangoes 345 

French  pickles 347 

Higby 349 

Jackson  pickles 349 


Lemons 351 

Mangoes 347 

Mixed  pickles 350 

Mushrooms 348 

Nasturtions 347 

Onions,  silver  skinned..  .  .348 

Onions,  spiced 348 

Piccalilli 350 

Peppers,  stuffed 348 

Plum-tomatoes 348 

String  beans 350 

Tomatoes — 2  recipes ....  349 
Walnuts 351 


SWEET   PICKLES. 


Apples,  sweet 351 

Beets 355 

Blackberries 355 

Cantaloupe 352 

Citron 352 

Crab-apples 351 

Cucumbers,  ripe  (2) 353 

Grapes 353 

Huckleberries . • • 355 

Peaches --354 


Pears — 2  recipes 353 

Pine-apples 353 

Plums 354 

Plum-tomatoes 354 

Quinces 354 

Raisins 355 

Rhubarb,  spiced 355 

Strawberries 355 

Tomatoes,  green 353 

Watermelon  rinds 352 


VINEUAR. 

Apple  vinegar 356     Lemor*  vinegar 357 

Beet  vinegar 356     Potato  vinegar 357 

Cayenne  vinegar 356 

Celery  vinegar 356 

Clover  bloom  vinegar.  .  .  .356 

Corn  vinegar 356 

Currant  vinegar 357 

Honey  vinegar 357 

Horse-radish  vinegar 357 


Raspberry  vinegar 357 

Rhubarb  vinegar 357 

Spearmint  vinegar 358 

Spiced  vinegar 358 

Sugar  vinegar 358 

Tarragon  vinegar 358 

Tomato  vinegar 358 

PICNICS,  LUNCHES,  ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Suggested  dishes 359     Potential  energy  of  food.  367 

Five  food  principles  ....  368 
Uses  of  food  in  body.  .  .  .  369 
Evidences  of  good  health369 


Quantities  required 360 

School  lunches 361 

Lunches  for  traveling  ...  361 

Luncheons 362-363 

Holiday  menus 364-366 


Chafing  dish  cookery  .  .  .  370 
French  translations.  37 1-37 5 


496 


To  a  Young  Wife. 


INDEX. 


Carving, 


USEFUL  HOUSEHOLD  HINTS, 


TO  A  YOUNG  WIFE. 

An  old  citizen's  letter, 377 

COLORED  PLATES. 

Description  of 381 

DINNER  ETIQUET. 

Whom  to  invite 384     The  table 386 

Form  of  invitation 385     Serving  the  dinner 386 

"  Dinner  is  ready  " 385     Hints  to  the  invited 387 

BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Dishes  suggested 389 

CHILDREN'S  PARTY. 

Suggestions  for 392 

CANDY-MAKING. 

Almond  taffy 396     Fruit  candy 397 

Anabel's  candy .397 

Butter  scotch 396 

Chocolatecaramels(2)394-395 
Chocolate  candy,2  recipes395 
Chocolate  cream  drops. .  395 


Christmas  candy 394 

Cocoanut  cream  candy..  .395 

Cocoanut  macaroons 397 

Cocoanut  taffy 396 

Cream  taffy. .  . .  ^ 395 

Excelsior  cream  candy.  -.393 


Hickory-nut  macaroons .  .  397 

Horehound  candy 397 

Lemon  macaroons 397 

Lemon  taffy 396 

Maple  caramels 394 

Molasses  candy—  2recipes394 

Peanut  candy 396 

Popcorn  balls 398 

Snow  candy 396 

Sugar  kisses 397 

Vinegar  Candy 396 


CARVING. 

With   illustrations 398-400 

INVALID  COOKERY. 

A  word  to  the  wise 401     Cream  soup 406 


Apple  drink — 2  recipes.  .402 

Baked  milk 403 

Beaten  egg 403 

Beef  extract,  Mrs.  G.'s.  .  .405 

Beef,  raw 405 

Beeftea 405 

Broiled  chicken 404 

Broth — 2  recipes .405 

Broth,  mutton -4°6 

Corn  for  weak  stomachs.  .406 

Cracker  relish 406 

Cracker  and  egg 406 


Crust  coffee 402 

Dried  flour 407 

Egg  and  sponge  cake.  .  .  .406 

Egg  lemonade 403 

Flaxseed  lemonade 403 

Gruel,  boiled  flour 405 

Gruel,  Indian  meal 404 

Hop  tea 402 

Jelly — 5  recipes 404 

Lime  water  and  milk.  .  .  .403 

Milk  porridge  (2) 405 

Milk  punch 402 


497 


Invalid  Cookery. 


INDEX. 


Remedies. 


INVALID  COOKERY-Continued. 


Mulled  buttermilk 402 

Panada 406 

Panada,  cider 406 

Refreshing  drink 402 

Roasted  potatoes 404 

Tamarind   water 402 


Toast  water 402 

Tomato  custard 407 

Whey,  alum 403 

Whey,  buttermilk 403 

Whey,  rennet 403 

Whey,  wine 403 


THE  NURSERY. 

Bathing  infants 407     Nursing  bottles,  to  cleanse4o8 

Biting  finger  nails,  to  cure.4i  I     Rocking  the  baby 408 

Croup,  simple  treatment.. 410 

Earache 410 

Ear,  care  of  the 410 

Milk  for  the  baby 407 

Nose  bleed 410 


Save  yourself 409 

Substances  in  the  nose.  .  .410 

To  mothers 408 

Turn  the  baby  over.  ...     408 

Vermin  in  heads 411 

Whooping  cough  cures.. 411 


Nursing  bottles 407 

REMEDIES. 

Aqua  ammonia  for  nausea4i2     Hot  drops  for  cholera.  .  .  .414 

Hydrophobia  (2). 


Baldness,  to  cure 417 

Bearing  down 419 

Blackberry  cordial 414 

Burns,  to  cure.      . .  , 418 

Bunions 415 

Chapped  hands,  to  cure.  .413 

Chilblains 415 

Citric  acid 418 

Cold,  excellent  remedy. .  .413 

Constipation 418 

Corns 415 

Cough,  dry  irritating.  .  .  .414 
Cough,  home  remedy  for. 41 3 

Cough  syrup.  ...    414 

Cut  or  bruise,  best  remedy4!2 

Diphtheria 414 

Discoloration  of  the  skin. 41 2 
Disinfectants — 3  recipes.  .412 

Eyes,  weak 413 

Eye  water  for  weak  eyes. 41 3 
Eye  water,  very  superior. 41 3 

Felon,  to  cure 416 

Frozen  feet 415 

Herbs,  to  steep 412 

Hops,  to  heat 418 


. . .419-420 
Inflammatory  rheumatisirmp 

Liver  bitters 415 

Lockjaw 419 

Linseed  poultice 417 

Mustard  poultice 416 

Moles,  to  remove 416 

Neuralgia  cure.  .  , 418 

Neuralgia,  lemons  for.  .  .  .418 

Night-sweats 419 

Ointment  for  bruises,  etc. 41 3 

Piles 419 

Piles,  dieting  for 419 

Poisons 416 

Poison  ivy  or  bee  sting..  .416 

Refreshing  wash 411 

Ringworm 420 

Sleeplessness 417 

Smallpox  and  scarlet  fever42O 
Sore  throat,  inveterate .  .  .414 

Sprain,  best  cure 412 

Stimulating  sponge  bath. 412 

Tooth-ache 418 

WTarts,  to  cure 416 

Warts,  to  remove 416 


498 


Beds— Lamps. 


INDEX. 


Laundry — Dye^. 


CARE  OF  BEDS. 

Beds  and  bedding 420-426 

CARE  OF  LAMPS. 

Suggestions  for 426 

THE  LAUNDRY. 

Blankets,  to  wash 432      Lace,  white  Spanish 435 

Blue,  a  fast  color 432 

British  enamel 429 

Calico  liable  to  fade 432 

Chamois  skin, 433 

Cleaning  clothes  wringers43i 

Cleaning  white  fur 435 

Clothes  lines,  pliable.  .  .  .432 
Eureka  cleansing  fluid. .  .438 

Flannels 432 

Folding  a  shirt 431 

Holders 431 


Linen  suits 433 

Magic  washing  soap 428 

Red  table  linen 433 

Removing  fruit  stains.  . .  .434 
Removing  grease  spots.  .434 

Removing  mildew 434 

Removing  tar 434 

Rene  wing  black  woolens.  43 1> 
Renovating  black  silk.  .  .435 

Renovating  carpets 438 

Smoothing  irons,  to  clean43:? 


Hose 433  'Soap— 12  recipes436,  437,438 

Imperial  star  blueing.  .  .  .429     Starch,  4recipes..430, 432,  433 


Ink  stains 435 

Ironing  a  shirt 430 

Iron  rust 434 

Javelle  water 434 

Lace,  black 435 

•435 
•435 


Lace  collars,  doing  up. 
Lace  mitts,  to  color.  . 
Laces 435 


Starching  shirts 430 

Stiffening  black  goods.  .  .433 
Towels,  colored  borders.. 432 

Washday 427 

Washing  fluid 428 

Wash-tubs — to  save 43  ( 

White  clothes — put  away43.'; 
Woolen  pants 433 


DYES. 


Annato   439 

Black — 2  recipes. 439 

Blue 440 

Blue,  navy 440 

Brown 440 

Brown,  seal 440 

Canary,  for  cotton 440 

Composition 440 


Green — 2  recipes 441 

Orange — 2  recipes 441 

Purple 441 

Red — 2  recipes 441 

Red,  madder 442, 

Red,  Turkey 442 

Wine 442 

Yellow  for  cotton 442 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


Bad  breath 

Bed  bug  poison 457 

Bloom  of  youth 443 

Burning  chimney .458 

Camphor  ice 443 

Carpet  cleaner 456 


Cement,  crockery 457 

Cleaning  brass  or  copper. 450 

Cleaning  house 451-454 

Cleaning  silver 450 

Charcoal   preservative.  .  .445 
Cologne  water 


499 


Farmers'  Department. 


INDEX. 


Cutting  Up  Meats. 


MISCELLANEOUS    Continued. 


Court  plaster,  to  make. .  .  445 
Digestion  of  food.  .  .446-447 

Dry  Shampoo /\/\<\ 

Fire  Kindlers 458 

Freckles,  to  remove 443 

Foods  in  season 448 

Furniture  polish .  .450  and  457 

Grates — to  blacken 456 

Grease  spots 456 

Hair  brushes 445 

Hair  crimping 444 

Hair  wash — 2  recipes. . .  .444 

Home-made  carpet 455 

Honey,  candied 445 

Indigestible  foods 447 

Ink,  indelible 458 

Ink,  marking 458 

Ink  stains 456 

Kalsomine 455 


Liquid  glue 457 

Moths — to  destrop 457 

Oil-cloths — to  clean 457 

Oriental  cold  cream 443 

Paint  for  floors 450 

Paste  that  will  keep 457 

Patching  carpets 456 

Roaches — to  destroy.  . .  .457 

Scent  powder ^/\/[ 

Shellac  for  floors 450 

Stain  for  floors 450 

Stair  carpets — to  save  .(2)455 

Softening  of  hands 443 

Sweeping  carpets 45 G 

Tinware — to  mend 458 

Tooth  paste 444 

To  beautify  teeth 444. 

Wax  from  comb 47$ 

Whitewash 454 

See  also  page  300. 


FARMERS'  DEPARTMENT. 

•HK  *** 

CUTTING  UP  MEATS. 

Beef 459     Rennet — to  prepare 460 

Lamb 461     Sausage  cases— to  clean  .462 

Mutton 461     Tripe — to  clean 460 

Pork 461     Veal 460 

THE   HORSE. 

Big  head 463     Liniment 466 

Lung  fever 465 


Blistering  ointment 466 

Bots 463 

Colic 463 

Curb 464 

Diarrhea 464 

Distemper  or  influenza.  .464 

Eye  lotion 464 

Farcy,  or  glanders 464 

Fistula,  or  poll  evil 464 

Founder 464 

Heaves 465 

Hoof  ointment 466 

Lampas 465 


Mange 465 

Merchant's  gargling  oil.  .466 

Mustang  liniment 467 

Physic. 467 

Ringbone 465 

Scratches 465 

Skinfast 467 

Spavin  and  Splint 465 

Staggers 465 

Stringhaltor  springhalt.  .466 

Thick  wind 466 

Windgalls 466 


5oo 

Diseases  of  Animals.  iNDEX.  Road-Making. 

CATTLE. 

Choking 467     Lice  on  cattle .468 

Distemper 468     Physic  for  cattle.  ...... .468 

Dry  murrain 467     Red-water 468 

Fardel-bound 467     Ringworm. 468 

Garget,  or  caked  udder.  .468     Scouring .468 

Hide-bound 468     Sore  teats 469 

Hoven,  or  blown .  .468     Tar-water  for  cattle 469 

SHEEP. 

Bloating 469     Physic 469 

Diarrhea .469     Sore-mouth 469 

Foot-rot 469     Scabs  and  ticks 469 

Foul  noses 469     Scours 469 

SWINE. 

Cholera 470     Sniffle  disease 470 

Coughs  and  colds 470     Sore  throat .470 

Diarrhea 470     Sows  eating  their  pigs.  .  ..470 

Kidney  worm  and  lice.  .  .470     Worms .470 

ROAD-MAKING. 
Suggestions  for,  with  illustration .  .  .471-474 

MISCELLANEOUS.          See  also  pag*  499. 

Ant-colony — to  destroy.  .475  Keeping  up  windows.  .  .  .475 

Black  or  red  ants 475  Leggings,  improvised.  .  .476 

Cabbage  worm,  to  destroy475  Mustard — to  cultivate.  .  .475 

Cement,  rubber.  .  .  , 476     To  preserve  soles 476 

Foot-warmers    476  Water  casks — to  clean .  .  .489 

Frothing  of  cream 475  Waterproof  blacking.  .  .  .476 


AGENTS  WANTED 

In  Every  City  and  Town  to  Introduce 
THE  LONE  STAR  COOK  BOOK, 

Sold  by  Subscription  Only. 

IT  IS  UNIVERSALLY  POPULAR  AND  SELLS  READILY. 


Terras  and  full  information  will  be  cheerfully  furnished  those  who  desire 
to  engage  in  the  business  on  application  to 

HALLETT  PUBLISHING  COMPANY, 

6243  KIMBARK  AVENUR,  CHICAGO,   ILLS. 




RETURN        MARIAN  KOSHLAND  BIOSCIENCE  AND 
TO  — >  NATURAL  RESOURCE  LIBRARY 

2101  Valley  Life  Sciences  Bldg.    642-2531 


LO 


ERIOD 


ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS. 


DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW. 

RPr:'D  PJOS 
EP  2  7  2006  -3  ®{ 

.II 

\'\\  |d 

JAN  0  Q  7007 

- 

FORM  NO.  DD  8                        UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY 
24M    4-00                                                   Berkeley,  California  94720-6500 

U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 

C0575M75I4 


\ 


