/nr^T  ;  T  T~~^ 

I  .  ,1    JL-a 

& 


!      I 


From  the  collection  of  the 


d 


o  Prelinger 
u  v    JJibrary 
t        p 


San  Francisco,  California 
2007 


THE  MUSHROOM  BOOK 


Amanitopsis  parcivolvata,  Pk. 
See  page  55. 


THE    MUSHROOM 

BOOK.  A  POPULAR  GUIDE  TO 
THE  IDENTIFICATION  AND  STUDY 
OF  OUR  COMMONER  FUNGI,  WITH 
SPECIAL  EMPHASIS  ON  THE  EDIBLE 
VARIETIES 

BY 

NINA  L.  MARSHALL 


WITH  MANY  ILLUSTRATIONS  IN  COLOR 
AND  BLACK  AND  WHITE  PHOTOGRAPHED 
FROM  NATURE  BY  J.  A.  &  H.  C.  ANDERSON 


GARDEN  CITY        NEW  YORK 

DOUBLEDAY,  PAGE  &  COMPANY 

1923 


COPYRIGHT,  1901,  1904,  1922,  BY 
DOUBLEDAY,  PAGE   &   COMPANY 

ALL   RIGHTS   RESERVED,    INCLUDING   THAT   OF   TRANSLATION 
INTO   FOREIGN    LANGUAGES,    INCLUDING   THE  SCANDINAVIAN 


PRINTED   IN  THE  UNITED   STATES 

AT 
THE  COUNTRY  LIFE   PRESS,   GARDEN   CITY,   N.   Y. 


THE 
ROOM 


MUSH- 
BOOK 


COHRINUS  COMATUS 

Courtesy  of  Agricultural  Experiment  Station,  Corne>» 
See  page  90 


PREFACE 


THE  author  of  this  book 
makes  no  claim  to  the  discovery 
of  the  facts  presented.  The  ma- 
terial has  all  been  drawn  from 
monographs  written  by  men 
who  have  made  specialties  of 
the  different  divisions  of  fungi. 
A  list  of  works  consulted  is 
given  at  the  close  of  this  book. 
The  plates  are  reproductions  of 
photographs  made  by  Mr.  J.  A. 
Anderson,  and  coloured  by  Miss 
H.  C.  Anderson.  They  are  as 
true  to  nature  as  it  is  possible  to 
make  them  with  the  best  meth- 
ods of  reproduction  now  known, 
and  by  them  alone  an  acquaint- 
ance with  many  species  may  be 
acquired. 

Many  of  the  cuts  have  been 
redrawn  by  the  author  from  vari- 
ous reliable  sources,  and  many 
have  been  drawn  directly  from 
nature.  With  a  few  exceptions, 
the  line  drawings  of  sections 
were  made  from  the  specimens 
photographed.  It  has  been  the 
aim  of  the  author  to  write  a  book 
simple  enough  to  serve  as  a 
source  of  knowledge  for  the 
many  who,  though  busy  with 
other  pursuits,  yet  take  an  in- 
terest in  science  and  wish  to 
obtain  information  about  the 
fungi,  either  for  the  sake  of 
using  them  as  food,  or  for  the 

vii 


Coprinus  comatus 


Courtesy  of  Agricultural  Experiment  Station, 
University. 

See  page  90 


Preface 

pleasure  which  an  acquaintance  with  their  habits  and  home  life 
may  give.  A  great  effort  has  been  made  not  to  sacrifice  accuracy 
in  this  attempt. 

The  number  of  species  of  the  fungi  is  so  great  that  to  de- 
scribe them  all  would  necessitate  a  book  of  huge  dimensions,  so 
that  it  has  seemed  best  simply  to  give  a  general  idea  of  the 
characteristics  upon  which  the  larger  groups,  the  classes,  orders, 
and  genera,  are  based,  by  describing  some  of  the  species  in  each. 
Seven  genera  of  the  Spore-sac  Fungi  are  illustrated  with  ten 
species,  and  thirty-five  genera  of  the  Basidiomycetes  with 
seventy-three  species,  making  a  total  of  eighty-three  species 
represented  by  photographs  in  colour  and  half-tone. 

In  addition  a  number  of  species  are  given  in  rough  pen 
drawings,  with  sufficient  accuracy  for  identification,  and  many 
species  have  been  described  without  illustration. 

An  effort  has  been  made  to  describe  the  species  in  terms 
intelligible  to  the  average  reader  without  constant  reference  to 
an  unabridged  dictionary,  and,  whenever  possible,  the  terms  have 
been  illustrated  by  line  cuts. 

Although  the  technical  names  necessarily  used  are  a  serious 
hindrance  to  the  popularization  of  the  study  of  fungi,  it  has 
seemed  best,  in  most  cases,  to  give  only  the  Latin  form  of  the 
names  of  species,  since,  by  so  doing,  there  will  be  less  danger 
of  confusing  harmless  species  with  those  which  are  harmful ;  and, 
also,  if  their  Latin  names  are  adhered  to,  one  will  find  it  much 
simpler  to  consult  the  scattered  literature  on  this  subject,  as  this 
nomenclature  is  used  by  all  naturalists  of  whatever  nationality. 

That  the  pronunciation  of  names  may  be  rendered  as  simple 
as  possible,  each  vowel  has  been  marked  long  or  short.  These 
vowel-marks  are  not  necessarily  indicative  of  the  true  syllabic 
quantity,  but  are  rather  diacritical  points  denoting  the  popular 
pronunciation  by  the  English  system.  Each  word  has  been 
divided  into  syllables  according  to  the  accepted  rules,  and  an 
accent  has  been  placed  on  the  syllables  to  be  accented. 

The  author  is  under  deep  obligations  to  Professor  Lucien  M, 
Underwood,  of  Columbia  University,  for  aid  and  encouragement 
in  the  work  of  this  book,  and  for  his  cheerful  willingness  at  all 
times  to  assist  in  the  search  for  material  and  in  the  work  of 
revising  proof. 


Preface 

Thanks  are  also  due  to  Professor  Charles  H.  Peck,  the  New 
York  State  Botanist,  for  his  kind  assistance  in  identifying  many 
of  the  specimens  illustrated. 

A  list  of  books  consulted  has  been  placed  at  the  end  of  the 
book,  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  may  wish  to  pursue  the  study 
further. 


Coprinus  comatus. 

Courtesy  of  Agricultural  Experiment  Station.  Cornell  University' 
Sae  pape  90 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

CHAPTER  I  :  THE  HOMES  AND  HABITS  OF  FUNGI  .  .  i 
CHAPTER  II  :  THE  RELATION  OF  FUNGI  TO  OTHER  PLANTS  5 
CHAPTER  III  :  FROM  SPORE  TO  MUSHROOM  .  .  .11 

CHAPTER   IV:  THE  KEY 15 

What  a  key  is,  and  why  a  name  is  desirable          .  15 
How  a  key  for  fungi   is   made,    and    why    it   is 

desirable i^ 

The  Key       .         .        .        .        .         .        .  17 

CHAPTER   V  :  FUNGI  WITH  GILLS 46 

I.    WHITE-SPORED   SERIES 

Genus  Amanita .46 

Death  Cup;  Poison  Amanita.  „  .'  .  48 

Fly  Amanita 49 

Orange  Amanita 50 

Comparison  of  Three  Yellow  Amanitas  .  .  52 

Genus  Cantharellus 53 

Cantharellus  floccosus 53 

Genus  Amanitopsis 53 

The  Sheathed  Amanitopsis  ....  54 
Amanitopsis  parcivolvata  .  .  .  -55 

Genus  Mycena 55 

Mycena  haematopoda 55 

Genus  Lentinus 56 

Scaly  Lentinus .56 

Genus  Pleurotus .57 

Oyster  Mushroom °  57 

Pleurotus  sapidus  .  .  .  .  .  ^8 

Elm  Pleurotus  ......  58 

Jenus  Hygrophorus 59 

Chanterelle  Hygrophorus  ....  59 


Contents 


Vermilion  Hygrophorus          .         .  60 

Ivory  Hygrophorus         .         .        ..         .         .61 

Genus  A  r  mil  I  aria        .        .        .        .        .        .61 

Honey-coloured  Armillaria     .         .         .         .61 

Genus  Lepiota       .......      63 

Parasol  Mushroom;  Tall  Lepiota    ...       63 
Smooth  Lepiota      ......       64 

Lepiota  Friesii 6s 

Genus  Marasmius        ......      6s 

Fairy-ring  Mushroom     .....       66 

Genus  Collybia 66 

Collybia  familia      .         .         .         .         .         -67 

Genus  Panus       . 67 

Genus  Trogia       .  ....       67 

Genus  Schi^ophylluin  .         .         .         .         .         .       67 

Genus  Omphalia  .......       68 

Genus  Russula 68 

Emetic  Russula      ....  .68 

Green  Russula;  Verdette        ....       69 
Variable  Russula    .         .         .         .         .         -70 

Genus  Clitocybe 70 

Clitocybe  laccata    .         .         .         .         .         .       70 

Clitocybe  virens     .         .         .         .         .         •       7' 

Genus  Tricholoma        ......       72 

Masked  Tricholoma        .....       72 

Craterellus  cantharellus  .         .         .         .         -73 

2.    BROWN-SPORED    SERIES 

Genus  Agaricus 

Comparison  of  Eight  Agarici  .... 

Common  Mushroom 

Rodman's  Mushroom 

Agaricus  abruptus 

Genus  Hypholoma  ..... 

Perplexing  Hypholoma  ..... 

Comparison  of  Six  Hypholomas     . 

Uncertain  Hypholoma    .... 

Hypholoma  sublateritium  .... 
Genus  Stropharia  ...  0 

xii 


Contents 

PACK 

Genus  Psathyra    ...••••  82 

Genus  Psilocybe 82 

Genus  Pilosace 82 

Genus  Deconica 82 

Genus  Chitonia 83 

).    RUSTY-SPORED  SERIES 

Genus  Pholiola 83 

Fat  Pholiota 83 

Early  Pholiota 84 

Pholiota  aggericola 84 

Genus  Cortinarius 85 

Cortinarius  alboviolaceus  ....  86 

4.    PINK-SPORED  SERIES 

Genus  Pluteus 87 

Fawn-coloured  Pluteus 87 

Genus  Entoloma 

Genus  Eccilia 88 

Genus  Volvaria 88 

Genus  Clitopilus 88 

5.    BLACK-SPORED  SERIES 

Genus  Coprinus 89 

Ink  Caps        .                        ....  89 

Shaggy-mane;  Horsetail;  Maned  Agaric       .  90 

Inky  Coprinus 91 

Glistening  Coprinus 91 

Genus  Gomphidius 92 

Genus  Psathyrella 92 

Genus  Pan&olus 9a 

6.    FUNGI  WITH  MILKY  JUICE 

Genus  Lactarius 92 

Peppery  Lactarius 92 

Lactarius  ligniotus 93 

CHAPTER  VI :  FUNGI  WITH  TEETH— HYDNACE^       .        .  94 

Genus  Hydnum 95 

Spreading  Hydnum 95 

White  Hydnum 95 

xiii 


Content* 

PAC 

Hydnum  imbricatum 9 

Bear's-head  Hydnum 9 

Medusa's  Head 9 

Hedgehog  Hydnum       .....  9 

Coral  Hydnum 9 

CHAPTER  VII  :    FAIRY  CLUBS   AND   CORAL  FUNGI — CLA- 

VARIACE>€ 9 

Genus  Physalacria 9 

Genus  Pistillaria 9 

Genus  Typhula 9 

Genus  Sparassis 9 

Genus  Pterula 9 

Genus  Lachnocladium 9 

Genus  Clavaria 9 

Pale  Yellow  Clavaria 9 

Golden  Clavaria 10 

Red-tipped  Clavaria 10 

Crested  Clavaria 10 

Pistil  Clavaria  ;  Large  Club    .        .        .        .  101 

Clavaria  fellea        .        .        „        .        .        .  101 

Clavaria  formosa 101 

CHAPTER  VIII :  FUNGI  WITH  PORES— BOLETACE/E  ;  POLY- 

PORACE/€      .  .  .  .  .  .IO2 

Boletacece 102 

Genus  Fistulina 102 

Genus  Boletinus 105 

Painted  Boletinus 103 

Genus  Boletus 104 

Boletus  glabellus 104 

Boletus  bicolor 105 

Boletus  cyanescens 105 

Boletus  pallidus 105 

Boletus  mutabilis 105 

Boletus  speciosus 105 

Golden-flesh  Boletus 106 

Boletus  radicans 106 

Boletus  Peckii 106 

Boletus  calopus 106 

xiv 


Contents 

PACK 

Purple  Boletus 107 

Boletus  Satanus 107 

Bitter  Boletus 107 

Boletus  scaber        .        .        .        .        .        .108 

Orange-cap  Boletus 108 

Chestnut  Boletus 108 

Boletus  eximius 108 

Edible  Boletus 109 

Boletus  subtomentosus 109 

Boletus  Americanus 109 

Polyporacece 109 

Genus  Merulius no 

Genus  Polyporus no 

Polyporus  applanatus     .        .        .        ,        ,  1 10 

Polyporus  fomentarius 1 10 

Polyporus  conchatus     .        .        .        .        .in 

Polyporus  velutinus in 

Polyporus  pergamenus 1 1 1 

Polyporus  perennis        .        .        .        .        .ill 

Polyporus  sulphureus    .        .        .        .        .  in 

Polyporus  squamosus 112 

Polyporus  lucidus 112 

Polyporus  arcularius 112 

Polyporus  versicolor 112 

Polyporus  circinatus 113 

Genus  Trametes 113 

Genus  Lenities 113 

Lenzites  betulina 113 

Lenzites  separia 114 

Genus  Dcedalea 114 

Daedalea  unicolor  .        .        .        .  .114 

Daedalea  confragosa 114 

Daedalea  quercina 114 

Genus  Favolus      .        .        .        .        ,        .        .115 

CHAPTER  IX:   GELATINOUS  AND  OTHER  PUNCH       .       .116 

Jew's  Ear,  or  Judas's  Ear 116 

Tremellodon 116 

Guepina       .        . 116 

xv 


Contents 

PACK 

CHAPTER  X:  OFFENSIVE  FUNGI— ORDER  PHALLALES  .        .  117 

Genus  Phallus 117 

Stinkhorns 117 

Phallus  impudicus 1 19 

Genus  Dictyophora 120 

Dictyophora  Ravenelii 120 

Dictyophora  duplicata 120 

Mutinus  caninus 120 

Family  Clathracece 121 

Latticed  Clathrus 121 

Clathrus  columnatus 121 

Anthurus  borealis 121 

Simblum  rubescens 122 

CHAPTER  XI :  PUFFBALLS 123 

Order  Ly  coper  dales 123 

Genus  Ly  coper  don 124 

Pear-shaped  Puff  ball 125 

Pinkish  Puffball 125 

Genus  Calvalia 126 

Brain-shaped  Calvatia 126 

Giant  Puffball 127 

Cup-shaped  Puffball 128 

Genus  Bovista 128 

Genus  Bovistella 129 

Bovistella  Ohiensis 129 

Genus  Geaster 129 

Earth-stars 129 

The  Smallest  Earth-star         .        .        .        .130 
Water-measuring  Earth-star  .        .        .        .130 

Genus  Calostoma 131 

Calostoma  lutescens 132 

Calostoma  Ravenelii 132 

Calostoma  cinnabarinum       .        .        .        .132 

Order  Nidulariales 133 

Genus  Sphcerobolus 133 

Genus  Nidularia 133 

Genus  Cyathus 133 

Genus  Crucibulum 133 

xvi 


Contents 

PAGE 

Order  Sclerodermatales 133 

Genus  Scleroderma 133 

Scleroderma  vulgare 134 

CHAPTER  XII  :  SPORE-SAC  FUNGI — ASCOMYCETES       .        .  135 

Order  Tuber  ales— TruJJles 135 

Order  Hypocreales 136 

Genus  Xylaria 136 

Order  Sphceriales 136 

Order  Females — Cup-fungi 137 

Peziza  odorata 137 

Golden  Peziza 138 

Order  Helvellales 138 

Family  Geoglossacece — Earth  Tongues      .        .        .138 

Genus  Spathularia 138 

Velvety  Spathularia 138 

Spathularia  clavata 139 

Genus  Geoglossum 139 

Geoglossum  hirsutum 139 

Geoglossum  glabrum 139 

Genus  Vibrissea 139 

Vibrissea  truncorum 139 

Vibrissea  circinans 140 

Genus  Mitrula 140 

Irregular  Mitrula 140 

Family  Helvellacea — Morels 140 

Genus  Gyromitra 141 

Gyromitra  esculenta 141 

Genus  Morchella 141 

Genus  Helvella 142 

Helvella  elastica 142 

Helvella  lacunosa 143 

CHAPTER  XIII  :  SLIME  FUNGI — MYXOMYCETES   .        .        .144 

CHAPTER  XIV  :  FUNGI  FOR  THE  HERBARIUM     .        .        .145 

Collector's  notes 145 

Collector's  outfit 147 

Care  of  specimens 147 

Collecting  spores 147 

The  search  for  a  name 149 

xvii 


Contents 

PAGE 

The  preparation  of  rough-dried  plants  for  the  herbarium     149 

Mounting 149 

Sections  .         .         .         .         .  .  .         .150 

Poisoning  herbarium  specimens 1 50 

CHAPTER  XV:  FUNGI  FOR  THE  TABLE  .        .        .        .151 

Cautions  for  the  inexperienced 151 

The  food  value  of  fungi 152 

To  keep  mushrooms  temporarily  .  .  .  .153 
To  prepare  the  edible  agarics  for  cooking  .  .  .153 

To  cook  agarics 153 

Mushrooms  stewed 153 

To  prepare  russulas 1 54 

To  prepare  fungi  with  milky  juice      .         .         .         .154 

Lactarius  deliciosus 154 

Lactarius  volemus -154 

To  prepare  amanitas         .         .         .         .         .         .154 

To  prepare  chanterelles 1 54 

To  fry  chanterelles    .         .         .         . .        .         .  1 54 

To  prepare  cop rini— ink  caps 154 

To  prepare  boleti 1 54 

To  prepare  Hydnum  repandum          .        .        .  1 54 

To  prepare  morels 1 54 

To  prepare  beefsteak  fungus 155 

For  salad -155 

Minced     . 155 

To  prepare  gyromitras 155 

To  prepare  woody  pore-bearing  fungi—  Polyporae.  .  155 
To  prepare  clavarias  and  branched  hydnums  .  .155 
To  cook  clavarias  .  .  .  .  .  .  .155 

To  prepare  and  cook  puffballs 155 

SOME  USEFUL  BOOKS  ON  MUSHROOMS     .  .        .157 

LIST  OF  POISONOUS  OR  SUSPECTED  MUSHROOMS       .        .159 
LIST  OF  EDIBLE  MUSHROOMS  ......     161 

ABBREVIATIONS  OF  NAMES  OF  BOTANISTS  WITH  EXPLANATIONS    165 
INDEX  AND  GLOSSARY 167 


xvm 


LIST  OF  PLATES 


I.  Amanitopsis  parcivolvata,  Pk.  (seep.  55)         Frontispiece 


FACING    PACE 


II.  Death  Cup;  Poison  Amanita  (Amanita  phalloides,  Fr.)  46 

III.  Orange  Amanita  (Amanita  Qesarea,  Scop.),  edible  .  47 

IV.  Fly  Amanita  (Amanita  muscaria,  L.),  poisonous        .  50 
V.  Sheathed  Amanitopsis  (Amanitopsis  vaginata,  Roze), 

edible .  51 

VI.  Strangled  Amanitopsis  (Amanitopsis  strangulata,  Fr. 

Roze),  edible 54 

VII.  Helmet  Mycena  (Mycena  galericulata,  Scop.),  edible  55 

VIII.  Scaly  Lentinus  (Lentinus  lepideus,  Fr.),  edible         .  58 

IX.  Grainy  Lepiota  (Lepiota  granosa,  Morg.),        .         .  59 
X.  Oyster  Mushroom  (Pleurotus  ostreatus,  Fr.),  edible 

(see  p.  57) 62 

XI.  Golden-flesh    Boletus    (Boletus    chrysenteron,    Fr.) 

(see  p.  106) 63 

Vermilion  Hygrophorus  (Hygrophorus  miniatus,  Fr.), 

edible 63 

Chantarelle  Hygrophorus  (Hygrophorus  cantharellus, 

Schw.),  edible  (see  p.  59)         .         .         .         .  63 

XII.  Smooth  Lepiota  (Lepiota  naucinoides,  Pk.),  edible  66 
Parasol  Mushroom  (Lepiota  procera,  Scop.),  edible 

(see  p.  63) .66 

XIII.  Spotted  Collybia  (Collybia  maculata,  A.  and  S.)     .  66 
Broad-gilled  Collybia  (Collybia  platyphylla,  Fr.)     .  66 

XIV.  Collybia  familia,  Pk.  (edible) 66 

Clitocybe  laccata,  Scop.,  edible  (see  p.  70)  .66 

XV.  Deceiving  Clitocybe  (Clitocybe  illudens,  Schw.)     .  67 

xix 


List  of  Plates 


PIATE  FACING  PAGE 

XVI.  Fat  Pholiota  (Pholiota  adiposa,  Fr.),  edible  (see 

9-83) 70 

Honey-coloured    Armillaria    (Armillaria    mellea, 

Vahl.),  edible 70 

XVII.  Lepiota  Friesii,  Lasch        .         .         .         .         .71 
Cortinarius  alboviolaceus,  Fr.  (see  p.  86)     .         .71 
XVIII.  Emetic    Russula    (Russula    emetica,    Schaeff.), 

(dangerous) 74 

XIX.  Pholiota  aggericola,  Peck  (see  p.  84)  ...  74 

Craterellus  cantharellus,  Schw.  (edible)       .         .  74 

XX.  Clitocybe  virens,  Scop,  (edible)  ....  75 
XXI.  Field  Mushroom  (Agaricus  campestris,  L.),  edible 

(uncultivated) 75 

XXII.  Rodman's  Mushroom  (Agaricus  Rodmani,  Pk.), 

young 78 

Rodman's  Mushroom  (mature)  .         .        .         .  78 

XXIII.  Agaricus  abruptus,  Pk.  (edible)  79 

XXIV.  Masked    Tricholoma    (Tricholoma    personatum, 

Fr.;  var.  bulbosum,  Pk.),  edible  ...  82 

XXV.  Agaricus  campestris,  L.,  edible  (see  p.  76)   .        .  82 

Agaricus  abruptus,  Pk.  (edible)           ...  82 
'XXVI.  Perplexing  Hypholoma  (Hypholoma  perplexum, 

Pk.),  harmless 82 

XXVII.  Uncertain    Hypholoma    (Hypholoma    incertum, 

Pk.),  edible 83 

XXVIII.  Brick  Top  (Hypholoma  sublateritium,  Schaeff.), 

edible 86 

XXIX.  Ivory  Hygrophorus  (Hygrophorus  eburneus,  Fr.), 

edible  (see  p.  61) 87 

Early  Pholiota  (Pholiota  praecox,  Pers.),  edible    .  87 

XXX.  Dog  Cortinarius  (Cortinarius  caninus,  Fr.)  .        .  90 

XXXI.  Mycena  haematopoda,  Pers.  (see  p.  55)  .90 

Lactarius  ligniotus,  Fr.      .    .    .        ,        .        .90 

xx 


List  of  Plates 
PLATE  FACING  PAGE 

XXXII.  Zoned  Cortinarius  (Cortinarius  armillatus,  A. 

and  S.,  Fr.) 91 

XXXIII.  Golden    Clavaria    (Clavaria    aurea,    Schaeff.), 

edible 91 

XXXIV.  Fawn-coloured     Pluteus     (Pluteus     cervinus, 

Schaeff.)*  edible       .....       94 
XXXV.  Inky  Coprinus  (Coprinus  atramentarius,   Fr.; 

var.  silvestris,  Pk.),  edible  (see  p.  91)          .      95 
XXXVI.  Inky  Coprinus  (Coprinus  atramentarius,  Fr.), 

edible 102 

XXXVII.  Peppery  Lactarius  (Lactarius  piperatus,  Scop.), 

edible 103 

XXXVIII.  Bear's-head  (Hydnum  caput-ursi,  Fr.),  edible  .     106 
XXXIX.  Cone-like  Boletus  (Strobilomyces  strobilaceus, 

Berk.) 106 

XL.  Little  Tongue  Clavaria  (Clavaria  ligula,  Fr.)     .     107 
XLI.  Bitter  Boletus  (Boletus  felleus,  Bull. ;  var.  obesus, 

Pk.) 107 

XLI  I.  Clavaria  formosa,  Pers.,  edible         .         .         .no 
XLI  1 1.  Painted  Boletinus  (Boletinus  pictus,  Pk.),  edible    1 1 1 
Spreading  Hydnum  (Hydnum  repandum,  L.), 

edible  (see  p.  95) 1 1 1 

XLIV.  Scabrous-stemmed  Boletus  (Boletus  scaber,  Fr.; 

var.  niveus,  Gill.)     .         .         .         .         .114 
XLV.  Tinder-wood  Polyporus  (Elfmgia  fomentaria,  L., 
Fomes  fomentarius,  Gill.,  Polyporus  fomen- 

tarius,  Fr.) 115 

XLVI.  Polyporus  versicolor,  Fr.          .         .         .         .118 

Polyporus  circinatus,  Fr.  (see  p.  113)        .        .118 

XLVI  I.  Lenzites  betulina,  Fr.     .         .         .         .         .119 

XLVI  1 1.  Daedalea  quercina,  L.,  Pers 112 

XLIX.  Phallus  impudicus,  L 122 

L.  Jew's  Ear  (Hirneola  auricula-Judae),  L.,  Berk.  .     123 
xxi 


List  of  Plates 

PIATE  FACING  PAGE 

LI.  Xylaria  (see  p.  136) 123 

LI  I.  Calostoma  Ravenelli,  Berk.,  Mass.         .        .        .123 
Calostoma  lutescens,  Schw.,  Burnap      .         .         .123 

Calostoma  cinnabarinum,  Desv 123 

Spathularia  velutipes,  C.  and  F.  (see  p.  138)  .        .     123 
LI II.  Pear-shaped      Puffball      (Lycoperdon     pyriforme, 

Schaeff.),  edible 126 

LIV.  Brain     Puffball     (Calvatia     craniformis,     Schw.), 

edible 127 

LV.  Bovistella  Ohiensis  (Ellis  and  Morgan),  edible  (see 

P-  129)  ....     134 

Cup-shaped  Calvatia  (Calvatia  cyathiformis,  Bosc.), 

edible  .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .134 

LV  I.  Least  Earth-star  (Geaster  minimus,  Schw.)     .         .     135 
Water-measuring  Earth-star  (Geaster  hygrometri- 

cus,  Pers.) .135 

Bird's  Nest  (Cyathus  vernicosus,  D.  C.)  (see  p.    133)  135 
LVII.  Cordyceps   capitala   (Holmsk.,    Lk.),   parasitic  on 

Elaphomyces 138 

Lycogola  epidendron  (see  p.  144)  .         .         .         .138 
Floccose      Chanterelle      (Cantharellus      floccosus, 

Schw.),  edible  (see  p.  53)        .         .         .         .138 

Mutinus  caninus,  Huds.  (see  p.  120)       .         .         .138 

LVII  I.  Golden  Peziza  (Peziza  aurantia,  Pers.),  edible.        .     139 

LIX.  Peziza  odorata,  Pk.,  edible  (see  p.  137)  .         .         .139 

LX.  Flesh  -  coloured    Puffball     (Lycoperdon    subincar- 

natum,  Pk.),  edible  (see  p.  125)       .         .         .     142 
Young    Pear-shaped    Puffball    (Lycoperdon    pyri- 
forme, Schaeff.),  edible  (see  p.  125).         .         .     142 
Hard-skinned  Puffball  (Scleroderma  vulgare,  Fr.)    .     142 
LXI.  Slippery  Leotia  (Leotia  lubrica),  edible  .         .         .     143 
Jelly-like  Tremellodon  (Tremellodon  gelatinosum)  .     143 
xxii 


List  of  Plates 
PLATE  FACING  PACK 

LXII.  Helvella  elastica,  Bull.  (seep.  142)        .         .        .146 

Helvella  lacunosa,  Holm,  (see  p.  143)    .         .         .146 

Mitrula  vitellina,  Sacc.,  var.  irregularis,  Pk.  .         .146 

LXII  I.  Delicious  Morel  (Morchella  deliciosa,  Fr.),  edible  .     150 

Polyporus  arcularius,  Batsch,  Fr.  (seep.  112)       .      150 

LXIV.  Bristly  Panus  (Panus  strigosus,  B.  and  C.)  (see 

p.  67) 151 


XXlll 


LIST  OF   ILLUSTRATIONS  IN  TEXT 

PAO» 

Coprinus  comatus,  Fr.  (old) i 

Coprinus  comatus,  Fr.  (mature) .       .        .        .        .       .       v 

Coprinus  comatus,  Fr.  (young) viii 

Puffball 4,  25 

Corollas  and  honey,  attractive  to  insects    ....        5 

Ingenious  stamens 5 

Pistil  of  violet 6 

Seed-box  of  iris 6 

Pistil  of  St.  Johns  wort        .......       6 

Seed-box  of  sacred  bean     .......        6 

Winged  seed  of  the  silver  fir 6 

Fern  with  spores  (Polypodium  vulgare)      ....        6 

Grass  spikelet 7 

Liverwort  (Marchantia  polymorpha)    .....        7 
Bean  seed  to  show  embryo         ......        7 

Indian  pipe .7 

Moss  (Dicranum  scoparium)  (natural  size)          ...        8 
White  mould  on  dead  fly  .......        8 

Spores  borne  in  delicate  membranous  sacs .        .        .        .  9,  17 

Bread  mould 9 

Spores  borne  on  little  spicules    .        .        .        .        .        •  $•  17 

Spores  as  simple  cells         .        .        .        ,       .        .        .11 
Spores  divided  into  several  cells         .        .        .        ...      1 1 

Mycelial  threads         .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .       n 

Mushroom  buttons     .        .        .        •  .     •        .        «        .       n 
Young  mushroom      .        .......      n 

Puffball      ....  v        ....      If 

xxv 


List  of  Illustrations  in  Text 

PACK 

Mushroom  to  show  veil .12 

Mushroom  to  show  cap,  ring,  gills,  and  stem     .        .        .12 
Mushroom  to  show  veil  on  stem  and  cap   .        .  .12 

Section  across  gill  (magnified) 12 

A  small  portion  of  section  of  gill  (highly  magnified)   .        .       13 

Corn  smut 13,  22 

Leaf  rust  on  Hepatica  triloba 13,22 

Pouch-fungus,  section  to  show  spores  in  hollow  rind          .       14 

Section  to  show  gills 14 

Section  of  a  Boletus,  to  show  pores    .        .        .        .       14,  102 

Clavaria  with  spores  on  spines 14 

Section  of  Hydnum,  to  show  teeth 14 

Section  of  stroma  with  perithecia  (magnified)     .        .        .18 

Perithecium  (highly  magnified) 18 

Outer  surface  of  truffle 1 8 

Section  of  truffle 18 

Fleshy  cup-like  fungi 19,  20 

Club-shaped  fungus 19,21 

Conic,  convex,  and  pitted  fungus       ....          19-21 

Fungus  with  gyrose  furrows 19,  20 

Saddle-shaped  fungus 19, 20 

Fungus  with  spore  surface  flat,  running  down  the  sides     .      2 1 
Fungus  with  gills       .......         22,  30 

Fungus  with  pores     .......         23,  42 

Fungus  with  spines 23 

Calostoma 23,  29 

Geaster      .........         23,  28 

Nidularia 23,  24 

Clathrus  cancellatus   .        •        .        .        .        .         24,  26,  121 
Simblum  rubescens    .        .        «       •        .        .         24,  26,  122 

Anthurus  borealis 24,  26,  121 

Mutinus 27 

Phallus  impudicus 24,  27,  1 19 

xxvi 


List  of  Illustrations  in  Text 
PAGE 

Embryo  plant  of  Mutinus  caninus       .        .        .        .24,  120 

Scleroderma  vulgare 25 

Section  of  Scleroderma  vulgare 25,  134 

Mutinus  caninus,  young  plant;  embryo  plant     .        .        .120 

Bovista 28,  128 

Section  of  Bovista  (diagrammatic)      .        .        .        .       28,  128 

Calvatia 28,  126 

Section  of  Calvatia 28,  126 

Geaster 28 

Lycoperdon 29 

Section  of  Lycoperdon  (diagrammatic)        .        .        .       29,124 

Bovistella 29 

Section  of  Bovistella 29,  129 

Clavaria 30 

Section  of  Hydnum 30 

Cap  of  Hydnum  imbricatum       .        .        .        .        .        30,  96 
Cap  with  striations  on  the  margin      .        .        .        .30,  40,  50 

Bracket  fungus .».'•.        .        .31 

Resupinate  fungus 31 

Boletus  Satanus .31 

Polyporus  quercina 31 

Pleurotus,  stem  central       .......      32 

Pleurotus,  stem  eccentric    .......      32 

Pleurotus,  stem  wanting 32 

Gills  toothed,  Lentinus 32 

Lamellae  entire 33 

Stem  eccentric 33 

Lamellae  simple 33 

Fungus  with  volva  and  annulus 34 

Volva,  but  no  annulus 34 

Annulus,  but  no  volva 34 

Lamellae  free  from  stem      ......         34,  39 

Annulus  movable       .        .        , 34 

xxvii 


List  of  Illustrations  in  Text 

PACK 

Lamellae  united  with  stem 34 

Lamellae  decurrent 35,  37,  39,  40 

Lamellae  adnate .35.  37.  39 

Lamellae  sinuate 35 

Volva  wanting;  annulus  wanting 35 

Lamellae  in  shallow  folds 36 

Volva  present;  annulus  wanting 37 

Volva  none;  annulus  none 37 

Annulus  arachnoid 38 

Lamellae  adnate 38 

Veil  remaining  on  stem  as  annulus 39 

Volva  none 39 

Veil  attached  to  margin  of  pileus 39 

Lamellae  deliquescent 40 

Spores  fusiform 40 

Spores  globose   .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .40 

Hydnum  with  central  stem         .        .        .        .        .        .41 

Branched  Hydnum .41 

Lamellae  labyrinthine,  woody 43 

Lamellae  radial,  woody 43 

Pores  long-hexagonal 43 

Pores  in  the  form  of  tubes,  stem  lateral      .        .        .        .  44 

Pores  in  the  form  of  tubes,  stem  central      ....  44 

Section  of  young  Amanita  in  wrapper        ....  47 

Young  Amanita  in  wrapper 47 

Young  Amanita  in  ruptured  wrapper          ....  47 

Section  of  Amanita  muscaria      ......  47 

Cap  striate,  and  free  from  warts 50 

Section  of  Amanita  Caesarea 50 

Young  plant  of  Amanita  Caesarea 50 

Section  of  Cantharellus  floccosus 53 

Section  of  Amanitopsis  vaginata         .....  54 

Section  of  Amanitopsis  parci volvata 55 

xxviii 


List  of  Illustrations  in  Text 
PACK 

Section  of  Lentinus  lepideus 56 

Section  of  Pleurotus  ostreatus 57 

Section  of  Pleurotus  sapidus       ......  58 

Section  of  Pleurotus  ulmarius 59 

Section  of  Hygrophorus  miniatus       •        «        •        .        •  60 

Section  of  Hygrophorus  eburneus       .....  61 

Section  of  Armillaria  mellea         ......  62 

Section  of  Lepiota  procera 63 

Section  of  Lepiota  naucinoides   ,        .....  64 

Section  of  Collybia  familia  .......  67 

Section  of  Russula  emetica 68 

Section  of  Russula  virescens 69 

Section  of  Clitocybe  laccata 71 

Section  of  Tricholoma  personatum  (var.  bulbosum)    .        .  72 

Section  of  Craterellus  cantharellus 73 

Section  of  Agaricus  Rodmani 76 

Section  of  Agaricus  abruptus 77 

Section  of  Hypholoma  perplexum 79 

Section  of  Hypholoma  incertum 80 

Section  of  Hypholoma  sublateritium  .        .        .        .        .81 

Section  of  Pholiota  adiposa 83 

Section  of  Pholiota  praecox         ......  84 

Section  of  Cortinarius  violaceus  ......  86 

Section  of  Pluteus  cervinus 87 

Section  of  Lactarius  piperatus 93 

Section  of  Hydnum  repandum 95 

Section  of  Hydnum  caput-ursi 96 

Boletus  Satanus 107 

Under  surface  of  Lenzites  betulina     .        .        .        .        .  113 

Favolus  areolarius 115 

Section  of  young  phallus 119 

Mutinus  bambusinus 120 

)Lycoperdon 124 

xxix 


List  of  Illustrations  in  Text 

few 

Section  of  Lycoperdon  (diagrammatic)                        .        .  124 

Asci  and  paraphyses 135 

Section  of  truffle  to  show  position  of  asci  .        .        .       .  135 

Truffle,  ascoma 135 

Fungus  growing  on  caterpillar 135 

Section  of  Peziza  odorata  to  show  two  layers     .        .        .  137 

Gyromitra  esculenta 141 

Morchella  esculenta 141 

Section  of  Morchella  deliciosa 141 

Helvella              *• 142 

Helvetia  lacunosa  (diagrammatic) 143 


XXX 


THE   MUSHROOM   BOOK 


CHAPTER  I :  THE  HOMES  AND  HABITS 
OF  FUNGI 

FOR  centuries  epicures  have  used  certain  fungi  for  food. 
The  Greeks  and  Romans  esteemed  them  highly,  and  gave  a  great 
deal  of  consideration  to  favourable  times  and  places  for  gathering 
them,  and  to  choice  methods  of  preparing  them  for  the  table. 
Juvenal  tells  us  of  one  old  Roman  enthusiast  who  was  so  carried 
away  by  his  love  for  them  as  to  exclaim,  "Keep  your  corn,  O 
Libya,  unyoke  your  oxen,  provided  only  you  send  us  mush- 
rooms ! "  Horace  says  that  mushrooms  which  grow  in  the  fields 
are  the  best,  and  that  one  can  have  but  little  faith  in  other  kinds. 
Mushroom  eaters  of  the  present  day  would  perhaps  not  agree 
with  him,  for  they  find  edible  species  in  every  imaginable  place 
where  fungi  grow,  and  are  constantly  adding  to  their  list  new 
varieties  which  they  esteem  delicious. 

Although  for  centuries  it  has  been  known  that  some  fungi 
contain  most  virulent  poisons,  still,  through  ignorance  of  those 
points  which  distinguish  the  poisonous  from  the  edible,  frequent 
cases  of  poisoning  occur  in  all  classes  of  society.  The  mistakes 
resulting  in  death  have  been  frequent  enough  to  inspire  the  timid 
with  an  overpowering  dread  of  all  fungi,  while  the  damp  and 
grewsome  places  in  which  many  fungi  flourish  have  caused  them 
to  be  despised  by  others.  The  following  lines  from  Shelley  very 
aptly  express  the  general  sentiment : 

"  And  plants,  at  whose  names  the  verse  feels  loath, 
Fill'd  the  place  with  a  monstrous  undergrowth, 
Prickly  and  pulpous,  and  blistering  and  blue, 
Livid,  and  starr'd  with  a  lurid  dew. 

I 


The  Homes  and  Habits  of  Fungi 

"  And  agarics  and  fungi,  with  mildew  and  mould, 
Started  like  mist  from  the  wet  ground  cold  ; 
Pale,  fleshy,  as  if  the  decaying  dead 
With  a  spirit  of  growth  had  been  animated." 

SHELLEY:  "  The  Sensitive  Plant." 

To  many  people  the  only  growths  known  as  fungi  are  toad- 
Itools  and  mushrooms.  They  give  the  name  mushrooms  to  the 
species  known  to  them  as  edible,  and  regard  all  other  similar 
growths  as  toadstools,  things  uncanny  or  poisonous. 

"  The  grisly  todestool  grown  there  mought  I  see, 
And  loathed  paddocks  [toads]  lording  on  the  same." 

SPENSER'S  "Faerie  Queene." 

This  distinction  has  no  scientific  basis,  and  in  fact  most  of 
the  species  called  toadstools  are  edible.  Fungi  are  not  always 
the  grewsome  things  of  Shelley  and  Spenser.  In  their  ranks  are 
many  which  delight  the  eye  with  their  colouring  and  the  sym- 
metry of  their  forms.  They  are  the  grotesques  of  nature;  nests, 
hoofs,  cups,  umbrellas,  shells,  and  clubs  are  represented,  together 
with  spheres,  hemispheres,  cones,  and  many  other  geomet- 
rical figures.  The  mildew  on  the  linen,  the  mould  on  food, 
the  rusts  and  smuts  which  blight  our  fields  of  grain,  and  the  dry 
rot  which  crumbles  our  lumber  to  dust  and  which  causes  old 
wood  in  dark  places  to  glow  with  a  weird,  pale,  flickering  light, 
are  all  forms  of  one  group  or  another  of  these  plants  which  prey 
upon  living  or  dead  organic  matter.  In  ordinary  observation, 
only  the  simpler  and  more  noticeable  fungi  are  taken  into  account, 
but  they  are  in  reality  met  with  in  almost  every  situation  imagin- 
able. They  are  found  in  damp  cellars  and  in  rooms  shut  off 
from  the  light ;  in  fact,  some  form  of  fungus  will  be  found  in 
every  place  and  on  everything  which  is  not  exposed  to  a  circula- 
tion of  fresh  air. 

In  woods  and  open  fields  the  attractive  forms  are  found.  In 
shady  woods  the  beautiful  white  "bear's  head "  hangs  on  stately 
tree  trunks,  and  the  "destroying  angels"  gleam  white  in  the 
shadows  on  the  ground.  Shelving  brackets,  green  or  red  or 
brown,  encircle  old  stumps,  or  stand  out  stiff  and  white  from 
the  crumbling  trunks  of  fallen  moss-grown  monarchs  of  the 
forest,  while  wood-brown  toadstools  huddle  in  groups  among 


The  Homes  and  Habits  of  Fungi 

the  fallen  leaves.  On  the  outskirts  of  the  wood,  green  and  red 
Russulas  vie  with  the  flowers  in  the  brilliancy  of  their  colouring. 
Pink  or  violet  Clavarias,  dainty  corals,  border  the  wood  path,  and 
golden  Clavarias  lighten  up  the  sombre  wood  tints  with  their 
yellow  branches.  In  dry  pastures  and  along  wood  roads,  puff- 
balls,  large  and  small,  send  up  their  puffs  of  brown  smoke,  to  the 
delight  of  every  passing  child  who  strikes  them  with  a  wand. 
On  lawns  and  hillsides  the  Oreades  cause  fairy  rings  to  grow. 
The  fairy  rings  are  circles,  or  parts  of  circles,  of  impoverished  grass 
of  a  lighter  colour  and  less  luxuriant  growth  than  that  of  the  grass 
immediately  surrounding  the  circle.  Before  the  existence  of  fairy 
folk  came  to  be  doubted,  it  was  firmly  believed  that  these  fairy 
rings  were  the  dancing  grounds  of  the  fairies. 

"  The  nimble  elves 

That  do  by  moonshine  green  sour  ringlets  make 
Whereof  the  ewe  bites  not ;  whose  pastime  'tis 
To  make  these  midnight  mushrooms." 

Rev.  GERARD  SMITH. 

The  rings  on  the  commons  increase  in  size  until  sometimes 
two  or  more  rings  intersect  to  form  a  labyrinth  of  green  network. 
Rings  appear  year  after  year  in  the  same  place,  and  then  disap- 
pear, to  reappear  after  an  interval  of  a  few  seasons.  As  long  as 
the  fairies  existed  in  the  imaginations  of  the  people,  it  was  easy  to 
account  for  these  strange  happenings — the  fairies  danced  in  the 
moonshine,  and  the  grass  was  worn  down  under  their  feet.  If 
they  were  displeased  and  left  the  neighbourhood,  the  rings  disap- 
peared too.  As  this  fancy  was  given  up,  other  solutions  of  the 
mystery  were  sought.  Some  believed  that  the  ring  was  caused 
by  a  thunder-bolt  entering  the  ground  at  this  spot,  and  still  others 
were  confident  that  it  was  caused  by  moles.  The  true  solution 
is  not  hard  to  find,  to  one  familiar  with  the  habit  of  growth  of  the 
fungus  plant.  One  fungus  plant  growing  alone  upon  the  lawn 
will  soon  exhaust  the  soil  directly  beneath  it  of  all  true  fungus 
food.  Of  all  the  spores  which  fall  from  the  parent  plant  only 
those  will  grow  which  fall  without  this  impoverished  spot,  and 
so  a  ring  of  toadstools  is  formed.  Again,  only  those  spores 
which  fall  outside  the  ring  will  find  good  fungus  food,  and  so 
the  ring  widens  always  outward,  forming  a  perfect  circle,  unless 
something  on  one  side  or  other  interferes  with  its  travels.  The 

3 


The  Homes  and  Habits  of  Fungi 

decaying  ring  of  fungi  temporarily  stimulates  the  grass  around  it, 
so  that  its  rich  colour  stands  out  in  circles  or  arcs  of  circles  against 
the  less  highly  nourished  grass.  Such  rings  are  conspicuous  on 
the  lawns  of  the  White  House  at  Washington,  and  are  often  to 
be  seen  well  defined  on  distant  hillsides. 

Brackets  and  mushrooms  and  puffballs  grow  in  warm,  moist 
places  where  they  find  decaying  wood  and  leaves  to  feed  upon. 
Old  tree  trunks  and  fallen  logs,  rich  leaf  mould,  and  cattle  pastures 
are  their  favourite  haunts. 

The  reason  for  their  choice  of  place  is  invariably  connected 
with  the  question  of  food,  for  fungi  can  thrive  only  where  they 
can  obtain  organic  matter,  as  they  have  lost  the  power  which  all 
green  plants  have  of  feeding  on  inorganic  or  mineral  matter.  All 
plants  must  have  food  with  which  to  form  plant  flesh.  Green 
plants  by  means  of  their  leaf  green — the  only  agent  in  the  world 
which  has  the  power  to  turn  lifeless  mineral  matter  into  living 
matter — take  the  element  carbon  from  the  air,  and  hydrogen  gas 
and  oxygen  gas  from  water,  and  with  their  green  granules,  by  some 
mysterious  process,  make  of  the  elements  hydrogen,  oxygen,  and 
carbon,  compounds  of  wood  and  starch  and  sugar.  Fungus  plants 
have  none  of  this  leaf  green  and  must  therefore  feed  on  material 
which  has  been  manufactured  by  green  plants. 

To  define  fungi  simply,  so  as  to  include  all  the  varieties,  would 
be  a  difficult  task  ;  but  in  general  it  may  be  said  that  they  are 
plants  which  have  no  leaf  green  and  which  do  not  grow  from  true 
seeds,  but  from  dustlike  bodies  resembling  in  appearance  the  yel- 
low pollen  of  roses  or  lilies. 

The  fungi  have  no  flowers  and  produce  no 
seeds.  They  produce  spores  instead,  fine  dust-like 
particles,  which  are  borne  in  special  places  on  the 
mature  plant,  whether  a  mould  or  mildew,  a  toad- 
stool, puffball,  or  bracket.  The  cap  of  a  mush- 
room placed  right  side  up  on  a  piece  of  paper  under 
an  inverted  glass  will  print  with  its  spores  a  pic- 
p  ffb  1  *ure  °^  ^e  radiating  leaves  or  gills  beneath.  A 

slight  blow  on  a  puffball  in  the  pasture  will  cause 
a  puff  of  smoke-like  dust  to  rise  from  it — really  millions  of  spores 
that  have  ripened  inside  the  puffball  and  are  now  ready  to  grow 
into  new  puffball  plants  when  they  fall  on  favourable  soil. 


CHAPTER  II  :  THE  RELATION  OF  FUNGI 
TO  OTHER  PLANTS 


A  CLASSIFICATION  or  orderly  arrangement  of  material  collected 
for  study  is  indispensable  to  true  pleasure  and  profit.  The  nature 
student  must  classify  both  his  specimens  and  the  knowledge  he 

may  obtain  about  them  ;  for,  as  Spen- 
cer has  said,  "When  a  man's  knowl- 
edge is  not  in  order,  the  more  of  it 
he  has  the  greater  will  be  his  confu- 
sion of  thought."  As  he  compares  his 
specimens  he  sees  interesting  grada- 
tions of  resemblance,  and  becomes  fas- 
cinated with  the  pleasure  of  tracing 
their  relationships  and  the  gradual  evo- 
lution of  higher  forms  from  lower. 

Every  lover  of  nature  who  haunts 
the  fields  and  woods  acquires  a  rich 
store  of  facts  about  plant  life,  and  with- 
out, perhaps,  recognising  that  he  does 
so,  distinguishes  two  great  groups  of  plants — those  which  have 
attractive  flowers,  and  those  which  have  no  flowers  at  all.  His 
flowerless  plants  bear  no  seeds,  but  quan- 
tities of  fine,  dust-like  particles  which  rise 
in  the  air  as  he  brushes  his  stick  over  their 
green  leaves.  As  the  powers  of  observa- 
tion develop,  he  distinguishes  the  ferns 
and  Christmas  greens  among  flowerless 
plants,  and  perhaps  soon  recognises  that 
the  soft  green  moss  bank,  too,  is  composed  of  small  plants, 
and  that  the  green  mats,  the  liverworts,  on  stones  and  moist 
banks  and  logs,  are  plants  also.  His  only  reason,  perhaps,  for 
calling  them  plants  is  that  they  grow  and  are  green.  He  may 


Corollas  and  honey,  at- 
tractive to  insects 


Ingenious  stamens 


The  Relation  of  Fungi  to  Other  Plants 


Pistil  of     Pistil  of 


Seed-box  of 


learn  with  the  microscope  that  the  pond  scums  which  he  had 
thought  disgusting  frog-spittle  are  in  truth  tangles  of  exquisite 
plants,  made  up  of  chains  of  slender,  transpar- 
ent cells  finer  than  silken  threads,  each  cell 
containing  many  tiny  green  par- 
TV  uifl  tides  °^  lea^  £reen>  or  cnlor°- 

fi)      III       PnyN— the   cause    of    the 

W      till       colour  of  all  green  plants. 

At  first  the  most  conspicu- 
ous plants  attract  the  attention, 
and  afterwards,  in  succession, 

violet      St.  Johns-    .,  ,  ,    , 

^          those  less  and  less  conspicuous. 
They,  in   reality,    present  them- 
selves in  great  natural  groups,  readily  distinguished 
by  well-marked  characteristics. 

It  will  be  seen,  as  these 
pass  in  review,  that  they  are 
conspicuous    according   as 
they  are  complex.     The  gorgeous  flow- 
ering plants   have  complicated  methods 
of  reproduction 
— corollas    and 
honey,    attrac- 
tive to  insects  ; 
ingenious    sta- 
mens,  pistils,  seed-boxes,  and  seeds. 
The  humble  grasses,   with  their  close 
relatives,     dispense     with 
gay   colours   and  the   as- 
sistance   of    insects,    and 
trust  to  the  breezes  to  carry 
their  pollen    to   its    goal. 
The  pines  and  their  allies 
are  a  step  nearer  simplic- 
ity,   and    do   not   enclose 
Winged  seed  their  seeds  in  a  seed-box 
Sll~  at  all,  but   provide   them 
with   wings  for  dissemi- 
nation, and  leave  them  exposed  to  the 
wind. 

(6] 


Seed-box  of  sacred  bean 


of  the 
ver  fir 


Fern    with 


spores       (Polypo- 
vulgare) 


The  Relation  of  Fungi  to  Other  Plants 


Liverwort  (Marchantia 
polymorphd) 


The  ferns  and  Christmas  greens  (Lycopodiums)  have  no 
flowers,  and  therefore  no  true  seeds.  They  have  a  distinct  stem, 
which  grows  from  the  apex  and  is  strength- 
ened by  woody  fibres,  which  may  readily  be 
seen  by  breaking  the  stem  across.  The 
woody  fibres  so  strengthen  the  tissues  of 
these  plants  that  they  are  able  to  stand  erect 
and  make  a  conspicuous  appearance  not  pos- 
sible to  the 
small  moss- 
es and  liv- 
erworts , 
which  are 

spore-bearing   plants   with   no 
woody  fibre. 

The    plants    of    all    these 

Grass  spikelet  g™uPs     re~ 

semble  each 

other  in  descending  degrees,  so  that  they  may 
be  classed  in  groups  under  groups.  Similar 
specimens  may  form  groups  of  species. 
Species  may  form  larger  groups,  or  genera. 
Genera  with  common  characteristics  may 
form  families  ;  and  groups  of  families,  orders ; 
and  orders,  classes ;  while  classes  unite  to 
form  branches,  or  phylae. 

A  botanist  relies  for  the  classification  of 

his     specimens 

mainly  upon  the 

similarity  of  those 

parts  of  the  plant 

which  produce 

the  seeds  or 

spores  rather  than 

upon  those  parts — the  roots  and  leaves  and 
stems — which  have  the  work  of  the  plant 
household  to  do.  He  finds  that  the  seed 
and  spore  producing  parts  are 


Bean  seed  open  to  show  embryo 


Indian  pipe 


more  con- 
stant in  their  forms  and  habits  than  the  leaves  and  stems   and 
roots,   which    are    more    exposed,   and    which    are    constantly 

7 


The  Relation  of  Fungi  to  Other  Plants 


Moss  (Dicranum  scoparium)  (natural  size) 


being  forced  to  a  change  of  form  which  will  better  suit  their 
changed  surroundings. 

The  novice  sees  nothing  in  the  brown,  or  even  in  the  highly 

coloured,  fungi  to  war- 
rant his  calling  them 
plants.  They  are  to  him 
"just  toadstools  ;"  for 
green  colouring  matter 
— his  first  criterion  for 
plants — is  not  there,  and, 
moreover,  there  is  noth- 
ing in  their  shape  which 
suggests  to  him  the 
plants  with  which  he  is 
familiar.  The  snow- 
white  Indian  pipe  lacks 
the  green  of  most  plants, 
but  that  does  not  rule  it 
for  him  out  of  the  plant 
world  ;  for  although  it 
is  colourless,  and  depends  upon  other  plants  for  food,  still  it 
has  a  flower  form  and  produces  a  seed-box  with  well-devel- 
oped seeds.  Fungi,  however,  to  any  but  the  close  student 
must  seem  quite  unrelated  to  all  normal  plant  forms.  But  the 
botanist,  by  a  study  of  their  structure,  finds 
that  they  all  grow  from  microscopic,  dust- 
like  particles,  which  differ  from  true  seeds  in 
consisting  of  but  one  or  a  few  cells,  and  in 
having  no  embryo  plant  in  them  as  true 
seeds  have.  He  recognises  their  position  in 
the  kingdom  of  living  things,  and  classes 
them  as  spore-bearing  plants,  lower  than 
the  group  of  mosses,  those  dainty  plants 
which  delight  every  one  with  their  graceful- 
ness, and  which  bear  their  spores  in  tiny  cap- 
sules or  boxes  set  up  on  slender  stems.  By  studying  their  life 
history  he  decides  that  they  are  degenerate  members  of  the  low- 
est group — the  algae — and  that  they  have  fostered  the  habit  of 
feeding  on  material  constructed  by  green  plants,  instead  of  con- 
structing food  material  for  themselves,  and  have,  in  consequence, 

8 


White  mould  on  dead 
fly 


The  Relation  of  Fungi  to  Other  Plants 


lost  their  power  of  constructing  such  food,  and  also  their  green 
granules  by  which  this  work  of  construction  may  be  carried  on. 
The  life  history  and  structure  of  fungi 
has  been  studied  so  minutely  that  one  is  Spore  cases 
able  to  arrange  them  in  three  well- 
marked  classes: 

The  first  class,  the  algal-like  fungi 
(Phy corny cetes),  includes  bread  moulds 
and  several  of  those  fungi  which  cause 
diseases  of  plants  and  animals — the 
downy  mildew  on  the  grape,  the  potato 
rot,  the  common  white  mould  which 
fastens  dead  flies  to  the  walls  or  window 
panes  in  the  autumn,  and  the  fungus 
which  grows  on  salmon 


Threads 


Bread  mould  (mag- 
nified) 


ous 
fied) 


and  causes  them  to  die  in  great  numbers.  The 
plant  of  these  fungi  is  cobwebby,  sometimes 
growing  within  the  cells  of  the  plant  substance  on 
which  it  lives,  and  sometimes  growing  both 
within  and  on  the  surface.  A  freshly  moulded 
piece  of  moist  bread  shows  the  bread  covered  with 
exquisitely  fine  transparent  threads,  which  con- 
stitute the  plant.  Later,  spore  cases  containing 
tiny  black  spores  will  be  seen,  which  give  a  del- 
Spores  borne  in  del-  icate  gray  tint  to  the  plant  at  first,  but  later  form 
icate  membran-  a  black,  repulsive  mass  as  their  numbers  increase. 
\sacs  (magm-  These  plants  are  regarded  as  descendants  of  de- 
generate algae,  which  lost  their  power  of  inde- 
pendent existence  through  stealing  their  food 
instead  of  making  it  for  themselves. 

The  second  class,  the  spore-sac  fungi, 
produce  their  spores  in  delicate  membranous 
sacs.  The  spore-sac  fungi  vary  greatly  in 
size,  habit,  and  structure.  Most  of  them 
are  inconspicuous  members  of  the  plant 
world,  as  the  yeast  plant,  by  which  our 
bread  is  raised  ;  the  fungus  which  causes 
the  peach  leaves  to  curl  and  the  black  knots 
to  appear  on  cherry  and  plum  trees. 

The  third  class  is  made  up  of  all  fungi  which  bear  their 


Spores  borne   on  little 
spicules  (magnified) 


The  Relation  of  Fungi  to  Other  Plants 

spores  on  little  spicules  standing  up  on  large  cells.  This  con- 
tains most  of  the  conspicuous  fungi  one  will  care  about  knowing. 
To  understand  the  group  one  must  understand  the  method  by 
which  a  spore  grows  to  be  a  fungus  plant,  and  to  be  able  to 
distinguish  the  different  members  of  the  group  one  must  know 
on  just  what  portions  of  the  spore  receptacle  the  spores  are 
borne. 


10 


CHAPTER  III :   FROM  SPORE  TO  MUSHROOM 


its 


o   O 


(3) 


THE  way  in  which  a  spore  grows  into  a  fungus  plant  is  very 
simple : 

(1)  The  spore  is  a  single  cell,  and  when  it  is  in  a  warm, 
moist  place  it  swells. 

(2)  The  cell    absorbs   food    through 
cell  wall  and  divides  into  two  cells. 

Each  new  cell  absorbs  food  and 

divides   until    long    chains    of    cells    are 
formed,  looking  to  the  unaided  eye  like 
threads.     Each  thread  is  a  hypha,  and  a 
tangle  of  threads  is  a  mycelium. 
(4)  In  the  soil  the  mycelium  nour- 
ishes   itself    on    decaying    vegetable 
matter,   and  grows  ;  then,  at  certain 
points,  the  threads    mat  together  to 
form    little    balls    the   size    of    pin- 
heads  (a). 

(b)  The  pinheads  grow  to  the  size 
of  bird-shot. 

(c)  The  bird-shot  increase  to  the  size 
of  shoe-buttons. 

(5)  If  the  ball 
is    to    become    a 

stemmed  toadstool,  a  minute  stem  ap- 
pears on  the  button.  The  stem  and 
button  increase  in  size.  The  button  is 
lifted  above  the  soil  and  expands  into  a 
mushroom. 

(6)  If  the  button  is  to  become  a  puff- 
ball,  no  stem  appears  on  the  button  ;  but 

ii 


From  Spore  to  Mushroom 


Puffball 


Gills 


Stem 


it  grows,  and  comes  out  of  the  ground  a  round  puffball.    (See 
Plate  opposite  p.  124.) 

If  one  wishes  to  learn  to  distinguish  the  members  of  the 
mushroom  or  toadstool  family,  either 
for  the  pleasure  he  may  derive  from 
knowing  them,  or  from  a  desire  to 
distinguish  the  edible  from  the  poison- 
ous, he  must 
be  f a  m  i  1  i a r 
with  the  typi- 
cal parts  of  the 
fungus  plant, 
and  m  ust 
know  the  names  of  these  parts. 

The  edible  mushroom  of  the  market 
(Agaricus  campestris) 
serves  well  for  study, 

Veil l-f^*XBffil  as  it  shows  some  of 

the  characteristics 
which     all    the   toad- 
stools,   mushrooms,    brackets,  and   puffballs 
have  in  common. 

(i)  This  mushroom  is  in  shape  some- 
thing like  a  parasol. 

(2)  The  handle  is  the  stem,  or  stipe. 

(3)  The  open  top  is  the  cap,  or  pileus. 

(4)  Under 
the  cap,  radi- 
ating      from 

the    stalk    to  Ring.. 

Spores  on      ,  ,  » 

slender  processes    trie     CUgC      OI 

the   cap,    are 

thin  P^tes-the  gills,  or  lamellae. 

(5)  When   the   mushroom   is  in 
.short  ceiis  the  button   stage,   the  gills   are  not 

visible,   for    they   are    covered    with 
a    thin    sheet    of   mycelial    threads, 
called  the  veil.     (See   coloured  plate 
of  Agaricus  campestris.) 
(6)  As  the  button  grows  the  veil  stretches,  and  finally  breaks, 

13 


Club-shaped  bodies 


Section  across  gill  (magnified) 


Prom  Spore  to  Mushroom 


A  small  portion  of  section  of  gill 
(highly  magnified) 


feaving  a  ragged  edge  to  the  cap,  and  a  ring  or  annulus  of  veil 

around  the  stem.     The  gills  of  the  Agaricus  are  not  fastened  to 

the  stem,  but  are  rounded  off  at 

the    end    near  the    stem,    while 

others,   between   the   long  ones, 

extend  from  the  edge  of  the  cap 

only  far  enough  toward  the  stem 

to  fill   up  the  angles  formed  by 

the  long  gills. 

The  surface  of  the  gills  is  the 

fruiting  portion  of  the  mushroom. 

It  is    here    that    the  spores    are 

formed. 

The  structure  of  the  fungus 

plant  up   to  this  point  has  been 

similar  throughout.    A  loose  tangle 

of  threads  underground  formed  the  myce- 
lium —  the  food  provider.  A  more  closely 
matted  tangle  above  ground  formed  the 
stem  and  cap  and  veil,  and  even  the  central 
part  of  the  gill  —  the  fruiting  parts  of  the 
plant. 

On  the  surface  of  the  gill  a  difference 
in  structure  is  found,  which  will  be  clearly 
understood  from  a  picture  of  a  thin  section 
cut  across  a  gill. 

(i)  The  central  portion  of  the  gill  is 
made  by  loosely  tangled  mycelium  threads 
(tr)  draping  themselves  in  thin  plates  from 
the  surface  of 
the  cap. 

(2)  Just   outside  of  this  loose 
mycelium,  on  either  side,  are  layers 
of  short  cells  (c),  which  bear  club- 
shaped   bodies    standing    out  over 
both  surfaces  of  the  gills  (b). 

(3)  Each  club  bears  two  slen- 
der processes  (sf)  at  the  free  end, 
and    each   process    bears    a    spore 


Corn  smut 


Leaf  rust  on  Hepatica  triloba 


13 


From  Spore  to  Mushroom 


Section  to  show  gills 


Section  of  a  Boletus, 
to  show  pores 


All   corn  smuts,  wheat  smuts,  leaf  rusts,  toadstools,  puff- 
balls,  and  brackets  bear  their  spores  on  club-like  cells,  and  for 

this  reason  are  put  in  one  group,  called 
Basidiomycetes. 

The  fact  that  corn  smuts  and  leaf 
rusts  feed  on  living 
plants,  while  toad- 
stools, brackets, 
and  puffballs  feed 
on  dead  plants, 

Pouch-fungus  section,  to  show 
spores  in  hollow  rind 

to    two    groups ; 
the  smuts  and  rusts  forming  the  lower  group, 

and  the  others  the  higher  group.  It  is  the 
higher  Basidiomycetes  which  we  wish  to  con- 
sider, as  this  group  includes  most  of  the  con- 
spicuous fungi,  most  of  the  edi- 
ble, and  those  fungi  which  are 
dangerous  because  of  their  re- 
semblance to  edible  species. 

Remembering  that  toadstools,  puffballs,  and 
brackets  all  start  from  spores  ;  that  all  have  the 

tangled  thread  -  like 
plants,  seeking  the 
dark  ;  that  they  all 
have  the  spore  recep- 
tacle in  the  light,  and 
bear  their  spores  on  club-like  cells, 
one  can  readily  understand  their  be- 
ing put  in  one  group. 

With  a  few  exceptions  not 
necessary  for  us  to  consider,  all  the 
higher  fungi  naturally  divide  into 
two  groups — pouch-fungi  (Gasteromycetes),  which  conceal  their 
spores  in  a  definite  rind,  or  peridium,  as  the  puffballs  do  ; 
and  membrane  fungi  (Hymenomycetes),  now  called  Agari- 
cales,  which  bear  their  spores  exposed  on  the  surface  of  gills, 
pores,  spines,  or  teeth,  as  the  garden  mushrooms,  the  Boleti, 
the  Clavarias,  and  the  Hydnums. 


Clavaria    with 
spores  on  spines 


Section  of  Hydnum,  to  show  teeth 


CHAPTER  IV:   THE  KEY 

WHAT  A   KEY   IS,    AND  WHY   A  NAME   IS   DESIRABLE 

A  KEY  in  the  study  of  botany  is  a  guide  by  which  a  student 
may  trace  a  specimen  until  he  finds  a  name  for  it.  Having  found 
a  name,  he  may  learn  from  books  or  from  friends  what  is  known 
of  its  habits  of  growth,  of  its  value  as  a  food  or  drug,  whether 
it  is  harmful  or  harmless,  whether  it  is  to  be  protected  or 
whether  war  is  to  be  waged  against  it.  He  may  learn  whether 
it  has  figured  in  history  or  the  myths,  and  how  the  poets  and 
artists  viewed  it,  and  may  perhaps  learn  to  see  it  with  their 
eyes.  He  may  watch  similar  specimens  as  they  grow,  and  may 
add  the  results  of  his  observations  to  the  facts  already  recorded 
about  his  specimen. 

HOW   A   KEY   FOR   FUNGI   IS   MADE,    AND   WHY   IT  IS   DESIRABLE 

In  the  first  place,  only  such  plants  are  considered  as  grow 
from  spores  and  have  no  leaf-green.  (The  spore  characteristic  is 
one  the  amateur  must  decide  upon  either  by  seeing  the  spores 
or  by  inferring  their  existence  from  the  fact  that  seeds  do  not 
appear.)  There  are  some  thirty-five  thousand  species  of  fungi 
known  to  botanists,  so  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  find  a 
name  for  a  specimen  if  one  had  to  read  at  random  until  the  right 
description  for  his  specimen  was  found ;  but  since  all  of  these 
plants  may  be  put  in  one  or  another  of  three  groups,  on  account 
of  certain  points  of  resemblance  which  they  have  in  common, 
and  since  these  three  groups  may  each  in  turn  be  divided  and 
subdivided,  one  may,  by  selecting  groups  rather  than  individual 
specimens,  find  a  short  path  to  the  name  desired.  The  three 
primary  groups,  called  classes,  are  made  as  follows  : 

The  first  contains  many  mould-like  fungi  which  resemble 
one  another  in  microscopic  characters. 

The  second  contains  other  mould-like  fungi  and  many  coi* 

15 


The   Key 

spicuous  fungi  which  bear  their  spores  in  transparent  sacs  (see 
first  page  of  Key). 

The  third  contains  all  fungi  which  bear  their  spores  on  en- 
larged cells  called  basidia  (see  first  page  of  Key). 

To  even  partially  understand  the  inconspicuous  fungi  is  a 
task  impossible  to  one  who  is  not  familiar  with  the  use  of  a  com- 
pound microscope.  To  acquire  a  knowledge  sufficiently  accu- 
rate to  identify  nearly  all  of  the  conspicuous  fungi  is  within  the 
power  of  any  intelligent  person,  for  the  two  groups  or  classes 
containing  the  conspicuous  species  may  be  divided,  on  account 
of  easily  distinguished  characters,  into  groups  called  orders. 
The  orders  may  be  divided  into  groups  called  families,  and  the 
families  into  groups  called  genera  (singular  genus),  and  the 
genera  into  individual  specimens  called  species;  and  all  these 
groups  may  be  arranged  in  such  a  way  that  the  series  of  selec- 
tions may  be  quickly  made.  Such  an  arrangement  of  groups  is 
called  a  key. 


10 


Key 


>-  ^ 

W      i 

X    2 


Key 


<u     on 


•i 

JH       VO 


O 

8 

CX 


CO 

I/} 


O 

z 

D 
b. 

O 
< 
W) 
i 

w 
cc 
O 

D. 

cn 

(0 

u 

h 

UJ 

O 
> 

O 
O 
(0 


ho 

is  >, 

e    ^ 

E    o 

<U     ^3 
<U 

' 


CO 


g  « 

"o    c 
o    •— 


CO      X! 

+         6 


T3 
<u 


S. 


18 


Key 


£  bo 

ju  c 

ca  3 

N  U, 

<u  cx 

CL  3 
U 


bo 


<  T?    8 

•|<8 

.    o    « 

||  l| 

"*-       4)       c/J       3 

U      5     <      « 

r*     ^-»  C 


3      «      £      C 
O     f     n     D 

•£  8   S. 
^•o    5S   ° 

j=     <o   >2/  ^j- 

E  i  &1 

"o    o   <_• 


>     bo 
2    £ 


l.fg 
iv-4 


v 

o. 


<U  0) 

a.  jj 

.2  '3. 

^  "2 


S 
•=( 

H 


Key 


§ 
ia 
O 


0>      bO 

£—.       O3 
CL 


>  0) 

13  bO 

*r*  ^3 

Z  a. 


2   ~ 

.tj   2* 

I    & 
>>  «« 

o  Q- 


CO 
CO 


o 
z 

D 
u. 

O 

< 

CO 

I 

w 

cc 

o 

0. 
CO 


-J      CO 

O     u 
o 

o 
o 

(0 


>-i       D 

.2    o, 

3     w 


£X 
..     3 

x:    o 

o    >- 
o    o 

oo    73 

<u 

as      CX 


6 
O 


•£    J=    — 

i        ^      *T^ 

"3     =S    ^3 


a 


•c  c 

?  « 

CX  ~ 

5  c  <u 

c  |«  ex 

O  w  03 

J2  •*  ¥ 


-  _ 

•«—     T3 

^      0) 


73     C 

111 

Q          « 

o     v-     So 


JS     bo 


20 


Key 


I 

a 


21 


Key 


(A 

-o-s- 

C      £      <U 

«     C     bo 


be 
.    c 

c/3      3 

£    tt. 

M  (/) 

S     3 
<u     O 

ii 

^  ^ 
o 


.a 

<L> 
S 


CO 

co 


Q 
00 

CO 

z 
o 
u 
z 
cc 
o 

CO 
(0 

u 
cc 
o 

a 

00 

(0 

Id 

h 
b] 
O 

s 

o 

a 
oo 

< 

OQ 


o 

a, 


<u 

rs 
*> 

•3 


.58" 


§  3 

C       C3 

pa 
W  /— 

L.       C 


<l>     T3 
C       <L) 


«  O 

^.  <U 

X)  o 

C  « 


~     bo 
C 


o 

c 

I 

O 


-§ 


O     - 


••Si  3 


•a  g 

3 


II  •«  C  «> 

n    >  w  S  jc 

GO       "^  4_l  t-4-»  -(— i 

§    E  S  °  ^ 

O     O  J2  u"  •£ 

-  "a.  S  E 

<«->  o>  »- 

C  be  W  O 


^    ^      c      «      »> 

.5    E  .„    tx  -o 

22 


3       - 

z   <*• 


be 


=     S    "S 

2    o    g 
bo 


T3     *-• 

N<*         -^  -» 


.5    £  -S   £ 


Key 


<    ft- 


bo 
c 
•c 

B 

> 
o 
o 


bo 
I 


0. 


c    <u 

ll 

.     3 


Key 


O 

.c 
^ 


p 


.5     ** 


I  § 

.2  u. 

»-.  4-» 

«  00 

1  C 


O 

z 

D 
u. 

X 
O 
D 
O 
a 
w 

(0 

u 


o 

5 
O 

DC 
U 

Sj 
o 


<u 

JS   ^ 

.y  T> 

JG     C 


.  T^   c 


C  *""      -*--*       <— • 

^O     C     ctf 


s   S   cu 

I        -4-J        W 

bD    00     r- 


vp    bo 


o  -S 
S  .o  .2 


J5   a. 


ley 


c 
ci 


CX     bo 


•a    . 

I? 

<5  o 
-O  bo 
o  «« 


3 


3s 

t 


i  js  <o  -a  w 

5    .ti     o     <U    T3 
C     ^     O    v 

c  >  pi  2  cs 

«-•  ^  w  's  *" 

"^  <u    «i 

•- 1=  £  °°  *-• 

**-•    "=S|     <u 

ff  X*T   M  J= 

1  e  i  s  ± 

£3-3  E  £ 


ex 

c« 

0 


.. 

" 


.b  E 


.-   c 

J=    3 


e/j 


g- 


oo"S  ex  c 

"rt    <u    c 

o       E  •£  3 


Key 


1  2 

•£  <o 

oj  bo 

a  £ 


IB 

i* 

(/)    Q^ 


M       - 

|   2 

4=      (U 


T3      3 
<L>      S. 


ol 


i^» 

03 

•*•*      >• 
3      5> 

S     »- 

<U     JJ       <u 

03      J= 


e 


U 

f  °  . 

O       CO  .Si 

V      V  U 

oi  -g  E 

<U  C3 

E  --3 


bo  JL  c  «2 

C      C  D  T3 

.5    «  ^  >- 

"c  j=  £  £ 

4)       O  s_ 

"^*  <y 

5  a)  OS 


03       C 

a.  £    « 
«    rt  •£ 


5  to  be 

«fc  to  §  « 

-  ^  o  .S: 

.S  T5  >.  -o 


— -•    o 
o 

03 


>~>      *        '*•       I        t> 

r  §  "2  S  € 


V      1) 

o    o 

0)     *£ 

tti    *J 

J    5          to 
bo  ^     *-                  .£§ 

u    e         2^    «    o. 
^    g  ^    °    o    u 

«    ,£}    "co     to    TJ     2i 

co 

O 

n  a  more 

CO 

<U 

.2f 
"o3 

T3 

CO 

co 

rt 

E 

^o 
1 

1        i 

C     bD 

*i     C 

52    rt 

1       1 

^3  dj 

'S  s 

elevated 

K1 

bo 

On 

o 

^^ 

~"  -— 

re  _Q 

.£2 

U 

T3 

iS 

CO 

?! 

V 

c 

0 

X- 

M 
CO 

jy 
O 

4-> 

C 

o 

03 
^ 

"oS       «> 

co 

CO     "^ 

<U  ^ 

r5  3 

•4-1 

3 

*-> 

C 

R 
0 

C 
OS 
CU 

V 

0 

§, 

B 

d 


0 
bO 


s    . 

I! 

ex 
o    o 


Key 


<ZL 


O      0) 


o    o 


c    c 
o  .2 

.o  t: 


o 


M 


0 


bO    « 

c   ^ 

'5b  w  t3 

S    °  _e 

OS  ^ 

^*         rS  Cj 

<L>  (U 

rs     CX  C 

<l>       C3  J- 

•^s.  " 

>  « -g 


C    J= 

•o    *" 


I  8  §  * 

C3      pC       /ji 

ss  t:   ^   SL 


o 


•—*  ^M 

3j     <n     <u 
^    J=     fX 


j 


1 


U  -^ 

—  T> 

U  (U 

cs  o 


CX  ~ 

V  C3 

U  "•" 

0  „ 

cxi  "S 

=  a 


£    T3 
<u 


o    o 

CX    C 

00       V 


CX 
<u 
o 


Key 


O     bfi 

OQ      03 

flu 


bo 


c   . 
E  » 


bD 

'£ 
V 


c    C 
E    c 


bD 

C 


"-      C 


bo 


<u     c 

£  '§ 
£>  8. 


o 
2t 


£      <D 

11 

ft!  2 

c 


E      3 

I  I 

'C     <u 


Key 


o  ^t- 

T3  M 

i-  — 
D 

O.  <U 

O  bD 

U  03 

>>  cu 


>     bo 

O      03 
CO    QU 


- 

E      "N 

o    — 


£  g 

o 


<u 
J^    T3 


•O 


C    O  C 

cx,  M 

°  -c  2i 

i  f**^ 

3      O  x-s 

'•3    E  ^ 

'C    •—  os 

£   5  £ 

'a  5 


3 

O 


wT  -2  ^ 

3  ^  S 

o  aj  G 

C  CX  oS 

13  O.  "£. 

8|  f{  O 

«  .22  .  " 

bD  T3  •— 


1 


c    *e 


Key 


<U  oo 

rrt  ^^ 

"g  & 

^>  C3 


«  * 

<U  I 

y  <•» 

PS  fTv 

0  ^ 


<   Q- 


o. 

e« 

CO 


•§ 


.Si,   to 


I  s 

o    o 


c  s  <u    — 

•c  I  ;o    8 

S  £  '>    T3 

XI  O  O      c 

I  C  v-      w 

<u  a.  ex 


o 
ex. 


0 
30 


3     - 

CO     "— ' 


•p 


Key 


J-i          V 

O     bo 


tt  *^ 

o  •**" 
u 

ra  cf 

3k— •  __fc. 

o  ~ 

Ou  co 

t  §> 

CL  0. 


i 

1 

£• 


4 

i 


i 


x> 

3 


<u    o  .2  ° 

v-  5  f( 

®      4)  1   '  >- 

Ou    C  —  g 

x\         ^— '  ^^ 

O  r-t  t. 


i-      O 

o    c 

x; 


<L» 

bo 


u 

2 

CQ 


Key 


<u 
be 


bO 
o3 


3 
JO 

"o 
o 

0) 

•*-• 

1 


oo 

00 


rrsOO 


-T 
r*^  ^N  0s*  w1^ 
rr\00  ^00 


oo  oo   o 

W     00     00     V5      t/J 

<U      <!}      Q->      QJ      QJ 

bo  bo  bo  bo  bo 

£  oududu  flu 


2'  .c 
.22 


•  c  3 

>  °- 

|   1  o 

i  -0  c 

«  _e  ^ 

W    "Tf,  ^ 


o   o   ^ 

•-  >,5 

Is' 

oo     oo 


o   o   o   o   o 

CX   D.   D.   O.   O. 

oo  oo  oo  oo  oo 


S    — 
ft 


00 


4. 


ITS 

bo 


(U 

bo 

T3 


E   '33 
o 


•I  9 


O  01 

<->  > 

<u  > 

E  E 

•4->  •»— • 

oo  oo 


3     ^i 


<u     3 

q=    d. 


CL     bO 
3 


c 

^  bo  ^ 

>%  ~~  *-• 

T3  C  .00 

O  'r*  'oo 

o  >  i~ 

>.  -~  <u 

£  >  O. 


Key 


£ 

V) 

.2    "^ 

-4 

j3 

.   ^ 

•*    ^O 
c3     bo 

w    vo 

c     ^ 

C3       bX) 

f  & 

O      cy 

'i5^ 

u.      bD 

If 

.N     Q, 

£  ~  c 

c«      D. 

-1    £    a. 

t?            <U       OJ 

2     1  1  1  1 

11 

£ 

01 

_J 

<u 
ex, 

•c 

^                00       U 

rt^>           c^CX__^          w           > 

w 

U 

£    -J  ! 

£  — 

bb 

i>    2 

.£ 

bD 


ex, 
<l> 

•a 

« 


•o 
<u 


c 

cs 
JC 
U 


H 

a 


a. 

•4 


G'-ntis 


« 


"  '? 

s 


33 


Key 


& 

6    8? 
<   a- 


bo 


~  to 
£  u 


O  bl 

2  w 

gg 

s* 


& 


•"   Q. 

E  3 

<L>      .^ 
tfl     <y 

!! 

<D     C 

I  fi    SK 

4)    j^> 

O)    <J-      ^ 
TO      Q      O 

13      W3      ^ 

E  -2  =" 

CTj       ^J       0$ 

-J     C     3 
*          S     3 


JS  § 


oo 

*3 

C 

•o 

c 

cs 


O 

c 

3  J 

C 

«  c 
"o 


OL 


34 


Key 


OS        • 
S   00 

05    VO 

•e  « 


=    bo 

O     w 
U  0. 


CX   o 

o   bo 


«< 

E  « 

o  ^ 

*O  4) 

jz  bo 

u  « 

•C  0, 

H 


c  "^ 

0) 

U  4) 

>,  bo 


2 

3 


2 

3«, 

O,    O 

a  T«> 


00 


*i 


«      T-1 

|1 

•»-•        *• 

'5  3 
1 1 

00   ^ 
"*J.        *3 


\ 

1  s 

* 


C        > 

C     (4 


<u    o    3 

^    °"§ 
(4    O 

O    O 


<L> 

0) 

-t— > 

co 


C   ^ 

•=  v. 

oo  0 

§  *> 

^4  *—  t 

.S  o 

bO  P 


S  3 
3  § 

J3     ?8 


C     <U   'C 
4)     E    to 


•— •  >c< 


*S5 

I 

1 
« 


>•< 


•a 


C    « 
.-    bo 

^    o 


(»<J 
2 


bo  C 
c  •& 

**3    C 
C    « 


>    3 


35 


Key 


(U 

bo 


•        bo 
>    ^ 


CO 

J 


O 

z 

D 
b. 

S-' 

* 

U 
O 

< 

o 

E 

o 
< 


"o 


CO 

u 

E 
u 

CO 

Q 
U 

cc 

o 

0. 
CO 


V) 

ft 

-G 
« 

•c 

J5 
3 

c 
c 

< 


i 


c 
9 

i 

B. 

J5    bb 
«J 


bo 
C 


Key 


w  /v? 

E  §8 

.2  4> 

O  bo 


o 
r=r   oo 

D,    <u 

.§  SP 
a  a- 


.2  §8 


o 
u 

tu 


<u 

bo 


M 

<u 
q= 

a> 


•a 

c 


o 
•«-> 
^ 
£ 


l 


i 


1 


o 

I 


37 


Key 


GENERA 


'i  * 

•s  & 

i— t  W 

O  CU 


•^      C 

S 


C         - 
3      g     -*-• 

1  8I 

C      •-    «« 

<  ."2  *g 

O     <u 
C     CX 


4)      CX 

E    .--a' 

1       a)     °C 


J=      0 

o 


O    -A 


M 


«-  <u 

C  £ 

^       4>  i_ 

o   <S  « 

C      °  "O 


to      z;  <-• 

-2   I  *-"  .£ 

~-»     — ^      C 


<J     C 

to      v 

fill 

C     <u     cc     C 


(0 

u 

cc 
u 

0) 

Q 

u 
cc 

o 

a 

(0 
I 

z 

O 

cc 


(0 

J 

O 

I 

h 


O 
O 

E 
< 
o 


«° 

O      4) 

.ts    to 


-Q 
O 

2 

E 
o 


v 

C 
o 

CX 


u 
CX 


bo 


t/J 
• 

,£> 


<u 


K«7 


S?     bo 

bo    ca 
<   Q. 


O. 


y  oo 

03 

</)  V 

O  bo 


.a   oo 


• 


a  ii 


f 

cn 


<u 

E 

OS 


E  S 


5  £2  £• 

•S  I  £ 

S  'S.  c 

OS  <U  " 

f!  •*-• 

bo  *2  c 

C  u-  <u 


E  *> 

f  i 

'«  <o 

>  € 


o.  2 

s- s 

E 

+_.     c 

* 


**> 


*^  2 
•2    o    o 


<u 

I 


Kej 


CX 

o 


bo 


CO 

32 
!£ 
ex 

o 
O 


ft 

O)          <U 


•o  -S 
U  -a 


9   O  M 

E<u   c 
o  — 


o 


•c-5 

•^    3 


•-'••• 


°-  - 


3      "S  *n     a 


c   «     o 

*— i  ^-s. 


<u   c 
E  w 


—  T3 

<u  -t; 


2:  to 

t  2 

3  C*< 

o  C/5 

g 

T3 


w  T-  bO 

S  «  C 

0>  U  '^ 

I  S  S 


Key 


T3 
T3 
00 


•3 

P-. 


W 

3 

*u 
0 
Q, 

C/0 

3. 

1 
•*-> 

I 

?  o 

••-^    O     C 

u   c 

qj                       c 

s           J 
a.          3 

bC 

rt 

, 

4) 

1 

, 

, 

.S 

O 

•t—  ' 

E 

3 

U 

-ii 

"J£ 

<u 

to 

°oo 
0 

U 

t3 

<u 

0 

CS 
4-* 

<u 

E 

'5. 
o 

£ 

M 

c 

rt 

e/T 
<u 
c 

"cl 

3 

| 

13 

rt 

•«-> 

dj 

OjJ 

3 

ii 

« 

C 

V. 

£ 

c 

'5. 

*P 

c 

£ 

j= 
+-I 
<u 
<u 

•«-• 

'5u 

3 

C/l 

O 
C 

w 

0 
0. 

n 

ID 

> 

CA 

V 

Iti 

?t 

V- 
0 

>- 

J5 

» 

O 

u 

ia 

-Ss 

41 


Key 


M 

A 

*    d 

.< 

O 

M 

3     Jjj 

e£ 

"55    "*                                                      3    •• 

• 

£ 

V 

EX         qv 

s 

es 

bo                                                  . 

^         ^ 

H 

Cu                                                e 

2  £ 

3 

o 

i 

^ 

^ 

S 

5            J 

£ 
u 
oc 

.52 
1 

(MlfiRJ    '^ 

•  ^B 
O                                                          XK3? 
«t=                                                          ^i 

^ 

o 

bo 

ggjgr 

0. 

^2 

00 

^f 

X 

2 

• 

h 

H, 

CX 

i 

(/I 

ORACEJG  (FUNGI 

2 

Substance  of 

1 

i_ 
-t-j 

u 

V 

x: 

i    «5                            *o    i    i 

V                                                 TJ      C 
0                                          «              « 
bO    CX                                     u     |     C 

C       W                                                      I       C 

"•*    ^                                       2             ^ 

1  i          I  M 

1        W5       C 

4>       1)       C         . 

"S  s  £  8- 

£J     CX  «^.     «j 
c     «     *-     « 
S    €     C    ^ 

^3      C      ^*      o 
P      <L)      0> 

^  ^  13  *5 

a 

4> 

JI 

73 

j 

"3 

* 

C 

O 

c 

• 

M 

D. 

1 

c 

3 

• 

~ 

.« 

M 

O 

1-,        U. 

^* 

E 

^* 

•—  —  • 

i 

£ 

T3 

bO    3 
bo 

* 

OS 

—      rt 

be 

.~ 

- 

_c 

"C 

X 

o 

8 

> 

4) 

,2 

M 

3      ^ 

<u 

C 

ti              ^ 

O 

ex 
in 

o 
o 

11 

c/1      O 

X 

s 

1    1 

Key 


U. 


« 
bO 


$  = 

01 

T3  <u 

tt  bo 


00  "    » 

£  ~ 
'I    « 

£     bo 

i        ^3 

-1  a. 


c 
E  — 

2  *  "i 
^  s  § 

a  gp 


3  •£  o  ti 

WrO  C  '5 

rt  ~  C 

3    —  «  W 


03      qj      >~> 


*      I       1- 
O      O      O 

&     *°     B?        • 

c3       C3      i— i      g 

~  s  °  = 
8-lli 

o    bo  M  73 

1°"  §  «"  ! 

I       ^    c  .52 


I 


43 


Ke7 


v 
bo 

u.   £ 


00 


3 


O     bo 

QQ      W 

£ 


* 


0>  3  3 

Wi  *"*  O 

O  i*«  .- 

Cu  O  C 


T3  jy 
c3  O 
S.  *u 


C    ^ 
«     S 

u    «s 


o  i^  o 

,  c  '£ 

—f  c  c 

2  o  4> 

«5  M  W 


«  * 

-  S 

O 

cu  .5 


cr    c/> 


x:    c 

•M      rs 


S  » 
O  « 
«-•-* 
<*-  Cu 


Key 


00        *A 

g 

3      O 

^» 

c     — 

"SI 

1    & 

1 

O       cj 

^J 

CQ         OH 

2 

C/5 

O    <U 

S  | 

e  8                i 

^  a             * 

O    oo 

E  -^ 

'£    ^                                     To 
3    .^                                    1 

f-«      y*      C/3 

00     4>                                                 •? 

'rf  1  1 

§  S                     "B 

<0     *"   =3 

0.    *->                                                             OT 

fe   boT3 
S..S    ^ 

.^   0 

>..2   o 

"§0         ^2 

US   X) 
^    «    C                c 

3    oo  ^oo                                 w 

•Ss        ife 

H    4>    u                                 9 

s  2 

m  JS                                53 

*" 

3 

1        1       D 

Sf^    ^~| 

_c    P                                                                                         18 

««  '  >  2                                                                       ^ 

o   bo        g                                                                                       g 

<     S  3  U 

40 


CHAPTER  V:  FUNGI  WITH  GILLS 

GENUS  AMANITA 

(Also  called  Venenarius.) 

THE  fungi  with  gills  all  have  this  characteristic  in  common— 
that  they  bear  their  spores  on  radiating  plates  or  lamellae.  Their 
family  name,  Agaricacece,  is  derived  from  a  typical  member  of  the 
family,  Agaricus  campestris.  The  family  is  the  largest  and  most 
widely  distributed  of  all  the  families,  and  contains  some  five 
thousand  described  species,  which  are  placed  in  groups  or  genera, 
more  or  less  large,  based  on  such  characters  as  the  colour  of  the 
spores;  the  position  and  shape  of  the  lamellae;  the  colour  and 
texture,  as  well  as  the  shape,  odour,  taste,  and  appendages  of  the 
cap  and  stem. 

The  colour  of  the  spores  is  one  of  the  most  important  char- 
acteristics, as  the  decision  as  to  whether  the  plant  is  wholesome 
or  not  often  rests  upon  it.  The  colour  may  be  determined  by 
placing  the  cap,  with  spore  surface  down,  on  a  sheet  of  white  or 
black  paper,  and  leaving  it  for  a  time  under  an  inverted  glass,  so 
as  to  cut  off  all  drafts  which  may  blow  the  spores  away.  A  print 
of  the  radiating  gills  will  then  be  made  in  the  colour  of  the  spores — 
white,  pink,  rusty  brown,  or  black. 

For  external  characters  of  the  stem,  one  must  be  careful  to 
get  the  entire  stem  from  the  ground ;  for  a  most  important  char- 
acteristic, the  volva,  if  present,  will  be  found  at  the  base.  The 
volva  may  be  membranous  and  attached  to  the  base,  excepting 
at  the  rim,  or  membranous  and  loose,  or  present  only  in  the  form 
of  rings  of  scales  at  the  base,  with  perhaps  traces  on  the  surface 
qf  the  cap. 

The  surface  of  the  stem  may  be  smooth  or  rusty  or  mealy 
white.  It  may  or  may  not  have  near  the  cap  a  ring  of  the 
membrane  which  covered  the  gills  of  the  young  plant. 

The  character  of  the  lamellae  and  the  internal  characters  of 
the  stem  may  best  be  determined  by  cutting  the  cap  and  stem 
from  top  to  base  with  a  sharp  knife,  for  then  it  may  be  seen 
whether  the  gills  are  free  from  the  stem  or  attached  to  it,  or 

46 


DEATH    CUP.     DESTROYING   ANGEL 

(Atttaniia  phalloides^  Fries) 
Reduced.    Nat.  size:  Cap,  3^  inches:  stem.  7!^  inch' 


z      g 


White-spored  Series 


Veil 


whether  they  grow  down  on  the  stem ;  and  whether  the  stem  is 
hollow,  solid,  or  filled  with  web-like  mycelium,  and  whether  it  is 
fleshy  or  has  a  tough  and  hard  rind.  The  lamellae  may  be  of 
different  or  of  equal  lengths,  and  their  edges  may  be  entire  or 
toothed  or  thin  or  blunt. 

To  know  a  genus  of  the  gill-bearing  fungi,  one  must  know 
the  cap,  gills,  stem,  and  habit  of  growth  which  characterise  that 
genus. 

A  very  young  plant  of  the  genus  Amanita  is  enveloped  in  a 
membranous  wrapper.  The  relation  of  the  young  plant  to  the 
wrapper  will  readily  be  understood  by  cutting 
a  young  plant  through  its  length. 

As  the  plant  grows,  the  wrapper  is  ruptured, 
a  part  is  left  at  the  base 
to  form  a  cup  or  sheath, 
or  a  part  maybe  carried 
up  on  the  cap,  to  ap- 
pear in  small  patches. 

The  cap  is,   as  a 
rule,  regular  and 
broadly  convex.      It  may  be  almost 
flat  when   mature.     The  stem  has  a 
conspicuous  collar  and  the  gills  are 
free  from  the  stem. 
No  less  than  twelve  species  of  Amanita  are  dangerous  or 
suspected.    Some  are  the  most  poison-  Patches 
ous  of  fungi,  while  others  are  most 
highly  esteemed  for  the  table.    Since  Free 
the    most    dan- 
gerous     species 
belong    to    this 
genus,  it  would 
be  better  for  the 
amateur  not  to 
eat  of  specimens 
which  have  stalks 
with  a  swollen  base  surrounded  by  a  cup- 
like  or  scaly  envelope,  especially  if  the  gills  are  white.     In  gath- 
ering  all   white-gilled   species,    care   should   be   taken   to   get 

X-man'-l-t* 
47 


Wrapper. 


Section  of  young  plant  in 
wrapper 


Young  plant  in 
wrapper 


Cap 


Stem 


..Volra 


Wrapper  raptured 


A.  muscaria    (See  Plate  III.) 


Fungi  with  Gills 

below  the  base  of  the  stalk  ;  for  it  often  happens  that  the  bulb 
is  broken  off  and  left  behind,  and  thus  the  principal  charac- 
teristic lost  which  would  mark  it  as  a  specimen  not  to  be 
eaten. 

Death  Cup;  Poison  Amanita  (Poisonous) 

Amanita  phalloides  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  46) 

Cap  or  Pileus — White  or  greenish  or  greyish  brown;  smooth, 
no  striations;  width,  3-5  inches. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Ring  present.  Abruptly  bulbous  at  the  base  ; 
bulb  margined  by  the  wrapper  remains.  White  in  white- 
cap  forms,  tinged  with  a  paler  shade  than  the  cap  in  brown- 
cap  forms.  Pithy  when  young,  hollow  when  old.  3-6 
inches  long. 

Veil — White  in  white-cap  forms,  tinged  with  brown  in  brown- 
cap  forms. 

Gills  or  Lamella — White,  free  from  the  stem,  rounded  at  the 
stem  end,  rather  broad. 

Spores — Globose  and  white. 

Flesh— White. 

Ti 'me— July  to  October. 

Habitat — Woods,  groves,  open  places,  and  pastures. 

The  poisonous  principle  of  the  death  cup  is  known  as  phal- 
lin,  one  of  the  tox-albumins,  the  poisons  found  in  rattlesnakes 
and  other  venomous  animals,  and  the  poisons  which  produce 
death  in  cholera  and  diphtheria. 

The  phallin  acts  directly  upon  the  blood  corpuscles,  dissolv- 
ing these,  so  that  the  serum  of  the  blood  escapes  from  the  blood- 
vessels into  the  alimentary  canal  and  drains  the  whole  system  of 
its  vitality.  There  is  no  known  antidote  by  which  the  effects  of 
phallin  may  be  counteracted.  If  one  has  eaten  of  the  Amanita 
phalloides,  the  only  chance  of  saving  life  is  to  remove  the  undi- 
gested parts  from  the  alimentary  canal  by  stomach-pump  and 
oil  purgatives ;  then,  if  the  amount  of  phallin  absorbed  into  the 
system  is  not  too  great,  the  remainder  may  wear  itself  out  on 
the  blood  and  the  patient  may  recover. 

The  amount  of  the  fungus  which  is  necessary  to  produce 
death  is  small;  some  think  that  even  the  handling  of  poisonous 
specimens  and  the  breathing  in  of  their  spores  may  be  somewhat 
injurious. 

48 


White-spored  Series 

Fly  Amanita  (Poisonous)    ' 

Amanita  muscaria  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  50) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Orange  red  to  pale  yellow  or  almost  white.  The 
young  plants  are  brighter,  and  fade  from  the  margin  inward 
as  the  plant  matures.  Floccose  scales,  the  wrapper  remains, 
are  scattered  on  the  cap.  The  margin  is  often  striate.  3-6 
inches  broad. 

Stem  or  Stipe — White  or  slightly  tinged  with  yellow.  Pithy  or 
hollow.  Base  not  broad  and  abrupt,  but  ovate,  covered 
with  the  scaly  margins  of  the  wrapper.  4-6  inches  long. 

Veil  and  Ring  or  Annulus — The  veil  covers  the  gills  of  the  young 
plant,  and  later  is  seen  as  a  collar-like  ring  on  the  stem. 

Gills  or  Lamellae — White  or  slightly  tinged  with  yellow.  Various 
in  length  ;  short  ones  terminating  in  length  with  almost 
vertical  abruptness. 

Spores — White,  broadly  elliptical. 

Flesh — White,  tinged  with  yellow  under  the  epidermis. 

Habitat—  Along  roadsides,  on  borders  of  fields,  in  groves  of  conif- 
erous trees.  It  prefers  poor  soil,  gravelly  or  scanty.  It 
grows  singly,  not  in  groups. 

Time — June  until  freezing  weather. 

Young  Plant — This  is  at  first  egg-like,  then  dumb-bell  shaped. 
As  the  parts  within  expand,  the  wrapper  breaks  up  into 
scales,  so  that  the  convex,  unexpanded  cap  is  densely  covered 
with  more  or  less  concentric  fragments  of  the  wrapper,  and 
the  bulbous  stem  is  covered  with  rings  of  f ringy  scales.  As 
the  stem  expands,  these  scales  are  left  on  the  bulbous  base, 
while  the  fragments  on  the  cap  are  more  widely  separated 
by  the  growth  of  the  cap. 

The  fly  amanita  is  a  very  conspicuous  and  handsome  species. 
There  are  conflicting  statements  concerning  the  properties  of 
this  fungus;  some  claim  that  it  is  edible,  and  yet  it  is  known 
to  have  caused  much  sickness  and  many  deaths.  It  caused 
the  death  of  the  Czar  Alexis  of  Russia,  and  of  the  Count  de 
Vecchi  in  Washington.  It  is  said  that  it  is  cooked  and  eaten 
by  the  Russians,  and  still  it  is  on  record  that  several  French 
soldiers  ate  of  it  in  Russia  and  became  very  ill. 

The  Siberians  steep  dried  specimens  of  the  fly  amanita  in 
whortleberry  juice,  and  thus  make  a  drink  which  produces  an 
intoxication  similar  to  that  produced  by  the  "haschisch"  and 
"majoon"  of  the  East. 

Mtis-ca'-rf-& 
3  49 


Fungi  with  Gills 

There  is  something  about  it  particularly  attractive  to  flies, 
and  yet  for  them  to  sip  its  juices  means  death,  as  may  be  seen 
by  the  circle  of  dead  flies  lying  on  the  ground  under  the  shadow 
of  its  cap. 

The  chief  poison  of  this  fungus  is  an  alkaloid  called  musca- 
rine,  which  paralyzes  the  nerves  controlling  the  action  of  the 
heart.  Injections  of  atropine  in  doses  of  from  one  one-hundredth 
to  one-fiftieth  of  a  grain  are  employed  as  an  antidote  for  this 
poison.  In  addition,  the  most  powerful  emetics  are  used. 


Cap  striate,  and  free  from 
warts 


Orange  Amanita  (Edible) 

Amanita  Ccesarea  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  47) 

Cap  or  Pikus — Smooth,  glabrous,  and  free  from  warts  or  scales. 
Red  or  orange,  fading  to  yellow  on  the  margin  or  all 
over  the  cap.  Margin  distinctly  striate.  When  fully  ex- 
panded, nearly  flat.  When  moist, 
sticky;  2^  to  5  inches. 
Stem—  Yellow.  When  young,  fibrous 
or  cottony  within,  later  hollow; 
3-5  inches. 

Wrapper  or  Volva — White  and  mem- 
branous, loosely    sheathing   the 
base  of  the  stem. 
Veil — Covers  the  gills  of  the  young  plant.     Remains  are  seen 
on  the  stem  only,  where  it  hangs  down 
like  a  white  ruffle. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Rounded  at  the  stem  end  and 
not  attached  to  the  stem.     Yellow,   an 

exception  to  the 
rule  that  the  col- 
pur  of  the  gills 
in  mature  plants 
resembles  the 
colour  of  the 
spores. 

Young   Plant — When 
young,   the   cap 

and  stem  are  contained  in  a  wrap- 
per not  unlike  a  hen's  egg  in 
shape,  size,  and  colour.  As  the 

cap  and  stem  within  develop,  the  wrapper  ruptures  in  its 
upper  part,  the  stem  elongates,  and  the  cap  is  carried  up, 

C£'-si-re-a 


Section  of  A.  Caesarea 


(«)  Smooth  cap    (c)  Hollow  stem 
(*)  Free  gills       (r)  Ruffle-like  ring 


Young  plant 


Sheathed  Amanitopsis  (edible). 

(Amanitopsis  vaginata,  Roze), 

Cap,  2-4  inches;  stem,  3-5  inches 


White-spored  Series 

while  the  remains  of  the  wrapper  are  left  at  the  base  of 
the  stem,  an  open  sac. 

Spores — White,  elliptical. 

Flesh — White  stained  with  yellow  under  the  separable  epidermis 
and  next  the  line  of  attachment  of  the  gills. 

Taste — Mild  and  pleasant. 

Habitat—  Thin  woods,  preferably  pine  woods  and  sandy  soil. 
Abundant  in  southern  Europe,  common  in  the  Southern 
States,  and  occasionally  found  in  New  York  and  Massa- 
chusetts. 

Ztme—]u\y,  August,  September. 

The  Amanita  Ccesarea  is  one  of  the  handsomest  species. 
The  Greeks  and  Romans  esteemed  it  as  an  article  of  food.  The 
names,  "Food  of  the  gods,"  "Cibus  Deorum,"  "  Imperial  mush- 
room," "Caesar's  mushroom,"  and  " Kaiserling,"  suggest  the 
esteem  in  which  it  was  held. 


Fungi  with  Gills 


i 

^^ 

1 

0> 

j§ 

c 

0 

tj 

^ 

gl^ 

v*&  C 

t/l  x-N 

o  ^ 

g, 

as 

0^ 

^  Q  "^ 

J3  "•*-* 
_J   to 

1/5 

(8 

'5  '•' 

o    3 

ns  ^ 

il!     1       s 

o£ 

O) 

— 

rt 

1 

^5  o 

&  -^      1 

"to 

So 

O 

SVIINVV 

SUVQ) 

B^IUBUiy 

co  3 
2  *-» 

ft 
P 

•^"•^     -^ 

CX  *"    <o               O                   O 
3    r"\  g                ,.                  .»- 

O  "-  *     *i                    **                       t|-1 

o  o  |        3           ^ 

-1"    ^     "t 

^        ^i 

£^     *O    "^4                      §*                          .^ 

^           ^       o 

(Authorities  difTe 
ous  character 

pecies  are  poisonous-^ 

•=1 

fe  ^2 

£ 

£ 

"53 

<u 

^ 

-2  53 

•*-> 

D 

i^*» 

~v 

•^ 

M 

.^ 

£ 

2 

>.  ^ 

*s 

0) 

i^\ 

h 

j 

<S 

*^  s 

0/5 

•*-• 

•C! 

u 

1 

^ 

V 

^ 

IS 

"d 

>* 
w 

UJ 
Qt 
X 

U- 

0 

§ 

Amanita  musce 
(Poisonous) 

dp  or  Pileus  —  Orange 
adorned  with  floca 

consisting  of  patcl 
ruptured  volva. 

u 

1/5      ^T 

p3  "3 

0     Q                    ^ 
0      v,                     'J 

Zs»            >~ 
£ 

*  3                    ! 
^   ^ 

f 
S 

iJ                    (U 

-t                        a_j 

•^                                    «^M 

-i                                        ^ 

!  1 

I 

I 

>, 

CTJ 
<4-> 
0 

(/> 

CJ 
4-> 

1 
1 

co 

O 

^                         0 

o          0 

'I 

< 

<*_!         •   ~ 

i-> 

0- 

o  "5 

O    CX 

§ 

S 

o 

&i 

Is  S 

<*- 

'5 

U 

M 

c  £ 

|ns 

S 

§* 

S 

o 

«*• 

• 

E 

£  | 

+j  «§ 

§ 

If 

•c?13 

CQ    >i 

, 

ill   i 

r 

-         ^ 

f 

.53 

B  .  c  "|      ^ 

o 

C      N^X 

tx*    *^ 

..-2                                                     K 

^ 

"S 

i 

§    rv 

XJ    cT  'S        a 

J                       (L) 

> 

| 

g  >;        £  S  «    £       5  d 

••I    ^-T*                                      (/5      <»            UH                     U-      f 

'<I- 

D    *^ 

«L  s 

«  J3    § 

•a*** 

= 

4-> 

1 

o 

Q                                                  *^3 

^               ^o          0 

CO 

White-spored  Series 


GENUS  CANTHARELLUS 

The  members  of  the  genus  Cantharellus  differ  from  all  other 
gill-bearing  fungi  in  that  the  gills  are  in  the  form  of  shallow  folds 
growing  down  the  stem.  The  folds  are  generally  narrow  and 
forked  or  branching.  The  name  Cantharellus,  meaning  little 
cup  or  goblet,  refers  to  the  shape  of  the  fungus,  some  of  the 
species  being  so  deeply  depressed  that  a  cup  not  unlike  a  tall 
goblet  results. 

Cantharellus  floccosus  (Edible) 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  138) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Funnel  form  or  trumpet 
shaped,  depressed  even  into  the 
stem.  The  surface  of  the  depression 
is  woolly  or  scaly.  The  scales  some- 
times persist  and  sometimes  dis- 
appear. Reddish  yellow,  fading  to 
yellow. 

GUIs  or  Lamella — Blunt,  narrow,  close; 
forked  branched  so  as  to  appear  as  a 
network.  Yellow  to  yellow  brown. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Short,  smooth,  or  hairy. 
Sometimes  extending  like  a  root 
among  fallen  leaves. 

Spores— White. 

Flesh— White,  thin. 

Time — July  to  September. 

Habitat — In  groups  in  woods.  The 
specimen  pictured  was  found  grow- 
ing in  moss  by  a  stream  among 
laurels  and  rhododendrons.  Section  of  c.  floccosus 


GENUS  AMANITOPSIS 

The  genus  Amanitopsis  has  white  spores,  the  gills  free  from 
the  stem,  and  at  the  base  of  the  stem  a  volva,  the  remains  of  the 
wrapper  which  enclosed  the  young  plant.  There  is  no  annulus 
or  ring  on  the  stem,  a  feature  which  separates  the  genus  Amani- 
topsis  from  the  genus  Amanita.  This  ring  is  easily  lost,  however. 
Amanitopsis  is  dangerous  to  beginners,  because  an  Amanita  may 
so  easily  be  mistaken  for  it. 

53 


Fungi  with  Gills 


The  Sheathed  Amanitopsis  (Edible) 

Amanitopsis  vaginata  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  51) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Variable  in  colour,  ranging  from  white  to  reddish 
brown.  Thin,  fragile,  smooth ;  or,  when  young,  with  a  few 
fragments  of  the  wrapper  adhering  to  its  surface.  Margin 

distinctly  and 
deeply  striated. 
2-4  inches  broad. 

Stem  or  Stipe— Hol- 
low or  stuffed ; 
smooth,  or 
sprinkled  with 
minute  mealy 
particles  or  woolly 
scales.  Not  bul- 
bous at  the  base. 
3-5  inches  long. 

Spores— White. 

Ring  or  Annulus  — 
None. 

Wrapper  or  Volvo. — 
Soft,  flabby, 
white,  adhering 
slightly  to  the 
base. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Free 
from  the  stem. 
White  or  whitish, 
close,  irregular. 

Flesh— White,  or 
s  ometimes 
stained  under  the 
easily  separating 
skin. 

Section  of  A.  vaginata  Time  —  June    to     Oc- 

tober. 

Habitat — In  woods  or  open  places,  in  damp  vegetable  mould, 
widely  distributed.  Specimen  pictured  was  found  growing 
in  mountains  of  New  Jersey. 

A.  vaginata,  var.  alba,  has  the  whole  plant  white. 
A.  vaginata,  var.  fulva,  has  the  cap  tawny  yellow. 
A.  vaginata,  var.  livida,  has  the  cap  leaden  brown,  and  gills 
and  stem  tinged  with  smoky  brown. 

Vag-fa-a'-ta  Ffilv'-i  LXv'-l-da 

54 


STRANGLED  AMANITOPSIS  (EDIBLE) 

(Jmanitopsis  strangulata,    (Fr.).   Roze) 

Cap  greyish  brown;    wrapper  fragments  dark  brown.    See  Genus,    o.  53 


HELMET     MYCENA    (EDIBLE) 

(Mycena  galericulata,  Scop.) 
Cap  greyish;  gills  white;  stems  firm,  hollow,  hairy  at  the  base.    See  p.  55 


White-spored  Series 


Amanitopsis  parciVOlvata  (SEE  FRONTWPBCI) 

Cap  or  Fileus — Convex,  then  expanded  ;  smooth,  free  from  warts. 

Colour  brilliant  orange  red  over 

the  whole  cap;  not  yellow  on 

the   margin,   not  fading  with 

age.      Uniform   in    colour    in 

young     and     old    specimens. 

Margin  with  striations  deep  and  long. 
Gills  or  Lamella — Lemon  yellow,  free  from 

stem,  and  rounded  at  the  outer  extremity. 
Stem— Slightly  tapering  toward  the  cap ;  hol- 
low.   Clear  lemon  yellow,  covered  with 

meal-like  particles. 

Ring  or  Veil—None'm  old  or  young  specimens. 
Volva — Present;  not  large  and  loose.   White; 

clinging  closely  to  the  stem  in  the  form 

of  scales. 
Spores— White. 
Flesh — Unpleasant  raw  odour.  White,  stained 

with  orange  red  immediately  under  the 

skin. 
Habitat—  Mixed  woods.    New  Jersey,  North 

Carolina. 
Time— July. 


(J 


The  caps  of  the  specimens  found         Section  of  A. 
in  North  Carolina  varied  in  colour  from    parciroivata  (reduced) 
almost  white  to  white  with  a  red  centre,  and  from  orange  or 
shades  of  orange  to  brilliant  red. 

GENUS  MYCENA 

The  members  of  this  genus  have  white  spores  ;  no  volva  nor 
annulus  ;  lamellae  thin,  with  acute  edges  ;  gills  with  a  little  bay 
cut  out  near  the  stem,  sinuate,  and  the  stem  with  a  cartilaginous 
rind.  Cap  membranous  and  striate  on  the  margin — that  is,  with 
depressed  parallel  lines. 

Mycena  haematopoda  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PACE  90) 

Cap  or  PiUus — Bell-shaped  ;    reddish  brown,   deeper  shade  on 

margin. 
Gills  or  Lamella — Paler  tint  of  colour  of  cap  ;  adnate. 

Pir'-c^-vSl-va'-tS  My-ce'-na  Hem'-a-top'-8-dI 

55 


Fungi  with  Gills 


Stem  or  Stipe — Colour  of  cap  ;  hollow  ;  a  mere  tube,  with  thin 
walls.  When  cut  quickly,  it  changes  to  a  deep  red  brown 
and  exudes  a  purple  juice.  Flexible,  fragile. 

Spores—  White. 

Ring  or  Annulus — None. 

Time — September. 

Habitat—  Decayed  wood  in  forest. 

GENUS   LENTINUS 

The  genus  Lentinus  has  white  spores,  no  annulus,  and  no 
volva.  The  stem  is  central  or  lateral,  and  the  lamellae  are  nor- 
mally toothed  on  their  margins.  The  species  are  leathery,  fleshy, 
and  tough  ;  will  stand  drying,  and  revive  when  moist. 

Lentinus  lepideus  is  one  cause  of  the  decay  of  telegraph  poles, 
railroad  ties,  and  bridges. 

Scaly  Lentinus  (Edible  ±r,££?) 

Lentinus  lepideus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  58) 


Section  of 
L.  lepideus 


Cap  or  Pileus — Fleshy,  firm,  convex  or 
expanded.  Creamy  white,  spotted 
with  dark  brown  appressed  scales. 
3-5  inches. 

Gills  or  Lamella  —  Rather  broad,  not 
crowded;  growing  down  the  stem. 
White  edges,  irregularly  toothed. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Whitish.    Sometimes  ec- 


Len-tl'-nus 


L«p-M'-*-«- 


White-spored  Scries 

centric,  straight,  or  curved;  firm,  solid,  equal,  or  tapering  at 

the  base.     2-4  inches  long. 
Ring  or  Annulus — None. 
Spores— White. 

j%ol— White. 

Time — June  to  August. 

Habitat — On  wood ;  common  on  railroad  ties. 


GENUS  PLEUROTUS 

In  the  genus  Pleurotus  the  stem  is  attached  to  the  cap  at 
some  point  to  one  side  of  the  centre.  The  stem  may  be  on  the 
very  margin  of  the  cap,  or  may  be  wanting  altogether.  The 
three  species  to  be  mentioned  all  grow  on  dead  wood — either  on 
dead  trees  or  on  dead  branches  of  living  trees. 

The  name  Pleurotus  comes  from  a  Greek  word  meaning 
side,  and  has  reference  to  the  position  of  the  stem. 


Oyster  Mushroom  (Edible) 

Pleurotus  ostreatus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  62) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Fleshy,   convex,    smooth,   and  moist.     White, 

or  tinted  with  ash  colour  or  brown.    Three  to  five  inches. 
Gills  or  Lamella— White,  or  tinted  with  ash ;  broad ;  growing  down 

the    stem,    and 

branching  again 

and  again  at  the 

base. 
Stem  or  Stipe— Short 

or  wanting. 
Spores —  White,    ob- 

long. 

Flesh — White,  tough.  Section  of  P.  ostreatus 

Time — September. 

Habitat— On  dead  wood.     The  specimens  pictured  were  found 

growing  on  a  dead  forest  tree  at  Lake  Placid.     The  largest 

shells  measured  four  inches  across. 

Plu-r5'-tfis  Os-tre-a'-ttis 

57 


Fungi  with  Gills 

Pleurotus  sapidus  (Edible) 

(Lilac-tinged  spores,  only,  distinguish  from  P.  ostreatus.) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Convex  or  depressed,  smooth,   often  irregular. 

White,  yellowish,  ashy  grey,  dull  lilac,  or  even  brownish ; 

overlapping  each  other.     2-5  inches  broad. 
Gills  or  Lamella — Whitish,  rather  distant,  growing  down  the 

stem,  branching  and  connecting  again  at  stem  end. 


Section  of  P.  sapidus 

Stem  or  Stipe — Stems  more  or  less  united  at  the  base,  eccentric  or 

lateral,  smooth,  whitish.     1-2  inches  long. 
Spores — Lilac,  oblong. 
Time — June  to  November. 
Flesh— White,  tough. 
Habitat— -In  clusters,  often  from  a  common  stem,  growing  on 

decayed  wood. 

Elm    Pleurotus   (Edible) 

Pleurotus  ulmarius 

Cap  or  Pileus — Convex  or  nearly  flat,   firm,   smooth.     White, 

tinted  at  the  centre  with  reddish  yellow  or  brownish  yellow. 
2-5  inches  broad. 
Gills  or  Lamella — Broad,  not  crowded,  notched  at  the  stem  end, 

growing  down  the  stem.     White,  turning  yellow  with  age. 
Stem  or  Stipe — United  to  the  cap  one  side  of  the  centre.    Usually 

curved  ;  solid,  smooth,  or  downy.     White  or  whitish.     2-4 

inches  long. 

SSp'-l-dtts  Ul-ma'-rf-iis 

58 


White-»pored  Serits 


Section  of  P.  ulmarius 

Flesh — White,  not  tender,  agreeable  flavour. 
Spores — White,  globose. 
Time — September  to  November. 

Habitat — Conspicuous  on  dead  parts  of  standing  elms.  Large  and 
white.  Sometimes  found  on  other  than  elm  trees. 

GENUS  HYGROPHORUS 

The  members  of  this  genus  may  be  recognized  by  their  moist 
caps  and  by  the  waxy  nature  of  their  gills,  which  usually  grow 
downward  on  the  stem  (decurrent),  and  are  not  very  closely 
placed  side  by  side.  No  species  is  known  to  be  dangerous. 

Chantarelle  hygrophorus  (Edible) 

Hygrophorusjcantbarellus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  63) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Thin,  convex  at  first,  but  later  depressed.  Cov- 
ered with  minute  scales.  Moist,  bright  red,  becoming  orange 
or  yellow.  Y*-\  inch  broad. 

Hf-£roph'-d-rtis 

59 


Fungi  with  Gills 

Gills  or  Lamella — Distant,  somewhat  arched,  growing  downward 

on  the  stem  (decurrent).     Yellow,  sometimes  tinged  with 

vermilion.     Unequal. 
Stem  or  Stipe — Smooth,    not    truly   solid,    sometimes    hollow. 

Coloured  like  the  cap,  whitish  within.     2-4  inches  long. 
Ring  or  Annulus — None. 
Spores — White. 

Flesh — Disagreeable  in  flavour. 
Habitat — Swamps  and  damp,  shaded  places  ;   in  fields  or  woods. 

Common.     The    specimen    photographed    was    found  in 

dense  mixed  woods,  Lake  Placid. 

Var.  H.  rosea  has  the  cap  expanded  and  the  margin  wavy. 
Var.  H.  flaw  has  the  cap  and  stem  pale  yellow,  the  gills 
arched  and  strongly  decurrent. 

Var.  H.  flampes  has  the  cap  and  stem  red  or  reddish. 
Var.  H.  flamceps  has  the  cap  yellow  and  the  stem  reddish. 


Vermilion  Hygrophorus  (Edible) 


Hygroploms  miniatus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  63) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Thin,  fragile  at  first,  convex,   becoming  nearly 
flat.     Smooth  or  minutely  scaly.     Often   depressed.     Red, 
fading  to  yellow  or  orange.     1-2  inches  broad. 
Gills  or  Lamella — Distant.     Usually  yellow,   sometimes  tinged 

with    red.       Notched  at  the 
stem  enc*>  or  growing  down 
t^le  stem>  or  fastened  to  the 
stem  by  the  entire  width  of 
the  inner  extremity  of  the  gill. 
Stem   or   Stipe — Slender,     smooth. 
Coloured  like  the  cap.     Solid 
when  young,    hollow    when 
old.     1-2  inches  long. 
Ring  or  Annulus — None. 
Spores — White,  elliptical. 
Flesh — Tender,  and    of   agreeable 

flavour. 

Time — June  to  September. 
Habitat—  Adapts  itself  to  varying 
conditions.  Singly,  in  groups, 
or  in  clusters,  in  bogs  or  on 

<*ry  hillocks.      The  specimen  photographed  was  found  in 
woods,  among  fallen  leaves  and  decayed  wood,  Lake  Placid. 


Section  of  H.  miniatus 


Fliv'-I-pes 


Flav'-i-cSps 
60 


White-spored  Series 


Ivory  Hygrophorus  (Edible) 

Hygrophorus  eburneus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  87) 

Cap  or  Pileus  —White; 

1-3  inches,  thin, 

fleshy,  viscid. 
Stem  or  Stipe— White, 

unequal,     long, 

slender,     stuffed, 

or  hollow;  viscid. 
Gills     or     Lamella — 

White,      waxy, 

unequal,  distant, 

growing     down 

the  stem  (decur- 

rent),  thick  and 

firm. 
Volva  and  Annulus  — 

Wanting. 
Spores  — White. 
Flesh— Odour    and 

taste  grateful. 
Time  —September. 
Habitat— The     speci- 
men photographed  was  found  growing  among  moss  and  fallen 

leaves  in  dense  wood,  Lake  Placid. 

GENUS  ARMILLARIA 

The  members  of  this  genus  have  white  spores,  and  the  gills 
attached  by  the  inner  extremity  to  the  stem.  The  stem  has  a 
collar,  but  no  wrapper  at  the  base.  The  name  is  derived  from  the 
Latin  armilla,  a  bracelet,  referring  to  the  ring  upon  the  stem. 

Honey-coloured  Armillaria  (Edible) 

Armillaria  mellea  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  70) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Colour  from  almost  white  to  dark  reddish  brown. 
Young  plants  have  numerous  minute  tufts  or  scales  of 
brownish  or  blackish  hairs.  Margins  sometimes  striated. 
1-6  inches  broad. 


Section  of  H.  eburneus 


Eb-tir'-ne'-fis 


Xr'-mH-la'-rM 

"  61 


MCNS4 


Fungi  with  Gills 

Stem  or  Stipe — Usually  reddish  brown,  paler  above  than  below. 
Uniform  in  thickness,  narrowed  or  slightly  thickened  at  the 
base.  Firm  externally;  soft  and  spongy,  or  hollow 

within.  i-6  inches  long. 
Ring  or  Annulus — Cottony  to 
membranous,  sometimes 
lacking  in  old  plants. 
Gills   or  Lamella  —  Simply 
joined  to  the  stem  or  run- 
ning down  it.     White  or 
whitish  ;  sometimes  va- 
riegated   with    reddish- 
brown  spots. 
Spores — White,  elliptical. 
Flesh — White     or     whitish. 
Section  of  A.  meilea  Taste  unpleasant  or  acrid. 

Quality  inferior. 
Habitat — Common  in  woods  or  in  cleared  land,  on  the  ground  or 

on  decayed  wood.     Solitary  or  clustered. 
Time — Abundant  in  September.     Found  in  June. 

Var.  obscura  has  cap  covered  with  numerous  small,  blackish 
scales. 

Van  flaw  has  cap  yellow  or  reddish  yellow. 

Var.  glabra  has  cap  smooth. 

Var.  radicata  has  tapering  stem  which  penetrates  the  earth 
deeply. 

Var.  bulbosa  has  bulbous  base. 

Var.  exannulata  has  cap  smooth,  margin  even,  stem  tapering, 
annulus  slight  and  evanescent,  or  wholly  wanting. 

The  Armillaria  meilea  has  a  disagreeable  taste  when  raw,  but 
when  cooked  it  is  thought  by  some  to  be  very  good.  Dr.  Peck  says 
he  does  not  know  of  any  unwholesome  species  for  which  it  may 
be  mistaken.  The  Armillaria  meilea  has  the  habit,  very  unusual 
for  a  member  of  the  group  of  Agaracales,  of  producing  from  its  my- 
celial  threads  tuber-like  masses  of  fungal  substances  from  which 
the  fruiting  caps  arise.  The  fungal  masses  of  the  Armillaria, 
the  so-called  sclerotia,  are  ribbon  or  string  like,  and  may  be 
found  between  the  wood  and  bark  of  cone-bearing  trees.  These 
sclerotia  send  out  cylindrical  branches,  called  rhizomorphs, 
which  may  penetrate  the  soil  and  attack  the  roots  of  other  trees, 
and  so  continue  their  work  of  destruction  in  the  forest. 

6b-scu'-ra  Gla'-bra  Bfil-bo'-sa 

Flav'-i  Rad-l-ca'-ta  Ex-an'-nfi-la'-ti 

62 


Oyster  Mushroom  (edible). 
(Pleurotus  ostreatus,  Fn) 
(Large  shells,  4  inches  or  more  across.)     Reduced.    See  page  57. 


Golden-flesh  Boletus.     (Boletus  chrysenteron,  1-r.).        Reduced.    See  page 


Vermilion  Hygrophorus  (edible).     (1  lygrophorus  miniatus,  Fr.).       See  pa-r  fii- 


Chanterelle  Ih'grophorus  (edible.)     (Hygrophorus  cantharellus,  Schw.) 

Slightly  reduced.     See  rase  59. 


White-spored  Series 


It  is  to  the  luminosity  of  these  mycelial  threads,  which  per- 
meate the  decaying  wood,  that  the  weird  phosphorescent  light  in 
dense  woods  is  due. 

GENUS  LEPIOTA  (SEE  PLATE  FAC.NG  PAGE  64) 

The  members  of  this  genus  have  the  gills  free  from  the  stem, 
and  have  no  wrapper  remains  at  the  base  of  the  stem.  In  some 
species  the  cap  or  pileus  has  the  surface  scaly,  owing  to  the  rup- 
ture of  the  fibres  which  compose  it.  It  is  this  feature  which  has 
suggested  the  name  Lepiota,  from  the  Latin  word  lepis — a  scale. 
There  are  about  thirty 
species  represented 
in  the  United  States, 
of  which  a  few  are 
commonly  eaten. 
Some  are  dangerous. 

Parasol  Mushroom; 
Tall  Lepiota  (Edi- 
ble—  but  danger- 
ous to  beginners) 

Lepiota  procera 
(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  66) 

Cap  or  Pileus  —Convex,  like 

an   open  umbrella. 

Thin,  umbonate,  cov- 
ered    with    closely 

pressed  scales.    3-5 

inches  broad. 

Stem  or  Stipe— Long,  hol- 
low, or  with   cottony 

pith;   bulbous  at   the 

base;  usually  covered 

with    closely    pressed 

scales.        5-10  inches 

long. 
Veil  or  Ring— Thick  and 

firm;  often  movable  on 

the  stem. 


L*p-l-c?-tt 


Section  of  L.  procera 
Pr6$'-*-ri 


Fungi  with  Gills 

Gills  or  Lamella—  Closely  placed,  side  by  side.  Whitish,  or 
tinged  with  yellow.  The  inner  extremity  remote  from  the 
stem. 

Spores— White,  elliptical. 

Flesh— White,  soft,  and  dry. 

Time— July  to  September. 

Habitat— Thin  woods,  pastures,  and  by  roadsides. 

Dangerous  to  beginners  because  of  its  resemblance  to  Amanita. 

The  specific  name,  Procera,  from  the  Latin  procera  (tall), 
refers  to  the  length  of  the  stem. 

There  is  no  poisonous  species  for  which  it  can  be  mistaken 
if  one  bears  in  mind  that  it  has  a  long  stem  with  bulbous  base, 
a  brownish,  spotted  cap  with  dark  apex,  and  a  broad  basin  about 
the  insertion  of  the  stem. 


Smooth  Lepiota 

Lepiota  naucinoides  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  66) 

Cap   or   Pileus  —Smooth,    white; 

rarely    the    central    part    of 

the    cap    is    tinged    with    a 

smoky  hue.    2-4  inches  broad. 
Stem  or  Stipe — Coloured  like  the 

cap;  thickened  at   the  base. 

Hollow  or  webby.    2-3  inches 

long. 

Veil  or  Annulus  —White.     Exter- 
nal   edge    generally    thicker 

than  the  inner;  often  movable 

on  the  stem. 
Gills    or    Lamella—  White    when 

young;  when  old,  pinkish  or 

smoky  brown.    Rounded  at 

the  inner  extremity  and  not 

attached  to  the  stem.    Nar- 
rower toward  the  stem  than 

in  the  middle. 

Spores— White,  sub-elliptical. 
Flesh— Thick,  white,  and  tender. 
Time  — August — November. 
Dangerous  to  beginners  because  of 

its  resemblance  to  Amanita. 


Section  of  L.  naucinoides 


The  smooth  lepiota  resembles  the  chalk  agaric  (Agaricus 
eretaceous),  which  has  brown  spores,  and  the  meadow  mush- 

64 


White-spored  Series 

room  (Agaricus  campestris),  which  has  darker  gills,  a  persistent 
collar,  and  a  stem  tapering  at  the  base.  No  harm  can  come  from 
confusing  these  for  edible  purposes.  Great  care  should  be  taken 
to  be  sure  that  a  specimen  thought  to  be  a  smooth  lepiota  has  no 
volva  or  wrapper  at  the  base,  for  the  absence  of  a  volva  is  the 
most  marked  difference  between  it  and  the  poisonous  vernal 
amanita  (Amanita  verna).  The  gills  of  the  smooth  lepiota  turn 
a  dingy  brown  or  pink,  and  those  of  the  vernal  amanita  remain 
white  ;  and  the  cap  of  the  smooth  lepiota  has  not  the  moist 
smoothness  and  the  brilliant  whiteness  of  the  vernal  amanita. 

Lepiota   Friesii  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  71) 

Cap  or  Pileus—  Rather  thin,  convex,  or  nearly  plain,  with  soft, 
tawny  fibres  forming  small  patches  over  the  surface.  1-4 
inches  wide. 

Stem  or  Stipe  —  Tapering  toward  the  cap,  slightly  bulbous  at  the 
base.  The  lower  part  of  the  stem  coloured  like  the  cap,  and 
with  similar  fibrils.  Hollow.  Powdery  white  above  the 
ring.  2-5  inches  long. 

Ring  or  Annulus  —  Present  and  pendulous. 

Gills  or  Lamella  —  Narrow,  crowded,  free  from  stem  ;  white  ;  some 
forked. 


Flesh  —  Soft,  white,  with  a  slight  odour  when  bruised. 

Ring  or  Annulus  —  Well  developed,  drooping.    White  above,  and 

tawny  or  scaly  below. 
Habitat  —  Soft,  loose  soil  in  bushy  places. 
Time  —  July  to  September. 


GENUS  MARASMIUS 

The  genus  Marasmius  belongs  to  the  white-spored  series. 
The  plants  are  small,  and  wither  and  shrivel  in  dry  weather,  to 
revive  a^ain  when  wet.  The  gills  are  thin,  and  have  acute, 
edges.  M.  peronatus  and  M.  urens  are  poisonous  or  suspected. 

The  generic  name  comes  from  the  same  Greek  word  as  the 
word  marasmus,  the  name  applied  to  a  disease  from  which  the 
patient  wastes  away  without  any  apparent  cause.  The  signifi- 
cance of  the  name  will  be  apparent  to  one  who  watches  the 
fleshy  little  plant  shrink  away  when  the  sun  shines. 

Fre'-sM  Mi.r 


Fungi  with  Gills 


Fairy-ring  Mushroom  (Edible) 

Marasmius  oreades 

Cap  or  Pt'kus— Fleshy,  tough,  smooth,  convex,  or  nearly  plane, 
often  with  the  centre  higher  than  the  space  between  it  and 
the  rim.  Reddish  ;  fading,  as  it  ages  or  dries,  to  pale  yellow 
or  buff.  1-2  inches  broad. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Broad  and  wide  apart,  creamy  or  yellowish, 
rounded  at  the  stem  end,  unequal. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Whitish,  slender,  tough,  solid,  coated  with  dense 
woolly  hairs.  1-2%  inches  long. 

Ring  or  Annulus — None. 

Spores— White. 

Flesh — Thin,  white,  tough. 

Time — May  to  October. 

Habitat — In  circles  or  groups. 

Dangerous  fungi  somewhat  resembling  the  M.  oreades,  and 
found  in  company  with  it,  may  be  distinguished  by  their  dark- 
coloured  spores. 


GENUS  COLLYBIA 

The  members  of  this  genus  have  white  spores,  and  the 
lamellae  with  thin  edges  attached  to  the  stem  by  their  inner  ex- 
tremity. The  stem  has  a  cartilaginous  rind ;  that  is,  it  is  hard  and 
of  a  tough  texture.  The  genus  contains  fifty-four  American 
species,  some  of  which  are  regarded  as  edible,  while  others  are 
regarded  as  deleterious.  The  velvet-stemmed  collybia,  or  Col- 
lybia veltttipas,  is  edible,  and  remarkable  for  its  habit  of  growing 
long  after  the  frosts  of  winter  have  come.  It  is  easily  recognised 
by  its  yellowish  and  viscid  cap,  and  its  habit  of  growing  in  tufts, 
and  developing  on  the  stem  a  dense  coat  of  velvety  hairs.  The 
rooted  collybia,  Collybia  radicata,  may  be  recognised  by  the  char- 
acter of  its  stem,  as  the  lower  part  is  like  a  slender  tap  root,  gener- 
ally penetrating  the  earth  to  a  depth  equal  to  the  length  of  the 
stem  above  the  surface. 

O-re'-S-des  CM-l^b'-l-* 

66 


SMOOTH   LEPIOTA    (EDIBLE) 

(Lep:ota  nancintiiries.  Peck) 

Nat.  size  :  Cap  diam.,  z1/?  inches;  stem  length,  4^2  inches. 


PARASOL    MUSHROOM.     TALL  LEPIOTA   (EDIBLE) 

(Lepiota  procera^  Scop.) 

Nat.  Size  :  Cap  Diam.,  3^  inches;  stem  length,  4%  inches 
See  page  63 


SPOTTED    COLLYBIA  (EDIBLE,   Mel.) 

(Cottybia   maculata,   A.  &  S.) 
Cap  and  stem  white  with  rusty  spots ;    gills  white.    See  Genus,   p.  66 


BSOAD-GILLED    COLLYBIA  (EDIBLE,  Mel.) 

(Collybia,  platyphylla,   Fr.) 
Surface  of  cap  brownish,  fibrillose ;  gills  white.    See  Genus,  p.  66 


Collybia  fantilia,  Peck.     Reduced  (Edible) 


WAXY    CLITOCYBE    (EDIBLE) 

(.Clifocyte  laccata.  Scop.) 
Cap,  J-2  inches;  stem,  1-3  inches.     See  page  70 


DECEIVING  CLITOCYBE   (POISONOUS) 

(Clitocybf  illudent.  Schw.) 
Dull  orange;  phosphorescent.     See  Genus,  p.  70 


White-spored  Series 

Collybia  familia  (Edible) 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  66) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Greyish,  with  centre  darker.      Smooth   margin, 
often  cracked.     Slightly  striate. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Slightly  greyish,  soft,  un- 
equal, free,  not  crowded. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Greyish,  hollow.  Lower 
part  covered  with  white  woolly  sub- 
stance. 

Sports— White. 

Flesh — Greenish  grey. 

Time — September.  Section  of  C.  familia 

Habitat — The  specimen   photographed  was 

found  growing  upon  a  prostrate  evergreen  tree  near  Lake 
Placid. 

GENUS  PAN  US  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  151) 

The  members  of  this  genus  are  leathery  plants,  with  the 
stems  lateral  or  wanting.  The  gills  are  simple,  not  forked,  and 
the  spores  are  white.  Panus  stypticus  is  common  on  rotten 
wood,  and  gives  out  a  weird,  phosphorescent  light. 

The  species  of  the  genus  Panus  so  much  resemble  species 
of  the  genus  Lcntinus,  which  do  not  have  toothed  margins,  that 
Panus  zndLentinus  are  considered  by  some  as  one  genus,  with 

the  name  Lentinus.    Some  species  of  Panus  are  dangerous. 

i 

GENUS   TROGIA 

But  one  American  species  is  reported;  this  is  small  and 
leathery,  brownish  in  colour,  with  the  spore-bearing  surface 
white.  The  lamellae  are  obtuse  on  their  edges,  and  are  not  hairy. 
The  spores  are  white.  This  plant  is  common  on  fallen  branches 
of  the  alder. 

GENUS  SCH1ZOPHYLLUM 

The  members  of  this  genus  have  white  spores  and  a  leathery 
pileus,  with  the  lamellae  hairy  and  grooved,  or  split.  Schiqo- 
phyllum  commune  is  common  on  twigs  or  branches.  It  varies 
from  %  to  2  inches  across,  appearing  as  fluted  shells  on  the 
bark. 

Fa-mll'-T-i         Pi'-ntts        Trdg'-f-i        SkKz-S-phyl'-ltim        CQm-mu'-ne 

67 


Fungi  with  Gills 


GENUS  OMPHALIA 

The  members  of  this  genus  have  white  spores,  and  the  gills 
growing  down  on  the  stem.  They  have  a  hard,  tough  rind  to  the 
stem,  which  distinguishes  them  from  the  genus  Cltiocybe,  which 
has  fleshy  stems.  Omphalia  umbellifera  is  a  small  species,  with 
a  cap  about  an  inch  broad.  It  is  the  common  mushroom  on  the 
top  of  Mount  Marcy,  the  highest  mountain  in  the  State  of  New 
York. 

GENUS  RUSSULE 

The  genus  Russula  may  usually  be  recognised  by  its  brittle 
character,  added  to  its  fleshy  stem  and  the  fact  that  the  lamellae 
are  usually  joined  to  the  stem.  Bright  clear  reds  and  purplish 
hues  prevail,  but  several  species  exhibit  a  green  colour,  or  an 
approach  to  green.  The  spores  are  white  or  yellowish,  and  the 
flesh  never  exudes  a  milky  or  coloured  juice.  Six  species  are  dan- 
gerous. 

Emetic  Russula  (Dangerous) 

Russula  emeiica  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  74) 

Cap  or  Ptfeus—R.osy  tint  to  rich  red.  Flesh  thin.  The  margin 

furrowed  with  parallel 
lines.  Skin  separable, 
somewhat  viscid.  Cap 
diameter  of  specimen 
photographed,  3% 
inches. 

Gills  or  Lamella  —  White. 
Usually  uniform,  occa- 
sionally  unequal  ; 
broad  and  brittle. 

Stem  or  Stipe  —  Rosy.  Swol- 
len near  the  base. 
Specimen  photo- 
graphed, 2>£  inches 


Section  of  R.  emetica 

Spores—  White. 

Flesh  —  White,  unless  just  under  the  skin,  where  it  may  be  pink. 
Very  fragile.     Peppery  to  the  taste. 

6m-pha'-H-5  Um-bgl-ll'-fg-rS  Rfis'-sfi-li  fi-mft'-I-cS 


68 


White-spored  Series 

Taste — Acrid  and  biting. 
Time — July  to  November. 

Habitat — In  damp  meadows,  in  woods,  in  grassy  places,  under 
pine  trees  and  firs. 


Green   Russula;    Verdette  (Edible) 

Russula  virescens 


Cap  or  Pileus — Greyish  green.  At  first  globose,  then  expanded  ; 
convex  or  depressed  at  the  centre.  Firm  and  dry.  Not 
viscid,  but  adorned  with  flaky  greenish  or  yellowish 
patches,  produced  by  the  cracking  of  the  skin.  2-4  inches 
broad.  Margin  marked  with  impressed  lines. 


Section  of  R.  virescens 


Gills  or  Lamella  —  White.     Moderately  close  ;   free,  or  nearly  so  ; 

narrow  as  they  approach  the  stem.     Some  forked,  others 

not. 
Stem  or  Stipe  —  Shorter  than  the  diameter  of  the  cap.     Smooth, 

white,  and  solid,  or  somewhat  softer  within.     1-2  inches 

long. 

Spores  —  White,  rough,  nearly  globose. 
Flesh  —  White     mild  in  taste. 


69 


Fungi  with  Gills 

Time — July  and  August. 

Habitat — Grassy  grounds,  groves,  and  open  woods. 

No  milky  nor  coloured  juice,  no  coloured  circular  zones. 

Variable   Russula  (Edible) 

Russula  heterophylla 

Cap  or  Pileus — Variable  in  colour.  Greenish  or  pinkish  grey,  but 
fleshy,  firm  ;  slightly  convex,  then  depressed  ;  smooth,  and 
polished,  the  very  thin  skin  disappearing.  Margin  thin, 
smooth,  or  with  slightly  depressed  lines  closely  placed. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Solid,  firm,  smooth,  shining  white,  the  apex  oc- 
casionally dilated  in  the  form  of  a  cup. 

Annulus  or  Volva — None. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Narrow,  crowded,  forked  ;  white  ;  of  different 
lengths. 

Spores— White. 

Flesh— White  ;  mild  in  taste. 

Habitat—  Woods.     Common. 

Time—]u\y  to  October. 

The  specific  name  refers  to  the  difference  in  the  lengths  of 
the  gills. 

GENUS  CLITOCYBE 

The  members  of  the  genus  Clitocybe  have  the  spores  white, 
no  volva  or  annulus,  the  gills  with  thin  edges  not  notched  on 
the  edge  near  the  stem,  and  generally  decurrent. 

ClitOCybe   laCCata  (Edible)    (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  66) 
Must  not  be  confused  with  the  poisonous  C.  illudens. 

Cap  or  Pileus— When  moist,  pale  red,  buff  red,  or  flesh  red; 
when  dry,  greyish  to  pale  yellowish  brown.  Surface  cov- 
ered with  tiny  tufts  of  hair.  Convex  when  young,  flattened 
with  wavy  margin  when  old  ;  often  depressed.  %-2  inches 
broad. 

Gills  or  Lamella— Broad,  distant,  unequal.  Flesh  colour.  Slightly 
decurrent. 

Veil  and  Annulus — None. 

Stem  or  Stipe— Slender,  stiff,  fibrous,  stuffed,  or  hollow.  Colour 
like  cap.  Often  twisted.  1-3  inches  long. 

Spores — White,  rough,  globose. 

Flesh — Thin,  pale  flesh  colour,  leathery,  tasteless. 

H*t'«r-6-ph?l'-la.  Cll-tS^y'-be  LSc-ca'-t* 

70 


Fat  Pholiota,  (edible). 
Pholiota  adiposa,  Fr.)     Cap,  2-4  inches  broad.    See  page  83 


Honey-coloured  Armillaria  (edible). 

(Armillaria  mellea,  Vahl). 
Cap,  1-6  inches;  stem,  1-6  inches.    See  page  61. 


Lepiota  Friesii,  Lasch.  (edible). 
Cap,  1-4  inches;  stem,  2-5  inches. 
See  page  65. 


Cortinarius  alboviolaceus,  Fr. 
Cap,  2J4  inches;  stem,  3  inches.    See  page  86. 


White-spored  Series 


Sections  of  C.  laccata 

Time — Spring  to  autumn. 

Habitat—  Wood,  swamps,  or  open  fields,  naked  ground,  mossy 
or  grassy  places. 

Var.  amethystina  has  cap  darker,  gills  amethyst,  quite 
decurrent. 

Var.  pallidifolia,  gills  paler  than  laccata. 

Var.  striatula,  plants  small,  gills  showing  as  lines  through 
the  thin  cap. 

ClitOCybe  virens  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  75) 

Cap  or  Pileus— Fleshy,  convex,  expanded,  obtuse.     Pale  greenish 

blue. 

Gills  or  Lamella — White,  crowded,  thin,  slightly  decurrent. 
Stem  or  Stipe — White,  with  occasional  rusty  spots  ;  stiff,  solid. 

Sometimes  two  stems  are  found  growing  together  at  the  base. 
Spores— White. 
/%^— White. 
Time — Autumn. 
Habitat— The  specimen   photographed  was  found  growing  in 

mixed  woods  in  Pennsylvania. 

Am-*-th?s'-tf-na  PU-H-dMo'-lM  StrUt'-t-l*  W-rens 

71 


Fungi  with  Gills 


GENUS    TRICHOLOMA 


The  members  of  genus  Tricholoma  have  white  spores,  and 
no  collar  on  the  stem.  The  gills  are  attached  to  the  stem,  and 
are  notched  on  the  edge  at  or  near  the  stem. 


Masked   Tricholoma  (Edible) 

Tricholoma  personatum  (var.  bulbosum)  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  82) 


Cap  or  Pileus — Variable  in  colour;  pale  lilac,  with  yellowish  tint; 
brighter  in  young  specimens  ;  sometimes  whitish  or  pale 
greyish.  Thick,  fleshy,  convex  when  young,  with  margin 

rolled  in,  and 
slight  bloom  or 
mealiness  on 
the  surface. 
When  mature, 
smooth  ;  mar- 
gin wavy  or 
turned  upward. 
Gills  or  Lamella — 
Faint  lilac  col- 
our, with  tint 
of  violet.  Nar- 
row, unequal, 
free,  close,  and 
rounded  at  the 
stem  end. 

Stem — Faint  lilac 
tint.  Surface 
rather  fibrous ; 
short,  stout, 
solid,  bulbous. 
Spores — S  o  r  d  i  d 

Section  of  T.  personatum  (var.  lulbosunf)  white        ellinti-i 

cal. 

Flesh — Firm. 

Habitat — Thin  woods,  open  grassy  places. 
Time — September  to  freezing  weather. 

P£r-son-a'-ttim 


Brown-spored  Series 

Craterellus  cantharellus  (Edible) 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  74) 

or  Pileus — Margin  wavy.  Yellow  or  pinkish 
yellow.  Fleshy,  firm,  convex,  then  centrally 
depressed. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Blunt,  running  down  the  stem, 
forking  many  times. 

Stem — Solid,  yellow,  and  smooth. 

Spores — Yellowish. 

Flesh — White,  slightly  stained  in  places.      Taste 
slightly  peppery  ;  no  odour. 

Time — Summer  and  autumn. 

Habitat—  Specimen  photographed  was  found  grow- 
ing in  moss  and  earth  on  an  old  wood  road  in        Section  of  c. 
mixed  woods,  New  Jersey.  cantharellus 


l) 


Craterellus  is  at  present  classified  as  one  of  the  family 
Thelephoracece.  For  convenience  we  have  placed  it  under 
"  Fungi  with  Gills."  It  is  interesting,  as  it  forms  a  connecting 
link  between  fam.  Thelephoracex  and  fam.  Agaricacece. 

GENUS  AGARICUS 

The  genus  Agaricus  includes  all  brown-spored  species  which 
have  free  gills  and  a  stem  with  a  collar.  The  distinctive  features 
of  several  edible  species  may  be  quite  satisfactorily  seen  by  refer- 
ence to  the  table  with  parallel  columns. 

Mushroom-growing  is  becoming  quite  an  important  industry 
in  this  country  ;  both  professional  horticulturists  and  amateurs 
successfully  engage  in  it.  It  is  not  a  difficult  matter  to  raise  the 
common  mushroom,  as  the  conditions  necessary  are  easily  ob- 
tained. Mushrooms  will  grow  almost  anywhere  out  of  doors, 
and  also  in  cellars,  caves,  and  tunnels  where  a  uniform  and  mod- 
erate temperature  of  from  50°  to  60°  Fahr.  can  be  maintained.  The 
part  of  a  cellar  devoted  to  mushrooms  must  be  darkened  some- 
what, must  have  a  dry  floor,  and  must  be  protected  from  wet 
overhead  and  from  winds.  These  conditions  are  common  in  cel- 
lars which  are  rather  dark,  but  sufficiently  well  ventilated  not  to 
be  musty.  The  bed  for  the  mushrooms  is  prepared  in  a  manner 

Cra'-ter-el'-ltis  Thel-e-pho-ra'-je-ae  X-g&r'-I-ciis 

73 


Fungi  with  Gills 

similar  to  that  employed  in  making  a  hot-bed,  care  being  taken 
that  the  conditions  are  such  that  too  great  heat  is  not  generated. 
Any  one  desiring  to  experiment  will  find  it  helpful  to  have  the 
"Farmers'  Bulletin,"  No.  53,  "How  to  Grow  Mushrooms," 
which  may  be  obtained  from  the  United  States  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C. 


?4 


Pholiota  agger  icola^  Peck 

Reduced  slightly 
See  page  84 


Craterellus  cantharellus,  Schw. 
(Edible.)    Reduced  slightly 


a 

.1 

a 


Brown-spored  Series 


c                   i 

41 

4>                                3 

•S 

a 

~             s 

£ 

c 

® 
o 

II     1 

3 

T3 
"O                 ? 
O 

n 

"~             •§ 

"S 

.  ..g       I 

u 

o           "> 

—                  0 

|f 

CO 
UJ 

u 

< 

k 
A 
3 
(0 

3    ^    ~              ^ 

i  11          i  §        i 

H 

CO 

< 
O 
U 

£ 

10                     ° 

1^    I 

IH          i 

i 

_J 
a. 

to   S  ^            ^           W 

< 

?S  ^      -5J                       "-3 

Ib                **9                                      Ul 

UJ 

^ 

c                  '  ti  >» 

CO 

T3                  £ 

UJ 

J:                 £  ^li 

•^ 

J>                   u 

cu 
0 

r.          1^1 

O 

"3         .ti 

fti 
O 

uo 

CO 

.  arvensis 

S  %  !r 

Ou                      O.g  J> 

>\                i>     -2 

*3                            O...C 

od 
O 

co" 

UJ 

sylvatlcus 

°      s              1 

f.  Jf.       1 
n  sg      t 

^:  c      •«  ° 

<-»  3        5  *•                        3 

-Oivrhoi-da'-rMla 
S'-my-ces 

0 
co" 

UJ 

< 

lie              Ij|*     _ 

C/5     ^                            ^                        tjj 

O 
O 

0 

< 

II  i!       1 

E?      a              iS 

ii 

D 
co 

•             trt            o  *rt 
c             ^            i>  -— 

>         c        o  ° 
•§        2-S 

CO 

a 

0 

1       1 
s       ^» 
S       "2 

^^ 

"^        1H             >2 

o 

CD 

•a           J; 

cu 

5 

"c 
cd 
£ 
•o 

a  1     |     fi 

12  ;E      -o      .-^ 

2 

omyce 

t     ? 

c   .     2 

"Sro      g 

i 

GROWING 

o 
oc 

o    fe         5        <u 

.      •>            P          •—   u 
^3      -*-•             tr           .£}   r- 

OJ           (/)                    «O                   ^5   •*-          • 

i£        S                                    0  *'    "* 

2   «->        S      O  S  u 
wp    <        j  a.    I    o  E        J> 

i  r8.    i  >  'o      fQ 
4    i       i£  a  $  S. 

^•5       r^o1^^!/)        uu 

ROWING 

u 
rt 

Q 
< 

*C    C         c   *^ 

u  a           c3 

<u       "•    ^                         c> 

*"Q    *""             1      o                                  "^ 

|*>*         % 

s? 

ii 

Ml 

O 

, 

CO 

4) 

c-        J:       ^ 

co 

-—          c  ^_* 

3                     >     KJ 

^^^ 

to 

•fc       *          "^ 

r*  * 

"°          o"o 

^ 

— 

o        £         g  c 

z 

0) 

3 

0              JQ   0 

I 

+> 

_S           «         <S2  u 

^J 

^x: 

Q- 

0) 

0 

"fc     «     -•- 

J 

"L 
« 

•5    . 

— 

a 

£ 

<d 

•    **ii           oi          Co 

i  J    1    11" 

a- 

•o 

O 

£ 

'»  •     o2         3 

ii  is  1 

*- 

o 

•-   •-        -°  a.   «  "° 

i™~' 

i_ 
I. 

"«>  S 

(0 

^              «  "    «*  c 

O 

_j^>  O         t   > 

ta 

Agaricu 

II   JM  Ii 
11   llll     1 

<D 

£ 

< 

'll     |S"c      1 

1  *  *f  j  1    1    *>• 

-«JT3         1  "«  2        g       3 

•    V 

-1 

<J& 

•Si    •**         •»»  ^    "^  *J              *3 

«!j  i-        Q<  ">  «^        ^Jj       15 

£5  <£      ti      ?j             i2 

^            ^J                 'O       W 

75 


Fungi  with  Gills' 

Common  Mushroom  (Edible) 

Agaricus  campestris  (SEE  PLATES  FACING  PAGE  82) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Silky,  or  with  fine  fibres.  The  young  plants — 
"buttons" — are  hemispherical  or  almost  globose.  The 
mature  plants  are  convex  or  nearly  flat.  White,  or  tinged 
with  dingy  browns.  Skin  separable.  Margin  extending 
beyond  the  gills. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Delicate  pink,  then  dark  brown,  covered  by  a 
veil  in  young  plants.  Crowded,  rounded  at  the  inner  ex- 
tremity. Not  attached  to  stem 

Stem  or  Stipe — White,  smooth ;  stuffed ;  that  is,  softer  within  than 
without.  Shorter  than  the  diameter  of  the  cap. 

Ring  or  Annulus — Delicate,  often  disappearing  with  age. 

Flesh — White.     Much  esteemed. 

Spores — Brownish,  elliptical. 

Time — Late  summer  and  autumn. 

Habitat — In  pastures,  lawns,  and  open  places. 

Agaricus  campestris  is  the  mushroom  ordinarily  seen  in  the 
markets,  either  fresh  from  the  growers  or  preserved  in  cans. 

Rodman's   Mushroom    (Edible) 

Agaricus  Rodmani  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  78) 


Sections  of  A.  Rodmani 

Cfcn-p«s'-trfs  R6d-m*n'-I 

76 


Brown-spored  Series 


Cap  or  Pileus — Creamy,  with  brownish  spots.     Firm,  surface  dry. 

Mature  specimens  frequently  have  the  surface  or  the  cap 

broken  into  large,  brownish  scales.    3^  inches  broad. 
Gills  or  Lamella— Whitish,  then  pink,  becoming  dark  brown. 

Narrow,  close,  unequal. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Fleshy,  solid,  short,  thick.    2  inches  long. 
Ring  or  Annulus — Double. 
Spores — Brown. 
Flesh — Firm,  whito,  assuming  a  pinkish  or  salmon  tint.     When 

cut,  agreeable  nutty  flavour. 
Time — May  to  July. 
Habitat—  Grassy  grounds,  crevices  of  unused  pavements.    The 

specimen  photo- 

graphed    was 

found  growing  in 

a  cluster  between 

broken  stone  in 

the  gutter  of  a 

village  street   in 

New  Jersey. 

Agaricus  ab- 
ruptus  (Edible) 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  P.  79) 
Cap  or  Pileus — Creamy 

white,  dry,    and 

silky.      Irregular 

in    shape    when 

young.     Yellow 

when  bruised. 
Gills   or  Lamellae — 

Slightly   pinkish 

when   the    veil 

first   breaks; 

deeper    pink    in 

mature    speci- 
mens, becoming 

brownish.     Soft, 

free    from    the 

stem,    crowded, 

unequal. 
Stem  or  Stipe — Creamy 

white,      deeper 

cream,  or  brown- 
ish near  the  base. 

Hollow,    stiff, 

brittle,  sometimes  Section  of  A.  abmptut 

Xb-rtip'-tSs 
77 


Fungi  with  Gills 

splitting    lengthwise.      Abruptly    bulbous    at    the   base, 

tapering  toward  cap.    3  inches  long. 
Spores  —  Brown. 
Veil  and  Annulus  —  Frail,  part  adhering  to  the  margin  of  the  cap, 

part  forming  a  ring  on  the  stem. 
Flesh  —  White,  solid.    Decided  taste  of  pistachio-nut 
Time  —  September. 
Habitat—  The  specimen  photographed  grew  by  the  trail  along 

Lake  Placid. 

GENUS  HYPHOLOMA 

This  genus  has  brown  spores,  and  no  volva  at  the  base  of 
the  stem.  The  veil  remains  as  a  fringe  attached  to  the  margin 
of  the  pileus,  but  is  not  always  apparent  in  old  specimens  ;  no 
portion  remains  as  a  ring  on  the  stem.  The  gills  are  attached  or 
grown  fast  to  the  stem  at  their  inner  extremity.  In  this  respect, 
and  also  in  having  the  stem  destitute  of  a  collar,  the  genus  differs 
from  the  genus  Agaricus. 

Perplexing  Hypholoma  (Edible) 

lexum  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  82) 


Cap    or    Pileus  —  Convex    or  nearly  plane,   smooth,   sometimes 

slightly  umbonate.     Reddish  or  brownish-red,  fading  to  yel- 

low on  the  margins.    One  to  three  inches  broad. 
Stem  or  Stipe  —  Firm   and   hollow,  slightly    covered   with   fine 

threads.     Whitish  or  yellowish  to  rusty  red  or  red  brown. 

2-3  inches  long. 
Veil  or  Ring  —  Veil  remains  attached  to  the  margin.     No  ring  on 

the  stem. 
Gills  or  Lamella  —  Thin,  crowded,  slightly  rounded  at  the  stem 

end.   At  first  pale  yellow,  then  tinged  with  green  or  purplish 

brown. 

Spores  —  Purplish  brown,  elliptical. 
Flesh  —  Mild,  not  clearly  bitter,  white. 
Time  —  Autumn  to  freezing  weather. 
Habitat  —  Grows  in  clusters,  sometimes  singly,  on  stumps,  in  the 

woods  or  in  the  open. 

Six  allied  species  of  Hypholoma  may  be  readily  distinguished 
by  reference  to  the  table. 


78 


RODMAN'S   MUSHROOM,   YOUNG  (EDIBLE) 
(Agaricus  Rodmani^  Peck.     Reduced) 


RODMAN'S   MUSHROOM,    MATURE   (EDIBLE) 

(Agaricus  Rodmani,  Peck) 
Nat.  size  :  Cap  diam.,  3^  inches  ;  stem  length,  2  inches 


Brown-spored  Series 


Section  of  H.  perplexum 

I— TASTE   MILD  OR  NOT  CLEARLY  BITTER 


H.  epixanthus 
Cray-gllled  Mush- 
room 

H.  capnoides 

H.  perplexum 

Perplexing:  Mush- 
room 

GY//.T—  Yellow,  be- 
coming   grey  ; 
neither  green   nor 
purplish. 

Gills  —  Grey  to  purple- 
brown. 

Gills  —  Yellow,  green, 
or  purple  brown. 

Cap  —  Yellow  or 
slightly  tawny  on 
disk  only. 

Cap  —  Yellow  or 
slightly  tawny  on 
the  disk  only. 

Cap  —  Brick  red,  yel- 
low on  the  margin. 

Taste—  Mild. 

Taste—  Mild. 

Taste  —  Mild  or  not 

clearly  bitter. 

Regarded  as  edible. 

£'-pl-xiln'-thiis                                CXp-noi'-des 

79 


Fungi  with  Gills 


II— TASTE  BITTER 


H.  eleeodes 

H.  fasciculare 
Tufted  Yellow  Mush- 
room 

H.  sublateritium 
Brick-red  Mush- 
room 

Gills—  Green  to  olive. 

Gills—  Yellow   to 
green. 

Gills—  Whitish      to 
sooty  olive. 

Cap—  Brick  red. 

Cap—  Yellow  tinged 
with  tawny. 

Cap—  Brick  red. 

Stem—  Hollow,  rusty. 

Stem—  Hollow,     yel- 
low. 

Stem—  S  olid    or1 
stuffed. 

Flesh  -Yellow. 

Flesh—  Yellow. 

Flesh—  Whitish. 

Taste—  Bitter. 

Taste—  Bitter. 

Taste—  Bitter. 

Reputed  poisonous. 

Formerly  reputed  poi- 
sonous; now  consid- 
ered edible  by  some. 

Uncertain  Hypholoma  (Edible) 

Hypholoma  incertum  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  83) 
(Same  as  H.  appendiculatum) 


Cap  or  Pileus — Thin, 
and  adorned 
with  the  frag- 
ments of  the 
woolly  white  veil. 
Opaque  when 
dry,  transparent 
when  moist. 
Ovate  at  first, 
then  broadly 
spreading.  1-2^ 
inches  wide. 

Gills  or  Lamella — 
Thin,  narrow, 
close ;  fastened  to 
the  stem  at  their 
inner  extremity. 
White  at  first, 
then  purplish 
brown. 

fel'-se-o'-des 


fragile,     whitish.    Margin   often    wavy 


Fasc'-Ic-fi-la'-r* 


Section  of  H.  incertum 
Sito-la-ler-I'-shl-iim         In-cgr'-ttim 


80 


Brown-spored  Series 


Stem  or  Stipe — Hollow,  white,  and  slender.    1-3  inches  long. 

Spores — Purplish  brown,  elliptical. 

Flesh — Tender. 

Time — Throughout  a  moist  season. 

Habitat—In  clusters,  in  lawns,  gardens,  thin  woods,  and  pastures. 

Brick  Top  (Edible) 

Hypholoma  sublateritium  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  86) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Brick  red,  with  pale  yellowish  border.  Surface 
covered  with  fine  silky  fibres.  Fleshy,  firm,  moist.  2^-4 
inches  broad. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Creamy  when  young,  lower  part  slightly  tinged 

with  red. 
Hollow  or 
stuffed.  Silky 
fibres  on  the 
surface.  2>£- 
4  inches  long. 

Gills  or  Lamella — 
Creamy 
when  young, 
olive  when 
old.  Attached 
to  stem  at 
inner  extrem- 
ity. Rather 
n  arrow, 
crowded,  un- 
equal. 

Ring  or  Annulus — 
None.  Rem- 
nants of  veil 
often  seen  on 
edge  of  cap. 

Spores — Brown. 

Flesh — Creamy, 
firm,  bitter. 

Time  —  Septem- 
ber. 

Habitat—  The 
s  p  eci  me  n 
photo- 
graphed 
grew  in  clus- 
ters  on  a 
mossy  stump 

Section  of  H.  sublateritium  in  the  Open. 

Si 


Fungi  with  Gills 


GENUS  STROPHARIA 

There  are  about  seven  species  of  this  genus  in  America.  The 
spores  are  brown,  there  is  no  volva,  the  stem  has  a  collar,  and 
the  lamellae  are  united  with  the  stem.  They  have  no  special 
economic  importance.  Two  species  are  dangerous. 

GENUS  PSATHYRA 

Two  American  species  are  reported  for  this  genus.  The 
spores  are  dark  brown,  there  is  no  volva,  the  veil  is  inconspicu- 
ous or  wanting,  and  the  lamellae  attached  to  the  stem  or  notched 
at  the  inner  extremity.  The  margin  of  the  cap  in  the  young 
plant  and  mature  plant  is  always  sh  aight. 


GENUS  PSILOCYBE 

Eleven  American  species  are  reported  for  this  genus.  The 
spores  are  dark  brown.  There  is  no  volva,  the  veil  is  incon- 
spicuous or  wanting,  and  the  lamellae  are  attached  to  the  stem 
or  notched  at  the  inner  extremity.  In  the  young  plant  the  cap 
curves  in  at  the  margin. 

GENUS  PILOSACE 

This  genus  has  but  one  American  species  recorded.  The 
spores  are  dark  brown.  There  is  no  volva,  and  the  veil  is  incon- 
spicuous or  wanting.  The  lamellae  are  free  from  the  stem. 

GENUS  DECONICA 

But  one  American  species  is  reported.  This  has  dark  brown 
spores,  and  the  lamellae  growing  down  on  the  stem.  The  veil 
is  inconspicuous  or  wanting,  and  there  is  no  volva. 

Str6ph-i'-rf-i  Psa-thy'-rit  PsM5-#'-be 

e  De-cfin'-l-ci 

82 


Agancus  campestri,  L.  (edible). 
Reduced.    See  page  76. 


Agaricus  abruptus,  Pk.  (edible). 
Reduced.    Stem,  3  inches.    See  page  77. 


Perplexing  Hypholoma  (edible). 
(Hypholoma  perplexum,  Pk.)- 
Cap,  1-3  inches;  ^tem,  2-3  inches. 


Rusty-spored  Series 


GENUS  CH1TONIA 

One  American  species  is  reported  in  this  genus,  Clarheinde 
plana,  from  Nebraska.  The  spores  are  brown,  and  the  stem  has 
a  volva  at  the  base,  but  no  ring.  . 


GENUS   PHOLIOTA 

The  members  of  this  genus  have  rusty  spores,  and  an  annulus 
on  the  stem.  There  are  about  twenty  known  species,  and 
some  of  these  are  edible. 


Fat  Pholiota  (Edible) 

Pholiota  adipOSa($EE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  70) 

Cap  orPileus — Showy,  deep  yellow, 
with  little  scales  of  reddish 
brown.  Fleshy,  firm.  At  first 
hemispherical,  then  convex. 
Sticky  when  moist,  shiny  when 
dry.  2-4  inches  broad. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Stem  yellow,  gener- 
ally rusty  at  the  base.  Equal  in 
diameter,  or  slightly  thickened 
at  the  base.  Stuffed  or  solid.  Secti«n  of  P.  adiposa 

Tough.    Two  to  four  inches. 

Gills  or  Lamella— Yellowish,   becoming  rusty  ;  close,   and  at- 
tached to  the  stem. 

King  or  Annulus — Slightly  radiating,  woolly. 

Spores — Rusty  brown. 

Time — September  to  November. 

Habitat—  In  tufts,  on  stumps  or  dead  trunks  of  trees. 

Pholiota  limonella,  lemon-yellow  pholiota,  has  a  smaller, 
thinner,  and  more  expanded  cap,  of  a  lighter  yellow,  with  white 
gills. 

CM-to'-nl-a  Pho-H-o'-ta  Ad-t-p6'-sl 


Fungi  with  Gills 


Early  Pholiota  Edible 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  87) 
Pholiota  prcecox 


Section  of  P.  praecox 


Cap  or  Pileus—Cre&my  white, 
smooth,  not  shining.  Very 
thin  skin.  1-2  inches. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Creamy  white, 
rather  scaly.  Skin  peels 
readily.  Stuffed  or  hollow. 
1-5  inches  long. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Creamy  white 
when  young,  brown  when 
mature.  Soft,  close,  un- 
equal, notched  at  the  inner 
extremity,  and  attached  to 
the  stem. 

Veil  and  Ring — Stretched  like  a 
drumhead  from  stem  to  mar- 
gin of  cap.  Variable  in 
manner  of  parting.  It  some- 
times separates  from  cap 
margin,  and  forms  a  distinct 
ring  about  the  stem ;  again, 
but  little  remains  on  the 
stem,  and  much  on  the  rim 
of  the  cap. 

Spores — Rusty  brown. 

Flesh— White,  solid  though  soft, 
moist.  Taste  slightly  bitter. 

Time — May  to  July. 

Habitat— Grassy  ground.  The 
specimen  pictured  grew 
about  the  roots  of  a  poplar 
tree  in  New  Jersey. 


Pholiota  aggericola 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  74) 

Cap  or  Pileus—  Brown,  shining  when  moist.  Margin  in  older 
specimens  finely  and  closely  impressed  with  parallel  lines. 
Cap  diameter  of  specimen  photographed,  2  inches. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Pale   brownish    when    young,    darker  brown 


Pre'.cox 


Ag-ggr-fc'-o-li 


Rusty-spore d  Series 

mature.     Attached  to  stem  when  young,  free  when 


when 

older. 

Veil—  Pale  brown,  colour  of  stem. 
Stem    or     Stipe — 

Pale   orown- 

ish,  darker  at 

base.     Softer 

texture  with- 
in than  with- 
out. Stem 

length  of 

specimen 

p  h  o  t  o  - 

graphed,     2 

inches. 
Spores  —  R  u  s  ty 

brown. 
Flesh—  Pale 

brownish; 

brittle.       No 

taste     or 

marked 

odour. 
Time— October. 


Section  of  P.  aggericola 


Habitat — Specimen  photographed  grew  among  grass  and  leaves 
in  a  New  Jersey  garden. 


GENUS  CORTINARIUS 

This  genus  contains  many  species  which  are  distinguished 
by  the  rusty  yellow  colour  of  their  spores  and  by  the  webby 
character  of  the  veil.  It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  in  identify- 
ing species  of  Cortinarius  to  know  the  colour  of  the  gills  of  the 
young  plant,  as  the  gills  of  the  old  plants  are  almost  uniform  in 
colour,  owing  to  their  being  dusted  with  the  rusty  yellow  spores. 
In  addition,  one  should  carefully  note  the  colour  of  the  young 
plant  compared  with  the  old;  the  surface,  whether  sticky  or  dry, 
smooth  or  hairy ;  the  taste ;  and  the  markings  left  on  the  stem  by 
the  retreating  veil.  All  species  have  their  gills  attached  to  the 
stem,  and  some  have  them  notched  at  the  stem  end.  They  may 
be  looked  for  along  the  borders  of  woods  and  groves  in  hilly 
regions,  during  the  latter  part  of  the  summer. 

Cor-tf-na'-rf-fis 

85 


Fungi  with  Gills 


albOViolaCGUS  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  71) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Lavender,  paler  in  the  centre.     Surface  with  rusty 

spots.     2j4  inches  broad. 
Gills  or  Lamella — Crowded,  unequal,  attached  to  the  stem. 


B 


C.  violaceus 


Stem  or  Stipe  —  Pale  lavender,  assuming  a  deeper  shade  when  cut 
or  bruised.  Spongy  in  the  centre,  swollen  toward  the  base. 
3  inches  long. 

Veil—  Filmy,  stretching  from  stem  to  the  margin  of  the  cap  in 
young  plant. 

Spores  —  Rusty  brown. 


86 


s:      *     c 


IVORY   HYGROPHORUS  (EDIBLE) 
(tfygropkortts  e&urneus.  Fries) 
Reduced.     Cap  diam.    I  inch;  stem  length,  2%  inches 
See  page  6l 


EARLY  PHQLIQTA  (EDIBLE) 

IPkoliota  jrtrcox,  Pers.) 
Reduced.    Nat.  size:  Cap,  1-2  inches;  stem,  1-5  Inches 


Pink-spored  Series 


Flesh — Tinged  with  violet 

Time — Autumn. 

Habitat — Thick,  damp  woods. 

C.  violaceus  differs  from  c.  alboviolaceus  in  having  the  cap 
dark  violet  and  usually  covered  with  fibres. 

GENUS  PLUTEUS 

The  members  of  the  genus  Pluteus  are  fleshy  fungi  with 
pink  spores,  and  gills  free  from  the  stem.  They  have  no  volva  or 
wrapper  about  the  young  plant,  and  no  ring  or  annulus  on  the 
stem.  Eleven  species  are  known  from  the  United  States,  of 
which  Pluteus  cervinus,  the  fawn-coloured  mushroom,  is  the 
commonest. 

The  generic  name  Pluteus  means  all  that  is  joined  together 
to  make  a  cover  for  besiegers  at  their  work,  that  they  may  be 
screened  from  the  missiles  of  the  enemy.  The  arrangement  of 
the  caps  in  the  group  pictured  is  suggestive  of  the  meaning. 

Fawn-coloured  Pluteus  (Edible) 

Pluteus  cervinus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  94) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Light 

brown  or  fawn 

coloured, 

streaked  with 

lines   of  darker 

brown.     Sur- 
face    dry     and 

shining.      Skin 

thin  and  papery. 

3>£     inches 

broad. 
Gills    or    Lamella — 

Almost      white 

when   young, 

flesh   colour 

when  mature. 

Broad,  unequal 

in   length,   free 

from  the  stem. 
Stem    or    Stipe — 

Creamy  white,  P.  cervinus 


Fungi  with  Gills 

streaked  with  pale  brown.    Brittle,  pithy  in  the  centre  when 

mature.     3-6  inches  long. 

Spores — Pink,  with  suggestions  of  yellow;  salmon  colour. 
Flesh — White,  tasteless. 
Time — Early  in  the  season,  May. 
Habitat — Mixed  woods,  on  and  around  old  stumps.     New  Jersey. 

GENUS  ENTOLOMA 

The  members  of  this  genus  have  pink  spores,  and  the 
lamellae  attached  to  the  stem,  or  with  a  notch  near  the  junction 
of  gill  and  stem.  The  stem  is  fleshy,  and  not  tough  and  hard  as 
in  Leptonia  and  Nolanea,  genera  with  pink  spores  and  adnate 
or  sinuate  lamellae.  There  are  some  twelve  species  in  this  genus, 
none  of  which  have  any  economic  interest,  while  at  least  four  are 
dangerous. 

GENUS  ECCILIA 

The  members  of  the  genus  Eccilia  have  neither  volva  nor 
annulus.  The  gills  grow  downward  on  the  stem,  the  spores  are 
pink,  and  the  stems  have  a  hard,  tough  rind,  not  fleshy  as  in 
Clitopilus.  There  are  three  species  known  in  America. 

GENUS  YOLVARIA 

The  members  of  the  genus  Volvaria  are  fleshy  fungi,  soon 
becoming  putrescent.  The  spores  are  salmon  colour.  A  volva 
is  present,  but  no  annulus.  Distinguished  from  Amanitopsis  by 
having  salmon-coloured  spores  instead  of  white. 

GENUS  CLITOPILUS 

The  members  of  this  group  have  neither  volva  nor  annu- 
lus. The  gills  grow  downward  on  the  stem,  the  spores  are 
pink,  and  the  stem  is  fleshy,  without  a  hard  and  tough  rind  as 
in  Eccilia.  There  are  fourteen  American  species,  of  which  at 
least  two  species  are  edible. 

£n-tS-16'-mi  N6-li'-n«-4  fec^Il'-l-i 

L«p-to-nI-4  V61-va'-!Ml  CH-t8-plMtts 

88 


Black-spored  Series 

GENUS  COPRINUS 
Ink  Caps  (Edible) 

The  genus  Coprinus  may  be  readily  recognised  from  the 
fact  that  the  spore-bearing  plates  dissolve  to  an  inky  fluid  soon 
after  the  spores  mature. 

An  amateur  mushroom  hunter  may  feel  perfectly  safe  in  col- 
lecting ink  caps  for  his  table,  as  all  the  species  large  enough  to 
tempt  the  collector  are  not  only  edible,  but  are  generally  conceded 
to  be  of  the  best. 

Their  general  appearance  is  such  that  even  the  most  un- 
trained observer  should  not  mistake  them  for  species  of  other 
groups. 

The  oblong  or  nearly  cylindrical  cap,  which  does  not  expand 
until  ready  to  dissolve  in  inky  drops,  is  too  striking  a  character- 
istic to  permit  of  any  one  making  a  mistake  in  identifying  it  as 
a  specimen  safe  to  eat. 

These  plants  literally  grow  up  in  a  night  and  perish  in  a 
day,  as  their  period  of  growth  is  spent  underground,  and  it  is 
not  until  all  the  parts  of  the  fruiting  portions  of  the  plants  are 
fully  developed  that  they  push  themselves  above  ground.  Then 
they  push  and  crowd  from  the  ground  in  such  numbers,  where 
but  a  few  hours  before  no  evidence  of  them  was  seen,  that  each 
one  is  compressed  from  its  cylindrical  form  to  that  of  a  many- 
sided  prism,  so  that  there  would  be  no  chance  for  the  expansion 
of  those  within  the  group  if  it  were  not  that  those  on  the  outer 
rim  so  rapidly  expand  and  dissolve  away. 

Specimens  to  be  eaten  should  be  gathered  in  the  young 
stage  and  should  be  cooked  promptly;  for  though  not  poisonous 
in  the  black  stage,  they  are  surely  not  attractive. 

Shelley  must  have  had  the  ink  caps  in  mind  when  he  wrote 
of  the  fungi  in  the  garden  of  "The  Sensitive  Plant": 


1  Their  mass  rotted  off  them  flake  by  flake, 
Till  the  thick  stalk  stuck  like  a  murderer's  stake, 
Where  rags  of  loose  flesh  yet  tremble  on  high, 
Infecting  th«  winds  that  wander  by." 

Co-pri'-ntis 
89 


Fungi  with  Gills 

Shaggy-mane;    Horsetail;    Maned  Agaric 
(Edible) 

Coprinus  COmatuS   (SEE  PAGES  iii,  v,  viii) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Cylindrical  or  barrel-shaped ;  becoming  bell-shaped 
or  expanded,  with  split  margins,  when  old.  Colour  of  the 
buttons  or  young  plants  dark ;  but  that  of  the  older  forms 
white,  flecked  with  dark  patches  or  scales.  Surface  shaggy. 
i  YZ-J  inches  long  before  expansion. 

Stem  or  Stipe — White,  smooth,  hollow.     3-4  inches  long. 

Ring  or  Annulus — Slightly  adherent,  or  movable  in  the  young 
plant ;  later  lying  on  the  ground  at  the  base  of  the  stem, 
or  wholly  disappearing. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Crowded.  White,  then  tinged  with  pink  ; 
finally  black,  and  dripping  an  inky  fluid. 

Spores — Black,  elliptical. 

Flesh — Fragile,  tender,  digestible,  with  nutty  flavour. 

Time — Autumn. 

Habitat — Loose,  rich  earth.  By  roadsides,  in  pastures,  and  in 
dumping  grounds. 

If  one  study  the  specimens  of  the  shaggy-mane  from  the 
time  it  pushes  its  little  brown  head  above  the  ground  until,  as  a 
tall  black  umbrella,  it  melts  away  into  inky  blackness,  he  will 
find  much  that  is  beautiful  and  interesting. 

A  little  brown  button  may  be  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  through- 
out its  length  to  show  the  unexpanded  gills  lying  close  to  the 
part  which  is  afterwards  to  become  the  stem. 

An  older  button  cut  in  the  same  way  will  show  the  gills 
separated  from  the  stem  and  the  outer  cover  of  the  cap  at  the 
lower  end  of  the  gills  joined  to  the  stem.  A  still  older  specimen 
will  show  the  connection  of  the  outer  cover  broken  loose  from 
the  base  of  the  gill  and  the  torn  part  still  remaining  on  the  stem 
as  a  temporary  collar. 

The  outer  layer  of  brown  threads  which  covers  the  button 
will  be  found  to  break  as  the  threads  within  expand,  and  to  re- 
main in  the  older  specimens  on  the  surface  as  patches  of  brown 
threads.  Underlying  these  are  broken  white  threads  which  in  a 
younger  stage,  unbroken,  formed  a  white  cover  under  the  brown. 
It  is  these  loosely  hanging  threads  which  give  the  shaggy  ap- 
pearance to  the  cap  of  the  mature  plants  and  which  have 
suggested  the  names  of  shaggy-mane,  horsetails,  and  comatus 
(comatus,  in  Latin,  meaning  hairy). 

Co-ma' -tus 


Mycena  haematopoda,  Pers. 


See' page  55. 


fc    a 


ZONED  CORTINARIUS 

(Cortinarius  armillalus,  A.  &  S.,  Fr.) 

Cap  cinnamon-brown;  gills  paler  than  cap;  stem  light  brown  with  fibrous  zones  of  red.     See  Genus,  p.  85 


Black-spored  Series 

Inky  Coprinus  (Edible) 

Coprinus  atramentarius 

Cap  or  Pileus — Cylindrical  at  first,  broadening  by  degrees  until  it 
is  cone-shaped.  Colour  greyish  or  greyish  brown,  with  sug- 
gestions of  lead  colour.  Smooth  or  with  a  few  obscure 
scales  on  the  disk.  Often  suffused  with  bloom.  The  mar- 
gin sometimes  notched  or  lobed.  Deliquescing.  1-3  inches 
in  diameter. 

Stem  or  Stipe—  Slender,  smooth,  whitish,  hollow;  2-4  inches. 

Ring  or  Annulus — A  slight  vestige  of  one  may  be  seen  to  extend 
around  the  stem  near  the  base  as  an  irregular  zigzag  ele- 
vated line  of  threads. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Crowded.  At  first  whitish  and  flpcculose  on 
the  edges,  then  black,  moist,  dropping  away  in  inky  fluid. 

Spores — Black,  elliptical. 

Flesh — White,  quickly  deliquescing. 

Time — Autumn. 

Habitat—  Rich  soil,  waste  places,  woods. 

The  form  growing  in  the  woods  is  much  more  beautiful  and 
is  known  as  C.  atramentarius,  var.  silvestris.  See  plate  facing 
page  95; 

Glistening  Coprinus  (Edible) 

Coprinus  micaceus 

Cap  or  Pileus — Ovate,  then  bell-shaped.  Striations  radiating 
from  near  the  centre  of  the  disk  to  the  margin.  Glistening 
mica-like  scales  cover  undisturbed  young  specimens.  1-2 
inches  broad.  Colour  tan,  light  buff,  or  tawny  yellow. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Slender,  smooth,  fragile,  white,  hollow.  1-3  inches 
long. 

Ring  or  Annulus — Rarely  seen  except  in  very  young  specimens. 

Gills  or  Lamellae — Not  as  crowded  as  in  the  ink  cap  and  shaggy- 
mane.  Colour  white,  then  tinged  with  pinkish  or  purplish 
brown,  finally  black. 

Spores — Brown,  elliptical. 

Flesh — A  nutty  flavour  when  raw.  In  wet  weather  it  melts  to 
an  inky  fluid.  In  dry  weather  it  may  dry  with  all  parts 
well  preserved. 

Time — Common  during  spring  and  early  autumn. 

The  glistening  coprinus  is  small  and  beautiful,  and  grows  in 
clusters  on  decaying  woods,  stumps,  or  buried  roots. 

Xt'-riUmen-ta'-rf-fls  Ml-ca'-ye-iis 

9« 


Fungi  with  Gills 


GENUS  GOMPHIDIUS 


This  genus  has  black  spores.  The  lamellae  are  waxy,  and 
grow  downward  on  the  stem. 

GENUS  PSATHYRELLA 

The  members  of  this  genus  are  fleshy  fungi,  with  black 

spores.    They  have  no  annulus,  and  the  lamellae  are  not  waxy 

or  decurrent.    The  cap  is  striate,  and  the  stem  has  a  hard, 
tough  rind. 

GENUS  PAN&OLUS 

There  are  six  or  more  species  of  this  genus  in  America. 
They  have  black  ovoid  spores,  a  cap  smooth  and  not  striate,  a 
fleshy  stem.  Some  species  are  very  dangerous. 

GENUS  LACTARIUS 

A  milky  or  coloured  juice  exuding  from  the  broken  gills  of  a 
fungus  marks  it  as  a  Ladarius.  The  species  are  mostly  stout 
and  fleshy,  the  cap  resembling  an  inverted  cone;  the  gills  are 
more  or  less  decurrent,  and  the  stem  short  and  stout.  Many  of 
the  species  have  a  hot,  acrid  taste,  and  some  have  zones  of  colour 
on  the  surface  of  the  cap.  The  spores  are  white  or  yellow.  The 
juice  exuded  may  be  white  or  orange  or  blue.  No  less  than  eight 
species  are  dangerous. 

Peppery  Lactarius  (Dangerous) 

Ladarius  piperatus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  103) 

Cap  or  Pileus—  Creamy  white,  fleshy,  firm,  depressed  in  the  cen- 
tre. Dry,  never  viscid,  and  uncommonly  broad.  3-8  inches 
in  diameter. 

Gills  or  Lamella— Creamy  white,  narrow,  crowded,  unequal, 
forked,  decurrent.  Exuding  a  milky  juice  when  bruised. 
Milk  white. 

Stem  or  Stipe— Creamy  white,  short,  thick,  solid,  rounded  at  and 
slightly  tapering  toward  the  base.  One  to  two  inches. 

Gton-phld'-Ms  Sa-thy-rifl'-ia 

LJtc-ta-rf-us  PJp^r-a'-ttis 

92 


Fungi  with  Milky  Juice 


L.  pioeratu* 


Veil  and  Annulus — None. 

Spores— White. 

Flesh— Slightly  paler  than  the  surface  of  the  cap.  Taste  very  pep- 
pery. Odour  quite  aromatic. 

Time — Summer. 

Habitat—  Specimen  pictured  was  found  in  mixed  woods,  among 
dried  leaves  and  sticks,  in  New  Jersey. 

Lactarius  ligniotus 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  90) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Fleshy ;  brown  velvety  surface  ;  convex  to  plane; 
brittle. 

Gills  or  Lamella — Attached  to  the  stem,  distant,  unequal.  Snow 
white  to  yellowish  white.  Milk  mild  and  white. 

Stem  and  Stipe — The  upper  part  the  same  colour  as  the  cap  surface, 
base  lighter  ;  hollow. 

Ring  or  Annulus — None. 

Spores—  White. 

Flesh — Taste  pleasant.  Broken  flesh  reddish  white,  then  yellow- 
ish. 

Time — September. 

Habitat — Common  among  mosses  under  fir  trees.  The  specimen 
pictured  was  found  growing  in  mixed  woods  at  Lake  Placid. 

Llg-nK-o'-ttis 
93 


CHAPTER  VI:  FUNGI  WITH  TEETH— 
HYDNACE/E 

THE  fungi  with  teeth  are  so  called  because,  instead  of  bear- 
ing their  spores  on  the  surface  of  gills  and  pores,  they  bear 
them  on  the  surface  of  awl-shaped  teeth,  which  project  down- 
ward. The  genera  of  the  family  Hydnacece  are  distinguished 
by  the  size,  shape,  and  attachment  of  the  teeth.  Plants  with 
teeth  only,  and  no  basal  membrane,  make  the  genus  Mucronella. 
Plants  with  flattened,  leaf-like  teeth  attached  to  a  leathery  mem- 
brane, growing  on  wood,  either  in  the  form  of  a  cap,  or  simply 
spreading  over  the  host,  make  the  genus  Irpex.  Plants  with 
thick,  blunt,  irregular  spines  make  the  genus  Radulum.  Fleshy 
or  membranous  plants  with  caps  and  flattened  teeth,  growing  on 
the  ground,  make  the  genus  Sistotrema.  Plants  which  spread 
over  their  host,  closely  attached  to  its  surface,  and  have  simple, 
bristle-like  teeth,  make  the  genus  Pycnodon.  Plants  growing 
in  a  manner  similar  to  those  of  the  genus  Pycnodon,  but  having 
low-crested  wrinkles  instead  of  bristles,  make  the  genus 
Phlebia  ;  while  those  with  smooth  hemispherical  warts  make 
the  genus  Grandinia,  and  those  with  crested  papillose  warts 
make  the  genus  Odontium.  The  typical  genus  Hydnum  has  the 
teeth  cylindrical,  so  that  a  cross  section  would  appear  circular. 
This  is  the  only  large  genus,  and  in  it  are  found  several  impor- 
tant edible  species.  These  may  be  put  in  two  groups,  one  con- 
taining the  species  with  a  cap  and  central  stem,  and  one  the 
species  growing  in  branched  masses  with  no  distinct  cap.  These 
are  commonly  known  as  Hedgehog  Mushrooms. 


fr'-p&c  Sfa-to-tre'-mS  Phlgb-l'-S 

MS-cro-nfl'-li  RM'-fi-lfim  Pyc'-n8-dfin  Grita-di'-nlUi 

S-dfint'-J-fim  H^d'-nfim 

94 


5  f 


3    O 


Genus  Hydautn 


GENUS  HYDNUM 
Spreading  Hydnum  (Edible) 

Hydnum  repandum  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  in) 

Cap  or  Pileus— Fleshy,  fragile,  moist,  smooth  or  somewhat 
scaly  in  mature  specimens.  Variable  in  colour ;  light  red, 
pale  buff,  or  rusty  yellow.  Convex,  plane,  or  deeply  con- 
cave by  the  stem  becoming 
hollow.  Margins  often  wavy. 
1-4  inches  broad. 

Teeth  or  Aculei—  Pointed,  whitish, 
easily  detached,  leaving  little 
cavities  in  the  fleshy  cap. 

Stem  or  Stipe— Stem  solid  in  young 
specimens,  hollow  in  older 
specimens.  Surface  rather 
rough  ;  often  eccentric.  1-3 
inches  long. 

./r/^—Watery,  lighter  colour  than 
cap. 

Spores— Whitish. 

Time— July  to  October. 

Habitat— Woods  and  open  places. 
Singly  or  in  clusters.  The  speci- 
men pictured  was  found  in 
North  Carolina  in  February. 


Section  of  H.  repandum 


Hydnum  rufescens  (edible)  is  redder  than  the  typical  form, 
is  smaller  and  more  regular. 


White  Hydnum  (Edible) 

Hydnum  albidum 

Cap  or  Pileus— White,  fleshy.     1-2  inches  broad. 

Teeth  or  Aculei—  White,  short. 

Stem  or  Stipe— White,  solid,  short.     1-2  inches  long. 

Flesh— White. 

Time—]une  to  August. 

Habitat— Thin,  wet  woods. 


Re.pin'-dfim 


Ru-feV-s«ns 
95 


Xl.bf.dfim 


Fungi  with  Teeth — Hydnaceae 


Hydnum  imbricatum 


Cap  or  Pileus — Brownish,  as  if 
scorched.  Surface  cracked  in 
irregular  scales.  6-7  inches 
wide. 

Teeth— Bluish  grey. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Short  and  thick,  with 

H.  imbricatum  ...    1™$***  &™kS' 

Flesh — Whitish. 

Time — Late  summer. 
ffabitat—Dry  woods. 

Bear's-head  Hydnum  (Edible) 

Hydnum  caput-ursi  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  106) 
Plant—  White,  fleshy. 

Branches  and  Teeth— Short  branches   covered   with  awl-shaped 
teeth  of  varying  length,  pointed  toward  the  ground. 


Section  of  H.  caput-ursi 

FUsk — White  when  young,  creamy  when  old. 

ffa&itat—Qn  prostrate  or  standing  tree  trunks  of  decaying  de- 
ciduous trees.  Erect,  if  on  the  upper  side;  ascending  or 
pendulous  or  both,  if  on  the  side  of  the  trunk. 

The  bear's-head  hydnum  is  very  variable  in  form.      The 

u 

Im-brf-ca'-ttim  Ci'-pttt-tir'-sl 

96 


Genus  Hydnum 

essential  character  is  a  solid,  fleshy  body  with  short  protecting 
branches  bearing  numerous  simple  or  branched  teeth,  which 
may  vary  in  length  from  one-sixth  of  an  inch  to  two  inches, 

Medusa's    Head    (Edible) 

Hydnum  caput-medusce 

Hydnum  caput-medusce  has  knob-like  branches,  with  short, 
distorted  teeth  above,  and  long,  uniform  ones  below.  At  first  it 
is  white,  but  later  changes  to  a  smoky  or  ash  colour.  The  change 
in  colour  from  white  to  an  ashy  tint  distinguishes  it  from  H. 
caput-ursi,  which  changes  to  creamy  white. 

Hedgehog    Hydnum  (Edible) 

Hydnum  echinaceus 

The  hedgehog  hydnum  is  white  at  first,  and  then  creamy. 
The  branches  are  knob-like,  and  bear  numerous  straight,  equal 
teeth  about  two  inches  long. 

Coral  Hydnum  (Edible) 

Hydnum  coralloides 

Plant — Pure  white,  becoming  creamy  with  age. 

Branches  and  Teeth — Numerous,  spreading,  angular  or  flattened. 
Terminal  branches  often  curved  upwards,  terminating  in  a 
crowded  mass  of  spines.  Teeth,  %-*/$  of  an  inch  long. 

Stem — Short,  dividing  into  branches  almost  from  the  base. 

Flesh — Tender,  white,  with  agreeable  taste. 

Time— July  to  October. 

Habitat— Qn.  prostrate  trees  in  mountainous  or  hilly  country. 

When  a  mere  child,  Elias  Fries  was  so  attracted  by  this  beau- 
tiful coral-like  fungus,  which  grew  in  his  native  forests  in  Sweden, 
that  he  was  led  to  take  up  the  study  of  fungi,  and  later  became 
one  of  the  most  prominent  students  in  that  branch  of  botany, 
and  laid  the  foundation  for  the  study  of  the  Basidiomycetes. 

Ca'-pfit-me-du'-sae  Ech-I-na'^g-tis  CSr-ai-loi'-des 

7  97 


CHAPTER    VII:    FAIRY   CLUBS    AND    CORAL 
FUNGI— CLAVARIACE^ 

THE  fairy  clubs  and  coral  fungi  belong  to  the  family  Clava- 
riacece.  They  are  fleshy  fungi  of  upright  growth,  which  hava 
their  spore-bearing  surface  exposed  on  the  apices  of  branching 
or  simple  club-like  forms.  Many  are  extremely  beautiful,  re- 
sembling corals  of  exquisite  shades  of  pink,  violet,  yellow,  or 
white. 

The  seven  genera  are  distinguished  by  the  colour  of  the 
spores,  by  their  habit  of  growth — whether  simple  or  branched, 
and,  if  branching,  by  the  form  of  the  branches ;  whether  club- 
like  or  thread-like,  flat  or  round,  cartilaginous  or  leathery.  Many 
of  the  members  of  this  family  are  edible,  and  none  are  known  to 
be  unwholesome,  so  that  it  will  be  safe  for  a  beginner  to  try  any 
of  them. 

GENUS  PHYSALACRIA 

Plant  small,  simple,  hollow,  and  enlarged  at  the  apex. 

GENUS  PISTILLAR1A 

Plants  conspicuous,  club-shaped  or  thread-like,  with  two 
spicules  to  each  spore-bearing  cell. 

GENUS  TYPHULA 

Plants  conspicuous,  club-shaped  or  thread-like,  with  four 
spicules  to  each  spore-bearing  cell. 

Cliv'-ar'-J-a'-9g-a          Phys-a-la'-crf-a          Pfe-tlUa'-rf-i          T^ph'-u-l* 


Genus  Clavaria 

GENUS  SPARASSIS 

Plants  conspicuous,  with  the  branches  strongly  flattened  or 
leaf-like. 

Sparassis  crispa  somewhat  resembles  a  yellow  cauliflower, 
and  often  forms  masses  as  large  as  one's  hand.  It  is  considered 
an  excellent  fungus  for  the  table. 

GENUS  PTERULA 

The  members  of  this  genus  are  mostly  slender,  thread-like 
forms,  cartilaginous  when  moist,  and  horny  when  dry. 

GENUS   LACHNOCLADIUM 

The  members  of  this  genus  are  leathery  plants  covered  with 
hairs. 

GENUS  CLAVARIA 

The  genus  Clavaria  is  the  largest  genus  in  the  family  Cla-va- 
riacece.  Many  of  the  species  are  edible,  and  so  easily  recognised 
that  the  beginner  may  venture  without  hesitation  to  eat  any  of 
the  branching  forms.  The  club-like  forms  might  be  mistaken 
for  certain  club-shaped  forms  of  the  sac-fungi  unless  an  examina- 
tion of  the  spores  were  made.  The  Clavarias  would  have  the 
spores  on  little  spicules,  as  in  the  garden  mushroom,  whereas 
the  forms  for  which  they  might  be  mistaken  would  have  them 
in  membranous  sacs. 

In  collecting  species  of  Clavaria,  notes  should  be  taken  as 
to  the  character  of  the  apices  of  the  branches,  the  colour  of 
the  branches,  the  colour  of  the  spores,  the  taste,  and  the  place 
of  growth. 

Pale  Yellow  Clavaria  (Edible) 

Clavaria  flaw 

Plant—  White  and  pale  yellow.     2-5  inches  high  ;  the  mass  of 
branches  2-5  inches  wide. 

Spa-ras'-sls     Crfs'-p*     TSr'-ti-la     Lak-nS-cla'-df-um     Clay-ar-l-a"      Flav'-i 

99 


Fairy  Clubs  and  Coral  Fungi— Clavariaceae 

Branches — Round,  not  flattened;  smooth,  crowded,  and  nearly 
parallel,  pointing  upward.  Whitish  or  yellowish,  with  pale 
yellow  tips.  Branchlets  terminating  in  from  one  to  three 
blunt,  tooth-like  points. 

Stem — Short,  thick,  white. 

Spores — Yellowish. 

Flesh— White,  tender. 

Time— July  to  September. 

JSfetfta*-— Thin  woods  and  open  places. 

Golden  Clavaria  (Dangerous) 

Clavaria  aurea  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  91) 

The 'plant  is  from  three  to  four  inches  high,  with  the 
branches  of  a  uniform  deep  golden  yellow,  and  often  longitudi- 
nally wrinkled.  The  stem  is  stout,  but  thinner  than  the  Clavaria 
flaw,  which  it  somewhat  resembles. 

Red-tipped  Clavaria  (Edible) 

Clavaria  botrytes 

Plant — From  2-5  inches  high,  whitish  or  yellow  or  pinkish,  with 

the  tips  of  the  branches  red. 
Branches  —  Sometimes      longitudinally     wrinkled,     repeatedly 

branched. 

Stem — Short,  thick,  fleshy,  whitish. 
Time — July  to  September. 
Habitat — Thin  woods  and  open  places. 

Crested  Clavaria  (Edible) 

Clavaria  cristata 

Plant—  Small,  not  more  than  2-2^  inches  high.  White  or 
whitish,  often  faintly  tinged  with  dull  pink,  or  creamy  yel- 
low, or  smoky  tints. 

Branches — Widened  and  flattened  above,  and  deeply  cut  into 
several  finger-like  points,  which  may  turn  blackish  brown 
when  old. 

Stem — Slender,  spongy  within. 

Spores— White. 

Habitat — Woods  and  open  places,  especially  in  cool,  shady,  moist 
places. 

Au'-r*-*  B6-try'-tes  Crfs-ta'-t4 

109 


Genus  Clavaria 

Pistil  Clavaria;  Large  Club  (Edible) 

Clavaria  pistillaris 

Of  the  club-shaped  clavarias,  the  pistil  clavaria  is  the 
largest.  It  is  of  a  light  yellow  tinged  with  brown  or  red,  and 
with  soft  white  flesh.  In  shape  it  resembles  an  Indian  club, 
being  blunt  and  rounded  at  the  summit,  with  a  diameter  of  an 
inch  or  less,  and  a  height  of  five  inches  or  less.  It  is  found 
during  the  summer  in  grassy  open  places  or  in  thin  woods. 

Clavaria  fellea 

The  clubs  of  this  species  are  about  one  inch  high,  light  yellow 
tinged  with  brown  or  red,  somewhat  divided  by  pairs  from 
bottom  to  top  into  two  forked  branches.  The  stem  is  round  and 
solid,  and  the  branches  are  crowded  and  nearly  parallel,  with 
blunt  tips,  and  of  a  uniform  colour.  The  taste  is  bitter. 

Clavaria  formOSa  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  no) 

The  Clavaria  formosa  has  a  stout  whitish  stem,  with  erect 
branches,  dividing  and  subdividing  repeatedly,  golden  to  pink, 
the  branchlets  obtuse.  The  specimen  pictured  grew  on  a  fallen 
tree  in  dense  mixed  woods. 

Pls'-tn-la'-ris  F«l'-le-i  F6r-mo'-s4 


YOI 


CHAPTER  VIII:    FUNGI  WITH  PORES— 
BOLETACE^;  POLYPORACE>E 

THE  fungi  with   pores  naturally  divide  into  two  groups. 
The  perishable  fleshy  fungi  with  pores  easily  separating  from 
the  cap  and  from  each  other  make  the  family  Boletacecz.     The 
perishable  fleshy  fungi,  and  the  leathery,  corky,  membranous 
or  woody  fungi,  with  pores  permanently  united  to  the  cap  and 
to   each    other,    make  up   the    family   Poly- 
poracece.      In  each  the  spores  are  borne  on 
the    linings  of  pores  or  tubes  placed   close 
Section  of  a  Boletus  together>  so  that  on  the  surface  of  the  cap  they 
look  much  like  large  pin   pricks  on  a  stiff 
cushion  ;  but  in  a  sectional  view,  obtained  by  cutting  the  cap 
from  the  upper  surface  to  the  lower,  they  look  like  tubes  placed 
side  by  side. 

Among  the  fleshy  forms  the  genus  Fistulina  has  the  stem 
lateral  and  the  tubes  close  together,  but  distinct  from  each  other. 
The  genus  Boletus  has  the  tubes  easily  separable  from  the  cap, 
and  the  genera  Boletinus  and  Strobilomyces  have  the  tubes  quite 
firmly  connected.  A  brief  comparison  of  essential  points  is 
given  in  the  table. 

1.  Stem  strictly  lateral.     Mouths  of  the  tubes  separated  from 

each  other Genus  FISTULINA 

2.  Stem  central.     Pores  readily  separating  from  the  cap Genus  BOLETUS 

3.  Stem  central  or  eccentric  ;  fleshy.     Pores  in  more  or  less 

radiating  rows Genus  BOLETINUS 

4.  Stem  central,  tough.     Pores  uniform.     Cap  woody Genus  STROBILOMYCES 

GENUS  FISTULINA 

The  genus  Fistulina  contains  one  notable  species,  Fistulina 
hepatica,  so  called  from  its  resemblance  to  a  liver.  In  its  early 
stages  it  somewhat  resembles  a  strawberry,  and  later  it  may 

tfo-le'-ta'-??-*  FIs-ta-ir-n5  B6-lg-ti'-nfis 

P6'-ly-p6-ra'-9S-ae  B6-le'-tfis  Stro-bll-o'-my'-jes 

102 


PEPPERY   LACTARIUS 
(Lactariu!  piperatvs,  Scop.     Nat.  size).     Cap,  3-12  inches 





PEPPERY   LACTARIUS 
(•T.actarius  fiperatus^  Scop.     Nat.  size) 


Genus  Boletinus 

have  the  appearance  of  a  big  red  tongue  protruding  from  a  tree 
trunk,  so  that  the  French  call  it  langue  de  boeuf.  It  is  often 
called  vegetable  beefsteak,  from  the  flesh-like  fibre  and  colour  of 
the  fresh  specimens.  When  young,  the  upper  side  is  velvety 
and  of  a  fine  peach  colour  ;  later  it  becomes  liver  red  and  loses 
the  velvety  appearance  ;  the  under  surface  is  flesh  coloured,  and 
is  rough,  much  like  the  surface  of  a  tongue,  owing  to  the  fact 
that  the  tubes  are  free  from  one  another. 

GENUS  BOLETINUS 

The  spore-bearing  surface  of  the  genus  Boletinus  is  com- 
posed of  broad,  radiating  lamellae  connected  by  numerous  nar- 
row partitions  so  as  to  form  large  angular  pores.  The  tubes  are 
not  easily  separable  from  each  other  and  from  the  portion  on 
which  they  are  borne.  They  are  yellowish  in  colour,  and  grow 
downward  somewhat  on  the  stem.  The  genera  may  be  distin- 
guished by  the  following  table: 

1 .  Stem  hollow BOLETINUS  CAVIPES 

2.  Stem  solid,  lateral,  or  eccentric BOLETINUS  POROSUS 

3.  Stem  solid,  central.    Cap  pale  yellow  and  silky BOLETINUS  DECIPIENS 

4.  Stem  solid,  central.     Cap  red BOLETINUS  PALUSTER 

5.  Stem  solid,  central.    Cap  with  red  scales BOLETINUS  PICTUS 

Painted  Boletinus  (Edible) 

Boletinus  pictus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  m) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Convex  or  nearly  plane;  at  first  covered  with  red 
matted  fibres,  which  soon  divide  into  small  scales,  so  as  to 
reveal  the  yellow  colour  of  the  cap  beneath.  2-4  inches  wide. 

Tubes — Pale  yellow,  or  pale  yellow  tinged  with  brown.  Not 
easily  separated  from  the  cap. 

Veil—  Webby,  concealing  the  tubes  of  the  young  plant. 

Stem  or  Stipe — Solid,  with  scales  and  colour  similar  to  those  of  the 
cap.  i  %-"$  inches  long. 

Ring  or  Annulus. — Webby;  evident  in  some  specimens. 

Spores — Pale  yellow  tinged  with  brown. 

Flesh — Yellowish,  often  assuming  reddish  tints  when  bruised. 

Habitat—  Woods  and  mossy  swamps. 

Civ'-I-pes  Po-ro'-sfis  De-9lp'-l-ens  Pa-l&s'-teV  Pfc'-tfis 

103 


Fungi  with  Pores — Boletaceae 

GENUS  BOLETUS 

The  species  in  the  genus  Boletus  are  numerous,  and  many 
are  extremely  beautiful.  They  are  distinguished  from  the  other 
pore-bearing  fungi  by  the  fact  that  their  tubes  are  easily  separable 
from  each  other  and  from  the  portion  on  which  they  are  borne. 

They  are  to  be  looked  for  in  the  warmest  part  of  the  season, 
and  with  a  few  exceptions  will  be  found  on  the  ground.  As  it 
is  difficult  to  dry  specimens  so  that  they  will  retain  their  size, 
shape,  and  colour,  careful  notes  should  be  taken  of  these  points, 
together  with  the  colour  of  the  spores,  the  colour  of  the  tubes, 
the  colour  of  the  flesh  before  and  after  being  bruised,  the  char- 
acter of  the  stem,  the  presence  or  absence  of  hairs  and  fibres  on 
the  several  parts  of  the  plant.  The  genus  Boletus  contains  many 
edible  species,  and  also  many  which  are  dangerous ;  and  as  the 
recognition  of  the  different  species  is  a  difficult  matter,  even  for 
experts,  the  beginner  should  be  especially  cautious.  In  general 
it  will  be  well  to  avoid  for  edible  purposes  all  Boleti  which 
change  colour  on  exposure  to  the  air  or  on  being  pressed;  all 
those  which  have  red-mouthed  tubes,  or  mouths  of  a  deeper 
colour  than  the  rest  of  the  tube ;  and  all  those  with  a  peppery  or 
acrid  taste.  Experiment  cautiously  with  the  other  species. 

A  detailed  description  of  the  species  is  out  of  the  question  in 
this  book;  for  such  the  reader  must  refer  to  "  Boleti  of  the  United 
States,"*  or  to  "  Fuhrer  fur  Pilzfreunde."f 


Boletus  glabelius 

Cap — Smoky  yellow. 

Flesh — White,  changing  to  blue  when  wounded. 

Tubes — Brownish  yellow  tinged  with  green,  changing  to  blue 

when  wounded. 
Stem— Reddish  at  the  base,  pallid  above,  with  a  narrow  reddish 

circumscribing  %one  or  line  at  the  top. 
Habitat — Grassy  ground. 

Gla-beT-liis 

*  Bulletin,  New  York  State  Museum,  No.  8,  1888.  This  can  be  obtained 
at  a  small  price  of  the  State  Librarian  at  Albany,  New  York.  In  it  are  described 
one  hundred  and  ten  species. 

f  By  Edmund  Michael.  A  book  in  German,  with  sixty-eight  coloured  plates. 

104 


Genus  Boletus 

Boletus  bicolor 

Cap—  Dark  red,  fading  when  old;  often  marked  with  yellow;  2-4 

inches. 

Flesh—  Yellow,  slowly  changing  to  blue  when  wounded. 
Tubes—  Bright  yellow,  changing  to  blue. 
Stem—  Solid,  red,  generally  yellow  at  the  top;  1-3  inches. 
Habitat— Woods  and  open  places.     Common  in  Va.  and  Md. 
One  of  the  best  edible  species. 

Boletus    cyanescens 

Cap — Pale  buff  or  greyish  yellow.     Covered  with  woolly  scales, 

two-fifths  of  an  inch  wide. 

Flesh — White,  quickly  changing  to  blue  when  wounded. 
Tubes — White,    becoming    yellowish,    changing  to  blue  when 

bruised. 
Stem — Coloured  like  the  cap.   Swollen,  stuffed,  not  covered  with 

a  network. 
Habitat — Woods  and  open  places. 

Boletus   pallidus 

Cap — Pallid  or  brownish  white,  sometimes  tinged  with  red. 
Flesh— White. 

Tubes — Pale  whitish  yellow,  changing  to  blue  when  wounded. 
Stem — Long  and   whitish,   sometimes   streaked  with    brown  ; 
smooth. 

Boletus  mutabilis 

Cap — Brown,  becoming  blackish  ;  smooth  and  shining  ;  or  dry, 
somewhat  woolly. 

Flesh— Bright  yellow,  promptly  changing  to  blue  when  wounded. 

Tubes — Yellow,  changing  to  greenish  yellow,  and  quickly  be- 
coming blue  when  wounded.  Mouths  large  and  angular. 

Stem— Stout,  bright  yellow  within,  covered  with  brown  and 
dotted  scales. 

Habitat—  Dense  woods. 

Boletus  speciosus 

Cap— Red.     3-7  inches  broad. 

Flesh — Pale  or  bright  lemon  yellow,  changing  to  blue  when 
wounded. 

BT-co-lSr        £y-Sn-es'-sens        PM'-M-dtts        Mu-tS'-bUIs        Spe-tf-o'-stts 

105 


Fungi  with  Pores — Boletaceae 

Tubes — Bright  lemon  yellow,  becoming  dingy  yellow  with  age; 

changing  to  green,  then  to  blue,  when  wounded. 
Stem — Bright  lemon  yellow  -without  and  within,  sometimes  reddish 

at  the  base.     2-4  inches  long. 
Habitat — Thin  woods. 


Golden-flesh  Boletus 

Boletus  ckrysenteron  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  63) 

Cap — Yellowish  brown,  reddish  brown,  brick  red,  or  olive  tinted 

with  reddish  chinks.    One  to  three  inches. 
Flesb—  Yellow,  red  just  under  tie  skin,  often  changing  to  blue 

when  wounded. 

Tubes—  Greenish  yellow,  changing  to  blue  when  wounded. 
Stem— Red  or  pale  yellow;  1-3  inches. 
Habitat— Woods  or  mossy  banks,  common. 

Boletus  radicans 

C*/— Dry,  somewhat  woolly.  Greenish  grey,  becoming  pale  yel- 
low. Margin  rolled  under. 

Flesh— Pale  yellow,  instantly  changing  to  dark  blue  when  wounded. 

Tubes — Lemon  yellow. 

Stem — Tapering  downward  and  rooting.  Woolly,  with  a  reddish 
bloom.  Pale  yellow,  becoming  dark  with  a  touch. 

Habitat— Woods,  Ohio. 

Boletus  Peckii 

Cap— Firm,  dry.     Red,  fading  to  yellowish  red  or  buff  brown. 
Tubes — Yellow,  changing  to  blue  when  wounded. 
Stem— Red;  yellow  at  the  top. 
Habitat— Woods. 

Boletus  calopus 

Cap— Olive  tinted,  somewhat  woolly.     2-3  inches  wide. 
Flesh— Pallid,  slightly  changing  to  blue  when  wounded. 
Tubes— Yellow. 
Stem— Covered  with  a  network.     Wholly  scarlet,  or  at  the  apex 

only.     Longer  than  the  diameter  of  the  cap. 
Habitat—  Woods. 

Crfs-«n'-tgr-da  Ri'-dl-cXns  P&k'-W  Cai-5'-pfis 

1 06 


-  8 

tu     18 


CONE-LIKE  BOLETUS  (EDIBLE.    Mel.) 

(Not  a  true  Boletus) 

(Strobilomycrs  strobilaceus.     Berk.) 

Purplish  black;  flesh  white,  changing  to  red  when  bruised.     See  p.  IO2 


BITTER  BOLETUS  (DANGEROUS) 

(Boletus  felleus,  Bull.;  var.  obesus,  Pk.).     See  p.  107 

Cap,  3-8  inches;  stem   2-4  inches 


Genus  Boletus 


Purple  Boletus 

Boletus  purpureus 

Cap — Dry,  velvety.    Purple  red. 

Flesh— Changing  to  blue,  and  then  to  dark  yellow  m  the  young 

plant. 
Tubes— Yellow  or  greenish  yellow.     Mouths  minute,   orange 

tinged  -with  purple,  changing  to  blue  where  wounded. 
Stem— Stout,  with  purple  veins  or  dots.     Apex  sometimes  covered 

with  a  network.     Yellow,  reddish  within. 
Habitat—  Woods. 

Boletus  Satanus  (Dangerous) 


Cap — Smooth,  somewhat  sticky. 
Pale  brown  or  whitish. 
3-8  inches  broad. 

Flesh — Whitish,  becoming  red- 
dish or  violet  when 
wounded.  f^ery  poison- 
ous. 

Tubes — Yellow.  Mouths  bright- 
red,  becoming  orange. 

Stem — Thick,  swollen,  marked 
above  with  a  red  network. 
2-3  inches  long. 

Habitat—  Woods. 


B    Satanus 


Bitter  Boletus  (Suspected.     Very  Bitter) 

Boletus  felleus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  107) 

Cap — Smooth,  pale  yellowish,  greyish  brown,  yellowish  brown, 

reddish  brown,  or  chestnut.     3-8  inches  broad. 
Flesh — White,  changing  to  flesh  colour  when  bruised.     Taste 

bitter. 
Tubes — White,  becoming  flesh  colour.     Mouths  angular.     Adnate 

to  the  stem. 
Stem — Covered  with  network.     Colour  similar  to  the  cap.     2-4 

inches  long. 
Habitat — Woods  and  open  places. 


Pfir-pu'-rg-us 


Sa-ta'-nas 
107 


FeT-l«-us 


Fungi  with  Pores — Boletacese 


BoletUS   SCaber  (Edible)  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  114) 

Cap — Smooth,  -viscid  when  moist,  or  minutely  woolly,  velvety,  or 
scaly.  1-5  inches  wide.  Colour  ranges  from  nearly  white 
to  almost  black. 

Tubes— Free  from  the  stem,  white,  long.     Mouths  minute. 

Flesh— White. 

Stem. — Long,  ground  colour  whitish,  roughened  with  blackish 
brown  or  reddish  dots  or  scales.  3-5  inches  long. 

Habitat—  Common  in  woods,  swampy  and  open  places. 

Orange-cap  Boletus 

Boletus  versipellis 

Cap — Orange  red.  2-6  inches  wide.  Dry,  minutely  woolly, 
then  scaly  or  smooth.  Margin  edged  with  the  remains  of 
the  veil. 

Flesh — White  or  greyish. 

Tubes — Long.     Mouths  minute.     Greyish-white. 

Stem — Solid  ;  white  scaly  wrinkles.  Whitish  colour.  3-5 
inches  long. 

Habitat—  Woods  and  open  places. 

Chestnut  Boletus  (Edible) 

Boletus  castaneus 

Cap — Dry,  minutely  velvety.     Cinnamon  or  reddish-brown.     1-3 

inches  broad. 
Flesh— White. 

Tubes — White,  becoming  yellow.    Short,  and  free  from  the  stem. 
Stem — Clothed  and  coloured  like  the  cap.     i-2>£  inches  high. 
Habitat—  Sandy  soil  at  edges  of  woods.    Common. 

Boletus  eximius 

Cap — Purplish-brown  or  chocolate  colour,  fading  to  smoky  red 

or  pale  chestnut.     3-10  inches  broad. 
Flesh — Greyish  or  reddish  white. 
Tubes — Resembling  the  cap  in  colour.     Mouths  minute. 
Stem — Stout,  covered  with  a  meal-like  powder.   Colour  resembling 

the  cap,  grey  tinged  with  purple  within.     2-4  inches  long. 
Habitat—  Woods. 

Sci'-Wr  V«r-sI-p«l'-Hs  Cis-ta'-ne-tis  Ex-Im'-I-tis 

1 08 


Fungi  with  Pores—  Poly poraceae 


Edible  Boletus 

Boletus  edulis 

Cap — Convex  or  nearly   plane;   smooth,  moist;  compact,   then 

soft.     Greyish  red,  brownish  red,  or  tawny  brown.    4-6 

inches  broad. 

Flesh — White  or  yellowish;  reddish  beneath  the  skin. 
Tubes — Convex,  nearly  free,  long,  minute,  round.     White,  then 

yellow  and  greenish. 
Stem — Short  or  long,  straight   or  curving,  sometimes  bulbous, 

stout,    covered  with    network.     Just    beneath    the    sterp 

whitish  or  brownish.     2-6  inches  long. 
Habitat  —Thin  woods.  I 

Boletus  subtomentosus 

Cap — Covered  with  soft  -woolly  hairs.  Somewhat  olive  green, 
uniform  in  colour  under  the  skin,  yellow  chinks  on  the  sur- 
face. 

Flesh— White. 

Tubes — Yellow,  with  large  angular  mouths. 

Stem — Stout,  rugged,  with  minute  dots. 

Habitat — Common  in  woods. 

Boletus  Americanus 

Cap — Thin,  soft,  viscid,  slightly  woolly  on  the  margin  when 
young.  Yellow,  becoming  dingy  with  age;  sometimes 
streaked  with  bright  red.  1-3  inches  broad. 

Flesh — Pale  yellow. 

Tubes— Not  free  from  the  stem.  Large,  angular.  Pale  yellow, 
becoming  tinged  with  brown. 

Stem — Slender.  No  annulus.  Yellow,  brownish  towards  the  base, 
marked  with  numerous  brown  or  reddish-brown  glandular 
dots;  yellow  within.  i^-2>^  inches  long. 

Habitat—  Woods,  swamps. 

POLYPORACE/E 

The  fungi  with  pores  permanently  united  to  the  surrounding 
tissue  and  to  each  other  form  a  large  and  important  group,  the 
Polyporacece.  With  but  few  exceptions  they  are  leathery,  corky, 
membranous,  or  woody. 

Nearly  six  hundred  species  have  been  reported  from  America. 

fed'-u-lls        Stib'-t6-m£n-t6'-stis        A-mgr'-l-ca'-ntis        P6'-l?-p8-ra'-9«-* 


Fungi  with  Pores— Polyporaceae 

GENUS  MERULIUS 
Merulius  lacrymans 

The  simplest  of  these  Polyporacece  is  the  dry-rot  fungus, 
Merulius  lacrymans.  The  food-seeking  portion  consists  of  fine 
white  threads,  mycelium,  which  penetrate  the  woodwork  of 
buildings,  causing  it  to  crumble  to  dust.  The  fruiting  portion 
consists  of  flat,  irregular  bodies  whose  under  surface  bears  the 
spores  in  shallow  pits  separated  by  narrow  ridges.  Water  is 
excreted  from  these  flat  disks,  which,  from  the  habit  of  dropping 
like  tears,  has  suggested  the  specific  name  lacrymans,  from  the 
Latin  lacrymare,  to  weep. 

GENUS  POLYPORUS 

The  genus  Polyporus  and  the  genus  Trametes  have  the  pores 
closely  packed  and  united  to  together.  In  Trametes  the  uniting 
substance  is  the  same  as  the  substance  of  the  cap,  but  in  Poly- 
porus the  uniting  substance  is  different  from  the  substance  of 
the  cap.  The  genus  Polyporus  in  its  widest  sense  is  a  large, 
one,  numbering  some  five  hundred  species,  and  containing  every 
texture  from  fleshy  or  pulpy  to  woody. 

The  fruiting  portion  is  often  seen  in  the  form  of  brackets 
shelving  out  from  standing  or  fallen  trees.  The  mycelium  pene- 
trates the  wood,  softening  it,  and  causing  it  to  crumble,  so  that 
in  the  course  of  time  the  tree  dies.  The  external  evidence  that 
the  tree  has  been  attacked  is  the  appearance  of  the  fruiting  por- 
tion, which  often  attains  a  very  great  size. 

Elfvingia  (polyporus)  megaloma 

Polyporus  megaloma  is  attractive  to  frequenters  of  the  woods, 
as  its  spore  surface  when  fresh  is  soft  and  white,  and  furnishes 
an  attractive  surface  for  stencil  drawings. 

Elfvingia  (polyporus)  fomentaria 

The  brackets  of  Elfvingia  fomentaria  resemble  horses' 
hoofs.  They  are  employed  in  the  manufacture  of  amadou,  or 

P6-lyp'-6-rfis  Tra-me'-tes  M«g-i-l6'-mi  F6-ra6n-ta -rf-fis 

no 


Painted  Boletinus  (edib!e) 

(Boletinus  pictus,  Pk.). 
Cap,  2-4  inches;  stem,  1^-3  inches. 


Spreading  Hydnum  (edible). 

(Hydnum  repandum,  L.). 
Cap,  1-4  inches;  stem,  1-3  inches. 
See  page  95. 


Genus  Polyporus 

German  tinder,  which,  in  the  form  of  sticks  or  fusees,  commonly 
known  as  punk,  is  used  for  lighting  cigars  and  pipes  in  the 
wind,  or  for  touching  off  fireworks. 

The  fusees  are  made  by  beating  the  fungus  substance  until 
it  is  flexible,  and  then  dipping  it  into  saltpetre, 

Polyporus  conchatus 

Polyporus  conchatus  is  a  beautiful  species  found  on  the 
under  side  of  fallen  trees,  growing  in  such  a  manner  that  from 
the  spore-bearing  surface  the  shells  look  like  rosettes  of  shim- 
mering golden-brown  velvet. 

Polyporus  velutinus 

Polyporus  velutinus  is  common  in  the  form  of  stiff  ruffles 
with  white  or  creamy  spore  surface,  and  grey  or  tan-coloured 
plush-like  upper  surface. 

Polyporus  pergamenus 

Polyporus  pergamenus  has  a  somewhat  bristle-like,  tan- 
coloured  spore  surface,  and  a  velvety  drab  upper  surface,  often 
tinged  with  green  from  a  green  alga  which  grows  upon  it. 

Polyporus  perennis 

Polyporus  perennis  resembles  a  slender-stemmed  goblet. 

Polyporus  sulphureus 

Polyporus  sulphureus  is  an  edible  fleshy  form.  It  grows  in 
clusters,  the  stemless  caps  often  five  or  six  inches  broad  and 
overlapping.  The  colour  of  the  young  cap  is  yellowish  red  or 
pale  orange,  with  the  margin  wavy,  and  of  a  beautiful  yellow. 
It  is  soft  and  juicy,  and  often — when  cut — exudes  a  yellow 
juice. 

The  plants  may  be  found  on  the  dead  wood  of  trees 
during  showery  weather  from  May  to  October.  The  mature 
plants  become  dry  and  crumbling,  and  as  they  dry  they  lose 

C6n-cha'-tfis      V«l-u'-tt-nGs      Pgr-gS-me'-nQs      P«r-«n'-nls      Sfil-phu-r*-fis 

III 


Fungi  with  Pores — Polyporaceae 

their  attractive  colours.  They  exhibit  phosphorescence  in  early 
stages  of  decay.  The  tubes  are  minute  and  short  and  of  a 
bright  sulphur  colour.  Only  the  young  plants  should  be  used 
for  food. 

Polyporus  squamosus 

Polyporus  squamosus  is  found  often  on  decayed  ash  trees  and 
sometimes  on  others.  The  cap  has  a  thick  lateral  dark  stem  and 
is  pale  yellow  tinged  with  brown,  and  covered  with  dark  scales. 
It  is  reported  to  have  been  found  seven  feet  in  circumference, 
with  a  weight  of  forty-two  pounds,  and  that  it  attained  this 
growth  in  the  short  time  of  four  weeks. 

Polyporus  lucidus 

Polyporus  lucidus  has  a  lateral  stem  which,  with  all  but  the 
margin  of  the  cap,  is  highly  polished,  as  if  varnished,  and  is  in 
colour  a  rich  mahogany  brown. 

Polyporus  arCUIarJUS  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  150) 

Cap — Dark  brown,  minutely  scaly,  depressed  in  the  centre; 
margin  stiff,  edge  hairy,  no  flesh. 

Tubes — Dingy  cream  colour.  Openings  oblong,  almost  diamond- 
shape,  resembling  the  meshes  of  a  net,  drawn  from  stem  to 
the  margin  of  the  cap,  the  meshes  smaller  on  the  margin, 
and  simply  marked  out  at  the  top  of  the  stem. 

Stem — Dark  brown,  minutely  scaly,  mottled,  with  a  ground 
work  of  cream  colour.  Older  stems  are  roughened  at 
the  base  with  whitish  hairs.  Hollow. 

Spores — Creamy  white. 

Habitat — The  specimen  pictured  was  found  growing  on  decayed 
branches  of  an  oak  tree  in  North  Carolina. 

Polyporus  Versicolor*  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  118) 

Polyporus  -versicolor  has  a  leathery  cap,  thin  and  rigid,  plane, 
depressed  at  the  attached  portion,  velvety,  shining  with  varie- 
gated two-coloured  zones.  The  pores  are  minute,  round,  with 
acute  and  ragged  edges.  White,  then  yellowish.  It  is  common 
on  decaying  tree  trunks  and  upon  telegraph  poles. 

Squa-m5'-stis  Lu'-9*-dfis  Xr-cu-la'-rf-tis          VSr-s*c'-6-16T 

*  Known  also  as  Polystictus  versicolor 

112 


Genus  Lenzites 


PolypOrUS  CircinatUS  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  118) 

Polyporus  circinatus  quite  often  has  one  cap  within 
another.  The  caps  are  thick,  round,  without  zones,  velvety,  and 
of  a  rusty-yellow  colour.  The  lower  surfaces  of  the  caps,  with 
the  stems  are  woody  and  corky,  but  the  upper  surfaces  of  the 
caps  are  soft  and  woolly.  The  stem  is  swollen  and  covered 
with  yellow  wool.  The  pores  are  decurrent,  minute,  and  un- 
broken, and  of  a  dusky  grey  colour.  This  is  a  handsome  species, 
especially  remarkable  for  its  double  cap.  The  stem  is  an  inch 
long  and  almost  equally  thick.  The  cap  is  three  to  four  inches 
wide,  and  the  flesh  is  uniform  in  colour. 

GENUS  TRAMETES 

Trametes  pini  is  brown,  and  grows  on  pines  and  other  cone- 
bearing  trees.  Trametes  cinnabarina  is  bright  red,  and  common 
on  birch  and  cherry.  Trametes  suaveolens  is  white,  and  grows 
on  willows. 

GENUS  LENZITES 
Lenzites  betulina  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  119) 

The  Lenities  betulina  has  a  somewhat  corky,  leathery  cap, 
firm,  and  without  zones, 
woolly  and  pale;  the  mar- 
gin of  uniform  colour;  the 
lamellae  radial,  somewhat 
branching,  and  coming  to- 
gether again.  Sordid  white. 
This  fungus,  in  the  form  of 
brackets,  is  found  espe- 
cially on  birch  trees,  but  it 
is  also  found  on  various 
other  kinds.  It  is  a  wide- 

,  .  ,    .  .,  Under  surface  of  L.  betulina 

spread  species,  and  is  quite 

variable.      The   lamellae  are  at  first  thick,  corky,   and  sordid 

white;  then  thinner,  with  acute  edges. 

s     Pl'-nl    Gfa'-nS-ba-ri'-nS     Su*a-ve'-8-lgns    Le"n-zl'-tes    Be't-u-lf-nS 
8  113 


Fungi  with  Pores — Polyporaceae 

Lenzites  separia 

Leathery  shells,  with  the  upper  surface  marked  with  rough 
zones  of  various  shades  of  brown:  the  under  surface  with  brown, 
radiating,  papery  gills. 


GENUS  D/EDALEA 

The  genus  Dcedalea  has  the  spore-bearing  surface  in  the 
form  of  winding  and  labyrinthine  lamellae,  so  that  instead  of 
pores  there  are  irregular  branching  slits  on  the  under  surface. 
These  fungi  are  normally  sessile,  woody,  and  hard. 

Daedalea  unicolor 

Dcedalea  unicolor  is  in  form  like  a  full  leather  ruffle  with 
scalloped  edge,  so  full  that  the  scallops  overlap.  The  branching 
slits  are  very  minute,  and  the  upper  side  is  in  zones  of  tan  colour, 
with  a  plush-like  surface.  The  zones  are  often  tinged  with  blue 
or  green  from  algae  which  grow  upon  them. 


Daedalea  confragosa 

Dcedalea  confragosa  has  a  rough  grey  upper  surface,  and 
grows  from  the  centre  in  the  form  of  depressed  sessile  caps. 
The  texture  is  firm  and  leathery. 


quercina  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  122) 

Dcedalea  quercina  is  a  woody  or  corky  species,  rugged,  and 
without  zones  on  the  surface.  At  first  it  is  porous  ;  then,  by 
the  breaking  down  of  the  walls  of  the  pores,  slits  are  formed, 
with  blunt  partitions.  It  is  common  on  oak  trees. 

Se-pl'-rf-I  Dae-da'-lc-i  C6n'-fri-gd'-s4 

"4 


SCABROUS-STEMMED    BOLETUS  (EDIBLE) 

(Boletus  scaber,  Fr. ;  var.  niveus,  Gill.) 
Cap  white,    1—5  inches;    stem,   3-5   inches.     See  p.    108 


TINDERWOOD    POLYPORUS 

{Eljingia  fomentaria,  L.;   Fames  fomentarius,   Gill.;  Poly porus  foment arius,   Fr.i 
Upper  surface  grey  to  brown;    tube-surface  concave.     See   p.    11(1 


GENUS  FAVOLUS 


Genus  Favolus 


The  genus  Favolus  has  but  few  spe- 
cies ;  one  is  very  common  on  beech  and 
hickory  trees.  Favolus  alveolarius  has  a 
lateral  stem.  The  cap  is  depressed,  and 
has  a  smooth,  creamy-white  upper  sur- 
face, with  long  hexagonal  pores  running 
down  the  short  stem. 


F.  alveolarius 


115 


CHAPTER  IX:  GELATINOUS  AND  OTHER 

FUNGI 

Jew's  Ear,  or  Judas's  Ear  (Edible) 

Hirneola  auricula- Judce  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  123) 

THE  Jew's  ear  is  a  gelatinous  fungus  which  is  so  lobed  and 
folded  as  to  resemble  a  human  ear.  It  is  this  resemblance  to  an 
ear  which  has  suggested  the  names,  Jew's  ear  and  Judas's  ear. 
Its  habit  of  growing  on  elder  has  given  rise  to  the  belief  that 
Judas  Iscariot  hanged  himself  on  this  tree.  This  fungus  is  prized 
by  the  Chinese  as  an  article  of  food,  and  is  imported  by  them  from 
the  South  Sea  Islands. 

Its  manner  of  bearing  the  spores  on  basidia  places  it  in 
Class  III,  Basidiomycetes,  which  contains  fungi  with  gills,  teeth, 
and  pores. 

Tremellodon 

Tremellodon  is  a  clear  fungus,  which  in  colour  resembles  a 
piece  of  water-soaked  snow,  but  in  form  resembles  a  Hydnum, 
as  it  has  teeth-like  projections  on  the  under  surface. 

Guepinia 

Guepina  is  a  bright  yellow  fungus,  about  an  inch  high,  in 
form  like  little  spatules  or  goblets.  It  is  common  in  cracks  of 
logs  and  stumps. 

mr-ne'-5-l*  Au-rfc'-fi-li  Tre-mSl'-16-d6n  Guip-Kn'-i-i 


CHAPTER   X:    OFFENSIVE    FUNGI— ORDER 
PHALLALES 

THE  Phallales  are  all  terrestrial  fungi ;  that  is,  they  are  found 
growing  on  the  ground,  and  not  on  logs  and  trees.  They  are  in- 
teresting, but  too  offensive  to  attract  any  but  the  most  coura- 
geous students. 

They  are  more  common  in  the  South  than  in  the  North, 
where  they  make  themselves  too  conspicuous  by  their  intoler- 
able odour. 

They  are  structurally  different  from  the  other  pouch-fungi,  the 
puffballs,  in  that  they  do  not  retain  their  spores  in  the  skin  (pe- 
ridium)  until  they  are  fully  mature,  but  send  them  into  the  light, 
exposed  on  a  quickly  deliquescing  jelly-like  mass,  the  gleba. 

The  order  may  conveniently  be  divided  into  two  families: 
(  Receptacle  latticed,  sessile,  or  stalked. 

FAMILY  i.  CLATHRACE/E  •]  Spore  mass  borne  on  the  inner  sur- 
'      face  of  the  receptacle. 
(  Receptacle  tubular  or  cylindric,  with  a 

FAMILY  II.  PHALLACE^  -j       Cap. 

'  Spore  mass  on  the  surface  of  the  cap. 

GENUS  PHALLUS 
Stinkhorns 

The  genus  Phallus  may  be  readily  distinguished  by  the 
cylindrical  shape  of  the  spore  receptacles  and  the  intolerable 
odour.  No  one  with  his  sense  of  smell  developed  would  think  of 
eating  the  members  of  this  group.  The  botanist  and  the  artist, 
however,  have  braved  this  lion  on  his  own  territory,  and  have 
found  much  that  is  beautiful  and  interesting  ;  the  artist  having 
the  advantage  in  his  task  of  portraying  the  handsome  specimen, 

FWl-la'-les  ClSth-ra'-Se-ae  Phil-la'  -5?-*  PhiU-liis 

117 


Offensive  Fungi 

in  that  he  can  inclose  it  in  a  sealed  glass  case  and  work  in 
comfort.  The  experience  of  the  botanist  must  be  realised  to  be 
appreciated. 

An  overpowering  fetid  odour  suddenly  evident  upon  the 
premises  has  many  times  filled  with  consternation  the  guests  at 
summer  resorts,  causing  among  them  much  speculation,  with 
suggestions  of  bad  sewerage,  and  carelessness  on  the  part  of  their 
host,  together  with  other  comments  equally  disastrous  to  the 
reputation  of  the  place. 

The  distracted  householder  searches  in  vain  for  a  solution  of 
the  difficulty,  and  the  odour  disappears  as  mysteriously  as  it  came. 
If  he  is  one  of  the  initiated,  however,  he  will  search  until  he  finds 
the  haunt  of  the  offender,  and  will  destroy  all  chance  of  a  repeti- 
tion of  the  nuisance — for  one  summer,  at  least. 

The  mischief-maker  is  a  handsome  specimen,  as  its  plate 
shows.  The  white  stem,  bearing  at  its  summit  a  mass  of  gela- 
tinous green  substance  capped  with  a  yellow-white  ring,  and 
emitting  its  intolerable  odour,  has  surely  come  into  existence  for  a 
purpose — a  purpose  soon  suggested — as  hundreds  of  flies  wing 
their  way  hither  to  sip  the  semi-fluid  mass. 

The  botanist  tells  us  that  the  spores  of  this  plant  are  mixed 
in  the  green  fluid,  and  that  they  are  carried  away  on  the  feet  and 
in  the  bodies  of  the  flies  to  other  places,  where  new  colonies  may 
be  started. 

The  plant  has  undoubtedly  emerged  from  the  ground  for  the 
sole  purpose  of  disseminating  its  spores,  and  all  its  parts  have 
been  developed  to  accomplish  this  function  in  the  most  effectual 
manner. 

The  banquet  for  the  flies  is  prepared  underground,  and  the 
table,  with  its  viands  all  ready,  is  pushed  into  the  light,  while  the 
invitation  to  the  guests  is  wafted  swiftly  on  the  breeze. 

One  is  curious  to  learn  the  mechanism  by  which  so  much  is 
accomplished  in  apparently  so  short  a  time,  and  finds  in  this 
instance,  as  in  all  others  where  great  things  are  accomplished 
with  ease,  that  many  forces  have  been  slowly  at  work  to  insure 
everything  being  in  readiness  for  the  success  of  a  final  flourish. 
A  search  underground  shows  the  mycelial  threads  to  have  per- 
meated the  soil  for  many  feet  in  every  direction  in  search  of 
building  material,  and  a  glance  at  a  vertical  section  of  one  of  the 
pink  eggs  which  has  pushed  its  way  out  of  the  soil  will  show 

tit 


Polyporus   versicolor,    F 


Polypous  circinatus,  Fr. 

Cap,  3-4  inches;  stem,  i  inch. 

See  page  1 1 3. 


Lenzites  betulina,  Fr. 
See  page  1 13 


Genus  Phallus 

in  outline  the  plan  of  what  is  to  be.     The  pink  "eggshell,"  or 
peridium,  is  lined  with  a  jelly-like  substance,  which  has  un- 

doubtedly 
served  as  a 
safe  packing 


Pink,egg6hell  • 
fiiture  (jreen  mass  of  Cap 
del}/- like  substance 
Future  stem 


Compressed  cells 


Section  of  young  phallus 


to  what  is 
within,  a 
protection 
against 
blows  and 
insect  rav- 
ages. Within 
this  coat,  in 
section,  ap- 
pears as  two 
dark  -col- 


oured saddle-bags  that  which  later  is  to  form  the  green  mass  on 
the  cap  of  the  fully  developed  spore  table.  Between  these  dark 
masses  lies  in  section  the  future  stem  ;  it  is  hollow,  and  bears  on 
its  rim  the  spore-bearing  cap.  The  walls  of  this  cap  consist  of 
flattened  cells,  which  by  extraordinary  growth  and  expansion  are 
to  force  the  stem  through  the  eggshell  and  carry  the  banquet  of 
spores  several  inches  into  the  light,  leaving  the  torn  wrapper 
as  a  volva  at  its  base,  a  natural  "Jack-in-the-box." 


Phallus   impudicUS   (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  122) 


Cap  or  Pilfus— Outer  surface  bearing  the 
spores  in  a  jelly-like  mass,  gleba. 
Conic-cam  panulate.  Outer  surface 
sculptured  with  reticulated  ridges  after 
the  green  spore  mass  has  disap- 
peared. 

Stem — Hollow,  tapering  at  each  end ;  upper 
end  joined  with  the  cap  by  a  recurved 
border. 

Veil—  Wanting. 

Volva — Pinkish. 

Habitat—  Low  ground. 

fm-pud'Jt-cus 


Reticulated 
ridge* 


P.  irapudicu* 


Offensive  Fung! 


GENUS   DICTYOPHORA 

The  genus  Dictyophora  differs  from  the  genus  Phallus  in 
having  a  veil  suspended  from  the  apex  of  the  stem,  underneath 
the  pileus  or  cap. 

Dictyophora  Ravenelii 

Stem — Tapering  at  both  ends. 

Veil—  Short,  not  reaching  below  the  cap. 

Dictyophora  duplicata 

fW/— Voluminous,  hanging  for  several  inches  below  the  cap. 

It  is  thought  that  this  delicate  white  network,  which  hangs 
like  a  lace  skirt  below  the  cap,  renders  the  fungus  additionally 
conspicuous  after  dark,  thus  attracting  the  night  moths  and  other 
night-flying  insects. 

MutinuS  CaninUS  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  138) 

Cap  or  Pileus — Flesh  coloured.  The  spore-bearing  mass,  oblong, 
ovoid,  or  conical,  occupying  one-third  to  one-sixth  the  total 
length  of  the  stipe. 


..Spore  mass 


Embryo 
plant 


Velva... 


Volva 


Young  plant 
M.  caninus 


Sulk 


Volva 


M.  batnbusinus 


Stem  or  Stipe — Hollow,  cylindrical,  fusiform. 
Habitat—  About  buildings,  in  gardens  and  thickets. 


R*'-Y«n-«T-H 


Du-pll-ca'-t4 
Mu-G'-ntts 

120 


Ca-m'-ntts 
Bam-bu-si'-nfts 


Family  Clatbracei 


FAMILY  CLATHRACE/E 

The  members  of  the  family  Clathracece  have  a  volva  similar 
to  the  volva  of  the  Phallacece.  The  volva  ruptures,  and  the 
receptacle  issues  in  a  similar  manner.  The  members  of  this 
family  have  the  spore  receptacle  latticed  or  branched  instead  of 
tubular  or  cylindrical,  and  bear  the  spores  on  the  inner  surface 
of  the  receptacle  rather  than  on  the  outer  surface. 


Latticed  Clathrus 

Clathrus  cancellatus 

Receptacle  not  stalked.  The 
bars  of  the  lattice-work  are  ob- 
lique and  transversely  wrinkled. 
The  outer  surface  may  be  cinna- 
bar red  or  white  or  yellowish. 
The  inner  surface  of  the  bars  is 
red. 


Volra 


C.  cancellatus 


Clathrus  columnatus  (Dangerous) 

Receptacle  not  stalked,  consisting  of  from  2-5  vertical  col- 
umns, separate  below,  but  jointed  at  the  apex.  Columns  cinna- 
bar red,  enclosing  the  spore  mass.  Odour  very  fetid. 


I....  Arms 


I Sulk 


/ Volva 


A.  borealis 


Lysurus  borealis 

Receptacle  stalked,  hollow,  divided  above* 
into  arms,  which  do  not  join  at  their  apices,  and 
which  bear  the  spore  masses  on  their  inner  sur- 
faces, enclosing  the  spore  mass  when  young, 
but  later  diverging. 

Stem  of  receptacle  white ;  arms  narrow 
lance-shaped,  with  pale  flesh-coloured  backs, 
traversed  their  entire  length  by  a  shallow 
furrow. 


Clath-ra'-c*-ae 
Clath'-rtis 


Can-9*fl-la'-ttis 
C61-tim-na'-ttis 


An-thu'-rfis 


121 


Offensive  Fungi 


Simblum  rubescens 

Receptacle  stalked  and  globular,  bars  of  the 
lattice  forming  meshes  of  about  equal  diam- 
eter either  way.  Red  or  flesh  coloured,  and 
transversely  wrinkled. 

Slm'-blttm  I 


&  rabescens 


122 


Dtedalea  quercina,  (L.)  Pers. 
Upper  side.    Reduced 


Dtedalea  guercina,  (L.)  Pers. 
Lower  side.     Reduced 


JEW'S   EAR.     JUDAS'S   EAR   (EDIBLE) 
(Hirneola  Auricula-Judo:,  (L.)  Berk.) 


See  cage    36 


cx 
S 


Pu 


Calostoma  Ravenelii  (Berk.)  Mas-. 


ialostoma  lutescens  (Schw.),  Burnap 


Calostoma  cinnabarinum,  Desv. 


Spathularla  velutipes,  C.  &  F 
Reduced.     See  pa^e    l^£ 


CHAPTER    XI,:   PUFFBALLS 
ORDER  LYCOPERDALES 

THE  pouch  fungi  include  all  fungi  which  have  their  spores 
or  seeds  in  closed  chambers  until  maturity — that  is,  until  they  are 
fully  ripe  and  ready  to  be  scattered  by  winds  or  animals.  Col- 
lectively, the  closed  chambers  are  called  the  gleba,  and  this  gleba 
is  surrounded  by  a  definite  rind  (peridium),  which,  in  different 
puffballs,  has  various  and  characteristic  ways  of  opening  to  per- 
mit the  spores  to  escape. 

The  different  ways  in  which  the  rinds  (peridia)  open  are 
explained  under  the  separate  examples  of  the  pouch  fungi — 
puffballs,  earth-stars,  stinkhorns,  birds'  nests,  and  calostomas. 

The  Lycoperdales,  known  in  different  parts  of  the  country  as 
smokeballs,  devil's  snuffboxes,  puffballs,  etc.,  have  their  spores 
enclosed  until  maturity  in  closed  chambers,  surrounded  by  a  con- 
tinuous skin  or  peridium.  They  spend  most  of  their  lifetime 
underground,  getting  their  food  from  decaying  vegetable  matter, 
and  are  for  this  reason  called  subterranean  saprophytes.  When 
they  are  about  ready  to  scatter  their  spores,  they  emerge  from  the 
ground,  and  are  then  to  be  seen  in  pastures,  and  on  fallen  logs  in 
woods  and  along  roadsides.  Every  country  child  has  pinched 
them  to  see  the  "  smoke"  rise,  little  knowing  that  he  was  doing 
for  the  puffball  just  that  for  which  it  had  come  into  existence — 
scattering  its  spores  far  and  wide  to  grow  into  new  plants. 

The  plants  of  the  puffballs,  the  mycelial  threads,  form  an 
extensive  network  of  white  threads  in  the  decaying  vegetable 
matter  in  which  they  grow  ;  then  little  balls  appear  on  the  white 
threads,  as  in  the  Agaricales,  with  the  difference  that  they  in- 
crease in  size  without  forming  gills  and  stem.  The  balls  have 
a  fleshy  interior,  cheesy  and  white  at  first,  but  afterwards  yel- 
lowish or  pinkish,  gradually  darkening  until  the  whole  or  a  part 

Ly'-c6-p£r-da'-les 
123 


Puffballs 

of  the  fleshy  interior  becomes  filled  with  dust-like  spores,  when 
the  rind  of  the  ball  breaks  to  let  the  spores  escape. 

Sometimes  the  wall  breaks  off  in  scales  ;  sometimes  it  is 
punctured  at  the  summit  with  one  hole,  sometimes  with  several, 
and  sometimes  it  splits  and  turns  back  to  form  a  star  on  the 
ground.  Sometimes  the  balls  contain  elastic  threads  (capillitium), 
which  help  to  push  out  the  spores,  and  sometimes  they  do  not. 
Sometimes  there  are  threads  massed  at  the  base  without  spores 
in  them,  so  that  they  form  a  sterile  base  or  sterile  subgleba,  and 
sometimes  the  threads  are  massed  to  form  a  central  column 
(columella)  in  the  interior  of  the  ball.  These  characters,  with 
others,  form  the  basis  on  which  the  puffballs  are  separated 
into  the  genera  Lycoperdon,  Geaster,  Cal-vatia,  Bovtstella,  Bovista, 
and  Calostoma. 

GENUS  LYCOPERDON 

The  Lycoperdons,  or  true  puffballs,  produce  within  the  ball 
vast  numbers  of  dust-like  spores  mingled  with  elastic  threads. 
When  the  ball  is  compressed,  the  rind  or  peridium  bursts  at  the 
summit  to  form  a  single  mouth,  and  the 
elastic  threads  cause  the  spores  to  fly  out  in 
puffs  like  smoke. 

The  spore-bearing  part  of  the  plant  is 
globe-shaped,  obovoid,  or  top-shaped,  and 
at  the  base  of  the  gleba  no  spores  are  pro- 
duced ;  the  cells  here  are  coarse  and  empty. 
.  The  rind  or  peridium  of  the  ball  con- 

Lycoperdon  ,      , 

sists  of  two  parts,  the  outer  bark  or  outer 
peridium  being  adorned  with  spines  or  scales  or  warts  or  gran- 
ules. Sometimes  the  exterior  coat  may  be  peeled  off,  sometimes 
it  dries  and  falls  away  in  fragments. 
The  inner  coat  is  thin  and  papery,  and 
opens  on  the  top  with  one  opening. 
At  first  the  ball  is  fleshy  within,  the 
microscope  showing  the  flesh  to  con- 
sist of  a  great  number  of  simple  or 
branched  threads  and  enlarged  cells. 
The  enlarged  cells  bear  usually  four 

Section  of  Lycoperdon 
Ly'-co-peV-d8n  (diagrammatic) 

124 


Genus  Lycoperdon 

spicules,  on  the  tips  of  which  are  the  spores.  When  the  plant 
is  fully  developed,  the  fleshy  part  becomes  so  filled  with  moisture 
that  water  may  be  squeezed  out  as  from  a  sponge.  As  the  flesh 
becomes  moist,  the  colour  changes  from  white,  through  yellow, 
to  olive.  After  the  change  in  colour,  the  wet  mass  becomes  dry 
and  powdery,  a  mass  of  globose  spores  and  elastic  threads  or 
capillitium. 

The  Lycoperdons  are  of  small  size,  usually  found  in  fields  and 
woods.  A  section  made  by  cutting  a  ball  from  top  to  base  will 
show  that  the  threads  form  a  more  or  less  well  developed  sterile 
base  or  subgleba  underneath  the  fertile  gleba,  or  mass  of  threads 
containing  spores.  Sometimes  the  sterile  threads  from  the  base 
rise  upward  in  the  centre  of  the  fertile  mass  and  form  a  little 
column,  the  columella.  Usually  the  threads  which  bear  the 
spores  are  in  two  sets  ;  one  set  extending  inward  from  the  walls 
of  the  rind,  and  another  set  extending  outward  from  the  central 
columella. 

Pear-shaped  Puffball  (Edible) 

Lycoperdon  pyriforms  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  126) 

Peridium  or  Pouch  —  Pear-shaped.     Dingy  white  or  brownish,  with 

mycelium  of  long,  white,  branching  fibres.     Diameter  ^£-i# 

inches.     Height  1-2  inches. 
Bark  or  Outer  Coat  —  Thin  ;  of  minute,  often  persistent,  scales  or 

granules,  or  short,  stout  spinules.  Whitish  grey  or  brownish. 
Inner  Coat  —  Smooth,  papery,  whitish  grey  or  brownish,  opening 

by  apical  mouth. 

Subgleba  —  Small,  white,  quite  compact,  the  cells  minute. 
Columella  —  Present. 

Spores  —  Globose,  even,  greenish  yellow  to  brownish  olive. 
Threads  —  Branched,  long,  forming  a  dense  tuft  in  the  centre. 
Time  —  July  to  October. 
Habitat  —  On  old  timber  or  on  the  ground,  in  groups  sometimes 

several  feet  across  in  extent.     The  commonest  of  puffballs, 

and  found  throughout  the  world. 

Pinkish  Puffball  (Edible) 

SUbtncarnatum  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  142) 


Peridium  or  Pouch  —  Globe-shaped,  sessile,  without  a  stem-like 
base.     Rarely  over  one  inch  in  diameter. 

Py'-rt-f6r'-m«  Sfib-In'-cir-na'  -tfim 

125 


Poffballs 

Bark  or  Outer  Coat—  Pinkish  brown,  with  minute  short,  stout  spin- 

ules,  which  fall  away  at  maturity. 
Inner  Coat— Ash  coloured.     Deeply  pitted  by  the  falling  off  of  the 

spinules  of  the  outer  coat,  the  pits  not  surrounded  with 

dotted  lines. 
Columella — Present. 
Subglcba — Small  but  distinct. 
Spores  and  Capillitium — Spores  round,  minutely  warted.     Greenish 

yellow,  then  brownish  olive.     Threads  long,  simple,  and 

transparent. 

Time — August  to  October. 
Habitat— Old  trunks  in  woods. 


GENUS   CALVATIA 

The  Calvatias  are  puffballs  of  large  size,  all  with  thick  cord- 
like  mycelium  rooting  from  the  base.     They  all  eject  their  spores 

through  irregular  openings  in  the  upper 

part  of  the  peridium,  and  they  all  have 

a     dense 

network  of 

branching 

threads 

(capillitium) 

traversing 

the    tissues 

of  the  spore- 
bearing  por- 

t  io  n,   the 

gleba.  These  threads  are  elastic,  and  project  the  spores  from 
the  rind  or  case  as  they  twist  and  turn.  The  sterile  portion,  the 
subgleba,  is  definitely  limited  and  concave  above. 

Brain-shaped  Calvatia  (Edible) 

Calvatia  craniformis  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  127) 

Ptridium  or  Pouch — Very  large,  obovoid  or  top-shaped,  depressed 
above. 

Bark  or  Outer  Coat — Smooth,  very  thin  and  fragile,  easily  peel- 
ing off.  Pallid  or  greyish,  often  with  a  reddish  tinge  ;  often 


:... Sterile  base 


Calvatia 


Section  of  Calvatia 


Cal-va'-shl-i 


Cri-nlf-for'-mte 


126 


BRAIN    PUFFBALL   (EDIBLE) 
(Calvatia  craniformis,  Schw.) 


Genus  Calvatia 

wrinkling  to  resemble  somewhat  the  surface  of  the  brain, 
whence  its  name  craniformis. 

Inner  Coat— Thin,  ochreous  to  bright  brown,  velvety,  extremely 
fragile.  The  upper  part  breaks  into  fragments. 

Subgleba — Occupies  half  the  peridium  ;  cup-shaped  above,  per- 
sistent. 

Sports — Greenish  yellow,  then  olivaceous.  Globose,  even,  with 
minute  pedicel. 

Threads — Long. 

Habitat— On  ground  in  woods. 

Giant  Puffball  (Edible) 

Calvatia  maxima 

Peridium  or  Pouch— V try  large,  8-15  inches  in  diameter,  or  larger. 
Globose,  depressed  globose,  or  obovoid,  with  a  thick  cord- 
like  root. 

Bark  or  Outer  Coat—  Flocculous  or  nearly  smooth,  thin,  and  fragile. 
White  or  greyish,  becoming  yellowish  or  brown;  usually 
remaining  closely  adherent  to  the  inner  coat. 

Inner  Coat — Thin  and  fragile  after  maturity,  breaking  up  into 
fragments. 

Subgleba — Shallow  or  none. 

Spores  and  Threads— Greenish  yellow,  then  brownish  olive.  Spores 
globose,  threads  long  and  branched. 

Time— August  to  September. 

Habitat— Grassy  places. 

Calvatia  maxima  has  been  known  as  Lycoperdon  giganteum, 
and  also  as  Lycoperdon  maxima.  It  has  been  transferred  from 
the  genus  Lycoperdon  to  the  genus  Calvatia  because  it  ruptures 
the  peridium  irregularly  to  discharge  its  spores,  instead  of  form- 
ing a  small  hole  at  the  apex,  as  other  Lycoperdons  do. 

It  is  asserted  on  good  authority  that  the  giant  puffball  has 
been  found  with  a  diameter  of  three  feet  and  a  weight  of  forty- 
seven  pounds.  The  giant  puffball  is  considered  by  many  as  a 
choice  article  of  food  when  the  flesh  is  white.  It  is  said  that 
if  the  flesh  of  a  growing  puffball  is  cut  or  injured  the  wounds 
will  fill  up  with  new  tissue.  It  will  be  interesting  for  some  one 
to  try  this  experiment. 

In  the  days  before  matches  came  into  use,  the  dry,  spongy 
threads  were  used  as  tinder  to  catch  the  sparks  which  flew  from 
the  flint-stone  when  it  was  struck  for  fire,  and  the  spore-dust 
was  used  to  stanch  the  flow  of  blood. 

127 


Puffballs 

Cup-shaped  Puffball  (Dangerous) 

Calvatia  cyatbiformis  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  134) 

Peridium — Large,  top-shaped. 

Bark  or  Outer  Coat — Thin,  adherent,  smooth,  and  continuous, 
easily  peeling  off. 

Inner  Coat — Pale  to  dark  purple,  loosely  woven,  fragile  at  matur- 
ity, breaking  up  into  fragments  from  above  downward. 

Subgleba — Short  and  thick,  with  cord-like  root,  persistent,  cup- 
shaped,  occupying  lA-Yz  the  peridium. 

Spores  and  Threads — Violet  to  dark  purple.  Spores  globose  and 
warted,  threads  long. 

Time — August  to  October. 

Habitat — On  the  ground  in  meadows  and  pastures. 

The  old  name  was  Lycoperdon  cyathiforme.  Cyathiforme, 
meaning  cup-shaped,  is  suggested  by  the  cup-like  base  which 
remains  after  the  dispersion  of  the  spores  and  threads  (capillitium). 


GENUS  BOyiSTA 

In  the  genus  Bo-vista  the  rind  or  peridium  opens  by  an  apical 
mouth,  as  do  the  species  of  Lycoperdon,   but  the  species  of 

Bovista  have  no 
sterile  base. 
They  are  puff- 
balls  of  small 


Bovista 


Section  of  Bovista 
(diagrammatic) 


size,      growing 

in     fields     and 

woods.      The 

outer     coat     is 

thin  and  fragile, 

and    scales    off 

at  maturity.      The  inner  coat  is  thin,   becoming  papery,   and 
then  opens  by  an  apical  mouth. 

Bovista  plumbea  is  esteemed  a  delicacy.  It  is  shaped  like  a 
flattened  globe,  with  a  smooth,  white  inner  coat,  and  a  lead- 
coloured  outer  coat  opening  by  an  apical  mouth. 


(^'-ath-l-for'-mls 


Bo-vKs'-ta 
128 


Genus  Geaster 


GENUS  BOVISTELLA 

The  genus  Bovistella  contains  but  one  species. 
Bovistella  OhienSlS  (Edible)(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  134) 

Peridium  or  Pouch — Globose  or  broadly  obovoid,  sometimes  much 

depressed,  wrinkled  underneath,  with  thick  cord-like  base. 
Bark  or  Outer  Coat—  Dense,  floccose,  or  with  soft  warts  or  spines. 

White  or  greyish,  drying 

to  buff  colour,  and  falling 

away. 
Inner  Coat—  Smooth,    shining, 

pale  brown  or  yellowish 

surface. 
Subgleba — Cup-shaped,     broad, 

ample,  occupying    nearly 

one-half    the     peridium ; 

long,  persistent. 


Threads 


Cup-shaped 
base 


Section  of  Bovistella  (diagrammatic) 


Spores  and  Capittitium — Loose, 

friable,    clay    colour. 

Threads  free,  short,  twice  branching,  originating  within  the 

spore  mass,  and  having  no  connection  with  the  tissue  of  the 

inner  coat. 
Habitat — On  ground  in  pastures  and  open  woods. 


GENUS  GEASTER 


Earth-stars 

The  Geasters  or  Earth-stars  are  the  most  picturesque  forms 
of  the  puffballs.  At  first  they  are  sunk  deep  in  the  soil,  and  are 
connected  with  it  by  abundant  thread-like  mycelium,  which 
issues  from  every  part  of  the  surface.  In  the  earth-stars  the 
covering  to  the  pouch  is  double,  the  outer  cover  is  thick  and 
leathery,  and  at  first  closely  invests  the  inner  coat,  but  is  separate 
from  it.  At  maturity  the  outer  coat  breaks  its  connection  with 
the  mycelium  in  the  soil  and  bursts  to  form  separate  lobes,  which 
become  reflexed  and  lift  the  inner  ball  from  the  ground  into  the 
air,  where  it  remains,  seated  at  the  centre  of  the  expanded  star- 


B6-vfa-teT-la 
9 


0-hi-eV-sfe 
129 


Ge-is'-te'r 


'Puff  balls 

like  coat.  The  coat  of  this  ball  is  thin  and  papery,  and  opens  by 
one  apical  mouth.  The  threads  or  capillitium,  which  bear  the 
spores,  project  from  the  tissue  of  the  inner  wall  and  also  from  a 
central  columella. 

The  Geasters  have  no  economic  value,  but  are  rather  inter- 
esting to  the  nature  student  on  account  of  their  beauty  and  their 
curious  methods  of  discharging  their  spores. 


The  Smallest  Earth-star 

> 

Geaster  minimus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  135) 


Peridium  or  Pouch — Globose,    depressed,    not    pointed;  vaulted 

underneath. 
Bark  or  Outer  Coat—  Segments  acute  at  the  apex,  many  lobed ; 

the  lobes,  seven  to  nine,  expanding  j^-i  inch. 
Inner  Coat — Ovoid,  %-i  inch  in  diameter,  white  to  pale  brown, 

with  a  distinct  pedicel,  seated  in  a  plain  circular  disk. 
Mouth — Lifted  on  a  cone,  lip  bordered  with  hair-like  fringe. 
Spores — Brown,  globe-shaped,  minutely  waited. 
Threads — Transparent. 
Habitat — Grassy  grounds. 


Water-measuring  Earth-star  (Dangerous) 

Geaster  hygrometricus  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  135) 

Peridium  or  Pouch — Sub-globose,  depressed,  the  bark  or  skin  fall- 
ing with  the  mycelium. 

Bark  or  Outer  Coat — Deeply  parted ;  the  segments,  acute  at  the 
apex,  seven  to  twenty.  Mrongly  hygrometric,  expanding  to 
a  breadth  of  2-3  inches. 

Inner  Coat — Globose,  depressed,  sessile,  covered  with  a  network. 
Whitish  or  greyish. 

Mouth — Rim  irregular. 

Spores — Brown,  globe-shaped,  minutely  warted. 

Threads — Transparent,  much  branched  and  interwoven  ;  continu- 
ous with  the  hyphae  or  threads  of  the  inner  coat, 

Habitat — Fields  and  woods,  in  sandy  soil. 

The  Geaster  hygrometricus,  or  Astrceus  hygrometricus  as  it 
is  called  by  some,  is  found  all  over  the  world.     When  the 

MXn'-I-mtts  Hf  .gr6-m«t'-rf-ctis 

130 


Genus  Calostoma 

weather  is  wet,  the  lining  of  the  points  of  the  star  become  gelati- 
nous and  lie  flat  on  the  ground,  anchoring  the  plant  firmly  ;  but 
when  the  weather  is  dry,  the  soft,  gelatinous  part  becomes  hard 
and  rigid,  and  curls  the  segments  up  around  the  inner  ball;  then 
the  wind  rolls  it  about,  and  it  scatters  its  spores  from  the  hole  in 
the  apex  of  the  ball  as  it  rolls.  It  is  a  fair-weather  traveller, 
always  resting  at  night  and  on  damp  days. 


GENUS   CALOSTOMA 


This  genus  has  but  three  known  American  species.  The 
plants  are  remarkable  in  structure  and  substance.  The  spore 
mass  or  gleba  lies  at  the  centre  of  a  base,  and  is  in  its  young 
stages  surrounded  by  four  layers.  The  outermost  coat  is  gelati- 
nous, and  soon  disappears.  This  is  known  as  the  volva  or 
wrapper.  The  layer  just  within  the  wrapper  also  soon  disap- 
pears ;  it  is  known  as  the  exoperidium.  The  layer  just  within 
the  exoperidium  is  known  as  the  endoperidium,  and  is  the  layer 
seen  on  the  exterior  of  older  specimens.  Between  the  exope- 
ridium and  endoperidium  is  a  layer  of  red  threads,  part  of  which 
is  torn  away  when  the  exoperidium  breaks,  and  a  part  of  which 
remains  as  a  red  star  at  the  apex  of  the  ball. 

The  exoperidium  is  cartilaginous  ;  it  is  thin  and  fragile  when 
dry,  but  when  wet  it  is  flexible,  translucent,  and  soft.  The 
endoperidium  is  hard  and  rigid  when  dry,  and  is  conspicuous  for 
the  brilliant  red  which  shows  at  its  mouth.  Within  the  endo- 
peridium is  a  sac  which  contains  the  spores ;  when  the  spores 
are  mature,  this  sac  contracts,  and  forces  the  spores  out  into  the 
air.  The  mycelium,  or  vegetative  part  of  the  Calostoma  plant,  is 
composed  of  numerous  cord-like  fibres,  translucent,  jelly-like, 
and  tough,  which,  branching  and  anastomosing  into  a  dense  net- 
work, form  a  rooting  columnar  base  to  the  spore-bearing  part  of 
the  plant.  The  name  Calostoma  means  beautiful  mouth,  referring 
to  the  red  star  which  surrounds  the  opening  through  which  the 
spores  escape. 

OU-5s'-t6-ma 


Puffballs 

e. 
Calostoma  lutescens 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  123) 

Ball  or  Peridium — Globular,  with  a  thick,  entangled,  rooting  base. 

Outer  Coat  or  Exoperidium — Dingy  yellow,  rupturing  so  as  to  form 
a  ragged  collar  at  the  base,  a  thin  cap  on  the  summit,  and 
small  fragments  between.  The  cap  is  marked  on  the  under 
side  with  a  vermilion  star  outlined  with  yellow. 

Inner  Coat  or  Endoperidtum — Smooth,  globular.      Pale  yellow. 

Mouth — With  several  rays  of  a  bright  red  colour. 

Footstalk — Thick,  of  entangled  strands  finer  than  those  of  C.  cin- 
nabarinum.  Stem  long,  yellowish  green. 

Spores — Globular,  with  protuberances. 


Calostoma  Ravenelii 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  123) 

Ball  or  Peridium — Globular,  with  a  thick,  entangled,  rooting  base., 
Outer  Coat  or  Exoperidium — Cartilaginous,  gelatinous.   Fragments 

remain  upon  the  inner  coat  in  the  form  of  irregular  warts  or 

scales. 
Inner  Coat  or  Endoperidium — Yellowish.     Tough  when  wet,  rigid 

when  dry. 
Mouth — Red  starred. 
Footstalk— Short  and  rooting,  composed  of  mycelial  threads  netted 

to  form  cartilaginous  cords. 
Spores — Elliptical,  oblong,  smooth. 


Calostoma  cinnabarinum 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  123) 

Outer  Coat  or  Exoperidium  —  Vermilion   within,   breaking  at  tfi£ 

base  and  sometimes  at  the  apex. 
Inner  Coat  or  Endoperidium  —  Yellowish,  often  slightly  vermilion. 

Smooth. 

Mouth  —  Rays  several.     Vermilion. 
Footstalk  —  Reddish  brown  or  brownish. 
Spores—  Elliptical   oblong,     spined    or    punctured,    pale    ochre 

yellow. 


Lti-t&>'-5«ns  Ri'-vgn-gl'-X-I  Cfa'-ni-bi-rl'-niim 

132 


Genus  Sclcroderma 

ORDER  NIDULARIALES 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  135) 

The  members  of  this  order,  Nidulariales,  or  bird's-nest  fungi, 
are  curious  fungi  of  small  size.  They  resemble,  when  mature,  tiny 
birds'  nests  containing  eggs,  as  the  pouch  in  which  the  spores  are 
developed  opens  at  the  top  to  form  a  nest  or  bowl  or  trumpet,  and 
the  globular  cases  in  which  the  spores  are  contained  have  strong 
walls,  and  remain  in  the  open  pouch  like  eggs  in  a  nest. 

One  genus  of  the  order,  Sphcerobolus,  has  two  walls  or  layers 
to  its  nest  and  but  one  spore  case  or  "egg."  This  "egg"  is 
jelly-like,  and  is  forcibly  thrown  from  the  nest  when  the  spores  in 
it  are  mature.  While  a  part  of  this  action  is  due  to  the  mechan- 
ical working  of  the  teeth,  it  is  thought  that  underneath  the  spore 
case  gases  are  formed  which  expand,  and  so  help  force  out  the 
"egg." 

The  other  genera  have  but  one  wall  to  their  nests.  The 
genus  Nidularia  has  ragged  edges,  the  genus  Cyathus  is  trumpet- 
shaped,  and  the  genus  Crucibulum  is  bowl-shaped. 


ORDER  SCLERODERMATALES 

The  puffballs  of  the  order  Sclerodermatales  have  the  rind 
or  peridium  thick.  The  spores  remain  in  the  peridium  until 
maturity,  when  they  escape  from  an  irregular  opening  in  the 
rind.  The  species  are  not  numerous,  but  some  are  abundant  and 
widely  distributed. 


GENUS  SCLERODERMA 

The  species  of  the  genus  Scleroderma,  or  thick-skinned  puff- 
balls,  represent  a  transition  from  the  subterranean  forms  to  those 
which  emerge  from  the  ground  and  have  a  definite  opening  from 
which  they  eject  their  spores.  To  illustrate :  there  is  one  group 
(Hymenogastrales)  in  which  the  species  remain  in  the  ground, 

Nld-u-la'-rf-a'-les        N*d-u-la'-rf-a       Cru-9fb'-ii-ltim 
Sphe-r6b'-a-liis  gy'-a-thtis  SclSr'-S-dSr'-ma-ta'-les 

133 


Poffballs 

even  when  mature,  unless  washed  out  by  rains  or  nosed  out  by 
animals,  and  which  rely  upon  being  crushed  by  accident  or  upon 
the  disintegration  of  their  rinds  to  free  their  spores.  All  true  puff- 
balls  push  themselves  out  of  the  ground  before  the  spores  are 
mature,  and  then,  by  rupturing  the  skin  in  a  definite  manner 
when  mature,  disperse  their  spores.  The  thick-skinned  puff- 
ball  goes  a  step  farther  than  the  first  mentioned  and  emerges 
from  the  ground ;  but  it  remains  behind  the  true  puffballs,  which 
disperse  their  spores  from  a  definite  opening,  for  it  ruptures  the 
skin  irregularly.  Scleroderma  bovista  is  dangerous. 

Scleroderma  vulgare  (Edible) 

(or  S.  aurantium) 

Peridium  or  Pouch — Rough  and  warty; 
depressed,  globose.  Pinkish  to 
buff,  remaining  solid  until  the 
fungus  is  quite  old.  Sessile  or 
with  a  rooting  base.  Ruptures 
irregularly  to  scatter  the  spores. 

Subgleba — None. 

Spore  Mass — Lead  colour  marbled  with 
white. 

JFfafa'taf—Old  stumps  and  buried  roots. 


Section  of  S.  vulgare 


This  fungus  has  been  eaten  without  harm,  but  is  pronounced 
very  unattractive. 


'.14 


Bovistella  Ohiensis,  Ellis  and  Morgan 
(Edible.)    Reduced 


CUP-SHAPED    CALVATIA   (EDIBLE) 

(Calvatia  cyathiformis,  Bosc) 
Reduced.    Nat  size:  Ball  diam..27a  inches 


LEAST    EARTH-STAR 
(Geaster  minimus,  Schw.    Nat.  size- 


WATER-MEASURING   EARTH-STAR 
(Geasfer  hygrometricus,  Pers.     Nat.  size) 


BIRD'S  NEST 

(Cyathus  vernicosus,  D.  C.     Nat.  size) 
See  page  133 


CHAPTER  XII:   SPORE-SAC  FUNGI— 
ASCOMYCETES 

ALL  the  fungi  which  belong  in  the  class  Ascomycetes  de- 
velop their  spores  in  little  membranous  sacs  called  asci.  These 
asci  are,  as  a  rule,  collected,  together 
with  slender  empty  asci,  called  para- 
physes,  in  variously  shaped  bodies, 
known  in  different  orders  by  different 
names,  such  as  perithecium,  ascoma, 
apothecium,  and  receptacle.  This  class 
includes  in  its  numbers  individuals 
ranging  in  size  from  microscopic  one- 
celled  plants  to  conspicuous  and  often 
beautiful  specimens.  We  shall  con- 
cern ourselves  with  but  a  few  of 


Asci 


Asci  and  paraphyses 


those  conspicuous  ones  which  are  attractive  either  from  an  edible 
or  an  artistic  standpoint. 

ORDER  TUBERALES— TRUFFLES 

The  order  Tuberales  contains  the  truffles,  which  are  subter- 
ranean fungi,  ranging  in  size  from  an  acorn  to  a  good-sized  po- 
tato.  The  asci  or  spore-sacs  are  formed 
on  the  inte- 
rior   of    the 
fungus,     the 
warty  truffle 
itself    being 
called  an  as- 
coma,  as    it 
contains  the 
asci. 

Since  the  time  of  Pliny  and  Dioscorides,  truffles  have  been 
known  and  esteemed  as  a  table  delicacy.     Since  they  mature 

Xs'-cS-my-ce'-tes  Tu'-Wr-a'-les 

135 


Section  to  show  position  of 
asci 


Truffles,  ascoma 


Spore-sac  Fungi — Ascomycetes 

underground,  they  must  be  hunted  for  by  dogs  and  pigs  trained 
for  the  purpose.  A  pig  will  scent  a  truffle  at  a  distance  of  twenty 
feet,  and  will  run  quickly  to  the  spot  to  dig  it  out  with  her  snout. 
An  attendant  must  follow  the  pig  to  secure  the  truffle  before  the 
pig  eats  it.  Edible  species  have  not  been  found  growing  in  this 
country. 


ORDER  HYPOCREALES 

(See  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  138) 

The  order  Hypocreales  contains  certain  fungi  which  are 
parasitic  on  other  fungi,  and  also  on  insects.  In  the  genus 
Cordyceps  there  is  a  club-like  form  about  an  inch  long,  and 
of  a  rich  red  colour,  which  lives  as  a  parasite  on  the 
pupae  of  various  moths  buried  beneath  dead  leaves.  In 
New  Zealand  a  similar  fungus  lives  on  caterpillars.  The 
mycelium  in  time  replaces  the  body,  but  maintains  out- 
wardly the  form  and  appearance  of  the  caterpillar.  These 
growths  are  much  prized  by  the  natives  as  food.  The 
form  which  grows  on  the  truffle-like  Elaphomyces  is  shown 
in  the  species  of  Elaphomyces  upon  which  the  Cordy- 
ceps lives  as  a  parasite  grow  two  or  three  inches  below 
the  surface  of  the  ground,  and  somewhat  resembles  a 
truffle  in  appearance. 

ORDER  SPH/ERIALES 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  123) 

The  Xylaria  pictured  is  a  woody  fungus  which  is 
common,  growing  on  logs  or  at  the  bases  of  trees  or 
stumps.     The  collections  of  asci  (perithecia)  are  fully  im- 
bedded in  the   fleshy  part  of 
the  fungus  (stroma),  which  is 
formed     almost     wholly     of 
Fungus  growing  on  caterpillar          hardened  mycelium. 

Hy-p6-cr«-a'-les       CSr'-dy^ps      E'-laph-o-my-ces      Sphe-rf-a'-les      Zy-la'-rf-a 

136 


Order  Pezizales— Cup  Fungi 

ORDER  PEZIZALES— CUP  FUNGI 

The  Females  or  cup  fungi,  which  are  typically  disk  or  cup- 
shape,  comprise  an  extensive  group,  and  vary  in  size  from  forms 
scarcely  visible  to  the  naked  eye  to  forms  several  inches  in 
diameter.  One  genus,  Pe^a,  has  a  smooth  ascomata,  regularly 
saucer-shaped  or  cup-shaped.  The  genus  contains  many  species 
which  are  met  with  chiefly  on  decaying  vegetable  matter.  The 
spore-sacs  are  situated  on  the  upper  surfaces  of  the  cups,  and  the 
spores  are  ejected  with  such  force  and  in  such  profusion  that  they 
form  a  cloud  around  the  plant  from  which  they  are  expelled. 

Pe^a  ceruginosa  is  a  stalked  green  form,  and  is  interesting 
because  it  permeates  the  wood  of  oaks  and  beeches  with  its 
mycelium,  and  gives  a  rich  green  colour  to  the  wood,  which 
makes  it  valuable  for  the  manufacture  of  the  famous  "Tunbridge 
ware."  One  may  often  find  the  wood  affected  when  the  fruit 
cups  are  not  evident.  Pe^a  Willkommii  produces  on  larch  trees 
a  disease  known  as  the  "larch  canker,"  which  shows  itself  as  a 
sunken,  blistered  hole  from  which  resin  flows.  This  patch  is 
formed  because  the  mycelium  of  the  fungus  attacks  and  destroys 
the  cambium  or  green  layer  which  lies  under  the  brown  bark, 
and  since  this  is  the  tissue  which  builds  up  the  wood  of  the 
trees,  the  growth  of  wood  in  this  part  is  prevented.  The  fruits 
appear  above  the  bark  in  the  form  of  little  cups,  white  outside 
and  scarlet  within.  When  branches  bearing  golden-yellow 
needles  are  seen  among  the  fresh  green  shoots  of  a  larch,  pre- 
maturely giving  to  the  tree  an  autumnal  appearance,  one  may 
expect  to  find  Peqiqa  Willkommii  at  work. 

Peziza   odorata  (Edible)    (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  139) 

Cup — Yellowish,  translucent,  becoming 
dull  brown  when  old.  The  flesh 
is  moist  and  watery,  and  separable 
into  two  layers;  the  outer  layer 
rough,  and  the  inner  smooth.  The 
frame  is  cup-shaped  when  young, 
but  flattened  and  split  on  the  mar- 
gin when  old. 

E'-ru-gln-o'-sa        Wfl-kBm'-M        O'-dfir-a'-ti          Section  to  show  two  layers 

137 


Spore-sac  Fungi—  Ascomycetes 

Stem  —  None. 

Habitat—  The  specimen  pictured  was  found  in  December,  among 
the  violets  in  a  cold  frame  in  New  Jersey. 

Golden  Peziza  (Edible) 

aurantia  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  139) 


Cup  —  Orange  red  within,  golden  or  whitish  outside,  with  a 

frosted  appearance.     Subsessile,  irregular. 
Habitat  —  In  clusters  on  the  ground,  usually  in  the  autumn. 

ORDER    HELYELL  ALES—  EAR  TH-  TONGUES 

The  order  Helvellales  contains  the  fleshy  spore-sac  fungi 
which  have  the  spore-bearing  body,  the  ascoma,  open  from  the 
earliest  stage  of  its  development. 

FAMILY  GEOGLOSSACE/E 

The  family  Geoglossacece,  which  belongs  to  this  order,  con- 
tains the  earth-tongues,  which  are  club-like  forms,  green  or 
black  or  yellow,  and  from  one  to  three  inches  high,  common  on 
the  ground,  growing  in  rich  wood  mould.  In  consistency  they 
are  fleshy,  gelatinous,  or  waxy,  and  their  asci  open  by  means 
of  a  terminal  pore. 

GENUS  SPATHULARIA 

The  genus  Spathularia  has  the  spore  body  flattened  and 
growing  down  both  sides  of  the  stem. 

Velvety  Spathularia 

Spathularia  velutipes  (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  123} 

Spore  Body  —  Flattened,  tawny  yellow,  shaped  like  a  spatula,  with 
the  spore  surface  wavy  and  growing  down  two  sides  of  the 
stem. 

Stem  —  Hollow,  minutely  velvety,  dark  brown  tinged  with  yellow. 

Flesh  —  Firm  and  tough,  shrinking  little  in  drying. 

Habitat—  Mossy  trunks  in  damp  woods. 

Au.rin'-shK-*  Ve-ia'-tf-pes 

138 


Cordyceps   capitala  (Holmsk.),  Lk 
i  Parasitic  on  Elaphomyces. 


Floccose  Chanterelle  (ediblej. 
(Cantharellus  floccosus,  Schw.) 

See  page  53. 


Mutinus   Caninus,    Huds. 

See  page  uo. 


Golden  Peziza  (edible). 
(Peziza  aurantia,  Pers.) 


P" 


Peziza  cdorata.  Pk.  (edible). 
Reduced.     See  page   137. 


Genus  Vibrissea 


Spathularia  clavata 

Spore  Body — Clear  yellow,  shaped  like  a  spatula,  sometimes  tinged 
with  red.  Obtuse  or  cleft  at  the  apex,  the  surface  wavy, 
the  margin  crisped,  growing  down  the  stem  some  distance 
on  opposite  sides  ;  hollow. 

Stem — Thick,  hollow.     White,  often  becoming  yellowish. 

Flesh— Dry. 

GENUS   GEOGLOSSUM 

The  genus  Geoglossum  has  the  spore  body  simple,  erect, 
and  club-shaped,  and  entirely  black.  The  spore  surface  is  ter- 
minal. 

Geoglossum  hirsutum 

Geoglossum  hirsutum  is  black,  dry,  and  everywhere  velvety. 
Lanceolate,  ovate,  oblong,  or  almost  round,  often  irregular.  The 
spore-bearing  portion  is  one-quarter  to  one-half  the  length  of  the 
fungus. 

Geoglossum  glabrum 

Geoglossum  glabrum  is  dry,  black,  or  brownish  black,  some- 
times tinged  with  olive  or  purple.  Club-shaped  or  sometimes 
laterally  compressed.  The  spore-bearing  portion  not  sharply 
distinct  from  the  stem  below. 

GENUS  VIBRISSEA 

The  genus  Wbrissea  contains  fungi  with  vertical  and  simple 
stems,  and  horizontal  caps  with  their  thick  margins  rolled  in  to- 
ward the  stem.  The  spore-sacs  are  borne  on  the  upper  surface. 

Vibrissea  truncorum 

Wbrissea  truncorum  is  a  clear  orange-red  or  sometimes  yel- 
low or  brownish-red  fungus,  about  an  inch  high,  found  on 
decayed  wood,  branches,  or  leaves  which  are  submerged  in 
water. 

Clav-a'-ta  mr-su'-tflm  Vl-brfs'-sg-* 

Ge-6-gl6s'-stira  Gla'-brum  Trfin-co'-riim 

139 


Spore-sac  Fungi— Ascomycetes 


Vibrissea  circinans 

Vibrisseacircinans'is  a  pale  yellowish  flesh  colour,  or  simply 
yellowish  fleshy  fungus  found  growing  in  circles  or  clusters, 
with  convex  caps  and  incurved,  wavy  margins,  the  concave  under 
surface  often  minutely  wrinkled.  The  stem  is  long,  pallid,  or 
reddish.  The  plant  is  found  chiefly  in  pine  woods. 

GENUS  MITRULA 

The  genus  Mitrula  has  the  spore  body  erect,  black  or  bright 
coloured,  and  dry,  spatulate,  or  cylindrical,  often  compressed  lat- 
erally. The  spore-bearing  surface  is  sharply  distinct  from  the 
scaly  or  mealy  stem  below. 

Irregular  Mitrula  (Edible) 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  146) 
Mitrula  vitellina,  var.  irregularis  * 

Spore  Body — Bright  egg  yellow.  Club-shaped,  somewhat  lobed, 
cylindrical  or  compressed  ;  apex  narrow,  obtuse,  smooth. 
No  two  plants  are  quite  alike.  Length,  1-2  inches. 

Stem — Short,  white,  rather  distinct,  covered  with  fibres.  Spongy 
and  white  within. 

Habitat — In  mossy  places  in  woods  during  the  autumn.  The 
specimen  pictured  was  found  growing  among  fallen  birch 
leaves,  hemlock  needles,  and  moss,  in  the  dense  woods  at 
Lake  Placid. 

FAMILY  HELVELLACE/E—  MORELS 

A  second  family  Helvellacece  contains  three  important  gen- 
era, Morchella,  Gyromitra,  and  Helvetia,  in  which  are  the  largest 
and  most  highly  prized  spore-sac  fungi  known.  They  are  dis- 
tinguished from  the  earth-tongues  by  the  cap-like  form  of  the 
spore  body  or  ascoma,  but  especially  by  the  character  of  the 
spore-sac,  which  opens  by  a  little  lid  instead  of  by  a  simple  pore. 

gir-cl'-nans  Vl'-tgl-ll'-nS  Gy'-ro-ml'-trS 

MKt'-rfi-ia  M6r-keT-lS  Hel-veT-li 

*  This  species  is  also  described  under  the  names  Gcoglossum  irregulare  and 
Getghssum  vittllinum. 

140 


Genus  Morchella 


GENUS  GYROMITRA 

The  genus  Gyromitra  contains  seven  species.  These  have  the 
ascomata  distinctly  stalked,  and  the  upper  surface  covered  with 
gyrose  folds.  The  largest  spore-sac  fungi  belong  in  this  genus. 

Gyromitra  esculenta  (Dangerous) 

Cap— Bay  red,  round,  lobed,  irregular, 

gyrose-wrinkled,    attached    to    the 

stem    in    several    places.    Hollow, 

white,  and  uneven  within. 
Stem — Whitish,  hollow,  scurfy.    Two  or 

more  inches  long. 
Flesh—  Edible    only    when    young    and 

freshly  gathered. 
Habitat — In  sandy  soil,  during  the  wet 

weather  of  May  and  June. 
This  species  is  on  Peck's  List  of  Edible 
Mushrooms,  but  it  is  also  on  the  U.  S. 
Dep't.  of  Agriculture  List  of  Poisonous  or  Suspected  Mushrooms. 


G.  esculenta 


M.  deliciosa 

Section  to  show  margin  of  the 
cap  united  to  the  stem. 


GENUS  MORCHELLA 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  1 50) 

The  genus  Morchella  has  the 
cap  covered  with  a  network  of  blunt 
ridges  enclosing  irregular  depressed 
spaces.  The  spore-sacs  are  devel- 
oped in  both  ridges  and  depressions. 
All  the  species  when  young  are 
of  a  buff  yellow  tinged 
with  brown,  but  later 
they  are  darker.  The 
stems  are  rather  stout 
and  hollow,  white  or 
whitish  in  some  spe- 
cies, and  attached  to 
the  cap  at  the  apex 
only;  but  in  others, 
attached  to  the  rim 
as  well.  All  the  species  M.  esculenta 
141 


Spore-sac  Fungi — Ascomycetes 

are  edible  and  highly  esteemed.  They  must  be  looked  for  during 
wet  weather,  early  in  the  season.  They  may  be  classed  in  two 
groups,  according  to  the  attachment  of  the  stem. 


I— MARGIN   OF  CAP   UNITED  TO  THE  STEM 

Cap  rounded  or  oval MORCHELLA  ESCULENTA 

Cap  oblong  or  cylindrical MORCHELLA  DELICIOSA 

Cap  conical  or  oblong  conical  ;  broader  than  stem MORCHELLA  CONICA 

Cap  conical  or  oblong  conical  ;  scarcely  broader  than  stem.  MORCHELLA  ANGUSTICEPS 


II— MARGIN   OF  CAP  FREE   FROM  THE  STEM 

Cap  free  from  the  stem  to  the  middle MORCHELLA  SEMILIBERA 

Cap  free  from  the  stem  to  the  top MORCHELLA  BISPORA 


GENUS  HELVELLA 

The  genus  Helvetia  contains  twelve  species.  They 
all  have  lobed,  irregular,  or  saddle-shaped  caps,  which 
are  fleshy,  and  attached  to  the  stem  at  the  apex.  They 
are  contorted  in  such  a  way  that  no  two  of  the  species 
appear  alike. 

Helvella 


Helvella  elastica 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  146) 

Cap— Brownish  grey.     Cup-shaped,  flattening  out  when  mature  ; 

when  young,  the  under  surface  is  covered  with  little  spines 

or  hairs.     Both  surfaces  are  smooth  when  mature. 
Stem — Slender,  of  the  same  colour  as  the  cap,  tapering  toward 

the  cap.     Solid  and  white  within. 
Habitat—  The  specimen   pictured  was  found  growing  beneath 

hemlocks  and  yellow  birches,  in  Lake  Placid  forest,  during 

September. 

Dg-Hsh-K-o'-si  An-giis'-rt-9eps  Bi'-sp6r-4 

Con'J-c*  Se'm'-Mlb'-e'r-a  E-lHs'-tfc-i 

142 


FLESH-COLOURED   PUFFBALL  (EDIBLE) 

(Lycoptrdon  sMncarnalum,  Peck).    Averages  less  than  one  inch  in  diameter 
See  page  T2? 


YOUNQ  PEAR-SHAPEP  PUFFBALL  (EDIBLE) 

(LycQperdon  pyriforme,  Schaeff).     piarneter,  %-l%  inches;  height,  V<i  inch 
See  page  125 


HARD-SKINNED   PUFFBALU 
(Scleroderma  vu/j?are.  Fries) 


SLIPPERY    LEOTIA  (EDIBLE) 
(Leotta  lubrica  (Scop.),  Pcrs.) 

Gelatinous,  gristly  ;  spore-bearing   body  (ascoma),  green   or   yellow  ;    stem  yellow 
Family,  Geoglossaccce.    Class,  Ascomycetes.    Order,  Helrellales.    See  p.  138 


JELLY-LIKE  TREMELLODON    (EDIBLE,    Mel.) 

(Tremellodon  gelatinosum) 
Surface  white  to  grey:  teeth  white.    Class,  Basidiomycetes.    Order,    Tremellales.    See  Genus,  p.  n6 


Genus  Helvetia 


Attachment 
of  stem 


Helvella  laCUnOSa    (SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  146) 

Cap— Of  one  piece,  thin  and  flexible  like  rubber  cloth,  folded  to 
saddle  the  apex  of  the  stem.  The  two  saddle-flaps  are  at- 
tached on  their 
margins  at  irreg- 
ular intervals 
when  young,  and 
are  puffed  out 
like  a  balloon ; 
but  when  ma- 
ture, the  pieces 
separate.  Their 
outer  surface  is 
brownish  grey, 
and  their  inner 
surf  a  ce  light 
grey,  creased  and 
folded. 

Stem — Irregularly   and 
deeply  furrowed. 

Flesh — Odour  offen- 
sive. 

Habitat —  The  speci- 
men pictured  was 
found  growing 

imbedded  in  deep  moss  on  old  bark  in  the  Lake  Placid 
woods. 

LXc-ti-no'-si 


Stem 


H.  lacunosa  (diagrammatic) 


CHAPTER    XIII:    SLIME    FUNGI-MYXO- 
MYCETES 

(SEE  PLATE  FACING  PAGE  138) 

WHETHER  the  slime  fungi  are  plants  or  animals  is  a  question 
Tiot  yet  decided.  They  are  living  organisms  which  have  no 
chlorophyll,  or  leaf-green,  and  which  in  their  vegetative  state 
resemble  certain  groups  of  the  Protozoa,  or  unicellular  animals, 
which  live  in  water.  In  their  manner  of  reproduction  they  show 
resemblances  to  certain  fungi,  and  the  spore  cases  or  sporangia 
of  some  resemble  tiny  puffballs  in  form  and  manner  of  ejecting 
their  spores. 

In  the  growing  stage  they  consist  of  a  naked  mass  of  yel- 
lowish or  whitish  protoplasm,  which  creeps  about  in  the  dark,  in 
accumulations  of  dead  parts  of  plants,  or  under  the  bark  of 
rotting  stumps  or  logs.  When  a  spore  germinates,  the  mem- 
brane about  it  bursts,  and  a  bit  of  naked  and  slimy  protoplasm 
escapes.  This  tiny  mass  creeps  about,  absorbing  food  from  its 
surroundings,  and  increasing  in  size  until  it  may  perhaps  cover 
an  area  of  many  inches.  After  a  time  spores  begin  to  form,  then 
either  the  whole  mass  is  transformed  into  a  single  spore  case  or  a 
number  of  spore  cases  are  formed.  The  spore  cases  of  Lycogala 
epidendron  are  pretty  things,  resembling  pink  coral  beads.  When 
fresh,  a  case  is  filled  with  a  thin  pink  paste;  but  when  mature, 
with  fine  brown  dust-like  spores.  When  the  spore  case  bursts, 
these  spores  escape,  and  if  they  fall  in  favourable  places  the  life 
cycle  begins  anew. 

Mjrx'-o-my-je'-tes         Pro-to-zo'-i         Ly-c6g'-i-l& 


144 


CHAPTER  XIV  :  FUNGI  FOR  THE  HERBARIUM 

THERE  are  no  plants  more  difficult  to  preserve  for  an  her- 
barium than  the  fleshy  fungi,  and  yet  my  personal  observation 
leads  me  to  believe  that  there  are  many  people  who  would  be 
willing  to  undertake  the  task  if  they  knew  how  to  set  about  it; 
and  there  is  no  class  of  plants  in  which  the  assistance  of  the 
amateur  may  help  the  botanist  more  than  in  this,  provided  that, 
at  the  time  of  gathering  a  specimen,  full  descriptive  notes  are 
made  of  all  the  characteristics  of  the  plant. 

To  aid  one  in  quickly  taking  notes,  it  is  well  to  have  with 
one  in  the  field  some  printed  or  written  blanks.  A  convenient 
form  is  suggested  by  the  following  outline,  which  is  the  one 
used  by  the  Boston  Mycological  Club  : 

Species 
Collected  by 
No. 

Locality 
Date 

COLLECTOR'S  NOTES. 

N.B. — When  collecting,  be  sure  to  get  the  whole  plant,  base  and  all,  uninjured; 
and  to  get  young  as  well  as  mature  specimens. 

Note  here  at  once  the 


•  >    i_ij.          /-.    (  Tree  (kind:  dead  or  living). 

Habitat.    On|Gro^d(k.'ndofsoJ1) 


Place  (wood,  field,  wet  or  dry,  high  land  or  low,  etc.). 
Under  and  near  what  trees  ? 

Manner  Of     j  (Solitary,   in  clusters,  troops,  or  caespitose  [growing  from  one 
Growth.       1      root]). 

Character.       (Viscid,  hygrophanous  [transparent  when  moist],  dry.) 
Smell. 
Taste. 

Spores.  Colour. 

NOTE.— -If  the  plant  is  perishable,  sketch  anJ  describe  it  fully  at  once,  and  look 
10  H5 


Fungi  for  the  Herbarium 

for  indications  of  spore  colour.     After  the  plant  is  described  it  may  be  dried  in  hot 
air  (over  a  stove  for  instance)  and  preserved  or  sent  in  for  identification. 

Sketch  the  plant,  indicating  markings  of  cap  and  stem.  Draw  or  trace  a  vertical 
section  through  the  centre  of  cap  and  stem,  indicating  thickness  of  flesh;  shape  and 
attachment  of  gills;  nature  of  interior  of  stem;  position  of  ring,  volva,  etc.  Do  this 
also  for  a  young  specimen  (button),  showing  whether  the  margin  of  the  pileus  is 
straight  or  incurved. 

N.B. — If  not  life  size,  note  dimensions. 


When  the  characters  vary  with  age  or  with  moisture,  note  the  changes. 
Pileus. 


( Shape  (flat,  convex,  concave,  umbonate  [raised  in  the  centre], 
(      umbilicate  [depressed  in  the  centre],  etc.). 


Is  it  viscid  when  moist  and  fresh;  tough,  fragile,  fleshy,  mem- 
branaceous;  smooth,  floccose,  scaly,  silky,  fibrillose;  even, 
rough,  wrinkled,  furrowed  ?  etc. 

Is  the  margin  entire,  wavy,  striate,  inrolled,  upturned,  smooth, 
woolly,  hairy,  appendiculate  ?  etc. 

Colour  and  markings. 
GUIS.  Shape. 

Attachment  (adnate,  sinuate,  decurrent,  etc.,  or  free). 

Are  they  distant  or  crowded,  all  of  one  length,  branching  or 
forked,  connected  by  veins  ? 

Surface  (smooth,  powdery,  marked  in  any  way). 

Colour  (young  and  old). 

Texture  (thick,  thin,  brittle,  etc.). 

Margin  (entire,  wavy,  scalloped,  toothed,  fringed). 

With  Boleti  note  colour,  length,  and  size  of  tubes,  shape  and  size 
of  mouths,  relation  of  pore  surface  to  stem,  etc. 

Flesh.  Consistency  (firm,  mealy,  punky,  etc.). 

Colour  (in  general;  just  under  skin;  near  gills  or  tubes). 

Juice  (taste  and  colour). 
Stem.  Texture  (tough,  flexuous,  fragile,  fleshy). 

Shape  (tapering  either  way,  straight  or  bent,  swollen,  etc.). 

Exterior  (cartilaginous,  fibrous  or  not,  etc.). 

Colour  and  markings  (striate,  dotted,  pruinose  [with  a  bloom], 
fibrillose,  or  smooth,  etc.). 

Interior  (hollow,  solid,  stuffed,  fistulose  [tubular],  etc.). 
Base  (shape,  markings,  etc.). 
146 


Helvella  elastica,  Bul'l.      Reduced.  See  page  I  42. 


Helvella  lacunosa,  Holm.      Reduced.  See  pacre  143- 


Mitruia  viiemaa,  sacc.,  var.  irregularis,  Pk.  (edible).     Length,  1-2  inches. 


Fungi  for  the  Herbarium 

Mycelium  (thread-like,  cottony,  compact,  root-like,  sclerotioid 
[hard],  coloured). 

Veil.  (Examine  young  specimens). 

_.  j  (Relative  position,  permanent  or  fugacious  [quickly  disappearing], 

1     etc.). 

Volva.  (Examine  young  buttons,  base  of  stem,  surface  of  pileus). 

Remarks. 

COLLECTOR'S  OUTFIT. — For  collecting  fungi  there  is  nothing 
better  than  a  cheap  splint  basket  with  a  cover.  The  size  will 
depend  upon  the  ambition  and  strength  of  the  collector.  In  ad- 
dition, a  chisel  for  woody  fungi  and  a  trowel  or  broad-bladed 
knife  will  be  found  convenient ;  also  a  few  small  boxes  for 
fragile  species,  and  a  package  of  thin,  tough,  uncoloured  paper 
in  which  other  specimens  may  be  put.  Sheets  of  six  inches 
square  and  also  of  twelve  by  twenty-four  are  convenient  sizes. 
Before  the  specimens  are  put  in  the  basket,  those  of  a  kind  should 
be  compactly  piled  in  the  centre  of  a  sheet,  and  the  four  corners 
of  the  sheet  brought  together  and  fastened  by  twisting  them. 
The  slip  with  the  notes  may  either  be  put  inside  the  package  or 
fastened  on  the  outside. 

CARE  OF  SPECIMENS. — As  soon  as  possible  after  reaching 
home,  the  packages  should  be  taken  from  the  basket  and  spread 
out  in  convenient  places.  If  the  specimens  are  to  be  used  imme- 
diately for  identification,  begin  with  the  most  perishable,  or  they 
will  be  lost  by  decay.  If  they  are  to  be  preserved  for  future  use, 
put  them  in  the  warmest  place  available  where  they  will  not 
burn.  This  may  be  under  .or  over  the  kitchen  stove,  or  in  the 
furnace-room  of  the  hotel  or  laundry ;  or,  if  any  of  these  places  is 
not  practicable,  then  a  drier  may  be  improvised  by  placing  over 
a  lamp  a  frame  made  of  wire  screening. 

COLLECTING  SPORES. — At  least  one  specimen  of  each  kind 
should  be  set  for  spores.  This  is  readily  done  by  thrusting  the 
stem  of  one  plant  through  a  hole  in  a  disk  of  gummed  paper  so 
that  the  paper  fits  closely  against  the  gills.  This  disk  may  be 
held  in  place  by  thrusting  the  stem  of  the  fungus  through  a  piece 
of  thin  paper  and  then  bringing  the  paper  above  the  cap  and 
twisting  the  corners.  Use  white  disks  for  fungi  suspected  of 
having  coloured  spores,  and  coloured  paper  for  those  suspected  of 

H7 


Fungi  for  the  Herbarium 

having  white  spores.  If  there  is  any  doubt,  set  two  fungi — one 
with  a  coloured  disk  and  the  other  with  a  white  one. 

It  is  an  easy  matter  to  fix  spores  for  future  use,  but  a  more 
difficult  matter  to  fix  them  so  that  they  represent  a  picture  of  the 
radiating  gills.  In  order  to  do  this  the  stem  must  be  cut  from 
the  cap,  and  the  cap  must  be  so  arranged  over  the  paper  that  no 
draughts  shall  disturb  the  spores  as  they  fall,  and  also  so  that  it 
may  be  removed  from  the  paper  without  disturbing  the  spores 
after  they  have  fallen.  The  writer  would  suggest  that  two  fine 
wires  should  be  thrust  horizontally  and  at  right  angles  to  each 
other  through  the  cap,  and  that  the  ends  of  the  wires  should  be 
supported  in  a  convenient  manner,  so  that  the  cap  may  just 
swing  free  from  the  paper  which  is  to  receive  the  spores.  The 
whole  must  be  covered  to  keep  the  spores  from  being  disturbed 
by  draughts.  When  the  spores  have  fallen,  the  cover  can  be  re- 
moved, the  cap  raised,  and  the  spore-print  fixed. 

Various  methods  of  fixing  spores  for  prints  are  recommended. 
The  following  are  quoted  from  a  bulletin  of  the  Boston  Mycolog- 
ical  Club  : 

The  following  directions  for  fixing  spore  prints  are  taken  from  Herpel  ("Das 
Prapariren  der  Hutpilze  "). 

Paper  which  is  somewhat  absorbent  must  be  used;  unglazed  blue  or  black  paper 
(of  which  the  colour  must  be  unaffected  by  the  fixative)  for  white-spored  species. 
The  piece  of  paper  bearing  the  spore  print  is  to  be  laid,  spores  upward,  in  a  flat  plate 
or  platter  on  which  a  thin  layer  of  fixative  has  first  been  poured.  The  fixative  is  al- 
lowed to  soak  up  through  from  below,  and  should  not  overflow  the  edges  of  the 
paper.  When  it  is  certain  that  the  spores  as  well  as  the  paper  are  thoroughly  soaked, 
the  preparation  is  removed  and  dried ;  sometimes,  to  prevent  sticking,  being  laid  on 
moistened  blotting-paper. 

The  fixative  to  be  used  will  vary  with  the  species.  For  instance,  the  spores  of 
Cantharellus  cibarius  and  some  others  may  be  fixed  by  water  alone.  The  following 
solution  is  recommended  for  Boleti  and  species  with  coloured  spores:  One  partsan- 
darac,  two  parts  mastic,  and  two  parts  Canada  balsam,  dissolved  in  thirty  parts  of 
ninety-five  per  cent,  alcohol.  In  the  use  of  this  it  has  been  found  that  the  time  of 
soaking  necessary  to  fix  the  spores  is  for  Boleti,\.vto  minutes;  Dermini,  Coprinarii, 
Gomphidius,  Paxillus,  Russula^  and  Lactariust  four  to  five  minutes;  pink-spored 
agarics,  also  dark  brown  spored  (as  the  meadow  mushroom),  and  Cortinarii,  six  to 
eight  minutes.  It  is  important  that  the  alcohol  should  be  full  strength. 

A  gelatine  solution  is  useful  for  white-spored  species.  This  is  prepared  and  used 
warm.  Its  strength  varies  with  the  species.  Lepiota  procera,  Collybia  radicata,  and 
Clitocybe  laccata  may  be  fixed  by  a  solution  of  one  part  gelatine  to  thirty  of  water. 
For  species  of  Tricholoma  this  is  too  strong,  and  one  to  sixty,  or  one  to  two  hun- 
dred must  be  the  formula.  The  difficulty  arises  here  from  the  fact  that  an  excess  of 

148 


Fungi  for  the  Herbariun 

gelatine  makes  the  spores  transparent  and  even  invisible.  Their  opacity  may  be 
secured  by  previous  treatment  with  a  solution  of  one  part  mastic  in  thirty  of  ether. 

For  certain  kinds  (Tricholoma  personatum,  Lepiota  granulosa,  Amanitopsis 
vaginata,  and  others  which  experiment  will  discover),  ten  to  twenty-five  per  cent, 
of  alcohol  must  be  added  to  the  gelatine  solution  in  order  to  make  the  spores  adhere. 

Experience  will  doubtless  show  that  other  fixatives  may  be  used.  Gum  arable, 
for  instance,  suggests  itself.  This,  however,  if  strong,  is  apt  to  cake  the  spores  to- 
gether. If  one  method  fails,  invention  and  repeated  trials  must  find  a  successful 
means.  Reports  are  requested  from  all  who  engage  in  the  amusement  of  making 
spore  prints.  To  these  a  suggestion  not  without  value  is  that  dry  agarics  (like 
Marasmius  and  some  Collybias)  may  be  kept  in  a  condition  to  shed  spores  by  putting 
moistened  blotting-paper  under  them. 

Another  method  of  making  spore  prints  is  to  spray  them 
from  an  atomizer  with  a  solution  of  white  shellac  in  alcohol. 
A  saturated  solution  should  be  made,  and  then  diluted  fifty  per 
cent,  with  alcohol. 

THE  SEARCH  FOR  A  NAME. — When  looking  up  a  name  for  a 
plant,  the  best  plan  is  to  use  fresh  specimens,  and,  if  a  good 
supply  can  be  had,  make  a  careful  comparison  of  all,  so  as  to  be 
sure  that  the  characteristics  are  normal  and  not  due  to  injury. 
If  the  attempt  to  find  a  satisfactory  description  is  not  successful, 
preserve  the  specimens  dried,  together  with  full  notes,  and  send 
a  part  of  them  to  the  State  botanist  for  determination. 

The  name  of  a  fungus  is  not  the  vital  thing.  In  pursuit  of  a 
name  do  not  neglect  the  plant.  Observe  it  as  it  grows  and  in 
its  different  stages.  Make  a  friend  of  it,  and  you  will  find  it 
good  company. 

THE  PREPARATION  OF  ROUGH-DRIED  PLANTS  FOR  THE  HERBA- 
RIUM— Put  the  dried  plants  in  a  place  where  they  will  absorb  just 
moisture  enough  to  make  them  pliant.  Either  put  them  in  a  box 
containing  something  damp,  as  a  wet  sponge,  sand,  or  paper;  or 
spread  them  where  they  can  absorb  the  moisture  of  the  atmos- 
phere without  getting  too  wet.  When  pliant,  bend  the  stem  and 
cap  so  that  they  lie  in  the  same  plane,  and  arrange  them  in  as 
natural  a  form  as  possible ;  then  place  them  between  driers  of  un- 
glazed  paper,  with  a  weight  just  sufficient  to  keep  them  from 
curling  out  of  shape. 

MOUNTING — The  specimens  may  be  placed  loose  in  envelopes 
made  by  folding  paper  as  for  mosses  or  lichens,  or  they  may  be 
glued  directly  to  mounting  sheets,  or  they  may  be  kept  in  boxes 
of  varying  sizes. 

149 


Fungi  for  the  Herbarium 

SECTIONS — A  section  of  a  fungus  Is  a  very  thin  slice  cut  from 
the  plant  by  running  a  thin-bladed  knife  from  the  top  of  the  cap 
down  through  the  stem.  When  well  made,  sections  of  young 
and  mature  plants  are  valuable  in  addition  to  the  notes  and  dried 
specimens.  A  section  to  be  of  any  value  must  show  the  form  of 
the  cap;  the  attachment  of  the  gills  to  the  stem;  the  thickness  of 
the  stem ;  and  the  interior,  whether  solid,  hollow,  or  stuffed. 
To  preserve  the  section,  it  must  be  placed,  while  fresh,  upon 
a  sheet  of  gummed  paper,  and  then  covered  with  a  sheet  of 
waxed  paper,  and  placed  between  driers,  under  heavy  pressure. 

POISONING  HERBARIUM  SPECIMENS — It  will  be  found  necessary 
to  use  every  means  possible  to  keep  insects  from  the  herbarium, 
as  fungi  are  particularly  subject  to  such  pests.  In  order  that  no 
eggs  and  larvse  may  be  packed  away  with  the  dried  plants,  it 
will  be  well  to  apply  a  poisonous  solution  to  the  specimens  just 
after  they  have  been  moistened  to  be  put  into  press.  Professor 
Peck,  the  State  botanist  of  New  York,  uses  a  solution  made  by 
dissolving  strychnine  in  warm  water,  and  then  adding  alcohol 
in  sufficient  quantities  to  make  the  mixture  spread  easily  with  a 
brush. 

Sulphate  of  strychnia ^  ounce 

Warm  water 4  or  5  ounces 

Alcohol About  2  ounces 

In  addition  to  this  precaution,  the  specimens  must  be  kept 
where  insects  cannot  get  at  them,  or  the  havoc  which  they  make 
will  be  disastrous.  An  ingenious  person  can  improvise  all  the 
apparatus  necessary  for  a  successful  collection  of  moderate  size; 
and  then,  if  his  enthusiasm  continues,  he  can  provide  himself 
with  everything  of  the  most  improved  style  from  dealers  who 
make  a  specialty  of  botanical  supplies. 


ISO 


DELICIOUS   MOREL  (EDIBLE) 
(Morchelia.  deliciosa^  Fr.) 


Polyforus  arcularius,  (Batsch)  Fries 
See  page  112 


BRISTLY  PANUS 

(Panusstrigosus,  B.  &  C.;  Lentinus  strigosus) 
Cap,  gills,  and  stem  creamy.    See  Genus,  p.  67 


CHAPTER  XV  :  FUNGI  FOR  THE  TABLE 

BEFORE  you  attempt  to  use  fungi  for  the  table  be  sure  that 
they  are  edible  ;  the  consequences  which  follow  a  mistake  are 
too  serious  to  warrant  any  risks.  Unless  you  are  experienced  in 
making  careful  observations  and  comparisons,  eat  only  those 
fungi  which  have  been  shown  to  you  by  some  one  who  has  tried 
them  and  knows  them  to  be  wholesome.  If  you  are  experienced 
in  making  careful  observations  and  comparisons,  and  wish  to 
make  experiments,  make  them  cautiously,  using  a  small  quantity 
of  the  fungus  for  the  first  trial,  and,  if  no  ill  effects  are  felt,  in- 
crease the  amount  until  you  are  satisfied  as  to  its  edibility. 

There  is  no  general  rule  by  which  one  may  know  an  edible 
species  from  a  poisonous  species.  One  must  learn  to  know  each 
kind  by  its  appearance,  and  the  edibility  of  each  kind  by  experi- 
ment. 

Some  edible  mushrooms  change  colour  when  bruised,  some 
edible  ones  do  not. 

Some  poisonous  mushrooms  change  colour  when  bruised, 
and  some  poisonous  ones  do  not. 

Some  mushrooms  with  bright  colours,  or  viscid  caps,  or 
pleasant  taste,  or  agreeable  odour  are  edible,  and  some  are 
poisonous. 

Some  edible  mushrooms  will  turn  a  silver  spoon  black,  and 
so  will  some  poisonous  ones. 

Cautions  for  the   Inexperienced 

Never  use  specimens  which  are  decomposed  in  the  slightest 
degree. 

Never  use  those  which  are  at  all  burrowed  by  insects. 

Never  collect,  for  food,  mushrooms  in  the  button  stage,  as 
it  is  difficult  for  a  novice  to  distinguish  the  buttons  of  poisonous 
species  from  the  buttons  of  harmless  species. 

Never  use  fungi  with  swollen  bases  surrounded  by  sac-like 
or  scaly  envelopes. 


Fungi  for  the  Table 

Never  use  fungi  with  milky  juice  unless  the  juice  is  red- 
dish. 

Never  use  fungi  with  caps  thin  in  proportion  to  the  width 
of  the  gills  when  the  gills  are  nearly  all  of  equal  length,  especially 
if  the  caps  are  bright  coloured. 

Never  use  for  food  tube-bearing  fungi  in  which  the  flesh 
changes  colour  when  cut  or  broken,  nor  those  with  the  tubes 
reddish.  Be  very  cautious  with  all  fleshy  tube-bearing  fungi. 

Never  use  for  food  fungi  with  a  web-like  ring  around  the 
upper  part  of  the  stem. 

The  novice  may  safely  experiment  with  Clavarias,  coral 
fungi,  morels,  and  puffballs. 

THE  FOOD  VALUE  OF  FUNGI. — Many  people  thoughtful  for  the 
welfare  of  those  with  limited  opportunities  for  varying  their  bill 
of  fare  have  hoped  to  solve  the  problem  by  introducing  into 
more  general  use  the  varied  and  abundant  fungi  which  grow 
everywhere  throughout  our  country.  In  order  to  accomplish 
this  object,  bulletins  have  been  published  by  the  several  agricul- 
tural departments,  and  have  been  distributed  freely  to  those 
wishing  to  have  them.  The  result  has  been  that  a  wide-spread 
interest  has  been  created  in  this  branch  of  botany,  and  fungi 
have  become  a  common  dish  on  tables  where  they  were  never 
before  seen. 

As  accessories,  for  relish  or  variety,  edible  fungi  are  undoubt- 
edly valuable  ;  but  that  they  can  never  take  the  place  of  meat,  as 
many  fondly  hoped,  nor  rank  very  high  as  an  essential  food,  has 
been  shown  by  the  experiments  of  Mr.  L.  B.  Mendel  in  the 
Sheffield  Laboratory  of  Physiological  Chemistry,  Yale  University. 
Mr.  Mendel  has  demonstrated  by  chemical  analysis  and  by  ex- 
periments in  artificial  digestion  that  the  proportion  of  proteid 
matter — the  material  which  meat  supplies — is  smaller  than  it  was 
formerly  supposed  to  be,  and  also  that  a  large  proportion  of  that 
present  is  not  acted  upon  by  the  digestive  juices.  Since,  also, 
the  proportion  of  water  to  solid  matter  is  very  great,  being  from 
seventy  to  ninety  per  cent,  in  the  most  desirable  edible  species, 
it  would  be  necessary  that  a  man  should  eat  a  great  many 
pounds  of  even  the  richest  fungi  in  order  to  obtain  the  daily 
requisite  of  proteid  matter  necessary  to  maintain  a  healthy 
constitution. 

The  specimens  marked  edible  in  this  book  have  been  repeat- 

152 


Fungi  for  the  Table 

edly  tried  by  many  people,  and  without  ill  effects.  Some  marked 
edible  are  harmless,  but  poor,  while  others  are  extremely  de- 
licious and  appetizing. 

A  few  directions  for  preparing  different  species  for  cooking 
are  given  below,  that  those  who  wish  to  experiment  may  have 
the  benefit  of  the  experience  of  others.  Receipts  for  cooking  the 
common  mushroom,  Agaricus  campestris,  may  be  found  in  all 
complete  cook-books,  and  these  receipts  as  they  are  given  or 
modified  may  be  used  for  other  kinds  also,  provided  that  the 
directions  for  the  preparation  of  the  different  species  are  fol- 
lowed. 

To  KEEP  MUSHROOMS  TEMPORARILY. — Cleanse,  remove  the 
parts  to  be  rejected,  rinse  in  cold  water  the  parts  to  be  used,  dry 
with  a  cloth,  then  put  in  boiling  water  and  keep  boiling  for  five 
or  ten  minutes.  Drain,  and  wipe  dry. 

To  PREPARE  THE  EDIBLE  AGARICS  FOR  COOKING. — Cleanse, 
cut  off  the  stems  and  throw  them  away.  Rinse  the  caps  in 
cold  water,  drain,  and  leave  in  cold  water  acidulated  with  lemon 
or  vinegar  until  just  before  using. 

To  TOAST  AGARICS. — Dry  with  a  cloth,  dust  with  flour,  put 
a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  on  the  gills.  Lay  the  caps,  gills 
upward,  on  a  wire-net  toaster,  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  cook 
from  five  to  ten  minutes. 

To  BAKE  AGARICS. — Dry  with  a  cloth.  Line  a  porcelain  pie- 
dish  with  toast,  spread  the  peeled  caps  on  the  toast,  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  them  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
thick  cream.  Cover  with  a  plate,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  hot.  Or, 

Line  the  dish  with  toast  dipped  in  hot  water  and  buttered. 
Spread  the  caps  on  the  toast,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  on 
each  one.  Cover,  and  cook  in  a  warm  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

To  BROIL  AGARICS — Broil  lightly  on  both  sides  over  a  bright 
fire.  Arrange  on  buttered  toast,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Put  bits  of  butter  or  bits  of  toasted  bacon  on  each,  and  set  in  the 
oven  a  moment.  Serve  hot. 

MUSHROOMS  STEWED — Caps,  peeled,  one  quart;  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls ;  salt,  one  teaspoonful;  pepper,  one-third  of  a 
teaspoonful;  water  or  stock,  one-half  cupful.  Boil  gently  in 
a  covered  stewpan  for  five  minutes.  Or, 

Caps,  peeled  and  cut  in  pieces,  one  pint;  butter,  one  table- 


Fungi  for  the  Table 

spoonful;  salt,  one-half teaspoonful;  pepper,  one  pinch.  Simmer 
in  a  stewpan  for  ten  minutes. 

To  PREPARE  RUSSULAS — Reject  the  stems  and  gills,  but  not 
the  peel.  Cleanse  the  caps,  rinse  in  cold  water,  then  put  for  a 
moment  in  boiling  water,  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Cook  by  the 
receipts  given  for  agarics. 

To  PREPARE  FUNGI  WITH  MILKY  JUICE — Remove  the  stems, 
cleanse,  rinse,  and  scald.  Steep  for  six  hours  in  a  liquid  pre- 
pared by  mixing  one  wineglass  of  strong  vinegar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  pint  of  water.  Boil  for  ten  minutes  in 
salt  and  water.  Cook  by  the  receipts  given  for  agarics. 

LACTARIUS  DELICIOSUS — Known  by  its  greyish-orange  cap 
marked  with  brighter  zones,  and  by  its  orange  milk.  Also 

LACTARIUS  VOLEMUS — Known  by  its  reddish-brown  cap,  two 
to  five  inches  across,  with  stems  of  the  same  colour,  and  white 
milk.  May  be  prepared  by  simply  removing  the  bases  of  the 
stems  and  then  rinsing  in  water. 

To  PREPARE  AMANITAS — Reject  the  stems  and  peel,  and  cook 
but  a  short  time. 

To  PREPARE  CHANTERELLES — Cut  off  the  base  of  the  stems, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  soak  in  warm  milk  for  six  hours.  Stew  a 
long  time  with  plenty  of  butter  or  stock.  Use  with  meat  hashes 
and  stews,  or  in  omelet. 

To  FRY  CHANTERELLES— Wash,  slice,  put  in  melted  butter, 
and  stir  for  ten  minutes,  simply  keeping  them  warm.  Add  more 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  crumbs  of  bread,  and  minced  parsley,  and 
fry  over  a  hot  fire. 

To  PREPARE  COPRINI — INK  CAPS — Use  only  young  specimens. 
Remove  the  base  of  the  stems,  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth.  Throw 
for  an  instant  into  boiling  water.  Fry  in  boiling  butter  or  lard. 
Remove  from  the  pan  as  soon  as  they  break  or  sink.  Serve  on 
toast. 

To  PREPARE  BOLETI— Remove  the  tubes  with  a  spoon. 
Reject  the  stems. 

To  PREPARE  HYDNUM  REPANDUM — Remove  the  bases  of  the 
stems,  and  scrape  off  the  spines.  They  require  little  cooking. 

To  PREPARE  MORELS — Cleanse;  rinse  by  shaking  them  in 
several  waters,  or  run  the  cold  water  from  the  faucet  over  them 
until  the  pits  are  thoroughly  cleansed.  They  require  to  be 
cooked  for  a  long  time. 


Fungi  for  the  Table 

To  PREPARE  BEEFSTEAK  FUNGUS — Gather  when  of  a  light- 
red  colour.  Remove  the  hard  base,  cleanse  in  cold  water. 

For  salad — Cut  in  thin  slices  and  serve  with  dressed  lettuce. 

Minced — Mince  fine,  put  in  a  stewpan  with  butter,  three 
ounces  to  the  pound.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley, 
and  onion  juice.  Stew  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  Bind  with 
egg-yolk  beaten  in  cream,  and  serve  with  toast.  This  mince 
may  be  used  with  veal  or  chicken  hash. 

To  PREPARE  GYROMITRAS. — Cleanse,  cut  in  slices,  boil  in  water 
fifteen  minutes,  then  wash  by  shaking  in  two  successive  waters 
boiling  hot.  Dry  on  cloths,  and  cook  as  directed  for  morels. 

To  PREPARE  WOODY  PORE-BEARING  FUNGI — POLYPOR^E. — Take 
the  soft  parts  of  young  specimens.  Put  in  boiling  water  for  a 
few  moments,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  dry  on  cloths.  Spread 
with  butter,  lay  in  a  stewpan,  and  cover;  then  keep  them  for  ten 
minutes  just  warm  enough  to  melt  the  butter.  Strain,  broil  for 
fifteen  minutes,  or  stew  half  an  hour  or  more  with  gravy. 

To  PREPARE  CLAVARIAS  AND  BRANCHED  HYDNUMS. — Cleanse, 
throw  into  scalding  water  for  a  moment,  and  then  put  into  cold 
water  made  acid  with  lemon  or  vinegar  until  they  are  to  be 
cooked.  Divide  the  large  ones,  and  tie  the  small  ones  into 
bundles.  Place  in  a  stewpan  with  bits  of  butter  laid  on  them. 
Cover  the  pan,  and  expose  to  heat  enough  to  melt  the  butter. 
Leave  for  ten  minutes,  and  drain. 

To  COOK  CLAVARIAS. — Put  into  a  hot  stewpan  with  bits  of 
butter;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice.  Cover  closely, 
and  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Thicken  with  cream  and  flour,  season 
to  taste,  and  cook  until  tender. 

Clavarias  may  also  be  cooked  as  directed  for  agarics. 

To  PREPARE  PUFFBALLS. — Cleanse,  peel,  trim  off  the  base. 
Cut  in  two  pieces,  and  reject  all  those  which  are  not  pure  white 
within. 

To  COOK  PUFFBALLS. — Fry  in  lard  five  or  six  minutes,  with 
bacon,  parsley,  onion  juice,  salt,  and  pepper;  or  cook  as  directed 
for  agarics. 

To  COOK  THE  GIANT  PUFFBALL. — Cut  in  slices  half  an  inch 
thick,  dip  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  pepper,  and  salt.  Fry  in 
boiling  fat  for  five  or  six  minutes. 

PUFFBALL  SALAD. — Cut  in  strips,  and  serve  with  green  salad 
dressed  with  mustard,  oil,  and  vinegar. 


SOME  OTHER  USEFUL  BOOKS 
ON  MUSHROOMS* 

ATKINSON,  G.  F.  "Studies  of  American  Fungi."  1911.  Holt  &  Co., 
N.  Y. 

BANKER,  H.  J.  "Revision  of  the  Hydnaceae,"  Memoir  Torrey  Club, 
Vol.  12,  1906. 

BURLINGTON,  GERTRUDE.  Monographs  of  Lactaria  and  Russula, 
North  American  Flora,  Vol.  9,  part  3,  1910;  part  4,  1915. 

BURT,  E.  A.  Papers  on  the  Thelephoraceae.  Annals  Mo.  Botanical'Garden, 
St.  Louis,  1914. 

COKER,  W.  C.  Papers  on  North  Carolina  Fungi,  Journal  Elisha  Mitchell 
Society,  Chapel  Hill,  N.  C. 

GIBSON,  W.  H.  "Our  Edible  Toadstools  and  Mushrooms,"  1903.  Har- 
per &  Brothers,  N.  Y. 

HARD,  M.  E.    "Mushrooms,  Edible  and  Otherwise."  1908. 

HARPER,  E.  T.  Papers  on  Gill-fungi,  Transactions  Wise.  Academy  of 
Sciences,  1912-. 

KAUFFMAN,  C.  H.  "The  Agaricaceae  of  Michigan."  Publication  26, 
Mich.  Biological  Survey,  Vols.  i  and  2,  1918. 

LLOYD,  C.  G.    "Mycological  Notes."    1898-.    Cincinnati,  O. 

McILVANE,  C.  "One  Thousand  American  Fungi."  1912.  The  Bowen- 
Merrill  Co.,  Indianapolis. 

MOFFATT,  W.  S.  "Higher  Fungi  of  the  Chicago  Region."  Natural  His- 
tory Survey  of  Chicago  Academy  of  Sciences,  Bulletin  VII,  1909. 

MURRILL,  W.  A.  Monographs  in  North  American  Flora,  published  by  the 
New  York  Botanical  Garden,  at  $2.00  per  part:  Polyporaceae,  Vol.  9,  parts  i  and  2; 
Boletaceae,  Vol.  9,  part  3;  Agaricaceae,  Vol.  9,  parts  3  to  6,  and  Vol.  10,  parts  i  to  3. 
Books  published  by  W.  A.  Murrill,  Bronxwood  Park,  N.  Y.  City:  "Edible  and 

•Compiled  by  Dr.  W.  A.  Murrill,  of  the  New  York  Botanical  Garden,  for  the  Yama  Farms  Myco- 
logical Club. 

157 


Some  Other  Useful  Books  on  Mushrooms 

Poisonous  Mushrooms,"  $2.00;  "American  Boletes,"  $1.00;  "Northern  Polypores," 
$1.00;  "Southern  Polypores,"  $1.00;  "Western  Polypores,"  $1.00;  "Tropical  Poly- 
pores,"  $1.50;  "Murrill's  and  Saccardo's  Names  of  Polypores  Compared,"  $.35 

MYCOLOGIA.  Volumes  i  to  1 1 .  1909-.  New  York  Botanical  Garden, 
$4.00  a  volume.  A  bi-monthly  containing  a  series  of  colored  plates,  technical  arti- 
cles, notes,  and  an  index  to  current  mycological  literature. 

NEUMAN,  J.  J.  "  Polyporaceae  of  Wisconsin,"  Wise.  Survey,  Bulletin  33, 
1914. 

OVERHOLTS,  L.  O.  Papers  on  the  Polyporaceae,  Annals  Mo.  Botanical 
Garden,  1914,  and  Washington  University  Studies,  Vol.  3,  1915,  St.  Louis. 

PATTERSON,  FLORA  W.  and  CHARLES,  VERA  K.  "Mushrooms 
and  Other  Common  Fungi,"  Bulletin  175,  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture, 
1915,  Washington,  D.  C. 

PECK,  C.  H.  Annual  Reports  of  the  State  Botanist,  1872-1912,  Albany, 
N.  Y. 

RIDGWAY,  R.  "Color  Standards  and  Color  Nomenclature,"  1912,  Wash- 
ington, D.  C. 

SACCARDO,  P.  A.  "Sylloge  Fungorum,"  1882-.  Twenty-two  volumes 
in  Latin,  containing  descriptions  of  all  known  fungi. 

SEAVER,  F.  J.     "  Iowa  Discomycetes,"  New  York  Botanical  Garden. 

UNDERWOOD,  L.  M.  "Moulds,  Mildews  and  Mushrooms,"  1899,  Holt 
&  Co.,  N.  Y. 

WHITE,  E.  A.  "Hymeniales  of  Connecticut,"  Conn.  Natural  History  Sur- 
vey, Bulletin  3,  1905;  Bulletin  15,  1910,  New  Haven,  Conn. 


158 


LIST  OF  POISONOUS  OR  SUSPECTED 

MUSHROOMS 

(From  Bulletin  175  [1915],  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture) 


Amanita  chlorinosma 
Amanita  cothurnata 
Amanita  junquillea 
Amanita  muscaria 
Amanita  pantherina 
Amanita  phalloides 
Amanita  porphyria 
Amanita  radicata 
Amanita  solitaria 
Amanita  spreta 
Amanita  strobiliformis 
Amanita  virosa 
Amanitopsis  volvata 
Boletus  erythropus 
Boletus  felleus 
Boletus  luridus 
Boletus  miniato-olivaceus 

ear.  sensibilis 
Boletus  satanus 
Calvatia  cyathiformis 
Cantharellus  aurantiacus 
Clathrus  columnatus 
Clavaria  aurea 
Clitocybe  geotropa 
Clitocybe  illudens 
Cortinarius  purpurescens 
Elaphomyces  granulatus 
Entoloma  grande 
Entoloma  lividum 
Entoloma  sinuatum 
Entoloma  speculum 
Geaster  hygrometricus 
*Gyromitra  esculenta 
Hebeloma  crustuliniforme 
Hebeloma  fastibile 
Helvella  esculenta 


Hygrophorus  conicus 
Hypoloma  fasciculare 
Inocybe  infelix 
Inocybe  infida 
I  thy  phallus  impudicus 
Lactarius  fuliginosus 
Lactarius  piperatus 
Lactarius  pyrogalus 
Lactarius  rufus 
Lactarius  theiogalus 
Lactarius  torminosus 
Lactarius  villereus 
Lactarius  zonarius 
Lepiota  dolichaula 
Lepiota  morgani 
Marasmius  peronatus 
Marasmius  urens 
Mitrula  paludosa 
Panseolus  campanulatus 
Panus  papilionaceus 
Panus  stypticus 
Pholiota  automnalis 
Pleurotus  olearius 
Psilocybe  foenisecii 
Russula  emetica 
Russula  foetens 
Russula  fragilis 
*  Russula  nigricans 
Russula  nitida 
Russula  queletii 
Scleroderma  bovista 
Stropharia  aeruginosa 
Stropharia  semiglobata 
Tricholoma  sulphureum 
Tricholoma  tigrinum 
Tricholoma  venenatum 
Volvaria  gloiocephala 


•Also  on  Peck's  "List  of  Edible  Mushrooms." 


159 


LIST  OF  EDIBLE  MUSHROOMS 
BY  DR.  CHARLES  H.  PECK 

(Formerly  State  Botanist  of  New  York) 


Agaricus  abruptus  Pk. 

Agaricus  arvensis  Schaeff. 

Agaricus  campester  L. 

Agaricus  diminutivus  Pk. 

Agaricus  hsmorrhoidarius  Schulz. 

Agaricus  micromegethus  Pk. 

Agaricus  Placomyces  Pk. 

Agaricus  rodmani  Pk. 

Agaricus  silvicola  Pk. 

Agaricus  subrufescens  Pk. 

Amanita  caesarea  Scop. 

Amanita  rubescens  Fr. 

Amanitopsis  strangulata  (Fr.)  Roze 

Amanitopsis  vaginata  Roze 

Armillaria  mellea  Vahl 

Boletinus  grisellus  Pk. 

Boletinus  pictus  Pk. 

Boletus  affinis  Pk. 

Boletus  albidipes  Pk. 

Boletus  albus  Pk. 

Boletus  bicolor  Pk. 

Boletus  brevipes  Pk. 

Boletus  castaneus  Bull. 

Boletus  chrysenteron  albocarneus  Pk. 

Boletus  clintonianus  Pk. 

Boletus  edulis  Bull. 

Boletus  edulis  clavipes  Pk. 

Boletus  eximius  Pk. 

Boletus  frostii  Russell 

Boletus  granulatus  L. 

Boletus  laricinus  Berk. 

Boletus  luteus  L. 

Boletus  niveus  Fr. 

Boletus  nobilis  Pk. 

Boletus  ornatipes  Pk. 

Boletus  pallidus  Frost 

Boletus  rubropunctus  Pk. 

Boletus  rugosiceps  Pk. 


Boletus  scaber  Fr. 

Boletus  spectabilis  Pk. 

Boletus  subaureus  Pk. 

Boletus  subglabripes  Pk. 

Boletus  subluteus  Pk. 

Boletus  versipellis  Fr. 

Bovista  pila  V.  &  C. 

Bovista  plumbea  Pers. 
Cantharellus  cibarius  Fr. 
Cantharellus  cinnabarinus  Schw. 
Cantharellus  dichotomus  Pk. 
Cantharellus  floccosus  Schw. 
Cantharellus  infundibuliformis  (Scop.) 

Fr. 

Cantharellus  lutescens  Fr. 
Cantharellus  minor  Pk. 
Clavaria  botrytes  Pers. 
Clavaria  botrytoides  Pk. 
Clavaria  conjuncta  Pk. 
Clavaria  cristata  Pers. 
Clavaria  flava  Schaeff. 
Clavaria  pistillaris  L. 
Clitocybe  adirondackensis  Pk. 
Clitocybe  amethystina  (Bolt.)  Pk. 
Clitocybe  clavipes  (Pers.)  Fr. 
Clitocybe  infundibuliformis  Schaeff. 
Clitocybe  laccata  Scop. 
Clitocybe  maculosa  Pk. 
Clitocybe  media  Pk. 
Clitocybe  monadelpha  Morg. 
Clitocybe  multiformis  Pk. 
Clitocybe  nebularis  Batsch. 
Clitocybe  ochropurpurea  Berk. 
Clitocybe  subcyathiformis  Pk. 
Clitopilus  abort ivus  B.  &  C. 
Clitopilus  micropus  Pk. 
Clitopilus  orcella  Bull. 
Clitopilus  prunulus  Scop. 


161 


List  of  Edible  Mushrooms 


Collybia  acervata  Fr. 
Collybia  droyophila  (Bull.)  Fr. 
Collybia  familia  Pk. 
Collybia  platyphylla  Fr. 
Collybia  radicata  (Relh.)  Fr. 
Collybia  velutipes  (Curt.)  Fr. 
Coprinus  atramentarius  Fr. 
Coprinus  comatus  Fr. 
Coprinus  micacaus  Fr. 
Cortinarius  albidipes  Pk. 
Cortinarius  cinnamomeus  Fr., 
Cortinarius  collinitus  Fr. 
Cortinarius  corrugatus  Pk.      / 
Cortinarius  evernius  Fr. 
Cortinarius  violaceus  Fr. 
Craterellus  cantharellus  (Schw.)  Fr. 
Craterellus  cornucopioides  Pers. 
Crepidotus  malachius  B.  &  C. 
Entoloma  grayanum  Pk. 
Fistulina  hepatica  Fr. 
*Gyromitra  esculenta  Fr. 
Helvella  crispa  Fr. 
Hydnum  albidum  Pk. 
Hydnum  caput-ursi  Fr. 
Hydnum  coralloides  Scop. 
Hydnum  repandum  L. 
Hygrophorus  cantharellus  Schw. 
Hygrophorus  chlorophanus  Fr. 
Hygrophorus  flavodiscus  Frost. 
Hygrophorus  fuliginosus  Frost. 
Hygrophorus  laricinus  Pk. 
Hygrophorus  laurae  Morg. 
Hygrophorus  miniatus  Fr. 
Hygrophorus  nitidus  B.  &  C. 
Hygrophorus  pratensis  Fr. 
Hygrophorus  pudorinus  Fr. 
Hygrophorus  puniceus'Fr. 
Hygrophorus  speciosus  Pk. 
Hygrophorus  virgineus  (Wulf.)  Fr. 
Hypholoma  aggregatum  sericeum  Pk. 
Hypholoma  incertum  Pk. 
Hypholoma  perplexum  Pk. 
Hypomyces  lactifluorum  (Schw.)  Tul. 
Lactarius  camphoratus  (Bull.)  Fr. 
Lactarius  chelidonium  Pk. 
Lactarius  deceptivus  Pk. 
Lactarius  deliciosus  Fr. 

•Also  on  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture's ' 


Lactarius  distans  Pk. 

Lactarius  gerardii  Pk. 

Lactarius  lignyotus  Fr. 

Lactarius  luteolus  Pk. 

Lactarius  rimosellus  Pk. 

Lactarius  serifluus  (DC  )  Fr. 

Lactarius  subdulcis  (Bull.)  Fr. 

Lactarius  subpurpureus  Pk. 

Lactarius  volemus  Fr. 

Lepiota  americana  Pk. 

Lepiota  cepzstipes  Sow. 

Lepiota  clypeolaria  (Bull.)  Fr. 

Lepiota  naucinoides  Pk. 

Lepiota  procera  Scop. 

Lycoperdonjatropurpureum  Vitt. 

Lycoperdon  cyathiforme  Bosc. 

Lycoperdon  gemmatum  Batsch. 

Lycoperdon  giganteum  Batsch. 

Lycoperdon  subincarnatutn  Pk. 

Marasmius  oreades  Fr. 

Mitrula  vitellina  irregularis  Pk. 

Morchella  angusticeps  Pk. 

Morchella  bispora  Sor. 

Morchella  conica  Pers. 

Morchella  deliciosa  Fr. 

Morchella  esculenta  Pers. 

Morchella  semilibera  DC.- 

Paxillus  involutus  Fr. 

Pholiota  adiposa  Fr. 

Pholiota  caperata  Pers.. 

Pholiota  discolor  Pk. 

Pholiota  duroides  Pk. 

Pholiota  praecox  (Pers.)  Fr. 

Pholiota  squarrosa  Muell. 

Pholiota  squarrosoides  Pk. 

Pholiota  vermiflua  Pk. 

Phylloporus  rhodoxanthus  (Schw.)  Bres. 

Pleurotus  ostreatus  Fr. 

Pleurotus  sapidus  Kalchb. 

Pleurotus  ulmarius  Bull. 

Pluteus  cervinus  (Schaeff.)  Fr. 

Polyporus  sulphureus  Fr. 

Psilocybe  foenisecii  (Pers.)  Fr. 

Psilocybe  polycephala  (Paul.)  Pk, 

Russula  abietina  Pk. 

Russula  albida  Pk. 

Russula  brevipes  Pk. 

'List  of  Poisonous  or  Suspected  Mushrooms." 
162 


List  of  Edible  Mushrooms 


Russula  compacta  Frost. 
Russula  crustosa  Pk. 
Russula  earlei  Pk. 
Russula  flavida  Frost. 
Russula  furcata  (Pers.)  Fr. 
Russula  mariae  Pk. 
*Russula  nigricans  (Bull.)  Fr. 
Russula  ochrophylla  Pk. 
Russula  pectinatoides  Pk. 
Russula  pusilla  Pk. 
Russula  roseipes  (Seer.)  Bres. 
Russula  rugulosa  Pk. 
Russula  sordida  Pk. 
Russula  subsordida  Pk. 
Russula  uncialis  Pk. 
Russula  variata  Banning. 
Russula  virescens  Fr. 

Volvaria 


Russula  viridella  Pk. 
Strobilomyces  strobilaceus  (Scop.)  Brek. 
Stropharia  bilamellata  Pk. 
Tricholoma  hirtellum  Pk. 
Tricholoma  imbricatum  Fr. 
Tricholoma  nudum  (Bull.)  Fr. 
Tricholoma  personatum  Fr. 
Tricholoma  portentosum  centrale  Pk. 
Tricholoma  radicatum  Pk. 
Tricholoma  russula  (Schaeff.)  Fr. 
Tricholoma  sil vaticum  Pk. 
Tricholoma  sordidum  (Schum.)  Fr. 
Tricholoma  subacutum  Pk. 
Tricholoma  subsejunctum  Pk. 
Tricholoma  terreum  fragrans  Pk. 
Tricholoma  transmutans  Pk. 
Tricholoma  unifactum  Pk. 
bombycina  (Pers.)  Fr. 


NOTE 

It  is  customary,  when  writing  the  name  of  a  fungus  for 
scientific  purposes,  to  append  the  name  of  the  author  who  first 
published  the  appellation.  The  author's  name,  for  convenience, 
may  be  abbreviated.  A  list  of  such  abbreviations  as  are  used 
in  this  book  is  given  below. 

A.  &  S.      Albertini  and  Schweinitz. 

BATSCH.     Augustus  Batsch  (1761-1802),  German  botanist 
BERK.         Rev.  Miles  Joseph  Berkeley. 

B.  &  C.     Berkeley  and  Curtis. 

Bosc  Louis  Bosc  (1759-1828),  one  of  the  first  collectors 
of  fungi  in  the  United  States. 

BULL.          Pierre  Bulliard,  1742-1793. 

BURNAP.      Charles  E.  Burnap,  an  American  student. 

BUXB.         Johann  Christian  Buxbaum,  1693-1730. 

D.  C.  Augustin  Pyrame  de  Candolle  (1778-1841),  a  promi- 
nent Swiss  botanist. 

DESV.  Nicaise  Augustin  Desvaux,  French  botanist,  1784- 
1856. 

ELLIS.  J.  B.  Ellis.  Mr.  Ellis  is  a  mycologist  in  the  United 
States.  The  Ellis  collection  of  fungi  contains  the 
largest  number  of  types  of  any  collection  of  Ameri- 
can fungi  in  existence.  It  is  deposited  in  the 
museum  of  the  New  York  Botanical  Garden. 

FR.  Elias  Magnus  Fries  (1794-1878),  a  Swedish  botanist, 

who  laid  the  foundations  for  the  study  of  the 
Basidiomycetes. 

HOLMSK.     Theodor  Holmskiold  (1732-1794),  a  Danish  botanist. 

HUDS.         William  Hudson  (1730-1793),  an  English  botanist. 

LASCH.        Wilhelm  Lasch  (1786-1863),  a  German  botanist. 

LK.  Heinrich  Friedrich  Link  (1767-1851),  a  German 

botanist. 

L.  or  LINN.  Carl  von  Linnaeus  (1707-1778),  a  Swedish  botanist, 
who  revised  the  principles  of  classification  and 
introduced  what  is  known  as  the  binomial  no- 
menclature. According  to  his  method,  the  name 
of  a  plant  is  reduced  to  two  words  :  the  first,  or 
165 


Note 


MASS. 

MORG. 

PK. 
PERS. 

ROZE. 
SCHW. 


SCOP. 


SACC. 


VAHL. 


generic,  name  is  a  substantive  or  a  word  used  as  a 
substantive  ;  while  the  second,  or  specific,  name  is 
an  adjective.  Lactarius  is  the  generic  name  of 
those  fungi  dripping  milk,  and  deliciosus  (delicious) 
the  specific  name  for  one  edible  species. 

George  Massee,  an  English  botanist. 

A.  P.  Morgan,  an  American  botanist. 

Charles  H.  Peck  (1833-  )»  the  State  botanist  of 
New  York. 

Christian  Hendrik  Persoon  (1755-1837),  a  German 
botanist. 

Ernest  Roze,  a  French  botanist. 

Lewis  David  de  Schweinitz  (1780-1834),  an  Ameri- 
can botanist ;  one  of  the  first  to  make  mycology  a 
serious  study. 

Giovanni  Antonio  Scopoli  (1723-1788),  an  Italian 
botanist. 

Jacobi  Christiani  Schaeffer  (1718-1790),  a  German 
botanist. 

P.  A.  Saccardo  (1845-  ),  an  Italian  botanist.  Sac- 
cardo  is  the  compiler  of  Sylloge  Fungorum,  a  work 
in  Latin,  containing  descriptions  of  over  forty  thou- 
sand species.  It  is  a  most  valuable  work,  as  it  has 
made  accessible  to  workers  throughout  the  world 
the  greater  part  of  the  technical  descriptive  litera- 
ture upon  the  subject  of  fungi. 

Martin  Vahl  (1749-1804),  a  Norwegian  botanist. 


The  diacritical  marks  used  in  the  pronunciation  of  the  Latin 
names  indicate  the  sounds  of  the  same  letters  in  the  following 
list: 


*  as  in  fat 


fi  as  in  cut 


fate 

met 

meet 

fin 

fine 

not 

note 


cute 
rn^th 

my 

gem 
get 
cat 
cent 


166 


INDEX  AND  GLOSSARY 


Adnate,  35 ;  united  by 
growth  ;  said  of  gills 
when  they  are  grown 
to  the  stem. 

Agaricaceae,    30,    32,  40, 

46,  73- 

Agaricales,  14,  30. 
Agaricus,  39,  73. 

—  abruptus,  77. 

—  arvensis,  75. 

—  campestris,  12,  75,  76. 

—  cretaceus.  64. 

—  hemorrhoidarius,  75. 

—  how  to  grow,  73. 

—  maritimus,  75. 

—  placomyces,  75. 

—  Rodmani,  75,  76. 

—  subrufescens,  75. 

—  sylvaticus,  75. 
Algae,  9. 

Algal-like  fungi,  9,  17. 
Amanita,  34,  46. 

—  Csesarea,  50,  52. 

—  Frostiana,  52. 

—  muscaria,  52. 

—  phalloides,  48. 

—  to  prepare,  for  cooking, 

154. 

—  verna,  65. 

—  young  plant,  47. 
Amanitopsis,  34,  53,  88. 

—  parcivolvata,  55. 

—  vaginata,  54. 

var.  alva,  54. 

var.  fulva,  54. 

var.  livida,  54. 

Anthurus,  26. 

Antidote,    48;    anything 

that  wilt  counteract 
the  effects  of  poi- 
son. 

XX 


Arachnoid,  38 ;  web-like. 
Armillaria,  34. 

—  mellea,  6l. 

var.  bulbosa,  62. 

—  —  var.  exannulata,  62. 

var.  flava,  62. 

var.  glabra,  62. 

var.  obscura,  62. 

var.  radicata,  62. 

Asci,  18,  19 ;  the  sacs  in 

which  the  spores  of 
the  cup  fungi  are  de- 
veloped. 

Ascoma,  19,  20,  21  ;  the 
disk-like  body  bear- 
ing the  spore-sacs 
of  the  cup  fungi  and 
their  allies. 

Ascomata,  20,  21  ;  plural 
of  ascoma. 

Ascomycetes,  17,  18,  135. 

Ascus,  17;  singular  of  asci. 

Astraeus  hygrometricus, 
130. 

Basidia,  16,  17  ;  enlarged 

cells  bearing  spores. 
Basidiomycetes,     14,    17, 

97,  "6. 
Bean  seed  to  show  embryo, 

7- 

Bear's  head,  2,  96. 
Beefsteak  fungus,  103. 

—  for  salad,  155. 

—  minced,  155. 

—  to  prepare,  155. 
Bird's-nest,  24,  133. 
Bitter  Boletus,  107. 
Black  knot,  9. 
Boletaceae,  31,  44,  102. 
Boleti,  14. 

167 


Boleti,    care     of   spores, 
148. 

—  to  prepare,  154. 

—  of  the   United  States, 

104. 

—  which   change   colour, 

104. 
Boletinus,  45,  102,  103. 

—  pictus,  103. 

—  painted,  103. 
Boletus,  44,  104. 

—  Americanus,  109, 

—  bicolor,  105. 

—  calopus,  106. 

—  castaneus,  108. 

—  chrysenteron,  106. 

—  cyanescens,  105. 

—  edulis,  109. 

—  eximius,  108. 

—  felleus,  107. 

—  glabellus,  104. 

—  mutabilis,  105. 

—  pallidus,  105. 

—  Peckii,  106. 

—  purpureus,  107. 

—  radicans,  106. 

—  Satanus,  107. 

—  sea  be  r,  108. 

—  speciosus,  105. 

—  subtomentosus,  109. 

—  versipellis,  108. 
Boston  Mycological  Club, 

145. 
Bovista,  128. 

—  plumbea,  128. 

—  section  of,  128. 
Bovistella,  29,  124,  129. 

—  Ohiensis,  129. 
Brackets,  2,  4. 
Brain-shaped  Calvatia,  126. 
Branches,  7. 


Index  and  Glossary 


Brick  top.     (PI.  opposite 

p.  81.) 

Brick-red  mushroom,  80. 
Button,  ii,  12  ;  the  name 

given     to    a    young 

mushroom. 

Caesarea,  50. 

Caesar's  mushroom,  51. 

Ceespitose,  145;  growing  in 

clumps,  many  plants 

from  one  root. 
Calostoma,  29,  123,    124, 

131- 

—  cinnabarinuwi,  132. 

—  lutescens,  132. 

—  Ravenelii,  132. 
Calvatia,  28,  124,  126. 

—  craniformis,  126. 

—  cyathiformis,  128. 

—  fragile  coat,  126. 

—  maxima,  127. 

—  section  of,  126. 

Cambium,  137  ;  the  deli- 
cate young  cells  be- 
tween the  wood  and 
bark.  The  inner  be- 
come new  wood ;  the 
outer,  new  bark. 

Campestris,  76. 
Caninus,  120. 
Cantharellus,  36,  53. 

—  cibarius,  148. 

—  floccosus,  53. 
Cap,  defined,  12. 

—  membranous,  35. 

—  ragged  edge,  13. 

—  scaly,  34. 

—  smooth,  34. 

—  striate,  50. 

—  umbonate,  63. 

Capillitium,  25,  126 ;  sim- 
ple or  branched 
threads  mixed  with 
spores. 

—  elastic,  126. 
Capitate,  21;  having  a  dis- 
tinct head. 


Capitila.  (PI.  opposite  p. 
136.) 

Caput-ursi,  96. 

Carbon,  4  ;  an  elementary 
substance  found  in 
plant  and  animal 
tissue. 

Cartilaginous,  36,  146 ; 
similar  to  the  elastic 
tissue  found  at  the 
ends  of  fresh  bones. 

Caterpillar,  fungus  grow- 
ing on,  136. 

Cautions,  151. 

Cell,  I  r  ;  a  living  vegeta- 
ble unit. 

—  spore,  ii. 

—  club-like,  13,  14. 
Cervinus,  87. 
Chalk  agaric,  64. 
Chanterelle    hygrophorus, 

59- 

—  to  fry,  154. 

—  to  prepare,  154. 
Chemical  analysis,  152. 
Chestnut  Boletus,  108. 
Chitonia,  83. 
Chlorophyll,   6,    144 ;  the 

green  coloring  mat- 
ter of  plants. 

Christmas  greens,  5,  7. 

Chrysenteron,  106. 

Cibus  Deorum,  51. 

Cinnabarinum,  132. 

Circinatus,  113. 

Class,  7,  15,  17. 

Classification,  5,  7. 

Clathraceae,  26,  117,  121. 

Clathrus,  26,  121. 

—  cancellatus,  121. 

—  columnatus,  121. 
Clavaria,  3,  14,  99. 

—  aurea,  100. 

—  botrytes,  100. 

—  cristata,  100. 

—  fellea,  101. 

—  flava,  99. 

—  formosa,  101. 

168 


Clavaria,  golden,  100. 

—  pale  yellow,  99. 

—  pistil,  101. 

—  pistillaris,  101. 

—  red-tipped,  100. 

—  to  cook,  155. 

—  to  prepare,  155. 
Clavariacese,  30,  98,  99. 
Clavate,  21  ;  club-shaped, 
Clitocybe,  35,  68,  70. 

—  laccata,  70. 

—  care  of  spores,  148. 
Clitocybe  virens,  71. 

—  var.  amythystina,  71. 

—  var.  pallidifolia,  71. 

—  var.  striatula,  71. 
Clitopilus,  37,  88. 
Collector,  notes  of,  145. 

—  outfit  of,  147. 
Collybia,  35,  66. 

—  care  of  specimens,  150. 

—  care  of  spores,  148. 

—  familia,  67. 

—  radicata,  66. 

—  radicata,  care  of  spores, 

148. 

—  velutipes,  66. 
Columella,  125. 
Common  mushroom,  76. 
Context,   42 ;    the   tissue 

immediately  in  con- 
tact with  *  specified 
part. 

Coprinarii.     See  Coprini. 

Coprini  .careof  spores,  148 , 

—  to  prepare,  154. 
Coprinus,  40,  89. 

—  atramentarius,  91. ' 

—  comatus,  iii,  v,  viii,  90 

—  micaceus,  91. 
Coral  fungi,  98. 
Coral  Hydnum,  97. 
Cordyceps,  136. 
Corollas,  6. 
Cortinarii,  care  of  spores^ 

148. 
Cortinarius,  38,  85. 

—  alboviolaceus,  87. 


Index  and  Glossary 


Cortinarius  violaceus,  87. 
Count  de  Vecchi,  49. 
C  rani  for  mis,  126. 
Craterellus      cantharellus, 

73- 

Crested  Clavaria,  100. 
Crucibulum,  133. 
Cup  fungi,  19,  137. 
Cup-shaped  puffball,  128. 
Cyathiformis,  128. 
Cyathus,  133. 
Czar  Alexis,  49. 

Daedalea,  43. 

Death  Cup,  48. 

Deconica,  39,  82. 

Decurrent,  35  ;  growing 
down  the  stem  ;  said 
of  gills. 

Deliquescent,  26  ;  dissolv- 
ing or  melting  away. 

Destroying  Angels,  2.  See 
Death  Cup. 

Dictyophorus,  27. 

Dissemination,  of  seeds, 
6  ;  the  act  of  scat- 
tering. 

—  of  spores,  4,  118,  126, 

131,  133,  137- 

Early  Pholiota,  84. 
Earth-stars,  123,  129. 
Earth-tongues,  138. 
Eccilia,  87,  88. 
Edible  Boletus,  109. 
Elaphomyces,  136. 
Elias  Fries,  97. 
Elm  Pleurotus,  58. 
Emetic  Russula,  68. 
Entoloma,  37,  88. 

Fairy  clubs,  9. 
Fairy-ring  mushroom,  66. 
Fairy  rings,  3. 
Families,  7,  16. 
Fat  Pholiota,  83. 
Favolus,  115. 

—  alveolarius,  115. 


Fawn-coloured  Pluteus,  87. 
Fern  with  spore  capsules,  8. 
Fertile  gleba,  125. 
Fibrillose,  146  ;  furnished 

with  fibres. 
Fistulina,  44,  102. 

—  cavipes,  103. 

—  decipiens,  103. 

—  hepatica,  102. 

—  paluster,  103. 

—  porosus,  103. 
Fistulose,      146  ;    hollow 

through  the  whole 
length. 

Flexuous,  146  ;  bent  alter- 
nately in  opposite 
directions. 

Flint-stone,  127  ;  a  stone 
formerly  used  for  ob- 
taining sparks. 

Floccose,  45 ;  clothed 
with  locks  of  soft 
hair  or  wool. 

Flocculent,  52 ;  woolly. 

Flowerless  plants,  5. 

Fly  Amanita,  49. 

Food  of  the  gods,  51. 

Frog-spittle,  6. 

Fruiting  portion,  12,  13. 

Ftihrer  fur  Pilzfreunde, 
104. 

Fungi,  defined,  4. 

—  for  food,  i,  151. 

—  for  the  herbarium,  145. 

—  for  the  table,  151. 

—  not  grewsome,  2. 

—  habitat,  2. 

—  how  to  grow  them,  73. 

—  number  of,  15. 

—  poisonous,  i,  48,  151. 

—  typical  parts,  12. 

—  with    gills,   30,    32-40, 

46-92. 

—  with  milky  juice,  92,  93. 

—  with  pores,  42,  44,  102, 

155- 

—  with     spines,    23,   41, 

94-97- 

169 


Fungi    with    teeth,    94- 

97- 

Fungus  plant,  9. 
Fusiform,  40 ;  cylindrical, 

tapering  gradually  to 

each  end. 

Gasteromycetes,  a,  3,  14, 

24. 
Geaster,  28,  124,  129. 

—  hygrometricus,  130. 

—  minimus,  130. 
Gelatinous  fungi,  116. 
Genera,  7,  16. 
Geoglossaceae,  21, 138. 
Geoglossum,  139. 

—  glabrum,  139. 

—  hirsutum,  139. 
Giant  puffball,  127. 
Gills,  12. 

—  forked,  53. 

—  notched,  58. 

—  structure,  13. 

—  toothed,  56. 

—  waxy,  61. 
Glabrous,  50;  not  hairy. 
Gleba,  26,  117 ;  the  spore 

mass  of  the  pouch 
fungi. 

Glistening  Coprinus,  91. 

Globose,  40 ;  having  or 
approaching  a  spher- 
ical form. 

Golden  Clavaria,  100. 

Golden-flesh  Boletus,  106. 

Golden  Peziza,  138. 

Gomphidius,  4,  92. 

—  fixing  spores  of,  148. 
Grandinia,  94. 

Grass  spikelet,  7. 
Gray-gilled  mushroom,  79. 
Green  Russula,  69. 
Greeks,  I. 
Guepinia,  116. 
Gyromitra,        20,       140, 
141. 

—  esculenta,  141. 

—  to  prepare,  155. 


Index  and  Glossary 


Habitat,  145;  the  locality 
where  a  plant  natu- 
rally lives. 

Haschisch,  49 ;  an  intoxi- 
cating preparation  of 
the  Indian  hemp. 

Hedgehog  Hydnum,  97. 

—  mushroom,  94. 
Helvetia,  20,  140. 

—  elastica,  142. 

—  lacunosa,  143. 

—  —  diagrammatic  draw- 

ing, 143- 

section  of  stem,  143. 

Helvellaceae,  20,  140. 

Helvellales,  19,  138. 

Hirneola  auricula- Judae, 
116. 

Honey-coloured  Armilla- 
ria,  61. 

Host,  22 ;  the  plant  or 
animal  which  sup- 
ports a  parasite. 

Hydnaceae,  32,  04. 

Hydnum,  14,  32,  41,  94, 
116. 

—  albidum,  95. 

—  branched,   to   prepare, 

155- 

—  caput-medusae,  97. 

—  caput-ursi,  96. 

—  coralloides,  97. 

—  echinaceus,  97. 

—  imbricatum,  96. 

—  repandum,  95. 

—  rufescens,  95. 
Hydrogen  gas,  4  ;  one  of 

the  elements  found 
in  plant  and  animal 
tissue. 

Hygrophanous,  145; 
opaque  when  dry, 
and  transparent  when 
moist. 

Hygrophorus,  35,  59. 

—  cantharellus,  59. 

—  eburneus,  61. 

—  miniatus,  60. 


Hygrophorus,   var.   flava, 
60. 

—  var.  flaviceps,  60. 

—  var.  flavipes,  60. 

—  var.  rosea,  60. 
Hymenogastrales,  133. 
Hymenomycetes,  2,  14. 
Hypha,  II  ;  a  thread-like 

strand  of  the  vegeta- 
tive part  of  a  fungus. 
Hypholoma,  39,  78. 
appendiculatum,  80. 

—  capnoides,  79. 

—  elaeodes,  80. 

—  epixanthus,  79. 

—  fasciculare,  80. 

—  incertum,  80,  81. 

—  perplexum,  78,  79. 

—  sublateritium,  81. 
Hypocreales,  18.  136. 
Imperial  mushroom,  51. 
Incertum,  80,  81. 
Indian  pipe,  7. 
Ingenious  stamens,  6. 
Ink-caps,  89. 

Inky  Coprinus,  91. 

Irpex,  94. 

Ivory  Hygrophorus,  61. 

Jew's  Ear,  116. 
Judas's  Ear,  n6. 
Juice,  milky,  32. 

—  watery,  32. 
Juvenal,  I ;  a  Roman  poet, 

first  century  A.D. 

Kaiserling,  51. 
Key,  15-45- 

Lachnocladium,  99. 
Lactarius,  32,  92. 

—  care  of  spores,  148. 

—  channeled,  33. 

—  crisped,  33. 

—  deliciosus,  154. 

—  entire,  I. 

—  ligniotus,  93. 

—  piperatus,  92. 

170 


Lactarius,  to  cook,  154. 
to  prepare,  152. 

—  volemus,  154. 
Lamellae,  12. 

—  acute    35  ;    the    edges 

thin,  not  blunt. 

—  adnate,  35  ;    grown  to 

the  stem. 

—  brittle,  35. 

—  decurrent,  35  ;  growing 

down  the  stem. 

—  entire,  47. 

—  free  from  the  stem,  34. 
obtuse,  36. 

—  shallow  folds,  36. 

—  simple,  33. 

—  sinuate,  35. 

—  splitting  deeply,  33. 

—  toothed,  32. 

—  villous,  33  ;  with  soft 

hairs. 

—  waxy,  35. 
Larch  canker,  137. 
Large  club,  101. 
Latticed  Clathrus,  121. 
Leaf-green,  4,  6,  15,  144. 
Lentinus,  32. 

—  lepideus,  56. 
Lenzites,  43. 

—  betulina,  113. 

—  separia,  114. 
Lepiota,  34,  63. 

—  Friesii,  65. 

—  granulosa,    care    of 

spores,  149. 

—  naucinoides,  64. 

—  procera,  63. 

—  —  care  of  spores,  148. 
Leptonia,  88. 

Light  from  dry  rot,  2. 
Liverworts,  5,  7. 
Lycogala  epidendron,  144. 
Lycoperdales,  25,  28, 123. 
Lycoperdon,  29,  124. 

—  cyathiforme,  128. 

—  giganteum,  127. 

—  maxima,  127. 

—  pyriforme,  125. 


Index  and  Glossary 


Lycoperdon/  section    of, 
124. 

—  subincarnatum,  125. 

Lycopodiums,  7. 

Lysurus  borealis,  121. 

Majoon,  49  ;  an  intoxicat- 
ing confection  of 
India. 

Maned  agaric  (see  Coma- 

tus),  ii,  v,  viii,  go. 
Marasmius,  33,  65. 

—  care  of  spores,  149. 

—  oreades,  66. 
Marchantia  polymorpha.y. 
Masked  Tricholoma,  72. 
Medusa's  head,  97. 
Mendel,  152. 
Membrane  fungi,  14,  22. 
Merulius,  no. 

—  lacrymans,  no. 
Mitrula,  21. 

—  vitellina,  var.   irregula- 

ris,  140. 
Morels,  140,  154. 

—  to  prepare,  154. 
Morchella,   21,   140,    141, 

142. 

—  angusticeps,  142. 

—  bispora,  142. 

—  deliciosa,  142. 

—  esculenta,  141,  142. 

—  section  of,  141. 

—  semilibera,  142. 
Mould,  2. 

—  on  bread,  9. 

—  on  food,  2. 

—  on  dead  fly,  9. 
Mould-like  fungi,  15,  77. 
Mounting,  149. 
Mount  Marcy,  68. 
Mucronella,  94. 
Muscaria,  49. 
Muscarine,    50 ;   a  poison 

found  in  A.  muscaria. 
Mushrooms,  baked,  153. 

—  broiled,  153. 

—  stewed,  153. 

—  toasted,  153. 


Mushrooms,  to  keep,  15. 

—  to  prepare,  153. 
Mutinus,  27. 

—  bambusinus,  120. 

—  caninus,  120. 

—  embryo  plant,  120. 

—  young  plant,  120. 
Mycelial  threads,  117,  123. 

—  luminosity  of,  63. 
Mycelium,  n,  no,  136. 

—  food  provider,  13. 
Mycena,  35,  55. 

—  haematopoda,  55. 
Myxomycetes,  144. 

Name,  not  a  vital  thing, 
150. 

—  the  search  for,  150. 
Nidularia,  133. 
Nidulariales,  24,  133. 
Nolanea,  88. 

Odontium,  94. 
Offensive  fungi,  117. 
Omphalia,  35,  68. 

—  umbellifera,  68. 
Orange  Amanita,  50. 
Orange-cap  Boletus,  108. 
Orders,  7,  16. 
Oreades,  3. 

Oxygen,  4  ;  one  of  the  ele- 
mentary substances 
which,  chemically 
united  with  carbon 
and  hydrogen,  forms 
plant  tissues. 

Oyster  mushroom,  57. 

Painted  Boletinus,  103. 

Panseolus,  92. 

Panus,  33,  67. 

Paraphyses,  135  ;  jointed 
thread  -  like  bodies 
found  accompanying 
the  spore-sacs  of  cer- 
tain fungi. 

Parasite,  22  ;  that  which 
lives  by  taking  its 

171 


food  from  living 
plants  or  animals. 

Parasite,  Cordyceps,  on 
Elaphomyces,  136. 

Parasol  mushroom,  63. 

Paxillus,  care  of  spores, 
148. 

Peach  cure,  9. 

Pear-shaped  puffball,  125. 

Peridium,  14,  63,  24,  25, 
123  ;  the  thickened 
covering  to  a  puff- 
ball. 

Perithecium,  58  ;  a  round- 
ed, oval,  pear-shaped, 
or  beaked  body  in 
which  the  spore-sacs 
are  developed. 

Perplexing      Hypholoma, 

78,  79- 

Perplexum,  78. 
Peziza,  22,  137. 

—  aeruginosa,  137. 

—  aurantia,  138. 

—  odorata,  137. 

—  Willkommii,  137. 
Pezizales,  19,  20,  137. 
Phallacese,  27,  117. 
Phallales,  24,  117,  121. 
Phallin,     48  ;     a     deadly 

poison  found  in  cer- 
tain fungi. 

Phalloides,  Amanita,  48. 

Phallus,  27. 

—  impudicus,  117. 

—  section  of  young  impu- 

dicus, 119. 
Phlebia,  94. 
Pholiota,  38. 

—  adiposa,  83. 

—  limonella,  83. 

—  praecox,  84. 
Phycomycetes,  9,  17. 
Phylae,  7. 
Physalacria,  98. 

Pileus,  146  ;  the  cap  of  a 

mushroom. 
Pilosace,  39,  82. 


Index  and  Glossary 


Pinkish  puffball,  125. 
Pistachio  nuts,  78. 
Pistil  of    St.    Johnswort, 
6. 

—  of  violet,  6. 
Pistil  Clavaria,  101. 
Pistillaria,  98. 
Pleurotus,  32. 

—  ostreatus,  57. 

—  sapidus,  58. 

—  ulmarius,  58. 
Pliny,  135. 
Pluteus,  37. 

—  cervinus,  87. 
Poison  Amanita,  48. 
Poisoning,  cases  of,  49. 

—  of     herbarium    sheets, 

150. 

—  recipes  for,  150. 
Poisonous,  48,  49,  151. 
Pollen,  4,  6. 
Polypodium  vulgare,  6. 
Polyporacese,  31,  42,  102, 

109. 
Polypori,  no. 

—  to  prepare,  155. 
Polyporus,  42. 

—  arcularius,  112. 

—  circinatus,  113. 

—  conchatus,  ill. 

—  fomentarius,  HO. 

—  megaloma,  no. 

—  perennis,  in. 

—  pergamenus,  ill. 

—  squamosus,  112. 

—  sulphureus,  in. 

—  velutinus,  in. 
Pores,   14 ;    the   openings 

of  the  spore-bearing 
tubes. 

—  easily  separating  from 

the  adjoining  tissue, 
44,  102. 

—  in  radiating  rows,  102. 

—  in    the   form   of  tubes 

whose     mouths    are 
separated,  44,  102. 

—  long-hexagonal,  43. 


Pores,  permanently  united 
to  adjoining  tissue, 
42,  102. 

—  separating    with    diffi- 

culty, 45. 

—  to  prepare  woody,  155. 

Pouch  fungi,  14,  23,  123. 

Pruinose,  146  ;  as  if  frost- 
ed with  a  bloom  or 
powder. 

Psathyra,  39,  82. 

Psathyrella,  40,  92. 

Psilocybe,  39,  82. 

Protoplasm,  144  ;  the  vis- 
cid, contractile,  semi- 
fluid substance  of 
an  animal  or  vege- 
table cell. 

Protozoa,  144  ;  unicellular 
microscopic  animals. 

Pterula,  99. 

Puffballs,  3,  4,  123. 

—  salad,  155. 

—  to  cook,  155. 
Purple  Boletus,  107. 
Pycnodon,  94. 

Radulum,  94. 
Resupinate,  31. 
Ring,  12. 

—  movable,  63. 
Rodman's  mushroom,  76. 
Romans,  I. 

Rough-dried  plants,  149. 
Russia,  49. 

Russula,  3,  35. 

—  care  of  spores,  148. 

—  emetica,  68. 

—  heterophylla,  70. 

—  to  prepare  for  cooking, 

154- 

—  virescens,  69. 

Salmon  fungus,  9. 
Saprophytes,  123. 
Scaly  Lentinus,  56. 
Schizophyllum,  33,  67. 
Scleroderma.  133- 

r/2 


Scleroderma  vulgare,   134. 
Sclerodermatales,  25,  133. 
Seed-boxes,  6,  8. 
Sensitive  plant,  89. 
Shaggy -mane,  ii,  v,  viii,  90. 
Shelley,   I,  2,  89. 
Silver  fir,  6. 
Simblum,  26. 

—  rubescens,  122. 
Sinuate,  35  ;    said  of  gills 

which  have  a  notch  or 
recess  near  the  stem. 

Slime  fungi,  144. 

Smallest  Earth-star,  130. 

Smith,  Rev.  Gerard,  3. 

Smokeballs,  123. 

Smooth  Lepiota,  64. 

Smuts,  2,  14,  22. 

Sparassis  crispa,  99. 

Spathularia,   21,  138. 

—  velutipes,  138. 
Species,  7,  16. 
Specimens,  7. 

—  care  of,  147. 
Spencer,  2,  5. 
Sphaeriales,  136. 
Sphaerobolus,  133. 
Spines,  14,  41. 
Spore-dust  to  stanch  blood, 

127. 
Spore  print,  4. 

—  receptacle,  10. 
Spore-sac  fungi,  9,  17,  18, 

135- 

Spores,  ii  ;  single  cells 
which  serve  the  same 
purpose  for  fungi  as 
seeds  do  for  flowering 
plants. 

—  black,  32,  46,  89-92. 

—  brown,  38,  73-83. 

—  colour,  4. 

—  collecting  of,  147. 

—  dark  brown,  32,   73-83. 

—  dissemination     of,     4, 

118, 126,131,133,137. 

—  elliptical,  72. 

—  fusiform,  40. 


Index  and  Glossary 


Spores,  how  formed,  12. 

—  in  a  definite  rind,  14, 

23,  123. 

—  on  spicules,  9. 

—  pink,  36,  46,  87,  88. 

—  purplish-brown,  32. 
• —  rough,  69. 

—  rosy,  32,  87,  88. 

—  rusty    brown,     32,    46, 

83-87. 

—  salmon,  32,  87,  88. 

—  violet,  32,  58. 

—  white,  32,  46-73. 

—  yellowish  -  brown,     32, 

83-87. 

Spreading  Hydnum,  195. 
State  botanist,  150. 
Stem,  12,  13. 

—  cartilaginous,  35. 

—  central,  60. 

—  characters  of,  46. 

—  cup  at  base,  47,  49,  50, 

54,  88. 

—  eccentric,  56. 

—  fleshy,  5. 

—  hollow,  50. 

—  lateral,  58. 

—  mealy,  46. 

—  rusty,  46. 

—  smooth,  46. 

—  solid,  56. 

—  swollen  base,  48. 

—  wanting,  113. 
Sterigmata,    9,     17  ;     the 

slender  stalks  or 
spicules  upon  which 
the  spores  of  the 
Basidiomycetes  are 
borne. 

Sterile,  29  ;  not  containing 
spores. 

—  base,  125. 
Stinkhorns,  24, 26, 117, 123. 


Stipe,  12  ;  stem  of  fun- 
gus. 

Striate,  35,  50 ;  said  of 
the  cap  when  marked 
with  radiating 
straight  lines  on  the 
margin. 

Strobilomyces,  102. 

Stroma,  136 ;  a  compact 
mass  of  mycelium 
which  unites  the 
pear-shaped  bodies 
in  which  spore-sacs 
are  contained. 

Stropharia,  39,  82. 

Sulphury  polyporus,  III. 

Sistotrema,  94. 

Tall  Lepiota,  63. 

Thelephoraceae,  73. 

Tinder,  127  ;  dry  material 
which  will  ignite 
without  explosion 
when  in  contact  with 
a  spark. 

Toadstool,  2,  8. 

Tox-albumins,  48 ;  poi- 
sonous proteids  pro- 
duced by  bacteria. 

Trama,  42  ;  a  middle  tis- 
sue between  two  lay- 
ers of  spore-bearing 
tissue. 

Trametes,  42,  no,  113. 

—  cinnabarina,  113. 

—  pini,  113. 

—  suaveolens,  113. 
Tremellines,  22. 
Tremellodon,  116. 
Tricholoma,  35. 

—  care  of  spores,  148. 

—  personatum,     care     of 

sporse,  149. 


Tricholoma  personatum, 
rar.  bulbosum,  72. 

Trogia,  33. 

Truffles,  18. 

Tuberales,  18,  30,  135. 

Tufted  yellow  mushroom, 
80. 

Tunbridge  ware,  137. 

Typhula,  98. 

Umbilicate,  146  ;  provided 
with  a  central  depres- 
sion. 

Umbonate,  63  ;  provided 
with  a  central  promi- 
nence. 

Uncertain  Hypholoma,  8. 

Variable  Russula,  70. 

Veil,  12,  113;  the  mem- 
brane which  covers 
the  spore  surface  of 
a  fungus  in  the  young 
stage. 

Velvety  Spathularia,  138. 

Venenarius,  see  Amanita. 

Verdette,  69. 

Vermilion  Hygrophorus, 
60. 

Vernal  Amanita,  65. 

Vibrissea,  139. 

—  circinans,  140. 

—  truncorum,  139. 
Volva,  34,  46,  52. 

—  of  mutinus,  120. 
Volvaria,  36,  88. 

Water-measuring  Earth- 
star,  130. 

White  Hydnum,  95. 
Wrapper,  47, 49,  50,  51, 54. 

Xylaria,  136. 
Yeast  plant,  9. 


'73 


