rF 


t 


rh'o    ^OOgg^Q^ 


Gi 


■^ 


Estate 


ivEN  By 

of  Miss  Maria  Parloa 


MY  MOTHER'^ 

COOK  BOOK 


COMPILED  BY 


LADIES    OF    ST.  LOUIS, 


AND  SOLD  FOR  VHE  BENEFIT  OF  THE 


WOMEN'S   CHRISTIAN  HOME. 


"Co.j)kery-'3  au  Art.      •.  • 
Siill  ciiaiigiiig  and  of  radiiieiitary  triymplx  ;  .  ^ 
Know,  on  thyseli"  thy  genius 'mu*t  depend  ; ' 
All  books  of  Cookery,  all  helps  of  Art, 
Are  vain,  if  void  of  genius  thou  wouldst  cook." 


SAIXT    LOUIS: 

HUGH  R.  HILDRETH  PRINTING  COMPANY,  407  N.  FOURTH  STREET.        , 

18«0.  \^ 


. 


%oof-3oj 


V</\T^  ■  i^x;  Vk-AM  '<i\k.Pt  ♦va  ^.  v^t^A 


\ 


</C/ 


rv\^^^^«\ 


We  feel  ourselves  under  great  obligations  to  the  many  ladies  who  have  contributed 
their  recipes,  and  also  to  the  advertisers  who  have  so  kindly  aided  in  accomplishing 


our  work. 


Mrs.  E.  F.  Richards. 
Misses  Gi.over. 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  187").  in  the  Office  of  the 
Librarian  of  Congress,  at  AVa.shington. 


MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


What  an  euphonious  title! — one  we  would  not  venture 
to  change  or  presume  to  rival  in  many  respects ;  but  as  we 
(the  daughters)  are  living  in  an  age  of  progress,  we  will 
venture  to  suggest,  without  any  disrespect  to  our  mothers, 
that  while  their  theories  were  perfect,  we  wish  to  add  some 
suggestions  and  recipes,  which,  in  our  experience,  we  have 
found  successful,  and  great  improvements  on  the  former 
editions,  and  have  won  for  us  from  "  the  lords  of  creation  " 
the  pleasing  commendation,  "  Wife,  jour  cooking  of  this 
(or  that)  dish  has  outdone  our  mothers — a  thing  we  con- 
sidered impossible." 

In  view  of  these  most  wonderful  achievements  in  liouse- 
hold  good,  we  have  been  stimulated  to  add  new  recipes, 
and  to  send  this  Cook  Book  forth  into  the  world,  confident 
of  success,  as  every  young  housekeeper  who  is  encountering 
the  "fiery  trials  of  life,"  will  find  remedies  for  most  of  the 
ills  that  flesh  is  heir  to,  and  the  means  of  securing  happi- 
ness, and  sunshine  too,  for  her  household,  following  Solo- 
mon's advice,  "giving  meat  to  her  household  and  a  portion 
to  her  maidens,"  well  cooked  and  palatable. 


CONTRIBUTORS 


MRfs.  T.  J.  ALBRIGHT,  Kirkwood. 
"     CORNELIA  BEER,  St.  Louis. 
Prof.  BLOT. 

Mrs.  CHAS.  CULLIS,  Boston. 
"     SAM'L  COPP.  St.  Loris. 
"     J.  G.  CHAPMAM,  St.  Louis. 
"     S.  C.  CUMMINS,  St.  Louis. 
"      HUGH  CAMPBELL. 
"     WM.  CLAFLIN,  Boston. 
"     J.  T.  DAVIS,  St.  Louis. 
"     H.  N.  DAVIS,  St.  Louis. 
"      ADMIRAL  DUPONT. 

"     WM.  G.  ELIOT,  St.  Louis. 

"     T.  B.  EDGAR,  St.  Louis. 

"     EZRA  FARNSWORTH,  Boston. 

"     R.  F.  FROST,  Boston. 

"     HENRY  FARNUM,  Boston. 

"     O.  D.  FILLEY,  St.  Louis. 

"     GILES  F.  FILLEY,  St.  Louis. 

"     U.  S.  GRANT. 

"     S.  T.  GLOVER,  St.  Louis. 
Miss  E.  L.  GLOVER,  St.  Louis. 


Mrs.  a.  M.  GARDNER,  St.  Louis. 

"  H.  HENDERSON,  Maryland. 

"  LEWIS  E.  KLINE,  St.  Louis. 

"  J.  M.  KRUM,  ST.  Louis. 

"  S.  LARKIN,  St.  Louis. 

"  J.  B.  LOUDERMAN,  St.  Louis. 

"  GEO.  LEIGHTON,  St.  Louis. 

"  H.  McKITTRICK,  St.  Louis. 

"  R.  H.  MORTON,  St.  Louis. 

"  H.  C.  MOORE,  St.  Louis. 

"  WM.  NOYES,  St.  Louis. 

"  N.  W.  PERKINS,  St.  Louis. 

"  D.  R.  POWELL,  St.  Louis. 

"  AVERY  PLUMMER,  Boston. 

"  T.  T.  RICHARDS,  St.  Louis. 

"     E.  F.  RICHARDS,  St.  Louis. 

"  S.  A.  RANLETT,  St.  Louis. 

"  JOSEPH  STORY,  Boston. 

"  SAM'L  TREAT,  St.  Louis. 

"      LOUISE  VOGT,  St.  Louis. 

"     SHEPARD  WELLS,  St.  Louis. 

"     D.  C.  YOUNG,  St.  Louis. 
OTHERS. 


PREFACE. 


A  GENUINE  Cook  Book.  Not  a  series  of  experimental 
conjectures  evolved  from  the  consciousness  of  a  brilliant 
theorist  in  cooking,  but  a  batch  of  practical  recipes  that 
have  been  embodied  in  luscious  dishes,  and  bear  the  cre- 
dentials of  gratified  appetites. 

This  is  an  attempt  to  falsify  that  sad  proverb :  "  The 
Lord  sends  food — cooks  come  from  another  direction.''''  This 
book  proves  that  food  and  cooks  may  both  have  a  celestial 
origin.  This  is  the  domestic  balm  in  Gilead.  Here  may  the 
gratified  husband  find  all  those  marvellous  puddings,  pies 
and  i)ickles  with  which  "his  mother"  stimulated  and  ap- 
peased his  appetite  when  he  was  a  clothes-consuming, 
cotton-headed  school-boy.  Here  may  the  youth  who  is 
shedding  his  primal  petticoats  find  the  miraculous  viands 
with  which  grandma  has  made  Saturday  afternoon  a  fore- 
taste of  Heaven.  Here  may  the  timid,  trembling,  untried 
housekeeper,  transplanted  from  her  home  of  luxury  to  the 
three-roomed  "straight  jimmie"  of  a  struggling  and 
poverty-burdened  husband,  find  herself  transformed  into  a 
$4,000  French  cook;  while  the  world-wearied,  exacting 
husband,  who  has  worked  into  the  tapestry  that  adorns  the 
walls  of  his  poor  wife's  memory  the  dreary  words :  "You 
ought  to  have  seen  how  my  mother  could  make  it;"  or 
filled  her  brain  with  the  raven-like  monotone:  "Mother 
knew  how  to  cook,"  will  find  "my  mother's"  brilliant  sue- 


6  MY  MOTHER' ti  COOK  BOOK. 

cesses  reproduced,  and  will  be  forced  to  acknowledge  that 
if  Paradise  was  lost  by  an  apple,  it  may  be  regained  by  an 
apple  pie. 

This  book  will  render  Divorce  Courts  an  expensive 
luxury,  instead  of  a  social  necessity.  It  is  the  housekeeper's 
Magna  Charta.  Her  Emancipation  Proclamation.  It  is  the 
first  eloquent  muttering  of  the  domestic  revolution  by  which 
Ethiopia  and  Hibernia  will  be  hurled  from  their  throne,  the 
Saxon  race  regain  its  supremacy,  and  those  terrible  kitchen 
mandates  issued  by  Bridget  and  Dinah,  before  which  the 
young  wife  was  wont  to  tremble  and  turn  pale,  will  be  as 
powerless  as  the  Pope's  bull  against  the  comet. 

The  recipes  gathered  into  this  priceless  volume  have 
been  sent  from  all  parts  of  the  known  world;  several  even 
from  New  Jersey.  Many  delicacies  were  expected  from  the 
centre  of  Africa,  by  the  courtesy  of  Stanley,  but  these 
have  been  unavoidably  detained.  King  "  Calico,"  remem- 
bering gratefully  the  hospitality  of  the  "  Future  Great," 
has  sent  a  rare  and  valuable  recipe  of  his  grandfather's,  of  a 
delicious  i)reparation  of  cold  missionary  and  queen  olives, 
while  an  amiable  and  almond-eyed  celestial  sends  a  recipe 
for  the  cooking  of  a  common  and  inexpensive  domestic 
rodent.  Rut  these  delicacies  are  withheld  out  of  deference 
to  venerable  prejudices. 

Yet  the  most  fastidious  alderman  need  not  dread  famine. 
Here  is  a  wilderness  of  pies,  [)uddings,  pickles,  jellies  and 
jams;  here  are  more  cookies  and  cream  pies  than  could  be 
found  at  a  charitable  Sunday-school  picnic;  every  species 
of  pie,  except  the  "  humble  pie"  of  Uriah  Heep ;  mince  pies 
so  (concentrated  in  power,  that  a  cubic  inch  is  guaranteed 
to  produce  a  kaleidoscopic  vision  of  your  grandmother; 
l)icklos  of  such  potency  that  they  aie  warranted  to  produce 


PREFACE. 


that  delicate  greenness  of  complexion  and  angularity  of 
contour  so  much  prized  by  young  damsels  in  their  earliest 
giggleJiood,  and  popularly  supposed  to  be  solely  the  fruit 
of  a  free  consumption  of  slate  pencils. 

The  book  reaches  its  eloquent  culmination  in  the  pro- 
duction of  a  Hash,  in  whose  complex  composition  may  be 
found  representatives  from  the  entire  animal  and  vegetable 
kingdoms.  As  the  secret  of  its  structure  has  been  hidden 
from  the  foundation  of  the  world,  it  is  appropriately  called 
"  mystery."  This  recipe  alone  is  worth  the  price  of  the 
book.  It  is  the  triumph  of  eclecticism.  It  simplifies  social 
economy  by  absolutely  preventing  waste.  It  is  the  redemp- 
tion of  the  Boarding  House.  It  will  ultimately  promote  the 
interests  of  general  education  by  transforming  the  college 
hash  from  what  it  is  into  "a  thing  of  beauty  and  a  joy 
forever." 


MEASURE. 


Wheat  Flour 1  pound  is  1  quart. 

Indian  Meal 1  pound  2  ounces  is  1  quart. 

Butter,  when  soft 1  pound  is  1  quart. 

Loaf  Sugar,  broken 1  pound  is  1  quart 

White  Sugar,  powdered 1  pound  1  ounce  is  1  quart. 

Best  Brown  Sugar 1  pound  2  ounces  is  1  quart. 

Ten  Eggs are  1  quart. 

Flour four  pecks  are  1  bushel. 

10  large  tea.spoonfuls are  1  pint. 

8       "  "  are  1  gill. 

4        "  "  are  Vi  giU- 

A  common  size  tumbler is  ]4  pint. 

"  "        wine  glass is  J^  gill. 

A  tea  cup is  1  gill. 

A  large  wine  gla.ss is  1  gill. 

A  large  tablesjwonfnl is  ]4  ounce. 

40  drops  equal  to 1  teaspoonful. 

4  teaspoonfuls  equal  to 1  iablespoonftil. 


A  WORD  ABOUT  COOKING. 


Assuming  that  the  recipes  contained  in  this  book,  for  the 
preparation  of  our  food,  have  been  compiled  with  all  the 
care  that  skill  and  experience  could  suggest,  we  are  naturally 
led  a  step  further,  to  inquire  whether  these  beneficent  results 
are  not  too  frequently  neutralized  in  those  succeeding  stages 
which  attend  the  cooking  of  the  food  itself.  While  we  can- 
not overestimate  the  im])ortance  of  good  wholesome  cooking 
to  the  health  and  comfort  of  our  daily  life,  there  is  no  de- 
partment in  which  its  fundamental  rules  are  less  understood 
or  more  generally  disregarded. 

Count  Rumford,  who  spent  a  life-time  in  exi)erimenting 
upon  the  best  modes  of  cooking,  has  given  to  the  world  the 
true  theory,  which  has  been  confirmed  by  experience,  and 
may  be  summed  up  in  the  sentence — 

USE  LESS  FUEL,  AND  TAKE  LONGER  TIME. 

He  urges  the  economical  use  of  heat  by  using  but  little 
fuel,  and  taking  more  time  in  all  its  various  operations;  for 
it  is  strictly  true,  that  good  cooking  cannot  he  done  in  a  hurry 

For  instance,  a  loaf  of  bread  cannot  be  thoroughly 
baked  in  less  than  one  hour.  A  sufficient  time  must  be 
allowed  for  the  generation  of  the  gas  produced  by  yeast, 
which  gives  the  loaf  when  done  its  spongy  character  that 
renders  it  light  and  wholesome.  To  secure  this  result  the 
oven  must  not  be  too  hot.     A  temperature  of  350  degrees  is 


10  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 

the  utmost  required  for  any  kind  of  bread.  The  process  is 
greatly  aided,  and  a  highly  favorable  result  secured,  by 
placing  the  equivalent  of  a  saucer  of  water  in  the  oven 
with  the  bread  while  baking. 

It  may  be  well  at  this  point  to  suggest  how  to  regulate 
the  Stove. 

When  the  oven  is  well  heated,  place  within  it  the 
article  to  be  baked,  and  at  once  close-  the  front  draft  as  far 
as  possible,  simply  admitting  just  enough  air  to  carry  off 
the  smoke,  after  which  two  sticks  of  wood  (or  their  equiva- 
lent) are  sufiflcient  to  complete  the  work. 

For  roasting  meats  a  still  less  beat  is  required  than  for 
bread — a  temperature  of  200  degrees  being  enough,  and 
better  than  more;  but  it  is  well  to  remember  that  the 
presence  of  water  in  the  oven  is  as  essential  in  the  cooking 
of  meats  as  in  baking  bread.  A  most  excellent  plan  is 
adopted  of  using  two  drip  pans,  one  within  the  other,  the 
larger  one  containing  the  water,  while  the  meat  is  placed  in 
the  smaller  one. 

Meats  should  always  be  well  basted  at  intervals  during 
the  process  of  cooking. 

An  observance  of  these  simple  rules  will  effectually 
remove  all  complaints  which  follow  the  ignorant  use  of  the 
modern  oven,  and  we  shall  no  more  be  reminded  of  the 
superiority  of  moats  roasted  before  the  tire  "as  mg  mother 
used  to  do  it." 

At  the  risk  of  rei)eating  what  has  already  been  said,  we 
cannot  too  strongly  urge  that  tlie  true  secret  of  baking 
either   meats    or  bread    consists    in    using  nuT    a    small 

QUANTITY   OF   FUEL. 

As  a  rule,  one-half  the  usual  weight  consumed  is  ample 
to  do  the  work,  and  do  it  well ;  a  saving  is  thus  effected  in 


A    WORD  ABOUT  COOKING.  11 

the  cost  of  fuel  and  in  the  wear  and  tear  of  tlie  stove  as 
well,  while  the  work  is  done  much  more  satisfactorily. 

Whilst  we  advocate  the  use  of  a  small  quantity  of  fuel 
to  do  good  cooking,  we  also  recommend  the  use  of  large 
cooking  stoves  to  do  the  work  of  a  family.  Large  stoves 
are  cheaper  in  proportion  to  their  size  than  smaller  ones. 
The  plates  are  usually  heavier,  they  will  last  longer,  and  as  a 
rule  do  better  cooking.  The  plates  of  a  stove  should  never 
be  made  red-hot ;  whenever  this  is  the  case,  it  is  certain 
that  there  is  too  much  fuel  used.  Iron  at  red  heat,  visible 
by  day,  shows  a  temperature  of  over  a  thousand  degrees ; 
at  red  heat,  visible  iu  twilight,  of  over  800  degrees;  bright 
red  in  the  dark,  of  over  seven  hundred  and  fifty  degrees; 
which  is  more  than  twice  the  amount  of  heat  required 
for  any  ordinary  cooking.  Coal  is  more  difficult  to  manage 
than  wood ;  where  it  is  used  great  care  should  be  taken, 
using  as  small  a  quantity  as  possible.  What  has  been  said 
in  regard  to  cooking  stoves  applies  as  well  to  heating  stoves, 
for  both  economy  and  durability. 


MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


SOUPS. 


The  best  soups  are  made  from  fresh  bones  and  raw  meat 
simmered  gently  for  five  or  six  hours.  Soups  ought  never 
to  boil  fast,  and  every  particle  of  grease  must  be  carefully 
skimmed  off.  After  cooking  some  time  it  is  better  to  set 
aside  until  the  next  day,  and  then  it  ought  to  be  a  jelly, 
from  which  all  the  grease  and  sediment  must  be  wiped  oft". 
The  second  day  this  stock  can  be  put  on  about  two  hours 
before  dinner,  add  the  vegetables  chopped  or  grated  fine, 
salt,  pepper,  celery  seed  or  tops,  and  about  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  rubbed  into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
for  thickening.  Have  some  toasted  bread  cut  into  small 
squares  in  the  tureen  and  pour  over  the  soup. 

Soups  can  be  made  much  richer  by  seasoning  with  any  of 
the  ketchups  or  meat  sauces,  such  as  Worcestershire  sauce, 
walnut  ketchup,  etc. ;  summer  savory,  sweet  marjoram  and 
celery  seeds  are  also  nice;  a  glass  of  wine,  eggs  boiled  hard 
and  chopped  tine,  orange  cut  in  very  fine  pieces,  without 
peeling.  Some  like  lemon,  while  to  others  it  ruins  the  soup, 
so  the  best  plan  is  to  slice  the  lemons  and  pass  around  after 
the  soup  is  served.  To  make  soups  dark  thicken  with  flour 
that  has  been  browned  in  the  oven,  or  brown  sugar  burnt 
black ;  stale  bread  toasted  in  the  oven  rolled  fine,  makes  a 
nice  thickening.  The  general  rule  in  making  soup  is  to 
allow  one  pound  of  meat  to  one  quart  of  water. 


14  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


PEA  SOUP. 

A  pint  aud  a  half  of  split  peas;  two  small  oiiions; 
pepper  aud  salt  to  taste.  Use  three  quarts  of  water  aud 
boil  from  five  to  six  hours.  Pork  is  ofteu  put  iu,  but  makes 
the  soup  far  less  wholesome.  If  the  water  is  hard,  add  a 
piece  of  saleratus  not  larger  than  a  pea.  It  would  be  diffi- 
cult to  find  a  way  iu  which  the  same  amount  of  nourishment 
could  be  obtained  for  four  times  what  this  cost. — Hearth 
AND  Home. 

BROWN  SOUP. 

Take  a  beef  shin  and  boil  all  day  until  it  will  become  a 
jelly,  when  cold,  strain  it  and  set  away  until  the  next  day. 
Then  take  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg-,  a  large  onion ; 
brown  together  in  the  same  pan,  then  put  in  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  brown  flour,  two  carrots  if  small,  two 
turnips  if  small,  piece  of  celery,  little  thyme,  little  parsley, 
allspice,  mace,  cloves,  to  taste.  I  generally  take  three  or 
four  cloves,  one  piece  of  mace  (small),  little  pinch  of  allspice ; 
if  you  have  not  Chili  pepper  use  common  pepper;  salt, 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Let  it  cook  slowly  all  day.  When 
the  vegetables  are  thoroughly  cooked,  press  them  well 
through  the  strainer  to  get  all  the  substance;  put  in  a  little 
macaroni,  heaping  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine,  force  meat 
balls ;  let  the  macaroni  cook,  then  serve  it. 

Mrs.  W.  Maurice. 


CHICKEN  GUMBO. 

Disjoint  an  old  chicken  aud  fry  brown  in  hot  lard,  after- 
wards fry  in  the  same  lard  a  small  piece  of  ham,  one-half 
the  size  of  your  hand,  and  a  sliced  onion;  put  it  into  the 
kettle  with  four  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  slowly  for 
four  hours;  one  quart  of  sliced  gumbo  and  one  pint  of  sliced 
tomatoes  (or  a  whole  can  if  in  winter) ;  corn  or  celery  tops 
improves  it,"  one-half  dozen  cloves,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Serve  with  boiled  rice. 


SOUP.  15 


VEAI.  SOUP. 

Put  into  a  pot  a  knuckle  of  veal  that  Las  been  cracked 
in  three  or  four  places  and  carefully  washed  to  get  off  all  the 
little  pieces  of  bone ;  cover  with  about  one  gallon  of  water 
and  let  it  simmer  from  two  to  three  hours,  the  longer  the 
better,  skim  well;  about  one  hour  and  a  half  before  dinner, 
add  a  little  onion,  pieces  of  minced  celery  or  celery  seed, 
salt,  pepper;  as  veal  makes  a  white  soup  it  is  very  nice  to 
add  two  cups  of  vermicelli  or  macaroni  broken  in  inch 
pieces;  or  the  same  vegetables  may  be  added  and  in  the 
same  way  as  for  beef  soup.  Veal  soup  can  be  used  the  same 
day  as  made. 

VEAL  SOUP. 

Boil  a  knuckle  of  veal  with  a  cup  of  rice ;  set  it  away  till 
next  day,  add  four  eggs,  one  lemon,  a  little  salt;  strain  it, 
beat  the  eggs  and  lemon  together  in  the  tureen,  and  pour 
the  soup  on  it.  Mrs.  Sam'l  Treat. 

BEEF  SOUP. 

Take  a  bone  with  a  nice  piece  of  meat  attached  to  it, 
have  the  bone  cracked  in  two  or  three  places  so  as  to  get 
the  marrow,  then  cover  with  three  or  four  quarts  of  water ; 
let  it  boil  slowly  for  four  hours  or  more,  skimming  well  all 
the  time,  then  put  aside  until  the  next  day.  About  two 
hours  before  dinner  skim  oft'  all  the  fat  and  grease  which 
will  be  found  caked  on  top  of  the  soup,  pour  oft'  carefully 
from  the  sediment  at  the  bottom,  then  cook  again,  adding 
such  vegetables  as  you  may  wish ;  tomatoes,  gumbo,  a  red 
pepper,  a  soup  bunch  having  the  parsley  minced  fine,  the 
carrot  grated,  the  onion  and  other  things  chopped  fine ; 
season  with  salt,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  butter 
rubbed  together ;  before  serving,  some  jirefer  to  have  all  the 
pieces  of  meat  and  thick  part  of  vegetables  strained  out. 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP. 

Soak  one  quart  of  beans  over  night,  and  keep  them 
warm ;  drain  oft'  the  water ;  add  fresh ;  cook  gently  four  or 


16  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


live  hours,  addiug  water  as  it  boils  away;  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  cloves,  while  cooking.  When  done,  strain 
thoroughly ;  put  in  three  slices  of  lemon,  a  sliced  hard-boiled 
egg,  and  small  pieces  of  toasted  bread.  Stock  can  be  used 
instead  of  water. 

BEASf  SOUP. 

One  soup-bone,  four  or  live  pounds;  one  soup-bunch; 
one  pint  of  beans,  soaked  over  night.  Boil  the  meat  in  a 
gallon  and  a  half  of  water,  for  two  hours ;  skim  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil.  Put  in  the  soup-bunch  cut  up;  three  or 
four  sliced  potatoes ;  three  or  four  sliced  onions,  fried  in  a 
tablespoouful  of  lard ;  dredge  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
browned  flour;  season;  if  any  more  water  is  needed,  add  it 
boiling.     Boil  all  for  three  hours.     Strain  before  serving. 

Mary  Colburt. 


SOl'R  I>OCK  M>UP. 

Take  a  quantity  of  the  greens,  clean  the  leaves  from  the 
stems.  Put  in  a  sauce-pan  a  piece  of  butter,  when  melted 
l)ut  in  the  greens,  let  it  come  to  a  stew.  Pour  in  a  cup  or 
two  of  water;  when  boiled,  take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beat 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream ;  stir  in  and  it  is  fin- 
ished; add  a  little  salt.  This  is  an  excellent  dish  for  the 
sick.  Louise  Vogt. 

MOCK  TURTLK  SOI  P. 

First  day.  Take  one  large  calf's  head,  with  skin  on  ;  let 
the  butcher  open ;  remove  the  eyes  and  nose ;  wash  in  cold 
water  several  times.  Take  out  the  brains,  skin  and  tie  them 
in  a  thin  cloth;  i)ut  in  a  pot  with  the  head  and  three  quarts 
of  water.  Skim  carefully,  while  boiling  one  hour;  take  out 
the  brains  and  put  aside ;  add  to  the  soup  two  onions,  two 
turnips,  one  leek,  a  bunch  of  parsley;  cover  and  let  stand 
where  it  boils  gently  seven  hours.  At  the  same  time  put 
in  a  second  pot,  one  old  hen,  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  three 


SOUP.  17 

quarts  water;  boil  seven  hours;  let  stand  over  night  and 
skim  off  the  fat  next  morning.  Second  day.  Take  a  stew 
pan  that  holds  six  quarts,  put  on  the  tire  with  one-half  pound 
good  butter,  twelve  ouuces  sliced  onions,  four  ounces  green 
sage;  let  this  fry  one  hour,  then  add  the  entire  contents  of 
the  two  pots  cooked  the  day  previous,  and  season  the  whole 
with  one-half  ounce  black  pepper,  one-fourth  ounce  ground 
allspice,  one  tablespoouful  salt  and  one  of  curry  powder, 
little  cayenne  pepper,  the  yellow  rind  of  one  lemon  grated. 
Let  all  simmer  gently  two  hours,  stirring  often  to  prevent 
meat  sticking.  Strain  through  a  cotton  bag  into  a  clean  pot, 
add  one-half  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  juice  of  one  lemon,  boil 
one  hour,  and  add  meat  balls  while  boiling  and  just  before 
the  soup  is  done.  To  thicken,  brown  and  rub  smoothly  one 
pound  of  flour  into  one-fourth  pound  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
add  some  of  the  soup  by  degrees  until  it  is  thin  enough  to 
pour  into  the  soup ;  this  must  be  added  after  straining  and 
before  boiling  the  last  hour.  Meat  balls :  Chop  the  brains 
already  boiled  with  a  pinch  of  dried  thyme,  the  grated  peel 
of  one  lemon,  mix  all  with  two  eggs  and  flour  to  roll  into 
balls  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg,  and  fry  in  butter.  Egg  balls  (if 
preferred) :  The  yolk  of  one  Q.gg  and  flour  roll  in  small 
balls ;  or  use  the  yolks  of  twelve  hard  boiled  eggs ;  place  in 
the  tureen  and  pour  over  the  soup  just  before  serving. 

MOCK  TIJRTL.K    SOUP. 

One  pound  of  butter;  one-half  pound  of  flour;  two 
onions ;  two  carrots ;  allspice,  sage  and  thyme ;  whole 
pepper;  nutmeg;  slice  of  ham;  one  calf's  head,  boiled  and 
cut  small.  Boil  the  head  gradually  for  three  or  four  hours, 
skimming  the  grease  oft";  then  add  four  quarts  of  stock, 
made  of  any  kind  of  meat.  Make  egg  balls  of  the  yolks 
of  hard  boiled  eggs,  mixed  with  a  little  flour ;  also  meat 
balls,  made  of  veal  cut  very  fine,  mixed  with  the  yolks  of 
two  raw  eggs  ;  add  just  before  serving.  Color  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  burnt  brown  sugar.  Ten  minutes  before  dishing,  add 
half  a  glass  of  brandy  and  Madeira  wine. 


18  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


GUMBO  SOUP. 

Fry  a  knuckle  of  veal  in  butter,  with  pepper,  salt  and 
onions;  after  it  is  fried,  add  three  dozen  ochra,  skinned,  with 
the  ends  cut  off,  and  a  piece  of  ham.  Pour  two  gallons  of 
boiling  water  on  this ;  when  about  half  cooked,  add  four 
crabs ;  first  boil  them  and  divide  each  in  four  parts,  frying 
them  brown,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  About  two 
hours  before  dinner,  add  one  dozen  tomatoes,  with  the 
skins  taken  oft'. 

GUMBO  SOUP. 

Fry  five  or  six  slices  of  salt-pork ;  after  they  are  done, 
fry  six  large  onions  in  the  same  fat;  cut  up  and  fry  a  good 
sized  chicken ;  put  these  into  a  large  pot  with  a  small  piece 
of  lean  ham  and  two  quarts  of  water ;  when  it  boils  put  in 
one  quart  of  sliced  gumbo  and  the  cprn  cut  from  two  ears,  a 
few  tomatoes  if  you  like,  and  a  small  piece  of  red  pepper, 
no  salt.  Keep  adding  boiling  water  as  it  boils  away.  It 
should  be  on  the  fire  five  or  six  hours. 

Miss  Emily  Tucker. 

GUMBO  SOUP. 

Fry  one  large  chicken  or  a  knuckle. of  veal  with  two  or 
three  onions  in  a  little  lard  until  brown,  put  them  in  a  soup 
kettle  with  a  quart  of  gumbo  sliced  fine,  and  a  quart  of 
tomatoes  previously  peeled  and  sliced  ;  add  a  gallon  and  a 
half  of  water,  half  a  red  pepper ;  boil  slowly  four  or  five  hours 
and  stir  frequently  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Richards. 

MOCK  OYSTER  SOUP. 

One  pint  tomatoes,  well  stewed;  one  quart  boiling 
water;  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  soda;  when  it  has  done  foam- 
in'g  add  one  quart  boiling  milk  ;  a  piece  of  butter,  size  of  an 
egg.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  upon  three  soda 
crackers  rolled.  Mrs.  Sam'l  Copp. 


801TP.  19 


PIIiA^F— TURKISH  DISH. 

Prepare  a  rich  beef  soup;  season  with  tomatoes,  pepper 
and  salt;  and  while  it  is  boiling  add  about  half  the  quantity 
of  rice,  well  washed;  let  the  two  boil  together  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  the  soup  is  entirely  absorbed  by  the  rice. 
Melt  quickly  half  a  pound  of  best  butter,  mix  immediately 
with  the  rice,  and  serve  in  live  minutes.  If  desired  to  have 
meat  in  the  Pilaf,  take  either  chicken,  turkey,  or  lamb, 
roasted,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  i)ut  it  in  the  rice  while 
boiling,  ten  minutes  before  taking  from  the  fire,  and  before 
putting  on  the  butter.  Mrs.  Jasigi. 

TrRTIiE    SOUP. 

You  must  have  the  turtle  alive;  cut  the  head  off  and  let 
it  bleed  to  death.  Boil  the  turtle  till  the  shells  can  be 
separated,  and  the  meat  is  cooked.  Take  off  the  gall 
bladder,  and  if  you  find  a  black  ball  (if  there  is  any)  throw 
it  away.  Put  butter  and  flour  in  a  sauce  pan,  and  the  pieces 
of  turtle  and  cook  a  little;  pour  in  some  broth;  put  in  your 
dish  a  lemon  cut  in  slices,  an  egg  boiled  and  cut  up ;  pour 
over  it  the  soup  and  meat  and  serve.  Prof.  Blot. 

BI^ACK,  OR  TIIRTI.E  BEAN   SOUP. 

Take  two  teacups  of  beans,  and  soak  them  in  water 
over  night;  then  add  three  quarts  of  stock  ;  let  it  boil  three 
hours;  adding  mace,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  pepper,  accord- 
ing to  taste;  two  onions;  pass  through  the  cullender,  and 
then  through  the  sieve;  put  in  the  tureen  the  juice  of  two 
lemons,  four  eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped  fine,  a  little 
Harvey  sauce,  then  pour  the  soup  on  it. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Cullis,  Boston. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

« 
Twelve  tomatoes,  peeled  and  cooked,  or  one  quart  can ; 

one  tablespoonful  soda;  one  quart  milk  ;  season  with  salt  and 

pepper;  just  before  taking  up,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  crackers 

or  bread  crumbs,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg. 


20  MT  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


TOMATO  SOIIP. 

One  quart  sliced  tomatoes;  two  quarts  cold  water:  a 
little  rice.  Let  it  come  to  aboil;  a  pinch  of  soda;  then  add 
two  cu])S  of  milk  ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  tlour;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Boil  ten  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  D.  Hutch,  Kirkwood. 

TOUA TO  SOUP. 

Take  a  nice  beef  bone  (marrow  is  best) ;  boil  in  one  gallon 
of  water  four  hours,  adding  hot  water  if  necessary;  then 
add  one  quart  of  tomatoes  and  two  onions  (medium  size) 
chopped  fine,  and  a  few  celery  tops ;  boil  one  and  a  half 
hours,  and  serve.     This  soup  is  best  the  second  day. 

Mrs.  Rainwater. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Boil  together  one  dozen  large  potatoes  and  three  onions, 
till  soft ;  mash  them  through  a  cullender,  and  stir  them  into 
one  quart  of  boiling  milk.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.  Mrs.  F.  G.  Goddard. 

LOBSTER  SOUP. 

Chop  the  lobster  tine;  add  the  green  part;  three  crackers 
pounded  fine;  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter;  have  one  quart 
of  milk  just  scalded  and  turn  over  it,  then  put  all  together 
and  bring  to  a  boil.  Mrs.  Xath.  Walker,  Boston.     . 

PIIIIiADKI.PHIA  PEPPER  POT. 

To  four  (|uarts  of  water  put  one  pound  corned  pork  and 
two  pounds  neck  mutton  or  veal,  cook  slowly  three  hours, 
then  take  out  the  mutton ;  i)ut  into  the  broth  four  turnips, 
and  if  in  season,  six  or  eight  tomatoes,  one  onion,  a  piece  of 
red  pepper,  and  a  very  little  salt.  Have  ready  boiled  oife- 
fourth  pound  of  nice  tripe  cut  into  small  pieces,  put  them  in 
with  six  potatoes  sliced  thin,  and  one  pint  bowl  of  nice  light 
dumplings  dropped  very  small.     Simmer  altogether  one  hour. 


SOUP.  21 


€ AI.F'S  H£AD  SOIP. 

Cover  the  head  well  with  water  aud  boil  iiutil  very  tender. 
Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones,  keeping  the  brains.  Have 
ready  three  large  onions  chopped  tine,  one  nutmeg  grated, 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves  and  two  of  cinnamon ;  put 
the  meat  and  spices  into  the  pot  with  a  small  cup  of  butter, 
pour  the  broth  over  and  stew  one  hour;  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  When  ready  to  serve  put  in  the  brains,  the  juice 
of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  claret  and  two  s])oonfuls  of  walnut 
catchup.  Miss  Emily  Tucker. 

B££F  BOUILI.I. 

Take  the  face  of  the  rump  and  put  it  on  to  boil  about  four 
hours;  after  it  has  been  on  half  an  hour  skim  it  well,  then 
add  carrots  and  turnips  cut  up  fine ;  roast  one  onion  brown 
on  the  coals,  stick  it  with  cloves  and  put  it  in  ;  add  half  a 
tumbler  of  red  wine  (port  is  better),  a  little  tomato  or  other 
catchup,  cayenne,  or  any  other  good  thing.  Before  serving- 
take  out  some  of  the  gravy  in  a  teacup  and  cut  up  a  pickled 
cucumber  into  slices  and  pour  over  the  beef. 

Mrs.  Sam'l  Treat. 

BE£F  BOUILLI. 

Wash  five  or  six  j)Ounds  of  the  round  of  beef  thoroughly 
in  cold  water ;  put  into  cold  water  and  salt,  and  boil  slowly 
five  or  six  hours ;  skim  well  and  add  celery,  onions,  carrots 
and  a  few  cloves;  a  little  sage;  let  the  meat  be  covered; 
tjrown  the  gravy  with  burned  tlour  or  sugar. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Cullis,  Boston. 

GREEN  PEA  POD  SOUP. 

Wash  the  pods  clean ;  cover  with  water  and  put  on  to 
boil  about  three  hours ;  strain  off  the  pods  through  the  cul- 
lender and  thicken  the  soup  with  tlour  and  butter  rubbed 
together;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  in  the  tureen 
some  pieces  of  bread  well  toasted  and  cut  in  small  squares, 
pour  the  sonp  over  and  serve  hot;  a  few  of  the  green  peas 
cooked  in  is  a  great  addition.  .      Maggie  Fanning. 


22  MY  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 


MIITTO:^  BROTH. 

When  you  have  miittou  boiled  for  dinner,  set  the  water 
it  has  been  boiled  in  away  to  cool.  The  next  day  an  hour  or 
so  before  dinner,  skim  off  the  cake  of  grease  that  will  be 
found  on  top ;  put  the  broth  on  to  cook  and  season  with  a 
good  deal  of  salt,  little  pepper ;  thicken  with  rice  or  barley. 

Mrs.  C.  T.  Kichards. 

CORN  SOUP. 

Take  one  dozen  ears  of  good  sweet  corn ;  grate  or  scrape 
the  corn  from  the  ears  ;  put  cobs  and  corn  into  four  quarts 
of  cold  water  with  a  good  sized  chicken  cut  up,  or  two 
pounds  of  veal ;  boil  two  hours,  then  take  out  the  corn  cobs  ; 
add  one  quart  or  more  of  sweet  milk  ;  let  it  boil  up,  then 
thicken  with  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  mixed  smooth  with  a 
little  flour ;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

SOUP  A  l^A  RE  INK. 

Seven  pounds  shank  of  veal ;  cold  water  enough  to  cover, 
after  skimming  add  six  large  onions,  cut  in  pieces  ;  handful 
of  green  parsley;  white  pepper,  not  ground  fine,  but  broken 
a  little.  After  it  is  thoroughly  boiled,  strain  through  a 
sieve.  Take  off  the  grease  from  the  top  and  return  to  the 
kettle ;  then  add  one  pint  and  a  half  of  cream ;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fiour  in  the  cream  ;  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
it  is  ready  to  serve.  Cook  in  a  porcelain  kettle ;  for  eight 
persons.  Mrs.  Cornelius  Beer. 

CORN  CHOWI>ER. 

Take  ten  ears  of  green  corn,  cut  from  cob ;  prepare  po- 
tatoes in  slices,  as  for  fish  chowder;  place  in  a  kettle 
alternate  layers  of  each ;  season  each  layer  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt;  put  in  a  pint  of  water;  let  it  boil  till  the 
))otatoes  are  cooked;  add  one  quart  of  milk;  thicken  with 
a  little  fiour;  add  crackers  soaked  in  milk.  Boil  up  once 
altogether. 


SOUP.  23 


Take  a  small  teaciipful  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt;  rub  in 
them  a  good  teaspoonfiil  of  butter;  add  sweet  milk  enough 
to  form  a  stiff  dough  ;  roll  very  thin;  cut  in  small  squares; 
drop  into  the  soup  and  boil  about  ten  minutes. 

Take  one  or  two  eggs,  according  to  the  quantity  required ; 
beat  up  light,  add  a  little  salt;  then  stir  in  flour  until 
stiff";  roll  out  thin  as  possible;  let  it  stand  to  dry  for  thirty 
minutes  or  more ;  after  drying  dredge  with  flour ;  roll  up 
close  as  you  would  a  sheet  of  music  ;  cut  oft'  shreds  as  thin 
as  possible ;  shake  them  apart  and  let  them  dry  a  while ; 
boil  in  the  soup  about  twenty  minutes. 


24  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


FISH 


TO  BOIL  FISH. 

Fisli  should  be  scaled  and  thoroughly  cleaned,  well 
salted,  and  put  in  a  cold  place  till  time  to  cook. 

Boil  in  a  tish  kettle,  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  or 
wrap  and  tie  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  in  any  cooking  vessel;  if 
the  fish  is  too  large,  it  can  be  doubled  in  the  cloth ;  cover 
with  more  than  two  inches  of  boiling  water,  adding  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  tablespoouful  of  vinegar  to  every 
pound  of  fish.  A  good  sized  fish  will  cook  in  half  an  hour. 
Be  careful  not  to  break  in  taking  it  out. 

Sauce.  Stir  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  mixed  with  tiour;  and  a  hard  boiled  egg, 
cut  up  fine;  pour  this  over  the  fish,  or  serve  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Filley. 

FRIED  FISH. 

Having  cleaned  the  fish  thoroughly,  wipe  dry;  score  it 
on  the  back,  in  deep  incisions  or  gashes;  and  slightly  dredge 
with  fiour,  i)epi)er  and  salt.  Be  sure  to  have  the  lard  boil- 
ing before  the  fish  is  put  into  it.  Mary  Colburt. 

KAK£D  FISH. 

Clean  and  wipe  the  fish  dry  ;  tie  a  string  round  the  head ; 
and  dredge  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt;  bake  in  a  pan  with 
butter  and  lard;  and  baste  it  often  while  baking;  a  good 
sized  fish  should  cook  in  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  If 
desired  it  can  be  stuiJed  with  the  same  dressing  used  for 
turkeys,  only  more  highly  seasoned. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Davis. 


FISH.  25 


FISH. 


A  very  uice  way  to  prepare  fish.  This  makes  au  orna- 
mental dish  for  the  table.  Take  Cusk  or  Halibut ;  boil  it ; 
make  it  fine  ;  add  sufficient  cream  or  melted  butter  to  make 
it  quite  moist ;  flavor  with  grated  lemon  peel,  a  very  little 
nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper,  with  mashed  potatoes ;  place  the 
fish  on  the  ])latter  and  ornament  the  top  with  beaten  white 
of  one  e.^g,]  let  it  stand  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  heat 
through ;  a  little  parsley  and  sliced  lemon  improves  the 
dish.  Mrs.  Wm.  Claflin,  Boston. 

STEWED  FISH. 

Fry  two  or  three  large  onions ;  have  the  fish  washed, 
dried,  peppered,  floured  and  salted ;  put  the  fish  in  with  the 
onions  and  cook  brown ;  add  a  little  good  stock  and  let  it 
stew,  add  a  spoonful  of  Harvey  sauce. 

Mrs.  C.  Cullis. 

CIJSK  A   I. A  CREME. 

A  fish  weighing  from  two  to  three  pounds ;  Cod,  Blue  fish 
or  Halibut  will  do ;  rub  well  with  salt  and  put  in  a  kettle 
with  enough  water  to  cover  it;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  set 
it  where  it  will  cool ;  when  cool  enough  take  out  the  bones  ; 
take  one  pint  of  milk  or  cream  and  boil  one  onion  and  a 
piece  of  mace  in  it;  work  smoothly  a  quarter  of  a  i)ound 
of  butter  with  some  flour;  stir  into  the  milk  until  it  thickens, 
making  a  smooth  sauce  by  straining;  add  a  little  pepper; 
lay  the  fish  on  a  deep  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it ;  sift 
crumbs  over  the  top.  Bake  from  half  to  three  quarters  of 
an  hour.  Mrs.  Chas.  Cullis,  Boston. 

TURBOT  A  I. A  CREME. 

Put  in  a  pudding  dish  layers  of  cooked  fish,  picked  over, 
and  bread  crumbs,  with  a  little  finely  chopped  onion ;  black 
pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Beat  up  an  egg  in  sufficient  milk 
to  come  to  the  top  layer.     Bake  about  half  an  hour. 


26  MY  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 


SCAI.I.OPED  liOBSTER. 

Butter  a  deep  dish  ;  cover  the  bottom  and  sides  with  fine 
crumbs  of  bread;  jmt  in  a  layer  of  chopped  boiled  lobster, 
with  pepi^er  and  a  little  salt;  cover  with  crumbs  and  a  little 
butter;  add  another  layer  of  lobster,  pepper  and  salt ;  cover 
as  before ;  put  in  the  liquor  of  the  lobster ;  bake  about 
twenty  minutes.  A  good  substitute  for  oysters  in  warm 
weather.  Mrs.  Joseph  Story,  Boston. 

liOBSTEK  FARS£E. 

Chop  the  Lobster  fine;  add  a  small  lump  of  butter,  half 
a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  salt  and  pepper;  make  into  small 
cakes;  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  cake;  bake  twenty 
minutes. 

FISH  PIDDIXG. 

Take  three  pounds  of  fresh  Cod  or  any  other  white  fish; 
boil  in  the  evening  and  after  cooking  take  out  the  bones  and 
mince  quite  fine ;  in  the  morning  make  a  drawn  butter  sauce 
of  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  little  flour,  butter,  salt 
and  pepper;  boil  all  together  and  mix  with  the  fish;  put  all 
in  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

FISH  SAUCE. 

Beat  a  teacup  of  butter  to  a  cream ;  add  a  little  French 
and  English  mustard,  the  Juice  of  one  lemon  and  chopped 
cucumber  pickle. 

FRFSII  FISir  WARMED  OVER. 

One  pint  of  fish  picked  fine,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  flour,  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  milk ; 
pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  each. 
Mix  smoothly  the  milk,  flour,  eggs  and  spice.  Set  this  sauce 
over  the  fire  and  stir  until  thick  as  cream.  Put  in  a  deep 
dish  alternately,  the  sauce,  fish  and  bread  crumbs  in  the 
order  mentioned;  brown  lightly  in  tlie  oven. 

Mrs.  Krum. 


FISH.  27 


COD  FISH. 

Pick  to  pieces  a  piut  of  Cod  fish  and  soak  it  over  night; 
if  not  sufficiently  fresh,  pour  cold  water  over  it  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil;  after  turning  off  the  water,  add  half  a  pint 
of  milk  or  cream;  a  dessertspoouful  of  butter;  when 
thoroughly  cooked  add  four  eggs. 

COD  I  IS1I  R£I.ISII. 

One  cup  salt  Cod  fish  shredded  fine ;  three  cups  hot  water, 
two  soda  crakers  broken  small;  butter  size  of  a  walnut; 
one  cup  of  milk ;  boil  all  together. 

Mrs.  S.  a.  Eanlett. 

COO  FISH  BALIiS. 

Cut  the  fish  in  pieces ;  put  to  soak  in  a  saucepan  with 
the  skin  side  up;  put  on  the  fire;  change  the  water  two  or 
three  times;  let  the  water  come  to  a  scald  (but  not  boil) 
when  soft  take  the  fish  out ;  skin  it ;  take  out  the  bones 
chop  very  fine ;  have  twice  as  much  mashed  potatoes  as  fish 
mix  together  with  a  little  milk  and  butter;  mould  into  small 
cakes  and  fry. 

FISH  BATiT.S. 

One  pint  dry  Cod  fish,  picked  to  pieces;  one  quart 
potatoes  peeled  and  sliced;  wash  the  fish,  but  not  soak  it; 
put  them  in  a  pan  together  and  boil  till  the  potatoes  are 
done  ;  drain  off  the  water ;  mash  them  up  together ;  add 
two  eggs  well  beaten ;  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  Qgg ; 
make  them  into  balls,  and  fry  immediately. 

C.  G.  Hill. 


28  MY  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 


OYSTERS. 


In  using  oysters  raw  always  buy  the  largest  you  can,  and 
if  you  are  going  to  serve  oysters  in  more  than  one  way,  it  is 
best  to  pick  out  the  largest  from  all  the  cans  for  raw,  or 
fried;  in  soups  and  other  things  it  does  not  make  so  much 
difference  about  the  size.  Eaw  oysters  must  be  served 
alone,  with  the  best  of  wine  or  cider  vinegar,  mustard,  salt 
aud  pepper  passed  around.  Lemons  are  cut  in  pieces  about 
one-eighth  large,  lengthwise,  with  the  skins  left  on,  so  that 
those  who  like  can  squeeze  the  juice  out  easily. 

RAW  OYSTERS. 

The  following  is  a  handsome  way  to  serve  raw  oysters  : 
Take  a  nice  clear  square  piece  of  ice,  about  ten  pounds,  and 
with  hot  flat  irons  melt  out  a  deep  dish  in  the  middle  of  the 
ice,  leaving  an  edge  about  one  inch  wide  all  around  to  keep 
in  the  oysters,  it  is  not  at  all  necessary  to  keep  the  inside 
edge  straight  or  square,  for  the  more  jagged  it  is  the  prettier 
it  will  look;  while  doing  it  I  kee]>  two  or  three  irons  heating 
on  the  stove.  Have  a  large  platter  covered  with  a  napkin, 
and  set  the  block  of  ice  in  it;  (the  base  may  be  decorated 
with  i)ar8ley  or  celery  tops  at  will,)  then  i)ut  in  your  oysters 
and  they  will  get  just  cold  enough  to  be  nice.  It  must  not 
be  fixed  too  long  before  serving.  The  platter  will  catch  all 
the  water  that  melts  from  the  ice. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Eichards. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Wipe  dry  one  can  of  oysters  ;  beat  up  two  eggs;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt;  dip  in  the  oysters,  and  roll  them  in 
cracker  flour;  have  hot  lard  in  a  pan,  and  fry  them  quickly 
in  it.  Mary  Colburt. 


0Y8TDBS.  39 


FRIEI>  OYSTERS. 

Use  for  frying  the  largest  oysters.  Drain  from  them  all 
the  juice;  take  some  soda  crackers  and  roll  them  with  the 
rolling  pin  on  the  bread  board  or  table;  when  fine,  season 
with  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper ;  have  ready  several  beaten 
eggs;  dip  the  oyster  first  in  the  egg  then  roll  in  the  fine 
crumbs  until  covered  thick ;  have  ready  in  your  frying  pan 
some  hot  lard  or  butter ;  drop  one  oyster  in  first  to  see  if  hot 
enough ;  fry  quickly  and  turn  when  brown  and  don't  let 
them  remain  in  the  fat  one  instant  after  done.  Serve  dry 
on  a  warm  dish. 

FRICASSEED  OYSTERS. 

Put  two  cans  of  oysters  in  a  stew  pan  and  let  them  come 
to  a  boil ;  then  strain  them  out  and  lay  them  on  a  dish ;  have 
ready  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  two  of  butter,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper ;  stir  well  together,  and  pour  in  the  liquor  and 
let  it  boil  for  a  few  moments,  stirring  carefully;  then  put  in 
the  oysters,  and  when  come  to  a  boil  pour  over  buttered 
toast.  Mrs.  Frank  Filley. 

STEWED  OYSTERS. 

To  half  a  can  of  fresh  oysters  poured  into  a  stew  pan, 
add  about  an  ounce  of  butter ;  half  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
previously  stirred  with  a  small  quantity  of  milk ;  when 
nearly  to  the  boiling  point,  add  milk  to  taste  and  boil  for  two 
minutes.  Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

SCALIiOPED  OYSTERS. 

One  can  of  oysters;  one-half  dozen  soda  crackers,  rolled 
fine;  fill  the  dish  with  successive  layers  of  crackers  and 
oysters;  seasoning  the  oysters  with  jjepper,  salt,  and  little 
pieces  of  butter;  pour  the  liquid  over  the  top.  Bake  in 
quick  oven  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mary  Colburt. 


30  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


SCAIiliOPED  OYSTERS. 

Put  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  over  the  fire,  let  them 
come  to  a  boil  over  a  slow  fire,  then  lay  the  oysters  in  a 
buttered  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  cracker  crumbs,  a  little 
butter  and  pepper;  put  cracker  crumbs  on  top  and  brown 
them  in  the  oven ;  take  care  not  to  let  them  cook  long  enough 
to  dry,  and  not  have  the  layers  of  crackers  too  thick. 

OYSTERS  OX  TOAST. 

Take  a  can  of  select  oysters  ;  drain  off  the  liquor  through 
a  cullender.  Take  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  pint  of  cream, 
or  one  quart  of  cream ;  put  it  into  a  sauce  pan,  and  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch, 
previously  wet  in  cold  water;  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  eg,g^ 
and  salt  and  pepper.  When  this  boils,  add  the  oysters, 
cooking  them  only  long  enough  to  make  the  lips  curl. 
Toast  enough  bread,  cutting  off  the  crust,  to  fill  an  ordinary 
size  vegetable  dish.  When  all  is  done,  put  into  the  dish 
first  a  layer  of  toast  and  then  a  layer  of  oysters. 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Chapman. 

STEWED  OYSTERS. 

Open  your  cans  and  drain  the  juice  from  the  oysters; 
mix  with  the  juice  a  little  hot  water;  add  salt  and  pepper 
and  put  in  a  stew  pan  on  the  fire;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil 
add  more  than  a  cup  full  of  cream  or  milk.  Let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  being  careful  not  to  burn,  then  add  the  oysters  and 
two  spoonfuls  of  butter  well  stirred  in ;  let  them  boil  five 
minutes,  no  longer ;  serve  in  a  hot  tureen.  Have  oyster 
crackers  to  eat  with  them. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Drain  the  juice  from  a  can  or  quart  of  oysters ;  put  on 
the  stove  and  to  it  add  one-half  pint  of  water,  one  large 
cracker  rolled  very  tine ;  pepper,  salt  and  a  good  bit  of  but- 
ter; when  the  juice  is  scalded  drop  in  the  oysters  and  cook 
until  the  lii)S  curl,  when  they  are  done. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Richards. 


0Y8TUR8.  31 


OYSTER  SOUP. 

Take  one  quart  of  oysters  and  separate  them  from  the 
liquor ;  wash  them  thoroughly  in  a  pint  of  water.  Strain  the 
liquor,  add  one  pint  of  milk,  some  mace,  nutmeg  and  pepper, 
with  three  crackers  pounded  fine ;  add  one-fourth  pound  of 
butter;  boil  all  together  about  five  minutes;  take  it  oft'  the 
fire.  When  about  to  serve  up  the  soup,  put  in  the  oysters 
and  let  it  boil  one  minute,  and  the  soup  will  be  ready  for  the 
table.  For  each  quart  of  oysters  a  pint  of  milk  must  be  ad- 
ded and  every  other  ingredient  in  proportion.  Three  pints 
of  oysters  are  sufiicient  for  eight  persons. 

Mrs.  T.  T.  Eichards. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

Have  your  oysters  cooked  as  for  stewed  oyters,  only  add 
a  little  more  thickening  of  craker  crumbs  and  the  yolks  of 
two  or  three  eggs  beaten  up  very  light.  Line  a  deep  dish 
with  a  rich  pie  paste  and  fill  it  with  white  paper,  napkin  or 
anything  that  will  hold  up  the  top  of  the  pie;  put  on  the 
cover  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  a  light  brown.  When  done 
take  off  the  lid;  take  out  the  white  ijaper  or  napkin  and 
pour  in  the  half  stewed  oysters ;  set  back  in  the  oven  a  few 
moments  and  serve  hot.  Oyster  patties  are  made  in  the 
same  manner  only  the  crust  is  baked  in  small  tin  patty-pans 
which  come  for  that  i^urpose,  and  they  can  have  covers  or 
not  just  as  you  choose,  they  look  equally  well  without;  some 
like  a  little  nutmeg  grated  over  them,  and  some  a  little  lemon 
juice  squeezd  in. 

PICKLE  OYSTERS. 

Fish  out  the  oysters  with  a  fork ;  put  them  on  to  stew 
with  salt  to  season  them ;  pour  them  in  a  cullender  to  drain ; 
then  make  a  strong  salt  and  water  to  wash  them  in ;  after 
being  washed  perfectly  clean,  put  them  in  a  stone  jar. 
Strain  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  stewed  through  a  cloth  ; 
add  spices,  about  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  mace, 
allspice,  cloves  and  a  little  ginger;  put  it  on  the  fire  and 


32  MY  MO  TREE'S  COOK  BOOK. 

boil  until  the  liquor  is  well  flavored  ;  then  when  about  milk- 
warm  pour  to  the  oysters  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours ; 
then  add  vinegar  to  your  taste.  This  quantity  of  spice  is 
for  a  gallon. 


ME  AT  IS.  33 


MEATS. 


TIME  FOR  COOKING  SUNDRIES. 

TIME    GIVEN    TO   BOASTING   ALL    KINDS   OF   MEAT   IS   A   QUARTER 

OF     AN      HOUR    TO    A    POUND,    AND   THE 

SAME   FOR   BOILING. 


BOII.ED  MEATS. 

Fresh  meats  should  always  be  cooked  in  boiling  water 
and  kept  constantly  boiling,  if  not,  the  meat  will  soak  up 
the  water.  If  more  water  is  needed  be  careful  that  it  is 
boiling  water  ;  remove  the  scum  when  it  first  begins  to  boil ; 
allow  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound  of  fresh  meat.  Salt 
meats  should  be  boiled  in  cold  water,  allowing  twenty-four 
minutes  to  every  pound.  The  more  gently  meat  boils  the 
more  tender  it  is. 

ROAST   BEEF. 

The  best  cuts  are  the  tenderloin,  and  first  and  second  rib 
cuts.  Sprinkle  the  roast  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge 
with  a  little  flour;  pour  a  little  water  in  the  pan  to  be  used 
for  basting;  allow  one  quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound  for 
rare  meat ;  longer  if  to  be  well  done.  When  the  meat  is 
done  remove  to  a  hot  platter,  and  then  pour  oft"  the  fat  and 
thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  that  has  been  first  rubbed  to  a 
smooth  paste  in  a  little  water ;  season  it  with  salt  and  pep- 
per if  necessary.  Beef  is  better  in  winter  when  kept  from 
two  to  four  weeks. 

BEEF   STEAK. 

A  porter  house  steak  one  inch  thick  is  considered  the 
best  cut  for  a  steak,  the  next  best  is  a  sirloin.     Trim  them 
3 


34  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


nicely;  many  persous  prefer  their  steaks  well  pouuded; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper ;  lay  it  on  the  gridiron ;  put 
over  clear  hot  coals,  turning  over  it  a  pan  in  order  to  keep 
the  steam  in ;  turn  it  frequently,  but  be  careful  not  to  stick 
the  fork  in  to  let  the  juice  escape.  As  soon  as  the  steak  is 
done  put  it  on  a  warm  plate  with  a  lump  of  butter,  press  the 
steak  with  a  knife  on  both  sides  so  as  to  extract  the  juice. 

Mrs.  C . 

YORKSHIRE  PIDDIXG. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  I  generallj'  put  in  a  very  little  of 
soda.     To  be  cooked  in  the  gravy  of  roast  beef. 

Put  the  pudding  into  the  oven  and  bake  for  an  hour, 
then  for  another  half  hour  place  it  under  the  meat  to  catch 
a  little  of  the  gravy  that  flows  from  it.  Cut  the  pudding 
into  small  square  pieces,  put  them  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 
If  the  meat  is  baked  the  pudding  may  at  once  be  placed 
under  it  resting  the  former  on  a  small  three-cornered  stand. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Flintham. 

FII.I.ET   OF   VEAL. 

Take  six  pounds  of  the  leg  of  veal ;  have  the  bone  taken 
out.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  gashes  through  the  thick 
part  of  the  meat.  Make  a  dressing  of  chopped  raw  salt 
pork,  pepper,  sweet  herbs  and  bread  crumbs,  or  use 
butter  instead  of  pork ;  fill  in  the  gashes  and  the  hole  from 
which  the  bone  was  taken ;  sew  up,  and  tie  tightly  in  a 
round  roll.  Put  into  a  pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  baste  it 
thoroughly,  and  bake  for  two  hours. 

ROAIST   VEAL. 

The  loin  is  the  best  for  roasting.  Wash  the  j)iece  to  be 
roasted  in  cold  water,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over 
it ;  put  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pan,  and  baste  often  with  the 
drippings.     Veal  should  be  cooked  very  thoroughly. 


MEATS.  35 


FORCE  MEAT  BAI.I.S. 

Half  a  pound  of  veal,  half  a  pound  of  suet  chopped  fine, 
a  few  sweet  herbs  and  parsley  cut  tine,  a  little  pounded 
mace  and  a  small  nutmeg,  a  little  lemon  peel  grated,  pepper 
and  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  mix  all  of  them  well 
together,  then  roll  them  into  small  round  balls,  roll  them  in 
flour  and  fry  them  brown.  If  they  are  for  anything  white, 
put  a  little  water  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  the  water  boils 
put  them  in  and  let  them  boil  for  a  few  minutes. 

Mrs.  Sam'l  Teeat. 


TO   BOIL.    A   LEG   OF   VEAL. 

Put  the  meat  in  boiling  water,  with  a  few  slices  of  pork 
in  it.  When  done  make  a  gravy  of  drawn  butter.  Time  for 
cooking  two  to  three  hours. 


VEAL  CUTLET. 

The  nicest  cutlets  are  from  the  round ;  about  half  an 
inch  thick ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  dip  into  beaten 
egg,  then  in  flour.  Put  into  a  skillet  with  hot  lard,  and  fry 
a  nice  brown.  When  done,  take  out,  make  a  gravy  with  a 
little  flour  and  water. 


HAIJXCH   OF   VENISON. 

Take  the  venison,  wash  and  dry  well;  butter  a  sheet  of 
white  paper,  and  cover  it  over  the  venison  ;  then  cover  with 
two  or  three  more  thicknesses  of  strong  paper,  tied  on  with 
strong  twine;  put  into  the  pan,  and  as  soon  as  in  the 
oven  baste  the  paper  well  and  constantly  to  keep  from 
burning;  about  thirty  minutes  before  being  done,  which 
can  be  told  by  running  a  skewer  in,  and  if  tender,  'tis  done ; 
remove  the  papers,  and  dredge  the  meat  with  flour  and 
baste  with  butter,  until  a  nice  brown  color.  Must  be  served 
on  very  hot  plates,  and  currant  jelly  passed  around. 


36  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


VE^ISOlf  STEAKS. 

Lay  the  steak  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear,  hot  fire;  turn 
quickly;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter; 
generally  liked  quite  rare. 

TO   CORX   BEEF. 

To  fifty  pounds  of  meat,  ten  pounds  coarse  salt,  two 
pounds  brown  sugar,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre ;  rub  the  meat 
well  with  the  mixture,  and  add  water  enough  to  corn  the 
meat.  Mrs.  Cornelia  Beer. 

CORX   BEEF. 

To  fifty  pounds  beef,  three  and  a  half  gallons  water,  ten 
pounds  fine  salt,  one  and  a  half  pounds  brown  sugar, 
one  ounce  saltpetre;  rub  into  the  beef  a  little  salt  and  let  it 
stand  a  few  days  until  the  blood  is  drawn  out ;  move  the 
blood  away ;  pack  the  beef  in  a  cask ;  scald  the  brine,  skim, 
and  when  cold  pour  over  the  beef.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in 
ten  days  or  a  fortnight.  Mrs.  Rhodes. 

BOILED   CORX   BEEF. 

Take  either  the  blade  or  round  of  beef,  let  your  butcher 
take  out  all  the  bones  and  roll  it,  tie  it  round  with  broad 
strong  tape;  put  it  into  a  large  pot;  cover  it  well  with  cold 
water;  carefully  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises;  when  no 
more  appears,  keep  the  pot  closely  covered;  let  it  boil 
slowly.  Allow  three  hours  and  a  half  to  a  piece  weighing 
about  twelve  pounds ;  turn  the  meat  twice  in  the  pot  while 
it  is  boiling.  When  done  it  is  very  nice  to  press  it  by 
putting  it  in  a  stone  crock,  putting  a  plate  on  top  with  a 
heavy  weight ;  let  it  stand  until  cold. 

BOILED   S^HOKED   TONGUE. 

Soak  over  night  in  cold  water;  in  the  morning  put  on  to 
boil  in  cold  water,  cooking  slowly  three  or  four  hours. 
When  done  skin  it  and  moisten  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg) 
roll  it  in  bread  crumbs ;  place  in  the  oven  until  light  brown. 


MEATS.  37 


Garnish  the  dish  with  parsley  or  celery,  and  serve  hot.  To 
be  eaten  with  boiled  turkey;  or  when  the  tongue  is  boiled, 
skin  while  hot,  and  when  cold  cut  in  thin  slices  and  place 
neatly  on  a  platter.  Mrs.  Lashells. 


To  boil  mutton,  put  it  in  cold  water ;  add  a  little  salt ; 
skim  well.  A  leg  weighing  six  or  eight  pounds  will  boil  in 
two  hours.  Serve  with  a  gravy  made  of  drawn  butter, 
season  with  capers  or  mint. 


€OI.l>    SADDI.E    OF   UlTTOl^. 

ENGLISH  MODE  OF  DRESSING. 

Time,  eleven  minutes.  Cold  saddle  of  mutton;  one 
spoonful  of  chopped  onions;  one  ounce  of  butter;  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour;  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  salt 
mixed;  a  little  cayenne;  half  a  pint  of  broth;  one  bay  leaf; 
two  eggs ;  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  mashed  potatoes.  Cut 
out  all  the  meat  remaining  on  a  cold  saddle  of  mutton  close 
to  the  bone,  leaving  an  edge  of  about  an  inch  and  a  half 
wide  outside ;  chop  the  meat  small  with  a  little  of  the  fat. 
Put  a  dessertspoonful  of  chopped  onions  into  a  stew  pan 
with  a  little  butter,  fry  them  for  one  minute ;  add  the  meat, 
sprinkle  over  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  season  it  rather 
high  ;  moisten  it  with  half  a  pint  of  broth,  and  put  a  bay  leaf 
in  the  gravy;  stew  the  whole  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  stir  it  till  it  is  rather  thick. 
Mash  two  pounds  of  potatoes  very  stiffly,  so  that  they  will 
form  a  paste;  roll  them  out;  form  an  edging  with  them 
round  the  saddle  of  mutton  ;  fill  the  empty  space  in  the 
joint  with  the  mince.  If  you  have  not  meat  enough  to  fill 
up  the  hollow,  add  any  minced  cold  remains  of  other 
joints,  provided  they  are  mutton ;  egg  and  bread  crumb  the 
saddle  all  over ;  put  it  in  rather  a  hot  oven  to  brown. 
Serve  with  Espagnole  sauce. 


38  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


BOILEID   liAMB. 

Take  a  round  of  lamb,  boil  two  or  three  hours  in  water 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  dressing  of  egg 
sauce,  with  chopped  parsley.  Serve  with  currant  jelly. 
Side  dishes  with  boiled  lamb  are  asparagus  or  peas, 
potatoes  and  lettuce.  Mrs.  E.  K.  L. 

BOAST   I.AMEB. 

The  fore  and  hind  quarters  of  lamb  are  used  for  roasting. 
Sprinkle  it  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  flour; 
put  it  in  the  pan  with  a  little  water;  baste  it  frequently. 
Lamb  must  be  thoroughly  cooked.  It  is  very  nice  to  make 
a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  with  a 
very  little  sage  or  thyme ;  lay  this  on  the  ribs,  covering 
with  the  flap,  and  sew  firmly,  to  keep  it  in  its  place. 


BOAST  I.OIX   OF   POBK. 

Score  the  skin  in  narrow  strips;  rub  it  all  over  with 
powdered  sage  leaves,  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  a 
dressing  of  minced  onions  and  sage,  bread  crumbs  and  the 
yolk  of  one  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Make  deep  incisions 
between  the  ribs,  and  till  them  with  the  dressing.  You  may 
roast  in  the  same  way  a  shoulder,  spare  rib,  or  chine  of 
pork,  seasoning  it  with  sage  and  onion.  Have  ready  some 
apple  sauce  to  eat  with  the  pork. 

SPABE    BIB   OF    POBK    BOASTED. 

Joint  it  down  the  middle,  and  sprinkle  with  fine  sage  and 
salt;  baste  and  flour  well.     Serve  with  apple  sauce. 

SAFSAGE. 

Four  and  one-half  ounces  salt;  one  ounce  of  sage;  one 
ounce  pepper;  ten  pounds  of  meat. 

Mrs.  W.  Maurice. 


MI]  ATS.  39 


SAUSAGE    MEAT. 

Two  pounds  fresh,  lean  pork,  or  beef,  raw;  one  pound 
fat  salt  pork;  three  teaspoonfuls  of  pepper ;  nine  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  sage.  Chop  very  fine ;  mix  thoroughly ;  roll  into 
small  flat  cakes,  and  fry ;  but  do  not  put  any  fat  in  the  pan. 

BOIIiED   HAM. 

Wash  a  ham  well  in  soap  suds  and  rinse  in  clean  water: 
let  it  soak  over  night;  in  the  morning  put  it  on  to  boil  in 
cold  water,  letting  it  simmer  an  hour,  then  boil  slowly  for 
three  or  four  hours ;  when  done  take  it  out  and  remove  the 
skin  and  place  it  in  the  oven  a  short  time.  If  you  wish  it 
warm  for  dinner  spread  with  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  a 
little  sage  and  return  to  oven  to  brown ;  stick  into  it  some 
whole  cloves  and  garnish  the  dish  with  pastry  or  celery. 

BAKED  HAM. 

Cover  the  ham  with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water;  while 
cooking  baste  it  with  either  cider,  rhine  or  sherry  wine 
diluted  with  water ;  when  done  remove  the  i>aste  and  skin 
from  the  ham;  then  sprinkle  with  rolled  cracker  and 
return  to  the  oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

BAKED  HAMS. 

Soak  the  ham  for  an  hour  in  clear  water  and  wipe  it  dry ; 
next  spread  it  all  over  with  tbiu  batter,  and  then  put  it  into 
a  deep  dish  with  sticks  under  it  to  keep  it  out  of  the  gravy; 
when  it  is  fully  done,  take  oft'  the  skin  and  batter  crushed 
upon  the  flesh  side,  and  set  it  away  to  cool. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

TO   BROIL    HAM. 

Cut  the  ham  in  thin  slices ;  soak  them  in  hot  water  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes;  dry  them  in  a  cloth  and  lay  them  over  a  hot 
gridiron  and  broil  a  few  minutes.  Butter  and  season  with  a 
little  pepper.  Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 


40  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


POTTED  BEEF. 

Take  three  pounds  of  lean  beef,  put  it  on  to  boil  covered 
with  water;  let  it  simmer  until  perfectly  tender,  when  it  will 
be  easily  chopped:  chop  it  in  a  wooden  bowl ;  then  pound  it 
in  a  marble  mortar  or  bowl,  adding  gradually  the  liquor  in 
which  the  meat  was  boiled ;  some  nice  marrow  from  the  beef 
bones  should  be  added  before  the  meat  is  done,  but  if  you 
have  no  marrow  add  a  little  melted  butter  as  you  pound. 
Season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  with  a  little  cloves, 
allspice  and  grated  nutmeg  may  be  added.  When  finely 
pounded  put  it  in  small  jars,  press  it  down,  and  the  next  day 
cover  it  with  melted  butter  which  will  preserve  it  much 
longer  than  if  left  open.  Veal  maj'  be  done  in  the  same 
way,  omitting  spices  except  mace. 

BEEF  A  I. A  MODE. 

Take  a  round  of  fresh  beef  and  beat  it  well  to  make  it 
tender.  Rub  it  all  over  with  salt  and  pepper,  lard  it  on 
both  sides  with  bacon ;  put  a  calf's  foot,  a  few  onions,  a 
carrot  cut  in  pieces,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  cut  small,  one 
or  two  laurel  leaves,  some  cloves  and  a  beaten  nutmeg  in  the 
pan.  Pour  in  a  half  a  pint  of  red  wine  and  a  half  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  a  spoonful  of  brandy.  Let  it  stew  slowly  six 
hours ;  take  it  out  and  strain  the  gravy ;  pour  it  on  the  meat 
and  serve.  Venison  is  very  nice  done  in  the  same  way  ;  both 
are  better  prepared  the  night  before. 

SPICED  BEEF. 

Purchase  of  your  butcher  a  round  of  beef  of  twelve  or 
sixteen  pounds  weight;  let  it  lay  in  salt  two  hours;  take  it 
out;  wash  clean;  rub  with  salt  and  saltpetre  until  very  red; 
then  take  a  tablespoonful  each  of  allspice,  mace  and  black 
pepper;  mix  them  with  the  marrow  which  comes  out  of  the 
bone;  let  it  lay  nine  days  in  this  mixture,  turning  and 
rubbing  it  every  day  ;  then  tie  it  closely  in  a  cloth  and  steam 
it  by  the  following  process.  Put  your  vessel  for  cooking  it 
over  the  fire  with  a  quart  of  water;  place  some  sticks  in  the 


MEATS.  41 

vessel  and  lay  your  meat  upon  it ;  renew  the  water  whenever 
it  evaporates.  Steam  three  hours  or  until  you  can  put  a 
fork  through  it.  Tbis  dish  is  highly  esteemed  in  the  south 
for  lunches.     To  be  eaten  cold.  Mrs.  Wells. 

HANH. 

Take  cold  beef  of  any  kind;  chop  fine;  then  take  about 
one-third  mashed  potatoes;  season  with  salt  and  ])epper; 
very  little  water.  It  is  also  very  nice  to  leave  out  the 
potatoes ;  have  some  slices  of  bread  toasted,  laid  on  the 
platter,  and  pour  the  meat  on  the  toast. 

MEAT  PIE. 

Cut  up  meat  in  slices ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  onion  and 
parsley ;  cover  with  tomatoes  and  bread  crumbs ;  butter  on 
top. 

TO    WARM    COLD    MEATS. 

Chop  the  meat  fine;  add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  onion  and 
tomato  catsup;  fill  a  baking  dish  one-third  full,  cover  it 
over  with  boiled  potatoes  mashed  with  milk;  lay  bits  of 
butter  on  top,  and  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

MYSTERY. 

Take  any  kind  of  cold  meat  chopped  fine,  with  cold  ham 
or  salt  pork ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  in  two 
eggs  and  a  little  butter;  mix  this  with  rusk  crumbs,  and  bake 
like  pudding  or  put  in  a  skillet  and  warm  like  hash,  or  put 
into  balls,  flatten  and  fry  like  sausages. 

BEEF    OMELET. 

Two  pounds  raw  beef  chopped  fine ;  one  egg  well  beaten, 
two  crackers  pounded  fine ;  piece  of  butter  size  of  one-half 
an  egg  melted.  Pepper,  salt  and  sage  to  taste;  mix  well 
together  with  a  little  flour  on  kneading  board.'  Bake  one 
hour  in  pan  with  a  little  water;  baste  often;  slice  when  cold. 


42  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


FRI£D  BEEF   STEAK   or   LAMB   CHOPS. 

Pound  and  sprinkle  well  with  flour;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  lay  in  a  frying  pan  with  hot  lard  or  butter;  turn 
frequently  until  done.  Mrs.  G.  R.  W. 

BEEF   STEAK   SHOTHERED   I]¥   OIVIOXS. 

Slice  your  onions ;  lay  them  in  the  skillet ;  cover  with 
pieces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  put  in  your  steak,  then 
another  layer  of  onions;  cover  tight;  cook  slowly  two  hours. 

BEEF    PIE. 

Take  small  pieces  of  beef,  put  them  in  a  pot  with  water 
enough  to  cover;  boil  slowly  two  hours,  keeping  tiglitlj^ 
covered.  When  half  done  have  some  raw  potatoes  sliced 
very  thin,  and  a  few  thin  pieces  of  salt  pork.  Line  the  sides 
of  your  dish  with  a  plain  pie  crust;  putting  an  inverted  tea- 
cup in  the  middle  to  absorb  the  juice,  then  fill  round  the 
dish  with  a  layer  of  meat;  then  potatoes  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  cloves,  a  few  sliced  onions  if  liked,  and  a  few  pieces 
of  pork;  so  on  until  your  dish  is  full;  pour  in  as  much  of  the 
liquor  the  meat  was  boiled  in  as  will  almost  fill  the  dish; 
j>ut  an  upper  crust  on,  making  a  slit  in  the  middle  and  pick- 
ing it  with  a  fork,  then  put  it  in  the  oven  to  bake.  Always 
in  making  meat  pies  of  any  kind  be  very  particular  and  cut 
the  slit  in  the  upper  crust,  in  order  to  let  the  gas  and  steam 
escape  while  cooking.  Veal  or  mutton  cooked  in  same 
manner  is  very  nice.  Mrs.  S.  T.  Glover. 

FRIZZLED    BEEF. 

Chip  dried  beef;  put  in  a  pan  with  some  hot  water;  let  it 
come  to  a  boil ;  pour  that  water  off;  add  a  little  milk  thick- 
ened with  a  very  little  flour,  a  lump  of  butter  and  a  little 
pepper,  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;   serve  hot. 

MO<K    1>II€K. 

Take  a  flank  steak ;  make  a  dressing  the  same  as  for 
ducks ;  spread  it  on  the  §teak;  then  roll  and  tie  tight  with  a 


mi: ATS.  43 

string  to  keep  the  roll  in  shape ;  lay  it  in  a  pan  with  a  little 
water;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt;  put  in  the  oven  to 
bake.  Mrs.  T.  P.  Saunders. 

SAVORY   BEEF. 

Take  a  shin  of  beef  from  the  hind  quarter ;  saw  it  into 
four  pieces;  put  it  in  a  pot  and  boil  until  the  meat  and 
gristle  drop  from  the  bones;  chop  the  meat  very  fine;  put 
it  into  a  dish  or  jar  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  cloves  and 
sage  to  your  taste;  pour  in  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was 
boiled  and  place  away  to  harden.     Cut  in  slices  and  eat  cold. 

Mrs.  Brock. 

BROIIiED   ailJTTO^   CHOPS. 

Take  chops  or  steaks  from  a  loin  of  mutton ;  beat  them 
to  make  them  tender,  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  put  them 
on  a  gridiron  hot  over  a  bed  of  clear  bright  coals ;  turn  them 
frequently;  when  done  put  them  into  a  warm  dish  and 
butter  them.  When  the  chops  have  been  turned  for  the 
last  time  you  may  strew  over  them  some  minced  onion 
moistened  with  boiling  water;  season  with  pepper.  Some 
like  them  flavored  with  mushroom  catsup. 

Another  way  of  dressing  mutton  cliops  is,  after  trimming 
nicely  and  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt,  lay  them  for  a 
while  in  melted  butter;  when  they  have  imbibed  a  sufiScient 
quantity  take  them  out;  cover  all  over  with  grated  bread 
crumbs ;  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire  and  see  that  the  bread 
does  not  burn. 

IRISH    STEW. 

Take  mutton  chops,  cover  well  with  water ;  let  come  to  a 
boil ;  pour  off  this  and  add  more  water.  Take  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  teacup 
of  milk  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  also  a  few  potatoes,  a 
small  onion' or  two,  if  liked.  Boil  all  until  the  potatoes  are 
done. 


44  MY  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 


I.IYER  DAUB. 

Take  a  liver  and  put  it  on  the  fire  in  cold  water,  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  vinegar;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  take  it 
out  and  lay  in  cold  water  to  clean  it.  Lard  it  with  fat  pork, 
and  dredge  tlour  over  it.  Take  one  good  tablespoonful  of 
lard  and  melt  it ;  have  some  onions  cut  very  fine,  and  fry  it 
in  the  lard ;  then  put  in  the  liver  and  let  it  fry  a  little  on 
both  sides;  then  add  sliced  carrots,  and  one  pint  of  broth, 
and  let  it  stew  about  an  hour ;  as  the  broth  boils  away  add 
more ;   pepper,  salt  and  spice  to  your  taste. 

Mrs.  Cornelia  Beer. 

CAtF   MVER. 

Cut  into  slices  one-half  inch  thick ;  place  in  a  pan  with 
hot  lard  enough  to  keep  from  sticking.  When  done  take  out ; 
make  a  gravy  by  adding  a  little  water,  flour  salt  and  pepper. 

CAIiF'S   HEAD. 

Put  in  the  head  to  soak  the  day  before;  split  it  open,  take 
out  the  brains,  pick  it  clean,  tie  it  in  a  bag;  take  out  the 
eyes,  put  the  head  and  the  lights  and  heart  on  to  boil,  and 
boil  two  hours;  the  liver  one  hour;  put  the  brains  on  to 
boil  with  the  liver,  put  in  a  little  butter,  pepper,  sage  and 
salt,  and  a  little  flour  if  not  thick  enough,  set  it  on  the  stove, 
and  lei  it  boil  up  a  little;  take  part  of  the  liver,  lights  and 
head,  chop  it  fine  ;  then  take  a  little  of  the  liquor  out  of  the 
pot,  and  put  in  butter,  pepper,  sage  and  salt,  and  a  little 
pounded  cracker,  and  heat  it  on  the  stove ;  take  up  the  head 
and  take  out  the  loose  bones,  and  the  best  of  the  liver,  lights 
and  heart  and  put  them  in  a  dish  for  the  table;  put  the  brain 
sauce  in  a  gravy  tureen,  and  the  hash  in  a  covered  dish. 
What*  is  left  after  dinner,  hash  it  all  together,  and  the 
next  day  warm  it  over,  putting  in  pepper,  salt,  sage  and  but- 
ter, the  same  as  the  day  before.  If  there  is  any  left  after 
this,  put  it  in  a  pan,  and  you  can  cut  in  slices  cold  for  break- 
fast, like  head-cheese.  Mrs.  N.  R.  Hill. 


MEATS.  45 


SAUSAGE    MEAT. 

Seven  pounds  of  lean  meat,  five  pounds  of  back  bone  fat, 
seven  tablespooufuls  of  sage,  five  of  salt  and  three  of 
pepper.  Mrs.  Frank  A.  Lane. 


TO   DRESS    BEEF    KII>^EY. 

Soak  a  fresh  kidney  in  cold  water  and  dry  in  a  cloth ;  cut 
it  in  pieces  and  chop  fine;  dust  it  with  flour;  put  some 
butter  into  a  saucepan  over  a  moderate  fire;  when  it  boils 
put  in  the  minced  kidney;  when  browned  in  the  butter, 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper;  pour  in  a  very 
little  boiling  water;  add  a  glass  of  champagne  or  other  wine, 
or  a  large  teaspoonful  of  mushroom  catsup  or  of  walnut 
pickle;  cover  the  pan  closely;  let  it  stew  until  the  kidney 
is  tender;  send  to  the  table  hot.  It  is  generally  eaten  for 
breakfast. 

FBIE1>'  KIDXEY. 

Lay  the  kidney  in  salt  and  water  half  an  hour ;  take  out 
and  cut  in  thin  slices ;  roll  a  few  oyster  crackers  very  fine; 
beat  an  egg  light ;  dip  the  kidney  in  the  egg.,  then  in  the 
cracker  ;  have  some  hot  lard  in  the  frying  pan ;  lay  the  kid- 
ney in  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  fine  cut  parsley; 
pour  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water ;  cook  until  a  fork 
can  be  run  through  easily ;  then  set  in  the  oven  and  brown 
nicely.  Miss  L.  D. 

STEWED  KIDXEY. 

Cut  the  kidney  in  small  pieces ;  cook  in  boiling  water  ten 
minutes  or  until  the  water  is  nearly  boiled  away;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  rub  together  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
butter  size  of  half  an  egg  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  or 
new  milk,  a  little  parsley  cut  fine  ;  boil  until  the  gravy  thick- 
ens and  pour  it  over  a  slice  or  two  of  toast. 

Miss  L.  D. 


46  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


TRIPE. 

Procure  from  your  butcher  a  tripe  ready  dressed  ;  soak  iu 
salt  and  water  twenty-four  hours  ;  cut  in  four  or  live  pieces  ; 
put  in  a  till  kettle  with  cold  water ;  let  it  simmer  three  or  four 
hours,  skimming  it  well ;  change  the  water  adding  a  handful 
of  salt ;  boil  five  or  six  hours  or  until  quite  tender,  try  it  with 
a  fork.  When  done  remove  from  the  kettle  ;  take  one  or  two 
of  the  best  pieces  ;  sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  cinna- 
mon and  mace;  roll  up  tight,  tie  with  a  strong  string;  lay 
away  to  get  cold;  cut  the  remainder  in  pieces  from  four 
to  six  inches  ;  place  them  in  a  stone  jar  with  pepper,  cinna- 
mon, mace  and  very  little  cloves  ;  pour  good  vinegar  over ; 
it  will  then  be  ready  for  use.  In  the  morning  slice  the  rolls 
half  an  inch  thick;  place  in  the  jar  with  the  other.  This 
can  be  eaten  cold.  Mrs.  Lashells. 

TRIPE    AXD   OYSTERS. 

Take  a  piece  of  tripe  after  it  has  been  boiled  and  cut  it 
in  small  pieces.  Put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  just  milk  enough 
to  cover  it  and  a  few  pieces  of  mace ;  let  it  boil  a  few  moments, 
then  put  in  your  oysters,  a  large  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  salt,  pepper  to  taste.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  longer ; 
send  it  to  the  table;  if  any  fat  rises  to  the  surface  skim  it  off. 

TO   FRY   TRIPE. 

Take  what  you  wish  to  use  out  of  the  vinegar;  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  or  flour;  season  if 
necessary;  fry  in  a  pan  in  butter  and  lard  until  a  nice 
brown  ;  make  the  gravy  with  flour  water ;  a  little  vinegar  or 
what  is  better,  some  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup. 

Mrs.  L. 

TRIPE    ANO   OYSTERS. 

Take  boiled  tripe,  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces;  put  it  in 
a  saucepan  with  just  milk  enough  to  cover  it  and  a  few  blades 
of  mace;  let  it  stew  about  five  minutes;  then  put  in  the 
oysters  ;  adding  a  large  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour;  salt 


MEATS.  47 

and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste;  let  it  stew  about  Ave  minutes 
longer.  Send  it  to  the  table  in  a  covered  disb,  tirst  skim- 
ming off  whatever  fat  may  float  on  the  surface. 

HAM   SANDWICHES. 

Chop  or  grate  fine  some  cold  boiled  ham ;  mix  with  a  lit- 
tle chopped  pickle,  or  juice  of  a  lemon ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
mustard,  and  a  little  pepper;  mix  these  together;  butter 
four  slices  of  bread  and  spread  the  dressed  ham  on  them ; 
place  the  slices  together.  The  chopped  pickle  can  be  omit- 
ted if  not  desired.  Mrs.  M.  E.  G. 

ENOIilSH  BEEF  AXD   POTATO  SANDWICH. 

EIGHT   OR   TEN  MINUTES. 

Some  slices  of  salt  beef;  yolks  of  eggs  ;  bread  crumbs ; 
some  mashed  potatoes.  Fry  some  slices  of  cold  salt  beef 
very  lightly,  when  done  spread  very  evenly  over  each  side  a 
thick  layer  of  mashed  potatoes,  press  it  over  them  with  the 
blade  of  a  knife,  and  then  cover  them  with  egg  and  bread 
crumbs ;  fry  them  in  boiling  fat  a  fine  brown ;  serve  very 
hot. 

HOW  TO  COOK   A   I.EG  OF   MIJTTOIV. 

Select  a  fat  juicy  joint;  salt  and  pepper  well;  let  it  lie 
two  or  three  days  if  the  weather  is  cold,  if  warm  twenty-four 
hours  in  the  ice  chest ;  then  wash  clean ;  boil  from  two  to 
three  hours,  according  to  the  size  and  age  of  the  mutton ; 
throw  in  a  pod  or  part  of  a  pod  of  red  pepper  while  boiling  ; 
when  sufficiently  boiled  put  the  joint  in  the  dripping  pan ; 
have  some  crumbs  of  bread  seasoned  with  a  little  sage ;  scar 
the  joint  slightly,  put  in  the  dressing  and  roast  until  brown, 
basting  it  well.     The  sage  is  optional  to  to  the  taste. 

Mrs.  T.  B.  Edgar. 

VEAI.   OMEI^ET. 

Three  pounds  raw  veal ;  four  slices  salt  pork  chopped 
fine ;  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  cream  or  milk,  four  pow- 


48  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


dered  crackers ;  season  with  sage  or  thyme;  one  teaspoonful 
pepper,  one  of  salt,  one-half  nutmeg;  form  into  a  loaf  and 
bake  two  or  three  hours  in  a  slow  oven ;  baste  with  butter 
and  water;  cut  in  very  thin  slices  for  the  table. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

BEEF    LOAF. 

Three  pounds  of  lean  beef;  three  eggs ;  six  Boston  crackers 
rolled ;  salt  and  pepper ;  a  little  cream  and  melted  butter ; 
cloves  and  nutmeg.     Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  loaf  for  an  hour. 

WEL.TON  VEAI.. 

Boil  four  eggs  hard,  slice  them  and  line  a  dish;  then  place 
a  layer  of  raw  veal,  cut  thin.  Mix  chopped  ham  with  one  egg 
and  sage  for  next  layer;  then  another  of  veal  and  so  on  till 
the  dish  is  full.  Cover  with  a  flat  cover;  put  weight  on  top 
to  press;  steam  four  hours.  To  be  eaten  cold  cut  in  thin 
slices. 

VEAI.   I.OAF. 

Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  the  finest  part  of  the  lean  and 
fat  of  a  leg  of  veal,  chopped  very  fine ;  three  common  sized 
crackers,  rolled  fine;  two  eggs;  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an 
egg;  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg; 
a  thick  slice  of  salt  pork,  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  together; 
bake  in  a  tin  bread  pan ;  put  bits  of  butter  and  grated  bread 
crumbs  over  it,  and  bake  two  hours.  Put  a  little  water  in 
another  pan,  and  set  this  in  it;  bake  slowly.,  To  be  eaten 
when  cold,  cut  in  thin  slices.  Mrs.  T.  T.  Richards. 

VEAL.   OMELET. 

Take  three  ])Ounds  of  veal  chopped  fine ;  three  eggs  well 
beaten ;  six  small  butter  crackers,  rolled  fine ;  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  pepper,  one  of  sage.  Mix  all  well  together ;  add  bits  of 
butter  to  the  taste ;  form  into  a  loaf  and  bake  two  hours, 
basting  often.  Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 


ME  A  T8.  49 


Mince  your  cold  roast  veal  in  a  choi^piug  bowl ;  leave  out 
the  stringy  part ;  put  into  the  frying  pan  a  teacupful  or 
more  of  milk  or  sweet  cream,  into  which  stir,  when  hot,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  tlour,  well  mixed  together;  then 
add  veal.  Heat  it  well  through;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  or 
tine  mace  over.  Delicious  for  breakfast ;  can  be  used  for 
veal  patties.  Mrs.  D.  Young. 

VEAI.  FRICANDEAIT. 

Take  a  small  fillet  without  a  bone,  lard  it  well  with  pork, 
))ntting  it  into  the  meat  where  there  is  no  skin;  butter  the 
chafing  dish  (some  people  lay  a  slice  or  two  of  bacon  in  the 
dish),  put  the  meat  in  larded  side  up,  place  therein  four  car- 
rots, four  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  thyme  or  marjoram, 
two  or  three  cloves,  two  glasses  of  water,  and  a  little  pej)- 
per.  If  the  piece  weigh  three  or  four  pounds,  it  must  stew 
for  three  hours  gently,  covered  close.  Before  serving  take 
out  the  carrots  and  onions,  baste  the  meat  well  with  the 
gravy,  take  ofl"  all  the  fat,  add  to  it  a  spoonful  of  brown 
riour  and  one  glass  of  wine,  stir  it  well  in  and  pour  it  over 
the  meat;  to  serve  it  add  to  the  gravy  either  tomato 
ketchup,  sorrel  or  spinach  as  you  choose. 

Mrs.  Sam'l  Treat. 

YEAI.  Of^lVES. 

Slice  as  large  pieces  as  you  can  get  from  a  leg  of  veal ; 
make  a  stutfing  of  grated  bread,  butter,  a  little  onion  minced, 
salt,  pepper,  and  spread  over  the  slices.  Beat  an  egg  and 
put  over  the  stutting.  Roll  each  slice  up  tightly,  and  tie 
with  a  thread;  stick  a  few  cloves  in  them;  grate  bread 
tiiickly  over  them  after  being  put  in  the  skillet,  with  butter 
and  onions  ciiopped  fine;  when  done  lay  them  on  a  dish  : 
make  your  gravy  and  pour  over  them:  take  the  threads  otf, 
and  garnish  witii  eggs,  boiled  hard,  and  serve.  To  be  cut  in 
slices.  Mrs.  U.  S.  Grant. 

4 


50  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


STEW  PIE  OF  VEAI.. 

Take  a  knuckle  of  veal  aud  cut  in  pieces;  when  the  water 
boilK  put  them  in  and  boil  it  for  a  half  or  three-quarters  of 
an  hour:  then  take  out  the  meat  and  place  on  a  dish  ;  season 
the  liquor  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt:  thickeu  with  tiour 
as  you  would  for  gravy;  have  your  biscuit  or  balls  very 
light  and  put  them  in  when  boiling;  lay  a  cloth  over  the 
kettle,  which  do  not  uncover  till  boiled;  time  for  cooking 
twenty  minutes.  J-  K-  A. 

SWEET    BREADS. 

Choose  large  white  sweet  breads;  i)ut  them  in  warm 
water  for  half  an  hour,  then  parboil  them  ;  when  cold  cut  in 
pieces  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick  ;  dip  in  yolk  of 
an  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  (some  add  spice,  lemon  peel 
and  sweet  herbs) ;  put  some  clean  drippings  in  a  frying  pan  ; 
when  hot  put  in  the  sweet  breads  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  For 
garnishing,  crisp  i>arsley,  and  for  sauce,  mushroom  catsup 
and  melted  butter  or  anchovy  sauce. 

STEUEI>   SWEET   BREADS. 

Soak  the  sweet  breads  in  warm  water  half  an  hour;  then 
boil  ten  minutes:  take  them  out :  put  them  in  cold  water  for 
a  few  moments,  then  lay  them  in  a  saucepan  and  simmer 
gently  for  rather  more  than  half  an  hour.  ])ish  them; 
thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  butter  and  tlour,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  one 
blade  pounded  mace,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  let  it  boil  a 
few  moments:  pour  over  the  sweet  breads. 

A    PIE    OF   SWEET   BREAD   ASfD    OYSTERS. 

Boil  the  sweet  breads  tender;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt;  make  a  gravy  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
adding  half  a  cup  of  cream,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Hour.  Line  the  bottom 
and  sides  of  a  dish  with  putt"  paste;  have  the  same  quantity 


MEATS.  51 

of  oysters  as  of  sweet  breads  ;  lay  the  oysters  in  first,  cover 
with  sweet  breads  and  fill  the  dish  with  gravy ;  place  the 
crust  on  top  and  bake. 

WEI.SII   RAREBIT. 

One  pound  cheese,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  cream,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  cayenne  and  black 
pepper,  little  salt  to  taste  ;  put  cheese  and  butter  into  the 
oven  until  it  melts,  then  stir  in  the  milk  and  eggs,  put  back 
into  the  oven  and  bake  like  custard  ;  let  it  get  quite  brown ; 
when  done  i>our  over  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  M.  Saunders. 

WELSH   R4REBIT. 

Cut  your  cheese  in  small  slips  if  soft,  if  hard  grate  Jt; 
have  ready  a  spirit  lamp ;  put  in  the  cheese  with  a  lump  of 
butter,  and  set  it  over  the  lamp ;  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
witii  half  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine,  and  as  much  ale  or  beer  : 
stir  the  cheese  and  butter  until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  add 
gradually  the  egg  and  wine;  keep  stirring  until  it  forms  a 
smooth  mass  ;  season  well  with  cayenne  pepper  and  grated 
nutmeg.     To  be  eaten  with  hot  toast. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

WEIiSH    RAREBIT. 

One  pound  of  new  cheese,  add  half  pint  of  water ;  stew 
over  a  hot  tire  till  melted ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed 
mustard,  one  teaspoonful  olive  oil,  a  little  cayenne  pepper; 
l)0ur  on  the  hot  toast  in  a  hot  covered  dish ;  serve  at  once. 

AsTOR  House. 

ECOXOMICAr   €ROQl  E TTES. 

If  you  have  veal  souj)  for  dinner,  take  the  meat  oil"  the 
bone  and  mince  it;  to  two  cups  of  minced  veal  put  two  cups 
of  stale  bread  soaked  in  water;  then  stpieeze  very  dry; 
mix  thoroughly  with  the  minced  veal;  have  a  calf's  brain 
boiled  soft  and  mashed ;  mix  with  the  rest,  then  season  with 


52  MY  MOTHER' l^  COOK  BOOK. 


salt,  pepper,  summer  savory,  sweet  marjoram,  a  little  butter 
or  cream,  yolk  of  an  egg,  tlie  grated  rind  of  one  and  juice  of 
two  lemons:  mould  in  shape  and  brown  in  a  skillet  with  hot 
lard.  For  those  who  like  it,  chopped  parsley  and  a  very 
little  chopped  onion  is  a  great  addition. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Richards. 

SWEET    BREAI>    CROQUETTES. 

Put  the  sweet  breads  to  soak  in  luke  warm  water  (to  draw 
out  the  blood),  then  boil  them  thoroughly,  mash  them  and 
cut  otf  the  stringy  ]»art :  prepare  as  much  again  bread 
crumbs;  season  with  salt,  pei)per,  summer  savory,  a  little 
butter,  mix  all  together,  then  mould  in  shape,  fry  in  lard 
and  a  little  l)utter  to  make  them  a  nice  brown. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Richards. 

SWEET    BKEA1>. 

Boil  it  half  an  hour,  then  throw  it  into  cold  water  to 
plump  out :  roll  it  in  eggs  and  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with 
salt  and  i)epper;  lay  them  in  a  pan,  a  lump  of  butter  on 
each,  an<l  bake  them.  A  w'wv  gravy  is  made  of  veal  stewed, 
seasoned  and  strained. 

SWEET    HREADS. 

Scald  them  in  salt  and  water,  and  take  out  the  stringy 
parts  :  then  i)ut  them  in  cold  water  for  a  few  moments  ;  dry 
them  in  a  towel,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  brown  in 
butter:  when  they  are  done,  take  them  on  a  dish,  i)our  into 
the  frying  i)an  a  large  cup  of  sweet  cream,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  little  green  parsley,  chopped  tine  :  dust  in  a 
very  little  tiour,  and  when  it  boils  up,  pour  it  over  the 
breads,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

HAM    TOAST. 

Boil  qimrter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham,  chop  tine  and  mix 
with  the  yolks  of  three  beaten  eggs  :  add  one-half  ounce  but- 
ter, two  tablespoonfuls  cream  and  a  little  pepper;  stir  over 


ME  A  T8.  53 

the  Are  until  it  thickens ;  cut  the  cruKt  ironi  some  nice  slices 
of  bread,  toast  tliem  and  turn  tlie  ham  over. 

Nantucket. 

TO    UNE    IP    BITN   OF    HAM. 

Out  ott'  all  the  fat,  and  min<'e  very  tine  ;  break  a  half 
dozen  fresh  eggs  into  a  ])an,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  a 
little  salt  and  i)epi)er,  and  i)ut  over  the  tire:  as  soon  as  the 
eggs  are  set  or  nearly  solid,  sjiread  one-half  thickly  with  the 
minced  ham  and  fold  the  other  over  it;  slip  it  carefully 
from  i>an  to  dish.     Garnish  with  parsley;  serve  hot. 

PICIS'    FEET    AX1>    EARS    SOUSEU. 

Having  cleaned  them  properly  and  removed  the  skin,  boil 
them  slowly  till  they  are  (piite  tender,  then  sjjlit  the  feet  and 
put  them  with  the  ears  into  salt  and  vinegar  Havored  with  a 
little  mace;  cover  the  Jar  closely  and  set  it  away.  When 
you  use  them,  dry  each  piece  well  with  a  cloth ;  dip  them 
tirst  in  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  then  in  l)read  crumbs,  and  fry 
them  nicely  in  butter  or  lard.  Or  they  may  be  eaten  cold 
out  of  the  vinegar.  If  you  intend  keeping  them  some  time, 
you  must  make  a  fresh  pi<^kle  for  them  every  other  day. 

PIGS'    FEET. 

Boil  them  until  they  are  done  thoroughly,  then  split  the 
claw,  and  fry  them  in  batter,  just  di])ped  into  the  batter. 

Batter:  one-half  ])int  of  milk,  one  egg,  little  salt;  tlour 
enough  to  make  it  a  little  thicker  than  tiapjacks;  fry  them  in 
hot  fat.  C.  G.  Hill. 


54  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 


After  roasting  your  meat  pour  olt"  the  (iripi)iug\s ;  if  too 
much  fat  pour  part  of  it  into  ajar  kept  for  that  purpose  ;  it 
will  be  found  good  for  frying;  mix  one  tablespoonful  of  tiour 
with  a  little  water ;  rub  it  smooth  ;  add  to  the  drippings  left 
in  the  pan;  as  it  browns  pour  boiling  water  on,  adding  more 
water  as  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time.  If  lumpy,  strain 
the  gravy.  Mutton  drippings  must  never  be  used  for  cook- 
ing. Gravies  for  poultry  are  made  the  same  as  for  roasting 
meats. 

DUAIVX   BITTER. 

Rub  two  teasi>oonfuls  of  tlour  into  a  (juarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  :  add  tive  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water;  set  it  into 
boiling  water  and  let  it  melt  and  heat  until  it  begins  to  sim- 
mer. Be  careful  not  to  have  the  tiour  in  lumps ;  if  it  is  to 
be  used  for  fish  i)ut  in  chopped  eggs  and  nasturtions  or 
capers.  If  used  with  boiled  fowl,  put  in  oysters  while  it  is 
simmering ;  let  them  heat  through. 

ANOTHER  WAY  OF  PREPARING  DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Make  three  teaspoonfuls  of  tlour  into  a  thin  batter; 
stir  it  into  a  teacup  of  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan;  let  it 
boil  five  minutes  ;  then  take  it  off  and  cut  up  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  into  pieces  and  put  in  and  keep  hot  until  it 
is  melted.  This  is  the  easiest  way;  if  it  is  for  very  rich 
cooking  add  more  butter. 

IVICE    VOR   GRAVY   OR    SOI  P. 

Take  butter  size  of  an  egg  ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar ; 
put  it  in  a  skillet;  stir  it  until  a  dark  brown;  then  dredge 
iu  tiour  and  use  it  to  darken  gravy  or  soup. 


OB  A  VIES  AND  iSA  UCES.  55 


WIXE    SAIK'E    FOR    MITTOX    OR   VKXISOX. 

Take  liali"  a  piut  of  the  liquor  in  wliicli  the  meat  was 
cooked;  wbeii  boiling',  put  in  pepper,  salt,  currant  jelly  and 
wine  to  your  taste :  add  a  teaspoonful  of  scorched  flour 
mixed  with  a  little  water. 

OYSTER    SAUCE. 

Take  a  pint  of  oyster  juice,  add  a  little  salt  and  pepi)er,  a 
stick  of  mace,  boil  it  tive  minutes,  then  add  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  tlour,  wet  up  in  half  a  teacup)  of  milk;  let  this  boil  two 
minutes,  then  put  in  the  oysters,  and  a  bit  of  butter  size  of 
an  egg;  in  two  minutes  take  them  up. 

CELERY    SilCE    FOR    BOII.EO    FOWLS. 

Take  four  or  five  celery  heads,  cut  u[)  all  but  the  green 
tops  into  small  pieces  :  boil  it  in  half  a  pint  of  water  till  ten- 
der. Mix  two  teaspoonfuls  of  tlour  with  a  little  milk,  and 
put  in  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg;  when  it 
boils  take  it  up. 

MIWT   SAUCE    FOR    ROAST    LAMB. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  green  mint,  one  tablespoon ful  of 
pounded  sugar,  and  a  (juarter  of  a  i)int  of  vinegar.  Pick 
and  wash  the  green  mint  very  clean;  chop  it  tine;  mix  the 
sugar  and  vinegar  in  a  sauce  tureen;  put  in  the  mint;  let  it 
stan<l. 

VENISON   GRAVY. 

Boil  the  rough  i)ieces  of  venison  with  a  little  mutton, 
beef,  or  any  other  kind  of  meat,  nearly  all  one  day  ;  then  let 
it  rest  quietly  over  night,  taking  off  the  fat  in  the  morning; 
then  thicken  it  with  scorched  flour;  add  spices  and  sugar  to 
taste,  with  as  much  wine  as  you  please. 

Mrh.  S.  S.  Bailf.y,  Boston, 


56  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


POULTRY. 


All  poultry  should  l)e  carefully  picked,  aud  haii-  singeil 
off  by  holdiug  the  bird  over  a  lighted  piece  of  paper.  Take 
care  in  removing-  that  the  gall  bag  and  the  gut  joining  the 
gizzard  are  not  broken.  Open  the  gizzard,  first  take  out  the 
conteut.s,  and  detach  tlie  gall  bladder  from  the  liver.  If 
poultry  it<  brought  from  market  frozen,  do  not  hasten  to  thaw 
it  out  before  it  is  wanted  for  use;  till  then,  put  it  in  a  vo\d 
place  and  let  it  remain  frozen.  When  you  thaw  it  use  only 
cold  water.  Any  frozen  poultry  or  meat  thawed  in  warm 
water  will  most  certainly  spoil.  Food  of  any  kind  which 
has  been  frozen  recjuires  a  much  longer  time  to  cook. 

ROAST  Tl  RKEY. 

Take  a  fine  large  turkey,  if  too  fat  take  part  of  it  out, 
singe  it  carefully ;  see  that  the  inside  and  craw  are  all  re- 
moved, saving  the  giblets  (neck,  heart  gizzard  and  liver)  for 
the  gravy.  After  it  is  thoroughly  cleaned,  wash  the  inside 
well,  wi])e  it  dry,  make  a  dressing  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  some  sweet  herbs  if  liked;  add  to  this 
a  hard  boiled  egg  chopped  fine.  It  may  all  be  moistened 
with  a  little  water  or  lemon  Juice,  and  some  good  white  wine. 
Stuff  the  turkey  well  with  the  dressing,  both  the  neck  aud 
the  body,  then  sew  it  up.  Cut  up  the  giblets ;  put  them  into 
a  small  sau('ei)an  with  very  little  water;  stew  them  while  tlie 
turkey  is  roasting:  add  a  ])iece  of  fresh  butter  dredged  with 
flour;  when  done  take  out  the  pieces  of  neck,  retaining  those 
of  the  heart,  liver  and  gizzard;  stir  into  the  gravy  after  it 
comes  from  the  fire,  the  yolk  of  a  beaten  egg;  skim  the  gravy 
in  the  dripping  i)an  ;  add  it  to  the  gravy  made  of  the  giblets. 

A  roast  turkey  may  be  stuffed  with  oysters,  or  with 
chestnuts  boiled,  peeled  an<l  mashed  with  butter.     If  with 


POULTRY.  57 


chestnuts,  thicken  the  gravy  with  whole  boiled  chestnuts. 
If  witb  oysters,  send  oyster  sauce  to  table  with  the  turkey. 
If  chestnuts  cannot  be  obtained,  any  roasted  poultry  is  good 
stuffed  with  well-boiled  sweet  potatoes  mashed  with  plenty 
of  butter  or  meat  drippings. 

BOII^SD  TURKEY. 

Prepare  and  stuff  the  turkey  as  for  roasting;  a  nice 
dressing  is  made  by  choi)ping  half  a  pint  of  oysters  and 
mixing  them  witli  bread  crumbs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
thyme  or  sweet  marjoram  ;  wet  with  milk  or  water;  sew  up 
the  turkey  in  a  thin  cloth,  tirst  dredging  the  inside  with 
flour;  put  it  in  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  a  spoonful  of  salt 
in  it;  skim  it  while  boiling;  if  very  large  will  take  from  two 
to  three  hours.  Serve  with  oyster  sauce  made  by  adding  to 
a  cupful  of  the  li«juor  the  turkey  was  boiled  in  the  same 
quantity  of  milk  and  eight  oysters  chopped  tine  ;  season  with 
minced  parsley;  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  rice  or  wheat  tlonr  wet 
with  cold  milk,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  up  once 
and  pour  into  a  tureen. 

ROAST   GOON£. 

A  goose  for  roasting  should  be  young,  tender  and  fat;  so 
tender  that  the  skin  can  be  easily  torn  by  a  pin ;  if  old,  no 
cooking  can  make  it  eatable.  Geese  are  not  good  for  boil- 
ing or  in  a  pie.  In  preparing  a  goose  for  cooking,  save  the 
giblets  for  the  gravy  :  after  the  goose  has  been  drawn,  singed 
well,  wiped  inside  and  out,  make  a  quantity  of  dressing;  for 
this  purpose  parboil  two  good  sized  onions  and  a  bunch  of 
green  sage;  chop  both  the  sage  and  onions,  seasoning  them 
with  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  half  as  much  black  pepper,  and  still 
less  cayenne  ;  add  a  hard  boiled  egg  tinely  minced.  If  your 
goose  is  large  take  two  chopped  eggs.  To  make  the  stuffing- 
very  mild,  add  a  haiulful  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  or  two  or 
three  juicy  chopi)ed  apples;  till  the  body  and  craw  with  the 
dressing;  secure  it  with  a  needle  and  thread  from  falling- 
out;  set  the  goose  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water;  keep 


58  MY  MOTHMR'8  COOK  BOOK. 


it  well  basted;  it  must  be  thoroughly  done  all  through.  It 
will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  to  roast, 
according  to  its  size.  The  gravy  for  roast  goose  may  be 
made  the  same  as  for  roast  turkey. 


ROAST    PHEASANTS,    PARTUIDOKS,    ETC. 

See  that  your  birds  are  thoroughly  cleaned ;  chop  some 
tine  raw  oysters,  omitting  the  hard  part ;  mix  with  salt  and 
nutmeg;  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  to  bind  the  other 
ingredients;  cut  some  very  thin  slices  of  pickled  pork 
and  cover  the  birds  with  them ;  then  wrap  them  closely  in 
sheets  of  white  paper  well  buttered;  put  them  in  a  baking 
pan  and  roast  by  a  quick  tire.  Send  them  to  tiie  table  with 
oyster  sauce.  Pies  may  be  made  of  any  of  these  birds  the 
same  as  a  pigeon  pie. 

ROAST    DUCK. 

Take  a  ))air  of  tine  fat  ducks;  put  them  for  a  few  minutes 
into  boiling  water  to  loosen  the  skin,  which  must  be  i)eeled 
entirely  oft"  in  order  to  be  nice  and  tender :  wash  them 
thoroughly  inside,  wipe  the  outside  all  over  with  a  dry 
cU)th,  till  the  l)ody  and  craw  with  a  seasoning  of  sage  and 
onions,  as  for  a  goose.  Roast  them  well;  baste  them  all  the 
time;  make  a  gravy  mixed  with  what  has  been  made  of  the 
necks,  livers,  hearts  and  gizzards  stewed  in  a  small  saucepan, 
with  a  lump  of  butter  dredged  with  Hour;  skim  the  fat  oft"; 
pour  over  the  ducks.  The  tishy  taste  wild  ducks  have  is 
entirely  destroyed  by  having  an  onion  dressing. 

BOILED   DrCK. 

Make  a  paste  of  half  a  i)ound  of  l)utter  to  a  poiind  of 
Hour;  put  into  the  inside  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  one  oi-  two 
sage  leaves  and  a  little  onion  tinely  chopped  ;  inclose  the 
duck  in  the  paste  with  a  little  jellied  gravy.  P.oil  it  in  a 
cloth;  serve  with  brown  gravy. 


POULTRY.  59 


C:HICKEXS. 

Whether  for  boiling  or  roasting"  should  be  pre])ared  and 
have  a  dressing  made  the  same  as  for  turkeys.  Six  spoonfuls 
of  rice  boiled  with  the  chi(!kens  will  make  them  look  white. 
If  the  water  is  cold  when  put  in,  they  will  be  less  liable  to 
break;  they  are  improved  by  boiling  a  little  salt  pork  with 
them.  Chickens  broiled  should  be  si>lit  down  the  back; 
inwards  taken  ont  and  then  thoroughly  washed;  broil  very 
slowly,  placing  the  bony  side  down  on  the  gridiron;  as  soon 
as  nicely  brown  turn  it  on  the  other  side.  Chickens  and  game 
of  all  kinds  may  be  prepared  the  same  as  for  broiling  by 
putting  them  in  a  baking  pan;  dredge  with  flour,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  water  enough  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing; baste  frequently. 

CHICKED   PIE. 

Cut  up  and  parboil  a  pair  of  chickens ;  season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  nutmeg ;  ])repare  your  dough  same  as  for  ))ie  crust ; 
line  the  sides  of  the  dish  with  the  dough;  put  an  inverted 
teacup  in  the  middle  of  the  dish  ;  fill  round  it  a  layer  of 
chicken,  a  layer  of  raw  potatoes  cut  very  thin,  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  few  thin  slices  of  pickled  pork;  add  as  much 
of  the  liquor  the  chickens  were  boiled  in  as  will  fill  the  dish. 
Then  cover  the  whole  with  a  lid  of  paste.  Important  to 
make  a  cross  slit  in  the  top  to  let  the  steam  escape;  bake 
the  pie  about  an  hour  or  more. 

QUAir  PIE. 

Take  a  tender  beefsteak,  cut  it  into  pieces,  say  one  or 
two  pounds,  and  lay  it  raw  upon  the  under  crust  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  disii,  cover  the  beef  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
small  pieces  of  onions  shred  tine;  put  a  small  dust  of  black 
pepper  inside  of  eacii  quail,  and  put  seven  or  eight  into  a 
pie  on  the  beefsteak,  then  put  a  very  small  quantity  of  water 
into  the  dish,  put  on  a  top  crust  and  bake.  The  gravy  is  to 
be  put  in  through  the  rose  on  the  top  of  the  crust  with  a 
small  funnel,  so  as  not  to  spill  over  the  crust.     The  gravy  is 


00  MY  MOTRER'S  COOK  BOOK. 

to  be  made  the  day  previous,  if  possible,  as  follows  :  take  a 
])iece  of  veal  or  beef,  one  blade  of  mace,  two  cloves  and  four 
or  five  allspice ;  stew  tbera  togetber  in  a  sauce]ian  till  tbe 
flavoi' of  tbe  spice  is  out;  tbe  firavy  sbonld  be  a  little  ricb 
witb  tbe  fat,  on  account  of  tbe  birds  being  dry;  strain  the 
{iravy  tbrougb  a  sieve  and  ])Our  it  into  tbe  ])ie,  hot  as  you 
can,  witb  tbe  funnel  as  before  named.  Cliicken  i)ie  the 
same.  Cut  u])  tbe  back,  bead,  neck  and  gizzard  for  tbe 
gravy.  Mk.s.  Sam'l  Treat. 

STKWED    CHICKEN    WITH    OYSTERS. 

Season  and  stew  a  chicken  in  a  quart  of  water  until  very 
tender,  but  iu)t  to  fall  from  tbe  bones:  take  it  out  on  a  hot 
disb  and  keej)  it  warm  :  then  ])ut  into  tbe  liquor  in  which  it 
was  stewed,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  mix  a  little 
flour  and  water,  sinoolh,  and  make  thick  gravy:  season  well 
witb  pepper  and  salt  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil :  have  ready  a 
(juart  of  oysters  picked  over,  and  ])ut  them  in  without  any 
of  tiie  liipior:  stir  them  around,  and  as  soon  as  they  are 
cooked  i)our  all  over  the  chicken.  Mrs.  ,1.  F.  E. 

FRIED   CHM'KEN. 

After  cleaning  tbe  cliicken,  cut  and  (jnarter;  put  some 
lard  in  a  skillet  and  fry  tbe  pieces;  when  done  take  the  pieces 
out  ;  rul»  into  tbe  lard,  until  perfectly  smooth,  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  with  salt  and  i)epper  to  season;  then  add  a  cupful 
of  milk  or  cream  ;  let  all  come  to  a  boil;  then  pour  over  the 
fried  chicken. 

FRIED    €HI<  KE\. 

Beat  two  eggs,  to  which  add  a  little  milk  ;  pepper  and  salt 
your  cliicken,  dij)  it  in  your  eggs  and  milk,  and  then  in  grated 
cracker;  fry  in  butter  until  brown.  Mhs.  Davis. 

FRI<\4SSEED    CHK'KEX. 

Tbe  chickens  should  be  washed,  jointed;  take  out  the  in- 
wards; place  them  in  a  st'ew  pan  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 


POULTRY.  61 


pepper,  add  three  or  four  slices  of  pork,  cover  with  water 
and  stew  until  tender;  on  taking  them  ui>  mix  a  little  Hour 
and  water,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  hen's  eji'g,  ])our  it  into 
the  liquor  the  chickens  were  stewed  in  ;  a  little  mace,  nutmeg' 
or  sweet  herbs  may  be  added  if  liked;  after  ])uttin}i'  all  the 
ingredients  together  let  it  simmer,  but  do  not  let  it  boil; 
watch  it  carefully.  Half  a  pint  of  boiling  cream,  a  large 
teaspoonful  arrow  root  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs 
mixed  with  more  cream  may  also  be  added. 

TO    <'OOK    AX    OLD    C'HIC'KKX. 

Wash  carefully  aud  till  with  buttered  bread  crumbs,  sea- 
soned with  pej)per,  salt  and  thyme ;  ]>ut  in  a  pot  witji  a  tight 
fitting  cover  with  about  a  i)int  of  water;  turn  often  and  cook 
tw'o  hours  or  until  tender. 

CHICKEX    STIFFED    WITH    OYSTERS. 

Take  a  young  chicken,  stuiiit  with  raw  oysters  and  a  little 
salt;  ])ut  in  a  stone  Jar  tightly  covered  ;  set  that  in  a  pot  of 
cold  water;  if  a  tender  chicken  it  will  boil  in  half  hour:  when 
done  take  the  chicken  out,  j)ut  it  on  a  platter,  then  take  the 
liquor  that  is  left  in  the  jar,  pour  it  in  a  stew  i)an,  mix  two 
tablespoon fuls  of  Hour,  a  very  little  cayenne  pei)per,  little 
salt,  half  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  in  the  li(iuor, 
boil  a  few  moments,  when  done  pour  over  the  chicken.  A 
very  nice  dish  for  invalids,  leaving  out  the  pepi)er  and 
sauce.  Mrs.  E.  D.  Lowe. 

SMOTHERED    CHICKEX. 

Cut  the  chickens  in  the  back  ;  lay  them  tiat  in  a  dripi>ing 
pan  with  one  cup  of  water;  let  them  stew  iu  the  oven  until 
they  begiu  to  get  tender;  take  them  out  and  season  with  salt 
and  pei)per.  Kub  together  one  and  one-half  tablesi)Oonfuls 
of  tlour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  spread  all  over  the 
chicken;  |)ut  back  in  the  oven,  baste  well,  and  when  lender 
aud  nicely  brown  take  out  of  the  dripping  pan.  Mix  with 
the  gravy  in  the  pan  one  cup  of  milk  thickened  with  a  little 


62  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


flour,  put  on  top  of  the  stove  and  let  it  scald  up  well,  and 
pour  over  the  chicken ;  parsley  chopped  line  is  a  nice  addition 
to  the  gravy.  Maggie  Fanning. 

JEI.I.IE1>   C'HICKEIV. 

Take  one  large  chicken,  or  two  small  ones ;  boil  them  in 
a  quart  of  water  till  tender ;  cut  off  the  meat,  put  the  skin 
and  bones  back  into  the  liquor  and  boil  this  down  to  a  pint 
of  jelly  (about  three  quarters  of  an  hour).  Chop  up  the  meat 
of  the  chicken  and  pound  it  tine;  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  mustard,  one  of  salt,  one  of  butter,  a  little  pepper 
and  half  a  teacujjful  of  the  liquid  jelly,  from  which  you  must 
strain  the  bones  and  skin ;  the  remainder  of  the  liquid  jelly 
pour  into  the  bottom  of  the  mould  and  let  it  cool ;  put  the 
pounded  chicken  in  a  saucei)an  and  warm  it  so  that  all  the 
ingredients  may  be  thoroughly  mixed ;  then  let  it  cool  and 
spread  it  on  top  of  the  jelly  in  the  mould;  set  the  mould  in 
a  cool  place;  when  wanted  to  serve  set  the  mould  for  an 
instant  in  warm  water  and  turn  put  like  blano  mange. 

Mrs.  H.  X.  Davis. 

BOXKl>    CHICKED. 

Take  a  chicken,  parboil  it,  then  slit  down  the  back,  taking 
out  the  back-l>one  and  ribs  :  stuff  with  force  meat,  lard  the 
V)reast,  making  two  rows  down  on  each  side  :  l»ake  in  the  oven, 
basting  well,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce  on  the  dish. 

Force  Meat. — Finely  cliopped  lamb  or  tongue  seasoned 
with  small  ])ieces  of  pork,  suunner  savory,  peper,  salt  and 
plenty  of  lemon.  Mrs.  J.  G.  CHAPMAN. 

S\IPK    A.M»    WOOIMOC'KJS. 

Pick  them  immediately;  wipe  them  very  clean  outside, 
drawiug  out  the  one  gut  from  the  inside,  leaving  the  heart, 
liver,  etc..  in.  Truss  tlu-m  with  the  legs  close  to  the  body,  and 
the  feet  pressing  upon  the  thighs;  skin  the  head  and  neck, 
and  bring  the  beak  round  uuder  the  wing.  After  the  birds 
are  picked  and  trussed,  put  a  thin  layer  of  bacon  over  them, 


POULTRY.  63 


and  tie  it  on ;  toast  and  butter  a  slice  of  bread,  and  put  it 
under  them  for  the  trail  to  drop  on.  Baste  them  continually 
with  butter,  and  roast  them;  if  large,  will  take  twenty-live 
minutes.  Take  up  the  toast,  cut  it  in  quarters,  put  it  in  a 
dish,  and  pour  some  gravy  and  butter  over  it.  Take  u])  the 
birds,  put  them  on  it  with  the  bills  outwards.  Serve  with 
plain  butter  sauce. 

STIFFED    UlIAILK. 

After  the  birds  have  been  dressed  and  washed  in  cold 
water,  tie  across  the  breast  of  each  a  thin  slice  of  bacon. 
Stuff  each  bird  with  the  following  stutling,  and  bake  in  a 
drii)ping  pan,  basting  them  thoroughly.  Stutling:  Slice  quite 
tine  three  bundles  of  celery;  cut  in  small  pieces  one  can 
of  prepared  mushrooms,  and  half  a  can  of  tomatoes.  Mix 
them  with  enough  bread  crumbs  to  make  the  stuffing  easy 
to  handle  and  till  each  bird  as  full  as  possible. 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Chapman. 

!«i9IALIi    BIRDS    BROILFD. 

After  being  dressed,  split  them  down  the  the  back  ;  spread 
them  Hat  an<l  l)roil  them  very  gently  over  a  bright  tire  of 
coals;  butter,  salt  and  pepper  them,  and  serve  quickly. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

POTTED    PKiEOXS. 

Take  four  or  live  slices  of  pork,  and  cut  into  small  bits, 
and  fry  out  till  it  is  crispy.  Stir  the  pork  all  the  time,  then 
turn  it  into  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Clean  the  pigeons  nicely. 
Clean  the  hearts,  livers  and  gizzards,  and  i)ut  them  aside  in  a 
bowl  of  cold  water.  Then  make  a  nice  dressing  of  pork,  bread, 
sage  and  pepper:  have  it  hard  enough  to  roll  into  balls  ;  stuff 
the  i)igeons  and  lay  tiiem  on  their  backs  in  a  kettle:  cover 
them  with  cold  water;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  If  tender 
they  will  cook  in  an  hour  and  a  half;  if  old,  they  will  take 
two  and  a  half  or  more.  Fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before 
you  take  them  off,  take  four  spoonfuls  of  tlour,  mixed  with 


64  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


enough  water  to  get  out  tlie  lumps,  and  put  in  the  kettle. 
The  water  will  probably  hav^e  boiled  away,  so  add  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  have  one  good- boil 
up.  Put  the  inwards  in  to  boil  when  you  do  the  pigeons. 
Be  sure  to  keep  a  tea-kettle  of  boiling  water  handy,  in  order 
to  replenish.  Turn  the  kettle  round  frequently,  that  the 
pigeons  may  not  burn.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Davis. 

YEAI.    OR    POULTRY    CAKE. 

'  Chop  cold  veal  or  chicken  very  tine:  mix  two  cups  of  the 
meat  with  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  that  have  soaked  in  milk; 
add  half  a  cup  of  cream,  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter, 
one  egg  well  beaten,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg; 
bake  in  a  deep  dish,  and  eat  cold,  cut  in  slices. 

Mrs.  Krim. 

<  HICKKX    CHEESE. 

Two  cliickcns  boiled  tender:  chop  them  but  not  too  tine; 
season  with  salt  and  pejjper;  boil  three  or  four  eggs  and  slice 
them  ;  line  moulds  or  dishes  with  these;  pour  in  the  chicken 
an<l  add  tlie  liquor  they  boiled  in:  when  cold,  slice  for  lunch 
or  tea.  Mrs.  D.  Young. 

<1II<'KE>    CHEESE. 

Boil  an  old  chicken  until  most  to  pieces:  take  out  all  the 
bones,  and  chop  the  meat  tine :  season  well  and  pour  in  enough 
of  the  broth  to  make  moist  :  press  into  moulds  to  get  cold, 
slice  them.  Miss  E.  Tfcker. 

< UK  KE\    SAITE    A    I.A    IIIAXCJE. 

Cut  a  raw  chicken  into  ten  parts:  put  sweet  oil  in  sauce- 
pan; fry  both  sides  brown:  add  garlic  chopped  with  parsley 
to  suit  taste  :  dredge  with  tiour  and  till  with  water  or  beef 
stock;  cover  close  and  stew  in  oven  until  done:  add 
mushrooms  or  trufties;  fry  eggs  on  both  sides  and  serve 
with  chicken.  Kevkre  House. 


POULTRY.  65 


CHICKEX    OB   VKAI.    CROQUETTES. 

('hop  roast  or  boiled  chicken  or  veal  as  line  as  mince  meat ; 
pound  it  with  a  ])otato  masher ;  take  saiK^e  of  milk  or  cream 
thickened  with  tlour  and  Initter  (similar  to  drawn  butter), 
half  an  onion  chopped  tine  ;  scald  a  piece  of  celery  in  the 
sauce  (and  then  remove  it) ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt; 
mix  together  very  soft ;  make  into  the  form  of  sausages  ;  put 
them  on  ice  for  several  hours ;  when  wanted  for  serving,  dip 
them  in  beaten  eggs  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  lard  until 
brown.     A  little  parsley  improves  them. 

CIIICKE^    C'ROillJETTES. 

Boil  two  chickens,  mince  line;  two  small  onions,  mince 
fine;  one  bunch  of  parsley  minced  tine;  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper  to  taste;  rind  of  one  lemon,  ininced  tine;  mix  all  to- 
gether Avith  three-fourths  cup  of  cream  ;  roll  in  bread  crumbs; 
dip  in  eggs;  roll  in  cracker  meal,  and  fry  brown. 

>[ks.  Cornelia  Bekr. 

C'ROOrETTE    OF    FOWr. 

Mince  the  fowl,  removing  all  skin  and  bone;  fry  three  or 
four  small  onions  in  one  ounce  of  butter;  add  the  chopj)ed 
fowl;  dredge  in  one  teaspoonful  of  Hour;  add  ])epper,  salt, 
j)Ounded  mace  and  one-half  teaspoonful  tine  sugar;  suiiticient 
soup  stock  to  moisten  it ;  stir  also  in  it  the  yolks  of  two  well 
l)eaten  eggs,  and  set  it  by  to  cool;  then  jnake  the  mixture  up 
into  balls;  egg  and  bread  crumb  them,  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

Mrs.  G.  Leighton. 

c  rouiii:ttf:s. 

Cut  roast  veal,  or  the  white  part  of  roast  turkey  or 
chicken,  into  small  dice.  Stir  together  a  tablesjjoonful  of 
flour  and  butter;  melt  and  thin  it  with  a  little  chicken  brotli 
and  cream;  let  it  boil  till  thick:  season  Avith  a  little  nutmeg, 
pepper,  salt  and  lemon  ]>eel.  Put  iu  the  minced  meat  and 
let  it  simmer  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes ;  put  the  mixture  on 


MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  HOOK. 


a  platter  to  cool ;  then  form  into  balls  and  roll  them  twice 
in  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling  lard,  in  a  deep 
kettle.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Krum. 

C'HICKKN  C'ROUIKTTKS. 

Take  the  remnants  of  chicken  or  turkey,  chop  tine,  add 
pepper,  salt  and  a  little  spice;  mix  with  this  one-ipiarter  as 
much  brea<l  crumbs  as  you  have  meat ;  make  into  pointed 
balls  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  roll  these 
in  beaten  egg  and  rolled  cracker,  and  fry  in  butter  or  lard  ; 
serve  dry  and  hot;  garnish  with  parsley  if  desired. 

CROQllKTTES. 

One  large  chicken  boiled  until  very  soft;  Jnst  before  done 
drop  two  sets  (halves'  brains,  tied  up  in  thin  muslin  cloth, 
in  to  boil ;  when  they  are  all  thoroughly  boiled,  choi>i)e<l  very 
tine,  add  one  cup  beef  suet  chojjped  tine,  season  well  with 
salt,  iK'pjx'r,  parsley,  nutmeg,  and  the  Juice  of  one  lemon; 
if  stitt"  a<ld  a  little  cream;  make  as  soft  as  you  can  roll,  and 
make  ;niy  sha])e  you  choose;  dip  in  yolk  of  egg,  then  rolled 
cracker,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  boiling  lard  like  an  oyster. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Campbell. 


SALADS. 


SALADS. 


FOR  €HICKE3f   OK   I.OBKTKR. 

Use  cither  celery  or  lettuce,  about  as  much  as  yon  have 
meat;  chop  tine  or  coarse  to  taste;  salt  well.  For  dressing 
for  one  or  two  chickens,  take  yolks  of  two  raw  and  two  hard 
boiled  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  dry  mustard  and  stirring  in 
one  direction ;  slowly  add  one-third  of  a  half  pint  bottle  of 
olive  oil,  juice  of  one  lemon,  then  more  oil  until  two-thirds  of 
the  bottle  is  used ;  add  a  little  vinegar  and  salt;  mix  this 
slowly,  stirring  one  way  well :  it  will  get  thick  and  rich  as 
cream.  Mix  dressing  and  chicken  just  before  using;  by 
keei>ing  covered  the  dressing  will  keep  several  hours.  If 
turkey  is  preferred  to  chicken  use  only  the  breast ;  but  if 
chicken,  all  the  meat  can  be  used  ;  skin  it,  of  course;  instead 
of  chopping,  some  tear  the  meat  into  shreds;  if  choi>ped,  do 
not  mince  too  tine.  Mi8t<  K.  Kobekts. 

SAfiAD  I>RKSSIXG. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  boiled  hard  and  mashed  very  tine; 
break  in  two  raw  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablesi)Oonful  of  mus- 
tard, one  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  one  cup  of  olive  oil;  put  in 
the  oil  by  the  teaspoonful,  beating  hard  all  the  time;  one  cu]) 
of  cream,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  ])ut  in  the  last  thing. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulwifkk. 

C'lIIC'KEX   KAI.A]>. 

F.oil  two  nice  chickens;  when  cold  remove  all  the  meat 
and  chop  rather  tine;  wash  and  separate  two  large  heads  of 
celery;  cut  the  tender  ])art  into  pieces  about  an  inch  long, 
and  ciiop  the  remainder  with  the  chicken;  take  tlie  yolks  of 
eight  hard  boiled  eggs  and  mash  them  to  a  paste  with  the  back 


68  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 

of  a  spoon :  add  one  small  teaspoonfiil  of  fine  salt,  the  same 
of  cayenne  i)ei)per,  four  tablespoon i'uls  made  mustard,  a  wine- 
glass and  a  half  of  good  vinegar,  same  quantity  of  best  table 
oil ;  tlien  add  the  yolk  of  one  raw  egg  well  beaten;  mix  all 
togethei'  thoroughly  until  quite  smooth.  Pour  it  on  the 
chicken  and  celery  and  mix  all  together  with  a  silver  fork. 

Mrs.  Frank  Fillky. 

I>RKSSINC;    FOR    CHICKE\   S\I.4I>. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  two  teaspoonfuls 
mustard,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt;  beat 
together  until  thick  ;  pour  gradually  and  beat  into  it  one  ]»int 
of  olive  oil ;  when  thick,  t])in  with  vinegar,  and  add  at  the  last 
a  little  cream.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Morton. 

l»OTAT«   SAI.A1> 

Slice  or  cut  in  small  pieces  cold  boih'd  potatoes;  rub  on 
a  bowl  an  onion  to  get  just  a  slight  tlavor  of  the  onion;  then 
mix  a  dressing  of  two  yolks  of  raw  eggs  rubl»ed  smooth,  two 
mustardspoons  of  mustard,  two  saltspoons  of  salt,  and 
l^epper;  then  add  four  tablespoons  of  best  salad  oil  very 
gradually,  two  tablespoons  of  sharj)  vinegar.  Choppe«l 
y)arslev  and  chopped  celery  stalks  are  a  great  a<ldition.  It 
is  better  to  have  the  dressing  penned  over  the  sala«l  two  or 
three  hours  before  using.  ^[rs.  E.  F.  Elc'llARDS. 

V»»lk  of  one  egg(raw) ;  one  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  sugar  and 
dry  mustar«l,a  very  little  cayenne  jjcpper,  two  tablespooufuls 
of  vinegar,  one  (juarter  of  a  large  bottle  of  oil.  Put  the  in- 
gredients, except  the  oil  and  \inegar,  in  a  soup  jdate,  mix 
very  smooth  witii  a  sahwl  fork;  then  add  the  oil  and  viiu'gar 
alternately,  very  little  at  a  time,  stirring  constantly  till  thick 
and  smooth.     Set  in  a  cool  place  till  needed. 

Mtss   Krim. 
SAI.AII  l>RKSSIX<;. 

The  yolks  of  four  eggs  (raw^;  two-thirds  cup  of  olive  oil; 
one  tablespoonful  mixed  mustard;  one  teaspoonful  salt;  one 


SALADS.  69 

teaspoonful  sugar;  beat  these  together,  ad<ling  the  oil  very 
slowly.  When  well  mixed,  add  two-thirds  cup  of  vinegar; 
set  it  on  the  stove,  or  over  boiling  water,  to  thicken  ;  when 
cool  add  the  whites,  which  must  be  beaten  to  a  foam  ;  mix 
part  with  the  salad,  leaving  some  to  poni'  over  the  top;  gar- 
nish with  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced. 

Mrs.  L.  B.  M.,  Boston. 

NALA1>  I>RE:S8I]VG. 

One  hard  boiled  egg,  mix  one  tablespoon fnl  of  vinegar,  if 
weak,  two;  six  tablespoonfnls  of  oil,  one  teaspoonful  of 
mixed  mustard,  one  of  salt  and  i)epi)ei',  one  egg  not  cooked. 

]\Irs.  Lanes. 

MR.  T.'S  I.ETTUOK  I>KKS^IX€i. 

Take  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  rub  the  yolks  till  tine,  and  mix 
with  tablespoon  of  mustard  Avet  with  vinegar;  two  tea- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of  butter,  a  little 
salt;  sometimes  sweet  oil  is  used  instead  of  butter.  Cut 
the  lettuce  tine,  and  pour  the  dressing  over  it.  Dress  the 
top  with  the  whites  of  eggs  cut  in  rings. 

liETTUC'K    SAT.A]>. 

The  yolk  of  an  egg  rubbed  smooth,  one  spoon  of  made 
mustard,  saltspoon  of  salt,  pepper;  then  add  two  table- 
spoons of  olive  oil,  gradually;  one  tablespoon  of  sharp  vin- 
egar. Mrs.  J.  T.  Davis. 

SI. AW    DKESSIJVG. 

Take  a  spoonful  of  butter,  rub  into  it  a  little  tiour;  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  dry  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  black 
pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  brown 
sugar,  rub  together;  pour  over  it  a  little  hot  water  to  melt 
the  butter;  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  light,  then  add 
one-half  pin|  of  cream,  or  more.  Set  it  on  the  stove  until 
ready  to  boil,  stirring  it  all  the  time;  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it 
will  curdle;  set  it  on  the  ice  until  you  wish  to  use  it,  then 


70  '  MY  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 


add  vinegar  to  the  taste.    Should  be  made  early  in  the  Djorn- 
ing  or  the  day  before,  to  liave  it  cold. 

Mrs.  Cornelius  Beer. 

COI.D    ST..4W. 

Two  eggs  beaten  light,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  a  piece  of 
butter  size  of  as  an  egg.-,  some  made  mustard,  a  little  salt  and 
cayenne  ])ei>i)er  and  strong  vinegar;  give  it  a  boil  up  and 
scald  the  cut  cabbage  in  it.  ^Fiss  Emily  Tucker. 

SLAW   1>RESSIXC;. 

Two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  tablespoon  of  mustard,  one 
teaspoon  of  pei)per,  one  of  salt,  one  tables]>oon  of  sugar, 
one  cup  vinegar,  one  of  milk  or  cream;  put  this  in  last  and 
stir  every  few  minutes  over  a  fire  till  it  thickens. 

Mrs.  Treat. 

HOIXAXn  HF.RRIX<.i  SAI.AO. 

Two  dozen  Holland  lierring  soaked  over  night  and  skin- 
ned; allspice,  ]>epi)er  and  mustard,  sliced  onion,  tablespoon- 
ful  of  olive  oil,  handful  of  bay  leaves,  three  lemons  sliced; 
add  tlu'  melts;  vinegar  to  taste,  pour  all  over  the  herring. 

Mrs.  John  Lady. 

ri'RRY  l»OWI>KR. 

Mix  an  ounce  of  ginger,  one  of  mustard  and  one  of  ])ep- 
per,  three  of  (coriander  seed,  the  same  quantity  of  turmeric, 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of 
cardamoms,  the  same  of  cummin  seed  and  cinnamon:  pouml 
the  whole  tine,  and  keep  in  a  bottle  tightly  corked. 

T<>  MIX  MISTARW. 

To  one  half  cup  of  mustard  take  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
one  saltspoon  of  salt;  mix  it  smooth  with  a  very  little  cold 
vinegar,  then  thin  it  with  scalding  hot  vinegar. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  FiLLEY. 


SALADS.  71 


HOKSERAmSH  SAICE. 

TO     SERVE     WITH     ROAST    BEEF. 

Four  tablespoons  grated  lioiseradisli,  one  teaspoon  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  salt,  lialf  teaspoon  pepper,  two  teaspoons 
made  mustard,  vinegar;  mix  the  horseradish  well  with  the 
sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  mustard;  moisten  it  with  sufticient 
vinegar  to  give  it  consistency  of  cream;  serve  in  a  tureen. 
Three  or  four  tablespoons  of  cream  added  very  much  im- 
proves it.  Serve  cold  with  cold  meats,  or  heat  (not  boil)  for 
hot  roast  beef.  Mrs.  Avery  Plummer,  Boston. 

SAUCE    HOI.L.AXDAISE    A  L.A   MAISOX   l>ORE£. 

Two  tablespoon fuls  of  tlour  carefully  mixed  with  one 
tumblerful  of  cold  water,  place  over  the  tire,  and  when  cook- 
ed, add  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  lenimon  Juice,  also  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs;  then  draw  from  the  fire  and  add  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  stirring  all  the  time. 

Mr.  J.  B.  G ,  Paris. 

SAIJ€E  BliAXCHE. 

One  pint  of  cream,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  Hour,  not  heaping,  ])inch  of  salt;  mix  Hour 
and  butter  well  together,  boil  your  cream;  as  soon  as  boiled 
pour  part  on  the  butter  and  tlour;  when  well  mixed  add  it 
to  the  rest  of  the  boiling  cream  ;  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  Lowe. 


72  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


VEGETABLES. 


STEAM  POTATOES. 

Peel  aud  fsli(H'  very  tliiii  the  raw  potatoes;  lay  tliem  in 
cold  water  for  a  few  uioineiits;  have  in  your  skillet  either 
a  spoonful  of  butter  or  lard :  put  your  potatoes  in,  season 
with  pei)i>er  and  salt,  stirring  them  fre«iuently  to  keep  from 
burning;  keep  them  tightly  covered.  ]Mks.   Glovek. 

TO  BOII.   NEW  POTATOES. 

Scra])e  the  skins  from  new  potatoes  aud  lay  them  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour  or  tw^o;  i)ut  them  into  a  saucepan  and 
cover  them  with  water;  cover  them  and  boil  for  half  an  hour; 
try  one,  if  quite  done  drain  the  water  oft";  let  them  stand  for 
a  couple  of  minutes;  make  a  sauce  of  hot  milk  thickened 
with  Hour  and  seasoned  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  pour 
over  the  potatoes  and  serve  hot. 

MASIIEO  POTATOES. 

Pare  the  i)otatoe8;  put  them  into  a  saucei)au  with  suf- 
ficient <'old  water  to  cover  them;  let  them  boil  gently  until 
tender;  take  them  \\\)  the  moment  they  are  soft  through, 
which  can  be  ascertained  by  thrusting  a  fork  in  them;  drain 
away  the  water;  put  the  saucepan  by  the  side  of  the  tire 
with  the  lid  partially  uncovered  and  let  the  potatoes  get 
thorougiily  dry,  then  mash  them,  take  a  huge  fork  aud  beat 
them  very  light,  adding  hot  milk  with  melted  butter  in  it, 
and  salt  to  taste.     Serve  hot,  Mrs.  O.   1).   Kilt.kv. 

FRIEI>    POTATOES. 

Peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  in  thin  slices  as  nearly  the  same 
size  as  ])Ossible;  make  some  dripping  or  butter  (luite  hot  in 
a  frying  pan;  put  in  the  potatoes  and  fry  on  both  sides  to  a 


VEGETABLES.  73 


nice  browu;  when  thej  are  crisp  and  done  take  them  up; 
place  them  ouaclotli  before  the  tire  to  drain  the  grease  from 
them,  and  serve  very  hot  after  sprinkling  with  salt;  These 
are  delicious  served  as  a  breakfast  dish.  The  remains  of 
cold  potatoes  may  be  sliced  and  fried  by  the  above  recipe, 
but  the  slices  must  be  cut  a  little  thicker. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

Slice  the  [)otatoe8  very  thin  on  a  potato  cutter;  lay  them 
in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  then  drain  and  spread  them  on  a 
dry  towel;  wipe  each  ]>iece  with  a  soft  dry  cloth  and  fry  a 
few  at  a  time  in  boiling  bird,  in  a  deep  kettle.  Take  them 
up  with  a  skimmer  when  browned  lightly,  and  sj)rinkle  a 
little  tine  salt  over  them.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Krum. 

TO  BKOII.  POTATOES. 

After  broiling  a  steak,  take  some  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
cut  lengthwise,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  dip  each  piece  in 
tioiir  and  lay  them  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  tire.  When 
both  sides  are  nicelj'  browned,  put  them  on  a  hot  dish,  with  a 
piece  of  butter  over  them,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 
Serve  them  up  hot.  Mrs.  E.  F.  Eiohards. 

POTATOES  A  liA  CREME. 

Put  into  a  saucej>an  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a 
small  handful  of  parsley,  chopped  small,  salt  and  pepjier  to 
taste;  stir  up  well  until  hot;  ad<l  a  small  teacupful  of  cream 
or  rich  milk;  thicken  with  a  teaspoouful  of  Hour,  and  stir 
until  it  boils;  chop  some  cold  boiled  potatoes,  put  into  the 
mixture  and  boil  uy)  once  before  serving. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Davis. 

POTATO  SCOI.I.OPS. 

Boil  and  beat  the  potatoes  with  a  little  cream  or  milk,  a 
large  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  ])epper  to  taste;  butler  some 
scallop  shells  or  patty  pans,  till  with  the  mixture  and  brown 
in  an  oven;  when  a  pattern  has  been  stamped  on  each,  glaze 
while  hot  with  butter,  and  serve  in  the  shells  on  a  napkin. 
Grated  cheese  may  be  strewed  on  top. 


74  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


POTATO   C  ROUl  ETTES. 

Twelve  potatoes  boiled,  mashed  and  pressed  through  a  cul- 
lender; pepper,  salt  and  a  little  onion,  a  little  parsley  chop 
ped  tine,  and  a  scant  tablespoon  of  tlour.  piece  of  butter  the 
si/c  of  a  hazel  nut,  yolks  of  two  eggs;  dii)  the  crociuettes  in 
wliites  of  the  eggs;  roll  in  powdered  bread,  and  fry  in  hot 
laid.  Mrs.  D.  Yot'ng. 

POTATO  RI<  E. 

Choose  ten  large  potatoes;  boil  until  tender,  and  mash; 
press  them  through  a  large  cullender  on  to  a  hot  dish  before 
Ili(*  tire;  shake  the  cullender  lightly  every  other  minute  to 
cause  the  ])otatoes  to  fall  off  in  short  grains  like  rice;  serve 
very  hot.  This  will  be  found  a  nice  accompaniment  to  a 
sausage  su))per.  Mif<s  Roberts. 

TO  BROnX  POTATOES  UXOER  MEAT. 

Boil  some  large  mealy  potatoes,  take  off  the  skin  care- 
fully, and  about  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  cooked,  put  them 
into  the  dripping  i)an,  having  well  dredged  them  with  tiour 
before;  drain  them' from  any  grease,  and  serve  them  hot. 

Mrs.  (tlover. 

ROAST    SWEET    POTATOES. 

Select  those  of  uniform  size,  wash,  wi))e  and  roast  until 
mellow  throughout;  serve  in  their  jackets.  Sweet  as  well  as 
Irish  ])otatoes  are  very  nice  roasted  in  hot  ashes. 

BOIf.ED   SWEET    POTATOES. 

Put  into  cold  water  without  salt;  boil  until  a  fork  will 
easily  pierce  the  largest;  turn  otf  the  water  and  lay  them  in 
the  oven  to  dry  for  live  minutes;  peel  before  sending  to 
table.     Or  parboil  and  then  roast  until  done. 

FRIEI>  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Roil  until  nearly  done;  skin  and  cut  lengthwise  into  slices 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  fry  in  sweet  dripping  or  butter, 


VEGETABLES. 


BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Fill  a  tleej)  dish  with  whole  tomatoes  skinned;  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  same  of  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Tomatoes  may  be  sliced  and 
cooked  in  the  same  way. 

STUFFED   BAKED    TOMATOES. 

liake  the  tomatoes  whole;  then  scoop  out  a  small  hole  at 
the  top  and  fill  with  fried  bread  crumbs  and  onions,  or  bread 
crumbs  with  butter,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper;  then  brown  the 
tomatoes  in  an  oven,  and  take  care  that  the  skin  does  not 
break. 

FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Wash  them,  cut  in  slices;  make  a  batter  of  tlour,  water 
and  egg,  and  season  with  ))ei)])er  and  salt;  dip  each  piece  in 
the  batter;  have  ready  some  melted  butter  in  a  pan;  put 
them  in  it,  and  fry  slowly  till  nicely  brown. 

Miss  }^.  L.  Glover. 

STEWED    TOMATOES. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  into  a  lined  saucepan;  season  them 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  small  pieces  of  butter  on 
them;  cover  the  lid  down  closely,  and  stew  from  twenty  to 
twenty  five  minutes,  or.until  the  tomatoes  are  perfectly  ten- 
der. Bread  crumbs  may  be  added  if  desired  to  thicken;  a 
minced  onion— a  small  one — imi>roves  the  flavor  Another 
variety  is,  to  add  a  quarter  as  much  green  corn  as  tomatoes, 
into  the  saucepan  when  first  put  on  the  fire. 

BOUSED  oree:^^  corx. 

Take  young  sugar  corn;  (;lean  by  stripping  oft"  the  outer 
leaves;  turn  back  the  innermost  covering,  pick  oft"  the  silk 
and  recover  the  ear  with  the  husk  that  grew  nearest  it;  tie 
at  the  top;  put  in  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  fast  about 
half  an  hour ;  send  to  the  table  wrapped  in  a  napkin. 


76  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


SU<€OTASH. 

Cut  from  the  col»,  not  too  closely,  yonny  sugar  corn; 
scra])ingoff  with  a  knife  what  is  left  on  the  cob.  Take  a  third 
more  corn  than  beans,  wlien  the  former  has  been  cut  from 
tlie  cob,  and  the  latter  shelled;  i)nt  the  beans  into  boiling- 
water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  cook  half  an  hour  before 
the  corn  is  put  on,  which  should  be  boiled  half  an  hour;  i>ut 
botii  together;  add  a  cnpof  rich  milk  or  cream,  a  large  piece 
of  bntter,  salt  and  ))epj)er  to  taste;  cook  slowly  for  half  an 
hour;  watch  closely  to  prevent  burning. 

^[aky   Colbukt. 
SUCCOTASH. 

One  quart  of  Lima  l)eans  i)ut  on  in  two  <iuarts  of  cold 
water;  while  boiling  cut  the  corn  from  a  dozen  ears,  and 
boil  the  cobs  for  a  few  minutes  with  the  beans;  wheu  the 
beans  are  done,  stir  the  corn  with  the  beans,  and  add  one 
cnp  of  cream,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teas|>oon  of 
sugar,  salt  and  i)ej)i)er  to  taste;  the  corn  should  cook  twenty 
minutes.  A  small  piece  of  salt  j)ork  cooked  with  the  beans 
is  a  great  imjuovement.  Mrs.  C,  B.  Richards. 

STEMKI>    GKEEX    C'ORX. 

Vui  from  the  cob  and  stew  in  boiling  water,  tifteen  min- 
utes; turn  ott"  most  of  the  water;  cover  with  cold  milk,  and 
stew  until  tender,  addinga  large  lumpof  butter,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  rolle<l  in  tlour;  season  with  salt   and  i)epper  to  taste. 

C)OR]V   CAKES    OK    IflOCK   OYSTERS. 

One  i»int  of  grated  green  corn,  three  tablesi)oons  of  milk, 
one-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half 
of  pepper,  one  egg;   bake  on  a  griddle;  tlour  to  stitfen. 

LI^IA    BEAXS. 

Hoil  about  an  hour;  pour  the  water  off;  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter:  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Dried  Lima  beans  must  be  soaked  over  night,  and  boiled 
'o  hours,  or  until    they  are    soft,  and    should  have  some 
im  added  to  the  dressing. 


VEGETABLES.  77 


OiK'-half  pound  of  niacaioni  boiled  in  a  (|iiart  ol'  milk 
and  water  for  one  hour,  teaspoonful  of  salt  i>ut  in  a  disli. 
and  cover  tlie  top  witli  <irated  cheese;  bake  for  thre(v<|uarters 
of  an  hour. 

ITAT.IAX  i»IACARO^I. 

Take  three  pints  of  beef  soup;  clean  and  put  into  it  one 
pound  of  macaroni;  add  a  little  salt  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Then  take  up  the  macaroni,  which  should  have  absorbed 
most  of  the  soup:  put  it  on  a  Hat  dish,  sprinkle  grate«l  cheese 
over  it  thickly  and  pour  over  it  all  plentifully  a  sauce  made 
of  tomatoes  well  boiled,  strained  and  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pei)per.     This  is  excellent.  Mi?s.  H.  McKtttrick. 

MACAROXI  A  liA  CREME. 

Boil  ten  minutes  in  salted  boiling  water ;  drain;  add  a  cup 
of  milk;  stew  nntil  tender;  heat  to  boiling  in  another  sauce- 
pan a  cu))  of  milk  thickened  with  a  teaspoonful  of  Hour,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  beaten  egg.  When  this 
thickens  pour  over  the  macaroni  after  it  is  disln-d.  This 
may  be  eaten  with  butter,  sugar  and  nutmeg,  or  if  serve<l 
with  meat,  grate  cheese  thickly  over  it. 

BOIT^EI>  HOMIXY. 

Large  hominy,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water;  next  day 
put  it  into  a  pot  with  at  least  two  quarts  of  water  to  a  quart 
of  hominy  and  boil  slowly  three  or  more  hours  until  it  is 
soft;  drain  in  a  cullender  and  stir  in  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Small  hominy  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  stirring 
almost  constantly  at  the  last,  it  should  be  thick  as  mush 
and  eaten  with  sugar,  cream  and  nutmeg. 

FRIE]>    IIOMIXT. 

Cut  in  slices  cold  boiled  hominy  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or 
drippings,  or  moisten  with  milk;  add  melted  butter;  bind 
with  a  l)eaten  egg;  form  into  round  cakes;  dredge  with  Hour 
and  fry  a  light  brown. 


78  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


HOmWY  CROQITETTES. 

Take  one  cupful  of  cold  boiled  bominy;  add  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  one  egg  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar;  mix  well;  roll  into  oval 
balls  with  Houred  liands;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

B4KEI>    lIO:fIIXY. 

Beat  three  eggs  very  liglit,  yolks  and  wliites  separately; 
work  the  yolks  tirst  into  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  hominy, 
alternately  with  a  heai>iug  teaspoonful  of  butter;  when 
thorouglily  mixed  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  a  lit- 
tle salt  and  go  on  beating  until  smooth,  while  you  soften  the 
butter  gradually  with  two  cui)s  of  milk.  Stir  in  the  whites 
and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  until  light,  tirm  and 
brown  a  delicate  color. 

MASIIEI>  C  ARROTS. 

Wash,  scrape  and  lay  in  cold  waterawhile:  boil  tender  in 
hot  water,  slightly  salted;  drain,  mash  smoothly,  adding  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper;  a  little  cream  will  improve  them;  mould 
and  stamp  a  figure  upon  them. 

K01I.E1>    CARROTS. 

Wash  and  scrape  well,  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour; 
if  large,  split  them:  boil  until  tender:  butter  well  and  serve 

hot. 

CARROTS  A  I.  A   1<  I.AM  A  OF. 

Boil  six  or  eight  good  sized  carrots  until  tender;  cut  them 
into  stars  or  dice:  then  stew  them  witli  five  small  onions,  a 
sprig  of  cliopi>ed  paisley,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  three- 
(juarters  of  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  or  a  little  melted  butter; 
serve  very  hot. 

FR1EI>    VAiH  PliANT. 

Slice  the  egg  plant  in  round  slices;  pare  carefully:  lay  in 
salt  and  water  for  an  hour  of  more;   wipe  the  slices  dry,  dip 


VEGETABLES.  79 


in  beaten  eggs,  tlien  in  bread  or  cracker  crnmb.s,  and  fry 
them  brown  in  hot  lard,  or  lard  and  butter  in  e<iual  (]uan- 
tities;    drain  well  and  serve  hot. 

BAKED  EGCJ  PI.A^T. 

Cut  the  egg  plant  lengthwise;  take  out  allot"  the  insides, 
leaving  the  skin  thick  enough  to  keep  the  shape;  chop  up 
the  inside  in  a  wooden  bowl,  with  half  a  teacupful  of  bread 
<;rumbs,  one  tablesi)Oonful  of  butter,  salt  an<l  pepjjer  to 
taste;  after  mixing  well,  put  it  into  the  skins,  lay  them  in  a 
pan  side  by  side,  with  a  little  water;  bake  about  three- 
<iuarters  of  an  hour.  Mrs.  W>i.  G.  Eliot. 

E«C;    PI.A\T. 

Pare  and  slice  one  large  eggplant,  and  let  it  soak  for  half 
an  hour  in  salt  and  water;  then  boil  until  soft  enough  to 
mash;  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  and  Hour  enough  to 
make  a  thin  batter;  stir  in  the  egg  plant  and  fry  like  fritters 
in  boiling  lard. 

TO    BOII.    KK'E. 

Wash  one  teacupful  of  rice  three  times  in  boiling  water; 
put  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  fast  twenty  minutes; 
strain  through  a  cullender;  shake  the  steam  out  and  serve 
immediately.  Mrs.  E.  F.  Richards. 

STEWED   O^IO:^S. 

Skin  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour  or  more;  }>ut  into 
a  saucepan  with  hot  water  enough  to  coA^er  them;  when  half 
done,  throw  off"  all  the  water,  except  a  small  teacupful;  add 
a  like  quantity  of  milk,  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  with  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste;  stew  gently  until  tender,  and  turn  into 
a  deep  dish.  If  the  onions  are  large,  boil  in  three  wat<*rs, 
reserving  a  little  of  the  third  to  mix  with  the  milk.  The 
disagreeable  odor  left  l>y  the  onions  ujjon  the  breath  may  be 
removed  by  chewing  and  swallowing  a  few  grains  of  roasted 
coffee. 


80  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


BAKEI>   SPANISH  ONIOXS. 

Put  Hie  onions,  with  their  skins  on,  into  a  saucepan  of 
boiling:  water,  slightly  salted,  and  let  them  boil  quickly  for 
an  hour;  then  take  them  out,  wii)e  them  thoroughly,  wrap 
each  one  in  a  piece  of  i)aper  separately,  and  bake  them  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  tvv^o  hours  or  longer,  should  the  onions  be 
very  large.  They  may  be  served  in  their  skins  and  eaten 
with  a  seasoning  of  butter,  })epper  and  salt;  or  they  may  be 
peeled,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  and  browned  slightly,  basting 
with  V)uttei'  freely;  serve  in  a  vegetable  dish,  and  pour  over 
the  melted  butter  when  you  have  sprinkled  with  pepper. 

Cut  oft'  the  roots,  wash  and  s<'riii)e  the  stalks,  cut  oft'  the 
green  leaves:  if  the  celery  is  large,  divide  it  lengthwise  into 
quarters,  and  curl  the  tops:  put  in  cold  water  until  sent  to 
the  table. 

C'EI.KRY  A  I.A   CREME. 

Wash  the  celery  thoroughly;  trim,  boil  in  salt  and  water 
until  tender;  boil  until  smooth,  half  a  pint  of  cream  with  a 
piece  of  V)utter  rolled  in  Hour,  a  little  salt  ;vnd  grated  nut- 
meg; dish  the  celery,  pour  over    the  sauce,  and  serve  hot. 

lfi01LEI>   SI>li\AClf. 

Pick  the  spina(;h  very  clean:  wasli  in  several  waters  until 
clean:  put  iu  cold  water  for  lialf  an  lioiir;  then  put  in  boiling 
water,  with  a  little  salt  in  it,  and  boil  until  tender;  drain 
througli  a  cullender;  chop  tine:  then  put  it  into  a  saucepan, 
with  a  i)iece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  pepper. 
Stew  oyei-  the  tiie  until  very  hot,  and  put  into  a  dish;  garnish 
with  i)oached  eggs  at  the  top,  or  sli<'ed  hard  boiled  eggs. 

SPIXACII  A  liA  TRE^IE. 

Boil  until  ten«ler;  chop  very  tine;  riil»  through  a  cul- 
lender; season  with  pejjper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutn»eg. 
Put  iu  a  saucepan;  stir  over  the  tire   until   warm;  pour  in 


YE0ETABLE8.  81 


three  tablespoon fuls  of  cream;  add  a  (|uai'ter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pounded  sugar.  Stir  it  over 
the  tire  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  it  piled  high  in  the  centre 
of  the  dish,  or  pressed  into  a  form,  garnished  with  boiled 

eggs. 

SAT.SIFT.   OR   VKiJE TABLE    OYSTER. 

Scrape  the  loots  thoroughly;  lay  in  cold  water  half  an 
hour.  If  large,  split  them;  put  in  boiling  water,  slightly 
salted,  and  boil  until  tender.  Turn  off  nearly  all  the  water, 
and  add  a  cupful  of  cold  milk.  Stew  ten  minutes  after  it 
begins  to  boil;  add  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  Hour;  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste;  boil  up  once,  and  serve. 

FRIE1>    SALSIFY,  OR    MOC  K   OYSTERS. 

Scra])e  the  roots  and  lay  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes ; 
boil  whole  until  tender;  drain,  and,  when  cold,  mash  to  a 
smootli  ))aste,  picking  out  th<'  fibres;  moisten  with  a  little 
milk,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  an  egg,  a  cup  of  salsify; 
beat  the  eggs  light;  make  into  round  cakes;  dredge  with 
flour,  and  fry  brown. 

BOIT.EO    PARSNIPS. 

ff  the  parsnips  are  young  they  require  only  to  be  scraped 
l)efore  boiling;  old  ones  must  be  pared  thin  and  split;  put 
them  into  boiling  salted  water;  boil  until  tender,  take  them 
up,  drain  them  and  slice  lengthwise,  buttering  well  when 
dished.  They  are  generally  served  with  boiled  beef,  pork,  or 
salt  cod,  and  also  added  as  a  garnish  Avith  boiled  carrots. 

FRIEI>    PARSNIPS. 

fioil  until  tender,  then  skin  and  cut  them  in  lengthwise 
slices  of  a  <|uarter  of  an  inch  in  tiiickness.  I)redg«^  with 
flour,  and  fry  in  boiling  butter  oi'  hot  dripping,  turning  when 
one  side  is  browned.  Drain,  pei)per,  and  serve  hot,  with 
roast  meat. 
G 


82  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


PARSNIPS.    BOII.i:i>    AND    BROWNED 

UNDER    ROA.ST   BEEF. 

Wash  and  scrape,  and,  if  larjir,  split  the  parsnips.  Put 
them  into  boilin<>  salt  and  water,  and  boil  quickly  until 
tender.  Take  them  up,  drain  dry,  and  i)ut  them  in  the 
drip]>ing  pan  under  roast  beef;  dredj^e  over  them  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  and  brown  nicely.  Serve  them  in  a  separ- 
ate dish,  with  a  few  as  a  fiaruish  around  the  meat. 

PARSNIPS.  MASHKD. 

Boil  aiul  .scrai>e,  mash  smooth  with  the  back  of  a  wooden 
spoon,  with  a  lew  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  large  spoonful  of 
butter,  pep|)er  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling  in  a  sauce- 
pan, and  serve. 

ST E WE  1>  PA RS N IPS . 

Pare  and  boil  tender;  cut  in  slices  and  put  them  into  a 
stew])an,  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  Hour,  grated  nutmeg  and  salt:  shake  over  the  tire  till  well 
mixed;  dish  them  and  garnish  with  ))arslcv. 

BOILED   (<ABBA<;E. 

Take  a  head  of  cal)bage,  wash  the  leaves  carefully,  chop 
tine;  i)Utinto  a  pot  with  cobl  water,  boil  half  an  hour:  then 
)>our  tlu'  water  oti',  add  mon^  hot  water;  let  it  l)oil  another 
half  hour,  drain  the  cabbage,  add  a  half  cup  of  milk,  thick- 
ened with  n  little  tlour,  ami  a  lump  of  butter:  season  with 
salt  and  pep[)er;  let  it  all  Just  come  to  a  boil  :  serve  hot. 
Cookc<l  in  this  way,  is  almost  as  «lelicate  as  caulitlower. 

lABBAOE  WITH  FORCE  MEAT  A  LA  FRANC'AISE. 

Take  off  the  outer  leaves  of  a  large  cabbage:  scald  in 
hot  water  for  ten  minutes;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  by  the 
side  of  the  stalk,  and  till  it  and  between  each  leaf,  with 
minced  beef  or  mutton  highly  seasoned,  or  with  some 
sausage  force  meat':  l)ind  it  round  neatly  an<l  stand  it  in  a 
stewi)an  with  some  stock,  a  slice  of  bacon,  a  sprig  of  thyme, 


VEGETABLES.  83 


the  bay  leaf  and  two  carrots ;  let  all  stew  gently,  and  when 
done  place  the  cabbage  on  a  dish,  nntie  the  string  and  ponr 
strained  gravy  over  it.  Garnish  with  carrots  and  turnips, 
and  serve  hot. 

SlIIUMER  SQUASH. 

Wash,  pare,  quarter;  take  out  the  seeds  and  lay  the 
pieces  in  cold  water;  boil  until  tender;  drain  well,  ]>ress- 
ing  out  all  the  water;  mash  soft  and  smooth,  seasoning  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  serve  hot.  Winter  squash  and 
pumpkins  are  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

BAKKD    SUIASH. 

Select  a  good  pumpkin ;  take  out  the  seeds ;  cut  in 
•piarters;  pare  and  slice  lengthwise  half  an  inch  thick; 
arrange  in  layers,  not  more  than  two  or  three  slices  deep,  in 
a  shallow  baking  dish  ;  put  a  very  little  water  in  the  bottom  ; 
bake  slowly  until  dry.  Butter  each  strip  on  both  sides  when 
you  dish,  and  eat  hot  with  bread  and  butter  for  tea. 

BOii^KD  titr:^ip. 

Pare  the  turnips,  aud,  if  large,  divide  into  ([uarters ;  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  salted  water  aud  boil  gently 
until  tender;  then  drain  them  dry  and  rub  through  a  cullen- 
der with  a  wooden  spoon,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  or 
milk,  aud  put  into  another  stewpan  with  a  large  piece  of 
butter,  white  pep[>er,  aud,  if  necessary,  salt:  stir  over  the 
tire  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  very  hot.  Dish  them  up  and 
serve. 

TURXIPS    IN    WHITE    SAUCE. 

Peel  aud  cut  the  turnips  in  the  shape  of  pears  or  marbles  ; 
boil  them  in  salt  aud  water,  to  which  has  been  added  a  little 
butter,  until  tender;  tlicn  take  them  out;  arrange  on  a  dish  ; 
[)our  over  a  sauce  made  of  a  pint  aud  a  half  of  milk,  boiled 
with  an  ounce  aud  a  half  of  rice,  aud  one  strii>  of  lemon 
peel,  uutil  the  rice  is  tender ;  then  take  out  the  lemon  peel 


84  MT  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


and  pound  the  milk  and  rice  tofietber;  put  it  back  in  tbe 
stevvpan  to  warm ;  add  mace  and  seasoning  and  give  it  one 
boil.     The   sauce   should   be  of   the  consistency  of  cream. 

BOII.£]>    «EETS. 

Wash,  boil  until  tender,  rub  off  the  skin,  and  slice;  heat 
to  boiling  a  large  tablespoonfnl  of  melted  butter,  with  four 
or  five  of  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt,  and  ])our  over  tliem. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Fillky. 

Scrape  the  white  parts  of  the  stem,  beginning  from  the 
head;  jMit  in  cold  water;  tie  them  into  bundles,  keeping  the 
head*)  all  one  way,  and  cut  the  stalks  evenly;  put  them  into 
salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  ipiickly  until  tender,  with  the 
saucepan  uncovered;  when  the  asparagus  is  done,  dish  it 
upon  toast,  which  should  be  dipped  in  the  water  it  was 
cooked  in,  and  leave  the  white  ends  outwards  each  way, 
with  the  i)oints  meeting  in  the  middle;  serve  with  melted 
Imtter. 

ASPARiCilS    IX    FRKXC'If   ROM.S. 

Cut  the  green  part  off  of  tifty  young  asparagus:  wash 
well,  boil  and  strain  them;  take  half  a  do/eu  French  rolls, 
cut  a  piece  neatly  out  of  the  top  crusts,  taking  care  that  they 
will  tit  again  ;  pick  all  the  crumb  out  of  the  inside,  and  crisj) 
them  before  the  tire,  or  fry  brown  in  butter;  then  take  half 
a  i)int  of  cream,  with  the  yolks  of  four  or  tive  eggs  :  beat  in 
it  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  stir  well  over  a  slow  tire  until 
it  begins  to  thicken;  put  in  three  parts  of  th<>  asparagus, 
cut  small;  then  till  the  rolls  with  them,  put  on  the  tops; 
make  holes  in  them,  stick  some  asparagus  in  as  if  it  were 
growing;  put  on  a  dish  and  serve  hot. 

ASlMKA^aS   i»rin>i\<-. 

Cut  up  tlu'  green  tender  jtartsof  the  aspaiagus  about  the 
size  of  peas;  put  in  a  basin  with  four  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
one  tablespoonfnl  of  tinely  minced  ham,  butter,  pei)per  and 


VEGETABLES.  85 


salt ;  mix  all  well  together  and  moisten  with  snflrtcient  milk 
to  make  a  thick  batter;  i)iit  into  a  pint  bntteied  mould,  tie 
down  tightly  with  a  tlouied  cloth,  i)lace  it  in  boiling  water, 
and  let  it  boil  for  two  hours;  turn  it  out  of  the  mould  on  to 
a  hot  dish,  and  ])our  plain  melted  butter  around,  but  not  over 
the  pudding. 

BOII.KD  CAULIFLOWER. 

Choose  large  white  caulitlowers;  pick  otf  the  leaves,  cut 
the  stalk  off  tiat  at  the  bottom ;  wash  well,  and  soak  in  cold 
water  half  an  hour;  tie  in  a  close  net  of  bobinet  lace,  to  pre- 
vent its  breaking;  put  into  boiling  water,  salted,  and  cook 
until  tender;  drain  and  serve  with  |)lain  melted  butter;  or  a 
sauce  may  l)e  made  of  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  thickened  with 
a  very  little  rice  or  tiour,  and  two  tablespoons  of  melted  l)ut- 
ter,  pe[)per  and  salt,  ]>oured  over  the  caulitlower. 

SC'OM.OPEl>   CAILIFLOWER. 

Boil  until  tender;  cut  in  small  clusters  and  put  in  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish,  with  the  stems  downward;  cover  the 
caulitlower  with  a  cuj>ful  of  bread  crumbs,  mixed  with  two 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  and  three  of  cream  or  milk; 
bind  with  a  beaten  egg;  cover  the  dish,  and  bake  six  min 
utes  in  a  quick  oven  ;  brown  in  live  more,  and  serve  hot. 

CAlILIFrO WE RS    WITH    PARMESAX    CHEESE. 

Cleanse  and  boil  the  caulitlowers;  drain  and  dish  them 
with  the  tlowers  upright;  ])our  over  them  a  cupful  of  clar 
itied    or   melted  butter;    si)rinkle  a  quarter  of  a  i)Ound  of 
Parmesan  cheese  over  the  toj) ;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
nutmeg  to  taste;  brown  and  serve. 

BAKE1>    BEANS. 

Soak  three  pints  beans  over  night;  in  the  morning  boil 
in  fresh  water  until  they  begin  to  crack  oi»en.  Put  in  a 
stone  pot  to  bake  with  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  salt  pork; 


86  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 

fill  up  with  water,  in  which  stir  two  tablespoons  of  molasses  ; 
bake  five  or  six  hours,  or  over  night. 

Mrs.  T.  T.  Kichards. 

TO    COOK  STRINO  BEAXS. 

A  large  spoonful  of  lard,  tlirec-fourtlis  spoonful  of  flour, 
two  yolks  of  e^gs,  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk. 
Put  the  lard  iu  a  vessel  on  the  fire,  aud  when  very  hot  mix 
the  fiour  with  it  until  quite  brown;  then  i)ut  the  beans,  witli 
enough  water  to  eook  them,  in  the  mixture;  when  cooked, 
let  them  cool  a  little,  then  add  the  eggs  and  cream,  stirring 
it;  add  i)epper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 

Mrs.  Cornelia  Beer. 

r4>XXECTiri'T  BAKEO  BEAXS. 

Wash  the  beans  and  soak  them  overnight.  In  the  morn- 
ing, [)0ur  ott"  the  water  and  pour  on  fresh  ;  let  them  simmer 
on  the  stove  for  half  an  hour,  changing  the  water  twice: 
j)Our  oii'  the  water  and  turn  them  into  a  saucei)an,  with  a 
piece  of  salt  pork,  and  cook  until  the  beans  are  soft;  score 
the  pork  on  top  and  place  in  the  middle  of  a  deep  baking 
dish;  ])our  the  beans  around  it,  leaving  the  ])ork  a  little 
higher  than  the  beans;  add  enough  of  the  water  they  were 
boiled  in  to  moisten,     l)ake  until  nicely  browned. 

Mrs.  ().  D.   Fillev. 

BOII.F^n  CiREEX  PEAS. 

Wash  the  pods  before  shelling;  then  wash  and  drain  the 
peas  after  they  are  shelled  ;  put  into  a  sauce|)an  the  pods 
and  cook  about  thirty  minutes;  then  «lrain  out  the  pods  and 
put  in  peas  and  cook  twenty  minutes  ;  season  with  salt  and  a 
teaspoon  of  sugar ;  let  them  boil  quickly  over  a  brisk  tire, 
with  the  lid  of  the  saucepan  uncovered.  When  tender  pour 
them  into  a  cullentler ;  put  them  into  a  vegetable  dish,  and 
in  the  centre  of  the  peas  place  a  piece  of  butter.  Mint  may 
be  added  with  the  peas  if  desired. 


VEGETABLES. 


STEWK1>    GRKEX    PEAS. 

Shell  oue  quart  of  i>eas,  add  one  oaiou  and  one  lettuce, 
cut  into  slices:  put  into  a  stew  pan,  with  butter,  i)epper  and 
salt,  but  no  more  water  than  that  which  han^s  around  the 
lettuce  from  washing.  Stew  »>entl,v  for  one  hour;  then  stir 
into  it  a  well  beaten  eg'^-  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
sugar.  When  thickened  serve;  do  not  allow  them  to  boil 
after  the  egg'  is  added. 

C.JREEX  PEAS  A  T.A  FRAXCAISE. 

Shell  enough  peas  to  make  two  quarts;  put  them  in  cold 
water,  with  three  ounces  of  butter,  and  stir  them  about  until 
they  are  well  covered  with  the  butter;  drain  in  a  cullender; 
put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  half  a 
dozen  green  onions;  dredge  over  them  a  little  tlour;  stir  the 
peas  well  and  moisten  with  boiling  water ;  boil  them  quickly 
over  a  hot  tire  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  there  is  no  liquor 
remaining.  Dip  a  small  lum})  of  sugar  into  some  water, 
that  it  may  soon  melt;  put  it  in  with  the  peas,  adding  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut;  work  it  together  with  a  teaspoonful  of  Hour,  and  add 
this  to  the  peas,  which  should  be  boiling  when  it  is  put  in. 
Keep  shaking'  the  stewpan,  and  when  the  ))eas  are  nicely 
thickened  dress  them  in  a  high  dish  and  serve. 


88  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


EGGS 


TO    KEEP    ECJCJS    THROUOlIOrX    THE  WIXTEK. 

Wasli  the  eggs  clean ;  have  a  nice  clean  box  or  butter 
lirkin,  put  a  layer  of  coarse  salt,  place  the  eggs  in  it  with 
small  end  down;  do  not  let  the  eggs  touch  each  other:  then 
another  layer  of  salt,  so  on,  until  you  have  i)a('ked  all  your 
eggs,  making  the  last  layer  of  salt;  keep  your  box  well 
covered.  Miss  K.  L,  Glovkk. 

TO  PRESERVE  ECJOS. 

Rub  each  one  in  salt  butter,  till  every  ])ore  of  the  shell  is 
closed,  then  pack  in  dry  bran  with  the  small  end  down,  and 
put  in  a  cool  jdace.  Fresh  eggs  thus  treated  will  kec})  eight 
or  ten  months. 

TO  KOIfi  ECiiOS. 

Have  ready  a  saucepaji  of  boiling  water;  put  the  eggs 
into  it  gently  with  a  s[)oon,  so  that  they  may  not  crack  ;  for 
those  who  like  eggs  lightly  boiled,  three  minutes  will  be 
found  sutticicnt,  four  minutes  will  set  the  wliites  nicely  ;  and, 
if  liked  hard,  six  to  seven  minutes  will  not  l»e  too  long. 
Eggs  for  salad  should  be  boiled  from  ten  to  tifteen  minutes, 
and  should  be  placed  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  for  a  few 
minutes;  they  should  then  be  rolled  on  the  table  with  the 
hand,  an<l  tlu'  shell  will  ])eel  otf  easily. 

POA<'IIEI>  EGGS. 

Drop  iVesh  eggs  in  boiling  water;  wiien  slightly  cooked 
skim  out  and  lay  on  slic^es  of  buttered  toast ;  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  and  pepper  on  each  egg,  and  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter, before  serving. 


UGG8.  89 


BAK£D    £OCi}S. 

Butter  a  dish  well,  and  break  the  eggs  very  carefully  ou 
it;  put  ou  the  toj)  of  each  a  little  i)ei)per  and  salt,  and  a  lit- 
tle butter,  and  ])ut  them  into  a  slow  oven  until  well  set; 
serve  them  hot. 

FRIKD   EOGS. 

Break  the  eggs  into  cups  and  slip  them  into  a  frying  pan 
of  boiling  dripping  or  butter.  When  the  whites  are  set, 
take  them  up,  drain  them  from  the  grease,  and  trim  otf  the 
rough  edges.  Place  them  in  the  centre  of  the  dish ;  and 
slices  of  fried  bacon  round  the  edge,  or  the  eggs  may  be 
served  on  the  bacon. 

TAiii    OMEliET. 

From  Ave  fresh  eggs  take  the  whites  of  three;  beat  the 
yolks  and  two  whites  until  they  are  very  light;  then  add  a 
half  teacup  of  milk  or  cieam  and  a  little  salt;  have  an 
omelet  pan  hot  with  a  little  butter  in  it,  pour  in  the  eggs; 
when  done  through,  spread  on  the  whites,  well  beaten ; 
brown,  fold  over  the  omelet,  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve 
immediately.  Beating  the  eggs,  as  if  for  cake,  will  prevent 
the  toughness  so  often  found  in  ordinary  omelet. 

Mrs.  W.  Fallon. 

ECilG    OMEI.ET. 

For  a  family  of  three  or  four  persons,  take  about  six  eggs  ; 
beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  very  light,  then  beat 
them  together;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  summer  savory, 
if  liked;  bake  them  on  a  griddle,  a  little  at  a  time,  a  round 
cake,  then  double  over;  serve  quick  and  hot,  as  they  come 
up  so  light  that  they  are  apt  to  fall  if  left  to  cool. 

Mrs.  Richards. 

A  XICE  OMELET  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Beat  two  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together,  in  a  bowl,  until 
very  light ;  add  a  teaspoon  of  corn  starcli,  dissolved  in  a  half 
teaspoon  of  milk  ;  beat  all  well  together,  for  a  few  minutes  ; 


90  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 

a  little  clioi>))e(l  ]niisley  can  be  added  if  wished.  lu  making 
any  kind  of  omelet,  salt  and  pepper  should  not  be  added 
until  sent  to  the  table,  and  to  have  them  perfectly  light,  and 
not  tough,  the  ingre«lients  must  be  well  and  ([uickly  beaten 
with  a  fork.     This  omelet  is  enough  for  three  persons. 

Mrh.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

OMKI.KT. 

Six  eggs  ;  whites  beaten  tp  a  stiff  froth  ;  yolks  well  beaten  ; 
one  teacup  of  warm  milk,  one  tablespoon ful  of  melted  but- 
ter, one  tablesjtoonful  of  tiour,  mix  smoothly  with  a  little  of 
tlie  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  ]»epper;  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  after  the  other  ingredients  are  well 
mixed:  bake  very  (^uick  in  shallow  pans. 

BKEA1>   0:»IEI.ET. 

Two  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  a  cup  of  milk;  six  eggs; 
mash  the  l)read  very  tine,  and  beat  the  eggs  with  it ;  fry,  by 
the  spoonful,  in  butter,  or  bake  in  a  well-biittered  pan  :  when 
it  stiffens,  cut  in  quarters  and  turn. 

0:iIEI.ET. 

One  cui)  of  bread  crumbs  in  one  cuj)  of  milk;  when  soft, 
add  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately:  fry 
tiiem  in  a  little  luitter,  and  roll  them  U|)  as  the}'  brown. 

Mrs.  F.  (t.  Goddard. 

EOC;    OMELET. 

Break  the  eggs  and  use  the  same  quantity  of  milk  (in 
bulk);  if  eight  eggs,  about  two  cui)s  of  milk;  small  piece  of 
melted  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  Hour,  wet  tirst 
in  some  milk  ;  beat  all  together  lightly,  just  enough  to  break 
the  yolks  well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish;  serve  in  the 
same;  should  rise  very  high.  Mrs.  H.  Waterman. 

.SC  RAMBLE  1>  EGiiiN. 

For  a  family  of  six,  mix  eight  eggs  beaten  light,  with  one 
small  half  teacuj*  of  milk;  a  little  salt  and  pepper.     Have  a 


EGOS.  91 

little  hot  lard  or  butter  in  a  skillet;  pour  tliem  in  and  stir 
quickly  to  keep  them  from  burning-;  when  done  serve  in  a 
hot  dish. 

Mix  together  chopped  meat  and  bread  crumbs,  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  butter,  and  a  little  milk;  till  some  buttered 
gem-pans  with  the  mixture;  then  break  an  egg  carefully  on 
the  top  of  each;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
sprinkle  some  very  fine  cracker  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  in 
eight  minutes. 

Lay  some  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  a  hot  dish  before  the 
fireplace;  put  some  butter  and  a  little  salt  in  a  saucepan 
on  the  fire;  break  the  eggs  quickly  on  the  butter,  and  stir 
one  way  with  a  silver  spoon  until  it  solidifies ;  then  remove 
it  from  the  fire,  still  stirring,  and  spread  upon  the  buttered 
toast;  lightly  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

EGGS  OX  T04ST. 

Put  one-half  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  cup  on  the  stove ;  when 
scahling  hot  drop  in  three  eggs,  a  little  salt  ;  stir  them  in  the 
milk,  which  should  be  hot  enough  to  cook  the  eggs  in  a  few 
moments,  and  thicken  up  the  milk.  Spread  on  buttered 
toast.     This  is  a  nice  way  to  cook  eggs  for  an  invalid. 


92.  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 

.^ 


BREAD  AND   BISCUITS. 


POTATO  \KAST. 

TJoil  six  or  eigiit  ])Otatoes  till  soft,  drniti  and  niasli  tlieui 
very  siuootli;  aikl  two-tliirds  of  a  cup  of  tioiii'  aud  taltlc 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Thin  the  mixture  with  cold  water  till  of 
the  cousisten<'y  of  very  thick  batter:  strain  through  a  cul- 
len<ler.  and  when  cool  add  a  snuiU  (nip  of  yeast  and  set  in  a 
warm  jdace  till  light.  Keej)  in  a  stone  Jar  with  cover.  A 
small  cup  of  this  yeast  is  sufHcient  to  raise  two  (piarts  of 
Hour.  :Mrs,  J.  M.  Kki  M. 

YKAST. 

One  handful  of  hoi>s,  eight  good  sized  ])Otatoe8  in  two 
(piarts  of  water;  boil  until  the  potatoes  are  dotie.  Have  a 
])int  of  Hour  ready  in  a  pan,  and  pour  the  boiling  hop  water 
into  it,  also  adding  the  ])otatoe8,  whicli  must  be  mashed: 
beat  and  mix  well:  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one 
tablespoonfnl  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger;  when 
lukewarm  add  a  cuj)  of  yeast,  or  one  and  a  half  yeast  cakes  ; 
set  in  a  waim  place  to  rise. 

MKS.  M.  a.  FlLLKl  c^  .Mks.  W.  .Mairice. 

KREAl). 

It  is  almost  impossible  to  give  the  ]>roportions  for  making 
bi'ead,  as  each  family  must  in  some  measure  be  governeil  l)y 
the  <iuantity  and  numb«*r  of  loaves  they  will  need.  The  fol- 
lowing juoportions  may  be  some  guide:  Take  two  gallons 
best  wheat  Hour,  sift  into  a  pan  or  a  large  wooden  bowl 
kei>t  for  that  purpose  ;  make  a  deep  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
Hour;  have  ready  half  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water,  in  winter 
it  may  be  a  little  warmer,  but  not  hot  or  boiling;  stir  it  well 


BREAD  AND  BISCUITS.  93 


into  half  a  piut  of  strong  fresh  yeast  (if  the  yeast  is  home 
made  you  must  use  from  three-quarters  to  a  whole  pint); 
pour  it  into  the  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  Hour;  with  a  spoon 
work  in  the  Hour  round  the  edges  of  the  liquid,  so  as  to 
bring  in,  by  degrees,  sutticient  Hour  to  form  a  thin  batter, 
which  must  be  well  stirred  for  a  minute  or  two  ;  then  scatter 
a  handful  of  Hour  over  this  batter ;  lay  a  cloth  over  the  pan  ; 
set  it  in  a  warm  place.  This  is  called  sponge.  In  the 
morning  when  the  si)onge  is  risen  so  as  to  make  cracks  in 
the  Hour  over  it  (which  will  take  four  or  live  hours),  scatter 
over  it  two  tablesi)Oonfuls  of  salt,  and  have  ready  one  large 
tablesi)Oonful  of  melted  lard  ;  add  about  two  quarts  of  either 
milk  or  water,  warm,  but  not  hot  enough  to  scald  the  yeast, 
and  Kutticient  to  wet  it;  be  careful  not  to  put  in  too  much 
milk  or  water  at  once ;  knead  the  whole  thoroughly  for  as 
much  as  half  an  hour,  as  good  bread  depends  much  on  the 
kneading,  which  to  do  well  requires  strength  and  practice; 
when  suiiiciently  worked,  form  the  dough  into  a  lump  in  the 
middle  of  the  pan,  scatter  a  little  tlour  thinly  over  the  top, 
cover  it;  set  it  again  to  rise;  then  put  your  dough  on  your 
pastry  board  (which  must  be  sprinkled  with  tlour),  divide 
into  loaves ;  work  into  good  shape ;  have  your  pans  nicely 
greased  with  lard,  i>ut  your  loaves  in,  cover  with  your  bread 
cloth,  and  let  them  rise;  when  light  enough,  put  them  in  the 
oven,  which  must  not  be  too  hot:  the  loaves,  to  bake  well, 
will  take  from  two  to  three  hours,  according  to  the  size: 
when  the  loaves  are  done,  wra])  each  in  a  clean  (!oarse  towel, 
])reviously  made  damp  by  sprinkling  plentifully  with  water, 
then  stand  them  upon  end  to  cool  slowly.  Bread  should 
always  be  ke])t  wrapped  in  a  cloth  and  covered  from  the  air 
in  a  box  with  a  close  lid.  If  the  bread  has  been  mixed  over 
night,  and  found  on  tasting  to  be  sour  in  the  morning,  dis- 
solve a  teaspooonful  of  soda  in  a  little  milk- warm  water, 
and  sprinkle  it  over  the  dough;  let  it  set  half  an  hour,  then 
knead  it. 

If  you  wish  biscuit  in  the  morning,  take  the  sam(»  (juan- 
tities  as  above,  going  through  the  same  process,  and  add  the 
salt  and  lard;  work   the  dough  well;  let  it  rise  over  night. 


94  MY  MO THER 'S  COOK  BOOK. 

In  the  moruiug  kneading  your  bread,  take  out  what  is 
wanted  for  biscuit,  roll  out  the  dough  and  cut  in  biscuit 
shape ;  put  them  in  a  pan,  set  l)y  the  stove  to  rise ;  when  light, 
j)ut  in  your  oven  and  bake  ;  then  take  the  rest  of  the  dough, 
work  more  ilour  into  it;  make  into  loaves. 

I'ARKER  HOUSE   ROLLS. 

Take  two  quarts  of  wheat  tiour;  make  a  hole  in  the  cen- 
tre; put  in  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt,  a 
tablespoonful  white  sugar;  pour  over  this  a  pint  of  nearly 
cold  boiled  milk  with  half  a  teacup  of  yeast.  When  well 
raised  mould  it  fifteen  minutes  and  let  it  rise  again ;  then 
cut  into  cakes  and  rise ;  when  light,  tlatten  each  with  the 
rolling  pin  ;  ])ut  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  and  fold  over, 
or  simply  rnb  with  butter  if  made  in  a  long  shape;  then  put 
into  the  pans  and  rise  a  little  more  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  N.  W.  Perkins. 

LICJIIT  ROLLS. 

One  quart  of  tiour,  one  half  j>int  of  milk  that  has  been 
boiled  and  cooled,  half  a  tcaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  piece  of 
butter  half  the  size  of  a  hen\s  egg,  half  a  cuj)  of  potato 
yeast,  small  pinch  of  salt.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  a 
family  of  six.  If  recjuired  for  breakfast,  i)ut  the  ingredients 
in  a  pan,  on  the  afternoon  i)revious,  in  the  following  order: 
First  the  tiour,  making  a  hole  in  the  centre  of  it,  in  which 
l)ut  the  butter,  sugar,  salt  and  milk,  and  lastly  the  yeast. 
Set  the  pan  away  without  stirring  the  ingredients  until  bed- 
time; then  mix,  mould  and  knead  on  the  board  for  fifteen 
minutes;  let  the  dough  rise  until  morning,  when  knead  it 
again  for  a  few  minutes:  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut 
with  a  biscuit  cutter;  turn  over  one  corner,  i)utting  a  little 
butter  utuler  it.  Piit  the  rolls  in  a  pan,  not  too  close  together, 
and  let  them  rise  for  an  hour  or  more  until  perfectly  light, 
and  bake  in  a  (juick  oven  tifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Krum. 


BREAD  AND  BISCUITS.  95 


FRENCH  ROIiLS. 

Two  quarts  of  tlour,  oue  tablespoonfiil  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoouful  of  salt;  put  all  in  the 
centre  of  Hour,  and  pour  over  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  ;  let 
stand  until  lukewarm ;  dissolve  one-half  a  yeast  cake  in  a 
little  milk,  and  stir  in  the  milk,  but  do  not  disturb  the  flour; ' 
let  stand  until  it  comes  up  light:  then  stir  all  up  together, 
and  let  rise  again;  then  roll  and  cut  out  with  cutter;  butter 
the  top  and  turn  one  side  over  the  other;  put  in  pans  and 
let  rise  again  ;  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  F.  a.  Durgin. 

EdCi  BISCUIT. 

Three  quarts  of  Hour,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  bul 
ter,  one   and  a  half  of  lard,  one  teacup  of  yeast ;  mix  with 
warm  milk  or  water;  set  to  rise  in  the  evening;  in  the  morn- 
ing roll  out;  let  them  rise  before  baking. 

Mrs.  S.  D.  Glover. 

FRENCH  BISCUIT. 

Four  pints  of  tiour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teacup  of  yeast,  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  salt;  knead  well,  and  let  it  rise  ;  when  (piite  light, 
roll  thin  ;  grease  one-half  of  the  surface  with  lard  or  butter  ; 
fold  the  other  half  over  it,  and  cut  into  biscuits;  let  it  rise 
again  about  one  hour,  in  a  warm  place,  and  bake  quickly. 

COFFEE  BREAD. 

Three  (|uarts  of  tiour,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  butter, 
one  of  lard,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  currants,  teacup  of 
yeast;  mix  all  together  with  milk  soft  enough  to  work  well  ; 
the  thinner  it  is  the  better;  water  will  do  if  you  have  not 
the  milk;  both  must  be  warm ;  set  to  rise.  Jn  the  morning 
roll  it  out  in  thin  cakes  ;  let  them  rise ;  before  putting  them 
in  the  oven  mix  some  sugar  and  cinnamon  together ;  have 
some  hot  melted  butter  and  pour  it  on  the  cakes,  then 
sprinkle  the  sugar  over  it.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  S.  D.  GLoviiiR. 


96  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


APPLE  OR  PEACH   BREAI>. 

Before  kneadiug  your  (IoukIi  take  out  what  quantity  you 
wish,  as  it  ought  not  to  be  as  stiii"  as  bread  dough ;  roll  thin 
size  of  your  i)an  ;  let  it  rise;  when  light,  spread  with  melted 
butter.  Have  some  nicp  juicy  apples  i)ared  and  sliced  very 
thin;  lay  a  thick  layer  of  apples  sprinkled  Avell  with  sugar 
an<l  cinnamon;  set  it  in  the  oven  to  bake.  Fresh  peaches 
may  be  done  in  the  same  way  without  the  cinnamon. 

Miss  E.  L.  Glover. 

<OKX    KREAD. 

One  (luart  of  corn  meal,  little  salt,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
butter  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

KKOWX  BREA1>. 

One  (juart  of  unbolted  Hour,  three  tablesi)oonfuls  of 
molasses,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three-fourths  of  a 
pint  of  butter  milk;  stir  thoroughly  and  bake  two  hours, 
the  oven  not  too  hot. 

OR  All  AH  KKKA1>. 

Two  (juarts  of  Graham  Hour,  tAvo  coffee-cups  of  goblen 
syrui),  «^lt?  'i"*^  i)otato  yeast  enough  to  make  it  the  right 
consistency;  sift  the  Hour,  to  make  it  light,  and  i>nt  the  bran 
back  in  the  Hour,  tossing  it  uj)  thoroughly  with  the  salt, 
before  adding  the  other  arti<-Ies;  the  potato  yeast  must  be 
of  the  best,  and  put  in  enough  to  make  the  luead  without 
adding  any  water;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  hand — the 
dough  should  not  be  stiff  enougli  to  knead,  neither  thin 
enough  to  pour  out  like  cake,  but  between  tlie  two — i>ut  it 
in  tlu'  i)an  in  wiii<'li  it  is  to  be  baked,  and  wlien  it  is  well 
risen,  bake  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  For  the  al)ove  recei|)t 
I  have  a  round  block  tin  ])an,  that  holds  four  aiul  one-half 
(piarts;  the  dough  should  lise  <iuite  to  the  top.  This  bread, 
like  all  nice  things,  requires  several  trials  to  get  it  Just  right, 
but  when  it  is  rif/ht,  it  nuikes,  with  a  good  cup  of  cottee,  a 
breakfast  tit  for  a  king..  3Iks.  W.  Fallon. 


BREAD  A XI)  BItSGUITS. 


BOSTON    BROWX    BREAI>. 

Three  cups  of  Graham  tiour  with  bran,  three  cup8  of 
Indiau  meal,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  a  little  salt,  three  table- 
spoons of  yeast,  mixed  with  three  aud  a  half  cups  of  luke- 
warm water ;  let  it  rise  about  two  hours,  or  uutil  light,  then 
add  one  teaspoouful  of  saleratus,  and  baketive  hours,  the  last 
three  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven.      Mrs.  D.  R,   Powell. 

BUNS. 

Three  cups  sweet  milk,  one  cuj)  white  sugar,  one  cup 
yeast ;  mix  a  little  thicker  than  for  batter  cakes  ;  put  to  rise 
over  night;  in  the  morning  add  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cu]) 
of  sugar,  one  nutmeg,  one  tablespoouful  of  extract  of  lemon, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  mix  hard  to  mould ;  set  to  rise ; 
then  mould  and  put  into  pans  and  let  rise  again.  Beat  up 
an  egg  and  brush  them  over  with  it  before  baking.  Make  the 
buns  the  size  of  a  small  biscuit.        Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

RUSKS. 

Two  teacups  of  milk,  one  teacup  of  yeast,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg;  stir  in  the  Hour  and  let  it  rise;  then  add 
two  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  beat  well  together,  then  let 
it  rise  again ;  then  roll  out  and  cut  in  small  cakes  for  the 
oven.  Mrs.  G.  F.  Filley. 

MRS.  R.'S    RUSKS. 

One  pint  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cu[> 
of  butter;  set  with  a  little  yeast  the  evening  before  making. 
Next  day  take  four  eggs,  another  cup  of  sugar,  and^tlour 
enough ;  make  in  form  of  bis<;uit  and  bake  for  sui)per. 

MUFFINS. 

One  <piart  tlour,  one  pint  sweety  milk,  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  home-made  yeast,  one  tablespoouful  sugar,  a  little 
salt;  set  to  rise  at  night;  in  the  morning  add  two  tabh'- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter.  Fill  the  pans  and  let  it  staiul  a 
short  time  before  baking;  it  is  important  to  add  the  butter 
after  rising.  Mrs.  S.  A.  Ranlett. 

7 


98  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


One  (iiiart  of  tiour,  tM'o  eji'.ys,  a  full  tablespoon  of  l>utter, 
two  tablespoons  of  yeast,  and  milk  sntticient  to  make  a  very 
slift'  batter,  stiff  enough  to  let  a  spoon  stand  u])  in  it;  beat 
very  light  and  set  to  rise;  drop  them  one  spoonl'ul  inai)lace 
and  l)ake  quickly. 

RYE  MUFFIIVS. 

One  quart  tlour,  two  cups  rye  meal,  one  half  cuj)  yeast, 
salt;  mix  with  water  to  a  very  thick  batter;  one-half  tea- 
si)oon  soda  (dissolved),  well  beaten  in,  after  it  is  raised. 
Bake  in  rings.  Mrs.  AV.  Maurice. 

I>EI.ICATE    COK.V  5IIIFFIXS. 

Two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  white  sugar,  l>eaten  together; 
add  three  cups  tiour  with  two  teaspoons  yeast  j)owdcr  sifted 
through  it,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  Indian  meal,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  tables]>oon  of  melted  butter,  a  little  salt.  IJake 
i]i  hoi  iron  roll  pans,  well  buttered,  tifteen  minutes.  This 
will  make  one  dozen.  Mrs.  E.  S.  Frost,  Boston. 

GRAHAM   FI.OI  R  MrFFIlVS. 

To  a  i)int  of  sour  milk  add  soda  suliiciejit  to  correct  the 
acid  onl.N,  a  little  salt,  oiu'  tabIes])oonful  of  while  sugar; 
use  Iwo-lhirds  Graham  tiour  to  omvthird  white  tiour;  stir 
into  the  milk  sulhcienl  to  uuike  a  batter  a  litlb'  thii-ker  than 
lor  griddle  cakes;  beat  thoroughly,  ;in<l  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
2\.  B. — Heat  the  bake-i)ans  hot  before  tilling. 

Mrs.  S.  a.  liA^■LETT. 

MIFFIBTS. 

To  one  (|uart  o^i  milk  put  in  one  taltiespoonrul  (,>f  l>ullcr, 
and  pul  on  Ihe  stove  to  warm,  then  add  one  hall"  teacup  of 
yeast,  a  little  salt  and  tiour  to  make  stiff;  let  it  stand  until 
morning,  then  [)ut  into  rings;  let  it  stantl  a  few  moments, 
tiuMi  bake.  Mrs.  C.  B.  Richards. 


BREAD  AND  BISCUITS.  99 

SOUK  mrit  MUFFixs. 

One  and  a  hall"  ])ints  sonr  milk,  three  tal>lesi>oonfnls  Inil- 
ter  (melted),  one  tablespoonlnl  white  sn}>av,  one  teaispoonful 
soda,  two  estis,  ei^iit  pints  Hour.         Mrs.  W.  Maurice. 

MUFFINS. 

One  (juart  of  Hour,  one  ej-^',  three  tablespoonluls  of  suj^ar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  or  a  piece  ol  butter  half  the 
size  of  an  ej^ji",  milk  enough  to  make  a  l)atter  soft  as  ]»an- 
cakes,  one  tea8i)Oonfnl  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  (ueam 
of  tartar;  bake  quickly.  Mrs.  T.  T.  Riohards. 

MUFFIXS. 

Two  eggs  beaten  together  light,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  and  a 
half  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  tlour  enough  to  make 
a  batter  about  as  stitt*  as  cake,  two  teasi>oonfuls  of  yeast 
powder,  a  i)iece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Maggie  P^'anxNING. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  a  coffee-cup  of  milk,  two  teas])oonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  one  teaspoonfulof  soda,  Hour  enough  to  make  a  thick 
batter;  bake  in  a  quick  oven.       Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer. 

S.iI.L.Y  lA  NN. 

lieat  three  eggs  very  light,  one  pint  of  warm  milk,  half  a 
teacup  of  butter,  half  a  teacup  of  yeast,  two  pints  of  tlour, 
one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt;  beat  well  together,  and 
pour  into  a  buttered  pan  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked;  when 
light  bake  with  a  quick  heat.  You  can  add  to  this  a  teacui) 
of  sugar  if  (^lesired.  Mrs.  T.  J.  Albright,  Kirkwood. 

GRAHAM    KOM.S. 

Mix  si)ouge  of  white  Hour  at  night:  in  the  morning  add 
one  teacup  of  milk,,  one  tables}»oonful  of  butter,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one-iialf  white  flour,  one-half  Graham, 
with  bran;  mix,  knead  and  rise  until  light;  roll  out,  spread 
liglitly  wiili  butter,  make  in  rolls,  and  bake  when  light. 

Mrs.  D.  K.  Powell. 


100  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


ORAHAM   ROLIiS. 

One  (iiiait  of  Graham  tioiir,  one  pint  of  wheat  Hour,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  half 
cup  of  yeast,  water  enough  to  make  stiff  as  ])ound-cake ;  set 
to  rise  over  night;  bake  in  little  pound-cake  tins  twenty 
minutes.  Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

SODA    RISC  IIT. 

One  quart  of  tlour,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  one  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar ;  use  suf- 
ficient milk  to  make  a  soft  dough,  about  one-half  pint.  If 
nuide  with  sour  milk,  leave  out  the  cream  of  tartar. 

CREAM  RISCl  IT. 

Four  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk;  a  piece  of  butter  as  large 
as  an  egg,  a  little  salt,  sixteen  tablespoons  of  tlo'ur;  beat 
your  eggs  very  light;  bake  in  teacups  or  patty-pans.  To  be 
eaten  hot. 

RRl<;iITO\  BIStriT. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  beaten 
to  a  cream,  one  cup  of  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  Hour  enough  to  roll  very  thin  ;  sift  sugar 
over  them  and  bake  in  a  <juick  oven. 

BOLT   RIM  I  IT. 

One  pound  of  tlour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  about  as  nuicli  as  a 
good  si/A'd  teaspoon  will  do  for  a  cake.  .Mrs.  Hkock. 

CAKES   wirilOl  T   ECi<iS. 

Five  cups  of  Hour,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  nut- 
meg; make  up  with  milk,  and  work  in  a  biscuit  break  till 
it  blisters  ;  add  a  desert  spoon  of  soda. 

RE  AT   RISC' HIT. 

One  quart  of  tlour,  two  tablespoons  of  lard,  a  little  milk  ; 
beat  or  pound  with  a  roller  thoroughly  until  very  light ;  add 
salt. 


BREAD  AND  BISCUITS.  101 


Three  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  oue  cup  yeast; 
thickeu  with  Hour,  like  batter;  rise  till  very  light,  theu  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  cup  more  of  sugar,  oue  cup  of 
melted  butter;  thickeu  to  the  cousisteucy  of  biscuit,  scatter 
iu  a  few  currants;  rise  again,  roll  ont;  make  them  about 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick ;  cut  iu  squares,  put  them 
into  your  pan,  and  let  them  rise  again.  C.  G.  Hill. 

DIXIE  BISCUIT.  "DEI^iriOlTS.*' 

Three  pints  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  lard, 
one  cup  of  yeast,  oue  cup  of  milk;  mix  at  eleven  o'clock, 
roll  out  at  four  o'clock,  and  cut  with  two  sizes  of  cutters, 
putting  the  smaller  one  on  top  ;  let  rise  until  supper.  Bake 
twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  F.  A.  Lane. 

MILK  BISnilT.  "SPIiEXDID.-' 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard,  one 
teacup  of  yeast,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  pint  of  milk  ; 
make  a  soft  dough,  and  set  at  ten  o'clock ;  stir  at  three ;  at 
five,  mould  into  biscuit,  adding  more  flour;  let  rise  until 
supper.     Bake  twenty  miuutes.  Mbs.  F.  A.  Lane. 

POP-OVERS. 

Four  eggs  beaten  hard  three  minutes  in  one  quart  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  stir  in  nine  pop-over  cups  of  flour; 
beat  all  well,  and  Anally  add  another  pint  of  milk;  to  this 
last  pint  of  milk  you  may  add  a  teacup  of  boiled  rice  ;  ])Our 
into  cups  half  full  of  batter;  start  with  a  very  hot  oven; 
one  hour  to  bake,  and  serve  instantly. 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Chapman. 

PUFFS,  OR  POP-OVERS. 

Four  cups  of  milk,  four  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  a  little 
salt ;  bake  half  an  hour,  and  let  stand  in  the  oven  with  door 
open  another  half  hour;  fill  the  cups  about  half  full. 

Mrs.  Price. 


102  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


TEA  CAKE. 

One  quait  of  tlour,  a  little  salt,  break  four  eg'^s  into  the 
Hour,  a  small  cup  of  melted  butter,  two  tables}>ooiifuls  of 
powdered  sujiar,  three  jiills  of  milk;  bake  one  hour  in  small 
cui)S.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer. 

SOFT   CAKE. 

Three  epps,  one  pint  of  milk,  salt,  tlour  sufficient  to  make 
a  thick  batter;  bake  in  two  cakes;  sj^lit  and  butter  while 
hot;  lay  tlu'  brown  side  a^iainst  the  buttered,  so  as  to  soften 
the  crust.  JNlRS.  Wm.  Mai'RTOK. 

SHORT  <  AKE. 

Six  cuj^s  of  tionr,  two  cu])s  of  milk,  two  ej»"gs  beaten  and 
mixed  in  the  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egj»,  half 
a  cup  of  sufiar,  two  teasi)Oonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one 
teaspoon ful  of    soda,  a  little  salt. 

SHORT  (  AKE. 

One  (juart  of  tiour.  two  teaspoonfnls  of  yeast  i>owder 
mixed  with  the  Hour,  a  lar<>e  tablespoouful  of  luitter,  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough;  bake  (juickly,  split  oi)en,  butter  and 
add  fiiiit,  mixed  with  sugar. 

l>ROP  CAKES. 

One  (juart  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs  well  beateu.  one 
<|uart  of  Hour,  a  little  salt  :  bake  in  gem  pans,  in  a  hot  oven  ; 
heat  the  i)ans  before  using.  Mrs.  D.  V.  Young. 

KIRKWOOO   PFFFS. 

Four  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  very 
light  ;  one  (pmrt  of  sweet  cream,  or  one  (puirt  of  milk,  and 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three  teaspoonfnls  of  Price's  cream 
baking  powder,  one  half  a  teas])Oon  of  salt,  and  twenty 
tablespoonfuls  of  tlour.  Mrs.  M.  A.  Gardner. 


BREAD  AND  BISCUIT ;S.  1(K5 


IWDIAX  Clip  CAKE. 

One  i)int  of  milk,  tliree-iburtlis  of  a  pint,  of  wheat  tlour, 
one-fovirth  of  a  pint  of  corn  meal,  two  eggs,  a  tableKpoonful 
of  bntter,  a  little  salt;  bake  tliree-quarters  of  an  lionr,  in 
cups  tliat  have  been  warmed.  Mrs.  Ohas.  Jones. 

CORX  CAKES. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  «|uart  of  soar  milk,  one 
large  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  eup  of  Hour,  a  little  salt  and 
sugar;  beat  in  enough  corn  meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Makes  two  dozen,  mnftin  sha])e. 

Mrs.  Palmer  Hampton. 

WHEAT    GE:»IS. 

Five  cups  of  Hour,  one  <|uart  of  milk,  two  eggs,  very 
little  salt;  bake  in  gem-pan,  heating  the  pan  before  tilling, 

SPANISH  BUIVS. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  ])ound  of 
Hour,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  two  and 
one-half  wine  glasses  of  cream  ;  beat  the  cream  and  butter 
while  warm,  add  the  sugar,  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  Hour, 
then  the  whites;  dissolve  a  tal)les])Oon  of  yeast  powder  in 
a  wine-glass  of  rosewater,  and  add  Just  before  putting  into 
the  oveu. 

CENTER  HARBOR  CAKES. 

Take  three  eggs,  beat  them  very  light,  separately,  beat 
in  Hour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter;  add  salt  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  half  an  ('fi}x;  then  take  a  pint  of  milk 
and  some  Hour,  and  add  them  alternately,  until  you  make  a 
batter  almost  as  thick  as  for  muftins;  have  one  of  AV'ater- 
man's  patent  i)ans  for  baking  batter  cake,  warmed  and 
greased.  It  will  take  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  to 
bake  them.  Mrs.  Hugh  Campbell. 


104  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


AITNIE'S  WAFFI.es. 

Take  two  eggs,  oue  quart  of  tiour,  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  a 
little  salt;  mix  very  lightly,  bake  in  wafHe  irons;  muftins 
can  be  made  as  above,  only  a  little  thicker,  and  add  a  si)Oon- 
ful  of  sujiar  and  bake  in  the  oven  in  rinjis. 

WAFFLES. 

One  tablespoon  of  lard  melted  in  a  tin  i)an  on  the  stove; 
when  liot,  not  scalding,  stir  in  oue  tablespoon  of  corn  meal; 
when  cold,  stir  in  one  quart  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  so«la, 
one  pint  of  tiour  with  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  one  egg, 
salt,  a  thin  batter;  add  more  tiour  if  necessary.  Have  tlie 
wattle  iron  hot.  Mrs.  D.  T.  Wales. 

waffi.es. 

Six  eggs,  one  (juart  of  milk,  one-fourth  pound  of  butter, 
one-fourth  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one  and  a  half  pounds 
of  tiour,  one  teaspoon  of  powdered  cinnamon  ;  warm  the 
milk  slightly;  cut  up  the  butter  in  it  and  stir  it  a  little;  beat 
the  eggs  well  and  pour  them  into  the  butter  and  milk,  and 
si)rinkle  in  half  the  Hour  gradually;  stir  in  the  sugar  by 
degrees.  Mrs,  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

BATTER  CAKES. 

One  coifee-cu])  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten  (either 
se])arately  or  together),  tiour  suflicient  to  make  a  good  bat- 
ter; just  before  baking  add  one  teasi)Oon  of  soda,  dissolved 
in  a  little  water. 

CORN  MEAIi  GRIDI>I.E  CAKES. 

One  pint  of  meal  mixed  with  four  teaspoonfuls  of  Hour, 
one  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
and  two  of  cream  tartar.  It  is  much  nicer  to  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  very  light,  and  to  stir  them  in  the  last  minute 
before  baking. 


BREAD  ANT)   BISCUITS.  105 


Br€K WHEAT  CAKEI^. 

Two  liandfuls  of  corn  meal  mixed  with  about  one  (jiiart 
warm  water,  and  not  quite  one-half  cup  of  yeast,  two  table- 
siH)ous  molasses,  a  little  salt,  and  buckwheat  to  stiffen  pretty 
stiff;  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise ;  mix  in  an  earthen  (rrock 
an<i  leave  some  in  the  bottom  to  serve  as  a  si)onge  for  the 
next  morning  instead  of  getting  fresh  yeast. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Richards. 

N^l  ASH  ORII>I>I.E  CAKES. 

One  eu])  s(inash  (strained),  one  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  salt,  • 
one  teaspoon  sugar,  piece  of  soda  size  of  a  pea  ;  flour  enough 
to  make  a  batter  not  very  stiff      Mrs.  T.  T.  Riohards. 

RICE  CAKES. 

Have  your  rice  thoroughly  boiled,  then  make  a  batter  of 
two  eggs  beat  up  light,  one  ])int  of  sweet  milk,  tlour  enough 
to  stiffen  not  very  stiff",  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one 
of  cream  of  tartar,  then  stir  in  rice  enough  to  stiffen  well, 
ami  beat  u]>  with  a  fork. 

COB:Rf  CAKES. 

One  egg,  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  corn  meal  ;  stir  the  soda  with  the  e^g^  then  add  the 
milk,  and  last  the  tlour  and  a  little,  salt;  bake  on  griddles. 

STAtE  BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Take  stale  bread,  soak  it  in  water  until  soft;  strain  oft" 
the  water  through  a  cullender;  beat  the  bread  crumbs 
lightly  with  a  fork;  to  one  quart  of  the  soaked  crumbs  add 
one  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  tlour,  and  four  eggs;  bake 
on  a  griddle. 

ItlOI  K  BrCK WHEAT  CAKES. 

^wo-thirds  of  a  cup  of  yeast,  two  quarts  of  batter  made 
of  warm  water  and  wheat  Hour  stirred  together  the  inght 
before,  same  as  buckwheat;  add  a  small  pinch  of  soda  in 
the  morning. 


IOC  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK, 


ORFEX  <  OR\  «R11>DI.E  CAKES. 

Twelve  ears  of  coin,  to  be  cut  off  and  elioi>i>ed  line,  two 
cups  of  niilU,  one  en])  of  tlonr,  thiee  e<;^B  and  salt. 

PEA  FRITTERS. 

Cook  a  pint  nioie  peas  than  yon  need  foi'  dinner;  niasli 
wiiile  liot  witli  a  woo<len  spoon;  put  by  until  nioruin;^  ;  make 
a  batter  of  two  whii)ped  eggs,  a  cupful  of  milk,  (|uarter  of  a 
leaspoonfnl  of  soda,  lialf  a  teas])Oonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
and  half  a  cup  of  tiour  ;  stir  the  pea  mixture  into  this,  beating- 
very  hard,  and  cook  like  ordinary  griddle  cakes. 

MRS.  WH.SO>*S   C  ORN  BREAD. 

One  quart  of  corn  meal,  one  spoonful  of  lard,  scald  with 
boiling  water;  stir  well  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  a  little  soda  in  sour  milk  enough  to  make  thin 
batter,  or  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder  with  sweet  milk. 

MRS.  ST01>I>AR1>-S  CORN  BREA1>. 

Three  eggs,  one  cuj)  of  milk,  two  teas})oonfuls  baking 
powder,  mixed  in  a  little  milk,  two  cui)s  corn  meal,  one  cup 
soft  boiled  rice,  a  little  salt.  Initter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
Bake  in  a  <iuick  ov«mi. 

BAX\0<  K. 

Scant  i)int  of  corn  meal,  one  quart  of  milk,  six  eggs  and  a 
little  salt;  scald  half  the  milk  and  mix  with  the  nu^al  while 
hot;  add  the  other  half  cobi;  to  this  add  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  bake  three-<iuarters  of  an  hour. 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE. 

One  small  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  and  yolks 
of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  cream,  one  teasi)oon  even  full  of 
soda  dissolved  in  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sweet  milk,  and  Hour 
enough  for  <'ake  batter,  with  two  teas])Oonfnls  of  <'ream  of 
tartar  in  the  Hour,  then  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  t\>  a 
stitf  froth:  dre<lg«'  a  (piart  of  blueberries  or  huckleberries 
and  stir  into  the  mixture  jnst  before  putting  into  the  baking 
pan;  bake  quickly.  Mks.  V.  U.  Richards. 


BREAD  AND  BISCUITS.  101 


l>UTrH  TOAST. 

One  ])iiit  ol'  milk  and  two  eggs,  sweeten;  add  a  little  nut- 
meg; cut  in  thin  slices  baker's  bread;  dip  in  tlic  custard 
and  fry  brown.  Me8.  W.  H.  Pui.sifkh. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

One  quart  of  Hour,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  two  teaspoonfnls  of  yeast  powder,  milk 
enough  to  make  a  batter,  and  bake  in  Jelly-cake  i)ans;  when 
done,  butter,  and  i)ut  fresh  strawberries  between  the  layers 
of  cake,  and  sjtrinkle  each  with  sugar. 

Mr8.  Joseph  Shippen. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

Make  a  dough  the  same  as  for  soda  biscuit;  roll  it  thin, 
the  size  of  your  jelly-cake  ))ans;  bake  it,  and  when  done 
0])en  the  cakes  and  butter  both  the  inside  and  outside  layers  : 
have  your  strawberries  nicely  ])icked  and  sugared  before 
you  prei)nre  the  dough,  in  order  to  have  plenty  of  Juice  ,- 
spread  your  berries  in  both  the  upper  and  lower  layer,  put- 
ting one  layer  on  top  of  the  other;  set  it  again  in  tbe  oven 
for  a  few  moments,  not  long  enough  to  cook  the  berries. 

Mrs.  E,  L.  Glover. 

WHORTLEBERRY  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
s])oonful  ol  butter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoouful  of  soda;  flour 
as  stiff  as  ordinary  cake:  as  many  berries  as  you  ])lease, 
nearly  a  «juart  to  this  rule.  Mrs.  T.  T.  Eiohards. 

BOSTON  BROWIV  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  coin  meal,  one  cup  of  rye  meal,  one  (uip  of 
tloui',  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
teaspoouful  of  soda;  mix  to  a  stiff  batter,  with  sour  milk; 
jjut  it  in  a  tin  i>ail,  cover  tightly,  and  boil  in  a  pot  of  water 
four  hours.  Mrs.  E.  P.  Pettes. 


108  MY  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 


BOSTON'  BROWN  BREAD. 

Three  cups  of  yellow  corn  meal,  two  and  one  half  cnps  of 
rye  meal,  both  unsifted,  one  cup  of  hot  water,  tliree  cups  of 
new  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  stir  well;  steam  three  and  one-half 
hours.  Mrs.  H.  X.  Davis. 

STEADIED  BROWX  BREAD. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal,  one  half  pint  of  rye,  three  cups  of 
milk,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder,  little  salt ; 
steam  two  and  one-half  hours,  then  set  in  oven  one-half  an 
hour.     Eat  while  hot.  Mrs.  Dergans. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

Three  cups  of  corn  meal,  two  cups  of  rye  meal,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  (juart  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  steam 
three  hours.  When  coarse  rye  cannot  be  obtained,  use  stale 
bread,  <'hoi)ped  tine,  in  about  equal  quantities,  with  the  corn 
meal.  Miss  Eliza  Freeborn. 

BOII.ED  BREAD. 

(TO  BE  EATEN  WARM,  WITH  ROAST  MEATS,  AT  DINNER.) 

One  cup  of  Graham  Hour,  two  cups  of  corn  meal,  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  teaspoon  of  salt,  tablespoon  of  molasses, 
]>int  and  a  half  of  sour  milk;  boil  in  mould  three  hours, 
closely  covered.  Same  can  be  made  with  sweet  milk  and 
yeast  powder.  Mrs.  Wells. 


PUDDIXGS.  109 


PUDDINGS. 


Oue  vsqiiare  loaf  of  baker's  bread  (weight  about  ten 
ounces),  cut  in  tbiu  slices,  with  crusts  trimmed  off,  aud  but- 
tered ou  both  sides.  Sprinkle  the  bottom  of  a  stone  crock 
with  line  layer  raisins,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  the  buttered 
bread,  cover  with  a  layer  of  raisins,  clean  dried  currants 
and  citron  cut  tine,  some  Xew  Orleans  brown  sugar,  a  little 
ground  nutmeg',  cinnamon,  and  a  very  little  cloves;  fill  your 
crock  until  within  an  inch  of  the  top,  making  the  top  layer 
of  bread.  Then  take  three  pints  of  milk,  let  it  come  to  a 
boil  in  a  milk  boiler,  add  to  it  six  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cui) 
of  sugar,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  pint  of  molasses; 
pour  over  the  pudding  and  thoroughly  mix  by  cutting 
through  to  the  bottom  with  a  knife ;  bake  three  hours  in  a 
slow  oven,  let  stand  an  hour,  keeping  hot,  before  turning 
upside   down  into  the  pudding  dish.      Served  with  sauce. 

ElCHARDS. 
STEAM   PI.UM    Pll>I>I\Ci}. 

One  cup  of  suet  chopped  tine,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cu]) 
of  currants,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron,  one  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  soda,  salt,  cloves,  allspice,  ginger;  one-half  of  a 
nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  Hour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff"  batter.     Steam  three  hours. 

Sauce. — Half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolk 
of  one  egg,  beaten  to  a  cream,  one  glass  of  wine;  heat  it 
slowly:  when  ready  for  the  table  beat  the  white  of  the  egg 
very  light,  and  put  it  on  top  of  the  sauce. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Moore. 


lip  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


BAKF.i>  EAGi.isii  prrM  Pri>l>I]VG. 

()no-«luarter  of  a  pomid  of  suet  chopped  tine,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  six  soda  crackeis  or  half  a  pound  of  bread 
crumbs,  oue-half  pound  stoned  raisins,  wet  and  dredged  with 
tlour,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  three 
ounces  of  citron,  one  cpiart  of  milk,  six  eggs,  two  grated 
nutmegs,  one  tablespoonful  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  half  gill 
of  brand^'.  Steam  two  hours,  and  brown  half  an  hour  in 
oven.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

pi.ii:h  pi  i>i>i>ci. 

Two  ijuarts  of  best  tlour,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two 
pounds  of  currants,  onc-lialf  jiound  of  citron,  one  pound  of 
suet,  two  nutmegs,  one  gill  of  Itrandy,  sugar  to  suit  taste; 
the  whole  to  be  made  up  with  milk.     Boil  well  four  hourtj. 

Mrs.  L.  E.  Kline. 

PLl  H  PI  l>l>l.\G. 

One  l(Kif  of  Itread,  one  (piart  of  milk,  one-half  pound  «»f 
sugar,  one  lialf  i)int  of  molasses,  one-(]uarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  or  suet,  six  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  cloves, 
allspice,  one  small  bowl  raisins,  salt  to  your  taste. 

Mrs.  T.  T.  Richards. 

Pl.l  M  PI  l>I>IX€J. 

One  cup  of  raisins,  one  cu}»  of  currants,  and  one  cup  of 
suet  choi)ped  tine,  three  cups  ol"  tlour,  three  eggs,  two  tea- 
s])oonfuls  of  baking  i)owder.  Put  suet  and  fruit  into  the 
Hour  dry,  als«  baking  powder,  then  break  in  the  eggs;  add 
milk  enough  to  make  ii^ batter  stitf  enough  for  cake;  spice  to 
taste;  a  few  [lieces  of  citron  sliced  very  tine  may  be  added. 
Boil  three  hours  in  a  mould  or  tloured  bag;  serve  with  wine 
sauce.  Mrs.   D.  R.  Powell. 

iti.K  K  PI  i>i>i.\<;. 

Eight  t'ggs,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  oiu'  cup  of  tlour,  one 
cup  of  sugai'.  OIU'  cup  of  milk,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one 


PUDDIXQ8.  Ill 


jiill  of  brandy,  one  mitmeg".  Beat  the  eggs  and  butter 
together,  tlieu  the  liour  until  smooth,  then  the  other  ingre- 
dients ;  lastly,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  or  better,  put 
the  soda  in  the  molasses.  Better  i)artly  steamed,  tlien 
baked.  Take  a  full  hour  to  cook,  or  bake  one  hour.  For 
sauce,  beat  butter  and  sugar  together  to  a  froth  and  pour  a 
little  boiling  water  over  it.     A  very  rich  pudding. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

PJ.rM  PUI>1>IXG. 

One  loaf  of  bakers  bread  grated,  tliree  pints  of  milk, 
one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  pound  of  raisins  stoned,  six  eggs,  mixed,  spice  to  taste, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Bake  two  hours  and  a  half  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Miss  A.  M.  Smiley. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  ten  eggs  very  light,  stir  in 
a  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  cho]>ped  suet,  one-lialf 
teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  same  of  cinnamon,  the  grated 
peel  of  a  lemon,  the  inside  of  a  French  loaf  of  bread  picked 
to  crumbs,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder;  dredge 
half  a  pound  of  candied  orange  peel,  same  of  citron  cut  in 
slices,  one  ])Ound  of  seeded  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants 
washed  and  dried  well;  stir  all  together  and  ])ut  in  a  i)iece 
of  cloth  ;  tie  ])erfectly  tight  at  tirst  to  give  it  a  good  shape ; 
after  boiling  Hfteen  or  twenty  minutes  loosen  the  string 
and  put  back  to  boil.     Serve  with  rich  sauce. 

Mrs.  Frank  Fili.ey. 

SI  ET  PI  1>1>ING. 

Six  eggs,  small  bowl  of  suet  chopped  hue,  one  cup  of 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  liour  as  stiff  as  you  can 
beat  it,  one  bowl  of  raisins,  or  more,  a  little  sugar;  cover 
the  pudding,  and  boil  constantly  t^YO  hours  and  a  half,  or  if 
steamed  three  hours  ;  boil  in  a  drilling  bag;  cover  with  but- 
ter and  Hour  before  putting  the  pudding  into  boil. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 


112  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


BOILED  SIHET  PI  DDIXG. 

Two  teacups  of  flour,  one  of  suet,  two  tablespooufuls  of 
sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  wet  withniilk. 

Mrs.  G.  F.  Filley. 

SUET  PlIWDIXG. 

One  cup  of  cliopped  suet,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup 
of  water,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  three  and 
a  half  cups  of  Hour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  if 
any  is  left  it  can  be  steamed  over:  will  be  better  the  second 
day;  to  be  served  with  a  warm  sauce.  Steam  three  or  four 
hours.  Mrs.  S.  Copp  amd  Many  Others. 

PKEJSIDEXT'S  PI  1>DIXG. 

Two-thirds  of  a'  cu^)  of  sugar,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  crumb  half  a  loaf 
of  baker's  bread  tine;  add  the  rind  and  juice  of  one  large 
lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  mix  all  together;  then 
put  half  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish ;  spread  on  this  a 
very  little  of  preserves  or  fresh  fruit,  then  put  in  the 
remainder  of  the  mixture;  bake  half  an  hour;  whip  the 
whites  of  the  four  eggs,  with  half  a  cup  of  tine  sugar  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  spread  over  it.       ^Irs.  D.  Young. 

KISKAI>    PI  I>l>INO. 

One  (juart  of  iiiilk,  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  cup 
of  butter,  four  <'ggs,  one  cu^)  of  sugar;  heat  milk  an<l  butler; 
;i(bl  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  beaten,  witli  a  little  cold 
milk,  thin  the  bread,  put  in  the  oven,  and  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  well  beaten,  just  before  taking  out. 

APPLE  BKEAII  PI  1>1>I\<;. 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  beat  the  yolks  in  a  pint  of 
milk,  break  in  dry  bread,  a  little  salt,  a  small  eiii)  of  sugar; 
stir  in  two  apples  sliced  tine,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  last ; 
bake  one  hour.  Mrs.  T.  E.  Kline. 


PUPBINGS.  113 


BR£AD  AWI>  BUTTER  PUDDIXG. 

Cut  some  slices  of  bread  moderately  tliick,  without  the 
crust,  butter,  aad  cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish  with 
them ;  spread  a  pound  of  currants,  raisins,  or  stewed  apples 
over  the  slices,  strew  some  brown  sugar  over  it;  put  another 
layer  of  bread  and  fruit,  etc.,  with  a  layer  of  bread  for  the  top, 
then  pour  over  the  whole  four  eggs,  mixed  with  a  pint  of 
milk ;  bake  one  hour ;  grate  nutmeg  over  it  when  done ;  serve 
warm. 

PIWDIXG    FBriT. 

Take  apple  sauce  or  stewed  pears,  or  peaches,  or  any  kind 
of  small  berries,  and  mix  them  with  equal  quantities  of  rusk 
crumbs;  make  a  custard  of  four  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk, 
sweetening  very  sweet;  mix  it  with  the  crumbs  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  D.  Young. 

BREAD    MERWrGlIE. 

Rub  stale  bread  (for  a  small  family  about  a  pint);  add 
niilk  to  make  a  little  thicker  than  custard,  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  sweetened  ;  let  it  bake 
until  a  light  brown;  take  it  out  and  cover  up  vith  jelly,  any 
kind  you  like  ;  beat  the  whites  of  eggs,  flavor  and  sweeten, 
spread  over  the  top  :  bake  a  few  minutes  ;  eat  cold.  Some 
serve  with  cream.  Mrs.  Brock. 

BAKE1>  IIVDIAX   PUDDING. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk  and  one  pint  of  fine  Indian  meal, 
stirring  it  well;  mix  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  one 
pint  of  milk  until  free  from  lumps  ;  mix  this  with  the  Indian 
meal  and  stir  the  mixture  well.  When  moderately  warm, 
stir  in  three  beaten  eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  two  of  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Wiien  baked  five  or  six  minutes 
stir  in  raisins  and  one-half  pint  of  milk. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Filley. 


114  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


BAK£I>  i:BfI>IAX  PI :i>DIXG.  ^o.  2. 

Oue  quart  of  milk  boiled,  seven  s])00ufiil8  of  corn  meal, 
one  cup  of  molasses,  oue  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of 
cold  milk  put  in  witbout  stirring,  just  before  baking'. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

BOll.KU  IM>1A.\  PlI>I>I3f«. 

.Three  pints  of  milk,  ten  heaping  tablespoons  of  sifted 
corn  meal,  one-half  pint  of  molasses,  two  eggs;  scald  the 
meal  with  the  milk;  add  the  molasses  and  a  teaspoon  of 
salt;  put  in  the  eggs  when  it  is  cool  enough  not  to  scald 
them,  put  in  one  tablespoon  of  ginger.  Tie  the  bag  so  that 
it  will  be  two-thirds  full  of  the  pudding  in  order  to  give  room 
to  swell.     Suet  improves  it. 

CORX   MEAI.  PIOIMXCJ. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  half  pint  of  corn  meal,  one-fourth 
l)onnd  of  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  of  butter;  mix  the 
above  and  boil  in  the  milk  until  the  meal  is  scalded;  when 
cool,  put  in  a  little  salt,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs;  beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiti"  froth  and  stir  in  lightly;  dredge  with  dried 
bread  crumbs  ;  ])ut  in  the  i)udding  bag  and  boil  two  hours. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

RiC'JB  pri>i>i\c;. 

Boil  a  coffee-cup  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  milk,  and  a  little 
salt,  until  the  milk  is  entirely  absorbed,  then  stir  in  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  four  large  si)0onfuls  of 
white  sugar,  two  tables[)Oonfuls  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
then  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  with  twelve  dessert  spoon- 
fuls of  wliite  sugar  to  a  stiff'  froth,  spread  over  the  top,  and 
bake  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  G.  LEiaHTON  and  Mrs.  J.  Lewis. 

ivasiii\4;to\  pi  i>inx<.i. 

Boil  one  cup  of  rice  in  one  pint  of  water  till  the  water  lias 
all  boiled  away,  then   add  a  quart  of  milk  and  boil  till  it 


PUDDINGS.  115 


thickens,  stirring  it  carefnlly  all  the  time ;  then  add  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  and  eight  tablespooufuls  of  sugar.  Pour  this  into  a 
dish,  and  let  it  stand  while  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  are 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  to  which  add  eight  tablespooufuls  of 
])Owdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  beat  all  well 
together;  pour  the  icing  over  the  pudding,  set  it  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  and  watch  till  it  is  baked  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  Brock. 

V  DEliIC'IOrS  RI€E  PlTD»i:^G. 

Take  two  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  two  heaping  tablespoou- 
fuls of  rice,  a  teacup  of  raisins,  a  little  salt  and  sugar  to 
suit  the  taste;  grate  in  about  half  a  nutmeg,  stir  all  together 
cold,  put  into  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  for  about  two  hours, 
or  until  it  becomes  creamy.     It  is  best  eaten  cold. 

Mrs.  Gardiner. 

TAPIOCA  PITDDIXG. 

One  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  over  night  in  water  or  milk, 
one  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  live  tablespooufuls  of  sugar; 
let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  whole  egg  and  the 
yolks  of  three  beaten  light,  and  the  sugar;  boil  until  thick; 
pour  into  your  pudding  dish,  and  add  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar; 
bake  a  few  moments  to  brown  lightly  the  top  ;  flavor  to  your 
taste;  lemon  is  nice.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

TAPIOCA  PVTDDIXG. 

Two  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  put  in  a  tin  pan 
with  half  a  pint  of  milk,  put  on  the  stove  to  soften  for  an 
hour  and  a  half,  beat  up  one  egg,  add  a  little  sugar;  beat  up 
light,  then  add  a  little  milk  and  raisins;  beat  all  together; 
put  in  a  baking  dish  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Richards. 

I.EMO^  TAPIOCA  PlJI>Di:XO. 

Take  a  teacup  of  large  ta[)ioca  and  soak  it  over  night  in 
a  pint  of  water;  in  the  morning  make  a  rich  lemonade  with 


116  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


two  or  three  lemons  and  a  pint  of  water,  put  it  with  the 
tapioca,  and  boil  until  clear;  if  too  thick,  add  more  water; 
peel  the  lemons  very  thin,  cut  the  peel  into  straws,  and  boil 
until  tender,  then  drain  off  the  water  and  add  the  peel  to  the 
tapioca  before  quite  done.     To  be  eaten  cold,   with  cream. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

TAPIOCA  WITH   APPI.es. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  live  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca, 
eight  apples,  two  quarts  of  water;  flavor  with  lemon;  melt 
in  a  dish;  add  water;  bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Iir>TIXOTOX  PIDDIXG. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  tapioca,  three  eggs,  eight 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  bake 
twenty  minutes,  and  then  pour  upon  it  a  frosting  made  of 
eight  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs,  juice  of 
one  lemon;  bake  till  slightly  brown. 

Mrs.  VVentworth. 

BI.AC'KBKRRY  TAPIOC  A. 

Half  a  teacup  of  tapioca,  wash  it  nicely,  and  let  it  stand 
in  a  bowl  full  of  water,  with  a  little  salt,  till  it  swells,  then 
let  it  boil  slowly  till  all  is  dissolved  and  clear  like  starch, 
adding  water  till  it  is  about  the  same  consistency,  and  add  a 
little  white  sugar;  stew  the  berries  with  brown  sugar,  then 
take  a  dish  and  put  a  layer  of  tapioca  while  hot,  and  one  of 
berries,  till  the  dish  is  full,  then  set  it  in  the  oven  about  ten 
minutes.     Eat  cold,  witli  cream  aiul  sugar. 

Prepare  the  tapioca  in  the  same  way;  put  a  layer  of  that 
and  one  of  cut  and  sugared  peaches,  instead  of  the  berries, 
is  very  nice;  but  the  peaches  do  not  need  any  cooking  but 
what  they  get  in  the  oven.  Kaspberries 'are  delicious  done 
the  same  way.  Mrs.  Brock. 

STKAWBFKUV  TAPIOCA. 

Soak  over  night  a  large  cupful  of  tapioca  in  cold  water; 
in  the  morning  {)nt  half  of  it  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  sugar 


PUDDINGS.  117 


over  the  tapioca,  then  on  this  put  a  quart  of  berries,  sujiar, 
and  tlie  rest  of  the  tapioca,  cover  about  a  quarter  of  an  iiicli 
with  water;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  it  looks  clear; 
in  baking,  if  it  seems  too  <lry,  more  water  is  needed.  Eat 
with  cream  or  custard.  Make  i)each  tapioca  in  the  same  way, 
using  less  water  and  cooking  longer. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Semple. 

PIBfEAPFI.E  TAPIOCA. 

Pare  and  grate  the  fruit,  allowing  one  pineap])le  to  two 
cups   of  tapioca,    mixing   tlie    fruit   and    sugar  thoroughly. 

Mes.  E.  H.  Semple. 

BATTER  PIDDIXG. 

One  quart  of  milk,  six  eggs,  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
a  little  salt.  Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the  yolks,  pour  into 
the  milk,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  last  of  all  beat  the  whites  to 
a  froth  and  bake  immediately.  Mrs.  S.  C.  Davis. 

STEA:fIED  BATTER  PIBDIXG. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  pint  and  a  balf  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  ^east  powdei',  two  eggs,  and  a  Utile  salt. 
Mix  in  a  batter,  put  in  a  bucket  and  set  in  a  i>ot  of  boiling 
water.     Boil  one  hour  and  a  half. 

WICE  BATTKR  PIDOIXO. 

One  quart  of  milk,  half  a  i)intof  flour,  seven  eggs  beaten 
separately,  a  little  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 
Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Miss  E.  Tucker, 

BOILED  FI^OIR  PITDBIXG. 

Ten  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  five  eggs,  one  and  a 
half  ])ints  of  milk,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  salt;  beat  the 
eggs  and  milk  together,  and  stir  them  into  the  flour  grad- 
ually; tie  in  a  bag,  not  too  tight;  boil  two  liours  and  a 
quarter.  Mrs.  Brock. 


118  MT  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


FEATHER  CAKE  PIDDIXG. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cuj)  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of 
flour,  oue-balf  cup  of  butter,  tliree  eggs,  three  teasj^oonfuls 
of  baking  powder.  Mrs,  D,  Young. 

COTTAGE   PIDDIXG. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  the  .volks  of  two  eggs  well  beateu,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  tliree  tablespooufuls  of  melted  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  (dissolved),  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar  nibbed  dry  into  one  pint  of  flour,  the  grated  rind 
ofouelemou;  mix  well;  bake  half  an  hour.  Sauce  for  the 
above :  The  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten,  with  one  cup  of  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Mrs.  S.  A.  Ranlett. 

PMFF  PI  DDIXGS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  little 
salt.  Bake  in  cups  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  serve  with 
wine  sauce.  Miss  Krum. 

GERWA^^  PFFFS. 

Five  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  three;  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour;  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter;  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  and  milk  together  till 
quite  light,  then  add  flour  and  butter.  Bake  in  cups  half 
full;  will  be  baked  in  rifteen  minutes.  Sauce:  Beat  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stitt'  froth,  add  the  Juice  of  two 
lemons  mixed  in  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  stir  well  with  the 
eggs;  place  the  putts  in  a  dish,  letting  them  cool  a  little, 
and  pour  the  sauce  ^-er  them.         Mrs.  J.  G.  Chapman. 

SPOXGE  Pn>l>IXG. 

•One  quart  of  milk,  ((uarter  i)ound  of  butter,  quarter 
pound  of  flour,  quarter  i)ound  of  sugar,  ten  eggs.  Beat  the 
sugar,  butter  and  flour  smooth,  beat  the  eggs  separately, 
then  put  the  yolks  in  ;  let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil  and  pour 
over  the  butter,  sugar.  Hour  and  eggs;  beat  the  whites  to  a 
stitt"  froth,  and  stir  in  (|uickly.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  pan 
of  water.  Mrs.  Wm,  Maurice. 


PUDBINOS.  119 


SPONOK  PUDDING. 

One  tablespoonful  of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  three  eggs.  Beat 
yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together  light,  then  add  flour 
and  white  of  eggs  beaten  very  light,  add  milk;  put  the 
baking  powder  in  the  flour;  steam  in  cups  twenty  minutes. 
This  will  make  seven  cui)s ;  to  be  eaten  with  a  rich  sauce. 

Mrs.  D.  R.  Powell. 

SIXDERLAXD  PI  DDIXG. 

Plight  eggs,  five  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  pint  and 
a  half  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  well,  and 
mix  smoothly  with  the  flour,  then  add  the  milk;  lastly  beat 
the  whites  to  a  stift"  froth,  beat  all  well,  and  bake  at  once. 
Sauce  for  the  above :  Ten  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar, 
butter  size  of  an  egg^  one  eggj  one  wineglass  of  water. 
Beat  the  egg  and  sugar  well  together,  have  the  water  boil 
and  stir  in  the  butter,  pour  into  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar, 
add  a  wine-glass  of  wine,  and  send  to  table  at  once.  This 
should  be  a  perfect  foam  when  made.     Bake  in  cups. 

Mrs.  H.  McKittrick. 

KISS  PI  ddi:ngj. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three  and  a  half  heaping  tablespoons 
of  corn  starch,  five  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt; 
boil  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  corn  starch,  wet  with  a  little 
of  the  cold  milk;  then  add  the  sugar,  salt,  and  the  beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes;  flavor,  pour 
into  a  dish  and  smooth  nicely.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stitf  froth ;  stir  in  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar ; 
flavor  if  you  choose ;  turn  it  upon  the  pudding  and  set  in 
the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

CORN  STARCH  PrDDING. 

Warm  three  pints  of  milk,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch,  four  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  a  mite  of  salt; 
put  in  the  oven  until  it  begins  to  thicken  ;  then  beat  the 
whites  and  six  teaspoons  of  sugar  together;  spread  over 
it  and  bake  until  done. 


120  MY  MO  TRUE  '8  COOK  BO  OK. 

CORX   STARCH   PIDDI^G.   BOILED. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  place  over  the  tire  to  boil ;  add 
a  little  salt.  Take  four  tablespoonfuls  of  starch  wet  with 
cold  milk;  beat  four  eg'^s  and  add  to  the  starch;  when  the 
milk  boils,  stir  the  starch  and  eggs  in  gradually  and  boil  ten 
minutes,  stirring  until  it  is  smooth;  pour  into  a  dish  and 
serve  with  wine  sauce.  J.  R.  A. 

PL.AXCHETTE   PIJDDIXG. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of 
corn  starch,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  raisins,  a  little  salt  and 
vanilla.  Boil  the  raisins  soft  and  put  them  in  the  pudding 
dish;  use  only  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  for  the  custard;  when 
boiled  pour  over  the  raisins;  make  a  frosting  with  the 
whites. 

CHOCOLATE   PIDDIXCJ. 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk;  into  this  stir  three  tablespoons 
of  grated  chocolate ;  when  cold  add  five  eggs,  saving  whites 
of  two,  five  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  of  corn  starch  dis- 
solved in  a  little  milk  (cold),  flavor  to  taste;  bake  half  an 
hour;  cover  with  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  beaten  with  half 
a  cup  of  brown  sugar.  Mrs.  Norris. 

CHOCOliATE    PIDDIXG. 

One  quart  of  milk,  twelve  tablespoons  of  grated  choco- 
late, one-half  loaf  stale  baker's  bread,  three  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon;  bake  half  an  liour;    serve  with  sauce. 

Mrs.  Young. 

CHOCOLATE  PI  DOIXG. 

One  (piart  of  milk,  two  eggs  beaten  liglit,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  one  half  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
one  cup  of  grated  chocolate ;  let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil; 
add  the  corn  starch  previously  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk; 
when  this  has  boiled  two  minutes  add  the  eggs  and  sugar 
beaten  light  together,  and  lastly  add  the  chocolate,  letting 
it  all  boil  for  a  minute  before  taking  off  the  fire.  Serve  cold, 
with  sugar  and  cream.  Mrs.  J.  G.  Chapman. 


PUDDINGS.  121 


One  quart  of  milk,  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  corn  starch,  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  bring  the  milk 
to  a  boil  and  stir  eggs,  etc.,  into  it;  when  thickened,  pour 
into  a  dish  and  Havor  with  vanilla  or  lemon.  Then  add  a 
cup  of  sugar  to  the  whites  of  the  eggs ;  beat  them  and 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  and  set  in  the  oven 
until  a  light  brown.  Cool  the  pudding  before  adding  the 
meringue.     Eaten  cold.  J.  R.  A. 

BL.AC  K  PI  DDIXG. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk  . 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  syrup, 
eight  eggs,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy,  one  nutmeg;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus  to  pe  put  in  just  before  baking. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

DANISH  pri>i>i:\G. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  eight  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sugar. 
Boil  the  milk  and  pour  upon  the  beaten  yolks ;  beat  the  whites 
very  light  and  stir  in ;  take  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar 
and  burn  it  slightly  in  an  iron  pan,  put  in  the  bottom  of  an 
earthen  pudding  dish,  pour  the  custard  on  top,  set  the  dish  in 
a  pan  of  water,  bake  one  hour;  eat  cold. 

Miss  E.  Tucker, 

FRITTERS  WITHOUT  MltK. 

One  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  in  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
and  a  pint  of  flour,  until  smooth,  then  pour  it  into  a  deep 
dish;  when  cool  enough  so  as  not  to  scald  the  eggs,  break  in 
four  eggs,  only  one  at  a  time,  beating  it  verj"  light,  then  have 
your  fat  hot,  dropping  in  a  spoonful  at  a  time. 

Mrs.  S.  D.  Glover. 

SOIIFFI.E  PITDDIXG. 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stirring  all  the  while;  add  a  tum- 


122  MY  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 

bier  of  sweet  milk,  stir  uutil  it  becomes  the  cousistency  of 
starch ;  take  from  the  Are  aud  add  quickly  the  unbeaten  yolks 
of  four  ejis's.  Just  before  dinuer  add  the  whites  of  the  ejigs 
beaten  stiff  with  two  tablespoon fuls  of  white  sugar,  stir  it 
through  lightly  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  To  be  eaten  with 
a  sauce.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Moore. 

«EXri.EMAX*S  PIDDIXG. 

Half  ]>ound  of  grated  cheese,  quarter  pound  of  bread 
crumbs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk. 
Pour  over  the  mixed  cheese,  l>read  crumbs  and  butter,  the 
warm  milk  with  a  little  salt;  when  cool  add  the  well  beaten 
eggs;  bake  in  a  pudding  dish,  aud  eat  hot  for  supper. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Morton. 

EVE'S  Pl'I>l>I\C;. 

Six  large  sour  apples  chopj^ed  fine,  one  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  three  tablespoon  fuls  of  tlour,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  of  currants,  one  small  cup  of  butter,  five  eggs;  mix 
well  together,  adding  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  last;  pour  into  a 
tin  j)ud«ling  mould  well  buttered:  boil  three  hours:  eat  with 
sauce.  Miss  E.  Tucker  and  Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

APPLE  MERIXGl  E. 

Pai'e  and  quarter  nice  fair  ai)ples,  stew  till  soft  with  a 
little  water  and  sugar — be  careful  not  to  break  them;  when 
soft  lay  them  in  apudding dish  ;  for  a  medium  sized  pudding 
allow  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  beat  them  to  a  stift'  froth,  with 
a  cupful  of  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon;  spread  the  eggs  and 
sugar  over  the  ai)ples,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  it  becomes 
a  delicate  brown.  Mrs.  J.  W.  GoDDARi). 

JEIiliY  :»IERI^OI  E  PrDl>IN«. 

One  ]>int  of  stale  bread  crumbs  (baker's  bread),  one  quart 
of  milk,  half  a  cuj)  of  white  sugar,  three  eggs;  the  yellows 
of  the  eggs  with  the  white  of  one  well  beaten  and  added  to 
the  milk  and  crumbs.     Mix  all  these  together  and  flavor  with 


PUDDINGS.  123 


nutmeg  or  any  flavor  you  may  prefer,  set  it  in  the  oveu  and 
bake  slowly  for  two  hours,  take  it  out  aud  let  it  cool,  then 
spread  over  it  some  currant  or  plum  jelly,  take  the  whites 
of  the  two  eggs  aud  beat  light,  addiug  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar;  beat  till  very  thick,  spread  il  over  the 
top,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  a  minute  or  two  until  a  very  light 
brown.     It  must  be  eaten  perfectly  cold  with  cream. 

E.  M. 

BIRDS'  ^EST  PDDDIXG. 

Pare  the  apples,  leave  them  whole,  take  out  the  core,  fill 
the  i)lace  with  sugar  and  lemon,  put  them  in  a  square  pan, 
make  a  thick  batter  of  flour,  milk  and  saleratus,  pour  ujjon 
them,  and  bake  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  serve  with 
sauce.  Instead  of  a  batter  of  flour,  etc.,  a  nice  custard  may 
be  poured  over  the  apples,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

BAKED  APPLE  lU  UPI.I^G  PIDDIXO. 

Make  a  biscuit  dough,  loll  it  out  about  one-half  inch  thick, 
have  raw  apples  sliced  thin,  season  with  sugar  and  cinnamon 
s])read  over  the  middle  of  the  dough,  fold  the  ends  of  dongh 
to  the  middle,  dot  on  small  pieces  of  butter,  put  into  a 
biscuit  pan  with  one  and  a  half  inches  of  water.    Baste  well. 

Sauce. — Thicken  the  water  with  butter  and  flour  rubbed 
together,  sugar  and  cinnamon ;  let  it  scald  u])on  the  to]>  of 
the  stove ;  if  not  enough  water  in  the  pan,  add  a  little  more. 

Maggie  Fanning. 


BOILED  APPLE  DUMPLIXG. 

Take  six  Irish  potatoes,  boil  and  mash  them,  moisten 
with  a  little  milk,  some  salt,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an 
e^gg'^  then  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  crust;  slice  the  apples 
thin  and  put  into  the  crust,  after  being  rolled  out,  add  a 
little  allspice;  put  into  a  dish  and  steam  two  hours.  Some 
prefer  to  have  the  apples  whole  and  crust  wrapped  round 
eacli  apple. 


124  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


FRITIT  PlTDI>i:^G. 

One  quart  of  berries  or  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit  mixed  with 
one  quart  of  tiour,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  milk 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  pour  into  tin  pudding  mould; 

boil  in  water  three  hours. 

Mrs.  Eobt.  Clarke,  N.  Y. 

WHORTLEBERRY    PI  DDIXG. 

One  pint  of  molasses  and  water,  a  tablespoon  of  salt, 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  one  quart  of  berries;  boil  three 
hours.    To  be  eaten  with  a  cold  butter  and  sugar  sauce. 

Mrs.  Brock. 

BLACKBERRY  PrDDIXG. 

One  ])ound  of  flour,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  quart  of 
blackberries,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda, 
one  and  a  half  of  salt,  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice.  Boil  in 
a  mould  ;  serve  with  sauce.  Mrs.  Dan.  Young. 

C'lTROX    PUDDIXG. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  thirteen  eggs  well 
beaten,  cream,  nine  ounces  of  butter;  mix  with  the  eggs  and 
sugar;  make  a  rich  puff"  paste,  lay  it  in  the  bottom  of 
the  dish ;  slice  the  citron  thin,  lay  it  in  the  bottom ;  pour 
the  pudding  in  and  bake  it  slowly. 

GIXGER    PUDDIXG. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  cuj)  of  butter,  two  eggs, 
half  a  cup  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  table- 
spoon of  ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Mrs.  AV.  H.  Pulsifer. 

FIG   PI  DOIXG. 

Six  ounces  of  suet,  six  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  six  ounces 
of  sugar,  one-lialf  pound  of  tigs,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one-half  glass  of  brandy,  one  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder.    Steam  three  hours.         Mrs.  D.  Young. 


PUDDINGS.  125 


BOIIi£D   liEMON   PUDDIXG. 

Oue-half  pound  of  suet,  three-quarters  of  a  i)ouud  of 
bread  crumbs,  two  small  lemons,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  flour,  two  eggs  and  milk.  Mix  suet, 
crumbs,  sugar  and  flour  well  together,  adding  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  lemons  ;  when  well  mixed  moisten  with  the 
eggs  and  sufficient  milk  to  make  the  pudding  of  the  consist- 
ency of  thick  batter,  put  in  a  buttered  mould,  boil  three  and 
a  half  hours;  serve  with  wine  sauce.         Mrs.  D.  Young. 

I.EMOX   PLDDIXG. 

Three  large  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  mixed  with 
cold  water  very  thin,  add  three  coftee-cups  of  boiling  water, 
boil  till  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time,  then  add  two  coffee- 
cups  of  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  large  lemons, 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  to  taste:  butter  a  pudding  dish 
and  bake  twenty  minutes  ;  serve  cold ;  nice  with  cream. 

Mrs.  D.  Young. 

I.E]»IO:Sr   RICE   PUDDIIVG. 

One  teacup  of  rice,  three  pints  of  milk,  a  little  salt; 
boil  in  a  farina  boiler  three  hours;  pour  into  a  pudding 
dish  and  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  a 
large  tablesi)Oonful  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar; 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff"  froth  and  stir  in  twelve 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar;  grate  the  rind  of  one 
large  lemon  into  the  rice,  and  add  the  juice  to  the  whites, 
and  pour  over  the  rice,  and  put  into  the  oven  until  of  a  light 
brown  color.     Served  cold.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

ORAXGE   PITDDIXG. 

One  pound  of  butter  and  one  pound  of  sugar  beaten  to  a 
cream,  one  glass  of  brandy,  wine  and  rose-water  mixed 
together,  ten  eggs  beaten  to  a  light  froth  ;  boil  the  rinds  of  two 
oranges  until  tender,  cbanging  the  water  two  or  three  times, 
tlien  beat  in  a  mortar,  add  the  juice  with  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Mrs.  D.  Young. 


126  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


ORAXCIE  MARMAIiADE   PLDWIXO. 

One  cup  of  tine  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  milk  or  cream,  four  eggs,  two  teaspooufuls  of  butter, 
one  cu\)  of  orange  or  other  sweet  marmalade;  beat  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  together:  add  the  yolks  well  beaten;  then  the 
milk,  the  crumbs  and  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth;  put  a 
layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  a  well  buttered  baking  dish; 
then  spread  thickly  with  some  thick  marmalade  (orange  is 
the  best) ;  then  another  layer  of  the  mixture  until  the  dish  is 
full,  leaving  the  custard  mixture  at  the  top;  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  one  hour;  serve  it  at  table  with  cream  or  custard. 

E.  M. 

C'OCOAXIT   PIDDIWG. 

Grate  one  cocoanut  after  having  scraped  off  the  outside 
skin,  pound  or  roll  tine  four  Boston  crackers  and  mix  with 
the  cocoanut,  add  to  them  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  or  one  ])int  of  sweet  cream; 
beat  six  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  and  stir  into  the 
mixture,  add  a  small  cup  of  sugar,  flavor  to  the  taste;  i)Our 
into  a  deep  dish  lined  with  ricli  paste  and  bake  about  an 
hour;  can  be  served  warm  or  cold. 

iMRS.  E.  P.  Pettes. 

«I.I>-FASHIOXEl>    BiKEI>    KI€E    PIIUJIXO. 

One  quart  of  good  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  davor  with  nutmeg; 
bake  two  hours  in  a  slow  oven,  and  then  you  will  have  a  rich 
creamy  pudding.  E.  M. 

Hi:i>l>IX4;  CAKE  PI  DI>1\G. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants;  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  boil  three  hours  in  a  mould. 

Sauce. — Half  a  cup  of  butter  creamed,  with  sugar,  brandy 
and  extract  or  nutmeg  to  suit  taste. 

Mrs.  Frank  A.  Lane. 


FUBDING8.  127 


BOIL£l>   SAI.I.Y   I.IJXX  PITI>I>I]\G. 

Seven  eggs,  one  cnp  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two 
pints  of  tloui",  balf  a  cup  of  yeast;  make  up  over  night,  and 
in  the  moiniug  beat  in  half  a  pound  of  raisins ;  grease  a  tin 
naould  well,  and  put  in  boiling  water;  boil  three,  hours ; 
keep  steady  in  pot ;  serve  with  sauce  of  sugar  and  butter, 
<*reamed.  Mrs.  F.  A.  Lane. 

YEBMICEL!.!    PUDI>IXC1. 

Wash  three  ounces  of  vermicelli,  and  boil  till  it  thickens 
in  a  pint  of  milk,  with  a  pinch  of  salt;  remove  it  from  the 
tire,  and  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and 
flavor  it  to  taste  ;  bake  half  an  hour ;  serve  cold,  with  cream. 

C.  G.  Hill. 

APPI.E   FRITTERS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar; 
make  a  stiff  batter,  stir  in  chopped  apple,  and  fry  like  pan- 
cakes ;  to  be  eaten  with  sweet  sauce  or  nice  syrup. 

BAKE1>  I.\DIAX  P11D1>IX€J. 

Scald  three  pints  of  milk,  and  pour  it  on  to  a  common- 
sized  teacup  of  corn  meal,  add  nearly  a  cup  of  molasses  and 
a  little  salt;  when  ready  for  the  oven,  add  a  pint  of  cold 
milk,  give  it  a  stir  round,  and  set  it  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  Sam'l  Treat. 

CORX    P1I1>DIXG. 

To  three  ])int8  of  milk  take  two  quarts  of  cut  corn,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  tiour  mixed  up  with  milk,  four  eggs,  salt  to 
taste  ;  add  a  little  butter.     Bake  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Davis. 

COR^"    PUDDIXG. 

One-half  dozen  ears  of  corn,  one  half  pint  of  milk,  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  sugar  and  salt  to  taste;  two  table8])oons 
of  butter,  one  of  tlour  if  liked ;  grate  and  scrape  the  corn ; 
bake  all  about  half  an  hour  Mrs.  E.  H.  Temple. 


128  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


CARROT   PITDDIlfG. 

Half  a  pound  each  of  siioar,  raisius,  currants,  grated 
raw  potatoes  and  carrots  and  suet  chopped  hue,  one  pound 
of  tlour,  one  cuj)  of  milk,  mix  all  together;  put  in  a  tioured 
bag  or  mould;  serve  with  a  warm  sauce.     Boil  three  hours. 

Mrs.  D.  R.  Powell. 

PI  I>1>I\G  SilCE. 

Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  nearly  two  tea- 
cups of  sugar,  one  egg;  beat  all  to  a  cream,  when  ready  to 
send  to  table  stir  in  a  little  boiling  water;  be  sure  the  water 
is  boiling,  and  Judge  the  quantity  by  its  looks — perhaps  a 
few  tablespoonfuls.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Davis. 

SAITC'E. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  beat  with  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then  add 
the  whites  beaten  light,  then  the  wine  for  seasoning,  and 
just  before  sending  to  the  table  thin  with  about  half  a  cup  of 
warm  milk.  Mrs.  Palmer. 

PlII>l>I^G  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  but 
ter,  two  eggs,  one  teasi)oonful  of  lemon ;  beat  all  up  to  a 
cream ;  just  before  taking  it  to  the  table  add  about  a  teacup 
of  boiling  water,  stirring  it  quite  fast. 

Mrs.  S.  D.  Glover. 

SPI.E3fl>II>    PI  I>I>IXG   SAUCE. 

One  cu])  of  sugar,  one  egg,  pinch  of  salt;  beat  together 
twenty  minutes,  just  before  wanted  boil  a  little  over  a  tea- 
cup of  milk,  add  tlavoring  of  wine  or  brandy,  ])our  the  boil- 
ing milk  on  to  the  sugar  and  tgg.  stir  all  together  quickly. 

Mrs.  Damon,  New  York. 

AUXT   MARY'S   SAUCE. 

Two  eggs,  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  one  and  a 
half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  gill 
of  milk  i  stir  all  well  together,  and  cook  same  as  float.  This 
is  splendid  sauce  for  apple  dumplings. 


PUDBIN08.  129 


SAUCE. 

Add  to  one  coffee-cup  of  boiling"  milk  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour  wet  with  two  of  cold  milk;  have  ready  one  teacup 
of  sugar  and  one-half  teacup  of  butter  stirred  together,  and 
when  the  milk  and  flour  have  boiled  two  or  three  minutes 
add  the  sugar  and  butter ;  stir  well,  but  do  not  boil ;  flavor 
with  vanilla. 

HARD  PUDDIXG  SAUCE. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  brandy ; 
beat  well  together.  Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 


130  MY  MOTHER' 8  COOK  BOOK. 


PIES 


tXTRA   XICK. 

Pastry  for  seveu  pies,  three  uucovered.  Three  pints  of 
liour,  one  pound  of  butter  and  a  heaping-  cup  of  lard ;  wash 
the  butter  in  ice- water  to  extract  the  salt:  set  the  pan  in 
which  you  mix  the  pastry  in  one  tilled  with  ice-water;  mix 
very  lightly  with  ice  water,  the  tlour  and  lard  and  one  cup 
of  the  butter;  roll  the  paste  thin  three  times,  always  rolling 
from  you,  and  each  time  adding  one-third  the  butter,  in 
small  pieces,  and  dredging  in  Hour.  Set  it  on  ice  and  let 
it  harden  before  using.  Mrs.  Krum. 

PASTRY. 

Mix  one-third  of  a  pound  of  butter  with  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  sifted  tiour,  using  ice-water  enough  to  moisten  it; 
roll  it  out  into  a  thin  sheet,  always  rolling  from  you  quickly 
and  lightly.  Cut  two-thirds  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  small 
bits,  and  when  the  paste  is  thin  enough  take  one  third  of 
them  and  stick  in  close  rows  ui)on  the  sheet;  dredge  with 
Hour;  roll  up  the  paste  into  close  folds  as  you  would  a  sheet 
of  music ;  tiatten  it  and  roll  out  as  before,  adding  another 
third  of  the  bits  of  butter;  do  this  three  times.  Finally  cut 
off  from  the  end  of  the  roll  a  piece  large  enough  to  cover  a 
pie  plate  and  roll  out  (juickly  ;  butter  your  pic  plates  ajid  tit 
the  paste  neatly  in  them;  gather  up  the  scraps  and  use  iu 
the  next  sheet.  If  a  top  crust  is  needed  lay  the  paste  on, 
cut  to  tit,  and  i)ress  down  the  edges  with  a  knife  or  si)Oon, 
ornamenting  it  in  regular  form.  Bake  until  a  light  brown. 
When  the  time  can  be  spared  it  improves  the  pie  crust,  after 
all  the  butter  has  been  used  up,  to  lay  the  roll  on  ice  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  or  more.  Mary  Oolburt. 


PIES.  131 


CHOP   PASTRY. 


Six  cups  of  Hour,  two  cups  of  shoiteuiug,  two  cups  of 
water,  salt;  chop  well  uutil  it  mixes;  it  need  not  l)e  touched 
with  the  hands  until  it  is  ready  to  roll. 

i^II^fCE  MEAT. 

Two  pounds  of  meat  after  being  boiled,  four  pounds  of 
apples,  one  pound  of  suet,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  and  a 
half  pounds  of  raisins,  one-half  pint  of  molasses,  one-half 
pint  of  brandy,  one-half  pint  of  wine,  one  quart  of  cider, 
four  tablespooufuls  of  salt,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoouful 
of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  mace,  two  nutmegs. 

MIXC'E    PIES. 

Two  pounds  chopped  meat  (save  the  water  it  is  boiled  in), 
four  pounds  of  apples  (Belletlower),  eight  nutmegs,  two 
pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one  pound  of 
citron,  half  a  teacup  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cloves,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mace,  one  pint  of  molasses,  three 
or  four  pounds  of  sugar,  three  or  four  tablespooufuls  of  salt, 
one  pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  cider  and  wine,  or  brandy. 
Mrs.  T.  T.  Richards  and  Mrs.  W,  H.  Pulsifer. 

SUJfOIER   MIXCE   PIES. 

Five  soda  cra.ckers,  roll  them  tine,  and  pour  over  them 
two  cups  of  boiling  water;  add  one  cup  of  molasses,  half  a 
cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  half 
a  cup  of  melted  butter,  half  a  cup  of  Inandy,  one  grated 
lemon  and  juice,  salt,  cloves,  cinnamon.  This  will  make  four 
good  sized  pies.  Mrs.  Wm,  ]\[aurice. 

C'OCOAXUT  PIE. 

Four  ounces  of  butter  and  one  pound  of  sugar  beaten 
together,  nine  eggs,  twelve  ounces  of  grated  cocoanut,  one 
tumbler  of  cream,  one  gill  of  rose-water. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 


132  MT  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


COCOAXl T  PIE. 

One  and  a  half  cui)S  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  rind  of  one  lemon, 
and  one  cocoanut  finely  grated.  ^    Mrs.  Kline. 

RAISIN  PIES. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  egg^  one  cracker 
soaked  in  milk,  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  the  rind  cliopped 
tine.     To  be  baked  in  tarts  or  turnovers. 

MISH    PIES. 

Four  eggs,  one  teacup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
mush,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
extract  of  lemon;  bake  as  custard  pies.        Mrs.  Wells. 

TRAXSPABEKT    PIES. 

For  two  pies — four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar;  beat  eggs 
and  sugar  together;  little  over  half  a  teacup  of  butter,  melt 
the  butter  if  the  weather  is  cold  and  pour  into  the  eggs  and 
sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  Havor  with  lemon; 
make  a  bottom  crust,  put  the  custard  in  and  bake. 

Mrs,  T.  J.  Albright,  Kirk  wood. 

CaSTARO    PIE. 

One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  take  out  the  whites,  beat 
the  eggs,  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  a  li1:tle  salt,  flavor  to 
suit;  till  the  pans  and  bake.  While  the  pies  are  baking  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  one  spoonful  of  white 
sugar,  beat  again,  and  when  the  pies  are  baked  si)read  the 
frosting  on  top,  put  them  in  the  oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

rREA:»i  PIE. 

Take  as  much  thick  sweet  cream  as  will  till  a  pie  plate, 
add  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  sugar  enough  to 
taste,  flavor  with  lemon;  bake  as  custard. 

Mrs.  Powell. 


PIES.  133 


VERY  FIXE  CREAM    PIE. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  a  little 
salt,  nutmeg'  to  taste,  two  tablespoons  of  arrowroot,  pour 
on  it  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  stir  the  whole  together;  bake 
as  custard.  Mrs.  Powell. 

i.e:^iox  pies. 

The  grated  peel  and  Juice  of  three  lemons,  three  cups  of 
crushed  white  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  well,  then 
add  the  peel  and  Juice,  stir  until  light,  then  bake;  after  bak- 
ing, beat  up  the  whites  stiff  with  sugar,  and  spread  over  the 
pies,  then  place  in  the  oven  to  brow^n. 

Mrs.  G.  F.  Fili,ey. 

I.EMOX    PIES. 

(TWO    PIES.) 

Three  lemons,  three  cups  of  sugar,  live  eggs,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  beat  the  yolks,  lemon,  sugar  and 
butter  together,  then  two  small  cups  of  milk  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch,  add  the  whites  beaten  light;  bake 
in  puff  paste  with  one  crust.  Mrs.  S.  R.  Filley. 

SPI.EBfI>II>   LEMON    PIES. 

Six  eggs,  two  lemons  if  juicy,  three  if  dry,  one  pint  of 
sugai',  one-half  pint  of  butter;  mix  yolks  of  eggs,  butter  and 
sugar  together,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sifted  Hour;  beat 
very  light,  put  in  lemon  and  white  of  egg  beat  to  a  stiff 
froth  ;  bake  as  custard  in  ])utt"  paste  with  one  crust. 

I.EMON    PIES. 

(THREE    PIES.) 

Grate  the  rind  of  three  lemons,  beat  to  a  cream  the  yolks 
of  seven  eggs,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour  to  each  pie,  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  sugar  to  taste,  put  in  the  Juice,  then  gradu- 
ally pour  in  three  teacups  of  water;  beat  the  whites  to  a 
froth  and  apply  after  baking.  Miss  Louise  Yogt. 


134  MY  MOTHERS  COOK  BOOK. 


liEMOBf   PIES. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  three  large  lemons,  ten  eggs, 
yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs 
grated,  half  pint  of  melted  butter,  three  or  four  cups  of 
sugar,  according  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and 
to  these  add  all  the  ingredients,  the  whites  stirred  in  last; 
they  should  be  put  into  the  pies  and  baked  as  quickly  as 
possible.  Mrs.  F.  G.  Goddard. 

LiEHIOX   PIE. 

Cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  seven  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  six  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  four,  a  tumbler 
of  sweet  milk,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  large  lemons. 
While  the  pies  are  baking,  make  a  meringue  of  four  whites 
of  eggs  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  put  in  the  oven 
and  brown.  Miss  Semple. 

I.EMOX   CHEESE    CAKES. 

One  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter, 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  whites  of  four,  juice  of  three  lemons, 
grated  rind  of  two.  Put  all  in  a  pan,  simmer  over  a  clear 
hre  till  it  becomes  thick  like  honey,  stir  it  one  way;  make  a 
nice  paste,  line  patty-pans,  put  in  some  of  the  above,  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

Of^IiDEBT  PIE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  new  milk,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  corn  starch,  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  juice 
and  peel  of  one  lemon.  Pour  into  a  rich  i)aste  ;  when  baked 
add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and  brown.  Mrs.  D.  Young. 

ORAACiE    PIE. 

Grate  the  peel  of  one  fresh  orange  and  take  the  juice  and 
pulp  of  two,  add  to  them  one  teacup  of  sugar  and  the  beaten 
yolks  of  three  eggs;  mix  one  cup  of  milk  with  the  whites 
of  tlie  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  bake  in  puff  i)aste. 
This  rule  makes  one  pie.  Mrs.  E.  P.  Pettks. 


PIES.  135 


PEAC'H   PIE. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  good  paste,  and  lay  in  the  fruit 
peeled,  stoned  and  sliced,  sprinkling  sugar  over  them  in 
proportion  to  their  sweetness;  chop  three  peach  kernels 
tine  for  every  pie;  pour  in  a  little  water,  and  bake  with  an 
u]>])er  crust. 

PEACH    COBBI.ER. 

Take  a  deep  dish,  line  with  paste,  i>ut  an  inverted  teacup 
in  the  center  of  the  dish,  till  with  whole  peaches,  ijared, 
l)acking  them  well,  and  sweetening  to  taste,  water  almost 
enough  to  till  the  dish  :  cover  with  crust  and  hake. 

Miss  E.  L.  Glover. 

CRANBERRY   TART. 

Stew  until  soft  in  a  saucei)au,  with  enough  water  to  cover 
them,  the  cranberries  well  washed  and  looked  over,  run 
through  a  cullender  to  remove  the  skins,  and  sweeten  to 
taste;  bake  in  pastry  shells,fWith  a  cross-bar  of  pastry  over 
the  top. 

CEI.EBRATEI>   RHIBARB   PIE. 

For  one  large  pie,  or  three  small  deep  ones.  Take  the 
stalks,  cut  off  the  leaves,  and  rinse  in  cold  water  (do  not 
strip  off  the  skiu,  as  it  contains  much  of  the  flavor),  cut  in 
half-inch  lengths,  and  add  from  one  to  three  tea(^u])s  of 
sugar,  according  to  the  acidity  of  the  rhubarb;  stir  in  a 
large  bowl,  so  that  the  materials  may  be  well  mixed;  add 
one  lemon  cut  up  very  fine,  peel  and  all  the  Juice  well 
squeezed  in,  one  nutmeg,  grated,  one  tablespoon ful  of 
essence  of  lemon,  one  good  pinch  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful 
of  sifted  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  make  a  nice 
crust,  and  bake  from  a  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour; 
make  a  slit  in  the  top  of  your  pie,  and  bake  in  a  deep  pan, 
so  that  its  chief  excellence  shall  not  waste  by  boiling  over. 

RHUBARB   TART. 

One  pint  of  stewed  pie-plant,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  half 
a  pint  of  cream,  two  ounces  of  crackers,  three  eggs. 


136  MT  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


SWEET   POTATO   PIE. 

One  quart  of  sweet  potatoes  boiled  and  well  strained 
through  a  sieve,  three  beaten  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  grated 
nutmegs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  a  less 
quantity  of  ground  cloves,  a  little  lemon  peel  or  essence  of 
lemon,  enough  cream  to  make  the  mixture  a  thin  batter. 
Make  a  rich  paste,  and,  covering  ^our  baking-i)lates,  pour  in 
the  mixture  and  bake  without  a  top  paste. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

SWEET    POTATO   PIE. 

Half  a  i)Ound  of  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  l)utter,  eight  eggs,  if  you 
make  a  meringue,  six  if  not,  stir  to  a  cream  the  sugar  and 
butter,  add  i)Otatoes,  then  yolks  of  eggs  beaten,  then  whites 
of  four  eggs,  meringue  with  the  rest;  flavor  with  nutmeg 
and  lemon.  Mrs.  Ballentine. 

APPLE   CLSTARD   PIE. 

Stew  the  apples  and  strain  through  a  cullender,  add  two 
eggs,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  a  small  i)iece  of  butter,  and  tiavor 
with  lemon  and  sugar  to  taste.  If  you  wish  it  nice,  leave 
out  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  make  a  meringue. 

Mrs.  Michael. 

APPI.E    SliU^P. 

Pare  and  slice  thin  two  quarts  of  ai)ples,  put  in  a  porce- 
lain kettle  with  a  cuj)  of  molasses,  a  cup  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  half  a  cup  of  water.  Make  a 
crust  of  one  pint  of  tlour,  a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  a  little 
salt,  two  teasi)oonfuls  of  yeast  i»owder,  mix  with  a  little 
water;  roll  your  dough  out  the  size  of  your  kettle,  lay  it 
over  the  apples,  cutting  a  slit  in  the  centre,  cover  over  with 
a  tight  lid  to  keep  the  steam  in,  cook  for  an  hour;  when 
done,  lift  the  crust  off  on  to  a  plate  and  pour  the  apples  on  it. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Freeborn. 


PIE8.  137 


APPI.E   DOWDY. 

Pare  and  slice  apples  very  thin,  put  tbem  in  a  tin  pan 
with  half  a  cup  of  water,  make  a  crust  same  as  for  pies, 
roll  it  out  and  lay  it  over  the  apples,  pressing  it  down  all 
round  the  edge,  put  into  the  oven  and  bake.  When  done, 
take  off'  the  crust,  break  it  up  in  pieces  about  two  inches 
square,  then  sweeten  the  apples,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  a  little  more  water,  pour  over  the  crust,  mix  all 
together,  let  stand  until  they  get  cold;  serve  with  cream. 

COKXECTICUT    APPLE    PIE. 

Take  tart  winter  apples  ;  pare,  core  and  slice  them  ;  line 
the  pie  plates  with  a  good  crust ;  till  with  the  apples,  adding 
a.  little  water,  put  on  the  top  cover  and  bake.  When  baked, 
take  off'  the  cover;  season  with  sugar,  a  little  cinnamon  and 
bits  of  butter ;  replace  the  cover ;  sj)rinkle  with  sugar  and 
serve.  Mrs.  O.  D.  Filley. 

APPLE    PIE. 

Six  apples  grated,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two 
lemons  squeezed  and  grated;  put  on  the  stove  to  thicken, 
and  if  it  does  not,  stir  in  a  little  corn  starch;  till  the  pie 
plates  lined  with  crust,  and  bake. 

Mrs.  James  Bartlett. 

SPICED    APPLE    TARTS. 

Eub  stewed  or  baked  apples  through  a  sieve ;  sweeten 
them  and  add  powdered  mace  and  cinnamon  sufficient  to 
flavor  them;  squeeze  the  Juice  of  a  lemon  in  and  grate  the 
peel ;  line  the  patty-j)ans  with  a  light  crust,  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

IIOCK   PimKIN   PIE. 

Four  large  grated  apples,  two  eggs,  a  little  butter  and 
sugar;  flavor  with  lemon;  till  the  crust  and  bake;  then 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  pie  a  thick  meringue  made  by 
beating  to  a  stiff'  froth  the  whites  of  three  eggs  for  each  pie, 
sweetened  with  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  flavored 
with  rose-water,  vanilla  or  lemon ;  put  in  the  oven  until 
lightly  browned.  Saratoga. 


138  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


PUMPKIN   PIE. 

One  quart  of  pumpkin  stewed  and  strained,  six  eggs, 
the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  quart  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonfnl  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg, 
one  cup  and  a  half  of  white  sugar;  tlavor  with  two  table- 
si)oonfuls  of  wine  or  brandy;  beat  all  well  together,  and 
bake  in  crust  without  cover.  Make  squash  pie  in  the  same 
way.  Mi8s  P].  L.  Glover. 

C  HERRY    PIE. 

Line  the  dish  with  a  good  crust,  and  till  with  ripe  cherries, 
stoned  or  not,  as  preferred,  dredge  Hour  over  the  top,  and 
sprinkle  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  them,  rub  the  edge  of  the 
pie  crust  with  cold  water,  put  a  top  cover  on,  with  a  slit  iu 
tlie  centre  to  prevent  boiling  over,  and  bake;  sift  white 
sugar  over  the  toj)  before  serving.  Blackberry,  raspberry 
and  plum  ])ies  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

GREEX  GOOSEBERRY  TART. 

Look  over  the  gooseberries,  and  stew  slowly,  with  enough 
water  over  them  to  keep  from  burning,  until  they  break, 
sweeten  well  and  put  aside  to  cool  ;  pour  into  pastry  shells, 
and  bake  with  a  top  crust  of  puft'  paste;  brush  all  over  with 
beaten  egg  while  hot;  i)ut  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes  to 
glaze. 

<  I  RRAN T    AN1>    RASPBERRY    TART. 

Allow  a  third  more  currants  than  raspberries;  mix  well 
together,  sweeten,  and  till  the  crust,  put  top  cover  on  and 
bake;  sift  white  sugar  over  the  top,  and  serve  while  warm. 


NICE  DESSERTS.  139 


NICE  DESSERTS. 


I.EMON    BUTTER. 

One  pound  of  pnlverized  white  sugar,  the  whites  of  six 
eggs  and  yolks  of  two,  together  with  three  lemons,  including 
grated  rind  and  juice;  cook  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  it  constantly. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

HEI>GE-HOC;. 

Take  two  pounds  of  blanched  almonds,  beat  them  with  a 
little  rose-water,  beat  in  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  seven,  half  a  pint  of  sweetened  cream,  quarter 
pound  of  the  best  butter  creamed ;  set  it  over  a  slow  tire 
until  it  gets  quite  stiff,  then  make  it  in  the  form  of  a  hedge- 
hog, stick  it  over  with  blanched  almonds  ;  cut  in  thin  pieces; 
you  can  set  it  on  wine  jelly.  Mrs.  D.  Young. 

.Sx\OW   PUDDING. 

Soak  half  a  box  of  Nelson's  gelatine  in  a  teacup  of  cold 
water  half  an  hour  or  longer,  pour  on  it  one  pint  of  boiling 
water;  strain  when  dissolved  and  put  in  a  cool  place,  but  do 
not  let  it  harden;  take  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beat  these, 
adding  by  degrees  three  teacups  of  white  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  two  lemons  ;  when  thoroughly  mixed  and  light,  add 
by  degrees  the  cool  gelatine  beaten  until  light  as  snow,  per- 
fectly even  and  somewhat  stiff ;  put  in  moulds  to  harden ; 
when  ready  for  use,  place  in  a  dish  and  pour  around  it  a 
nice  delicate  custard.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

CREAM  SXOW. 

One  teacup  of  sweet  cream,  one  teacup  of  sugar,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch ;  melt  the  cream  and 
sugar  together  and  dissolve  the  starch;  when  cool  stir  in 
the  eggs  and  also  snow  until  quite  stiff". 


140  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


ITAIilA^    SXOW. 

Half  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  to  one  pint  of  cold  water, 
whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  flavoring  of  any 
kind  of  extract,  beat  with  egg-beater  for  twenty  minutes, 
pour  into  moulds,  thoroughly  dissolve  the  gelatine  before 
adding  the  eggs.     To  be  eaten  with  cream. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Clark,  Carondelet. 

APPLE  S^OW. 

Put  twelve  tart  apples  in  cold  water  and  set  them  over  a 
slow  tire;  when  soft  drain  off"  the  water,  strip  off  the  skins, 
core,  and  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish  ;  beat  the  whites  of  twelve 
eggs  to  a  froth,  put  in  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  to 
the  ap])les,  beat  to  a  stiff"  froth,  and  add  the  beaten  eggs ; 
beat  the  whole  to  a  stiff"  snow,  turn  into  a  dessert  dish,  and 
ornament  with  myrtle  or  box. 

APPI.E    FLOAT. 

Sweeten  and  season  with  mace  or  nutmeg,  a  small  bowl 
of  apple  sauce  (which  has  been  through  a  sieve) ;  then  add 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff"  froth.  Eat  with 
cream  and  sugar.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Morton. 

ORANOE    SOI  FFI.E. 

Peel  and  slice  three  oranges,  one  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of 
five  eggs ;  sweeten  to  taste.  When  done  pour  on  oranges; 
beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  ;  pour  gently  over  oranges  ;  put  in 
oven  and  brown.  Mrs.  Sarah  Davis. 

OMELET   SOIFFLE. 

One  cup  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  spoonful  of  sugar, 
butter  size  t)f  a  walnut,  scald  milk,  flour  and  butter  together; 
after  the  batter  is  cold  stir  in  the  3'olks  of  five  eggs;  stir  in 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten  just  before  baking. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  ;  eat  with  sauce.  This  is  a  splendid 
pudding.  Miss  E.  H.  Glover. 


mCE  DESSERTS.  141 


OMEIiET  SOITFFI.E. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  when  beaten  up  light  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  marmalade  or  the  juice  of  fresh  fruit 
of  any  kind ;  mix  this  spoonful  of  tiavoring  with  one  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  turn  well  for  one-fourth  of  an  hour. 
Rub  on  earthen  pudding  dish  with  butter;  turn  the  omelet 
into  it  and  bake  a  light  brown  in  a  very  quick  oven.  Serve 
immediately.  Mrs.  J.  G.  Chapman. 

S:\OW  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  boiling  water  poured  on  one-half  box  of 
gelatine,  \)\xi  in  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  two  cups  of 
sugar;  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  solid  froth  and  stir 
into  the  mixture,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Take  the  four 
yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  boil  one  and  a  half 
pints  of  milk  and  pour  in  the  eggs  while  boiling,  as  for  soft 
custards;  flavor  as  you  please  and  set  away  to  cool.  The 
white  part  will  be  the  pudding;  the  custard  will  serve  as 
the  sauce ;  it  is  better  to  make  this  the  day  before,  so  it  will 
be  very  cold. 

Mrs.  Eichards,  Mrs.  H.  C.  Moore  and  others. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

Three  eggs,  one  ])int  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar;  scald 
the  milk  and  pour  it  on  the  eggs  and  sugar,  which  should  be 
well  beaten  together;  pour  it  into  a  kettle,  place  it  over  the 
tire,  aud  stir  until  thick  and  creamy. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

COFFEE    CUSTARD. 

Three  tablespoonfnls  of  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  mix; 
add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of  strong  coffee;  when 
mixed  boil  ten  minutes,  then  bake ;  frost  with  the  whites  of 
eggs.  Mrs.  D.  Young. 

TAPIOCA    CUSTARD. 

Three-(iuarters  of  a  teacup  of  tapioca,  three-quarters  of 
a  teacup  of  white  sugar,  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  two  eggs 


142  MY  MO  THER  'S  COOK  BO  OK. 


and  flavoring;  soak  tbe  tapioca  in  the  milk  three  hours, 
keeping  it  in  a  warm  place  ;  when  ready  to  make,  put  it  in  a 
porcelain  kettle,  which  set  in  another  kettle  of  hot  water, 
put  over  the  fire  and  heat  slowly,  heating  it  until  it  is  (luite 
melted ;  beat  well  the  eggs  and  sugar,  stirring  into  the  milk 
when  it  is  scalding  hot;  continue  stirring  constantly  until 
the  mixture  is  quite  smooth  and  thick  (do  not  let  it  boil), 
then  pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  spread  over  the  top  the  Avhites, 
which  have  been  previously  whipped  and  sweetened  with  a 
little  sugar ;  set  in  a  quick  oven,  brown  the  top  and  take  out 
as  quickly  as  possible. 

This  dish  requires  some  experience  to  make  it  just  right; 
although  the  whites  make  a  prettier  appearance  on  top.  I 
think  the  custard  tastes  nicer  to  beat  them  in  with  the  yolks; 
then,  of  course,  it  is  not  necessary  to  put  it  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  Fallon. 

ai.:tioxi>  €1  stari>. 

• 

One-quarter  of  a  i)ound  of  almonds  blanched  and  beaten 
with  a  little  rose-water,  one  pint  of  cream,  yolks  of  four 
eggs ;  mix  all  together,  put  over  a  slow  tire  until  it  thickens ; 
keep  it  well  stirred;  serve  in  dish<*s  or  glasses. 

Mrs.  1).  YoTNG. 

<  KKA.n   <  IIA.XTIM.V. 

One  ounce  of  American  isinglass  dissolved  in  a  small 
pint  of  milk  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste;  beat* one  and 
a  half  pints  of  cream  to  a  frotli,  mix  with  the  dissolved 
isinglass;  when  cold,  but  not  hard,  beat  all  hard  together 
until  liglit;  Madeira  wine  and  vanilla  make  the  nicest 
flavoring.  If  you  use  wine,  jtut  it  in  when  you  beat  all 
togetlier.  Tlie  cream  beats  much  easier  and  lighter  for 
being  cold.  It  must  be  very  sweet,  as  you  have  to  add  the 
cream  afterwards.  ^Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

FI\K    BI.AXi     :»IAX<ii:. 

One  quart  of  cream,  half  a  i)ound  of  lump  sugar,  half  a 
pint  of  wine,  half  paper  of  gelatine,  juice  and  peel  of  lemon. 


NICE  DEii8ERT8.  143 


Mix  half  of  the  cream  and  all  the  sugar  thoroughly,  put  in 
the  lemon,  then  the  wine,  the  gelatine  dissolved  in  the  rest 
of  the  cream  thoroughly.  Mrs.  E.  F.  Eichards. 

SPANISH   BLAXC   HAXGE. 

Half  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  lemon.  Juice  and  rind,  mix 
with  one  pint  of  cream  and  half  a  pint  of  wine;  stir  the 
mixture  till  all  the  articles  are  thoroughly  mixed,  then  stir 
in  gradually  a  second  pint  of  cream  ;  dissolve  one  ounce  of 
gelatine  in  hot  water,  and  when  it  becomes  lukewarm  add  it 
gradually  to  the  mixture. 

€HOCOI.ATE    BLAMC    MAXCiE. 

One  ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved  iu  as  much  water  as  will 
cover  it  (about  two-thirds  of  a  pint),  four  ounces  of  chocolate 
grated,  one  quart  of  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Boil  the  sugar,  milk  and  chocolate  together  live 
minutes,  put  in  the  gelatine,  and  let  the  whole  boil  five 
minutes  more,  stirring  to  prevent  burning;  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  vanilla  extract,  and  put  in  moulds  to  cool.  It  should 
be  made  the  day  before  it  is  needed.  Mrs.  Brock. 

CHOCOI.ATE  BI.AXC     :»IAXGE. 

Take  one  <piart  of  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch,  a  pinch  of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
two  squares  of  grated  chocolate.  Take  from  the  quart  of 
milk  one  teacuj)  of  the  cold  milk  to  mix  with  the  chocolate ; 
to  the  rest  of  the  cold  milk  add  the  sugar,  chocolate  and  salt, 
let  it  come  to  a  good  boil ;  mix  the  corn  starch  with  a  little 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  then  add  that  to  the  boiling 
milk,  stir  it  until  it  thickens,  pour  into  moulds;  eat  with 
crtjam.  Mrs.  E.  J.  Clark. 

A.^IBROSIA. 

Peel  and  slice  your  oranges  thin ;  make  a  layer  of 
oranges,  sprinkle  with  isugar,  then  a  layer  of  grated  cocoa- 
nut;  or  some  prefer  to  have  the  grated  cocoanut  served  in  a 
dish  by  itself,  and  sprinkled  over  the  oranges  as  you  serve 
them  out. 


144  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


ICED   APPLES. 

Pare  aud  core  one  dozen  large  apples,  fill  with  sugar,  very 
little  butter,  cinnamon;  bake  till  nearly  done,  let  them  cool, 
])Our  off  the. juice,  put  icing  on  the  top  and  sides,  set  in  the 
oven  a  minute  or  two  and  brown  slightly ;  serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

CHARI.OTTE  RUSSE. 

Line  the  ])an  with  lady-hngerK  (or  nice  light  cake  of  any 
kind),  take  a  quart  of  ereain,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  flavor 
with  essence  of  vanilla,  then  whip  it;  pour  a  cup  of  hot 
water  on  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine;  after  it  is  dissolved  stir 
very  hard  into  the  whii^jjed  cream,  then  pour  into  the  mould 
carefully,  not  to  upset  the  cake. 

CHARLOTTE    RCSSE. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  cream,  six  eggs,  sugar, 
wine  and  vanilla  to  taste,  one  ounce  of  gelatine  put  in  the 
cream  and  placed  on  the  stove  to  dissolve  ;  make  a  custard  of 
milk  and  yolks  of  the  eggs,  jmur  it  while  hot  over  the  whites 
l)reviously  beaten  to  a  stiff  frotli,  stir  in  the  cream  and 
flavor,  let  it  stand  awhile  to  (!ool ;  line  your  mould  with 
8i)onge  or  any  light  cake  cut  thin,  and  ])0ur  in  the  mixture 
slowly  so  as  not  to  displace  the  cake. 

CHARLOTTE    RIKSE. 

Extract  the  flavor  of  a  vanilla  bean  by  boiling  it  in  a  half 
a  pint  of  milk,  then  strain  tin-  milk,  and  when  cold  add  one- 
quarter  of  a  i)0und  of  loaf  sugar,  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
very  light  and  stir  them  into  the  mixture,  heat  it  over  the 
fire  for  five  minutes  until  it  be(ronies  a  custard,  but  be  care- 
ful that  it  does  not  boil;  boil  an  ounce  of  isinglass  with  a 
pint  of  water,  and  be  sure  it  is  thorougiily  dissolved  before 
using  it,  and  one-half  of  the  water  boiled  away.  The  cus- 
tard being  cold,  drain  the  isinglass  into  it  and  stir  them  hard 
together;  leave  them  to  cool  while  you  i)repare  the  rest  of 
the  mixture ;  whij)  a  (juart  of  rich  cream  to  a  froth  and  mix 


NICE  DESSERTS.  145 

it  with  the  custard;  the  safest  way  to  whip  cream  lijj^ht  is  to 
remove  the  froth  with  a  strainer  as  fast  as  it  gathers,  until 
the  whole  is  whipped;  lay  a  piece  of  white  paper  the  size  of 
the  mould  in  the  bottom,  then  line  the  sides  with  lady-fingers 
or  other  sponge-cake,  pour  in  the  custard,  cover  over  with  a 
piece  of  white  paper,  and  set  it  on  ice  mixed  with  coarse 
salt.     It  should  set  at  least  three  or  four  hours. 

Mrs.  Frank  Filley. 

TO  HAKE  WHIPS. 

Take  two  pints  of  rich  cream,  add  one  wine-glass  of  brandy, 
one  wine-glass  of  sherry,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of 
white  sugar ;  beat  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  whip- 
churn;  have  ready  twelve  whii)-glas8es  filled  nearly  a  third 
full  of  strawberry  preserve,  then  put  the  whipped  cream  on 
top.  Mrs.  G.  Leighton. 

LKHOX  CREAMS. 

Put  the  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons  into  one  pint  of 
water,  beat  six  eggs,  and  add  to  the  water  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  keep  over  the  fire  till 
as  thick  as  custard.  Mrs.  VVentworth. 

ALHO\D    CUSTARI>S. 

Quarter  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  pounded  fine, 
one  pint  of  cream,  quarter  pound  of  sugar,  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water.  Stir  this  over  the 
fire  till  thick.  Mrs.  Wentworth. 

E:\CiMSH    CREAH. 

One  ounce  of  shred  isinglass,  three  pints  of  milk,  five 
eggs ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste ;  eggs  not  cooked  in. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

VELVET   CREAM. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  tumbler  of  wine,  add 
the  i)eel  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  cuj)s  of  sugar  to  one 
quart  of  cream;  pour  in  a  mould. 
10 


146  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


VEIiVET   CREAH. 

Oue  ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  pint  of  milk,  i)ut 
on  tbe  tire  and  stir  until  dissolved,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beaten  and  stirred  in  while  hot,  make  very  sweet,  and  flavor 
with  vanilla;  when  cold,  but  not  set,  add  one  pint  of  cream 
beaten  to  a  froth,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth  and  flavored  with  wine ;  beat  very  hard. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

VELVET   CREAM. 

Three  sheets  of  isinglass,  half  a  cup  of  wine,  half  a  cup 
of  cold  water,  one  cup  of  sugar,  oue  pint  of  cream,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  ;  pour  the  water  upon  the  isinglass  until 
it  is  dissolved,  set  it  on  the  stove,  then  strain  into  the 
moulds.  Mrs.  W.  Maurice. 

ITAL.IAX    CREAM. 

Take  three  pints  of  cream  or  milk,  sweeten  with  white 
sugar,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  add  oue  ounce  of  isin- 
glass, stir  constantly  until  it  boils,  beat  up  well  the  yolks  of 
eight  eggs,  stir  them  into  the  boiling  milk,  strain  into  mould, 
and  let  it  stand  upon  ice  five  or  six  hours;  serve  with  sugar 
and  cream.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

SPAMSII  i'REAM. 

One  (juart  of  milk,  half  a  box  of  gelatine;  dissolve  the 
gelatine  in  the  milk  half  an  hour  or  more,  set  it  on  the  tire 
until  thoroughly  dissolved,  })our  into  it  the  yolks. of  four 
eggs  well  beaten  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar;  let  it  stand  on  the  stove  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all 
the  time,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  take  it  off  and  i)our  in  the 
whites  of  the  four  eggs  and  three  tablesi)oonfnls  of  powdered 
sugar  well  beaten,  stir  all  together  quickly,  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  extract  of  letnon.  Mrs.  Ellis. 

SPANISH   CREAM. 

Dissolve  two-thirds  of  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  quart 
of  milk,  boil  twenty  minutes  in  a  tin  vessel  set  in  hot  water, 


mCE  DESSERTS.  147 


beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  with  a  coffee-cup  of  sugar  until 
quite  light,  take  off  the  boiling  milk  and  stir  in  rapidly  the 
yolks  and  sugar,  place  in  the  hot  water  again  and  cook  a  few 
minutes,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  curdle;  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  put  them  in  a  large  bowl,  and 
pour  the  mixture  on  them  slowly,  stirring  quickly  ;  mix  well, 
tlavor  and  put  in  moulds. 

INABEI^IiA   CREAM. 

Quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs ; 
with  the  eggs  and  milk  make  a  boiled  custard;  dissolve  the 
gelatine  in  a  little  extra  milk  and  add  to  the  custard  after  it 
cools;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  sweeten  to  taste,  then  whip 
one  pint  of  cream  and  add  to  it,  also  one  wine-glass  of  wine  ; 
set  to  cool. 

ORANGE   CREAM. 

Pare  the  rind  of  an  orange  very  thin  and  squeeze  the  juice 
of  four  oranges,  and  put  it  with  peel  into  a  pan  with  one 
pint  of  water,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  five 
eggs  well  beaten ;  mix  all  together,  place  it  over  a  slow  fire, 
stir  in  one  direction  until  it  looks  thick  and  white,  strain  it 
through  a  gauze  sieve,  and  stir  it  until  cold. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

TAPIOCA   CREAM. 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  soaked  in  a  pint  of  water 
over  night;  in  the  morning  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  lemon  or  vanilla,  one  quart  of 
milk,  and  boil  as  you  would  soft  custard ;  beat  the  whites  to 
a  stiff'  froth,  ])ut  them  into  a  pudding-dish,  and  pour  over 
the  boiling  liquid ;  can  be  eaten  either  cold  or  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  Maurice. 

CHOCOLATE  CJEL-ATIXE. 

Dissolve  one  square  of  chocolate  in  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
boiling  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  cold  water,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar. 


148  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


RICE  CRE AH. 

One  teacup  of  rice  boiled  in  milk  until  (]uite  s«)l"t,  sweeten 
with  white  sugar,  pour  it  into  a  dish,  put  lumps  of  je^ly  or 
))reserved  fruit  ou  it,  beat  the  whites  of  three  egji's  very 
light,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  tiavor  with  lemon;  to  this  ad<l 
about  a  tablesi)Oonful  of  rich  cream,  and  pour  it  over  the 
rice  and  Jelly. 

<'HARI.OTTE    POtOXAISE. 

Make  a  custard  of  one  quart  of  cream,  four  eggs,  sweeten 
it;  pound  half  a  pound  of  citron  to  a  ])aste  in  a  mortar, 
pound  half  a  pound  of  macaroons  ])ulverized,  mix  this  with 
one-half  the  custard;  grate  half  a  i)ound  of  chocolate,  mix 
with  the  other  half  of  the  custard ;  thicken  both  with  one- 
quarter  box  of  gelatine;  cut  a  sponge  cake  in  layers,  and 
spread  a  layer  of  these  mixtures  alternately  over  the  top. 
The  custard  should  be  cool  enough  to  be  still. 

CO<OAMT   HIFFS. 

Mix  two  cups  of  grated  cocoanut  with  one  cup  ol"  pow- 
<l(M<'d  sugar,  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Hour  or  corn  starch:  sha[)e  in  little  pyramids, 
l)ut  on  buttered  tins,  and  bake  quick. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Kichauus. 

CIIOKH.ATE    IHFFS. 

Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beat  in  gradually  half 
a  i)ound  of  sugar  (scant),  grate  two  ounces  of  chocolate, 
dredge  it  with  tlour,  mixing  in  the  tiour  well,  add  this  grad- 
ually to  the  eggs  and  sugar,  stir  the  whole  very  hard;  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  white  paper,  place  on  it  thin 
s|H)ts  of  powdered  sugar  the  size  of  a  half-dollar,  pile  a 
]>ortion  of  the  mixture  in  each,  smoothing  with  a  knife,  sift 
a  little  sugar  over  each  ;  bake  in  a  (piick  oven  a  few  minutes; 
loosen  from  the  paper  with  a^  broad  knife. 

Mr8.  1).  Young. 


NICE  DESSERT ti.  .  149 


tEHOK^    C  RE  A  HI. 

One  pint  of  tliick  cream,  yolks  of  two  egfis  well  beaten, 
one  enj)  of  white  sugar,  rind  of  one  lemon  grated;  boil  and 
stir  till  nearly  cold ;  drop  a  piece  of  lemon  in  a  dish,  and 
pour  the  cream  upon  it.  Mrs.  G.  F.  Filley. 

SPANISH  C  REAH. 

Three  pints  of  milk,  one  ounce  of  Cooper's  isinglass,  six 
eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  beat  up  the  isinglass  into 
the  milk  and  put  over  the  tire  to  heat  very  slowly  ;  beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar  and  stir  in  when  the  isin- 
glass is  dissolved  and  the  milk  nearly  boiling;  let  it  thicken 
but  not  curdle,  and  remove  it  from  the  lire ;  stir  in  very 
hard  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  flavor  to  taste 
(vanilla  is  best),  and  pour  immediately  into  a  mould  or  jian 
and  set  in  a  cold  ])lace.  It  must  be  made  live  or  six  hours 
before  wanted,  so  as  to  turn   out  nicely.     Eat  with  cream. 

Mrs.  FocvrK,  Erie. 

FLli:?I]fIERY. 

Put  five  or  six  slices  of  stale  sponge  jelly  or  any  other 
light  cake  in  a  glass  bowl :  season  the  cake  with  a  little  wine, 
then  pour  over  it  a  nice  boiled  custard  made  of  one  quart 
of  milk  and  yolks  of  four  eggs;  beat  the  whites  up  very 
light  and  a  little  powdered  sugar  with  them ;  ])ut  over  the 
custard,  i)iling  up  prettily,  and  add  dashes  of  currant  or  any 
red  Jelly.  Mrs.  E.  F.  Eichards. 

APPLES  WITH  RICE. 

Half  a  ])ound  of  rice  clear,  one  quart  of  fresh  milk  two 
ounces  of  fresh  butter,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  boil 
together  till  rice  is  soft;  yolks  of  six  eggs,  mix  with  rice, 
beat  wiiites  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  mix ;  core  twelve 
or  fourteen  apples  and  stew^  with  a  little  butter  and  a  small 
piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel  to  tiavor;  put 
the  mixture  into  china  bakers,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Revere  House. 


150  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


ORAXGi:  PUDDIXG. 

Slice  your  oranges  and  sweeten  to  taste,  catching'  the 
juice  to  put  in  the  custard;  lay  these  oranges  around  a  glass 
bowl,  then  niake  a  custard  of  three  eggs  to  one  pint  of  milk 
and  a  little  gelatine;  pour  it  when  cold  over  the  oranges; 
afterwards  beat  the  whites  of  several  eggs  to  a  froth  and 
lay  on  the  top.  Mrs.  Wm.  E.  Ware. 

OMELET   SOUFFLE. 

Five  eggs  to  one  cup  of  sugar,  beat  yolks  and  sugar 
together  ten  minntes.  before  baking  add  the  Juice  of  one 
lemon;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  all  together 
gently,  bake  in  a  (juick  oven. 

^Irs.  (iEo.  W.  Blagden,  Boston. 

CARAMEL   €FSTARI>. 

Make  a  custard  of  six  eggs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  sugar 
to  taste,  tlavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  boil  the  milk,  ]>ut  into 
a  round  or  oval  tin  four  or  live  tabl(>si)()onfnls  of  light  brown 
sugar,  setting  it  on  the  lange  to  melt,  stirring  it  all  the 
while  till  soft,  or  can  be  rubbed  around  the  ])an  with  the 
spoon,  set  this  pan  in  a  dripping-])an,  with  hot  water  half 
the  dei)th  of  i>an,  i)onr  into  the  sugar  the  custard,  put  into 
the  oven  and  l)ake  till  tirm,  or  you  can  run  a  knife  in  and  it 
conies  out  clean;  let  it  get  cold;  Just  before  dinner  run  a 
knife  around  the  custard  and  turn  it  out  on  a  platter;  it 
must  be  <lone  carefully  and  (piickly  so  as  not  to  bieak,  as  it 
shonld  be  whole  and  lirm. 

Mrs.  Ezra  Farnsworth,  Boston. 

FRIARS   OMELET. 

Boil  or  stew  twelve  apples,  as  for  sauce,  stir  in  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  quarter  of  a  ])ound  of  sugar; 
when  cold,  add  four  eggs  well  beaten,  a  little  lemon  Juice; 
put  the  whole  in  a  form  of  white  ware;  the  form  or  dish 
must  be  buttered,  and  crumbs  of  bread  thickly  strewn  over 
the  bottom  and  sides.  After  the  mixture  is  in,  the  top  must 
be  plentilully  strewn  with  crumbs  when  baked,  turn  it  out 
as  blanc  mange,  and  grate  sugar  over  it. 

Mrs.  Sam'l  Treat. 


C0NFECT10:tfERY.  151 


CONFECTIONERY. 


CANI>Y. 

Three  cups  of  A  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  two  tablespoou- 
fuls  of  vinegar,  butter  one-balf  the  size  of  an  egg;  boil 
without  stirring;  add  essence,  and  pull  as  quickly  as  pos- 
sible. Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kltne. 

PRAUI.EEXS. 

Take  enough  milk  to  moisten  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
(about  one-half  a  cup);  when  nearly  boiled  put  in  a  table- 
spoon of  vinegar,  then  stir  in  the  nuts  until  it  sugars. 

Mrs.  Walter  Donnell. 

SUGAR  CA»fI>T. 

Three  pints  of  clarified  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one- 
half  cup  of  vinegar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e^^. 

CREAM  €AXI>A. 

Two  cups  of  white  granulated  sugar  y^ei  with  one-half 
cup  of  vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  water;  when  boiling,  add 
one  table8i)oon  of  butter;  Avhen  nearly  done  put  in  vanilla; 
take  off  when  it  strings  from  the  spoon,  and  pull  while  hot; 
must  not  stir  or  it  will  sugar.         Mrs.  James  Bartlett, 

WHITE  CREAM   CAXDY. 

To  a  pint  of  sugar  add  a  teacup  of  warm  water,  one 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  tiavor  with  vanilla;  boil  till  hard, 
and  try  in  cold  water;  then  let  cool,  and  pull  until  white. 

Miss  ISTannie  Orrick. 


152  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


CARAMELS. 

One  Clip  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  molasses, 
one  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  GoDDARD. 

SUGAR   CANDY. 

Three  ]>int8  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of 
vinegar,  and  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  e^(^\  put 
the  ingredients  in  a  kettle  and  boil,  stirring  it  as  little  as 
possible,  until  it  congeals  on  dropping  into  cold  water;  turn 
into  shallow  pans,  cool,  and  pull  it  until  white.  Cut  in 
small  pieces  and  lay  on  a  buttered  dish. 

Miss  M.  Krum. 

TAFFY  CAXDY. 

One  pound  of  crushed  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  a  little  vanilla;  when  well 
boiled  together  pour  on  marble  or  a  cold  plate,  and  ])ull. 

Mrs.  H.  McKittrick. 

CHOCOLATE   CARAMELS. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  two  Cups  of  brown  sugar ;  boil  a 
few  moments,  add  one  cup  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
chocolate,  beaten  together,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Mrs.  Brock. 

CARAMELS. 

One  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  one  i)int  of  milk,  six 
ounces  of  butter,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half 
tablespoonfuls  of  extract  of  vanilla;  grate  the  chocolate, 
and  mix  smooth  with  the  milk,  then  add  the  sugar  and  but- 
ter, and  boil  until  it  hardens  when  droi)ped  in  cold  water. 
Just  before  taking  from  the  tire,  add  the  vanilla,  jmuring 
into  shallow  ])ans  to  cool,  and  Just  before  hard,  mark  with 
a  knife  in  small  squares.  Miss  M.  Krum. 


CONFECTIONERY.  153 


PEPPERMINTS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  boil  eight  min- 
utes, beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  i)epperniint, 
drop  on  tins.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Goddard. 

IC  E-CREAM  C'AXDY. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  crushed  or  cut  loaf,  little  less  than 
half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  water,  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  Havor  with  vanilla,  work  it. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Goddard. 

CREAM    CHOCOI^ATES. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  Baker's  chocolate,  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  put  into  a  bowl  over  the  tea-kettle  to  melt;  mix 
live  cups  of  sifted  sugar  with  one  cu])  of  water  and  boil  hard 
five  minutes,  stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  extract  of  vanilla, 
take  it  off  the  fire  and  stir  quickly  till  it  begins  to  be  white 
and  hard,  •then  roll  into  little  balls  and  put  them  on  a 
greased  pan,  and  when  perfectly  hard  they  must  be  covere<l 
with  the  chocolate  and  put  in  a  cool  place  to  dry. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Campbell. 

MISS   FLiETCHER'S   CANI>T. 

Two  ])ound8  of  coffee-sugar,  one  cup  of  cold  water,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  two 
tablesi)Oonfuls  of  extract;  don't  stir  after  it  is  dissolved; 
boil  according  to  judgment — about  fifteen  minutes  to  every 
two  pounds. 

FRENCH    HISSES. 

The  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  six  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar  beaten  into  the  eggs  until  too 
stiff'  to  run;  flavor;  have  ready  some  greased  paper,  put 
upon  a  board,  and  then  drop  some  of  the  e.^g  and  sugar  in 
egg-shape  on  the  ]>aper,  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  lightly ; 
then  take  a  knife  and  slip  your  kisses  from  the  pajjer,  and 
put  two  together  while  hot. 


154  MY  MOTHER' 8  COOK  BOOK. 


CAKES. 


In  making'  cake  always  nso  the  best  butter  and  sugar. 
For  ordinary  cake  use  ])o\vdered  sugar;  lor  sponge  cake 
so"nie  prefer  tlie  pulverized,  otliers  the  granulated;  and  for 
fruit  cake  brown  sugar,  not  too  moist,  as  it  will  be  heavy  ; 
for  this  cake  it  is  also  nicer  to  brown  the  tlour  by  spreading 
on  a  biscuit  i)au  and  i)utting  in  the  oven.  The  ordinary 
method  of  mixing  cake  is  to  first  cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
by  putting  them  in  a  bowl  and  thoroughly  mixing  with  a 
wooden  si>oon,  or  some  prefer  the  hand,  the  warmth  of  the 
hand  quickening  the  process.  Tlien  take  part  of  the  milk 
and  ])art  of  the  Hour  alternately  ;  if  you  use  soda  and  cream 
tartar,  dissolve  your  soda  in  the  milk  and  sift  the  cream  tar- 
tar in  the  Hour.  Then  break  each  egg  over  a  teacup  to  see 
if  good,  before  mixing  together;  beat  the  yolks  light  and  mix 
with  the  cake  dough ;  then  beat  the  whites  to  a  stitf  froth, 
and  a<ld  lastly  the  Havor,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  pans,  which 
should  be  well  greased  with  lard.  Always  have  the  Hour  well 
sifted.  If  you  use  sour  milk  your  cake  will  be  more  tender, 
but  you  must  use  only  soda  and  no  cream  tartar:  if  you  i)re- 
fer  to  use  yeast  powder  instead  of  soda  and  cream  tartar,  two 
teaspoons  of  yeast  powder  are  equal  to  one  of  soda  and  two 
of  cream  tartar,  and  should  be  ]>ut  in  the  Hour.  Yeast  pow 
der  is  always  safer  to  give  servants  to  use,  as  they  are  very 
apt  to  use  too  much  soda,  though  yeast  powder  cake  will 
dry  much  (juicker  than  cake  made  of  soda  and  cream  tartar. 

uiiiTi:  spoxoi:.  or  4x«ei.s*  fooi>  c akf. 

Whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  one-half  tumblers  of 
granulated  sugar,  one  tumbler  of  sifted  Hour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful   of  vanilla,    one   teaspoonful   of   cream  tartar:    sift  the 


CAKES.  155 

flour  four  times,  add  tlie  cream  tartar  and  sift  again.     Beat 

the  eggs  to- a  stift"  froth  on  a   large  platter;  on  the  same 

platter  add  the  sugar  lightly,  the  flour  very  gently,  then  the 

vanilla;  don't  stop  beating  until  ready  for  the  pan.     Bake 

forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Try  with  a  straw,  and  if 

too  soft  let  it  remain  a  few  moments  longer.     Do  not  open 

the  oven  uutil  the  cake  has  been  in  fifteen  minutes ;  the  cake 

pan  should  not  be  greased.     Tumbler  for  measuring  should 

hold  two  and  a  quarter  gills.     When  cooked  turn   the  pan 

upside  down  to  cool ;  remove  the  cake  by  cutting  around 

the  sides  of  the  i)au  with  a  knife.    When  the  ingredients  are 

measured  make  all  possible  haste  to  get  it  quickly  into  the 

oven  with  the  least  beating  possible,  just  enough  to  properly 

mix  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  flour— on   this  rests  the  secret  of 

success. 

SILVER  CAKE. 

One  cu])  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  one-half 

cups  of  flour,  one  cuj)  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  five  eggs 

well  beaten,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  flavor  to 

taste.  J.  R.  L. 

SPREAI>  MOCXTAIX  CAKE. 

To  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  well  beaten,  add  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one-half  cu])  of  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  grated  nutmeg,  then  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  then  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  flour  in  which  has  been  sifted  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  jelly  cake  pans  ;  when  cold  spread  each 
layer  with  an  icing  made  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and 
one  and  one-half  teacups  of  powdered  sugar. 

RIBBO\^   CAKE. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  soda.  Divide  the  cake  when  mixed.  For  the  dark 
portion,  add  one  cup  of  currants  and  raisins,  one  large 
spoonful  of  molasses,  and  spice  to  taste;  flavor  the  light 
with  vanilla;  put  in  alternate  layers  of  dark  and  light  in 
the  bake  pans.  Mrs.  Prince,  Dublin,  N.  H. 


156  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


MARTHA    WASHINGTON   TEA    CAKE. 

One  and  one-fourtli  ])Ouuds  of  white  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  of  butter,  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sour 
milk,  six  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  sour  milk,  grated 
rind  of  two  lemons  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  nutmeg,  a 
little  mace,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one 
and  a  half  i)oundR  of  citron.  Whip  the  butter  and  sugar  to 
a  cream,  to  which  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten; 
then  put  in  the  milk  and  flour  alternately  ;  then  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  ;  have  the  fruit  floured  aud  stir 
in  last.  Bake  two  aud  one-fourth  hours;  cover  with  .a  but- 
tered paper  to  keep  from  browning  too  fast.  This  recipe  is 
said  to  have  been  used  by  Mrs.  Martha  Washington. 

Mrs.  Stephen  Gardner, 

POKTSMOITH    BLACK    C  AKE. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  two  i)Ouuds  of  sugar,  two  pounds 
of  butter,  two  i)Ounds  of  raisins,  three  i)Ounds  of  currants, 
one  i)ound  of  citron,  twenty-one  eggs,  four  nutmegs,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  mace,  one  large  wine-glassful  of  brandy,  one 
and  a  half  wine-glassfuls  of  wine  and  rose-water  mixed,  one 
lenu>n.  Brown  the  flour  slightly,  use  brown  sugar,  bake 
tivt'  liours.  Mrs.  Wentworth. 

FKl  I T  <<AK£. 

Four  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  two  i)ounds  of  currants, 
two  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  citron,  two  cups  of  milk  or 
half  a  cup  of  brandy,  four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  twelve  eggs, 
six  teasi)Oonfuls  of  yeast  ])0wder,  two  (|uarts  of  flour ;  spice 
to  taste.  Mrs.  8.  (".  Cummins. 

Kf.ACK    CAKE. 

Two  i)ounds  of  dredged  currants,  two  jtonnds  of  stoned 
raisins,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  tablespoonfnl  of  cinnamon, 
one  tablespoonfnl  of  mace,  four  nutmegs,  two  glasses  of 
wine,  one    glass  of   brandy,   one    glass  of    rose-water,    one 


CAKES.  157 

pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  loaf  Kug:ar,  one  pound  of  but- 
ter, twelve  eggs.  .  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  stir 
the  eggs  in  gradually,  add  the  tionr  and  fruits,  8])ices  and 
liijuors  by  degrees,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  at  least  four 
hours;  if  in  large  cakes,  leave  in  the  oven  to  cool.  Ice  it 
the  next  morning;  first  dredge  the  cake  with  flour,  then 
wipe  with  a  towel ;  this  will  make  the  icing  stick. 

Mrs.  Mary  Copp  and  Mrs.  G.  F.  Filley. 

SPOUOE  CAKE. 

Take  any  number  of  eggs,  their  weight  in  sugar  (])ow- 
dered  is  best),  and  half  their  weight  in  Hour,  the  rind  and 
juice  of  three  lemons  to  an  even  pound  of  eggs. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Goddard. 

SPOXOE    CAKE. 

One  dozen  of  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  flour  (light  weight),  the  rind  of  two  and  Juice  of 
one  good  sized  lemon;  break  the  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
together,  in  a  large  bowl,  add  the  sugar,  and  juice  and  rind 
of  the  lemons;  beat  the  mixture  briskly  for  half  an  hour 
with  an  egg-beater,  then  stir  in  very  lightly  the  flour,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven — one  suitable  for  bread. 

Miss  Krum. 
SPOXOE  CAKE. 

8eveu  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  together,  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  sugar  dissolved  in  half  a  tumbler  of  water,  let 
it  melt,  and  just  come  to  a  boil;  half  a  pound  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  jeast  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of 
lemon ;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  very  light,  then 
add  the  flour. 

Miss  Albright,  Kirkwood,  and  Mrs.  Smithers. 

BREAD  CAKE. 

One  i)int  of  sponge,  two  teacups  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda;  fruit,  spice  to 
taste;  flour  dei)ends  upon  the  thickness  of  the  sponge. 

Mrs.  Grace  Helm. 


158  MY  MO THEB  '8  COOK  BOOK. 


SPOXGE   CAKE. 

Six  eggs  beaten  together  very  light;  add  slowly  three  tea- 
cups of  sugar  and  three  of"  tlour;  in  the  last  cup  of  flour  put 
one  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder;  the  very  last  thing  add 
one  cup  of  boiliug  water;  flavor  with  lemon;  hake  one 
hour.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Morton. 

COXXEC'TIC;i  T   I.OAF  CAKE. 

Six  pounds  of  flour,  three  ])ounds  of  sugar,  three  pounds 
of  butter,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  mace,  five  eggs,  three 
pounds  of  raisins,  stoned,  four  nutmegs,  one  pint  home- 
made yeast,  two  lemons,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy;  beat 
half  the  quantity  of  butter  and  sngar  to  a  cream,  add  the 
flour  wet  with  half  the  quantity  of  yeast;  mix  it  quite  soft, 
and  let  it  stand  till  risen  very  light;  add  the  rest  of  the 
ingredients,  and  let  it  rise  again,  then  stir  in  lightly  the 
raisins,  dredged  with  flour,  and  bake.  The  above  will  make 
eight  loaves.  Mrs.  G.  F.  Filley. 

WHITE  FRl  IT  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  large  cup  of  butter,  the  whites 
of  twelve  eggs,  five  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  full  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  i)ouiuis  of  raisins  boiled  till  the  water  is  all 
boiled  away;  flour  the  raisins  well  with  extra  flour;  one 
large  spoonful  of  yeast    powder,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy. 

Mrs.  Kennaday,  New  York. 

CHOCOLATE    <  AKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  three  and  a  half  cnjjs  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  five  eggs,  whites  of  two  left  out  for  frosting; 
bake  in  a  large  dripping  pan. 

Frosting. — Beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs,  add  one 
cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls of  vanilla;  put  on  while  hot. 


CAKES.  159 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Use  velvet  cake  baked  in  layers  ;  for  filling  use  onc-l)alf 
cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-lialf  ])int 
of  sweet  milk,  a  small  piece  of  butter;  boil  until  stiff 
enough;  when  cool,  flavor  with  vanilla. 

WHITE    C4KE. 

The  whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  milk,  four  cups  of  tlour,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  not  quite  a  half 
cup  of  butter,  rose-water;  sift  flour  and  sugar  before  meas- 
uring, rub  cream  tartar  thoroughly  through  flour,  dissolve 
soda  in  milk,  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  This  rule  makes  a  very- 
large  cake.  Mrs.  S.  C.  Cummins. 

YE  I.  VET  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  four  eggs,  one  teacup  of  cold  water,  one  teasi)OOuful  of 
cream  tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flavor  with  extract 
of  lemon ;  beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  white  cream,  dis- 
solve the  soda  in  the  water,  and  sift  the  cream  tartar  into 
the  flour,  mixing  thoroughly ;  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar 
the  pound  of  flour  and  the  water,  beat  it  all  well ;  beat  the 
eggs,  the  yolks  first  and  then  the  whites,  to  a  stiff"  froth  ; 
beat  them  together  for  a  minute,  and  stir  into  the  cake ; 
beat  the  cake  well  for  about  three  minutes;  bake  an  hour. 
This  will  make  two  loaves.  It  may  be  flavored  with  nut- 
meg and  spices,  or  with  raisins  and  currants,  or  be  made 
into  delicious  chocolate  cake  by  being  baked  in  layers  and 
tilled  with  chocolate  frosting.     It  makes   nice  Jelly   cake. 

Mrs.  Sam'l  Copp. 

AI.1IOND    CAKE. 

One  dozen  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  almonds,  one-half 
grated  fine,  one-half  cut  fine,  one  i)ound  of  powdered  sugar, 
one-fourth   pound   of  citron  cut  fine,  a  dessert  spoonful  of 


160  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


cloves,  cinnamon  and  allKj)ice  each,  one  saucer  full  of  stale 
rye  bread  crumbs.  To  mix  the  cake,  beat  ei^ht  whites  to  a 
stitt"  froth,  and  after  beating"  the  rest  of  whites  and  ^olks 
together  stir  into  them  the  other  ingredients,  adding  the 
whites  last;  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  This  cake 
should  be  stirred  one  way  only. 

APPLE   CAKE, 

Soak  in  water  over  night  three  cups  of  dried  apples; 
l)our  off"  the  water  and  cho])  tine;  boil  them  in  three  cups  of 
molasses  one-half  hour;  when  taken  from  the  stove  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda;  stir  well;  when  cool  add  one  cup  of 
butter,  three  cuj)s  of  Hour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  nutmeg  and  any  spice 
you  wish,  and  flavoring  with  wine  or  brandy,  and  fruit,  as 
much  or  little  as  you  like;  or  make  it  without  fruit,  other 
than  the  apples,  which  makes  it  (juite  moist  and  rich-looking 
like  citron.    Bake  from  one  to  two  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  Waterman. 

SPIC'E1>   nAKBI.E    <'AKE. 

Tlie  whites  of  seven  eggs,  three  cups  of  white  sugar,  one 
cup  of  butter,  four  cups  of  tlour,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

The  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  of  molasses  with  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  it,  one 
cup  of  butter,  tive  cups  of  tlour,  one  <*up  of  sour  cream,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda;  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon  to  taste. 
Half  this  quantity  of  dark  is  sufficient  for  the  white  top  and 
bottom.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

:»IAKKI.EI>   <'AKE-Two  Cards. 

LIGHT    I' ART. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  light  sugar,  half  a  cui)  of  butter, 
half  acu])of  sw<M't  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  so«la,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  whites  of  four  eggs,  two  and 
a  half  eups  of  Hour;  beat  the  eggs  with  the  sugar,  ad<l  the 
butter  melted,  put  the  soda,  cream  and  milk  together,  then 
add  the  tlour. 


CAKES.  161 


DARK    PART. 


One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  lialf  a 
cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  half  a  teasi)Oonful  of 
soda,  one  teaspoouful  of  cream  of  tartar,  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
two  and  a  half  cups  of  Hour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one 
of  cinnamon,  one  of  nutmeg,  one  of  allspice ;  beat  and  mix 
same  as  the  light  part.  When  each  part  is  ready,  drop  a 
spoonful  of  dark,  then  of  liglit,  upon  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
in  which  it  is  to  be  baked,  and  so  proceed  till  the  ])an  is  full. 

Mrs.  G.  F.  Filley. 

:W4RBI.E    €AKE. 

Eight  eggs,  three  cups  of  the  best  white  sugar,  two  cups 
of  butter,  six  cups  of  flour;  put  the  whites  of  the  eggs  in 
one  pan,  the  yolks  in  another,  with  half  of  the  butter,  sugar 
and  flour;  beat  till  very  light;  then  divide  the  white  i)art, 
take  a  teaspoonful  of  cochineal,  pour  a  little  boiling  water 
to  it;  when  it  is  a  bright  rose  color,  color  half  of  the  white 
with  it ;  flavor  the  yellow  with  lemon,  the  white  with  almond, 
the  pink  with  rose-water ;  put  it  in  the  pan  in  layers;  frost 
as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven.  Mrs.  Haskell. 

CHOCOIiATE  MARBLE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour, 
five  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  yeast  pow- 
der; take  out  one  cup  of  the  dough,  and  mix  grated  choco- 
late wet  with  a  little  milk;  flavor  the  chocolate  with  vanilla, 
and  drop  in  spots  as  marble  cake;  flavor  the  light  part  of 
the  cake  with  nutmeg.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Morton. 

SHAVER  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  tine  wliite  sugar,  two  and  a  half  cui)s  of 
sifted  flour,  lialf  a.  cup  of  butter,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  eiglit  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar;  flavor  with  either 
almond  or  lemon.  Mrs.  E.  F.  Richards. 

11 


162  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


GOLD   CAKE. 

Cream  one  cup  of  sugar  and  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
butter  together  very  light,  add  half  a  cuj)  of  milk,  the  yolks 
of  eight  eggs  beat  very  light,  two  cups  of  sifted  Hour,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar;  flavor 
with  lemon.  Mrs.  Pettes  and  others. 

DOVER  CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter, 
one  pound  of  tlour,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
yeast  powder.  Mrs.  H.  B.  L. 

DELICATE    CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs, 
three  cups  of  Hour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  C. 

PLAIX    FRI  IT   CAKE. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  Ave  eggs  beaten  separately,  tive 
cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  and 
a  half  pounds  of  raisins,  allspice,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  cin- 
namon to  taste;  bake  in  a  (piick  oven.  Miss  A.  F. 

C  HOCOLATE  CREAM  CAKE. 

To  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  add  two  cups  of 
white  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three 
cups  of  flour  having  in  it  one  measure  of  "Banner"  baking 
pow<ler;  then  add  the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten;  bake 
in  Jelly  cake  i)ans. 

For  the  Cream. — To  four  ounces  of  i)lain  chocolate, 
grated,  add  one  cup  of  wiiite  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn  starch,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of 
extract  of  vanilla;  mix  well  together  and  boil  until  it  thick- 
ens, stirring  constantly;  when  cold,  spread  it  on  the  layers 
of  the  cake. 


CAKES.  163 


L.AI>Y  €AK£. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
one  pound  of  flour,  whites  of  sixteen  eggs  beaten  light; 
cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  mix  the  eggs 
three  or  four  at  a  time,  then  the  flour. 

MOI.ASSES   PIAIM   CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
one  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  stirred  in  the  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Mrs.  T.  T.  Eichards. 

HICKORY   ^VT  CAKE. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two 
cups  of  flour,  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup 
of  hickory  nuts,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  whites  of  four  eggs. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Davis. 

RAILROAn  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  eggs,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mrs.  H.  D.  Hatch. 

I.ITXCH  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  egg,  three  cups  of  flour,  one-third  of  a  cup  of 
cocoanut,  raisins  or  currants.         Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer. 

BRIDE'S   CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cuj)  of  butter,  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  beaten  to  a  stitt"  froth,  one  cup  of  cold  water;  mix 
well  together;  then  add  three  cups  of  flour  into  whieli  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  and  t  wo  of  cream  tartar  have  been  stirred  ; 
beat  briskly  for  two  niinutos;  flavor  witii  almond,  and  bake 
in  a  (piick  oven;  frost  the  toi).  S.  Noyes. 


164  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


CORX   STARCH   CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  two 
cups  of  Hour,  one  cup  of  corn  starch,  whites  of  seven  eggs, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  of  cream  tartar;  beat  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Moore  and  others. 

WATER  POrXD   CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour, 
six  eggs,  one  cup  of  water  or  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  yeast 
powder.  Mrs.  Morton. 

EGGIiESS  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  buttermilk,  two  cups  of 
raisins,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda^ 
four  cups  of  flour;  spice  as  you  like.  Mrs.  Treat. 

TEX  EGG  CAKE. 

The  whites  of  ten  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
butter,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teas])Oonful 
of  soda  and   two  of  cream  of  tartar;  flavor  with  almond. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Filley. 

CREAn  CAKE. 

Four  cui)s  of  flour,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream, 
Ave  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  one  cup  of  butter; 
mix  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  the  rest. 

QIKEX   CAKE. 

One  pouiul  of  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  i>ound  of  sugar, 
one  half  i)ound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  fruits,  one  wine-glass 
of  Itrandy,  one  wine-glass  of  wine,  one  wine-glass  of  milk, 
four  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Shippen  and  Mrs.  S.  Copp. 

FAXXY   CAKE. 

One  ami  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half 
a  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  yeast  powder.  Mrs.  \V.  H.  Pulsifer. 


CAKES.  165 


CUP  CAKE. 


One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugai',  four  ou])s  of  Houi', 
oue  cup  of  milk,  six  eggs,  whites  beaten  separately,  one 
teaspoouful  of  soda  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar;  flavor  as 
you  like.    Is  very  nice  with  fruit.         Mrs.  O.  1).  Filley. 

CII>KR   SPICE    CAKE. 

One  heaping  cu])  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one 
egg,  one  cup  of  cider  with  one  teaspoouful  of  soda  stirred 
in,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoouful  of  cloves, 
one-half  cup  of  raisins,  choi)ped  ;  extract  of  lemon. 

Mrs.  E.  Brown,  Connecticut. 

WHITE   CAKE. 

The  whites  of  thirty-six  eggs,  nine  cups  of  sugar,  three 
cups  of  milk,  three  cups  of  butter,  live  cups  of  Hour,  six 
teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder;  flavor  with  almond.  This 
makes  a  very  large  loaf  suitable  for  company. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Cummins. 

SPICE    CAKE. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  butter,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  milk,  tive  cups  of  flour,  tive  eggs,  one  teaspoouful 
of  powdered  cinnamon,  one  teaspoouful  of  cloves,  allspice 
and  nutmeg,  oue  teaspoouful  of  soda,  one  pound  of  stoned 
raisins;  beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  milk  together,  then  add 
the  other  articles.  Mrs.  Kline. 

Mr:^SOX  CAKE,  -'VERY  NIC  E." 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cui>  of  butter,  four  eggs,  one 
<uip  of  milk,  four  small  cups  of  Hour,  half  a  nutmeg  grated, 
two  cups  of  raisins,  oue  teaspoouful  of  yeast  powder;  stir 
the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  mix  the  yeast  powder 
thoroughly  with  the  Hour,  add  alternately  the  tlour,  eggs  and 
milk,  a  little  at  a  time ;  beat  the  mixture  well,  and  having 
dredged  the  raisins  with  flour,  put  them  in  just  before  turn 
ing  into  the  pans;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three-quart- 
ers of  an  hour.  Miss  Maggie  Krum. 


1G6  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


SHREWSBURY  CAKE. 

Rub  to  a  cream  half  a  j)Oun(l  of  butter  and  three-quarters 
of  a  i)Oun(l  of  sugar  and  five  well  beaten  eggs,  a  nutmeg  or 
a  teaspoonful  of  rose-water,  and  a  quart  of  tlour.  When 
well  mixed  drop  with  a  spoon  on  buttered  tins  and  sift  on 
]»owdered  sugar,  then  put  on  small  pieces  of  citron  and 
raisins.  Mrs.  T.  J.  Albright. 

W4RREX    CAKE. 

One  pint  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one 
quart  of  tlour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar  in  part  of 
the  Hour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  milk,  one 
pound  of  raisins,  a  little  brandy,  nutmeg,  cloves,  cinnamon, 
etc.;  if  not  thin  enough,  add  a  little  more  milk.  A  little 
molasses  makes  it  dark  colored.     Bake  it  slow. 

Mrs.  T.  T.  Richards. 

COFFEE   CAKE,  "VERY  ]VICE.*' 

Two  teacups  of  sugar,  one  teacuj)  of  molasses,  one  tea- 
cu])  of  butter,  one  teacup  of  cold  cottee,  five  cups  of  tlour, 
four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves,  mace,  cinnamon,  half 
a  pound  of  (^hopped  raisins,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda. 

Mrs.  Wells. 

I.IXCOLN   CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  (nij)  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
two  eggs,  three  cu[>8  of  Hour,  one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of 
lemon,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Mrs.  L.  E.  Kline. 

COCOAXIT   CAKE. 

One  pound  of  tine  sugar,  half  a  i)Ound  of  butter,  three- 
quarters  of  a  i)Ound  of  Hour,  six  eggs,  one  large  or  two 
small  cocoanuts,  grated  without  the  milk;  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar  together,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the 
whites,  then  the  flour;  mix  well,  and  Just  before  baking  add 
cocoanut ;  bake  in  two  long  tins.        Miss  Julia  Roberts. 


CAKES.  107 


AI.IIIOXD  CAKE. 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  twelve  eggs, 
one  pound  of  tlour,  one  i)Ound  of  almonds  blanched  and 
pounded  line,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water ;  bake  in  thin 
sheets.  Mrs.  Wentworth. 

son  A   CAKE. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  two  teaspoon  fuls  of  yeast  powder,  one 
teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon.        Miss  E.  L.  Glover. 

HAKRISOBi^  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
five  cups  of  Hour,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  three  eggs,  one 
teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  one  pound  of  raisins,  cloves,  cin- 
namon, nutmeg;  a  wine-glass  of  brandy  improves  it. 

Mrs.  McKittriok. 

I>ATE   CAKE. 

Two  tumblers  of  brown  sugar,  one  and  a  half  tumblers 
of  butter,  one  tumbler  of  molasses,  four  tumblers  of  Hour, 
six  eggs,  one  pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  citron,  one 
pound  of  dates,  half  a  wine-glass  of  water,  half  a  teasi>oon- 
ful  of  soda,  spice  and  lemon ;  bake  three  hours. 

FEATHER   CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one 
cup  of  milk,  one  spoonful  of  cream  tartar,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  both  i)utin  with  the  milk,  three  cups  of  flour, 
one  lemon;  beat  all  twenty  minutes.  Notes. 

liEIttON  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter  and  three  cups  of  sugar,  beat  to  a  froth 
yolks  of  five  eggs,  whites  beaten  separately,  juice  and  rind 
of  one  lemon  grated,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


168  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


WEW  YORK   OI\G£R  BREAD. 

One  cu})  of  milk,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
three  cujjs  of  flour,  four  eggs,  six  tablespooufuls  of  ginger, 
one  teas})oon  of  cream  tartar,  and  one  of  soda. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer. 

CARRIE'S    GIXOER   BREAD. 

One  cofit'ee-cup  of  molasses,  one  of  sour  milk  or  cream, 
one  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  (heaped),  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one  tablespoon  of  ginger,  a  little  salt,  not  very  stiff 
with  flour;  it  will  make  two  long  tins. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

OI^GER   BREAD. 

Two  large  teacui)fuls  of  molasses,  two  small  or  one  large 
cuj)  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  five  cups  of  flour,  two 
tablespooufuls  of  ginger,  and  whatever  other  spices  you 
wish,  Ave  eggs,  half  a  teaspooful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the 
milk;  stir  the  butter,  sugar  and  spice  in  the  molasses,  then 
add  the  eggs,  then  the  flour  and  milk;  when  done  cut  in 
large  slices;  pass  around  with  lemonade. 

Miss  E.  L.  Glover. 

SOFT  OIXOER  CAKE. 

Two  ])ints  of  flour  rounded,  one  pint  of  molasses ;  one- 
lialf  ]>int  of  warm  water,  two  tables[)oonfuls  of  butter 
melted  in  tiie  water,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little 
salt;  flavor  with  cinnamon. 

SOFT   OIXGER  <  AKE. 

One-half  cup  each  of  sugar,  molasses  and  butter,  one 
ciij)  of  sour  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon 
of  ginger,  one  of  soda.  Miss  Julia  Roberts. 

CRISP  GFXC^ER  BREAD. 

Three  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  i)int  of  molasses,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  ginger;  to  be  rolled  out  thin. 

Miss  E.  L.  Glover. 


CAKES.  169 


Gi:WG£R  CRISPS. 

One  teacup  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of  molasses,  one  teacup 
of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  ginoer,  one  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  one-half  teacup  of  vinegar,  one  egg,  seven  tea- 
cups of  flour;  bake  in  thin  cakes  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes. 

GIWCi£R  SNAPS. 

One  cup  of  molasses  and  {lalf  a  cup  of  butter  brought  to 
a  boil,  remove  from  tire  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two  teasi)OOufuls  of  ginger;  mix 
stiff;  roll  thin ;  bake  quick  and  keep  by  themselves  in  a 
covered  tin  ])ail  to  remain  crisi).  J.  R.  A. 


170  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


LAYER  CAKES. 


I>.4:»IE    DIRI>EN   CAKE. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  sugar  mixed  to  a 
cream,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar; 
season  with  almond  or  lemon.  This  makes  very  nice  cream 
or  Washington  pies,  or  two  loaves  of  cake;  split  one  twice 
aud  spread  with  chocolate  icing. 

Icing. — One-quarter  of  a  cake  of  chocolate,  half  a  cup 
of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch;  mix  together,  and 
cook  over  the  teakettle  until  stift",  then  sweeten  to  taste  with 
powdered  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  spread  quickly. 

JEI.I.T  Rorx. 

One  cup  of  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoouful  of  butter,  one  tea8i)oouful  of  yeast 
powder. 

Lemon  Jelly  for  Roll. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg, 
juice  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water;  let  it 
thicken  on  the  stove,  and  stir  while  cooking. 

Mrs.  L.  E.  Kline. 

MORENTIN   CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
butter,  oue  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  i)o\vder  ; 
flavor  with  lemon ;  bake  in  four  layers,  the  top  ones  each 
smaller,  to  form  a  pyramid;  take  the  Avhites  of  three  eggs 
to  forui  the  icing,  i)utting  some  between,  the  balance  over  the 
top  aud  sides:  set  iu  a  cool  oven  to  dry. 

Mrs;.  Dergans. 


LAYER  CAKES.  Ill 


ORANGI]   CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  aud  a  half  cui)8  of  flour,  one-balf 
cup  of  cold  water,  three  teaspooufuls  of  bakiug  powder, 
tlie  yolks  of  Ave  eggs,  the  whites  of  three,  the  rind  and 
Juice  of  one  orange;  bake  in  jelly  cake  tins. 

Icing  and  Filling  for  same. — The  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  light,  the  Juice  of  one-half  an  orange  and  the  rind  of 
a  whole  one;  make  stiff  with  powdered  sugar;  put  this 
between  the  layers  and  on  top.        Mrs.  E.  H.  Morton. 

liEMOX   CAKE. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  three 
eggs  beaten  together,  two  teaspooufuls  of  baking  powder 
mixed  with  flour;  add  the  last  thing,  half  a  cup  of  ice  water  ; 
bake  in  Jelly  i)ans. 

Filling. — Three  lemons,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  three  eggs;  beat  all  together,  put  on  the 
tire  and  stir  till  it  thickens.  Mrs.  S.  C.  Davis,  Jr. 

GATEAII  CITRON. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  six 
eggs,  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  Juice  of  three,  boil  till  it 
thickens;  when  cold  put  it  between  two  or  three  layers  of 
sponge  cake  an  inch  thick,  with  a  meringue  on  top. 

Mrs.  D.  Young. 

POVERTY  €AKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg^  half  a 
cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flonr,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  two  teaspooufuls  of  cream  tartar,  a  little  salt ;  bake 
in  four  Jelly  pans,  and  while  warm  spread  with  currant  or 
plum  Jelly;  makes  a  nice  loaf,  or  it  can  be  baked  in  two  pans 
and  used  for  cream  or  chocolate  cakes.  Cream  :  One  cup 
of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  flour;  or 
it  is  nicer  to  use  corn  starch ;  boil  the  milk  and  stir  in  the 
eggs,  sugar  and  flour  mixed  together.     Chocolate :     Instead 


172  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


of  using  all  corn  starch,  nse  more  than  half  grated  choco- 
late ;  season  with  vanilla,  spread  on  top  as  well  as  between 
tlie  layers.  This  quantity  of  batter  can  be  made  into  a  loaf 
cake.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Palmer  and  Eichards. 

€rea:»i  for  cake  filmkg. 

Half  a  pint  of  cream,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter,  sufficient  corn  starch  to  thicken  it;  put  in  a 
saiK'epan,  set  it  in  a  pan  of  water,  and  cook  it  several  min 
iites,  stirring  it  hard  all  the  while,  then  cool  it  luid  put  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract;  spread  it  on  your  c^ake  just 
as  for  jelly  cake.  E.  M. 

WASHIXGTOX  PIE. 

Four  eggs  beat  separate,  one  teacupful  of  white  sugar,  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk  or 
(•ream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar,  three  teacupfuls  of  flour;  bake  in  jelly  pans. 
Filling  for  same  :  One  apple  grated,  one  lemon  grated,  one 
egg,  one  teacupful  of  sugar;  stir  together  over  the  tire  live 
minutes,  taking  care  not  to  burn ;  spread  as  jelly  between 
layers  of  cake.  Mrs.  Powell. 

THE  UUEEN  OF  CREAM   PIES. 

Two  teacups  of  flour,  two  of  powdered  sugar,  nine  eggs, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  of  cream  tartar;  mix  the 
sifted  flour,  cream  tartar  and  soda  thoroughly  dry;  into 
the  beaten  yolks  put  one-lialf  the  sugar,  and  into  the 
beaten  whites  the  other  half;  then  beat  both  together 
thoroughly;  mix  gradually  with  the  flour;  add  lemon  flav- 
oring; ])Our  into  eigiit  jelly  pans.  It  will  rise  very  light 
while  in  the  oven,  bnt  don't  be  frightened  if  it  falls  after 
coming  ont,  as  it  does  not  hurt  it  in  the  least. 

Mrs.  W,  Fallon. 

CREAM. 

Five  eggs,  one  and  a  half  teacups  of  powdered  sngar,  one 
cnp  not  (piite  full  of  sifted  flour,  one  quart   rich   milk;  put 


LAYER  CAKES.  173 


the  milk  on  to  boil ;  beat  the  eggs  all  together ;  add  the 
sugar,  then  the  flour  gradually ;  when  well  mixed  pour  over 
the  milk,  stirring  constantly  ;  put  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  on  the  stove  and  stir  constantly  until  it  is  so  thick 
that  it  will  just  pour  out  easily  ;  will  be  thicker  when  cold  ; 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  W.  Fallon. 

ROLI.  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonfnl  of 
baking  powder,  four  eggs ;  beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar 
together,  add  flour,  then  whites  of  eggs  beaten  very  light; 
bake  in  a  pan  as  large  as  the  batter  can  be  spread  upon  ; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven;  turn  out:  spread  with  Jelly;  roll 
while  hot.  Have  a  nice  clean  white  cloth  ready  si)rinkled 
with  powdered  sugar ;  roll  it  around  the  cake ;  let  it  remain 
until  it  gets  cool.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  D.  E.  Powell. 

WHITE   MOIJXTAIW  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  j)ound 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  ten  eggs, 
two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder;  bake  like  jelly  cake. 
Put  icing  and  grated  cocoanut  between  the  layers,  same  over 
the  top  and  sides.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Moore. 

MOU:SrTAIW   CAKE. 

Cut  any  white  or  delicate  cake  you  would  use  for  jelly 
cake  in  as  many  layers  as  you  wish,  put  between  a  thin 
frosting,  on  that  strew  a  thick  layer  of  cocoanut  grated,  then 
raisins  chopped  fine,  then  a  thin  layer  of  blanched  almonds 
split  open,  then  a  layer  of  cake;  continued  till  finished; 
frost  the  top,  strewing  the  nut  over  the  loaf. 

Mrs.  H.  Waterman. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
two  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  four  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
yeast   i>owder;  bake   as  jelly  cake.     Filling:     One   cup   of 


174  MY  MOTHER' 8  COOK  BOOK. 


grated  chocolate  with  two  spoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar, 
whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  mix  with  the  chocolate  and  spread 
between  the  cakes  when  warm,  over  the  top  and  sides,  dry- 
ing by  stove.  Miss  Lee,  Buffalo. 

CREAM   CAKES. 

Two  cups  of  cold  water,  one  cup  of  butter,  boil  up  once; 
then  add  two  cups  of  Hour  while  boiling,  and  stir  until 
smooth ;  when  cool,  stir  in  six  well  beaten  eggs  and  a  little 
salt.  Drop  on  buttered  pan  from  a  spoon.  This  will  make 
about  twenty  cakes. 

Filling  fob  Cakes.— Two  cups  of  sugar,  three-fourths 
cup  Hour,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  milk.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar 
and  Hour  together,  boil  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  thickening, 
being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  It  is  better  to  set  the  vessel 
into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  thicken  gradualh', 
flavor  to  suit  the  taste,  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  till  the  cakes 
when  cold.  L.  F. 

BOSTON   CREAM  CAKES. 

The  crusl :  One  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  cup  of  butter, 
four  cups  of  Hour,  ten  eggs;  boil  the  water  and  butter 
together,  stir  in  the  flour  while  the  water  is  boiling;  when 
cool  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  on 
your  pan,  then  bake  them  ;  when  done  and  cool,  oi)en  them 
and  put  in  the  custard.  The  cnstard :  One  quart  of  milk, 
one  cup  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  eggs;  boil  the 
milk,  and  while  boiling  add  the  sugar,  then  the  flour  and 
eggs  well  beaten  together. 

I.EMOX  OR  CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  melted  butter,  Hve  eggs, 
one  cup  of  milk,  Ave  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
yeast  powder,  lemon  extract. 

Lemon  Icing. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
Juice  of  two  lemons  and  a  little  more  than  the  grated  rind  of 
one  lemon.     This  quantity  makes  two  cakes  of  four  layers. 


LAYER  CAKES.  175 


Chocolate  Custard  for  the  same  Cake. — One  egg, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  grated  choco- 
late;  stir  all  together  and  let  it  come  to  a  good  boil; 
when  taken  off  add  one  and  a  half  tea8])oonfuls  of  vanilla; 
beat  all  very  hard  until  quite  smooth  ;  when  your  cake  is 
cold,  spread  on  the  chocolate. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Clark,  Carondelet. 

URS.   GARDI^ER'f^   WHITE    CAKE. 

Three  quarters  of  a  cu])  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  cup 
of  corn  starch;  whites  of  six  eggs;  mix  with  corn  starch 
two  teaspooufuls  of  Price's  baking  powder;  flavor  with 
extract  of  almond;  bake  in  thin  cakes;  make  a  thin 
icing  and  mix  with  grated  cocoanut  and  spread  between  the 
layers.'  Use  lemon  extract  if  you  make  the  cake  with, 
cocoanut. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Stir  into  one  pint  of  warm  milk  half  a  teacup  of  butter, 
the  same  of  lard,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff"  batter,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  cup  of  yeast;  keep  warm,  and  let 
it  rise.  When  light  work  in  two  and  a  half  cups  of  suj'ar, 
four  eggs  well  beaten,  two  teaspooufuls  of  cinnamon  or  nut- 
meg; knead  well,  adding  flour  until  not  quite  as  stiff"  as 
bread  ;  let  it  rise  again  very  light,  roll  out,  cut  in  any  shape 
desired,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Dredge  with  powdered  sugar 
while  hot.  Mrs.  O.  D.  Filley. 

KAISEI>   DOUOHXUTS, 

One  pint  of  warm  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  melted 
butter,  half  a  cup  of  yeast;  make  a  batter  and  let  it  rise 
over  night;  stir  in,  in  the  morning,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspooufuls  of  cinnamon, 
a  little  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough;  when  light,  fry. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 


176  MY  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 


DOUGHNUTS. 

One  pint  of  sour  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one  nutmeg,  two  eggs.  Hour  enough  to  roll. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Goddard. 

YANKEE    DOHGIIXITS. 

Tliree  pints  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  teacups  of  sugar, 
one-third  of  a  teacup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  four  teaspoonfuls 
of  cream  tartar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful 
of  extract  of  lemon,  a  little  salt  and  milk;  mould  just  stiff 
enough  to  roll  out.  Mrs.  G.  F.  Filley. 

CRri.I.ERS. 

Four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  lard, 
eight  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoouful  of  yeast 
powder  and  half  a  cup  of  milk,  flour  suflicient  to  roll. 

Mrs.  N.  H;  Stevens. 

CRILLERS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cuji  of  butter,  one  and  a  half 
cups  of  milk,  Ave  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder, 
nutmeg;  make  soft  to  roll.  Mrs.  S.  E.  Filley. 

C  RIIIiI.ERS. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  lliiee-quarters  of  a  i)ound  of  sugar, 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  (if 
you  put  milk  it  will  take  a  little  more  flour),  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder.  Mrs.  Brock. 

C'RlI.IiERS. 

One  teaspoonful  saleratus  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
one-half  pint  of  flour,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  beat  four  eggs  with  eight  lieai)ing 
tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one  nutmeg;  work  them  into 
the  rest  with  flour  enough  to  make  them  cut,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard. 


LAYER  CAKES.  Ill 


URN.   CLARK^S   CRirLI^ERS. 

Six  eggs,  six  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  slightly  warm  ;  flour  not  too  stiff;  fry  in 
hot  lard.  Mrs.  L.  B.  Clark. 

JlTMBtES. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  small 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cassia,  flour  sufticient 
to  roll  them.  It  is  better  to  roll  a  part  of  them  at  a  time, 
they  are  so  rich  and  soft.  N. 

COOKIES. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  milk,  three-fourths  of 
a  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cream 
tartar;  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon;  flour  enough  to 
roll  out.  MiLLY. 

€OOKIE$!». 

Two  cups  of  butter,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  half 
cup  of  milk,  four  eggs;  flavor  to  taste;  whip  the  ingredients 
well;  make  into  a  stiff  dough ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast 
l)Owder ;  roll  thin ;  cut  in  design  to  suit ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.     Will  keep  nicely  for  ten  days  if  kept  dry. 

Mrs.  Eainwater. 

:XI€E  COOKIES  WITHOUT  EOOS. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  six 
of  flour ;  flavor  with  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  and  add  from 
three  to  four  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder;  roll  thin  and 
bake.  S.  S.  D. 

VA?riI.I.A  WAFERS. 

One   cuj)   of  sugar,   two-thirds   of  a   cup  of  butter,  four 

tablespoonfuls   of  milk,   one   tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  one 

egg,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  two-thirds 

of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  to  roll  out;  roll  very  thin. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  GoDDARD. 
12 


178  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


MRS.  KOBIXSOX'S  COOKIES. 

Oue-foiirth  pound  of  l>utter,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  cara- 
way seed  or  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  sugar  boiled  in  one-half 
pint  of  water;  let  it  cool  before  mixing  with  the  other 
ingredients :  Hour  enough  to  stiffen  to  roll  out  thin. 

I.EMOA   COOKIES. 

One  pint  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  batter,  three  cups  of  Hour, 
three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  sifted  into  the  flour,  grated 
peel  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 

SCOTCH    CAKES. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
three  eggs,  one  nutmeg  grated.  To  mix :  Take  about  a 
pound  of  flour,  with  it  mix  the  sugar  and  nutmeg,  into  this 
rub  the  butter,  then  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  and  as  much 
more  flour  as  is*neces8ary  to  roll  them  out  very  thin;  the 
less  flour  used  the  more  delicate  the  cakes  will  be. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Goddard. 

COCOAWUT  GEMS.  ''VERY  >'ICE.** 

One  cu])  of  butter,  three  and  a  half  cui)s  of  flour,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  half  a  cuj)  of  milk,  one  cup  of 
cocoanut.  Use  desiccated  cocoauut,  and  soak  it  in  the  milk 
an  hour  or  two  before  making  the  cakes.  Bake  in  gem-pans, 
and  do  not  rill  the  pans  too  full.  Miss  H. 

MACAROONS. 

Take  one  ])ound  of  blanched  almonds  pounded  flue  in  a 
mortar,  whip  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  add 
two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sifted  loaf  sugar:  mix  these  all 
well  together:  whip  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  more  and  add  to 
the  otiier:  stir  all  together  till  very  light,  then  droj)  them 
with  a  si)Oon  on  stiff'  white  paper  and  lay  on  baking-tins  in 
a  slow  oven;  before  putting  in  the  oven,  lay  four  or  rive 
l)ieces  of  sliced  almonds  on  each  macaroon. 

Mrs.  Frank  Fillev. 


LAYER  CAKES.  179 


WAFERS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  lialf  a  cup  of  milk, 
half  a  teaspoouful  of  saleratus,  flour  to  roll  stiff  and  tbin. 

Mrs.  Maurice. 

SUOAR  CAKES. 

Oue-balf  pint  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  peel  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  enable  the  dough  to  be  rolled. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

COCOANIIT    JrHBLES. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a 
l)ound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one  cocoa- 
nut  grated.  Miss  S.  M.  Stetson,  Boston. 

SUGAR  GIISTGER  SIVAPS. 

Two  cups  of  butter,  four  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  one  teasi)oonful  of  soda, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  egg,  flour  enough  to  roll  out; 
roll  very  thin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  F.  a.  Durgin. 

HOIiASSES  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter,  four  teaspoon- 
fuls of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar;  ginger  to  taste; 
enough  flour  to  roll  thin.  Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

MY  GINGER  SNAPS. 

THE  gentlemen's  FAVORITE. 

One  pint  of  melted  butter,  one  pint  of  melted  lard,  one 
])intof  sugar,  one  quart  of  molasses,  five  level  tablesi)0<)n- 
fuls  of  ginger,  four  quarts  of  flour,  four  teasi)Oonfuls  of 
soda  or  eight  tea8])oonfiils  of  baking  ])ow(ler  dissolved  in  a 
little  sweet  milk  ;  roll  out  thin  and  bake.  S.  S.  D. 


180  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


OIACi^ER   DROPS. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  molasses,  two  eggs,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk,  yeast  powder,  six  cups  of  flour ;  ciu- 
uamou  and  ginger ;  bake  in  tins  or  gem-pans. 

Mrs.  Edgerton. 

1IOI.ASSES   DROP  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda; 
beat  the  ingredients  well  together,  and  drop  with  a  spoon 
in  a  buttered  tin  :  bake  quick.  Mrs.  Davis. 

HI  NTIXG  JTITS. 

Little  over  three  pints  of  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  tea- 
cup of  butter,  one  teacup  of  sugar,  one  nutmeg,  one-third 
of  a  cup  of  ginger,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda ; 
rub  together  thoroughly  and  with  molasses  make  a  paste, 
not  too  stift";  roll  it  out  in  long  strips  ;  bake  in  a  ((uick  oven. 

Mrs.  G.  F.  Filley. 

<  RISPYS. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  half  a 
cup  of  ginger,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  not  <iuite  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  flour  enough  to  roll  out  thin  ;  cut  in  small  cakes, 
and  bake  in  a  pretty  quick  oven.  Mrs.  Brock. 

ICIXG. 

To  one  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar,  put  the  beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs;  beat  the  whites  very  light  and  stir  in 
the  sugar  by  degrees;  flavor  with  lemon  and  spread  on  the 
cake  with  a  knife  dipped  into  cold  water. 

BOILED   IC'I^bCii. 

lioil  one  pound  of  sugar  in  half  a  i)int  of  water  until  it 
will  string  from  tlu»  spoon;  then  pour  it  over  the  wiiites  of 
four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stifl'  froth  and  beat  until  cold;  flavor; 
apply  with  a  wet  knife.  Mrs.  C.  B.  Kichards. 


LAYER  CAKES.  181 


One  tablespoon  of  jjelatine,  one  tablespoon  of  liot  water, 
three  tablespoons  of  (;old  water,  sixteen  tablespoons  of  sngar. 

Mrs.    J.    W.    GODDAKD. 

CHOCOLATE    CAKE    I<  IXG. 

One  pound  white  sugar  dissolved  in  a  little  water  and  boil 
until  it  can  be  pulled  when  tried  in  cold  water,  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stift"  froth  ;  pour  the  boiling  sugar  upon 
the  whites  and  stir  constantly  until  cool;  grate  one  and  a 
fourth  blocks  of  a  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate  and  stir  in  ; 
use  cake  baked  in  Jelly  tins  and  spread  chocolate  icing 
between  each  layer  of  cake  and  then  over  the  whole.  Very 
nice.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

CAKE   niTH   COCOAXIT    ICTXG. 

Use  cake  baked  in  jelly  tins;  grate  one  good  sized  cocoa- 
nut;  boil  a  pound  of  sugar  in  a  little  water  until  it  can  be 
pulled  when  tried  in  cold  water;  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  pour  the  boiling  sugar  upon  the 
whites  and  stir  constantly  until  cool,  then  add  the  grated 
cocoanut,  reserving  enough  of  it  to  decorate  or  frost  the  out- 
side of  the  loaf;  spread  the  icing  between  each  layer  of  cake 
and  over  the  whole,  covering  the  sides,  then  spread  lightly 
the  reserved  cocoanut  over  the  whole.     Delicious. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 


182  MY  MOTHER' 8  COOK  BOOK. 


ICE  CREAM,  ETC. 


ICE  CREAM. 

Three  egg8,  one  quart  of  milk;  let  the  milk  come  to  a 
boil ;  beat  the  eggs  and  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  about  a 
teaspoonful  of  arrowroot;  then  pour  the  mixture  into  tiie 
milk  and  let  it  stay  till  smooth,  but  not  long  enough  to  boil 
again.     Flavor  when  cold.  Mrs.  S.  C.  Davis. 

ICE   CREAlWr. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream ;  take  out  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  milk  and  set  the  rest  to  boil ; 
dissolve  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot  in  tlie 
cold  milk,  and  when  the  milk  boils  mix  the  arrowroot  well 
with  it;  Just  before  taking  from  the  tire  add  one  i)Ound  of 
sugar;  set  away  to  cool;  just  before  freezing  whip  the  cream 
and  tlavor;  mix  all  together.  Let  the  mixture  stand  a  while 
in  the  freezer  before  turning  to  let  it  get  thoroughly  cold. 

Mks.  Sarah  Davis. 

FREXCII  ICE  CREAM. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  one-quarter  of  a 
box  of  gelatine,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  ; 
dissolve  the  gelatine  in  milk;  let  it  come  to  a  simmer;  add  the 
sugar:  let  it  cool;  then  add  cream  and  vanilla,  whipping  it 
thoroughly.     Freeze  like  other  ice  cream. 

Mrs.  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

ITAMAX   CREAM. 

One  ounce  of  gelatine,  one  (piart  of  milk,  eight  egg»,  one 
]>int  of  cream,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  flavor  with 
vanilla,  and  freeze.  Miss  Semple. 


ICE  CREAM,  ETC.  183 


STRAWBERRY   KE  CREAHf. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk,  one  tea- 
spooful  of  corn  starcli,  two  e^^s,  one  (tup  of  isnj»ar;  press 
three  pints  of  strawberries,  or  as  many  more  as  you  ])lease, 
through  a  sieve  ;  make  the  juice  very  sweet,  add  it,  with  one 
quart  of  cream,  one  cu])  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
well  whipped,  to  tiie  custard  Just  as  you  put  it  into  the 
freezer.     Tliis  makes  one  gallon  of  cream. 

Mrs.  Coons. 

WALXUT  I€E  €REA:fI. 

One  quart  of  cieam,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  three  eggs, 
two  ounces  of  P^nglish  walnut  meats,  whip  eggs  and  sugar, 
pour  in  cieam ;  warm  over  the  tire  till  it  commences  to 
thicken,  pound  walnuts  tine,  mix  with  the  above;  freeze  in 
moulds.  Keverk  Hottse,  Boston. 

BISCUIT  GI.ACE. 

To  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  and  vanilla  tdavoring;  beat  well  and  add  to  two 
quarts  of  well  whipj)ed  cream:  color  some  of  it  red  and 
spread  on  the  bottom  of  paper  capsules  and  till  up  with 
fresh  cream ;  theu  put  them  in  a  tin  box  with  (^over  and  pack 
well  up  on  all  sides  with  ])ounded  ice  and  salt;  let  stand  for 
two  hours.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

FROZEN   HUI>I>IXO. 

Three  pints  of  milk,  nine  eggs;  make  a  custard;  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  each  of  currants,  raisins,  citron,  brandy 
])eaches,  one  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot,  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  chocolate ;  sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze. 

FROZEN   PEACHES. 

Get  soft,  ripe  freestones,  i)eel  and  mash  them  through  a 
cullender,  sweeten  very  sweet,  as  the  freezing  makes  them 
lose  some  sweetness.  Then  to  make  ice  cream,  add  equal 
quantities  of  cream,  with  sugar  sufficient  for  both.  This  is 
delicious.  All  fruits  can  be  done  in  the  same  way,  with 
more  or  less  sugar.  Miss  S.  Larkin. 


184  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


PRESERVES  AND  CANNED  FRUITS. 


In  selectiiio'  fruit  for  preserving  and  canning,  always  see 
that  it  is  fresh  and  firm.  If  yon  wish  your  j^reserves  to 
look  clear  and  bright,  use  the  best  loaf  or  granulated  sugar; 
if  for  more  common  use,  an  inferior  quality  of  sugar 
may  be  used,  but  it  will  not  look  so  well  and  is  more  apt  to 
spoil.  The  porcelain  kettle  is  the  best  for  preserving,  and 
should  be  rather  broad  than  deep,  for  fruit  cannot  be  done 
equally  if  too  much  heai)ed.  Always  keep  your  preserves 
in  a  dry  ])lace ;  should  you  see,  after  they  have  been  kept 
a  while,  a  coat  of  mould  on  the  surface,  you  need  not  throw 
thein  awtiy  until  you  have  first  tried  to  recover  them  by 
adding  a  little  more  sugar  and  boiling  tlieni  over  again;  but 
if  tliey  liavj^  an  unpleasant  smell  and  insects  about  them, 
then  they  must  be  thrown  away.  Keep  preserves  in  small 
glass  jars,  as  IVciinent  opening  injures  them. 

Jellies  are  all  made  nearly  in  the  same  manner,  using  the 
juice  of  the  fruit  and  allowing  a  i)ound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of 
juice.  Jelly-bags  should  be  made  of  wiiite  tlannel  ;  the  bag 
should  be  first  dipped  in  hot  water,  for  if  <lry  it  will  absorb 
too  much  of  the  juice. 

Canned  fruit  rcijuires  much  less  sugar  than  |>reserving, 
and  is  (fonsidered  by  many  a  great  im])rovement  upon  the 
old-fashioned  way  of  ))reserving,  as  it  retains  more  of  its 
natural  tlavor  and  is  certainly  more  economical.  In  mak- 
ing the  syruj)  for  canned  fruits,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
sugar  to  one  ])int  of  water:  will  make  syrnj)  enough  for  one 
(juart  can. 

PKFSKRVKO  UIIXC'ES. 

Pare  and  core  your  (piinces,  taking  out  the  knotty  and 
defective  jiarts,  cut  them  in  (piarters,  weigh  your  fruit,  allow- 


PRESERVES  AND  CANNED  FRUITS.  185 

iug  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit, 
put  the  pieces  in  your  preserving-kettle,  cover  them  with  tlie 
parings  and  a  very  little  water,  lay  a  large  plate  over  them, 
boil  till  they  are  tender;  take  out  the  quinces,  strain  the 
liquor  through  a  bag;  boil  the  juice  and  sugar  together 
about  ten  minutes,  skimming  it  well,  put  in  the  quinces,  boil 
them  gently  until  they  are  quite  clear  and  soft,  take  them 
out  and  spread  them  on  large  flat  dishes;  afterwards  put 
them  in  glass  jars,  boil  the  syrup  a  few  minutes  longer,  pour 
the  syrup  warm  over  them.  You  may  boil  by  themselves 
the  cores  and  parings,  in  as  much  water  as  will  cover  them 
well,  till  they  are  entirely  dissolved,  then  strain  them 
through  a  linen  bag ;  while  hot  stir  in  as  much  powdered 
loaf  sugar  as  will  forma  thick  jelly.  To  keep  quinces  well 
requires  plenty  of  rich  syrup. 

PRESERVED   CHERRIES. 

Eemove  the  pits,  allow  a  i)ound  of  sugar  to  a  ]>ound  of 
fruit;  put  a  layer  of  fruit  in  a  preserving-kettle,  then  a  layer 
of  sugar;  continue  thus  until  all  are  in;  boil  until  clear; 
put  them  in  bottles  while  hot  and  seal  them. 

OREEX    OAGE    PtniS. 

Take  an  equal  quantity  of  fruit  and  sugar,  pour  boiling- 
water  on  the  plums  and  wipe  them  dry,  prick  them,  then 
make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  one-half  pint  of  water;  when 
it  boils  put  in  half  the  plums,  let  them  do  slowly  until  they 
look  clear,  then  take  them  out  and  put  in  the  balance.  If 
the  syrup  is  thin,  boil  it  longer. 

PRESERVE!)   PEARS. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  the  pears,  and  put  into  the  kettle, 
just  cover  them  with  water,  and  let  them  simmer  until  soft ; 
take  them  out  and  ]>ut  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  pint  of  water,  and  let  it  boil ;  put  in  the  pears,  and  let 
them  simmer  until  the  sugar  has  penetrated  the  pears,  or 
about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Mrs.  M.  J.  Davis. 


186  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


CITRON    MEIiOX   PRESERVES. 

Peel  and  slice  the  melon  thin;  to  every  j^ound  allow  a 
l)Ound  of  sugar;  to  six  pounds  of  melon  allow  one-quarter 
of  a  ponnd  of  ginger  root;  boil  the  melon  with  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  soda  until  soft;  when  cold  soak  in  strong  alum  water 
one  hour;  boil  the  ginger  root  in  a  syrup  of  one  pint  of 
water  to  two  pounds  of  sugar,  and  skim  well,  then  put  the 
melon  in  and  cook  until  preserved. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Richards. 

STEWEI>   CRANBERRIES. 

For  one  quart,  make  a  syrup  of  one  pint  of  water  to  two 
cups  of  sugar;  let  it  scald,  and  then  drop  in  your  cran- 
berries. Mrs.  Mary  Copp. 

PRESERVE!)   PEACHES. 

Take  a  firm  clingstone  peach,  cut  it  round ;  with  the 
hands  twist  it  round  so  that  it  will  separate,  as  the  stone 
will  adhere  to  one  side,  cut  it  out  with  a  knife,  peel  the 
pieces,  them  weig:h  your  fruit :  allow  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  ])Ouud  of  fruit;  lay  them  on  a  ])latter, 
sprinkle  part  of  the  sugar  over  them,  let  them  stand  three 
or  four  hours,  pour  off  the  juice  into  the  preserving  kettle, 
add  the  remaining  sugar;  when  scalding  hot  ])ut  in  the 
])eacheN,  an<l  boil  tifteeu  or  twenty  minutes,  until  they  look 
clear.  Put  in  glass  Jars.  The  flavor  is  improved  by  taking 
a  few  of  the  pits,  blanch  them  and  let  them  boil  with  the 
fruit. 

GRAPE    PRESERVES. 

With  yourtingers  ])resseach  pulp  from  the  skin;  boil  the 
pulp  about  ten  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  cullender  to 
separate  the  seeds  from  the  pulp;  put  skins,  pulj)  and  sugar 
together,  and  boil  until  Jellied,  allowing  three-(iuarters  of 
a  i)0und  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit  :  weigh  the  fruit 
after  the  seeds  are  out.  You  will  tind  the  Concord  grape 
will  make  the  best  preserves.  Mrs.  Glover. 


PRESERVES  AND  CANNED  FRUITS.  187 


PRESERVED   PL.IJ11S. 

Take  the  large  red  ijliira,  allowing  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit;  put  them  in  a  stone 
jar  or  crock,  a  layer  of  plums,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  so  on 
till  the  jar  is  full;  place  a  plate  on  top,  set  in  the  oven 
with  a  slow  tire,  let  them  cook  slowly  all  day;  when 
done  take  them  out,  put  in  glass  jars,  seal  up  for  winter 
use.  Miss  E.  M.  Tuckkr. 

PRESERVED   APPLES  FOR  TEA. 

Make  a  nice  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  and  put  in  it  a 
small  piece  of  ginger  root;  have  some  nice  apples  peeled 
and  halved,  pippins  are  the  best  to  use;  when  the  syrup  has 
scalded  up  three  or  four  times,  drop  in  the  apples,  and  let 
them  stay  until  transparent.  Pie-plant  is  also  very  nice 
prepared  in  this  way. 

GOOD   APPLE   SAUCE. 

Peel,  quarter  and  core  as  many  apples  as  you  desire,  put 
them  in  a  vessel  with  water  enough  to  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing, add  half  a  cup  of  sugar;  flavor  them  either  with  grated 
nutmeg,  cinnamon,  or  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  After  they 
are  well  cooked,  just  before  pouring  them  into  a  dish,  add  a 
small  lump  of  butter. 

CRAB   APPLE  PRESERVE. 

Make  a  syrup,  allowing  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  apples  ; 
when  the  syrup  becomes  cool,  put  in  the  apples;  boil  them 
without  crowding  until  they  begin  to  grow  soft;  then  take 
them  up  ;  boil  the  syrup  in  the  course  of  three  or  four  days 
and  turn  it  on  them  wliile  hot ;  repeat  this  after  a  few  days 
until  they  appear  to  be  thoroughly  preserved. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM!. 

Three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  to  one  pound  of 
fruit;  put  on  the  stove  and  cook  slowly  most  all  day. 


188  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


PRESERVED   ORANGES. 

Peel  the  oranges,  boil  theni  iu  water  until  you  can  run  a 
straw  through  them  ;  allow  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
for  each  pound  of  fruit ;  take  the  oranges  from  the  water  and 
pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them;  let  them  stand  one  night; 
the  next  day  boil  them  in  the  syrup  until  it  is  thick  and 
clear.  Mrs.  Clara  Young. 

TO    PRESERVE    STRAWBERRIES. 

Hull  the  berries ;  to  one  pound  of  fruit,  three-quarters  of 
a  pouud  of  sugar;  put  the  berries  in  the  kettle;  pour  sugar 
over  them ;  let  them  stand  one  hour;  put  them  on  the  tire: 
let  them  boil  twenty-five  minutes  as  hard  as  they  can  boil : 
let  them  cool  a  little;  jmt  in  Jars.  Cherries  are  done  the 
same  way,  only  one  pouud  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit. 

Mrs.  Brock. 

PRESERVED    CURRAXTS. 

Strip  the  currants  oft"  the  stems;  put  a  pint  of  sugar  to 
a  i)Ound  of  currants  ;  boil  twenty  minutes ;  then  pour  them 
in  Jars.  Strawberries  may  be  done  in  the  same  way,  only 
putting  a  pint  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit. 

COMBIXATIOX   JAM. 

Two  gallons  of  red  cherries,  one  gallon  of  red  raspberries, 
one  gallon  of  currants  ;  stone  the  cherries  and  cook  down  ; 
add  the  raspberries  and  currants  and  cook  again.  To  each 
quart  add  a  pint  of  sugar  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  F.  a.  Durcjiic. 

C'OXSERVES. 

Take  any  kin«l  of  fruit  desired  and  pare  it:  then  put  one 
]>ound  of  fruit  to  one-half  ])0und  of  white  sugar;  ])ut  in  to 
stew  and  let  it  cook  until  the  fruit  begins  to  look  right  dear: 
then  take  a  perforated  spoon  and  take  out  the  fruit  (leaving 
the  syrnj)  on  the  fire  and  adding  more  fruit  to  it:  if  it  does 
not  taste  sweet  enough  add  a  little  more  sugar)  and  drip  it 


PRESERVES  AND  CANNED  FRUITS.  189 


until  the  Juice  is  all  out  and  spread  it  loosely  on  large  flat 
dishes.  Put  the  dishes  in  the  oven  after  dinner,  or 
when  the  oven  is  moderately  warm,  and  let  them  remain  a  few 
hours,  watching  that  the  oven  is  not  too  hot.  Eepeat  this 
for  two  or  tliree  days;  when  it  seems  very  dry,  so  that  it  is 
brittle,  si)rinkle  the  finest  powdered  white  sugar  with  a  fine 
siftei  over  each  piece  and  lay  it  in  boxes  for  further  use. 

Mrs.  Henderson,  Md. 

HOD(^£.PODOE . 

Eight  pounds  of  j)eache8,  eight  pounds  of  pears,  eight 
pounds  of  quinces  if  in  season,  and  two  ])Ounds  of  cantaloi)e  ; 
l)are  six  large  lemons;  boil  the  peel  until  tender;  then  cut 
peel  and  lemon  into  small  pieces  ;  to  each  pound  of  fruit  ])ut 
one-half  pound  of  sugar;  boil  all  well  until  quite  smooth, 
or  about  two  hours;  either  cling  or  freestone  peaches  will 
do.  If  the  pairs  and  quinces  are  hard,  they  should  be  first 
boiled  without  sugar.  Mrs.  Geo.  Henderson. 

BAKi:i>    P£ARN. 

Take  the  hard  preserving  pear;  boil  until  you  can  stick 
your  fork  through  them  easily;  then  put  them  into  a  baking 
l)an,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  two  of  sugar, 
five  or  six  whole  cloves,  a  lump  of  butter;  fill  your  pan 
nearly  full  of  water  ;  then  bake  them.  Mrs.  S. 

PEACH   1IAR1IIAI.ADE. 

Parboil  the  peaches  and  mash  them  fine ;  to  every  i)int 
of  peaches  add  one  pint  of  white  sugar  and  boil  until  clear. 

PEACH  BUTTER. 

One  peck  of  peaches,  two  quarts  of  boiled  cider ;  reduce 
by  boiling  one  gallon  of  sweet  cider  to  one-half  its  quantity, 
pare  and  cut  soft  peaches,  put  into  the  preserving  kettle 
with  the  cider,  boil  until  they  are  reduced  to  a  pulp,  stir- 
ringconstantly ;  if  not  sweet  enough  add  a  little  sugar ;  cover 
tight  in  jars. 


190  MY  MOTHER' 8  COOK  BOOK. 


GRAPE   BrTTER. 

Prepare  your  fruit  tlie  same  as  for  perserves,  allowing;  a 
l)Ound  of  sugar  to  a  i)ouik1  of  fruit,  a  half  pint  of  vinegar 
to  three  pounds  of  sugar;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  nut- 
meg", cinnamon  and  allspice;  boil  until  jellied,  stirring  it  all 
the  time.  Mrs.  G. 

PIXEAPPI.E    BRAXI>Y. 

Prepare  the  pine-apple  as  for  the  table,  cutting  off  the 
hard  knots  and  slicing  in  thin  i)iece8;  allow  one  ])Ound  of 
white  sugar  to  one  i)ound  of  fruit;  put  it  in  glass  Jars,  a 
layer  of  sugar,  a  layer  of  fruit;  when  your  jar  is  full  i)Our 
in  white  brandy  until  all  tiie  spaces  are  tilled. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Clark,  Carondelet. 

BRANDY    PEACHES. 

Three  pints  of  water,  with  soda  enough  to  make  the  water 
slippery,  and  let  the  water  boil;  scald  the  peaches  about 
three  minutes,  enough  to  take  the  skins  off,  then  rinse  them 
in  cold  water  and  >\ipe  with  a  coarse  towel ;  make  your 
syrup  pound  for  pound  ;  when  done,  put  the  peaches  in  and 
let  them  just  scald,  then  turn  off",  and  when  half  cooled  put 
in  brandy  to  suit  and  any  kind  of  spices. 

Mrs.  G.  F.  Filley. 

GEIiATIXE    JEI.I.Y. 

Soak  one  package  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  for 
twenty  minutes,  turn  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  add  one 
quart  of  boiling  water,  one  <piart  of  white  sugar;  stir  into 
this  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg;  boil  tive  minutes;  season 
with  one  champagne  glass  of  wine,  or  juice  of  two  lemons; 
strain  through  a  flannel  bag  into  the  mould. 

Mrs.  (t.  F.  Ftllkv. 

n'II%'E    JELEY. 

One  box  of  gelatine,  two  quarts  of  water  (if  the  weather 
is  cold,   if    not,   three  pints),  three-(iuarters  of  a  pound   of 


FRE8EBVE8  AND  CANNED  FRUITS.  191 

white  sugar,  the  juice  and  rind,  but  not  the  seeds,  of  six 
lemons,  six  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks,  six  or  eight  sticks 
of  cinnamon ;  put  all  these  ingredients  in  a  kettle  and  set  it 
on  the  fire,  and  vStir  it  hard  till  the  gelatine  is  melted,  then 
let  it  boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  add  half  a  pint  of  good 
Madeira  wine,  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag  until  clear,  and 
set  it  in  your  ice-chest  or  in  a  cool  place. 

COFFEE    JEI.L.Y. 

Three-quarters  of  a  package  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a  little 
warm  water,  pour  on  one  quart  of  hot  strong  coti^'ee,  two 
cups  of  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  juice;  strain,  and  set  in 
moulds  to  cool.  Miss  S.  L. 

CHOCOEATE    MAXGE. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  box  of  gelatine,  half  a 
cake  of  chocolate  grated  fine,  one  cup  of  sugar;  mix  and  let 
dissolve  ;  strain  and  set  in  a  cool  place ;  when  quite  cool  add 
one  cuj)  of  sweet  cream,  and  put  in  a  mould.         Miss  S.  L. 

STRAWBERRY,  RASPBERRY  AlVD  BEAC'KBERRY 

JEEEY. 

The  jelly  of  all  these  berries  is  made  in  a  similar  manner. 
Take  the  berries  when  ripe,  mash  them,  aiid  let  them  drain 
through  a  flannel  bag;  put  a  ])int  of  juice  to  one  ])ound  of 
sugar  and  one-third  the  white  of  an  egg,  set  it  on  the  fire  ;  on 
boiling  up  well,  remove  from  the  fire  and  skim  it  clear,  if 
more  scum  arises  take  it  oft'  and  skim  again;  boil  until  it 
becomes  a  jelly.  On  dropping  a  little  into  a  tumbler  ot  cold 
water,  if  it  falls  to  the  bottom  in  solid  form  it  is  jellied. 

CIDER  JEEEY. 

One  box  of  gelatine,  a  scant  quart  of  boiling  water,  two 
lemons,  one  (]uart  of  cider  and  one  pint  of  sugar  ;  put  the 
gelatine  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemons  together  with  the 
sugar,  and  pour  over  them  the  boiling  water;  let  it  dissolve, 
then  add  the  cider  and  juice  of  the  lemons;  strain  through 
a  cloth  into  moulds  and  dishes. 

Mrs.  a.  M.  Gardiner. 


192  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


CRANBERRY.  GRAPE    AND   CrRRANT   JEtliY. 

Pick  your  fruit  from  the  stem,  put  them  in  a  preserving 
kettle,  let  them  boil  until  well  broken  up,  then  pour  into  a 
cullender;  take  the  juice  and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag; 
allow  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit;  before  adding  the 
sugar  boil  the  juice  ten  minutes;  while  tiie  juice  is  boiling, 
waim  the  sugar  by  putting  it  in  a  pan  in  the  oven;  then  put 
the  sugar  to  the  juice,  let  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  pour 
while  hot  into  glass  tumblers. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

TWENTY      GLASSES. 

One  peck  and  a  half  of  good  juicy  apples  (pippins),  one 
dozen  of  lemons  ;  cut  the  lemons,  extract  the  seeds,  and  ])are 
and  core  the  apples,  and  then  boil  together  till  they  are 
mush;  strain,  and  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of 
juice,  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Semple. 

TO  €A]V  T03IAT0ES   WHOLE. 

S(!ald  and  pare  the  tomatoes,  set  them  in  ])ans  in  the  oven 
until  thoroughly  heated ;  if  very  large  take  out  the  core, 
that  they  may  heat  more  readily:  when  done  lift  carefully 
into  the  cans,  and  cover  with  the  licjuor  that  is  found  in  the 
pans ;  if  there  is  not  enougli  of  this,  mash  up  another 
tomato  to  obtain  more.  Tomatoes  put  up  in  this  manner 
can  be  sliced  and  eaten  with  vinegar  as  in  summer. 

Aunt  Mary. 

MINE   JELLY. 

Take  a  box  of  refined  gelatine,  and  pour  u])on  it  a 
I)int  of  cold  water,  after  soaking  ten  minutes,  add  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  stir  it  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved ;  next 
add  a  pin  t  of  good  wine  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 
the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  boil  the  rinds  of  the  lemons 
with  i)ieces  of  cinnamon  in  a  small   quantity  of  water,  and 


PRESERVES  AND  CANNED  FRUITS.  193 


add  the  mixture ;  then  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  stir 
into  it,  put  it  on  the  tire  and  let  it  boil  for  a  minute ;  when 
taken  up  let  it  stand  for  a  few  moments,  then  strain  it 
through  a  jelly-strainer,  with  cloth  well  rinsed  in  boiling 
water,  returning  the  mixture  until  it  comes  out  perfectly 
clear.  Mrs.  Hugh  Campbell. 

CAXXIXG  CORN   AlVD  TOMATOES. 

You  have  heard  of  the  nectar  that's  sipped  by  the  gods ; 
I  can  tell  you  of  something  that's  best  by  all  odds, 
And  far  more  substantial,  I  know  you'll  allow, 
So  listen,  and  how  to  prepare  it  I'll  show : 

Take  a  peck  of  tomatoes  fresh  plucked  from  the  vine. 

The  "Trophy,"  I  think,  you'll  admit  very  fine. 

Take  the  skins  from  their  backs  and  their  bodies  thin  slice, 

Put  into  the  pot,  boil  up  twice  or  thrice; 

Tlien  condiments  add,  the  salt  and  the  pepper, 

These  serve  the  good  purpose  to  keep  them  the  better; 

Have  ready  of  corn  three  dozen  large  ears, 

Of  this  being  too  much  you  need  have  no  fears; 

Let  It  be  of  its  kind  the  sweetest  and  best, 

If  the  seed's  from  Nantucket  you  safely  may  rest; 

With  sharp  knife  cut  each  grain  right  into  the  heart 

('Tis  well  that  this  surgery  causes  no  smart), 

Then  scrape  the  soft  substance  and  milk  from  within, 

And  be  careful  to  keep  it  quite  free  from  the  skin. 

Next  into  the  kettle  and  boil  it  awhile, 

Fifteen  minutes  or  twenty  will  do  it  in  style; 

Now  into  your  cans  you  can  put  it  in  haste, 

And  leave  at  the  top  an  inch  of  clear  space ; 

This  is  said  to  be  needed  for  holding  the  gas. 

And  without  it  there's  danger  of  spoiling  the  "  sass." 

Next  winter  if  Queen  Vic.  from  over  the  sea  . 
Should  honor  herself  by  coming  to  "  tpa," 
Serve  up  some  smoking  hot,  and  she'll  soon  buy  a  book 
And  send  it  by  telegraph  straight  to  her  cook. 

A  Practical  Housekeeper. 

CAIVXED   GRAPES. 

Take  the  Concord  grape  when  fully  ripe,  stemming  tbem 
without   breaking  any  more  than  can  be   helped;  allow  a 
13 


194  MY  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 

little  over  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  toapouud  of  fruit; 
make  a  syrup  of  about  a  quart  of  water  at  a  time,  putting 
in  fruit  enough  for  only  one  can ;  let  your  syrup,  with  the 
fruit  in  it.  Just  come  to  a  boil,  putting  them  in  the  cans 
before  they  crack  open;  seal  them  up. 

Miss  E.  L.  Glovee. 

CA^XED   PEACHES. 

The  white  Heath  clings  are  preferred.  Take  white  clings 
tolerably  ripe,  ring  and  pare  them ;  pare  only  enough  for 
four  cans;  make  a  syrup  of  half  a  pint  of  sugar  to  one 
quart  of  water  (this  quantity  usually  tills  two  one-quart 
cans).  First  put  in  your  kettle  the  water,  add  the  sugar, 
when  that  is  dissolved  put  in  the  peaches,  cook  them  a  few 
minutes,  or  until  a  silver  fork  will  enter  them  easily,  but  not 
enough,  for  the  fruit  to  break,  then  put  in  cans  and  seal 
immediately;  can  as  soon  as  })08sible  after  peeling  to  pre- 
vent their  discoloring  by  exposure  to  the  air.  Fruit  of  all 
kinds  may  be  canned  by  the  above  rule  excepting  pears  and 
quinces,  which,  if  very  hard,  must  first  be  boiled  in  clear 
water  until  tender,  then  make  the  syrup  and  let  them  boil  a 
few  minutes.  The  Bartlett  ])ears,  when  nearly  ripe,  are  very 
fine;  they  will  not  need  boiling  before  ]nitting  into  the 
syrup. 

€ANBfEl>   OCHRE    AM>   TOMATOES. 

To  one  peck  of  tomatoes  take  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of 
ochre,  slice  the  ochre,  boil  it  first  in  a  little  water  until  ten- 
der, then  add  the  tomatoes,  boil  both  a  few  minutes,  then  put 
them  in  cans. 


PICKLES.  195 


PICKLES 


In  preparingr  pickles  always  use  the  best  of  cider  viuegar. 
A, porcelain  kettle  is  the  best  to  use;  copi)er  should  be 
avoided,  as  it  is  poisonous ;  grape  leaves  are  good  to  green 
them  with,  and  a  very  little  alum  makes  them  brittle. 

CUCUMBER  PICKI.es. 

Put  freshly  picked  cucumbers  in  cold,  strong  brine,  suf- 
ficient to  cover  them ;  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours ; 
then  turn  off  the  brine;  boil,  skim  and  ponr  over  the  encum- 
bers again;  repeat  this  every  other  day  until  the  brine  has 
been  scalded  three  times;  on  the  day  following  the  last 
scalding  throw  away  the  brine  and  set  the  cucumbers,  cov- 
ered with  fresh  cold  water,  over  the  fire,  first  lining  the 
kettle  with  grape  leaves  ;  cover  the  pickles  closely  with  the 
leaves  and  put  in  the  kettle  a  small  piece  of  alum;  scald 
(Tiot  boil)  the  pickles  nntil  they  begin  to  turn  green  ;  then 
turn  off  the  water;  wipe  the  pickles;  put  them  in  jars  and 
pour  over  them  good  cider  vinegar  that  has  been  boiled  fif- 
teen minutes  and  well  skimmed.  Boil  in  the  vinegar  whole 
cloves,  allspice,  peppercorns  and  another  small  bit  of  alum. 
Wiien  cold,  cork  or  seal  the  jars,  and  put  in   a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Krum. 

CUCUMBER  PICKI.es. 

Make  a  brine  not  too  strong,  not  strong  enough  to  bear  an 
Q.^^^  and  pour  over  your  cucumbers,  hot;  repeat  this  three 
times  in  nine  days;  take  out  of  the  brine;  drain  and  wipe 
well;  then  put  them  in  jars  with  your  s[)ices,  horseradish, 
etc.;  ])Our  cold  vinegar  over  them;  let  them  stand  three 
weeks  before  using  Mrs.  Cornelia  Beer. 


196  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


PICKIiEI>  CICIMBERS. 

Wipe  the  cucumbers  carefully ;  have  ready  stick  cinna- 
raou,  cloves,  allspice,  mustard  seed,  celery  seed,  a  little  pul- 
verized alum,  small  green  peppers  and  salt;  put  in  a  stone 
Jar  a  layer  of  pickles  and  a  layer  of  spices,  alternately,  until 
the  jar  is  filled ;  pour  good  cider  vinegar  over  them  until 
covered ;  tie  brown  paper  tightly  over  the  jar  and  put  in  a 
cool  place  5  look  at  them  from  time  to  time  to  see  that  no 
scum  rises.  Mes.  O.  D.  Filley.* 

TO.^IATO    KETCHUP. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes,  skin  and  stew  in  a  tin  or  pewter 
vessel,  with  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  till  quite  soft;  sift  them, 
being  careful  to  get  all  the  pulps  through;  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Hour  of  mustard 
wet  in  a  gill  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  cloves, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  allsytice,  tAvo  and  a  half  table- 
spoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cayenne 
pepi)er;  boil  slowly  one  hour.        Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulstfer. 

TOMATO   KEr<  JIIP. 

Half  a  bushel  of  tomatoes,  i)eel  off  the  skin  and  boil 
until  done,  strain  them  through  a  seive,  then  add  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  allspice,  cloves  and  red  pepper,  half  a  ])int  of 
salt,  half  a  pint  of  vinegar;  cook  down  until  thick. 

Mrs.  James  Bartlett. 

MIXEO   PK'KI.ES. 

Equal  portions  of  tomatoes,  onions,  cucumbers  and  cab- 
bage sliced  very  thin,  put  in  separate  baskets  and  cover 
with  salt,  drip  twelve  hours,  wash  with  cold  water  and  mix 
white  mustard  seed,  cloves  and  cinnamon  ;  put  in  jars  and 
coA'cr  with  cold  vinegar. 

TOMATO   KETCHUP. 

Wipe  the  tomatoes  and  put  them  in  a  kettle,  cover  them 
close,  and  set  them  where   they  will  become  hot  enough  to 


PICKLES.  197 

burst;  throw  away  the  water;  when  the  tomatoes  are  cool 
pass  the  pulp  through  a  sieve.  Measure  the  pulp,  and  to 
each  quart  add  two-thirds  of  a  wine-glass  of  salt,  one-quarter 
of  a  wine-glass  of  cloves  (whole),  one-(]narter  of  a  wine- 
glass of  allspice  (whole),  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  quarter  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  cayenne,  two  onions  (to  be  taken  out  after  boiling), 
two  thirds  of  a  tumblerful  of  vinegar:  one  wine-glassful 
of  brandy  to  be  put  in  after  boiling.  Cover  and  boil 
twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  Wm.  Maurice. 

CHOPPED  PICKI.ES. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  two  quarts  of  green  pepjiers, 
half  a  peck  of  onions  chopped  fine,  one  teacup  of  sugar,  one 
teacup  of  salt,  two  ounces  of  cloves,  two  ounces  oi"  allspice, 
one  large  nutmeg,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  pint  of  mustard  seed, 
three  quarts  of  vinegar;  mix  all  together  after  the  tomatoes 
are  well  drained,  and  boil  until  tender. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer. 

NPANISII   PICKIiES. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one  peck  of  cabbage,  onions 
to  suit  the  taste :  chop  them  quite  fine,  then  put  them  in  a 
Jar  with  a  little  salt  mixed  through  them,  and  let  them  stand 
one  day,  then  put  them  in  a  bag  and  wring  as  dry  as  pos- 
sible, fill  into  jars  loosely,  boil  your  vinegar  with  s])ices  and 
pour  over.     They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few  days. 

Mrs.  Richards. 

WESTERN    PICKI.ES. 

Beans,  green  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  onions  sliced ;  j>ut  a 
layer  of  them  in  the  kettle ;  then  add  a  layer  of  salt  and 
whole  spices;  fill  up  the  kettle  with  vinegar,  let  it  boil 
once  or  twice;  when  cold  add  a  tumbler  one-third  full  of 
sweet  oil  and  mustard.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer. 


198  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


HIGDO^S. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes,  eiglit  greeu  i)ei)pei\s,  eight  onions, 
twelve  large  cucumbers,  two  tablespoons  of  whole  cloves, 
two  of  allspice,  and  half  a  pint  of  white  mustard  seed  ;  chop 
all  the  vegetables  and  put  them  in  alternate  layers  in  a  stone 
jar,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  salt;  let  them  stand  twenty- 
four  hours;  then  drain  dry  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
mustard  seed.  Put  the  mixture  in  jars ;  boil  the  spice  in 
cider  vinegar,  and  when  cold  pour  over  the  pickles.  Cover 
closely  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Mr.s.  J.  M.  Kkum. 

CAIJMFI.OWER. 

Sprinkle  salt  over  layers  of  caulitiower,  then  cover  with 
rainwater,  let  it  stand  over  night,  turn  all  into  a  kettle  and 
let  it  come  to  a  boil  ;  drain  the  caulitiower  in  a  cullender, 
scald  the  vinegar,  and  i)ut  in  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of 
mustard,  a  few  cloves,  alls])ice,  small  onions  and  mustard 
seed;  ponrovr'r  the  caulitiower,  and  bottle  when  cold. 

ItlPK    CrriMBKR    PICKLES. 

Pare  the  cucumbers,  slice  them  lengthwise,  not  very  thin, 
take  out  the  seeds,  put  in  brine  twenty-four  hours,  pour  ott", 
and  ])our  on  alum-water  boiling  hot,  let  it  stainl  forty-eight 
hours,  pour  oti";  then  to  one  gallon  of  vinegar  add  a  pound 
of  sugar,  pepper  and  spice  to  taste,  scald  together  and 
l>ouron  boiling  iiot.       Mrs.  J.  Palmer,  New  Hampsliire. 

FOR  0\K    IIIIMIRED   ^ARTIXOES. 

Soak  in  salt  and  water  (a  i)int  of  salt  to  100),  changing 
the  brine  every  other  day,  nine  days,  then  i)ut  one  ounce  of 
cloves,  one  ounce  of  cassia,  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce 
of  ginger,  whole,  into  as  much  cold  vinegar  as  will  cover 
them  when  done;  boil  them  all  together  until  you  have  the 
strength  of  the  spice,  and  ])our  it  over  the  martinoes,  hav- 
ing drained  them  well  from  the  brine. 

Mus.  T.  T.  Richards. 


PICKLES.  199 


PICKI.ED   Ox\IO:»fS. 

Boil  until  tender  in  milk,  then  pour  vinegar  over  tbeui 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Pulsifer. 

MANGO  PICKtES. 

One  ])ound  of  race  ginger,  one  pound  of  black  mustard 
seed  (swell  the  seed  in  vinegar),  one  pound  of  white  mustard 
seed,  one  pound  of  horseradish  scraped,  one  ounce  of  mace, 
one  ounce  of  cloves,  two  ounces  of  allspice,  four  ounces  of 
black  pepper,  two  ounces  of  pulverized  turmeric,  four 
ounces  of  sweet  oil ;  all  the  ingredients  must  be  pulverized 
and  mixed  together.  Take  fifty  mangoes,  scrape  and  fill 
them  with  salt  the  night  before  you  want  to  make  them. 
The  above  ingredients  Mill  fill  fifty  mangoes. 

CHUTNEY. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one  cup  of  salt,  six  large 
green  peppers,  six  onions,  six  lemons,  one  cup  of  horse- 
radish ;  chop  each  well  and  fine ;  drain  off  the  tomatoes 
after  chopping;  four  large  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablesj)Oonfuls 
of  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon  each  ;  cover  the  whole  with 
three  pints  of  vinegar,  and  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  An 
extra  nice  pickle.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Morton. 

YEIiliOW  PI€KL.ES. 

Take  one  pound  of  race  ginger,  lay  it  in  water  over  night, 
one  pound  of  garlic  strung  on  a  thread,  a  few  small  onions: 
salt  the  whole  well  and  let  them  stand  three  days  in  a  strong- 
brine;  one  pint  of  mustard  seed  washed  and  dried  in  the 
sun,  one  ounce  of  best  mustard,  two  ounces  of  turmeric; 
put  these  ingredients  into  a  stone  jar  with  two  gallons  of 
strong  vinegar ;  then  take  your  articles  for  pickles,  pears, 
peaches,  grapes,  corn,  beans  and  cauliflower,  cut  them  in 
quarters  and  sizes  to  suit,  and  let  them  be  salted  for  a  week  ; 
take  them  out  and  set  in  the  sun  to  dry;  be  careful  to  press 
the  water  out  each  day ;  wash  them  clean  in  salted  water, 
wipe  them  on  a  dry  towel,  put  them  in  the  sun  for  an  hour 
or  two.  then  put  them  in  your  jar  of  preparations. 


200  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


PL-im   KETCHUP. 

Nine  pounds  of  plums,  six  pounds  or  sugar  ;  boil  plums 
and  sugar  together,  stirring  them  until  the  plums  crack 
open,  then  skim  out  as  many  of  the  stones  as  possible;  boil 
slowly  from  two  to  four  hours;  add  one  quart  of  good  vine- 
gar, and  boil  half  an  hour,  then  add  one  teacup  of  ground 
spices,  such  as  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice.  Bottle  and 
seal  boiling  hot. 

CHOW-CHOW   FICKI.E. 

Slice  thin  two  pecks  of  green  tomatoes,  half  a  peck  of 
white  onions,  two  dozen  large  green  peppers,  and  four  dozen 
cucumbers;  salt  them  twenty-four  hours,  then  drain  in  a  bag- 
all  night ;  in  tlie  morning  boil  in  weak  vinegar  and  let  them 
remain  until  next  morning;  pour  that  oft",  and  in  a  large 
preserving  kettle  or  i)an  put  a  layer  of  the  sliced  vegetables 
and  a  layer  of  brown  sugar,  turmeric,  allspice,  cloves,  cin- 
namon, mace  and  white  mustard  seed;  till  up  with  alternate 
layers,  then  cover  with  the  best  cider  vinegar  an<l  boil  until 
tender. 

FREXCH  PICK  I.E. 
One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  cut  in  slices;  take  a  layer  of 
tomatoes  and  sprinkle  salt  over  them  and  let  them  stand 
over  night  ;  in  the  morning  pour  oft"  the  liquor  and  squeeze 
quite  dry;  add  three  green  pei»])ers,  six  onions,  one  cabbage 
cut  tine,  one-ciuarter  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  one-half 
))Ound  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  cloves  and  allspice,  two  ounces 
of  celery  seed  ;  mix  all  together  and  cover  with  vinegar ;  boil 
two  hours;  add  vinegar  when  boiling  if  not  enough. 

L. 

FREXCII   PICKLE. 

One  i)eck  of  tomatoes,  one-half  peck  of  string  beans,  one- 
fourth  peck  of  white  onions,  one-fourth  pint  of  small  red  and 
green  i)eppers,  two  heads  of  cabbage,  four  tablesi)oonfuls  of 
white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  whole  cloves,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  all- 


PICKLES.  201 


spice,  one  small  box  of  yellow  mustard,  one  pound  of  brown 
sugar;  slice  the  tomatoes  and  lay  in  strong  brine  over 
nigbt,  then  press  them  through  a  cullender,  chop  the  cab- 
bage and  onions,  break  the  beans,  then  mix  all  these  well 
with  the  spices ;  put  in  a  large  kettle  and  cover  with  vine- 
gar ;  boil  it  three  hours  ;  one  ounce  of  turmeric. 

Mrs.  K.  V. 

EAST-IXMIA   PICKIiES. 

Take  one  i)eck  of  green  tomatoes,  one-half  i)eck  of  sliced 
onions,  four  caulitlowers,  salted  twenty-four  hours;  drain 
them  and  mix  with  a  handful  of  horseradish,  one  ounce 
of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of 
white  pepi>er,  one-quarter  of  a  ])Ound  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  mustard  seed ;  two  ounces  of 
chopped  celery,  fifty  small  cucumbers ;  put  all  in  a  kettle 
and  cover  with  cold  vinegar ;  boil  fifteen  minutes;  put  in  a 
stone  Jar,  and  as  soon  as  cold  they  are  ready  to  eat. 

PICOI.II.V. 

Take  one-half  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  cut  in  slices  the 
same  waj'  as  the  core  runs,  let  them  stand  in  salt  overnight, 
then  drain  oif ;  add  one  large  onion  and  three  green  peppers, 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  all  kinds  of  spices,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
and  vinegar  enough  to  nearly  cover;  put  the  cloves  in 
whole;  cook  till  tendejT.     The  above  will  make  three  quaits. 

PEPPER  HASH. 

Put  your  peppers  in  strong  salt  and  water  for  three  days, 
then  cut  them  up  fine ;  cut  white  cabbage  and  sprinkle  with 
salt,  letting  it  stand  two  or  three  hours,  then  squeeze  it  out, 
and  mix  the  cabbage  and  pei)pers,  sprinkle  mustard  seed 
over  them  ;  let  your  vinegar  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over 
and  tie  up.  Mrs.  Brock. 

CHOW-CHOW  PICKI.E. 

Half  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  two  large  heads  of  cab- 
bage,  fifteen  large  onions,  twenty-five  cucumbers,  twelve 


202  MY  MO  TREE'S  COOK  BOOK. 

green  peppers,  one  pint  of  grated  horseradish,  lialf  a  pound 
of  white  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  of  celery  seed,  some 
small  white  onions,  half  a  teacup  of  ground  pepper,  half  a 
cup  of  turmeric,  half  a  cup  of  cinnamon  ;  cut  the  onions, 
tomatoes,  cucumbers,  cabbage  and  peppers,  and  salt  tbem 
down  over  night;  in  the  morning  drain  off  the  brine  and 
put  them  to  soak  in  vinegar  and  water  or  thin  vinegar;  let 
them  remain  a  day  or  two,  then  drain  again,  and  mix  the 
spices;  boil  one  and  a  half  gallons  of  vinegar  and  tive 
l)Ounds  of  brown  sugar  together  and  pour  hot  over  the 
ingredients;  do  this  three  mornings;  the  third  morning  mix 
one  pound  of  English  mustard  with  half  a  ])intof  salad  oil, 
then  put  away  in  jars,     A  nice  rich  pickle. 

Mrs,  R.  H.  Morton. 

SWEET   TO:»IATO   PICKI.ES. 

Half  a  [)c(;k  of  green  tomatoes,  one  gallon  of  vinegar, 
two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-(|uarter  of  a  ])0und  of  stick 
cinnamon ;  boil  the  vinegar  and  sugar  tifteen  minutes,  slice 
the  tomatoes  and  boil  with  the  spice  in  the  vinegar  tifteen 
minutes  longer ;  skim  out  the  tomatoes  and  boil  the  syrup 
half  an  hour,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes;  seal  up  in  jars. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  Woodward. 

I»IC'KliEI>   TO.>IAT«ES. 

Eight  |)Ounds  of  green  tomatoes,  chop  tine,  and  pour  otf 
the  liquid,  four  ponuds  of  sugar,  two  quarts  of  cider  vine- 
gar, eight  or  ten  onions,  two  teas])OonfnlK  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  one  nut- 
meg; boil  two  or  three  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Palmer,  New  Hamjjshire. 

PICKI.E1>   PEACHES. 

To  seven  pounds  of  peaches,  three  pounds  of  light 
brown  sugar  and  one  (juart  of  vinegar,  one  lialf  ounce  of 
whole  cloves  and  mace. 


PICKLES.  20.3 


PICKI.ED  I>AMSOWS. 

One  i)eck  of  damsons,  seven  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one 
quart  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  mace  and  whole  cloves  each. 

SPICED   TOMATOES. 

Five  pounds  of  tomatoes,  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar, 
one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  tablesi)Oonful  of  cloves,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  whole  cinnamon  ;  simmer  one-half  hour. 

Mrs.  Duncan. 

SPICED   TOMATOES. 

To  a  half  bushel  of  tomatoes,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one 
quart  of  sugar;  spice  highly,  boil  until  thick;  will  keep  all 
wintei-;  is  very  nice  with  meat.  Mrs.  F.  Hearsam. 

SPICED  ClIRRAXTS. 

Five  pounds  of  currants,  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  clo\  es,  one  tablespoonful  of 
allspice,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  mace,  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  pint  of  vinegar. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 

Peel  your  peaches  (clingstones),  make  a  syrup  of  two 
pounds  of  brown  sugar  to  a  pint  of  vinegar;  put  in  your 
peaches  and  boil  till  tender ;  put  them  away  with  allspice, 
mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  tie  the  spices  in  muslin  V)ags. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Semple. 

PICKL.ED   CHERRIES. 

One  gallon  of  cherries,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of 
vinegar;  boil  the  vinegar  and  sugar  together  and  pour  over 
the  cherries  three  mornings  in  succession;  one  ounce  of  cin- 
namon, one  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of 
allspice. 

MADAME  SITBIT'S  SWEET  PICKL.ES. 

Green  muskmelons,  pare  and  take  out  the  inside,  cut  up 
and  put  into  vinegar  for  a  week,  take  out,  throw  away  the 


204  MY  MO  THER  '8  COOK  BO  OK. 


vinegar,  wipe  and  stick  full  of  cinnamon  and  cloves  ;  make 
a  syrup,  one  pound  of  vinegar  to  one  pound  of  melon,  with 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  added  to  the  vinegar; 
when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  put  in  the  melons  and  boil  until 
you  can  stick  a  broom-straw  through  them,  take  out  the 
melons  and  boil  down  the  syrup  almost  to  the  consistency 
of  jelly  ;  put  all  together,  adding  a  small  bag  of  spices,  and 
it  will  keep  any  length  of  time. 

CAXTAIiOPE   PICKLES. 

Cut  the  melons,  which  must  not  be  (piite  ripe,  into  any 
shape  you  wish,  sprinkle  salt  on  them  and  let  lie  several 
hours ;  drain  oft"  the  liquor,  stripping  the  pieces  with  your 
lingers  ;  weigh  the  melon  and  use  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
one  pound  of  fruit;  melt  the  sugar  in  a  little  water,  boil  the 
melon  in  tbe  syrup  until  clear;  don't  put  in  many  pieces  at 
a  time;  lay  them  in  ajar  and  cover  with  strong  vinegar,  set 
the  syrup  away  ;  next  day  pour  off  this  vinegar  and  throw 
it  aw^ay,  take  as  much  more  strong  vinegar,  put  with  the 
syrup  and  melon,  add  stick  cinnamon  and  ginger  root,  boil 
all  together  a  few  moments,  and  put  in  jars. 

Mtss  M.  E.  Tucker. 

VERY   FIIVE   TOMATO    KETCIH  l». 

Half  a  bushel  of  skinned  tomatoes,  add  one  quart  of 
good  vinegar,  half  a  pound  of  line  table  salt,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  whole  black  pei)i)er,  one  ounce  of  red  i)epper,  a 
(juarter  of  a  pound  of  allspice,  six  good  sized  onions  cut 
tine,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  boil 
the  whole  six  hours,  stirring  all  the  time  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing; when  cool,  strain  and  bottle  ;  .vou  can  add  brandy,  wine 
or  any  li«juor  to  taste,  and  a  small  quantity  of  garlic. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Smith,  Cin. 

GOOSEREKKY   KETCHUP. 

Ten  pounds  of  fruit  just  before  ripe,  live  pounds  of  sugar, 
one  (juart  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  each  of  ground  pep- 


FICELUS.  205 


per,  cinnamon  allspice  and  cloves;  put  the  sugar  in  the  vin- 
egar and  boil  until  dissolved,  then  add  spices  and  scald  well. 

Mrs,  Lewis  E.  Kline. 

CUClJx^IBER  KETCIIIP. 

Grate  three  good  sized  cucumbers  and  one  white  onion, 
to  which  add  one  tablespoonful  of  grated  horseradish,  one 
of  salt  and  one  of  ground  black  pepper ;  put  the  whole  into 
one  pint  of  vinegar,  then  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  It  will 
keep  well  for  one  year  only. 

ClHlI.I   SAl :€E. 

Four  dozen  large  tomatoes  skinned,  sixteen  green  pep- 
I)ers,  seeds  out,  sixteen  white  onions,  six  tablespoons  of 
salt,  six  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar,  four  coffee-cups  of 
vinegar;  chop  all  tine;  boil  two  hours,  and  just  before  tak- 
ing oft'  the  tire  add  four  ounces  of  celery  seed. 

SPASflSH  TOMATO   SAUCE. 

Twelve  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  three  dozen  ripe  tomatoes, 
one  and  a  half  dozen  red  peppers,  one  dozen  of  onions,  six 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  twelve  teacups  of  vinegar,  six  tea- 
spoonfuls  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves;  chop  all 
tine  and  l)oil  two  hours.     Very  tine  sauce. 

Mrs.  Powell. 

TOMATO   SAVCE. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  sliced,  one  dozen  onions 
sliced;  sprinkle  them  with  salt;  let  them  stand  until  the 
next  day,  then  drain  them.  Use  the  following  spices:  One 
small  box  of  yellow  mustard,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of 
ground  black  pepper,  one  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  one  ounce 
of  yellow  mustard  seed  ;  put  in  the  kettle  a  layer  of  spices 
and  one  of  tomatoes  and  onions  alternately;  cover  them 
with  the  best  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  turmeric;  wet  the 
mustard  before  i)utting  in  with  the  vinegar.  Let  the  whole 
boil  half  an  hour.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Young. 


206  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


DRINKS. 


COFFEE. 

Coffee  slioiild  be  roasted  quickly  in  a  pan  in  the  oven, 
stirring  every  few  minutes ;  when  a  bright  brown,  and  still 
hot,  beat  n\\  tlie  white  of  an  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  and  stir  up  well  with  it.  Grind  just  enough 
at  a  time  for  a  single  making. 

BOII.ED    COFFEE. 

Stir  the  l)eaten  white  and  shell  of  one  egg  with  one-half 
l)int  of  ground  coffee  and  a  very  little  cold  water,  and  mix 
with  a  quart  of  boiling  water  in  the  coffee-boiler:  boil  i)ietty 
fast  for  twelve  minutes;  ]>our  in  one  tablespoonful  of  cold 
water,  and  take  from  the  fire  ;  after  settling  for  five  minutes 
pour  into  the  coffee-pot,  which  should  previously  be  well 
scalded. 

1>RIP   COFFEE. 

More  coffee  should  be  allowed  for  a  given  «iuantity  of 
water  than  if  boiled  and  ground  v<'ry  fine;  put  the  coffee  in 
the  uppermost  compartment,  pour  on  boiling  water,  slowly 
at  first  until  the  coffee  is  saturated,  then  more  rapidly,  shut 
down  the  to]),  and  the  coffee  ought  to  be  ready  when  it  has 
passed  through  the  strainers;  if  not  strong  enough,  run  it 
through  again. 

ARTIFICIAL  CREA.H. 

Roil  one  (piart  of  milk,  take  one  teasj>oonful  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk,  one 
egg  beaten  very  light;  stir  all  into  the  boiled  milk  giadually, 
so  as  not  to  cook  the  egg  in  a  curd  ;  stir  tlie  whole  until  cold  ; 
this  may  be  done  more  rapidly  by  setting  the  pan  in  cold 
water.  Mks.  Powell. 


DRINKS.  20' 


TEA. 


Oue  teaspoonful  of  tea  for  each  person,  and  one  for  the 
pot,  is  the  general  rule.  Scald  tlie  teapot  before  putting  iu  the 
tea  aud  set  it  on  the  stove  for  one  minute ;  pour  on  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  it  well,  and  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes 
in  a  warm  place,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  put  in  as  much  boiling- 
water  as  needed,  and  pour  into  a  heated  pot  for  the  table. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  water  throw  two  divisions 
(two  ounces)  of  chocolate  previously  cut  tine,  then  boil  it 
from  tive  to  seven  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 

FREXCH  CHOCOLATE. 

Allow  two  sticks  of  chocolate  to  one  pint  of  milk  ;  scrape 
the  chocolate  and  boil  it  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  : 
when  the  milk  is  boiling  stir  in  the  chocolate,  after  adding 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  whipped.  Let  it  boil  five  min- 
utes, and  serve  immediately.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  whip- 
ped cream  in  each  cup  before  serving. 

CHERRY   WIXE. 

Two  (juarts  of  cherries,  one  of  alcohol,  three  <juarts  of 
water,  sugar  to  taste;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  water,  split  and 
leave  the  seed  in  the  cherries.  Mrs.  Lewis  E,  Kline. 

]IIII.K    PUXCH. 

One  tumbler  of  milk  well  sweetened,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  best  brandy  well  stirred  in;  suitable  for  invalids  and 
given  with  ice.  Mrs.  Teasdale. 

MILK   PUNCH  Xo.  2. 

Two  tablespoons  of  old  Jamaica  rum,  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  or  to  taste,  a  little  grated  nutmeg ;  pour  over  these 
one  pint  of  milk  and  water  scalded  together,  half  and  half, 
or,  if  much  fever  more  water  than  milk,  if  none,  there  may 
be  two-thirds  milk.  A  pint  made  in  the  morning  and  one  in 
the  afternoon  is  not  too  much  if  disposed  to  use  it  so  freely. 


208  MY  MO THER '8  COOK  BOOK. 


BLACKBERRY    CORBIAL. 

To  four  gallons  of  berries  put  one  gallon  of  water,  boil 
about  half  an  hour,  strain  through  flannel  or  cotton  ;  to  each 
gallon  of  juice  put  four  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugai ;  when 
cool  add  two  and  a  half  quarts  of  white  rum  or  two  quarts 
of  the  best  brandy,  or  any  liquor  you  may  prefer;  i)ut  a  few 
cloves  in  each  bottle.  Two  gallons  of  berries  and  two  quarts 
of  water  make  one  gallon  of  juice. 

Mrs.  T.  T.  Kichards. 

SPICED   BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Take  one  gallon  of  blackberry  juice,  add  four  pounds  of 
white  sugar,  boil  and  skim  oft',  then  add  one  ounce  of  ground 
cloves,  one  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon,  ten  grated  nutmegs; 
boil  down  until  quite  thick,  then  let  it  cool  and  settle; 
afterwards  drain  oft"  and  add  one  pint  of  good  brandy. 

Mrs.  Maurice. 

CREA^I   BEER. 

Take  two  and  a  half  ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  one  ounce 
of  cream  tartar,  two  quarts  of  water,  two  pounds  of  sugar 
(brown  will  answer),  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  and 
mixed  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  put  all  the  above 
articles  together  in  a  tin  or  brass  kettle  and  let  them  scald, 
not  boil;  when  (;ool  ad<l  twenty  drops  of  oil  of  lemon,  or 
wintergreen,  or  whatever  you  like,  to  flavor  it ;  bottle  it  and 
keep  it  in  a  cool  ])lace.  Directions  for  use:  Take  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  above  syrup  to  a  tumbler  of  water,  and  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda;  drink  immediately. 

'   crea:^i  beer. 

Two  i)ounds  of  sugar,  three  pints  of  water,  two  ounces 
of  taitaric  acid  and  jui(;e  of  half  a  lemon;  scald  these; 
wlien  nearly  cold  add  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and 
one-half  a  teacup  of  flour:  flavor  with  half  an  ounce  of 
wintergreen  ;  strain  and  l)ottle  and  place  in  a  cool  place. 
Put  about  two  tablespoons  of  the  syrup  in  a  glass  of  water; 
add  a  little  soda. 


DRINKS.  209 


RASPBERRY    VINEGAR. 

Put  two  quarts  of  raspberries  in  a  large  bowl,  pour  over 
them  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  the  next  day  strain  the  liquor 
on  two  quarts  of  fresh  berries,  let  them  stand  a  day  and 
strain  it;  to  each  pint  of  liquor  put  one  pound  of  white 
sugar,  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved,  put  in  a  kettle  and  boil 
it  half  an  hour,  skim  it  and  bottle  it  when  cold.  Blackber- 
ries are  done  the  same  way.  Mrs.  Brock. 

CURRAXT    WINE. 

One  quart  of  currant  Juice,  three  quarts  of  water,  two 
and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar;  mix  well  together;  pour  into  a 
stone  jug;  let  it  stand  until  it  is  done  working,  say  three 
weeks;  bottle  for  use.  Mrs.  D.  R.  Powell. 

CURRANT    WINE. 

To  one  quart  of  juice,  add  one  quart  water  and  four 
pounds  of  sugar.  Mrs.  S.  C.  Davis. 

CURRANT   WINE. 

Take  currants  fully  ripe;  mash  them  and  strain  through 
a  jelly  bag;  for  every  quart  of  juice  add  three  pounds  of 
brown  sugar  and  water  enough  to  make  a  gallon  ;  let  it  stand 
over  night  uncovered  ;  skim  and  till  a  clean  keg,  one  that  has 
held  spirits  is  best,  reserving  enough  to  till  up  as  it 
ferments;  when  fermentation  has  ceased  put  the  bung  in 
tightly  and  keep  the  keg  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  It  will  be 
r'^idy  for  use  in  three  or  four  months. 

Mrs.  O.  D.  Filley. 

TO^IATO   WINE. 

Five  quarts  of  tomato  juice,  two  and  a  half  (piarts  of 

water,  six  pounds  of    white  sugar;    pour  into   .jugs;    cork 

tightly  and  keep  until  March  or  April,  then  bottle;  made  of 

yellow  tomatoes  is  much  more  delicate. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Sayre. 
14 


210  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


HIE  AD. 

To  three  poiiuds  of  suj;;ar  add  three  pints  of  boiling 
water,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one-(]narter  of  a  pound  of 
taitaiic  acid  and  one  ounce  of  the  essence  of  sassafras ; 
bottle  when  cold.  To  a  tumbler  nearly  full  of  water,  [)ut 
two  tablespoons  of  mead  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda. 

FINE   I.EMONAWE. 

Chop  up  one-half  of  either  fresh  or  canned  pineapple ; 
cover  with  wliite  sugar  and  leave  for  a  few  moments  to 
extract  the  juice;  squeeze  three  large  lemons  into  the 
pitcher;  sweeten;  add  all  the  pineapi)le,  and  fill  the  pitcher 
with  ice  pounded  to  a  snow;  a  glass  of  wine  improves  it  if 
liked.  In  summer  fresh  fruits  may  also  be  added,  such  as 
strawberries,  raspberries,  etc.  Miss  Larkin. 


DISHES  FOR  INVALIDS.  211 


DISHES  FOR  INVALIDS. 


Ill  prepariug  auytbing  for  invalids,  see  that  it  is  perfectly 
clean  aud  as  tempting  as  possible.  Put  a  clean  white  uapkin 
on  a  waiter,  serve  up  the  food  in  small  quantities,  using  the 
best  china  or  stoneware. 

BEEF   TEA. 

Take  some  nice  raw  beef  cut  into  small  pieces,  taking  out 
every  particle  of  fat  or  stringy  part,  sprinkle  the  pieces 
with  a  little  salt,  put  into  a  thick  bottle,  or  I  think  a  tin 
farina  or  milk-boiler  the  best,  and  then  there  is  no  danger 
of  any  breakage ;  cover  close,  and  set  that  into  the  outside 
boiler  containing  cold  water;  as  the  water  gradually  heats 
it  draws  thejuices  of  the  beef  out  better;  cook  about  three 
hours,  turn  out  into  a  bowl,  and  skim  off  every  particle  of 
grease,  of  which  there  should  be  but  very  little,  if  any;  or, 
if  there  is  time,  let  it  get  cold,  and  it  can  be  more  easily 
skimmed;  some  prefer  it  cold.  From  three  to  four  pounds 
of  beef  makes  about  one  pint  of  beef  tea. 

E.  F.  Richards. 

BEEF  TEA   Bfo.  3. 

To  each  pound  of  fresh  beef  (the  round  is  the  best)  add 
one  pint  of  cold  water;  cut  the  beef  in  small  pieces;  pour 
the  water  upon  it  and  let  it  stand  two  hours  to  extract  the 
juice;  set  it  on  the  liack  of  the  stove  and  heat  gradually  to 
boiling  point;  do  not  let  it  boil;  add  salt  to  taste;  a  little 
pepper  for  those  who  like  it;  strain. 

MUTTOX   BROTH. 

Take  a  nice  mutton  bone  with  a  good  bit  of  meat  attached, 
cover  with  cold  water  and  let  it  cook  until   the  meat  falls 


212  MY  MOTHER'S  COOK  BOOK. 


from  the  bone  in  rags,  strain  the  liquor  and  let  it  get  cold, 
so  that  the  fat  can  be  easily  skimmed  off;  season  with  salt, 
add  some  rice  or  barley,  wliich  has  been  ])reviously  swelled 
or  (cooked  in  water,  to  thicken;  serve  hot.  Veal  broth  may 
be  made  in  the  same  way,  also  chicken  broth;  some  add  a 
little  milk. 

CHICKEX  JKLLY. 
Have  the  chicken  well  cleaned,  cut  u])  into  small  i)ieces, 
and  crack  the  joints  and  bones  well ;  cover  with  about  two 
quarts  of  water,  put  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  let  it  stew 
gently ;  when  cooked  down  about  half,  strain  the  liquor  off, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  skim  when  cool. 

TOAST. 

Toast  water  is  made  by  breaking  u})  some  pieces  of  toast 
into  a  bowl,  pouring  over  them  boiling  hot  water  :  when  cold 
strain  off';  add  a  little  sugar. 

Milk  toast  is  made  l)y  j>ouring  some  hot  milk  seasoned 
with  salt  and  thickened  with  a  little  corn  starch,  previously 
rnbbed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk,  over  some  slices  of 
toast  that  Imve  been  already   softened   by    the   hot   water. 

A  large  teaspoonful  of  currant  or  cranberry  jelly  or  bar- 
berry preserves  stirred  into  a  goblet  of  ice -water  makes  a 
very  palatable  drink  for  invalids. 

BITTKK.MII.K    WIIKY. 

Boil  together  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  an<l  one  pint  of  fresh 
buttermilk;  when  the  curd  begins  to  form,  strain  off  the 
liquor  or  whey  into  a  pitcher,  and  you  will  have  all  of  the 
most  nourishing  parts  of  both  milk  and  buttermilk.  Wine 
whey  is  made  by  putting  a  glass  of  wine  into  a  pint  of  scalding 
milk;  after  the  curd  is  forme<l,  strain  off"  the  whey  and 
sweeten. 

An  egg  iH'aten,  yolk  and  white  separately,  very  light, 
put  into  a  goblet,  sweetened  to  taste,  adding  about  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  any  li(juor,  is  very  nourishing;  or  fresh  sweet 
milk  or  cream  can  be  a<lded  to  the  egg. 


DISHES  FOR  INVALIDS.  213 


WAFERS. 

Mix  dry  tiour  to  a  stiff  dougli  witli  citlier  milk  or  wator; 
add  salt  and  roll  out  as  thin  as  possible;  cnt  into  round 
cakes  and  bake  very  qnickly. 

BI.AXC  MAXGE   FOR  IXVAI.IWS. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  ounce  of  isinglass,  peel  of  one 
lemon,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a  ])Ound  of  sugar; 
dissolve  in  a  qnart  of  warm  milk  an  ounce  of  tine  isinglass 
and  strain  it  through  double  muslin,  put  it  into  a  clean  stew- 
pan  with  the  sugar  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  cut  very  thin,  let  it 
warm  gently  until  the  tlavor  is  well  extracted  from  the  lemon, 
then  stir  it  very  gradually  to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs ;  return 
it  to  the  stew-pan,  set  it  on  the  stove  until  it  thickens,  stir- 
ring it  all  the  time ;  pour  it  into  a  bowl,  stir  it  until  nearly 
cold,  then  pour  it  into  a  mould.     Time,  fifteen  minutes. 

('HIC!KEX   CREAM. 

One  chicken,  a  pint  ami  a  half  of  water,  three  or  four 
spoonfuls  of  cream ;  mince,  then  pound  in  a  mortar  the 
breast  of  a  cold  roast  chicken,  stew  the  remainder,  with  all 
the  bones  broken,  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water  till  reduced 
to  half  a  pint,  rub  the  breast  through  a  sieve  into  the  half 
])int  of  gravy  strained  off",  mix  them  together  till  of  the  con- 
sistency of  cream;  when  taken  add  three  or  four  spoonfuls 
of  cream  and  warm  it  in  a  mug  In  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water.  Two  or  three  spoonfuls  may  be  taken  by  an  invalid 
who  cannot  take  animal  food.  Time,  three-quarters  of  an 
hour. 

wi:ke  soup. 

l>eat  up  an  egg,  well,  both  yolk  and  white  together,  boil  a 
eoffee-cuj)  of  white  wine  with  one-half  of  a  nutmeg  and  a 
little  ])owdere(i  cinnamon,  stir  the  well-beaten  egg  into  the 
wiiu'  while  boiling,  and  add  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  to  the 
wine  and  egg^  to  be  constantly  stirred  in  until  well  mixed; 
add  a  small  quantity  of  white  sugar  if  desired. 

Tlie  white  of  one  egg  beaten  up  in  ice-water  and  sweet- 
ened a  little,  is  very  palatable  and  nourishing  to  the  sick. 


214  MT  MOTHERS 8  COOK  BOOK. 


MII^K  PORRI»GE. 

One  pint,  of  milk  set  over  tlie  fire,  one  tablespoonfnl  of 
sifted  llonr,  wet  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk  or  water; 
when  the  milk  is  hot  stir  in  gradnally  the  tiour;  let  it  boil 
live  minutes;  add  salt  to  taste;  strain  l)efore  serving. 

ORUEI.. 

Gruel  can  be  made  of  either  corn  meal,  arrowroot  or  oat- 
meal. Take  about  one  tablesi)Oonful  of  either,  mix  smooth 
with  a  little  cold  water,  then  i)our  over  it  one  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  let  it  cook  on  the  stove  for  thirty  minutes,  stir- 
ring frequently,  add  a  little  salt,  if  it  thickens  too  mu<'h  add 
more  boiling  water;  some  like  a  little  sugar  added,  and  some 
a  little  nutmejr  or  a  little  milk  or  cream. 


INDEX. 


INTRODUCTORY 

LIST  OF  CONTRIBUTORS 

PREFACE 

TABLE  OF  MEASURES 

A  AVORD  ABOUT  COOKING. 


Page. 
3 
4 
5 
8 
9 


SOUPS. 


General  Directions 13 

Pea 14 

Brown 14 

Chicken  Gumbo 14 


Veal 

Black  Bean... 

Beef 

Bean 

Sour  Dock 

Mock  Turtle.. 


Gumbo .^. 

Mock    Oyster 18 

Pilaf— Turkish  Dish 19 

Turtle 19 


Black,  or  Turtle  Bean ID 

Tomato 19 

20 

Philadelphia  Pepper  Pot 20 

Potato 20 

Lobster go 

Beef   Bouilli 31 

Calf's   Head 21 

Green  Pea  Pod ...  21 

Mutton  Broth 22 

Soup  a  la  Reine 22 

Corn  Soup '32 

Corn  Chowder 22 

Dumplings 23 

Noodles ; 23 


FISH. 


To  BoilFish 24 

Fried   Fish 24 

Baked  Fish 24 

Fish 25 

Stewed  Fish 25 

Cusk  a  la  Creme 25 

Turbot  a  la  Creme 25 


Lobster  Farsee 2<> 

Fish  Pudding 26 

Fish  Sauce 20 

Fresh  Fish  Warmed  Over 2<> 

Cod  Fish 27 

Cod  Fish  Relish 37 

Cod  Fish  Balls 27 


Scalloped  Lobster 26       Fish  Balls 27 


OYSTERS. 


Raw  Oysters 28 

Fried  Oysters 28 

"       29 

Fricasseed  Oysters 29 

Stewed  Oysters 29 

30 

Scalloped  Oysters 29 


Scalloped  Oysters 30 

Oysters  on  Toast ;{o 

Oyster  Soup 30 

"         "        31 

Oyster  Pie 31 

Pickle  Oysters 31 

Oyster  and  Sweet  Bread  Pie 50 


236 


INDEX. 


MEATS. 


Boiled  Meats 33 

Roast  Beef 33 

Beef  Steak 33 

Yorkshire  Pinldliig 34 

Fillet  of  Veal 34 

Koast  Veal 34 

Force  Meat  Balls 33 

To  Boil  a  I^eg  of  Veal 35 

A'eal  Cutlet 33 

Haunch  of  Venison 33 

Venison  Steaks 36 

To  Corn  Beef 36 

Boiled  Corn    Beef 3« 

Itoiled  Smoked  Tongue 36 

Boiled  Mutton 3T 

<<))d  Saddle  of  Mutton 37 

Boiled  Lau»l>.. 38 

Hoast  Lamb 38 

Koast  Loin  of  Fork 38 

Spare  Rib  of  Pork  Roasted  38 

Sausage 38 

Sausage  3Ieat 39 

Boiled  Hani 3J» 

Kaked  Hani 39 

To  Broil  Ham 39 

Potted  Beef 40 

Beef  a  la  Mode 40 

Spiced  Beef 40 

Hash 41 

Meat  Pie 41 

To  warm  Cold  Meats 41 

Mystery 41 

ltecft>nielet 41 

Fried  Beef  Steak  or  Lamb  Chops  42 

Beef  Steak  Smothered  in  Onions  42 

IJeef  Pie .42 

Fri/./.led  Beef 42 

Mock  Duck 42 


Savory  Beef 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops 

Irish  Stew 

Liver  I>aub 

Calf  Liver 

Calf's  Head 

Sausage  Meat 

To  Dress  Beef  Kidney 

Fried  Kidney 

Stewed   Kidney 

Tripe 

Tripe  and  Oysters 

To  Fry  Tripe 

Ham  Sandwitches 

Knglish  Beef  and  Potato  Sand- 
wich  — 

How  to  Cook  a  Leg  of  Mutton.... 
Veal  Omelet 


Beef  Loaf. 

Welton  Veal 

Veal  Loaf 

Richamella 

Veal  FricaiHieau. 

Veal    Olives 

Stew  Pie  of  Veal.. 
Sweet  Breads 


Stewed  Sweet  Breads 

A  Pie  of  Sweet  Bread  and  Oys 

ters 

Welsh  Karebit.. 

£conomical    tJroquettes , 

Sweet  Bread  Cro<|uettes 

Ham  Toast , 

To  use  up  bits  of  Ham 

Pigs'  Feet  and  Kars  S«iused 

Pigs'  Feet 


43 
43 
43 
44 
44 
44 
45 
45 
45 
45 
46 
46 
46 
47 

47 
47 
47 
48 
48 
48 
48 
49 
49 
49 
50 
50 
52 
50 

50 
31 
31 
32 
32 
33 
53 
53 


<;KiVIKS    .ilVD   SAICES. 


Orawn   Butter 34 

Nice  for  tiravy  or  Soup 34 

Wine  Sauce  for  Mutton  or  Veni- 
son   •"'•'"' 


Oyster  .Sauce 

Celery  Sauce  for  Itoiled  Fowls. 

Mint  Sauce  for  Roast  Lamb 

Venison  <iravy 


POlI/rRY. 


Roast  Turkey 

Boiled  Turkey 

Roast  <Joose 

Koast  Plieasants,  Partridges.etc 


36 
57 


Roast  Duck... 
Boiled  Duck. 

Chickens 

Cliicken  Pie  . 


58 
58 
39 
59 


INDEX. 


237 


Quail  Pie 

Stewed  Cliicken  with  Oysters... 

Fried  Cliiclien 

Fricasseed   Chicken 

To  Cook  ail  Old  Chicken 

Chicken   Stufl'ed  with   Oysters. 

.Smothered    Cliicken 

Jellied  Chicken 

Jtoiied  Cliicken  

Snipe  and  Woodcocks 

Stuffed  Quails 


59 
60 
60 
60 
61 
61 
61 
62 
GZ 
6a 
63 


Small  Kirds  Broiled 

Potted  Pigeons 

Veal  or  Poultry  Cake 

Chicken  Clieese 

Chicken  Saute  a  la  Mange 

Chicken  or  Veal  Croquette."*.. 
Chicken  Croquettes 


Croquette  of  Fowl, 
Croquettes 


SAI.A1>S. 


For  Chiclieii  or   Lohster 67 

Salad   Dressing 67 

68 

Cliicken  Salad 67 

Dressing  for  Chicken  Salad 68 

Potato  Salad 68 

Mr.  T's  Lettuce  Dressing 69 

Lettuce  Salad 69 

Slaw   Dressing 69 


Slaw  l>ressing 

Cold  Slaw 

Holland  Herring  Salad 

Curry  PoAvder 

To  Mix  Mustard 

Horseradish  Sauce 

Sauce  Hollandaise  a  la  Maison 

Doree 

Sauce  Blanche 


63 
63 
64 
64 
64 
65 
65 
66 
65 
65 
66 


VEGETABl^ES. 


steam  Potatoes 

To  Boil  New  Potatoes 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Fried  Potatoes 

Saratoga  Potatoes 

To  Broil  Potatoes 

Potatoes  a  la  Creine....^ 

Potato  Scollops 

Potato  Cro<iuettes.. 

Potato  Kice 

To  Brown  I*otlltoe^;  Uiider  Meat.. 

Roast  .Sweet  Potatoes 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes 

Baked  Tomatoes 

Stuff<;d  Baked  Tomatoes 

Fried  Tomatoes 

.Stewed  Tomatoes 

Boiled  Cxreen  Corn 

Succotash  

Stewed  Green  Corn 

Corn  Cakes,  or  Mock  Oysters 

Lima  Beans 

Macaroni 

Italian  Macaroni 

Macaroni  a  la  Creine 

Koiled  Hominy 

Fried   Hominy 

Uomiuy  Croquettes 


73 
73 
73 

74 
74 
74 
74 
74 
74 


75 
76 
76 
76 
76 
77 
77 


77 
78 


Baked  Hominy 78 

Mashed  Carrots 78 

Boiled  Carrots 78 

Carrots  a  la  Flamade 78 

Fried  Kgg  Plant 78 

Baked  Egg  Plant 79 

Egg  Plant 79 

To  Boil   Kice 79 

Stewed  Onions 79 

Baked  Spanish  Onions 80 

Celery XO 

Celery  a  la  Creme 80 

Boiled  Spinach 80 

Spinach  a  la  Creme 80 

Salsify  or  Vegetahle  Oyster 81 

Fried  Salsify  or  Mock  Oysters 81 

Boiled  Par.sinps 81 

Fried  Parsnips 81 

Parsnips,  Boiled  and  Browned...  82 

Parsnips  Mashed 82 

Stewed  Parsnips 82 

Boiled  Cabbage 82 

Cabbage  with  Force  Meat  a  la 

Francaise 82 

Summer  Squash 83 

Baked  Squash 83 

Boiled  Turnip 83 

Turnips  in  White  Sauce 83 

Boiled  Beets 84 


238 


INDEX. 


Asparagus 84 

Asparagus  in  French  Rolls 84 

Asparagus  Pudding 84 

Boiled  Cauliflower 85 

Scalloped  Cauliflower 85 

Caulifl'r  with  Parmesan  Cheese..  85 


Baked  Beans 85 

To  Cook  String  Beans 86 

Connecticut  Baked  Beans 86 

Boiled  Green  Peas 86 

Stewed  Green  Peas 87 

Green  Peas  a  la  Francaise 87 


EGGS. 


To   keep    Eggs   throughout   the 

\vinter 88 

To  Preserve  Eggs 88 

To  Boil  Eggs 88 

Poached  Eggs 88 

Baked  Eggs 89 

Fried  Eggs 89 

Egg  Omelet 89 


Egg  Omelet 90 

A  Nice  Omelet  for  Breakfast 89 

Omelet 90 

Bread  Omelet 90 

Scrambled  Eggs 90 

Egg  Gems 91 

Mumbled  Eggs 91 

Eggs  on  Toast 91 


BREAD  AXI>  BISCUITS. 


Potato  Yeast    

93 

93 

Bread 

93 

Parker  House  Kolls 

Liglit  Rolls 

94 

94 

French  Rolls 

95 

95 

French  Biscuits 

95 

Coflee  Bread 

95 

Apple  or  Peach  Bread 

96 

Corn  Bread 

96 

Brown  Bread 

Graham  Bread 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

...      96 

.    ....      96 
97 

107 

108 

Buns 

97 

•'              101 

97 

Mrs.  R.'s  Kusks 

97 

Muttins 

97 

♦'        98 

<19 

Drop  Muffins 

98 

Rye   Muttins 

98 

I>elicate  Corn  Miiflins  

98 

Graham  Flour  Muffins 

Sour  Milk  Muffins 

98 

99 

Sally  Luii 

99 

Graham   Rolls 

HO 

"                 "       100 

Soda  Biscuit  . 

Cream  Biscuit 

Brighton  Biscuit 

Bolt   Biscuit 

100 

lOO 

lOO 

lOO 

Cakes  without  Eggs 

100 

Beat  Biscuit 100 

Dixie  Biscuit 101 

Milk  Biscuit 101 

Pop-Overs 101 

PuiTs  or  Pop-Overs 101 

Tea  Cake 102 

Soft  Cake 103 

Short  Cake 103 

Drop  Cakes 103 

Kirkwood   Puflfs 103 

Indian  Cup  Cake 103 

Corn  Cakes 103 

Wheat  Gems 103 

Spanish  Bun[| 103 

Center  Harbor  Cakes 103 

Annie's  Waffles 104 

Waffles 104 

Batter  Cakes 104 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes 104 

Buck^rheat  Cakes 105 

Squash  Griddle  Cakes 105 

Rice  Cakes 105 

Corn  Cakes 105 

Stale  Bread  Griddle  Cakes 105 

Mock  Buckwheat  Cakes 105 

Green  Corn  Griddle  Cakes 106 

Pea  Fritters 106 

Mrs.  Wilson's  Corn  Bread 106 

Mrs.  Stoddard's  Corn  Bread 106 

Bannock  106 

Blueberry  Cake 106 

Dutch  Toast 107 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 107 

AVhortleberry  Cake 107 

Steamed  Bi-own  Bread 108 

Boiled  Bread 108 


INDEX. 


239 


PUDDIXGS. 


Plum  PiuUliiig 109 

no 

"  "  Ill 

Steain  Plum  Pudding 109 

Baked  Suglish  Plum  Pudding...  110 
Black  Pudding 110 

"  "  131 

English  Plum  Pudding Ill 

Suet  Pudding Ill 

'♦  "  118 

Boiled  Suet  Pudding 112 

President's  Pudding 112 

Bread  Pudding 112 

Apple  Bread  Pudding 112 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding 113 

Pudding  Fruit 113 

Bread  Meringue 113 

Baked  Indian  Pudding 113 

"  "  "  127 

Baked  Indian  Pudding  No.  2 114 

Boiled  Indian  Pxidding 114 

Corn  Meal  Pudding 114 

Rice  Pudding 114 

Washington  Pudding 114 

A  Delicious  Rice  Pudding 115 

Tapioca  Pudding 115 

Iiemon  Tapioca  Pudding 115 

Tapioca  with  Apples 116 

Huntington  Pudding 116 

Blackherry  Tapioca 116 

Strawl>erry  Tapioca 116 

Pineapple  Tapioca 117 

Batter  Pudding 117 

Steamed  Batter  Pudding 117 

Nice  Batter  Pudding 117 

Boiled  Flour  Pudding 117 

Feather  Cake  Pudding 118 

Cottage  Pudding 118 

Puil"  Pudding 118 

German  Pufts 118 

Sponge  Pudding 118 

119 


Sunderland  Pudding 119 

Kiss  Pudding 119 

Corn  Starch  Pudding 119 

Corn  Starch  Pudding  Boiled 120 

Planchette  Pudding 120 

Chocolate  Pudding 120 

Dandy  Pudding 121 

Danish  Pudding 121 

Fritters  without  Milk 121 

Souffle  Pudding 121 

Gentleman's  Pudding 122 

Eve's  Pudding 122 

Apple  Meringue 122 

Jelley  Meringue  Pudding 122 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding 123 

Baked  Apple  Dumpling  Pud'ng    123 

Boiled  Apple  Dumpling 123 

Fruit  Pudding 124 

Whortleberry  Pudding 124 

Blackberry  Pudding 124 

Citron  Pudding 124 

Ginger  Pudding 124 

Fig  Pudding 124 

Boiled  liCmon  Pudding 125 

Iicmoii  Pudding 125 

Lemon  Rice  Pudding 125 

Orange  Pudding 125 

Orange  Marmalade  Pudding 126 

Cocoanut  Pudding 126 

Old  Fash'd  Baked  Rice  Pud'ng..   126 

Wedding  Cake  Pudding 126 

Boiled  Sally  Luun  Pudding 127 

Vermicelli  Pudding 127 

Apple  Fritters 137 

Corn  Pudding 127 

Carrot  Pudding 128 

Pudding  Sauce 128 

Sauce 128 

"      129 

Splendid   Pudding  Sauce 128 

Aunt  Mary's  Sauce 128 

Hard  Pudding  Sauce 129 


PIES. 


Extra  Nice 130 

Pastry 130 

Chop   Pastry 131 

Mince  Meat 131 

Mince  Pies 131 

Summer  Miin'e  Pies 131 

Cocoanut  Pie 131 


Cocoanut  Pie 132 

Raisin  Pies 132 

Mush  Pies ...    132 

Transparent  Pies 132 

Custard  Pie 132 

Cream  Pie 132 

Very  Fine  Cream  Pie 133 


240 


INDEX. 


l.einon  Pies 133 

"  •«     134 

Splendid  Leinon  Pies 133 

Lieinon  Clieese   Cakes 134 

Golden  Pie 134 

Orange  Pie 134 

Peach  Pie 135 

Peach   Cobbler 135 

Cranberry  Tart 135 

Celebrated  Rhubarb  Pie 135 

Rhubarb  Tart 135 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 13G 


Apple  Custard  Pie.... 136 

Apple   Slump 136 

Apple  Dowdy  137 

Connecticut  Apple  Pie 137 

Apple  Pie 137 

Spiced  Apple  Tarts 137 

Mock  Punipltin  Pie 137 

Pumpkin   Pie 138 

Cherry  Pie 138 

Green   Gooseberry  Tart 138 

Currant  and   Raspberry  Tart 138 


^ICE   DKSSERTS. 


Lenion  Butter 139 

Iledge-hog 139 

Snow  Pudding 139 

Cream  Snow 139 

Italian  Snow 140 

Apple  Snow ...    140 

Apple  Float 140 

Orange  Soulfle 140 

Omelet  Souffle 140 

«•  141 

Snow  Pudding 141 

Boiled  Custard 141 

Coftce  Custard 141 

Tapioca  Custard 141 

Alnion<l   Custard 143 

Cream   Chantilly 143 

Fine  Blanc  Mange 143 

Spanish  Blanc  Mange 143 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 143 

Ambrosia 143 

I<-c  Apples 144 


Charlotte  Russe 144 

To  Make  Whips 145 

Lemon  Creams 145 

Almond  Custards 145 

Englisli  Cream 145 

Velvet  Cream 145 

'•       146 

Italian  Cream 146 

Spanish  Cream 146 

"       149 

Isabella  Cream 147 

Orange  Cream 147 

Tapioca  Cream 147 

Chocoliite  Gelatine 147 

Kice  Cream 148 

Flummery 149 

Appples  witli  Rice 149 

Orange    Pudding 150 

Omelet  Souffle 150 

Caramel  Custard 150 

Friar's  Omelet 150 


C  OXFKC  TIOXERY. 


Candy 151 

Praulecns 151 

Sugar  Candy 151 

"     "    153 

Cretan)  Candy 151 

Wliite  Cream  Candy 151 

Caramels 153 


Taffy  Candy 153 

Chocolate  Caramels 158 

Peppermints  153 

Ice  Cream  Candy 153 

Cream   Chocolates 153 

Miss  Fletcher's  Candy 153 

French  Kisses 153 


CAKES. 


White Sp«»nge  or  Angels'  Food...    154 

Silver  Cake 1.15 

" 101 

Sprea<l  MoiintHin  Cake 155 

Ribbon  Cake 155 


Martha  Washington  Tea  Cake....    156 

Portsmouth  Itlack  Cake 156 

Fruit  Cake 156 

Black    Cake 156 

Sponge  Cake _..    157 


INDEX. 


241 


Bread   Cake 157 

Sponge  Cake 158 

Connecticut  r.oaf  Cake 158 

White    Fruit  Cake 158 

Chocolate  Cake 158 

'«  "     159 

White  Cake 159 

"  "      165 

Velvet  Cake 159 

Alniond  Cake 159 

Apple   Cake„ 160 

Spiced  Marble   Cake 160 

Marble  Cake 160 

"  "      161 

Chocolate  Marble  Cake 161 

Gold  Cake 163 

I>over  Cake 162 

Delicate  Cake 163 

Plain  Fruitcake 163 

Chocolate   Cream   Cake 163 

Lady  Cake 163 

Molasses  Plum  Cake 163 

Hickory  Nut   Cake 163 

Railroad  Cake 163 

Lunch  Cake  163 

Brides'   Cake  163 

Cornstarch   Cake 164 

Water  Pound  Cake 164 

L.AYER 

Dame  Durden  Cake 170 

Jelly  Roll 1~0 

Morentin  Cake 170 

Orange  Cake.. 171 

Lemon  Cake 171 

Gateau  Citron.,.. 171 

Poverty  Cake 171 

Cream  for  Cake  Filling 173 

Washington  Pie 173 

The  Queen  of  Cream  Pies 173 

Cream 1''3 

Roll   Cake 1'<'3 

White  Mountain  Cake 173 

Mountain  Cake 173 

Chocolate  Cake  173 

Cream  Cakes 174 

Boston  Cream  Cakes 174 

Lemon  or  Chocolate  Cake 174 

Mrs.  Gardiner's  White  Cake 175 

Dougliiiuts 175 

176 

Raised  Doughnuts 175 

Yankee  Doughnuts 176 

Crullers 176 

Mrs  Clark's  Crullers 177 

16 


Eggless  Cake 164 

Ten  Egg  Cake J64 

Cream  Cake 164 

Queen  Cake 164 

Fanny  Cake 164 

Cup  Cake 165 

Cider  Spice  Cake 165 

Spice  Cake 165 

Munson  Cake  165 

Shrewsbury  Cake 166 

W^arren  Cake 166 

Coffee  Cake. 166 

Lincoln  Cake 166 

Cocoanut   Cake 166 

Almond  Cake 167 

Soda  Cake 167 

Harrison  Cake 167 

Date  Cake 167 

Feather  Cake 167 

Lemon  Cake 167 

New  York  Ginger  Bread 168 

Carrie's  Ginger  Bread 168 

Ginger  Bread 168 

Soft  Ginger  Cake 168 

Crisp  Ginger  Bread 168 

Ginger  Crisps 169 

Ginger  Snaps 169 

CAKES. 

Jumbles 177 

Cookies 177 

Nice  Cookies  without  Eggs 177 

Vanilla  W^afers 177 

Mrs.  Robinson's  Cookies 178 

Lemon  Cookies 178 

Scotch  Cakes 178 

Cocoanut  Gems 178 

Macaroons 178 

Wafers I'jg 

Sugar  Cakes 179 

Cocoanut  Jumbles 179 

Sugar  Ginger  Snaps 179 

Molasses  Cookies 179 

My  Ginger  Snaps 179 

Ginger  Drops 180 

Molasses  Drop  Cake 180 

Hunting  Nuts  180 

Crispys 180 

Icing 180 

"       181 

Boiled   Icing. 180 

Chocolate  Cuke  Icing 181 

Cake  with  Cocoanut  Icing 181 


242 


INDEX. 


ICE   CREAM.  ETC. 


Ice  Creain 182 

French  Tee  Creain 183 

Italian   Creain 183 

Strawberry  Ice  Creain 183 


AValniit  Ice  Cream 183 

Biscuit  Glace 183 

Frozen  Piicldins 183 

Frozen    Readies 183 


PRESERVES  A^l>  CANNED  FRVITS. 


Preserved  (Juinces 184 

Preserved  Cliei-ries 185 

Green  Gage  Plums 185 

Preserved  Pears 185 

Citron  Melon  Preserves 186 

^Stevved  Cranberries 186 

Preserved  Peaches ■••    186 

Grape  I'reserves 186 

Preserved  Pliiuis 187 

Preserveil  Apples  for  Tea 187 

Good  Apple  Sauce 187 

(hab  Apple   Preserve 187 

Blackberry  Jam 187 

Preserved  Oranjjes 188 

To  I'reserve  Strawberries 188 

Preserved  Currants 188 

Convbi nation  Jam 188 

Conserves 188 

Hod^e    Po«lse 189 

Baked    Pears 18» 


Peach  Marmalade 189 

Peach  Butter 189 

Grape  Butter 190 

Pineapple  Brandy 190 

Brandy  Peaches 190 

Gelatine  Jelly 190 

Wine  Jelly 190 

Coftee  Jelly 191 

Chocolate  Maiijfe 191 

Strawberry,    Raspberry,   Black- 
berry Jelly 191 

Cider  Jelly 191 

Cranberry,  Grape,  Currant  Jelly   192 

Apple  Jelly 193 

To  can  Tomatoes  Whole 193 

Wine  Jelly 193 

Cannint;  Corn  and    Tomatoes 193 

Canned   Grapes 193 

Cann«'<l  Peac-hes 194 

Canned  0<'hre  and  Tomatoes 194 


PICKLES. 


Cucumber   Pickles 195 

Pickled   Cucumbers 196 

Tomato  Ket<liup 196 

304 

Mixed    Pickles 196 

Clu>pp<'(>   IMckles 197 

Spanisli    Pickles 197 

Western    Pickles 197 

IliKdons 198 

Caulillower 198 

Kipe  Cucumber  Pickles 198 

Foi-  Oiu-  Huu<lre<l   Martlnoes 198 

Pickb'd  Onions 199 

Mango    Pickles 199 

Chutney 199 

Yellow   Pickles 199 

Plum   Ketchup 300 

<"how  Chow  Pickle 300 

<•       301 


French  IMckle 300 

Fast-India  Pickles 301 

Picolily 301 

Pepper  Hash 301 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickles 303 

Pi<'kled  T«»matoes. 303 

Piikled    Peaches 303 

Pit'kled  Damsons 303 

Spice<l   Tomatoes  303 

Spiced  ("urrants 303 

Spiced  Peaches 303 

Pickled  Clierries  303 

.Madame  Suliit's  Sweet  Pickles...  203 

Cantalope  Pickles 304 

(iooseberry  Ketchup 304 

Cu<'umber  Ket«'hup 305 

Chili  Sau«-e 305 

Spanish  Tomato  Sauce 305 

Tomato  Sauce 30fl 


mnEX. 


2\?y 


UKI.^KS. 


Coffee  306 

Boiled  Coffee 30« 

l>i-il»  Coffee....'. 30(> 

ArtHicial  Cream 'iOG 

Tea 307 

Chocolate  307 

French  Chocolate 307 

Cherry  Wine 307 

Milk   ranch 307 


Blackberry  Cordial 30« 

Spice*!  Blackl>ei-i-y  Cordial  308 

Cream  Beer 308 

Raspberry  A'inegar 309 

Currant   Wine 309 

Tomato  Wine 309 

Mead 310 

Lemonade 3lo 


mSHES  FOR  i:^'VAI.IDS. 


Beef   Tea 311 

Mutton  Broth 311 

Chicken  Jelly 313 

Toast  313 

Buttermilk  Whey 313 

Wafers 313 


Blanc  Mange ai3 

Chicken  Cream j{i;$ 

Wine  Souj) ai;i 

Milk  Porridge ;>14 

(irnel 014 


MEDICAI.. 


Management  of  the  Sick  Room...  315 

I>iet -. 315 

<Jniet 315 

Ventilation  315 

Temperature 316 

Disinfectants  310 

Light 31« 

For  Sour  Stomach  and  to  Settle 

Stomach  After  Vomiting 317 

C.'mvnlsions 317 

.Cholera .*..  317 

Apoplexy 31S 

Epileptic  Fits 318 

Poison  Vine  Eruption 318 

Wounds 318 

Pains  in  any  part  of  the  body 319 

Rheumatism 319 

Earache 319 

For  Cuts 319 

To  Relieve  Dyspepsia 319 

Sprains  of  the  Wrist  and  Ankle.  319 

Emetic 319 

Night   Sweats 330 

AVeak  Eyes 330 

For  Cliills  and  Fever 330 


Hip  Disease  Cure 

For  .Swollen    Limbs.. 

Cough 

Croup 


!30 
!30 
1 30 
31 


Baby's  Sore  Mouth 3!>i 

Baby's  Sour  Stomach 331 

Tooth  Powder 3ai 

Tooth  Wash ;>a3 

Chapped  Hands 'i'i'i 

Cologne 333 

Poultice 333 

Mustard  Plaster 333 

"       333 

Remedy  for  Burns 333 

Ointment  for  Gathered  Breast...    334 

Camphor  Ice 334 

Cold  Cream 334 

Bay  Rum 334 

Spitting  Blood 334 

Chilblains  334 

Felon 335 

Sick   Headache 335 

For  Bruises 335 

Toothache 33.5 

Nausea  and  Dysentery 330 


MISCEIitAXEOlIS    RECEIPTS. 


To  Clean  Marble 337 

To  Polish  Clocks 337 


Furniture  Polish 33" 

Ants 33" 


244 


INDEX. 


Corns , ^^"^ 

Pretty  Plants  for  In-Doors 338 

Much  in  Little -A  Useful  Drug...    338 

Sweetening  Stone  Jars 339 

To  Remove  Blood  Stains 339 

To  Bake  Batter  Cikes 339 

Rancid  Butter 339 

To  Paint  a  Floor 330 

To  Take  Out  Ink 330 

To  Remove  Mildew  and  Cleanse 

Carpets. 330 


Cement 330 

Transparent  Cement 330 

Soft  Soap.    330 

To  Keep  Calico  from  Fading 331 

Receipt  for  Washing.... 331 

To  Wash  Silks 331 

Cleaning  Coat  Collars 331 

To  Wash  Woolens 333 

Soap 333 

For  Washing  Flannel  333 

To  Clean  Black  Crape 333 


y-luQH  I^.  ]4lLDRETH  pI^lNTlNQ  f  0 


BARR'S  HOUSE  FURNISHING  DEPARTMENT, 


3Btii:»C!3a::BPr  xjtobivsHjS. 


"The  New  Potato  Frye 
Refrigerators^ 
Ice  Chests. 
Water  Fillers, 
Kilclien  Tables, 
Turn-down  Tables, 
Market   liaskets. 
Serine  Balances. 
Stamped  Dish  Pans, 
Partition  Dish  Pans, 
MiU  Pa.,s, 
Round  Cake  Pans, 
Octagon  Cake  Pans, 
Fancy  Cake  Pans, 
Jelly  Cake  Pans, 
Sponge  Cake  Pans, 
l.ady  Fiug.r  Pans, 
Charlotte  Russe  Pane, 
Croquet  Moulds. 
Biscuil  Pans, 
Gem  Pans, 
PuH  Pans, 
Corn  Bread  Pans. 
French  Roll  Pans, 
Bread  Pans, 
Muffin  Pans, 
Pudding  Pans, 
Pot  Pie  Pans, 
Cnnkey  Pans, 
Oval  Scolloped  Patty  P.i 
Round  Scolloped  Patty  1 
Copper  Saucepans. 
Stove  Saucepans. 
Milk  Boilers, 
Rice  Boilers. 
Pudding  Boilers, 
Custard  Boilers, 
Farina  B..ilers, 
Ham  Boilers, 
Vegetable  Boilers, 
Fish  Boilers. 
Soup  Boilers. 
Range  Boilers, 
Egg  Boilers, 
Egg  Coddlers, 
CoHee  Boilers, 
Corn  Poppers, 
Tea  Kettles, 
Tea  Steepers, 
Tea  Pots, 
Preserving  Pans, 


Preserving  Spoons, 
Preserving  Skimmers, 
Meak  and  Chop  Broile 
Game  Broilers, 
Oyster  Broilers, 


The  Ne 


'  Sto 


!  Griddle 


_     II  Griddle  , 

Milk  Buckets, 

Milk  Cans, 

Milk  Strainers, 

Milk  Skimmers, 

Gfavy  SIra  ners, 

Basl.og  Spoons, 

Flesh  Forks, 

Cake  Turners. 

Skimmers, 
j  Ladles, 
I  l-tippers, 
ICullenders. 

Egg  Sheers, 
!  Egg  Tuners, 

Slaw  Cutters, 
j  Vegetable  Slicers, 

P.istry  Jiggers, 

Pastry  Knives, 

Larding  Needles, 

A  la  mode  Needles, 
'  Wooden  Ladles, 

Wooden  Spoons, 

Patalo  Mashers, 

Cake  Boxes, 

Bread  Boxes, 

Sail  Boxes, 

Willow  Knife  Baskets, 

Wooden  Knife  Trays, 

Japaoiied   Fork    and    Spoo 
Boxes, 

Knife  Cleaners. 

Knife  Board  and  Bricks, 

Japanned  Uredge  Boxes, 

Block  Tin  Dredge  Boxes, 

Japanned  Pepper  Boxes, 

Block  Tin  Pepper  Boxes, 

Nutmeg  Graters, 

Bread  Graters. 

Epicure  Broilers, 

Ice  Tongs, 

Alaska  Powder  for  Cleanin 
Paint. 

Freiicb  Vegetable  Cutters, 

English  Vegetable  Knives, 


[Plain  Pativ  Pans, 
iTatiy  Pans. 

Omelette  Pans. 

Fish  Pans, 

Fry  Pans, 
[Dripping  Pans. 

Pie  Plates, 
I  Pastry  or  Pie  Boards, 

Biscuit  Beaters, 

Rolling  Pins. 

Biscuit  Cutters, 

Cake  Cutlers, 

Paslry  Form  Cutters, 

Cream  Whips, 

Egg  Whips, 

Revolving  Egg  Beaters, 

Ice  Cream  Freezers, 

Ice  Cream  Spoons, 

Ice  Picks, 

Jellv  Moulds, 

Puddiug  .Moulds, 

Butler  Moulds, 

Butter  Ladles, 

Butter  Buckets, 

Apple  Parers, 

Peach  Parers, 

Potato  Parers, 

Cheiry  Stoners, 

Apple  Corers, 

Lemoo  Squeezers, 

Porcelain-lined  Saucepans, 

Tin-lined  Saucepans, 

Jellv  Strainers, 

Tea'  Strainers 

Bread  Bowls, 

Flo 

Flo 


ilh  Ti 


rSe 


and  Scoop  Com- 


Flour  and  Sugar  Scoops, 

Flour  Buckets, 
I  Flour  Barrel  Covers, 

Sugar  Sieves, 

Sugar  Bucke's, 

Sugar  Boxes, 
I  Coffee  Roasters, 

Coflee  Mills, 

Spice  Mills, 

Coffee  Caddies, 

Spice  Boxes, 

Coffee  Strainers, 

Plain  Tin  Coffee  Pot», 


Block  Tin  Coffee  Pots, 
Drip  Coffee  Pots, 
Naiioiial  Coffee  Pots. 
Coffee  Biggins. 
Meat  Cutters, 
Meat  Saws, 
Meat  Skewers, 
Meat  Boards, 
Meat  Pounders, 
Meat  Knives, 
Butcher  Knivai, 
Boning  Knives, 
Bread  Knives, 
HaDi  Saw  Knives, 
Chopping  Knives, 
Chopping  Trays, 
Rubber  Force  Cups. 
Horse  Radish  Graters. 
Tin  Funnels, 
Tin  Measures. 
Tin  Buckets,  all  sizes. 
Pint  and  Quart  Cup: 
Disb  Baskets,  lined 
Cup  Mops, 
Bottle  Washers, 
Cork  Pullers, 
Cork  Screws, 
Silver  Plate  Brushes, 
Silver  Polish.     Powder, 
Silver  Soap, 
Waffle  Irons. 
Kitchen  Knives  and  For 
Kitchen      Table      and 

Spoons, 
Stove  Cover  Lifiers, 
Kitchen  Shovels  and  To 
Kitchen  Knife  Stone, 
Towel  Rollers, 
Roach  Traps, 
Fly  Traps, 
Wash  Basins, 
Soap  Dishes. 
Chain  Pot  Cleaners, 
ice  Cream  Freezers, 
Churns. 

Patent  Roasting  Pan, 
Magic  Flour  Sifters, 
International  Coflee  Pot, 
Vienna  Coffee  Machine, 
Oil  Stones 


ngs 


.A-fcx-xousss   FOft.  z>xpa-xro'<3r-ft.ooiia. 


Ivory    Handle     Table    and 

Dessert  Knives, 
Ivory    Handle   Carvers   and 

Steels, 
Rubber   Handle   Table   and 

Dessert  Kuives. 
Rubber  Handle  Carvers  and 

Steels, 
Kuives  &  Forks  of  all  Kinds. 
Game  Carvers  and  Forks, 
Knife  and  Fork  Rests, 
Knife  Washers, 
Knife  Sharpeners, 
Silver-plated  Table  Forks, 
Silver-plated  Dessert  Forks, 
Silver-plated  Table    Spoons, 
Silver-plated  Dessert  apooiis 
Silver-plated  Tea  Spnous, 
Silver-plated  Sugar  Spoons, 
Silver-plated  Soup  Ladles, 
Silver-plated  Ovster  Ladles. 
Silver-plated  Gravy    Ladles, 
Silver-plated  Cream  Ladles, 
Silver-plated  Butter  Knives, 


Silve 

ten 


r-plated  Nutcracks, 
r-plated  Nutpicks, 
r-plated  Tea  Sets, 
r-plated  Breakfast  Cas 


Britannia  Tea  Sets, 
Britannia  Coffee  Pots, 
Britannia  Tea  Pols, 
Britannia  Sugar  Bowls, 
Britannia  Cream  Pitchers, 
Britannia  Water  Pitchers. 
Block  Tin  Chafing  Dishes, 
Block   Till   Cottee  and  Tea 
Urns, 


Bio 


1  Soup  Tureens, 


Crumb  Brushes  and  Trays, 

Butlers'  Trays  and  Stands, 

Waiters, 

Table  Mats, 

Silver-plated  Dinner  Casters 

Silver  plated  Pickle  Casti 

Silver-plated  Syrup  Pitcl 


Silver-plated  Cake  Baskets, 
Silver-plated  Ice  Pitchers, 
Silver-plated  Butter  Dishes, 
Silver-plated  Salvers. 
Silver-plated  Hand  Waiters. 
Silver-plated  Pressure  Bells, 
Silver-plated  Napkin  Rings, 
Sherwood's  Wire   Coffeepot 

Stands, 
Sherwood's  Wire  Cake  and 

Fruit  Baskets, 
Sherwood's  Wire    Breakfast 

Casters. 
Sherwood's       Wire       Dish 

Covers, 
Egg  Coddlers, 
Knife,     Fork      and 


Baskets 


Spoon 


Wi 


olers, 
iipagne  Openers, 


Tin  Can  Opene 
Bread  Knives, 
Waier  Coolers, 


Water  Pitchers, 
Emery  Knife  Sharpeners, 
Child's  Table  Trays, 
Fly  Brushes, 
Fire  Sets  and  Stands, 
Ilair  Floor  Brushes, 
Tooth  Pick.s. 
Tile  Coffee  Pot  Stands, 
Chamois  Skins, 
Wine  Coolers, 
Water  Filters, 
Cooler  Stands, 
Patent  Gotham  Water  Cool- 
Whisk  Broom  Holders, 
Glove  Boxes, 
Hdkchf  Boxes. 
Adjustable  Window  Screens 
Fly  Traps, 

Emery  Knife  Sharpeners, 
Tea  Trays, 
Bread  Trays, 


Brita 


I  Caste 


(Salad  Spoon 


WM.  BARR 


DRY 
GOODS 


CO. 


Sixth,  Olive  to  Locust  Street,  St,  Louis, 


Co. 


Ninth  Street  and  Washington  A\^e., 


m 


Hardware,  Cutlery 

AND  ^ 

HOUSE  FURNISHING  GOODS, 


AND     SEI.I,     TIIEM 

At  Such  Exceedingly  Low  Prices 

AS  TO. MAKE  IT  VERY  PROFITABLE  TO  THE  CUSTOMER. 

THKIK     ASSOKTMENT    OK 

House  Furnishing  Goods 

AND 

SILVER  PLATED  WARE 

IS  Tin:  LiRCiKST  EVKR  OFFEREO  I\  THE  M  EST. 


WE  INVITE  ATTENTION  TO  OUR 

SXJE»E:itB      STOOIi 

^=;^^  OF    ^  ^ 

DIAMONDS,    WATCHES, 
JEWELRY,  SILVERWARE, 
PLATEDWARE,  CUTLERY, 
MUSIC  BOXES 

«  Fine  Potteries, 

Which  we  offer  at  Lower  Prices  than 
any  Establishment  East  or  West. 

CALL,    EXAMINE    AND    BE    CONVINCED. 

MiMOD,  km  k  Co. 

Comer  Fourth  and  Locust  Streets. 

All   Goods    Marked   in    Plain  Figures,   and   but   One  Price. 

FINE    SILK    UMBBELIiAS,   CHOICE    STOCK,    LOW    PRICES. 


J,^MT/(% 


Call  or  Send  for  Catalogues  of 

Miscellaneous  Books, 
Medical  Books, 

Theological  Books, 
Catholic  liiterature, 
Scientific  and 

Agricultural  Books, 
Holiday  Gift  Books, 
£nglish  Books, 

Juvenile  Books, 

MANY  OF  THESE  BOOKS  ARE  OFFERED 

AT  ONE-HALF  THE  PUBLISHERS    PRICES. 

We  will  Mail  these  Catalog-ues  to  any  Address  when  Desii-ed. 

HUGH  R.  HILDRETH  PRINTING  CO. 

407  N.  Fourth  Street,  St.  Louis. 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  764  5 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


